^»^> 


'^-'■^. 


ASIA 


'I.'  *Jr'- 


T-'^  V-   


■  L>'*"i#» 


V^< 


n»r  - 


■'i:-!^.-^ 


'^  ^..^  -• 


t^'/;-^. 


,.  ■■•»  >^l 


'f  Hj«i: 


■m^lB 


Vf**;'-:^- 


BOUGHT  WITH  THE  INCOME 
FROM  THE 

SAGE   ENDOWMENT    FUND 

THE  GIFT  OF 

Henrg  M.  Sage 

1891 


CORNELL   UNIVERSITY   LIBRARY 


3   1924  070  622  075 


Cornell  University 
Library 


The  original  of  this  book  is  in 
the  Cornell  University  Library. 

There  are  no  known  copyright  restrictions  in 
the  United  States  on  the  use  of  the  text. 


http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924070622075 


ORIGINAL  SANSKRIT  TEXTS 

ON   THE 

OEIGIN   AND   HISTORY 

OP 

THE  PEOPLE  OF  INDIA, 

THEIR  EELIGION  AND  INSTITUTIONS. 

COLLECTED,    TRANSLATED,    AND    ILLUSTEATED, 

BY 

J.  MUIR,  D.C.L.,  LL.D.,  PH.D., 

CORRESPONDING  MEMBER  OP  THE   ROTAL  PRTTBBIAN  ACADEMY  OP  SCIENCES,   AND   OF   THE  AMERICAN 

ORIENTAL  SOCIETY,    HONORARY  MEMBER  OF  THE   GERMAN  ORIENTAL   SOCIETY,   AND 

FOREIGN   MEMBER  OF  THE  LEYDEN  LITERARY   SOCIETY. 


VOLUME  SECOND. 

ISOmSY    WHEIHEH    THE    HUfDTIS   AUE    OP    TEANS-HIMALATAN    OBIGIN,    AKI) 
AKIN  TO  THE  WESTEEN  BEANCHES  OP  THE  INBO-EUEOPEAN  EACE. 


SECOND  EDITION,  REVISED. 


§■ 


LONDON: 
TEtJBNEK  &  CO.,  8  and  60,  PATERNOSTEK  EOW. 

1871. 
fAU  rights  reserved.  J 

<D 


HERTFOED  : 

Peihtkd  bt  Stephen  Austin  ahd  Soss, 


PEEFACE  TO  THE  FIRST  EDITION; 


Mx  primary  object  in  this  volume,  as  in  its  predecessof, 
has  been  to  produce  a  work  which  may  assist  the  re- 
searches of  those  Hindus  who  desire  to  investigate 
critically  the  origin  and  history  of  their  nation,  and  of 
their  national  literature,  religion,  and  institutions ;  and 
may  facilitate  the  operations  of  those  European  teachers 
whose  business  it  is  to  communicate  to  the  Hindus  the 
results  of  modem  inquiry  on  the  various  subjects  here 
examined.^  The  hook  (as  will  at  once  be  apparent  to 
the  Oriental  scholar)  is,  for  the  most  part,  either  a  com- 
pilation, or,  at  the  least,  founded  on  the  labours  of 
others ;  but  while  my  principal  aim  has  been  to  furnish 
the  reader  with  a  summary  of  the  results  of  preceding 
inquiries,  my  plan  has,  at  the  same  time,  rendered  it 
necessary  for  me  occasionally  to  institute  fresh  researches 
in  different  directions  for  the  further  elucidation  of  par- 
ticular points  which  were  touched  upon  in  the  course 

1  [This  Preface  is  now  reprinted  with  hardly  any  alteration,  excepting 
such  as  has  been  rendered  necessary  by  the  difference  in  the  numbers  of 
the  pages  in  which  the  several  topics  are  treated,  and  by  some  additions 
and  omissions.] 

*  This  peculiarity  in  the  object  of  the  treatise  will  account  to  the  Euro- 
pean scholar  for  the  introduction  of  many  details  which  would  otherwise 
have  been  quite  superfluous. 


Vni  PREFACE  TO 

of  my  argument.  In  this  way  I  may  have  succeeded 
in  contributing  a  small  proportion  of  original  matter  to 
the  discussion  of  some  of  the  interesting  topics  which 
have  come  under  review. 

The  obligations  under  which  I  lie  to  the  different 
authors,  whose  labours  have  furnished  the  chief  mate- 
rials of  the  volume,  have  been,  in  most  instances,  so  fully 
acknowledged  in  detail  in  the  following  pages,  that  it 
is  not  necessary  for  me  to  allude  to  them  here  more  par- 
ticularly. I  must,  however,  refer  to  the  assistance  which 
I  have  derived  from  the  French  version  of  the  Eigveda 
by  M.  Langlois,  which,  with  his  index,  has  directed  my 
attention  to  various  important  passages  in  the  later 
books,  which  I  was  then  enabled  to  study  in  the  original. 

Though  a  small  portion  only  of  the  present  volume 
consists  of  "Sanskrit  texts,"  which  in  some  parts  are 
altogether  wanting,  and  in  others  but  thinly  scattered, 
(^apparent  rari  nantes  in  gurgite  vasto)  I  have  not  con- 
sidered it  necessary  to  abandon  the  old  title,  but  it  has 
been  slightly  modified. 

Although  some  idea  of  the  object  and  contents  of  the 
volume  may  be  gained  from  a  perusal  of  the  introduc- 
tory statement  of  its  plan  (in  pp.  1—3),  and  from  the 
table  at  the  close  of  this  Preface,  it  may  conduce  to  the 
convenience  of  those  readers  who,  before  entering  on  a 
perusal  of  the  work,  desire  to  obtain  a  more  precise  con- 
ception of  the  course  of  the  discussion,  and  of  the  process 
by  which  I  have  sought  to  establish  my  conclusions,  if 
I  subjoin  here  a  brief  concatenated  summary  of  the  prin- 
cipal topics  in  order. 

The  general  object  of  the  present  Part  is  to  prove 


THE  FIRST  EDITION.  IX 

that  the  Hindus  were  not  indigenous  in  India,  but  have 
immigrated  into  that  country  from  Central  Asia,  where 
their  ancestors  at  one  time  formed  one  community  with 
the  progenitors  of  the  Persians,  Greeks,  Eomans,  Ger- 
mans, etc.*  In  order  to  establish  this  result,  I  have 
sought  to  show  that  Sanskrit,  the  original  language  of 
the  Hindus,  exhibits  undeniable  marks  of  close  affinity 
to  the  ancient  languages  of  the  other  races  just  men- 
tioned; and  that  the  earliest  religion,  and  mythology 
also,  of  India  are  connected  with  those  of  Persia  by 
various  points  of  contact  and  resemblance.  Having  ad- 
duced evidence  on  both  these  heads,  and  argued  that 
these  facts  imply  a  common  origin  of  the  nations  in 
question,  and  their  subsequent  dispersion  from  one  com- 
mon centre  towards  the  different  regions  in  which  they 
ultimately  settled ;  I  endeavour  to  fortify  the  conclusions 
to  which  we  are  thus  conducted  by  demonstrating  that, 
in  the  earliest  ages  of  their  history,  the  ancestors  of  the 
Hindus  appear  to  have  occupied  only  the  north-western 
corner  of  Hindustan ;  and  that,  while  they  were  con- 
nected on  the  one  hand  by  affinities  of  language  and 
religion  with  the  nations  of  the  west,  they  were  on  the 
other  hand  distinguished,  both  by  language  and  by  insti- 
tutions, from  certain  other  tribes  with  whom  they  came 
into  collision  as  they  advanced  across  the  north  of  India, 
and  afterwards  diffused  themselves  to  the  south  of  the 
peninsula :  for  if  we  find  that  the  Hindus  originally  pos- 
sessed only  the  Panjab,  the  presumption  (derived  from 

^  [This  proposition  has  been  so  far  modified  in  the  second  edition  that 
I  now  only  insist  on  at  least  one  of  the  elements  in  the  ancestry  of  the 
Hindus  having  belonged  to  the  Indo-European  stock.] 


^  PREFACE  TO 

other  considerations)  that  they  immigrated  from  the 
north-west,  becomes  strengthened ;  and  if,  again,  on 
their  advance  to  the  south-east,  they  encountered  tribes 
with  a  different  language  and  religion,  already  in  occu- 
pation of  those  tracts,  the  probability  that  they  did  not 
grow  up  in  India,  alongside  of  these  alien  tribes,  acquires 
additional  force. 

In  order  to  obtain  a  basis  for  carrying  out  the  philo- 
logical portion  of  this  argument,  viz.,  for  comparing  the 
original  language  of  the  Hindus  with  those  of  the  Per- 
sians, Greeks, .  and  Latins,  it  became  necessary  for  me  to 
prove  that  the  Sanskrit,  which  is  now  a  learned  language 
only,  was  at  one  time  spoken  by  the  ancestors  of  the 
Hindus.  This  I  have  attempted  to  do  in  the  Pirst 
Chapter  (pp.  4—214),  by  showing  in  detail  that  the 
original  Sanskrit  idiom  has  undergone  a  long  series  of 
gradual  mutations,  of  which  we  now  see  the  ultimate 
result  in  the  modern  vernacular  dialects  of  the  north  of 
India.  The  method  which  I  have  adopted  to  exhibit 
this  has  been  to  begin  (Section  i.,  pp.  4—11)  with  the 
existing  spoken  dialects,  Urdu,  Hindi,  Mahratti,  etc., 
and  to  show  what  the  elements  are  of  which  they  are 
composed,  viz.,  (1)  pure  Sanskrit,  (2)  modified  Sanskrit, 
(3)  Desya  or  aboriginal  non-Sanskrit  words,  and  (4) 
words  derived  from  Arabic  and  Persian.  The  fourth 
element  is  the  latest  which  they  have  acquired,  and 
dates  only  from  the  Mahomedan  invasion;  while  the 
second  and  third  (in  a  more  or  less  dififerent  form)  are 
common  to  them  with  the  Prakrits,  or  older  vernacular 
dialects^  out  of  which  they  grew. 

In  the  succeeding  sections  (ii.— vii.,  pp.  11—128)  an 


THE  FIRST  EDITION.  XI 

account  is  glveu"  of  these  earlier  yernaculars,  viz.  (l)  the 
Prakrits,   of  wliicli  specimens  are  to  be  found  in  the 
different  Hindu  dramas,  and  which  seem  to  have  existed 
as  spoken  dialects,  at  least  from  the  commencement  of 
the  Christian  era,   until   they  became  merged  in  the 
modern  vernaculars;   (2)  the  Pali,  or  sacred  language 
of  the  Buddhist  books  of  Ceylon  and  Burmah,  which 
appears  to  represent  one  of  the  provincial  dialects  of 
northern  India  existing  at  the  time  when  Buddhism 
began  to  be  propagated  in  the  sixth  century  B.C.,  and 
exhibits  to  us  the  popular  speech  of  that  region  at  a 
somewhat  earlier  stage  than  the  dramatic  Prakrits  ;  (3) 
the    dialects   (nearly   contemporaneous   with   the  Pali) 
which  are  employed  in  the  rock  and  pillar  inscriptions 
of  Asoka;  and  (4)  the  singular  dialect  or  jargon  em- 
ployed in  the  Gathas  or  metrical  portions  of  the  Buddhist 
chronicles  of  northern  India,     In  this  portion  of  the 
work   some   comparative  tables  are   introduced,   which 
exhibit  (a)  the  relations  (i.e.  the  points  of  resemblance 
and  of   difference)    between    the    modern   vernaculars, 
Hindi,  and  Mahratti,  and  the  dramatic  Prakrits,  and 
show  how  the  two  former  have  been  formed  by  a  modifi- 
cation of  all  the  various  elements  of  the  latter,  just  as 
they  (the  older  Prakrits)  in  their  turn  have  sprung  up 
(if  we  except  a  small  non-Sanskritic  residuum)  from  the 
gradual  decomposition  of  the  Sanskrit;   (b)  the  forms 
which  are  common  to  the  dramatic  Prakrits,   and  the 
Pali,  as  well  as  those  points  in  which  they  vary,  and 
which  demonstrate  that  the  Pali  diverges  considerably 
less  from  the  Sanskrit  than  the  Prakrits  do,  and  must 
consequently  be  more  ancient  than  they;  and  (c)  the 


Xll 


PREFACE  TO 


relation  in  whicli  the  rock  inscriptions  ^and  to  the  Pali. 
In  Section  viii.  (pp.  128—144)  the  conclusion  is  drawn 
that,  as  the  vernacular  speech  of  India,  as  far  back  as 
■we  are  able  to  trace  it,  has  been  undergoing  a  continual 
series  of  mutations,  and  as  the  older  the  form  is  in 
which  we  find  it  existing,  the  nearer  it  approaches  to 
the  Sanskrit  in  its  words  and  its  grammatical  inflec- 
tions,— it  must  at  some  period  a  little  further  back 
have  entirely  merged  in  Sanskrit,  and  have  been  iden- 
tical with  it.  Thus  Sanskrit  having  been  once  the  same 
with  the  oldest  language  of  northern  India,  must  at  that 
period  have  been  a  vernacular  tongue.  After  some 
speculations  on  the  history  of  the  Sanskrit  language  and 
its  mutations,  some  further  arguments, — drawn  partly 
from  the  parallel  case  of  Latin  (which  though  once  a 
spoken  tongue,  was  ultimately  lost  in  its  derivative 
dialects,  Italian,  etc.),  and  partly  from  certain  pheno- 
mena in  Indian  literature,  or  notices  occurring  in  Indian 
authors,— are  adduced  in  Section  ix.  (pp.  144—160)  in 
support  of  the  position  that  Sanskrit  was  once  a  verna- 
cular language,  and  that  the  Yedic  hymns  were  com- 
posed in  the  same  dialect  which  their  authors  habitually 
spoke.  I  then  go  on  to  argue  further  (Section  x.,  pp. 
161 — 214)  that  as  Sanskrit  was  once  a  spoken  tongue, 
it  must  in  its  earlier  stages  have  been  exposed  to  all  the 
mutations  to  which  all  spoken  languages  are  subject. 
That  such  has  actually  been  the  case,  is  clear  from  a 
comparison  of  the  oldest  Sanskrit,  that  of  the  Vedic 
hymns,  with  the  form  which  it  took  in  the  later  litera- 
ture, and  which  (as  it  became  exempt  from  further 
modifications  by  ceasing  to  be  popularly  spoken)  it  has 


THE  FIRST  EDITION.  XIU 

continued  ever  after  to  retain.  As,  however,  the  dis- 
tinction which  is  here  drawn  between  the  older  and  the 
more  recent  literature  may  be  disputed  by  the  Hindu 
student,  I  have  considered  it  necessary  to  adduce  proof 
of  the  assertion  that  the  Vedic  hymns  are  the  oldest  of 
all  the  Indian  writings ;  and  with  this  view  to  ascend 
by  gradual  steps  from  the  most  recent  commentaries  on 
th«  Yeda,  through  the  Nirukta,  the  Brahmanas,  etc.,  to 
the  hymn-collections,  pointing  out  that  each  of  these 
classes  of  works  presupposes  one  of  the  others  to  have 
preceded  it  in  regular  order,  and  that  such  methods  were 
employed  by  the  commentators  for  the  interpretation  of 
the  hymns  as  to  prove  that  much  of  their  language  was 
already  obsolete  or  obscure,  and  that  consequently  their 
priority  in  time  to  the  very  oldest  of  their  expositors 
must  have  been  very  considerable.  To  complete  the 
survey  of  the  subject,  I  further  show  that  there  is  a 
difference  in  the  ages  of  the  several  Yedas  (the  Eik, 
Yajush,  and  Atharvan)  themselves,  as  well  as  between  the 
different  portions  of  each,  as  is  distinctly  evidenced  by 
their  contents  (see  also  pp.  446,  ff.).  The  superior  an- 
tiquity of  the  Yedas  to  the  other  Indian  writings  is  next 
proved  by  a  statement  of  the  differences  discoverable 
between  the  religious  systems  of  these  two  classes  of 
works,  the  nature-worship  of  the  Yedas  supplying  the 
original  germ  out  of  which  the  Puranic  mythology  was 
slowly  developed  with  innumerable  modifications.  The 
greater  age  of  the  Yedas  is  then  shown  by  comparing  a 
number  of  their  grammatical  forms  with  those  of  the 
later  Sanskrit.  Finally,  I  revert  to  the  conclusion  before 
indicated,  that  the  language  in  which  the  Yedic  hymns 


Xl'V'  PREFACE  TO 

were  composed  can  haye  been  no  other  than  the  ver- 
nacular speech  which  was  employed  by  the  rishis  and 
their  contemporaries,  as  it  is  quite  inconceivable  that  in 
that  early  age,  when  the  refinements  of  grammar  were 
unknown,  there  could  have  existed  any  learned  language 
distinct  from  the  ordinary  dialect  of  the  people. 

Having  thus  shown  cause  for  believing  that  Sanskrit, 
the  original  speech  of  the  early  Hindus  (or  Indo-Arians), 
was  at  one  time  a  spoken  language,  and  consequently 
liable,  like  all  other  spoken  languages,  to  continual 
mutations  in  its  earliest  ages,  and  having  by  this  means 
paved  the  way  for  proving  that  it  is  descended  from  one 
common  mother  with  the  ancient  languages  of  the  other 
Indo-European  races,  to  which  it  exhibits  the  most 
striking  family  resemblance  ; —  I  proceed,  in  the  Second 
Chapter  (pp.  215—357),  to  produce  the  evidence  which 
comparative  philology  furnishes  of  this  resemblance,  and 
to  argue  from  the  affinity  of  languages  a  community  of 
origin  between  the  different  nations  by  which  they  were 
spoken.  I  then  go  on  to  bring  forward  the  further 
grounds,  supplied  by  comparative  mythology  and  by 
other  considerations,  for  supposing  that  the  ancestors  of 
the  Hindus*  belonged  to  the  same  great  family  as  the 
Persians,  Greeks,  Eomans,  etc.,  which  had  its  original 
seats  in  Central  Asia,  and  that,  on  the  dispersion,  in 
various  directions,  of  the  different  branches  of  that 
ancient  family,  the  Indo-Arians  immigrated  into  Hindus- 
tan from  the  north-west.  The  following  are  some  of 
the  details  of  this  process  of  proof:  In  Section  i.  (pp. 
217—228),  a  few  simple  remarks  on  comparative  phUo- 

*  [See  note  3,  p.  ix.] 


THE  FIEST  EDITION.  XV 

logy  are  premised,  in  which  it  is  shown  how,  by  a  com- 
parison of  their  roots  and  structure,  languages  can  be 
distributed  into  different  families,  of  which  the  several 
members  haye  a  more  or  less  close  affinity  to  each  other, 
while  they  have  little  or  no  resemblance  to  the  members 
of  any  other  family.  This  is  illustrated  by  a  compara- 
tive table,  in  which  it  is  shown  that  while  Sanskrit  has 
in  many  of  its  words  a  strong  similarity  to  Persian,  it 
has  scarcely  any  to  Arabic;  and  by  some  other  par- 
ticulars. Section  ii.  (pp.  228—267)  supplies  detailed 
evidence  of  the  affinities  of  Sanskrit  with  the  Zend, 
Greek,  and  Latin,  consisting,  first,  of  comparative  lists 
of  words  belonging  to  those  languages  which  correspond 
with  each  other  both  in  sound  and  sense ;  and  secondly, 
of  illustrations  of  the  resemblances  between  those  lan- 
guages in  their  modes  of  inflection,  as  well  as  in  the 
formation  of  words.  As,  however,  the  mutual  differ- 
ences which  these  languages  also  exhibit,  might  be 
urged  as  disproving  the  inference  of  their  derivation 
from  a  common  source,  it  is  shown  how,  in  the  course 
of  time,  different  branches  of  the  same  original  tongue 
have  an  inevitable  tendency  to  diverge  more  and  more 
from  the  primitive  type,  both  by  modifying  their  old 
elements,  and  by  assimilating  new :  and  it  is  further 
pointed  out  that  it  is  precisely  those  parts  of  a  language 
which  are  the  most  primitive  and  essential  in  which  the 
different  Indo-European  tongues  coincide,  while  those 
in  which  they  differ  are  such  as  would  grow  up  after 
the  nations  which  spoke  them  had  been  separated,  and 
had  become  exposed  to  the  action  of  diverse  influences, 
physical,  intellectual,  and  moral.     But  as,  admitting  the 


^Vl  PREFACE  TO 

resemblances  between  these  languages,  a  Hindu  might  feel 
disposed  to  draw  the  conclusion  that  Sanskrit  is  the  source 
of  all  the  other  kindred  tongues,  instead  of  being  derived 
together  with  them  from  an  older  language,  the  common 
parent  of  them  all,— to  obviate  this  erroneous  inference, 
it  is  next  shown  that  the  whole  grammatical  character 
of  Greek  and  Latin  is  that  of  independent  languages; 
that  in  this  respect  they  differ  entirely  from  the  Indian 
Prakrits  (which  have  evidently  resulted  from  the  decom- 
position of  Sanskrit),  and  that  they  even  contain  various 
forms  which  are  older  than  those  of  the  Sanskrit ;  while 
the  greater  part  of  their  vocabulary  is  different.  The 
same  considerations  apply,  though  not  so  strongly,  to 
Zend.  In  Section  iii.  (pp.  267—278)  the  inference  is 
drawn  that  afl&nity  in  language  implies  affinity  in  race;^ 
and  that,  therefore,  the  ancestors  of  the  Hindus  must  at 
one  time  have  lived  in  the  same  country,  as  a  part  of 
one  and  the  same  community,  with  the  forefathers  of 
the  Persians,  Greeks,  and  Eoraans.  In  such  a  case  as 
is  here  supposed,  those  branches  of  the  original  nation 
which  separated  earliest  from  the  others,  would  in  after- 
times  exhibit  the  fewest  points  of  resemblance  in  lan- 
guage and  institutions  to  the  rest,  while  those  which 
remained  longest  together  would  show  in  all  respects 
the  closest  mutual  affinities.  In  Section  iv.  (pp.  279— 
286)  it  is  argued  that  there  is  no  objection^  arising 
from  physiological   considerations,    i.e.  from   colour   or 

5  [In  this  second  edition,  this  proposition  is  modified.  I  only  affirm 
now  that  affinity  in  language  affords  some  presumption  of  affinity  in  race.] 

*  [This  assertion  is  in  the  2nd  edition  changed  into  an  inquiry  whether 
there  is  any  objection.] 


THE  FIEST  EDITION.  XVU 

bodily  structure,  to  classing  th.e  Hindus  among  the 
Indo-European  races.  Section  v.  (pp.  287—300)  ex- 
hibits the  grounds  which  exist  for  supposing  that  the 
ancestors  of  the  Indians  and  Iranians  (or  Persians)  con- 
tinued to  form  one  community  after  the  other  kindred 
tribes  had  separated  from  them,  and  departed  to  distant 
regions.  These  grounds  are,  first,  the  closer  afl&nity 
which  subsists  between  Zend,  the  language  of  the 
ancient  Persians,  and  Sanskrit  (of  which  some  illustra- 
tions are  furnished) ;  secondly,  the  fact  that  both  nations 
in  former  times  applied  to  themselyes  the  appellation 
of  Arya;  and,  thirdly,  the  nearer  and  more  numerous 
coincidences  which  are  discoverable  between  the  early 
mythologies  of  the  two  peoples,  of  which  some  details 
are  adduced.  Prom  this  more  intimate  aflB.nity  between 
the  Indians  and  Persians,  independent  as  both  are  of 
each  other  in  their  origin  and  development  (see  also 
pp.  312—317),  a  strong  confirmation  is  derived  to  the 
general  conclusion  (deduced  mainly  from  language)  of 
the  common  origin  of  all  the  nations  called  Indo- 
European.  In  Section  vi.  (pp.  301—306)  the  theory 
of  Mr.  Curzon,  that  India  was  the  original  country  of 
the  Indo-European  races,  from  which  they  issued  to 
conquer,  occupy,  and  civilize  the  countries  lying  to  the 
north-west,  is  stated,  together  with  some  of  the  argu- 
ments by  which  he  supports  it.  The  remarks  of  Mr. 
Elphinstone,  who  leaves  it  undecided  whether  the 
Hindus  were  autochthonous  or  immigrant,  are  also 
quoted.  In  Section  vii.  (pp.  806—322)  I  cite  the 
opinions  of  Schlegel,   Lassen,  Benfey,  Miiller,  Weber, 

h 


XVIU  PEEf"ACE  TO 

Spiegel,  Eenan,  and  Pictet,  who  concur  in  the  conclu- 
sion that  the  cradle  of  the  Indo-European  race  must 
be  sought,  not  in  India,  but,  as  Schlegel,  Lassen,  and 
Pictet  argue,  in  some  central  tract,  from  -which  the  dif- 
ferent branches  of  this  great  family  could  most  easily 
have  diffused  themselves  towards  the  widely-separated 
countries  which  they  eventually  occupied;  a  condition 
which  would  not  be  fulfilled  by  supposing  a  remote  and 
southerly  region,  such  as  Hindustan,  to  be  the  point 
of  departure.  Some  of  these  writers  draw  the  same 
inference  from  the  relation  in  which  the  Indo-Arians 
stood  to  the  aboriginal  tribes  whom  they  encountered 
in  India.  In  opposition  to  Mr.  Curzon,  who  represents 
the  language  and  religion  of  India  as  the  sources  from 
which  those  of  all  the  other  kindred  races  issued.  Pro- 
fessor Spiegel  maintains  that  the  Iranian  language  and 
mythology,  though  owning  a  common  origin  with,  are  in 
their  development  perfectly  independent  of  those  of,  the 
Indians.  In  the  same  section  it  is  further  urged  that 
as  neither  the  languages  nor  the  mythology  of  the 
Greeks  and  Eomans  are  derived  from  those  of  the  Indo- 
Arians,  there  is  no  ground  for  supposing  that  the  former 
nations  emigrated  from  India  at  any  period  whatever. 
Section  viii.  (pp.  322—329)  contains  the  few  passages 
I  have  been  able  to  discover  in  the  Indian  authors  which 
may  be  supposed  to  embody  any  reference  (in  no  case, 
it  must  be  confessed,  other  than  a  very  obscure  one)  to 
the  trans-Himalayan  origin  of  their  ancestors.  The 
chief  of  these  are  the  interesting  paragraph  of  the 
Satapatha-brahmana,  which  contains  the  legend  of  the 


THE  FIRST  EDITION".  XIX 

Deluge  in  the  oldest  form  in  which,  it  occurs  in  any 
Sanskrit  work/  and  some  texts  relating  to  the  northerly- 
region  of  TJttara  Kuru,  the  Ottorocorras  of  Ptolemy. 
In  Section  ix.  (pp.  329—334)  I  have  quoted,  according 
to  the  versions  of  Spiegel  and  Haug,  the  first  chapter 
of  the  Yendidad,  which  contains  the  oldest  tradition  of 
the  Persians  relative  to  Airyana-vaejo,  the  supposed 
primeval  abode  of  their  forefathers.  Section  x.  (pp.  335- 
341)  discusses  the  route  by  which  the  Aryas  immi- 
grated into  India.'  Schlegel  and  Lassen  are  of  opinion 
that  they  must  have  penetrated  into  India  from  the  west 
by  the  route  of  Kabul  and  across  the  Indus.  Eoth  and 
Weber  also  regard  the  Panjab  as  the  earliest  seat  of  the 
Indo-Arians  in  Hindustan.  In  Section  xi.  (pp.  341— 
367)  I  have  endeavoured  to  show  by  quotations  from 
the  Yedas,  that  at  the  period  when  the  hymns  were 
composed,  the  Indians,  though  not  unacquainted  with 
the  central  provinces  of  northern  India,  were  most 
familiar  with  the  countries  bordering  on,  or  beyond,  the 
Indus,  and  the  north-western  parts  of  Hindustan  gene- 
rally. Prom  this  fact,  and  from  the  testimony  of  later 
writers  to  their  intercourse  with  tribes,  apparently  Arian 
in  descent  and  language,  residing  in  the  Panjab  and  on 
the  other  side  of  the  Indus,  I  derive  a  confirmation  of 
the  view  that  the  Hindus  entered  India  from  the  north- 
west. 

In  the  Third  Chapter  (pp.  358—444)  I  have  sought 

'  [This  passage  has  been  omitted  in  the  present  edition  for  the  reasons 
stated  in  note  96,  p.  323.] 

^  [A  sentence  referring  to  an  opinion  of  Professor  Benfey  subsequently 
altered,  is  here  omitted.]     . 


XX  PEEFACE  TO 

to  adduce  further  arguments  in  support  of  the  same  con- 
clusion, (1)  from  the  distinction  drawn  by  the  authors 
of  the  Vedic.  hymns  between  their  own  kinsmen,  the 
Aryas,  and  the  tribes  differing  from  them  in  complexion, 
customs,  and  religion,  whom  they  designate  as  Dasyus ; 

(2)  from  the  accounts  occurring  in  the  Brahmanas  and 
post-Yedic  writings,  of  the  gradual  advance  of  the  Aryas 
from  the  north-west  of  India  to  the  east  and  south ;  and 

(3)  from  the  well-established  fact  that  the  south-Indian 
languages  are  fundamentally  different  from  the  Sanskrit, 
and  imply  a  non-Arian  origin  in  the  people  by  whom 
they  were  originally  spoken.  Section  i.  (pp.  359—369) 
contains  a  selection  of  passages  from  the  Eigveda,  in 
which  the  Aryas  and  the  Dasyus  are  distinguished  from 
one  another,  and  reference  is  made  to  the  enmity  exist- 
ing between  the  two.  In  most  (or  at  least  some)  of 
these  passages,  it  appears,  human  enemies  and  not 
demons  must  be  intended  under  the  appellation  of 
Dasyus,  as  I  infer  both  from  the  tenor  of  the  texts 
themselves,  and  because  in  later  writings,  the  Aitareya- 
brahmana,  the  Institutes  of  Manu,  etc.,  this  word  is 
always  applied  to  barbarous  tribes.  Section  ii.  (pp.. 
369 — 396)  supplies  a  further  collection  of  Vedic  texts 
bearing  upon  the  relations  of  the  Aryas  and  Dasyus, 
and  the  characteristics  of  the  latter  as  degraded,  dark- 
complexioned,  irreligious,  neglecters  of  sacrifice,  etc. 
There  are,  indeed,  other  texts  in  which  these  Dasyus 
are  regarded  as  demons,  and  this  creates  a  diflB.culty. 
An  attempt  is  made  at  the  close  of  the  section  to  ex- 
plain, (1)  from  the  original  position  of  the  Aryas,  as  an 


THE  PIEST  EDITION.  XXI 

inTading  tribe  in  a  country  covered  by  forests,  and  from 
the  savage  character  of  the  aborigines,  as  well  as  (2) 
from,  the  lengthened  period  during  which  the  hymns 
continued  to  be  composed, — how  the  same  appellations 
and  epithets  might  come  to  be  applied  to  different 
classes  of  beings,  human,  ethereal,  and  demoniacal,  in- 
discriminately. In  Section  iii.  (pp.  397—405)  I  quote 
the  well-known  passage  from  Manu's  Institutes,  which 
adverts  to  the  superior  sanctity  of  the  country  on  the 
banks  of  the  Sarasvati  (which  is  in  consequence  pre- 
sumed to  have  been  for  some  time  the  seat  of  the  most 
distinguished  Indian  sages,  and  the  locality  where  the 
Hindu  institutions  were  chiefly  developed),  and  defines 
the  limits  of  the  several  provinces  of  Brahmanical  India, 
as  then  recognized.  I  next  adduce  a  highly  interesting 
legend  from  the  Satapatha-brahmana,  which  narrates 
ho^  the  sacred  fire  (typifying,  of  course,  the  sacrificial 
rites  of  the  Brahmans)  travelled  from  the  neighbourhood 
of  the  Sarasvati  eastward,  across  the  river  Sadanira  into 
Yideha,  or  north-Behar.  Section  iv.  (pp.  406—421) 
presents  a  selection  of  passages  from  the  great  epic 
poem,  the  Eamayana,  descriptive  of  the  Eakshasas  or 
gigantic  demons  by  whom  the  Brahman  settlers  in 
southern  India  were  oppressed  and  their  rites  ob- 
structed, and  whose  monarch  Eavana  was  vanquished 
and  slaiu  by  the  Indian  hero  Eama,  with  the  aid  of  an 
army  of  monkeys.  In  these  poetic  and  hyperbolical 
descriptions,  it  is  supposed  (by  some  that)  we  can  dis- 
cern the  indistinct  outlines  of  a  great  movement  of  the 
Aryas  from  the  Doab  southward  across  the  Yindhya 


^XU  PEEFACE  TO 

range,  and  their  conflicts  with  the  aboriginal  tribes  of 
the  Dekhan,  the  enemies  of  the  Brahmans  and  their 
institutions.  The  epithets  applied  to  the  Kakshasas  in 
the  Ramayana  correspond  in  many  respects,  it  is  ob- 
served, with  those  employed  in  the  Rigveda  to  charac- 
terize the  Dasyus,  Eakshasas,  and  Tatudhanas.  Section 
V.  (pp.  422—423)  contains  some  Hindu  traditions  re- 
garding the  tribes  in  the  south  of  the  peninsula,  which, 
however,  are  not  considered  to  throw  any  light  on  their 
real  origin.  Section  vi.  (pp.  423—438)  supplies  a 
variety  of  details,  derived  from  Mr.  A.  D.  Campbell's 
Telugu  Grammar  (including  the  important  note  by  Mr. 
F.  W.  Ellis),  and  Dr.  Caldwell's  Comparative  Grammar 
of  the  Dravidian  languages,  by  which  it  is  clearly 
shown  that  the  Tamil,  Telugu,  Malayalim,  and  Canarese 
tongues  (which  are  spoken  by  thirty-one  millions  of 
people),  though,  at  different  periods  since  the  occupation 
of  southern  India  by  the  Brahmans,  they  have  received 
a  large  infusion  of  Sanskrit  words,  are,  nevertheless, 
originally  and  fundamentally  quite  distinct  from,  and 
independent  of,  that  language,  and  that  Tamil  com- 
position in  particular  is  regarded  by  the  native  authors- 
as  pure  and  classical  in  proportion  to  its  freedom  from 
Sanskrit  words.  In  the  vii*'',  and  concluding  Section 
(pp.  438—444),  the  results  of  the  preceding  sections 
are  summed  up.  From  the  fact  (established  both  by 
philological  considerations,  and  by  the  testimony  of  the 
south-Indian  grammarians)  that  the  Dravidian  languages 
are  essentially  distinct  from  Sanskrit,  it  is  argued  that 
the  people  by  whom  the  former  class  of  languages  were 


THE  FIEST  EDITION.  XXUl 

spoken  originally  {i.e.  before  the  Bralimamcal  invasion 
of  the  Dekhan)  must  have  belonged  to  a  race  which  had 
no  affinity  to  the  Sanskrit-speaking  Aryas;  and  could 
not,  therefore,  as  Manu  asserts,  have  been  degraded 
Eshatriyas.  I  then  endeavour  to  show  how  the  results 
obtained  in  this  Chapter,  viz,,  (1)  that  the  Aryas,  when 
living  in  the  Panjab,  came  into  conflict  with  an  alien 
race  called  Dasyus ;  (2)  that  the  Aryas  can  be  shown 
from  their  own  books  to  have  at  first  occupied  only  the 
north-west  of  India  and  then  to  have  advanced  gradually 
to  the  east  and  south,  and  last  of  all  to  have  crossed 
the  Yindhya  range  into  the  Dekhan  ;  and  (3)  that  the 
original  languages  of  the  south  of  the  peninsula  are 
distinct  from  Sanskrit, — how,  I  say,  these  results  har- 
monize with,  or  corroborate,  the  theory  that  the  Hindus, 
or  Indo-Arians,  are  not  autochthonous,  but  immigrated 
into  Hindustan  from  the  north-west.^ 

The  Appendix'"  (pp.  445-488),  and  the  "Additions 

and  Corrections"  contain  some  further  illustrations  of 

the  subjects  discussed  in  the  body  of  the  work,  and  in  a 

few  cases  supply  some  modifications  of  the  text  which 

^  closer  research  has  rendered  necessary. 

In  the  notes  towards  the  close  of  the  Yolume,  and  in 
the  Appendices,  the  Sanskrit  passages  have  been  printed 
in  the  Italic  character."  The  system  I  have  followed 
is  nearly  that  of  Sir  W.  Jones.  The  distinctions  be- 
tween some  similar  letters  have  not  always  been  very 

'  [See  note  3,  p.  ix.] 

'»  [Portions  of  the  Appendix  and  additions  have  now  been  incorporated 
in  the  earlier  part  of  the  volume.] 

"  [In  the  first  edition  the  Sanskrit  was  printed  in  the  Nagari  character 
throughout  the  greater  part  of  the  volume.] 


XXIV  PREFACE  TO 

carefully  indicated;  but  the  Sanskrit  scholar  will  hare 
no  difficulty  in  determining  .the  words  which  are  in- 
tended. 

Nearly  all  the  Sanskrit  texts  in  this  Yolume  have 
been  taken  from  printed  editions.  The  quotations  from 
those  parts  of  the  Eigveda  Which  have  not  yet  appeared 
in  Professor  MuUer's  edition,  have  been  copied  from 
the  MS.  copy  in  my  possession,  alluded  to  in  the  Preface 
to  the  Pirst  Yolume.  The  quotations  from  Durgacharya, 
in  pp.  166  f.  and  173,  have  been  derived  from  a  MS. 
belonging  to  the  East  India  House.  That  in  p.  204 
was,  I  believe,  extracted  from  a  MS.  in  the  Library  of 
the  Asiatic  Society  in  Calcutta.  The  two  passages  from 
Bhaskara  Acharya,  pp.  161  and  178,  were  obtained  from 
Pandit  Bapu  Deva  of  the  Benares  College. 

I  owe  it  to  the  kindness  of  Professor  Goldstiicker 
that  I  am  able  to  adduce  the  extracts  from  the  Nyaya 
mala  visiara,  in  pp.  63  and  179. 

The  work  of  M.  Vivien  de  Saint-Martin,  entitled : 
''Etude  sur  la  G6ographie  et  les  Populations  Primitives 
du  Nordouest  de  I'Inde  d'apres  les  Hymnes  Vediques" 
(which  discusses  many  of  the  subjects  handled  in  the 
present  volume),  has  only  now  come  into  my  hands,  as 
the  last  sheet,  containing  part  of  the  Appendix  and  the 
"Additions  and  Corrections,"  is  passing  through  the 
press. 

The  results  at  which  this  author  has  arrived  in  his 
valuable  and  ingenious  dissertation,  in  regard  to  the 
origin  of  the  Axyas,  their  immigration  into  India,  and 
the  direction  of  their  movements  within  that  country, 


THE  FIRST  EDITION.  XXV 

eorrespoiid,  precisely  -with  those  which.  I  myself  had 
reached.  His  views  on  some  points  of  detail  on  which 
I  had  adopted  a  different  opinion,  tell  even  more  strongly 
than  my  own  in  favour  of  the  general  conclusions  in 
which  we  both  eoiacide."* 


^  I  allude  to  his  conclusion  that  the  Sarayu  referred  to  in  the  Veda  was 
a  river  in  the  Fanjab  (in  support  of  which  he  refers  to  Bumouf  s  Bhag. 
Pur.  foKo  ed.  p.  ii.  455) ;  and  that  the  country  of  the  Kikatas  must,  most 
probably,  have  been  in  Eos'ala  or  Audh,  and  not  in  Magadha,  or  South 
Behar. 

I  am  happy  to  learn  from  M.  de  Saint-Martin's  work  that  he  intends 
to  prosecute  further  his  researches  into  the  ethnography  of  India. 

[Eddibuegh,  I860.] 


PREFACE  TO  THE  SECOM  EDITION. 


In  preparing  this  edition  for  the  press,  I  am  reminded 
how  much  this  volume  is  indebted  to  the  labours  of  the 
different  authors  whose  works  are  quoted  in  it,  viz., 
Burnouf,  Lassen,  Cowell,  Campbell,  Ellis,  Caldwell, 
Clough,  Tumour,  FausboU,  Eajendralal  Mitra,  H.  H. 
Wilson,  Weber,  Miiller,  Goldstiicker,  Eoth,  Benfey, 
Bopp,  Kuhn,  A.  W.  Schlegel,  Piotet,  Spiegel,  Haug, 
Whitney,  Windischmann,  Langlois,  Eenan,  Curzon,  and 
Elphinstone. 

To  these  names  I  have  now  to  add  those  of  Messrs. 
Beames,  Childers,  D'Alwis,  Aufrecht,  Curtius,  VuUers, 
Schleicher,  Tick,  Crawfurd,  Huxley,  and  G.  Eawlinson, 
from  whose  writings  or  communications  I  have  derived 
valuable  assistance  in  augmenting  my  materials,  or  re- 
vising different  portions  of  the  work.  My  obligations 
to  these  scholars  are  acknowledged  in  the  text. 

The  improvements  which  have  been  introduced  in  this 
edition  are  principally  the  following  :  the  Comparative 
Tables  of  Words  in  pp.  15,  ff. ;  76,  ff. ;  221,  ff. ;  230,  ff ; 
and  287,  ff. ;  as  well  as  the  statements  of  Gatha  and 
Vedie  forms  in  pp.  117,  ff.,  and  205,  ff. ;  have  been 
greatly  enlarged. 


XXVm  PREFACE  TO  THE  SECOND  EDITION. 

My  conclusions  regarding  tlie  value  of  affinity  in 
language  as  a  proof  of  affinity  in  race,  and  the  effects  of 
climate  upon  colour,  have  been  so  far  modified  that  I  no 
longer  venture  to  pronounce  positively  that  the  Brah- 
manical  Indians  are  of  pure  Indo-European  descent  ; 
but  leave  it  an  open  question  whether  the  blood  of 
their  Arian  ancestors  may  not  on  their  immigration 
into  India  have  been  commingled  with  that  of  darker 
tribes  previously  in  occupation  of  the  country. 

In  the  Appendix,  Note  B,  pp.  446,  &.,  reference  is 
made  to  a  recent  paper  by  Prof.  Kern,  in  which  he 
alleges  the  insufficiency  of  the  proofs  heretofore  adduced 
of  the  posteriority  of  the  Atharvaveda  to  the  Eigveda; 
and  more  detailed  grounds  in  support  of  that  opinion  are 
adduced.  Some  remarks  are  also  made  in  pp.  454,  ff. 
on  the  views  recently  expressed  by  the  same  writer,  and 
by  Prof.  Haug,  on  the  antiquity  of  the  caste- system. 

The  Appendix  and  the  Additional  Notes  contain  fur- 
ther illustrations,  or  corrections,  of  various  statements  in 
the  text. 

The  volume  has,  further,  been  revised  throughout; 
but,  with  the  exception  of  the  alterations  which  have 
been  just  specified,  it  remains  essentially  the  same  as 
before. 

J.  M. 

Edinbtjegh,  1871. 


CONTENTS. 


PAGES. 

vii — XXV.  Peepacb  to  the  Fzest  Editioit. 

xxvii. — xxviii.  Peefacb  to  the  Second  Ebitioit. 

xxix — xxxii.  Contents. 

xxxii.  Eeeata  et  Cobeigenda. 

1 — 3.  Plan  of  the  Peesent  Yoitjme. 


4—214.     CHAPTEE  I.     The   Langtjages   op   Noetheen   India  : 

THEIE   HiSTOET   AND    EeLAIIONS. 

4 —  11.     Sect.  I.     The  North-Indian  dialects,  ancient  and  modern. 
11 —  33.     Sect.  II.     The  Prakrit  dialects  employed  in  the  dramas. 
34 —  43.     Sect.  III.     On    the    origin  and   vernacular  use   of  the 

scenic  dialects. 
43 —  53.     Sect.  IV.      Views   of  the   Indian    grammarians  on  the 
relation  of  the  Prakrits  to  Sanskrit,  and  on  the  other 
elements  in  their  composition. 
53 — 103.     Sect.  V.     The   Pali,  and  its  relations   to    Sanskrit  and 
Prakrit. 
104 — 114.     Sect.  VI.     The  dialects  of  the  rock  and  pillar  inscriptions 

of  A^oka. 
115—128.     Sect.  VII.     The  dialect  of  the  Buddhist  Gathas,  audits 
relation  to  the  Pali  :  Summary  of  the  results  of  this  and 
the  preceding  section. 
128 — 144.     Sect.  VIII.     On  the  original  use  of  Sanskrit  as  a  ver- 
nacular tongue;  on  the  manner  in. which  the  Prakrits 
arose  out  of  it,  and  on  the  period  of  their  formation : 
views  of  Professors  Weber,  Aufrecht,  Lassen,  and  Benfey. 
144 — 160.     Sect.  IX.    Eeasons  for  supposing  that  the  Sanskrit  was 
originally  a  spoken  language. 


XXX  CONTENTS. 

161 — 214.  Sect.  X.  Various  stages  of  Sanskrit  literature,  and  the 
different  forms  in  which  they  exhibit  the  Sanskrit 
language :  the  later  Vedio  commentators :  earlier  ex- 
pounders :  the  Nirutta :  the  Brahmanas :  the  Vedic 
hymns :  imperfect  comprehension  of  them  in  later  times 
from  changes  in  the  language  :  the  hymns  composed  in 
the  vernacular  idiom  of  their  age. 


215 — 357.  CHAPTEE  II.  ApinfiirES  or  the  Indians  with  the 
Peesiajts,  Geeeks  and  Romans,  and  Dbeivation  of  all 

THESE   nations   EKOM    CeNTBAI   AsIA. 

217 — 228.  Sect.  I.  Introductory  remarks  on  comparative  philology  : 
affinities  of  the  Sanskrit  and  Persian  with  each  other. 

228 — 267.  Sect.  II.  Detailed  illustrations  of  the  affinities  of  Sanskrit 
with  the  Zend,  Greek,  and  Latin  languages :  the  last 
three  languages  not  derived  from  Sanskrit. 

267 — 278.  Sect.  III.  That  afinity  in  language  affords  some  pre- 
sumption of  affinity  in  race :  modes  in  which  a  greater 
or  less  diversity  of  language  and  institutions  would 
arise  in  different  branches  of  the  same  stock :  Central 
Asia  the  birth-place  of  the  Aryas. 

279 — 286.  Sect.  IV.  "Whether  there  is  any  objection  arising  from 
physiological  considerations,  to  classing  the  Indians 
among  the  Indo-European  races. 

287 — 300.  Sect.  V.  Eeasons  for  supposing  the  Indians  and  Persians 
in  particular  to  have  had  a  common  origin. 

301 — 306.  Sect.  VI.  Was  India  the  primitive  country  of  the  Aryas 
and  Indo-European  races  ?  ■ 

306 — 322.  Sect.  VII.  Central  Asia  the  cradle  of  the  Arians :  opinions 
of  Schlegel,  Lassen,  Benfey,  Miiller,  Spiegel,  Eenan,  and 
Pictet. 

322 — 329.  Sect.  VIII.  On  the  national  traditions  of  the  Indians  re- 
garding their  own  original  country. 

329 — 334.  Sect.  IX.  Whether  any  tradition  regarding  the  earliest 
abodes  of  the  Arian  race  is  contained  in  the  First  Fargard 
of  the  Vendidad. 


CONTENTS.  xxxi 

335 — 341.  Sect.  X.  What  was  the  route  by  whioli  the  Aryas  pene- 
trated into  India  ? 

341 — 357.  Sect.  XI.  The  immigration  of  the  Indo-Arians  from  the 
north-west  rendered  probable  by  the  tenor  of  the  Vedic 
hymns. 

358 — 444.  CHAPTER  III.    The  Aeians  in  India  :  theie  Adtance 
TO  THE  East  and  South. 

359 — 369.     Sect.  I.   Distinction  drawn  between  the  Aryas  and  Dasyus 

in  the  Eigveda. 
369 — 396.     Sect.  II.     Additional  Vedic  texts  bearing  on  the  relations 

of  the  Aryas  and  Dasyus. 
397 — 405.     Sect.  III.     The  Arians  on  the  Sarasvati,  and  their  dif- 
fusion eastward  and  southward  from  that  point. 
405 — 421.     Sect.  IV.     Advance  of  the  Arians  from  the  Doab  across 

the  Vindhya  mountains ;  and  their  conflicts  with  the 

aboriginal  tribes  of  the  Dekhan. 
422 — 423.     Sect.  V.     Indian  traditions  regarding  the   tribes  in  the 

south  of  the  peninsula. 
423 — 438.     Sect.  VI.     Languages  of  the  south  of  India,  and  their 

fundamental  difference  from  Sanskrit. 
438 — 444.     Sect.  VII.  Eesults  deducible  from  the  preceding  sections. 

445—488.    APPENDIX. 

446  Note  A.  On  the  phrase  "  Trayi  Vidya." 

446 — 466.  Note  B.  Further  grounds  in  support  of  the  position  that 
the  Atharvaveda  is  more  recent  than  the  Eigveda ;  with 
some  considerations  in  answer  to  the  theory  of  Professors 
Kern  and  Haug,  that  the  caste-system  is  more  ancient 
than  the  Eigveda. 

466 — 467.  Note  C.  Quotation  from  Schlegel's  Essai  de  I'origine 
des  Hindous. 

467 — 468.  Note  D.  Quotation  from  the  Eev.  G.  C.  Geldart's  paper 
"Language  no  Test  of  Eace." 

468 — 469.     Note  D*.     Spiegel  on  the  old  Iranian  Dialects. 
469         Note  E.     Quotation  from  Eigveda,  ix.  113. 


xxxu  CONTENTS. 

469—476.    Note  F.     Quotation  from  Windisctmann's  Essay,  Feber 

den  Somaoultus  der  Arier. 
476—477.     Note  G.     Prof.  Cowell's  note  in  his  edition  of  Elphin- 

stone's  History  of  India  on  that  author's  views  regarding 

the  origin  of  the  Hindus. 
477 — 478.     Note  H.     Quotation  from  Spiegel  on  the  question  of  the 

separation  of  the  Iranians  and  Indians. 
478 — 479.     Note  I.     Quotation  from  Spiegel  on  the  grounds  of  the 

separation. 
479  Note  J.     Quotation  from  Ptolemy. 

480 — 481.     Note  K.     On  the  earliest  abodes  of  the  Arians. 
482 — 484.     Note  L.     Quotations  from  the  Mahabharata  and  Eaja- 

taranginl  regarding  the  tribes  of  the  Panjab. 

484  Note  M.     Quotations  from  Lassen  and  Wilson. 

485  Note  N.     Quotation  from  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  xiii. 

8,  1,  5. 
485 — 488.     Note  0.    Stevenson  and  Caldwell  on  the  different  elements 
of  the  Indian  population. 

489 — 493.     AnnrrioiTAL  Notes. 
494 — 499.    Meibicai  Tbanslations. 
501 — 512.     Index. 


ERRATA  ET  CORRIGENDA. 


Page    17,  line  15,  for  "rfafeWae"  read  "  daliddadae." 
„      76,  line  12,  for  "  Saptasalaka  "  read  "  Saptaiataka." 
„      9i,'&Dsl'!,ioi  "baliddo"  read  ''■laladdo'' 

„  192,  4  lines  from  the  bottom,  for  "  Panigins  "  read  "  Paingins." 

„  259,  last  line, /or  "  Mahabbasliya  "  read  "  Mahabhashya." 

„  332,  note  109,  line  2,  for  "Hyreania"  read  "Hyrcania." 

„  360,  note  3,  line  5,  for  "viii.  226,"  read  "yiii.  22,  6.'' 

„  361,  7  lines  from  foot,  for  "Vrihad"  read  "Brihai"  . 

„  368,  line  29,  for  "xviii.  8,  22,"  read  "xviii.  2,  28." 

„  370,  note  30,  line  3,  for  "  Valakhilya  "  read  "  Valakhilya." 

„  385,  line  17,  and  note  63,  line  1,  for  "  Arjuni"  read  "  Arjuna," 
„      „    note  3,  line  6,  for  "i.  103,  3,"  read  "i.  104,  3." 

Note. — Page  89,  note,  line  3,  Prof.  Weber  suggests  that  "kadrano"  in  the 
works  quoted  is  no  doubt  a  misprint  for  "  kdino." 


ORIGmAL  SAIfSKIlIT  TEXTS. 


"VOLXJMIE    SECOND. 


PLAN  OF  THE  PEESENT  VOLUME. 

In  the  first  volume  of  this  work  I  have  sought  to  collect,  translate, 
and  illustrate  (1)  the  mythical  accounts  of  the  creation  of  man  and 
of  the  origin  of  caste^  which  are  to  be  found  in  the  Yedic  hymns,  in 
the  Brahmanas  and  their  appendages,  in  the  Eamayana,  the  Mahabha- 
rata  and  the  Puranas;  (2)  the  texts  of  the  Veda,  and  Brahmanas, 
which  speak  of  Manu  as  the  progenitor  of  the  Aryan  Indians ;  (3)  the 
passages  of  the  Eig  and  Atharva  Vedas  which  throw  light  upon  the 
mutual  relations  of  the  several  classes  of  Indian  society  at  the  time  when 
those  works  were  composed ;  (4)  the  portions  of  the  Brahmanas,  or  of 
later  books  which  relate  the  struggles  for  pre-eminence  which  appear 
to  have  occurred  between  the  Brahmans  and  Kshattriyas  in  the  early 
ages  of  Indian  history ;  (5)  the  opinions  of  Manu  and  the  authors  of 
the  Mahabharata  and  Puranas  regarding  the  origin  of  the  alien  tribes 
dwelling  within,  or  adjacent  to,  the  boundaries  of  Hindustan ;  and 
(6)  the  Puranic  descriptions  of  the  parts  of  the  earth  exterior  to 
Bharatavarsha  or  India :  and  as  a  result  of  the  whole  inquiry  I  found 
that  the  sacred  books  of  the  Hindus  contain  no  uniform  or  consistent 
account  of  the  origin  of  Castes ;  and  that  in  consequence  of  this  dis- 
crepancy the  theory  commonly  received  by  that  people  of  the  original 
distinctness  of  the  four  classes,  in  virtue  of  their  derivation  from  dif- 
ferent portions  of  the  Creator's  body,  is  not  established  as  the  doctrine 
of  Hinduism,  even  by  a  literal  interpretation  of  its  more  popular 
writings. 

It  will  now  be  my  endeavour  to  show  by  a  series  of  proofs  of  a 
different  description,  derived  from  comparative  philology,  and  from  an 
examination  of  the  earliest  Hindu  writings,  the  Vedas,  that  the  people 
of  ladia  who  belong  to  the  principal  pure  and  mixed  classes  were  not 
originally  divided  into  castes,  or  indigenous  in  India,  but  may,  with 

1 


2  PLAN  OF  THE  PEESENT  VOLUME. 

the  greatest  probability,  be  regarded  as  forming  a  branch  (not,  how- 
ever, perhaps,  free  from  the  intermixture  of  foreign  elements,)  of  the 
great  Indo-European  family,  of  which  the  Persians,  Greeks,  Eomans, 
and  Germanic  tribes  were,  or  are,  also  members ;  and  that  while  other 
branches  of  this  great  family  (which  seems  to  have  had  its  primeval 
abode  in  some  distant  country  to  the  north-west  of  India)  separated 
themselves  from  the  main  stock  and  migrated  to  the  westward,  the 
progenitors  of  the  Hindus  travelled  towards  Hindustan,  where  they 
perhaps  intermarried  with  some  of  the  tribes  which  were  previously 
in  occupation  of  the  country,  and  where  their  original  religious  ideas 
were  gradually  modified,  and  the  system  of  castes  and  other  institu- 
tions and  tenets  of  Brahmanism  were  slowly  developed. 

The  process  of  reasoning  by  which  I  hope  to  establish  these  conclu- 
sions is  the  following.  First,  I  propose  to  show,  by  an  examination  of 
the  languages  and  literature  of  India,  that  the  Sanskrit  is  not  (as  the 
Hindus  appear  to  conceive)  an  immutable  form  of  speech  of  divine 
origin,  but  is  different  now  from  what  it  was  when  their  ancestors 
first  came  into  India.  This  will  be  made  apparent  by  a  comparison 
of  the  archaic  diction  of  the  Vedic  hymns  with  the  more  modern 
language  of  the  Itihasas  and  Puranas  ;  and  that  this  difference  is  the 
result  of  gradual  development  will  be  proved  by  a  reference  to  the 
natural  laws  of  speech,  and  to  the  analogous  process  which  the  tongues 
of  other  nations  have  undergone ;  by  arguments  drawn  from  the  com- 
position of  such  books  as  the  Nighantu,  and  Nirukta,  explanatory  of 
obsolete  words  and  phrases  in  the  hymns,  and  from  the  existence  of 
such  liturgical  commentaries  as  the  Brahmanas,  and  such  speculative 
treatises  as  the  Upanishads,  which  presuppose  as  already  antiquated, 
or  at  least  antecedent,  the  hymns  which  they  quote,  and  the  sense 
of  which  they  explain  and  develope.  The  difference  in  age  between 
the  various  Indian  S'astras  wiU  be  further  briefly  adverted  to,  and 
established  by  pointing  out  the  great  discrepancy  between  the  religious 
ideas,  forms  ,of  worship,'  and  state  of  manners  which  they  severally 
represent ;  the  Vedic  hymns  being  shown  by  all  these  various  lines  of 
proof  to  be  the  earliest  of  all  the  Indian  books,  and  the  others  to  follow 
from  them  by  a  natural  course  of  growth  and  expansion.     While  the 

'  The  detailed  treatment  of  this  portion  of  the  subject  is  deferred  to  a  later 
volume  of  this  work,  the  fourth. 


PLAN  OF  THE  PEESENT  VOLUME.  3 

mutability  and  the  actual  mutations  of  the  Sanskrit  language  are 
demonstrated  by  this  historical  outline  of  Sanskrit  literature,  I  shall 
show  in  some  introductory  sections,  hov,  through  the  action  of  the 
same  phonetic  changes  as  are  found  to  have  transformed  most  of  the 
ancient  languages  of  Europe  into  their  several  modem  representatives, 
the  older  Sanskrit  becanle  gradually  modified''  into  the  Pali  and 
Prakrits,  of  byegone  centuries,  till,  in  combination  with  other  ele- 
ments,— not  traceable  in  its  classical  literature,  but  forming,  either 
an  original  part  of  the  spoken  dialect  of  the  Aryan  Indians,  or  a 
portion  of  it  borrowed  from  alien  sources, — it  was  ultimately  broken 
down  into  the  modem  vernacular  dialects  of  Northern  India. 

Having  thus  shown  the  mutations  which  the  Sanskrit  has  under- 
gone since  its  introduction  into  India,  I  propose,  secondly,  to  prove, 
by  a  comparison  of  that  venerable  language  with  the  Zend,  Persian, 
Greek,  Latin,  and  other  western  tongues,  that  these  forms  of  speech 
are  all  closely  related  to  each  other,  both  in  respect  of  roots  and  forms 
of  infiection ;  and  this  in  such  a  manner  as  to  show  them  to  be  sister- 
dialects,  derived,  by  gradual  modification,  from  some  more  ancient,  and 
now  extinct,  parent-language.  From  these  facts,  and  others  derived 
from  Zend  and  Greek  mythology  and  literature,  I  shall  proceed  to 
argue  the  probability  of  a  common  origin  of  the  difierent  nations, — 
generally  called  the  Aryan,  Indo-Germanic,  or  Indo-European  nations, 
— ^by  which  the  above-mentioned  languages  have  been  spoken ;  as  well 
as  to  evince  the  strong  probability  that  the  progenitors  of  the  Hindus 
immigrated  from  the  north  or  north-west  into  India. 

1  shall  then  endeavour  to  fortify  the  latter  of  these  conclusions  by 
referring  to  the  indications  which  are  discoverable  of  a  collision  be- 
tween the  Indo- Aryans,  after  their  arrival  in  India,  and  certain  barbar- 
ous tribes,  speaking  a  difiierent  language,  and  belonging  to  a  different 
race,  who  occupied  that  country  before  their  immigration,  and  by 
sketching  a  history  of  their  advance  to  the  south  and  east.  These 
subjects  will  be  illustrated  from  the  data  to  be  found  in  the  Vedic 
hymns,  the  most  ancient  monuments  of  Indian  antiquity,  as  well  as 
in  the  other  S'astras  of  later  date. 

2  The  objections  which  have  been  raised  to  this  statement  of  the  origin  of  the 
Pali,  etc.,  will  be  considered  farther  on. 


CHAPTER    I. 

THE   LANGtTAGES   OF   NOETHEEN  INDIA:   THEIE  HISTOET  AND 

EELATIONS. 

Sect.  I. — The  North-Indian  Dialects,  Ancient  and  Modern. 

A  siJEVET  of  the  languages  of  Northern  India  reveals  to  us  the  fol- 
lowing facts.  'We  find,  first,  a  polished  and  complicated  language, 
the  Sanskrit,  popularly  regarded  as  sacred,  and  in  reality  of  very  high 
antiquity ;  which  is  now,  however,  understood  only  by  a  few  learned 
men,  and  spoken  in.  their  schools  as  the  vehicle  of  discussions  on 
grammar,  theology,  and  philosophy,  while  it  is  totally  unintelligible  to 
the  mass  of  the  people.  "We  find,  secondly,  a  variety  of  provincial 
dialects  which  are  employed  both  by  the  learned  and  the  unlearned, 
viz.,  Bengali,  Hindi,  Mahratti,  GuzaratI,  etc.,  all  bearing  a  close  re- 
semblance to  each  other,  and  all  composed,  in.  a  great  measure,  of 
the  same  roots. 

The  words  of  which  these  vernacular  dialects  are  formed  may  be 
divided  into  four  classes.  First,  such  as  are  pure  Sanskrit,  as  for 
example  livara  (god),  devatd  (deity),  sva/rga  (heaven),  &tri  (woman), 
pwrusha  (man),  jana  (person) ;  secondly,  words  which,  though  modified 
from  their  original  form,  are  easily  recognizable  as  Sanskrit,  such  as 
log  from  loha  (people),  istrl  from  stri  (woman),  munh  from  muhha 
(mouth),  hhai  from  hhratri  (brother),  Ihatlja  from  hhratrifa  (brother's 
son),  hMn  from  ih&ffHi  (sister),  bii/ah  from  vivaha  (marriage),  Ihuln 
from  hhumi  (earth),  and  innumerable  others  in  Hindi ;  thirdly,  words 
which  have  no  resemblance  to  any  vocables  discoverable  in  Sanskrit 
books,  and  which  we  must  therefore  either  suppose  to  have  an  origin 
independent  of  that  language,  or  to  have  formed  part  of  the  coUoquial, 


THE  NORTH-INDIAN  DIALECTS,  ANCIENT  AND  MODERN.        5 

though  not  of  the  ■written,  Aryan  speech,*  such  as  in  Hiudi,  hap 
(father),  beta  (son),  per  (a  tree),  ehauM  (a  chair),  chuh  (a  blunder), 
JcMrM  (a  window),  jhagra  (a  dispute),  hakhera  (the  same),  ata  (flour), 
ehatal  (a  mat),  and  a  multitude  of  other  instances.  Pourthly,  words 
derived  from  Arabic,  Persian,  or  some  other  foreign  language,  as  admi 
(a  man),  'awrat  (a  woman),  hakim  (a  ruler),  h&him  (a  physician), 
Awrust  (right),  roz  {Aaj),  ,dm-iya  (a  river),  rmhanl  (light),  etc.,  etc. 

Let  us  now  see  what  is  the  history  of  these  vernacular  dialects. 
It  is  clear,  for  various  reasons,  that  they  cannot  have  existed  for  ever 
in  their  present  form.  When  therefore,  and  how  have  they  been 
created  ?  "What  do  history  and  the  books  of  Indian  grammarians  tell 
us  on  the  subject  ? 

If  we  begin  with  the  Arabic  and  Persian  words  which  the  North - 
Indian  dialects,  such  as  Bengali  and  Hindi,  contain,  we  shall  find  it 
to  be  universally  admitted  that  words  of  this  kind  have  only  been 
introduced  into  those  languages  since  the  time  when  the  Musulmans 
began  to  invade  India.  Now  it  is  well  known  that  Mahmud  of 
Ghazni  made  his  first  inroad  into  Hindustan  between  eight  and  nine 
hundred  years  ago.  Before  that  time,  and  in  fact  tUl  long  after- 
wards, when  the  Mahomedans  had  penetrated  from  the  north-west 
far  into  India,  and  taken  possession  of  that  country,  there  could 
have  been  scarcely  any  intermixture  of  Arabic  or  Persian  words  in 
the  Indian  dialects.' 

1  This  latter  alternative  supposition  was  suggested  to  me  by  Prof.  Anfreoht.  The 
same  remark  had  been  previously  made  by  Mr.  J.  Beames,  as  will  appear  from  a 
quotation  which  I  shall  make  farther  on  from  his  "Notes  on  the  Bhojpurl  dialect  of 
Hindi,"  in  the  Journal  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society  for  1868,  p.  499. 

*  We  learn,  indeed,  from  the  works  of  the  ancient  astronomer,  Varaha  Mihira, 
that  a  few  astronomical  and  astrological  terms  of  Greek  or  Arabic  origin  had  been 
borrowed  from  the  Arabian  astronomers,  and  introduced  into  Sanskrit  books.  I 
allude  to  such  words  as  hJora,  drikana,  lipta,  anapha,  stotapha,  apoklima,  rihpha, 
which  are  of  Greek  origin,  and  mukarina,  mukavila,  tasdi,  tasli,  etc.,  which  are 
derived  from  the  Arabic.  (Colebrooke's  Misc.  Essays,  II.,  525  ff.,  and  Weber's 
Indische  Literaturgeschichte,  p.  227,  and  Indische  Studien,  II.,  pp.  254  and  263.) 
■  The  following  verse  of  Varaha  Mihira  proves  clearly  how  much  the  Indian  astro- 
nomers were  indebted  to  the  Greeks : — 

mdeohhah  hi  yavcmds  teshu  samyak  sastram  idem,  sthitam  \ 
rishi-vat  te  'pi  pujyante  kim  ptmar  daivavid  dvijali  \ 
' '  For  the  Tavanas  are  Mlechhas ;  yet  among  them  this  science  is  thoroughly  cultivated ; 


6        THE  NOETH-INDIAN  DIALECTS,  ANCIENT  AND  MODERN. 

In  the  preface  to  tte  popular  Urdu  book,  the  Bagh  o  Bahar,  we 
have  the  following  account  by  the  author,  Mir  Amman,  of  Dehli 
(who  states  that  his  forefathers  had  served  all  the  kings  of  Hin- 
dustan, from  Humayun  downwards),  of  the  origin  of  the  Urdu 
language,  which  I  copy  in  the  Eoman  character: — 

"  Haqic[at  Urdu  hi  %aban  M  hwawrgon  he  munh  se  yun  sunl  hai  hih 
Dilll  shahr  Hinduon  he  na%dlh  ehaujugl  hai,  Uhhen  he  raja  parjd 
qadim,  se  rahte  the,  aur  apnl  hhahhd  lolte  the.  Hazar  haras  se  Musul- 
manon  ha  'amal  hua.  Sultan  Mahmud  Qha%noim  aya.  Phir  Qhori 
aur  Lodl  hadshah  hue.  Is  amad  o  raft  he  hais  huohh  %aMnon  ne 
Hindu  Musulman  kt  dmezish  pal.  Ahhir  Arhir  Taimur  ne.  .  .  . 
Sindustan  ho  liya.  Unhe  dne  aur  rahme  se  lashhar  hd  bdzdr  shahr 
men  ddkhil  hud.  Is  wdste  shahr  ha  hd%dr  Urdu  hahldyd.  ,  .  .  Jab. 
Akba/r  hddsh&h  takht  par  haithe,  tab  chdron  taraf  he  mulhon  se  sab 
qaum  qadrddm  aur  faizrasdni  us  hhdnddn  Idsani  hi  sunhar  hu%ur  men 
aharjama'a  hue.  Lehin  har  eh  hi  goydi  awr  boUjudl  jttdl  thl,  Ihatthe 
hone  se  dpas  men  ten  den  saudd  sulf  suwdl  jawdb  hwrte  eh  %abdn  Urdu 
M  muqarrar  hui.  .  .  .  Niddn  zaban  Urdu  M  manfte  manjte  aisi  manjl 
hih  hisu  shahr  hi  bolt  us  se  tahhar  nahln  hhdtl." 

"  I  have  heard  from  the  lips  of  my  ancestors  the  following  account 
of  the  Urdu  language  : — The  City  of  Delhi  in  the  opinion  of  the 
Hindus  has  existed  during  the  four  Yugas.  It  was  inhabited  of  old 
by  their  kings  with  their  subjects,  who  spoke  their  own  hhdhha 
(dialect).  A  thousand  years  ago  the  rule  of  the  Musulmans  began. 
Sultan  Mahmud,  of  Q-haziu,  came.  Then  the  Grhori  and  Lodl  dynasties 
held  sway.  In  consequence  of  this  intercourse,  a  certain  mixture  of 
the  languages  of  the  Hindus  and  Musulmans  took  place.  At  length 
Amir  Taimur  .  .  .  conquered  Hindustan.  In  consequence  of  his 
arrival  and  residence,  the  bazar  of  the  army  was  introduced  into  the 
city,  and  the  bazar  of  the  city  came  in  consequence  to  be  called 
Urdu.  .  .  .  When  king  Akbar  ascended  the  throne,  all  races,  learning 
the  liberality  of  that  unequalled  family  and  its  patronage  of  merit, 

and  even  they  are  revered  like  KisMs :  how  much  more  a  Brahman  skilled  in  asti-ology ! " 
(Colebrooke's  Essays,  II.,  410.)  This  trifling  exception,  however,  does  not  invalidate 
the  assertion  made  in  the  text,  that  it  was  only  after  the  settlement  of  the  Musulmans 
in  India  that  Arabic  and  Persian  words  came  to  be  used  in  the  dialects  of  India. 


THE  NORTH-INDIAN  DIALECTS,  ANCIENT  AND  MODERN.        7 

gathered  round  his  court  from  all  the  surrounding  countries ;  but  the 
language  of  all  these  people  was  different.  From  their  being  collected, 
however,  trafficking  together,  and  talking  with  each  other,  a  camp 
(Urdu)  language  became  established.  ...  At  length,  the  TJrdu 
language,  being  gradually  polished,  attained  such  a  degree  of  refine- 
ment that  the  speech  of  no  city  can  vie  with  it." 

But  it  is  only  in  the  IJrdu  dialect,  which  is  used  by  the  Mahomedans 
and  by  those  Hindus  in  the  north-western  provinces  of  India  who  have 
learnt  the  Persian  language,  that  Persian  and  Arabic  words  are  ex- 
tensively employed.  The  words  derived  from  those  sources  which 
exist  ia  the  Bengali,  Hindi,  Mahratti,  Guzarati,  and  other  North- 
Indian  dialects,  in  the  form  in  which  they  are  generally  spoken  by 
the  Hindus,  are  considerably  fewer  'u  number.  By  far  the  larger 
portion  of  words  in  those  tongues  are  (as  has  been  already  said)  either 
(1)  pure  Sanskrit,  or  (2)  corrupt  Sanskrit,  or  (3)  words  which  can 
neither  be  traced  in  Sanskrit  books  nor  yet  are  derived  from  Persian 
or  Arabic,  and  which  may  therefore  be  regarded  either  as  indigenous 
{i.e.  derived  from  non-Aryan  tribes),  or  ooUoquial  vocables  of  Aryan 
origin. 

Several  interesting  questions  arise  here ;  as  First,  how  far  back  can 
we  trace  the  existing  vernacular  dialects,  Bengali,  Hindi,  Mahratti, 
Guzarati,  etc.,  in  the  form  in  which  they  are  now  spoken  ?  Secondly, 
what  has  been  the  process  of  their  formation?  and.  Thirdly,  from 
what  source  have  they  derived  those  words  which  are  not  discover- 
able in  Sanskrit,  as  it  has  been  preserved  to  us  in  written  records  ? 

The  question  regarding  the  antiquity  of  the  existing  vernaculars 
is  one  which  I  am  not  prepared  to  answer  with  any  precision.  Pro- 
fessor Lassen  (Institutiones  Linguae  Pracriticae,  pp.  59  f.)  thinks  they 
have  existed  since,  at  least,  1000  a.d.  I  translate  his  remarks  on 
the  two  classes  of  dialects  derived  from  Sanskrit:  "To  close  this 
disquisition,  I  therefore  remark  that  there  are  two  families  of  cor- 
rupted Sanskrit,  one  more  ancient,  and  not  completely  broken  down, 
to  which  belong  the  Pali  and  the  dramatic  dialects ;  and  a  second  of 
more  recent  origin,  and  diffused  in  our  own  day  over  the  provinces  of 
India,  which  differs  more  widely  from  its  parent.  The  former  set  are 
genuine  daughters  of  the  Sanskrit;    the  latter  grand-daughters,  al- 


8       THE  KORTH-INDIAN  DIALECTS,  ANCIENT  AND  MODEHN. 

ttough  it  is  to  some  extent  doubtful  whether  these  are  the  daughters 
of  the  former,  or  of  their  sister  dialects.  As  regards  antiquity,  the 
foimer  family  are  proved  by  the  history  of  Buddhism,  and  of  the 
Indian  drama,  to  have  come  into  existence  prior  to  our  era ;  and  it  may 
be  shown  by  probable  proofs  that  the  latter  arose  before  1000  a.d.  The 
discussion  of  the  latter" question  is,  however,  foreign  to  our  purpose." 

Mr.  Beames  claims  for  the  modern  vernacular  dialects  a  high  anti- 
quity, and  regards  them  as  springing  from  an  ancient  Aryan  language, 
which  included  elements  not  discoverable  in  the  classical  Sanskrit. 
His  observations  are  as  follows  : 

"I  would  here  further  observe  that  the  written  Sanskrit  has  un- 
fortunately attracted  the  attention  of  scholars  too  exclusively.  No 
one  who  lives  long  in  India  can  escape  having  the  conviction  forced 
on  him  that  the  written  language  is  quite  inadequate  to  account  for 
many  forms  and  facts  observable  in  the  modem  dialects.  These  dialects 
assert  for  themselves  a  high  antiquity,  and  are  derived,  one  cannot 
doubt,  from  an  ancient  Aryan  speech,  which  is  as  imperfectly  repre- 
sented in  Sanskrit  as  the  speech  of  the  Italian  peasantry  of  their  day 
was  represented  by  Cicero  or  Virgil.  The  process  of  selection  which 
led  the  polished  Boman  to  use  only  stately  and  euphonious  words — a 
process  which  is  abundantly  exemplified  in  the  pages  of  modem  English 
writers — was  doubtless  at  work  among  the  ancient  Brahmins ;  and  the 
fact  that  the  cognate  Indo-Germanic  languages  preserve  words  not 
found  in  Sanskrit,  but  which  can  be  matched  from  the  stores  of  humble 
and  obscure  Hindi  or  Bengali  dialects,  is  another  proof  of  this  fact. 
The  line  taken  by  Professor  Lassen,  in  his  valuable  Prakrit  Grammar, 
of  treating  all  Prakrit  words  as  necessarily  modifications  of  Sanskrit 
words,  is  one  which  he  has  borrowed  whole  from  Vararuchi  and 
Hemachandra,  and,  however  excusable  in  those  ancient  commentators, 
seems  unworthy  of  an  age  of  critical  research." 

It  is  not,  however,  necessary  for  my  purpose  that  I  should  decide, 
even  approximately,  the  question  of  the  antiquity  of  the  modern 
vernaculars.  It  will  be  sufficient  if  I  can  show  that  they  have  been 
derived  by  a  gradual  process  of  change  from  other  provincial  dialects 
which  preceded  them ;  and  which,  in  their  turn,  have  sprung  from  the 
Sanskrit,  at  some  stage  of  its  development. 


THE  NOSTH-INDLAII  DIALECTS,  AUCIEXT  AND  MODEEN.        Q 

There  is  no  difficnlty  in  conceiving  that  the  TrifliaTi  vemactdar 
dialects  shoiild  have  undergone  great  modifications  in  a  long  course  of 
ages.  The  mere  fact  ahove  adverted  to,  which  every  one  recognizes, 
of  their  having  at  a  particular  assignable  date  admitted  into  their 
Tocahulary  a  large  inflnx  of  Persian  and  Arabic  words,  is  sufficient  to 
render  it  probable  that  they  may  have  formerly  experienced  other 
mutations  of  various  kinds. 

The  circumstance,  too,  that  the  people  who  inhabit  the  different 
provinces  of  northern  India  make  use  of  different,  but  kindred,  provin- 
cial dialects,  Bengali,  Hindi,  Mahratti,  etc.,  which  must,  for  the  most 
part,  at  a  period  more  or  less  remote,  have  sprung  from  some  common 
source,'  is  a  proof  of  the  tendency  to  change  which  is  inherent  in  all 
spoken  language.  For  as  the  inhabitants  of  all  these  provinces  profess, 
with  some  modifications,  the  same  creed,  receive  the  same  religious  books, 
and  are  divided  into  the  same  or  similar  castes,  and  for  these  and  other 
reasons  appear  to  be  descended,  though  perhaps  not  exclusively,  from 
one  common  stock,  it  is  highly  probable  that  their  common  ancestors 
must,  at  one  time,  have  employed  one  and  the  same  language :  and 
that  that  language  has  in  process  of  time  undergone  various  provincial 
modifications,  out  of  which  the  several  modem  vernaculars  have  been 
gradually  formed. 

We  shall  also  see,  a  little  further  on,  that  the  differences  between 
the  !North-Indian  dialects  (the  old  Maharashtri,  Skuraseni,  etc.)  which 
preceded  the  modem  vernacular  tongues,  were  few  and  unimportant; 
whereas  the  modem  vernacular  tongues,  Bengali,  Hindi,  Mahratti,  and 
Gnzarati,  differ  widely  from  each  other  in  their  forms  of  inflection 
and  conjugation.  This  greater  divergence  between  the  modem  than 
we  find  to  have  existed  between  the  earlier  dialects,  evinces  clearly  the 
tendency  to  continual  alteration,  which  I  have  remarked  as  a  charac- 
teristic of  language  in  general. 

3  Mr.  Beames  says  (Jour.  Eoy.  As.  Soc.  for  1868,  p.  498)  :  "  It  is,  however,  clear 
that  each  dialect  of  Hindi  has  had  an  independent  existence  for  centuries,  and  I  think 
an  independent  origin."  This,  however,  can  of  course  apply  only  to  forms,  not  to 
the  words  which  the  dialects,  whether  Hindi  or  other,  have  in  common ;  and  which 
in  many  cases  are  diveisely  modified  from  the  Sanskrit  original.  And  althoogh  some 
of  the  grammatical  forms  may  be  original  or  invented,  and  not  modified  &om  those 
of  any  pre-ensfaiig  Aryan  langnage,  there  mnst  be  other  forms  which  are  merely 
modificationE  or  developments. 


10     THE  NOETH-INDIAN  DIALECTS,  ANCIENT  AND  MODERN. 

I  shall  first  of  all  state  briefly  the  facts  by  which  it  is  proved  that 
the  modem  vernaculars  are  not,  comparatively  speaking,  of  any  high 
antiquity,  but  have  arisen  out  of  earlier  provincial  dialects :  and  then 
proceed  to  establish  these  facts  more  in  detail. 

First.  In  extant  Buddhist  histories,  such  as  the  Lalita  Vistara 
composed  in  Sanskrit,  numerous  verses,  styled  Gathas,  are  inter- 
spersed, the  language  of  which  differs  from  pure  Sanskrit,  by  the  forms 
of  inflection  being  varied  or  mutilated.  This  popularized  Sanskrit,  or 
something  akin  to  it,  appears  to  have  been  at  one  time  the  spoken 
language  of  India ;  or,  at  least,  this  Gatha  dialect  exhibits  some  speci- 
mens of  that  ancient  spoken  language,  and  exemplifies  the  process  by 
which  the  ancient  Sanskrit,  itself  at  one  time  a  spoken  language, 
became  gradually  corrupted. 

Second.  It  has  been  discovered  that  many  inscriptions  are  extant, 
engraven  on  rocks  in  different  parts  of  India,  bearing  date  apparently 
between  two  and  three  hundred  years  anterior  to  the  Christian  era, 
in  which  a  language  differing  both  from  Sanskrit  and  the  modern 
vernaculars  is  used. 

Third.  There  are  extant  in  other  countries,  such  as  Ceylon  and 
Burmah,  very  ancient  Buddhist  books  written  in  a  language  called 
Pali  or  Magadhi,  which  also  is  different  from  the  modern  vernaculars, 
as  well  as  from  Sanskrit,  while  it  closely  resembles  the  language  of 
the  rock  inscriptions  just  alluded  to. 

Fourth.  In  ancient  Indian  dramas  such  as  the  MriohhakatI, 
S'akuntala,  etc.,  while  kings  and  Brahmans  are  made  to  speak  Sanskrit, 
various  forms  of  speech  called  Prakrit  and  Apabhransa  are  employed 
for  the  inferior  castes  and  for  women,  which  in  like  manner,  differ 
both  from  Sanskrit  and  from  the  existing  vernacular  tongues. 

The  four  foregoing  classes  of  language  have  a  more  or  less  close 
aflSnity  to  each  other ;  and  from  the  use  made  of  the  last  three  in 
particular,  viz.,  that  used  in  the  rook  inscriptions,  that  found  in  the 
Pall  Buddhistical  writings,  and  those  employed  in  the  dramas,  it  is 
impossible  to  doubt  that  either  they,  or  forms  of  speech  closely 
connected  with  them,  were  formerly  current,  during  a  long  course  of 
centuries,  as  the  actual  vernaculars  of  the  periods  when  they  were 
employed  for  literary,  political,  and  religious  purposes. 


THE  DRAMATIC  PRAKRITS.  H 

But  ■while  we  thus  discover  that  Pali  and  different  forms  of  Prakrit, 
such  as  have  been  described,  were  employed  in  former  times,  we  can 
find  no  traces  of  the  modern  vernacular  dialects,  Hindi,  Bengali,  or 
Mahratti,  etc.,  in  their  present  shape,  in  the  ancient  records  of  that 
same  period ;  and  we  must  therefore  of  necessity  conclude  that  these 
modern  vernaculars  did  not  at  that  time  exist,  but  have  been  subse- 
quently developed  out  of  the  above-mentioned  Prakrit  languages  or 
other  pre-existent  forms  of  speech;  in  other  words,  that  the  former 
vernaculars  (or  Prakrits)  have  been  gradually  altered  until  they  have 
assumed  the  form  of  the  modern  Hindi,  Bengali,  Mahratti,  etc. 

As  regards  the  second  question  started  in  p.  7,  the  process  by  which 
the  modern  vernaculars  aros^out  of  the  earlier  modifications  of  Sanskrit, 
viz.,  the  manner  in  which  the  grammatical  forms  of  the  latter,  i.e.  the 
Prakrits,  were  broken  down  into  those  of  the  former,  it  is  not  neces- 
sary that  I  should  enter  iato  any  detailed  investigation,  although  some 
insight  into  the  process  will  be  afforded  by  the  Comparative  Tables 
which  will  be  given  further  on.  It  is  sufficient  to  know  that  by  a 
particular  operation  of  the  general  laws  of  linguistic  change,  the  more 
recent  forms  of  speech  have  naturally  grown  out  of  the  older. 

I  shaU  now  proceed  to  supply  a  more  detailed  account  of  those  forms 
of  vernacular  speech  already  alluded  to,  which  appear  to  have  preceded 
the  existiug  varieties,  and  which  are  now  obsolete.  In  carrying  out 
this  design,  it  will  be  advisable  to  begia  with  those  dialects  which 
seem  to  be  the  most  recently  formed  and  employed  of  the  four  Indian 
classes  of  speech  which  have  been  before  alluded  to,  viz.,  first,  that 
found  in  the  Buddhist  Gathas ;  secondly,  that  used  in  the  rock  in- 
scriptions; thirdly,  the  Pali;  and  fourthly,  the  dramatic  Prakrits. 
The  last-named  class  appearing  to  be  the  most  recent,  I  shall  first 
subject  it  to  examination,  and  then  proceed  to  the  others. 


Sect.  II. — The  Prakrit  Dialects  employed  in  the  Dramas. 

With  the  view  of  ascertaining  the  relation  in  which  the  Prakrit 
languages  stand  to  the  modern  vernaculars  of  northern  India,  I  have 
gone  cursorily  over  several  of  the  dramas  in  which  they  are  employed, 
such  as  the  Mrichhakati,  attributed  to  King  S'udraka,  and  the  Yikra- 


12  THE  DRAMATIC  PRAKRITS. 

morva^i  attributed  to  Kalidasa,  (both  of  -which,  though  their  precise 
age  be  disputed,  appear  to  have  been  respectively  composed,  at  the  latest, 
about  sixteen  and  fourteen  hundred  years  ago,*)  together  with  several 
others.  I  have  also  referred  to  the  examples  given  in  the  Prakrit 
Grammar  of  Vararuchi,  ■which  is  considered  by  Lassen  to  have  been  com- 
posed about  eighteen  hundred  years  ago,*  or  rather  in  its  commentary. 
An  examination  of  the  Prakrits  ■which  are  found  in  these  several  -works 
shows  that  the  languages  of  India  ■were  then  in  a  state  of  transition, 
and  formed  an  intermediate  link  between  the  Sanskrit  and  the  modern 
vernacular  dialects.  For  ■whatever  opinion  we  may  entertain  on  the 
question  whether  the  dramatic  Prakrits  were  identical  with  any  con- 
temporaneous or  earlier  vernacular  dialectg,^  it  is  difficult  to  imagine 
that  they  had  not  a  considerable  resemblance  to  some  of  these.  Even 
if  some  of  the  forms  of  the  dramatic  Prakrits  were  purely  literary  and 
unknown  in  any  of  the  spoken  languages,  they  could  scarcely  have 
failed  to  bear  some  analogy  to  those  of  the  latter ;  as,  first,  the  inventors 
of  those  forms  could  hardly  have  had  the  ingenuity  to  devise  entirely 
novel  modifications  of  speech,  or  secondly,  if  they  had,  their  com- 
positions would  have  been  thereby  rendered  unintelligible.  The 
Prakrit  forms  of  inflection  and  declension  approach  more  to  the 
Sanskrit  than  to  the  modem  vernaculars;   but  yet  exhibit  a  great 

*  Professor  Wilson,  reasoning  from  a  variety  of  considerations,  considers  the 
Mrichhakatl  to  have  been  probably  composed  in  the  interval  bet^ween  100  b  c.  and 
the  end  of  the  second  century  a.d.  (Introduction  to  the  play,  pp.  5-9.)  The  same 
■writer  thinks  that  the  Vikramorya^i,  ■which  is  regarded  as  the  ■work  of  Kalidasa,  is 
more  recent  than  the  Myichhakati,  but  does  not  assign  any  probable  date  (Introd.  to 
drama,  pp.  183,  186).  Lassen  holds  that  the  Mrichhakati  was  composed  towards  the 
end  of  the  first  century  a.d.,  while  the  Vikramorvas'i  and  the  S'akuutala  (which  last 
is  also  assigned  to  Kalidasa)  were  composed  in  the  second  half  of  the  second  century 
A.D.  (Ind.  Alt.  ii.  p.  1160).  Weber,  on  the  other  hand,  in  his  latest  notice  of 
the  subject  in  the  Introduction  to  his  Malavika  and  Agnimitra,  pp.  xxxiii,  xl,  places 
the  age  of  Kalidasa,  the  author  of  Vikramorvas'i  and  S'akuntala,  at  the  close  of  the 
third  century  a.d.  The  Mrichhakati  is  held  by  the  same  author  to  be  not  earlier 
than  the  second  century  a.d.  (Ind.  Stud.  ii.  148). 

s  Ind.  Alterth.,  vol.  ii.  p.  1160. 

8  It  is  quite  conceivable  that  the  Prakrits  employed  in  the  earlier  dramas  may 
have  continued  to  be  the  conventional  forms  in  use  in  later  ■works  of  the  same  kind, 
even  after  the  provincial  vernaculars  to  ■which  they  were  most  akin  had  been  modified 
or  superseded,— just  as  Latin,  Sanskrit  and  Pali  continued  to  be  used  for  literary 
purposes  after  they  had  ceased  to  be  spoken  tongues, 


THE  DRAMATIC  PEAKRITS. 


13 


breaking  down  and  modification  of  the  former.  I  will  give  some 
instances  of  this  which  will  make  my  meaning  clearer  than  any- 
general  statements.  I  do  not  think  it  necessary  to  distinguish  here 
the  different  kinds  of  Prakrit,  which  will  be  specified  further  on. 


Sanskrit. 

Prakrit. 

Hindi. 

English. 

Bhavami 

Homi 

Hun 

I  am. 

Bhavasi 

Hosi 

Hal 

Thou  art. 

Bharati 

Hodi 

Hal 

He  is. 

Bhavaati 

Honti 

Haiu 

They  are. 

trttishtha 

Utthehi 

Uth 

Eise. 

Prapnomi 

Pavimi 

Pata-hiSii 

I  obtain. 

S'riuomi 

S'unami 

Sunta-hun 

I  hear. 

S'rinu 

Sunn,  or  Sunahi 

Sun 

Hear  (imper.). 

Kathaya 

Kahehi 

Kab 

TeU. 

Dadami 

Demi 

Deta-hun 

I  give. 

Dadati 

Dedi 

Deta-hai 

He  gives. 

Dattam 

Dinnam 

Diya,  Din 

Given. 

Nrityati 

NSohchai 

Nacbta 

He  dances. 

Eakshami 

Eakkhaml 

Eakbta-huu 

I  keep. 

Dhaya 

DhoTcM 

Dho 

Wash. 

Brumah 

BoUamo 

Bolte 

We  speak. 

Patarai 

Paremi 

Parta 

I  fall. 

Kishkas'aya 

Nikkalehi 

Nikal 

Expel, 

Ghritam 

GWa 

Ghi 

Ghee. 

Mukha 

Maha 

MiiTih 

Mouth, 

Karyyam 

Kajjam 

Kaj 

"Work. 

Karma 

Kamma 

Kam 

"Work. 

Kama 

Kanna 

Kan 

Ear. 

Twam 

Tumam 

Turn 

Thou  or  you. 

Tubhyam 

Tujh 

Tujh 

To  thee. 

Tushmakam 

Tumhanam 

Tumbara 

Of  you. 

Asti 

Atthi,  or  Achchhi 

Acbchhe  (Beng.) 

He  is. 

Sauti 

Achclibanti 

Acbcbhen  (ditto.) 

They  are. 

It  is  manifest  that  in  these  instances  we  see  the  intermediate 
forms  which  the  words  took  in  Prakrit  before  they  assumed  the  shapes 
in  which  we  now  find  them  in  Hindi  or  Bengali,  e.g.,  karma  and 
karyya  became  in  Prakrit  respectively  kamma  and  hajja,  and  finally  iu 
Hindi  kam  and  kaj.     The  Sanskrit  form  rakshami  (I  keep)  re-appears 


14  THE  DEAMATIC  PEAERITS. 

in  the  Prakrit  rahKhami,  with  the  compound  consonant  ksh  changed 
into  hhh,  but  with  ami  the  final  affix  of  the  first  person  singular 
unchanged.  In  the  modern  vernacular  the  former  change  remains, 
hut  the  word  has  undergone  a  farther  modification,  the  peculiar  affix  of 
the  first  person  singular  ami  having  disappeared  in  the  Hindi  rakhta, 
which  does  not  differ  from  the  second  and  third  persons.  A  fuller 
exemplification  of  the  points  in  which  the  Prakrits  coincide  with  and 
diverge  from  the  Sanskrit,  on  the  one  hand,  and  approximate  to  the 
modern  vernaculars  on  the  other,  wiU  be  found  in  the  tabular 
statement  subjoined. 

The  books  to  which  reference  has  been  made  in  this  statement  are 
the  following : — Mr.  Cowell's  Prakrita  Prakala  of  Vararuchi ;  Lassen's 
Institutiones  Linguae  Pracriticse ;  Delius's  Eadices  Pracriticse ;  the 
Mrichhakati,  Stenzler's  edition ;  the  S'akuntala,  Bohtlingk's  edition ; 
the  Prabodha  Chandrodaya,  Brookhaus's  edition ;  Malavika  Agnimitra, 
Tullberg's  edition ;  and  the  VikramorvasT,  Calcutta  edition.' 

'  Since  the  first  edition  of  this  work  appeared,  two  dramas,  the  Prasannaraghava 
of  Jayadeva,  and  the  Balaramayana  of  Eajat'ekhara,  ha^e  been  printed  by  Pandit 
Govinda  Deva  S'astri,  in  the  Journal  called  "The  Pandit,"  published  at  Benares, 
and  separate  copies  of  each  have  been  struck  off,  bearing  the  dates  of  1868  and  1869. 
Professor  Weber  has  also  published,  in  1866,  a  Dissertation  on  the  language  of  the 
Jaina  work  called  "  Bhagavati,"  which  is  a  species  of  Prakrit;  and  in  1870  the  text, 
with  a  German  translation,  of  the  "  Sapta^ataka  of  Hala,"  as  a  "  contribution  to 
the  knowledge  of  PrSkfit." 


THE  DRAMATIC  PEAKRITS. 


15 


Table  No.  I. 

COMPARATIVE  STATEMENT   OP   THE   SANSKRIT,  PRAKRIT,  AND 

MODERN  INDIAN  LANGUAGES.s 


BEFERENCES. 

SANSKRIT. 

PRAKRIT. 

srsm. 

mahrattI. 

ENGLISH. 

Mrichh.  3. 126 

ghritam 

ghiam 

ghi 

ghl 

ghee. 

Mrichh.  3     1 
Var.  V.  26 

dadhi    , 

dahim,  dahim 

dahi 

dahm 

curds. 

Var.  ii.  27  .  . 

mukha 

muham 

muhh 

mukh 

mouth. 

Var.  ii.  27  .  . 

la4Ura 

vahira, 

bahira 

bahira 

deaf. 

Var.  ii.  27  .  . 

megha 

meho 

menh 

megh,  dhag 

cloud. 

Var.  T.  19   .  . 

vadhu 

vahu 

bahu 

bayako,  bail 

wife. 

Mrichh.  164.\ 
168.    .  .  .) 

sadhu 

sahu^  dahu 

sahu 

sahu,savakar 

/  good : 
\  banker. 

Var.  iii.  3.  17. 
Var.  iii.  17.  \ 
Var.  ix.  17.  / 

karya,  karma 

kajja,  kammo 

kaj,  kam 

kaj,  kam 

work. 

art/e . 

<?»« 

.     .    . 

,     .     . 

respectahle. 

"  Var.  ii.  10.     . 

garbhim 

gabbhin 

gabbhin 

gabhan 

pregnant. 

Var.  iii.  2.  50. 

yogyam 

joggam 

Jog 

Joga 

proper. 

Var.  iii.  2.  .  . 

rajya 

rajja 

raj 

.    •    . 

kingdom. 

Var.  iii.  27.  | 
Mrichh.  31.  / 

adya 

ajja 

oj 

sy 

to-day. 

Vikr.  78.  79. 

vadyanmnaih 

vajjemtehim 

bajana 

bajawinem 

to  sound. 

Var.  iii.  3.  .  . 

ardham, 

addham 

adha 

adha 

half. 

Var.  ui.  3.  50. 

karnah 

kanno 

kan 

Team, 

ear. 

S'ak.  25.  .  .  . 

kharjuraih 

khajjurehim 

khajur 

khajur 

date  tree. 

Mrichh.  104. 

Uharmmaka- 
\  rah 
(kumbhaka-  \ 

Sehammarao 
kumhhSro 

chamar 

ehamhdr 

Chumar. 

Var.  It.  1.  .  . 

kwmhdr 

kumbhar 

potter. 

Var.  iii.  3.  .  . 

sanam        < 

sabbam,       \ 
dabbam       ] 

sab 

^OAAi^ 

all. 

Mrichh.  124. 

suvarna 

hvana 

sona 

sonem 

gold. 

Var.  iii.  27.    . 

satyam 

sachcham 

sack 

sach 

true. 

Var.  iii.  4.     1 
Mrichh.  44.  / 
Vikr.  23.  .  .  . 

chandraji 
chandrena 

chando 
chandaena 

chaitd 

chand 

moon. 

by  the  moon. 

Var.  iii.  28.    . 

mad/iyah 

majjho 
hattho 

manjhalcij  \ 
majhola      / 

maj 

middle. 

Var.  iii.  12.    . 

hastdh 

hath 

hat 

hand. 

Mrichh.  7. 120 

vriddha 

vuddha 

budha 

(;,/yi--- 

old. 

Vikr.  107.  .  . 

vriddKam, 

vtiddim 

budhiya 

.     .     . 

old  woman. 

Vikr.  121.   .  . 

jyeshtha 

jettha 

Jet'ha 

eldest. 

Var.  iii.  1.  50 

mmhti 

mutthi 

mutthi 

muth 

fist :  handftil. 

Var.iii.  l.sn 
Mrich.28.142 

sreshthi 

setthi 

seth 

set 

'  superior, 
;  banker. 

Mrichh.  18.  30 

kashthena 

katthma 

kdth 

kathi 

wood,  a  pole 

Mrichh.  18. 21 

smhka 
sakshin 

sukkha        \ 
sukkha        \ 
sakkhi 

sukha 

sukha,  suka 

dry. 

Mrichh.  53.    , 

sakhi 

.    .    . 

witness. 

8  This  table  (except  as  regards  the  transliteration  of  the  Indian  words),  is  reprinted 
nearly  as  it  stands  in  the  first  edition,  and  without  a  renewed  verification  of  the 
references  in  col.  1,  the  labour  of  which,  I  thought,  would  hardly  bare  been  repaid  by 
correction  of  a  few  possible  inaccuracies. 


16 


THE  DRAMATIC  PRAKRITS. 


EBPEBENCES. 

SANSKHIT. 

PRAKKIT. 

HINDI. 

MAHBATli. 

ENGLISH. 

Var.  i.  20.  and 
iii.  12.     .  .  . 

\pustaliam 

pothao 

pothl 

pothl 

book. 

Var.  iii.  29.  ' 
Mrichh.  54.  ; 

pushkarah 

pokhharo 

pokhara 

pokhar 

pond. 

Mrichh.  99. 
Var.  ui.  29.  j 

dakshine 

dakkhine 

dakhin 

.    .    . 

south.  9 

Lassen,  363. ) 
Mrichh.  97.  J 

dakshinam 

dakinam 

dahina 

. 

/on  the  right 
,  hand.  9 

117 ) 

Var.  iii.  40.  1 
Mrichh.  99.  / 

paichimali 

pachchhimo 

pachehim 

west. 

boiled  rice, 
rice  in  husk. 

Var.  iii.  1.  .  . 

bhaktam 

bhattam 

bhat 

bhat 

Mrichh.  104. 

granthi 

ganthi 

ganth 

ganth 

joint. 

Var.  i.  12.  .  . 

pishtam 

pittham 

pitna 

pitanem 

to  pound. 

Mrichh.  105. 

prishthatah 

pitthido 

pith 

.     .    . 

at  the  back, 
name  of  a 
month, 
field. 

Var.  i.  36.   .  . 

chaitraly 

cha'itto  ■ 

ehait 

.    .    • 

Mrichh.  120) 
Var.  iii.  29.  j 

kshetra 

khetta 

khet 

set 

Mrichh.  94.  95 

mrittika^     , 

mattia 

mattl 

matl 

earth. 

Var.  iii.  40.   \ 
Mrich.71.150J 

pas'ehat 

paehhado,   ) 
jiaehha        \ 

pachhe 

.     .     . 

after. 

Var.  iii.  2.  .  . 

nagnah 

naggo 

namga 

nanga 

naked. 

Var.  iii.  40.    . 

vatsa 

vachha  i' 

baeha 

baeha 

child,  etc. 

Var.  iv.  9.  261 
Vikr.  36.    .  / 
Var.i.32.iii.31 

vidgut 

vijju,  vijjuU 

iijll 

wlj 

lightning. 

vrikshah 

vtichho  " 

briehh 

vriksha 

tree. 

Mrichh.  73. 79 

rukshap^  1 
rikshah 

ruk&ha,      \ 
lukkha       ) 

rukh  • 

.     •     • 

tree. 

Var.i.30.iii.30 

richchho 

rlchh 

•     •     . 

a  bear. 

Mrichh.  72.  \ 
Var.  V.  36;    / 

ihfSta 

ihSda,  bMa 

bhat 

bhau 

brother. 

Mrichh.  72.   . 

ashtamam 

atthamam 

athwan 

athwa 

eighth. 

Mrichh.  71.   . 

saptamam 

aattamam 

satwan 

satwa 

seventh. 

Var.  iii.  35.  \ 
Mrichh.  93.   j 

pushpam 

puppham 

puhap 

.     .     . 

flower. 

Var.  i.  8.     .  . 

mm/ura  . 

mora 

mor 

mor 

peacock. 

Var.  i.  7.     .  . 

Icmanam 

lonam 

Ion 

Ion 

salt. 

Mrichh.  11.94. 
and  113.  138 

bhagiriim 

bahinim 

bahln 

bahln 

sister. 

Mrichh.  117. 

sujcm-ah 

iuak^^ 

suar 

hog. 

Var.i.28.xi.l7 
Mrichh.  11. 

srigali    •      ' 
'eija 

siali,  siali 

siyal 

.    .     . 

she  jackall. 

Mrichh.  120. 

via 

bla 

ilj,  bJ 

seed. 

Miichh.  77. 

vanik 

bSnio^* 

batiiya 

want 

merchant. 

9  Here  it  deserves  to  be  specially  noted  that  the  Sanskrit  word  undergoes  the  same 
changes  in  Prakrit  and  Hindi  according  to  its  two  different  meanings. 

10  The  Persian  has  the  same  form,  with  a  b  instead  of  the  v. 

1'  Vararnchi  gives  the  form  vaehchho,  not  vuchohha,  which  I  find  in  the  Mrichh.,  p.  73. 

'2  Ruksha  is  given  in  Wilson's  dictionary  as  one  of  the  Sanskrit  words  for  a  tree ;  but 
it  may  have  crept  in  from  Prakpt.    Compare  Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  s.v. 

"  This  word  is  from  the  S'akarika,  one  of  the  Apabhranfa  dialects.  In  ordinary  Prakrit 
it  would  perhaps  be  auaro  or  s'uaro.  "  Vanio  Mjichh.,  28  and  50. 


THE  DEAMATIC  PRAKRITS. 


17 


EEPERENCES. 

SANSKRIT. 

PRAKRIT. 

HINDI. 

MAHRATTl. 

ENGLISH. 

Mfichh.  78.    . 

TcayasthaJi 

kaatthao 

kayath 

kdyat 

Kayasth. 

LasB.p  172.  \ 

218.Mrich.  ( 
29.30.151. 

(dmalayah 
\devakulam, 

deula,          \ 
devalam       j 

dewal 

dewal,  ^"l 

temple. 

Var.  iy.  2.  ] 

Var.  iv.  1.  .  . 

rajaJculam 

rSa'ulam, 
raulam 

ravial  (a 
priest.) 

raul  (a         ) 
palace.)      ] 

royal  family. 

Mrichh.   30.) 
38.  39.    .  .  j 

dyutakarah 

\judiaro,judi- 
(aru,  judialo 

jvari 

jugari 

gamhler. 

Var.  Tiii..25. 

sthana 

thana 

thSnw 

than 

place. 

Var.  iii.  33.    . 

anana 

nhana 

nahan 

nahan,  nhan 

bathing. 

Var.  iii.  33. 61. 

krishnah 

kanho 

kanhaiya, 
kanh^i 

kamhavya,    \ 
kanhoba      j 

Krishna. 

Var.  iii.  3.   .  1 
Mrichh.  13.  j 

grama 

gama 

ganw 

ganw 

Tillage. 

Mrichh.  97.  \ 
Var.  iv.  25.  j 

gramyah 

gamelua  i* 

ganwald 

.     .     . 

villager. 

Mrichh.  69.  96 
Lass.  172.  425 

balwardah 

ba'illd 

bail 

bail 

oxen. 

Mrichh.  6.      . 

daridrataya 

daliddae 

dalidrata 

•  -       .         . 

poverty. 

Mrich.12.44.) 
164.  Var.  xii.  5 
22.  Vikr.  30. ) 

(striyam, 
\atriya 

istJiiyam,'^''  \ 
itthiae         j 

istri 

.     .     . 

woman. 

Mrichh.  18. 23. 
58.      .     .     . 

syala 

salaa,  sSlo 

sola 

sala 

(hrother-in- 
\  law. 

Var.  iii.  14. 60. 
&  Mrichh.  40 

Utambhah 

khambho 

khambhS 

khamb 

pillar. 

Var.  iii.  29.   . 

skmdhah 

khandho 

kandhS 

.     .     * 

shoulder. 

Mrichh.  43. 
Mrichh.  60. 

vahis, 
mhya 

vahila,         \ 
vahira          j 

bahir 

baher 

•  outside. 

Mrichh.  126. 

(vriddhe, 
\vrihati 

vaddhake, 
vaddhakahim 

bada 

.     .     . 

great. 

Mrichh.  131.  ■) 
Var.  iii,  39.  / 

karshSpanam 

(kahabanam, 
(kahavano 

kahawan,     \ 
kahan           ] 

|16  panas  of 
\  cowries. 

Var.  iii.  68.   . 
Mrich.  73. 134 

dirghikS 

d{gghia,diMa. 

dighi 

oblong  pond. 

Var.  V.  24.    . 

haridra 

(haladda, 

[haladdi 

Jaso 

haldl 

.     . 

turmeric. 

Var.  ii.  31.     . 

yasas 

jas 

Jas 

glory. 

Var.  iii.  29.  \ 
Mrichh.  150.] 
Mrichh.  176.1 
Vm.  iii.  26.  / 

kshemmn 

kkhemam 

khem 

khem 

welfare. 

gardabhah  j 

gaddaho,       \ 
gaddaho        ) 

gadaha 

gadhawa 

ass. 

Var.  iii.  28. 66 

aandhya 

sanjha  ^^ 

sanj'h 

sanjh 

evening. 

Var.  iv.  25.    . 

etavat 

ettzam 

Una 

.     .     . 

so  much. 

Mrichh.  44. 

andhttka-    ) 
rasya         \ 

andhaarassa 

andhiyara 

andhar 

darkness. 

"  Kanhpur  (city  of  Kanh,  or  Krishna)  is  the  proper  name  of  Cawnpore.  When 
Krishna  means  black,  it  becomes  Kasmio  in  Prakrit,  according  to  Var.  iii.  61.  The 
Balaramayana  has  kisana,  p.  141,  and  kanna  in  p.  244,  in  the  same  sense. 

16  See  Lassen,  p.  425,  who  sa.ys  gamelm  =  (l\iasi  gramalayukafy. 

"  This  word  is  in  the  S'akarika  dialect. 

'8  In  this  and  other  instances,  the  rules  and. examples  given  would,  of  course,  account, 
by  analogy,  for  the  existence  of  many  other  modem  vernacular  words,  of  which  the  earlier 


18 


THE  DRAMATIC  PEAKRITS. 


KEFEEENOES. 

-  SANSKRIT. 

PRAKRIT. 

HINDI. 

MAHRATTi. 

ENGLISH. 

Vikr.  49.  and/ 
Lass.  249.  ^»1 

upadhya- 

ttajjhSasaa, 
ojhao 

ojhS'o 

freligious 
\  teacher. 

yasya 

. 

Var.  iii.   18.) 
&  Vikr.  9.  / 

asehm-yam 

acheheram, 
aohchtmam 

acharaj 

.      .      . 

wonderful. 

Var.  xii.  6.    \ 
Vikr.  103.    .J 

gridhrma 

giddhma 

gidh 

gldh 

vulture. 

Vikr.  112.   .  . 

mataram     \ 

madaram,^^  \ 
maam          \ 

ma 

at,  OToT'* 

mother. 

Var.  V.  32.  .  . 

mats 

maa             ) 

Vikr.  112.     ( 
Vikr.  116.    j 

pitaram       j 
pituh 

pidaram,"^^  \ 
piaram,       > 
piduno        ) 

pita,  bap 

pita,  bap 

father. 

Mrichh.  14.  ) 

{ 

ghalam,       \ 
gharam,      1 
giham,         I 
haraam       ) 

95.116.141  } 
Var.  iv.  32.  j 

griham        I 

ghar 

ghar 

house. 

Var.  ii.  2.    .  . 

jwani 

jTam 

J' 

•    •    • 

life. 

Var.  ii.  2:    .  . 

suchl 

sut 

SUl 

sul 

needle. 

Var.  ii.2.  iii.50 

margah 

maggo 

.     >     ■ 

.    •    > 

path. 

Var.  iii.  48.    . 

atmanali    | 

apano^     \ 
appano       ] 

apna 

.    .    . 

self;  own. 

Mrichh.  12. 

atpia 

apa,  appa 

ap 

apan 

78.103.104 

atmdnam 

mahatma-   \ 
nam           j 

appanam,    \ 
apanam     ) 

mahappa-   \ 
nanam,      1 

mahappa-    j 

. 

S'ak.  105.   . 
Prabodhach " 

12.  28.  37. 

46.  63.  68. 

1         .         • 

> 

fself;  great- 
{  souled. 

\ 

nam          ) 

_ 

Prab.  63.  .  .1 
Var.  iii.  1.  '. 

sthale 

thale 

thai 

.     .     . 

dry  land. 

Var.  iv.  15.  \ 

S'ak.  21.    .  .} 

Var.  iii.  2.  v.l 

14.  vi.  60.  .j 

asru 

amsu,  assu 

ansu 

asum,  aau 

tear. 

agmm 

aggim 

5g 

ag 

fire. 

Var.  iii.  60.  1 
Lassen,  284.) 

hriya 

kiria 

kiriya 

.     .     . 

ceremony. 

Var.  iii.  8.  .    . 

brahmano 

vamhano 

bamhan 

baman 

Brahman. 

Var.  iii.  25.    . 

garttah 

gaddo 

gadha 

1 

cavity. 

Var.i.l8.ii.27 

gabhTram 

gahiram 

gahira 

gahira 

deep. 

Prakrit  form  may  not  now  be  discoverable  in  any  extant  work.  Thus  the  Hindi  and 
MahrattI  word  banjh,  a  barren  woman,  is  formed  from  the  Sanskrit  bandhya,  in  the  same 
way  as  aanjh  comes  from  sandhya ;  and  as  in  the  latter  case  we  find  the  earlier  Prakrit 
form  to  have  been  aanjhS,  bo  we  may  suppose  the  older  Prakrit  form  of  banjh  to  have  been 
banjha,  or  vanjha.  And  the  same  must  have  been  the  case  in  numerous  other  instances. 
[In  fact,  since  the  above  was  written,  I  have  actually  found  the  word  vanjha,  a  barren 
woman,  in  Clough's  Pali  Grammar,  p.  37.     See  also  vanjbjhlbhuda,  Balaram.,  p.  226.] 

"  Campbell's  Telugu  Grammar,  note  to  Introduction,  p.  13. 

20  Ojha  is  the  designation  of  a  particular  tribe  of  Brahmans,  In  the  Balaramayana, 
85  if.,  the  word  has  the  form  uvajjhaa.  • 

2'  In  Persian  ««5<?«>-.  "  MahrattI  of  Nagpur.  *'  In  Persian  j)a<?aj-, 

'*  See  Lassen,  Inst.  Pracr.,  p.  315.  Burnouf  (Lotus  de  la  Bonne  Loi,  p.  660)  observes 
that  the  form  aptano  or  atpano,  which  occurs  in  the  rock  inscription  of  Girnar,  is  the 
intermediate  step  by  which  atman  was  transformed  into  appa,  appano,  etc. 


THE  D'EAMATIC  PEAKRITS. 


19 


BEFERENCES.  . 

SANSKRIT. 

FSAEKIT. 

HINDI. 

MAHRA.TTT. 

ENGLISH. 

Var.  iv.  31.    . 

malinam 

ma,ilam 

mails 

... 

dirty. 

Var.  i.  9.    .  < 

chaturthT, 
ehaturdast 

'eha,uttht,     \ 
ehoUKi         j 
eha'uddahJ,  \ 
choddahl      J 

ehauthi 
ehaifdahwln 

chrntha 
ehaudat 

'fourth. 

fourteenth, 
fourteen. 

Var.  iii.  44.    . 
Var.  ii.  41.  \ 
Mrichh.  70.  j 

poMchadaidfy 
shashtht 

pa'^nSrallo- 
chhatthi 

pandarahwdn 
ehhathi 

pamdhara 

fifteenth, 

fifteen. 

sixth. 

Var.  ii.  14.   I 
1 

ekadasa. 

earaha. 

igarah,     '  \ 

(  eleven, 

dmdasa, 

varaha, 

barah,         \ 

1  twelve. 

trayodaia 

teraha^^ 

terah           ) 

(  thirteen. 

Laes.271.3181 
Var.  vi.  59.    j 

dmayoli 

donham,       ) 
donnam        j 

donou' 

.     .     . 

of  two. 

Laseen,  318  ) 
Mrichh.101  } 
Var.  vi.  54.  ) 

dvau,  chabh- 
yam,dvayoh 

(dm,  do,  do-  V 
\  him,  dosw  j 

db 

dm 

twOi 

Lassen,  319.) 
Var.  Ti.  56.   / 

trlni 

tinm 

tin 

tm 

three. 

Lassen,  319.  . 

shat 

chha 

chha 

.    * 

sis. 

Lassen,  320. 

vimaati 

vtsa,i 

his 

wis 

twenty. 

Lassen,  320. 

trimiat 

fisaa 

tis 

tu 

thirty. 

Var.  iii.  30.  ( 
j, 

lesAanam 
kshama 

chhanam 
chhama 

chhan 
chhama 

•    •    ■ 

moment, 
patience. 

makshika 

machhia 

makkKi 

. 

a  fly. 

Var.iii.S2.iv.l 

srotas 

sotto 

sola 

stream. 

Var.  i.  12.   .  . 

nidm 

nidda 

tiind 

nJd 

sleep. 

Lassen,  246.  \ 
Var.  iii.  S3.  / 

tamram 

tamvam 

tamba 

tami  (iron  ) 
rust)        / 

copper. 

Var.  iv.  33.  \ 
Lass.  172.  n.  j 

dtthita,.dhtda 

dhlo' 

dhiya,  dhl 

fmaiden, 
\    daughter. 

Var.  iv.  25.    . 

dhanavan 

dhandlo 

dhamvala 

rich. 

Var.  i.  10.  iii.  \ 

(prastarah, 
[prastara^ 

patiharo. 

patthar  (a  ) 
stone.)      1 

patthar 

(a,  hed  :  a 
\    stone. 

12,  Mnch.7lj 

patthSro 

Var.  i.  20.  iii.  1 

mukia 

motta- 

mott 

mofim 

pearl. 

Var.iii.  3.  68 
Mrichh.  93. 

ratri 

rata 

rat 

r5t 

night. 

Var.  ii.  32.    . 

yashti 

lattKi 

mthi 

latth 

staff,  eluh. 

Var.    i.    15.  ) 

28.  iii.  41.  } 

Mrichh.  P     ) 

vrisehUcah    , 

viohchuo,      \ 
vinokhuO'     }• 

bicfiu,  bichl 

vinehu 

scorpion. 

Var.  iii.  17.  19 

suryah 

sujj'o,  suro 

suraj 

.     .     . 

the  sun. 

Var.  i.29.  Lass. 
293.  Vikr.  45. 

\pravrish 

paus 

.     .     . 

paus 

(the  rainy 
\    season. 

Var.  iii.  35. 
38.  Lass.  209 

vashpah 

vappho,        I 
vappho         ] 

bhaph 

.     .     . 

vapour. 

Var.  iii.  22.   . 

nartakah 

nattao 

nat 

nat 

a  dancer. 

Var.  iii.  24.    . 

varta 

vattS 

m 

.     .     ,. 

word. 

Lassen,  250. 
Var.  iii.  21. 

paryanka 

pallanka 

palang^^ 

palang 

hed. 

Bal.  132.  .     . 

palyankah 

pallanko 

.    .     . 

do. 

Lassen,  264.  \ 
Var.  iii.  1.12) 

ekastha 

elcattha 

ikattha 

.     .     . 

collected. 

^'  See  Prof.  Cowell's  note  on  Var.  ii.  44. 

'«  This  word  palang  means  in  Persian  also,  a  bed,  as  well  as  a  tiger. 


20 


THE  DRAMATIC  PEAKRITS. 


REPEREKCES. 

SANSKRIT. 

PRAKaiT. 

HINDI. 

MAHRATTi.. 

ENGLISH. 

Var.  iii.  12.  / 
Mrichh.  18.  \ 

mastalea 

matthaka     \ 
matthaam    ] 

matha 

matha. 

head. 

Lassen,  272.  \ 
Var.  iii.  40.  / 

matsi/a^'' 

machchha 

machchh,    \ 
machchhli  ] 

.    .    . 

fish. 

Var.  X.  10.   ) 

Lassen,  379.  [ 

leanya 

kanja,  hanja 

■     >    . 

<      .     • 

girl. 

App.  63.       ) 

- 

aham 

aham,  ham, ) 
hagge,  hani  ] 

main,  ham 

mm. 

I. 

vayam 

amhe,  vaam 

ham 

omKi 

we. 

mama 

maha,  majjha 

mujh 

majha 

mine. 

Vikr.  81.  82 
Var.  vi.  25- 
53.              < 
Cowell,  Int. 

asmakam 

tvam,  tvam  \ 
tubhyam 

amhanam 

tumam,        \ 
tumam         ] 
tujjha 

hamura       i 

tum 

tujh 

amhalS,        \ 
amhana        ) 

turn 

tw 

of  us,  [us,  by 
us,  Mahr.] 

thou. 

to  thee. 

p.  xxviii.^^ 

tava 

tuha,  tujjha\ 
tujjhaha       ] 

tujh 

tujhS, 

thine. 

yuyam 

tumhe,  tujjhe 

tvm 

tumhl 

you. 

i. 

yushmakam 

tumKdna 

tumhara 

tumhSla,      ) 
tumhana      j 

of  you,  [you, 
hy  yoUjMah.] 

Mrichh.  38.    . 

Kasya 

kaha 

kahe 

whose  P 

Var.  vi.  6.      . 

Icasyah 

kisaa 

Ms 

of  what  wo- 
man? 

Cowell,    Int.l 
xxvii.     .    ./ 

yah 

jo 

Jo' 

Jo 

who. 

Var.  iv.  16.     . 

taamin 

tahin 

.     .     . 

.     .     . 

in  this. 

Mrichh.93.96 

yatra,  tatra 

jahin,  fahinl 

jahan,  ta-  \ 
han,tahin) 

jetheihjtethem 

where,  there. 

Var.  iv.  25. 

kiyat,  ymiat 

kettia,jettia 

kitna,jitna 

kitim 

(how  much, 
(as  much. 

Mrichh.  74. 

kutra 

kahin 

kahan 

Ttothem 

where  ? 

Mrichh.  4.  51 

uttishtha     | 

utthehi         \ 
utthehi        ] 

uthna 

uthnem 

rise,  to  rise. 

Var.viii.15.61 

grihndti 

genha,i 

gahna 

ghenm 

to  take. 

Mrichh.  4.  r 

prichehha 

puehehha 

.     . 

. 

"\ 

27.&i)««.Cf.  1 

prishta 

puchchhida 

puchhna 

pusanem 

Deliiis,p.41< 

prishtva 

puchchhia 

.     .     . 

• 

^to  ask. 

Kram.,    in 

prakshyami 

puehchhissam 

. 

ditto,  p.  10.  . 

prichhati 

puchchhadi 

.     . 

. 

Var.  viii.  12. 

mriyate 

mara,i 

marna 

maranein 

to  die. 

Var.  viii.  18.  \ 

xii.l7.  Mric. 
66.103.134.  j 
pas.  Vikr.  14  J 

I  smarami 

sumarami   \ 

I  smarasi 
(  smritva 

sumaresi      > 
sumaria      ) 

svmarama 

•     •     • 

to  remember. 

Mrichh.  21. 2i 

:   samarpayasi 

samappesi 

sompna 

sompanem 

to  entrust. 

Mrichh.  14. 
131,    Vikr. 
57.97.  101 
Del.  p.  62  . 

prapita 
praptalj,      | 

pabida 
pabide,  paito 
paiiiya 

jpaya 

pavanem 

to  obtain. 

prapnomi 

pavimi 

pawia 

prapsyasi 

pavihi 

pawahi 

Var,  iii  3.  . 

prabhavati 

pabhava^i 

.     .     . 

.     .     . 

he  prevails. 

"  Machcha  also  is,  however,  given  in  Wilson's  dictionary  as  a  Sanskrit  form. 
28  [See  also  Myiohhakati  and  Vikramorvaii,  etc.,  passim.} 


THE  DEAMATIO  PRAKRITS. 


21 


BEFERENCES. 

SANSKEIT. 

PRAKRIT. 

HINDI. 

MAHRATTl. 

ENGLISH. 

bkavami 

homP^ 

huh 

1  become,  or 
am. 

Var.  vii.  20. 

21.viii.  1. 

bhmasi 

hosi 

hai 

thou  be- 
comest,  etc. 

Mrioh.  r05.< 

38.  39.   72. 
163.        .     . 

bhwoati 

, 

bhodi,hodi^°)^ 
hojja,  hojja'i] 

hai 

.       .      . 

he  becomes, 
etc. 

^    ,               ^ 

hhmanti 

honti 

haih 

they  become, 
etc. 

Prab.  p.  44. 

cmulhmanti 

■  armhavanti 

.     •     • 

they  feel, 
to  feel. 

Mriohh.  141. 

anwbhavitum 

auubhaoidum 

.     .     . 

.      .       . 

Mrichh.  21.  24 

)bhmish- 
j  yati 

{ 

huviisadi 
himissadi 

hoihi^^ 

.      .       . 

he  will  be. 

" 

! 

hossami^^  \ 

bhavish- 
yami 

hossam,        / 
hohami, 

huhgS 

horn 

I  will  be. 

Var.  vii.  12. 

[ 

hohimi 

13.  14.  15.   < 

' 

hossame, 

Lassen,  268. 

bhavtshya- 
mah 

J 

fto/iamo, 
hohimo,        > 
hohissa, 

hohge 

.     .     . 

we  will  be. 

hohittha 

f 

bJici/Dish- 

( 

hojja,  hojja 

Var.  vii.  20. 
21.       .     ." 

yati 

! 

hojjahii, 
hojjahii 

hoga 

hlU 

he  will  be. 

bhacatu 

hojja,u,        \ 
hojjau          j 

hujiye,  hujiyo 

.     .     . 

/let  bim  be ; 
\  be  (imper.). 

Var.  vii.  23. 
24.     .     . 

abhavat, 
abhut 

huvta, 
hohta 

bhaya,.  hm,\ 
hata,  tha     ] 

hota 

he  was. 

Var.  viii.  2. 

bhutam 

1 

huam          \ 
{huam  ?)     ) 
jalehi 

hua 

been. 

Mrichh.  25. 

jvalaya 

jalana 

•     .     • 

to  burn. 

Var.  viii.  13  j 

( 

karomi,       \ 

Vikr.  112.    } 

karomi 

kalemi,        > 

karta 

karitom 

I  do. 

Mrich.16.31 ) 

( 

karemi        ) 

Mrichh.  132. 
Mrichh.  31.  \ 
Vikr.  18.    .  ; 

kritam 
kritah 

( 

hade           \ 
kulu,kao^^  f 
karanto,       \ 

kara,  kiya 

kela,  kela 

done. 

Delias,    pp.  1 
27-29.   .  .  J 

kurvan 

1 

kalento, 
karento, 
kuiba.no 

karta 

karit 

doing. 

Delius,    pp.  ■ 
27-29.   .  . 

nirakritya 

nirakariya  \ 

kuriya          \ 
(Bengali.)  / 

having  un- 
done [done]. 

Delius,  p.  17) 
Mrichh.  105  1 

daddmi 

demi 

deta 

I  give. 

Mrichh.  66. 

dadaii 

dedi 

.     .     . 

he  gives. 

Var.  viii.  62.  ) 
Mrich.95.37. 

dattam 

dinnam 

diya,  dm 

given. 

Mrichh.  127. 

dadati 

dentl 

deti 

giving  (fem.). 

Mrichh.   32.  \ 
163.    .    .    .( 

margayati 

maggadi'^    \ 
maggedi        j 

mangna 

maganem 

to  ask. 

2'  From  havami,  etc. ;  see  Lassen,  p.  176.  *"  Soi,  Mrichh.  38. 

^'  Soihi,  provincial  for  hoga.  ^^  Burnouf,  Lotus, 

3'  Delius  seems  to  think  kulu  may  be  the  Prakrit  imperative. 
34  Comp.  maggo  from  marga^,  ant6,  p.  18,  Var.  ii.  2.  iii.  SO. 


102. 
687. 


22 


THE  DEAMATIO  PEAKEITS. 


RBFEREKOES. 

SANSKRIT. 

PRAKBIT. 

HINDI. 

MAHKATTl. 

BNOLISH. 

Mrichh.  79.  \ 
82.  88.  .  .  J 

rmrgayitwn 

■       —  ■                    ;, 

maggidum 

... 

.      .      • 

Mfiohh.  136  | 

margmna- 
n4na 

maggama-    \ 
nena           ) 

.      .      . 

» 

to  ask. 

Mrichh.  95.  . 

margayatah 

maggwrttassa 

... 

...  J 

Mriohh.  12.  . 
Mrichh.  61.  . 

katpai/atli 
kalpayitva 

kappedha     \ 
kappia         ] 

hapanem 

to  out. 

Var. viii.  23.  ) 
Mriohh.  36.  \ 
Del.  16.  16.  ] 

jnatva 

jdnia 

gali.)         ) 

)J^W*^ 

having  known 

Var.  viii.  66.  \ 
Deliiis,p.24.j 
Mfiohh.  37.  . 

s'rinomi  . 

s'rutva 

sunami 
dtmia           1 

«u»«^Hindi) 
irmiya 
(Bengali.) 

j... 

to  hear. 

Mri.  104. 105. 

armu 

lunu,  sunahi 

SWl 

... 

hear. 

Mnch.46.7o| 

dhav, 
dhavati 

dhovehi,        \ 
dhoadi          ) 

dhona 

dhunem 

to  vrash. 

Mrichh.  46.    . 

svapimah 

submha 

sona 

.     • 

to  sleep. 

Prasan.  65.     . 

stipta 

mtta 

soa 

. 

asleep. 

Bal.  178.   .     . 

svdps^anli 

suvissam 

si>,unga 

.     .     . 

I  shall  sleep. 

Mrich.59.122j 

Var.  viii.  25) 

Mi:ichh.  97.  \ 

Delins,  19.   . ) 

sthapay- 

itva 
sthapay- 

nmi 

thSbia,thabia 
thabemi 

thdmm 

thambanem  \ 

to  hold,  stop. 

Mriohh.  57.   ■ 

rakshami 

rakkhami 

rakhna 

rakhanem 

to  keep. 

Var.  viii.47. ) 

nrityati, . 

nachhai,      a 

Mrichh.  70.  [ 

nrityate, 

nachchladiX 

nac/md 

naohanem 

to  dance. 

71.  Del.  50.  ) 

nrityan 

nachhoMto  J 

Mriohh.  71.  . 

sikshayantah 

sikkhanta 

sikham 

.     .     . 

to  teach. 

Mrichh.  72.  . 

upmiishtah 

ubavittha 

baitha  (?) 

.     .     i 

seated. 

Cowell,  App.\ 

A.  p.  99.    .j 

S'ak.  45.  34.  \ 

Mrioh.4.80.) 

Mrichh.  80. 

Mriohh.  36.  . 

kathayati 

kahai 

ka/ma 

kathtmem 

hathaya       | 

fcathayish-  i 
yami          ) 
kathayitum 

'kahehi,        h 
kadhehi       ] 

kahissam 

.    .    , 

> 

to  teU. 

■kahida 

kaha 

.    .    . 

Mriohh.  103. 

kathyate 

Jcahijjadi 

.    •    . 

Delius,  86.  .\ 
Vikr.  2.   .   .) 

asti 

atti,  aehchi^' 

iachhe  (Ben-' 
.  gali.) 

ahe 

he  is. 

Mrichh.  99.   . 

stha 

aehchhadha 

acMo  (Beng.] 

ye  are. 

Lassen,  346. 
Cowell,  184.. 

santi 

achchanti 

achhen^Seag) 

they  are. 

Sutra  24.  in  \ 
App.  A.     .  [ 
OoweU,  99.  ) 

vadati         | 

volldi     )    \ 
i>olm      ')    f 

bolna 

bolanem 

to  speak. 

Mrichh.  105. 

brumtih 

boUamo ''    j 

Delius,  67.  . 
Mrichh.  169. 

labhante 

lahanti   ■ 

lahate,  lete 

■     •     • 

they  receive. 

''i  Mr.  Childers  thinks  the  forms  achchi,  etc.,  cannot  he  referred  to  the  Sanskrit  root  as. 
Asti,  he  says,  became  atthi  in  Pali,  but  the  Pali  achchhati  is,  he  considers,  beyond  doubt 
the  present  tense  of  as,  and  points  to  an  anomalous  form  atsati. 

36  This  alteration  of  brumali  into  bollamo  may  perhaps  be  conceived  to  have  proceeded 
by  the  following  steps :  barumah,  balumah,  bollamo.  Or  it  is  possible  that  bol  may  be 
an  indigenous  non-Sanskrit  form,  or  a  vernacular  root  retained  in  Prakrit. 


THE  DRAMATIC  PHAKRITS. 


23 


BEFERENCES. 


■1 


Mrichh.  115.| 

Mrichh.  139.  | 

Mrichh.  112. 
Var.  Tii.  7. 
Var.  vii.  1. ) 
andii.  24.  j 
Mrichh.  121.1 
Var.  viii.  51./ 
Delius,  51. 
Mrichh.  120.1 
Delius,  p.  22.) 

Mrichh.  124 

Mrichh.  71. 
Delias,  77.    ■ 
Mrichh.  170. 

Mrichh.  165. 

Var.  Tiii.  44 
Vik.l  I.Del. 
eO.Kram.lO 

Vikr.  44.   . 

Var.  viii.  4. 
S'ak.  43.168"! 
Vikr.  91.  . 
Delius,  79. 
Hemachan- 
dra,  Cowell. 
173.  note"  . 
Var.  viii.  48. 

Var.  viii.  48. 

Var.  viii.  25.  ] 
26,  Mrich.  73j 
Kram.  28.  inl 
Delius,  p.  lO.J 
Var.  viii.  46. 
Var.  viii.  50. 


Icshipatu  \ 
{phel,i.ogo)] 
durlharish- 1 
yami '  '  ] 
Jagrita 


pathati 

patami         | 
patitah 
uddayante  ''| 

paridhSsye 


J  ivami 
jivcmtam 


ivarddhate, 
{varddhatam 


tvarate 


(pasyami       ) 
{drisyami^^  j 


iudhyate 


lerudh 

rmht/ati 
mridnati 


PEAKBIT. 


jaggetha 
ga'o 

padfim 


padSmi 
padido 
uddenti 
udda'enti 


pumft 
jmmi 
JTantam 

nihkalehi 

vaddhadi 
vaddhadii 


ttivara'i 

deklcJmmi^" 
dekhavahi 

ai 


ai 
Jhdjsanjhaadi 


rum  I 
maldi  '■ 


phelitei^eng.) 

Jaffna 
gaya 

padhna 

padna 

pada 

udna 

paharna 

pma 
jma 

nilcasna 
nikalna 

badhria 

turant 
(quickly.) 


deJehna 
diJehana 


bujhna 
aamajhna  (p) 


naiyana 
malna 


MAHRATTI. 


jagcmem 


pandhara- 
nem 


11 


wadhanem 


dakhavinm 


tanem 
im'hanem 


ENGLISH. 


to  throw. 

fl  shaU.  re- 
[  move, 
to  wake, 
gone. 

to  read. 

to  faU. 

fallen. 

to  fly. 

to  put  on 

(clothing), 
to  drink. 

to  live, 
to  put  out. 

to  increase. 

hasten, 
he  hastens. 


to  see. 
'to  cause  to 
see. 

to  fight :   he 

kiUed. 
to  under- 
stand, 
/to  meditate, 
(understand, 

to  be  angry. 

to  he  angry. 
to  grind,  rub. 


"  Perhaps  derived  from  prer,  to  impel.  Comp.  pellanena  and  vellanena,  rendered  by 
preranena,  in  the  Balar.,  p.  203.     Both  roots  are  given  in  the  lexicons. 

38  Prof.  Aufrecht  draws  my  attention  to  the  fact  that,  in  the  Vedas,  the  root  signifying 
"to  fly"  is  not  di,  but  di.  See  also  the  intensive  form  of  the  verb  in  dediyitmai, 
S'atapatha  Brahmana,  v.  3,  2,  6,  quoted  by  Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  s.v. 

''  This  form  may  at  one  time  have  been  in  use. 

*°  This  word  occurs  on  the  Lat  of  Firoz  Shah  in  the  forms  dekhati  and  dekhiye,  and  in 
the  form  dekhami  in  the  inscription  at  Dhauli.  See  Burnouf,  Lotus  de  la  bonne  Loi, 
pp.  666,  669,  671,  676,  who  supposes  dekhati  may  come  from  an  old  form  drUyati,  he  sees. 
Mr.  Childers  thinks,  however,  it  must  come  from  the  Sanskrit  future  drakshyate. 

*'  See  also  Kramadis'vara,  39,  in  Delius,  p.  11,  where  the  sooi  mrid  is  said  to  become 
man  in  Prakrit.    In  Persian  also  the  verb  maltdan  means  to  rub. 


24' 

THE  DRAMATIC  PRAKRITS 

m 

KEPEEBNCES. 

SANSKRIT. 

PRAKRIT. 

HINDI. 

MAHRATTi. 

ENQLISH. 

Var.  viii.  53l| 

sphut           1 
iadkyanU 

phuttdi,        \ 
phuddi          ] 

bnjjhanti 

phutna 

phutanem 

to  split. 

MricKTO.?.) 
Delius,  59.    j 

bajhna 

.    .    . 

to  be  bound 
or  caught. 

Var.  viii.<27. 

Jehad 

Icha 

khuna 

hhanem 

to  eat. 

Delius,  29.  .  \ 
Malavika,54.j 

parayami 

paremi         X 

parite  (Ben- 
gali.) 

).-.. 

to  be  able 

Prasanna-      f 
raghava,  45\ 

pragliunasya 
prahunasya 

Wahwmssa^A 

pahun 
pahurtd 

a  gueet. 

Balaramayana 
266. 

palcshinah 

pakhlchim 

pakheru        \ 
panchhi       ] 

birds. 

Bal.  290. 

ksHirOf 

hhira 

khir 

milk. 

Bal.  231.  235. 

lahshah 

Idkhha 

lakh 

/hundred 
(thousand. 

eye 

Bal.  45.  307. 

ahahi 

(achchhi 
\akkhi 

ankh 

Bal.  246. 

Jcahsha 

hakkha 

side. 

Bal.  53.  69.  98 

gotra 

gotta 

got 

family,  clan. 

Bal.  267. 

sutra 

sutta 

sut 

thread. 

Bal.  165.167.1 
297.              f 

putra,  putn 

putta,  putt! 

put 

son,  daughter 

Bal.  221. 

Jcarpasa 

happasa 

kapcs 

cotton. 

Bsl.  142.  178. 

karpura 

kappura 

kapur 

camphor. 

Bal.  269.  298. 

dharma 

dhcuinma 

virtue 

Bal.  294. 

darpanam 

dappanam 

a  mirror. 

Bal.  267. 

nirvana 

nivvana 

extinction. 

Bal.  76.  194. 

dugdha 

duddha 

dudh 

milk. 

Bal.  266.       1 

mugd'ha 

mudhdha 

infatuated. 

snigdha 

sinidhdha 

affectionate. 

Bal.  236. 

pippala     . 

ptpala 

pJpal 

pipal  tree. 

Bal.  178. 
Prasannaragh 

mishta 
mishta 

miththa 
mitthi 

mlttha 

sweet. 

Bal.  270.  278. 

oshtha 

iuththa,        \ 
\oththa          j 
sasurena 

honth 

lip. 

Bal.  156.  303. 

svasurena 

sasur 

father-in-law 

Bal.  163. 

s'tiasru 

sasue 

SOS 

/mother-in- 
(  law. 

Bal.  158. 

svasrurmm 

sSsunam 

sas 

Do.  gen.  pi. 

Bal.  182. 

bhru 

bhu 

bhaun 

eyebrow. 

Bal.  168. 176. 

snusha 

sum,  susa 

/daughter-in- 
(  law. 

Bal.  34.  179.\ 
234.245.364./ 

sahdah 

saddo 

sound. 

Bal.  245.  251. 

mudgm-a 

mogara 

imogra,         \ 
\mudgar        J 

a  mallet. 

Bal.  235. 

dhuma 

dhusa 

dhixan 

smoke. 

Bal.  238. 

padayoh 

paesu 

pnnw 

at  the  feet. 

*2  The  word  is  translated  by  atitheh  in  Pandit  Govinda  Deva's  edition.  But  I  find  the 
word  praghuna  in  'Wilson's  Dictionary  in  the  sense  of  guest ;  and  Bohtlingk  and  Roth 
give  both  that  and  another  form  prahima.  As,  however,  they  do  not  cite  from  any  very 
ancient  author  any  passage  in  which  the  word  is  found,  and  as  it  is  of  rare  occurrence  as 
compared  with  atithi,  it  may  perhaps  have  been  imported  into  Sanskrit  from  Prakrit. 
Fahuna,  in  the  sense  of  "guest,"  is,  Mr.  Childers  informs  me,  a  good  Pali  word, 


THE  DEAMATIC  PRAKRITS. 


25 


KEFBKENCES. 

SANSKRIT. 

PRAKRIT. 

HINDI. 

MAHRATTl. 

ENOLISH. 

Bal.  142.  292. 

pahva 

pikka 

pakka 

mature. 

Pras.  48. 

murkha 

murukha 

murakh 

fool. 

Bal.49.93.270 

jhatiti 

jhatti 

jhat 

quickly. 

Bal.  246.  270. 

diraaa 

sirena 

sir 

head. 

Bal.  77. 

hatham 

kisa 

\kaisa 

Prasan.  36.44. 

katham 

kaham 

how? 

Prasan.  26. 

vyaghraaya 

mghghassa 

bagh 

a  tiger. 

Prasau.  84. 
Bal.  76.  238. 

stana 

tthana,  thana 

than 

\ 

female  hreast, 
udder. 

Ba.  168. 

jihm 

jiha 

pbh 

tongue. 

Bal.  276. 

kamsya 

kanisa 

Tains 

bell  metal. 

Var.  viii.  6. 
Bal.  76. 

ghurnat 

gholanta 

rolling. 

Bal.  238. 
Bal.  246. 

ghurnanti 
ghurnati 

gholanti 
ghunnadi 

gholna  (to 

>  mix  with 

a  liquid.) 

roll,  move, 
turns  round. 

Bal.  143. 

churnitam 

ghullalidam 

fpounded, 
(crushed. 

Mrichh.  3. 

ahuya 

Sttddabia  *3 

.     .     . 

■       ■       '       1 

having  called, 
summoned. 

Mrichh.  60. 

ahvayami 

aaddaiemi 

>     *     . 

. 

I  call. 

Mrichh.  54. 

ahvaya 

aaddabehi 

. 

*       ■       ■ 

call  (imper.). 

Mrichh.  54.  / 
141.            \ 

ajnapayati  \ 
ah/oayati      ] 

aaddabedi 

.     .     . 

.        .        . 

(he  com- 
(mands,  calls. 

Mrichh.  60.  1 

akarayish-  \ 
yami          ) 

aaddabdiaiam 

jlshaU 
(  summon. 

Mrichh.  150. 

ahuyate 

aaddabtadi 

he  is  called. 

Mrich.  6. 

sprishtva 

chhibia  " 

chhund  {?)   1 
(to  touch)  / 

.        .        . 

(having 
(  touched. 

Mrichh.  35. 

ves'ya 

aosama  *' 

a  harlot. 

[N.B. — In  this  and  the  following;  list,  it  will  be  seen  that  I  have  generally  given  the , 
Hindi  and  MahrattI  verbs  in  the  infinitive,  without  reference  to  the  mood  or  tense  of 
the  corresponding  word  in  Prakrit.    The  verbs  in  the  Sanskrit  column,  on  the  contrary, 
are  always  exact  renderings  of  the  Prakrit  ones,  in  tense,  number,  person,  etc.] 

*^  This  word  is,  no  doubt,  as  Mr.  Childers  suggests,  from  the  Sanskrit  iabdapay  (see 
above  the  alteration  of  aabda  into  sadda).  The  word  aabddpayet  occurs  in  the  Eama- 
■yana,  ii.  57,  9,  Schlegel's  ed.,  and  in  ii.  69,  3,  of  the  Bombay  ed.,  where  the  commentary 
explains  the  word  by  aka/rayet,  "  summon."  In  Gorresio's  ed.,  ii.  59,  6,  the  verb  ahvayet, 
having  the  same  sense,  is  substituted.  Forms  like  iabdapay  are,  as  Prof.  Aufrecht  informs 
me,  very  common  in  the  later  Sanskrit. 

**  A  various  reading  is  bibia.  Mr.  Childers  thinks  chhibia  comes  from  the  Sanskrit 
chhitp,  "  to  touch."  This  root  is  given,  he  tells  me,  in  Clough's  list  of  Pali  verbs  in  the 
sense  of  "  to  touch ;  "  and  the  word  occurs  in  the  Dhammapada,  p.  156,  line  1. 

*'  This  word  is,  no  doubt,  derived  from  goavamim,  the  wife  of  a  Gosvamin,  or  Goshaiu ; 
and  I  am  told  by  a  well-informed  friend  that  the  word  has  got  the  sense  of  harlot  fi'om 
the  indifferent  character  of  some  of  these  female  devotees. 


26  THE  DRAMATIC  PEAKRITS. 

It  is  thus  clear  from  an  examination  of  the  Indian  dramas,  and  of  the 
examples  furnished  by  the  grammarians  who  treat  of  the  dramatic  dialects 
(as  illustrated  in  ttie  preceding  comparative  table),  that  the  -vrords  which 
we  find  in  Prakrit  are  ia  great  part  identical  with  those  of  Sanskrit,  but 
more  or  less  modified  in  their  forms,  and  that  these  modifications  are,  in 
numerous  instances,  intermediate  between  the  original  Sanskrit  words  and 
the  stni  more  corrupted  forms  which  we  discover  in  the  languages  descended 
from  the  Prakrits,  I  mean,  in  the  modem  vernacular  dialects. 

But,  while  the  great  majority  of  Prakrit  words  can,  by  the  application 
of  proper  methods,  be  traced  back  to  a  Sanskrit  source,  there  are  some 
others  which  refuse  to  yield  to  the  action  of  even  the  most  powerful 
tests  which  criticism  can  employ,  and  successfully  assert  their  claim  to 
an  origin  iadependent  of  classical  Sanskrit,  and  which  we  must  therefore 
conclude  either  to  belong  to  the  vernacular  Aryan  speech,  or  to  be  of 
non- Aryan  derivation. 

Another  fact  then  which  is  made  clear  by  the  examination  of 'the 
dramatic  poems  and  the  Prakyit  grammarians  is,  that  the  Prakrit  dialects 
contain  a  certain  number  of  words  which  are  not  discoverable  in  classical 
Sanskrit,  but  which  we  also  find  in  the  modem  vernaculars,  such  as  the 
roots  duh,  to  sink,  tharhar  (in  Hindi  tharthar),  to  tremble,  dhakk,  to  cover 
or  shut,  and  the  nouns  gor,  leg,  lappa,  father,  etc."  The  greater  portion 
of  the  words  of  this  class,  which  I  have  discovered,  will  be  found  in  the  sub- 
joined table.  [In  the  present  edition  I  have  added,  at  the  foot  of  the  table, 
a  number  of  new  words,  some  of  which,  however,  I  find,  may  be  derived 
from  Sanskrit,  but  few  of  which  are  discoverable  in  the  modem  vernaculars.] 

*"  See  the  Key.  H.  Ballantine's  paper  "  On  the  relation  of  the  Mahratti  to  the  Sanskrit," 
in  the  Journal  of  the  American  Oriental  Society,  vol.  iii.  p.  369-386.  Some  of  the 
words  considered  by  Mr.  Ballantine  to  be  Mahratti  are,  however,  Persian  or  Arabic,  such 
as  mehh,  baghal,  manzila;  others,  as  khane,  to  eat,  are  Sanskrit.  I  add  the  following 
remarks  from  Dr.  J.  "Wilson's  "Kotes  on  the  Constituent  Elements,"  etc.,  of  the  MarathI 
language  (prefixed  to  Molesworth's  Marathi  Dictionary,  2nd  edition),  p.  xxii.  [The 
Marathi  language]  "  has  two  distinct  lingual  elements,  the  Scythian  (or  Turanian)  and 
the  Sanskrit."  .  .  .  "The  Scythian  element  .  .  is  obviously  the  more  ancient 
of  the  two,  as  far  as  its  present  locality  is  concerned.  It  is  still  a  good  deal  in  use, 
especially  among  the  lower  orders  of  the  people,  and  in  the  business  of  common  life. 
It  claims  almost  all  the  words  beginning  with  the  cerebral  letters,  which,  as  initials, 
were  probably  not  originally  in  use  in  the  Sanskrit;  almost  all  the  words  beginning 
with  the  letter  Jh;  and  a  great  majority  of  the  words  formed  from  imitative  particles, 
both  simple  and  reduplicated,  which  are  often  very  expressive,  and  are  not  now  of  an 
arbitrary  character,  whatever  they  might  have  been  before  they  got  established  in  the 


THE  BEAJCATIC  FSiKBnS. 


Tabi£  ^o.  n. 

Lut  «f  PrStrit  word*,  ehiefy  from  the  Jtriekkakan  ami  tJu  grammu.rimu, 
tekieh  are  not  fnmi  in  eianieal  Samskrit,  or  are  of  doubtful  origin, 
mtk  fhm-  wuierm  venutadar  equiraUnU,  kJuh  aseertaitud. 


SEFEBEXCXS.    '     SiSSKSTT. 


-i- 


iiiAi>i. 


M«hh.ii9.|:'2^"^-- 

lliicli.80.  lOK  pBimm. 
3Indi.72.112   mdtra 


lbidih.3a.    J 
Kpddi.  40.   4  tUmtiha 

36.  167.    .  I 

Mridih.  12-S.i 

An.,  299.  A 

Vndji.  17a. 

Tir.  p.  79.    . 


w* 


rcaaA 

Up^ik.  100.  j  nJakata 

Sbidli.  141.  pnlsampaU 
Tar.Tin.68.)  ; 

ArKiam-in  y    majjaii 

DelhK,  ll.> 
llnd.162.317!  m^jmlmm, 

lIik]ilL36u  ^,  pidkehi 
79.164.    ..{jjmOalte 
Vait.  58.     {;  pUutam 


hmppa-te- 

faicm 
p^ta,fetta 

chhaSUa 

geio 

laiiam 

kmde 
ua 

fkartmrtH^ 
khupptn 


iiSpJce 
liap  karle 
gad 

p4,p<>C 

eiiimal 
JOuma 


) 


{timdal 


joimid 

ihartA'arana 

',Kidm» 
dubna 


dJakkaiha      ^  ihahm 
dluUdde        )  '  { 


foot,  kg. 
bdlf. 

!    badot. 


Uken^ 


a  silent  tasie. 

...         dog.  j 

.     .     .         look.  I 

I  vj  iratcli :      ' 
'l>5i  out  for. 
UtartharmiifA  to  tremble. 


dkankn  (a 
Hdureom] 

jhanhani-m 
[to  oarer' 


to  sink. 


'  to  eoTer  or 
1      shot. 


urn*  laqaem^  of  fte  people  bj  irbnn  tliey  were  ongiDallj  fimned."  .  .  .  "Tbe 
■SamikTTt  dfment  &  fliat  irbidi  predomxnates  in  tee  Uaradu,  as  the  ingieefioD  of 
tile  Dietioiiarj  at  onee  ^un^."  .  .  '-Colebrooke  eipresses  it  as  his  opinion  tiiat 'mne- 
taiflis  of  die  Hindi  dialed  may  be  traced  back  to  the  Sanskrit ; '  and  psbs^  a  dmilar 
obeerratiffli  maj  be  jiEtlj  made  as  to  the  proportioii  of  Sanskri:  words  in  the  3Iaiatlit, 
vbai  both  ^imitzFe  and  modified  fimns  are  takesa  into  die  aecomit." 

''  About  file  affix,  ielake  or  fanfe,  see  TaasMi^  p.  llg. 

*3  In  Holesvor&'s  Mahtatti  Dietionary,  this  wmd  ^  set  down  s  derrred  £nom  tiie 
imiAnt peUi ;  but  die  odIj  soise  asigned  to  this  w<sd  in  Wilson's  Sai^cdt  Dictiraiary 
6  fiiat  of  tmka. 

<9  Stenzlo's  Sbuhhakatl,  p.  299. 

^  In  Wilson's  Sanskrit  Dietionary  die  ■watAjoiigata  is  given  as  a  noon,  widi  the  sense 
rf  "longing  for;"  wbidi  may  possibly  be  eonneeted  with  dns  word. 

*•  VaA.  Bai&y,  m  hk  reriew  of  die  first  edition  of  tliis  Tolnme,  in  the  "  Gott.  GeL 
Anzogen"  tac  Jannarr  23rd,  1861,  p.  132,  conaders  diis  root  to  be  connected  with  the 
Sanscrit  iarala,  "trembling,"  and  the  participle  tartwvna  (irom  the  root  tur\  whidi 
occms  in  Big  Teda,  ix.  93,  3,  where  it  has,  aceordiiig  to  Bohtlingk  and  Both's  Lexicon, 
the  sense  of  "nt^ung  forward." 

^  Wilsrai  and  BohtUiigk  and  Bodi  gire  a  root  dhakk,  with  the  signification  to 


28 


THE  DRAMATIC  PEAERTTS. 


KEfEKENCES. 

SANSKRIT. 

PRAKRIT. 

HINDi. 

mahkattI. 

ESOUSH. 

Mrioh.  118.   ( 

mi              j 

yhtt^aha- 
iisom 

S  yha^rtS 

yha^auem 

to  fobricate. 

J_^-    ■      \  *i5n,y« 

gha^Uhi " 

(to  draw. , 
\(Steiiz.  298.) 

MTichb.  122.     ;ia<-iAa»t«' 

va44Aami 

o4i»mem 

Kramad.  in  (   »jf «'' 

yhSntna 

yhotamfSi 

to  sit. 

to  drink,  gulp 

to  throw. 

Yar.  viii.  64. 

kntdh 

>»■" 

to  be  angry, 
to  be  afraid. 

Tar.  Tiii.  66. 

irasyati 

CT^ai 

Var.  Tiii.  28.  \'  ^^^, 
Delius,  p.  6. 1   l"^"' 

vis,  ghis  " 

to  eat. 

Var.  viii.  20. 

gArS 

pa 

to  smell. 

Var.  Tiii.  67. 

mra 

luhh,  swp 

• 

to  cleanse. 

Var.  Tiii.  69. 

drid 

pulaa 

to  see. 

Prasanua-    \ 

rSghaTa,     ( 

vilokaytm 

pulovanto 

seeing. 

11.13.113.  ( 

vilohaya 

puloveAi 

see. 

115.       ; 

Var.  Tiii.  70. 

s«k 

tar,  vaa,  ttr 

... 

... 

to  be  able. 

Mrichh.  21. .{ 

sphotayish- 
if'iimi 

ma4imta4a- 
»h'am 

1 

(I  shall 

1    split." 

"  destroy ;"  but  the  dh  is  the  dental,  not  the  cerebral,  letter.  I  haTO  withdrawn  irom  the 
table  the  word  ianelt,  as  it  is  found  in  Sanskrit  as  well  as  Prukfit  sentences  in  the 
Mrichhakatl. 

"  This  may  come  from  the  Sanskrit  root  yhat,  "  to  act." 

'*  Delius,  p.  12,  thinks  that  these  roots  may  have  been  disused  in  Sanskrit. 

"  Prof.  Benfey,  in  the  reTiew  aboTe  quoted,  regards  this  word  as  connected  with  the 
Sanskrit  root /car,  and  the  adjectiTe /rara,  "  excited,"  "in  a  passion." 

'^  See  Mr.  Cowell's  note  5,  on  p.  73,  where  he  supposes  that  Delius's  reading  ghis  is 
probably  incorrect.  In  his  Index,  p.  202,  howeTer,  Mr.  Cowell  places  a  mark  of  interro- 
gation after  visai. 

"  'While  this  table  is  passing  through  the  press,  I  haTO  been  fiiToured  with  the  follow- 
ing remarks  on  some  of  the  words  by  Mr.  E.  C.  Childers.  "  Bappa,  B&p — In  Simhalese 
Appd  is  '  father,'  and  Bdppd  '  uncle.'  The  latter  word  is  a  corruption  of  bdta-appd,  as  is 
shown  by  the  corresponding  Bdlammd,  '  aunt.' — Pota,  Pet — I  think  this  may  well  be  the 
Sanskrit  Peia,  compare  the  Tarious  meanings  of  Koshtha.  The  Italian  for  a  man's  head 
is  testa,  properly  an  earthen  pot.  It  is  singular  that  the  Sirnhalese  for  '  belly '  is  Ba^a, 
which,  however,  cannot  he  peta ;  it  would  rather  represent  bhanda,  but  I  am  yery  doubtful 
about  its  etymology.  —  Chhin&li& — ^Clough,  in  the  Simhalese  dictionary,  gives  under 
Chhimta,  the  meaning  'harlot.'  Could  ndli  be  the  Sanskrit  moVI? — XJa, 'look,' — I  do 
not  know  how  this  word  is  used,  but  might  it  not  be  simply  an  interjection  ? — phakkhehi, 
— The  Sanskrit  root  ^Stag'  is  Thak  in  P&li  (Jihaketi  'he  coTers,'  thakana'm,  'a  coTering'). 
But  Clough  gives  '  concealment '  as  one  of  the  meanings  of  ^hakka. — Ghad&bais's'am — ^This 
must  be  a  causatiTe  of  '  ghat ' :  Ghatdpeti, '  he  fabricates,'  occurs  in  P&li  (see  D' Alwis  Intr. 
p.  35).— Vaddhimi, '  to  draw,' — Compare  Tumour's  Mahfivamsa,  p.  160,  line  1  and  erratum, 
Ktmtam  vad4hetha  bko,  'pull  up  the  lance,'  which  seems  to  have  been  stuck  in  the 
ground  (see  previous  page). — Vijj,  'to  throw,' — Could  this  be  'vyadh'f  The  present 
tense  in  P&li  is  vijjhati. — Vajjai,  '  to  fear,' — Could  this  be  '  Tfij '  (P&li  v(^at%),  in  the 
sense  of  'to  shrink  from'  ? — Pul,  'to  see" — This  must  be  the  Simhalese  Ma-navd  'to 
see,'  the  etymology  of  which  I  have  not  succeeded  in  tracing." 


THE  DRAMATIC  PEAXRITS. 


29 


BEFERENCEB, 


MAHRATTl. 


)f 


Mpiohh.  17. 

Myiohh.  43. 

Mriohb.  101. 
159. 

Mrichh.  127. 

Mriohh.  134.  ( 

Bal.  66f.  74  \ 
240.  ) 

Bal.  194. 
Bal.  86. 
Bal.  195.  264, 

Bal.  249. 

Bal.  240. 
Bal.  264. 
Bal.  198. 

Bal.  203. 

Bal.  243. 

Bal.  2fil. 
Bal.  276. 
Bal.  246. 

Bal.  246. 

Bal.  259. 
Bal.  198. 


bhakta 


chiniaparah 
ehinlayulctah 

bale 


chhalli  *' 

sassct- 
palalcJca 

tatUloifirtan- 
iilo),  tattila 


'■) 


/canti 

pankti 

gaja 

sulcti 

trasta 

mis'rita 

patita 

mmuhah 

dreshtha 

nartalci 

churnita 

mis'ram 

spardaih 
(dutkaraih 
{dutkuruta^ 

lalata 

iobhita 


rincholt 

rioholi 

dog/ia((a 

sippi 

ohamakanta^" 

kallabida 
palotta 


sip,  aipi 
(chamakna  (to 
Iglitter,  start) 


garilla  °* 

taraththt 

ohuapania 

vidurillam 

jhadappehim 

dukkarehim 

dukkanti 

nidola  *'     [oa 

changoththia 


Xt.bskaron 
ythonkte  ? 


boiled  rice 
a  rioter  in 
grain  (spoken 
of  an  ox). 


0  young 
female ! 

1  BhaU  wash. 

brilliance. 

a  row. 

an  elephant. 

a  shell. 

alarmed. 

mixed, 
fallen, 
assemblages, 
(most  excel- 
[  lent. 
;a  dancing 
I  girl, 
pounded, 
mingled, 
contacts, 
(they  beat 
\  with  blows? 
forehead, 
beautified. 


[N.B.— See  other  non-Sanskrit  roots,  or  roots  of  doubtful  origin,  used  in  Prakrit,  in 
Vararuchi,  viii.  18,  21,  23,  34,  35,  39,  40.] 

68  Wilson  gives  challi,  with  the  sense  of  "rind,"  "bark." 

60  Here  the  ksh  of  the  Sanskrit  may  be  changed  into  g.  The  PaU  form,  Mr.  Childers 
tells  me,  is  khalayiasami,  which  he  thinks  may  supply  a  link  between  the  two  words  in  the 
Table.  But  the  Balaramayaua,  p.  48,  has  pakkhalana  for  the  Sanskrit  prakshalana  and 
the  Prasannaraghava,  p.  124,  has  ehohhalaa  for  the  Sanskrit  hshalaya. 

6"  The  word  also  occurs  in  p.  243  of  the  same  drama,  in  the  forms  chamakkanta  and 
chamakkida,  where  it  is  explained  in  the  commentary  by  chamakrita,  "  astonished." 

61  This  may  possibly  be  a  mistake  of  the  copyist  for  garith(ha  (garishthaj ,  which  occui-s 
in  page  224. 

62  Mr.  Childers  suggests  that  nidola  is  probably  only  an  altered  form  of  lalafa,  as  in 
Pali  nalata  is  a  more  common  form  than  lalata,  while  metathesis  would  account  for  the 
most  important  remaining  variation.  ,   ^  i,    w^ 

63  The  Sanskrit  lexicons  have  changa  in  the  sense  of  beautifal ;  but  from  what  the  latter 
part  of  the  word  is  derived,  I  do  not  see. 


30  THE  DRAMATIC  PEAERITS. 

It  is  true  that  these  vernacular  ■words^  oceurring  in  the  dramas, 
are  few  in  number;  that  many  vocables,  very  unlike  the  Sanskrit, 
which  seem,  on  a  hasty  inspection,  to  be  of  a  different  origin,  are 
discovered,  on  a  more  careful  examination,  to  be  derived  from  that 
language  by  successive  steps  proceeding  according  to  certain  recognized 
rules  of  mutation ;  and  that  the  words,,  not  deducible  from  the  written 
Sanskrit,  which  remain,,  do  not  bear  so  large  a  proportion  to  those  which 
are  of  Sanskrit  origin,  as  is  the  case  in  the  modern  vernaculars."*  This 
paucity  of  such  words  in  the  dramas  is,  perhaps,  to  be  accounted  for 
by  the  fact  that  they  are  polished  compositions  containing  many  poeti- 
cal passages,  and  were  written  by  Pandits,  men  familiar  with  Sanskrit, 
who  would  be  likely,  when  they  could,  to  avoid  vulgar  words  and 
phrases,  and  to  employ  vocables  of  Sanskrit  derivation,  wherever  it 
was  found  possible :  just  as  we  see  the  pedantic  Pandits  of  our  own 
time  are  in  the  habit  of  doingj^  And  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  in 
the  provincial  dialects,  as  spoken  by  the  lower  classes  and  by  un- 
learned persons  in  general  at  the  time  when  the  dramas  were  com- 
posed, many  more  non-Sanskrit  words  would  be  current  than  we  meet 
with  in  the  dramas.  In  the  same  way  we  find  in  modern  times  several 
modifications  of  language  in  use  among  different  sections  of  the  com- 
munity in  the  same  provinces  of  Hindustan.  The  Hindu  Pandits,  for 
instance,  use  a  dialect  which  is  full  of  Sanskrit  words;  the  villagers 
use  fewer  Sanskrit  and  more  indigenous  words ;  the  lower  Mahomedans 
use  a  language  approaching  to  that  of  the  Hindu  villagers,  but  with  more 
Persian  and  Arabic  words;  while  educated  Mahomedans  introduce  into 
their  discourse  a  large  number  of  Arabic  and  Persian  words  and  phrases. 
But  the  existence  of  even  a  small  proportion  of  such  non-Sanskrit  words 

8*  Lassen  remarks,  p.  286  r  "  The  roots  of  the  Prakrits  must  be  looked  for  in 
Sanskrit;  and  the  few  words  which  appear  to  be  of  extraneous  origin  can,  for  the 
most  part,  be  traced  to  Sanskrit,  if  the  investigation  is  pursued  on  right  principles. 
At  the  same  time  I  would  not  entirely  deny  that  some  vocables  may  have  passed  from 
the  indigenous  languages  of  India  into  the  Sanskrit  as  well  as  the  Prakrit;  but  such 
words  are  certainly  not  numerous."  Lassen  may  not  underrate  here  the  number  of 
purely  indigenous  words  in  the  Prakrits,  as  they  are  exhibited  in  the  dramas,  but  his 
remarks  are  not  certainly  correct  if  applied  to  the  modern  vernaculars,  in  which 
words  not  derived  from  Sanskrit,  and  which  must  have  come  down  to  them  from  the 
vernacular  Prakrits,  are  very  numerous. 

65  Compare  the  case  of  English,  like  that  of  Dr.  Samuel  Johnson,  full  of  Latin 
and  Greek  derivatives,  with  other  compositions  in  which  Anglo-Saxon  predominates. 


THE  DRAMATIC  PRAKRITS.  31 

in  the  dramas,  -when  taken  in  conjunction  with  the  corrupted  form, — 
akin  to  that  of  the  modem  vernaculars, — in  which  we  find  Sanskrit 
words  employed  there,  appears  sufficient  to  show  that  the  Prakrits, 
such  as  we  see  them  in  the  dramas,  were,  in  a  more  or  less  modified 
form,  the  spoken  dialects  of  their  day ;  and  were  consequently  the 
precursors  of  the  modern  yernacular  tongues.  As  we  find  in  these 
latter  a  considerable  proportion  of  words  which  cannot  be  traced  back 
to  classical  Sanskrit,  we  are  led  to  conclude  that  these  words  must 
have  existed  in  the  older  vernacular  dialects,  and  have  been  trans- 
mitted from  them  to  the  later.  The  only  alternative  is  that  we 
suppose  these  non-Sanskrit  words  to  have  been  invented  in  modem 
times,  a  supposition  which  is  destitute  of  all  probability.™ 

The  question,  already  proposed  in  p.  7,  now  recurs,  Whence  came 
these  words  which  are  met  with  in  the  Prakrit  dialects  and  the  still 
larger  number  discoverable  in  the  modern  vernacular  tongues,  which 
are  not  found  in  classical  Sanskrit?  In  answer  to  this  question  two 
suppositions  have  been  already  made.  It  has  been  suggested,  p.  7, 
that  these  words  are  either  (1)  colloquial  vocables  of  Aryan  origin 
(a  view  which  is  adopted  by  Mr.  Beames  in  the  passage  quoted  in 
p.  8),  or  (2)  that  they  have  been  borrowed  from  the  language  of 
non- Aryan  tribes  with  which  the  Aryans  came  into  contact.  For  I 
must  here  anticipate  an  assertion  which  I  hope  further  on  to  prove 
more  in  detail,  viz.,  that  there  are  in  India  very  manifest  traces  of 
a  variety  of  races  of  men  diflfering  widely  in  their  origin. 

It  appears  that  the  ancestors  of  the  higher  classes  of  northern 

Hindus,  who  originally  spoke  Sanskrit  and  called  themselves  Aryas, 

must  have  had  their  origin  in  countries  to  the  north  or  west  of  India, 

and  immigrated  into  Hindustan  at  an  early  period.    When  they  arrived 

there,  they  found  the  country  already  occupied  by  a  race  of  men  called 

in  the  Veda  and  Mahabharata,  Dasyus,  who  spoke  a  different  language 

from  themselves,  and  with  whom  they  became  engaged  in  continual 
f 

66  Even  if  it  ■were  to  be  admitted  that  the  Pali  and  the  scenic  dialects  were  never 
identical  with  the  spoken  vernaculars,  this  would  not  neutralize  my  argument.  For 
the  Prakrits  must  have  been  used  on  the  stage,  and  must  therefore  have  been  under- 
stood. They  could  not,  however,  have  been  intelligible,  if  they  had  not  approached 
closely  to  some-form  of  spoken  language.  And  the  existence  of  the  Pali,  as  well  as 
of  the  Prakrits,  shows  both  the  general  tendency  of  men  to  break  down  and  modify 
their  languages,  and  the  actual  process  by  which  they  proceeded  in  northern  India. 


32  THE  DEAMATIC  PKAKRITS. 

warfare.  These  Dasyus  appear  to  tave  been  partly  driven  away  by 
the  Aryas  to  the  east  and  south  and  north,  where  they  took  refuge  in 
the  forests  and  mountains,  and  partly  to  have  been  subdued  and  to 
have  become  incorporated  in  the  Aryan  communities  as  their  slaves  or 
dependents.  Though  these  earlier  inhabitants  of  India  also  had,  in 
all  probability,  immigrated  into  that  country  at  some  period  anterior 
to  the  invasion  of  the  Aryas,  I  shall,  for  the  sake  of  ready  distinction, 
style  them  the  aborigines.  These  aboriginal  tribes  may  not  have  been 
all  of  one  race,  and  may  have  arrived  in  India  at  diiFerent  times,  but 
their  history  is  very  obscure,  and  can  only  be  conjectured.  So  much 
is  clear,  that  their  languages  are  not  all  alike.  In  the  south  of  India 
we  find  still  existing  a  set  of  spoken  languages  called  Tamil,  Telugu, 
Canarese,  Malayalim,  etc.,  which  differ  very  widely  from  the  verna- 
cular tongues  of  northern  India,  viz.,  the  Mahratti,  Hindi,  Bengali, 
etc.  Though  the  southern  languages  have  now  a  certain  intermixture 
of  Sanskrit  words,  yet  it  is  clear  that  this  intermixture  is  only  of 
comparatively  recent  date,  as  those  languages  differ  entirely  both  in 
structure  and  in  the  great  bulk  of  the  words  of  which  they  are  com- 
posed from  the  Sanskrit,  and  all  its  derivative  languages.  The  dialects 
of  northern  and  central  India,  on  the  other  hand,  viz.,  the  Mahratti, 
Hindi,  Bengali,  etc.,  are,  as  we  have  already  seen,  mainly  derived 
from  classical  Sanskrit,  though  they  contain  a  considerable  proportion 
of  words  which  are  evidently  of  a  different  origin.  These  words  of 
non-Sanskrit  origin,  which  we  first  discover,  to  a  certain  extent,  in 
the  ancient  Prakrits,  and  which  descended  from  them  to  the  northern 
vernaculars,  must  (1)  either  have  formed  a  part  of  the  colloquial  speech 
of  the  Aryas,  which  did  not  pass  into  their  literary  language ;  or  (2) 
they  have  been  derived  from  the  language  spoken  by  the  aborigines,  who 
had  occupied  the  south  as  weU  as  north  of  India  before  the  Sanskrit-  • 
speaking  race  of  the  Aryas  arrived ;  or  (3)  they  most  probably  came 
partly  from  the  one  and  partly  from  the  other  of  these  sources.  Assum- 
ing that  they  spring  in  part,  at  least,  from  a  non- Aryan  source,  we  may 
suppose  some  such  linguistic  process  as  the  following  to  have  taken 
place.  After  the  northern  aborigines  had  been  reduced  to  dependence 
by  the  Aryas,  and  both  classes,  Aryan  and  non-Aryan,  had  coalesced  in 
one  community  (of  which  the  former  composed  the  upper,  and  the 
latter  the  lower  ranks),  the  languages  of  both  classes  (which  had 


THE  DRAMATIC  PRAKRITS.  33 

previously  been  different)  would  begin  to  become   assimilated  and 

amalgamated ;  the  Sanskrit-speaking  Aryas  ■would  soon  adopt  many 

words  belonging  to  the  speech  of  the  aborigines,  while  the  aboriginal 

race  would  begin  to   borrow   many  words  from  the   Sanskrit,  the 

language  of  their  masters.     This  process,  however,  would  naturally 

lead  to  a  great  corruption  and  alteration  of  the  Sanskrit.     Many  of 

the  compound  consonantal  sounds  in  Sanskrit  words,  such  as  those 

in  sti%  rakta,  kshatriya,  seem  to  have  been  found  such  as  the  lower 

orders  of  people  found  it  difficult  to  pronounce,  and  these  compound 

sounds  became  accordingly  broken  up  or  simplified,  or  in  some  way 

modified.     Thus  strl  became  istri,  rakta  became  ratta  or  rakat,  and 

kshatriya  became  khatriya,  khattia,  or  chhatriya.    In  this  manner  both 

languages  would  become  gradually  changed,  according  to  processes 

which  are  seen  in  operation  in  aU  countries.     Caprice,  alteration  of 

physical  circumstances,  differences  of  education,  and  those  varieties  in 

the  organs  of  speech  which  are  peculiar  to  different  races, — are  all  found 

to  produce  progressive  modifications  in  language.     Various  forms  of 

Prakrit  would  spring  up  by  degrees  in  different  provinces,  in  which 

Sanskrit  and  aboriginal  words  and  forms  would  be  combined,  though 

the  more  cultivated  element,  the  Sanskrit,  has,  in  either  a  pure  or 

a  modified  shape,  remained  predominant.      At  the   same  time  the 

Sanskrit  language  gradually  ceased  to  be  spoken  in  its  then  existing 

form,  and  becoming  the  language  of  books,  and  of  the  learned  class 

exclusively,  was  more  and  more  polished  and  settled  by  grammarians ; 

and  being  exempted  from  the  ordinary  causes  of  alteration,  continued 

thenceforward   unchanged :    just    as   was   the   case  with  the  Latin 

language.     It  seems,  at  the  same  time,  to  be  very  probable  that  many 

words  of  indigenous  origin,  as  well  as  words  which,  though  of  Sanskrit 

origin,  had  been  modified  in  the  Prakrits,  were  incorporated  in  the 

Sanskrit ;  and  that  in  this  way  the  modern  vocabulary  of  that  language 

includes  many  words  and  roots  which  were  unknown  to  it  at  an  earlier 

period.*' 

"  Dr.  Stevenson  says,  in  the  Journal  of  the  Bombay  Branch  Royal  As.  Society, 
for  January,  1869  :  "  The  Brahmans  scattered  through  all  the  different  provinces  of 
Hindusthan  no  douht  adopted  many  of  the  words  of  the  languages  of  the  tribes 
among  whom  they  resided,  and  introduced  them  into  the  sacred  tongue."  Professor 
Benfey  has  drawn  attention  to  the  introduction  into  Sanskrit  of  words  which  had 
become  modified  in  the  Prakrits.     See  Lassen,  Ind.  Alt.  ii.  1149,  note  2;  and 

3 


34  ON  THE  ORIGIN  AND  VERNACULAR  USE 

Sect.  III. — On  the  origin  and  vernacular  use  of  the  Scenic  Dialects. 

It  has  been  doubted,  however,  whether  the  dramatic  dialects  were 
ever  spoken  languages.  This  view  is  thrown  out  as  the  most  likely 
by  Prof.  H.  H.  Wilson  in  the  introduction  to  his  "  Select  Specimens 
of  the  Theatre  of  the  Hindus,"  pp.  Ixv,  Ixvi. 

"  There  is  one  question  of  some  interest  attaching  to  our  construc- 
tion of  the  Prakrit,  which  merits  a  fuller  inquiry  than  has  been  yet 
given  to  it,  and  on  which  this  is  not  the  place  to  dilate.  Does  it 
represent  a  dialect  that  was  ever  spoken,  or  is  it  an  artificial  modifica- 
tion of  the  Sanskrit  language,  devised  to  adapt  the  latter  to  peculiar 
branches  of  literature  ?  The  latter  seems  to  be  the  most  likely  ;  for 
there  would  be  no  difficulty  in  the  present  day  in  writing  it,  although 
it  is  no  longer  spoken,  and  highly  finished  specimens  are  to  be  found 
in  plays  which  are  modern  productions.  The  Vidagdha  Madhava,  for 
instance,  consists  more  than  half  of  high  Prakrit,  and  it  was  written 
less  than  three  centuries  ago.  On  the  other  hand,  many  of  the  modi- 
fications are  to  be  found  in  the  spoken  dialects  of  Hindusthan,  and 
the  rules  of  Prakrit  grammar  account  for  changes  which,  without  such 
aid,  it  is  difficult  to  comprehend.  The  simplification  of  the  gramma- 
tical construction  by  the  disuse  of  the  dual  number,  and  the  reduced 
number  of  verbal  conjugations,  looks  also  like  the  spontaneous  substi- 
tution of  practical  to  theoretic  perfection  in  actual  speech,  and  may 
tempt  us  to  think  the  Prakrit  was  once  a  spoken  tongue.     The  subject 

Benfey,  article  "Indien"  (in  Erscli  and  Gruber's  Encycl.),  p.  248.  A  paper  on 
"The  Dravidian  elements  in  Sanskrit,"  by  Dr.  H.  Gundert,  has  lately  appeared  in 
the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society  for  1869,  pp.  517  ff.  The  author 
remarks :  "  It  was  to  be  expected  d  priori  that  a  number  of  Dravidian  words  must 
have  found  their  way  into  Sanskrit.  How,  further,  could  the  Aryan  people  have 
spread  itself  over  the  whole  of  India,  without  adopting  very  much  from  the  aboriginal 
population  which  they  found  there,  and  which  has  submitted  to  them  partly  in  a  peace- 
able manner,  and  partly  under  compulsion,  and  yet  even  to  this  day  only  imperfectly  ? " 
And  in  opposition  to  the  Brahmanical  grammarians  who  would  derive  such  words 
from  Aryan  roots,  or  declare  Dravidian  roots  to  be  Sanskrit,  the  writer  appeals  to 
the  nature  of  the  case,  and  urges  that :  "  where  peoples  speaking  different  languages 
live  in  constant  mutual  intercourse,  traffic  or  fight  with  one  another,  suffer  and  enjoy 
together,  the^  take  over  much  from  each  other  without  examination  or  scrutiny ;  and 
this  process  must  have  gone  on  in  the  earliest  times,  when  their  mutual  relations 
were  still  of  a  naif  character.  We  thus  expect  d  priori  that  as  the  Aryans  penetrated 
southwards,  they  would  become  acquainted  with  new  objects  under  Dravidian  appel- 
lations, and  with  them  adopt  their  names." 


OF  THE  DEAMATIC  DIALECTS.  35 

is  interesting,  not  only  ia  a  philological,  but  in  a  historical  view ;  for 
the  sacred  dialects  of  the  Sauddhas  and  the  Jainas  are  nothing  else 
than  Prakrit,  and  the  period  and  circumstances  of  its  transfer  to  Ceylon 
and  to  Nepal  are  connected  with  the  rise  and  progress  of  that  religion 
which  is  professed  by  the  principal  nations  t&  the  north  and  east  of 
Hindusthan." 

Mr.  Beames  expresses  himself  still  more  strongly  in  the  same  sense : 
"  In  fact,  there  is  much  that  requires  clearing  up  in  the  relation  be- 
tween the  Saurasenl,  Braj,  and  the  Modern  Hindi  dialects,  and  until 
we  know  more  of  the  colloquial  forms  of  early  Prakrit,  the  mist  cannot 
be  dispelled.  The  Prakrit  of  the  poets  is  clearly  not  a  dialect  that 
ever  was  spoken.  How  far  it  represents  the  characteristics  of  any 
spoken  dialect  is  a  question." — (Journal  of  the  Eoyal  Asiatic  Society 
for  1868,  p.  498.) 

To  support  the  view  which  has  been  already  expressed  of  the  rela- 
tion of  the  modem  vernaculars  to  certain  pre-existing  Prakrit,  i.e.  ver- 
nacular dialects,  it  is  not  necessary  to  assume  that  the  dramatic  Pra- 
krits are  identical  with  the  spoken  Prakrits  ■which  existed  at  or 
anterior  to  the  periods  when  the  former  were  used  for  poetical  pur- 
poses. In  fact,  it  is  clear  from  what  Prof.  Wilson  says  of  the  com- 
position of  dramas  within  the  last  few  centuries,  when  the  older 
Prakrits  had  been  superseded  by  the  existing  vernaculars,  that  the 
Prakrits  of  the  dramas  have  continued  to  be  employed  as  the  tradi- 
tional dramatic  language  for  females  and  for  the  lower  classes  long  after 
these  Prakrits  have,  on  any  supposition,  become  obsolete.  But  it  is 
possible  that  when  they  were  originally  so  used  they  may  have  been 
identical  with  some  contemporaneous  vernaculars.  It  is,  however, 
sufficient  for  my  purpose  to  assume  that  the  dramatic  dialects  were  at 
one  period  closely  akin  to  some  contemporaneous  vernaculars.  This 
appears  to  be  sufficiently  established  by  the  lists  of  words  which  I  have 
given  above,  and  which  show  that  the  modern  vernaculars  have 
naturally  sprung  out  of  forms  of  speech  either  identical  with  or  akin 
to  the  dramatic  Prakrits.  The  same  point  is  also  proved  by  the 
relation  in  which,  as  we  shall  see,  the  latter  stand  to  the  Pali. 

I  shall  now  introduce  a  quotation  from  Professor  Lassen,  who,  in  his 
Institutiones  Linguse  Pracriticffi,  pp.  39,  ff.,  adopts  the  opposite  side 
of  the  question  from  Prof.  Wilson  and  Mr.  Beames.      His  remarks 


36  ON  THE  ORIGIN  AND  VEENACULAE  USE 

will  also  be  found  to  illustrate  the  process  by  which  the  Prakrits  arose 
out  of  Sanskrit. 

"  If  the  question  regarding  the  origin  of  these  dialects  merely  refer 
to  the  source  whence  they  are  derived,  it  admits  of  a  very  easy  answer : 
for,  as  has  been  already  stated,  all  the  scenic  dialects  are  drawn  en- 
tirely from  the  Sanskrit."'  If,  however,  the  question  means  by  what 
process  these  dialects  have  been  drawn  from  the  Sanskrit,  it  will  be 
more  difficult  to  answer.  The  difficulty  does  not  consist  in  these 
languages  containing  any  forms  or  words  of  which  the  Sanskrit  arche- 
types are  uadiscoverable  :  for,  on  the  contrary,  both  forms  and  words 
are  deduced  from  that  ancient  source  by  undergoing  certain  mutations 
which  all  languages  follow  as  they  become  altered  and  corrupted  in 
the  course  of  time ;  as,  for  example,  has  been  the  case  with  all  the 
Germanic  and  Romanic  dialects  which  have  sprung  from  the  Gothic 
and  the  Latin. 

"  The  difficulty,  however,  consists  in  this,  that  these  dramatic 
dialects,  sprung  from  the  Sanskrit,  and  bearing  the  names  of  different 
provinces,  are  different  from  the  provincial  languages  which  have  the 
same  name  and  origin;  e.g.  the  principal  Prakrit  (which  appears  to 
have  been  called  Maharashtrl)  differs  from  the  modern  MahrattT,  and 
the  S'aurasenI  from  the  Brajbhakha.  Hence  a  doubt  has  been  sug- 
gested whether  the  dramatic  dialects  were  formerly  the  spoken  tongues, 
of  the  people  of  the  several  provinces,  who  at  present  use  a  form  of 
speech  which,  though  cognate,  is  yet  different;  or  whether  these 
dramatic  dialects  are  anything  more  than  artificial  adaptations,  either 
of  Sanskrit,  or  of  the  provincial  tongues,  to  dramatic  purposes.  The 
latter  opinion  has  appeared  to  Wilson  the  most  probable,  for  this 
reason,  that  the  modern  dialects  of  the  Mahratta  country,  of  Mathura, 
and  Behar,  are  different  from  those  which  were  employed  on  the  stage 
under  the  same  names.  He  assigns  another  reason,  viz.,  that  these 
dramatic  dialects  can  be  composed  even  now.  But  is  not  the  case 
precisely  the  same  with  the  Sanskrit  or  the  Latin?  both  of  which 
can  in  our  day  be  written  by  men  who  are  skUled  in  them,  though 
they  have  long  ceased  to  be  used  in  daily  life,  or  to  be  spoken,  except 
by  a  few  scholars.  Wilson's  first  reason  is  equally  inconclusive :  for, 
to  use  what  I  may  call  an  argumentum  ad  hominem,  the  learned  Pro- 

68  See,  however,  what  has  been  said  on  this  subject  above,  in  pp.  26,  ff. 


OP  THE  DRAMATIC  DIALECTS.  37 

fessor  would  scarcely  succeed  in  making  himself  understood,  if  he 
■were  to  address  his  countrymen  in  the  Anglo-Saxon  tongue.  His 
argument  would,  indeed,  be  sound,  if  it  could  be  proved  that  in  the 
age  when  the  dramatic  dialects  were  first  brought  upon  the  stage,  the 
Maharashtri,  or  any  other  form  of  contemporaneous  speech,  was  dif- 
ferent from  the  dialect  introduced  into  the  dramas  under  the  same 
name.  For  it  must  be  recollected  that  succeeding  dramatic  poets, 
following  the  example  of  their  predecessors,  did  not  change  the 
dramatic  varieties  of  speech,  but  retained  them  in  their  original 
forms;  whilst,  on  the  other  hand,  the  popular  dialects  continued 
to  undergo  great  alterations,  as  is  the  fate  of  all  languages  which 
are  subjected  to  the  wear  and  tear  of  constant  use.  These  scenic 
dialects  can  be  taught  even  now  by  grammatical  tuition,  just  as  the 
Sanskrit  can,  though  neither  the  one  nor  the  other  can  be  learned  by 
the  Indians  from  a  nurse.  All  change  in  the  scenic  dialects  was 
guarded  against  (just  as  in  the  case  of  the  Sanskrit)  from  the  period 
when  their  forms  and  laws  had  been  fixed  by  grammarians,-  and, 
consequently,  the  argument  drawn  from  the  diversity  of  the  dramatic 
and  modern  provincial  dialects  is  of  no  force,  unless  it  can  be  shown 
that  the  provincial  dialects  also  have  remained  unchanged,  from  the 
commencement  to  the  present  day.  This,  however,  can  neither  be 
shown,  nor  was  it  possible.  On  the  other  hand,  the  existing  condition 
of  the  provincial  dialects  cannot  be  explained  unless  we  suppose  them 
to  have  had  another  form,  more  ancient  than  the  present,  and  more 
conformable  to  the  Sanskrit. 

"  Since,  then,  it  cannot  be  proved  that  the  provincial  dialects  were 
originally  different  from  the  scenic,  I  shall  add  some  arguments  by 
which  it  will  be  made  probable  that  the  latter  (the  scenic)  were 
actually  current  in  the  provinces  from  which  they  derived  their  names. 
And,  first,  I  shall  make  use  of  the  names  themselves  as  an  argument : 
for  the  names  Maharashtri,  S'auraseni,  would  be  absurd  if  they  were 
not  referred  to  provincial  dialects;  seeing  that  the  names  cannot  be 
deduced  from  any  orders  of  men  so  called,  nor  from  any  peculiarities 
in  those  dialects.  The  same  may  be  said  of  the  MagadhI,  for  though 
I  am  aware  that  the  word  Magadha  denotes  an  order  of  bards,  still 
the  Magadhi  dialect  is  employed  on  the  stage  by  other  classes  of  men, 
and  the  bards  themselves  derive  their  appellation  from  the  province 
which  gave  its  name  to  the  dialect. 


38  ON  THE  OEIGm  AND  VEENACtJIAB  USE 

"In  the  next  place,  I  argue  that  the  natoie  of  dramatio  poetry 
renders  it  scarcely  credible  that  dramas  composed  in  a  language  dif- 
ferent from  that  of  common  life  should  have  been  exhibited  on  the 
stage.  This,  however,  is  a  different  matter  from  the  supposition  that 
the  dramatic  dialects  have  subsequently  ceased  to  be  spoken,  and  have 
become  obsolete,  while  yet  they  maintained  their  place  on  the  stage. 
The  same  thing  holds  good  of  the  employment  of  Sanskrit  itself  in 
dramas  written  in  a  comparatively  modem  period. 

"If  these  conaderations  be  duly  weighed,  it  appears  to  follow  that 
the  use  of  different  dialects  on  the  stage  was  the  result  of  a  peculiar 
condition  of  Indian  life,  at  the  time  when  the  laws  of  dramatic  art 
were  first  fixed  by  the  Indian  poets. 

"To  these  arguments  it  must  be  added  that  there  is  so  close  an 
affinity  between  the  primary  dramatic  dialect  and  the  Pali,  as  to  leave 
scarcely  any  doubt  of  their  being  originally  identical.  So  much  is 
undoubted  that  the  sacred  language  of  the  Jains  is  not  different  from 
the  primary  Prakrit.  This  language  would  certainly  not  have  been 
adopted  by  the  adherents  of  a  sect  which  is  strongly  opposed  to  the 
Brahmans  and  their  opinions,  if  the  dramatic  dialect  had  had  no  other 
foundation  than  the  fertile  and  subtle  genius  of  the  Brahmans.  The 
Jains  could,  however,  have  no  difficulty  in  appropriating  it  to  their 
own  .uses,  if  it  was  the  language  of  daily  life.  How  it  happened 
that  the  Maharashtfi  dialect  in  particular  came  to  be  selected  both 
by  the  dramatic  poets  and  by  the  Jains,  is  a  point  to  be  explained 
from  the  history  of  the  Indian  stage,  and  of  the  Buddhist  religion, 
out  of  which  the  sect  of  the  Jains  sprang.  To  attempt  this  here 
would  be  out  of  place. 

"  The  primary  argument,  however,  is  to  be  drawn  from  the  structure 
of  the  languages  themselves.  This  structure  is  the  same,  as  regards 
principles  and  general  rules,  in  aU  the  provincial  languages  of  Sanskrit 
origin,  while  it  is  different  (though  very  similar),  if  the  individual 
forms  and  the  elements  of  these  be  regarded.  I  shall  therefore  do 
sufficient  justice  to  the  plan  I  have  in  view,  if  I  examine  more 
minutely  some  of  these  languages,  and  show  what  their  grammatical 
character  is.  In  doing  so,  however,  I  am  prevented  by  the  Umits  of 
my  book  from  exhibiting  their  entire  grammar,  nor  would  it  better 
serve  the  end  I  have  in  view  if  I  were  to  do  so.    I  propose,  there- 


OF  THE  DEAMATIC  DIALECTS.  39 

fore,  to  inquire  into  the  scheme  of  declensions  peculiar  to  these  lan- 
guages, which  follows  the  same  analogy  as  the  laws  of  conjugation. 
I  pass  over  the  permutations  of  sounds,  which  are  too  various  to  be 
treated  here ;  nor,  if  I  did  treat  them,  would  it  conduce  to  my  object, 
which  is  so  to  describe  the  structure  of  the  proyincial  dialects  as  to 
exhibit  the  diCFerences  between  them  and  the  dramatic  languages. 
For  the  changes  in  their  elements  undergone  by  the  Sanskrit  words 
which  hare  been  received  into  the  modem  dialects,  follow  two  very 
different  laws,  which,  if  not  carefaUy  distinguished,  might  be  used 
to  demonstrate  contraiy  conchisions.  One  sort  of  mutation  prevails 
in  those  words  which  had  been  received  into  the  provincial  dialects 
which  were  anciently  formed,  or  rather  cormpted,  from  the  Sanskrit ; 
such  as  the  Siajbhakha  'pothi,'  a  book,  which  in  Prakrit  is  'pothao,' 
and  in  Sanskrit  '  pustaka,'  and  numerous  others,  which  would  lead  us 
to  conclude  that  the  same  changes  in  the  elements 'of  words  have  taken 
place  in  the  modem  vernaculars  as  in  the  dramatic  dialects ;  and  that 
the  forms  of  words  in  the  former  are  derived  firom,  and  find  their 
explanation  in,  the  latter.  This  I  by  no  means  deny.  But  there  is 
another  kind  of  words  to  be  found  in  the  modem  dialects,  which 
come  nearer  to  the  original  Sanskrit  words  than  do  the  forms  used  in 
the  dramatic  Prakrits.  The  following  are  some  examples  from  the 
Srajbhakha,  Panjabi,  !M!ahratti,  and  Bengali : 

Brajbhakha.  Panjabi.  Mahratli.  Bengali. 

Putra,'^  Putn  Fraias  Karta,  Pruthutoi  Dip,  PritMvi. 

Prakrit     Putta,  Putd  PakSsa  Katta,  PuJiavi  Diba,  Puhavi. 

Sanskrit  Putra,  Putri  Praiasa  Karta,  Priihiti  IHpa,  Prithivt. 

"To  these  might  be  added  numerous  other  instances.  And  if  such 
words  alone  were  regarded,  it  would  not  be  absurd  to  conclude  that 
the  modem  dialects  retain  a  greater  number  of  Sanskrit  words  in 
their  genuine  form  than  the  Prakrits  do.  But  this  would  be  an  un- 
sound conclusion ;  for  the  modem  vernaculars,  especially  when  spoken 
by  men  who  are  learned  in  Sanskrit,  and  as  they  are  seen  in  books 
written  by  such  persons  (from  which  the  manuals,  grammars,  and 
lexicons  of  such  dialects  which  we  use,  have  been  derived),  are  coll- 
ie .Put,  son,  is,  howerer,  slso  used  in  this  dialect,  as  in  the  phrase,  iap  put,  father 
ati  son. — J.M.] 


40  ON  THE  OEIGIN  AND  VEENACTJLAE  TJSE 

tinually  recurring  to  tteir  sacred  and  ancient  source  (the  Sanskrit), 
not  only  when  they  want  words  expressive  of  recondite  ideas,  and 
required  'for  elegance  of  diction,  but  also  when  the  vernacular  form 
of  the  word  is  more  corrupt  than  learned  men  would  wish  to  introduce 
into  their  writings.  Hence  It  happens  that  twofold  forms  of  the  same 
Sanskrit  words  are  found  in  the  same  provincial  language,  one  more 
Sanskrit,  the  other  Prakrit ;  for  the  parent  Sanskrit  has  never  ceased 
to  exercise  an  influence  on  the  vernacular  dialects  of  India,  just  as 
the  Latin  does  on  the  Eomanic  tongues ;  while,  on  the  other  hand,  the 
Sanskrit  has  exercised  no  influence  on  the  forms  of  the  dramatic 
dialects  from  the  period  when  the  dramatic  poets,  and  the  gramma- 
rians following  their  guidance,  had  assigned  to  these  dialects  certain 
fixed  forms.  It  has  hence  resulted  that  these  dramatic  dialects  have 
undergone  no  change  whatever,  and  are  just  the  same  in  dramas 
composed  within  the  last  three  centuries  as  in  the  far  more  ancient 
Mrichhakatl.  For  the  language  of  the  stage  is  continually  borrow- 
ing Sanskrit  words,  but  alters  and  inflects  them  according  to  rules 
peculiar  to  itself;  the  vernacular  dialects,  on  the  other  hand,  con- 
tinue similarly  to  borrow  words  from  the  Sanskrit,  but  leave  them 
unaltered,™  whUe  those  words  which  they  had  long  ago  adopted  had 
been  altered  according  to  natural  laws  common  to  them  with  the 
Prakrits.  In  this  way  the  occurrence  of  pure  Sanskrit  words  in  the 
vernaculars,  such  as,  e.g.  tlhshm,  twashrita,  in  the  Bengali)  is  to  be 
explained." — Pp.  39-45. 

Professor  Lassen  then  proceeds  to  examine  the  forms  of  declension 
employed  in  some  of  the  modern  vernaculars.  He  then  goes  on  to 
remark  as  follows : — 

[In  the  modern  vernaculars]  "  we  find  the  structure  of  the 
Sanskrit  and  Prakit  declension  quite  destroyed,  the  same  inflexions 
applied  to  the  singular  and  the  plural,  and  a  new  diflference  introduced 
in  certain  declensions  between  the  direct  and  the  oblique  oases.  This 
proves  that  the  provincial  declensions  are  of  a  later  date  than  those  of 

['"  It  is  also  to  be  observed,  that  many  of  the  Sanskrit  words  which  have  been 
borrowed  and  modified  in  the  Pali  and  Prakrit  are,  in  the  modern  dialects,  re- 
placed, aa  far  as  the  common  people  are  concerned,  by  words  of  aboriginal,  or,  at  least, 
colloquial,  origin;  such  as  be^a,  instead  oiputra,  for  son;  while  words  like  the  latter 
are  used  chiefly  by  Brahmans,  and  other  high-caste  persons. — J.M.] 


OF  THE  DRAMATIC  DIALECTS.  41 

the  dialects  used  in  the  dramas,  which  are  derived  from  the  Sanskrit 
by  certain  fixed  rules,  and  involve  only  a  few  innovations.  In  the 
provincial  inflections  there  remain,  indeed,  some  traces,  partly  distinct, 
partly  somewhat  obscured,  of  Sanskrit  and  Prakrit  declension ;  but  in 
other  points  there  are  great  innovations  which  reveal  to  us  a  total 
dissolution  of  the  old  grammatical  structure,  and  its  reconstruction  by 
means  of  new  instruments. 

"  As  this  state  of  things  is  perceptible  in  the  whole  grammar  of  the 
provincial  dialects  which  owe  their  origin  to  the  Sanskrit,  I  conclude 
that  they  are  of  later  origin  than  the  scenic  dialects.  Between  the 
Sanskrit  language  and  its  existing  daughters  [the  modern  vernacu- 
lars], there  is  so  great  a  diversity  of  grammatical  structure  as  to  make 
it  certain  that  the  pristine  language  cannot  have  sunk  by  one  fall,  so 
to  speak,  into  that  condition  in  which  we  find  the  provincial  dialects. 
It  follows  of  necessity  that  there  must  have  been  an  intermediate  con- 
dition between  the  pristine  and  the  modem  speech.  This  intermediate 
condition  was  no  doubt  very  various,  and  approached  at  first  more 
nearly  to  the  Sanskrit,  and  subsequently  to  the  provincial  tongues. 

"  If  we  except  the  Pali  [and,  I  would  add,  the  Gatha  dialect  in 
the  Buddhist  books,  J.M.],  the  earliest  form  of  the  Sanskrit  after  it 
began  to  degenerate  and  to  alter  its  character  is  that  which  we  find 
in  the  dramas ;  from  which  dramatic  dialect,  therefore,  we  are  to 
suppose  that  the  first  mutation  of  the  Sanskrit,  which  eventually  gave 
rise  to  the  modem  vernaculars,  was  not  very  different.  I  contend 
that,  though  not  identical,  this  earliest  corruption  of  Sanskrit  was 
very  similar  to  that  which  we  find  in  the  dramas.  If  this  opinion 
be  correct,  there  is  nothing  to  prevent  our  believing  that  the  scenic 
dialects  were  formerly  the  current  speech  of  the  different  provinces. 
The  names  which  these  scenic  dialects  have  received  from  the  gram- 
marians, and  the  conditions  of  dramatic  poetry,  lead  us  to  the  same 
conclusion. 

"Here,  however,  I  conceive  I  must  stop,  for  I  could  not  adduce  de- 
tailed arguments  to  prove  this  opinion  without  examining  the  whole 
field,  both  of  the  scenic  and  the  provincial  dialects.  I  think,  however, 
that  I  ought  distinctly  to  add  that  I  should  not  be  disposed  to  dissent 
from  any  one  who  should  assert  that  the  scenic  dialects  were  not 
exactly  the  pure   forms   of  speech   which   were   contemporaneously 


42     ON  THE  VERNACULAE  USE  OP  THE  DRAMATIC  DIALECTS. 

ourreprt  in  the  different  provinces,  but  were  a  little  modified,  so  as 
better  to  harmonise  with  the  character  of  the  persons  who  were  to 
employ  them.  The  principal  argument  for  this  conclusion  is  that 
two  forms  are  sometimes  found  to  occur  in  the  dramatic  dialects,  one 
having  a  closer  resemblance  to  the  provincial  language,  and  another 
which  is  softer  and,  so  to  speak,  more  feminine. 

"To  bring  this  disquisition  to  a  close:  there  are  two  families  of 
degenerate  Sanskrit  extant;  the  first  more  ancient,  and  not  much 
corrupted,  to  which  class  the  Pali  and  the  scenic  dialects  belong ;  the 
second  of  more  recent  origin,  and  dispersed  at  the  present  day  over 
the  [northern]  provinces  of  India,  which  is  more  diverse  from  the 
parent  language.  The  members  of  the  former  family  are  daughters 
of  the  Sanskrit;  those  of  the  latter  are  its  granddaughters,  though 
it  is  ia  some  degree  doubtful  whether  they  are  daughters  of  the  first 
family  or  granddaughters  descended  from  sisters.  As  regards  the  age 
of  these  two  classes,  it  is  proved  by  the  history  of  the  Buddhist 
religion,  and  of  the  Indian  stage,  that  the  former  arose  prior  to  the 
commencement  of  the  Christian  era;  while  it  can  be  made  out  with 
considerable  probability  that  the  latter  [i.e.  the  modern  provincial 
vernaculars)  were  formed  before  the  year  1000  of  the  Christian  era." 
—Pp.  67-60. 

I  subjoin  some  further  remarks  on  the  distinction  between  the  older 
Prakrits  and  the  modem  vernaculars,  from  the  Indische  Alterthum- 
skunde  of  the  same  author.  Vol.  ii.  pp.  1149,  1150. 

"  We  must  draw  a  distinct  line  of  demarcation  between  the  Indian 
languages  of  the  middle  age  (under  which  denomination  we  may 
fittingly  class  the  Pali,  the  languages  of  the  dramas,  and  those  em- 
ployed in  the  oldest  inscriptions)  and  the  new  Indian,  or  existing 
vernacular  dialects.  The  former  had  not,  so  to  speak,  crossed  the 
Eubicon,  nor  entirely  renounced  obedience  to  the  laws  of  their  mother- 
language.  They  conform,  it  is  true,  but  little  to  the  ancient  phonetic 
laws,  and  are  regulated  for  the  most  part  by  such  as  are  of  a  later 
date ;  but  their  grammatical  forms,  though  corrupted  and  stunted,  are 
inherited  immediately  from  their  parent.  The  modem  dialects  of 
India,  on  the  other  hand,  have  almost  entirely  ceased  to  obey  the 
phonetic  rules  of  the  Sanskrit.  They  conform  in  part  to  the  phonetic 
laws  of  the  Prakrit  dialects,  but  in  addition  to  these  the  modern 


INDIAN  GEAMMAEIANS  ON  THE  PEAKRITS.  43 

dialects  have  peculiar  phonetic  laws  of  their  own,  and  their  words, 
when  not  borrowed  immediately  from  the  Sanskrit  to  enlarge  their 
vocabidary,  often  manifest  more  extreme  contractions,  and  greater 
deviations  from  the  original  words,  than  do  the  corresponding  words 
in  the  Prakrit.  The  grammatical  forms  of  the  modern  dialects  are,  with 
rare  exceptions,  newly  constructed;  for  the  case- terminations  are 
chiefly  indicated  by  post-positions,  the  old  personal  terminations  have, 
for  the  most  part,  entirely  disappeared,  and  the  tenses  are  marked  in 
quite  a  different  manner  than  in  the  Prakrit  dialects,  the  past  tenses 
being  commonly  shown  by  participles,  with  the  three  personal  pro- 
nouns in  the  instrumental  case.  Even  the  lowest  of  the  dramatic 
Prakrits,  the  Apabhran^a,  has  not  transgressed  this  line  of  demarca- 
tion, and  stands  much  nearer  to  the  Sanskrit  than  the  modern  ver- 
naculars do." 

Sect.  IV. —  Views  of  the  Indmn  Grammarians  on  the  relation  of  the 
Prakrits  to  Sanskrit,  and  on  the  other  elements  in  their  composition. 

Vararuchi,"  the  oldest  extant  grammarian  who  treats  of  the  Prakrit 
forms  of  speech,  and  his  commentator  fihamaha  (in  his  Manorama), 
distinctly  assert  their  derivation,  mediate  or  immediate,  from  Sanskrit. 
The  former  describes  in  his  "  Prakrita-praka^a "  four  dialects  of  this 
description,  viz. :  1st,  Maharashtri,  or  Prakrit  generally  so  called  ; 
2nd,  PaisachI ;  3rdly,  Magadhi ;  and  4thly,  S'aurasenl."  After  having 
in  the  first  nine  chapters  laid  down  the  rules  for  the  formation  of  the 
Prakrit,  properly  so  called,  from  Sanskrit,  he  proceeds  to  the  others ; 
and  at  the  commencement  of  Chapter  X.  he  lays  it  down  that  "the 
root  of  the  PaisachI  is  the  S'auraseni."  Paikachl  \  praTcritih  S'aurasenl] 
On  which  the  commentator  Bhamaha  remarks  that  Pai^acht  is  the 
language  of  the  Pisachas."  The  Magadhi  also  is  delared  by  Vararuchi 
in  Chapter  XL  "  to  be  derived  from  the  same  S'auraseni."  Magadhi  | 
prakritih  S'auraseni  \  '*    The  S'auraseni  dialect  itself  is  spoken  of  at  the 

'1  See  on  hia  age,  Lassen,  Instit.  Pracr.  i.  5;  Addenda,  p.  65;  and  Indisohe 
Alterthumskimde,  ii.  p.  H60,  where  he  is  declared  to  have  flourished  ahout  the 
middle  of  the  first  century  a.d. 

'*  See  Lassen,  Instit.  Pracr.  7  f. ;  and  Cowell,  Prakrita-prakarfa,  p.  xvii. 

"  FisSehanam  hhasha  PaUaeht  \  asyalf  Paisachyah  pralcritili  S'aurasem  |  Cowell> 
p.  86,  and  Lassen,  Instit.  Pracr.  7.  439. 

'*  Cowell,  p.  89,  and  Lassen,  pp.  8.  391. 


44  VIKWS  OF  THE  INDIAN  GRAMMARIANS 

commeneement  of  Chapter  XII.  as  derived  immediately  from  the 
Sanskrit.  S'aiirasenil  pahritih  SmsJcritam\  '*  At  the  end  of  the 
Chapter  on  the  S'aurasenI,  it  is  stated  that  "in  other  points"  (which  have 
not  been  specifically  touched  upon)  "  it  is  like  the  Maharashtrl  dialect." 
S'esham,  mahdrdshtrwat  |™  From  this  and  from  some  other  quota- 
tions which  will  be  found  below,  it  appears  that  the  ancient  Maha- 
rashtrl, and  the  dialect  called  by  way  of  eminence  "  the  Prakrit,"  are 
the  same."  In  another  work  called  the  "  Shadbhasha  Chandrika," 
by  Lakshmidhara,  it  is  stated  that  the  "  Prakrita  dialect  had  its  origin 
in  Maharashtra."  Prakritam  Mahdrashtrodhhavam  \ "  As  the  S'aura- 
senI is  said  to  be  derived  from  the  Sanskrit,  the  same  must  a  fortiori 
be  true  of  the  Maharashtrl,  or  principal  Prakrit,  as  the  greater  part  of 
Vararuchi's  work  is  devoted  to  showing  how  it  is  formed  by  modifi- 
cations of  the  Sanskrit.  And,  in  fact,  at  the  close  of  Yararuchi's 
ninth  section  on  this  dialect  we  have  it  thus  stated  in  the  following 
Sutra,  the  18th:  "Tie  rest  is  [to  be  learned]  from  the  Sanskrit :  " 
seshah  Swfhshritdt  1 1  "  On  which  the  commentator  remarks,  "The  rest 
means  aU.  that  has  not  been  already  referred  to.  The  remaining  rules 
for  afSxes,  compounds,  taddhitas,  genders,  etc.,  must  be  learned  from 
the  Sanskrit."  uMdd  any  ah  ieshah  \  pratyaya-samdsa-taddhita-linga- 
va/rnaJcddi-vidhih  ieshah  samshritdd  a/vagantavgah  \  The  derivation  of 
Prakrit  from  Sanskrit  is  here  implied,  and,  in  fact,  as  has  already 
been  intimated,  the  same  thing  results  from  the  whole  series  of  rules 
for  forming  Prakrit  words,  which  are  nothing  but  explanations  of  the 
manner  in  which  the  Sanskrit  forms  are  modified  in  Prakrit.  The 
same  origin  is  ascribed  to  Prakrit  by  Hemachandra,  who  says,  Frakritih 
samskritam  \  iatra-hhavam  tatah  dgatam  vd  Prdkritam  \^  "It  has  its 
origin  in  Sanskrit.  Prakrit  is  that  which  springs,  or  comes,  from 
Sanskrit."  Of  the  Prakrits  handled  by  Vararuchi  we  thus  see  that 
three  derive  their  names  from  three  provinces  of  India,  viz.,  Maha- 
rashtra, Magadha,  and  the  country  of  the  S'urasenas,  the  region  round 

"  Cowell,  p.  93,  and  Lassen,  pp.  8  and  49  of  Appendix, 

'8  Cowell,  p.  96,  and  Lassen,  pp.  8  and  50  of  Appendix. 

"  That  the  Maharashtrl  of  that  period  was  not  the  same  as  the  modem  Mahratti 
appears  (I  need  scarcely  say)  from  the  character  of  the  former,  as  shown  in  the 
dramatic  works  in  which  the  Prakrits  are  employed. 

,'»  Lassen,  p.  12.  "  Cowell,  pp.  85  and  176. 

8"  Cowell,  p.  xvii. ;  Lassen,  p.  26. 


ON  THE  RELATIONS  OF  THE  PRAKRITS  TO  SANSKRIT.        45 

ilathura.    This,  as  we  have  already  seen  above,  p.  37,  is  considered  by 
Lassen  as  a  strong  proof  that  they  were  spoken  dialects. 

Pour  kinds  of  Prakrit  only,  as  we  have  thus  seen,  are  mentioned 
by  Vararuchi,  the  oldest  authority  on  Prakrit  Grrammar,  viz.,  Maha- 
rashtrl  (or  the  principal  Prakrit),  S'auraseni,  Magadhi,  and  Paisacht. 
Though  many  other  dialectic  varieties  are  referred  to  by  later  gram- 
marians, it  is  not  necessary  for  my  purpose  to  give  a  detailed  account 
of  any  of  these. 

Vararuchi  devotes  nine  chapters,  containing  in  all  424  aphorisms,  to 
the  Maharashtrl ;  one  chapter  containing  32  aphorisms  to  the  pecu- 
liarities of  the  S'auraseni;  another  chapter  containing  17  aphorisms  to 
the  Magadhi;  and  a  third  chapter  containing  14  aphorisms  to  the 
Paisachl. 

It  is  clear  from  this  mode  of  treatment  alone,  that  the  points  in 
which  these  four  dialects,  and  especially  the  Maharashtrl  and  the 
S'auraseni,  agree  with  each  other,  must  be  much  more  numerous  than 
those  in  which  they  differ ;  and  this  conclusion  is  confirmed  by  a  com- 
parison of  the  specimens  of  the  several  dialects  which  are  extant  in  the 
dramas.  Accordingly,  Professor  Lassen  remarks  (Instit.  Prac.  p.  377), 
that  "the  principal  dialect,  and  the  S'auraseni,  coincide  in  most  re- 
spects." The  technical  distinction  made  between  these  two  dialects 
by  the  grammarians  is,  that  the  one  (the  S'auraseni)  is  the  language  •. 
used  in  prose,  while  the  Maharashtrl  is  appropriated  to  verse  (Lassen, 
p.  384).  The  same  author  remarks  of  the  Magadhi,  that  it  does  not 
depart  much  further  from  the  Sanskrit  than  the  principal  Prakrit  does 
(p.  387) ;  and  that  the  Indian  grammarians  are  wrong  in  deriving  the 
Magadhi  from  the  S'auraseni,  as  the  former  is  as  directly  descended 
from  the  Sanskrit  as  the  latter ;  and  that  the  two  derivatives  coincide 
with  each  other  in  most  respects  (p.  437).  The  Paisachl  (a  dialect 
employed  by  barbarous  hill  tribes)  Lassen  supposes,  in  like  manner,  to 
have  been  derived  directly  from  the  Sanskrit,  but  by  a  process  peculiar 
to  itself  (p.  447). 

In  regard  to  these  Prakrit  dialects  generally,  Lassen  remarks  (p.  386) 
as  follows :  "  that  the  Sanskritic  languages  of  Hindusthan  proper  were 
formerly  less  different  from  each  other  than  they  now  are,  is  to  be 
inferred  from  the  fact,  that  at  that  earlier  period  they  had  not  departed 
so  far  from  their  common  fountain." 


46  VIEWS  OF  THE  INDIAN  GRAMMARIANS 

The  following  passage,  quoted  by  Lassen,  Instit.  Linguae  Pracrit., 
p.  17,  from  a  work  called  Prakritadlpika,  by  Chandideva,  seems  also 
to  show  that  Prakrit  was  a  language  in  current  use,  as  well  as  em- 
ployed in  the  dramas :  etad  api  hhanmarad  natahadam  mahahavi- 
prayoga-da/r&anat  Prakntam  mahdrashtradeiiyam  prahrishta-lhasha- 
nam  \  tathd  cha  Dandl  '^  mahardshtrairayam  Ihasham  prahrishtam 
Prakntam  vidur "  iti  \  "  This  Prakrit  of  the  Maharashtra  country 
[so  called},  from  its  conformity  to  popular  usage,  and  from  its  being 
employed  by  great  poets  in  dramas  and  other  poems,  is  the  most 
excellent  form  of  speech.  Thus  Dandl  says,  '  The  Prakrit  which 
prevails  in  Maharashtra  is  considered  the  best.'  "  Rama  Tarkavagi^a, 
in  his  Prakritakalpataru,  declares  "the  Maharashtri  dialect  to  be  the 
root  of  the  others;"  sarvdsu  bhdshdsv  iha  hetubhutdm  bhdshdm  mahd- 
rdshtra-hhavdm  purastdt  \  nirudayishyami  (sic)  yafhopadeiam  sri-Rama- 
iarma  ^ham  imam  prayatndt  |"  and  affirms  that  "the  S'auraseni  is 
derived  from  it."  Virachyate  samprati  S'auraseni  pwrvaiva  hhdshd 
prahritih  Mlasydh  |  "'  The  Magadhi  is  said  to  be  derived  from 
these  two :  Atha  iha  Mdgadhy  anusishyate  .  .  .  asydh  mahdrd- 
sktraia-S'aurasena-bhdshe  pravinaih  prakritl  niruMe  \  ^  These  lan- 
guages, together  with  the  Ardhamagadhi  and  the  Dakshinatya,  are 
called  bhashds.  The  author  then  refers  to  the  second  class,  called 
vibfiSshas,  the  dialects  called  S^kari  or  Chandalika,  &'abari,  Abhirika, 
Draviija,  and  TJtkall,  which,  he  says,  "though  characterized  by 
rusticity  (apabhran^ata),  are  yet  not  to  be  ranked  in  the  class  of 
apabhransas  if  they  are  employed  in  dramas."  S'akkdrakodra-dravi- 
dddi-vdeho  'pdbhraSdatdm  yadyapi  samsrayanti  I  sydd  ndtakddau  yadi 
samprayogo  naitasv  apabhramiatayd  tathaishah  \  ^  On  the  other 
hand,  the  forms  of  those  vibhdshas  which  are  not  used  in  the  dramas 
are  reckoned  by  the  author  among  the  apabhranSa  dialects,  under 
which  name  he  understands  the  provincial  languages,  such  as  the 
Bengali,  GruzaratT,  etc.'^  A  third  class  of  languages  is  called  by  this 
author  the  Pai^achi. 

81  Prakritakalpataru,  quoted  ty  Lassen,  p.  20. 

8»  Ibid.,  2nd  S'akha,  1st  Stavaka. 

6'  Ibid.,  2nd  Stavaka. 

8*  Ibid.,  3rd  Stavaka  (Lassen,  p.  21). 

85  Lassen,  p.  22. 


ON  THE  EELATIONS  OF  THE  PEAXRITS  TO  SANSKRIT.        47 

The  Kavyaehandrika,  a  work  on  poetry,  has  the  following  remarks 
on  language : 

Tad  eva  vanmayam  vichfat  samshritam  prdTcritam  tatha  \  apahhramsaS 
eha  mUrai  cha  tasya  hhedsi  chatwvidhah  \  samskrifaih  devatd-vani  ka- 
thita  muni-punga/oaik  \  tadlhamam  tatsamam  deslty  aneham  prakritaih 
viduh  I 

"In  regard  to  language,  let  it  be  understood  that  there  are  four 
kinds,  viz.,  Sanskrit,  Prakrit,  Apabhransa,  and  mixed.  The  Munis 
call  Sanskrit  the  language  of  the  gods;  and  consider  that  there  are 
several  kinds  of  Prakrit,  viz.  {Tadlhava),  that  which  is  derived  from, 
and  {Tatsama)  that  which  corresponds  with,  Sanskrit,  and  (^Beii)  the 
provincial." '°     On  this  passage  the  scholiast  remarks : 

"  Tadhha/vah"  samshrita-lhmiah  khaggadi-iabdah  \  "  tatsormah"  sa'fhs- 
Tcrita-prdhritayoh  samah  hindira-hande  ityddi-sabdah  \  "  ddi"  iti  maha- 
rashtnyddi  \  " apabhramsas"  tv  Ahhlrddi-vakyam  \  " mUrakam"  ndta- 


"The  word  tadhhava  means  'derived  from  Sanskrit,'  like  the  word 
khagga,  etc.,  for  khadgd.  Tatsama  means  the  words  which  are  'alike 
in  Sanskrit  and  Prakrit,'  like  hindira,  Jiande,  etc.^'  DeH  means  the 
Maharashtri,  etc.  Apabkrania  is  the  speech  of  the  Abhiras,  etc. 
The  mixed  dialect  is  that  of  the  dramas,  etc."  '*  Here  it  is  to  be 
remarked  that  though  the  Maharashtri  is  generally  recognized  as  the 
principal  Prakrit,  it  is  in  this  passage  called  Beii,  or  provincial,  by 
the  scholiast.  To  the  same  eifect  is  the  following  passage  from  the 
Eavyadarsa  of  Dandi  : 

Tad  eva  vdnmayam  bhvtyah,  samskritam  prakritam  tathd  \  apabhramiam 

eha  mUrarh  chety  dhw  dptds  chaturvidham  \  samskritam  ndma  dam  vdg 

anvdkhydta  maharshibhih  \  tatsamah  tadbhwoo  de^Uy  anehah  prdkritah 

kramah  \  mahdrdshtrd&rayam  bhashdm  prakrishtam  prdkritam  viduh  \ 

sdgarah  iukti-ratndndm    Setubandhadi-yanmfiya/m   (?)  I  S'aurasenl  cha 

nati  cha  6 audi  chdnyd  cha  tddriil  \  ydti.f prdkritam  ity  eshu  vyana- 

hdreshu^^   samvidhim  \  Abhirddi-girah   kdvyeshv    ^^  apabhramsah"    iti 

sthitih  I  Sdstreshu  samskritdd  any  ad  apabhramsatayoditam  | 

86  Kavyaehandrika,  quoted  by  Lassen,  p.  32. 

"  See  Prof.  Benfey's  review  of  the  1st  edit,  of  this  volume  in  the  Gott.  Gel. 
Anzeigen  for  23rd  January,  1861,  p.  132. 
'8  Scholiast  on  the  same  passage,  ibid. 
8'  Tattaddes'iya-vyavahareshu  natakadishn,  marginal  gloss,  quoted  by  Lassen. 


48  VIEWS  OF  THE  INDIAN  GRAMMARIANS 

"  Writers  of  authority  say  that  there  are  four  kinds  of  language : 
Sanskrit,  Prakrit,  Apabhransa,  and  mixed.  Great  Rishis  denominate 
Sanskrit  the  language  of  the  gods.  There  are  several  orders  of  Prakrit, 
viz.,  {tadhhma)  that  which  is  derived  from,  and  ifatsama)  that  which 
corresponds  with,  Sanskrit,  and  the  provincial  {ds&i).  The  language 
of  Maharashtra  is  called  the  principal  Prakrit,  and  it  is  an  ocean  of 
pearls  and  gems,  such  as  the  Setubandha;  etc.  [This  line  is  corrupt ; 
and  the  above  sense  is  assigned  as  a  conjecture.  The  allusion  appears 
to  be  to  the  ancient  Prakrit  poem  called  '  Setubandha,' '"  though  there 
may  also  be  a  reference  to  the  reef  of  Setubandha,  a  line  of  rocks 
between  India  and  Ceylon,  in  the  vicinity  of  the  Ceylonese  pearl 
fisheries.]  The  S'aurasenl,  the  Nati  (dramatic  ?),  the  Gaudi,  and 
such  like  dialects,  follow  the  law  of  the  Prakrit  according  to  their 
several  provincial  usages.  The  speech  of  the  Abhiras,  and  other  such 
tribes,  when  occurring  in  poems,  is  called  Apabhransa.  In  books  on 
grammar,  whatever  differs  from  Sanskrit  is  caUed  Apabhransa."'^ 

In  his  note  to  the  introduction  to  Campbell's  Telugu  Grammar,  p.  15, 
Mr.  P.  "W.  Ellis  remarks  as  follows  on  the  Sha^bhasha  Chandrika  of 
Lakshmidhara,  above  referred  to  (p.  54) :  "  The  work  here  noticed  is 
confined  to  these  dialects  [the  Maharashtri,  S'aurasenl,  Magadhi, 
Paisaohi,  Chulika-pai^achi,  and  Apabhransa],  as  they  now  exist  in  the 
Natakas  [dramas],  and  treats  therefore  only  of  Tatsamam  and  Tad- 
bhavam  terms  of  Sanskrit  origin ;  it  is  expressly  stated,  however,  that 
each  possessed  its  proper  De^yam,  or  native,  terms  ;  and  it  is  probable, 
as  many  of  these  dialects  prevailed  in  countries  far  distant  from  each 
other,  that  each  was  connected  with  Desyam  words  of  various  deriva- 
tions, in  conjunction  with  which  they  produced  spoken  languages, 
differing  considerably  from  each  other.  This  in  fact  is  declared  to  be 
the  case  with  respect  to  Pai^achi  in  the  following  passage  :"  Piiacha- 
desa-niyOftam  PiidcM-d/vitayam  viduh  \  Pisdoha-desas  tu  vriddhavr  uktdh\ 
Pdndya- Kekaya-VdhMha-Sahya-Nepala-Kuntaldh  \  Sudhesha- Bhota- 
GdndhdraSaiva-Kanojands  tathd  \  ete  PaUdcha-deiah  syus  taddekyas 
tad-guno  Ihmet  \  [i.  e.  Two  kinds  of  Pai^achl  are  recognized,  which 
depend  on  the  different  Pisacha  countries.  These  are  declared  by 
the  ancients  to  be  the  following,  Pandya,  Kekaya,  Vahllka,  Sahya, 

so  See  note,  p.  x.  and  note  2,  p.  26,  in  Cowell's  Prakrita-praka^a. 
"  From  the  Kavyadars'a  of  Dandi,  as  quoted  by  Lassen,  pp.  32,  33. 


ON  THE  RELATIONS  OF  THE  PEAKRITS  TO  SANSKRIT.       49 

N"epala,  Kuntala,  Sudhesha,  Bhota,  Gandhara,  Haiva,  and  Kanojana. 
These  are  the  Paisaeha  countries ;  and  the  native  of  each  country  has 
his  own  particular  qualities.]  "  The  two  PaisachI  dialects  are  said  to 
prevail  in  all  the  countries  here  mentioned,  commencing  with  Pand- 
yam  at  the  southern  extremity  of  India,  and  extending  to  Canoj 
(Canojana)  in  the  north,  .  .  ,  and  it  is  added,  These  are  the 
PaisachI  countries,  and  the'  Desyam  terms  of  each  have  their  own 
particular  quality."  The  concluding  phrase  is  more  vague  in  the 
original  than  Mr.  EUis  has  rendered  it ;  hut  as  language  is  the  subject 
which  the  author  is  treating,  it  is  to  be  presumed  that  he  here  alludes 
to  the  peculiar  character  of  the  different  provinces  in  respect  of  their 
varieties  of  speech. 

It  is  irrelevant  to  my  present  purpose  to  inquire  particularly 
whether  the  various  distinctions  adopted  by  Vararuchi  and  his  suc- 
cessors, of  the  mediate  or  immediate  derivation  of  the  Prakrits  from 
Sanskrit,  and  their  classifications  of  Prakrit,  into  that  which  is  pro- 
perly so  called,  and  Apabhran^a,  and  PaisachI,  are  merely  arbitrary 
and  factitious,  or  are  founded  on  any  rational  principles.  It  is  enough 
that  I  iind  the  following  facts,  which  are  important  to  the  conclusions 
I  am  seeking  to  establish,  admitted  by  the  native  authorities  I  have 
just  cited ;  viz.,  first,  that  the  Prakrits  are  derived  from  Sanskrit  as 
their  source ;  secondly,  that  they  are  composed  of  a  threefold  element : 
Tatsamam,  pure  Sanskrit;  Tadbhavam,  derived  from  Sanskrit;  and 
I>esi,  local.  As  this  third  element,  Deh,  is  distinguished  both  from 
pure  Sanskrit  and  from  words  derived  from  Sanskrit  but  modified,  it 
would  appear,  thirdly,  that  it  denotes  words  which  were  regarded  as 
having  an  origin  different  from  Sanskrit.  Such,  at  least,  is  indubitably 
the  sense  in  which  the  word  Deii  is  used  by  Telugu  writers.'^ 

^  See  Campbell's  Telugu .  Grammar  (3rd  edit,  Madras,  1849),  p.  37,  where  it  is 
said : — "  The  words  of  the  Teloogoo  language  ....  are  classed  by  Sanskrit  gram- 
marians under  four  distinct  heads.  1st  Bishyumoo,  or,  as  it  is  more  emphaticaEy 
termed,  TJtsu  Dishyumoo,  the  pure  language  of  the  land ;  2nd  Tutsumumoo,  Sanskrit 
words  assuming  Teloogoo  terminations;  3rd  Tudbhavumoo,  Teloogoo  corruptions  of 
Sanskrit  words,  formed  by  the  substitution,  the  elision,  or  addition  of  letters ;  4th 
Gramyumoo,  provincial  terms,  or  words  peculiar  to  the  vulgar.  To  these  we  may 
also  add  Unyu  Bisttyumoo,  or  words  from  other  countries,  sometimes  given  as  a  sub- 
division of  the  first  class,  and  comprising,  according  to  the  definition  of  ancient 
writers,  words  adopted  from  the  dialects  current  in  the  Canarese,  Mahratta,  Guzerat, 
and  Dravida  provinces  only,  but  now  also  including  several  of  Persian,  Hindoostanee, 
and  English  origin," 


50  VIEWS  OF  THE  INDIAN  GKAMMARIANS 

To  give  an  idea  of  the  artificial  manner  in  which  the  Indian  critics 
classify  the  different  Prakrit  dialects,  and  of  the  different  classes  of 
people  to  whom  they  conceive  the  dramatic  writers  ought  to  assign 
them,  I  quote  a  passage  from  the  Sahitya  Darpana  : — 

PuriisMnam  amohanam  samslcritam  samslcritatmanam  \  S'aurasem 
prayoktamya  tadriiinam  cha  yosMtdm  \  dsam  eva  tu  gathasu  Mahdrd- 
shtrlm  prayoj'ayet  \  atroMd  mdgadhl  bhashd  rajantahpura-ehdrindm  \ 
chetdndm  rdjaputrdnam  ireshthindih  chdrdhamdgadM  \  prdokya  vidusJta- 
Jcddlndm  dhurtdndm  sydd  AvantiM  \  yodha-ndgarikddlndm  ddkshinatyd 
hi  diyatdm  \  S'akardndm  StiMdindm  idhdrim  samprayojayet  j  Vdhllka- 
hhashd  divydndm  dravidl  Dravidddishu  |  Ahhireshu  tathd  "Ihlrl 
chdnddh  Puklcdsadishu  \  Abhirl  S'dvarl  chdpi  Icdshtha-patropcytvishu  \ 
tathawdngdrakdrddoM  PaUdchi  sydt  Piidoha-vdh  \  chetmdm  apy  ani- 
ehdndm  api  sydt  S'aurasemhd  \  hdldndm  shandakdndm  cha  nicha- 
grahaviehdrindm  \  unmattdndm  diurdndm  saiva  sydt  samskritam  kvacMt  | 
aiivaryena  pramattasya  ddridryopaskritasya.  cha  |  hhikshu-lcmdhadhard- 
dlndm  prdkritam  samprayojayet  |  samskritani  samprayoktavyam  lingi- 
nishuttamdsu  cha  |  devimantrisutd-veSydsv  api  kaikhit  tathoddtam  \  yad- 
dekam  nicha-patram  tu  tad-desam  tesya  hhdshitam  \  kdryataS  ehottamd- 
dindm  kdryo  hhdshd-viparyayah  \  YosMt-sakM-hdla-veiyd-kitavdpsarasdm 
tathd  I  vaidagdhydrtham  praddta/oyam  samskritani  chdntardntard  \ 

"  Let  men  of  respectable  rank  and  cultivated  minds  speak  Sanskrit; 
and  let  women  of  the  same  description  use  S'aurasenI,  except  in  the 
metrical  parts,  where  they  should  talk  Maharashtri.  Persons  living 
in  kings'  palaces  should  employ  MagadhI,  and  servants,  kings'  sons, 
and  magistrates  Ardhamagadhi.  The  eastern  dialect  (which  the 
scholiast  says  is  Gaudl,  or  Bengali)  should  be  spoken  by  buffoons ;  and 
the  Avanti  by  crafty  persons.  Let  Dakshinatya  (the  language  of 
Vidarbha,  according  to  the  scholiast)  be  employed  by  soldiers  and 
citizens ;  and  S'akari  by  S'akaras,  S'akas,  and  others.  The  Vahlika 
dialect  is  the  one  proper  for  celestial  (?)  personages,  Dravidi  for 
Dravidas,  etc.,  Abhiri  for  Abhiras,  Chandali  for  Pukkasas,  etc.,  the 
Abhiri  and  S'avarl  for  those  who  live  by  cutting  wood  and  gathering 
leaves,  and  Pai^achT,  the  speech  of  Pi^achas,  for  charcoal-burners. 
S'aurasenI  may  be  used  also  for  female  servants  of  the  more  respectable 
sort,  for  children,  eunuchs,  and  low  astrologers;  the  same,  and  oc- 
casionally Sanskrit,  for  madmen  and  sick  persons.    Prakrit  should  be 


ON  THE  RELATIONS  OP  THE  PRAE;rITS  TO  SANSKRIT.       61 

employed  by  those  wlio  are  intoxicated  by  authority  or  affected  by 
poverty,  by  mendicants  and  prisoners,  etc.  Sanskrit  should  be  as- 
signed to  the  better  sort  of  female  mendicants,  and  also,  as  some  say, 
to  queens,  ministers'  daughters,  and  harlots.  A  dialect  belonging  to 
the  country  from  which  each  character  of  low  origin  comes  should 
be  assigned  to  him;  and  the  language  employed  by  the  superior 
personages  should  vary  according  to  their  function.  Sanskrit  should 
be  occasionally  assigned  to  women,  female  friends,  children,  harlots, 
gamblers,  and  celestial  nymphs,,  with  the  view  of  [showing  their] 
cleverness."  '^ 

The  rules  here  given  are  quite  artificial,  as  it  would  be  absurd  to 
suppose  that  different  classes  of  persons  living  in  the  same  locality,  as 
most  at  least  of  the  dramatis  personae  would  do,  could  each  speak 
different  dialects,  and  that,  too,,  the  dialects  of  other  and  perhaps 
distant  provinces.. 

I  shaU,  conclude  this  section  by  adding  the  substance  of  what  Pro- 
fessor Lassen  says  about  the  Prakrit  dialects  in  the  earlier  portion  of 
his  work  (pp.  22,  25-29). 

"The  word  pr&krita,  comes  from  prakriti  (procreatrix),  'nature,' 
and  means  'derived;'  the  several  Prakrit  dialects  being  regarded  as 
derivatives  of  Sanskrit  either  directly  or  mediately.  The  original 
language  from  which  any  other  springs  is  called  its  pralcriti,  or  source. 
Thus  Hemachandra  says,  'Prakrit  has  its  origia  in  Sanskrit;  that 
which  is  derived,  or  comes  from  the  latter,  is  called  prahrita.'  '*  The 
expressions  Sanskrit  and  Prakrit  are  opposed  to  each  other  in  another 
sense,  when  the  former  word  denotes  men  of  cultivated  minds,  and  the 
latter  those  who  are  uncultivated.  The  term  Prakrit  is  therefore  also 
applied  to  vulgar  and  provincial  forms  of  speech. 

"  The  grammarians  concur  in  considering  Maharashtrl  as  in  the 
strictest  sense  of  the  word  Prakrit,  the  principal  form  or  type  of 
Prakrit.  The  S'aurasenI  and  the  MagadhI  approach  most  nearly  to 
the  Maharashtrl,  and  both  derive  their  appellations  from  the  names 
of  provinces.  By  these  three  provincial  designations,  Maharashtrl, 
S'auraseni,   and  Magadhi,   the   Indian   grammarians   appear  to   have 

83  SaMtya  Darpana  in  Biiliotlieca  Indica,  No.  53,, pp.  172, 173.    (See  also  Lassen, 
Instit.  LingusB  Praor.,  pp.  35,  36.) 
9*  Hemachandra,  viii.  1,  Lassen,  p.  26 ;  quoted  above,  p.  44. 


52  INDIAN  GEAMMAEIANS  ON  THE  PRAKRITS. 

understood  the  local  varieties  of  language  employed  in  those  three 
several  provinces,  as  well  as  the  dramatic  dialects  severally  so  called. 
Vararuchi  specifies  only  one  inferior  dialect,  the  Paisachi,  and  under- 
stands hy  it  the  form  of  speech  employed  by  the  lowest  classes  of  men. 
This  is  to  be  distinguished  from  the  speech  of  Pi^achas  (goblins), 
which,  when  introduced  on  the  stage,  are  said  to  use  a  gibberish 
totally  ungrammatical.  The  word  is  to  be  understood  as  figuratively 
used  to  denote  the  contempt  in  which  the  lowest  classes  were  held. 
Hemaohandra  mentions  a  variety  of  this  dialect,  the  Chulika-paiiachi, 
which  denotes  a  form  of  speech  lower  than  even  the  former.  In  fact 
two  varieties  of  Paisachi  appear  to  be  distinguished  by  the  gramma- 
rians,'" both  of  them  spoken  by  barbarous  tribes,  of  which  the  one 
seems  to  belong  to  northern,  the  other  to  southern,  India.  Bama 
Tarkavagisa  also  mentions  two  sorts  of  Paisachi,  signifying  by  this 
name  a  rude  mixture  of  language  drawn  from  different  idioms. 

"The  term  apabhransa  is  applied  by  the  grammarians  to  those  dialects 
which  are  the  furthest  removed  from  the  pure  Sanskrit  original,  and 
have  undergone  the  greatest  corruption.  Hemachandra  specifies  two 
kinds,  of  which  one  has  most  affinity  with  the  principal  Prakrit,  and 
the  other  with  the  S'aurasenl.  The  older  writers  assign  this  dialect 
to  the  people  who  dwell  on  the  shores  of  the  western  ocean,  especially 
the  Abhiras.  Eama  Tarkavagisa,  departing  from  the  view  of  the 
earlier  writers,  ascribes  the  varieties  of  the  local  and  provincial  dialects 
to  the  apabhransa,  as  their  source.  The  same  author  seems  also  (when 
he  uses  (iii.  1)  the  words  nagddikramat,  "according  to  the  manner  of 
those  who  speak  like  Nagas,  or  serpents,  etc."),  to  assign  a  mytho- 
logical name  to  the  provincial  dialects  in  the  same  way  as  the  older 
writers  talk  of  certain  barbarous  tribes  as  Pisaohas.  This  designation 
appears  to  have  proceeded  from  the  writers  on  rhetoric,  who  assign 
Sanskrit  to  the  gods :  Prakrit  is  then  left  for  men ;  while  those  whom 
the  Brahmans  consider  to  be  scarcely  deserving  of  the  name  of  men, 
Chandalas,  Abhiras,  and  such  like,  are  only  fit  to  utter  the  speech  of 
goblins,  or  serpents. 

"  The  Prakrit  dialects  employed  in  the  dramas  are  rightly  asserted 
by  the  grammarians  to  be  of  Sanskrit  origin ;  for  both  the  grammatical 
forms  and  the  words,  with  very  few  exceptions,  as  well  as  the  entire 
9*  See  the  passage  quoted  in  p.  48. 


PALI,  ITS  RELATIONS  TO  SANSKRIT  AND  PRAKRIT.  53 

structure  of  the  Prakrits,-  and  the  character  of  their  syntax,  are 
derived  from  the  Sanskrit.  When,  however,  the  more  recent  gram- 
marians assert  the  same  of  the  Canarese  and  other  South-Indian 
dialects,  they  are  in  error,  as,  although  these  languages  contain  words 
formed  ftora  Sanskrit  according  to  certain  rules,  their  grammatical 
forms  and  primary  words  cannot  by  any  possibility  have  been  drawn 
from  that  source." 

I  will  hereafter  show  (when  I  come  to  refer  more  particularly 
to  the  South-Indian  languages)  that  the  Indian  grammarians  of  the 
south .  claim  for  the  Telugu,  and  no  doubt  for  the  Tamul,  CanaresCj 
and  Malay alim,  also,  an  origin  quite  independent  of  the  Sanskrit. '° 

Sect.  Y. — The  Pali,  and  its  Relations  to  SansTcrit  and  Prakrit. 

The  above  tabular  comparison  of  the  Prakrits  with  the  modern  ver- 
naculars, win  have  abundantly  shown;  that  the  latter  are  derived  from 
the  former,  or  from  some  kindred  sources,  and  that  both  are  derived 
in  great  part  from  the  Sanskrit,  at  some  period  of  its  history,  the  one 
mediately,  the  other  more  immediately.  Although,  however,  it  be 
sufllciently  clear,  both  from  the  authority  of  the  native  grammarians' 
and  by  a  comparison  of  the  Sanskrit  and  the  Prakrits,  that  the  latter 
are  derived  from  the  former,  yet  the  later  Prakrits  do  not  represent 
the  derivative  form  of  speech  which  stands  nearest  to  the  Sanskrit; 
and  we  are  in  a  position  to  point  out  a  dialect  which  approaches  yet 
more  closely  to  the  latter  than  the  Prakrits  do.  I  mean  the  Pali,  or 
sacred  language  of  the  Buddhists ;  a  language  which  is  extinct  in 
India,  but  in  which  numerous  canonical  books  of  the  Bauddha  religion, 
still  extant  in  Burmah  and  Ceylon,  are  written."' 

Though,  however,  this  language  has  had  the  singular  fate  of  having 
now  disappeared  from  its  native  soil,  to  become  a  sacred  language  in 
foreign  countries)  it  is  yet  nothing  more  than  one  of  the  ancient 

's  See  Dr.  Caldwell's  Comp.  Grammar  of  the  Dravidian  languages,  pp.  30,  31 ;  the 
Introduction  to  Campbell's  Telugu  Grammar,  3rd  edit.,  Madras,  1849,  pp.  xv.  ff. ;  and 
the  Note,  in  the  same  work,  by  Mr.  Ellis,  to  Mr.  Campbell's  Introduction,  pp.  H-22. 

"  If  any  Brahmanical  reader  should  think  of  studying  these  pages,  I  hope  that 
the  connexion  of  the  Pali  language  with  the  Buddhist  religion  will  not  deprive  it 
of  all  interest  in  his  eyes,  much  less  induce  him,  with  the  author  of  the  Nyaya  mala 
yistara,  I.  3,  4,  to  regard  it,  though  of  pure  Sanskrit  original,  as  polluted,  like  cow's 
milk  in  a  dog's  skin  {nahi putam  syad  gokshlram  sva-dritau  dhritam),  by  the  Jinholy 
contact  of  these  heretics. 


54  PALI,  ITS  EELATIONS  TO  SANSKEIT  AND  PEAKRIT. 

vernacular  dialects  of  Northern  India.  Magadhi  is  the  appellation 
which  the  Buddhists  of  Ceylon  themselves  give  to  it.  It  is,  indeed, 
true,  as  we  are  informed  by  Mr.  Tumour,  that  the  "  Buddhists  are 
impressed  with  the  conviction  that  their  sacred  and  classical  language, 
the  Magadhi  or  Pali,  is  of  greater  antiquity  than  the  Sanskrit;  and 
that  it  had  attained  also  a  higher  state  of  refinement  than  its  rival 
tongue  had  acquired.  In  support  of  this  belief  they  adduce  various 
arguments,  which  in  their  judgment  are  quite  conclusive.  They 
observe  that  the  very  word  '  Pali  '  signifies,  original,  text,  regularity ; 
and  there  is  scarcely  a  Buddhist  Pali  scholar  in  Ceylon  who,  in  the 
discussion  of  this  question,  will  not  quote,  with  an  air  of  triumph, 
their  favourite  verse,  sd  Magadhi  mula-hhdsd  nmra  yay' adihappihd  | 
brahmdno  eK assutaldpd  Samluddhd  thdpi  hhdsare.  '  There  is  a  lan- 
guage which  is  the  root  (of  all  languages) ;  men  and  Brahmans  at  the 
commencement  of  the  creation,  who  had  never  before  heard  or  uttered 
a  human  accent,  and  even  the  supreme  Buddhos  spoke  it:  it  is 
Magadhi."^  This  verse"  is  a  quotation  from  Kachchayano's  Gram- 
mar, the  oldest  referred  to  in  the  Pali  literature  of  Ceylon.  The 
original  is  not  extant  in  this  island."""  Mr.  Tumour,  however,  is 
inclined  to  "  entertain  an  opinion  adverse  to  the  claims  of  the 
Buddhists  on  this  particular  point  [the  priority  of  Pali  to  Sanskrit]. 
The  general  results  of  the  researches  hitherto  made  by  Europeans, 
both  historical  and  philosophical,  unquestionably  converge,"  he  thinks, 

98  Mabawanso,  Introduction,  p.  xxii ;  see  also  p.  xxTii.  Mr.  Childers  translates 
thus  :  "  The  Magadhi  is  the  original  language  in  which  men  of  former  Kalpas,  and 
Brahmas  by  whom  speech  has  not  been  heard,  and  supreme  Buddhas  speak."  The 
"  Brahmas  "  are,  he  thinks,  the  inhabitants  of  the  upper  Brahma  worlds.  The  idea  en- 
tertained by  the  Buddhists  of  the  superiority  of  the  Pali  to  Sanskrit  may  also  be  learnt 
from  the  following  passage  of  the  commentary  on  rthe  Grammar  called  Rupasiddhi, 
describing  the  result  of  the  composition  of  Kachchayano's  Grammar:  eioam  sati  r,ana- 
desa-ihaM-sa/ckatadi-khalita-ivacAanam  anakaraih  j'etwa  Tathagatena  ivuttaya  su- 
bhawa  niruttiya  auMena  Buddha-waehanam  ugganhisscmti  \  "  This  being  done,  men, 
overcoming  the  confusion  and  incorrectness  of  diction,  arising  from  the  mixture  of 
Sanskrit  and  other  dialects  of  Tarious  countries,  will,  by  conformity  to  the  rules 
of  grammar  propounded  by  the  Tathstgata  (Buddha),  easily  acquire  the  doctrine  of 
Buddho."  — Mahawanso,  lutrod.,  pp.  xxvi,  xxvii. 

"  Preserved  in  the  grammar  called  Payogasiddhi.  Tumour,  p.  xxvii.  Mr.  Childers 
tells  me  that  the  verse  does  not  occur  in  Kachchayana. 

'"o  This  grammar  is  now  in  the  hands  of  scholars,  and  parts  of  it  have  been  pub- 
ished  by  Mr.  D'Alwis  and  Dr.  Kuhn.  Mr.  Childers  says  that  it  is  in  the  hands  of 
every  native  scholar,  and  must  have  been  so  in  Mr.  Tumour's  time. 


APPEARANCE  OF  BUDDHA.  55 

"to  prove  the  greater  antiquity  of  the  Sanskrit.  Even  in  this  island," 
he  proceeds,  "  all  works  on  astronomy,  medicine,  and  (such  as  they  are) 
on  chemistry  and  mathematics,  are  exclusively  written  in  Sanskrit: 
while  the  works  on  Buddhism,  the  histories  subsequent  to  the  advent 
of  Gotamo  Buddho,  and  certain  philological  works  alone,  are  composed 
in  the  Pali  language  "  (Mahawanso,  Introd.  pp.  xxii,  xxiii).  There 
is  no  question  that  Mr.  Tumour  is  right,  and  that  the  priests  of 
Ceylon,  who  are  no  philologists,  are  wrong.  The  Pali  bears  as  distinct 
traces  of  derivation  from  Sanskrit,  in  an  early  stage  of  its  development, 
as  any  of  the  other  northern  dialects.  Before,  however,  adducing  the 
proofs  of  this,  I  must  give  some  account  of  the  manner  in  which  the 
Pali  was  introduced  into  Ceylon. 

The  appearance  of  Buddha  as  a  religious  reformer  in  Iforthem 
Hindustan  seems  to  have  taken  place  in  the  earlier  part  of  the  sixth 
century  before  Christ.  He  is  said  to  have  entered  on  his  mission  in 
the  year  588,  and  to  have  died  in  543  B.C.  (Turnour,  Introd.  to 
Mahaw.,  p.  xxix).'°'  In  strong  contrast  to  the  Brahmans,  he  and  his 
followers  strove  to  disseminate  their  hew  doctrines  in  a  popular  shape 
among  all  classes  of  society;  and  for  this  purpose  employed,  where 
necessary,  the  current  vernacular  dialects  of  their  age  and  country, 
though,  at  the  same  time,  they  may  have  used  both  Sanskrit  and 
MagadhI  in  the  composition  of  their  sacred  works  (Lassen,  Ind.  Alt.  ii. 
492,  f. ;  1147,  f ;  Burnouf,  Lotus  de  la  Bonne  Loi,  p.  862).'™  Three 
Buddhist  synods  were  held  at  different  periods  within  300  years  after 

^<"  The  grounds  for  preferring  the  Cingalese  date  of  Buddha's  death,  543  or 
544  B.C.,  to  that  of  the  Northern  Buddhists,  are  set  forth  by  Lassen,  Ind.  Alt., 
vol.  ii.,  pp.  51-61.  See  especially  pp.  60,  61.  The  historical  value  of  the  Buddhist 
records  is,  according  to  Mr.  Turnour  (Introd.,  p.  xxviii),  assured  in  the  following 
way : — "  The  age  in  which  we  now  live  is  the  Buddhotpado  of  Gotamo  [the  interval 
between  the  manifestation  of  one  Buddho  and  the  epoch  when  his  religion  becomes 
extinct].  His  religion  was  destined  to  endure  5,000  years;  of  which  2,380  have 
now  passed  away  (a.d.  1837)  since  his  death,  and  2,620  are  yet  to  come.  ...  By 
this  fortunate  fiction,  a  limitation  has  been  prescribed  to  the  mystification  in  which 
the  Buddhistical  creed  has  involved  all  the  historical  data  contained  in  its  literature 
anterior  to  the  advent  of  Gotama.  .  .  .  The  mystification  of  the  Buddhistical  data 
ceased  a  century  at  least  prior  to  B.C.  688,  when  Prince  Siddhattho  attained  Buddho- 
hood,  in  the  character  of  Gotamo  Buddho." 

112  Benfey  has  expressed  a  different  opinion  on  one  point.  He  says  (Indien,  p.  194), 
the  Buddhist  books  of  Nepal  composed  in  Sanskrit  are,  "  as  we  shall  hereafter  show 
to  be  probable,  merely  translations  from  the  Buddhist  sources,  which  were  originally 
composed  in  Pali." 


56         THE  BUDDHIST  SYNODS ;   DIFFUSION  OF  BUDDHISM. 

Buddha's  death,  for  the  collection  and  arrangement  of  the  sacred  works 
which  expounded  the  doctrines  and  discipline  of  his  religion  ;  for  the 
correction  of  errors  and  abuses;  and  for  the  purpose  of  propagating 
the  new  faith  in  foreign  countries.  The  revelations  of  Buddha  are 
stated  by  his  followers  "  to  have  been  orally  pronounced  in  Pali,  and 
orally  perpetuated  for  upwards  of  four  centuries,  till  the  close  of  the 
Buddhistical  age  of  inspiration."  They  consist  of  the  Pitakattaya 
[in  Sanskrit  Pitakatraya],  or  the  three  pitakas,  which  now  form  the 
Buddhistical  Scriptures,  divided  into  the  Vinaya,  Abhidharma,  and 
Sutra  pitakas.  A  schism  having  arisen  after  Buddha's  death,  the  first 
Buddhist  council  was  held  iu  543,  when  the  authenticity  of  this  Pali 
collection  was  established,  and  commentaries  upon  it,  called  Atthaka- 
tha,  were  promulgated.  At  the  second  council,  in  443  B.C.,  the  autho- 
rity of  thfe  Pitakattaya  was  again  vindicated,  and  the  Atthakatha 
delivered  on  that  occasion  completed  the  history  of  Buddhism  for  the 
interval  subsequent  to  the  previous  council.  In  the  year  309  B.C.,  the 
third  council  was  held  in  the  reign  of  Eing  A^oka,  who  was  a  zealous 
promoter  of  Buddhism  [Turnour,  p.  xxix].  Various  missions  were 
consequently  undertaken."'  Mahendra,  the  son  of  King  Asoka,  was 
sent  on  a  mission  to  Ceylon,  for  the  conversion  of  that  island. 

The  following  account  of  his  proceedings  is  given  by  the  native 
authorities,  as  abstracted  by  Professor  Lassen  (Ind.  Alt.  ii.  pp.  247- 
253) : — Mahendra  arrived  in  Ceylon  in  the  year  245  e.g.,  was  hospita- 
bly received  by  the  king  of  the  island,  and  began  by  his  preaching  to 
convert  the  inhabitants  to  the  religion  of  Buddha.  The  king  himself 
embraced  the  new  doctrine.  Eelios  of  Buddha  were  transported  to 
the  island  from  Northern  India,  and  the  Bodhi  tree,  under  which 
Buddha  had  attained  the  most  perfect  knowledge,  was  transplanted 
thither  from  Behar,  and,  according  to  the  belief  of  the  Buddhists,  con- 
tinues to  flourish  to  the  present  time.  Many  miracles  attended  these 
transactions.  The  conversions  to  Buddhism  continued;  and  many  male 
and  female  devotees  were  consecrated  to  the  Buddhist  priesthood. 
Buddhism,  thus  introduced,  has  ever  since  remained  the  creed  of 
Ceylon ;  and  that  island,  the  head-quarters  of  Southern  Buddhism,  and 
the  seed-plot  from  which  it  was  propagated  into  Burmah  and  other 
parts  of  Transgangetic  India,  is  regarded  in  those  countries  as  a  holy 
"3  See  Lassen,  Ind.  Alt.,  ii.,  pp.  79,  86,  229,  ff.,  and  234-240. 


LANGUAGE  OF  THE  BtTDDHIST  SORIPTUEES.  57 

land.  In  Ceylon  there  exists,  as  has  been  already  mentioned,  an  ex- 
tensive Buddhistic  literature,  which  fills  up  an  important  blank  in  that 
of  the  Brahmans.  This  literature  is,  as  has  been  stated,  in  Pali.  At 
first,  however,  the  principal  sacred  records  of  the  Buddhists  are  said  to 
have  been  handed  down  by  oral  tradition.  Mr.  Tumour  (p.  xxix) 
gives  the  following  statement  on  this  subject  from  the  native  autho- 
rities :  The  Pitakattaya,  together  with  the  Atthakatha,  completed  to 
the  era  of  the  third  Council,  were  orally  promulgated  in  Ceylon  by 
Mahendra,  the  Pitakattaya  in  PaU,  and  the  Atthakatha  in  Cingalese, 
with  a  further  Atthakatha  of  his  own.  These  works  were,  it  is  said, 
propounded  orally  by  his  inspired  disciples  and  successors  till  the  close 
of  the  period  of  inspiration,  which  occurred  in  Ceylon  between  104 
and  76  b.c.  They  were  then  committed  to  writing,  the  text  (Pitaka- 
ttaya) in  Pali  (in  which  it  had  before  been  handed  down  orally),  and 
its  commentaries  in  Cingalese.  This  event  is  thus  celebrated  in  the 
Mahawanso,  chap  33,  p.  207.  Pittaka-ttaya-palim,  cha  tassa  attha- 
katham  cha  tarn  \  mukha-pdthena  anesurh  pubhe  hhikkhu  mahdmati  | 
hanim  diswana  saitanam  taia  hhikkhu  samdgata  |  ohiratthiiattham 
dhammasm  potthakesu  likhdpayum  \  "  The  wise  Bhikkhus  of  earlier 
times  had  handed  down  orally  both  the  text  (Pali)  of  the  three  pitakas, 
and  their  atthakatha.  But  at  that  period,  perceiving  the  injury  which 
would  otherwise  be  sustained  by  the  people,  the  Bhikkhus  assembled 
and  caused  them  to  be  written  down  in  books  for  the  more  lasting 
stability  of  the  faith."  About  500  years  later,  in  the  period  between 
410  and  432  a.d.,  Buddhaghosa  transferred  the  Cingalese  Atthakatha 
into  Pali,  as  related  in  the  37th  Chapter  of  the  Mahawanso.  These 
PaU  versions  of  the  Buddhist  scriptures  and  their  commentaries  are 
those  now  extant  in  Ceylon,  and  they  are  identically  the  same  with 
the  Siamese  and  Burmese  versions. 

Such  are  the  Buddhist  traditions  regarding  the  oral  transmission  of 
their  sacred  books,  viz.,  the  scriptures  themselves  in  Pali,  and  the 
commentaries,  etc.,  in  Cingalese,  and  their  subsequent  consignment  to 
writing.  It  is  to  be  remarked,  however,  that  so  much  of  this  narrative 
as  records  the  oral  transmission  of  these  works,  is  distinctly  rejected  by 
Mr.  Turnour,  who  says,  p.  Ivii.,  "although  there  can  be  no  doubt  as 
to  the  belief  entertained  by  Buddhists  here,  that  these  scriptures  were 
perpetuated  oraUy  for  453  years  before  they  were  reduced  to  writing. 


58         INTEODUOTION  OF  PALI  IKTO  CEYLON. 

being  founded  on  superstitious  imposture,  originating  perhaps  in.  the 
priesthood  denying  to  all  but  their  own  order  access  to  their  scriptures, 
yet  there  is  no  reasonable  ground  for  questioning  the  authority  of  the 
history  thus  obtained  of  the  origin,  recognition,  and  revisions  of  these 
Pali  scriptures." 

Regarding  the  introduction  of  Pali  into  Ceylon,  different  views  have 
been  taken.  In  his  "  Institutiones  Linguae  Pracriticae,"  Professor 
Lassen  remarks  as  foUows  (pp.  60,  61) : — 

"It  is  clear  that  the  Pali  is  the  sacred  language  of  the  Southern 
Buddhists,  i.e.  of  those  who  departing,  for  the  most  part,  from  the 
shores  of  Kalinga,  towards  the  south,  carried  with  them,  first  of  all, 
the  doctrines  of  Buddhism  into  Ceylon,  and  eventually  propagated  them 
them  in  India  beyond  the  Ganges." 

And  again : — 

"While  the  Pali  is  connected  with  the  emigration  of  Buddhism  to 
the  south,  it  was  itself,  without  doubt,  produced  in  India.  It  is  by 
no  means  clear  whether  the  Buddhists,  when  they  travelled  southwards, 
made  use  of  the  Pali  language  from  the  first  or  not ;  but  indeed,  as 
the  commencement  of  the  emigration  to  Ceylon  can  scarcely  be  placed 
earlier  than  from  628-643  before  Christ,  the  application  of  the  Pali 
dialect  as  a  vehicle  for  communicating  the  Buddhist  doctrines  can 
hardly  have  taken  place  earlier  than  that  period.  How  much  more 
recent  it  may  be,  I  leave  to  those  who  may  be  endeavouring  to  trace 
the  history  of  this  sect  to  discover." 

In  his  later  work,  however,  the  "  Indian  Antiquities "  (vol.  ii., 
pp.  488-490),  Lassen  proposes  the  foEowing  theory  on  the  subject, 
which  I  translate,  with  slight  abridgements : — 

"  The  Pali  language  is  called  by  the  Buddhists  of  Ceylon  Magadhi, 
and  it  ought  consequently  to  have  had  its  birthplace  in  Magadha. 
This,  however,  cannot  have  been  the  case,  as,  like  the  majority  of  the 
dramatic  dialects,  it  does  not  possess  the  peculiarities  of  the  Magadhi. 
The  Buddhists  are  also  wrong  when  they  declare  the  Pali  to  be  the 
root  of  the  Sanskrit,  and  assert  that  Katyayana  restored  it  to  its 
original  perfection  by  purifying  it  from  all  intermixture  of  Sanskrit 
and  the  provincial  dialects.  "We  shall  therefore  have  to  seek  for  the 
birthplace  of  the  Pali  elsewhere  than  in  Magadha.  "W"e  must  neces- 
sarily assume  it  to  have  been  once  a  vernacular  dialect,  as  it  is  other- 


BIRTHPLACE  OF  PALI.  59 

wise  impossible  to  perceive  why  it  should  have  been  selected  as  the 
language  of  the  sacred  writings.  There  is,  besides,  nothing  in  its 
character  which  is  opposed  to  the  supposition  that  it  was  once  a  spoken 
tongue.  If  we  compare  it  with  the  language  of  the  "Western  inscrip- 
tions, we  find  that,  generally  speaking,  they  stand  both  equally  re- 
moved from  the  Sanskrit,'  for  if  the  one  presents  some  forms  which 
are  older,  the  other  again  has  other  forms  whi<!h  are  more  ancient."* 
The  western  inscriptions  have,  in  addition  to  other  differences,  also 
the  peculiar  phonetic  rule  of  changing  tva  into  pta  (e.g.  dasayitva 
[Sanskrit  dariayitva'\  into  dmayipta),  which  is  unknown  to  the  Pali, 
as  well  as  to  the  dramatic  dialects.  These  discrepancies  render  it 
impossible  to  identify  the  Pali  with  the  language  of  the  western 
inscriptions.  It  is  besides  to  be  observed,  that  Buddhism  had  not  its 
principal  seat  on  the  western  coast,  where  the  dialect  in  question  was 
vernacular." 

Thus,  according  to  Lassen,  the  Pali  is  neither  identifiable  with  the 
Magadhi,  the  language  of  Eastern  Hindustan,  nor  with  the  dialects 
of  "Western  India,  as  made  known  by  the  western  inscriptions.  • 

"  In  the  absence  of  any  other  circumstance  to  indicate  the  birthplace 
of  the  Pali  (Professor  Lassen  proceeds),  I  propose  the  following  con- 
jecture on  the  subject.  I  assume  that  Katyayana  selected  the  speech 
of  the  country  in  which  he  was  engaged  in  propagating  Buddhism,  i.e. 
of  Malwa.  Of  the  Prakrits  employed  in  the  dramas,  the  S'aurasenI  is 
the  one  most  frequently  employed,  and  is  the  variety  used  in  the 
prose  passages.  Vararuchi  derives  it  immediately  from  the  Sanskrit, 
and  from  it  the  other  dramatic  dialects.  He  must  therefore  have  con- 
sidered it  as  the  oldest,  though  he  (as  well  as  his  successors),  regards 
the  dialect  called  Maharashtri  as  the  principal.  These  twd  dialects 
stand  the  nearest  to  the  Pali,  though  it  is  decidedly  older  than  they 
are.     I  conjecture,  therefore,  that  we  may  regard  it  as  the  oldest  form 

'"*  Thus  the  language  of  the  inscriptiona  .preserves  the  s  before  t  and  th,  as  in  asti, 
in  sesthe,  and  in  usthana  ;  and  the  r  in  sarvva,  where  the  Pali  has  tth,  tth,  and  m. 
The  inscriptions,'  too,  preserve  the  Sanskrit  dative,  for  which  the  genitive  is  used  in 
Pali,  though  the  grammarians  recognize  the  existence  of  the  dative.  In  Pali  the 
ablative  in  sma,  as  well  as  mha,  and  the  locati-ve  in  smin  as  well  as  mhi,  are  found, 
though  they  are  rarely  used  in  composition.  In  the  inscriptions,  on  the  other  hand, 
the  locative  has  the  form  mhi,  while  the  ablative  of  words  in  a  is  5,  so  that  the 
pronominal  declination  of  this  case  has  not  yet  been  transferred  to  the  noun. 


60  REMARKS  ON  LASSEN'S  VIEWS. 

which  has  been  preserved  of  the  vernacular  language  of  "Western  India 
between  the  Jumna  river  and  the  Vindhya  range,  a  tract  which  in- 
cludes Malwa.  The  S'auraseni  would  consequently  present  a  later 
form  of  this  language.  From  TJjjayani  a,  knowledge  of  Katyayana's 
work  was  probably  diffused  over  the  Dekhan;  and  the  Cingalese 
derived  their  acquaintance  with  the  dialect  of  which  it  treated  from 
the  country  of  the  Damilas,  i.e.  the  TamUians,  or  the  Cholas.  In  that 
country,  Dipankara,  surnamed  Buddhapriya,  composed  his  new  ar- 
rangement of  that  work,  the  oldest  Pali  grammar  now  extant."^  As 
the  canonical  writings  in  Ceylon  were  not  translated  into  this  sacred 
dialect  till  the  beginning  of  the  fifth  century  a.d.,"*  the  knowledge  of 
it  appears  to  have  been  only  very  slowly  diffused  towards  the  south. 
The  grammar  just  referred  to  appears  to  be  more  ancient  than  that 
translation.  A  more  accurate  conclusion  regarding  this  portion  of  the 
history  of  the  languages  of  India  will  perhaps  result  from  a  complete 
investigation  of  the  writings  of  the  Southern  Buddhists." 

These  remarks  of  Lassen  afford,  perhaps,  scarcely  suflScient  grounds  for 
denying  that  the  Pali  was  introduced  into  Ceylon  from  Magadha.  The 
peculiarities  which  are  enumerated  by  Yararuchi  as  the  characteristics 
of  the  Magadhl,  as  it  existed  in  his  day,  such  as  the  substitution  of 
s  for  shy  and  s,  y  for  j,  sk  for  hsh,  I  for  r,  are,  after  all,  of  no  great 
consequence,  and  would  perhaps  be  regarded  by  learned  persons,  even 

105  «  The  oldest  version  of  the  compilation  from  Kachohayano's  Grrammar,"  says, 
Mr.  Tumour  (Introd.  to  Mahaw.  p.  xiv.),  "is  acknowledged  to  he  the  Rupasiddhi. 
I  quote  three  passages  ....  The  first  of  these  extracts  [from  the  conclusion  of  the^ 
Eupasiddhi]  ....  proves  the  work  to  be  of  very  considerable  antiquity,  from  its 
having  been  composed  in  the  Daksina,  while  Buddhism  prevailed  there  as  the  religion 
of  the  state."  This  quotation  is  as  follows : — wikhyatananda-thermohaya-wara- 
guruncm  Tamiapanni-Mhajmam  sisso  Dipa/nkarakhyo  Damila-wasumati  dipa- 
laddha-ppakaso  Baladichchadi-wasa-ddwitayam  adhiwasan  sasanam  jotayt  yo  soyam 
Bitddha-piyyawho  yati  imam  ujukam  Bupasiddhim  akasi  \  which,  with  the  aid  of 
Mr.  Tumour's  version,  I  translate  as  follows : — "  The  celebrated  teacher  Anando, 
who  was  a  rallying  point  like  a  standard  to  Tambapajini  (Ceylon),  had  a  disciple 
called  DTpankaro.  The  latter,  who  had  obtained  renown  in  the  land  of  Damila,  and 
was  the  superintendent  of  tvto  religious  houses,  called  Baladichcha,  etc.,  illustrated 
the  religion  of  Buddha.  He  was  the  devotee  who  bore  the  appellation  of  Buddhapiyo, 
and  composed  this  perfect  Rupasiddhi." 

ifs  This  statement  of  Lassen  disagree*  with  the  account  given  by  Mr.  Tumour, 
on  native  authority  (quoted  above,  p.  57),  that  the  Pitakattaya  had  been  handed 
down  in  Pali  from  the  first.  See  also  the  Journal  of  the  Asiatic  Society  of  Bengal 
for  1837,  pp.  603,  flf. 


EXTRACT  FROM  BtTRNOUP'S  LOTUS  DE  LA  BONNE  LOI.       61 

in  Magadha  itself,  rather  as  vulgar  provincialisms,  than  essential 
characteristics  of  their  language.  If  so,  such  varieties  would  naturally 
be  discarded  by  educated  men  acquainted  with  Sanskrit,  when  they 
came  to  form  for  themselves  a  literary  language. 

The  early  Buddhist  teachers  appear  to  have  been  in  the  habit  of 
travelling  over  the  whole  of  the  central  parts  of  Iforthem  India,  and 
must  have  been  acquainted  with  the  languages  of  its  different  pro- 
vinces. When,  therefore,  they  set  themselves  to  compose  works  which 
were  intended  for  circulation  in  all  these  different  regions,  they  would 
naturally  adopt  the  most  correct  and  approved  forms  of  speech  which 
were  current  anywhere  within  those  limits.  The  case  is  quite  different 
in  regard  to  the  dramatic  compositions  of  India,  which  would  preserve 
the  most  salient  points  of  every  provincial  patois,  as  works  of  this 
class  derive  a  considerable  part  of  their  attraction  from  depicting,  or 
even  exaggerating  local  peculiarities. 

I  find  it  also  difficult  to  concur  in  Lassen's  opinion  as  to  the  period 
at  which  the  Pali,  or  MagadhI,  was  introduced  into  Ceylon.  Mahendra 
and  his  followers,  who  were  no  doubt  numerous,  must  necessarily  have 
carried  with  them  the  language  of  their  native  country ;  and  not  only 
so,  but  they  may  have  been  the  bearers  of  numerous  works  written  in 
that  language.  For  it  is  not  easy  to  receive  literally  the  account  given 
by  the  Ceylonese  writers  (which,  as  we  have  seen,  p.  54,  Mr.  Tumour 
also  rejects,)  of  the  time'  at  which  their  religious  works  were  first 
committed  to  writing,  or  to  suppose  that  the  foreign  propagators  of 
Buddhism,  who  would  at  first  be  ignorant  of  Cingalese,  should,  at  the 
period  of  their  arrival,  have  had  no  records  in  their  own  language  of 
the  new  religion  which  they  were  introducing,  or  that  these  records 
should  not  have  been  safely  handed  down  to  their  successors. 

M.  Eugene  Burnouf,  in  the  course  of  a  comparison  which  he  is 
instituting  between  a  paragraph  extracted  from  a  Pali  work,  one 
of  the  books  of  the  Buddhist  canon,  the  Digha  Nikaya,  and  a  parallel 
passage  from  a  Nepalese  Sanskrit  work,  makes  the  following  observa- 
tion on  the  language  in  which  the  former  is  composed,  from  which 
it  wiU  be  observed,  that  he  does  not  controvert  the  derivation  of  the 
Pali  language  from  the  dialect  of  Magadha : — 

"It  is  quite  possible  that  these  two  versions  may  have  been  nearly 
contemporaneous  in  India,  and  have  been  current  there  from  the 


62  QUOTATIONS  PEOM  PEOFESSOE.S 

earliest  period  of  Suddhiem,  before  the  events  occurred  which  trans- 
ported them  to  Ceylon.  The  Pali  version  would  be  popular  among 
the  inferior  castes  and  the  hulk  of  the  people  of  Magadha  and  Oude, 
while  the  Sanskrit  version  was  used  by  the  Brahmans.  Still,  we 
should  not  be  justified  in  supposing  that  we  possessed  in  the  Pali  text 
the  authentic  version  of  this  passage  in  its  true  MagadhI  form,  since 
a  comparison  of  the  Indian  inscriptions  of  A^oka,  and  of  the  Pali  of 
Ceylon,  reveals  to  us  certain  differences  between  the  forms  of  these 
two  dialects^  StiU,  while  we  allow  for  the  degree  of  artificial  regu- 
larity which  the  cultivation  of  the  Pali  in  Ceylon  may  have  introduced, 
we  must  hold  that  the  Pali  version  of  this  passage  approaches  very 
closely  to  the  form  which  it  must  have  had  in  MagadhI." — (Zotus  de 
la  Bonne  Loi.     App.,  p.  Se^.) 

Professor  "Weber  (in  the  course  of  a  detailed  notice  of  the  Lotus  de 
la  Bonne  Loi,  in  his  Indische  Studien,  iii.,  176,  ff.)  remarks  as  follows 
on  this  passage : — "This  last  explanation  [that  the  Pali  was  elaborated 
in  Ceylon]  does  not  appear  to  me  satisfactory,  because  a  language 
carried  by  a  few  persons  along  with  them  into  a  foreign  country 
ordinarily  retains  its  ancient  character  unchanged.  It  is  further  very 
questionable  whether  the  cultivation  of  the  Pali  commenced  in 
Ceylon,  and  probability  speaks  rather  in  favour  of  the  supposition 
that  the  grammar  of  the  language  was  fixed  in  the  country  which 
was  its  home."  Weber  proceeds  to  observe,  that  the  Cingalese 
tradition  ascribes  the  origin  of  their  grammar  to  India;  and  thinks 
it  may  be  doubtful  whether  Pali  was  used  at  all  in  Ceylon  before 
the  arrival  there  of  Buddhaghosa  in  420  a.d.  For  though  a  trans- 
lation of  the  Sutras  is  said  to  have  been  made  into  the  Cingalese 
sixty  years  earlier  (which  seems  to  prove  that  the  Pali  was  under- 
stood aU  along),  yet  it  is  improbable,  he  conceives,  that,  if  it  had 
been  earnestly  studied  before  Buddhaghosa,  the  translation  of  the 
work  called  Atthakatha  would  have  been  so  long  deferred.  At  any 
rate,  he  thinks  the  arrival  of  this  teacher  appears  to  have  given  a  new 
impulse  to  the  study  of  Pali,  as  is  attested  by  the  composition  of  the 
Mahavansa  in  that  language,  fifty  years  later.  It  is  clear,  however, 
that  Weber  maintains  the  essential  identity  of  Pali  with  the  vernacular 
dialect  of  Magadha,  in  the  sixth  century  B.C.,  as  he  explains  the  more 
archaic  character  of  the  language  of  the  PaU  books,  the  Atthakatha 


"WEBER  AND  SPIEGEL,  63 

and  Tripitaka,  as  compared  with  the  language  of  the  Indian  inscrip- 
tions of  Asoka,  hy  supposing  that  (while  the  popular  dialect  had 
undergone  great  alterations  in  the  300  years  which  intervened  between 
Buddha's  death  and  the  date  of  the  inscriptions)  the  followers  of 
Buddha  may  have  made  it  a  rule  to  retain,  as  far  as  possible,  the 
dialect  in  which  Buddha  himself  spoke,  as  the  language  of  all  the 
discourses  which  actually  emanated  from  him,  or  were  ascribed  to 
him,  as  weU  as  of  all  the  narratives  of  which  he  formed  the  subject. 

I  quote  two  other  authorities  on  the  subject  of  the  early  introduc- 
tion of  Pali  into  Ceylon.  The  first  is  Professor  Spiegel,  who  remarks 
as  follows,  in  the  Preface  to  the  Kammavakya  (a  short  Buddhist  work 
edited  by  him,  and  translated  into  Latin)  : — "  It  appears  reasonable  to 
belicYe  that  the  Pali  was  introduced  by  the  Buddhists  into  Ceylon,  and 
carried  thence  into  Transgangetic  India.  An  extensive  intercourse 
existed  between  the  continent  of  India  and  Ceylon  from  the  earliest 
period,  and  the  mention  of  this  island  in  the  Eamayana  is  well  known. 
Six  Brahmanical  kings  are  enumerated  in  the  Mahavansa,  who,  as 
they  lived  before  the  age  of  A^oka,  must  no  doubt  have  employed 
another  language.  That  this  was  the  case  is  proved  by  the  multitude 
of  words  which  have  been  transferred  from  Sanskrit,  not  fi-om  Pali,  into 
the  Cingalese  language,  and  which  appear  to  have  been  introduced  in 
consequence  of  that  previous  intercourse  to  which  reference  has  been 
made.  Thus  we  find  in  Cingalese,  harm,  not  Icanna,  ear,  vaira,  not  vera, 
enmity,  the  use  of  the  visarga,  which  has  nearly  disappeared  from 
Pali,  as  weU  as  the  vowels  ri,  ri,  Iri,  Irl."  Spiegel  proceeds  : — "  We 
find  from  the  Cingalese  books,  that  the  Buddhists  arrived  in  Ceylon, 
bringing  with  them  the  PaU  language,  in  the  time  of  Devanampiyatissa, 
the  contemporary  of  A^oka,  who  reigned  from  260-219  B.C.  It  is 
probable  that  the  Pali  was  called  Magadhi  in  consequence  of  the 
mission  of  Anoka's  son  Mahendra  to  introduce  Buddhism  into  Ceylon. 
In  fact,  a  comparison  of  the  Pali  with  the  language  of  the  inscriptions 
which  have  descended  to  our  own  time,  leaves  no  doubt  that  the  two 
forms  of  speech  are  most  closely  connected.  Both  are  but  compara- 
tively little  removed  from  the  Sanskrit,  since  in  neither  of  them  is 
elision  of  letters  practised,  nor,  with  few  exceptions,  are  aspirated 
letters  commuted  into  h,  as  in  the  Prakrit." 

The  other  authority  I  shall  quote  is  Professor  Benfey,  who  thus 


64  QtrOTATIOKS  PEOM  PEOFESSOE  BENFET. 

writes  in  his  article  ou  India  (in  Ersct  and  Gruber's  German  Ency- 
clopsedia,  p.  194)  : — 

"  The  place  exterior  to  India,  where  Buddhism  became  first  estab- 
lished as  a  state  religion  (about  240  years  before  Christ)  under  the 
especial  auspices  of  Asoka,  Emperor  of  India,  was  Ceylon.  It  is 
therefore  to  be  assumed  that  at  that  period  all  which  was  of  importance 
on  the  subject  of  Buddhism,  was  brought  to  Ceylon  in  the  form  in 
which  it  then  existed.  Besides,  so  close  a  connexion  existed  between 
Ceylon  and  the  head-quarters  of  the  Indian  empire,  viz.,  the  regions 
lying  on  the  Bay  of  Bengal  (Bengal  itself  and  the  adjoining  provinces), 
that  the  Ceylonese  took  at  least  a  passive  share  in  the  development  of 
Buddhism.  Hence  their  books  appear  to  me  to  be  authorities  of  the 
greatest  consequence.  It  is  further  to  be  observed  that  these  works 
are  composed  in  Pali,  which  is  the  sacred  language  of  the  Buddhist  in 
Ceylon,  and  in  the  countries  converted  to  Buddhism  by  the  Ceylonese, 
and  which  was  the  predominating  popular  dialect  of  central  India." 

I  quote  another  passage,  to  a  similar  effect,  from  p.  260  of  the  same 
work  ;  and  although  there,  at  the  close,  the  author  speaks  doubffiilly 
of  the  derivation  of  Pali  from  the  province  of  Magadha,  and  of  the 
introduction  of  Buddhism  into  Ceylon  from  the  shores  of  the  Bay  of 
Bengal,  he  is  not  to  be  understood  as  throwing  any  uncertainty  on  the 
connexion  of  Pali  or  of  Buddhism  with  Northern  India  in  general. 

He  characterizes  the  Pali  as  "the  sacred  language  of  the  Buddhist 
writings  found  in  Ceylon  and  Transgangetic  India,  .  .  .  which 
is  shown  both  by  internal  and  external  indications  to  have  been  the 
vernacular  dialect  of  central  India,  and  which  was  diffused  along  with 
the  Buddhist  religion  in  the  countries  above  named,  where  it  soon 
acquired  the  same  sacredness  in  the  eyes  of  the  Buddhists,  which 
Sanskrit  possessed,  and  still  possesses,  for  the  Brahmans.  This 
language,"  he  continues,  "(though  distinct  proof  cannot  yet  be  adduced 
of  the  assertion),  is  one  of  the  very  oldest  of  the  Indian  vernaculars, 
and  was  already  in  popular  use  at  the  period  of  the  rise  of  Buddhism. 
It  was  probably  the  dialect  of  a  considerable,  I  mean  the  western, 
portion  of  Bengal.  It  was  from  this  point,  from  Banga  or  Kalinga, 
that,  according  to  the  Ceylonese  account.  Buddhism  was  introduced 
into  Ceylon :  and  yet  again  this  conjecture  becomes  uncertain,  owing 
to  the  fact  that  the  language  of  Magadha,  which  was  spoken  only  a 


ME.  D'ALWIS  ON  THE  OEIGIN  OF  THE  PALI.  65 

Kttle  to  the  north  of  the  Bay  of  Bengal,  and  which  (as  Anoka's  in- 
scription in  Cuttack  seems  to  haye  been  composed  in  it)  appears  also 
to  have  extended  towards  the  sonth,  varies  essentially  &om  the  Pali 
in  several  particulars."  Again,  in  p.  246,  Benfey  speaks  of  "the 
Pali,  as  varying  in  many  particulars  from  the  language  of  Magadha, 
and  approximating  to  the  principal  Prakrit  or  MaharashtrT,  dialect." 

But  it  matters  little  in  what  particular  province  we  suppose  the 
Pali  to  have  originated,  whether  in  Magadha,  or  in  some  country 
farther  to  the  westward  :  as  the  fact  remains  in  any  case  indubitable 
that,  perhaps  with  some  modifications,  it  represents  one  of  the  oldest 
Prakritic  dialects  of  northern  India. 

The  Buddhist  writers  assert,  as  we  have  already  seen,  that  the  Pali 
is  not  derived  from  the  Sanskrit ;  but  that,  on  the  contrary,  it  is  the 
primitive  language  from  which  all  others  are  descended.  These 
Buddhist  grammarians  were  no  doubt  led  away  by  their  prejudice  in 
fevour  of  the  dialect  which  they  or  their  predecessors  had  adopted  as 
the  depositary  of  their  sacred  literature;  and  by  a  prejudice  against 
the  Sanskrit,  which  was  venerated  by  their  rivals,  the  Brahmans. 
Even  Mr.  Clongh  says  (Pali  Grammar,  Advertisement,  p.  iii.),  with- 
out determining  the  question,  "it  has  long  been  a  contested  point 
whether  the  Pali  or  Sanskrit  be  the  more  ancient  language  of  India ; " 
and  contents  himseK  with  the  remark  that,  "it  is  certain  that  Pali 
was  the  popular  dialect  of  the  native  country  of  Buddho,  namely, 
Magadha,  before  the  powerful  sect,  founded  by  him,  was  expelled 
from  the  continent  of  India,  an  event  prior  to  the  Christian  era." 

The  following  is  the  conclusion  at  which  Mr.  James  D'Alwis  arrives 
after  a  long  investigation  of  the  subject  in  his  introduction  to  Sach- 
chayana's  Grrammar  (published  at  Colombo,  in  1863),  p.  cxxxii  : — 

"  "When,  therefore,  we  consider  the  high  state  of  refinement  to  which 
the  Pali  had  in  very  early  times  attained  as  a  language, — ^its  copious- 
ness, elegance  and  harmony,  combined  with  its  high  antiquity,  and  its 
comparative  simplicity,  both  verbally  and  grammatically, — its  relation- 
ship to  the  oldest  language  of  the  Brahmans,  from  which  their  present 
dialect  has  been  Sanshritized, — ^its  claims  to  be  considered  the  Vyava- 
harika-vak  of  the  Brahmans  to  which  the  Big  Veda  refers, — ^its  con- 
currence with  some  of  the  Indo-European  languages  in  some  forms 
which  differ  from  the  Sanskrit, — its  identification  with  the  only 


66  PROFESSOR  WEBER  ON  MR.  D'ALWIS'S  VIEWS. 

original  Prakrita  dialect,  which  was  'similar  to  the  Sanskrit,' — the 
absence  of  any  statement  in  old  Brahman  writers  to  the  eifect  that  that 
Prakrita  dialect  was  a  derivative  of  the  Sanskrit, — ^the  great  improba- 
bility of  a  derivative  being  denominated  the  [Prakriti]  Prakrita, — 
the  palpable  inaccuracy  of  the  definition  by  which  in  modem  times  it 
is  called  the  'derived,  the  vulgar,  or  the  ungrammatical,' — the  absence 
in  it  of  many  a  peculiarity  which  distinguishes  derivative  tongues, — 
and  the  probability  that  it  had  issued  from  the  same  ancient  seat 
(Bactria  or  Punjab)  from  whence  the  Sanskrit  itself  had  taken  an 
easterly  direction, — I  believe  it  may  be  concluded  that  the  PaU  and 
the  Sanskrit  are,  at  least,  two  dialects  of  high  antiquity,  contempo- 
raneously derived  from  a  source  of  which  few,  if  any,  traces  can  be 
discovered  at  the  present  day." 

In  a  review  of  Mr.  D'Alwis's  work  in  the  Journal  of  the  German 
Oriental  Society  for  1865,  vol.  xix.,  pp.  658,  ff..  Prof.  "Weber  notices 
thus  the  remarks  of  that  writer : — 

"The  long  investigation  which  the  author  then  institutes  (pp. 
Ixxiii-cxxxii)  regarding  the  antiquity  of  the  Pali  and  its  relation 
to  the  Sanskrit  conducts  him  rightly  to  the  conclusion  that  both 
dialects  were  'contemporaneously'  evolved  from  one  source  (viz., 
the  Vedic  language).  He  here  shows  himself  to  be  a  warm,  patriotic 
admirer  of  the  Pali,  but  allows  himself  here  and  there  to  be  carried 
away  by  this  feeling  beyond  the  proper  limits  into  a  depreciation  of 
the  Sanskrit,  and  specifically  to  assumptions  respecting  its  purely 
arbitrary  formation,  which  must  appear  to  the  European  reader  highly 
peculiar,"  etc.  "Nevertheless,  we  owe  even  to  this  part  of  his  labour 
the  acknowledgment  that  he  has  striven  to  the  best  of  his  power  to 
arrange  and  sketch  the  results  and  views  both  of  native  and  European 
scholars,  and  that  he  has  in  general  succeeded  well  in  doing  so.  It 
can  now  in  fact  no  longer  be  denied  that  it  is  better  to  understand  the 
name  Prakrita  in  the  sense  of 'natural,'  'original,'  'normal,'  'common,' 
'general,'  and  in  the  signification  perhaps  secondarily  deduced  there- 
from, of  '  common,'  '  low,'  than  in  the  sense  of  '  derived '  {samshritam 
prakritir  yasya)  assigned  to  the  word  by  the  grammarians."'    And  yet 

w  In  order  to  make  this  clause  more  intelligible,  I  quote  Mr.  D'Alwis's  interpre- 
tation of  the  word  Prakrita  from  an  earlier  page  of  his  introduction,  p.  xcii,  where 
he  writes  thus  :  "  Prakriti  b  therefore  that  which  is  natural,  or  the  nature  itself  of  a 


PROFESSOR  "WEBER  ON  MR.  D'ALWIS'S  YIEWS.  W/ 

the  assumption  that  the  Pali,  and  so  the  Prakrit,  are  derived  from  the 
•Sanskrit,  deserves  the  preference  over  the  converse  view  to  which 
D'Alwis  appears  here  and  there  to  be  not  indisposed,  viz.,  that  the  Pali, 
as  being  the-  most  ancient  Prakrit  which  has  been  handed  down  to 
ns,  stands  higher  in  point  of  originality  and  independence  than  the 
Sanskrit.  Por  it  is  cleai  that  the  Sanskrit,  both  in  its  phonetic 
system  and  flexions,  stands  much  closer  to  the  common  mother  of  it 
and  the  Pali  than  the  latter  does,™  and*  has  consequently  a  far  superior 
right  than'  it  to  be  regarded  as  the  representative  of  that  parent  lan- 
guage. A  perplexing  circumstance  connected  with  this  question,  and 
one  which  leads  to  many  sorts  of  mistakes,  is.  that  we  have  unfortu- 
nately no  proper  name  for  that  stage  of  the  language  which  lies  at 
the  foundation  of  both  the  '  sister  dialects,'  the  Pali  (and  Prakrit)  and 
the  Sanskrit,  i.e.  for  the  Vedic  vulgar  speech ;  for  the  names  bJiashd 
and  vyavaharikl  are  not  sufficiently  pregnant ;  and  one  is  consequently 

thing — that  which  is  pre-eminent — that  which  is  the  natural  or  quiescent  state  of 
anything — 'not  made.'  Hence  it  is  clear  that  the  correct  and  primary  sense  of  the 
word  Pra Ante, — indeed  that  whickwas  originally  assigned  to  it,  despite  the  so-called 
'  common  acceptation,' — was  '  original,'  '  root,'  '  natural.'  By  the  Prakrit  was  there- 
fore at  first  meant  the  original  Indian  language,  as  distinguished  from  the  apabhransa, 
'the  ungrammatical,'  and  the  Sanskrit,  signifying  [from  sam  'altogether',  or 
'together;'  and  An^a  ' done '=' altogether,'  or  ' completely  made,  done,  or  formed'] 
that  '  which  has  been  composed  or  formed  by  art,  adorned,  embeUished,  purified, 
highly  cultivated  or  polished','  and  regularly  inflected  as  a  language."  See  in  oppo- 
sition to  this  view  of  the  sense  of  the  word  prakrita,  Hemachandra's  interpretation 
of  it  given  above  in  p..  44,  and  Lassen's  explanation,  quoted  in  p.  61.  In  a  review,  of 
Prof.  Weber's  Ind.  Literaturgeschichte,  in  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society 
for  1853,  p.  605,  Prof.  Roth  thus  expresses  himself  on  this  question:  "Prakrit 
(according  to  the  derivation  which  seems  to  me  the  correct  one)  signifies  that  which 
Jias  its.  foundation  in  another  thing,  'the  derived,'  or  the  'to  be  derived.'  The 
expression  is  one  formed  by  grammarians,  and  has  a  grammatical  sense.  The 
grammarians  say  e.g.  sainhita  pada-prakritis ;  the  Sanhita  texts  have  for  their 
foundation  the  words,  i.e.  that  form  of  speaking  and  writing  the  texts  in  which 
the  end  and  beginning  of  the  words  which  follow-  one  another  in  a  sentence  are 
brought  into  harmony  with  the  general  phonetic  laws  of  Sanskrit  has  for  its 
foundation  the  single  words  conceived  in  their  original  form.  The  Sanhita  text  is 
thus  prakrita  in  relation  to  the  word-text,  the  pada-patha  :  it  is  a  derived  text  made 
for  a  scientific  purpose.  I  would  understand  the  word  prakrita  in  the  same  sense, 
when  it  is  applied  to  the  dialects."  In  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's  Sanskrit  Lexicon  the 
sense  "customary,"  "common,"  is  assigned'to  the  word  ^aAWVa  when  generally  used, 
while  of  the  dialect  so  oaUed  it  is  said :  "  The  '  common '  speech  is  that  spoken  by 
the  people,  which  the  grammarians  derive  from  Sanskrit." 

108  This,  however,  can  afl^ord  us  no  reason  to  deny  that  the  Pali  has  actually  pre- 
served older  forms  than  the  Sanskrit.    [Note  of  Prof.  Weber.] 


68         EEMAEKS  OF  BUENOUF  AND  LASSEN 

at  a  loss  how  to  designate  it.  Benfey's  excellent  remarks  at  p.  245 
of  his  article  Indien  (which  unfortunately  has  not  yet  been  re-written), 
regarding  the  dying  out  of  the  Sanskrit  as  a  vernacular  language  in 
the  sixth  century  b.o.  labour  under  this  disadvantage,  that  they  apply 
the  name  Sanskrit  for  a  period  for  which  it  is  in  no  way  applicable." 

The  views  of  Burnouf  and  Lassen  on  the  relation  of  the  Pali  to 
Sanskrit  are  thus  stated  in  their  Essai  sur  le  Pali,  pp.  138,  ff : 

"  The  PaU  is  derived  from  the  Sanskrit,  according  to  certain  rules, 
for  the  most  part  euphonic,  which  do  not  allow  the  derivative  language 
to  admit  certain  sounds  and  combinations  of  consonants,  common  in 
the  parent  tongue.  These  modifications  apply  equally  to  the  sub- 
stantive portions  of  the  words  and  to  their  terminations  and  inflec- 
tions. It  hence  results  that  there  is  no  grammatical  form  to  be  found 
in  Pali  of  which  the  origin  may  not  be  discovered  in  Sanskrit; 
and  that  there  is  no  occasion  to  call  in  the  influence  of  any  foreign 
idiom  to  explain  the  modifications  to  which  the  Pali  has  subjected  the 
Sanskrit. 

"When  the  PaU,  as  a  derivative  from  Sanskrit,  is  compared  with 
other  dialects  having  the  same  origin,  it  is  found  to  approach  far  more 
closely  than  any  of  those  others  to  that  common  source.  It  stands, 
so  to  speak,  on  the  first  step  of  the  ladder  of  departure  from  Sanskrit, 
and  is  the  first  of  the  series  of  dialects  which  break  up  that  rich  and 
fertile  language.  But  it.  appears  that  the  Pali,  which  contained  in 
itself  the  germs  of  alteration  already 'greatly  developed,  was  arrested 
in  its  progress  all  at  once,  and  fixed  in  the  condition  in  which  we  now 
find  it,  i.e.,  in  a  state  of  almost  immediate  connexion  with  the  lan- 
guage from  which  it  proceeded.  In  fact  the  greater  part  of  the 
words  which  form  the  basis  of  the  one,  are  found  without  modification 
in  the  other;  those  which  are  modified  can  all  be  traced  to  their 
Sanskrit  root;  in  short,  no  words  of  foreign  origin  are  to  be  found 
in  Pali." 

Again : — 

"  We  shall  not  enter  into  new  details  regarding  the  manner  in  which 
the  Pali  has  been  derived  from  the  Sanskrit.  The  laws  which  have 
guided  the  formation  of  that  language  are  the  same  which  we  find  at 
work  in  other  idioms  in  difierent  ages  and  countries ;  these  laws  are 
general,  because  they  are  necessary.    Whether  we  compare  the  Ian- 


ON  THE  EELATION  OF  PALI  TO  SANSKRIT.  69 

guages  whicli  are  derived  from  Latin  with  the  Latin  itself,  or  the 
later  Teutonic  dialects  with  the  ancient  languages  of  the  same  stock, 
or  the  modem  with  the  ancient  Greek,  or  the  numerous  popular 
dialects  of  India  with  the  Sanskrit,  we  shall  see  the  same  principles 
developed,  the  same  laws  applied.  The  organic  inflections  of  the 
parent  languages  are  seen  to  exist  in  part,  but  in  a  state  of  evident 
alteration.  More  commonly  they  wiU  be  found  to  have  disappeared, 
and  to  have  been  replaced,  the  case-terminations  by  particles,  and  the 
tenses  by  auxiliary  verbs.  The  processes  vary  in  different  languages, 
but  the  principle  is  the  same;  it  is  always  analytic,  whether  the 
reason  of  this  be  that  a  synthetic  language  happens  all  at  once  to 
become  the  speech  of  barbarians  who  do  not  understand  its  structure, 
and  therefore  suppress  its  inflections,  and  replace  them  by  other  signs ; 
or  whether  it  be  that  when  abandoned  to  its  natural  course,  and  as  a 
necessity  of  its  cultivation,  it  tends  to  decompose  and  to  subdivide  the 
representative  signs  of  ideas  and  relations,  just  as  it  unceasingly  de- 
composes and  subdivides  the  ideas  and  the  relations  themselves.  The 
Pali  appears  to  have  undergone  this  last  sort  of  alteration;  it  is 
Sanskrit,  not  such  as  it  would  be  spoken  by  a  strange  population,  to 
whom  it  would  be  new;  but  pure  Sanskrit,  becoming  altered  and 
modified  in  proportion  as  it  becomes  popular.  In  this  manner  it  still 
preserves  its  declension,  instead  of  replacing  it  by  particles,  as  the 
modem  dialects  of  India  do.  One  form  only,  the  ablative  in  to  might 
pass  for  the  commencement  of  the  analytic  declension ;  but  it  is  already 
found  in  the  parent  language.  A  great  number  of  Pali  forms  might 
be  cited  to  prove  that  the  modifications,  which  it  has  made  in  the 
Sanskrit,  are  of  the  same  kind  as  those  which  the  Italian,  among 
other  tongues,  has  made  in  the  Latin.  Thus  the  assimilation  of  con- 
sonants, which  in  Italian  makes  letto  from  leetm,  and  scriito  for  scrip- 
tus,  is  one  of  the  principles  of  Pali." 

The  Pali,  in  the  precise  form  in  which  we  find  it  in  the  Ceylonese 
books,  could  scarcely  have  been  a  vernacular  language.  At  least,  it 
exhibits  a  variety  of  refinements  which  could  hardly  have  been  em- 
ployed in  common  speech ;  but  seem  likely  to  have  been  confined  to 
the  language  of  composition,  or  introduced  after  the  Pali  had  ceased  to 
be  the  spoken  tongue  of  the  followers  of  Buddha,  and  had  become 
consecrated  to  the  service  of  religion  and  literature :  just  as  the  gram- 


70     EUPHONIC  LETTEES  INSERTED  BETWEEN  PALI  WORDS. 

mar  of  tte  Sanskrit  itself  became  regulated  by  more  fixed  and  rigid 
rules,  after  it  liad  been  removed  from  the  deteriorating  influences  of 
vernacular  use.  Such  a  peculiarity  is  the  use  of  interpolated,  or  the 
retention  of  otherwise  disused,  consonants  to  obviate  the  inharmonious 
sounds  which  would  arise  from  the  collision  of  vowels.  No  less  than 
nine  letters,  y,  v,  m,  d,  n,  t,  r,  1,  and  g,  are  employed  for  this  purpose, 
as  is  shown  in  the  following  examples,  viz. : 


1.    y  —  na         +  imassa     becomes    naj/imaasa. 

.2.    v  —  ti          +  angikam 

„         iiiiangikam. 

3.    m —  lahu      +  essati 

„         lalmmesBati. 

i.    d  —  atta       +  attham 

„          attarfattbam. 

5.    «  —  ito         +  .ayati 

„         itowayati. 

6.    t  —  tasma    +  iha 

„          tasmariba. 

7.    r  —  sabbhi   +  eva 

„          sabbbireva. 

•8.    I  —  cha        +  alihinaa 

„          cba2abbinna. 

S.    g  —  putha    +  eva 

„          putha^eva.ii" 

This  peculiarity  of  attention  to  eupl 

lony  is  common  to  the  Pali  with 

the  Sanskrit;   and  though  the  means 

they  use  are  for  the  most  part 

109  Clougb's  Pali  Grammar,  p.  11.  On  tbis  subject  I  translate  tbe  foUoTring  re- 
marks made  by  Dr.  Kubn  in  a  review  of  the  first  edition  .of  this  volume,  in  his 
Beitrage  zur  Vergleichenden  Sprachforschung  u.s.w.  vol.  iii.  p.  241,  £ ;  "As regards 
the  interpolation  of  euphonic  letters  treated  of  in  p.  82, 1  cannot  entirely  agree  with 
the  author  T^hen  he  claims  them  for  the  written  language  alone :  the  greater  part  of 
them  show  that  they  are  by  no  means  what  are  called  interpolations,  but  the  old 
auslaut"  (i.e.  concluding  consonant)  "which  the  preceding  words  had  in  an  earlier 
stage  of  the  language.  I  have  briefly  treated  of  them  in  the  first  volume  of  these 
Beitrage,  p.  126,  and  here  only  repeat  that  I  now  regard  only  the  y  and  the  v  in 
na-y-imasea,  and  ti-v-angikam  as  real  euphonic  interpolations ;  and  that  I  look  upon 
the  latter  as  having  proceeded  &om  y."  I  subjoin  a  translation  of  the  remarks 
referred  to  by  the  writer  as  having  been  previously  made  by  him  in  the  1st  vol.  of  the 
Beitrage,  p.  126 : — "  A  comparison  with  the  Sanskrit  shows  that  only  a  few  of  those 
apparently  interpolated  consonants  are  due  .to  an  actual  interpolation,  as  the  others 
are  remains  of  an  earlier  condition  of  the  language.  The  PaU  has  almost  entirely 
rejected  the  final  mutes,  and  the  few  cases  in  which  such  are  found  are  to  be  regarded 
as  exceptions.  When  for  instance  etad  eva  is  found  in  place  6f  the  ordinary  Mam  eva, 
this  is  an  archaism  which  Lassen  rightly  explains  by  the  close  juxtaposition  at  the 
following  eva  to  the  preceding  etad.  In  the  same  way  we  are  to  explain  tasmat  iha 
from  the  Sanskrit  tasmad  iha,  sabbhir  eva  from  sadbhir  eva,  chhalabhinmi  &om 
shalabhijnas,  which  as  a  technical  designation  preserved  the  old  form  .(see  Tnrnour, 
Mahavanso,  p.  31,  1,  and  elsewhere),  puthageva  from  prithag  eva,  prageva  immprag 
eva.  Of  the  remaining  instances  nai/imasm,  tivangikam,  and  itonaj/ati  are  indeed 
to  be  regarded  as  cases  of  consonantal  interpolation,  whilst  lahum  essati  and 
attadattham  may  still  xemain  doubtful.  Clough  further  states,  in  p.  14,  that  fii  is 
sometimes  introduced  as  an  augment  before  both  vowels  and  consonants ;  that  thus 
chdkhhvm  anichcham  (Sanskrit  chakshw  am,ityam)  stands  for  ehahhhu  anichcham, 
avamsiro  for  ava  siro  ',  but  in  the  first  case,  as  in  that  of  lahttm  essati,  perhaps  another 


Missing  Page 


Missing  Page 


COMPAEISON  OF  PAII  AND  PEAKRIT  DECLENSIONS. 


73 


centuries  b.c.  Such  being  the  case,  we  should  naturally  expect  to 
find  that  it  bears  a  stiong  resemblance  to  the  Prakrit  dialects ;  which, 
as  we  have  already  seen  (in  the  preceding  section)  were  either 
spoken,  or  closely  resembled  dialects  which  were  spoken,  in  the 
same  provinces  in  the  first  centuries  of  the  Christian  era.  That  such 
was  actually  the  case,  is  put  beyond  a  doubt  by  a  comparison  of  these 
dialects  with  the  Pali.  I  shall  immediately  proceed  to  prove,  by  some 
comparative  lists  of  nouns,  pronouns,  verbs,  and  particles,  first,  that  an 
extensive  class  of  Sanskrit  words  undergoes  precisely  the  same  modifi- 
cations in  the  Pali  as  in  the  Prakrit;  and  secondly,  that  in  some 
respects  the  modification  of  Sanskrit  words  and  forms  of  inflection  had 
not  proceeded  so  far  in  Pali  as  it  afterwards  did  in  Prakrit.  From 
-this  comparison  it  wUl  result  that  the  Pali  stands  nearer  to  the 
Sanskrit,  and  represents  a  more  ancient  phase  of  the  vernacular 
speech  of  Northern  India  than  is  exhibited  in  the  Prakrit. 

The  following  is  a  comparative  scheme  of  the  declension  correspond- 
ing to  the  Sanskrit  one  in  &,  in  which  it  wUl  be  seen  that  the  Pali  is 
somewhat  nearer  than  the  Prakrit  to  the  Sanskrit  forms.  (Clough, 
p.  19 ;  CoweU,  p.  xxiv.) 


Singular. 


Plv/ral. 


PALI. 

prakb.it. 

PALI. 

PRAKRIT. 

1. 

Buddho. 

Buddho. 

1. 

Buddha. 

Buddha. 

2. 

Buddham. 

Buddhatn. 

2. 

Buddhe. 

Buddhe. 
Buddha. 

3. 

Buddhena. 

Buddhena. 

3. 

Buddhehi. 
Buddhebhi. 

Buddhehi. 

4. 

Buddhaya. 
Buddhassa. 

Same  as  6th  case. 

4. 

Buddhanam. 

Same  as  6th  case. 

5. 

Buddhasma. 

Buddhado. 

6. 

Buddhehi. 

Buddhahiato. 

Buddha. 

Buddha. 

Buddhebhi. 

Buddhasunto. 

Buddhamha. 

Buddhahi. 

6. 

Buddhassa. 

Buddhassa. 

6. 

Buddhanam. 

Buddhanam. 

7. 

Buddhasmin. 

Buddhe. 

Buddhamhi. 

Buddhe. 
Buddhammi. 

7. 

Buddhesu, 

Buddhesu. 

The  first  personal  pronoun  in  the  two  languages  is  as  follows: 
(Clough,  p.  61 ;  Cowell,  p.  xxviii.).— In  most  cases  the  Pali  is  nearest 
to  the  Sanskrit. 


74  COMPARISON  OP  PALI  AND  PRAKRIT  CONJUGATIONS. 


Singular. 


Plural, 


PALI, 

PKAKRIT. 

PAI.I. 

PRAKRIT. 

1. 

aham. 

aham. 

1.  mayam. 
amhe. 

vaam. 

amhe. 

2. 

mam. 

mam. 

2.  amhakam. 

no. 

mamam. 

mamam. 

amhe. 

amhe. 

3. 

maya. 

me. 
mae. 

3.  amhehhi. 
amhehi. 

amhehin. 

4. 
,6. 

mama. 

mayham. 

amham. 

me. 
mama. 

4  ) 

c   amhakam. 

6.) 

amhanam. 

marjh. 
maha. 

mamam. 

5. 

maya. 

matto. 

6.  amhehhi. 
amhehi. 

amhshinto. 
amhasunto. 

7. 

mayi. 

mayi. 
mamammi. 

7.  amhesu. 

amhesu. 

The  second  personal  pronoun,  as  it  appears  in  both  dialects  will 
be  given  in  a  following  Table. 

The  Pali  verb  seems  to  be  far  more  complete  than  the  Patrit.  The 
following  are  some  of  its  principal  tenses,  as  compared  with  those  of 
the  latter:  (Clough,  p.  100,  £f. ;  CoweU,  p.  xxix.) 


PALI.  PRAKRIT, 

Farasmai-pada,  or  active  mood. 


PALI.  PRAKRIT. 

Atmane-pada,  or  middle-mood. 


1.  pachami. 

2.  pachasi. 

3.  pachati. 


Tlural. 
1.  pachama. 


pachami. 
pachami. 
pachasi. 


lai. 

Flural. 

pachamo. 
pachimo,  etc. 
pachaha. 
pachittha. 


1.  pache. 

2.  pachase. 

3.  pachate. 


Plwral. 


1. 
2. 
3.  pachante. 


(wanting.) 

2.  pachase. 

3.  pachade. 
pachae. 

Flural, 
(wanting.) 

ditto. 

ditto. 


2.  pachatha. 

3.  pachanti. 

The  Pali  has  also,  like  the  Sanskrit,  a  potential  mood,  and  three 
past  -tenses,  which  in  the  parasmai-pada  or  active  mood,  are  as  follows : 

Singular,  Flural, 

1.  Potential, 

1.  pacheyyami,  1,  pacheyyama. 

2.  paoheyyasi.  2.  pacheyyatha. 

3.  pache.  3,  pacheyyum, 
pacheyya, 

III,  Imperfect, 

1,  apacha.  1.  apachamha. 

2.  apacho.  2.  apachattha, 
3.  apachfi. 


Flural, 
II.  Reduplicated  perfect. 

1.  papacha.  1.  papachimha. 

2.  papache.  2.  papachittha. 

3.  papacha.  3.  papachu. 

•     IV.  Third  preterite. 

1.  apachim.  I.  apachimha. 

2.  apacho.  2.  apachittha. 

3.  apachi.  3.  apachum, 
apachimsu. 


FEW  TEACES  OF  PAST  TENSES  IN  PEAKRIT.       75 

In  Prakrit,  on  the  otter  hand,  few  traces  appear  to  remain  of  any- 
past  tenses  at  all.  Mr.  Cowell  says,  p.  xxiz,  "  The  only  tenses  of  the 
active  voice  ■vrhich  remain  seem  to  he  the  present,  the  second  fature, 
and  the  imperative."  In  the  23rd,  24th,  and  25th  aphorisms  of 
Chapter  YII.,  and  in  the  17th  aphorism  of  Chapter  VIII.  of  Vararuchi, 
however  (Cowell,  pp.  162,  163),  mention  is  made  of  a^  past  tense,  of 
which  the  instances,  httvia,  hohla,  dsi,^"  'he  was,'  haala,  'he  laughed,' 
hahia,  '  he  did,'  are  given.  Few  instances  of  the  past  tense  in  Prakrit, 
however,  seem  to  occur  in  the  dramas ;  but  it  is  inconceivable  that  in 
the  Prakrit  dialects  which  were  currently  spoken  in  the  long  interval 
between  the  disuse  of  the  Pali  and  the  rise  of  the  modem  vernaculars 
(in  both  of  which  we  find  past  tenses),  there  should  have  been  no 
grammatical  forms  in  daily  use  for  expressing  past  time.  It  is  not, 
however,  necessary  to  pursue  this  subject  further :  as  the  details  and 
explanations  which  I  have  already  furnished,  together  with  the  tables 
which  foUow,  are  amply  sufScient  to  show  the  place  which  the  Pali 
and  the  Prakrit  dialects  respectively  occupied  in  the  history  of  North- 
Indian  speech."^ 

•"  The  form  5«a,  "was,"  occurs  in  Hala's  Sapta&taka  128,  ^.  114,  of  Weljer's 
edition. 

"3  The  following  note  in  p.  107  of  the  first  edition  shoTild  hare  been  placed  in 
p.  55  of  the  present  edition,  as  an  addition  to  note  101. 

[Professor  Miiller  considers  the  data  — derived  from  Buddhist  sources — on  which 
the  death  of  Buddha  is  placed  in  543  B.C.,  and  on  which  the  occurrence  of  any 
Buddhist  synods  hefore  the  one  in  Ae^oka's  time,  is  asserted,  to  be  fictitious  and  un- 
satisfactory. Though  he  does  not  try  to  bring  down  Buddha's  death  below  477  B.C., 
he  regards  all  the  Buddhist  dates  before  Chandragupta  as  merely  hypothetical.  See 
his  "  Ancient  Sanskrit  Literature,"  receiTed  while  this  Section  was  in  the  press, 
pp.  260-300.] 


76 


COMPAEATIVE  TABLE 


Table  No.  III. 

'Containing  a  List  of  words  which  are  identical,  or  nearly  so,  in  Pali  and 

Prakrit. 
[The  authorities  for  the  Pali  words  in  these  Lists  are  the  Dhammapada,  a  Pali  work 
edited  by  Fausboll,  the  Pali  Gframmar  of  the  Eev.  B.  Clough  (Ceylon,  1824),  Bumouf 
and  Lassen's  Essai  sur  le  PaH,  Spiegel's  Kammavakya,  and  Anecdota  Palica,  containing 
the  Easavahim,  etc.,  and  Tumour's  Mahawanso  (Ceylon,  1837).  The  authorities  for  the 
Prakrit  words  are  partly  given  in  the  previous  List,  No.  I.,  p.  15,  ff.  In  the  present 
edition  the  lists  have  heen  greatly  enlarged,  and  parallel  words  &onl  the  Gatha  dialect 
in  the  Lalita  Vistara  (Lv.)  are  occasionally  introduced.  The  Pali  column  has  had  the 
advantage  of  being  revised  by  Mr.  Childers,  and  the  additional  Prakrit  words  are  taken 
from  the  Balaramayana  (Br.)  the  Prasannaraghava  (Pr.),  and  the  Saptarfalaka  (S^.)  A 
good  many  Prakpt  words,  for  which  no  Pali  equivalents  have  been  found,  are  left  in  the 
list ;  as  they  wiU  at  least  show  the  mutations  which  the  Sanskrit  undergoes  in  the  former 
dialect,] 


BEPEKENCES. 

SANBKEIT. 

GATHA." 

VJiLI. 

FKAEKIT. 

ENGLISH. 

Dham.  43. 

\ 

/  iatri,         \ 

Clough,  15. 
Mricnh.  44. 

stri 

iatri,         1 
)  iatrvya,      ( 

ittht             \ 
itthi 

itthi,  iithiya 

a  woman. 

Var.  xii.  22. 

, 

\  istrika      ) 

Clough  39.    \ 
Var.  iii.  10.  / 

drishti 

ditthi 

ditthi 

sight. 

Balarama-     ) 
yana,  215.  / 

driahta 

dittha 

dida 

seen. 

Br.  210.        \ 
Clough,  39.  / 
Br.?3. 

vrishti 

mtthi 

vitthi 

rain. 

srishti 

aatthi 

aiahtht 

discharge. 

puththi, 

■ 

Br.  238,245, ) 

(pitthi        , 
\pittha 

puththa. 

248,  267,     } 

prishtha 

pithiha. 

■the  back. 

287.  Pr.  44. ) 

vatktha, 

vatta,  mtha 

Br.l78.  Pr.41. 

mishta 

imiththa, 
(mitthi 

sweet  (fern.) 

Dham.  5. 

iriahtha 

aettha 

aettha 

best. 

Br.  79,  113,  \ 
144.  CI.  37.  J 

jyeshtha 

jettha 

jettha,  Jeththa 

eldest. 

Br.  113,  223,1 
226.              / 

Jccmiahtha 

imittha     1 

ianitta, 

kmittka, 

kaniththa 

>  youngest. 

Br.  6,122,226. 

varishtha 

variththa 

best. 

Clough,  39.  \ 
Var.  iii.  10.  / 

tmhti 

tutthi 

tutthi 

satisfaction. 

Br.  224. 

gariahtha 

gariththa 

heaviest. 

Clough,  27. 

mmhtl 

mutthi 

mutthi 

the  fist. 

Br.  56,  194,  f. 

dushta 

duiiha 

duththa 

wicked. 

Br.  270. 

dashta 

dattha 

daththa 

bitten. 

Br.  34. 

nwiaA(a 

nivittha 

niviththa 

Centered, 
\  placed, 
instructed. 

B.&Las.l66. 

aiahtah 

aittho 

aittho 

Br.  6. 

diahtya 

dittha 

diththia 

by  good  luck. 

Pr.  20. 

pravMta 

pmittha 

paviththa 

entered. 

OF  PALI  AND  PBJtKRIT  "WOEDS. 


77 


BEFEKENCEB. 

8ANSKK.IT. 

GATHA. 

Pill. 

PKAKBIT.      1 

ENGLISH. 

Br.  86. 

smhtha 

autthtt 

auththu 

weU. 

Br.  203,  270. 

nishthwa 

niUhwra 

niththttra 

severe. 

Br.  179,  242,\ 
294.                / 

goahtht 

goththt 

assembly. 

Br.  270,  278.\ 
Clongh,  2.     / 
Br.  259,  270. 

oththa 

ottha 

oththa 

Up. 

damihtra 

datha 

dadhS 

tusk. 

Mricli.  18,  30. 

Imahthtt 

haitha 

kaitha 

wood. 

Dham.  3.  50. 

vriiaham 

rukkham 

rukkham, 
ukkham 

tree. 

Pr.   84.  Br.\ 
165,  219.       j 

vrittanta 

vuttmta 

vuttanta 

intelligence. 

Pr.ll4f,125.) 
Br.  216.        j 

vrittSnta 

uttanta 

intelligence. 

Pr.  84,  Br.  \ 
63, 66.          j 
Pr.  303. 

samvritta 

aaimatta 

aamvutta 

happened. 

nieritta 

nivatttt 

nivutta 

ceased. 

Pr.  44. 

vrishabha 

uaabha 

vuaaha 

bull. 

Pr.  91. 

trina 

Una 

tuna 

grass. 

Mriehh.  3,126. 

ghrita 

ghata 

ghia 

ghee. 

I  shall  ask. 

Pr.  19. 

prakahyami 

pmehiaaami 

putaisaam 

Var.i.29.  Lass. 

) 

293.  Vikr.  45. 

>  pravriah 

paeusa 

patiaa 

rainy  season. 

Ss'.  ind.  244. 

) 

I 

vuddha 

buddha 

) 

Br.  157,  163. 

vfiddha 

vuddha 

viddha 

5  old. 

Var.  i,  27. 

( 

buddha 

vaddha 

) 

Dham.  52.    \ 
Var.  i.  27.     / 

amriti 

aati 

.    .    . 

recollection. 

Mrich.  94  f. 

mrittiha 

mattika 

mattia 

earth. 

Br.  131. 

ritu 

utu 

ridte 

season. 

Br.  199. 

hritanta 

kayanta 

fate. 

MricTi.  14,  95, 

griha 

116,  141,  Var. 

(gaha 
Xghara 

ghala,  ghara 

house. 

It.  32.  Br.  178, 

giha,  haraa 

164  f. 

Pr.  303. 

grihint 

gharanl 

gharinJ 

■wife. 

Pr.  33,  35,  \ 
38,  41. 
Dham.  13. 

grihinliva 

gharinittana 

|state  of  a 
\  wife. 

griht 

giht 

giha  (house) 

householder. 

Dham  46. 

artham 

attham 

attham 

meaning. 

Dham.  47. 

aarva 

aahha 

aabba,  aamva 

all. 

Dham.  1. 

puma 

pubba 

pubba,  puma 

first. 

Br.  169,  231,\ 
238.              1 
Br.  168, 235,  \ 
262,  270.      i 

a'Traha 

siaa 

aJaa 

head. 

cCirgha 

digha 

dtha 

long. 

Br.  126, 198,\ 
267, 293.      J 

rmrga 

magga 

magga 

road. 

Br.  7,  36,  70. 

(sarga, 
(nisarga 

aagga 
niaagga 

(aagga 
\niaagga 

section, 
nature. 

Dham.  23. 

avarga 

aagga 

aagga 

heaven. 

Br.  10.  CI.  2. 

varga 

vagga 

vagga 

class. 

Br.  199. 

dwrga 

dugga 

dugga 

inaccessible. 

Br.  293. 

nirgama 

niggama 

niggama 

|going  out 
(  (noun). 

78 


COMPARATIVE  TABLE 


REFERENCES. 

SANSKRIT. 

QATHA. 

PALT. 

PBAKHIT. 

ENGLISH. 

Br.  56,  76,  J 

178,  276. 
Pr.  134.        ) 

garhha 

gabhha 

gabbha        \ 
gabhbha       j 

womb. 

Pr.  34. 

nirghoaha 

nigghosa 

nighghoaa 

sound. 

Pr.  33.  Br.  69, 
87,  198.  288. 

Sardha 

addha,  addha 

addha 

half. 

Pr.48.  Br.267, 

) 

298.  Bur.  and 

\  dharma 

dhoMfffia 

dhimnma 

righteousness 

Lass.  166. 

) 

Br.  94. 

karma 

komma 

kamma 

work. 

Dham.  43. 

karmaMra 
charmakara 

kammakara 

kammara 

ehammahara 

\  chammara 

(hlacksmith ; 
(leather  cutter 

Br.  64,  72,  94. 

nirmana 

nimmana 

ntMinana 

construction. 

Br.  7. 

(eharmachak'- 
\  shuh 

ehammacha- 
kkhu          ] 

leather-eyed. 

Br.  246. 

kurma 

kirnima 

kumma 

tortoise. 

Pr.  126. 

avaUrna 

otinrta 

avaftnna 

descended. 

Br.  200. 

utflrna 

uttinna 

utfirm 

crossed. 

Pr.  46,  48. 

tcKrkayami 

takkemi 

takkemi 

I  reason. 

Pr.  12, 48.     \ 
Br.  238,  245.J 

karna 

kanna 

kamna 

ear. 

Br.  200. 

sampurna 

sampunna 

sampunna 

full. 

Br.  298. 

parna 

panna 

panna 

feather. 

Br.  264. 

Tamrc^arni 

Tambapanni 

Tambavannt 

Ceylon. 

Br.  142,  198. 
Bur.&Ls.  166. 

\varna 

vanna 

vanna 

colour. 

Br.  291. 

simarna 

fstwanna,      \ 
\sonna'         j 

imanna 

gold. 

Br. 

vdglrm 

tidginna 

vomited. 

Br.  240,  243. 

kirna, 

kinna 

kinna 

crowded. 

Br.  147,  200,\ 
278.               j 

churna 

chunna 

chunna 

crashed. 

Br.  267. 

nirvana 

nibbana 

nimuna 

extinction. 

Br.  209,  289,  \ 
307.               1 
Br.  198, 278. 

ktrtti 

kitti 

Mtti 

renown. 

marttanda 

mattanda 

the  sun. 

Br.  129, 198,  \ 
287.              ]■ 

nirmghna 

nibbigga      \ 

nimiggha    \ 

nivvighgha  > 

nivmggkgha ) 

/without  oh- 
\  stacles. 

Br.  241. 

nirjhara 

nijjhara 

nijjhara 

a  cascade. 

Br.  154. 

nirvahana 

nibbahana 

nivvahana 

effecting. 

Br.  153  ff. 

duryaidh 

dujjasa 

bad  repute. 

Br.  86,  179. 

darpa 

dappa 

dappa 

pride. 

Br.  216. 

itpasarpamah 

vpasappiama 

twasappamha 

we  approach. 

Br.  5, 179. 

kandarpa 

kandappa 

(the  god  of 
\  love. 

Br.  129,  194. 

datpana 

dappana 

dappana 

a  mirror. 

Br.  142,  178. 

karpura 

kappura 

kappura 

camphor. 

Br.  221. 

karpasa 

kappasa 

kappasa 

cotton. 

Br.  218. 

paraspara 

paroppa/ra 

mutual. 

Br.  239. 

kurpara 

kappara 

kvppara 

elbow,  knee. 

Br.  236. 

karkara 

kakkara 

limestone. 

Br.  239. 

s'arkara 

sakkliara  ■ 

sakkara 

gravel, 
date  tree. 

S'ak.  26. 

kharjura 

khagjuri 

khajjura 

Br.  240. 

kardama 

kaddama 

kaddama 

mud. 

OF  PALI  AND  PRAKRIT  "WORDS. 


79 


BEFEKENCES. 

SANSKRIT. 

OATH  A. 

PALI. 

PEAKMT. 

ENGLISH. 

Br.  243. 

paryasta 

pallattha 

pallattha 

throTm  down 

Br.  203. 

nirlUna 

nilluna 

cut. 

Pr.144.Br.62. 
Pr.  16,  48.     \ 
Dham.  56.     / 

durlabha 
tamarpita 

dullabha 
samappifa 

dtdlaha 
aamappida 

difficult  to 
;  obtain, 
entrusted. 

Br.  178. 

muhurta 

muhutta 

muhutta 

moment. 

Br.  136,  215. 

varta 

vatta 

mtta 

intelligence, 
a  band  of 
travellers. 

Br.  242;  266,\ 
147.              1 

sartha 

sattha 

sattha 

Br.  198. 

tlrtha 

tittha 

tittha 

■place  of  phil- 
grimage. 

iriction. 

Br.  234. 

sammarda 

aammadda 

Br.  265,  267. 

vimarda 

vimadda 

Br.  181,  194. 

pmrvata 

paiiata 

paxvada 

mountain. 

Br.  179. 

Parvatt 

Pablafi 

Fabhadi 

ParvatT. 

Br.  113,  Pr.\ 
114,  137.      / 

art/a 

mriya,  ayya 

ajja 

(respectable 
\  person, 
cleansed. 

Br.  94. 

sammarj'ita 

aammajjita 

aamajjida 

Br.  209. 

garjita 

gajjita 

gajjida 

thundered. 

CI.  19.  Br.  73. 

Chandra 

chamda 

ehanda 

moon. 

Br.36,130f,  ^ 

148,  299.      } 

granthi 

ganthi 

ganthi 

a  knot. 

Clongh,  27. ) 

Br.  113,  144, 
223.    Mrichh. 
72.  Var.  T.  35. 

I  hhratai       V 
1  hhmtuh     ] 

bkata 

bhada,  bhaa, 
bhaduno 

1  brother  (nom. 
)  and  gen.). 

Br.  238. 

graha 

gaha 

gaha 

taking. 

Br.  308. 

iighra 

aigha 

aiggha 

quickly. 

Br.  149. 

yatra 

yatra 

jatta 

journey. 

Br.  34,  62. 

ehitra 

chitta,  ehitra 

chitta 

variegated. 

Br.  8,  53,  69,\ 
86,  98,  267.  j 
Br.  86. 

gotra 
kahurapra 

gotta 
khurappS 

gotta 
khwrappa 

family,  clan, 
fa  kind  of 
\  arrow. 

Pr.  122. 

6?uidra 

(bhadda, 
[bhadra 

bhadda 

good. 

Br.  145, 198. 

tatkala 

takkala 

takkala 

that  time. 

Br.  86,  98.     \ 
Pr.  10,  21. 
Br.  121. 

aahasra 

aahasaa 

aahasaa 

a  thousand. 

vaktra 

vatta 

vakka 

month. 

Pr.  140. 

vakra 

vanka 

vakka 

crooked. 

Pr.14. 

chakra 

ehakka 

ehakka 

wheel. 

Br.  20, 120, ) 
198,  245.      ] 
Pr.  16.         ) 

chakravartti 

cakkavatti 

(ehakkavatti ' 
[chakka/oatti 

emperor. 

Br.  198.        \ 
Dham.  59. 

srotaa 

aota 

aota,  aotta 

stream. 

Br.  6,  71,  293. 
CI.  52.  Bur.  & 
Las.  165. 

)  patra 
1  patra 

patta 

patta 

leaf,  vessel. 

Br.  132. 

samagrl 

aamaggi 

samagg 

implements. 

Br.  87,  243.  \ 
B.  &  Las.  85. 

ratra,  ratri 

ratta,  ratti 

ratta,  ranti 

night. 

Br.  67,  75. 

netra 

netta 

netta 

eye. 

B.&Las.91. 
Br.  24,  247. 

mitra 

mitta 

mitta 

friend. 

80 


COMPAEATIVE  TABLE 


BEPBKENOES. 

BANSKRIT. 

GAIHA. 

FALL 

PKAKRIT. 

ENGLISH. 

Br.  36,  65,  76. 

matra 

matta 

m£tta 

measure. 

Br.  270. 

hhrukutt 

bhiudt 

frown. 

Br.  71,  182. 

bhru 

bhu 

bhu' 

eyebrow. 

Br.  209. 

mantra 

mania 

manta 

advice. 

Br.  221. 

ymtra 

yanta 

yantra 

an  engine. 

Br.  20. 

abhra 

abhha 

abhbha 

cloud. 

Br.  221,  267. 

sutra 

sutta 

sutta 

thread. 

Pr.21.  Br.166, 

putra 

167, 174, 297. 

putta 

putta 

son.- 

Pr.  65. 

jagrat 

jagarmn 

jagganta 

waking. 

Pr.  45. 

pragtmnaBya 

pahimaasa 

pahimasaa 

guest  (gen. 
a  tear,  [sing.) 

Br.  166,  279. 

aim 

asm 

asu 

Br.  26.  CI.  51. 

vyighrasya 

vyagghasaa 

vaghghassa 

tiger  (gen.  s.) 

Br.  267. 

irodha 

kodha 

kodha 

anger. 

Br.  113,  126. 

vikrama 

vikkama 

vikkama 

valour. 

Br.  67,88,113. 

parakrama 

parahkama 

parakkamma 
parakkama 

valour. 

Br.  56,  113. 

vithrama 

vibbhama 

vibbhama 

flurry. 

B.&Las.  166. 

nigraha 

niggaha 

niggaha 

control. 

Br.  64. 

pariirama 

parissama 

pa/riasama 

toil. 

Br.21,113,276 

mis'ra 

missa 

missa 

mixed. 

Br.  278. 

visrama 

masama 

viaaama 

rest. 

Br.  94. 

grama 

gama 

gama 

village. 

Br.279.Dli.44. 

prana 

pana 

pana 

life. 

Br.  294. 

adri 

addi 

addi 

a  mountain. 

Br.  189,  202,\ 
237,  290.       ] 
Br.  220,  223,\ 
267.               / 

samudra 

samudda 

aamudda 

the  ocean. 

nidra 

nidda 

nidda 

sleep. 

Br.  166. 

daridra 

dalidda 

idaridda, 
dalidda 

poor. 

Br.  297. 

Budra 

Rndda 

Sudda 

Eudra. 

Br.  142. 

mudra 

mudda 

mudda 

a  seal. 

Dham  24.      \ 
Var.  iii.  3.     / 

priyam 

piyam 

dear. 

Br.  48.   Pr. ) 

(aggi 
\aggini,  gini 

aggi 

13,46,  119.  } 
Clough,  26. ) 

agni 

fire. 

Br.  218. 

bndhma 

buddha 

bottom. 

Dham.  26.     \ 
Var.  iii.  2.     j 

nagna 

nagga 

ruigga 

naked. 

Br.  82,126,130 

bhagna 

bhagga 

bhagga 

broken. 

Br.  137. 
Br.  293. 

mjnana 
jnana 

mnnana 
nana 

vinndna 
jana 

Jknowledge. 

Br.  227. 

ajna 

anOf  aiina 

anrm 

command. 

Br.168,176.  \ 
S^.  ind.  265. 

mmha 

sunisa,  sunha 

fauna,  auaa 
\  Bonha 

idaughter-in- 
/  law. 

Br.  281. 

patmnam 

patamnam 

padinam 

of  wives. 

B.&Las.  166. 

jnatam 

natam 

natam 

known. 

Br.  36,80, 146. 

karya 

kariya 

lajja 

work. 

Bur.  58, 167.) 
Pr.  46. 

rSjya 

rajja 

rajja 

kingdom. 

Dh.  44,  CI.  10. 

\vidya, 
javidya 

vijja, 

vijja 

knowledge. 

Br.  86,  202. 

aoijja 

avijja 

ignorance. 

Dham.  62. 

madhya 

majjka 

mAljjha 

middle. 

OF  PALI  AND  PRAKRIT  WORDS. 


81 


-    • 
KEPERENCBS. 

.  SANSKRIT. 

QATHA. 

PALI. 

PRAKRIT. 

ENGLISH:. 

Dham.  33. 

dhydnam 

JhaniMn 

jKmam 

contemplation 

Br.  262,  264.  \ 
Pr.  137.        / 

vidyadhara 

vijjahara 

a  sort  of  deity. 

MaliaT.182.  ) 

Br.  60.  Lv.  } 

vidyut 

vidya 

vijju,  vijjuta 

vijju,  vijjuU 

lightning. 

204.                ) 
Br.  136. 
Br.131,269.  \ 

vaidyatva 

vejjatta 

v^jattana. 

profession  of 
a  physician. 

Pr.  32,   55, 
114,134,144  ( 

adya 

ajja 

<VJa 

to-day. 

Dham.  58.    ) 

Br.125.Pr.32. 

udyana, 

wjyana 

ujjana 

a  garden. 

Br.  147,  262. 

nirmadya 

nircmajja 

niravajja 

blameless, 

Br.  147.        1 

vadyat         \ 

vddyamana  j 

udhMdyanidna 

vajjamana 
uhbhijjamana 

vajjamta 
ubhhijjanta 

sounding, 
being  split. 

V  nihadhyamana 

nibajjhamana 

nivajhjhoMta 

being  stopped 

^l\%]''']  ^^^^y^ 

Vinjha 

Vinjha 

fVindhya 
(  monntains. 

Olough,  37. 

handhya 

vanjha 

vanjha  ^^^ 

(barren 
(  woman. 

Br.  226. 

handhylbhuta 

vanjhjKihhuda 

(become 
\  barren. 

Br.  246. 

adhymasya 

ajhjhmasia 

having  striven 

Br.  144.  150. 

Ayodhya 

Aojjha 

Ayodhya. 

Br.  135. 

sandhya 

sanjha 

sanjha 

evening. 

Kara.  3.  Var. 
ii.  viii.  25,  etc. 
Br  186  ff. 

>  wpadhyaya 

upajjhaya 
upajjha 

uvajjhaa 
uajjhaa,  ojhaa 

^religious 
j  teacher. 

Br.  69. 

mdhyayantt 

nijjhaanti 

meditating. 

Br.  121. 

aparadhyati 

aparajjhati 

aparajjhdi 

he  offends. 

Br.  20,  105. 

sadhvaaa 

aajjhasa 

fear. 

Br.  168, 180,\ 
216  f.             ] 

yuddha 

yujjha 

jujjha, 

battle. 

Br.  106. 

yujyate 

yuj/ati 

juijadi 

it  is  proper. 

Br. 

pratyusha 

pachohuaa 

pachchusa 

morning. 

Br.  71. 

panditya 

pandichcha 

pandichcha 

learning.- 

Dham.  3,24.\ 
Var.  iii.  27.  / 

pretya 

peohcha 

after  death. 

Br.20,100,182 

satya 

sachcha 

sachcha 

true. 

B.  &  Las.  167. 

hritya 

kidicha 

Meheha 

duty.. 

Br.  181,  198,\ 
278,  291.      j 

Br.  98,  147. 

nitya 

nichcha 

nichcha 

continual. 

rathya 

raehchha 

(raehchha, 
\rattha 

road. 

Tar.  i.  15,28.\ 
iii.  41. 

vriiehilea 

vichchhika 

(vichchiia, 
\vinchua 

scorpion. 

Dham.  55,74.\ 
Bt.  6,  22. 
Br.  287. 

paichat 

paehchha 

paehchha. 

after. 

pasehima 

pachohima 

pachchhima 

west. 

Br.  6,  53.       \ 
Var.  iii.  18. 

aicharya 

achchhera 

(achchhera 
\achcharia 

wonderful. 

Br.  242. 
Vikr.  9. 

as'charya 

achchhariya 

(achcharta 
[achchharia 

wonderful. 

"*  See  above,  p.  17,  note  18 

VOL.    II. 

6 

82 


COMPARATIVE  TABLE 


EEPEREKCES. 

SANSKRIT. 

GATHi. 

PALI. 

PRAKRIT. 

ENQLIBH. 

Br.  87. 

nUehita 

niohohhita 

nichehhida 

ascertained. 

Br.  218. 

apsamsah 

achchhara 

aehchharaum 

nymphs. 

Br.  202. 

apaaroiM^ 

achehharahi 

achchharahim 

by  nymphs. 

Br.  43,  64,   ) 
144.  Pr.  47,  \ 

lis.          ) 

asti,  astu 

atthi,  atthu 

atthi,  atthu 

is ;  let  there 
,  he. 

Pr.  20,  47. 

nasH 

n'atthi 

natthi 

is  not. 

Br.  122. 

vaatimi 

vatthtmi 

vatthuni 

thing  (loc). 

Br.  154. 

B/eastamhha 

avatthamha 

stoppage. 

Br.  1S4,  191. 

vistarena 

vitthSrena 

vittharena 

diffusion 
,  (instr.). 

Br.  238,  243. 

vistaranti 

vitthmanti 

vittharanti 

they  spread. 

Pr.  19. 

ntasta&ani 

maitha/cani 

matthaa'im 

heads. 

Br.  76,  238.\ 
Pr.  84.           ] 
Br.  49,  76. 

stana 

thana 

thana 

hreast. 

stanita 

thanita 

thanida 

sounded. 

Dham.  65.    ) 

Br.  158.  Pr. 

haata 

hattha 

hattha 

hand. 

26,  36,  110.  ) 

Clough,  29.  \ 
Br.  266. 

hasti 

hatthi 

hatthi 

elephant. 

Pr.  12.Br.278. 

sthala 

thala 

thala 

ground. 

Dham.  55.    ) 

Br.  71,  56,    \ 

sthSna 

thana 

thana 

place. 

278,  294.      ) 

Br.  164. 

msthana 

auttana 

a  good  place. 

Br.  131. 

sthanastha 

thanattha 

thanattha 

standing  in 
the  place. 

Br.  220. 

odMsMhana 

adhitthana 

ahiththana 

support 

Br.  164, 178.\ 
220.               / 

athita 

thiia 

tUda,  thida, 
\tida 

standing. 

Br.  157, 

prasthita 

patthita 

patthida 

proceeded, 
departure. 

Br.  238. 

prmthana 

patfAana 

ppaththana 

Br.  97. 

anmhthita 

cmutthita 

anuththida 

practised. 

Br.  209,  263. 

odhiaMMta. 

adhitthita 

iahikia 
\adhithida 

goTemed. 

Br.  199. 

upaathita 

vpatthita, 

twaththida 

arrived. 

Dham.  27. 
Var.  iii.  11. , 

astu 

atthi 

atthi 

a  hone. 

Br.  220. 

maatha 

avattha 

avattha 

condition. 

Br.  293. 

athira 

thira 

thira 

firm. 

Br.  154. 

auathita 

autthita 

autthida 

■well  placed, 
placed. 

(aamathita 
\utthita 

santhita 

aanthia 

Br.  217,  218. 

ufthita 

udida 

risen. 

Br.  198,  268,1 
296. 

Ag«stya 

Agatthi 

(name  of  a 
\  nshi. 

Br.  52. 

Pulaatya 

Pulattha 

apropername 

Var.  i.  20.     \ 
iii.  20. 

puataia 

potthaha 

potthaa 

book. 

Br.  236. 

praatara 

patthara 

a  stone. 

Dham.fl.Var.'l 
.  iu.27.  Br.96.J 

mrityu 

machehu 

(machcha       ) 
\  (mortal)     / 

death. 

Br.  112,  160, 

) 

153,  310.   Pr. 
35.  Dham.  60 

}  vataa 

vaehehha 

vaehehha 

a  child. 

) 

S^.  249(index) 

vataala 

vachehhala 

affectionate. 

OF  PALI  AND.PBAKRIT  WOEDS. 


83 


BEPEBENCES. 

SANSKRIT. 

GATHA. 

PALI. 

SBAKBIT. 

ENOIISH. 

Pr.  35. 

vataalj/a 

vachchhattana 

affection. 

Dh.28.Br.l95. 

ma,tsya  'is 

machohha 

machohha 

a  fish. 

Br.  228. 

udgdrailf 

uggarehi 

uggarehim 

Tomitings, 

Br.  182. 
Br.  125.       \ 
S^.  236.       / 

ttdghatana 

iigghatana 

ugghattana 

opening. 

grishma 

gimha 

gimha 

hot  season. 

Dham.  41. 

tuahnim 

tunhl 

tanhtm 

silent. 

Br.  48.  Bur.  \ 
&Las.  166. 

usTimSi 

fimha,^^' 
\ieama,  usuma 

umha 

heat. 

Dham.  69,  61 

trishtm 

tanha,  tasina 

tanha 

thirst. 

B?.  125,  135. 

(mlina, 
\cmushna 

vnka 

tmha,  unna 

hot. 

Srf.  233. 

ammha 

not  hot. 

Dham.  16.    \ 
Br.  141. 

krishna 

kanha 

1  kisana 

hlack. 

( kasana 

(pakhuma, 

)         '         ( 

with  long 

Br.  67,  125. 

pakshmala 

Ipamha 
( (eyelash). 

>  pamhala   I 

eyelashes,  or 
filaments. 

Pr.  137. 

vismaya 

vimhaya 

vimhaa 

astonishment. 

Pr.  47,  124.  ) 
Ss'.  238.        I 

jyotma 

junha 

jonha 

light. 

jyautsna 

jaunha 

lustrous. 

Br.  231,  245. 

khadga 

khagga 

khagga 

sword. 

Pr.  33,  37,  46. 

jalpa 

jappa 

jappa 

chatter. 

Br.  266,  278. 

kalpa 

kappa 

kappa 

wish. 

Br.  265. 

emalpa 

anappa 

anappa 

not  little. 

Br.  168,  167. 

valkala 

vakkhala 

vakkala 

bark. 

Var.  iii.  29. 
Mri.54.Dh.7l 

pmhkara 

pokkhara 

pokkhara 

pond. 

Br.  234. 

pmhkala 

pukkala 

(■excellent, 
\  much. 

Mrich.  18,  21. 

s'uihka 

sukkha 

(sukkha,       \ 
yukkha        f 

dry. 

Br.  54,  80. 

dushkara 

Aukka/ra 

dukkara 

difficult. 

Br.  202. 

cmugraha 

anuggaha 

anuggaha 

kindness. 

Br.  34,  82. 

panigrakana 

paniggahana 

paniggahana 

hand -taking, 

marriage. 

hand -taking. 

Br.  246. 

haatagraha 

hatthaggaha 

hatthaggaha 

Br.  36. 

namagrahana 

namaggahana 

namaggahana 

name-taking. 

Br.  20. 

8' mika/rapra- 

Sankarappa- 

S'ankaias' 

aada 

aada 

favour. 

Br.  198.        1 

prabha-        \ 
prasara      j 

* 

pabhappasara 

/diffusion  of 
\  splendour.   ; 

Br.  10.         1 

parsvapra-  ) 
sara           ) 

paaappapsara 

diffusionof,or| 
from,the  side.! 

Dham.  29.     ) 
Var.iii.32."8/ 

aimamnayam 

amhamayam 

.     .     . 

stony.            1 

Br.  279. 

nishkaruna 

nihkaruTia 

nikkarima 

merciless. 

"5  The  form  machchha  is  also  given  as  correct  Sanskrit  in  Wilson's  Dictionary,  as  well 
as  by  Bbhtlingk  and  Eoth ;  but  it  may  have  been  introduced  from  Prakiit. 

''8  Mr.  Cldlders  regards  ^mlha  as  a  doubtful  Pali  form. 

•"  See  p.  15,  note  17,  above.    Kanha  means  in  Prakrit  the  God  Krishna. 

i>s  The  rule  here  quoted  strictly  applies  only  to  the  mutation  of  ahma  and  ama,  and 
does  not  mention  ama. 


84 


COMPAEATIVE  TABLE 


EEPEKENCES. 

SANSKRIT. 

QATHA. 

PALI. 

PEAKRIT. 

ENGLISH. 

Br.  156,  281. 

) 

( vappha,     \ 

Var.  iii.  35,38. 

>  vashpa 

lappa 

1  vappha,     > 

moisture. 

Lassen,  209. 

) 

( vaha         ) 

Var.  iii.  35. 

) 

Br.  293. 

>  pmhpa 

puppha 

puppha 

flower. 

Dliam.  10. 

) 

Br.  286. 

nritya 

nalta 

dancing. 

Br.247.Ea.27. 

nritya 

nachcha 

nachcha 

dancing. 

Br.  147. 

nrityat 

(nachcham    \ 
(naehehanto  ] 

nachchanta 

fdancing 
1  (part.). 

Br.  248. 

nartitmn 

nachehitum 

nachchidtmt 

to  dance. . 

Br.  242.        \ 
Pr.  12,  38.   / 

sphwat 

phuram        ) 
phwanta     j 

phuranta 

throbting. 

Br.  209. 

visplmrita 

vipphuria 

quivered. 

Br.  235. 

vispTiuramti 

vipphuranti 

quiver. 

Br.235.  Pr.13. 

sphuUnga 

phulinga 

pphuUnga 

a  spark. 

Br.  242. 

samsphuUta 

sampphudida 

blossomed. 

Br.  204. 

sphara 

phara 

quivering. 

Br.  218. 

asphah/a 

apphalia 

having  touch- 

Br.  202. 

Uparsa 
\parisparsa 

phassa 

phamsa 
paripphamsa 

touch,      [ed. 
touch. 

Br.  310. 

parist/anda 

paripphanda 

dropping. 

Br.  245. 

utprerita 

uppherida 

sent  up. 

Br.  262. 

parisphztranii 

paripphuranti 

they  quiver. 

Pr.  10. 

sphatiha 

phalika 

phadia 

crystal. 

Br.  196,  268. 

slcandha 

khandha 

khandha 

shoulder. 

Var.  iii.   14,  \ 
60.Mrioh.40.| 

stambha 

thamiha 

khambha 

a  post. 

Br.  163.         \ 
Si.  254.         ] 

ivasru 

sassu 

same,  sasu 

/mother-in- 
1  law. 

~  ~  ^ 

fof  mothers- 
(  in-law. 

Br.  168. 

ivasrunam 

sassunam, 

sasunam 

Br.  156, 163,\ 
303.               j 

svaiura 

sasura 

sasura 

father-in-law 

Br.  142,  209,\ 
292.               j 
,  Br.  143,  263. 

pahva 

pakka 

pakka,  pikka 

mature. 

jmB 

Jala 

jala 

flame. 

Br.  235. 
Pr.  119. 

prajvalanti 
prajmlaya 

paj/alanti 
pajjalehi 

pajjalanti 
pajjalehi 

they  bum. 
(burn  (causal 
\  imperative) 

Br.  48. 

Jvalali 

jalali 

? 

Br.  213.  216. 

svamini 

samirit 

samim       ' 

mistress. 

Br.  216. 

tvarita 

turita 

turia 

quick. 

Pr.  48. 

tattva 

tatta 

truth. 

Br.  238. 

asva 

asaa 

assa 

horse. 

Br.  147. 

svaehha 

sachchha 

clear. 

Br.  6. 

dvidha 

(dvidha, 
\dvedha 

dudha 

in  two  ways. 

Br.  168. 

jiJwa 

j'ivha 

j>K5, 

tongue. 

Br.  203. 

mSlya 

malya 

malla 

garland. 

Pr.  48. 

punya 

punna 

punna 

merit. 

Br.200.Pr.45 

sunya 

mnfia 

suna,  sunna 

empty. 

Bur.  &  Lass.l 
166.            j 

aranya 

aranna 

aranna 

forest. 

Clough,  36.  \ 
Var.  X.  10. 

leanya 

Icanna 

kanja  ■ 

a  girl. 

OF  PALI  AND  PEAKRITS  WOEDS. 


85 


ESFEBENCES. 

SANSKRIT. 

GATHA. 

PALI. 

PRAKRIT. 

ENGLISH. 

Br.  247. 

svadihrita 

aadikata 

saddikada 

sweetened. 

Br.  230,  244. 

divya 

dibha 

dima 

divine. 

Br.   22,  64,  \ 
144,  162.       / 

fit. 

yogya 

yogga 

jogga 

Br.  72,  85,  \ 
100,  105.       ) 

iishya 

aissa, 

sisrn 

disciple. 

Br.  100, 120,/ 
139,  229.       \ 

anya,  anyatha 

anna 

anna,        \ 

other,  other- 

anyatak 

annatha 

UillltUiiAilbUi       1 

annado     ) 

wise,  etc. 

Br.  276. 

kamsya 

kamsa 

kamsa 

bell  metal. 

Br.  132.         / 
Easav.  17.     ( 

palyanka 
paryanlca 

pallanka 
pariyanka 

pallanka 

hed. 

Br.  155. 

salya 

salta 

satta 

dart. 

Br.  68,76,246. 

tiryalc 

tiriyam 

tiriehchha 

oblique. 

Pr.65.Dham.\ 
6,  56.            / 

mpta,  gupta 

mtta,  gutta 

sutta,  gutta 

/asleep,  pro- 
(  tected. 

Pr.  21,46,114. 

prapta 

patta 

patta 

obtained. 

Br.  279. 

vidhvamsana 

viddhamsana 

(vidhdham- 
\  Sana 

destruction. 

Br.  198,  259. 

mlupta 

vilutta 

vilutta 

disappeared. 

Br.  240. 

vilipta 

vilitta 

vilidda 

smeared. 

Dham.  54. 

tapta 

tatta 

tatta 

burnt. 

Br.  218,  245. 

Jcshipta 

khitta 

khitta 

thrown. 

CloTigh,  39. 

tripti 

titti 

titti 

satisfaction. 

Br.  76,154, 198 

(samutpatti 
(uipanna 

samuppatti 
iippanna 

samuppatti 
uppanna 

birth, 
born. 

Br.  243. 

samutposhita 

samupposita 

samiipposida 

cherished. 

Br.  217. 

utkshipya 

ukkMppa 

ujjhia 

having  thrown 
upwards. 

Br.  228. 

janma 

jamma 

birth. 

Br.  236. 

pippaia 

pipphala 

pipala 

ficus  Indica. 

Br.  198. 

sikta 

sitta 

sitta 

sprinkled. 

Br.  227. 

vaktukama 

vattukama 

vattukama 

/wishing  to 
\  speak. 

Br.  113,  120. 

punaruUi 

pwnarutti 

punarutti 

repetition. 

Dham.  54. 

bhukta 

bhutta 

bhutta 

eaten. 

Var.  iii.  1. 

hhakta 

bhatta 

bhatta 

(rice  boiled  or 
(  in  husk. 

Br.  195,  227,/ 
264,  298.       \ 

mukta 
mauktika 

mutta 

(mota,  mutta 
\mottia 

[pearL 

Clough,  39.    ( 
Var.  iii.  1.     ( 

yukti 

yutti 

jutti 

propriety. 

mukti 

mutti 

mutti 

redemption. 

Pr.  36,  91.  Br. 

) 

10,    24,    168, 

}  mukta 

mutta 

mukka 

freed. 

170,  195,  231. 

) 

Br.  35,98,141. 

yukta 

yutta 

jutta 

fit. 

Br.  67,  204. 

rakta 

ratta 

ratta 

red,  blood. 

Br.  75. 

sakta 

satta 

satta 

attached. 

Mrichli.  120.1 
Var.  iii.  29.  / 

kshetra 

khetta 

khetta 

field. 

Br.  87. 

ahhiyoktum 

abhiyunjitum 

abhijujjidum 

to  accuse. 

Br.    76,    238, 

) 

242,  259,  294. 

}  akshi 

'aehchhi,  akkhi 

aehchhi 

eye. 

Pr.  46. 

) 

Br.  307. 

akshi 

1 

akkhi 

eye. 

COMPARATIVE  TABLE 


REFERENCES. 

SANSKRIT. 

GAXHA, 

FALL 

PRAKRIT. 

ENGLISH. 

Br.  238,  244,\ 
259.               / 

vahahahsthala 

vachehha-    \ 
tthala,      ] 

breast. 

Br.  199, 134,1 
294.Pr.ll,41/ 

Lakshmi 

LakkKl 

Laehhi,        \ 
Lachchht     j 

goddess  of 
fortune. 

Br.  113. 

yaaUi 

yatthi,  lattM 

laehehhi 

a  club. 

Br.  76,  243. 

viJeshobha 

vikkhotha 

viehchhoha 

agitation. 

Br.  49,  93.    "l 
Pr.  10,  35.     / 

,  prekshasva 

jpekkhaaaa,    ] 
[pekkha         j 

pekkha 

look  (thou). 

Br.  68,  Pr.21. 

prelcshasva 

peehehha 

look  (thou). 

Br.  220. 

Br.  48,  198,  \ 

226.               i 

prelishya 

pekkhiya 

oekkhia 

having  looked 

prakihSltma 

pakkhalana 

pakkhalana 

washing. 

Pr.  35,  124. 

prahahalitam 

pakkhalitam 

pachchaliam 

washed. 

Br.  139. 

Br.  202,  221,\ 

250.               j 

cmakshipami 

olckhipami 

cmakkhivami 

I  distract. 

rihha 

ikka,  aehchha 

rikkha 

a  bear. 

Pr.  19. 

nilcsMpyante 

nikhiplyanti 

nikhkhipyanh 

are  thrown 

Br.  92. 

lalcshya 

'lakkha 

a  mark.  [out. 

Br.  67, 77, 861 
CI.  51.  Pr.  46/ 

hahatriya 

khattiya 

khattia 

a  kshatriya. 

Br.  199. 

laTcsha 

Idkkha 

lakkha 

100,000. 

Br.  48,69,71.) 
Pr.  84.           ] 

khana 

kh(ma,chhana 

khana 

fa  moment, 
(festival. 

Clough.  38. 

Ttshama, 

khama 

khama 

pardon. 

Bur.  &  L^s.) 
166.  Br.  112.J 

lahhana 

lakkhana 

lakkhana 

a  mark. 

Br.  180. 

Jeshtna 

k/iina 

khina 

decayed. 

Br.  86,  141,  1 
266.               / 

pakaha 

pakkha 

pakkha 

side,  wing. 

Br.  20,  52.    \ 
Pr.  19.          } 
Br.  62. 

raishaaa 

rakkhaaa 

rakkhasa 

a  Rakshasa. 

rakaha 

rakkha 

rakkha 

deliverance. 

Pr.  19. 

rakafiitva 

rakkhitva 

rakkhia 

/having  de- 
(  Hvered. 

Pr.  12,  84. 

dakahim 

dakkhina 

dakkhina 

south. 

Br.  249. 

dakahina 

dakkhina 

dahina 

right  (side). 

Br.  198. 

aakehin 

aakkhl 

aakkhi 

witness. 

Br.  290. 

kahtra 

khira 

khira 

mUk. 

Br.  221. 

kakauma 

khoma 

khoma 

of  linen. 

Br.  121. 

akahara 

akkhara 

akkhara 

letter. 

Br.  246,  248. 

kakaha 

kaecha 

kakkha 

side. 

Br.  215. 

chakahuahah 

ehakkhmio 

chakkhuno 

of  the  eye. 

Br.  103, 165  f. 

dikahita 

sikkhita 

aikkhida 

learnt. 

Br.  75. 

vikshepa 

vikkhepa 

vikkheva 

perplexity. 

Bar.&Laas. 
167.              / 
Dham.  46. 

moksha 

mokkha 

mokkha 

deliverance. 

hahema 

khema 

khema 

prosperity. 

Dham.  23. 

antarikshe 

mtalikkhe 

atmosphere. 

Br.7,l79,2341 
245.Pr.34,90) 

aahdti 

aadda 

aadda 

sound. 

Br.  66,  121, 

266.  Pr.  10, 

muffdha 

muddha 

muddha 

bewildered. 

35,  41. 

Br.  76,  194.  \ 
Pr.  10,  41. 

dugdJia 

duddha 

duddha 

milk. 

Br.  290. 

dugdha 

duddha 

duda 

milk. 

OF  PALI  AND  PEAKRIT  WORDS. 


87 


SEFEBSNCES. 

SANSKRIT. 

GATHA. 

PALI. 

PRAKRIT. 

ENOLISII. 

Pr.  10.  Br.  \ 
72,  266.        / 

migdha 

siniddha 

siniddha 

affectionate. 

Pr.  36. 

vidagdha 

vidaddha 

cleTer. 

Br.  20. 

labdha 

laddha 

laddha 

obtained. 

Br.  131. 

luidha 

luddha 

luddha 

covetous. 

Br.  67,  226, ) 

278,  287.      > 

paryanta 

pariyanta 

peranta 

limit. 

Pr.  134.        ) 

Br.  176. 

pranta 

panta 

peranta 

vicinity. 

Var.  i.  8. 

mayura 

mayura, 
(mora 

maura          \ 
mora           | 

peacock. 

Var.  i.  7. 

lavana 

lavana,  lona 

lona 

salt. 

Mrichh.  120. 

v'Ja 

VJja 

via 

seed. 

Mrichh.  77. 

vaniJc 

vanija 

bania,  vania 

merchant. 

Mrichh.  78. 

hayastha 

kayattha 

kaathaa 

kayasth. 

Mrich.  296,  ) 
161.     Lass.  } 
172,  218.      ) 

devalaya      \ 
devakula 

devalaya 

devala 

temple. 

Var.  iv.  1. 

rajalcula 

rajakula 

raaiila,  raula 

royal  race. 

Mrichh.  30,  \ 
38  f.              / 

dyutakara 

jutakara      j 

judiara        \ 
judiaru        > 
judiala        ) 

gamhler. 

snana 

l,nahS,na 
\sinana 

nhana 

bathing. 

Var.  iii.  33. 
Br.  289.       ' 

vahni 

vanhi 

fire. 

Vishnte 

Vinhu 

Visbnu. 

s'lakshna 

sanha 

samha 

gentle. 

tlkshna 

tikhina,  tinha 

tikkha,  timha 

sharp. 

Mrichh.  6. 

daridrata 

daliddata 

daliddadd 

poverty. 

Var.  T.  24. 

haridra 

halidda 

(haladda,       \ 
{haladdi        j 

turmeric. 

Var.  iii.  25. 

gartta 

gadda 

hole 

Var.  iv.  31. 

maUna 

malina 

imalina,        \ 
\mdila           ] 

dirty. 

Var.  iii.  30. 

makshika 

makkhika 

machchhid 

a  fly. 

Var  iv.  33. 

j  duhita 
\dhlda 

duhita 

dhuda 

daughter, 
maiden. 

dhtta 

dhla 

dhanava 

dhanala 

wealthy. 

Var.iv.  25. 

1  iahdmat 
malcmat 

saddala 
malailla 

sounding, 
(having  a  gar- 
(  land. 

Var.  iii.  17,19. 
Clough,  19. 

Var.  iii.  12.  ( 
Mrichh.  18.  i 

surya 

turiya 

sujja,  sura 

sun. 

mastaka ''' 

matthaka 

matthaa 

head. 

samasta 

samattha 

samattha 

all. 

stuti 

thuti 

thui 

praise. 

Br.  195,  264. 

sulcti 

mtti,  sippt 

sippi 

shell. 

Br.  259,  270, 

lalata 

(lalata,  nala(a 
\  (fem.) 

Damila 

lalada,  nidola 

forehead. 

Br.  66. 

Dravida 

Damida 

(the  Dravida 
\  country. 

Br.  242. 
Lt.  372. 

kamalint 
pushkarini  ; 

paditii ''" 

pimdarikini 

puddint 

lotus-pond. 

1"  This  vrord  has  been  repeated  by  mistake.    See  p.  82. 
I'o  According  to  another  reading,  pushkarini. 


88 


COMPARATIVE  TABLE 


RErERENCES. 

SANSKRIT. 

gathI. 

PALI. 

PRAKRIT. 

ENOLISH. 

Br.  245. 

(pes'ala 

vyatta 

veatti 

cleTer. 

'  without  arrogance, 

Lalitavista.  ( 

adambhlf    \ 

or  without  wonder 

355  f.,    and 

anascha-     \ 

achchhambJii 

achehhambhl 

1 

[according  to   the 

n.  2,  p.  402.  ( 

■  ryavanva   ) 

ri82 

commentary.]  Un- 
daunted, rin  Palil. 

B.  &Las.  99. 

purushah 

puriso 

puriso 

man. 

B.  &Las.  86. 

avakas'ah 

okaso 

okaso 

leisure. 

B.  &  Las.  166. 

manuahyali 

manusso 

manusso 

man. 

Lt.  153. 

avalambhate 

olambate 

olambati 

he  hangs. 

Lt.  245. 

alamhayata, 
avalambayata^ 

Solambayatha, 

hang. 

Lt.  272.        1 

abhasita, 
a/vabhasita  ? 

obhasita 

obhasita 

illuminated. 

Lt.  270.        ( 

prasvnpitah 
cmamapitah  ? 

losvapiia 

put  to  sleep. 

Lt.  292.         i'prasvSpmam 
(^iwasvapanam  ? 

\osvapanam 

■putting  to 
,  sleep. 

Lt.  292,  456. 1 

pranamantan 
avanamantah  ? 

onamanta 

onamanto 

bowing  down. 

Lt.  300,  338. 

avaruhya 

(oruhitva 
\oruhya 

oruhitva      ) 
oruyha         j 

haTing  de- 
scended. 

Pr. 

sambhavayami 

sambhavemi 

sambhavemi 

I  conjecture. 

Br.  58. 

isampadaya-) 
\  mah            1 

sampSdema 

sampademha 

we  fulfil. 

Pr.  44. 

aropayasi 

aropesi 

arovesi 

thou 
stretchest. 

Pr.  34. 

nirupayamah 

nvrmemha. 

we  fix. 

Pr.  126. 

alingayami 

(Slinyayama, 
\aUngema 

\alinyemi 

I  embrace. 

Br.  221. 

(sajjayata, 
\anayata 

mjjetha 

sajjeha 

prepare  ye. 

anetha 

anedfm 

bring  ye. 

Br.  112. 

dharayaai 

(d/iarayasi 
(dharesi 

dharesi 

(thou  up- 
(  boldest. 

Lt.  324. 

dharayanti 

dhdrenti 

idharaymiti 
[dharenti 

dharenti 

they  hold. 

Br.  20,  88. 

mantrayathah 

mcmtetha 

mantedha 

ye  adTise. 

Br.  121. 
Lt.  157. 

niyamanti    \ 
vineshyati    ] 

vinenti 

vinenti 

nimenti       j 

they  restrain, 
he,  they,  lead, 
or  wiU  lead. 

Br.  221. 

uttambhayata 

uttambheha 

support  ye. 

Lt.  352. 

darsayanti 

darsenti 

dassmti 

they  show. 

Br.  36. 

s'ithilayami 

sidhilemi 

I  slacken. 

Lt.  148. 

nivartayati 

nwarieti 

nivatteti 

he  stops. 

Lt.84,157,  f 
180,  204.       j 

ayanti 
upayanti 

enti 
vpenti 

enti 
tipenti 

they  come, 
(they  ap- 
\  proacu. 

Lt.14,186,189 

chodayanti 

chodenti 
stAape,         1 
sthapehi      ( 

chodenti 

they  impel. 

Lt.  214. 

sthapaya 

thapehi 

place  thou. 

121  One  of  the  senses  assigned  in  Wilson's  Dictionary  to  vyakta  is  "  wise,  learned." 
"i'  Mr.  Ohilders  thinks  this  word  is  the  equiTalent  of  the  Sanskrit  astambhin,  "  not 

paralyzed  with  fear."    The  word  "  achambha  is  well  known  in  Hindi,  where  it  means 

"astonishment." 


OF  PALI  AND  PRAKRIT  "WORDS. 


89 


SEFESBNCEB.    |      8AN8KBIT. 

GATHA. 

PALI. 

FBAKRIT. 

ENQLISH. 

Lt.  223. 

puraya 

purehi 

purehi 

fiU  thou. 

Lt.  90. 

yashficlha-  \ 
,  rakan        J 

i»h(ifcan 

mace-bearers. 

Lt.  158,  181. 

na  api 

napi 

napi 

not  eTen. 

Lt.  231,  288. 

tathSpi 

tathapi 

tathapi 

neTertheless. 

Lt.  421. 

punar  api 

pimopi 

{puma  pi 
Xptmo  pi 

\ 

again,  so. 

Pr.  19,  39. 
Pr.  89.  Br.  94. 

Mm  o^t 

kirn  pi 

{ 

kimpi,Mmvi 
Mmpi 

anytUng. 

Pr.  19,  151. 

Jcim  iti 

kin  ti 

Mm  ti 

what,  so. 

Pr.  84. 

leaaminn  api 

kasmim  pi 

kaaaim  pi 

in  any. 

Pr.  47.  Lt.  \ 
227,  304.       / 

tvam  api 

(tubhyampi 
{vayampi 

tvam  pi 

twnam  vi 

thou,  we,  so. 

Pr.   ?Lt.387. 

ayam  iti 

ahem  ti 

aham  pi 

imotti 

this,  I,  BO. 

Br.  198. 

mitratva 

mitrattana 

friendship, 
childhood. 

Br.  79. 

ialatva 

ialattana 

Lt.  231,  302. 

vidoadbhi^ 

viduihih 

viduhi 

(by  learned 
\  men. 

Br.  87. 

numasa 

(manasa, 
\manena 

■ 

manena 

with  the  mind 

Br.  246,  270. 

airasa 

sirasa,  sirena 

sirena 

with  the  head 

Lt.  148,  204. 

nabhasi 

nabhe 

(nabhasi, 
\nabhe 

} 

in  the  heaTen 

WoTE. — For  the  greater  part  of  the  words  in  Table  II.  pp.  27-29  above,  Mr.  Childers 
knows  no  Pali  equiTalents,  nor  for  the  following  additional  words  which  I  have  noted  in 
the  Balaramayana  and  PrasannaraghaTa,  Tiz.,  kadrano  "monkeys"  (Br.  238),  niluklcana 
"  abode,"  nilukkanta  "  issued  forth"  (Br.  266  f.),  vellira  "  moving "  (Br.  203),  hala- 
havallava  "whispers"  (Br.  150),  visatta,  vissattanta,  visattanti  " oleax,"  "blown,"  or 
" blowing  (as  a  flower),"  and  "they  issue  forth,"  (Br.  ).  I  find  in  the  Br.  221,  a 
Terb  dhoeha,  rendered  in  the  comm.  by  vahata,  "  carry  ye,"  =  the  Hindi  dhona,  "  to 
carry  a  load,"  and  in  the  Lalita  Vistara  261,  a  noun  osa,  dew,  =  Hindi  os,  which  has 
the  same  sense.    These  two  words  belong  to  Table  II.  p.  27,  ff. 


so 


COMBAEATIViE  TABLES 


Table  Ifo.  lY. 

Ths  following  Table  of  ordinals  wnd  numerals  will  show  that  in  some 
eases  the  Pali  and  Prakrit  words  are  identical;  hut  that  in  most 
bases  the  Pali  words  are  nearer  to  the  Sanskrit  than  the  corresponding 
Praknit  words  are. 

In  the  cases  where  the  Prakrit  words  are  omitted,  1  have  heen  unahle  to  supply  them. 


KEPEHENCES. 

SANSKKIT. 

tIlj. 

pkakh.it. 

BNSLISH. 

Dham.  4.     Mrichh, 
98.  Lassen,  209. 

prathamah 

pafAamo 

tpathtmo,     ) 
{padhamo      ) 

first. 

Dham.  6.  Mriohh.  69. 

dvitlyah 

dutiyo 

dudio 

second. 

Dham.  8.  Mriohh.  69. 

trittyah 

tatiyo 

tdio 

third. 

Dham.  35,Bur.&Laa.\ 
90.  Var.  vi.  58.        / 

chatmrdh 

chattaro 

chattaro 

four.                 < 

Dham.  11.  Var.  i.  9. 
Mrich.  69. 

ehaturthah 

chatuttho 

(cha,uttho, 
\cha,uttho 

fourth. 

Dham.  14.  Mpch.  70. 

panchamah 

ptmchamo 

panehamo 

fifth. 

Bur.  &  LaS.  87.  Las./ 
320.Dham.l6.Mri.70.\ 

shut 

cha 

chha 

six. 

shashthah 

chhattho 

chhattho 

sixth. 

Dham.  18.  Mrichh.  71. 

saptamah 

sattamo 

sattamo 

seventh. 

Dham.  21.  Mriohh.  72. 

ashtamaji 

afthamo 

atlhamo 

eighth. 

Dham.  23.  Myich.  100 

rumamah 

navamo 

navamo 

ninth. 

Dham.  26.  Lass.  320. 

daiamah 

dasaimo 

dasamo 

tenth. 

Dham.  28.  Var.  ii.  14. 

ekadadan 

ehadas'a 

earaha 

eleven. 

Dham.  30.  Var.  ii.  14. 

dvadasan 

doadttsa, 
iSrasa 
terasa,telttsa , 

varaha 
teraha 

twelve. 

Dham.  32.  Var.  ii.  14. 

trayodaimt 

thirteen. 

Dham.  76.  Var.  i.  9,1 
and  ii.  14.                j 

ohaturddsan 

t  chatitddaaa, 
1  chuddam, 
( choddaaa 

1  cha,uddaha 

fourteen. 

Dham.  38.  Var  iii.  44. 

panchadasan 

pandaamaj  '\ 
pannarasa   } 

pannaraho 

fifteen. 

Dham.  39.  Lass.  320. 

shodaicm 

solasa 

solaha  (.') 

sixteen. 

Dham.  42.  Lass.  320. 

saptadaian 

sattarasa 

sattaraha  (.«) 

seventeen. 

Dham.  45.  Lass.  320. 

ashtadasan 

attharasa 

attMraha 

eighteen. 

Dham.  48. 

uncmimiati 

eicunamsati 

... 

nineteen. 

Dham.  51.  Lass.  320. 

vimsati 

visati 

vtsa,i 

twenty. 

Dham.  64,  76. 

ekmimdati 

eimlsati 
t  dvavTsati, ) 

•    •     • 

twenty-one. 

Dham.  66,  76. 

dvavmaati 

1  bamsati,    ) 
{  dvavtsam  J 

•    •    • 

twenty-two. 

Dham.  59,  76. 

traymimiati 

tevtsati,tmtaa 

.    .     . 

twenty-three. 

Dham.  64. 

ehatmmmsati 

ehattmtsati 

.    .    . 

twenty-four. 

Dham.  68. 

pamchcmimsati 

pamhavJsati 

.    .    . 

twenty-five. 

Dham.  76. 

shadtiimsati 

chhabbtsati 

.    ■    . 

twenty-six. 

Dham.  76. 

chatvarimsat 

ehattalisam 

•    •     • 

forty. 

OF  GATHJ,,  PitLI  AND  PRAKRIT  "WORDS. 


91 


Table  No.  Y. 

Cmiparatfke  list  of  pariieles  and  pronoims,  etc.,  in  Pali  and  Prahrit,  with 
a  few  corresponding  words  in  the  Gatha  dialect. 


REPEKTillOEB. 

SANSKRIT. 

eiiHA. 

PAIil. 

EKAKHIT. 

EN&LISH. 

Br.  20,  149. 

atha 

atha 

aha 

now.              ! 

CI.  74,  Br.  282. 

atham 

athava 

adhma 

or. 

Br.48,£f.  CI.  68. 

itah 

ito,  ato 

ido 

hence.           ■ 

Br.  50.  id.  69. 

iha 

iha,  idha 

,  iAha 

here.             ; 

Br.  35,92,121,  \ 

139,  1.67,  1;69,    : 
178.  CI.  69. 

atra 

ettha 

ettha 

here. 

Pr.  43.             ;, 

Pr.  35.               ' 

atra 

etta 

here. 

Pr.  113,  01,68  f. 

atra 

atra,  attha 

attha 

here. 

Pr.  19. 

atra 

atto 

here. 

Br.    IS6.     Pr.  V 
119.  Clougli69. 

yatra 

yatra,  yattha 

jattha 

where. 

Br.  96, 149, 238. 

tatra 

tatra,  tattha 

tattha 

there. 

Br.  98,  149.  Lt. 
163,191f.C1.69. 

tatra 

ta%i 

tahim,  taham 

tahim, 

there. 

Br.  246. 

tada 

tahim 

then. 

Br.  180,  218,  -j 

145,  148,  200,  ( 
210,  236.  Lt.  ( 
66,  61,  464.      ; 

yatha 

IJihmi,    \ 
jihma,  } 
Jaka      ) 

yatha 

'jaha,jaha, 
\iahamjadha 

as. 

Br.  160. 

yat 

yam 

Jadha 

that. 

Br.  181,216,223. 

tatm 

tatha 

taha 

so. 

Br.  148,  27i8. 

tathS, 

tadha 

so. 

Br.  86,  122. 

yatah 

yato 

jado 

whence. 

Br.  297. 

yatah 

jatto 

whence. 

Pr.  47. 

tatali 

tato 

tado 

thence. 

Br.88,148.Pr.20. 

yacU 

yadi 

jadi 

if. 

Br.  70,  229.    \ 
Pr.  17,  47.       / 

yadi 

jdi 

if. 

Br.  189. 

yadi 

jahim 

if. 

Br.  77. 

yathechehham 

lyathicchitam 

jahijjam 

as  desired. 

Br.  238. 

yatheehchham 

is  used;] 

jahiohchham 

as  desired. 

Br.  34,  97.       \ 
Pr.  20,  34.        / 
Br.   92,   164,  1 
,   163.  167. 
Br.  77. 

Tcatham 

katham 

kaham 

how? 

Mtham 

kadham 

how? 

katham 

klaa 

how? 

Br.  139,  169.   ) 
Pr.  112.           / 

leva 

(lcahim{ljw. 
\262,  283.) 

kuhiih,         ) 
kuhnm         J 

kahim 

where  ? 

Pr.  40.  CI.  69. 

leva 

ikva,  kutra,  \ 
[kuttha         1 
kuto 

kaha 

where  ? 

Br.  86. 

kutah 

kudo 

whence  ? 

Br.  88. 

kirn 

kim 

kl. 

why? 

Br.  295.  CI.  52. 

katara 

katara 

kadara 

which  ? 

Br.  20. 

kati 

kati 

kadi 

how  many  ? 

Br.  6,  181. 

tat 

torn 

tarn 

that. 

Br.  34.  36,  66,  ) 
73  f,  113,276, 

tea 

tarn 

ta 

(that,  there- 
\  fore. 

Pr.  19.              ) 

1 

92 


COMPARATIVE  TABLE 


BEPERENOES. 

SANSKRIT. 

oathI. 

PALI. 

PEAKaiT. 

ENGLISH. 

Pr.  19,  47. 

tm-hi 

tadd  (te>-a«)l  ta 

then. 

Br.  35,  79, 182. 
Cowell,  xxviii.  \ 

yat 

yam 

jam 

what. 

Br.  70.  Pr.  44. 

122.  Lt.  190, 

iilOOT"' 

tmna 

tvam,  tmam 

tumam 

thou. 

196. 

Pr.  41. 

tvam 

Ham,  tavam, 
[tvam,  tmam 

tumam 

thee. 

Pr.  38. 

tubhyam. 

(tama,  twyham 
\tmnham 

\tuAtt 

to  thee. 

Br.  120,  181.   5 
Br.  35,  113. 

tma 
te  (tava) 

I  tava. 

tuha,  ttimma 

)   ,u 

ti 

ttiyham. 

tumha,  tvjjha 

>  of  thee. 

tumham 

te,de 

) 

Br.    66,   181,  ) 

(tvaya 
\taya 

tue,  fumae, 

) 

224,  145,  165,  | 
170,  177,  153. ) 

tvaya 

tae,  ttime,  te, 
de,  tie 

1  by  thee. 

Pr.       ?             \ 
Pr.  124. 

tvayi 

tayi 

(tumammi, 
(trnnhi,  tdi 

in  thee. 

Pr.  40.  Lt.  173, 
396. 

yuyam 

(yuBhme, 
Xymkmi    ; 

tumhe 

tumhe,  tujhe 

you. 

yushnan 

(tumhakam, 
[titmhe 

tujjhe,  ttmhe, 
vo 

Jyou  (aeons.) 

ymhrnSbhih 

itumhtbhi,    ) 
\ttmihehi      j 

I  tujjhehiik, 
<  tmnhehim, 
( tiimmehim 

1  by  you. 

Cowell,  xxviii. . 

yttshmat 

(tvmhebhi, 
\timhehi 

-  ( 

tumhdhinto 
ttim/iSstmto 
vo,  bhe,  tuj- 

from  you, 

1 

yushmaiam 

twmJiSkam  < 

jhanam,  tum- 
ha,nam 

>  of  you. 

yushmasu 

tmnhem 

Uujjheau, 
ytumhesu 

1  in  you. 

Br.  283. 
Pr.  41,  138. 

taayal} 

(tissaya,  tissa, 
(tassa,  taya 

\tissa,tte,tae 

of  her. 

Pr.  134. 

taya 

taya 

tae 

by  her. 

Pr.  45,  47, 

ayrnn 

ayam 

imo 

this  (maso.) 

Pr.  26,47, 120,  / 

125.  Br.  36,55,  ) 
66,    72,    100. 

asya, 
imasya(vedic) 

Umaaya 

assa,            \ 
imassa        j 

imassa,  se 

ofthis(masc.) 

Lt.  396.           \ 

Pr.   120.   Br.  1 
35.  Lt.  454.     / 

anena 

ena 

anena,  imina 

imina 

bythis(masc.) 

Pr.  38. 

anaya 

imaya 

I  asmiin,      \ 

imde 

by  this  (fern.) 

Br.  65,  67,  70. 

asmin 

I  imasmim,  > 
( imamhi     ) 

imassim 

in  this  (masc) 

- 

i 

esam,  esanam, 

) 

Pr.  13. 

esham 

1 

imesam, 
imesanam 

>  imanmti 

of  these. 

Pr.  36. 

ebhih 

ebhi,  imebhi, ) 
ehL  imehi    / 

imehim 

by  these. 

Pr.  134. 

Jcmyah 

hie 

ofwhom?(f.) 

"3  ^  comparatiTe  statement  of  the  first  personal  pronoun  will  be  found  further  on  in 
the  text. 


OF  GATHA,  PALI  AND  PRAKKIT  WORDS. 


93. 


BBFERENOES. 

SANSKBIT. 

QAIHA. 

PALI. 

PRAKMT. 

ENGLISH. 

Br.  35. 

idam 

idam,  imam 

inam 

this  (neuter). 

Br.  5. 

etat 

m 

etam,  etad 

edam 

this. 

Br.  50. 

ete 

ete 

ede 

these  (masc.) 
these  fern.) 

Br.  44  f. 

etah 

eta,  eiayo 

edao 

Br.  57. 

te 

ne,  te 

de 

they. 

Br.  36. 

etavat 

I 

(vast,  ettamta, 
\" 80  far" 
etto  and  ettako 

edaha 

so  much. 

Br.  213. 

etaoat 

1 

(adj.)     "so 
much" 

I  ettiu 

so  much. 

Pr.  19. 

iyanti 

ettiaim 

|bo  much  (pi, 
(  neuter). 

Br.  29,  293. 

yma 

yena 

jena 

by  which  or 
whom. 

Br.  8. 

t/asmin 

yasmim,yam}u 

jaasim 

(in  which  or 
\  whom. 

Br.  87. 

yesham 

yeaam 

janam 

of  whom. 

Br.  56. 

tesham 

tesam,  tesanam 

tanam 

of  them. 

nesam,nesamim 

Br.  65. 

sadriia 

sadisa,  aadisa 

aadiaa 

■% 

Br.  35,  113, 289. 

sadriaa 

Pr.  12,  16,  44. 

sarisa 

aariaa 

•like. 

Br.  66,  76,  80,\ 
292.  Pr.  41.      / 

sadrikaha 

(sadikkha, 
\sarikkha      ) 

aarichchha 

Br.  35. 

idrisa 

Idisa 

Tdiaa 

■ 

Pr.  43,  46. 

idrida 

irisa 

Trtsa 

like  this. 

Pr.  16,  19,  48. 

tdrida 

edisa,  erisa 

eriaa 

Br.  53,67, 164,1 
218.                  ) 

kidriia 

kldisa 

ktdiaa 

like  what. 

Br.  88.  Pr.  113. 

kidriia 

kJrisa 

kiriaa,  kerisa 

like  what  p 

Pr.  91. 

tachriia 

tadiaa,  tarisa 

tarisa 

like  that. 

Pr.  112, 

anyadriia 

annariaa 

like  another. 

Br.  299. 

asmadriiam 

amhadisa 

amhariaa 

like  us. 

Br,  120.            \ 
Clougb,  70.       / 

idanim 

(dani,  idani,  \ 
\etarahi         j 

enhm 

now. 

Br.  77,  138.  Pr. 

(atmUnam 
(atmmam 

attanam, 

attanam 

\ 

26.  Dham.  29. 

attmanam 

afppanam 

>  himself. 

KarpuramaujarT, 
in  Balar.<'p.   6. 

1  atma   . 

atta 

appd 

Br.  122. 

)  mahatmya 

mahappa 

greatness. 

94 


COMPARATIVE  TABU! 


Table  Ko.  VL    ■ 

The  following  Table  exUhita  a  Usf  of  Pali  words,  some  of  wMeh  retain 
unaltered  the  Sanskrit  form,  while  oth^s  are  moddfied,  hut  sometimes  less 
than  in  Prakrit. 


BEFEBENCES. 

BANSKKIT. 

elTHA. 

PALI, 

FBAERIT, 

ENaUSH. 

Dham.31,  55,  ) 

fi8.Clougli,21.  J 
Var.  V.  36.        ) 

raja 

raja 

raa 

king. 

Dham.  12.  and) 
Var.  i.  17.         / 

jihva 

jmha 

jtha 

tongue. 

Clough,  39.  and 
Var.  ii.  32.        j 

yashti 

yatthi,  laW^i 

latm 

staff. 

Dham.  40.  Var.  1 
ii.  27.  &  Mrich.) 

aadhum 

(sadhitm       ) 
\aahum         \ 

aahum 

good. 

Dham.  61.  and 
Var.  T.  35. 

pita 

pita 

pia 

father  (nom.) 

Dham.  62.  and 
Var.  T.  34. 

pitwram 

pitaram 

piaram 

father(aocus.) 

Rasa.  15. 
Dham.  26,  52,  \ 
71.&Var.iii.8.J 

pitra 

pitara 

pidma 

father  (instr.) 

hrahmanatf 

hrahmano 

vamham 

Brahman. 

Dham.   72.   &  \ 
Var.  i.  18.         / 

gambhfra 

tgamihJra 
Xgabhira 

gahira 

deep. 

Dham.  20^  24.\ 
&  Var.  iv.  6.     / 

jivUam, 

jJvitam 

jivam,  jTam 

life. 

Dham.  27.   Br.\ 
242,  251.          1 

andhalcarma 

andhaharena 

andhaanna 

darkness. 

Dham,  28.        1 
Mriohh.  43,  69./ 

haTivardali 

ialivaddo 

baliddo,  ba,illo 

ox. 

Dham.  34.  &    \ 
Var.  iii.  39.       j 

TtarthSpanali 

kahSpma 

hahavam 

16  pauas  of 
cowries. 

Dham.  44. 

ammdhim 

aamadhim'^'* 

meditation. 

Dham.  46.  and  / 
Var.  iv.  16.       \ 

yavata 

yavata 

java,ja 

as  mnch. 

tavata 

tavata 

too,  to, 

so  much. 

Dham.  22,  68.  ) 

Mriohh.  11.     \ 
Var.  iv.  12. 

hhadram 

(ihadram,    \ 
hhaddam     ] 

thaddam 

good. 

Cloiigh,  40.       / 
Br.  234,  267.    1 

duJcari 

aulcari 

auart 

a  BOW. 

iukara 

suhara 

suyara,auara 

a  hoar. 

Clough,  7.  Var.\ 
ii.  27.  V.  26,  27./ 

madhu 

madhu 

mahu 

honey. 

Dham.  36.       ) 

Prabodha.  68.  } 

aukhcm 

lukham 

auham 

happiness. 

Pr.  38,  40.       ) 

Clough,  37.Var./ 
ii.  27.  Br.  166. 

aabha 

aabha 

aahd 

an  assembly. 

gathS, 

gatha 

gaha 

a  Terse. 

Clough,  42.  and  f 
Var.  T.  32.        { 

mats 

mats 

mad 

mother(nom.) 

niataram 

mataram 

maam 

mother  (aco.) 

Rasa.  22.  Clou.l 
45.  Var.  u.  27.  f 

mukham 

mukham 

muham 

face. 

^^  I  cannot  say  whether  the  Prakrit  form  of  this  word  is  aamadhi  or  aamahi,  or 
any  third  form  different  from  either. 


OP  GATHA,  PALI  ANP  PBAKRIT  WORDS. 


96 


RBrBBENOEg. 

,    S^UirSEKIT. 

c)Ii;ha. 

W.I. 

pbSe^iti. 

ENQLIBH. 

Burn.  &  Las8.  j 
Var.  ii-.  2.         j 

loko 
gajo 

loo 
goo 

world, 
elephant. 

rajatam. 

r<yatcm 

raadam 

silver. 

Ditto,  Var.  i.  27. 

kritrnn. 

katam 

kaam 

done. 

Ditto,  Var.  iii.) 
58.                  / 

trailoJcyam 

telokkam 

telloam- 

Vthe  three 
1  ■worlds. 

Ditto,  Var.  ii.2.| 

jhiam 

jtvam 
vachanam 

jTam 
vaanam 

life, 
word. 

Do.,Var.ii.2, 46. 

dwasal^ 

divaso 

divaho,  diajpo 

day. 

Ditto,,Var.,i,  41. 

yauvanam. 

yobbanam 

jopvanam 

youth. 

Mahavanso,    p.) 
xxyiMrich.'4i4.| 

samsleriiam 

sakkatam 

sakkadam 

Sanskrit. 

MahaTanso,?07) 
Var.  i,  20.,        / 

•pustakam 

potthakam 

potthao 

book. 

Rasa.  40..  Pr.  i 
97.  Br.  14S.      1 

bh0gin%. 

bhagitii 

vahini 
bahini,bhdim 

sister. 

Mahav.  25,Q>,     \ 
Var  iii.  26,        / 

gardabhsh 

gadrabho 

gad^aho 

ass. 

Rasa.  32;           \ 

Var.  i.  20.        / 

:  Rasa.  33.  Mfkh. 

muMS 

mutta 

motto. 

pearl. 

) 

duSraa 

) 

;    16,.  43,  44,  60. 

>  dvara, 

dvara          < 

dUvaraf^ 

}  door. 

Br.  35,  221. 

) 

duvara 

) 

Br.  130,.  284. 

i51chi 

sakht 

laht 

a  tree. 

Br.,  70. 

rekha. 

rekha 

rehS, 

a  line. 

Br.  113. 

aakht. 

jaSAT 

mhi^ 

female  friend 

Br.  48,  76,  156,1 
Pr.  36.               / 
Br.  93,  Pr.10,12. 

iikhU 

likhS 

tiha' 

crest.              ' 

iikhara. 

tikhara 

tihara 

Buimnit. 

Br.  73,  96, 156.1 
Pr.  38.              ) 
Br.52.Pr.  35,38. 

itkhara 

aekhara 

tehara 

crest. 

iikhmiia 

sikhanda 

sihan^ 

peacock's  tail 

Pr.  12,  41. 

ukm 

lekhB   ' 

leha 

a  writing. 

Pr.  36. 

nakha 

nakha 

naha 

nail. 

Pr,  36,  Br.  6^  1 
10,  92.              / 
Br.  221,  279. 

Ukhita 

Ukhita 

lihida 

written. 

parikhia 

parikha 

parihd 

ditch. 

Br.  287. 

mekhala 

mekhala 

mehala 

girdle. 

Br.  215,  226. 

meg/m 

megha 

meha. 

cloud. 

Br.  60. 

aangha 

sangha 

lamha 

assemhlage. 

Dham.  7,  6,6.   ) 

Var.  iu.  65.      5 

laghu 

lahu 

lahu 

Ught.. 

Mriehh.  107.    ) 

!  Br.71,l99.Pr.H. 

ratha 

ratha 

raha 

chariot. 

1  Pr.  36. 

athma 

athava 

ahavS 

or. 

Pr.   137,    Bii.  1 
1  242-,  297.           / 

mithum, 

mithxma 

mihutia 

pair. 

Br.  308. 

Mithila 

MithUa 

MihiB 

name  of  city. 

j  Br.  298. 

atithi 

atithi 

adihi 

guest. 

,  Br.  238. 

adhara 

adhara 

ahara 

lower  lip. 

1  Pr.  39,  Br.  168.1 
i  Br.  151,  153.    / 

vadhu 

vadhu 

vahu,  vadhu 

wife. 

:  Pr.  34,  39,Br.70. 

madhfira 

madhufra. 

mahura 

sweet. 

Br.  244,  CI.  7,61. 

madhu 

madhu 

mahu 

,  sweet. 

':  Br.  10. 

tlibudha 

vibudha 

vibuha 

wise  man. 

Br.  278. 

panchavidha 

panchavidha 

panchaviha 

flvefold. 

96 


COMPARATIVE  TABLE 


BEPEEBNOES. 

BANSKEIT. 

OATHA. 

PAii. 

FBAKBIT. 

ENQLISH. 

Br.  198,221,243. 

vividha 

vividha 

viviha 

various. 

Br.  238. 

vidhura 

vidhura 

vihura 

agitated. 

Br.  199. 

jaladhi 

jaladhi 

jalahi 

sea. 

Br.  86,  203  f. 

ritdhira 

nuihira 

ruhira 

Wood. 

Br.  250. 

dadhi 

dadhi 

dahi 

curds. 

Br.  228. 

vadhira 

iadhira 

bahira 

deaf. 

Br.  289. 

mahtdhara 

mahtdhara 

mahthara 

mountain. 

Br.  167. 

aradhana 

aradhana 

arcthana 

worship. 

Br.  72,  292.     J 
Clough  7,  24.  ( 

phala, 
saphala 

phala,          ) 
saphala       } 

hala,  sahala 

fruit, 
fruitful. 

Pr.  137. 

rabhasa 

rahasa 

speed, 
they  shine. 

Pr.  11. 

iobhcmte 

sobhanti 

sohanti 

Pr.  36. 

abhUashanti 

ahilasanti 

they  desire. 

Br.  123. 

labhate 

labhati 

lahdi 

he  receives. 

Br.    79,   166,  \ 
242,  259.          / 

Br.  219. 

vallabha 

vallabha 

vallaha 

heloved. 

upalaidham 

ualahium 

fto  under- 
\  stand. 

Br.  73,  93,  297. 

vrishahha  ■ 

usabha 

vusaha 

bull. 

Br.  202,  218. 

kshobha 

khobha 

khoha 

shaking, 
divided. 

Br.  224. 

vihhmrta 

mbhinna 

vihinna 

Br.  238. 

smabhi 

surabhi 

surahi 

fragrant. 

Br.  276. 

dundabhi 

dtmdubhi 

dunduhi 

drum. 

Br.  198. 

nabhi 

nabhi 

nahi 

navel. 

Br.  237. 

iaila 

sela 

'sella 

mountain. 

Br.  86,  146. 

vairi 

vefi 

veri 

enemy. 

Br.  221,  240. 

taila 

tela 

tella 

oU. 

Br.  264. 

daha 

daha,  daha 

daha 

burning. 

Pr.  104. 

iuchi 

suchi 

am 

needle. 

Br.  243. 

tucMta 

suchita 

auida 

indicated. 

Br.  217  f. 

chhwrika 

ehhurika 

ehhuria 

knife. 

Br.  160,  155. 

hridaya 

hadaya 

hiaa 

heart. 

Br.  238. 

padayoli 

padesu 

paeaa 

at  the  feet. 

Br.  236. 

dhuma 

dhuma 

dhusa 

smoke. 

Br.  199. 

padHtilcatya 

paikaasa 

footman  (gen.) 

Br.  246,  261. 

mitdgara 

muggara 

mogara 

maUet. 

Pr.  44. 

kubja 

khujja 

khtfjff'a 

bent. 

Br.  125. 

dosha 

sosa 

sosa 

drying  up. 

Br.  50. 
Var.  iii.  62. 
Lv.  228. 

ghosha 
mlana,  glana 

gilana 

ghosa 
milata,  gilana 

ghoaa 
milana 

noise, 
/withered, 
(wearied. 

Var.  iii.  62.       \ 
Lt.  269.           / 

klanta 

kilanta 

kilanta 

kilanta 

wearied. 

Var.  iii,  62. 
LT.61,60f,  188. 

hlesa 

kilesa 

kilesa 

kilesa 

trouble. 

Dh.  60.  Pr.  41. 

meha 

sneha,  tineha 

sineha 

afiFection. 

Br.  36,  122,  278. 

CI.  39.  Pr.  12.  \ 
Br.  129,  176  f.  , 

irx 

airi 

siri 

siri 

splendour. 

Dham.  44. 

hrl 

hiri 

hiri 

hirJ 

shame. 

Pr.12.Var.iii.62. 

harsha 

harasa,  hariaa 

joy- 

Pr.  113,114,238. 

) 

sleep. 

LalitaTistara,65, 

}  avapna 

swpina 

supina,  soppa 

sivina 

236,  239,  399. 

) 

Pr.  44,  48. 

murkha 

murukha 

fool. 

Pr.  35. 

vismrita 

vistimarida 

forgotten. 

OP  GATHA,  PALI  AND  PEAKRIT  WORDS. 


97 


KBFBBENOES. 

SANSKRIT. 

QATHA. 

PALI. 

PRAKRIT. 

ENGLISH. 

Br.  163,  278. 

\smarana 
[amritva 

twnariya 

sumarana 
sumaria 

recollection, 
having  recol- 
lected. 

Br.  198. 

ut&arsha 

ukkamta 

ukkarisa 

eminence. 

Br.  246. 

karshanti 

kaddhanti 

karisanti 

they  draw. 

Br.  20, 126,  276. 

vanha 

vussa 

varisa 

rain. 

Br.  210. 

varshitum 

vasaitum 

varisiditm 

to  rain. 

Br.  296. 

varshartuh 

vasaratto 

rainy  season. 

Br.  144.  Lt.  198. 

bharya,        ] 
naryah         j 

mriya 

bhariya       \ 
rmriya         ] 

bharia 

wife,  of  a 
woman. 

Br.  310. 

S'atruffhna 

SattuJiana 

proper  name. 

CI.  8.  Lt.  56,    \ 
92,132,181,188  j 

ratna 

ratana 

ratana 

gem. 

Clough,  46,  51.\ 
Ly.  167.            j 

padma 

padwma 

padtema 

lotus. 

Mrichh.  30. 

grihana 

ganha 

genha 

take  thou. 

Pr.  37,  87.        \ 
Br.  236.            / 

parihritya 

pariharitva 

pariharia    ' 

having  re- 
,  moved. 

Pr.  134. 

angikritya 

angikaria 

(having  as- 
\  sented. 

Pr.  64. 

militva 

milia 

having  met. 

Br.  216. 

samuttirya  \ 
uttirya        j 

uttariiva 

samuttaritva 
{uttariiva 

aamottlria 

shaving 
j  crossed. 

Pr.  84. 

uttaria 

Lv.  438. 

parahatya 

parahania 

fhaving 
\  smitten. 

Br.  87. 

chintayitva 

ehintiya 

(cintetva,      ) 
(eintiya        J 

chintia 

(having 
(  reflected. 

Br.  87. 

ttmuandhaya 

anuaandhia 

(having 
\  ascertained, 
fhaving 
\  despised. 

Br.  236. 

avamatya 

1 

mamanetva 

avamaniya 

(causal) 

>  ODamama 

Br.  7,  261. 

tttihramya 

(atikkamitva 
\atikkamma  ; 

adikkamia 

fhaving 
\  attacked. 

Br.  241. 

utpatya 

uppaieiva 

uppadia 

(having 
\  rooted  up. 

Br.  96. 

mhyafe 

juchohate 
\i>uchehati 

uehehadi 

it  is  said. 

Br.  9. 

varnyate 

vanmyati 

vanniadi 

it  is  related. 

Br.  6. 

pathyate 

pathtyati 

padhladi 

it  is  read. 

/ 

uttlryate 

uttartgati 

uttarla'i 

it  is  crossed. 

Br.  229.           1 

vibodhyate' 

vivokiai 

(it  is  nnder- 
\  stood. 

( 

nimajyate 

mimajjicH 

it  is  sunk. 

Br.  113. 

landhtyate 

tandhiyati 

aandhijjat 

it  is  joined 

Br.  120. 

vijnapyate 

vinnapiyati 

vinnamadi 

it  is  informed. 

Br.  35. 

vistaryate 

vitthariyati 

vittharai 

it  is  extended. 

Pr.  44. 

hhajyate 

bhanJTadi 

it  is  broken, 
/let  them  be 
\  placed. 

Br.  259. 

nvveiyantdm 

nivesiyantu 

niveatantu 

Br.  22,  36,  121. 
Br.  263. 

(vijnapayami 

\vijnSpayati 

puryatnana 

vinnapemi 
vinnapeti 
puramana 

vinnavemi 
vinnavedi 
purijfamana 

I  inform, 
he  informs, 
being  filled. 

Br.  241,  263. 

dahyamana 

dayhamana 

dahijjanta 

being  burned 

Br.  136. 

ramantya 

(ramantya, 
\ramaniyya 

ramanijja 

pleasant. 

98 


eOMPABATIVEi  TABLE; 


The 
it  will   he 
Sanskrit 


Table  No.  VII. 

Table  contams  a  list  of  verbs  a, 
observed  that  the  Psli  forms  general 
the  Prakrit  ones  do. 


■es,  Vi 
less  from 


RErEEEN.CEES. 

SANSKRITV 

gathI. 

Pill. 

PEAKRir, 

KNRLISH. 

B.  &  Las.  125.\ 
Del.  24.  Br.lOlJ 

irimmiah 

aunoma 

iaimamha      \ 
\simimo         ] 

we  hear. 

B.  &  Las.  123. 

•  irirjoahi 

sunasi,  ttmoai 

.     .     . 

thou  hearest. 

CI.  109.  Del.  24. 

srinoti 

sti^ti 

iumadi 

he  hears, 

B.  &  Las,  125.1 
Delius,  24.,        ] 

srinotu 

(mndtu, 
[au^Dtu, 

sunadu 

Ipt  him  hear. 

B.  &  Lass.  121. 
Tax.  vii.  16i  17. 
Cowell,  XXX-.     :i 
Delins,  24. 

arosJeymmi 
dvaiM/ati. 

iruniah/yi 

■  a'^sAyAtt 

>  aoaaami     J 

SQchehham, 

sochchhiaaam, 

sumssam 

)  I,  he,  -will 
j     hear. 

B.  &  Lass.  131.\ 
DeUus,  24.        / 

srufah 

irtitvS,     ' 

suto 

sudo 

heard. 

Dham.  15, 19.  \ 

irutya, 

t  sutvS,        \ 
1  autmna,    > 
( sunitva     ) 

Easa.  29.  Del.  / 
4.  Var.  IT.  23. 

lt.  65f:&c.  ; 

s'rutva        < 

sunitya,      _ 
aunitva,     f 
a'rmitva, 

sunia,  sd,i(n 

having  heard. 

a'mnitva 

Easa.l7.,Del.24. 

irotum 

aotum 

sunidum 

to  hear. 

Pr.  14,  28. 
Br.  200,  234, 

sru!/at» 

srinute 

suyati 

jsuniadi.       \ 
[sunM          j 

he  is  heard. 

284,  287'. 

,  irHymte 

sravmti 

suyanti 

smijianti 

they  are  heard 

Br.  122. 

sruyantSm 

suyantu 

suniadu 

let  them  be 
heard.. 

Br.  179. 

■  s'ruyate 

J 

nisimi 

he  is  heard. 

Br.  202. 

s'rut/amana 

suyamana 

stmijfmta 

being  heard. 

Br.  163. 

iruyamma 

siivantT 

being  heard 
(fem.) 

Br.  280. 

iravayatu 

savetu 

sundvedu 

(let  him  cause 
to  hear. 

Br.  166. 

imrHshana 

auaausa 

suaausana 

obedience. 

B.  &  Las..  125.\ 
Delius,  17. 

dadami 

Idadami,. 
\dadamt 

dadami, 
demi,  dadami 

demi 

I  give. 

Dham.  44.    Cl.\ 
134,135.  Del.l7) 

dadati 

(dadati,  deti 
{deyjati 

dedi,  dei 

he  gives. 

B..  &  Las.  127. 

aelat. 

adasi,  add, 

%    .    I 

he  gav6. 

B.  &  Lass,  121. ) 

\ 

dakam,. 
,da,iasam 

I  will  give. 

Var.  -rii.  16.     \ 
Del.  17.          ) 

daayami 

dassami 

;  01.25.  Del.  17. 

dadai 

(dadam,  da-  \ 
\danto,  dento  j 

dmtQ 

giving^ 

\  Dh.  43.  Br,  179. 

dadati) 

dentaasa 

.  of  one  gjving. 

iDkam.  44.Tar.\ 
Tiii.  62.            ] 

dattam 

dinnam 

d4nnam 

given. 

Br.  22, 153i218, 

)                  ( 

deH,  dachihi 

) 

277.  Lv.  89, 108, 

\dehi 

dadahi. 

\dehi 

dejii,  dejja 

give  thou. 

215,  270. 

)                    1  dadSki       1  ) 

' 

OF  GATHA,  PALI  AND  PBAEIRIT  "WORDS. 


99 


KErEKENOES., 

SANSKRIT. 

OATHA. 

PALI.            1      PBAKBJT.; 

ENCaiSH. 

Br.  67,  75,      i 

dtyutaMj 

eCtyatu 

(diyatu,       ) 
\diyyatu       ] 

dijjachi 

let  it  be  grven 

137.               j 

dHyoMtSm 

(diyantu,      \ 
[diyyantu     ) 

dijjantm 

let  them  be 
giTen. 

Delius,  17. 

datva 

Ideti,  dadia, 
(dadiyoi 

datva 

data,  de'ia, 
dauna 

haTing  giTen 

Basa.  34. 

Lt.  293.  Dh.     ) 

hha/oitvm 

(bhavitum,  ) 
(hotum         ) 

bhmidum 

to  bei 

42.  B.  &  Las.  1 

hhama, 

hhohi 

bhava,  hohi 

hohi,  hen 

be  (thou). 

122.  Del.  26.    ) 

B.  &  Las.  161. 

:  hjumatu 

hotu,  bhavatu 

bhodu,  hoda 

i  let  him  b& 

Dham.  44,  67. ) 
CI.,  8,  102. 
Var.  viii.  3. 

hhmati 

[bhati,  ' 
\bhavi 

bfkivati, 
hoti            J 

bhodi,  hodi, 
ho'ijpabha/sOfi 
(he  over- 
comes). 

>  he  becomes. 

Dham.  64,  61.  \ 
B.  &  Las.  86.    j 

hhmamti 

bhonti 

Vbhcmanti,     \ 
\honti           1 

bhonti,  hoati 

they  are. 

Easa.  22. 

prakhmmni 

prabhami 

kpabhavami, 
\pahomi 

pabhmami 
pabhmiami 

r  OTercome. 

Clough,  103'.- 

hkuyatoM 

bhuyalam 

.     .     » 

let  it  be  (pas- 

B.  &  Lass.  130. 

Sha/oim 

hontOjbhmam 
bhmanto 

J  "    •     ■ 

being,  t^""-) 

Dh.ll,  32.Del.l 
26.  Var.  Tiii.  2.) 

ihutah 

bhuto 

bhudo^  hua 

been. 

Easa.15.Del.26. 

hhutva 

(bhavm,     \ 
\bhavitva  J 

hutm 

bhavia 

having  been. 

Cl.15.Var.7ii.23 

ahhmat 

aihmi 

huvta. 

he -was. 

B.&Las.l27.Var. 
vii.  24.  Lt.  187. 

abhut 

abhusM 

akesi^  ahu 

hohia. 

he  -was. 

B.  &  Lass.  127.| 

abhman 
aathat 

ababhmcm 

ahosum 
atthasi 

•    •    • 

th&y  were, 
he  stood. 

B.  &  Lass.  129. 

sthatum 

thStmn 

.     .    . 

to  stand. 

Dh.60.  CI.  25.  ) 
Del.l9.B.&L. 
125.Var.Ti.63. ) 

tishthcmti 

titthanti 

titthanti, 
ohitthanU 

they  stand. 

Br.  219.  Lt.261. 

bhmishyami 

bheshyi 

hhmissami 

ihavissam 

I  shall  be. 

Br.  149,  179.    ) 
Pr.  140,  142.    } 
Lt.62,127,238  ) 

bhmiahyati 

(bheshyati 
\bhavi 

bhmissati 
hessati 

bha/vissudi  \ 
havissadi    ) 

he  shall  be. 

Br.  20. 

pairibhava 

parihava 

excel  thou. 

:  Pr.  83,  140.     ( 
Br.  86,  269.      | 

paribhuta 

paribhuta 

parihuda 

excelled. 

prabhuta 

pahuta 

pabhUda 

strong. 

anubhutd 

anubhuda 

perceived. 

Br.  169.  Lt.2,91. 

uttishtha 

uttU 

utthaha 

aththehi 

riae  thou. 

Lt.  396,  406, 

uftha^a 

jutthi, 
(utthihitm 

utthaya 
utthahitva 

having  riseat. 

Lt.  355. 

uttishthet 

utthihet 

utthaAeyya 

he  may  rise. 

Lt.  298. 

sthitm 

sthfhiya 

thatva 

haTing  stood. 

Dham.  31.  Mri.\ 
80. Var. Tiii.  69.J 

paiyati 

(passati, 
[dichchhati 

paisadi, 
dekhadi, 
puladi,  .etc. 

1  he  sees. 

Dham.  6.  101. 

prapnoti 

(pappoti, 
Xpapwmti 

pavidi 

he  obtains. 

Easa.  22. 

prapnmanti 

(papponti, 
\  vapmanti    . 

•    ■    • 

they  obtain. 

100 


COMPARATIVE  TABLE 


BEPEKENCES. 


i 


76. 


Dham.  24, 
Del.  62. 
Easa.  15,  23,401 
Delius,  62.        J 

Dham.l2.Del.l5 

Dham.  3,  50.  1 
B.  &  Las.  129.  j 

Br.    (P)  I 

Dham.  6,11,41.\ 
Delius,  29.        / 
Dham.  40.  Del.i 
70.  Var.xii.  10.) 
Br.  58,  250,  218. 
Dh.  27,60.  Ma.l. 
Del.  79.  Br.  245. 
Br.  243,  287,     / 
305.  Pr.  13,  36.\ 
Br.  150. 
Br.  65. 
Br.  6. 
Delius,  79. 
Br.  297. 

Dh.  62.  Del.  62. 

Basa.  22.  Del.l8. 

Dh.  17.  Lv.  284. 

Dham.  32. 

Dh.  50.  Del.  65. 
Dham.  8,  9.  ) 
Var.  Tiii.  65.  J 
Basa.  30.  Del.69. 

Dham.58.Del.26 

Dham.  58.        { 

Dham.  24,  67.  1 
Del.67.  Br.l23.J 
Dham.  63.  B.  &] 
Las.  137.  J 

Dham.61.Del.86. 

Dham.  60.  Yar.l 
Tiii.  51.  / 

Dham.  71,  Cow. 
App.  Sutra  24. 
p.  99. 

B.  &  Las.  86. 
Delius,  63. 
Br.  113. 

Br.  117. 


SANBKBIT. 


prapto  'si 

prapya 

vijanSti 

jnatm 

Jnatum 
jnaymnana 

jagratah 


(gachehh- \ 
\  itva        ] 


Scfyisht 


drishtva 


mritva 
uddtya 

hatvS 

pttffa 

hitva 

jitva 

ehhitva 

viditva 

laddhea, 

abMbhuya 


lathate 

asmi 

santi 


hanitva 

pitva 
jahitva 

ehhinitva 


vijaMtva, 
mjaJiya 


\papto  SI, 
[patio 

(patva,  \ 

XpSptmitva    j 

vijanati 

(natva,  \ 

\Janitva        ) 

jamttm,natim 

nayamana 

jagarato 


gata 

(disva,  dis- 
\vana,passitva 


dissati 


maritva 


f 

(hanitva 
ipibitm,  pltva 
\pieitva 
Mtv3,jahitva 

j'etvS,  jinitva 

chhetva 

viditva 

hamdhitva 


pafiaya,  ) 
paJaMiva  j 
Uabhate 
\labhati 

asmi, 
santi 


pabido, 
patto 

samapia      < 

ranadi,  janO' 
di,  vianddi 

jania 


(agaehhia, 
Xgadia,  gadua 


idatthwna 
dtsanti 


dJsamana 


damsdissadi 

mariUna 

uddiuna 


ia,  etc. 
\pibia,paiina 


vettuna 


hrumi 

kathessami 

hathemi 

hatheti 


lahade, 
lahadi,  laha  'i 

mhi 

(santi,  \ 

\achchha/nti  ] 

padanti 

bollSmi  (.») 

(kadhdissam 
\kahissam 
Mdhemi 

hahaiva 


ohtained. 

having  obtain- 
ed: finished. 

knows. 

/having 
\  known. 

to  know. 

being  known 
/waking 
(  (genitive.) 

ihaving  gone. 

gone. 

having  seen. 

they  are  seen, 
he  IS  seen, 
.being  seen, 
sight. 

he  will  show, 
having  died, 
having  flown 

having  killed 

having  drunk 

having  left, 
/having  con- 
(  quered. 

having  out. 
(having 
\  known, 
having  bound, 
(having  over- 
\  Gome. 

having  left, 
the  receives. 
I  am, 
they  are. 
they  fall. 

I  speak. 

[I  will  say. 


he  says  as  it 
were. 


OP  GATHA,  PALI  AND  PEAKlttIT  'WORDS. 


101 


BEFEBENCEB. 

SANSKRIT. 

OATBA. 

FALL 

rslKnvT. 

BNOLISH. 

Br.  53,  164,      » 
218.  Pr.  123.    / 

kttthaya 

katheM       1 

kadheau,      \ 
kaheau,        \ 
kdhehi        ) 

say  thon. 

Pr.  124. 

kathayishyat 

katheaaati 

kahiaaadi 

he  will  say. 

Br.  21S. 

kathyatam 

kahtddu 

let  it  be  said. 

Eas.  22.  Del.  63. 

kathayitwm 

kathetum 

kadkedum 

to  sajr. 
Tre  hTe. 

Dh.  36.  Del.  77. 

jivamah 

jimma 

JmmaJJvama 

Clough,  142. 

prichhmti  \ 
priehhyate  J 

puchehhanti 

(puchhanti, 
Xpuehchhladi 

Uhey  ask ;  it 
/  is  asked. 

Dham.  43.  Var. 
Tiii.  27. 

khadati 

(khSyati,       \ 
\kliSdati        : 

kha'i 

he  eats. 

C1.9.Var.Tii.25. 

Ssit 

aai 

aai 

heTj-as. 

Br.  289. 

aaan 

aatm 

aai 

they  were, 
he  IS. 

Dham.  43,  67. 

aati 

atthi 

atti,  achchhi 

Dham.  15. 

ayat 

aiya,  aaaa 

he  may  be. 

Dham.  5. 

rakahati 

rakkhati 

rakkhadi 

he  keeps. 

Dham.  51,  52,  \ 
63.  Var.  viii.48./ 

bitdhyate 

hujjhati 

bvjjhdi 

(he  under- 
(  stands. 

Dham.40.  &Var. 

1  krudhyet 

kujjheya 

kujjh  (root) 

flet  him  he 
V  angry, 
let  him  giTe. 

Dham.  40.              dadyat 

dajja 

•    •    . 

Dham.  101.  Cl.\    ._„„„,,. 
145.  Del.  32.  1    "^''*' 

(atimaraii, 
\aarati 

aumaredi 

he  recollects. 

Pr.  12,  35.  Br.  / 
57,  86,  92.         \ 

varte 

vattami 

I  am. 

vartate 

vattati 

vattadi 

he  is. 

Br.  6,  247. 

vardhamana 
vardhita 

vaddhamana 

Vttdhdhanta 

increasing. 

vaddhita 

badhdhida 

increased. 

Dham.  13.  Var.l 
Tiii.  44.              j 

varddhate 

vaddhati 

vaddhdi 

he  increases. 

Pr.  133. 

jayatu 

jayatu,  Jetu 

jedu 

flet  him  con- 
\  quer. 
he  conquers. 

Dh.64.  Del.  21. 

jayati 

j'inati,  jeti 

jaadi,  jitwdi 

Clough,  5,110.  ) 

( 

karomi, 

1 

Dham.  64.       \ 

karomi 

kiiriMni 

karomi        { 

karemi, 

J    I  do. 

Del.  27,  28.     ) 

., 

( 

kalemi 

) 

Dham.  1,  7,  63.  / 
CI.  100.Del.28.( 

km-oti, 

karoti 

karedi,  karei, 
kundi 

) 

krinoU{vedic) 

}  he  does. 

Dham.9.  CI.  110 

kurute 

kurute 

... 

j 

CI.  110.  Br.  195. 

kunanti,  kri- 
nvanti  {vedic) 

karonti 

karonti, 
kubianti 

karenti, 
kunanti 

they  do. 

B.  &  Las.  182. 

kurmali 

karoma    \ 
karomo     ) 

karoma 

karemha, 
karamha 

we  do. 

B.  &  Laa.  127. 1 

Clough,  110.    } 

akarahtt 

akasi 

kahta 

he  did. 

Var.  Tiii.  17.   ) 

Clough,  110. 

altar  ahuh 

akaaiim 

... 

they  did. 

Delius,  28. 

kariahyati 

karisaati, 
kahati 

karisaadi 
kahii 

he  will  do. 

Var.  Tiii.  17.     1 
Dh.  28,  322.      / 

kariahyaai 

kahaai         ) 
kariaaaai     \ 

.     .     . 

thou  wilt  do. 

Var.  Tii.  16. 

kariahyami 

kariaaami 

kaham 

I  will  do. 

Dham.  10,  12, 
23,  39.  CI.  25. 
Delius,  28.        ( 

kwvan, 
kwvatah, 

kubbam, 
kubbato, 

karanto       j 

doing  (differ- 
ent cases  and 

Jkwvmtam, 
kurvantah 

kubbanam, 
karonta       I 

karento 

numbers   of) 
(pres.  part.) 

102 


GOMPAHATIVE  TABLE 


.fiSeSBENCEB.     ' 

«ANSSRIT. 

OATHA. 

TAM. 

SSAKRIT.  .  1 

■  : 

INGHSH. 

Dh.  42.  Del.  28. 

kitru 

kwvahi 

karohi,  kuru 

kareM,  kalehi 

.do  (imper.) 

Br.  69. 

htru,  krimi  \ 
{vedio)         ] 

kwna 

do  thou. 

■.Fr.  84. 

kwuslma  iti 

karesutti 

"do  thou," 
thus. 

do  ye. 

Br.  ,200,  168. 

kuruta,  kri- 
■mta  {vedio) 

' 

kunaha,        \ 
Icunadha      ] 

Br.  :20. 

kwrtwm 

'eattum,  katmn 

kadum 

to  do. 

Br.  142,  200.     ' 

kartmya 

[kattabba 
[katabba 

kadama,      1 
■kaawa        ] 

to  he  done. 

Br.  72,  149  f. 

krita 

kata 

kida,  kira 

done. 

Br.  228. 

kriyaU 

kariyati,      \ 
Jeayyati       j 

klrdi 

it  is  done. 

Br.  7,  224. 

hriyatam 

kariadM,       \ 
kirail           ] 

let  it  he  done 

Br.  221. 

pratikwuta, 
mmikuruta 

pafikarotha 

padikare%a, 

oppose  ye. 

.     .     • 

samikmreha 

lend  ye. 

Br.  86,  236.Pr.\ 
47  f.  Olough,  3.) 

grihita 

Igahita,         | 
Xgahtta          ) 

gahia,  gahida 

taken. 

Pr.  46. 

grahltum 

ganhituin 

gahldutn 

to  take. 

Br.  76. 

graliya 

gayha 

gejjha 

to  he  taken. 

Clough,  16. 

akurma 

akaramhaae 

we  have  done. 

Dh.  24.  Del.  28. 
Var.xii.lO,iT.23. 

|*r*5       j 

kwitya, 
kariya,     ■ 
karitva 

katva, 
karitva 

kadua,kadua 
kaUna 

jhaving  done. 

Dham.  28. 

adhyagat  (?) 

ajjhaga 

.     . 

arrived. 

Dham.  39.        / 
Del.  90.            \ 

pratigrih-    \ 
nanli         j 

patiganhanti 

padigenhanti 

they  receive. 

Dh.  420.  (com.) 

kalpaycm 

kappmto 

kappento  {?) 

cutting. 

Dham.  101. 

daknoti 

sakkUam 

sakkunati 
mkkoti 

(he  can ; 
tpossihle. 

Rasa.  22.  Cow.\ 
171,  n.  Del.  36. 

saknomi 

sakkomi      \ 
\sakkunomi  j 

eakkanomi 

I  can. 

Clongh,  129.    ■ 
Var.  Tiii.  50. 

mridnati 

maddati 

maladi 

he  treads. 

Eas.  22.  Del.  20. 

snatum 

nah&yitim 

nahadum 

to  hathe. 
/  let  him  re- 

Dham.  SO.        \ 
Vikr.  116. 

aradhayet 

aradhaye 

arahana 

J  verence : 
j  reverencing 
'  (noun), 
he  shines. 

Pr.  10,12. 

rajate 

rehadi 

Br.  22. 

sandadAaii 

(sandadhasi, ' 
\sandahisi 

sandhihisi 

thou  appliest 

Br.  178. 

pathishyami 

pathissami 

padhismm 

I  shall  read. 

Br.  35,  52,  157,/ 
179.                  \ 

manye 

manne 

manne 

I  think. 

mttnyadhvam 

mannathu 

manmdha 

think  ye. 

Br.  178. 

mapsyami 

supinissami 

suvissam 

I  shall  «leep. 

Br.  122. 

stmnitjf 

thunimo 

we  praise. 

Br.  246. 

ghmmti 

hcmanti 

hananti 

they  strike. 

Br.  27. 

pratighnantu 

patihanantu 

padihanantu 

fmay  they 
(  avert. 

• 

vilokaycm. 

vilohayam 

ptilovanto, 

looking. 

Pr.  11  ff,  41, 
lis,  116. 

vihkaya, 

(vilokaya, 
\vilokeM 

pulovehi,     ' 
puloesu, 

look(irapera). 

Br.  76. 

vUokayamah 

imhkayama, 
\vilokema 

\puloamha, 

we  look. 

OT  GATH4,  TAEI  AND  P&AKRlT  WOEDS. 


103 


KEFHRHNCE8. 

SAIfSKBIT. 

GATHA. 

PALI. 

PRAKRIT. 

ENGLISH. 

Pr.llff,41,113,( 
lis.  Br.  76. 

analokayanfi 

amalokend 

tipuloamtt 

net  looking. 

vilokayiahye 

vilokaymam 

pulovdissam 

I  shall  look. 

r 

haddhita     ) 
akaddhita  j 

kaththia,    \ 

Br.  113,  .179. 
199,  202,  216,- 
245,  261. 

krishta, 
cikrishta 

irishymndna 

kattia, 
rikaththia,   I 
akaththida  ) 
kafhthijjamta, 

drawn, 
heing  drawn. 

karshana 

haddhema     '■ 

kadhdhana    ■ 

'drawing. 

Br.  49.  Pr.  17. 

apasarati,'^^^  ^ 

osaradi, 

he  departs. 

apasaranti 

osaraMi\ai>a-) 

osaranti 

they  depart. 

/ 

avataranti, 

otaraiiti 

odaranti,       i 

ithey  descend. 

Br.  10, 50,127. 

avatara, 
avatirya 

otara,  avatara 

odd-Tdf 
otehharia  p 

descent, 
(having  de- 
\  scended. 

Br.  174. 

hdryase 

hlrasi         j 

thou  art 
snatched  away 

Br.  176. 

hirtyate 

ktradi 

(he  ds  cele- 
\  brated. 

manifested. 

Br.  7,  178. 

Ipratyakshi-  . 
\  krita 

paehehakkhi- 
kata 

pacTiehakkht- 
kida 

Br.  473. 

parityaja 

parichehajassu 
parichchaja 

parittaam 

abandon  thou. 

"5  In  pp.  38,  39,  126,  146,  of  the  PrasannaraghaTa,  and  in  pp.  76  and  162  of  the 
Balaramayana,  however,  we  find  the  forms  avagadamhi  {avagatd  'smt),  masara,  avatinna 
{(Wattrnd),  avatarai  [avatarati),  and  avadSrasaa  (avatarasya). 


104  DIALECTS  OF  THE  ROCK  AND  PILLAR 

Sect.  VI. — The  Dialects  of  (he  Roch  and  Pillar  Inscriptions  ofAioha. 

Our  knowledge  of  the  vernacular  languages  of  India  in  the  centuries 
immediately  preceding  the  Christian  era  is  not,  however,  exclusively 
derived  from  the  Pali  books  of  Ceylon.  Certain  inscriptions,  dating 
from  the  second  or  third  century  B.C.,  contaLoing  edicts  of  king 
PriyadarsT  or  A^oka™  (whose  name  has  been  already  mentioned 
above,  p.  63,  f.),  and  written  in  a  corrupt  Sanskrit,  apparently  the 
vernacular  speech  of  that  period,  are  still  extant  engraved  on  pUlars 
and  rocks  in  dififerent  parts  of  India. 

I  borrow  the  following  particulars  regarding  them  from  the  summary 
given  by  Lassen  (Ind.  Alt.,  ii.  215,  ff.)."'  The  inscriptions  are  en- 
graved partly  upon  pillars,  partly  on  rooks.  The  pillars  are  at  DehU, 
Allahabad,  Mathiah,  and  Eadhia.  The  inscriptions  on  these  four 
pillars  are  partly  uniform,  while  those  of  Dehli  and  Allahabad  have 
additions  peculiar  to  themselves.  The  rock  inscriptions  are:  Istly, 
those  at  G-imar,  in  Guzerat,  divided  into  fourteen  compartments; 
2ndly,  those  at  DhauU,  in  Orissa,  which  for  the  most  part  agree  in 
purport  with  those  at  Girnar,  though  the  dialect  is  different;  and 
3rdly,  those  at  Kapur  di  Giri,  near  Peshawar,  which  coincide  in 
purport,  though  they  often  differ  in  expression,  and  in  their  greater 
or  less  diffuseness,  from  the  Gimar  inscriptions.  Besides  these,  Asoka 
appears  to  have  caused  other  similar  edicts  to  be  promulgated  in  the 
same  way.  Accordingly  another  inscription  has  been  discovered  at 
Bhabra,  not  far  from  Jaypur,  which  contains  a  fragment  of  an  address 
to  the  Buddhist  synod  in  Magadha. 

These  inscriptions  were  mostly  discovered  about  thirty  years  ago, 
and  the  great  merit  of  having  first  (iu  1837  and  1838)  deciphered 
and  translated  by  far  the  larger  portion  of  them  belongs  to  the  late 
Mr.  James  Prinsep.  His  translations  were  subsequently  revised  by 
Prof.  H.  H.  "Wilson,  in  an  article  in  the  Journal  of  the  Royal  Asiatic 

128  Professor  "Wilson  thinks  it  extremely  uncertain  -whether  Piyadasi  can  be 
identified  with  As'oka,  and  inclines  to  the  conclusion  that  the  date  of  the  inscriptions 
is  some  period  subsequent  to  205  b.o.  (Joum.  Royal  As.  Soc,  vol.  xU.  pp.  243-251 ; 
Tol.  xTi.  p.  357.)  Professor  Miiller,  in  his  "Ancient  Sanskrit  Literature,"  p.  620, 
speaks  incidentally,  but  without  any  hesitation,  of  the  inscriptions  as  being  those  of 
Afoka,  and  as  dating  from  the  third  century  b.o.  See  also  the  other  authorities 
cited  in  the  text  a  little  further  on. 

"'  See  also  Prinsep's  Indian  Antiquities,  by  E.  Thomas,  i.  233,  ii.  14. 


INSCEIPTIONS  OF  AS'OKA.  105 

Society  for  1849  (vol.  xii.,  part  i.,  pp.  153-251):  and  a  portion  of 
them  were  a  third  time  examined  by  M.  Burnouf  in  the  Appendix 
to , his  translation  of  the  Lotus  de  la  Bonne  Loi,  pp.  652-781."'  Prof. 
"Wilson  has  concluded  his  notice  of  the  subject  in  a  further  paper  on 
the  Bhabra  inscription,  in  the  Journ.  Eoyal  As.  Soc,  vol.  xvi.,  part 
ii.,  pp.  367-367.  The  importance  of  these  inscriptions,  as  throwing 
light  on  the  languages  of  India  in  the  third  century  b  c,  is  also 
expressly  recognized  by  Prof.  Lassen  (Ind.  Alterthumsk.,  vol.  ii.) 
in  passages  which  will  be  quoted  below ;  by  Weber  in  his  review  of 
the  Lotus  de  la  Bonne  Loi  (Ind.  Stud.,  iii.  pp.  166-173),  in  the 
Preface  to  his  Malavika  and  Agnimitra,  p.  xxxii.,  and  in  his  Indische 
Literaturgeschichte,  p.  170;  and  by  Benfey,  in  his  Article  Indien, 
in  Ersch  and  Gruber's  Encyclopsedia,  pp.  194  and  250. 

To  give  the  reader  an  idea  of  the  nature  of  these  edicts,  as  well  as 
of  the  language  in  which  they  are  composed,  I  shall  quote  the  eleventh, 
which  is  short  and  tolerably  clear,  according  to  the  Girnar  version,  to- 
gether with  the  translation  (rendered  into  English)  of  M.  Burnouf 
(Lotus,  App.,  X.  p.  736 ;  Wilson,  p.  212) :  devdnam  piyo  Piyadasi 
raja  evam  aha  nasti  etaruam  danam  yarisam  dhamma-danam  dhamma- 
gamstavo  va  dhamma-samvibhago  va  dhamma-sambandho  va  \  tata  idam 
hhwoati  dasa-lhatakamhi  samnipati-patl  matwri  pitwri  sadhu  sususa  mita- 
■sastufa-ndtikdnam  hahmana-samandna'ih  sddhu  danam  pdndnam  ana- 
rambho  sddhu  etam  vatavyam  pita  va  putena  va  Wtdtd  va  mita-sastuta- 
natihena  va  dva  pativesiyehi  idam  sddhu  idam  katavyam  |  so  tdthd  kitru 
«[Afl]  loka  cha  sadrddho  hoti  parata  cha  anantam  pumnam  bhavati  tena 
dhammaddnena  \ 

"Piyadasi,  king  beloved  by  the  gods,  speaks  thus:  There  is  no 
gift  equal  to  the  gift  of  the  law,  or  to  the  praise  of  the  law,  or  to 

"'  In  an  obituary  notice  (probably  contributed  by  Professor  Wilson)  on  M.  Bur- 
nouf, in  the  Annual  Eeport  of  the  Eoyal  Asiatic  Society  for  1853,  p.  xiii.  (published 
in  part  i.  vol.  xv.  of  the  Society's  Journal),  the  following  remarks  are  made  on  this 
dissertation  :  "  Bringing  to  the  inquiry  a  knowledge  of  Pali  and  of  Buddhism,  the 
superiority  of  which  his  predecessors  would  be  the  first  to  acknowledge,  and  having 
the  advantage  of  their  preTious  speculations,  the  value  of  which  M.  Burnouf,  with 
his  never-failing  candour,  recognizes,  we  may  look  upon  his  researches  as  conclusive, 
and  feel  satisfied  that  they  have  eliminated  from  these  remains  of  antiquity  all  the 
information  they  are  capable  of  affording."  Prof.  Weber  also  in  his  review  of  the 
Lotus  de  la  Bonne  Loi  (in  the  Ind.  Stud.),  speaks  in  highly  laudatory  terms  of  the 
same  dissertation. 

VOL.  u.  8 


106  DIALECTS  OP  THE  ROCK  AND  PILLAR 

the  distribution  of  the  law,  or  to  union  in  the  law.  This  gift  is  thus 
exhibited :  Good  will  to  slaves  and  hired  servants,  and  obedience  to 
one's  father  and  mother  are  good  things:  liberality  to  friends,  ac- 
quaintances, and  relations,  Brahmans  and  Samanas,  is  a  good  thing : 
respect  for  the  life  of  creatures  is  a  good  thing;  this  is  what  ought 
to  be  said  by  a  father,  by  a  son,  by  a  brother,  by  a  friend,  by  an  ac- 
quaintance, by  a  relation,  and  even  by  simple  neighbours:  this  is 
good;  this  is  to  be  done.  He  who  acts  thus  is  honoured  in  this  world; 
and  for  the  world  to  come  an  infinite  merit  results  from  the  gift  of 
the  law." 

From  the  age  to  which  these  inscriptions  appear  to  belong,  we  might 
expect  that  their  language,  as  it  is  not  pure  Sanskrit,  would  coincide 
in  a  great  degree  with  the  Pali,  which,  as  we  have  already  seen,  re- 
presents what  we  may  suppose  to  have  been  the  spoken  language  of 
some  province  of  northern  India  about  the  same  period.  And  such 
proves  on  comparison  to  be  to  a  considerable  degree  the  case.  In  proof 
of  this  point  I  shall  first  proceed  to  quote  the  general  observations 
made  by  Professors  Wilson,  Lassen,  and  others,  on  the  subject  of  the 
languages  in  which  the  inscriptions  are  composed ;  and  then  supply 
a  comparative  table,  by  which  some  opinion  may  be  formed  of  the 
degree  in  which  they  coincide  with,  and  diverge  from,  the  Pali."' 

The  following  are  the  remarks  made  by  Professor  Wilson  (Journal 
of  the  Koyal  Asiatic  Society,  vol.  xii.,  pp.  236,  ff.)  on  the  language 
of  the  edicts : 

"The  language  itself  is  a  kind  of  Pali,  offering,  for  the  greatest 
portion  of  the  words,  forms  analogous  to  those  which  are  modelled 
hy  the  rules  of  the  Pali  grammar  still  in  use.  There  are,  however, 
many  differences,  some  of  which  arise  from  a  closer  adherence  to 
Sanskrit,  others  from  possible  local  peculiarities,  indicating  a  yet  un- 
settled state  of  the  language.  It  is  observed  by  Mr.  Prinsep,  when 
speaking  of  the  Lat  inscriptions,  '  The  language  differs  from  every 
existing  written  idiom,  and  is  as  it  were  intermediate  between  the 
Sanskrit  and  the  Pali.'     The  nouns  and  particles  in  general  foUow 

129  I  might  haye  been  in  a  position  to  treat  this  subject  in  a  more  satisfactory 
manner  than  I  can  now  hope  to  do  from  my  own  cursory  investigations,  had  I  been 
able  to  consult  the  Pali  Grammar,  with  appendices  on  the  dialects  of  Dhauli  and 
Girnar,  formerly  advertised  for  publication,  but  never  published,  by  Professor  Spiegel. 
(See  the  cover  of  his  Anecdota  Palica,  published  at  Leipzig,  in  1815.) 


INSCRIPTIONS  OF  AS'OKA  107 

the  Pali  structure ;  tlie  verbs  are  more  frequently  nearer  to  the 
Sanskrit  forms ;  but  in  neither,  any  more  than  in  grammatical  Pali, 
is  there  any  great  dissimilarity  from  Sanskrit.  It  is  curious  that  the 
Kapur  di  Giri  inscription  departs  less  from  the  Sanskrit  than  the 
others,  retaining  some  compound  consonants,  as  pr  in  priya,  instead 
of  piya ;  and  having  the  representatives  of  the  three  sibilants  of  the 
Devanagari  alphabet,  while  the  others,  as  in  Pali,  have  but  but  one 
sibilant : ''"  on  the  other  hand,  the  Kapur  di  Giri  inscription  omits  the 
vowels  to  a  much  greater  extent,  and  rarely  distinguishes  between  the 
long  and  short  vowels,  peculiarities  perhaps  not  unconnected  with 
the  Semitic  character  of  its  alphabet. 

"The  exact  determination  of  the  differences  and  agreements  of  the 
inscriptions  with  the  Pali  on  the  one  hand,  and  Sanskrit  on  the  other, 
would  require  a  laborious  analysis  of  the  whole,  and  would  be  scarcely 
worth  the  pains,  as  the  differences  from  either  would,  no  doubt,  prove 
to  be  comparatively  few  and  unimportant,  and  we  may  be  content  to 
consider  the  language  as  Pali,  not  yet  perfected  in  its  grammatical 
structure,  and  deviating  in  ho  important  respect  from  Sanskrit. 

"Pali  is  the  language  of  the  writings  of  the  Buddhists  of  Ava, 
Siam  and  Ceylon;  therefore  it  is  concluded  it  was  the  language  of 
the  Buddhists  of  Upper  India,  when  the  inscriptions  were  engraved, 
and  consequently  they  are  of  Buddhist  origin.  This,  however,  admits 
of  question;  for  although  the  Buddhist  authorities  assert  that  S'akya 
Sinha  and  his  successors  taught  in  Pali,  and  that  a  Pali  grammar  was 
compiled  in  his  day ;  yet,  on  the  other  hand,  they  affirm,  that  the 
doctrines  of  Buddha  were  long  taught  orally  only,  and  were  not 
committed  to  writing  till  four  centuries  after  his  death,  or  until  b.c. 
153,  a  date,  no  doubt,  subsequent  to  that  of  the  inscriptions." ^^^  .  .  . 

"It  is  by  no  means  established,  therefore,  that  Pali  was  the  sacred 
language  of  the  Buddhists  at  the  period  of  the  inscriptions,  and  its 

ISO  'W'eber  also  remarks  (Ind.  Stud.  iii.  180) :  "The  greater  purity  of  pronunciation 
maintained  in  the  popular  dialect  of  the  north-west  in  comparison  with  the  east, 
is  shown  by  the  inscription  of  Kapur  di  Giri,  in  which,  according  to  Wilson's 
remark  (The  Rook  Inscriptions  of  Kapur  di  Giri,  etc.),  not  only  the  three  sibilants  of 
the  Sanskrit,  but  also  a  number  of  compound  consonants,  containing  an  r  (such  as 
priya,  tatra,  prati,  yatra,  putra,  savatra,  krama,  s'usrusha,  s'ramana,  bramana,  bhratu), 
and  some  others,  such  as  st,  str,  have  been  preserved." 

^"  See,  however,  the  remarks  iu  the  preceding  section,  p.  57. 


108  DIALECTS  OP  THE  EOCK  AND  PILLAE 

use  constitutes  no  conclusive  proof  of  their  Buddtist  origin."'  It 
seems  more  likely  that  it  was  adopted  as  being  the  spoten  language 
of  that  part  of  India  where  Piyadasi  resided,  and  was  selected  for  his 
edicts  that  they  might  be  intelligible  to  the  people."  .... 

""We  may,  therefore,  recognize  it  as  an  actually  existing  form  of 
speech  in  some  part  of  India,  and  might  admit  the  testimony  of  its 
origin  given  by  the  Buddhists  themselves,  by  whom  it  is  always 
identified  with  the  language  of  Magadha  or  Behar,  the  scene  of  S'akya 
Sinha's  first  teaching;  but  that  there  are  several  differences  between 
it  and  the  Magadhi,  as  laid  down  in  Prakrit  grammars,  and  as  it 
occurs  in  Jain  writings.  It  is,  as  Messrs.  Bumouf  and  Lassen  remark, 
still  nearer  to  Sanskrit,  and  may  have  prevailed  more  to  the  north 
than  Behar,  or  in  the  upper  part  of  the  Doab,  and  in  the  Punjab, 
being  more  analogous  to  the  S'auraseni  dialect,  the  language  of  Mathura 
and  Dehli,  although  not  differing  from  the  dialect  of  Behar  to  such 
an  extent  as  not  to  be  intelligible  to  those  to  whom  S'akya  and  his 
successors  addressed  themselves.  The  language  of  the  inscriptions, 
then,  although  necessarily  that  of  their  date,  and  probably  that  in 
which  the  first  propagators  of  Buddhism  expounded  their  doctrines, 
seems  to  have  been  rather  the  spoken  language  of  the  people  in  Upper 
India,  than  a  form  of  speech  peculiar  to  a  class  of  religionists,  or  a 
sacred  language,  and  its  use  in  the  edicts  of  Piyadasi,  although  not 
incompatible  with  their  Buddhist  origin,  cannot  be  accepted  as  a  con- 
clusive proof  that  they  originated  from  any  peculiar  form  of  religiotiB 
belief." 

Some  observations  of  Prof.  Lassen  regarding  these  dialects,  and 
their  relative  antiquity  as  compared  with  the  Pali,  have  been  already 
quoted  in  the  last  section  (p.  59).  He  remarks  in  another  place  (Ind. 
Alt.,  ii.,  221,  222) :  "These  inscriptions  are  of  the  greatest  value  for 
the  history  of  the  Indian  languages,  because  they  exhibit  to  us  in  an 
authentic  shape  the  most  ancient  forms  assumed  by  the  popular  dialects, 
and  furnish  us  with  a  secure  basis  for  the  comparative  grammar  of  the 
great  Sanskritic  family  of  languages,  which  became  so  variously  de- 
veloped." 

13J  Professor  Wilson  has  since,  however,  from  an  examination  of  the  Bhahra 
inscription,  arrived  at  the  conviction,  that  there  is  in  it  "  enough  sufficiently  indis- 
putahle  to  estahlisli  the  fact  that  Priyadarsi,  whoever  he  may  have  been,  was  a 
follower  of  Buddha."— (Journ.  E.  A.  S.,  vol.  xv.,  p.  357.) 


INSCRIPTIONS  OF  AS'OKA.  109 

"In  these  inscriptions  we  possess  specimens  of  three  vernacular 
dialects,  one  from  the  border  country  to  the  north-west,  a  second  from 
western,  and  a  third  from  eastern  Hindustan.  The  inscriptions  on 
the  pillars  of  Dehli,  AUahahad,  etc.,  differ  only  in  particular  forms 
from  the  Dhauli  (Cuttak)  inscription,  while  they  possess  in  the  main 
the  same  character,  and  may  be  classed  with  the  Magadhi  of  the 
grammarians.  As  this  dialect  is  used  even  on  the  Dehli  column, 
which  is  situated  beyond  the  bounds  of  Magadha,  Asoka  appears  tp 
have  had  a  partiality  for  the  vernacular  language  of  his  principal 
province ;  and  from  the  predominating  employment  of  this  particular 
derivative  of  the  Sanskrit,  we  may  perhaps  explain  the  fact  that, 
among  the  Cingalese,  who  received  the  Buddhist  religion  from  that 
country,  their  sacred  language  should  have  obtained  this  appellation." 

At  p.  486,  again,  Lassen  says:  "It  is  only  the  rock  inscriptions 
which  can  be  admitted  as  authentic  evidence  of  the  local  dialects, 
while  the  columnar  inscriptions  everywhere  exhibit  the  same  dialect, 
which  consequently  cannot  have  been  spoken  in  every  quarter  where 
such  pillars  have  been  discovered.  This  remark  is  especially  true 
of  the  Dehli  column.  When  we  consider  that,  between  Cabul, 
Guzerat,  and  Magadha  (which  latter  province  was  the  native  country 
of  the  dialect  employed  in  the  pillar  inscriptions),  a  wide  region  inter- 
venes, inhabited  by  different  branches  of  the  Sanskrit-speaking  race,  we 
are  driven  to  the  conclusion  that  many  other  dialects  must  have  been 
current  there,  of  which  we  find  no  specimens  in  any  of  the  inscriptions." 

The  following  list  of  words,  from  the  Dehli  and  Allahabad  columns, 
and  the  Bhabra  stone,  borrowed  from  M.  Burnouf  s  Lotus  de  la  Bonne  Loi 
(App.  X.,  pp.  665,  724,  and  741),  will  show  the  correctness  of  Lassen's 
remark,  that  the  dialect  of  the  piUar  inscriptions  resembles  the  Magadhi 
of  Dhauli,  as  exhibited  in  the  comparative  list  which  I  shall  imme- 
diately adduce.  Thus  on  these  columns  we  have  dhamme,  dane,  sache, 
anugahe,  hate,  piye,  hayatie  and  pape,  for  dhammo,  danam,  sacham, 
anugaho,  hato,  piyo,  kayanam  and  pdpam  ;  laja,  valichalesu,  viMlatam, 
chila,  Aliya,  pulim  and  abldhale,  for  rajcL,  varichmresu,  mharatam,  chira, 
Ariya,  pwrisa  and  abhihdro;  Budhasi,  dhammasi  and  sanghasi,  for 
Budhamhi,  dhammamhi  and  sanghamhi. 

The  list  of  words,  which  I  shall  immediately  adduce,  borrowed  from 
the  article  of  Prof.  H.  H.  Wilson,  above  alluded  to,  in  Vol.  XII.  of  the 


110  DIALECTS  OF  THE  INSCRIPTIONS  OF  AS'OKA. 

Journal  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society,  and  from  the  Appendix,  No.  X., 
to  M.  Burnouf's  Lotus  de  la  Bonne  Loi,  when  compared  with  the  Pali 
equivalents  which  have  been  added,  will  suffice  to  show  the  points  in 
which  the  languages  of  the  inscriptions  agree  with  the  last-named 
dialect,  as  weU  as  the  respects  in  which  they  differ  from  one  another. 
I  must,  however,  frankly  state  that  I  do  not  pretend  to  have  made 
these  inscriptions,  or  the  character  in  which  they  are  written,  the 
object  of  particular  study ;  and  I  therefore  take  it  for  granted  that 
the  words  have  been  correctly  deciphered  by  the  eminent  scholars 
from  whom  I  quote. 

In  comparing  the  dialect  of  the  inscriptions  with  other  kindred  forms 
of  language,  presumed  to  be  of  about  equal  antiquity  with  them,  which 
have  come  down  to  us  in  books,  we  should  recollect  that  the  latter 
may  have  been  retouched  from  time  to  time,  to  render  them  more  in- 
telligible to  the  readers  by  whom  they  were  studied  in  successive 
generations,  whereas  the  inscriptions  have  descended  to  us  unaltered, 
except  by  the  defacing  action  which  ages  have  exercised  on  the  rocks 
on  which  they  are  engraved.  On  this  subject  I  quote  the  following 
judicious  observations  of  Mr.  Tumour,  in  the  Journal  of  the  Asiatic 
Society  of  Bengal,  for  December,  1837,  p.  1049: — 

"  "When  we  consider  that  these  inscriptions  were  recorded  upwards 
of  two  thousand  years  ago,  and  that  the  several  columns  on  which  they 
are  engraven  have  been  exposed  to  atmospheric  influences  for  the  whole 
of  that  period,  apparently  whoUy  neglected ;  when  we  consider,  also, 
that  almost  all  the  inflections  of  the  language  in  which  these  inscrip- 
tions are  composed,  occur  in  the  ultimate  and  penultimate  syllables, 
and  that  these  inflections  are  chiefly  formed  by  minute  vowel  symbols, 
or  a  small  anuswdra  dot;  and  when  we  further  find  that  the  Pali 
orthography  of  that  period,  as  shown  by  these  inscriptions,  was  very 
imperfectly  defined — using  single  for  double,  and  promiscuously,  aspi- 
rated and  unaspirated,  consonants  ;  and  also  without  discrimination  as 
to  the  class  each  belonged,  the  four  descriptions  of  n, — the  surprise 
which  every  reasonable  investigator  of  this  subject  must  feel  will  be 
occasioned  rather  by  the  extent  of  the  agreement  than  of  the  disagree- 
ment between  our  respective  readings  of  these  ancient  records." 

The  following  is  the  comparative  list  (the  Pali  column  of  which  owes 
its  completeness  to  Mr.  Childers)  which  I  proposed  to  adduce : — 


COMPARATIVE  LIST  OF  WORDS. 


lU 


N 


'3 

05     f^ 


>-) 
CO 

< 


-I 


'fe^ 


!3 


r-5  tOfrt 

•—^  CD      [0      c-l      ^ 


1^^1:4    O.^ 


[^     p-»  t»     >■  ^^  BO     tfl  ^'S 


.8  g       8  a  sSS 
IS  5ie:S  o  .■SS  ? 


I  g  §  re  ■» 
^  &  »  §  S 


'1,1 
lo  a 


s  s  s:     « 

8   «     .       §><» 

'^  ^  %.  ^  %.  & 


.It 


I 


S  «  §  I  S    ^ 


Si 

S,8 


a  §       ' 
'I  I,!"":-  .- 


.1111" 


^  •§  ig  g  8 


S  its-S 


■3  §  s 


Q   <s   5!  <3   ca  es 

a,  »,'«  a,  »  » 


's'l.! 


§  fl  I  '8  'S  'i  '1 
a,  Si's  a,  s>  »  g  g 


.. «  a  «  <fl  .tt  ■•» 


«  a  ...  a  «;  «  (Q  .4a  -•.  r^ 

iB.a,o.a!a.-a.4i-r  -g^ 


§•§-§•«; 


1,1 1  s  § 


>0  CO 

m       g       o" 

OS 

rH      . 

(N        rP         tn     . 

^         cf 

i>:oojo^ 

»o 

to    d 

o 

CO 

CO     oa 

t^ 

t-  t-  - 

r-t  tH  "       . 

■-• 

rH      ^  ^ 

^     -    «Q0 

-.         x*^ 

C3  R  F3  oa 

9    a 

c  s'S   ."  *- 

fl        fl  ■"• 

jSrS.'2j>r 

'S 

.a   .3 

w 

^^^^ 

^ 

N=   ^ 

^ 

P   ^^ 

112 


COMPARATIVE  LIST  OF  WOEDS  FROM  THE 


-J  a 


m 


gi— imp       ^'  .STSjim 

^         §60      .2,^  !::.:f 


^_  •§  S 


.R        P   p/^  a>  0)1— I  .:^    ^    .^ 


IB  .S 


•«!.», 


*<i       iM  tt  •  ,    «  ts  p^  'o  iS     s 

s^'nillllill 


5^  § 


Mo"  g 


lig.=§^ 


1  §.|| 


S    ■» 


'ig  js  a  s  IB  •_  ^,  „  w,  .^  _  „  , 


■Si 

»  a, 


•III    g 
•til    'S 


I 


IS 


.1  « 


S'S  a  ^"8  S.S.5  £.J  SIS' 

J  ^l"  I  I  I  ®  t- J  if  I  J  I.  J  IS- 


«      o      S 


li  ■§■  - 

It  = 


'I 

I 'Si, 

Is? 


^ii'»il 

.s-J  l>i  i 

■•S  -«  ■§"  S;  lO 


le 
^  s- 


"o  -.3 


:5P^S 


f^S  l»S    <ai    I   •_»  u    «    Q  £ 


T*^     ^  nj        H      "^s    M    ^    «*     ^*     ^*a"'^  *'0  «c  rwta 


^    ^    a    a    Q>«&    ta^ 


«    S  -S    !<■«.■«►< 

b,  s  s.  a,  s  s  e 


% 


^ 


o 
o 

203. 

191,  194. 

192,  195. 
192. 

2,  196,  2 

00 

CO 
00 

CO 

CO 

OS  CO 

2 

g 

g 

1 

g" 

^ 

1 

If 

g 

o  o  o  o    . 

on    03    CO    CO    00 

^ 


EOCK  INSCRIPTIONS  AND  PALI. 


113 


•-s     ^ 


■r^a 


a  § 


-6  S     -13  -is      ^ 


sg-i-S  S-Sj:^  SI'S  S|.|  |g 


CD 


.j"^^      to 


a     ■  '3 


S  .S  ,i3  t3  i-H -tJ    fti    -S 


ro  ■ 


S4 


IB  ^  ^  'g 

S  Si  g  'i  ^  ^  "-8  >  •»",■"  §  S  ;g  !«=  S- 


sjiii 


10  4 


•*      » 


e      «. -a  « .« -4;  s 


^ 


i>ff 


a 


1 


■S  (g  'O   B  ^ 


i,ia 


i»-  s^  tos  ■«  ^' 

^-  5s  re  p  ,B  -w  -^  ■«  s  '■^ 


IS  « 
•S  iS^l' 


§<£i"S.a^-<!«BB-S       B 


IB   B 


s 


£  ^  |§^  fe-S  ■»  'S  ig  « -^    S. 


IS 
m-    IB 


a  B  •§      I V2     .„  •»  a  is 

■g.g'ij^'ii'SSS.I'S 

lill-fS-ISS^^^-i 


'^ooffi 

^ 

1 

PQ 

.  05  Ol 

s^ 

lO  «-*  ^ 

-^ 

■o     -    . 

*^  fl 

fl 

t-  a  a 

(N 

a. -3 

F^ 

S''^  r3 

•i-( 

r:^ 

a 

.-c  VO 
t^  CO 


M 


<N  O  CO 

^Oi  O 

.-H  p-H  Jl 

I  Ol 


"-H       (M       ,-j  '-' 


QQ  i2         to  i-H  lO  '-^  CO  i-H  Cfl  (M  i-t  O  -^ 

«S  S      .  CO  OS  O      «J>-      .00  00  OS  OS  CO  „. 

-      „•-•        -s      -.       -**        -.t*        l.^       h       ^      »      «  -. 

flflcqaeifl'-'fl'-tflcipipifl  H 

_,     _     oo    ^ooo    .o    .ooooo  o 

S    :;a    :;3  .'S  5s  r3  r;a  r;^  r3  a  ::l :;:]  a  r^a  rs  r^  a 


M^    ^    S^^    ^   ^    ^        ^     ^      S^    ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^    ^ 


114 


COMPAEATIVE  LIST  OF  WORDS. 


e  a 

•a, Pi 


<u  o  o        a 

md 

O    m    V    fe 


.  -a  a  i  "S     ffl  ^- 


f 

a,  a, 


i   ■•Sia->i 


•§ 


S:^i 


ta,a,J 


:i- 


a.  a. 


■§'1  a-^' 


S    g  -S  ■«    § 


S'J«  &.a, 


S  -«  S  I  § 

*;  Ii   »  .s'3 


-a^l'.'^ 


FM 


I 


1^ 


m    a  rd    S     "si 
a    S  'SJ    S      ° 


a 


b  a 


Sri 


DIALECT  OF  THE  BUDDHIST  GATHAS.  115 

Sect.  VII. — The  Dialect  of  the  Buddhist  Gdthds,  and  its  relation  to  the 
Tali :  Summary  of  the  results  of  this  and  the  preceding  Section. 

I  now  come  to  the  last  of  the  yarieties  of  corrupted  Sanskrit  to 
which  I  referred  ia  p.  10,  viz.,  the  language  which  we  find  in  the 
Gathas,  or  metrical  portions  occurring  in  such  works  as  the  Lalita 
Vistara,  descriptive  of  the  life  and  discourses  of  Gotama  Buddha.  An 
account  of  the  peculiarities  of  this  dialect,  as  it  is  convenient  to  oaU.  it, 
has  been  given  by  Babu  Eajendralal  Mitra,  in  No.  6  of  the  Journal 
As.  Soc,  Bengal,  1864.  Of  the  Lalita  Vistara,  from  which  the  speci- 
mens given  by  this  writer,  and  those  which  will  be  adduced  by  myself, 
are  drawn.  Professor  MiiUer  remarks,  that  though  "on  account  of  its 
style  and  language,"  it  "  had  been  referred  by  Oriental  scholars  to  a 
much  more  modern  period  of  Indian  literature,"  it  "  can  now  safely 
be  ascribed  to  an  ante-Christian  era,  if,  as  we  are  told  by  Chinese 
scholars,  it  was  translated  from  Sanskrit  into  Chinese,  as  one  of  the 
canonical  books  of  Buddhism,  as  early  as  the  year  76  a.d.""* 

I  proceed  to  give  the  substance  of  Babu  Eajendralal's  dissertation  in 
his  own  words,  omitting  only  those  portions  which  appear  to  be  of  the 
least  importance ;  making  occasional  abridgments ;  and  adding,  in  some 
places,  to  the  number  of  the  specimens  he  has  given  of  the  Gatha  forms. 

"Of  the  dialects  which  have  proceeded  from  the  Sanskrit,  the  Pali 
and  the  Magadhi  have  hitherto  been  supposed  to  bear  the  closest 
resemblance  to  their  parent,  but  the  discovery  of  the  Sanskrit  Buddhist 
literature  of  Nepal  has  brought  to  our  knowledge  a  new  dialect, 
bearing  a  still  closer  aflnity  to  the  classic  language  of  the  East  than 
either  of  the  former.  Nepalese  chroniclers  have  named  it  Gatha 
(ballad),^'^  probably,  from  its  having  been  principally  used  by  the 
scalds  and  bards"'*  of  mediaeval  India.    For  nearly  a  similar  reason  the 

'3*  Buddhist  Pilgrims,  in  "  Chips, "  (1st  ed.)  vol.  i.,  p.  258. 

136  [The  antiquity  of  certain  compositions,  called  Gatfias,  is  proved  by  the  fact  ■ 
that  the  expression  mimigatha,  the  gathas  or  verses  of  the  Muni,  or  Munis,  occurs  in 
the  ancient  inscription  of  Piyadasi  at  Bhabra.    Biirnouf,  App.  a.  to  Lotus,  pp.  724, 
726,  729;  Wilson,  Jour.  E.  A.  S.,  vol.  xvi.,  pp.  359,  363,  367.     Babu  Uajeudralal 
also  refers  to  the  Mahawanso,  p.  252,  where  gathas  are  mentioned. — J.M.] 

"'•  On  this  Prof.  Benfey  remarks,  Gott.  Gel.  Anz.  for  1861,  p.  134 :  "  On  the 
other  hand,  Bahu  Eajendralal's  views  on  the  origin  of  these  Gathas  have  very  much 
to  recommend  them :  they  require  only  a  sUght  modification,  the  substitution  of 
inspired.  belieTera, — such  as  most  of  the  older  Buddhists  were, — sprung  from  the 
lower  classes  of  the  people, — ^in  the  place  of  professional  bards." 


116  BABU  EAJENDRALAL  MITEA  ON  THE 

Balenese  style  the  language  of  their  poets,  the  Kawi  or  poetical,  and 
the  language  of  the  Vedas  is  called  Chhandas  (metrical),  whence,  by  a 
weU-known  euphonic  law,  we  have  the  Zend  of  the  old  Persians. 

"M.  Bumouf,  the  only  European  scholar  who  has  noticed  the 
existence  of  this  dialect,  describes  it  to  be  '  a  barbarous  Sanskrit,  in 
which  the  forms  of  all  ages,  Sanskrit,  Pali,  and  Prakpit,  appear  to  be 
confounded.'  ^  It  differs  from  the  Sanskrit  more  in  its  neglect  of  the 
grammatical  rules  of  the  latter  than  from  any  inherent  peculiarity 
of  its  own.  The  niceties  of  the  Sanskrit  forms  of  declension  and 
conjugation  find  but  a  very  indifferent  attention  from  the  Gatha 
versifier ;  he  uses  or  rejects  the  usual  case-affixes  according  to  the 
exigencies  of  his  metre  with  as  much  veneration  for  the  rules  of 
Panini  as  the  "West  Indian  Negro  has  for  those  of  Lindley  Murray; 
indeed,  the  best  illustration  that  can  be  given  of  the  relation  which 
exists  between  the  Sanskrit,  the  Gatha,  and  the  Pali,  would  be 
extracts  from  the  literature  of  the  Negroes. 

"  The  Gatha  exists  only  in  a  versified  form,  and  is  to  be  met  with 
in  that  class  of  Buddhist  writings  called  the  Mahdvaipulya  or  the 
'  highly  developed '  sutras.  It  occurs  generally  at  the  end  and  often 
in  the  middle,  but  never  at  the  commencement  of  a  chapter,  and 
contains  a  poetical  abstract  of  the  subject  described  in  the  prose 
portion  of  the  works.  The  latter  is  written  in  pure  Sanskrit,  and 
comprises  a  highly  amplified  version  of  the  subject-matter,  and  often 
adverts  to  circumstances  unnoticed  in  the  former. 

"  The  Gatha  is  written  in  a  variety  of  metres,  from  the  facile  octo- 
syllabic anush(up,  to  the  most  complicated  sardulavikrldita.  Its 
peculiarities  are  those  of  a  language  in  a  state  of  transition;  it  pro- 
fesses to  be  Sanskrit,  and  yet  does  not  conform  to  its  rules.  In  it  we 
find  the  old  forms  of  the  Sanskrit  grammar  "gradually  losing  their  ex- 
pressive power,  and  prepositions  and  periphrastic  expressions  supplying 
their  places,  and  time-hallowed  verbs  and  conjugations  juxtaposed  to 
vulgar  slangs  and  uncouth  provincialisms.  At  one  place,  orthography 
is  sacrificed  for  the  sake  of  prosody  and  a  word  of  a  single  short 
syllable  is  inflated  into  one  of  three  syllables,  while  at  another  the 
latter  yields  to  the  former  and  a  molossus  supplies  the  place  of  a 
pyrrhic  or  a  tribrach.  A  spirit  of  economy  pervades  the  whole,  and 
syUahles  and  words  are  retrenched  and  modified  with  an  unsparing 
•5'  L'Histoire  du  Buddhisme,  p.  104. 


LANGUAGE  OF  THE  BUDDHIST  6ATHAS.  117 

hand.  In  the  Lalita  Vistara  instances  of  these  peculiarities  occur  in 
great  profusion,  and  they  may  be  generally  referred  to  (A)  exigencies 
of  metre,  (B)  provincialisms,  and  (C)  errors  of  syntax  and  prosody. 

"A. — Of  the  changes  which  may  be  attributed  to  the  exigencies 
of  metre,  prolongation,  contraction  and  elision  of  vowels,  elision  of 
consonants,  and  the  segregation  of  compound  consonants  and  long 
Towels  into  their  simple  elements,  appear  to  be  the  most  frequent. 
We  shall  quote  a  few  instances : 

1st.  "  Of  the  prolongation  of  vowels  the  following  may  be  taken 
as  examples."* 

"No,  eha  for  na  cha;  so  eha  for  «a  cha;  prayato  for  prayatali; 
rodamana  for  rudamana. 

2nd.  "  Of  contractions  of  vowels,  instances  occur  almost  in  every 
sloka.  They  are  generally  effected  by  the  use  of  short  for  long 
vowels,  and  the  substitution  of  i  and  u  for  e,  ai,  o,  and  au :  for 
example,  yami  for  yame ;  dharentiiox  dharayanti ;^^  drwmavara  for 
drumwoa/rCih ;  mdya  for  maya ;  ghanta  for  ghanta ;  piy'am  etdm  for 
pujdm  etam  ;  yatha  for  yathd  ;  tatha  for  tathd  ;  sada  for  mdd. 

3rd.  "Elisions  of  vowels  and  consonants  are  also  very  frequent; 
they  are  effected  principally  with  a  view  to  economy  and  euphony. 
Final  ses  are  invariably  elided.  Take  for  instance :  nabJie  for  nahhasi  ; 
apsardh  for  apsarasah  ;"°  saddrcMslcandhi  for  saddrchishi  shandhe ;  ima 
drishta  vasthdm  for  imdih  drishtvd  avasthdm  ;  niichari  for  niichaohWra ; 
pranidhenti  for  pranidhydyanti ;  mand  for  manasah;  ena  for  etena. 

4th.  "  Of  the  division  of  long  vowels  and  compound  consonants 
into  their  short  and  simple  elements,  the  following  are  instances  of 
constant  occurrence : 

" Rdttiye  for  rdtrydh,  or  rdtryam;  turiyebhiior  turyehhyah;  gilaito 

'S'  Quoted  froln  the  editioli  of  the  Lalita  Vistara,  in  the  Bihliotheca  Indioa. 

["9  Other  instances  of  the  same  abbreviation  (common  also  in  the  Pali  and 
Prakrits)  are  enti  for  ayanti;  upenti  for  upayanti;  janenti  ior  janayanti ;  jamhi 
fox janaya;  mochehiiot  mochaya ;  bodhehiiox  boihaya;  purehi  toi puraya ;  darsenti 
for  dafsayamti,  and  numerous  others. — J.M.] 

**"  On  -this  Professor  Benfey  remarks  in  the  Gbtt.  Gel.  Anz.  for  January,  1861, 
p.  134  :  "  Such  forms,  as,  for  instance,  opsard  for  apsaras,  appear  already  in  abun- 
dance in  the  Vedas,  and  arise,  not  from  the  exigencies  of  the  metre,  but  from  the  fact 
of  terminations  in  as  passing  into  terminations  in  a."  He  then  goes  on  to  refer  to 
the  great  importance  of  this  Gatha  language ;  and  expresses  the  hope  of  being  able 
to  exhibit  this  in  a  grammar  of  this  form  of  speech,  which  he  had  then  already 
prepared,  but  which  has  not  yet  been  published. 


118         BABU  EAJENDEALAL  MITEA  ON  THE 

for  glano  ;  isfri  for  strl ;  twiya  for  turyya ;  ahilantaha  for  aUantaka ; 
Icilesa  for  kleia  ;  hwi  for  hrl ;  iiri  for  sri ;  iiriya  for  iriya  ;  ii/riye  for 
kriye ;  deviye  for  devyah ;  pUjaraham  for  pujarham ;  padumani  for 
padmani;  ddnachariyd  ioi  ddnaeharya  ;  svpina  iov  svapnam,}"- 

"  This  tendency  to  segregation  of  aspirated  consonants  forms  a 
principal  characteristic  of  mediseval  and  modem  Indian  phonology. 
The  Pali  and  the  Prakrit  owe  their  origin  entirely  to  this  cause.  The 
Hindi  and  the  Marhatti  indulge  in  it  to  a  large  extent,  and  the 
Bengali  is  not  exempt  from  its  influence. 

"  B. — The  provincialisms  of  the  Gatha  include  neglect  of  gender, 
numher,  and  case,  ahhreviations  and  omissions  of  declensions,  corruption 
of  pronouns,  and  new  forms  of  conjugation.  ^ 

(1.)  "Of  the  neglect  of  gender,  number,  and  case,  the  following 
may  be  taken  as  examples :  vUuddhanirmalam,  for  vUuddhanirmalan 
(singular  for  plural) ;  huddhahhetram  for  huddhahJtetrdni  (singular  for 
plural) ;  dsanina  for  dsandt  (instrumental  for  ablative) ;  hodMsuvata 
far  lodhisuvatdt  (objective  for  ablative) ;  urddJia  hastd  for  urddhau 
liastau  (plural  for  dual) ;  kechid  ehapade  for  kechid  ekapddena  (locative 
for  instrumental) ;  trilokam  for  trilohl  (neuter  for  feminine) ;  kdranam 
for  kdrandni  (singular  feminine  for  plural  neuter) ;  nahshatrdh  for 
nakshatrdni  (masculine  for  neuter) ;  prithu  for  prithmah  ;  ime  karma 
for  imdni  karmani. 

(2.)  "  Under  the  head  of  abbreviations  and  omissions  of  declension, 
the  most  remarkable  peculiarity  appears  to  be  the  use  of  u  in  the  room 
of  all  Sectional  affixes,"  as  ratanu  for  ratnam;  ahuioraham.  ZTis 
also  merely  put  for  the  inherent  a,  as  in  two  of  the  following  cases : 
kshayusamskritu  for  kshayasamskrita ;  nishkrdntu  for  nishkrdnta ;  pa/ri- 
vdritu  for  parivdritah.  The  next  are  instances  in  which  the  case  ter- 
minations are  omitted ;  laukika^  for  laukikdh  ;  chitrakarma  for  chitra- 
karmdnah ;  and  such  instances  are  of  continual  occurrence. 

(3.)  "The  following  are  the  corruptions  of  pronouns  that  are  fre- 
quently met  with  in  the  Lalita  Vistara.  They  apparently  lead  the 
way  to  the  formation  of  pronouns  in  the  modern  vernaculars : — 

['*'  Other  cases  are  vit/uha  for  vyuha;  ratana  for  ratna;  sakiyanam  for 
s'akyanam;  nariya  for  tidryah;  vajiriknya  for  vajrakaya;  saTtkitam  for  saktam; 
'  sukula  for  iukla;  nyasiya  for  nyasya;  abhujiya  for  ahhujya;  akampiyo  for 
•Ukainpyah,  etc. — J.M.] 


LAJJGUAGE  OP  THE  BUDDHIST  GATHAS.  119 

"  Mahya  for  mama  and  mattah ;  tulhya  for  tv&y>i  (sic)  tvaih,  and 
tava  ;  '*"  ayu  for  eshah  ;  te  for  to.  ;  hahim  for  kutra  and  fo««. 

(4.)  "The  new  forms  of  conjugation  observable  in  the  Gatha  are 
attributable  exclusively  to  corrupt  pronunciation  ;  they  foUow  no  fixed 
rule,  and  are  the  result  of  that  natural  tendency  to  abbreviation  which 
in  the  English  originates  "wont"  from  "will  not,"  and  "  shant " 
from  "  shall  not."     The  foUowiug  are  a  few  examples  : 

"  Dddami  and  demi  for  dadami  ;  hhosi  for  hhavasi  ;  hhoti  for  Iha/oati  ; 
Ihonti  for  bhavanti ;  ramishyasi  for  ramsyase ;  aruhi  for  arohat ;  a/ram 
or  rani  for  a/rat;  utthi  for  uttishtha;  dada  for  dadasva;  iunohi  and 
iuna  for  Srinu  ;  munehaml  for  amuncha;  iheshyi  for  hha/vishyami-v-m-ti- 
iiah-anti-si-thah-tha ;^^  parikatha  for  pa/rihathaya  ;  nyasi  for  nidadhuh  ; 
sanuvamti  for  srinvanti;  iunitva,  irunitvd,  imitya  and  irutya  for  irutvd; 
htnishyati  for  iroshyati ;  iunya  for  srdvydn;  oruMtvd  for  maruhya; 
glapwyisu  for  gldpayamasuh  ;  jahitvd  for  hitva, ;  huidhitva  for  luddlmd. 

"It  may  be  remarked  that  the  corruptions  above  quoted  are,  in 
many  instances,  the  precursors  of  forms  adopted  in  other  affiliated 
dialects.  In  Sanskrit  the  third  person  singular  of  the  verb  to  le  is 
hhavati,  which  in  the  Gatha  changes  to  hhoti  by  the  conversion  of  the  v 
into  0  and  the  elision  of  the  a  before  and  after  it  {hhonti  in  the  plural, 
and  bhosi  in  the  second  person  singular),  and  thence  we  have  hoti,  host, 
and  honii  in  the  Magadhi.  S'mitvd  for  srutva  is  the  first  step  to  the 
formation  of  sunid  in  Bengali,  while  sunohi  passes  into  suno  with 
nothing  but  the  elision  of  an  inflection.  ■• 

"  C. — In  the  collocation  of  words  and  phrases  the  Gatha  strictly 
follows  the  rules  of  Sanskrit  syntax,  but  in  the  formation  of  compound 
terms  it  admits  of  many  licences  highly  offensive  to  the  canons  of 
Panini  and  Vopadeva.  They  seem,  however,  to  be  the  consequence  of 
haste  and  inattention,  and  are  not  referiable  to  any  dialectic  peculiarity." 

There  are,  however,  some  other  forms  discoverable  in  the  Gatha 

'"  [I  have  noted  also  mi  for  mahyam  and  maya ;  ti  for  tvaya  (Lv.  pp.  256,  358, 
380,  399) ;  tasd  for  tasya  (p.  125) ;  anabhih  for  ebhih  (p.  304).— J.M.] 

1*'  [I  find  the  following  additional  irregular  forms  of  the  verb  bhu,  "to  be,"  viz., 
bhamti  for  bhmati,  abhusM  for  abhut,  abhushih  for  abhiih  (?),  ababhuvan  for 
abhuvan,  bhwei  for  bhavishyasi  and  bhmiani,  bhaviya  and  bhaveyH  (resembling  a 
Pali  form  of  the  same  tense)  for  bhmet,  bhoM  for  ihava,  bhaviya  and  bhamah  for 
bkutva,  cmubhaviya  for  anabhuya,  prabhami  and  prabhama  for  prabhavaini  and 
prabhwitamah.  The  forms  asmah  for  smalt,  and  asi  for  asti,  or  asit,  also  occur. — J.M.] 


120  FORMS  OF  THE  GATHA  DIALECT., 

dialect,  which,  have  been  either  passed  over,  or  but  briefly  noticed 
by  Bahu  Eajendralal,  and  which  yet  present  some  points  of  remarkable 
interest.  Thus  the  plural  instrumental  in  ehhih,  which  is  so  general 
in  the  Vedas,  is  in  constant  use  in  the  Gathas  also,  as  in  the  instances 
iaMyebJiih,  mttvebhih,  gunebMh,  simhdsanehhih,  darahebhih,  ehetahebhih, 
employed  instead  of  the  form,  sakyaih,  sattvaih,  etc.,  which  is  alone 
current  in  modem  Sanskrit.  It  is  from  this  older  form  in  ehMh  that 
the  PaH  form  of  the  same  case  in  ebhi,  or  ehi,  is  derived,  as  in  the 
word  buddhebhi,  or  buddJieU  (Clongh,  Pali  Gram.,  p.  19).  Again, 
we  find  in  the  Gathas  various  other  cases  besides  those  above 
noticed  in  which  the  case-terminations  of  the  declension  in  a  are 
substituted,  in  the  case  of  words  ending  in  consonants,  ibr  those  proper 
to  the  latter  form  of  declension.  Thus,  for  jagatali  and  jagati  (the 
gen.  and  loc.  of  jagat),  we  have  jagasya  and  jage ;  for  namna  (instr, 
oSnaman),  we  have  ndmena;  for  mahatmdnam  we  have  mahatmam;  for 
anantaya^asam  we  have  Mncmtwya&am.;  for  Imrmanah  (gen.  of  karman) 
we  have  learmasya ;  and  for  duhita/ram,  accusative  of  the  word  duMtri 
(ending  in  ri),  we  have  duhitdm,  the  accusative  of  feminine  nouns 
ending  in  a.  This  change  is  one  to  which  the  Pali  inclines  (as  in 
the  form  £rahmmsa,  as  one  of  the  genitives  of  Brahman),  and  to 
which  a  stiU  more  decided  tendency  is  observable  in  the  Prakrit. 
(See  Cowell's  Prakrit  Gram.  Introd.,  p.  xxiii.,  xxiv.)  On  the  other 
hand,  we  find  also  in  the  Gathas  instances  of  the  quite  different 
change  of  e  into  i  in  the  locative,  as  loM,  gehi,  udari,  for  the  proper 
form  loke,  gehe,  uda/re.  The  particle  a/pi  {also)  is  contracted  to  pi,  as 
in  Prakrit ;  thus  we  have  ahampi  for  aham  api,  tubhyatnpi,  for  tubh- 
yam  api,  vayampi  for  vayam  api,  napi  for  napi,  tathapi  for  tathapi, 
punopi  for  punar  api :  so  also  iti  is  contracted  to  ti,  as  in  ahanti  for 
aham  iti.  Again,  we  have  the  peculiar  forms  jihmi,  jihma,  and  jaha 
for  yatha ;  yathariva  for  yathaiea^^^  (precisely  as  in  Pali,  Clough's 
Gram.,  p.  11);  siti  for  smriti;  pathe  for  patheshu,  and  ishtikdn  for 
yashtidhdrakdn  (macebearers). 

Many  of  the  changes  in  the  Gatha  verbs  are  in  part  the  same  which 
we  find  in  Pali.  Thus,  for  the  correct  Sanskrit  forms  chodayanti, 
tarpayishyanti,  nivarttayati  and  dhdrayantl,  we  have  chodenti,  ia/rpesh- 

"^  See  the  farther  instances  of  interpolation  of  letters  already  adduced  above, 
p.  70,  and  note. 


FORMS  OF  THE  GATHA  DIALECT.  121 

yaii,  nivartteii -oadL  iharenU,  •which,  in  Eali,  would  be  dhaiimU,  tap- 
pessati,  niimtteti,  and  MarenU.  Again,  for  avalambate  we  have  olamhate, 
which  would  take  the  same  form  in  Pali.  The  modifications  m>aoM 
for  aoochat,  munehi  for  amunelMt,  gaohehM  for  agadhehkat,  dhy&yi  for 
adhyayat,  correspond  in  some  measure  to  such  Pali  forms  as  ak&ai  for 
aharsihil,  ahasi  for  aMrshtt,  adasi  for  add,t,  ahosi  for  abhut,  atthdsi 
for  asthat,  aladhi  for  abadhxt,  etc. :  and  snapinsu^  for  sndpaydmasuh  or 
asimapan,  is  nearly  the  same  as  the  Pali  form  apaehinsu,  the  third  person 
plural  of  the  third  preterite.  'The  Gatha  forms  dariishyasi  for  d/raksh- 
yasi,  iunishyati  for  iroshyaU,  'kshipuhyati  for  hshepsyati,  and  spris- 
ishydti  for  sparhshyati  or  sprahahyati,  are  analogous  to  the  Pali  forms 
vedissami  for  veUydmi,  ihun^'iBsdmi  for  hhokshydmi,  and  dessissdmi  for 
dehshydmL  The  Gatha  past  indeclinable  particles  also,  such  as  hhavitvd, 
ramitva,  Ttanitva,  iabhitvd,  stuvitvd,  manMvd,  vijiMtmd,  iumtvS,  spriiiivd 
for  hhutvd,  mantm,  hatvd,  iahdhvd,  sirdva,  matvd,  vi-\-hifvd,  initva,  and 
sprishtvd,  are  formed  on  the  same  principle  as  the  similar  Pali  ones, 
pcmsitvd,  jdnitvd,  ihunjitvd,  for  pra  +  veshtvd,  jndivd,  and  hhuktvd. 
Of  the  forms  kmritya  and  hariydna  for  hriivd,  the  latter  coincides 
in  its  termination  with  snch  Pali  forms  as  sutvdna  and  disvdna  for 
irutvd  and  drishtvd.  Again,  we  have  the  forms  kampayanto,  vdra- 
yanto,  vimsKkramanto,  viryavanU  (part.nom.  sing.),  ior  kampayan,  etc., 
which  coincides  with  the  Pali  and  PraJcrit.  The  same  may  be  said 
of  pekshasi  for  prekshase ;  tdva  for  tdvat ;  sma/r&hi,  kwvahi,  hhandhi, 
vasdM,  for  smara,  kwru,  hhana  and  nam  lespectively ;  deviye  and  demye 
for  devydh ;  tapasm/i  for  tapasi ;  talasmin  for  tah ;  arhantebhih  for 
arhadbhih ;  pralhayA  for  praihiiyd,  vdchdyd  for  vddhd.  For  tyakfmd  I 
fi,nd  the  word  cMoruyitvd,  which  does  not  seem  to  be  much  used  in 
Sanskrit,  though  Wilson,  in  his  Dictionary,  giyes  chhorana  in  the  sense 
of  "leaving."  I  quote  the  following  additional  anomalous  forms, 
viz.,  pithitd  for  pishta,  pithUani  for  prathitdrd,  visnapl  for  vyamdpa- 
yem,  snapit  for  sndpayitvd,  kshipinm  for  kshipanii,  hhaviya  for  hhmiH, 
pratishfhihitvd  tor  pratishthdya,  datti  for  dadati,  deti  Sor  dadati,  ddsmi 
for  dasyami,  diyatu  for  diyatam,  darthi  for  dadatah,  daditu  for  ddUm, 
detl,  dadia  and  dadiya  for  dattmd;  kwrvmi  for  hwromi,  haronti  for  hv/r- 
<eanU,  or  karishyanti;  haroma  for  karishydmah ;  hareya  for  kuryuh; 
kmritya,  kariye,  andAariya  forirj'tofi;  praka/rohiiai prakuru ;  grihltya, 
grahiya  for  grihitvd;  Ihinanmiioi  hhinadmi;  vademi  for  vaddmi;  vyus- 

TOl.  11.  9 


122  FORMS  OP  THE  GATHA  DIALECT. 

tMya  for  vyutthaya ;  sthihiya  iot  siMfva ;  utthihitvd  for  utihaya ;  aru- 
hiiya  for  druhya,  pardhaniya  for  parahafya ;  utihihei  for  uttishthet ; 
eharoti  for  charati  \  minitvd  for  matva  ;  iahhitam  and  iaktitam  for 
iaktam ;  ucliehhrepaya  for  uthhepaya ;  miyati  for  mriyate ;  pUrima  for 
^un'fl! ;  W(?M  for  vidvdn ;  viduhhih  for  viehadlhih ;  Idlhase  for  Idbhaya ; 
samslcrit&ttah  for  s«»i«AnVa<,  or  samslcritata^ ;  j'dnami  ioijdndmi;  hhdsi 
for  hhashate;  vinenti  ioi  vineahyati;  jcmesM  or  janaisM,  for  janayiahyati; 
adrUuh  for  a(^ai«^«$;  paiyeta  for  drisyate;  adhyeshtu  for  adhyetum; 
eMntayd  for  cMntayitvd ;  vademi  for  vaddmi ;  vandima  for  vanddmahe ; 
atihrametum  for  atikramitum.  (In  all  these  cases,  I  should  observe,  the 
Sanskrit  equivalents  are  given  according  to  the  notes  in  the  printed 
edition  of  the  Lalita  Vistara.)  Nouns  and  participles  are  frequently 
lengthened  by  the  addition  of  the  syllable  ka,  as  rodantako,  gachhamd- 
nahe,  hhdahamdnikdh,  dadantikg,h,  roditavyakah,  dgatihah,  ddainikdh 
for  rudan  (or  rather  rodanto),  gaehhamdne,  Ihdahamdndh,  dadatyal}, 
roditmyah,  dgatdh,  ddaikdh.  This  insertion  of  ka  is  also  to  be  noticed 
in  the  following  verses  of  the  Yajasaneyi  sanhita,  xxiii.  22,  f. ;  where 
yahd  and  asakau,  yakah  and  aaakau,  stand  for  yd,  yah,  and  aaau. 

Very  peculiar  is  the  use  of  the  a  privative  in  ajanehi  for  md  janaya, 
"do not  cause." 

The  use  of  abbreviated,  or  otherwise  irregular,  forms,  such  as  lalM  for 
lapsyase,  or  labdhah,  gachchi  for  agaoJihat,  cliali  for  chalitd,  munehi  for 
amunchat,  avachi  for  avochat,  niveiayi  for  niveUtdh,  ehhadayi  for  ehhdda- 
yati,  parichari  for  pmryachmrah  and  pmriehdrim,  va/rioha/ri  for  varachch 
ramm,  tyoyi  for  tyaktd,  tyaktvd,  and  tyakta/vdn,  amari  for  smritam  and 
«»2fl!>-«n(S>re,  va/rshi  for  varaMtvd,  vraji  for  mrajat,  sparii  for  aprashtum, 
utthi  for  uftiahtha  and  utthaya,  is  extremely  common,  and,  as  will  be 
seen  from  the  equivalents  following  each  word,  these  forms  are  very 
variously  interpreted  by  the  commentator,  and  supposed  to  stand  for 
verbs  in  the  present,  past,  and  future  tense,  and  in  the  imperative  mood, 
and  for  participles  active  and  passive,  as  weU  as  for  nouns.  The  penul- 
timate syllable  of  verbs  is  very  often  lengthened,  as  in  the  Vedio  let 
form,  as  in  mochaydti,  dha/rshaydti,  aahdti,  Idbhdti,  driidai,  vrajaai,  for 
mochay&ti,  etc.,  for  which  the  commentator  generally  substitutes  the 
present  tense,  but  sometimes  the  past,  and  sometimes  the  future.  This 
form  is  even  found  with  the  augment  in  adrUdai,  rendered  by  the  com- 
mentator j>fl!sy»<«  or  adrdhahlt. 


Missing  Page 


12.^  QUOTATION  FEOM  BABU  EAJENDRALAL'S 

such  a  jargon  may  have  been  produced  in  places  where  the  Sanskrit 
was  not  studied  systematically,  and  in  the  midst  of  populations  which 
had  never  spoken  it,  or  had  known  only  the  dialects  derived  more  or 
less  remotely  from  the  primitive  source.  I  incline  then  to  the  belief 
that  this  part  of  the  great  Sutras  must  have  been  written  out  of  India, 
or,  to  express  myself  more  precisely,  in  countries  situated  on  the 
western  side  of  the  Indus,  or  in  Cashmir,  for  example;  countries 
where  the  learned  language  of  Brahmanism  and  Euddhism  would  be 
cultivated  with  less  success  than  in  Central  India.  It  appears  to  me 
almost  impossible  that  the  jargon  of  these  poems  could  have  been 
produced  ia  an  epoch  when  Buddhism  flourished  in  Hindusthan. 
Then,  in  fact,  the  priests  had  no  other  choice  but  between  these  two 
idioms;  either  the  Sanskrit,  i.e.  the  language  which  prevails  in  the 
compositions  collected  at  Nepal,  or  the  Pali,  that  is,  the  dialect  which 
is  found  on  the  ancient  Buddhist  inscriptions  of  India,  and  which 
has  been  adopted  by  the  Buddhists  of  Ceylon.'  ^** 

-"  This  opinion,"  continues  Babu  Eajendralal,  "  we  venture  to  think, 
is  founded  on  a  mistaken  estimate  of  Sanskrit  style.  The  poetry 
of  the  Gatha  has  much  artistic  elegance  which'  at  once  indicates 
that  it  is  not  the  composition  of  men  who  were  ignorant  of  the  first 
principles  of  grammar.  Its  authors  display  a  great  deal  of  learning, 
and  discuss  the  subtlest  questions  of  logic  and  metaphysics  with  much 
tact  and  ability;  and  it  is  difficult  to  conceive  that  men  who  were 
perfectly  familiar  with  the  most  intricate  forms  of  Sanskrit  logic,  who 
have  expressed  the  most  abstruse  metaphysical  ideas  in  precise  and 
often  in  beautiful  language,  who  composed  with  ease  and  elegance  in 
Arya,  Totaha,  and  other  difficult  measures,  were  unacquainted  with  the 
rudiments  of  the  language  in  which  they  wrote,  and  even  unable  td 
conjugate  the  verb  to  be,  in  all  its  forms.     This  difficulty  is  greatly 

115  L'Histoire  du  Bmddhisme  Indien,  p.  105.  [I  tave  introduced  a  very  few  verbal 
alterations  into  this  translation  from  Burnoaf.  Lassen,  Ind.  Alt.,  ii.  p.  9,  concurs  in 
these  views  of  Bnrnouf : — "  The  Mahayana  Sutras  (of  the  Buddhists)  are  composed 
in  a  prose  made  up  of  a  mixture  of  irregular  Sanskrit,  of  Pali,  and  of  forms  borrowed 
from  the  vulgar  dialects ;  and  the  narrative  is  repeated  in  verse.  Such  a  medley  of 
forms  could  only,  as  it  appears,  have  arisen  in  a  country  where  the  learned  language 
was  no  longer  maintained  in  its  purity ;  and,  consequently,  the  writings  in  question 
were  probably  composed  in  the  countries  bordering  on  the  Indus,  and  most  likely  in 
Kashmir,  which  plays  an  important  part  in  the  later  history  of  Buddhism."  (See 
also  pp.  491,  492,  and  p.  1153  of  the  same  volume.) — J.M.] 


ESSAY  ON  THE  GATHA  DIALECT.  125 

enhanced,  when  we  bear  in  mind  that  the  prose  portion  of  the 
Vaipulya  Sutras  is  written  in  perfectly  pure  Sanskrit,  and  has  no  trace 
whatever  of  the  provincialisms  and  popular  forms  so  abundant  in  the 
poetry.  If  these  Sutras  be  the  productions  of  men  beyond  the  Indus 
imperfectly  acquainted  with  the  Sanskrit,  how  happens  one  portion 
of  them  to  be  so  perfect  in  every  respect,  while  the  other  is  so  impure? 
What  could  have  been  the  object  of  writing  the  same  subject  twice 
over  in  the  same  work,  once  in  pure  prose  and  then  in  incorrect 
poetry  ? 

"It  might  be  supposed — what  is  most  likely  the  case — that  the 
prose  and  the  poetry  are  the  productions  of  two  different  ages ;  but  the 
question  would  then  arise,  how  came  they  to  be  associated  together  ? 
"What  could  have  induced  the  authors  of  the  prose  portions  to  insert  in 
their  works  the  incorrect  productions  of  Trans-Indus  origin  ?  Nothing 
but  a  sense  of  the  truthfulness  and  authenticity  of  those  narratives 
could  have  led  to  their  adoption.  But  how  is  it  likely  to  be  supposed 
that  the  most  authentic  account  of  SSkya,  within  three  hundred  years 
after  his  death,  was  to  be  had  only  in  countries  hundreds  of  miles  away 
from  the  place  of  his  birth,  and  the  field  of  his  preachings  ?  The  great 
Sutras  are  supposed  to  have  been  compiled  about  the  time  of  the  third 
convocation  (309  B.C.),  when  it  is  not  at  all  likely  that  the  sages  of 
central  India  would  have  gone  to  Cashmere  in  search  of  data,  which 
could  be  best  gathered  at  their  own  threshold. 

"  The  more  reasonable  conjecture  appears  to  be  that  the  Gatha  is 
the  production  of  bards,  who  were  contemporaries  or  immediate  suc- 
cessors of  S'akya,  who  recounted  to  the  devout  congregations  of  the 
prophet  of  Magadha  the  sayings  and  doings  of  their  great  teacher,  in 
popular  and  easy  flowing  verses,  which  in  course  of  time  came  to  be 
regarded  as  the  most  authentic  source  of  all  information  connected  with 
the  founder  of  Buddhism.  The  high  estimation  in  which  the  ballads 
and  improvisations  of  bards  are  held  in  India  and  particularly  in  the 
Buddhist  writings,  favours  this  supposition;  and  the  circumstance 
that  the  poetical  portions  are  generally  introduced  in  corroboration  of 
the  narrative  of  the  prose,  with  the  words  :  Tatredam  uchyate,  '  Thereof 
this  may  be  sa,id,'  affords  a  strong  presumptive  evidence." 

In  a  review  of  Bumouf's  "  Lotus  de  la  Bonne  Loi,"  Professor  "Weber 
(in  the  Indische  Studien,  iii.  pp.  139,  140)  remarks  as  follows  on  the 


126  PROFESSOR  WEBER  ON  THE  GATHA  DIALECT. 

views  expressed  by  Bumouf  in  the  preceding  passage  in  regard  to  the 
language  of  the  Gathas : — 

"The  last  reason  (viz.  that  Sanskrit  was  cultivated  with  less  sup- 
cess  in  Kashmir  than  in  Central  India)  is  an  incorrect  one ;  since,  on 
the  contrary,  it  is  precisely  in  the  north-west  of  India  that  the  proper 
seat  of  Indian  grammatical  learning  appears  to  have  existed.  As 
regards  the  fact  itself,  Bumouf  may  be  right,  and  the  jargon  of  those 
poetical  portions  may  have  actually  been  at  one  time  the  local  dialect 
of  Eashmir,  which  would  preserve  a  far  more  exact  resemblance  to 
the  ancient  form  of  speech,  than  did  the  Pali  and  Prakrit  •dialects 
which  were  developed  in  India  proper  under  the  influence  of  the 
aborigines,  who  spoke  differently.  But  as  Bumouf  urges  elsewhere, 
that  the  more  recent  a  Buddhistic  work  is,  the  purer  and  more 
correct  is  its  language,  it  appears  to  me  more  natural  to  assume 
that  these  poetical  portions  are  fragments  of  older  traditions ;  because, 
if  they  were  more  recent  than  the  rest  of  the  text,  there  is  no 
good  ground  on  which  to  account  for  their  deviating  from  them  in 
point  of  language ;  or  if  there  were  a  difference,  one  would  expect  that 
the  poetical  parts  would  be  more  correct  tiian  the  prose.  This  is  in 
fact  the  view  taken  in  the  Journal  of  the  Asiatic  Society  of  Bengal  for 
1851,  p.  283,  where  the  Lalita  Vistara  is  said  to  have  been  'compiled 
in  Sanskrit  about  the  end  of  the  sixth  oentury  from  ballads  in  an 
obsolete  patois  of  that  language,  composed  evidently  by  bards  at  a  much 
earlier  period.'  " 

In  regard  to  the  point  on  which  Babu  Eajendralal  is  at  issue  with 
the  views  of  M.  Bumouf,  I  will  not  venture  to  express  any  opinion. 
The  peculiarities  of  the  Gatha  dialect  are  so  anomalous  that  it  is  very 
difficult  to  explain  them.  In  any  case,  it  is  clear  that,  if  not  a  spoken 
language,  it  was  at  least  a  written  language  in  a  remote  age :  and  it 
therefore  exemplifies  to  us  some  portion  of  the  process  by  which  the 
Sanskrit  was  broken  down  and  corrupted  into  the  derivative  dialects 
which  sprang  out  of  it. 

I  subjoin  the  concluding  passage  of  Babu  Eajendralal's  dissertation, 
in  which  he  states  his  opinion  in  regard  to  the  periods  at  which  the 
successive  modifications  of  Sanskrit  were  spoken  in  India. 

"  The  language  of  the  Gatha  is  believed,  by  M.  Bumouf,  to  be 
intermediate  between  the  Pali  and  the  pure  Sanskrit.     Now,  as  the 


SUMMAET  OF  PRECEDINa  SECTIONS.  127 

Pali  was  the  vernacular  language  of  India  from  Cuttack  to  Kapurdagiri 
withiii  three  hundred  years  after  the  death  of  S'akya,  it  would  not  he 
unreasonahle  to  suppose  that  the  Gatha  which  preceded  it  was  the 
dialect  of  the  million  at  the  time  of  S'akya' s  advent.  If  our  conjecture 
in  this  respect  he  right,  it  would  follow  that  the  Sanskrit  passed  into 
the  Gatha  six  hundred  years  before  the  Christian  era ;  that  three 
hundred  years  subsequently  it  changed  into  the  Pali ;  and  that  thence, 
in  two  hundred  years  more,  proceeded  the  Prakrit  and  its  sister  dialects 
the  S'auraseni,  the  Dravidi,"^  and  the  Panchali,  which  in  their  turn 
formed  the  present  vernacular  dialects  of  India." 


I  have  thus  (as  I  originally  proposed  in  Section  I.)  passed  in  review 
the  various  phases  through  which  the  vernacular  speech  of  ITorthem 
India  has  gone  since  it  began  to  deviate  from  the  forms  of  its  parent 
Sanskrit.  Commencing  with  the  provincial  dialects  of  our  own  day, 
the  Hindi,  Mahratti,  Bengali,  etc.,  which  diverge  the  most  widely 
from  the  original  tongue,  I  have  attempted  to  ascend,  successively, 
from  the  more  recent  to  the  more  ancient  mediaeval  vernaculars,  and  to 
trace  backwards  their  gradual  approach  in  form  and  structure  to  the 
language  of  the  Vedas.  In  Section  I.  the  modern  vernaculars  are 
considered.  In  Sections  II. — IV.  the  dialects  entitled  Prakrit  are 
described ;  and  it  has  there  been  proved  that  they  were  either  them- 
selves the  spoken  tongues,  or  at  least  closely  akin  to  the  spoken  tongues, 
of  northern  India  before  the  modern  vernaculars  came  into  existence, 
and  shown,  by  a  variety  of  illustrations,  that  the  former  approach  much 
more  closely  to  the  Sanskrit  than  the  latter.  In  Section  V.  an  account 
has  been  given  of  the  Pali ;  and  it  has  been  demonstrated  at  length 
that  it,  in  its  turn,  is  more  ancient  in  its  grammatical  forms  than  the 
Prakrits  are,  and  departs  less  widely  than  they  do  from  the  Sanskrit. 
In  Section  VI.  I  have  supplied  some  description  of  the  language  em- 
ployed in  the  rock  inscriptions  of  Piyadasi  ;  by  which  it  is  put  beyond 
a  doubt  that  different  dialects  resembling  the  Pali  were  in  vernacular 

"^  [If  by  the  DraTidi  is  meant  the  Telugu,  or  any  of  its  cognate  languages,  it  is 
a  mistake  to  class  it  with  the  northern  Prakfits. — J.M.] 


128  PROCESS  BY  "WHICH  THE  PEAKRITS 

use  in  northern  India  in  the  third  century  b.c.  And  finally,  in  Section 
VII.,  I  have  described  a  form  of  corrupt  Sanskrit  occurring  in  the 
Gathas  or  narrative  poems  in  which  the  actions  of  Buddha  were  re- 
counted at  a  period  apparently  preceding  the  Christian  era. 

It  is  not  necessary  that  I  should  be  able  to  point  out  the  exact 
relative  antiquity  of  the  Pali,  of  the  language  of  the  inscriptions,  and 
of  the  language  of  the  Gathas.  We  have  seen  (p.  59)  that  the  Pali 
has  some  grammatical  forms  which  are  older  than  those  of  the  inscrip- 
tions ;  and  vice  versd.  It  is  sufficient  to  say  that  all  these  three 
different  dialects  exhibit  a  form  of  Indian  speech  which  is  of  greater 
antiquity  than  the  Prakrits  of  the  dramatic  poems;  and  that  they 
illustrate  to  us  some  of  the  earliest  stages  of  the  process  by  which  the 
original  spoken  language  of  India,  i.e.  the  early  Sanskrit,  was  disinte- 
grated and  corrupted. 


Sect.  VIII. — On  the  original  use  of  Sanskrit  as  a  vernacula/r  tongiie; 
on  the  manner  in  which  the  Prakrits  arose  out  of  it,  and  on  the  period 
of  their  formation :  views  of  Professors  Weber,  Aufrecht,  Lassen,  and 
JBenfey. 

From  the  above  review  of  the  spoken  dialects  of  India,  commencing 
with  the  modern  vernaculars,  and  going  back  to  the  Prakrits  and  the 
Pali,  we  discover,  as  has  been  repeatedly  stated,  that  the  older  these 
dialects  are,  the  more  closely  do  they  resemble  the  Sanskrit,  in  the 
forms  of  the  words  themselves,  as  well  as  in  the  modes  of  their  declen- 
sion and.  conjugation.  Judging  by  the  great  differences  which  we  find 
between  the  modem  Indian  languages  and  the  oldest  forms  of  the 
vernacular  dialects,  and  by  the  gradual  changes  through  which  the 
latter  have  at  length  passed  into  the  former,  we  can  have  no  difficulty 
in  concluding  that  the  very  oldest  known  forms  of  the  Prakrits  also 
had,  in  earlier  ages,  undergone  similar  mutations,  and  had  at  one  time 
been  different  in  some  respects  from  the  languages  which  have  been 
handed  down  to  us :  and  that  the  further  back  these  dialects  went, 
the  fewer  and  smaller  were  their  deviations  from  the  oldest  forms  of 
Sanskrit,  tiU  they  at  length  merged  altogether  in  that  parent  language, 
and  were,  in  fact,  identical  with  it.    And  as  there  is  no  doubt  that 


AROSE  OUT  OF  THE  EARLIER  SANSKRIT.  129 

these  Prakrit  dialects,  in  the  oldest  forms  in  which  we  can  trace  them^ 
were  spoken  languages,  so  we  are  further  entitled  to  conclude  that  the 
Sanskrit  itself  was  at  one  time,  i.e.,  at  the  period  before  the  Prakrits 
broke  off  from  it,  a  vernaomlarly  spoken  language. 

Beforej  however,  proceeding  to  the  particular  proof  of  this,  T  shaJl 
■  first  of  all  present  some  general  speculations  of  Professors  Weber, 
Lassen,  Benfey,  and  Aufrecht,  on  the  anterior  elements  out  of  which 
the  Prakrits  (under  which  term  I  include  all  the  old  vernacular  lan- 
guages derived  from  Sanskrit)  were  developed,  and  the  process  by 
which  their  formation  was  effected. 

The  following  is  Professor  "Weber's  account  of  the  way  in  which  he 
conceives  the  Prakrits  to  have  arisen : —  "' 

"I  take  this  opportunity  of  once  more  declaring  myself  decidedly 
against  a  commonly  received  error.  It  has  been  concluded  (as  by  Spiegel 
against  Eoth)  from  the  existence  (in  inscriptions)  of  Prakrit  dialects 
in  the  centuries  immediately  preceding  our  era,  that  the  Sanskrit 
language  had  died  out  before  these  dialects  were  formed;  whereas 
we  must,  on  the  contrary,  regard  the  development  of  both  the  Sanskrit 
and  the  Prakrit  dialects  from  one  common  source,  viz.  the  Indo-Arian 

speech,  as  entirely  contemporaneous For  a  fuller  statement  of 

this  view  I  refer  to  my  '  Vajasaneyi  Sanhitae  Specimen,'  ii.,  204-6 ; 
and,  in  proof  of  what  I  have  urged  there,  I  adduce  here  the  fact  that 
the  principal  laws  of  Prakrit  speech,  viz.  assimilation,  hiatus,  and  a 
fondness  for  cerebrals  and  aspirates,  are  prominent  in  the  Vedas,  of 
which  the  following  are  examples :  kuta=krita,  E.  V.,  i.  46,  4 ; 
kata=karta  (above,  p.  30) :  geha=griha  (above,  p.  40) ;  guggulu= 
gungulu,  Katyay.,  5,  4,  17  ;  vivittyai=;vivishtyai,  Taitt.  Arany.,  x. 
58  (Drav.);  yavatsah  =  yavatyah,  S'atap.  Br.  ii.  2,  3,  4  (yavachah. 
Cod.  MUl.,  according  to  the  second  hand,  and  in  Sayana)  ;  krikalasa, 
Vrih.  Ar.  Ma.,  i.  3,  22=krikadasu,  Eik.,  i.  29,  7;  puroda^a= 
purolaia  (comp.  da^ru=lacryma) ;  padbhih=padbhih ;  k8hullaka= 
kshudraka  j  bhallaksha=bhadraksha,  Chhandogya,  6,  1  (gloss) ;  viki- 
rida=vikiridra  (above,  p.  31);  gabhasti=grabhasti,  or  garbhasti ; 
nighantu=nigranthu ;  ghas=gras;  bhanj=bhranj  (orbranj);  bhuj= 
bhruj  ;   bhand=blandus ;  bhas=bras.      In  the  latter  cases  an  r  has 

dropped  out,  after  it  had  aspirated  the  preceding  consonants 

"'  Indische  Studien,  ii.  p.  87,  note. 


130  VIEWS  OF  PEOFESSOR  WEBEE. 

Comparative  philology  exhibits  similar  phonetic  prakritizings  within 
the  circle  of  the  Indo-Germanic  languages  as  compared  the  one  with 
the  other."  The  same  writer  says  in  his  Vajas.  Sanh.  Specimen,  ii. 
203,  ff. :  '^  "  I  incline  to  the  opinion  of  those  who  deny  that  the 
Sanskrit  Bhasha,  properly  so  called,  was  ever  the  common  spoken 
language  of  the  whole  Arian  people,  and  assign  it  to  the  learned  alone. 
Just  as  our  modern  high-German,  arising  out  of  the  ancient  dialects 
of  the  Germans,  reduced  what  was  common  to  all  to  universal  rules 
and  laws,  and  by  the  power  of  analogy  obliterated  all  recollection  of 
varieties ;  and  just  as,  on  the  other  hand,  these  dialects,  while  they 
gradually  degenerated,  often  preserved  at  the  same  time  fuller  and 
more  ancient  forms ;  so  also  the  Vedic  dialects  became  partly  combined 
in  one  stream,  in  which  their  individual  existence  was  lost,  and  so 
formed  the  regular  Sanskrit  Bhasha,  and  partly  flowed  on  individually 
in  their  own  original  (Prakrita)  irregular  force,  and  continued  to  be 
the  idioms  of  different  provinces,  in  the  corruption  of  which  they 
participated.  The  Sanskrit  language  and  the  Prakrit  dialects  had, 
therefore,  a  common  and  simultaneous  origin :  the  latter  did  not 
spring  out  of  the  former,  but  rather,  being  connected  by  a  natural 
bond  with  the  ancient  language,  have  often  a  more  antique  fashion 
than  the  Sanskrit,  which,  being  shaped  and  circumscribed  by  the  rules 
of  grammarians,  has  sacrificed  the  truth  of  analogy  for  the  sake  of 
regularity.  The  Prakrit  tongues  are  nothing  else  than  ancient  Vedic 
dialects  in  a  state  of  degeneracy ;  while  the  Sanskrit  (or  Epic)  bhasha 
is  the  sum  of  the  Vedic  dialects  constructed  by  the  labour  and  zeal 
of  grammarians,  and  polished  by  the  skill  of  learned  men.  In  this 
way  we  obtain  an  explanation  of  two  facts :  1st,  That  the  very  same 
exceptions  which  are  conceded  by  grammarians  to  the  Yedic  language 
{ehhandas)  are  often  found  in  the  Prakrit  dialects,  being  in  fact  nothing 
but  original  forms;  and  2nd,  That  in  the  Vedic  writings,  forms  and 
words  occur  which  are  more  irregular  than  any  Sanskrit  word  could 
ever  be ;  for  as  yet  no  fixed  rules  of  euphony,  orthography,  or  forma- 
tion existed, — ^rules  which  were  eventually  deduced  in  part  from  those 
very  irregularities.  All  the  irregular  forms  which  prevail  in  the 
Prakrit  tongues  are  to  be  found  throughout  the  Vedas.  In  the  latter, 
the  faculty  which  creates  language  is  seen  exuberant  in  its  early  power, 
1^8  Reprinted  in  Indische  Studien,  ii.  pp.  110,  111. 


REMARKS  OF  PEOFESSOE  AUFEECHT.  131 

while  in  the  former  (the  Prakrits)  it  is  seen  in  the  degeneracy  of  full- 
blown licence,  luxuriating  wantonness,  and  at  last  of  senile  weakness. 
Assimilation,  the  hiatus,  and  a  fondness  for  cerebrals  and  aspirates, 
play  an  important  part  in  the  Vedas,  not  so  much  in  those  portions 
which  are  peculiar  to  the  Yajur-veda  (which,  as  forming  a  transition 
from  the  Vedic  to  the  Epic  period,  or  rather  itself  initiating  the  Epic 
period,  has  also  a  style  of  language  of  a  more  modem  cast,  and  adapted 
to  grammatical  rules),  as  in  the  older  forms  and  words  of  the  Eigveda, 
many  of  which  were  difficult  to  understand  in  the  age  of  the  Aitareya 
and  S'atapatha  Brahmanas  {paroxavrittayah :  comp.  Eoth,  p.  li.  Nighan- 
tavah).  There  occur  moreover  in  the  Epic  poems  many  words  which, 
however  corrupted,  have  been  received  into  the  Sanskrit  sometimes  with 
no  change,  sometimes  with  very  little,  from  the  Prakrit  languages  in 
use  among  the  greater  part  of  the  people.  Of  this  the  word  govinda  is 
a  clear  example,  which,  according  to  the  ingenious  conjecture  of  Gilde- 
meister,  is  nothing  but  gohinda  derived  from  gopendra." 

Professor  Aufrecht  has  favoured  me  with  the  following  remarks  on 
the  preceding  passages  : — "  I  consider  that  in  his  account  of  the  origin 
of  the  Prakrit  dialects.  Professor  Weber  goes  much  too  far  in  stating 
them  to  be  contemporaneous  with  the  Veda  dialect.  The  examples 
which  he  gives  are,  I  conceive,  partly  erroneous,  partly  collected  from 
late  books,  and  consequently  unsuited  to  establish  his  assertion.  I 
incline  to  the  opinion  that  the  language  of  the  Eigveda  was  at  one 
time  universally  spoken,  not  through  the  whole  of  India,  but  the 
Punjab,  that  is  in  the  original  seats  of  the  Arians.  The  dialects 
sprang  from  it,  on  the  one  hand,  because  the  greater  part  of  the  popu- 
lation were  non- Arians,  and  naturally  corrupted  a  language  which  was 
forced  upon  them.  On  the  other  part,  it  is  likely  that  the  conquerors 
were  forced  to  marry  S'udra  women  (hence  the  warning  against  such 
marriages  in  Manu),  who  introduced  the  vulgar  tongue  into  the  family. 
In  the  last  instance,  I  believe  that,  by  a  political  revolution,  the 
original  tribes  recovered  the  government,  and  that  then  the  language 
of  the  masses  began  to  prevail.  I  agree  with  Professor  Weber  in 
believing  that  Sanskrit  proper,  that  is,  the  language  of  the  Epic  poems, 
the  law  books,  nay  even  that  of  the  Brahmanas,  was  never  actually 
spoken,  except  in  schools  or  by  the  learned." 

This  theory  of  Professor  Weber,  even  if  it  were  correct,  would  not 


132  QUOTATIONS  FROM  PROFESSOR  LASSEN'S 

be  inconsistent  with  the  conclusion  which  I  hope  ultimately  to  estah- 
Bsh,  viz.,  that  the  language  out  of  which  the  Prakritg  grew  had  itself 
been  subject  to  mutation  prior  to  their  evolution  out  of  it.  It  would 
only  imply  that  no  one  such  language  as  Sanskrit  existed  during  the 
Vedic  era,  but  was  then  represented  by  a  number  of  what  (to  dis- 
tinguish them  from  the  Prakrits)  I  may  call  Sanskritic  dialects,  which, 
by  the  continued  action  of  a  modifying  process  all  along  at  work  in 
them,  were,  on  the  one  hand,  gradually  formed  into  the  dialects  which 
received  the  name  of  Prakrit,  while,  on  the  other  hand,  by  a  reverse 
process  of  aggregation  and  construction,  another  language  of  a  different 
character,  and  previously  non-existent,  became  developed  out  of  them, 
under  the  appellation  of  Sanskrit. 

Veber's  theory,  however,  taken  in  its  fnU.  extent,  appears  to  me  to 
be  disproved  by  the  fact  that,  in  its  forms,  the  Vedic  Sanskrit  is 
(excepting  some  archaisms)  nearly  identical  with  the  Epic,  while  it 
is  very  different  from  even  the  oldest  type  of  Prakrit.  It  is  no 
answer  to  this  that  some  old  Vedic  forms,  such  as  the  instrumental 
in  ebhis,  reappear  in  the  Prakrits ;  for  it  need  not  be  asserted  that,  at 
the  earliest  period  when  the  Prakyits  began  to  be  formed,  the  Sanskrit 
did  not  stiU  retain  many  of  its  Vedic  forms. 

I  will  now  adduce  two  quotations  of  considerable  length  from 
Lassen's  Indian  Antiquities,  vol.  ii.,  pp.  1147-1149,  and  1151-1153, 
on  the  history  of  the  languages  of  Northern  India,  in  the  course  of 
which  he  replies  to  the  preceding  observations  of  Weber. 

"The  inscription  of  the  Sinha  Prince  Eudradaman,  which  dates 
from  the  year  85  b.c,  is  written  in  Sanskrit  prose,  of  an  artificial 
character,  with  long  compound  words.  From  this  fact  we  may  infer 
that  Sanskrit  was  no  longer  spoken  by  the  common  people,  but  only 
by  the  Brahmans  and  other  persons  in  the  higher  classes." 

"It  has  been  already  shown  (p.  486)  that  in  A^oka'a  time  the 
common  people  spoke  dialects  derived  from  the  sacred  language,  and 
that,  at  that  time,  there  were  at  least  three  such  dialects ;  of  which 
one  prevailed  in  Eastern  India,  the  second  in  Guzerat,  and  the  third 
in  Eastern  Cabul.  The  existence  of  a  fourth,  of  which  the  seat  was 
perhaps  in  Upper  Eajasthan,  is  attested  by  the  inscription  of  Megha- 
vahana.  It  is  highly  probable  that  the  popular  Indian  dialects 
existed  at  &  still  earlier  period  than  this  [the  age  of  A^oka  was 


INDIAN  ANTIQUITIES.  133 

263-226  B.C.,  and  that  of  Meghavahana  110  A.r.'*»] ;  for  the  accounts 
of  Buddha's  sayings  and  doings  appear  to  have  existed  in  a  double 
form,  i.e.  both  in  the  vernacular  tongues  and  in  Sanskrit.  I  do  not 
venture  to  assume  that  the  vernacular  tongues  originated  much  earlier. 
It  is  indeed  true  that  we  find  in  the  Vedic  hymns  some  individual 
traces  of  those  corruptions  which  in  Prakrit  have  become  the  rule  and 
chai-acteristic  feature  of  the  language.  But  we  must  assume  a  long 
period  to  have  intervened  between  these  isolated  appearances  and  their 
full-blown  development,  as  exhibited  in  particular  local  dialects.  I 
do  not,  therefore,  believe  in  a  contemporaneous  development,  side  by 
side,  of  the  Sanskrit  and  the  Prakrit  tongues  out  of  the  one  common 
source  of  the  Indo-Arian  language ;  but  I  assume  that  it  was  not  till 
long  after  the  immigration  of  the  Indo-Aiians  that  the  Prakrits  were 

"9  Lassen,  App.  pp.  i.  xxiii.  I  add  another  passage  on  the  subject  of  the  muta- 
tions of  the  Sanskrit,  and  the  period  at  which  they  may  he  supposed  to  have 
arisen,  &om  Lassen's  work,  p.  692,  f.,  2nd  ed. :  "The  fact  now  established,  that  in 
Ai^oka's  time  Sanskrit  was  no  longer  the  general  vernacular  lai^age,  is  of  the 
greatest  importance  for  judging  of  the  older  literature.  As  As'oka  promulgated  his 
ordinances,  which  were  intended  for  the  entire  people,  not  in  Sanskrit,  but  in  three 
vernacular  dialects  differing  more  or  less  from  one  another,  it  follows  that  the  old 
mother-tongue  had  already  become  limited  to  a  smaller  tircle  of  the  population.  But 
such  a  corruption  of  language  is  not  the  work  of  a  few  years ;  the  Sanskrit  must 
have  begun  centuries  before  to  be  resolved  into  the  popular  dialects ;  we  will  not 
here  take  into  account  the  tradition  that  the  Buddhists  from  the  commencement 
announced  their  new  doctrine  in  Prakrit.  The  Epic  poems  nowhere  allude  to  the 
different  classes  of  auditors  being  unable  to  understand  each  other  :  nor  have  I  yet 
found  any  reference  to  a  diversity  of  speech  among  the  Aryans.  The  Epic  language 
now  is  manifestly  the  product  of  speech  still  fresh,  flexible,  and  living  in  the  mouth 
of  the  people ;  we  can  point  out  the  first  beginnings  of  the  Epic  style  and  versifica- 
tion in  the  Upanisbads  and  in  the  hymns  of  the  Yeda,  and  can  thus  establish  the 
high  antiquity  of  this  style.  In  the  Sanskrit  literature  subsequent  to  Anoka's 
time,  even  in  the  oldest  inscriptions,  we  find  the  artificial  language  of  later  ages  ; 
and  the  same  is  the  ease  in  the  dramas,  which  belong  to  this  later  period,  in  which 
we  also  meet  with  vernacular  dialects  for  the  lower  orders.  Although  the  Epic 
style  is  still  maintained  in  this  later  age,  it  is  easily  seen,  as  in  the  Furanas,  that  a 
living  stream  of  speech  does  not  flow  here ;  just  as  in  the  case  of  Apollonius  and 
Callimachus,  we  perceive  that  they  had  not  learnt  the  Homeric  dialect  from  their 
nurses ;  the  language  is  a  learned,  though  often  very  clever,  imitation.  These 
considerations  convince  me  that  the  Epic  style  was  completely  formed  before  the 
time  of  As'oka,  and  even  much  earlier,  and  that  we  have  it  before  us  in  its  original 
genuineness.  Hence  I  believe  also  that  on  the  score  of  language  no  vaUd  objection 
can  be  alleged  against  the  position  that  after  the  critical  separation  of  later 
elements,  we  possess  in  the  Epic  poems  a  rich  and  genuine  store  of  ancient  and 
genuine  tradition." 


134  QUOTATIONS  FROM  PEOFESSOE  LASSEN'S 

formed  in  the  several  provinces  of  India.  I  further  regard  it  as  im- 
probable that  the  Prakrits  arose  out  of  one  particular  dialect  of  the 
Sanskrit ;  for  no  dialects  of  the  Sanskrit  have  yet  been  pointed  out. 
An  account  is  to  be  found,  it  is  true,  in  an  ancient  record,  according 
to  which  the  Sanskrit  had  been  preserved  in  greater  purity  in  the 
northern  countries  than  elsewhere,  and  Kashmir  and  Badari,  at  the 
source  of  the  Ganges,  are  specified  by  the  commentator  as  such  regions. 
This,  however,  is  not  sufficient  to  prove  that  in  the  different  provinces 
of  India  there  were  then  fundamental  differences  in  the  sacred  lan- 
guage. 

"ITo  conclusion  in  regard  to  the  existence  of  dialectic  varieties  in 
the  Sanskrit  can  be  drawn  from  the  fact  that  the  Prakrit  dialects  have 
all  preserved  the  form  of  the  instrumental  plural  in  hi  (derived  from 
hhis),  in  words  ending  in  a,  while  the  modern  Sanskrit  has  lost  this 
form;  for  the  ancient  form  in  ebhis  is  not  peculiar  to  any  particular 
Vedic  writings.  The  preservation  of  this  form  only  proves  that  the 
Prakrit  dialects  began  to  be  formed  at  an  early  period,  when  the 
termination  in  question  was  in  frequent  use.  The  early  adoption, 
too,  into  Sanskrit  of  words  which  had  become  modified  according  to 
the  laws  of  the  Prakrit  dialects,  testifies,  not  so  much  to  the  early 
creation  of  popular  dialects  widely  different  from  each  other,  as  to 
the  mere  beginnings  of  such.  We  have  to  regard  the  causes  of  the 
varieties  in  the  Indian  dialects  as  twofold.  The  first  is  that  general 
one,  which  has  operated  also  in  other  languages,  and  which  is  indeed 
the  principal,  viz.,  those  peculiarities  connected  with  the  abodes  and 
the  character  of  the  tribes  into  which  a  people  becomes  divided.  The 
reason  why  they  have  so  operated,  as  they  actually  have,  is  in  indi- 
vidual instances  often  difficult,  nay,  impossible,  to  assign.  In  this 
way,  five  principal  modern  languages,  the  Provengal,  French,  Portu- 
guese, Spanish,  and  Italian,  have  arisen  out  of  the  Latin.  Of  these 
languages,  the  second,  the  fourth,  and  the  fifth  are  rich  in  dialects. 
The  second  cause  is  (as  has  been  akeady  noticed)  a  special  one, — I 
mean  the  influence  exercised  on  the  Prakrit  dialects  by  the  languages 
of  the  aboriginal  tribes  adopted  into  the  Indian  political  system,  who 
discarded  their  own  form  of  speech  and  adopted  the  Indo-Arian  lan- 
guage of  the  province  in  which  they  dwelt.  These  aboriginal  tribes 
contributed,  in  some  instances,  to  introduce  peculiar  varieties  into  the 


INDIAN  ANTIQUITIES.  135 

Prakrit  dialects.  "When  these  aborigines  were  particularly  savage  and 
uncultivated,  it  could  scarcely  fail  to  happen  that  they  occasioned  very 
great  corruptions  of  sound  and  form  in  the  Indo-Arian  languages." 

The  second  passage  is  as  follows  : — 

"It  is  in  the  period  with  which  we  are  now  occupied  (i.e.  that 
between  Vikramaditya  and  the  later  Gupta  kings)  that  the  appellations 
Sanskrit  for  the  classical  language,  and  Prakrit  for  the  forms  of  speech 
springing  from  it,  must  have  arisen;  because  it  was  now  that  the 
distinction  between  the  classical  language  (which  was  no  longer  em- 
ployed as  a  spoken  tongue  except  by  the  Brahmans  and  highest  classes) 
and  the  popular  dialects  became  decidedly  marked.  It  has  been 
maintained  that  Sanskrit  was  never  the  common  popular  dialect  of 
the  Arian  Indiana,  but  owed  its  origin  only  to  the  learned ;  and  that 
the  Vedic  dialects  coalesced,  on  the  one  hand,  in  a  single  language, 
and  so  created  the  regular  Sanskrit,  in  which  they  were  lost ;  and  on 
the  other  hand,  in  virtue  of  their  inherent  character,  became  corrupted 
and  irregular,  and  in  this  corrupt  form  continued  to  exist  as  the 
vernacular  dialects  of  particular  provinces.  I  must  dissent  from  this 
view  on  the  following  groilnds:  First,  it  has  not  yet  been  proved 
(as  I  have  already,  p.  1148,  observed)  that  there  were  any  different 
dialects  in  the  Vedic  language.  To  prove  that  there  were,  it  must 
be  shown  that  in  contemporaneous  Yedic  writings  there  are  found 
variations  of  such  an  essential  character  as  to  justify  us  in  assuming 
a  variety  of  dialects:  varieties  observable  in  writings  belonging  to 
different  ages  only  show  that  there  was  a  progressive  departure  from 
an  earlier  condition  of  the  language.  Secondly,  it  is  necessary  that 
we  be  agreed  as  to  what  we  mean  by  language.  If  thereby  we  mean 
the  style  of  expression,  then  it  may  be  asserted  of  many  languages 
which  have  attained  a  higher  degree  of  perfection  by  being  employed 
in  literature  or  in  public  assemblies,  that  they  were  not  popular  lan- 
guages. The  Athenians  and  Eomans  certainly  did  not,  in  their 
ordinary  life,  express  themselves  in  the  same  style  in  which  their 
orators  spoke ;  and  we  Germans  permit  ourselves  to  make  use  of  many 
turns  of  expression  which  we  deny  ourselves  in  books.  So  too  we 
may  suppose  that  the  Indians  of  the  earliest  age  did  not  ordinarily 
speak  the  same  language  which  their  poets  employed.  If,  on  the 
other  hand,  by  language  we  mean  grammatical  forms,  I  cannot  see 


136       PEOFESSOR  BENFET  ON  THE  EAELT  USE 

why  the  IndianB  should  not  in  the  earliest  ages  have  made  use  of  the 
same  as  the  contemporary  poets  employed.  This  certainly  was  the 
case  also  in  the  succeeding  periods.  To  this  it  must  he  added  that 
Panini,  the  oldest  of  the  three  grammarians  who  are  styled  sMirts, 
uses  the  word  Ihasha  (speech)  to  designate  the  ordinary  language  in 
contradistinction  to  the  Vedic,  and  employs  as  synonymous  with 
hMsMyam  the  word  lolce,  i.e.  in  the  world.  The  language  which 
the  Sanskrit^speaking  Indians  then  spoke  cannot,  therefore,  have 
been  different  from  this  hhdsha,  or  current  form  of  speech.  Its  fate 
in  contrast  to  that  of  its  daughters  has  been  a  peculiar  one.  Whilst 
among  the  txreeks  the  Attic  dialect  became  the  general  language  of 
prose  composition,  ....  and  the  other  dialects  became  less  and  less 
prominent,  ....  and  whilst  in  Germany  the  new  high-'German,  from 
its  use  in  literature  and  education,  has  more  and  more  superseded  the 
popular  dialects,  the  sacred  speech  of  the  Brahmans,  on  the  contrary, 
continued  to  lose  ground,  not  so  much  in  local  extension,  as  in  its 
employment  by  the  different  classes  of  the  population  in  the  same 
countries.  It  may  be  assumed  that  in  the  time  of  A^oka  the  greater 
part  of  the  people  in  the  countries  inhabited  by  Arian  Indians  spoke 
the  local  ^alects,  and  that  only  the  Brahmans  and  the  principal 
persons  spoke  Sanskrit.  On  this  circumstance  the  distribution  of  the 
dialects  in  the  dramas  rests.  As  the  kings  who  were  inclined  to  the 
Buddhist  religion  permitted  only  the  popular  dialects  to  be  used  in 
their  inscriptions  and  coins,  it  becomes  probable  that  they  did  the 
same  thing  in  their  decrees,  and  for  other  purposes." 

The  following  remarks  relating  to  the  early  extension  and  vernacular 
employment  of  Sanskrit,  to  its  subsequent  disuse  as  a  spoken  language, 
and  to  its  ultimate  resuscitation  in  a  somewhat  modified  form,  as  a 
refined  and  sacred  dialect,  are  translated,  with  occasional  abridgment, 
from  Prof.  Benfey's  article  on  India  (above  referred  to),  p.  245,  ff. : — 
"The  language  which  we  now  call  Sanskrit  was  once,  as  both  the 
ancient  and  modem  dialects  which  have  issued  from  it  distinctly  show, 
the  prevalent  popular  speech  in  the  greatest  part  of  India.  Alongside 
of  it  there  existed  in  the  remotest  times  several  dialects  of  one  or 
more  languages,  not  related  to  it,  of  the  aborigines  of  India;  which 
languages  had  at  first  a  wider,  and  in  later  times  a  continually  de- 
creasing, extension.    The  period  when  Sanskrit  began  to  spread  itself 


AND  SUBSEQUENT  DISUSE  OF  SANSKRIT  AS  A  VEENACULAE.      137 

over  India  cannot  be  decided  any  more  than  the  era  of  the  immigra- 
tion of  the  people  who  spoke  it.  "We  can  only  determine  the  follow- 
ing points:  First,  in  regard  to  extension;  (1)  the  Sanskrit  once 
prevailed  over  a  considerable  tract  west  of  the  Indus,  as  is  shown 
both  by  many  geographical  names  in  those  regions,  by  the  accounts  of 
Chinese  travellers,  and  by  the  languages  which  are  now  found  existing 
there;  (2)  to  the  north,  the  Sanskrit  or  its  dialects  prevailed  as  far 
as  the  Himalaya  and  the  Indian  Caucasus;  (3)  to  the  east,  in  the 
time  of  Asoka,  as  far  as  the  region  of  the  Brahmaputra,  though  this 
region  was  not  entirely  Sanskritized ;  (4)  to  the  south,  Sanskrit 
exercised  nearly  its  full  sway  as  far  as  the  southern  frontiers  of 
Maharashtra:  this  is  proved  by  the  fact  that  one  of  the  dialects 
which  are  most  decidedly  of  Sanskrit  origin,  namely,  the  Prakrit 
pre-eminently  so  named,  is  also  called  the  language  of  Maharashtra, 
and  is  manifestly  the  parent  of  the  modern  Mahratti;  (5)  Sanskrit 
penetrated  still  further  to  the  south,  where  it  formed  the  language  of 
educated  people :  but  this  occurred  at  a  time  when  the  Sanskrit- 
speaking  race  had  not  sufficient  power  entirely  to  expel  the  indigenous 
language,  as  they  were  able  to  do  in  Northern  India  with  a  very  few 
isolated  exceptions. 

"Second,  as  to  the  time  when  Sanskrit  was  the  language  of  the 
people  we  can  determine  as  follows :  We  find  in  Anoka's  time  two 
vernacular  dialects,  one  in  Guzerat,  and  the  other  in  Magadha,  which, 
as  their  entire  structure  shows,  could  not  have  existed  alongside  of, 
i.e.  contemporaneously  with,  the  Sanskrit,  but  must  have  become 
further  developed  in  those  provinces  after  the  Sanskrit  had  previously 
prevailed  there  :  consequently  the  Sanskrit  must  have  died  out  before 
A^oka,  who  lived  in  the  third  century  B.C.,  and  therefore  about  three 
centuries  after  the  period  to  which  the  rise  of  Buddhism  may  with 
great  probability  be  assigned.  Now  it  is  related  to  us  of  the  first 
Buddhists,  that  they  composed  their  books  not  in  Sanskrit,  but  in  the 
vernacular  dialects.  The  sacred  language  of  Buddhism  is  the  Pali, 
which,  though  varying  in  many  particulars  from  the  language  of 
Magadha,  and  approximating  to  the  principal  Prakrit  (the  Maha- 
rashtri),  stands  yet  in  a  similar  relation  to  the  Sanskrit  as  the  latter, 
and  the  two  dialects  of  Asoka's  inscriptions.  It  becomes,  therefore, 
highly  probable  that  at  the  period  when  Buddhism  arose,  i.e.  about 

VOL.  II.  10 


138  DISUSE  OF  SANSKRIT  AS  A  VEENACULAR 

the  sixth  century  B.C.,  Sanskrit  was  no  longer  the  speech  of  the 
people.  The  entire  character  of  Sanskrit  shows  that,  at  the  time  of 
its  acme,  it  was  fixed  by  means  of  something  resembling  a  literature, 
and  it  is  only  on  this  supposition  that  we  can  comprehend  how  it 
appears  in  regions  so  far  apart  as  the  north  and  north-west  of  India 
and  the  Mahratta  country,  as  a  perfectly  uniform  basis  of  the  dialects 
which  sprang  out  it.  But  a  speech  which  becomes  fixed  in  such  a 
manner  does  not  soon  die  out.  If  we  assume  about  three  centuries 
for  the  time  of  its  gradual  extinction,  the  period  when  Sanskrit  was 
the  ordinary  language  of  the  people  is  thrown  back  to  about  the  ninth 
century  before  Christ.  During  this  and  the  immediately  preceding 
period  there  existed,  as  we  have  already  conjectured,  a  political  union 
which  embraced  the  entire  Indian  empire ;  and  as  we  now  know  that 
Sanskrit  must  have  been  the  actual  speech  of  the  people  in  the 
Mahratta  country  also  at  this  period,  we  may  conceive  this  political 
union  to  have  extended  from  the  Himalaya  to  the  south  of  the 
Mahratta  country.  After  this  political  unity  had  become  severed 
(tUl  the  period  of  its  restoration  under  Chandragupta),  the  various 
elements  of  Indian  life  became  separately  developed  in  the  different 
provinces;  and  this  was  the  case  with  the  Sanskrit,  too,  which  up 
to  that  time  had  been  common  to  all.  Out  of  this  variety  of  local 
developments  which  the  Sanskrit  underwent,  its  different  derivative 
languages  arose,  the  earliest  forms  of  which  bore  about  the  same 
relation  to  Sanskrit  as  the  Romanic  dialects  to  Latin. 

"  But  while  the  Sanskrit  was  being  thus  developed  and  modified  by 
popular  use  into  new  vernacular  dialects,  the  literature  which  had 
been  created  in  Sanskrit  while  it  was  yet  a  living  tongue  was  stiU 
preserved  in  the  schools'^"  of  the  Brahmans,  and  along  with  it  the 
Sanskrit  itself  as  the  sacred  language  of  culture  and  science.  When 
aroused  to  new  energy  by  the  attack  made  upon  their  system  by  the 
Buddhists,  the  Brahmans  came  forward  with  certain  writings  composed 
in  this  sacred  language,  and  declared  to  be  of  primeval  antiquity :  one 
of  the  earliest  of  these  was  the  Institutes  of  Manu ;  and  then  followed 

ISO  "Though  we  have  no  distinct  external  evidence  that  there  were  any  such 
schools  at  this  early  period,  we  may  yet  appeal  to  the  whole  intellectual  development 
of  Indian  life,  in  the  form  which  it  must  have  taken  even  before  the  rise  of  Buddhism, 
as  evidence  of  their  existence." 


ANB  EMPLOYMENT  OF  IT  AS  A  LEARNED  LANGUAGE.   139 

the  Bamajana.  But  external  grounds,  as  well  as  the  mention  which 
they  make  of  the  Tavanas  (Greeks),  prove  these  works  to  have  been 
composed  at  a  much  later  period  than  that  to  which  they  are  alleged 
to  belong.  In  like  manner  the  treatment  of  the  language  in  these 
books,  and  still  more  in  the  Sanskrit  literature  which  follows,  and  is 
connected  with  them,  demonstrates  that  they  cannot  possibly  have 
proceeded  from  a  popular  dialect,  but,  on  the  contrary,  are  the  pro- 
ducts of  a  learned,  or  rather  a  sacred  language,  which,  having  died 
out  among  the  mass  of  the  people,  had  been  preserved  in  the  circle 
of  the  educated  priesthood  as  the  medium  of  intercourse  with  the 
gods,  and  of  communicating  the  sacred  sciences,  and  was  cultivated 
with  the  liveliest  zeal  and  devotion.  Out  of  this  circle  again  Sanskrit 
passed  over  to  thpse  persons  who  stood  in  connexion  with  the  priests 
as  members  of  the  same  administrative  caste,  "When  the  Brahmans 
recovered  their  predominance,  Sanskrit  became  for  a  time  the  lan^ 
guage  of  the  educated  classes,  of  the  court,  and  the  administration '" 
generally :  and  even  the  Buddhists  could  not  abstain  from  employing 
so  valuable  an  instrument  of  cultivation.  We  have  only  to  recollect 
the  manner  in  which  the  Latin,  though  long  a  dead  language,  re- 
mained in  use  throughout  the  middle  ages,  and  even  in  our  own  time, 
in  order  to  perceive  clearly  how  the  Sanskrit  also,  though  it  had  died 
out  as  a  vernacular  tongue  between  the  ninth  and  sixth  centuries  B.C., 
should  yet  have  held  its  ground  in  the  highest  circles,  aod  continued 
in  use  there  to  such  an  extent  that  it  can  even  now  be  employed  as 
an  instrument  for  the  expression  of  thought  on  the  highest  subjects. 
The  Sanskrit  had,  however,  here  an  important  advantage  over  the 
Latin  in  this  respect,  that  wherever  BWahmanism  prevailed  it  was 
regarded  as  a  sacred  language,  as  aU  the  most  sacred  books  of  that 
religion  were  composed  in  it.  In  consequence  of  this  opinion,  it  was 
considered  a  religious  merit  to  be  even  acquainted  with  it;  and  a 
Sanskrit  grammar,  or  other  work  which  contributed  to  a  knowledge 
of  this  language,  was  and  is  looked  upon  as  a  sacred  book.  In  the 
same  way  a  knowledge  of  Hebrew  was  long  preserved  among  th* 

151  ^\ye  jiaye  another  instance  of  a  language  not  vemaeular  in  India  being  used 
as  the  language  of  administration,  in  the  Persian,  which,  though  unintelligible  to  the 
mass  of  the  people,  was  used  by  the  Mahomedans,  and  after  them,  for  many  years 
(until  about  thirty  years  ago),  by  the  English,  as  the  language  of  the  law  courts  and 
the  revenue  offices. — J.M.] 


140  DIFFERENCES  BETWEEN  THE  EARLIER 

Jews ;  and  even  so  late  as,  perhaps,  sixty  years  ago,  no  one  among 
them  could  lay  claim  to  the  character  of  a  learned  man  unless  he  had 
learnt  the  '  sacred  language.'  "  .  .  .  . 

"At  the  period  when  the  dramatic  literature  assumed  its  fixed  form 
(a  period  which  cannot  yet  he  determined,  hut  which  may  he  con- 
jecturally  placed  in  the  sixth  or  seventh  century  a.d.),  the  knowledge 
of  Sanskrit  must  have  extended,  on  the  one  hand,  to  all  who  laid  claim 
to  the  character  of  educated  men,  for  otherwise  the  dramatic  poets 
could  not  have  composed  in  Sanskrit  the  leading  parts  in  plays  de- 
signed for  representation  hefore  the  entire  public;  and  on  the  other 
hand  it  must  have  been  constantly  used  as  the  language  of  public 
documents,  of  religion,  and  of  learned  men,  for  otherwise  it  could 
scarcely  have  been  put  into  the  mouth  of  gods,  kings,  and  priests. 
"Whether  Sanskrit  was  at  that  time  the  proper  court-language,  I 
cannot  determine ;  but  I  scarcely  think  it  was,  as  the  officers  of  the 
state,  if  not  Brahmans,  do  not  use  it." 

Professor  Benfey  then  proceeds  to  specify  the  differences  between 
the  ancient  form  of  the  Sanskrit  when  it  was  still  a  vernacular  lan- 
guage, and  the  later  form  which  it  took  after  its  regeneration  as  a 
eaored  and  learned  form  of  speech,  so  far  as  he  considered  himself  in 
a  position  to  do  so  at  a  period  (1840)  when  he  had  before  him  but  a 
small  portion  of  the  Yedas,  which  furnish  us  with  almost  the  only 
means  we  can  have  of  judging  what  the  earlier  language  was."''  He 
remarks :  "  The  late  Sanskrit  is  distinguished  from  the  Vedic  by  the 
use  of  extravagantly  long  compounds.  Even  if  the  specimens  of  the 
Vedas  and  the  Upanishads  which  are  known  to  me  had  not  shown 
that  in  this  respect  there  is  an  essential  difference  in  the  use  of  the 
Sanskrit  at  the  two  periods  to  which  I  refer,  it  might  have  been 
concluded  with  certainty,  from  the  character  and  length  of  these 
compounds,  that  such  monstrosities  could  not  have  been  created  at  a' 

IS''  Had  these  observations  been  written  now,  Professor  Benfey  would  probably 
have  seen  no  cause  to  modify  his  main  conclusions,  though  he  would  have  been  in  a 
position  to  express  himself  with  greater  confidence  and  precision.  [Note  in  first 
edition,  I860.]  In  his  review  of  the  first  edition  of  this  work  in  the  Got).  Gel. 
Anzeigen,  already  referred  to,  p.  135,  Prof.  Benfey  writes  as  follows  :  "  I  would,  now 
that  the  differences  between  the  Vedic  language  and  the  Sanskrit,  which  was  formed 
by  a  process  of  regeneration,  are  more  exactly  known,  say  Vedic  or  old[-Sanaki-it 
instead  of  Sanskrit]."     See  Weber's  remark  above,  p.  68. 


AND  THE  LATER  SANSKRIT.  141 

time  when  the  language  was  in  vernacular  use.  Such  compounds 
might  occasionally  have  heen  used  with  effect ;  hut  a  living  language 
would  have  energetically  rejected  such  an  ahuse  of  these  forms  as  we 
find  in  the  late  Sanskrit  writings,  which  renders  all  easy  comprehension 
impossihle.  On  the  other  hand,  the  effort  to  employ  such  compounds 
was  quite  suitahle  to  a  learned  language,  and  to  a  learned  poetry, 
which  was  far  removed  from  the  real  life  of  the  people.  In  like 
manner  the  laws  of  Sandhi,  as  practised  in  its  widest  extent  in  later 
Sanskrit,  must  have  been  equally  foreign  to  the  ancient  vernacular 
Sanskrit.  In  late  Sanskrit  all  the  words  of  a  sentence  are  combined 
in  one  immense  whole  by  the  assimilation,  or  other  connexion,  of  their 
final  and  initial  letters.  This  rule  does  not,  in  general,  prevail  in  the 
Vedas;  and  although  it  is  well  known  that  in  actual  discourse  the 
final  and  initial  letters  of  words  exercise  a  certain  modifying  influence 
upon  each  other,  every  one  who  has  considered  the  limited  extent  to 
which  a  vernacular  dialect,  and  even  a  literary  work  composed  in  such 
a  dialect,  can  obey  this  law,  and  who,  at  the  same  time,  knows  to 
what  extremes  the  modern  Sanskrit  pushes  the  application  of  this  rule, 
will  be  convinced  that  the  excessive  employment  of  Sandhi  cannot  have 
sprung  out  of  any  popular  use,  but  must  have  resulted  from  carrying 
out  to  an  absurd  extent  a  grammatical  canon  which  is  correct  in  itself. 
"Further,  when  the  later  Sanskrit  is  accurately  examined,  it  is 
found  to  be  affected  in  a  most  important  degree  by  the  influence  of  the 
popular  dialects  derived  from  the  more  ancient  Sanskrit.  The  Indians, 
with  their  genius  for  grammar,  or  philology  generally,  were  in  general 
well  aware  of  the  modifications  which  the  ancient  language  had  re- 
ceived from -the  dialects  which  had  been  developed  out  of  it :  they  had 
investigated  the  phonetic  laws  by  which  these  dialects  had  been  derived 
from  their  parent,  and  could,  as  it  were,  transport  the  former  back  to 
the  latter.  This  facility  threw  them  off  their  guard;  and  it  conse- 
quently becomes  possible  for  us  to  demonstrate  that  the  Sanskrit  of 
the  whole  Indian  literature  subsequent  to  Mann's  Institutes,  cannot 
be  in  all  respects  the  ancient  language  of  the  people,  with  a  degree  of 
distinctness  which  none  of  the  Sanskrit  authors,  convinced  as  they 
were  that  they  were  wndting  correct  ancient  Sanskrit,  could  have 
imagined.  I  must  confine  myself  here  to  exhibiting  the  principal 
elements  of  this  proof.     It  is  divisible  into  two  parts;   as  we  must 


142  WHEN  SANSKRIT  CEASED  TO  BE  SPOKEN. 

(1)  maintain  ttat  tke  new  Sanskrit  has  lost"'  muoh  which  the  older 
Sanskrit  had,  and  which  it  could  only  lose  from  the  circumstance  that 
it  had  died  out  la  the  intermediate  period,  and  had  now  to  be  revived 
in  a  form  which  might  be  as  intelligible  as  possible.  To  this  head 
belong  a  number  of  roots  and  inflected  forms  which  the  grammarians 
recognize  and  adduce  partly  as  current,  and  partly  as  obsolete,  but  of 
which  the  later  Sanskrit  makes  next  to  no  use.  The  reason  of  this 
is  that  these  roots,  as  well  as  these  inflected  forms,  were  either  entirely 
lost  in  the  vernaculai  dialects  which  existed  at  the  time  when  the  new 
Sanskrit  was  created,  or  had  become  so  disfigured  that  their  Sanskrit 
form  could  not  have  been  easily  discovered  or  understood.  (2)  The 
new  Sanskrit  contains  in  it  much  that  the  old  Sanskrit  could  not  have 
had.  To  this  head  belong  a  number  of  forms  of  roots  which  had 
become  modified  according  to  the  laws  of  some  one  vernacular  dialect, 
and  which  have  been  employed  in  the  new  Sanskrit  in  this  modified 
shape,  which  the  grammarians  either  hesitated  to  refer  to  its  proper 
Sanskrit  form,  or  did  not  comprehend.  Every  single  example  of  this 
which  might  be  adduced  would,  however,  require  detailed  development 
and  proof,  which  would  demand  too  much  space  to  be  here  attempted. 
"I  will,  therefore,  content  myself  with  repeating  the  main  results 
of  the  investigations  which  have  been  here  merely  indicated,  and  in 
great  part  yet  remain  to  be  carried  out.  These  results  are :  That 
from  the  period  when  the  Sanskrit-speaking  race  immigrated  into 
India  down  to  perhaps  the  niath  century  B.C.,  Sanskrit  became  diffused 
as  the  prevailing  vernacular  dialect  over  the  whole  of  Hindustan,  as 
far  as  the  southern  borders  of  the  Mahratta  country.  It  penetrated 
no  further  south  as  a  vernacular  tongue,  but  only  as  the  language  of 
education,  and  apparently  at  a  later  period.  Prom  the  ninth  century 
B.C.  the  Sanskrit  began  to  die  out:   derivative  dialects  became  de- 

153  li  The  Sanskrit  has  lost  a  great  many  yerbal  roots,  and  has  frequently 
modified  the  original  meaning  of  those  still  in  existence." — Anfrecht,  Unadisutras, 
pref.  p.  viii.  "  In  the  course  of  time  some  branches  of  literature  disappeared,  a 
number  of  words  became  antiquated,  and  the  tradition  as  to  their  meaning  was  either 
entirely  lost  or  corrupted.  When  commentators  arose  to  explain  the  tTnadisutras," 
— supposed  by  Professor  Aufrecht  (p.  ix.)  to  he  considerably  older  than  Panini, — 
"  they  found  the  greater  part  of  the  words  contained  in  them  still  employed  in  the 
literature  of  their  age,  or  recorded  in  older  dictionaries.  But  an  unknown  residuum 
remained,  and  to  these,  whenever  tradition  failed  them,  they  were  bold  enough  to 
assign  quite  Arbitrary  significations." — Ibid.  pp.  yi.  xii. 


ME.  BEAMES  ON  THE  PRAKRITS  AND  OLD-ARTAN.  143 

veloped  from  it ;  and  in  the  sixth  century  B.C.  it  had  become  extinct 
as  a  vernacular  language.  On  the  other  hand,  it  maintained  its  ground 
in  the  schools  of  the  Brahmans.  About  the  third  century  b.c,  in 
consequence  of  the  regeneration  of  Brahmanism  in  Kanouj,  it  was 
brought  back  into  public  life  as  a  sacred  language,  and  gained  a 
gradually  increasing  importance  as  the  organ  of  all  the  higher  in- 
tellectual development.  About  the  fifth  century  ad  ,  it  had  become 
diflpused  in  this  character  over  the  whole  of  India.  So  long  as  the 
empire  of  the  Hindus  lasted,  it  continued  to  increase  in  estimation;  and 
even  long  after  the  Mahomedans  had  settled  in  India,  it  was  almost  the 
sole  instrument  for  the  expression  of  the  highest  intellectual  efforts." 

I  conclude  this  section  by  quoting  from  an  article  by  Mr.  Beames 
in  the  Journal  of  the  Eoyal  Asiatic  Society  for  1870,  vol.  v.,  new 
series,  pp.  149,  f.,  the  following  remarks  on  the  relation  of  the 
Prakrits  to  the  "  Old- Aryan"  language  : — 

"  In  assuming  that  the  languages  of  the  first  period  "  (the  Prakrits 
and  Pali)  "are  later  than  Sanskrit,  I  do  not  lose  sight  of  the  fact 
that  historically  they  were  contemporaneous  with  it.  But  I  call  them 
'  neo- Aryan,'  because  the  majority  of  their  forms  exhibit  a  decadence 
from  some  more  perfect  condition.  It  is  true  that,  not  only  in  classical, 
but  even  in  Vedic,  Sanskrit  forms  are  found  which  exhibit  a  perfect 
Prakrit  type;  but  this  does  not  prevent  the  general  run  of  Prakrit 
from  showing  unmistakable  signs  of  having  degenerated  from  a  purer 
and  stronger  ancient  language,  which  we  cannot  call  Sanskrit,  because 
it  is  older  still  than  even  the  language  of  the  Vedas,  and  which  there- 
fore may,  when  necessary,  be  caUed  '  Old  Aryan.' 

"  It  is  a  highly  probable  theory  that  the  '  Old  Aryan,'  like  all  other 
languages,  began  to  be  modified  in  the  mouths  of  the  people  as  early 
as  the  Vedic  period,  and  that  the  Brahmans,  at  a  subsequent  date, 
in  order  to  prevent  the  further  degeneration  of  their  language,  polished, 
elaborated,  and  stiffened  it  into  the  classical  Sanskrit.  "W^e  cannot, 
however,  suppose  that  they  brought  any  new  material  into  the  lan- 
guage, but  simply  that  they  reduced  to  rule  what  was  till  then  vague 
and  irregular,  that  they  extended  to  the  whole  of  the  language  eu- 
phonic laws  which  had  been  till  then  only  of  partial  application,  and 
so  forth ;  all  the  while,  however,  only  working  upon  already  existing 
materials.     It  will,  therefore,  not  militate  against  the  established  con- 


144  PROOFS  THAT  SANSKRIT 

temporaneous  existence  of  learned  Sanskrit  and  popular  Prakrit,  to 
consider  the  former  as  in  general  the  representative  of  the  original  Old 
Aryan,  and,  consequently,  as  so  far  older  than  the  Prakrit;  because, 
ex.  hypothesi,  in  Sanskrit  most  of  what  existed  in  Old  Aryan  has  not 
only  been  preserved,  but  worked  up  and  expanded,  while  in  the 
Prakrit,  on  the  contrary,  not  only  has  much  been  absolutely  lost,  but 
that  which  remains  has  been  corrupted  and  debased.  Besides,  as 
nothing  whatever  of  the  Old  Aryan  has  been  preserved,  or  is  likely  to 
be  discovered  (although  much  may  be,  and  has  been,  guessed  at  from 
analogy),  we  are  driven,  whether  we  like  it  or  no,  to  look  to  Sanskrit 
for  the  oldest  extant  forms ;  and  we  do,  undoubtedly,  find  them  there, 
as  contrasted  with  Prakrit  and  Pali.'"" 

Sect.  IX. — Reasons  for  supposing  tliat  the  SansTcrit  was  originally  a 
spoken  language. 

It  appears  from  the  passages  cited  from  the  works  of  Professors 
Lassen  and  Benfey,  that  these  distinguished  scholars  assume  that  the 
Sanskrit  (by  which,  no  doubt,  must  be  understood  a  language  in  some 
respects  different  from  the  later  Sanskrit,  and  more  akin  to  the  Vedic 
dialect)  was  once  a  spoken  tongue,  regarding  this  as  a  fact  which 
admits  of  no  question :  while  Professor  "Weber  is  of  opinon  that  the 
only  Indo-Arian  speech  which  existed  at  the  early  period  to  which 
I  refer  had  not  yet  been  developed  into  Sanskrit,  but  was  stiU.  a 
vernacular  tongue."*  As,  however,  what  seems  so  clear  to  the  Euro- 
pean scholar, — viz.,  that  Sanskrit  in  its  earlier  form  was  a  spoken  lan- 
guage,— may  not  be  so  plain  to  the  Indian  reader,  it  becomes  necessary 
for  me  to  adduce  the  most  distinct  evidence  of  the  fact  which  I  am 
able  to  discover. 

'8*  With  reference  to  a  question  already  discussed,  see  pp.  31,  ff.,  I  add  the  follow- 
ing sentences  from  Mr.  Beames's  article,  p.  160 : — "With  regard  to  the  languages 
of  the  second  period,  it  must  be  explained  that  I  do  not  intend  to  touch  on  the 
ohscure  question  of  how  far  non-Aryan  elements  enter  into  their  composition. 
Much  there  is  which  is  still  doubtful,  but  this  is  admitted  on  all  hands,  that  a  very 
large  proportion  of  their  constituent  parts  is  of  Aryan  origin." 

'*'  Indische  Literaturgeschiohte,  p.  1.  His  words,  as  translated,  are  these : — 
"  In  its  earliest  period  the  Indo-Sryan  speech  had  not  yet  become  Sanskrit,  i.e.  the 
language  of  cultivated  men,  but  remained  still  a  vernacular  tongue,  whilst  in  its  second 
period,  the  people  spoke  not  Sanskrit  but  Prakritic  dialects,  which  had  been  developed 
out  of  the  ancient  Indo-&ryan  vernacular  contemporaneously  with  the  Sanskrit," 


"WAS  ORIGINALLY  A  VEENACULAE.  145 

Pirst: — ^Even  though,  we  assume,  as  we  must  do,  that  there  were, 
from  the  earliest  times,  other  forms  of  spoken  language  current  in 
India  besides  the  Sanskrit;  yet  these  would  be  the  dialects  of  the 
Dasyus,  or  non-Arian  tribes;  while  the  upper  classes  of  the  popula- 
tion of  the  Arian  race,  the  same  order  of  persons  who  in  after  times 
spoke  Prakrit,  must  have  been  in  the  habit  of  speaking  Sanskrit  (by 
which  must  be  understood  the  then  current  form  or  forms  of  the  Old 
Arian  speech)  a  few  ages  previously;  for,  in  fact,  no  other  Arian 
language  then  existed  in  India  which  they  could  have  used.  If 
languages  with  such  a  complicated  structure  as  the  PaU  and  the 
Prakrits  were  employed  in  common  conversation,  there  is  no  difficulty 
in  supposing  that  Sanskrit  too,  which  was  not  much  more  complex, 
should  have  been  spoken  by  ordinary  persons.  We  must  not,  of  course 
(as  Professor  Benfey  has  well  remarked  above,  p.  140,  f.),  imagine  that 
all  the  refined  rules  for  the  permutation  of  letters  which  were  used 
in  later  Sanskrit  composition  were  then  employed  in  daily  discourse, 
though  some  few  of  them  might  have  been ;  for  the  use  of  these  rules 
is  by  no  means  essential  to  the  intelligible  or  grammatical  employment 
of  the  language ;  and  at  the  time  to  which  I  refer,  they  had  not  been 
developed  or  systematized.  Many,  too,  of  the  more  complicated  in- 
flections of  Sanskrit  verbs  would  be  then  little  used  in  conversation ; 
as,  in  fact,  they  are  now  comparatively  little  used  in  most  literary 
compositions.'^* 

156  The  remark  in  this  last  sentence  probably  rests  on  a  misapprehension  of  the 
character  of  the  language  vernacularly  employed  by  men  in  the  earlier  stages  of 
society.  But  I  leave  it  as  it  stood,  in  order  to  make  the  following  remarks  on  it  by 
Professor  Benfey,  in  the  review  above  referred  to,  more  easily  intelligible.  He  writes, 
p.  135  :  "  Here,  nevertheless,  I  should  like  to  see  much  otherwise  understood.  Thus 
it  is  said  in  p.  154 — '  Many,  too,  of  the  more  complicated  inflections  of  Sanskrit  verbs 
would  be  then  [at  the  time  when  the  Sanskrit  existed  as  a  spoken  language]  little 
used  in  conversation  ;'  which,  as  appears  to  me,  leads  to  an  erroneous  understanding. 
It  is  precisely  the  deficiency  of  so  many  forms  in  the  regenerated  Sanskrit,  as,  for 
example,  the  want  of  a  conjunctive  generally,  of  the  moods  for  the  difierent  tenses, 
the  unfrequent  employment  of  the  aorists  as  compared  with  the  Vedic  Sanskrit,  the 
disuse  of  so  many  double  forms,  as  e.g.  the  substitution  of  the  single  form  of  ais  for 
ais  and  eihis,  as  the  ending  of  instrumental  cases  of  nouns  in  a,  the  Limitation  of  the 
strong  case-forms,  which  in  the  Vedas  are  used  very  irregularly,  the  regulation  of 
the  reduplication  and  many  other  differences  of  this  description  between  the  Vedic, 
or  ancient,  and  the  regenerated  Sanskrit, — it  is  just  these  points  which  determine  us 
to  explain  the  latter  (the  modem  Sanskrit)  principally  through  the  predominance  of 
the  vernacular  dialects :  those  persons  who  wrote  the  regenerated  Sanskrit  were  too 
much  accustomed  to  these  vernaculars  to  do  more  in  general  than  to  turn  the  speech 


146  MODIFICATION  OF  SANSKRIT 

It  is  true  that  we  cannot  point  out  the  exact  forms  of  all  the 
Sanskrit  words  in  use  at  the  latest  period  at  which  it  was  so  employed 
as  a  spoken  tongue ;  especially  as  the  language  of  conversation  always 
differs  to  some  extent  from  the  language  of  formal  composition  or  of 
books,  and  the  vernacular  Sanskrit  was  no  doubt  undergoing  a  per- 
petual alteration  tiU  it  merged  into  Prakrit. 

Second  : — The  ease  which  I  have  supposed  here  of  Sanskrit  having 
been  once  a  spoken  language,  and  having  at  length  ceased  to  be  em- 
ployed in  ordinary  discourse,  whUe  the  provincial  dialects  which 
sprang  out  of  it,  and  gradually  diverged  more  and  more  from  it  and 
from  each  other,  have  taken  its  place  as  the  popular  vehicles  of  con- 
versation,— ^is  by  no  means  a  singular  occurrence,  unprecedented  in  the 
history  of  language  ;  on  the  contrary,  the  manner  in  which  the  Italian, 
French,  and  Spanish  languages  (to  which  Burnouf  and  Lassen  refer  in 
a  passage  cited  above,  p.  69)  have  been  formed  out  of  Latin,  presents 
a  very  close  parallel  to  the  mode  in  which  the  various  mediaeval  Indian 
Prakrit  bhashas  (which  in  their  turn  have  given  birth  to  the  modern 
Bengali,  Hindi,  MahrattI,  etc.)  grew  out  of  Sanskrit.  During  the 
existence  of  the  Roman  empire,  Latin,  as  is  quite  well  known,  was 
the  spoken  language  of  Italy,  and  other  western  portions  of  Europe. 
It  is  now  in  nearly  all  those  countries  a  dead  language,  and  is  only 
known  to  the  learned  who  study  the  works  of  the  Latin  philosophers, 
historians,  and  poets ;  just  as  it  is  only  the  Pandits  of  India  and  other 
scholars  who  can  understand  the  Sanskrit  S'astras.  But  while  Latin 
has  itself  ceased  to  be  a  spoken  language  for  eight  hundred  or  a 
thousand  years,  various  vernacular  dialects  have  (as  I  have  said) 
sprung  out  of  it,  such  as  Italian  and  the  other  modern  tongues  already 
specified;  the  Latin  words  which  compose  the  greater  part  of  their 
vocabulary  being  variously  modified,  and  the  ancient  Latin  inflections 
being  either  corrupted,  or  dropped,  and  replaced  by  particles  and 
auxiliary  verbs.     Of  these  derivative  dialects,  the  Italian,  which  is 

with  which  they  were  familiar  into  Sanskrit  according  to  the  reflex  rules  (Eeflex- 
gesetze)  which  were  known  to  them.  It  was  only  a  constantly  deeper  study  of  the 
old  remains  of  the  genuine  vemaoular  Sanskrit  and  the  compositions  which  were  more 
closely  conuected  with  it  that  brought  back  many  of  its  at  first  neglected  peculiari- 
ties into  the  regenerated  Sanskrit,  a  point  which  can  be  proved  by  the  express 
testimony  of  Panini  himself  in  reference  to  the  participles  of  the  reduplicated  perfect. 
(Compare  Pan.  iii.  2.  108;  and  my  complete  Sanskrit  Grammar,  p.  413,  note  13, 
and  shorter  Grammar,  §  361,  369.)" 


PARALLEL  TO  THAT  OF  LA^JN. 


147 


spoken  in  Italy,  has  retained  the  closest  resemblance  to  its  mother- 
language.  Many  of  the  changes  which  Latin  ■words  have  undergone 
in  Italian,  resemble  very  closely  the  modifications  which  Sanskrit 
words  have  undergone  in  Pali  and  Prakrit,  as  has  been  already  re- 
marked in  the  passage  quoted,  in  p.  69,  from  Bumouf  and  Lassen's 
Essay  on  the  Pali. 

To  exhibit  the  wonderful  similarity  (amounting  in  some  cases  to 
identity)  of  the  processes  by  which  these  two  ancient  languages,  the 
Sanskrit  and  the  Latin,  are  modified  in  their  modern  derivatives,  I 
shall  place  in  juxtaposition  a  few  of  the  most  remarkable  instances  of 
it  which  occur  to  me.'" 

I. — Phonetic  Changes. 
"Words  in  wMcll  the  c  or  A  is  dropped  from  a  dompound  letter  et,  net,  or  kt, 


(1) 


■while  the  t  is  douhled. 


Latin  forms, 

as  modified  in  Italian. 

Latin. 

Italian. 

perfectus 

becomes 

perfetto. 

dictus 

J) 

detto. 

junctus  '*8 

J) 

giunto.'^' 

fructus 

jj 

frutto. 

pactum 

»j 

patto. 

tractus 

n 

tratto. 

factus 

11 

fatto. 

actus 

11 

atto. 

octo 

11 

otte. 

doctus 

It 

dotto. 

Words  in  which  the  p 

otpf  is  dro 

ruptus 

becomes 

rotto. 

aptus 

atto. 

inceptus 

incetto. 

septem 

sette. 

oapti^sTis 

cattivo. 

assumptus 

assunto. 

subtus 

sotto. 

(With 

many  others). 

Sanskrit  forms,  modified  in  Pali  and  Prakrit. 
Sanskrit.  Pali  and  Prakrit. 

muktas    becomes 

yuVtas 


bhaktas 
sikthaka  • 
parityaktas 
bhuktas 


mutto 
jutto. 
bhatto. 
sitthao. 


bhutto. 
satto. 


uptas       becomes 

utto. 

suptas            „ 

sutto. 

guptas           „ 

gutto. 

luptas            „ 

lutto. 

triptis            „ 

titti. 

taptas            „ 

tatto. 

saptamas       „ 

sattamo. 

napta             „ 

natta. 

praptas         „ 

patto. 

paryaptas      „ 

pajjatto. 

kshiptas       „ 

khitto. 

Kptas            „ 

Utto. 

diptas           „ 

ditto. 

'"  Since  the  first  edition  of  this  volume  ■was  published,  this  subject  has  been 
handled  in  a  pamphlet  of  68  pages  published  in  1869,  entitled  Vergleichung  des 
Prakrit  mit  den  Eomanischen  Spraohen,  von  Friederich  Haag.  In  a  review  of  this 
book  in  the  Lit.  Centralblatt  for  May  14,  1870,  p.  694,  f.  reference  is  made  to  its 
being  accompanied  by  Tables,  which,  however,  1  do  not  find  in  my  copy. 

168  xhe  Latin  e  is  sounded  k  in  Sanskrit. 

159  gi^^  in  Italian,  is  sounded  asju  in  Sanskrit. 


148 


MODIFICATION  OF  SANSKRIT 


(3).  Vords  in  which  the  I  of  a  compound  letter,  pi  or  U,  is  dropped.™ 


Latin  forms,  as  modified  in  Italian. 
Latin.  Italian. 


planctus 
planus 


becomes 


pianto. 
piano. 


Sanskrit  forms,  modified  in  Pali  and  Pralsrit. 
Sanskrit.  Pali  and  Prakrit. 

Tiklavas    becomes    Tikkavo. 


(4).  "Words  in  -which  the  i  of  the  compound  letter  iS/is  dropped. 

subjectus      becomes     soggetto.  kubjas    becomes    khujjo.«i 

objectus  „  oggetto."*  abjas  „        ajjo. 


(5).  "Words  in  which  the  letters  rejected,  or  changed,  are  not  the  same  in  the  Italian  and 
Prakrit,  but  in  which  both  languages  show  the  same  tendency  to  simplification. 


absorptus 

becomes 

assorto. 

utpalam  becomes 

uppalam. 

absurdus 

» 

aseurdo. 

skandhas 

)7 

khandho. 

extemus 

)> 

estemo. 

dharmas 

>t 

dhammo. 

miitus 

)» 

misto. 

dushkaras 

>J 

dukkaro. 

sextus 

»j 

sesto. 

kshama 

» 

khama. 

textus 

)» 

testo. 

mugdhas 

>» 

muddho. 

saxum 

» 

sasso. 

mudgas 

JJ 

muggo. 

somnus 

ji 

sonno. 

labdhas 

it 

laddho. 

damnum 

» 

danno. 

s'abdas 

Jl 

saddo. 

autumnus 

» 

autunno. 

nimnas 

t1 

nimmo.^^^ 

domina 

»» 

donna. 

amnayas 

)> 

ammayo. 

pradyumnas  „ 

pajjummo. 

janman 

JJ 

jammo. 

raina 

)) 

raffua. 

A  large  portion  of  the  simplifications  in  Pali  and  Prakrit  arise  from 
the  rejection  of  r  before  or  after  another  consonant,  as  in  the  words 
kanm  for  karna,  savva  for  sarvva,  mitta  for  mitra,  putta  for  putra,  etc. 
This  elision  of  r  is  not  usual  in  Italian. 

II. — I  give  an  instance  or  two  to  show  the  manner  in  which  the 
Latin  case-terminations  have  been  dropped  in  Italian.  In  Latin  the 
word  annus,  a  year,  is  thus  declined. 

singular. 

Nom.    -    .    -    .  annus. 

Gen.  ...  anni. 

Dat.  and  Abl. .  anno. 

Aeons.  ....  annum. 

In  Italian,  on  the  contrary,  there  is  only  one  form  in  the  singular, 

w  In  Prakrit,  however,  a  compound  letter,  of  which  I  is  the  final  portion,  is 
generally  dissolved  into  two  syllables,  as  glana  becomes  gilana. 

161  Tar.  II.  34.  ''*  Pronounced  as  if  written  in  English,  sojjetto,  ojjetto. 

'63  I  can  only  infer,  from  the  rule  in  Vararuohi,  III.  2,  that  the  n  is  thrown  out 
and  the  m,  doubled  in  this  and  the  two  following  words,  as  I  have  not  met  them 
anywhere. 


Plural. 
Nom.     -    -  anni. 

Gen.       ....     annorum. 
Dat.  and  Abl.  -    -    annis. 
Accus.    ... 


PARALLEL  TO  THAT  OF  LATIN. 


149 


anno ;  and  one  in  the  plural,  anni ;  the  case-terminations  being  sup- 
plied by  prepositions  with  or  without  the  article,  as  follows  : 


Singular. 
Nom.  and  Accus.    -    1'  anno. 
Gen.        -    -         -    deir  anno. 
Dat.   ...    -    -    all'  anno. 
Abl.   -----    dall'  anno. 


Plural. 

Nom.  and  Accus.   -  gU  anni. 

Gen.      ....  degli  anni. 

Dat.      ....  agli  anni. 

Abl.       ....  dagli  anni. 


III. — In  Italian  yerbs,  the  Latin  forms  of  the  active  voice  are  pre- 
served in  a  modified  shape,  as  the  following  example  wiU  show : — 


1. 

2. 
3. 

Press 
La«n. 
yendo. 
yendis. 
yendit. 

!nt  Tense. 

Italian, 
yendo. 
yendi. 
yeude. 

1. 
2. 
3. 

Imperfect  Tense. 

Latin.                        Italian. 

yendebam.              yendeya. 

yendebas.                yendevi. 

yendebat.                yendeya. 

4. 
5. 
6. 

yendimus. 

yenditis. 

yendoHt. 

yendiamo, 

yendete. 

yendono. 

4. 
5. 
6. 

yendebamus. 

yendebatis. 

yendebant. 

yendeyamo. 

yendevate. 

yendeyano. 

Perfect  Tense. 

1.  yendidi.  yendei. 

2.  yendidiati.  vendesti. 

3.  yendidit.  yendl. 


Pluperfect  Tense. 

1.  yendidissem.  yeudessi. 

2.  yendidisses.  yendessi. 

3.  yendidisset.  yendesse. 


4.  yendidimus. 

5.  yendiditis. 

6.  yendiderunt. 


vendemmo. 

yendeste. 

yenderono. 


4.  yendidissemus. 

5.  vendidissetis. 

6.  yendidissent. 


yendessimo. 

yendeste. 

vendessero. 


But  (IV.)  in  the  passive  voice  the  Italian  language  has  entirely  lost 
the  Latin  forms  of  conjugation.  Thus  instead  of  the  Latin  forms 
ego  laudor,  "I  am  praised;"  ego  laudatar,  "I  was  praised;"  ego 
laudarer,  "1  should  be  praised,"  etc.,  the  Italians  employ  in  aU  tenses 
(as  the  Latin  had  already  done  in  a  few),  the  substantive  verb  with 
the  past  participle,  and  say  lo  sono  hdato,  lo  era  lodato,  lo  sa/rei  lodato, 
"I  am,"  "I  was,"  "I  should  be,  praised." 

These  few  instances  will  suffice  to  show  the  Indian  reader  how  the 
Latin  words  and  inflections  are  modified  in  Italian. 

It  is  thus  manifest  from  the  history  of  Italy  in  ancient  and  modem 
times  that  the  people  of  that  country  once  spoke  Latin,  and  now  speak 
Italian,  a  vernacular  dialect  derived  from  Latin,  and  difiiering  from  it 
in  many  respects,  as  the  Indian  Prakrits  do  from  Sanskrit,  while  Latin 
equally  with  Sanskrit  is  in  most  of  the  countries  where  it  was  formerly 
current  a  dead  language,  known  only  from  ancient  books,  or  from  its 


150  PEOOFS  THAT  SANSKRIT 

use  in  the  public  worship  of  the  Eoman  Catholic  Church,  or  from  its 
occasional  employment  by  modem  scholars  in  their  writings,  or  in 
scholastic  discussions,  in  Italy  and  other  countries.  But  if  it  be  true 
that  a  language  like  Latin,  with  its  numerous  and  varied  inflections, 
was  once  the  common  speech  of  the  whole  Roman  people,  there  can 
be  no  difficulty  in  supposing  that  while  the  modern  Hindus  (excepting 
a  few  Pandits)  can  only  speak  Bengali,  Hindi,  Mahratti,  etc.,  and 
while  their  ancestors  spoke  diflferent  Prakrit  dialects,  which  are  the 
immediate  parents  of  the  modem  vernaculars,  the  Hindus  of  a  still 
earlier  period  should  have  spoken  Sanskrit,  i.e.  the  old  Arian  lan- 
guage, itself,  from  which  there  is  no  doubt  that  the  older  forms  of 
Prakrit  were  immediately  derived.  If  even  in  our  own  day  Pandits 
can  talk  Sanskrit,  why  should  not  the  vernacular  use  of  it,  in  a  simple 
and  natural  style,  have,  in  former  ages,  been  common,  not  only  among 
Brahmans,  but  also  among  other  persons  in  all  the  different  classes  of 
society  ?  The  complex  structure  of  a  language,  i.e.  the  multitude  of 
its  forms  of  inflection  and  conjugation,  which,  to  those  who  are  ac- 
customed to  a  simpler  form  of  speech,  may  appear  to  afford  grounds 
for  doubting  that  a  language  of  the  former  description  could  ever  have 
been  vernacularly  spoken,  is,  in  fact,  rather  an  argument  in  favour  of 
that  supposition ;  for  such  complexity  of  structure  appears  to  be  a 
characteristic  of  language  as  it  exists  in  the  earlier  stages  of  society, 
whUst  the  dialects  formed  out  of  these  earlier  tongues,  on  their  decay, 
are  observed  to  become  simpler  in  their  forms.  This  is  exemplified  in 
the  case  of  the  Latin  and  its  derivatives. 

Third : — The  fact  that  the  dramatic  authors  put  Sanskrit  into  the 
mouth  of  Brahmans  and  other  persons  of  the  higher  ranks,  affords  an 
argument  of  considerable  force  that  Sanskrit  was  once  spoken  by  the 
whole  community,  and  by  the  upper  classes  down  to  a  much  later  period 
(see  above,  p.  140)  :  and  even  the  common  employment  of  the  same  lan- 
guage by  learned  Indians  in  their  schools  and  disputations  down  to  the 
present  day,  may  go  some  way  to  prove  its  more  general  currency  as  a 
vernacular  at  an  earlier  date.  For  if  Brahmans  did  not  at  one  time 
employ  it  in  their  ordinary  discourse,  how  did  they  ever  get  into  the 
habit  of  speaking  it  with  so  much  ease  and  fluency  ?  But  if  Sanskrit 
was  at  one  time  ordinarily  spoken  by  Brahmans,  the  use  of  it  would 
easily  be  propagated  from  one  generation  of  learned  men  to  another. 


WAS  OEIGINALLT  A  VBRNACULAE.  151 

Fourtli: — Manu  mentions  a  difference  of  speech  in  ancient  India 
among  the  Dasyus,  or  non-Arian  tribes,  some  classes  of  them  speaking 
the  language  of  the  Aiyas,  and  others  the  language  of  the  Mleohhas."* 
The  language  of  the  Aryas  to  which  he  alludes  must  have  been  derived 
from  Sanskrit,  or  old-Sanskrit  itself:  whether  it  was  the  one  or  the 
other  must  depend  on  the  age  in  which  we  suppose  this  particular  text 
of  Manu's  Institutes  to  have  been  composed.  This  passage,  at  any 
rate,  leaves  the  impression  that  there  was  a  broad  distinction  between 
the  Arian  language  and  the  indigenous  dialects  with  which  it  was 
contrasted;  and  that  the  varieties,  if  any,  recognized  as  existing  in 
the  former,  were  regarded  as  comparatively  insignificant. 

Fifth : — In  some  of  the  oldest  Indian  grammarians,  such  as  Yaska 
and  Panini,  we  find  the  obsolete  language  of  the  Vedas  distinguished 
from  the  ordinary  Sanskrit  of  the  day.  The  former  is  alluded  to  or  de- 
signated by  the  terms  atmadhyayam,  (in  the  Veda),  chhandas  (metre),  or 
arsha  (the  speech  of  the  rishis),  etc. ;  while  the  contemporary  Sanskrit 
is  referred  to  as  bhashd  (the  spoken  language).  Thus  Taska,  the 
ancient  author  of  the  Mrukta,  in  the  introductory  part  of  his  work,  I.  4, 
speaking  of  particles  {nipatah),  says :  tesham  ete  chatvdrah  wpamarfhe 
Ihavanti  iti  \  " iva"  iti  bhashdyam  eha  aiwadhyayam  cha  " Agnir  wa" 
"Jndrah  iva''  iti  \  "na"  iti  \  pratishedhdrthlyo  hhdshdydm  uhhayam 
anvadhydyam  \  "na  Indram  devam  amamsata"  iti  pratishedhdrtMyab 
iiyddi  \  "Of  them  these  four  are  particles  of  comparison.  ' Iva ' 
has  this  sense  both  in  the  common  language  {bhashd)  and  in  the  Veda 
{mwadhydyam)  :  thus  Agnir  iva,  Indra  iva,  '  like  Agni,'  '  like  Indra.' 
'  Na '  has  in  the  bhdsha  a  negative  sense.  In  the  Veda,  it  has  the 
sense  both  of  a  negative  and  also  of  a  comparative  particle.  Thus 
in  the  text  na  Indram  devam  amamsata,  'they  did  not  regard  Indra 
as  a  god,'  it  has  a  negative  sense,"  etc.  Again,  in  the  next  section 
(I.  5),  he  says  similarly:  "nunam"  iti  viehikitsdrthiyo  bhdshdydm  \ 
ubhayam  a/madhydydm  vichikitsdrtMyah  padapuranas  cha  \  "  The 
particle  'nunam,'  is  used  in  the  bhashd  to  signify  uncertainty;   in 

^^*  Manu,  X.  45.  The  Terse  is  quoted  and  translated  in  Vol.  I.  of  this  work,  p.  482 ; 
but  I  repeat  it  here  for  facility  of  reference.  Mukha-bahuru-paj-janam  yah  loJcejatayo 
vahih  I  mleohehhmiaohas  charyorvachah  sarm  te  Dasyavah  smritah  \  "  Those  tribes 
which  are  outside  of  the  classes  produced  from  the  mouth,  arms,  thighs,  and  feet  [of 
Brahma,  i.e.  Brahmanas,  Kshatriyas,  Vais'yas,  and  S'udras],  whether  they  speak  the 
language  of  the  Mlechhas  or  of  the  Aryas,  are  called  Dasyus." 


152  SANSKEIT  ANCIENTLT  CALLED  BHASHA. 

the  Veda,  too,  it  has  that  signification,  and  is  also  a  mere  expletive." 
Again,  Tasta  says,  Nir.  II.  2  :  athapi  hhashihehhyo  dhdtubhyo  naigamah 
hrito  hhashyante  " damunah"  " hhetrasddhdh"  iti\  athapi naigamebhyo 
hhas}dkah  "ushmm"  "ffkritam"  iti  \  athapi  prakritayah  eva  ehshu 
hhashyante  vikritayah  elceshu  \  " iamatir"  gati-karmd  kamhojeshv  eva 
hhdshyate  \  vikdram  asya  dryeahu  Ihashante  "iavah"  iti  \  "ddtir" 
lavandrthe  prdehyeshu  ddtram  udiohyeshu  |  "Again,  there  are  Vedic 
{naigama)  nouns  (as  damunah  and  kshetrasddhah)  which  are  derived 
from  roots  found  in  the  hhdshd;  and  also  formations  in  the  Ihdshd, 
such  as  ushnam,  ghritam,  which  come  from  Vedic  roots.  Further,  the 
roots  only  are  employed  in  the  speech  of  some ;  the  derived  forms  [or 
nouns]  in  that  of  others.  S'avati,  as  a  verb  for  '  going,'  is  used  in  the 
language  of  the  Kambojas  only:  its  derivative,  sava  ('a  corpse'),  is 
in  use  in  the  language  of  the  Aryas.  The  verb  ddti  is  employed  in 
the  sense  of  'cutting'  by  the  people  of  the  East:  whUe  the  noun 
ddtram  ('a  sickle')  only  is  known  to  those  of  the  North."  Here  it 
will  be  observed  that  pure  Sanskrit  words  are  referred  to  as  being  used 
in  the  speech  not  only  of  the  Aryas,  but  also  of  the  Kambojas,  a 
people  living  to  the  north-west,  who  are  distinguished  from  the  Aryas. 
In  the  Sutras  of  Panini  the  Vedic  dialect  is  referred  to  as  follows : 
1,  2,  36,  vihhdshd  chhandasi  \  "in  the  chhandas  (Veda)  there  is  an 
option:"  1,  4,  20,  ayasmayddlni  chhandasi  \  "In  the  chhandas  we 
have  the  forms  ayasmaya  [instead  of  aydmaya],"  etc.;  and  so  in 
numerous  other  aphorisms.  The  word  mantra  is  put  for  Veda  in  the 
following  Sutras,  2,  4,  80;  6,  1,  151;  6,  1,  210;  6,  3,  131;  6,  4,  53; 

6,  4,  141.     The  word  nigama  is  similarly  used  in  6,  3,  113;  6,  4,  9 ; 

7,  2,  64;  7,  4,  74: — and  the  expressions  rishau  ('in  a  rishi'),  and 
richi  ('in  a  Vedic  verse'),  are  employed  in  the  same  way,  4,  4,  96; 
6,  3,  130;  and  6,  3,  133.  In  contradistinction  to  the  Vedic  dialect, 
on  the  other  hand,  the  current  Sanskrit  is  designated  by  Panini  as 
Ihdshd  in  the  following  Sutras,  3,  2,  108 :  Ihdshdydm  sada/oasairuvah  \ 
"in  the  current  language  the  roots  sad,  vas,  and  §ru,  take  kvasu;" 
6,  3,  20  :  sthe  chd  hhdshdydm  |  "  and  in  the  case  of  stha  in  the  current 
language."  The  same  use  of  the  word  wiU  be  found  in  Sutras,  6,  1, 
181;  7,  2,  88;  8,2,  98."'' 

•6'  Compare  Weber's  Indische  Literaturgeschichte,  pp.  56,  139,  and  167,  witli 
note  2,  and  Ind.  Studien,  iv.  76.  Dr.  F.  Hall  wiitee,  pref.  to  his  edition  of  the  Vasava- 


AGE  OF  TASKA  AND  PACINI.  153 

Soholeffs  are  not  agreed  as  to  &e  periods  when  Taska  and  Panini 
respectively  Iwed,  or  even  as  to  which  of  the  two  was  the  more  ancient. 
Professor  Miiller  considers  Taska  to  have  lived  in  liie  fifth  century  b,c. 
("Chips,"  1st  ed.,  p.  74,  published  in  1867),'*"— and,  as apasaage in  Ms 
History  of  Ancient  Sanskrit  Literature,  pp.  163,  f.  (published  in  1869), 
is  undesrstood  by  Professor  Groldstiicker  (Panini,  p.  221,  published  in 
J  8  61),— places  him  after  Panini.  Professor  Lassen,  in  his  Indian 
Antiquities  (vol.  i.,  ifirst  edition,  p.  739,  and  pp.  864  and  866  erf 
the  second  edition;  and  vol.  ii.,  p.  476),  thinks  that  as  Taska  shows 
himself  unacquainted  with  the  highly  artificial  terminology  of  Panini, 
and  Tvas  named  by  him,  he  must  be  older,  and  that  the  difference  of 
their  grammatical  methods  is  so  great  that  an  interval  of  fifty  years 
wUl  scarcely  suffice  to  explain  it.  Professor  Croldstiickea:  (Panini, 
p.  221)  agrees  with  Lassen  that  Panini  is  more  recent  than  Taska,  but 
regards  the  former  as  having,  in  all  probability,  lived  before  Buddha 
(Panini,  p.  227),  whose  death  he  seems  to  concur  with  Lassen  in 
placing  in  543  b.c.    Lassen,  however,  does  not  agree  with  Groldstiicker 

datta,  p.  24,  note :  " The  word  bhSshS,  signifies  'classical  Sanskrit,'  as  contrasted 
either  with  the  archaism  of  the  Teda,  or  with  the  various  Prakrits."  The  following 
account  of  this  ihasha^^  Professor  Weber  is  in  consonance  with  the  views  which 
have  already  been  quoted  from  him  (above  p.  129,  S.).  "  After  the  immigration  into 
India  of  the  several  Indo-aryan  tribes,  a  greater  unity  had  in  course  of  time  been 
restored  in  their  different  dialects  by  their  association  and  iatermixture  in  their 
new  abodes  and  their  aggregation  iato  larger  communities,  while  on  the  other 
hand,  the  grammatical  itudy  which  was  gradually  becoming  necessary  for  the 
explanation  of  the  ancient  texts,  and  was  growing  up  in  connexion  therewith,  had 
the  effect  of  fixing  the  linguistic  usage  {usus  logtiendi),  so  that  a  generally  recog- 
nized language  knowA  as  the  bhasha  ha4  arisen,  in  which  the  Brahmauas  and 
Sutras  are  composed." — ^Ind.  Lit.  p.  167. 

On  the-Subject  of  this  same  term  I  quote  some  remarks  of  Professor  Roth  from 
his  review-of  Weber's  History  of  Ind.  Lit.  in  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental 
Society  for  1863,  p.  606  :-^"  OontradistinguiBhed  from  these  Prakrit  dialects,  stands 
the  proper  and  therefore  originally  nameless  speech,  bhasha,  the  later  name  of  which, 
ScmsJtrita,  we  must  regard  as  one  formed  with  reference  to  the  Prakrita,  and  answer- 
ing to  it.  Too  much  meaning  therefore  appears  to  be  introduced  into  the  word, 
when  it  is  explained  as  the  cultivated  language,  as  Weber  also  does.  The  use  of 
the  word  elsewhere  does  not  justify  the  explanation,  which  at  the  same  time  aims  at 
an  incorrect  contrast.  I  believe  that  we  shall  come  nearer  to  the  truth  if  we  merely 
assign  to  this  somewhat  arbitrarily  chosen  collection  of  roots  which  are  also  con- 
tained in  Prakrit  the  value  (signification  ?)  of  the  already  existing  speech,  to  which 
another  form  of  speech  is  referred." 

'«8  In  the  same  -Essay,  printed  under  the  title  of  the  "  Last  Results  of  the  Sanskrit 
Eesearche?,"  in  Bunsen's  Outline  of  the  Phil,  of  Un.  Hist.  i.  137  (publisbed  in 
1864),  Prof.  MtiUer  had  placed  Yaska  in  the  fourth  century  b.c. 

VOL.   II.  •  11 


154  TEXTS  EROM  THE  MAHABHASHYA  AND  THE 

in  regarding  Panini  as  anterior  to  Buddha  (Ind.  Ant>,  Tol.  i.,  second 
edition,  p.  864),  Professor  "Weber  also  (Ind.  Stud.  v.  136,  ff.)  rejects 
the  opinion  that  Panini  was  prior  to  Buddha.'"  If  we  accept  the  view 
of  Bohtlingk  and  Lassen  that  Panini  flourished  about  330  years  b.c, 
(Lassen,  vol.  i.,  second  edition,  p.  864),  and  that  Taska  was  more  than 
fifty  years  earlier,  the  latter  may  be  placed  about  400  b.o.  If,  farther, 
we  adopt  the  opinion  expressed  by  Prof.  Benfey  (see  last  section,  pp.  1 38, 
143)  that  Sanskrit  had  ceased  to  be  vernacular  in  the  time  of  Buddha, 
i.e.  in  the  sixth  century  b.c,  the  colloquial  use  of  that  language  must 
have  died  out  some  centuries  before  the  age  of  Taska;  and  a  some- 
what longer  period  before  the  time  of  Panini.  In  this  case,  these 
authors  could  not  employ  the  word  Ihasha,  when  referred  to  Sanskrit, 
in  the  sense  of  a  universally  spoken  contemporaneous  language;  for 
the  language  then  actually  in  general  use  must  have  been  a  species  of 
Pali  or  some  of  the  earlier  forms  of  Prakrit.  But  still  the  spoken 
language  of  that  day  had  not  departed  so  far  from  the  Sanskrit  but 
that  its  close  relation  to  the  latter  as  its  parent,  or  rather  as  its 
standard,  would  be  evident  to  every  scholar ;  and  thus  Sanskrit  would 
still  be  called  the  Ihasha,  or  language  par  exoellence.  We  have  conse- 
quently, in  the  continued  use  of  this  word,  an  argument  of  considerable 
force  to  show  that  the  Sanskrit  had  at  one  time  been  a  spoken  tongue. 

Again,  in  the  Mahabhashya  (pp.  22  and  63  of  Dr.  Ballantyne's 
edition)  we  find  the  foUowing  passage  : — 

Bhuydmso  ^paiaMah  alpiyd'msah  iabdah  \  ekaikasya  hi  idbdasya 
lahavo  'pahhramiah  \  tad  yatha  "ga/wr'''  ity  mya  iabdasya  "gavi" 
*'gonl"  "gofd"  "gopotalikd"  ity-evam-adayo  bahiwo 'pahhramsah  \ 

"  Incorrect  words  are  the  most  numerous,  and  [correct]  words  are 
the  fewest;  for  of  each  word  there  are  many  corruptions  {apahhraihsah). 
Thus  there  are  numerous  corruptions  of  the  word  goh  (cow) ;  such  as  the 
following,  viz.,  gavi,  gom,  gota,  gopotalikd,  etc."  This  reference  to  in- 
correct forms,  such  as  those  of  the  word  go,  which  seem  to  be  Prakrit,'™ 
indicates  that  Sanskrit,  even  if  not  still  spoken  by  a  considerable  class 
of  persons,  was  at  least  regarded  as  the  standard  of  all  spoken  lan- 
guage;  and  that  all  deviations  from  it  were  looked  upon  as  mere 

16'  Compare  the  same  writer's  remarks  on  this  question  in  his  review  of  Mr. 
D'Alwis's  Kachchayana  in  the  Journal  of  the  Germ.  Or.  Society,  xix.  653. 
16B  In  the  Mrichhakati,  pp.  98,  99,  the  word  gom  occurs  in  the  sense  of  oxen. 


NIKUKTA  PARIS'ISHTA  ON  THE  LANGUAGE  OF  INDIA.      155 

vulgarisms :  for  there  ■would  have  been-  no  ground  for  such'  a  mode  of 
comparison  between  words  which  were  regarded  as  belonging  to  differ- 
ent languages;  nor  would  the  Prakrit  synonyms  of  go  have  been 
wrong  because  of  their  variety  of  form. 

Sixth: — In  the  164th  hymn  of  the  1st  book  of  the  Eigveda,  the 
following  verse  (the  45th)  occurs :  Chaivdri  vak  parimitd  padani  tdni 
viAwr  hrdhmandh  ye  mamshimh  |  guhd  trini  nihitd  nengayanti  turlyatm 
vdcho  mcmushydh  vadanti  \  "  There  are  four  measured  grades  of  lan- 
guage :  with  these  intelligent  Brahmans  are  acquainted.  Three 
hidden  in  secret  indicate  nothing.  The  fourth  grade  of  speech  is 
uttered  by  men."  I  quote  part  of  the  comment  on  this  verse,  which 
is  given  in  the  PariMshta,  or  Supplement  to  the  Nirukta,  i.  9  : — 

Katamani  tdni  chatvdri padani \  " omkdro  vydJtritayaieha"  ity  drsham  \ 
"^ndmakhydte  cha  wpasarga-nipdtak  cha"  iti  vaiyaka/ranah  j  " mantrah 
Jcalpo  Irahmamm  ohaturthi  vydvakdriM"  iti  ydjniMh  |  "richo  yaj- 
itmshi  sdmdni  chatwrtM  vydvahdriM "  iti  nairuhtdh  \  "  sarpdndm  vdg 
vayaadm  Icshud/raaya  sarisripasya  chaturthl  vydvahdriM"  ity  eke  |  "pa- 
Stishu  tunaveshu  mrigeslm  dtmani  cha  "  ity  dtmapravdddk  \  athdpi  brdh- 
manam  Ihavati  "•««  vai  vak  srishtd  chaturdhd  vyahhamad  \  eshv  eva 
hkeshu  trlni  paiushu  ttwiyam  \  yd  prithivydm  sS  Agnau  sd  rathantws  \ 
yd  antarikshe  sd  Vdyau  sd  vdmadevye  [yd  divi  sd  dditye  sd  hrihati  sd 
stanayitnav  atha  pasmhu  [  tato  yd  vdg  atyariohyata  tdm  hrdhmaneshv 
adadhuh  |  tasmdd  hrdhmandh  uhhaylm  vadanti  yd  cha  devdndm  yd  cha 
mamtahydndm  "  iti  | 

"What  are  these  four  grades?  The  explanation  of  the  rishis  is, 
that  'they  are  the  four  mystic  words,  om,  hhuh,  Ihuvah^  and  svar.^ 
The  grammarians'"  say  'they  are  the  four  kinds  of  words,  nouns, 
verbs,  prepositions,  and  particles.'  The  ceremonialists  declare  them 
to  be  '(Ist)  the  mantras;  (2nd.)  the  kalpas  (liturgical  precepts).;  (3rd) 
the  brahmanas ;  and  (4th)  the  current  language.' ""  The  commentators 
(nairuktah)  explain  them  as  being  '(1st)  the  rich;  (2nd)  the  yajush; 
(3rd)  the  saman  texts ;  and  (4th)  the  current  language.'  Others  think 
they  denote  the  speech   '(1st)  of  serpents;    (2nd)  of  birds;  (3rd)  of 

™  See  the  Mahabhashya,  pp.  28,  29. 

"0  See  Sayana's  commentary  on  E.V.  i.  164,  45.  He  there  defines  thus  the 
words  vyavaharihi  vajc :  Bhoga-vishaya  '■'■gam  anai/a"  ityadi-rupa  vymaliarii:T[ 
"  The  common  language  is  that  which  refers  to  objects  of  enjoyment,  such  as  gam 
anaya, '  bring  the  cow.'  "     These  words  are  of  course  Sanskrit, 


156         REMARKS  ON  THE  TEXT  FEGM  THE  PAEIS'ISHTA. 

small  reptiles ;  and  (4tli)  the  cutrent  language.'  The  philosopMeal 
school  explains  the  four  grades  as  having  reference  to  '  cattle,  musical 
instruments,  wild  animals,  and  soul.'  On  this  point  we  have  also  the 
following  text  in  a  Brahmana:  *  Speech,  when  created,  became  divided 
into  four  parts,  of  which  three  abide  in  these  three  worlds  (earth,  the 
■  atmosphere,  and  the  sky),  and  the  fourth  among  the  beasts.  Tei^esMal 
speech  abides  in  fire  aind  in  the  Rathantara  texts ;  atmospheric  speech 
abides  in  the  wind,  and  in  the  Vamadetya  prayers ;  celestial  speech 
abides  in  the  sun,  in  the  Brihat  metre,  and  in  thun-der.  The  [fourth 
■portion  of  speech  was]  in  the  beasts.  The  speech  which  was  most 
excellent"'  was  placed  in  the  Brabmans.:  hence  the  Brahmans  s^eak 
two  sorts  of  language ;  both  that  of  gods  and  that  of  ihen.' " 

The  Parisishta  appended  to  the  Ifirukta  is  more  modem  than 
the  time  of  Taska,  though  it  is  regarded  as  a  part  of  his  work  by 
Durga,  the  commentator,  who  refers  to  the  Nirukta  as  consisting  Of 
14  parts.  (See  his  comment  on  ¥ir.  L,  20,  which  is  quoted  below, 
pp.  166,  ff.)  But  though  itself  subsequent  in  date  to  the  iK'irukia, 
the  preceding  passage  refers  to  the  opinions  of  various  ancient  writer^, 
and  may,  therefore,  be  held  to  carry  us  back  to  a  remoter  ^MJiod. 
Three  of  the  ancient  schools  which  are  quoted  assert  the  current 
language  {vyavaMriM  vale)  to  be  the  fourth  kind  of  speech  alluded 
to  in  the  Vedie  text  as  being  spoken  by  men.  By  this  we  are  perhaps 
to  understand  old  Sanskrit.  It  is  true  that  in  the  Brahman^  which 
the  author  of  the  Parisishta  cites  a  remark  is  made  (connected  with 
what  precedes)  that  the  Brahmans  speak  two  languages,  that  of  the 
gods  and  that  of  men ;  and  this  might  seem  to  prove  that,  as  in  later 
times  (see  above,  p.  47),  a  distinction  was  drawn,  at  the  time  when 
the  Brahma'na  was  composed,  between  Sanskrit,  the  language  of  the 
gods,  and  Prakrit,  the  language  of  men.  But  the  reference  may  be  to 
the  Vedio  and  the  ordinary  Sanskrit ;  or  to  cultivated  and  rustic  speech, 
or  perhaps  to  some  piece  of  mysticism."^  And,  in  any  case,  as  we 
are  ignorant  of  the  date  of  the  Brahmana  from  which  the  citation  is 

"1  Benfey,  Gott.  Gel.  Anz.  for  1861,  p.  134,  would  render  "was  the  first." 
^"  In  the  Gopatha  Brahmana,  i.  1,  1,  and  in  the  S'atap.  Br.  xiv.  6,  11,  2,  it  is 
■said,  paroksha-priydh  iva  hi  devah  pratyaksha-dvishah,  "  for  the  gods  love,  as  it 
were,  what  is  mysterious,  and  hate  what  is  manifest."  The  first  part  of  this  formuls 
is  of  frequent  occurrence  in  the  Brahmanas.  The  commentator  on  the  Taitt.  Br.  (. 
6,  9,  2,  where  it  occurs,  remarks,  "  Hence  also  in  common  life  teachers  avoid  such 
names  as  Devadatta,  and  like  to  be  honoured  by  such  appellations  as  'upadhyaya,' 


QUOTATIONS  FEOM  THE  ESMAYANA..  V57 

made,  no  conclusion  can  be  drawn  from  the  passage  adTerse  to  the 
Ternacular  use  of  Sanskrit  in^  the  Vedic  age. 

Sejrenth: — In  the  Kamayana  several  passages  occur  in  which  the 
colloquial  use  of  Sanskrit  is  mentioned.     These  are  the  following '" : — 

Hanuman,  the  monkey  general,  is  represented  as  having  found  his 
way  into  the  palace  of  Eavana,  the  Eakshasa  king,  and  as  reflecting 
how  he  is  to  address  Sita,  who  is  there  confined.  He  says  (Sundara 
Eianda,  xxx.  17,  Bombay  edition)  :  ahmh  hy  atitanus  ehaiva  vanaras  cha 
viseihatah  \  vacham chodaTimris:hy.ami  manwsMm  iha samskritam^''*  I  18  | 
yacH  vdeham  pradasyarni  dvijatir  wa  samsJcritdm  \  Rdvamm  manyamand 
mam  SUd  hhitd  bhaviskyati  \  19  \masyam  eva  vaktcmyam  mdmcsham 
vakyam  arthwvat  |,  mayd  sdnixwyit'wm  idkyd  ndnyatheyam  aninditd  \ 
"For  I  am  very  smaJl,  and  above  all  a  monkey;  I  shaU  now  utter 
polished  {samskritam)  human  speech.  If  I  utter  polished  speech  like 
a  Brahman,  Sita  will  think  I  am  Kavana,  and  wiU  be  frightened.  I 
must  certainly  speak  human  and  significant  language ;  for  thus  only 
can  I  comfort  the  blameless  lady." 

The  reading  in  Qorresio's  edition  of  the  Sundara  Eanda,  xxix,  16,  is 
somewhat  different  from-  the  above,  and  is  as  follows  :  anendsvdsayish- 
ydmi  iokendpahitendriydm  [  aham  hy  woiditai  ehaiva  vdnara^  cha  vUesha- 
taJf  |i  17  [  yadi  vdeham  vadishydmi  dvijdtir  iva  samskritam  |  seyam 
dlakehya  rupam  eha  Jdnakl  hhdsMtam  cha  me  \  Rdvanam  manyamdnd 
mdm  punas  trdsam  gamishyati  [  tato  jdta-paritrdsd  sdbdam  hurydd. 

'Misra,'  and  so  forth,"  {atah  eva  lolee  'pi  Dmadattadi-nama  parity ajya  acharyah 
vpadhyayah  miirah  ityadi-namahMli  pujyali  paritushyanti) .  It  is  well  known  that, 
according  to  Indian  custom,  Pandits  are  not  named  by  their  pupils,  but  are  referred 
to  as  my  Guru,  etc. 

In  the  Iliad,  ii.,  813, f.,  mention  is  made  of  an  eminence  called  by  men  Eatieia, 
and  by  the  gods  the  tomb  of  Myrine ;  on  which  Faesi  remarks  in  his  not^ 
that  the  former  was  the  common,  the  latter  the  older,  but  more  distinctive  an4 
significant  name.  (Comp.  Iliad  i.  40S;xiT.  291  ;  xx.  74.)  On  Iliad  ii.  813,  Prof. 
Blackie  remarks.  (Homcsr;  vol.  iv.  114),  "  With-  regard  to  the  double  name— the 
human  and  the  divine — by  which  this  place  was  known,  I  have  little  doubt  that 
Lobeck  (Aglao.  p-.  868),  Nitzsch  (Od.  x.  306),  and  Gottling  (Hes.  intro.  xxx.)  are 
right  in  saying  that  by  the  language  of  men  in  such  cases  is  understood  the  popular, 
or  vulgar  name ;  by  the  language  of  the  gods,  the  sacerdotal,  oracular,  or  poetical 


"'  For  the  references  to  most  of  the  texts  here  quoted  I  am  indebted  to  Weher, 
JJeitschr.  der  Deutschen  Morgenl.  Gesellsohaft,  for  1854,  p.  851,  note. 

"*  These  words  are  thus  explained  by  the  commentator  r  rmnmhlm  manmhyar 
a'artra-sSdhyam  \  "scmshritcm"  vyakarana-samskaravatm  \ 


158 

^  TEXTS  FIIOM  THE  EAMATAlirA 

manasmni  \  "I  shall  console  her,  whose  senses  are  overwhelmed 
with  this  grief.  But  I  am  both  unknown,  and  above  all  a  monkey. 
If  I  were  to  speak  in  polished  language,  like  a  twice-born  man, 
JanakI  (Sita),  perceiving  my  appearance,  and  [hearing]  my  words, 
W6uld  think  that  I  was  Eavana,  and  would  again  become  terrified; 
and  would  scream  in  consequence  of  her  fright."  Considering  that 
this  would  lead  to  a  discovery,  he  concludes  as  follows  (verses  33  and 
34  of  the  same  section) :  Bamam  aJcUshtaharmanarh  nimUtair  anuMrta- 
yan  |  tasmad  vahshyamy  aham  vakyam  manmhyah  iva  samskritam  \ 
nainam  udmeja/yishyami  tad-luddhi-gata-manasam  \  "Announcing  by' 
signs  the  undaunted  Eama,  I  shall  address  to  her  such  polished  lan- 
guage as  a  man  would.  [Thus]  I  shall  not  occasion  her  any  alarm, 
as  her  mind  wiU  be  fixed  on  the  thoughts  of  her  husband." 

As  the  reason  assigned  in  these  passages  for  not  addressing  i?ita  in 
Sanskrit  such  as  a  Brahman  would  use,  is  not  that  she  would  not 
understand  it,  but  that  it  would  alarm  her,  and  be  unsuitable  to  the 
speaker,  we  may  take  them  as  indicating  that  Sanskrit,  if  not  spoken 
by  women  of  the  upper  classes  at  the  time  when  the  Eamayana  was 
written  (whenever  that  may  have  been  ™),  was  at  least  understood  by 
them,™  and  was  commonly  spoken  by  men  of  the  priestly  class,  and 
other  educated  persons.  By  the  Sanskrit  proper  to  an  [ordinary]  man, 
alluded  to  in  the  second  passage,  may  perhaps  be  understood  not  a 
language  in  which  words  different  from  those  of  Brahmanical  Sanskrit 
were  used,  but  the  employment  of  diction  correct,  but  neither  formal 
and  elaborate,  nor  familiar  and  vulgar.  It  would  be  comparatively 
easy,  even  for  persons  who  could  not  speak  correct  Sanskrit,  to  under- 
stand it  when  spoken,  at  the  early  period  here  in  question,  when  the 
contemporary  vernacular,  if  different  from  Saoskrit,  deviated  from  it  so 
very  much  less  than  the  modem  Indian  vernaculars  do. 

'"  Lassen,  Ind.  Alt.,  vol.  i.,  pp.'484,  ff.,  does  not  determine  its  date. 

"s  In  the  Mrichliakati,  however,  written  probably  at  a  later  period  (see  al)ove, 
p.  12,  note  4),  a  woman's  pronunciation,  when  reading  or  repeating  Sanskrit  is 
spoken  'of  as  something  laughable  (p.  44,  Stenzler's  ed.) : — mama  dava  dtwehim  jjeva 
hassaih  jaadi  itthiae  sakkadam  padhantJe  manmsena  u  kaalim  gaantena  |  itthia  dava 
salihadam  padhantt  dimanavanassa  via  gitthi  adhiam  susuaadi,  which  is  thus  trans- 
lated l)y  Professor  Wilson  (Theatre  of  the  Hindus,  i.  60)  : — "  Now,  to  me,  there  are 
two  things  at  which  I  cannot  choose  but  laugh,  a  woman  reading  Sanskrit,  and  a 
man  sin^ng  a  song-;  the  woman  snuffles  like  a  young  cow,  when  the  rope  is  first 
passed  through  her  nostrils." 


ON  THE  EMPLOYMENT  OF  SANSKRIT.  159 

Again,  an  expression  occurs  in  the  Aranya  Xanda,  xi.  56,  from 
■which  it  seems  as  if  the  use  of  Sanskrit  was  a  characteristic  of  Brah- 
mans;  and  no  doubt  they  were  the  persons  who  chiefly  spoke  it 
(Bombay  edition) :  dharayan  hrahmanam  rupam  Ihdlah  samskritam 
mdan  \  dma/ntrayati  vipran  sa  iraddham  uddisya  nirghrimh  \  '"  "  As- 
suming the  form  of  a  Brahman,  and  speaking  Sanskrit,  the  ruthless 
Eakshasa  Ilvala  invited  the  Brahmans  to  a  funeral  ceremony." 

In  the  Sundara  Kanda,  Ixxxii.  3  (Gorresio's  edition),  the  discourse 
of  Praliasta,  one  of  the  Rakshasas,  is  characterized  as  samhritafhhetu- 
sampannam  arthmaeh  cha  \  "  polished  (saihshritam),  supported  by 
reasons,  and  judicious  in  its  purport;"  and  in  the  Yuddha  Kanda, 
(ciT.  2)  the  god  Brahma  is  said  to  have  addressed  to  Eama  a  discourse 
which  was  samskritam  madhuram  ilalcshnam  a/rihavad  dharma-sam,hitam\ 
"  polished,  sweet,  gentle,  profitable,  and  consonant  with  virtue." 
But  in  neither  of  these  two  passages  does  there  appear  to  be  any 
reference  to  the  special  meaning  of  the  word  samskrita. 

In  the  subjoined  lines  (Sundara  Kanda,  xviii.  18,f  ),  the  word  samskara 
is  employed,  if  not  in  a  technical  signification,  corresponding  to  that  of 
samskrita,  at  aU  events  in  a  manner  which  enables  us  (as  Weber  observes) 
to  perceive  how  that  technical  sense  of  the  word  arose :  duhkhena  lubudhe 
chaindm  Sanuman  Marutatmajah  |  samskarena  yatJia  Mnam  vdcham  ar- 
thanta/ram  gatdm '"  |  tishthantlm  analankaram  dlpyamdndm  sva-tejasd  \ 
"Hanuman,  Son  of  the  Wind,  recognized  Sita  with  difficulty,  stand- 
ing, as  she  was,  unadorned,  radiant  only  with  her  own  brilliancy : 
just  as  a  word  is  not  readily  understood,  when  its  sense  is  changed 
by  the  want  of  its  correct  grammatical  form." 

"'  The  commentator  explains  the  first  line  thus :  "  brahmana-rupcm  "  brahmana- 
sadrisa-vesham  \  "  scms/critam  vadan  "  brahmana-vad  iti  seshah  \ 

"8  The  reading  of  this  line  ia  identical  in  the  Bombay  edition,  xv.  39 ;  and  the 
commentator  there  has  the  following  note :  StMnanulepcmadir  anga-samikarah  \ 
vacho  vyalearcma-jndnadi-jah  mmskarah  \  devyah  arthantara-gatatvam  desantara- 
gatatvam  |  vachas tu vivahshitarthad anyartha-bodhakhatvam  \  vacho'rtho yathdvya- 
karamdy-abhyasa-duhTehena  vyutpattiin  sampadya  budhyate  tad-vat  Sitam  leashtena 
bubtidhe  \  "  Bathing,  anointing,  etc.,  are  the  decoration  {samskara)  of  the  body. 
The  decoration  (or  correctness,  samskara)  of  speech  is  derived  from  a  knowledge 
of  grammar,  etc.  The  phrase  arthantaragatatva,  when  applied  to  Sita,  signifies 
her  having  gone  to  a  foreign  country ;  but  when  applied  to  speech,  it  signifies  the 
denoting  of  another  meaning  than  the  one  intended.  As  the  sense  of  speech  is 
understood  after  proficiency  has  been  attained  with  difficulty  by  the  study  of  grammar, 
so  he  (Hanuman)  recognized  Sita  by  hard  effort."    Professor  Aufrecht  has  furnished 


160  PRONIiNCIATION  OF  WOEDS  IN  THE  VEDA. 

Eighth: — From  the  researches  of  Professors  Kuhn"'  and  Benfey™ 
-it  afpears  that  many  words,  which  in  modem  Sanskrit  are  only  of 
one,  two,  or  three,  etc.,  syllables,  have,  in  the  Veda,  to  be  read  as 
of  two,  three,  or  four,  etc.,  syllables,  i.e.,  as  of  one  syllable  longer, 
in  order  to  make  up  the  fuU  length  of  the  lines  required  by  the  metre 
employed  by  the  Vedic  poets.  Thus  tvam  has  to  be  read  as  tvam; 
vyuahtau  as  vimhtau;  twryam,  as  imrvyam;  martyaya  as  martiaya; 
wn/tenyam  as  vareniam;  amatyam  as  amatiam  ;  svadlwa/ram  as  maShva- 
ram ;  and  svastibhih  as  mastibhih.  Now  as  this  mode  of  lengthening 
words  is  common  in.Prakyit,  it  would  appear  that  the  Prakrit  pro- 
nunciation agrees  in  this  respect  with  that  of  the  old  Sanskrit  in 
contradistinction  to  the  more  recent.  But  as  the  Prakrit  pronunciation 
must  have  been  borrowed  from  a  previously  existing  popular  pro- 
nunciation, which  was  at  the  same  time  that  employed  by  the  Vedic 
poets,  we  find  here  another  reason  for  concluding  that  the  old  spoken 
language  of  India  and  the  Sanskrit  of  the  Vedas  were  at  one  time 
identical.'*' 

me  with  the  following  text  on  the  subject  of  Sanskrit  being  at  one  time  spoken.  He 
informs  me :  "  The  Sarasvatlkanthabharana  speaks,  in  the  beginning  of  the  second 
chapter,  of  the  use  of  the  vulgar  tongue  in  poetry,  and  says  in  eloka  16 :  fo  'bhuvann 
gdya-rajaaya  rajye  prulcrita-bhashinah  \  kale  iri-Sahasankasya  ke  na  samskrita- 
vadinah  |  According  to  the  author,  Sanskrit  was  universally  spoken  in  the  time  of 
Sahasanka,  whom  we  know  as  the  founder  of  an  era.  This  is  an  individual  view,  but 
it  is  curious  as  coming  from  a  Hindu,  who  lived,  say,  1,050  years  after  Christ."  The 
sense  of  the  verse  quoted  by  Professor  Aufrecht  is  as  follows :  "  During  the  reign  of 
the  first  king,  who  spoke  Prakrit  ?  In  the  time  of  Sahasanka  (Vikramaditya),  who 
did  Hot  speak  Sanskrit  f  " 

"'  Zeitschrift  fur  die  Kunde  des  Morgenlandes,  iii.  80. 

•8"  Sama-veda,  Introduction,  p.  liii.,  ff.  See  also  the  articles  of  Dr.  BoUensen  in 
Orient  und  Occident,  ii.  467,  ff.,  and  in  the  Zeitsch.  der  Deut.  Morg.  GesellBohafl, 
xiii.  669,  ff.,  and  Prof.  MuUer's  translation  of  the  E.V.,  vol.  i.,  pref.  pp.  Ixxviii,  ff. 

'*'  I  quote  some  remarks  of  Benfey,  Sama-veda,  Introd.  p.  liii. : — "  The  necessity 
for  frequently  changing  the  liquids  y  and  v  into  the  correspondent  vowels  i  and  «,  had 
been  remarked  by  the  Indian  writers  on  prosody,  who  teach  that,  wherever  the  metre 
requires  it,  iy  and  tm  should  be  read  instead  of  y  and  v.  In  many  words  the  former 
mode  of  writing  appears  to  have  prevailed ;  as  is  rendered  probable  by  the  differences 
of  reading  between  the  Sama-veda  and  the  Eig-veda,  the  former,  for  instance,  read- 
ing tugriya,  subhuvah,  siidrtwam,  where  the  latter  reads  tiigfya,  subhoah,  sudrvam ; 
and  the  latter,  on  the  contrary,  reading  samudriya,  where  the  former  reads  samudrya. 
.  .  .  .  But  the  necessity  of  making  the  change  in  order  to  obtain  a  reading 
conformable  to  the  metre,  is  of  such  ordinary  occurrence  that  we  are  soon  led  to 
conclude  that,  at  the  time  when  the  Vedas  were  composed,  the  liquids  {y  and  v), 
which  appear  in  tie  Sanhitas  as  we  now  have  them,  had  not  yet,  for  the  most  part. 


VARIOUS  STAGES  OF  SANSKRIT  LITERATURE.  161 

Sect.  X. —  Various  stages  of  Sanskrit  literature,  and  the  different  forms 
in  which  they  exhibit  the  Sanskrit  language :  the  later  Vedic  com- 
mentators :  earlier  expounders :  the  Mrukta :  the  Brahmanas :  the 
Vedic  hymns:  imperfect  comprehension  of  them  in  later  times  from 
changes  in  the  language :  the  hymns  composed  in  the  vernacular  idiom 
of  their  age}'^ 

As  I  have  shown  in  the  preceding  section  that  Sanskrit  -was  once 
a  spoken  language,  it  must,  in  that  its  earlier  stage,  have  been  exposed 
to  the  mutations  to  which  all  spoken  languages  are  subject  from  their 
very  nature.  Sanskrit  must,  in  the  course  of  ages,  have  become  very 
different  from  what  it  originally  was.'^'  And,  in  fact,  we  find  from 
the  records  of  Indian  literature,  that  the  Sanskrit,  as  it  is  brought 
before  us  in  the  different  S'astras,  has  gone  through  different  phases. 
The  most  modem  is  that  in  which  we  find  it  in  the  Itihasas,  Puranas, 
and  Smritis.  The  Itihasas  and  Puranas  are  undoubtedly  not  to  be 
ranked  with  the  oldest  Sanskrit  writings,  for  they  all  imply  that  there 

begun  to  be  pronounced,  but  that,  in  their  stead,  the  corresponding  vowels  i  and  « 
were  employed."  On  the  other  hand,  y  and  v  must  sometimes  be  read  instead  of 
iy  and  uv  (p.  Ivi.).  The  fifteen  verses  of  the  Purusha  Sukta  (cited  in  the  first 
volume  of  this  work,  pp.  8,  f.),  which  are  composed  in  the  Anushtup  metre,  will  be 
•generally  found  to  have  the  proper  number  of  feet,  if  not  in  other  respects  to  scan 
correctly, — ^if  the  preceding  remarks  be  attended  to.  Thus  in  the  first  verse,  line 
second,  the  words  vritm  and  atyatishthat  must  be  read  apart,  and  not  united  by 
sandhi.  Bhavyam  (in  the  first  line  of  the  second  verse)  must  be  lengthened  to 
ihaviyam  ;  vyahramat  (second  line,  fourth  verse)  to  viaJcramat ;  sadhya  (second  line, 
seventh  verse)  to  sadhiya;  ajyam  (first  line,  eighth  verse,  though  not  in  second  line, 
sixth  verse)  to  ajiam;  gramya&eha  (second  line,  eighth  verse)  to  gramiascha ; 
vyadadhuh  and  vyakalpm/am,  (first  line,  eleventh  verse)  ia  viadadhnh  wAnakaVpa/ym; 
and  rajanyah  (first  line,  twelfth  verse)  to  rajcmiah, 

W2  In  revising  this  section  (composed  originally  in  1 858)  for  the  press,  I  have  had 
the  assistance  of  Professor  Miiller's  work  on  Ancient  Sanskrit  Literature,  which 
has  enabled  me  to  make  a  few  additions,  and  to  modify  some  of  my  previous  state- 
ments.     [Note  to  first  edition.] 

'*'  I  fear  that  the  text  of  Patanjali  (Mababhashya,  p.  104)  may  be  cited  against 
me  here : — nityas  eha,  sabdah  \  nityeshu  cha  dahdeahu  JcutaBthair  aviehalibhir  varnair 
hhmitcmyam  anapayopajana-vikariihih  \  "Words  are  eternal;  and  in  the  case  of 
eternal  words  we  must  have  immutable  and  immovable  letters,  free  from  diminution, 
or  increase,  or  alteration."  But  the  words  which  Bhaskara  Acharyya  applied  to 
astronomy  are  equally  applicable  to  grammar: — atra  gmita-alccmdhe  tipapattiman 
ma  agamah  prcmanam  \  "  In  this  astronomical  department  scripture  is  authori- 
tative only  when  it  is  supported  by  demonstration."  This  is  true,  also,  of  all  other 
matters, 'which,  like  Grammar,  come  within  the  sphere  of  science. 


162  ULTIMATE  FIXATION  OF  SANSKRIT. 

were  many  older  records  of  Hindu  antiquity  existing  when  they 
were  compiled,  and  often  quote  various  ancient  verses.'**  The 
Mahabharata  frequently  introduces  old  legends'  with  the  following 
formula,  which,,  however,  may  often  mean  nothing:  atrapy  uda- 
hwrantimam  iUTiasam  pwatmam  \  "  Here  they  adduce  this  ancient 
narrative."  (See  vol.  i.,  p.  127.)  In  aU  these  different  classes 
of  works,  which,  in  their  present  form,  are  comparatively  recent 
parts  of  Indian  literature,  the  Sanskrit  language  is  substantially 
the  same.  At  the  time  when  even  the  oldest  of  these  works 
were  reduced  into  their  present  form,  we  must  suppose  that  the 
Sanskrit  had  nearly  ceased  to  be  a  spoken  tongue,  and  had  become 
gradually  stereotyped  as  a  polished  and  learned  language,  by  the 
precepts  of  those  grammarians  who  preceded  Panini,  as  well  as  of  that 
scholar  himself  and  his  successors.'"  As  the  language  which  had  thus 
been  polished,  improved,  and  fixed  by  precise  grammatical  rules,  ceased 
to  be  popularly  spoken,  it  was  preserved  from  any  future  changes.  In 
this  way  the  Sanskrit  language  has  remained  almost  unaltered  for 
more  than  two  thousand  years,  till  it  has  acquired  the  appearance  of 
immutability ;  while  its  antiquity,  and  the  perfection  of  form  which 
it  eventually  acquired,  and  has  so  long  retained,  have  caused  it  to  be 
regarded  as  of  divine  origin;  just  as  every  science  which  has  descended 
from  a  remote  age,  or  even  from  a  period  comparatively  recent,  is 

'**  That  they  are  not  all  of  one  age  is  held  by  an  enlightened  Indian  Pandit, 
Kvara  Chandra  Vidyasagar,  in  the  Bengali  preface  to  his  Rijnpatha,  or  Sanskrit 
selections,  as  follows  : — sokSl  puran  Spekhya  Vishnupuraner  rSchSna  prachm  hodh 
hoy  I  yabotlyo  puran  Vedobyaspronlt  boliya  prosiddhi  achhe  \  Icintu  puran  sokoler 
rSc/wna  paroapor  eto  iibhinn  je  ek  bySktir  rSehit  boliya  bodh  hSy  tia  \  Vishnupuran 
BTmgubot  o  BrofunSbaibSrttSpuraner  ekek  Sms  path  kSrile  ei  tin  gronth  ek  lekfwnir 
mukhhSite  vinirgot  boliya  prStlti  hooya  dushkor  |  Vishnvpwran  prSbhritir  sShit 
Mohabhdroter  rockHnar  et^  bibhinnSta  je  jini  Vishnupuran  kimba  BhagSbot  Sthoba 
BrS/imBbaibSrttSpuran  roehona  koriyachhen  tainhar  rSchit  bodh  hoy  na  \ 

"  The  composition  of  the  Vishnu-purana  appears  to  have  preceded  that  of  all  the 
other  Furanas.  It  is  commonly  said  that  all  the  Puranas  were  composed  by  Veda- 
vyasa.  But  the  style  of  the  different  Puranas  is  so  various  that  they  cannot  be  con- 
ceived to  be  the  work  of  one  person.  After  reading  a  portion  of  the  Vishnu-puiana, 
another  of  the  Bhagavata,  and  a  third  of  the  Brahmavaivartta-purana,  it  is  difficult 
to  believe  them  all  to  have  proceeded  from  one  pen.  ...  So,  too,  there  is  such 
a  discrepancy  between  the  style  of  the  Mahabharata  and  that  of  the  Vishnu-purana, 
and  the  other  works  mentioned  above,  that  it  cannot  be  imagined  to  be  the  com- 
position of  the  same  person  by  whom  they  were  written. 

1B6  gee,  however,  the  distinction  made  by  Lassen  between  the  Epic  poems  (Itihasas) 
and  the  Puranas,  in  the  passage  cited  above,  p.  133,  note. 


EARLY  MUTATIONS  OP  SANSKRIT.  163 

regarded  by  the  people  of  India  as  supernatural.'^'  Prior  to  this  era, 
however,  and  as  long  as  it  had  continued  to  be  commonly  spoken  by  the 
lower  or  upper  classes,  the  Sanskrit  had  been  liable  to  constant  fluctua- 
tions in  the  forms  of  its  inflections.  Accordingly,  in  the  works  which  are 
more  ancient  than  the  Smritis  and  Itihasas,  we  find  various  difi'erences 
of  grammatical  form,  and  a  style  altogether  more  antique.  This  is 
to  some  extent  the  case  in  the  Brahmanas  and  Upanishads,  where  we 
encounter  a  simplicity  of  syntax  and  a  tautology  of  style,  together 
with  many  particles,  and  some  modes  of  construction  and  forms,  which 
are  forei^  to  the  later  works."'  The  Brahmanas,  however,  are  only 
to  be  regarded  as  a  middle  stage  between  the  Vedic  hymns  (mantras) 
and  the  more  modern  Sanskrit.  It  is  to  the  hymns  of  the  Eigveda, 
most  of  which  are  separated  by  an  interval  of  several  centuries,  even 
from  the  Brahmanas,  that  we  must  resort  if  we  would  discover  how 
wide  are  the  differences  between  the  Sanskrit  in  its  oldest  known 
form  and  its  most  modern  shape.  In  these  hymns  we  find  various 
forms  of  inflection  and  conjugation  which  are  not  to  be  traced  in  more 
modem  writings,  and  numerous  words  which  either  disappear  alto- 
gether in  later  authors,  or  are  used  by  them  in  a  different  sense. 
These  hymns  are,  in  fact,  by  far  the  oldest  parts  of  Indian  literature. 
That  this  is  the  case,  is  proved  by  the  whole  nature  and  contents  of 
the  other  portions  of  that  literature  which  is  connected  with  those 
hymns.  The  hymns  are  the  essential  part  of  the  Veda ;  all  the  other 
writings  which  bear  the  name  of  Teda  are  dependent  on  the  hymns, 
and  subservient  to  their  explanation  or  liturgical  use.  In  the  com- 
mentary called  the  Vedartha-praka^a,  on  the  Taittirlya  Sanhita,  p.  9, 
it  is  said :  Yadyapi  Mhntra-irahmandtmako  Vedas  tathapi  Brahmanasya 
mantra-vyalchyana-rupatvad   mantrah  eva  adau   samdmnatdh  |      "AI- 

'86  The  philosophers  Eamanuja  and  MadhTachSryya  are  called  incarnations  of 
S'esha  and  Vayu  (Wilson's  Hindu  Sects,  pp.  24  and  87),  and  S'ankara  Acharya  is 
celebrated  in  theVrihad  Dharma-purana  as  an  incarnation  of  Vishnu. — Colebrooke's 
-Essays,  i.  103,  104. 

'8'  Thus,  e.g.  any  one  who  is  familiar  with  modern  Sanskrit  mil  recognize  in  the 
passage  cited  from  the  Kaushttaki-brahmaua  in  the  first  yolume  of  this  work  (p.  328), 
a  dissimilarity  of  style.  The  separation  of  the  particle  abhi  from  the  verb  aihavat, 
in  the  phrase  abhi  Saudasan  abhmat  \  "He  became  superior  to  the  Saudasas,"  is  a 
remnant  of  the  Vedic  usage.  In  modern  Sanskrit  the  preposition  would  not  be  thus 
severed  from  the  verb.  In  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  xi.  6,  1,  10,  and  12,  the 
following  ancient  forms  occur,  tat  for  tasmat,  "from'that,"  vri'msai,  "Do  thou 
choose,"  or  "  thou  shalt  choose." 


164  AGES  OP  YEDIC  LITERATUEE. 

though  the  Veda  consists  of  Mantra  and  Brahmana,  yet,  as  the  Brah- 
manas  have  the  character  of  explanations  of  the  Mantras,  [it  follows 
that]  the  latter  were  the  first  recorded."  And.  in  a  verse  referred  to 
by  S'ankara  Acharya  in  his  commentary  on  the  Bvihad  Aranyaka 
Upanishad  (Bib.  Ind.  ii.  855,  ff.)  it  i«  said  :  Brahmam-pralhmaih 
mantrap  |  "  The  mantras  are  the  souTces  of  the  Brahmanas."  This 
may  be  made  clearer  by  beginning  with  the  most  recent  parts  of  the 
literature  connected  with  the  Vedas,  and  going  gradually  back  to  the 
oldest  parts. 

First: — ^Two  of  the  most  recent  commentators  on  the  Vedas  are 
Sayana  Acharya,  who  lived  in  the  fourteenth  century  a.d.,'*°  and  wrote 
a  detailed  commentary  called  Vedlxthapraka^,  on  the  whole  of  the 
Eigveda  ;  and  Mahldhara,  who  compiled  a  commentary  entitled 
Vedadipa  on  the  Va^saneyl  Sanhita  of  the  Tajur-veda. 

Second:  In  such  works  as  these  we  find  reference  made  to  earlier 
writers  on  the  Vedas,  such  as  S'aunaka,  the  author  of  the  Brihaddevata, 
Taska,  the  author  of  the  Nirukta,  and  many  others,  with  qjuotations 
from  their  works. 

Professor  Muller^'*^  divides  the  Vedic  literature,  properly  so  called, 
into  four  periods,  which,  in  the  inverse  order  of  their  antiquity,  are 
the  Sutra  period,  the  Brahmana  period,  the  Mantra  period,  and  the 
Chhandas  period.  The  Chhandas  period,  during  which  the  oldest 
hymns  preserved  in  the  Eigveda  collection  were  written,  he  supposes 
to  have  lasted  from  1200  to  1000  b.c.  Then  followed  the  Mantra 
period,  from  1000  to  800  B.a,  in  the  course  of  which  the  more  recent 
of  the  Vedic  hymns  were  composed,  and  the  whole  were  gathered 
together  into  one  Sanhita  (or  ooUeotion).  Next  in  order  was  the 
Brahmaea  period,  from  800  to  600  B.C.,  during  which  the  chief 
theological  and  liturgical  tracts  bearing  this  title  were  composed  and 
ooUected.^"  And,  lastly,  we  have  the  Sutra  period,  extending  from  600 

IBS  Professor  'Wilson's  fiigveda  Sanhita,  Vol.  I.  Introduc.  p.  xlyiii.  Miiller, 
"  Chips,"  (1st  ed.)  p.  24.  Both,  Introd,  to  Nirukta,  p.  liii.  refers  Mahidhara  (if  not 
Sayana  also)  to  the  sixteenth  century. 

™  See  his  "  History  of  Ancient  Sanskrit  Literature,"  pp.  70,  244,  249,  313,  445, 
497,  672. 

190  Professor  Haug  thinks  all  these  works  are  older.  In  the  Introduction  to  his 
Aitareya  Brahmana,  vol.  i,  p.  47,  he  writes:  "We  do  not  hesitate  therefore  to 
assign  the  composition  of  the  hulk  Of  the  Brahmaaas  to  the  years  1400-1200  b.c.  ; 


TASKA.  ON  THE  i^ISHIS  AND  LATEE  TEACHERS.  165 

to  200  B.'o.,  in  which  the  ceremonial  precepts  of  the  earlier  tradition 
■were  reduced  (by  men  -who,  however,  were  no  longer,  lilce  their  pre- 
decessors, regarded  as  inspired)  into  a  more  tangible,  precise,  and 
systematic  form  than  they  had  previously  possessed.  The  works  of 
this  period  were  not  all  composed  in  the  concise  form  of  Sutras,  Ijut 
some  were  in  verse  and  others  in  prose. 

Among  the  latter  is  this  work  of  Taska,  who  (as  we  have  seen, 
p.  153)  is  supposed  by  Professor  Muller  ("Chips,"  p.  74)  to  have 
lived  in  the  fifth  century  B.C.  Taska  found  an  earlier  work  entitled 
the  Mghantus,  made  up  of  classified  lists  of  Vedic,  and  partly  obso- 
■lete,  words,  existing  in  his  day';  to  which  he  alludes  in  thb  following 
passage,  at  the  very  commencement  of  his  work  (i.  1):  samamnafah 
samdmnatah  \  sa  vynkhatimyah  \  tarn  imam  samanmayam  '*  Nighmta- 
-»»A"  ity  achakihate  j  "A.  sacted  record  {samdmndya)  has  been  com- 
piled, which  is  to  be  expounded.     This  is  called  the  Nighantus."  "' 

And  again  (in  i.  20) :  sahMtkrita-dharmdmh  rishayo  haVkavuh  \ 
ie  'varehhyo  'sdkshdtkrita-dharmabhydh  Mpadeiena  mantrdn  samprdduh:\ 
'iipadesaya  gldyanto  'vare  hilma-grahandya'^^  imam  grcmth&m  samd- 
mndsishitr  vedam  eha  'veddngdni  eha  \  [lilmam  bhilmam  Ihasanam  itivd']^ 

"The  rishis  had  an  intuitive  insight  into  duty.  They,  by  tuition, 
handed  down  the  mantras  to  subsequent  preceptors,  who  were  destitute 
of  this  intuitive  perception.  These  later  teachers,  declining  in  the 
power  of  communicatiog  instruction,  for  facility  of  comprehension 
•through  the  division  of  the  subject-matter,  arranged  this  book  (the 
Nighantus),  the  Veda,  and  the  Yedangas.     \\_Bilma  means  hhilma, 

-fof  the  Safiihita  we  require  a  period  of  at  least  500-600  years,  with  an  intei'val 
df  about  200  years  between  the  end  of  the  proper  Brahmana  period.  Thus  we 
obtain  for  the  bulk  of  the  Saffihita  the  space  from  1400-2000  ;  the  oldest  hymns  and 
,'sacrifioial  formulas  may  be  a  few  hundred  years  more  ancient  still,  so  that  we  would 
fix  the  very  commencement  of  Vedic  Literature  between  2400-2000  e.o."  See  the 
£r8t  volume  of  this  work,  2nd  ed.,  p.  2,  if. 

*3i  On  this  the  commentator  Durgacharya  annotates  as  follows :  sa  eha  [saim- 
m^-ayah]  rishibhir  Mantrartha-parijnandi/a  udaharanabhutah  panehddhyayl  sastra- 
sangraha-bhmena  eh'asminn  amnaye  granthikritah  ity  utthah.  "  The  sense  ie,  that 
'  This  sacred  record  which  had  been  set  forth  by  rishis  as  a  specimen  of  the  mode 
of  explaiting  the  sense  of  the  mantras,  has  lieen  formed  into  one  collection  in  five 
■chapters.' " 
'    "'  "  Das  splitterweise  Fassen,"  B.  and  R. 

193  The  words  in  brackets  are  regarded  by  Prof.  Roth  as  spurious  (Illust.  of 
Nirukta,.  p.  14,  f.).    I  quote  them,  however,  as  they  are  commented  on  by  Durga. 


166  DUEGA'S  COMMENT  ON  THE  PASSAGE 

division,  or  Ihcisana,  illustration.] "  This  passage  proves  at  once  the 
priority  of  the  Nighantus  to  the  Nirukta,  and  also  the  still  greater 
antiquity  of  the  hymns  which  form  the  subject  of  explanation  in 
both."* 

The  fallowing  are  the  remarks  of  Durgacharya,  the  commentator, 
on  this  passage  (Nir.  i.  20)  : — 

Sakshatkrito  yaw  dharmah  sahshad  drishto  pratwUishtena  tapasa  te 
ime  "  saMhatkrita-dharmanah  "  \  he  punas  te  iti  \  uchyate  \  "  rishayah  " 
rishanti  dmuahmdt  karmanah  evam-arihiwatd  mantrena  mmyuktad 
amuna  prakdrena  eva'm-Ukshana-phala-viparinamo  hhavati  iti  rishm/a^  | 
"  rishir  darsandd"  iti  vakshyati  \  tad  etat  karmanah  phala-vipa/ti- 
nama-darsanam  avpaeharikyd  vrittyd  uktafh  "  sdkshdtkriia-dha/rmdml}  " 
Hi  1  na  hi  dharmasya  darsanam  asti  \  atyantdpurvo  hi  dharmah  \ 
aha  1  kim  teshdm  iti  \  uchyate  |  "te  'vardbhyo  'sdkshatkrita-dharma- 
hhyah  vpadeiena  mantrdn  samprddmlf "  \  te  ye  sdkshdtkrita- 
dharmdnas  te  'varehhyo  'vara-kdlinelhyati  iakti-Mnelhyah  §rutarshi- 
Ihyah  \  teshdm  hi  irutvd  tatah  paschdd  rishitvam  vpajdyate  na 
yathd  purveshdm  sdkshdtkritadhwrmdndm  iravanam  anfard  eva  \ 
aha  t  him  telhyah  iti  |  te  'varelhyah  "  vpadekena"  Ushyopddhydyikayd 
vrittyd  mantrdn  grcmthato  'rthataS  cha  "  samprddu^"  samprattavanfa^  | 
te  ^pi  cha  upadeiena  eva  jagrihuh  J  atha  te  ^py  "upadeidya  gldywntah 
ava/re  hihna-grahandya  imam  granthafh  samdmnasishur  vedaih  cha  veddn- 
gdni  cha  "  iti  |  "  wpadeidya  "  wpade&drtham  \  katharh  ndma  upadiiya- 
mdnam  ete  ^aknuyur  grihltum  ity  evam  artham  adhikrityd  gldyantah 
khidyamdndh  teshi   [?]    agrihnatsu    tad-anukampayd    teshdm   dyushah 

JM  Professor  Both,  in  his  Introduction  to  the  Nirukta,  p.  xiii,  remarks  thus  on  this 
passage: — "Here  Taska  ascribes  the  compilation  of  the  small  eoUections  of  words 
and  names  which  forms  the  basis  of  his  explanation,  ia  an  undefined  way  to  an 
ancient  tradition,  not  indeed  da-ting  from  the  earliest  period,  when  faith  and  doctrine 
flourished  without  artificial  aids,  but  from  the  generations  next  to  that  era,  which 
strove  by  arrangement  and  writing  to  preserve  the  treasures  which  they  had  in- 
herited. He  further  puts  the  Naighantuka  in  one  class  with  the  Vedas  and 
Vedangas.  By  the  composition  of  theVedas,  which  Taska  here  places  in  the  second 
period  of  Indian  history,  he  cannot  mean  the  production  of  the  hymns  transmitted 
by  the  lishis,  which  were  always  esteemed  in  India  as  the  essential  part  of  the  Vedas, 
and  were  regarded  in  the  same  light  by  Yaska  in  the  passage  before  us.  All,  there- 
fore, that  could  be  done  by  later  generations  was  to  arrange  these  hymns,  and  com- 
mit them  to  writing.  We  find  here  a  recollection  of  a  comparatively  late  reduction 
into  writing  of  the  mental  productions  of  early  ages,  an  event  which  has  not  yet 
attracted  sufficient  notice  in  its  bearing  upon  the  history  of  Indian  literature." 


QUOTED  PEOM  THE  NIEUKTA.  167 

san^oeham  aveksh/a  Mlanwupam  cha  ffrahana-iakUm  "  Mlmagrahanaya 
imam  granthm, "  gmadi-deva^atny-cmtam  samdmndtavantah  \  Mm  matam 
etena  iti  \  uchyate  \  "  vedam,  cha  veddngdni  oha "  ita/rdni  iti  \  katham 
punah  mmdmndsishw  iti  \  aha  \  irinu  \  veda'lh  tdvad  ekam  santam  ati- 
mdhattvdd  dv/radhyeyam  aneka-idkhd-lhedena  samdmndsishuh  sukha- 
grahandya  vydsena  samdmndtavantah  |  te  ehmimsatidhd  Idhvrichyam 
ekasatadhd  ddhvaryavam  sahasradhd  sdmavedam  navadhd  dtharvanam  | 
veddngdny  api  \  tad  yatha  \  vyakaranam  ashtadhd  niruMam  ohatwda- 
iadhd  ityevam-ddi  \  evam  samdmndsishur  hhedena  grahandrtham  |  katham 
ndma  |  Ihinndny  etdni  idkhdntardni  laghuni  sukham  grihniyw  ete  iakti- 
Mndh  alpdymho  manushydh  ity  evam-artham  samdmndsishuh  \  hilma-iab' 
dam  Ihashya-vakya-prasaktam  nirlramti  \  yad  etad  hilmam  ity  uktam  etad 
hhMmam  veddndm  hhedanam  \  hhedo  vydsah  ity  a/rthah  \  "  hhdsanam 
iti  m"  I  athavd  Ihdsanam  evam  hilma-Saldena  uchyate  \  veddnga-vyndnena 
hhdsate  prakdiate  veddrthah  iti  |  atah  idam  uktam  hilmam  iti  \  evam 
bhider  hhdsater  vd  hilma-sahdah  \  evam  idam  rishihhyo  niruhtaidstram 
dydtam  itardni  cha  angdni  iti  parisodhitah  dgamah  \ 

"They  to  whose  minds  duty  was  clearly  present,  i.e.,  by  whom 
through  eminent  devotion  it  was  intuitively  seen,  were  the  persons 
described  by  the  term  sdkshdt-krita-dharmdnas.  Again,  who  were 
they  ?  The  rishis,"^  who  are  called  so  because  they  flow  (rishanti) ; 
because  from  a  particular  ceremony  accompanied  by  a  mantra  of  such 
and  such  import,  in  a  certain  way,  such  and  such  a  reward  results. 
And  the  author  wUl  afterwards  declare  that  the  word  '  rishi '  comes 
from  '  seeing '  {daHandt).  Here  '  those  who  have  an  intuitive  per- 
ception of  duty'  are  spoken  of  in  a  metaphorical  way,  as  'seeing' 
that  a  reward  results  from  a  ceremony ;  for  duty  cannot  be  seen,  being 
something  entirely  invisible.  He  proceeds.  But  what  of  these  rishis? 
He  tells  us  :  '  They  handed  down  the  mantras  by  oral  tuition  to  sub- 
sequent men,  who  had  not  the  same  intuitive  perception  of  duty,'  i.e. 
those  rishis  who  had  an  intuitive  perception  of  duty  handed  down  the 
mantras  to  subsequent  men,  i.e.  to  those  who  were  rishis  by  audition 
{irutarshis)f  of  a  later  age,  and  destitute  of  power ;   *  rishis,'   whose 

"5  About  the  different  kinds  and  races  of  rishis,  see  Tol.  i.  of  this  work,  p.  400, 
note,  and  Prof.  Aufrecht's  Catalogue,  p.  41,  col,  2 ;  as  well  as  the  3rd  vol.  of  this 
work,  passim ;  see  the  index. 


168  DTJEGA'S  COMMENT  ON  NIEUIKTA,  i.  20. 

risHhood  arose  from  what  they  had  heard  from  others,  and  not  -with- 
OTit  hearing,  as  was  the  case  with  those  earlier  fishis  who  had  an 
intuitive  perception  of  dnty.  He  proceeds.  What  did  the  earliest 
ri^his  do  to  these  later  ones  ?  '  They  handed  down  the  mantras  by 
tuition  (viz.,  by  the  function  of  instructing  their  pupils)  according 
to  their  text  and  meaning ; "'  and  the  pupils  received  them  through 
tuition.  Then ''these  later  men,  being  grieved,"'  with  the  view  of  afford- 
ing instruction,  arranged  this  book  and  the  Teda,  and  the  Vedangas, 
in  portions,  for  facility  of  comprehension.'  'For  the  purpose  of  in- 
struction:' 'grieved,'  afflicted  by  the  apprehension  that  their  pupils 
would  not  icomprehend  what  was  taught  them ;  and  when  they  did  not 
understand,  being  actuated  by  compassion  towards  them,  and  having 
regard  to  the  greater  shortness  of  their  !lives,  and  to  the  diminution 
in  their  power  of  icomprehension,  which  was  occasioned  by  the  influ- 
ence :of  the  times,  they  compiled  this  book  [the  Nighantu],  begin- 
ning with  '^»«,'  and  ending  with  *  devapatnyaa,''  in  parts,  for  facility 
of  comprehension  by  division  of  the  subject-matter.  He  next  tells  us 
what  is  meant  by  this  :  the  Vedas,  and  the  other  Vedangas.  But  how 
did  they  compile  these  works  ?  He  tells  us,  listen :  By  separation,  they 
-arranged  the  Veda  (which  being  up  to  that  period  one,  was  difficult  to 
study,  from  its  extreme  magnitude)  in  a  number  of  different  S'akhas,  for 
the  pui;pose  of  easier  comprehension.  The  Eigvedawas  arranged  in  21 
^akhas,  the  Tajush  in  101,  the  Sama  in  1,000,  the  Atharvana  in  9  ; 
and  similarly  the  Vedangas;  grammar  in  8  books,  the  Nirukta  in  14, 
and  so  on,  in  order  that  they  might  be  apprehended  in  a  divided  state ; 
i.e.  that  powerless  and  shortlived  men  might  easily  be  able  to  under- 
stand these  several  S'akhas,  when  divided  and  of  limited  extent,  He 
now  explains  the  word  'Mima.''  ....  £ilma  =  hhilma,  means  the 
division  of  the  Vedas,  and  division  stands  for  separate  arrangement. 
Or  it  means  hhdsanam,  elucidation ;  i.e.  the  sense  of  the  Vedas  becomes 
clear  from  a  knowledge  of  the  vedangas,  or  supplements  to  the  Veda. 
Thus  hilma  is  from  the  root  hhid,  or  the  root  bhds.     In  this  way  this 

w'So  MUUer  (Anc.  Sansk.  Lit.  p.  522)  renders  granthato  arthataioha,  denying 
to  the  word  "  grantha"  the  sense  of  written  iook.  This  rendering  is  approved  by 
Prof,  Goldstuoker  (Panini,  p. 32),  though  he  holds  that  "grantha"  properly  means  a 
written  book  {ibid.  p.  27). 

1"  It  -will  be  seen  that  in  p.  165,  I  have  understood  the  word  glaycmtalt  in  the 
sense  of  "  declining." 


NIGHANTTJS  AMD  NIEUKTA.  169 

Nirukta  S'astra,  and  the  other  Yedangas  have  descended  from  the 
lishis.     Thus  the  scripture  has  heen  elucidated." 

The  Nighantus,  the  lists  of  words  which  form  the  subject  of  the 
preceding  remarks,  were  prefixed  by  Tasta  to  his  own  work,  the 
Nirukta,  in  which,  by  commenting  on  them,  he  endeavours  to  throw 
light  on  the  obscurities  of  the  Veda.™  When  this  work  of  Taska 
was  written,  and  even  at  a  much  earlier  period,  it  is  evident  that  the 
sense  of  many  of  the  Vedic  words  had  been  commonly  forgotten.  This 
appears  from  the  very  fact  of  such  works  as  the  Mghantus  and  Nirukta 
being  composed  at  aU.  Tor  what  occasion  was  there  for  compiling  vo- 
cabularies of  Vedic  words,  if  the  sense  of  these  words  had  continued  all 
along  familiar  to  the  students  of  the  Vedas  ?  The  necessity  for  works 
like  his  own  is  argued  by  Taska  in  the  following  passage  (Nir.  i.  15) : 

Athapi  idam  antarem  mantreah)  artha-pratym/o  na  vidyate  |  a/rtham 
apratiyato  ndiycmtafh  avara-sa'lhshdroddeiah  \  tad  idam  vidyd-sthdnam 
vydharanasya  kartsnyafh  svdrtha-sddhaJcam  eha  | 

"Now  without  this  work  the  meaning  of  the  hymns  cannot  be 
understood;  but  he  who  does  not  comprehend  their  meaning  cannot 
thoroughly  know  their  accentuation  and  grammatical  forms.  There- 
fore, this  department  of  science  is  the  complement  of  grammar,  and 
an  instrument  for  gaining  one's  own  object."  "° 

The  same  thing  is  also  clear  from  many  passages  in  his  work,  in 
which  he  attempts  to  explain  Vedic  words  by  their  etymologies""" 

188  "The  Naighantuta,"  says  Professor  Rotli  (Introd.  to  Nirukta,  p.  lii.),  "especially 
the  second  portion  of  it,  was  a  collection  of  difficult  and  obsolete  words,  which  formed 
a  basis  for  instruction  in  the  mode  of  expounding  the  Veda,  such  as  was  usually 
given  in  the  schools  of  the  Brahmans.  At  that  period  no  need  was  felt  of  con- 
tinuous pommentaries  ;  and  in  fact  learning  had  not  then  become  separated  into  so 
many  branches.  A  memorandum  of  the  terms  denoting  the  ideas  of  most  frequent 
occurrence  in  the  Veda,  and  of  the  principal  passages  which  required  elucidation ;  a 
simple  list  of  the  gods  and  the  objects  of  worship,  such  as  we  find  in  the  Naighahtuka, 
sufficed  as  a  manual  for  oral  instruction.  At  a  later  era  this  manual  hecame  the 
Buhject  of  formal  and  written  explanation.     To  this  period  belongs  the  Nirukta." 

iBO  This  passage  is  translated  by  Roth,  Nirukta,  Erlauterungen,  p.  11.  And 
Sayana  says  in  the  Introd.  to  his  Commentary  on  the  Eigveda,  vol.  i.  p.  39,  tasnidd 
veddrthavabodJmya  v/poAjuhtam  nvruhtam  |  "  Hence  the  Nirukta  is  serviceable  for 
the  understanding  of  the  meaning  of  the  Veda." 

^'o  See  Roth's  Erlauterungen  to  Nirukta,  p.  219,  ff.  "Vedic  interpretation  could 
impose  on  itself  no  greater  ohstruction  than  to  imagine  that  the  Indian  commentators 
were  infallible,  or  that  they  had  inherited  traditions  which  were  of  any  value.  Even 
a  superficial  examination  shows  that  their  plan  of  interpretation  is  the  very  opposite 

VOL.  II.  12 


170  TASKA  AND  HIS  PREDECESSORS. 

(a  process,  often  tentative,  which  would  have  been  unnecessary  if 
their  meanings  had  been  perfectly  known),  or  in  which  he  cites  the 
opinions  of  different  classes  of  interpreters  who  had  preceded  him, 
and  who  had  severally  propounded  different  explanations.  This 
further  shows  that  in  Taska's  time  the  signification  of  the  hymns  had 
formed  the  subject  of  investigation  by  learned  men  of  different  schools 
for  many  ages  preceding.  The  following  passage  will  illustrate  this, 
as  well  as  afford  some  insight  into  the  subjects  and  manner  of  dis- 
cussion at  the  period  when  he  lived.  In  the  Nirukta,  i.  15,  16,  he 
thus  (in  continuation  of  the  passage  last  cited)  alludes  to  the  opinion 
entertained  by  one  of  his  predecessors,  Kautsa,'"'  regarding  the  value 

of  traditional,  that  it  is  in  reality  a  grammatical  and  etymological  one,  which  only 
agrees  mth  the  former  method  in  the  erroneous  system  of  explaining  every  verse, 
every  line,  every  word  by  itself,  without  inquiring  if  the  results  so  obtained  har- 
monize with  those  derived  from  other  quarters.  If  the  fact  that  none  of  the  com- 
mentators are  in  possession  of  anything  more  than  a  very  simple  set  of  conceptions 
regarding,  e.g.,  the  functions  of  a  particular  god,  or  even  the  entire  contents  of  the 
hymns,  which  they  are  continually  intruding  into  their  interpretations,  be  regarded 
as  a  proof  of  their  having  inherited  a  tradition,  it  will  at  least  be  admitted  that  this 
poverty  of  ideas  is  not  a  thing  which  we  have  any  reason  to  covet.  In  this  set  of 
conceptions  are  included  those  scholastic  ideas  which  were  introduced  at  an  early 
period  indeed,  but  not  until  the  hymns  had  already  become  the  subject  of  learned 
study,  and  the  religious  views  and  social  circumstances  on  which  they  are  based 
had  lost  all  living  reality.  .  .  .  What  is  true  of  Sayana,  or  any  of  the  other 
later  commentators,  applies  essentially  to  Taska  also.  He,  too,  is  a  learned  inter- 
preter, who  works  with  the  materials  which  his  predecessors  had  collected,  but  he 
possesses  an  incalculable  advantage,  in  point  of  time,  over  those  compilers  of  detailed 
and  continuous  commentaries,  and  belongs  to  a  quite  different  literary  period ;  viz., 
to  that  when  Sanskrit  was  still  undergoing  a  process  of  natural  growth."  Compai'e 
Benfey's  remarks  on  the  Vedio  scholiasts,  in  the  Introduction  to  his  Samaveda, 
pp.  kv,  f,,  where  he  observes :  "  How  high  soever  may  be  the  antiquity  assigned 
to  the  oldest  grammatical  and  hermeneutical  treatises  on  the  Vedas,  a  loqg  period 
appears  to  have  intervened  between  these  and  the  composition  of  the  greater 
portion  of  the  hymns,  during  which  very  much  that  was  peculiar  to  the  Vedas  waa 
forgotten.  Their  interpretations  rest  essentially  (as  is  shown  not  merely  by  the 
copimentaries  which  have  been  alluded  to,  but  also  by  Taska's  Nirukta)  on  ety- 
mology, on  conclusions  drawn  firom  the  context,  and  the  comparison  of  similar 
passages.  The  oldest  attempts  at  interpretation  seem  to  be  contained  in  Brahmanas, 
in  collections  of  passages  {nigama),  in  collections  of  words  [nighantit^  and  in  expla- 
nations (nirukta),  of  which  last,  two  are  mentioned  by  Sayana  (R.V.  vol.  i.  p.  45, 
lines  16  and  18),  viz.,  one  by  S'akapiini  and  another  by  Sthaulashthlvi,  in  addition 
to  that  of  Yaska." 

*<"  See  Eoth,  Zur  Litteratur  und  Greschichte  des  Weda,  p.  21,  f.  where  he  writes  : 
"The  rationalistic  Kautsa  could  regard  the  Veda  as  devoid  of  meaning,  and  the 
Brahmanas  as  false  interpretations." 


ZAUTSA  DECLARES  THE  NIRUKTA  USELESS.  171 

of  the  Vedio  interpretation : 

"  YaM  mcmtrarthei-pratyayaya  anarthahtm  IhavaU"  iti  Kautml}  \ 
"  anarthahah  hi  mantrah  \  tad  etena  upehMtam/am  \  niyata-vaeho  yuMayo 
myatanupurvyah  hhavcmti  f  athdpi  hr&hmanena  rupa-samparmah  vidM- 
yante  \  '  wru  prathama '  iti  prathayati  \  'prohani '  Hi'  prohati  \  athdpi 
anupapanndrthah  hhmanti  \  '  oshadhe  trdyasva  enam '  |  '  svadMte  md 
enam  Mmsir'  [Taitt.  S.,  i.  2,  1]  ity  aha  himsan  \  athdpi  pratishid- 
dhdrthah  hha/vanti  \  'ekah  eva  Rudro  'vatasthe  na  doitlyah'  |  'asamihyd- 
td  sahasrdni  ye  Rudrdh  adhi  hhumydm '  |  '  asatrur  Indra  jajnishe '  \ 
'  iatam  sendh  cy'ayat  sdlcam  Indrah '  |  iti  \  athdpi  jdnantam  sampreshyati 
'Aynaye  samidhyamdndya  anuhruhi '  iti  |  athdpy  aha  '  Aditih  sarvam ' 
iti  '  Aditir  dyaur  Aditir  antarihham '  Hi  "  |  tad  iiparishthdd  vydhhyd- 
sydmah  \  ^'athdpy  a/oiapashthdrthdh  hhavanti  |  'amy ale'  \  'yddriimin'  \ 
'jdrayayi'  \  'kdnuM'  iti"  \  arthavantah  iabda-sdmdnydt\  ^' etad  vai 
yajnasya  samriddham  yad  rupa-samriddham  yat  harma  hriyamdnam  rig 
ycywr  vd  'bhivadati"  (Aitareya  Brahmana,  i.  4)  iti  cha  hrdhmamm  \ 
"hnlantau  putrair  naptribhir  "  iti  \  yatho  etad  "  niyatavdoho  yuhtayo 
niyatamtpurvydh  hhavanti"  iti  laukikeshv  apy  etad  yathd  '^ Indrdgnl" 
" pitdputrdv"  iti  \  yatho  etad  "brdhmanena  rupa-sampannah  vidhiyante" 
ity  uditdnmddah  sa  bhavaii\  yatho  etaj  " amipapanndrthdh  hhoDanti" 
ity  dmndya/oachandd  ahdmsd  pratiyeta  \  yatho  etad  "  vipratishiddhdrthdh 
hhavanti"  iti\  laukikeshv  apy  etad  yathd  " asapatno  'yam  brdhmanah" 
" anamitro  'yam  rdjd"  iti  \  yatho  etaj  ^^ jdnantam  sampreshyati"  iti 
jdnantam  ahhivddayafe  jdnate  madhuparkam  prdha  iti  \  yatho  etad 
"Aditih  sarvam"  iti  laukikeshv  apy  etad  yatlid  "  sarvarasdh  anuprdptdh 
pdnlyam"  iti  \  yatho  etad  " avispashtharthdh  hhavanti"  iti  \  na  esha 
sthdnoTi  aparddho  yad  enam  andho  na  pasyati  purushdpa/rddhah  sa 
hhavati\  yathd  jdnapadlshu  vidydtah purusha-visesho  bhavati\  pdrovarya- 
vitsu  tu  khalu  veditrishu  bhuyo-vidyah  prasasto  hhavati  \ 

I  ■will,  in  my  translation,  place  the  answers  of  Taska  opposite  to 
the  objections  of  Kautsa  (though  they  are  separated  in  the  text),  and 
thus  economize  space,  as  well  as  make  the  discussion  clearer.'""' 

'"'  See  Dr.  Rotli's  translation  of  this  passage  in  the  first  of  his  Abhandlungeu, 
p.  21,  and  in  his  Erlauterungen  to  the  Nirukta,  pp.  11-13.  There  are,  however, 
some  parts  of  the  passage  of  which  I  do  not  clearly  understand  the  bearing. 


172 


TASKA'S  :^EPLIES  TO  KAUTSA'8  OBJJlOTIOIfS. 


Kautsa  objects. 

1.  "If  the  science  of  inter- 
pretation is  intended  to  make  the 
sense  of  the  mantras  clear,  it  is 
useless,  for  the  mamtras  have  no 
sense.  This  is  to  be  seen  as 
follows." 


2.  "The  propositions  [in  the 
hymns  and  texts]  have  certain 
fixed  words,  and  a  certain  fixed 
arrangement ; "  [and  so  require 
no  interpretation  T\ 

3.  "  The  mantras  have  the 
ritual  forms  to  which  they  refer 
fixed  and  enjoined  by  the  Brah- 
manas  [and,  therefore,  need  no 
further  explanation] :  thus  '  Spread 
thyself  widely  out,'  [Vaj,  S.,  i. 
22]  and  so  he  spreads ;  '  Let  me 
pour  out,'  and  so  he  pours." 

4.  "  They  prescribe  what  is  im- 
practicable :  thus,  '  deliver  him, 
0  plant;'  'Axe,  do  not  injure 
him,'  thus  he  speaks  while  strik- 
ing." [Taitt.  Sanh.,  i.  2,  1 ;  see 
also  Vaj,  S.,  iv.  1 ;  vi.  15.] 

5.  "  Their  contents  are  at  vari- 
ance with  each  other:  thus,  'There 
exists  but  one  Eudra,  and  no 
second  ; '  and  again,  '  There  are 
innumerable  thousands  of  Kudras 
over  the  earth'  [Yaj.  S.,  xvi.  54]  ; 
and,  'Indra,  thou  bast  been  born 
without  a  foe'  [E.  Y.,  x.  133,  2]  ; 
and  again,  'Indra  vanquished  a 
hundred  armies  at  once.' "  [E.  V., 
X.  103,  1.] 


'13  Xhis  version  is  borrowed  from  Prof:  Hang's  translation,  p.  11.    The  words 
quoted  in  the  Nirukta  occur  in  Ait.  Br.  i.  4,  with  the  exception  of  '^yajw  va." 


Yaahn  replies. 

1.  "The  mantras  have  a  sense, 
for  their  words  are  the  same  (as 
those  in  the  ordinary  language).  A 
Brahmana  (the  Aitareya,  i.  4)  says, 
'  What  is  appropriate  in  its  form, 
is  successful  in  the  sacrifice ;  that 
is  to  say,  when  the  verse  Ifich  or 
ycy'usK]  which  is  recited  refers  to 
the  ceremony  which  is  being  per- 
formed.'""^ An  example  of  the 
identity  of  the  Vedic  language 
with  the  ordinary  speech  is  this, 
'  krilantau,'  etc.  ('  sporting  with 
sons  and  grandsons')." 

2.  "  This  is  the  case  in  ordinary 
language  also,  e.g.  Indragni,  pitd- 
putrau  ('Indra  and  Agni,'  father 
and  son')." 

3.  "  This  is  a  mere  repetition 
of  what  had  been  already  said 
[and  consequently  calls  for  no 
further  answer  ?]." 


4.  "According  to  the  sacred 
tradition  it  must  be  understood 
that  no  injury  is  to  be  inflicted." 


5.  "  The  same  thing  occurs  in 
ordinary  language :  thus,  '  This 
Brahman  is  without  a  rival ; ' 
'  The  king  has  no  enemies.' " 


DUEGA'S  EXPLANATION  OF  THE  PASSAGE.  173 

6.  "A  person  Is  enjoined  to  do  6.  ''In  the  same  way  people 
an  act  with  which  he  is  already  are  saluted  by  their  names,  though 
acquainted  :  thus,  '  Address  the  they  already  know  them ;  and  the 
hymn  to  the  fijre  which  is  being  tnadhuparka  (a  dish  of  curds,  ghee 
kindled '  [S'atap.  Br.,  i.  3,  5,  2.  and  honey)  is  mentioned  to  those 
This  is  said  by  the  adhvaryu  who  are  well  acquainted  with  the 
priest  to  the  hotri.     Eoth.]'""'^  custom." 

7.  "  Again  it  is  said :  'Aditiis  7.  "This  will  be  explained 
everything;'  'Aditi  is  the  sky;  further  on  [see  Nir.,  iv.  23]. 
Aditi  is  the  atmosphere.' "  [E.  V.,  The  same  thing  is  said  in  common 
i.  89,  10].  language :   thus,    '  All  fluids   (o^ 

flavours)  reside  in  water. '"^* 

8.  "The  signification  of  the  8.  "It  is  not  the  fault  of  the 
mantras  is  indistinct,  as  in  the  post,  that  the  blind  man  does  not 
case   of    such    words    as    amyak      see  it.    It  is  the  man's  fault.    Just 

ER.  Y.,  i.  169,  3],  yddrUmin  as  in  respect  of  local  usages  men 
E.  v.,  V.  44,  8],  jarayayij^.  V.,  are  distinguished  by  superior 
vi.  12,  4],  kanuha."  [E.  V.,  viii.  knowledge;  so  too,  among  those 
66,  4].'°°  learned  men  who  are   skilled  in 

tradition,  he  who  knows  most  is 
worthy  Of  approbation." 

Dui'ga,  the  commentator,  does  not  enter  on  a  detailed  explanation 
of  this  passage.     He  merely  refers  as  follows  to  its  general  scope  : — 

Athapi  idam  amtarena  pada-vibhago  na  vidyate  \  iastrarambha-prayo- 
janadhikdre  narttamdne  atha  iddm  antarem  mantr'esfw  artMvadMramm 
ndsti  iiy  uMe  yadi  maniretyddind  dnarthakya-hetubhzr  hahubkir  dna- 
rthakye  updpddite  nwukta-idstrasya  KauUena  mantrdndm  arfhavaUam, 
sthdpayitvd  para-paksha-hetcwah  pratyuktd^  |  teshu  stMtam  arthavatvam 
mantrdndm  \  tesham  ci/rt%anirvaehmdy<t  idam  drabhyamanam  arthavad 
ity  upapannam  arthwDattvam  nir'Ukia-idstrasya  \  tad  etat  sarvam  api 
ehodaka-sdstraMra-vydjena  prmaktdnuprdsaktam  ukfam  prajnaydh,  vivrid- 
djiccye  iishydsyd  \  kathaih  Hdma  aadv  avwriddka-pra^'nah  iabdartha-nydya- 
sankatesihu  fietu-samaydnabhif'nah  paraih  pfdtibadhyamam  'pi  pdddrthdn 
vdkydrtham§  elm  dsdmmohena  nvrbruydd  iti. 

"The  student  being  supposed  to  have  an  occasion  and  a  right  to 

'""•  See  Miiller,  History  of  Ancient  Sanskrit  Literature,  p.  472,  note  1. 

205  Compare  Eaghuvans'a,  x.  16,  rasamtar'any  ekarasam  yatha  dwyam  pwyo  'snute\ 
"  As  rain  water,  which  has  but  one  flaTour,  [when  it  has  fallen]  imbibes  other 
flavours,"  etc. 

206  sge  my  article  to  the  interpretaitlon  of  the  Veda  in  the  Journal  of  the  Roy.  As-. 
Society,  vol.  ii.  new  series,  p.  329,  334,  337 ;  and  BohtUngk  and  Both,  s.  vv. 
myaksh,  yadr:iiet,  {S)jar,  emd  kanuha;  as  well  as  Edth's  dissertation  on  the  Atharva- 
veda,  p.  21. 


174     .     REFERENCES  IN  THE  NIEUKTA 

enter  on  the  study  of  this  S'astra,  and  the  proposition  having  been  laid 
down  that,  -without  the  Nirukta,  the  sense  of  the  mantras  cannot  be 
understood,  Kautsa,  in  the  words,  "if  the  science,"  etc.,  adduces  many- 
reasons  for  declaring  the  mantras  to  have  no  meaning,  and  on  these 
he  grounds  an  assertion  that  the  Nirnkta  is  useless.  Tasta  in  reply 
states  the  reasons  on  the  other  side  in  support  of  the  mantras  having 
a  meaning,  which  point  he  accordingly  establishes.  And  as  this  work 
(the  Nirukta),  which  is  being  commenced,  is  useful  for  the  explanation 
of  their  meaning,  its  utility  is  demonstrated.  Thus,  under  the  guise 
of  an  objector''"'  [who  is  answered  by]  the  author  of  the  treatise,  an 
opportunity  is  taken  of  stating  the  arguments  on  both  sides,  with  the 
view  of  increasing  tte  student's  intelligence.  For  how  is  that  student, 
of  immature  understanding,  ignorant  too  of  reasons  and  conclusions, 
when  he  encounters  difficulties  connected  -with  the  proper  explication 
of  words,  and  is  even  hindered  by  other  persons,  to  explain  without 
perplexity  the  meaning  of  words  and  sentences?" 

It  -would  seem  from  this  that  Durgaoharya  looked  upon  Kautsa  as 
being  merely  a  man  of  stra-w,  into  whose  mouth  objections  against  the 
significance  of  the  Vedas  were  put  by  Taska,  in  order  that  he  might 
himself  refute  them.  It  does  not,  however,  appear  why  Kautsa, 
whose  name  appears  in  the  old  genealogical  lists  of  teachers  in  one 
of  the  Brabmanas  (Miiller,  Ancient  Sansk.  Lit.,  pp.  181,  442),  should 
be  viewed  in  the  light  of  a  fictitious  "Devadatta,"  any  more  than  any 
other  of  the  numerous  earlier  writers  referred  to  in  the  Nirukta. 
There  seems  to  be  no  other  reason  than  this,  that  Durga  did  not, 
perhaps,  wish  his  contemporaries  to  believe  that  there  had  been  in 
early  times  any  old  grammarian  who  either  rejected  the  authority  of 
the  Vedas,  or  differed  from  the  customary  methods  of  treating  and  in- 
terpreting them. 

In  Nirukta  ii.  16,  Taska  refers  to  the  opinions  of  various  former 
schools  regarding  the  meaning  of  the  word  Vritra : — 

Tat  ko  Vrittrah  \  " meghah"  iti  nairuktah  \  "  Te&shtro' surah"  ity 
aitihasikah  \  apa/m  cha  jyotishah  eha  miiribhdva-lcarmano  varsha-karma 
jdyate  |  iatra  upamarthena  yuddka-varnah  hhavanti  \  ahi-vat  tu  hhahi 

21"-  I  am  indebted  to  the  late  Dr.  Ballantyne  and  Professor  Cowell  for  a  correction 
of  the  sense  I  formerly  assigned  to  the  -word  cMdalta. 


TO  YASKA'S  PEEDECESSORS.  175 

mantra-varnah   hr&hmam-vadai  eha  \  vivriddhya    imrlrasya    srotamsi 
nivaraydnchaleara  \  tasmin  hate  prasasyandire  apah  | 

"  Wlio  was  Vritra  ?  '  A  cloud,'  says  the  Nairuktas  (etymologists) : 
'  an  Asura,  son  of  Tvashtri,'  say  the  Aitihasikas  (story-tellers).  The 
fall  of  rain  arises  from  the  mingling  of  the  -waters  and  of  light.  This 
is  figuratively  depicted  as  a  conflict.  The  hymns  and  Brahmanas  de- 
Bcrihe  Vritra  as  a  serpent.  By  the  expansion  of  his  body,  he  blocked 
up  the  streams.     When  he  was  destroyed,  the  waters  flowed  forth." 

In  Nir.  iii.  8,  he  alludes  to  the  views  of  older  writers  regarding 
the  Vedic  word panohajana: — "Panchcy'anah  mama  hotramjwshadhvam"  \ 
(K.Y.,  X.  53,  4).  "  Gandharvdh  pitaro  devdh  asti/rah  ralcshamsi"  ity  eke  \ 
"chatvdro  varndh  nishddah panchamah"  ity  Aupamanyavah]  "  'Te  five 
classes  of  beings,  frequent  my  sacrifice.'  These  five  classes  of  beings 
are  the  'Gandharvas,  Pitris,  Devas,  Asuras,  and  Eakshases,'  say  some: 
They  are  '  the  four  castes  with  the  Nishadas  for  a  fifth,'  says  Aupa- 
manyava." 

In  Mr.  viii.  21,  f.,  Yaska  thus  speculates  on  the  feelings  which  had 
led  some  of  his  predecessors  to  regard  the  introductory  and  concluding 
portions  of  the  ritual  of  sacrifice,  styled  praydj'a  and  anuydja,  as  ad- 
dressed to  other  deities  than  Agni : — 

"Atha  him-devatdh  prayajdniiydjdh,  \  dgneydh"  ity  eke\  .  .  "Agneydh 
vaipraydjdh,  dgneydh  anuydjah"  iti cha  brdhmanam  \  " chhando-devatdh" 
ity  aparam  |  "  chhanddmsi  vai.praydjdi  chhanddmsy  anuydjah"  iti  cha 
brdhmanam  \  "  ritu-devatdh"  ity  aparam  \  "  ritavo  vai  praydjdh  ritcmo 
^nuydjdh  "  iti  cha  Irdhmanam  \  " paiu-devatdh  "  ity  aparam  \  " paiavo 
vai  praydjdh  paiamo  'nvydjdh"  iti  cha  Irdhmanam  \  "prdna-devatdh" 
ity  aparam  \  "prdndh  vai  praydjdh  prdndh  vai  anuydjdh "  iU  cha 
hrahmanam  \  " atma-devatdh"  ity  aparam  |  " dtmd  vai  praydjdh  atma 
vai  anuydjdh "  iti  cha  Irdhmanam  \  dgneydh  iti  tu  sthitih  \  hhakti- 
matram  itarat  \  kimartham  punar  iti  \  uchyate  )  yasyai  devatdyai  havi/r 
grihitam  sydt  tdm  manasd  dhydyed  vashatkarishyann  iti  ha  vijndyate  | 

"Now,  who  is  the  god  to  whom  the  praydjas  and  the  anuydjas 
(introductory  and  concluding  sacrificial  acts)  are  addressed?  'Agni,' 
say  some.  For  a  Brahmana  says,  '  the  praydjas  and  anuydjas  belong 
to  Agni.'  Another  opinion  is  that  they  have  chhandas  (metre)  for 
their  deity.  For  a  Brahmana  says,  '  the  praydjas  and  anuydjas  are 
metres.'    A  third  view  ia  that  they  have  the  seasons  for  their  deities. 


176  TASKA'S  PEEDEOESSOES. 

For  a  Brahmana  says,  '^Bprayajas  and  muyajas  are  seasons.'  A  fourth 
vie-w  is  that  they  have  sacrificial  victims  for  their  deities.  For  a 
Brahmana  says,  '  the prayajas  and  anuyajas  are  victims?'  A  fifth  view 
is  that  they  have  the  vital  airs  for  their  deities.  For  a  Brahmana  says, 
'  the  praydjas  and  anuyajas  are  the  vital  airs.'  A  sixth  view  is  that 
they  have  soul  for  their  deity.  For  a  Brahmana  says,  'Vasprayajaa  and 
anuyajas  are  soul.'  I  maintain  the  opinion  that  the  hymns  have 
Agni  for  their  deity.  The  other  views  arise  from  mere  devotion  [to 
particular  gods].  But  why  are  these  various  views  put  forward? 
Because  it  is  well  known  to  be  a  precept  that  the  person  who  is 
about  to  offer  an  oblation  should  meditate  on  the  particular  deity 
for  whom  it  is  intended." 

In  Nirukta  xii.  1,  he  states  the  different  views  which  had  been  put 
forward  regarding  the  gods  called  A^vins : — Aivair  a^vindv  ity  Aiu-na- 
vabhah  \  tat  hdv  aivinau  \  " dydva-prithivydv  "  ity  elce  \  " ahoratrdv" 
ity  eke  \  "  surya-chandramasdv  "  ity  eh  \  "  rdjdnau  punyahritav"  ity 
aitihdsikdh  \  "  '  The  A^vins  are  so  called  from  their  horses  (akais),' 
says  Aurnavabha.  But  who  are  the  A^vins?  'Heaven  and  earth,' 
say  some;  'day  and  night,'  say  others:  while  others  again  say,  'the 
sun  and  moon.'     'They  were  virtuous  kings,'  say  the  Aitihasikas."  ^ 

In  Mrukta  xii.  19,  he  states  the  various  expositions  given  of  a 
passage  regarding  Vishnu  : —  Yad  idafh  kincha  tad  viohakrame  Vishnuh  \ 
tridhd  nidhatte  padam  tredhdhhdvdya  prithivySm  antarikshe  di/oi  iti 

'"8  See  Eoti's  Erlaut.  pp.  220-221,  for  some  remarks  on  these  old  interpreters 
of  tlie  Veda.  "  Older  expounders  of  the  Vedas  in  general  are,"  he  says,  "  called  by 
Taska  simply  Nairuktas ;  and  when  he  notices  any  difference  in  the  conception  of  the 
Vedio  gods,  those  interpreters  who  take  the  euhemeristic  view  are  called  Aitihasikas. 
In  addition  to  the  exposition  of  the  Veda  in  the  stricter  sense,  there  existed  also 
liturgical  interpretations  of  numerous  passages,  such  as  we  find  in  the  Brahmana^ 
and  other  kindred  treatises,  in  which  it  was  attempted  to  bring  the  letter  of  the 
received  text  into  harmony  with  the  existing  ceremonial.  Such  liturgical  interpre- 
tations are  called  by  YS^ka  those  of  the  Yajnikas,  or  '  persons  skilled  in  sacrificial 
rites.'  Akin  to  theirs  appears  to  have  been  the  mode  of  interpretation  adopted  by 
the  Naidanas.  .  .  .  Under  this  head  we  must  probably  understand  that  method 
of  explanation  which,  differing  from  the  grammatical  etymologies,  referred  the 
origin  Of  the  words  and  conceptiona  to  occasions  which  were  in  a  certain  sense 
historical.  The  Brahmanas  and  Upanishads  abound  in  such  historical  or  mytho- 
logical etymologies,  which  are  to  be  found  in  all  ages  and  among  all  nations ; 
etymologies  which  their  own  inventors  do  not  regard  as  serious,  but  which,  from 
their  connexion  with  other  ideas,  obtain  a  certain  importance  in  the  religious  system." 


RtTLE  FOR  INTEEPEETING  THE  HYMNS.  177 

S'dkapUmh  \  samarohane  vishwwpade  gayaiirasi  ity  Awrnavalhah  \ 
"Vishnu  strode  ovw  all  this  tmiverse :  thrice  he  plants  his  foot.  This 
he  does  in  order  to  his  threefold  existence,  '  on  earth,  in  the  atmo- 
sphere, and  in  the  sky,'  says  S'akapuni  :  '  At  his  rising,  in  the  zenith, 
and  at  his  setting,'  says  Aurnavabha." 

In  Mr.  xii.  41,  we  have  another  reference  to  the  Brahmanas: — 
Agnina  Agnim  ayajanta  devah  \  ' '  Agnih  paiw  asit  |  tarn  alabhanta 
tena  aycy'anta"  iti  cha  brahmanam\  "The  gods  sacrificed  Agni  (fire), 
with  fire.  '  Agni  was  the  victim ;  him  they  immolated,  with  him 
they  sacrificed ;'  so  says  a  Brahmana." 

"We  thus  see  that  in  various  passages  of  his  work  Taska  refers  also  to 
the  Brahmanas ;  they  must  therefore  have  been  older  than  his  time. 

The  following  is  a  list  of  the  writers  whom  Taska  quotes  as  having 
preceded  him  in  the  interpretation  of  the  Vedas  : — Agrayana,  Audum- 
barayana,  Aurnavabha,  Katthakya,  Kautsa,  Kraushtuki,  Gargya, 
Galava,  Charmasiras,  Taitiki,  Varshyayani,  S'atabalaksha  the  MaUd- 
galya,  Sakatayana,  S'akapuni,  S'akalya,  and  Sthaulashthivi.""' 

The  subjoined  passage  from  the  twelfth  section  of  the  first  Pari^ishta 
or  supplement  to  the  Nirukta  (considered  by  Professor  Eoth,  Mr.  ii. 
p.  208,  to  be  the  work  of  some  author  subsequent  to  Taska),  relating 
to  the  antiquity  of  the  Mantras,  and  the  qualifications  necessary  for 
expounding  them,  is  of  considerable  interest  :■— 

Ayam  tncmtrartha-ehintabhyuho  abhyudho  'pi  srutito  'pi  tarkatah  \  na 
tu  prithahtvena  mantrdh  ninaktavyah  praJcarana^a^  eva  mrvaktavydh  \ 
na  ky  eshu  pratyaksham  asty  anriaher  atapaso  va  \  " parovarya-vitsu  tu 
kJialu  veditrishu  Ihuyo-vidyah  prasasyo  hhavati,"  ity  uktam  purastdt  | 
manushydh  vat  rishishu  utkrdmatsu  devdn  ahruvan  "ko  nah  risMr  hha- 
vishyati,"  iti  \  tehhyah  etam  tarkam  rishim  prdyacJihct/n,  mwrdrdrtha- 
ehintdlJiyuham.  abhyudham  \  tasmdd  yad  eva  kincha  anuchdno  'bhyuhaty 
drsham  tad  hhavati  \ 

"  This  reflective  deduction  of  the  sense  of  the  hymns  is  effected  by 
the  help  of  sacred  tradition  and  reasoning.  The  texts  are  not  to  be 
interpreted  as  isolated,  but  according  to  their  contest.  For  a  person 
who  is  not  a  rishi  or  a  devotee  has  no  intuitive  insight""  into  their 

'0^  Eoth,  Erlauter.,  pp.  221,  222. 

'">  See  the  passage  above  quoted  (p.  165)  from  Nirukta  i.  20 ;  and  the  third 
volume  of  this  work,  ppj  125,  ff.,  183. 


178  BHASKAEA  ON  SCEIPTUEE  AND  SCIENCE. 

meaning.  We  iave  said  before  that  'among  those  men  who  are 
versed  in  tradition,  he  who  is  most  learned  desffrres  especial  com- 
mendation.' When  the  rishis  were  ascending  [from  the  earth],  men 
inquired  of  the  gods,  '  Who  shall  be  our  rishi  ?  '  The  gods  gave  them 
for  a  rishi  this  science  of  reasoning,  this  art  of  deducing  by  reflec- 
tion the  sense  of  the  hymns.  Therefore,  whatever  meaning  any 
learned  man  deduces  by  reasoning,  that  possesses  authority  equal  to 
a  rishi's.'' 

Here  there  is  to  be  remarked  a  recognition  of  the  necessity  of  reason 
as  a  co-factor,  in  the  ascertainment  of  religious  truth,  or  the  definition 
of  ceremonial  practice.  With  this  may  be  compared  the  whole  ten- 
dency of  the  Sankhya  doctrine,  which  is  virtually,  if  not  avowedly, 
founded  on  reasoning;  and  the  assertion  of  Bhaskara  (see  above, 
p.  161,  note  182),  that  in  the  mathematical  sciences,  scripture,  if  un- 
supported by  demonstration,  is  of  no  authority. 

The  same  confidence  in  the  inherent  force  of  the  human  intellect  is 
exhibited  by  Bhaskara  in  another  place,  in  these  memorable  words : — 
Yada  punar  mahata  hdlena  mahad  antaram  Iha/eishyati  tada  matimanto 
Brahmag'wptadindih,  aamana-dharmimh  eva  utpaUyante  \  ye  tad-v^a- 
Idbdhy-anusarinim  gatim  ururikritya  iastrdni  vyakarishyanti  \  atah  eva 
ganita-shmdho  mahamatimadhMr  dhritah  sann  anady-anante  'pi  kale 
khilatvam  na  yaU\  "When,  again,  after  a  long  period,  there  shall 
be  a  great  distance  [observable  in  the  position  of  the  stars],  then  in- 
telligent men  of  like  character  with  Brahmagupta  and  other  mathe- 
maticians wUl  arise,  who,  admitting  a  movement  in  consonance  with 
observation,  will  compose  treatises  accordingly.  Hence  the  science  of 
astronomy,  being  maintained  by  men  of  great  ability,  shaU.  never  fail 
in  time,  though  it  has  no  beginning  nor  end."  See  Colebrooke's  Misc. 
Essays,  ii.  381. 

In  the  first  volume  of  this  work  some  passages  have  been  already 
adduced  from  Taska  regarding  the  origin  of  particular  Vedic  hymns 
of  which  he  explains  verses.  One  of  these  texts  relates  to  the  Eishi  Vis- 
vamitra,  and  another  to  the  Eishi  Devapi.  See  vol.  i.,  pp.  269,  and  338. 
Third : — I  now  proceed  to  the  Brahmanas,  to  which  we  have  been 
led  back  through  the  ascending  series  of  more  recent  works,  as  the 
oldest  expository  writings  on  the  Vedic  hymns.  They  are  conse- 
quently later  than  the  hymns,  the  most  ancient .  portion  of  Indian 


BEAHMANAS,  SUTRAS,  AND  SMRITIS.  179 

literature.  But  while  the  other  explanatory  and  prescriptive  books 
connected  with  the  Vedas,  such  as  the  grammatical  and  ceremonial 
Sutras,  etc.,  are  not  regarded  as  having  any  independent  divine 
authority,  the  Brahmanas,  on  the  contrary,  are  considered  as  a  part  of 
the  Teda  itself.  This  will  appear  from  the  followiug  passages  from 
Sayana's  commentary  on  the  Eigveda:  Mantra-hrahmanatmakam 
tdvad  adusktam  lakshanam  \  afah  eva  Apastambo  yw/na-paribhashayam 
eva  aha  "  mantra-hrdhmanayor  veda-namadheyam, "  iti  \  ^"  "  The  defini- 
tion of  the  Veda,  as  consisting  of  Mantra  and  Brahmana,  is  unobjec- 
tionable. Hence  Apastamba  says,  in  the  Tajna  paribhasha,  '  Veda  is 
the  name  applied  to  Mantra  and  Brahmana.'  "  Again :  Mantra-brdh- 
mana-rupau  dvav  eva  veda-bhdgdv  ity  dnglltdrdd  mantra-lahhamsya 
punam  abhihitatvdd  axaiishto  veda-bhdgo  brdhmanam  ity  etal  lakshanam 
bhavishyati  \  "'*  "  It  being  admitted  that  there  are  two  parts  of  the 
Veda,  viz.,  Mantra  and  Brahmana,  as  the  Mantra  has  been  already 
defined,  the  definition  of  Brahmana  will  be,  that  it  is  the  remaining 
portion  of  the  Veda." 

In  regard  to  the  Sutras  and  Smritis,  the  author  of  the  Ifyayamala- 
vistara  says,  i.  3,  24  : — 

Baudhdya/ndpastambdivaldyana-lcdtydyanddi-ndmdnkUdh  fcalpa-sutrd- 
digranthah  mgama-nirukta-shadanga-granthdh  Mamo-ddi-smritayai  cha 
apav/rmheydh  dha/rma-luddhi-janakatvdd  veda-vat  \  na  cha  mula-pramdna- 
sdpekshatvena  veda-vaishamyam  iti  sankanlyam  \  utpanndydh  buddheh 
svatah  prdmdnydngikdrena  nirapehhatvdt  \  md  evam  \  uktdnumdnasya 
kdlatyaydpadishtatvdt  \  Baudhdyana-sutram  Apastamba-sutram  ity  evam 
purusha-ndmnd  te  granthdh  uchyante  \  na  cha  Kdthakddi-mmdkhyd-vat 
pravachana-nimittatvam  yuhtam  tad-grantha-nirmdna-kdle  taddmntanaih 
haikhid  upalabdhaPodt  \  taeh  cha  a/viehhirma-pdrampwryena  anuvarttate  \ 
tatah  Kdliddsddi-grantha-vat  pawrusheydh  \  tathapi  veda-mulatvdt  pra- 
mdnam  |  .  .  .  .  maivam  \  kalpasya  vedatva^i,  na  adydpi  siddham  |  kintu 
prayatnena  sddhaniyam  \  na  cha  tai  sddhayitwm,  kakyam,  pawusheyat- 
vasya  samdhhyayd  tat-kwrtur  vpalambhena  cha  sadhitatvdt  \ 

"  Some  persons  have  asserted  that  the  Kalpa-sutras  and  other  works 
designated  by  the  names  of  Baudhayana,  Apastamba,  A^valayana, 
Katyayana,  etc.,  and  the  Nigama,  Mrukta,  and  six  Vedangas,  together 

'1'  Eigveda,  Miiller's  edition,  vol.  i.  p.  4. 
'"  Eigveda,  Miiller's  edition,  vol.  i.  p.  22. 


180  QUOTATION  FEOM  PROFESSOR  ROTH 

with  the  Smritis  of  Manu  aad  others,  are  Superhuman,  because  they 
impart  to  men  a  comprehension  of  duty,  like  the  Vedas ;  and  that  they 
are  not  to  be  suspected  of  dissimilarity  to  the  Vedas,  from  the  fact  of 
their  appealing  to  the  authority  of  the  original  text ;  for  the  know- 
ledge of  duty  which  they  impart  is  independent,  because  it  is  admitted 
to  be  self-evidencing.  But  this  view  is  incorrect ;  for  the  inference 
in  question  proceeds  upon  an  erroneous  generalization."'*  These  works 
are  called  by  the  names  of  men ;  as,  '  the  Sutras  of  Baudhayana,'  '  the 
Sutras  of  Apastamba,'  etc. ;  and  these  designations  cannot  properly  be 
derived  from  the  fact  that  these  works  were  studied  by  those  Whose 
names  they  bear,  as  is  actually  the  case  in  regard  to  the  Eathaka  and 
other  parts  of  the  Veda ;  for  it  was  known  to  some  of  their  contem- 
poraries at  the  time  of  the  composition  of  these  Sutras  and  Smritis, 
etc.,  that  they  were  ■  then  being  composed :  and  this  knowledge  has 
come  down  by  unbroken  tradition.  Hence,  like  the  Works  of  Kalidasa 
and  others,  the  books  in  question  are  of  human  origin.  Nevertheless, 
from  being  founded  on  the  Veda,  they  are  authoritative."  .  .  . 
And  again :  "  It  is  not  yet  proved  that  the  Kalpa-sutras  are  part  of 
the  Veda  ;  and  it  would  require  great  labour  to  prove  it ;  and,  in  fact, 
it  is  impossible  to  prove  it.  For  the  human  origin  of  this  book  is 
established  by  its  name,  and  by  its  being  observed  to  have  had  an 
author." "" 

The  Brahinanas,  however,  as  I  have  said,  notwithstanding  their 
antiquity,  and  the  authority  which  is  ascribed  to  them  as  a  con- 
stituent part  of  the  Veda,  are  far  from  being  so  old  as  the  hymns. 
On  the  subject  of  these  works  Professor  Eoth  makes  some  remarks  in 
his  Introduction  to  the  Nirflkta,  p.  xxiv.  ff. ;  which  I  translate  with 
some  abridgments.^'* 

"  The  difference  in  contents  between  the  Brahmagas  and  the  Kalpa- 
books,  if  judged  according  to  detached  passages,  might  appear  to  be 
very  smaE  and  indeterminate,  though  even  at  first  sight  it  is  unde- 
niable that  the  two  classes  of  writings  are  easily  distinguishable  as 
regards  their  position  and  estimation  in  the  whole  body  of  religious 

"»  See  the  third  volume  af  this  work,  pp.  84,  note  89,  179,  f.,  290,  and  312. 

'"  On.  the  difference  in  authority  between  the  Brahmanas  and  the  Sutras,  etc., 
see  Muller's  "Ancient  Sanskrit  Literature,"  pp.  75-107. 

216  J  refer  for  further  informaltion  to  Prof.  Muller's  section  on  the  Brahmanas  in  his 
"  Ancient  Sanskrit  Literature,."  particlilarly  to  pp.  342,  ff.,  389,  428,  429,  431-435. 


ON  THE  CHAEACTEB  OF  THE  BBAHMANAS.  181 

literature.  Jn  fact,  the  difference  between  tjiem  is  most  essential. 
Though  both  treat  of  divine  worship  in  its  widest  extent,  yet  in  the 
Brahmana  it  is  the  subject  of  description  in  quite  a  different  sense 
from  what  it  is  in  the  Kalpa-^astra.  The  object  of  the  latter  is  to 
represent  the  whole  course  of  the  sacred  rites  which  have  a  place  in 
any  particular  department  of  worship,  e.g.  it  defines  exactly  which  of 
the  priests  present  at  a  ceremony  has  to  perform  a  part  at  each  point 
of  the  sacred  rite.  This  is  a  very  essential  matter  in  Indian  sacri- 
fices. ...  It  is  further  prescribed  in  these  works  what  hymns  and 
invocations  are  to  be  uttered,  and  hqw.  As  a  rule,  however,  the 
strophes  are  indicated  only  by  the  initial  words,  and  pre-suppose  other 
collections  in  which  they  must  have  been  put  together  according  to 
the  order  of  their  employment  in  worship.  .  .  .  Finally,  these  works 
prescribe  the  time,  the  place,  the  forms,  of  the  rites  of  worship,  with 
all  the  preceding  and  following  practices.  In  short,  the  Kalpa-books 
are  complete  systems  of  ritual  prescription,  which  have  no  other  object 
than  to  designate  the  entire  course  of  the  sacred  ceremonial  with  all 
that  accuracy  which  is  demanded  for  acts  done  in  the  presence  of  the 
gods,  and  to  their  honour. 

"  The  aim  of  a  Brahmana  is  something  very  different.  As  its  name 
indicates,  its  subject  is  the  'brahma,'  the  sacred  element  in  the  rite,  not 
the  rite  itself.  Something  holy,  the  conception  of  the  divine,  lies 
veiled  beneath  the  ceremony.  It  has  now  obtained  a  sensible  fonn, 
which  must,  however,  remain  a  mystery  for  those  to  whom  that  con- 
ception is  unknown.  He  only  Who  knows  the  divinity,  its  manifesta- 
tion and  its  relation  to  men,  can  explain  the  signification  of  the 
symbol.  Such  an  explanation  the  Brahmana  aims  at  giving  ;  it  pro- 
poses to  unfold  the  essence  of  theological  wisdom,  which  is  hidden 
under  the  mode  of  worship  inherited  from  ancient  times.  From  this 
cause  arises  the  mysterious,  concise,  often  dark,  style  of  the  language 
which  we  find  in  these  books;  They  are,  indeed,  the  oldest  prose 
which  is  preserved  to  us  in  Indian  literature. 

"An  example  of  these  symbolical  explanations  is  subjoined,  from 
the  beginning  of  the  Aitareya-brahmana  : — At  the  commencement  of 
certain  sacrifices,  clarified  butter  is  offered  to  Agni  and  Vishnu  in 
eleven  platters.  This  is  done  by  preference  to  these  two  deities,  the 
Brahmana  explains,  because  they  embrace  the  whole  pantheon,  Agni 


182  PEOPESSOE  EOTH  ON  THE  CHAEACTEE 

as  the  lowest  of  the  gods  (the  fire  of  the  hearth  and  altar),  and  Vishnu 
as  the  highest  (the  sun  in  the  zenith) ;  and  thus  sacrifice  is  offered  to 
aU  the  gods  in  the  persons  of  these  two.  Eleven  platters  are  presented, 
though  there  are  only  two  gods ;  eight  of  the  platters  are  claimed  by 
Agni,  because  the  gayatrl,  the  metre  sacred  to  him,  has  eight  syllables; 
three  platters  belong  to  Vishnu,  be'cause  he  traverses  the  heavens  in 
three  strides  (the  three  stations  of  his  rising,  his  culmination,  and  his 
setting). 

"Such  explanations  may  as  frequently  be  the  mere  inventions  of 
a  religious  philosophy  (encountered  by  us  here  in  its  oldest  form), 
which  delights  in  bold  parallels,  and  a  pretentious  exegesis,  as  actual 
recollections  of  the  beginnings  of  the  liturgy,  in  which,  among  a 
people  like  the  Indians,  we  may  reasonably  expect  to  find  delicate  and 
thoughtful  references.  These  books  will  always  continue  to  be  to  us 
the  most  valuable  sources  for  tracing  the  beginnings  of  thought  on 
divine  things;  and,  at  the  same  time,  sources  from  which  we  may 
draw  the  most  varied  information  regarding  the  conceptions  on  which 
the  entire  system  of  worship,  as  well  as  the  social  and  hierarchical 
order,  of  India,  are  founded.  In  proof  of  this,  I  will  only  refer  to 
the  lights  which  may  be  derived  from  the  seventh  and  eighth  books  of 
the  Aitareya-brahmana  on  the  position  of  the  castes,  and  on  the  regal 
and  sacerdotal  dignities.  The  Brahmanas  are  the  dogmatical  books  of 
the  Brahmans;  not  a  scientifically  marshalled  system  of  tenets,  but 
a  collection  of  dogmas,  as  they  result  from  religious  practice.  They 
were  not  written  as  a  complete  exposition  of  the  principles  of  belief; 
but  they  are  necessary  towards  such  an  exposition,  because  they  were 
meant  to  explain  and  establish  the  whole  customary  ceremonial  of 
worship. 

"  It  is  impossible  not  to  perceive  that  the  Brahmanas  are  based  upon 
a  pre-existing,  widely-ramified,  and  highly-developed  system  of  worship. 
The  further  the  practice  of  sacred  institutions  has  advanced,  the  less 
distinctly  are  those  who  practise  them  conscious  of  their  meaning. 
Gradually,  around  the  central  portion  of  the  ceremony,  which  in  its 
origin  was  perfectly  transparent  and  intelligible,  there  grows  up  a 
mass  of  subordinate  observances,  which  in  proportion  as  they  are 
developed  in  detail,  become  more  loosely  connected  with  the  funda- 
mental thought.     The  form,  becoming  more  independent,  loses  its 


AND  AGE  OF  THE  BEAHMANAS.  183 

symbolical  purport.  The  Indian  worship  had  already  reached  such 
a  stage,  when  the  religious  reflection  exhibited  in  the  Brahmanas 
began  to  work  upon  it.  Here,  as  in  all  the  other  religious  systems  of 
antiquity,  the  observation  is  verified  that  it  is  not  religious  dogmas, 
and  reflection  upon  these,  that  give  birth  to  forms  of  worship,  but 
that  it  is  religious  worship,  which  (itself  the  product  of  religious 
feeling,  inspired  by,  and  become  subservient  to,  a  conception  of  the 
divine)  becomes,  in  its  turn,  the  parent  of  a  more  developed  and 
firmly  defined  theology.  Such  was  the  relation  of  the  Brahmanas  to 
the  current  worship.  The  Brahmana  does  not  appeal  to  the  dicta  of 
the  sacred  hymns  as  its  own  first  and  most  immediate  source,  but 
rather  rests  upon  the  customary  ceremonial,  and  upon  the  earlier 
conceptions  of  that  ceremonial.  The  Aitareya-brahmana,  for  instance, 
from  which  I  borrow  details,  appeals  not  only  to  authorities  (to  whom 
written  compositions  are  never  ascribed),  such  as  the  Eishi  S'rauta 
(vii.  1) ;  Saujata,  son  of  Ara].ha  (vii.  22) ;  Eama,  son  of  Mrigu  (vii,  34) ; 
Maitreya,  son  of  Kusharu  (viii.  38),  etc.,  or  to  preceding  sacrificial  cere- 
monials of  the  same  kind ;  but  further,  the  whole  form  of  its  represen- 
tation is  based  upon  the  tradition  of  earlier  custom.  Its  customary 
formula  for  this,  which  is  continually  recurring  at  the  head  of  a  new 
passage,  is  tadd  "htts,  'it  is  further  said,'  or  atho  khah  akus,  'it  is  more- 
over said;'  and  frequent  reference  is  made  to  difference  of  opinions; 
'  so  do  or  say  the  one  set  of  persons,  and  the  others  otherwise.'  But 
I  have  never  met  with  a  citation  of  an  older  writing. 

"Taking  aU  this  into  consideration,  we  may  conclude  that  the 
Brahmanas  belong  to  a  stage  in  the  religious  development  of  India 
when  the  Brahmanical  faith  was  full-blown.  Those  religious  con- 
ceptions and  sacred  usages,  which,  even  in  the  hymns  of  the  Rigveda, 
we  can  see  advancing  from  a  simple  and  unconnected  form  to  compact 
and  multiform  shapes,  have  now  spread  themselves  over  the  entire 
life  of  the  people,  and  in  the  hands  of  the  priests  have  become  a 
power  predominant  over  everything  else." 

It  thus  appears  that  the  Brahmanas,  though  they  have  come  to  be 
regarded  as  parts  of  the  Veda,  are  yet  in  time  far  posterior  to  the 
hymns,  from  which,  further,  they  differ  entirely  in  character,  and  to  a 
great  extent  in  language,  but  which  they  constantly  presuppose,  and 
to  which  they  allude  in  every  page.     Thus  in  the  Brahmanas  we  have 


184  HYMlifS  QUOTED  IN  THE  BRAHMANAS. 

moh  expreseious  oontinually  recurring  as,  "Thus  did  the  yishi  say.""* 
"Hence  this  has  been  declared  hy  the  rishi."™  "Bishis  of  the  Eigveda 
have  uttered  this  hymn  of  fifteen  verses."  ™  And  in  Sayana's  Intro- 
duction to  the  Eigveda  it  is  stated  as  follows  (Comment,  on  E.V., 
vol.  i.  p.  2)  I'-^Tathd  eha  sarva-veia-gatani  hr&hmanani  sv&bhihite  'rthe 
visvasa-da^hyaya  "  tad  etad  ricka  'hhyanuMam "  iti  rieham  eva  uda- 
haranti  \  "  And  so  the  Brahmanas  connected  with  all  the  Vedas,  in 
order  to  strengthen  belief  in  their  assertions,  refer  to  the  Eigveda, 
saying,  '  This  is  declared  by  the  Eich.'  " 

The  S'atapatha-brahmana,  in  a  passage  at  p.  1052  of  Weber's  edition 
(corresponding  with  the  Brihadaraeyaka-upanishad,  p.  213),  refers  as 
follows  to  a  hymn  of  Vamadeva  in  the  fourth  mandala  of  the  Eig- 
veda:— Tad  ha  etat  pasyann  rishir  Vamadevah  pratipede  "  aham  Manwr 
abhmam  suryai  cha"  iti  \  "Wherefore  the  rishi  Vamadeva  in  vision 
obtained  this  text, '  I  was  Manu  and  the  sun.'  "  Again,  the  Taittirlya 
Sanhita,  and  the  KaushltakI,  S'atyayana,  and  Tandaka  Brahmanas  refer 
to  Vasishtha,  in  passages  already  quoted  in  the  first  volume  of  this 
work,  p.  328.  Now,  as  Vasishtha  was  a  Vedic  rishi,  the  author 
of  numerous  hymns,  these  Brahmanas  must  have  been  later  than 
those  hymns. 

To  illustrate  the  manner  in  which  the  hymns  are  quoted  in  the 

Brahmanas,  I  will  only  cite  further  a  portion  of  the  passage  from 

the  Aitareya-brahmana,  vii.  13-18,  relating  the  story  of  S'unassepa, 

which  was  first  given  in  original  in  the  Appendix  to  Professor  Miiller's 

Ancient  Sanskrit  Literature,  pp.  581,  582,  and  afterwards  appeared  in 

Prof.  Haug's  edition  of  that  Brahmana : — Atha  ha  S'unaHepah  zhhan' 

chaTcre   "  amanusham  iva  vai  ma   viSasishyanii  \  hanta   aham  devatdh 

upadhdmmi"  iti  \  sa  Prq/dpatim  eva  prathamam  devatdndm  upasasdra. 

" kasya  nunafh,  katamasya  amritdndm"  ity  etayd  riohd  \  tarn,  Prajapati/r 

uvdcha  " A.gnir  vai  devdndm  nedishthah  |  tarn  eva  wpadhdva"  iti  \  so 

'gnim  vpasasdra   "  Agner  vayam  prathamasya  amritdndm"   ity  etayd 

riohd  I       [When  he  saw  the  preparations  made  for  his  immolation], 

"S'unassepa  reflected,  'They  are  about  to  slay  me,  as  if  I  were  not 

a  man.     I  shall  resort  to  the  gods.'     He  accordingly  addressed  him- 

*18  Iti  ha  sma  aha,  rishih  \ 

s*"  S'atap.-tr.  xiii.,  5,  4,  5 : — Tasmad  etad  rishim  ahhyanuTctam  \ 
318  Weber's  Hist,  of  Ind.  Lit.,  p.  118.     Boht.  and  Eoth's  Diet.,  sub  voce  BisW, 
Tad  etad  bahvrioha^  pamhadaim-cham  prahuh  \ 


THE  BEAHMANAS  LATER  THAN  THE  HYMNS.  185 

self  to  Prajapati,  the  first  of  the  gods,  with  this  'rich'  (Rigveda,  i.  24, 
1),  'Of  whom  now,  of  which  of  all  the  immortals,'  etc.  Prajapati 
said  to  him,  'Agni  is  the  nearest  of  the  gods,  resort  to  him.'  He 
addressed ' himself  to  Agni  with  this  'rich'  (Rigveda  i.  24,  2),  'Of 
Agni,  the  first  of  the  immortals,'  etc."  In  the  same  way  he  is  repre- 
sented as  addressing  to  various  deities  in  succession  the  verses  com- 
posing the  remainder  of  the  24th,  and  the  whole  of  the  25th,  26th, 
and  27th  hymns  of  the  first  book  of  the  Rigveda,  ending  with  the 
last  verse  of  the  27th  sukta  :  "  Salutation  to  the  great!  Salutation  to 
the  little !"  addressed  to  the  Vi^ve-devah.^^' 

That  the  Brahmanas  were  separated  from  the  hymns  by  a  consider- 
able interval  of  time  is  manifest  from  the  various  considerations 
which  are  urged  in  the  passage  just  quoted  (pp.  180,  ff.)  from  Professor 
Roth ;  who  informs  us,  for  instance,  that  the  Brahmanas,  besides 
alluding  to  texts  in  the  hymns,  appeal  on  the  subject  of  the  ritual  to 
various  preceding  unwritten  authorities ;  and  states  his  opinion,  that 
the  "Brahmanas  belong  to  a  stage  in  the  religious  development  of 
India,  when  the  Brahmanical  faith  was  full-blown  ;"  and  that  "  those 
religious  conceptions  and  sacred  usages,  which,  even  in  the  hymns  of 
the  Rigveda,  can  be  seen  advancing  from  a  simple  and  unconnected 
form  to  compact  and  manifold  shapes,  have  now  [in  the  Brahmanas] 
extended  themselves  over  the  entire  life  of  the  people."  This  process 
was  no  doubt  one  which  required  several  centuries  for  its  accom- 
plishment. 

And  Professor  MiiUer  says  (Ano.  Sansk.  Lit.  pp.  432,  434),  "  There 
is  throughout  the  Brahmanas  such  a  complete  misunderstanding  of  the 
original  intention  of  the  Vedic  hymns,  that  we  can  hardly  understand 
how  such  an  estrangement  could  have  taken  place,  unless  there  had 
been  at  some  time  or  other  a  sudden  and  violent  break  in  the  chain  of 
tradition."  And  again  :  "  Every  page  of  the  Brahmanas  contains  the 
clearest  proof  that  the  spirit  of  the  ancient  Yedic  poetry,  and  the  pur- 
port of  the  original  Vedic  sacrifices  were  both  beyond  the  comprehen- 

^^^  Namo  mdhaMliyo  namo  arbha}cebhyali\  See  MuUer's  Anc.  Sansk.  Lit.  pp. 
413,  ff. ;  Prof.  Eoth's  article  in  Weber's  Ind.  Stud.  i.  461 ;  Prof.  "Wilson's  article 
in  Jour.  E.  A.  S.  vol.  xiii.,p.  100,  and  translation  of  the  Eigveda,  i.  pp.  59-71 ; 
Prof.  Hang's  translation  of  the  Ait.  Br.  pp.  460,  ff. ;  Dr.  Streiter'a  Diss,  de  Sunahsepo  ; 
and  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  356,  ff. 

VOL.  II.  13 


186  THE  HYMNS  BECOME  DIFFICULT  TO  UNDERSTAND. 

sion  of  the  authors  of  the  Brahmanas We  thus  perceive  the 

wide  chasm  between  the  Brahmana  period  and  that  period  by  which 
it  is  preceded."  The  Brahmana  period,  we  have  already  seen  (p.  164 
above),  is  placed  by  him  in  the  200  years  following  the  second  Vedic 
period,  that  of  the  Mantras. 

As  time  still  passed  on,  and  a  further  development  of  language  and 
institutions  took  place,  the  Vedic  hymns  became  less  and  less  intel- 
ligible ;  and  owing  to  the  growth  of  formal  and  scrupulous  ceremonial 
prescriptions,  the  application  of  the  sacred  texts  to  public  worship 
became  more  and  more  difficult.  As  a  natural  consequence,  the 
literature  connected  with  the  explanation  of  the  Mantras,  their  pro- 
nunciation and  their  ritual  uses,  continued  to  augment.  Then  the 
different  grammatical  Prati^akhya  aphorisms,  the  S'rauta  and  Grihya 
ritual  Sutras,  the  Nighantus  and  Nirukta  were  composed.  These 
works,  as  we  have  already  seen,  were  the  growth  of  several  successive 
ages  subsequent  to  the  date  of  the  oldest  Brahmanas."" 

'*"  On  this  subject  Professor  Eoth  remarks  (Introd.  to  Nirukta,  p.  lii.)  as  follows : 
— "  In  Greece  a  simflar  state  of  things  prevailed.  There,  with  the  exception  of 
Hesiod  (who  never  rose  to  the  same  degree  of  consideration),  Homer  was  the  only 
source  of  the  highest  knowledge,  and  preeminently  the  book  of  the  schools ;  the  book 
which  gave  the  first  occasion  to  grammatical,  and  almost  every  other  sort  of  science 
to  develope  itself.  In  India  the  Veda  occupies  the  place  of  Homer.  It  was  to  the 
Veda  that  the  Brahmanical  people  looked  as  the  sole  repository  of  intellectual 
culture.  As  a  sacred  book  it  was  the  more  naturally  a  subject  of  research  to  the 
learned  man,  as  he  was  at  the  same  time  a  priest,  and  it  became  the  first  problem 
to  be  solved  by  grammar, — a  science  which  was  far  more  commonly  studied,  and 
at  an  earlier  period  attained  a  far  higher  stage,  in  India  than  in  Greece.  At  the 
same  time,  the  Veda,  both  as  regards  its  language  and  its  subject-matter,  stood  far 
further  removed  from  the  Indian  of  the  two  centuries  immediately  preceding  Buddha 
(700  and  600  B.C.) — in  which  the  sacerdotal  system  reached  its  climax— than  Homer 
did  from  the  Greek  of  the  Periclean  era.  At  that  period,  or  even  earlier,  were 
formed  the  collection  of  Homeric  words  which  had  become  obsolete, — the  yXao-irai ; 
while  in  India,  the  '  nighautavas'  (a  word  which  I  conceive  to  be  identical  in  meaning 
with  yKiatrirai)  had  been  compiled  to  illustrate  the  Veda.  In  both  cases  the  collec- 
tions had  the  same  origin ;  but  in  the  short  interval  from  Pericles  to  the  end  of  the 
Alexandrian  era,  the  Greeks  had  done  more  for  the  explanation  of  Homer  than  the 
Indians  could  accomplish  for  the  comprehension  of  the  Veda,  in  the  long  series  of 
ages  down  to  the  times  of  Sayana  and  Mahldhara,  in  the  sixteenth  century  a.d. 
The  task  of  the  Indians  was,  in  truth,  by  far  the  more  difficult ;  and  besides,  Indian 
scholarship  lay  under  an  incapacity  of  unfettered  movement.  It  was  necessary  for 
orthodoxy  to  deny  the  facts  of  history,  and  to  discover  only  the  circumstances  of  the 
present  in  the  monuments  of  antiquity;  for  the  present  was  both  unable  and 
unwilling  to  rest  on  any  other  foundation  than  the  traditions  of  an  earlier  age. 


VEDIC  SANHITAS,  THE  THREEFOLD  SCIENCE.  187 

Fourth : — When  at  length  we  ascend  above  the  oldest  of  the  Brah- 
manas,  and  arrive  at  the  still  more  ancient  collections  ("  Sanhitas,"  as 
they  are  called  in  Sanskrit)  of  the  Vedic  hymns  themselves,  we  shall 
find  even  here  distinct  proofs  of  a  difference  of  age  not  only  between 
the  several  collections  viewed  as  aggregates,  but  also  between  different 
component  parts  of  the  same  compilations.  Of  the  four  Vedic  Sanhitas, 
the  Eik,  Tajush,  Saman,  and  Atharvan,  the  Eigveda  is  by  far  the 
most  complete  and  important  collection.  Before,  however,  proceeding 
to  give  some  account  of  its  contents,  I  must  premise  a  few  words 
about  the  other  Sanhitas. 

(i.)  Although  the  Yedas  were  sometimes  considered  to  be  only  three 
in  number,  and  the  Atharvan  was  not  always  denominated  a  Veda,  yet 
many  of  the  hymns  or  incantations  of  which  it  is  made  up  appear  to 
be  of  great  antiquity.''" 

That  the  title  of  the  Atharvan  to  be  reckoned  as  one  of  the  Vedas  is 
not  so  incontestable  as  that  of  the  three  others,  wiU  appear  from  the 
following  considerations.  The  knowledge  of  the  Indian  Scriptures  is 
frequently  designated  as  the  triple  science  trayi  vidya,'^'"-'  a  phrase  which 
is  thus  explained  in  Messrs.  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth''s  Lexicon:  "The  three- 
fold science  was  originally  the  knowledge  of  the  sacred  word  in  its  triple 
form  of  hymn,  sacrificial  formula,  and  song :  out  of  this  sense  subsequently 
arose  another,  viz.,  the  knowledge  of  the  three  Yedas,  which  represent 
that  threefold  form."  In  illustration  of  this  the  writers  proceed  to 
quote  or  refer  to  the  following  and  other  texts  from  the  S'atapatha  and 
Aitareya  Brahmanas,  etc.  S'atap.  Br.  iv.  6,  7,  1 :  Trayi  vai  vidya 
richo  yajurhshi  sdmani  iyam  eva  \  "The  Eich-,  Yajush-,  and  Saman-, 
verses  are  the  threefold  science."     S'atap.  Br.  vi.  3,  1,  10;  x.  4,  2,  21 ; 

surrounded  as  these  were  with  a  halo  of  glory,  and  only  half  understood.  The 
priesthood  supplied  the  required  authentic  explanation,  without  which  the  reader 
of  those  ancient  hooks  would  never  have  found  in  them  that  which  he  so  easily 
discovered  with  that  assistance.  The  spirit  of  the  nation,  which  had  been  so  in- 
juriously treated,  hecame  accustomed  to  the  yoke,  and  henceforward  walked  onwards 
in  the  track  which  had  been  marked  out  for  it ;  men's  feeling  for  hfetory  became 
irrecoverably  lost,  and  they  consoled  themselves  with  the  harmless  enjoyment,  which 
was  still  allowed  them,  of  solving  grammatical  questions.  We  can  therefore,  at 
least,  boast,  by  way  of  compensation,  on  behalf  of  the  Indians,  that  they  have  far 
outstripped  the  Greeks  in  the  department  of  grammar." 

*'•  See,  on  the  subject  of  this  Veda,  Miiller's  Anc.  Sans.  Lit.,  pp.  38,  446,  ff., 
Weber's  Hist,  of  Ind.  Lit.  p.  10.,  and  Mr.  Whitney's  papers  in  the  Journal  of  the 
American  Oriental  Society,  iii.  306,  ff.,  and  iv.  254,  ff.       ^'''^*  See  Appendix,  note  A. 


188  ATHAEVAVEDA  NOT  MENTIONED  IN  SOME 

xi.  5,  4,  1 8  ;  Ait.  Br.  v.  32 :  Tebhyo  'hhitaptehhyo  trayo  mdah  lyayanta 
rigvedah  eva  Agner  ajdyata  yajwrvedo  Vayoh  samtmedah  ddityat  \  tan 
vedan  abhyatapat  \  tehhyo  'hhitaptehhyas  trtni  sukrdny  tydyanta  Ihur 
ity  eva  rigvedad  ajayata  hhv/vah  iti  yajv/rvedat  svar  Hi  samwoedat  |  .  .  . 
Sa  Prajapatir  yajnam  atanuta  \  tarn  aha/rat  tena  ayajata  \  sa  richd  eva 
hotram  aharod  yajushd  ddhoarywoaw  sdmnd  udgitham  \  yad  etat  trayyai 
vidydyai  sukram  tena  hrahmatvam  aka/rot  \  "  From  these  (ligits),  ■when 
heated,  the  three  Vedas  arose,  the  Eigveda  from  Agni,  the  Tajurveda 
from  Vayu,  and  the  Samaveda  from  Aditya  (the  sun).  He  infused 
■warmth  into  these  Vedas.  From  them,  when  so  heated,  three  essences 
arose.      'Bhur,'  from  the  Eigveda,   'Bhuvah'  from  the  Tajurveda, 

'Svar,'  from  the  Samaveda This  Prajapati  prepared  sacrifice. 

He  took  it  and  ■worshipped  ■with  it.  With  the  Eich  he  performed  the 
function  of  the  hotri  priest,  ■with  the  Tajush  that  of  the  adhvaryu, 
■with  the  Saman  that  of  the  udgatri,  and  with  the  essence  of  this  triple 
science  he  executed  the  brahman's  function."  In  the  same  way  three 
Vedas  only  are  mentioned  in  the  following  passage  from  the  Chhandogya 
Upanishad '^^  (iv.  17,  1),  etc.: — Prajapatir  lokdn  abhyatapat  \  teshdm 
tapyamdnandm  rasdn  prdhrihad  Agnim  prithivydh  Vdyum  anta/rikshdd 
Adityam  divah  \  Sa  etas  tisro  devatdh  abhyatapat  \  tdsdm  tapyamdndndih 
rasdn  prdbrihad  Agner  richo  vdyor  ycyumshi  Sdma  Aditydt  \  sa  etdm 
traylm  vidydm  abhyatapat  \  tasyds  tapyamdnaydh  rasdn  prdbrihad 
bhur  ity  righhyo  bhmar  iti  yagwrbhyah  svar  iti  sdmabhyah  |  "Prajapati 
infused  warmth  into  the  worlds ;  and  from  them,  so  heated,  he  drew 
forth  their  essences,  Agni  from  the  earth,  Vayu  from  the  atmosphere, 
and  Aditya  from  the  sky.  He  infused  warmth  into  these  three  deities ; 
and  from  them,  so  heated,  he  drew  forth  their  essences  :  Eik-texts  from 
Agni,  Tajush-texts  from  Vayu,  and  Sama-texts  from  Aditya.  He  in- 
fused warmth  into  this  triple  science ;  and  from  it,  so  heated,  he  daevr 
forth  its  essences,  the  particle  Bhur  from  the  Eik-texts,  Bhuvah  from 
the  Tajush-texts,  and  Svar  from  the  Sama-texts." 

In  the  following  verse  (i.  23),  Mann  repeats  the  account  given  in 
the  Brahmanas  and  the  Chhandogya  Upanishad  :  Agni-vdyu-ravibhyas 

222  See  Biblioth.  Ind.  vol.  ill.  (1850)  p.  288.  This  passage  is  also  quoted  in  the 
third  volume  of  this  'Vfork,  p.  5.  See  also  the  passage  from  the  S'atapi.  Br.  xi.  5,  8, 
l,fF.,  quoted  in  pp.  14,  f.  of  the  same  volume,  ■where,  in  like  manner,  only  three 
Vedas  are  mentioned. 


ANCIENT  TEXTS,  BUT  MENTIONED  IN  OTHEES.  189 

tu  trayam  hrwhma  sanatanam  \  dudoha  yajna-siddhy-artJiam  rig-yey'uh- 
sama-lakshanam  \  "  From  Agni,  Vayu,  and  the  Sun  (Eavi),  he  drew 
forth  (milked)  for  the  accomplishment  of  sacrifice  the  eternal  triple 
Veda,  distinguished  as  Eik,  Tajush,  and  Sana  an." 

The  Atharvaveda  may,  however,  be  referred  to  under  the  appellation 
of  "  chhandas,"  in  the  following  passages,  according  to  the  indication  of 
the  Sti  Petersburg  Lexicon,  where  the  second  sense  of  the  word  chhandas 
is  thus  defined  :  "  A  sacred  hymn,  and  according  to  the  first  three  texts 
about  to  be  quoted,  especially  that  sort  which  is  neither  Rich,  Saman, 
nor  Tajush:  hence,  perhaps,  originally,  an  incantation."  The  texts  re- 
ferred to  are  A.Y.  xi.  7,  24 :  Riohah  sam&m  ehhandamsi  pwranafh 
ycyushd  saha  \  wKhishtaj  j<ynwe  \  "  The  Kich-,  Saman-,  and  Chhandas-, 
verses,  and  the  Purana  with  the  Tajush,  sprang  from  the  Uchhishta 
(remnant  of  the  sacrifice)."  E.V.  x.  -90,  9  :  Tasmdd  yajnat  sarvahutah 
riohah  samani  jcy'nire  \  chandamsi  jajnire  tasmad  yajus  tasmad  cydyata  \ 
"  From  that  universal  sacrifice  sprang  the  Eich-,  Saman-,  and  Chhan- 
das-, verses  :  from  it  sprang  the  Tajush."  The  third  text  is  from  the 
Harivamsa  v.  9491  :  Riche  yajumshi  samdni  chhwnddmsy  Athmrvandni 
eha  I  chatvdro  sahMldh  veddh  swrahasydJi  aa/vistarah  \  "  (May)  the 
Eich-,  Tajush-,  and  Saman-,  verses,  and  the  texts  of  the  Atharvan,  the 
four  Vedas  with  their  EhUas  (later  appendages),  their  esoteric  doc- 
trines, and  their  details  (preserve  me)." 

In  the  Atharvaveda  itself,  x.  7,  20,  it  is  thus  alluded  to  as  one  of 
the  Vedaa  under  the  title  of  the  Atharvans  and  Angirases :  Yasmad 
richo  a/pdtakihan  yajur  yasmad  apdhashan  \  sdmdni  yasyo  lomdni  Afhmr- 
vangwaso  mukham  \  Skamihaim  tarn  IruM  katamah  svid  eva  sah  \  "  Tell 
us  who  is  that  Skambha  from  whom  they  cut  off  the  Eich-verses,  from 
whom  they  scraped  off  the  Tajush-verses,  of  whom  the  Saman- 
verses  are  the  hairs,  and  of  whom  the  Atharvans  and  Angirases  form 
the  mouth."  "^ 

The  Atharvan  is  similarly  mentioned  in  the  S'atapatha-brahmana, 
xiii.  4,  3,  7,  Tan  upadUati  "  Athandno  mdah  so  ^yam"  Hi.  .  .  . 
|8|  "Angiraso  vedah  so 'yam"  iti  \  "He  teaches  them  thus,  'The 
Atharvans  are  a  veda  ;  it  is  this.'  .  .  .  (8)  The  Angirases  are  a  veda; 
it  is  this."™    Madhusudana  Sarasvati,  author  of  the  Prasthana-bheda, 

*'''  In  verse  14  of  the  same  hymn,  however,  the  other  three  Vedas  only  are  named. 
22^  gee  Miiller'6  Anc.  Sansk.  Lit.  p.  38. 


190  ATHAEVAVEDA  LATER  THAN  THE  EIGVEDA. 

while  he  calls  it  a  Veda,  notices  at  the  same  time  its  difference  in 
character  from  the  other  three : — Sa  cha  (yedah)  prayoga-trayena  yajna- 
nirvahartham  rig-yajuh-sama-lhedena  Ihinnah  |  .  .  .  .  Atharva-vedas 
tu  yafndnupayufctah  ianti-pmshtikabhichar&di-  Jca/rma-pratvpadakat- 
vena  atyanta-vilakshmah  eva  \  "  The  Veda  is  divided  into  Rik,  Tajush, 
and  Saman,  for  the  purpose  of  carrying  out  the  sacrifice  under  its  three 
different  forms.  .  .  .  The  Atharvaveda,  on  the  contrary,  is  totally 
different.  It  is  not  suitable  for  the  sacrifice,  but  only  teaches  how  to 
appease,  to  bless,  to  curse,  etc."  (Miiller,  Sansk.  Lit.  p.  445).  In 
regard  to  this  Veda,  Mr.  Whitney  remarks :  "  The  Atharva  is,  like 
the  Eik,  a  historical  and  not  a  liturgical  collection."  It  was,  he 
thinks,  originally  composed  of  only  eighteen  books.  A  sixth  of  the 
matter  of  which  these  books  consist  is  not  metrical.  "  Of  the  re- 
mainder, or  metrical  portion,  about  one-sixth  is  also  found  among  the 
hymns  of  the  Eik,  and  mostly  in  the  tenth  book  of  the  latter  j  the  rest 
is  peculiar  to  the  Atharva.  .  .  .  The  greater  portion  of  them  are 
plainly  shown,  both  by  their  language  and  internal  character,  to  be  of 
much  later  date  than  the  general  contents  of  the  other  historic  Veda, 
and  even  than  its  tenth  book,  with  which  they  yet  stand  nearly  con- 
nected in  import  and  origin.  The  condition  of  the  text  also  in  those 
passages  found  likewise  in  the  Eik,  points  as  distinctly  to  a  more 
recent  period  as  that  of  their  collection.  This,  however,  would  not 
necessarily  imply  that  the  main  body  of  the  Atharva  hymns  were  not 
already  in  existence  when  the  compilation  of  the  Eik  took  place. 
Their  character  would  be  ground  enough  for  their  rejection  and  exclu- 
sion from  the  canon,  until  other  and  less  scrupulous  hands  were  found 
to  undertake  their  separate  gathering  into  an  independent  collection. 
The  nineteenth  book  is  .  .  .  made  up  of  matter  of  a  like  nature  which 
had  either  been  left  out  when  they  were  compiled,  or  had  been  since 
produced."  (Journal  of  the  American  Oriental  Society,  iv.  253,  255.) 
The  priority  of  the  Eigveda  to  the  Atharva  may  also  be  argued  from 
the  fact  that  the  rishis  of  the  hymns  in  the  Eigveda  are  referred  to 
in  the  Atharvaveda  as  men  of  an  earlier  period ;  in  proof  of  which  I 
may  refer  to  the  passages  quoted  in  the  first  volume  of  this  work, 
p.  330.  It  is  true  that  the  same  thing  is  noticeable  to  some  degree 
in  the  Eigveda  itself,  in  some  later  hymns  of  which  the  rishis  of 
earlier  hymns  are  referred  to  by  name.    In  the  Atharvaveda,  -how- 


CHARACTER  OF  THE  SAMAVEDA.  191 

ever,  tie  names  so  specified  are  chiefly  those  of  the  more  recent  rishia, 
■while  many  of  the  personages  referred  to  in  the  Rigveda  appear  to 
belong  to  a  more  primitive  age.  (See  Roth's  Litt.  und  Gesch.  des 
Weda,  p.  13.)  In  the  former  Veda,  too,  the  Indian  institutions  appear 
in  a  somewhat  more  developed  state  than  in  the  Rigveda.  There  is 
one  point  at  least  in  which  this  development  seems  to  be  visible,  viz. 
in  the  caste  system,  see  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  280-289.  The 
following  extract  from  Weber's  History  of  Indian  Literature,  p.  10, 
wiU  exhibit  his  opinion  of  the  general  difference  which  exists  between 
the  Rigveda  and  the  Atharvaveda:  "The  origin  of  the  Atharva- 
sanhita  falls  within  the  period  when  Brahmanism  had  become  dominant. 
....  Many  of  the  hymns  which  it  contains  are  to  be  found  also  in 
the  Eik-sanhita,  but  there  they  are  recent  interpolations  originating  in 
the  period  when  its  compilation  took  place ;  while  in  the  Atharva  col- 
lection they  are  the  just  and  proper  expression  of  the  present.  The 
spirit  of  the  two  collections  is  entirely  different.  In  the  Rik  there 
breathes  a  lively  natural  feeling,  a  warm  love  for  nature ;  while  in  the 
Atharva,  on  the  contrary,  there  predominates  an  anxious  apprehension 
of  evil  spirits  and  their  magical  powers.  In  the  Rik  we  see  the  people 
in  the  exercise  of  perfect  freedom  and  voluntary  activity ;  while  in  the 
Atharva  we  observe  them  bound  in  the  fetters  of  the  hierarchy  and  of 
superstition."^^* 

(ii.)  The  Samaveda  is  a  collection  of  separate  texts  to  be  chanted 
at  particular  parts  of  the  sacrifice  ;  ^^°  which,  with  the  exception  of  a 
few,  are  aU  to  be  found  in  different  parts  of  the  Kigveda,  espe- 
cially the  8th  and  9th  mandalas.  In  the  Rigveda  we  find  the  entire 
-hymns  :  in  the  first  part  of  the  Samaveda  we  find  only  isolated  verses 
of  those  hymns,  dislocated  from  their  natural  connexion ;  though  in 
the  second  part  the  extracts  are  connected,  and  of  greater  length. 
It  is  not,  however,  quite  clear  whether  the  Sama  collection  or  the  Rik 
collection  may  have  been  first  made.  Weber  remarks  (Hist,  of  Ind. 
Lit.,  pp.  9,  62),  that  the  texts  of  the  Samaveda  frequently  exhibit  more 
ancient  grammatical  forms  than  those  of  the  Rigveda,  and  suggests 
that  as  the  former  contains  no  extracts  from  any  of  the  later  hymns 
of  the  latter,  it  may  have  been  compiled  before  these  later  pieces  had 

224*  See  Appendix,  Note  B.  "*  See  MuUer,  pp.  472-3. 


192  THE  VAJASANETI  AND  TAITTIEIYA 

been  composed ;  but  adds  that  this  point  has  not  been  yet  investigated."'* 
"Whitney  also  leaves  the  question  undecided  (Joum.  Am.  Or.  Society, 
iv.  253,  254). 

Miiller,  on  the  other  hand,  says  (Anc.  Sansk.  Lit.,  p.  457) : — "  The 
other  two  Sanhitas  were  more  likely  the  production  of  the  Brahmana 
period.  These  two  Vedas,  the  Tajurveda  and  the  Samaveda,  were, 
in  truth,  what  they  are  called  in  the  Kaushitaki-brahmana,  the  at- 
tendants of  the  Kigreda." '"  He  supposes  that  the  hymns  found  in  the 
three  Yedas  were  not  "  collected  at  three  times  by  three  independent 
collectors.  If  so,  their  differences  would  have  been  greater  than  they 
are."  Their  actual  differences  are  rather  those  of  S'akhas  or  branches, 
he  thinks,  than  of  independent  Sanhitas  or  collections. 

(iii.)  Both  the  Sanhitas  of  the  Tajurveda  are  collections  of  sacri- 
ficial formulas  in  prose,  as  well  as  of  verses  which  are  partly  extracted 

2-s  In  his  Ind.  Stud.  i.  63,  f.  the  same  author  writes  as  follows : — "  As  regards 
the  relation  of  the  Samaveda  to  the  Rigveda,  we  must  clearly  represent  to  ourselves 
the  manner  in  which  in  general  these  hymns  arose,  how  they  were  then  carried  to  a 
distance  by  the  tribes  when  they  migrated  further,  and  were  then  regarded  as  sacred ; 
whilst  in  the  country  where  they  were  produced,  they  either,  as  living  in  the  imme- 
diate popular  consciousness,  underwent  alterations,  or  made  way  for  new  hymns,  and 
were  thus  displaced  and  fell  into  oblivion.  It  is  only  a  foreign  country  which  sur- 
rounds what  was  produced  at  home  with  a  sacred  enchantment.  The  emigrants 
remain  at  the  old  stage,  preserving  what  is  ancient  with  painful  exactness ;  whilst  at 
home  life  opens  out  for  itself  new  paths.  New  emigrants  follow  the  first  from  their 
home,  join  those  already  settled  in  the  new  seats ;  and  now  the  old  and  the  new 
songs  and  rites  are  blended  together,  and  exactly,  but  uncritically,  learned  by 
travelling  scholars  from  different  masters,  and  then  inculcated  (on  this  point  several 
stories  of  the  Brihad  Aranyaka  are  especially  instructive),  so  that  a  varied  inter- 
mixture arises.  Others  again,  more  learned,  endeavour  to  introduce  arrangement, 
to  bring  together  things  which  are  related,  to  separate  what  is  diverse ;  and  thus 
a  theological  intolerance  is  generated,  without  which  the  fixation  of  a  text  or  a  canon 
is  impossible.  We  should  not  overlook  the  influence  of  courts  in  this  process,  e.g. 
of  Janaka,  King  of  Videha,  who  had  found  in  Tajnavalkya  his  Homer.  Neither 
the  Puranas  nor  the  Charanavyuha  afford  us  the  means  of  arriving  at  an  approxim- 
ately clear  insight  into  the  mutual  relation's  of  the  different  schools,  which  could  only 
be  attained  by  a  comparison  of  the  different  teachers  named  in  the  Brahmanas  and 
Sutras  with  one  another,  as  well  as  with  the  text  of  Panini  and  the  Ganapatha  and 
Scholium  thereto  belonging.  .  .  .  Further,  the  relation  between  the  Rigveda 
and  the  Samaveda  presents  a  certain  analogy  to  that  between  the  white  and  the 
black  Tajush  j  and  as  we  frequently  see  the  teachers  who  represent  the  latter  abused  in 
the  Brahmana  of  the  former,  it  cannot  surprise  us  if  the  Panigins  and  Kaushitakins 
[teachers  connected  with  the  Eigveda]  are  similarly  treated  in  the  Samaveda 
Brahmana." 

'"  Tat-paricharanav  itarau  veiau  |      vi.  11. 


SANHITAS  OF  THE  TAJUfiVEDA.  193 

from  the  Eigveda.  There  is,  however,  this  difference  between  the 
white  (or  Yajasaneyi)  and  black  (or  Taittirlya)  Tajurveda  Sanhitas,  that 
the  latter  has  partly  the  character  of  a  Brahmana,  although  there  is  also 
a  separate  Taittiriya  Brahmana.  Many  parts  of  the  Yajurveda  exhibit 
a  more  advanced  development  of  religions  institutions  and  observances 
than  the  Higveda.  Professor  Weber,  the  editor  of  this  Veda,'^  con- 
siders (Hist,  of  Ind.  Lit.  p.  10),  that  it  "  belongs  to  a  period  when  the 
Brahmanical  element  had  already  become  predominant,  though  it  was 
still  exposed  to  strenuous  opposition;  and  when,  at  all  events,  the 
Brahmanical  hierarchy  and  the  system  of  castes  had  been  completely 
formed."  The  same  writer  tells  us  (pp.  106,  107),  that  "the  30th 
book  of  the  Vajasaneyi-sanhita  of  the  Yajurveda,  in  enumerating 
the  different  classes  of  men  who  are  to  be  consecrated  at  the  Purusha- 
medha,  or  Human  sacrifice,  refers  to  the  names  of  most  of  the  Indian 
mixed  castes,  so  that  we  may  tbence  conclude  that  a  complete  con- 
solidation of  the  Brahmanical  system  had  taken  place."  The  Vaja- 
saneyi-sanhita is  divided  into  forty  Adhyayas  or  sections,  of  which 
"Weber  thinks  (Hist,  of  Ind.  Lit.  pp.  103,  104),  that  those  from  the 
19th  to  the  25  th  may  be  later  than  the  first  eighteen ;  while  there  is, 
he  remarks,  no  doubt  that  the  last  fifteen  adhyayas  are  later,  and 
perhaps  much  later,  than  the  rest  of  the  collection.  This  is  proved  by 
this  portion  of  the  Sanhita  being  called  a  EJula,  or  supplement,  both 
in  the  anukramani  or  index,  which  is  ascribed  to  Katyayana,  and  also 
in  ITahidhara's  Commentary  on  the  Yeda.*^'  A  farther  proof  of  the 
posteriority  in  date  of  the  last  parts  of  the  Vajasaneyi-sanhita  is,  Weber 

'^  In  his  Hist,  of  Ind.  Lit.  p.  140,  Weber  tells  ns  that  "  in  the  Anntramani  of 
Katyayana  to  the  Yajasaneyi-sanhita  of  the  Y^nrveda,  the  anthois  (rishis)  assigned 
to  the  particular  verses  (rich)  nsnally  coincide  with  the  anthors  assigned  to  the  same 
verses  in  the  Anukramani  of  the  Bigreda ;  hut  that  there  are  many  exceptions  to 
this  remark.  In  particular  (as  happens  also  in  the  Big-anukramanT)  the  name  of 
the  author  appears  often  to  be  borrow'ed  from  some  word  occuiriDg  in  the  verse. 
And  in  the  case  (a  very  frequent  one)  of  a  verse  being  repeated  in  another  part  of 
the  Vaj.-san.,  it  is  often  assigned  to  an  author  different  from  the  one  to  whom  it 
had  previously  been  ascribed.  Many  of  the  rishis  here  referred  to  do  not  occur 
among  those  of  the  lUgveda,  and  belong  to  a  later  stage  than  the  latter ;  and  among 
these  rishis  peculiar  to  the  Vajasaneyi-sanhita  there  are  several  who  are  named  in 
the  S'atapatha-brahmana  as  teachers." 

'^  The  words  of  Mahidhara  at  the  commencement  of  the  26th  adhyaya  are  as 
follows :  Idamm  Jehilany  ueht/ante  |  "  The  Khilas  are  now  to  be  explained."  See 
also  Miiller's  Sansk.  lit.,  p.  358. 


194  THE  EIGVEDA  SANHIXA. 

observes,  derived  from  the  fact  that  they  are  not  found  in  the  Sanhita  of 
the  Black  Yajurveda,  but  only  in  its  Brahmana  or  in  its  Aranyaka  parts, 
which  by  their  very  character  are  in  date  subsequent  to  the  Sanhita 
(p.  104).  "Weber  is  further  of  opinion  (pp.  44,  106  and  106),  that  the 
names  (Isana  and  Mahadeva)  assigned  to  the  god  Eudra  in  adhyaya  39, 
in  addition  to  those  by  which  he  is  designated  in  adhyaya  16  (where 
he  is  regarded  as  the  divinity  of  fire,  though  addressed  by  many  of  the 
epithets  which  were  subsequently  applied  to  the  god  S'iva),  indicate 
a  more  advanced  stage  in  the  worship  of  the  deity  in  question  at  the 
time  when  adhyaya  39  was  composed,  than  at  the  period  when 
adhyaya  16  was  written.  Professor  Miiller  thinks  that  "there  is 
nothing  to  prove  that  the  hymn  book  of  the  Vajasaneyins  [the  Vaja- 
saneyi-sanhita]  existed  previous  to  their  Brahmana"  [the  S'atapatha]. 
Sansk.  Lit.  p.  360. 

(iv.)  We  come  now  to  the  Rigveda-sanhita,  which  contaitts  the 
most  extensive  collection  of  the  most  ancient  Vedio  hymns  in  their 
complete  form.  It  is  divided  into  ten  mandalas,  and  contains  in  all 
1017  hymns  (Miiller,  p.  497).  "  The  Vedas,"  says  Mr.  "Whitney  (Journ. 
Am.  Or.  Soc,  iii.  295),  "  contain  the  songs  in  which  the  first  ances- 
tors of  the  Hiudu  people,  at  the  very  dawn  of  their  existence  as 
a  separate  nation,  while  they  were  still  only  on  the  threshold  of  the 
great  country  which  they  were  afterwards  to  fill  with  their  civilization, 
praised  the  gods,  extolled  heroic  deeds,  and  sang  of  other  matters 
which  kindled  their  poetical  fervour.^'"  .  .  .  The  mass,  as  it  lies  before 
us,  is  almost  exclusively  of  a  religious  character ;  this  may  have  had 
its  ground  partly  in  the  end  for  which  the  collections  were  afterwards 
made,  but  it  is  probably  in  a  far  higher  degree  due  to  the  character  of 
the  people  itself,  which  thus  shows  itself  to  have  been  at  the  beginning 
what  it  continued  to  be  throughout  its  whole  history,  an  essentially 
religious  one.  .'  .  .  Hymns  of  a  vefy  different  character  are  not  en- 
tirely wanting,  and  this  might  be  taken  as  an  indication  that,  had 
they  been  more  numerous,  more  would  have  been  preserved  to  us."''^' 

"'"  See  also,  for  an  account  of  the  contents  of  the  hymns,  Professor  'Wilson's 
Introduction  to  his  translation  of  the  Rigveda,  p.  xxiv.  ff. ;  and  for  numerous 
specimens,  the  other  yolumes  of  this  work,  passim. 

*3i  See  my  art.  "  Miscellaneous  Hymns  from  the  Rig  and  Atharva  Vedas,"  in  the 
Journal  of  the  Royal  As.  Soc,  vol.  ii.  (new  series)  pp.  26,  ff,  and  the  fifth  volume 


THE  RISHIS,  AUTHOES  OF  THE  HYMNS.  195 

These  hymns  are  said,  by  later  Indian  writers,  to  have  been  "  seen  " 
by  the  ancient  rishis  or  bards.  Thus  the  Nirukta  says  (ii.  11) :  Rishir 
darsanat]  " stoman  dadaria"  ity  Aupamanyavah  \  tad  yad  enams 
"  tapaayamanSM  Brahma  svayambhv  alhy-anarshat  te  rishayo  'hhavan  | 
tad  risMnam  rishitvam"  iti  vijn&yate  \  '"Arishi  is  so  called  from 
seeing.  He  saw  the  hymns:' — This  is  Aupamanyava's  explanation. 
They  became  rishis,  because  Brahma,  the  self-existent,  manifested 
himself  to  them  when  they  were  sunk  in  devotion.  From  this,  as  is 
generally  understood,  they  acquired  their  character  of  rishis."  There 
is,  however,  no  doubt  that  the  rishis  were  themselves  the  authors 
of  these  ancient  songs,  which  they  addressed  to  the  gods  when 
they  were  solicitous  to  obtain  any  blessing;  or  composed  on  other 
occasions.  The  scope  of  these  hymns  or  mantras  is  well  summed  up 
in  the  following  passage  from  the  AnukramanI  (index)  to  the  Kigveda, 
quoted  by  Colebrooke  (Misc.  Essays,  i.  p.  26) : — Arthepsavah  rishayo 
devatai  chhandolhir  alhyadhavan  |  "  The  rishis,  desiring  [various] 
objects,  hastened  to  the  gods  with  metrical  prayers."  It  is  also  said 
in  theNirukta,  vii.  1 : — Yat-hamah  rishir  yasyam  devatayam  arthapa- 
tyam  ichhan  stutim  prayunkte  tad-devatah,  sa  mantro  hhwoati  \  "  The 
hymn  has  for  its  deity  the  particular  god  to  whom  the  rishi,  seekitig 
to  obtain  any  particular  object  which  he  longs  for,  addresses  his 
praises."  The  compositions  of  one  of  the  rishis,  Paruchhepa,*'*  are 
distinguished  by  the  repetition  of  some  of  the  preceding  words  at  the 
close  of  the  lines.  This  peculiarity  is  thus  noticed  in  the  Nirukta,  x. 
42  : — Ahhyase  hhuyamsam  a/rtham  many  ante  yatha,  "aho  da/rsanlya,  aho 
dar^aniya."  Tat  Pa/ruehhepasya  iilam, :  Paruehhepah  rishih.  "  Some 
consider  that  greater  force  is  added  to  a  sentiment  by  repetition,  as  in 
the  expression,  '0  beautiful,  0  beautiful.'  This  was  Paruchhepa's 
turn  of  mind.  He  was  a  rishi."  Here  Taska,  the  author  of  the 
Mrukta,  speaks  of  a  particular  mode  of  composition  as  peculiar  to 
Paruchhepa,  one  of  the  Vedio  rishis.  But  if  the  form  of  the  com- 
position was  the  result  of  the  rishi's  own  particular  genius  {sllam), 
he  must  have  done  more  than  "see"  the  hymn;  he  must  himself 

of  this  work,  pp.  421,  ff.  Professor  Aufrecht  remarks  (Ind.  Studien,  iv.  8),  that 
"  possibly  only  a  small  portion  of  the  Vedic  poems  may  have  been  preserved  to  us  in 
the  Rik-sanhita." 

253  See  the  third  volume  of  this  work,  p.  212. 


196  DIFFERENCE  IN  AGE  OF  THE 

have  determined  its  particular  form.  The  hymn  could  not  therefore 
have  existed  eternally,^'^  expressed  in  its  present  words.  Taska, 
therefore,  appears  to  be  inconsistent  with  himself,  when  he  states  this 
doctrine  in  other  passages,  as  x.  10,  46,  where  he  says,  risher  drish- 
tarthasya  pritir  akhyana-samyuhta :  "  Here  the  rishi,  after  he  had 
beheld  the  contents  [of  a  hymn],  expresses  his  pleasure  in  narration." 
If,  indeed,  we  are  to  understand  by  the  word  artha,  "contents,"  that 
the  matter  of  the  hymn  only,  without  the  words,  was  revealed,  there 
will  be  no  inconsistency.  See,  in  addition  to  the  passages  quoted  here, 
those  adduced  in  the  third  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  211,  f. 

For  many  ages  the  successive  generations  of  these  ancient  rishis 
continued  to  make  new  contributions  to  the  stock  of  hymns,  while  they 
carefully  preserved  those  which  had  been  handed  down  to  them  by 
their  forefathers.*^    The  fact  of  this  successive  composition  of  the 

''3  See  the  third  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  71,  ff.,  91,  f.,  and  208. 

231  11  Tlie  Indian  Aryas  were  disposed  to  piety,  both  by  their  natural  character  and 
by  the  institutions  of  Manu.  They  were  sustained  in  these  sentiments  by  the  chiefs 
of  certain  families  in  which  their  religious  traditions  had  been  more  especially  pre- 
served. In  those  primitive  ages  the  political  system  was  precisely  the  same  as  that 
which  Homer  depicts ; — kings  the  veritable  shepherds  of  their  people ;  cultivators 
or  herdsmen  united  around  their  chiefs,  and  prepared,  whenever  necessity  arose,  to 
transform  themselves  into  warriors ;  numerous  flocks  and  a  profnsion  of  rural  wealth ; 
towns  which  were  only  large  villages.  Some  of  these  villages  served  as  retreats  to 
renowued  sages,  who,  while  their  dependents  were  tending  their  fields  and  flocks, 
were  themselves  engaged  in  the  cultivation  of  sacred  science,  in  the  company  of  their 
sons,  or  their  pupils,  and  fnlflUed  the  fanotions  of  a  Calchas  or  a  Tiresias  to  some 
Indian  Agamemnon  or  CEdipus  in  their  neighbourhood.  Invited  by  the  chiefs  to 
perform  sacrifice,  they  arrived  with  their  sacred  retinue ;  they  ascended  the  moun- 
tain where  an  inclosure  of  lattice-work  had  been  constructed ;  for  temples  were  then 
unknown.  There,  beneath  the  vault  of  heaven,  they  recited  their  hereditary  songs, 
or  a  newly-composed  hymn ;  they  invoked  the  grand  agents  in  nature  to  grant  success 
to  the  labours  of  the  field,  increase  to  the  flocks,  and  a  succession  of  brave  and 
virtuous  descendants.  They  implored,  they  threatened  their  gods ;  and  when  the 
sacred  rites  had  been  scrupulously  performed,  they  retired  loaded  with  gifts,  carrying 
away  cows,  horses,  and  cars  filled  with  provisions,  gold,  and  precious  stufis.  We  see 
thug  by  what  fortune  these  hymns  have  been  preserved,  forming  as  they  did,  a  patri- 
mony to  certain  families,  a  species  of  productive  capital,  which  it  was  their  interest 
to  turn  to  the  very  best  account.  Composed  on  certain  recognized  and  venerable 
themes,  and  sometimes  retouched  and  renovated  by  the  imagination  of  a  new  bard, 
they  grew  old,  as  they  were  transmitted  from  age  to  age,  bearing  on  them,  sometimes, 
the  date  of  their  composition,  which  was  indicated  by  the  name  of  the  inspired  author, 
or  of  some  generous  prince."  Langlois,  French  translation  of  Rigveda,  vol.  i., 
pref.  pp.  I,  xi.  See  also  Mr.  Whitney's  remarks  in  the  Journal  of  the  Am.  Or. 
Soc,  It.  249. 


HYMNS  OF  THE  EIGVEDA.  197 

hymns  is  evident  from  the  ancient  index  [flimhtmnam)  to  the  Eigveda, 
as  continually  quoted  in  the  commentary  of  Sayana,  which  shows  that 
these  compositions  are  ascribed  to  different  generations  of  the  same 
families,  as  their  "  seers."  For  example,  some  of  the  hymns  of  the 
3rd  mandala  are  assigned  to  Grathin,  the  father  of  Visvamitra,  others  to 
Visvamitra  himself,  others  to  Eishabha,  his  son,  others  again  to  Kata, 
his  descendant,  and  others  to  TJtkila,  of  the  race  of  Kata.  Here  we 
have  the  "seers"  of  hymns  extending  over  five  generations  or  more. 
The  same  fact,  viz.  that  a  long  interval  elapsed  between  the  compo- 
sition of  the  different  hymns,  is  manifest  from  various  passages  in 
these  compositions  themselves.^'  Thus  the  second  verse  of  the  first 
hymn  of  the  1st  mandala  of  the  Eigveda  is  to  the  following  effect ; 
Agnih  purvebhir  rishibhir  idyo  nutanair  uta  \  sa  devAn  a  iha  vakshati  | 
"  Let  Agni,  who  is  to  be  worshipped  by  the  former  rishis,  and  by  the 
recent  ones,  bring  hither  the  gods."'^^  There  are  many  other  verses 
alluding  to  a  difference  of  antiquity  in  the  hymns  and  their  authors. 
Such  are  the  following  (R.V.  i.  48,  14) : — Ye  chid  hi  tvam  rishaydk 
purve  utaye  juhure  |  "  The  former  rishis  who  invoked  thee  for  suc- 
cour," etc.  (E.V.  i.  62, 13)  Sanayate  Gotamah  Indra  navyam  atahshad 
hrahma  ha/ri-yojwnaya  \  "Nodhas,  a  Gotama,  has  fabricated  this  new 
prayer  to  thee,  0  Indra,  who  art  from  of  old,  that  thou  mayest  yoke  thy 
coursers,"  eto.^^'  (E.V.  iii.  32,  13)  Yah  stomebhir  vmridhe  purvyebhir 
yo  madhyamebhir  uta  nutanebUh  \  "  "Who  [Indra]  has  grown  through 
praises,  ancient,  middle,  and  modern."^''     (E.V.  vi.   44,   13)     Yah 

2*5  This  subject  is  more  fiilly  treated  in  the  third  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  217,  ff. 

23S  The  comment  of  Yaska  on  this  passage  (Nirukta  Tii.  16)  is  ss  follows :  Agnir 
yah  purvair  rishibhir  ilitavyo  vandifavyah  asiwbhis  nc^ataraih  sa  devan  iha  avahatv 
iti  I  "  Let  Agni,  who  is  to  be  worshipped,  reverenced,  by  the  former  rishis,  and  by 
us  the  more  modem  ones,  bring  the  gods  hither."  Sayana  annotates  thus  on  the 
passage:  Ayam  Agnih  " purvebhih"  puratanair  Bhrigv-angirah-prabhritibhir 
"Idyah"  stutyo  "nutanair  uta"  idamntanair  asmabhir  api  atutyah  \  "This 
Agni,  who  is  to  be  worshipped,  i.e.  celebrated,  by  the  former,  i.e.  the  ancient  rishis, 
Bhrigu,  Angiras,  and  the  rest,  and  by  the  recent,  i.e.  the  present  [rishis],  ourselves 
also,"  etc. 

231  " Xfimyam"  nutanam  "brahma"  etat  sukta-rupam  stotram  "«o"  asmad- 
artham  " atakshad"  akarot  \  Sayana.  "Fabricated,  i.e.  made  for  us  this  new 
brahma,  i.e.  praise  in  the  form  of  this  sukta."  The  same  verb  taksh  is  also  applied 
to  the  composition  of  hymns  in  R.V.  i.  109,  1 ;  ii.  19,  8;  and  vi.  32,  1. 

23*  Pmratanaih  \  madhye  bhavaih  |  asmabhih  kriyamanair  adhunatanaih  stotraih  | 
"  Praises  ancient,  intermediate,  and  formed  by  ua  at  present."  This  verse  is  referred 
to  by  MUller,  p.  482. 


198  DIFFERENCE  IN  AGE  OF  THE 

purvyabhir'uta  nutanabhir  girhhir  vavridhe  grinatam  risMnam  \  "He 
[Indra]  who  has  grown  by  the  ancient  and  modern  hymns  of  the  rishis 
who  praised  him."  (R.V.  vii.  22,  9)  Ye  cha  purve  rishm/o  ye  cha 
nutnah  Ind/ra  Irakmani  jcmayanta  viprah  \  "  0  Indra,  the  wise  rishis, 
both  ancient  and  modern,  have  generated  prayers."  (R.V.  x.  23,  6) 
Stomam  te  Indra  Vimadah  qjljcman  apurvyam  pwrutwmam  sudanave  \ 
"  The  Vimadas  have  generated,"'  0  Indra,  for  thee,  the  beneficent,  a 
copious  hymn,  before  unheard." 

In  the  Vajasaneyi-sanhita  of  the  Tajurveda  (xviii.  52),  we  meet 
with  the  following  text :  Imau  tu  pakshav  ajmrau  patatrinau  yabhya0i 
rakshamsi  apahamsi  Agne  \  tabhydm  patema  sukritam  u  lokam  yatra 
rishayo jagmuh prafham<ya.h puranah \  "But these undecaying feathered 
pinions,  with  which,  0  Agni,  thou  slayest  the  Eakshases, — with  them 
let  us  ascend  to  the  world  of  the  righteous,  whither  the  earliest-bom 
ancient  rishis  have  gone." '^^  The  writer  of  this  verse  was  himself  a 
rishi,  and  it  is  clear,  according  to  his  statement,  that  long  before  his 
time  other  rishis  had  gone  to  the  regions  of  the  blessed. 

And  in  the  Eigveda  we  find  reference  made  in  numerous  hymns 
to  earlier  rishis  (who  themselves  are  yet  declared  by  later  writers  to 
have  been  authors  of  hymns  included  in  the  same  Veda)  having  been 
delivered  by  the  gods  in  ancient  times.  Thus  Atri,  the  author  of 
several  Vedic  hymns  (37,  38,  39,  40,  43,  85,  and  86,  of  the  5th  man- 
dala),  Kanva,  the  author  of  hymns  37-43  of  the  1st  mandala,  and 
Vasishtha,  the  author  of  the  greater  part  of  the  7th  mandala,  are 
spoken  of  in  several  other  hymns,  e.g.  in  mandala  i.  112,  7,  9,  16; 
i.  117,  3,  8  ;  i.  118,  7,  as  if  they  belonged  to  an  earlier  age. 

The  descendants  of  the  most  celebrated  rishis  would,  no  doubt, 
form  complete  collections  of  the  hymns  which  had  been  composed  by 
their  respective  ancestors.  After  being  thus  handed  down,  with  little 
alteration,  in  the  families  of  the  original  authors  for  several  centuries, 
during  which  many  of  them  were  continually  applied  to  the  purposes 

"'  The  verb  apjcmtm,  "generated,"  as  applied  to  hymns,  also  occurs  in  E.V. 
Tiii.  77,  4,  and  viii.  84,  5.  See  also  Samaveda,  ii.  108,  109,  and  1059,  with  Benfey's 
translation  and  note,  p.  245. 

**"  On  the  last  words  the  commentator  on  v.  68  annotates:  " Frathamajah" 
purvotpannah  \  " pwandh"  pwa  ' pi  nm>ah  ajaramarah  rishayo  yatra  lake  jagmuh\ 
"The  world  whither  the  rishis,  first-born,  i.e.  earliest-produced,  ancient,  i.e.  in 
former  tipies,  also,  young,  imperishable,  and  immortal,  have  gone." 


HYMNS  OP  THE  EIGVEDA.  199 

of  religious  worship,  these  hymns,  which  had  been  gathering  an  ac- 
cumulated sanctity  throughout  all  this  period,  were  at  length  collected 
in  one  great  body  of  sacred  literature,  styled  the  Sanhita  of  the  Kig- 
veda — a  work  which  in  the  Puranas  is  assigned  to  Vedavyasa,  and  one 
of  his  pupils."' 

As  the  process  of  hymn  composition  continued  thus  to  go  on  for 
many  centuries,  it  was  likely  that  the  collection,  when  finally  com- 
pleted, would  contain  many  comparatively  new  hymns,  written  just 
before  the  canon  was  closed.  Even  after  this  latter  event  took  place 
we  find  that  some  hymns  were  composed  which  must  have  had  some 
pretensions  to  a  sacred  character,  as,  though  not  admitted  into  the 
canon  of  the  Eigveda,  they  are  found  copied  as  KhUas  or  later  addi- 
tions, at  the  end  of  some  of  the  sections  in  the  manuscripts  of  that 
work ;  and  some  passages  from  them  are,  as  Professor  Miiller  informs 
me,  inserted  in  the  other  three  Vedas,  and  are  enjoined  by  Asvalayana 
to  be  employed  on  particular  occasions,  in  the  ceremonial  of  sacrifice. 
Whether  or  not  these  Khilas  are  the  oldest  extant  compositions  after 
those  included  in  the  Yedic  collections  (and  their  style  shows  them  not 
to  be  all  so),  they  must  at  least,  from  the  position  which  they  have 
gained  of  the  Vedic  apocrypha,  be  regarded  as  a  link  connecting  the 
-Vedic  hymns  with  the  later  parts  of  Indian  literature. 

The  hymns  in  the  Eik-sanhita  which  bear  the  most  modern  charac- 
ter, and  which  from  their  age  stand  chronologically  nearest  to  the 
Khilas  just  alluded  to,  are  (according  to  Professor  Miiller,  p.  484) 
those  in  which  reference  is  made  to  a  complicated  ceremonial,  to  a 
great  variety  of  priests  with  different  functions  and  appellations,  or  in 
which  the  liberality  of  royal  patrons  to  the  sacerdotal  class  is  the 
theme  of  celebration.  One  composition,  of  which  the  modern  character 
is  acknowledged  by  most  critics,^*^  is  the  so-called  Purusha  Sukta,  the 
90th  hymn  of  the  10th  mandala  (quoted  in  pp.  6-11  of  the  first  volume 

'*!  "  I  suppose  that  at  different  and  unknown  epochs,  on  the  invitation  of  some 
prince,  learned  and  pious  persons  must  have  been  charged  to  collect  the  hymns  com- 
posed for  the  use  of  the  several  sacerdotal  families,  and  to  arrange  them  in  a  certain 
order  consistent  with  the  maintenance  of  the  texts.  When  we  observe  the  spirit 
which  has  directed  these  coUectolB,  we  can  comprehend  how  there  should  be  so  many 
repetitions  both  in  the  ideas  and  the  words.  The  ancient  bards  had  borrowed  from 
each  other  many  thoughts  which  the  compilers  of  different  eras  have  scrupulously 
reproduced."    Langlois,  French  translation  of  Eigveda,  vol.  i.,  pref.  p.  xiii. 

^^  Prof.  Eaug  is  an  exception.    See  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  p.  11. 


200        THE  VARIOUS  STAGES  OP  SANSKRIT  LITERATURE. 

of  this  work),  whicli  Mr.  Colebroote"'  characterizes  in  the  following 
terms: — 

"That  remarkable  hymn  is  in  language,  metre,  and  style,  very 
different  from  the  rest  of  the  prayers  with  which  it  is  associated.  It 
has  a  decidedly  more  modern  tone ;  and  must  have  been  composed  after 
the  Sanskrit  language  had  been  refined,  and  its  grammar  and  rhythm 
perfected.  The  internal  evidence  which  it  furnishes,  serves  to  demon- 
strate the  important  fact  that  the  compilation  of  the  Vedas,  in  their 
present  arrangement,  took  place  after  the  Sanskrit  tongue  had  ad- 
vanced from  the  rustic  and  irregular  dialect  in  which  the  multitude 
of  hymns  and  prayers  of  the  Yedas  was  composed,  to  the  polished  and 
sonorous  language  in  which  the  mythological. poems,  sacred  and  pro- 
fane i^pwams  and  odvyas),  have  been  written."  (See  also  the  remarks 
made  on  this  hymn  by  Prof.  Miiller,  Anc.  Sansk.  Lit.  p.  571.)  The 
last-named  author  thinks  it  is  a  mistake  to  regard  any  hymn  as  modern, 
merely  from  the  presence  in  it  of  philosophical  ideas.  But  I  must 
refer  to  his  own  work,  pp.  556,  ff.,  for  a  statement  of  his  views  on  this 
point. 

The  sketch  which  I  have  now  given  of  Sanskrit  literature  shows 
that  we  can  trace  it  back,  by  a  series  of  almost  continuous  links  up  to 
the  period  of  its  rise."*  If  the  Vedic  hymns  cannot  be  connected  im- 
mediately with  the  literature  which  follows  next  after  them,  they  are 
at  least  separated  from  it  by  no  very  distant  interval ;  and  they  are 
evidently  the  natural  product  of  the  same  fertile  Indian  mind  which 
afterwards  gave  birth  to  the  Brahmanas,  the  TJpanishads,  the  Darlanas, 
and  the  different  epic  and  mythological  poems. 

.  In  the  Eigveda  we  possess,  as  has  been  already  remarked,  a  collec- 
tion of  hymns  which  were  composed  during  many  successive  genera- 
tions, but  its  most  ancient  portions  constitute  the  earliest  of  all  the 
extant  remains  of  Indian  authorship,  and  not  only  display  to  us  the 
Sanskrit  language  in  the  oldest  phase  in  which  we  can  ever  see  it 

2"  Misc.  Ess.,  i.  309,  note. 

^^  It  may,  perhaps,  be  thought  that  this  suhject  has  been  treated  at  a  length  dis- 
proportioned  to  the  purpose  which  I  have  immediately  in  view,  viz.,  to  trace  the 
mutations  of  the  Sanskrit  language.  But  a  full  exhibition  of  the  character  and 
antiquity  of  the  Yedic  hymns,  and  of  the  relation  in  which  they  stand  to  the  other 
parts  of  Indian  literature,  will  be  found  to  form  a  necessary  basis  for  various  other 
discussions  which  will  appear  in  the  sequel  of  this  work,  and  I  have  deemed  the 
nmunt:  a  nnnvfiiiifint  oDDortunltv  fop  its  introduction. 


DIPFEEENCE  OP  VEDIC  AND  OTHER  INDIAN  MYTHOLOGY.     201 

exhibited,  but  also  afford  us  some  of  the  most  authentic  materials 
■which  -we  can  ever  obtain  for  our  researches  into  the  earliest  history, 
religious  and  political,  of  the  Indian  people,  and  into  their  pre-histori- 
cal  relations  with  the  other  branches  of  the  Indo-European  family. 

Fifth : — If  any  further  proof  be  ■wanted  of  the  greater  antiquity  of 
the  Vedio  hymns,  as  compared  -with  the  other  books  esteemed  more  or 
less  sacred  by  the  Hindus,  as,  for  instance,  the  epic  poems  and  the 
Puranas,  it  may  be  found  in  the  great  difference  bet'ween  the  mytho- 
logical systems  ■which  are  discoverable  in  these  t'wo  classes  of  -works 
respectively.  As  I  return  to  this  subject  in  another  volume  of  this 
work  (the  fourth),  I  may  content  myself  with  a  very  summary  notice, 
of  it  at  present.  The  following  extracts  from  Professor  H.  H.  Wilson's 
introduction  to  the  first  volume  of  his  translation  of  the  Kigveda, 
pp.  xxiv,  xxvii,  wiU  give  some  idea  of  the  difference  to  which  I 
aUude : — 

"  The  next  question  is,  who  are  the  gods  to  whom  the  praises  and 
prayers  [in  the  Eigveda]  are  addressed?  And  here  we  find  also 
a  striking  difference  between  the  mythology  of  the  Eigveda  and  that 
of  the  heroic  poems  and  Puranas.  The  divinities  worshipped  are  not 
unknown  to  later  systems,  but  they  there  perform  very  subordinate 
parts,  whilst  those  deities  who  are  the  great  gods — the  Bii  majorm — of 
the  subsequent  period,  are  either  wholly  unnamed  in  the  Veda,  or  are 
noticed  in  an  inferior  and  different  capacity.  The  names  of  S'rvA,  of 
Mahadbva,  of  DuE&A,  of  EalI,  of  Eama,  of  KEisHjf A,  never  occur,  as  far 
as  we  are  yet  aware;  we  have  a  Eudea,  who,  in  after  times,  is  identified 
with  StvA,  but  who,  even  in  the  Puranas,  is  of  very  doubtful  origin 
and  identification,  whilst  in  the  Veda  he  is  described  as  the  father  of 
the  winds,  and  is  evidently  a  form  of  either  Asm  or  Indba;  the 
epithet  Kapabbdin,"^  which  is  applied  to  him,  appears,  indeed,  to  have 
some  relation  to  a  characteristic  attribute  of  S'iva, — the  wearing  of  his 
hair  in  a  peculiar  braid ;  but  the  term  has  probably  in  the  Veda  a 

345  [This  epithet  occurs  in  the  following  passage,  verse  i.  of  Sukta  114,  Mandala 
1st : — Iniah  Bud/raya  ta/vase  leapardine  kshayadviraya  prabharamahe  matih  |  yathid 
a'am  asad  dvipade  ohatushpade  viham  pushtam  grime  asminn  anaturam  |  i.e.  "  We 
offer  these  praises  to  the  strong  Eudra,  with  the  braided  hair,  the  destroyer  of  heroes, 
in  order  that  health  may  be  enjoyed  by  bipeds  and  quadrupeds,  and  that  all  beings 
in  this  -village  may  be  well  nourished,  and  exempt  from  disease."  The  same  epithet 
kapardin  is  also  applied  to  Pushau  in  R.V.  vi.  55,  2,  and  ix.  67,  1 1.  See  the  fifth 
volume  of  this  work,  pp.  177  and  462. — J.M.] 

VOL,  u.  14 


202  AGNI  CALLED  EUDRA,  BHAYA,  S'AEVA,  etc. 

different  signification  —  one  now  forgotten,— alttough  it  may  have 
suggested  in  aftertime  the  appearance  of  S'iva  in  such  a  head-dress, 
as  identified  with  Agni;  for  instance,  Kapaeddin  may  intimate  his 
head  being  surrounded  by  radiating  flame,  or  the  word  may  be  an  in- 
terpolation ;  at  any  rate,  no  other  epithet  applicable  to  S'rvA  occurs, 
and  there  is  not  the  slightest  allusion  to  the  form  in  which,  for  the  last 
ten  centuries  at  least,  he  seems  to  have  been  almost  exclusively  wor- 
shipped in  India — that  of  the  Linga  or  Phallus ;  neither  is  there  the 
slightest  hint  of  another  important  feature  of  later  Hinduism,  the 
Trimurtti,  or  Tri-une  combination  of  BkahmI,  Vishntj,  and  SivA,  as 
typified  by  the  mystical  syllable  Om,  although,  according  to  high 
authority  on  the  religions  of  antiquity,  the  Trimurtti  was  the  first 
element  in  the  faith  of  the  Hindus,  and  the  second  was  the  Lingam. 
— Creuzer,  'Eeligions  de  I'Antiquite,'  book  i.  chap.  i.  p.  140." 

Even  so  late  as  the  time  when  the  S'atapatha-brahmana  was  com- 
posed, the  names  afterwards  appropriated  to  Mahadeva  were  applied  to 
Agni,  as  appears  from  the  following  passage,  i.  7,  3,  8,  p.  70  : — Agnir 
vai  devah  |  tasya  etani  namani  "  S'arvah  "  iti  yathd  PrachySh  aehdkshate 
" Bhavah"  iti yatha  Bahihah  " Faiunam  patih"  " Rudrah"  "Agnir" 
iti  I  tany  asya  aiantany  eva  itardni  namani  \  "  Agnir  "  ity  eva  iantata- 
man  \  "  Agni  is  a  god.  These  are  his  names,  viz.,  '  S'arva,'  as  the 
eastern  people  call  him;  'Bhava,'  as  the  Bahikas ;  'Pasunam  pati,' 
'the  lord  of  animals';  'Eudra;'  and  'Agni.'  These  others  are  his 
ill-omened  names.  Agni  is  his  mildest  appellation,"  (See  "Weber's 
Indische  Studien,  i.  189,  ii.  19-22,  37,  302;  the  S'atapatha-brahmana, 
vi.  1,  3,  10-17,  ix.  1,  1,  1,  2,  quoted  in  pp.  283,  ff.  and  289,  f.,  of  the 
fourth  volume  of  this  work;  and  Jour.  Am.  Or.  Soc.  iii.  319.)"" 

2'6  I  add  here  some  passages  not  adduced  in  my  fonrtli  volume.  The  Taittiriya 
Sanhita,  i.  6,  1,  1,  has  the  following  "akhyayika"  (little  story) :  Devasurah  sam- 
yuttah  asan  |  te  devah  mjayam  vpayanto  'gnau  mmam  vasu  sannyadadAata  "  idem 
li  no  bJuwishyati  yadi  mjeshyanti"  iti  \  tad  Agnir  nyakamayata  |  tena  apairamat  \ 
tad  dmah  vijitya  avarurutsamanah  amvayan  |  tad  asya  sahasa  aditsanta  |  so  'rodtt  | 
yad  arodtt  tad  Sudrasya  rudratvam  \  "  The  Gods  and  Asuras  contended.  The 
Gods  on  the  eve  of  gaining  a  victory,  deposited  their  desirable  property  with  Agni, 
in  order  that,  as  they  said,  they  might  retain  it  in  case  their  enemies  should  van- 
quish them.  Agni  coveted  this  property,  and  ahscotided  with  it.  Then  the  gods, 
having  conquered  their  enemies,  desired  to  recover  their  property,  foEowed  Agni, 
and  sought  to  tale  it  from  him  hy  force.  He  wept.  From  the  fact  that '  he  wept ' 
(arodit,  from  the  root  rud),  he  derives  his  name  and  character  of '  Eudra.'  "  In  the 
same  Sanhita,  hook  v.,  p.  466  of  India  Office  MS.,  we  find  the  words :  Budro  vai  esha 


THE,  VEDTC  VISHNTT.  203 

Again,  in  p.  xxxiv.  of  his  Introduction,  Professor  "Wilson  says,  in 
regard  to  Tishnu ; — "  There  is  no  separate  hymn  to  VishaUj  but  he  is 
mentioned  as  Trivikrama,  or  he  who  took  three  steps  or  paces,  which 
Colebrooke  thought  might  have  formed  the  groundwork  of  the 
Pauranik  legend  of  the  dwarf  Avatar.  It  may  have  been  suggestive 
of  the  fiction  j  but  no  allusion  to  the  notion  of  Avatars  occurs  in  the 
Veda,  and  there  can  be  little  doubt  that  the  three  steps  here  referred 
to  are  the  three  periods  of  the  sun's  course — his  rise,  culmination,  and 
setting."  ^''  The  passage  here  alluded  to  by  Professor  "Wilson  is  as 
follows:  Eigveda  i.  22,  16-21 : — (16)  Ato  devdh  avantu  no  yato  Vishmr 
viohakrmm  |  prithivyah,  sapta  dhamahhih^^  \  (17)  Mam  Vishmr  vieha- 
hrame  tredhd  nidadhe  padam  \  samulham  asya  pdmsure  \  (18)  Trlni padd 
vichahrame  Vishnv/r  gopdh  addhhyah  \  ato  dliarmdni  dhdraywn  \  (19) 
Vishnoh  limrmdni  paiyata  yato  watdni  paspase  \  Indrasya  ywjyah  sahhd  \ 
(20)  Tad  Vishnoh  paramam  padam  sadd  pasyanti  surayah  \  dinva  ohak- 
shur  dtatam  \  (21)  Tad  viprdso  vipanyavo  j'dgrivdmsah  samindhate  \  Vish- 
nor  yat  paramam  padam  \ 

"  (16)  May  the  gods  preserve  us  from  that  (place)  whence  Yishnu 
strode  across  the  seven  regions  of  the  earth  [or,  according  to  the 
Samaveda,  over  the  surface  of  the  earth].  (17)  Yishnu  traversed 
this  (universe) :  in  three  places,  he  planted  his  foot,  and  [the  world] 
was  enveloped  in  his  dust.  (18)  Yishnu,,  the  preserver,  the  unin- 
surable, stepped  three  steps,  upholding  thereby  fixed  ordinances.  (19) 
Behold  the  deeds  of  Yishnu,  through  which  this  intimate  friend  of 
Indra  has  perceived  the  established  laws.  (20)  The  wise  ever  con- 
template that  supreme  station  of  Yishnu,  placed  like  an  eye  in  the 
sky.  (21)  The  wise,  ever  vigilant  and  ofiering  praise,  kindle  that 
which  is  the  feupreme  station  of  Yishnu." — (See  "Wilson's  translation, 
pp.  63,  54 ;  Benfey's  translation  of  the  Samaveda,  pp.  223  and  287 ; 
his  Glossary,  p.  191,  under  the  word  sapta,  and  his  translation  of  the 

yad  Agnih  \  "  This  Agni  is  Eudra."  And  in  v.  6,  7,  3  :  Sudro  vai  esha  yad  Agnih  \ 
sa  yatha  vyaghrah  Jcruddhas  Ushtliaty  ma  vai  esha\  tarhi  sachitam  etair  upati- 
sMhate  namaskarair  eva  tarn  samayati  \  "  This  Agni  is  Eudra.  He  stands  enraged 
like  a  tiger.  Then  he  approaches  him  when  kindled,  and  quiets  him  with  these 
prostrations." 

247  "  It  is  expressly  so  stated  by  Durgacharya,  in  his  commentary  on  the  Nirukta. 
See  Burnouf,  Introduction  to  the  third  volume  of  the  Bhagavata  Purana,  p.  rm." 

"8  Instead  of  sapta  dhamabhis,  the  Samaveda,  ii.  1024,  reads  adhi  sanavi,. "  over 
the  surface." 


204  VEDIC  CONCEPTION  OP  VISHNU. 

R.V.  in  Orient  und  Occident,  p.  30 :  see,  also,  the  fourth  volume  of 
thiswork,  pp.  54,  ff.)'« 

The  remarks  of  Yaska  on  this  passage  have  been  already  quoted 
above  (p.  176).  The  following  is  the  note  of  the  commentator, 
Durgacharya,  on  Taska's  explanation  of  the  above  passage  of  the 
Eigveda  (see  above,  note  247,  p.  203)  -.—  Vishmr  adityal/,  \  katham  iti  | 
yatahaJm  "tredha  nidadU  padam^^  nidhatte  padam  nidhanam padaih[?^  | 
Sva  tatra  tavat  \  "prithivydm  antarihhe  divi"  iti  S'akapunih  \  par- 
thivo  ^gnvr  hhutva  " prithivyam"  yat  kinchid  atti  tad  vikramate  tad 
adhitiahthati  "antarikshe"  vaidyutatmana  "divi"  suryatmana\  yad 
uktam  "tarn  u  akrinvan  tredha  hhuve  kam"  (R.V.  x.  88,  10)  | 
"  Samarohane  udayagirav  udyan  padam  ekam  nidhatte  vishnupade  ma- 
dhyandine  antarikshe  gayaUraay  astangirav  "  ity  Awna/oabhah  achdryo 


"Vishnu  is  the  Sun.  How?  Because  he  says,  'thrice  he  planted 
his  foot'  Where  did  he  do  so  ?  *  On  the  earth,  in  the  firmament, 
and  in  the  heaven,'  says  S'akapuni.  Becoming  terrestrial  fire,  he 
paces  or  resides  a  little  upon  the  earth,  in  the  shape  of  lightning  in  the 
firmament,  and  in  the  form  of  the  sun  in  heaven.  As  it  is  said,  '  they 
made  him  to  exist  in  a  threefold  form'  (E.V.  x.  88,  10),  Aurnavabha 
Acharya  thinks  the  meaning  is,  '  He  plants  one  step  on  the  '  Samaro- 
hana '  (point  of  ascension),  when  rising  over  the  eastern  mountain, 
(another)  at  noon  on  the  Vishnupada,  the  meridian  sky,  (a  third)  on 
Gaya^iras,  when  setting  beneath  the  western  hill.'  " 

Any  one  who  has  the  slightest  acquaintance  with  the  later  Hindu 
mythology  wiU  perceive  at  once  how  different  these  Vedic  repre- 
sentations are  from  the  Puranic  accounts  of  S'iva  and  Vishnu.'^" 
Such  changes  as  these,  in  the  conception  of  the  gods,  niust  have  been 
the  work  of  time.  Here,  therefore,  we  have  another  proof  of  the 
antiquity  of  the  Vedio  hymns  as  compared  with  the  other  portions  of 
Indian  literature. 

219  Under  the  word  dJimritum,  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth  quote  Valakhilya  it.  3,  where 
it  is  said,  Yasmai  Yishma  trini  pada  viehakrame  upa  mitrasya  dharmabhih\ 
"  For  whom  (for  Indra)  Vishnu  strode  three  paces  in  the  quality  of  a  friend,  or 
according  to  the  custom  of  a  friend."  The  explanation  of  the  last  words  of  the  line 
are  from  B.  and  E. 

260  The  modifications  which  have  taken  place  in  the  conceptions  of  these  two  deities 
are  fully  exhihited  in  the  fourth  volume  of  this  work,  to  which  I  refer  for  further 
particulars. 


VEDIC  AND  LATER  GRAMMATICAL  FORMS.  205 

Sixth :  Another  proof  of  the  greater  antiquity  of  the  Vedio  hymns 
as  compared  with  the  later  S^stras  may  be  found  in  the  fact  that  the 
former  represent  to  us  a  considerable  difference  in  the  religious  in- 
stitutions of  the  Indian  people  at  the  time  when  they  were  composed 
as  compared  with  the  usages  of  later  periods.  For  information  on 
this  subject  I  may  refer  to  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  passim. 

Seventh :  How  different  the  Sanskrit  of  the  Vedic  age  was  in  many 
of  its  forms  from  those  which  the  later  Sanskrit  assumed,  and  still  re- 
tains, may  be  seen  from  the  subjoiaed  specimens  taken  from  the  Eigveda : 

Eigveda,  i.  2,  1,  with  modern  Sanskrit  iaterpretation  underneath  : 
VErao  (     y&yC'V  ayahi  darsata  ime  somah  aran-     "1     "  Come,  0  Vayu,  these 
Text.  |      krifah  \  teakdm  pahi  Srtldhi  havam  |       i    somaB    are   prepared."" 
Mod    (    ^«y<M'  ayahi  darsaniya  ime  somah  alan-  (  ^"^^  °^  J^^^  '>  ^^^^ 
Sans.  |      hritah  \  teshdm  piba  irinu  havam  \       J 

Here  it  will  be  observed  that  four  Vedic  words,  dariata,  arankritah, 
pahi,  irudhi,  dififer  from  the  modern  Sanskrit  forms. 

Eigveda,  i.  3,  7  : 

Vedic  (  Omasak  charshanldhrito  vi^ve  devasah 
Text.  |    affata  \  daivamao  dasushah  sutam  \ 

I  Omah  [rahshak&Kl    charshanidhrito 
g^'  I    visvedevah  agaohehhata  \  dataro  da- 


\    tuh  sutam  I 


"  0  VUve  deyas,  preservers  of 
men,  bestowers  [of  rewards], 
come  to  the  libation  of  him 
who  gives  you  [oblations]. 


Here  the  Vedic  forms  omdsah,  devasah,  and  agaia,  stand  for  omdh, 
devdh,  and  agaohehhata. 

Eigveda,  vii.  33,  5  : 
Vedic  /  Vasishthasya  stv/vatah  Indro  akrod  ttrurn  "1     "Indra  heard  Vasishtha 
Text.  \  tritsulhyo  okrinod  u  loham  \ 
Mod.  /  Vasishthasya  stuvatah  Indro   asrinod 
Sans.  \  urum  tritsulhyo  akarod  u  loham  \ 


when  he  uttered  praise,  and 
>  opened  up  a  wide  space  to 
the  Tritsus."  (See  vol.  i. 
p.  320.) 


Here  we  have  the  Vedio  forms  airot  and  akrinot,  for  the  modem 
asrinot  and  akarot. 

2W  Prof.  Anfrecht  suggests  that  the  word  alcmkrita  has  not  the  sense  of  "  pre- 
pared" in  later  Sanskrit;  that  the  construction  teaham  piba  would  be  improper 
there ;  and  that  charshanidhrit  would  not  be  understood  in  modern  times. 


206  PANINI  ON  VEDIC  FORMS. 

This  fact  of  the  frequent  diversity  between  the  Vedio  and  ordinary 
Sanskrit  is  recognized  in  every  page  of  his  work  by  the  great  gramma- 
nan  Pagini.  I  will  quote  one  of  the  Sutras,  in  -which  he  refers  to  some 
instances  of  this,  together  with  the  illustrations  given  in  the  Varttika 
(vii.  2,  64): — Babhutha  dtatcmtha  jagribhma  vavartha  iU  nigame  \\ 
ity  etani  vede  nipatymte  \  IM  \  "hota  prathamo  bahhutha"  |  "hahhu- 
vitha"  iti  lohe  \  tanu  |  " yena  antwriksham  uru  aiatantha"  \  "  dtenUha'' 
itilolte  I  graha  \  "Jagribhma  te  dahhinam  Indra  hastam"  \  "jagrihi- 
ma"  iti  lohe  \  vrin  \  "vavartha  tvam  hi  jyotisha  "  \  "  vma/ritha"  iti  loke\ 
"The  exceptional  forms  babhutha,  atataniha,  jagribhma  and  vavartha 
are  employed  in  the  Veda  instead  of  the  ordinary  forms,  babhuvitha, 
dtenitha,  jagrihima,  and  vavaritha ;  as  in  the  texts,  '  thou  wast  the 
first  priest,'  'whereby  thou  didst  stretch  out  the  wide  firmament,'  'we 
have  seized,  0  Indra,  thy  right  hand,'  'thou  didst  envelope  with 
light.'  " 

In  Sutra  vi.  4,  102,  other  instances  are  alluded  to  of  grammatical 
forms  which  are  peculiar  to  the  Veda,  viz.,  the  imperatives  irudhi  for 
irinu,  '  hear ';  kridhi  for  kuru,  '  do ' ;  vridhi  for  vrim,  '  cover ';  purdhi 
tor prinihi,  'fill.' 

In  the  Vivarana  of  Nagesa  Bhatta  on  the  Mahabhashya,  the  follow- 
ing reference  is  made  to  certain  forms  which  are  employed  in  the  Veda 
only :  M^am  cha  veda-matrdntargata-"  karnebMr-devdso-gribhndmi"-ity- 
ddy  -  atirikia  - paratd  laukika-saMasya  tait  tad-vya/vahdrddariandt  1 
"  The  term  'secular'  {lauhika)  refers  to  words  different  from  such  as 
Iiarnebhih  (for  karnaih),  devdsalj,  (for  devdh),  and  grilhndmi  (for 
grihndmi),  which  are  to  be  found  in  the  Veda  alone,  for  we  never 
see  them  employed  by  secular  people." 

Neuter  plurals  in  I  and  d  are  also  of  frequent  occurrence  in  the 
Vedic  hymns,  as  tri  and  purnd  for  trini  and  purndni.  So  too  the 
final  i  in  nouns  ending  in  n,  is  often  left  out  in  the  locative,  as  in 
ajman,  adhvan,  karman,  eharman,  j'anman,  dhanvan,  iarman,  vyoman, 
for  ajmani,  adhvani,  etc.  So  also  d  is  substituted  for  au  in  the  nom. 
and  aocus.  dual,  as  in  ya  surathd  for  yau  swathau,  etc. 

In  nouns  in  i  the  instrumental  singular  is  often  formed  by  i,  instead  of 
yd,  as  iaktl  for  iaktyd,  and  the  locative  by  d  instead  of  au,  as  nabhd  for 
ndbhau.  Nouns  in  u  frequently  form  the  instrumental  case  in  vd 
instead  of  und,  as  kratvd,  madhvd,  iarvd,  for  kratund,  etc. ;  the  dative 


SPECIMENS  OF  FORMS  PECULIAE  TO  THE  HYMNS.         207 

in  ve,  instead  of  ave,  as  hratve,  Usroe,  for  Jcratave,  etc. ;  the  genitive 
in  vah  for  oh  or  unah,  as  pasvah  for  pahh,  madhvah  and  vasvah  for 
madhunah,  etc. ;  and  th.e  locative  in  avi  instead  of  au,  as  ana/vi,  trasada- 
syavi,  dmyami,  druhymi,  sdnavi,  for  anau,  etc.  "Words  in  i  make  in 
the  nominative  singular  ih  instead  of  i,  as  adv/rmangallh,  krishmh, 
gandha/rvih,  kalyamh,  for  adurmangall,  etc.  In  adjectives  the  form 
yas  is  frequently  substituted  for  lyas,  as  in  ahanyas,  navyas,  rabhyas, 
vasyas,  sahyas,  for  'dhanlyas,  etc.  The  second  personal  pronoun  some- 
times takes  in  the  instr.  sing,  the  form  tva  instead  of  tvaya,  and  in 
the  loo.  l/oe  for  tvayi.  According  to  Taska  (Nir.  vi.  7),  the  plural  form 
asme  of  the  first  personal  pronoun  can  be  used  in  all  the  seven  cases. 
The  dem.  pronoun  idam  makes  in  the  instr.  sing.  m.  and  n.  ena,  f.  aya, 
for  anena  and  anayd,  and  along  with  Mm  we  find  also  kad.  The  two 
words,  »ato,  "never,"  "no  one,"  a,ui  maMs,  " let  not,"  and  " let  no 
one,"  are  peculiar  to  the  hymns,  as  are  also  the  adverbs  kuha,'^^ 
"where?"  hatha,  "how?"  "whence?"  and  the  preposition  sadha 
for  saha,  "with,"  in  the  words  sadJiastha,  sadhama,  sadhamada,  and 
sadhastuti.  The  form  tman  for  atman,  "self,"  is  found  almost  ex- 
clusively in  the  hymns.  Na  in  the  hymns  has  frequently  the  sense 
of  "as,"  as  well  as  of  "not"  (see  Nir.  i.  4,  quoted  above,  p.  151). 

To  the  conjugational  forms  specified  above  as  found  in  the  Vedic 
hymns,  but  not  in  later  Sanskrit,  may  be  added  the  following,  viz., 
smasi,  imasi,  grimmasi,  bhardmasi,  vaddmasi,  uimasi,  nasaydmasi,  etc., 
for  smah  or  smas,  etc.  The  past  participle  in  tvd  takes  also  the  forms 
tvi,  and  tvdya,  as  in  hatvi,  pltvl;  Icritvl,  kritvdga;  gatvi,  gatvdya;  drish- 
tvaya,  etc.  In  the  infinitive,  besides  the  form  in  turn,  we  frequently 
meet  with  the  forms  tave,  tmai,  toh  (or  toa),  and  adhyai,  as  etave, 
etavai,  etoh;  Jeartave,  Itwrtmai,  kartoh;  gantme,  gantavai,  gamadhyai; 
dhatme  and  dhiy adhyai;  Ihwrtave,  apahhartavm,  Iharadhyai  (R.V.  vi. 
66,  3);  hmitmai,  jlvitavai,  prinadhyai,  paritamsayadhyai;  and  an  in- 
finitive form  dyai,  "to  come,"  is  found  in  E.Y.  ii.  18,  3.  So  also 
jivaae  '*'  and  ohakshase  are  used  in  the  sense  of  the  infinitive,  as  are  also 
drise  and  vishkahhe  (R.V.  viii.  89,  12),  and  vidmane  (E.V.  i.  164,  6). 

252  As  we  have  seen  above,  p.  91,  huhim  and  kuham  are  employed  in  Pali,  and 
hahim  in  the  Gratha  dialect,  and  in  Prakrit,  for  "  where  ?  " 

253  This  word  is  also  used  in  the  same  way  in  the  Mahabharata,  i.  732,  as  quoted 
in  B.  and  B's.  Lexicon,  a.v. 


208         GRAMMATICAL  POEMS  PECULIAR  TO  THE  HYMNS. 

So  too  the  hymns  have  some  moods  called  by  grammarians  let,  ■which, 
according  to  Prof.  "Wilson  (Grammar,  2nd  ed.,  p.  463),  have  all  the  signi- 
fications of  the  potential  and  imperative,  as  well  as  of  the  conditional 
and  impersonal.  Such  are  the  iotms,  patati,  "may  it  fall,"  dvahasi, 
"  mayest  thou  hiing,"  j'wdti,  vardhdn,  ffaj'dti,  pachati,  vanati,  hravdma; 
asat,  "it  must  he,"  Ihwvat,  sunmiat,  driiat,  irimvat,  iravat,  ninddt, 
ninitsdt,  yiydtai,  prinaithe.  In  some  verbs,  the  syllable  na  is  added 
to  the  second  person  plural  imperative,  as  pipartana,' vwaktana,  tiretana, 
diduhtana,  etc.  The  pass.  fut.  participle  in  tmya  appears  in  some  verbs 
in  the  form  tva,  as  in  hartva,  jantva,  and  sotva  (E.V.  x.  160,  2). 

The  following  are  some  of  the  variations  exhibited  in  the  conjugation 
of  different  verbs  of  common  occurrence  ;  av  makes  aviddhi  instead  of 
ava  in  the  imperative;  hri,  "to  make,"  takes  in  the  present  harsM, 
karasi,  and  hrinoshi,  for  haroshi;  akwr,  akarah,  and  akrinoh  for  akarol^; 
ahran  and  akrinvan  for  akurvan ;  akrvnuta  and  akrinotam  for  aku/ruta ; 
kridhi,  kwra,  krinu  and  krinuM  for  kv/ru,  etc.;  gwm,  "to  go,"  takes  the 
iorms,  gamaU,  ganti,  jagamti,  in  place  otgaehhati;  gameyam,  anijagam- 
ydm,  tot  gachoheyam;  agamy dt  for  dgaehhet;  dgatha  for  agachhatha;  agon 
and  gan  for  agaehhat;  aganma  for  agaehhdma;  agman  and  gman  for 
agaehhan  ;  dgahi  and  dgantu  for  dgachha  and  dgaohhatu  ;  ganta  and  gan- 
iana  for  gaohhata.  In  the  reduplicated  perfect  the  root  tyaj  becomes 
titydja,  instead  of  tatydja ;  in  the  aorist  tan  makes  atan  for  aidnlt. 
Dris  makes  adrak  for  adrdkshlt,  and  has  drikyam  where  later  Sanskrit 
has  pasyeyam ;  adrUran  for  wpaiyan ;  dadrUre  for  dadrUire,  etc. 
The  root  tar  frequently  becomes  tir  when  prepositions  are  prefixed,  as 
in  dtirat,  pratira,  vitiranti.  Duh  makes  aduhra,  instead  of  aduhata, 
"they  milked."  Bhd,  "to  hold,"  makes  dhita,  instead  of  Mta  (though 
an  instance  of  the  same  archaic  form  in  the  Harivam^a  7799  is  cited 
by  B.  and  E.,  as  is  also  dhitvd  in  the  S'atap.  Br.).  JDah,  "  to  hum," 
makes  in  the  aorist  adhdk  and  dhdk,  instead  of  adhdkshtt.  Da,  "to 
give,"  makes  dati  and  ddtu  for  daddti  and  daddfu,  and  daddhi  for  deM. 
The  root  bhu  has  in  the  imperative  bhiltu  for  hhmatu;  and  Ihri,  to 
"nourish,"  or  "carry,"  makes  in  the  reduplicated  perfect  yaiAara, 
instead  of  hahhdra.  Much,  "  to  free,"  makes  mumugdhi  and  mumoktu, 
instead  of  mimcha  and  munchatu.  Yam,  "to  hold,"  "to  give," 
makes  yamati,  yamsi,  yandhi,  yanta,  for  yachhati,  yaohhasi,  yaehha, 
yaohhata.      Frit  takes  the  forms  avart  +  a  =  dvari,   etc.,   instead 


GRAMMATICAL  FORMS  PECULIAR  TO  THE  HYMNS.         209 

of  avarttata  (E.V.  vii.  59,  4),  avwoarttati  for  the  intensive  (E.V. 
viii.  77,  4).  Vid  makes  vid/re  (E.V.  Til.  56,  2)  for  viduh  (?), 
and  vivid^hi  for  viddM  (?).  S'ru,  "to  hear,"  makes  in  the  im- 
perative (besides  srudhi,  the  form  given  above)  irinuhi,  Mmdhi,  for 
irinu;  and  Srinota  and  irota  (E.Y.  v.  87,  8)  for  srinuta.  Spardh,  "to 
vie,"  makes  paspridhre  for  paspridhire.  Su,  "to  invoke,"  makes 
j'uhure  for  juhmire.  In  E.Y.  x.  125,  4,  a  form  iraddhivam  "deserving 
belief,"  is  found,  which  appears  to  be  peculiar  to  the  E.V.  (In  the 
Atharvaveda  iv.  30,  4,  ^raddheyam  is  substituted  for  it.)  In  future 
participles  the  E.V.  frequently  substitutes  enya  for  anlya,  as  in  idenya, 
kirtenya,  drisenya,  yudhmya,  varenya,  for  Idaniya,  etc.  Other  forms 
peculiar  to  the  Veda  are  grihhayati  (as  well  as  gribhndti),  dabhdyati, 
mathdyati,  mushdyati,  stabhdyati,  for  grihnati,  etc. ;  and  so  also  are 
such  forms  derived  from  the  perfect  tense,  as  jakshiydt  from  ghas, 
papatydt,  papiydt,  mamanydt;  and  the  curtailed  forms  of  the  first 
person  of  the  imperative,  as  niraya  (E.V.,  iv.  18,  2),  praohara  (viii. 
47,  6),  d,ndi  prahravd  (x.  39,  5),  for  niraydni,  etc. 

Other  Vedic  peculiarities  are  («)  the  manner  in  which  adjectives  are 
employed,  like  the  verbs  with  which  they  are  connected,  to  govern 
an  accusative,  as  in  the  oases  yam  yajnam  paribkur  ad,  "the  sacrifice 
which  thou  encompassest "  (E.V.,  i.  1,  4):  vihi  chid  drujatnulMh, 
"who  break  down  even  what  is  firm"  (i.  6,  5) ;  td  somam  somapdtamd  \ 
"they  are  great  drinkers  of  soma"  (i.  21,  1);  chalcrir  yo  viivd  \  "who 
made  all  things"  (iii.  16,  4)  j  hdbhrir  vajram  papih  somam  dadir  gdh  \ 
"who  holds  the  thxmderbolt,  drinks  soma,  and  gives  cows  "  (vi.  23,  4); 
dadih  reknas  tame  dadir  vasu,  "  giving  property,  giving  wealth  to  the 
poor"  (viii.  46,  15;  ii.  14,  1 ;  vi.  72,  3)  :  (J)  compounds  formed  with 
present  participles,  as  dbharad-vasu,  ridhad-ri,  dhdrayat-lcam,  kshayad- 
vlra,  kramayat-mlthd :  and  (c)  the  separation  of  prepositions  from  verbs, 
which  so  frequently  occurs,  as  in  the  cases  upa  tvd  emasi \  "we 
approach  thee  "  (i.  1,  7) ;  gamad vajebMr  a  sa  nah  \  "  let  him  come  to 
us  with  riches"  (i.  5,  3);  d  tvd  viiantu  diavah  somdsah  \  "may  the 
quickly-flowing  soma-juices  enter  thee"  (i.  5,  7);  d  tvd  mhantu,  "let 
them  bring  thee  "  (i.  16,  3) ;  ni  oka  dhimahi,  "  we  put  down  "  (i.  17,  6). 

It  must  not,  however,  be  supposed,  from  these  differences  in  form 
which  we  discover  to  exist  between  the  Vedic  and  the  later  Sanskrit, 
that  the  two  languages  are  not  essentially  alike.    A  great  portion  of 


210      MANY  VEDIO  "WOEDS  AFTERWARDS  BECAME  OBSOLETE. 

the  substance,  and  much  of  the  form  of  the  language,  was  the  same  at 
both  periods :  a  part  of  the  Vedio  roots  and  nouns  only  have  in  later 
times  fallen  into  disuse ;  and  the  peculiar  Vedic  varieties  of  form  are 
merely  the  ancient  modes  of  inflection  which  were  in  common  currency 
at  the  time  when  the  hymns  were  composed,  and  which  gradually 
became  obsolete  in  the  course  of  ages.''^  Some  of  them,  however, 
continued  for  a  long  time  in  popular  use,  as  we  find  in  the  ease  of  the 
form  of  the  instr.  pi.  ehhis  for  ais,  which  we  meet  with  unchanged  in 
the  Grathas  of  the  Lalita-vistara  (see  the  instances  given  above,  in 
p.  120),  and  somewhat  modified  in  the  Pali  forms  ebhi  and  ehi. 

A  further  proof  of  the  antiquity  of  the  Vedic  hymns  is  to  be  found 
in  the  fact,  already  alluded  to,  -p.  169,  f.,  that  many  words  in  use  in  the 
Veda  afterwards  became  obsolete,  as  they  do  not  occur  in  the  later 
Sanskrit  literature.  The  meaning  of  these  words  is  often  extremely 
difficult  to  ascertain,  as  no  tradition  of  their  signification  seems  to  have 
been  preserved,  and  even  the  oldest  interpreters,  as  Taska,  are  obliged 
to  have  recourse  to  etymology  in  order  to  arrive  at  their  sense.  (See 
on  this  subject  my  article  "  On  the  Interpretation  of  the  Veda,"  in  the 
Journal  of  the  Eoyal  As.  Soc,  vol.  ii.,  new  series,  pp.  303,  ff.) 

As  the  hymns  of  the  Veda  were  the  compositions  of  the  ancient 

254  The  following  is  Professor  Whitney's  account  of  the  differences  between  the 
Vedio  and  the  modern  Sanskrit : — 

"  The  language  of  the  Vedas  is  an  older  dialect,  varying  very  considerably,  both 
in  its  grammatical  and  lexical  character,  from  the  classical  Sanskrit.  Its  grammati- 
cal peculiarities  run  through  all  departments  :  euphonic  rules,  word-formation  and 

composition,  declension,  conjugation,  syntax [These  peculiarities]  are 

partly  such  as  characterize  an  older  language,  consisting  in  a  greater  originality  of 
forms,  and  the  like,  and  partly  such  as  characterize  a  language  which  is  still  in  the 
bloom  and  vigour  of  life,  its  freedom  untrammelled  by  other  rules  than  those  of 
common  usage,  and  which  has  not,  like  the  Sanskrit,  passed  into  oblivion  as  a 
native  spoken  dialect,  become  merely  a  conventional  medium  of  communication 
among  the  learned,  being  forced,  as,  it  were,  into  a  mould  of  regularity  by  long  and 
exhausting  grammatical  treatment.  .  .  .  The  dissimilarity  existing  between  the 
two,  in  respect  of  the  stock  of  words  of  which  each  is  made  up,  is,  to  say  the  least, 
not  less  marked.  Not  single  words  alone,  but  whole  classes  of  derivations  and  roots, 
with  the  families  that  are  formed  from  them,  which  the  Veda  exhibits  in  frequent 
and  familiar  use,  are  wholly  wanting,  or  have  left  but  faint  traces,  in  the  classical 
dialect ;  and  this  to  such  an  extent  as  seems  to  demand,  if  the  two  be  actually  related 
to  one  another  directly  as  mother  and  daughter,  a  longer  interval  between  them  than 
we  should  be  inclined  to  assume,  from  the  character  and  degree  of  the  grammatical, 
and  more  especially  the  phonetic,  differences." — Journ.  of  the  Amer.  Orient.  Soc.  iii. 
296,  a97. 


RISHIS  SOMETIMES  CLAIM  TO  HAVE  BEEN  INSPIRED.      211 

Indian  rishis  or  bards,  who,  as  we  have  seen  above  (p.  197,  f.),  frequently 
speak  of  having  "made,"  "fashioned,"  or  " generated ""'^  them,  they 
could  not  possibly  have  been  composed  in  any  other  language  than  that 
which  these  rishis  and  their  contemporaries  were  in  the  habit  of  using 
for  every-day  conversation. 

There  are,  no  doubt,  in  the  hymns  some  apparent  traces  of  an  idea 
that  the  authors  were  inspired;*^'  as  in  the  following  texts:  E.V.,  i.. 
37,  4:  devattam  hrahma  gayata  \  "Sing  the  god-given  prayer."  In 
K.V.  X.  71,  3,  it  is  said  of  the  goddess  Vaoh:  Yajnena  Vachah  pada- 
viyam  ay  cm  tarn  anvavindann  rishishw  prcwishtam  \  "By  sacrifice  they 
followed  the  track  of  Vach :  they  found  her  residing  in  the  rishis." 

In  E.V.  X.  125,  5,  again,  Vach'"  is  made  to  say :  Yam  Icamaye  tarn 
tarn  ugram  krinomi  tarn  hrahmdnam  torn  risMm  tarn  sumedham  |  "Every 
man  whom  I  love,  I  make  him  terrible ;  [I  make]  him  a  priest ;  [I 
make]  him  a  rishi;  [I  make]  him  intelligent."  "^ 

In  a  Valakhilya  (or  apocryphal  hymn),  which,  with  others,  is  to  be 
found  inserted  between  the  48th  and  49th  hymns  of  the  8th  mandala 
of  the  Eigveda,  the  following  verse  occurs,  xi.  6  : 

Indra-  Va/rwna  yad  risMlhyo  manishdm  vaoho  matim  snttam  adattam  ogre  \ 
yani  sthdnany  asrij'ania  dhlrah  yajnam  tamidnas  tapasd  'hhyapaiyam  \ 

For  the  complete  text  of  this  verse  I  was  first  indebted  to  Professor 
Miiller,  who  supplied  also  the  following  version  of  it:  "Indra  and 
Varuna,  I  have  seen  through  devotion  that  which,  after  it  was  heard 

255  See  numerous  passages  to  this  effect  adduced  in  the  third  volume  of  this  work, 
p.  232,  ff. 

256  Xhis  subject  is  treated  more  at  length  in  the  third  volume  of  this  work,  p.  245,ff. 
In  his  illustrations  of  the  Nirukta,  p.  85,  Eoth  observes  in  regard  to  the  fifth  hymn 
of  the  fourth  book  of  the  E.V. :  "  The  author  of  the  hymn,  Vamadeva,  him- 
self professes  to  mate  known  a  mysterious  and  recondite  wisdom,  which  had  been 
revealed  to  him  by  Agni  (verses  3  and  6)."  The  third  verse  is  as  follows :  Sama 
dviiarhah  mahi  Ugmabhrishtih  sahasraretah  vriahabhas  fmiishmcm  |  Fadam  na  gar 
apagulham  vividvoM  Agnir  mahyam  predn  vochad  manlsham \\  "  Agni,  the  trans- 
cently  strong,  the  fierce-flaming,  the  prolific,  the  showerer  of  benefits,  the  powerful, 
who  knows  the  venerable  hymn,  mysterious  as  the  track  of  a  [missing]  cow,  hath 
declared  to  me  its  knowledge." 

Ml  See,  however,  note  27,  p.  258,  of  the  third  volume  of  this  work. 
258  Vach  thus  appears  partly,  though  not  entirely,  in  the  character  of  a  Muse. 
Compare  what  Homer  says  of  Demodoous,  Odyssey  viii.  63,  64  : 
Tfbv  irepi  MoOir'  itjilXjiffe,  SiSov  S'  kyaB6v  re  Kaxdv  re, 
'otpBnAiiSm  /nev  i/iepae,  SiSov  S'  ^Seiav  aaiS^i/. 


212        HYMNS  IN  THE  CONTEMPOEAEY  VEENACXTLAR  TONGUE. 

in  th.e  beginning,  you  gave  to  the  poets — ^wisdom,  understanding  of 
speech ;  and  I  have  seen  the  (sacred)  places  which  the  sages  created  in 
performing  the  sacrifice." '^' 

Though,  however,  some  traces  of  an  idea  that  the  rishis  were  in- 
spired by  the  gods,  by  Vach,  or  Indra  and  Agni,  or  Indra  and  Varuna 
(but  not,  in  any  of  the  passages  which  I  have  here  quoted,  by  Brahma, 
who  in  later  times  was  regarded  as  the  source  of  inspiration :  see  above, 
p.  195),  may  thus  be  detected  in  the  Eigveda,  there  is  no  doubt,  on 
the  other  hand,  that  these  ancient  bards  often  or  generally  speak  of 
the  hymns  as  the  creation  of  their  own  minds ;  and  there  is  no  reason 
to  suppose  that  they  were  anything  else.  But  as  even  an  inspired 
composition,  to  be  generally  intelligible,  must  be  delivered  in  the 
language  current  among  the  people  to  whom  it  is  first  promulgated, 
there  is  no  pretence  for  supposing  that  the  Sanskrit  of  the  Vedas  was 
not  the  vernacular  language  of  the  age  in  which  they  were  first  recited. 

At  that  early  period  there  was  no  language  current  among  the  Aryas 
but  the  Vedic  Sanskrit.  A  learned  language,  different  from  the  spoken 
tongue,  was  a  thing  then  unknown ;  and  the  refinements  of  grammar 
had  no  existence.  This  accords  with  the  purport  of  the  following 
curious  passage  of  an  ancient  Brahmana,'""  referred  to  by  Sayana  in 
the  introduction  to  his  commentary  on  the  Eigveda,  p.  35  :  Vyakaranam 
a/pi  frakriti-pratyayady-wpaiekma  pada-svarupa-tad-artha-nisehayaya 
wpa/yv^yaU  \  Tatha  oka  Aindra-vaywoa-graha-lrahnam  samamnayate  J 
"  Tag  vai  parachl  avydkrifd  'Ihmat  \  te  devdh  Indram  ahriwann  'imam 
no  Vaeha0i  vyakwru'  iti\  so  'bravid  'mram  vrinai  \  mahymfi,  cka  eva 
esha  Fayave  aha  saha  grihydtai '  iti  \  tasmdd  Aindravdywoah  saha  pra- 
grihyate  ^'  |  tdm  Indro  madhyato  'vakramya  vyaiarot  |  tasmdd  iyarh 
vyakrita  vag  lidyate"  iti  |  "  Agnim  lie  pwohitam"  ityddi-vdk  purvas- 
min  kdlepardoM  samudrddi-dkvam-vad  ekdtmihd  satl  mydkritd  prakritih 
pratyayah   pada/fh   vdkyam    ityddi-vihhdga-kdri-grantha-rahitd    dsU  \ 

259  In  the  third  volume  of  this  work,  p.  263,  the  verse  is  translated  thus :  "  Indra 
and  Varuna,  I  have  seen  through  austere-fervour  that  which  ye  formerly  gave  to 
the  rishis,  wisdom,  understanding  of  speech,  sacred  lorey  and  all  the  places  which 
the  sages  created,  when  performing  sacrifice." 

260  This  passage  is  found  in  the  Taitt.  S.  vi.  4,  7,  3,  in  the  very  same  words, 
with  the  adition  after  "  udyate"  of  the  following  :  tasmat  aakrid  Indraya  madhyato 
grihyate  dvir  Yayave  ch>cm  M  sa  varav  avrinJta  \ 

361  "Pra"  omitted  in  Taitt.  S. 


HO"W  THE  VEDIC  LANGUAGE  FELL  INTO  DISXJSE.  213 

tadanim  devailt  prdrthitah  Indrah  ekasminn  eva  pdtre  Fayoh  svasya 
eha  soma-rasasya  graham- rupem  varena  tushtas  tarn  akhanddm  Facham 
madhye  viehhidya  prakriti-pratyayadi-lhagafh  sa/rvatra  oka/rot  \  tasmad 
iyam  vdg  idanim  api  Paninyadi-maharshibhir  vyakrita  sarvaih  pathyate 
ity  arthah  \  "  Grammar,  also,  by  indicating  the  crude  forms  and  the 
afB.xes,  is  useful  for  determining  the  character  of  words,  and  their  signi- 
fication. And  accordingly  it  is  thus  related  in  the  Aindra-Vayava-graha- 
brahmana  (a  section,  so  caRed,  either  of  the  Taittiriya  Sanhita,  or  of  some 
Brahmaaa):  '  Vach  (Speech)  spoke  confusedly,  and  without  articulation. 
The  gods  said  to*Indra,  Make  this  Vach  to  become  articulate  to  us. 
Indra  replied,  Let  me  choose  a  boon ;  let  the  soma  be  given  to  me  and 
Vayu  together.  Hence  the  soma  of  Indra  and  Vayu  is  taken  together. 
Indra  then,  dividing  Speech  in  sunder  in  the  middle,  rendered  her 
articulate.  Hence  she  is  spoken  articulately.'  The  sense  of  this 
quotation,  says  Sayana,  is  this :  Speech,  such  as  in  the  verse  Agnim 
lie  ptt/rohitam,  etc.  (the  first  verse  of  the  Eigveda),  was  originally 
confused,  i.e.  unvaried  like  the  roar  of  the  sea,  etc.,  and  undis- 
tinguished, i.e.  without  articulation  to  denote  crude  forms,  inflections, 
words,  and  sentences,  etc.  Then  Tndra,  being  solicited  by  the  gods, 
and  gratified  by  the  permission  to  take  the  soma-juice  in  the  same 
vessel  with  Vayu,  divided  in  the  middle  Speech,  which  had  pre- 
viously been  without  division,  and  introduced  everywhere  the  dis- 
tinction of  crude  forms,  inflections,  etc.  In  consequence,  this  Speech, 
being  now  distinguished  in  its  parts  by  Panini  and  other  great  sages, 
is  pronounced  by  all  men." 

It  may  be  asked,  however.  If  the  Vedic  Sanskrit  was  once  the  spoken 
language  of  India,  how  did  it  ever  cease  to  be  spoken?  To  this  I  reply 
as  follows : — 

By  the  time  when  the  collections  of  the  Vedic  hymns  were  formed, 
the  Sanskrit,  the  vernacular  spee(5h  of  the  rishis  and  their  descendants, 
had  undergone  a  considerable  alteration,  which  had  gradually  resulted, 
as  we  have  already  seen  (compare  pp.  36,  68,  ff.),  both  from  the  general 
laws  of  change  to  which  aU  language  is  subject  (as  exemplified  in 
various  other  ancient  tongues),  and  also  from  the  action  of  local  causes, 
such  as  the  intercourse  of  the  Aryas,  or  Sanskrit-speaking  race,  with 
the  Dasyus,  or  Mlechhas,  who  spoke  a  quite  diflferent  tongue.  In  this 
way,  words  which  had  formerly  been  commonly  employed  in  Sanskrit 


214     "WHY  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS  ARE  BIFFICULT  TO  UNDERSTAND. 

became  obsolete,  or  acquired  new  meanings,  while  other  new  words, 
borrowed  from  the  dialects  of  the  Mleohhas,  were  introduced  into 
currency ;  and  forms  of  inflection  which  were  once  current  got  gradu- 
ally into  disuse,  and  made  way  for  other  novel  forms.  Thus  a  twofold 
alteration  was  produced  in  the  ancient  Indian  language  (the  Sanskrit 
of  the  Vedas).  First,  the  Pali  and  the  Prakrit,  or  vernacular  dialects, 
were  formed  out  of  it  in  the  manner  which  has  already  been  described 
(pp.  33,  68,  f.,  134,  146);  and  secondly,  a  learned  language,  based 
upon  the  Sanskrit  of  the  Vedas,  but  variously  modified  (see  pp.  138,  f.), 
and  polished,  was  gradually  constructed  by  grammarians,  which  being 
removed  from  the  corrupting  influences  of  popular  use,  has  thence- 
forward continued  unchanged  (p.  162). 

"When  the  process  of  change  had  been  going  on  for  many  generations, 
the  Vedic  hymns  became  exceedingly  difficult  to  understand.  The 
obstacles  to  comprehension,  arising  from  these  intermediate  changes  of 
language,  were  greatly  augmented  by  the  obscure  and  elliptical  style 
in  which  the  hymns  were  originally  composed,  which  rendered  it  hard 
for  the  men  of  subsequent  ages  to  understand  the  brief  aUusions  to 
ancient  ideas,  practices,  and  events  with  which  they  abound. 

These  considerations  will  sufficiently  account  for  the  difficulty  which 
was  experienced  in  the  comprehension  of  the  Vedio  hymns  in  later 
ages,  w'ithout  there  being  the  least  necessity  for  our  supposing  that 
they  were  composed  in  a  language  at  all  different  from  that  which 
was  ordinarily  current  in  India,  among  the  common  people  of  the 
Aryan  race,  at  the  time  of  their  composition. 


215 


CHAPTEE    II. 

AFFINITIES  OF  TH£  INDIANS  WITH  THE  PERSIANS,  GREEKS, 
AND  ROMANS,  AND  DERIVATION  OF  ALL  THESE  NATIONS 
FROM  CENTRAL  ASIA. 

Feom  the  preceding  review  it  is  clear  that  the  Sanskrit  language  has 
been  undergoing  a  continual  change,  from  the  very  earliest  times  up 
to  which  we  can  follow  its  course.  But  if  this  be  the  case,  it  would 
be  contrary  to  all  analogy  to  suppose  that  that  language  had  remained 
unaltered  in  those  yet  earlier  ages  before  the  Vedas  were  composed. 
It  must,  therefore,  now  become  my  object  to  inquire,  whether  we  can 
discover  any  means  of  following  it  back  to  its  origin.  We  are  not, 
it  must  be  confessed,  in  a  position  to  do  this  in  any  other  way  than 
that  of  reasoning  and  inference;  for,  in  the  absence  of  any, Sanskrit 
writings  anterior  to  the  Vedas,  we  possess  no  direct  means  of  tracing 
the  history  of  the  Sanskrit  language  and  its  mutations  any  further 
back  than  the  date  of  the  composition  of  those  hymns.  There  is, 
however,  another  way  in  which  we  can  arrive  at  some  conception  of 
that  history.  Prom  facts  which  are  established  and  evident,  we  must 
reason  to  the  unapparent  causes  which  they  presuppose,  and  out  of 
which  they  have  arisen.' 

Learned  men  have  remarked,  that  there  is  a  great  resemblance  be- 
tween the  Sanskrit  and  other  languages,  some  of  which,  like  it,  are 
now  no  longer  spoken,  but  were  formerly  the  current  and  popular 
speech  of  ancient  nations,  and  are  preserved  in  written  records  which 

•  'fls  'eyii  (TviiPdWofitti,  rotai  'efuj>av4(ri  ret  /i^  yivaaKiiieva  TeKiiaip6/iepos,  "  As  I 
conjecture,  inferring  things  unknown  from  things  that  are  manifest,"  says  Herodotus, 
ii.  33.  Compare  Euripides,  fragment  5  of  the  Phoenix,  T&<pav7i  reK/nipiourtr  4ik6tus 
aXla-Kerai,  "A  probable  conclusion  regarding  things  unapparent  is  reached  by 
proofs," 


216     APFINITT  BETWEEN  SANSKRIT,  ZEND,  GREEK,  AND  LATIN. 

have  descended  to  us  from  a  remote  antiquity.  These  are  1st,  the 
Zend  and  other  varieties  of  the  ancient  Persic;  2nd,  the  Greek;  and 
3rd,  the  Latin."  The  Zend  language  is  preserved  in  the  Zend  Avesta, 
a  collection  of  writings  connected  with  the  ancient  religion  of  Persia. 
The  poems  of  Homer,  which  form  the  oldest  relic  of  the  extensive 
literature  of  ancient  Greece,  are  supposed  to  have  been  written  about 
2,700  years  ago.  And  there  are  many  Latin  books  which  are  2,000 
years  old.  From  the  great  similarity  which  exists  between  these 
languages  and  the  Sanskrit,  of  which  proofs  and  instances  wiU  be 
presently  adduced,  learned  men  have  inferred :  1st,  That  these  forms 
of  speech  have  aU  one  common  origin,  i.e.,  that  Sanskrit,  Zend,  Greek, 
and  Latin  are  all,  as  it  were,  sisters,'  the  daughters  (some  perhaps 
older  and  some  younger,  but  still  all  daughters)  of  one  mother  who 
died  in  giving  them  birth,  or,  to  speak  without  a  figure,  that  they  are 
derivatives  from,  and  the  surviving  representatives  of,  one  older  lan- 
guage, which  now  no  longer  exists;*  and  2ndly,  That  the  races  of 
men  who  spoke  these  several  languages  are  also  all  descended  from  one 
stock,  and  that  their  ancestors  at  a  very  early  period  aU  lived  together 
in  some  country  (situated  out  of  Hindustan),  speaking  one  language ; 
but  afterwards  separated,  to  travel  away  from  their  primeval  abodes, 
at  different  times  and  in  different  directions;  the  forefathers  of  the 

'  It  is  not  necessary  for  my  purpose  to  insist  much  on  the  affinities  of  the 
Sanskrit  to  any  other  languages  hesides  those  I  have  named. 

'  Facies  non  omnibus  una,  nee  diversa  tamen,  qnalem  decet  esse  sororum. 

*  From  a  comparison  of  the  various  forms  which  words  of  identical  signification 
have  assumed  in  the  different  derivative  tongues,  and  of  the  laws  which  in  each 
case  must  have  governed  the  mutations  which  they  have  undergone,  it  becomes 
possible  to  ascertain,  in  many  oases  with  certainty,  or  with  high  probability,  the  form 
which  the  words  had  at  first  in  the  mother-language,  the  original  Indo-European 
speech.  In  the  work  of  the  late  August  Schleicher,  entitled  "  Compendium  der 
vergleichenden  Grammatik  der  Indogermanischen  Sprachen  "  (i.e.  "  Compendium  of 
the  Comparative  Grammar  of  thelndo-Germanic  Languages")  3rd  ed.,  1871,  the  letters 
of  the  mother -language  which  continue  unaltered  in  the  derivative  tongues,  and  those 
which  have  been  replaced  by-  others,  are  specified,  and  the  original  forms  of  inflection 
and  conjugation,  as  well  as  of  numerous  words,  are  stated.  And  in  August  Pick's 
"  Vergleichendes  Worterbuch  der  Indogermanischen  Sprachen,"  (i.e.  "  Comparative 
Grammar  of  the  Indo-Germauic  Languages  "),  2nd  ed.,  1870,  the  words  of  the  original 
language  are  given  according  to  the  author's  conception  of  their  form.  These 
writers,  however,  though  generally,  are  not  always,  at  one  as  to  the  original  forms. 
Thus  Schleicher  thinks  the  word  for  "  five  "  was  kankan,  whilst  Fick  makes  it  pankan. 
The  former  takes  mastars  to  have  been  at  first  the  word  for  "sister,"  whilst  the 
latter  makes  it  svasar. 


DIFFERENT  FAMILIES  OF  LANGUAGES.  217 

Hindus  southward  or  south-eastward  to  India;  the  ancestors  of  the 
Persians  to  the  south;  and  those  of  the  Greeks  and  Eomans  to  the 
west."  The  languages  of  those  branches  of  this  great  Indo-European 
stock  which  remained  longest  together  in  their  earliest  home,  viz.,  the 
Persians  and  the  Indians,  continued  to  bear  the  closest  resemblance  to 
each  other;  while  the  tongues  of  those  offshoots  which  separated 
earliest  from  the  parent  stock  exhibit  in  later  times  the  least  amount 
of  resemblance,  the  divergencies  of  dialect  becoming  wider  and  wider 
in  proportion  to  the  length  of  time  which  had  elapsed  since  the 
separation.* 

Sect.  I. — Introchtotory  Eemarh  on  Comparative  Philology :  affinities  of 
the  Sanskrit  and  Persian  with  each  other. 

I  shall  proceed  to  establish  these  assertions  as  to  the  resemblance  of 
the  Sanskrit  to  the  Zend,  Greek  and  Latin ;  after  first  premising  a  few 
simple  remarks  on  comparative  philology  in  general. 

A  comparison  of  the  various  languages  which  are  spoken  in  different 
countries  of  Europe  and  Asia,  has  brought  to  light  the  fact  that  they 
belong  to  different  families  or  classes ;  and  that  the  different  members 
of  the  same  family,  while  they  exhibit  a  more  or  less  close  resemblance 
to  each  other,  have  either  no  resemblance,  or  a  very  remote  one,  to 
those  belonging  to  any  of  the  other  families.  It  will  be  sufficient  for 
the  purpose  of  illustration,  if  I  refer  to  the  two  great  families  of  speech, 
universally  recognized  as  distinct,  the  Semitic  and  the  Indo-European. 

'  For  an  account  of  the  Greeks  and  Romans,  I  refer  the  Indian  student  to  any  of 
the  ordinary  historical  manuals. 

8  "A  comparison  of  the  grammatical  structure  of  the  Sanskrit,  especially  in  its  oldest 
form  as  represented  in  the  Veda,  with  the  Celtic,  Greek,  Latin,  German,  Letto-Slavon- 
ian,  and  Persian,  etc.,  teaches  us  that  all  these  languages  have  a  common  basis,  or  in 
other  words  that  they  are  derived  from  one  common  original  speech ;  and  the  grada- 
tion of  sounds  and  forms  points  to  the  Sanskrit  as  the  language  which  in  general  still 
preserves  the  most  original  form,  and  has  departed  least  from  the  original  tongue, 
This  existence  of  one  common  original  language  necessarily  leads  us  to  conclude 
that  at  the  period  when  it  was  stiD.  a  living  and  spoken  tongue,  the  people  also 
which  employed  it  formed  one  nation ;  and  it  results  that  the  individual  nations  as 
well  as  their  languages  were  formed  by  a  gradual  separation  from  the  Indo-European 
people,  and  its  language.  And,  moreover,  the  greater  or  less  similarity  of  the 
several  languages  among  each  other,  and  particularly  iu  reference  to  the  Sanskrit, 
enables  us  to  conclude  whether  the  separation  from  the  original  stock  took  place 
in  each  case  at  an  earlier  or  a  later  period." — Veber,  Indian  Sketches,  p.  7. 

VOL.  II.  15 


218     INDO-EUEOPEAN  LANGUAGES  DIFFERENT  FEOM  SEMITIC. 

The  languages  which,  helong  to  the  Semitic  hraneh  are  the  Arahic, 
Hebrew,  Syriac,  etc.  Now  all  who  have  studied  these  languages  are 
well  aware  that  they  closely  resemble  each  other  in  respect  of  their 
roots  and  general  character;  while  they  have  scarcely  any  affinity  at 
all  in  any  respect  with  the  languages  of  the  Indo-European  stock,  in 
which  are  included  Sanskrit,  Zend,  the  later  forms  of  pure  Persian, 
Greek,  Latin,  and  the  Teutonic  and  Sclavonic  languages.  Any  person 
who  knows  both  Arabic  and  Sanskrit  is  perfectly  aware  that  they  have 
little  resemblance  to  each  other  either  in  verbal  roots,  or  nouns,  and 
none  in  the  forms  of  conjugation  and  declension.' 

Now,  here  we  discover  the  very  remarkable  fact  that  two  languages, 

'  The  question  of  the  difference  hetween  the  Semitic  and  Indo-European  languages, 
in  point  of  structure,  with  their  partial  correspondence  in  respect  of  roots,  is  ably 
treated  by  Eenan,  "  Histoire  des  Langues  Semitiques,"  2nd  ed.  p.  434,  ff.  He 
observes  that  the  criterion  of  the  distinctness  of  families  in  languages  is  to  be  found 
in  the  impossibility  of  deriving  one  from  another.  Thus,  he  says,  it  is  quite  intel- 
ligible how,  notwithstanding  their  differences,  all  the  Indo-European  tongues  may 
be  related  to  the  same  type,  and  have  sprung  from  the  same  primitive  idiom ;  while 
it  is  impossible  to  explain  how,  by  any  series  of  corruptions,  the  Zend  or  the  Sanskrit 
could  have  become  Hebrew,  or  how  the  Hebrew  could  have  become  changed  to 
Sanskrit  or  Chinese  (p.  434).  It  is  generally  recognized  that  there  is  a  wide  dis- 
tinction between  the  grammatical  system  of  the  Semitic  languages  and  that  of  the 
Indo-European  tongues,  and  that  the  one  system  could  not  be  derived  from  the  other 
by  any  procedure  known  to  comparative  philology.  If  we  except  the  principles 
common  to  all,  or  to  most,  languages  (which  are  nothing  else  than  an  expression  of 
the  laws  of  the  human  mind),  there  is  scarcely  any  grammatical  mechanism  of  im- 
portance which  is  common  to  the  two  families  (p.  444).  But  in  the  classification  of 
languages,  grammatical  are  much  more  important  than  lexicographical  considerations 
[i.e.  the  inflections  of  a  language  are  of  much  more  consequence  than  the  words 
of  which  it  is  composed].  Many  languages  could  be  quoted  which  have  enriched  or 
renewed  their  vocabulary,  but  very  few  which  have  corrected  their  grammar.  Gram- 
mar is,  therefore,  the  essential  form  of  language,  that  which  constitutes  its  indi- 
viduality (pp.  447,  448).  On  the  other  hand,  M.  Eenan  admits  that  the  Semitic  and 
Indo-European  languages  have  a  considerable  number  of  roots  which  are  common  to 
both,  independently  of  such  as  they  have  borrowed  from  each  other  within  the 
historical  period.  But  he  doubts  whether  this  circumstance  is  suflBcient  to  prove 
the  primitive  unity  of  the  two  families,  and  scarcely  ventures  to  hope  that  a  demon- 
strative result  vrill  ever  be  attained  on  this  point.  The  greater  part  of  the  roots 
common  to  the  two  families  owe  their  similarity,  he  considers,  to  natural  causes,  as 
they  belong  to  the  class  of  biliteral  and  monosyllabic  onomatopoeias,  which  reappear 
in  the  triliteral  radicals  actually  existing,  and  in  which  original  sensations  appear 
to  have  left  their  traces.  Is  it  at  all  strange,  he  asks,  that  in  order  to  express 
outward  action,  the  primitive  man,  still  sympathizing  so  closely  with  nature,  and 
scarcely  separated  from  her,  should  have  sought  to  imitate  her,  and  that  the  same 
objects  should  have  been  universally  imitated  by  the  same  sounds  f  (pp.  449,  460.) 
M.  Eenan  illustrates  these  remarks  by  a  number  of  instances,  but  admits  that. 


PERSIAN  LANGUAGE  PARTLY  INDO-EUROPEAN  AND  SEMITIC.     219 

botli  very  perfect  and  polished  in  their  forms  and  structure,  and  both 
of  which  are  spoken  by  learned  men,  of  the  Hindu  and  Mahomedan 
religions  respectively,  living  together,  side  by  side,  in  the  same  cities 
of  India,  are  totally  different  from  each  other  in  almost  every  respect 
in  which  one  elaborate  and  complicated  language  can  be  distinguished 
from  another  language  of  the  same  character.  And  what  is  the  ex- 
planation of  this,  at  first  sight,  so  startling  phenomenon?  It  is,  of 
course,  that  Arabic  is  (as  its  name  implies)  the  language  of  the  Arabs, 
a  Semitic  tribe;  and  was  introduced  into  India  by  the  Mahomedan 
invaders  of  that  country,  who,  though  not  Arabians  by  descent,  have 
yet,  as  their  designation  imports,  been  converted  to  the  faith  of  the 
Arabian  conqueror  Mahomed,  and  have  learned  the  language  in  which 
their  sacred  volume,  the  Koran,  is  written :  while  Sanskrit,  on  the 
other  hand,  is  the  language  of  the  Brahmans,  who  are  descended,  more 
or  less  purely,  from  a  race  which  has  no  affinity  (unless  it  be  a  pri- 
mordial one)  with  the  Semitic,  viz.,  the  Arian.  It  is  not,  therefore, 
wonderful  that  the  Sanskrit  and  Arabic  languages,  which,  though  they 
meet  in  India,  have  been  introduced  into  that  country  from  quarters 
so  perfectly  distinct,  should  be  totally  different  from  each  other. 

But  the  Musulmans  of  India  are  not  only  acquainted  with  the  Arabic 
tongue,  but  with  the  Persian  also,  which  is  the  living  dialect  of  Persia, 
one  of  the  countries  which  lie  intermediate  between  Arabia  and  India. 
The  Persian  language,  which  the  Persians  now  speak,  and  which  the 
learned  Musulmans  of  India  write,  is  a  composite  form  of  speech,  i.e. 
one  chiefly  made  up  of  a  mixture  of  Arabic  with  the  ancient  Persic, 
which  was  originally  devoid  of  Arabic  words.  Now  in  that  portion 
of  the  modem  Persian  language  which  has  not  been  borrowed  from 
Arabic,  but  inherited  from  the  ancient  Persic,  we  find  many  words 

among  the  roots  wliioli  appear  to  be  common  to  the  Semitic  and  the  Indo-European 
languages,  there  are  a  certain  number  in  which  the  reason  of  the  onomatopoeia  is 
more  difScult  to  seize  (p.  462).  He  concludes  that  in  the  present  state  of  philo- 
logical science,  a  sound  method  of  theorizing  requires  us  to  regard  the  Semitic  and 
Indo-European  families  of  language  as  distinct  (p.  457) ;  ■wMle  at  the  same  time  he 
remarks  that  nothing  which  he  has  adduced  invalidates  the  hypothesis  of  a  primor- 
dial affinity  between  the  races  by  whom  the  Semitic  and  the  Indo-European  languages 
respectively  were  spoken  (p.  451).  For  details  I  must  refer  to  his  work  itself. 
Much  has  been  written  on  the  same  subject  by  other  scholars,  which  it  is  unhecessary 
to  specify.  I  refer  only  to  Dr.  Nbldeke's  paper  in  Benfey's  Orient,  und  Occident 
vol.  ii.,  p.  375,  ff. 


220        TABLE  OF  SANSKRIT,  PEESIAN,  AND  ARABIC  WORDS. 


■wHeli  are  manifestly  of  the  same  origin  as  the  Sanskrit  nouns  or  verbs 
of  the  same  signification. 

The  following  list  of  words  may  suflice  to  prove  the  assertion  just 
made,  that  the  Persian  language  has,  in  its  purely  Persic  element,  an 
afiinity  with  Sanskrit,  while  Arabic  has  no  such  affinity : — 

Table  Ko.  IX. 
Comparative  Table  of  Sanskrit,  Persian,  and  Arabic  Words. 


SANSKEIT. 

PERSIAlf. 

AEABIO. 

ENfiLISH. 

pitar 

pada/r^ 

abZ 

father. 

matar 

madar 

dmm 

mother. 

d%hitm- 

duTMar 

bint 

daughter. 

jamatar 

damad 

hafid 

son-in-law. 

yuvan 

jawan 

shabb 

young  man. 

nara 

nar 

zhakar 

male. 

gharma 

ga/rm 

harr 

heat. 

asva 

asp 

faras 

horse. 

ap 

5b 

ma 

water. 

naman 

nam 

ism 

name. 

s'ushka 

M,mhk 

yabis 

dry. 

pada 

pa 

qadam 

foot. 

bahu 

bahu,  basu 

sa'id 

arm. 

nava 

nau 

jadld 

new. 

eka, 

yah 

ahad 

one. 

dioi 

do 

ithnan 

two. 

chatur 

chahar 

arba'a 

four. 

panchan 

panj 

Mams 

five. 

shat 

sUsh 

satt" 

six. 

saptan 

mft 

saba'a 

seven. 

ashtan 

hasht 

thamaniyat 

eight. 

navan 

nuh 

tasa'a 

nine. 

das'an 

dah 

'ashar 

ten. 

mmsati 

bisi 

'ashrun, 

twenty. 

iatam 

fad,  sad 

mayat 

hundred. 

sahasra 

haiar 

alaf 

thousand. 

I  subjoin  many  additional  instances  of  affinity  between  Persian  and 
Sanskrit  words,  adding  the  equivalents  in  the  Zend,  one  of  the  earliest 
forms  of  the  Iranian  language,  but  omitting  all  reference  to  the  Arabic.'" 

8  See  p.  18,  note  23. 

9  In  this  case  the  Arahio  word  does  resemble  the  Sanskrit. 

'°  In  the  preparation  of  these  lists  I  have  had  the  advantage  of  drawing  from  the 
Etymological  Persian  and  Latin  Lexicon  of  Dr.  J.  A.  VuUers,  including  the  supple- 
ment containing  the  Persian  roots  iUustfated  by  reference  to  the  older  Persic 
dialects,  the  Sanskrit,  etc.;  the  Persian  Grammar  of  the  same  author  (1st  edition, 
1840, 2nd  edition,  1870) ;  and  Dr.  Justi's  Zend  Dictionary.  Dr.  VuUers's  Grammar, 
in  which  the  Persian  is  compared  with  the  ancient  Persic  dialects  and  with 
Sanskrit,  might,  if  translated  from  Latin  into  English,  form  a  useful  handbook  for 
Indian  students  desirous  of  learning  the  history  and  affinities  of  the  Persian  language. 


TABLE  OF  SANSKRIT,  ZEND,  AND  PERSIAN  "WORDS. 


221 


I.  VERBS  AND  PARTICIPLES. 


SANSKRIT. 

ZEND. 

PERSIAN. 

BNGIISH. 

dwr 

, 

darJdan 

to  tear. 

har 

kar 

kardan 

to  do. 

hrimu  (imperat. 

.    .     . 

kun 

d6  thou. 

vedic) 

as. 

da 

dadan 

to  give. 

grabh  (vedic)  ^' 

garew,  garefih 

girifian 

to  take. 

bhar 

bar 

I 

itirdtm 
bastan,  bandad 

to  bear. 
) 

bandh 

band.                1 

(3rd  pera.  sing, 
pres.) 

I  to  bind. 

ap 

ap,  af 

1/aftan 

to  obtain. 

sru  {srinoti) 

sru 

shanudan 

to  bear. 

ttha 

s'ta 

istadan 

to  stand. 

jtv 

jijishjiv 

zTstan 

to  live. 

mar 

mar 

murdan 

to  die. 

svap 

gap,  qafi 

Mmftan 

to  sleep. 

svapna 

qafna 

Wiwab 

sleep. 

char 

char 

charidan 

to  wander,  graze. 

dhav 

damdan 

to  run. 

pack 

paeh 

puMtam 

to  cook. 

duh 

... 

(doMdan 
\doshtdan 

to  milk. 

jna 

za 

danistan 

to  know. 

janati 

• 

[wT]  danad 

he  knows. 

jdnami 

[m?]  dSnam 

I  know. 

srij 

t 

sirishtan 

to  create. 

srishti 

*     .     . 

sirisht 

creation,  nature. 

hem 

jam. 

(zadan  {zanad  3rd 
(     pers.  sing.) 

to  strike. 

tras 

ta/rei 

tarsldan 

to  fear. 

trasa 

tarsti 

tars 

fear,  trembling. 

mih 

miz 

meMktan 

to  make  water. 

jajjmj 

... 

jangtdan 

to  fight. 

tapaa 

tafnu 

tap,  tab 

heat,  fever. 

ruh 

rud 

rustan,  royldan 

to  grow. 

praehh               \ 
{^priehhati)      ) 

pares' 

purstdan 

to  ask. 

ve,  vabh^^ 

• 

baftan 

to  weave. 

khan 

■     .     • 

kandan 

to  dig. 

harsh 

karesh,  hash 

kashidan 

to  draw. 

krt 

. 

Muwidan 

to  buy. 

dham 

dam 

damldan 

J  to  blow  (as  wind 
(    or  breath). 

Jan 

zan 

zadan 

be  bom,  beget. 

jata 

zata 

zadah 

born. 

tan  (tanotfj 

tan 

tamdan,  tanudan 

to  extend. 

imh 

inch 

solMan 

to  shine,  burn. 

varsh,  mr,  vari) 
(water)          / 

var 

barJdan 

to  rain. 

ni+dha 

ni+da 

nihadan 

to  place. 

"  The  later  form  grah  is  one  of  the  early  instances  of  the  same  process  by  which 
in  Prakrit  h  was  substituted  for  kh,  gh,  tk,  dh,  ph,  and  bh, 

"  The  existence  of  this  root  may  be  inferred  ftom  the  presence  of  a  derivative  from 
it  in  the  word  urnmahhi,  "  spider." 


222 


COMPARATIVE  TABLE  OP  SANSKRIT, 


SANSKEIT. 

ZEND. 

PERSIAN. 

ENGLISH. 

gam 

. 

ehamidan 

to  go,  walk. 

jam 

. 

zamldan 

to  eat. 

ehi 

. 

chidan 

to  collect. 

pra+athd 

jfra+m 

feristadan 

to  send,  go  forward, 
to  bend,  be  disposed 

nam 

nam 

namidan 

pat . 

pat 

uftadan,  Jitadan 

to  faU.             [to. 

dhi  (vedic) 

dt 

didan 

to  perceive,  see. 

bhu 

bu 

budan 

to  be. 

bhmami 

[»»2  bmam 
[mi]  bimad 

I  am. 

bhavati 

be  is. 

ahhwvam 

budam 

I  was. 

abhut 

bud 

he  was. 

abhuvan 

budand 

they  were. 

asmi 

ahmi 

am,  hastam 

I  am. 

asti 

asti 

hast,  ast 

he  is. 

santi 

henti 

and 

they  are. 

atu 

stu 

situdan 

to  praise. 

iudh 

iud 

shmtan 

to  cleanse,  wash. 

mard 

mared 

malJdan  " 

to  grind,  rub,  etc. 

nard 

.     .     . 

nalTdan 

to  sound,  lament. 

dhar 

dar 

dashtan  (imperat 
1     dd.r) 

jto  hold. 

karsh 

karesh 

kashtaai^m^fscai. 

kar) 
tapidan,  taftan 

(imperat.  tab) 

|to  cultiTate, 
to  be  hot, 

tap 

tap 

to  heat. 

vah 

vaz 

wazidan 

to  carry,  blow  (as 

bhraj 

. 

birishtan 

to  roast,    [wind). 

Icshar 

khshar 

sharTdan 

to  flow. 

chhid 

ikmd,  schind 

shihastan 

to  cut,  break. 

man 

qan 

Rwandan 

to  sound,  call,  read. 

sale  {sakttim, 
infin.) 

a'ach  (to  give, 
leam) 

«oAAiffi«(imperat. 
sae) 

Jto  be  able,  make. 

Rush  (to  tear,    \ 
tear  out)        j| 

.    .    . 

kushtan 

to  kiU. 

II.  NOUNS,  ADJECTIVES,  PRONOUNS,  PARTICLES,  etc.  » 


bhratar 

bratar 

svasar 

qanhar 

putra 

puthra 

dvasura 

qasv/ra 

s'vairu 

.     .    . 

vidhava 

jani,  gna 

Jeni,  gh 

martya 

morula 

vatsa 

.    .    . 

jtva,jmta 

jtti,jU 

birada/r 

brother. 

Mwahar 

sister. 

pisar,  pusar 

son. 

Bmsj- 

father-in-law. 

l^usrii,  or 
Musrah 

mother-in-law 

beuiah 

. 

widow. 

zan 

woman,  wife. 

mard 

mortal,  man. 

bachah  ^' 

child. 

zi,  zJst,  zindagi 

life. 

"  See  p.  23  above,  note  41,  and  the  line  to  which  it  refers. 

1*  It  is  possible  that  in  some  of  the  instances  of  similarity  here  adduced,  the 
Persian  word  may  have  been  borrowed  at  a  comparatively  recent  period  from  the 
Sanskrit,  or  vice  vers& ;  but  this  cannot  well  be  the  case  when  an  ancient  Zend 
equivalent  also  is  forthcoming.  "  See  page  16,  note  10. 


ZEND,  AND  PERSIAN  "WORDS. 


223 


SANSKRIT. 

ZEND. 

PERSIAN. 

ENGLISH. 

tanu 

tanu,  tanua 

tan 

body. 

majja 

mazga 

ma^z 

brain. 

iiras 

aara 

aar 

bead. 

asthi 

aati,  asta 

aatah,  uatukhan 

bone. 

parahni 

paahna 

paahnah 

heel. 

chakahu 

chaahmoM 

chashm 

eye. 

asm 

asru 

ara 

tear. 

dant 

dantam 

dandan 

tooth. 

jihva 

hizva 

zahan 

tongue. 

dos 

.     ■ 

doah 

shoulder. 

aratni 

*     •     • 

aranj 

elbow. 

hasta^^ 

zalta 

daat 

hand. 

mushti 

muati 

mmht 

fist,  handful. 

angushtha 

angusta 

anguaht 

thumb,  finger. 

nahha 

tiakhun 

naU. 

rom 

* 

romam 

hair. 

stana 

fatana 

paatan 

female  breast. 

yakrit 

.    .     . 

Jigar 

Uver. 

janu 

zhmi 

zdnu 

knee. 

pud 

padfia 

pa 

foot. 

kesa 

. 

gea,  geao 

hair,  ringlet. 

prishlha 

parati 

ptiaht 

hack. 

ushtra 

uatra 

uahta/r,  ahutr 

camel. 

kapi 

*     .     . 

kabt,  kapi 

ape. 

90 

gao 

gao 

ox,  or  cow. 

sukara 

hu 

auk 

boar. 

khara 

khara 

Miar 

ass,  or  wild  ass 

aivatara 

. 

astdr 

miie. 

mesha 

maeaha 

mesh 

sheep,  ram. 

musha 

. 

muah 

mouse. 

parna 

parena 

par 

feather,  wing. 

parnin 

perenin 

parindah 

winged,  a  bird. 

chanehu 

>          . 

chamg 

beak  of  a  bird. 

kapota 

. 

kabutar 

pigeon. 

gridkra 

,     .     . 

gJd 

a  vulture. 

drigala 

.     .     . 

ahagjval 

jackal. 

kwrankara 

kulamg 

crane. 

makshikxi 

makahi 

magaa 

fly. 

krimi 

kerema 

kirm 

worm. 

kaiyapa 
kachhapa 

kaayapa 

kaahaf 

tortoise. 

karka 

>    .    • 

kark,  Marchang 

crab. 

gutha 

t 

guh 

excrement. 

mataya 

maiya 

mahi 

fish. 

ksKlra 

kahira 

ahlr 

milk. 

hiranya 

zaranya 

zar 

gold. 

ayas 

ayanh 

ahan 

iron. 

charmcm 

*     .     . 

charm 

skin. 

ahara 

... 

ahdr 

food. 

nirahira, 
anahara 

.    .    . 

nahar 

fasting. 

kriahi  [krishfa) 

karati 

kiaht 

I  cultivation, 
\  ploughed  field. 

vrihi 

berejya" 

birinj 

rice. 

'«  Could  the  original  form  of  this  word  have  been  dhaata  ? 
"  See  Vullers's  Persian  Grammar,  2nd  edition,  pp.  60,  56. 
berejya  is  said  to  be  the  name  of  a  deity  who  protects  crops. 


In  Justi's  Lexicon 


224 


COMPAEATIVE  TABLE  OP  SANSKRIT, 


SANSKRIT. 

ZEND. 

PEHSIAN. 

ENGLISH. 

godhuma 

.     .     * 

gwndvm 

•wheat. 

yava 

ym>a 

jam 

bailey. 

dJicmya 

dana 

donah 

grain. 

jmgala 

*     i     • 

jangal 

thicket. 

kshwpa 

ehob 

a  hush,  wood. 

daru 

duuru 

darod 

wood. 

BhKa 

• 

shttWi,  s/iSMchah 

branch. 

ara 

arah 

saw. 

yuga 

. 

jagh 

yoke. 

jala 

jal 

net. 

bhara 

bar 

weight. 

vara 

.     .    . 

bar 

time. 

eimSra 

yakbar 

once. 

dvSra 

duara 

dar 

door. 

panjara 

.     .     . 

f  pinjarah,           ) 
\  panjarah 

cage. 

daman 

dam 

net,  bond. 

chakra 

ehahhra 

charMi 

wheel. 

deva 

daeva 

dev 

god,  demon. 

dsman 

aiman 

asman 

stone,  heaven. 

jagat 

jahan 

the  world. 

bhumi 

burnt 

bum 

ground,  earth. 

jma,  gma 

zem 

zamtn 

earth. 

avar,  surya 

kvare 

Mmr 

heaven,  sun. 

mitra,  mihira  '^ 

mithra 

mihr 

(  name  of  a  god,  sun, 
\  friend,  friendship. 

vaaiahtha 

anhu  vahiata 

behisht 

best,  paradise. 

mas 

maonh 

mah 

moon,  month. 

atar  (yedio) 

stare 

sitarah 

star. 

abhra 

awra 

abr 

cloud. 

megha 

maegha 

»M«g5 

cloud. 

kahapa 

hahap 

shab 

night. 

gharma 

garema 

garmS 

heat,  summer. 

hima 

zima 

zam 

vrinter,  cold. 

vata 

vata 

bad 

wind. 

ohhaya 

•     t     . 

aayah 

shade. 

chhatra 

chatajr 

umbrella. 

ranga 

rang 

colour. 

gandha 

gaihti 

gand 

smell,  bad  smell. 

karpura 

hafur 

camphor. 

soma 

httoma 

hom 

soma  plant. 

atharvan 

atharvan 

aturban 

f  priest,  fire-priest, 
\  saint. 

nomas 

nemanh 

namaa 

adoration,  prayers. 

manaa 

mtmanh 

mcmah 

mind,  disposition. 

guna 

gaona 

gunah 

quality,  colour. 

drugdha 

draogha 

darogh 

injury,  lie. 

trishna 

tarshna 

tiahnagT 

thirst. 

triahita,  iriahna; 

tiahnah 

thirsty. 

a'o&a 

bhi,  bhma 

aog 
bJm 

fear,  terrible. 

iama 

kam 

wish,  desire. 

rahaa 

raz 

secret. 

karya 

kara 

kar 

work. 

'8  Mihira  is  mentioned  by  Bohtlingk  and  Both  as  occurring  in  the  Mahabharata 
iii.  191,  as  a  name  of  the  sun.    Mitra  occurs  in  the  same  sense  in  the  same  line. 


ZEND,  AND  PERSIAN  WOEDS. 


225 


SANSKBIT. 

ZEND. 

FEBSIAN. 

ENGLISH. 

bhishaj 

bhaeshaia 

(bachaahk,         ] 
(bijishk             ) 

physician. 

kuiaia 

. 

kulal 

potter, 
brick. 

ishtika  (f) 

isiya 

Miaht 

yatu 

yatu 

jadu 

sorcerer,  sorcery. 

gola 

. 

golah              » 

a  ball. 

tara 

.    .     . 

tar 

<  wire,  chord, 
\   musical  note. 

jya 

.    .     . 

zih,  zSh 

a  bowstring. 

fira 

. 

tlr 

arrow. 

vistara 

.     .     . 

biatar 

bed. 

palyanka           / 

.     .    . 

palang'^' 

bed. 

rathya 

raithya 

rah 

road. 

humbha 

•     •     . 

Mumb 

jar. 

sthuna 

.     .     • 

aitun 

pUlar. 

tthana 

stana 

astan 

place,  threshold. 

daha 

dagha 

dagh 

( bnrning,  a  mark 
\   from  burning. 

^ 

/  rest,  pleasure, 
\     garden, 
comer,  arbour. 

arama 

raman 

aram 

Tcwnja 

.     •     ■ 

kunj 

drapsa 

drafska 

dirafah 

I  drop,  spark,  ban- 
ner, hghtning. 

tokman 

taoMman 

tuMm 

a  blade  of  grain, 
1    seed. 

sangama 

hanjamama 

anjuman 

an  assemblage. 

pratapa 

. 

porta 

lustre. 

s'aJmna 

. 

ahagun 

bird,  omen. 

chatwramga 

. 

ahatramg 

chess. 

dura 

dura 

dur 

far. 

nedishtha 

naida 

nizd 

near. 

mahat 

maz,  mazant 

mih 

great. 

mahattara 

mihtar 

greater,  chief. 

guru,  gariyas 

giran 

heaw. 
slender. 

tamu 

tamuk 

mma 

hamah 

aU. 

sam 

ham 

together. 

sarva 

haurva 

htur 

all. 

nema 

naima 

mm 

half. 

iukra  (bright) 

mlchra 

aurlsh 

red. 

iubha 

.     . 

Mub 

fair. 

aavya 

hmyd 

chap 

left. 

ng'ishtha  (vedie) 
sveta 

-   razista 

rOat 

straight. 

ipaeta 

aaped,  aafed 

white. 

ayama,  s'yava 

ayava 

aiyah 

black,  brown. 

purna 

perena 

pur 

fuU. 

tigma,ttkshm,  \ 

tejas,  tij  (to      [ 

tighra,  tizhin 

tej 

sharp,  sharpness. 

sharpen)          ) 

dtrgha 

dartgha 

daraz 

long. 

rama 

rama 

ram 

■  pleasant,  pleasant 

ness,  happy, 
destroyed. 

nashta 

•     • 

naahat 

sthSvara 

a'tawra 

ustuwar 

firm 

matta 

.     .     . 

maat 

intoxicated. 

"  See  p.  19,  note  26. 


226 


EESEMBLANCE  OF  SANSKRIT  TO  GREEK  AND  LATIN. 


kva,  kutra,        \ 
kuha  (vedic)      ] 


katrnna 

tara 

tara 

antar 

antare 

ttpari 

paiehat,  padcha 
idamm 

upairi 
paskat,  i 

vimsati 

vlsaiti 

panohSiai 
shashti 

khshasti 

saptati 
aim 

haptaiti 
astaiti 

nmati 

navaiti 

s'ata 

aata 

sahasra 

haeaiira 

durvara 

•     *     > 

kuthra 


h(waf 


PERSIAN. 

ENGLISH. 

dtishnam 

bad  name,  abuse. 

dujmanish,        ) 
dushman           j 

hostile,  disturbed 

in  mind. 

ku[ja] 

■where  ? 

nah 

not. 

tu 

thou. 

s3iwm 

you. 

mud 

you,  own,  self. 

kadam 

who? 

tar 

/  sign  of  comp. 
1      degree. 

andar 

within. 

bar 

aboTe. 

pas 

after. 

idun 

now. 

bist 

twenty. 

pcmjah 

fifty.  ■ 

shast 

sixty. 

haftad 

serenty. 

hashtad 

eighty. 

na/oad 

ninety. 

iod 

a  hundred. 

hamr 

a  thousand. 

dmhwar  "> 

difficult  to  stop, 
difficult. 

Note. — On  the  other  hand,  I  may  specify  the  instance  of  afat  (Ar.)  and  apad 
(Sans.),  in  which  a  word  of  similar  sound  has  the  same  sense  of  "calamity"  in 
Arabic  and  Sanskrit. 


Now  tte  old  language  of  Bactria  or  Persia,  from  which,  the  words 
in  the  above  list,  still  forming  part  of  the  modern  Persian,  must  be 
derived,  was  a  language  closely  connected  with  the  Sanskrit.  That 
language,  in  one  of  its  branches,  and  at  a  certain  stage  of  its  progress, 
was  the  Zend,  which  we  find  employed  in  the  Zendavesta,  or  sacred 
volume  of  the  Zoroastrians,  or  Parsis,  a  work  which  still  exists,  and  is 
studied  with  increasing  success  by  European  scholars. 

In  the  same  way,  if  we  compare  Sanskrit  with  the  language  of  the 
ancient  Greeks  (who  lived  to  the  north-west  of  Persia,  on  the  eastern 
and  western  shores  of  the  ^gean  Sea),  and  with  that  of  the  Eomans, 
who  inhabited  Italy,  we  shall  find  a  close  resemblance,  and  frequently 
an  almost  perfect  identity  in  very  many  words,  both  as  regards  the 
roots  and  the  inflection. 

2»  War  is  a  Persian  suffix,  perhaps  unconnected  with  the  Sanskrit  vara;  but 
there  is  no  doubt  of  the  identity  of  the  Persian  particle  dush  and  the  Sanskrit  dus. 


EESEMBLANCES  BETWEEN  LANGUAGES  AEE  TWOFOLD.       227 


The^  resemblances  between  languages  may  be  twofold.  First,  as 
regards  the  roots  of  the  words.  Eor  instance,  in  Sanskrit  we  have  the 
word  ndman,  "  name,"  and  we  find  the  same  word  nam  in  the  same 
sense  both  in  Persian  and  Hindi.  The  second  resemblance  is  in  the 
mode  of  inflection.  Here  we  do  not  find  any  resemblance  in  regard  to 
the  way  in  which  this  word  ndman  is  declined  between  the  Sanskrit 
and  the  Persian  and  Hindi  languages.  The  Sanskrit  has  three  num- 
bers, singular,  dual,  and  plural,  and  seven  cases  (besides  the  vocative) 
in  each  number,  whereas  the  Persian  and  Hindi  have  only  two  num- 
bers, singular  and  plural,  and  the  cases  are  formed  in  quite  a  different 
way  from  those  of  the  Sanskrit.  To  prove  this  it  will  be  sufficient  to 
give  the  difierent  cases  of  the  singular  number  of  this  word  in  each  of 
the  languages. 


SANSKRIT. 

pbesian. 

HINDI. 

NOM. 

nama 

nam 

t    nam 

Acc. 

nama 

namra 

namko 

Inst. 

namna 

' 

nam  se,  nam  karke 

DAT. 

namne 

wanting,  and 

namko 

Abl. 

nanmas 

'Supplied  by     ■ 

nam  se 

Gen. 

namnaa 

prepositions. 

namka 

Log. 

namni 

nam  men 

Voc. 

nama 

nam 

nam 

If  now  we  compare  the  Latin  word  for  "name"  with  the  Sanskrit, 
we  shall  find  not  only  that  the  root  is  the  same,  but  also  that  the  mode 
of  inflection  is  very  similar :  thus, — 


& 

ngular. 

mm 

al. 

SAKSKEIT. 

latin. 

SANSKRIT. 

LATIN. 

NoM 

nama  (from 

crude 

nomen 

NoM. 

namaui 

nomina 

form  naman) 

Acc. 

namani 

nomina 

Acc. 

nama 

nomen 

Inst. 

namabhis 

nominibus 

Inst. 

namna 

nomiTie 

Dat. 

namabhyas 

nominibus 

Dat. 

namne 

nomini 

Abl. 

namabbyas 

nominibus 

Abl. 

namnas 

nomine 

Gen. 

namnam 

nominum 

Gen. 

namnas 

nominis 

Loc. 

namasu 

nominibus 

Loc. 

namni 

nomine 

Voc. 

namani 

nomina 

Voc. 

nama 

nomen 

The  Latin  language  has  no  dual. 

"We  see  here  that  while  the  same  root  expressing  the  word  "  name  " 
is  common  to  all  these  languages,  the  Persian  and  Hindi  have  lost  the 
ancient  forms  of  inflection,  while  the  Sanskrit  and  Latin  have  pre- 
served theuL  There  thus  exists  a  double  resemblance,  viz. ;  first  of 
roots,  and  second  of  inflections,  between  the  Latin  and  the  Sanskrit, 
and  the  same  remark  is  equally  true  of  the  Greek  and  the  Zend. 


228     AFFINITIES  OF  SANSKRIT  WITH  ZEND,  GREEK,  AND  LATIN. 

Now,  vlien  we  find  that  a  multitude  of  roots  coincide  in  any  two 
languages,  of  whict  the  one  does  not  derive  them  from  the  other,  we 
may  be  sure  (even  though  the  one  may  have  no  complex  system  of 
inflections,  while  the  other  has),  that  those  two  languages  have  a 
common  origin,  especially  if  we  can  show  that  the  one  which  is  defi- 
cient in  inflections  has  gradually  lost  them  by  a  particular  process  of 
alteration  which  can  stiU  he  traced.  But  if  any  two  languages  re- 
semble one  another  both  in  roots  and  inflections,  the  proof  of  their 
affinity  is  then  greatly  strengthened. 

Sect.  II. — Detailed  illustrations  of  the  affinities  of  Sanskrit  with  the 
Zend,  Greek,  and  Latin  languages. 

I  proceed  now  to  famish,  first,  some  specimens  of  words  which  as 
roots  correspond  to  each  other  in  Sanskrit,  Zend,  Greek,  and  Latin ; 
and  I  shall  afterwards  exhibit  the  mutual  resemblances  of  these  four 
languages  in  point  of  inflection  also. 

The  following  is  a  list  of  words  (derived  from  the  publications  of 
Bopp,  Benfey,  Aufrecht,  Curtius,  Tick,  Justi,  and  others)  which  cor- 
respond both  in  sound  and  sense  in  Sanskrit,  Zend,  Greek,  and  Latin. 

In  many  of  these  words  the  resemblance  is  so  close  that  no  doubt 
can  be  entertained  of  their  affinity,  that  they  are  all  the  representatives 
(more  or  less  changed)  of  some  one  particular  word  in  the  original 
language  from  which  they  have  all  been  derived.  In  other  cases 
where  the  resemblance  is  not  so  apparent,  the  affinity  can  nevertheless 
be  satisfactorily  proved  by  observation  of  the  fact  that  one  or  more  of 
the  letters  of  words  having  the  same  signification  in  the  different 
languages  always  or  generally  vary  from  one  another  in  a  uniform 
manner  in  the  difierent  languages.  It  will  be  necessary  to  illustrate 
this  point  in  detail. 

I  should  first  remark  that  the  original  forms  of  the  cognate  words  in 
question,  as  they  existed  in  their  assumed  mother-language,  cannot  in 
all  cases  be  determined  with  certainty,  but  in  most  iastances  they  can 
be  fixed  with  an  approach  to  precision.  Thus,  from  a  comparison  of 
the  Sanskrit  ahi  with  the  Greek  ekhis,  and  the  Latin  a/nguis,  we  may 
gather  with  probability  that  the  original  form  was  aghi,  or  anghi. 
Similarly  the  Sanskrit  d/uMtar  and  the  Greek  thugater  seem  to  come 
from  dughatm  or  dhughata/r ;  a&va  and  equus  from  akva ;  han  and  kuon 


VAEIATIONS  IN  THE  FORMS  OF  COGNATE  WOEDS. 


229 


from  hvan;  jdnu  and  gonu  from  ganu;jna,  gignoako  and  nosco  {oogno$co) 
from  gna,  etc.  Some  of  the  consonants  found  in  Sanskrit  do  not 
appear  to  have  existed  in  the  original  Indo-European  tongue,  such  as 
cha,  ehha,  ja,  jha,  which  are  considered  to  have  been  developed  out  of 
h  and  g.  From  a  comparison  of  the  different  cognate  words,  it  results 
that  certain  consonants  of  the  original  language  remain  uniform  in  aU. 
the  derivative  tongues,  whilst  others  vary  in  one  or  more  of  the  latter. 
This  is  shown  in  the  following  table,  abridged  from  that  given  in 
Schleicher's  Compendium  der  vergl.  Grammatik  (3rd  ed.),  p.  328. 


Indo- 
eukopean. 

Sanskeit 
(or  old  Indian). 

(or  old  Baotrian), 

Greek. 

Latin. 

k 

k  (kh),  ch 

k  (kh),  ch 

k  (f),  g  (7) 

c,  qv 

s,  p 

g(gii),i 

P  W.  t  (r) 

g 

g>  J 

g  (7).  b  (b) 

g.  gv,  T. 

gh 

gli,h 

z,  z 

g,  gh,  z,  z 

kh(x) 

g,  gr,  T,  h,  f. 

t 

t,th 

t  (th,  t) 

f    T 

t 

d 

d 

d  (dh) 

d(S) 

d,l. 

dh 

dh 

d  (dh) 

th(9 

d,  f,  b. 

P 

g,ph 

P(f) 

pW 

P- 

b  " 

b  " 

b(j8) 

b. 

bh 

bh 

b(w) 

ph(^) 
n(y) 

b,  f. 

n 

n 

n 

n. 

m 

m 

m 

m(n) 

m. 

r 

i  r,l,(r,r,&l 
\    as  vowels) 

V 

r  (P),  1  W 

r,  I. 

y 

y 

y 

|i^),^.,),ds 

|j.  i- 

s 

s,  sh 

I  s,  sh,  eC,  h,  nh, 
(   n'h,  qh 

js(<r),hO 

6,   1. 

T 

T 

T,  (w),  p,  b 

u  („j  F 

V,    u. 

sk 

chh 

ST 

.    .    . 

qh' 

.    .    . 

.       .      . 

In  Sanskrit  the  dental  letters  (t,  th,  d,  dh,  s)  sometimes  become 
Unguals  (or  cerebrals  t,  d,  etc.),  and  the  nasals  n  and  m  become  n, 
ri,  and  5,  in  consequence  of  certain  phonetic  laws.  In  Greek  ky,  khy, 
ty,  thy  =  ss;  dy,  gy=f(ds). 

These  laws  and  variations  are  exemplified  in  such  words  as  the  fol- 
lowing : — 

{a)  where  k  remains  common  to  Sanskrit,  Greek,  and  Latin — as  in 
aksha,  axon(=aks5n);  axis(=aksis)  or  dakshina,  dexios  (=deksios), 
dexter  (=dekster);  or  kshura  =  xuron  (=kshuron). 
(J)  where  k  in  Greek  and  c  (  =  k)  in  Latin  are  represented  by  i  (^)  in 

'1  Schleicher  places  a  mark  of  interrogation  (?)  after  the  b,  and  in  the  Zend  column 
omits  the  b  and  puts  only  a  m^rk  of  interrogation. 


230 


COMPARATIVE  TABLE  OF  SANSKEIT, 


Sanskrit — as  in  deka,  decern  =  da^an  ;  ekaton,  centum.  =  satam ; 

kuon,  canis  =  svan;   dark  =  dar^.      According  to  Bopp,  (Comp. 

Gram.,  2nd  ed.)  sec.   21fl,  the  Sanskrit  i  is  almost  always  the 

corruption  of   an  original  k.      Schleicher  (p.  165)  says  it  was 

originally  a  k,  and  ought  perhaps  properly  to  be  pronounced  as 

the  German  ch,  which  is  in  sound  not  unlike  the  Persian  and 

Arabic  khe  (^ ). 
(c)  G  in  Greek  and  Latin  is  in  Sanskrit  frequently  represented  by  j, 

as  in  ago,  ago  =  ajami;    in  gignosko,   nosoo  =  janami;  gennao, 

gigno  =  jajanmi ;  agros,  agar  =  ajra. 
{d  )  Kh  {•)()  in  Greek  is  represented  by  gh,  and  h  in  Sanskrit,  and  by 

h  and  g  in  Latin,  as  in  elakhus  =  laghus,  ekhis  =  ahi  and  anguis, 

kheima  =  hima  and  hiems. 
(«)  Th  {6)  in  Greek  is  represented  by  dh  in  Sanskrit,  and  by  f  or  d  in 

Latin,    as   in    tithemi  =  dadhami ;    methu  =  madhu  ;    thumos  = 

dhuma,  fumus. 
(/)  Ph  ((^)  in  Greek  is  represented  in  Sanskrit  by  bh,  and  in  Latin  by 

f  and  b,  as  in  phuo  =  bhavami  and  fui ;  ophrus  =  bhru ;  phero  = 

bharami  and  fero ;  phratria  =  bhratar,  frater.    . 
( ^  )  G  in  Sanskrit  is  sometimes  represented  by  b  in  Greek  and  Latin, 

as  in  go  =  bus,  bos. 
Numerous  other  illustrations  will  be  found  in  the  tables  which  follow. 


Table  No. 

X. 

I.  NOUKS  AND  ADJECTIVES. 

SANSKRIT. 

ZEND. 

GREEK. 

LATIN. 

ENGLISH. 

pitar 

patar 

pater 

pater 

father. 

matar 

matar 

meter 

mater 

mother. 

tata 

. 

tetta 

tata 

father. 

nana 

.     .     . 

nanna 

. 

mother,  aunt. 

hhratar 

bratar 

phratria  (a  clan) 

frater 

hrother. 

svamr 

qmha/r 

.    .    . 

soror 

sister. 

duhitar 

dttghdhar 

thugater 

.     .     . 

daughter. 

naptar,  napat 

napa 

anepsios 

nepos 

grandson,  cousin 

naptri 

napti 

neptis 

grand-daughter. 

demr,  devara 

. 

daer 

. 

husband's  brother 

snusha 

.     .     . 

nuos 

nurm 

daughter-in-law. 

jamatar 

zarmta/r 

gambros 

gener 

son-in-law. 

ivaswa 

qaiwa 

hekw-oa 

aocer 

father-in-law. 

Svairu 

heJcura 

soerus 

mother-in-law. 

pitrwya 

.     .     . 

patrbs 

patritm 

father's  brother. 

sunu 

himu 

huioa 

.     .     • 

son. 

vidham 

.    .     . 

.     .     . 

vidua 

widow. 

ZEND,  GREEK,  AND  LATIN. 


231 


SANSKRIT. 

ZEND. 

OEEEK. 

LATIN. 

ENGLISH. 

mwa 

nara 

amer 

.     .     . 

man. 

jam,  gvia 

jeni 

gum 

.     .     . 

woman. 

vira 

*     .    • 

herds  f 

vir 

hero,  man. 

vlrata 

.    .     . 

virtus 

valonr. 

s'ura 

iura 

*     ■ 

kwrioa     ' 

strong,  hero,  lord. 

rajttti 

.     .     . 

rex 

king. 

rajnt 

.     .     . 

.     .     . 

regina 

queen. 

jaraa 

zaurva 

geras 

old  age. 

jarcm 

ssaorura 

gSron 

old  man. 

yimcm 

yavan 

.     . 

jimenis            , 

young  man. 
Iord,husband,able. 

pati 

paiti 

posis 

potis,  potens 

mistress,  honour- 
,  able. 

patnl 

.     .     . 

potnia 

atirum 

.     .     > 

atmos,  aiitmm 

.     .    . 

breath,  soul, 
vapour, 
wind,  mind. 

an  (to  breathe) 

. 

anemos 

amimus 

krip  (to  make) 

kerefs  (nom.) 

.     .     . 

corpus 

body. 

hridaya 

zaredfiaya 

kardia 

cor 

heart. 

s'iraa 

sara 

kara 

cerebrum 

head,  brain. 

kapala 

kephah 

caput 

head. 

akshi 

ashi 

ops,  Qkos,  Skkos 

oculus 

eye. 

nas,  nasa,  nasika, 

naonha 

nasus,  nares 

nose. 

bhru 

brvat 

ophrm 

eyebrow. 

as,  asya 

aonh 

.     .     . 

OS 

face. 

dat,  drnitam  (aoc.) 

dantan 

odonta  (aoc.) 

dentem  (aco.) 

tooth. 

hanu 

genus 

gena 

jaw,  chin,  cheek. 

nakha 

lonux,  onukhos  \ 
[  feen.)             J 
gomphos 

unguis 

nail. 

Jambha 

.     .    . 

tooth. 

gir 

gerus 

.     .     . 

speech. 

bahu 

bazu 

pekhus 

.    .    . 

arm. 

asthi 

asH 

osteon 

OS 

bone. 

hrmya,  Tefcmis 

kreas 

ca/ro 

raw  flesh,  flesh. 

pad,  pada 

padha 

pus  podSs  {gen.) 

pes  pedis  (gen.) 

foot. 

padati 

.     *     . 

pezos 

pedes  {peditis) 

footman. 

pada 

.     .     . 

pedon 

.    .     . 

field. 

janu 

ehnu 

gonu 

genu 

knee. 

udara 

udara 

.     .     . 

uterus 

beUy. 

jathara 

... 

gaster 

.     .     . 

beUy. 

antra 

.     .     . 

enteron 

venter  ? 

entrails,  belly. 

yakrit 

hepar 

j'ecur 

Uver. 

nabhi 

. 

omphalos 

umbilicus 

nayel. 

sroni 

sracmi 

klonis 

clUnis 

hip,  end  of  spine. 

kukshi 

kokhone 

cox 

belly,  hipbone,etc 

plihan 

splen 

lien 

spleen. 

kesa,  kesa, 
heiara,  keaara 

.    .    . 

.     .     . 

ciBsaries 

hair  of  the  head. 

udhas 

.    •     • 

uthar      [gen.) 

uber 

udder. 

sakrit 

.    •    . 

skor  [skatos. 

stercus 

dung. 

ayua 

.     •    ■ 

aim 

<evum 

life. 

toka,  takman 

. 

tSkos,  teknon 

.     ■     . 

child. 

pasu 

pasu 

pou! 

pecu 

cattle. 

go 

goo 

bus 

bos 

ox. 

sthura 

itaora 

tawros 

tawrus 

buU,  etc. 

aiva 

aspa 

hippos 

equus 

horse. 

avi 

•     ■     ■ 

o'is 

ovis 

sheep. 

aja 

.     .     . 

aiz 

.     .     . 

goat. 

232 


COMPARATIVE  TABLE  OP  SANSKRIT, 


SANSKEIT. 

ZEND. 

aitSEK. 

LATIN. 

ENOLISH. 

avcm 

spa,  itini 

kuSn 

canis 

dog. 

s'vanam  (ace.) 

^panem 

kvma 

canem 

dog  (nom.) 

'ukara,  sukara 

hu 

sus,  hm 

sus 

wolf. 

vrika 

vefirka 

lukos 

lupus 

rihaha 

.     .    . 

arkos 

ursus 

bear. 

lopaiaka 

alopex 

jaokall,  fox. 

mmh,  muska 

.    .    . 

mus 

mus 

mouse. 

vi 

vi 

oionos 

avis 

bird. 

vartika 

ortux 

.     . 

quail. 

hamsa 

khen 

anser 

goose. 

kuhuka,  kokila 

. 

kokkux 

cuculus 

cuckoo. 

karma 

oorax 

corvus 

crow. 

uluka 

■ 

ulula 

owl.. 

tittiri 

.     .     . 

tetrix 

.     .     . 

partridge. 
(Indian  cuckoo, 
1  magpie. 

otter,  water  ser- 

pika 

.    .     . 

.     .     . 

ptea 

udra,  wdra 

.    .    . 

hudros,  enudris 

ahi 

azAi 

ekhis 

anguis 

serpent.       [pent 

karka 

.    .     . 

ka/rkinos 

cancer 

crab. 

sarabka 

.    .     . 

karabos 

• 

locust,  beetle. 

pulttka 

.    .     . 

psulla,  psullos 

pulex 

insect,  flea. 

makshika 

makshi 

muia 

musca 

5^- 

Varuna,  Hearen. 

Vmima 

. 

TTramos 

... 

Dyaus 

.     .     . 

Zeus 

. 

The  Sky,  Zeus. 

divya 

.     .     . 

dws 

divrn 

celestial,  divine. 

Dyaus  pitar 

■     •     • 

Zeus  pater 

(Diespiter 
(Jupiter 

)  Dyaus  the  father, 
/  etc. 

deva 

daeva 

theos  ? 

deus 

god  [in  Zend, 
demon]. 

divasa,  diva 

.    .     . 

.     .     . 

dies 

day,  by  day. 

naktam,  nakta 

■    ■ 

nukta  (ace.) 

noctem  (ace.) 

night. 

ushas 

usha 

eos,  auds 

aurora 

dawn. 

agni 

.     .     . 

ignis 

fire. 

mas,  masa 

maonh 

men,  mem 

mensis 

moon,  month. 

star  (vedic),  tara 

stare 

aster,  astron 

astrum 

star. 

iani 

. 

keraumos 

... 

thunderbolt. 

nabhas 

.     . 

nephos 

nubes 

sky,  cloud. 

abhra 

awra 

ombros,  aphros 

imber 

cloud,  rain,  foam. 

uda,  udaka 

,     .     . 

hiidor 

unda 

water,  wave. 

a?),apas(nom.pl.) 

ap 

.     .     . 

aqua 

water. 

iankha 

konkhos 

concha 

shell,  cockle. 

hima 

zima 

khion,  kheimon 

hiems 

winter,  snow. 

chhaya 

skia 

. 

shadow. 

go,  gmd 

.     .     . 

ge,  gaia 

• 

the  earth. 

kshma 

zem 

khamai 

•     .     * 

earth,  on  the 
ground, 
the  earth. 

kshoni 

kthon 

.     .     . 

kaknd,  kakudmat 

• 

.     . 

caeumen 

peak,  mountain, 
field. 

ajra  (vedic) 

agros 

ager 

dru,  drmna 

dru 

dru,  drmnos 

tree,  wood. 

daru 

dauru 

doru 

*     • 

wood,  spear. 

madhu 

madhu 

methu 

.     .     . 

honey,  wine. 

yava 

yma 

zea 

.     .     . 

bai-ley,  etc. 

andhas  ■ 

.     .    . 

anthos 

plant,  flower. 

ayas 

.     .     . 

.     .    . 

aes 

iron,  copper. 

rajata 

erezata 

arguros 

argentum 

sUver, 

apas 

.     .     . 

.    .    . 

optis 

work. 

ZEND,  GREEK,  AND  LATIN  WOEDS. 


233 


apnas 
pur,  pun 


dvar 
rai 


■  {okas  ?) 


I,  to 


iarTcara,  karJcara 
nau 
antra 
aritar 
ahsha 
Tcahura 
paraau 
asi 

Jeratu  (vedio) 
vanas,  van,  (to 
love) 
kin 
agas 


budJma 
chakra 


sthuna,  sthula 
(thick) 


marmara 
TchaUna,  kkalina 


urja,  urjaa 

OJttS 


kona 
rasa 


stupa 


arjana 
puru,  pulu 

(yedio) 
wu, 
guru 


■a 

TOL.  II. 


xclemana 


aphenos 
pSlis 


jffafm 


na 
M^man 


[dom) 
khratu  (wis- 


buna 


stuna 


hana 


Foikos 
thwa 

hupms 


axon 
xuron 


kratos 


thumos 


tvphos 
halamos 


humie,  kumbos 

surinx 

(mormuro  (to    \ 
\  murmur)        ) 

khalmos 
lankho  (to         ) 
\  strangle)        j 

orge 

augS 

makhl  (battle), 

makhaira 

(sword,  knife) 


gmaa 
drosoi 
kupe, 
iwmios 


eurus,  platua 
barus 


opes 


fores 
res 

sopor,  somnus 


calx 
navis 


venus,  venuBtas 

fumus 
fundus 
circles 


suswrrus 
murmur 

ango  (to  affict) 


mactare  (to 
kiU) 


folium 

plus 

gravis 
gravius 


BNQLISH. 

wealth, 
city. 


house,  Tillage. 

door. 

thing,  possession. 


/stone,  anvil, 
\  thunderbolt. 

limestone. 

ship. 

oar. 


axe. 

sword. 

strength. 

beauty,  Venus. 

road. 

sin,  guilt. 

smoke,  spirit. 

bottom. 

wheel,  circle,  etc. 

incense,  smoke. 

reed. 


pillar. 


jar. 
/sound,  pipe, 


murmur. 

bridle,  etc. 
straits. 


[sion. 


sap,  power,  pas- 
brilliance. 

•sacrifice. 

old. 

ornament,  world, 
corner, 
liquid,  dew. 
hole,  well, 
mound, 
flower,  leaf, 
earning,  work. 

much,  more. 

broad, 
heavy, 
heavier, 
heaviest. 

16 


234 


OOMPAEATIVE  TABLES  OF  SANSKRIT, 


SANSKRIT. 

ZEND. 

GHEEK. 

LATDT. 

ENGLISH. 

varishtha 

. 

aristos  ? 

. 

best. 

laghu ' 

elakhus 

levis 

ligbt,  small. 

laghishtha 

dahhiatoa 

levissimm 

lightest. 

mahan 

.    .    . 

megas 

magnus 

great. 

maJnyan 

meizon 

major 

greater. 

manhishtha       \ 
(Tedic)           ] 

megistos 

maximus 

greatest,  vener- 
able. 

tahu 

pakhus 

great,  thick. 

aiu 

okus 

ocior 

swift,  swifter. 

mridu 

iradus 

soft,  slow. 

tanu 

■     •     ■ 

tenuis 

slender. 

rudhira 

eruthros 

ruber 

blood,  red. 

gharma 

.     .     . 

thermos 

formus 

heat,  hot. 

iushha 

Mskw,  hmJea 

.     .     . 

siccus 

dry. 

^urna 

pleos 

plenus 

fuU. 

dtrgha 

dolikhos 

long, 
barbarous. 

hmrlara,  varlara 

tariaros 

iarbarus 

soma 

hama 

homos 

similis 

Hke. 

sthira 

stereos 

.     t     . 

firm. 

bala  (strong,      ) 
strength)        ] 

.     .     . 

.     .     . 

tvalidus  {valeo,  \ 
(to  be  strong)  / 

strong. 

dakshina 

dashina 

dexios 

dexter 

right  (side). 

ruma 

nava 

neos 

novus 

new. 

sami 

•     .     . 

hemi 

semi 

half. 

maihya 

maidhya 

mesos 

medius 

middle. 

ekatara 

hekateros 

one  of  two. 

satya 

eteos 

.     .     . 

true. 

svada 

hedus 

svavis 

sweet. 

ama 

omos 

raw. 

uttara 

hmteros 

subsequent. 

pivan,  pina 

pirn 

fat. 

dhrishta 

thrasus 

*     . 

bold,  rash. 

ardra 

ardo 

•     .    . 

moist,  to  moisten. 

priini 

perknos 

speckled.         [ful. 

kalya,  Tcalyana 

kalos 

.    . 

agreeable,  beauti- 

palita 

polios 

pallidus 

hoary,  pale. 

mMla  (dirt),       | 
malina           ] 

Imla 

melas 

malus 

dirty,  black,  bad. 

kelaims 

icaligo  (dark-    | 
(    ness)            1 
itumultus          \ 
\    (tumult)      / 

black. 

tumula,  tumala 

noisy. 

II.  P 

EEPOSITIO: 

srS,  PARTICLE 

3,  Al^D  PEONC 

)UNS. 

sam 

ham 

sun 

con 

with. 

pari 

pairi 

peri 

per 

round. 

ttpari 

vpairi 

huper 

super 

above. 

wpa 

,     .     , 

htipo 

sub 

near,  under. 

prati 

paiti 

pros,  proti 

.     .     . 

towards. 

pra 

fra 

pro 

pro 

before. 

anta/r 

antare 

entos 

inter,  intus 

within. 

apa 

apa 

apo 

ab 

away. 

api 

avi 

epi 

. 

towards,  on. 

abhi 

aibi,  aiwi 

amphi 

towards,  round. 

sama,  samaya 

.     .     . 

hama 

together. 

param,  para 

para 

pera 

.     .     . 

other  side,  beyond 

ZEND,  GREEK,  AND  LATIN  "WOEDS. 


235 


SANSKRIT. 

ZEND. 

GREEK. 

LATIN. 

ENGLISH. 

para 

para 

■     ■     . 

^  past. 

puras,  pura 

paro 

paros 

*     .     . 

before. 

tar  (to  cross),    ' 
tiras 

taro 

terma  (limit) 

trans 

across. 

su 

hv, 

eu 

well. 

dus 

dush 

dus 

iU. 

sumanas 

humananh 

eun}enes 

kindly-minded. 

durmanas 

dtismananh 

dusmenes 

evil-minded. 

nunam 

nu 

nun 

nunc 

now. 

a,  an 

a,  an 

a,  an 

in 

privatiTG  particle. 

na 

na 

ne 

ne  [fas],  nan 

negative. 

nanu 

■ 

nonne 

is  not  ? 

has,  kis 

ko,  ehis 

Us 

quis 

whop 

tiakis,  maJcia 

mS,+chis 

utis 

nemo 

ino  one,  let  no 
j    one. 

metis 

nequis 

Aim,  had 

kat 

U 

quid 

what? 

hataras 

kataro 

poteros 

uter 

which  of  two  ?■ 

itaras 

heteros 

alter 

other. 

uhha 

uia 

ampho 

ambo 

both. 

anya 

anya 

enioi 

.     .     ■ 

other,  some. 

kva,  kuha,  kutra 

(kva,  katha,  \ 
\  kuthra       j 

pu,  ku  (Ionic) 

quo 

where  ? 

kutah 

pothen 

whence. 

kati 

chaiti,  ehvant 

(posoi, 

\  kosoi  (Ionic) 

quot,  quotus, 
quantus 

[how  many  ? 

fati 

tosoi 

tot 

so  many. 

kada 

kadha 

ipote,                \ 
\  kite  (Ionic) 

quando 

when? 

tada 

tadha 

.tote 

~ 

then 

yada 

yada 

hote 

when 

tatas 

.     .     . 

tothen 

thence. 

yatas 

. 

hothen 

whence. 

ittham,              \ 
ittha.  (vedic)     J 

uiti,  avatha 

.     .     . 

item,  ita 

thus 

pasehat,  paacha 

paskat,pasne 

opisthen 

post 

after. 

makshu 

.     .     . 

.     .     . 

max 

quickly.        [fore. 

anti 

anti 

ante 

opposite,  near,  be- 

ati 

.     .     . 

eti 

. 

beyond,  further. 

mithaa 

meta 

.     .     ■ 

mutual,  with. 

cha 

cha 

kai 

que 

and. 

III.  NUMERALS. 


dei 

dva 

dM 

duo 

two. 

trayas 
tisras  (fem.) 

thrayo 
tisharo  (fem.) 

\treis 

tres 

three. 

chatvaras 

ehathwaro 

tessares 

quatuor 

four. 

panchan 

panchan 

pente 

quinque 

five. 

shat 

khshvas 

hex 

sex 

six. 

saptan 

haptan 

hepia 

septem 

seven. 

ttshtan 

astan 

okto 

oeto    ^4. 

eight- 

navan 

navan 

hennea 

novem 

nine. 

dasan 

dasan 

deka 

decern 

ten. 

vimsati 

miaiti 

eikosi 

viginti 

twenty. 

s'atam 

satem 

hekaton 

centum 

hundred 

prathamas 

fratemo 

protos 

primus 

first. 

236 


COMPARATIVE  TABLES  OF  SANSKMT, 


SANSKEIT. 

ZEND. 

OBEEE. 

LATIN 

dvitlyas 

(daiiityo, 
\bityo 

deuteros 

seoimdus 

trifiyas 

thrityo 

tritos 

tertius 

chaturthas,        \ 
turyas               j 

tuiryo 

tetartos 

quartus 

panohathas  (ve- 
^c)rpanchamas 

pukhdho 

pemptos 

quintus 

shaslithas 

Ichstvo 

hektos 

sextus 

mptamas 

haptatlio 

kebdomos 

Septimus 

ashtamas 

astimo 

offdoos 

octmus 

navamas 

(naomo,         \ 
\naumo          j 

hennatos 

nonus 

daiamas 

das'^mo 

dekatos 

decimus 

dvis 

bizhvat,  bis 

dis 

bis 

tris 

(thrizhvat,     \ 
\thris            ] 

tris 

ter 

dvidha 

dikha 

tridha 

•     t 

trikha 

ehaturdha 

tetrakha 

panchadha 

pentakha 

parut 

.     .     . 

perusi 

parufna 

pertisikos 

hyas 

khis 

heri 

hyastana 

.     .     . 

hesternm 

IV.  VE 

EBS  AND  PAE 

uTICIPLE 

dar 

dar 

dero 

. 

da,  dadami 

dadhami 

didomi 

do  ' 

datar 

datar 

doter 

dator 

datri 

doteira 

datrix 

dana 

data,  dathra 

doron 

donum 

dim,  dadhami 

tithemi 

stha,  tisMKdmi 

sta,  liistami 

histemi 

sto 

astham 

esion 

• 

sthaman 

stamen 

misrayami,        ) 
milcshami          j 

.     .     . 

mignumi 

misceo 

star,  strlnomi 

Uar 

'stornumi,         \ 
stronnumi        ] 

sterno 

stariman 

dtarema 

stroma 

stramen 

hhar 

bar 

phero 

fero 

bhara 

pharos,  phortion 

• 

hhu 

bu' 

p/iuo 

fui 

Uh,  lehmi 

leikho 

lingo 

tan,  tanomi 

thanj 

tanuo,  teino 

tendo 

tatana 

tetendi 

jan,  jajanmi 

zan 

gennao 

gigno 

janitar 

zathar 

genetor 

genitor 

janitri 

geneteira 

genetrix 

jata 

zata 

gnatus 

jamis 

gaona 

genos 

genus 

praja,  prajati 

.     .     . 

.     .     . 

progenies 

jna,janami 

za 

gignosco 

gnosco 

jnata 

.     . 

griotos 

(g)notus 

ajnata 

.     .     . 

agnotos 

ignotus 

naman  [jnamari) 

naman 

onoma 

'{g)nomen, 
cognomen 

ENGLISH. 

second. 

tMrd. 

fourth. 

fifth, 
sixth. 


eighth. 

ninth. 

tenth, 
twice. 

thrice, 

in  two  ways, 
in  three  ways. 
in  four  ways, 
in  five  ways, 
last  year, 
of  last  year, 
yesterday, 
of  yesterday. 


to  tear,  flay, 
to  give, 
giver  ^masc.) 
giver  (fem.) 
gift. 

to  place, 
to  stand,  place. 
I  stood, 
strength,  thread. 

to  mix. 

to  spread. 

bed,  litter,  carpet. 

to  bear. 

load. 

to  be,  I  was. 

to  liot. 

to  stretch, 

I  stretched. 

to  beget. 

father. 

mother, 

born,  son. 

birth,  kind. 

progeny. 

to  know. 

known. 

Unknown. 

name,  surname. 


ZENB,  GREEK,  AND  LATIN  'WORDS. 


237 


SANSKRIT. 

ZEND. 

GREEK. 

LATIN. 

ENGLISH. 

tudami 

■      •      ■ 

.      . 

twido 

to  wound,  to  beat. 

tutoda 

. 

. 

iutudi 

I  have  beaten. 

sev,  sap^'' 

. 

sebomai 

to  reverence. 

lubhyaU 

.      .      . 

iliptomai  (to     ) 
\    long  for)      J 

lubet 

/be  desires  (S.) 
(it  pleases.  (L.) 

tup 

.      .      . 

ttipto 

. 

to  hurt,  beat. 

ad 

ad 

edo 

edo 

to  eat. 

ad(ma,  anna 

.    .    . 

iedanos 
(edetus 

•     ■     • 

[eatable,  food. 

vah,  tiahami 

vaz,  vazami 

ocheomai 

veho 

to  carry. 

avakshit 

.     .     * 

vexit 

he  carried. 

shand 

*     .     . 

sca/ndo 

to  go,  ascend. 

Up,  limpami 

.     .     . 

aleipho 

. 

to  anoint. 

sarp 

herpo 

serpo 

to  creep. 

sarpa 

herpeton 

serpens 

serpent. 

vastw 

vas  (to  dwell)    , 

.     .     . 

Fastu 

habitation,  city. 

vas 

vanh 

hetmumi 

vestio 

to  clothe. 

vastra 

vastra 

hesthes 

vestis 

clothing,  garment. 

m 

va 

ad,  aemi 

to  blow. 

vata 

vata 

. 

ventus 

wind. 

pat,  patSmi 

.     .     . 

petomai 

peto 

to  fall,  fly,  seek. 

apaptam 

.     .     . 

epipton 

.     .     . 

I  fell. 

apaptat 

.     .     . 

epipte 

he  fell. 

patatri 

peteinos 

.     . 

winged. 

iad 

sad 

. 

eado 

to  fall. 

sad,  sidSmi 

had 

hezomai 

sedeo 

to  sink,  sit. 

sadas 

hedos 

sedes 

seat. 

chhid,  chhinadmi 

•          • 

sehizo 

scindo 

to  cut. 

chhindanti 

. 

scindunt 

they  cut. 

bhid,  bhmadmi 

. 

findo 

to  cleave. 

bhindanti 

. 

. 

findmit 

they  cleave. 

tarp 

.     .     . 

terpo 

(to  be  satisfied, 
\  please. 

dam 

damao,damnemi 

domo 

to  subdue. 

arindama 

ippodamos 

.     .     . 

(subduer,  of  foes 
\  (S),  horses  (G.). 

labh 

lambana 

to  take. 

lapsye 

lepsomai 

• 

I  will  take. 

anj 

anJ 

.     .     . 

ungo 

to  anoint. 

anktimt 

. 

. 

vmetwrn 

to  anoint.     . 

plu 

... 

pleS 

film,  pluo 

to  swim,  sail, 
flow,  rain. 

man,  manye       \ 
mna,  manami    j 

.     .     . 

mnaomai 

memini 

Ithink,  remember. 

manas 

mananh 

menos 

mens 

mind,  spirit. 

hu,juhomi 

. 

khed 

• 

to  pour  out. 

huta 

. 

khutos 

poured  out,  ofi'ered 

dai 

das 

dakno 

to  bite. 

dashta 

dektos 

bitten. 

liar,  haromi 

Tear 

kraino 

creo 

to  do,  fulfil,  create. 

as,  ase 

ah 

hemai 

.    .     . 

to  sit. 

aste 

hestai 

.     .     . 

he  sits. 

vam                 • 

vam 

emeo 

vomo 

to  vomit. 

«  See  Benfey'E 

Glossary  to  £ 

.V. ;  and  aaapan 

ta  in  R.V.  vii.  8 

3,  8 ;  and  Curtius, 

pp.  474  and  519. 

238 


COMPARATIVE  TABLE  OP  SANSKRIT, 


SANSKRIT. 

ZEND. 

GEEEK. 

LATIN. 

ENGLISH. 

pari 

perdomai 

pedo 

ventris  crepitum 
edere. 

svid 

hidroo 

sudo 

to'sweat. 

sveda 

hidros 

sudor 

sweat. 

ard 

ardeo 

(to  afflict,  he  on 
,  fire. 

svan 

•     .     . 

sono 

to  sound. 

Stan 

sleno 

tono 

fgroan,  sound, 
(  thunder. 

sta/nayitnu 

. 

.     . 

tonitru 

thunder. 

lu 

Im 

luo 

to  cut,  loose,  pay. 

vart 

.' 

-. 

verto 

to  be,  turn. 

varttaU 

.     •     . 

vertit 

he  is,  turns. 

mih 

miz 

omikhed 

mingo 

to  make  water. 

emi  (from  i) 

.     .     . 

eimi 

CO 

I  go. 

mar 

mar 

morior 

to  die. 

mrityu 

merethyu 

. 

mors 

death. 

mrita 

[««!»]  mereta 

mortuus 

dead. 

martya 

mareta 

brvtos 

mortalis 

mortal. 

amrita 

amahrka 

amhrotos 

immortalis 

immortal. 

amritam 

ambrosia 

ambrosia 

food  of  the  gods. 

dars 

derkomai 

.     .     . 

to  see. 

vid,  vedmi 

vid 

feido 

video 

to  know,  see. 

veda 

Foiia 

.     .     * 

I  know. 

vidma 

Fidmen 

vidimus 

we  know,  see. 

vettha 

oistha 

thou  knowest. 

chi,  chiJceti 

. 

scio 

to  perceive,  know. 

pu,  punami 

iputo,  purus     1 
I     (pure)          / 

to  cleanse. 

tap 

tafs 

.     .     . 

tepeo 

to  be  hot. 

praehh,              \ 
prichhami         j 

pares 

precor 

to  ask,  prjiy. 

spas 

spas 

skeptomai 

specie 

to  see,  observe. 

tras 

tares 

treo 

terreo 

to  fear,  irighten. 

nai 

inekus  (a  dead 
1    body) 

necare,  nex       \ 
(death)        j 

to  perish,  kill. 

spari 

. 

lipargo 

to  touch,  scatter. 

masj,  majjami 

t         • 

mergo 

to  sink. 

lag 

lego 

lego 

1  to  touch,  lay, 
/  gather. 

prick  {parch) 

pleko 

plecto 

to  touch,  twine. 

prikta 

. 

plektos 

plexus 

touched,  twined. 

arh 

are) 

■arkho 

. 

to  be  worthy,  rule. 

loch,  loJe 

leusso 

.     .     . 

to  look. 

alalia 

leukos  (white) 

lux 

light. 

ruch 

ruch 

leukos  (white) 

luceo,  lux  (light) 

to  shine. 

vaeh,  vachmi 

vach 

. 

voco 

to  speak,  call. 

vach 

vach 

ops 

vox 

voice. 

talcsh'^^ 

tash 

tikto,  teukho 

texo 

to  fabricate,  beget. 

takshan 

■     .     . 

tekton 

textor 

carpenter,  weaver 

budh 

.     . 

punthanomai 

puto 

to  think,  ascertain 

vap^ 

vap 

htmhaino 

. 

to  weave. 

2'  Compare  the  words  toka,  tahman,  teknon,  in  the  list  of  nouns.       • 
2*  Prof.  Aufrecht  finds  in  the  word  urnavabhi  the  trace  of  an  old  root  vaih,  "  to 
weave,"  which  is  stiU  closer  to  the  Greek  form.     See  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's  Dic- 
tionary, s!<5  voce  urnavSihi, 


ZEND,  GREEK,  AND  LATIN  VEEBS. 


239 


SANSKRIT. 

vrish,  varsha 


bhukta 
krip,  kalp 
bhaj,  hhaksh 


sru,  snnomt 
jiv  ^ 

kshan 

kshi 

guh,  gudh 

gudha  (hidden] 

kir 

pa, 

papau 

pStum  (to  drink) 

gar,jagarmi 

ajigar 

pish,  pinashmi 

piahta 

Aa»mp(to  tremble) 

{fii)dhana 

bhemami 

siv,  sivyami 


adramam 

apSdran 

dU 

adiksham 

adikshata 

ma,  mami,  mime 

matra 


trup,  truph, 


pa 


dis 


GREEK. 

LATIN. 

ENGLISH. 

herse,  erse 

.      .      . 

rain,  dew. 

Fagnvmi 

frango 

to  break. 

fruor  ? 

to  enjoy, 
enjoyed,  fruit. 

fructm 

carpo 

to  cut,  pluck. 

pJiago 

■     •     • 

to  obtain,  eat. 
fto  be  excited, 
{angry,  desirous. 

to  hear. 

cupio 

Mud 

clwo 

Hod 

vim 

to  live. 

venero 

to  love,  -worship. 

kteino,'^           \ 
ktinnumi         ] 

to  kill. 

t  to  dwell,  well- 

eu-kti-menos    \ 
peri-kti-ones    ] 

1  built,  dwellers 
(  around. 

keutho 

to  hide. 

krind 

cerno 

I  scatter,  separate. 

pirn 

bibo,  potare 

I  drink. 

pepoka 

, 

I  have  drunk. 

putos 

potm 

drunk. 

eger,  egeiro 

. 

I  wake,  rouse. 

(he  awoke,  I  am 
{  awake. 

egregora 

•     ■     • 

pinso 

I  pound. 

. 

pistm 

pounded. 

hamptb  ? 

. 

to  bend. 

thcmatos 

.     ■     . 

death. 

phoned 

.     1 

I  speak. 

{kas)suo 

suo 

I  sew,  patch. 

sutus 

sewn. 

necto 

I  bind. 

'{apo)  dranai,  ) 
didraskd          j 

I  run. 

edramon 

. 

I  went,  ran. 

apedrcm 

. 

they  ran. 

deiknmni 

dico 

I  show,  tell. 

edeixa 

dixi 

I  showed,  told. 

edeixate 

dixistis 

ye  showed. 

metreo 

metior 

I  measure. 

metron 

metrum 

a  measure. 

(I  am  ashamed, 
{  I  turn. 

trepo"^ 

•     •     • 

thrupto 

.     .     . 

to  hurt,  break. 

zetd 

.     •     . 

to  strive,  seek. 

.     .     • 

mordeo 

to  rub,  crush,  bite. 

mard 


^5  The  original  root  is  supposed  to  have  been  giv,  afterwards  enlarged  to  gvlv, 
whence  the  Greek  bios,  bioo,  etc.,  and  the  Latin  vivo  were  derived  by  dropping  the 
initial  g.    See  Curtius,  p.  418. 

26  See  vanas  and  venus  above,  p.  233. 

2'  Compare  takshan  and  tektdn,  in  which  also  the  Sanskrit  ksh  is  equivalent  to 
the  Greek  kt,  p.  238  above. 

2'  These  two  roots  differ  in  sense ;  and  perhaps  have  no  affinity. 


240 


COMPAEATIVE  TABLE  OF  SANSKRIT, 


SANSKRIT. 

ZEND. 

QKEEK. 

LATIN. 

ENGLISH. 

mamarda 

.     .    . 

.      .      . 

momordi 

ffl  I'ubbed,  crushed, 
I  bit. 

to'understand, 
(  think  on. 

medh 

medomai 

.     .     . 

nij 

nizo 

to  cleanse. 

ap 

ap 

hapto 

{ad)ipieiscor 

to  obtaiQ,  touch. 

apta 

.     .     . 

. 

aptua 

fit. 

bcmdh 

band 

. 

.■    . 

bind  (root). 

yuj,  ywnajmi 

yw 

zeugnumi 

jiingo 

to  yoke,  join. 

yuMas 

yukhU 

zeuhtos 

jimctua 

joined. 

yuga 

.     .     . 

zugon 

jugam 

yoke. 

liip,  lumpami 

,     .     . 

rvmpo 

to  cut,  break. 

luptas 

.     .     . 

ruptua 

dissolved,  brokrai. 

sach 

hepomai 

aequor 

to  follow. 

bhraj 

.     .     . 

phlego 

fu^geo 

to  shine,  bum. 

bhrijj 

.     .     . 

phrugo 

frigo 

to  roast. 

dhav 

. 

theo 

to  run. 

paoh 

pach, 

pepto 

coquo 

to  cook. 

pakva, 

pSpon,  peptos 

coetus 

cooked. 

lamb,  ramb 

, 

.    •     • 

^labor 

to  fall. 

yj 

yats 

hazomai 

.     . 

to  venerate. 

yajya 

hagios 

. 

venerable,  holy. 

sru,  srcmami 

4 

reo 

to  flow. 

anu,  snaumi 

neo,  nao 

to  flow,  swim. 

stambh 

atemho 

.     . 

to  prop,  shake, 
(to  be  stupefied, 
(  confounded. 

stambh 

.             .             . 

etaphon 

stambha 

■             .             . 

thambos 

.     .     . 

/stupefaction, 
(astonishment. 

tra,  trai 

.             .              . 

Ureo 

traho 

to  deliver,  keep, 
draw. 

mi,  minami,      \ 
minomi              ] 

minutho 

minus 

to  destroy, 
diminish. 

lap 

lakeo 

loqui 

to  speak. 

sraddha 

•                            • 

.     .     . 

credo 

to  believe. 

si,  sete 

i1,saiti,8aete 

JceUai 

he  lies. 

4ank 

•     .     • 

ctmctor 

to  doubt,  delay. 

aneh,  anha 

anlcu 

amkuloa 

uncus 

(to  bend,  crooked, 
(  hook. 

pis' 

* 

poihillo 

pingo 

to  paint. 

gmj 

gonguzo 

.     .     . 

to  murmur. 

"■>  ■■  ,        ., 

m 

ago 

ago 

to  lead,  drive. 

mnj,  {mm-j) 

marez 

oimrgnumi 

.     .     . 

to  wipe. 

vrij,  [varj) 

eirgo 

.     .     . 

to  exclude. 

sthag 

, 

stego 

tego 

to  cover. 

sprih,  [sparh) 

• 

sperkhomai 

.    .     * 

to  haste,  desire. 

hary 

khairo 

i 

nanciacor        \ 

to  rejoice. 

naS 

nai 

...      { 

(nactus,  ob-    > 
tained)           ) 

to  obtain. 

ghar,  gharami,  \ 
jigharnd           ] 

kkrio 

anoint. 

tij 

tij 

stizo 

{di)atinguo 

|to  be  sharp,  pierce, 

\  distinguish. 

tigma 

•    . 

atigme 

sharp,  point. 

triah,  {tarsh) 

taresh 

tersomai 

torreo 

(to  thirst,  be  dry, 
\  roast. 

da,  dyami 

.     .    . 

deo,  didemi 

to  bind. 

ZEND,  GREEK,  AND  LATIN  VEEBS. 


241 


SANSKEIT. 

ZEND, 

GBEEK. 

LATIN. 

ENGLISH. 

daman 

•     •    ■ 

desmos 

.     . 

bond. 

dt 

.     .     . 

diemai,  diomai 

.     .    . 

to  fly,  haste,  chase. 

skhad,  skhand 

.     .    . 

skedanmmii 

.     .     . 

|to  shed,  spiU, 
(  scatter. 

par,  piparmi 

par 

perao 

to  cross. 

par,  piparmi 

par 

pimplemi 

(imjpleo 

toflU. 

pu 

pu 

putho 

puteo 

to  be  putrid. 

bhS 

.     . 

phaino 

•         • 

to  appear. 

bhas 

.     .     . 

phaos 

>     • 

Ught 

hhi,  biihSmi 

.     .     . 

phebomai 

.     > 

to  fear. 

■idh 

.     . 

aitho 

. 

to  burn.         [ful. 

amar 

mared 

. 

memor 

to  recollect,  mind- 

sphalami,           \ 
sphulami           j 

sphallo 

/alio 

to  hesitate,  deceive 

vaksh 

vaksh 

auxo 

augeo 

to  increase. 

gajigami 

go. 

haino 

•    • 

to  go. 

ogam 

eben 

. 

I  went. 

raksh 

alexo 

>     •     • 

to  protect. 

kvan 

.     . 

kanazo 

cano 

to  sound,  sing. 

mifch,  munchami 

.     .     . 

apo  {musso) 

mungo 

to  remove;  free, 
(  wipe. 

atigh 

.     .     . 

steikho 

to  ascend,  walk. 

hlM 

.     .     . 

kekKlada 

.     .     . 

(to  rejoice,  be 
(  wanton. 

sphar,  sphur 

.     . 

aspairo,  spairo 

. 

to  quiver. 

mri,  mrinami 

.     .     . 

marnamai 

to  kiU,  fight. 

Hnomi 

ar 

ornumi 

oriri 

to  go,  rise,  excite. 

arta 

orto 

ortm  (risen) 

he  rose. 

dinj 

sizo 

. 

to  hiss. 

sphurj,  sphurj 

spharagee 

• 

to  thunder,  crack. 

krit 

karet 

kertomeoa 

.  .  . 

(to  cut,  cutting  (as 
(  language). 

nid 

oneidiao 

*  .  . 

to  reproach. 

rod 

radere, 
rodere 

to  scratch, 

.    .     . 

split,  gnaw. 

mam/u 

mainomai 

anger,  to  rage. 

s'am,  a'ram 

kamno 

. 

to  be  tired. 

d&y 

ds' 

daio 

to  divide. 

bharv 

.     .     . 

pherbo 

• 

to  eat. 

"When  the  Zend  word  has  heen  omitted  in  the  proper  column  of  the 
preceding  list,  I  have  not.  found  it  readily  accessible.  It  will  be 
gathered  from  the  list  that  in  many  cases  where  the  Greek  language 
furnishes  words  equivalent  both  in  sound  and  sense  to  certain  Sanskrit 
words,  the  Latin,  as  preserved  to  us,  has  no  words  of  corresponding 
form ;  and  that,  vice  versa,  the  Latin  has  often  forms  corresponding 
to  the  Sanskrit,  where  the  Greek  has  none.  In  all  the  instances  I 
have  adduced,  the  affinity  is,  of  course,  not  equally  certain.  Doubtful 
cases  I  have  generally  indicated  by  a  mark  of  interrogation. 


242 


COMPARISON  OF  SANSKRIT,  ZEND,  GREEK, 


I  now  proceed,  secondly,  to  exhibit  the  resemblances  ■which  exist 
between  Sanskrit,  Zend,  Greek,  and  Latin,  in  respect  of  their  modes  of 
declension  and  conjugation,  as  well  as  generally  in  the  formation  of 
words  from  nominal  and  verbal  roots. 

I  shall  first  of  aU  adduce  as  an  instance  of  this  similarity,  the  first 
and  second  personal  pronouns. 


PERSONAL  PRONOUNS. 


SINGTJIAE. 

Sanskrit. 

Zend.                Greek. 

Latin. 

English. 

NOM. 

ah^m 

azem              Sgo 

ego 

1. 

Ago. 

mam 

mam,  ma        me 

me 

me 

Inst. 

maya 

.    .     .            .    .     . 

by  me. 

Dat. 

m&hy^m, 
me 

siSi  }^-.- 

mihi 

to  me 

Ael. 

m&t 

from  me. 

Gen. 

mam^,  me 

mana,me,m6i  emon,  mou 

mei 

of  me. 

Loo. 

m^yi 

.     .     .          emoi,  moi 

PLtJKAL. 

me 

in  me. 

NoM. 

vaySm, 
,asme  (Vedio) 

vagm              hemeis 

nos 

we. 

Ace. 

asman,  nas 

ahma,  n5        hemas 

nos 

us. 

Inst. 

asmabhis 

ebma                .    .    . 

by  us. 

Dat. 

asmabhySm, 
or  nas 

SS   1  ^^■"^" 

nobis 

to  us. 

Abl. 

^smSt 

...           ... 

. 

from  us. 

Gen. 

SsmakSm,  or  nas  ^hmakSm        bemon 

nostrum 

of  us. 

Loc. 

asmasu 

.     .     .           bemin 

SINGULAR. 

nobis 

in  us. 

NoM. 

twS.m 

turn                su 

tu 

thou. 

Ace. 

twam 

thwam,        \  _„ 
thwa,  te       /  ^^ 

te 

thee. 

Inst. 

twSya 

thwa                 .    .    . 

by  thee. 

Dat. 

tubhyam,  or  te 

taibyo,  t5i,  te  soi 

tibi  ' 

to  thee. 

Abl. 

twat 

thwat               .    .    . 

.    .    . 

from  thee. 

Gen. 

tSva,  te 

fc          1  - 
tb5i                soi 

tui  .    . 

of  thee. 

Loe. 

twayi 

te 

in  thee. 

PLURAL. 

NoM. 

fyuyam, 
yusbme  (Vedio) 

y?^'!^"^       1  hnmeis 
yus               j 

vos 

you. 

Ace. 

ynsbman,  vas 

vao,  TO            humas 

vos 

you. 

Inst. 

yusbmabhis 

kbshma,  vao      .     .     . 

by  you. 

Dat. 

yusbmabyam, 
vas 

yflsmaibya,  |  ^^^^^ 
vo                 ) 

vobis 

to  you. 

Abl. 

yusbmat 

yushmat           .     .     . 

from  you. 

Gen. 

yusbmakam 

fyusbmakgm,)  j^^^j^ 
vo,  vao         ) 

vestrum 

of  you. 

Loc. 

yusbmasu 

.     .     .          humin 

vobis 

in  you. 

AND  LATIN  PRONOUNS  AND  NOUNS. 


243 


Th.e  following  are  examples  of  the  similarity  as  regards  the  declen- 
sion of  nouns  between  the  four  languages  in  question. 


NOUNS  MASCULINE,  ending  in  a. 

Vrika,  "a 

vrolf." 

SINGULAR. 

Smskrit. 

Zend. 

Greek. 

Latin. 

NOM. 

Aco. 
Inst. 
Dat. 
Abi. 
Gen. 
Log. 
Voc. 

vrikas 

Tilkam 

vrikena 

vrikaya 

vrikat 

vrikasya 

vrike 

vrika 

vShrko 

Tehrkem 

vShrka,  vShrka 

vghrkai 

vShrkat 

vehrkahl 

vghrkS 

vehrkS 

lukos 

lukon 

luko 

luko 

luko 

lukon 

luko 

luke 

lupus. 

lupum. 

lupo. 

lupo. 

lupo. 

lupi. 

lupo. 

lupe. 

NoM. 
Aco. 
Voc. 
GE^f. 
Log. 

5  vrikau 

vrikayos 

DUAL 

T^hrka 
vehrkayao 

luko 
lukoin 

1  No  dual. 

Inst. 
Dat.  i 
Abl. 

S:  1  vrikabhyam 

vSkrkaeibya 

hikoin. 

PLUEAL. 

N0M.&      ™;,r-. 

vghrkaonhd 

lukoi 

lupt. 

Ace. 
Inst. 
Dat. 
Abl. 

Gen. 
Log. 

Trikan 

vrikais 

vrikebbyas 

vrikebhyas 

vrikanam 

vjikeshu 

vghrkan 
T^hrkais 

vShrkaeibyd 

vSkrkSnam 
vehrkaeshva 

lukons 
lukois 
'  lukois 
,  lukois 
luk5n 
lukois 

lupOB. 

lupis. 

lupis. 

lupis. 

luporum 

lupis. 

NOUN  FEMININE. 


NoM. 

AcG. 
Inst. 
Dat. 
Abl. 

Gen. 
Log. 
Voc. 


jihva 
iihvam 
jihvSya 
^ihvayai 


jihTayahi 
jihTayam 
jihve 


Jihva,  ' 

'tongue." 

8INQT7LAB. 

hizvSi 

glossa 

lingua. 

hizvam 

glossan 

linguam 

hizvaya 

glosse 

lingua. 

hizvSyai 

gloBse 

liuguffi. 

hizvayat 

glosse 

lingua. 

hizvayeto 

glosses 

linguse. 

hizvSya 

glosse 

lingua. 

hizve,  hizTa 

glossa 

lingua. 

244 


COMPARISON  OF  SANSKRIT,  ZEND, 


NOM. 

Ace. 
Inst. 
Dat. 
Abl. 
Gen. 
Loo. 
Voo. 

NoM. 
Aoo. 
Inst. 
Dat. 
Abl. 
Gen. 
Loo. 


NOUN  MASCULINE,  ending  in  ri. 

SINGULAK. 

Pitri,  "father,"  and  in  the  Zend  column  bhratri,  " brother." '» 


pita 

pitaram 

pitra 

pitre 

pitus 

pitus 

pitari 

pltah 

pitaras 

pitrin 

pitribhis 

pitribhyas 

pitribhyas 

pitriiiam 

pitoishu 


Zend. 

brata 

bratarem 

brathra 

brathre 

brathiat 

brathro 

brathri  ? 

bratarg 

FlURAL. 
brathro 
brathro 
bratarebis 
bratai'Sbyo 
bratarSbyo 
brathram 
bratareshTa  ? 


Greek. 
pater 
patera 
patgri,  patri 
patSri,  patri 
patSri,  patri 
patros 
patgri,  patri 
patSr 


pateras 

patrasi 

patrasi 

patrasi 

pateren, 

patrasi 


Latin. 
pater, 
patrem 
patre. 
patri. 
patre. 
patris. 
patre. 
pater. 


patribus. 
patribus. 
patribus. 
ion  patrium. 
patribus. 


ANOTHER  FORM  OF  NOUN  MASCULINE,  ending  in  ri. 


NoM. 

data 

data 

dSter 

dator. 

Ace. 

dataram 

datarSm 

dotera 

datorem. 

Inst. 

datra 

dathra 

doteri 

datore. 

Dat. 

datre 

dathre 

doteri 

datori. 

Abl. 

datiis 

dathrat 

doteri 

datore. 

Gen. 

datus. 

dathro 

doteros 

datoris. 

Loe. 

dat^ri 

dathri 

doteri 

datore. 

phtbal. 

NoM. 

dataras 

dataro 

doteres 

datores. 

Ace. 

datrin  _ 

dataro 

doteras 

datores. 

Inst. 

datribhis 

datarebis 

dotersi 

datoribus. 

Dat. 
Abl. 

datribhyas     ' 
datribhyas     . 

dataiebhyo 

■  dotersi 
\  dotersi 

datoribus. 
datoribus. 

Gen. 

datrinam 

dathraam 

doteron 

datorum. 

Loc. 

datrishu 

. 

dotersi 

datoribus. 

PRESENT  PARTICIPLE  ACTIVE. 
Bharat,  "supporting."' 


SINGDLAB. 

NoM. 

bharan 

bara^ 

pheron 

ferens. 

Ace. 

bharantam 

barSntem 

pheront^ 

ferentem. 

Inst. 

bharata 

barata 

pheronti 

ferente. 

Dat. 

bharate 

bargntg 

pheronti 

ferenti. 

Abl, 

bharatas 

barantat 

pheronti 

fereate. 

Gen. 

bharatas 

bar&to 

pherontoa 

ferentis 

Loe. 

bharati 

bar^nti  ? 

pheronti 

ferente. 

Too. 

bharan 

pheron 

ferens. 

29  The  paradigms  of  nouns,  etc.,  given  in  Justi's  Handbuch  are  often  incom- 


GREEK,  AND  LATIN  NOUNS,  etc. 


245 


NEUTER  NOUNS. 
Dana,  "  a  gift."     Data,  "  an  ordinance  "  (Zend). 


SINQULAB 

Sanskrit. 

Zend. 

Greek. 

Zatirt. 

NOM. 

danJlm. 

datSm 

doron 

donnm. 

Aoc. 

danSm 

datem 

dorou 

donum. 

Inst. 

danena 

data 

doro 

dono. 

Dat. 

danaya 

datai 

doro 

dono. 

Abl. 

danat 

datat 

d5r5 

dono. 

Gen. 

danasya 

datahS 

doron 

doni. 

Loc. 

dane 

dati 

d6r5 

dono 

Too. 

dan5 

data, 

doron 

donum. 

NEUTER  NOUN  ending  with  a  consonant. 

Naman, 

"  a  name." 

SINGULAK. 

NoM. 

nama 

namS 

8n8ma 

nomen. 

Ace. 

namS 

nama 

Snoma 

nomen. 

Inst. 

namna 

namSna 

onomati 

nomine. 

Dat. 

namne 

namaine 

onomati 

nomini. 

Abl. 

namnas 

namanat 

onomati 

nomine. 

Gen. 

namnas 

namand 

onomatos 

nominis. 

Loc. 

nanrni 

namaini 

onomati 

nomine. 

Voc. 

naman 

nama 

ouoma. 

nomen. 

PLUKAL. 

NoM. 

namani 

nameni 

onomata 

nomina. 

Ace. 

namani 

naman,  nameni 

onomata 

nomina. 

Inst. 

namSbhis 

namenis 

onomasi 

nominibus. 

Dat. 

namSbhyas 

namabyS 

onomasi 

nominibns. 

Abl. 

namabhyas      j 

onomasi 

nominibus. 

Gen. 

namnam 

namanam 

onomatsn 

nominum. 

Loo. 

namasu 

namahra 

onomasi 

nominibus. 

The  forms  of  conjugating  verbs  in  Sanskrit  and  Greek  have  a  re- 
markable resemblance,  particularly  in  those  Greek  verbs  in  mi,  in 
which  reduplication  of  the  consonant  of  the  root  takes  place  in  the 
present  and  imperfect  tenses.  Greek  as  well  as  Sanskrit  has  the 
augment  in  ^  =  a  in  the  imperfect  and  aorist,  and  the  reduplication  of 
the  consonant  in  the  perfect.  The  most  striking  instance  of  resem- 
blance is,  perhaps,  the  root  da,  or  do,  '  to  give ' ;  which  I  subjoin, 
together  with  several  other  examples ;  adding  occasionally  the  Latin 
forms,  and  the  Zend  also,  where  they  are  easily  accessible. 


plete,  in  consequence  of  all  the  forms  of  particular  words  not  being  found  in  the  Zend 
Avesta,  and  the  fact  that  there  is  no  native  grammar  of  Zend  extant.  Compare  the 
Tables  in  Schleicher's  Compendium,  pp.  576,  ff. 


246 


COMPARISON  OF  SANSKRIT, 


THE  VERB  to  give. 

Present  Tense. 

Sanslcrit. 

Zend.                       Greek. 

Latin. 

dadami 

dadahmi                didomi 

do. 

Sing. 

dadasi 

dadhahi                  didos 

das. 

dadati 

dadhaiti                  didosi 

dat. 

dadvaa 

... 

Dual       < 

datthas 

.     .     .                   didoton 

dattas 

.    .     .                  didoton 

dadmas 

dadgmahi              didomen 

damns. 

Plukal    ■ 

dattba 

.     .    .                   didote 

datis. 

dadati 

dadSnti  ?                didousi 
Imperfect. 

dant. 

adadam 

.     .    .                    edidon 

dabam. 

Sing. 

adadas 
adadat 

edidSs 
edido 

dabas. 
dabat. 

DOAL 

adadva 

.    .    . 

adattam 

edidoton 

.    .    . 

adattam 

edidoten 

. 

adadma 

edidomen 

dabamus 

Plural    ■ 

adatta 
adadus 

edidote 
edidosan 

dabatis. 
dabant 

TMrd  Preterite. 

adam 

.    ,    .                    edon 

Sing. 

adas 
adat 
adava 

edos 
edo 

Dual 

adatam 
adatam 
adama 
adata 

edoton 
edoten 
edomen 

Plukal 

cdote 

,adus 

edosan 

Eeduplioated  Preterite. 

SansJcrit.                    Greek. 

Latin. 

( 

dSdau                    dedoka 

dedi. 

S 

ING.          < 

daditha                  dedokas 

dedisti. 

( 

dadau                    dedoke 

dedit. 

f 

dadiva                    .     .    . 

I 

)UAL           J 

dadathus                dedokaton 
dadatus                   dedokaten 

•     •     ■ 

{ 

dMima                   dedokamen 

dedimus. 

P 

LUEAL      I 

dada                      dedokate . 

dedistis. 

dadui 

i 

dedokasi 

dederunt 

The  subjunctive  and  precative  moods  of  the  Sanskrit  also  answer 
nearly  to  the  optatives  of  the  present  and  aorist  in  Greek  :  thus, 

Subjunctive. 

Sanskrit. 

idddyam 
didyas 
dadyat 


Greek. 

Samskrit. 

Greek. 

didoien. 
didoies. 
didoie. 

Pluk. 

C  dadyama 
(  dadyata 
( dadyus 

didoiemen 

didoiete. 

didoiesan. 

GBEEK,  AND  LATIN  VERBAL  FOEMS. 


247 


Precative. 

Sanskrit. 
deyasam 
deyas 
deyat 

Greek. 
doien, 
doies. 
doie,  etc 

Sing. 


There  is  also  a  resemblance  in  the  Greek  future  doso,  "  I  will  give," 
and  the  future  particle  dosbn,  to  the  Sanskrit  dasyami  and  dasyan  ; 
and  a  perfect  identity  in  the  Latin  gerund,  datum,  with  the  Sanskrit 
infinitive  datum.  The  affinity  between  the  Sanskrit  form  datri,  "  a 
giver,"  or  "  one  who  will  give,"  (which  makes  daturas  in  the  plural), 
and  the  Latin  future  particle  daturus,  is  also  striking. 


THE  VEEB  to  place. 


Present  Tense. 

Imperfect. 

Sanskrit. 

Greek. 

Sanskrit. 

Greek. 

[  dadMmi 

tithemi. 

'  adadham 

etithen. 

Sing. 

<  dadhasi 

tithes. 

Sing. 

adadhas 

etithes. 

(  dadhati^ 

tithesl. 

; adadhat 

etithe. 

i  dadhvas" 

. 

■ adadhva 

.    .     . 

Dual 

■j  dhatthas 

titheton. 

Dual 

adhattam 

etitheton. 

(  dhattas 

titheton. 

adhattam 

etitheten. 

?  dadhmas 

tithemen. 

1  adadhma 

etlthemen 

Plub. 

1  dhattha 

tithete. 

Plub. 

adhatta 

etithete. 

( dadhati 

titheisi. 

Third  ] 

Sanskrit. 
^adham 

Preterite 

, adadhus 

Greek. 
ethen. 

etithesan. 

Sing. 

<  adhas 
( adhat 
1  adhava 

ethes. 
ethe. 

Dual 

■|  adhatam 
(  adhatam 
I  adhama 

etheton. 
etheten. 
ethemen. 

PlutiaTi    ^  adhata 

ethete. 

(adhus 

ethesan. 

Sing. 


Dual 


PlUEAL 


THE  VEEB  to  spread. 
Present  Tense. 


Sanskrit, 

strinomi 

striuoshi 

strinSti 

strinuvas 

strinuthas 

strinutas 

strinumas 

strinutha 

strinvanti 


Greek. 
stronnumi 
stronnus 
stronnusi 

stronnuton 

stronnnton 

etronnumen 

stronnute 

stronnusi 


Latin. 
sterno. 
sternis. 
stemit. 


stemimus 
stemitis. 
stemunt. 


248       COMPAEISON  OF  SANSKRIT,  GEEEK,  AND  LATIN  VEEBS. 


Sing. 


Dual 


PHIKAL 


Imperfect. 

Bemskrit. 

Greek. 

Latin. 

astrinavam 

estronnim 

sternebam. 

astfinos 

esti'onnus 

Bteraebas. 

astrinot 

estronnu 

stemebat. 

aBtrinuva 

.    . 

.    .    . 

astrinutam 

estronnuton 

.     .     . 

astjinutam 

estronnuten 

.    .    . 

aBtfinuma 

estronnumen 

Bternebaraus. 

astrinuta 

estronnute 

stornebatis. 

astjinvan 

estronnusan 

stemebant. 

SiNO. 


Dual. 


Plural 


Sing. 


Dual. 


Plural 


THE  VEEB  to  creep. 
Present  Tense. 


Barpami 

Barpasi 

sarpati 

sarpavas 

Barpatbas 

Barpatas 

sarpamas 

parpatha 

sarpanti 


asarpam 


herpo 
berpeis 


asarpat 

asarpaTa 

asarpatam 

asarpatam 

aBarpama 


aeaipan 


berpeton 

herpeton 

berpomen 

berpete 

berpouBi 

Imperfect. 

heirpon 
beirpes 
heirpe 

beirpeton 

heii-peten 

heirpomen 

heirpete 

heirpon 


serpo. 
serpts. 
serpit. 


serpimuB. 

serpitis. 

serpunt. 


serpebam. 

serpebas. 

serpebat. 


serpebamus. 

Berpebatia. 

serpebant. 


Subjunctive,  optative,  and  future  (Latin). 


Sing. 


Pluhal 


Barpeyam 

sarpes 

sarpet 

sarpema 

sarpeta 

sarpeyuB 


berpoimi 

berpois 

herpoi 

hei'poimen 

herpoite 

berpoien 

Perfect. 

beirpa 

Participles. 


Berpem. 

serpes. 

serpet. 

serpemufl. 

Berpetis. 

serpent. 


Berpsi. 


NoM.        sarpan 
Aco.         sarpantam 
Dat.        sarpate 


berpon 

berpfinta 

bei'pfinti 


.  serpens. 

sei'pentem. 

serpenti. 


COMPARISON  OF  SANSKEIT,  ZEND,  GEEEK,  AND  LATIN  VERBS.    249 


Sanskrit. 
Nou.    sarpantas 
Dat.    sarpadbhyas 

Greek. 
herpontes 
herpousi 

Zatin. 
eerpentes, 
Gerpentibus 

THE  VERB  to  be. 

Present. 

Sanskrit.          Zend.                 Greek, 

Latin. 

Sing. 

aemi                 ahmi                 eimi,  emmi       sum, 
asi                    ahi                    eis,  essi            es. 
asti                  a^ti                   esti                  est. 

Dual. 

'  evas 
sthas 
'  stas 

.     .                 eston 
.     .                  eston 

' 

Pluk. 

r  smas                mahi                 esmeu 
stha                 ^ta                     este 
[  santi                hSnti                  eisi 

sumus. 

estis. 

sunt. 

SiNQ. 

Plub. 

astu 
santu 

Imperative. 

esto 
estosan 

Imperfect. 

esto. 
sunto. 

Sing. 

[  asam 

asis 

(asit 

en 

es,  estha 
en 

eram. 

eras. 

erat. 

Dual. 

f  asva 

astam 
[  astam 

e'tou 
eten 

• 

Plue. 

[  asma 

astha 

1  asan 

emen 

ete 
esan 

eramus. 

eratis. 

erant. 

THI 

3  VERB  to  stand. 

Present. 

SiNO. 

Plxjk. 

f  tishthami 
tishthasi           1 
( tishthati           1 
r  tishthamas 
j  tishthatha 
( tishthanti         1: 

.     .                 histemi 
listahi              histes 
listaiti              histesi 
.     .                 histamen 
.     .                 histate 
listgnti             histasi 

sto. 

Btas. 

Stat. 

stamus. 

statis. 

stant. 

THE  V 

ERB  to  show  or  say. 
Preterite. 

Sing. 
Pluh. 

Sanskrit. 
[  adiksham 

adikshas 
[  adikshat 
r  adikshama 

adikshata 
I  adikshan 

Greek. 
edeixa 
edeixas 
edeixe 
edeixamen 
edeixate 
edeixan 

Latin. 
dixi. 
dixistis. 
dixit. 
diximus. 
dixistis. 
dixerunt. 

VOL.  II. 

] 

\1 


250 


COMPARISON  OP  SANSKRIT,  GREEK, 


The  following  are  additional  examples  of  similarity  of  form  in  the 
past  tenses,  eombined  in  most  cases  with  identity  of  sense. 


Sanskrit. 

Greek. 

Zatin. 

English. 

avakshit 

,    , 

vexit 

he  carried. 

akshipsi  [I  threw] 

Bcripsi 

I  wrote. 

apaptam 

epiptou 

,     , 

IfeU. 

apatam 

epeson 

I  fell. 

astham 

esten 

,    , 

I  stood. 

The  subjoined  instances  exhibit  the  similarity  in  the  formation  of 
the  reduplicated  perfect  between  the  Sanskrit  and  the  Greek. 


SANSKRIT. 

GREEK. 

Moot. 

Perfect. 

English. 

Present. 

Perfect. 

English. 

lip 

lilepa 

I  anointed 

leipo 

leloipa 

I  left. 

s-ak 

^a^aka 

I  was  able 

derk5 

dedorka 

I  saw. 

tup 
tuph 

tutopa      \ 
tutopha   J 

I  injured 

tupto 

tetupha 

I  struck. 

tap 

tatapa 

I  heated 

thapto 

tetapha 

I  buried. 

(from  tapho.) 

I  add 

some  examples  of  conformity  between  the  Sanskrit  infinitive 

and  the  Latin  supine 

Sanskrit 

Latin. 

English. 

Sanskrit. 

latin. 

English. 

sthatum 

statum 

to  stand. 

janitum 

genitum 

to  beget. 

anktum 

uactum 

to  anoint. 

etum 

itum 

to  go. 

Tamitum 

vomituin 

to  Tomit. 

svanitum 

sonitum 

to  sound. 

jnatum 

notum 

to  know. 

startum 

stratum 

to  spread. 

yoktum 

junctum 

to  join. 

sarptum 

serptum 

to  creep. 

peshtum 

pistum 

to  pound. 

The  form  of  the  Sanskrit  desideratives,  though  not  the  signification, 
is  found  in  Greek  and  Latin :  thus  we  have  gignosco  (Greek),  and  nosco 
(Latin),  answering  to  Jijndsdmi,  "I  desire  to  know;"  and  again, 
mimneskd  and  [re]mimseor,  answering  to  mimnasami,  "I  desire  to 
remember." 

Again,  Greek  words  like  paipaUo,  daidallo,  paiphasso,  pimpTemi, 
pimpremi,  etc.,  though  without  the  meaning,  have  the  form  of  Sanskrit 
intensives,  like  hohhu,  hamhhram. 

In  regard  to  the  participles,  also,  there  is  a  remarkable  coincidence 
between  the  Sanskrit  and  the  Greek.  Some  of  the  participles  of  the 
active  voice  have  been  already  given.  The  following  are  some  other 
specimens. 

PERFECT   PARTICIPLE   ACTIVE. 

Greek.  Sanskrit. 

Mase.  Fern.  Neuter.  Masc.  Fem.  Neuter. 

tetuphos        tetuphuia        tetuphos.     |      tetupiyan        tutupilshi        tutupivat. 


AND  LATIN  VERBAL  AND  NOMINAL  FORMS.      251 

PASSIVE  AND  MIDDLE  PARTICIPLES. 
Qresk.  Sanskrit. 

Present;    diyamanas        didomenos      |     Future,    dasyamanas        dosomenos. 

Sanskrit  (neuter  and  masculine)  bases  in  man  correspond  to  the 
Latin  in  men  :  thus  we  have  sthaman  —  stamen ;  stariman  =  stramen. 
Nominal  forms  in  tra,  also,  are  common  to  Sanskrit,  Greek,  and  Latin : 
thus  the  Sanskrit  aritram,  netram,  irotram,  mdtram,  gatram,  vaJctram, 
khanitram,  vaiitram,  varutram,  correspond  in  form  to  the  Greek  niptron, 
pkctron,  lehtron,  pheretron,  lutron,  arotron,  and  the  Latin  mulctrum, 
spectrum,  aratrum. 

The  nominal  form  in  nds  is  common  to  Greek  and  Sanskrit :  thus, 
the  hupnos  (sleep)  of  the  one  answers  to  the  svapnas  of  the  other. 

Passive  past  participles  in  ta  are  common  to  Sanskrit  with  the  other 
languages:  thus, 

Zend.  Greek.  Latin. 


jnatas 

ajnatas 

dattas 

dat'o 

gnotos 

agnotos 

dotSs 

(g)notus 
ignotus. 
datus. 

yuktas 
labdhas- 

yukhto 

zeuktos 
leptos 

junctus. 

Compare  also  hhagnas  in  Sanskrit,  with  stugnos,  terpnos,  in  Greek. 
Abstract  or  other  substantives  in  ^d,  tdt,  tes,  tas,  are  also  found  in 
them  all :  thus, — 

Sanskrit..                 Zend.                        Greek.  Latin. 

nava-ta                 amgr^tat                 neo-tes  novi-tas. 

sama-ta                  nparatat                  homo-tes  facili-tas. 

laghu-ta.               isharestat               platu-tes  levi-tas. 

Forms  in  tis  occur  both  in  Sanskrit  and  Greek ;  but  the  latter  haa 
mostly  sis  for  the  tis  of  the  former  :  thus, 

Sanskrit.  Greek. 

ma-tis'  me-tis. 

uk-tis  phS-tis. 

trip-tis  terp-sis. 

yuk-tifl  zeuk-sis  (=zeuxis)_ 

Instances  of  adjectives  similarly  formed  : 

Sanskrit.                       Greeks  Latin.. 

malinas                      pedinos  marinus. 

kulinas                       skoteinos  ferinus. 

divyas                         h^lios  egregius. 

pitryas                         patrios  patrius. 

ya^asyas                     thaumasios  censorius.. 


Porms  in  las  and  rm : 

Sanskrit. 

Greet:. 

chapSlas 
taralas 

eikelos 

trapelos 

madhuras 

pboberos 

Bubhras 

psukhros 

bhadras 

lampros 

252  COMPARISON  OF  SANSKRIT,  GREEK, 


Zatin. 
tremulus. 
stridulus. 

gnarus. 
purue. 

Feminine  nouns  are  also  similarly  formed,  as  follows : 
Sanskrit.  Gruk.  Latin. 

indrani  theaina  matrona, 

vSrunani  lukaina  patrona. 

rudranT  despoina  .     .     . 

Abstract  nouns  are  also  formed  in  Greek,  as  in  Sanskrit,  by  changing 
the  vowel  of  the  root :  thus,  from  the  roots  Ihid,  krudh,  and  luhh,  are 
formed  the  nouns  hheda,  krodha,  and  lolha ;  and  so  in  Greek  we  have 
tromos,  phohos,  trohhos,  nomas,  loipos,  from  tremo,  phebomai,  trehho,  nemo, 
and  leipo. 

We  have  examples  of  nouns  in  Latin  and  Greek  resembling  Sanskrit 
nouns  in  ya,  such  as  these  : 

Sanskrit.  Zatin.  Greek. 

madburyam  mendacium  theopropion. 

naipunyam  principium  monomacMon. 

Simple  radicals,  or  radicals  slightly  modified,  are  used  in  all  three 

languages  at  the  end  of  compound  nouns  and  adjectives : 

Sanskrit.  Greek.  Zatin, 

dharma-vid  p6do-trips  artifex. 

netra-mush  pros-pbux  index, 

brabma-dvisb  bou-plex  princeps. 

The  use  of  eu  and  dus  in  Greek  corresponds  to  that  of  su  and  dus  in 

Sanskrit :  thus, 

Sanskrit.  Greek. 

sukaras  eupboros. 

sulabbas  eutrophos. 

dustaras  dustropoa. 

dussabas  duspboros. 

The  following  are  instances  of  the  employment  of  a,  an,  i,  or  in 
privative,  in  the  three  languages  : 

Sanskrit.  Greek.  Zatin. 

ajnata  agnotos  ignotus. 

an-isbtbas  an-osios  ineffabUis. 

The  subjoined  adjectives  are  formed  in  a  manner  nearly  alike  in 
Sanskrit  and  Latin  from  adverbs  of  time  : 


Sanskrit.  Zatin. 

hyastanas  besternus. 

Bvsistanas  crastinus. 


Sanskrit.  Zatin. 

sayantanas  yespertinus. 

sauatauas  sempitemus. 


AND  LATIN  FORMS,  AND  COMPOUND  "WORDS. 


253 


The  use  of  various  sorts  of  compound  words  is  common  to  Sanskrit 
with  Greek  and  Latin.     Thus  we  have, 


Sanskrit. 
triratram 
svapnakaras 
sadabhramas 
arindamas . 
devadattas 
mahamStis 
bhuridhanas 
bShumurttis 
chatushpad 
sarupas 


Oreei. 
trinuction' 
bnpnopboroa 
aeiplanos 
ippodamos 
theodotos 


Zatin. 
trinoctium 
sonmifer 


magn  animus 


polukbrusos 

polumorpbos  multiformie 

tetrapoTis  quadrupes 

Bummorplios  conformis 

Forms  in  ana,  nouns  and  adjectives  : 

Sanskrit.  Greek. 

darpanam  drepanon. 

yabanam  organon. 

^obhanas  hikanos. 

Forms  in  aka  or  ika  : 


a  period  of  three  nights. 

bringing  sleep. 

always  wandering. 

foe-,  steed-subduing. 

god-given 

high-souled. 

very  rich. 

multifonn. 

four-footed. 

of  the  same  form. 


Sanskrit. 


dharmikas 
Forms-  in,  ani : 

Sanskrit. 
dhanavau 
dhanavantam 


Greek. 
polemikos 
rhetorikos 


Zatin. 
medicus. 
belUcus, 


Greek. 
doloeis. 
doloenta. 


Sanskrit  nouns  ending  in  as,   corresponding  to   Greek  and  Latin 
nouns  of  the  third  declension : 


Sanskrit. 


Greek. 
pseudos 
medos 
kedos 


Zalin. 
foedus. 
scelns 
opus. 


In  Greek  and  Latin  the  comparative  and  superlative  degrees  are 
formed  very  much  as  in  Sanskrit.  The  Greek  has^  however,  two 
forms  like  Sanskrit ;  the  Latin  only  one. 

Sanskrit.            Zend,  Greek,                 Zatin.               English. 

bhadra                husko  kleinos                longus              \ 

bhadra-tara        husko-tara  kleino-teros        long-ior           J  different  meanings 

bhadra-tama       s'pentot^ma  kleino-tatos         longis-simus     ) 

svadns                   .     .     .  hediis                  suavis                 sweet. 

svadiyan               .     .     .  hedlon                suavior               sweeter, 

svadishthas           .     .  hedistos              suavissimus         sweetest. 

In  Grreek  and  Latin,  as  in  Sanskrit,  verbs  are  componnded  with 

prepositions. 

Sanskrit.  Greek.                             Zatin. 

apa-gachhati  ap-erkhetai                       abs-cedo. 

san-gachhati  sun-erkhetai                     con-venit. 

upa-dadhatL  hupo-tithesl                     sup-ponit. 

pari-bhramyati  peri-erkhetai                     circu-it. 

pra-sarpati  pro-bainei                        pro-cedit. 


254  AFFINITY  OP  SANSKEIT,  GREEK,  AND  LATIN,  NOT 

In  Latin,  as  in  Sanskrit,  verbs  are  compounded  with,  nouns  or 
adjectives. 

Sanslcrit.  Latin. 

parikhlkaroti  significat. 

krishnikaroti  magnificat. 

In  Greek  and  Latin  adjectives  agree  in  gender  and  number  with, 
the  noun,  just  as  in  Sanskrit :  thus, 

Scmshrit.                 QreeTe.  Latin.                    English,. 

NoM.  Sin.    svadiis  svapnSs         hedns  hupnoa  suaVis  somnus  sweet  sleep. 

Aco.  Sin.      sTadiim  svlpn^m      hedum  hupnon  suavem  somnum  sweet  sleep. 

NoM,  Plu.    evadSvas  svapnas      hedues  hupnoi  suaves  somni  sweet  sleeps. 

NoM.  Sin.     nSvo  data                 neos  doter  novus  dator  new  giver. 

Aco.  Sin.      na-v&m  datarSm        neon  dotera  novum  datorem  new  giver. 

We  must,  therefore,  conclude  from  the  illustrations  which  have 
been  given  above,  of  the  resemblances  existing  both  in  roots  and  in- 
flections, between  the  Sanskrit,  the  Zend,  the  Greek,  and  the  Latin 
(viewed  in  contrast  with  the  almost  total  want  of  similarity  between 
the  Sanskrit  and  other  tongues,  e.g.  the  Arabic),  that  there  is  a  close 
affinity  between  the  various  members  of  the  former  group  of  languages ; 
and  that  in  fact  they  are  all  descended  from  one  common  stock. 

It  may,  however,  be  objected  that  the  affinity  which  I  have  been 
seeking  to  establish  between  the  Sanskrit,  the  Greek,  and  the  Latin,  is 
disproved  by  the  fact  that  (while  a  portion  of  the  words  in  these 
languages  are  identical  with  or  akin  to  each  other)  the  great  majority 
of  their  words  are  different.  If  these  languages  had  in  reality  had  a 
common  origin,  their  vocabularies  must,  it  may  be  urged,  have  been 
entirely  or  nearly  homogeneous,  i.e.  must,  with  few  exceptions,  have 
consisted  of  the  same  identical  words,  just  as  is  the  case  with  the 
Bengali,  the  Hindi,  and  the  Mahrattl,  which  are  confessedly  kindred 
dialects.  To  this  I  reply,  First,  that  even  such  a  smaU  proportion  of 
common  words,  combined  with  great  similarity  in  point  of  structure 
and  inflection,  is  sufficient  to  demonstrate  the  common  derivation  of  any 
two  languages  from  one  original  stem,  provided  it  can  be  shown  (as  it 
assuredly  can  in  the  case  under  consideration)  that  neither  the  words  nor 
the  inflections  have  been  borrowed  by  the  one  language  from  the  other. 
Eor  how  could  the  common  possession  by  these  two  supposed  languages  of 
even  a  comparatively  small  stock  of  words  be  otherwise  accounted  for  ? 
This  community  of  words  could  not  be  accidental ;  for  had  there  been 
anything  of  accident  in  the  case,  we  should,  beyond  a  doubt,  have 
discovered  the  same  casual  resemblances  between  other  languages — 


DISPEOVED  BY  MOST  OF  THEIR  WORDS  BEING  DIFFERENT.     255 

between  Sanskrit  and  Arabic  for  instance,  or  between  Greek  and 
Arabic — as  we  discover  between  Sanskrit  and  Greek ;  whereas  in  point 
of  fact  we  discover  scarcely  any  snch  resemblances.  The  difference 
between  Sanskrit,  Greek,  and  Latin,  in  regard  to  the  large  majority  of 
the  words  of  which  their  vocabularies  are  composed,  admits  of  an  easy 
explanation.  The  speech  of  different  branches  of  every  great  race  of 
men  has  (as  I  have  already  in  part  shown  in  p.  32,  f.)  an  inevitable 
tendency,  arising  from  a  great  variety  of  causes,  to  diverge  more  and 
more  from  the  original  type.  This  tendency  is  visible  even  in  India 
itself,  among  men  of  the  same  branch  of  the  Arian  family.  The 
vocabulary  of  the  Vedas  is,  to  some  extent,  different  fi-om  that  of  the 
later  Sanskrit  writings.  Many  words  which  are  common  in  the  former 
have  been  entirely  disused  in  later  times,  while  new  words,  unknown 
in  the  Vedas,  have  been  introduced.  If  the  Nighantus  be  compared 
with  the  Amara-kosha  (which  may  be  supposed  to  contain  the  words 
in  most  general  use  in  later  Sanskrit),  many  nouns  will  be  found  in 
the  former  which  are  wanting  in  the  latter,  as  well  as  in  all  other  more 
recent  vocabularies.  I  may  instance  such  words  as  turn',  '  much ; ' 
napdt,  '  offspring ; '  ffmd  and  jma,  '  earth ; '  hetas,  '  knowledge ; ' 
dktnipa,  '  wise ; '  takman,  '  offspring ; '  etc.,  which  occur  in  '  the 
Mghantus,  but  wiU  be  sought  for  in  vain  in  the  Amara-kosha.  ^  In 
fact,  many  of  the  words  in  the  Nighantus  owe  their  insertion  in  that 
vocabulary  entirely  to  the  fact  that  they  had  become  obsolete  in  later 
times.  Again,  any  one  who  is  familiar  with  the  different  modem 
vernaculars  of  India  must  be  aware  how  much  they  differ  from  each 
other,  not  only  in  their  grammatical  forms,  but  also,  frequently,  in  the 
words  themselves  which  are  employed  by  preference  in  each  to  denote 
any  particular  objects.  Now,  as  we  have  already  seen  (pp.  7,  42),  all 
these  dialects  must  at  one  time  have  issued  from  one  and  the  same 
parent  form  of  speech.  But  if  such  a  divergence  as  this  has  actually 
taken  place  in  dialects  spoken  by  the  different  branches  of  one  people, 

^  The  foUomng  are  additional  words  peculiar  to  the  hymns  of  the  Veda :  A&shna- 
yavan,  atkaryUj  anarvisj  aiiafJudUf  apfur,  aprayu^  amhhrina,  aldtrina,  asasckai, 
a^iridkoyu,  aaridk,  as'uf'uleshani,  Ivat,  rijishin,  evayavan,  /canuica,  leiyedhas,  kunara, 
tunJf'VScfu,  jatubharman,  jenya,  nablianya,  nichumpuna,  nishthidh,  nishshidhraii, 
opasa,  paritakmya,  bJritaj  mehatia,  renukakata,  surudh,  sakshani,  salaluka,  sundhyu^ 
numagatii,  sinaddithti,  tvatra,  etc.  See  my  article  "  On  the  Interpretation  of  the 
Yeda,"  in  the  Joomal  of  the  B.A.S.,  vol.  ii.,  new  series,  pp.  325,  ff. 


256     CAUSE  OF  DIVERGENCES  BETWEEN  COGNATE  LANGUAGES. 

living  in  the  same  country,  under  nearly  the  same  influences  of  soil 
and  climate,  and  professing  the  same  religion ;  must  not  a  much  wider 
divergence  have  of  necessity  arisen  between  the  languages  of  tribes 
separated  for  thousands  of  years,  and  living  in  regions  far  apart  from 
each  other,  under  different  physical  conditions,  and  subject  to  the 
modifying  action  of  different  social,  political,  and  religious  institutions? 

Such  divergences  between  the  languages  of  any  two  or  more  nations 
which  have  sprung  from  one  common  stock  have,  as  I  have  already 
intimated,  an  inevitable  tendency,  at  least  in  the  earlier  stages  of 
society,  to  become  wider  and  more  marked;  so  that  two  dialects  de- 
rived from  the  same  original  form  of  speech,  though  they  at  first 
differed  but  little  from  each  other,  will  thus  almost  necessarily  become 
more  and  more  dissimilar  from  each  other  the  longer  they  have  been 
separated  from  the  parent  root. 

Peculiar  circumstances,  such  as  constant  intercourse,  and  the  posses- 
sion of  a  common  religion  and  a  common  literature,  may,  indeed,  for  a 
period  of  greater  or  less  duration,  avert  such  a  gradual  divergence  in 
language  between  two  separate  nations.  This  state  of  things  is  at 
present  actually  exemplified  in  the  case  of  England  and  America.  But 
these  two  nations  have  only  become  separated  from  each  other  for  a 
comparatively  short  period ;  and  it  would  be  difficult  to  predict  how 
long  their  identity  of  language  may  continue.  So  powerful,  however, 
are  the  causes  which  operate  in  this  case  to  maintain  an  absolute  com- 
munity of  speech,  that  (notwithstanding  the  adoption  in  America  of 
some  new  words,  and  a  considerable  number  of  phrases  unknown  in 
England)  the  two  nations  wUl,  in  all  likelihood,  continue  to  employ 
the  same  dialect  for  many  ages  to  come.  This  result  wUl,  however, 
more  probably  arise  from  the  English  language  undergoing  a  parallel 
alteration  in  both  countries,  than  from  its  continuing  entirely  un- 
changed in  either. 

But  we  must  be  careful  not  to  underrate  the  extent  of  the  funda- 
mental affinity  in  roots  and  words  between  the  Sanskrit,  the  Greek,  the 
Latin,  and  the  other  western  languages  of  the  same  family.  Even  a 
cursory  examination  of  such  works  as  Professor  Benfey's  "Greek- 
Eadical-Lexicon,'"'  Curtius's  "Outlines  of  Greek  Etymology,'"''  or 

"  GrieoMsches  'Wurzellexicon :  2  vols.  Berlin,  1839  and  1842. 
'*  Grundziige  der  GriechiBchen  Etymologie,  second  edition,  1866. 


PEIMITIVE  WOEDS  COMMON  TO  SANSKRIT,  GEEEK  and  LATIN.     257 

Pick's  "Comparative  Dictionary  of  the  Indo-Germanic  Languages,^  is 
suffleient  to  show  that  these  coincidences  are  more  numerous  than 
might  at  first  sight  have  been  supposed,  and  that  it  is  only  an  in- 
sufficient study  of  the  variations  undergone  by  difierent  words  in  the 
several  languages  under  review  which  prevents  our  perceiving  that  a 
considerable,  though  probably  undeterminable,  proportion  of  their 
vocabulary  is  essentially  common  to  them  aU. 

But,  Secondly,  there  is  a  farther  circumstance  by  which  the  original 
affinity  between  Sanskrit,  Greek,  and  Latin,  and  their  ancient  deriva- 
tion from  one  parent  stock,  are  proved ;  which  is  this,  that  it  is  pre- 
cisely those  words  and  elements  which  are  the  most  primitive,  the  most 
fundamental,  and  the  most  essential  parts  of  each  language  which  they 
have  in  common.  I  mean,  First,  those  words  which  express  the 
natural  relations  of  father,  mother,  etc.,  and  kindred  generally; 
Secondly,  the  pronouns ;  Thirdly,  the  prepositions  and  particles ; 
Pourthly,  the  words  expressing  number;  and  Fifthly,  the  forms  of 
inflection.  Thus,  the  words  which  Sanskrit  has  in  common  with 
Latin,  Greek,  and  the  other  members  of  the  Indo-European  stock,  are 
those  which  would  be  in  use  in  the  earliest  stages  of  society,  when 
men  were  simple  and  uniform  in  their  habits  and  ideas,  when  they  had 
few  wants,  few  arts,  little  knowledge,  no  sciences,  no  philosophy,  and 
no  complicated  institutions.  But  after  the  different  tribes  of  the  Indo- 
European  stock  had  departed  in  different  directions  from  their  primeval 
abodes,  and  had  settled  in  distant  countries,  they  became  in  the  course 
of  time  more  and  more  different  from  each  other  in  their  religions,  in 
their  manners  and  customs,  and  in  all  their  modes  of  life.  The  climates 
under  which  they  lived  were  different ;  some  settling  within  the  torrid 
zone,  whUe  others  migrated  into  temperate  or  even  frigid  latitudes. 
The  aspects  of  nature,  too,  were  very  dissimilar  in  thesfe  different 
regions,  some  of  them  being  level  and  fertile,  others  mountainous  and 
unproductive ;  some  situated  on  the  shores  of  the  ocean,  and  others  at 
a  distance  inland.  The  natural  productions  of  these  different  tracts, 
too,  were  various,  as  weU  as  the  animals  by  whom  they  were  tenanted. 
Some  of  these  countries,  for  instance,  produced  rice  and  the  sugar-cane, 
and  were  frequented  by  the  elephant,  the  camel,  the  Hon,  and  the 

'3  Vergleichendes  Worterbuch  der  Indogermanischen  Sprachen,  second  edition, 
1870. 


258  ALTERATIONS  IN  LANGUAGE,  HOW  INTRODUCED. 

tiger ;  while  in  others  these  plants  and  animals  were  not  indigenous. 
In  consequence  of  aU  these  local  influences,  the  temperaments  and 
habits  of  the  men  of  different  nations  became  exceedingly  diversified. 
In  level  and  fertile  countries,  with  hot  climates,  men  became  less  active 
and  etiergetic,  owing  to  the  relaxing  effects  of  the  heat,  and  the 
diminished  necessity  for  labour ;  while  the  frames  of  those  who  settled 
in  colder  countries  were  both  braced  by  the  greater  severity  of  the 
climate,  and  by  the  necessity  of  labour  for  extracting  a  subsistence 
from  the  less  genial  soil.  Men  settled  on  the  shores  of  the  sea 
naturally  became  addicted  to  maritime  pursuits,  from  which  those 
living  inland  w^e  debarred.  In  this  way  different  arts  arose,  different 
sciences  were  cultivated,  and  different  social  and  political  institutions 
were  established.  In  some  countries  the  active  energies  of  the  people 
were  fostered  by  the  existence  of  free  forms  of  government :  in  others 
the  feeling  of  independence,  perhaps  originally  feeble,  was  altogether 
crushed  by  despotism ;  while,  on  the  other  hand,  the  thoughtful  ten- 
dencies which  were  native  to  the  race  found  their  fuU  scope  in 
scientific  pursuits,  or  in  philosophical  and  religious  contemplation. 
With  these  great  and  manifold  changes  in  all  the  conditions  of  life, 
corresponding  alterations  in  language,  intended  to  express  new  objects 
and  new  ideas,  would  be  necessarily  introduced,  which  became  more 
and  more  extensive  and  decided  as  centuries  rolled  on.'*  The  different 
stages  of  this  process  which  I  have  been  describing  are  more  or  less 
distinctly  exemplified  in  the  different  languages  which  have  been 
specified  as  connected  by  aflS.nity  with  the  Sanskrit.  Of  these  lan- 
guages the  Zend  (or  language  of  the  Zend  Avesta)  is  that  which  had 
been  separated  from  the  Sanskrit  for  the  shortest  space  of  time,  and 
subjected  to  the  action  of  the  smallest  modifying  influences,  at  the 
period  when  it  took  the  form  in  which  the  most  ancient  of  the  extant 
Zoroastrian  writings  are  composed ;  and  accordingly,  it  has  a  far  closer 
resemblance  to  the  Sanskrit  than  either  the  Greek  or  the  Latin.  This 
has  been  made  clear  by  the  evidence  which  has  been  already  adduced. 
The  Greek  and  Eatin  languages,  on  the  other  hand,  had  been  sepsirated 

3*  The  divergences,  apparent  or  real,  between  tlie  Arian  languages,  are  due  "to 
alterations,  to  losses  occasioned  by  the  lapse  of  time,  and  also  to  the  incessant  efforts 
(so  to  speak)  of  the  language  to  replace  the  lost  forms,  and  to  follow  step  by  step 
the  gradual  developments  of  the  several  nationalities." — Pictet,  "  Origines  Indo- 
Europfiennes,  ou  les  Aryas  Primitifs,"  p.  6.    See  Appendix,  Note  C. 


ZEND,  GREEK,  AND  LATIN,  NOT  DERIVED  FROM  SANSKRIT.     259 

from  the  Sanskrit  for  a  much  longer  interval  of  time,  and  affected  by 
novel  influences  of  far  greater  potency,  when  they  became  embodied  in 
the  oldest  compositions  which  have  descended  to  us ;  and  they  ac- 
cordingly differ  from  the  Sanskrit,  in  most  respects,  much  more  widely 
than  the  Zend  does. 

I  conclude,  therefore,  from  the  foregoing  considerations,  that  the 
differences  which  exist  between  the  Sanskrit,  the  Greek,  and  the  Latin 
languages,  as  we  find  them  in  their  later  stages,  afford  no  reason  for 
doubting  that  they  had,  at  an  earlier  period,  a  much  more  intimate 
connexion,  and  were,  in  fact,  originally  identical. 

Another  objection  may,  however,  perhaps  be  raised  by  some  person 
looking  at  the  subject  from  an  Indian  point  of  view.  It  is  CLuite  true, 
he  may  urge,  that  an  affinity  exists  between  the  Sanskrit,  the  Zend, 
the  Grreek,  and  the  Latin ;  but  this  quite  tallies  with  what  our  S'astras 
record  (Manu  x.  43,  44 ;  Vishnu-purana,  iv.  3,  p.  375,  quarto  edition 
of  VUson's  translation,  or  vol.  iii.  pp.  294,  f.  of  Dr.  Hall's  edition),'^ 
that  the  Tavanas  (Greeks),  Pahlavas  (Persians),  and  Kambojas,  were 
originaUy  Kshatrtya  tribes,  who  became  degraded  by  their  separation 
from  Brahmans  and  Brahmanical  institutions;  and  it  is  also  quite 
clear  from  the  proofs  which  you  have  adduced  of  affinity  between  these 
languages  and  our  sacred  tongue,  that  the  former  are  mere  Prakrit  or 
Apabhramsa  dialects  derived  from  Sanskrit.  Tour  hypothesis  of  these 
languages,  as  well  as  the  Sanskrit,  being  derived  from  some  earlier 
form  of  speech  now  no  longer  extant,  is  quite  gratuitous ;  for,  what 
the  heretical  Bauddhas  falsely  say  of  their  Apabhramsa,  which  .they 
call  Pali,  is  literally  true  of  Sanskrit,  the  language  of  the  gods,  that 
it  is  that  primeval  and  eternal  form  of  speech '^  from  which  aU 
others  are  derived. 

To  this  I  reply,  that  even  if  Zend,  Greek,  and  Latin  could  be  shown, 
on  the  ground  of  their  affinity  with  Sanskrit,  to  be  derived  from  it,  it 
would  still  be  quite  impossible  for  the  objector  to  prove  on  the  same 
ground  that  Sanskrit  was  the  parent  of  aU  the  languages  which  are 
spoken  by  all  the  tribes  which  have  inhabited  India  or  the  adjacent 
countries.  Arabic,  as  has  been  shown,  is  quite  distinct  from  Sanskrit, 
and  has  scarcely  any  perceivable  affinity  with  it  of  any  kind.    And 

35  See  first  volume  of  this  work,  second  edition,  pp.  481,  £F,  and  486-488. 
'5  See  Mahabbasliya,  as  quoted  aboTe,  p.  161,  note  183. 


260  LATIN  AND  GEEEK  FORMS  NOT 

the  same  is  the  case  with  the  languages  current  in  the  south  of  India, 
the  Tamil,  the  Telugu,  the  Canarese,  and  the  Malayalim  (the  tongues 
spoken  by  the  inhabitants  of  Dravida,  TeKnga,  Karnata,  etc.).  For 
Manu  himself  (as  we  have  already  seen,  p.  151,  n.  1 64)  makes  a  distinction 
between  the  languages  employed  by  the  people  of  India  ;  which  shows 
that  forms  of  speech  of  a  non-Arian,  i.e.  non-Sanskrit,  character  were 
spoken  by  part  of  the  population.  So  that  the  point  which  the  ob- 
jector is,  perhaps,  really  seeking  to  establish,  viz.,  that  the  Arian- 
Indians  are  the  original  progenitors  of  all  the  surrounding  nations,"^  and 
their  language,  Sanskrit,  the  parent  of  all  other  languages,  could  never 
be  proved.  It  cannot  be  admitted,  however,  as  I  have  already  re- 
marked, that  Greek  and  Latin  are  derivatives  from  Sanskrit.  There  is 
no  proof  of  this  theory,  and  all  probability  is  against  it.  The  whole 
grammatical  character  of  Greek  and  Latin  is  that  of  independent 
languages ;  and  any  one  who  wiU  compare  their  structure  and  com- 
position with  that  of  the  Indian  Prakrits,  which  every  one  allows  to 
be  derived  from  Sanskrit,  will  at  once  perceive  the  difference  of  the 
two  cases. 

First. — The  grammatical  forms  of  the  Prakrits  (as  we  have  already 
seen,  p.  69),  have  evidently  resulted  from  a  disintegration  or  simplifi- 
cation of  the  older  Sanskrit  forms.  Thus  (as  we  have  already  seen  by 
the  comparative  tables,  introduced  above,  pp.  76,  ff.),  the  Sanskrit 
words  7rmMa,  gupta,  sutra,  marga,  wrtha,  iresJitha,  drishti,  fmhpa, 
dakshina,  madhi/a,  satya,  tushnim,  laghu,  sadhu,  sabha,  are  in  Prakrit 
softened  down  into  mutta,  gutta,  sutta,  magga,  attha,  settha,  ditthi, 
fwppha,  daMMna,  dahina,  moffha,  saeheha,  tunklm,  lahu,  saJm,  and 
saM.  The  further  back  we  trace  the  Prakrit  forms,  the  more  nearly 
do  they  resemble  the  Sanskrit,  tUl  the  two  are  found  to  be  almost 
identical ;  while  the  more  modern  the  grammatical  forms  are  which 
the  Prakrits  have  taken,  the  more  widely  do  they  diverge  from  their 
Sanskrit  prototypes.  The  case  is  quite  different  with  the  Latin  and 
Greek.  A  few  instances  may,  no  doubt,  be  discovered  where  the 
modes  in  which  the  Latin  or  Greek  forms  vary  from  the  Sanskrit  cor- 

2'  Compare  the  Mahabharata  i.  3533,  which  says,  Yados  tu  YademHi  jatas 
Twvasor  Ta/eanah  smritah  \  Bruhyoh  stttas  tu  Vaibhojah  Anos  tu  Mleohha-jatayah. 
"  The  Yadavas  sprang  from  Tadu.  The  Yavanas  are  said  to  he  Turvasu's  offspring ; 
the  Vaibhojas  are  descended  from  Druhyn,  and  the  Mlechha  tribes  from  Anu." 
These  four  progenitors,  and  Puru,  were  sons  of  of  the  Kshatriya  monarch  Yayati. 


MODIFICATIONS  OF  THOSE  IN  SANSKRIT.  261 

respond  in  some  degree  to  those  changes  of  softening  or  simplification'' 
which  the  Sanskrit  forms  have  undergone  in  Prakrit.  Thus  the 
Gieeh  doUMos,  "long,"  varies  from  the  Sanskrit  dirgjia  somevrhat  in 
the  same  manner  as  the  Prakrit  sin  and  hiri  vary  from  the  Sanskrit 
irl  and  hri;  and  the  Greek  hu^nos,  "sleep,"  appears  to  simplify  the 
Sanskrit  svapna  by  much  the  same  process  as  that  by  which  the  Prakrit 
reduces  the  Sanskrit  stMna,  "  place,"  to  thdna.  But  the  few  instances 
of  this  sort  which  can  be  adduced  are  quite  insufficient  to  prove  that 
even  in  these  eases  the  Greek  or  the  Latin  words  are  borrowed  from 
the  Sanskrit.''  They  may  with  quite  equal  probability  have  been 
derived  from  an  earlier  language  from  which  the  Sanskrit  is  also 
drawn.  There  is  no  appearance  of  Greek  and  Latin  words  having 
resulted  from  any  modification  of  the  Sanskrit :  for,  while  many  of 
their  forms  have  a  close  resemblance  to  the  Sanskrit  forms,  they  are,  at 
the  same  time,  for  the  most  part  equally  original  with  those  of  that 
language ;  and  many  of  them  are  so  different  from  the  Sanskrit,  and 

'8  There  are  very  few  of  the  Prakrit  forms  which  are  not  simplifications  of  the 
Sanskrit.  Even  in  such  a  case  as  that  of  the  word  itthl,  or  isthiya, "  wonjan"  (irom 
stri),  the  change  is  in  one  sense  a  simplification,  as  one  or  more  consonants  are  thrown 
out,  and  the  vowel  i  is  prefixed  to  facilitate  pronunciation.  But  the  great  majority  of 
Sanskrit  words  commencing  with  a  double  consonant  are  modified  in  Prakrit,  not  hy 
prefixing  a  vowel,  hut  either  hy  rejecting  one  of  the  members  of  the  compound  con- 
sonant, or  hy  interposing  a  vowel  between  them.  Thus  the  Sanskrit  stha  becomes 
in  Prakrit  tha,  sthala  becomes  thala,  ahcmdha  becomes  kandha,  spris  becomes  ^Aoms, 
kshama  becomes  lehama,  snana  becomes  nhana,  sneha,  becomes  scmeJia,  mlana  becomes 


''  It  may,  however,  be  further  objected  that  my  argument  is  incomplete,  as  all 
Prakrit  or  derivative  dialects  do  not  modify  the  original  language  in  the  same  man- 
ner. Thus  French  and  Spanish,  it  may  be  said,  do  not  corrupt  the  Latin  iu  the 
same  way  as  Italian  does.  Now,  as  it  has  been  stated  above  (p.  147)  that  the  Indian 
Prakrits  corrupted  Sanskrit  very  much  in  the  same  way  as  the  Italian  corrupted 
Latin,  so  (the  objector  may  urge)  Zend,  and  Greek,  and  Latin,  may  have  modified 
Sanskrit  in  a  somewhat  different  way,  as  French  and  Spanish  modified  Latin.  To 
this  I  reply  that  in  the  case  of  aU  these  derivatives  of  Latin,  viz.  Italian,  French, 
and  Spanish,  it  can  be  shown  (1.)  that  the  people  who  spoke  these  languages  were 
either  entirely  or  in  part  descended  from  the  Eomans ;  or  that,  at  least,  they  received 
their  language  from  the  Romans  who  conquered  and  colonized  their  respective 
countries ;  but  it  cannot  be  shown  either  that  the  Greeks  or  Romans  were  descended 
from  the  Indians,  or  in  any  way  received  their  languages  from  Hindustan.  (2.)  In 
the  case  of  the  French  and  Spanish  languages,  as  well  as  in  that  of  the  Italian,  the 
exact  process  and  the  very  steps  can  be  poiuted  out  by  which  they  changed  the 
forms  of  the  Latin  words ;  hut  it  cannot  be  historically  shown,  in  regard  to  the 
Greek  or  Latin,  that  their  words  are  in  any  way  corruptions  of  Sanskrit  originals, 


262  SOME  GEEEK  AND  LATIN  FOEMS 

so  peculiar,  that  they  could  not  be  deduced  from  it  according  to. any 
laws  of  mutation  recognized  by  philologists.  The  Greek  and  Latin 
forms  can,  therefore,  only  be  derived  from  another  and  anterior  source, 
from  which  the  Sanskrit  forms  also,  as  well  as  they,  have  flowed.  It 
is,  further,  the  opinion  of  distinguished  comparative  philologists,  that 
Latin  and  Greek  have  preserved  some  forms  of  inflection,  which  are 
more  ancient  than  those  preserved  in  Sanskrit ;  and  represent  more 
exactly  the  original  forms  of  the  supposed  parent  language.  For 
instance,  the  Latin  has  preserved  the  nominative  of  the  present  par- 
ticiple ending  in  ens,  such  as/erens  (carrying),  while  Sanskrit  has  only 
the  form  in  at,  hharat  for  example,  which  seems  to  have  been  origin- 
ally hharans  or  hharant.^"  The  same  is  the  case  with  various  roots, 
nominal  and  verbal,  in  which  the  Sanskrit  appears  to  have  lost  the 
original  form  of  the  word,  while  it  has  been  preserved  in  Greek  or 
Latin,  or  both.  Thus  the  word  for  "a  star,"  which  seems  to  have  been 
originally  star, — a  form  which  has  been  preserved  in  the  Eigveda  and 
in  the  Greek  aster  and  astron,  and  in  the  Latin  astrum,  as  weU  as  in  the 
Zend  itdre,  and  the  Persian  sitdrah, — has  been  lost  in  the  later  Sanskrit, 
where  it  becomes  tara.  Again,  on  the  supposition  that  the  h,  j,  and 
chh  of  Sanskrit  are  corrupted  from  the  k  or  gh,  g,  and  sk  of  the  earlier 
language,  the  following  Sanskrit  words  appear  to  have  departed  further 
from  the  original  forms  than  the  corresponding  words  in  Greek  and 
Latin,  viz.,  S.  hridaya  =  Gr.  Tcardia,  Lat.  cor  ;  8.  lianu-  =  Gr.  genus  ; 
S.  mih^GiT.  omihheo ;  S.  hahu  =  Gi.pekhus ;  B.  janami z=.  Gr.  ginosho, 
lisA.  gnosoo ;  S.  jafanmi=G:r.  gennao,  Lat.  gigno;  S.  a;V»  =  Gr.  agros, 
Lat.  ager ;  S.  rcy'ata  =  Gr.  arguros,  Lat.  argentum ;  S.  jambha  =  Gr. 
gomphos  ;  S.  jaras  =  Gr.  g'eras  ;'  S.  janu  =  Gr.  gonu  ;  S.  chhdya  =  Gr. 
sMa  ;  S.  chhid  {ohhinadmi)  =  Gr.  sh'hi%o,  Lat.  scindo ;  and  S.  ashtau  = 
G.  oMo. 

Second :  But  the  fact  that  the  Greek  and  Latin  languages  are  in 
their  origin  independent  of  the  Sanskrit  may  be  further  shown  by  the 
following  considerations : " 

*"  Bopp,  Comp.  Grammar,  para.  129.  Ad.  Eegnier,  Traite  de  la  formation  des 
mots  dans  la  langue  Grecque,  note  1,  pp.  68,  69. 

"  I  am  indebted  for  the  substance  of  the  paragraphs  marked  with  an  asterisk  (*) 
to  the  kindness  of  Professor  Goldstiicker,  who  is  dissatisfied  with  some  views  pro- 
pounded in  the  passage  immediately  preceding,  as  he  rejects  the  theory  which  has 
hitherto  been  in  favour  with  philologists  that  the  fullest  forms  are  necessarily  the 


MOEE  ORIGINAL  THAN  THOSE  OP  SANSKEIT.  263 

*  (1.)  Oa  a  careful  examination  of  the  roots  contained  in  the 
Bhatupathas,  or  lista  of  radicals  in  the  clasBical  or  modem  Sanskrit,  it 
win  be  found  that  many  of  these  verbal  roots  are  compounded,  or 
resolvable  into  simpler  forms.  But  as  those  roots,  notwithstanding 
their  composite  character,  are  treated  by  the  Indian  grammarians  as 
ultimate  radicals,  it  is  clear  that  those  grammarians  have  forgotten  the 
sinipler  forms  from  which  the  others  have  been  derived.  Of  this  remark 
the  following  roots  are  exemplifications,  viz. :  vyanj,  vyay,  vi,  vyadh, 
pyush  or  vyush,  ^rush^  veksh  and  ujhh,  which,  though  evidently  com- 
pounded of  vi+anj,  vi-\-ay,  m-\-i,  vi+adh,  pi  or  vi+ush,  pra-\-ush,  va 
for  ava-\-lhh,  ut-\-M  {jakati),  are  yet  treated  by  the  Indian  gram- 
marians as  if  they  were  simple  roots. 

*  (2.)  The  Sanskrit  has  not  only  undergone  alterations  such  as  the 
above,  but  the  modern  language  has  actually  lost  some  fuller  forms  of 
roots,  which  are  still  discoverable  in  the  Vedic  hymns.  As  an  instance 
of  this  may  be  mentioned  the  root  grahh,  (see  above,  p.  221,)  "to 
seize,"  which  in  the  modern  Sanskrit  has  become  prakritized  into  grah. 
Other  instances  are  the  Vedic  dhwrv,  and  dhvri,  as  compared  with  the 
modern  hvri ;  and  the  Vedic  iundh,  as  compared  with  the  modern 
iudh.  The  following  Vedic  roots  are  not  to  be  found  in  modem 
Sanskrit  at  all,  viz.  :*^  kan,  inhh,  ulj,  sew,  ven,  sack,  myaeh,  tsar,  dhraj, 
mand,  ves,  vahh,  turv,  hharv,  etc.,  etc. 

*  (3.)  But  it  is  not  only  a  fact  that  the  modern  Sanskrit  has  lost 
some  of  the  oldest  verbal  roots ;  the  same  appears  to  be  the  case  with 
the  more  ancient  Vedic  Sanskrit  also,  from  which  some  primitive 
radicals  had  already  disappeared.  This  is_indicated  by  the  circum- 
stance that  there  exist  certain  Sanskrit  nouns,  which  must  have  been 
derived  from  radicals  which  in  their  verbal  form  are  not  discoverable 
even  in  the  Vedas.  Thus  from  the  existence  of  the  word  virudh, 
"a,  shrub,"  and  nyagrodha  (a  particular  tree),  we  may  infer  that  there 
once  existed  a  root  rudh,  "to  grow,"  which  in  this  sense  (for  the 

oldest.  [In  this  second  edition  the  paragraphs  are  reprinted,  by  Professor  Gold- 
stiicker's  permission,  with  a  slight  addition  to  this  note,  and  an  enlargement  of  note 
44,  p.  264.]  Compare  for  the  roots  given  in  paragraph  *  (1.)  Professor  Benfey's 
"  Complete  Sanskrit  Grammar,"  pp.  73,  ff. 

*2  On  the  hypothesis  that  the  fuller  form  is  the  more  ancient,  I  may  also  cite  the 
Vedio  forms  ieham  (as  compared  with  the  modern  chain)  and  schcmd  (as  compared 
with  the  modern  chcmcl),  as  given  in  Professor  Benfey's  "  Complete  Grammar,"  p.  73. 


264  ORIGINALITY  OF  GEEEK  AND  LATIN  FORMS. 

modern  Sanskrit  has  still  ruSh  in  the  sense  of  "to  stop,")  now  survives 
only  in  its  weakened  form  ruh.^  In  like  manner  it  appears  from  the 
nouns  dhanus,  "a  bow,"  pra-dhana,  "battle,"  and  ni+dhana,  "  death," 
that  the  root  han,  "to  kill,"  must  once  have  existed  in  the  stronger 
form  dhan  =  Gtreek  than. 

*  (4.)  Some  of  the  verbal  roots  which  have  been  lost  by  both  the 
modern  and  the  Vedio  Sanskrit,  and  which  cannot  be  traced  there  even 
through  their  preservation  in  derivatives,  may  yet  be  recovered  from 
oblivion  by  the  aid  of  the  Greek  or  Latin.  Thus  the  Sanskrit  Am, 
"to  sacrifice,"  must  have  originally  existed  in  the  stronger  form  dhu, 
as  we  may  infer  from  the  Greek  thiio ;  and  in  the  same  way  the 
earliest  form  of  the  Sanskrit  guh,  "to  hide,"  was  probably  gudh,  as  the 
Greek  keutho  would  lead  us  to  suppose.  So  too  from  the  Greek  forms 
nefho,  "to  spin,"  and  leikKo,  "to  lick,"  we  may  argue  that  the  original 
Sanskrit  forms  of  nah  and  Uh  must  have  been  nadh  and  liffh^*  Several 
forms  of  substantives  and  other  words  also  can  be  shown,  in  which  the 

^  See  Pictet's  "  Origiaes  Indo-Europeennes,"  p.  145. 

**  So  the  root  duh,  "to  milk,"  must  have  once  been  diigh,  as  is  proved  not  only  by 
its  passive  participle  dugdha,  but  also  by  the  Zend  substantive  dughdhar  and  the 
Greek  thugater,  "daughter,"  a  word  which  most  philologists  think  originally 
signified  "milker."  Professor  Goldstucker  is  of  opinion  "that  in  all  the  Sanskrit 
dhatus  the  sound  h  is  weakened  from  a  sonant  aspirate,  or,  though  more  rarely,  &om 
a  surd  aspirate,  or,  though  likewise  rarely,  from  a  sibilant.  Thus  he  thinks  that 
gah,  vrih,  sprih,  for  instance,  were  originaUy  gadh,  vridh,  spridh ;  vah,  originally 
vaSh  (compare  udKa  and  vadhu) ;  trih,  '  injure,'  triph ;  suh,  '  delight,'  mlch ; 
rnah,  '  measure,'  mas ;  mih  — niish ;  hul  — sal  or  sval,  etc.  Dah,  he  thinks,  was 
dadh,  as  is  shown  by  the  substantive  cmtmdadhcma,  lit.,  that  which  burns  or  causes 
heat  (when)  in  the  middle  (of  a  liquor) ;  and  since,  in  his  opinion,  ah  (whence  ahaai) 
is  the  more  original  form  of  dah,  he  believes  that  this  view  of  dadh  is  supported  by 
the  Greek  oifl  (originaUy  49,  whence  'Afl^vi)),  which  points  to  a  Sanskrit  adh.  That 
from  dah,  nidagha  and  similar  forms  are  derived,  is  no  disproof  of  an  original  dadh  ; 
for  when  dah  settled  down  as  a  new  dKatv,,  its  final  h  would  naturally  be  treated  as  a 
guttural.  Thus,  though  hmi  was  undoubtedly  dhan,  from  the  later  ham,  we  have 
ghnat,  jagKana,  jeghmy,  ghSia,  etc.  And  not  only  sounds,  but  even  meanings  undergo 
the  influence  of  a  confused  recollection  of  what  once  was  a  more  original  form. 
Thus  hri  represents  an  older  dhri,  ihri,  and  ghri,  '  sprinkle,  moisten ; '  yet  dhdrd 
refers  in  some  of  its  meanings  not  to  dhri,  but — ^through  the  influence  of  hri — to 
ghri." 

In  the  same  way  we  sometimes  see  the  aspirated  consonant  of  the  root  changed 
into  h,  as  in  the  case  of  the  participle  hita  {vi-hita,  ni-hita,  &c.)  from  the  root  dha, 
"  to  hold."  This  weakening  process,  commenced  in  Sanskrit,  has  been  continued  and 
carried  much  further  in  Prakrit,  where  the  aspirated  consonants  of  Sanskrit  are 
softened  into  h,  as  where  the  root  kath,  "  to  say,"  becomes  Icah.    See  Varaiuohi,  ii.. 


GEEEK  AND  LATIN  NOT  DERIVED  FROM  SANSKRIT.        265 

Greek  forms  are  stronger  than  the  Sanskrit.  Thus,  instead  of  the 
Sanskrit  Mma,  "winter,''  aU,  "a  serpent,"  hyas,  "yesterday,"  we 
find  in  Greek  the  stronger  forms  hheimon,  ehhis  or  opMs,  hhtMs,  or 
elcMMs. 

From  the  facts  detailed  in  the  preceding  paragraphs,  which  prove 
that  compound  roots  have  heen  taken  hy  the  Indian  grammarians  for 
simple  ones,  and  that  old  forms  have  been  modified  or  lost  in  the 
modern,  or  even  in  the  Vedic,  Sanskrit,  it  is  clear  that  that  language 
(especially  in  its  modern  form)  cannot  be  always  regarded  as  a  fixed 
standard,  according  to  which  the  originality  of  the  Latin  and  Greek 
forms  could  he  estimated.  And  the  supposition  that  any  of  the  Greek 
or  Latin  words  ^  are  borrowed  from  Sanskrit  by  a  prakritizing  process 
is  satisfactorily  disproved  by  the  fact  that  various  instances  have  been 
adduced  of  the  very  opposite  nature,  where  the  Greek  and  Latin  forms, 
instead  of  being  like  the  Prakrit  ones,  weaker  or  simpler  than  the 
Sanskrit,  are  stronger  or  more  complex.  Por,  whether  or  not  the 
existence  of  these  stronger  or  more  complex  forms  in  Greek  and  Latin 
proves  that  the  Sanskrit  once  had  similar  forms,  which  have  now  dis- 
appeared, it  is  at  least  sufficient  to  neutralize  the  argument, — drawn 
from  the  presence  of  certain  other  stronger  or  more  complex  forms  in 
Sanskrit  than  we  encounter  in  the  corresponding  words  in  Greek  and 
Latin, — that  those  languages  are  derived  from  Sanskrit :  for,  by  parity 
of  reason,  the  presence  of  some  forms  (which  we  have  actually  seen  to 
exist)  in  Greek  and  Latin  stronger  or  more  complex  than  those  dis- 
coverable in  corresponding  cases  in  Sanskrit,  would  prove  that  these 
weaker  Sanskrit  forms  were  mere  corruptions  of  the  Greek  and  Latin 
words. 

27 ;  and  pp.  94,  ff,  above.  See  also  Benfey's  Complete  Sanskrit  Grammar,  p.  20, 
wliere  it  is  saiij:  "A  appears  never  to  be  original  in  Sanskrit,  but  to  have  arisen  from 
the  weak  aspirates  gh,  dh,  bh.  This  derivation  can  be  illustrated  by  many  examples 
from  the  Vedas,  or  from  the  kindred  languages.  Compare  the  Vedic  dughana  from 
duh  ;  sandegha  from  dih ;  sadhaiovsaha;  grahh  iox  grah." 

*5  I  except,  of  course,  such  words  as  have  evidently  passed  from  Sanskrit  into 
Greek  at  a  period  comparatively  modern ;  such  as  Kifmcuros  from  Tcarpasa,  and  others 
of  the  same  kind.  But,  on  the  other  hand,  a  good  many  Greek  words  can  be  shown 
to  have  been  received  into  the  Sanskrit  astronomical  literature  within  the  last  two 
thousand  years,  such  as  hora,  hmdra,  lipta,  drikana,  anapKa,  sunapha,  apoklima, 
panaphara,  jamitra,  meshurana,  and  rihpha,  derived  from  the  Greek  Spa,  KivTpov, 
XETTTci,  SiKims,  ava^,  awa(j>ii,  ItroKMiM,  eTravcupopd,  Sid/ierpos,  neiTovpavr\ii.a,  and 
^,^^, — Colebrooke,  Misc.  Ess.  ii.  626,  ff. ;  Weber.  Ind.  Stud.  ii.  254. 

VOL.  II.  18 


266     ZEND,  GEEEK,  AND  LATIN,  NOT  DERIVED  FROM  SANSKRIT. 

Third : — The  Indian  Prakrits  have  derived  by  far  their  largest  stock 
of  words  from  the  Sanskrit ;  the  few  which  they  contain  that  are  not 
Sanskrit  having  been  derived  from  the  languages  of  the  indigenous 
tribes  who  inhabited  Iforthem  India  before  the  arrival  of  the  Aryas. 
On  the  other  hand,  only  a  certain  proportion,  as  we  have  seen,  of  the 
words  which  compose  the  vocabulary  of  the  Greek  and  Latin  lan- 
guages, are  common  to  them  with  the  Sanskrit:  the  greater  part  of 
the  words  are,  if  not  different,  at  least  diflcult  to  identify  as  the 
same.  Now,  had  Latin  and  G-reek  been  derived  from  the  modern,  or 
even  from  the  Vedic  Sanskrit,  the  number  of  words  indisputably 
common  to  aU  three  languages  must  have  been  very  much  greater. 
It  is  true  that  more  may  be  said  in  favour  of  the  hypothesis  that  the 
Zend  has  been  derived  from  Sanskrit ;  but  there  are  sufficient  reasons 
for  believing  that  Zend  is  a  sister  and  not  a  daughter  of  Sanskrit ;  and, 
consequently,  that  both  have  a  common  mother  of  a  more  primeval 
date. 

I  therefore  conclude,  that  Greek  and  Latin,  as  well  as  Zend,  are  not 
derived  from  Sanskrit,  but  have,  together  with  it,  grown  out  of  some 
older  parent  language,^*  which  was  superseded  by  its  daughters,  and, 
became  extinct,  because  it  ceased  to  be  employed  as  a  spoken  tongue, 
and  because  (as  being  the  language  of  a  very  early  stage  of  society) 
it  has  not  been  preserved  in  any  literary  records.  To  render  this 
supposition  conceivable,  I  may  remark  that  the  same  fate — extinction 
— ^might  have  befallen  the  Sanskrit  itself,  and  the  Latin,  when  they, 
in  like  manner,  gave  birth  to  the  various  dialects  which  have  super- 
seded them  as  living  and  popular  forms  of  speech,  had  it  not  been  that 

*s  "An  indubitable  result  of  the  researches  which  have  recently  been  pursued 
into  the  Arian  tongues  is,  that,  notwithstanding  the  various  alterations  which  they 
have  undergone,  they  all  bear  the  clear  impress  of  one  common  typp,  and  are  con- 
sequently descended  from  one  real,  living,  primeval  language,  which  was  complete 
in  itself,  and  which  was  employed  by  a  whole  nation  as  its  common  organ  of  com- 
munication. This  is  not  a  mere  hypothesis  devised  to  explain  the  relations  by  which 
those  languages  are  connected  with  each  other :  it  is  a  conclusion  which  forces  itself 
irresistibly  on  our  belief,  and  which  possesses  all  the  validity  of  the  best  established 
fact.  When  we  perceive  so  large  a  number  of  languages,  of  a  character  so  marked, 
converging  in  aU  the  details  of  their  structure  towards  a  common  centre  in  which 
every  particular  fact  finds  its  cause,  it  becomes  impossible  to  admit  that  that  centre 
has  never  had  any  other  than  a  purely  imaginary  existence,  and  that  that  marvellous 
agreement  arises  solely  from  an  instinctive  impulse  peculiar  to  a  certain  race  of  men." 
— A.  Pictet,  Origines  Indo-Europ^ennes,  p.  43. 


CONNEXION  BETWEEN  LANGUAGE  AND  EAOE.  267 

they  flourislied  at  periods  of  much  more  advanced  civilization  than  the 
assumed  primeval  language  to  which  I  have  referred,  and  have  been, 
perpetuated  by  means  of  the  numerous  writings,  secular  and  sacred, 
of  which  they  are  the  vehicles. 

The  primitive  language  to  which  I  have  just  alluded  is  thus  charac- 
terized by  M.  Piotet,  in  the  work  above  referred  to,  pp.  1,  2  : — ""While 
thus  augmenting  in  numbers  and  in  prosperity,  that  prolific  race  was 
labouring  to  create  for  itself,  as  a  powerful  means  of  development,  a 
language  admirable  by  its  richness,  its  force,  its  harmony,  and  the 
perfection  of  its  forms;  a  language  in  which  were  spontaneously 
reflected  all  its  impressions,  not  merely  its  mild  affections  and  its 
simple  admiration,  but  also  its  nascent  aspirations  toward  a  higher 
.world ;  a  language  abounding  in  images  and  in  intuitive  ideas,  bearing 
within  it,  in  germ,  all  the  future  affluence  both  of  the  most  sublime 
poetry  and  of  the  most  profound  reflection.  At  first  one  and  homo» 
geneous,  that  language,  already  perfected  to  a  very  high  degree,  served 
as  a  common  instrument  of  expression  to  this  primitive  people,  as  long 
as  it  continued  within  the  limits  of  its  native  country." 

Sect.  III. — That  affinity  in  language  affords  some  presumption  of  affinity 

in  race :  modes  in  which  a  greater  or  less  diversity  of  language  and 

institutions  would  arise  in  different   branches   of  the   same  stock: 

central  Asia  the  birth-place  of  the  Aryas. 

The  facts  and  considerations  adduced  in  the  preceding  section  have, 

I  think,  proved  beyond  a  doubt  that  the  Sanskrit  language  has  a 

common  origin  with  the  Zend,  the  Greek,  and  the  Latin ;  and  that  all 

these  tongues  have  sprung,  like  branches  from  one  stem,  out  of  the 

same  parent  language,  now  extinct.    This  conclusion  being  established, 

it  foUows  as  a  necessary  corollary  either,  first,  that  the  Indians,  the 

Persians,  the  Greeks,  and  the  Romans  also,  that  is,  the  nations  who 

spoke  the  languages  derived  from  that  one  common  source,  were  them.^ 

selves  also  descended,  whether  entirely  or  partially,  from  one  and  the 

same  stock ;  i.e.  that  they  had  for  their  common  ancestors  the  ancient 

people  who  spoke  the  extinct  language  to  which  I  have  referred," 

it  "  The  radical  affinity  of  all  the  Arian  languages  necessarily  leads  us,"  as  we 
have  seen,  "to  regard  them  as  having  sprung  from  one  single  primitive  language.  .  . 
Now  aa  a  language  presupposes  always  a  people  to  speak  it,  it  further  follows- 
that  all  the  Arian  nations  have  issued  from  one  single  source,  though  they  may  have 
become  occasionally  blended  at  a  later  period  with  some  foreign  elements.    Hence  we 


268         HOW  AFFINITY  IN  LANGUA&E  IS  TO  BE  EXPLAINED. 

althougli  at  some  period  after  their  separation  tlieir  forefathers  may 
have  become  intermingled  with  otJier  and  alien  races;  or  secondly, 
that  the  ancestors  of  the  four  nations  above  mentioned  must  have 
been  brought  into  close  contact  with  each  other  before  that  original 
parent  language  had  been  broken  up  into  different  forms  of  speech ; 
or,  thirdly,  that  their  forefathers  must  have  derived  their  respective 
languages  from  the  descendants  of  those  who  originally  spoke  them. 
Unless,  therefore,  we  resort  to  the  third  alternative,  it  must,  with 
the  reservation  made  in  the  preceding  sentence,  be  tak-en  for  an 
established  fact  either  that  the  ancestors  of  the  Indians  at  one  time 
existed  together  with  the  ancestors  of  the  Persians,  the  Greeks,  and 
the  Romans,  in  one  country,  as  one  nation,  or  that  at  least  the 
forefathers  of  these  several  nations  must  have  lived  long  in  contact 
with  each  other  at  an  early  stage  of  their  history.  It  is  true  that  we 
have  no  historical  record  of  this  primeval  period;  but  we  are  in- 
evitably led  to  assume  the  existence  of  an  anterior  state  of  things  such 
as  I  have  asserted,  by  the  fact,  that  no  other  supposition  will  account 
for  the  philological  phenomena  which  we  encounter  in  later  history. 
From  the  effects,  we  are  entitled  to  reason  back  to  the  existence  of  a 
cause  adequate  to  their  production.  "We  have  to  explain  the  fact,  that 
there  have  been  found  in  different  regions  of  the  world,  lying  far  apart 
from  each  other,  various  nations  speaking  languages  which  evince  an 
unmistakable  affinity  to  one  another ;  and  there  is  no  other  mode  of 
explaining  this  circumstance  but  by  supposing  that  the  progenitors  of 
these  nations,  or,  at  least,  the  progenitors  of  those  tribes  which  com- 
municated to  them  their  several  languages,  have  radiated  in  different 
directions  from  one  central  country  which  was  their  common  birth- 
place, or  their  common  abode,  and  where  they  all  employed  one  com- 
mon form  of  speech. 

If  we  pursue  our  inquiries  further,  we  shall  find  that  certain  data 
exist,  by  means  of  which  we  can  discover  with  some  probability  what 
was  the  order  of  time  in  which  the  ancestors  of  these  several  nations 
separated  themselves  from  the  original  stock,  or  departed  from  their 

may  with  certainty  infer  the  existence,  ai  a  pre-histoiic  period,  of  an  Arian  people, 
free,  originally,  from  all  foreign  intermixture,  sufficiently  numerous  to  have  supplied 
those  swarms  of  men  which  issued  from  its  bosom,  and  sufficiently  endowed  by  nature 
to  have  created  for  itself  the  most  beautiful  perhaps  of  all  languages.  This  people, 
though  unknown  to  tradition,  is  in  a  certain  degree  revealed  to  us  by  philological 
science." — Pictet,  pp.  6,  6. 


BMIGEATION  OF  TRIBES  FROM  A  COMMON  CENTRE.  269 

common  dwelling-place,  and  travelled  towards  those  new  countries 
which  they  continued  to  occupy  in  later  times. 

Let  us  suppose  a  numerous  and  powerful  nation  occupying  an  isolated 
position  in  the  centre  of  a  vast  region  as  yet  thinly  peopled.  Let  us 
next  imagine  what  would  be  the  probable  course  of  affairs  in  such  a 
society,  and  then  compare  this  hypothetical  picture  with  the  traces 
remaining  to  us  in  history  of  the  actual  events.  We  have  first  then 
to  contemplate  this  original  race,  or  association  of  two  or  more  races, 
gifted  with  vigorous  powers  both  of  mind  and  body,*^  as  still  residing 
in  their  primitive  abode.  "When,  in  the  natural  order  of  events,  this 
active  and  gifted  population  began  to  multiply,  the  countries  which 
they  at  first  occupied,  either  as  shepherds  or  agriculturists,  would  soon 
be  found  too  narrow  for  the  supply  of  their  growing  necessities.*' 
If  fresh  lands  fit  for  pasture  or  for  cultivation  existed  unoccupied  in 
the  vicinity  of  their  original  territory,  they  would  insensibly  extend 
their  borders  as  occasion  required.  If  there  was  no  territory  near  at 
hand  which  would  yield  them  a  subsistence,  the  more  energetic  and 
adventurous  members  of  the  community  would  be  driven  by  the 
pressure  of  necessity  to  inquire  whether  ampler  possessions  might  not 
be  found  at  a  distance ;  and  they  would  depart  in  larger  or  smaller 
detachments  in  quest  of  new  abodes.  This  process  of  migration,  when 
once  commenced,  would  go  on  without  intermission.  The  first  ad- 
venturers would  be  speedily  followed  by  other  successive  bands,  till  at 
length  new  nations  were  formed  at  a  greater  or  less  distance  from  the 
original  country. 

The  earliest  emigrants,  who  thus  departed  to  distant  regions,  passing 
often  through  countries  differing  in  climate  and  productions  from  their 

*8  M.  E.  Eenan,  however,  thinks  that  the  Arian  race  was  not  originally  superior 
in  intelKgence  to  the  Semitic,  Hamitic,  and  other  races,  hut  the  contrary.  Histoire 
des  langues  Semitiques,  p.  487. 

*'  "  But  a  constant  and  rapid  increase  of  the  population  could  not  hut  speedily 
bring  about  gradual  migrations,  which  would  be  directed  towards  regions  more  and 
more  distant.  From  that  time  forward  the  separation  of  the  nation  into  distinct 
tribes,  the  greater  infrequency  of  communication  and  changes  in  their  modes  of  life, 
occasioned  a  certain  number  of  dialects  to  spring  forth  out  of  this  common  language, 
and  to  develope  themselves,  without,  however,  as  yet,  becoming  detached  from  their 
primitive  source ;  and  at  the  same  time  the  original  character  of  the  race,  becoming 
modified  according  to  circumstances,  gave  birth  to  a  variety  of  secondary  national 
characteristics,  destined,  at  a  later  period,  to  expand,  to  exhibit  their  own  peculiar 
life,  and  to  play  their  part  in  the  great  drama  of  humanity." — Pictet,  p.  2. 


270      ARIAN  EMIGRATION  TOWARBS  GREECE,  ITALY,  PERSIA,  &o. 

primeval  abodes,  encountering  novel  and  sirange  objects,  and  inured  to 
new  pursuits,  would  gradually  lose  many  of  tbeir  ancient  customs; 
and  in  exchange  would  acquire  new  habits,  and  along  with  them  also, 
new  modes  of  speech.  Those  portions  of  the  original  population,  on 
the  contrary,  which  continued  to  live  together  in  their  ancient  country, 
or  had  gradually  extended  themselves  together  over  adjacent  regions, 
would  preserve  more  nearly  their  original  customs,  religion,  and  lan- 
guage. But  at  length  a  period  might  arrive  when  the  same  causes 
which  had  occasioned  the  separation  of  the  earlier  emigrants,  or  some 
other  causes  of  a  different  nature,  would  lead  to  a  .disruption  in  the 
remaining  part  of  the  nation  also.  It  would  become  divided  into 
different  sections;  which  would  separate  from  one  another  and  es- 
tablish themselves  in  different,  but  probably  adjacent,  countries,  and 
would  never  exhibit  so  wide  a  divergence  from  each  other  in  respect 
of  their  religion,  their  institutions,  and  their  general  character,  as 
those  earlier  emigrants  who  had  Settled  in  regions  at  a  greater  distance. 

The  first  case  which  I  have  above  hypothetically  put  is  that  of  the 
Greeks  and  Eomans,™  who  appear  to  have  broken  off  at  an  early  period 
from  the  great  Arian  nation  and  departed  to  the  westward,  in  quest  of 
new  habitations.  The  distance  of  the  countries,  viz.,  Greece,  Italy, 
and  the  surrounding  provinces,  where  they  ultimately  settled,  from  the 
cradle  of  the  Arian  race,  and  their  wide  divergence  in  religion  and 
language  from  the  eastern  branches  of  the  same  stock,  concur  to  prove 
that  they  separated  themselves  from  the  latter  at  a  very  remote  era. 
On  the  other  hand,  the  vicinity  of  the  region  occupied  by  the  Greeks 
to  that  inhabited  by  the  Eomans,  would  lead  us  to  suppose  that  the 
ancestors  of  these  two  nations  migrated  from  the  east  at  about  the 
same  period,  though  the  differences  which  we  discover  between  the 
language  and  religion  of  the  one  people  as  compared  with  those  of 
the  other,  compel  us  to  assume  a  subsequent  separation  of  the  two, 
and  an  independent  development  of  each. 

The  second  case  which  I  have  above  supposed,  of  two  branches  of 
the  original  Arian  stock  continuing  to  live  together  for  a  considerable 
time  after  the  other  branches  had  become  separated,  is  that  of  the 
Perso-Arians  and  the  Indo-Arians.    Both  from  the  closer  vicinity  to 

5°  For  the  sake  of  simplifjdng  the  view  I  give  of  the  question,  I  purposely  omit 
all  mention  of  the  German  and  other  branches  of  this  great  family,  and  of  the 
periods  at  which  they  migrated  westward. 


CONCLUSIONS  DERIVABLE  FROM  AFFINITY  IN  LANGUAGE.      271 

each  other  of  the  countries  in  which  the  Persians  and  the  Indians 
eventually  settled,  i.e.,  north-eastern  Persia  and  north-western  India, 
and  from  the  nearer  affinity  which  we  perceive  between  the  language 
and  the  mythology  of  these  two  races  than  we  find  to  exist  between 
the  language  and  mythology  of  either  and  those  of  the  Greeks  or  the 
Romans,  we  are  led  to  conclude  that  the  ancestors  of  the  Indians  and 
Persians  remained  united  in  one  community  (either  in  their  primeval 
seats  or  in  some  region  further  to  the  south)  to  a  much  later  period 
than  the  other  branches  of  the  Arian  race. 

[I  introduce  here  some  further  remarks  on  the  subject  treated  in  this 
and  the  following  section  from  a  paper  which  I  wrote  some  time  ago, 
and  which  owed  its  origin  to  the  various  objections  alleged  against  the 
validity  of  the  proof  derived  from  language  of  the  afSnity  between  the 
Indians  and  the  nations  of  the  west : — 

"  This  common  origin  of  these  languages,  and  the  remoteness  of  the 
localities  in  which  they  have  been  spoken,  imply,  I  think,  as  their 
almost  necessary  condition,  the  affinity  of  the  tribes  by  which  these 
dialects  were  spoken  at  the  period  of  their  earliest  divergence  from  one 
another,  the  original  occupation  by  those  tribes  of  a  common  country, 
their  gradual  separation,  and  their  emigration  from  their  common  abode 
in  the  direction  of  those  regions  which  we  find  to  be  ultimately  occupied 
(I  will  not  yet  say  by  their  descendants — for  that  is  the  point  in  dis- 
pute— but)  by  the  nations  who  at  a  later  period  spoke  those  several 
languages.  It  is  true  that  even  this  assumption  may  be  disputed,  and 
it  may  be  urged  that  the  original  mother-country  from  which  the 
different  tribes  carrying  with  them  the  cognate  dialects  issued  forth, 
may  have  been  the  common  dwelling-place  of  a  variety  of  tribes  imcon- 
nected  by  descent,  though  they  either  (1)  agreed  to  make  use  of  the 
same  language,  the  weaker  or  more  barbarous  clans  discarding  alto- 
gether their  own  forms  of  speech,  or  (2)  gradually  fused  into  one 
common  tongue  a  multitude  of  dialects  previously  quite  distinct.  But 
this  hypothesis,  under  either  of  these  modifications,  appears  to  be  im- 
probable, as  nations  do  not  readily  abandon  their  ancestral  tongues 
except  under  the  pressure  of  strong  necessity.  But  even  if  we  should 
admit  that  the  population  of  Central  Asia,  from  which  the  different 
branches  of  the  so-called  Indo-European  race  are  presumed  to  have 
issued,  was  not  originally  a  homogeneous  one,  but  composite,  made  up 


272         COULD  THE  MIGRANTS  HAVE  LONG 

of  a  mixture  of  distinct  tribes,  still  tliese  tribes  must,  during  the  period 
■wben  their  common  language  was  in  process  of  formation,  have  lived 
together  in  intimate  union,  and  by  the  intermarriage  of  the  different 
sections^'  have  become  eventually  blended  into  one  community.  The 
formation  and  universal  adoption  of  one  common  language  is  scarcely 
conceivable  on  any  other  conditions.  "When,  therefore,  this  community 
was  at  length  broken  up,  and  its  different  fractions  began  to  depart 
from  their  original  home  in  different  directions  in  search  of  new  abodes, 
— an  event  which  we  must  imagine  to  have  occurred  after  the  lapse  of 
several  generations  from  their  (supposed)  first  coalition, — these  different 
sections  must,  as  a  result  of  this  long  cohabitation,  and  the  consequent 
commingling  of  blood,  have  been  all  composed  in  a  great  measure  of 
the  same  elements.  We  may  perhaps,  however,  be  allowed  to  set 
aside  this  objection,  which  has  been  last  dealt  with,  and  assume  that 
the  tribes  which,  several  thousand  years  ago,  radiated  from  the  supposed 
common  home  in  Central  Asia,  were  originally  homogeneous,  or  of  one 
and  the  same  stock.  If  this  assumption  is  admitted,  it  will  hardly 
be  denied  that,  for  a  short  time  at  least,  these  several  tribes,  as,  one  by 
one,  they  diverged  in  different  directions  from  the  postulated  centre, 
may  have  maintained  the  purity  of  their  blood.  But  it  wUl  be  urged 
that  this  would  not  long  continue  to  be  the  case.  It  will  be  said : 
'  Supposing  that  aU  the  assumptions  which  you  have  made  up  to  this 
point  are  conceded,  what  proof  can  be  adduced  to  show  that  those 
tribes  which,  as  you  allege,  carried  with  them  one  or  more  dialects 
which  were  ultimately  developed  into  the  Sanskrit,  Old  Persian,  Greek 
and  Latin  languages,  into  India,  Persia,  Greece,  and  Italy  respectively, 
were  reaUy  the  descendants  of  those  tribes  which  you  imagine  to  have 
started  from  your  assumed  centre  at  an  unknown  period  ?  Admitting, 
for  the  sake  of  argument,  that  certain  sections  of  your  Indo-European 
race  branched  off  in  different  directions  in  search  of  new  abodes,  they 
then  disappear.  There  is  no  longer  the  slightest  probability  that  we  shall 
ever  be  able  to  recover  at  any  point  of  the  long  line  of  their  alleged 
journeyings  the  smallest  traces  of  their  progress  onward  to  their  assumed 
destinations.^''  The  supposed  streams  of  population  no  longer  begin  to 
flow  onward,  than,  like  the  waters  of  the  fabled  fountain  of  Arethusa, 

"  Unless  we  suppose  that  at  the  early  period  in  question  they  were  divided  into 
separate  castes,  which,  however,  is  an  iraprohable  supposition. 
"  See,  however,  Pictet,  vol.  i.  pp.  64-88 ;  and  p.  636,  quoted  further  on. 


EETAINED  THEIR  PUEITY  OF  BLOOD  ?  273 

they  sink  underground,  and  none  of  those  nationalities  which  emerge 
into  the  light  of  day  long  afterwards,  and  at  distant  points  of  the  globe, 
can  possibly  be  identified  by  you  as  pure  continuations  of  those  same 
original  streams.  Tou  have  no  test  of  sufficient  potency  to  justify  you 
in  pronouncing  that  the  elements  of  which  the  two  sets  of  bodies — viz., 
those  which  started  from  the  centre,  and  those  which  reached  the 
several  points  of  the  circumference — were  composed  were  in  all  re- 
spects homogeneous.  Tou  can  tell  nothing  of  the  routes  and  stages  by 
which  these  migratory  tribes  advanced ;  you  are  quite  unable  to  indi- 
cate the  varios  cams,  the  tot  discrimina  rerum,  through  which  they 
passed,  the  many  adventures  they  must  have  undergone,  the  encounters 
they  may  have  had  with  other  races,  whose  influence  on  their  speech 
and  on  their  entire  destinies  may  have  been  most  important.  The  tribes 
which  you  allege  to  have  migrated  from  Central  Asia  may  have  settled 
at  any  habitable  points  between  that  region  and  the  countries  in  which 
you  imagine  that  you  have  discovered  their  descendants.  They  may 
at  this  intermediate  point  have  communicated  their  ancestral  language 
to  people  of  a  different  race  with  whom  they  there  came  into  contact, 
and  it  may  have  been  either  the  descendants  of  these  alien  races,  or  a 
people  of  mixed  blood,  by  whom  the  languages  in  question  were  carried 
onward  into  the  countries  where  they  were  found  to  prevail  at  the 
dawn  of  history.  On  either  hypothesis  the  ultimate  colonists  of  north- 
em  India,  Persia,  Greece,  or  Italy,  were  not  the  genuine  descendants 
of  the  tribes  which  started,  perhaps  several  thousand  years  before,  from 
your  supposed  centre.  And  it  may  be  further  urged  that  these  argu- 
ments are  corroborated  by  the  fact  that  notwithstanding  the  striking 
affinities  that  undoubtedly  exist  between  certain  parts  of  the  Sanskrit, 
Greek,  and  Latin  languages,  the  number  of  words  which  are  common 
to  these  languages  is  very  small  in  comparison  with  those  in  which  they 
differ  from  one  another ;  and  this  fact,  it  may  be  further  argued,  can 
best  be  explained  by  the  supposition  that  these  languages  have  been 
gradually  formed  by  the  accretion  of  new  words  imported  into  them 
by  men  of  alien  race,  who  from  time  to  time  became  intermingled  with 
the  tribes  by  which  the  languages  were  previously  employed.  Some 
such  intermixture  of  population,  it  may  be  concluded,  is  necessary  to 
explain  the  great  mutual  divergence  which  eventually  came  to  charac- 
terize these  four  languages.' 


274  "WHETHER  THE  SETTLEES  IN  INDIA,  PERSIA,  &c. 

"  I  shall  take  up  these  several  arguments  in  succession. 

"  Supposing  that  the  afSnities  alleged  to  exist  between  the  languages 
spoken  at  the  dawn  of  history  in  India,  Persia,  Greece,  and  Italy,  are 
admitted  to  he  real,  we  have  to  discover  the  most  natural  explanation 
of  this  phenomenon.  The  kindred  forms  of  speech  must,  as  we  have 
seen,  have  had  a  common  origin,  and  must  have  been  conveyed  to  the 
localities  in  which  they  were  found,  either  (1)  by  the  remote  descen- 
dants of  the  races,  derived  from  a  common  stock,  by  which,  at  first  they 
were  severally  spoken,  or  (2)  by  tribes  which  had  been  in  long  and 
intimate  contact  with  those  races  at  some  period  of  their  history." 

"  The  question  to  be  answered  is  therefore  this :  Whether  is  it  most 
probable  that  the  colonists  who  conveyed  to  India,  Persia,  Greece,  and 
Italy  the  forms  of  speech  which  were  thenceforward  prevalent  in  those 
countries  had  (1)  inherited  the  languages  which  they  brought  with 
them  by  direct  descent  from  their  remotest  forefathers ;  or  that  (2)  at 
some  intermediate  period  of  their  national  history,  their  ancestors  had 
adopted,  in  whole  or  in  part,  the  language  of  some  alien  race  ?  These 
questions,  I  aUow,  can  receive  no  positive  answer.  A  probable  so- 
lution is  all  that  can  be  offered.  It  is  freely  admitted  that  we  are 
utterly  unable  to  define  the  date,  or  the  course,  or  the  duration,  of  the 
migrations  which  have  been  assumed,  or  to  conjecture  the  various 
events  by  which  they  may  have  been  attended.  But  if  there  be  no 
historical  proof,  or  other  indication,  to  the  contrary,  the  presumption, 
I  think,  is  always  in  favour  of  the  conclusion  that  a  people  has  re- 
tained the  language  of  its  ancestors.  Languages  which,  on  the  grounds 
already  stated,  may  be  maintained  to  have  had  a  long  and  continuous 
existence,  must,  in  the  absence  of  any  written  literature,  have  been 
orally  handed  down  by  some  people  or  other.  But  no  probable  reason 
can  be  alleged  for  supposing  that  the  descendants  of  those  who  first 
spoke  them  have  become  extinct.  Even  conceding  that  at  some  stage  or 
other  of  its  history  any  particular  form  of  speech  has  been  communi- 
cated by  the  race  which  inherited  it  to  people  of  another  stock,  it  is 
not  thereby  rendered  necessary  or  even  likely  that  it  should  have 

"■3  It  is  also  possible  that  the  tribes  which  brought  the  language  to  the  country  in 
which  it  was  first  found  to  exist  may  have  transferred  the  language  to  another  race, 
and  have  themselves  entirely  disappeared ;  but  this  hypothesis  appears  to  be  so 
unlikely  that  it  may  be  left  out  of  consideration. 


SPOKE  THE  LANGUAGE  OF  THEIE  EAELIEST  FOEEFATHEES.     275 

been  dropped  by  those  ■who  had  inherited  it.  Arguing,  therefore,  on 
grounds  of  probability,  the  utmost  -which  we  can  be  fairly  required  to 
admit  in  regard  to  any  language  is,  that  at  some  period  or  other  of  its 
history,  it  may  have  begun  to  be  spoken  by  an  alien  tribe  which  had 
received  it  from  another  tribe  to  -which  it  had  descended  by  inheritance, 
■while  at  the  same  time  it  continued  to  be  spoken  by  the  latter  also."^ 
We  are  therefore,  I  think,  justified  in  concluding  that  some  portion 
at  least  of  the  people  by  -whom  these  languages  -were  severally  em- 
ployed id  the  earliest  historical  periods  were  the  lineal  representatives 
of  those  tribes  -which  emigrated  from  Central  Asia  at  the  unknown 
period  already  referred  to,  or,  at  any  rate,  were  in  part  of  that  stock. 
But  there  are  other  reasons  for  adopting  this  conclusion.  It  is  no 
doubt  true,  and  has  been  already  admitted,  that  people  of  one  stock  may 
receive  their  language  from  people  of  an  alien  race.  But  in  such  a 
case  the  nation  adopting  the  language  would  generally,  if  not  invariably, 
be  inferior  in  moral  and  intellectual  power  to  that  whose  language  it 
borrowed.  The  reverse  is  scarcely  credible.  When,  therefore,  we  find 
a  race  of  high  mental  endowments  speaking  a  particular  tongue,  we  are 
justified  in  supposing  (so  long  as  we  have  no  historical  proof  to  the 
contrary)  that  it  is  using  the  speech  of  its  forefathers.  But  both  the 
earliest  kno-wn  or  Vedic  Indians,  and  the  earliest  known  Greeks, 
were  superior  in  intellect,  whilst  they  were  at  least  equal  in  martial 
prowess,  to  the  nations  with  which  they  were  brought  into  contact,  and 
were  no  doubt  descended  from  peoples  possessed  of  the  same  charac- 
teristics, who  are  therefore  unHkely  to  have  had  their  languages  im- 
posed upon  them  by  conquerors  of  any  other  race,  or  to  have  volun- 
tarily adopted  the  speech  of  any  other  people.  I  wiU  adduce  another 
ground — though  not  of  a  linguistic  character,  but  derived  from  the 
later  history  of  the  Indians  and  Greeks — for  believing  that  these  two 
nations  have  sprung  from  the  same  stock,  I  mean  the  remarkable  re- 
semblance between  the  intellectual  capacity  and  endowments  of  both, 
as  shown  in  the  eminence  attained  and  the  originality  evinced  by  each 
in  literature,  science,  and  speculation.  As  this  similarity  is  generally 
recognized,  I  need  not  adduce  any  evidence  of  the  fact. 

"  Now  I  do  not  find  that  either  the  Sanskrit,  or  the  Persian,  or  the  Greek,  or  the 
Latin,  was  originaEy  employed  by  different  tribes  living  in  different  regions  of  the 
globe ;  but  on  the  contrary  that  all  these  languages  were  at  first  spoken  by  one  com- 
pact nation. 


276     "WHAT  COIirCLUSIONS  ARE  IMPLIED  IN  AFFINITY  OF  SPEECH. 

"As  regards  the  objection  wMoh  I  have  supposed  to  be  made  that 
alongside  of  the  remarkable  proofs  of  affinity  between  the  Sanskrit, 
Greek,  and  Latin,  there  exist  differences  in  vocabulary  so  much  more 
extensive  as  to  be  explicable  only  on  the  supposition  that  the  tribes 
which  inherited  these  languages  from  their  ancestors  must  have  under- 
gone from  time  to  time  a  large  intermixture  of  foreign  blood, — as  it 
would  otherwise  be  impossible  to  account  for  the  wide  divergence  which 
ultimately  prevailed  between  those  different  forms  of  speech, — I  repeat 
(see  pp.  257,  f.)  that  the  phenomenon  in  question  is  susceptible  of  another 
explanation.  The  increasing  change  in  the  different  dialects  of  the 
mother-language,  after  the  tribes  by  which  they  were  spoken  had 
radiated  in  different  directions  from  their  central  home,  may  be  ac- 
counted for  (even  on  the  supposition  of  their  remaining  free  from  any 
material  iutermixture  of  blood),  by  the  necessary  conditions  of  a 
nascent  civilization  as  well  as  by  the  vicissitudes  necessarily  attendant 
on  their  migrations.  At  that  early  stage  when  these  tribes  had  made 
little  progress  in  arts  and  culture,  and  had  no  literature  to  fix  their 
spoken  dialect,  constant  alterations  would  naturally  occur,  old  words 
would  be  modified  or  disused,  whilst  new  ones,  suggested  by  the 
different  circumstances,  physical,  social,  and  political,  through  which 
they  passed,  would  be  introduced.  Such  a  gradual  process  of  alteration 
is  a  necessary  result  of  the  laws  which  regulate  the  development  of 
thought  and  language  in  the  early  periods  of  society,  and  does  not 
therefore  require  the  hypothesis  of  any  intermingling  of  foreign 
elements  of  population  to  render  it  intelligible.  At  the  same  time,  it 
need  not  be  denied  that  many  words  now  found  in  Sanskrit,  Greek, 
and  Latin  may  have  been  borrowed  from  people  of  other  races. 

"  But  supposing  it  to  be  held  that  the  above  conclusions  regarding 
language  as  a  test  of  race  are  too  uncertain  and  conjectural  to  be  of 
any  value,  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  this  much  at  least  is  established 
by  the  mutual  affinities  of  the  Sanskrit,  Persian,  Greek,  and  Latin, 
that  the  ancestors  of  the  earliest  known  Indians,  Persians,  Greeks,  and 
Eomans,  had  immediately  or  remotely  derived  their  respective  lan- 
guages from  races  which  had  at  one  time  been  in  the  closest  contact 
with  each  other  as  constituent  parts  of  the  same  community,  governed 
by  the  same  institutions,  and  adherents  of  the  same  religion  and  wor- 
ship (see  the  abstract  of  the  Eev.  G.  C.  Geldart's  paper,  "Language  no 


FROM  WHOM  DID  THE  HINDUS  DERIVE  THEIR  LANGUAGE?     277 

Test  of  Kace,"  in  the  Transactions  of  the  British  Association  for  1858, 
p.  150,  f.  of  the  Transactions  of  the  Sections).*' 

"  Let  us  see  what  conclusion  this  proposition  involves  in  regard  to  the 
origin  of  the  Hindus,  a  question  the  consideration  of  which  first  led  me 
to  the  study  of  the  problems  discussed  in  this  paper.  The  Hindus  of  the 
Vedic  period  are  either  directly  descended  from  the  people  who  first 
spoke  Sanskrit  ia  its  oldest  form,  or  they  are  not.  If  they  are  not, 
then  they  must  have  derived  their  language  (now  esteemed  sacred  and 
divine)  from  some  alien  race  which  communicated  it  to  their  fore- 
fathers. But  as  the  traditions  contained  in  their  own  sacred  books 
say  nothing  of  this,  they  cannot,  on  this  hypothesis,  be  regarded  as 
giving  a  trustworthy  or  sufficient  account  of  the  origin  and  history 
of  the  race.  If,  on  the  other  hand,  the  early  Indians  derived  the 
Sanskrit  language  by  direct  descent  from  those  who  first  spoke  it,  their 
progenitors  must  at  some  period  have  lived  in  close  contact  either  with 
the  ancestors  of  the  Persians,  Greeks,  and  Eomans,  or  with  some  other 
tribes  with  which  at  some  time  or  other  the  forefathers  of  the  Persians, 
Greeks,  and  Eomans,  had  been  socially  and  politically  connected.  In 
either  case  the  ancestors  of  the  Hindus  must  have  formed  part  of  an 
ancient  community,  which  also  embraced  the  forefathers  of  other  tribes 
which  eventually  separated  themselves  from  that  community;  and  could 
not  well  have  had  the  distinct  and  peculiar  origin  assigned  to  them  in 
their  legendary  books.  Where,  then,  did  the  separation  referred  to 
take  place  ?  In,  or  out  of,  India  ?  To  this  I  reply  that,  looking  to 
the  geographical  positions  ultimately  occupied  by  the  different  nations 
which  spoke  the  various  languages  cognate  to  Sanskrit,  the  probability 
is,  that  the  separation  to  which  I  have  referred  took  place  at  some 
central  point  intermediate  between  the  countries  in  which  these  peoples 
severally  dwelt,  viz.,  at  a  point,  consequently,  to  the  west  or  north-west 
of  the  Indus.  "Whether  the  populations  composing  the  several  nations  in 
question  were  themselves  the  descendants  of  the  tribes  which  originally 
separated  from  the  assumed  parent  stock,  or  whether  one  or  more  of 
them  derived  their  languages  from  those  descendants,  we  must  in  every 
case  assume  it  as  more  likely  that  the  migrations  which  terminated  in 
the  ultimate  formation  of  the  Indian,  Persian,  Greek,  and  Eoman 
nationalities  had  proceeded  from  an  intermediate  point  than  from  one 
in  the  extreme  east. 

"  See  Appendix  D. 


278  ORIGIN  AND  AFFINITIES  OF  THE  INDIANS. 

"  Supposing  it  now  to  be  considered  as  established  or  probable  that 
a  tribe  of  Indo-European  descent  had  at  an  early  period  immigrated 
into  India  from  the  north-vest,  but  that  insuperable  physiological 
difficulties  are  opposed  to  the  supposition  that  their  descendants  could 
ever,  from  the  mere  influence  of  climate,  have  gradually  acq[uired  their 
present  dusky  complexion,  we  must  resort  to  the  hypothesis,  to  be  here- 
after referred  to,  that  those  original  immigrants,  or  their  descendants, 
intermarried  with  the  darker  tribes  whom  they  found  settled  in  the 
country ;  and  that  the  offspring  of  these  intermarriages  were  born  with 
swarthier  complexions  than  their  Indo-European  ancestors.  If  this  be 
the  true  explanation  of  the  fact,  it  must  be  admitted  that  the  Brah- 
manical  or  Sanskrit-speaking  Indians  are  not  of  pure  Indo-European 
blood,  though  they  are  in  part  of  Indo-European  extraction.  In  any 
case  they  have  inherited  the  high  mental  endowments  which  are 
characteristic  of  that  race."] 

The  propositions  which  I  have  already  proved,  or  shall  now  attempt 
to  prove,  are  the  following  : — 

First:  That  the  Indo-Arians,  that  is,  the  higher  classes  of  the 
northern  Indians,  or  the  Brahmans,  Kshattriyas  and  Vaisyas,  are 
descended  either  exclusively  or  partially  from  the  same  Ajian  race  as 
the  Persians,  the  Greeks,  and  the  Eomans. 

Second :  That  the  primeval  abode  of  this  original  Arian  race  was 
in  some  country  of  central  Asia,  situated  out  of,  and  to  the  north-west 
of,  India. 

Third :  That  different  branches  gradually  separated  themselves  from 
this  parent  stock,  and  migrated  to  new  countries,  west,  south,  or  east 
of  their  early  home. 

Fourth :  That  the  ancestors  of  the  Indians  and  Persians  appear  to 
have  lived  together  as  one  nation  to  a  later  period  than  the  other 
branches  of  the  Arian  race,  but  at  length  separated,  the  Indo-Arians 
migrating  into  India,  while  the  Perso-Arians  occupied  the  territory  of 
Bactria,  and  the  adjacent  provinces. 

I  shall  not  consider  it  necessary,  in  the  discussion  of  the  subject,  to 
handle  each  of  these  propositions  in  the  succession  here  indicated ;  but 
shall  rather  take  up  the  different  topics  in  the  order  in  which  the 
process  of  proof  which  I  shall  follow  may  render  most  convenient. 


CLOSE  CONNEXION  OP  THE  INDIANS  AND  PERSIANS.  279 

Sect.  IV. —  Whether  there  is  amy  objection  arising  from  physiological 
considerations,  to  classing  the  Indians  among  the  Indo-Miropean 
races. 

In  proving,  as  I  have  already  done,  that  the  Greek  and  Latin 
languages  have  a  common  origin,  vrith  the  Sanskrit,  I  have  adduced 
the  principal  portion  of  the  proof  which  I  had  to  bring  forward  of  the 
common  origin  of  the  nations  by  which  those  several  languages  have 
been  spoken.  And  yet  language  is  not  the  only  respect  in  which  an 
afSnity  exists  between  the  Indians,  Iranians,  Greeks,  and  Romans. 
Their  mythologies  also  present  some  points  of  contact.  As  regards 
the  Indians  and  Iranians,  this  will  be  shown  in  a  following  section. 
Por  an  indication  of  the  proofs  that  exist  that  the  mythologies  of  the 
Greeks  and  Indians,  how  much  soever  they  subsequently  diverged 
from  each  other,  must  have  issued  from  one  common  source,  I  may 
refer  to  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  2,  ff.,  33,  f.,  and  76,  where 
the  identity  of  the  words  Dyaus  and  Zeus,  and  of  Varuna  and  Uranos, 
is  referred  to.  The  mythology  of  the  Greeks  has  also  been  considered 
to  present  some  other  points  of  contact  with  that  of  India,  as  when  the 
Erinnys  of  the  Greeks  has  been  identified  with  the  Saranyu  of  the 
Vedas,  the  Centaurs  with  the  Gandharvas,  Minos  with  Manu,  Eibhu 
with  Orpheus,  Hermes  with  Sarameya,  the  Phlegyes  with  the  Bhrigus, 
etc. ;  '^  but  it  would  carry  me  too  far  if  I  were  to  attempt  to  oifer  any 
account  of  the  views  which  have  been  propounded  on  this  subject.  I 
win  now  therefore  direct  my  attention  mainly  to  exhibiting  at  greater 
length  the  grounds  which  exist  for  supposing  that  the  Persians  and 
the  Indians  are  descended  from  the  same  common  ancestors ;  and  that, 
after  remaining  united  together,  as  the  constituent  parts  of  one  nation, 
for  some  time  subsequent  to  the  migration  to  the  westward  of  the  other 
branches  of  the  same  stock,  they,  too,  were  at  last  broken  up,  by  the 
force  of  circumstances,  into  two  distinct  nations,  which  settled  in  two 
separate,  though  adjacent,  regions.  I  will  subsequently  pass  in  review 
the  additional  reasons  which  can  be  adduced  for  supposing  that  the 
Indians  immigrated  into  India  from  the  north-west. 

56  See  Kuhn's  Herabtunft  des  Feuers  und  des  GotterWanks,  Berlin,  1859 ;  and 
Miiller's  Paper  on  Comparatiye  Mythology,  in  the  Oxford  Essays  for  1856,  and  in 
"  Chips,"  Tol.  ii.  p.  181. 


280  "WHETHER  PHYSIOLOGY  NEGATIVES  THE 

Before,  however,  proceeding  to  carry  out  the  intention  here  indicated, 
it  will  be  expedient  briefly  to  inquire  whether,  on  physiological  grounds, 
there  is  any  reason  for  denying  that  the  Indians  are  descended  from 
the  same  stock  as  the  nations  of  Europe."  "  In  their  physical  charac- 
teristics the  Brahmanical  and  other  high  caste  Indians  belong,  as  well 
as  the  other  nations  who  have  just  been  mentioned,  to  the  so-called 
Caucasian  type.  It  might,  indeed,  at  first  sight,  be  supposed  that  the 
dark-complexioned  Hindus  could  not  possibly  be  of  the  same  race  as 
the  fair-coloured  natives  of  England  or  Germany.  But  a  closer  ex- 
amination of  the  different  nations  to  whom,  on  philological  grounds, 
we  are  led  to  assigu  a  common  origin,  wiU  show  that  they  vary  in 
complexion  very  much  according  to  the  climatic  influences  of  the 
regions  in  which  they  ultimately  settled,  and  in  which  they  have  been 
resident  for  a  long  series  of  ages.  If  we  look  to  the  south-eastern 
and  north-western  extremities  only  of  the  vast  tract  over  which  the 
Indo-European  races  have  spread,  we  shall,  no  doubt,  find  that  there 
is  a  complete  contrast  in  point  of  colour  between  the  occupants  of 
those  widely  separated  countries.  But  the  same  wide  contrast  does 
not  exist  between  the  inhabitants  of  those  tracts  (included  within  the 
same  limits)  which  are  adjacent  to  each  other.  The  Indians  do  not 
differ  very  much  in  complexion  from  the  Persians,  nor  the  Persians 
from  the  Greeks,  nor  the  Greeks  from  the  Italians,  nor  the  Italians 
from  the  Germans  or  the  Anglo-Saxons.  These  difierent  nations  alter 
in  complexion  by  almost  imperceptible  shades  varying  nearly  accord- 
ing as  their  respective  countries  range  successively  from  south-east 
to  north-west.  While  the  Indians  may  be  denominated  black,  the 
Persians  are  olive-coloured,  the  Greeks  have  a  still  fairer  complexion 
with  a  ruddy  tinge,  and  the  Italians  approach  yet  more  nearly  in  hue 
to  the  Teutonic  tribes.  It  is  therefore  to  the  varying  action  of  dif- 
ferent climatic  influences  that  we  have  to  ascribe  the  diversity  of 
colour  which  characterizes  these  several  nations.  The  scorching  rays 
of  an  Indian  sun,  the  high  temperature  of  an  Indian  climate,  and  the 
peculiar  diet  afibrded  by  an  Indian  soil,  acting  on  the  Indo-Arians 

"  [I  reprint  here,  nearly  as  it  originally  stood,  but  now  marked  by  inverted 
commas,  the  answer  wliioli  I  gave  to  this  question  in  the  first  edition  of  this  work ; 
and  shall  add  a  reference  to  the  difficulties  raised  on  physiological  grounds  against 
the  views  there  stated,] 


AETAN  ORIGIN  OP  THE  HINDUS.  281 

during  the  long  period  of  3,000  years  or  more  since  they  first  settled 
in  Hindustan,  appear  amply  sufficient  to  account  for  the  various 
peculiarities  of  complexion,  of  feature,  and  of  corporeal  structure 
which  now  distinguish  that  section  of  the  Indo-European  family  from 
the  kindred  branches  to  the  west.  In  fact,  the  action  of  these  causes 
ia  sufficiently  conspicuous  in  India  itself.  The  people  of  Bengal,  who 
are  of  the  same  race  as  the  inhabitants  of  the  north-western  provinces, 
have,  owing  to  the  greater  moisture  of  their  climate,  and  the  want  of 
that  bracing  temperature  which  the  latter  enjoy  for  three  or  four 
months  of  every  year,  gradually  become  darker  in  complexion  and  less 
robust  in  their  structure.  Again,  it  is  notorious  to  every  one  who  has 
lived  in  northern  India,  that  a  Brahman  from  the  temperate  province 
of  Kashmir  is  far  fairer  than  a  Brahman  of  Mathura  or  Benares ;  in 
fact  he  has  quite  the  look  of  a  foreigner.  It  has  also  been  observed 
that  an  Indo-Briton,  or  person  partly  of  European  and  partly  of 
Indian  descent,  becomes  fairer  from  living  in  the  colder  climate  of 
Europe :  but  immediately  recovers  his  ancient  complexion  on  being  ex- 
posed again  to  the  heat  of  the  tropics.  It  does  not  appear  necessary  to 
enter  further  into  the  discussion  of  this  subject,  as  the  preceding  obser- 
vations will  suffice  to  remove  any  doubts  as  to  the  common  origin  of  the 
Indians  and  the  nations  of  Europe,  which  may  have  arisen  from  their 
differences  of  complexion.''  I  will  only  add  that,  if  the  considerations 
here  urged  have  any  foundation,  the  Indo-Arians  must  have  been  much 
fairer  in  complexion  at  the  period  of  their  first  arrival  in  India,  and 

'^  A  fall  discussion  of  this  subject  may  be  found  in  Lassen's  Indisohe  Alterthum- 
skunde,  2nd  ed.,  i.  478-487.  [His  conclusion  as  summed  up  in  p.  487  is  as  follows : 
"  The  Arian  Indians  belong  to  the  Caucasian  race  in  virtue  of  their  language  and 
their  physical  type :  their  darker  complexion  does  not  amount  to  such  a  degree  of 
blackness  as  not  to  be  derivable  from  the  effects  of  climatic  influences.  The  Caucas- 
ian race  .easily  assumes  dark  shades  through  intermixture  and  the  continued  action 
of  a  hot  climate :  the  Portuguese  in  India,  descendants  of  native  women,  have 
become  quite  as  black  as  negroes ;  and  the  northern  and  western  Asiatics  who  have 
lived  for  several  generations  in  India  are  now,  even  without  intermarriage  with 
native  wives,  of  as  decided  an  olive-yellow  complexion  as  the  native  Indians  could 
be.''  It  will  be  seen  that  Lassen  here  refers  to  the  intermarriage  of  the  Arians  with 
other  [and  no  doubt  duskier]  races  as  one  of  the  possible  causes  of  their  darker 
colour].  See  also  A.  W.  von  Schlegel,  Essais,  pp.  466,  ff.,  and  Miiller's  "Last 
Eesults  of  the  Sanskrit  Researches,"  in  Bunsen's  Outlines  of  the  PhU.  of  Univ.  Hist., 
vol.  iii.,  p.  129,  reprinted  in  his  "Chips,"  vol.  i.,  pp.  63,  f.  Compare  his  "Last 
Eesults  of  the  Turanian  Researches,"  in  Bunsen  as  above,  pp.  349,  ff. 

VOL.   II.  19 


282  WHETHEK  LANGUAGE  IS  A  TEST  OP  RACE: 

■while  they  still  continued  to  occupy  the  north-westerly  regions  of  the 
Panjah,  than  they  became  at  a  later  period,  when  they  had  been  longer 
exposed  to  the  fierceness  of  the  Indian  sun,  and  when  they  had 
penetrated  further  to  the  south-east.  And  we  accordingly  find  that 
this  supposition  tallies  with  some  expressions  in  the  Vedic  hymns, 
the  oldest  of  which,  no  doubt,  date  from  a  very  early  period.  Thus,  in 
a  text  of  the  Eigveda,  iii.  34,  9,  we  find  an  allusion  made  to  the 
Colour  of  the  Arian  immigrants :  Satvt  Dasyun  pra  aryam  varnam 
avat :  '  He  destroyed  the  Dasyus,  and  protected  the  Arian  colour : ' 
and  in  Eigveda,  ii.  12,  4,  the  same  word  is  applied  to  designate  the 
Dasyu  tribes :  Yo  damm  varnam  adharam  guha.  kah  \  '  He  who  swept 
away  the  base  Dasa  colour.'  Though  the  word  varna,  *  colour,' 
which  is  here  employed,  came  afterwards  to  be  current  as  the  de- 
signation of  caste,  there  is  some  reason  to  suppose  that,  it  may  have 
been  originally  used  to  discriminate  the  fair-coloured  Aryas  from  the 
dark-complexioned  aborigines.  But  such  a  term  of  contrast,  if  em- 
ployed now,  would  not  perhaps  possess  half  the  force  which  it  may 
have  had  at  a  time  when  we  may  suppose  the  distinction  of  colour 
between  the  Aryas  and  the  savage  tribes  whom  they  encountered,  to 
have  been  far  more  palpable  than  it  is  in  modem  times." 

The  above  views  are,  however,  disputed  on  physiological  grounds 
by  different  writers,  such  as  the  late  Mr.  John  Crawfurd,  Professor 
Huxley,  and  other  authors  referred  to  by  the  latter.  Thus,  in  his 
paper  on  "Language  as  a  Test  of  the  Eaoes  of  Man,"*'  Mr.  Crawfurd 
writes  as  follows :  "In  phonetic  character,  in  grammatical  structure, 
and  in  some  cases  even  in  words,  there  exists  a  near  resemblance  be- 
tween certain  languages  of  Northern,  but  not  of  Southern  India,  and 
most,  but  by  no  means  between  all  the  ancient  and  modern  languages 
of  Europe.  From  this  fact  some  ethnologists  have  jumped  to  the 
conclusion  that  the  Oriental  and  Western  people,  between  whose  lan- 
guages this  affinity  exists,  must  necessarily  be  of  the  same  blood,  or 
in  other  terms,  of  one  and  the  same  race  of  man.  In  India,  however, 
there  neither  now  exists,  nor  does  history  teU  us  that  there  ever  did 
exist,  a  race  of  fair  complexion  resembling  Europeans :  neither  does 
there  exist  in  .Europe,  nor  is  there  even  a  tradition  of  there  ever 

5'  In  the  Transactions  of  the  Ethnological  Society  of  London  (published  in  1865), 
vol.  iii.,  p.  2. 


OPINIONS  OF  CEAWFTrED  AND  HUXLEY.  283 

having  existed,  a  race  of  black  men  like  Hindus.  Hence,  as  the  fact 
has  been  well  ascertained:,  that  neither  time,  climate,  nor  locality  will 
produce  any  material  alteration  of  race,  and  assuredly  not  such  a  one 
as  ■would  turn  a  black  skin  into  a  white  one,  or  the  reverse,  we  must 
come  to  the  inevitable  conclusion  that  the  theory  which  makes  race 
and  language  synonymous  is,  in  this  instance  at  least,  nothing  better 
than  an  ethnological  figment."  And  in  another  paper  on  the  "  Early 
Migrations  of  Man,"  in  the  same  vol.,  pp.  346,  ff.,  the  same  writer 
combats  the  opinion  which  "  makes  the  peopling  of  India  and  Europe 
with  their  present  inhabitants  to  depend  on  an  emigration  from  a  certain 
table-land  of  northern  Asia."  Mr.  Crawfurd  proceeds  to  quote  a 
passage  from  Professor  Mas  MiiUer's  "  History  of  Ancient  Sanskrit 
Literature,"  p.  12,  ff.,  in  which  this  view  is  maintained ;  and  then 
remarks :  "  The  entire  theory  developed  in  the  passages  now  quoted 
is  founded  on  philology,  and  sets  aside  all  the  well-established  qualities, 
physical  and  intellectual,  which  from  the  dawn  of  authentic  history 
have  distinguished  the  many  races  of  man,  which  it  includes  in  a 
single  category."  And  further  on  Mr.  Crawfurd  urges:  "All  this  is 
broadly  asserted  in  the  face  of  the  notorious  fact  that  history  affords 
no  example  of  a  people  becoming  white  from  black,  or  black  from 
white,  or  black  or  white  from  brown.  No  black  race  of  man  is  ever 
known  to  have  inhabited  Europe,  or  white  man  to  have  inhabited 
India,  or  black  or  white  to  have  inhabited  the  parent  land  of  the 
supposititious  original  stock."  In  an  article  in  the  Fortnightly 
Eeview,  No.  ^,  for  15th  June,  1865,  pp.  257,  ff..  Professor  Huxley  dis- 
cusses the  methods  and  results  of  ethnology ;  and  inquires  whether  the 
problems  presented  by  that  science  are  to  be  determined  by  means  of 
zoology,  or  philology,  or  history,  or  by  any  one  of  several  other 
methods  to  which  he  refers.  After  stating  the  claims  that  have  been 
put  forward  on  behalf  of  philology,  and  quoting  from  an  essay  by  the 
late '  August  Schleicher,*"  who  held  that  the  natural  classification  of 
languages  is  also  the  natural  classification  of  mankind,  Prof.  Huxley 
remarks,  p.  260:  "  Without  the  least  desire  to  depreciate  the  value  of 
philology  as  an  adjuvant  to  ethnology,  I  must  venture  to  doubt,  with 
Eudolphi,  Desmoulins,  Crawfurd,  and  others,  its  title  to  the  leading 
position  claimed  for  it  by  the  writers  whom  I  have  just  quoted.  On 
6°  Ueber  die  Bedentung  der  Spraohe  fur  die  Naturgeschiohte  der  Menschen,  1858.  ■ 


284        DR.  HUXLEY  DENIES  CLIMATAL  CHANGES  OP  COLOtTE, 

the  contrary,  it  seems  to  me  obTious  that,  though,  in  the  absence  of 
any  evidence  to  the  contrary,  unity  of  languages  may  afford  a  certain 
presumption  in  favour  of  the  unity  of  stock  of  the  peoples  speaking 
those  languages,  it  cannot  be  held  to  prove  that  unity  of  stock,  unless 
philologers  are  prepared  to  demonstrate  that  no  nation  can  lose  its 
language  and  acquire  that  of  a  distinct  nation,  without  a  change  of 
blood  corresponding  with  the  change  of  language."  And  in  p.  262 
he  writes:  "Thus  we  come,  at  last,  to  the  purely  zoological  method, 
from  which  it  is  not  unnatural  to  expect  more  than  from  any  other, 
seeing  that,  after  all,  the  problems  of  ethnology  are  simply  those 
which  are  presented  to  the  zoologist  by  every  widely  distributed 
animal  he  studies."  In  a  subsequent  part  of  the  same  paper  (p. 
273,  f.)  the  writer — referring  to  the  opinion  that  "the  operation  of 
the  existing  diversities  of  climate  and  other  conditions  on  people  so 
migrating,  is  su£B.cient  to  account  for  all  the  diversities  of  mankind  " — 
observes  that  he  "can  find  no  sufficient  ground  for  accepting"  it,  and 
that  he  doubts  "if  it  would  ever  have  obtained  its  general  currency 
except  for  the  circumstance  that  fair  Europeans  are  very  readily 
tanned  and  embrowned  by  the  sun."  To  this  he  adds:  "But  I  am 
not  aware  that  there  is  a  particle  of  proof  that  the  cutaneous  change 
thus  effected  can  become  hereditary,  any  more  than  the  enlarged  livers 
which  plague  our  countrymen  in  India  can  be  transmitted; — while 
there  is  very  strong  evidence  to  the  contrary.  Not  only,  in  fact,  are 
there  such  cases  as  those  of  the  English  families  in  Barbadoes,  who 
have  remained  for  six  generations  unaltered  in  complexion,  but  which 
are  open  to  the  objection  that  they  may  have  received  infasions  of 
fresh  European  blood;  but  there  is  the  broad  fact,  that  not  a  single 
indigenous  negro  exists  either  in  the  great  alluvial  plains  of  tropical 
South  America,  or  in  the  exposed  islands  of  the  Polynesian  Archi- 
pelago, or  among  the  populations  of  equatorial  Borneo  or  Sumatra. 
No  satisfactory  explanation  of  these  obvious  difficulties  has  been 
offered  by  the  advocates  of  the  direct  influence  of  conditions.  And 
as  for  the  more  important  modifications  observed  in  the  structure  of 
the  brain,  and  in  the  form  of  the  skull,  no  one  has  ever  pretended  to 
show  in  what  way  they  can  be  affected  directly  by  climate." 

In  a  lecture"  printed  in  the  periodical  paper  called  "Nature,"  of 

"  "  On  the  Forefathers  of  the  English  People." 


BUT  EEOOGNIZES  ARYAN  IMMIGRATION  INTO  INDIA.  285 

I7tli  March,  1870,  Prof.  Huxley  gives  expression  to  similar  views 
in  opposition  to  tte  opinion  that  climate  has  any  effect  upon  com- 
plexion. He  -writes:  "There  is  no  reason  to  think  that  climatal 
conditions  have  had  anything  whatever  to  do  with  this  singular  dis- 
tribution of  the  fair  and  the  dark  types.  ISot  only  do  the  dark  Celtic- 
speakers  of  the  Scotch  Highlands  lie  five  or  six  degrees  farther  north 
than  the  fair  Black-foresters  of  Germany ;  but,  to  the  north  of  all  the 
fair  inhabitants  of  Europe,  in  Lapland,  there  lives  a  race  of  people 
very  different  in  their  characters  from  the  dark  stock  of  Britain, 
but  stm  having  black  hair,  black  eyes,  and  swarthy  yellowish  com- 
plexions." 

In  the  first  quoted  of  these  papers  Dr.  Huxley  makes  no  reference 
to  the  particular  question  of  the  origin  of  the  Sanskrit-speaking 
Indians ;  but  in  the  lecture  published  in  "  ligature  "  we  find  the  fol- 
lowing passage,  in  which  he  refers  to  the  immigration  of  Arians  into 
India,  and  to  their  absorption  in  the  main  into  the  pre-existing  popu- 
lation, from  which  it  may  be  concluded  that  he  regards  the  upper 
classes  of  the  existing  North  Indian  Hindus  as  partially  of  Arian  blood, 
and  ascnbes  their  dusky  complexion  to  the  intermarriage  of  their 
ancestors  with  the  darker  tribes  which  were  previously  in  occupation 
of  the  country :  "  Hence,  there  can  be  no  reasonable  doubt  that  the 
fair  element  of  the  Celtic-speaking  population  of  these  [i.e.  the  British] 
islands  1,900  years  ago  was  simply  the  western  fringe  of  that  vast 
stock  which  can  be  traced  to  Central  Asia,  and  the  existence  of  which 
on  the  confines  of  China  in  ancient  times  is  testified  by  Chinese  annal- 
ists. Throughout  the  central  parts  of  the  immense  area  which  it 
covers,  the  people  of  this  stock  speak  Aryan  languages — ^belonging, 
that  is,  to  the  same  family  as  the  old  Persian  or  Zend,  and  the  Sanskrit. 
And  they  remain  stiU.  largely  represented  among  the  Affghans  and  the 
Siahposh  on  the  frontiers  of  Persia  on  the  one  hand,  and  of  Hindostan 
on  the  other.  But  the  old  Sanskrit  literature  proves  that  the  Aryan 
population  of  India  came  in  from  the  north-west,  at  least  3,000  years 
ago.  And  in  the  Vedas  these  people  portray  themselves  in  characters 
which  might  have  fitted  the  Gauls,  the  Germans,  or  the  Goths.  Un- 
fortunately there  is  no  evidence  whether  they  were  fair-haired  or  not. 
India  was  already  peopled  by  a  dark-complexioned  people  more  like 
the  Australians  than  any  one  else,  and  speaking  a  group  of  languages 


286  QUOTATION  FROM  N0ETH  AMERICAN  REVIEW. 

called  Drawidian.  They  were  fenced  in  on  the  north  by  the  barrier 
of  the  Himalayas ;  but  the  Aryans  poured  from  the  plaias  'Of  Central 
Asia  over  the  Himalayas,  into  the  great  river  basins  of  the  Indus  and 
the  Ganges,  where  they  have  been,  in  the  main,  absorbed  into  the 
pre-existing  population,  leaving  as  evidence  of  their  immigration  an 
extensive  modification  of  the  physical  characters  of  the  population, 
a  language,  and  a  literature." 

I  add  some  remarks  on  this  subject  from  the  pen  of  an  eminent  philo- 
loger  and  orientalist  in  the  North  American  Eeview,  No.  217,  for  Oct., 
1867,  pp.  552,  f.  After  asserting,  in  opposition  to  M.  Oppert,  "that  the 
boundaries  of  Indo-European  language  have  been  approximately  de- 
termined by  the  spread  and  migrations  of  a  race,"  he  adds,  "  Of  course 
every  sound  and  cautious  linguistic  scholar  is  mindful  that  language  is 
no  absolute  proof  of  descent,  bat  only  its  probable  indication,  and  that 
he  is  not  to  expect  to  discover,  in  modern  tongues,  clear  and  legible 
proofs  of  the  mixture  which  the  peoples  that  speak  them  have  under- 
gone. Such  a  thing  as  a  pure  and  unmixed  race,  doubtless,  is  not  to 
be  met  with  in  the  whole  joint  continent  of  Europe  and  Asia,  whose 
restless  tribes  have  been  jostling  and  displacing  one  another  for  ages 
past.  And  especially  in  the  case  of  a  great  stock  like  the  Indo-Euro- 
pean, which  has  spread  so  widely  from  a  single  point  over  countries 
which  were  not  before  uninhabited,  there  must  have  been  absorptions 
of  strange  peoples,  as  well  as  extrusions  and  exterminations ;  one  frag- 
ment after  another  must  have  been  worked  into  the  mass  of  the  ad- 
vancing race;  and  as  the  result  of  such  gradual  dilution,  the  ethnic 
character  of  some  parts  of  the  latter  may,  veiy  probably,  have  been 
changed  to  a  notable  degree.  These  are  the  general  probabilities  of 
the  case :  how  far  we  shall  ever  get  beyond  such  an  indefinite  state- 
ment of  them  is  at  present  very  uncertain,"  etc. 

The  conolusion  to  be  drawn  from  all  these  arguments  and  considera- 
tions appears  to  be  that  the  original  Sanskrit-speaking  Indians  were 
derived  from  the  same  stock  as  the  Iranians,  the  Greeks,  and  the 
Bomans,  although  possibly  before  their  arrival  in  the  Punjab,  and 
most  probably  at  a  later  period,  they  and  their  descendants  have  not 
remained  free  from  an  intermixture  of  alien  blood. 


CLOSER  AFFINITY  OF  ZEND  AND  SANSKEIT. 


287 


Sect.  V. — Reasons  for  supposing  the  Indians  and  Persians  in  particular 
to  have  a  common  origin. 

I  will  now  proceed  to  indicate  the  various  grounds  which  exist  for 
concluding  that  the  Indians  and  the  Persians,  or  Iranians,  were  not 
only  descended  from  the  same  original  stock,  but  that  they  continued 
to  form  one  community  even  after  the  other  kindred  tribes  had  sepa- 
rated from  them  and  migrated  to  distant  regions. 

The  first  proof  is  the  closer  affinity  which,  as  we  have  already  seen, 
subsists  between  the  Zend,  the  language  of  the  ancient  Persians,'^  and 
the  Sanskrit.  From  the  examples  of  resemblance  both  in  roots  and 
inflections  which  have  been  adduced  in  Section  II.,  it  is  manifest  that, 
upon  the  whole,  the  Zend  is  more  nearly  related  to  the  Sanskrit,  than 
either  the  Greek  or  the  Latin  are.  It  is  true  that  in  the  lists  of 
parallel  words  which  have  been  there  brought  forward,  the  parallel 
Zend  words  have  been  often  omitted,  while  the  Greek  and  Latin  words 
have  been  adduced :  but  this  does  not  arise  from  the  Zend  forms 
having  had  no  existence,  but  either  from  their  not  having  been  dis- 
covered in  any  of  the  extant  Zend  texts,  or  from  their  not  being  readily 
accessible  to  me.  But  the  Zend  words  which  have  been  brought  for- 
ward will  be  generally  found  to  stand  in  a  relation  of  closer  resem- 
blance to  the  Sanskrit  than  either  the  corresponding  Greek  or  Latin 
words  do.  I  subjoin  some  further  comparative  lists  of  Zend  and 
Sanskrit  vocables  to  whicl\  the  Greek  and  Latin  either  offer  no  equiva- 
lents in  form,  or  equivalents  which  generally  bear  a  much  more  dis- 
tant resemblance  to  the  Sanskrit  than  the  Zend  words  present.  These 
lists,  which  contain  a  few  repetitions,  are  the  following : — 

I.  NOUNS,  ADJECTIVES,  etc. 


kva 
gharma 

kva 
gSrSma^' 

vritrahan, 
Tritraghna 

vSriithrajan, 
vgrSthraghnya 

ZenA.  English. 

kas,ka,kim   ko,  ka,  kat«     {£  ^.'^ 

•where  ? 
warm. 
/  slayer  of 
I    enemies, 
(   victorious, 
(hymn,  sacred 
\  text, 
foot. 

8^  For  an  account  of  the  various  old  Iranian  dialects,  see  Spiegel  in  Kuhn  and 
Schleicher's  Beitrage  zur  verg.  Sprachf.,  ii.  6,  ff.,  and  App.,  note  D.* 
*'  In  Greek,  ei ;  in  Latin,  si.  **  In  Latin,  quia,  quee,  quod. 

6»  In  Greek,  thermos. 


Sanskrit. 

Zmi. 

English. 

yebhyaa 

yaeibyo 

to  whom. 

yadiM 

yedhi,  yezi 

if. 

mithuna 

mithwau 

a  pair. 

glrihhyas 

gairibyo 

to  hills. 

ukta 

aokhta 

spoken. 

strl 

^tri 

woman. 

autar 

antarS 

within. 

dataram 

datarem 

giver  (ace.) 

gaus 

gaus 

cow. 

mantra 


mathra 


288 


COMPARATIVE  TABLES  OF  SANSKRIT  AND 


Smskrit, 

Zend. 

MngKsh. 

Sanskrit. 

Zmd. 

English. 

pa-danam 

padhanaimi 

feet  (gen.  pi.). 

pe^as 

paes'anh 

form. 

ap 

ap 

water. 

ahan 

azan 

day. 

subhadra 

hufgdhri 

yery  good,  of 
good  lineage. 

s'arad 

a^arSdha 

autumn,  year. 

u  v&  1,^1  tm\  1  1  tw 

asta,  kshaya 

asta,  khshaya  house. 

turya 

tuirya 

fourth. 

angushtha 

afignsta 

thumb,  finger. 

tritaya 

thrishya 

three,  a  third. 

vana 

vana 

forest,  tree. 

ehatushthaya  chatbrushu 

four,  a  fourth. 

kas'yapa 

ka^yapa 

tortoise. 

atharvanam 

athrayanem 

priest  (ace). 

tamas 

temanh 

darkness. 

aBmai 

ahmai 

to  him. 

bhumi 

bumi 

earth. 

svar 

hvarg 

heaven,  sun. 

mesha 

maesha 

sheep. 

s-va 

hya 

own. 

varaha' 

varaza 

boar. 

jihva 

hizya 

tongue. 

ukshan 

ukhshan 

bull. 

sahasra 

hazanra 

thousand. 

kshira 

khshira 

milk. 

m^hantam 

mazaontem 

great  (ace. 
masc). 

ishu 
dhauvan 

ishu 
thanvana 

arrow, 
bow. 

yuyam 

yuzhem 

you. 

bhaga 

baga 

lot,  fortune. 

yari 

yairi 

water,  sea, 

bhakta 

bakhta 

allotted,  fate. 

tanu 

taira 

body. 

sakhi 

hakhi 

friend. 

s'ayanam 

liayangm 

sleeping  (aoo.). 

ojas 

aojanh 

vigour. 

sapta  sin- 
dhayas 

jhaptahifidu 

country  of  the 
seven  rivers. 

kshattra 

khshathra 

I  royalty,  king. 
I    dom. 

arya 

airya 

respectable. 

yas'a 

va^anh 

power. 

soma 
anya 
yisya 

homa 
anya 

moon-plant, 
other. 

krishti 

karsti 

■  ploughing, 
,   cultivation. 

vKpa 

all. 

praf'na 

frashna 

question. 

sarya 

haiu-ya 

all. 

parslhni 

pashna 

heel. 

upama 

upama 

highest, 
vehement. 

dasta 

za^ta 

hand. 

ugra 

ughra 

mushti 

musti 

fist. 

taruna 

tauruna 

tender. 

griva 

grlvS 

neck. 

savya 

hayya 

left  (side)_. 

pam^u 

pams'nu 

dust. 

rajishtha 

razista 

most  straight. 

par^u 

pgrS^u 
mas'ya 

rib. 

dura 

dura 

far. 

matsya 

fish. 

nedishta 

nazdista 

near. 

parna 

parSna 

feather,  wing. 

s'rila 

^rira 

beautiful. 

parnin 

pgrgnin 

bird. 

prathama 

fratSma 

first. 

charman 

ohargmau 

hide. 

agra 

aghra 

first. 

at'ru 

a&'ru 

tear. 

purva 

pamva 

former. 

am^a 

a^a 

part. 

s'yaya 

b'yava 

black. 

vakshatha 

yakhshatha 

increase. 

kj-i^a 
sakrit 

kereb'a 
hakeret 

lean, 
once. 

yakfihma 

ya^ka 

consumption, 

,   sickness. 

avis 

ayish 

manifest. 

adhvau 

adhwan 

road. 

yama 

y^ma 

twin. 

artha 

arStha 

object,  profit. 

andha 

andSo 

blind. 

anartha 

anarStha 

useless,  wrong. 

antima 
esha 

ailt^ma 
aesha 

furthest,  last, 
this. 

yyartha 

yyargtha 

vain,  desecra^ 
tion. 

atra 

athra 

here. 

amgrita 

ameretat 

immortality. 

adhara 

adhara 

lower. 

dhanya 

dana 

grain. 

afvan 

auryant 

horse. 

vi^ 

vis' 

people,  tribe. 

spas' 

spas' 
darsti 

spy,  guardian. 

tayu 

tayu 

thief. 

diishti 

view. 

garbha 

garSwa 

foetus. 

Btuti 

rtuiti 

praise. 

putra 

puthra 

son. 

stotar 

s'taotar 

praiser. 

anta 

aiita 

end. 

sthuna 

s'tuna 

pillar. 

kshudha 

shudha 

hunger. 

ratha 

ratha 

chariot. 

giri, 

gairi, 

mountain. 

gatha 

gatha 

verse,  poem. 

parvata 

paurvata 

pitu 

pitu 

food. 

visha 

vis,  visha 

poison, 
damsel. 

rai 

rai 

wealth,  glitter. 

kanya 

kanyS 

hiranya 

zaranya 

gold. 

ZEND  NOtTNS,  ADJECTIVES,  AND  VERBS. 


289 


II.— VERBAL  ROOTS  AND  FORMS. 


Sanskrit. 

Zend. 

raj 

raz 

jush 

zush 

rud 

rud 

ruh66 

rud 

rudh 

rud 

idh 

id 

BUCh 

^uch 

dharslx 

dargsh 

muclia 

much 

muhs' 

mugh 

Tan 

van 

van 

van 

ga 

ga 

chi 

chi 

chi+Yi 

chi+vi 

dra 

dru 

ram 

ram 

gar  (girati) 

gar 

gar  (grmati) 
gar  (jagarti) 

gar 

gar 

s'iksh 

s'akhsh 

ni 

nl 

var 

var 

gam 

gam 

nam 

nam 

khan 

kan 

drub 

druj 

pa^ 

pas' 

dvish 

dvish 

dhan 

dvan 

ish 

ish 

tarn 

kam 

su 

hu 

smar 

mar 

Btha+ut 

^ta+u^ 

kart 

kargt 

da 

da 

jar 

zar 

Ji 

ji 

bK 

hi 

karsh 

kargsh,  kash 

bhaj 

baz,  bakhsh 

pa 

pa 

patar 

patar 

tra 

thra 

tratar 

thratar 

ush 

ush 

dah 

daz 

to  shine. 

to  love. 

to  weep. 

to  grow. 

to  stop. 

to  kindle. 

to  glow. 

to  dare. 

to  loose, 
(to  bewilder, 
\be  bewildered. 

to  love. 

to  smite. 

to  sing. 

to  gather. 

to  distinguish. 

to  run. 

to  rest. 

to  swallow. 

to  praise. 

to  awake. 

to  learn. 

to  lead. 

to  cover, 

to  go. 

to  bend. 

to  dig. 

to  injure,  lie. 

to  bind. 

to  hate,  offend. 

to  sound. 

to  wish. 

to  desire. 

to  bring  forth. 

to  remember. 

to  rise. 

to  out. 

to  cut,  divide. 

to  grow  old. 

to  conquer. 
I  to  fear, 
\  frighten. 

to  maw. 
fto  divide, 
\  bestow. 

to  protect. 

protector. 

to  deliver. 

deliverer. 

[to  bum. 


Sanskrit. 

IS 

bandh 

badhnami 

d^d^rs'a 

vahami 

vahati 

vahanti 

vabantalhi 

bharati 
bharanti 

pracharati 

vicharanti 
bhavati 

bhavanti 

bhavishyan- 
tam 
dadati 
dadami 
d^dm^si 
tapayati 

atapayati 


Zend, 
id 

bafid 
bandami 
dad^rgsa 
vazami 
vazaiti 
vazgBti 

vazefito 

baraiti 
barSnti 

ftaoharaiti 

vicharenti 

bavaiti 
ibavaiiti, 
(bavainti 

[bushyantem 

dadhaiti 
dadhami 
dS,dSmaM 
tapayeiti 

atapayeiti 

fradae^agm 


to  be  powerful. 

to  bind. 

I  bind. 

I  saw. 

I  carry. 

he  carries. 

they  carry .^8 
/carrying  (nom. 
t  pi.).    . 

he  carries. 

they  carry, 
(he  goes  for- 
\  ward. 

they  roam. 

he  IS. 


ithey ! 


jagmushim      jaghmushlm 


stauti 

staumi 

studhi 

astaut 

hauti 

hantu 

yajate 


about  to  be. 

he  gives. 
I  give, 
we  give, 
he  warms, 
(he  kindles  or 
(  lights. 

may  I  enjoin. 
t  (aoc.  fem.  perf. 
<    part,  of  gam, 
(    "to  go") 
s'taoiti  he  praises, 

^taomi  I  praise, 

(avi)  s'tuidhi  praise  thou. 


^taot 
jainti 
jantu  . 
y^z 
yazaite 


yajante 

prlnami 

prinimasi 

veda 

veda 

vettha 

vidyat 

vidvan 

vindauti 


yazente 
afrinami 
firinamahi 
vaeda 


he  praised, 
be  kills, 
let  him  kill, 
to  sacrifice, 
he  sacrifices, 
we  sacrifice, 
they  sacrifice. 
•I  love,  vow. 
we  love. 
I  know. 


vaeda,  vaedha  he  knows. 


vashti 


v5irfta 

vidyat 
(vidvao, 
(vTdhvao 

viildenti 

avami 

khshayebi 

vasti 


thou  knowest. 
he  may  know. 

[knowing,  wise. 

they  find. 
I  protect, 
thou  rulest. 
he  desires. 


68  Probably  softened  from  an  original  form  rttdh. 

"  Probably  from  an  original  form  mtigh. 

68  In  Justi's  Dictionary  s.v.  vm,  I  find  a  form  vazadhyai,  which  would  answer 
exactly  to  a  vedic  Sanskrit  form  vahadhyai,  supposing  the  verb  vah  to  form  the 
infinitive  in  that  way,  which,  however,  is  not  the  case. 


290 


CLOSER  AFFINITY  OF  ZEND  AND  SANSKRIT. 


Sanskrit. 

Zend. 

asmi 

ahmi 

asi 

ahi 

asti 

as'ti 

santi 

henti 

astus' 

a^tu 

santu 

hefitu 

santam 


hentem 


English. 

Semshrit. 

Zend, 

English. 

1  am. 

santa^ 

hento 

being  (nom. 

thou  art. 

krinomi(vedio)kerenaomi 

I  do.     [pi.) 

he  is. 

krinoshi 

kerenuishi 

thou  dost. 

they  are. 

krinoti 

terenaoiti 

he  does. 

let  him  be. 

krinvanti 

kerenTainti 

they  do. 

let  them  be. 

krinavani 

kerenavani 

may  I  do. 

heing  (ace. 
I  sing.). 

krinuhi 

kerenuidhi 

do  thou. 

akrinot 

kerenaot 

he  did. 

"With  tte  preceding  lists  should  be  compared  the  comparatiTe  tables 
of  Sanskrit,  Zend,  Greet,  and  Latin,  as  well  as  of  Sanskrit  and  Persian 
words  given  above  in  pp.  220,  ff.,  and  230,  ff.,  which  will  contribute  to 
supply  their  deficiencies.  Many  Persian  words  will  be  found  in  the  latter 
tables  (p.  220,  ff.),  which  in  form  closely  resemble  the  Sanskrit  terms, 
having  the  same  signification,  while  on  the  other  hand  there  are  in  nu- 
merous instances  no  Greek  or  Latin  terms  which  closely  correspond  to 
the  same  Sanskrit  words  both  in  sound  and  in  sense.  Now,  if  even  the 
modem  Persian  language,  notwithstanding  the  many  modifications 
it  has  undergone  from  diverse  influences  throughout  a  long  course  of 
centuries,  can  still  supply  so  large  a  number  of  words  which  so  closely 
resemble  the  Sanskrit  terms,  we  may  safely  conclude  that  the  Zend, 
one  of  the  forms  of  the  early  Persian  (which  was  the  ancient  medium, 
or  akin  to  the  ancient  medium,™  through  which  the  modern  Persian 
derived  all  the  Arian  words  which  it  possesses),  must  itself  have  con- 
tained a  far  larger  number  of  words  bearing  a  very  much  closer  re- 
semblance to  the  Sanskrit,  even  although  many  of  these  may  not  be 
discoverable  in  any  extant  Zend  texts. 

These  views  receive  confirmation  from  the  following  remarks  of 
Professor  MuUer  in  his  "Last  Eesults  of  the  Persian  Eesearches," 
pp.  Ill,  ll2;— 

"It  is  clear  from  his  (M.  E.  Burnouf's 'works)  and  from  Bopp's 
valuable  remarks  in  his  Comparative  Grammar,  that  Zend  in  its  gram- 
mar and  dictionary  is  nearer  to  Sanskrit  than  any  other  Indo-European 
language.    Many  Zend  words  can  be  re-translated  into  Sanskrit  simply 

™  Greek  esto. 

'"  I  learn  from  Prof.  Kern  of  Leyden's  recent  dissertation  on  the  antiquity  of 
castes  (Indische  Theorieen  over  de  Standenverdeeling,  Amsterdam,  1871),  that  he 
has  "already  on  another  occasion  shown  that  the  Neo-Persian  does  not  descend 
directly  from  the  old-Persian  of  the  Achaamenidse,  hut  is  a  dialect  occupying  a  place 
intermediate  between  the  West  and  East  Iranian  languages."  No  further  reference 
is  given  to  the  place  where  this  essay  is  to  be  found. 


INDIANS  AND  PEESIANS  CALL  THEMSELVES  AEYAS.        291 

by  changing  the  Zend  into  their  corresponding  forms  in  Sanskrit.  .  .  . 
"Where  Sanskrit  differs  in  words  or  grammatical  peculiarities  from  the 
northern  members  of  the  Arian  family,  it  frequently  coincides  with 
Zend.  The  numerals  are  the  same  in  all  these  languages  up  to  100. 
The  name  for  thousand,  however  {sahasra)  is  peculiar  to  Sanskrit,  and 
does  not  occur  in  any  of  the  Indo-European  dialects  except  in  Zend, 

where  it  becomes  hazanra These  facts  are  fuU  of  historical 

meaning ;  and  with  regard  to  Zend  and  Sanskrit,  they  prove  that  these 
two  languages  continued  together  long  after  they  were  separated  from 
the  common  Indo-European  stock." 

The  second  argument  in  support  of  the  proposition  I  have  under- 
taken to  prove  is,  that  both  of  the  nations  in  question,  viz.,  the  Indians 
and  the  Persians,  apply  to  themselves,  in  their  earliest  written  records, 
the  same  name  of  Aryas. 

The  Yedas  are,  as  I  have  already  shown,  the  oldest  of  all  the  Indian 
books.  They  are,  therefore,  not  only  the  most  authentic  source  of  in- 
formation in  regard  to  the  earliest  language  of  the  Indians,  but  there 
is  every  probability  that  they  would  preserve  more  distinct  and  exact 
traces  of  their  primeval  history  than  we  find  in  the  other  S'astras, 
which  were  composed  at  a  later  period,  when  the  most  genuine  tra- 
ditions of  the  origin  of  the  race  had  been  obscured  and  corrupted. 
From  the  Vedic  hymns  accordingly  it  does,  in  fact,  appear  more  dis- 
tinctly than  from  any  other  of  the  Indian  writings,  that  the  progenitors 
of  the  Hindus  were  originally  called  Aryas.  "We  find  this  name  ap- 
plied to  the  forefathers  of  the  higher  classes  among  the  Indians  (in 
contradistinction  to  the  Dasyus,  who  appear  to  have  been  a  people  of 
a  different  race,  and  to  have  been  settled  in  India  before  the  Aryas), 
in  such  passages  of  the  Vedas  as  the  following:  Eigve.da  i.  51,  8, 
"Distinguish  between  the  Aryas  and  those  who  are  Dasyus  j  chastizing 
those  who  observe  no  sacred  rites,  subject  them  to  the  sacrificer." 
E.  V.  i.  103,  3,  "Indra,  thunderer,  who  knowest  |[both],  hurl  thy 
shaft  against  the  Dasyu,  and  augment  the  might  and  glory  of  the 
Arya."" 

By  means  of  this  word  Arya,  then,  we  are  able  to  connect  the  early 
Hindus  with  the  early  Persians.  For,  first,  it  appears  that  in  ancient 
times  the  Modes  also  (who  were  eventually  included  in  one  empire 

"  The  original  passages,  with  many  other  similar  ones,  will  be  cited  farther  on. 


292        MEDES  CALLED  AEIANS  ACCORDING  TO  HERODOTUS. 

■with  the  Persians)"  bore  the  name  of  Arians.  This  is  clear  from  the 
following  passage  of  the  ancient  Greek  historian  Herodotus,  who  narrated 
the  wars  of  the  Greeks  and  Persians.  In  the  seventh  book  of  his  history, 
sect.  62,  we  have  the  following  statement : — ^EicaKkoVTO  Se  iraKai  irpo^ 
Trdvrmv  "Apiof  aTriKo/ievi]!;  Be  MijSe^iys  ttj?  Ko\%/So9  i^  'Adrjvecov 
6?  Tous  'Aplov<;  TOVTov^,  fjSTe^oXov  KCbi  oSroi  to  oxwofia'  avrol  Se 
irepl  ajieaiv  w8e  \«yoi/o-t  MriSoi.  "  They  (the  Medes)  were  formerly 
called  Arians  by  all.  But  when  the  Colchian  Medea  arrived  among 
these  Arians  from  Athens,  they  also  changed  their  name.  The  Medians 
say  these  things  of  themselves."  A  nation  or  tribe  bearing  the  name 
of  Arians  is  mentioned  by  Herodotus  in  sect.  66  of  the  same  book. 
Apioi  Se  ro^ouri  fiev  ia-Kevaafiivoi  rjaav  MrihiKoiai,  Tci  Be  aXka  Kara 
vep  BaKTpioi'  'Aplwv  Be  ^px^  Sia-d/ivrj^.  ' '  The  Arii  were  armed  with 
Median  bows,  but  in  other  respects  like  the  Bactrians.  The  Arii  were 
commanded  by  Sisamnes."  These  last  mentioned  Arians  appear  to  have 
dwelt  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Herat.  (See  Bahr's  Herod,  iii.  93,  and 
vii.  62.)  A  tribe  bearing  a  similar  name  is  mentioned  by  the  same 
author  as  paying  300  talents  tribute  along  with  the  Parthians,  Choras- 
mians,  and  Sogdians :  JJdpOoi,  Be  Kal  Xopd<Tfuoi  Kal  XoyBoi  re  xal 
Apeioi  Tpiaic6(7i,a  rdXavTa  (iii.  93).  The  same  people  are  men- 
tioned by^  Arrian  (iii.  8,  4)  as  forming  part  of  the  army  of  Darius : 
SaTi^ap^dvT]^  Be  6  'Apeuov  crarpdirr)';  'Apelov;  ^ye.  The  Arizanti 
are  specified,  Herod,  i.  101,  as  one  of  the  seven  Median  tribes.  In 
Herodotus  we  further  find  several  proper  names  which  are  compounded 
with  the  word  Arius ;  thus,  vii.  67,  the  commander  of  the  Kaspians 
is  caUed  Ariomardus.  In  the  78th  chapter  of  the  same  book,  another 
person  of  the  same  name,  and  son  of  Darius,  is  mentioned.     In  other 

"  On  the  mutual  relations  of  the  Medes  and  Persians  the  following  remarks  are 
made  by  Mr.  Eawlinson,  in  his  Herodotus,  vol.  i.  p.  401 :  "  That  the  Medes  were 
a  branch  of  the  great  Arian  family,  closely  allied  both  in  language  and  religion 
to  the  Persians,  another  Arian  tribe,  seems  now  to  be  generally  admitted.  The 
statement  of  Herodotus  with  regard  to  the  original  Median  appellation,  combined 
with  the  native  traditions  of  the  Persians  which  brought  their  ancestors  from  Aria, 
would,  perhaps,  alone  suffice  to  establish  this  ethnic  affinity.  Other  proofs,  however, 
are  not  wanting.  The  Medes  are  Invariably  called  Arians  by  the  Armenian  writers ; 
and  Darius  Hystaspes,  in  the  inscription  upon  his  tomb,  declared  himself  to  be  '  a 
Persian,  the  son  of  a  Persian,  an  Arian,  of  Arian  descent.'  Thus  it  appears  that 
the  ethnic  appellative  of  Arian  appertains  to  the  two  nations  equally ;  and  there  is 
every  reason  to  believe  that  their  language  and  religion  were  almost  identical." 


PROFESSOR  SPIEGEL  ON  THE  INDO-GEEMANIC  RACE.       293 

passages  of  the  same  writer  and  other  ancient  authors  (viz.  Xenophon, 
Polybius,  Arrian,  and  Quintus  Curtius),  such  names  as  Ariabignes,  Aria- 
ramnes,  Ariaces,  Ariaius,  Arimazes  and  Ariarathes  (=  Aryaratha),  are 
assigned  to  Persians.  The  ■woT6."Apiov,  which  occurs  in  the  ancient 
Greek  dramatist  ^schylus,  Choephoroi,  verse  423  {eKO^^a  ko/m/jlov 
"Apiov,  etc.,  "I  have  chaunted  a  Persian  dirge"),  is  interpreted  by 
the  scholiast  on  the  passage  as  equivalent  to  UepcriKov,  "  Persian." 

But,  further,  it  is  not  only  in  the  Greek  authors  that  we  find  the 
name  of  Arians  applied  to  the  Medes  or  Persians  ;  in  the  most  ancient 
books  of  the  Zoroastrian  religion  also,  which  are  composed  in  the  Zend 
language,  the  same  word,  as  a  designation  of  the  early  Persians,  is  of 
frequent  occurrence.  I  give,  in  a  somewhat  abridged  form.  Professor 
Spiegel's  abstract  of  the  evidence  which  exists  of  the  common  origin  of 
the  Indians  and  Persians,  as  the  most  recent  and  complete  of  which  I  am 
aware.  (See  his  translation  of  the  Avesta,  vol.  i.  Introduction,  pp.  4,  ff.) 
One  part  of  this  evidence  is  their  common  name  of  Arya. 

"Ethnography,  supported  by  her  two  handmaids,  physiology  and 
philology,  has  in  recent  times  demonstrated  that  a  single  race  (the 
Indo-Germanic)  has  spread  its  branches  over  the  whole  space  from 
India  to  the  most  westerly  point  of  Europe.  The  most  highly  gifted 
and  civilized  nations,  both  of  the  ancient  and  modern  world,  are  all 
derived  from  this  stock ;  viz.,  the  Indians,  Persians,  Greeks,  Eomans, 
Germans,  Slavonians,  and  perhaps  also  the  Celts.  All  these  nations 
are  branches  of  one  single  original  family,  whose  abodes  have  not  yet 
been  certainly  determined,  and  perhaps  will  never  be  ascertained  in  a 
way  to  preclude  all  dispute ;  but  it  is  probable  that,  in  the  earliest 
times,  all  these  races  dwelt  together  as  one  people,  on  the  elevated 
table-land  of  central  Asia.  The  emigration  of  this  people  from  their 
original  seats,  and  their  separation  into  different  branches,  are  events 
which  lie  anterior  to  all  history.  Paint  indications  of  the  degree  of 
culture  possessed  by  these  tribes  before  their  separation  may  be  derived 
from  the  terms  for  particular  conceptions  which  have  remained  com- 
mon to  them  aU ;  and  the  amount  of  their  knowledge  is  not  to  be 
estimated  too  low.  If  the  state  had  not  been  organized  by  them, 
the  family,  at  least,  had  been  already  regulated,  as  is  proved  by  the 
community  of  the  words  designating  relationships.  We  find  names 
common  to  them  for  the  different  kinds  of  cattle,  and  for  different 


294  PROFESSOR  SPIEGEL  ON  THE  LATER 

implements  of  husbandry.    Tteir  conceptions  of  the  gods,  on  the  con- 
trary, seem  to  have  continued  to  be  of  the  most  general  character. " 

"  But  in  addition  to  this  possession  by  the  whole  Indo-Germanic 
race  of  particular  words,  there  exists  a  closer  relationship  between 
single  members  of  this  family.  This  closer  relationship  is  to  be  ex- 
plained by  the  fact,  that  some  of  these  races  continued  to  live  together 
even  after  the  others  had  separated  from  them.  Thus,  for  example, 
the  Greeks  and  Eomans  have  much  that  is  common  to  both  in  their 
languages  and  in  their  ideas,  which  cannot  be  explained  by  their 
original  relationship.  But  in  no  instance  is  this  affinity  more  striking 
or  intimate  than  between  the  Indians  and  the  Persians.  These  two 
branches  must  have  lived  long  together  after  quitting  their  common 
cradle,  as  is  clearly  proved  by  linguistic  and  mythological  considera- 
tions. The  three  dialects  of  ancient  Persian  with  which  we  are  ac- 
quainted, viz.,  that  of  the  Cuneiform  Inscriptions,  that  of  the  second 
part  of  the  Tasna,  and  the  language  of  the  remaining  portions  of  the 
Avesta,  have  all  such  a  close  affinity  to  the  oldest  Indian  language, 
the  Sanskrit,  as  exhibited  in  the  Vedas,  that  they  might  almost  be  all 
called  dialects  of  one'  and  the  same  language.  Other  grounds,  par- 
ticularly of  a  mythological  character,  speak  no  less  strongly  in  proof 
of  the  two  tribes  (Indians  and  Persians)  having  adhered  long  to  each 
other.  It  is  of  especial  importance  that  they  both  call  themselves  by 
the  same  name.  Arya,  signifying  'honourable,'  in  ordinary  speech, 
and  derived  from  arya,  which  means  '  lord '  in  the  Vedas,  is  the  most 
usual  and  the  most  ancient  name  of  the  Indian  people.  (R.V.  i.  51,  8, 
and  Samaveda,  i.  1,  1,  5,  3.)  Among  the  Indians  the  term  Mlechha, 
which  denotes  an  impure  barbarian,  is  the  opposite  of  Arya.  The 
same  is  the  case  among  the  Pfersians.  According  to  the  Persian  laws 
of  euphony,  arya  had  to  be  changed  to  airya,  a  name  which  the  Per- 
sians long  applied  to  themselves,  and  out  of  which  the  more  modern 

'3  See  Kulin's  Dissertation  in  Weber's  Ind.  Stud.  i.  321,  ff.  The  elaborate  work  of 
M.  Adolphe  Pietet,  aboTe  quoted  (pp.  258,  266,  fif.),  has  for  its  object  to  discover,  by  a 
comparison  of  the  primitive  words  common  to  all  the  Arian  nations,  what  was  their 
original  and  common  country,  and  what  the  condition  of  the  parent  nation  as 
regarded  its  civilization  and  its  inteUeotual  and  religious  culture  before  the  separation 
of  the  several  branches.  The  first  volume,  relating  to  the  ethnography,  geography, 
and  natural  history  of  the  country,  appeared  in  1869;  and  the  second,  treating  of  the 
material  civilization,  the  social  condition,  and  the  intellectual,  moral,  and  religious 
life  of  the  Aryas,  was  published  in  1863. 


SEPARATION  OF  THE  INDIANS  AND  PERSIANS.  295 

Iran  has  arisen;  a  name,  too,  with  which  Herodotus  had  become 
acquainted.  To  this  word  airya,  another  word,  anairya,  non-iranic, 
is  opposed. 

"It  is,  however,  established  that  this  original  Arian  race,  from 
which,  at  a  later  period,  the  Indians  and  Persians  separated  themselves, 
cannot  have  lived  as  one  community  either  in  India  or  in  Persia.  We 
must  regard  it  as  demonstrated  that  the  Indians  who  spoke  Sanskrit 
were  not  autochthonous  in  Hindustan.  The  oldest  seats  of  the 
Indians  of  which  we  find  any  mention  made  are  to  be  placed  in  the 
Panjab.  In  the  First  Fargard  of  the  Vendidad,  verse  73,  a  country 
called  Hapta  Hendu,  or  India,  is  mentioned,  which,  in  the  Cuneiform 
Inscriptions,  is  called  Hidus.  It  was  not  understood  for  a  long  time 
what  was  signified  by  Hapta  Hendu,  Seven-Indias,  but  the  Vedas 
have  explained  this  name.  In  the  Vedic  hymns  we  find  the  name 
Sapta-Sindhavas,  the  seven  rivers,  still  employed  to  designate  the 
country  of  the  Indians.'*  Prom  the  Panjab,  the  Indians,  as  their  later 
books  testify,  advanced  further  towards  the  east ;  first,  as  far  as  the 
SarasvatI ;  after  which,  they  spread  themselves  over  the  whole  of 
northern  India;  and  only  at  a  late  period  into  the  south  of  the 
peninsula.  The  Persian  legends  conduct  us  with  the  same  distinct- 
ness to  a  primeval  country  in  the  north." 

"We  shall  shortly  have  to  return  to  this  question,  and  inquire  what 
were  the  primeval  seats  of  the  Arians.  In  the  mean  time,  I  revert  to 
the  afB.nities  of  the  Persians  and  Indians. 

The  third  proof  of  this  which  I  have  to  adduce  is,  the  coincidences 
which  are  discoverable  in  the  ancient  mythologies  of  the  two  nations. 
On  this  subject,  Professor  Spiegel  proceeds,  pp.  6,  ff. : — "  We  have 
already  said  that  the  different  branches  of  the  Arian  family  had  but 
few  words  in  common  connected  with  theology.  The  most  widely 
diffused  term  is  the  general  designation  of  God  as  'the  shining,' 
formed  from  the  ancient  root,  '  div'  or  'dya'  '  to  shine.'  Prom  this  is 
derived  the  Sanskrit  'deva,'  the  Latin  'deus,'  the  Lithuanian  'dievas,'  the 
German  'zio'and'tyr,'  theGreek^eu?,  and  also  Jupiter  from  'Diespiter.' 
The  old  Persian  'daeva'  belongs  to  the  same  root,  but  has  (on  what 
grounds  we  shall  presently  discover)  a  somewhat  different  signification. 
More  intimate  mythological  affinities  are  only  to  be  found  between 
'*  Spiegel,  Aresta,  vol.  i.  p.  66,  note  3, 


296  PEOOFS  OF  THE  LATER  SEPARATION 

particular  branches  of  the  Indo-Germanio  family,  as  between  the 
Greeks  and  Komans,  and  especially  between  the  Indians  and 
Persians.  A  number  of  personages  found  in  the  Veda  correspond  in 
name  with  others  in  the  Avesta,  and  must  originally  have  been  com- 
pletely identical,  though  in  the  course  of  events,  it  has  naturally 
occurred  that  this  similarity  has  become  more  or  less  effaced.  One 
personage  whose  identity  was  the  first  to  attract  attention,  is  the 
Tama  of  the  Indians  [the  son  of  Vivasvat],  the  Tima  of  the  Persians 
[who  is  the  son  of  Yivaiihvant].  In  the  Vedas  and  Upanishads  we 
abeady  meet  with  Tama  as  the  king  of  the  dead.  He  inhabits  a 
particular  world,  where  he  has  assembled  the  immortals  around  him. 
Among  the  ancient  Indians  his  world  is  not  a  place  of  terrors,  but  its 
expanses  are  full  of  light,  and  the  abodes  of  happiness,  pleasure,  and 
rapture.'*  In  Iran,  Tima  is  a  fortunate  monarch,  under  whose  rule 
there  was  neither  death  nor  sickness.  After  he  has  for  some  time  con- 
tinued to  diffuse  happiness  and  immortality,  he  is  obliged  to  withdraw 
with  his  attendants  to  a  more  contracted  space,  on  account  of  the 
calamities  which  threaten  the  world.  Here  lies,  according  to  my  view, 
the  point  of  connexion  between  the  two  legends.  The  Indian  regards 
Tama  simply  as  the  king  of  the  dead,  or,  at  least,  of  the  blessed :  the 
Persian  limits  the  number  of  the  blessed  to  a  determinate  number, 
who  are  selected  to  live  with  Tima. 

"  A  second  renowned  personage  in  the  Persian  heroic  poetry,  who 
also  occurs  in  the  Vedas,  is  Thraetaono,  the  descendant  of  Athwya, 
the  Predun,  or  Feridun  of  a  later  period,  with  whom  the  Trita  of  the 
Veda  is  connected.  Trita  is  the  son  of  Aptya,  and,  according  to  the 
Vedic  accounts,  he  fights  with  a  serpent,  and  smites  a  three-headed 
dragon  with  seven  tails,  and  liberates  the  cattle.  Quite  similarly, 
Thraetaono  destroys  a  pestilent  serpent  with  three  heads,  three  girdles, 
six  tails,  and  a  thousand  powers. 

"A  third  personage,  who  can  be  pointed  out  in  both  the  Indian 
and  Persian  mythology,  is  Sama  Kereiaipa,  the  man  of  heroic  temper, 
and  the  same  as  the  Krisasva  of  the  Indians,  who,  it  is  true,  has  not 
yet  been  discovered  in  the  Veda,  but  who  was  known  to  the  Indian 

'^  See  E.V.  ix.  113,  7-11,  quoted  ty  Roth  in  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental. 
Society,  iv.  426,  ff.     The  original  passage  will  be  given  in  the  App.  note  E. 


OF  THE  PERSIANS  AND  INDIANS.  297 

grammarian  Panini,  and  is  frequently  named  in  the  Puranas  as  a  war- 
like rishi.  (Eamay.  i.  23,  12,  Schleg. ;  i.  31,  10,  Gorres.) 

"To  ttese  three  personages  may  now  be  added  a  fourth,  Kava  TJ^, 
or  the  Kavya  U^anas  of  the  Vedas.  This  is  the  person  called  Eaus  at 
a  later  period  in  the  Persian  legends.  Unfortunately,  the  stories  of 
Eava  Ui  are  so  few  and  so  brief,  that  I  can  scarcely  venture  to  indi- 
cate their  connexion  more  in  detail.  (See  "Weber  Vaja.-S.  Spec;  II. 
68,  note.) 

"  In  addition  to  this  identity  of  personages,  we  find  also  that  the 
Indians  and  Persians  have  some  important  ceremonies  in  common. 
We  shall  here  only  mention  two,  though  a  closer  examination  of  the 
Persian  liturgy  will  no  doubt  bring  others  to  light.  The  first  is  the 
Soma  or  Homa  offering.  (See  also  vol-  ii.  of  Spiegel's  Avesta,  p.  69.) 
In  both  the  Indian  and  the  Persian  religions,  soma,  or  haoma,  which  is 
identical  with  it,  is  the  name  of  a  plant,  the  juice  of  which  is  pressed 
out  and  drunk,  with  certain  religious  forms;  and  in  both  reKgions 
Soma  is  also  a  god."  Soma  and  Haoma  have  also  a  great  number  of 
epithets  common  to  them,  which  clearly  show  how  short  a  period  had 
elapsed  since  the  Persian  and  Indian  adherents  of  this  worship  had 
become  separated  from  each  other." 

The  Indians  and  Persians  have  also  at  least  one  of  their  deities  in 
common,  viz.,  Mitra. 

"In  the  Yeda,  (says  Dr.  F.  "Windischmann,  Mithra,  pp.  54,  56, 
and  63)  Mitra  occurs  as  the  son  of  Aditi  (boundless  space),  and 
hence  parallel  with  the  sun,  and  stands  almost  always  inseparably 
associated  with  Varuna.  He  appears  to  belong  to  a  race  of  gods  who 
are  abeady  disappearing,  and  has  resigned  a  portion  of  his  functions 
to  Indra.  In  the  Veda  Mitra  is  the  Hght,  while  Varuna  is  to  be 
understood  of  the  sky,  especially  the  nocturnal  sky.  The  connexion 
of  Mitra  and  Varuna  in  the  Veda  is  analogous  to  that  of  Mithra  and 
Vayu  in  the  Zend  texts.  Mithra  is  thus  an  ancient  national  god  of 
the  Arians;  and  the  character  under  which  he  is  represented  in  the 
Zend  Avesta  has  many  points  of  resemblance  to  the  Vedic  Mitra, 
though  it  has  also  essential  differences  of  Zoroastrian  origin.  Arya- 
man,  who  is  to  be  understood  of  the  siin,  appears,  in  E.V.  i.  36,  4, 

'6  See  'Wmdischmann,  TJeter  den  SomacultuB  der  Arier :  and  App.  note  F. 
VOL.  II.  20 


298  EITE  OF  INITIATION  IN  INDIA  AND  PERSIA. 

and  elsewhere,  along  witt  Mitra  and  Yaruna.     His  name  signifie 
companion  or  friend,  and  he  also  occurs  in  the  Zend  texts."  " 

I  proceed  with  my  quotation  from  Professor  Spiegel's  Introduction, 
i.  8 :  Secondly,  "  The  reception  of  neophytes  into  the  sacred  society 
is  performed  among  both  peoples,  the  Persians  and  the  Indians,  by 
investing  them  with  a  girdle  or  thread.  In  the  ease  of  a  Brahman 
the  investiture  is  to  be  performed  in  the  eighth  year  after  his  birth 
or  conception,  in  the  case  of  a  Kshatriya  in  the  eleventh,  and  of  a 
Vai^ya  in  the  twelfth.  But  the  period  of  investiture  for  a  Brahman 
has  not  finally  expired  tiU  his  sixteenth  year,  for  a  Kshatriya  till  his 
twenty-second,  or  for  a  Vaisya  till  his  twenty-fourth."  After  the 
investiture,  the  teacher  is  to  instruct  the  pupil  in  reading  the  Vedas, 
and  in  the  rites  of  purification.  (Manu,  ii.  69;  Tajnavalkya,  i.  15.) 
Up  to  his  seventh  year  the  Parsee  is  incapable  of  doing  any  evU. ;  and 
if  he  does  anything  wrong,  the  blame  of  it  falls  on  his  parents.  In 
India  he  is  invested  with  the  Kosti  or  sacred  girdle  in  his  seventh 

"  Professor  Spiegel,  in  his  note  to  the  22nd  Fargard,  vol.  i.  p.  266,  says  of  the 
last-named  god, — "  It  is  to  be  lamented  that  the  god  who  is  here  designated  by  the 
name  of  Airyama  occurs  but  seldom,  and  is  but  briefly  noticed  in  the  Avesta ;  for  he 
is  unquestionably  the  ancient  Indo-Germanic  deity,  who  is  mentioned  in  the  Vedas 
under  the  name  of  Aryaman ;"  but  subsequently,  on  maturer  consideration,  retracted 
this  opinion.  In  Kuhn  and  Schleicher's  Beitrage  zur  Vergl.  Sprachf.  i.  131,  ff.,  he 
says  :  "  I  have  in  my  note  on  Vend.  ixii.  23  (p.  266),  regarded  the  Airyama  of  the 
last  chapter  as  the  Vedic  Aryaman.  This  comparison  is  only  in  part  correct.  It  is 
true  that,  letter  for  letter,  Airyama  is  the  Sanskrit  Aryaman,  and  therefore  the  pho- 
netic affinity  cannot  be  doubted.  It  does  not,  however,  follow  that  the  signification 
must  therefore  be  the  same.  If,  as  is  supposed  by  many,  the  Iranians  had  issued 
from  the  bosom  of  the  Indian  people,  if  the  entire  culture  of  the  Indians,  as  exhibited 
in  the  Vedas,  had  been  the  basis  of  theirs,  this  assumption  would  be  less  questionable. 
But  according  to  my  view  such  is  not  the  case,  but  the  separation  of  the  two  nations 
took  place  before  (though,  perhaps,  not  long  before)  the  Vedic  period.  The  question 
thus  arises  whether — supposing  both  nations  to  have  already  had  the  word  Aryaman 
— we  are  to  assume  that  the  conception  of  the  god  Aryaman  had  been  already  formed. 
The  word  occurs  in  several  places  in  the  second  part  of  the  Tafaa,  where,  however, 
the  context  does  not  justify  us  in  explaining  it  as  a  proper  name."  Spiegel  then 
goes  on  to  state  his  opinion  that  in  the  last  chapter  of  the  Vendidad  Airyama  is  not 
to  be  understood  of  a  god,  but  merely  as  denoting  a  particular  prayer  in  which  that 
word  occurs,  and  which  Ahura  Mazda  discovers  to  be  more  efficacious  in  healing 
sickness  than  another  sacred  text  to  which  he  had  first  had  recourse. 

"  Arfvalayana  Grihya-Sutra,  i.  .20 : — Ashtame  varshe  irahmanam  upanayed 
garbkaahfame  v3  |  ekadase  Itahatriyam  dvadaie  iiaisyam  \  a  shodasad  brahmanasya 
OMafitah  halali  a  dvavim'dt  Icshatriyasya  a  chaturvimsad  vais'yasya — ata^  urddhvam 
patitH'Savitrikah  hhavanti  \ 


SEPARATION  OF  THE  PERSIANS  AND  INDIANS.  299 

year;  among  the  Parseea  who  live  in  Kirman,  the  ceremony  is  post- 
poned till  the  tenth  year.  From  the  seventh  to  the  tenth  year,  half 
the  blame  of  the  offences  which  the  child  commits  falls  upon  his 
parents.  With  his.  tenth  year  the  boy,  according  to  the  view  of  the 
Eavaets,  enters  formally  into  the  community  of  the  Parsees ,-  according 
to  other  books^  the  fifteenth  year  appears  to  be  that  in  which  he  is 
admitted  into  religious  fellowship. 

"AH  these  traces  of  a  common  development  which  we  have  just 
pointed  out  between  the  Indians  and  the  Persians  have  their  origin, 
of  course,  in  a  pre-historical  period,  when  both  nations  lived  together 
undivided.  Traces  can  also  be  discovered  which  lead-  to  the  conclusion 
that  the  separation  of  these  two  races  was  occasioned,  in  part  at  least, 
by  religious  causes."  Even  if  it  have  been  accidental  that  Ahura,  the 
highest  god  of  the  Persians,  was,  under  the  designation  of  Asura,*° 
reckoned  among  evil  spirits  by  the  later  Indians,  it  can  scarcely  have 
happened  by  chance  that  the  Devas  of  the  Indians  have,  under  the 
name  of  Daevas,  been  transformed  into  evil  spirits  and  allies  of  Angra 
Mainyus ;  that  Indra,  the  highest  god  of  the  earliest  Hinduism,  is,  in 
like  mannner,  banished  to  hell;  and  that  S'arva  occurs  as  an  evil 
spirit,  while  the  Indians  have  considered  this  name  worthy  to  be  a 
designation  of  S'iva,  one  of  the  three  highest  deities  of  the  later 
form  of  their  religion."     The  conjecture  is  therefore  not  unnatural 

'3  In  his  second  volume,  however,  Professor  Spiegel  adds,,  on  this  subject,  the 
following  reservation  : — "  In  the  first  volume  I  have  alluded  to  a  religious  aliena- 
tion ;  but  too  much  importance  is  not  to  be  ascribed  to  this  view,  and  no  adven- 
turous hypotheses  should  be  built  upon  it.  Even  without  the  assumption  of  a 
religious  alienation,,  it  is  quite  conceivable  how  gods,  who  were  held  in  honour  by 

the  one  people,  should  be  degraded  to  the  infernal  regions  by  the  other 

That  which  gives  probability  to  the  assumption  of  an  actual  alienation  between  the 
Indians  and.  the  Iranians  on  account  of  their  religious  conceptions,  is  the  fact  that 
the  number  of  these  opposing  conceptions  is  not  inconsiderable,"  pp.  cix.  ex.  On 
the  same  subject  Dr.  Justi  writes  in  the  introduction  to  his  Handbook  of  the  Zend 
Language,  p.  v : — "  The  nature-religion  derived  from  the  primeval  days  of  the  Arian 
race  vanished  before  the  new  doctriae  (of  Zaratushtra),  and  its  deities  shared  the 
fate  of  so  many  heathen  divinities,  which  Christianity  thrust  down  into  hell." 

80  "Derived  from  asu  =prajna,  'wisdom,'  in.  the  Nighantus,  The  word  asur^ 
has  also  a  good  sense  in  Vedic  Sanskrit ;  it  means  sarmsham  pranadah.  Comp. 
Sayana  on  R.V.  xxxv.  7,  10."  Compare  my  article  "  On  the  Interpretation  of  the 
Veda"  in  the  Journal  R.A.S.  for  1866,  p.  376,  ff.,  and  BohtKngk  and  Roth's  Lexicon,, 

81  See,  however,  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  p.  121,  where  it  is  stated,  on  the- 


300        CONCLUSION  FKOM  FRECEDING  DATA. 

that  religious  diflferenoes  may  Have  been  one  of  the  grounds  of  separa- 
tion. Still,  even  after  their  separation,  the  Indians  and  Persians  did 
not  remain  without  some  knowledge  of  each  other's  progress.  They 
were  not  too  far  separated  to  render  this  possible ;  and  the  Tendidad 
(i.  74)  still  shows  an  acquaintance  with  India  under  the  name  of 
Hapta-Hendu,  i.e.  Sapta  Sindhavah,  the  land  of  the  Seven  rivers, 
which  was  a  designation  of  the  Vedic  India." 

On  the  same  subject  Professor  MiiUer  remarks:  "  Still  more  striking 
is  the  similarity  between  Persia  and  India  in  religion  and  mjrthology. 
Gods  unknown,  to  any  Indo-European  nation  are  worshipped  under  the 
same  names  in  Sanskrit  and  Zend ;  and  the  change  of  some  of  the 
most  sacred  expressions  in  Sanskrit  into  names  of  evil  spirits  in  Zend 
only  serves  to  strengthen  the  conviction  that  we  have  here  the  usual 
traces  of  a  schism  which  separated  a  community  that  had  once  been 
united."  (Last  Eesults  of  Persian  Eesearohes,  p.  112;  "Chips," 
i.  83.) 

From  the  three-fold  argument  above  stated, — drawn  (1st)  from  the 
striking  similarity  between  the  Sanskrit  and  Zend,  (2nd)  from  the 
common  name  of  Arya,  applied  to  themselves  by  both  the  Indians 
and  the  Iranians,  and  (3rd)  from  the  coincidences  between  the  religion 
and  mythology  of  these  two  nations, — I  conceive  that  a  powerful  con- 
firmation is  derived  to  the  conclusion  which  I  have  been  endeavouring 
to  establish,  namely,  the  common  origin  of  all  the  nations  to  which 
the  name  of  Indo-European  has  been  applied.  If  even  from  philo- 
logical considerations  alone  we  are  entitled  to  assume  the  descent  of 
the  Indians,  Iranians,  Greeks,  and  Komans,  from  the  same  common 
ancestors,  our  general  conclusion  is  greatly  strengthened  when  we  can 
(in  the  case  of  two  of  these  nations)  add  to  the  arguments  founded 
on  language,  the  further  evidence  derivable  from  community  of  name, 
and,  to  a  certain  extent,  of  tradition  and  of  mythology. 

authority  of  Professor  Spiegel,  that  the  materials  afforded  by  the  Zend  books  are  not 
sufficient  to  afford  a  basis  for  any  positive  conelusions  in  reference  to  the  god  Andra, 
and  his  relation  to  the  Vedio  Indra.     See  also  the  note  in  the  same  page. 


WHAT  WAS  THE  PEIMITIVE  HOME  OF  THE  AEYASf        301 

Sect.  YI. —  Was  India  the  primitive  country  of  the  Aryas  and  Indo' 
JEkropecm  races? 

As  we  have  been  led  by  the  preceding  investigation  to  conclude  (1)  ' 
that  the  Sanskrit,  the  Zend,  the  Greek,  and  the  Latin  languages  must 
all  have  had  a  common  origin;  (2)  that  the  races  also  who  employed 
these  several  languages  were  all  branches,  more  or  less  pure,  of  one 
great  family;  and  (3)  that  consequently  the  ancestors  of  these  differ- 
ent branches  must  at  one  time  have  lived  together  as  one  nation  in  one 
country : — ^we  have  now  to  determine,  if  possible,  what  that  country  was. 
First,  then,  was  India  the  common  cradle  of  the  Indo-Germanic  races, 
and  did  the  other  branches  of  that  great  family  all  migrate  westward 
from  Hindustan,  while  the  Indo-Arians  remained  in  their  primeval 
abodes?  or,  secondly,  are  we  to  assume  some  other  country  as  the  point 
from  which  the  several  sections  of  the  race  issued  forth  in  different 
directions  to  the  various  countries  which  they  eventually  occupied  ? 

Mr.  A.  Curzon  maintains'''  the  first  of  these  two  theories,  viz.,  that 
India  was  the  original  country  of  the  Arian  family,  from  which  its 
different  branches  emigrated  to  the  north-west,  and  in  other  directions. 

The  opinion  that  the  Arians  are  a  people  of  an  origin  foreign  to  the 
soil  of  India,  which  they  are  presumed  to  have  invaded  and  conquered, 
imposing  their  religion  and  institutions  on  the  so-called  aborigines,  is 
rejected  by  him  as  one  founded  on  very  insufficient  data,  and  as  resting 
on  no  well-established  historical  grounds.  He  thinks  that  it  is  a  course 
opposed  to  the  evidence  of  facts  based  on  the  results  of  comparative 
phjlolo^  to  maintain  that  the  barbarous  aboriginal  tribes  of  India, 
destitute  of  written  records,  traditional  religious  system,  or  well-defined 
institutions,  can  be  more  ancient  than  the  Arian  Hindus,  the  possessors 
of  an  early  civilization.  These  rude  tribes  may,  in  his  opinion,  have 
sprung  from  some  of  the  barbaric  hordes,  who,  under  the  name  of 
S'akas,  Hunas,  etc.,  are  mentioned  by  Sanskrit  writers  as  having  in- 
vaded India,  and  who,  after  their  defeat,  may  have  taken  refuge  in  the 
hills  and  forests  of  Hindustan. 

Reviewing  the  different  possible  suppositions  as  to  the  way  in  which 

the  Arians  may  have  entered  India,  Mr.  Curzon  infers  (1)  that  they 

could  not  have  entered  from  the  west,  because  it  is  clear  that  the 

people  who  lived  in  that  direction  were  descended  from  these  very 

B2  Journal  of  the  Eoyal  Asiatic  Society,  toI,  xvi.  pp.  172-200. 


302  INDIA  THE  ORIGINAL  COtTNTRT  OF 

Arians  of  India ; — suet  descent  being  proved  by  tte  fact  that  the  oldest 
forms  of  their  language  have  been  derived  from  the  Sanskrit  (to  which 
they  stand  in  a  relettion  analogous  to  that  in  which  the  Pali  and 
Prakrit  stand),  and  by  the  circumstance  that  a  portion  of  their 
mythology  is  borrowed  from  that  of  the  Indo- Arians.  Nor  (2)  could 
the  Arians,  in  his  opinion,  have  entered  India  from  the  north  or  north- 
west, because  we  have  no  proof  from  history  or  phUelogy  that  there 
existed  any  civilized  nation  with  a  language  and  religion  resembling 
theirs  which  could  have  issued  from  either  of  those  quarters  at  that 
early  period  and  have  created  the  Indo-Arian  civilization.  It  was 
equally  impossible  (3)  that  the  Arians  could  have  arrived  in  India 
from  the  east,  as  the  only  people  who  occupied  the  countries  lying  in 
that  direction  (the  Chinese)  are  quite  different  in  respect  of  language, 
religion,  and  customs  from  the  Indians,  and  have  no  genealogical  rela- 
tions with  them.  In  like  manner  (4)  the  Indians  could  not  have 
issued  from  the  table-land  of  Thibet  in  the  north-east,  as,  independently 
of  the  great  physical  barrier  of  the  Himalaya,  the  same  ethnical  diffi- 
culty applies  to  this  hypothesis  as  to  that  of  their  Chinese  origin. 
And  (5)  the  Indians  cannot  be  of  Semitic  or  Egyptian  descent,  because 
the  Sanskrit  contains  no  words  of  Semitic  origin,  and  differs  totally  in 
structure  from  the  Semitic  dialects,  with  which,  on  the  contrary,  the 
language  of  Egypt  appears,  rather,  to  exhibit  an  affinity.  And  (6)  "  no 
monuments,  no  records,  no  tradition  of  the  Arians  having  erer  origi- 
nally occupied,  as  Arians,  any  other  seat  than  the  plains  to  the  south- 
west of  the  Himalayan  chain,  bounded  by  the  two  seas  defined  by  Manu 
(memorials  such  as  exist  in  the  histories  of  other  nations  who  are  known 
to  have  migrated  from  their  primitive  abodes),  can  be  found  in  India." 
Mr.  Curzon  (7)  regards  as  illogical  the  inference,  that  because  the 
Arians  spread  at  an  early  period  to  the  south  of  India,  as  they  did  also 
to  the  west  and  north-west,  they  must  have  originally  issued  from  some 
unknown  region  to  invade  and  conquer  India  itself.  In  the  same  way, 
he  urges,  it  might  be  argued  that  the  Eomans  invaded  Italy  from  some 
unascertained  quarter  (instead  of  springing  from  one  region  of  Italy), 
because  they  extended  their  dominion  to  the  south,  as  well  as  in  other 
directions.  In  explanation  of  their  movements,  he  quotes  the  passage 
of  Manu,  ii.  17,  ff.  (which  will  be  hereafter  given  at  length),  and 
assumes,  in  accordance  with  the  indications  which  it  affords,  that  the 


THE  AEIANS,  ACCOEDING  TO  ME.  CUEZON.  303 

earliest  seat  of  Indian  civilization  was  in  Brahmayartta ;  and  that  the 
Arians,  as  they  increased  in  numbers  and  advanced  in  social  progress, 
gradually  moved  forward  to  the  central  region  called  Madhyadesa,  and 
eventually  to  Aryavartta,  the  tract  between  the  Himalaya  and  the 
Vindhya,  extending  from  the  eastern  to  the  western  sea.  Mr.  Curzon 
admits  the  existence  of  a  non-Arian  people  and  nationality,  viz.,  the 
Tamulian  in  the  south,  which  he  conceives  may  have  been  in  course  of 
formation  contemporaneously  with  the  rise  of  the  Arian  community 
in  the  north ;  though  he  thinks  that  there  is  nothing  to  indicate  that 
the  Tamulians,  or  the  hUl  tribes,  or  any  other  indigenous  race,  were 
ever  in  possession  of  Aryavartta  (the  country  north  of  the  Vindhya) 
before  its  occupation  by  the  Arians. 

His  conclusion  (founded  on  the  assumption  that  aU  the  languages  of 
the  Arian  family  have  been  framed  from  a  Sanskrit  basis,  and  are  only 
modified  and  corrupted  forms  of  what  was  once  the  original  tongue  of 
the  Arian  race  of  India)  is  therefore  the  following,  viz.,  that  either 
(1)  the  nations  whose  speech  is  derived  from  Sanskrit  have  sprung 
from  the  gradual  dispersion  of  the  ancient  Arian  race  of  India,  such 
dispersion  being  occasioned  by  political  or  religious  causes,  issuing  in 
the  expulsion  from  India  of  the  defeated  parties,  and  their  settlement 
in  different  unoccupied  countries  chiefly  to  the  westward ;  or  (2)  that 
the  Arians  invaded  the  countries  to  the  west  and  north-west  of  India, 
and  conquered  the  various  tribes  inferior  to  themselves,  who  were 
there  in  possession,  imposing  upon  them  their  own  institutions  and 
language.  Of  these  two  alternative  suppositions,  he  conceives  the 
latter  to  have  the  greater  probability  in  its  favour.  As  regards  the 
time  when  the  Arian  advance  in  a  westerly  direction  took  place, 
he  thinks  that  "  it  was  subsequently  to  their  extension  over  this 
territory  [the  Dekhan]  and  its  occupation,  which  may  be  regarded 
as  the  third  era  in  their  history,  when  the  Arians  had  attained  an 
advanced  state  of  civilization,  when  the  Vedas  had  been  composed,  and 
a  national  system  of  religion  established ;  when  the  Brahmanical  hier- 
archy had  been  formed,  the  Arian  tongue  cultivated,  and  codes  of 
law  compiled ;  when  tribes  had  separated  under  particular  princes,  and 
founded  different  governments  in  various  parts  of  the  country ;  when 
religious  schisms  had  begun  to  arise,  anti-Brahmanioal  sects  had  in- 
creased, political  dissensions  and  civil  war  had  spread  their  effects — 


304         ME.  ELPHINSTONE  LEAVES  IT  UNDECIDED  "WHETHER 

that  the  migrations  in  a  westerly  and  north-westerly  direction  which 
terminated  in  the  extension  of  the  Arian  tongue  over  the  geographical 
zone,"  [including  Ariana,  Persia,  Armenia,  Thrygia,  Gieece,  Italy, 
Germany,  etc.  etc.],  which  he  had  "pointed  out,  took  place." 

I  haye  stated  the  opinion  of  Mr.  Curzon  on  this  question,  together 
with  his  arguments,  in  considerahle  detail,  as  it  represents  the  view  to 
which  the  Indian  reader  will,  no  doubt,  incline  as  the  most  reasonable 
(see  above,  p.  259) ;  and  it  is  therefore  only  fair  that  aU  -that  can 
be  nrged  in  its  behalf  shoiild  be  fully  stated. 

Before  discussing  Mr.  Curzon's  .hypothesis,  I  shall  adduce  ihe  state- 
ment given  by  Mr.  Elphinstone  (History  of  India,  wol.  i.,  p.  95,  ff.,  1st 
edition)  on  the  same  subject.  It  wiU  be  seen  that  after  reviewing  the 
arguments  on  both  sides,  this  distinguished  autbor  leaves  it  undecided 
whether  the  Hindus  sprang  from  a  country  external  to  Hindustan,  or 
were  autochthonous. 

"  On  looking  back  to  the  information  collected  from  the  Code  [of 
Manu]  we  observe  the  three  twice-born  classes  forming  the  whole 
community  embraced  by  the  law,  and  the  Sudras  in  a  servile  and 
degraded  condition.  Tet  it  appears  that  there  are  cities  governed  by 
Sudra  kings,  in  which  Brahmins  are  advised  not  to  reside  (chap, 
iv.  61),  and  that  there  are  'whole  territories  inhabited  by  Sudras, 
overwhelmed  with  atheists,  and  deprived  of  Brahmins '  (chap.  viii.  52). 
The  three  twice-born  classes  are  directed  invariably  to  dwell  in  the 
country  between  the  Himawat  and  the  Vindya  Mountains,  from  the 
eastern  to  the  western  ocean.  But  though  the  three  chief  classes  are 
confined  to  this  tract,  a  Sudra  distressed  for  subsistence  may  dwell 
where  he  chooses  (chap.  ii.  21-24).  It  seems  impossible  not  to  con- 
clude from  all  this  that  the  twice-born  men  were  a  conquering  people; 
that  the  servile  class  were  the  subdued  aborigines ;  and  that  the  in- 
dependent Sudra  towns  were  in  such  of  the  small  iterritories,  into 
which  Hindostan  was  divided,  as  stiU  retained  their  independence, 
while  the  whole  of  the  tract  beyond  the  Tindya  Mountains  remained 
as  yet  untouched  by  the  invaders,  and  unpenetrated  by  their  religion. 
A  doubt,  however,  soon  suggests  itself  whether  the  conquerors  were 
a  foreign  people,  or  a  local  tribe,  like  the  Dorians  in  Greece;  or 
whether,  indeed,  they  were  not  merely  a  portion  of  one  of  the  native 
states  (a  religious  sect,  for  instance)   which  had  outstripped  their 


THE  HIJiTiJXJS  WERE  AUTOCHTHONOUS  OR  IMMIGRANTS.      305 

fellow-citizetis  in  knowledge,  and  appropriated  all  the  advantages  of 
the  society  to  themselves. 

"The  different  appearance  of  the  higher  classea  from  the  Sudras, 
which  is  so  observable  to  this  day,  might  iacline  us  to  think  them 
foreigners ;  but  without  entirely  denying  this  argument  (as  far  at  least 
as  relates  to  the  Brahmins  and  Cshetriyas),  we  must  advert  to  some 
considerations  which  greatly  weaken  its  force. 

"The  class  most  unlike  the  Brahmins  are  the  Chandalas,  who  are 
nevertheless  originally  the  offspring  of  a  Brahmin  mother,  and  who 
might  have  been  expected  to  have  preserved  their  resemblance  to 
their  parent  stock,  as,  from  the  very  lowness  of  their  caste,  they  are 
prevented  mixing  with  any  race  but  their  own.^  Difference  of  habits 
and  employments  is,  of  itself,  sufficient  to  create  as  great  a  dis- 
similarity as  exists  between  the  Brahmin  and  the  Sudra;  and  the 
hereditary  separation  of  professions  in  India  would  contribute  to  keep 
up  and  to  increase  such  a  distinction. 

"  It  is  opposed  to  their  foreign  origin,  that  neither  in  the  Code  [of 
Manu],  nor,  I  believe,  in  the  Vedas,  nor  in  any  book  tTiat  is  certainly 
older  than  the  Code,  is  there  any  allusion  to  a  prior  residence,  or  to 
a  knowledge  of  more  than  the  name  of  any  country  out  of  India. 
Even  mythology  goes  no  further  than  the  Himalaya  chain,  in  which 
is  fixed  the  habitation  of  the  gods. 

"The  common  origin  of  the  Sanskrit  language  with  those  of  the 
West  leaves  no  doubt  that  there  was  once  a  connexion  between  the 
nations  by  whom  they  are  used^;  but  it  proves  nothing  regarding  the 
place  where  such  a  connexion  subsisted,  nor  about  the  time,  which 
might  have  been  in  so  early  a  stage  of  their  society  as  to  prevent  its 
throwing  any  light  on  the  history  of  the  individual  nations.  To  say 
that  it  spread  from  a  central  point  is  a  gratuitous  assumption,  and  even 
contrary  to  analogy ;  for  emigration  and  civilization  have  not  spread 
in  a  circle,  but  from  east  to  west.  Where,  also,  could  the  central 
point  be,  from  which  a  language  could  spread  over  India,  Greece,  and 
Italy,  and  yet  leave  Chaldea,  Syria,  and  Arabia  untouched? 

M  [See  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  2nd  edition,  p.  481,  and  Manu  x.  12,  there 
quoted.  It  is  clear,  however,  that  we  are  not  to  take  these  accounts  of  the  formation 
of  the  different  castes,  written  at  a  time  when  the  Brahmauical  system  was  faUy 
developed,  .aad  in  the  inteiest  of  its  dBfesnders,  as  famisking  the  true  history  of  their 
origin.    See  Lassen,  Ind.  Ant.,  1st  ed.,  i.  407,  and  2nd  ed.,  pp.  486,  f. — J.  M.] 


306  CENTEAL  INDIA  THE  CRADLE  OF  THE  AEIANS, 

"The  question,  therefore,  is  still  open.  There  is  no  reason  what- 
ever for  thinking  that  the  Hindus  ever  inhabited  any  country  but  their 
present  one;  and  as  little  for  denying  that  they  may  have  done  so 
before  the  earliest  trace  of  their  records  or  traditions."  ^ 

Mr.  Elphinstone  then  proceeds  to  explain  how  he  thinks  castes  may 
have  originated. 


Sect.  VII. — Central  Asia  the  cradle  ofiheAnans:  opinions  of  Schlegel, 
Lassen,  Benfey,  Muller,  Spiegel,  Renan,  and  Pictet. 

These  views  of  Mr.  Curzon,  of  which  I  have  given  a  summary  in 
the  preceding  section,  are  opposed  to  the  general  consent  of  European 
scholars.  A.  W.  von  Schlegel,  Lassen,  Benfey,  Muller,  "Weber,  Eoth, 
Spiegel,  Eenan,  and  Pictet,  however  differing  on  other  points,  all 
concur  in  this,  that  the  cradle  of  the  Indians,  as  well  as  of  the  other 
branches  of  the  Indo-Germanie  race,  is  to  be  sought  for  in  some 
country  external  to  India, 

I  shall  proceed  to  give  some  extracts  from  the  writings  of  these 
eminent  authors ;  and  shall  finish  with  a  summary  of  the  arguments 
which  seem  to  carry  most  weight  in  favour  of  the  conclusion  which 
they  have  adopted. 

The  first  authority  whom  I  shall  cite  is  A.  "W.  von  Schlegel,  who, 
in  an  essay  "On  the  Origin  of  the  Hindus,'"'  systematically  discusses 
the  question  under  consideration  in  all  its  bearing.  He  treats  of  the 
migratory  movements  of  ancient  nations,  of  the  traditions  of  the 
Hindus  regarding  their  own  origin,  of  the  diversities  of  races,  of  the 
physiological  character  of  the  Hindus  and  of  the  indigenous  Indian 
tribes,  of  the  bearing  of  comparative  philology  on  the  history  of 
nations,  on  the  relations  of  the  Arian  languages  to  each  other,  and 
finally  deduces  the  results  to  which  he  is  led  by  the  convergence  of 
aU  these  various  lines  of  investigation.  As  I  have  already  treated 
at  length  of  some  of  these  subjects,  I  shall  only  cite  two  passages, 
the  first  of  which  furnishes  a  reply  to  Mr.  Curzon's  argument  against 

8*  See  Appendix,  note  G. 

85  De  V  Origine  dea  Eindous,  published  originally  in  the  second  volume  of  the 
Transactions  of  the  Royal  Society  of  Literature,  London,  1834 ;  and  reprinted  in  his 
JEsaaia  Littdrairea  et  Siatoriqms,  Bonn,  1842, 


ACCORDING  TO  A.  "W.  YON  SCHLEGEL.  307 

the  immigration  of  the  Hindus  from  any  foreign  region,  drawn  from 
the  absence  of  any  national  tradition  to  that  effect.     It  is  as  follows: — 

"  In  inquiring  into  the  birth-place  of  any  people,  and  into  the  route 
by  which,  and  the  period  at  which,  they  have  travelled  to  their  present 
abodes,  we  are  naturaUy  tempted,  first  of  aU,  to  interrogate  the  popular 
tradition  on  these  points :  but  if  we  do  so,  it  may  easily  happen  that 
either  no  answer  at  all,  or  a  false  one,  wiU  be  obtained.  An  illiterate 
people,  ignorant  of  yrriting,  which  has  adopted  a  stationary  life,  after 
a  long  and  arduous  migration,  might,  after  a  few  centuries,  easily  lose 
all  recollection  of  its  change  of  habitation :  or,  if  certain  vestiges  of 
such  a  change  were  preserved,  it  might  be  impossible  for  a  people  so 
circumstanced  to  indicate  with  precision  the  point  of  departure;  as 
for  this  purpose  a  general  knowledge  of  the  shape  of  continents  and 
of  seas  would  be  necessary.  It  has  often  happened  that  tribes  in  a 
barbarous  state  have  emigrated,  either  impelled  by  necessity,  or  to 
avoid  some  powerful  neighbour.  The  utmost  that  such  tribes  could 
do  might  be  to  direct  their  journey  with  tolerable  exactness  according 
to  the  four  cardinal  points :  shaping  their  course  so  as  to  avoid  any 
unexpected  difficulties  which  might  arise,  they  would  suffer  themselves 
to  be  guided  by  chance ;  and  their  only  measure  of  distance  would  be 
the  fatigue  and  the  duration  of  their  march."     (Essais,  p.  444.) 

The  following  is  the  passage  in  which  Schlegel  sums  up  the  results 
of  his  researches : — 

"If  we  admit  (and  it  is  my  conviction  that  the  more  deeply  the 
subject  is  investigated  the  more  indubitable  will  the  conclusion  appear) 
that  the  derivation  of  the  [Indo-European]  languages  from  one  common 
parent  justifies  the  inference  that  the  nations  who  spoke  them  also 
issued  from  one  common  stock ;  that  their  ancestors,  at  a  certain  epoch, 
belonged  to  one  sole  nation,  which  became  divided  and  subdivided  as 
its  expansion  proceeded ; — the  question  naturally  arises,  what  was  the 
primeval  seat  of  that  parent  nation?  It  is  nowise  probable  that  the 
migrations  which  have  peopled  so  large  a  part  of  the  globe  should 
have  commenced  at  its  southern  extremity,  and  have  been  constantly 
directed  from  that  point  towards  the  north-west.  On  the  contrary, 
every  thing  concurs  to  persuade  us  that  the  colonies  set  out  from  a 
central  region  indivergent  directions.  According  to  this  supposition, 
the  distances  which  the  colonists  would  have  to  traverse  up  to  the 


308  INDIA  KOT  THE  BISTH-PLACE  OF  THE 

time  of  tbeir  defiaitive  establishmeut,  beoome  less  immense;  the 
vicisgitoxdes  pf  climate  to  which  they  were  exposed,  become  less  abrupt, 
and  many  of  Ijhe  emigrant  tribes  would  thus  make  an  advantageous 
exchange,  as  regards  fertility  of  soil  and  the  temperature  of  the  air. 
And  where  is  this  central  country  to  be  sought  for,  if  not  in  the 
interior  of  the  great  contiuent,  in  the  neighbourhood,  and  to  the  east 
of  the  Caspian  Sea?  It  may  perhaps  be  objected  that  the  country 
in  question  is  now  occupied  by  people  of  a  different  race :  but  to  how 
many  countries  has  it  not  happened  to  undergo  a  total  change  of  their 
inhabitants  ?  The  prolific  parent-country  of  so  many  swarms  of  ex- 
patriated colonists  might,  from  that  very  circumstance,  be  converted 
into  a  desert.  .  .  .  It  is  probable  that,  since  the  commencement 
of  history,  the  nature  of  this  country  has  changed,  and  that  in  former 
times  it  was  more  favourable  than  now  to  agriculture  and  to  popu- 
lation. According  to  my  hypothesis,  then,  the  ancestors  of  the 
Persians  and  Hindus  must  have  emigrated  from  their  early  seats 
towards  the  south-west  and  the  south-east ;  and  the  forefathers  of  the 
European  nations  towards  the  west  and  the  north.  ...  I  conceive 
that  the  tribes  which  migrated  towards  Europe  followed  two  great 
routes ;  the  one  along  the  northern  shores  of  the  Black  Sea ;  while 
the  other  traversed  Asia  Minor,  and  crossed  the  JEgean  Sea,  or  the 
Hellespont,  Thrace,  lUyria,  and  the  Adriatic.  It  was  indubitably 
by  this  latter  route  that  Greece  and  Italy  received  their  colonists." 
(Essais,  p.  514-517.) 

Professor  Lassen  also  decides  against  the  hypothesis  that  India  was 
the  birth-place  of  the  Indo-European  races.    He  says :  — ^ 

"  It  is,  as  we  have  seen,  a  result  of  modern  iavestigation  that  the 
ancient  language  of  the  Indians  is  so  intimately  related  to  those  of  the 
other  Indo-Germanic  nations  as  to  establish  the  original  unity  both  of 
these  languages  and  nations.  We  are  therefore  driven  to  the  conclu- 
sion either — 1st,  that  the  Indians  migrated  to  India  from  some  other 
primeval  seat;  or,  2nd,  that  all  the  kiadred  Indo-Germanic  nations 
had  their  origia  in  India.  The  following  considerations  determine  us 
to  decide  in  favour  of  the  former  of  these  alternatives. 

"It  would,  first,  be  an  improbable  supposition  that  the  nations 
which  are  now  so  widely  extended  should  have  been  derived  from  the 
86  Indian  Antifiiities,  tot  edition,  p.  512,  ff. ;  second  edition,  p.  613. 


INDO-EUEOHEAN  RACES,  ACCOEDING  TO  LASSEN.  309 

remotest  member  of  the  entire  seriea.  Thfiir  common  cradle  must  be 
sought,  if  not  in  the  very  centre,  at  all  events  in  such  a  situation  as  to 
render  a  diffusion  towards  the  different  regions  of  the  world  practicable. 
This  condition  is  not  well  fulfilled  by  supposing  India  to  be  the 
point  of  departure.  Secondly,  none  of  the  phenomena  of  speech,  cus- 
toms, or  ideas  obseryable  among  the  other  cognate  nations  indicate 
an  Indian  origin.  Of  the  countries  which  were  anciently  occupied 
by  the  great  Indo-Germanic  family,  India  was  the  most  peculiar, 
and  differed  the  most  widely  from  the  others ;  and  it  would  be  very 
unaccountable  that  no  trace  of  these  Indian  peculiarities  should  have 
been  preserved  by  any  Celtic  race  in  later  times,  if  they  had  all 
originally  dwelt  in  India.  Among  the  names  of  plants  and  animals 
which  are  common  to  all  these  nations  there  is  none  which  is  pecuHar 
to  India.*'  The  most  widely  diffused  word  for  any  species  of  corn 
{ya/ea)  denotes  not  rice,  but  barley.  Thirdly,  for  a  decision  of  this 
question,  the  manner  in  which  India  is  geographically  distributed 
among  the  different  nations  by  which  it  is  occupied  is  of  great  im- 
portance. The  diffusion  of  the  Arians  towards  the  south  points  to  the 
conclusion  that  they  came  from  the  north-west,  from  the  country  to 
the  north  of  the  Vindhya,  probably  from  the  region  bordering  on  the 
Jumna,  and  the  eastern  part  of  the  Punjab.  Their  extension  to  the 
east,  between  the  Himalaya  and  the  Viadhya,  also  indicates  the  same 
countries  as  their  earlier  seats.  We  find,  moreover,  evident  traces  of 
the  Arians,  in  their  advance  from  the  north-west,  having  severed 
asunder  the  earlier  population  of  Hindustan,  and  driven  one  portion 
of  it  towards  the  northern,  and  another  portion  towards  the  southern, 
hiUs.  Further,  we  cannot  assume  that  the  Arians  themselves  were  the 
earlier  inhabitants  who  were  pushed  aside ;  for  the  inhabitants  of  the 
Dekhan,  like  those  of  the  Vindhya  range,  appear  always  as  the  weaker 
and  retiring  party,  who  were  driven  back  by  the  Arians.  "We  cannot 
ascribe  to  the  non-Arian  tribes  the  power  of  having  forced  themselves 
forward  through  the  midst  of  an  earlier  Arian  population  to  the  seats 
which  they  eventually  occupied  in  the  centre  of  the  country;  but, 
on  the  contrary,  everything   speaks   in  favour  of  their  having  been 

8'  [This  circumBtance,  however,  might  be  accounted  for,  as  Weber  remarks 
{Modern  Investigations  on  Ancient  India,  p.  10),  by  the  names  being  forgotten,  from 
the  plants  and  animals  being  unknown  in  western  countries.   See  further  on. — J.M.] 


310  AEIAN  INDIANS  NOT  AUTOCHTHONOUS  IN 

originally  settled  in  those  tracts  where  we  find  them  at  a  later  period, 
and  of  their  having  once  occupied  a  more  extensive  territory.  These 
non-Arians  were  in  fact  feebler  races,  like  the  Australian  negroes  of  the 
Archipelago  and  the  red  men  of  America.  The  Arians,  on  the  other 
hand,  were  a  more  perfectly  organized,  enterprising,  and  creative 
people,  and  were  consequently  the  more  recent;  just  as  the  earth 
has  at  a  later  period  produced  the  more  perfect  classes  of  plants  and 
animiils.  Finally,  the  same  thing  is  shown  by  the  political  relation 
of  the  two  branches  of  the  population.  The  Arians  take  up  for 
themselves,  i.e.  for  the  three  highest  castes,  a  position  of  the  most 
complete  contrast  to  the  aboriginal  tribes,  first  of  all  by  the  name  of 
Arya,  and  next  by  their  prerogatives ;  for  the  name  of  'dvija,'  'twice- 
born,'  with  the  higher  rank  connected  with  it,  is  the  exclusive  de- 
signation of  the  three  upper  classes.  The  Arians  in  this  way  mark 
themselves  out  as  the  superior  and  conquering  race.  In  confirmation 
of  this  we  can  also  adduce  an  outward  mark,  that  of  complexion.  The 
word  for  caste  in  Sanskrit  (varna)  originally  signified  '  colour.'  The 
castes  therefore  were  distinguished  by  their  complexion.  But,  as  is 
well  known,  the  Brahmans  have  a  fairer  colour  than  the  S'udras  and 
Chandalas ;  and  the  Kshatriyas  and  Vaisyas,  who  were  also  Arians, 
must  have  participated  in  the  same  fair  complexion.  We  are  thus  led 
to  the  conclusion,  which  would  be  deducible  even  from  the  affinity  of 
language,  that  the  Arian  Indians  originally  distinguished  themselves  as 
white  men  from  the  dark  aborigines;  and  this  accords  with  the  as- 
sumption that  they  came  from  a  more  northern  country.'-' 

That  the  Arians  were  not  autochthonous  in  India,  but  came  from 
some  country  to  the  north,  is  also  the  opinion  of  Professor  Max  Miiller. 

"At  the  first  dawn  of  traditional  history  we  see  these  Arian  tribes 
migrating  across  the  snow  of  the  Himalaya  southward  toward  the 
'Seven  Eivers'  (the  Indus,  the  five  rivers  of  the  Panjab,  and  the 
SarasvatI),  and  ever  since  India  has  been  called  their  home.  That 
before  this  time  they  had  been  living  in  more  northern  regions,  within 
the  same  precincts  with  the  ancestors  of  the  Greeks,  the  Italians, 
Slavonians,  Germans,  and  Celts,  is  a  fact  as  firmly  established  as  that 
the  Normans  of  William  the  Conqueror  were  the  Northmen  of  Scandi- 
navia. The  evidence  of  language  is  irrefragable,  and  it  is  the  only 
evidence  worth  listening  to  with  regard  to  ante-historical  periods."  .  .  . 


INDIA,  ACCORDING  TO  PROFESSORS  MULLER  AND  BENFET.       311 

"While  most  of  the  members  of  the  Arian  family  followed  this  glorious 
path"  [i.e.  to  the  north-west],  "  the  southern  tribes  were  slowly- 
migrating  to  the  mountains  which  gird  the  north  of  India.  After 
crossing  the  narrow  passes  of  the  Hindu-kush  or  the  Himalaya,  they 
conquered  or  drove  before  them,  as  it  seems  without  much  effort,  the 
original  inhabitants  of  the  Trans-Himalayan  countries.  They  took  for 
their  guides  the  principal  rivers  of  Northern  India,  and  were  led  by 
them  to  new  homes  in  their  beautiful  and  fertUe  valleys."  (Last 
Results  of  Sanskrit  Researches,  in  Bunsen's  Out.  of  Phil,  of  Tin.  Hist., 
vol.  L,  pp.  129  and  131 ;  Anc.  Sansk.  Lit.,  pp.  12, 13, 15;  Chips,  i.  63, 65.) 

Again,  in  the  Last  Results  of  the  Turanian  Researches  (Bunsen,  as 
above,  p.  340),  the  same  able  writer  remarks:  "It  is  now  generally 
admitted  that  this  holy-land  of  the  Brahmans,  even  within  its  earliest 
and  narrowest  limits,  between  the  Sarasvatl  and  Drishadvati,  was  not 
the  birth-place  of  the  sons  of  Manu.  The  Arians  were  strangers  in  the 
land  of  the  Indus  and  the  Ganges,  but  no  one  can  now  determine  the 
exact  spot  whence  they  came,  and  where  they  had  been  previously 
settled.  Traditions  current  among  the  Brahmans  as  to  the  northern 
regions,  considered  the  seats  of  the  blessed,  may  be  construed  into  some- 
thing like  a  recollection  of  their  northern  immigration — holy  places 
along  the  rivers  of  northern  India,  where  even  in  later  times  Brahmans 
went  to  learn  the  purest  Sanskrit,  may  mark  the  stations  of  their  on- 
ward course — the  principal  capitals  of  their  ancient  kingdoms  may 
prove  the  slow  but  steady  progress  toward  the  mouths  of  the  principal 
rivers  of  India — but  with  the  sources  of  those  rivers,  the  homes  of  the 
Arian  strangers  vanish  from  our  sight,  even  after  we  have  reached  the 
highest  points  of  view  accessible  on  Indian  ground." 

Professor  Benfey  expresses  an  equally  confident  opinion  that  India 
was  not  the  original  country  of  the  Hindus.  His  reasons  are  as  follows. 
After  giving  some  account  of  the  various  tribes,  by  whom  southern  and 
central  India  are. occupied,  he  proceeds  :  "We  thus  find  the  whole  of 
the  Dekhan  covered  with  the  remains  of  a  nation  of  which  it  is  highly 
probable  that  the  several  parts  were  connected  by  affinity.  But  we 
know  with  certainty  that  the  Sanskrit-speaking  people  did  not  esta- 
blish themselves  in  the  Dekhan  till  a  later  period,  and  as  colonists,  who 
apparently  began  their  occupation  by  making  themselves  masters  of  the 
coasts.  .  .  .    Now  it  is  hardly  probable  that  those  bsirbarous  tribes 


312  PROFESSOR  SPIEGEL'S  ANSWER  TO  MR,  CURZON. 

could  have  pushed  themselres  forward  into  the  midst  of  the  Arian 
Indians  at  a  period  when  the  latter  had  attained  to  the  height  of  their 
social  and  poHtioal  development ;  and  yet  it  is  at  this  very  period  that 
we  already  find  mention  made  of  several  of  these  barbarous  races.  We 
are  therefore  compelled  to  recognize  the  latter  as  being  the  earlier 
inhabitants  of  the  Bekhan,  who  were  reduced  to  subjection  by  the 
arms  of  the  Sanskrit-speaking  race,,  and  either  incorporated  into  their 
community  as  a  servile  caste,  or  driven  back  into  the  recesses  of  the 
mountains." — Indien,''  p.  9.  In  p.  12,  the  same  author  proceeds: 
"From  the  foregoing  sections  it  appears  that  the  Sanskrit-speaking 
people,  who  called  themselves  Aryas  and  Vi^es,  can  be  shown  to  have 
immigrated  from  foreign  regions  into  their  new  abodes.  It  can  be 
positively  demonstrated  that  they  once  formed  one  nation,,  spoke  one 
speech,  and  possessed  the  same  civilization,  with  the  races  who  are 
aUied  to  them  by  language,  viz.,  the  Aryas  properly  so  called  (i.e.  the 
Iranians),  the  Greeks,  Latins,  etc.  It  is  scarcely  to  be  doubted  that 
the  theatre  of  this  early  union  was  one  of  the  countries  of  Asia ;  but 
the  time  is  so  far  antecedent  to  the  dawn  of  history,  and  so  many  com- 
motions, migrations,  and  so  forth,  must  have  swept  over  the  region 
which  they  formerly  occupied,  that  every  trace  which  the  Sanskrit- 
speaking  race  might  have  left  of  their  residence  there  has  been 
obliterated." 

The  following  remarks  of  Professor  Spiegel  (Introduction  to  Avesta, 
vol.  ii.,  pp.  cvi.  ff.)  will  serve  as  an  answer  to  Mr.  Curzon's  allegation 
that  the  language  and  mythology  of  the  Persians  are  derived  from 
those  of  India:  "Though  it  is  universally  admitted  that  a  primeval 
country  is  to  be  assumed,  where  the  Arians  lived  in  pre-historical 
times  as  one  people,  and  from  which  they  gradually  migrated;  and 
although  it  is  allowed  that  the  Indians  and  Iranians  must  have  dwelt 
together  for  a  length  of  time  in  this,  or  in  some  other  adjacent  country, 
even  after  the  separation  of  the  other  branches ;  stiLL  it  is  by  no  means 
clear  what  should  be  regarded  as  that  primeval  country.  Agreeably 
to  Mr.  Curzon's  assumption,  India  was  the  fatherland  of  the  Indo- 
Germanic  races.  Prom  that  country  the  individual  branches  of  that 
stock  migrated  westwards,  and  last  of  all  the  Iranians,  who  continued 
to  dwell  in  the  immediate  vicinity  of  their  original  country,  which 
SB  In  Ersch  and  Gruber's  Encyclopaedia  (German). 


WHERE  DID  THE  INDIAN'S  AND  IRANIANS  SEPARATE?        313 

henceforward  remained  in  the  sole  possession  of  a  single  race,  the  Indians. 
According  to  this  assumption,  the  relation  of  Iran  to  India  admits  of 
a  very  simple  adjustment;  India  is  the  cradle,  the  Indian  language 
(i.e.  the  Vedic  Sanskrit)  is  the.  mother-tongue  of  all  the  Indo-Germanio 
nations.  If,  accordingly,  an  important  affinity  is  discernible  both  in 
language  and  in  ideas  between  the  Indians  and  Iranians,  the  reason 
of  it  is  simply  this,  that  the  Iranians  emigrated  last  from  India,  and 
thus  carried  with  them  the  largest  share  of  Indian  characteristics. 
On  this  view  the  older  monuments  of  Iranian  literature  wonjd  stand 
in  the  same  relation  to  the  Vedic  literature  that  the  Pali  and  Prakrit 
stand  to  the  later  Sanskrit.  Lassen ''  had,  however,  previously  de- 
clared himself  against  this  assumption  that  India  was  the  cradle  of 
the  Indo-Germanic  races ;  and  his  arguments  have  not  been  invalidated 
by  Mr.  Curzon.  And  as  regards  the  relation  of  the  old  Iranian  dialect 
to  the  Sanskrit  of  the  Yedas,  I  boldly  assert  that  we  cannot  possibly 
suppose  the  former  to  stand  in  any  such  relation  of  dependence  to 
the  latter  as  the  Pali  or  the  Prakrit  stands  in  to  the  later  Sanskrit  ; 
and  no  one  who  impartially  examines  the  question  will  do  otherwise 
than  support  my  view. 

"We  may  therefore  at  once  set  aside  the  supposition  that  India 
was  the  cradle  of  the  Indo-Germanic  race.  We  prefer  to  assume 
with  Lassen  that  their  original  abode  is  to  be  sought  in  the  extreme 
east  of  the  Iranian  country,  in  the  tract  where  the  Oxus  and  Jaxartes 
take  their  rise. 

"But  the  second  question,  in  regard  to  language,  is  not  thus 
determined.  Por  it  might  still  be  imagined  possible  that  not  only 
the  Indians,  but  also  the  Iranians  along  with  them,  had  migrated  to 
the  countries  on  the  Indus;  and  that  the  Iranians,  perhaps  owing 
to  religious  differences,  had  retraced  their  steps  to  the  westward. 
The  great  affinity  between  the  Sanskrit  and  the  ancient  Bactrian 
languages,  and  the  resemblances  between  the  mythologies  of  the 
Yedas  on  the  one  hand,  and  the  Avesta  on  the  other,  would  then 
admit  of  the  same  explanation,  viz.,  that  the  Iranians  had  spent  the 
Vedic  period,  or  at  least  a  great  part  of  it,  in  conjunction  with  the 
Indians;   and  hence  the  close  affinity  between  their  ideas.     This  is 

89  Ind.  Ant.  i.  1st  ed.,  p.  512 ;  2nd  ed.,  p.  613.    See  above,  p.  308,  ff. 
VOL.  II.  21 


314  OPINIONS  OF  MULLER  AND  EAWLINSON. 

in  fact  the  view  of  a  scholar  who  is  very  familiar  with  this  branch  of 
study,  Professor  Max  Muller.'" 

so  "Last  Results  of  the  Persian  Eesearches,"  p.  118,  reprinted  in  "Chips,"  i.  86. 
"If  regarded  from  a  Vaidik  point  of  view,  .  .  .  the  gods  of  the  Zoroastrians  come 
out  once  more  as  mere  reflexiDns  of  the  primitive  and  authentic  gods  of  the  Yedas> 
It  can  now  he  proved,  even  hy  geographical  evidence,  that  the  Zoroastrians  had  been 
settled  in  India  before  they  immigrated  into  Persia.  I  say  the  Zoroastrians,  for  we 
have  no  evidence  to  bear  us  out  in  making  the  same  assertion  of  the  nations  of 
Media  and  Persia  In  general.  That  the  Zoroastrians  and  their  ancestors  started 
from  India  during  the  Vaidik  period  can  be  proved  as  distinctly  as  that  the  inhabit- 
ants of  Massilia  started  from  Greece.  The  geographical  traditions  in  the  First  Far- 
gard  of  the  Vendidad  do  not  interfere  with  this  opinion.  If  ancient  and  genuine, 
they  would  embody  a  remembrance  preserved  by  the  Zoroastrians,  but  forgotten  by 
the  Vaidik  poets— a  remembrance  of  times  previous  to  their  first  common  descent 
into  the  country  of  the  Seven  Rivers.  If  of  later  origin,  and  this  is  more  likely, 
they  may  represent  a  geographical  conception  of  the  Zoroastrians  after  they  had 
become  acquainted  vrith  a  larger  sphere  of  countries  and  nations,  subsequent  to  their 
emigration  from  the  land  of  the  Seven  Rivers."  [In  the  reprint  in  "  Chips,"  the 
following  note  is  added :  "  The  purely  mythological  character  of  this  geographical 
chapter  has  been  proved  by  M.  Michel  Brlal,  Journal  Asiatique,  1862."]  The  same 
opinion  is  repeated  by  Professor  MiiUer  in  his  Lectures  on  the  Science  of  Language, 
i.  236  (1st  edit.) :  "  The  Zoroastrians  were  a  colony  from  northern  India.  They 
had  been  together  for  a  time  with  the  people  whose  sacred  songs  have  been  preserved 
to  us  in  the  Veda.  A  schism  took  place  and  the  Zoroastrians  migrated  westward  to 
Arachosia  and  Persia.  .  .  .  They  gave  to  the  new  cities,  and  to  the  rivers 
along  which  they  settled,  the  names  of  cities  and  rivers  familiar  to  them,  and  re- 
minding them  of  the  localities  which  they  had  left.  Now  as  a  Persian  h.  points  to  a 
Sanskrit  s,  HarSyu  would  be  in  Sanskrit  Saroyu.  One  of  the  sacred  rivers  of  India, 
a  river  mentioned  in  the  Veda,  ....  has  the  name  of  Saroyu,  the  modem 
Sardju."  On  this  point  Mr.  Rawliuson  coincides  with  Professor  Miiller.  In  the 
Third  Essay  appended  to  the  first  volume  of  his  Herodotus,  p.  403,  he  thus  writes  : 
"  The  great  migration ,  of  the  Arian  race  westward  from  beyond  the  Indus,  simul- 
taneous probably  with  the  movement  of  a  kindred  people,  the  progenitors  of  the 
modern  Hindoos,  eastward  and  southward  to  the  Ganges,  and  the  Vindhya  mountain- 
range,  is  an  event  of  which  the  most  sceptical  criticism  need  not  doubt,  remote 
though  it  be,  and  obscurely  seen  through  the  long  vista  of  intervening  cfenturies." 
From  a  later  part  of  the  same  volume,  however.  Essay  xi.  p.  669,  it  clearly  appears 
that  Mr.  Rawlinson  does  not  regard  the  country  east  of  the  Indus  as  the  earliest 
abode  of  the  Arians,  and  that  this  migration  of  the  Arians  westward  was,  in  his 
opinion,  one  which  followed  their  original  migration  from  the  west  to  the  east : 
"  The  Eastern  or  Arian  migration,  whereby  an  Indo-European  race  became  settled 
upon  the  Indus,  is  involved  in  complete  obscurity.  We  have  indeed  nothing  but 
the  evidence  of  comparative  philology  on  which  distinctly  to  ground  the  belief,  that 
there  was  a  time  when  the  ancestors  of  the  Pelasgian,  Lydo-Phrygian,  Lycian, 
Thracian,  Sarmatian,  Teutonic,  and  Arian  races  dwelt  together,  the  common  pos- 
sessors of  a  single  language.  The  evidence  thus  furnished  is,  however,  conclusive, 
and  compels  us  to  derive  the  various  and  scattered  nations  above  enumerated  from  a 
single  ethnic  stock,  and  to  assign  them  at  some  time  or  other  a  single  locality.    In 


CONTBABT  OPINION  OP  PROFESSOR  SPIEGEI;.  315 

"  I  eannnt  ^ee  witll  this  viev?,.  as  I  am  quite  unable  to  discover 
that  there  is  any  historical  reminiscence  by  which  it  can  be  estab- 
lished.'*^  The  faets^  which  I  have  above  collected  regajfding  Zoroaster 
and  his  religion  certainly  do  not  point  to  the  conclusion  that  he  was 
a  Bactrian,  much  liess  that  th«  relrgibn  of  the  Bactrians  came  from 
India;  oti  the  contrary,  these  accounts  seem  to  lead  us  to  believe  that 
their  religioil  came  first  from^  Mediae  .  .  .  But  if  there  be  no 
historical  recoUectiony  what  else  is  there  to  favour  the  opinion  ia 
question?  Surely  it  camnot  be  the  similarity  of  structure  between 
the  languages  of  India  and  Persia  I  We  esteem  the  Sanskrit  s6 
highly,  not  because  it  was  the  original  speech  of  the  Indo-Germanic 
raee,  but  because  it  stands  the  nearest  to  that  original  language.  ITow 
it  cannot  surprise-  vts  that  another  language  of  the  same  family,  as  the 
ancient  Bactrian;  is,  should  have  remained  on  a  nearly  similar  level. 
It  is  not  in  the  least  at  variance  with  this  view  that  the  last-named 
language  is  far  younger  than  the  Vedic  Sanskrit,  for  it  is  well  known 
that  external  circumstances-  frequently  occasion  the  speedy  corruption 
of  one  language,  while  another  can  long  preserve  its  ancient  level. 
And  so  in  this  case,  both  languages  issued  in  a  nearly  similar  form 
from  one  common  parent  form  of  speech,  and  were  then  developed 
independently  of  each  other.      And  as  the  phenomena  of  the  two 

the  silence  of  authentic-  history,  Armenia  may  be  regarded  as  the  most  probahle 
centre  from  which  they  spread ;  and  the  Arian  race  may  be  supposed,  to  have 
wandered  eastward  about  the  same  time  that  the  two  other  kindred  streams  began  t»- 
flow,  the  one  northward  across  the  Caucasus,  the  other  westward  over  Asia  Minor 
and  into  Europe.  The  early  history  of  the  Arians  is  for  many  ages  an  absolute  blank, 
but  at  a  period  certainly  anterior  to  the  fifteenth  century  before  our  era  they  were 
settled  in  the  tract  watered,  by  the  upper  Indus,  and  becoming  straitened  for  room, 
began  to  send  out  colonies  eastward  and  westward.  On  the  one  side  their  move- 
ments may  be  traced  in  the  hymns  of  the  Eigveda,  where  they  are  seen  advancing 
step  by  step  along  the  rivers  of  the  Punjab,  engaged  in  constant  wars  with  the 
primitive  Turanian  inhabitants,  whom  they  gradually  drove  before  them  into  the 
various  mountain  ranges,  where  their  descendants  still  exist,  speaking  Turanian 
dialects.*  On  the  other,  their  progress  is  as  distinctly  marked  in  the  most  early 
portions  of  the  Zendavesta,  the  sacred  book  of  the  western  or  Medo-Persic  Arians. 
Leaving  their  Vedio  brethren  to  possess  themselves  of  the  broad  plains  of  Hindoostan, 
and  to  become  the  ancestors  of  the  modern  Hindoos,  the  Zendic  or  Medo-Persic 
Arians  crossed  the  high  chain  of  the  Hindoo-Koosh,  and  occupied  the  region  watered 
by  the  upper  streams  of  the  Oxus."  "  See,  however,  App.  Note  H- 

*  "  See  MiiUer's  Essay  on  the  Bengali  Language  in  the  Report  of  the  British  Asso- 
ciation for  1848,  p.  329,  and  Bunsen's  Philosophy  of  ITniv.  Hist.,  vol.  i.  pp;  a40-364." 


316        INDEPENDENT  DEVELOPMENT  OP  THE  PEESO-AEIANS. 

languages  do  not  necessitate  the  assumption  that  the  ancient  Bactrian 
language  has  passed  through  the  Vedio  Sanskrit,  so  neither  is  this 
view  forced  upon  us  by  the  contents  of  the  Avesta.  Eeference  has, 
indeed,  been  made  to  the  points  of  contact  between  the  legends,  and 
even  between  the  manners  and  customs  exhibited  in  the  Veda  and  the 
Avesta.  But  the  few  particulars  which  recur  in  the  Tedas  oannot  be 
set  against  the  far  larger  number  of  which  thwe  is  no  traca  there. 
Similar  common  legends  have  been  discovered  in  the  Greek  mythology, 
and  yet  it  has  never  been  imagined  by  any  one  that  the  ancient  Greeks 
must  have  believed  in  the  Yedas.  We  are,  therefore,  warranted  in 
supposing  that  in  the  old  Bactrian  language  and  literature  we  possess 
the  monuments  of  a  people,  who  certainly  lived  together  with  the 
Indians  longer  than  any  of  the  other  kindred  races,  and  have  there- 
fore a  certain  number  of  religious  and  other  conceptions  common  to 
them  with  the  former.  But  these  common  elements  are  so  insignificant 
when  compared  with  those  which  are  of  peculiarly  Iranian  growth, 
that  we  are  justified  in  regarding  the  language  and  literature  as  in- 
dependent Iranian  productions.  How,  and  by  what  causes  the  separa- 
tion of  the  Iranians  from  the  Indians  was  occasioned,  is  a  point  which, 
owing  to  our  want  of  information  on  that  early  period,  can  no  longer 
be  certainly  determined.  -.  .  ,  Among  the  grounds  of  it  I  have 
(in  the  first  volume,  p.  9)  referred  to  a  religious  alienation  between 
the  two  nations,  but  too  great  importance  should  not  be  assigned 
to  this  view.  Even  without  assuming  any  such  alienation,  it  is  con- 
ceivable that  gods  who  were  honoured  by  the  one  people,  might  be 
degraded  to  heU  by  the  other. '^  .  .  .  That  which  gives  probability 
to  the  idea  of  an  actual  alienation  between  the  Indians  and  Iranians 
on  religious  grounds,  is  the  number  of  such  opposing  conceptions. 

"We  must  accordingly  maintain  that  the  Indians  and  Iranians  have 
each  gone  through  their  own  proper  development  apart  from  the  others. 
Any  points  of  coincidence  between  the  two  must  thus  be  referred  to 
the  early  pre-Vedic  period,  not  to  the  era  of  the  special  development  of 
either  of  the  two  peoples.  None  of  the  common  features  which  I  have 
referred  to  in  vol.  i.  (see  above,  p.  293,  S.)  are  of  such  a  character 
as  to  make  it  at  all  necessary  for  us  to  suppose  the  country  bordering 
on  the  Indus  to  have  been  the  scene  of  their  origination.  An  origin 
'"  See  Appendix,  note  I. 


QITOTATIONS  FROM  'WEBEE  ANI>  PICTET.  317 

in  that  locality  migM,  with  most  probability,  be  ascribed  to  the  legend 
of  Vritrahan,  as  Indra  is  designated,  as  the  slayer  of  Vritra,  who 
withholds  the  clouds  and  the  necessary  rain.  The  word  recurs  again 
in  the  old-Bactrian  verethraya,  "^victorious  r'  (the  deity,  V.erethragna, 
I  regard  as  being  certainly  of  far  later  origin).  From  the  circumstance 
that  no  special  sense  is  assigned  to' the  word  in  the  ancient  Bactrian 
language,  I  do  not  conclude,  as  is  commonly  done,  that  in  the  Avesta 
it  has  lost  its  special  meaning;  but,  on  the  contrary,  I  assume  that 
the  Indian  limitation  of  the  word  to  Indra  did  not  take  place  till  after 
the  separation  of  the  two  peoples,  and  that  the  word  had  originally  a 
more  general  meaning."  (p.  ex.) 

The  following  is  the  opinion  of  Professor  "Weber  on  the  same  general 
question.  In  his  tract,  entitled  "Modern  Investigations  on  Ancient 
India,"  p.  10,  after  sketching  the  physical  and  intellectual  condition 
of  th&  early  Aryas,  as  deducible  from  the  words  common  to  all  the 
Indo-European  languages,  he  proceeds  thus  : — 

"  la  the  picture  just  now  drawn,  positive  signs  are,  after  all,  almost 
entirely  wanting,  by  which  we  could  recognize  the  country  in  which 
our  forefathers  dwelt  and  had  their  common  home.  That  it  was 
situated  in  Asia  is  an  old  historical  axiom :  the  want  of  all  animals 
specifically  Asiatic  in  our  enumeration  above  seems  to  tell  against  this, 
but  can  be  explained  simply  by  the  fact  of  these  animals  not  existing 
in  Europe,  which  occasioned  their  names  to  be  forgotten,  or  at  least 
caused  them  to  be  applied  to  other  similar  animals ;  it  seems,  however, 
on  the  whole,  that  the  climate  of  that  country  was  rather  temperate 
than  tropical,  most  probably  mild,  and  not  so  much  unlike  that  of 
Europe;  from  which  we  are  led  to  seek  for  it  in  the  highlands  of 
central  Asia,  which  latter  has  been  regarded  from  time  immemorial  as 
the  cradle  of  the  human  race." 

My  next  quotation  is  from  the  work  of  M.  Pictet,  "Les  Origines 
Indo-Europ6ennes,"  in  which  he  endeavours,  by  an  examination  of 
all  the  accessible  data,  geographical,  and  ethnographical,  as  well  as 
by  a  survey  and  comparison  of  all  the  terms  common  to  the  Arian 
languages,  which  refer  to  climate,  to  topography,  and  to  natural  history, 
to  determine  what  that  country  was,  which  the  common  ancestors  of 
the  Indo-European  nations  originally  inhabited.'' 

'3  M.  Piotet's  second  volume,  which  appeared  in  1863,  treats  (as  already  stated, 


818  M.  PICTET  ON  THE  FIEST  HOME  OF 

I  shall  not  attempt  to  follow  the  course  of  M..  Pictet's  multifarious 
investigations  and  reasonings,  or  to  pass  any  judgment  on  kb  particular 
deductions;  but  shall  content  myself  with  extracting  his  account  of 
the  general  results  to  which  he  has  been  conducted. 

"By  consulting  successively  national  appellations,  traditions,  geo- 
graphy, philology,  and  ethnography,  we  have  arrived  at  the  following 
conclusions  :-^The  Arian  people,  as  they  called  themselves  in  epposition 
to  the  barbarian,  must  have  occupied  a  region,  of  which  Bactria  may 
be  regarded  as  the  centre.  This  is  the  conclusion  to  which  we  are  at 
once  led  by  merely  comparing  the  directions  followed  by  the  swarms 
of  men  who  issued  from  this  centre,  and  which  aU.  radiated  from  it  as 
a  point  of  departure.  The  geographical  configuration  of  this  portion 
of  Asia  completely  confirms  this  first  induction ;  for  the  only  possible 
outlets  through  which  the  population  could  issue  occur  at  the  very 
points  where  the  principal  currents  of  emigration  have  actually  flowed, 
if  we  may  judge  by  the  ultimate  positions  of  the  Arian  people,  and 
the  scattered  traditions  which  they  have  preserved  of  their  origin."  .  . 

"We  may  presume  (1)  from  the  order  and  direction  of  the  migra- 
tions which  determined  the  ultimate  positions  of  the  Arian  races; 
(2)  from  the  traces  of  thdr  ancient  names,  left  by  the  several  nations 
along  the  routes  which  they  must  have  followed;  and  (3)  from  the 
more  special  aflSnities  which  connect  together  the  different  groups  of 
Arian  languages ;  that  the  primitive  Ariana,  at  the  period  of  its  greatest 
extension,  must  have  embraced  nearly  the  whole  of  the  region  situated 
between  the  Hindu-kush,  Belurtagh,  the  Oxus,  and  the  Caspian  Sea ; 
and,  perhaps,  extended  a  good  way  into  Sogdiana,  towards  the  sources 
of  the  Oxus  and  the  Jaxartes.  I  do  not  mean  that  Ariana  then  formed 
one  stron^y  constituted  state.  It  is  much  more  probable  that  it  was 
at  that  time  partitioned  among  distinct  tribes,  united  solely  by  the 
general  bond  of  race,  by  similarity  of  manners  and  language,  by  a 
common  stock  of  beliefs  and  traditions,  and  by  a  sentiment  of  natural 
brotherhood.  This  is  to  be  inferred,  both  from  the  topographical  cha- 
racter of  the  country  and  from  the  suecessive  emigrations  which  must 
have  followed  each  other  at  considerable  intervals.    I  have  attempted 

p.  294,  note,)  of  the  state  of  material  oiidlizatioii,  the  social  condition,  the  intel- 
lectual, moral,  and  religious  life  of  this  primitive  people,  before  it  was  broken  up 
into  different  nations. 


THE  AEIANS,  AND  THEIE  MIGEATIONS.  319 

in  chapter  iii.  to  fix,  by  approximation,  the  relative  positions  of  the 
different  branches  of  the  race  before  their  dispersion." 

[I  introduce  here,  from  p.  51  of  M.  Pictet's  ■work,  the  substance  of 
the  passage  referred  to,  so  far  as  it  relates  to  the  Iranians,  Indians, 
Greeks,  and  Latins: — 

"Assuming  Bactria  to  have  been  the  centre  of  the  region  peopled  by 
the  primitive  Aryas,  the  Iranians  must  have  possessed  its  north-east 
comer,  bordering  on  Sogdiana,  towards  Belurtagh,  and  have  at  first 
spread  towards  the  east,  as  far  as  the  high  mountain  valleys,  from 
which  they  afterwards  descended  to  colonize  Iran.  Alongside  of  them, 
to  the  south-east,  probably  in  the  fertile  regions  of  Badakhshan,  dwelt 
the  Indo-Arians,  occupying  the  slopes  of  the  Hindu-kush,  'which  they 
had  afterwards  to  cross,  or  to  round,  in  order  to  arrive  in  Cabul,  and 
penetrate  thence  into  northern  India.  To  the  south-west,  towards  the 
sources  of  the  Artamis  and  the  Bactrus,  we  should  place  the  Pelasgo- 
Arians  (the  Grreeks  and  Latins),  who  mtist  have  advanced  thence  in  the 
direction  of  Herat,  and  continued  their  migration  by  Xhorasan  and 
Mazenderan  to  Asia  Minor  and  the  Hellespont."] 

"  Though  nothing  more  than  a  hypothesis,  the  preceding  distribution 
appears  to  account  better  than  any  other  for  the  entire  facts  of  the  case. 
But  it  can  be  shown,  in  a  more  precise  manner,  that  the  Aryas  must 
have  been  originally  divided  into  two  groups,  the  one  eastern  and  the 
other  western,  from  which,  on  the  one  side,  the  Aryas  of  Persia  and 
India  issued,  and  on  the  other  the  European  nations.  The  principal 
arguments  in  support  of  this  statement  cannot,  however,  be  unfolded 

till  I  come  to  the  sequel  of  my  work In  regard  to  the  period 

when  the  Arian  emigrations  took  place,  I  may  say,  by  anticipation, 
that,  in  aU  probability,  the  earliest  of  them  cannot  be  placed  at  less 
than  three  thousand  years  before  the  Christian  era,  and  that,  perhaps, 
they  go  back  to  a  still  remoter  period." — (Pictet,  Les  Aryas  Primitifs, 
pp.  536,  ff.) 

In  the  second  volume  of  his  work,  p.  734,  M.  Piotet  adheres  to  the 
same  conclusion  as  to  time.  He  says  there ;  "  As  the  result  of  all  that 
precedes,  I  believe  I  do  not  exaggerate  in  placing  about  three  thousand 
years  before  our  era  the  epoch  of  the  first  movements  towards  dispersion  of 
the  ancient  Aryas,  whose  different  migrations  must  have  taken  centuries 


320  SUMMAKT  OP  ARGTJMENTS  IN  FAVOUR  OF  THE 

to  accomplisli  down  to  the  period  of  the  definitive  establishment  of  their 
descendants  in  the  immense  tracts  which  they  occupied." 

I  shall  now  attempt  briefly  to  sum  up  the  arguments  in  favour  of  the 
conclusion,  that  the  Indo-Arians  were  not  autochthonous,  but  im- 
migrated into  Hindustan  from  Central  Asia. 

Mr.  Curzon  entertains,  as  we  have  seen,  a  different  opinion,  which 
he  grounds  on  the  assumption  that  the  languages,  as  well  as  the  mytho- 
logies; both  of  the  Persians,  and  also  of  the  Greeks  and  Latins,  are  derived 
from  India.  "We  have  already  seen  (p.  259,  ff.)  how  untenable  the 
notion  is  that  the  Greek  and  Latin  languages  could  have  been  derived 
from  Sanskrit ;  and  the  points  of  coincidence  between  the  Greek,  the 
Italian,  and  the  Indian  mythologies  are  too  few  and  too  remote  to 
justify  the  idea  of  their  derivation  from  the  Indo-Arians,  at  any  period 
nearly  so  recent  as  the  hypothesis  would  require.  I  am  not  prepared 
to  pronounce  it  altogether  inconceivable  that  the  Greek  and  Latin 
races  could  have  emigrated  from  India  within  any  period  short  of 
1500  years  B.C.,  without  distinct  traces  of  this  migration  being  dis- 
coverable in  their  own  literature,  or  in  that  of  other  nations ;  for,  as 
we  have  already  seen  (p.  307),  the  traces  of  such  movements  may  soon 
disappear  from  the  traditions  of  an  illiterate  people.  But  if  the  languages 
and  religions  of  Greece  and  Italy  be  not  derived  from  those  of  India, 
there  is  no  ground  for  this  hypothesis.  And  any  emigration  from 
India  at  an  earlier  period  than  that  indicated  appears  to  be  improbable. 
Fifteen  hundred  years  before  the  Christian  era,  India,  if  (as  it  no  doubt 
was)  already  occupied  by  the  Indo-Arians,  must,  at  aU  events,  have 
been  very  thinly  peopled.  The  Aryas  had  not,  at  that  period,  extended 
themselves  beyond  the  north-west  quarter  of  India.'*  Large  tracts 
both  to  the  east  and  west  of  the  Ganges,  and  to  the  north  of  the 
Vindhya  range,  must  then  have  been  still  uncultivated.  "While  such 
facilities  remained  for  the  occupation  of  new  territory  for  the  purposes 
of  agriculture  or  pasturage,  in  their  own  immediate  neighbourhood,  it 
does  not  appear  what  sufficient  motive  could  have  existed  to  impel  any 
branch  of  the  small  Arian  population  to  desert  the  fertile  plains  and 
the  warm  temperature  of  India  (to  which,  by  the  hypothesis,  they 
must  have  been  long  accustomed)  for  the  rugged  mountains  and  tlie 

"*  This  will  be  made  evident  by  the  details  which  I  shall  shortly  adduce  relative 
to  their  diffiision  in  Hindustan. 


CENTEAL-ASIAN  ORIGIN  OF  THE  INDO-AEIAlirS.  321 

barren  and  less  genial  regions  which  lay  to  the  north-west  and  west  of 
the  Indus. 

As  regards  the  derivation  of  the  Iranian  language  and  mythology 
from  the  Indian  (which  may  be  asserted  with  more  show  of  probability 
than  in  the  case  of  the  Greeks  and  Latins),  I  may  place  the  authority 
and  the  arguments,  just  quoted,  of  Professor  Spiegel  in  opposition  to 
those  of  Mr.  Curzon. 

I  have  so  far  examined  Mr.  Curzon' s  theory  generally,  and  without 
reference  to  the  particular  period  when  he  supposes  the  movement  of  the 
Arians  to  the  westward  to  have  taken  place.  But  when  we  advert  to 
the  late  era  at  which  he  supposes  it  to  have  occurred,  as  stated  above, 
p.  303,  f.,  in  his  own  words,  his  theory  acquires  a  still  higher  degree 
of  improbability.  If  the  Arians,  or  rather  (in  that  case)  the  already 
Brahmanized  Indians,  had  invaded  and  conquered  the  countries  lying  to 
the  west  of  the  Indus  at  a  period  subsequent  to  their  occupation  of  the 
Dekhan  and  to  the  full  development  of  their  civilization  and  their  peculiar 
institutions,  it  is  scarcely  conceivable  that  no  trace  of  this  sweeping 
invasion  should  have  remained,  either  in  their  own  literature  or  in 
that  of  any  of  the  western  nations,  and  that  no  specifically  Brahmanical 
influences  should  have  been  discoverable  in  the  religious  or  political 
systems  of  Persia,  Greece,  Eome,  or  Germany ;  for  the  period  at  which 
such  a  supposed  extension  of  the  Brahmanical  Indians  took  place  could 
not  have  been  an  "ante-Hellenic"  era  (p.  187);  nor,  consequently,  is 
it  imaginable  that  aU  record  of  it  should  have  disappeared  in  a  pre- 
sumed "age  of  darkness"  (p.  186).  The  "ante-Hellenic"  period 
terminated  nearly  1000  years  B.C.,  and  the  Brahmanical  institutions 
could  not  have  been  fully  developed  very  long  before  that  time. 

Mr.  Elphinstone,  as  we  have  seen,  does  not  decide  in  favour  of  either 
theory,  but  leaves  it  in  doubt  whether  the  Hindus  were  an  autoch- 
thonous or  an  immigrant  nation.  As  a  justification  of  his  doubt,  he 
refers  to  the  circumstance  that  all  other  known  migrations  of  ancient 
date  have  proceeded  from  east  to  west,  and  have  not  radiated  from  a 
common  centre.  But  this  reasoning  cannot  claim  to  offer  more  than  a 
limited  presumption,  and  cannot  be  set  against  the  stronger  probabilities 
which,  in  this  case,  are  suggested  by  the  subsequent  history  of  the  dif- 
ferent Arian  nations  in  favour  of  a  radiation  from  one  common  centre. 

The  mutual  affinities  of  the  Arian  tongues  imply,  as  we  have  seen. 


322  NO  DISTINCT  REFERENCE  IN  THE  VEDA  TO 

the  anterior  existence  of  one  parent  language,  from  wliich  they  all 
Issued,  and  conduct  us  by  probable  inference  to  the  conclusion  that  the 
several  nations  who  spoke  those  separate  dialects  were  all  descended, 
though  not,  perhaps,  without  intermixture  with  other  races,  from  the 
same  common  ancestors,  who  employed  the  parent-language  in  ques- 
tion, and  formed  one  Arian  nation  inhabiting  the  same  country.  As 
the  question  where  this  country  was  situated  cannot  be  decided  by 
history,  we  are  thrown  back  upon  speculation ;  and  we  are  therefore  led 
to  inquire  what  that  region  was  which  by  its  position  was  most  likely 
to  have  formed  the  point  of  departure  from  which  nations  situated  in 
the  opposite  quarters  ultimately  occupied  by  the  Indians,  the  Iranians, 
the  Greeks,  the  Bomans,  the  Grermans,  and  the  Slavonians,  must  have 
issued  in  order  to  reach  their  several  abodes  by  the  most  easy  and 
natural  routes.  The  point  of  departure  which  best  satisfies  this  con- 
dition is,  in  the  opinion  of  the  eminent  writers  whom  I  have  cited, 
some  region  of  Central  Asia,  lying  to  the  north-west  of  India.  We 
may,  therefore,  place  the  cradle  of  the  Arians  in  or  near  Bactria. 


Sect.  VIII. — On  the  National  Traditions  of  the  Indians  regwriAng  their 
own  Original  Country. 

I  shall  now  inquire  whether  there  are  any  data  to  be  found  among 
the  traditions  of  the  Indians  or  the  Persians,  from,  which  we  can  derive 
any  confirmation  of  the  conclusion  to  which  we  have  been  led  by  other 
considerations.  I  must,  however,  hegin  with  a  candid  admission  that, 
so  far  as  I  inow,  none  of  the  Sanskrit  books,  not  even  the  most  ancient, 
contain  any  distinct  reference  or  allusion  to  the  foreign  origin  of  the 
Indians.  This  does  not,  perhaps,  afford  any  just  ground  of  surprise. 
The  Vedic  hymns  themselves  do  not  carry  us  back  to  the  first  ages  of 
the  nation,  but  contain  allusions  to  personages  and  events  of  a  still 
earlier  date.  The  past  history  of  their  race  is  very  liable  to  be  for- 
gotten by  an  unlettered  people,  as  is  remarked  by  Sohlegel,  in  the 
passage  quoted  above,  p.  307 ;  and  any  traditions  which  may  at  one 
time  have  existed  of  the  early  Arian  migrations  might  very  easily 
have  been  overgrownand  effaced  by  the  luxuriant  harvest  of  legendary 
inventions  for  which  India  has  been  remarkable  from  the  earliest  ages. 
This  process  of  obscuration  is  distinctly  traceable  in  other  parts,  of 


THE  IMMIGfEATION  OF  THE  INDIANS  FROM  'WITHOUT.        323 

Indian  history,  and  it  has  been  frequently  remarked  how  greatly  the 
myths  and  even  the  allusions  of  the  Vedas  have  been  amplified  and 
distorted  by  more  recent  mythologists.  I  shall,  however,  proceed  to 
quote  Such  passages  as  may  appear  in  any  way  to  imply  the  tradition 
of  a  foreign  origia. 

First.  In  the  Rigveda,'^  an  expression  occurs  from  which  we  might 
infer  that  the  Indians  still  retained  some  recoUectioa  of  their  having 
at  one  time  occupied  a  colder  country.  Eeference  is  made  to  winter 
in  the  following  texts: — ^E.V.  i.  64,  14:  Toham  puihyema  tanayafk 
iatarh  himdh  \  "May  we  cherish  sons  and  descendants  a  hundred 
winters! " — v.  54,  15  :  Idam  su  me  Maruto  haryata  vaeho  y&sya  tarema 
tarasa  iatafh  himdh  |  "  Be  pleased,  0  Maruts,  with  this  hymn  of  mine, 
by  the  force  of  which  may  we  pass  through  a  hundred  winters !  " — 
vi.  4,  8 :  Madema  iatahimdh  suvirah  |  "  May  we  rejoice,  living  a 
hundred  winters,  with  vigorous  offspring  ! "  The  same  words  are  re- 
peated in  vi.  10,  7;  vi.  12,  6;  vi.  13,  6;  vi.  17,  15.  In  vi.  48,  8,  it 
is  said  to  Agni :  Pahi  amhasah  8am^ddhdrd&  iatafh.  himdh  stotrihhyo  ye 
cha  dadati  \  "Preserve  him  who  kindles  thee  from  calamity  for  a 
hundred  winters,  and  [preserve  also]  those  who  give  (gifts)  to  thy 
worshippers."  And  in  ii.  1,  11,  we  find  the  words:  Tvam  lid  iata- 
hima'si  dahshase  \  "  Thou  (Agni)  art  IlS,  bestowing  a  hundred  winters 
on  the  wise  man."  And  in  ix.  74,  8,  we  find  the  words,  Eahshivate 
iatahimdya,  "  To  Kakshivat,  who  has  lived  a  hundred  winters."  The 
phrase,  Faiyema  karadah  katam  jivema  kwradah  katam,  "  May  we  see — 
may  we  live — a  hundred  autumns,"  also  occurs  in  B.V.  vii.  66,  16. 
See  also  R.V.  x.  IS,  4.  This  may,  perhaps,  be  a  more  recent  form  of 
the  expression,  dating  from  a  period  when  the  recollection  of  the  colder 
regions  from  which  they  had  migrated  was  becoming  forgotten  by  the 
Aryas.°° 

'*  "Wilson,  Introd.  to  fiigveda,  vol.  i.  p.  ilH. 

8'  I  omit  here  the  quotation  from  the  S'ata^atha  Brahmana,  i.  8,  1,  1,  f.  con- 
taiaing  the  oldest  form  of  the  legend  of  the  Deluge  extant  in  the  Indian  records,  as 
weU  as  the  version  of  the  same  story  given  in  the  Mahabharata,  Vanaparva,  vv. 
12746,  ff.,  together  with  all  the  passages  from  the  hymns  relating  to  the  descent  of 
the  Ariau  Indians  from  Manu,  which  were  given  in  tiie  first  edition  of  this  volume, 
pp.  324-331,  because  aU  these  texts,  and  many  others  besides,  have  now  been  quoted 
in  the  second  edition  of  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  161-238 ;  and  because, 
further,  it  is  doubtful  whether  the  correct  reading  in  the  passage  of  the  S'atapatha 
Brahmana  i.  8,  1,  5,  is  atidudrava  "he  passed  over,"  or  ad/iidtidrava,  wMch  would 


324  MENTION  OP  THE  UTTAEA  KTJETJS  IN  THE 

Second.  In  the  allusions  made  to  the  XJttara  (or  northern)  Kurus  in 
the  Indian  books,  there  may  be  some  reminiscence  of  an  early  con- 
nexion with  the  countries  to  the  north  of  the  Himalaya.  The  follow- 
ing passage  from  the  Aitareya-brahmana,  vui.  14  (quoted  by  Weber, 
Indisohe  Studien,  i.  218),  contains  the  oldest  reference  to  this  people 
of  which  I  am  aware : — Tasmad  etasydm  udiohya0i  diU  ye  Tee  cha  parena 
Stmavantam  janapaddh  "  Uttmakwramdh  Uttaramadrdh"  iti  vmrdjydya 
te  'IMsMchyante  |  "viral"  ity  etan  abhisMhtdn  dchaJcshate  \  "Wherefore 
in  this  northern  region,  all  the  people  who  dwell  beyond  the  Himavat, 
[called]  the  Uttara  Kurus  and  the  Uttara  Madras,  are  consecrated  to 
glorious  rule  (vairdjya).     Those  who  are  consecrated  are  called  virdl." 

The  following  quotation  from  another  part  of  the  Aitareya-brahmana, 
viii.  23,  wUl,  however,  show  that  even  at  the  early  period  when  that 
work  was  composed,  the  country  of  the  Uttara  Kurus  had  come  to  be 
regarded  as  belonging  to  the  domain  of  mythology :  Mam  ha  vai  Aindram 
mahdlhisliekam  VdsisTtthah  Sdtyakavyo  'tyardtaye  Jdnantapaye  provacha\ 
tasmad  u  Atya/rdti/r  Janantapir  mrdjd  san  vidyayd  samantarh  sarvatah 
prithivlm Jayan  pariydya  \  sa  ha  uvdcha  Vdsishthah  SdtyahavyaA  "eyai- 
thir  vai  samantam  sa/rvatah  prithivlm  \  mahan  md  gamaya  "  iti  \  8a  ha 
uvdcha  Atya/rdti/r  Jdnantapir  "yadd  hrdhmana  Uttarakurun  jayeyam 
atha  tvam  u  ha  eva  prithivyai  rdjd  sydh  sendpatir  eva  te  'ham  syam  " 
iti  I  Sa  ha  uvdcha  Vdsishthah  Sdtyahavyah  "  devakshetram  vai  tad  na  vai 
tad  martyo  jetum  arhati  \  adruTcsho  vai  me  d  Hah  idam  dade  "  iti  \  tato 
Jia  Atyardtim  Jdnantapim  dttwolryam  nihiuhram  amitratapano  S'ush- 
minah  S'aivyo  jaghdna  \  tasmad  evamvidushe  hrdhmandya  evamchairushe 
na  hhatriyo  druhyed  na  id  rdshtrdd  avapadyeyad  na  id  vdmaprdno  jahat\ 
"Satyahavya  of  the  race  of  Vasishtha  declared  this  great  inauguration, 
similar  to  Indra's,  to  Atyarati,  son  of  Janantapa  ;  and  in  consequence 
Atyarati,  who  was  not  a  king,  by  [that]  knowledge  traversed  the 
whole  earth  round,  reducing  it  to  subjection.  Satyahavya  said  to  him, 
'  Thou  hast  subdued  the  whole  earth  round :  exalt  me  now  to  great- 
ness.' Atyarati  replied,  'When,  0  Brahman,  I  conquer  the  Uttara 
Kurus,  then  thou  shalt  be  king  of  the  earth,  and  I  will  be  only  thy 
general.'     Satyahavya  rejoined,  '  That  is  the  land  of  the  gods ;  no 

not  so  distinctly  convey  the  same  sense ;  and  woidd  leave  it  doubtful  whether  the 
writer  intended  to  represent  Manu  as  having  crossed  the  Himalaya  from  the  north- 
ward. 


AITAEEYA  BEAHMANA,  RS.MATANA,  AND  MAHABHAEATA.       325 

mortal  may  conquer  it :  thou  hast  acted  injuriously  towards  me ;  I  take 
back,  therefore,  that  [which  I  have  bestowed].'  In  consequence  of 
this  the  foe-destroying  S'ushmina,  the  son  of  S'ivi,  slew  Atyarati,  son 
of  Tanantapa,  who  had  [thus]  become  bereft  of  his  Tigour,  and 
destitute  of  strength.  "Wherefore  let  no  Kshatriya  treat  injuriously  a 
Brahman  who  possesses  this  knowledge  and  has  performed  this  rite, 
lest  he  lose  his  kingdom  and  his  Ufe."  (See  Colebrooke's  Misc.  Ess., 
i.  43.) 

The  northern  Kurus  are  also  mentioned  in  the  Eamayana."  In  the 
^'description  of  the  northern  region,"  iv.  44,  82,  S.  we  have  the  following 
account:  Tan gaohhata  Jmri-ireshthah  vUalan  Uttmran  Kwun\  danaiilan 
mahiSMagan  nitgatushtdn  gatafvardn  |  na  tatra  iitam  ushnam  va  na  jara 
ndmayas  tathd  |  na  hJeo  na  hhayatn  vapi  na  varsham  na'pi  hhasharah  \ 
"  Go,  most  excellent  of  monkeys,  to  those  illustrious  TJttara  Kurus, 
who  are  liberal,  prosperous,  perpetually  happy,  and  undecaying.  In 
their  country  there  is  neither  cold  nor  heat,  nor  decrepitude,  nor  disease, 
nor  grief,  nor  fear,  nor  rain,  nor  sun."  A  great  deal  more  follows  in 
the  same  hyperbolical  strain,  and  then  it  is  added  (verse  117) :  Kuruihs 
tan  samatikramya  uttare  payasain,  nidhih  |  tatra  somagirir  nana  hiran- 
maya-samo  mahan  \  and  in  verses  121,  122 :  na  kathanehana  gantmyam 
kwrunam  uttarena  cfui  \  anyeshdm  api  hhutdnam  na  tatra  kramate  gatih  \ 
sa  hi  somagirir  ndma  devdndm  api  durgamah  |  "Beyond  the  Eurus  to 
the  north  lies  the  ocean ;  and  there  the  vast  Soma-mountain  is  situated, 
resembling  a  mass  of  gold."  "  Tou  must  not  travel  to  the  north  of 
the  Kurus.  That  region  is  untrodden  by  the  steps  of  other  living 
beings  also.  For  that  Soma-mountain  is  difficult  of  access  even  to  the 
gods  themselves."'* 

In  the  same  way,  when  Aijuna,  in  the  course  of  his  conquests,  as 
described  in  the  Digvijaya  Parva  of  the  Mahabharata,  comes  to  the 

"  See  also  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  second  edition,  p.  493,  f. 

s'  These  quotations  are  from  Gorresio's  edition.  The  Bombay  edition,  sec.  43  of 
the  same  book,  vv.  38,  and  57,  f.,  is  less  diffuse.  It  says,  v.  38  :  Uttarah  Kurmas 
tatra  Icritapmyct-pratisrm/Sh  \  "  There  are  situated  (he  Uttara  Kurus,  the  abodes 
of  those  who  have  performed  works  of  merit :"  and  in  v.  57 :  Na  hathanchana  gan- 
tavyam  Ku/rumm  uttarena  vah  \  amyeaKam,  api  bhutanam  ncmukramati  vai  gatih  \ 
68  I  sa  hi  somagirir  tiama  devanam  api  durgamah.  "  Tou  must  not  on  any  account 
go  to  the  northward  of  the  Kurus :  nor  may  any  other  creatures  proceed  farther. 
For  that  Soma-mountain  is  difficult  of  access  even  to  the  gods." 


326  QUOTATIONS  FROM  LASSEN'S  WEITINGS 

country  of  the  TJttara  Kurus  in  Harivarsha,  he  is  thus  addressed  by 
the  guards  at  the  gate  of  the  city  (Sabha  Parva,  verses  104,5,  ff.): 
Partha  nedam  tvayd  iahyam  pwaih,  jetum  kathanohana  (  .  .  .  idam 
purafh,  yah  prcwiied  dhrmam  na  sa  bhaved  na/ralj,  \  .  .  .  na  ehdtra 
kmcMj  Jetmpam  Arjunatra  pradrUyate  |  Uttarah  Kwa/oo  hy  ete  ndtra 
yuddham  pravartaie  \  pravishto  'pi  hi  Ka/mteya  neha  drakshyasi  kin- 
chrnia  I  na  M  marmsha-dehena  iakywm  atrcMmlkskitittn  \  "  This  city,  0 
king,  cannot  in  any  way  be  subdued  by  thee.  ...  He  who  enters 
this  city  must  be  more  than  mortal.  ..  .  .  There  i»  nothiog  to  be 
beheld  here,  0  Aijuna,  which  thou  may  est  conquer.  Here  are  the 
trttara  Kurus,  whom  no  one  attempts  to  combat.  And  even  if  thou 
shouldst  enter,  thou  conldst  behold  nothing;  for  here  no  one  with  a 
mortal  body  can  see." 

On  this  passage  (part  of  which  is  a  mere  repetition  of  the  Ait.  Brah. 
viii.  23)  Professor  Lassen  remarks  (in  the  Zeitschrift  fikr  die  Eunde 
des  Morgenlandes,  ii.  62):  "At  the  furthest  accessible  extrennty  of 
the  earth  appears  Harivarsha,  with  the  northern  Kurus.  The  region 
of  Hari  or  Vishnu  belongs  to  the  system  of  mythical  geography ;  but 
the  case  is  different  with  4he  TJttara  Eurus.  Here  there  is  a  real 
basis  of  geographical  fact ;  of  which  fable  has  only  taken  advantage, 
without  creating  it.  The  Uttara  Kurus  were  formerly  quite  inde^ 
pendent  of  the  mythical  system  of  'dvipas,'  though  they  were  included 
in  it  at  an  early  date."  Again  the  same  writer  says  at  p.  65  :  "  That 
the  conception  of  the  TJttara  Kurus  is  based  upon  an  actual  country, 
and  not  on  mere  invention,  is  proved  (1)  by  the  way  in  which  they 
are  mentioned  in  the  Vedas  "  [the  Aitareya-brahmana,  as  just  quoted 
p.  324];  "(2)  by  the  existence  of  TJttara  Kuru  in  historical  times 
as  a  real  country;  and  (3)  by  the  way  in  which  the  legend  makes 
mention  of  that  region  as  the  home  of  primitive  customs.  To  begin 
with  the  last  point,  the  Mahabharata  speaks  as  follows  of  the 
freer  mode  of  life  which  women  led  in  the  early  world.  Book  I., 
verses  4719-22 :  Anavritah  kila  pura  striyah  dsan  vardnane  \  kdma- 
ehdra-vihdrinyah  svatantrdi  chdruhdsini  \  tdsdfn  vyuchoharantdndndm 
kaumardt  suhkaye  patin  \  nddharmo  'hhud  vardrohe  sa  hi  dhmrmah  purd 
'hhavat  \  torn  chaiva  dharmam  pcmranafh  tiryagyoni-gatdh  prdjdh  \ 
adydpy  aniwidhiyante  kdma-krodha-vivarjitdh  \  pramdna-drishto  dharmo 
'yam  pujyaie  cha  maharshibhih  |  Uitareshu  oha  ramlhoru  Kurushv  adydpi 


ON  THE  UTTARA  KUETJS,  32Y 

puj'yate  [  '  "Women  were  formerly  unconfLiied,  and  roved  about  at  their 
pleasure,  independent.  Though  in  their  youthful  innocenee,  they  went 
astray  from  their  husbands,  they  were  guilty  of  no  offence ;  for  such 
was  the  rule  in  early  times.  This  anraent  custom  is  eren  now  the 
law  for  creatures  born  as  brutes,  which  are  free  from  lust  and  anger. 
This  custom  is  supported  by  authority,  and  is  observed  by  great  jishis, 
and  it  is  stiU  practised  among  the  northern  Kurus,'  ™ 

"  The  idea  which  is  here  conveyed  is  that  of  the  continuance  in  one 
part  of  the  world  of  that  original  blessednesS'  which  prevailed  in  the 
golden  age-.  To  a,Wmd  a  conception  trf  the  happy  condition  of  the 
southern  Eurus  it  is  said  in  another  place "  (Mahabh.,  i.  4346  : 
Viiaraih  E/uruhM^  sdrdha0i  dakahinah  Kwravas  tathd  |  vispardhamdndA 
vy.aharams  tathd  devarsM-chdratiaih  \)  '" The  southern  Kurus  vied  in 
happiness  with  the  northern  Kurus,  and  with  the  divine  rishis  and 
bards.' " 

Professor  Lassen  goes  on  to  say:  "Ptolemy  (vi.  16)*'"  is  also  ac- 
quainted with  TJttara  Kuru.  He  speaks  of  a  mountain,  a  people,  and 
a  city  called  Ottorokorra.  Most  of  the  other  ancient  authors  who 
elsewhere  mention  this  name  have  it  from  him.  It  is  a  part  of  the 
country  which  he  calls -Serica;  according  to  him  the  city  lies  twelve 
degrees  west  from  the  metropolis  of  Sera,  and  the  mountain  extends 
from  thence  far  to  the  eastward.  As  Ptolemy  has  misplaced  the 
whole  of  eastern  Asia  beyond  the  Ganges,  the  relative  position  which 
he  assigns  wUl  guide  us  better  than  the  absolute  one,  which  removes 
Ottorokorra  so  far  to  the  east  that  a  correction  is  inevitable. 

"According  to  my  opinion  the  Ottorokorra  of  Ptolemy  must  be 
sought  for  to  the  east  of  Kashghar." 

Lassen  also  thinks  that  Megasthenes  had  the  TJttara  Kurus  in  view 

s'  [I  am  myself  responsible  for  the  translation  of  these  lines.  The  practice  of 
promiscuous  intercourse  was,  according  to  the  legend,  abolished  by  S'vetaketu,  son 
of  the  rishi  Uddalaka,  who  was  incensed  at  seeing  his  mother  led  away  by  a  strange 
Brahman.  His  father  told  him  there  was  no  reason  to  be  angry,  as :  anmritah  hi 
tarvesham  varnanam  cmganSh  hhwoi  \  yatha  gavah  sthitas  tata  sve  sve  varne  tatha 
prajah  I  "  The  wtimen  of  all  castes  on  eairth  are  unoonfined :  just  as  cattle  are 
situated,  so  are  human  beings,  too,  within  their  respective  castes."  S'vetaketu,  how- 
ever, could  not  endure  this  custom,  and  established  the  rule  that  henceforward  wives 
should  remain  faithful  to  their  husbands,  and  husbands  to  their  wives.  Mahabharata, 
i.  verses  4724-33.— J.M.] 

100  The  original  passage  will  be  given  in  appendix,  note  J. 


328       MAHABH,,  A.V.,  AND  S'ANKHATANA  BEAHMANA  QUOTED. 

when  he  referred  to  the  Hyperboreans,  who  were  fabled  by  Indian 
writers  to  live  a  thousand  years.""  In  his  Indian  Antiquities  (Ind. 
Alterthumskunde,  2nd  ed.,  i.  612,  f.  and  note)  the  same  writer  con- 
cludes that  the  descriptions  given  in  such  passages  as  those  above  cited 
relative  to  the  Uttara  Kurus  are  to  be  taken  as  pictures  of  an  ideal 
paradise,  and  not  as  founded  on  any  recoUeotions  of  the  northern  origin 
of  the  Kurus.  Still  it  is  probable,  he  thinks,  that  some  such  remi- 
niscences originally  existed,  and  still  survived  in  the  Vedic  era,  though 
there  is  no  trace  of  their  existence  in  later  times. 

The  sanctity  of  Kashmir  is  thus  celebrated  in  the  Vana  Parva  of  the 
Mahabharata,  verses  10,545-46 :  Kdimira-mandalaffi  chaitat  sarva- 
punyam  a/riniama  \  maJiarshilhii.  chadhyushitam  paiyedam  hhratribMh 
sdka  I  yatrauttaranam  sarvesMm  rishlnam  Nahu&hasya  cha  \  Agnek 
chcdv&tra  safhvadah  Kasyapasya  eha  Bhdrata\  "And  this  is  the 
region  of  Ka^mira,  all-holy,  and  inhabited  by  great  rishis :  behold  it, 
along  with  thy  brothers.  It  was  here  that  the  conversation  of  all  the 
northern  rishis  with  Nahusha,  as  well  as  that  of  Agni  and  Kaiyapa, 
occurred." 

Fourth.  In  the  Atharva-veda,  v.  4,  1,  the  salutary  plant  "kushtha" 
is  spoken  of  as  growing  on  the  other  side  of  the  Himalaya : —  Udan 
jato  Himavatah  praohydm  niyasejanam,  "  Produced  to  the  north  of  the 
Himavat,  thou  art  carried  to  the  people  in  the  east."  This  reference 
may  perhaps  be  held  to  imply  that  the  contemporaries  of  the  author  of 
this  mantra  had  some  acquaintance  with  the  country  on  the  other  side 
of  the  great  chain. 

Fifth.  In  a  passage  of  the  S'ankhayana  or  Kaushitaki-brahmana 
vii.  6  (cited  by  Weber,  Ind.  Stud.  i.  153,  note,  and  alluded  to  by 
Mviller,  "  Last  Eesults  of  the  Turanian  Eesearches,"  p.  340),  it  is  re- 
ported that  the  north  was  resorted  to  at  an  early  period  for  the  purpose 
of  studying  language,  as  it  was  best  known  in  that  region :  Pafhyd, 
Svastir  udichim  diiam  prajdnat  |  Vdg  vai  Pathya  Svastih  \  tmmdd 
vdiehyam  diii  prajndtatard  vdg  udyate  \  udanohe  u  eva  yanti  vdcham 
iiksMtum  \  yo  vd  tatah  dgaohhati  tasya  vd  iuirushante  " iti  sma  aha"  |. 
eshd  hi  vdeho  dik  prajndtd  \     "  Pathya  Svasti  (a  goddess)  knew  the 

i"'  Zeifschriffcj  as  above,  ii.  67,  and  Schwanbeck,  Megastlienis  Indica,  pp.  77,  117, 
nepl  5e  Tuv  ■)(t\terS>v  "tirepPopdav  ra  auTci  Keyiiv  SiiUui'fS))  Koi  TUySdptf  Kol  £\Aou 
fu)8o\6yois. 


FIRST  FAEGAED  OF  THE  VENDIDAD.  329 

northern  region.  Now  Pathya  Svasti  is  Vaoh  [the  goddess  of  speech]. 
Hence  in  the  northern  region  speech  is  better  known  and  better  spoken : 
and  it  is  to  the  north  that  men  go  to  learn  speech  :  men  listen  to  the 
instructions  of  any  one  who  comes  from  that  quarter,  saying,  '  he  says 
[so  and  so] ':  for  that  is  renowned  as  the  region  of  speech."  On 
this  the  commentator  Vinayaka  Bhatta  remarks  (Weber,  as  above) : 
"  Prajnatatara  vag  udyate"  hasmlre  Sarasvatl  kirtyate  \  Badarikakram& 
veda-ghoshah  iruyate  |  "  vdcham  sihshitum, "  Sarasvatl-prasadartham 
"udanche  eva  yanti"  |  i/o  va  prasadafh  IdbdJiva  "  tatah  dgacMati"] 
"smaha"  prasiddham  dlia  sma  sarvalolcah\  '"Language  is  better 
understood  and  spoken :'  for  Sarasvatl  is  spoken  of  [as  having  her 
abode]  in  Kashmir,  and  in  the  hermitage  of  Badarika  [Badarinath  in 
the  Himalaya,  apparently],  the  sound  of  the  Vedas  is  heard.  '  Men 
go  to  the  north  to  learn  language ' :  to  obtain  the  favour  of  Sarasvatl ; 
and  'he  who  comes  thence,'  having  obtained  her  favour,  'is  listened 
to  with  attention,'  as  every  one  knows,  and  repeats." 

There  may  lie  in  this  passage  some  faint  reminiscence  of  an  early 
connexion  with  the  north. 


Sect.  IX. —  Whether  any  tradition  regarding  the  earliest  abodes  of  the 
Arian  race  is  contained  in  the  First  Far  gar  d  of  the  Vendidad. 

I  shall  now  proceed  to  quote  at  some  length  the  Pirst  Fargard  of  the 
Vendidad,  descriptive  of  the  creation  of  various  countries  by  Ahura- 
mazda,  which  is  held  by  some  scholars  to  contain  a  reference  to  the 
earliest  regions  known  to,  and  successively  occupied  by,  the  Iranians, 
though  this  is  denied  by  others.  Being  unacquainted  with  Zend,  I 
shall  borrow  the  abstract  which  I  give  of  this  section  from  the  versions 
of  Professor  Spiegel™  and  Dr.  Haug.'™ 

1-4. — "  Ahura-mazda  spake  to  the  holy  Zarathustra :  '  I  formed 
into  an  agreeable  region  that  which  before  was  nowhere  habitable. 
Had  I  not  done  this,  all  living  things  would  have  departed  to  Airyana- 
vaejo.'  '"* 

W2  Avesta :  Die  Heiligen  Sohriften  der  Parsen  (Aresta :  The  Sacred  Vritinga  of 
the  Parsis),  yol.  i.,  pp.  61,  ff. 

™  Das  Erste  Kapitel  des  Vendidad  (The  First  Chapter  of  the  Vendidad),  pp.  18,  ff. 
104  The  purport  of  this  is.  Dr.  Haug  remarks,  that  Airyana-vaejo  was  originally 
VOL.  II.  22 


330  ENUMERATION  OF  COUNTRIES 

5-9. — '  I,  Ahura-mazda  created  as  tie  first,  best  region,  Airyana- 
vaejo,  in  a  state  of  excellence.  Then  Angra-mainyus,  the  destroyer, 
formed  in  opposition  to  it,  a  great  serpent,  and  winter  [or  snow],  the 
creation  of  the  daevas.  There  are  there  ten  months  of  winter,  and  two 
of  summer.' 

13,  14. — 'I,  Ahura-mazda,  created  as  the  second,  best  region,  Gau, 
in  which  Sughdha  is  situated.' 

[Here,  and  in  most  of  the  following  cases,  I  omit  the  counter- 
creations  of  Angra-mainyus.  j 

17,  18. — 'I,  etc.,  created  as  the  third,  best  region,  Mouru,  the 
mighty,  the  holy.' 

21,  22. — 'I,  etc.,  created  as  the  fourth,  best  region,  the  fortunate 
BakhdhI,  with  the  lofty  banner.' 

25,  26. — 'I,  etc.,  created  as  the  fifth,  best  region  Nisai,'  [situated 
between  Mouru  and  BakhdhI.] 

29,  30. — '  I,  etc.,  created  as  the  sixth,  best  region,  Haroyu,  abound- 
ing in  houses  [or  water].' 

33-36. — 'I,  etc.,  created  as  the  seventh,  best  region,  Yaekereta 
where  Duj'ak  is  situated.  In  opposition  to  it,  Angra-mainyus,  the 
destroyer,  created  the  Pairika  Khnathaiti,  who  clung  to  Keresaspa.' 

37,  38. — '  I,  etc.,  created  as  the  eighth,  best  region,  Urva,  full  of 
pastures.' 

41,  42. — '  I,  etc.,  created  as  the  niath,  best  region,  Khnenta,  in 
which  Vehrkana  lies.' 

45,  46. — 'I,  etc.,  created  as  the  tenth,  best  region,  the  fortunate 
Haraqaiti.' 

49,  50. — 'I,  etc.,  created  as  the  eleventh,  best  region,  Haetumat, 
the  rich  and  shining.' 

59,  60. — 'I,  etc.,  created  as  the  twelfth,  best  region,  Eagha,  with 
three  fortresses  [or  races].' 

63,  44. — '  I,  etc.,  created  as  the  thirteenth,  best  region,  Chakhra, 
the  strong.' 

67,  68. — '  I,  etc.,  created  as  the  fourteenth,  best  region,  Yarena, 
with  four  corners  ;  to  which  was  born  Thraetaono,  who  slew  the  ser- 
pent Dahaka.' 

the  only  cultivated  country,  and  that  all  other  countries  were  waste.  As  it  was  to  be 
feared  that  the  inhabitants  of  the  waste  would  overrun  Airyana-vaejo,  other  countries 
also  were  made  habitable  by  Ahura-mazda. 


IN  THE  FIRST  FAEGARD  OF  THE  VENDIDAD.       331 

72,  73. — '  I,  etc.,  created  as  the  fifteenth,  best  country,  Hapta- 
hendu  [from  the  eastern  to  the  western  Hendu^"*].  In  opposition, 
Angra-mainyus  created  untimely  evils,  and  pernicious  heat  [or  fever].' 

76,  77. — 'I,  etc.,  created  as  the  sixteenth,  and  best,  the  people  who, 
live  without  a  ruler  on  the  sea-shore.' 

81. — 'There  are  besides,  other  countries,  fortunate,  renowned,  lofty, 
prosperous  and  splendid.' " 

I  shall  now  adduce  the  most  important  comments  of  different  authors 
on  this  curious  passage. 

Haug  observes  (p.  9)  that  "the  winter  of  ten  months'  duration  as- 
signed to  Airyana-vaejo,  points  to  a  position  far  to  the  north,  at  a 
great  distance  beyond  the  Jaxartes ;  but  the  situation  cannot,  in  the 
absence  of  any  precise  accounts,  be  more  specifically  fixed.  Only  so 
much  is  undeniable,  that  the  Iranians  came  from  the  distant  north. 
The  same  thing  results  from  the  Second  Fargard  of  the  Vendidad, 
where  the  years  of  Yima  are  enumerated  by  winters,  and  the  evils  of 
winter  are  depicted  in  lively  colours."  The  same  writer  further 
remarks  (pp.  23,  24) :  "  By  Airyana-vaej5  we  are  to  understand  the 
original  country  of  the  Arians,  and  paradise  of  the  Iranians.  Its 
ruler  was  King  Tima,  the  renowned  Jemshed  of  Iranian  legends,  who 
is  hence  called  iruto  Airyene-vaejalii,  '  famous  in  Airyana-vaejo.' 
(I"argard  ii.)  In  this  region  Ahura-mazda  and  Zarathustra  adore  the 
water  of  the  celestial  spring  {Ard/vi  iura  anahitd,  Yasht,  6,  17,  104); 
and  here,  too,  Zarathustra  supplicates  Drva^pa  and  Ashi.  Thus, 
Airyana-vaejo  had  become  an  entirely  mythical  region,  the  abode  of 
gods  and  heroes,  free  from  sickness,  death,  frost  and  heat,  as  is  said 
of  Yima's  realm.  We  can,  however,  discover  a  historical  substratum 
in  the  chapter  before  us.  In  Airyana-vaejo  the  winter  lasts  for  ten 
months ;  but  winter  being  a  calamity  inflicted  by  Angra-mainyus,  was 
not  compatible  with  the  idea  of  a  paradise,  the  abode  of  joy  and 
blessedness.  ■  This  long  duration  of  winter  is,  however,  perfectly 
characteristic  of  regions  lying  far  to  the  north,  and  is  a  primitive 
reminiscence  of  the  real  cradle  of  the  Iranians.  In  the  legend  of 
Airyana-vaej5  an  actual  historical  recollection  of  this  earliest  home 
has  thus  become  blended  with  the  conception  of  a  primeval  abode  of 

105  Spiegel  omits  the  words  mthin  brackets. 


332  IDENTIFICATION  OF  THESE  COUNTRIES. 

mankind  in  paradise,  such  as  is  represented  in  so  many  popular  tra- 
ditions." 

"  Airy  ana- vaejo,"  says  Spiegel,  "is  to  be  placed  in  the  furthest  east 
of  the  Iranian  plateau,  in  the  region  where  the  Oxus  and  Jaxartes 
take  their  rise." 

The  second  country  is  Sogdiana ;  the  third,  Merv  (the  ancient  Mar- 
giana) ;  the  fourth,  Balkh  (the  ancient  Bactria) ;  the  fifth,  Nisa  (the 
ancient  Msssa) ;  "^  the  sixth,  Herat  (the  ancient  Aria) ;  the  seventh  is 
Kabul,""  according  to  Spiegel,  and  Sejestan  according  to  Burnouf, 
Lassen,  and  Haug;  the  eighth  is  Eabul,  according  to  Haug  and 
Lassen ;  "*  the  ninth  is  Gurgan,  according  to  Spiegel,^"'  and  Kandahar, 
according  to  Haug ;  the  tenth  is  the  Araehosia  of  the  ancients ;  the 
eleventh  is  the  vaUey  of  the  Hilmend  river;  the  twelfth  is  Eei  in 
Media ;  the  thirteenth  and  fourteenth  are  variously  placed ;  the 
fifteenth  is  the  country  of  the  seven  rivers  {Sapta-sindhmai),  or  the 
Panjab ;  and  the  sixteenth  may,  Haug  thinks,  be  sought  on  the  shores 
of  the  Caspian  Sea."" 

In  regard  to  the  age  of  the  section  under  review.  Dr.  Haug  remarks 
(p.  6) :  "  The  original  document  'itself  [as  distinguished  from  certain 
additions  which  appear  to  have  been  interpolated  in  it]  is  certainly  of 
high  antiquity,  and  is  undoubtedly  one  of  the  oldest  of  the  pieces 
which  compose  the  existing  Vendidad.  But  in  the  form  in  which  it 
lies  before  us  (even  after  striking  out  the  late  interpolations)  it  is 
decidedly  subsequent  to  Zarathustra;  and  later  than  the  so-called 
'  Gathas,'  in  which,  for  the  most  part,  the  genuine  sayings  and  doctrines 

'"^  Spiegel  says  that  in  the  writings  on  the  geography  of  this  section,  the  position 
of  this  country  has  been  much  disputed.  Comm.  p.  24.  (The  first  volume  of  this 
commentary  appeared  in  1865,  thirteen  years  after  the  publication  of  the  first  volume 
of  the  translation  of  the  Avesta.) 

"?  According  to  his  commentary,  p.  28,  Spiegel  thinks  that  the  correctness  of  this 
identification  cannot  be  decidedly  guaranteed,  but  that  it  has  much  in  its  favour. 

'0*  According  to  Spiegel,  this  locality  is  difficult  to  determine.    Comm.  p.  31, 

""  In  his  Comm.,  p.  32,  Spiegel  says  that  the  name  Vehrkana  appears  to  coincide 
■with  the  ancient  Hyreania.   Lassen  concurs  in  this.   Ind.  Ant.,  i.  635,  note  (2nd  ed.). 

'1"  In  a  paper  "  On  the  Geographical  Arrangement  of  the  Arian  Countries  men- 
tioned in  the  First  Fargard  of  the  Vendidad,"  published  in  the  Transactions  of  the 
Berlin  Academy  for  1856,  pp.  621-647,  Dr.  Kiepert  contests  the  conclusions  of  Dr. 
Haug  and  others  in  regard  to  the  position  of  some  of  the  countries.  Dr.  Haug 
defends  his  own  views  in  a  paper  in  the  Journ.  of  the  Germ.  Or.  Society,  vol.  xi., 
pp.  526-633. 


DOES  THE  LIST  DESCBIBE  A  MIGRATION  f  333 

of  Zarathustra  have  been  handed  down.  The  chief  reason  for  this 
conclusion  is,  that  the  passage  under  review  exhibits  the  Persian 
doctrine  in  a  far  more  developed  shape  than  the  songs  of  Zarathustra." 
And  again  in  p.  7,  "  Though  there  is  thus  no  doubt  that  this  Fargard 
only  dates  from  the  period  after  Zarathustra,  we  do  not  thereby  mean 
to  say  that  it  is  of  modern  origin ;  on  the  contrary,  its  whole  contents 
show  that  it  must  be  very  ancient.  We  can  scarcely  derive  from  it 
any  fixed  historical  data.  From  the  names  of  the  countries,  however, 
we  can  gather  not  only  that  the  geographical  knowledge  of  its  author 
was  very  limited,  but  also  that  the  region  actually  occupied  by  the 
Arians  was  much  more  contracted  than  we  afterwards  find  it." 

In  his  first  volume  Professor  Spiegel  remarks  on  the  same  Fargard  as 
follows,  p.  59:  "The  great  importance  of  this  first  chapter  for  the  pre- 
historical  age  of  the  Indo-Germanic  race  in  general,  and  of  the  Persian 
race  in  particular,  has  been  fully  allowed  by  investigators  of  the  mytho- 
logy and  history  of  the  ancient  world.  Heeren,  Rhode,  Lassen,  and  others, 
have  recognized  in  these  accounts  of  the  Vendidad  a  half-historical,  half- 
mythical  fragment,  which  reveals  to  us  the  state  of  geographical  know- 
ledge among  the  followers  of  the  Avesta  at  the  time  when  it  was  com- 
posed. Perhaps,  we  may  also,  with  Ehode,  discover  in  it  the  history 
of  the  gradual  diffusion  of  the  Iranian  race,  regarding  the  first- 
mentioned  country  as  their  primeval  abode,  and  those  which  follow 
as  the  regions  which  were  peopled  at  a  later  date.  The  order  in 
which  the  countries  are  arranged  appears  to  tell  in  favour  of  this 
hypothesis." 

In  his  second  volume,  p.  cix.  Professor  Spiegel  retracts  his  qualified 
adhesion  to  the  view  of  Ehode.  He  says :  "  I  cannot  coincide  in  the 
attempt  to  discover  in  the  first  chapter  of  the  Vendidad  an  account  of 
the  gradual  migration  of  the  Iranians.  It  has  been  said  that  that  list 
of  countries  is  a  continuous  history  of  their  attempts  at  colonization, 
beginning  with  their  northern  home,  and  ending  with  Hapta-Hendu  or 

India.     But  the  list  nowhere  speaks  of  any  such  migration 

Hence,  I  see  in  this  chapter  nothing  but  a  specification  of  the  countries 
known  to  the  Iranians  at  a  particular  time.  This  period,  however, 
cannot  be  a  very  recent  one,  as  the  name  Hapta-Hendu  is  connected 
with  the  Vedic  period.  This  name,  however,  may  have  been  preserved 
in  Persia  after  it  had  disappeared  in  India,  and  we  cannot  conclude 


334  OPINIONS  OP  HCTET  AND  OTHERS  ON  THE  LIST. 

from  it  that  this  Fargard  was  composed  contemporaneoTisly  with  the 
Vedas." '" 

M.  Pictet,  on  the  other  hand,  makes  the  following  observations: 
"  These  names  [of  countries]  enable  us  to  follow  step  by  step  the 
extension  of  the  Iranians  over  the  vast  domain  which  they  have  ever 
since  occupied.  The  thing  which  interests  us  the  most  in  this 
enumeration  is  the  point  of  departure,  and  the  general  direction  of 
the  movement.  The  first  perfect  abode  which  Ormuzd  created  is 
called  '  Airyana-vaejo.'  ...  As  Eitter  and  Lassen  remark,  the 
ten  months  of  winter  and  only  two  of  summer  can  only  apply  to  the 
highest  valleys  of  Belurtagh  and  Mustagh  at  the  north-east  corner  of 
the  Iranian  table-land.  But  it  is  difficult  to  conceive  that  an 
'  excellent '  abode  could  ever  have  existed  there,  unless  we  assume 
a  very  improbable  alteration  of  climate.  We  are  as  little  able  to 
imagine  bow  a  country  so  savage  and  so  poor  could  have  been  the 
cradle  of  a  race  so  prolific  as  the  Aryas.  I  believe,  then,  that  we 
must  separate,  in  this  tradition,  the  mythical  element  from  the  his- 
torical data.  Airyana-vaejo,  the  primeval  paradise,  was  probably 
nothing  more  than  a  very  confused  reminiscence  of  the  country  origin- 
ally inhabited  by  the  Aryas.  At  their  dispersion,  the  Perso-Arian 
branch,  driven  back  perhaps  by  the  gradual  increase  of  the  Arian 
population,  may  have  directed  their  steps  towards  the  east  as  far  as  the 
high  valleys  of  Belurtagh  and  Mustagh,  where  their  further  progress 
would  be  arrested.  At  a  later  period,  when  the  emigration  of  the 
other  Arian  tribes  had  left  the  field  clear,  they  descended  from  these 
unprofitable  regions  towards  the  more  favoured  countries  of  which 
they  had  preserved  some  recollection,  as  we  learn  from  the  myth  in 
Vendidad." — Origines  Indo-Europeennes,  pp.  36,  37. 

Professor  Miiller's  views,  as  well  as  those  of  M.  Breal,  on  the  Pirst 
Pargard  of  the  Vendidad  will  be  found  above,  in  note  90,  p.  314."* 

'"  -In  his  Cominentary  on  the  Ayesta,  vol.  i.  (1865),  p.  1,  the  same  author  writes : 
"This  view  (that  this  Fargard  descrihes  the  migi-ation  of  the  Iranians)  was  first 
shaken  by  Kiepert  in  his  dissertation  on  "  The  Geographical  Arrangement  of  the 
Names  of  Arian  Countries  in  the  First  Fargard  of  the  Vendidad  "  (Proceedings  of  the 
Berlin  Academy  of  Science,  Dec,  1856,  p.  621,  ff.),  with  which  I  in  general  agree, 
as  does  also  M.  Breal,  De  la  Geographie  de  VAvesta  (Journ.  Asiatique,  1862).  On 
the  other  hand,  Hang  and  Bunsen  maintain  the  view  that  this  chapter  describes  the 
migrations  of  the  Indo-Germans,  and  in  particular  of  the  Arians,  up  to  the  time  of 
their  immigration  into  Iran  and  India  (compare  Bunsen's  ^gyptens  Stelle  in  der 
■Welt-gesohichte,  vol.  ii.,  p.  104,  ff.).  "*  See  Appendix,  note  K. 


BY  "WHAT  ROUTE  DID  THE  ARYAS  ENTER  INDIA?  335 

Seci.   X. —  What  was  the  route  hy  which  the  Aryas  penetrated  into 


"We  have  already  seen  (pp.  306,  ff.)  that  according  to  the  most 
numerous  authorities,  Bactria,  or  its  neighbourhood,  was  the  country 
which  the  different  branches  of  the  Indo-European  race  occupied  in 
common  before  their  separation.  By  what  route,  then,  did  they  enter 
into  India?"' 

A.  W.  Ton  Schlegel  thinks  that  the  Indo-Arians  must  have  pene- 
trated into  that  country  from  the  west.  After  describing  the  difficulties 
of  the  sea  routes  leading  to  India  from  the  south,  and  of  the  land  route 
over  the  Himalaya  from  the  north,  he  goes  on  to  say:   "The  western 

"'  In  the  first  edition  of  this  volume,  p.  345,  I  wrote  as  follows :  "  Professor 
Benfey,  who,  apparently,  differs  to  some  extent  from  other  scholars  in  designating 
that  primeval  country  as  Tartary,  is  of  opinion  that  the  Indian  and  Persian  branches 
of  this  family  m^y,  after  their  separation  from  the  others,  have  dwelt  together,  more 
to  the  south,  in  Little  Thibet,  the  country  near  the  sources  of  the  Indus ; "  and  I 
then  proceed  to  quote  from  his  Indien,  pp.  14,  ff.,  a  passage  in  which  he  argues  that 
most  probably  the  Indians  "crossed  over  from  their  ancient  seats  beyond,  and  in  the 
northern  valleys  of,  the  Himalaya,  into  the  southern  plains,  rather  as  peaceable 
colonists  than  as  martial  conquerors.  The  passes  over  which  the  road  lies  are,  it  is 
true,  difScult,  but  by  no  means  insuperable,  and  are  available  for  traffic  and  every 
sort  of  intercourse,  though  difficult  for  warlike  operations.  By  these  routes  the  first 
Aryas  who  settled  in  India,  partly  following  the  various  branches  of  the  Ganges, 
might  have  found  their  way,  through  Kemaon,  Garhwal,  or  Sirmur,  to  the  plains 
situated  to  the  the  south  of  the  Himalaya.  Here  they  founded  Indraprastha,  and 
thence  spread  themselves  around,  subduing  the  feeble  Mlechhas,  and  gradually  con- 
quering all  the  parts  of  India  which  were  not  too  difficult  of  access." 

In  his  review  of  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  in  the  Gott.  Gel.  Anzeigen  for  1861, 
p.  136,  Prof.  Benfey  writes ;  "  The  author  has  also  given  a  place  to  the  opioion  ex- 
pressed by  me  in  1840  in  regard  to  the  road  by  which  the  Sanskrit-speaking  race 
immigrated  into  India.  This  was  written  at  a  time  when  I  had  scarcely  any  means 
of  becoming  acquainted  with  the  Vedaa ;  and  since  then  I  have  had  no  opportunity  for 
expressing  my  views  anew  upon  this  question.  But  already  in  1844,  when  I  first 
read  through  the  Rigveda  in  London,  and  still  more  in  1846,  after  Roth's  dissertation 
'  On  the  Literature,  etc.  of  the  Veda,'  had  appeared,  I,  too,  became  firmly  con- 
vinced that  it  was  not  the  region  of  the  SarasvatI  which  was  to  be  assumed  as  the 
earliest  abode  of  the  immigrants  into  India  (on  which  my  opinion  regarding  their 
route  had  been  founded),  but  the  country  of  the  Upper  Indus,  and  that,  consequently, 
their  route  must  have  been  over  the  Hindukush  and  the  Indus."  Professor  Benfey 
then  goes  on  to  state  his  conviction  that  his  earliest  view  was  the  only  one  to  which 
the  materials  at  his  command  before  the  Vedas  were  accessible  could  properly  lead. 
And  he  refers  to  the  fact  that  Prof.  Weber's  opinion  had  at  first  coincided  with  his 
own  (the  passage  will  be  quoted  in  a  note  further  on,  p.  339),  and  had  only  at  a  later 
period  been  altered  in  conformity  with  the  materials  now  accessible. 


336  BY  WHAT  ROUTE  DID  THE 

side  of  India  appears  to  be  more  open,  as  from  Kashmir  to  the  Delta 
of  the  Indus  the  boundaries  are  not  otherwise  marked  than  by  that 
river  itself.  But  in  its  upper  course  the  Indus  is  not  navigable,  owing 
to  its  rapidity  and  its  cataracts:  and  in  addition  its  right  bank  is 
flanked  by  mountains.  Towards  the  sea  it  spreads  out  into,  or  is 
surrounded  by,  marshes :  more  in  the  interior,  and  even  above  the 
confluence  of  the  five  rivers,  it  is  bounded  by  sandy  deserts.  From 
that  point  to  the  place  where  it  enters  the  plains  near  Attock,  a  tract 
intervenes  where  the  passage  may  be  more  easily  effected.  Accord- 
ingly it  is  on  this  side  that  India  has  always  been  entered  by  foreign 
conquerors,  by  Semiramis,  if  her  Indian  expedition  is  authentic,  .  . 
by  Alexander  the  Grreat,  Seleucus,  and  the  Greek  kings  of  Bactria, 
by  the  Indo-Scythians,  or  nomad  races,  who  invaded  certain  provinces 
during  the  century  preceding  our  era ;  by  Mahmud  of  Ghazni,  by  the 
Afghans,  the  Moguls,  and  the  Persians  under  Nadir  Shah.  Thus  all 
probabilities  are  united  in  favour  of  the  supposition)  that  the  ancestors 
of  the  Hindus  came  from  the  same  side ;  a  supposition  which  we  find 
to  be  confirmed  by  arguments  of  another  kind.  The  Panjab  would ' 
consequently  be  the  first  country  occupied  by  the  colonists.  Tradition 
does  not,  however,  celebrate  this  as  a  classic  region.  On  the  contrary, 
in  a  passage  of  the  Mahabharata,  published  and  commented  on  by 
Lassen,  its  inhabitants  are  described  as  less  pure  and  correct  in  their 
customs  than  the  real  Aryas,  as  perhaps  they  had  been  corrupted  by 
the  vicinity  of  barbarians.  This  leads  us  to  believe  that  it  was  only 
after  the  colonists  had  spread  themselves  over  the  plains  of  the  Ganges, 
that  their  form  of  worship,  and  the  social  order  dependent  upon 
it,  could  have  assumed  a  permanent  form." — Essais  litt^raires  et 
historiques,  pp.  455-457. 

The  same  view  is  taken  by  Lassen  (Indian  Antiquities,  1st  ed.,  i. 
511;  2nded.,  p.  612):— 

"  The  Indians,  like  most  other  nations  of  the  ancient  world,  believe 
themselves  to  be  autochthonous :  their  sacred  legends  represent  India 
itself  as  the  scene  of  creation,  as  the  abode  of  the  patriarchs,  and  the 
theatre  of  their  deeds ;  and  they  have  no  recollection  of  having  sprung 
from  any  country  out  of  India,  or  of  having  ever  lived  beyond  the 
bounds  of  their  own  Bharatavarsha.     (See,  however,  above,  p.  323,  ff.) 

"It  is  true  that  we  might  be  tempted  to  discover  in  the  superior 


INDO-AEIANS  ENTER  INDIA.  337 

sacredness  which  they  ascribe  to  the  north  a  reference,  unintelligible 
to  themselves,  to  a  closer  connexion  which  they  had  formerly  had  with 
the  northern  countries ;  for  the  abodes  of  most  of  the  gods  are  placed 
towards  the  north  in  and  beyond  the  Himalaya,  and  the  holy  and 
wonderful  mountain  Meru  is  situated  in  the  remotest  regions  in  the 
same  direction.  A  more  exact  examination  will,  however,  lead  to  the 
conviction  that  the  conception  to  which  we  have  referred  has  been 
developed  in  India  itself,  and  is  to  be  derived  from  the  peculiar  cha- 
racter of  the  northern  mountain-range.  The  daily  prospect  of  the 
snowy  summits  of  the  Himalaya  glittering  far  and  wide  over  the 
plains,  and  in  the  strictest  sense  insurmountable,  and  the  knowledge 
which  they  had  of  the  entirely  different  character  of  the  table-land 
beyond,  with  its  extensive  and  tranquil  domains,  its  clear  and  cloudless 
sky  and  peculiar  natural  productions,  would  necessarily  designate  the 
north  as  the  abode  of  the  gods  and  the  theatre  of  wonders ;  while  its 
holiness  is  explicable  from  the  irresistible  impression  produced  upon 
the  mind  by  surrounding  nature.  TJttara  Kuru,  the  Elysium  in  the 
'remotest  north,  may  be  most  properly  regarded  as  an  ideal  picture 
created  by  the  imagination,  of  a  life  of  tranquil  felicity,  and  not  as 
a  recollection  of  any  early  residence  of  the  Kurus  in  the  north.  Such 
at  least  is  true  of  the  representation  which  we  have  of  this  country 
in  the  epic  poems.  It  is,  however,  probable  that  originally,  and  as 
late  as  the  Vedic  era,  a  recollection  of  this  sort  attached  itself  to  that 
country,  though  in  later  times  no  trace  of  it  has  been  preserved." 

After  stating  the  reasons  (already  detailed  above,  pp.  308,  ff.)  which 
lead  to  the  conclusion  that  the  Indians  could  not  have  been  autochthonous, 
Lassen  proceeds  as  follows  (1st  ed.,  p.  515,  2nd.  ed.,  p.  616):  "There 
is  only  one  route  by  which  we  can  imagine  the  Arian  Indians  to  have 
immigrated  into  India;  they  must  have  come  through  the  Panjab,  and 
they  must  have  reached  the  Panjab  through  western  Kabulistan.  The 
roads  leading  from  the  country  on  the  Oxus  into  eastern  Kabulistan  and 
the  valley  of  the  Panjkora,  or  into  the  upper  valley  of  the  Indus  down 
upon  Grilgit,  and  from  thence  either  down  the  course  of  the  Indus,  or 
from  Gilgit  over  the  lofty  plateau  of  Deotsu  down  on  Kashmir,  are 
now  known  to  us  as  the  roughest  and  most  difficult  that  exist,  and 
do  not  appear  to  have  been  ever  much  or  frequently  used  as  lines 
of  communication.     We   can  only  imagine  the  small  tribes  of  the 


338  BT  WHAT  EOUTE  DID  THE 

Daradas  to  have  come  by  the  second  route  from  the  northern,  side 
of  the  Hindukush  into  their  elevated  valleys ;  but  we  cannot  suppose 
the  mass  of  the  Arians  to  !have  reached  India  by  this  road.  All  the 
important  expeditions  of  nations  or  armies  which  are  known  to  us 
have  proceeded  through  the  western  passes  of  the  Hindukush,  and  if 
we  suppose  the  Arian  Indians  to  have  come  into  India  from  Baotria, 
this  is  the  only  route  by  which  we  can  assume  them  to  have 
arrived."  It  is  true  that  the  Hindus  attach  no  idea  of  sanctity  to 
the  Panjab;  on  the  contrary,  "the  SarasvatT  is  the  western  boundary 
of  the  pure  land,  governed  by  Brahmanical  law.  There  are,  indeed, 
Indians  dwelling  further  to  the  west,  but  they  do  not  observe  the 
Brahmanical  ordinances  in  all  their  integrity.  But  this  mode  of  re- 
garding the  western  tribes  can  only  have  arisen  after  the  Indian 
institutions  had  been  developed,  and  a  marked  difference  had  become 
observable  between  the  people  living  east  of  the  Sarasvati,  and  those 
on  the  western  border.  The  people  of  the  Panjab  always  appear  as 
descended  from  the  same  stock,  and  in  spite  of  the  aversion  in  question, 
the  epic  legends  recount  to  us  frequent  relations  between  the  kings  of* 
the  pure  portion  of  India  and  the  tribes  to  the  westward.  There  is  no 
break  in  the  chain  of  Indian  races  towards  the  west."  (p.  616,  2nded.) 

M.  Burnouf  briefly  indicates  his  opinion  on  the  question  with  which 
we  are  now  occupied,  by  spe^kiag  of  "the  movement  which  from  the 
earliest  ages  had  carried  the  Arian  race  from  the  Indus  to  the  Ganges, 
and  from  the  Ganges  into  the  Dekhan,"  etc.,  Preface  to  Bhag.  Pur., 
vol.  iii.,  p.  xxix. 

I  am  not  aware  whether  Professor  Roth  has  ever  expressed  an 
opinion  as  to  the  precise  route  by  which  the  Arians  entered  India; 
but  in  his  work  on  the  Lit.  and  Hist,  of  the  Veda  (1846),  p.  136,  he 
writes  as  follows:  "It  is  more  than  probable  that  the  bulk  of  the 
tribes  which  we  may  designate  as  the  Vedio  people  dwelt  nearer  to 
the  Indus  than  the  Jumna,  and  that  the  battle  which  is  described  in 
the  hymn  before  us  was  one  of  those  conflicts  in  which  the  northern 
tribes  pressed  upon  the  southern,  on  their  way  towards  the  regions 
which  they  were  eventually  to  occupy.  The  Indus  is  well  known  and 
frequently  celebrated  in  the  hymns  of  the  Rigveda,  while  at  this 
moment  I  know  of  only  one  passage  in  which  the  Ganges  is  mentioned, 
and  that  only  in  a  way  which  assigns  to  it  an  inferior  rank." 


INDO-AEIANS  ENTEE  INDIA  ?  339 

The  same  writer  in  his  article  on  "Brahma  and  the  Brahmans,"  in 
the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society  for  1847,  p.  81,  again 
expresses  himself  thus:  "When  the  Vedio  people,  expelled  by  some 
shock — and  that  at  a  period  more  recent  than  the  majority  of  the 
hymns  of  the  Yeda — relinquished  their  seats  in  the  Panjab  and  on  the 
Indus,  advanced  further  and  further  to  the  south,  drove  the  aborigines 
into  the  hills,  and  occupied  the  broad  tracts  lying  between  the  Ganges, 
the  Jumna,  and  the  Vindhya  range,  the  time  had  arrived  when  the 
division  of  power,  the  relations  of  king  and  priest,  could  become  trans- 
formed in  the  most  rapid  and  comprehenaive  manner." 

Professor  Weber  also  speaks  of  the  Arians  as  at  one  time  dwelling 
beyond  the  Indus.  In  his  Hist,  of  Ind.  Lit.  (1852),  pp.  2  and  3,  he 
writes :  "In  the  oldest  parts  of  the  Eigveda  the  Indian  people  appear 
to  us  as  settled  on  the  north-western  borders  of  India,  in  the  Panjab, 
and  even  beyond  the -Panjab,  on  the  borders  of  the  Kubha  river,  the 
Kophen  in  Eabul.'"  The  gradual  .diffusion  of  this  people  from  this 
point  towards  the  east,  beyond  the  Sarasvati  and  over  Hindustan  as 
far  as  the  Ganges,  can  be  traced  almost  step  by  step  in  the  later  por- 
tions of  the  Vedic  writings."     See  also  Ind.  Stud.  ii.  20. 

In  his  "  Recent  Investigations  on  Ancient  India,"  the  same  writer 
similarly  remarks  :  "  The  oldest  hymns  of  the  Veda  show  us  the  Arian 
people  still  dwelling  Beyond,  or,  at  least,  only  on  the  north-western 
frontiers  of  India ;  viz.,  in  the  tract  between  the  Cabul  river  and  the 
Indus,  as  well  as  in  the  Panjab.  Their  advance  from  this  point,  and 
extension  over  India  can  be  traced  step  by  step  in  their  literature. 
Their  road  lay  to  the  north  of  the  great  desert  of  Marwar,  from  the 
S'atadru  (the  modern  Sutlej)  to  the  Sarasvati,  a  river  (esteemed  at  a 
later  period  as  of  the  highest  sanctity)  which  loses  itself  in  the  sands 
of  the  desert.     This  must  have  been  a  point  where  they  made  a  halt 

1'*  In  his  Indisclie  Studien,  vol.  i.  p.  165  (puWished  1849-60),  "Weber  speats  of 
the  "  Ariau  Indians  heing  driven  by  a  deluge  from  their  home  (see  above,  p.  335,  note), 
and  coming  from  the  north,  not  from  the  west  (as  Lasaen,  i.  516,  will  have  it)  into 
.  India  ;  first  of  all  to  Kashmir  and  the  Panjab ;  as  it  is  only  in  this  way  that  we  can 
explain  the  northern  Kurus  and  the  northern  Madras,  with  whom  the  conception  of 
the  golden  age  became  afterwards  associated."  As,  however,  in  the  passages  quoted 
in  the  text,  which  were  written  at  a  later  date,  Weber  supposes  the  Arians  to  have 
dwelt  on  the  Kabul  river,  they  must,  in  order  to  arrive  there,  have  either  arrived  by 
the  route  which  Lassen  assigns,  or  have  afterwards  spread  themselves  to  the  west- 
ward. 


340  AEEIVAL  OF  THE  INDO-AEIANS  FEOM  NORTH-WEST 

of  long  continuance,  as  may  be  concluded  from  the  great  sacredness 
ascribed  in  later  times  to  this  region.  At  that  period  it  formed  the 
boundary  line  between  the  Brahmanical  organization  which  was  being 
now  formed  in  Hindustan,  and  those  Arian  races  of  the  west  which 
retained  the  free  manner  of  life  inherited  from  their  forefathers." — 
Indian  Sketches,  pp.  13,  14. 

M.  Langlois,  in  the  Preface  to  his  French  translation  of  the  E.V., 
speaks  to  the  same  effect,  pp.  ix,  x:  "The  hymns  of  the  Eigveda 
were  composed  for  tribes  which  had  come  from  the  banks  of  the  Indus, 
and  were  living  in  the  plains  watered  by  the  Granges.  This  people 
seems  to  have  belonged  to  that  great  branch  of  the  human  race  known 
under  the  name  of  the  Aryas.  They  brought  with  them  a  mild  and 
simple  civilization,  patriarchal  manners,  a  polished  language.  .  .  . 
These  Aryas,  as  they  established  themselves  in  India,  drove  back 
before  them  the  ancient  populations,  which  then  proceeded  to  occupy 
the  forests  and  mountains,  and  which,  on  account  of  their  savage  cus- 
toms and  murderous  depredations,  became,  for  the  Aryas,  the  types  of 
those  evil  spirits  which  they  have  depicted  in  their  books.  At  the 
head  of  the  first  colony  there  must  have  been  a  prince  of  the  Arian 
nation  called  Manu,  whom  the  traditions  represent  as  the  father  of 
mankind." 

In  another  place,  in  a  note  to  E.V.  i.  33,  3  (p.  264,  vol.  i.  of  his 
work,  note  2),  the  same  author  writes  still  more  explicitly  as  regards 
the  point  under  consideration :  "  It  is  my  opinion  that  the  Indian 
colony  conducted  by  Manu,  which  established  itself  in  Aryavartta, 
came  from  the  countries  which  lie  to  the  west  of  the  Indus,  and  of 
which  the  general  name  was  Aria,  Ariana,  Hiran." 

Professor  Miiller  does  not,  as  far  as  I  am  aware,  anywhere  determine 
the  route  by  which  the  Arians  arrived  in  India,  more  precisely  than 
is  done  in  the  following  passages  (already  quoted  in  pp.  310,  f.) :  "At 
the  first  dawn  of  traditional  history  we  see  these  Arian  tribes  migrating 
across  the  snow  of  the  Himalaya,  southward  towards  the  'seven  rivers' 
(the  Indus,  the  five  rivers  of  the  Panjab,  and  the  SarasvatI),  aud  ever 
since  India  has  been  called  their  home." — Last  Eesults  of  the  Sanskrit 
Eesearches,  p.  129  ("Chips,"  i.  63);  and  Anc.  Sanskrit  Lit.,  p.  12. 
And  again,  at  p.  131  ("Chips,"  i.  p.  65);  Anc.  Sanskrit  Lit.,  p.  15, 
he  writes:  "After  crossing  the  narrow  passes  of  the  Hindukush  or 


CONFIRMED  BY  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS.  341 

the  Himalaya,  they  [the  southern  Arians]  conquered,  or  drove  before 
them  ....  the  aboriginal  inhabitants  of  the  Trans-Himalayan 
countries."  Some  remarks  on  the  same  subject  have  been  already 
quoted  (see  above,  p.  311)  from  his  "Last  Eesults  of  the  Turanian 
Eesearches,"  p.  340. 

Whatever  other  and  minor  differences  of  view  may  exist  between 
the  several  authorities  whom  I  have  last  cited,  they  are  all  of  one 
accord  at  least  in  regard  to  this  one  point,  that  India  is  not  the 
original  country  of  the  Hindus. 


Sect.  XI. — The  immigration  of  the  Indo-Arians  from  the  north-west 
rendered  probable  by  the  tenor  of  the  Vedio  hymns. 

The  immigration  of  the  Arians,  the  progenitors  of  the  Brahmanical 
Indians,  into  India  from  the  north-west,  is  further  rendered  probable 
by  the  fact  that  the  writers  of  the  Vedic  hymns  appear  to  be  most 
familiar  with  the  countries  lying  in  that  direction,  i.e.,  with  the  north- 
western parts  of  India  itself,  as  well  as  with  the  countries  bordering 
on,  or  beyond  the  Indus,  and  with  the  rivers  which  flow  through  those 
regions ;  while  the  countries  and  rivers  in  the  central  and  eastern 
parts  of  India  are  more  rarely  mentioned ;  and  no  allusion  whatever  is 
made  to  the  regions  of  the  south.  On  this  subject  I  borrow  the  fol- 
lowing remarks  from  Professor  Koth's  work  on  the  Lit.  and  Hist,  of 
the  Yeda,  p.  136 :  "  The  Sindhu  (Indus)  is  well  known  and  frequently 
celebrated  in  the  hymns  of  the  lligveda,  while  at  present  I  know  of 
only  one  hymn  in  which  the  Ganges  is  mentioned,  and  that  only  in  a 
subordinate  capacity.  This  passage  occurs  in  one  of  the  hymns  ascribed 
to  Sindhukshit,  son  of  Priyamedha  (x.  75,  5),  which  is  addressed  to 
the  Sindhu,  '  the  most  copious  of  streams,'  {apasam  apastama).  The 
other  rivers  are  solicited  to  regard  graciously  the  praises  of  the  poet, 
which  are  dedicated  to  the  Sindhu.'"  The  passage  is,  after  Taska 
(Nirukta,  ix.  26),  to  be  explained  thus  :  '  Ganga,  Yamuna,  SarasvatI, 
S'utudri,  with  the  ParushnI,  receive  graciously  my  hymn.  Marudvri- 
dha,  hear  with  the  Asikni,  the  Yitasta ;    Arjiklya,    hear  with  the 

i'5-  The  entire  liyinii  is  quoted  and  translated  in  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work, 
p.  343,  f. 


342        EIVEES  NAMED  IN  THE  HYMNS  OF  THE  EIGVEbA. 

SuBtoma.'  "  "'  {Imam  me  Gange  Yamune  Sarasvati  S'utudri  stomal 
eaehata  Parushni  a,  \  Asiknya  Marutkridhe  Vitastaya  Arjlklye  srinuhi 
a  Stishomaya  |) 

Another  passage  in  wliicli  the  Indus  is  mentioned  is  the  following, 
B.V.  i.  126,  1 :  Amanddn  sioman  prabhare  mamsha  Sindhav  adhi 
hhiyato  Bhdvyasya  \  Yo  me  sahasram  amimlta  savan  aturto  raja  sravaA 
iehhamdnah  \  "  With  my  intellect  I  produce  ardent  encomiums  upon 
Svanaya,  the  son  of  Bhavya,  who  dwells  on  the  Sindhu;  the  in- 
vincible prince,  who,  desirous  of  renown,  has  offered  through  me  a 
thousand  oblations."  In  the  7th  verse  of  the  same  hymn  we  find  a 
reference  which  indicates  famHiaiity  with  the  country  of  the  Gandharis 
and  its  sheep :  Sarva  'ham  asmi  roma&a  Gandharindm  ivaviha  \  "I 
am  all  hairy,  like  a  ewe  of  the  Gandharis."  Gandhara  is  placed  by 
Lassen  (in  the  map  of  Ancient  India  in  vol.  ii.  of  his  Indian  Anti- 
quities) to  the  west  of  the  Indus,  and  to  the  south  of  the  Cophen  or 
Eabul  river,  the  same  position  to  which  the  Gandaritis  of  the  ancients 
is  referred."'  In  a  note  to  his  Transl.  of  the  Vishnu  Purana,  vol.  ii., 
p.  174  (Dr.  Hall's  ed.).  Prof.  Wilson  writes  of  the  Gandharas:  "These 
are,  also,  a  people  of  the  north-west,  found  both  on  the  west  of  the  Indus 
and  in  the  Punjab."  The  word  Sindhu  also  occurs  in  the  following  pas- 
sages of  the  Eigveda,  viz.,  i.  94;  16;  i.  122,  6;  ii.  15,  6;  iv.  30,  12; 
V.  53,  9  ;  vii.  33,  3;  viii.  20,  25  ;  x.  64,  9.  It  is,  however,  diflcult  to 
say  whether  the  Indus  be  always  meant.     The  last  of  these  passages 

'16  Part  of  Yaska's note  (Nirukta,  ii.  26)  is  as  follows: — Imam  me  Gange  Yamune 
Sarasvati  S'utudri  Parushni  stomam  a  sevadham  Asiknya  cha  saha  Marudvridhe 

Vitastaya  cha  AryHciye  asrinuhi  Sushomaya  cha   iti  samastarthah  \ 

Iravatlm  Parushni  ity  ahuh  ....  Asihrii  asulela  asita  |  .  .  .  Marud- 
vridhah  sarvaA  nadyah  |  Marutah  enah  vardhayanti  |  .  .  .  Arjtldyam  Vipad 
ity  ahuh  \  (See  vol.  i.,  pp.  339  and  417,  note  210.)  "  The  entire  sense  is, '  Eeceive 
this  hymn,  0  Ganga,  Yamuna,  Sarasvati,  S'utudri,  Parushni,  and  Marudvridha 
along  with  the  Asikni,  and  Arjikiya  along  with  th  e  Vitasta  and  Sushoma.'  .  .  . 
Parushni  is  a  name  of  the  Iravati.  .  .  .  Asikni  means  '  black.'  .  .  .  All 
rivers  [may  be  called]  Marudvridha,  because  they  are  swollen  by  the  Maruts  .  .  . 
Arjikiya  is  a  name  of  the  VipSs'."  See  Eoth's  remarks  on  these  rivers,  in  his  Lit. 
and  Hist,  of  the  Veda,  pp.  136-140  ;  and  a  passage  which  will  be  quoted  from  Lassen 
in  the  text  further  on. 

'"  The  Gandarii  are  mentioned  by  Herodotus,  vii.  66,  along  with  the  Parthians, 
Chorasmians,  Sogdians,  and  Dadikse,  as  forming  part  of  the  army  of  Xerxes.  See 
the  Asiatic  Eesearches,  vol.  xv.  103,  ff. ;  the  Joum.  Eoyal  Asiatic  Society,  v.  17 ; 
and  Eawlinsou's  Herodotus,  iv.  216,  f. 


RIVERS  NAMED  IN  THE  HYMNS  OF  THE  RIGVEDA.         343 

(which,  occurs  in  a  hymn  to  the  Visve  devas)  is  as  follows,  K.V.  x. 
64,  9 :  Sarasvatl  Sarayu^  Sindhwr  urmibhir  maho  mahlr  avasd  "yantu 
vakshanih  \  devir  apo  matarah  sudayitnvo  gjiritwvat  payo  madhumat  no 
archata  |  "Let  the  Sarasvatl,  the  Sarayu,  the  Sindhu,  with  their 
waves;  let  the  great  [rivers]  come  swiftly,  strengthening  us  with 
their  succour.  Divine  waters,  mothers,  flowing,  impart  (?)  to  us  your 
waters  witti  butter  and  honey." 

The  verse  which  has  been  cited  above  from  the  Eigveda,  x.  75,  5, 
in  the  extract  from  Professor  Eoth's  work,  is  followed  by  another,"' 
in  which  the  names  of  several  other  rivers  are  mentioned,  viz.,  the 
Trishtama,  the  Susartu,  the  Easa,"'  the  SVetl,  the  Kubha,  the  GomatI, 
the  Krumu,  and  the  Mehatnu.  In  Eoth  and  Bohtlingk's  Lexicon, 
the  Kubha,  Gromati,  and  Krumu  are  set  down  as  being  affluents  of  the 
Indus.  ^™  That  they  were  really  so  is  rendered  probable  by  their  being 
mentioned  in  conjunction  with  that  river.  In  the  case  of  the  Kubha, 
the  probability  is  strengthened  by  its  name,  which  has  a  close  re- 
semblance to  that  of  the  Kophen,  or  Kabul  river,  which  falls  into  the 
Indus,  a  little  above  Attock  (see  the  passage  from  Weber's  Ind.  Liter., 
above  p.  339).  This  river  is  mentioned  again  in  E.V.  v.  53,  9 :  Ma 
vo  Easd  'nitdbha  Kubha  Krumwr  ma  vah  Sindhur  ni  rlramat  |  md  vah 

'^8  E.V.  I.  75,  6 : — Trishtamaya  prathctmam  yatave  sajuh  Susartva  Masaya  S'vetya 
tya  I  tvam  Sindho  Kubhwya  Qomattm  Krwinvm  Mehatiwa  saratham  yabhir  lyase  \ 
"  tTnite  first  in  thy  course  -with  the  Trishtama,  the  Susartu,  the  Rasa  and  the  S'vetl ; 
thou,  Sindhu,  [meetest]  the  Gomati  with  the  Kuhha,  the  Krumu  mth  the  Mehatnu, 
and  with  them  art  borne  onward  (as)  on  the  same  car." 

>i'  The  Rasa  is  considered  by  Dr.  Aufrecht,  in  his  explanation  of  R.V.  x.  108,  to 
denote  there  and  elsewhere  the  "  milky  way."  See  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental 
Society,  vol.  xiii.  p.  498.  Taska  merely  explains  it  as  meaning  a  river :  Raaa  nadl  | 
Nir.  xi.  25.  In  his  translation  of  Samaveda,  ii.  247  (=R.V.  ii.  41,  6),  Benfey 
translates  rasa  by  "  ocean."  In  his  Glossary  he  explains  it  of  "  a  particular  river 
which  separates  the  world  of  India  from  that  of  the  Pauls  (?) ;"  referring  to  E.V., 
X.  108.  In  R.V.  i.  112,  12,  he  explains  it  of  the  river  Rasa.  In  his  translation  of 
this  verse  in  Orient  und  Occident,  iii.  150,  he  makes  it  a  river  of  the  lower  world 
(unterteeU).  In  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's  Lexicon  the  Rasa  is  stated  to  be  the  name  of 
a  river,  in  R.V.,  i.  112,  12 ;  v.  53,  9 ;  x.  76,  6 ;  and  to  mean  "  a  mythical  stream 
which  flows  round  the  earth  and  sky  "  in  ix.  41,  6 ;  x.  108, 1,  f. ;  i.  121,  4 ;  v.  41, 15. 

I'o  In  his  Elucidations  (Erlauterungen)  of  the  Nirukta,  p.  43,  note.  Professor  Roth 
remarks :  "  The  Kophen  is  the  Kubha  of  the  Veda,  mentioned  in  R.V.  v.  53,  9,  and 
X.  75,  7.  If  we  identify  the  Krumu  and  Gomati  of  this  last  text,  with  the  Kurum 
and  Gomal  which  flow  into  the  Indus  from  the  west  (as  Lassen  proposes  in  a  letter), 
we  may  regard  the  rivers  whose  names  precede  [the  Trishtama,  Rasa,  S'vetl,  and 
Anitabha]  as  being  affluents  of  the  Indus  further  to  the  north  than  the  Kophen." 


344        EIVEES  NAMED  IN  THE  HYMNS  OP  THE  EIGVEDA. 

panshthdi  Sa/rayuh  pwrisMni  asme  it  sumnam  astu  vah  |  "  Let  not,  0 
Maruts,  the  Easa,  the  Anitabha,  the  Kubha,  the  Krumu  or  the  Sindhu 
arrest  you:  let  not  the  watery  Sarayu  stop  you:  let  the  joy  you 
impart  come  to  us."  Another  of  the  rivers  named  in  the  verse  pre- 
viously cited  (E.V.  x.  75,  7),  end  declared  by  Eoth  to  be  an  affluent 
of  the  Indus,  is  the  Gomatl.  It  is  not  necessary  that  we  should 
identify  this  river  with  the  Gromati  (Goomtee),  which  rises  to  the 
north-west  of  Oude  and  flows  past  Lukhnow,  though,  being  men- 
tioned along  with  the  Sarayu  (if,  indeed,  this  be  the  modern 
Surjoo),  it  may  be  the  same.  A  river  of  the  same  name  is  men- 
tioned again  in  E.V.  viii.  24,  30 :  Mho  apairiio  Valo  Gomatim 
anu  tishthati  \  "  This  Vala  dwells  afar  on  the  [banks  of 
the]  Gomatl." '''  It  is  quite  possible  that  the  names  of  the  rivers  in 
Oude  may  have  been  borrowed  from  some  streams  further  west."* 
Another  river,  the  Suvastu,  which  may  be  an  affluent  of  the  Indus, 
is  mentioned  in  E.V.,  viii.  19,  37 :  Suvastvah  adhi  tugvani  \  These 
words  are  quoted  in  Nirukta,  iv.  15,  and  explained  thus:  Suvastur 
nadi  \  tugma  tlrtham  Ihmati  \  "  Suvastu  is  a  river ;  tugma  means 
a  ferry."  On  this  passage  Eoth  observes,  Erlauterungen,  p.  43 : 
"  The  bard  Sobhari  is  recounting  the  presents  which  he  received  from 
Trasadasyu,  son  of  Purukutsa,  on  the  banks  of  the  Suvastu.  In  the 
Mahabharata,  vi.  333,'*^  the  Suvastu  is  connected  with  the  Gauri. 
Now,  according  to  Arrian,  Indica,  4,   11,"*  the  Soastos  and  Garoias 

"1  Compare  R.V.  v.  61,  19. 

"*  There  is  a  stream  called  Gom^ti  in  Kemaon,  which  must  be  distinct  from  the 
riyer  in  Oude,  as  the  latter  rises  in  the  plains. 

123  In  the  list  of  rivers  in  the  description  of  Jambukhanda.  The  words  are : 
Vastum  Swoastum  Gaurlm  cha  ■  Xampanam  sa-Hiramaitm  |  "  The  Vastu,  the 
Suvastu,  the  Gauri,  the  Kampana,  and  the  Hiranvati." 

'"  Km(J>V  8c  ^y  IleuKeAai^TiSi,  afia  Si  &yav  MaKaiiT6i'  tc  koI  SSaarov  Kai  Ta^fiolav, 
^kSi5o?  is  Thv  iMv.  "  The  Kophen  unites  with  the  Indus  in  PeukSlseetis,  bringing 
with  it  the  Malantus,  the  Soastus,  and  the  Garroeas."  Professor  Wilson  (Ariana 
Ant.  pp.  183,  190,  194)  thinks  these  two  last  names  really  denote  one  and  the  same 
river.  "Now  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  by  the  Kophen  is  to  be  understood  the 
Kabul  River ;  for  Arrian  says,  that  having  received  the  Malamantus,  Suastus,  and 
Garceus,  it  mixes  with  the  Indus,  in  the  country  of  Peukelaotis ;  and  the  latter  part 
of  Alexander's  operations  west  of  the  Indus,  shortly  before  he  crosses  that  river,  are 
carried  on  in  the  same  district  along  the  Indus  and  the  Cophen." —'Wilson,  Ariana 
Ant.,  p.  183.  "  The  united  stream  [of  the  Punjkora  and  Sewat]  is  called  either  the 
Punikora  or  Sewat  Eiver ;  and  this  may  explain  why  Arrian,  in  his  Indica,  speaks 
erroneously  of  a  Suastus  as  well  as  a  Garceus,  whilst  in  Ptolemy  we  have  no  other 


EIVESS  MENTIONED  IN  THE  HYMNS.  345 

flow  into  the  Kophen.  From  comparing  these  two  passages,  it  results 
with  tolerable  certainty  that  the  Suvastu  is  the  same  as  the  modem 
Suwad,  a  stream  which  flows  into  the  Kabul  river  from  the  north, 
after  first  joining  the  Panjkora." 

Eetuming  now  to  E.V.  x.  75,  6,  and  taking  first  the  most  westerly 
streams  (next  to  the  Indus)  there  specified,  we  come  (1)  to  the  Vitasta 
or  Behat,  (2)  the  Asiknl  or  Chenab  (Akesines),  (3)  the  ParushnI, 
Iravatl,  or  Eavee,  (4)  the  Arjikiya,  Vipas,  or  Beeas,  and  (5)  the 
S'utudri,  or  Sutlej.  Taska,  as  we  have  seen,  identifies  the  ParushnI 
with  the  Iravatl,  and  the  Arjikiya  with  the  Yipa^;  Professor  Eoth 
considers  the  Asiknl  to  be  the  same  as  the  Chenab  or  Akesines ;  and 
there  is  no  doubt  that  the  Vitasta  is  the  Hydaspes,  and  that  the  S'utdri 
is  the  Sutlej.  "We  have,  consequently,  in  this  passage  an  enumeration 
of  the  rivers  of  the  Panjab.  The  Asiknl  is  again  mentioned  in  K.V. 
viii.  20,  25  ;  the  ParushnI  in  E.V.  vii.  18,  8,  9,  and  viii.  63,  15  ;  the 
S'utudri  in  iii.  33,  1 ;  and  the  Vipa^  in  iii.  33,  1,  3,  and  iv.  30,  11. 

The  other  rivers  named  in  the  passage  so  often  referred  to,  E.V.  x. 
75,  5,  6,  are  the  SarasvatI,  the  Ganga,  and  the  Tamuna.  The  follow- 
ing are  some  of  the  most  remarkable  passages  in  which  the  SarasvatI 
is  celebrated.  In  iii.  23,  4,  it  is  thus  mentioned  along  with  the 
DrishadvatI  (with  which  Manu,  ii.  17,  also  associates  it)  and  the 
Apaya  :  iV»  tva  dadhe  vare  a,  prithivyah  Ildyaspade  sudinatve  ahnam  I 
Drishadvatyam  manushe  Apaydyam  Sarasvatya&  revad  Agne  didihi  | 

rirer  than  the  Suastus  described." — Ibid. p.  190.  "Alexander  crossed,  according  to 
Arrian's  narrative,  four  riyers  before  he  reached  the  Indus;  and  these,  the  Kophen, 
Khoes,  Enaspla,  and  Garoens,  we  have  still  in  the  Punjshir,  Alishung,  Khonar,  and 
Punjkora.  .  .  .  Thus  even  Arriam  is  a  better  authority  as  an  historian  than  as  a 
geographer,  for  he  describes  in  the  latter  character  the  Kophen  as  bringing  with  it 
to  the  Indus,  the  Malamantus,  Suastos,  and  Garoeus ;  two  of  which  he  does  not 
name  at  all  in  his  narrative,  and  of  which  the  third  is  probably  the  same  as  the 
second." — Ibid.  p.  194.  Lassen,  on  the  other  hand,  holds  that  Ptolemy  is  in  error. 
"It  must  surprise  us,"  he  remarks  (Ind.  Ant.,  iii.  129),  "that,  of  the  rivers  of 
Eastern  Kabul,  Ptolemy  mentions  only  the  Suastos,  and  passes  over  the  Garoias  [the 
ancient  name' was  Gauri,  the  present  is  Panjkora]  in  silence,  though  this  river  must 
have  been  known  to  him  from  the  accounts  of  the  writers  of  the  Macedonian  age, 
who,  however,  are  wrong  in  making  the  Suastos  to  unite  not  with  it,  but  with  the 
Kophen.  This  is  the  more  surprising,  as  Ptolemy  is  acquainted  with  the  region 
called  Goryaia  after  that  river.  ,  .  .  Ptolemy  is  thus  misled  into  making  the 
Suastos  rise  too  far  to  the  north."  See  also  Lassen's  Ind.  Ant.  ii.  668-9.  In  any 
case,  the  existence  of  a  river  in  the  Kabul  country,  caUed  Suastus  at  the  date  of 
Alexander's  expedition,  is  undoubted. 

VOL.  II.  23 


346  EIVEES  NAMED  IN  THE  HYMNS. 

"On  an  auspicious  day  I  place  thee  on  the  most  sacred  spot  of  I]a 
[the  earth].  Shine,  0  opulent  Agni,  in  the  assemhly  of  men  on  the 
banks  of  the  Drishadvati,  the  Apaya,  the  Sarasvatl."  In  E.V.  vi. 
61,  2,  the  same  river  is  thus  magnified:  lyam  iushmebhir  lisa-Tcha 
ivdrty'at  tdnu  girlnam  tavishehMr  urmihhih  |  pardvata-ghmm  cwase 
smriktibhiJi,  Sarasvaiim  a  visasema  dhiUhhih  \  "  By  her  force,  and  her 
impetuous  waves  she  has  broken  down  the  sides  of  the  mountains, 
like  a  man  digging  lotus  fibres.  For  succour  let  us,  with  praises  and 
hymns,  invoke  Sarasvatt  who  sweeps  away  her  banks.""'  In  verse  13 
of  the  same  hymn  the  same  epithet  Apdsdm  apastama,  "most  copious 
of  streams,"  which  is  applied  to  the  Sindhu  in  E.V.  x.  75,  7  (see 
above,  p.  341),  is  also  assigned  to  the  Sarasvati. 

Hymns  95  and  96  of  the  seventh  book  of  the  Eigveda  are  devoted 
to  the  praises  of  the  Sarasvatl  and  her  male  correlative  the  Sarasvat. 
The  first  and  part  of  the  second  verse  of  the  former  hymn  are  as 
follows :  Pra  hshodaaa  dhayasa  sasre  eshd  Sarasvati  dharumm  ayasi 
puh  I  pra  haladhand  rathy  eva  yati  vUvah  apo  mahina  sindhu/r  any&h  \  eka 
achetat  Sarasvati  nadmam  iuchir  yatl  giriihyah  a  samudrat  |  "  This 
Sarasvati  has  flowed  on  with  a  protecting  current,  a  support,  an  iron 
barrier.  This  stream  rushes  on  like  a  charioteer,  in  her  majesty 
outrunning  all  other  rivers."'  Sarasvati  is  known  as  the  one  river, 
flowing  on  pure  from  the  mountains  to  the  sea."'" 

The  Jumna  is  mentioned  in  two  other  passages  of  the  Eigveda 
besides  x.  75,  5.    In  v.  52,  17,  reference  is  made  to  property  in  cows 

125  In  reference  to  this  verse,  Taaka  observes,  ii.  23  :  Tatra  "  Sm-asvatV  ity  etasya 
nodi-vat  devatd-vaehcha  niffomah  bhcmanti  |  .  .  .  Atha  etad  nadt-vat  |  "  There 
are  texts  which  speak  of  SarasTati  both  as  a  river  and  as  a  goddess.  1  .  .  In  the 
following  she  is  referred  to  as  a  river."  He  then  quotes  the  verse  before  us  ;  and 
explains  (ii.  24)  pardvata-ghtm  by  paravara-ghatimm  "destroying  the  further  and 
the  near  bank."  See  also  the  commentary  on  the  Taitt.  Br.  vol.  ii.  p.  842  (Bibl. 
Indica).  This  interpretation  is  condemned  in  B.  and  E.'s  Lexicon,  *.  v.,  where  the 
sense  is  said  to  be,  either  (a)  "  striking  the  distant  (demon),"  or  (4)  "  striking  from, 
or  at,  a  distance." 

"6  See  the  translation  of  this  verse  in  Benfey's  Glossary  to  the  Samaveda,  p.  167, 
under  the  word  rathi. 

w  Langlois,  vol.  iii.,  p.  241,  note  13,  thinks  that  Sarasvatl  in  this  hymn  stands, 
not  for  a  river,  but  for  "  the  goddess  of  sacrifice,"  with  her  libations.  "  These  liba- 
tions form  a  river,  which  flows  from  the  mountains,  where  the  sacrifice  is  performed, 
and  where  the  soma  plant  is  collected.  This  river  flows  into  the  tamudra  (sea), 
which  is  the  vessel  destined  to  receive  the  libations." 


QUOTATION  FROM  LASSEN  ABOUT  THESE  RITERS.  347 

and  horses  on  the  banks  of  the  Yamuna;™  and  in  vii.  18,  19,  it  is 
said  that  the  "Yamuna  protected  [or  gladdened}  Indra.""'  I  have 
found  a  reference  to  the  Ganga  in  one  other  passage  besides  x.  75, 
5,  viz.,  in  vi.  46,  31,''°  where  the  adjective  gangya,  "belonging  to 
the  Ganga,"  occurs.  But  the  Eigveda  contains  no  hymn  devoted  to 
the  celebration  of  the  Ganga,  such  as  we  find  appropriated  to  the 
Sindhu  and  Sarasvatl. 

The  Sarayu  is  also  referred  to  in  three  passages  in  the  E.V.  iv.  30, 
18,  V.  53,  9,  and  X.  64,  9.  The  first  of  these  texts  runs  thus:  Uta 
tya  sadyah  Arya  Sarayor  Indra  pdratah  \  Arndohitrwratha  wvadhih  \ 
"  Thou  hast  straightway  slain  these  two  Aryas,  Arna  and  Chitraratha, 
on  the  other  side  of  the  Sarayu."  The  second  and  third  have  been 
already  quoted  in  pp.  343,  f.  The  Sarayu  named  in  these  passages, 
particularly  the  last  two,  may  be  different  from  the  river  of  the  same 
name  which  now  flows  along  the  north-eastern  frontier  of  Oude,  as  it 
is  mentioned  in  connexion  with  rivers  all  of  which  appear  to  be  in  the 
Panjab.  But  it  is  not  absolutely  necessary  to  suppose  this,'"  as  we  shall 
presently  see  that  one  of  the  Vedio  rishis  was  acquainted  with  Kikata 
or  Behar.  In  the  Eigveda  we  have  no  mention  made  of  the  rivers  of 
the  south,  which  have  in  later  ages  become  so  renowned  in  Hindustan 
for  their  sanctity,  the  Narmada,  the  Godaverl,  and  the  Kaverl. 


[On  the  subject  treated  in  the  preceding  pages,  the  second 
edition  of  Lassen's  Indian  Antiquities  contains,  at  p.  643,  vol.  i., 
some  new  matter  which  I  translate :  "  The  names  of  the  rivers 
mentioned  in  the  hymns  of  the  E.V.  furnish  us  with  the  means 
of  arriving  at  exact  conclusions  regarding  the  abodes  of  the  Arian 
Indians  at  the  time  when  they  were  composed.  The  Ganga  and 
the  Yamuna  are  only  mentioned  once  in  the  tenth  book.  In  an 
earlier  book  the  Drishadvati  too  is  only  once  named :  much  oftener 

'"8  R.V.  T.  52,  17 :  TamimayStm  adhi  irutam  vd  radho  gmyam  mrije  ni  radho 
aivya/yn  mrije  \ 

"*'  R.V.  vii.  18,  19  :  Avad  Indram  Yamuna  ityadi  ] 

'30  See  Roth,  Litt.  und  Gesch.  des  Weda,  p.  136  ;  and  above  p.  341.  The  words 
are :  Uruh  kaksho  na  Gangyah  \  Roth,  aub  voce  kaksha,  says,  the  sense  of  the 
word  kaksha  is  uncertain.  Langlois  does  not  translate  it.  Wilson  misapprehends 
Sayana's  explanation. 

131  See,  however,  the  opinion  of  Lassen,  as  quoted  below. 


348  QUOTATION  FROM  LASSEN  ABOUT 

the  Sarasvati;  but  most  frequently  of  all  the  Sindhu  (Indus)  with 
its  aflSuents,  some  of  which  are  designated  by  their  older  names, 
viz.,  Asikni  for  the  Chandrabhaga,  Marudvridha  for  the  same  stream 
after  its  confluence  with  the  Vitasta,  Urunjira  for  the  Iravati,  and 
ParushnI  for  the  Vipasa.  (The  principal  passage  is  E.V.  x.  75.)  The 
three  western  affluents  of  the  Indus,  which  are  now  called  Gomal, 
Eurrum,  and  Kabul,  are  named  in  these  hymns  GomatI,  KJrumu,  and 
Kubha  respectively  :  the  last  word  has,  as  is  well  known,  been  turned 
by  the  Greeks  into  Kophen.  The  Anitabha,  Easa,  and  SVetl  must 
also  be  regarded  as  affluents  of  the  same  river  (K.V.,  v.  53,  9  ;  x.  75, 
6).  .  .  .  Before  I  proceed  further,  I  think  it  fit  to  remark  that  it 
is  not  the  fault  of  the  learned  geographer  £M.  Yivien  de  St.  Martin], 
to  whom  we  owe  a  valuable  dissertation  on  the  Vedio  geography,  but 
of  the  French  translator  [of  the  E.V.,  the  late  M.  Langlois],  if  the 
former  has  been  misled  to  assume  the  existence  of  three  rivers  which 
have  no  reality.  Sushoma  and  Arjikiya  signify  vessels  which  are  used 
in  the  preparation  of  the  Soma.'''*  The  assumption  that  there  is  a 
river  called  Trishtama  is  founded  on  an  ignorance  of  the  language. 
In  the  verse  in  question  (E.Y.,  x.  75,  6)  'trishta,'  'harshly  sounding,' 
is  to  be  referred  to  the  Sindhu,  whilst  'amaya'  is  the  instrumental 
singular  feminine  from  the  pronoun  '  ama.' ''' 

"  The  following  additional  rivers  are  named  in  the  E.V.,  the  An^u- 
mati,  the  Hariyupiya,  and  the  Tavyavati,  but  only  once  (vi.  27,  5,  6  ; 
viii.  85,  13,  ff.),  and  in  such  a  way  that  their  situation  cannot  be 
fixed.  Finally,  the  Sarayu  is  thrice  named.  In  one  place  (iv. 
30,  17)  it  is  said  that  by  the  help  of  Indra  Turvasu  and  Tadu 
crossed  this  stream.''*  In  the  second  passage  (x.  64,  9)  it  is  named 
in  connexion  with  the  Sarasvati  and  Sindhu;  and  in  the  third 
(v.  53,  9),  again,  in  connexion  with  these  two,  and  as  well  as  with 
several  affluents  of  the  Indus   and  the  Tamuna.      These  data  do 

132  In  proof  of  this  Lassen  refers  to  Both,  on  the  Lit.  and  Hist,  of  the  Veda, 
p.  137.  See  also  Roth's  lUust.  of  Nirukta,  p.  131,  and  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth's 
Lexicon,  s.v.  arjikiya :  also  Benfey's  Glossary  to  S.V.,  s.v.  ^aranyayat. 

133  Trishtama  is  giten  as  the  name  of  a  river  in  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth'a  Lexicon ; 
and  this  interpretation  is  not  withdrawn  in  the  "  additions  and  improTements,"  in 

TOl.  V. 

134  The  Sarayu  is  not  named  in  v.  17,  but  in  v.  18,  where  Indra  is  said  to  have 
slain  two  Aryas,  Arna  and  Chitraratha,  on  the  other  side  of  this  river.    See  p.  347. 


THE  EIVERS  MENTIONED  IN  THE  HYMNS.  349 

not  suffice  to  show  what  river  is  meant.  Perhaps  it  is  an  affluent  of 
the  Sarasvati ;  this  river  is  in  any  case  to  be  distinguished  from  the 
well-kno-wn  affluent  of  the  Gangs.  From  this  survey  it  is  clear  that 
at  the  time  of  the  composition  of  the  Eigveda  the  Arian  Indians  dwelt 
chiefly  in  eastern  Kabulistan  and  in  the  Panjab  as  far  as  the  Sarasvati. 

"If  we  hold  the  Anitabha,  the  Easa,  and  the  Sveti, — as  from  the 
connexion  we  must, — for  the  modern  Abu  Sin,  Burrindu,  and  Sudum, 
the  Arian  Indians  were  at  that  time  already  in  possession  of  a  tract 
on  the  upper  Indus.  The  conjecture  that  by  the  Easa  is  meant  the 
Suvastu,  and  by  the  S'veti  the  Koas  of  the  ancients,  cannot  be  justified. 
Whether  we  are  to  assign  to  the  Arian  Indians  a  tract  in  western 
Kabulistan  also,  depends  on  the  ascertainment  of  the  modern  names 
of  the  three  rivers  mentioned  in  the  E.V.,  which  have  not  yet  been 
identified.  It  was  only  in  the  period  when  the  tenth  book  of  this 
collection  of  hymns  was  composed  that  the  Arian  people  had  travelled 
further  east  and  reached  the  Ganga. 

"  The  Atharvaveda  represents  to  us  an  important  advance  in  the 
diffusion  of  the  Arian  Indians.  The  Bahllkas  and  Gandharas  appear 
in  the  Hght  of  peoples  living  at  a  distance ;  so,  too,  the  countries  of 
Magadha  and  Anga.  It  may  be  hence  concluded  that  at  that  period 
the  Arians  had  not  spread  further  than  to  north-western  Bengal,  on 
the  south  bank  of  the  Ganges.™  Eegarding  the  diffusion  of  the 
Brahmanical  religion,  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana  has  preserved  a  re- 
markable legend,  of  which  the  essential  import  is  as  follows,"  etc. 
Lassen  then  quotes  the  passage  (i.  4,  1,  10,  ff.),  which  will  be  cited 
further  on.  J  

We  have  already  seen  (p.  328)  that  the  Himalaya  mountains  are 
mentioned  in  the  Atharvaveda.  In  a  fine  hymn,  the  121st  of  the 
10th  mandala  of  the  E.V.,  also,  we  have  the  following  verse,  x.  121, 
4 :  Yasya  ime  Bimmwnto  mahitva  yasya  samud/ram  rasaya  saha  dhuh  | 
"  He  whose  greatness  these  snowy  mountains,  and  the  sea  with  the 
aerial  river  declare,"™  etc.     But  no  allusion  to  the  Vindhya  range, 

135  The  author  here  refers  to  Both  on  the  Lit.  and  Hist,  of  the  Veda,  pp.  37,  ff., 
where  some  verses  of  A.V.,  v.  22,  are  quoted,  translated,  and  illustrated.    See  p.  361. 

"'  See  Miiller's  translation  in  Bunsen's  Gott  in  der  Geschichte,  part  ii.,  p.  107. 
The  Himalaya,  or  snowyrange,  is  also  mentioned,  A.V.  xii.  1,  11 :  Girayas  te  par- 
vatah  himmanto  ivranyam  te  pritMvi  syoncm,  astu  |  "  May  thy  mountains  be 
snowy,  0  earth,  and  thy  wilderness  beautiful," 


350  KIKATAS  mentioned  IN  THE  EIGVEDA. 

which  runs  across  the  central  parts  of  India,  is  to  be  found  in  the 
Rigveda. 

The  following  text  from  the  E.V.  shows  that  the  author  of  the 
hymn  (said  to  be  Visvamitra)  knew  something  of  the  countries  to  the 
eastward  as  far  as  Eikata  or  Behar,  R.V.  iii.  53,  14 :  Kim  ie  hrimmti 
Klkateshi  gwoo  na  aiira'fh  duhre  na  tapanti  gharmam  \  a  no  hkara 
Pramagandasya  vedo  naieha^akham  Maghman  randhxya  nah  |  "  What 
are  thy  cows  doing  among  the  Kikatas?  They  yield  no  milk  for 
oblations ;  and  they  heat  no  fire.  Bring  us  the  wealth  of  Pramaganda 
[or  the  usurer] ;  and  subdue  to  us,  0  Maghavat  (Indra),  the  degraded 
man  (naiohasakha)."  Taska  explains  Kikata  as  "  a  country  inhabited 
by  people  who  were  not  Aryas, "  Nirukta  vi.  32 :  Kikato  ndma  dek 
' naryanivasah  \  ^^  The  word  Kihata  is  given  in  the  vocabulary  called 
Trikanda^esha,  as  equivalent  to  Magadha.  In  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's 
Dictionary,  the  following  lines  are  quoted  from  the  Bhagavata  Purana, 
i.  3,  24  :  Tatah  kalau  sanvpravritte  aammohdya  sura-d/vishdm  \  Buddho 
ndmdnjana-sutah  Kikateshu  hhavishyaii  \  "Then,  when  the  Kali  age 
has  begun,  a  person  named  Buddha,  son  of  Anjanaj  will  be  born 
among  the  Kikatas,  in  order  to  delude  the  enemies  of  the  gods  (the 
Asuras)."  The  commentator  on  the  Bhag.  Pur.  explains  the  Kikatas 
by  madhye  Qayd-pradese  \  "in  the  country  of  Gaya."  Again,  Bhag. 
Pur.,  vii.  10,  18,  it  is  said:  Yatra  yatra  eha  mad-bhaktah  praidntah 
samadarsinah  \  sddhcmah  samuddchards  te  puycmte  'pi  Klkatdh  \  "  In 
every  place  where  those  who  are  devoted  to  me,  who  are  calm,  who 
regard  all  things  as  alike,  who  are  holy  and  virtuous,  are  found,  the 

"'  Sayana  gives  an  altemative  explanation  of  kVcata,  borrowed  from  a  hint  in 
Taska :  Yadvd  "  kriyabhir  yaga-dana-homa-lahshanabhih  kim  phalishyati "  ity 
asraddadhandh  pratyuta  "pibafa  khadata  ayam  eva  loko  na  parah"  iti  vadanto 
nastikah  klkatah  \  "Or  the  Kikatas  are  atheists,  who,  being  destitute  of  faith,  say, 
'  what  fruit  will  result  from  sacrifices,  alms,  or  oblations  ?  rather  eat  and  drink,  for 
there  is  no  other  world  but  this.' "  In  Sayana's  introduction  to  the  Eigveda 
(Miiller's  edit.  vol.  i.  p.  7),  an  aphorism  of  the  Mimansa,  with  a  comment,  is  quoted, 
in  which  an  objector  demurs  to  the  eternity  of  the  Veda,  because  objects  and  persons 
who  existed  in  time  are  mentioned  in  it.  In  the  objector's  statement,  Naichas'akha 
is  spoken  of  as  a  city,  and  Pramaganda  as  a  king :  "  Kim  te  krimanti  Kikateahv  " 
iti  mantre  kikato  noma  Janapadah  amnatah  \  tatha  Naichaaakham  noma  nagaram 
Pramagcmdo  noma  raja  ity  ete  'rthah  anityah  amnatah  \  "  In  the  Terse,  '  what  do 
thy  cows  among  the  Kikatas,  etc.,'  a  country  named  Kikata  is  recorded,  together 
with  a  city  called  Naichadakha  and  a  king  called  Pramaganda;  aU  which  are  non- 
eternal  objects." 


TRIBES  MENTIONED  IN  THE  ATHARVAVBDA.  351 

men  [of  that  country]  are  purified,  even  if  they  be  Kikatas."  Professor 
Weber,  in  his  Ind.  Stud.  i.  186,  states  his  opinion  that  the  Kikatas 
were  not  (as  Taska  tell  us)  a  non-Arian  tribe,  but  a  people  who,  like 
the  Vratyas,  were  of  Arian  origin,  though  they  did  not  observe  Arian 
rites;  and  they  may,  he  thinks,  have  been  Buddhists,  or  the  fore- 
runners of  Buddhism. 

From  these  passages  there  seems  to  be  no  doubt  that  the  Kikatas 
were  a  people  who  lived  in  Magadha  or  Behar. 

The  following  verses  from  one  of  the  mantras  of  the  Atharvaveda, 
V.  22,  quoted  and  explained  by  Professor  Both  in  his  Lit.  and  Hist,  of 
the  Veda,  pp.  37-42,  may  tend  to  show  what  were  the  limits  of  the 
country  occupied  by  the  Aryas  at  the  date  of  its  composition.  These 
limits  coincide  in  one  direction  with  those  indicated  in  the  preceding 
passage  from  the  Eigveda,  in  which  the  Kikatas  are  mentioned. 
This  mantra  contains  an  invocation  to  Takman,  apparently  a  per- 
sonified cutaneous  disease,  who  is  supplicated  to  withdraw  to  certain 
other  tribes,  whose  names  are  specified,  and  whom  we  may  there- 
fore with  probability  conclude  to  have  been  regarded  as  without  the 
Arian  pale,  though  not  necessarily  non-Arians.  A.V.,  v.  22,  verses 
5,  7,  8,  12,  14  :  5  I  Oko  asya  Mmamamto  oh)  asya  Mahavrishah]  yavcy 
jatas  tahmams  tavan  asi  Bahliheshu  nyocharah  \  7  \  Takman  Mujavato 
gachha  Bahlikan  va  parastarai^  \  S'udrdm  ichha  prapharyam  tarn  Takman 
vi  iva  dhunuhi  |  8  |  Mahavrishan  Mujaeato  landhu  addhi  paretya  \  prai- 
tani  tahmane  brumo  anyahshetrdni  va  imd  \  12  |  Takman  Ihratra  lala- 
sena  avasrd  kdsikayd  saha  \  pdmnd  bhrdtrivyena  saha  gacKhdmum  aranam 
janam  \  14  |  Gmdhdrihhyo  Mujaoadbhyo  Angebhyo  Magadhebhyah  \ 
praishyam  janam  iva  sevadhim  taimanam  pari  dadmasi  |  5.  "His 
(Takman's)  abode  are  the  Mujavats,  his  abode  the  Mahavrishas.  As 
soon  as  thou  art  bom,  0  Takman,  thou  sojoumest  among  the  BahUkas. 
7.  Go,  Takman,  to  the  Mujavats,  or  far  away  to  the  Bahlikas.  Choose 
the  female  S'udra  for  food;  and  shake  her.  8.  Passing  (us)  by,  0 
friend,  devour  the  Mahavrishas  and  the  Mujavats.  We  point  out  to 
Takman  these  or  those  alien  regions.  12.  Takman,  along  with  thy 
brother  Balasa,  and  with  thy  sister  Kasika  (cough),  and  with  thy 
nephew  Paman,  depart  to  that  foreign  people.  14.  We  transfer 
Takman  as  a  servant,  and  as  a  treasure,  to  the  Gandharis,  the 
.  Mujavats,  the  Angias,  and  the  Magadhas." 


352  MtJAVATS,  BAHLIKAS,  AND  OTHER  TEIBES. 

The  Mujavats  are  again  meationed  in  the  Vajasaneyi-sanhita,  3,  61, 
as  follows :  Mat  te  Rudra  avasam  tena  paro  Muja/eato  atlhi  |  matata- 
dhamd  pindMvasah  krittivasdlf  ahimsan  nah  kwo  atlhi  |  "^  "  This,  0 
Eudra,  is  thy  food;  with  it  depart  beyond  the  Mujavats.  With  thy 
bow  unbent,  and  concealed  from  View,  and  clad  in  a  skin,  pass  beyond, 
uninjuring  us  and  propitious." 

The  Mujavats  being  mentioned  along  with  the  Bahlikas,  a  Bactrian 
race,  and  with  the  Gandharis  (see  above,  p.  342)  may,  as  Roth  thinks, 
be  a  hUl  tribe  in  the  north-west  of  India ;  and  the  Mahavrishas  may 
belong  to  the  same  region."' 

The  Angas  and  Magadhas  mentioned  in  verse  13  are,  on  the  contrary, 
tribes  living  in  south  Behar,  and  the  country  bordering  on  it  to  the 
west.  We  have  thus  in  that  verse  two  nations  situated  to  the  north- 
west, and  two  to  the  south-east,  whom  we  may  suppose,  from  the 
maledictions  pronounced  on  them,  to  have  been  hostUe,  or  alien  tribes, 

'28  MujaTat  is  explained  by  the  commentator  on  the  V.S.,  as  the  name  of  a  moun- 
tain, the  place  of  Eudra's  abode :  Mujavm  nama  kasehit  parvato  JSudrasya  vasa- 
sthanam  \  This  is  apparently  a  later  idea.  Compare  the  Mahabharata,  Sauptika- 
parva,  785,  Evam  uktva  sa  sakrodho  jagama  vimmmh  Bhcmah  \  girer  Mmijcmatah 
padaih  tapas  taptum  mahatapah]  "Bhava  (S'iva)  having  so  said,  went  away  angry  and 
disturbed,  to  the  quarter  of  the  hill  Munjavat,  to  perform  austerity,  the  great 
devotee  ;"  and  the  A^vamedhika  parva,  180 :  Girer  Rimmatah  prishthe  Mtmjavan 
namaparvatah  |  tapyate  yatra  bhagmams  tapo  nityam  Umapatih\  "On  the  heights 
of  the  Himavat  mountain  there  is  a  hill  called  Mnnjavat,  where  the  divine  lord  of 
Uma  (S'iva)  performs  continual  austerity."  The  commentator  on  the  S'atapatha- 
brahmana  says  it  is  the  "  Northern  Mountain,"  udichyah  parvatah  |  The  S'atapa- 
tha-brahmana  (ii.  6,  2,  17,)  thus  comments  on  the  text  of  the  Vaj.  S.,  after  quoting 
it :  Avasena  vai  adhvanam  yanti  \  tad  enam  aavasam  eva  anvavarjati  yatra  yatra 
asya  charanam  tad  anu  \  atra  ha  vai  agya  paro  Miija/oadbhyas  charanam  |  tastnad 
aha"paro  Mujavato  'tthi"  iti  "  avatata-dhamva  pinSTcmasah"  ity  "  ahimsannah 
dim  'tthi"  ity  |  eva  etad  aha  " krittivasah"  iti  \  nishvapayaty  eva  enam  etat  \ 
svapann  »  hi  na  ka/ncha/na  hinasti  \  tasmad  aha  **  krittivasah"  iti  j  *'  Men  go  on 
their  way  with  provision.  He  therefore  sends  him  (Rudra)  off  with  provision, 
wherever  he  has  to  go.  Here  his  journey  is  beyond  the  Mujavats ;  hence  he  says 
'  pass  beyond  the  Mujavats ;'  '  vrith  bow  unbent  and  concealed,'  '  uninjuring  us  and 
propitious,  pass  beyond.'  He  adds  '  clad  in  a  skin.'  This  lulls  him  to  sleep ;  for 
whUe  sleeping  he  injures  nobody.  Wherefore  he  says  '  clad  in  a  skin.' "  A  deriva- 
tive of  the  word  Mujavat  occurs  also  in  the  E.V.  x.  34,  1  :  Somasya  iva  Maujava- 
tasya  bhakshah  \  "  Like  a  draught  of  the  soma  produced  on  Mujavat,  or  among  the 
Mujavats."  Taska,  Nir.  9,  8,  explains  the  word  thus:  Maiy'oAiato  Mujavati  jatah\ 
Mujamn  parvatah,  " '  Maujavatalji '  means  produced  on  Mujavat :  Mujavat  is  a 
mountain." 

"°  On  the  Bahikas  and  Bahlikas,  see  Lassen,  Zeitsch.  1840,  p.  194 ;  and  for  1839, 
p.  fi2,  ff. 


INTEECOUESE  OF  THE  AEIANS  WITH  THE  GANDHAEAS.        353 

who  lived  on  the  borders  of  Brahmanical  India,  and  to  have  been 
beyond  its  boundaries  at  the  time  this  incantation  was  composed. 
(Eoth,  Lit.  and  Hist,  of  the  Veda,  p.  42.) 

It  does  not,  however,  follow  that  the  tribes  who,  in  the  Atharva- 
veda,  are  spoken  of  as  if  they  were  hostile,  or  alien,  were  really  of  a 
non-Arian  origin.     (See  above,  p.  351.) 

Thus,  the  Arians  appear  in  later  times  to  have  been  in  communica- 
tion with  the  Gandharas.  In  the  S'atapatha-brahmana  allusion  is 
made  to  a  royal  sage  called  Svarjit,  son  of  Nagnajit,  the  Gandhara, 
who  had  expressed  an  opinion  on  the  nature  of  breath  or  life ;  and 
although  his  view  was  not  regarded  as  authoritative,  stiU  the  very  fact 
of  its  being  quoted,  and  its  author  mentioned  as  a  Kajanya,  proves  his 
Arian  origin.  This  is  the  passage,  S'at.-Br.  viii.  1,  4,  10  :  Atha  ha 
sma  aha  Svarjid  Nagnajitah  \  NagnaoMA  va  Oandhdrah  |  •  .  .  Yat  aa 
tad  wvacha  Rajanyaiandhw  iva  tv  eva  tad  macha  \  "Further  Svarjit, 
son  of  Nagnajit,  said.  TSow  Kagnajit  was  a  Gandhara.  .  .  .  This 
which  he  said,  he  spake  as  a  mere  Kajanya."  Nagnajit,  the  Gandhara, 
is  also  mentioned  in  the  Ait.-Br.,  vii.  34,  as  one  of  the  persons  who 
received  instruction  regarding  a  particular  rite  from  Parvata  and 
Narada.'*"  He  is  also  mentioned "'  in  the  following  passage  of  the 
Mahabh.,  i.  2439-41 :  Prahrada-sishyo  Nagnajit  Subala^  chabhcmat 
tatah  \  tasya  prcyd  dharma-hantri  jajne  deva-prakopanat  |  Gandhara- 
raja-putro  'hhuch  Chhakunih  Sauhalas  tatha  \  Dwryodhanasya  jananl 
jcy'nate  'rtha-viidradau  \  "Ifagnajit,  the  disciple  of  Prahrada,  and 
Subala,  were  then  bom.  Owing  to  the  wrath  of  the  gods,  the  offspring 
born  to  him  became  the  enemies  of  righteousness.  Two  children  were 
born  to  the  king  of  Gandhara  (Subala),  S'akuni  Saubala,  and  the 
mother  of  Duryodhana,  who  were  both  intelligent."  Duryodhana  was 
a  Kuru  prince,  and  one  of  the  heroes  of  the  Mahabharata. 

These  passages  are  amply  sufficient  to  prove  that  the  Gandharas  were 
a  people  with  whom  the  Arians  of  India  were  in  the  habit  of  holding 
intercourse,  and  contracting  affinities,  and  from  this  intercourse  we 
may  reasonably  infer  a  community  of  origin  and  language.  On  this 
subject  Lassen  remarks  (Zeitsch.  fiir  die  Kunde  des  Morgenl.,  iii.  206): 
"  Though  in  individual  passages  of  the  Mahabharata,  hatred  and  con- 

"0  Both,  Lit.  and  Hist,  of  the  Veda,  pp.  41,  42. 
'"  See  "Weber,  Ind.  Stud.  i.  218-220. 


354  CHARACTER  OF  TRIBES  BEYOND  THE  SARASVATl 

tempt  are  expressed  in  reference  to  the  tribes  living  on  the  Indus  and 
its  five  great  tributaries,  yet  there  is  no  trace  of  these  tribes  being 
ever  regarded  as  of  non-Indian  origin.  That  there  was  no  essential 
difference  in  their  language  is  proved,  as  regards  a  later  period,  by 
the  testimony  of  Panini,  which  I  have  already  cited."  The  previous 
passage  here  referred  to  is  from  the  same  article,  p.  194,  where  it  is 
said:  "The  word  Bahlka  is  used  not  only  in  the  Mahabharata,  but 
also  in  Panini,"'  as  a  general  designation  for  the  tribes  of  the  Panjab. 
The  use  of  this  appellation  is  thus  fully  certified ;  and  if  the  grammar- 
ian found  it  necessary  to  give  special  rules  for  forming  the  names  of 
the  villages  in  the  Bahika  country,  we  may  hence  conclude  that  the 
Bahikas  spoke  Sanskrit,  though  they  applied  particular  affixes  differ- 
ently from  the  other  Indians." 

The  same  writer  elsewhere'"  remarks:  "The  Indians  distinguish, 
not  expressly,  but  by  implication,  the  nations  dwelling  between  the 
Sarasvflti,  and  the  Hindu-kush,  into  two  classes :  first,  those  to  the  east- 
ward of  the  Indus,  and  some  of  those  immediately  to  the  westward  of 
that  river,  as  the  Gandharas  (see  p.  342,  above),  are  in  their  estimation 
still  Indians ;  .  .  .  but  with  the  exception  of  the  Kashmiras,  and  some 
less  known  races,  these  Indians  are  not  of  the  genuine  sort :  the 
greater  freedom  of  their  customs  is  regarded  as  a  lawless  condition." 
And  Weber  similarly  remarks  : '**  "The  north-western  tribes  retained 
their  ancient  customs,  which  the  other  tribes  who  migrated  to  the 
east  had  at  one  time  shared.  The  former  kept  themselves  free  from 
the  influences  of  the  hierarchy  and  of  caste,  which  arose  among  the 
latter  as  a  consequence  of  their  residence  among  people  of  alien  origin 
(the  aborigines).     But  the  later  orthodox  feelings  of  the  more  eastern 

'«  The  aphorisms  here  referred  to  are  iii.  3,  78,  and  iv.  2,  117,  118.  The  two 
latter,  with  the  comments,  are  as  follows: — 117  |  Vahika-gramebhyaieha]  VShtka- 
grama-vaohibhyovridha-aanjnakebhyash  "fhaii"  "hith"  ity  etau  pratyayau  bhava- 
tah  I  S'akalikT  |  S'akaliM  \  118  |  Vibhaaha  Ustnareshu  |  JTstnareshu  ye  Vahllca- 
gramas  tad-vaehibhyo  widhebhyash  "  than  "  "  nith  "  ity  etau  pratyayau  m  bhava- 
tah  I  SaudarSaniki  \  Saudardanilca  \  pakshe  ehhaji  \  Sauda/riamya  |  "  117.  The 
affixes  than  and  nith  are  employed  in  words  taking  vfiddhi,  which  denote  villages  of 
theVahikas;  as  S'akalikJ,  S'akalika.  118.  Or  the  afflzes  fAan  and  ns*/*  are  optionally 
employed  in  words  taking  vriddhi,  which  denote  Vahika  villages  in  the  country  of 
the  IJ^inaras ;  as  SaudaraanikT,  Saudarianiha ;  or  sometimes  with  the  chhas  affix, 


'"  Zeitsohrift,  ii.  68.    See  also  Asiat.  Res.  xv.  108 ;  and  App.  note  L. 
"4  Ind.  Stud,  i  220. 


AEIAN  ORIGIN  OP  THE  NORTH-WESTERN  TRIBES.  355 

Ariana  obliterated  the  recollection  of  their  own  earlier  freedom ;  and 
caused  them  to  detest  the  kindred  tribes  to  the  westward  as  renegades, 
instead  of  looking  on  themselves  as  men  who  had  abandoned  their  own 
original  institutions." 

There  are  other  races  also,  who,  although  in  the  later  Sanskrit 
literature  they  are  spoken  of  as  being  now  aliens  from  the  Brahmanical 
communion,  are  yet  declared  to  have  once  belonged  to  the  Kshatriya 
caste ;  and  to  have  lost  their  position  in  it  from  neglect  of  sacred 
rites.'*^  (See  above,  p.  259,  and  note  35).  In  addition  to  this  tra- 
dition, however,  we  have  yet  further  proof  of  the  Arian  origin  of  some 
at  least  of  these  tribes.  Thus,  it  appears  from  the  foHdwing  passage 
of  the  Nirukta  (already  quoted  above,  p.  152),  that  the  Kambojas 
spoke  an  Arian  language,  Nirukta,  ii.  2 :  "  Among  some  (tribes) 
the  original  forms  are  used,  among  others  the  derivatives.  S'avati 
for  the  '  act  of  going '  is  used  only  among  the  Kambojas,  while 
its  derivative  ima  is  used  among  the  Aryas.  Sdti  is  employed 
by  the  eastern  people  in  the  sense  of  '  cutting,'  while  the  word 
ddiram,  'sickle,'  (only)  is  used  by  the  men  of  the  north."  If, 
therefore,  the  testimony  of  Taska  in  regard  to  the  language  used  by 
Kambojas  is  to  be  trusted,  it  is  clear  that  they  spoke  a  Sanskrit  dialect. 
It  is  implied  in  the  remarks  he  has  made,  that  a  close  affinity  existed 
between  the  languages  of  the  Aryas  and  Kambojas ;  that  the  substance 
of  both  was  the  same,  though  in  some  respects  it  was  variously  modified 
and  applied.  For  it  is  only  where  such  a  general  identity  exists,  that 
the  differences  existing  between  any  two  dialects  can  excite  any  at- 
tention. Had  the  two  languages  had  but  little  in  common,  no  such 
comparison  of  minor  variations  could  have  suggested  itself  to  the 
grammarians.  Ifow  the  country  of  the  Kambojas  was  situated  to  the 
north-west  of  India,  on  the  other  side  of  the  Indus.  It  is  clear,  there- 
fore, that  Sanskrit  was  spoken  at  some  distance  to  the  west  of  that  river. 

Professor  Eoth  is  even  of  opinion  that  this  passage  proves  Sanskrit 
grammar  to  have  been  studied  among  the  Kambojas.  In  his  Lit.  and 
Hist,  of  the  Veda,  p.  67,  he  observes :  "  The  multitude  of  grammarians 
whose  opittions  are  cited  in  the  Prati^akhyas,  proves  how  widely  gram- 

"5  This  tradition  is,  however,  erroneously  extended  to  some  of  the  eastern  and 
southern  tribes,  the  Fundras,  Odras  and  Drari^as,  who,  as  we  shall  afterwards  see, 
could  not  have  been  of  Arian  origin. 


366        KAMBOJAS,  ARTAS,  PEACHYAS,  TJDiCHYAS,  SXJEASHTEAS. 

matical  studies  were  pursued;  andTaska  (Niruktaii.  2:  see  above,  and 
p.  152),  confirms  this  in  a  remarkable  passage,  according  to  -vehich  verbal 
forms  were  variously  employed  by  the  grammarians  of  four  different 
provinces.  These  four  tribes  were  the  KambSjas  and  Aryas,  together 
with  the  Praohyas  and  UdTohyas  (or  eastern  and  northern  peoples).  It 
is  thus  irrefragably  proved  that  the  Kambojas  were  originally  not  only 
an  Indian  people,  but  also  a  people  possessed  of  Indian  culture ;  and 
consequently  that  in  Taska's  time  this  culture  extended  as  far  as  the 
Hindukush.  At  a  later  period,  as  the  well-known  passage  in  Manu's 
Institutes  (x.  43)  shows,  the  Kambojas  were  reckoned  among  the 
barbarians,  because  their  customs  differed  from  those  of  the  Indians. 
....  The  same  change  of  relation  has  thus,  in  a  smaller  degree, 
taken  place  between  the  Kambojas  and  the  Indians,  as  occurred,  in  a 
remote  antiquity,  between  the  latter  and  the  ancient  Persians."  "° 

Now,  as  I  have  intimated,  the  fact  that  Sanskrit  was  spoken  by  the 
tribes  to  the  west  of  the  Indus  may  be  held  to  prove  that  that  tract  of 
country  was  inhabited  by  races  of  Arian  origin,  and  of  common  descent 
with  the  Indians ;"'  and  affords  an  additional  argument  in  support  of  the 
position  that  the  Indo-Arians  immigrated  into  India  from  that  direction. 

It  may,  however,  perhaps,  be  objected  that  the  passage  in  question 

'*'  In  his  later  work,  the  edition  of  the  Nimkta,  Roth  suspects,  for  certain 
reasons,  that  so  much  of  the  passage  before  us  as  refers  to  the  Kambojas  may  be 
interpolated.  He  adds,  however,  that  "it  is  in  so  far  valuable,  as  it  shows  that  the 
ancient  Indians  imagined  the  Kambojas  also  to  be  students  of  Sanskrit  Grammar." 
Erlaut.,  pp.  17,  18.  In  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  vii.  373-377, 
Professor  Miiller  makes  some  remarks  on  the  same  passage.  He  alludes  to  the  fact 
that  a  similar  passage  occurs  in  the  Mahabhashya;  and  observes  that  "though 
this  circumstance  appears  partly  to  confirm  Roth's  conjecture  regarding  the  spurious- 
nesB  of  portions  of  the  passage,  it  may  also  be  possible  that  the  Mahabhashya  has 
borrowed  it  from  the  Nirukta,  or  that  both  the  Nimkta  and  the  Mahabhashya  may 
have  taken  it  from  the  common  source  of  ancient  grammatical  tradition."  In  any 
case,  this  reference  to  a  distant  race  like  the  Kambojas,  looks  as  if  it  must  have 
been  borrowed  from  some  ancient  source.  The  passage  of  the  Mahabhashya  is  as 
follows,  p.  62  of  Dr.  Ballantyne's  edition:  S'avatir  gati-lca/rma  Kambojeshv  eva 
bhashito  bhmati  \  vikare  ma  enam  Aryalf  bfiashante  "imah"  iti  \  "  Sammati^" 
Stirashtreshu  "rcmhatih"  Praehya-madhyameahu  "gamim"  eva  tv  AryaHi  prayun- 
jate  I  "  Datir  "  Imemarthe  Fmchyeshu  datram  Udiehyeshu  |  "  S'avati,  as  a  verb  of 
going,  is  employed  only  by  the  Kambojas  ;  the  Aryas  use  only  its  derivative,  ^ava. 
The  Surashtras  use  hmnmati,  the  central  and  eastern  tribes  ramhati,  but  the  Aryas 
only  garni  in  the  sense  of  '  going.'  Dati  occurs  among  the  eastern  tribes  as  the 
verb  for  'cutting;'  ddtraj  a  '  sickle,'  alone  is  used  by  the  people  of  the  north." 

'*'  See  Appendix,  note  M.  See  Eawlinson's  Herodotus,  1.  p.  670,  671 ;  and  Strabo, 
there  quoted. 


CONCLUSIONS  DEDUCIBLE  FROM  THE  PRECEDING  PACTS.     357 

(Nir.  ii.  2),  not  only  proves  that  Sanskrit  was  spoken  by  th.e  Eiambojas, 
to  the  north-west,  but  by  the  men  of  the  east  also.  Now,  as  we  may 
presume  that  Taska  lived  on  the  banks  of  the  Sarasvati  or  of  the  Tamuna, 
or  of  the  Ganga,  the  people  whom  he  designates  Praohyas,  or  "men  of 
the  east,"  must  have  been  the  Klkatas,  or  the  Magadhas,  or  the  Angas, 
or  the  Vangas.  But  since  it  is  evident  from  this  passage  that  these 
tribes  also  spoke  Sanskrit,  it  might  in  like  manner  be  argued  from  this 
circumstance  that  the  Aryas  must  have  penetrated  into  India  from  the 
eastward.  To  this  I  reply,  that  we  can  prove  from  other  passages, 
such  as  that  in  the  S'atapatha-brahmana,  i.  4,  i.  10-18  (which  will  be 
quoted  further  on),  that  the  Arian  civilization  travelled  from  the  west 
to  the  east ;  and  that  therefore  we  may  reasonably  suppose  that  these 
Prachya  tribes  did  not  originally  live  in  the  eastern  country,  but 
formed  part  of  the  population  which  had  migrated  from  the  west,  or 
that  at  least  they  did  not  begin  to  speak  Sanskrit  till  they  had  learnt 
it  from  the  Arians  coming  from  the  west.  And  besides,  this  passage 
which  I  have  quoted  from  Taska  does  not  stand  alone ;  it  is  only 
auxiliary  to  the  other  arguments  which  have  been  already  adduced 
to  show  that  the  Indo- Arians  came  from  the  north-west. 

This  fact,  that  tribes  speaking  dialects  of  Sanskrit  lived  to  the 
north-west  of  India,  might,  it  is  true,  be  also  explained  on  Mr. 
Curzon's  hypothesis,  that  these  tribes  had  emigrated  from  India.  But 
this  hypothesis  is  opposed,  as  we  have  already  seen,  pp.  312,  f.,  320,  f., 
to  the  other  circumstances  of  the  case. 

The  argument,  then,  which  I  derive  from  the  facts  just  detailed, 
when  briefly  stated,  is  this :  "We  find  the  north-west  of  India  to  be 
occupied  by  various  tribes,  who  spoke  the  same  language  as  the  Arian 
Indians.  On  the  other  hand,  we  find  (as  will  be  shown  at  length  in 
the  next  chapter)  that  different  parts  (the  eastern  and  southern  as 
well  as  the  north-western)  of  Hindustan  itself,  were  inhabited  by  a 
variety  of  tribes  speaking  languages  fundamentally  distinct  from  those 
of  the  Arian  race.  Prom  this  I  draw  the  conclusion  that  the  Arian 
Indians  must  have  come  from  without,  from  the  same  side  which  we 
find  to  be  occupied  from  the  earliest  period  by  tribes  speaking  the  same 
language ;  and  have  driven  before  them  to  the  east  and  south  the  non- 
Arian  races,  to  whom,  on  penetrating  into  India,  they  found  them- 
selves opposed.  This  subject,  however,  will  be  handled  at  length  in 
the  following  chapter. 


358 


CHAPTEE  III. 

THE  AEIANS  IN  INDIA:    THEIR  ADVANCE  TO  THE  EAST  AND 

SOUTH. 

In  tie  preceding  ctapter  I  have  endeavoured,  by  a  variety  of  argu- 
ments derived  from  comparative  philology,  and  from  general  history, 
as  well  as  from  the  most  ancient  written  records  of  the  Indians  and 
the  Iranians,  to  prove — ^First,  that  the  dominant  race  which  we  find 
established  in  Hindustan  at  the  dawn  of  history  was  not  autoch- 
thonous, but  immigrated  into  that  country  from  Central  Asia;  and 
Secondly,  that  the  route  by  which  this  people  penetrated  was  from  the 
north-west  through  Eabul,  and  across  the  Indus.  I  shall,  for  the 
future,  assume  that  both  of  these  two  propositions  have  been  sub- 
stantiated; and  shall  proceed  to  trace  the  history  of  the  Indo-Arian 
tribes  after  they  had  entered  the  Panjab,  and  had  commenced  their 
advance  to  the  south  and  east.  We  have  already  gathered  (see 
above,  pp.  341,  ff.),  from  an  examination  of  the  oldest  Indian  records, 
the  hymns  of  the  Rigveda,  that  the  country  on  both  sides  of  the  Indus 
was  the  earliest  seat  of  the  Indo-Arians  in  India.  "We  shall  now  see 
(as  has  also  been  already  intimated,  pp.  291)  that  in  these  same  hymns 
the  ancient  bards  designated  the  men  of  their  own  tribes  by  the  name 
of  Aryas,  and  distinguished  them  expressly  from  another  class  of  people 
called  Dasyus,  who,  we  have  reason  to  suppose,  were  a  race  of  distinct 
origin  from  the  Aryas,  and  perhaps  different  from  them  in  colour  (see 
above,  p.  282),  as  they  certainly  were  in  language,  in  religion,  and  in 
customs,  who  had  been  in  occupation  of  India  before  it  was  entered  by 
the  Indo-Arians  from  the  north-west.  I  shall  afterwards  adduce  various 
passages  from  the  Brahmagas  and  post-Vedic  writings,  illustrative  of 
the  progress  of  the  Indo-Arians  as  they  advanced  to  the  east  and  south, 
driving  the  indigenous  tribes  before  them  into  the  hills  and  forests, 
and  taking  possession  of  the  territory  which  the  latter  had  previously 


HTMNS  DISTINGUISH  BETWEEN  ARYAS  AND  DASTTTS.         359 

occupied.  I  shall  subeeqiiently  furnish  some  iUustrations  of  the  funda- 
mental dififerences  which  ejdst  between  the  Sanskrit  and  the  languages 
of  the  south  of  India — differences  which  indicate  that  the  tribes 
among  which  the  latter  dialects  were  originally  vernacular  must  in  all 
probability  have  been  of  a  different  race  from  the  Indo-Arians.  And, 
finally,  I  shall  refer  to  the  mode  in  which  these  various  classes  of 
facts  support  the  conclusion  to  which  we  have  been  abeady  led,  that 
the  Indo-Arians  were  not  autochthonous  in  India,  but  immigrated 
into  that  country  from  the  north-west. 


Sect.  I. — Distinction,  drawn  between  the  Aryas  and  Dasyus  in 
the  Bigveda. 

I  proceed,  then,  first,  to  show  that  the  authors  of  the  Vedic  hymns 
made  a  distinction  between  the  members  of  their  own  community 
and  certain  tribes  whom  they  designated  as  Dasyus,  This  will  appear 
from  the  following  texts.  K.V.  51,  8,  9:  Vyanlhi  Aryan  ye  cha 
daayavo  iarhmishmate  randhaya  iasad  avratdn  |  iakl  hhava  yajamanasya 
ehodita  visva  it  ta  te  sadhamadeshu  ehakana  \  "  Distinguish  between 
the  Aryas  and  those  who  are  Dasyus :  chastizing  those  who  observe 
no  sacred  rites  [or  who  are  lawless],  subject  them  to  the  sacrificer. 
Be  a  strong  supporter  of  him  who  sacrifices.  I  desire  all  these 
(benefits)  at  thy  festivals." '  x.  86,  19  :  Ayam  emi  viehdhaiad  viohinvan 
dasam  aryam  \  "Here  I  come,"  (says  Indra)  "perceiving  and  distin- 
guishing the  Dasa  and  the  Arya."  i.  103,  3 ;  Sa  jdtuhharmd  srad- 
dadhdnah  ojah  pv/ro  vihhindann  achmrad  vi  ddslh  \  vidvdn  vajrin  dasyave 
hetim  asya  dryam  salio  vardhaya  dyvmnam  Indra  \  "  Armed  with  the 
lightning,*  and  trusting  in  his  strength,  he  (Indra)  moved  about  shat- 
tering the  cities  of  the  Dasyus.  Indra,  thunderer,  considering,  hurl 
thy  shaft  against  the  Dasyu,  and  increase  the  might  and  glory  of 
the  Arya."  i.  117.  21  ;  Yavam  vrihena  ASvind  vapantd  isham  duhdnd 
manushdya  dasrd  |   aihi  dasyurh   hahv/rena  dhamantd  wu  jyotis   cJtak- 

'  This  text,  as  well  as  R.V.  i.  103,  3,  given  below,  is  quoted  by  Professor  Miiller, 
"  Languages  of  the  Seat  of  War,"  first  edition,  p.  28,  note. 

*  Professor  Benfey  (Orient  nnd  Occident,  iii.  132)  xeaAets  jatubharma,  "a  born 
warrior."  Prof.  Aufreoht  considers  it  to  mean  "  carrying  off  the  victory,  or  palm," 
deriving  ya<M  fiom  ji,  to  conquer,  which  he  thinks  had  another  fprm  ja,  from  which 
comes jagu,  "victorious." 


360  AEYAS  AND  DASTtTS. 

rathwr  arydya  \  "  0  beautiful  Asvins,  sowing  barley  witb  the  plough, 
drawing  forth  (lit.  milking)  food  for  man,  and  sweeping  [or  blowing] 
away  the  Dasyu  with  the  thunderbolt,  ye  have  created  a  great  light 
for  the  Arya.'"  i.  130,  8  :  Indrah  samatsu  yajamanam  aryam  pravad 
visveshu  satamutir  ajishu  svarmilheshu  ajishu  \  manave  iasad  avratan 
tvacham  krishnam  arandhayat  \  "Indra,  who  in  a  hundred  ways  pro- 
tects in  all  battles,  in  heaven-conferring  battles,  has  preserved  in  the 
fray  the  sacrificing  Arya.  Chastizing  the  neglectors  of  religious  rites, 
he  subjected  the  black  skin  to  Manu  "  (or  the  Arian  man).*  iii.  34,  8, 
9  :  Sasana  yah  prithwlm  dyam  utemdm  Ind/ram  madcmli  anu  dhirana8ah,\ 
msdna  atydn  uta  suryam  sasdna  Indrah  sasdna  ptirubhojasam  gam  I 
Mranyam  uta  hhogam  sasdna  hatvl  dasyun  pra  drya/lh  varnam  dvaf  \ 
"The  wise  gladden  Indra,  who  bestowed  the  earth  and  this  firmament. 
Indra  gave  horses,  he  gave  the  sun,  he  gave  the  much-nourishing  cow ; 
and  he  gave  golden  wealth.  Slaying  the  Dasyu,  he  protected  the  Aryan 
colour."  iv.  26,  1,  2  :  Aham  Ma,nv/r  abhmam  suryaS  cha  afiam  Kah- 
shivdn  rishir  asmi  vvprah  \  aham  Kutsam  Arjuneyam  ni  rinje  aham  hmir 
Vsanah  pasyata  mdm  \  2  |  aham  Ihumim  adaddm  arydya  aham  vrishtim 
ddiushe  martydya  |  aham  apo  anayam  vdva^dndh  mama  devdso  anu 
■  dyan  \     "I,"  says  Indra,  "  was  Manu,  and  I  the  sun  ;  I  am  the 


'  Sayana  interprets  tlie  "  great  light,"  either  of  the  glory  acquired  hy  the  Asvins : 
SvaTciyam  tejo  mahatmyam  chairathuh  |  or  of  the  sun  :  Vistlrnam  auryakhyam 
jyotih  I  "  For  it  is  the  living  man  who  beholds  the  sun :"  Jivan  hi  suryam  pasyati  | 
Eoth  thinks  this  Terse  may  refer  to  some  forgotten  legend,  and  that  vriia  may  have 
the  ordinary  sense  of  "  wolf."  He  compares  E.V.  viii.  226 :  Daiasycmta  manave 
punyam  dim  ya/oam  vrikena  Tcarshathah  \  "  Desiring  to  be  bounttiiil  to  the  man,  ye 
have  of  old  in  the  sky  ploughed  barley  with  the  wolf."  He  is  also  of  opinion  that 
dhamanta  has  in  the  verse  before  us  its  proper  sense  of  "blowing,"  and  refers  in  proof 
to  the  words  of  E.V.  ix.  1,  8,  dhamanti  bahuram  drilim  |  Baktwa  perhaps  signifies, 
he  thinks,  a  "  crooked  wind  instrument,  which  the  As'vins  used  to  terrify  their 
enemies ;  and  bakura "  (in  E.V.  ix.  1,  8)  "  might  denote  a  skin  shaped  like  a 
bakwra''  lUustr.  of  Nirukta,  p.  92.  In  his  Lexicon,  Eoth  adheres  to  the  opinion 
that  bakura  is  probably  a  martial  wind-instrument,  and  that  bakuro  dritih  is  a  bag- 
pipe. The  two  following  passages  also  similarly  speak  of  light :  E.V.  ix.  92,  5 : 
Jyotir  yad  ahne  akrinod  u  lokam  pravad  mamm  dasyave  kar  abhtkam  \  "  When 
he  (Soma)  gave  light  to  the  day  and  afforded  space,  he  delivered  Manu  [or  the 
Arian  man],  and  arrested  the  Dasyu."  E.V.  x.  43,  4 :  .  .  .  vidat  svar  manave 
jyotir  aryam  \   "He  (Indra)  gave  to  Manu  blessedness  (and)  a  glorious  light." 

*  This  passage  is  translated  in  a  review  of  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  con- 
tained in  the  "  Times  "  of  12th  April,  1858.  The  "  black  skin,"  is  there  interpreted 
of  the  dark  colour  of  the  Dasyus.  The  next  passage  is  also  partly  quoted  in  the 
same  article. 


ARYAS  AND  DASTUS.  •  361 

■wise  rishi  KakshlTat.  I  subdue  Kutsa,  the  son  of  Arjuni.  I  am  the 
sage  Usanas  :  behold  me.  2. 1  gave  the  earth  to  the  Arya,  and  rain  to 
the  sacriflcer.  I  have  led  the  longing  waters.  The  gods  have  fol- 
lowed my  wiU." "  iv.  30,  18:  The  Sanskrit  text  of  the  following  is 
given  above,  p.  347  :  "  Thou,  0  Indra,  hast  speedily  slain  those  two 
Aryas,  Arna  and  Chitraratha,  on  the  opposite  bank  of  the  Sarayu  " 
(river),  vi.  25,  2,  3  :  Abhir  vUvah  abhiytyo  vuuehlr  aryaya  viio  ava- 
tarir  daslh\  Indra  jamay ah  uta  ye  ajamwyo  arvacMnaso  vanusho  yuyujre\ 
tvam  eshdm  vithurd  iavamsi  jahi  vrishnydni  krinuhi  pardohah  \  "  By 
these  (succours)  subdue  to  the  Arya  all  the  hostile  Dasa  people  every- 
where. Indra,  whether  it  be  kinsmen  or  strangers  who  have  approached 
and  injuriously  assailed  us,  do  thou  enfeeble  and  destroy  their  power  and 
vigour,  and  put  them  to  flight."  vi.  33,  3  :  Toam  tan  Ind/ra  ulhaydn 
amitrdn  ddsd  vritrdni  dryd  cha  Sura  |  vadhir  ity  ddi.  "  Do  thou, 
heroic  Indra,  destroy  both  these  our  foes,  (our)  Dasa  and  our  Arya 
enemies,  etc.  vi.  60,  6  :  Sato  vritrdni  dryd  hato  ddsdni  satpatl  |  hato 
visvdh  apa  dviahah  \  "  Do  ye,  0  lords  of  the  heroic,  slay  our  Arya 
enemies,  slay  our  Dasa  enemies,  destroy  all  those  who  hate  us."  E.V. 
vii.  5,  6  :  Tvam  dasyun  ohaso  Agne  djak  uru  jyotir  janayann  drydya  \ 
"  Thou,  Agni,  drovest  the  Dasyus  from  the  house,  creating  a  wide  light 
for  the  Arya."  vii.  83,  1  :  Ddsd  cha  vritrd  hatam  dryani  cha  sudd- 
sam  Ind/rd-  Farmd  'vasd  'vatam  \  "  Slay  both  the  Dasa  enemies  and 
the  Arya ;  protect  Sudas  (or  the  liberal  man)  with  your  succour,  0 


'  Sayana  connects  the  word  ari/a  as  an  epithet  with.  Manu  understood.  Professor 
"Weber,  Ind.  Stud.  i.  195,  note,  thinks  that  Manu  means  in  this  passage  the  moon. 
(In  pp.  194,  5,  he  has  a  dissertation  on  the  word  Manu.)  The  speaker  in  these 
verses  appear  to  be  Indra.  (See  Bothl.  and  Eoth's  Dictionary,  sui  voce,  Wanas.) 
The  Anukramani,  as  quoted  by  Sayana,  says,  Aclyabhis  tisribhir  Ingram  iva  atma- 
nam  rishis  tmhtava  Indro  va  atmanam  \  "  In  the  first  three  verses  the  rishi  cele- 
brates himself  as  if  under  the  character  of  Indra;  or  Indra  celebrates  himself." 
Kuhn  (Herabkunft  des  Feuers,  p.  143)  conjectures  that  Vamadeva  may  perhaps  have 
been  an  ancient  epithet  of  Indra.  In  E.V.  x.  48,  1,  Indra  says,  similarly :  Aham 
dasushe  vibhajami  bhojcmam  \  "I  distribute  food  to  the  sacriflcer,"  etc.  The 
pantheistic  author  of  the  Vrihad  Aranyaka  TJpanishad,  thinks  that  the  Rishi  Vama- 
deva is  speaking  of  himself  in  these  words  (Bibliotheca  Indica,  pp.  215,  216) :  Tad 
yo  yo  devdnam  pratyabudhyata  m  eva  tad  abhavat  tatha  rishtnam  tatha  manush- 
yanam  |  tad  ha  etat  pasyann  rishir  Vamadevah  pratipede  "  aham  Manur  ab/iavam 
suryas  cha"  iti  \  ""Whosoever  of  gods,  yishis,  or  men,  understood  That,  he  became 
That.  Perceiving  this,  the  Rishi  Vamadeva  obtained  this  text,  '  I  was  Manu,  I  the 
sun,  etc."     Wanas  is  connected  with  Indra  in  E.V.  vi.  20,  11. 

VOL.  II.  24 


362  VEDIC  HYMNS  DISTINGUISH 

Indra  and  Varuna."  x.  38,  Z:  Yo  no  dasah  aryo  va  puruahfuta 
adevah  Indra  yudhaye  ehikeiati  \  asmalhis  te  sushaMh  santu  Sairmah, 
toaya  vayam  tan  vanuyama  iangame  \  "  0,  much  lauded  Indra,  what- 
ever ungodly  person,  Dasa  or  Arya,  designs  to  fight  against  us,  let 
these  enemies  be  easily  subdued  by  us.  May  we  destroy  them  in  the 
conflict."  X.  49,  3  :  Aham  S'ushnasya  inathita  vadhar  yamam  na  yo 
rare  aryam  ndma  dasya/ve  \  "I,  the  slayer  of  S'ushna,  have  restrained 
the  bolt, — I  who  have  not  abandoned  the  Aryan  name  to  the  Dasyn." 
X.  65,  11:  Brahma  gam  aSvam  janayanta  oshadMr  ^naspatm  prithivim 
parvatan  apah  \  suryam  divi  rohayanfa^  sudanavah  arya.  vratd  visrija/nta 
adhi  kshami  \  "  These  bountiful  ones  "  (the  gods  named  in  the  pre- 
ceding verse)  "have  generated  prayer,  the  cow,  the  horse,  plants, 
trees,  the  earth,  the  mountains,  the  waters; — causing  the  sun  to 
ascend  the  sky,  and  spreading  Aryan  rites  over  the  earth."'  x.  83,  1 : 
Sdhydma  ddaam  aryam  tvayd  yujd  vayam  aahaskritma  sahasd  sahasvata\ 
"May  we,"  (0  Manyu)  "  associated  with  thee,  the  mighty  one,  over- 
come both  Dasa  and  Arya  through  (thy)  efiectual  energy."  x.  102,  3: 
Antar  yachha  jighd0isato  vajram  Indra  ahhidasatah  \  ddaaaya  vd  magha- 
vann  aryasya  va  sanutar  yavaya  vadham  \  "  Restrain,  0  Indra,  the  bolt 
of  the  murderous  assailant :  remove  far  away  the  weapon  of  our  enemy, 
be  he  Dasa  or  Arya."  x.  138,  3  :  Vi  suryo  madhye  amuchad  ratham 
vidad  ddsaya  pratimdnam  dry  ah  \  "  The  sun  has  launched  his  car  in 
mid-heaven :  the  Arya  has  paid  back  a  recompense  to  the  Dasyu." 
viii.  24,  27  :  Yah  rihhdd  amhaso  muohad  yo  vd  aryat  saptasindhushu  \ 
vadhar  ddsasya  tminrimna  ninamah  \  "  Who  delivered  [us]  from  the 
destroyer,  from  calamity;  who,  0  powerful  [god],  didst  avert  the 
bolt  of  the  Dasa  from  the  Arya  in  [the  laud  of]  the  seven  streams." 

The  above-cited  texts  seem  to  show  that  the  Eigveda  recognizes  a 
distinction  between  the  tribe  to  which  the  authors  of  the  hymns 
belonged,  and  a  hostile  people  who  observed  different  rites,  and  were 
regarded  with  contempt  and  hatred  by  the  superior  race.  This  appears 
from  the  constant  antithetic  juxtaposition  of  the  two  names  Arya  and 
Dasyu,  in  most  of  these  texts ;   and  from  the  specification  in  others  of 

«  Compare  R.V.  yii.  99,  4 :  Urum  yajnaya  chalcrathur  a  loham  janaycmta 
suryam  ushasam  agnim  \  Damsya  chid  vrishaiiprasya  mayah  jaghnathur  nam 
pritanajyeshu :  "  Te  (Indra  and  Vishnu)  have  provided  abundant  room  for  the 
sacrifice,  creating  the  sun,  the  dawn,  and  fixe.  Te,  0  heroes,  have  destroyed  the 
povrera  of  the  bull-nosed  Daaa." 


BETWEEN  ABTAS  AITD  DASTUS.    "  363 

enemies,  both  Arya  and  Dasyn,  If  human  enemies  are  designated 
in  the  latter  texts  by  the  word  Arya,  we  may  reasonably  suppose  the 
same  class  of  foes  to  be  commonly  or  often  denoted  by  the  word  Dasyu. 
It  is  not,  of  course,  to  be  expected  that  we  should  find  the  Indian  com- 
mesntators  confirming  this  view  of  the  matter  more  than  partially;  as 
they  had  never  dreamt  of  the  modern  critical  view  of  the  origin  of 
the  Aryas  and  their  relation  to  the  barbarous  aboriginal  tribes.  Taska 
(Nirukta,  vi.  26)  explains  the  term  Arya  by  the  words  "  son  of  a  [or, 
of  the]  lord."'  The  word  Dasyu  is  interpreted  by  him  etymologically, 
thus:  "Dasyu  comes  from  the  root  dag,  to  destroy;  in  him  moisture 
is  consumed,  and  he  destroys  (religious)  ceremonies."  ^ 

Sayana  interprets  the  word  Arya,  by  "wise  performers  of  rites;"' 
wise  worshippers;"^"  "wise;"  "one  to  whom  all  should  resort;"" 
"the  most  excellent  race  [colour]  consisting  of  the  three  highest 
castes;"''  "practising  ceremonies;""  "most  excellent  through  per- 
formance of  ceremonies;""  and  in  two  places,  i.  117,  21,  and  iv.  26, 
2,  he  regards  it  as  an  epithet  of  Manu.  The  same  commentator  in- 
terprets the  word  Dasyu  of  the  "robber  Vritra;"'*  "enemies  who 
destroy  the  observers  of  Vedio  rites;""  "the  Asuras,  Pisachas,  etc., 
who  destroy ; " "  " the  vexing  Asuras ; " ''  "all  the  people  who  destroy 
religious  rites;"™  "Vala  and  the  other  Asuras  who  destroy  religious 
rites ; "  "  "  enemies  devoid  of  religious  ceremonies."  '^  From  these  quo- 
tations it  will  be  seen  that  Sayana  mostly  understands  the  Dasyus  of 
superhuman  beings,  demons,  or  Titans,  rather  than  of  human  enemies. 

'  Nir.  vi.  26  :  Aryah  uvara-putrah  \  See  Benfey's  remarks  on  this  definition  in 
Gott.  Gel.  Anz.,  for  1861,  pp.  141,  f. 

8  Nir.  vii.  23 :  Baayii/r  dasyateh  ks/iayarthad  upadasyanty  asmin  rasah  tipadd- 
sayati  karmani  | 

»  Vidmho  'nushthatrm  \    on  R.T.  i.  61,  8. 

i»  Vidvamsah  stotarah  \    on  i.  103,  3.  "   Vidmhe  \    on  i.  117,  21. 

'2  Arcmiyam  sanair  gemtavyam  \   on  i.  130,  8. 

''   Xntamam  varnam  traivarnikam  \    on  iii.  34,  9. 

"  Karma-yuktani  \  on  vi.  22,  10. 

'5  KammnusMlMtfitvena  sreahthdni  \  on  vi.  33,  3. 

i»  Choram  vritram  |  on  i.  33,  4. 

"  AnmhthSirlnam  npakahapayitarah  s'atravah  \    oni.  51,  8;  and  i.  103,  3. 

1'  TXpakshaya-karinam  asm-am  pUachadikam  \  oni.  117,  21. 

1'  JBadhakan  asuran  |  on  iii.  34,  9. 

'"  Xarmanam  tipakshapayitrir  visvah  sarmh  prajah  |   on  vi.  25,  2. 

21  Vpakshapayitrm  karma-virodhino  Vala-prabhritln  aauran  \   on  vi.  33,  3. 

22  Karmahinah  iatramali  \  on  vi.  60,  6. 


364  DASTTS  AS  DESCRIBED  IN  THE  AITAEEYA- 

In  his  note  on  i.  100,  8,  he  speaks  of  them  as  "destroying  enemies 
living  on  the  earth  ;"'^  and  in  another  place  he  explains  the  Dasa 
varna,  as  being  either  "the  S'udras  and  other  inferior  tribes,  or  the 
vile  destroying  Asura."^* 

There  is  no  doubt  that  in  many  passages  of  the  E.V.,  to  which  I 
shall  presently  refer,  the  words  Dasyu  and  Dasa  are  applied  to  demons 
of  different  orders,  or  goblins  (Asuras,  Kakshasas,  etc.);  but  it  is 
tolerably  evident  from  the  nature  of  the  case,  that  in  all,  or  at  least 
some  of  the  texts  which  have  been  hitherto  adduced,  we  are  to  under- 
stand the  barbarous  aboriginal  tribes  of  India  as  intended  by  these 
terms.  This  is  yet  more  clearly  established  by  the  sense  in  which 
the  word  Dasyu  is  used  (i.e.  for  men  and  not  for  demons)  in  the 
Aitareya-brahmana,  in  Manu,  and  in  the  Mahabharata.  Thus  the 
author  of  the  Aitareya-brahmana,  after  making  Visvamitra  say  to  his 
fifty  disobedient  sons,  vii.  18:  Tan  anuvyajahdra  "  antdn  vah  prajd 
hhaJcsMshfa  "  iti  \  te  ete  Andhrdh  Pundrdh  ^aba/rah  Pulinddh  Mutibdh 
ity  udantydh  bahcwo  hhmanti  \  Vaihdmitrdh  dasyundm  hhuyisJithdh  \ 
"Let  your  progeny  possess  the  extremities  [of  the  land],"  adds, 
"These  are  the  Andhras,  Pundras,  S'abaras,  Pulindas,  Mutibas,  and 
other  numerous  frontier  tribes.  Most  of  the  Dasyus  are  descended 
from  Yi^vamitra."  '^  And  in  the  authoritative  definition  already 
quoted**  (see  also  vol.  i.,  p.  482),  Manu  tells  us :  "  Those  tribes  in  the 
world  which  are  without  the  pale  of  the  castes  sprung  from  the 
mouth,  arms,  thighs,  and  feet  [of  Brahma],  whether  they  speak  the 
language  of  the  Mlechhas,  or  of  the  Aryas,  are  aU  called  Dasyus." 

The  Mahabharata  thus  speaks  of  the  same  people,  ii.  26,  1025 : 
Tanravam,  yudhi  nirjitya  Dasyunparvata-vdsinah\  ganan  UtstwasanJcetdn 
ajayat  sapta  Pandavah  \  "Having  vanquished  the  Paurava  in  battle, 
the  Pandava  conquered  the  ITtsavasanketas,  seven  tribes  of  Dasyus 
inhabiting  the  mountains."  And  again.  Ibid.  ver.  1031-2:  Baraddn 
saha  Kambojair  ajayat  Pakaidsanih  \  prdguttardm  disafh  ye  eha  vasanty 
diritya  Basywoah  I  nivasanti  vane  ye  eha  tdn  sarvdn  ajayat  prabhuh  \ 
Lohdn  Paramakdmbojdn  Rishihdn  uttardn  api\    "Pakasasani  conquered 

*'  Prithivydm  bhumau  vartamanan  dast/un  upahahapayitfln  s'atrun  |  on  i.  100.  8. 
**  Dasam  varnam  dudradilcam  yad/oa  daaam  %<pakahapayitaram  adharam  nilcrish- 
tam  asuram. 
25  See  the  first  volume  of  this  wort  (2nd  ed.),  pp.  355,  ff. 
a»  See  above  p.  151. 


BEAHMANA,  MANU,  AND  THE  MAHABHAEATA.  365 

the  Daradas,  with,  the  Kambojas,  and  the  Dasyus  who  dwell  in  the 
north-east  region,  as  well  as  all  the  inhabitants  of  the  forest,  with  the 
Lohas,  the  Parama-Eambojas  (furthest  Kambojas),  and  the  northern 
Bishikas."  And  once  more :  Kdmbojanam  sahasrais  eha  S'akandm 
eha  vUampate  \  S'abarandm  Kwatanam  Vwrvarandm  tathaiva  cha  \  ' 
agamyarupam  prithmm  mdmh-Sonita-kardamam  |  Kritavdms  tatra 
S'aineyah  Jcshapayaihs  tavakam  halam  \  Dasyundm  sa-sirmtrdmih  siro- 
Ihir  lunamurdhq/aih  \  dirghakurohair  mdhi  kirnd  vwarhair  andajair 
iva  I  "  S'aineya  (Krishna's  charioteer)  made  the  beautiful  earth  a 
mass  of  mud  with  the  £.esh  and  blood  of  thousands  of  Eambojas, 
S'akas,  S'avaras,  Eiratas,  Varvaras,  destroying  thy  host.  The  earth 
was  covered  with  the  helmets  and  shaven  and  bearded  heads  of  the 
Dasyus,  as  with  birds  bereft  of  their  wings.""  Here  it  is  evident 
that  the  word  Dasyu,  in  the  latter  part  of  the  sentence,  is  a  generic 
term  denoting  the  whole  of  the  tribes  who  had  been  previously 
mentioned,  the  Kambojas,  S'akas,  etc. 

Another  passage  occurs  in  the  S'anti  Parva  of  the  Mahabh.,  sect.  66, 
verses  2429,  ff.,  where  the  tribes  there  enumerated  are  said  to  live 
after  the  fashion  of  the  Dasyus ;  and  where  the  duties  to  be  observed 
by  the  Dasyus  are  described.  The  Dasyus  therefore  cannot  have 
been  regarded  by  the  author  of  the  Mahabharata  as  demons. 

If  any  further  illustration  of  this  point  be  required,  it  may  be  found 
in  the  following  story  (from  the  Mahabharata,  S'anti  P.,  sect.  168, 
verses  6293,  ff.)  about  the  sage  Gautama  living  among  the  Dasyus: 
Bhishma  v/odcha  \  hanta  te  vartayishye  'ham  itihdsam  purdtanam  \  udieh- 
ydm  diii  yad  vrittam  Mleehheshu  maniyddhipa  \  hrdhmano  madhyadeklyah 
ka&chid  vai  Irahma-varjitam  \  grdmam,  vriddhi-yutam  vikshya  prdvisad 
hhaiksha-kdmkshayd  \  tatra  Basywr  dhanayutah  sarva-varna-visesha- 
vit  I  brahmanyah  satyasandhai  cha  ddne  cha  nirato  'hhavat  \  tasya  kshayam 
vpagamya  tato  bhikshdm  aydehata  |  .  .  .  .  |  Gautamah  sannikarshena 
Basyubhih  samatdm  iydt  \  tathd  tu  vasatas  tasya  Dasyu-grdme  suhham 
tadd  I  .  .  .  .  kim  idam,  kmushe  mohdd  vipras  tvam  hi  kulodvahah  \ 
madhyade^a-pao'ijndto  Basyvr-bhdvam  gatah  katham  \  Bhishma  is  the 
speaker :  "  I  will  tell  thee  an  ancient  story  about  what  happened  in 
the  northern  region  among  the  Mlechhas.  A  certain  Brahman  of  the 
central  country,  perceiving  a  particular  village,  which  was  destitute 
"  Mahabh.  Drona  Parva.     Sect.  119,  ver.  4747,  ff. 


366  MEANING  OF  DASTU  IN  THE  HYMNS. 

of  Brahmans  [or  the  Veda],  to  be  in  a  prosperotis  condition,  entered  it 
to  solicit  alms.  There  lived  there  a  wealthy  Dasyu,  who  was  acquainted 
with  the  distinctions  of  all  the  castes,  religious,  truthful,  and  liberal. 

Approaching  his  house,  the  Brahman  asked  alms,"  and  a  house 

•  ".From  proximity  with  the  Dasyus,  Gautama  [the  Brahman  in  question] 
became  like  them.  While  he  was  thus  dwelling  happily  iu  a  village 
of  Dasyus,"  another  Brahman  arrived,  who  demanded  of  him :  "What 
is  this  that  thou  art  foolishly  doing  ?  Thou  art  a  Brahman  of  good 
family,  well  known  in  the  central  region :  how  is  it  that  thou  hast 
sunk  into  the  condition  of  a  Dasyu?" 

From  the  evidence  afforded  by  these  passages  of  Manu  and  the 
Mahabharata,  it  is  probable  that  the  word  Dasyu,  when  occurring  in 
the  Veda,  is  sometimes  at  least  to  be  understood  of  men,  and,  con- 
sequently, of  the  wild  aboriginal  tribes,  whom  the  Arian  Indians  en- 
countered on  their  occupation  of  Hindustan.  It  is.  true  that,  by  the 
later  authorities  whom  I  have  quoted,  the  Dasyus  are  regarded  as 
degraded  Arians,*'  (though  Manu  says  that  some  of  them  spoke  Mlechha 
dialects),  and  that  tribes  unquestionably  Arian,  as  the  Kambojas  (see 
above,  p.  355,  f.),  are  included  among  them.  But  though  it  is  true 
that  some  of  the  Arian  tribes  who  had  not  adopted  Brahmanical  in- 
stitutions were  so  designated  in  after-times,  the  term  Dasyu  could  not 
well  have  been  so  applied  in  the  earlier  Vedic  era.  At  that  time  the 
Brahmanical  institutions  had  not  arrived  at  maturity ;  the  distinction 
between  those  who  observed  them  strictly  and  those  who  observed  them 
laxly  could  scarcely  have  arisen ;  and  the  tribes  who  are  stigmatized 
by  the  Vedic  poets  as  persons  of  a  different,  religion  must  therefore, 
probably,  have  been  such  as  had  never  before  been  brought  into  contact 
with  the  Arians,  and  were,  in  fact,  of  an  origin  totally  distinct. 

It  thus  appears,  that  by  the  Dasyus  who  are  mentioned  in  the  Eig- 
veda  we  must,  in  some  passages,  though  not  in  all,  understand  the 
barbarous  aboriginal  tribes  with  whom  the  Aryas,  on  their  settlement 
in  the  north-west  of  India,  were  brought  into  contact  and  conflict. 
Before  we  proceed  further,  however,  it  will  be  interesting  to  review 
some  of  the  other  principal  texts  of  the  E.V.  in  which  the  Aryas  and 
Dasyus  are  mentioned.  I  should  be  glad  if,  while  doing  so,  I  could 
hope  to  arrive  in  each  case  at  a  definite  result  in  regard  to  the  ap- 
'8  See  Lassen,  Zeitschrift,  ii.  49,  ff. 


OPINIOKS  OF  PROFESSORS  BENFET  AND  ROTH.  367 

plication  made  of  the  words  Dasyu  and  Dasa,  and  to  determine  pre- 
cisely the  relations  which  subsisted  between  the  tribes  sometimes 
understood  under  that  designation  and  the  Aryas.  But  the  sense  of 
the  texts  is  often  so  obscure,  that  I  cannot  always  expect  to  fix 
their  interpretation,  or,  consequently,  to  deduce  from  them  any  certain 
Conclusions.  As,  however,  I  have  collected  and  arranged  a  con- 
siderable number  of  passages  bearing  on  this  subject,  I  think  it  best 
to  present  them  to  the  reader,  with  such  illustrations  as  I  am  able 
to  supply,  in  the  hope  that  a  fuller  elucidation  may  sooner  or  later 
be  supplied  by  the  mature  researches  of  some  more  competent  scholar. 
[Since  the  above  remarks  were  written.  Professors  Benfey  and  Both 
have  expressed  their  opinions  on  this  subject.  The  former  scholar  writes 
as  follows,  in  his  review  of  the  first  edition  of  this  work  above  referred 
to,  Gott.  Gel.  Anz.  for  1861,  pp.  137,  fi'. :  "  On  a  point  which  occupies 
a  prominent  place  in  this  work  I  will  permit  myself  one  further  ob- 
servation. It  is  well  known  that  in  the  Vedas  the  word  'dasyu,'  and 
in  place  of  it  also  'dasa,'  frequently  appears  as  the  antithesis  of  'arya.' 
...  It  admits  of  no  doubt  that  the  Sanskrit-speaking  races  designate 
themselves  by  the  word  arya;  it  is  therefore  a  natural  supposition  that  by 
the  words  'dasyu'  and  'dasa'  they  denote  those  who  had  been  subjected 
by  them.  This  assumption  is  confirmed  by  several  passages.  On  the 
other  hand,  however,  there  are  not  a  few  in  which  the  same  expressions 
'dasyu'  and  'dasa'  are  applied  to  the  demons  with  whom  the  gods  are  in 
conflict,  and  whose  defeat  is  a  condition  of  the  earth  receiving  the 

heavenly  blessing  which  is  bestowed  by  the  gods The  question 

arises  whether  one  of  these  is  the  proper  signification,  which  is 
only  secondarily  applied  to  the  other,  or  whether  any  third  sense 
common  to  both  lies  at  the  root  of  them.  The  answer  is  already 
indicated  by  the  alternating  employment  of  'dasyu'  with  'dasa'  (which 
has  the  sense  of  slave)  in  the  same  antithesis  (with  'arya') — an  employ- 
ment which  we  may  with  the  highest  probability  conjecture  to  rest 
upon  an  identity,  or,  at  least,  an  inward  connexion.  This  indication 
receives  a  tolerably  decisive  confirmation  from  the  fact  that  according 
to  an  abundance  of  analogies  'dasyu'  and  'dasa'  are  found  to  be  akin  to 
each  other  from  a  phonetic  point  of  view."  ....  After  stating  at 
some  length  his  grounds  for  this  opinion.  Prof.  Benfey  proceeds :  "  The 
essential  similarity  of  'dasa'  and  'das'  is  thus  beyond  doubt.    But 


368  BENFET  AND  BOTH  ON  DASTU  AND  DASA. 

'  dasa '  has  decidedly  the  sense  of  '  slave,'  and  if  this  was  the  original 
meaning  of  hoth  the  forms,  it  is  equally  certain  that  hoth  '  dasa '  and 
'  dasyu,'  in  contrast  -with  the  '  arya,'  at  first  designated  the  aboriginal 
population  subjected  by  the  latter  at  the  time  of  their  diffusion ;  and 
this  relation  which  subsisted  on  earth,  which  no  doubt  was  not  rarely 
interrupted  by  revolts  of  the  subject  people,  was  transferred  by  the 
Arians  to  the  domain  of  the  gods,  whose  harmful  demons  were  re- 
presented as  the  rebellious  slaves  of  the  deities. 

"  The  view  that  in  this  contrasted  relation  'dasa'  has  really  the  sense 
of  '  slave,'  '  servant,'  is  supported  by  three  essentially  similar  half 
verses  of  the  Atharvaveda  (overlooked  by  the  author  in  his  collection), 
in  which  '  S'udra,'  the  well-known  name  for  the  servile  caste  in  India, 
stands  in  the  same  contrast  to  '  arya,'  as  '  dasyu '  and  '  dasa '  elsewhere 
do.  The  first  is  iv.  20,  4 :  Taya  ^ham  sarvam  paiyami  yai  eha  iS'udrah 
utaryah  \  '  By  this  (plant)  I  see  every  one,  whether  '  S'udra  or  Arya.' 
The  second  text  is  iv.  20,  8 :  TenaMm  sarvam  pasyami  uta  S'udram 
utaryam  \  '  By  it  (a  kind  of  goblin)  I  see  every  one,  whether  S'udra 
or  Arya.'  The  third  is  xix.  62,  1,"  which  Prof.  Benfey  does  not  quote, 
but  which  runs  thus :  Priyam  ma  hrinu  deveshu  priyam  rajam  ma 
krinu  I  priyam  sarvasya  paiyatah  uta  iiidre  utarye  \  "Make  me  dear 
to  the  gods ;  make  me  dear  to  kings,  dear  to  every  one  who  beholds 
me,  whether  to  S'udra  or  Arya." 

Professor  Eoth,  in  his  Lexicon,  s.v.  dasyu,  defines  that  word  as  de- 
noting (1)  "a  class  of  superhuman  beings,  who  are  maliciously  disposed 
both  to  gods  and  men,  and  are  overcome  by  Indra  and  Agni  in  particu- 
lar." Many  of  the  demons  subdued  by  Indra,  designated  by  particular 
names,  as  S'ambara,  S'ushna,  Chumuri,  etc.,  bear  the  general  appella- 
tion of  Dasyu.  They  are  not  only  spirits  of  darkness  like  the  Eakshases, 
but  extended  over  the  widest  spheres.  In  A.V.,  xviii.  8,  22,  they 
are  demons  in  the  form  of  deceased  men  (  Ye  dasyavah  pitrishu  pravish- 
tah  jnatimukhas  cha/ranti).  They  are,  he  remarks,  frequently  contrasted 
(a)  generally  with  men  {manu,  ayu,  nar),  and  are  called  amdmisha  in 
E.V.,  X.  22,  8  (in  support  of  which  he  refers  to  E.V.,  viii.  87,  6 ; 
ix.  92,  5 ;  Val.,  2,  8 ;  E.V.,  vi.  14,  3,  and  v.  7,  10) ;  and  (b)  more 
specifically  with  pious  orthodox  men  {arya),  and  it  is  but  seldom,  if 
at  aU  (he  considers),  that  the  explanation  of  dasyu  as  referring  to  the 
non- Arians,  the  barbarians,  is  advisable  (in  proof  of  which  he  cites 


FURTHER  TEXTS  ON  THE  ARTAS  AND  DASYUS.  369 

E.V.,  i.  117,  21;  vii.  5,  6 ;  ii.  11,  18,  f . ;  iii.  34,  9;  i.  103,  3;  x.  49, 
3;  i.  51,  8).  The  last  passage,  however,  he  thinks,  is  best  explained 
of  the  barbarians.  The  word  is  (2) — ^he  goes  on  to  say — an  oppro- 
brious designation  of  hostile,  wicked,  or  barbarous  men,  perhaps  in'  the 
following  passages  of  the  Veda,  v.  70,  3,  twryama  dasyan  tanuhhih; 
"let  us  overcome  the  Dasyus  in  our  own  persons:"  x.  83,  6,  hanava 
dasyun  uta  hodhi  dpeh  |  "  let  us  slay  the  Dasyus,  and  do  thou  recollect 
thy  friend."  In  Ait.  Br.,  vii.  18,  they  are  barbarous  tribes:  Vaiiva- 
mitrah  daayundm  hhuyishthah  |  "Most  of  the  Dasyus  are  descended  from 
Yi^vamitra."] 

Sect.  II. — Additional  Vedie  texts  hearing  on  the  relations  of.  the  Aryas 

and  Basyus. 

First:  In  the  following  passages,  or  some  of  them,  reference  may 
be  made  to  the  earth  or  territory  being  bestowed  on  the  Aryas,  i.  100, 
18  :  Dasyun  S'imyUmi  clta  pwruhutah  evair  hatva  prithivydm  iarva 
nivarhlt  \  sanat  hhetram  sakhihhih  ivitnyebhih  scmat  surywih  sanad  apah 
suvajrdh  \  "  (Indra),  the  much-invoked,  having,  according  to  his  wont, 
smitten  to  [or  on]  the  earth  the  Dasyus  and  S'imyus  [or  destroyers], 
crushed  them  with  his  thunderbolt.  The  thunderer,  along  with  his 
shining  friends,  bestowed  territory,  bestowed  the  sun,  bestowed  the 
waters.""  ii.  20,  7  :  Sa  vritrdha  Indrah  hrishnayonih pwrandwo  daslr 
airayad  vi  \  ajanayad  manave  Icaham  apai  eha  ityddi  \    "  Indra,  the 

*'  Several  points  are  obscure  in  this  passage.  Is  tlie  word  S'imyu  the  name  of  a 
trihe  (as  Professor  Wilson  renders  it),  or  does  it  merely  mean  a  destroyer  ?  In  E.V. 
vii.  18,  5,  we  have  the  words  s'ardkantam  iimyum,  which  Professor  Roth  (Lit.  and 
Hist,  of  the  Veda,  p.  94)  renders  by  "  defiant  wrong-doer."  Sayana  on  that  passage 
explains  aitm/tim  by  bodhamanam  |  "  understanding "  (participle).  In  the  t«xt 
before  us  he  explains  the  word  S'amayitrm  vadkakarino  rakshasadm  |  "  Subduers, 
i.e.  slayers,  Rakshasas,  etc." ;  and  again  on  the  same  passage:  S'imyun  \  S'amu 
upaiame  \  samayati  sarvam  tiraskaroti  iti  rakshasadih  iimyuh  \  "  The  verb  sam 
designates  one  who  contemns  every  one  else.  S'imyu  therefore =iJa4*Aa«a,  etc." 
Then,  who  are  the  "  shining  friends  "  of  Indra,  in  the  second  clause  ?  The  Maruts  ? 
or  the  fair-complexioned  Aryas  ?  In  verse  2  of  this  hymn,  we  find  the  words 
sakhibhih  avebhih,  "  his  friends,"  which  Sayana  interprets  of  the  Maruts.  He  ex- 
plains verse  18  thus:  avitnyehhili  Iveta/earnair  alankarma  diptangair  sakhibhir 
mitrabhutair  manidbhih  saha  kahetram  aatrunam  svalhutam  bhumim  aanat  aama- 
bhakahit  \  "  Along  with  his  white-coloured  (i.e.  whose  limbs  were  shining  with  orna- 
ments) friends,  the  Maruts,  he  divided  the  territory  belonging  to  his  enemies."  On 
the  other  hand,  we  have,  in  verse  6  of  this  hymn,  the  worshippers  themselves  spoken 
of  as,  according  to  Sayana' s  gloss,  the  persons  with  whom  the  sun  was  shared.    The 


370  IRYAS  AND  DASYTTS. 

slayer  of  Vritra,  and  destroyer  of  cities,  scattered  the  servile  (hosts) 
of  black  descent.  He  produced  the  earth  and  waters  for  Manu." '°  The 
passages  iii.  34,  9,  and  iv.  26,  2,  which  have  been  already  quoted 
above  (p.  360,  f.),  should  be  again  referred  to  here.  vi.  18,  3 :  Tvam 
ha  nu  tyad  adamayo  dasyuihr  ekdh  krishttr  manor  aryaya  \  "Thou 
(Indra)  hast  then  subdued  the  Dasyus:  thou  hast  alone  subdued 
peoples  to  the  Arya."''  vi.  61,  3:  Jlta  hhitihhyo  avanir  avindah] 
"And  thou  (Sarasvati)  hast  obtained  lands  for  men.'"'  vii.  19,  3: 
Fawuiutsi0i  Trasadasyum  dvah  hhetrasata  vritrahatyeshu  purum  \ 
"  Thou  hast  preserved  the  man  Trasadasyu,  son  of  Purukutsa,  in  fights 

words  there  are  :  Asmaleebhir  nribhih  smyitm  sanat  |  which  Sayana  renders,  AsmadT- 
yair  nribhiK  pu/rushaih  sicryam  suryapraleascm  mnat  aambhaktam  Jearotu  s'atru- 
purushais  tu  driahti-nirodhakhmn  mdhalcaram  scmyojayatu  \  "Let  him  divide  the 
light  of  the  sun  with  our  men,  and  involve  our  enemies  in  darkness  which  shall 
obstnict  their  view."  The  same  words  are  rendered  by  Eosen ;  Nostratibus  mris 
aolem  eoncedai,  "  Let  him  bestow  the  sun  on  our  countrymen,"  where  the  words  in 
the  instrumental  case  have  the  sense  of  the  dative  assigned  to  them.  If  they  bear 
that  sense  in  verse  6,  they  may  equally  have  it  in  the  18th  also.  The  meaning 
would  then  be,  "  He  bestowed  the  land,  the  sun,  the  waters,  on  his  fair  friends." 
But  this  use  of  the  instr.  would  not  suit  verse  10,  8a,  gramebhih  sanita  sa  fathebhih  \ 
whether  we  understand  gramebhih  of  villages,  or  hosts.  On  the  words,  "  his  fair 
friends,"  Professor  Wilson  remarks,  Eigveda  i.  p.  260,  note :  "  These,  according  to 
the  scholiast,  are  the  winds,  or  Maruts ;  but  why  they  should  have  a  share  of  the 
enemy's  country  (satrumtn  bhumim)  seems  doubtful.  Allusion  is  more  probably 
intended  to  earthly  friends  or, worshippers  of  Indra,  who  were  white  {s'witnya)  in 
comparison  with  the  darker  tribes  of  the  conquered  country."  The  worshipper's 
friendship  with  Indra  is  mentioned  in  many  passages  of  the  E.V.,  as,  i.  101,  1  ;  iv. 
16,  10 ;  vi.  18,  6  ;  vi.  21,  5  and  8  ;  vi.  45,  7.  Eosen  renders  this  passage :  Mxpug- 
navit  terram  sociis  suis  nitentibus,  "  He  conquered  the  earth  with  his  struggling 
companions ;"  thus  giving  another  sense  to  ititnyebhih.  In  two  other  hymns,  vii. 
99,  3,  and  x.  65,  11  (quoted  above,  p.  362),  we  find  mention  made  of  the  sun  in 
a  somewhat  similar  manner  as  in  the  verse  under  review.  In  his  translation  of  the 
Eigveda  in  Orient  und  Occident,  ii.  618,  f.,  Prof.  Benfey  gives  the  following  sense 
to  the  verse  before  us :  "  The  much-invoked  smites  the  robbers  and  devisers  of  mis- 
chief ;  in  tempest  he  shatters  them  to  the  ground  with  his  bolt ;  with  his  shining 
comrades  the  thunderer  acquired  ground,  sun,  and  floods." 

'"  Sayana  explains  the  words  krishnayoriih,  etc.,  thus :  Teriahmyonir  nikriahtajafir, 
daair  iipahahapayatnr  asurih  aenah,  "the  destructive  armies  of  the  Asuras,  of 
degraded  rank."  The  Valakhilya  ii.  8,  has  the  following  words :  yebhir  ni  daayum 
manuaho  nighoahayah  |  "  The  horses  vrith  which  (Indra)  thou  didst  scare  (?)  the 
Dasyu  away  from  the  man." 

»'  Sayana  explains  Toriahtih,  "  people,"  by  putradasMm,  "  children,  slaves,'"  etc. 

"  Sayana  explains  avanlh,  by  Aaurair  apahritah  bhumih,  "  lands  taken  away  by 
the  Asuras."  Eoth  (Diet.)  assigns  also  to  the  word  the  sense  of  "  streams  ;"  Which 
it  might  seem  to  be  the  function  of  Sarasvati  to  give  rather  than  lands. 


CHAEACTEEISTICS  OP  THE  DASTUS.  371 

with  foes  for  the  acquisition  of  land."  vii.  1 00,  4 :  Vichakrame  prithMm 
esha  etd^i  hshetraya  Vishnitr  manave  daiasffan  |  "This  Vishnu  traversed 
this  earth,  to  give  it  for  a  domain  to  Manu  (or  the  [Aryan]  man)." 
It  is  possiiile  that  in  these  passages,  or  in  some  of  them,  allusion  may 
be  made  to  the  occupation  of  the  plains  of  India,  and  the  subjugation 
of  the  aboriginal  tribes  by  the  Aryas,  on  their  immigration  from  the 
north-west ;  but  it  must  be  confessed  that  the  explanation  is  uncertain. 
In  E.V.,  X.  65,  11,  quoted  above  (p.  362),  there  seems  to  be  a  reference 
to  the  spread  of  Aryan  institutions. 

Second:  In  two  of  the  passages  already  quoted  (i.  51,  8,  9;  i.  130, 
8),  the  epithets  dvrata  and  apavrata,  "  devoid  of,"  or  "  opposed  to, 
religious  rites,"  or  "lawless,"  wiU  have  been  noticed  as  applied  to  the 
Dasyus.  I  proceed  to  cite  some  further  passages  in  which  the  character 
and  condition  of  the  Dasyus  (whoever  they  may  be)  are  specified. 

They  are  (1)  described  as  a  degraded  race,  i.  101,  5:  Indro  yo 
dasyun  adhardn  avdtirat  marutvantam  sakhyuya  havamahe  |  ""We 
invoke  to  be  our  friend,  Indra,  attended  bj  the  Maruts,  who  subdued 
the  base  Dasyus  "  [or,  "  subdued  and  humbled  the  Dasyus  "].^  ii.  11, 
1 8 :  BMshva  iavah  iura  yena  Vritram  avabhinad  Bdnum  Aurnmidhham  \ 
apdiirinor  jyotir  drydya  ni  savyatah  sadi  dasyur  Indra  |  "Maintain, 
0  hero,  that  strength  by  which  thou  hast  broken  down  Vritra,  Danu, 
Aurnavabha.  Thou  hast  revealed  light  to  the  Arya,  and  the  Dasyu 
has  been  set  on  thy  left  hand."^'  The  text  of  the  following,  E.V., 
ii.  12,  4,  has  been  already  given  in  p.  282  :  "  He  who  swept  away  the 
low  Dasa  colour."'*  iv.  28,  4  :  Viivasmdt  slm  adhamdn  Indra  dasyun 
viso  ddsir  akrinor  apraiastdh  \  "  Indra,  thou  hast  made  these  Dasyus 
lower  than  all,  and  the  servile  people  without  renown." 

They  are  described  (2)  as  having  either  no  religious  worship,  or  rites 
different  from  those  of  the  Aryas.  i.  33,  4,  5 :  Ay(yvdnah  Sanakdh  pretim 
lyuTi  I  j^aird  chit  iirshd  mvrijus  te  Indra  ayajvdno  yajvahhih  spmrdhamdndh\ 

"  Sayana  explains  this  of  making  the  Asuras  vile  and  slaying  them :  Asuran 
adharm  niJerishtan  kritva. 

'*  Sayana  explains  the  word  Dasyu  in  this  verse  of  the  mythical  personage 
Vritra.  The  words  ni  +  sadi,  making  together  nishadi,  present  a  curious  coincidence 
with  the  word  Nishada. 

'5  Eoth  (Diet.)  gives  the  sense  of  "removing,  putting  away,"  to  guha  Jcah. 
Sayana  explains  it  of  "  hiding  in  a  cavern."  The  word  varna,  colour,  race,  which  is 
appKed  to  the  Aryas,  iii.  34,  9,  is  here  made  use  of  in  speaking  of  the  Dasyus. 
Sayana  explains  the  latter^  either  of  the  S'udra  caste,  or  of  the  Asuras. 


372  DASTUS  HOW  DESCRIBED 

"  The  unsacrificing  Sanakas  perished.  Contending  with  the  sacrificers, 
the  non-saerificers  fled,  0  Indra,  with  averted  faoea."^'  i.  131,  4: 
S'deas  tarn  Indra  martyam  wycyyum  ityaM\  "Thou,  0  Indra,  hast 
chastised  the  mortal  who  sacrifices  not.""  i.  132,  4:  Sunvadlhyo 
randhaya  kanchid  woratam,  hrinayantam  chid  awatam  \  "  Suhject  to 
those  who  offer  libations  the  irreligious  man,  the  irreligious  man  though 
wrathful."  iv.  16,  9:  Ni  maydv&n  ahrahma  dasywr  arta  \  "The 
deceitful,  prayerless  Dasyu  has  perished."  E.V.,  v.  7,  10  :  Ad  Agne 
aprinato  'trih  sasahyad  dasyun  ishah  sasahyad  nrin  \  "  0  Agni,  may 
the  Atri  then  overcome  the  illiberal  Dasyus:  may  Isha  over- 
come the  men."  E.V.,  vi.  14,  3 :  Turvanto  dasyum  aymo  vrataih 
sihshmto  awatam  \  "  Men  subduing  the  Dasyu,  with  rites  (or  laws) 
overwhelming  the  irreligious  (or  lawless)."  v.  42,  9:  Apa/vratan 
prasme  vavridMnan  hrahma-dvuhah  suryad  yavayasva  \  "Eemove 
far  from  the  sun  the  irreligious,  the  haters  of  prayer,  who  increase  in 
progeny."  viii.  59,  10  :  Tvam  ndh  Indra  ritayus  tvanido  ni  trimpasi  | 
madhye  vasishva  twoinrimm  urvor  ni  dasam  ii^natho  hathaih  |    11  | 

^'  Sayana  describes  the  Sanakas  as  followers  of  Vritra :  Etamnamalmh  Vritra- 
nucharah.  I  cannot  say  who  may  be  meant  by  the  Sanakas  here.  They  may  have 
been  heretical  Aryaa  and  not  Dasyus.  A  Sanaka  was  a  mindbom  son  of  Brahma. 
Wilson,  Vish.  Pur.,  first  edition,  p.  38,  note  13.  Weber,  Ind.  Stud.  i.  385,  note, 
quotes  a  text  of  the  Mahabh.  xii.  13,078,  where  he  is  mentioned  as  a  sage.  Benfey 
renders  sanakah  "  old." 

"  In  i.  100,  15,  the  word  marttah,  "men,"  is  opposed  to  devah,  "gods."  The 
word  martya,  "  mortal,"  is  usually  applied  to  men.  But  from  the  following  passage 
of  the  S'atapatha-brahmana  it  appears  that  the  Asuras  also  are  regarded  as  mortal, 
and  that  the  gods  too  were  formerly  so.  ii.  2,  2,  8,  ff. :  Demscha  vai  Asarascha 
ubhaye  prajapatyah  paspridhire  \  Te  ubhrn/e  eva  (matmana  asuh,  martya  hy  asuh  | 
anStma  hi  martyah  \  Teshu  uhhayeahu  martyeshu  Agnir  eva  amrita  asa  |  Tarn  ha 
sma  ubhaye  amritam  upajivanti  ....  Tato  devas  ta/niyamsa  iva pariiUiahire  |  Te 
arehantah  iramyantas  cheruh  \  TJta  Asurm  sapatmn  martyan  abhibhavema  iti  te 
etad  amritam  agnyadheyam  dadriiuh  \  Te  ha  uehuli  |  hanta  idam  amfitam  antarat- 
mann  adadhamahai  \  Te  idam  amritam  aniaratmann  adhaya  amrita  hhutva  astaryya 
bhutva  staryan  sapatnan  martyan  abhibha/vishyama  iti.  "The  gods  and  Asuras, 
both  the  offspring  of  Prajapati,  strove  together.  They  were  both  soul-less,  for  they 
were  mortal;  for  he  who  is  soul-less  is  mortal.  While  they  were  both  mortal, 
Agni  alone  was  immortal ;  and  they  both  derived  life  from  him,  the  immortal.  .  .  . 
Then  the  gods  were  left  as  the  inferior.  They  continued  to  practise  devotion  and 
austerity,  and  (while  seeking  to)  overcome  their  foes,  the  mortal  Asuras,  they  beheld 
this  immortal  consecrated  fire.  They  then  said,  '  Come,  let  us  place  this  immortal 
(fire)  in  our  inmost  soul.  Having  done  so,  and  having  [thus]  become  immortal  and 
invincible,  we  shall  overcome  our  mortal  and  conquerable  enemies.'  "  The  gods 
accordingly  placed  the  sacred  fire  in  their  hearts,  and  by  this  means  overcame  the 
Asuras. 


IN  THE  HYMNS  OF  THE  EIGVEDA.  373 

Anyavratam  amanusham  ay<yvanam  adevaywn  \  ma  svah  sahha  dudJiitvlta 
parvatah  siighnaya  daayum  parvatah  \  "  Thou,  Indra,  lovest  our  re- 
ligious rites;  thou  tramplest  down  those  that  revile  thee;  thou, 
vigorous  hero,  guard  thyself  in  thy  vital  parts  {lit.  thighs) ;  thou  hast 
smitten  the  Dasa  with  thy  blows.  11.  Let  his  own  friend  Parvata, 
let  Parvata  strike  down  to  swift  destruction  the  Dasyu  who  observes 
different  rites,  who  is  inhuman,  who  does  not  sacrifice,  nor  regard  the 
gods."  '°  iv.  .41,  2  :  Sah/vdmso  dasyum  cwratam  \  "  Subduing  the 
irreligious  Dasyu."  ^'  x.  22,  7,  8:  A  nah  Indra  prihhase  asmakam 
hrahma  itdyatam  \  tat  tvd  yaehamahe  woah  S'ushnam  yad  kann  amanusham  | 
8  I  Akarmd  Dasyur  abhi  no  amantur  anyavrato  amanushah  \  tvam  tasya 
amiirahan  vadhar  Basyasya  dambhaya  \  "  Our  prayer,  0  Indra,  is 
lifted  up  to  thee  for  sustenance.  We  implore  of  thee  that  succour 
whereby  thou  didst  smite  the  inhuman  S'ushna.  The  Dasyu,  irre- 
ligious, foolish,  observing  other  rites,  and  inhuman,  is  against  us :  do 
thou,  0  slayer  of  our  foes,  subdue  the  weapon  of  this  Dasa." 

Another  epithet  which  is  frequently  applied  to  the  adversaries  of 
the  Vedic  bards,  or  of  their  deities  (whether  those  adversaries  may 
have  been  Aryas,  Dasyus,  or  demons),  is  "anindra,"  "without  Indra," 
"despisers  of  Indra."  It  occurs  in  the  following  texts,  E.V.,  i.  133, 
1 :  Ubhepunami  rodasi  ritena  druho  dahami  sam  mahlr  anindrah  \  "By 
sacrifice  I  purify  both  worlds,  I  consume  the  great  female-goblins 
which  regard  not  Indra."  E.V.,  iv.  23,  7  :  Bruham  jighdmsan  dkoa- 
rasam  anind/ram  tetihte  tigmd  tujase  anikd  \  "  Seeking  to  slay  the 
injurious  female-sprite  who  regards  not  Indra,  he  (Indra)  makes  his 
sharp  weapons  sharper  for  her  destruction."  E.V.,  v.  2,  3  :  Biranya- 
dantam  suchivarnam  drat  kshetrdd  apasyam  dyudhd  mimdnam  \  daddno 
asmai  amritam  viprikkat  him  mam  anindrdh  Icrina/oann  anukthdh  \ 
"From  an  adjacent   spot,  whUe  offering  to  him  the  imperishable, 

3^  I  am  indebted  to  Prof.  AufrecM  for  aid  in  the  translation  of  this  passage.  The 
epithets  of  the  Dasyu  in  the  last  verse  seem  weU  applicable  to  a  mortal ;  but  some  of 
them  recur  in  x.  22,  8.  In  verse  7  of  the  same  hymn  a  mortal  enemy  is  referred  to : 
Na  sim  adevah  apad  isham  Airghayo  martyah :  "  0  long-lived  god,  let  not  a  godless 
mortal  obtain  prosperity."  In  his  comment  on  E.V.  v.  20,  2,  Sayana  explains  the 
word  anycmrata  thus :  VaidOcad  vibhaMam  vratam  karma  yasya  tasya  Asurasya, 
"  the  Asura  whose  rites  are  different  from  those  of  the  Veda."  See  Goldstiicker,  Diet. 
8.V.  "  anyoAirata." 

S9  Benfey  in  a  note  to  his  translation  of  Samaveda,  ii.  243  (p.  251),  understands 
Dasyum,  avratam  of  Vritra,  or  the  Evil  Spirit  in  general. 


374  DASrrS  NOT  •WOESHIPPEES  OF  INDEA. 

unmingled  [fiiel  or  butter  ?],  I  beheld  [Agni]  the  golden-toothed,  the 
bright-coloured,  fashioning  his  weapons :  what  ean  those  who  regard 
not  Indra,  and  recite  no  hymns,  do  to  me  ?"  B..Y.,  vii.  18,  6:  Ardham 
virasya  kritapam  anindram  para  iairihantam.  namide  ahhi  ksham  \ 
"Indra  hurled  to  the  ground  the  half  of  the  struggling  heroes, 
drinkers  of  the  oblation,  and  disregarders  of  Indra."*"  E.V.,  x.  27, 
6 :  Varsan  nu  atra  h-itapdn  anindran  hahuhshadah  sarme  patyamandn  \ 
ghriihu/m  va  ye  niniduh  mkhayam  adhi  U  nu  eshu  pcwayo  vavrityuh  | 
"  They  beheld  here  those  who  drink  the  libation,  who  regard  not 
Indra,  who  oifer  worthless  oblations,*'  and  are  fit  victims  for  the 
thunderbolt:  the  wheels  have  rolled  over  those  who  reviled  [our] 
destroying  friend."  In  R.V.,  x.  48,  7,  Indra  speaks :  Alhldam 
ekam  eko  asmi  nishshal  ahhi  dma  Mm  u  tray  ah  karanti  \  khaU  naparshdn 
prati  ham/mi  Ihwri  Mm  ma  nindanti  mtrmo  aniindrdh  |  "Impetuous, 
I  alone  vanquish  this  one  enemy;  I  vanquish  two;  what  can  even 
three  do?  [In  battle]  I  destroy  numerous  foes  like  sheaves  of  corn 
on  the  threshing-floor.  Why  do  the  enemies  who  regard  not  Indra 
revile  me  ?"*^ 

The  following  text  speaks  of  men  who  are  destitute  of  hymns  and 
prayers,  x.  106,  8 :  Ava  no  vrijind  UsiM  richa  vanema  anriohah  \ 
ndhrahma  ycynah  ridhag  joshati  tve\  "  Take  away  our  calamities. 
"With  a  hymn  may  we  slay  those  who  employ  no  hymns.  Thou  takest 
no  great  pleasure  in  a  sacrifice  without  prayers."" 

As  we  have  seen  above  (p.  282),  there  is  some  appearance  of  an 
allusion  being  made  in  the  Veda  (3)  to  a  distinction  of  complexion 
as  existing  between  the  Aryas  and  the  aborigines.  On  this  subject  I 
quote  the  following  remarks,  made  by  Prof.  Max  MiiUer,  in  a  review 
of  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  which  originally  appeared  in  the 

*»  See  Eoth's  interpretation  of  this  Terse  in  tis  Lit.  and  Hist,  of  the  Veda,  pp.  98, 
99 ;  and  his  remarks  on  the  tribes  who  are  referred  to  in  this  hymn,  ibid.  pp.  132-5. 

*'  Prof.  Both,  s.v.  explains  hahuhshad  as  denoting  a  niggardly  worshipper  who 
offers  the  foreleg,  i.e.  a  worthless  portion  of  the  victim. 

«  See  Nirukta,  iii.  10,  and  Eoth,  Erlaiiter.,  p.  29. 

«  In  my  article  ''On  the  Eolations  of  the  Priests  to  the  other  Classes  of  Indian 
Society  in  the  Vedic  Age,"  (Journ.  Eoyal  As.  Soc,  new  series,  ii.  286,  ff.),  I  have 
quoted  numerous  texts  from  the  Eigveda  "containing  denunciations  of  religious 
hostility  or  indifference,"  in  which  "no  express  reference  is  made  to  Dasyus,"  and 
which  may  therefore,  "  with  more  or  less  prohahility,  he  understood  of  members  of  the 
Aryan  community," 


ARE  THEY  DESCEIBED  IN  THE  HYMNS  AS  BLACK?  375 

"Times"  newspaper  of  lOth  and  12th.  April,  1858,  and  has  since 
been  reprinted  in  his  "Chips,"  vol.  ii.  (see  p.  524) : — "At  the  time," 
he  says,  "when  this  name  of  'varna'  was  first  used  in  the  sense 
of  caste,  there  were  but  two  castes,  the  Aryas  and  the  non-Aryas, 
the  bright  and  the  dark  race.  This  dark  race  is  sometimes  called  by 
the  poets  of  the  Yeda  'the  black  skin.'  Rigveda,  i.  130,  8  :  '  Indra 
protected  in  battle  the  Aryan  worshipper,  he  subdued  the  lawless  for 
Manu,  h.e  conquered  the  black  skin.'  " "  (This  passage  has  been 
already  quoted,  p.  360.) 

Some  other  passages  in  which,  black- coloured  enemies  are  mentioned 
may  also  possibly  be  referrible  to  the  dark  aborigines  ;  such  as  E.V.  ii. 
20,  7,  already  quoted  (p.  369) ;  "  Indra,  the  slayer  of  Yritra  and  de- 
stroyer of  cities,  scattered  the  servile  {dasih)  [hosts]  of  black  descent." 
But  Prof.  Eoth  (in  his  Lex.),  explains  this  last  expression,  Icrishnayonih, 
as  well  as  Icrishnagarhhah,  in  R.Y.  i.  101,  1,  as  descriptive  of  the 
black  clouds.  The  latter  of  these  two  phrases  is  similarly  understood 
by  M.  Eegnier  in  his  Etude  sur  I'ldiome  des  Vedas,  p.  154.  In  E.V. 
iv.  16,  13,  mention  is  made  of  Pipru  and  Mrigaya  being  subjected  to 
Eiji^van,  son  of  Vidathin,  and  of  50,000  black  beings  (explained 
by  the  commentator  as  Eakshases)  being  destroyed  by  Indra,  as 
old  age  destroys  the  body.  {Tvam  Pipvum  Mrigayaru  iusavamsam 
Rijisvane  VaidatMnaya  randhlh  |  panchasat  hrishna  ni  vapah  sahasra 
atham  na  pwo  ja/rimd  vi  dardah  \  )  These,  also,  are  perhaps  to  be  re- 
garded as  aerial  foes.^^  See  also  Professor  Benfey's  explanation  of  E.V. 
viii.  85,  15,  in  his  translation  of  the  Samaveda,  i.  323,  p.  228.     In 

•*  This  phrase,  "the  black  skin,"  occurs  also  in  E.V.  ix.  41,  1,  a  text  which 
reappears  in  the  Samaveda,  i.  491,  and  ii.  242.  The  words  are  Fra  ye  gam  na 
hhurnayaa  tveshah  ayaso  akramuh,  gJmimtah  krishnam  apa  tvaeham;  which  are  thus 
rendered  by  Professor  Benfey  :  "  The  flaming,  the  tempestuous  [gods],  approach  like 
furious  bulls,  and  chase  away  the  black  skin."  In  a  note  he  adds  the  explanation : 
"  The  Maruts  (winds)  chase  the  clouds."  In  his  Glossary  to  the  S.Y.,  the  same 
author  explains  the  phrase ."  black  skin  "  by  "  night."  A  similar  expression,  tvaoham 
asikntm,  occurs  in  R.Y.  ix.  73,  5 :  Indra-dvishtam  apa  dhamcmti  mayaya  tvacham 
ttsiknim  ihumcmo  divas  pari  |  "By  their  might  they"  (I  cannot  say  who  [qu.  Maruts f] 
are  here  referred  to)  "  sweep  away  from  the  sky  the  black  skin  of  the  earth,  hated  of 
Indra."  So  Benfey  translates  this  line  in  his  Glossary,  s.v.  asikm.  But  perhaps 
the  words  "black  skin"  should  not  be  construed  with  the  word  "earth."  The  con- 
struction may  be,  "  from  earth  and  sky." 

*5  Compare  Prof.  Wilson's  Translation  and  R.Y.  i.  101,  as  well  as  the  Introduction 
to  his  R.Y.,  vol.  iii,,  pp.  viii,  ix,  xiv  and  xv. 


376  EPITHETS  APPLIED  TO  THE  DASTCS. 

the  following  text  allusion  is  made  to  black  tribes  of  some  kind :  E.V. 
vu.  5,  3  :  Tvad-bMyd  viSah  ayann  asiknir  mamanah  jahatlr  iJioJandm  \ 
Vmivanara  purtwe  hsuoMnah  puro  yad  Agne  darayann  adldeh  \  "  For 
fear  of  thee  the  black  tribes  fled,  scattered,  relinquishing  their  pos- 
sessions, when  thou,  Agni  Vaisvanara,  gleaming  in  behalf  of  Puru  [or 
the  man],  didst  tear  and  burn  the  cities."  Prof.  Eoth  (Lexicon,  s.  v. 
"mikni")  explains  the  words  "black  tribes"  as  meaning  "spirits  of 
darkness."  A  similar  phrase  occurs  in  R.V.  viii.  62,  18:  Puram  na 
dhrishno  aruja  Jcrishnayd  iadhito  viia  \  "  0  impetuous,  break  down  as  it 
were  a  rampart,  being  harassed  by  the  black  race."  It  is  not  clear  who 
is  here  apostrophized ;  or  what  dark-coloured  enemies  are  referred  to. 

There  are  (4)  some  passages  in  which  the  epithet  "  mridhravach " 
is  applied  to  the  speech  of  the  Dasyus.  If  it  were  certain  that  the 
aboriginal  tribes  were  alluded  to  in  all  or  in  any  of  these  texts,  and 
that  the  adjective  in  question  had  reference  to  any  peculiarity  in  their 
language,  the  fact  would  be  one  of  the  highest  interest;  but  un- 
fortunately both  points  are  doubtful."  The  following  are  the  passages 
alluded  to: — E.V.  i.  174,  2:  Dano  viSah  Indra  mridhravachah  sa/pta 
yat  purah  sarma  iaradir  dart  \  rinor  apo  anavadya  arnah  yune  Vritram 
PwruhaUaya  randhih]  "When  thou,  0  Indra,  our  defence,  didst 
destroy  the  seven  autumnal  castles,  thou  didst  subdue  the  people  of 
injurious  speech.  Thou,  blameless  one,  hast  impelled  the  flowing 
waters:  thou  hast  subjected  Vritra  to  the  youthful  Purukntsa." 
E.V.  V.  29,  10  :  Pra  anyaeh  ohaJcram  cmrihah  Suryasya  KuUaya  anyad 
varivo  yatme  hah  \  anaso  Dmyun  amrinor  vadhena  ni  dm-yone  avrinan 
mridhravachah]  "Thou  didst  detach  one  wheel  of  Surya :  the  other 
thou  didst  set  free  to  go  for  Kutsa.  Thou  hast  with  thy  weapon 
smitten  the  monthlesa  [or  noseless]  Dasyus :  in  their  abode  thou  hast 
beaten  down  the  injuriously  speaking  people."  v.  32,  8 :  Tyam  chid 
arnam  madhwpafh  iaySMam  asinvam  va/vram  mahi  adad  ugrah  \  apddam 
atram  mahatd  vadhena  ni  dwyone  dvrinan  mridhravdeham  \  "The 
fierce  [Indra]  seized  that  huge,  restless  [Vritra],  the  drinker  up  of 
the  sweets,  reclining,  insatiable,  the  hidden ;  and  beat  down  in  his 
abode  with  a  great  weapon,  that  footless,  devouring,  and  injuriously- 

*6  The  Athaivaveda  xii.  1,  45,  refers  to  the  earth  as  "  sustaining  men  of  very 
rarious  forms  of  speech  and  customs ;  each  dwelling  in  their  own  abodes  "  (Janam 
bibh/ratl  bahudha  vivachasam  nanadharmanam  pritUvi  yaihaukasam). 


EPITHETS  APPLIED  TO  THE  DASTUS.  377 

speaking  [demon]."  vii.  6,  3 :  Ni  dkratun  grathino  mridhravdchah. 
Panin  airaddhan  mridhdn  wyajndn  \  pra  pra  tan  Basyun  Agnir  vimaya 
purvai  chakara  apa/ran  ayajyUn  \  "The  senseless,  false,  injuriously- 
speaking,  unbelieving,  unpraising,  unworshipping  Panis  (or  niggards)  ; 
ttese  Dasyus  Agni  removed  far  off.  It  was  he  wlio  first  made  the 
irreligious  degraded."  vii.  18,  13 :  Vi  sadyo  vihd  drimhitani  esham 
Ind/rah  purah  sahasd  sapta  dardah  \  vi  Anwoasya  Tritsave  gayam  ihdg 
j'eshma  Purum  vidathe  mridhramddham  \  "  Indra  straightway  shattered 
all  their  strongholds,  their  seven  castles  by  his  violence :  he  divided 
to  the  Tritsu  the  substance  of  the  Anava :  we  vanquished  in  the  fight 
the  injuriously-speaking  Puru  [or  man]." 

The  word  "mridhravach,"  which  I  have  rendered  "injuriously- 
speaking,"  is  explained  by  Say  ana  (in  his  comments  on  three  of  these 
passages)  as  meaning  "one  whose  organs  of  speech  are  destroyed" 
(himsita-vdgindriya,  or  Mmsita-vaohaska).  On  i.  174,  2,  he  interprets 
it  as  ma/rsham-vachandh,  "  speaking  patiently,"  ("  suing  for  pardon," 
Wilson),  and  on  vii.  18,  13,  by  hddhavdcham,  "speaking  so  as  to  vex," 
("iU-speaking,"  "Wilson).  The  same  term  is  rendered  by  WUson,  in 
his  translation  of  the  second  and  third  passages,  by  "speech-bereft," 
or  "speechless."  Eoth,  in  his  "Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta,"  p.  97, 
rejects  the  explanation  of  Taska  (who  (Nir.  vi.  31)  renders  "mridhra- 
vachah"  by  "mriduvachah,"  "softly-speaking,"),  and  considers  that  it 
means  "speaking injuriously."  Dr.Euhn,  again  (Herabkunft des Feuers, 
p.  60),  is  of  opinion  that  the  epithet  in  question  means  "a  stutterer;'" 
and  thinks  that,  in  R.V.  v.  29,  10,  reference  is  made  to  the  gradual 
dying  away  of  the  distant  thunder,  which  is  regarded  as  the  voice  of  the 
vanquished  demon.  In  treating  of  the  aboriginal  races  of  India,  Prof. 
Miiller  (Last  Eesults  of  Turanian  Eesearches,  p.  346  :  see,  below,  pp. 
389,  ff.)  remarks,  that  "the  '  anasas,'  enemies,  whom  Indra  killed  with 
his  weapon  (E.V.  v.  29,  10),  are  probably  meant  for  noseless  (a-nasas), 
not,  as  the  commentator  supposes,  for  faceless  (an-asas)  people.  (See 
also  the  article  of  the  same  author  already  alluded  to  in  p.  375.) 
Professor  Wilson,  on  the  other  hand,  remarks  (E.V.,  vol.  iii.,  p.  276, 
note):  "Andsa,  Sayana  says,  means  dsyarahitdn,  devoid  of,  or  deprived 
of,  words;  day  a,  face  or  mouth,  being  put  by  metonymy  for  iabda, 
the  sound  that  comes  from  the  mouth,  articulate  speech,  alluding 
possibly  to  the  uncultivated  dialects  of  the  barbarous  tribes,  barbarism 

VOL.  II.  25 


378  CASTLES  OP  THE  DASTtTS. 

and  uncultivated  speech  being  identical,  in  tte  opinion  of  the  Hindus, 
as  in  the  familiar  term  for  a  barbarian,  '  mlechha,'  which  is  derived 
from  the  root,  mleokh,  to  speak  rudely;"  and  adds,  in  reference  to 
Professor  Miiller's  proposed  interpretation  of  mdsa:  "The  proposal 
is  ingenious,  but  it  seems  more  likely  that  Sayana  is  right,  as  we  have 
the  Dasyus  presently  called  also  mridhravachas,  ....  having  de- 
fective organs  of  speech." 

There  are  only  two  of  the  four  preceding  passages  containing  the 
word  mridkravaoh,  in  which  the  Dasyus  are  named  ;  and  in  the  second 
of  these  two  texts  (R.V.  vii.  6,  3)  this  word  is  applied  to  persons  or 
beings  called  pani,  who  are  either  niggards,  or  the  mythical  beings  who 
stole  the  cows  of  the  gods  or  the  Angirases,  and  hid  them  in  a  cave. 
(See  WUson's  R.V.  vol.  i.  pp.  16,  17,  note.)"  In  any  case,  the  sense 
of  the  word  mridhrmaeh  is  too  uncertain  to  admit  of  our  referring  it 
with  confidence  to  any  peculiarity  in  the  speech  of  the  aborigines. 

In  the  R.V.  frequent  mention  is  made  (5)  of  the  cities  or  castles  of 
the  Dasyus,  or  of  the  Asiiras.  One  of  these  passages,  i.  103,  3,  has 
been  already  quoted  in  p.  359.  The  following  are  additional  instances : 
R.V.  i.  51,  5  :  Toam  Pipror  nrimanah  prdrujah  pwrah  prq,  Rijiivanam 
Basyu-hatyeshu  avitha  \  "  Benevolent  to  men,  thou  hast  broken  the 
castles  of  Pipru,  and  protected  Rijiivan  in  his  battles  with  the  Dasyus." 
R.V.  i.  63,  7 :  Toam  ha  tyad  Indra  sapta  yudhyan  puro  vajrin  Fwuk- 
utsdya  dardah  \  "  Thou,  0  Indra,  thunderer,  fighting  for  Purukutsa, 
didst  destroy  then  seven  castles."  i.  174,  8:  Bhinat  puro  na  bhido 
adevir  nanamo  vadhmr  adevasya  piyoh  \  "  Thou  hast  pierced  the  godless 
piercers  like  their  castles :  thou  hast  bowed  down  the  weapon  of  the 
godless  destroyer."  ii.  14,  6 :  Yah  iatam  S'anibarasya  pwro  lihheda 
akmaneva  pwrvih\  "Who  split  the  hundred,  the  numerous,  castles  of 
S'ambara  as  with  a  thunderbolt."  ii.  19,  6 :  Dwodasdyanavatim  oha  nova 
Indrah pwo  vi  airach  Chhambaraiya  \  "Indra  shattered  for  Divodasa  a 
hundred  castles  of  S'ambara."  iii.  12,  6 :  Indragnl  navatim  puro  ddsa- 
pafmr  adhunutam  \  salcam  ekena  karmana  |  "Indra  and  Agni,  by  one  efibrt 
together,  ye  have  shattered  ninety  castles  belonging  to  the  Dasyus." 
iv.  26,  3  :  Aham  puro  mandmdno  vi  airam  nava  sdkafft  navatih  S'amia- 

"  See  Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  s.v.  pani,  where  E.V.  vii.  6,  3,  is  cited  among  the 
texts  where  the  word  means  "niggard;"  and  comp.  my  art.  on  the  "Priests  in  the 
Vedic  Age,"  Jonrn.  E.  A.  S.  for  1866,  p.  290. 


CASTLES  OP  THE  DASTTJS.  379 

rasya  \  S'atatamam  ve&yafh  sarvatdtd  Bivoddsam  Atithigvam  yad  avam  \ 
"  Exhilarated,  I  have  destroyed  at  once  the  ninety-nine  castles  of 
S'ambara :  the  hundredth  habitation  (remained)  in  security,  when  I 
protected  Divodasa  Atithigva."**  vi.  31,  4:  Tvam  ^atdni  ava  S'am- 
barasya  pitro  jaffontha  aprattm  dasyoh  |  "  Thou  hast  destroyed  hundreds 
of  unequalled  castles  of  the  Dasyu  Sfambara."  The  foUowiag  verse 
seems  to  show  that  by  these  castles,  as  ■well  as  by  mountains,  clouds 
are  meant : — x.  89,  7  :  JagKdna  Vritram  svadkUir  vaneva  rwoj'a  pwo 
aradad  na-sindhun\  hibheda  girim  navarh  in  na  kumhham  a  gdh  Indro 
ahrinuta  svayuglhih  \  "  Indra  smote  Vritra  as  an  axe  (fells)  the  woods  ; 
he  broke  down  the  castles,  he  as  it  were  hollowed  out  the  rivers.  He 
split  the  mountain  like  a  new  jar ;  he  possessed  himself  of  the  cows, 
with  his  companions." 

Iron  castles  are  spoken  of  in  the  following  passage  :  ii.  20,  8  :  Prati 
yad  asya  vajram  hahvor  dhv/r  hatvl  dasyun  puralj,  dyasir  nitdrit  I 
"  "When  they  placed  the  thunderbolt  in  his  (Indra's)  hand,  he  slew  the 
Dasyus,  and  overthrew  their  iron  castles."*' 

In  the  following  texts  "autumnal  castles"  are  spoken  of: — i.  131,  4  : 
Vidus  te  asya  vlryasya  puravo  puro  yad  Indra  kdradir  avdtirah  \  sdsa- 
hdno  avdtirah  \  sasas  tarn  Indra  martyam  ayajyufh  kavasaspate  \  "Men 
know  this  heroism  of  thine,  that  thou  hast  overthrown  the  autumnal 
castles,  violently  overthrown  them.  Lord  of  power,  thou  hast  chastised 
the  mortal  who  sacrifices  not."""  (See  also  K.T.  i.  174,  2,  which  has 
been  quoted  in  p.  376.)  vi.  20,  10  :  Sapta  yat  pttrah  sarma  sdradir 
dart  han  ddslh  PwruTcutsdya  sihhan\     "  When  thou,  our  defence,  didst 

*'  See  Kuhn's  Herabkunft  des  Feuers,  p.  140,  and  note.  Benfey  in  his  excursus 
on  sarvatSti,  Or.  und  Oco.  ii.  524,  renders  "  the  hundredth  dwelling  in  safety,  when  I 
was  gracious  to  the  pious  Divodasa."  The  words  "in  safety"  may,  he  says,  refer 
to  Indra,  or  to  the  hundredth  city  which  he  did  not  destroy ;  and  he  refers,  as  Kuhn 
also  does,  to  E.V.  vii.  19,  5. 

*^  Mention  is  also  made  of  iron  castles  or  ramparts  in  the  following  texts  :  E.V. 
It.  27,  1 ;  vii.  3,  7  ;  vii.  15,  14 ;  vii.  95,  1  ;  viii.  89,  8  ;  and  x.  101,  8  ;  but  not  in 
connexion  with  the  Dasyus. 

51  The  "autumnal"  castles  may  mean  the  brilliant  battlemented  cloud-castles, 
which  are  so  often  visible  in  the  Indian  sky  at  this  period  of  the  year.  Sayana 
in  loco  explains  the  term  thus :  S'aradth  aamvatsara-sambandhinih  samvatsara- 
parycmtam  prakara-parikhadibhir  dridlilleritah  purah  s'atrunum  purlh  \  "The 
enemies'  annual  cities,  fortified  for  a  year  with  ramparts,  ditches,  etc. ;"  but  see 
next  note. 


380  CASTLES  OP  THE  GODS  AND  AStTRAS 

break  down  tlie  seven  autumnal  castles,  tlion  didst  slay  the  Dasa 
(people),  showing  favour  to  Pnrukutsa."  " 

The  epithet  sasvat  is  applied  to  castles  in  the  following  text.  This 
■word  means,  as  is  well  known,  "constant,"  " perpetual,"  .but  accord- 
ing to  the  Mghantus  it  has  the  meaning  of  "many;"  and  Sayana 
generally  understands  it  in  this  sense,  viii.  17,  14.:  Bra/pso  Ihetta 
puram  iasvatindm  Indro  mumndm  saha  I  "  The  drop  (of  Soma)  is  the 
splitter  of  many  (or  of  the  perpetual)  castles.  Indra  is  the  friend  of 
sages."  viii.  8.7,  6  :  Tvam  hi Aaivatinam  Indra  darta  pwramasi]  hcmtd 
dasyor  manor  vridhah  patir  dwah  |  "  Thou,  Indra,  art  the  destroyer 
of  many  (or  the  perpetual)  castles,  the  slayer  of  the  Dasyn,  the  bene- 
factor of  man,  the  lord  of  the  sky."  ^'  Castles  of  stone  are  mentioned 
in  one  passage,  iv.  30,  20  :  S'atam  akmanmayinam  pwdm  Indro  vi  asyat 
Divoddsaya  ddiushe  |  "  Indra  has  thrown  down  a  hundred  castles  built 
of  stone,  for  his  worshipper  Divodasa."^'  In  R.V.  viii.  1,  28,  men- 
tion is  made  of  a  "  moving"  castle  :  Toam  pur  aw,  cha/rishnvam  vadhaih 
S'ushnasya  sampinaTc]  "Thou  hast  shattered  with  thy  bolts  the  moving 
castle  of  S'ushna."  ^ 

The  castles  referred  to  in  these  Yedic  hymns  were,  in  later  times, 
at  least,  understood  of  castles  of  the  Asuras  ;  and  the  following  legend 
was  iuvented  to  explain  what  they  were.  In  the  Commentary  on  the 
Yajasaneyi-Sanhita  of  the  Tajurveda,  the  following  passage  occurs  : 
Atra  iyam  dhhydyikd  asti  \  devaih  pa/rdjitdh  asurds  tapas  faptvd  trai- 
lokye  trini  purdni  ohahrur  lohamayim  hhumau  rdj'atim  antorihhe 
haimim  divt  \  tadd  devais  tdh  dagdhum  wpamdd  Agnir  drddhitah  \  tatah 
upasad-devatd-rupo  ^gnir  yadd  tdsu  purshu  praviSya  tdh  daddha  tadd 
tisrahpuro  'gnes  tanavo  'bhuvafi\  tad  ahhipretya  ayam  mantrah  \  "On 
this  ,text.[Vaj.  Sanh.  6,  8],  the  following  story  is  told: — The  Asuras 

5'  Sayana,  in  Ms  note  on  this  Terse,  explains  the  word  Saradih  differently,  as 
iaran-namnah  amrasya  samlcmdhinth  \  "Belonging  to  an  Asura  called  S'arad." 
Sayana  renders  the  word  a'm-ma  in  this  passage  by  "  with  thy  thunderbolt."  In  his 
note  on  E.V.  i.  174,  2,  he  had  previously  rendered  it  by  "  for  our  happiness."  I 
have  ventured  to  render  it  "  our  defence." 

62  In  E.V.  viii.  84,  3,  we  find  the  same  epithet  applied  to  persons :  Tvam  hi 
dasvatmam  patih  raja  vis'am  asi  \    "  Thou  art  the  lord,  the  king  of  many  peoples." 

63  Sayana  interprets  asmanmaymam  by  pashanair  nirmitanam,  "  buUt  of  stone," 
and  says  they  were  the  cities  of  S'ambara. 

M  It  appears  that  moving  cloud-castles  are  here  meant. 


ACCOEDlNG  TO  THE  BRAHMAITAS.  381 

having  been  vanquished  by  the  gods,  performed  austerities,  arid  built 
three  castles  in  the  three  worlds, — one  of  iron  on  the  earth,  one  of 
silver  in  the  atmosphere,  and  one  of  gold  in  the  sky.  Then  Agni  was 
supplicated  by  the  gods  to  burn  these  castles  with  the  upasad.  In 
consequence,  Agni,  in  the  form  of  the  upasad  deity,  entered  these  castles, 
and  burned  them.  Then  these  castles  became  the  bodies  of  Agni.  It 
is  to  this  that  this  Mantra  (text)  has  reference."  ^^  The  S'atapatha- 
brahmana  (iii.  4,  4,  3,  ff.)  has  the  following  passage  on  the  same 
subject : — Bevai  eha  vai  asurai  eha  uhhaye  prajapatyah  paspridhire  \ 
tato  hurah  eshu  loheshu  purai  chahrire  ayasmayim  eva  asmin  lake  raja- 
tam  antarihahe  harinim  divi  \  tad  vai  devdh  asprinvata  \  te  etabhir  upa- 
sadlhir  upasidan  |  tad  yad  vpasldams  tasmdd  wpasado  nama  \  te  purah 
prabhindann  iman  lohan  prajayan  |  tasmad  ahwr  "  wpamdd  pwram 
jayanti"  iti\  "The  gods  and  Asuras,  who  were  both  the  offspring  of 
Prajapati,  contended  together.  Then  the  Asuras  constructed  castles  in 
these  worlds,  one  of  iron  in  this  world,  one  of  silver  in  the  atmosphere, 
and  one  of  gold  in  the  sky.  The  gods  were  envious  of  this.  They 
sat  near  (upa-mldcm)  with  these  '  upasads '  [ceremonies  so  called,  or 
sieges]  ;  and  from  their  thus  sitting  the  name  of  '  upasad '  originated. 
They  smote  the  cities,  and  conquered  these  worlds.  Hence  the  saying 
that  men  conquer  a  city  with  an  '  upasad.'  "  In  the  sequel  of  the 
same  passage,  iii.  4,  4,  14,  it  is  said:  Vqfram  eva  etat  samsharoti 
Agnim  anikam  Somam  ialyam  Vishnum  Iculmalam  \  "He  thus  prepares 
the  thunderbolt,  making  Agni  the  shaft.  Soma  the  iron,  Yishnu  the 
point."  ^     (See  also  Weber's  Ind.  Stud.  ii.  310.) 

The  Aitareya  Brahmanai.  23  gives  the  following  variation  of  the  story : 
Devaswrah  vai  eshu  lokeshu  samayata/nta  |  te  vai  aswrah  iman  eva  lohan 
puro  'Mrvata  yatha  ojiydmso  lallyamsah  \  evam  te  vai  ayasmayim  eva 
imam  akwrvata  rajatdm  antariksham  harimm  divarh  te  tathd  iman  lokdn 
puro  'kwrvata\  te  devdh  ahruvan  "puro  vai  ime  'surah  imdn  lokdn  ahrata\ 
pwrah  imdn  lokdn prati karavdmahai"  iti  "  tathd"  ifi\  te  sadah  eva  asydh 

56  The  reference  here  is  to  the  text  of  the  V.S.  5,  8,  which  contains  the  words 
ya  te  Agm  ayahia/yS,  tanuh;  ya  te  agne  rajahiaya  tanuh;  ya  te  agne  hariiaya 
tanuh :  "  The  body  of  thine,  Agni,  which  reposes  in  iron ;  which  reposes  in  silver ; 
which  reposes  in  gold."  The  '  npasad '  was  a  festival,  part  of  the  jyotishtoma, 
which  was  kept  for  several  days.     See  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's  Lexicon. 

^  The  Commentary  says ;  "  amkam "  vajrasya  mukha-pradesah  \  solym  tatah 
purvo  bhagalh  "kuhnalcm".  tatpuoAha-bhagali  |. 


382     CASTLES  OF  THE  GODS  AND  ASURAS  AGCORDING 

pratyakwvata  agnldhram  antwrihshad  hcwirdhdne  divas  tathd  iman  lokdn 
purah pratyakv/rvata\te  devah  abrmann  "ypasadah  v/payama  iipasadavai 
mahdpuramjayanti"  iti  "tathd"  iti\  te  yam  eoa  prathamdm  wpamdam 
upayams  taya  eva  endn  asmdl  lokdd  omudanta  ydfh  dvitiydrh  tayd  'nfarik- 
shdd  yam  tritlydm  tayd  divah  \  tarns  tathd  ebhyo  hkehhyo  'nudanta. 
"  The  gods  aud  Asuras  strove  together  in  these  ■worlds.  The  Asuras 
made  these  worlds  into  castles,  as  strong  and  powerful  persons  do. 
Thus  they  made  this  earth  a  eastle  of  iron,  the  air  one  of  silver,  and 
the  sky  one  of  gold :  thus  did  they  make  these  worlds  castles.  The 
gods  said  :  "  These  Asuras  have  made  these  worlds  into  castles ;  let  us 
in  turn  make  of  them  counter-castles.'  (The  other  gods  said)  '  so  be 
it.'  They  (accordingly)  made  out  of  this  earth  a  sitting-room  "  {sadas), 
out  of  the  air  a  fire-altar,  and  out  of  the  sky  two  receptacles  of  obla- 
tions :  thus  they  made  these  worlds  into  counter-castles.  The  gods 
said,  'let  us  enter  upon  sieges  {upasadah),^  for  by  siege  men  conquer  a 
great  fort.'  (The  other  gods  said)  '  so  be  it.'  By  the  first  siege  on 
which  they  entered  they  drove  them  (the  Asuras)  from  this  earth,  by 
the  second  from  the  air,  and  by  the  third  from  the  sky.  So  they  drove 
them  from  these  worlds." 

Further  on,  in  section  25  of  the  same  chapter,  the  Aitareya  Brah- 
mana  says : — Tshum  vai  etdm  devdh  samaskurvata  yad  upasadah  \  tasydh 
A.gnir  anilcam  ant  Somah  salyo  Vishnus  tejanafh  Varunah  parndni  \ 
tdm  djyadhanvdno  'srijams  tayd  puro  ihindantah  dyan\  "The  gods 
prepared  this  arrow,  the  Upasads.  Agni  was  its  shaft,  Soma  was  its 
iron,  Vishnu  was  its  point,  Varuna  its  feathers.  Using  the  ajya  for 
a  bow,  they  discharged  this  arrow,  and  went  forward  shattering  the 
castles." 

The  Taittirlya  Sanhita,  vi.  2,  3  (as  quoted  in  the  commentary  on  an 
earlier  part  of  the  same  work,  Bibl.  Ind.,  Black  Tajurveda,  in  the 
first  volume,  page  390,  f.),  thus  relates  the  story,  combining  the  parts 
of  the  narrative  which  are  separated  in  the  two  other  Brahmanas  : — 
Teshdm  asurdndm  tisrah  purah  dsan  \  ayasmayl  avamd  'tha  rafatd  'tha 
harini  \  tdh  devdh  jetum  nd^ahnv/oan  \  tdh  upasadd  eva  afiglshm  \  tasmdd 
dhur  "  yai  chaivam  veda  yaS  cha  na  upasadd  vai  tnahdpwam  jayanti"  iti  \ 

"  This  is  Prof.  Haug's  rendering.    See  his  note,  Transl.  of  Ait.  Br.  p.  51. 
68  "  There  is  throughout  this  chapter  a  pun  between  the  two  meanings  of  upasad, 
'  siege,'  and  a  certain  ceremony  "  [so  called]  "  observahle." — Haug,  p.  62. 


TO  THE  BRAHMANAS  AND  ATHAEVAVEDA.  383 

te  ishufh,  samaslcvrvata  Agnim  aniTcam  Somam  ialya^  Viahnu^t  tejanam  \  fe 
'brman  "  kah  imam  asisyati"  iti  \  "  Rudmh"  ity  abru/oan\  "Hudrovai 
krurah  so  'ast/atv"  iti  \  so  'iravid  "vara&  vrinai  aham  eva  paiundm 
adhipatir  asani"  iti  \  tasmad  Rudrah  pa^iindm  adhipatih  \  ta/fh,  Rudro 
'vasrijat  |  sa  tisrah  puro  bhitva  ebhyo  loTcebhyo  'swran  prdmdata  \ 
"  These  Asuras  had  three  castles,  the  lowest  one  of  iron,  next  one  of 
silver,  and  then  one  of  gold.  The  gods  were  unable  to  conquer  these. 
They  sought  to  capture  them  by  siege  (or  by  an  upasad).  Hence  men 
say,  '  he  who  knows,  and  he  who  does  not  know,  this,  both  conquer  a 
great  fort  by  siege.'  They  prepared  an  arrow,  making  A  gni  the  wooden 
shaft.  Soma  the  iron,  and  Yishnu  the  point.''  They  said,  '  who  shall 
shoot  this  arrow  ?'  '  Eudra,'  they  said ;  '  Kudra  is  cruel,  let  him  shoot 
it.'  He  (Kudra)  said,  '  let  me  ask  a  boon ;  let  me  be  the  lord  of  cattle 
(or  victims).'  Hence  Eudra  is  the  lord  of  cattle.  He  discharged  the 
arrow,  and  having  shattered  the  three  castles,  drove  the  Asuras  from 
these  worlds." "'' 

The  Atharvaveda,  v.  28,  9,  f.,  speaks  of  three  castles  of  the  gods: — 
Divas  tvd patu  haritam  madhyat  tvd  patu  arjunam\hhumydh  ayasmayam 
patu  pragdd  devapwrdh  ayam  \  imds  tisro  devapurds  tds  tvd  raJcshantu 
sarvatah  \  "  May  the  golden  protect  thee  from  the  sky,  the  silver  from 
the  air,  the  iron  from  the  earth :  this  man  has  reached  the  castles  of  the 
gods.     May  these  three  castles  of  the  gods  preserve  thee  continually." 

Another  text  speaks  of  the  castles  of  the  Asuras,  Atharvaveda,  x. 
6,  10:  Tambibhrachchandramdhmanimasurdndmpuro'Jayadddnavdndm 
hiranmayih  \  "  Holding  that  gem,  the  Moon  captured  the  golden  castles 
of  the  Asuras,  sons  of  Danu." 

And  verse  20  of  the  same  hymn  says :  Tair  medino  Angiraso  Dasyundm 
hihhiduh puras  tena  tvam  dvishato jahi  \  "Allied  with  them  (the  Athar- 
vans)  the  Angirases  shattered  the  castles  of  the  Dasyus :  with  it  do 
thou  slay  thine  enemies." 

In  several  texts  Dasyus  are  mentioned  in  connexion  with  mountains. 
Thus  in  E.V.,  ii.  12,  11,  we  have  the  words,  Tah  Sambaram  parvat- 
eshu  kshiyantam  chatvdrimiydm  hradi  anvcwindat  \  "  "Who  discovered 

''  Comm.  p.  391 :  Amka-iabdo  banasya  prathama-bhagam  kashtham  aehashte 
s'ah/a-iabclo  loham  tejcma-iabdas  tad-agram. 

»"  See  the  version  of  the  same  story,  given  in  the  Anusasaaa  parva  of  the 
Mahabharata,  as  quoted  in  vol.  iv.  of  this  work,  pp.  168,  f. ;  and  at  much  greater 
length  in  the  Earna  parra,  tt.  1407,  ff. 


384  WEALTH  OF  THE  DASTUS. 

S'ambara  living  in  the  mountains  in  the  fortieth  autumn ; ''  and  in  i.  130, 
7  :  BMnat  pwo  naoatim  Iniru  Purave  Bwodasaya  mahi  ddiu&he  nrito 
vyrem  dasushe  nritah  \  Atithigvdya  S'ambaro/m  gi/rer  ugro  avalharat  \ 
maho  dhanani  dayamanah  ojasa  viiva  dhanani  ojaad  |  "  0  Indra,  impetuous, 
thou  didst  shatter  by  thy  holt  ninety-nine  cities  for  Puru  (or  the 
man),  for  the  very  liberal  sacrificer  Divodasa; — ^impetuous, — for  the 
.  liberal  sacrificer.  Fierce,  he  hurled  down  S'ambara  from  the  moun- 
tain for  the  sake  of  Atithigva,  bestowing  great  wealth  by  his  power, 
all  wealth  by  his  power."  iv.  30, 14  :  Uta  dasafh  Kaulitmam  Irihatah 
pa/rvatad  adhi  \  <maliann  Indra  S'amlaram  \  "  Thou,  Indra,  didst  oast 
down  the  Dasa  S'ambara,  son  of  Kulitara,  from  the  great  mountain." 
vi.  26,  5  :  Ava  girer  dasarh  S'amharam  han  pravo  Dimdasam  \  "Thou 
didst  hurl  down  the  Dasa  S'ambara  from  the  mountain,  thou  didst 
preserve  Divodasa." 

The  wealth  or  property  of  the  Dasyus  or  Asuras  is  spoken  of  in 
various  places.  Thus  in  i.  33,  4  :  Vadhtr  hi  dasyum  dhaninam  ghmena 
■eka^  charann  wpa  sahehhir  Indra  |  "  Thou,  0  Indra,  advancing  singly, 
hast  slain  the  wealthy  Dasyu,  together  with  his  allies,  with  thy 
destructive  weapon.""  i.  176,  4:  Asunvantam  samam  jahi  dunasam. 
yo  na  te  mayah  \  asmabhyam  asya  vedanam  daddhi  suris  chid  ohate  \ 
"Kill  aU  those  who  make  no  oblations,  though  difficult  to  destroy, 
and  who  cause  thee  no  gladness ;  give  us  their  wealth :  the  worshipper 
expects  it."  ii.  15,4:  Sa pravolhrin  parigatyd  DabhlUr  viivam  adhag 
ayudham  iddhe  agnau  \  sa  gohhir  ahair  asrijad  rathebhih  \  "  Surround- 
ing those  (Asuras)  who  had  carried  away  Dabhiti,  he  burned  all 
their  weapons  in  the  blazing  fire,  and  presented  him  with  cows, 
horses,  and  chariots."  iv.  30,  13 :  Uta  S'ushmshya  dhrishnuya 
pramrilcsho  abhi  vedanam  \  pwo  yad  asya  sampinak  |  "  Thou  didst 
boldly  sweep  away  the  wealth  of  S'ushna,  when  thou  didst  shatter 
his  castles."  viii.  40,  6 :  Api  vriScha  pwana-vad  vratater  iva  gush- 
piiam  \  ojo  dasasya  dambhaya  \  vayam  tad  asya  sambhritaih  vasu  Ind/rena 
vibhajemahi  \  "  Eoot  up,  as  of  old,  like  (a  tree)  overgrown  by  a  creep- 
ing plant ;  subdue  the  might  of  the  Dasa ;  may  we  through  [or  with] 

*i  Sayana  remarks  on  this  verse  :  "  The  Vajasaneyins  distinctly  record  the  wealth 
[of  Vritra]  in  these  words ;  '  Vrittrasyantah  sane  demli  sarmicha  vidyah  sarmni 
hammahi  cha  asan  :  In  Vritra  were  contained  all  the  gods,  all  the  sciences,  and  all 
oblations.'  " 


NAMES  OF  SOME  OF  THE  DASTUS.  385 

Indra  divide  his  collected  ■wealth."  x.  6&,  6 :  Sam  agrya  parvatya 
vasuni  dasa  vritrani  arya  jigetha  \  "Thou  hast  conquered  the  property, 
whether  situated  in  the  plains  or  hills,  (thou  hast  conquered)  the  Dasa 
and  the  Arya  enemies." 

In  the  following  and  numerous  other  texts  (as  well  as  iu  some  of 
the  preceding),  various  Dasyus,  or  at  least  adversaries,  are  specified 
hy  name,  together  with  the  persons  who  were  delivered  from  them. 
R.V.,  i.  51,  6  :  Tvam  Kutsam  S'ushnahatyeahu  avitha  arandhayo  Atithi- 
gvaya  S'ambwram  \  mahdntarh  chid  Arludam  nyakramih,  pada  sandd 
eva  dasyuhatydyajaj'nishe  \  "  Thou  hast  preserved  Kutsa  in  his  fights 
with  S'ushna ;  hast  subdued  S'ambara  to  Atithigva ;  thou  hast  trodden 
under  foot  the  great  Arbuda;  of  old  hast  thou  been  born  to  destroy 
the  Dasyus.""^  vii.  19,  2:  Foam  hi  tyad  Indra  Kutsam  dvah  susru- 
shamdnas  tanvd  samaryye  \  daaafh  yat  S'usrhnam  Kuyavam  ni  asmai 
arandhayah  Arjuneydya  Ukshan  \  "  Thou,  0  Indra,  didst  then  deliver 
Kutsa  in  the  fray,  interposing  with  thy  body,  when  favouring  that 
son  of  Arjuni,  thou  didst  subdue  to  him  the  Dasa  S'ashna,  and 
Kuyava."  *'  i.  53,  8 :  Tvam  Karan^am  uta  Parnayam  vadMs 
tejishthaya  Atithigvasya  variant  I  tvam  satd  Vangridasya  abhinat  fwro 
ananudah  purishutdh  Rijisvand  \  9  |  Tvam  etan  jana-rdjno  dmi/rda&a 
dbandhund  Suiravasd  upajagmushah  \  shashtim  sahasra  navatim  nova 
sruto  ni  ohahrena  raihyd  dmhpadd  avrinalc  \  10  j  Tva'^  dvitha  Suira- 
vasam  tcmotihhis  ta/va  trdmahMr  Indra  Turvaydnam  \  tvam  asmai  Kutsam 
Atithigvam  Ayum  make  rajne  yune  a/randhandyah  \  "8.  Thou  hast 
slain  Karanja  and  Parnaya  with  the  glittering  spear  of  Atithigva. 
Unyielding,  thou  hast  broken  down  the  hundred  cities  of  Yangrida, 
which  had  been  blooliaded  by  Eijisvan.  9.  Thou,  renowned  Indra,  hast 
with  thy  swift  chariot-wheels,  crushed  those  twenty  Mngs  of  men,  who 
assailed  the  unaided  Susravas,  [and  their}  sixty  thousand  and  ninety- 

^  This  verse  is  followed  almost  immediately  by  the  text,  \,  51,  8,  quoted  ahove, 
p.  359.    "  Distinguish  between  the  Aryas,"  etc. 

«3  In  R.V.,  iv.  26, 1  (quoted  above,  p.  360),  also,  Kutsa  is  called  the  son  of  Arjuni. 
Kuhn  considers  that  Kutsa  is  a  personification  of  the  lightning,  a  view  which  he 
considers  to  be  confirmed  by  his  patronymic  of  Arjuni,  Arjuna  being  an  epithet  of 
Indra,  and  of  the  thunderbolt.  See  Herabkunft  des  Feuers,  pp.  67-62,  65, 140, 176. 
See  also  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth,  s.v.  Kuyava  is  also  mentioned  in  i.  103,  3  :  Kshirena 
snatah  Kuyavasya  yoshe,  hate  te  syatam  pravane  S'iphayah.  "  The  two  wives  of 
Kuyava  bathe  with  water ;  may  they  be  drowned  i&  the  stream  of  the  S'ipha," 


386  NAMES  OF  DASTUS 

nine  [followers].  10.  Thou  hast  by  thy  aids  protected  Susravas,  and  by 
thy  help  Turvayana.  To  this  mighty  youthful  king  thou  hast  subjected 
Kutsa,  Atithigva,  and  Ayu.""  ii.  30,  8:  Sarasvati  tvam  asman 
aviddhi  marufvati  dhrishati  jesM  iatrun  \  tyaih  eJdt  sardhantam  tcmisM- 
yamanam  Indro  hanti  vrishabham  S'andikanam  \  "  Sarasvati,  do  thou 
protect  us :  impetuous,  attended  by  the  Maruts,  thou  conquerest  our 
enemies.  Indra  destroys  the  chief  of  the  S'andikas,  arrogant,  and 
making  a  display  of  his  strength."*'  iv.  30,  15  :  Uta  dasasyu  VaroM- 
nah  sahasrani  iata  ^vadhlh  \  adhi  pancha  pradhin  iva  \  21  |  mvapayad 
BabMtaye  sahasra  trimiatam  hathaih  |  ddsdndm  Indro  may  ay  a  |  "Thou 
hast  alain  above  a  thousand  and  five  hundred  followers  of  the  Dasa 
Varchin  like  fellies  of  a  wheel  [crushed,  or  whirled  round?]"  21.  Indra, 

"  The  youthful  king,  alluded  to  in  the  last  verse,  is  said  by  Eoth  (Lexicon,  under 
the  word  "Atithigva")  to  he  Turvayana.  See,  however,  under  Turvayana.  Benfey 
(Or.  und  Oco.,  i.  413)  says  it  must  be  Sus'ravas.  These  names  occur  again  in  vi. 
18,  13.  Kutsa  is  sometimes  aided  (E.V.,  i.  63,  3;  i.  121,  9;  iv.  16,  12;  x.  99,  9), 
and  sometimes  vanquished  (ii.  14,  7 ;  iv.  26,  1 ;  vi.  18,  13  ;  Val.,  6,  2),  by  Indra. 

"  Sayana  says  that  8' andamarhav  Asurapurohitau  :  "  S'anda  and  Marka  are  the 
priests  of  the  Asuras."  See  the  stoiy  regarding  them  in  Taitt.  San.,  vi.  4, 10, 1,  quoted 
in  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  p.  230,  note,  where  they  appear  in  the  character 
referred  to  by  Sayana.  The  story  is  somwhat  differently  told  in  S'atap.  Br.,  iv.  2, 
1,  5  :  Yatra  vai  devah  asura-rakshasani  apajaghnire  tad  etav  ma  na  sekur  a/pahan- 
tum  I  yad  ha  sma  devah  kincha  karma  kurvate  tad  ha  sma  mohayitva  kshipre  eva 
punar  apadravatah  \  6  \  te  ha  devdh  uchuh\  "  upaJSfiita  yatha  imav  apahanamahai" 
iti  I  te  ha  uchuh  \  "  grahm  »va  abhyam  grihnama  ta/o  abhymaishyatah  \  tau  svlkritya 
apaha/nishyamahe"  ita  \  tahhyam grahau  jagrihuh  |  tav  abhyavaitam  [  tau  svikritya 
apaghnata  \  tasmat  8'andama/rkabhyam  grihyete  devatabhyo  huyete  |  "  When  the 
gods  smote  the  Asuras  and  Rakshases,  they  could  not  smite  these  two  (S'anda  and 
Marka,  who  had  just  been  named).  When  the  gods  performed  any  rite,  these  two 
used  to  come  and  disturb  it,  and  then  run  away  quickly.  6.  The  gods  said :  '  Con- 
sider how  we  shall  smite  them.'  They  (the  other  gods  ?)  said :  '  Let  us  prepare  two 
draughts  for  them ;  they  will  alight ;  and  then  we  shall  master  and  smite  them.' 
They  accordingly  prepared  libations  for  these  two.  They  alighted.  They  (the  gods) 
mastered  and  smote  them.  Henoe  two  draughts  are  prepared  for  S'anda  and  Marka, 
but  are  offered  to  the  gods."  In  the  S'atapatha-brahmana,  i.  1,  4, 14  (p.  9  of  Weber's 
edition),  Kilata  and  Akuli  are  declared  to  be  the  priests  of  the  Asuras :  Kilatakuli 
iti  ha  Asura-irahmav  asatuh.  Z.  D.  M.  G.  for  18S0,  p.  302.  In  Ind.  Stud.,  i.  32, 
Weber  quotes  the  following  words  from  the  Pauchvins'a-brahmana,  13,  11 ;  Gaupa- 
vcmSmm  vai  satram  asTnamm  Kiratikalyav  aauramaye,  etc.  "  While  the  Gaupa- 
vauas  were  seated  at  a  saerifice,  Kirata  and  Akuli,  etc."  See  also  Ind.  Stud.,  i., 
p.  186,  195,  ii.  243.  According  to  the  Mahabharata,  i.  2544,  Us'anas  Kavya,  or 
S'ukra,  son  of  Bhrigu  (v.  2606)  was  the  teacher  {upadhyaya)  of  the  Asuras,  and  his 
four  sons  were  their  priests  {y&jakah).  In  verses  3188,  if.,  of  the  same  book,  the 
rivalry  of  Us'anas  and  Angiras  is  referred  to.  Wanas  Kavya  was  the  messenger  of 
the  Asuras,  according  to  the  Taitt.  San.,  i.  6,  8,  6.  6«  See  also  B.V.,  vii,  99,  5. 


MENTIONED  IN  THE  HYMNS.  387 

by  his  superhuman  pover,  put  to  sleep  with  his  weapons  thirty  thou- 
sand Dasas  for  Dabhiti."  v.  30,  7 :  A  tra  damsya  Namuchel}.  svro 
yad  avartayo  maname  gatum  icKhan  \  9  |  striyo  hi  dasah  ayudhani  chahre 
him  mark  Jcarann  ahdlah  asya  senah  \  anta/r  hi  akhyad  uhhe  asya  dhene 
atha  wpa/praid  yudhaye  dasyum  Indrah  \  "  When,  designing  prosperity 
for  Manu,  thou  didst  strike  off  the  head  of  the  Dasa  Namuohi.*' 
9.  The  Dasa  took  his  wives  for  allies  in  battle.  What  will  his 
feeble  hosts  do  to  me  ?  He  concealed  his  two  fair  ones ;  and  then 
Indra  approached  to  fight  with  the  Dasyu."  viii.  32,  26:  Aham 
Vritram  richishamah  Aztrnavdhham  Afttsuvam  himena  avidhyad  Arhudam\ 
' '  Indra  slew  Vritra,  Aurnavabha,  Ahlsuva :  with  frost  he  pierced 
Arbuda."  viii.  40,  10 :  Yah  oj'asa  S'ushmsya  mdani  hhedati  j'eshat 
svarvatlr  apah  \  "Who  by  his  might  crushes  the  eggs  of  S'ushna; 
he  conquered  the  celestial  waters."  x.  54,  1 :  Pravo  devan  atiro 
dasam  ojah  prctjayai  tvasyai  yad  aiihhah  Indra  |  "  Thou  hast  pro- 
tected the  gods,  thou  hast  overcome  the  might  of  the  Dasyus,  when 
thou,  0  Indra,  didst  favour  some  one  people."  x.  73,  7 :  Tvam 
jaghantha  Ifamuchim  makhasyum  dasam  krinvanah  rishaye  vimayam  | 
"  Thou  hast  slain  the  vehement  Namuchi,  making  the  Dasa  devoid 
of  power  for  the  rishi."^*  x.  95,  7 :  Yat  tvd  Pururavo  ranaya  a/va/r- 
dhayan  dasyuhatyaya  devdh  |  "  When,  Pururavas,  the  gods  strength- 
ened thee  for  the  conflict  with  the  Dasyus." 

I  have  gone  over  the  names  of  the  Dasyus  or  Asuras  mentioned  in 
the  B,.V.  with  the  "view  of  discovering  whether  any  of  them  could  be 
regarded  as  of  non-Arian  or  indigenous  origin ;  but  I  have  not  observed 
any  that  appear  to  be  of  this  charaeter.  But  we  should  recollect  that 
the  Arians  would  not  unnaturally  designate  the  aboriginal  leaders  (if 
they  specified  any  of  them  in  their  sacred  hymns)  by  names  of  Arian 
origin,  or  at  least  softened  into  an  Arian  form.  The  Greeks  intro- 
duced Greek  modifications  into  Persian  and  other  proper  names,  and 
the  Chaldeans  are  stated  in  the  Book  of  Daniel  to  hav«  given  Chaldean 
appellations  to  the  Jews. 

In  some  passages  the  Dasyus  are  spoken  of  as  monsters.  ™    Thus,  ii. 

"  There  is  a  legend  about  Indra  and  the  Asura  Namuchi  in  the  S'atap.  Brah.,  v. 
i,  1,  8,  p.  459. 

«8  See  Benfey,  Gloss,  to  S.V.  under  the  word  Namuchi. 

8'  The  Dasyus  must  be  eTH  spirits  in  A.V.,  xviii.  2,  28 :  Ye  dasymah  pitrishu 
pravishtah,  etc.  ("the  Dasyus  who  have  entraed  into,  or  among,  the  Pitfis").    They 


388  CONCLUSIONS  EEGAEDING  THE  DASTUS 

14,  4 ;  Yah  Uramm  jaghana  nma  chahJwdmsafh  navatifft  cha  lakHn  \  yo 
Arhidam  ava  nicha  habadhe  \  "'WTio  slew  Tirana,  displaying  ninety-nine 
arms ;  who  struck  down  Arbuda,"  etc.  x.  99,  6:  Sa  id  dasam  tuviravam 
paiAr  dan  shadaksham  triilrshamm  damanyat  \  asya  Tritonu  qjaaa  vridhano 
vipd  vardham  ayoagraya  ham,  \  "This  lord  humbled  and  subjugated  the 
loud-shouting  Dasa,  with  six  eyes  and  three  heads.™  Trita,  increasing 
in  strength,  smote  this  boar  with  his  iron-tipped  shaft."  The  enemies 
of  Indra  are  spoken  of  in  a  few  passages  as  scaling  the  sky :  thus,  ii. 
12,  12  :  Yo  Rauhinam,  asphwad  veyraldhur  dydm  wrohantam  sa  jandsah 
Indrah  \  "0  men,  he  who,  armed  with  the  thunder,  slew  Eauhina 
as  he  was  scaling  the  heaven,  is  Indra."  Tiii.  14,  14:  Mdyahhvr 
utsisripsatah  Indra  dydm  armukshatah  ava  dasyun  adhurmthah  \ 
"Thou,  Indra,  hast  hurled  down  the  DasyuSj  who,  by  their  super- 
human powers,  were  mounting  upwards,  and  seeking  to  scale  heayen."" 
In  ii.  12,  2,  the  Dasyus  are  said  to  regard  themselves  as  immortal : 
Srijo  mahlr  Indra  yah  apinvah  parishthitdh  Ahind  iura  purmh  \ 
amartyam,  chid  ddsan  manyamdnam  avdhhinad  uMkair  vavridhdnah  \ 
"Thou  hast,  0  heroic  Indra,  let  loose  the  abundant  waters,  which 
thou  augmentedst  when  they  were  stopped  by  Ahi.  Gaining  vigour 
by  hymns,  he  shattered  the  Dasa,  who  regarded  himself  as  immortal." 
In  V.  7,  10,  the  Dasyus  are  conjoined  ■«;ith  men :  Ad  Ague  aprinato 
'trih  sdsahydd  dasyun  ishah  sdsahyad  nrin  \  "Hereupon,  0  Agni, 
may  the  Atri  overcome  the  illiberal  Dasyus,  may  Isha  overcome  the 
men." 

I  have  thus  brought  under  review  in  this  section  a  variety  of  passages 
which  bear,  or  might  be  conceived  to  bear,  some  reference  to  the  con- 
quest of  territory  by  the  Aryas  and  to  the  conditioUf  colour,  speech, 
religious  rites,  and  castles  of  the  Dasyus.  The  meaning  of  many  of  these 
texts  is,  however,  as  we  have  seen,  extremely  doubtful ;  and  some  of 
them  are  clearly  of  a  mythological  import.  Such,  for  instance,  are 
those  which  describe  the  contests  of  Indra  with  Vritra,  the  demon  of 

are  said  to  be  parapurah  and  nipwah,  whioli  the  commentary  on  V.S.,  2,  30,  ex- 
plains as  having  gross  or  subtile  bodies.  In  that  passage  the  word  asurah  is  used 
instead  of  Basym.  See  also  A.V.,  x.  3,  11,  where  they  are  identified  with  asuras. 
Indro  dasyun  iva  aswan. 

■"1  In  S'atap.  Br.,  p.  57,  a  son  of  Tvashtri  with  three  heads  and  six  eyes  is  men- 
tioned as  having  his  three  heads  cut  off  by  Indra. 

"  In  i.  78,  4,  the  expression  yo  dasyun  ava  dhunushe  recurs. 


AS  MENTIONED  IN  THE  HYMNS.  389 

the  clouds,  who  -withholds  rain ;  where  we  are,  no  doubt,  to  under- 
stand both  the  god  and  his  adversary  as  personifications  of  atmospherical 
phenomena.  In  the  same  way,  S'ambara,  S'ushna,  and  Namuchi  are  to 
be  regarded  as  mythical  personages,  of  a  kindred  character  with  Vritra. 
And  yet  there  are  many  passages  in  which  the  word  "vritra"  has  the 
signification  of  enemy  in  general  (as  E.V.  vi.  33,  3 ;  vi.  60,  6 ;  vii.  83,  1, 
p.  361) ;  and  Professor  Spiegel,  as  we  have  seen  (p.  317),  is  of  opinion 
that  the  word  "  vritrahan"  had  originally  nothing  more  than  a  general 
signification,  and  -that  it  was  only  at  a  later  period  that  it  came  to 
be  a  special  designation  of  Indra.  The  word  S'ambara,  again,  as 
Benfey  (Glossary  to  Samaveda,  p.  181)  remarks,  is  given  in  the 
Nighantus  as  synonymous  with  megha,  "a  cloud"  (i.  10),  with  ijdaka, 
"water"  (i.  12),  and  with  hala,  "force"  (ii.  9);  whUe  the  mythical 
narrations  generally  identify  him  with  Vritra.  In  regard  to  this  word 
Professor  Roth  remarks  as  follows  (Lit.  and  Hist,  of  the  Veda,  p.  116) : 
"  In  the  passages  which  speaik  of  Divodasa,  mention  is  made  of  his 
deliverance,  by  the  aid  of  the  gods,  from  the  oppressor  S'ambara,  e.g. 
E.V.  i.  112,  14;  ix.  61,  2.  It  is  true  that  S'ambara  is  employed  at 
a  later  period  to  designate  an  enemy  in  general,  and  in  particular  the 
enemy  of  Indra,  Vritra ;  but  it  is  not  improbable  that  this  may  be  the 
transference  of  the  more  ancient  recollection  of  a  dreaded  enemy  to  the 
greatest  of  all  enemies,  the  demon  of  the  clouds."  (See,  however, 
p.  368,  above.) 

Professor  Muller(Last  Eesults  of  the  Turanian  Eesearches,  pp.  344,  ff.) 
remarks  as  follows  on  the  use  of  the  words  DasjTi,  Eakshas,  Tatudhana, 
etc. :  "  Dasyu  simply  means  enemy ;  for  instance,  when  Indra  is  praised 
because  'he  destroyed  the  Dasyus  and  protected  the  Arian  colour.'" 
The  '  Dasjnis,'  in  the  Veda,  may  mean  non-Arian  races  in  many  hymns ; 
yet  the  mere  fact  of  tribes  being  called  the  enemies  of  certain  kings  or 
priests  can  hardly  be  said  to  prove  their  barbarian  origin.  Vasishtha. 
himself,  the  very  type  of  the  Arian  Brahman,  when  in  feud  with 
Visvamitra,  is  called  not  only  an  enemy  but  a  'Tatudhana,'  and  other 
names,  which  in  common  parlance  are  only  bestowed  on  barbarian 
savages  and  evil  spirits.''    (See  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  326,  f,, 

'2  [This  passage,  iii.  34,  9,  appears  to  me  to  be,  rather,  one  of  those  in  which  the 
contrast  is  most  strongly  drawn  between  the  Aryas  and  the  aborigines.  See  above, 
pp.  282  and  360.— J.M.] 


390  PROFESSOR  MAX  MULLEE'S  REMARKS  ON  THE 

where  the  original  passage  and  the  translation  are  given.)  "In  other 
passages  [of  the  E.V.]  the  -word  .  .  .  devil  (rakshas)  is  clearly  applied 
to  barbarous  nations.  Originally  rakshas  meant  strong  and  powerful, 
but  it  soon  took  the  sense  of  giant  and  barbarian,"  and  in  this  sense  it 
occurs  in  the  Veda,  together  with  Tatudhana.  Another  Vaidik  epithet 
applied,  as  it  seems,  to  wild  tribes  infesting  the  seats  of  the  Aryas,  is 
'  anagnitra,'  '  they  who  do  not  keep  the  fire.'  Thus  we  read,  '  Agni, 
drive  away  from  us  the  enemies — ^tribes  who  keep  no  sacred  fires  came 
to  attack  us.  Come  again  to  the  earth,  sacred  god,  with  all  the  im- 
mortals, come  to  our  Kbation.'  '*  The  same  races  are  called  '  kravyad,' 
or  flesh-eaters.  In  a  famous  hymn  of  Vasishtha  we  read :  '  Indra  and 
Soma,  bum  the  Eakshas,  destroy  them,  throw  them  down,  ye  two 
Bulls,  the  people  that  grow  in  darkness.  Hew  down  the  madmen, 
suffocate  them,  kill  them,  hurl  them  away,  and  slay  the  voracious. 
Indra  and  Soma,  up  together  against  the  cursing  demon !  may  he  bum 
and  hiss  like  an  oblation  in  the  fire  !  Put  your  everlasting  hatred  on 
the  villain,  who  hates  the  Brahman,  who  eats  flesh,  and  whose  look  is 
abominable.' "...  Kravyad,  flesh-eater,  means  people  who  eat  raw 
meat,  .  .  .  and  they  are  also  called  dmadas,  ...  or  raw-eaters,  for 

'3  The  Rev.  Dr.  'Wilson  (India  Three  Thousand  Tears  Ago,  p.  20)  thinks  that  the 
words  Rakshasa,  Pis'aoha,  and  Asura,  were  originally  names  of  tribes ;  but  he  adduces 
no  proof  of  this,  and  I  have  found  none. 

'*  R.V.  i.  189,  3  :  Agne  tvam  asmad  ywyodhi  amwah  cmagnitrah  abhyamanta 
IcrisMMh  |  Punar  asmahhyan  suvitaya  Deva  ksham  vUvebhir  amritebhir  yajatra  \\ 

'*  [R.V.  vii.  104, 1, 2 :  Indra-Soma  tapatam  raksha  uijatam  ni  arpayatam  vrishana 
tamcvridhah  |  Parasrimtam  achito  ni  oshatam  hatam  nudetham  ni  siaitam  atrinah,\ 
Indra-Soma  sam  aghasamsam  abhy  ogham  tapur  yayastu  eharur  agnivan  ■  iva  \ 
Brcthmadvishe  kravyade  ghoraohakshase  dvesho  dhattam  anavayam  kimTdine]  In  a 
similar  strain,  Vi^vamitra,  the  rival  of  Vasishtha,  says,  in  R.V.  iii.  30,  15-17 : 
Indra  drihya  yamakosa  abhuvan  yajnaya  siksha  grinate  sakhibhyah  \  Durmayavo 
du/reva  martyaso  nishangino  ripa/oo  hantvasah  \  sam  ghoshah  srinve  avmnair  amitrair 
jahi  ni  eshu  asanim  tapishtham  |  Vrischa  im  adhastad  vi  rvja  sahasva  jahi  raksho 
Maghman  ramdhayasva  \  Udnriha  rakshah  sahamulam  Indra  vrischa  madhyam,  prati 
agram  srimhi  \  a  kivatah  salalukam  chakartha  brahmadoishe  tapushim  hetim  asya  | 
"  Indra,  be  strong ;  [the  Rakshases  p]  have  stopped  the  road :  bestow  favour  on  the 
sacrifice,  and  on  thy  worshipper  and  his  Mends ;  let  our  mortal  foes,  bearing  quivers, 
practising  wicked  deceit,  and  malicious,  be  destroyed.  A  sound  has  been  heard  by 
our  nearest  foes ;  hurl  upon  them  thy  hottest  bolt,  cut  them  up  from  beneath,  shatter 
them,  overpower  them;  Idll  and  subdue  the  Rakshas,  0  Maghavan!  Tear  up  the 
Rakshas  by  the  roots,  Indra,  cut  him  in  the  midst,  destroy  him  at  the  extremities. 
How  long  dost  thou  delay  f  Hurl  thy  burning  shaft  against  the  enemy  of  devotion." 
See  Roth,  lUustr.  of  Nir.,  vi.  3,  p.  72.— J.M.] 


"WOEDS  DASTU,  EAKSHAS,  AND  YATUDHANA.  391 

the  cooking  of  meat  was  a  distinguisliing  feature  of  civilized  nations, 
and  frequently  invested  with  a  sacrificial  character.  Agni,  who  in  the 
Vedas  is  the  type  of  the  sacrifice,  and  with  it  of  civilization  and  social 
virtues,  takes  an  entirely  different  character  in  his  capacity  of '  kravyad,' 
or  flesh-eater.  He  is  represented  under  a  form  as  hideous  as  the  beiags 
he  is  iavoked  to  devour.  He  sharpens  his  two  iron  tusks,  puts  his 
enemies  into  his  mouth  and  swallows  them.  [K.V.,  x.  87,  2,  ff.]  He 
heats  the  edges  of  his  shafts,  and  sends  them  into  the  hearts  of  the 
Rakshas.  He  tears  their  skin,  minces  their  members,  and  throws  them 
before  the  wolves  to  be  eaten  by  them,  or  by  the  shrieking  vultures. 
These  Eakshas  are  themselves  called  '  achitas,'  mad,  and '  muradevas,'  '* 
worshippers  of  mad  gods.  Nay,  they  are  even  taunted  with  eating 
human  flesh,  and  are  called  '  asutripas,'  as  enjoying  the  life  of  other 
men.  In  the  Eigvedawe  read  [x.  87,  16],  'the  Tatudhanas  who  gloat 
on  the  bloody  flesh  of  men  or  horses,  and  steal  the  milk  of  the  cow,  0 
Agni,  cut  off  their  heads  with  thy  fiery  sword.'  AU  these  epithets 
seem  to  apply  to  hostile,  and,  most  likely,  aboriginal  races,  but  they 
are  too  general  to  allow  us  the  inference  of  any  ethnological  conclusions. 
The  Vaidik  rishis  certainly  distinguish  between  Arian  and  non-Arian 
enemies.  The  gods  are  praised  for  destroying  enemies,  Arian  as  well 
as  barbarian  {dam  oha  vrittra  hatam  arydni  cha),  and  we  frequently 
find  the  expression  'kUl  our  Arian  enemies,  and  the  Dasa  enemies; 
yea,  kill  all  our  enemies.'  But  there  is  no  allusion  to  any  distinct 
physical  features,  such  as  we  find  in  later  writers.  The  only  expres- 
sion that  might  be  interpreted  in  this  way  is  that  of  '  su^ipra,'  as 
applied  to  Arian  gods.  It  means  '  with  a  beautiful  nose.'  As  people 
are  fain  to  transfer  the  qualities  which  they  are  most  proud  of  in  them- 
selves to  their  gods,  and  as  they  do  not  become  aware  of  their  own 
good  qualities,  except  by  way  of  contrast,  we  might  conclude  that  the 

'8  [The  far  more  opprobrious  epithet  of  Hsnadeva  is  applied,  apparently,  to  the 
same  class  of  people,  in  E.V.  vii.  21,  5 ;  and  x.  99,  3.  The  former  of  these  texts 
ends  thus :  Ma  USnSdevah  apigw  ritam  nah :  "  let  not  the  lascivious  wretches  approach 
our  sacred  rite."  Yaska  (Nir.  iv.  19)  explains  sisnadeva  by  abrahmacharyya ;  Eoth 
(Illustrations  to  Nir.,  p.  47)  thinks  the  word  is  a  scornful  appellation  for  priapic,  or 
sensual  demons.  The  last  Une  of  the  second  text  (x.  99,  3,  apparently  spoken  of 
Indra)  is  as  follows :  Anarva  yat  iatadwasya  vedo  gJman  iiinadevan  abhi  varpasa 
bhut.  "  When,  smiting  the  lascivious  wretches,  the  irresistible  god  by  art  made  him- 
self master  of  the  wealth  of  [the  city]  with  a  hundred  portals."  (See  the  fourth 
volume  of  this  work,  pp.  345,  ff.)— J.M.] 


392  GENERAL  EEMARKS  TENDING  TO 

beautiful  nose  of  Indra  -was  suggested  by  the  flat  noses  of  the  aboriginal 
races.  Tribes  -with  flat,  or  even  no  noses  at  all,  are  mentioned  by- 
Alexander's  companions  in  India ;  and  in  the  hymns  of  the  Eigveda, 
Manu  is  said  to  have  conquered  Vi-^i^ipra  (Pada-text,  visi-^ipra), 
which  may  be  translated  by  'noseless.'  The  Dasa,  or  barbarian,  is 
also  called  '  vrishaiipra'  in  the  Veda,  which  seems  to  mean  'goat  or 
bull-nosed,'  and  the  '  anasas,'  enemies  whom  Indra  killed  with  his 
weapon  (E.V.  v.  29,  9,  10),  are  probably  meant  for  nosel-ess  (a-nasas), 
not,  as  the  commentator  supposes,  for  faceless  (an-asas)  people."  (See 
above,  p.  377,  f.) 

Professor  Miiller  then  proceeds  to  remark  that  the  physical  features 
of  the  aboriginal  tribes  are  more  distinctly  described  in  the  Puranas. 
(See  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  301,  303,  and  a  passage  from 
the  Bhagavata  Purana  which  wiU  be  quoted  further  on). 

We  may,  perhaps,  be  better  able  to  understand  many  of  the  expres- 
sions and  allusions  in  the  hymns,  and  the  manner  in  which  some 
particular  phrases  and  epithets  are  applied  (as  it  would  appear,  indis- 
criminately, to  the  different  classes  of  beings,  human,  ethereal,  or 
demoniacal),  if  we  can  first  of  all  obtain  an  idea  of  the  position  in  which 
theAryas,  on  their, settlement  in  India,  would  probably  find  themselves 
placed  in  reference  to  the  aboriginal  tribes ;  and  if  we,  secondly,  con- 
sider that  the  hymns  in  which  these  phrases  are  recorded  were  com- 
posed at  various  dates,  ranging  over  several  centuries ;  that  the  same 
words  and  phrases  are  perpetually  recurring  in  the  different  hymns ; 
and  that  expressions  employed  in  one  sense  in  the  earlier  hymns  may 
have  been  transferred,  in  the  compositions  of  a  later  date,  to  a  difierent 
class  of  beings.  We  have  further  to  recollect,  that  the  hymns  may  not 
always  have  been  handed  down  in  a  complete  state,  and  that  portions 
of  different  compositions,  which  had  originally  a  different  subject  and 
purpose,  may  have  been  erroneously  thrown  together  by  compilers  in 
after-ages.  I  shall  say  a  few  words,  by  way  of  conjecture,  on  each  of 
these  topics. 

First,  then,  we  may  conceive  the  Aryas  advancing  from  the  Indus 
in  a  south-easterly  direction  into  a  country  probably  covered  with  forest, 
and  occupied  by  savage  tribes,  who  lived  in  rude  huts,  perhaps  defended 
by  entrenchments,  and  subsisted  on  the  spontaneous  products  of  the 
woods,  or  on  the  produce  of  the  chase,  and  of  fishing;  or  by  some  attempts 


ELtJCIDATE  THE  USE  OF  THE  ■WORD  DASTU.  393 

at  agriculture.  These  barbarians  were  of  dark  complexion,  perhaps  also 
of  uncouth  appearance,  spoke  a  language  fundamentally  distinct  from 
that  of  the  Aryas,  differed  entirely  from,  them  in  their  religious  -wor- 
ship, which  no  doubt  would  partake  of  the  most  degraded  fetishism, 
and  (we  can  easily  suppose)  regarded  with  intense  hostility  the  more 
civilized  invaders  who  were  gradually  ^riving  them  from  their  ancient 
fastnesses.  The  Aryas,  meanwhile,  as  they  advanced,  and  gradually 
established  themselves  in  the  forests,  fields,  and  villages  of  the  abori- 
gines, would  not  be  able  aU  at  once  to  secure  their  position,  but  would 
be  exposed  to  constant  reprisals  on  the  part  of  their  enemies,  who 
would  "  avail  themselves  of  every  opportunity  to  assail  them,  to  carry 
off  their  cattle,  disturb  their  rites,  and  impede  their  progress."  "  The 
black  complexion,  ferocious  aspect,  barbarous  habits,  rude  speech, 
and  savage  yells  of  the  Dasyus,  and  the  sudden  and  furtive  attacks 
which,  under  cover  of  the  impenetrable  woods,'*  and  the  obscurity  of 
night,  they  would  make  on  the  encampments  of  the  Aryas,  might 
naturally  lead  the  latter  to  speak  of  them,  in  the  highly  figurative 
language  of  an  imaginative  people  in  the  first  stage  of  civilization,  as 
ghosts  or  demons  ; "  or  even  to  conceive  of  their  hidden  assailants  as 
possessed  of  magical  and  superhuman  powers,  or  as  headed  by  devils. 
The  belief  in  ghosts  is  not  obsolete  (as  every  one  knows)  even  in 
modem  times  and  among  Christian  nations.  In  the  case  of  nocturnal 
attacks,  the  return  of  day  would  admonish  the  assailants  to  withdraw, 
and  would  restore  the  bewildered  and  harassed  Aryas  to  security ;  and, 
therefore,  the  rising  of  the  sun  in  the  east  would  be  spoken  of  as  it  is 

"  "Wilsoii,  E.V.  Tol.  i.  Introd.  p.  xlii.     See  the  fifth  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  450,  ff. 

'^  In  the  Eigveda  there  is  a  hymn  (x.  146)  of  six  verses,  addressed  to  Aranyanl, 
the  goddess  of  forests,  which  we  can  conceive  to  have  been  composed  at  a  period  such 
as  that  described  above,  by  a  rishi  accustomed  to  live  amidst  vast  woods,  and  to  the 
terrors  incident  to  wandering  through  their  solitudes.  The  first  and  last  stanzas  of 
this  hymn  are  as  follows :  Armiyani  A.ranyam  asau  ya  preva  nasyasi  \  hatha  gramam 
na  prichhasi  na  tva  lihir  wa  vindati  1  .  .  .  Anjanagandhim  mrahhim  balwannam 
ahrishivalam  ]  praham  mrigarmm  mataram  A/ranyamM  asamsisham.  *'  Aranyanl, 
Aranyani,  thou  who  almost  losest  thyself,  how  is  it  that  thou  seekest  not  the  hamlet  ? 
Doth  not  fear  possess  thee  ?  .  .  .  I  have  celebrated  Aranyanl,  the  unctuous-scented, 
the  fragrant,  abounding  in  food,  destitute  of  tillage,  the  mother  of  wild  beasts." 
See  Eoth,  lUustr.  of  Nir.,  p.  132 ;  and  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  p.  422. 

's  In  E.V.  viii.  18,  13,  human  enemies  are  spoken  of  as  acting  like  Eakshases: 
Yo  nah  kaschid  ririkshati  raleshastvena  martyah  svais  sa  evaih  ririshhhta :  "  May 
the  man  who  seeks,  with  Eakshas-like  atrocity,  to  injure  us,  perish  by  his  own  mis- 
conduct." 

VOL.  II.  26 


394  HOW  THE  WORD  DASTU  MIGHT 

in  one  of  tte  Brahmanas,  as  driving  away  or  destroying  the  devUs.°° 
In  a  similar  way  the  author  of  the  Kamayana  (if  we  suppose  that  there 
is  any  historical  basis  for  his  poetical  narrative)  speaks,  as  we  shall 
shortly  see,  of  the  barbarian  tribes  encountered  by  Rama  in  the  Dekhan 
as  Eakshasas  and  monkeys.*^  This  state  of  things  might  last  for  some 
time.  The  Aryas,  after  advancing  some  way,  might  halt,  to  occupy, 
to  clear  and  to  cultivate  the  territory  they  had  acquired ;  and  the 
aborigines  might  continue  in  possession  of  the  adjacent  tracts,  some- 
times at  peace,  and  sometimes  at  war  with  their  invaders.  At  length 
the  further  advance  of  the  Aryas  would  either  drive  the  Dasyus  into 
the  remotest  corners  of  the  country,  or  lead  to  their  partial  incorpora- 
tion with  the  conquerers  as  the  lowest  grade  in  their  community. 
"When  this  stage  was  reached,  the  Aryas  would  have  no  longer  any 
occasion  to  compose  prayers  to  the  gods  for  protection  against  the 
aboriginal  tribes ;  but  their  superstitious  dread  of  the  evil  spirits, 
with  which  the  popular  mind  in  all  ages  has  been  prone  to  people  the 
night,  would  still  continue. 

Secondly.  Throughout  the  whole  period  (which  we  may  presume 
to  have  extended  over  several  centuries)  during  which  the  state  of 
things  just  described  continued,  the  composition  of  the  Vedic  hymns 
was  proceeding.  These  hymns  were  (as  we  have  supposed,  pp.  196, 
198)  preserved  by  the  descendants  of  the  several  bards,  who  on  their 
part,  again,  were  constantly  adding  to  the  collection  other  new  com- 
positions of  their  own.  The  authors  of  these  new  effusions  would 
naturally  incorporate  in  them  many  thoughts  and  phrases  borrowed 
from  the  older  hymns  which  were  preserved  in  their  recollection,'* 
and  which  were  now,  perhaps,  beginning  to  be  invested  with  a  certain 
sanctity.  As  circumstances  changed,  the  allusions  and  references  in 
the  older  hymns  might  be  forgotten ;  and  it  might  happen  that  some 
of  the  expressions  occurring  in  them  would  no  longer  be  distinctly  un- 
derstood, and  might  in  this  way  be  applied  to  conditions  and  events 
to  which  they  had  originally  no  reference.  The  same  thing  might 
also  happen  by  way  of  accommodation  :  phrases  or  epithets  referring 

80  Quoted  by  Sayana  on  E.V.  i.  33,  8  :  Adityohy  ma  udyanpurastad  raleshamsy 
apahanti.    See  also  Sayana  on  E.V.,  i.  71,  4. 

61  And  in  our  own  experience  the  Chinese  speak  of  Europeans  as  "  foreign  devils.' 
82  Compare  Renan's  Histoire  des  langues  Semitiques,  2nd  ed.  p.  120,  note  1. 


HAVE  COME  TO  DENOTE  EVIL  SPIEITS.  395 

to  one  class  of  enemies  might  be  transferred  to  another,  as  Professor 
Eoth  (see  p.  389)  supposed  to  have  been  the  case  with  the  word  S'ambara. 
"When,  in  fact,  we  see  that  hints  and  allusions  in  the  Vedas  have  been 
often  developed  in  the  Puranas  into  legends  of  an  entirely  different 
character  and  tendency,  that  the  functions  and  attributes  of  the  Vedic 
gods  were  quite  changed  in  later  ages,  and  that  even  in  the  Brahmaaas 
the  true  meaning  of  many  of  the  Vedic  texts  has  been  misunderstood, 
it  becomes  quite  admissible  to  suppose,  that,  even  in  the  age  when  the 
later  hymns  were  composed,  the  process  of  misapplication  may  have 
commenced,  and  that  their  authors  may,  in  various  instances,  havp 
employed  the  words  of  the  earlier  hymns  in  a  different  manner  from 
that  in  which  they  were  at  first  applied.  In  this  way  it  is  conceivable 
that  what  was  originally  said  of  the  dark-complexioned,  degraded,  and 
savage  aborigines,  of  their  castles,  or  rude  fortifications,  and  of  their 
conflicts  with  the  Aryas,  may  have  been  at  a  later  period  transferred 
to  the  foul  sprites  of  darkness,  to  the  hostile  demons  of  the  clouds, 
and  to  the  conflicts  of  the  gods  with  the-  Asuras  and  the  Daityas. 
Or  it  is,  perhaps,  a  more  probable  supposition  that,  in  the  artless 
style  of  early  poetry,  the  earthly  enemies  of  the  worshipper  were 
mentioned  in  the  hymns  along  side  of  the  malicious  spirits  of  darkness 
(with  whom,  as  we  have  just  seen,  p.  393,  they  might  be  supposed  to 
have  some  affinity  or  alliance),  or  the  aerial  foes  of  Indra.  This  con- 
jimction  or  confusion  of  different  kinds  of  enemies  becomes  the  more 
intelligible  if  the  word  Dasyu,  as  is  supposed  by  the  Indian  com- 
mentators (page  363,  above),  originally  bore  the  generic  sense  of 
destroyer.  (See,  however,  the  remarks  of  Professor  Benfey  in  p. 
367,  f.)  It  might  thus  come  to  be  applied  to  aU  kinds  of  enemies, 
as  the  mention  of  one  description  of  foes  might  naturally  suggest  a 
reference  to  the  others,  and  to  the  epithets  applicable  to  them.  We 
ourselves  apply  to  the  devil  the  appellation  of  the  foul  fiend,  a  word 
which  means  enemy  {feind)  in  German;  and  when  employing  such 
prayers  as  "  deliver  us  from  the  fear  of  the  enemy,"  we  naturally 
include  all  disturbers  of  our  peace,  outward  or  inward,  physical  or 
ghostly.  Epithets  like  amyavrata,  "  observing  different  rites,"  avrafa, 
"without  rites,"  ayajyu,  "not  sacrificing,"  adeva,  "without  gods," 
which  were  originally  applicable  only  to  men,  might  thus,  in  the  pro- 
gress of  a  fantastic  mythology,  be  afterwards  transferred  to  demons. 


396  INFIDELS  AND  ASTJRAS. 

That  this  is  not  merely  a  presumption,  hut  that,  at  least,  something 
like  the  procesB  in  question  actually  took  place  ia  India,  may  be  illus- 
trated by  the  following  curious  passage  from  the  Chhandogya  ITpanishad, 
p.  585 :  Tasmad  api  adya  iha  adadanam  airaddadhanam,  ayajamanam 
ahwr  " asura  vata"  iti  \  Asmanam  hy  eshd  iipanishat  pretasya  sarlram 
hhikshayu  vasanena  alankarena  iti  samshurvanti  \  etena  hy  amum  lokam 
jeshyanto  mamyante  \  "  Hence  even  at  the  present  day  a  person  who  is 
destitute  of  liberality  and  faith,  and  who  does  not  sacrifice,  is  con- 
temptuously addressed  as  one  of  the  Asura  race.  This  is  the  sacred 
doctrine  of  the  Asuras.:  they  adorn  the  bodies  of  the  dead  with  gifts, 
with  raiment,  and  jewels,  and  imagine  that  by  this  means  they  shall 
attain  the  world  to  come."  "' 

The  following  passage  of  the  S'atap.  Br.  iii.  2,  1,  23  and  24  (p,  235, 
Weber's  ed.),  may  also  serve  to  show  the  connexion  between  the 
aborigines  and  Asuras  :  Te  Asurah  attavacJiaso  "he  alavah  he  alavah" 
iti  vadantaih  pardhaihuvuh  |  Tatra  etam  api  vacham  udur  wpgjijndsyam,  \ 
sa  mleehhas  I  Tasmad  na  Irahmano  mleehhed  \  Aswrya  ha  esha  vak. 
"The  Asuras,  deprived  of  speech,  and  crying  he  alaoah  ('0  enemies,' 
incorrectly,  instead  of  As'arflsyfl^),  were  defeated.  Here  they  also  spoke 
this  doubtful  expression.  This  is  incorrect  language  [or  one  who 
speaks  so  is  a  mlechha].  Therefore  let  no  Brahman  speak  incorrectly ; 
for  this  is  the  language  of  the  Asuras."  '* 

83  See  "Weber's  Ind.  Stud.  i.  271,  2,  and  note.  Compare  Manu,  xi.  20 :  Tad 
dhanam  yajiiasilanam  deva-svam  tad  vidier  budhah  \  AyajvcmSm  tu  yad  vittam 
asura-svam  fad  uchyafe  1 1  "  Tlie  wealth  of  those  who  practise  sacrifice  is  regarded 
hy  the  wise  as  the  property  of  the  gods ;  but  the  wealth  of  those  who  never  sacrifice 
is  called  the  property  of  the  Asuras."  See  also  S'atapatha-brahmana,  xiii,  8,  1,  5 
(App.  Note  N.),  and  "Weber's  Ind.  Stud.  i.  189;  as  well  as  the  text  from  the 
Taittiriya-brahmana  cited  in  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  2nd  ed.,  p.  21. 

M  In  the  Brahmanas  numerous  mythical  tales  occur  of  battles  between  the  Devas 
(gods)  and  Asuras,  which  "Weber  (Ind.  Stud.  i.  186,  and  ii.  243)  thinks  are  often  to 
be  understood  of  contests  between  the  Arians  and  the  aborigines.  This  he  considers 
to  be  proved  by  the  passage  about  Balata  (whose  name  nearly  corresponds  with  that 
of  the  Kiratas,"  an  aboriginal  race)  and  Akuli,  priests  of  the  Asuras,  quoted  above, 
p.  386,  note,  from  the  S'atap.  Br.,  and  by  the  legend  of  Eavana.  It  may  be  also 
worthy  of  note,  that  the  word  fcrwi,  when  occurring  in  the  E.V.  (as  in  ii.  17,  6, 
and  elsewhere),  though  taken  by  Both,  in  his  Lexicon,  to  mean  generally  a  cloud, 
is  understood  by  the  Commentator  as  the  name  of  an  Asura  ;  while  this  same  word 
is  stated  in  the  S'atap.  Br.  xiii.  5,  4,  7,  to  be  an  old  name  of  the  Panchalas ;  Krivayah 
iti  ha  vaipura  Panchalan  achakshate. 


THE  AMANS  OiN  THE  SARASVATI.  897 

Sect.  III. — The  Arians  on  the  Swrmvati,  and  their  diffusion  eastward 
and  southwmrd  from  that  point. 

In  the  preceding  sections  we  have  seen-  that  the  Aryas,  on  penetrating 
into  Hindustan  from  the  north-west,  and  advancing  across  the  Panjab 
from  the  Indus  toward*  the  SarasvatI,  found  themselves  in  contact  and 
conflict  with  a  race  of  people,  apparently  aboriginal,  who  are  designated 
in  the  Vedic  hymns  by  the  appellation  of  Dasyus.  We  shall  shortly 
find  that  at  a  later  period,  on  their  southward  progress  from  the  Doab 
towards  and  across  the  Vindhya  range,  the  Arians  again  began  to  press 
upon  the' aborigines,  and  drove  them  further  and  further  into  the  Dekhan. 
We  shall  also,  perhaps,  find  in  the  epithets  applied  in  the  Ramayana 
to  the  barbarous  tribes  of  the  Dekhan,  a  confirmation  of  the  opinion 
that  ia  the  hymns  of  the  Eigveda  the  same  class  of  people  are  de- 
signated by  such  terms  as  Rakshas,  etc.  Before  proceeding  with  this 
investigation,  however,  we  must  first  pause  for  a  moment  with  the 
Brahmanical  Indians  in  the  holy  land  on  the  banks  of  the  SarasvatI, 
and  then  by  the  aid  of  some  texts  from  their  ancient  writers,  trace 
their  advance  from  that  point  to  the  eastward,  and  their  diffasion  over 
northern  India  generally. 

We  shall  now,  therefore,  suppose  that  the  Aryas,  after  traversing  the 
country  of  the  five  rivers,  have  arrived  on  _the  banks  of  the  SarasvatI, 
and  have  even  extended  themselves  as  far  as  the  Jumna  and  the  Ganges. 
It  would  appear  that  the  narrow  tract  called  Brahmavartta  between  the 
SarasvatI  and  the  Drishadvati,  alluded  to  in  the  classical  passage  of 
Manu,  ii.  17-24,  must  have  been  for  a  considerable  period  the  seat  of 
some  of  the  most  distinguished  Indian  priests  and  sages,  that  there  the 
Brahmanical  institutions  must  have  been  developed  and  matured,  and 
perhaps  the  coUeotion  of  the  Vedic  hymns  completed  and  the  canon 
closed.  (See  above,  pp.  302,  345,  348.)  It  is  not  easy  to  account 
in  any  other  way  for  the  sacred  character  attached  to  this  small  tract 
of  country.'^     On  this  subject  Lassen  remarks  as  follows  (in  his 

85  Some  texts  of  tie  Veda  relating  to  the  Sarasvati  have  been  quoted  above, 
p;  3i5,  f.  Weber  (Ind.  Stud.,  ii.  311)  quotes  two  passages  from  the  S'ankbayana 
and  Aitareya  Brahmanas,  about  the  rishis  holding  a  sacrifice  on  the  banks  of  this 
river.  See  also  Professor  Hang's  Ait.  Br.  The  commencement  of  the  legend  in  the 
Ait.  Br.,  ii.  19,  is  as  follovfs:  Rishayo  vat  Saraavatyam  satram  asata,  te  Kavasham 
Ailusham  somad  anayan:  "  dasyah  putrah  kitmo  'brahmanah  katham  no  madhye 
dtkshishta  "  iti  tarn  bahirdhmva  udmahann  "  atra  mam  pipasa  hantu  |  Sarasvatyal} 


398  SANCTITY  OF  THE  SAEASVATI. 

Zeitschrift,  iii.  p.  201):— "The  holiness  [of  the  Sarasvati]  must 
also  rest  on  historical  grounds,  and  be  referred  to  an  age  -when  the 
contrast  had  become  strongly  marked  between  the  inhabitants  of  inner 
India,  whose  institutions  were  framed  according  to  rigid  sacerdotal 
principles,  and  the  ocoupauts  of  the  Panjab,  by  whom  such  rules 
were  but  imperfectly  observed.  This  contrast,  however,  was  not  only 
applicable  to  the  people  of  the  west :  towards  the  south  also  the 
country  which  was  regulated  by  institutions  of  a  strictly  Indian 
character,  terminated  with  the  Sarasvati :  the  place  where  that  river 
disappeared  was  the  door  of  the  Nishada  country;  and  she  disap- 
peared in  order  that  she  might  not  come  into  contact  with  that  impure 
race.'"*  Of  the  same  locality  Professor  Wilson  (Vishnu-Purana, 
Preface,  p.  Ixvii)  remarks:  "Various  adventures  of  the  first  princes 
and  most  famous  sages  occur  in  this  vicinity;  and  the  Asramas,  or 
religious  domiciles,  of  several  of  the  latter  are  placed  on  the  banks 
of  the  Sarasvati.  According  to  some  authorities,  it  was  the  abode  of 
Vyasa,  the  compiler  of  the  Vedas  and  Puranas;  and  agreeably  to 
another,  when  on  one  occasion  the  Vedas  had  fallen  into  disuse,  and 
been  forgotten,  the  Brahmans  were  again  instructed  in  them  by 
Sarasvata,  the  son  of  Sarasvati.*'  One  of  the  most  distinguished  of 
the  tribes  of  the  Brahmans  is  known  as  the  Sarasvata The 

uiakam  mapad"  iti  \  "  The  rishis  attended  at  a  sacrifice  on  tie  [banks  of]  the 
Saxasvati.  They  removed  Kavasha  Ailusha  from  the  soma,  saying,  '  This  is  the  son 
of  a  bondmaid,  a  gamester  (or  deceiver),  and  no  Brahman;  how  has  he  consecrated 
himself  among  us  in  the  sacred  rite  P '  Accordingly  they  took  him  into  the  "wilderness, 
saying,  '  Let  thirst  destroy  him  here ;  let  him  not  drink  the  water  of  the  Sarasvati.'  " 
The  Sarasvati,  however,  showed  him  favour,  and  the  Brahmans  in  consequence  ad- 
mitted him  to  their  fellowship.  In  the  Mahabh.,  iii.  5074,  quoted  by  Lassen 
(Zeitschr.,  iii.  200),  it  is  said :  Dakshinena  Sarasvatyali  Drishadvaty-uttarena  eAa, 
ye  vasamti  KwwkshMre  te  vasanti  tripisMape  \  "  Those  who  dwell  in  Kurukshetra, 
south  of  the  Sarasvati,  and  north  of  the  Drishadvati,  dwell  in  heaven."  See  also 
the  first  volume  of  this  work,  2nd  ed.,  p.  421,  f. 

88  Mahabh.,  iii.  10,538 :  Mai  Yinaimiam  natna  Sarasvatyah  visampatf  \  dvaram 
Nishadarashtrasya  yesKom  doshat  Sarasvati  \  Pra/oishta  pritMvim  vlra  ma  NisJiddah 
hi  mam  viduh  \  "This  is  the  place  called  the  Vina^ana  (disappearance)  of  the 
Sarasvala,  the  gate  of  the  country  of  the  Nishadas,  to  whose  impurity  it  was  due 
that  the  Sarasvati  sank  into  the  earth,  lest  [as  she  said]  the  Nishadas  should  become 
acquainted  with  her." 

"'  An  abstract  of  the  legend  here  referred  to  is  given  by  Professor  Wilson  at 
p.  285,  1st  ed.  of  his  work,  note  9 ;  2nd  ed.,  vol.  iii.  p.  70.  The  passage  occurs  in 
the  ix*''  or  S'alya  Parva  of  the  Mahabh.,  verse  2960.    A  twelve  years'  drought 


NORTHERN  INDIA  HOW  SUBDIVIDED  BY  MANTT.  399 

river  itself  receives  its  appellation  from  Sarasvati,  the  goddess  of 
learning,  under  whose  auspices  the  sacred  literature  of  the  Hindus 
assumed  shape  and  authority."  [May  we  not  with  as  much  proba- 
bility suppose  the  converse  to  have  been  the  case, — especially  as  her 
name  is  derived  from  saras,  "water"  (Nir.,  ix.  36), — and  that  the 
goddess  derived  her  name  from  the  river  on  whose  banks  she  may  be 
said  to  have  been  born  ?]'^  "  These  indications  render  it  certain  that, 
whatever  seeds  were  imported  from  without,  it  was  in  the  country 
adjacent  to  the  Sarasvati  river  that  they  were  first  planted  and 
cultivated  and  reared  in  Hindustan."  See  also  Lassen,  Zeitschrift, 
iii.  p.  202.  • 

The  high  degree  of  sanctity  ascribed  by  the  Indians,  at  the  close  of 
the  Vedic  era,  to  the  country  between  the  Sarasvati  and  Drishadvati, 
is  further  proved  by  the  following  passage  of  Manu,  already  repeatedly 
referred  to : 

Manu,  ii.  17-24  :  Sarasvati-Briahadvatyor  deva-nadyor  yad,  antaram  \ 
tarn  deva-nirmitam  deiam  Brahmavartam  praohakshate  \  18  ]  Tasmin 
deie  yah  acharah  paramparya-hramagatah  \  varnanam  aantaralanam  sa 
mdachara  uchyate  |  19  |  Kurukslietram  cha  Matsyai  cha  Panchaldh 
S'urasenakdh  \  esha  Brahma/rBhi-deio  vai  Brahmava/rtad  anantarah  \  20  I 
Etaddeia-prasutasya  sakasad  agrajanmanah  \  svam  svam  eharitram 
iihheran pritMvySm sarva-manavdh]  21 1  Simmad-Vindhyayor madhyam 
yat  prag  Vmaian&d  a/pi  \  pratyag  eva  Praydgach  cha  madhyadeiah  pra- 
Mrtitah  \  22  \  A  samudrat  tu  vai  purvdd  a  mmud/rdt  tu  paschimdt  \ 
tayor  evdntaram  giryor  aryava/rtam  vidwr  hudhdh  \  23  |  hrishnasdras  tu 
charati  mrigo  yatra  svdbhdvatah  \  sa  jneyo  yajniyo  deio  Mlechhadesas 
tatah  parah  \  24  |  Etdn  dvijdtayo  desdn  samirayeran  prayatnatah  \  sudras 
tu  yasmin  kasmin  va  nivased  vritti-iarshitah  \  "  The  tract,  fashioned 
by  the  gods,  which  lies  between  the  two  divine  rivers  Sarasvati  and 

occurred,  during  which,  the  great  rishis  travelled  hither  and  thither  in  search  of 
food,  and  thus  lost  the  Vedas  [ieshatn  Tcshuda  paritanam  nasMah  vedd  'bhidhavatam). 
The  Muni  Sarasvata  was  about  to  depart  also,  hut  was  dissuaded  hy  the  Sarasvati ; 
na  gcmtmyam  Hah  putra  tavaharam  ahem  soda  |  dasyami  matsyapraiiaran  ushyatam 
iha  Sharata  :  "  Go  not  hence,  my  son :  I  will  give  thee  excellent  fish  for  food."  He 
accordingly  remained,  "preserving  his  life  and  the  Vedas"  {prdnan  veddmscha 
dhdrayan) ;  and  communicated  the  Vedas  again  to  the  other  rishis  at  their  desire. 

88  See  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  338,  S.  Professor  Weber,  however,  in 
his  review  of  that  volume  in  the  Lit.  Centralblatt  of  July  28th,  1870,  p.  864,  objects 
to  the  view  there  stated. 


400  REMARKS  ON  THE  PASSAGE  FROM  MANIT. 

Drishadvatl,  is  called  Brahmavartta.  18.  The  usage  relating  to  castes 
and  mixed  castes  which  has  been  traditionally  received  in  that  country, 
is  called  the  pure  usage.  19.  The  country  of  Kurukshetra,  and  of  the 
Matsyas,  Panchalas,  and  S'urasenas,  which  adjoins  BrahmaTartta,  is 
the  land  of  brahmarshis  (divine  rishis).  20.  From  a  Brahman  bom  in 
that  region  let  all  men  upon  earth  learn  their  respective  duties.  21. 
The  tract  situated  between  the  Himavat  and  the  Yindhya  ranges  to 
the  east  of  Vinasana,  and  to  the  west  of  Prayaga,  is  known  as  the 
Madhyadeia  (central  region).  22.  The  wise  know  as  Aryavartta  the 
country  which  lies  between  the  same  two  ranges,  and  extends  from  the 
eastern  to  the  western  ocean.  23.  The  land  where  the  black  antelope 
naturally  grazes  is  to  be  regarded  as  the  proper  region  of  sacrifice; 
beyond  that  limit  lies  the  country  of  the  Mlechhas.  24.  Let  twice-born 
men  be  careful  to  remain  within  these  (specified)  countries.  But  a 
8'udra  may  dwell  anywhere,  when  drawn  to  seek  subsistence."" 

From  this  passage  it  appears  that  at  the  period  to  which  the 
rules  prescribed  in  these  verses  are  referable  the  Brahmans  had 
not  ordinarily  penetrated  to  the  south  of  the  Vindhya  range,  though 
adventurers  might  have  visited,  or  hermits  might  have  settled,  in 
those  regions.  And  even  to  the  north  of  the  Vindhya  we  find  the 
country  distributed  into  several  tracts  more  or  less  holy,  according 
to  their  distance  from  the  hallowed  spot  in  the  north  lying  on  the 
banks  of  the  Sarasvati.  First,  then,  we  have  this  small  region 
itself,  Brahmavartta.  This  name  may  signify  (1)  either  the  region  of 
Brahma,  the  creator,  in  which  case  it  may  have  been  regarded  as  in 
some  peculiar  sense  the  abode  of  this  god,  and  possibly  the  scene  of  the 
creation ;  or  (2)  the  region  of  devotion  or  the  Vedas  (brahma),  and 
then  it  will  rather  denote  the  country  which  was  sanctified  by  the 
performance  of  holy  rites  and  the  study  of  sacred  literature.  IText  in 
order  we  have  the  land  of  the  Brahmarshis,  comprising  Kurukshetra 

*'  I  am  indebted  to  Professor  Aufrecht  for  the  foUowng  note:  "Panini,  ii.  4,  10, 
says :  S'uehranam  aniravasitanam  :  the  combination  into  a  dvandva  of  S'udras  who 
are  not  excluded  (Kaiyyata  explains  niravasita  by  vahishkrita)  is  put  into  the 
singular.  On  this  the  Mahabhashya  remarks :  Arymartad  amrvasitamm  |  ke  pimar 
Arymartah  \  prag  Adardat  pratyah  Kalakmanad  dakshinena  Sima/vantam  uttarena 
Paripatram  \  "  The  sense  is  as  follows:  "'Not  excluded'  from  Aryavarta.  But 
what  are  the  Aryavartas  ?  The  country  east  of  Adars'a,  west  of  Kalakavana  (or  the 
forest  of  Kalaka),  south  of  the  Himavat,  and  north  of  Paripatra." 


PEOGEESS  OF  THE  ARIANS  EAST  AND  SOUTH.  401 

(tie  country  west  of  the  Jumna,  and  stretching  from  the  Sarasvati  on 
the  north  towards  Vrindavana  and  Mathura),™  with  the  country  of  the 
Matsyas,  Panchalas,  and  S'urasenas.  The  Panchalas  are  said  by  Kulluka 
Bhatta,  the  commentator  on  Manu,  to  have  occupied  the  country  about 
Kanyakubja  or  Kananj  ;  and  the  S'urasenas  to  have  lived  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood of  Mathara."  The  third  tract,  called  Madhyade^a,  embraces 
a  wider  area,  and  stretches,  north  and  south,  from  the  Himalaya  to  the 
Vindhya  range,  and  north-west  and  south-east,  from  Vina^ana,  where 
the  Sarasvati  disappeared  in  the  desert  (see  above,  p.  398)  to  Prayaga 
or  Allahabad.  The  fourth  region,  Aryavartta,  or  the  abode  of  the 
Aryas,  is  yet  more  extensive  than  the  last,  and  extends  within  the 
same  limits  of  latitude  from  the  sea  at  the  mouth  of  the  Indus  to  the 
Bay  of  Bengal  (the  eastern  and  western  oceans). 

The  manner  in  which  these  several  countries  are  here  successively 
introduced  seems  to  intimate  that  the  Aryas  proceeded  gradually  from 
the  banks  of  the.  Sarasvati  (where,  as  we  have  supposed,  they  had 
established  themselves  after  traversing  the  Panjab)  towards  the  east 
and  south ;  and  that  the  countries  farthest  to  the  south  and  east,  as 
well  as  to  the  south-west,  of  the  Sarasvati,  were  those  with  which 
they  had  become  last  acquainted,  and  were  least  familiar.  Another 
proof  that  the  Arians  had  not  yet  penetrated  to  the  south  of  the 
Vindhya,  or  thoroughly  occupied  the  eastern  provinces  of  Northern 
India,  at  the  time  to  which  we  refer,  may  be  found  in  Manu,  x.  43, 
44  (see  first  volume  of  this  work,  second  ed.,  pp.  481,  f.,  486,  ff.), 
where  we  are  told  that  the  Paundrakas,  Odras,  and  Dravidas,  who  had 
formerly  been  Eshatriyas,  had,  from  neglect  of  religious  rites  and  the 
absence  of  Brahmans,  sunk  to  the  state  of  Yrishalas,  or  S'udras.  Prom 
this  it  would  appear  that  some  at  least  of  the  people  of  those  countries, 
i.e.  of  the  inhabitants  of  Bengal  proper  and  of  northern  Orissa,  as 
well  as  those  of  the  Coromandel  coast,'''  were  then  living  without 
Brahmanical  institutions ;  and  consequently  that  the  Brahmans  had  not 
yet  taken  complete  possession  of  all  those  provinces;  though,  if  the 
definition  above  given  by  Manu  of  the  word  Aryavartta  may  be  relied 
on  as  proof,  the  Aryas  must  have  carried  their  conquests  as  far  east- 
ward as  the  eastern  ocean,  or  Bay  of  Bengal. 

'"  See  the  map  of  Ancient  India,  in  Lassen,  Ind.  Ant.  vol.  ii. 
"  Panchalah  Kanyakubja-desah  S'urasenakah  Mathiira-deiah. 
^  See  Wilson's  Vishnu-Purana,  1st  ed.,  pp.  190,  192;  2nd  ed.  vol.  ii.,  pp.  170, 
177,  and  notes. 


402       PASSAGE  PROM  THE  S'ATAPATHA-BEAHMANA  ON  THE 

In  tlie  S'atapatha-bralimana  we  find  the  following  remarkable  legend, 
to  which  attention  was  first  drawn  by  "Weber  (in  his  Ind.  Stud.,  i. 
170,  ff.),'^  regarding  the  advance  of  the  Brahmans,  and  the  spread  of 
their  religious  rites  in  an  easterly  direction  from  the  banks  of  the 
Sarasvati  (S'atap.  Br.,  i.  4,  1,  10,  ff.): — Videgho  ha  Mathwvo  'gnim 
Vaiivana/ram  mukhe  habhara  \  tasya  Qotamo  Rahugamh  rishih  pv/roMtah 
dsa  I  tasmai  sma  amantryamdno  na  pratiirinoti  "  na  id  me  'gnir  vaiha- 
naro  mukhad  nishpadyatai"  iti  \  tam  riglhir  Jmayitum  dadhre  "  'vitiho- 
tram  tva  kme  dyumantam  samidhlmahi  \  Agne  hrihantam  adJware^ 
videgha"  iti\  sa  na  pratUu^rava  '"  Ud  Ague  iuohaym  tava  iukrah 
hhraj'antah  irate  \  tava  jyotimsM  archayo^  videgha "  iti  \  sa  ha  ncma 
pratihiirdva  \  "  tafh,  tva  ghritasncm  imahe  "  ity  eva  ahhivydhardd  \  atha 
asya  ghrita-hirtav  eva  Agnir  Vaihanaro  mukhad  ujjajvala  \  tam  na 
saSdka  dhdrayitum  |  so  'sya  mukhad  nishpede  |  sa  imdm  prithivtm  prdpa 
adah  \  tarhi  Videgho  MathavaJ),  asa  sarasvatydm  \  sa  tatah  eva  pran 
dahann  alhiydya  imdm  prithivtm  \  tam  Gotamai  cha  Rdhugano  Videgha^ 
eha  Mdthavah  paichdd  dahantam  anviyatuh]  sa  imdh  sa/tvdh  nadir 
atidaddha  \  Saddmrd  ity  uttardd  girer  nirdhavati  \  tdm  ha  eva  na 
atidaddha  \  tain  ha  sma  tdm  purd  brdhmandh  na  taranti  "  anatidagdhd 
agnind  Vai^dnarena  "  iti  \  tatah  etarhi  prdoMnam  laha/oo  Irdhmandh  \ 
tad  ha  akshetratairam  iva  dsa  srdvitwrom  iva  asvdd/itam  Agnind  Vais- 
vdnarena  iti  |  tad  u  ha  etarhi  kshetrataram  iva  Irdhmandh  u  hi  nunam 
etad  yajnair  asishvidan  I  sp,  'pi  jaghanye  naiddghe  sam  iva  eva  kopayati 
tdvat  iitd  'natidagdhd  hy  Agnind  Vai^vdnarena  \  sa  ha  uvdeha  Videgho 
Mdthavah  "  kva  aham  bhavdni"  iti  \  "  atah  eva  te prdchinam  hhuvanam" 
iti  ha  uvdeha  \  sd  eshd  'py  etarhi  koiala-videhdndm  maryddd  \  te  hi 
Mathamdh  \  Atha  ha  uvdeha  Qotamo  Edhuganah  "  Katham  nu  me 
amantryamdno  na  pratyairaushlr'"  iti  \  Sa  ha  uvdeha  "Agnir  me 
Vaisvdnaro  mukhe  'bhut  sa  na  id  me  mukhad  nishpadyatai  tasmdt  te  na 
pratyasramsham"  iti  \  "tad  u  katham  abhud"  iti\  "  Tatra  eva  tvam 
'  ghritasna/v  Imahe '  iti  ahhivydhdrshis  tadd  eva  ghrita-klrtav  Agnir 
Vaisvdnaro  muhhdd  udcy'vdlif  tam  ndiakam  dhdrayitum  \  sa  me  muhhdd 
nirapddi"  iti  \  "  Videgha^*  the  Mathava  bore  Agni  Yaisvanara  in  his 
mouth.  The  Eishi  Gotama  Eahugana'^  was  his  priest  (purohita). 
Though  addressed  by  him  he  (Videgha)  did  not  answer,  '  lest  (he  said) 

93  See  also  Lassen's  Ind.  Ant  vol.  i.  (2nd  ed.),  p.  645. 

»*  Afterwards  prakritized  to  Videhaf  s'  See  E.V.  i.  78,  5. 


ADVANCE  OP  THE  ARIANS  EASTWAED.  403 

Agni  (Fire)  should  escape  from  my  mouth.'  [The  priest]  began  to 
invoke  Agni  with  verses  of  the  Eik ;  '  "We  kindle  thee  at  the  sacrifice, 
0  wise  Agni,  the  sacriflcer,  the  luminous,  the  mighty,'  (E.V.  v.  26,  3) 
'  0  Videgha.'  He  made  no  answer.  [The  priest  then  repeated,]  '  Thy 
bright,  brilliant,  flaming  beams  and  rays  mount  upwards,  0  Agni,' 
(E.V.  viii.  44,  16)  '0  Videgha.'  [Still]  he  made  no  reply.  [The 
priest  then  recited:]  'Thee,  0  dropper  of  butter,  we  invoke,'  etc. 
(E.V.  V.  26,  2).  So  far  he  uttered ;  when  immediately  on  the  men- 
tion of  butter  (ghrita),  Agni  Vaisvanara  flashed  forth  from  his  mouth : 
he  could  not  restrain  him,  so  he  issued  from  his  mouth,  and  then  fell 
down  to  this  earth.  Videgha  the  Mathava  was  then  on  [or  in]  the 
Sarasvatl.  [Agni]  then  traversed  this  earth,  burning  towards  the 
east.  Gotama  Eahugana  and  Videgha  the  Mathava  followed  after 
him  as  he  burned  onward.  He  burnt  across  all  these  rivers ;  but  he 
did  not  burn  across  the  Sadanira,  which  descends  from  the  northern 
mountain  [the  Himalaya].  The  Brahmans  formerly  did  not  use  to 
cross  this  river,  because  it  had  not  been  burnt  across  by  Agni  Vais- 
vanara. But  now  many  Brahmans  [live]  to. the  east  of  it.  It  used  to 
be  uninhabitable,  and  swampy,  being  tmtasted  by  Agni  Vaisvanara, 
It  is  now,  however,  habitable;  for  Brahmans  have  caused  it  to  be 
tasted  by  sacrifices.  In  the  end  of  summer  this  river  is,  as  it  were, 
incensed,  being  still  cold,  not  having  been  burnt  across  by  Agni  Vais- 
vanara. Videgha  the  Mathava  spake  :  '  "WTiere  shall  I  abide  ?  '  [Agni] 
repHed,  '  Thy  abode  [shall  be]  to  the  east  of  this  (river).'  This 
stream  is  even  now  the  boundary  of  the  Ko^alas  and  Videhas ;  for  they 
are  Mathavas.  Gotama  Eahugana  then  said:  'How  was  it  that, 
though  addressed  by  me,  thou  didst  not  answer  ? '  He  replied  r 
'  Agni  Vaisvanara  was  in  my  mouth.  I  did  not  answer  lest  he  should 
escape  from  my  mouth.'  'How  then,'  [rejoined  Gotama]  'did  it  come 
to  pass  [that  he  escaped]  ? '  [Videgha  answered]  :  '  As  thou  didst 
utter  the  words,  "  0  dropper  of  butter,  we  invoke,"  then,  at  the  men- 
tion of  butter,  Agni  Vaisvanara  flashed  forth  from  my  mouth  :  I  could 
not  retain  him,  he  issued  from  my  mouth.'" 

In  this  passage  the  gradual  advance  of  the  Aryas  with  their 
Brahmanical  worship,  from  the  banks  of  the  Sarasvatl  eastward  to  those 
of  the  Sadanira,  and  afterwards  beyond  that  stream,  is,  as  I  have  said, 
distinctly  indicated.     At  the  time  when  the  S'atapatha-brahmana  was 


404  ADVANCE  OF  THE  ASIANS  EASTWARD,  AND 

composed,  the  Brahmans  had  already  (as  "Weber  remarks)  dwelt  for  a 
long  time  in  the  country  beyond  the  Sadanira,  and  it  had  then  become 
a  principal  seat  of  the  Brahmanical  religion ;  as  Janaka,  the  king  of 
Videha,  appears  in  that  work  with  the  title  of  "  samrat,"  or  emperor. 
Thus  (S'atap.  Br.  si.  3,  1,  2),  we  have  the  following  notice :  "Janaka 
the  Vaideha  put  this  question  to  Tajnavalkya.  ']>ost  thou,  0 
Tajnavalkya,  know  the  Agnihotra  sacrifice  ?'  '  0  monarch,'  he  replied, 
'  I  know  it.'  "^  Professor  "Weber  makes  the  following  remarks  on  the 
legend  I  have  just  quoted  :  "  TJnder  the  name  of  Agni  Vai^vanara  (the 
Fire  which  burns  for  all  men),  the  sacrificial  worship  of  the  Brahmans 
appears  to  be  intended.  The  part  which  in  the  legend  the  priest 
plays  in  reference  to  the  king  is  mysterious ;  but  I  understand  it  to 
mean  that  he  compelled  him  to  propagate  the  Arian  worship  towards 
the  east.  The  Sadanira  presents  an  obstacle,  not  from  its  magnitude 
or  the  difficulty  of  crossing  it  (which  the  Ganges  and  Jumna  must 
have  previously  done  in  a  greater  degree),  but  from  the  inhospitable 
character  of  the  territory  beyond;  for  the  word  ' sravitaram,'  '  some- 
what flowing,'  designates  the  nature  of  the  tract  as  an  inundated 
swamp."  Even  after  Yidegha  Mathava  had  advanced  across  the  river, 
the  Brahmans  (as  the  Arians  are  here  called)  appear  to  have  remained 
for  a  long  time  on  its  western  bank,  and  to  have  only  crossed  m  greater 
numbers  after  the  king  with  his  people  had  cultivated  the  country ; 
until,  in  the  time  of  the  S'atap.  Br.,  it  had  attained  such  a  flourishing 
condition,  that  the  tradition  of  its  oceanic  origin  was  only  indistinctly 
preserved."    Ind.  Stud.  i.  pp.  178,  179. 

In  the  Vocabularies  of  Amara  Sinha,  i.  2,  3,  33,  and  Hemaohandra, 
4,  150,  Sadanira  is  given  as  a  synonym  of  Karatoya,  a  river  in  the 
north  of  Bengal  Proper.  But  as  the  Sadanira  is  in  this  passage 
described  as  forming  the  boundary  between  the  Kosalas  and  "Videhas, 
or  the  countries  of  Oudh  and  Forth  Behar,  it  seems  that  the  river  at 
present  called  the  Q-andak  must  be  meant. — "Weber,  as  above,  p.  181. 

•^  S'atap.  Br.  p.  846  :  Tad  ha  etaj  Janaho  Vaideho  Yajnavalhyam  papracKha 
"vettha  agnihotram  Jajnavalhya"  iti  "veda  samrad"  iti  |  See  also  S'atap.  Br.  xi. 
6,  2,  1,  p.  872,  where  Janaka  is  addressed  by  the  Brahmans  by  the  same  title. 

"  In  illustration  of  this,  a  line  of  the  Mahabh.  ii.  1078,  is  referred  to  by  "Weber, 
•which  states  that  Bhimasena,  in  the  course  of  his  conquest  of  the  eastern  country, 
came  to  the  territory  bordering  on  the  Himavat,  which  was  of  aqueous  origin :  tato 
ffimavatah  parivam  samabhyetya  jalodbhavam. 


SOtTTHWAED  ACROSS  THE  VINDHTA  RANGE.  405 

Lassen,  Ind.  Ant.  i.  64  (2nd  ed.),  remarks :  "  Some  lexicographers 
identify  the  Karatoya  with  the  Sadanira,  whilst  in  other  lists  they  are 
distinguished  from  each  other.  This  appears  to  be  the  correct  view  in 
the  present  case,  especially  as  Sadanira  means  always  'abounding  in 
water,'  and  might  be  applied  to  any  large  river." 

Lassen  (Zeitschrift  for  1839,  p.  22,  f.)  quotes,  for  another  purpose, 
and  comments  on,  the  following  passage  from  the  Mahabharata,  in 
which  the  name  of  the  Sadanira  occurs;  but  it  throws  no  light  on  its 
position.  "  Departing  from  the  Kurus  (from  Indraprastha),  they 
passed  through  the  middle  of  Kurujangala,  and  came  to  the  lovely 
Padma  lake.  Then  passing  Kalakuta,  they  crossed  successively  on 
one  mountain  (or  in  Ekaparvataka?)  the  rivers  Gandaki,  Maha^ona, 
and  Sadanira.  Having  then  crossed  the  beautiful  Sarayu,  and  seen 
the  eastern  Ko^ala,  they  crossed  the  river  Mala  CharmanvatI,  and 
came  to  Mithila."'*  In  this  passage  (if  any  order  has  been  pre- 
served), it  will  be  noticed  that  the  Sadanira  is  placed  between  the 
Gandaki  (whatever  stream  this  name  denotes)  and  the  Sarayu,  and  so 
to  the  west  of  the  latter  river.  Its  position  does  not,  therefore,  seem  to 
be  well  defined  in  the  ancient  Indian  authorities.  This,  however,  is  of 
little  consequence  for  our  present  purpose,  as  any  uncertainty  in  regard 
to  the  precise  locality  of  the  river  does  not  obscure  the  plain  and 
express  purport  of  the  legend,  viz.,  that  the  Brahmans  with  their 
worship  advanced  from  the  SarasvatI  eastward  to  Behar  and  Bengal. 

Sect.  TV.—Advanoe  of  the  Arians  from  the  JDoah  across  the  Vindhya 
Mountains;  and  their  conflicts  with  the  aboriginal  tribes  of  the  BeTchan. 

It  is  not  essential  for  the  object  which  I  have  in  view  to  attempt 
to  trace  with  any  precision  the  different  stages  in  the  progress  of  the 
Aryas  to  the  east  and  south,  which  a  review  and  comparison  of  the 
data  supplied  by  the  Brahmanas,  the  Eamayana,  and  the  Mahabharata 
may  enable  the  careful  investigator  to  determine,  and  to  refer  to 
particular  periods. 

'8  Mahabh.,  ii.  793 :  Kwubhyah  prasthitas  te  tu  madhyena  Kwujangalam  | 
Mamyam  Fadmasaro  gatva  KSlakutam  atltya  cha  \  Bandakm  cha  Mahasonam 
Sadanircm  tathaiva  cha  |  BTiaparvatake  nadyah  hramenaityavrajemta  te  \  Uttirya 
Sarayum  ramyam  drishtva  purvam  cha  Xosalam  |  Atltya  jagmur  Mithilam  Malum 
Charmamafim  nadlm]  \ 


406  COUNTEIES  EEFEERED  TO  IN  THE  EAMATANA. 

As  it  is  only  necessary  for  my  argument  to  prove  that  they  did 
advance  from  the  north-west  to  the  east  and  to  the  south,  and  that  in 
so  doing  they  came  into  contact  -with  aboriginal  races  -who  had  been 
in  previous  occupation  of  the  country,  it  will  suffice  for  this  purpose 
if  (after  the  foregoing  notice  of  their  progress  to  the  eastward)  I  now 
pass  on  to  that  great  southward  movement,  of  which  we  can  perhaps 
discern  the  indistinct  outlines  in  the  poetic  and  hyperbolical  narrative 
of  the  Ramayana. 

"The  Eamayana,"  remarks  Professor  Lassen  (Ind.  Ant.,  first  ed., 
i.  534;  second  ed.,  p.  646,  f.),  "in  the  proper  action  of  the  poem, 
designates,  for  the  most  part,  only  the  north  of  Hindustan  as  Arian." 
" It  represents  Mithila  and  Anga  in  the  east  as  Arian  countries;  and 
regards  the  Eekayas  in  the  west,  though  dwelling  beyond  the 
Sarasvati,  as  a  pure  Arian  race;  and  to  this  tribe  one  of  the  wives 
of  king  Daiaratha  belongs."  Among  the  persons  who  were  to  be 
invited  to  the  sacrifice  of  that  monarch  are  the  following,  Eamayana, 
Schlegel's  ed.,  i.  12,  20,  ff.  (=Bombay  ed.,  section  13,  21,  ff. ;  and 
Gorresio's  ed.,  12,  18,  if.):  MithiladMpatiffi,  iuram  Janakam  dridha- 
vihramam  |  nishthitarh  sarva-sastreshu  \  tathd  vedeshu  msh{Mtam  |  .  .  .  | 
tatha  Kekaya-rajanam  vriddham  parama-dharmiham  \  kvakwram' raja- 
simhasya  sa-putram  tvam  ihanaya  \  Angeivarmn  cha  rajanam  Lomapadam 
susatlcritam  \  suvratam  deva-sankaiam  svayam  evanayasva  ha  \  Pradhyamk 
cha  Sindhusawlran  Savrashtreya0ii  cha  parthwan  \  Bakshinatyan  naren- 
drami  oka  sarvdn  anaya  ma  chiram  \  "  [Bring]  Janaka,  the  heroic  king 
of  Mithila,  of  stubborn  valour,  versed  in  all  the  S'astras,  and  in  the 

Vedas Bring  also  the  aged  and  very  righteous  king  of  the 

Kekayas,  the  father-in-law  of  the  lion-like  king,  together  with  his 
son;  and  thyself'  bring  Lomapada,  the  devout  and  god-like  king  of 
the  Angas,  paying  him  aU  honour.  And  bring  speedily  aU  the  eastern, 
the  Sindhusauvira,  the  Surashtra,  and  the  southern  monarchs." 

The  word  "southern  kings"  may,  Lassen  says,  be  employed  here 
in  a  restricted  sense,  or  inexactly,  for  from  other  parts  of  the  poem  it 
appears  that  the  country  to  the  south  of  the  Yindhya  was  still  un- 
occupied by  the  Aryas.  Even  the  banks  of  the  Ganges  are  represented 
as  occupied  by  a  savage  race,  the  Mshadas.  Thus  we  are  told  in  the 
Earn.,  ii.  50,  33,  ff.,  Bombay  ed.  (=ii.  50,  18,  ff.,  Schlegel's  ed. ; 
and  ii.  47,  9,  ft  in  Gorresio's  ed.)  (a  curious  passage,  which  I  shall 


FEIENDSHIP  OF  EAMA  AND  THE  NISHADA  CHIEF.  407 

cite  at  some  length.) :  Tatra  raja  6uho  ndma  Ramasyatma-samah  sakha  \ 
Nishada-jdtyo  halavan  sthapatU  cheti  visrutah  |  sa  srutvd  purusha-vya- ' 
ghraih  Rdmam  vishayam  agatam  \  vriddhaih  pmrivrito  'mdtyair  j'tiaiMU 
chdpy  upagatah  \  tato  Nishddddhipati'fh  drishpa  durad  vpastfdtam  \ 
saha  Saumitrina  Rdmah  mmdga6h}j,ad  Guhena  aah  \  tam  artah  sampa- 
rishvajya  Guho  Rdghavam  ahravit  \  "yathd  'yodhyd  tathedarh  te  Rdma 
Mm  Icaravdni  te  \  Idrisam  hi  mahdhdho  hah prapsyaty  atitMm priyam"  j 
tato  gunavad  annddyam  updddya  prithagvidham  \  wrghyam  ohopdnayaoh 
chhigram  vdhyam  ehedam  wodcha  ha\  "  svdgatam  te  mahdhdha  taveyam 
akhild  mahl  |  vayam  preshydh  hhavdn  hhartd  sadhu  rdjyam  prasddhi 
nah  "  I  .  .  .  .  Guham  evam  bruvdnam  tu  Rdghavah  pratyuvdcha  ha  \ 
"  CMTcJiitdi  ehaiva  hrishfdi  eha  Ihavatd  sanadd  vayam  \  padlhydm  abhi- 
gamdch  ehawa  sneha-sanda/rsanena  cha  "  |  hhujdhhydm  sddhu-vrittdbhydm 
pidayan  vahyam  dbravit  \  "  dishtyd  tvam  Guha  pasyami  hy  arogam 
saha  hdndhavaih"  \  "There  [there  was]  a  king  called  Guha,  of  the 
race  of  the  Mshadas,  a  friend  whom  Rama  regarded  as  himself,  and 
renowned  as  a  powerful  chief  (sthapati).''  He,  hearing  that  the 
eminent  Eama  had  come  to  his  country,  approached  him  attended  by 
his  aged  ministers  and  relations.  Eama  then,  along  with  the  son  of 
Sumitra  (i.e.  Lakshmana),  seeing  from  a  distance  that  the  Mshada 
king  had  arrived,  met  him.  Guha,  distressed  (at  the  state  in  which 
he  saw  Eama),  embraced  him,  and  said :  '  This  country  is  thine,  like 
(thine  own)  Ayodhya.  "What  can  I  do  for  thee  ?  Por  who  shall  find 
a  guest  80  dear  as  thou  art?'  He  then  brought  excellent  food  of 
various  sorts,  and  quickly  presented  the  customary  'arghya'  (offering); 
and  then  said :  'Welcome,  large-armed  hero,  this  whole  earth  is  thine  : 
we  are  thy  servants,  thou  art  our  master:  rule  over  our  kingdom 
prosperously.'  ....  Eama  replied  thus  to  this  address  of  Guha: 
'  "We  have  always  been  honoured  by  thee,  and  we  have  been  delighted 
with  thee ;  both  by  thy  coming  on  foot  to  meet  us,  and  by  thy  dis- 
play of  affection.'  Then  pressing  (Guha)  with  his  holy  arms,  he 
said :  '  Happily,  0  Guha,  I  behold  thee  and  aU  thy  kinsfolk  in  good 
health,' "  etc.™    This  chieftain  provided  a  boat  to  ferry  Eama  with 

^'  See  the  first  volume  of  this  wort,  p.  366,  note  164,  and  the  gloss  of  Govinda 
Ananda  on  Brahma  Sutra,  i.  3,  34.    Bibliotheca  Indica,  p.  317. 

10"  It  is  singular  that  a  Nishada  should  be  here  represented  as  a  friend  of  Eama, 
"equal  to  (or,  dear  as)  himself,"  and  whom  he  affectionately  embraces.  The  com- 
mentator thus  tries  to  explain  the  matter :  Tadyapi  tdriia-saJchyam  "  hma-preshj/am 


408  DEEHAN  HO"W  DESCRIBED  IN  THE  EAMAYANA. 

his  wife  and  brother  across  the  Ganges  (Earn..,  Schegel's  ed.  ii.  52, 
TV.  4-7  and  68,  S.,  =  Bombay  ed.  ii.  52,  5,  ff.,  74,  ff.) :  and  after- 
wards attended  on  his  other  brother,  Bharata,  when  he  also  passed  the 
same  way.  (Earn.,  Schegel's  and  Bombay  editions ;  ii.  83,  20,  and  84, 
1,  10,  etc.) 

In  the  same  poetical  narrative,  the  DandLaka  forest  is  represented 
as  beginning  immediately  to  the  south  of  the  Jumna.  The  whole 
country  from  this  point  to  the  Godavari  is  described  as  a  wilderness, 
over  which  separate  hermitages  are  scattered,'"'  while  wild  beasts  and 
Eakahasas  everywhere  abound.""  "The  Eamayana,"  says  Lassen 
(first  ed.,  i.  535;  second  ed.,  pp.  647,  f.),  "contains  the  narrative  of 
the  first  attempt  of  the  Arians  to  extend  themselves  to  the  south  by 


hlna-sahhyam"  ity  adina  wpapatakeshu ganitam  tathapi  tad vipra-vishm/am\  rajnam 
atavika  -  balena  prm/ycmavattrnt  shadvidha-bala-sangrahasya  raja-dharmatvaeheha 
tat-sakliyam  eva  iti  dik  \  atra  idam  hodhyam  Nishada  -  Guha-vishm/e  SSmasya 
"  atmasamah  aakha "  ity  evam  vadata  Valmikina  Mama-samatva'Rama-samdna- 
khyatitvoktya  bhagmiad-bhahtatvena  Nishadatve  'pi  pUna-krita-sravanSdimattvena 
tasya  tattvajnatvam  suchitam  |  "  Although  such  a  friendship  is,  according  to  the 
words  (no  doubt  of  some  smriti),  'the  service  of  the  low,  and  the  friendship  of  the 
low,'  etc.,  reckoned  among  the  minor  sins,  yet  this  refers  to  Brahmans,  since  in  the 
case  of  kings  such  friendship  is  owing  to  the  need  they  have  of  a  force  of  people 
living  in  the  forests,  and  it  is  part  of  a  king's  duty  to  collect  a  force  of  six  kinds 
of  soldiers.  Here  it  is  to  be  understood  that  Valmiki,  when  he  describes  the  Nishada 
Guha  as  being  a  '  friend  dear  to  Eama  as  his  own  soul,'  by  speaking  of  his  equality 
with  Rama,  and  of  his  being  in  the  same  category  with  Rama,  intimates  that  he 
had, — through  his  devotion  to  the  Divine  Being,  and  although  now  in  the  state  of 
a  Nishada,  yet  by  what  he  had  formerly  done  and  heard, — attained  to  a  knowledge 
of  the  highest  truth." 

">'  Ram.  iii.  1,  1,  Bombay  ed.  (=  iii.  6,  1,  Gorresio) :  Fravisya  tu  maharanyam 
DmdctJcdranyam  atmavan  |  Jiamo  dadarsa  dwrdiwrshas  tapasasrama-mandalam] 
Rama  alludes  to  the  vastness  of  the  forest,  iii.  11,  31,  Bombay  ed.  (=iii.  15,  33, 
Gorresio) :  Na  tu  j'anami  tain  desam  vanasyasya  mahattaya  \  Kuiralrama-padam 
ramyam  maha/rshes  tasya  dhimatah  |  "From  the  vastness  of  the  forest,  I  cannot 
discover  the  spot  where  the  sacred  hermitage  of  the  great  and  wise  rishi  exists. 

'"2  At  a  later  period,  after  the  commencement  of  the  Mahomedan  inroads  into 
Hindustan,  southern  India  came  to  be  regarded  as  the  sanctuary  of  the  Brahmanical 
religion  and  learning.  Thus  in  the  verse  of  Vyasa  cited  by  "Weber  (Hist,  of  Ind. 
Lit.,  p.  247,  note),  it  is  said:  Samprapte  tu  kalau  kale  Vindhyadrer  uttare  sthiiah\ 
Brahmamh  yqjharahitah  jyotih-sastra-parangmukhah  \  "In  the  Eali  age  the 
Brahmans  living  to  the  north  of  the  Vindhya  are  destitute  of  sacrifice,  and  averse  to 
astronomy ;"  while  another  law  book,  quoted  by  the  same  writer,  says :  Vindhyasya 
dakshine  bhage  yatra  Godavarl  sthita  \  tatra  Vedaioha  yajnasoha  bhavishyanti  Kalau 
yuge  \  "  In  the  Eali  age  the  Vedas  and  sacrifices  will  be  found  to  the  south  of  the 
Vindhya,  on  the  banks  of  the  Godavarl." 


AGASTYA  IN  THE  DEKHAN;  THE  EAKSHASAS.  409 

conquest ;  but  it  presupposes  the  peaceable  extension  of  Brabmanieal 
missions  in  the  same  direction,  as  having  taken  place  stUl  earlier. 
Bama,  when  he  arrives  on  the  south  of  the  Vindhya  range,  finds 
there  the  sage  Agastya,  by  whom  the  southern  regions  had  been 
rendered  safe  and  accessible.  Agastya  appears  as  the  adviser  and 
guide  of  Eama,  and  as  the  head  of  the  hermits  settled  in  the  south. 
In  this  legend  we  cannot  but  recognize  the  recoUeotion  that  the  south 
was  originally  a  vast  forest,  which  was  first  brought  into  cultivation 
by  Brahmanical  missions.  The  Eakshasas  who  are  represented  as 
disturbing  the  sacrifices  and  devouring  the  priests,  signify  here,  as 
often  elsewhere,  merely  the  savage  tribes  which  placed  themselves  in 
hostile  opposition  to  the  Brahmanical  institutions.  The  only  other 
actors  who  appear  in  the  legend  in  addition  to  these  inhabitants  are 
the  monkeys,  which  ally  themselves  to  Eama,  and  render  him  assist- 
ance. This  can  only  mean  that  when  the  Arian  Kshatriyas  first  made 
hostile  incursions  into  the  south,  they  were  aided  by  another  portion 
of  the  indigenous  tribes.  Eama  reinstates  in  possession  of  his  ancestral 
kingdom  a  monkey-liing  who  had  been  expelled,  and  in  return  receives 
his  assistance." 

Whether  or  not  we  concur  with  Lassen  in  thinking  that  the  idea  of 
the  monstrous  characteristics  which  are  assigned  to  these  gigantic 
demons,  the  Eakshasas,  have  been  borrowed  from  the  barbarous  tribes 
whom  the  Brahmanical  anchorites  found  in  occupation  of  the  forests, 
and  from  whom  they  would  no  doubt  suffer  continual  molestation  and 
cruelty  (and  perhaps  this  view  derives  some  confirmation  from  the  fact 
that  both  the  rude  aboriginal  races,  and  cloud-demons,  and  malignant 
sprites  appear  to  be  denoted  by  the  word  Dasyu  in  the  Vedic  hymns), 
— or  whether  we  regard  them  as  poetical  creations,  in  which  the  Indian 
imagination  runs  riot  in  the  description  of  coarse  and  grotesque  brutal- 
ity,— there  can  be  no  doubt  that  southern  India  was  at  the  period 
refereed  to  but  partially  cultivated,  and  that  it  had  only  begun  to  be 
occupied  by  Arian  colonists.  The  following  are  some  of  the  passages 
of  the  Eamayana  in  which  the  atrocities  of  the  Eakshasas  are 
described.  An  aged  rishi,  the  spokesman  of  the  hermits  in  the 
neighbourhood  of  Chitrakuta,  thus  represents  to  Eama  the  sufferings 
to  which  they  were  exposed,  Eam.,  ii.  116,  11,  ff.  (Bombay  ed.  Comp. 
Gorresio's  ed.,  iii.*l,  15,  ff.) :    Ravanavarajah  kahliit  Kharo  nameha 

VOL.  II,  27 


410  DESCRIPTION  OF  THE  EAKSHASAS 

rahhasah  \  utpatya  tdpasdn  sarvdn  janasthana-nwdsinah  \  12  | 
dhrishtak  chajitakdil  cha  nrisam&ah  pwrushddakah  \  avali/ptak  cha  papas 
cha  tvdm  cha  tdta  na  mrishyate  \  13  |  tvam  yada-pralhriti  hy  asminn 
airame  tdta  vartase  \  tada-prabhriti  rakshdmsi  viprahurvanti  tdpasdn  | 
14  I  dariayamti  hi  htbhataaih  Icrurair  bhtshanaiair  api  \  ndnd-rupair 
virupais  cha  rupair  asukha-dm-ianaih  |  15  |  apraSastair  asuohibhih 
mmprayujya  cha  tdpasdn  \  pratighnanty  apardn  kshipram,  andrydh 
puratah  sthitdn  |  16  |  teshu  teslm  d&rama-sthdneshm  abuddham  avaliya 
cha  I  ramante  tdpasdms  tatra  na^ayanto  'Ipaohetasah  \  17  |  avakshipanti 
srug-lhdnddn  agnin  sinchamti  vdrina  \  kala^dmS  cha  pramardanti  havane 
samwpasthite  \  18  |  tai/r  diirdtmahhir  dvishtdn  d&ramdn  prcyighdmsa/oah  \ 
gamandydnya-desasya  chodayanty  rishayo  'dya  mdm,  \  tat  purd  Edma 
sdririm  upahimsdm  tapasvishu  \  dariayanti  hi  dushtd^  te  tyahshydmah 
imam  dsramam\  "11,  12.  A  certain  Rakshasa,  called  Khara,  the 
younger  brother  of  Eavana,  fierce,  esteeming  himself  victorious,  cruel, 
a  man-eater,  arrogant,  wicked,  distresses  the  devotees  dwelling  in 
Janasthana  and  cannot  endure  thee.  13.  Prom  the  time  when  thou 
hast  dwelt  in  this  hermitage  the  Rakshasas  distress  the  devotees. 
14.  They  show  themselves  in  various  disgusting,  cruel,  terrible,  and 
ugly  forms.  15.  And  these  base  {andrya)  wretches  harass  others  by 
bringing  them  into  contact  with  vile  and  impure  objects.  16.  These 
foolish  beings  coming  unperceiyed  and  disguised'"''  into  different  places 
near  the  hermitages  take  delight  in  destroying  the  ascetics.  17. 
They  cast  away  the  sacrificial  ladles  and  vessels,  put  out  the  fires  with 
water,  and  smash  the  water-jars  at  the  time  of  the  oblation.  18. 
Desiring  to  desert  the  hermitages  infested  by  these  malignant  wretches, 
the  rishis  to-day  are  urging  me  to  go  to  another  place.  19.  The 
wicked  ones  already  show  a  desire  to  inflict  bodily  injury  on  the 
ascetics  :  we  shall  abandon  this  hermitage." 

Proceeding  on  his  journey  through  the  forest,  Eama  encounters 
Viradha,  a  Rakshasa,  who  is  thus  described.  Ram.  Bombay  ed.  iii.  2, 
4,  ff.  (Grorresio's  ed.  iii.  7,  5,  ff.) :  Badaria  giriiringdlham  purushd- 
dam  mahdsvanam  \  5  |  gahhtrdhham  mahdvaktram  vikatam  vikatodaram  \ 

103  The  original  words  are;  Ahaddham  and  avatiya,  wliioh  the  commentator 
explains  as  "abuddham"  aviditam  yatha  bhavati  tatha  nidradau  "avaliya  cha" 
nirbhayam  asKshya  cha  \  "  Unknown,  in  sleep,  etc. ;  and  fearlessly  insinuating 
themselves."  G-oiTesio's  edition  substitutes  the  words  llnali  vikrita-dardanafy, 
"dissolved"  [into  air]  and  "  changed  in  appearance." 


AND  THEIR  PRACTICES.  41 1 

lihhatsarh  vishamam  dtrgham  vikritam  ghora-darianam  \  6  |  vasanam 
eharma  vaiydg})/ra&  vasardvam  rudhirolcshitam  \  trasanam  sarva-hhutd- 
nam  vyaditasyam  wantakam  \  7  |  trm  simhams  chattcro  vydghrdn  dvau 
vrikau  prishatdn  daia  \  savishdnam  vasd-dtgdham  gajmya  cha  siro  mdhat  \ 
wnasajyayase  iule  vinadantam,  mahdsvanam  |  "He  beheld  a  being  like 
a  mountain  peak,  a  man-eater,  loud-voiced,  (5)  hoUow-eyed,  large- 
moutbed,  bnge,  huge-belUed,  horrible,  rude,  long,  deformed,  of  dread- 
ful aspect,  (6)  wearing  a  tiger's  skin,  dripping  with  fat,  wetted  with 
blood,  terriflc  to  all  creatures,  like  Death  with  open  mouth,  (7)  bearing 
three  lions,  four  tigers,  two  wolves,  ten  deer,  and  the  great  bead  of  an 
elephant  with  the  tusks,  and  smeared  with  fat,  on  the  point  of  an  iron 
pike,  shouting  with  a  loud  voice."  '"* 

This  demon,  who  was  slain  by  Eama,  turned  out  to  be  a  Gandharva, 
who  by  a  curse  had  been  transformed  intO'  a  Kakshasa ;  but  now  on  his 
death,  regains  his  primeval  form.  He,  nevertheless,  requests  that  bis 
body  shall  be  buried  after  the  manner  of  the  Rakshasas ;  Eam.,  Bomb, 
ed.  iii.  4,  22  (Gorresio  iii,  8,  19) :  Avate  chdpi  mark  Rdma  nikshipya 
kuiali  vraja  \  ralcshasdm  gafa-satvdndm  esha  dharmah  sandtanah  \  23  | 
mate  ye  nidhiyante  teshdrh  lokah  satdtandh  |  .  .  .  .  |  27  |  tatah  kha- 
nitram  ddaya  Lakshmamh  ivabhram  uttamam  |  akhanat  parivatas 
tasya  Vwddhmya  mahdtmanah  \  28  |.  tarn  mukta-kantham,  uthsTiipya 
iankukarnam  mahdsvanani  \  Virddham  pvdkshipat  ivahhre  nadantam 
hhairavasvanam  \  "And,  Eama,  cast  me  into  a  trench,  and  go  away 
prosperously,  for  such  is  the  immemorial  custom  in  regard  to  deceased 

iM  The  Nishadas  also  are  described  in  the  Puranas  as  very  black  and  ugly,  but 
differ  from  the  Rakshasas  in  being  very  short.  See  the  first  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  301, 
303,  and  "Wilson's  Vishnu-Pur.  2nd  ed..  i.  181.  The  Bhag.-Pur.,  iv.  14,  43-46,  thus 
describes  them: — "  Vinisehityaivam  rishm/o  vipannasi/a  mahtpateh  \  mamemthm- 
urum  tarasa  tatrasid  bdfmko  narah  \  kakaJcrishno  'tihrasvango  hrasvabahw  maha- 
hanuh  \  Hrusvitpad  nimnanasagro  raktakshaa  tamramurdhajah  \  Tain  tu  te  'vanatam 
dlnam  kirn  karomtti  vadinam  |  nishidety  abruvams  tata  sa  nishadas  tato  'bhcwat\ 
Tasya  vamdastu  naishadah  giri-kanana-goeharah  |  "  The  yishis  having  thus  resolved, 
vigorously  rubbed  the  thigh  of  the  defunct  king  (Vena),  when  there  issued  from  it  a 
servile  man,  black  as  a  crow,  very  short  in  limb,  with  short  arms,  large  jaws,  short 
feet,  pendent  nose,  red  eyes,  and  copper-coloured  hair.  This  man,  humble  and  bowed 
down,  asked  them  what  he  should  do.  They  answered,  'Sit  down'  {nishtda),  and 
he,  in  consequence,  became  a  Nishada.  His  descendants  are  the  Naishadas,  who 
dwell  in  hiUs  and  forests."  We  are  informed  by  Prof.  Wilson  that  the  Padma 
Purana  (Bhu.-K.)  "  has  a  similar  description,  adding  to  the  dwarfish  stature  and 
black  complexion,  a  wide  mouth,  large  ears,  and  a  protuberant  belly. ' ' 


412  THE  EAKSHASAS  AND  THE  ANCHORITES. 

Eakshasas ;  suet  of  them  as  are  so  interred  attain  to  ever-enduring 
worlds."  ..."  27.  Then  Lakshmana,  taking  a  spade,  dug  a  suitable 
trench  by  the  side  of  the  great  Viradha.  28.  And  raising  the  pin- 
eared/"'  loud-voiced  Eakshasa,  after  Eama  had  removed  his  foot  from 
his  throat,  he  cast  him  into  the  trench,  resounding  dreadfully."'™ 
This  may  aUude  (as  "Weber  remarks,  Ind.  Stud.  i.  272,  note)  to  a 
difference  between  the  funeral  rites  of  the  Brahmanical  Indians  and 
the  aboriginal  tribes. 

The  following  are  two  further  passages  in  which  the  Eakshasas  and 
their  oppression  of  the  anchorites  are  described.  The  sufferers,  it 
appears,  assert  that  they  possess  the  power  of  ridding  themselves  of 
their  enemies  by  their  superhuman  faculties ;  but  these  faculties  they 
do  not  choose  to  exert,  for  the  reason  assigned.  Eam.,  Bombay  ed.,  iii. 
6,  15,  ff.  (Gorresio's  ed.  iii.  10,  16,  ff.) :  So  'yam  Irahmma-hkayishtho 
vanaprastha-gano  mahan  \  ixa/rmatho  'nathdvad  Rama  Rakshasair  homy  ate 
hhrisam  \  ehi  paiya  ka/nrani  mumnam  hhavitatmandm  \  hatanam. 
Rakshasair  ghorair  bahundm  hahudha  vane  \  Pampa-nadl-nivasanam  anu 
Mandakinim  ,  api  \  Chitralcutalayandm  eha  Icriyate  Tcadanam,  mahat  \ 
"  This  large  company  of  hermits,  principally  Brahmans,  whose  lord 
thou  art,  is  slaughtered  by  the  Eakshassts,  as  if  they  had  no  protector. 
Come,  Eama,  and  behold  the  bodies  of  numerous  meditative  munis, 
lying  slain  by  the  Eakshasas  in  many  parts  of  the  forest.  A  great 
slaughter  is  being  perpetrated  of  the  dwellers  on  the  Pampa,  and  the 
Mandakini,""  and  the  residents  on  Chitrakuta."  Eam.  iii.  10,  10, 
Bombay  ed.  (= Gorresio's  ed.  iii.  14,  11,  ff.):  10  |  Rakshasair  Dan- 
dakaranye   hahulhih  kamarUpihhih  \   1 1  |  arditah  sma  hhrihm   Rama 

1°^  The  sense  of  the  epithet  s'lmku-karna  is  not  clear.  It  is  compounded  of 
sanku,  a  "pin,"  "peg,"  or  "stake,"  and  karna,  "ear."  The  commentator  explains 
s'anku  by  scmku-vat  kathinam,  "  hard  as  a  pin." 

'"^  In  the  seqnel,  however,  Eama  encounters  Kabandha,  another  Eakshasa,  whom 
at  his  request  Laksmana  burns  on  a  funeral  pile  in  a  trench. — Earn.  iii.  71,  31 ;  72, 
1,  ff.  (  =  Gorr.  sec.  75,  Terses,  45,  50,  ff.) 

""  Here  it  will  be  observed  that  the  name  of  a  river  in  the  Himalaya  [a  branch  of 
the  Granges,  flowing  down  from  the  glacier  of  Kedarnath ;  see  the  first  volume  of  this 
work,  lat  ed.,  p.  187,  note;  Eamayana,  iv.  44,  94,  Gorresio's  ed.  saptarshi-bhma- 
nam  tatra  tatra  Mandakim  nadi  \  "  There  (in  the  country  of  the  Uttara  Kurus)  is 
the  abode  of  the  seven  rishis ;  there  is  the  river  MandakinI ;"  and  my  "  Notes  of  a 
trip  to  Kedarnath,"  printed  in  1855  for  private  circulation,  p.  15,  f.]  is  applied  to 
a  river  in  the  centre  of  India.  This  illusti-ates  what  has  been  said  above  (pp.  344, 
347  and  349)  about  the  application  of  the  same  name  to  different  stoeams. 


THE  EAKSHASAS,  THE  ANCHORITES,  AND  AGASTTA.        413 

hhavan  nas  tatra  rakshatu  \  'homa-Mlk  tu  samprdpte  pm-va-liokahu 
cJtanagha  |  12  |  dharnhayanti  sma  durdhwrshah  Ralcahasdh  piiitasanah  | 
Rahshamir  Marshitmam  eha  tdpasandm  tapasvinam  |  13  |  ffatim  mri- 
gayelmdndndmi  bhavdn  nah  paramd  gatih  \  Tcdmam  tapa^-prahhavena 
sahtdh  hantum  nUdehardn  |  14 1  chirdrjltam  na  eheohhdmas  tapah 
Hhan^ayitwih  vayam  \  hahmighnam  tapo  nityam  duioharam  chaiva  Ra- 
ghava  |  15  |  tena  sdpafn  na  munohdmo  hhahhyamdnai  eha  RdlcshaBaih  \ 
10,  11.  "We  are  greatly  harassed  by  numerous  Eakstasas  in  the 
Dandaka  forest,  who  change  their  forms  at  will.  At  the  time  of 
ofEering  the  oblation  and  on  festivals,  (12)  the  fierce,  flesh-devouring 
Rakshasas  assail  us.  Of  us,  the  devout  ascetics,  thus  assailed,  and  (13) 
seeking  a  helper,  thou  art  the  supreme  defence.  It  is  true  that  by  the 
power  of  our  austerities  we  could  at-will  slay  these  goblins;  (14)  but 
we  are  unwilling  to  nullify  the  merit  which  has  been  earned  by  long 
exertion.  The  acquisition  of  such  merit  is  arduous,  and  attended  with 
many  obstacles :  (15)  it  is  on  that  account  that,  even  while  being 
devoured,  we  abstain  from  laiinching  curses  against  our  oppressors." 
The  utterance  of  a  curse,  it  appears  from  this  passage,  was  an  act  which 
neutralized  the  sanctity  of  him  who  pronounced  it.  Compare  the  story 
of  Visvamitra  in  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  p.  408.  Sita,  however, 
thinks  that  her  husband  Kama  has  no  right  to  slay  the  Eakshasas, 
*ho  were  not  in  a  state  of  hostility  with  him,  and  had  done  him  no 
injury.™ 

It  does  not  appear,  however,  why  the  aid  of  Eama  should  have  been 
so  earnestly  invoke^  as  the  sage  Agastya  appears  to  have  been  per- 
fectly successful  in  keeping  the  Eakshasas  under  restraint.  His  prowess 
is  thus  described,  Earn.  iii.  11,  79;  Bombay  ed.  (=  Gorresio's  ed.  iii. 
17,  17,  ff.) :  Agastyah  iti  vikhydto  hko  svmaiva  lcarmand\  asramQ 
drisyaie  tasya  parisranta-irarndpahakl  .  .  .  .  [  81  ]  Nigrihya  tarasa 
mTitywSi  lokdndm  Mta-hamyaga  |  dakshind  dik  hrita  yena  koKranya, 
pmyakarmand  |  82  |  Tdsyedam  dkrama-padam  prabhdvdd  yasya  rdhsha- 
eaih  \  dig  iya0i  dakshina  trdsdd  dfUyate  nopabhy'yate  |  83  |  yadd- 
■prabhriti  ehdhrdntd  dig  iyrnn  punyaharmakd  \  tadd-prabhriti  nirvairdh 
prasdntalj,  rajcmlehwrah  |   84  |   Ndmna  cheyam  Ihagavato  dakshina  dik 

'"8  Earn.  iii.  9,  24,  Bomb.  ed.  (=Gorr.  ed.  iii.  13,  22) :  Na  Jiathcmchana  aa  harya 
grihlta-dhanuaha  tvat/a  \  buddhir  vairam  vinS,  hantum  Hakshasan  Bandahairiian  | 
aparadham  vina  hantum  loleo  vira  na  mamayate  | 


414  WONDERFUl  POWERS  OF  THE  SAINT  AGASTYA. 

pradahhina  \  prathita  trishu  lokeshm  durdharsha  krura-karmabhih  \ 
85  I  Margwm  niroddhum  sataiam  IMskwrasyachalottamah  \  sandesam 
palayam  tasya  Vindhyasailo  na  vardhate  \  ....  |  90  |  Natra  jwed 
mrishavadl  hruro  va  yadiva  sathah  \  nri&ammh  papmritto  va  mumr 
esha  iathavidhah  \  "79.  The  iermitage  of  Agastya,  renowned  in 
the  -world  by  his  holy  acts,  (that  hermitage)  which  offers  relief  to 

the  wearied,  is  now  in  view 81.  [This  is  the]  meritorious 

sage,  who  has  restrained  death  by  his  power,  and  who,  through  his 
benevolence  to  mankind,  has  rendered  the  southern  regions  perfectly 
secure  (see  above,  p.  409).  82.  This  is  the  hermitage  of  that  saint  by 
whose  might  it  is  effected  that  this  southern  region  is,  owing  to  their 
dread  of  him,  only  gazed  upon,  and  not  possessed,  by  the  Eakshasas. 
83.  Ever  since  that  holy  man  has  visited  this  region,  aU  the  goblins 
have  become  devoid  of  enmity  and  subdued.  84.  Through  the  name 
of  this  saint  this  southern  country  has  become  prosperous,  and  re- 
nowned in  the  three  worlds,  as  secure  against  the  attacks  of  the  cruel. 
85.  The  lofty  Vindhya  range  (which  sought  to  grow  to  a  gr^at  height), 
•with  the  view  of  stopping  the  path  of  the  sun,  now,  submissive  to  the 
sage's  command,  increases  no  farther."  ..."  90.  No  liar,  or  cruel, 
or  wicked,  or  murderous,  or  sinful  man  may  dwell  here : — such  is 
this  muni." 

In  a  preceding  part  of  the  same  section,  iii.  11,  65,  f.,  Bombay  ed. 
(=Gorresio's  ed.,  iii.  16,  13,  ff.),  the  destruction  of  two  Asuras  called 
Yatapi  and  Ilvala,  by  this  sage,  is  described :  Ihaikada  hila  hruro  Vatdpir 
api  chekalah  \  bhratarau  sahitdv  dstam  Irdhmana-ghnau  maliasurau  |  56 1 
Dhdrayan  Irdhmanam  rupam  Ihdlah  samskritam  vadan  |  dmantrayata 
vipran  sa  iraddham  uddiiya  nirghrimh  |  57  |  Bhrdtmram  samskritam 
kritva  tatOiS  tarn  meshorrupinam  \  tdn  doijdn  bhoj'aydmdsairdddha-drishtena 
karmand\58\  Tato  Ihuktamatdm  teshdm  viprdnam  Ihalo  'hravlt\  "Vdtdpe 
nishkramasv  "  eti  svarena  mahatd  vadan  \  59  |  Taio  Ihrdtur  vaehak  irutvd 
Vatdpir  mesha-vad  nada/n  |  hhitvd  hhitvd  ia/rirani  hrdhmanandm  vinish- 
patat^"^  I  ....  I  61  I  Agastyena  tadd  devaih  prdrthitena  mahwrshind  | 

'»9  We  have  here  a  form  of  the  imperfect  -without  the  augment,  vinishpatat  for 
vinirapatat,  on  which  the  commentator  remarks  that  the  absence  of  the  augment 
is  Vedio  [ad-ahhavah  arshah).  In  Gorresio's  edition  the  perfect  nishpapata  is 
substituted.  In  i.  18, 17,  the  Bombay  edition  has  similarly  pushpa-vrisAtii  cha  khat 
palat,  "  a  sho-wer  of  flowers  fell  from  the  sky,"  where  the  commentator  makes  a 
similar  remark  [ad-abhavai  chhmdaaah). 


HE  EATS  VATAPI,  AND  KILLS  ILVALA.  415 

anubhUya  Icila  iraddJm  hhahtihita^  sa  mahasurah  \  62  |  Tatah  "sampan- 
nam"  ity  uHva  datva  haste  'vanejanam  \  hhrataram  '^ nuhramasv"  eti 
Ihalah  samabhashata  |  63  |  ;Sa  tadd  hhdshamdnam  tu  hhrataram  vipra- 
ghdtinam  \  ahravit  prahasan  dhimdn  Agastyo  munisattamah  \  64  |  "Kuto 
nishkramitum  kaktw  maya  jirnasya  Rakihasah  \  hhrdtus  tu  mesha- 
rupaiya  gatasya  Yama-sddanam "  \  65  |  Atha  tasya  vachah  irutvd 
ihrdtur  nidhana-samiritam  \  pradhwrshayitwm  drebhe  munim  krodhdd 
nisdeharah  \  "55.  Formerly  the  cruel  Vatapi  and  Ilvala,  two  brotliers, 
wlio  were  great  Asuras  and  slayers  of  Brahmans,  lived  together  here. 

56.  The  ruthless  Ilvala,  assuming  the  shape  of  a  Brahman,  and  speaking 
Sanskrit,  used  to  invite  the  Brahmans  to  a  funeral  ceremony  {srdddha). 

57.  He  then  served  up  to  them,  with  the  rites  appropriate  to  a  ^raddha, 
his  brother  Vatapi,  who  had  been  transformed  into  a  ram.  58.  But 
after  they  had  eaten  him,  he  called  out  with  a  loud  voice,  '  Vatapi,  issue 
forth.'  59.  Hearing  his  brother's  voice  Vatapi,  bleating  like  a  ram, 
issued  forth,  rending  asunder  the  Brahmans'  bodies."  Thousands  of 
Brahmans  were  constantly  killed  by  them  in  this  way.  "61.  The 
rishi  Agastya,  however,  at  the  request  of  the  gods,  understanding  the 
state  of  things,  devoured  Vatapi.  62.  Ilvala  then  cried,  '  All  is  com- 
plete,' gave  him  water  to  wash  his  hands,  and  called  to  his  brother, 
'  Issue  forth.'  63.  The  wise  rishi,  however,  smiled  and  said  to  the 
Brahman-slayer  who  thus  addressed  his  brother,  '  How  can  he  come 
forth,  when  he  has  been  digested  by  me  in  his  form  of  a  ram,  and  has 
gone  to  the  abode  of  Tama?'  65.  Hearing  these  words  pronouncing 
his  brother's  doom,  Ilvala  began  to  assail  Agastya,"  but  but  was 
burnt  up  by  the  flash  of  his  eye.  ™ 

Agastya  is  again  spoken  of  (Ram.,  vi.  117,  14,  Bombay  ed.)  as  the 
conqueror  of  the  south : '"  Nirjitd  jlvahlcasya  tapasd  hhdvitdtmand  \ 
Agastyena  dwrddharshd  munind  dakshineva  dik  \    "As  the   southern 

"0  An  explanation  of  this  legend  is  suggested  by  "Weber,  Ind.  Stud.,  i.  475.  He 
thinks  it  may  partly  have  taken  its  rise  in  the  remembrance  of  some  cannibals  living 
in  the  Dekhau.  The  story  is  told  more  at  length  in  the  recension  of  the  text 
foEowed  by  Gorresio,  and  with  a  touch  of  humour.  Ilvala  asks  Agastya,  smiling, 
how  he  alone  will  be  able  to  eat  a  whole  ram.  Agastya,  also  smiling,  replies  that 
he  is  hungry,  after  his  many  years  of  fasting  and  austerities,  and  will  find  no  difficulty 
whatever  in  devouring  the  entire  animal ;  which  he  accordingly  begs  may  be  served 
up,  and  swallows  (iii.  16,  22,  ff.),  with  the  result  already  told. 

^''  On  Agastya  see  the  quotation  from  Lasfien  above,  p.  409 ;  and  Caldwell's 
Dravidian  Grammar, 


416  CHAEACTEEISTICS  OF  THE  ElKSHASAS. 

region,  unassailable  by  liviEg  beings,  was  conquered  by  the  medita- 
tive muni  Agastya,  thiougli  his  austerities." 

Vibhishana,  the  brother  of  EaTana,  is  represented  by  his  sister 
S'urpaBakha,  in  her  interview  with  Eama,  as  virtuous  and  one  who 
does  not  follow  the  practices  of  the  Eakshasas."'  Can  this  allude  to 
some  of  the  southern  tribes  or  chiefs,  who  allied  themselves  to  Eama, 
having  adopted  Brahmanical  usages,  or  is  it  merely  a  fictitious  portion 
of  the  story  2  Vibhishana  eventually  deserts  his  brother,  and  is  kindly 
received  and  embraced  as  a  friend  by  Eama."'  In  the  Eamopakhyana 
in  the  Third  Book  pf  the  Mahabh.,  verses  15,913-18,  while  Eavaga 
asks  Brahma  to  make  him  invincible  by  superhuman  beings,  Vibhi- 
shana, on  the  other  hand,  prays,  "that  even  in  the  greatest  calamity, 
he  may  never  incline  to  unrighteousness,  and  that  the  Brahmanical 
weapon  may  appear  to  him  a  thing  he  had  never  learned  to  wield.""* 
He  thus  indicates  his  submissive  disposition  towards  the  Brahmans. 

The  Eakshasas  are  described  by  Khara,  one  of  their  chiefs.  Bam.  iii. 
22,  8,  f.  (=Gorr.  ed.  iii.  28,  18),  as  being  "of  fearful  swiftness,  un- 
yielding in  battle,  in  colour  like  a  dark  blue  cloud."  "* 

Ehara  himself  is  characterized  by  Eama  as  the  "perpetual  enemy 
of  the  Brahmans," "°  as  "cruel,  hated  of  the  Brahmans,  devoid  of 
righteousness,  and  wicked.""'  Eavana  is  stigmatized  as  an  "over- 
thrower  of  religious  duties,  and  a  ravisher  of  the  wives  of  others ;"  "^ 
as  "  one  who  at  the  sacrifices  and  oblations  polluted  the  Soma  which 

""  Earn;,  Bombay  ed.,  iii.  17,  22 :  VUhlsIiams  tu  dharmatma  no.  tu  Ealcshaaa- 
cheshtUah  ( =  Gorresio's  ed.,  iii.  23,  38  :  Vibhlshanaa  cha  dharmatma  Bahshasaehdra- 
varjitah  \  \) 

"^  Kam.  (Gforresio's  ed.),  y.  91,  20 :  Tancha  Mamah  samutthapya parisheajya  cha 
Rakshasam  |  JJvacha  madhuram  vahyam  sakha  mama  bhavan  iti  \  The  Bombay  ed,, 
vi.  19,  24,  has  only  iti  hnmanam  Samas  tu  parish/vajya  VibhTshanam  |  abravil 
ZaksAmamam  ityadi  \ 

'^^^  Mahabh.,  iii.  15,918  i  Faramapadgatmyapi  nadharme  me  matir  bhavet\AHk- 
shitain  aha  bhagavan  brahtnastram  pratibhatu  me  \  "In  verse  15,197  Vibhishana 
is  styled  dharmagopta  kriyaratih,  "a  protestor  of  righteousness,  and  devoted  to 
religious  rites." 

"'  Eakahaaam  bhima-veganam  samareahv  anivarttimm  |  NtlaJTmuta-varnanam,  etc. 

"5  Earn.,  iii.  30,  12  (  =  Gorr.,  iii.  35,  68,  and  100) :  Nityam  brahmanakantaka. 

"'  Gorresio,  Ibid.,  verse  70 :  Kruratman  brahmavidvishfa  tyaktadharma  supa- 
pakrit. 

"8  Ibid,,  32,  12  (=  Gorr,  36,  11) :   Uchhetaram  cha  dharmanam paradarabhimar- 


THE  MONKEYS  ALLIES  OF  KAMA.  417 

the  Brahmans  had  offered  with  hymns ;"  and  as  a  "  snatcher  away 
of  prepared  sacrifices,  a  killer  of  Brahmans,  a  wicked  and  cruel 
being." "'  Nevertheless,  to  inspire  confidence,  Eavaaa  approaches 
Sita,  pronouncing  the  Yedas,  Earn.  iii.  46,  14,  (=  Gorr.  52,  20)."^° 

Under  the  designation  of  monkeys,  again,  which  play  so  important 
a  part  in  the  Eamayana,  have  we  another  class  of  the  aborigines,  who 
allied  themselves  to  the  Brahmans,  and  embraced  their  form  of  re- 
ligious worship ;  or  are  they,  as  well  as  the  Eakshasas,  merely  rude 
poetical  creations?  In  Kam.,  iii.  72,  18,  f.,  Bombay  ed.  (=  Gorr.,  iii-. 
75,  66),  it  is  said  that  "  Sugriva,  chief  of  the  monkeys,  is  not  to  be 
despised,  as  he  is  grateful,  can  change  his  form  at  will,  and  is  active  in 
aiding  his  friends.""'  And  we  are  told  that  at  the  inauguration  of 
this  same  Sugriva,  who  was  reinstated  by  Eama  in  his  kingdom,  from, 
which  he  had  been  expelled  by  Bali,  "  the  monkeys  gratified  the 
Brahmans  according  to  the  prescribed  rule,  with  gifts  of  jewels,  clothes, 
and  food :  after  which  men  skilled  in  the  Vedic  formulas  poured 
clarified  butter,  consecrated  by  sacred  texts,  upon  the  kindled  fire, 
under  which  had  been  spread  ku^a  grass."  "^ 

The  monkeys  are  described  as  living  in  a  cavern  (Eam.  (Bombay 
and  Gorresio's  editions),  iv.  33,  1,  ff.),  which  Lakshmana  is  represented 
as  entering  to  convey  a  message  of  remonstrance  to  Sugriva  for  his 
tardiness  in  aiding  Eama.  The  cavern,  however,  is  a  cave  only  in 
name,  as,  in  the  usual  style  of  later  Indian  poetry,  it  is  depicted  as 
filled  with  trees,  fiowery  thickets,  palaces,  a  mountain  stream,  etc. 
This  feature  of  monkey-life  (their  occupation  of  a  cavern)  may  be 
either  purely  poetical,  and  intended  to  be  in  keeping  with  their  other 

'"  Earn.,  32,  19  (=G£irr.  36,  11,  ff.) :  Mcmtrair  ahhishiutam pim/am  adhvanshu 
deijatibhih  \  hmirddneshu  yah  somam  iipahanti  mahabalaA  \  Fra^la-yajna-lmram 
dmht^am  brahmaghnam  krurakarinam  \ 

120  £rahma-g}ioshmn  udirayam  \  In  the  Mahabh.,  iii.  16,981,  the  sous  of  Vaitfra- 
vana,  Le.  Havana  and  his  brothers,  are  said  to  have  been  originally  sarve  veda-vidah 
surah  srvrve  smharita-vratafi,  "all  of  them  learned  in  the  Yedas,  heroic,  and  at- 
tentive to  religious  rites." 

'*'  Na  tu  te  so  ' vamantavyah  Sugrwo  mnarSdhipah  |  kfitajnah  Jeama/rupl  cha 
saKayarthe  cha  hrityavan  \    See  above,  p.  157. 

'22  Ram.,  iv.  26,  29,  ff.(=Gorr.  26,  27,  28) :  Tatas  te  mnaras'reshlham  abhishekttm, 
yathmidhi  \  Satnair  vastraii  cha  bhakshfaii  cha  toshayitvci  dvijarshabhan  |  30 1 
Tatah  kusa-paristirnam  samiddham  jatavedasam  \   Mantraputena  hmisha  hutva 


418        EPITHETS  APPLIED  TO  THE  EAKSHASAS  AND  DASTUS. 

characteristics,  or  it  may  have  reference  to  the  rude  habits  of  the 
aboriginal  inhabitants  of  the  southern  forests. 

I  need  not  decide  whether  it  is  more  probable  that  the  extravagant 
descriptions  of  the  gigantic  and  sylvan  inhabitants  of  the  Dekhan 
which  I  have  just  quoted,  should  have  originated  in  some  actual  and 
hostile  contact  with  the  savages  who  occupied  the  then  uncleared 
forests  of  that  region,  than  that  they  should  be  the  simple  offspring  of 
the  poet's  imagination. 

It  is  certain  that  the  description  given  of  the  Rakshasas  in  the  Eama- 
yana  corresponds  in  many  respects  with  the  epithets  applied  to  the 
similar  class  of  beings,  the  Dasyus  (whether  we  take  them  for  men  or  for 
demons),  who  are  so  often  alluded  to  in  the  Eigveda.  The  Eamayana, 
as  we  have  seen,  depicts  them  as  infesting  the  hermitages  or  settlements 
of  the  Arians,  as  obstructing  their  sacred  rites,"'  as  enemies  of  the 
Brahmans,  as  eaters  of  men,'"  as  horrible  in  aspect,  as  changing  their 
shape  at  will,  etc.,  etc.  In  the  same  way  the  Eigveda  (see  above, 
pp.  363,  371,  ff.,  and  390,  ff.)  speaks  of  the  Dasyus,  Eakshasas,  or 
Yatudhanas  as  being  "  destitute  of,  or  averse  to  religious  ceremonies  " 
{ahwrman,  avraia,  apmrata,  ayajyu,  ayajvan),  as  "practising  different 
rites''  {anymirata)  as  "godless"  {adeva,  aievayu),  "haters  of  prayer" 
{Irahmachish),  as  "inhuman"  {amdnusha),  "ferocious  looking,  or 
with  fierce  eyes  "  {ghora-chahshas),  as  "  flesh-eaters  "  {krmyad),  "  de- 
vourers  of  life,"  or  "insatiable"  {amtrip),  as  "eaters  of  human  and 
of  horse  flesh,"  (E.V.  x.  87,  16  :  Yah  paurmheyena  kravisha  samankte 
yo  aivyena  paiund  yatudhanah) ;  as  monstrous  in  form,  and  possessed  of 


"'  In  the  Mahabh.,  xiv.  2472-74,  the  same  hostile  act  which  is  so  often  assigned 
in  the  Eamayana  to  Bakshasas,  is  attributed  to  a  Nishada.  Arjnna  is  theie 
said  to  have  arrived  in  the  course  of  his  progress  to  the  south,  in  the  country  of 
Ekalavya,  king  of  the  Nishadas ;  and  to  have  vanquished  that  king's  son,  who  had 
come  to  obstruct  a  sacrifice  [yajna-vigh/nartham  igatam), 

"^  In  the  story  of  Gautama,  already  partially  quoted,  in  p.  366,  f.  from  the  Mahabh., 
the  very  same  epithet  of  "  man-eater  "  [purushada)  which  the  Eamayana  applies  to 
the  Eakshasas,  is  employed  to  characterize  the  Dasyus,  who  are  regarded  in  the 
Mahabh.  merely  as  a  tribe  of  savages,  and  not  as  demons.  The  Brahman  who  re- 
proaches Gautama  with  sinking  into  the  condition  of  a  Dasyu,  is  said  to  have  seen 
him  'coming  home  with  a  bow  in  his  hand,  his  limbs  besmeared  with  blood,  and  in 
appearance  like  a  man-eater,"  etc.  (  .  .  .  .  dhanush-panim  dhritayudham  \  JRitdhi- 
rmavasiktangam  griha-dvaram  tipagatam  |  Tain  drishtva  purmhadahham  apad/ivastam 
JeshaySgatam,  etc.) 


GOERESIO  ON  THE  EAKSHASAS  AND  MONKEYS.  419 

magical  or  superhuman  powers."*  It  is  quite  possible  that  the  author 
of  the  Eamayana  may  have  borrowed  many  of  the  traits  which  he 
ascribes  to  his  Eakshasas  from  the  hymns  of  the  Eigveda. 

The  last  editor  and  translator  of  the  Eamayana,  Signor  Gorresio, 
writes  as  follows  in  regard  to  the  fabulous  races  with  which  that  work 
has  peopled  the  Dekhan  (Notes  to  vol.  vi.  pp.  401,  402):  "The 
woodland  inhabitants  of  India  south  of  the  Vindhya  range  are  called 
in  the  Eamayana  monkeys,  in  contempt,  I  conceive,  of  their  savage 
condition,  and  also,  perhaps,  because  they  were  little  known  at  that 
time.  In  the  same  way  Homer  related  fabulous  stories  about  the  races 
who,  in  his  age,  were  unknown  to  the  Greeks.  The  occupants  of  the 
Dekhan  differed  from  the  Sanskrit-speaking  Indians  in  origin,  worship, 
and  language."  And  in  regard  to  the  Eakshasas  he  observes,  p.  402  : 
"  The  author  of  the  Eamayana  has  no  doubt,  in  mythical  allegory, 
applied  the  hated  name  of  Eakshasas  to  a  barbarous  people  who  were 
hostile  to  the  Sanskrit-speaking  Indians,  and  differed  from  them  in 
civilization  and  religion.  These  Eakshasas  were,  I  say,  robbers  or 
pirates  who  occupied  the  southern  coasts  of  India,  and  the  island  of 
Ceylon."  In  his  preface  to  the  last  volume  (the  tenth)  of  the  Eamayana 
(pp.  i-ix),  Signor  Gorresio  returns  to  this  subject;  and,  after  remark- 
ing that  the  Arian  tribes,  on  their  immigration  from  Northern  Asia  into 
the  Panjab,  had  to  encounter  indigenous  races  of  a  different  origin,™ 
whom  they  partly  drove  before  them,  and  partly  reduced  to  servitude, 
he  proceeds  to  make  a  distinction  between  the  savage  tribes  occupying 
the  Vindhya  and  its  neighbourhood  and  those  further  south.  The 
first,  whom  the  Eamayana  styles  Vanaras  or  monkeys,  though  they 
differed  from  the  Aryas  in  race,  language,  colour,  and  features,  must, 
he  thinks,  have  shown  a  disposition  to  receive  the  Arian  civilization ; 
since  they  entered  into  league  with  Eama,  and  joined  in  his  expedition 
against  the  black  tribes  further  south.     The  greater  part  of  the  tribes 

'"  In  E.V.,  iv.  4,  15,  another  epithet,  viz.  as'as,  "  one  ■who  does  not  praise  [the 
gods],"  is  applied  to  the  Eakshases.  Daha  aiaso  SaJcshasah pahi  asman  druho  nido 
mitramaho  avadyai :  "  Thou  who  art  to  be  revered  by  thy  friends,  burn  the 
Eakshases  who  offer  no  praise ;  deliver  us  from  the  reproach  of  the  oppressor  and 
the  reviler." 

"8  The  same  thing,  he  remarks,  happened  to  the  Semitic  races  also,  who  came 
into  contact  with  the  Hamitic  or  Cushitic  tribes,  some  of  them  nearly  savage,  as  the 
Eephaim  and  the  Zamzummim,  Deut.,  ii.  20, 


420  GOEKESIO  ON  THE  EAKSHASAS. 

south  of  the  Vindhya  also  submittfed  to  the  institutions  of  the  Atjas ; 
but  towards  the  extremity  of  the  peninsula  and  in  Ceylon,  there  was 
(Gorresio  believes)  a  ferocious  black  race,  opposed  to  their  worship. 
To  this  race  the  Arians  applied  the  name  of  Eakshasas,  an  appellation 
which,  ia  the  Teda,  is  assigned  to  hostile,  savage,  and  hated  beings. 
It  is  against  this  race  that  the  expedition  of  Rama,  celebrated 
in  the  Eamayana,  was  directed.  The  Arian  tradition  undoubtedly 
altered  the  attributes  of  these  tribes,  transforming  them  into  a  race  of 
giants,  deformed,  terrific,  truculent,  and  able  to  change  their  form  at 
will.  But  notwithstanding  these  exaggerations,  the  Ramayana  has 
(Gorresio  thinks)  preserved  here  and  there  certain  traits  and  pecu- 
liarities of  the  race  in  question  which  reveal  its  real  character.  It 
represents  these  people  as  black,  and  compares  them  sometimes  to  a 
black  cloud,  sometimes  to  black  collyrium ;  attributes  to  them  crisp 
and  woolly  hair,  and  thick  lips ;  and  describes  them  as  wearing  gold 
earrings,  necklaces,  turbans,  and  aU  those  brOliant  ornaments  in  which 
that  race  has  always  delighted.  These  people  are  also  represented  as 
hostile  to  the  religion  of  the  Aryas,  and  as  disturbers  of  their  sacrifices. 
The  god  whom  they  prefer  to  all  others,  and  specially  honour  by  sacri- 
fices, is  the  terrible  Eudra  or  S'iva,  whom  Gorresio  believes  to  be  of 
Hamitic  origin.'"  Their  emblems  and  devices  are  serpents  and  dragons, 
symbols  employed  also  by  the  Hamites."^  Signer  Gorresio  considers 
the  story  of  Rama's  expedition  against  the  Rakshasas  to  be  historical 
in  its  foundation,  though  exaggerated  by  mythical  embellishments ; 
and  he  observes  that  the  Arian  tradition  has  even  preserved  the  memory 
of  an  earlier  struggle  between  the  same  two  races,  as  some  Puranic 
legends  relate  that  Karttavirya,  of  the  Yadava  family,  a  contemporary 

'*'  In  a  note  (no.  35,  Vol.  x.,  p.  291),  to  Ram.,  vi.  54,  33  (where  the  disturbance 
of  Daksha's  sacrifice  by  S'iva  is  alluded  to),  Grorresio  writes :  "  The  fact  here  alluded 
to  is  mentioned  rather  than  described  in  the  First  Book,  68,  9,  ff.  ( =  Bombay  ed., 
66,  9,  ff.).  It  appears  to  me  that  this  fact  represents,  under  a  mythical  veil,  the 
struggle  of  the  ancient  forms  of  worship.  S'iva,  a  deity,  as  I  believe,  of  the  Cushite 
or  Hamite  tribes,  Which  preceded  the  Arian  or  Indo-Sanskrit  races,  wished  to 
participate  in  the  new  worship  and  sacrifices  of  the  conquerors,  from  which  he  was 
excluded ;  and  by  disturbing  their  rit^s,  and  committing  acts  of  violence  at  their  sacri- 
fices, succeeded  in  being  admitted  to  share  in  them."  In  regard  to  S'iva's  interference 
with  the  sacrifice  of  Daksha,  see  Wilson's  Vishnu  Purana,  vol.  i.,  pp.  120,  ff.  (Dr. 
Hall's  ed.),  and  the  fourth  volume  of  this  Work,  pp.  168,  203,  226,  241,  312-324. 

12*  As  Signor  Gorresio  has  not  supplied  any  references  to  the  passages  in  which 
these  various  characteristics  of  the  Eakshasas  are  described,  I  am  unable  to  verify 
his  details.    See,  however.  Earn.  v.  49,  1,  ff.  (=  Gorr.  46, 1,  ff.) 


WEBEE  ON  THE  PERSONAGES  OF  THE  EAMAYANA.  421 

of  Para^urama,  and  somewhat  anterior  to  the  hero  of  the  Eamayana, 
invaded  Lanka  (Ceylon),  and  made  Kavana  prisoner  (Wilson,  Vishgu 
Parana,  Ist  ed.,  pp.  402,  417;  Dr.  Hall's  ed.  iv.  22,  f.,  65,  f.;  and 
the  first  volume  of  this  work,  p.  478)."° 

In  regard  to  Signer  Gorresio's  views  as  ahove  expounded,  I  will 
only  observe  here,  that  the  aborigines  of  southern  India  are  not 
generaUy  regarded  as  of  Hamitje  caigin ;  but,  as  we  shall  see  in  a 
subsequent  Section,  are  considered  by  other  philologists  to  be  of 
Turanian  extraction. 

Professorweher  is  of  opinion  (Hist,  of  Ind.  Lit.  p.  181),  that  the 
principal  characters  who  figure  in  the  Ramayana,  are  not  historical 
personages  at  all,  but  mere  personifications  of  certain  events  and  cir- 
cumstances. Sita  (the  furrow),  he  remarks,  occurs  both  in  the  Rig- 
veda,'™  and  in  the  Grihya  ritual,  as  an  object  of  worship,  and  repre- 
sents the  Arian  agriculture  ;  while  he  regards  Eama  as  the  ploughman 
personified.  The  Ramayana  has  only,  he  thinks,  an  historical  character 
in  so  far  as  it  refers  to  an  actual  occurrence,  the  difiiision  of  Arian 
civilization  towards  the  south  of  the  peninsula. "'^ 

'^'  The  story  is  thus  told  in  the  Yishnu  Purana,  iv.  11,  4:  Mahishmatyam 
digvijayahhyagato  Jfarmai^-jalmagrahana-hrTda-mpanamadakulena  ayatnenaiva  tena 
aiesha-deva-daitya-gandharvesa-jayodb.huta-madmahpo  'pi  Savanah  pasur  wa 
haddhah  mor^agaraihante  athapitah  \  "When,  in  the  oonrse  of  his  campaign  of 
conquest,  EaTana  came  to  Mahishmati  (the  capital  of  Karttavirya),  there  he  who 
had  become  filled  with  pride  from  his  victories  over  all  the  devas,  daityas,  and  the 
chief  of  the  Gandharvas,  was  captured  without  difBculty  by  Karttavirya  (who  was 
excited  by  bathing  and  sporting  in  the  Narmada,  and  by  drinking  wine),  and  was 
confined  like  a  wild  beast  in  a  comer  of  his  city."  Prof.  Wilson  (p.  417,  note)  states 
that,  according  to  the  Vayu  Pur.,  Karttavirya  invaded  Lanka,  and  there  took  Eavana 
prisoner;  but  that  the  circumstances  are  more  generally  related  as  in  the  Vishnu 
Purana. 

13°  Eigveda,  iv.  57,  6,  f.  (=A.V.  iii.  17,  8) :  Arvachl  subhage  hhmia  site  vandamahe 
tva  I  Tatha  nah  aaihaga' sasi  yatha  nah  suphala  'sasi  \  17  |  (=A.V.,  iii.  17,  i)lniiral^ 
sitam  ni  grihnatu  tarn  Pusha  anu  yaehhatu  \  (A.V.,  ahhi  ralcshatu)  \  85.  nah  payas- 
vatt  duham  uttaram  uttaram.  samam  \  "  Propitious  Furrow,  approach ;  Furrow,  we 
worship  thee,  that  thou  mayest  be  propitious  to  us,  and  prolific  to  us.  7-  May  Indra 
plough  the  Furrow,  may  Pushan  direct  her :  may  she,  full  of  moisture,  milk  forth 
(food)  for  us  in  each  successive  year."  See  Wilson's  translation  and  note,  and 
Vaj.  Sanhita,  12,  70. 

"1  See  also  the  Indisohe  Studien  of  the  same  author,  vol.  i.  pp.  175,  277  ;  vol.  ii. 
pp.  292,  410 ;  his  dissertation  on  the  Eamatapaniya-upanishad  (Berlin,  1864), 
p.  275  ;  and  his  Essay  on  the  Eamayana  (Berlin,  1870),  p.  7,  ff.  It  would  lead  me  too 
far  to  give  any  summary  of  the  varied  contents  of  this  learned  treatise.  The  reader 
can  also  consult  thei  views  of  Mr.  Talboys  Wheeler  in  his  History  of  India,  vol.  2, 
The  Eamayana  and  the  Brahmanic  period,  pp.  37,  f. ;  316-318. 


422        INDIAN  TRADITIONS  REGARDING  THE  DEKHAIT  TRIBES. 

Sect.  V. — Indian  traditions  rega/rding  the  tribes  in  the  south  of  the 
peninsula. 

Having  furnislied  some  account  of  the  advance  of  the  Aryas  into 
southern  India,  and  of  the  races  whom  they  there  encountered  (if  there 
is  any  historical  hasis  for  the  fabulous  narrative  of  the  Eamayana),  I 
have  now  to  inquire  whether  the  other  Hindu  traditions  offer  us  any 
probable  explanation  of  the  origin  and  affinities  of  the  tribes  who 
occupied  the  Dekhan  before  its  colonization  by  the  Brahmans. 

Among  the  Dasyu  tribes  which,  according  to  the  Aitareya-brahmana, 
vii.  18,"*  were  descended  from  the  Eishi  Vi^vamitra,  are  mentioned 
the  Andhras.  And  Manu,  x.  43,  44,"'  specifies  the  Dravidas  among 
the  tribes  which  had  once  been  Kshatriyas,  but  had  sunk  into  the 
condition  of  Vrishalas  (or  S'udras),  from  the  extinction  of  sacred  rites, 
and  the  absence  of  Brahmans.  In  like  manner  the  Cholas  and  Eeralas 
are  stated  in  the  Harivan^a  to  have  once  been  Eshatriyas,  but  to  have 
been  deprived  of  their  social  and  religious  position  by  King  Sagara."* 
In  the  same  way  it  appears  that  several  of  the  Puranas,  the  Vayu, 
Matsya,  Agni,  and  Brahma,  claim  an  Arian  descent  for  the  southern 
races,  by  making  their  progenitors,  or  eponyms,  Pandya,  Karnata, 
Chola,  and  Kerala,  to  be  descendants  of  Dushyanta,  the  adopted  son  of 
Turvasu,  a  prince  of  the  lunar  line  of  the  Kshatriyag.  (See  Wilson's 
Yishnu  Purana,  Dr.  Hall's  ed.  vol.  iv.  p.  117,  note  1).^'°  Turvasu, 
the  Puranas  say,  was  appointed  by  his  father  to  rule  over  the  south- 
east. Thus  the  Harivansa  relates :  "  Yayati,  son  of  Nahusha,  having 
conquered  the  earth  with  its  seven  continents  and  oceans,  divided  it 
into  five  portions  for  his  sons.  This  wise  monarch  placed  Turvasu 
over  the  south-east  region."  "° 

According  to  the  legend,  Turvasu,  in  common  with  most  other  of 

133  Quoted  in  the  first  Tolume  of  this  work,  pp.  336,  358  ;  and  aboTe,  p.  364. 

133  Already  quoted  in  the  first  volume,  pp.  481,  f.,  together  with  other  parallel 
texts  from  the  Mahahh.  '3*  See  the  first  volume,  p.  488. 

135  The  Harivans'a,  sect.  32,  verse  1836,  substitutes  Kola  for  Karnata:  Kurutha- 
mad  ath^  Akr^daa  ehatvaras  tasya  chK^  atmajah  |  Fandyascha  Keralaschaiva  Kolas 
Cholasoha  parthivah  \  Tesham  janapadah  spKitah  Fandyaa  Gholah  mkeralah\ 
"  From  Kui-uthama  sprang  Akrida,  who  had  four  sons,  Pandya,  Kerala,  Kola,  and 
Chola,  who  were  the  kings  of  the  rich  countries  of  Pandya,  Chola,  and  Kerala." 

138  Ibid.,  sect.  30,  verses  1616,  ff. :  Saptadvlpam  Yayatis  tu  jitva  prithvim  sa- 
saga/ram  \  vyabhajat  panchadha  rajan  puiranam  Nahushas  tada  |  Disi  daksMna- 
purvmyam  Twrvasam  matiman  prabhuh  |   .  .  .  .  nyayojayat  |  | 


LANGUAGES  OF  THE  SOUTH  OF  INDIA.  423 

Tayati's  sons,  had  declined  to  accede  to  his  father's  request  that  he 
should  exchange  his  condition  of  youthful  vigour  for  his  father's 
decrepitude,  and  was,  in  consequence,  cursed  by  the  old  man.  The 
Mahabh.  i.  3478,  £f.,  gives  the  following  particulars  of  the  curse : 
"Since  thou,  though  born  from  within  me,  dost  not  give  me  up  thy 
youth,  therefore  thy  offspring  shall  be  out  off.  Thou,  fool,  shalt  be 
king  over  those  degraded  men  who  live  like  the  mixed  castes,  who 
marry  in  the  inverse  order  of  the  classes,  and  who  eat  flesh  ;  thou  shalt 
rule  over  those  wicked  Mlechhas  who  commit  adultery  with  their 
preceptors'  wives,  perpetrate  nameless  offences,  and  follow  the  practices 
of  brutes." ''' 

The  Andhras,  Dravidas,  Cholas,  and  Keralas,  who  have  been  men- 
tioned in  the  preceding  passages  as  degraded  Kshatriyas,  or  as 
descendants  of  the  adopted  son  of  Turvasu,  were  the  inhabitants  of 
Telingana,  of  the  central  and  southern  parts  of  the  Coromandel  coast 
(or  the  Tamil  country),  and  of  Malabar  respectively.  It  is  evident 
that  the  legendary  notices  which  I  have  just  quoted  do  not  throw  any 
light  on  their  origin.  That  these  tribes  could  not  have  been  of  Arian 
descent,  I  shall  proceed  to  show  in  the  next  Section  by  more  satisfactory 
evidence,  derived  from  the  language  of  their  modern  descendants. 

Sect.  VI. — Languages  of  the  south  of  India,  and  their  fundamental 
difference  from  Sanskrit. 

As  I  have  already  intimated  in  the  earlier  parts  of  this  volume,  there 
appear  in  the  vernacular  dialects  of  northern  India  many  remains  of  pre- 
existing languages,  distinct  from  Sanskrit,  which  are  supposed  to  have 
been  spoken  by  non- Arian  tribes  settled  in  that  portion  of  the  penin- 
sula before  the  immigration  of  the  Aryas  ;  and  I  have  also  alluded  to 
the  existence  of  a  class  of  languages  in  the  south  of  India,  viz.,  the 
Telugu,  the  Tam.il,  the  Malayalim,  and  the  Canarese,  which  are  funda- 
mentally different  from  the   Sanskrit.^'*      I   shall  now  proceed  to 

1"  Yat  tvam  me  hridayaj  jato  vayah  svam  na  prayachhasi  |  tasmat  praja  sa- 
muehhedam  Turvaso  tava  yasyati  \  Sanklrnachara-dharmeshu  pratilomaehareshu 
cha  I  Fisitasishu  cK  antyeshu  mudha  raja  bhmishyasi  |  Gwru-dara-prasahteshu 
tiryag-yoni-gateahu  cha  \  Fasu-dharmishu  papeshu  Mlechheshu  tiiam  bhavishyasi 1 1 
In  Terse  3533  Turvasu  is  said  to  be  the  progenitor  of  the  Tavanas  {Turvasor 
Tavcmah  smrital^  |  )  '^8  ggg  above,  p.  49. 


424  DE.  CALDWELL  ON  THE  DRAVIDIAN  LANGUAGES. 

establish  in  detail  the  assertions  I  have  made  regarding  these  southern 
languages. 

"Various  savage  tribes  are  still  to  be  found  among  the  hilly  tracts  in 
central  India,  such  as  the  Gonds,  Kols,  etc.,  whose  language  is  quite 
distinct  from  any  of  the  ancient  or  modem  Prakfit  dialects  derived 
from  the  Sanskrit.  It  is  not,  however,  necessary  that  I  should  enter 
into  any  details  regarding  the  speech  of  these  wild  races.  It  will 
suffice  for  the  purposes  of  my  argument  if  I  show  that  the  same  re- 
mark applies  equally  to  the  far  more  numerous,  and  more  cultivated 
tribes  who  occupy  the  Dekhan ;  and  that  the  various  languages  which 
are  current  in  the  different  pro.vinces  of  the  south,  while  they  have  a 
close  affinity  to  each  other  and  a  common  origin,  are,  in  their  entire 
character,  essentially  distinct  from  Sanskrit  and  its  derivatives.  In 
regard  to  these  languages,  information  of  the  most  conclusive  character 
may  be  obtained  from  the  preface  to  Mr.  A.  D.  Campbell's  Telugu 
Grammar  (including  the  note  by  Mr.  EUis),  as  well  as  from  the  Eev. 
Dr.  Caldwell's  Comparative  Grammar  of  the  Dravidian  Languages. 
Prom  the  last-named  work  I  abstract  the  following  details: — "  There 
are  four  principal  languages  current  in  the  different  provinces  of 
southern  India,  Tamil,  Telugu,  Canarese,  and  Malayalim,  spoken  col- 
lectively by  upwards  of  thirty-one  milUons  of  people,  besides  five 
minor  dialects,  spoken  by  650,000  persons.  These  forms  of  speech 
are  not,  in  the  proper  sense  of  the  word,  dialects  of  one  language,  as  no 
one  of  them  is  so  nearly  related  to  any  of  the  others,  as  that  two 
persons  using  different  members  of  the  group,  the  one,  for  instance, 
Tamil,  and  the  other  Telugu,  would  be  mutually  intelligible.  Ths 
Tamil  and  the  Malayalim  have  the  most  affinity  to  each  other,  and  yet 
it  is  only  the  simplest  sentences  in  one  of  these  languages  that  would 
be  understood  by  a  person  who  spoke  only  the  other.  The  Tamil  and 
the  Telugu,  on  the  other  hand,  are  the  furthest  removed  from  each  other 
of  the  four  languages ;  and  though  the  great  majority  of  roots  in  both 
are  identical,  yet  they  are  so  disguised  by  inflection  and  dialectic 
changes,  that  persons  speaking  each  only  one  of  these  two  languages 
would  be  scarcely  at  all  understood  by  each  other.  The  various 
Dravidian  idioms  therefore,  though  sprung  from  a  common  stock,  must 
be  regarded  as  distinct  languages. 

"The  northern  Pandits  classify  the  vernacular  dialects  of  India'" 
139  gee  Colebrooke's  Misc.  Essays,  vol.  ii.,  pp.  21,  ff. 


MR.  ELLIS  ON  THE  TAMIL  AND  TELUGIT.  425 

in  two  sets  of  five,  the  five  Gauras  and  the  five  Dravidas.  In  the 
latter,  they  include  the  Mahratha  and  Gurjara,  as  well  as  the  Telinga, 
the  Earnataka,  and  the  Dravida  or  Tamil.  The  first  two  languages 
are,  however,  erroneously  coupled  with  the  last  three ;  as,  though  the 
Mahratha  and  Gurjara  (Guzeratee)  possess  certain  features  of  resem- 
blance to  the  languages  of  the  south,  they  yet  diflfer  from  the  latter  so 
widely  and  radically  and  are  so  closely  allied  with  the  northern  group, 
Hindi,  Bengali,  etc.,  that  they  must  be  placed  in  the  same  class  with 
the  latter.  The  Dravida  proper  or  Tamil,  the  Telinga  or  Telugu,  and 
the  Karnataka,  or  Canarese,  are  not,  as  the  northern  Pandits  suppose, 
derived  from  the  Sanskrit,  like  the  northern  dialects,  but,  as  regards 
their  original  and  fundamental  portion,  are  quite  independent  of 
Sanskrit.  The  difference  between  the  northern  and  southern  dialects 
consists  in  this,  that  though  the  former  contain  a  small  proportion  of 
aboriginal  or  non-Sanskrit  words,  they  are  mainly  composed  of  words 
derived  by  corruption  from  the  Sanskrit,'*"  while  the  Tamil,  Telugu, 
and  other  southern  languages,  on  the  contrary,  though  they  contain  a 
certain  amount  of  Sanskrit  words,  are  yet,  both  as  regards  the  great 
bulk  of  their  vocabulary  and  their  whole  genius  and  spirit,  totally 
distinct  from  the  classical  speech  of  the  Arians.'' 

On  this  subject  I  shaU  introduce  here  some  quotations  from  a  note 
by  Mr.  F.  W.  Ellis,  appended  to  the  preface  to  Campbell's  Telugu 
Grammar:  "In  arrangement  the  two  latter  [the  Carnata  and  Telin- 
gana  alphabets],  which  are  nearly  the  same,  certainly  follow  the 
Nagari,  but  in  the  form  of  the  letters,  mode  of  combination,  and  other 
particulars,  there  is  no  resemblance  ;  and  the  Tamil  is  totally  different, 
rejecting  all  aspirates,  and  having  many  sounds  which  cannot  be  ex- 
pressed by  any  alphabet  in  which  the  Sanscrit  is   written 

Neither  the  Tamil,  Telugu,  nor  any  of  their  cognate  dialects,  are  deriva- 
tions from  the  Sanscrit ;  the  latter,  however  it  may  contribute  to  their 
polish,  is  not  necessary  for  their  existence ;  and  they  form  a  distinct 
family  of  languages,  with  which  the  Sanscrit  has,  in  latter  times 
especially,  intermixed,  but  with  which  it  has  no  radical  connexion." — 

(p.  2) "  The  Telugu,  to  which  attention  is  here  more  specially 

directed,  is  formed  from  its  own  roots,  which,  in  general,  have  no 
connexion  with  the  Sanscrit,  nor  with  those  of  any  other  language, 

"»  See  above,  p.  32,  f. 
VOL.  II.  28 


426 


TELU6U  BOOTS  COMPARED  WITH  SANSKRIT. 


the  cognate  dialects  of  Southern  India,  the  Tamil,  Cannadi,  etc.,  ex- 
cepted, with  which,  allowing  for  the  occasional  variation  of  con-similar 
sounds,  they  generally  agree ;  the  actual  difference  in  the  three  dialects 
here  mentioned  is  in  fact  to  be  found  only  in  the  affixes  used  in  the 
formation  of  words  from  the  roots ;  the  roots  themselves  are  not  similar 
merely,  but  the  same." — (p.  3.) 

"  To  show  that  no  radical  connexion  exists  between  the  Sanscrit  and 
Telugu,  ten  roots  in  alphabetic  order,  under  the  letters  A,  C,  P,  and 
V,  have  been  taken  from  the  common  Dhatumala,  or  list  of  roots,  and 
with  them  have  been  compared  the  Telugu  roots  under  the  same 
letters  taken  from  a  Telugu  Dhatumala.  .  .  .  These  will  be  found  in 
the  following  lists,  the  mere  inspection  of  which  will  show,  that 
among  the  forty  Telugu  roots  not  one  agrees  with  any  Sanskrit  root." 
These  lists  I  will  copy  here : — 


SAl^BKRIT. 

Ak,  to  mark,  move,  move  tortuously. 

Ag,  to  move,  move  tortuously. 

J       '  [to  mark. 
Anga,  j 

Agh,  to  move,  despise,  begin,  move 

quickly. 
Agha,  to  sin. 
Ach,  to  honour,  serve. 
Anch,  to  move,  speak  unintelligibly, 

speak  intelligibly. 
Aj,  to  throw,  move,  shine. 

Mh}^  move. 

Ad,  to  occupy,  undertake. 

Kak,  to  hint  desire,  go. 
Kakk,  laugh. 
Kakh,  laugh. 
Kakkh,  laugh. 
Kag,  to  move. 

Kaeh,  to  tie,  shine. 

Kaj,  to  hiccup. 

Xat,  to  move,  screen,  rain. 
S.athf  to  fear,  recollect  anxiously. 
Kad,  to  eat,  rejoice,  divide,  preserve. 

Tcush,  to  cook,  explain,  stretch. 

Tad,  to  shine,  move. 
Fath,  to  speak. 

Fm,  to  traffic,  praise. 


TELTJGtr. 

Akkalu,  to  contract  the  abdominal  mus- 
cles. 
Again,  to  separate,  break. 

Aggu,  to  worship. 

Aggalu,  to  be  insufferable,  excessive. 

Ats,  to  give  by  compulsion,  to  incur  debt. 
Antu,  to  touch,  adhere,  anoint  the  head. 
Adangu,  to  be  destroyed,  submit,  be  sub- 
dued. 
Adaru,  to  shine,  shoot  at. 

Adalu,  to  weep  bitterly. 

Adu,  to  slap. 

Kakku,  to  vomit. 

Kats,  to  play  dice,  chess. 

Krats,  to  want. 

Kattu,  to  tie,  buUd,  become  pregnant. 

Kadugu,  to  wash. 

Kaam^«,\^^  swell,  boil. 
Kanangu,)  ' 

5"^"*'*' 1  to  lick  as  a  dog. 
Kadagu,)  ° 

Kadaru,  to  call  aloud. 

Kadalu,  to  move  or  shake. 

Kadi,  to  approach,  obtain. 

Pangalu, )  ' 

Banehu,  to  divide,  send  away,  appoint. 

Fattu,  to  seize,  touch,  begin,  knead  the 

limbs,  understand,  imite  intimately. 
Fadu,  to  suffer,  fall. 


MAMIDI  VENCAYA  ON  THE  TELTJGtr  LANGUAGE. 


427 


SANSKRIT. 

Tat,  to  rule,  move. 
Part,  to  move. 
Fad,  to  move,  be  fixed. 
Fan,  to  praise. 

Fa/ml),  to  moTe. 

Farbb,  to  move. 

Vale,  to  be  cooked,  move. 

Vag,  to  be  lame. 

Vaoh,  to  speak,  order. 

Y<i}i  to  move,  renew,  or  repair. 

Yat,  to  surround,  share,  speak. 

Vata,  to  surround,  share. 

Yanta,  to  share. 

Yath,  to  go  alone,  be  able. 

Vad,  to  shine,  surround. 

Van,  to  sound. 


TELirou. 

Fimdu,  to  reprove,  produce,  lie  down. 

Fadayu,  to  obtain. 

Fcmtangu,  to  vow. 

Padaru,  to  act  precipitately,  speak  non- 
sense, threaten. 

Pannu,  to  join  steers  to  a  plough,  pre- 
pare. 

Panatm,  to  send,  employ. 

V(wu  r"  g'^^™!  pretend  grief,  consult. 

Vagir,  to  speak  deceitfully,  bark  as  a  dog. 

Vangu,  to  stoop. 

Vats,  to  come. 

Vantm,  to  bind,  pour  out  water. 

Vrats,  to  divide. 

Vatu,  to  become  lean. 

Vattu,  to  dry  up. 

Vattru,  to  shine. 

Fadd«,  to  serve  food. 


Mr.  Ellis  then  (p.  7)  adduces  a  list  of  fifteen  roots,  Telugu,  Canarese 
and  TamU,  taken  in  alphabetical  order,  "  to  show  that  an  intimate 
radical  connexion  exists  between  the  Telugu  and  other  dialects  of 
Southern  India."  As  I  believe  the  affinity  between  these  languages 
is  admitted  by  all  competent  scholars,  I  do  not  consider  it  necessary  to 
quote  this  comparative  list.  Mr.  ElHs  then  proceeds  (p.  11)  to  prove 
by  further  details  that  these  three  languages  are  not  only  radically 
connected,  but  have  also  an  intimate  relation  to  each  other  "  as  re- 
gards terms  used  for  the  expression  of  ideas."  With  this  view  he 
first  quotes  a  native  writer,  Mamidi  Vencaya  : 

"  Mamidi  Vencaya,  the  author  of  the  Andhra  Dipika,  an  excellent 
dictionary  of  the  Telugu,  has,  in  the  preface  to  this  work,  introduced 
a  concise  analysis  of  the  language,  the  substance  of  which  ....  is 
translated  in  the  following  paragraph. 

"  '  The  modes  of  derivation  in  the  Andhra  [Telugu]  language  are 
four;  they  are  Tatsamam,  Tadbhavam,  Desyam,  and  Gramyam. 
Tatsamam  consists  of  Sanscrit  terms,  pure  as  spoken  in  heaven,  the 
Telugu  terminations  being  substituted  for  those  of  the  original  lan- 
guage.' " 

Of  these  the  following  are  examples '"  : — 


SANSKRIT. 

TATSAMAM. 

SANSKRIT. 

TATSAMAM. 

Ramah 

Mamandu. 

Vac 

Vaccu. 

Vanam 

Vanamu. 

Dyaw 

Divamu, 

"'  [A  few  examples  only  are  selected  under  two  heads. — J.M.] 


428  QUOTATIONS  FROM  TELUGU  AUTHORS. 

"'Tadbhavam  consists  of  terms  formed,  either  from  tte  Sanscrit 
direct,  or  through  one  of  the  six  Praorits,  varied  by  the  interposition 
of  syllables,  and  by  ttie  substitution,  increment,  and  decrement  of 

letters The  several  modes  of  derivation  ....  are  exemplified 

in  the  following  lists :'  " — 

SANSKRIT.  TADBHAVAM.  SANSKRIT.  TADBHAVAM. 

Sarmidrah  Sandaramu.  Chandrah  Tsandu/rumdu. 

Separate  lists  follow  of  Tadbhava  terms  introduced  from  Sanskrit 
into  Telugu  through  the  Maharashtri,  the  S'auraseni,  the  Magadhi,  the 
Paisaohi  (said  to  be  spoken  in  the  countries  of  Pandya  and  Kekaya), 
the  Chulika-PaisachI  (spoken  in  Gandhara,  Nepala,  and  Kuntala),  and 
the  Apabhransa,  spoken  in  the  country  of  Abhira,  and  on  the  coast 
of  the  western  ocean. 

Mr.  Ellis  proceeds,  p.  16,  with  his  extracts  from  Mamidi  Vencaya : 
"  '  Deiyam,  in  other  words  Andhra  or  Telugu,  is  of  two  kinds ;  the 
language  which  originated  in  the  country  of  Telingana,  and  Anya- 
desyam,  or  the  language  of  foreign  countries  intermixed  with  it.' " 
Previously  to  showing  what  part  of  the  language  originated  in  Tri- 
lingam,  the  native  author  quotes  from  the  "  Adharavana  Vyacaranam" 
a-description  of  the  country  to  which  this  name  applies."^  Mr.  Ellis 
gives  the  author's  definition  of  the  native  Telugu,  as  the  language 
which  arose  within  the  boundaries  of  Trilinga,  as  follows:  "As  it  is 
here  said,  in  the  country  between  S'risailam,  the  station  of  Bhimeswara 
at  Dracharamam,  the  greater  Kaleswaram,  and,  as  the  fourth,  the 

1"  This  passage,  as  quoted  in  the  Andhrakaumudi,  is  given  by  Mr.  Campbell  in 
the  Introdnotion  to  his  Grammar,  p.  ii.  note.  I  am  indebted  to  the  late  Prof. 
H.  H.  Wilson,  for  transcribing  it  for  me  from  the  Telugu  into  Roman  characters : 
S'niaila-Bhlma-Kalesa-Mahendra-giri-sa/myutam  \  Prakaram  tu  mahat  kritva 
trJni  dvarani  cK  akarof  |  Triloehano  mahesasya  trisulamcha  kare  vahan  |  TriUnga- 
rupi  nymasat  tri-dvareshu  ganair  vritah  |  A.ndhra-  Vishnuh  sura-yuto  Damujena 
Ntshambhtma  |  Yuddhm  trayodasa  yugan  hatva  tarn  Rakshasottamam  |  Avasat  tatra 
rishibhir  yuto  Gfodmart-tate  \  Tatkala-praihriti  kshetram  Trilingam  iti  visrutam  | 
I  translate  this  anew  as  follows : — "  He  [the  Andhrian  Vishnu  before  mentioned], 
having  constructed  a  vast  wall  connecting  S'ri^aila,  Bhimes'vara,  Kale^vara,  and  the 
Mahendra  hills,  formed  in  it  three  gates.  There,  in  the  form  of  three  Lingas,  with 
three  eyes,  bearing  in  his  hand  the  trident  of  Mahes'a  (S'iva),  he  dwelt  in  the  three 
gates  surrounded  by  his  hosts.  The  Andhrian  Vishnu,  attended  by  the  Suras,  having 
slain  the  illustrious  Rakshasa  Nishambhu,  the  son  of  Danu,  after  a  conflict  lasting 
for  thirteen  yugas,  resided  there  with  the  rishis,  on  the  banks  of  the  Godavari. 
Since  that  time  this  sacred  territory  has  been  called  Trilinga." 


ORIGINAL  ELEMENTS  IN  THE  DRAYlDIAN  TONGUES.        429 

■mountain  of  Mahendra,  in  these  holy  places  were  three  lingams,  and 
the  language  which  originated  in  the  country  known  by  the  name  of 
the  Trilinga-de^amj  is  that  now  under  consideration ;  this  is  the  Atsu 
or  pure  Telugu,  and  is  thus  described  in  the  Appacavlyam  (verse) : 
'AU  those  words  which  are  in  use  among  the  several  races  who  are 
aborigines  of  the  country  of  Andhra,  which  are  perfectly  clear  and 
free  from  all  obscurity,  these  shine  forth  to  the  world  as  the  pure 
native  speech  of  Andhra  (S'uddha-Andhra-Desyam).'  "  The  following 
are  some  of  the  examples  given,  viz.,  palv,,  milk,  perugu,  curdled  milk, 
ney,  clarified  butter,  pudami,  the  earth,  padatuka,  a  woman,  kodukw,  a 
son,  tola,  the  head,  nela,  the  moon,  madi,  a  field,  puli,  a  tiger,  maga- 
vandu,  a  man.  Mamidi  Yencaya  then  proceeds  to  the  terms  introduced 
into  Telugu  from  foreign  countries.  "  The  following  verse  is  from  the 
Appacavlyam :  '  0  Kelava,  the  natives  of  Andhra,  having  resided  in 
various  countries,  by  using  Telugu  terms  conjointly  with  those  of  other 
countries,  these  have  become  Andhra  terms  of  foreign  origin.'  " 

This  is  what  Mamidi  Vencaya  has  to  say  about  the  Gramyam  terms : 
"Terms  which  cannot  be  subjected  to  the  rules  of  grammar,  and  in 
which  an  irregular  increment  or  decrement  of  letters  occurs,  are  called 
Gramyam ;  they  are  corruptions,  and  are  described  in  the  following 
verse  from  the  Appacaviyam.  (verse) :  '  Such  Telugu  words  as  are 
commonly  used  by  rustic  folk  are  known  as  Gramyam  terms :  these 
lose  some  of  their  regular  letters  and  are  not  found  in  poetry,  unless, 
as  in  abusive  language,  the  use  of  them  cannot  be  avoided.'  " 

"In  the  preceding  extracts"  (Mr.  Ellis  proceeds)  "the  author, 
supported  by  due  authority,  teaches  that,  rejecting  direct  and  indirect 
derivatives  from  the  Sanscrit,  and  words  borrowed  from  foreign  lan- 
guages, what  remains  is  the  pure  native  language  of  the  land :  this 
constitutes  the  great  body  of  the  tongue,  and  is  capable  of  expressing 
every  mental  and  bodily  operation,  every  possible  relation  and  existing 
thing;  for,  with  the  exception  of  some  religious  and  technical  terms, 
no  word  of  Sanscrit  derivation  is  necessary  to  the  Telugu.  This  pure 
native  language  of  the  land,  allSwing  for  dialectic  difierenees  and 
variations  of  termination,  is,  with  the  Telugu,  common  to  the  Tamil, 
Cannadi  (i.e.  Canarese),  and  the  other  dialects  of  southern  India: 
this  may  be  demonstrated  by  comparing  the  De^yam  terms  contained 
in  the  list  taken  by  Vencaya  from  the  Appacaviyam  with  the  terms 


430        ELEMENTS  COMPOSING  THE  DEAVIDIAN  TONGUES. 

expressive  of  the  same  ideas  in  Tamil  and  Cannadi.  It  lias  been 
already  shown  that  the  radicals  of  these  languages  mutatis  mutandis 
are  the  same,  and  this  comparison  will  show  that  the  native  terms  in 
general  use  in  each,  also,  correspond." 

A  comparative  list  of  Telugu,  Canarese,  and  Tamil  words  is  then 
annexed,  pp.  19-21,  which  I  omit.  Mr.  Ellis  then  goes  on  (p.  21): 
"From  the  preceding  extracts  and  remarks  on  the  composition  of  the 
Telugu  language,  as  respects  terms,  it  results  that  the  language  may 
be  divided  into  four  branches,  of  which  the  following  is  the  natural 
order.  Desyam,  or  Atsu-Telugu,  pure  native  terms,  constituting  the 
basis  of  this  language,  and,  generally  also,  of  the  other  dialects  of 
southern  India :  Anya-desyam,  terms  borrowed  from  other  countries, 
chiefly  of  the  same  derivation  as  the  preceding:  Tatsamam,  pure 
Sanscrit  terms,  the  Telugu  affixes  being  substituted  for  those  of  the 
original  language:  Tadbhavam,  Sanscrit  derivatives,  received  into  the 
Telugu  direct,  or  through  one  of  the  six  Pracrits,  and  in  all  instances 
more  or  less  corrupted.  The  Gramyara  (literally  the  rustic  dialect,  from 
Gramam,  Sans,  a  vUlage),  is  not  a  constituent  portion  of  the  language, 
hut  is  formed  from  the  Atsu-Telugu  by  contraction,  or  by  some  per- 
mutation of  the  letters  not  authorized  by  the  rules  of  grammar.  The 
proportion  of  Atsu-Telugu  terms  to  those  derived  from  every  other 
source  is  one  half;  of  Anya-desyam  terms  one  tenth;  of  Tatsamam 
terms  in  general  use  three  twentieths ;  and  of  Tadbhavam  terms  one 
quarter. 

"  With  little  variation,  the  composition  of  Tamil  and  Cannadi  is 
the  same  as  the  Telugu,  and  the  same  distinctions,  consequently,  are 
made  by  their  grammatical  writers.  The  Telugu  and  Cannadi  both 
admit  of  a  freer  adoption  of  Tatsamam  terms  than  the  Tamil :  in  the 
two  former,  in  fact,  the  discretion  of  the  writer  is  the  only  limit  of 
their  use ;  in  the  high  dialect  of  liie  latter  those  only  can  be  used 
which  have  been  admitted  into  the  dictionaries  by  which  the  language 
has  long  been  fixed,  or  for  which  classical  authority  can  be  adduced ; 
in  the  low  dialect  the  use  of  them  »is  more  general ;  by  the  Brahmans 
they  are  profusely  employed^  more  sparingly  by  the  S'udra  tribes.  The 
Cannadi  has  a  greater,  and  the  TamU  a  less,  proportion  of  Tadbhavam 
terms  than  the  other  dialects  ;  but  in  the  latter  all  Sanscrit  words  are 
liable  to  greater  variation  than  is  produced  by  the  mere  difference  of 


OPINION  OF  TELUGir  GRAMMARIANS.  431 

termination,  for,  as  the  alphabet  of  this  language  rejects  aU  aspirates, 
expresses  the  first  and  third  consonants  of  each  regular  series  by  the 
same  character,  and  admits  of  no  other  combination  of  consonants  than 
the  duplication  of  mutes  or  the  junction  of  a  naaal  and  a  mute,  it  is 
obviously  incapable  of  expressing  correctly  any  but  the  simplest  terms 
of  the  Sanscrit.  All  such,  however,  in  this  tongue  are  accounted 
Tatsamam  vh6n  the  alteration  is  regular  and  produced  only  by  the 
defi.ciencie8  of  the  alphabet. 

"But  though  the  derivation  and  general  terms  may  be  the  same 
in  cognate  dialects,  a  difference  of  idiom  may  exist  so  great  that  in  the 
acquisition  of  one  no  assistance  in  this  respect  can  be  derived  from  a, 
knowledge  of  the  other.  As  regards  the  dialects  of  southern  Indi^ 
this  is  by  no  means  the  case :  in  collocation  of  words,  in  syntactical 
government,  in  phrase,  and  indeed  in  all  that  is  comprehended  under 
the  term  idiom,  they  are  not  similar  only,  but  the  same.  To  demon- 
strate this,  and  to  show  how  far  they  agree  with,  or  differ  from,  the 
Sanscrit,"  Mr.  Ellis  proceeds  to  give  a  series  of  comparative  renderings 
of  sentences  in  Sanskrit,  and  in  the  Tamil,  Telugu,  and  Canarese,  As, 
however,  it  would  lengthen  this  Section  too  much  to  cite  these  details, 
I  must  refer  the  reader  Avho  is  desirous  of  pursuing  the  subject  further 
to  Mr.  Ellis's  "Note"  itself. 

From  Mr.  Campbell's  Introduction  to  his  Grammar,  pp.  vii,  viii,  ff., 
I  supply  some  further  particulars  regarding  the  early  cultivation  of 
Telugu  and  the  belief  of  the  native  grammarians  as  to  the  origin  of 
their  language: — "The  most  ancient  Teloogoo  grammarian  of  whom 
mention  is  made  in  the  native  books  is  the  sage  Kunva,  who  is  said  to 
have  been  the  first  that  composed  a  treatise  on  the  principles  of  the 
language.  It  is  stated^*'  that  he  executed  this  work  by  command  of  a 
king  of  Andhra,  named  Andhra  Eoyoodoo,'"  son  of  Sooohundra.  .  .  . 

i«3  11  Kmiva  said :  '  He  who  speaks  irreverently  of  my  grammar,  composed  by  the 
command  of  Andhra  Vishnoo,  shall  he  considered  as  guilty  of  irreverence  to  his 
priest.'  Andhra  Cowmudi."  The  original  is  as  follows ;  Kanvas  tu  yatha  aha 
Andhra-mshnor  anuJna-lcHtasya  mad-vyakaranasya  drohi  guru-drohJti. 

'**  In  regard  to  this  king  Mr.  Campbell  quotes  the  following  passage,  which  pre- 
cedes that  cited  in  my  former  note,  p.  428 :  Andhra-natho  Mahavishnur  Nishmnbhvr 
danujapahS,  \  Pura  Svayambhimo  Manoh  kale  Kaliyrtge  Marih  \  Kakule  raja-varyasya 
Suohandrasyd  tanubhmah  |  Abhavat  mrva-devaischa  vcahtito  lolea-pujitah  \  "  For- 
merly, in  thg  time  of  Manu  Svayambhu,  in  the  Kali  age,  Hari,  the  lord  of  Andhra, 


432  TELUGU  IN  OEIGIK  DISTINCT  FEOM  SANSKRIT. 

The  works  of  Kunva,  of  Audharvan  Achary,  and  of  several  other 
ancient  grammarians,  are  not  now  to  be  found.  All  the  treatises  on 
Teloogoo  grammar  at  present  extant  consist  of  Sanscrit  commentaries 
on  a  series  of  concise  apophthegms  written  in  Sanscrit  by  a  Bramin 
named  Nannapa,  or  Nunniah  Bhutt." 

"  It  has  been  very  generally  asserted  (says  Mr.  Campbell,  p.  xv,  ff.,) 
■and  indeed  believed,  that  the  Teloogoo  has  its  origin  in  the  language 
of  the  Vedams.  ...  I  venture  publicly  to  state  my  inquiries  to  have 
led  me  to  a  contrary  conclusion  ;  but  I  do  so  with  the  less  hesitation 
as  I  find  myself  supported  by  the  concurrent  evidence  of  all  native 
authors  who  have  ever  written  on  the  subject  of  the  Teloogoo 
language." 

"In  common  with  every  other  tongue  now  spoken  in  India,  modern 
Teloogoo  abounds  with  Sanscrit  words;  .  .  .  nevertheless  there  is 
reason  to  believe  that  the  origin  of  the  two  languages  is  altogether 
distinct."  "In  speaking  the  Teloogoo  the  Soodras  use  very  few 
Sanscrit  words :  among  the  superior  classes  of  Vysyas,  and  pretenders 
to  the  Eajah  caste,  Sanscrit  terms  are  used  only  in  proportion  to  their 
-greater  intimacy  with  the  Bramins,  and  their  books ;  and  when  we 
find  even  such  Sanscrit  words  as  these  classes  do  adopt,  pronounced  by 
them  in  so  improper  and  rude  a  manner  as  to  be  a  common  jest  to  the 
Bramins,  who,  at  the  same  time,  never  question  their  pronunciation 
of  pure  Teloogoo  words,  I  think  we  may  fairly  infer  it  to  be  probable 
at  least  that  these  Sanscrit  terms  were  originally  foreign  to  the 
language  spoken  by  the  great  body  of  the  people." 

"  Some  native  grammarians  maintain  that  before  the  king  Andhra 
Eoyadoo  "^  established  his  residence  on  the  banks  of  the  Godavery, 
the  only  Teloogoo  words  were  those  peculiar  to  what  is  emphatically 
termed  the  pure  Teloogoo,  now  generally  named  the  language  of  the 
land,  which  they  consider  coeval  with  the  people,  or,  as  they  express 
it,  '  created  by  the  god  Brimha.'  The  followers  of  tWs  prince,  say 
they,  for  the  first  time  began  to  adopt  Sanscrit  terms  with  Teloogoo 

the  great  Vishrm,  the  slayer  of  the  Danava  Nishambhu,  was  born  in  Eaknla  as  the 
son  of  the  monarch  Suchandra,  and  was  attended  by  all  the  gods,  as  well  as  reverenced 
by  all  mankind." 

145  "  This  is  the  prince  who  is  now  worshipped  as  a  divinity  at  SioeacoUnm  on  the 
river  Krishna,  and  who  was  the  patron  of  Kunva,  the  first  Teloogoo  grammarian." 


ORIGINAL  AND  ADOPTED  ELEMENTS  IN  TELUGU.  433 

terminations,  and  by  degrees  corruptions  from  the  Sanscrit  crept  into 
the  language,  from  the  ignorance  of  the  people  respecting  the  proper 
pronunciation  of  the  original  words. "°  This  would  imply  that  the 
nation  still  retain  some  faint  remembrance  of  those  times  in  which 
their  language  still  existed  independent  of  the  Sanscrit;  and  it  is 
certain  that  every  Teloogoo  grammarian,  from  the  days  of  Nunniah 
Bhutt  to  the  present  period,  considers  the  two  languages  as  derived 
from  sources  entirely  distinct ;  for  each  commences  his  work  by  class- 
^ing  the  words  of  the  language  under  four  separate  heads,  which  they 
distinguish  by  the  respective  names  of  Deshyumoo,  language  of  the 
land ;  Tutsumumoo,  Sanscrit  derivatives ;  Tudbhuvumoo,  Sanscrit 
corruptions  ;  and  Gramyumoo,  provincial  terms.  [Compare  the  Gram- 
mar, p.  37.]  To  these,  later  authors  have  added  Anya-deshyumoo, 
foreign  words." 

"  The  words  included  in  the  first  class,  which  I  have  denominated 
the  language  of  the  land,  are  .  .  .  the  most  numerous  in  the  language, 
and  the  model  by  which  those  included  in  the  other  classes  are  modi- 
fied and  altered  from  the  difierent  languages  to  which  they  originally 
belonged.  The  name  by  which  they  are  designated  implies  'that 
which  belongs  to  the  country  or  land;'  it  marks  the  words  in  question 
not  as  merely  '  current  in  the  country,'  but  as  the  growth  and  produce 
of  the  land." 

"  In  the  course  of  this  work  it  will  be  obvious  to  the  Sanscrit 
scholar  that  the  declension  of  the  noun  by  particles  or  words  added  to 
it, — the  use  of  a  plural  pronoun  applicable  to  the  first  and  second 
persons  conjointly — the  conjugation  of  the  affirmative  verb — the  ex- 
istence of  a  negative  aorist,  a  negative  imperative,  and  other  negative 

'*8  The  following  is  the  passage  referred  to,  and  it  follows  the  one  quoted  in  the 
note,  p.  428 :  Tatratyas  tatsamalapas  tatkSltnah  Surer  bhatah  |  Kalena  mahata 
sarvam  tatsamam  avalpa-huddhibhih  \  AsuMhochcharyamanam  sat  tadbhavancheti 
sammatam  \  Vilearsha-vyaiyayabhyaikcha  padardhokti  vUeshatah  \  Tadbhavam  iti 
hathycmte  kalena  mahata  samah  |  Brahmana  mrmitah  vachah  purvam  Andhresitur 
Sareh  |  Aehchah  iti  cha  kathyante  sup-krid-dhatu-samanvitah  |  "  The  adherents  of 
Hari  who  dwelt  there  (in  Trilinga,  on  the  banks  of  the  Godavari)  at  that  time, 
spoke  tatsama  words.  In  process  of  time  these  tatsama  words  began  to  be  in- 
correctly pronounced  by  simple  persons,  and  were  regarded  as  tadbhava.  Tatsama 
words  were  denominated  tadbhava  from  loss  or  substitution  [of  letters],  or  from  being 
contracted  a  fourth  or  a  half.  Words,  consisting  of  nouns,  verbals,  and  roots,  which 
were  fashioned  by  Brahma  before  the  time  of  Hari,  the  lord  of  Andhra,  are  called 
achcha  (pure)." 


434  PEIMITIVE  AND  ESSENTIAL  ELEMENTS  OP  THE 

forms  of  the  verb — the  union  of  the  neuter  and  feminine  genders  in 
the  singular,  and  of  the  masculine  and  feminine  genders  in  the  plural, 
of  the  pronouns  and  verbs — and  the  whole  body  of  the  syntax,  are 
entirely  unconnected  with  the  Sanscrit ;  while  the  Tamil  and  Kar- 
nataca  scholar  will  at  once  recognize  their  radical  connexion  with 
each  of  these  languages.  The  reader  will  find  all  words  denoting  the 
different  parts  of  the  human  frame,  the  various  sorts  of  food  or  uten- 
sils in  common  use  among  the  natives,  the  several  parts  of  their  dresg, 
the  compartments  of  their  dwellings,  the  degrees  of  af&nity  and  con- 
sanguinity peculiar  to  them,  in  short,  all  terms  expressive  of  primitive 
ideas  or  of  things  necessarily  named  in  the  earlier  stages  of  society,  to 
belong  to  the  pure  Teloogoo  or  language  of  the  land.  It  is  true  (so 
mixed  have  the  two  languages  now  become)  that  Sanscrit  derivatives 
or  corruptions  may,  without  impropriety,  be  occasionally  used  to  denote 
some  of  these.  This,  however,  is  not  common :  the  great  body  of 
Sanscrit  words  admitted  into  the  language  consists  of  abstract  terras, 
and  of  words  connected  with  science,  religion,  or  law,  as  is  the  case, 
in  a  great  degree,  with  the  Greek  and  Latin  words  incorporated  with 
our  own  tongue :  but  even  such  Sanscrit  words  as  are  thus  introduced 
into  Teloogoo  are  not  allowed  to  retain  their  original  forms ;  they 
undergo  changes  and  assume  terminations  and  inflections  unknown  to 
the  Sanscrit,  and,  except  as  foreign  quotations,  are  never  admitted  into 
Teloogoo  until  they  appear  in  the  dress  peculiar  to  the  language  of 
the  land." 

At  the  risk  of  some  repetition,  I  shall  add  a  few  further  observations, 
abstracted  from  Dr.  Caldwell's  grammar,  pp.  29,  ff.,  and  56,  in  proof 
of  the  radical  differences  between  the  Sanskrit  and  the  southern 
languages: — "'No  person,"  he  remarks,  "who is  acquainted  with  com- 
parative philology,  and  who  has  compared  the  primitive  and  essential 
words,  and  the  grammatical  structure  of  the  Dravidian  languages  with 
those  of  the  Sanskrit,  can  imagine  that  the  former  have  been  derived 
from  the  latter  by  any  known  process  of  corruption  or  decomposition. 
We  shall  first  advert  to  the  Sanskrit  element  which  has  been  intro- 
duced into  these  languages,  and  then  revert  to  their  non-Sanskrit  or 
essential  basis."  First,  the  most  recent  infusion  of  Sanskrit  words 
into  the  Tamil,  Dr.  Caldwell  states  (p.  56),  "was  effected  by  the  great 
religious  schools,  of  S'ankara  Acharyya  and  Eamanuja,  from  about  the 


DEAVIDIAN  TONGUES  NOT  DERIVED  FROM  SANSKRIT.         435 

tenth  to  the  fifteenth  century  a.d.  The  words  then  introduced  (ex- 
cepting a  few  points  wherein  change  was  unavoidable)  are  pure,  un- 
changed Sanskrit.  Secondly,  at  a  period  partly  preceding  and  partly 
contemporaneous  with  the  above,  from  the  eighth  to  the  twelfth  or 
thirteenth  century  a.d.,  the  Jainas  introduced  the  largest  proportion 
of  the  Sanskrit  derivatives  that  are  to  be  found  in  Tamil.  This  period 
of  Jaina  intellectual  predominance  was  the  Augustan  age  of  Tamil 
literature,  a  period  when  the  celebrated  college  of  Madura  flourished, 
and  the  Cural,  the  Chintamani,  and  the  classical  vocabularies  and 
grammars  were  written.  The  Tamilian  writers  of  this  period,  from 
national  feeling,  and  their  jealousy  of  Brahminical  influence,  modified 
the  Sanskrit  words  which  they  employed  so  as  to  accord  with  the 
euphonic  rules  of  Tamil.  Thus  loha,  '  world,'  becomes  ulagu^"  in  Tamil ; 
raja,  'king,'  becomes  arasu;  and  ra,  'night,'  (from  mfo-»)  becomes 
irawu.  Nearly  the  whole  of  the  Sanskrit  words  found  in  the  Telugu, 
Canarese,  and  Malayalim  belong  to  these  two  periods,  or  correspond 
mainly  with  the  Sanskrit  derivatives  found  in  the  Tamil  of  those  two 
periods,  especially  the  more  recent.  These  derivatives  are  divided  into 
the  two  classes  of  Tatsaiua,  words  identical  or  nearly  so  with  pure 
Sanskrit,  and  Tadbhava,  words  which  are  borrowed  from  Sanskrit  or 
the  northern  Prakrits,  but  have  been  to  some  degree  modified  iu  form. 
Thirdly,  the  Tamil  contains  many  derivatives,  belonging  to  the  very 
earliest  period  of  the  literary  cultivation  of  that  language,  which  were 
probably  introduced  before  Sanskrit  words  had  begun  to  be  imported  into 
the  other  southern  dialects.  The  Sanskrit  of  this  period  is  more  cor- 
rupted than  that  of  the  Jaina  period,  and  the  corruptions  are  of  a  dif- 
ferent character.  The  Jainas  altered  the  Sanskrit  words  in  accordance 
with  the  euphonic  rules  of  Tamil,  whereas  the  words  introduced  in 
the  earliest  period  have  been  changed  in  defiance  of  all  rules ;  as  the 
Sanskrit  irl,  'sacred,'  into  tiru.  While,  however,  a  certain  proportion 
of  Sanskrit  words  have  been  introduced  into  the  Dravidian  tongues  in 
the  ways  just  described, — it  would  be  quite  a  mistake  to  suppose  that 
these  languages  are  derived  from  the  Sanskrit  in  the  same  manner  as 

1*'  It  is  supposed  by  some  scholars,  from  the  fact  that,  in  most  passages  of  the 
Rigveda  where  the  word  "loka"  occurs,  it  is  preceded  by  "  u,"  that  the  original 
form  of  the  word  was  "  uloka,"  and  that  in  the  texts  ia  question  "  u  "  is  not  a  particle 
separate  from  the  word  before  which  it  stands.  See  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's  Lexicon, 
s.v.  "  loka." 


435  CLASSICAL  TAMIL  CONTAINS  LITTLE  SANSKRIT. 

the  Hindi,  Mahratti,  and  other  Grauda  dialects.  For  (1)  the  non- 
Sanskrit  portion  of  the  Dravidian  languages  exceeds  the  Sanskrit  por- 
tion nearly  as  much  as  in  the  North-Indian  dialects  the  Sanskrit 
element  exceeds  the  indigenous  or  non-Sanskrit  element.  (2)  The 
pronouns  and  numerals  of  the  Dravidian  languages,  their  mode  of 
inflecting  verbs  and  nouns,  the  syntactic  arrangement  of  their  words— 
everything,  in  fact,  which  constitutes  the  essential  structure  of  a 
language,  are  radically  different  from  those  of  the  Sanskrit.  The  con- 
trary is  the  case  with  the  vernacular  dialects  of  the  north,  in  which 
the  pronouns,  the  numerals,  and  a  large  proportion  of  nouns  and  verbs, 
have  been  derived  by  adoption  or  gradual  transformation  from  the 
older  Prakrits  and  ultimately  from  the  Sanskrit.  (3)  The  true  Dra- 
vidian words,  which  form  the  great  majority  in  the  southern  vocabu- 
laries, are  placed  by  the  native  grammarians  in  a  different  class  from 
the  Sanskrit  derivatives,  and  are  honoured  with  the  epithets  '  national 
words'  and  'pure  words.'  "  In  support  of  this  Dr.  Caldwell  refers  to 
the  passage  already  quoted  in  p.  433  ;  and  gives  it  as  his  opinion  that 
Andhraraya  probably  lived  several  centuries  before  the  Christian  era. 
"  (4)  In  the  uncultivated  languages  of  the  Dravidian  stock,  Sanskrit 
words  are  not  at  all,  or  very  rarely,  employed.  And  further,  some  of 
the  cultivated  Dravidian  languages  which  do  make  use  of  Sanskrit 
derivatives  are  able  to  dispense  with  these  altogether.  This  indeed  is 
hot  the  case  with  Telugu,  Canarese,  or  Malayalim ;  but  Tamil,  the  most 
highly  cultivated,  as  regards  its  original  structure,  of  all  the  Dravi- 
dian idioms,  is  not  dependent  on  Sanskrit  for  the  full  expression  of 
thought.  In  fact,  the  ancient  or  classical  dialect  of  this  language,  the 
Shen-Tamil,  in  which  nearly  all  the  literature  has  been  written,  con- 
tains very  little  Sanskrit ;  and  even  differs  chiefly  from  the  oolloqiiial 
dialect  by  the  jealous  care  with  which  it  rejects  derivatives  from 
Sanskrit  and  restricts  itself  to  pure  Dravidian  elements.  So  much  is 
this  the  case  that  a  Tamil  composition  is  regarded  as  refined  and 
classical,  not  in  proportion  to  the  amount  of  Sanskrit  it  contains,  but 
in  proportion  to  the  absence  of  Sanskrit.  It  is  also  worthy  of  remark 
that  though  the  principal  Telugu  writers  and  grammarians  have  been 
Brahmans,  in  Tamil,  on  the  contrary,  few  Brahmans  have  written  any 
■works  of  distinction,  while  the  Tamilian  Sudras  have  cultivated  and 
developed  their  language  with  great  ardour  and  success ;  and  the  finest 


SPECIMENS  OF  TAMIL  -WORDS  AND  DECLENSION. 


437 


compositions  in  the  Tamil  language,  the  CuraJ  and  the  Chintamani, 
are  not  only  independent  of  the  Sanskrit,  but  original  in  design  and 
execution." 

A  few  more  specimens  of  Tamil  words  derived  from  Dr.  Caldwell's 
book,  passim,  may  be  added  to  show  how  perfectly  distinct  they  are 
from  the  Sanskrit,  and  Iforth-Indian  vernacular,  words  having  the 
same  sense,  with  which  I  shall  presume  the  reader  to  be  acquainted. 


nan 

nam 

ni 

nir 

viral 

kadal 

manal 

kudal 

niral 

seval 

nilam 

madu 

adu 

kuranju 


kau 

mukku 

mel 


I 

we 

thou 

we 


the  sea 
sand 
a  howel 
shade 
a  cock 
the  ground 
an  ox 
a  sheep 
a  monkey 
a  day 
the  eye 
the  nose 
above 


NOUNS,  ETC. 


kir 

kai 

vin 

knrudu 

irumbu 

iruppu 

Buvar 

ugir 

tamir 

kinaru 

iral 

tigil 


iruj 

toppu 

magan 


ill  an 


below 
foot 
sky 

blindness 
iron 
of  iron 
a  wall 
finger-nail 
sweetness 
a  well 
the  liver 
a  fright 
the  moon 
darkness 
a  grove 
a  son 

a  daughter 
a  husband 


illal 

vannan 

vannatti 

oru 

irandu 

mundru 

nangu 

eindu 

aru 

eru 

ettu '*8 

onbadu 

pattu 

mupattu 

muru 

munnQru 

arubadu 

erubadu 


a  wife 

a  washerman 

a  washerwo- 

one        [man 

two 

three 

four 

five 

six 

seven 

eight 

nine 

ten 

thirty 

a  hundred 

three  hundred 

sixty 

seventy 


Tamil  declension  of  manei,  a  house. 


Singular, 
NoM.      manei 

Ace.  maneiyei 
Inst.      maneiyal 

CoNJ.  maneiyodu 

Dat.  maneikku 

Abl.  maneiyilirundu 

Gen.  maneiyin 

Loc.  maneiyidattil 

Voo.  maneiye 


Flural. 


maneigalei 
maneigalal 


irrukkiradu 
perugugirudu 


adakku 

agu 

akku 

ningu 

nikku 

nirambu 

nirappu 

valar 


maneigalukku 

maneigalirundu 

maneigalin 

maueigalidattil 

maneigale 


VERBS. 


it  is 

it  increases 

to  be  contained 

to  contain 

to  become 

to  make 

to  quit 

to  put  away 

to  be  full 

to  fill 

to  grow 


tulir 

pugar 

magir 

sural 

kuyil 

tuval 

urul 

kadukku 

tara 


to  sprout 
to  praise 
to  rejoice 
to  whirl 
to  sound 
to  bend 
to  roll 

to  suffer  pain 
to  give 
to  come 


"8  This  word,  it  must  be  allowed,  is  not  unlike  the  Hindi  ath,  eight. 


438       EE8U1TS  DEDUCIBLE  FROM  THE  PEECEDING  SECTIONS. 

"  (5)  The  gramtQatical  structure  of  the  Dravidian  languages  is 
radically  different  from  that  of  the  Sanskrit ;  and  proves  that  they 
are  quite  independent  of  that  language."  For  further  illustrations  of 
this  fact  I  must  refer  to  Dr.  Caldwell's  Grammar,  pp.  34,  ff.,  and  to^ 
the  subsequent  details  given  in  that  work,  passim. 

Sect.  VII. — Results  deduoible  from  the  preceding  Sections. 

In  the  last  section  I  have  supplied  abundant  evidence,  derived  from 
the  best  authorities,  of  the  radical  differences  which  exist  between  the 
languages  of  the  south  of  India  and  the  Sanskrit.  The  evidence 
which  I  have  adduced  is  not  (as  will  have  been  noticed)  confined  to 
the  fact  of  those  dissimilarities  of  roots  and  of  structure  which  aie 
sufficient  to  convince  the  comparative  philologist  that  the  Dravidian 
dialects  have  no  original  affinity  with  the  Indo-European  tongues.  We 
have  also  the  testimony  of  the  native  grammarians  of  the  south  to  the 
same  effect,  as  far  as  regards  the  Sanskrit  (as  we  have  seen,  pp.  428, 433). 
The  Telugu  authors  hold  that  the  words  of  which  their  language  is  com- 
posed are  of  four  classes,  Desya  or  Atsu  (or  aboriginal),  Tatsama  (pure 
Sanskrit),  Tadbhava  (modified  Sanskrit),  and  Gramya  (or  rustic) ;  and 
they  consider  that  the  first  class,  the  Desya  or  Atsu-Telugu  words,  con- 
stituted the  primeval  basis  of  the  language  before  the  introduction  of 
Tatsama  words  in  the  time  of  King  Andhraraya,"'  and  were  created,  with 
a  complete  grammatical  structure  of  their  own,  by  the  god  Brahma.  I 
am  not  in  a  position  to  cite  any  similar  testimony  on  the  part  of  the 
Tamil  grammarians ;  but  Mr.  Ellis  informs  us  (see  p.  430)  that  the 
same  distinctions  are  made  by  them  as  by  the  Telugu  writers,  and 
their  idea  of  the  relation  of  perfect  independence  in  which  their  lan- 
guage stands  to  the  Sanskrit  is  sufficiently  shown  by  the  fact  that  they 
regarfl  that  Tamil  as  the  most  pure  and  classical  in  which  there  is  the 
smallest  admixture  of  Sanskrit.  It  is  therefore  a  fact,  established 
beyond  all  doubt,  that  the  Dravidian  or  South-Indian  languages  have, 
as  regards  their  original  and  fundamental  portion,  no  affinity  with  the 

"9  We  have  already  seen,  p.  436,  that  Dr.  Caldwell  considers  this  monarch  to 
have  flourished  several  centuries  B.C.  From  the  Vishuu  Pnrana,  iv.  24,  it  appears 
that  an  Andhra-bhritya  dynasty  of  kings  reigned  in  Magadha,  whose  accession 
"Wilson  (V.P.,  iv.  203,  Dr.  Hall's  ed.)  calculates  to  have  dated  from  18  years  b.c. 
See  also  Lassen,  Ind.  Ant.,  ii.  755,  934. 


DEAVIDIANS  PROBABLY  DISTINCT  IN  EACE  FROM  AEIANS.     439 

Indo-European  languages;  and  could  not,  by  any  modification  known  to 
comparative  philologists,  have  been  derived  from  any  member  of  that 
family.  There  are  certain  processes  and  modes  of  mutation  which  are 
always  discoverable  when  one  language  springs  out  of  another.  The 
words  of  the  derivative  tongue  are  always,  or  almost  always,  recog- 
nizable (even  if  considerably  modified),  in  the  new  forms  which  they 
have  assumed ;  and  the  steps  of  their  transformation  can  be  either 
exactly  traced,  or  at  least  divined  with  certainty.  But  the  primitive 
words  and  forms  of  the  South-Indian  dialects  could  not  have  issued 
from  the  Sanskrit  by  any  known  law  of  modification. 

But  if  the  Dravidian  languages  be  of  a  stock  altogether  distinct  from 
the  Sanskrit,  it  follows,  at  least,  as  a  prima  facie  inference  (see 
above,  p.  267),  that  the  races  which  originally  spoke  these  two  classes 
of  languages  must  also  have  been  distinct  from  one  another  in  their 
descent,  and  could  not  have  belonged  to  the  same  branch  of  the  human 
family.  Had  the  Dravidian  nations  been  of  Arian  lineage,  the  whole 
of  their  languages  must,  in  all  probability,  have  more  or  less  closely 
resembled  either  the  older  Prakrits  (described  in  the  early  part  of 
this  volume)  or  the  later  Hindi,  Mabiatti,  and  Bengali,  all  of  which 
have  evidently  arisen,  in  great  part,  from  the  decomposition  of  Sanskrit. 
But  such  (as  we  have  seen)  is  not  the  case  in  regard  to  those  southern 
dialects. 

And  as  the  Dravidians  now  make  use  of  languages  which  are 
radically  distinct  from  Sanskrit,  we  cannot  suppose  it  probable  that  the 
aboriginal  part  of  the  nation  ever,  at  any  former  time,  spoke  a  lan- 
guage which  had  any  affinity  to  Sanskrit.  Such  a  supposition  would 
be  at  variance  with  the  traditions  preserved  by  the  Telugu  grammarians. 
And  no  race  of  mankind  has  ever  been  known  which  (except  under  the 
pressure  of  external  influence)  has  lost,  or  abandoned,  the  language 
which  it  had  derived  from  its  forefathers,  and  of  itself  adopted  a  form 
of  speech  fundamentally  different.  But  as  we  have  no  proof  of  any 
such  external  influence  which  could  have  led  the  Dravidians  to  ex- 
change their  original  language  for  another,  we  must  conclude  that 
they  have  derived  their  existing  dialects  from  their  forefathers' 
arid  these  their  forefathers,  as  their  speech  was  distinct  from  that  of 
the  ancestors  of  the  Arians,  must,  as  we  have  every  reason  to  con- 
clude, have  been  distinct  in  lineage  also  from  the  latter.     But  if 


440         AUIAN  IMMIGRANTS  ADOPTED  DRAVIDIAN  LANGUAGES. 

the  original  Dravidian  Indians  of  the  south  of  India  are  of  a  dif- 
ferent race  from  the  Arian  Indians,  they  could  not,  as  Manu  and  the 
Mahabharata  assert  (see  above,  p.  422),  have  been  degraded  Kshatriyas. 
And  this  conclusion  is  not  in  the  slightest  degree  affected  by  the  fact 
that  a  considerable  portion  of  the  existing  Dravidian  communities,  though 
speaking  the  language  of  the  south,  belongs,  or  claims  to  belong,  to  the 
higher  Arian  castes.  For  if  the  southern  Brahmans,  and  some  of  the  other 
castes,  be  (as  in  all  probability  they  are)  of  Arian  descent,  more  or  less 
pure,  this  does  not  prove  that  the  same  is  the  case  in  regard  to  the  great 
mass  of  the  Dravidian  population ;  for  there  is  every  reason  to  believe 
that  those  southern  communities  existed  before  the  Arians  had  spread 
themselves  to  the   south  of  the  Vindhya  mountains,   and  that  the 
Brahmans  emigrated  at  a  comparatively  recent  period  from  northern 
to  southern  India.     On  their  arrival  in  the  south,  these  Brahmans  no 
doubt  spoke  Sanskrit,  or  rather  one  of  its  derivative  Prakrits.     But 
though,  from  their  superior  civilization  and  energy,  they  soon  succeeded 
in  placing  themselves  at  the  head  of  the  Dravidian  communities,  and 
in  introducing  among  them  the  Brahmanieal  religion  and  institutions, 
they  must  have  been  so  inferior  in  numbers  to  the  Dravidian  inhabi- 
tants as  to  render  it  impracticable  for  them  to  dislodge  the  primitive 
speech  of  the  country,  and  to  replace  it  by  their  own  language.     They 
would  therefore  be  compelled  to , acquire  the  Dravidian  dialect  of  the 
province  in   which   they  settled ;    and  in  a  generation  or  two,   the 
majority    of    them   would  lose   the    vernacular   use    of   the  Prakrit 
dialects  which  they  had  brought  with  them.     This,  however,  might 
not  prevent  their  retaining  in  use  a  good  many  words  of  Sanskrit 
origin.     And  as  many  of  these  Brahmans,  or  subsequent  immigrants 
from  Northern  India  by  whom  they  were  subsequently  reinforced, 
were,    no   doubt,    learned   men,    and   as   their   religious   books   were 
composed  in  Sanskrit,  they  would  necessarily  preserve  their  acquaint- 
ance with  that  sacred  tongue,  and  with  its  literature ;  and  would  no 
doubt  from  time  to  time  introduce  fresh  Sanskrit  words  into  the  local 
vernacular,'™  just  as  we  see  that  English  is  continually  enriched  by 

160  I  niay  take  this  opportunity  of  adverting  again  to  the  prohability  already 
alluded  to  above,  in  note  67,  p.  33,  that  Sanskrit  has  not  only  influenced  the  ab- 
original tongues  both  of  northern  and  southern  India,  but  has  also  received  some 
influence  from  one  or  from  both  of  them  in  return.  Mr.  E.  Norris  observes' (J ourn. 
Eoy.  As.  Soc,  vol.  xv.,  p.  19) :  "  I  will  here  express  my  conviction  that  the  sounds 


THE  NON-AEIAN  ORIGIN  OF  THE  DEKHAN  EACES.  441 

tte  addition  of  new  Greek  and  Latin  -words.  The  fact  that  many  of 
the  present  inhabitants  of  the  south  of  India  are  of  Arian  extraction 
affords,  therefore,  no  reason  for  doubting  that  the  primitive  language 
of  those  provinces  was  entirely  distinct  from  the  Sanskrit,  and  that  the 
population  by  whom  that  language  was  originally  employed  was  totally 
unconnected  with  the  Arian  race.  For  even  the  esistence  of  the  limited 
proportion  of  non-Sanskrit  words  which  we  can  discover  (see  above, 
p.  31,  f.)  in  the  Hindi,  Mahratti,  and  other  northern  dialects,  seems 
sufficient  to  prove  that  there  originally  existed  in  northern  India  one  or 
more  races  of  non-Arian  inhabitants  who  occupied  the  country  before 
the  immigration  into  Hindustan  of  the  Sanskrit-speaking  Aryas. 

It  now  remains  for  me  to  inquire  how  this  important  fact  that  the 
great  bulk  of  the  population  of  the  Dekhan  is  non-Arian  in  its  descent, 
affects  the  results  at  which  I  had  previously  arrived,  on  the  grounds 
set  forth  in  the  foregoing  pages,  in  regard  to  the  trans-Himalayan 
origin  of  the  Arians,  and  their  immigration  into  India  from  the 
north-west. 

In  the  preceding  chapter,  we  were  led  by  a  variety  of  considerations, 

called  cerebral  are  peculiar  to  the  Tfirtar  or  Finnisli  class  of  languages ;  that  the 
reaUy  Indian  [i.e.  the  aboriginal,  or  non-Arian — J.M.]  languages  are  all  of  Tartar 
origin,  or,  at  least,  that  their  phonetic  and  grammatical  affinities  are  Tartar ;  and 
that  the  writers  of  Sanskrit  adopted  the  sound  from  their  Indian  neighbours."  And 
Professor  Benfey  says  (Complete  Sanskrit  Grammar,  p.  20) :  "  The  mute  cerebrals 
have  probably  been  introduced  from  the  phonetic  system  of  the  Indian  aborigines 
into  Sanskrit,  in  which,  however,  they  have  become  firmly  established."  And  at 
p.  73  of  the  same  work  he  thus  writes ;  "  Sanskrit  is  a  language  of  great  antiquity 
and  of  wide  diffusion.  Long  after-  it  had  ceased  to  be  vernacularly  spoken,  it  con- 
tinued to  be  employed  as  the  organ  of  culture  and  religion,  and  in  this  capacity  it 
prevailed  over  extensive  regions  where  there  existed  alongside  of  it,  not  merely  a 
variety  of  dialects  which  had  been  developed  out  of  it,  but  also  several  popular 
dialects  which  were  originally  quite  distinct  from  it.  From  these  circamstances  it 
has  resulted,  not  only  that  forms  which  have  been  admitted  into  the  Prakrit  dialects 
have  been  afterwards  adopted  into  Sanskrit,  but  farther,  that  words  which  were 
originally  quite  foreign  to  the  Sanskrit  have  been  included  in  its  vocabulary.  To 
separate  these  foreign  words  will  only  become  possible  when  an  accurate  knowledge 
of  the  dialects  which  have  no  affinity  with  Sanskrit  shall  have  been  attained.  But 
it  is  almost  as  difficult  to  distinguish  those  irregular  forms  which  have  originated  in 
the  dialects  derived  from  Sanskrit  and  have  been  afterwards  received  into  Sanskrit, 
from  those  forms  which  have  arisen  in  Sanskrit  itself;  because,  on  the  one  hand, 
Sanskrit  literature  and  its  history  are  as  yet  but  little  known,  and  on  the  other  hand, 
those  phonetic  changes,  which  attained  their  full  power  in  the  Prakrits,  had  already 
begun  to  work  in  Sanskrit  itself.     See  also  above,  p.  141,  f. 

VOL.  II.  29 


442  THE  TEANS-iiiMALAYAJN  UKitriJN  UJ<-  TUia  uiiNLius. 

all  pointing  to  the  same  result,  to  conclude  that  the  Aryas  had  pene- 
trated into  India  from  the  north-west.  The  facts  which  have  been 
substantiated  in  the  foregoing  sections  of  the  present  chapter  are  in 
perfect  harmony  with  that  conclusion.  These  facts  are  (1)  that  the 
Aryas,  when  living  in  the  Panjab,  found  themselves  in  conflict  with  a 
class  of  enemies  whom,  in  contrast  to  the  men  of  their  own  race,  they 
called  Dasyus  :  (2)  that  the  Aryas,  after  occupying  the  north-west  of 
India,  from  the  Indus  to  the  SarasvatI,  began,  at  length,  to  move  for- 
ward to  the  east  and  to  the  south  :  (3)  that,  stiU  later,  they  crossed  the 
Vindhya  range,  and  commenced  to  colonize  the  Dekhan,  which  had  been 
previously  occupied  exclusively  by  savage  or  alien  tribes :  and  now  we 
learn  (4)  that  the  nations  who  at  the  present  day  inhabit  the  different 
provinces  of  the  Bekhan,  and  who  (with  the  exception  of  such  part 
of  the  population  as  is  descended  from  the  later  Arian  immigrants, 
or  has  received  an  infusion  of  Arian  blood)  are  the  direct  descen- 
dants  of  the  original  tribes,  —  speak  a  class  of  languages  which 
are  radically  distinct  from  the  Sanskrit.  It  may  be  expedient,  how- 
ever, to  show  somewhat  more  in  detail  the  manner  in  which  these 
circumstances  corroborate,  or  at  least  harmonize  with,  the  theory  that 
the  Arians  are  not  autochthonous,  but  .of  trans-Himalayan  origin,  and 
that  they  immigrated  into  Hindustan  from  the  north-west.  First, 
then,  the  fact  that  at  the  dawn  of  Indian  history,  the  earliest  Vedic 
period,  we  find  the  Arian  Indians  inhabiting  the  Panjab ;  then  ad- 
vancing gradually  eastward  along  the  southern  border  of  the  Himalaya 
from  the  Sarasvati  to  the  Sadanira,  and  spreading  simultaneously, 
no  doubt,  over  the  southern  parts  of  Doab,  and  in  Behar;  and  at 
length  crossing  the  Vindhya  mountains  into  the  Dekhan ; — affords  the 
strongest  presumption  that  they  penetrated  into  India  from  some 
quarter  closely  adjoining  the  north-western  corner  of  that  country, 
which  was  the  starting-point  of  their  onward  course  of  conquest  and 
colonization.  Secondly:  the  indubitable  fact  that  the  Arians  found, 
on  advancing  into  the  Dekhan,  a  people  speaking  a  language  radically 
different  from  their  own,  who  had  been  in  earlier  occupation  of  the 
country ;  and  the  almost  equally  certain  fact  that  they  had  previously 
encountered  similar  alien  tribes  in  the  Panjab  and  in  the  Doab,  add  to 
the  probability  of  the  conclusion  that  they  (the  Arians)  could  not  have 
belonged  to  the  race  by  whom  India  was  originally  peopled.    Tot,  we 


ORIGINAL  HOMES  OF  THE  ARIANS  AND  DRAYIDIANS.       443 

must  either  suppose  that  both  of  these  two  races,  the  Arian  and  the 
non-Arian,  grew  up  together  in  India,  where  we  find  them  in  contact 
from  the  earliest  period,  or  that  one  or  both  of  them  have  immigrated 
into  that  country  from  without.  But  it  seems  unlikely  that  two  races 
whose  languages  differ  so  essentially,  as  those  of  the  Ariana  and  non- 
Arians  do,  and  whose  religions  also  were,  no  doubt,  originally  diverse, 
should  have  sprung  up,  and  co-existed,  in  the  same  country,  and  under 
the  same  climatic  influences.  It  is  much  more  likely  that  one  or  both 
of  them  should  have  been  foreign.  The  fact  is  that  both  have  probably 
immigrated  into  India  from  the  north-west ;  ^^  but  the  evidence  in 
favour  of  this  supposition  is  far  stronger  in  the  case  of  the  Arian,  than 
in  that  of  the  non-Arian  tribes.  For,  besides  the  proofs  derived  from  the 
language  of  th«  Ariaus,  which  clearly  connects  them  with  the  nations  to 
the  west  of  the  Indus,  we  have  the  evidence  of  their  complexioUj  which 
in  the  present  day  is  fairer  than  that  of  the  aborigines,  and  in  earlier 
times  was  perhaps  still  more  clearly  distinguishable  from  the  dark 
colour  of  the  latter  (see  pp.  281,  f.,  310).  But  if  neither  of  these  two- 
races  was  indigenous  in  India,  and  if  they  did  not  at  first  occupy  any 
portion  of  that  country  contemporaneously  with  eaeh  other,  which  of 
them  is  most  likely  to  have  been  the  first  possessor?  We  must,  no  doubt, 
conclude  that  the  Dasyus  or  barbarous  races  and  the  Dravidians  were  the 
earliest  occupants.  For,  as  Lassen  observes  (see  p.  309)^  we  perceive 
evident  traces  of  the  Arians  having  severed  asunder  an  earlier  popula- 
tion, and  driven  one  portion  of  it  towards  the  northern  and  another 
towards  the  southern  hills  ;  and  the  inhabitants  of  the  Vindhya  range, 
and  of  the  Dekhan,  appear  always  as  the  weaker  and  retiring  party 
who  were  driven  back  by  the  Arians.  And  we  cannot  ascribe  to  the- 
non-Arian  tribes  the  power  of  forcing  themselves  forward  through  the- 
midst  of  an  earlier  Arian  population  to  the  seats  which  they  eventually 
occupied  in  the  centre  and  south  of  the  peninsula  :  for  the  Arians  wer& 
from  the  beginning  a  more  powerful  and  civilized  people  than  their 
adversaries,  and  from  a  very  early  period  have  held  them  in  subjection^ 
It  is  indeed  objected  by  Mr.  Curzon  (see  above,  p.  301),  that  these 
rude  so-caUed  aboriginal  tribes  may  have  been  descended  from  some 
of  the  barbaric  hordes  who  under  the  name  of  S'akas,  Hunas,  etc.,  are 

^5'  In  the  App.,  note  0,  I  shall  quote  the  views  of  the  Rev.  Dr.  Caldwell  and 
other  writers,  regarding  the  origin  and  relations  of  the  different  non-Arian  tribes. 


444  EESULTS  OF  THIS  VOLUME. 

mentioned  by  Sanskrit  writers  as  having  invaded  India,  and  some  of 
whom,  after  their  defeat,  may  have  taken  refuge  in  the  hills  and 
forests  of  Hindustan.  But  I  apprehend  that  this  explanation  will  not 
meet  the  faets  of  the  case.  We  can  have  no  assurance,  that  such 
legends  as  that  regarding  the  S'akas,  which  is  quoted  in  the  first  volume 
of  this  work  (pp.  486,  ff.),  even  if  they  have  any  historical  founda- 
tion, can  be  referred  to  any  very  remote  period.  For  the  time 
at  which  the  Indo-Scythians,  who  were  repelled  by  Yikramaditya, 
made  themselves  masters,  and  retained  possession,  of  the  western 
frontiers  of  India,  cannot  be  placed  much  earlier  than  the  commence- 
ment of  the  Christian  era.  (See  Lassen's  Ind.  Antiq.  vol.  ii.  365,  ff., 
398,  408,  409.)  But  the  traces  which  we  discover  in  Indian  litera- 
ture of  the  existence  of  the  Dasyus  are  (as  we  have  seen  from  the 
various  Vedic  texts  cited  above)  much  older  than  this  period. 

In  conclusion,  I  return  to  the  point  from  which  I  started  at  the 
commencement  of  this  volume;  and,  as  the  result  of  the  preceding 
investigations,  repeat  the  following  propositions :  Krst,  that  the 
Hindus  of  the  superior  castes  are  sprung  at  least  partially  from  the 
same  race  with  the  Indo-European  nations  of  the  west :  Secondly,  that 
as  the  parent  race  appears  to  have  had  its  origin  in  Central  Asia,  the 
ancestors  of  the  Indian  branch  of  it  could  not  have  been  indigenous 
in  Hindustan,  but  must  have  immigrated  into  that  country  from  the 
north-west. 


445 


APPENDIX. 


NOTE  A..— Page  187,  last  line. 

On  this  subject  Professor  H.  Earn  remarks  in  his  recent  diasertatioD, 
"Indische  theorieen  over  de  Standenverdeeling  "  (Indian  Theories  on 
the  Division  of  Classes)  :  "That  mention  is  sometimes  made  [in  the 
Zendarvesta]  of  three,  and  at  other  times  of  four  [classes],  proves  of 
itself  nothing  whatever.  The  case  may  once  have  stood  on  the  same 
footing  as  the  mention  sometimes  of  three,  sometimes  of  four,  Vedas. 
Here  also  some  have  thought  to  discover  a  contradiction,  and  have 
drawn  from  it  the  most  adventurous  conclusionsi  When  the  Hindus 
speak  of  the  three  Vedas,  they  mean  that  there  is  a  triple  Veda,  con- 
sisting (1)  of  tecited  verses  {rich),  (2)  of  verses  sung  {sdman)  and  (3) 
of  formulas  in  prose  {yajush),  all  the  three  words  being  comprehended 
under  the  name  of  "mantra."  Altogether  independent  of  the  three  sorts 
of  mantras  is  the  number  of  the  collections  of  them.  Though  there 
were  a  hundred  collections  of  mantras,  the  Veda  is,  and  remains, 
threefold.  It  happens  by  accident  that  the  Hindus  possess  four  such 
collections  (and  in  a  certain  sense,  five),  which  usually  bear  the  name 
of  the  Sanhitas  of  the  Eigveda,  Samaveda,  Tajurveda  (white  and 
black),  and  Atharvaveda.  This  does  not  interfere  with  the  fact  that 
the  Atharvaveda  is  almost  entirely  a  Eigveda,  though  the  larger  col- 
lection is  regarded  as  the  Eigveda  in  the  most  eminent  sense,  whilst 
the  Tajurveda  only  in  part  consists  of  yajush-verses.  It  does  not 
need  to  be  proved  that  we  must  know  the  principle  on  which  any 
distribution  proceeds  before  we  can  deduce  any  conclusion  from 
numbers."  p.  13,  f. 


446         PEOFESSOR  KEEN  ON  THE  AGE  OP  THE  ATHAEVAVEDA. 

NOTE  B.—Page  191,  line  22. 

In  his  dissertation  c[uoted  in  the  preceding  note,  pp.  3,  f.,  Professor 
Kern  says  of  the  Atharvaveda :  "  Sometimes  it  is  dificult  to  guess 
what  is  meant  by  older  and  younger.  Tor  example,  the  Atharvaveda 
is  said  to  be  younger  than  the  Eigveda :  that  has  become  a  sort  of 
article  of  faith,  -wTiich  some  one  uninitiated  believer  receives  on  the 
authority  of  critics ;  whilst  another,  again,  copies  with  confidence  what 
has  been  asserted  by  the  former.  Now  about  half  the  hymns  in  the 
Atharvaveda  are,  with  the  exception  of  an  occasional  .varietas  lectionis, 
the  same  as  in  the  Eigveda,  so  that  the  Atharvaveda  cannot  be  younger 
than  the  Eigveda.  And  it  could  only  be  asserted  that  the  remaining 
portion  of  the  A.Y.  is  of  later  date,  when  grounds  for  this  position, 
derived  from  language,  versification,  and  style,  etc,  had  been  adduced. 
But,  so  far  as  I  know,  no  one  has  ever  even  attempted  to  seek  for  such 
grounds.  I  wiU  show,  by  a  single  example,  that  even  in  the  remain- 
ing portion  of  the  A.T.  to  which  I  have  referred,  somewhat  may  very 
well  be  found  which,  without  the  least  doubt,  was  known  to  the  Indians 
in  the  oldest  Yedic  period,  and  even  still  earlier,  though  the  Eigveda 
makes  no  mention  of  it.  In  A.V.  v.  22,  5,  7,  14,  the  Bahlikas  (or 
Balhikas)  are  named.  As  Balkh  was  conterminous  with  the  most 
ancient  abodes  of  the  Arians  in  India,  the  Bahlikas  cannot  possibly 
have  been  unknown  to  the  oldest  Indians.  And  yet  we  find  in  the 
Eigveda  no  traces  of  these,  neighbours  with  whom  they  were  constantly 
coming  into  contact,  whilst  there  are  such  traces  in  the  Atharvaveda." 

I  am  unable  to  agree  with  Professor  Kern  when  he  alleges  that  no 
one  has  ever  attempted  to  seek  for  proofs  of  the  posteriority  of  the  A.V. 
to  the  E.  V.  jfrom  differences  in  language,  versification,  style,  etc,  between 
the  two,  although  such  proofs  have  not  always  been  stated,  in  detail. 
See  the  remarks  quoted  from  Professor  "Whitney  in  p.  190,  above.  In 
his  Dissertations  on  the  Literature  and  History  of  the  Veda,  p- 12,  Prof. 
Eoth  writes  as  follows:  "In  the  pieces  which  are  common  to  it  (the 
A.V.),  with  the  Eik,  it  allows  itself  a  great  many  transpositions  and 
alterations,  which  further  appear  to  be  in  most  cases  of  an  arbitrary 
character.  In  the  sections  which  are  peculiar  to  it,  the  language  ap- 
proaches to  the  flowing  mode  of  expression  belonging  to  a  later  period, 
though  it  has  the  grammatical  forms  of  the  older  hymns.    Between  it 


PROFESSOR  ROTH  ON  THE  SAME  QUESTION.  447 

and  the  Eik,  there  subsists,  further,  the  peculiar  relation  that  the  latter 
too,  towards  the  end  (in  the  last  anuvaka  of  the  tenth  mandala),  con- 
tains a  considerable  number  of  sections  which  bear  completely  the 
character  of  the  Atharva-hymns,  and  are  also  actually  reproduced  in 
the  latter.  In  addition  to  these  general  marks  of  a  later  origin  of  this 
Veda,  we  find  also  a  number  of  special  characters,  of  which  I  here 
adduce  one :  The  hymns  of  the  Eik  celebrate  in  various  ways  the 
deliverances  which  Indra,  the  Asvins,  and  other  gods  had  vouchsafed 
to  the  forefathers.  The  names  of  the  persons  so  rescued,  however, 
lie  beyond  the  times  of  the  authors  themselves,  and  a  Vedio  rishi  is 
seldom  found  to  be  mentioned.  But  in  the  fourth  book  of  the  Atharva 
there  occurs,  for  example,  a  hymn  in  •which  Mitra  and  Varuna  are 
invoked  so  to  protect  the  suppliant, — not  as  they  had  preserved,  for 
instance,  Dadhyaoh,  Rebha,  Pedu,  and  others,  but  Jamadagni,Vasishtha, 
Medhatithi,  Purumllha,  etc.,  all  these  being  names  of  men  whom  the 
tradition  makes  to  be  composers  of  hymns  in  the  Eigveda.  It  thus 
appears  to  admit  of  no  doubt  that  the  Atharva  has  not  only  been 
collected  later  than  the  Eik,  but  is  also  of  later  origin." 

In  his  Dissertation  on  the  A.V.'  pp.  22,  ff.,  the  same  author  writes : 
"  If  I  have  above  designated  the  A.V.  as  a  sort  of  supplement  to  the 
E.V.,  it  is  already  implied  that  I  regard  this  collection  as  later.  But 
it  would  be  a  useless  undertaking  to  try  to  determine  its  date  even  ap- 
proximately, as  our  information  regarding  the  dates  of  particular 
Indian  writings  is  far  too  uncertain.  For  the  rest,  this  Veda  must, 
•without  hesitation,  be  reckoned  as  part  of  the  old  literature.  I  shall 
be  able  in  another  place  to  collect,  in  the  form  of  a  survey,  the  manifold 
proofs  •which  may  be  drawn  from  the  contents  of  the  A.  V.,  to  establish 
the  assertions  that  the  greater  part  of  its  formulas  and  hymns  are 
later  than  the  hymns  of  the  E.V.,  and  that  this  collection  has  been 
made  subsequently  to  the  other.  Here  I  -will  confine  myself  to  the 
single,  but  quite  certain  proof,  that  derived  from  language. 

"With  a  view  to  the  preparation  of  the  Sanskrit  Lexicon,  the  words 
of  all  the  Vedic  Sanhitas  have  been  completely  collected  by  myself  and 
my  co-editor  of  the  A.V.,  Mr.  "W.  D.  Whitney.  I  can,  therefore, 
state,  -with  tolerable  exactness,  the  number  of  times  that  particular 
words  occur  in  these  different  Sanhitas.  Generally  regarded,  the 
'  Athandlung  iiber  den  Atharwaveda,  Tubingen,  1856. 


448  ROTH'S  GKOtTNDS  FOR  HOLDING  THE  ATHAVAVEDA 

language  of  the  A.Y.  shows  itself  to  he  the  same  which  is  peculiar  to 
the  other  Vedas,  and  thus  as  very  notably  distinguished  from  the 
BO-called  classical,  or  more  properly,  common,  Sanskrit.  The  A.V. 
also  has  very  many  peculiar  Vedic  forms,  i.e.  forms  which  belong  to 
the  old  speech ;  and  yet  when  an  opportunity  is  afforded  of  comparing 
parallel  passages  of  the  R.V.,  there  may  not  seldom  he  observed  (a) 
the  exchange  of  the  old  form  for  one  which  prevailed  at  a  later  period, 
e.g.  of  the  absolutive  tvi  or  tvdya  for  tvd,  which  alone  was  in  common 
use  at  a  later  period :  similarly,  (b)  a  treatment  of  the  hiatus  in  verse 
which  shows  how  gradually  the  ancient  usage  ceases  (see  the  Sanskrit 
Lexicon,  s.v.  wa).  But  the  tendency  towards  the  later  linguistic  usage 
is  most  of  all  visible  from  a  lexical  point  of  view"  {i.e.  that  which 
regards  not  the  forms  of  words,  but  the  words  themselves).  "  This  is 
shown  most  strikingly  in  the  use  of  many  particles:  just  as  Homer, 
who  is  so  rich  in  these  smaU  words,  is  in  this  respect  distinguished 
from  later  authors,  so  is  the  E.V.  distinguished  from  later  books,  and 
already  from  the  A.Y.  Thus,  in  those  pieces  which  are  peculiar  to  it, 
the  latter  has  the  particle  ittha  hut  once,  whilst  it  occurs  more  than 
sixty  times  in  the  E.V.  So,  too,  it  employs  the  particle  it  much  more 
rarely,  whilst  im,  which  is  found  about  two  hundred  times  in  the  E.V., 
is  not  used  in  it  at  all.  On  the  other  hand,  the  R.V.  does  not  at  all 
know  the  later  form  evam,  but  makes  use  of  the  older  eva,  whilst  the 
A.V.  has  evam  more  than  forty  times,  but  (and  here  there  may  be  a 
trace  of  a  revision  of  the  text)  only  from  the  eighth  book  onward. 

"  In  the  same  way,  certain  main  conceptions  of  the  older  language 
appear  but  seldom  in  the  A.V.  This  case,  it  is  true,  is  different  from 
that  of  those  particles.  These  small  words  may  occur  anywhere  in  a 
book,  whatever  its  contents  may  be,  provided  only  that  it  agrees  in 
point  of  form  with  another  book  which  is  compared  with  it,  which  is 
the  case  here.  Ifouns  and  verbs,  on  the  contrary,  cannot  occur  with 
equal  frequency  in  books  of  which  the  contents  are  different.  Tet 
even  here  a  comparison  between  the  E.V.  and  A.V.  may  be  instituted 
with  an  approach  to  correctness.  "Eita,"  the  fundamental  conceptioa 
in  the  religious  system  of  the  Vedas,  could  not  certainly  he  bo 
prominent  in  the  A.V.  as  in  the  E.V. ;  yet  it  must  surprise  us  that 
this  word,  with  its  compounds,  is  found  so  very  seldom  in  the  former, 
whilst  it  is  met  with  more  than  three  hundred  times  in  the  latter.     So 


TO  BE  LATER  THAN  THE  EIGVEDA.  449 

too  rihvan,  .whict  the  E. V.  has  twenty  times,  is  wanting  in  the  A.V. ; 
iiti,  which  is  found  in  above  a  hundred  places  in  the  former,  occurs 
in  only  six  or  seven  texts  of  the  latter.  Kdru,  which  the  E.V.  has 
forty-five  times,  is  met  with  only  once  in  the  A.V.  So,  too,  the  latter 
has  uJethya  only  once,  the  former  about  forty  times. 

"The  old  much-employed  word  ish  is  met  with  very  rarely  in 
the  A.Y.,  and  nearly  always  only  in  connexion  with  iirj;  udan 
but  once ;  the  adjective  rishva  is  used  forty-eight  times  in  the  R.V. 
and  only  once  in  the  A.V. ;  the  old  adverbial  form  wu^/&  is  unknown 
to  the  A.V.,  whilst  in  the  E.V.  we  find  it  perhaps  twenty  times.  The 
denominative  verb  wrushyati,  which  would  have  suited  perfectly  the 
class  of  conceptions  prevalent  in  the  A.V. ,  is  met  with  there  only  twice, 
whilst  the  E.V.  has  it  thirty-four  times.  The  ancient  verb  Ticm, 
which.was  afterwards  entirely  lost,  is  wanting  also  in  the  A.V.,  while 
we  encounter  it  nearly  forty  times  ia  the  E.V.  On  the  other  hand,  the 
A.V.  is  very  liberal  in  its  use  of  the  verb  Tcalp,  which  was  so  much 
applied  in  later  times,  whilst  the  E.V.  has  it  only  once  in  the  first 
niae,  i.e.,  the  ancient,  books  ;  although  in  the  tenth  book  it  certainly 
uses  it  fourteen  times.  The  word  inAriya,  which  occurs  indeed  very 
often  in  the  E.V.,  but  never  in  its  later  ordinary  signification,  of 
"  sense,"  has  the  latter  meaning  in  the  A.V. :  in  the  nineteenth  book 
it  is  used  for  the  five  senses. 

"These  examples  might  be  increased  at  pleasure.  I  have  chosen 
them  from  the  letters  already  worked  out  in  the  Lexicon,  in  order  that 
an  opportunity  may  be  afforded  of  examining  the  proofs  of  them ;  and 
they  will  abundantly  suffice  for  our  purpose.  It  will  be  observed  how 
the  vocabulary  of  the  A.V.  approaches  to  that  of  the  later  period  of 
language,  of  which,  so  far  as  we  yet  know,  the  Brahmanas,  the  second 
class  of  Vedio  books,  are  the  earliest  productions.  But  from  this  fact 
it  must  not  be  immediately  concluded  that  the  hymns  preserved  in 
the  A.V.  are  all  of  them  later  than  those  of  the  E.V.,  but  we  must,  at 
the  same  time,  keep  in  view  that  in  the  case  of  those  among  them 
which  perhaps  date  from  as  early  a  linguistic  period,  either  revision, 
or  daily  usage,  may  have  stripped  off  the  antiquated  words.  For, 
according  to  my  view,  it  is  not  to  be  denied  that  the  A.V.  contains 
many  pieces  which,  both  by  their  style  of  expression,  and  by  their 
ideas,  are  shown  to  be  contemporary  with  the  older  hymns  of  the  E.V." 


450         PROFESSOR  ATJPRECHT'S  GROUNDS  FOR  HOLDING  THE 

I  am  indebted  to  Professor  Auf  recht  for  the  following  further  detailed 
proofs  of  the  same  point.  In  the  parts  of  the  A.V.,  which  consist 
of  entire  hymns  common  to  it  and  the  K.V.,  there  are  found  not  only 
■whole  verses,  but  portions  of  verses  and  phrases,  which  have  been 
borrowed  from  the  E.V.,  and  adapted  to  certain  purposes  dififerent 
from  those  which  .they  served  in  the  original.  That  these  verses, 
portions  of  verses,  and  phrases,  have  been  taken  from  the  K.V.  by 
the  A. v.,  and  not  vice  verad,  from  the  latter  by  the  former,  is  shown 
by  the  context  in  each  case.  It  is  farther  to  be  remarked,  that  several 
verses  which  occur  not  in  the  text  of  the  E.V.,  but  only  in  the  Khilas 
or  supplementary  hymns  of  an  evidently  late  character  interpolated 
in  it,  are  found  in  the  A.V.  Compare  Prof.  Miiller's  Preface  to  hia 
Kigveda,  vol.  ii.,  p.  xxxiv.,  and  vol.  iv.,  preface,  pp.  13  and  19,  lines 
12,  ff.,  from  the  bottom.  The  Ratrisukta,  one  of  these  KhUas,  [printed 
in  the  4th  volume  of  this  work,  p.  424],  is  partly  found  in  the  A.V. 
This  does  not  preclude  the  possibility  that  a  few  hymns,  especially  the 
magical  ones  in  books  i.-ix.  of  the  A.V.,  but  no  others,  may  be  as 
old  as  certain  hymns  of  the  tenth  mandala  and  others  of  the  R.V., 
which  have  been  attached  to  the  end  of  other  mandalas,  such  as  i.  191, 
and  the  last  two  hymns  of  the  second  mandala ;  or  that  some  ideas 
of  the  A.V.  may  be  as  ancient  as  any  in  those  parts  of  the  E.V. 

The  Eigveda,  though  the  oldest  collection,  does  not  necessarily 
contain  everything  that  is  of  the  greatest  age  in  Indian  thought  or 
tradition.  We  know,  for  example,  that  certain  legends  bearing  the 
impress  of  the  highest  antiquity,  such  as  that  of  the  Deluge,  appeaj 
first  in  the  Brahmanas. 

Descending  to  particulars,  we  find  a  great  difference  between  the 
two  Sanhitas. 

i.  EeUgion. 

.  Do  the  religious  ideas  in  the  A.V.  stand  at  the  same  point  as  in  the 
E.V.  ?  or  is  there  a  progress  towards  a  systematization  of  religion ; 
Do  we  find  traces  of  a  development  of  polytheism,  or  of  an  advance 
towards  monotheism  ?    Surely  the  latter. 

1.  Vishnu.  The  A.V.  contains  no  hymn  addressed  to  this  god. 
He  is  mentioned  merely  as  one  of  the  oi  iroSXoi,  or  as  a  lokapdla 
(guardian  of  one  of  the  regions  of  the  world),  iii.  27,  5 ;  xii.  3,  59. 


ATHAEVAVEDA  TO  BE  LATER  THAN  THE  EIGVEDA.  451 

2.  Yaruna.  The  A.Y.  has  a  hymn  to  this  god,  iv.  16,  remarkable 
iu  some  respects  (which  -was  employed  as  an  oath  to  be  taken  by  a 
witness),*  but  every  line  of  it  aflfords  evidence  of.  being  copied  from 
the  E.V.  There  is  also  another  hymn,  no  doubt  based  upon  some 
old  tradition,  in  which  Varuna  is  represented  as  giving  a  cow  to 
Atharvan,  but  apparently  spun  out  with  the  view  of  intimating  to  the 
faithful  that  the  magician  (Atharva-priest)  should  be  rewarded  by  a 
donation  of  cows.  For  the  rest,  Yaruna  is  treated  very  much  as 
Yishnu. 

3.  Indra.  No  particular  hymn  is  addressed  to  him;  no  feats,  no 
enemies,  of  his  are  mentioned  beyond  such  as  are  found  in  the  Eigveda. 

4.  The  same  is  the  case  in  regard  to  Agni.  And,  further,  he  no 
longer  appears  as  the  ever  youthful  mediator  between  gods  and  men, 
but  his  fire  has  become  formally  divided  into  the  Dakshinagni,  the 
Purvagni,  the  Garhapatya,  etc. 

Prom  all  this  it  is  clear  that  the  A.Y.  has  no  fresh  hymns  contem- 
porary with  older  ones  of  the  E.Y.  or  exhibiting  distinct  and  original 
features  of  the  most  ancient  gods,  but  in  so  far  as  they  are  concerned, 
builds  upon  the  materials  supplied  by  the  E.Y.,  while  it  introduces 
new  and  more  modern  characteristics  leading  in  the  direction  of,  and 
ultimately  developed  into,  the  latter  mythology.  In  fact,  the  principal 
gods  of  the  E.Y.  have  sunk  down  to  the  same  level,  which  they 
occupy  in  the  later  epic  poems,  and  a  new  god,  Bhava-S'arva,  has 
arrived  at  supremacy. 

The  A.Y.  has,  however,  besides  the  last-named  Bhava  and  S'arva 
(xi.  2,  1,  and  elsewhere),  who  occur  nowhere  in  the  E.Y.,  its  peculiar 
gods,  not  such  as  the  bright  elementary  powers  of  the  E.Y.,  but  ser- 
pents,' sprung  from  fire,  from  plants,  from  the  waters,  from  lightning 
{telhyah  sarpehhyo  namasa  mdhema\  "  Let  us  with  reverence  worship 
these  serpents"),  x.  4,  23;  viii.  8,  15;  viii.  10,  29  (where  Takshaka 
is  mentioned),  etc. ;   and  it  has  hymns  to  Night,  xix.  47-50 ;  *  and 

'  In  the  actual  application,  in  particular  cases,  of  the  formula  in  verse  9,  tats  tva 
mnair  abhi  ahyamii  pas'air  asm  amushyaya/rui  ammhyah  putra,  "  with  all  these 
honds  I  bind  thee,  so  and  so,  son  of  such  and  such  a  man,  and  of  such  and  such  a 
woman,"  the  real  name  of  the  person  was  substituted  for  the  words  ammhyayana, 
and  a  definite  purpose  in  the  verse  is  thus  evident.  Comp.  A.V.  x.  5,  36,  44 ;  xvi.  7, 
8  ;  xvi.  8,  1. 

3  The  R.V.  has  sarpa,  "serpent,"  only  once,  x.  16,  6. 

*  It  is  true  that  we  have  the  same  in  R.V.  x.  127 ;  but  in  the  A.V.  the  adoration 
is  more  decided, 


452     AUPEECHT'S  PEOOPS  THAT  THE  ATHARVAVEDA 

pays  worship  to  cows,  xii.  4  and  5.  On  the  other  hand,  the  A.V. 
shows  a  progress  towards  monotheism  in  its  celebration  of  Brahman, 
Brahma  jyeshtham,  Skambha  (see  the  5th  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  378, 
ff.);  and  has  hymns  to  Eala  and  Kama,  divinities  unknown  to  theR.V. 
(See  vol.  v.,  pp.  402,  ff.) 

•    ii.  Poetry.,  Imagination. 

Of  poetical  sentiment,  or  imagination  (such,  for  example,  as  breathes 
in  the  beautiful  hymns  to  TJshas  in  the  E.V.),  the  A.V.  has  next  to 
nothing.  The  reader  feels  himself  in  a  dark  suffocating  atmosphere, 
surrounded  by  domineering  priests,  who  would  sternly  repress  any 
flights  of  levity. 

iii.  Ritual. 

The  development  in  this  department  becomes  clearer  and  clearer. 
Compare  terms  such  as  agnishtoma,  anwaka,  frayaja,  anuyaja,''  (i.  30, 
4),  mahandmm,  mahavrata,  rajasuya,  vajofeya,  agnihotra,  eJcardtra, 
d/viratra,  cJiaturatra,  paneharatra,  etc.  (x.  7,  6,  7,  9,  10,11):  see 
also  xix.  22  and  23.  In  xiii.  3,  6,  the  three  words  of  the  sacrifice 
{y<ynasya  trayo  ^Icsha/rah),  meaning,  it  is  to  be  supposed,  such  directions 
as  yahshat,  vashat,  svahd,  are  mentioned.  The  whole  20th  book  is  com- 
piled for  certain  definite  sacrificial  purposes,  which  are  very  minutely 
stated  in  the  A.V.  S.utras. 

iv.  Speculation, 

In  the  A.V.  we  encounter  the  terms  («)  ndma  and  rupa,  "  name," 
and  "form,"  which  occur  so  constantly  in  theBrahmanas  and  Vedantic 
literature;  (J)  pilumati  dyauh,  "  a  heaven  formed  of  atoms,"  (xviii.  2, 
48);  (c)  hhiti  and  ahhiti,  "  transitoriness,"  and  "eternity"  (xi.  7, 
26) ;  {d)  the  three  gunas,  x.  8,  43  (comp.  viii.  2,  1,  and  the  fifth 
volume  of  this  work,  pp.  309,  note  468,  and  377,  note  561) ;  («)  the 
conception  of  sleep  as  being  neither  life  nor  death,  vi.  46,  1,  which  is 
of  a  modern  character. 

V.  Language. 

A  few  points  of  difference  in  this  respect  between  the  E.V.  and  the 
A.V.  may  be  mentioned,  to  which  a  multitude  of  others  could  easily  be 
added.  The  root  kri  has  in  the  E.V.  only  the  form  krinoti,  and  kwru 
occurs  only  in  x.  145,  2.    The  A.V.  has  kfinoti,  but  karoti  quite  as 

*  These  two  terms  occur  also  in  B.V.  x,  61,  8,  f. 


IS  LATER  THAN  THE  EIGVEDA.  453 

often.  The  E.V.  uses  tlie  root  sas,  and  not  so  commonly  svap,  for  "to 
sleep."  The  A,V.  has  sas  only  once,  iv.  1,  6,  and  in  verses  that  are 
borrowed  from  the  K.V.  it  substitutes  svap,  e.g.  iv.  5,  5,  6.  The 
E..V.  has  only  the  form  dyut,  "to  shine;"  the  A.V.  has  this,  but 
also  jj/uf,  "to  shine,"  vii.  16,  1;  iv.  37,  10.  The  E.V.  has  never 
tada  for  "then,"  and  tadamm  only  in  x.  129,  1  (this  being  one  of 
the  points  insisted  upon  for  proving  the  comparatively  modem  origin 
of  the  hymn),  while  the  A.V.  has  both  forms.  The  use  of  tva  .  .  . 
tva,  "  the  one  .  .  .  the  other,"  is  common  in  R.V.,  whilst  the  A.V. 
has  the  phrase  only  once,  viii.  9,  9,  and  there  only  in  what  appears 
to  be  an  imitation  of  K.V.  x.  71,  7,  8.  Bivakara,  "the  sun,"  in 
A.V.  iv.  10,  5 ;  xiii.  2,  34,  is  a  word  which  has  quite  a  modern  sound. 
iVfls,  in  the  sense  of  "like,"  "as,"  disappears  in  the  A.V.  gradually,  as 
also  the  particle  it,  both  so  very  common  in  the  R.V.  Bris,  "to  see," 
of  which  in  the  E.V.  we  have  the  forms  driseyam,  darSam,  drisan, 
adriiran,  driiana,  never  appears  in  the  A.V.,  except,  as  in  later 
Sanskrit,  in  the  perf.,  etc. ;  for  jyog  eva  drikma  suryam,  in  i.  31,  4, 
is  an  imitation  of  E.V.   i.  24,  1,  2,  etc.,  etc. 

vi.  Miscellaneous  terms  indicating  a  more  modern  stage. 

Bvtpin,  "  a  leopard,"  occurs  in  iv.  8,  7;  vi.  38,  2;  xix.  49,  4.  (The 
animal  comes  from  the  dvipa,  "island,"  perhaps  Ceylon).  S'ydmam 
loMtam  ayas,  "real. (black)  iron  and  brass,"  xi.  3,  7.  Imdni  panohen- 
driydni  mana^shashthdni,  "these  five  senses  and  the  mind,  manas,  a 
sixth."  ITames  of  seasons :  grishma  (R.V.  only  in  the  Purusha-sukta). 
Miali,  one  of  the  dice,  vii.  109,  1.  Achdrya,  Irahmachdrin,^  xi.  5,  1. 
A  S'rotriya  (a  priest  who  has  studied  the  Veda)  can  alone  be  a  guest,  ix. 
6,  37.  Bhma,  which  in  the  R.V.,  especially  in  old  hymns,  has  the  sense 
of  "prize,"  appears  in  the  A.V.  chiefly  (only  rarely  meaning  "a  stake,") 
in  its  later  sense  of  property,  wealth,  money.  The  form  dharma  occurs 
in  the  A.V.  xi.  7,  17 ;  xii.  5,  7 ;  xviii.  3,  1.  In  R.V.  the  word  appears 
only  in  the  form  dharman.  Naga,  "mountain,"  is  found  in  xix.  8, 1 ;  it 
signifies  "  not  going,"  and  is  a  perfectly  modem  word,  as  modern  as  na- 
mwra,  xiii.  4,  46,  "  immortality,"  for  the  older  amrita.  Pundarikam 
namadndram,  i.e.  the  body  ."  with  the  nine  openings,"  x.  8,  43.  Ndra- 
Icam  lokam,  "hell,"  occurs,  xii.  4,  36,  whilst  there  is  nothing  of  the 
•  Brahmacharin  occutb  also  in  B.Y,  x.  109,  5. 


454  PEOrESSOE  KEEN'S  OPINION  ON 

kind  in  the  R.V.  Panch&ng'uri  (the  five-fingered)  "^man,"  is  modem. 
Pmrameshthin,  of  a  supreme  deity  (often  with  FrcgapaU,  iv.  11,  7; 
viii.  6, 10;  ix.  3,  11 ;  or  difierent  from  him,  viii.  7,  1),  very  frequently 
occurring,  is  not  found  a  single  time  in  the  R.V.  Pai,  "to  see,"  has, 
in  the  E.V.,  often  its  oldest  form  spas,  but  never  in  A.V.  except  in 
three  passages  that  are  taken  from  the  E.V.  Paswpati,  applied  to 
Bhava,  e.g.  xi.  2,  28 ;  xi.  6,  9 ;  xv.  5,  3,  never  occurs  in  the  E.V. 
Magadha,  "a  hard,"  xv.  2,  1-4,  as  in  later  times. 

In  conclusion,  it  may  be  mentioned  that  the  very  fact  that  the  A.V. 
mentions  countries  like  Magadha,  Anga,  Balhika,  v.  22,  is  a  proof  that 
it  was  composed  at  a  time  when  the  geographical  knowledge  of  the 
Hindus  had  become  enlarged.  Straho  knew  more  of  the  world  than 
Herodotus ;  therefore  he  was  later. 

On  this  subject,  a  learned  correspondent  writes:  "Ifo  one  will 
affirm  that  every  single  piece  in  the  A.V.  is  more  recent  than  every 
part  of  the  E.V.  But  every  one  must  see  that  the  great  bulk  of  the 
E.V.  is  of  a  much  older  character  than  the  bulk  of  the  A.V. ;  and 
that  the  collection  of  the  pieces  making  up  the  latter  is  later  than 
in  the  case  of  the  E.  V.  It  follows  from  this,  that  any  one  who  seeks 
to  represent  any  part  of  the  A.V.  as  older  than  any  part  of  the  E.V., 
must  prove  this  as  the  exception,  and  cannot  be  allowed  to  throw  on 
his  opponent  the  burden  of  establishing  the  contrary.  For  the  rest, 
it  will  not  aid  us  much  to  propound  such  general  rules.  In  every 
individual  given  case,  a  sufiicient  number  of  material  proofs  wiU  be 
found  to  relieve  us  from  such  general  discussions." 


Rema/rhs  on  Professor  Kernes  conclusion  regarding  the  antiquity  of  cmtes. 

The  present  volume  does  not  treat  of  caste ;  but  as  that  is  the  sub- 
ject of  my  first  volume,  it  appears  necessary  that  I  should  take  this 
opportunity  of  adverting  to  Professor  Eern's  opinions  on  the  antiquity 
of  that  institution,  as  set  forth  in  the  dissertation  above  quoted, 
which  was  read  before  the  Eoyal  Academy  of  Sciences  at  Amsterdam 
on  the  13th  of  March,  1871.  First  of  all  I  must  briefly  state  the 
author's  positions,  and  the  grounds  on  which  he  bases  them.  He 
refers,  first  (p.  6)  to  the  fact  that  the  four  castes  or  classes  (Standen) 
are  mentioned  in  the  Purusha-sukta,  which,  however,  some  scholars 


THE  ANTIQUITY  OF  CASTES.  456 

regard  as  one  of  the  most  recent  in  the  collection  of  the  Eigveda, 
■whilst  others  maintain  the  exact  contrary.  Neither  party,  he  con- 
siders, have  proved  their  assertions.  He  himself  regards  the  an- 
tiquity of  the  hymn  as  a  matter  of  indifference,  not  in  itself,  but 
in  its  bearing  upon  the  question  of  the  antiquity  of  classes.  After 
quoting  and  explaining  the  hymn,  he  proceeds  (p.  8) :  "  "We  may 
confidently  ask  -whether  the  expressions  it  contains  either  in  them- 
selves, or  in  connexion  -with  the  whole,  furnish  the  least  ground  even 
for  guessing  that  the  poet  intended  to  register,  or  to  recommend,  a  new 
institution  ?  In  truth,  if  anything  is  plain  in  the  whole  poem,  it  is 
this,  that  in  the  estimation  of  the  author,  the  division  into  classes 
was  as  old  as  the  sun  and  moon,  as  Indra  and  Agni,  as  the  horse  and 
the  cow,  in  short,  as  old  as  the  creation.  Before  such  a  symbolical 
theory  could  arise,  all  remembrance  of  the  historical  origin  of  classes 
must  have  been  lost.  How  is  this  affected  by  the  question  whether 
the  Purusha-sukta  is  the  latest,  or  the  earliest,  hymn  in  the  Uigveda?" 

He  adds  (p.  8) :  "  We  are  ignorant  how  long  a  period  intervened 
between  the  institution  of  classes  and  the  composition  of  the  hymn. 
As  little  is  it  shown  by  the  quotation  whether  aU.  the  legal  prescrip- 
tions regarding  the  classes  were  then  applied,  or  even  existed  theoreti- 
cally ;  and  we  are  also  left  in  uncertainty  whether,  besides  the  four 
principal  divisions,  the  intermediate  classes  also  were  recognized.  But 
we  must  of  necessity  conclude  that  classes  were  hereditary,  because 
the  once  effected  division  of  Purusha  is  represented  as  something  per- 
manent.'' Dr.  Kern  goes  on  to  remark  (p.  9)  that  we  must  not  expect 
to  derive  from  the  hymns  a  complete  picture  of  the  contemporaneous 
Indian  institutions ;  or  persuade  ourselves  that  our  conjectures  founded 
on  their  scanty  data  possess  the  certainty  of  established  facts.  He 
had  previously  said  in  p.  3,  that  the  argumentum  a  silentio  has  been 
sometimes  abused  in  treating  of  geographical  questions  affecting  the 
Vedic  Indians. 

Secondly,  Professor  Kern  inquires  (pp.  9,  ff.)  whether  we  find  in 
the  Zend  Avesta  any  reference  to  the  existence  of  the  same  classes  as 
we  meet  with  in  India,  as  he  considers  that  such  reference  would 
afford  probable  proof  of  the  existence  of  this  division  into  classes 
before  the  separation  of  the  Perso-Arians  and  the  Indo-Arians.  This 
question  he  answers  in  the  affirmative.     He  finds  that  in  Yaiaa  xix. 


456  FOUR  CLASSES  AMONG  THE  PERSO-ARIANS. 

46,  four  classes  are  mentioned  :  Athrava,  RathaesMao,  Yastriya-fshu- 
yafit,  and  Huiti  [-vrords  which,  are  rendered  in  Neriosengh's  Sanskrit 
translation  hy  acharya,  kshatriya,  kutumbin,  and  prakritikarman,  i.e. 
"religious  teacher,  kshatriya,  householder  (or  peasant),  and  work- 
man."] On  this  he  remarks,  p.  11,  "It  is  thus  established  that  ac- 
cording to  the  Zend  Avesta  the  first  class  (pishtra)  consists  of  teachers 
or  priests,  of  Brahmans,  the  second  of  Knights,  Kshatriyas,  exactly  as 
in  India.  Consequently  a  division  of  the  nobility  into  Brahmans  and 
Xshatriyas,  and  the  precedence  of  the  former  over  all  the  classes,  is 
not  the  work  of  the  Indian  Brahmans."  In  like  manner,  Professor 
Kern  considers  (p.  11)  that  the  third  class,  Vastriya  fshuyant,  cor- 
responds to  the  Indian  Yai^ya,  being  composed  of  the  same  elements ; 
and  that  both  designations  are  very  ancient;  and  further  (p.  12)  that 
the  fourth  class,  Huiti,  is  that  of  workmen,  servants,  and  petty  traders, 
and  answers  to  that  of  the  S'udras.  The  word  pishtra  (which  Professor 
Spiegel  renders  by  "trade")  Professor  Kern  regards  (p.  13)  as  pro- 
bably synonymous  with  varna,  the  Sanskrit  word  for  caste  ;  and  adds : 
"  If  we  observe  that  a  few  lines  above  the  passage  which  has  been 
cited,  it  is  said,  Talna  xix.  44  ;  '  This  word  [command]  which  Ahura 
Mazda  [the  creator]  has  spoken  embraces  four  classes  [pishtra],'  I 
think  we  may  assert  that  there  is  an  unmistakable  correspondence  in 
the  manner  in  which  the  sacred  books  of  the  Iranians  and  of  the  Indians 
speak  of  the  institution  of  classes,  although  here,  as  in  every  other 
case,  the  Hindu  expresses  himself  in  much  more  metaphorical  language 
than  his  kinsman  in  Iran." 

Prof.  Kern  then  proceeds  (p.  13)  to  combat  the  opinion  expressed 
in  a  note  on  the  passage  by  Prof.  Spiegel,  which  I  quote  at  length  : 
"  Four  trades  are  known  only  to  the  later  Iranian  State.  OWer  pieces 
of  the  Yasna  (comp.  xiv.  5,  &.),  as  of  the  Yendidad,  unequivocally 
recognize  only  three.  The  word  by  which  the  fourth  class  is  here 
designated  (Huiti)  is  an  entirely  peculiar  one,  and  does  not  occur  else- 
where. There  is  no  ground  for  assuming  that  the  remark  respecting 
the  fourth  class  is  here  interpolated ;  and  consequently  the  piece  before 
us  is  shown  to  be  a  tolerably  late  one."  Professor  Kern  demurs  to  this 
assertion  without  proof.  He  adds  that  j^othing  is  proved  by  the  cir- 
cumstance that  in  some  places  four,  in  others  only  three  classes  are 
mentioned ;  as  (p.  14)  the  three  classes  referred  to  in  Yasna  xiv.  9, 


PEOP.  KERN  ON  THE  ANTIQTTITT  OP  HEEEDITART  CLASSES.     457 

teachers,  knights,  aad  peasants,  are  spoken  of  as  "  the  greatest  powers 
of  the  Mazdayasnian  faith ;"  and  that  even  in  India,  when  reference  is 
made  to  fellowship  in  religious  worship,  the  three  superior  classes  alone 
are  mentioned.  The  same  may  have  been  the  case  in  Bactria.  Prof. 
Kern  also  remarks  that  four  classes  are  referred  to  in  Vendidad  xiii. 
125,  the  fourth  being  denoted  by  the  word  "  vae^u,"  rendered  by 
Professor  Spiegel,  "vUlager,"  On  the  preceding  grounds  Professor 
Kern  maintains  that  the  fourfold  division  of  classes  is  older  than  the 
most  ancient  Indian  documents. 

In  a  communication  with  which  he  has-^fevonred  me,  Prof.  Kern 
maintains  that  among  all  Indo-G-ermafiic  nations,  classes  were  here- 
ditary at  the  time  when  these  nations  appeared  on  the  stage  of  history. 
It  is,  he  says,  a  novelty  to  him  to  learn  that  anywhere  amongst  the 
Indo-Germans  of  yore,  the  classes  could  intermarry  without  any  limit. 
The  Bactrians,  it  appears  to  him,  were  the  most  exclusive  of  all  the 
Indo-Germans  in  their  notions  about  intermarriage,  for  the  Magi  of 
old,  and  the  Parsis  of  modern  times,  proceed  to  such  lengths  in  their 
apprehension  of  intermingling  pure  with  impure  blood,  that  they  esteem 
marriages  between  the  nearest  relatives  to  be  meritorious.  Ho~wever 
that  may  be,  he  asks  (after  referring  to  the  Iranian  subdivision  of  classes 
as  above  specified),  whether  the  bare  facts  of  the  case  such  as  we  know 
them  at  present,  lead  to  the  conclusion  that  it  was  only  in  India  that 
the  Brahmans  acquired  or  usurped  a  supremacy  which  did  not  belong 
to  them  before  they  came  to  India?  This  question  he  finds  himself 
obliged  to  answer  in  the  negative.  The  further  question,  how  far  the 
four  castes  as  a  legal  institution  were  common  to  all  the  Arian  nations? 
Professor  Kern  leaves  undecided,  only  drawing  attention  to  the  fact 
that  hereditary  classes  with  prescriptions  regarding  marriage,  etc., 
among  aU  the  Indo-Germans,  deviate  less  from  the  character  of  the 
existing  Hindu  castes  in  proportion  as  we  extend  our  view  further' 
bacls  into  the  history  of  the  past. 

A  learned  friend  has  favoured  me  with  some  remarks  on  Dr.  Kern's 
dissertation,  of  which  I  will  give  the  substance,  with  some  additions  of 
my  own. 

The  decisive  objection  against  these  assertions  is,  that  if  castes  had 
existed  from  the  earliest  times,  they  must  have  been  everywhere  men- 
tioned in  the  oldest  Indian  records.    Just  as  the  later  books  are  full  of 
VOL.  II.  30 


458  REMARKS  ON  THE  POSITION  OP  PROFESSOR 

allusions  to  them  usque  ad  nauseum,  so  must  in  that  case  the  ancient 
texts  also  have  constantly  referred  to  them.  But  now  the  Purusha- 
sukta  alone  takes  notice  of  them.  Thisis  strange.  Professor  Kern 
considers  that  the  argumentum  a  silentio  may  be  abused,  but  in  this 
case  its  application  seems  to  be  perfectly  legitimate.  Tor  the  rest,  it 
should  not  be  necessary  to  prove  to  a  Sanskrit  scholar  that  this  hymn 
is  not  old.  Does  it  not  read  as  much  like  a  set  of  verses  from  the 
Mahabharata  as  like  one  of  the  older  hymns  ?'  If  that  be  not  admitted, 
and  special  proofs  be  required,  it  is  8ufB.oient  to  draw  attention  to  the 
fact  that  the  words  "vai^ya,"  "  sudra,"  "  prishadajya,"  "sadhya" 
(v.  7),  occur  only  in  this  hymn  (verse  16  is  here,  as  also  in  E.V.  i. 
164,  50,  evidently  a  subsequent  additioii);  and  that  in  v.  14,  we  have 
"loka"  not  "u  loka"  (see  the  St.  Petersburg  Lexicon,  s.v.) 

Professor  Kern  urges  that  in  the  estimation  of  the  author  of  the 
Purusha-sukta  castes  are  as  old  as  the  sun  and  moon.  True;  but 
what  does  that  prove  ?  Is  not  in  India  everything  as  old  ?  Did  not 
the  first  man  compose  the  well-known  institutes  of  law  ? 

Professor  Kern  says  (p.  10)  that  the  same  classes  are  found 
among  all  kinds  of  nations.  This  tells  more  against,  than  for,  him. 
In  these  cases  it  is  natural  classes,  and  not  unnatural  castes,  that  we 
find.  And  if  the  writer  had  made  this  distinction  clear  to  himself,  and 
had  sought  in  his  texts  for  the  characteristics  of  each,  he  would  have 
seen  that  there  were  no  grounds  for  the  assertion  he  has  made.  For 
we  all  know  that  wherever  human  society  has  attained  to  a  settled 
order,  it  has  become  divided  into  classes;  and  that  privileged  orders 
have  everywhere  existed.  But  the  transformation  of  classes  into  castes 
is  peculiar  to  India  (even  in  Egypt  there  were  no  castes  in  a  strict 
sense).  But  this  transformation  did  not  cause  itself.  Did,  for  instance, 
the   Vaisya  impose   on  himself   the   restriction  that  he  was  not  to 

'  This  does  not  of  course  mean  that  the  Purusha-sukta  is  contemporaneous  with 
the  Mahahharata;  and  is  not  in  some  respects  of  a  more  archaic  character  than 
even  the  oldest  parts  of  the  latter.  The  rules  of  Sandhi,  which  were  in  force  at 
the  time  when  the  Mahabharata  was  composed,  are  not  observed  in  the  Purusha- 
sukta  (see  above  p.  161,  end  of  note  181) ;  and  neuter  plural  forms  like  vism  in 
verse  3  of  the  latter  are  no  longer  used  in  the  former.  In  the  opinion  of  my 
correspondent,  the  tenth  mandala  of  the  R.V.  is  properly  a  gleaning  of  hymns 
supplementary  to  the  preceding  books,  and  contains  compositions  in  regard  to  the 
authorship  of  which  no  tradition  had  been  preserved.  That  such  a  "  gleaning  " 
should  contain  comparatively  recent  poems  need  occasion  no  surprise. 


KEEN  ON  THE  ANTIQUITY  OF  CASTES.  459 

learn,  and  to  practise,  the  functions  of  a  priest,  not  to  marry  the 
daughter  of  a  Brahman,  etc.  ?  All  this  necessarily  arose  from  a  legis- 
lation which  from  small  beginnings  was  continually  pushing  its  inroads 
further  and  further;  that  is,  it  took  place  artificially,  "With  this 
process  should  be  compared  the  privileges  which  the  Eomish  Chutch 
has  partly  striven  after,  and  partly  attained,  for  its  Brahmans.  And 
who  but  the  Brahmans  themselves  were  the  authors  of  this  legislation  ? 

"The  great  point,  I  repeat,  is  to  distinguish  between  the  natural 
classes  or  orders,  and  castes,  which  cannot  have  arisen  naturally,  but 
are  artificial. 

"  The  solution  of  the  question  at  issue  cannot  turn  on  the  degree  of 
strictness  with  which  the  classes  were  separated  from  each  other.  "We 
have  long  been  acquainted  with  the  fact  that  classes  and  races — like 
nations — were  everywhere  far  more  rudely  held  asunder  in  ancient 
than  in  modem  times.  It  is  thus  perfectly  natural  that  marriages 
between  persons  of  dififerent  classes  were  also  rare.  Let  it  be  recol- 
lected what  a  gulf  divided  the  patricians  and  plebeians  in  Eome. 
Hence  the  greatest  weight  is  to  be  attached  to  an  exact  definition  of 
the  conception  of  caste.  I  believe  it  may  be  asserted  that  it  is  only 
in  India  that  the  conclusions  resulting  from  this  conception  have  been 
completely  drawn,  by  regarding  each  caste  as  a  description  of  men  sui 
generis,  as  a  separate  divine  creation. 

"I  am  not  aware  on  what  evidence  Professor  Kern  founds  his 
opinion  that  the  Bactrians  were  the  most  exclusive  of  all  the  Indo- 
Germans  in  regard  to  intermarriage.  On  this  subject  I  would  draw 
attention  to  the  passage  of  Herodotus  iii.  31,  where  the  marriage  of 
Cambyses  with  his  sister  is  spoken  of  at  length.  "What  the  later 
Iranian  books  say  of  the  so-called  Khetudas  can  prove  nothing  in 
regard  to  ancient  times.  The  Avesta  gives,  so  far  as  I  understand  of 
it,  no  sort  of  prescription  about  the  marriage  of  relatives ;  and  the 
counsellors  of  Cambyses  said  to  him  quite  correctly  vofiov  ovBeva 
i^evpia-Keiv,  o?  xeXevei  aBeX^ey  awoiKeeiv  dSeX<pe6v.  We  must  first 
be  told  what  the  word  qaetvadatha  (see  Justi's  Lexicon,  p.  86),  in  the 
few  passages  of  the  Avesta  where  it  occurs,  actually  signifies.  Justi 
himself  understands  it  as  meaning  marriage  between  relatives  only  in 
one  place.  And  even  that  has  yet  to  be  proved.  The  word  qaetu 
(hva^tu), — or  as  it  would  be  more  correct  (namely  on  the  ground  of 


460  NAMES  OF  THE  CLASSES  IN 

the  metre,  which  everywhere  reckons  hv  [=^1  as  a  syllable;  e.g. 
qathta  [hv^thra]  as  trisyllabic  =  huathra)  to  write  it, — haetu,  means 
only  relationship  (and  is  in  tbe  Gathas  always  bisyllabic).  Any  one 
who  wishes  to  combine  with  that  the  idea  of  marriage,  must  prove  his 
point.  In  Spiegel  too,  I  find  no  example  from  the  old  books.  In  fact, 
he  says  in  his  Introduction  to  vol.  ii.  of  his  translation,  p.  xxvi.,  that 
'  everything  relating  to  marriage  appears  to  date  from  a  very  recent 
period.' 

The  explanations  of  the  few  Avesta  passages  which  Professor  Kern 
adduces  are  not  of  importance  in  their  bearing  on  the  main  question. 
Ordinarily,  ill  fact,  it  is  only  the  three  natural  classes,  Athrava, 
Eathesta,  and  Va^trya  (cattle-farmer),  that  are  mentioned.  Though 
in  two  passages  a  "huiti"  or  "vaeia"  is  added  to  these,  that,  too,  is 
only  a  class.  Professor  Kern  explains  "  vaesa"  rightly.  In  the  Veda 
also  "  ve^a"  denotes  a  dependent  settler,  perhaps  an  inhabitant,  one 
belonging  to  somebody,  and  so  a  servant.  The  interpretation  of  huiti 
as  a  "  proletary  "  does  not  appear  to  be  in  conformity  with  the  con- 
ceptions of  that  period.  If  it  is  to  have  such  a  signification,  why  does 
he  not  rather  derive  it  from  "hu"  =  "su"  (compare  "prasuta,"  and 
other  forms  which  frequently  occur  in  the  ancient  language),  which 
means  to  command,  direct  ? 

I  may,  in  addition  to  the  above  remarks,  draw  attention  to  the  fact, 
that  if  the  Indian  and  Iranian  classes  had  a  common  and  simultaneous 
origin,  it  is  singular  that  there  should  be  no  trace  of  any  similarity  in 
the  names  by  which  these  classes  were  permanently  denoted,  although 
the  Zend  and  the  Sanskrit  exhibit  so  close  an  affinity  in  so  large  a 
portion  of  their  vocabulary. 

It  is  true  that  two  of  the  words  are  common  to  both  languages,  as 
"athrava"  (crude  form  "atharvan")  corresponds  to  the  Sanskrit 
"  atharvan" ;  while  the  Zend  "rathaestao"  answers  nearly  to  the 
Sanskrit  "ratheshtha."  The  former  word,  "atharvan,"  is  thus  explained 
in  Bohtlingk  and  Koth's  Lexicon  :  "  {a)  The  fire  and  soma  priest,  E.V. 
ix.  11,  2;  viii.  9,  7  (here  Agni  is  the  priest);  V.S.  viii.  56  (Soma  is 
his  own  priest) ;  E.V.  vi.  47,  24  ;  x.  48,  2 ;  a  brahman,  Medinikosha, 
n.  164 ;  {h)  Atharvan  personified  is  the  first  priest,  in  an  undefined 
antiquity,  who  calls  down  fire  from  heaven,  ofiers  soma,  and  presents 
prayers,  E.V.  vi.  16,  13  ;  vi.  15,  17;  x.  21,  5;  i.  80,  16;  x.  92,  10 ; 


PEESIA  AND  INDIA  NOT  THE  SAME,  461 

i.  83,  5 ;  A.V.  xviii.  3,  54.  "With  miraculous  powers  he  overoomes 
the  demons,  and  receives  from  the  gods  celestial  gifts,  E.V.  x.  87,  12, 
etc."  In  Prof.  Wilson's  Dictionary  the  word  is  explained  as  signifying 
a  brahman.  Prof,  Goldstucker,  s.v.  interprets  it  as  "  (1)  A  brahmana, 
a  priest,  probably  one  connected  with  offerings  to  fire,  or  the  attend-r 
ance  on  the  holy  fire.  (2)  The  proper  name  of  a  priest  who  is  con- 
sidered to  have  obtained  fire  from  heaven,"  etc.,  etc,  The  word  is 
perpetuated  in  the  name  of  the  Atharvaveda  (which  also  bears  the  name 
of  the  "  Atharvangirasas,"  the  hymns  or  incantations  of  the  Atharvans 
and  of  the  Angirases,  who  were  another  set  of  ancient  sages,  or 
priests).  But  although  we  should  admit,  on  the  authority  of  the 
Medinikosha,  that  "  atharvan"  is  a  synonym  of  brahmana,  it  cannot  be 
said  to  have  obtained  much  currency  in  Sanskrit  in  this  sense,  and 
cannot  even  be  regarded  as  a  generic  name  for  priest.  The  passages  of 
the  R.V.  given  by  Roth  (see  above),  in  which  it  is  not  employed  as  a 
proper  name,  are  the  following :  ix.  11,2  (=S.V.  ii.  2) :  AIM  te  madhund 
payo  atluvrvano  aiiirayuh  \  devam,  devaya  devayu  \  "  The  atharvans  have 
mingled  milk  with  thy  sweet  liquor,  [milk  which  is]  divine,  and 
devoted  to  [thee,  soma],  who  art  divine."  viii.  9,  1 :  A  somam  madhu- 
rmUamam  gharm^m  sinch&d  atharvani  \  "  Let  him  (the  jishi)  pour  the 
sweet  soma,  the  heated  potion,  into  the  priest."  By  the  priest  is 
meant  Agni,  according  to  Professor  Both.  Sayana  explains  the  word 
atharvani  as  =  aMmsalce  'gnau  |  yadvd  Hhariia  fisMh  \  tena  nwmathito 
'gmr  upaohdrad  "  atharm  "  ity  uchyate  \  "  Into  the  innoxious  fire ;  or, 
Atharvan  was  a  yishi ;  the  fire  rubbed  forth  by  him  is  by  a  figure  called 
'  atharvan.' "  Vaj.  S.  viii.  56  ;  A  tharva  wpdvahriyamanah  |  "  It  (soma) 
becomes  '  atharvan  '  when  being  brought."  Here,  Professor  Both  says 
Soma  is  his  own  priest.  (The  commentator's  note  is  as  follows : 
Eandcmdrtham  v/pa/oahriyamamh  dniyamanah  soma  Hharva-namak)  hha- 
vati.)  B.V.  vi.  47,  24 :  Dasa  r^thdn  prashtimatah  satam  gah  athmva- 
bhyai  I  Aivatha^  P&yme  addt  \  '  Agatha  has  given  ten  chariots  with 
their  horses,  and  a  hundred  cows,  to  the  priests,  to  Payu."  Sayana 
explains  atharvahhyah  as  =  atharva-gotrehhya^  rishihhyah  \  "  Bishis  of 
the  family  of  Atharvan."  E.V.  x.  48,  2  :  Aham  Jndro  rodho  vaksho 
Atharvanah\  "I,  Indra,  am  the  protecting  armour,  and  strength,  of 
Atharvan  [or,  of  the  priest]."  Both,  s.v.  vahsha^,  seems  to  take 
Atharvan  in  this  text  for  a  proper  name.    The  word  employed  in  the 


462  PROFESSOR  HATJG'S  OPINION 

Veda  for  priest  was  at  first  "  brahman,"  and  subsequently  "  brahmana," 
tbe  son  of  a  "brahman."  See  the  first  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  242,  ff. 
If  "atharvan"  had  been  the  name  of  a  caste  in  the  Indian  sense  from 
a  period  preceding  the  separation  of  the  Indo-  and  Perso-Arians,  it 
could  scarcely  have  been  dropped  by  the  former,  or  made  way  for 
"  brahman"  and  "  brahmana." 

The  crude  form  of  "  rathaestao,'"  as  given  in  Justi's  Dictionary,  is 
"  rathaestar,"  whilst  the  Sanskrit  form  is  "  ratheshtha."  The  words 
thus  differ  somewhat  in  form.  In  all  the  passages  of  the  Eig- 
veda,  cited  in  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth's  Lexicon,  "ratheshtha"  appears 
to  be  an  epithet  of  Indra,  "riding  in  a  chariot."  The  only  other 
text  cited  in  the  Lexicon,  viz.  Taj.  S.  22,  22,  is  as  follows:  A 
hrahman  hrdhmano  hrahmwoarehasi  j&yats.m  \  a  rashtre  r&jcmyo 
surah  ishmyo  'tivyaiM  mahdratho  jayatam\  dogdhri  dhenuh  \  vodha 
'nadvan  I  aiulf,  saptih  \  purandMr  yosha  \  jisJtnwh  rathesMhdh  sahheyo 
yuva  d'sya  yafamdnasya  jayaidm  \  "0  priest,  may  a  brahman  be  bom 
possessed  of  the  lustre  of  sacred  learning.  May  a  rajanya  be  bom  in 
the  kingdom,  heroic,  a  piercing  archer,  riding  on  a  great  -chariot 
('  maharatha').  May  a  cow  yielding  milk,  an  ox  fit  to  carry  a  load, 
a  swift  horse,  a  wise  woman,  a  victorious  rider  in  a  chariot  ('rathe- 
shtha,' a  polite  youth,  be  born  to  this  sacrificer."  Fere  it  will  be 
observed  that  the  word  "  ratheshtha"  is  not  one  of  the  epithets  applied 
to  the  Eajanya  in  the  early  part  of  the  sentence;  and  although  where 
it  is  separately  introduced  afterwards,  it  probably  denotes  a  person 
of  the  warrior  class,  yet  it  is  evidently  not  the  appellation  of  a  caste, 
but  a  synonym  for  a  fighting  man.  The  word  does  not  seem  to  be 
known  to  later  Sanskrit ;  at  least,  no  instance  of  its  occurrence  there 
is  adduced  by  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth,  and  it  does  not  appear  at  all  in 
Wilson's  Dictionary. 

In  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  11,  14,  f.,  292,  ff.,  the  views 
ef  Prof.  Haug,  on  the  antiquity  of  caste,  as  explained  in  his  tract  on 
the  "Origin  of  Brahmanism"  (published  at  Poona,  in  1863),  have  been 
stated.  Dr.  Haug  returns  to  the- subject  in  a  dissertation  ("Brahma 
Tind  die  Brahmanen")  read  before  the  Eoyal  Academy  of  Sciences  at 
Munich,  on  the  28th  March,  1871,  in  which  he  maintains,  with  some 
modifications,  the  conclusions  at  which  he  had  before  arrived.  Thus, 
in  p.  13,  he  states — ■ 

(a)  regarding  the  Parusha-stikta :  "In  any  case  it  proves  that  the 


ON  THE  ANTIQUITY  OF  CASTES.  463 

caste-system  in  India  is  very  ancient,  and  existed  already  in  the  Vedic 
age.  Some  have  sought  to  disprove  its  existence  at  that  period,  on  the 
ground  that,  excepting  this  one,  the  old  hymns  contain  no  distinct 
reference  to  it.  The  hymn  itself  they  assign  to  the  very  end  of  the 
Vedic  era.  In  its  present  form,  it  is  true,  it  is  not  older  than  the 
greater  part  of  the  hymns  of  the  tenth  book,  and  than  those  of  the 
Atharvaveda.  But  the  ideas  which  it  contains  are  certainly  of  a 
primeval  antiquity :  in  particular,  the  descriptive  portion  of  it  looks 
like  a  versified  sacrificial  formula.  And  in  fact  the  hymn  is  found  in 
the  Tajuiveda  among  the  formulas  connected  with  human  sacrifices, 
■which  were  formerly  practised  in  India. 

{b)  "But  even  if  it  were  to  be  admitted  that  this  hymn,  with  its 
ideas,  is  but  a  very  recent  product  of  the  Vedic  age,  that  would  afford 
no  sufficient  proof  that  castes  did  not  exist  at  aU  in  the  earliest  period 
of  the  Arian  immigration  into  India.  As  we  have  seen  above,  p.  9, 
the  Brahman  already  appears  [E..V.  iv.  50,  8,  f.,  and  i.  108,  7]  in 
contrast  to  the  Rajan,  i.e.  a  member  of  the  warrior  caste  (they  are  fre- 
quently called  Eajanyas  instead  of  Kshatriyas), — a  circumstance  which 
plainly  points  to  a  distinction  of  castes. 

(e)  "Besides,  it  is  scarcely  conceivable  that  the  caste-system,  to 
which  reference  is  made  in  all  the  four  Vedas,  sometimes  more  fre- 
quently, sometimes  more  rarely,  should  have  been  suddenly  formed  in 
the  later  Vedic  period. 

{d)  "  The  reason  why  the  names  of  the  castes  are  not  mentioned  in 
those  hymns  of  the  Eigveda  which,  rightly  or  wrongly  (for  a  thorough 
investigation  of  this  point  with  certain  rfesults  is  as  yet  wanting),  are 
regarded  as  the  oldest,  may  be  a  different  one,"  [i.e.  the  reason  why 
the  castes  are  not  there  mentioned  need  not  be  that  these  castes  did  not 
then  exist].  "  The  fact,  namely,  must  not  be  overlooked,  that  by  far 
the  greater  part  of  the  Vedic  hymns  were  composed  for  sacrificial 
purposes,  and  partly  for  quite  definite  ceremonies,  are  often  merely  the 
poetical  variations  of  primeval  sacrificial  formulas,  and  further  that  the 
most  of  them  are  the  compositions  of  Brahmans.  As  the  ceremonial  is 
not  prescribed  in  the  hymns,  where  almost  everything  turns  upon  the 
invocation  of  the  most  diverse  gods,  no  opportunity  was  offered  to 
make  special  mention  of  the  castes.  The  sacrificers,  i.e.  those  who 
caused  the  sacrifice  to  be  offered  (yajamanas),  are  called  '  givers '  in 


464  HATJG  ON  THE  ANTIQUITT  OF  CASTES. 

general,  also  'the  rich,'  (maghavan)  without  any  mention  of  their 

caste Now  as  there  were  no  hymns  or  sacrificial  formulas 

composed  specially  for  Brahmans,  or  Kshatriyas,  or  Vai^yas, — as  there 
actually  have  been  for  the  ceremonies  of  the  S'udras,  who  are  not 
allowed  to  hear  verses  of  the  Veda, — the  Vedic  poets  had  no  oppor- 
tunity to  mention  the  castes  in  their  hymns.  Consequently  the  fact 
that  the  names  of  the  individual  castes  do  not  appear  there  does  not 
by  any  means  prove  their  non-existence.  This  conclusion  was  in  any 
case  premature." 

(«)  "  Besides  the  grounds  already  assigned,  a  farther  positive  proof 
can  be  adduced  that  castes  actually  existed  already  in  the  most  ancient 
period.  In  the  religious  records  of  the  Iranians,  who  are  so  nearly 
aUied  [to  the  Indians],  in  the  Zendavesta,  the  four  castes  are  quite 
plainly  to  be  found,  only  under  other  names,  (1)  Athrava,  '  priest,' 
(Skr.  Atharvan),  (2)  Eathaestao,  'warrior,'  (3)  Vastriyo  fshuyas, 
'  cultivator,'  (4)  Huitis  (Pehl.  hutokhsh),  'workman'  (Tasna  19,  17, 
"Westerg.)  No  further  data  regarding  the  mutual  relations  of  these 
castes  are  contained  in  the  Zend  writings ;  but  we  can  conclude,  from 
various  circumstances,  that  the  priests,  the  Athravas,  already  formed  a 
caste.  So,  for  example,  Zarathustra  is  forbidden  by  Ahuramazda  to 
communicate  a  sacred  text  to  any  one  else  but  an  Athrava,  i.e.  priest 
(Tasht  14,  46,  "West.)."  [See  Spiegel's  Avesta,  iii.  148.]  "No  one  but 
the  son  of  a  priest  may  be  a  priest,  and  the  daughters  of  members  of 
the  priestly  caste  may  only  be  given  in  marriage  within  the  caste, — 
a  custom  which  continues  to  this  day.  The  distinction  of  the  other 
castes  has,  however,  become-  obliterated  among  the  Zoroastrians,  just 
in  the  Same  way  as,  among  the  Hindus,  the  Brahman  caste  alone  has 
on  the  whole  been  maintained  pure,  though  split  up  into  innumerable 
subdivisions,  whilst  the  other  three  castes  have  become  dissolved  into 
a  great  number  of  mixed  castes,  so  that  at  the  present  day,  properly 
speaking,  four  castes  only  exist  in  theory,  but  not  in  reality.  This 
circumstance,  now,  that  a  remnant  of  the  caste-system  has  stiU  been 
preserved  among  the  Zoroastrians,  speaks  strongly  in  favour  of  the 
assumption  that  that  institution  already  existed  among  the  Indians  in 
the  remotest  times,  in  any  case  ever  since  their  immigration  into  India. 
How  close  the  connexion  between  the  old  Indians  and  the  Iranians 
must  have  remained,  even  in  the  Vedic  period,  is  shown  by  a  distinct 


EEMAEKS  ON  PEOFESSOE  HAUG'S  VIEWS.  465 

allusion  which  I  have  lately  discovered  in  the  Zendavesta  to  the  initial 
verse  of  the  Atharvaveda." 

(/)  In  an  earlier  part  of  his  Dissertation  (p.  8,  f.),  Prof.  Haug,  after 
explaining  that  in  the  Vedio  age  Kshatriyas  as  well  as  Brahmans  could 
take  part  in  the  performance  of  sacrifice,  and  were  in  some  cases  com- 
posers of  Eik  verses ;  and  that  even  Kavasha  Ailusha,  the  son  of  a  slave, 
was  the  author  of  a  hymn  (see  ahove,  p.  397,  f.,  note  85),  adds :  "  Not- 
withstanding that  the  Brahmans  in  the  Vedic  age  occasionally  accorded 
to  distinguished  men  of  other  classes  a  participation  in  the  privileges 
they  claimed,  they  nevertheless  appear,  even  in  the  most  remote  period, 
to  have  formed  a  caste  distinguished  from  the  other  classes,  and  already 
tolerably  exclusive,  into  which  no  one  who  was  not  born  in  it  could, 
without  great  difficulty,  obtain  an  entrance."  He  then  quotes  the 
text  K.V.  iv.  50,  8,  f.,  and  refers  to  and  compares  i.  108,  7. 

I  add  a  few  remarks  on  some  portions  of  Prof.  Haug's  argument. 

(a)  In  regard  to  the  Purusha-sukta,  I  refer  to  what  has  been  said 
above,  in  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  p.  11.  Prof.  Hang  now 
states  his  opinion  that  the  ideas  of  the  hymn  are  very  old,  but  not  its 
diction. 

(8)  See  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  246,  and  247,  note  15  in 
the  latter  page,  and  p.  263,  f.,  also  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth's  Lexicon,  s.v. 
"kshatra."  Does  not  Prof.  Hang  found  too  much  on  the  passages 
to  which  he  refers  (R.V.  iv.  50,  8,  f.,  and  i.  108,  7)  ?  See,  however, 
the  verse  of  Manu,  iii.  13,  quoted  below,  where  the  word  "rajan"  is 
employed  for  Eajanya.  In  R.Y.  iv.  50,  8,  f.,  the  word  seems  evidently 
to  denote  a  "king."  In  E.V.  i.  108,  7,  however,  it  may  mean  a  man 
of  the  ruling  tribe  or  class.  Comp.  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth's  Lexicon, 
s.v.  "rajan." 

(e)  The  Vedic  period  was  of  considerable  duration.  Professor  Haug 
himself  estimates  the  period  during  which  "the  bulk  of  the  Sanhita" 
was  composed  to  have  been  from  1400 — 2000  before  our  era,  and 
thinks  "the  oldest  hymns  and  sacrificial  formulas  may  be  a  few 
hundred  years  more  ancient  still,  so  that  we  would  fix  the  very  com- 
mencement of  Vedic  literature  between  2400  and  2000."  Ait.  Br.  i. 
47,  f.  The  entire  Vedio  period  would  thus  be  a  thousand  years,  which 
however,  is,  perhaps,  too  large  an  estimate. 

{d)  The  reasons  here  assigned  in  explanation  of  the  non-occurrence 


466  SCHLEGEL  ON  THE  MUTATIONS  OF  LANGTJAGB. 

in  the  hymns  of  other  references  to  the  castes,  supposing  them  to  have 
then  existed,  and  to  have  borne  the  same  names  as  afterwards,  seem 
scarcely  sufficient.  The  hymns  do  not  appear  to  be  so  exclusively 
sacrificial  in  their  character  as  is  here  assumed ;  and  might  in  many 
passages  have  admitted  of  allusions  to  the  existence  of  castes. 

(e)  The  observations  abeady  made  upon  Professor  Eem's  Dissertation 
are  applicable  here. 

(/)  In  reference  to  these  remarks,  see  the  first  volume  of  this  vork, 
p.  265,  £f.  Prof.  Kern,  in  his  Dissertation,  p.  18,  cites  a  passage  from 
the  Mahabharata,  xiii.  2505,  ff.,  in  regard  to  the  intermarriages  of  Brah- 
mans  with  the  other  two  next  classes,  one  verse  of  which  (2515)  is  to  the 
following  effect :  Ahrdhmamm  tu  manyante  S'udrd-putratn  anaipunat  | 
trishu  varneshu  Jdto  hi  hrahmandd  brdhmano  hhavet  \  "They  regard 
from  want  of  skill  as  not  a  Brahman  the  son  of  a  S'udra  woman  [by  a 
Brahman  father].  A  son  begotten  by  a  Brahman  in  the  three  castes 
[i.e.  on  a  woman  of  either  of  the  upper  three  classes]  wiU  be  a  Brah- 
man." And  Manu  says,  iii.  13,  S'udrawa  Ihdryd  S'udrasya  sd  eha 
svd  cha  visah  smrite  \  te  cha  svd  chaiva  rdjnai  eha  ids  cha  svd  cV  dgra- 
janmamah  \  "A  S'udra  female  only  can  be  the  wife  of  a  S'udra.  She 
and  a  woman  of  his  own  caste  may  be  the  wives  of  a  Vi^,  i.e.  Vaisya. 
These  two  and  a  woman  of  his  own  caste  may  be  the  wives  of  a 
Eajan,'i.e.  Eajanya;  these  three  and  a  woman  of  his  own  caste  may 
be  the  wives  of  a  Brahman."  Prom  these  texts  it  would  appear 
that  purity  of  caste  blood  was  not  much  regarded  among  the  Hindus 
in  early  ages. 


NOTE  Q.—Page  258. 

"  The  conformities  [between  the  languages  of  the  same  family]  are 
astonishing ;  and  especially  so,  because  they  enter  into  the  minutest 
details,  and  even  into  the  anomalies.  It  is  a  curious  phenomenon  to 
discover  such  an  inconceivable  tenacity  in  idioms  which  might  appear 
to  be  nothing  more  than  passftig  caprices.  The  most  volatile  portion 
of  languages,  I  mean  their  pronunciation,  has  evinced  its  stability :  in 
the  midst  of  mutations  of  letters,  which  are,  nevertheless,  subject  to 
certain  rules,  vowels,  long  or  short,  have  often  preserved  their  quan- 
tity."    "On  the  other  hand,  the  disparity  is  great:  the  distances  which 


GELDARrS  PAPEE— "LANGUAGE  NO  TEST  OF  RACE."    467 

the  languages  have  traversed  in  their  individual  development  are 
immense.  After  we  have  exhausted  all  the  analogies,  even  the  most 
secret,  there  remains  in  each  of  these  languages  a  portion  ■which  is 
no  longer  susceptible  of  comparison  with  the  other  languages  of  the 
same  family.  We  must  therefore  admit  as  the  causes  of  that  partial 
incommensurableness,  two  opposite  principles,  viz.,  obliTion  and  in- 
vention. The  oblivion  of  forms  and  words  formerly  in  use  is  but  too 
manifest  in  the  languages  with  whose  history  we  are  most  intimately 
acquainted ;  and  it  has  frequently  injured  their  richness  and  beauty. 
Such  oblivion  must  always  follow  a  retrograde  movement  in  civili- 
zationi  in  proportion  as  the  intellectual  sphere  is  contracted,  a  gene- 
ration which  has  relapsed  into  ignorance  and  barbarism,  abandons 
expresaons  which  have  now  become  superfluous.  And  as  regards 
invention,  I  find  no  difficulty  in  that  either,  since  in  order  to  com- 
prehend the  absolute  origin  of  language,  we  have  no  choice  between 
having  recourse  to  a  miracle,  and  conceding  to  mankind  an  in- 
stinctive power  of  inventing  language." — A.  "W.  von  Schlegel,  de 
I'origine  des  Hindous,  Essais ;  and  in  the  Transactions  of  the  Eoyal 
Society  of  Literature  of  the  United  Kingdom,  vol.  ii.  p.  433. 


NOTE  D.—Poffe  277. 

Mr.  Geldart  argues  the  question  both  from  a  negative  and  a  positive 
point  of  view.  Under  the  first  head,  he  remarks  that  "language  is 
too  -uncertain  an  ethnological  test  to  be  of  any  practical  value,"  and 
instances  the  complete  discrepancy  which  exists  between  the  races  and 
the  languages  of  the  British  Isles.  Cumberland  and  Cornwall,  for 
example,  in  language  agree  with  London  and  disagree  with  Wales, 
while  as  to  race,  it  is  directly  the  reverse."  The  same  thing  is  shown, 
he  observes,  "  by  many  similar  examples :  the  accumulative  evidence 
of  all  amounted  to  this,  that  since  in  so  many  cases  where  the  ethno- 
logieal  indications  of  language  can  be  compared  with  the  actual  testi- 
mony of  history,  the  latter  completely  contradicts  the  former,"  a 
common  language  is  "  not  even  prima  facie  evidence  in  favour  of  a 
common  lineage."  "  Secondly,  in  a  positive  point  of  view,  it  was 
shown  that  in  all  the  instances  above  cited,  there  had  taken  place 
between  the  races  a  close  assimilation  of  (1)  political,  (2)  religious,  (3) 


468  SPIEGEL  ON  THE  IRANIAN  DIALECTS. 

intellectual,  or  (4)  general  social  relations,  or  of  any,  or  of  all  of  ttese 
combined;  and  it  was  suggested  that  it  is  such  an  assimilation,  and 
not  unity  of  race,  that  unity  of  language  rightly  typifies." 

"  The  sum  of  the  whole  was,  that  it  is  not  safe  to  infer  from 
a£B.nity  between  the  language  of  two  nations  more  than  this,  that  there 
was  a  time  when  there  existed  between  them  civil,  religious,  or  some 
sort  of  social  relations.  Language  was  the  product  and  token  of  a 
nation's  political,  moral,  or  intellectual,  but  not  of  its  physical  con- 
stitution. It  would  not  reveal  a  people's  genealogy,  but  its  mental 
and  social  history. 

"  Should  it  ever  be  proved  that  all  languages  were  derived  from  one 
original,  the  sole  valid  inference  would  be,  that  at  some  time  one 
sovereign  race  had  imposed  upon  all  the  rest  its  own  political  or  social 
institutions,  while  the  great  question  of  the  number  of  races  would 
remain  just  where  it  stood." 


NOTE  D^.—Page  287. 
"  Strabo  tells  us  that  the  tribes  of  the  Persians,  Modes,  Bactrians, 
and  Sogdians,  spoke  nearly  the  same  language.  "We  can  have  no 
difB.culty  in  supposing  that  this  similarity  of  speech  which  existed  in 
Strabo's  age,  existed  also  in  earlier  times.  The  old  Iranian  dialects, 
of  which  the  monuments  have  been  still  preserved  to  us,  justify  this 
assumption.  Of  these  there  are  four,  (1)  the  speech  of  the  earlier 
Achsemenidse,  (2)  that  of  the  later  Aohsemenidse,  (3)  the  dialect  of 
the  Gathas,'  (4)  the  old  Bactrian,  the  ordinary  language  of  the 
Avesta.  The  last  two  dialects  might  perhaps  also  be  embraced 
under  the  designation  of  Avestic.  The  first  two  of  these  dialects 
belong  to  western,  the  last  two  to  eastern,  Iran." — Spiegel,  in  Kuhn 
and  Schleicher's  Beitrage  zur  Vergl.  Sprachf.  ii.  6.  I  must  refer  to 
the  original  paper  for  further  details  regarding  these  dialects.  I  will 
only  quote  one  or  two  remarks.  In  his  account  of  the  old  Persian  or 
earlier. Achaemenidan  dialect,  Spiegel,  observes  (p.  7),  that,  "we  find 
in  it  all  the  classes  of  the  Sanskrit  alphabet  represented,  excepting 
the  cerebrals,  which  have  a  purely  local  origin."    (See  above,  p.  440, 

'  [It  is  scarcely  necessary  to  say  that  this  has  no  connexion  with  the  Indian 
Gatha  dialect,  described  above,  pp.  115,  flf.— J.M.] 


YAMA'S  HEAVEN  ACCORDING  TO  THE  EIGVEDA.  469 

note.)  At  p.  13,  he  remarks:  "We  have  pointed  out  in  the  entire 
grammar  of  the  old  Persian  so  much  that  is  identical  with  the 
Sanskrit,  that  it  may  now  be  time  to  notice  the  differences  which 
stamp  it  as  a  distinct  language  from  the  old  Indian.  Not  a  few  such 
peculiarities  are  to  be  found  in  all  the  departments  of  grammar. 
In  a  phonetic  aspect,  there  is  this  important  deviation  that  the  old 
Persian  has  the  letter  3,  which  is  unknown  to  the  Sanskrit,  and 
that  it,  like  the  Greek,  changes  the  Indian  s  into  h." — (See  above, 
pp.  313,  and  315). 


NOTE  ^.—P.affe  296. 
Eigveda  ix.  113,  7-11.  Yatra  jyotir  <yasram  yastmn  lake  svar 
Mtam  I  Tasmin  mam  dhehi  pcmamuna  amrite  lake  ahMte  \  Yatra 
raja  Fimasvato  yatravwrodhwnam  divah  \  Yairdmur  yaJwattr  apas  tatra 
mam  amritam  kridhi  |  Yatrdnukamam  charamm  trindlce  tridive  divah  \ 
Jjokah  yatra  jyotishnantas  tatra  mam,  etc.  |  Yatra  hdmdh  nikdmaicha 
yatra  Iradhnasya  vishtapam  \  Svadhd  cha  yatra  triptUcha  tatra  mdm, 
etc.  I  Yatrdnandd&cha  modaicha  mudah  pramuda  asate  \  Kdmasya 
yatraptdh  kdmds  tatra  mdm,  etc.  |  ."Place  me,  0  purified  (Soma),  in 
that  undeoaying  unchanging  region,  where  perpetual  light  and  glory 
abide.  Make  me  immortal  in  the  world  where  king  Yaivasvata 
(Tama)  reigns,  where  the  sanctuary  of  the  sky  is,  and  those  great 
waters  are.  Make  me  immortal  iu  the  third  heaven,  where  action  is 
at  pleasure,  where  the  shining  regions  exist.  Make  me  immortal  in 
the  world  where  all  enjoyments  abide,  in  the  realm  of  the  sun,  where 
celestial  food  and  satisfaction  are  found.  Make  me  immortal  in  the 
world  where  there  are  manifold  pleasures  and  joys,  and  where  the 
objects  of  desire  are  attained."  Benfey,  Gloss,  to  Samaveda,  under 
the  word  nikama,  renders  svaiha  and  triptih  by  "nectar  and  ambrosia." 
See  the  fifth  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  284,  ff. 


NOTE  'S.—Page  297. 
I  shall  here  translate  or  abstract  the  most  important  parts  of  Dr. 
"Windisohmann's  Dissertation,  "  On  the  Soma-worship  of  the  Arians." 
Dr.  Windischmann  be^ns  with  the  following  remarks  :  "  If  we  advert 
to  the  striking  contrast  which  exists  between  the  doctrine  of  Zafa- 
thustra  and  the  Brahmanical  system,  and  to  the  fact  that  the  former 


470  DE.  WINDISCHMANN'S  DISSERTATION. 

must  be  looted  on  as  the  work  of  a  reformer  seeking  to  preserve  the 
old  nature-worship  from  the  mythological  transformations  with  which 
it  was  threatened,  it  must  appear  as  a  matter  of  the  greater  im- 
portance to  throw  light  upon  those  points  in  which  the  two  religions 
agree.  For  as  regards  th(^se  conceptions  which  existed  before  the  two 
systems  had  developed  their  opposing  principles,  we  may  reasonably 
assume  that  they  were  possessed  in  common  long  before  the  separation 
of  the  Arian  race  into  the  Indian  and  Iranian  branches,  that  they 
formed  part  of  the  (already  existing,  and  distinguishable)  religions  of 
the  Zendavesta  and  the  Yeda,  and  that  they  had  been  inherited  from 
the  most  primitive  tradition.  Such  traditions  are,  indeed,  compara- 
tively few  ;  but  the  concurrence  of  those  which  have  been  preserved, 
is  so  much  the  more  striking ;  as,  for  example,  Lassen  (Ind.  Ant.  i. 
517)  has  shown  in  regard  to  the  Iranian  legend  of  king  Tima,  son  of 
Vivaiighat,  who  corresponds  to  the  Indian  Tama,  son  of  Vivasvat. 
Tima,  however,  is  regarded  by  the  Medo-Persians  as  the  first  king, 
lawgiver,  and  founder  of  the  Iranian  worship,  while  Tama  is  looked 
on  by  the  Brahmans  as  lord  of  Hades  (E.V.  i.  35,  6),  and  judge  of  the 
dead,  and  it  is  his  brother  Manu  who  plays  the  same  part  as  Tima." 
[See,  however,  p.  296,  above.]  "But  by  far  the  most  remarkable 
analogy  is  that  which  exists  between  the  Haoma  of  the  Zendavesta  and 
the  Soma  of  the  most  ancient  Brahmanical  books,  an  analogy  which  is 
not  confined  to  some  few  features  of  the  legend,  but  extends  to  the 
entire  Soma- worship  of  the  early  Arian  race. 

"  Haoma  and  Soma  are  names  etymologically  identical.  Both  come 
from  the  root  su,  in  Zend  hu,  which  signifies,  '  to  beget,'  and  also,  but 
especially  in  the  Vedio  dialect,  to  '  drop,'  or  '  to  press  out  juice.'  In 
later  Indian  mythology  Soma  means  the  moon  and  its  deity :  but  in 
the  Zendavesta  and  the  Vedas  it  signifies  a  celebrated  plant,  and  its 
juice.  This  is  the  asolepias  acida,  or  sarcostema  viminalis,  the  ex- 
pressed juice  of  which  produces  a  peculiarly  astringent,  narcotic,  and 
intoxicating  effect.  The  plant,'  plucked  up  by  the  roots,  is  collected 
by  moonlight  on  the  mountains ;  stripped  of  its  leaves ;  carried  on  a 
car  drawn  by  two  goats  to  the  place  of  sacrifice  (where  a  spot  covered 
with  grass  and  twigs  is  prepared);  crushed  between  stones  by  the 

9  Compare  Stevenson's  Translation  of  the  Samaveda,  p.  iv.    This  work  is  re- 
peatedly referred  to  in  the  sequel. 


ON  THE  SOMA-WOESHIP  OF  THE  AEIANS.  471 

priests;  and  is  then  thrown,  stalks  as  well  as  juice  (sprinkled  with 
water)  into  a  sieve,  whence,  after  the  whole  has  been  further  pressed 
by  the  hand  of  the  Brahmans,  the  juice  trickles  into  a  vessel  (called 
d/rona)  which  is  placed  beneath.  The  fluid  is  then  mixed  with  clari- 
fied butter,  wheaten  and  other  flour,  and  brought  into  a  state  of 
fermentation;  it  is  then  offered  thrice  a  day,  and  partaken  of  by 
the  Brahmans.  The  Samaveda  is  almost  entirely  made  up  of  songs  to 
accompany  this  ceremony ;  and  the  Eigveda,  too,  contains  numerous 
passages  which  have  reference  to  it.  It  was  unquestionably  the 
greatest  and  the  holiest  offering  of  the  ancient  Indian  worship.  The 
sound  of  the  trickling  juice  is  regarded  as  a  sacred  hymn.  The  gods 
drink  the  offered  beverage ;  they  long  for  it  (as  it  does  for  them)  ;  they 
are  nourished  by  it,  and  thrown  into  a  joyous  intoxication :  this  is 
the  case  with  Indra  (who  performs  his  great  deeds  under  its  influence), 
with  the  Asvins,  the  Maruts,  and  Agni.  The  beverage  is  divine,  it 
purifies,  it  inspires  greater  joy  than  alcohol,  it  intoxicates  S'akra,  it  is 
a  water  of  life,  protects  and  nourishes,  gives  health  and  immortality, 
prepares  the  way  to  heaven,  destroys  enemies,  etc.  The  Samaveda 
distinguishes  two  kinds  of  Soma,  the  green  and  the  yellow :  but  it  is 
its  golden  colour  which  is  for  the  most  part  celebrated. 

"  If  we  compare  all  this  with  what  the  Persians  say  of  the  Haoma 
plant,  we  find  the  most  surprising  agreement.  Haoma  is  the  first  of 
the  trees,  planted  by  Ahura  Mazda  in  the  fountain  of  life.  He  who 
drinks  of  its  juice  never  dies.  According  to  the  Bundehesh,  the 
Grogard  or  Gokeren  tree  bears  the  Haoma,  which  gives  health  and 
generative  power,  and  imparts  life  at  the  resurrection.  The  Haoma 
plant  does  not  decay,  bears  no  fruit,  resembles  the  vine,  is  knotty,  and 
has  leaves  like  jessamine  ;  it  is  yellow  and  white.  Its  juice  is  prepared 
and  offered  with  sacred  rites,  and  is  called  Parahaoma.  Thus  in 
Tasna,  iii.  5,  it  is  said  haomencka  para-haomeneha  ayese,  '  I  reverence 
the  Haoma  and  the  Para-haoma.' 

"The  fact  that  the  Magians  offered  up  a  plant  was  known  to 
Plutarch,'"  but  what  this  plant  was  is  not  certain The  plant 

">  The  paragraph  in  which  this  information  is  found  (of  which  Windisohmann 
cites  only  a  few  words)  is  as  follows  : — 

Plutarch  de  Isid.  et  Osir.  46.  Nojuffouiri  yap  oi  jxev  Seohs  eTvai  Sio  KoBiirep  kvTni- 
Xvovs,  rbv  fjikv  ayadup,  rhv  Se  (pa^\wv  STjiiiovpySv  •  ol  9^  rhv  fi^v  afielvova  9ehVf  rhv  Be 
erepov  Scdiwya,  noA.oSo'ii'  ■  Scrirep  Zapimrrpis  S  lidyos,  t)v  irwroKiffxiXfois  ^retri  Tar 


472  DE,  -WINDISCHMANN'S  DISSERTATION 

seems  to  have  changed  with  the  locality;  and  the  soma-plant  of  the 
Indians  does  not  appear  to  be  the  same  as  the  haoma  of  the  Persians ; 
at  least  the  latter  affirm  that  their  sacrificial  plant  does  not  grow  in 
India.    Ahura  Mazda  causes  the  white  haoma  to  grow  among  the 

numerous  kinds  of  trees A  constant  appellation  of  the  haoma 

is  the  gold-coloured  (sairigaond),  just  as  in  the  Veda. 

"But  these  are  not  the  only  points  of  resemblance  between  the 
Soma  worship  of  the  Indians  and  Persians.  There  is  one  other  very 
important  particular  in  which  they  both  agree.  In  the  Yedas,  Soma 
is  not  merely  a  sacred  sacrificial  beverage,  but  also  a  god.  This  is 
proved  by  numerous  passages  of  the  Veda  (Stevenson,  p.  98)  ;  and  in 
particular  by  the  splendid  hymn  to  Soma,  Eigveda,  i.  91.  Precisely 
in  the  same  manner,  Haoma  is,  in  the  Zendavesta,  not  a  plant  only, 
but  also  a  powerful  deity ;  and  in  both  works  the  conceptions  of  the 
god  and  the  sacred  juice  blend  wonderfully  with  each  other.  The 
most  important  passages  regarding  this  personified  Haoma  are  to  be 
found  in  the  9th  and  10th  sections  of  the  Yaina,  which  are  explained 
by  striking  analogies  in  the  hymn  of  the  Veda  just  referred  to.     The 

IfioiXKuv  yeyovivai  irpetrPirepov  ISTopovinv.  OZtos  oZv  iKoK^i  rhv  ixcv  'npo/id^riv, 
rhv  Se  'Apeifidvioy  Kal  TrpoffanetfiaiyeTo  rhy  fiev  ioLKeycu  iparl  [tAKiara  tBv  aiadTjriov, 
rhv  Se  UinraKiv  trxSrif  (col  ciymtif-  p.4iroi>  Se  a/iipoTy  Thi>  MiBpriv  clycu-  Sib  Kal  MlBpriv 
Hepffai  rhv  fieffhriv  ovoiJiA^QVffiv  eSiSa^e  p^v  t^  eu/CTala  Bietjf  Kal  xapiffT^pto,  rqj  Se 
airorpdiraia  Kal  (TKvBpund,  n6ay  ydp  rtva  k6tttovtgs  ^fiufAL  KaKoviiivtiv  iy  Sa^u^,  rhv 
*'ASj;i'  oLvaKaKovvTai  Kol  rhv  fftcSroy  efra  pi^avres  ttlpari  \vkov  (rtpayevTos,  ets  t&ttov 
hvi\Ki.ov  is^ipovat  Kal  piirroviri.  Kol  yhp  tZv  tpvTwv  vopi^ovai  to  p,\v  toD  hyoBov 
OeoO,  rh,  8^  tov  kokoO  Sof/toi/os  ^vai'  Kal  t&v  ^^av,  ^air^p  K^vas  Kol  <^pvi&as  Kol 
Xeptraiovs  ix^^^^^)  ''^^  ayaSov  •  rod  Se  (^oiJAou  robs  iv65povs  eJvat,  Stb  Kal  rhy 
KTeipavra  irKelirrovs  evdatp^vlCouffu 

"  For  some  think  that  there  are  two  gods,  as  it  were  opposed  in  their  functions, 
the  one  the  framer  of  good  objects,  the  other  of  bad.  Some  call  the  more  excellent 
being  God,  and  the  other  Demon ;  as  Zoroaster,  the  Magian,  who  is  related  to  have 
lived  5000  years  before  the  Trojan  war.  He  called  the  one  Oromazes,  the  other 
Arimanius,  and  declared  that  the  former  resembled  light  most  of  all  sensible  things, 
and  the  latter  darkness  and  ignorance.  He  also  said  that  Mithras  was  intermediate 
between  them.  This  is  the  reason  why  the  Persians  call  Mithras  the  mediator.  He 
taught  them  to  sacrifice  votive  and  thank-offerings  to  the  one  (Oromazes),  and  to  the 
other  gloomy  oblations  to  avert  his  wrath.  For  after  pounding  a  certain  herb  called 
Smomi  in  a  mortar,  they  invoke  Pluto  and  darkness  ;  and  when  they  have  mixed  it 
with  the  blood  of  a  slaughtered  wolf,  they  carry  it  to  a  sunless  spot  and  cast  it  away. 
For  they  also  regard  certain  plants  as  belonging  to  the  good  deity,  and  others  to  the 
evil  demon ;  and  some  animals,  as  dogs,  and  birds,  and  hedgehogs,  to  the  former 
(and  others  as)  sea-urchins,  to  the  latter ;  and  they  felicitate  those  who  have  killed 
the  greatest  number  of  these  last." 


ON  THE  SOMA-"WOESHIP  OP  THE  AEIANS.  473 

9tli  section  begins  thus :  '  In  early  morning  Haoma  came  to  Zarathus- 
tra,  who  was  consecrating  his  sacred  fire,  and  repeating  prayers.  Zara- 
thustra  asked  him,  "  What  man  art  thou,  whom  I  see  to  be  the  most 
excellent  in  the  whole  existing  world  on  account  of  his  immortal  life?" 
Hereupon  Haoma,  the  pure,  the  remover  of  sickness,  answered  me, 
"  I  am,  0  Zarathustra,  the  pure,  the  remover  of  sickness.  Invoke  me, 
holy  man,  pour  me  forth  to  drink,  celebrate  me  with  praise,  as  formerly 
the  holy  men  used  to  do."  Then  Zarathustra  said,  "  Eeverence  to 
Haoma."  '  "  Haoma  is  here  called  '  remover  of  heat,  or  sickness,'  and 
in  the  same  way  Soma  is  said  in  Kigveda,  i.  91,  12,  to  be  amivahd, 
'  the  destroyer  of  suflfering.'  This  passage  of  the  Ya^na  clearly  shows 
how,  as  I  have  before  mentioned,  the  separate  ideas  of  the  god  and  of 
the  juice  are  blended.  Haoma  desires  that  he  himself  shall  he  pre- 
pared for  sacrifice. 

"  This  passage  is  followed  by  a  specification  of  the  four  original 
worshippers  of  Haoma.  The  first  was  Vivaiihat,  who  prepared  the 
celestial  beverage  hunuta,  and  in  consequence  obtained  a  blessing,  and 
the  fulfilment  of  his  wish  that  a  son  should  be  born  to  him.  This  was 
King  Tima,  the  most  glorious  of  men,  in  whose  realm  men  and  animals 
never  died,  water  and  trees  never  dried  up,  food  was  superabundant, 
and  cold,  heat,  disease,  death,  and  devilish  envy  were  unknown. 

"  "What  has  before  been  said  of  Tima  shows  the  importance  of  this 
passage.  The  worship  of  Haoma  is  placed  anterior  to  Tima,  i.e.  to  the 
commencement  of  Iranian  civilization ;  and  in  fact  is  declared  to  be 
the  cause  of  that  happy  period.  The  Eigveda  also  refers  to  this  high 
antiquity  of  the  Soma  worship,  when  (i.  91,  1)  it  says  of  Soma: 
'  By  thy  guidance,  0  brilliant  (Soma),  our  courageous  fathers  have 
obtained  treasures  among  the  gods.'  Like  Yivanhat,  the  next  wor- 
shippers of  Haoma,  viz.,  Athwya  and  Samanam  Sevishta,  also  obtained 

"  Compare  Spiegel's  translation  of  the  same  passage,  and  its  continuation,  Avesta, 
ii.  68,  ff.  In  note  i  he  remarks  :  "  Haoma,  like  various  other  deities  of  the  Avesta, 
is  regarded  as  at  once  a  personal  god,  and  as  the  thing  on  account  of  which  this  god 
was  imagined.  Haoma  is  at  once  a  Yazata  and  a  drink.  The  original  identity 
of  the  Indian  Soma  with  the  Haoma  of  the  Aresta  has  been  excellently  shown  in 
F.  "Windischmann's  dissertation.  Among  both  nations  the  healing  power  of  the 
Haoma  is  prominently  noticed,  but  among  the  Parsis  it  is  particularly  the  white 
Haoma  which  imparts  immortality.  The  Indian  plant  is  the  asclepias  acida ;  the 
Persian  is  not  determined.  Both  nations  notice  that  the  plant  grew  on  mountains, 
and  originally,  at  least,  it  must  hare  been  the  same  plant  which  both  employed." 

VOL.   II.  31 


474        PEOF.  WHITNEY'S  REMARKS  ON  THE  SUMA-WUKiSHiJ:-. 

offspring, — Thraetaono  and  sons  who  destroyed  the  Atrimanian 
monster.  The  heroic  age  of  the  conflict  of  light  is  thus  referred  back 
to  Haoma,  whilst  in  the  Eigveda  (i.  91,  8),  Soma  is  invoked  to 
'  deliver  from  destruction,  to  suffer  none  of  his  friends  to  perish ;'  and 
(in  verse  15)  to  protect  from  incantations  and  from  sin;  and  in  the 
Samaveda  (Stevenson,  p.  259)  he  is  said  to  drive  away  the  Eakshasas. 

"  It  is  interesting  to  remark,  that  while  Thraetaono  is  said  here  to 
have  been  bestowed  by  Haoma,  the  Samaveda  names  a  Eishi  Trita  as 
an  offerer  of  Soma. 

"  The  fourth  worshipper  of  Haoma  is  Pourusaipa,  the  father  of  Zara- 
thustra:  his  reward  was  the  birth  of  this  illustrious  son,  the  promulgator 
of  the  anti-demonic  doctrine.  Here  also  the  ancient  legend  confirms 
the  priority  of  the  Haoma  worship  to  the  Zoroastrian  reformation. 

"  When  Zarathustra  has  thus  learnt  that  he  owes  his  own  existence 
to  Haoma,  he  celebrates  his  praises  :  and  the  epithets  which  he  here 
applies  to  the  god  agree  in  a  remarkable  way  with  those  of  the  Veda. 
Some  of  these  parallel  epithets  are  hvaresa,  Zend,  =  svarsha,  Sanskrit 
(E.V.  i.  91,  21),  'giving  heaven;'  verethrqfao,  Zend, =vritraha,  Sanskrit 
(R.V.  i.  91,  5),  '  destroyer  of  enemies ; '  huhhratus,  Zend,  =  sukratuh, 
Sanskrit  (E.V.  i.  91,  2),  '  offering  good  sacrifices,'  or  '  wise,'  or  '  strong.' 
The  blessings  supplicated  by  Zarathustra  from  Haoma  also  agree  in 
many  points  with  those  which  the  Vedic  poet  asks  from  Soma." 

It  is  not  necessary,  however,  to  pursue  the  subject  farther.  I  refer 
the  reader,  who  wishes  further  details  of  this  sort,  to  Dr.  Windisch- 
mann's  dissertation  itself. 

I  copy  the  following  remarks  on  the  Soma  worship  from  Mr.  Whit- 
ney's "Main  Eesults  of  the  later  Vedic  Eesearches  in  Germany" 
(Journal  of  the  Amer.  Orient.  Society,  iii.  299,  300).  The  "hymns, 
one  hundred  and  fourteen  in  number  [of  the  9th  book  of  the  Eigveda], 
are,  without  exception,  addressed  to  the  Soma,  and  being  intended  to 
be  sung  while  that  drink  was  expressed  from  the  plant  that  afforded  it, 
and  was  clarified,  are  called  pavamanyas,  '  puriflcational.'  ....  The 
word  soma  means  simply  '  extract '  (from  the  root  su,  to  express, 
extract),  and  is  the  name  of  a  beverage  prepared  from  a  certain  herb, 
the  asclepias  aoida,  which  grows  abundantly  upon  the  mountains  of 
India  and  Persia.  This  plant,  which  by  its  name  should  be  akin  to 
our  common  milk-weed,  furnishes,  like  the  latter,  an  abundant  milky 


ANCIENT  AFFINITIES  OF  THE  IRANIANS  AND  INDIANS.       475 

juice,  -which,  wheii  fermented,  possesses  intoxicating  qualities.      In 
this  circumstance,  it  is  believed,  lies  the  explanation  of  the  whole 
matter.     The  simple-minded  Arian  people,  whose  whole  religion  was 
a  worship  of  the  wonderful  powers  and  phenomena  of  nature,  had  no 
sooner  perceived  that  this  liquid  had  power  to  elevate  the  spirits,  and 
produce  a  temporary  phrenzy,  under  the  influence  of  which  the  in- 
dividual was  prompted  to,   and  capable  of,   deeds  beyond  his  natural 
powers,  than  they  found  in  it  something  divine  ;  it  was,  to  their  appre- 
hension, a  god,  endowing  those  into  whom  it  entered  with  god-like 
powers ;  the  plant  which  afforded  it  became  to  them  the  ting  of  plants ; 
the  process  of  preparing  it  was  a  holy  sacrifice  ;  the  instruments  used 
therefor  were  sacred.     The  high  antiquity  of  this  eultus  is  attested  by 
the  references  to  it  found  occurring  in  the  Persian  Avesta ;  it  seems, 
however,  to  have  received  a  new  impulse  on  Indian  territory,  as  the 
pavamanya  hymns  of  the  Veda  exhibit  it  in  a  truly  remarkable  state 
of  development.     Soma  is  there   addressed  as  a  god  in  the  highest 
strains  of  adulation  and  veneration ;  all  powers  belong  to  him ;  all 
blessings  are  besought  of  him,  as  his  to  bestow.     And  not  only  do  such 
hymns  conipose  one  whole  book  of  the  Eik,  and  occur  scattered  here 
and  there  through  other  portions  of  it,  but  the  most  numerous  single 
passages  and  references  everywhere  appearing,   show  how  closely  it 
had  intertwined  itself  with  the  whole  ritual  of  the  Vedio  religion." 
[See  the  section  on  Soma  in  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work.J 

Lassen  remarks  in  reference  to  the  affinities  of  the  Iranians  and 
Indians  (Ind.  Ant.  1st  ed.,i.  516;  2nd  ed.,  i.  617) :  "  It  should  first  be 
recollected  that  the  Zendavesta  shows  us  the  [Iranian]'  doctrine  not  in 
its  original,  but  in  a  reformed  shape ;  a  distinction  is  made  between  the 
pious  men  who  lived  before  the  proclamation  of  the  law  by  Zoroaster,  and 
the  '  nearest  relations  :'  and  we  may  conclude  that  the  points  wherein 
the  Brahmanical  Indians  and  the  followers  of  Zoroaster  coincide,  belong 
to  the  old,  and  those  in  which  they  differ,  to  the  new,  system.  Of  the 
beings  who  are  the  objects  of  veneration  in  the  Avesta,  it  is  the  seven 
highest,  i.e.  Ahura  Mazda  and  the  Amesha  S'pentas,  who  are  peculiarly 
Iranian ;  their  names  are  unknown  to  the  Brahmans ;  the  Vedas  re- 
cognize no  class  of  seven  divinities  of  the  highest  rank  who  are  of  the 
same  character.  On  the  other  hand,  there  is  no  trace  of  Brahma  among 
the  Iranians.     The  fundamental  principle  of  the  Zend  doctrine,  the 


476       PROP.  COWELL'S  APPENDIX  TO  ELPHINSTONE'S  HISTORY. 

dualistic  separation  of  the  good  and  eTil  principles,  is,  in  like  manner, 
foreign  to  Brahmanism.  But  there  are,  nevertheless,  other  deities, 
who  are  equally  venerated  in  the  Zendavesta  and  the  Veda,  viz.,  fire, 
the  sun,  the  moon,  the  earth,  and  water ;  a  fact  which  indicates  that 
hoth  religions  have  a  common  foundation." 

Lassen  also  treats  of  the  legend  of  Tima,  and  of  other  points  of  con- 
nexion between  the  Indian  and  Iranian  religions,  1st  ed.  i.  pp.  517- 
526,  and  at  greater  length  in  the  2nd  ed.  pp.  619-634;  and  then 
observes :  "  These  common  reminiscences  of  the  Eastern  Iranians, 
and  the  Arian  Indians,  cannot  be  explained  from  any  communications 
such  as  neighbouring  nations  might  make  to  one  another.  On  the 
contrary,  we  perceive  sometimes  a  varying,  sometimes  a  contradictory, 
conception  of  important  traditions  and  appellations,  which  is  only 
intelligible  if  we  presuppose  an  earlier  agreement,  which  had,  in  part, 
become  lost  and  modified  in  the  course  of  time,  after  the  separation  of 
the  two  nations ;  and  in  part  had  become  converted  into  a  contradic- 
tion by  a  division  in  their  opinions.  Even  this  contradiction  indicates 
a  closer  connexion  between  the  two  nations  at  an  earlier  period." 

See  also  Professor  R.  Roth's  articles  in  the  Journal  of  the  Grerman 
Oriental  Society,  for  1848  (pp.  216,  ff.),  1850  (pp.  417,  ff.),  and  1852 
(pp.  67,  flf.),  on  the  legends  of  Feridun  and  Jemshid,  and  on  the 
"highest  gods  of  the  Arian  nations ;"  and  also  his  paper  on  Nabanaz- 
dista,  at  p.  243  of  the  last-named  volume  ;  as  well  as  Spiegel's  paper 
in  Indische  Studien,  iii.  448.  In  the  vol.  of  the  Journal  of  the  Germ. 
Or.  Society  for  1848,  p.  216,  Roth  proposes  to  show  by  an  example, 
"how  the  Veda  and  the  Avesta  flow  from  one  fountain,  like  two 
streams,  the  one  of  which,  the  Vedic,  has  continued  fuller,  purer,  and 
truer  to  its  original  character ;  while  the  other  has  become  in  many 
ways  polluted,  has  changed  its  original  course,  and  consequently  cannot 
always  be  followed  back  with  equal  certainty  to  its  sources."  See 
also  Professor  Miiller's  "Last  Results  of  the  Persian  Researches," 
reprinted  in  "  Chips,"  i.  81,  ff. 


SrOTE  G.—Page  306. 
Professor  Cowell,  editor  of  the  fifth  edition  of  the  History  of  India 
(1866),  has  some  remarks  on  this  conclusion  of  Mr.  Elphinstone  in  an 
additional  Appendix,  no.  viii.,  pp.  284,  ff.     He  there  gives  a  summary 


WHEN  DID  THE  lEANIANS  AND  INDIANS  SEPARATE?       477 

of  the  circTimstances  which  lead  to  the  helief  that  the  Indians  were 
immigrants  from  without,  as  the  most  probable  inference  from  the 
premises.  He  alludes  first  to  "  the  fact  of  a  connexion  between  the 
original  Sanskrit-speaMng  tribes  and  the  other  nations  of  Western 
Asia  and  Europe,  as  proved  by  the  common  origin  of  their  respective 
languages,"  as  admitted  by  Mr.  Elphinstone,  and  then  proceeds :  "It 
is  perhaps  going  too  far  to  assert  that  this  connexion  is  thus  proved 
to  be  one  of  race ;  at  any  rate,  this  is  a  question  which  belongs  to 
physical  science  rather  than  to  history.  It  is  enough  for  the  historian 
if  it  is  granted  that  in  some  remote  prehistoric  time  the  ancestors  of 
these  various  tribes  were  living  in.  close  political  relation  to  each 
other;  and  the  similarity  which  we  find  in  their  languages  must  un- 
doubtedly prove  this,  even  although  the  problem  of  race  should  remain 
as  unsettled  a  question  as  before."  Compare  Mr.  Geldart's  remarks 
in  note  D,  above,  pp.  467,  468. 

Professor  Cowell  allows  that  "this  similarity  and  linguistic  sympathy 
proves  only  the  fact  of  a  connexion ;  but  they  '  prove  nothing  regard- 
ing the  place  where  it  subsisted,  nor  about  the  time,'  [Elphinstone] ; 
but''  (he  adds)  "perhaps  the  following  considerations  may  throw  some 
light  on  this  further  question,"  and  then  goes  on  to  say  that  "  a  central 
home  once  occupied  by  the  ancestors  of  these  now  widely  scattered 
nations  seems  prima  facie  more  probable  than  to  suppose  that  they 
emigrated  from  the  furthest  extremity  of  the  liue  as  India."  He  then 
states  the  considerations  which  confirm  this  view. 


NOTE  R.—Page  316. 
"  The  question  regarding  the  time  and  place  of  the  separation  is  of 
yet  greater  importance  than  that  concerniag  its  cause.  For  our  present 
inquiry,  it  is  of  less  consequence  to  determine  the  place,  than  the  time, 
of  that  separation.  As  regards  the  region  where  the  Indians  and 
Iranian-i  dwelt  together,  several  suppositions  may  be  made.  The 
Iranians  may  have  immigrated  into  the  Panjab  along  with  the  Indians, 
and  have  turned  thence  ia  a  westerly  direction.  But,  on  the  other 
hand,  the  Indians  might  have  separated  themselves  from  the  Iranians, 
and  travelled  towards  the  east.  Thirdly,  it  might  be  conjectured  that 
the  two  races  had  parted  from  each  other  before  they  migrated  towards 
India  and  Iran.    Be  this  as  it  may,  though  we  are  unable  to  assign 


478        WHY  DID  THE  IRANIANS  AND  INDIANS  SEPAEATE? 

any  date  to  the  period  of  the  separation,  we  must  decidedly  hold  it  to 
have  occurred  before  the  Vedic  era.  Ko  such  relation  exists  between 
the  two  races  as  would  justify  us  in  assuming  that  the  Iranians  formed 
one  community  with  the  Indians  during  the  Vedic  period.  The  great 
majority  of  the  Vedic  gods  and  of  the  Vedic  conceptions  are  as  HttlB 
known  to  the  Iranians,  as  the  Iranian  conceptions  are  to  the  Indians. 
The  ideas  which  are  common  to  both  nations  may  be  most  easily  and 
satisfactorily  explained  by  supposing  them  to  have  been  developed  in 
the  ante- Vedic  period."  Spiegel,  in  Euhn  and  Schleicher's  Beitrage 
zur  vergl.  Sprachf.  vol  ii.  pp.  3,  4. 


NOTE  I.— Page  316- 

"  It  is  the  common  view  that  it  was  religious  grounds  which  oc- 
casioned the  separation  of  the  Indians  and  Iranians.  This  opinion  is 
supported  by  the  fact  that  the  names  of  several  divinities  which  have 
a  good  signification  among  the  one  people,  axe  used  in  a  bad  sense  by 
the  other,  and  vice  versa.  Thus  the  Indian  deva  (god),  has  become 
a  demon  among  the  Iranians  under  the  form  of  daeva;  and  Indra  as 
Aiidra  has  experienced  a  similar  degradation.  It  must  not  be  denied 
that  these  diiferenoes  of  conception  may  have  had  their  foundation  in 
a  religious  schism  between  the  two  nations ;  but  this  opinion  should 
not  be  regarded  as  more  than  a  probable  conjecture,  or  held  to  be  an 
historical  fact,  which  follows  from  the  linguistic  data  with  the  same 
certainty  as  the  proposition  that  the  Indian  and  Iranian  nations  had 
originally  the  same  common  ancestors.  Other  possible  modes  may  be 
conceived,  in  which  this  opposition  may  have  arisen ;  such  as  the 
internal  development  of  the  Iranian  people  itself.  Vi^e  have  only  to 
reflect  on  the  case  of  the  German  religions,  and  their  ancient  gods, 
who,  in  presence  of  Christianity,  came  to  be  regarded  as  evil  spirits. 
Dualism,  with  its  rigorous  consequences,  was  a  power  which  operated 
in  Iran  in  precisely  the  same  manner  as  Christianity  did  in  Germany. 
This  dualism,  which  was  a  result  of  the  particular  development  of  the 
Iranian  people,  was  compelled  to  make  room  in  its  system,  in  the  best 
way  it  could,  for  those  forms  of  religious  belief  which  it  found  already 
in  existence,  and  did  not  feel  itself  strong  enough  to  discard.  Many 
beings  formerly  regarded  as  gods  may  thus  have  been  transformed  into 


PTOLEMY'S  NOTICES  OP  OTTOROCOEEA.  479 

evil  spirits,  because  they  stood  in  too  strong  a  contrast  to  the  new 
moral  system.  It  appears  to  me  that  the  opposition  between  the 
religious  conceptions  of  the  Indians  and  the  Iranians  grew  up  gradually, 
and  not  all  at  once,  in  consequence  of  a  reform  of  Zarathustra,  as  some 
have  assumed."  Spiegel,  as  above,  p.  3.  On  Aiidra  see  the  5th  vol.  of 
this  work,  p.  121,  and  note  212  there. 


NOTE  Z.—Page  327. 

Ptolemy,  Geogr.  vi.  16,  has  the  following  notice  of  Ottorocorra  : — 

'  Opr]  Be  Bii^coKev  Tr)v  ^rjpiKfjv,  to,  re  Kokovfieva  "Avvi^a,  k.  r.  \. 
"The  country  of  Serica  is  surrounded  by  mountain  ranges,"  viz.,  the 
Annibian,  the  Auxacian,  the  Asmirsean,  the  Casian,  the  Thagurian, 
and  that  of  Emodus. 

Kal  TO  Kokoi/Mevov  '  OTTopoK6ppa<;,  oil  ra  iripara  hri'^ei  fioipcK 
p^d  TuTT  Koi  poa-T  "KB.  "[Another  of  these  ranges]  is  that  called 
Ottorocorras,  the  limits  of  which  extend  from  169°  36'  to  176°  39' 
east  longitude." 

Ta  fiev  ovv  apKriKmrepa  tt}?  SrjpiKrj^  KaTavepx)VTai  eOvq  ''Av- 
6poyiro(j}wy&v.  "  The  northern  parts  of  Serica  are  inhabited  by  the 
tribes  of  the  Anthropophagi  "  (men-eaters).  The  Annibi,  Sizyges,  etc. 
follow. 

Km  fiea-Tjfi^pivdoraTot  iraph  to,  'HpMSa  Kol  "Sifipi-Ka  opti  'Otto- 
poKoppai.  "  And  southernmost  of  all,  near  the  Emodian  and  Serican 
mountains,  dwell  the  Ottorocorrae." 

Among  the  cities  of  Serica  is  mentioned  Ottorocorra,  in  east  lon- 
gitude 165°  37'  15". 

Ottorocora  is  again  alluded  to  by  Ptolemy  in  book  viii.,  in  his 
remarks  on  the  eighth  map  of  Asia : — 

'H  'OrropoKopa  ttjv  /Meyb(7Tr]v  ^fiepav  ej^et  mp&v  iSyo  eyytara- 
Kal  SteaTTjKev  'AXe^avSpeia^  Trpo?  em  &pai<;  eiTTd.  "  The  greatest 
length  of  the  day  in  Ottorocora  is  nearly  14f  hours.  It  is  distant 
from  Alexandria  seven  hours  towards  the  east." 

See,  for  an  account  of  Ptolemy's  geographical  system,  Lassen's  Ind. 
Ant.  iii.  94,  ff. ;  and  for  the  position  of  Ottorocorra,  the  map  at  the 
end  of  the  same  volume. 


480        LASSEN  ON  THE  OEIGINAL  ABODES  OF  THE  AEIANS. 

NOTE  ^.—Page  334. 
In  regard  to  Airyanem  Vaejo,  Lassen  observes  (Ind.  Ant.  1st  ed., 
i.,  p.  526,  ff. ;  2nd  ed.  p.  634,  ff.):  "If  we  assume  that  the  Arian 
Indians  and  the  Iranians  had  originally  the  same  common  abodes, 
out  of  India,  we  should  expect  to  find  a  tradition  on  the  subject 
among  the  latter  people  rather  than  among  the  former.  "We  have 
already  said  that  the  Indians  have  no  longer  any  legend  of  this 
sort,  though  they  imagine  a  sacred  region  and  the  seats  of  the  gods 
to  exist  to  the  north  of  India."  The  Iranians,  on  the  contrary,  clearly 
designate  Airyanem  Vaejo  as  the  first  created  country  :  this  they  place 
in  the  extreme  east  of  the  Iranian  highlands,  in  the  region  where  the 
Oxus  and  Taxartes  take  their  rise.  This  country  was  afflicted  with 
winter  by  Ahriman,  and  had  only  two  months  of  summer,  as  if 
the  tradition  of  a  decrease  in  the  earth's  temperature  stUl  floated 
in  the  legend.  "We  must  suppose  the  cold  highlands  on  the 
western  slopes  of  Belurtag  and  Mnstag  to  be  meant,"  etc.  [The 
next  paragraph  wiU  be  quoted  in  Note  M.]  The  following  remarks 
are  added:  "It  suffices  to  have  made  it  probable  that  the  earliest 
abodes  of  the  Indians  and  Iranians  are  to  be  sought  in  the  extreme 
east  of  the  Iranian  highlands ;  but  we  may  assert  it  to  be  more  than 
probable  that  the  Indians  were  derived  from  some  part  of  the  Iranian 

1'  Lassen's  idea,  quoted  in  p.  337,  that  the  "  daUy  prospect  of  the  snowy  summits 
of  the  Himalaya,  glittering  far  and  wide  over  the  plains,"  and  the  knowledge  the 
Indians  had  of  the  "  table-land  beyond,  with  its  extensive  and  tranquil  domains,  its 
clear  and  cloudless  sky,"  etc.,  would  point  out  the  "north  as  the  abode  of  the  gods, 
and  the  theatre  of  wonders,"  is  confirmed  by  Homer's  description  of  Olympus,  Odyss. 
vi.  42,  ff.  :— 

OJ'A.v/tTrtJi'S*,  501  ^atrX  6eay  eSos  &.ffipa\es  aiel 

''Efifievaf  oir*  &v4fwtiri  rivcuro'erai,  oSre  -Trot*  Sfi^pcp 

Aeierat,  oilre  X'^^  iirnriKifaTcu'  &XA&  fjidh*  dXBpt] 

neirraTot  hv4tpe\os,  \ei/K^  5'  iiriBeSpofxev  of-yXT^. 

"  Olympus,  where  they  say  the  blessed  gods 

Eepose  for  ever  in  secure  abodes  : 

No  stormy  blasts  athwart  those  summits  sweep, 

No  showers  or  snows  bedew  the  sacred  steep ; 

£ut  cloudless  skies  serene  above  are  spread. 

And  golden  radiance  plays  around  its  head." 
This,  however,  is  the  ideal  Olympus.  The  mountain  is  styled  iyiumpos,  "snowy," 
in  niad  i.  420,  where  the  scholiast  explains  the  discrepancy  by  saying  that  the 
epithet  "  snowy "  applies  only  to  the  parts  below  the  clouds,  the  summits  being 
above  the  clouds,  and  exempt  from  rain  or  snow. 


BUNSEK  ON  THE  FIEST  FAEGARD  OF  THE  VENDIDAD.      .  481 

country The  means  of  arriving  at  a  conclusion  on  this  sub- 
ject are  uncertain ;  we  can  only  form  conjectures  from  a  review  of  the 
later  geographical  positions  occupied  by  these  nations;  and  we  are 
thus  led  to  fix  on  the  country  lying  between  the  Caspian  sea  and 
the  highlands  before  mentioned,  as  having  been  most  probably  their 
ancient  seats." 

See  also  Ariana  Antiqua,  p.  134,  quoted  in  Note  M. 

Baron  von  Bunsen  also  treats  of  the  First  Pargard  of  the  Vendidad 
in  one  of  the  Appendices  to  his  Bibel-werk,  vol.  v.  pp.  315,  316.  I 
abstract  the  following  remarks : — "  The  sacred  books  of  Zoroaster's 
followers  begin  with  a  description  of  the  gradual  diffusion  of  the  Arian 
races  of  Bactria,  as  far  as  the  Penjab.  The  account  of  these  migrations 
of  the  Bactrian  Arians  is  preceded  by  a  remarkable  reference  to  the 
primeval  country  in  the  north-east,  from  which  their  forefathers  re- 
moved to  their  present  abodes,  in  consequence  of  a  great  natural  con- 
vulsion. It  appears  that  that  once  perfect  primeval  country,  Airyana, 
had  originally  a  very  mild  climate,  until  the  hostile  deity  created  a 
powerful  serpent,  and  snow ;  so  that  only  two  months  of  summer  re- 
mained, while  winter  prevailed  during  ten.  The  country  next  oc- 
cupied was  Sogdiana ;  and  the  third  Bactria.  The  progress  of  the 
Arians  with  their  civilization  is,  as  it  were,  the  march  of  Ahura  Mazda, 
the  lord  of  spirits.  This  advance  has  an  historical  import,  for  all  the 
countries  which  are  specified  form  a  continuous  series,  extending 
towards  the  south  and  west,  and  in  all  of  them  the  Arian  culture  is 
discoverable,  and  even  now  (in  part  exclusively)  predominant.  The 
first-named  coxmtry  can  be  no  other  than  that  where  the  Oxus  and 
Taxartes  take  their  rise;  the  table-land  of  Pamer,  and  Ehokand. 
Assuming  the  genuineness  and  antiquity  of  the  Bacfaian  tradition,  we 
have  here  a  testimony,  deserving  of  the  highest  consideration,  to  the 
historical  character  of  the  Biblical  tradition  regarding  the  interruption 
of  the  life  of  the  Asiatic  population  by  a  great  natural  convulsion  con- 
fined to  this  locality.  The  country  lying  between  the  highlands  just 
mentioned  to  the  east,  and  the  mountains  of  Caucasus  and  Ararat  to 
the  west,  with  the  Caspian  Sea  in  its  centre,  is  regarded  by  scientific 
geologiBts,  such  as  Humboldt  and  Murchison,  as  the  very  region  where 
the  most  recent  convulsions  of  nature  have  occurred.  The  snow  and 
the  prolonged  winter  alluded  to  in  the  oldest  Arian  tradition  must 
have  been  the  result  of  an  upheaving  of  the  land  into  mountains." 


482  THE  BAHIKAS,  GANDHAEAS,  ETC.,  AS  DESCRIBED 

NOTE  L.—Page  354. 

In  the  Asiatic  Eesearctes,  vol.  xv.  108,  Professor  H.  H.  Wilson 
translates  parts  of  a  long  passage  in  the  Karna  Parva,  or  viii*''  book  of 
the  Mahabh.,  verses  2025,  ff.,  in  which  the  manners  of  the  Bahlkas, 
Madras,  Gandharas,  Arattas,  and  other  tribes  of  the  Panjab  are  stig- 
matized as  disgraceful.  The  same  text  is  quoted  and  translated  in  the 
appendix  to  M.  Troyer's  Kajatarangini,  vol.  ii.  pp.  549,  ff.  I  will 
cite  a  few  specimens  from  this  passage.  The  country  where  the 
Bahlkas  dwell  is  thus  defined  (verses  2029,  ff.)  ;  VaUshkritah  Eima- 
vata  Gangaya  eha  vaMshkritah  \  Sarasvatya  Yamunaya  Kwruhhetrena 
oMpi  ye  \  Panchanam  Sindhu-shashtanafh  nadinam  ye'antara§ritdh  \ 
Tan  dharmavdhydn  asucMn  Bdhihdn  parivwrjayet  \  "Let  every  one 
avoid  those  impure  Bahlkas,  who  are  outcasts"  from  righteousness, 
who  are  shut  out  by  the  Himavat,  the  Ganga,  the  SarasvatI,  the 
Yamuna,  and  Kurukshetra,  and  who  dwell  between  the  five  rivers 
which  are  associated  with  the  Sindhu  (Indus),  as  the  sixth." 

Their  women  are  thus  described  (v.  2035)  :  Gdyanty  athacha 
nrityanti  striyo  mattdh  vivdsasah  |  Nagwrdgdra-vapreshu  vahir  mdl- 
ydnulepandh,  etc.  "  The  women,  driink  and  undressed,  wearing  gar- 
lands, and  perfumed  with  unguents,  sing  and  dance  in  public  places, 
and  on  the  ramparts  of  the  town,"  etc. ;  with  much  more  to  the  same 
effect. 

Again  (v.  2063,  ff.) :  Panohanadyo  vahanty  etdh  yatra  nissritya 
parvatdt  \  Arattdh  ndma  Bahikah  na  teshv  Aryo  dvyaham  vaset  |  (v. 
2068,  ff.)  Arattdh  ndma  te  deidh  Bahlkam  ndma  tajjalam  \  Brdhmand- 
pasaddh  yatra  tulyakdldh  Prcydpateh  \  Vedo  na  teshdm  vedyancha  yajno 
yajanam  eva  cha  \  Vrdtydndm  ddsamiydndm  annam  devdh  na  hhtmjate  \ 
Prasthaldh  Madra-Gdndhdrdh  Arattdh  ndmatah  Khasdh  \  Vasati- 
Sindhusauvtrdh  iti prdyo  'tikutsitdh  \  "In  the  region  where  these  five 
rivers  flow  after  issuing  from  the  mountains  dweU  the  Bahikas,  called 
Arattas ;  let  no  Arya  dweU  there  even  for  two  days.  .  .  .  The  name 

^'  These  expressions,  "  dliarma-i;a%o«"  and  "  tiaAisA-kptati,"  seem  to  contain  a 
play  on  the  name  of  the  Bahtkas.  This  tribe  is  mentioned  in  the  S'.  P.  Br.  i.  7,  3, 
8,  quoted  above,  p.  202 ;  where  it  is  said  that  they  gave  to  Agni  the  name  of  Bhava. 
This  reference  to  their  recognition  of  one  of  the  Indian  gods,  without  any  deprecia- 
tory allusion  to  their  manners,  may  perhaps  be  held  to  indicate  that  the  author  of 
the  Brahmana  did  not  hold  them  in  such  low  esteem  as  the  speaker  in  the  Jlaha- 
bharata.     See  also  the  quotations  frdm  Panini  in  note  142,  p.  354. 


IN  THE  MAHABHARATA  AND  EAJATAEANGINI.  483 

of  the  country  is  Aratta ;  the  water  of  it  is  called  Bahika.  There 
dwell  degraded  Brahmans,  contemporary  with  Prajapati.  They  have 
no  Veda,  no  Vedio  ceremony,  nor  any  sacrifice.  The  gods  do  not  eat 
the  food  offered  by  Vratyas  and  servile  people.  The  Prasthalas, 
Madras,  Gandharas,  Arattas,  Khasas,  Vasatis,  and  Sindhusauviras  are 
nearly  all  very  contemptible."  Again  it  is  said  of  the  same  country 
(v.  2076,  ff.)  Tatra  vai  Brdhnano  hhutva  tato  hhavati  Kshatriyah  \ 
Yodsyal}  Sud/raicha  BaMkas  tato  Iha/oati  napitah  \  Napittdcha  tato 
hhutva  punmr  hhawati  Brahmamh  \  Bvyo  hhutva,  eha  tatraiva  punwr 
daso  'bhij'dyate  \  Bhmaty  ekah  kule  viprah  prasrishtah  kdmacharinah  \ 
Gandhdrdh  Mad/rakaschaiva  Bahikaichalpachetaaah.  "  There  a  Bahika, 
born  a  Brahman,  becomes  afterwards  a  Kshatriya,  a  Vai^ya,  or  a 
S'udra,  and  eventually  a  barber.  And  again  the  barber  becomes  a  Brah- 
man. And  once  again  the  Brahman  there  is  bom  a  slave.  One  Brah- 
man alone  is  born  in  a  family  among  the  senseless  Gandharas,  Madras, 
and  Bahlkas ;  the  [other  brothers]  act  as  they  will  without  restraint." 

In  the  Kajataranginl,  i.  307,  ff.,  the  Gandhara  Brahmans  are  thus 
characterized: — Agraharan  jagrihire  Qandhdra-hrahmanaa  tatah  \ 
samdna-illda  taayaiva  dhruvam,  te  'pi  dvijddhamdh  |  Bhagim-varga- 
sanibhoga-nirlajjdh  Mlechha-vamiajdh  \  Snuskd-sangati-saktdicha  dara- 
dd^  santi  pdpinah  \  Vastubhdvms  tathd  hhdtya  hhdryyd-vikraya- 
karinah  \  paropahhogitds  tmhdm  mrla^'ds  tmrhi  yoihitah  \  "  Then 
the  Gandhara  Brahmans  seized  upon  rent-free  lands ;  for  these  most 
degraded  of  priests  were  of  the  same  disposition  as  that  [tyrannical 
prince.]  These  sinners,  sprung  from  Mlechhas,  are  so  shameless  as  to 
corrupt  their  own  sisters  and  daughters-in-law,  and  to  offer  their  wives 
to  others,  hiring  and  seUing  them,  like  commodities,  for  money.  Their 
women  being  thus  given  up  to  strangers,  are  consequently  shameless." 

M.  Troyer  remarks  (vol.  ii.  317)  that  "  the  inhabitants  of  the  Panjab 
are  in  this  passage  of  the  Mahabh.  named  generally  Bahikas  and  Arattas, 
while  the  Gandharas  are  associated  with  the  different  tribes  into  which 
these  inhabitants  are  subdivided,  such  as  the  Prasthalas  and  Madras, 
in  such  a  way  that  it  can  scarcely  be  doubted  that  the  former  (the 
Gandharas)  lived  in  their  neighbourhood,  diffused  like  them  between 
the  six  rivers  of  that  country,  .  .  The  Sindhu-Gandharas  mentioned, 
Kaj.  i.  66,  lived  on  the  Indus." 

And  Wilson  says  (As.  Ees.  xv.  105) :  "According  to  the  Mahabh. 


484  OEIGINAL  SEATS  OF  THE  IRANIANS  AND  INDIANS. 

the  Gandhari  are  not  only  met  with  upon  crossing  the  Setlej  and  pro- 
ceeding towards  the  AiravatI  (Ravi),  or  where  Strabo  places  Gandaris, 
but  they  are  scattered  along  with  other  tribes  throughout  the  Panjab, 
as  far  as  to  the  Indus,  when  we  approach  Gandaritis.  According  also 
to  our  text  (Raj.  i.  66)  one  body  of  the  Gandhari  appear  to  occupy  a 
division  of  their  own  on  the  last  river,  which  is  named  after  that  very 
circumstance,  Sindhu-Gandhar,  and  these  may  have  extended  west- 
ward as  far  as  the  modern  Candahar."  In  his  Vishnu-Pur.,  Ist  ed., 
p.  191,  note  83,  the  same  writer  says  of  the  Gandharas:  "These  are 
also  a  people  of  the  north-west,  found  both  on  the  west  of  the  Indus, 
and  in  the  Panjab,  and  well  known  to  classical  authors  as  the  Gandarii 
and  Gandaridse."     See  also  EawHnson's  Herodotus,  iy.  pp.  216,  217. 


NOTE  T£.—Page  356. 

Lassen,  Ind.  Ant.  i.  527,  remarks  as  follows :  "  The  opinion  that 
the  original  seats  of  these  [the  Indian  and  Iranian]  nations  are  to  be 
sought  here  in  [the  extreme  east  of  the  Iranian  highlands],  receives 
great  confirmation  from  the  fact,  that  we  find  branches  of  these  nations 
on  both  sides  of  this  lofty  range  ;  for  the  ancient  inhabitants  of  Casghar, 
Tarkhand,  Khoten,  Aksu,  Turfan,  and  KhamU  are  Tajiks  and  speak 
Persian  ;  it  is  from  this  point  only  that  they  are  diffused  towards  the 
interior  of  upland  Asia :  so  that  their  most  powerful  germ  seems  to 
have  been  planted  on  this  range." 

And  Professor  H.  H.  WUson  says:  "Without  extending  the  limits 
of  India,  however,  too  far  to  the  north,  there  is  no  reason  to  doubt 
that  the  valleys  of  the  Indian  Caucasus  were  properly  included  within 
them,  and  that  their  inhabitants,  as  far  as  to  the  Pamer  mountains  and 
Badakhshan,  were  Indians,  who  may  have  been  at  first  tributary  to 
Persia,  and  afterwards  subjects  of  some  branches  of  the  Greek  race  of 
Bactrian  kings." — Ariana  Antiqua,  p.  134. 

Badakhshan  is  the  country  on  the  banks  of  the  Oxus  near  its  sources, 
situated  between  lat.  36°  and  38°  north,  and  lying  eastward  from 
Balkh.  Pamer  lies  in  the  same  direction.  See  the  map  in  Ariana 
Ant.  p.  214,  or  that  of  Ancient  India  in  Lassen's  Ind.  Ant.,  vol.  ii. 


■WHETHER  ALL  THE  NON-ARIAN  INDIANS  ARE  OF  ONE  RACE.     485 

NOTE  'Si.— Page  396,  note  83,  line  6. 

The  passage  of  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana  here  referred  to  is  as  follows : 
xiii.  8,  1,5:  Chatussrakti  \  devds  cha  asurai  cha  uhhaye  prdjapatydh 
dihsho  aspardhanta  \  te  devah  asman  sapatndn  hhrdtrivyan  dighhyo 
'mcdanta  \  te  'dikkdh  pardhhavan  \  tasmdd  yah  daivyah  praj'di  chatus- 
sraktlni  tdh  smaSdndni  kitrvate  \  atha  yah  asuryah  praohyas  tvad  ye 
tvat  parimandaldni  \  te'nudanta  hy  endn  Mghhyah.  "Four-cornered. 
The  gods  and  Asuras,  both  the  offspring  of  Prajapati,  contended  in  the 
regions.  The  gods  expelled  the  Asuras,  their  rivals  and  enemies,  from 
the  regions"  [conceived,  apparently,  as  square,  or  angular].  "They, 
being  regionless,  were  overcome.  Hence,  the  people  who  are  divine 
construct  their  graves  four-cornered ;  whilst  the  Eastern  people,  who 
are  akin  to  the  Asuras,  construct  them  round.  For  the  gods  drove 
the  Asuras  from  the  regions." 


NOTE  O.—Page  443. 

A  question  of  considerable  interest  here  presents  itself,  on  which  it 
may  be  desirable  to  make  a  few  remarks,  viz.,  whether  the  indigenous 
or  non-Arian  races,  who  now  speak  Tamil,  and  the  other  languages  of 
the  southern  group,  are  of  the  same  family  as  those  tribes  who  were 
brought  into  contact  with  the  Aryas  on  their  first  arrival  in  India, 
and  the  remains  of  whose  languages  have  survived  in  the  vernacular 
dialects  of  northern  Hindustan.  The  late  Eev.  Dr.  J.  Stevenson 
appears  to  have  been  of  opinion  that  the  non-Sanskrit  element  in  the 
northern  and  southern  vernacular  dialects  was  originally  to  a  great 
extent  the  same,  and  that  the  people  who  spoke  them  also  belonged  to 
one  race.  He  remarks  (Art.  vii.,  Journ.  Bombay  Branch  Eoyal  As. 
Sec,  No.  XII.  for  1849),  "  It  is  usually  taken  also  for  granted  that 
between  the  non-Sanskrit  parts  of  the  northern  and  southern  families 
of  languages  there  is  no  bond  of  union,  and  that  the  only  connecting 
link  between  the  two  is  their  Sanskrit  element.  It  is  to  this  last 
proposition  that  the  writer  of  this  paper  demurs."  He  afterwards 
proceeds :  "  The  theory  which  has  suggested  itself  to  the  writer  as 
the  most  probable  is,  that  on  the  entrance  of  the  tribes  which  now 
form  the  highest  castes,   those  of  the   Brahmans,   Eshattriyas  and 


486      WHETHER  THE  NORTHERN  AND  SOUTHERN  NON-ARIAN 

"Waisyas,  into  India,  they  found  a  rude  aboriginal  population,  speaking 
a  different  language,  having  a  different  religion,  and  different  customs 
and  manners ;  that  by  arms  and  policy  the  original  inhabitants  were  all 
subdued,  and  in  great  numbers  expelled  from  the  northern  regions, 
those  that  remained  mixing  with  the  new  population,  and  being  first 
their  slaves,  and  then  forming  the  Sudra  caste.  The  language  of 
these  aborigines  is  supposed  to  have  belonged  to  the  southern  family  of 
languages,  the  most  perfect  remaining  type  of  which  family  is  the 
Tamil."  The  fundamental  affinities  of  the  northern  and  southern 
languages  are  then  discussed  by  Dr.  Stevenson  in  various  papers  in 
the  same  journal,  which  appeared  in  the  years  1851  and  1852.  Dr. 
Caldwell,  however,  has  expressed  his  dissent  from  Dr.  Stevenson, 
both  in  regard  to  the  affinities  between  the  pre-Aryan  races  them- 
selves of  the  north  and  of  the  south,  and  their  original  languages. 
(See  pp.  38,  ff.  and  69,  ff.  of  his  Dravidian  Grammar).  In  regard  to 
the  languages  he  remarks  (p.  39,  ff.)  that  the  hjrpothesis  of  their 
affinity  does  not  appear  to  him  to  have  been  established;  as  though 
various  analogies  in  grammatical  structure  seem  to  connect  the  non- 
Sanskrit  element  in  the  north  Indian  idioms  with  the  Scythian  or 
Tartar  tongues,  yet  that  no  special  relationship  of  the  former  to  the 
Dravidian  languages  has  yet  been  proved  to  exist.  If  the  non- 
Sanskrit  element  in  the  northern  vernaculars  (p.  40)  had  been 
Dravidian,  we  might  have  expected  to  find  in  their  vocabularies  a  few 
primary  Dravidian  roots  such  as  the  words  for  head,  hand,  foot,  eye, 
ear ;  whereas  Dr.  Caldwell  has  been  unable  to  discover  any  trust- 
worthy analogy  in  words  belonging  to  this  class.  Further  research, 
he  adds  (p.  42),  may  possibly  disclose  the  existence  in  the  northern 
vernaculars  of  distinctively  Dravidian  forms  and  roots,  but  their 
presence  does  not  yet  appear  to  be  proved  ;  and  he  therefore  concludes 
that  the  non-Sanskrit  portion  of  the  northern  languages  cannot  safely 
be  placed  in  the  same  class  with  the  southern,  except,  perhaps,  in  the 
sense  of  both  being  Scythian  rather  than  Arian.  The  same  is  the 
opinion  of  the  Rev.  Dr.  J.  Wilson,  who  in  his  "Notes  on  the  Marathi 
Language,"  in  the  preface  to  the  second  edition  of  Molesworth's 
Marathi  Dictionary  (p.  xxii),  thus  writes: — "The  Scythian  words  in 
the  Marathi  are,  in  general,  like  those  of  the  other  Turanian  tongues, 
more  in  their  forms  than  in  their  sounds.     They  differ  very  much 


LANGUAGES  ANB  TRIBES  ARE  OE  ONE  STOCK.  487 

from  the  vocables  of  tte  Turanian  languages  in  the  south  of  India 
(the  Canarese,  Telugu,  Tamul,  and  Malayalam),  the  comparison  of  the 
dictionaries  and  grammars  of  which  throws  hut  little  light  on  the 
Marathi;  and  though  they  may  be  classed  in  the  same  tribe  of 
languages,  they  evidently  belong  to  a  different  family,  to  a  different 
Turanian  immigration  into  India,  y^t  to  he  explored  by  the  combined 
labours  of  the  philologist  and  the  ethnographer."  Kegarding  the 
question  whether  the  non-Arian  tribes  of  the  north  and  the  south 
are  themselves  of  the  same  stock,  Dr.  Caldwell  remarks  (p.  72)  that 
the  Dravidians  may  be  confidently  regarded  as  the  earliest  inhabi- 
tants of  India,  or  at  least  as  the  earliest  that  entered  from  the 
north-west,  but  it  is  not  so  easy  to  determine  whether  they  are  the 
people  whom  the  Arians  found  in  possession,  or  whether  they  had 
been  already  expelled  from  the  north  by  the  irruption  of  another 
Scythian  race.  Without  deciding  this  point  positively,  Dr.  Caldwell 
is  led  by  the  apparent  differences  between  the  Dravidian  languages 
and  the  aboriginal  element  in  the  northern  vernaculars,  to  incline  to 
the  supposition  that  the  Dravidian  idioms  belong  to  an  older  stage 
of  Scythian  speech ;  and  if  this  view  be  correct,  it  seems  to  follow 
that  the  ancestors  of  the  Scythian  or  non-Arian  portion  of  the 
north  Indian,  population  must  have  immigrated  into  India  at  a  later 
period  than  the  Dravidians,  and  must  have  expelled  the  Dravidians 
from  the  greater  portion  of  north  India  before  they  were  themselves 
subjugated  by  a  new  race  of  Arian  invaders  from  the  north-west. 
In  any  case  Dr.  Caldwell  is  persuaded  that  it  was  not  by  the  Arians 
that  the  Dravidians  were  expelled  from  northern  India,  and  that, 
as  no  reference  occurs  either  in  Sanskrit  or  Dravidian  tradition  to 
any  hostilities  between  these  two  races,  their  primitive  relations 
could  never  have  been  otherwise  than  amicable.  The  pre-Arian 
Scythians,  by  whom  Dr.  Caldwell  supposes  that  the  Dravidians  may 
have  been  expelled  from  the  northern  provinces,  are  not,  he  con- 
siders, to  be  confounded  with  the  Kolas,  Santhals,  Bhills,  Doms,  and 
other  aboriginal  tribes  of  the  north,  who,  he  supposes,  may  have 
retired  into  the  forests  before  the  Dravidians,  or,  like  the  Bhotan 
tribes,  have  entered  into  India  from  the  north-east.  The  languages 
of  these  forest  tribes  Dr.  Caldwell  conceives  to  exhibit  no  affinity 
with  the  aboriginal   element  in  the  north-Indian   vernaculars.     We 


488  DIFFEEENT  STEATA  OF  INDIAN  POPULATION. 

have  therefore,  according  to  the  views  just  summarily  expounded, 
four  separate  strata,  so  to  speak,  of  population  in  India : 

First  and  earliest,  the  forest-tribes,  such  as  the  Kolas,  Santhals, 
Bhills,  etc.,  etc.,  who  may  have  entered  India  from  the  north-east. 

Second.  The  Dravidians,  who  entered  India  from  the  north-west, 
and  either  advanced  voluntarily  towards  their  ultimate  seats  in  the  • 
south  of  the  peninsula,  or  were  driven  by  the  pressure  of  subsequent 
hordes,  following  them  from  the  same  direction. 

Third.  We  have  the  race  (alluded  to  at  the  end  of  the  preceding 
head,  No.  2)  of  Scythian  or  non-Arian  immigrants  from  the  north- 
west, whose  language  afterwards  united  with  the  Sanskrit  to  form 
the  Prakrit  dialects  of  northern  India. 

Fourth.  The  Arian  invaders  who  (after  separating  first  from  the 
other  branches  of  the  Indo-Germanic  stock,  and  last  of  aU  from  the 
Persian  branch  of  that  family)  advanced  into  India,  drove  before 
them  the  non-Arian  tribes  who  were  previously  in  possession  of  the 
Panjab  and  other  parts  of  the  north-west  provinces  of  India,  and  after 
organizing  Brahmanical  communities,  and  founding  Brahmanical  insti- 
tutions in  the  north,  gradually  diffused  themselves  to  the  east  and 
south,  and  eventually  extended  their  discipline,  and  to  some  degree 
their  sacred  language,  to  the  remotest  parts  of  the  peninsula. 

To  whatever  degree  the  details  of  this  theory  may  be  capable  of 
proof,  the  general  conclusion,  at  least,  seems  to  be  undeniable,  viz., 
that  the  ancestors,  both  of  the  Dravidian  nations,  and  of  other  non- 
Sanskritic  tribes  now  occupying  different  parts  of  India,  were  in 
occupation  of  that  country  before  the  immigration  of  the  Arians; 
and  that  the  former  could  not  (as  is  erroneously  intimated  in  various 
Puranio  and  other  traditions)  have  been  descended  from  the  latter. 
If  the  Dravidian  Cholas,  Keralas,  etc.,  were  originally  Eshatriyas 
who  fell  away  from  Brahmaniam,  they  must  have  been  reconverted  to 
that  system ;  a  double  process  of  which  there  is  no  historical  proof. 


489 


ADDITIONAL    NOTES. 


i.  Page  47,  lines  21-24. 

This  remark  seems  to  be  incorrect.  THe  Scholiast  could  not  have 
meant  to  denote  the  Maharashtri,  or  any  other  of  the  provincial  Prakrits, 
by  the  term  "  deSi,"  as  they  all  embraced  a  "  tatsama"  and  a  "  tad- 
bhava"  element  also.  He  could  only,  when  using  the  word  "  desi," 
have  referred  to  the  local  element  in  each.     See  pp.  49,  427,  ff. 

ii.  Page  249,  lines  18,  ff. 

A  leanred  friend  informs  me  that  the  Sanskrit  astu  does  not  cor- 
respond to  the  Latin  esto,  which  in  old  Latin  is  estod ;  that  the  latter 
word  coincides  with  such  Sanskrit  forms  as  yajatat,  etc. ;  and  that  the 
same  holds  good  of  the  Greek  esto.  He  also  states  that  santu  (Sanskrit) 
is  not  =  sunto  (Latin) ;  and  that  the  Greek  es,  era,  do  not  correspond  to 
the  Sanskrit  asis,  asit,  but  to  the  Vedic  as  (compare  Bohtlingk  and 
Roth  s.v.  1,  a«  ;  where  Panini  vii.  3,  97,  and  E.V.  x.  85,  7;  x.  129, 
3,  and  x.  149,  2,  are  referred  to).  Bopp.  Comp.  Gr.,  2nd  ed.,  ii.  p.  410, 
gives  the  Sanskrit  dsam,  asls,  asit,  and  as,  as  corresponding  to  the 
Greek  en,  es,  es,  en;  and  Schleicher  in  the  table  in  p.  710,  of  his 
Compendium,  3rd  ed.,  gives  esto  (Gr.)  and  esto  (Lat.)  as  corresponding 
to  the  Sanskrit  astu,  and  sunto  (Lat.)  as  coinciding  with  the  Sanskrit 


iii.  Fage  250,  line  14. 
Bars,  dadarsa,  correspond  both  in  sense  and  sound  to  derko,  dedorka. 

iv.  Page  251,  lines  25-27. 

Instead  of  the  Sanskrit  na/oata,  samatd,  laghutd,  such  Vedic  forms  as 
arishtatdti,  devatdti,  sarvatdti,  should  have  been  given  as  the  more 
exact  equivalents  of  the  Zend,  Greek,  and  Latin  words  there  quoted. 
See  Bopp's  Comp.  Grammar,  2nd  ed.,  vol.  iii.  pp.  218  (where  the  Latin 
seneota,  juventa,  vindicta,  are  specified  as  the  forms  corresponding  to  the 
VOL.  II.  32 


490       MAHABHARATA  AND  EAMATANA  ON  THE  SAVAGE  EACES. 

Sanskrit  navata,  etc.),  and  221.    See  also  Schleicher's  Compendium, 
3rd  ed.,  p.  425.  f. 

V.  Page  251,  lines  28,  ff. 

Compare  with  the  Sanskrit  and  Greek  forms  in  Us  and  sis,  the  Latin 
mens,  mentis;  ars,  a/rtis ;  fors,  fortis;  and  vestis.  See  Schleicher's 
Compendium,  p.  437. 

vi.  Page  253. 

In  the  appendix  to  his  edition  of  TJjjvalaladatta,  Prof.  Aufrecht  has 
pointed  out  a  number  of  forms  which  correspond  in  Sanskrit,  Greek, 
and  Latin. 

vii.  Page  2&4c,  line  1 ;  and  289,  line  6,  and  note  66. 

See  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth's  Lexicon,  s.v.  1,  rudh;  where  rodhati  in 
E.V.  viii.  43,  6,  and  vi  rodhat,  in  R.V.  i.  67,  5  (9),  are  derived  from 
rudh,  the  old  form  of  ruh,  and  are  explained  in  the  sense  of  "  growing." 
See  also  Benfey's  translation  of  the  latter  passage  in  Orient  und  Occi- 
dent, i.  696. 

viii.  Page  347,  lines  8,  ff ;  348,  lines  25,  ff.,  and  350,  f. 
Compare  note  12  in  the  first  preface  above,  p.  xxv. 

ix.    Page  393,  line  19;  395,  Une  21 ;  396,  line  15  ;  and  418,  note  124. 

The  points  referred  to  in  these  passages  are  further  illustrated  by  the 
following  linos  from  the  Mahabharata,  ii.  1169,  ff. :  Tatah  Surpara- 
kam  ehaiva  Talakatam,  athdpi  cha  \  vah  chaTcre  mahatejah  Pandakami 
eha  mahaialah  |  1170  |  Sdgara-dvipa-vasdms  cha  nripatln  Mleohha- 
yoni-jan\  Nishddan  pwrushadami  cha  Karnapravm-anan  api  \  1171  | 
Ye  cha  Kalamukhah  nama  nara-rakshasa-yonayah  \  Tiritsnam  KoUgi- 
rim  ehaiva  Surabhlpattanam  tathd  |  ....  1173  |  Eha/paddrhi  cha 
pwushan  Kerahdn  vana-vdsinah  \  nagarlm  Sanjayantim  cha  p&shan- 
dam  Karahdtakam  \  1175  |  Butair  eva  vase  ohahre-  \  1176  |  Tatah 
hachchha-gato  dhimdn  dutdn  Mddravatl-sutah  I  1177  |  Preshayamdsa 
rdjendra  Paulastydya  mahatmane  |  VlhMshandya  dharmdtmd  prlti- 
purvam  arindama  \  1178  |  S'a  chdsya  pratijagrdha  idsanam  priti- 
purvaham  \  "1169.  Then  the  glorious  and  mighty  warrior  reduced 
to  subjection  S'urparaka,  Talakata,  the  Dand,akas,  (1170)  the  kings 


STORY  FEOM  MAHABHARATA  ABOUT  EAKSHASAS.  491 

of  Mleehba  race,  who  inliabited  the  islands  of  the  ocean,  the 
Mshadas,  the  men-eaters,  the  KarnapraTaranas,  [men  whose  ears 
served  them  for  coverings],  (1171)  the  Kalamukhas  sprung  from  men 
and  EakshasaB,  the  whole  of  Kolagiri  and  Surabhipattana  .... 
1173.  He  then  by  his  heralds  subjected  the  Eerakas,  one-footed  mea 
living  in  forests,  the  city  Sanjayanti,  and  the  wicked  Earahataka  .  ,  . 
1176.  Then  the  wise  and  righteous  son  of  Madravati,  arrived  in  the 
low-lying  tract,  sent  messengers  amicably  to  the  great  son  of  Pnlastya, 
Vibhishana,  who  received  his  commands  in  the  same  spirit."  In  verse 
1837,  the  "man-eating  Eomakas,"  and  in  v.  1875,  the  Earnaprava- 
ranas,  are  again  mentioned. 

The  monkeys  despatched  to  seek  for  Sita  are  desired  to  visit  among 
other  countries  those  of  the  following  races : — Eamayana  iv.,  40,  26, 
ff.  (Bombay  ed.,  =iv.  40,  29,  ff.,  Gorr.  ed.):  Karnapravaranams  ckaiva 
tatha  chapy  Oshthakarmkdh  |  GhoralohamulcMi  chaiva  jmanak  chaika- 
padakdh  I  akshayah  lalavaniai  eha  tathawa  pwrushadakah  \  Kiratah 
tlhshnachudds  cha  hemabhah  priya-dar&anah  \  ama-mmasanas  chapi 
Kiratah  dvipavasinah  \  antarjalaeharah  ghordh  narmydghrdh  Hi 
smritah.  "  The  Earnapravaranas  (men  whose  ears  served  for  cover- 
ings), the  Oshthakarnakas  (people  whose  ears  extended  to  their  lips), 
the  dreadful  Lohamukhas  (iron-faced-men),  swift,  and  one-footed,  un- 
decaying,  strong,  men-eaters  (a  kind  of  Eakshasas  according  to  the 
commentator),  the  Eiratas,  with  sharp-pointed  hair-knots,  gold- 
coloured,  and  pleasant  to  behold ;  and  the  dreadful  Eiratas,  who  are 
islanders,  and  eat  raw  fish,  live  in  the  waters,  and  are  men-tigers 
(men  below  and  tigers  above,  according  to  the  commentator)."  One 
of  the  Eakshasis  mentioned  in  the  Mahabh.  iii.  6137,  is  called 
ekapada,  "the  one-footed." 

X.  Faye  416,  line  4.. 

The  Eakshasas  are  in  other  places  also  described  as  following  Brah- 
manical  observances.  Thus  in  the  sequel  of  the  story  of  Gautama 
(from  the  Mahabharata  xii.  6293,  ff.),  above  referred  to  in  pp.  365,  f., 
and  418,  note  124, — which  is  told  as  an  illustration  of  ingratitude, — 
it  is  narrated  that  in  consequence  of  the  remonstrances  of  the  other 
Brahman,  the  hero  of  the  story,  after  pleading  poverty  as  an  excuse 
for  his  mode  of  life,  left  the  Dasyu  village  in  which  he  had  been  living, 


492    STORT  FROM  MAHIBHARATA  ABOUT  THE  RAKSHASAS. 

and  went  towards  the  ocean.  While  he  is  halting  in  a  delightful 
forest  under  a  tree,  a  crane,  called  Eajadharman,  son  of  Kalyapa  and 
the  goddess  Dakshayani,  and  a  friend  of  Brahma,  arrives  in  the  even- 
ing from  the  heaven  of  that  deity.  Gautama,  heing  hungry  and  thirsty, 
is  tempted  to  kUl  and  eat  him.  The  hird,  however,  welcomes  him  as  a 
guest  to  his  house,  and  entertains  him  with  the  utmost  kindness  and 
hospitality.  Gautama  then,  in  answer  to  an  inquiry  of  his  host,  explains 
that  he  is  indigent,  and  on  his  way  to  th%  sea-coast  in  search  of  the 
means  of  subsistence.  The  bird  promises  to  procure  him  riches,  and 
in  the  morning  sends  him  to  a  friend  of  his  own,  a  Rakshasa  king, 
called  Virupaksha,  who  lived  not  far  off,  and  who,  he  said,  would  fulfil  all 
Gautama's  aspirations  (v.  6356).  The  Brahman  accordingly  proceeds 
to  the  court  of  the  Eakshasa  chief,  where  he  is  eagerly  welcomed.  In 
answer  to  the  Eakshasa's  questions,  he  avows  that  he  has  married  a 
S'udra  woman  as  his  second  wife  {punarbhu).  Notwithstanding  this 
confession,  he  is  invited  to  a  feast  to  be  given  to  a  thousand  learned 
Brahmans  whom  the  Eakshasa  chief  was  to  entertain  on  that  day 
(vv.  6376,  ff.)  These  Brahmans  were  all  well  fed,  received  large 
presents  of  jewels,  and  were  assured  that  on  that  day  they  would 
receive  no  molestation  from  any  Eakshasas  (vv.  6392,  f.).  Gautama, 
too,  got  his  share  of  gold,  which  weighed  so  heavily,  that  he  could 
scarcely  carry  it  away  to  his  place  of  sojourn  in  the  forest,  where 
he  sat  down  wearied  and  hungry.  He  is,  however,  welcomed  and 
entertained  by  the  crane  Eajadharman,  but  resolves  to  slay  his  host, 
that  he  may  have  somewhat  to  eat  on  the  way  home  (v.  6401).  He 
accordingly  kills  the  crane  while  asleep,  plucks  and  roasts  him  (v. 
6403),  and  sets  out  on  his  journey  homeward.  After  a  time,  the 
Eakshasa  king  is  apprehensive  that  something  may  have  befallen  his 
friend  Eajadharman,  who  had  not  come  to  visit  him  as  usual,  and  sends 
to  ascertain  the  cause  of  his  absence  (6407,  ff.).  The  bird's  skeleton 
is  discovered,  and  Gautama  is  pursued  and  brought  to  the  Eakshasa 
king,  who,  with  his  ministers  and  purohitas,  weeps  at  the  sight  of 
his  friend's  remains  (v.  6418) ;  and  commands  the  malefactor  to  be 
slain  and  his  flesh  given  to  the  Eakshasas  to  eat.  They,  however, 
beg  to  decline  eating  the  flesh  of  such  a  sinner,  and  say  it  should 
be  given  to  the  Dasyus.  But  even  the  latter  refuse  to  eat  it.  Both 
Eajadharman  and  Gautama  are,  however,  afterwards  restored  to  life. 


PEOP.  M.  MULLER  ON  THE  KUBHA,  KEUMU,  ETC.  493 

The  latter  returns  to  his  old  haunts,  and  begets  wicked  sons  on  this 
S'udra  woman,  his  second  wife.  He  is  in  consequence  cursed  by  the 
gods,  and  doomed  to  hell  (vv.  6445,  ff.). 

xi.  Page  343,  lines  8  and  19.         ^ 

The  number  of  the  periodical  called  "Nature,"  for  14th  Sept.,  1871, 
contains  an  article  by  Prof.  Max  Miiller,  on  Major-General  Cunning- 
ham's "Ancient  Geography  of  India,"  in  which  E.V.  v.  53,  9,  and  x. 
75,  6,  are  translated,  and  some  remarks  on  the  Kubha,  Krumu,  and 
Gomati  rivers  are  added. 

xii.  Page  439,  line  14. 
As  this  sheet  is  passing  through  the  press,  I  find  that  it  is  stated 
by  a  writer  in  the  "Comhill  Magazine  "  for  November,  1871,  p.  570,  f., 
that  Dr.  Caldwell  is  wrong  in  asserting  that  the  Dravidians  are  a 
Turanian  people;  and  that  in  reality  they  " represent  lineally  an  off- 
shoot from  the  great  parent  stock  which  left  the  fatherland  long  before 
Sanskrit  was  grown  into  vigour,  and  about  the  same  periodthat  the 
Teutonic  wave  flowed  northwards  into  Europe.  There  is  scarcely  a 
Dravidian  root  which  does  not  appear  in  Gothic,  Anglosaxon,  or  Ice- 
landic." As  at  present  informed,  I  am  unable  to  say  whether  any 
detailed  proof  of  these  assertions  has  been,  or  can  be,  adduced. 


494 


METEICAL  TRANSLATIONS. 


I  KBPJKINT  here  two  metrical  translations  from  Indian  antbors,  wHoh 
have  already  been  published,  though  they  are  but  very  slightly  con- 
nected with  the  other  contents  of  this  volume. 

I.  Asita  and  Buddha,  or  the  Indian  Simeon. 

In  the  Lalita  Vistara — a  legendary  history  in  prose  and  verse  of  the 
life  of  Buddha,  the  great  Indian  Saint,  and  founder  of  the  religion 
which  bears  his  name — it  is  related  that  a  Eishi,  or  inspired  sage, 
named  Asita,  who  dwelt  on  the  skirts  of  the  Himalaya  mountains, 
became  informed,  by  the  occurrence  of  a  variety  of  portents,  of  the 
birth  of  the  future  lawgiver,  as  the  son  of  King  S'uddhodana,  in  the 
city  of  Kapilavastu,  in  Northern  India,  and  went  to  pay  his  homage 
to  the  infant.  I  have  tried  to  reproduce  the  legend  in  the  following 
verses.  The  similarity  of  some  of  the  incidents  to  portions  of  the 
narrative  in  St.  Luke  ii.  25,  ff.,  will  strike  the  reader. 

I  may  mention  that  the  Buddhist  books  speak  also  of  earlier  Buddhas, 
that  the  word  means  "the  enlightened,"  or  "the  intelligent,"  and 
that  Buddha  also  bore  the  appellations  of  Gautama,  and  of  S'akyasinha, 
and  S'akyamuni — i.e.,  the  lion,  and  the  devotee,  of  the  tribe  of  the 
S'akyas,  to  which  he  belonged. 

That  I  have  not  at  all  exaggerated  the  expressions  in  the  text  which 
speak  of  Buddha  as  a  deliverer  or  redeemer,  or  assimilated  his  character 
more  than  was  justiflable  to  the  Christian  conception  of  a  Saviour, 
win  be  clear  to  any  one  who  can  examine  the  original  for  himself. 
In  a  passage  quoted  in  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  p.  509,  KumarHa 
Bhatta,  a  renowned  Brahmanical  opponent  of  the  Buddhists,  while 
charging  Buddha  with  presumption  and  transgression  of  the  rules 
of  his  caste  in  assuming  the  functions  of  a  religious  teacher  (with 
which,  as  belonging  to  the  Kshatriya,  and  not  to  the  Brahmanical, 
class,  he  had  no  right  to  interfere),  ascribes  to  him  these  words — 
"Let  all  the  evils  (or  sins)  flowing  from  the  corruption  of  the  KaU 


IDEA  OF  BUDDHA  AS  A  EEDEEMEE.  495 

age"  (the  fourth,  or  most  degenerate,  age  of  the  world)  "fall  upon 
me ;  but  let  the  world  be  redeemed  !"  If  we  were  to  judge  from  this 
passage,  it  might  seem  that  the  character  of  a  vicarious  redeemer  was 
claimed  by,  or  at  least  ascribed  to,  Buddha.  I  am  informed  by  Mr.  E. 
C.  Childers,  however,  that  in  his  opinion  the  idea  of  Buddha's  having 
suffered  vicariously  for  the  sins  of  men  is  foreign  to  Buddhism,  and 
indeed,  opposed  to  the  whole  spirit  and  tendency  of  the  system.  Ac- 
cording to  him  the  Buddhist  idea  is  simply  this,  that  Buddha  volun- 
tarily underwent  great  sufferings  and  privations  during  a  long  course 
of  probation,  in  order  that  he  might  attain  the  truth,  and  teach  it  to 
men,  and  so  redeem  them  from  worldly  existence. 

Another  valued  correspondent,  Professor  E.  B.  Cowell,  is  unable  to 
think  that  the  sentiment  ascribed  to  Buddha  by  Kumarila  is  foreign 
to  his  system,  as  it  is  thoroughly  in  accordance  with  the  idea  of  the 
six  paramitas.  But  he  does  not  understand  it  as  implying  any  theo- 
logical notion  of  vicarious  atonement,  but  rather  the  enthusiastic 
utterance  of  highly-strung  moral  sympathy  and  charity ;  and  would 
compare  it  with  St.  Paul's  words  in  Romans  ix.  3,  and  explain  it  in  just 
the  same  way  as,  he  thinks,  Chrysostom  does  that  verse.  He  further 
refers  to  the  existence  of  numerous  Buddhist  stories  in  the  Kathasarit- 
sagara,  among  which  is  one  from  Ivi.  153,  viz.,  the  story  of  the  dis- 
obedient son  with  a  red-hot  iron  wheel  on  his  head,  who  says : — 
Papino  'nye  'pi  [vi?]  muchyantam  pritJwyam  tat-pdtakair  api\  a  papa- 
Icahayam  etad  me  chakram  Ihramyatu  murdhani  \  "  Let  other  sinners  on 
earth  be  freed  from  their  sins ;  and  until  the  removal  of  [their]  sin  let 
this  wheel  turn  round  upon  my  head."  In  either  case  it  is  only  a 
wish,  and  it  is  not  pretended  that  it  really  had,  or  ever  could  have,  any 
effect  on  other  men.  It  only  expresses  a  perfection  of  charity.  The 
same  idea  (borrowed,  as  Mr.  Cowell  supposes,  from  Buddha)  occurs 
in  the  Bhagavata  Purana,  ix.  ch.  21.  The  "  immortal  word  "  {amritam 
vachah,  v.  11)  contained  in  the  12th  verse,  and  ascribed  to  the  pious  and 
benevolent  king  Rantideva, — who  himself  endured  hunger  and  thirst 
to  relieve  others, — is  as  follows :  Na  Icamaye  'ham  gatim  tsvarat  pardm 
ashtarddhi-yuMam  apunarhhtwam  va  \  artim  prapadye  'khila-dehabhajam 
aniahsthito  yena  hhwoanty  aduhkhdh  \  "  I  desire  not  from  Grod  that 
highest  destiny  which  is  attended  with  the  eight  perfections,  nor  do  I 
ask  to  be  exempted  from  future  births.    I  seek  to  live  within  all  cor- 


496 


ASITA  AND  BUDDHA,  OR  THE  INDIAN  SIMEON. 


pored  beings,  and  endure  their  pains,  that  so  they  may  he  freed  from 
suffering."      On  this  the  commeiitator  annotates  thus :  Para-Auhkha- 

mhuhnutwya  sarvesham  dwhlchwfii  avayam  bhoktum  diaste  | 

"  akhiladeha-hhajam  artim"  duUhaM  tatHad-hhoUri-rupena  "  antah- 
sthitah  "  aann  aham  "prapadye  "  prapwuy&m  ity  evam  Mmaye  \) 


On  Himalaya's  lonely  ste;ep 
There  lived  of  old  a  holy  sage, 
Of  shrivelled  form,  and  bent  with  age. 

Inured  to  meditation  deep. 

He — ^when  great  Buddha  had  been  bom, 
The  glory  of  the  Sakya  race. 
Endowed  with  every  holy  grace, 

To  save  the  suffering  world  forlorn — 

Beheld  strange  portents,  signs  which  taught 
The  wise  that  that  auspicious  time 
Had  witnessed  some  event  sublime, 

With  universal  blessing  fraught. 

The  sty  with  joyful  gods  was  thronged : 
He  heard  their  voice  with  glad  aoclaim 
Eesounding  loudly  Buddha's  name, 

While  echoes  clear  their  shouts  prolonged. 

The  cause  exploring,  far  and  wide 
The  sage's  vision  ranged ;  with  awe 
Within  a  cradle  laid  he  saw' 

Far  off  the  babe,  the  Sakyas'  pride. 

With  longing  seized  this  child  to  view 
At  hand,  and  clasp,  and  homage  pay. 
Athwart  the  sky  he  took  his  way 

By  magic  art,  and  swan-like  flew ; 

And  came  to  King  Suddhodan's  gates. 
And  entrance  craved — "  Go,  royal  page, 
And  tell  thy  lord  aU  ancient  sage 

To  see  the  £ing  permission  waits." 

The  page  obeyed,  and  joined  his  hands 
Before  the  prince,  and  said — "  A  sage. 
Of  shrivelled  form,  and  bow'ed  with  age, 

Before  the  gate,  my  sovereigUj  stands, 

"  And  humbly  asks  to  see  the  King.'' 
To  whom  Suddhodan  cried—  "  We  greet 
All  such  with  joy ;  with  honoiu:  meet 

The  holy  man  before  us  bring." 


The  saint  beside  the  monarch  stood. 
And  spake  his  blessing—"  Thine  be  health. 
With  length  of  life,  and  might,  and  wealth ;' 

And  ever  seek  thy  people's  good." 

With  all  due  forms,  and  meet  respect, 
The  King  received  the  holy  man, 
And  bade  him  sit ;  and  then  began — 

"  Great  sage,  I  do  not  recollect 

"  That  I  thy  venerable  face 
Have  ever  seen  before ;  allow 
That  I  inquire  what  brings  thee  now 

From  thy  far-distant  dwelling-place." 

"  To  see  thy  babe,"  the  saint  replies, 
"I  come  from  Himalaya's  steeps." 
The  king  rejoined — "  My  infant  sleeps ; 

A  moment  wait  until  he  rise." 

"  Such  great  ones  ne'er,"  the  Rishi  spake, 
"  In  torpor  long  their  senses  steep. 
Nor  softly  love  luxurious  sleep  ; 

The  infant  Prince  will  soon  awake." 

The  wondrous  child,  alert  to  rise. 
At  will  his  slumbers  light  dispelled. 
His  father's  arms  the  infant  held 

Before  the  sage's  longing  eyes. 

The  babe  beholding,  passing  bright. 
More  glorious  than  the  race  divine. 
And  marked  with  every  noble  sign,'* 

The  saint  was  whelmed  with  deep  delight ; 

And  crying — "Lol  an  infant  graced 
With  every  charm  of  form  1  greet !" 
He  fell  before  the  Buddha's  fleet, 

With  fingers  joined,  and  round  him  paced." 

Next  round  the  babe  his  arms  he  wound, 
And  "  One,"  he  said,  "  of  two  careers 
Of  fame  awaits  in  coming  years 

The  child  in  whom  these  signs  are  found. 


1*  Certain  corporeal  marks  are  supposed  by  Indian  -writers  to  indicate  the  future  greatness  of 
those  children  in'  -whom  they  appear.  Of  these,  thirty-two  primary,  and  eighty  secondary,  marlis 
are  referred  to  in  the  original  as  being  visible  on  Buddha's  person. 

16  The  word  here  imperfectly  translated,  means,  according  to  Professor  H.  H.  Wilson's 
Dictionary,  "  reverential  salutation,  by  circumambulating  a  person  or  object,  keeping  the  right 
side  towards  them," 


ASITA  AND  BTTDDHA,  OR  THE  INDIAN  SIMEON. 


497 


"  If  such  an  one  at  home  abide, 
He  shall  become  a  King,  whose  sway 
Supreme  a  mighty  arm'd  array 

On  earth  shall  stablish  far  and  wide. 

"  If,  spuming  worldly  pomp  as  Tain, 
He  choose  to  lead  a  tranquil  life. 
And  wander  forth  from  home  and  wife, 

He  then  a  Buddha's  rank  shall  gain." 

He  spoke,  and  on  the  infant  gazed, 
.   When  tears  suffused  his  aged  eyes ; 

His  bosom  heaved  with  heavy  sighs ; 
Then  King  Suddhodan  asked,  amazed — 

"  Say,  holy  man,  what  makes  thee  weep, 
And  deeply  sigh  ?    Does  any  fate 
Malign  the  royal  chUd  await  ? 

May  heavenly  powers  my  infant  keep !" 

"  For  thy  fair  infant's  weal  no  fears 
Disturb  me,  King,"  the  Risbi  cried ; 
"  No  in  can  such  a  chUd  betide  : 
My  own  sad  lot  commands  my  tears. 

"  In  every  grace  complete,  thy  son 
Of  truth  shall  perfect  insight  '^  gain, 
And  far  sublimer  fame  attain 

Than  ever  lawgiver  has  won. 

"  He  such  a  Wheel"  of  sacred  lore 
Shall  speed  on  earth  to  roll,  as  yet 
Hath  never  been  in  motion  set 

By  priest,  or  sage,  or  god  of  yore. 

"  The  world  of  men  and  gods  to  bless, 
The  way  of  rest  and  peace  to  teach, 
A  holy  law  thy  son  shall  preach — 

A  law  of  stainless  righteousness. 

"  By  him  shall  suffering  men  be  freed 
From  weakness,  sickness,  pain  and  grief; 
From  all  the  ills  shall  find  relief 

Which  hatred,  love,  illusion,  breed. 

"  His  hand  shall  loose  the  chains  of  all 
Who  groan  in  fleshly  bonds  confined ; 
With  healing  touch  the  wounds  shall  bind 

Of  those  whom  pain's  sharp  arrows  gall. 


"  His  words  of  power  shall  put  to  flight 
The  dull  array  of  leaden  clouds 
Which  helpless  mortals'  vision  stoouds, 

And  clear  their  intellectual  sight. 

"  By  him  shall  men  who,  now  untaught, 
In  devious  paths  of  error  stray. 
Be  led  to  find  a  perfect  way — 

To  final  calm  i^  at  last  be  brought. 

"  But  once,  0  King,  in  many  years. 
The  figtree's  somewhere  flowers  perhaps ; 
So  after  countless  ages'  lapse, 

A  Buddha  once  on  earth  appears. 

"  And  now,  at  length,  this  blessed  time 
Has  come ;  for  he  who  cradled  lies 
An  infant  there  befi)re  thine  eyes 

Shall  be  a  Buddha  in  his  prime. 

"  Full,  perfect,  insight  gaining,  he 
Shall  rescue  endless  myriads  tost 
On  life's  rough  ocean  waves,  and  lost, 

And  grant  them  immortality.^" 

"  But  I  am  old,  and  frail,  and  worn ; 
I  shall  not  live  the  day  to  see 
When  this  thy  wondrous  child  shall  free 

From  woe  the  suffering  world  forlorn. 

"  'Tis  this  mine  own  unhappy  fate 
Which  bids  me  mourn,  and  weep,  and  sigh; 
The  Buddha's  triumph  now  is  nigh, 

But  ah  !  for  me  it  comes  too  late !" 

When  thus  the  aged  saint,  inspired, 
Had  all  the  infant's  greatness  told. 
The  King  his  wondrous  son  extolled. 

And  sang,  with  pious  ardour  fired — 

"  Thee,  chUd,  th'  immortals  worship  all, 
The  great  Physician,  born  to  cure 
All  ills  that  hapless  men  endure ; 

I,  too,  before  thee  prostrate  faU." 

And  now — his  errand  done — the  sage, 
Dismissed  with  gifts,  and  honour  due, 
Athwart  the  sether  swan-Kke  flew. 

And  reached  again  his  hermitage. 


>6  The  term  here  translated  "  insight "  is  derived  from  the  same  root  as  the  word  "  Buddha," 
and  means  **  intelligence,"  or  "  enlightenment." 

*^  The  terra  thus  rendered,  dharmachakraj  expresses  a  somewhat  singular  figure.  It  denotes 
the  "  wheel  of  the  law,"  or  the  "  wheel  of  righteousness,"  or  the  "  wheel  of  religion." 

18  The  word  in  the  original  is  nirv&tia,  a  term  of  which  the  sense  is  disputed— some  scholars 
esteeming  it  to  mean  absolute  annihilation ;  others  explaining  it  as  the  extinction  of  passion,  the 
attainment  of  perfect  dispassion.  Mr.  Childers  informs  me  that  he  considers  nirvdi^a  to  signify 
active  bliss  on  earth  for  a  brief  period,  followed  (upon  death)  by  total  annihilation.  See  a  letter 
from  him  on  this  subject  in  No.  62  of  "  Ttilbncr's  Literary  Record  "  for  October,  1870,  p.  27. 

^9  The  tree  referred  to  in  the  original  is  the  Udumbara,  the  I^cus  glomerata, 

80  Amrite  cha  pratishthapayishyati. 


498 


STORY  OP  HAVANA  AND  VEDAVATI 


II.  Havana  and,  Vedavati. 
The  Eamayana,  as  is  well  known  to  students  of  Indian  literature, 
relates  the  adventures  of  Bama,  son  of  the  King  of  Ayodhya  (Oude), 
who,  in  consequence  of  a  domestic  intrigue,  became  an  exile  from  his 
country,  and  wandered  about  the  southern  regions  of  India  in  company 
with  his  brother  Lakshmana  and  his  wife  Sita.  Sita  was  carried  off 
by  Eavana,  King  of  the  Eakshasas  (demons  or  goblins),  to  his  capital 
Lanka,  in  the  island  of  Ceylon.  Ultimately,  Eavana  was  slain  in 
battle  by  Eama,  who  (according,  at  least,  to  the  poem  in  its  existing, 
and  perhaps  interpolated,  form)  was  an  incarnation  of  the  supreme 
god  Vishnu,  and  Sita  was  rescued.  Eama  returned  to  Ayodhya  after 
his  father's  death,  and  succeeded  him  on  the  throne.  The  legend 
now  freely  translated  is  taken  from  the  supplementary  book  of  the 
Eamayana,  chapter  17,  and  relates  a  passage  in  the  earlier  life  of 
Eavana.  Vedavati,  the  heroine  of  the  story,  agreeably  to  the  Indian 
theory  of  the  transmigration  of  souls,  was  subsequently  re-born  in  the 
form  of  Sita. 


Where,  clothed  in  everlasting  snow, 

Himalay's  giant  peaks  arise 

Against  the  ambient  azure  skies, 
And  bright  as  molten  silver  glow — 
"While,  far  beneath,  the  solitudes 
Are  green  with  Devadatu "'  woods — 

It  chanced  that  once  the  demon  lord 

"Who  ruled  in  Lanka's  isle  afar, 

And,  mounted  on  his  airy  car, 
Those  northern  tracts  sublime  explored. 
Alighted  there  upon  the  ground, 
And  roamed  the  forests  mid  around. 

And,  lo,  he  saw  a  maiden,  fair 

And  brilUant  as  a  goddess,  clad 

In  garb  ascetic,  rude  and  sad. 
Deform  with  squalid  matted  hair : 
And  all  at  once  with  passion  fired, 
The  damsel's  secret  thus  inquired : 

"  How  is  it,  teU  me,  lovely  maid — 

"Whose  virgin  charms  subdue  the  heart, 

"Whose  form  with  every  grace  of  art 
In  gold  and  gems  should  be  arrayed — 
Thou  dost  this  doleful  garb  assume, 
"Which  ill  beseems  thy  youthful  bloom  ? 

31  JHnus  devadaru,  whicli  signifies,  the  "  divine  tree ;"  the  Deodar,  a  magnificent  tree,  both 
n  height  and  girth. 
92  The  Daityas  in  character  correspoad  with  the  Titans  of  the  Greeks. 


"  "Whose  daughter  .art  thou  ?  "What  hath  led 
Thy  choice  to  such  a  life  austere  ? 
0  blest  were  he  whom,  lady  dear 

And  beauteous,  thou  should' st  deign  to  wed ! " 

Him,  duly  honoured  as  a  guest, 

The  fair  ascetic  thus  addressed  : 

"  My  father  was  a  holy  sage ; 
From  him  I  sprang  as,  calm,  and  dead 
To  earthly  aims  and  joys,  he  read 

Th'  eternal  Veda's  hallowed  page: 

The  voice  which  spoke  within  the  Book 

In  me  a  form  corporeal  took. 

"  The  gods,  enamoured,  all  aspired 
The  honour  of  my  hand  to  gain  : 
Their  ardent  pleas  were  urged  in  vain ; 

A  loftier  aim  my  father  fired ;  • 

For  he  had  vowed,  with  lawful  pride, 

I  could  be  only  Vishnu's  bride. 

"  Incensed  at  his  rejection,  one 
Among  the  suitors,  proud  but  base, 
The  chieftain  of  the  Daitya  race," 
Avenged  the  slight  the  sage  had  shown  : 
By  night  he  nigh  my  father  crept, 
And  vilely  slew  him  while  he  slept. 


PROM  THE  EAMATANA. 


499 


"  That  I  my  sire's  high  aim  may  gain, 
And  win  great  Visnnu  for  my  lord, 
I  lead  this  life,  by  thee  abhorred, 

Of  hard  austerity  and  pain ; 

And,  till  the  god  himself  impart, 

I  wed  his  image  in  my  heart. 

"  I  know  thee,  Ravan,  who  thou  art: 
By  virtue  of  this  life  austere 
All  hidden  things  to  me  are  clear ; 
I  bid  thee  hence ;  avaunt,  depart !" 
But  by  the  maiden's  charms  subdued. 
The  demon  still  his  suit  pursued. 

"  Proud  art  thou,  lady  fair,  whose  soul 
So  high  aspires ;  but  such  sublime 
DeTotion  suits  not  well  thy  prime, 

Nor  stem  and  painful  self-control. 

The  old  may  so  their  days  employ ; 

But  thou  should'st  live  for  love  and  joy. 

"  I  am  the  lord  of  Lanka's  isle ; 

Thy  peerless  charms  my  bosom  fire ; 

If  thou  wilt  crown  my  heart's  desire, 
And  ever  on  me  sweetly  smile, 
Then  thou,  my  favoured  queen,  shalt  know 
The  bliss  &at  power  and  wealth  bestow. 

"  And  who  is  Vishnu,  pray,  declare, 
Whose  form  thy  fancy  paints  so  bright  P 
Can  he  in  prowess,  grandeur,  might, 

And  magic  gifts,  with  me  compare  ? 

A  phantom  vain  no  longer  chase, 

The  offer  of  my  love  embrace." 

To  whom  the  holy  maid  replied — 

"  Presumptuous  fiend,  thy  boast  is  loud : 
No  voice  but  thine,  profanely  proud. 

Hath  ever  Vishnu's  might  defied. 


Heaven,  earth,  and  hell,  all  own  him  lord — 
By  all  their  hosts  and  powers  adored.' ' 

She  spake ;  the  fiend  with  rage  was  fired : 
The  damsel's  hair  be  rudely  grasped ; 
Thus  by  bis  hated  fingers  clasped. 

She  tore  her  locks,  and  cried,  inspired — 

"  This  insult  I  may  not  survive : 

I  enter  now  this  fire,  alive. 

"  Yet  though  I  die,  I  once  again 
Shall  live  to  recompense  this  wrong. 
And  though  my  vengeance  slumber  long. 

My  pious  works  their  meed  shall  gain. 

And  I  shall  re-appear  on  earth, 

A  virgin  fair  of  royal  birth." 

She  ceased.    With  fixed  resolve  to  die, 
The  fire  she  entered,  calm,  elate  ; 
When  all  at  once,  to  celebrate 
This  deed  heroic,  from  the  sky 
There  fell  a  shower  of  fragrant  flowers. 
Rained  down  by  gods  from  heavenly  bowers. 

Nor  was  this  maid's  prediction  vain. 

Attaining  all  her  heart's  desire. 
As  Slta  she  was  bom  again. 

The  daughter  of  a  royal  sire. 
And  won  great  Rama  for  her  lord. 
Whom  men  as  Vishnu's  Self  adored. 

And  now  the  demon-king  profane, 
Whose  coming  doom  had  been  foretold 
By  that  insulted  maid  of  old. 

By  Rama's  hand  in  fight  was  slain. 

For  how  could  hellish  power  withstand 

Incarnate  Vishnu's  murderous  brand  ? 


501 


INDEX  TO  PROPEE  NAMES  AND  MATTERS. 


A 
AbMdhaTmapitaka,  56 
Abhira,  428 
Abhlrika,  46 
Abhlii,  dialect,  46 
Abu  Sin,  349 
Acbcba,  see  Atsu  and  Utsu 
Achitas,  391 
Adar^a,  400 
Adharavana  Vyakaranam, 

428 
Adhvaryu,  188 
Aditi,  297 

Aditya  (the  sun),  188 
^scbyluB  quoted,  293 
Agamemnon,  196 
Agastya,  409,  413  ft 
Agni,  175, 181,  185, 188f, 
197,  201  f,   211  f,  323, 
361,  451,  etc. 
Agnibotra,  404 
Agni  purana,  422 
Agrayana,  177 
Abi,  388 
AhT^uva,  387 
Ahriman,  480,  see  Angra- 

mainyus 
Ahura  Mazda,  298  f,   329 

ff,  464,  471  fF. 
AindrayayaTa-graba-brab- 

maua,  213 
AiravatI,  484,  see  Iravati 
Airyama,  298 
Airyama-vaejo,   329  ff, 

480  f. 
Aitareya  Brabmana  181 

i.  4—172 

i.  23,  25—381  f. 

ii.  19—397 

v.  32—188 
vii. 

1,  22,  34—183,  353 

13—184 

18—364,  369 

■viii.  14,  23—324 

38—183 


Aitibasikas,  175  f. 
Akesines,  345 
Akrida,  422 
Aksu,  484 
Akuli,  386,  396 
Alexandria,  479 
Alexander  tbe  Great,  344  f . 
Alisbung,  345 
AUababad  piUar   inscrip- 
_  tion,  104,  109 
Amad,  390 

Amarakosba,  255,  404 
Amesha^pentas,  475 
Amir  Taimur,  6 
Auagnitra,  390 
Anasas,  392 
AnaTa,  377 
Andhra-dipita,  427 
Andbrabbritya  dynasty, 

438 
Andbra  kaumudi,  428, 431 
Andhrian  Vishnu,  428, 43 1 
Andhra  Eaya  or  Andbra 

Eoyoodoo,431,  436,  438 
Andbras,  364,  423,  427 
Andra,  300,  478 
Angas,    351  f,    357,   406, 

454 
Angiras,  197 
Angirasas,  189,  383 
Anglosaxons,  280 
Angramainyus,  299,  330 
Anindra,  373  f. 
Anitabba,  343  ff,  348  f 
Anjana,  350 
Annibi,  479 

Annibian  mountains,  479 
Anthropophagi,  479 
Anukramani,  195,  361 
Anuyajas,  175  f. 
Anyades'yam,  428 
Apabbram^a,    46  ff,     52, 
_  269,  428 
Apastamba,  179 
Apaya,  345 
Appakavlyam,  429 


Aptya,  296 
Arabic,  218  ff. 
Aracbosia,  314,  332 
AranyanI,  393 
Ararat,  481 
Arattas,  482  ff 
Arbuda,  385,  387  f. 
Ardhamagadll,  dialect,  46, 

50 
Aria,  Ariana,  318,  340 
Ariabignes,Ariarathes,etc., 

etc.,  293 
Arii,  292 

Arimanius  (Ahriman)  472 
Ariomardus,  292 
Arizanti,  292 
Arjikiya,  341,  345,  348 
Arjuni,  385 
Arna,  347  f,  361 
Arrian,  Indica,  344 
Aryaman,  297  f. 
Aryas,  213,  282,  291,  354, 

359  ff,  443 
Aryavarta,  303,  340,  400 
Ashi,  331 
Asikni,  341,  345 
Asita,  the  Indian  Simeon, 

494 
AsmirEean  mountains,  479 
As'oka,  66,  62  ff,  104,  132 
Asura,  299 
Asuras,  175,  202, 363,  485, 

etc.,  etc. 

,  their  castles,  378  ff. 

Asutripas,  391,  418 
A^valayana,  179,  199, 298 
As'vatha,  461 
A^vins,  176,  360,  447,  471 
Atharvan,  451,  460  f,  464 
Atharvans,  189,  383 
Atbarvangirasas,  460 
Atharva  Sanbita,   187  ff, 

445  ff. 
Atharvaveda. 
iii. 
17,  4,  8—421 


502 


INDEX. 


Atharvaveda.— «o«is'«Me<;. 

iv. 

16,  1,  fF.-4Sl 

20,  4,  8—368 

30,  4—209 

T. 

4,  1—328 

22,  6,  7  f,  12,  14— 

351,  446 
28,  9  f— 383 

X. 

3,  11—388 

4,  23—461 

6,  10,  20—383 

7,  20—189 
xi.  7,  24—189 

xii. 
1,  11—349 

1,  45—376 

xviii. 

2,  28—368,  387. 

47,  50—451 
62,  1—368 
Atkrava,  456,  460,  464 
Athwya,  296,  473 
Atithigva,  379,  385 
Atri,  198,  388 
Atsu  Telugu,  429  f. 
Attliakatha,  56,  62 
Attock,  336 
Atyarati,  324 
Audharvan  Achary,  432 
Audumbarayana,  177 
Aufrecht,  Prof.  Th.,  Us 

Catalogue,  167 
,  art.  in  Jour.  Ger. 

Or.  Society,  343 
,  art.  in  Ind.  Stud. 

196 
,  on  age  of  Atharva- 

Teda,  450  ff. 

on  the  relation  of 


Prakrit  to  Sanskrit,. 131 
-,  on  Vedic  forms  in 


Pali,  72 
,    quotations  sup- 
plied by,  159,  400 
-,   suggestions    by, 


205,  238,  359,  ete. 
,  bis  Ujjvalaladatta, 

142,  490 
AupamanyaTa,  175,  195 
Aurnavabba,  176  f,  204 
,      tbe    demon, 

371,  387 
Auxasian  mountains,  479 
Avanti,  dialect,  50 
Avatars,  203 


Avesta,  459  f,  475  f. 
Ayodbya,  498 
Ayu,  386. 

B 
Bactria,  467,  481 
Bactrians,  457,  459 

—  kings,  336,  484 

language,  226 

Badakhsban,  319,  484 
Badarika,  329 
Bagb  0  Babar  quoted,  6 
Baebr's  Herodotus,  292 
Babikas,   202,   352,   354, 
482  ff. 

B:Sp*^vfM46, 

Balbikas )      *"* 
Bakbdbi,  330 
Baladicbcha,  60 
Balaramayana,  78, 89, 103 
Balasa,  351 
Bali  417 
Balkb,  332,  446 
Ballantine,  Eev.  H.,    on 

relation  of  Mahratti  to 

Sanskrit,  26 
Ballantyne,  Dr.  J.  R.,  cor- 
rection  suggested   by 

bim,  174 
,  bis  Mababbasbya, 

154,  346 
Banga,  64 
Bangas,  357 
Bauddbas,  269 
Bauddhayana,  179 
Beames,   Mr.  J.,   art.   in 

Journ.  R.  A.  S.,  8,  36, 

143  f. 
Beeas,  346 

Bebar,  347,  360,  404,  443 
Bebat,  346 

Belurtagb,  318  f,  334,  480 
Benfey,  Prof.  Tb. 
— : — ,  bis  art.  in  Gott.  Gel. 

Anz.  115, 117, 146,  336, 

367  f. 
,  Griecb.  'Wurzellexi- 

kon,  228,  266 
,  Indien  quoted,  65, 

64,  105,  136,  811,  336 
,  Orient  und  Occident, 

204,  343,  369,  370,  372, 

etc. 
,  Samaveda,  160, 170, 

198,  203,  237,  343,  346, 

348,  etc.,  etc. 
,   Sanskrit  grammar, 

263,  265,  441 


Bengali  dialect,  4£f,  32, 

118,  127,146,264,426, 

439 
Bbabra  inscription,    104, 

109,  115 
Bbagavata  Parana,  162 
i.  3,  24—350 
iv.  14,  43  ff— 411 
vii.  10,  18—350 
ix.  21,  llf— 496 
Bbamaba's  Manorama,  43 
Bbaratavarsba,  336 
Bbasba,  46,  67,  130,  136, 

161  f. 
Bbaskara    Acbarya,   161, 

178 
Bbava,  461 
Bbavya,  342 
Bbills,  487 
Bblme^vara,  428 
Bbisbma,  366 
Bbota,  49 
Bhotan,  487 
Bhrigu,  197 
Bbrigus,  279 
Bbur,  188 
Bbuvah,  188 
Blackie,  Prof.,  bis  note  on 

lUad,  ii.  813  f— 167 
Bobtlingk,  Dr.  0.— 

,  his  S'akuntala,  14 

,  his  Pauini,  164 

Bobtlingk    and   Roth's 

Lexicon,  187,  189,  204, 

224,  238,  346,  348,  350, 

360,  f,  368  f,  460  ff,  etc. 
BoUensen,  Dr.,  articles  by 

bim,  160 
Bopp,  Dr.P.,Comp.  Gram. 

228,  236,  489 
BrabmS,  U95, 

BrabmS  jyesbtbam,  |462 
Brahma  and  Brimha,  159, 

202,  432  f. 
BrSbman  (priest),  188,462 
Brahman      (caste)      298, 

456  ff,  462 
Brabmanas   (books),  163, 

176,  178  ff. 
Brahma  purana,  422 
Brahmavaivarta    Purana, 

162 
Brabmavarta,  303,  400 
Brajbhakba,  36,  39 
Breal,  M.,  on  tbe  geogra- 
phy of  the  Avesta,  314, 

334 
Bribad  Aranyaka  TJpani- 

shad,  216  f,  361 


INDEX. 


503 


Bjihaddevata,  164 

Brihat,  1S6 

Brockhaus,  H.,  his  Prabo- 

dhaohandrodaya,  14 
Buddha,  55, 115, 153,  360, 

494  ff. 
Buddhaghosa,  62,  72 
Buddhapriya,  60 
Buddhism,  55  ff. 
Buddhist  councils,  56 
Buddhists,  53  f,  351 
Bundehesh,  471 
Bunseu  on  the  geography 

ofthe  Avesta,  334,  481 
Burnouf,  M.  E.,   Bhaga- 

vata  Purana,  338 
,  Histoire  du  Buddh- 

isme  Tndien,  116, 123  f. 
,  Lotus  de  la  bonne 

loi,   65,  61,  72,  105  f, 

109  ff. 
Burnouf  and  Lassen,  on 

the  Pali,  68, 108 
Burrindu,  349 


Calchas,  196 
Caldwell's  Dravidian 

Gram.,  53,  415,  424  ff, 

486  ff. 
Campbell's  Telugu  Gram., 

48  f,  53,  424  f,  434  ff. 
Canarese    language,     32, 

260,  423  ff. 
Canoj,  49,  see  Kanouj 
Casian  mountains,  479 
Caspian  Sea,  481 
Caucasus,  481 
Cawnpore,  properly  Kanh- 

pur,  17 
Celtic  languages,  217 
Centaurs,  279 
Cerebral  letters,  441  f. 
Chakhra,  330 
Chandalika,  Chandall,  46, 

60 
Chandalas,  305,  310 
Chandideva^  Prakrita  di- 

pika,  46 
Chandrabhaga,  348 
Charanavyuha,  192 
Charmab'iras,  177 
Chhandas,  189 
Chhandogya  Upanishad, 
p.  585—396 
It.  17,  1—188 
Chenab,  345 


Childers,  Mr.  E.  C,  sug- 
gestions made,  and  ma- 
terials supplied,  by  him, 
22,  24  f,  28  f,  64,  76, 
83,  88  f,  110,  495. 

Chintamani,  435 

Chitrakuta,  409,  412 

Chitraratha,  347  f,  361 

Cholas,  422  f. 

Chorasmians,  292,  342 

Chrysostom,  495 

Chidikapai^achi,  dialect, 
48,  62,  428 

Chnmuri,  368 

Clough's  Pali  Grammar, 
65,  70,  73,  76 

Colebrooke,  Mr.  H.  T.,  his 
Essays,  178,  196,  200, 
203,  265,  326,  424 

Comparative  Philology, 
remarks  on,  217  ff. 

Comparative  Tables — ■ 
i.  Sanskrit,  Prakrit  and 
modern    vernaculars, 
13,  15  ff 
ii.  Prakrit  and  modem 

vernaculars,  27  ff. 
iii. — vii..  Sanskrit,  Ga- 
tha,   Pali,   and  Pra- 
krit, 76  ff. 
viii.  Sanskrit,  rock  in- 
scriptions and    Pali, 
111  ff. 
ix.  Sanskrit,  Persian,  & 

Arabic  words,  220 
—  Sanskrit,      Zend, 
and  Persian,  221  ff. 
X.  Sanskrit,      Zend, 
Greek,     and     Latin, 
230  ff. 
Sanskrit  &  Zend,  287  ff. 
Sanskrit    and    Telugu 
roots,  426  f. 
Comparison    of    Sanskrit 
and  Zend,  Greek  and 
Latin  pronouns,nouns, 
verbs,  etc.,  242  ff. 
Cophen,  see  Kophen 
Coromandel  coast,  401 
Cowell,  Prof.  E.   B.,  his 
Prakrita    prakas'a,    14, 
43  f,  48,  73  ff,  120. 

,  correction  made  by 

him,  174 

,note  inElphinstone's 

history,  476  f. 

,  opinion  referred  to, 

495 


Crawfurd,  Mr.  John — 
"  Language  as  a  test  of 
the  races  of  man,"  etc., 
282,  f. 

Cural,  436,  437 

Curtius,  Grundzijge  der 
Griech.  Etymologie,228, 
237,  239,  266 

Curzon,  Mr.  A.,  in  Jour. 
E.A.S.,  301  ff,  312  f, 
320  f,  357,  441,  443 

Cushitic  tribes,  419  f. 


Dabhiti  384,  387 
Dadhyach,  447 
Daevas,  299,  330 
Dahaka,  330 
Daityas,  395,  497 
Daksha,  420 
Dakshayam,  492 
Dakshinatya   dialect,   46, 

50 
Damilas,  60 

Dandin's  Kavyadar^a,  46  f. 
Danu,  383 
Danu,  371,  428 
Dandaka  forest,  408,  413 
Dandakas,  490 
Daradas,  338,  365 
Dasyus,  31,  145,  151,  213 

282,   291,    359  ff,   409, 

418,  443,  492 
Dasa,  361  f,  367  f,  etc. 
D'Alwis,     Mr.     J.,     his 

Kachchayana,  64,  65 
Dar^anas,  330 
Das'aratha,  406 
Dehli    pillar   inscription, 

104,  109 
Dekhan,  441  ff. 
Delius's   Radices    Pracri- 

ticse,  14 
Demodocus,  211 
Deotsu,  337 
Devapi,  168 
Devas,  176,  299 
Des'i,  De^yam,  147  ff, 
Deshyumoo       j427  ff. 
Desmoulins,  283 
Dharmaehakra,  495 
Dhatumala,  Sanskrit,  426 

,  Telugu,  425 

Dhauli   inscription,    104, 

109,  114 
Diespiter,  296 
DTghaNikaya,  61 
Dipankara,  60 


504 


INDEX. 


Divodasa,  379  f,  384,  389 

Dracharamam,  428 

Dravida,  260,  401,  422  f. 

DravidI,  dialect,  4B,  50, 
127,  425 

Dravidas,  355 

Dravidians,  443 

Drishadvati,  311,  345,  397, 
399  ff. 

Druhyu,  260 

Drvat'pa,  331 

Dualism,  478 

Dujak,  330 

Durga,  201 

Durga  or  Durgacharya, 
commentator  on  the 
Nirukta,  quoted,  156, 
165  ff,  173  f,  303  f. 

Duryodhana,  353 

Dusiyanta,  422 

Dwarf  avatar,  203 

Dyaus,  279 

E 

Ekalavya,  418 
Ekaparvataka,  405 
EUis,  Mr.  F.  "W. 
,  his  note  on  the  Dra- 

ridian    languages,    48, 

53,  424  ff. 
Elphinstone's  (Hon.  Mr.) 

History  of  India,  quoted 

or  referred  to,  304,  321, 

476  ff. 
Emodus,  479 
Erinnys,  279 
Euaspla,  345 
Euripides  quoted,  215 


Faesi,  his  note  on  Iliad  ii. 

813  f.— 157 
Eargard,  1st,  of  theVendi- 

dad,  314,  329'ff,  4S0  f. 
Fausholl's    Dhammapada, 

quoted,  71,  76 
Feridun,  or  Fredun,  296, 

476 
Fick,   August,  his  Vevgl. 

Worterbuch,   216,  228, 

257 
Finnish  languages,  441 
French  language,  261 

G 

Galava,  177 

Gandak,  GaudakI,  404  f. 

Gandarii,  Gandaritis,  342 


Gandhara,  Gandharis,  49, 

342,  349,    351  ff,   428, 

482 
Gandharvas,  175,  279 
Ganga,  341,  345,  482 
Gargya,  177 
Garhapatya  fire,  451 
Garroeas,  344 
Gatha  dialect  (Indian),  10, 

115  ff,  207,  210 
Gathas  (Zoroastrian),  332, 

468 
Gathin,  197 
Gau,  330 
Gaudi  dialect,  48,  50 


Gaurl,  344 

Gautama,  365,  418,  491  f, 

494 
Gaya,  350 
Gaya^iras,  204 
Geldart,  Rev.  G.  C,  his 

paper     "Language    no 

test  of  race,"  277,  467  f. 
Germans,  280 
GUgit,  337 
Girnar  inscription,  104  f, 

114 
Godaverl,  347,  408,  428 
Gogard,  or  Gokereu  tree, 

471 
Gomal,  343,  348 
Gomati,  843,  348,  493 
Gonds,  424 
Goldstiicker,  Dr.  Th.,  his 

Dictionary,  373,  463 

,  his  Panini,  153 

,   paragraphs   coutri- 

hutPd  by  him,  262  ff. 
Gopatha  Brahmana,  i.   1, 

1—156 
Gotama,  197 
Gotama  Eahugana,  402 
Govinda  Ananda,  307 
Govinda  deva's  Balarama- 

yana     and     Prasanna- 

ragbava,  14 
Gorresio's  Eamayana,  406 

ff,  419  f. 
Goryaia,  345 
Gramyam,     Gramvumoo 

speech,  49,  427  ff. 
Greek.  216,  254  ff. 
Greeks.  267  ff. 
Grihya  Sutras,  186,  421 
Guha,  407  f. 
Gundert,   Dr.  H..  on  the 

Dravidian  elements   in 

Sanskrit,  84 


Gurgan,  332 
Gurhwal,  335 
Guzerati  or  Gurjara  dia- 
lect, i,  7,  426 


Haag,  Dr.  F.  Vergleichung 
des  Prakrit  mit  den 
Eomanischen  Sprachen, 
147 

Haetumat,  330 

Haiva,  49 

Haoma,  297,  470  ff. 

Hall,  Dr.  F.,  his  Vasa- 
vadatta,  152 

Hamitic  tribes,  419  f. 

Hanuman,  157,  159 

Hapta  Hendu,  295,  300, 
331  ff. 

Hari,  431 

Harivan^a — 

1616,  1836—422 

7799—208 

9491—189 

Haraqaiti,  33i) 

Hariyupiya,  348 

Harivarsha,  326 

Haroyu,  314,  330 

Haug,  Prof.  M.,  199 

,  Ait.  Brahmana,  164, 

172,  184  f,  382,  397 

,  Das  Erste   Kapitel 

des  Veudidad,  329  ff. 

,    Brahma    und    die 

Brahmanen,  462 

,  Origin  of  Brahman- 
ism,  462 

Hebrew,  218 

Hebrew,  knowledge  of, 
how  preserved,  139 

Heeren,  Prof.,  332 

Hemachandra,  44,  51  f, 
67,  404 

Hermes,  279 

Herodotus  quoted,  215, 
292,  459 

Hesiod,  186 

llilmend,  332 

Himalaya  or  Himavat, 
303,  310,  324,328,835, 
340,  349,  400,  412,  480 

Hindi  dialect,  4  ff,  13,  16 
ff,  32,  118,  127,  146, 
227,  254,  425,  438  f, 
441 

Hindukush,  335,  340,  364 

Hnan,  340 

Hiranvati,  344 


INDEX. 


505 


Homer,  186,  216 

Hotri,  188 

Huiti,  466,  460,  464 

Humayuu,  6 

Humboldt,  481 

Hunaa,  443 

Hutokhsh,  464 

Huxley,  Prof.,  on  the 
"  Methods  and  results  of 
Ethnology,"  etc.,  282  ff. 

Hydaspes,  345 

Hyrcauia,  332 

I 
Ila,  323 

Iliad  quoted,  157 
Ilvala,  159,  414 
Indo-European  languages, 

217  ff. 
ludo-Scythians,  444 
Indra,   197  f,  201,   212  f, 

299,348,  359,361,373, 

447,  451,  etc. 
Indraprastha,  335 
Interpretation  of  the  Teda, 

article  on  the,  in  Journ. 

E.  A.  S.  173,  210,  255 
Iranians,  477  f,  480,  and 


IraTati,  342,  346,  348 
Kana,  294 
Kvarachandra      X^idyasa- 

gara  quoted,  162 
Italian    compared    with 

Prakrit,  147  ff. 
Italians,  280 
Itihasas,  161  f. 

J 

Jainas,  436 

Jamadagni,  447 

Janaka,  192,  404,  406 

Janaki  (Sita),  168 

Janasthana,  410 

Jemshed,  331,  476 

Jumna,  see  Yamuna 

Jupiter,  295 

Justi,  Dr.,  his  Handbuch 
der  Zendsprache,  220, 
223,  228.  244,  289,  299, 
459,  462 

Jyotishtoma,  381 

K 

Kahandha,  412 
Kabul,  332 
Kabulistan,  337 
Kaohchayana's  P^li  Gram- 
mar, 64,  60 


Kaiyyata,  400 
Kakshivat,  323,  361 
Kakula,  432 
Kala,  462 
Kalakavana,  400 
Kalakuta,  406 
Kalamukhas,  491 
Kales'vara,  428 
Kali,  408,  431,  463 
Kali,  221 
Kalinga,  64 
Kalidasa,  180 
Kalpasutras,  180  f. 
Kama,  462 

Kambojas,  259,  366,  366 
Kampana,  344 
Kandahar,  332 
Kanojana      \ 
Kanouj  [49,143,401 

KauTa  or  Kunva,  198,  431 
Kapardin,  201 
Kapurdigiri    inscription, 

104,  107,  114 
Karahataka,  490 
Karauja,  385 
Karatoya,  404  f. 
Karuapravaranas,  491 
Karnata,  260,  422 
Kamataka     dialect,     see 


Kartavirya,  420  f. 
Kashmir,  329,  337 
Ka^ika,  351 
Ka^mlras,  354 
Ka^yapa,  492 
Kata,  197 
Kathaka,  180 
Katthakya,  177 
Kathasarit-sagara,  495 
Katyayana,  58  f,  179,  193 
KaushitaklBrahmana,  163, 

184, 192,  328 
Kaushitakins,  192 
Kautsa  on  the  uselessness 

of  the  Nirukta,  170  ff. 
Kautsa,  177 
Kava  W,  297 
Kavasha  Ailusha,  398, 465 
Kaveri  river,  347 
Kavya  chandrika,  47 
Kavya  TJs'anas,  297 
Kedarnath,  412 
Kemaon,  335,  344 
Kekaya,  48,  406,  428 
Kerakas,  491 
I  Keralas,  422  f. 
Keres'aspa,  296 


Kern,  Prof.  H.,   on    the 

triple  Veda,  446 
,  on  the  age  of  the 

A.V.,  446  f. 
,  on  the  antiquity  of 

castes,  454  ff. 
Khamil,  484 
Khara,  410,  416 
Kha^as,  482 
Khetudas,  459 
Khila,  193,  199,  450 
Khnenta,  330 
Khoes,  345 
Khoten,  484 
Khokand,  481 
Khonar,  345 

Kiepert,  Dr.,  on  the  geo- 
graphy of  the  Vendidad, 

332,  334 
Kikata,  347,  360,  367  f. 
Kilata,  386,  396 
Kiratas,  366,  396,  491 
Koas,  349 
Kola,  422 
Kolagiri,  491 
Kols,  423,  487 
Kophen  river,  339,  342  ff. 
Koran,  219 
Kos'ala,  405 
Kos'alas,  403  f. 
"Kosti    (sacred    girdle    of 

Parsees),  298 
Kraushtaki,  177 
Kravyad,  390,  418 
Krisa^va,  296 
Krivi,  396 
Krishna,  201 
Krishna  (river),  432 
Krumu,  343  ff,  348,  493 
Kshatriya,  298,  310,  356, 

456,  463,  494 
Kubha,  339,343  ff,  348,493 
Kuhn,  Prof.  Adalbert,  on 

the  inserted   letters  in 

Pali,  70 
,  in  Indische  Studien, 

294 
• ,  in  Zeitsch.  fiir  die 

Kunde     des     Morgen- 

landes,  160 
,     Herahkunft     des 

Feuers,  279,  361,  377 
and  Schleicher's  Bei- 

trage,  468,  477  ff. 
Kuhn,    Dr.    Ernest,    his 

translation  of  Kachcha- 

yana,  64 
Kulitara,  383 
KiiUuka  Bhatta,  401 


506 


INDEX. 


Kumarila  Bhatta,  494 
Kimtala,  49,  428 
Kurus,  405 
Kuruiangala,  405 
Kunikshetra,  400,  482 
Kurum,  343,  348 
Kurutthama,  422 
Kutsa,  361,  376,  etc. 
Kuyava,  385 


Lakshmana,  407,412, 417, ' 

498 
Lakslimldhara's  Shadbha- 

sha  Chandrika,  44)  48 
LaUta  vistara,  10,  76,  89, 

115  ff,  210 
Langlois's  Eigveda,    196. 

199,  340,  346 
Languages   derived   from 

Latin,  134,  146    ' 
Lassen's    Indische  Alter- 

thumskunde  (or,  Indian 

Antiquities),  42,  55,  ff, 

58,  104  f,  108  f,  124, 

132  ff,  163,   168,  581, 

308,   336,  342,  347  ff, 

406,  408,  444 
Institutiones  linguae , 

Pracriticae,  14,  30,  35  ff, 

45  f,  68 

Zeitschriffc  fiir   die 

Kunde  des  Morgenlandes, 
326,  353,  366 
Latin,  146,  149,  216,  227, 

254  ff. 
in  the  middle  ages, 

139 
Letto  -  Slavonic    tongues, 

217 
Linga,  202 
Lit.  CentralMatt,  147 
Lohamukhas,  491 
Lohas,  355 
Lomapada,  406 

M 

Madhusudana     SarasvatI, 

189 
Madhwacharya,  163 
Madras,  482  ff. 
MadravatT,  491 
Madhyade^a,  303,  400  f. 
Magadha,  350  f,  464 
MagadhI  dialect,  45  f,  48, 

50f,  54,68,60,  63,108, 

114  f,  428 


Mahabharata,  458 
i. 
732—207 
2644,  2606,  &  3188  ff 

—386 
2439  ff— 353 
3478—423 
3533—260 
4346—327 
4719  ff— 326 

ii. 
793  ff— 404 
1025,  1031  f— 364 
1045  ff— 326 
1078—402 
1169  ff— 490 

iii. 
5074,  10538—398 
10545  f— 328 
12746  ff— 323 
15197,  15918—416 
15981—417 

vi. 
333—344 
vii. 
4747  ff— 365 

viii. 
1407  ff— 383 
2025  ff— 482  f. 

ix. 
2960—398 

z. 
785—352 
xii. 
2429  ff,  6293  ff— 365 
6293  ff— 491  f. 

xiii. 
2606  ff— 466 
7468  ff— 383 

xiv. 
180—352 
2472—418 
Mahabhasbya,  400 

pp.  22,  &  63—164 
p.  62—366 
p.  104—161 

,  Vivarana,  on,  206 

Mabadeva,  194,  201  f. 
Mabarasbtri  dialect,  36  ff, 
43  ff,  48,  60  f,  66,  65, 
428,  488 
Mabavanfe  (or  Mabawan- 

so),  62  f. 
Mabendraj  66  f,  61,  63 
Mabendra  bills,  428 
Mabe^a,  428 

Mabidhara'a  commentary, 
ontheVaj.  S.,  164, 186, 
193 


Mabishmati,  421 

Mabmud  of  Gbazni,  336 

Mahommed,  218 

Mabratti  dialect,  4,  7,  15 
ff,  32,  118,  127,  146, 
254,  426,  438,  486 

Maitreya,  183 

Mala  Charmanvati,  405 

Malantus,  344" 

Malamantus,  344 

Malayalim  language,  32, 
260,  423  ff. 

Mamidi  Vencaya,  427  ff. 

Manava    dbarma   ^astra, 
138,  141 

,  quoted,  i  23—188 

ii.  17  ff— 399 

—  23—346 

—  69—298 
iii.  13—466 
X.  12—305, 

—  46—161,  364 
xi.  20—396 

MandaUni,  412 

Mantra,  179 

Manu,  184,  196, 260,  279, 

323,  340,  360  f,  470,  etc. 
Manu  Svayambhu,  431 
Manyu,  362 
Marka,  386 
Maruts,  323,  369 
Marudvridba,  341 
Marwar,  339 
Mathavas,  403 
Mathiab  pillar,  104 
Matbura,  281,  401 
Matsyas,  400 
Matsyapurana,  422 
Megbavahana,  132 
Medea,  292 
Medes,  292 
Medbafitbi,  447 
Medinikosba,  463 
Megastbenes,  327 
Mehatnu,  343 
Merv,  332 
Minos,  279 
Mir  Amman,  6 
Mitbila,  405  f. 
Mitbra,  297,  472 
Mitra,  297 

Mlecbbas,  161,  213,  366  f. 
Moleswortb's     MabratM 

Dictionary,  266 
Monkeys,  417  ff 
M6uru,.800 

Mrichohhakatt,  11  f,14,161 
Mridbrayach,  376 
Mrigaya,  375 


INDEX. 


507 


MOravats,  361  f. 

MUUer,  Prof.  Max— 

,  "Chips,"  H6,  153, 

164  f,  279,  281,  300, 
310,  314,  340 

,  Essay  on  the  Bengali 

language,  315 

,  Ano.  Sansk.  Litera- 
ture, 76,  104,  163,  161, 
164,  168,  173  f,  180, 
184  f,  187,  189  ff,  310 

,  in  Journ.  Germ.  Or. 

Society,  366 

,   Languages  of   the 

seat  of  war,  369 

,  Last  results  of  Per- 
sian researches,  290,  300 

,  of  Sanskrit  do.,  153 

,    of  Turanian    do., 

281,  311,  328,  etc. 

,  Lectures  on  lan- 
guage, 314 

,  Translation  of  E.V. 

X.  129—349 

art.  in  "Nature," 493 

Mnnjavat,  362 

Muradevas,  391 

Murchison,  Sir  E.,  481 

Musalmans,  219 

Mustagh,  334,  480 

Mutibas,  364 

N 
Nadir  Shah,  336 
Nages'a  Bhatta,  206 
Nagnajit,  363 
Nahusha,  422 
Naichas'akha,  360 
Naidanas,  176 
Nairuktas,  176 
Namuchi,  387 
Nannapa,  or    Nunniah 

Bhut,  432 
Narada,  353 
Narmada,  347,  421 
Natl  dialect,  48 
Nepala,  49,  428 
Neriosengh's     Sanskrit 

transl.  of  theAvesta,  456 
Nigama,  179 
Nighantus   (or   Naighan- 

tuka),   166,   169,    186, 

266,  299 
Nirukta,  169,  179,  186 
i. 
1—165 

■  4f— 151 
16—169,  171 
20—165  f 


Nirukta — continued. 

ii. 
2—162,  366 
11—196 
16—174 
23—346 

iii. 
8—175 

iv. 
16—344 

vi. 
7—207 
31—377 
32—350 

vii. 
1—195 
16—197 
viii. 
21  f— 175 

LX. 

26—342 
8-362 

X. 

42—195 
10,  46—196 

xii 
1,  19—176 
41—177 
Niruktaparis'ishta — 
i.  9-166 
i.  12—177 
Nisa,Nisai,Nis8ea,330,  332 
Nishadas,  406  ff,  411,418 
Nishamhhu,  428 
Nodhas,  197 

North  Indian  Dialects,  4 
Noldeke,   Prof.,    on    the 
Semitic  and  Indo-Euro- 
pean languages,  219 
Norris,  Mr.  E.,   on    the 
origin  of  the  cerebrals 
in  Sanskrit,  440  f. 
Nyayamalavistara,  quoted, 
63,  179 

0 

Odras,  355,  400 
Odyssey,  quoted,  211 
(Edipus,  196 
Olympus,  480 
Origin    of   non  -  Sanskrit 

words  ia  Temaculars,  7, 

31  f. 
Orissa,  401 
Ormuzd,   Oromazes,   334, 

472 
Orpheus,  279 
Osthakarnakas,  421 
Ottorocorra,  327 


Oudh,  404 
Oxus,  318,  480  f. 


Fadma  lake,  405 

— —  Purana,  411 

Pahlavas,  259 

Paingins,  192 

Pairika  Xhnathaiti,  330 

Pai^aichi  dialect,  43,  48, 

50,  62,  428 
Pakas'asani,  364 
k  Pali  language,  10  f,  53  ff, 
207,  214,  259 
Paman,  351 
Pamer,  481,  484 
Pampa,  412 
Panchajana,  175 
Panchaias,  396,  400 
Panchali  dialect,  127 
Panchavim^a  Brahmana 

13,  11—386 
Pandya,  48  f,  422,  428 
Panini,  153 

i.  2,  36—152 
i.  4,  20—162 
ii.  4,  10—400 
iii.  2,  108—162 
iii.  3,  78—354 
iv.  2,117  f— 364 
vi.  3,  20—152 
■vi.  4,  102—206 
vii.  2,  64^206 
Panis,  377 
Panjab,  295.  336  f. 
Panjkora,  337,  344 
Parahaoma,  471 
Faramakambojas,  365 
Faraiurama,  421 
Paripatra,  400 
Parnaya,  385 
Parsees,  298 
Parthians,  292,  342 
Faruchhepa,  195 
Parvata,  353,  373 
Parushni,  341,  345,  348 
Fasunampati,  202 
Fathya  Srasti,  328 
Panrava,  364 
Pavamanya,  474 
Pericles,  186 
Persian  language,  217  ff. 
Persians,  267  ff. 
Peukelseetis,  344 
PhaUus,  202 
Phlegyes,  279 
Pictet,  Ad.,  Origines  Indo- 
Europeennes,  268,  264, 
266ff,272,294,317ff,334 


508 


INDEX. 


Pipru,  375,  378 

Pisachas,  363 

Pitakattaya,  56  f. 

Pishtra,  466 

Pitris,  176 

Plutarch,  de  Isid.  et  Osir. 

quoted,  471  f. 
Pluto,  472 
Portuguese,  281 
Pourui'aspa,  474 
Prachyas,  356 
Prahrada,  353 
Prahasta,  159 
Prajapati,  185,  188,  372, 

etc. 
Prakrit,  meaning  of   the 

word,  51,  66  f. 
Prakrit,  dialects,  10  ff,  214, 

221,  260  f. 
,  Scenic  or  Dramatic, 

■were  they  spoken  ?  34  ff. 
Pramaganda,  350 
Prasannaraghaya,  76,  89, 

103 
Prasthalas,  483 
Prasthanabheda,  quoted, 

190 
Prati^akhyas,  186,  356 
Praya^a,  400  f. 
Prayajas,  176  f. 
Priests  in  the  Vedic  age, 

in  Joum.  K.A.S.,  374, 

378 
Prinsep,  Mr.  James,  deci- 
pherer of  Indian  Inscrip- 
tions, 104,  106 
Priyadar^in   or   Piyadasi, 

104,  108,  115 
Priyamedha,  341 
Ptolemy,  the  geographer, 

327,  346,  479 
Pukkasas,  50 
Pulastya,  491 
Pulindas,  364 
Punarhha,  492 
Pundras    or    Paundrakas, 

366,  364,  401 
Punjshir,  345 
Puranaa,  161  f. 
Puru,  260,  376  f.  etc. 
Purukutsa,  344,  370,  etc. 
Purumilha,  447 
Pururavas,  387 
Purusha,  465 
Purushamedha,  193 
Purusha-sukt3,199,  454f., 

468,  462  f. 
Pushan,  201,  421 


Eadhia  pillar,  104 
Eagha,  330 

Ra^fhuvanta  x.  16 — 173 
Eajadharman,  492 
Rajan,  Rajanya,  463, 465  f. 
Rajataranginl,  quoted,  483 
Rajendralal  Mitra,  Babu, 

his  art.  in  Joum.  As. 

Society,  Beng.  115  ff. 
Rakshases  or    Rakshasas, 

175,    198,    364,   408  ff, 

491 
Rama,  201,   407  ff,    498, 

499 
Rama,  son  of  Mrigu,  183 
Rama  Tarkavagls'a's  Pra- 

kritakalpataru,  46,  52 
Raraanuja,  163,  434 
Ramayana, — 139,  498 
,  quoted 


f 


12,  20  ff— 406 

ii. 
50,  33  ff— ' 
69,  3—25 

116,  11  ff— 409 
iii. 

1,  1—408 

2,  4  ff-410 
4,  22-411 
6,  15  ff— 412 

9,  24—413 

10,  10  ff— 412 

11,  31—408 
11,  55  ff— 414 
11,  56—159 
11,  79—413 

17,  22—416 
30,  12—416 

32,  12,  19-416  f 
36,  70—416 
46,  14—417 
72,  18—417 

iv. 
26,  29  ff— 417 
40,  26  ff— 491 
43,  38,  67—325 

V. 

18,  18  f— 159 
30,  17  ff— 157 
82,  3—159 
91,  20—416 

vi. 

19,  24—416 
104,  2—169 

117,  14—415 


Eantideva,  496 
Rasa,  343  ff,  348  f. 
RasavahinI,  76 
Rathaeshtao,)  466,   460, 
Ratheshtha,  /  462,  464 
Rathantara,  166 
Ratrisukta,  460 
Rauhina,  388 
Eavana,  167  f,  416,  421, 

498  f. 
Eavee  (river),  345 
Eavi  the  sun,  189 
Eawlinson's     (Rev.     G.) 

Herodotus,     292,    314, 

342,  356 
Eegnier.  M.  Ad.  Traite  de 

la  formation  des  mots 

dans  la  langue  Grecque, 

262 
' — ,  E'tude  BUT  I'idiome 

des  Vedas,  375 
Eei,  332 
Eenan,    E.,  Histoire  des 

langues  Semitiques,  218 

f,  269,  394 
Eephaim,  419 
Rhode,  Dr.,  333 
Ribhu,  279 
Rigveda,  188,  445 
Rigveda — i. 

1,  2—197 
-,  4—209 
-,  7—209 

2,  1—205 

3,  7—205 
6,  3—209 
6,  5—209 

16,  3—209 

17,  6—209 

21,  1-209 

22,  16—21—203 
24,  1  f— 185 

27,  13—186 

33,  4,  5—363,  371, 

384 
33,  8-394 
35,  6—470 
37,  4—211 
48,  14—197 

61,  6—378 

— ,  8,  9—291,  359, 

363 
— ,  6—385 
63,  8  ff~S85 

62,  13—197 

63,  7—378 

64,  14—323 
78,  4—388 
89,  10-173 


INDEX. 


509 


Eigveda — eontintied, 
91,  1,  5,  8,  12,  21— 
473  f 

100,  8-364 
— ,  10—370 
— ,  15—372 
— ,  18—369 

101,  1—375 
101,  5—371 

103,  3—291,  859, 
363,  378 

104,  3—385 
108,  7—463,  465 
112,  14—389 
114,  1—201 
117,  21—369,  363 
126,  1,  7—342 

130,  7—384 
— ,  8—360 

131,  4—372,  379 

132,  4—372 
133, 1—373 
164,  46—155 
169,  3—173 
174,  2-376,  377 

— ,  8—378 
176,  4—384 
189,  3—390 
ii. 

I,  11—323 

II,  18—371 
12,  2—388 
12,  4—282,  371 
— ,  11—383 
— ,  12—388 

14,  4-388 
— ,  6-378 

15,  4—384 

19,  6—378 

20,  7—369,  375 
— ,  8—379 
30,  8—386 

iii. 
12,  6—378 

16,  4—209 
23,  4—345 
30,  15  ff— 390 
32,  13—197 
34,  8,  9—282,  360,  4 

363,  389 

53, 14—369 

iv. 

4,  15—419 

5,  3—211 
16,  9—372 
— y  13—375. 
23,  7—373 
26,  1,  2—360 
— ,  a— 378 


28,  4—371 
30,  13—384 
— ,  14—384 

— ,  15,  21—386 
— ,  18—347,  361 
— ,  20—380 

41,  2—373 

60,  8  f-463,  466 
57,  6  f— 421 

T. 

2,  3—373 

7,  10—372,  388 

20,  2—373 

29,  9,  10—376,  377, 
392 

30,  7,  9—387 

32,  8—376 

42,  9—372 
44,  8—173 

62,  17—347 

63,  9—343 

64,  16—323 
70,  3—369 

Tl. 
4,8-323 
12,  4—173 
14,  3—372 
18,  3—370 

20,  10—379 
— ,  11—361 

22,  10-363 

23,  4—209 

25,  2,  3—361,  363 

26,  5—384 

31,  4—879 

33,  3—361,  363 

44,  13—197 

45,  31—347 

47,  24—461 

48,  8—323 

60,  6—361,  363 

61,  2,  13—346 
— ,  3,  370 

vii. 
6,  3—376 
— ,  6—361 
6,  3—377,  378 

18,  6—369 
— ,  6-374 
— ,  13—377 
— ,  19—347 

19,  3—370 
— ,  2—385 

21,  5—391 

22,  9—198 
33,  5—206 
83,  1—361 
93,  1,  2—346 


Eigveda — contimieii. 

99,  4—362 

100,  4—371 
104,  1,  2—390 

viii. 

I,  28—380 
7,  9—461 
14,  14—388 

17,  14—380 

18,  13—393 

19,  37—344 
22,  6—360 
24,  27—362 
— ,  30—344 
32,  26—387 

40,  6—384 
— ,  10—387 
69,  10,  11—372 

62,  18—376 
66,  4-173 
84,  3—380 
87,  6—380 

is. 
1,.8— 360 

II,  2—461 

41,  1—375 
61,  2—389 

73,  5—376 

74,  8—323 
92,  6—360 
113,  7  ff— 469 

X. 

22,  7,  8—373 
27,  6—374 
34,  1—352 
38,  3—362 
43,  4^360 

48,  1—361 
— ,  2-461 
— ,  7—374 

49,  3—362 

63,  4—176 

64,  1—387 

64,  9—343 

65,  11—362 
69,  6—385 
71,  3—211 
73,  7—387 

75,  6—341 
— ,  6—343   • 
83,  1—362 
— ,  6—369 

86,  19—369 

87,  2  ff,  16— 391,  418 

88,  10—204 

89,  7—379 
90—454  f,,  458 

90,  9—189 
95,  7—387 


510 


INDEX. 


99,  3—391 
99,  6—388 

102,  3—362 

103,  1—172 
105,  8—374 
121,  4—349 
126,  4—209 

— ,  5—211 
133,  2—172 
138,  3—362 
146,  1,  6—393 

Riji^van,  376,  378,  385 

Rishabha,  197 

RisUkas,  366 

RishiB,  196  ff. 

Eitter,  Dr.,  334 

Rock  and  pillar  inscrip- 
tions, 59,  104  ff. 

Romakas,  491 

Romans,  267  ff. 

Rosen  (Dr.)  Rigveda,  370 

Eoth,  Dr.  Rudolf,  art.  in 
Joum.  Ger.  Or.  Society, 
quoted,  67,  153,  339  _ 

,  Literature  and  his- 
tory of  the  Veda,  170, 
191,  335,  338,  341, 347, 
351,  355,  369,  446 

,  Nirukta,  164,   166, 

169,  176,  180  f,  186, 
211,  343  f,  348,  366, 
360,  etc. 

,  Dissertation  on  the 

A.V.,  173,  447 

,  art.  inlndisohe  Stud., 

185 

Eudolphi,  283 

Rudra,  194,  201,  352, 383, 
420 

Rudradaraan,  132 

Rupasiddhi  (a  Pali  Gram- 
mar), 54,  60 

S 

S'abari  or  Sayari  dialect, 

46,60 
Sadanlra,  403  ff,  442 
Sagara,  422 
Sahasanka,  160 
Sahya,  48 
Sahityadarpana,  50 
S'akas,  60,  365,  443 
S'akalika,  S'akaliki,  354 
S'akalya,  177 
S'akapuni,  177,  204 
S'akari  dialect,  46,  50 


S'akatayana,  177 
S'akuni,  363 
S'akuntala,  14 
S'akyamuui,  494 
S'akyasinha,  494 
Sama  Keres'aspa,  296 
Samanam  Sevishta,  473 
Samaveda,  188,  191,  445 
S'ambara,  368,  378,  389, 

etc. 
Sanakas,  372 
Sandhi,  141 
S'anda  386 
S'andikas,  386 
Sanhitas,  four  Vedic,  187 
Sanjayantl,  491 
S'ankaracharya,  434 
,    on    Brihad   Ar. 

TTp.  164 
S'aukhayana  Br.,  328 
Sanskrit,  44,  47  f. 


Sapta  Sittdhavas,  296,  300 
S'arad,  380 
Sarameya,  279 
S'aranyu,  279 
SarasTata,  398 
Sarasvat,  346 
Sarasvati     (river),    310  f. 

338  ff,   345  ff,  370,  397 

ff,  441 
SarasTati   (goddess)    329, 

399 
Sarasvati-kanthahharaua, 

160 
Sarayu,  314,  343  ff,  348  f, 

361,  405 
S'arva,  202,  299,  451 
S'atabalaksha,  177 
S'atadru,  339 
SatyahaTya,,  324 
S'atapatha  Brahmana — 
1.  1,  4,  14—386 

—  3,  5,  2—173 

—  4,  1,  10  ff— 402 

—  6,  3,  1  ff— 388 

—  7,  3,  8—202 
ii.  2,  2,  8  ff— 372 

—  6,2,  17—352 
iii.  2,  1,  23—114 
iT.  2,  1,  5  f— 386 

—  4,  4,  3  ff,  14—381 

—  6,  7,  1—187 
viii.  1,  4,  10—352 
xi.  3,  1,  2—404 

—  6,  1,  10,  12—163 

—  6,  2,  1—404 
xiU.  4,  3,  7  f— 189 

—  5,  4,  6—184 


S'atapatha  B. — cont, 

—  6,  4,  7—396 

—  8,  1,  5—485 
xiv.  4,  2,  22—184 
—6,  11,  2—156 

S'atyayana  Brahmana,  184 

Saujata,  183 

S'aunaka,  164 

S'anraseni  dialect,  36  f,  43 
ff,  48,  50  f,  69  f,  108, 
127,  428 

S'avaras,  366 

Sayana's  commentary  on 
R.V.,  quoted,  166,  164, 
179,  184,  186, 197, 212, 
299,  350,  360,  363, 463, 
etc. 

Schlegel,  A.  W.  Ton,  his 
Essais,  281,  306,  335, 
466 

Schleicher,  August,  Com- 
pendium der  Vergl. 
Grammat.  der  Indog. 
Sprachen,  216,  229  f, 
245,  490 

Scythians  and  their  lan- 
guage, 486  ff. 

Seleucus,  336 

Semiramis,  336 

Semitic  languageSj  217  ff. 

Serica,  479 

S'esha,  163 

Setubandha,  48 

Sewat  or  Suwad,  344  f. 

Shen  Tamil,  436 

Siccacollum,  432 

S'imyus,  369 

Sindhu  (Indus)  341  ff,  482 

Sindhugandharas,  483 

Sindhukshit,  341 

SindhusauvTras,  406,  483 

S'ipha,  385 

Sirmur,  335 

S'isnadeva,  391 

Sita,  157f,413,  417,  421, 
498 

Sita  (the  furrow)  421 

S'iva,  201  f,  204,  299, 420 

Sizyges,  479 

Skambha,  452 

Slavonic  languages,  218 

Smritis,  163,  179 


Sobhari,  344 
Sogdiana,  332,  481 
Sogdians,  342,  468 
Soma,  381,  469  ff. 
Somagiri,  325 
Soochundra,  431 


INDEX. 


511 


de 


Dr.  TP.,  art.    m 
"Kuhu  and  Schleicher's 

Beitrage,  etc.,  287,  298, 

468  f,  477  ff. 
.  Avesta,  293  ff,  298 

ff,'312,  329ff,  466f. 

,  KammaTakya,  63,76 

S'rauta  Butras,  186 
S'rls'ailam,  428 
Stenzler's  (Dr.  A.)  Mrich- 

chhakatT,  14 
Stevenson,  Rev.  Dr.  J.,  on 

the  adoption  of  words 

into  Sanskrit,  33 
,  on  the  affinity  of  the 

northern  and  southern 

non  -  Arian 

485  f. 

,  Samaveda,  470 

Sthaidashthm,  177 
Streiter,     Dissertatio 

Sunahsepho,  185 
Subala,  353 
Siidas,  361 
S'uddhodana,  494  ff. 
Sudhesha,  49 
S'udras,  304  f,   310,  364, 

483 
Sudum,  349 
Sughdha,  330 
Sugrlva,  417 
S'ukra,  386 
Sultan  Mahmud,  6 
S'unas's'epa,  184 
Snrabhlpattana,  491 
S'urparaka,  490 
Surya,  376 
Susartu,  343  ff. 
S'ushmina,  325 
S'ushna,  362,  etc. 
Sushoma,  342,  348 
Sus'ravas,  385 
Sutlej,  345  (see  S'utudri) 
Sutras,  179 
Sffltrapitaka,  56 
S'utudri  341,  345 
S'uvastu,  344 
Svanaya,  342 
Svar,  188 
Svarjit,  353 
S'veti,  343,  348  f. 
Syriao,  218' 


47  ff. 


Tadbhara, 

Tadbhavam,  ,  .„_  ~ 
TudbhuTumoo,  )*'''"• 
Taitiki,  177 


Tajiks,  484 
Takman,  351 
Takshaka,  451 
Talakata,  490 
Tambapanni,  60 
Tamil  language,  32,  260, 

423  ff. 
Tamulians,  303 
Taittiriya  Brahmana — 

Commentary  on — 
,     i.  5,  9,  2—156 

Do.  Tol.  ii.  p.  842—346 
Taittiriya  Sanhita,  184 
i.  2,  1—172 

—  6,  1,  1—202 
v.  5,  7,  3—203 
vi.  2,  3—382 

—  4,  7,  3—212 

—  4,  iO,  1—386 
p.  466—202 
Comm.  on,  p.  9 — 163 

Tandaka  Brahmana,  184 
Tartar  languages,  441 
Tatsama,        )    47  ff 
Tatsamam,     |    iLn'a 
Tutsumumoo  )  .^^' ^- 

?&a,    1260,428 
Telugu  language,  32, 127, 

260,  423  ff. 
Teutonic  languages,  218 

tribes,  280 

Tiresias,  196 

Thagurian  mountains,  479 
Thraetaono,  296,  330,  474 
Titans,  363 
Trasadasyu,  344,  370 
Trayi  vidya,  187,  445 
Trilinga,  428  f,  433 
Trimurti,  202 
Trishtama,  343,  348 
Trita,  296,  388,  474 
Tritsus,  205,  377 
Trifikrama,  203 
Troyer,  M.,  EajataranginI, 

483 
Tullberg's  MalaTika  Agni- 

mitra,  14 
Turfan,  484 
Tumour,  M.,  his   Maha- 

wanso,  quoted  or  referred 

to,  53,  55,  57,  60  f,  76 
,  art.  in  Jour.  As. 

Soc.  of  Bengal,  110 
Turvasu,  260,  348,  422 
Turvayana,  386 
Tvashtri,~175,  388 


U 

Uchchhishta,  189 

Udgatri,  188 

Udlchyas,  356 

XJjjvalaladatta'sTJiiadi  Su- 
tras, Prof.  Aufrecht's 
edition  of,  490 

Uloka,  TOagu,  435,  468 

TJnyudeshyumoo,  49 

Upanishads,  163,  176,  200 

Upasad,  381 

Urana,  388 

TJranos,  279 

Urdu  dialect,  6  f. 

Frunjira,  348 

TJrva,  330 

TOanas,  361,  386 

TJshas,  452 

Us'inaras,  354 

Utkali  dialect,  46 

Utkila,  197 

Utsavasanketas,  364 

trtsu-deshyumoo,  49  (see 
Atsu) 

Uttarakurus,  324  ff,  337, 
339 

TJttara  Madras,  324,  339 


Vach,  211  ff,  329 

Vaekereta,  330 

Vahlika,  48  (see  Bahlika) ; 

ditto  dialect,  60 
Vaibhojas,  260 
Vais'ravana,  417 
Vai^ya,  298,  310,456,483 
Vaivasvata,  469 
Yajasaneyi  Tajurveda,  193 
Vajasaneyi  Sanhita — 

3,  61—352 

5,  8  and  commentary, 
380  f 

8,  56—461 

16,  54—172 

18,  52—198 

22,  22—462 

23,  22  f— 122 
Vala,  363 

Valakhilya  ii.  8 — 370 
ValakhUya —     * 

iv.  3—204 

xi.  6—211 
Valmiki,  408 
Vamadeva,  184,  211,  361 
Vamadevya,  156 
Vanaras,  or  monkeys,  419 
Vangrida,  385 


612 


INDEX. 


Varaha  Mihira,  quoted,  6 

Varohin,  386 

Vararuohi,  12,  14,  43,  62, 

59,  75,  148,  264 
Varena,  330 
Varshyayani,  177 
Varuna,  212, 279,  297,  etc. 
Varvaras,  365 
Vasishtha,  184,  198,  205, 

389,  447 
Vas'triya    fsliiiyant,    456, 

460,  464 
Vastu,  344 
Vatapi,  414 
Vayu,  163,  188,  205,  213, 

297 
Vayu  Purana,  421  f. 
Veda,  179  f,  186 
Vedangas,  179 
Vedartha  prakas'a,  coram. 

on  Taitt.  S.,  quoted,  163 
Vedayatl,  498 
Vedavyasa,  199 
Vedic  Sanskrit,  forms  of, 

206  ff. 
Veudidad,  498 
Vendidad,  first  fargard  of, 

314,  329  ff,  418 

• 2nd  do.,  331 

Verethragna,  Verethraya, 

317,  474 
Vehrtana,  330 
Vernaculars  of  India,  their 

antiquity,  7  ff. 
Vibhashas,  46 
Vibhishana,  416,  490 
Vidathin,  376 
Videgha,  tbe  Matbava,  402 
Videhas,  403  f. 
Vikramaditya,   135,    160, 

444 
Vikramorva^I,  12 
Vimadas,  198 
Vina^ana,  391,  400  f. 
Vinayaka  Bhatta,  329 
Vinayapitaka,  56 
Vindhya,"303  f,  309,  339, 

349,  408,  414 
Vipa^,  342,  345,  348 
Viradba,  410  f. 
Vishnu,  181,  202  ff,  362, 

etc. 
Vishnupada,  204 
Vishnupurana,   162,   269, 

421,  484 
Vi^iSipra,  392 


Vis'vamitra,  178,197,364, 

379,  389,  413,  422 
Vis've-devali,  185,  205,343 
Vitasta,  341,  344,  348 
ViTasvat,Vivanhvant,  296, 

470 
Vivien  de  St.  Maftin,xxiT. 

f,  348 
Vratyas,  351,  483 
Vrindavana,  401 
Vrishalas,  401,  422 
Vritra,  175  f,  363,  etc. 
Vritrahan  317,  389,  474 
Vyavaharikl  (vak)  67, 156 
Vullers,   Dr.    J.  A.,    his 

Persian  and  Latin  Lex., 

and  Persian  Grammar, 

220,  223 
Vyasa,  398        , 

ditto,  408 

"W 

Weber's  BhagavatI,  14 

Essay  on  the  Eama- 

yana,  421 

Indische  Lit.    ges- 

obichte,  105,  144,  152, 
184,  187,  191,193,339, 
361,  408,  421 

Indische     Skizzen, 

217,  309,  317,  339 

Indische  Studien,  62, 

105,  107, 125,  129, 152, 

154,  192,  202,265,324, 

328,  339,  351,  354,  etc. 
article  in  Jour.  Ger. 

Or.  Soc.  66,  157 
MalaTika  and  Agui- 

mitra,  106 
Eamatapaniya  TJpa- 

nishad,  421 
Saptas'ataka  of  Hala, 

14,76 
Vajasaneyi  Sanhitse 

specimen,  130 
■  in  Lit.  Centralblatt, 

399 
Wheeler,     Mr.    Talboye, 

his  history  of  India,  421 
Whitney,  Prof.  W.  D.,  his 

art.  in  Jour.  Araer.  Or. 

Society,  187,  190,  194, 

196,  210,  446,  474 
,  art.  in  North  Amer. 

Eeview,  286 


Wilson,  ProC  H.  H.,  Ari- 
ana  Antiqua,  344 

,    EigYeda    Sanhita, 

164,  186,  194,201,203, 
.  323,  369  f. 

,  Sanskrit  Gram.,  208 

,  Vishnu  Purana,  342, 

398,401,  411,  420  f 

,  Theatre  of  the  Hin- 
dus, 34,  168.    ' 

,  articles  and  notice 

in  Jour.  E.A.S.  104  ff, 
106,  109,  111  ff,  185 

Wilson,  Rev.  Dr.  J.,  notes 
on  the  Mahratti  lan- 
guage, 26,  486 

,  India  three  thousand 

years  ago,  390 

Windischmann,  Ueber  den 
Somacultus  der  Arier, 
297,  469  ff. 

,  Mithra,  297 

T 

Tadu,  260,  348 
Tadaras,  260,  420 
Tajnaparibhasha,  179 
Tajnavalkya,  192,298,404 
Tajnikas,  176 
Tajurveda,  188,  192,  446 
Yama,  296,  416,  469  f. 
Tamuna,  341,  345  ff,  482 
Tarkhand,  484 
Taska,  151,  153,  164 
Tas'na,  466,  472 
Tatudhana,  389  ff,  418 
Yavanas,  139,  259  f,  423 
YavyavatI,  348 
Yaxartes,  318,  480  f. 
Yayati,  260,  422 
Yazata,  473 

Yima,  296,  331,  470,  473, 
476 


Zamzummim,  419 
Zaratushtra  or  Zoroaster, 

299,    315,   331  ff,   464, 

472  ff. 
Zend,    216,    218,   220  ff, 

226,  228  ff,  242,  258  f, 

266,  287  ff. 
Zendavesta,  216,  226, 258, 

455  f,  475 
Zeus,  279,  295 
Zoroastrians,  314. 


STEPHEN  AUSTIN  AND  SONS,  PRINTERS,  nivRTFORD. 


<4--^:r 


im 


-"f"^*!." 


