Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2011  with  funding  from 

University  of  Illinois  Urbana-Champaign 


http://www.archive.org/details/culturalheritageOOande 


AUGUSTANA  LIBRARY  PUBLICATIONS 

Number  27 
LUCIEN  WHITE,  General  Editor  / 


The 

CULTURAL  HERITAGE 

of  the 

SWEDISH  IMMIGRANT 

Selected  Rererences 


By 

O.  FRITIOF  ANDER 


ROCK  ISLAND,  ILLINOIS 

AUGUSTANA  COLLEGE  LIBRARY 

1956 


h 


AUGUSTANA  LIBRARY  PUBLICATIONS 

1.  The  Mechanical  Composition  of  Wind  Deposits.  By  Johan  August 
Udden    (1898)     $1.00 

2.  An  Old  Indian  Village.   By  Johan  August  Udden  (1900)    1.00 

3.  The  Idyl  in  German  Literature.   By  Gustav  Andreen   (1902)    1.00 

4.  On  the  Cyclonic  Distribution  of  Rainfall.    Bv  Johan  August  Udden 

(1905)    io: 

5.  Fossil  Mastodon  and  Mammoth  Remains  in  Illinois  and  Iowa.  By 
Netta  C.  Anderson.  Proboscidian  Fossi.s  of  the  Pleistocene  Depos- 
its in  Illinois  and  Iowa.    By  Johan  August  Udden   (1905)    1.00 

6.  Scandinavians  Who  Have  Contributed  to  the  Knowledge  of  the 
Flora  of  North  America.  By  Per  Axel  Rydberg.  A  Geological 
Survey  of  Lands  Belonging  to  the  New  York  and  Texas  Land 
Company,  Ltd.,  in   the   Upper  Rio  Grande  Embayment   in   Texas. 

By  John  August  Udden    (1907)    O.  P. 

7.  Genesis  and  Development  of  Sand  Formations  on  Marine  Coasts. 

By  Pehr  Olsson-Seffer.    The  Sand  Strand  Flora  of  Marine  Coasts 

By  Pehr  Olsson-Seffer    (1910)     IjOO 

8.  Alternative  Readings  in  the  Hebrew  of  the  Books  of  Samuel.  By 
Otto  H.  Bostrom   (1918)    11 

9.  On  the  Solution  of  the  Differential  Equations  of  Motion  of  a  Dou- 
ble Pendulum.    By  William  E.  Cederberg    (1923)    75 

10.  The  Danegeld  in  France.   By  Einar  Joranson   (1924)    1.25 

11.  Sedimentation  in  the  Mississijrpi  River  beUceen  Davenport.  Iowa, 
and  Cairo,  Illinois.    By  Arvid  L.  Lugn   (1927)    1.00 

12.  The  Development  of  Commerce  between  the  United  States  and 
Sweden,  1870-1925.    By  Frederick  Tillberg   (1S29)    1.25 

13.  Glacial  Features  of  Jackson  Hole,  Wyoming.    Bv  Fritiof  M.  Frvx- 

ell    (1930) 1.50 

14.  T.  N.  Hasselquist:  The  Career  and  Influence  of  a  Swedish-Ameri- 
can Clergyman,  Journalist,  and  Educator.  By  Oscar  Fritiof  Ander 
(1931)     125 

15.  The  Relation  of  the  Swedish- American  Newspaper  to  the  Assimi- 
lation of  Swedish  Immigrants.  By  Albert  Ferdinand  Schersten 
(1935)     1.00 

16.  The  Structural  Geology  and  Physiography  of  the  Teton  Pass  Area, 
Wyoming.    By   Leland   Horberg    (1938)     1.50 

17.  The  Mexican  Revolution  of  Ayutla,  1854-1855.  Bv  Richard  A. 
Johnson    (1939)     1.50 

18.  The  Structural  Geology  of  the  Cache  Creek  Area.  Gros  Ventre 
Mountains,  Wyoming.    By  Vincent  E.  Nelson   (1942)    1.00 

19.  The  Planting  of  tlie  Swedisli  Church  in  America:  Graduation  Dis- 
sertation of  Tobias  Eric  Biorck.  Translated  and  edited  by  Ira  Oli- 
ver Nothstein    (1943)    1 00 


Tlie 

CULTURAL  HERITAGE 

of  the 

SWEDISH  IMMIGRANT 


Selected  References 


By 

O.  FRITIOF  ANDER 


AUGUSTANA  LIBRARY  PUBLICATIONS 

Number  27 

Lucien  White,  General  Editor 


[PRINTED  1 
IN   US  A  J 


AUGUSTANA  BOOK  CONCERN 
Printers  and  Binders 
Rock  Island,  Illinois 


c 

c5x 


I 


DEDICATED 
TO 

D.  L.  ESTERDAHL 

A  BENEFACTOR  AND  FRIEND 

OF 

MANY  IMMIGRANTS 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 


PAGE 

Foreword   by   Conrad    Bergendoff vii 

Acknowledgments       ix 

Introduction      xi 

List  of  Abbreviations xv 

1.  Bibliography  of  bibliographies       1 

2.  Background  of  Swedish  emigration 10 

3.  America  books 24 

4.  Emigrant  Guide  books 36 

5.  Swedish  immigrants  in  American  life.   General  contributions     .  46 

6.  Church  and  education 75 

7.  Religious  and  secular  literature 113 

8.  Art,  Music,  and  the  Theater 133 

9.  Newspapers,  periodicals,  and  annuals.    Religious  and  secular    .  147 
10.    Archive  materials 188 


FOREWORD 

A  bewildering  array  of  material  greets  the  student  who  would  find  his 
way  in  the  history  of  Swedish  immigrants  in  America.  Where  does  the  story 
begin,  where  does  it  end?  Its  beginning  is  interwoven  with  the  fabric  of  an 
old  European  culture;  it  ends  in  the  manifold  patterns  of  an  emerging 
American  civilization.  One  can  pick  up  a  thread  here  or  there  and  follow 
it  back  to  its  origins  or  forwards  to  its  absorption  in  a  new  world.  No  one 
has  yet  separated  all  the  threads  or  even  attempted  to  assemble  all  the  ma- 
terials that  have  gone  into  this  variegated  texture  binding  Sweden  and 
America  together  over  the  course  of  a  century. 

Prof.  O.  Fritiof  Ander  has  been  asked  by  the  Swedish  Pioneer  Historical 
Society  to  attempt  a  bibliography  of  this  vast  material.  He  has  worked  in 
this  field  for  over  twenty  years,  both  in  Sweden  and  in  America.  The  result 
of  some  of  his  labors  is  gathered  up  in  this  bibliography  which  the  Society 
feels  will  be  of  inestimable  value  to  the  student  who  is  interested  in  tracing 
a  modern  folk  migration  from  old  worlds  to  new.  It  is  admitted  that  a  bib- 
liography of  this  kind  of  movement  can  never  be  exhaustive  and  its  con- 
tents never  neatly  formed  into  altogether  satisfactory  categories.  But  it  can 
be  an  invaluable  guide  to  anyone  seeking  to  discover  what  and  where  ma- 
terial exists  which  throws  light  on  particular  phases  of  this  baffling  cultural 
phenomenon  of  immigration. 

Conrad  Bergendoff 
Rock  Island,  HI. 
June,  1956 


vii 


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

The  work  on  this  bibliography  began  several  years  ago  as  a  project  spon- 
sored by  the  Swedish  Pioneer  Historical  Society.  In  the  earliest  stages  of 
the  work  suggestions  were  accepted  from  several  historians,  who  were  in- 
terested in  the  progress  made  on  the  bibliography.  Among  these  mention 
should  be  made  of  Theodore  C.  Blegen,  dean  of  the  Graduate  School,  Uni- 
versity of  Minnesota;  Merle  Curti,  professor  of  history,  University  of  Wis- 
consin; Paul  W.  Gates,  professor  of  history,  Cornell  University;  Oscar 
Handlin,  professor  of  history,  Harvard  University;  Carl  F.  Wittke,  dean  of 
the  Graduate  School,  Western  Reserve  University;  and  my  very  close  friend 
George  M  Stephenson,  professor  emeritus  of  history,  University  of  Minne- 
sota. Professor  E.  Gustav  Johnson  of  North  Park  College,  Professor  Adolf 
Olson  of  Bethel  College,  and  the  Rev.  Wesley  Westerberg  of  Naperville,  111., 
have  been  very  kind  in  providing  information  of  importance  on  materials  on 
the  Evangelical  Mission  Covenant  Church,  the  Baptist  General  Conference 
of  America  and  the  Swedish  Methodist  Church. 

Dr.  Robert  B.  Downs,  director  of  the  University  of  Illinois  Library  and 
Library  School,  and  a  past  president  of  the  American  Library  Association, 
together  with  two  members  of  his  staff,  namely  Professors  Rose  B.  Phelps 
and  Leslie  W.  Dunlap,  have  read  the  manuscript  and  their  suggestions  were 
appreciated. 

The  Board  of  Directors  of  Augustana  College  granted  a  semester's  leave 
of  absence  for  the  fall  of  1952  in  order  to  allow  time  for  the  completion  of 
the  work  at  the  Royal  Library,  Stockholm,  Sweden.  The  Social  Science  Re- 
search Council  and  the  American  Philosophical  Society  voted  grants-in-aid 
to  defray  some  of  the  expenses  associated  with  the  research.  A  word  of 
appreciation  is  also  due  the  Swedish-American  Line  which  through  the  kind 
office  of  Mr.  G.  Hilmer  Lundbeck  made  the  journey  to  and  from  Sweden 
a  most  pleasant  experience. 

Over  a  period  of  nearly  a  century  Augustana  College  has  acted  as  a  spe- 
cial agent  of  the  Royal  Library  in  collecting  materials  on  the  life  of  the 
Swedish  immigrants  in  America.  This  friendly  relationship  between  Augus- 
tana College  and  the  Royal  Library  was  first  fostered  by  T.  N.  Hasselquist 
and  the  head  librarian,  Harald  Wieselgren.  As  a  result  the  Royal  Library 
has  today  an  excellent  collection  of  Swedish- Americana.  I  wish  also  to  ex- 
press my  gratitude  to  all  the  members  of  the  staff  of  the  Royal  Library  of 
Stockholm,  who  made  the  work  on  this  bibliography  a  pleasant  experience. 

I  am  greatly  indebted  to  Carl  Sorling  of  Springfield,  111.,  and  D.  L.  Ester- 
dahl  of  Moline,  111.,  whose  financial  assistance  has  helped  to  make  publica- 
tion of  this  volume  possible.  They  have  long  been  interested  in  the  cul- 
ture of  the  Swedish  immigrant.  I  wish  also  to  acknowledge  my  indebtedness 
to  the  Augustana  Book  Concern  for  its  generous  aid,  financial  and  otherwise. 

A  word  of  thanks  is  due  to  the  staff  of  the  Denkmann  Memorial  Li- 
brary of  Augustana  College  for  assistance  and  co-operation,  especially  to 


Miss  Drusilla  Erickson,  periodicals  librarian,  for  verifying  many  periodica 
entries,  and  to  Dr.  Lucien  White,  head  librarian,  for  helpful  guidance  as  to 
bibliographical  style. 

Few  scholarly  tasks  are  more  demanding  and  exacting  than  a  biblio- 
graphical work.  Yet  it  seems  as  if  no  amount  of  precaution  and  effort  will 
insure  the  elimination  of  errors,  and  for  these  the  compiler  alone  is 
responsible. 

O.  Fritiof  Ander 
Augustana  College 
June,  1956 


INTRODUCTION 

Three  years  ago  the  Swedish  Pioneer  Historical  Society  requested  me  to 
prepare  a  biblography  on  Swedish  immigration  and  the  Swedish  immigrants 
in  America.  The  Historical  Society  did  not  define  the  meaning  of  the  word 
immigrant  nor  did  it  outline  even  briefly  the  scope  of  the  bibliography.  Un- 
doubtedly, the  society  was  chiefly  interested  in  an  immediate  ready  reference 
for  those  interested  in  doing  research  in  the  field  of  the  immigrant's  contri- 
butions to  American  history  as  well  as  in  a  usable  guide  for  those  whose  in- 
terests were  less  professional.  Such  a  bibliography  could  easily  have  been 
prepared  by  pooling  the  bibliographical  references  found  in  better  known 
works  on  the  Swedish  immigrants,  and  such  a  guide  might  well  have  served 
a  purpose.  Within  the  Historical  Society  there  were  voices  which  expressed 
a  wish  for  a  definitive  bibliography  on  the  Swedish  immigrants  in  America. 

It  is  very  doubtful  indeed  if  a  more  inclusive  bibliography  on  the  Swedish 
immigrants  in  America  will  ever  be  prepared,  yet  the  word  "definitive"  is 
too  strong  an  adjective  to  use  in  describing  this  guide.  It  has  its  very 
marked  limitations.  It  seeks  to  include  only  that  literature  which  deals  with 
the  immigrants  who  were  conscious  of  an  immigrant  status,  a  feeling  which 
gave  rise  to  a  desire  to  seek  the  company  of  other  immigrants  of  the  same 
national  stock  to  foster  and  perhaps  to  perpetuate  certain  ideals  and  institu- 
tions in  America.  Thus  references  to  such  persons  as  Greta  Garbo,  Ingrid 
Bergman,  Jenny  Lind,  and  Christina  Nilsson  in  America  are  not  included. 
Standard  guides  for  this  type  of  material  are  available.  Of  course,  such  a 
journal  as  the  American  Swedish  Monthly  places  a  great  deal  of  stress  upon 
the  contribution  of  these  and  other  artists  to  American  life.  To  put  it  more 
simply  this  is  a  bibliography  on  "Little  Sweden"  in  America,  and  as  such 
its  literature  depicts  the  reactions  of  the  Swede  to  the  American  scene. 

The  bibliography  does  not  concern  itself  with  the  individual  Swedish  im- 
migrant who  lost  his  identity.  In  fact  it  does  not  deal  with  the  accomplish- 
ment of  any  one  Swede  even  when  he  is  a  man  whose  contributions  to 
America  might  have  been  most  significant  in  a  given  field  of  endeavor. 

The  student  of  immigration  is  aware  of  the  strong  feeling  of  ethnocentrism 
found  in  any  national  group  within  America  and,  therefore,  he  makes  allow- 
ances for  the  most  extravagant  claims  of  the  group  in  its  efforts  to  inflate 
its  pride  and  feeling  of  distinctiveness.  Persons  will  be  claimed  to  be 
"Swedes"  without  a  drop  of  Swedish  blood  if  the  name  sounds  Swedish.  A 
great-great-great-grandfather  or  grandmother  of  Swedish  origin  of  an 
American  statesman  of  note  or  any  notable  person  is  a  matter  of  importance 
to  the  immigrant  group.  Persons  who  might  not  qualify  as  immigrants,  like 
Sweden's  greatest  singing  star  of  the  last  century,  are  claimed  as  they  meet 
the  demands  for  new  symbols  representing  the  dual  loyalties  of  immigrants 
where  the  old  symbols  of  the  monarch  and  the  church  no  longer  satisfied. 

The  guide  aims  to  focus  attention  upon  immigrant  sources  and  not  upon 
local,  state,  regional  or  national  sources.  These  immigrant  sources  are  too 
numerous  when  they  deal  specifically  with  the  institutions  founded  by  the 
immigrants  to  be  included  entirely.  The  archives  of  the  colleges  founded  by 


the  Swedes  in  America  contain  hundreds  of  leaflets,  flysheets,  programs, 
constitutions,  rules  of  order,  catalogues,  bulletins,  registers,  handbooks,  and 
jubilee  publications  of  local  churches,  clubs  and  societies  which  are  not 
properly  catalogued  and  this  form  of  literature  could  not  be  included.  The 
availability  of  the  material  and  the  nature  of  existing  bibliographical  refer- 
ences placed  very  definite  limitations  upon  the  scope  of  the  guide.  But  other 
factors  were  important.  The  bibliography  cannot  define  the  period  of  tran- 
sition during  which  the  immigrant  institutions  became  American.  It  would 
be  strange  to  refer  to  the  churches  founded  around  a  hundred  years  ago  as 
immigrant  churches.  This  is  also  true  of  the  colleges  and  schools  begun  by 
the  church.  It  is  hardly  possible  to  include  their  leaders  of  today,  a  genera- 
tion or  more  removed  from  Sweden,  as  immigrants. 

This  bibliography  offers  no  solution  to  the  difficult  problem  of  definition, 
but  its  limits  have  allowed  as  "immigrant  literature  and  sources"  those  which 
were  written  in  Swedish  and  a  literature  which  deals  directly  with  the  immi- 
grants as  such.  To  many  persons  it  might  seem  very  easy  to  define  "immi- 
grants," but  to  the  compiler  of  this  bibliography  it  has  been  a  major  problem, 
and  items  have  been  included  only  to  be  later  excluded  upon  a  redefinition 
of  the  term.  It  is  needless  to  say  that  no  satisfactory  solution  was  found,  and. 
therefore,  this  work  can  well  be  called  "selected  references."  Furthermore 
it  does  not  intend  to  be  in  any  way  definitive  on  the  causes  of  emigration 
from  Sweden.  The  background  of  emigration  and  the  Swedish  heritage  de- 
serves far  more  attention  of  serious  students  of  history  before  a  more  satis- 
factory bibliography  could  be  prepared.  Here  the  sources  are  almost  limit- 
less. The  curtain  has,  however,  been  drawn  upon  Swedish  immigration  to 
America,  and  the  sources  pertaining  to  the  immigrant  in  America  upon 
which  future  historians  must  base  their  account  will  not  become  much 
larger.  The  time  has  come  for  an  appraisal  of  the  contributions  of  the  immi- 
grant by  objective  historians  and  subjective  novelists  and  poets,  as  the  first 
turns  to  the  records  evaluated  by  the  yardstick  of  historical  criticism  while 
the  other  turns  to  the  legend  and  the  lore  evaluated  by  the  yardstick  of 
sentiment. 

A  few  instructions  in  the  use  of  the  bibliography  are  in  order.  Nearly  all 
entries  are  to  be  found  e  ther  in  the  Royal  Library  or  at  Augustana  Col- 
lege. Some  are  to  be  found  at  Bethel  College,  St.  Paul,  Minnesota;  North 
Park  College,  Chicago,  Illinois;  the  Swedish  Methodist  Historical  Library, 
Evanston,  111.;  Minnesota  State  Historical  Society,  St.  Paul,  and,  of  course, 
at  the  sister  colleges  of  Augustana;  namely,  Bethany,  Gustavus  Adolphus, 
and  Upsala.  A  small  number  of  Swedes  became  Mormons,  and  references  on 
these  have  been  included.  A  few  items  could  not  be  located.  Augustana 
College  Library  is  in  a  position  to  assist  in  locating  those  most  mentioned  in 
the  bibliography.  It  has  in  its  possession  the  original  manuscript  of  the  bib- 
liography which  contained  some  1,500  additional  entries,  translations  of 
bibles,  a  description  of  the  nature  of  pamphlets  and  information  of  various 
kinds,  including,  special  references  found  to  materials  in  the  Royal  Library. 
No  attempt  has  been  made  to  include  all  editions  of  a  book. 

The  historian  is  well  acquainted  with  the  general  bibliographical  and  bio- 
graphical tools,  and  these  have  not  been  included. 

References  are  made  to  the  Swan  and  Linder  collections  at  Augustana  Col- 
lege.   These   not   only   duplicate    considerable   material    on    the    Swedes   in 


America  that  is  found  in  the  college  library,  but  they  supplement  the  ma- 
terial. Both  G.  N.  Swan  and  O.  A.  Linder  were  interested  in  the  literary 
accomplishments  of  the  immigrants  as  well  as  in  the  general  contributions 
of  the  Swedes  to  American  life.  Linder  was  a  newspaper  man  and  he  clipped 
numerous  articles  and  notices  from  American  journals  about  Swedes  in 
America.  These  clippings  could  not  be  included,  but  they  are  very  accessi- 
ble as  a  part  of  the  Linder  collection,  which  is  a  library  of  Swedish- 
Americana.  The  Swan  Collection  is  less  specialized  and  contains  a  great 
deal  of  material  on  Swedish  history  and  literature  in  general. 

The  bibliography  is  divided  into  ten  subdivisions.  Few  items  are  easily 
classified.  The  user  must  therefore  refer  again  and  again  to  the  bibliography 
of  bibliographies  and  to  the  general  topic  on  distribution  of  the  immigrants. 
Many  America  books  are  of  a  general  nature.  A  serious  effort  has  been 
made  not  to  repeat  any  titles,  once  that  a  title  has  been  classified  and  placed 
under  one  of  the  ten  divisions. 


xm 


LIST  OF  ABBREVIATIONS 

AA  Americans  by  adoption,  by  Joseph  Husband.   Boston,  1920 

AB  Augustana  bulletin 

AD  Advance 

AH  Ahlen  and  Holm's  arsbok 

AHA  Annual  report  of  the  American  Historical  Association 

AHP  Augustana  Historical  Society  publication 

AHR  American  historical  review 

AI  Annals  of  Iowa 

AJ  Augustana  journal 

AJS  American  journal  of  sociology 

AL  Augustana  College  Library 

ALP  Augustana  Library  publication 

AM  Atlantic  monthly 

AME  American  mercury 

AMER  American  magazine 

AO  Augustana  observer 

AQ  Augustana  quarterly 

ARF  Arsbok  utgiven  av  Riksforeningen  for  svenskhetens  bevarande  i 

utlandet 

AS  Allsvensk  samling 

ASD  Americans  of  Swedish  descent,  by  Gosta  Nyblom.  Rock  Island,  1948 

ASH  American  Swedish  handbook 

ASHF  American  Swedish  Historical  Foundation.  Yearbook 

ASHM  American  Swedish  Historical  Museum.   Yearbook 

ASM  American  Swedish  monthly 

ASR  American  Scandinavian  review 

ATQ  Augustana  theological  quarterly 

AU  Augustana 

B  Baptist  General  Conference  of  America 

BAIS  Bulletin  of  the  American  Institute  of  Swedish  Arts,  Literature  and 

Science 

BASI  Bulletin  of  the  American  Swedish  Institute 

BF  Blackfisken 

BN  Bygd  och  natur 

BSA  Bibliographical  Society  of  America.   Papers 

C  Evangelical  Mission  Covenant  Church 

CE  Century 

CG  Common  ground 

CH  Church  history 

CHA  Chattaquaun 

CM  Covenant  memories;  golden  jubilee,  Swedish  Evangelical  Mission, 

1885-1935.    Chicago,  [1935] 

CO  Current  opinion 

CQ  Covenant  quarterly 

CSM  Christian  Science  monitor 

xv 


CT  Chicago  tribune 

EB  Ebenezer 

EG  Economic  geography 

EK  Epworth-klockan 

ER  Educational  review 

EVR  Evangelical  review 

F  Fortune 

FC  Evangelical  Free  Church  of  America 

FF  Frikyrkomotet  forhandlingar  och  foredrag 

FME  F6rgat-mig-ej 

FSA  F6rf:s  svensk-amerikanska  folket 

FV  Faculty  viewpoints 

GA  German  American  annals 

GGA  Geografiska  annaler 

GGR  Geographical  review 

GH  Goteborgs  handels-och  sjofartstidning 

GR  Germanic  review 

GT  Grade  teacher 

H  Hemat 

HA  Hallandsk  arsbok 

HCF  Hylten-Cavallius  Foreningens  arsbok 

HHC  History  of  Henry  County,  Illinois,  by  Henry  L.  Kiner.    Chicago, 

1910 

HS  Hem  i  Sverige 

HW  Harper's  weekly 

HY  Hygeia   (Stockholm) 

IJ  Iowa  journal  of  history  and  politics 

EL  Illinois  libraries 

IND  Independent 

IS  Iowa  studies  in  language  and  literature 

ISHS  Illinois  State  Historical  Society.    Transactions 

ISS  University  of  Illinois  studies  in  the  social  sciences 

JAH  Journal  of  agricultural  history 

JFA  Julhalsning  till  forsamlingen  i  arkestiftet 

JFV  Julhalsningar  till  forsamlingarna  i  Visby  stift 

JH  Julhelg 

JHU  Johns  Hopkins  University  studies 

JIHS  Journal  of  the  Illinois  State  Historical  Society 

JMH  Journal  of  modern  history 

KB  Korsbanaret 

KHA  Kyrkohistorisk  arskrift 

KK  Kurre-kalender 

KLA  Kalmar  Lans  arsbok  for  kulturhistoria  och  hembyg&skultur 

KMT  Kansas  music  teacher 

KN  Kalendern  Nornan 

KSHS  Collections  of  the  Kansas  State  Historical  Society 

L  Augustana  Evangelical  Lutheran  Church 

LC  Lutheran  companion 

LCR  Lutheran  church  review 

LQ  Lutheran  quarterly 


LSJ  Lund's  stifts  julbok 

M  Swedish  Methodist  Church 

MA  Moderna  amerikaner,  by  R.  G.:son  Berg.   Stockholm,  1925 

MAS  Musiktidning  for  Amerikas  svenskar 

MAW  Minnesota  alumni  weekly 

MC  My  church 

MD  Moline  daily  dispatch 

MFJ  Minnen  fran  jubelfesten.    Program,  predikninger  och  tal  vid  Au- 

gustana  Colleges  och  Augustana-synodens  femtio  ars-jubileum. 

Den  5-10  juni  1910.    Rock  Island,  1911 

MG  Morgonbris 

MH  Minnesota  history 

MHB  Minnesota  historical  bulletin 

MHC  Minnesota  historical  collections 

MHM  Michigan  history  magazine 

MLN  Modern  language  notes 

MM  Munsey's  magazine 

MS  Manuscript 

MSA  Middle  States  Association  of  History  and  Social  Science  Teachers. 

Proceedings 

MSM  Minneskrift  .  .  .  Sv.  Ev.  Missions  for  i  Am. 

MU  Musician 

MUD  Musical  digest 

MV  Midvinterboken 

MVHP  Mississippi  Valley  Historical  Association.   Proceedings 

MVHR  Mississippi  Valley  historical  review 

N  Nordstjernan 

NA  De  Nios  arsbok 

NAHS  Norwegian  American  historical  studies  and  records 

NAR  North  American  review 

NDHC  North  Dakota  Historical  Society  collections 

NDHQ  North  Dakota  historical  quarterly 

NEFH  National  ekonomiska  foreningen  for  handlingar 

NFM  Nordiska  familjeboks  manadskronika 

NHSP  Nebraska  Historical  Society  publications 

NM  Northland  magazine 

NN  A  nation  of  nations,  by  Louis  Adamic.    New  York  and  London, 

[1945] 

NOB  Namn  och  bygd;  tidskrift  for  nordisk  ortnamnisforskning 

NOST  Nordisk  statistisk  tidskrift 

NR  New  republic 

NS  Det  nya  sverige 

NST  Nya  svensk  tidskrift 

NT  Nordisk  tidskrift 

NU  Numismatist 

NWP  Nya  wecko-postens  kalender 

OB  Ord  och  bild 

OC  Our  covenant 

OEA  Onnestads  elevforbunds  arsbok 

OU  Outlook 


P  Palimpsest 

PB  Prarieblomman 

PMLA  Publications  of  the  Modern  Language  Association  of  America 

PNQ  Pacific  Northwestern  quarterly 

PS  Princeton  studies  in  American  civilization 

QSCP  Quarterly  of  the  Society  of  California  Pioneers 

RD  Reader's  digest 

RFA  Riksfbreningen  arsbok 

RR  Review  of  reviews 

SA  Svenska  amerikanaren 

SAF  Swedish  American  forum 

SAHB  Swedish  American  historical  bulletin 

SAM  Sartain's  magazine 

SASN  Society  for  the  Advancement  of  Scandinavian  Study.    Studies  and 

notes 

SASP  Society  for  the  Advancement  of  Scandinavian  Study.    Proceedings 

SAT  Samlaren  tidskrift 

SC  Scandinavia 

SCA  School  arts  magazine 

SCD  Sursum  corda 

SD  Social  demokraten 

SDA  Seventh  Day  Adventist  Church 

SDB  Svenska  dagbladet 

SDHC  South  Dakota  historical  collections 

SE  Science  and  education 

SEA  Swedish  element  in  America,  by  Erik  G.  Westman  and  E.  Gustav 

Johnson,  eds.    Chicago,  1931-1934.    4v. 

SEP  Saturday  evening  post 

SF  Svenska  folkrorelser 

SFV  Skrifter    utgifna     af    Svenska     sallskapet     "Svenska    folkskolans 

vanner" 

SGA  Svensk  geografiska  arsbok 

SGSA  Sydsvenska  geografiska  sallskapets  arsbok 

SHS  Swedish  Historical  Society  of  America.   Yearbook 

SHSB  Swedish  Historical  Society  of  America.   Bulletin 

SLA  Swedes  in  America,  by  Adolph  B.  Benson  and  Naboth  Hedin,  eds. 

New  Haven,  1938 

SJ  Sjomannen 

SK  Skogsblommor 

SKT  Svensk  kyrkotidning 

SLS  Svenska  litterara  sallskapet  de  nio.    Arsbok 

SM  Scribner's  magazine 

SMO  Scribner's  monthly 

SMS  Studier  i  modern  sprakvetenskap 

SNF  Skrifter  utgifna  of  Svenska  sallskapet  for  nykterhet  folkuppfostran 

SOS  Sprak  och  stil 

SP  Swedish  pioneer 

SPHQ  Swedish  pioneer  historical  quarterly 

SMS  Studier  i  modern  sprakvetenskap 

SR  School  review 

xviii 


SS  Senior  scholastic 

SSE  Arsbok  utgiven  av  s:  t  Erik  i  New  York 

SSN  Scandinavian  studies  and  notes 

SSQ  Southwestern  social  science  quarterly 

SSR  Sociology  and  social  research 

ST  Svensk  tidskrift 

STI  Sangartidningen 

STM  Svensk  tidskrift  for  musikforskning 

STP  Statsvetenskaplig  tidskrift  for  politik-statistik-ekonomi 

STV  Studentforeningen  Verdandis  smaskrifter 

SVIA  Svenskarna  i  Amerika,  by  Karl  E.  Hildebrand.    Stockholm,  1925- 

1926.   2v. 

SVR  Svenska  revyen 

SVS  Svenska  storman,  by  Harald  Johnsson.    Stockholm,  1936.    2v. 

TK  Teologisk  kvartalskrift 

TSK  Tidskrift  for  svensk  evangelisk-luthersk  kirkohistoria  i  N.  Amerika 

TT  Teologisk  tidskrift 

TW  This  week  magazine 

UMG  Ur  minnets  gommor.    MinneapoUs,  n.  d. 

XjMS  University  of  Minnesota  studies  in  the  social  sciences 

UPB  University  of  Pittsburgh  bulletin 

US  Utlandssvenskarna 

Tjv  Ungdomsvannen 

VK  Valkyrian 

VR  Vinterrosor 

VS  Vintersol 

VSH  Vaxjo  stifts  hembygdskalendar 

WD  Woman's  day 

WMH  Wisconsin  magazine  of  history 

WT  World  today 

ZSB  Zoological  Society  bulletin 


xix 


Chapter  One 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  OF  BIBLIOGRAPHIES 

The  bibliography  of  bibliographies  is  limited  to  references  pertaining  to 
the  causes  of  emigration  from  Sweden  and  the  life  of  the  Swedish  immi- 
grants in  America.  In  American  history  these  immigrants  constituted  one 
of  the  smaller  national  groups.  Their  impact  upon  American  life  was  sig- 
nificant but  only  in  a  relative  sense.  American  standard  bibliographical  aids 
reflect  this  relativeness,  and  their  references  to  the  role  of  the  Swedish  im- 
migrant are  few.  Nearly  all  of  these  guides  might  therefore  be  ignored  by 
the  student  of  Swedish  immigration. 

The  emigration  of  hundreds  of  thousands  of  people  from  Sweden  and  its 
small  population  from  1840-1914  were  the  result  of  great  and  difficult  re- 
adjustments in  Sweden  mirrored  in  almost  every  aspect  of  life.  The  history 
of  emigration  as  far  as  Sweden  is  concerned  is  essentially  the  history  of 
Sweden.  It  could,  therefore,  be  expected  that  the  more  significant  historical 
works  on  Sweden  since  1840  should  contain  both  material  and  bibliographi- 
cal references  useful  to  the  student  of  emigration.  To  list  these  works  would 
be  impossible  in  a  bibliography  with  a  limited  scope.  Furthermore,  the 
Swedish  historians  in  the  past  have  failed  to  recognize  the  significance 
of  emigration.  This  seems  more  strange  as  there  existed  a  definite  rela- 
tionship between  the  causes  of  emigration  and  the  religious,  social,  economic, 
and  political  conditions  as  they  reflected  themselves  in  political  legislation 
and  the  readjustments  toward  a  social  democracy  in  an  industrial  age.  Emi- 
gration caused  such  concern  in  Sweden  that  it  became  the  object  of  a  major 
investigation  by  the  government,  an  investigation  into  the  causes  of  emi- 
gration, which  is  more  exhaustive  than  any  similar  study.  Yet  very  few 
historical  works  on  the  19th  century  except  those  by  a  few  such  church  his- 
torians as  Ernst  Newman  and  Gunnar  Westin  are  of  direct  aid  in  the  study 
of  emigration.  This  could  in  part  be  explained  by  the  strong  Anglo- 
American  influences  upon  religious  conditions  in  Sweden. 

The  temperance  movement  should  also  be  mentioned  as  one  of  the  im- 
portant Anglo-American  influences.  The  bibliographical  aids  on  this  aspect 
of  emigration  and  immigration  are  most  disappointing.  Nils  Nordin's  bib- 
liography suggests  a  rich  literature.  The  Scandinavians  constituted  the 
major  strength  of  the  International  Order  of  Good  Templars  in  the  United 
States.  Yet  the  files  at  the  Royal  Library  and  Augustana  College  are  most 
unsatisfactory  when  it  comes  to  the  printed  sources  of  the  I.  O.  G.  T.  and 
the  role  of  the  Swedish  immigrant  in  the  American  temperance  movement. 

No  standard  Swedish  bibliographical  work  is  mentioned.  Actually  Sam- 
uel E.  Bring's  work  as  well  the  publications  of  the  Swedish  Historical  So- 
ciety have  a  very  limited  value  to  the  student  of  emigration.  Bring's  work 
is  annotated  and  suggestive  rather  than  detailed.  It  points  out  the  more  im- 
portant primary  sources  and  works  of  greater  importance.  The  annual  bib- 
liography of  the  Swedish  Historical  Society  edited  by  Percy  Elfstrand  is  a 


continuation  of  the  work  begun  by  Kristian  Setterwall,  and  it  corresponds 
essentially  to  Writings  in  American  History  published  by  the  American  His- 
torical Association. 

Among  the  most  accessible  and  best  known  book  catalogues  are  Svensk 
Bokkatalog,  Arskatalog  for  Svenska  Bokhandeln,  Bjorck  and  Borjesson's 
Americana,  and,  of  course,  Sveriges  Ofjentliga  Bibliotek  published  by  the 
Royal  Library,  as  well  as  Accessionskatalogen. 

The  search  for  primary  sources  necessitates  the  use  of  special  guides  such 
as  Hedvig  Lindestrom's  Register  till  Emigrations  Utredningen,  the  Arsbiblio- 
grafi  prepared  by  Riksdagsbiblioteket  and  those  compiled  by  E.  Thyselius, 
P.  M.  Hebbe,  L.  Tunberg  and  N.  Herlitz. 

It  has  already  been  stated  that  many  measures  were  taken  in  Sweden  to 
discourage  emigration.  A  growing  feeling  of  nationalism  placed  the  emi- 
grant in  an  unfavorable  light.  He  was  often  held  up  to  ridicule.  It  is  doubt- 
ful that  the  Swedish  historians  escaped  this  feeling  of  nationalism  which 
made  objectivity  difficult  in  dealing  with  emigration,  if  it  were  not  ignored. 
A  growing  interest  in  America  and  a  friendlier  attitude  toward  the  emi- 
grants have  reflected  themselves  in  a  number  of  special  guides  since  1925. 
This  is  seen  in  the  bibliographical  works  of  Nils  Afzelius  and  particularly  in 
Svensk  Liter aturhistorisk  Bibliograji,  which  he  ably  edited  for  many  years. 
Here  he  includes  the  literature  of  the  Swedish  immigrant  as  a  part  of  the 
literature  of  Sweden.  Bengt  Ahlen  and  his  associates  did  the  same  in  the 
preparation  of  their  biographical  dictionary  of  Swedish  authors. 

This  approach  became  popular  in  other  fields  outside  of  literature.  Ex- 
cellent bibliographical  aids  are  found  in  Svenskt  Biografiskt  Lexikon  edited 
by  Bertil  Boethius  and  Bengt  Hildebrand.  Ernst  Anderson's  work  is  an 
invaluable  guide  to  America  books  containing  impressions  of  Swedish  visi- 
tors to  America.  Ake  Davidsson's  volume  on  the  literature  of  music  contains 
many  references  pertaining  to  music  among  the  immigrants. 

The  interest  in  local  history  in  Sweden  is  comparatively  old  and  it  has 
resulted  in  the  organization  of  a  large  number  of  "hembygdsforeningar," 
which  might  be  compared  to  our  local  historical  societies.  These  provincial 
societies  are  responsible  for  a  rich  literature  with  a  local  color,  to  which 
several  guides  have  been  prepared.  Strangely  enough  this  literature  contains 
little  of  interest  to  the  student  of  emigration.  One  of  the  best  examples  of 
these  guides  is  Gosta  Ottervik's  Litteratur  om  Blekinge. 

The  most  convenient  of  the  ready  references  on  Swedish  immigration  are, 
of  course,  those  which  deal  directly  with  the  subject.  Of  these  the  works  by 
George  M.  Stephenson  are  by  far  the  most  significant  and  useful  as  biblio- 
graphical aids.  In  his  work  on  John  Lind  he  has  masterfully  used  American 
and  immigrant  sources  as  few  other  historical  craftsmen  are  able  to  do.  In 
a  study  of  the  causes  of  emigration  from  Sweden  attention  should  be  di- 
rected to  the  growing  number  of  doctoral  theses  written  in  Sweden  on  con- 
ditions in  that  country  during  the  19th  century.  Here  one  might  well  expect 
the  presentation  of  largely  unused  sources  or  the  reinterpretation  of  better 
known  ones. 

The  story  of  the  journey  has  remained  one  of  the  most  neglected  aspects 
of  emigration  from  Europe.  Yet  the  sources  on  the  journey  are  abundant 
and  include  among  others  "America  books"  and  "Guide  books"  to  which 
some  excellent  guides  have  been  prepared. 


Many  articles  are  counted  among  the  best  bibliographical  aids.  This  is 
especially  true  of  articles  dealing  with  immigrant  guides,  the  immigrant 
press  and  literature  of  both  a  secular  and  a  religious  nature.  The  latter 
were  often  written  by  people  intimately  associated  either  with  the  press  or 
the  church  of  the  Swedes  in  America.  All  of  these  testify  to  an  extensive 
literature  of  the  immigrant  and  significant  contributions  to  American  life 
of  one  of  the  smaller  immigrant  groups. 

Otto  Rob.  Landelius  and  Nils  William  Olsson  have  collected  a  great  deal 
of  biographical  material  on  Swedes  in  America.  Landelius  is  interested  in 
all  Swedes  living  outside  of  Sweden  while  Olsson  has  limited  the  scope  of 
his  interests  to  Swedish  immigrants  in  America  prior  to  1850.  Landelius 
and  Olsson  are  greatly  dependent  upon  such  literature  as  is  found  in  Sven 
Agren's  Svensk  Biograjisk  Uppslagslitteratur.  Here  are  listed  the  various 
"Herdaminnen"  of  Boras,  Gbteborg,  Harnbsand,  Ingermanland,  Kalmar 
and  other  dioceses  as  well  as  the  "matriklar"  (register  with  brief  biographi- 
cal notes)  of  schools,  regiments,  nations  (fraternities),  societies,  and  nu- 
merous genealogical  references,  all  materials  with  which  this  guide  does 
not  concern  itself. 


REFERENCES 

Afzelius,  Nils.   Books  in  English  on  Sweden.   A  bibliographical  list.  3d  rev. 

ed.  Stockholm,  1951. 
[Alberg,  Albert].    Catalogue  of  books,  dramas,  and  lectures  by  Albert  Al- 

berg.  London,  1888. 
Albrecht,  Esther  [Andreen].  Gustav  Andreen  and  the  growth  of  Augustana 

College  and  Theological  Seminary.    M.A.  thesis,  University  of  Illinois, 

1950. 
Alden,  H.  C.    The  Evangelical  Lutheran  Trinity  College  of  Round  Rock, 

Texas.   M.A.  thesis,  University  of  Texas,  1929. 
Alexis,   Joseph   Emanuel  Alexander.    La   litterature   suedoise   d'Amerique. 

Paris,  1930. 

Allwood,  Martin  S.    "One  hundred  years  of  Swedish  poetry  in  America." 

ASH,  3  (1948),  131-139. 
American  leader.   [Published  semi-monthly  in  New  York  from  1912  to  1918, 

as  the  official  organ  of  the  American  Association  of  Foreign  Language 

Newspapers.] 
Andeen,  Kenneth.    Trends  in  the  development  of  the   program  of  higher 

education  in  the  Augustana  Lutheran  Church.    Ph.D.  thesis,  Columbia 

University,  1952. 
Ander,  O.  Fritiof.    "Augustana  College  archives."    IL,  37   (June  1955),  168- 

175. 

A  bibliography  on  Swedish  history,   1809-1938.    A  manuscript  in 


the  Augustana  College  Library. 

"A  bibliography  on  Swedish  immigration  and  immigrant  contribu- 
tions." SPHQ,  3  (April  1952),  35-44. 

3 


A  guide  to  material  on  Swedish  history  in  me  Augustana  College 

Library.   Rock  Island,  1934. 

"Possibilities  of  historical  research  at  Augusiana  College."   FV,  pp. 


7-10. 

Swedish-American  political  newspapers.   A  guide  to  the  collections 

in  the  Royal  Library,  Stockholm,  and  the  Augustana  College  Library, 
Rock  Island.  Stockholm  and  Uppsala,  1936. 

T.  N.  Hasselquist.  The  career  and  influence  of  a  Swedish-American 


clergyman,  journalist,  and  educator.   Rock  Island,  1931.    (AHP,  v.  1). 

Anders,  John  Olson.  The  origin  and  history  of  Swedish  religious  organiza- 
tions in  Minnesota,  1853-1885.  Rock  Island,  1932. 

Anderson,  Lawrence  Albert.  The  Swedes  of  Lindsborg,  Kansas,  and  their 
cultural  institutions:  Bethany  College  and  the  Messiah  Chorus.  M.A. 
thesis,  University  of  Chicago,  1953. 

Anderson,  William  Arlo.  The  Scandinavian  immigrants  and  American  pub- 
lic affairs,  1840-1872.  Ph.D.  thesis,  Northwestern  University,  1942. 

Andersson,  Ernst.  Bok-katalog  omfattande  geografi  och  resor  (alia  lander 
utom  Sverige)  aren  1901-1928.  Stockholm,  1929. 

Andreen,  Gustaf.  "Den  nuvarande  svensk-amerikanska  pressen."  PB,  5 
(1905),  165-184. 

Angstrom,  Martha.  "Swedish  immigrant  guide  books  of  the  early  1880's." 
ASHF,  (1947),  22-48. 

Arden,  G.  Everett.  The  interrelationships  between  culture  and  theology  in 
the  Lutheran  Church  in  America.  Ph.D.  thesis,  University  of  Chicago, 
1945. 

Arestad,  S.  "Bibliography  on  the  Scandinavians  of  the  Pacific  Coast."  PNQ, 
36  (July  1945),  269-276. 

"Scandinavian-language  newspapers  on  the  Pacific  Coast."    PNQ, 

34  (July  1943),  305-308;  36  (July  1945),  276-278. 

Babcock,  Kendric  C.  The  Scandinavian  element  in  the  United  States.  Ur- 
bana,  1914.    (ISS,  no.  3). 

Backlund,  J.  Oscar.  A  century  of  the  Swedish  American  press.  Chicago, 
1952. 

Backlund,  Oscar  Theodore.  Survival  factors  of  Mission  Covenant  churches 
in  Chicago.   M.A.  thesis,  University  of  Chicago,  1935. 

Bengston,  C.  J.  "Tidningspressen  inom  Augustana  synoden."  In:  Minne- 
skrift  med  anledning  af  Augustana  synodens  femtioariga  tillvaro.  Rock 
Island,  1910. 

Benson,  Adolph  Burnett.  American  Scandinavian  studies.  Selected  and 
edited  with  a  bibliography  by  Marshall  W.  S.  Swan.   New  York,  1952. 

Benson,  Adolph  and  Hedin,  Naboth.  Swedes  in  America,  1638-1938.  New 
Haven,  1938. 

Benson,  Oscar  A.  Problems  in  the  accommodations  of  the  Swede  to  Ameri- 
can culture.    Ph.D.  thesis.  University  of  Pittsburgh,  1933. 


Berg,  Carl  G.  The  Swedish  settlement  in  northeastern  Connecticut.  A  study 
of  ethnic  and  cultural  adjustment  of  a  European  folk  to  a  modern  Ameri- 
can environment.   M.A.  thesis,  Clark  University,  1942. 

Berg,  R.  G:son.  "Nordamerikansk  litteratur  i  Sverige."  MA,  pp.  149-186. 

Berger,  V.  Svenska  tidningar  i  New  York,  N.  Y.  Brooklyn,  1929. 

Blackfisken.    Arsbok.    Chicago,  1920-1921. 

Bonggren,  Jakob.  "Huru  svensk-amerikansk  litteratur  grundades."  VS, 
(1904),  113-125. 

"Svensk-amerikansk  litteratur."   PB,  2  (1902) ,  67-76. 

"Svenska  litterara  stromningar  under  de  senaste  tva  decennierna 

samt  spar  af  dessa  i  var  svensk-amerikanska  litteratur."   VK,  2  (1898) , 
534-538,  587-597. 

"Swedish-American  literature."  SEA,  v.  2. 


Carlson,  C.  Emanuel.  The  adjustment  of  the  Swedish  immigrants  to  the 
American  public  school  system  in  the  Northwest.  Ph.D.  thesis,  Uni- 
versity of  Minnesota,  1949. 

Carlson,  Leland  H.  A  history  of  North  Park  College.  Commemorating  the 
fiftieth  anniversary  1821-1941.    Chicago,  1941. 

Carlson,  William  H.  "Scandinavian  collections  in  the  libraries  of  the  United 
States."  SASN,  15  (1939),  217-238. 

"Swedish  library  collections  in  the  United  States."  ASH,  [1]  (1943), 

64-79. 

Enander,  J.  A.  "Den  svensk-amerikanska  tidningspressen  jamte  korta  no- 
tiser  om  tidningar  pa  norskt-danskt  sprak  i  Amerika."  Norden,  (1902), 
256-263. 

Flom,  George  T.  "Bibliography.  American  publications  on  the  languages 
and  literatures  of  the  Scandinavian  countries."   IS,  12  (May  1907),  3-66. 

History   of   Scandinavian   studies   in   American    universities,    with 

bibliography.    Iowa  City,  1907. 

Gates,  Paul  Wallace.  The  Illinois  Central  Railroad  and  its  colonization  work. 
Cambridge,  Mass.,  1934. 

Gustafson,  W.  W.  The  Swedish  language  in  the  United  States.   Ph.D.  thesis, 

University  of  the  City  of  New  York,  1929. 
Helmes,  G.  Winifred.    The  people's  governor,  John  A.  Johnson:    a  political 

biography.   Ph.D.  thesis,  University  of  Minnesota,  1947. 

Hemdahl,  Reuel  Gustav.  The  Swedes  in  Illinois  politics.  Ph.D.  thesis, 
Northwestern  University,  1934. 

Hokanson,  Nels.  Swedish  immigrants  in  Lincoln's  time.  New  York  and 
London,  1942. 

Janson,  Florence  Edith.  The  background  of  Swedish  immigration  1340- 
1930.   Ph.D.  thesis,  University  of  Chicago,  1931. 

Johnson,  Amandus.  "Scandinavian-American  literature."  GA,  n.  s.  4  (Aug. 
1906),  235-251. 

Johnson,  E.  Gustav.  A.  L.  Skoog,  Covenant  hymnwriter  and  composer. 
Chicago,  1937. 

5 


Bibliography  of  the  published  works  of  Professor  David  Nyvall. 

Chicago,  1937. 

"Periodicals   published    among    the    Mission    Covenant    people    in 


America."    CM,  pp.  209-231. 

Johnson,  Gustav  Elwood.  The  Swedes  of  Chicago.  Ph.D.  thesis,  University 
of  Chicago,  1940. 

Larson,  Ernest  S.  The  Evangelical  Mission  Covenant  of  America  beginnings. 
Ph.D.  thesis,  University  of  Chicago,  1945. 

Lee,  Charles  and  Julia.  Katalog  over  C.  och  J.  Lee  utgivna  skrifter.  Stock- 
holm, 1930. 

Lieholm,  Edwin  T.  The  Lutheran  chorale  as  a  congregational  hymn.  Ph.D. 
thesis,  Union  Theological  Seminary,  1945. 

Lindberg,  Anna.  Swedish  immigration  with  special  reference  to  California. 
M.A.  thesis,  University  of  California,  1938. 

Lindberg,  John  S.  The  background  of  Swedish  emigration  to  the  United 
States.  An  economic  and  sociological  study  in  the  dynamics  of  migra- 
tion.  Minneapolis,  1930. 

Lindberg,  Paul  M.  The  academies  and  colleges  of  the  Augustana  Synod 
in  Minnesota.   Ph.D.  thesis,  University  of  Nebraska,  1946. 

Lindahl,  Mac.  "American  plays  in  the  Swedish  theater."  ASM,  39  (Dec. 
1945),  12-14. 

Linder,  Oliver  A.    "Newspapers."    SIA,  pp.  181-190. 

"Svensk-amerikanska  litteraturen."     SVIA,  v.  2,  pp.  199-312. 

"Writers  of  Swedish  life  in  America."   ASR,  6  (1918),  154-158. 

Svensk-amerikanska  pseudonymer:  nagra  anteckningar.  n.  p.,  1899. 

"Writers  of  Swedish  life  in  America."    ASR,  6   (May- June  1918), 

154-158. 

Lindestrom,    Hedvig.     Register   till    emigrationsutredningens   publikationer. 

Stockholm,  1914. 
Lindquist,  Emory  K.  Smoky  Valley  people.   A  history  of  Lindsborg,  Kansas. 

Lindsborg,  1953.    (AHP,  v.  13.) 
Lundbergh,  Holger.    "New  Swedish  note   in  American  fiction."    ASM,   38 

(Nov.  1944),  12-13. 
Lundstrom,  Vilhelm.   "Ett  arbete  om  den  svenska  pressen  i  Amerika."  RFA, 

(1911). 

"Den  svenska  pressen  utanfor  Sverige."    Tidningen  Upsala,   (Aug. 

7,  9,  12,  1912). 

Meixner,  Esther  Chilstrom.  The  teaching  of  the  Scandinavian  languages  and 
literatures  in  the  United  States.  Ph.D.  thesis,  University  of  Pennsylva- 
nia, 1941. 

Mikkelsen,  Michael  A.  The  Bishop  Hill  colony.  A  communistic  settlement 
in  Henry  County,  Illinois.   Baltimore,  1892.    ( JHU,  v.  10) . 

Moberg,  Wensel  W.  Swedish  elements  in  the  land  utilization  of  northeastern 
Connecticut.    M.A.  thesis,  Clark  University,  1942. 

Mortimer,  Hazel.  "The  Swedish  chapter  in  the  history  of  Rockford,  Illinois." 
M.A.  thesis.  Northwestern  University,  1946. 

6 


Naeseth,  Henriette  C.  K.  The  Swedish  theater  in  Chicago  1868-1950.  Rock 
Island,  1951.    (ALP,  no.  22.) 

Nelson,  Carl  Leonard.  The  sacred  and  the  secular  music  of  the  Swedish 
settlers  of  the  Midwest  1841-1917.  Ph.D.  thesis,  New  York  University, 
1950. 

Nelson,  Helge.  Nordamerika.  Natur  och  bygd  och  svenskbygd.  Stockholm, 
1926.   2v. 

"Nagra  svenskbygder  i  Nordamerika."    SGA,  (1927),  13-48. 

The  Swedes  and  the  Swedish  settlements  in  North  America.   Lund, 

New  York,  Leipzig,  London,  Oxford,  1943.   2v. 

Newman,  Ernst.  Evangeliska  alliansen.  En  studie  i  protestantisk  enhets- 
och  frihetsstravan.   Lund,  1937. 

Nordskanska  vackelserorelsen  under  1800-talet.    Stockholm,  1925. 

"Notes  and  comments."  SAHB,  3  (Sept.  1930),  54-69;  3  (Dec.  1930),  13-18; 
4  (Sept.  1931),  31-37. 

Nothstein,  Ira  O.  "The  Augustana  Synod:  its  history,  doctrines  and  activi- 
ties." ATQ,  (July  1943 -Jan.  1945). 

"The  Swedish -American  newspaper  collection  at  Augustana  College, 

Rock  Island,  Illinois."   SPHQ,  3  (April  1952),  45-55. 

Nylin,  Henry  George.  The  history  of  the  Swedish  Methodism.  M.A.  thesis, 
Northwestern  University,  1925. 

Olson,  Adolf.  A  centenary  history  as  related  to  the  Baptist  General  Con- 
ference of  America.  "A  century  of  God's  grace"  1852-1952.  Chicago,  1952. 

Manuscript  of  materials  found  at  Bethel  College  in  St.  Paul. 

Olson,  Lee  O.  G.  History  of  Swedish  church  music.  Ph.D.  thesis,  Union 
Theological  Seminary,  1946. 

Olson,  Oscar  Emanuel.  A.  L.  Skoog:  pioneer  musician  of  the  Evangelic  Mis- 
sion Covenant  Church  of  America.  M.S.  thesis,  Northwestern  Univer- 
sity, 1941. 

Olsson,  Nils  William.  "Midwestern  discoveries  in  Swedish  archives."  BASI, 
4  (Dec.  1949),  8-11. 

"New  aids  to  genealogical  studies."  BASI,  5  (March  1950),  19-21. 

Oppedale,  H.  O.  Thomas  Brown's  Scandinavian  newspaper  directory.  Chi- 
cago, 1894. 

Oppegard,  Roy  W.    Governor  John  Albert  Johnson  and  the  reform  area  in 

Minnesota  state  government.   M.A.  thesis,  University  of  Minnesota,  1937. 
Ottey,  Abram  C.  F.   The  Swedish  race  in  America.   Philadelphia,  1940. 
Park,  Robert  Ezra.  The  immigrant  press.   New  York,  1922. 
Person,  Peter  P.   A  history  of  higher  education  among  Swedish  immigrants 

in  America.   Ph.D.  thesis,  Harvard  University,  1941. 
Peterson,  Harold  E.    Railroads  and  the  settlement  of  Minnesota,  1862-1882. 

M.A.  thesis,  University  of  Minnesota,  1927. 
Princell,  Josephine.    "Den  svenska  kristna  tidningspressen  i  Amerika."    SK, 

(1913),  105-119. 


Rehnstrom,  August  E.  A.  An  interpretation  of  the  history  of  religious 
education  in  Sweden.    Ph.D.  thesis,  Boston  University,  1945. 

Robinson,  E.  Van  Dyke.  "Early  economical  conditions  and  the  development 
of  agriculture  in  Minnesota."   Minneapolis,  1915.    (UMS,  no.  3.) 

Rosenquist,  Carl  M.  The  Swedes  of  Texas.  Ph.D.  thesis,  University  of  Texas, 
1930. 

Skarstedt,  Ernst.  "Den  svensk-amerikanska  pressen,  litteraturen  och 
konsten."   FSA,  pp.  148-218. 

Pennfaktare.     Svensk-amerikanska    forfattare     och     tidningsman. 

Stockholm,  1930. 

Vara  pennfaktare.  Lefnads  och  karaktarsteckningar  ofver  svensk- 
amerikanska  tidningsman,  skalder  och  forfattare,  med  portratter  samt 
talrika  utdrag  ur  den  poetiska  och  humoristiska  litteraturen.  San  Fran- 
cisco. 1897.  (Revised  by  Publicistklubben  and  published  in  Vagabond 
och  redaktor.    Lefnadsoden  och  tidsbilder.    Seattle,  1914.) 

"Svensk-amerikanska    forfattare."     UV,   9    (Nov.    1904)  -14    (July 


(1909). 

Svensk-amerikanska  poeter  i  ord  och  bild.   Minneapolis,  1890. 


Soderstrom,  Alfred.   Blixtar  pa  tidnings-horisonten,  samlade  och  magasine- 

rade.    Warroad,  Minn.,  1910. 
Stephenson,  George  M.   A  history  of  American  immigration  1820-1924.   Bos- 
ton, 1926. 

John  Lind  of  Minnesota.   Minneapolis,  1935. 

The  religious  aspects  of  Swedish  immigration.    A  study  of  immi- 
grant churches.   Minneapolis,  1932. 

"Swedish  immigration  material."  MH,  18  (1937) ,  69-75. 


Sundkler,  Bengt.   Svenska  Missionssallskapet  1835-1876.   Uppsala,  1937. 
Sundstrom,  E.  "Bidrag  till  en  Jenny  Lind  bibliografi."    STM,  2  (1920),  273- 

283. 
Svensk-amerikanska  pressen  och  svenska   journalistforbundet   i   Amerika. 

Rock  Island,  1923. 
Swan,  G.  N.   "Svensk-amerikansk  historia.   Nagra  ord  om  kallskrifter."  UV. 

(Nov.  1915). 
Swedish-American  literary  periodicals.    Rock  Island,  1936.    (AHP, 

v.  6.) 
Swanson,  Roy  W.   "Some  Swedish  emigrant  guide  books  of  the  second  half 

of  the  nineteenth  century."    SHS,  11  (1926),  103-124. 
"Swedish-American    press."     ASH,    [1]    (1943),    82-85;    2    (1945),    105-109; 

3  (1948),  126-130. 
Sweedlund,  Verne  S.   A  history  of  agriculture  in  Nebraska,  1870-1930.   Ph.D. 

thesis,  University  of  Nebraska,  1940. 
Swenson,  Edgar.    "The  Swedish-American  press  nears   its  century  mark." 

ASM,  42  (Aug.  1948),  6-7,  28-29. 
Tillberg,  Frederick.    The   development   of   commerce   between   the   United 

States  and  Sweden  1870-1925.    Ph.D.  thesis,   State  University   of  Iowa, 

1928.    (ALP,  no.  12.) 

8 


WaUenius,  C.  G.   "Svensk-amerikanarnes  litteratur."    SHS,  2  (1908),  5-12. 
Westin,  Gunnar.   George  Scott  och  hans  verksamhet  i  Sverige.    Stockholm, 

1929.   2v. 
White,  George  LeRoy,  Jr.   Scandinavian  themes  in  American  fiction.    Ph.D. 

thesis,  University  of  Pennsylvania,  1935. 
Widen,  Albin.   "Scandinavian  folklore  and  immigrant  ballads."   BASI,  n.  s.  2 

(March  1947),  2-44. 

Wold,  Olga  M.  W.    The  history  of  the  Augustana  Synod,  1860-1870.    M.  A. 

thesis,  University  of  Minnesota,  1927. 
Zweibergk,   Brita   von.    "Emigrationslitteratur    i   Kalmar    centralbibliotek." 

KLA,  (1951),  41-50. 


Chapter  Two 


THE  BACKGROUND  OF  SWEDISH  EMIGRATION 

A  study  of  the  causes  of  emigration  from  Sweden  after  1840  becomes  es- 
sentially a  study  of  the  history  of  Sweden  during  the  19th  century.  But  it 
is  also  a  study  of  those  conditions  in  the  United  States  which  attracted  so 
many  immigrants.  Emigration  and  immigration  cannot  be  separated.  It  is 
impossible  to  focus  attention  upon  the  social,  economic,  political,  and  re- 
ligious ills  of  Sweden  and  the  problems  faced  as  an  old  social  order  gave 
room  for  democracy  and  equalitarianism  without  simultaneously  pointing  to 
the  existence  of  a  democracy  on  the  other  side  of  the  Atlantic.  The  birth  of 
a  social  democracy  in  Sweden  was  slow  and  very  painful.  It  is  to  be  identi- 
fied with  the  great  folk-movements  of  liberalism,  temperance,  and  religious 
awakening  which  promised  much  for  the  future.  But  these  movements 
seem  almost  to  lose  themselves  in  great  economic  readjustments  associated 
with  the  commercial,  agricultural,  and  industrial  revolutions  and  the  rise 
of  organized  labor.  During  the  period  of  adjustment  there  was  a  spirit  of 
restlessness  and  impatience  though  change  gradually  held  out  more  promise 
and  hope  for  the  future.  America  fever  threatened  to  almost  depopulate 
Sweden  during  the  1880's  when  emigration  reached  a  new  high,  and  this 
fear  may  well  have  provided  an  impetus  in  Sweden  for  more  rapid  changes 
in  the  direction  of  social  justice.  But  before  any  measurable  results  had 
been  achieved  hundreds  of  thousands  of  Swedes  had  found  their  way  to 
America,  until  nearly  two-sevenths  of  all  Swedes  are  to  be  found  in  Amer- 
ica, if  descendants  of  Swedish  immigrants  are  included. 

They  came  to  America  to  escape  the  difficult  conditions  in  Sweden  and 
to  share  in  benefits  of  a  social  order  established  upon  democratic  faiths. 
They  came  in  search  for  opportunity,  and  to  them  America  had  become 
synonymous  with  progress,  change,  hope,  and  above  all  a  new  home.  In  a 
study  of  Swedish  emigration  the  magnetic  power  of  America  cannot  be  ig- 
nored. America  letters  and  other  accounts  of  immigrants  were  filled  with 
enthusiasm  for  America,  and  the  guide  books  hardly  ever  failed  to  paint 
America  as  the  land  of  promise.  The  study  of  the  causes  of  emigration  is 
an  extremely  complex  one,  and  the  historian  must  always  be  ready  to  search 
for  new  materials  and  sources  which  might  be  useful  to  him. 

This  search  might  well  begin  with  the  sources  listed  below  under  books, 
pamphlets,  and  articles,  which  soon  will  provide  new  leads.  Many  excellent 
references,  undoubtedly  the  best,  are  to  be  found  listed  in  the  "Bibliography 
of  Bibliographies"  and  many  general  works  on  the  Swedes  in  America  con- 
tain material  of  value.  The  Swedish-American  newspapers,  periodicals,  and 
annuals  contain  references  that  cannot  be  ignored,  and  from  1840  to  the 
present  time  the  Swedish  press  contains  invaluable  information  on  the 
causes  of  Swedish  emigration.  America  books,  America  letters  found  in 
many  archives  on  both  sides  of  the  Atlantic,  guide  books,  and,  of  course, 

10 


official  government  publications  are  rich  in  materials  deserving  the  his- 
torian's search. 

Sweden  is  most  fortunate  in  having  a  very  rich  literature  of  official  pub- 
lications. The  possible  consequences  of  mass  emigration  upon  the  national 
economy  of  the  country  led  to  the  most  exhaustive  study  made  by  any 
country  of  the  causes  of  emigration.  This  study  is  called  Emigrations  Ut- 
redningen,  which  constitutes  a  major  source  on  the  history  of  emigration 
from  Sweden.  A  growing  feeling  of  nationalism  expressed  itself  in  many 
ways  and  did  not  fail  to  influence  the  nature  of  official  reports  and  studies, 
but  this  in  no  way  undermines  their  significance  to  the  student  of  immigra- 
tion to  America.  Sweden  has  reason  to  be  proud  of  its  official  statistics  and 
the  reports  of  its  provincial  governors,  departments  or  bureaus  of  commerce, 
mining,  manufacture,  agriculture,  fishing,  and  health.  These  are  not  merely 
dry  statistics.  They  provide  the  background  for  a  significant  social  inter- 
pretation of  Sweden's  great  folk  movements,  including  emigration. 

The  Church  of  Sweden  is  an  agency  of  the  state,  and  the  official  records 
of  the  church  are  numerous  and  of  considerable  importance  in  understand- 
ing the  nature  of  the  religious  awakening  of  the  last  century.  Many  refer- 
ences can  easily  be  secured  by  consulting  the  works  of  Sweden's  eminent 
church  historians. 

Sweden  has  a  large  press  and  a  press  which  has  played  a  significant  role 
in  forming  public  opinion  since  1830.  This  press  consisting  of  dailies,  week- 
lies, monthlies,  quarterlies,  and  annuals  abounds  in  references  to  America, 
the  causes  of  emigration,  the  Swedish  immigrant  in  America,  the  impact  of 
emigration  upon  life  in  Sweden,  the  Americanization  of  Sweden,  and  other 
topics  which  have  kept  America  in  the  public  mind  in  Sweden.  Excellent 
and  adequate  guides  are  available  to  the  press,  and  the  inclusion  of  the 
Swedish  press  in  this  bibliography  seemed  therefore  unnecessary.  Some 
oddities  have  been  selected,  however.  These  represent  publications  of  pe- 
riodicals or  flysheets  which  aimed  to  call  special  attention  to  America.  Of 
course,  America  letters  found  their  way  into  the  secular  press  and  both 
George  M.  Stephenson  and  the  compiler  of  this  bibliography  have  had 
photostats  made  of  many  of  these  letters  which  have  been  presented  to  the 
Augustana  College  Library.  Gunnar  Westin  has  published  a  large  number 
of  America  letters  secured  from  the  Augustana  College  Library  files  and 
from  Bethel  Seminary  of  Stockholm. 


REFERENCES 
BOOKS  AND  PAMPHLETS 

Agardh,  Carl  Adolf,  and  Carl  Edvard  Ljungberg.  Forsok  till  en  statsekono- 
misk  statistik  ofver  Sverige.    Carlstad,  1857;  Stockholm,  1857-1863. 

Almkvist,  N.  J.  F.  Emigrations -utredningen  och  folkskolan.  Ar  professor 
Gustav  Sundbargs  kritik  berattigad?    Harnosand,  1914. 

Almquist,  C.  J.  L.  Svenska  fattigdomens  betydelse.  Valda  skrifter,  v.  5. 
R.  G.  Berg,  ed. 

Amark,  Karl.  Utvandring  och  naringslif  i  Norrland.  Stockholm,  1912. 

Anderson,  M[arna]  F.   The  Baptists  in  Sweden.   Philadelphia,  [I860]. 

11 


Anderson,  Theodor,  and  Axel  Andersson.  Svenska  missionsfbrbundet.  Dess 
uppkomst  och  femtioariga  verksamhet:  Yttre  missionen.  Stockholm, 
1928;  Inre  missionen.    Stockholm,  1928-1929.    3 v. 

Andersson,  Gunnar.   Emigrationsprcblemet.   Stockholm,  1924. 

Andersson,  Johan.  Amerika  eller  Sverige?  Nagra  ord  om  emigrationen,  dess 
orsaker  och  verkningar.   Kalmar,  1870. 

Frihet  eller  slaferi?    Nagra  antydningar   om   de  faror,  som   hota 

folkens  och  frihetens  sak.   Kalmar,  1868. 

Andree,  A.  Foredrag  om  de  daliga  tiderna  och  deras  orsaker.  Stockholm, 
1880. 

Baird,  Robert.  A  visit  to  Northern  Europe:  or  sketches  descriptive,  histori- 
cal, political  and  moral  of  Denmark,  Norway,  Sweden,  and  Finland. 
New  York,  1841.   2v. 

Berg,  Gustaf.  National  foreningen  mot  emigrationen  1907-1912.  Stockholm, 
1912. 

Bergholm,  Paul.  National  foreningen  mot  emigrationen  1907-1917.  Stock- 
holm, 1917. 

Bergman,  C.  W.   Den  religiosa  fragan.    Jonkoping,  1848. 

Den  sociala  fragan  af  forfattaren  till  "den  religiosa  fragan."  Stock- 
holm, 1848. 

Bergman,    Johan.     Den    svenska    nykterhetsrbrelsens    historia.     Ostersund. 

1893.  Rev.  ed.  1913. 
Borgstrom,  J.  A.   Hafva  vi  religionsfrihet  i  Sverige?    Stockholm,  1888. 
Brace,  Charles  L.    The  Norse-folk;  or  a  visit  to  the  homes  of  Norway  and 

Sweden.   London,  1857. 

Brandt,  Gustaf.  C.  O.  Rosenii  fbrkunnelse.  En  studie  i  svensk  lekmanna- 
predikan.   Ph.D.  thesis,  Stockholm,  1918. 

Bremner,  Robert.  Excursions  in  Denmark,  Norway  and  Sweden;  including 
notices  of  the  state  of  public  opinion  in  those  countries  and  anecdotes 
of  their  courts.   London,  1840.  2v. 

Bruhn,  Carl.  Stanna  hemma!  Amerikanska  penndrag  tillagnade  den  svenska 
landstormen.   Stockholm,  1916. 

Bunbury,  Selina.  Life  in  Sweden;  with  excursions  in  Norway  and  Den- 
mark. London,  1853.  2v. 

Bystrom,  Jakob.  En  frikyrklig  banbrytare  eller  O.  F.  Nilssons  lif  och  verk- 
samhet. Stockholm,  1911. 

Calvert,  James  G.   Emigration  och  jernvagspolitik.    Gbteborg,  1906. 

Cleri  comitialis  circular  till  samtlige  herrar  biskopar  och  consistorieme  i 
riket.  Stockholm,  1841. 

Conricus,  Richard.  Hem  och  hard.  Studier  i  egna-hemsfragan.  Gbteborg, 
1903. 

Cooper,  Sidney  W.  Rambles  in  Sweden.  A  series  of  letters  from  Sweden  to 
a  newspaper  in  America.    Gothenburg,  1884. 

Drake,  A.  M.  Uppkomsten  af  baptistfbreningar  i  Stockholms  distriktsfbre- 
ning.  Arsafhandling,  upplast  i  Betelkapellet  i  Stockholm  vid  Stock- 
holms  distriktsfbrenings  12:e  arsmbte  d.  4  juni  1874.    Stockholm,  1874. 

12 


Drake,  A.  M.,  and  J.  A.  Borgstrom.   De  svenska  baptisternas  historia  under 

de  forsta  50  aren  1848-1898.   Stockholm,  1898. 
Edquist,  Carl.  Laseriet  i  Skelleftebygden  under  1800-talet.   Stockholm,  1917. 

Det  stora   nodaret.    Kulturhistorisk   berattelse   fran   Vasterbotten 

och  Lappmarken.   Stockholm,  1925. 

Ekman,  E.  J.  Den  inre  missionens  historia.   Jonkoping,  1921-1922. 

Erik-Jansonismen  i  Helsingland.  Historisk  och  dogmatisk  framstallning 
jemte  wederlaggning  af  laran.    Gefle,  1845. 

Erik-Jansonisternas  historia.  n.  p.,  n.  d.  [Galva,  111.?] 

Erikson,  J.  M.  Methodismen  i  Sverige.  En  historisk-biografisk  framstall- 
ning af  methodistkyrkans  verksamhet  i  vart  land.  Med  portratt  af  samt- 
lige  predikanter  och  vyer  af  de  fiesta  kyrkor.   Stockholm,  1895. 

Evangeliska  fosterlandsstiftelsens  50-ariga  verksamhet  1856-1906.  Stock- 
holm, 1906. 

Geijer,  Erik  Gustaf.  The  poor  laws  and  their  bearing  on  society.  Stockholm, 
1840. 

Heidenstam,  O.  G.  von.   Swedish  life  in  town  and  country.   New  York,  1904. 

Herlenius,  Emil.  Erik-Jansismen  i  Sverige.  Bidrag  till  svenska  sektvasen- 
dets  historia.  Uppsala,  1897. 

Erik-Jansismens  historia.    [Ph.D.  thesis,  Uppsala]    Jonkoping,  1900. 

Laseriet  i  Ors  och  Elfdalen  1852-1854.    Falun,  1914. 

Hildebrand,  Emil,  and  Ludwig  Stavenow.  Sveriges  historia  till  vara  dagar. 
Stockholm,  1923.  Vols.  11-14. 

Holmberg,  Theodor.  Den  varnpliktige  utuandringen  och  forsvaret.  Falt- 
hogskolans  smaskrifter.    Stockholm,  1903. 

Hovde,  Brynjolf  Jakob.  The  Scandinavian  countries,  1720-1865.  The  rise  of 
the  middle  classes.    Boston.    1943.    2v.    Rev.  ed.,  1948. 

Howard  V.  Swanston.  Nar  Maja-  Lisa  kom  hem  fran  Amerika.  Folkskrifter 
utgifna  af  Nationalforeningen  mot  Emigrationen.   Stockholm,  1908. 

Jansson,  Erik.  Erik  Janssons  afskedstal.  Printed  from  the  original  manu- 
script of  1846.  Galva,  111.,  n.  d. 

Afskedstal  till  alia  Sweriges  innewanare  som  foraktadt  mig,  den 

som    Jesus   hafwer    sandt;    eller    forkastat    det    namnet    Erik    Jansson. 
Soderhamn,  1846. 

Ett  ord  i  sinom  tid,  eller  en  kort  wederlaggning  af  "Erik  Jansis- 

men  i  Helsingland."    Soderhamn,  1846. 

Forklaring   ofwer   den   Heliga   Skrift   eller    cateches.     Forfattad   i 


fragor  och  svar.    Soderhamn,  1846. 

Nagra  ord  till  Guds  forsamling.   Soderhamn,  1846. 

Nagra  Sanger  samt  boner.    Soderhamn,  1846.    Rev.  ed.,  Galva,  111. 


1857. 
Jerrold,  W.  Blanchard.   Travels  and  adventures  in  Sweden  and  Norway:  or, 

Notes  from  the  North  in  1852.  London,  1854. 
Johansson,  Sam.  A.  Ur  minnet.   Skildringar  och  erfarenheter  fran  den  and- 

liga  brytningstiden  i  vart  land  under  midten  och  senare  half  ten  af  forra 

arhundradet.  Eksjo,  1911. 

13 


Johnson,  Pehr.  Allmogeliv  in  Gbinge  fran  borjan  och  mitten  av  1800-talet. 
Tralleborg,  1920. 

Jonzon,  B.  G.  Blad  ur  Bollnas  forsamlings  kyrkohistoria.   Uppsala,  1899. 

Kallstrbm,  [John]  Arvid.  Bidrag  till  den  svenska  pietismens  historia.  Stock- 
holm, 1894. 

Key,  Helmer.  Emigrationsproblemet  och  de  transoceana  kontinenternas 
kbpkraft.    Stockholm,  1925. 

Kjellberg,  Isidor.  Ett  minne.  Till  dem  som  bygga  och  bo  i  och  omkring 
Motala.  Skeninge,  1869. 

Svenska  arbetarembtet  [i  Stockholm,  1879]   och  dess  man.    Ater- 

blick  af  en  mbtesdeltagare.   Linkbping,  1879. 

Sagverksarbetarne  i  Norrland.   Anteckningar  .  .  .  under  ett  besbk 


i   Norrland  strax   efter   sagverksarbetarnes   allmanna,   af   landshbfding 
Treffenberg  valdsamt  undertrykta  arbetsinstallning  i  slutet  af  maj  1879. 
Linkbping,  1879. 
Ur  en  cellfanges  dagbok  under  den  tid — fran  11  april  till  11  juni, 


1881 — han  i  enligt  med  kgl.  m:ts  allernadigaste  dom  hallitis  fbrvarad  i 
Ostergbtlands  lanshakte  med  anledning  af  vice  pastor  Hallanders  sann 
presterliga  tryckfrihetsatal.    Linkbping,  1881. 

Kraemer,  Henry  von.  Ett  ord  till  amerikafararen.  Flygblad  utgifvet  af  Na- 
tionalfbreningen  mot  emigrationen.    Stockholm,  1909. 

Lagergren,  A[nders].  Om  de  andeliga  rbrelserna  i  Sverige  serdeles  med 
afseende  pa  den  riktning  separatisterna  utvecklat.    Stockholm,  1855. 

Laing,  Samuel.   A  tour  in  Sweden  in  1838.  London,  1839. 

Lindberg,  Axel.  Nagra  betraktelser  rbrande  framjandet  af  landets  jordbruk 
och  hammandet  af  emigrationen.   Uppsala,  1882. 

Lindgren,  John.  Det  socialdemokratiska  arbetarpartiets  uppkomst  i  Sverige. 
Stockholm,  1927. 

Lindhagen,  Carl  Albert.  Yttrande  i  riksdagens  andra  kammare  angaende 
emigrationen.   Stockholm,  1869. 

Lloyd,  L[lewellyn].   Peasant  life  in  Sweden.   London,  1870. 

Lumsden,  James.  Sweden,  its  religious  state  and  prospects,  with  some 
notices  of  the  revivals  and  persecutions  which  are  at  present  taking 
place  in  that  country.   London,  1855. 

[Lundquist,  Per  Niklas].   Erik-Jansismen  i  Helsingland.    Gefle,  1845. 

Magnusson,  Gerhard  G.  Social-demokratien  i  Sverige.  Stockholm,  1920- 
1924.   3v. 

Mahn,  G.  H.  F.  Kalifornien  i  Sverige  eller  guldgrufvorna  for  wart  jordbruk. 
Stockholm,  1854. 

Manson,  Fabian.  Rattfardiggbrelsen  genom  tron.  Skildringar  fran  den  fri- 
kyrkliga  rbrelsens  genombrott.   Stockholm,  1917-1918.   2v. 

Marryat,  Horace.  One  year  in  Sweden;  including  a  visit  to  the  Isle  of  Got- 
land.   London,  1862.    2v. 

Michaelson.  Hwad  svenska  folket  har  att  lara  af  det  unga  Amerika.  Stock- 
holm, 1867. 

Milow,  Cecilia.  Alskar  du  ditt  fosterland?    Stockholm,  1904. 

14 


Molin,  Adrian  Leopold.    Emigrationen,  nagra  synpunkter.    Uppsala,  1910. 

Huru  svenskamerikanarna  bo.    Stockholm,  1912. 

Jorden  och  faltet.    Ett  program  i  kolonisationsfragan.    Stockholm, 

1914. 


Nagra  ord  om  Nationalforeningen  mot  emigrationen  —  Sallskapet 

Hem  i  Sverige.   Stockholm,  1932. 

Olands  emigrationsfraga.    Stockholm,  1916. 


Svensk  egnahemspolitik.    Nagra  synpunkter   och  forslag.    Stock- 
holm, 1909. 

Svenska  sporsmal  och  kraf.    Stockholm,  1906. 

Till  saken!    Vidrakning  och  uppslag  i  jordfragan.   Uppsala,  1924. 

Vanhafd.    Inlagg  i  emigrationsfragan.    Stockholm,  1911. 


Montgomery,  M.  W.   A  wind  from  the  Holy  Spirit  in  Sweden  and  Norway. 

New  York,  1884. 
The  work  among  the  Scandinavians,  including  the  Swedes,  Danes, 


and  Norwegians.    New  York,  1888. 
Mugge,  Theodor.   Sverige  1843-44.   Stockholm,  1845. 

Nationalforeningen  mot  emigrationen.  Program  1907-1915.    Stadgar 

1907-1915.   Stockholm,  1907-1915. 

Newman,  Ernst.    Gemenskaps-  och  frihetsstravande  i  svenskt  fromhetsliv 
1809-1855.   Lund,  1939. 

"Hedborgianism"  i  Sverige.    Halsingfors,  1931. 

Svenskt  och  angloamerikanskt.   Uppsala,  1933. 

Den  Waldenstromska  forsoningslaran  i  historisk  belysning.    Stock- 
holm, 1932. 

Nolken,  C.  A.  von.   Nagra  ord  om  svenska  allmogens  utflyttning  till  andra 
verldsdelar.    Lasning  for  allmogen.    Lund,  1855. 

Nordstrom,  N.  J.   De  frikyrkliga  och  statskyrkoproblemet.   Stockholm,  1922. 

En  kulturbild  fran  1800-talets  religiosa  brytningstid.    Den  forsta 

svenska  baptistforsamlingens  uppkomst  och  kamp  for  samvetsfriheten. 
Stockholm,  1926. 

K.  O.  Broady.   En  levnadsteckning.   Stockholm,  1932. 

Svenska  baptistsamfundets  historia.   Stockholm,  1923  and  1928.   2v. 


Nygren,  Anders  Bernard.  Waldenstroms  minnesanteckningar,  1838-1875. 
Stockholm,  1928. 

Nyvall,  David.  Min  faders  testamente.  En  levnadsteckning  over  predikanten 
Karl  Johan  Nyvall.  Fran  hans  "minnen"  och  dagbocker,  skrivna  och 
utgivna  pa  faderns  uppdrag.    Chicago,  1929. 

Olsson,  Carl.  Forsoningen  enligt  C.  O.  Rosenius  och  P.  Waldenstrom.  Stock- 
holm, 1928. 

Om  laseriet  och  laseriforfoljelserna  i  Orsa;  jemte  ett  bref  om  en  paborjad 
likartad  forfoljelse  i  Nerike.   Stockholm,  1854. 

Palmquist,  Per.  En  korsets  harold  eller  Gustaf  Palmquists  lif  tecknad  af 
hans  broder.  Med  forord  och  tillagg  af  H.  Drake.   Stockholm,  1889. 

15 


[Palmstierna,  Carl  Otto].    Ofversigt  af  fattigvards-komitens  betankande  af 
en  riksdagsman.    Stockholm,  1840. 

Peters,  Rolf.    En  liten  historik  over  Vasalogen  Goteborg  n:o  452  de  forsta 
tio  aren  1924-1934.   Goteborg,  1934. 

Pettersson,  Per.   Christendom  och  laseri.    Vesteras,  1868. 

Laseriet,  dess  egendomligheter,  orsaker  och  werkningar  samt  huru 

det  bor  bemotas.  Forsok  till  belysning  for  kyrkans  wanner.  Falun,  1870. 

Plejel,    Hilding.     Fran    fadernas    fromhetsliv,    gestalter    och    stromningar. 
Stockholm,  1939. 

Herrnhutismen  i  Sydsverige.    Stockholm,  1925. 

Ponten,  J.   Om  predikosjukan  i  Smaland.  Vaxjo,  1843. 

Karolinsk     kyrkofromhet,     pietism     och     herrnhutism     1680-1772. 

Stockholm,  1935. 

Raab,  Carl.    Om  statkarls-systemet  i  Sverige.    Stockholm,  1845. 

Reinhold,  Klaes.   Reformsallskaperna  och  de  allmanna  reformmotena  i  Ore- 
bro  ar  1849,  1850,  1853.  Goteborg,  1917. 

Folkvackelsens  forelopare.   Jonkoping,  1943. 

Herrnhutiska  och  nyevangeliska  vackelserorelser  i  Linkopings  stift 

intill  1856.   Ph.D.  thesis,  Uppsala,  1941. 

Roden,  Nils.    Det  norrlandska  nylaseriets  uppkomst.    Stockholm,  1942. 

Rodhe,  Edv.   Kyrkan  och  nykterhetsrorelsen.    En  historisk  studie.    Uppsala, 

1915. 
Ryden,  P[eter],   En  tidsbild  fran  de  religiosa  brytningstiderna  i  Sverige  pa 

1850-talet.   Foredrag.   Minneapolis,  1902. 

Schonberg,  Thure  W.    Sanningen  om  Amerika.    Stockholm,  1909. 

Schroeder,  Gustavus  W.    History  of  the  Swedish  Baptists  in  Sweden  and 

America.    Being  an  account  of  the  origin,  progress  and  results  of  the 

missionary  work  during  the  last  half  of  the  19th  century.    New  York. 

1898. 
Schiitz,  Erik  Jakob.    Om  skifte  af  jord  i  Sverige.    Ett  bidrag  till  kannedom 

om  vara  skiftelagars  uppkomst  och  utveckling  jemte  forsok  till  tolkning 

af  gallande  skiftesstadga.  Stockholm,  1890. 
Scott,  Charles  Henry.    The  Danes  and  the  Swedes,  being  an  account  of  a 

visit  to  Denmark  .  .  .  and  a  journey  across  the  peninsula  of  Sweden  .  .  . 

London,  1856. 
Scott,  George.    Sveriges  religiosa  tillstand  sadant  det  blifvit  uppfattadt  och 

uti  Amerika  framstaldt.   Stockholm,  1841. 
Sefstrom,   Anders   Gustaf.    Nagra   blad   till  historien   om    lasarne   med   af- 

seende  fastadt  pa  de  inom  Helsingland  wistande.   Fahlun,  1841. 
Skoldberg,  S.  E.  Om  choleran  inom  Jonkbpings  Ian  och  det  deraf  uppkomma 

religiosa  svarmeriet.    Jonkoping,  1843. 
Stadling,  George.    Anders  Wibergs  lif  och  verksamhet.    Lund,  1889.    2d  ed. 

Stockholm,  1916. 
Stadling,  Jonas  Jonsson.    Baptisternas  historia.    Stockholm,  1884. 

16 


Steane,  Edward,  and  J.  Howard  Hinton.  Notes  of  a  tour  in  Sweden,  during 
the  summer  of  1858;  including  an  historical  sketch  of  its  religious  con- 
ditions, and  the  question  of  religious  liberty  in  it.   London,  1859. 

Stockenstrand,  J.  L.   Utvandrare,  skildringar.   Stockholm,  1907. 

Sundbarg,  G.  A.  Bidrag  till  utvandringsfragan  fran  befolkningsstatistik 
synpunkt.    Uppsala,  1885-1886. 

Emigrationen.    Uppsala  and  Stockholm,  1906-1907. 

Tankar  i  utvandringsfragor.    Stockholm,  1913. 

Taylor,  Bayard.  Northern  travel;  summer  and  winter  pictures  of  Sweden, 
Lapland,  and  Norway.    London,  1858. 

Tegner,  Esaias.  Wexio  dom-kapitlets  underdaniga  betankande  till  kongl. 
maj:t,  rorande  fattigwarden  i  Wexio  stift.    Jonkoping,  1833. 

Tenngren,   Johan   Fredrik.    Minnen   fran   Vexio   pa   1830-    och    1840-talen. 

Vaxjo,  1912. 
Thomas,  William  Widgery,  Jr.    Fran  slott  till  koja;  minnen  fran  en  flerarig 

vistelse  i  Sverige.    Stockholm,  1891. 

Sweden  and  the  Swedes.    Chicago  and  New  York,  1892. 

Thomasson,  Pehr.  En  arbetars  lefnadsoden  eller  slaflifvet  i  Sverige.  Gote- 
borg,  1859. 

Thorborg,  C.  Emigrationsfragan  studerad  hemma  och  i  Amerika.  Karlstad, 
1906. 

Truve,  T[heodor],  Det  gamla  vittnet.  Nagra  minnesvarda  drag  ur  Johan- 
nes Palmquists  lif  och  verksamhet  till  storsta  delen  efter  hans  egenhan- 
diga  anteckningar.  Med  nagra  fullstandigande  tillagg  efter  olika  kallor 
af  A.  Drake.   Stockholm,  1902. 

Wester,  M.  V.  Smabruksrorelse  for  eller  mot  emigrationen?  Nagra  under - 
sokningar  och  reflektioner  i  ett  aktuellt  sporsmal.    Stockholm,  1913. 

Westin,  Gunnar.  Ett  narmande  mellan  protestant  episkopal-kyrkan  i 
U.  S.  A.  och  svenska  kyrkan;  ett  apropa  till  Augustana  synodens  75- 
arshogtid.  n.  d.,  [1935]. 

Ur  den  svenska  folkvackelsens  historia  och  tankevarld.    C.  O.  Rose- 

nius  brev  till  F.  G.  Hedberg.    Stockholm,  1930. 

Lutheraner,     anglikaner,     reformerta,    kyrkohistoriska     uppsatser. 

Uppsala,  1935. 

Ur  den  svenska  folkvackelsens  historia  och  tankevarld.   Stockholm, 


1931-1934.    3v. 

Wheelwright,  H.  W.  [Old  Bushman,  pseud.]  Ten  years  in  Sweden,  being  a 
description  of  the  landscape,  climate,  domestic  life,  forests,  mines,  agri- 
culture, field  sports,  and  fauna  of  Scandinavia.  London,  1865. 

[Wiberg,  Anders].  Forklaring  afgifwen  infor  Hudikswalls  radstufwuratt  af 
nagra  for  gackeri  med  gudstjensten  och  altarets  hel.  sakrament  ankla- 
gade  personer  jemte  ett  bihang  underhallande  ytterligare  upplysningar 
i  amnet.   Uppsala,  1851. 

Kampen  om  religionsfriheten.    Stockholm,  1942. 

Kyrkor,  sekter  eller  kristen  gemenskap.    Stockholm,  1941. 

17 


Wichman,  Knut.  Karl  XIV  Johans  regering  och  den  liberala  oppositionen 
under  1830-talets  senare  halft.    Ph.D.  thesis,  Gbteborg,  1927. 

Wicksell,  Knut.  Nagra  ord  om  samhallsolyckornas  vigtigaste  orsak  och  bo- 
temedel  med  sarskildt  afseende  pa  dryckenskapen.  Uppsala,  1880. 

Om  utvandringen,  dess  betydelse  och  orsaker.  Foredrag  .  .  .  Stock- 
holm, 1882. 

Wieselgren,  Harald.   Lars  Johan  Hierta;  biografisk  studie.    Stockholm,  1880. 

Wieselgren,  Peter.   En  lefnadsteckning.   Stockholm,  1900. 

Samlade  skrifter  i  nykterhetsfragan.    Stockholm,  1903,  1904. 

Wieselgren,  Sigfrid.    Om  svenska  brannvinslagstiftningen  1855-1877,  jemte 

granskning  af  den  20  december  1878  afgifvet  komitebetankande  med 
forslag  till  nya  brannvinsforfattningar.   Stockholm,  1880. 
Wingborg,  F.  A.   Emigrationen:   nagra  erinringar.    Stockholm,  1910. 

Sverige    eller    Amerika?     Nagra    erinringar   till    dem    som    tanka 

emigrera.   Stockholm,  1904. 

Wohlin,  Nils.  Ojamnheterna  i  det  komunala  skattetrycket  pa  landsbydgen. 
Stockholm,  1908. 

Den  svenska  jordstyckningspolitiken  i  den  18:  de  och  19:  de  arhund- 

radena.   Stockholm,  1912. 

Woods,  F.  H.  Sweden  and  Norway.   London,  1882. 

Wordsworth,  John  [Bishop  of  Salisbury].    The  national  church  of  Sweden. 

London,  1910;  Milwaukee,  1911. 
Wrangel,  Ewert,  Arvid  Gierow   and  Bror  Olsson.    Svenska  folket  genom 

tiderna.    Malmo,  1939.    3v. 
Zethraeus,  Jakob  Ludvig.   Nya  Skandinavien,  eller  skadligheten  for  Sverige 

och  Norrige  af  utflyttningar  sasom  de  nu  ske,  samt  nyttan  och  nodvan- 

digheten  for  dessa  riken  att  ega  kolonier,  jemte  mojligheten  att  dem 

astadkomma.   Stockholm,  1846. 

ARTICLES 
Ander,  O.  Fritiof.    "The  agricultural  revolution  and  Swedish  emigration." 
ASHF,  (1945),  48-54. 

"Causes  of  Swedish  immigration  to  America,  1840-1948."  MD,  June, 

1948.    [Augustana  Centennial  number]. 

Anderson,  Eric  H.  "Emigrationen  f ran  Pjatteryds  socken."  HCF,  (1941). 

Andersson,  S.  "Nagot  om  Erik  Jansismen,  sarskilt  dess  verksamhet  i  Alfta." 
JFA,  (1923),  86-100. 

Appel,  Livia,  and  Theodore  C.  Blegen,  "Official  encouragement  of  immigra- 
tion to  Minnesota  during  the  territorial  period."  MHB,  5  (1923),  167-203. 

A — S — g.  "Tvanne  uppsatser  i  en  av  dagens  i  en  af  dagens  brannande 
fragor."   SFV,  2  (1883). 

Berger,  V[ilhelm].  "Nagra  tankar  om  emigrationsfragan."  VK,  13  (Feb. 
1909) ,  89-93. 

Blegen,  Theodore  C.  "Minnesota's  campaign  for  immigrants."  SHS,  11 
(1926),  3-83. 

Broberg,  Richard.  "The  Swedish  emigration:  its  romantic  and  psychological 
background."   ASD,  pp.  207-222. 

28 


Eklund,  J.  A.  "Utvandringen  till  Norge  fran  Varmland  och  Dal."    [Reprint 
from  Det  Nya  Sverige.]    Stockholm,  1908. 

"Emigration  from  a  Scandinavian  standpoint."  RR,  42  (1910),  240. 

Erdahl,  Sivert.    "Eric  Janson  and  the  Bishop  Hill  Colony."    JIHS,  18   (Oct. 
1925),  503-574. 

Ericson,  C.  J.  A.   "Memories  of  a  Swedish  immigrant  of  1852."  AI,  8  (1907) , 
1-12. 

Esbjorn,  Lars  P.   "De  svenska  lutherska  forsamlingarnas  i  N.  Amerika  upp- 
komst."  KB,  6  (1885),  33-51. 

Essen,  Riitger.    "Emigrationen  fran  Sverige  under  1800-talet."    SVIA,  v.  1, 

pp.  166-196. 
Fahlbeck,  Pontus.   "Emigrationen:  Dess  orsaker  och  medlen  att  stafja  den." 

STP,  (Oct.  1903) . 
Forsander,  Nils.    "Some  religious  movements  in  Sweden."    MC,  8    (1921), 

44-55. 
Gladh,   Henrik.    "Till   halsingelaseriets   och   Erikjansismens    karakteristik." 

KHA,  (1947),  186-212. 

Hansson,  O.    "Nagra  minnen  fran  det  andliga  livets  omrade  i  Ovansjo  for- 

samling  under  senare  halften  av  forra  arhundradet."   JFA,  (1921) ,  111- 

117. 
Hasselquist,  T.  N.    "En  amerikanares  omdome  om  kyrkliga  forhallanden  i 

Sverige,  1871."  TT,  11  (1871),  179-191. 
Hazen,  J.  G.    "Nagra  minnen  fran  religionslifvet  i  Vastbo."    VSH,    (1912), 

14-25. 
Herlenius,  Emil.   "Akianismens  historia.   Ett  bidrag  till  kannedomen  om  det 

svenska  sektvasendet."    Halmstads  allm.  laroverks  program,  1901-1902. 

[Halmstad],  n.  d. 

"Eric-Jansismen   i    Dalarne."     Meddelanden   fran    Dalarnes    forn- 

minnesforening,  (1924). 

"  'Predikare-Lena'  eller  'Hvita  Jungfrun.'    Ett  litet  till  kannedom 


om  de  andliga  rorelserna  inom  Linkopings  stift  fran  1800-talets  borjan." 

KHA,  (1904),  174-184. 
Hofren,  Manne.  "Det  forlovade  landet.  Nagra  smalandska  och  olandsk  bilder 

till  den  stora  emigrationers  historia."  KLA,  (1951),  5-40. 
Holmquist,  Jesper.   "Nagra  blad  ur  laseriets  historia."   KB,  41  (1920),  86-97. 
Hovde,  Brynjolf  G.    "Notes  on  the  effect  of  emigration  upon  Scandinavia." 

JMH,  6  (Sept.  1934),  253-279. 

Hyrenius,   Hannes.    "Swedish   emigration  to   America."    Le   Nord,    (1942), 

52-64. 
Janson,  D.  H.  D.    "Erfarenheter  fran  min  prasterliga   tjanstgbring."    JFA, 

(1923),  76-85. 
Johnsson,  Pehr.    "Fran  T.  N.  Hasselquists  barndomsbygd."    KB,  60   (1939), 

159-170. 
Lagerlof,  Selma.   "En  samvetsfraga."   Midvinter,  (1916),  3-4.    (Reprinted  in 

her  Troll  och  mdnniskor  [1921]   and  called  "I  emigrationsfagan.") 
"Lycksalighetens  land."    Idun    (Christmas  number,  1920),  7-8. 

19 


Leffler,  J.  A.   "Om  utvandringen."   NEFH,  (1889),  45-58. 

"Vara   jordbruksarbetare   med  sarskildt  afseende   pa   den   ameri- 

kanska  konkurrensen."   NEFH,  (1887),  49-62. 

Lindahl,  Mac.    "Svensk-amerikanska  nyhetsbyran  i  New  York  och  Stock- 
holm infor  30-arjubileet."    US,  13    (Oct.  1951),  9-15. 

Lindgren,  Karl.    "Nativiteteminskning  i  Sverige  efter  1910."    NS,    (March, 
1928) . 

Lindskog,  Fredrik.    "Nagra  synpunkter  i  fragan  om  den  svenska  emigra- 
tionens  organisation."    RFA,   (1925),  73-89. 

Lindstrom,  David  E.    "The  Bishop  Hill  settlement."    ASHF,    (1945),  35-62. 

Ljungberg,  E.  J.    "Nagra  synpunkter  pa  emigrationsfragan."    NS,  4   (1910), 
50-58. 

Moberg,  Vilhelm.    "How  the  America-legend  was  born  in  Sweden."    ASM, 
42  (Dec.  1948) ,  6-7,  40,  42. 

Molin,  Adrian.  "Folkskolan  och  emigrationen."  NS,  2  (1908),  351-366. 

"Olandsemigrationen  och  blanningarna."   SD,  (Feb.  12,  1917) . 

Nilsson,  Emil.  "En  viktig  och  betydelsefull  fraga  i  var  varnpliktsutbildning." 
Stockholm.  SNF,  4  (1902) ,  1-24. 

Norelius,  Erik.    "Den  forsta  svenska  invandringen  till  Forenta   Staterna." 
PB,  1  (1900),  37-49. 

Northland,  G.  "Inducing  Swedes  to  return  to  Sweden."  WT  (Aug.  1907) . 

Ollen,  N.  P.   "De  frikyrkliges  politiska  ansvar."  FF,  (1924) ,  176-192. 

"Om  den  religiosa  separatismen  i  landet  fornamligast  i  erkestiftet.  Ur  erke- 
biskopens  berattelse  vid  sist  hallna  prestmote."  SKT,  (1859) ,  193-205. 

Roden,  Nils.    "Evangeliska  fosterlands-stiftelsen."    SF,  v.  2,  pp.  27-59. 

"Herrnhutismen  i  Norrland."  KHA,  38  (1938),  160-204. 

Scott,  Franklin  D.   "American  influence  in  Norway  and  Sweden."   JMH,  18 
(March  1946),  37-47. 

"Mr.  Klinckowstrom's  America."   SPHQ,  3  (Winter  1952),  3-18. 

Soderblom,  Anna.    "Lasare  och  Amerikafarare  pa  1840-talet."    JH,    (1925), 

80-93. 
Sonden,  C.  U.    "Anteckningar  och  reflexioner,   angaende   den   epidemiska 

religiosa  ecstas,  som  herrskade  i  Sverige  ar  1841  och  1842;  en  sjukdom 

i  medeltiden,  kand  under  namnet:    Chorea  S:t  Vita."    HY,   (Dec.  1842- 

July  1843). 
Stephenson,  George  M.  "An  America  letter  of  1849."  SHS,  11  (1926),  84-102. 

"Some  footnotes  to  the  history  of  Swedish  immigration  from  about 

1855  to  about  1865."  SHS,  7  (1921-22),  33-52. 

"The  background  of  the  beginnings  of  Swedish  immigration,  1850- 

1875."  AHR,  31  (July  1926) ,  708-731. 

"The  mind  of  the  Scandinavian  immigrant."    NAHS,  (1929),  63-73. 

"Typical  America  letters  1859-1869."   SHS,  7  (1921-22),  52-93. 


Stomberg,  A.  A.  "Letters  of  an  early  emigrant  agent  in  Scandinavian  coun- 
tries."  SAHB,  3  (June  1930),  7-52. 

20 


[Swan,  G.  N.]  "Kronologisk  redogorelse  for  den  tidiga  svenska  emigrationen 
till  Forenta  Staterna."  (Clippings  by  G.  N.  Swan  from  Svenska  Moni- 
toren  during  1918.   AL.) 

Thornberg,  E[rnst]  H[erman].  "Folkrorelsen  och  emigrationen."  NS,  (1914), 
228-243. 

"Pingstvackelsen  och  Sveriges  religiosa  folkrorelser."    ST,   (1926), 

298-310. 

Wallis,  Curt.  "Ett  besok  hos  mormonerna."  NT,  (1888),  351-370;  405-424. 
Wallman,  Bengt.  "Hilleprasten  som  for  till  Amerika."  JFA,  (1942) . 
Westin,  Gunnar.    "Background  of  the  Swedish  pioneer  immigration,  1840- 
1850."  ASHF,  (1948),  20-31. 

"Brev  fran  C.  O.  Rosenius  till  Amerika."  KHA,  (1930) ,  239-348. 

"Brev  fran  L.  P.  Esbjorn  1840-1850."  KHA,  (1946),  211-266. 

"George  Scott's  journey  to  America."  SAHB,  5  (June  1932) ,  7-30. 

"Den  svenska  frikyrkororelsens  behandling  i  vara  larobacker."  FF, 

(1924),  134-147. 

Westling,  G.    "Den  religiosa  stallningen  inom  Linkopings  stift  under  1800- 

talet."  KHA,  (1913),  37-132. 
Wieselgren,  Harald.  "Almquist  bref  fran  Amerika."  SAT,  23  (1902),  113-123. 


SWEDISH  PERIODICALS  OF  IMPORTANCE 
IN  THE  STUDY  OF  EMIGRATION 

Allsvensk  samling.  Published  by  Riksforeningen  for  svenskhetens  beva- 
rande  i  utlandet.    Goteborg,  1914-. 

Allsvensk  samling,  Amerika -nummer,  Juni,  1948 

Amerika  bladet.  Orebro,  1869-1870. 

Amerikanaren.  Meddelar  nyheter  om  svenskarne  i  Amerika.  Utg.  A.  H. 
Holmberg.  No.  1  onsdagen  den  8  maj  1889.  Halmstad,  1889. 

Amerikanska  posten.    Stockholm,  1893-1894. 

Arsbok.  Utg.  av  Riksforeningen  for  svenskhetens  bevarande  i  utlandet. 
Goteborg,  1909-1932. 

Hem  i  Sverige.  Kvartalskrift  utgifven  af  National-foreningen  mot  emigra- 
tionen.   (1908-1918)    (A  continuation  of  Kvartalsblad  utgifvet  af  .  .  .) 

Kvartalsblad  utgifvet  af  National  foreningen  mot  emigrationen.  Stockholm, 
1908-.    (Continued  as  Hem  i  Sverige.) 

Svensk-amerikanska  posten.   No.  1  Onsdagen  den  1  juli  1925  Stockholm. 

Utlandssvenskarna.  Organ  for  Utlandssvenskarnas  forening.  Stockholm, 
1939-. 

Vintersol.   Illustrerad  kalender.   Stockholm,  1892-1925. 

Vara  svenskar.  Organ  for  utlandssvenskar  i  Sverige  och  utlandet.  Stock- 
holm, 1933-1940. 

Wecko-post  fran  Amerika.  N:o  1  thorsdagen  den  2  September  1869.  Stock- 
holm. 

21 


OFFICIAL  SWEDISH  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS 

Bidrag  till  Sveriges  officiella  statistik.    Befolkningsstatistik.    Ny  foljd.    1-52. 
Statistiska  centralstyrelsens  berattelser  1851/55,  1856/60,  1861-1910. 

C.    [Bergshandtering.   Aldre  foljd.   2.]    Bergskollegii  och  Kommer- 

skollegii  berattelser  1833-1857.    [Ny  foljd].   Kommerskollegii  berattelser 
1858-1910.   Stockholm,  1832-1912. 

D.    [Fabriker  och  manufakturer.    Aldre  foljd.]     Kommerskollegii 


berattelser  1830-1857.  Fabriker  och  [1858-1895:]  manufakturer  [1896- 
1910:]  handtverk.  [Ny  foljd.]  Kommerskollegii  berattelser  1858-1910. 
Stockholm,  1830-1912. 

E.   [Inrikes  sjofart.  Aldre  foljd].  Kommerskollegii  berattelser  1828- 


1857.  Inrikes  sjofart.  [Ny  foljd].  Kommerskollegii  berattelser  1858-1864. 
Inrikes  sjofart  och  handel.  Kommerskollegii  berattelser  1865-1894.  Sjo- 
fart.  Kommerskollegii  berattelser  1895-1910.   Stockholm,  1830-1912. 

F.   [Utrikes  handel  och  sjofart.  Aldre  foljd].  Sammandrag  av  kon- 


sulernes  insande  skeppslistor  1824-1827  [samt:].  Kommerskollegii  berat- 
telser om  rikets  utrikes  sjofart  1828-1857.  Utrikes  handel  och  sjofart. 
[Ny  foljd].  Kommerskollegii  berattelser  1858-1894.  Handel.  Kommer- 
skollegii berattelser  1895-1910.  Stockholm,  1830-1912. 

H.    Kungl.    maj:ts  befallningshafvandes  femarsberattelser.    [Aldre 

foljder  t.  o.  m.  1855].  Kungl.  maj:ts  befallningshafvandes  femarsberat- 
telser. [Ny  foljd].  Utarb.  av  Statistiska  centralbyran.  1856/60-1901/05. 

K.   [Halso-  och  sjukvarden  Aldre  foljd].  Sundhetskollegii  berattel- 


ser 1851-1860.  Halso-  och  sjukvarden.  [Ny  foljd.  1.]  Sundhetskollegii 
och  Medicinalstyrelsens  berattelser  1861-1910.  Halso-  och  sjukvard.  [Ny 
foljd.  2.]  Overstyrelsens  over  hospitalen  och  Medicinalstyrelsens  berat- 
telser ang  sinnessjukvarden  1861-1910.   Stockholm,  1853-1912. 

N.    Jordbruk  och  boskapsskotsel.    [Foljd  1].    Hushallningssallska- 

pens  berattelser  1865-1911.  Jordbruk  och  boskapsskotsel.  [Foljd  2]. 
Sammandrag  av  K.  maj:ts  bef.-h:s  arsvaxtsberattelser  1874-1910.  Stock- 
holm, 1865-1911. 

Q.     Skogsvasendet.    1.     Skogsstyrelsens   berattelse    intill    ar    1870. 

Skogsvasendet.  2-20.  Skogsstyrelsens  och  domanstyrelsens  berattelser 
1870-1888.  Statens  domaner.  Domanstyrelsens  berattelser  1889-1910. 
Stockholm,  1889-1910. 

U.  Kommunernas  fattigvard  och  finanser.  1-44.  Statistiska  central- 


byrans  underdaniga  berattelse  for  ar  .  .  .  1874-1917.    Stockholm,  1877- 

1920. 
Bihang  till  riksstandents  protokoll  1862-1863.    4  saml.  2  afd.  Statsutskottets 

memorial,  utlatanden  och  betankanden  N:  o  3. 
Gullberg,  Hj.,  and  G.  Sundbarg.    Folkmangden  och  folkokningen  i  Skandi- 

navien  1815-1880.    Stockholm,  1882. 
Jonson,  Viktor.   Nordamerikanska  landtbruksstudier.   Stockholm,  1908. 

Lewenhaupt,  Carl.  Berattelse  af  Kongl.  Maj:ts  charge  d'affaires  i  Washing- 
ton rorande  emigrationen  fran  de  forenade  rikena  till  Amerikas  Forenta 
Stater.   Stockholm,  1871. 

22 


Meddelanden.    Sociala  meddelanden.    Utg.  af  Kungl.   kommerskollegii  af- 

delning  for  arbetsstatistik  [senare:   Kungl.  socialstyrelsen].    Stockholm, 

1912-1928. 
Sjocrona,    C.    Om   utvandringen.    Utlatande   afgifvet   pa  nadig   bef alining. 

Mariestad,  1882. 
Sundbarg,  G.   Sweden:  its  people  and  its  industry.   Historical  and  statistical 

handbook.  Stockholm,  1904. 
Sveriges  officiella  statistik.  Stockholm  [m.  fl.],  1769-. 
Sveriges  land  och  folk.    Historisk-statistisk  handbok  utg.  av  J.  Guinchard. 

D.  1-2.  Stockholm,  1915-1916. 
Sweden.    Historical   and   statistical   handbook.    By   order  of   the    Swedish 

government;  ed.  by  J.  Guinchard.   D.  1-2.    Stockholm,  1914. 


23 


Chapter  Three 


AMERICA  BOOKS 

America  books  stimulated  an  interest  in  America  and  a  desire  to  emi- 
grate from  Sweden.  The  term  "America  book"  is  not  easily  defined.  In  the 
broadest  sense  any  work  dealing  specifically  with  America  might  be  in- 
cluded from  James  Fenimore  Cooper's  The  Deerslayer  to  the  more  recent 
dime  novels  of  the  Wild  West,  which,  by  the  way,  enjoyed  great  popu- 
larity. American  literature  has  long  been  popular  in  Sweden,  where  Ameri- 
can authors  are  as  well  known  as  they  are  here,  but  their  works  must  be 
excluded  here  from  America  books.  This  bibliography  includes  only  those 
which  might  be  classified  as  descriptive  works  of  America,  limiting  itself 
essentially  to  Swedish  visitors'  impressions  of  America. 

Prior  to  1860  Swedish  conceptions  of  America  were  often  shaped  by 
French,  German,  and  English  visitors  to  America — a  literature  to  which 
several  good  guides  have  been  prepared.  The  more  important  writers  in- 
cluded Harriet  Martineau,  Alexis  de  Toqueville,  and  Frances  Wright.  It  must 
be  understood  that  these  authors  might  not  have  been  read  necessarily  by 
those  who  emigrated,  but  their  America  books  were  discussed  by  the  Swed- 
ish press  and  the  discussions  did  much  in  shaping  an  opinion  about  Amer- 
ica. Strong  Anglo-American  influences  were  making  themselves  felt  in 
Sweden,  and  in  the  light  of  these  it  would  hardly  be  possible  to  ignore 
among  the  America  books  a  volume  written  by  Robert  Baird,  whose  efforts 
to  spread  the  gospel  of  temperance  had  enjoyed  royal  sympathy.  The  list  of 
authors  could  be  expanded  to  include  many  whose  impressions  of  America 
secured  the  attention  of  the  press,  such  as  Hall,  Hamilton,  Mrs.  Trollope, 
Stuart,  Beaumont,  Dickens,  Chevalier,  Power,  Lyell,  and  others;  but  such 
a  list  comes  outside  of  the  scope  of  this  bibliography.  More  important  are 
the  descriptions  of  America  by  such  persons  as  Carl  David  Arfwedson,  Fred- 
rika  Bremer,  Carl  August  Gosselman,  Carl  Ulrich  von  Hauswolff,  Leonard 
Klinkowstrom,  and  Per  Adam  Siljestrom.  Siljestrom's  account  of  America 
is  regarded  as  one  of  the  best  on  education  in  America  written  prior  to  the 
Civil  War.  Of  course,  Fredrika  Bremer  is  highly  esteemed. 

It  is  not  easy  to  judge  the  relative  importance  of  a  given  number  of 
travelogues  as  factors  in  creating  an  interest  in  emigration.  Such  criteria 
as  the  date  of  publication  might  seem  relevant.  Hauswolff's  description  of 
America  would  appear  to  have  been  published  too  early  to  have  had  a 
great  influence  on  emigration.  The  date  of  publication  seems  here  to  be 
irrelevant.  Hauswolff  was  compelled  to  answer  adverse  criticisms  by  Nya 
Ajtonbladet  fifteen  years  after  the  publication  of  his  America  book  in  a 
reply  which  he  entitled  Till  det  Nya  Ajtonbladet  svar  pa  dess;  Nagot  om  de 
Forenta  Staterna  i  Norra  Amerika  (Norrkoping,  1855).  It  is  a  well-known 
fact  that  Unonius  was  acquainted  with  the  work  of  Hauswolff. 

But  more  and  more  emigrants  left  Sweden  for  America.  Their  letters 
arrived  in  Sweden  addressed  to  relatives,  friends,  newspapers,  and  periodi- 

24 


cals  and  a  new  interest  in  America  was  awakened.  A  few  emigrants  re- 
turned home  and  wrote  accounts  of  their  experiences  in  America.  The  most 
important  of  these  was  Gustaf  Unonius,  whose  account  has  recently  been 
translated  by  Jonas  Oscar  Backlund  in  A  Pioneer  in  Northwest  America 
1841-1858  as  the  only  significant  publication  of  the  Swedish  Pioneer  His- 
torical Society.  Col.  Hans  Mattson,  who  was  one  of  the  best-known  figures 
among  the  Swedish  immigrants,  had  his  recollections  published  in  Sweden 
even  though  he  did  not  return  to  his  native  land  to  live.  This  form  of 
literature  grew  richer  as  more  emigrants  returned  to  the  land  of  their  birth. 
A  few  of  these  had  been  associated  either  with  the  immigrant  press  or  the 
church,  and  they  were  unusually  well  qualified  to  describe  the  life  among 
their  fellow-countrymen  in  America.  Those  whose  association  had  been 
with  the  press  frequently  sought  to  secure  the  attention  of  the  public  by 
giving  their  accounts  titles  which  would  catch  the  attention  of  the  public. 
They  would  also  at  times  popularize  their  accounts  to  such  an  extent  as  to 
turn  them  into  a  class  of  "semi-fiction"  for  which  the  Swedes  have  a  good 
word,  namely,  romantiserad  skildring. 

The  America  books  written  by  a  returning  emigrant  or  a  Swedish  visitor 
to  America  after  1865-1870  have  another  interest  to  the  historian  than  that 
concerned  with  stimulating  emigration  from  Sweden.  They  contain  invalu- 
able information  about  the  immigrants  in  America,  their  distribution,  their 
churches,  press,  occupations  and  professions,  their  reactions  to  America, 
their  sentiments  for  the  old  country,  and  their  adjustments  to  American  life. 
Prior  to  1910  this  literature  was  not  important  quantitatively,  but  in  quality 
it  has  perhaps  a  greater  significance  than  the  deluge  of  travel  descriptions 
by  Swedes  of  America  which  was  to  follow.  These  more  important  ob- 
servers of  American  life  and  Swedish  settlements  in  the  United  States  in- 
clude Ernst  Beckman,  Hugo  Nisbeth,  Carl  Sundbeck,  Joel  Thulin,  G.  von 
Wendt,  August  Palm,  and  Paul  Peter  Waldenstrom.  The  last  is  one  of 
many  clergymen  from  Sweden  to  visit  America,  but  no  one  else's  accounts 
created  a  greater  controversy  than  those  of  the  very  observing  Walden- 
strom. 

Unfortunately  there  were  authors  of  America  books  from  Sweden  who 
showed  no  great  interest  in  the  Swedish  settlements  in  America,  as  for 
instance  Anna  Lenah  Elgstrom,  Thorsten  Gislen,  Sven  Anders  Heden,  Siri 
Hard  af  Segerstad,  Claes  Adem  Carl  Lewenhaupt,  Martha  Lindquist,  Gustaf 
Adolf  Nordenskiold,  Folke  Adolphson  Palander  and  a  few  others.  Science, 
crime  or  Hollywood  seemed  more  worthy  of  the  attention  of  some  visitors 
than  the  unexciting  routine  of  everyday  life  among  the  immigrants. 

Racial  and  religious  prejudices  are  to  be  found  among  all  people,  and  a 
large  number  of  America  books  contained  a  morbid  interest  in  the  Mor- 
mons. Anti-Mormon  literature  published  in  Sweden  grew  partly  out  of 
curiosity  and  partly  out  of  the  desire  to  counteract  the  missionary  activi- 
ties of  the  Mormons  in  Sweden.  This  literature  was  seldom  the  product  of 
Swedes  themselves  and,  therefore,  it  has  not  been  included  in  this  chapter 
since  it  was  not  important  in  formulating  new  concepts  of  America.  Un- 
fortunately it  must  be  said  that  the  anti-Mormon  publications  gave  the  im- 
pression of  being  true  accounts  of  visitors  in  the  form  of  travelogues  or 
"the  inside  story"  of  the  secrets  of  the  Mormons  revealed  by  a  former 
"saint"  or  a  woman  who  had  escaped  from  Utah. 

25 


Another  form  of  America  books  is  to  be  found  within  the  realm  of  fic- 
tion. These  could  not  be  included  within  the  scope  of  this  bibliography 
even  when  written  by  Swedish  authors  and  pertaining  to  Swedish  emigra- 
tion and  immigrants  in  America.  Their  story  was  very  different  from  the 
stories  of  cowboys,  Indians  and  burning  prairies  so  familiar  to  the  youth  of 
Sweden  a  generation  or  more  ago.  The  theme  needed  the  mind  of  an  artist 
as  well  as  the  mind  of  an  historian,  for  it  concerned  itself  with  a  topic  too 
close  to  the  average  home  in  Sweden  to  be  dealt  with  effectively  and  ac- 
ceptably purely  as  a  matter  of  fiction  or  the  work  of  the  imagination.  A 
number  of  novels  have  been  written  in  Sweden  about  the  emigrant  as  well 
as  about  the  immigrant,  but  the  greatest  number  of  these  are  not  great  as 
works  of  literature  and  fall  short  on  other  counts  as  well.  Some  authors 
lacked  an  understanding  of  America's  magnetic  powers  for  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  Swedes  and  the  motives  of  emigration  which  were  frequently 
accompanied  by  great  personal,  intellectual  and  spiritual  struggles.  Others 
wrote  a  fiction  based  on  actual  experiences,  and  these  might  offer  both  a 
pleasant  and  realistic  account  of  the  life  among  the  immigrants  without 
having  great  literary  merits.  Emigration  from  Sweden  is  a  field  yet  to  be 
successfully  exploited  by  the  novelist.  The  works  of  Vilhelm  Moberg  and 
Albin  Widen  seem  to  indicate  that  the  time  has  arrived  for  the  novelist  to 
turn  to  the  rich  and  largely  unexploited  field  of  emigration.  There  has 
been  a  growing  interest  in  this  literature  in  Sweden  as  is  indicated  also  by 
the  larger  number  of  novelists  who  have  turned  to  this  field  within  the  last 
few  years.  Of  these  Walter  Dickson,  Ture  Nerman  and  others  are  repre- 
sentative. E.  Gustav  Johnson  has  recently  prepared  a  guide  to  "Some  Swed- 
ish Travelogues  and  Records  of  Experiences  in  America."  (SPHQ,  3  [Oct. 
1952],  104-112). 


REFERENCES 

Afzelius,  Ivar.    Med  "de  Svenske"  till  Stillahavskusten.    20.000  miles  under 

sangarfanan.   Stockholm,  1927. 
Albertson,  Bror.  Till  det  soliga  Florida.  Goteborg,  1926. 
Andersson,  Axel.    Harda  ar.    En  emigrants  oden  och  upplevelser  i  dollar- 

landet.  Orebro,  1940. 
Anderson,  N.  J.    En  verldsomsegling  skildrad  i  bref.    Stockholm,  1853-1854. 
Anna  Maria.   Tio  ar  i  Forenta  Staterna.   Ystad,  1880. 

Annerstedt,  Herman.   Minnen  fran  fjerran  lander  i  Amerika.    Uppsala,  1872. 
Arfwedson,  C.  D.    Forenta  Staterna  och  Canada,  aren  1832,  1833  och  1834. 

Stockholm,  1835. 

Minnen  fran  Europa  och  Amerika  af  forfattaren  till  "Foren-Sta- 

terna  och  Canada"  m.  fl.   Stockholm,  1837. 

Scener  i  Nord -Amerika.   Ur  en  svensk  resandes  minnesbok.  Stock- 


holm, 1836. 
Aslagsson,   Olai.    Med  snalskjuts.    Upplevelser  pa   amerikanska  jarnvagar, 

Lund,  1923. 
Assar,  A.  O.  Mormonernas  Zion.   Studier  och  iakttagelser  fran  Saltsjbstaden. 

Stockholm,  1911. 
Atterling,  Carl.   Genom  ekluten  i  Amerika.   Stockholm,  1910. 

26 


Beckman,  Ernst.  Amerikanska  studier.  Stockholm,  1883. 

Fran   nya    verlden.    Reseskildringar    fran    Nordamerikas    Forenta 

Stater.  Stockholm,  1877. 
Bengendal,  Johan.  Amerika  brev.  Uppsala,  1925. 
Berg,  P.  C.  Svenska  minnen  pa  utlandska  orter.   Stockholm,  1874. 
Bergman,  Joh[an].   Intryck  fran  Amerika  just  nu.    Stenografiskt  referat  av 

ett  foredrag  i  Stockholm  den  20  jan.  1926.  Stockholm,  1926. 
Bjerking,  Arvid,  ed.    En  skansk  banbrytare  i  Amerika:    Trued  Granville 

Pearsons  sjalvbiografi.   Oskarshamn,  1937. 
Bjorck,  Percy.   Mitt  Ellis-Island-aventyr.   Emigrantliv.   Malmo,  1914. 
Bjork,  O.  L.    Pa  tusenmilafard.    Minnen  och  intryck  fran  en  resa  genom 

Forenta  Staterna  1926-1927.  Orebro,  1928. 
[Blad,  P.  J.].   Bland  battre  folk  och  pack  i  "det  forlofvade  landet."   Svensk- 

amerikanska  skizzer  af  en  hemkommen.   Stockholm,  1871. 
Bohlin,  K.  J.   Genom  den  stora  vastern.    Minnen  fran  varldsutstallningen  i 

Chicago,  Klippbergen,  Mormonernas  Zion,  Stillahafskusten  och  Yellow- 

stoneparken.   Stockholm,  1893. 

Bourkersson,  N.  Tre  ar  i  mormonlandet.  Berattelser  och  iakttagelser.  Stock- 
holm, 1867. 

Bremer,  Fredrika.  Det  unga  Amerika.  Skildringar,  sammanstallda  och  kom- 
menterade  av  Klara  Johanson.  Stockholm,  1929. 

Hemmen  i  nya  verlden.    En  dagbok  i  bref,  skrifna  under  tvenne 

ars  resor  i  Norra  Amerika  och  pa  Cuba.    Stockholm,  1853-1854.   3v. 

Bruhn,  Carl.   Stanna  hemma!   Amerikanska  penndrag.   Stockholm,  1916. 

Carlsson,  A.  G.  En  emigrants  resa.  Chicago,  1894. 

Carlsson,  C.  P.  I  palmernas  skugga.  En  halsning  fran  stjarnbanerets  land. 
Karlstad,  1913. 

Cassel,  Hj.  Bland  svenskar  och  yankees.  En  svensk  tidningsmans  minnen 
fran  Amerika.   Stockholm,  1894. 

Cavling,  Henrik.   Amerika.  Stockholm,  1898. 

Colling,  Fritiof.  I  Sverige  och  Amerika.  Hvarjehanda  smabitar  af  en  vand- 
ringsman.  Tidaholm,  1906. 

Dahlberg,  Erik.  Hundar  i  Klippiga  bergen.  En  samling  historier  fran 
Vastern.  Stockholm,  1944. 

Dalin,  Frank.  Med  Amerikabilen  genom  Sverige.  En  halsning  fran  det 
gamla  landet  till  det  nya.   Stockholm,  1926. 

Danielson,  [K.]  Hj.  Fran  Stockholm  till  Stilla  Oceanen.  Intryck  och  iakt- 
tagelser under  resor  i  Nordamerikas  Forenta  Stater  fran  Newyorks 
frihetsstaty  till  San  Franciscos  gyllene  port.  Stockholm,  1928. 

Edgren,  Hjalmar.  Forenta  Staternas  folkskolor  och  hogre  larosaten.  Upp- 
sala, 1879. 

Edlund,  [Erik]  Martin.  En  resa  i  Vasterled.  Uppsala,  1948. 

Egardh,  Johan.   Swanson,  Johnson  och  Nelson  i  U.  S.  A.   Stockholm,  1924. 

Egerstrom,  C.  Axel.  Borta  ar  bra  men  hemma  ar  bast.  Berattelser  om  en 
fard  till  Ostindien,  Nordamerika,  Kalifornien,  Sandwichoarna  och  Au- 
stralien  aren  1852-1857.   Stockholm  och  Soderkoping,  1859. 

27 


Ekstrbm,  A.   Svenskar,  yankees  och  kannibaler.   Stockholm,  1925. 

Elgenberg,   [Nils]   Anders.    I  vasterled  under  sangarfana;  skildringar  fran 
Stockholms  studentsangarforbunds  Amerikafard,  1925.    Stockholm,  1926. 

Elgstrom,  Anna  Lenah.   Hollywood  inifran.   Stockholm,  1934. 

U.  S.  A.  i  omens  tecken.  Stockholm,  1934. 

and  Collijn,  Gustaf.  U.  S.  A.;  liv  och  teater.  Stockholm,  1927. 

Ellberg,  John.  Tales  of  a  rambler.  New  York,  1938. 

Enander,  Joh  A.   Mormonismens  historia  fran  sektens  uppkomst  till  narva- 
rande  tid.  Vanersborg,  1865. 

Englund,  Joh.  Fr.  Chicago  i  ord  och  bild.  Malmo,  1910. 

Pa  aventyr  i  Vilda  Vastern  och  Alaska.    Verklighetsskildringar. 

Oskarshamn,  1924. 

Ericsson,  Gustaf.  Bland  fangar  och  filmhjaltar  i  U.  S.  A.   Stockholm,  1924. 

Hundliv  i  U.  S.   A.    Oden  och  aventyr  upplevda   och  berattade. 

Stockholm,  1923. 

Med    begransade    medel    i    de    obegransade    moj ligheternas    land. 


Stockholm,  1925. 
F.  L.  H.  Fran  det  stora  amerikanska  darhuset.   n.p.,  n.d. 
Feilitzen,  Hjalmar  von.    Ett  och  annat  fran  en  Amerikaresa.    Foredrag  vid 

tekniska  foreningens  i  Jonkoping  julfest  den  14  dec.  1912.    Jonkoping, 

1913. 

Ferneborg,  A.  En  emigrants  lif  i  Amerika.    Gefle,  1911. 

Fjellander,  Axel  C.  F.  Svenska  ungdomens  Amerikafard  1927.  Meddelanden 
fran  bestyrelsen.  Landskrona,  1926-1927. 

Forsberg,  [Carl]  Gustaf.  Nagra  intryck  och  erfarenheter  fran  ett  kort  besok 
i  Amerika  for  studier  betraffande  arbetarskydd  och  industriell  ekonomi. 
Goteborg,  1920. 

Fotografiska  vyer  af  verldsutstallningen  (1893)  och  Midway  Plaisance. 
Bilder  med  svensk  text.  Chicago,  1894. 

Frenssen,  Gustav.  Brev  fran  Amerika.  Stockholm,  1924. 

[Gestrin,  Carl  Edvard  Herman],  I  Amerika.  Intryck  och  erfarenheter  under 
ett  tolfarigt  vistande  i  Forenta  Staterna  af  en  f.d.  Stockholmsnotarie. 
Stockholm,  1881-1882. 

Gillen,  C.  W.  Minnen  fran  mina  resor  genom  Norra  Amerikas  Forenta 
Stater  och  Canada.  Orebro,  1897. 

Gislen,  Torsten.  Fran  Hawaiis  strander  till  New  Yorks  skyskrapor.  Stock- 
holm, 1935. 

Gohl,  Cecile.  Fran  nya  varlden.   Skildringar.   Goteborg,  1895. 

Gosselman,  Carl  August.   Resa  i  Norra  Amerika.    Nykoping,  1835.    2v. 

Govenius,  Lars  Johan.  Fregatten  Norrkopings  expedition  1861-1862.  Gote- 
borg, 1862. 

Lithografiska   skizzer   fran   fregatten   Norrkopings   expedition   till 

Amerika  och  Westindien  1861-1862.  Stockholm,  1863. 

Granberg,  Einar.  Harjedalingar  i  Vasterled.  Minnesanteckningar  fran  hem- 
bygden  och  pionjartiden  i  USA.   Sundsvall,  1949. 

28 


Gullander,  Paul.    Tre   ar   i  Afrika.    Jamte   minnen  fran  Sverige   och   det 

Heliga  Landet  samt  Amerikas  Forenta  Stater.   Rock  Island,  1902. 
Gullberg,  Gustaf.    Boken  om  Chicago.    Snabbmalningar  fran   en  resa   till 

verldsutstallningen  1893.   Stockholm,  1893. 
Gyllenram,  Henric,  and  Arvid  Wester.   De  svenska  militarerna  vid  Chicagos 

femtioarsjubileum.  Dagboksanteckningar.   Stockholm,  1888. 
Hagstrom,  Gustave  Arvid.   Life  of  Dr.  Frank  Peterson.   Autobiography  with 

additions.  Chicago,  n.d. 
Hammar,  Hugo.   Minnen  II:  Som  emigrant  i  USA.   Stockholm,  1938. 
Hammarberg,    Agnes    E.     Svensken,    svensk-amerikanen    och    amerikanen. 

Stockholm,  1928. 

Hanstrom,  Bertil.   Skizzer  fran  en  Kaliforniafard.   Lund,  1922. 

Hard  af  Segerstad,  Siri.  Bland  hundraprocents  Amerikanare  och  andra.  En 
skadespelerskas  och  journalists  upplevelser  i  det  stora  landet.  Stock- 
holm, 1922. 

Hauswolff,  Carl  Ulrich  von.  Teckningar  utur  sallskapslifvet  i  Nordamerikas 
Forenta  Stater.  Norrkoping,  1835. 

Hedberg,  Anders.   Kooperativa  Amerika-glimtar.    Stockholm,  1948. 

Sa  gor  man  i  Amerika.    Affarsglimtar  fran  U.  S.  A.    Stockholm, 

1939. 

Hedberg,  Lydia.  Reseminnen  fran  U.  S.  A.   Skovde,  1925. 

Hedin,  Sven.  Grand  Canyon.   Stockholm,  1925. 

Hedlund,  John.  I  Amerika.   Resor  och  reflexioner.   Orebro,  1948. 

Hellman,  Caroline.  En  av  de  manga  med  Kungsholm  till  Nya  Sverige-jubi- 

leet.  Reseskildring.   Ljungby,  1938. 
Henrikson,  Fritz.    Med  Sveriges  kronprinspar  genom  Amerika.    Stockholm, 

1926. 

Sweden's  participation  in  U.  S.  celebration  of  the  New  Sweden 

tercentenary.  Stockholm,  1939. 

Hesse,  Wartegg  Ernst.    Chicago,  varldstaden  i  den  Amerikanska  vastern. 

Stockholm,  1893. 

Nord-Amerika  i  vara  dagar.   Stockholm,  1880-1881.   2v. 

Hirdman,  Maj.  Resa  till  Amerika.   Stockholm,  1926. 

Hjelm,  C.  G.  Genom  mina  amerikanska  glasogon.   Stockholm,  1940. 

Hulthin,  H.  M.    [Fallenius,  Carl  Johan  Nilsson].    Fallebo  gok  eller  den  sig 

sjalf  sa  kallade  doktor  Roback,  handelsman   i  Doderhultsvik,   under- 

gorare   i   Amerika   och   furste  for  allt   hvad   puff   och  humbug  heter. 

Sannsaga  ur  verkliga  lifvet.  Westervik,  1875. 
Hoving,  Johannes.  Den  svenska  kolonisationen  i  Amerika  under  300  ar  och 

dess  betydelse  for  Amerika  och  Sverige.   Stockholm,  1940. 

I    svenskhetens   tjanst.    Ur   mitt    livs   dagbok.     Stockholm,    1944- 

1948.  4v. 

Sextio  ar,  mitt  livs  dagbok.   Uppsala,  1928. 

Vasabarnens  fran  Amerika  trenne  resor  i  fars  och  mors  land  1924, 


1929,  1933.    Minnen  och  intryck,  sammanstallda  och  tecknade.    Stock- 
holm, 1935. 

29 


Iseborg,  [Johan]  Harry.   En  annan  gor  USA.   Stockholm,  1948. 

Jernbjelke,  Gustaf.   En  smalanning  far  dit  nasan  pekar.   Malmo,  1943. 

Jonsson,  Thorsten.  Sidor  av  Amerika.  Intryck  och  resonemang.  Stock- 
holm, 1946. 

Juhlin,  G.  Episkopala  kyrkans  mission  bland  svenskarne  i  Norra  Amerika. 
Karlstad,  1902. 

[Kahl,  Achatius  Johan].  Broderna  i  Ohio  eller  Nyprotestantiska  kyrkan  i 
Nord-amerikanska  fristaterna.    [Swedenborgianism.]    Lund,  1853. 

Key,  [Carl  Axel]  Helmer.   En  Amerikaresa  1920.   Stockholm,  1920. 

Kisch,  E.  E.  Har  aran  presentera:  Paradiset  Amerika.  Stockholm,  1930. 

Kjellberg,  Isidor.  Amerika-bok.  Anteckningar  fran  forfattarens  besok  i  Nya 
Verlden  ar  1890 — om  huru  vara  dervarande  vanner  och  anforvandter, 
broder  och  systrar,  ha  det.   Linkoping,  1892. 

Foredrag  om  Amerika,  hallet  i  Stockholm  den  18  febr.  1883.  Stock- 
holm, 1883. 

Kjellen,  [Johan]  Rudolf.  Sangare-  och  turistfarder.  Stockholm,  1908. 
Kleen,  Emil  A.   G.    Stroftag  och  irrfarder  hos   min  van  Yankee  Doodle. 

Stockholm,  1902-1903.   2v. 
Kletkes,  H.    Skildringar  fran  Amerika,  hemtade  ur  beromda  resebeskrif- 

ningar.   Stockholm,  1860-1861. 
Klingner,  Gottfrid.    Bland  Svenskar  pa  andra  sidan  Atlanten.    Reseminnen 

fran  Amerika.   [Goteborg,  1928]. 
Klinkowstrom,  Axel  Leonhard.    Brev  om   de   Forenta   Staterna   fbrfattade 

under  en  resa  till  Amerika  aren  1818,  1819,  1820.    Stockholm,  1824.    2v. 

(Translated  by  Franklin  Scott  under  the  title  of  Baron  Klinkow Strom's 

America.    Evanston,  1953) 
Koch,  G.  H.  von.    Emigranternas  land.    Studier  i  amerikanskt  samhallslif. 

Stockholm,  1910. 

Rusdrycksforbud.     Studier   av   amerikansk   nykterhetsrorelse    och 

rusdryckslagstiftning  foretagna  under  resor  i  Nord-Amerika  pa  uppdrag 
av  svenska  nykterhetssallskapens  samarbetskommitte.    Stockholm,  1910. 

Landelius,  Otto  Rob.    Nerkingar  som  borgare  och  aventyrare  i  frammande 

land.  Goteborg,  1926. 
Larson,  Oscar  W.   I  framlingsland;  skisser  och  berattelser  ur  emigrantlivet. 

Chicago,  n.d. 
Larsson,  Adolf.  En  dalkarl  for  till  USA.   Skildring  fran  en  vistelse  i  U.  S.  A. 

Vetlanda,  1934. 
Larsson,  Johan  Leonard.   Pa  livets  arena.   Resor  och  aventyr  i  fyra  varlds- 

delar.   Atta  ar  som  palsjagare  bland  Klippiga  Bergen,  genom  Nya  Zea- 
land och  i  Australien.  Ostersund,  1932. 
Larsson,  Karl.    Pa  andra  sidan  Atlanten  i  Sveriges  och  Fralsningsarmens 

tjanst.   Stockholm,  1946. 
Lenk,  Margareta.   Femton  ar  i  Amerika.   Stockholm,  1913. 
Lewenhaupt,  C.  A.  C.   Med  "Reddy"  fran  Malmo  till  Memphis.   Stockholm, 

1907. 
Lindberg,  Fr.   Ett  besok  i  Amerika.   Uppsala,  1911. 

30 


Lindblom,  Ernst.  Svenska  teaterminnen  fran  Chicago;  anteckningar  och 
anekdoter.   Stockholm,  1916. 

Lindgren,  Ida.  Ida  Lindgrens  f.  Nibelius,  bref  fran  nybyggarhemmet  i  Kan- 
sas 1870-1881.  Malmo,  1911. 

Lindhagen,  Carl.  Pa  vikingastrat  i  Vasterled;  en  Amerikaresa.  Stockholm, 
1926. 

Lindholm,  Walter.  Bland  svenskar  och  andra  i  Amerika.  Intryck  och  stam- 
ningar.  Ekenas,  1927. 

Lindorm,  Erik.  Fran  Delaware  till  Garbo.  En  bokfilm  till  Delaware jubileet, 
1938.  Stockholm,  1937. 

Lindqvist,  Marta.  Hos  filmstjarnor  i  U.  S.  A.;  snapshots  fran  New  York  och 
Hollywood.   Stockholm,  1924. 

Lindvall,  Axel  E[dvard].  Minnen  fran  en  fard  genom  Amerika.  Karlskorna, 
1890. 

Ljunggren,  Gustaf.  Minnen  och  intryck  fran  min  Amerika-resa  1938.  Skara, 
1938. 

Lowegren,  [Anders]  Gunnar.  Vad  jag  sett  och  hort  i  Amerika.  Ga  vi  emot 
en  ny  civilisationen,  en  skyskrapecivilisation?    Lund,  1931. 

Lundstrom,  [Karl  Johan]  Vilh[elm].   Allsvenska  linier.    Goteborg,  1930. 

Svenska  spanor.   Goteborg,  1910-1913.  2v. 

Lysander,  [Christian]  Albert.  Pa  studiefard  i  Amerika.  Malmo,  1909. 

M.  N.    En  svenska  i  Amerika.    Erfarenhet  och  hugkomst  ifran  sex  ar  i  de 

Forenade  Staterna  af  M.  N.   Stockholm,  1860. 
Mangard,  Carl.    Svenska  oden  i  Amerika.    En  resa  fran  Atlanten  till  Stilla 

havet.  Uppsala,  1939. 
Marshall,  W.  G.    Genom  Amerika  eller  nio  manader  i  Forenta   Staterna. 

Stockholm,  1882. 
Molander,  Oskar  Mauritz  Ferdinand.    Minnen  fran  Nordamerika.    Goteborg 

and  Helsingborg,  1905-1911.    2v. 
Molin,  Adrian.   Amerikaessayer.    Stockholm,  1930. 

Hur  svenskamerikanerna  bo.    Nigra  iakttagelser  och  reflektioner. 

Stockholm,  1912. 

Munsterhjelm,  Erik.  Som  vagabond  till  Kalifornien.  Utvandrarliv  och  hund- 
liv  i  Amerika.    Stockholm,  1945. 

Myrdal,  Alva,  and  [Karl]  Gunnar  Myrdal.  Kontakt  med  Amerika.  Stock- 
holm, 1941. 

Nerman,  Ture.  I  vilda  vastern.  En  Amerikatripp  i  varldskrigstid.  Stock- 
holm, 1935. 

Arbetarsangaren  Joe  Hill,  mordare  eller  martyr.  Stockholm,  1951. 

Nilsson,  E.  G.  Pa  Amerikafard.  Anteckningar  fran  en  resa.  Kristinehamn, 
1899. 

Nilsson,  Karl  Henning  Martin.  Baron  och  andra  berattelser.  Svenskt  och 
Amerika -svenskt  tecknat  och  berattat   Stockholm,  1934. 

Nilsson,  O.  Skildring  af  min  vistelse  i  Minnesota  i  Amerika.  Venersborg, 
1881. 

31 


Nilsson,  Selma.  Kort  skildring  av  min  resa  till  U.  S.  A.  och  varldsutstall- 
ningen  sommaren  1939.   Kalmar,  1940. 

Nisbeth,  Hugo.  Tva  ar  i  Amerika  (1872-1874).  Reseskildringar.  Stock- 
holm, 1874. 

fNorberg,  Per  Gosta].  En  brygga  ofver  hafvet.  Tankar  och  iakttagelser  om 
Amerikas  svenskar  och  vart  forhallande  till  dem.  Samlade  under  2:e 
resor  i  store  andens  rike  af  Peter  Norden.   Goteborg,  1909. 

Svenskarnas  Amerika  och  Amerikas  svenskar.  Stockholm,  1911. 

Nordenskiold,  G.  Fran  fjerran  vastern.  Minnen  fran  Amerika.  Stockholm, 
1892. 

Nordin,  Vilhelm.  Ur  en  emigrants  anteckningsbok.  Nagra  sanningar  om 
Amerika.   Stockholm,  1902. 

Nordstrom,  Ester  Blenda.  Amerikanskt.  Som  emigrant  till  Amerika.  Stock- 
holm, 1923. 

Nordstrom -Bonnier,  Tora.  Just  for  fun.  Stockholm,  1946. 

Resa  kring  en  resa.   I  Fredrika  Bremers  fotspar.    Stockholm,  1950. 

Norlin,  Nils.  Svenska  tag  i  Amerika.  En  pionjars  aventyrliga  liv.  Stock- 
holm, 1930. 

Norstrom,  Carl  Edward.  Studieresa  till  John  Ericssons  Amerika  1848.  Stock- 
holm, 1937. 

Nyberg,  Sigfrid.  Svenskarne  i  Minnesota.  En  episod  ur  amerikanska  in- 
bordeskriget  1862-1863.   Goteborg,  1863. 

Nyblom,  Erik.  Omkring  golfstrommen.  Skizzer  fran  Nordamerika  och 
Vastindien.    Goteborg,  1919. 

Nyren,  G.  Pa  nya  vagar  och  gamla  stigar.  Minnen  och  intryck  fran  Amer- 
ika och  Kina  under  inspektionsresan  1919-1920.   Stockholm,  1900. 

[Nyvall,  C.  J.].  Reseminnen  fran  Amerika  af  C.  J.  N.  Kristinehamn,  1876. 

Olofsson,  O.   Minnen  och  intryck  fran  en  Amerikaresa.   Kristinehamn,  1912. 

Pa  fredlig  vikingafard.   Svenska  K.  F.  U.  M.  korens  sangarfard  till  Amerika. 

1906.  Stockholm,  1907. 
Palander,  F.    Skizzer  fran  Nord-Amerika  och  Vest-Indien.    Tecknade  under 

fregatten  "Vanadis"  resa  aren  1864-1865.   Stockholm,  1866. 
Pallin,  Stig.  En  stockholmsgrabb  pa  luffen  i  U.  S.  A.  Stockholm,  1925. 
Palm,  August.   Ogonblicksbilder  fran  en  tripp  till  Amerika.   Stockholm,  1901. 
Persson-Koij,    Per.     Genom    Amerikas    Forenta    Stater.     Reseskildringar. 

Falun,  1923. 
Peters,  H.  A.    [Boissy  Tancred,  pseud.].    Svenska  nationaliteten  i  Forenta 

Staterna,   deras  sociala   och  kyrkeliga   forhallande,   hemlif  och   ekono- 

miska  stallning.   Goteborg,  1882. 
Pethrus,  Lewi.   Vasterut.   En  resenars  erfarenheter.    Stockholm,  1937. 
Polenz,  Wilhelm  von.   Framtidens  land.   Stockholm,  1905. 
Ragman,  Hj.    Det  stora  landet  i  vaster.    Glim  tar  fran   natur  och  folkliv  i 

Amerikas  Forenta  Stater.    Stockholm,  1931. 
Rogberg,  [Carl  Georg]  Martin.  Folj  med  till  framtidslandet.  Stockholm,  1945. 
Rosen,  Maud  von.   Vi  titta  pa  Amerika.   Stockholm,  1933. 

32 


Rubenson,  Mauritz.  Skildringar  fran  Amerika  och  England  i  bref  under 
hosten  1867.  Stockholm,  1868. 

Rydqvist,  Oscar.  En  handfull  amerikanskt.  En  journalists  strovtag.  Stock- 
holm, 1933. 

Sandgren,  T.  E.  Nagra  utflykter  i  Kalifornien.  Stockholm,  1865. 

Scheele,  K.  H.  Gez[elius]  von.  Hemlandstoner.  En  halsning  fran  moder 
Svea  till  dotterkyrkan  i  Amerika.   Stockholm,  1894-95.   2v. 

Seabrook,  William.  Svenskar  och  andra  utlanningar  i  Amerika.  Stockholm, 
1939. 

Sellman,  J.   Resan  ofver  Atlanten.    Iakttagelser  och  anteckningar.    Helsing- 

borg,  1894. 
Siljestrom,  P.  A.    The  educational  institutions  of  the  United  States,  their 

character  and   organizations.    Tr.  from  Swedish   by  Friderica   Rowan. 

London,  1853. 

Resa  i  Forenta  Staterna.   Stockholm,  1852-1853.   2v. 

Soderblom,  Anna.   En  Amerikabok.   Stockholm,  1925. 

Soderblom,  Nathan.    Fran  Uppsala  till  Rock  Island.    En  predikofard  i  Nya 

Varlden.  Stockholm,  1924. 
Stadling,  Jonas.  Genom  den  stora  vestern.  Reseskildringar.  Stockholm,  1883. 

Hvad  jag  horde  och  sag  i  mormonernas  land.   Stockholm,  1884. 

Stomberg,  Andrew  A.    Den  svenska  folkstammen  i  Amerika.    Nagra  syn- 

punkter.  Stockholm,  1928. 

Strahle,  Bo.  New  York — metropolis.  En  resa  till  New  York.  Stockholm, 
1939. 

Sundbeck,  Carl.  Svensk-Amerika  lefve!  Nagra  tal  hallna  i  Amerika.  Stock- 
holm, 1904. 

Svensk-amerikanerna,   deras   materiella   och  andliga   strafvanden. 

Anteckningar   fran   en   resa   i   Amerika,    foretagen   med    understood   af 
svenska  Staten.  Rock  Island,  1904. 

Svenskar  vilsna  i  fjarran  Vestern  och  sokta  af  de  sina  i  Sverige. 


Swedes  lost  in  America  and  sought  after  .  .  .   Boras,  1901. 

Svenskarna  i  Amerika,  deras  land,   antal  och  kolonier.    En  kort 

ofversikt  till  tjanst  for  emigranter  och  for  vara  svensk-amerikanska 
kolonier  intresserade.   Stockholmv  1900. 

Svenskarne  i  forskingringen.  Statistiska  och  geografiska  notiser  om 


svenska  kolonier  i  .  .  .  Forenta  Staterna  .  .  .   Boras,  1911. 
Svenska    ungdomens    Amerika-fard    1927.    Meddelanden    fran    bestyrelsen. 
(Red.  o.  ansv.  utg.  Axel  E.  F.  Fjellander.)    Landskrona,  1926-1927. 

Swahn,  Waldemar.  Med  de  blagula  fargerna  over  Atlanten  Minnen  och  in- 
tryck  fran  "Stockholms"  forsta  Amerikafard.    Stockholm,  1916. 

Swanson,  Joseph.  Med  Guds  hjalp;  verklighetsskildringar  fran  Svensk- 
Amerika.   Stockholm,  1932. 

Svensk-Amerikansk  Olla   podrida.    Humoresker  fran  vara   dagars 

Svensk-Amerika.  Hvetlanda,  1929. 

Swenne,  Eric.  U.  S.  A.  och  kronprinsparet.  Minnen  och  narbilder.  Stock- 
holm, 1926. 

33 


Thornberg,  E.  H.   Amerikanska  samhallsproblem.    Stockholm,  1912. 

Lefnadsstandard  och  sparkraft  med  sarskild  hansyn  till  den  svenska 

befolkningen  i  Chicago.  Stockholm,  1915. 

Sverige  i  Amerika.    Amerika  i  Sverige.    Folkvandring  och  folk- 


vackelse.  Stockholm,  1938. 

Thulin,  Joe.  De  vara  i  Vastern.   Tre  manader  i  studier  och  tjanst  i  svensk- 
amerikanernas  varld.  Uppsala,  1924. 

Thunstrom,  C.   Reseminnen  fran  Amerika  och  Vestindien.   Stockholm,  1896. 

Tollen,  C.  A.    [Ninian  Waerner,  pseud.].   Mina  hundar  i  Amerika,  humoris- 
tiska  berattelser.  Stockholm,  1900. 

Thyreen,  G.    Skall  jag  resa  till  Amerika?    Kortfattad  skildring  af  Forenta 
Staterna  vid  20:  de  arhundradets  borjan.    Stockholm,  1911. 

Unonius,  Gustaf  S.   Bihang  till  "Minnen  fran  en  sjuttonarig  vistelse  i  Nord- 
vestra  Amerika."  Stockholm,  1896. 

Minnen  fran  en  sjuttonarig  vistelse  i  Nordvestra  Amerika.  Uppsala, 

1861-1862.  2v. 

Mormonism,  dess  upprinnelse,  utveckling  och  bekannelse.    Stock- 


holm, 1883. 

A  Pioneer  in  Northwest  America  1841-1858.   The  Memoirs  of  Gustaf 


Unonius.    Translated  from  the  Swedish  by  Jonas  Oscar  Backlund  and 
edited  by  Nils  William  Olsson.    Minneapolis,  1950. 

Vestander,  A.  Bland  svenskar  i  Kansas.  Reseminnen.   Solvesborg,  1925. 

Viksten,  Albert.   Guds  eget  land.  Stockholm,  1938. 

Vilda  vagar  vasterut.   Stockholm,  1938. 

Wachtmeister,  H.    Turistskizzer  fran  den  andra  sidan  Atlanten.    Stockholm, 
1901. 

Waerner,  Ninian.    [Tollen,  C.  A.].    Mina  hundar  i  Amerika,  humoristiska 
berattelser.   Stockholm,  1900. 

Waldenstrom,  P.    Genom   Canada.    Reseskildringar  fran  1904.    Stockholm, 
1905. 

Genom  Norra  Amerikas  Forenta  Stater.   Reseskildringar.    Chicago, 

1890. 

Nya  farder  i  Amerikas  Forenta  Stater.    Stockholm,  1902. 


Warberg,  A.  Skizzer  fran  Nord-amerikanska  kriget  1861-1865.  Bref  och 
anteckningar  under  fyraarig  vistelse  i  Forenta  Staterna  af  en  i  detta 
krig  deltagande  svensk  officer.   Stockholm,  1867-1871.   2v. 

Wendt,  G.  von.  Vart  svenskfolk  i  Amerika.  Minnen  och  intryck  fran  en  resa 
i  Forenta  Staterna  1921.   Vasa  [Finland],  [1921]. 

Intryck  fran  en  resa  i  Forenta  Staterna.   Vasa,  1922. 

Wennstrom,  J.  E.   Strodda  anteckningar  om  Florida.    Uppsala,  1874. 

Widen,  [Karl]  Albin.   Svenskar  som  erovrat  Amerika.   Stockholm,  1937. 

Wieselgren,  Harald.    Ofver  Atlanten.   Resebref.   Stockholm,  1876. 

Wilhelm,  Prins.   Amerika  fran  estraden.   Stockholm,  1928. 

Willandt,  Aug.   Bland  emigranter  och  andra  fardeman.   Huskvarna,  1935. 

34 


Wilson,  Charles.    Nagra  upplysande  underrattelser  rorande  Erik  Jansenska 

kolonien  i  Norra  Amerika.  Samt  en  sarskild  resebeskrifning.   Sundsvall, 

1854. 
Wiren,  Gosta.    Pa  jakt  efter  jobb  i  U.  S.  A.    Mina  vagabondar  i  Amerika. 

Stockholm,  1933. 
[Wrangel,  F.  U.].    Fran  Washingtons  salonger  och  hvardagslif.    Stockholm, 

1908. 

Stroftag  i  New  York  och  annorstades  i  U.  S.  A.   Stockholm,  1907. 

Wulff,  C.  A.  Berattelse  om  en  resa  till  Amerika  ar  1869.  Stockholm,  1891. 
Wyckoff,  Walter  A.  Bland  arbetare  i  Amerika.  Uppsala,  1906-1907.  2v. 


35 


Chapter  Four 


EMIGRANT  GUIDE  BOCKS 

The  emigrant  guide  books  are  more  easily  defined  than  the  America 
books.  These  were  essentially  those  books  which  sought  to  guide  the  emi- 
grant leaving  Sweden  on  his  journey  to  America.  Some  were  written  with 
the  best  of  motives.  The  largest  number  advertised  tickets  across  the  ocean 
or  land  for  sale  somewhere  in  America  where  the  soil  and  the  climate 
were  always  the  best.  Often  the  guides  provided  the  emigrants  with  essen- 
tial information  for  their  journey.  This  included  advice  to  read  carefully 
the  contract  for  passage  across  the  ocean,  to  be  sober  and  patient,  to  work 
diligently,  never  to  leave  packages  without  proper  care  especially  after  "the 
Irish"  have  been  taken  on  board,  to  beware  of  runners;  and  they  con- 
tained information  as  to  where  to  settle  for  those  with  or  without  skills, 
what  to  bring  along,  the  cash  necessary,  and  similar  instructions. 

The  largest  number  of  guides  were  published  by  steamship  companies 
and  railroad  and  land  companies.  Many  of  these  are  uncatalogued  at  the 
Royal  Library,  and  these  are  only  sampled  in  this  bibliography.  Some  of 
the  guides  are  little  more  than  leaflets,  flysheets  or  posters  while  others 
are  more  pretentious  and  contain  a  lengthy  text  and  many  illustrations. 
The  steamship  companies  stressed  descriptive  material  pertaining  to  the  ac- 
commodations on  ships,  while  the  land  companies  sought  in  glowing  terms 
to  describe  the  nature  of  the  soil  and  climate.  A  number  of  states  also 
competed  in  the  recruiting  of  immigrants. 

Sometimes  it  appears  as  if  the  agent  of  the  land  company,  railroad  or 
steamship  company  enjoyed  considerable  freedom.  Attacks  were  made  upon 
competitors,  whose  honesty  and  integrity  were  questioned  while  the  reli- 
ability of  the  attacker  was  frequently  supported  by  impressive  seals,  bank 
deposits  or  testimonials.  The  people  were  not  prepared  to  judge  critically 
either  America  books  or  guides.  The  average  person  had  great  faith  in 
any  printed  word. 

The  amazing  thing  was  neither  the  credulity  of  emigrants-to-be  nor  the 
mercenary  interests  of  companies  and  agents  competing  with  one  another, 
but  the  magnetic  power  of  America.  It  was  the  idea  of  America  as  a  land 
of  opportunity  rather  than  skillful  propaganda  by  immigrant  agents  that 
created  an  interest  in  America.  When  once  the  idea  to  emigrate  was  born, 
then  the  guides  were  studied  with  a  purpose,  and  large  scale  migration 
from  Sweden  to  America  followed. 

This  large  emigration  from  Sweden  led  to  efforts  not  only  by  states  but 
also  by  church  groups  to  channel  the  movement.  The  Augustana  Synod 
sought  to  call  the  attention  of  emigrants  as  they  left  Sweden,  as  well  as  of 
the  immigrants  upon  their  arrival  in  America,  to  communities  where  the 
synod  had  organized  congregations. 

Martha  Angstrom  provides  an  excellent  description  of  many  of  the  guides 
in  "Swedish  Emigrant  Guide  Books  of  the  Early  1850V'  in  the  Yearbook  of 

36 


the  American  Swedish  Historical  Foundation  for  1947.  Roy  Swanson's  "Some 
Swedish  Emigrant  Guide  Books  of  the  Second  Half  of  the  Nineteenth  Cen- 
tury" in  the  Yearbook  of  the  Swedish  Historical  Society  of  America  for 
1926  deserves  attention  as  does,  of  course,  the  long  list  of  guides  mentioned 
by  Stephenson  in  his  Religious  Aspects  of  Swedish  Immigration. 


REFERENCES 

Ahlberg,  P.  A.  Helsningsord  till  emigranter.   Orebro,  1883. 

American-Linien  f.d.  Inmanlinien.  Via  Southhampton-New  York.  Goteborg, 
1894. 

Amerika-boken.  Den  nya  Amerika-boken  for  svenska  utvandrare  .  .  . 
Stockholm,  1869. 

Anchor  Linien.   Stockholm,  1911. 

[Arfwedson,  C.  D.].  Nagra  fa  ord  till  dem,  som  nasta  ar  amna  fran  Sverige 
och  Norrige  utflytta  till  Forenta  Staterna,  af  en  opartisk  landsman. 
Stockholm,  1842. 

Arsutsigterna  i  Red  River-Dalen.  n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Atchison,  Topeka  och  Santa  Fe  jernvags-kompani,  Kansas,  erbjuder  till 
salu  pa  11  ars  kredit  och  mot  7%  ranta  tre  millioner  acres  land.  Gote- 
borg, 1873. 

[ ]  De  naturliga  rikedomskallornas  nuvarande  och  framtida  utveck- 

ling  i  Kansas  .  .  .  landbevillningen  till  Atchison,  Topeka  &  Santa  Fe  jern- 
vagsbolag.  Tva  milHoner  acres  af  det  besta  land,  som  solen  skiner  pa 
och  i  det  sundaste  klimat.  Laga  priser!   Lang  kredit.  Chicago,  [1882]. 

Baltimore  och  Ohio  jernbanan  fran  Baltimore  till  alia  orter  i  det  vestra, 
nordvestra  och  sodra  Amerika,  uppfodrad  pa  vaf  och  med  svensk  text 
pa  baksidan,  med  upplysningar  for  emigranter  o.  kolonister.  Chicago, 
[1890?]. 

Bergstrom,  0[lof].  Tankar  ofver  emigrationen  samt  rad  till  utvandrare. 
Stockholm,  1882. 

Beskrifning  ofver  staten  Minnesota  ar  1885;  dess  naturliga  hjelpkallor  med 
hansyn  till  akerbruk,  fabriksdrift  och  handel.  Tillokta  med  en  kort 
framstallning  af  dess  historia,  utveckling  och  narvarande  standpunkt. 
St.  Paul,  1885. 

Bockman,  P.  W.   Utdrag  ur  ett  bref  fran  Norra  Amerika.   Soderhamn,  1846. 

Bojesen,  A.  T.  Till  Amerika!  Utforlig  och  palitlig  wagledning  och  hjalp- 
reda  for  utwandrare,  innefattande  en  lattfattlig  framstallning  om  sta- 
terna Minnesotah,  [sic]  Iowa,  Nebraska,  Kansas,  Missouri,  Texas  och 
Sydstaterna:  akerbruk,  boskapsskotsel,  arbetsfortjenst,  skandinaviska 
nybyggen,  m.  m.;  samt  upplysningar  om  amerikanska  forhallanden, 
grundade  pa  egna  och  andras  mangariga  erfarenheter  och  noggranna 
undersokningar  om,  hwar  och  huru  man  lattast  far  en  sorgfri  utkomst 
i  Amerika.   Helsingborg,  1869. 

Bolin,  Johan.  Beskrifning  ofwer  Nordamerikas  Forenta  Stater,  i  anseende 
till  naturbeskaffenhet,   djur,  wexter,  mineraler,   produkter,  naringsut- 

37 


wagar,  styrelse,  lagskipning,  religionswasende,  underwisningsanstalter, 
krigsmakt,  handel,  kommunikationsmedel,  fattigforsorjning,  skatter  m. 
m.  Med  naturhistoriska  och  andra  underrattelser;  jemte  sarskilda  upp- 
lysningar  och  rad  for  dem,  som  wilja  dit  utflytta.    Waxjo,  1853. 

Borin,  S.  G.  Agentur  for  Nordtyska  Lloyd  i  Bremen.  Cirkular  for  emi- 
granter.   Stockholm,  1883. 

Brommes,  Traugott.  Handbok  for  emigranter  af  alia  klasser  och  stand  till 
Forenta  Staterna  i  Nord-Amerika  .  .  .  1844. 

Brooks,  J.  T.   California  .  .  .   1849. 

Bryant,  Edwin.  Californien,  en  skildring  af  landet,  dess  klimat  och  guld- 
minor.   Stockholm,  1850. 

Burg,  S.  T.  A.  Upplysningar  for  utwandrare  till  Amerika.  Utgifwen  pa 
grund  af  15  ars  erfarenhet  med  en  karta  ofwer  Nord-Amerika.  Stock- 
holm, 1860. 

Carlsson,  A.  O.  Kapten.    Bref  fran  sodra  Californien.    Orebro,  1890. 

Carlsson,  Erl[and].  Nagra  rad  och  underrattelser  for  utwandrare  till  Amer- 
ikas  Forenta  Stater.  Waxjo,  1854.  2d  ed.  Carlshamn,  1854,  with  the  longer 
title  Tillforlitliga  rad  och  underrattelser  for  utwandrare  till  Amerika, 
nemligen:  I.  Rad  och  underrattelser.  II.  Upplysningar  om  mynt,  matt, 
wigt,  prowiantering  och  kastnader  for  resan  m.  m.  III.  Utdrag  af  bref 
fran  i  Amerika  wistande  svenskar.   IV.  Ordregister. 

Carlsson,  F.  O.  Vagledning  for  emigranter  fran  Sverige  till  Amerika.  Stock- 
holm, 1881. 

Cirkular  ofver  land  till  salu  i  Nord-Amerikanska  staten  Florida.  Cirkular 
till  herrar  kapitalister  samt  till  emigranter  som  utvandra  med  fast 
foresats  att  pa  kortaste  tid  skapa  sig  eget  hem  och  betryggad  framtid. 
Stockholm,  [1883]. 

Cronsioe,  S.  Upplysningar  fran  och  om  Nord  Amerikanska  Forenta  Staterna. 
Goteborg,  1855. 

[Dannstrom,  Johan  Isidor].  Fran  Sverige  till  Amerika.  Rad  och  upplys- 
ningar for  landsman  som  amna  utflytta  till  den  nya  verlden;  dels  be- 
arbetade  fran  tyskan,  dels  efter  egna  iakttagelser  samlade  under  en  resa 
i  Norra  Amerika  aren  1853-1854.   Stockholm,  1855. 

Ek,  G.  Th.   Rad  at  emigranter.   Kalmar,  1891. 

Ekendahl,  C.  Texas,  geografisk,  politisk  och  national-ekonomisk  beskrifning 
jemte  karta.  Efter  nyaste  kallor  och  officiella  uppgifter.  Stockholm, 
1880. 

Emigrant-befordring  genom  The  National  Steam  Ship  Company  Limited. 
Goteborg,  1872. 

Ericson,  E.  Tanker  du  emigrera?  Rad  och  upplysningar  for  utvandrare. 
Karlskoga,  1924. 

Esbjorn,  Lars  Paul.  Walkomsthalsning  till  den  swenska,  norska  och  danska 
emigranten.    New  York,  1851. 

Ferlbv,  Waldfemar]  J6rg[en].  Syd-Carolina.  Ett  hem  for  den  driftige  ut- 
vandraren.   Goteborg,  1867. 

38 


Fick-handbok  ofver  Nordamerikas  Forenta  Stater  med  geografiska  beskrif- 
ningar  samt  uppgifter  om  jordbruk,  handel  och  industri  jemte  rad  och 
upplysningar  sarskilt  for  emigranter  .  .  .  af  R — f.  Vesteras,  1890. 

Fliigel,  C.  A.  Den  uppriktige  engelsmannen,  eller  konsten  att  utan  larare 
pa  kort  tid  lara  riktigt  lasa,  skrifva  och  tala  engelska  spraket.  [For  ut- 
vandrare  till  Amerika.]   Stockholm,  1912. 

Fordelarna  for  jordbrukare  i  Colorado.  Jordbruk  med  irrigation  eller  vatt- 
ning.   [St.  Louis?]    [1883?]. 

Foreningen  till  svenska  emigranters  skydd  i  Amerika  jemte  en  saker  under- 
rattelse  om  staten  Tennessee,  och  de  manga  fordelar  der  gifwas,  som 
icke  kunna  erhallas  i  de  norra  staterna.  Norrkop,  1860. 

Framtidsplaner  ...  ett  vanligt  rad  till  landsman  som  vilja  soka  forbattra 
sin  ekonomiska  stallning.   Chicago,  n.d. 

Franklin,  T.  B.  Minnesota  sasom  hem  for  emigranter.  Utgifven  pa  statens 
bekostnad.  Red  Wing,  1869. 

G  .  .  .  Handbok  for  emigranter  of  alia  klasser  och  stand  till  Forenta  Sta- 
terna; Nord-Amerika.  Utarbetad  .  .  .  efter  andra  upplagan  af  T.  Brom- 
ines.  "Reise-handbuch"  .  .  .  Jonkoping,  1844. 

Golden  Northwest.  St.  Paul,  1880. 

[Gran,  C.  H.].  Plan  for  Dr.  C.  H.  Gran's  skandinaviska  Kansas -koloni,  juli 
1857.    Bihang  till  Hemlandet,  Det  gamla  och  det  nya.   Galesburg,  1857. 

Grimberg,  Carl.  Svensk-amerikansk  kokbok  samt  radgifvare  for  svenskt 
tjanstefolk.  New  York,  1882. 

[Haight,  Nicholas],  Ett  nytt  Kalifornien  eller  Cherokeefalten  pa  Walden's 
Ridge  i  Ostra  Tennessee  uti  Nordamerika.   Stockholm,  1849. 

Handbok  for  Union  Pacific  jernvagsland  12.000.000  acres  det  basta  aker- 
bruks-,  gras-  och  mineral-land  i  staten  Nebraska  och  territorierna 
Colorado,  Wyoming  och  Utah  .  .  .  Omaha,  1874. 

Handbok  for  utvandrare  till  Amerika.  Innehallande  de  mest  tillforlitliga 
underrattelser  om  Amerika  och  dess  forhallanden.  Ugifven  af  Svenska 
emigrant  foreningen  i  Chicago,  111.  Goteborg,  1869.  [Outside  title]. 
Svenska  emigrant -f or eningens  i  Chicago  handbok  for  utvandrare  till 
Norra  Amerika.  Goteborg,  1869.   [Inside  title] . 

Innehallande  rad  och  anvisningar  jemte  geografiska  beskrifningar 

samt  uppgifter  rorande  landtbruk,  handel  och  industri  m.  m.  Stockholm, 
1889.    (A  summary  of  H.  Ott's  Fiirhrer  nach  Amerika.) 

Handbok  ofver  Union  Pacific -jernvagens  land.  12.000.000  acres.  3.000.000 
acres  i  mellersta  och  ostra  Nebraska  aro  nu  till  salu  .  .  .   Chicago,  1878. 

Hasselquist,  T.  N.   Nytt  utflyttningsforslag;  ett  ord  till  emigranter  .  .  .  Rock 

Island,  1881. 
Ho!  For  the  middle  region  of  Western  Iowa.  Hem  nara  hemmet.   Iowa  jern- 

vags-land-kompani  erbjuder  1.500.000  acres  .  .  .  n.p.,  n.d.    [1874?] 

Hook,  J.  H.    Rad  och  upplysningar  for  personer  som  amna  utvandra  till 

Forenta  Staterna  och  Kanada.   Halmstad,  1888. 
Horner,   H.    Emigranten.     Nyaste    handbok   for   utvandrare.     Innehallande 

forenklad  engelsk  uttals-  och  spraklara;  talofningar  och  bifogadt  uttal 

39 


samt  ordforrad;  rad  och  anvisningar  for  utvandrare  till  Amerika,  fore, 
under  och  efter  resan,  samt  Amerikas  mynt,  matt  och  vigt.  Efter  till— 
forlitliga  kallor.   Stockholm,  1868. 

Iowa  and  Nebraska  farmer.  Lincoln,  1876. 

Iowa;  hemmet  for  emigranter.  En  afhandling  om  Iowas  hjelpkallor,  hvilken 
gifver  nyttiga  upplysningar  angaende  staten,  till  fordel  for  emigranter 
och  andra.  Utgifven  af  Iowas  direktion  for  emigrationen.   Chicago,  1870. 

Jeanson,  R  E.  Kapten.    Amerika.    Rad  till  emigranter.    Goteborg,  1870. 

Jungberg,  C  G.  Utvandrarens  tolk.  Praktisk  larobok  i  engelska  spraket,  in- 
nehallande: En  lattfattlig  handledning  i  sprakets  uttal  jemte  ordforrad 
och  samtalsofningar  med  bifogad  uttalsbeteckning.  Rad  och  upplysnin- 
gar for  utvandrare.  Jemforelse  mellan  svenska  och  amerikanska  mynt, 
matt,  mil  och  vigt.  Svenska  utvandrarelagen.  Stockholm,  five  ed.  1869- 
1882. 

Kansas  Pacific  homestead.   Salina,  Kansas,  1878-1879. 

Kathmann,  J.  C.   Upplysningar  for  emigranter  inuti  staten  Louisiana.    New 

Orleans.  Stockholm,  1868. 
Kort  wagledning  och  hjelpreda  for  emigranter  fran  Swerige  till  Amerika 

innehallande  palitliga  upplysningar  om  Forenta  Staterna  deras  rika  jord, 

hoga  afloningar  och  stora  fordelar  for  Swenska  utvandrare.    Goteborg, 

1872. 
Lagre  Californien.    Halfon  nu  oppnad  for  kolonister:    Tierra  Perfecta  eller 

Missions -fadernas  "Fullkomliga  land."    Den  fruktbara  landstracka  som 

eges   och   utbjudes   till   forsaljning    af   the    International    Company    of 

Mexico.    [New  York,  1887?]. 
Larsson,   August.     Kort  historisk    ofwer    samfardseln  mellan    Europa    och 

Amerika   samt   beskrifning   ofwer   Inman-liniens    kongl.    engelska    och 

amerikanska  postangare  och  bolagets  werksamhet  fran   1850  till  1892 

jamte  underrattelser  om  resan  till  Amerika.    Goteborg,  1892. 
[Lindbergh,  Mans].    Staten  Minnesota  i  Nord  Amerika.    Dess  innebyggare, 

klimat  och  beskaffenhet.   Kopenhamn,  1868. 
Marcus,  L.    Forslag  till  reglemente  for  upprattandet  af  en  coloni  i  staten 

Californien  och  de  Forenade  Nord -Amerikanska  Staterna.    Stockholm, 

1849. 

Marsh,  W.  Tillfbrlitlig  wagvisare  for  swenska  utwandrare  till  Forenta  Sta- 
terna i  Nordamerika.  Bearbetning  for  swenska  forhallanden.  Stockholm, 
three  ed.  1867-1869. 

[Maryland.  Bureau  of  Immigration].  For  utvandrare  till  Amerika.  Malmo, 
1902. 

Mattson,  Hans.  Den  nya  svenska  kolonien  i  Minnesota,  Nord-Amerika.  Goda 
land  for  emigranter  pa  de  billigaste  vilkor  vid  Lake  Superior  jernbanan. 
Kristianstad,  1872. 

Land  for  emigranter  utat  Lake  Superior  &  Mississippi  jernvagen 

mellan  St.  Paul  och  Duluth  i  staten  Minnesota,  Nordamerika.  St.  Paul, 
1871.   Kristianstad,  1871. 

Minnesota  och  dess  fordelar  for  inwandraren,  innehallande  en  be- 


skrifning ofwer  statens  historia,  dess  geografiska  lage,  regering,  stader, 

40 


floder,  sjoar,  skogar,  klimat,  jordman,  mineraler,  jernbanor,  handel, 
fabrikanter,  mm.  af  intresse  och  wigt  for  dem  som  soker  sitt  hem  i 
Western.   Carlstad,  1867.   Chicago,  1867. 

Nagra  rad  och  anvisningar  for  emigranter  till  Amerika  samt  be- 


skrifning  ofwer  Minnesota,  dess  geografiska  lage,  regering  .  .   .    Jon- 
koping,  1868. 

Minnesota  sasom  hem  for  emigranten.  Utgifven  pa  statens  beskostnad.  Red 
Wing,  1869. 

Moller,  A.  W.  Om  orsakerna  till  utwandringen  fran  Sverige  till  Amerika 
samt  warningar  och  rad  till  blifwande  utwandrare.   Jonkbping,  1871. 

Nagra  rad  till  dem  som  amna  utvandra  till  Amerika.   Goteborg,  1903. 

Nagra  walmenta  rad  och  upplysningar  for  swenska  utwandrare  till  Ameri- 
kanska  Staterna.  Falun.    [Three  ed.,  the  last  two  dated  1868  and  1869]. 

National-Land-Companiet.  Amerikanskt  och  Europeiskt  emigrationsbolag 
.  .  .  Andamal  forsaljning  och  kolonisering  .  .  .   Stockholm,  1869. 

New  Mexico  Stock  and  Agricultural  Association  .  .  .  med  uppgift  att  kolo- 
nisera,  upparbeta  och  brukalandstrackor  i  territorierna  New  Mexico  och 
Colorado  for  boskapsskotsel,  akerbruk  och  grufhandtering.  [Chicago], 
1876. 

Nilsson,  Alex.  Amerika  sadant  det  ar.  Forenta  Staternas  pohtiska  och  so- 
ciala  forhallanden,  sammanstalda  med  Sveriges.   Stockholm,  1871. 

Beskrifning  ofwer  Amerika,  med  serskilt  afseende  pa  den  skandi- 

naviska  emigrationen.   Goteborg,  1872. 

Nilsson,  Olof  A.  Nordamerika.  Geografisk  och  statistisk  handbok  for  Amer- 
ikas  svenskar.  New  York,  1904. 

Nisbeth,  Hugo.  Emigranternas  wan.  Hjelpreda  for  den  swenske  utwand- 
raren  af  hwarje  klass.  Efter  fyra  ars  resor  och  studier  i  Forenta  Sta- 
terna.  Stockholm,  1881.   2d  ed.  enlarged.   Stockholm,  1881. 

Nogle  ord  till  de  skandinaviske  utvandrare  i  Chicago,    n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Nordgren  and  Bergstrom.  Hufvudagentur  for  Bay  State  companiets  land  i 
Nebraska  och  Wyoming.    Chicago,  [1888]. 

Norelius,  E.  and  A.  Rodell.  Helsnings-ord  till  den  svenske  emigranten  af 
Augustana  synodens  missionsstyrelse.  St.  Paul,  1880. 

Den  nya  amerika-boken  for  svenska  utvandrare.    Stockholm,  1869. 

Den  nya  och  sista  kolonien  som  anlagges  af  Herr  Olof  Bergstrom  i  Florida 
blommernas  rike.   Malmo,  1896. 

Nya  Stockholm,  nybildadt  skandinaviskt  nybygge  i  Nord-Amerikanska 
Western.  160  acres  land  fritt  till  hvarje  person,  fyld  18  ar.  Enkoping, 
1886. 

Olsson,  Martin.  Nagra  allmannyttiga  rad  for  utvandrare  till  Amerika.  Gote- 
borg, 1870. 

(ippet  bref  till  fran  Amerika  atervandande  svenskar  med  Amerika-linien 

f.  d.  Inman-Linien.   Goteborg,  1899. 
5ppet  bref  till  fran   Amerika   atervandande   svenskar   med   Inman-linien. 

Goteborg,  1892. 

41 


Orstrom,  O.    Upplysningar  och  rad  for  utvandrare  till  Amerika.    Goteborg, 

1874. 
Oregon  album.  Tvahundra  bilder  illustrerande  staten  Oregons  scenerier  och 

landthushallning.   Portland,  n.  d. 
Oregon.   State  Immigration  Commission.   Dess  landtbruk  och  ofriga  narings- 

grenar  med  sakkunniga  utarbetade  statistiska  uppgifter  med  afseende  pa 

statens  landtbruksforhallanden  m.  m.   Portland,  [1912?]. 
Otts,  H.   Beskrifning   ofver  Amerikas   Forenta   Stater   innehalland   rad  och 

anvisningar.    Stockholm,  1891. 

Handbok  for  utvandrare.   Stockholm,  1889. 

Pehrsson,  Per.  Rad  och  anvisningar  for  utvandrare  till  Amerika.  Gafle,  1912. 

Till  svenska   utvandrare!    Rad   och   anvisningar.    Goteborg,    1924. 

(Introduction  by  Nathan  Soderblom.) 

Prareland  Iowa  och  Minnesota,  Texas  och  Arkansas.   Chicago,  [1885]. 
Praktisk  larobok  i  engelska  spraket  med  fullstandig  uttalsbeteckning.   Wag- 

ledning  for  nybyggare,  inwandrare  och  andra.   Chicago,  1881 
Praktisk  vagledning  for  emigranter  till  Minnesota,  Dakota   och   Montana 

samt  andra  i  nordvest  af  Forenta  Staterna  belagna  delar.  Goteborg,  1882. 
Rad  for  emigranter  fran  Swerige  till  Amerika.  Gefle,  1851. 
Rad  och  anvisningar  for  utvandrare  till  Nordamerikas  Forenta  Stater,  jamte 

en  kort  ofversikt  ofver  deras  geografi  och  historia.    Norrkoping,  1893. 

2d  ed.,  1903. 

Rad  och  upplysningar  for  dem  som  amna  resa  till  Union  Pacific  Railway 
Co.'s  (Stilla  Hafs-banans)  landstrackor  i  staten  Nebraska.  Forenta  Sta- 
terna. Nord-Amerika.   Goteborg,  1882. 

Red  River  Dalen  sasom  de  skandinaviske  redaktorerna  sago  den  pa  deras 
lustresa  i  Juli  1881.  Chicago,  1881. 

Red  River  Valley.   The  land  of  the  golden  grain.   St.  Paul,  1882. 

Roster  fran  Amerika  i  juni  1880.  En  behjartansvard  skildring  af  nigra  i 
Amerika  wistande  sanningsalskande  man  ofwer  tillstandet  derstades, 
och  sarskild  tillegnad  de  Amerikaresande.  Sundsvall,  1880. 

Romander,  A.  Lagre  Californien,  "Tierra  perfecta"  eller  "Det  fullkomliga 
landet."  The  International  Company  of  Mexico.  Dess  fbrhallanden  fram- 
stallda  i  skildringar  under  en  resa  dit  forliden  vinter.   Goteborg,  1888. 

[Rubenson,  Mauritz].  Rad  och  upplysningar  for  utvandrare  till  Amerika, 
framstallda  medelsk  skidring  af  en  resa  fran  Sverige  dit,  foretagen  i 
oktober  1867.  Utdrag  ur  Mauritz  Rubenson's  "Amerika."  Stockholm, 
1869. 

[St.  Paul,  Minneapolis  and  M.  Railroad].  Huru  lander  erhalles.  n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Nio  millioner  acres  af  fritt  land  vid  Devil's  Lake,  Turtle  Mountain 

och  Mouse  River  i  Norra  Dakota,  n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Roster  fran  landet.   Red  River-dalen  och  parkregionen.   n.  p.,  n.  d. 


Sammandrag  af  Inman-liniens  angskeppskompanis  i  Liverpool  werksamhet 
under  de  senast  forflutne  32  aren  1850-1882.  Till  den  swenska  allman- 
hetens  tjenst  utgifwen  af  John  Odell,  generalagent  for  Sverige.  Gote- 
borg, 1882. 

42 


Scandia-Linien.  Direkt  post-och  passagerarebefordran  mellan  Goteborg- 
New  York.   Stockholm,  1893. 

Scandia-Linien.  Upplysningar  for  emigranter  jemte  utdrag  ur  Forenta  Sta- 
ternas  invandringslag.  Kalmar,  1893. 

[Scheele,  Carl  Axel  A.].  Nagra  korta  underrattelser  om  Amerika,  till  upp- 
lysning  och  nytta  for  dem  som  amna  dit  utflytta;  samt  Emigrant  fore- 
ningens  stadgar  och  forslager  for  en  tillamnad  utflyttning  ar  1841.  Med 
en  karta.  Utgifne  af  foreningens  secreterare.   Stockholm,  1841. 

Schroder,  Johan.  Vagvisare  for  emigranter  till  Forenta  Staterna  och  Can- 
ada. Anvisningar  betraffande  resan  dit,  de  olika  staternas  klimat,  jord- 
man  och  ofriga  forhallanden,  meddelanden  fran  talrika  skandinaviska 
nybyggare  m.  m.  Till  tjenst  for  blifvande  utvandrare  bearbetad  efter 
den  for  inhamtande  af  fullt  opartiska  upplysningar  till  dessa  lander  en- 
kom  utreste  Joh.  Schroder.   Stockholm,  1868. 

Schytte,  Theodore.  Vagledning  for  emigration,  en  kort  framstallning  af  ut- 
vandringens  svarigheter  och  fordelar,  jemte  en  skildring  af  de  Skandi- 
naviska koloniernas  pohtiska  och  religiosa  tillstand  i  Nordamerika  med 
ett  bihang  om  de  ar  1847  utvandrade  Erick  Janssons  anhangares  sorg- 
liga  ode.  Stockholm,  1849. 

Seltman,  [Johan  Ulf]  J.  Resan  ofwer  Atlanten.  Iakttagelser  och  anteck- 
ningar.    Helsingborg,  1894.    2d  ed.,  Goteborg,  1895. 

600.000  acres  Chicago  Milwaukee  &  St.  Paul,  Chicago  &  Northwestern  och 
Sioux  City  &  St.  Paul  jernvagsland,  stat  och  skol  land.  Odlade  egen- 
domar  till  salu  genom  A.  Boysen.   Chicago,  111.   Chicago,  [1885  or  1886]. 

Skandinavisk  koloni  i  Iowa.  Land  i  Iowa.  Emmett  och  vestligaste  Kossuth 
Counties,  n.  p.,  n.  d.    [1880?]. 

Skarstedt,  Ernst.  Oregon  och  Washington  .  .  .  En  handbok  for  dem  som 
dnska  kannedom  om  Nordvestkustens  forhallanden.  Portland,  1890. 

Svedelius  och  Nystrom,  J.  F.  Nord-Amerikas  Forenta  Stater.  Uppsala,  1891. 

Svenska  Amerika  linien.  Sammandrag  av  Forenta  Staternas  invandringslag 
av  den  5  februari  1917.   Goteborg,  1917. 

Svenska  Emigrant-Foreningen  i  Chicago  handbok  for  utvandrare  till  Amer- 
ika. Goteborg,  1869. 

Svenska  Kolonien  Thomasville,  Arkansas,  Amerika.  The  Swedish  Colonisa- 
tion Society  of  Arkansas.   Solvesborg,  1892. 

Swalander,  Carl  E.  Tillforlitliga  underrattelser  om  Nord-Amerikas  Forenta 
stater  och  basta  sattet  att  utvandra.  En  iliustrerad  handbok  for  emi- 
granter af  alia  klasser  efter  de  nyaste  och  sakraste  kallor  samt  egna 
ron  sammanfattad.  Goteborg,  1853. 

[Sweder,  A.].  Gif  akt!   Mariestad,  1876. 

Swedesburgh,  California.  Till  svenska  allmanheten.  San  Francisco,  [1893?]. 

Swenska  landtmannens  fristunder.  Med  manga  forklarande  trasnitt.  Stock- 
holm, 1850. 


Swensson,  G.  Amerika-boken.  Ny  och  tillforlitlig  radgifvare  for  emigran- 
ter.  Afhandling  om  Amerikas  rikaste  industri-och  sadesland  samt  bo- 
skapsafvel  och  farafvel.  Stockholm,  1892. 

Till  alia  svenskar  i  Amerika.   Vineland.  Nya  hem  i  Vineland.   n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Till  den  svenske  immigranten.  Rock  Island,  1896. 

Till  kvinliga  emigranter.   Goteborg,  1907. 

Till  utvandrare  till  Norra  Amerikas  Forenta  Stater.  Hvar  skall  jag  ga  i 
kyrkan  i  Amerika?  Evang.  fosterslands-stiftelsens  styrelse.  Stockholm, 
[1886]. 

Tillforlitliga  och  sakra  rad  for  dem  som  skola  resa  till  Amerika,  samt  intyg 
fran  ofwer  200  personer,  om  hwilken  angbatslinie  man  bor  walja  for 
resan  dit.  Goteborg,  1881. 

Union  Pacific  Railway  Co.  Gyllene  bait  landerier  .  .  .  land  i  Thomas,  Logan, 
Wallace,  Sherman,  Gove,  Greeley  och  Wichita  Counties,  Kansas.  [Chi- 
cago, 1887?]. 

[Union  Pacific  Railroad].  5.000.000  acres.  Union-Pacific-banans  vagvisare 
till  farmar  och  hem  i  Kansas  och  Colorado.   Chicago,  [1882?]. 

Upplysningar  ofwer  staten  Kansas  till  dem,  som  utwandra  fran  Swerige  till 
Nordamerika.    [Excerpt  from  Fdderneslandet.]   Halmstad,  1865. 

Utwandra  ar  klogt  nog,  men  hwartill?  Ett  samtal  i  Swerige  1874  emellan 
en  jordbrukare,  em  smed  och  en  resande  fran  Amerika.  Utgifwen  af 
Skandinaviska  Regeringens  Emigrations -departement.   Goteborg,  1874. 

Utvandrare -boken.  En  mycket  intressant  bok  ar  utvandrare -boken.  Om  lif- 
vet  i  och  pa  resan  till  Amerika  samt  till  slut  glasogonormen,  och  hur  ut- 
vandrade,  unga  kvinnor  lockas  och  bortforas  till  usla  nasten,  under 
fagra  loften  om  att  fa  goda  platser.   Stockholm,  1914. 

Vagledning  for  resande  till  Amerika  med  Cunard  linien  grundad  ar  1840 
samt  en  kortfattad  beskrifning  ofver  liniens  uppkomst  .  .  .  Goteborg, 
1901,  1907,  1908,  1911,  1912,  1913. 

Vagvisare  till  Union-Pacific-jernvagens  land.    12.000.000  acres  angs-,  aker- 

bruks-   &  mineraljord,   den   yppersta  i  Amerika   belaget   inom   staten 

Nebraska,    territorierna    Colorado,    Wyoming    och    Utah   till    salu    hos 

Union-Pacific-jernv.-kompaniet.    Sundsvall,  1872. 
Venersborg  Koloni  Clarke  county,  Washington,  n.p.,  [1910]. 
Vyer  ofver  till  salu  varande  land  tillhbrande  Burlington  &  Missouri  River 

jernvagsbolag  i  Iowa  och  Nebraska  uti  Forenta  Staterna,  Nordamerika. 

Goteborg,  1873. 
[Wahlstrom,   Clara  Elisabeth].    Radgifvare  for   unga   kvinnor.    Stockholm, 

1905.  2d  ed.,  1909. 
Wennerstrom,    John.     Amerikanen.     Oumbarlig    hjelpreda    for    utvandrare. 

Stockholm,  1892. 
Wennstrom,  G.  E.  Anteckningar  fran  en  svensk  emigrants  vistelse  i  Amerika 

aren  1871-1872.   Uppsala,  1873. 

Wernell,  [Sven]  A.  Scandialinien  afslbjad.  Nagra  ord  till  de  svenska  emi- 
granterna.    Stockholm,  1893. 

44 


Wilander,  P.  W.  Emigrantens  van  eller  svenskarna  pa  vastra  halfklotet, 
hvad  de  gora  och  saga.  Boken  ar  hopskrifven  af  ett  40-tal  svensk- 
amerikaner,  bosatta  i  Fdrenta  Staterna,  Canada  och  Sverige.  Oster- 
sund,  1902. 

Wingborg,  F.  A.  Sverige  eller  Amerika?  Nagra  erinringar  till  dem,  som 
tanka  emigrera.  Stockholm,  1903. 

Wretland  and  Kassman.  Svensk  illustrerad  vagvisare  ofver  New  York, 
Brooklyn  och  dess  omgifningar.   New  York,  1881. 

Zethraeus,  Jakob  Ludvig.  Nya  Skandinavien,  eller  om  skadligheten  for 
Sverige  och  Norrige  af  utflyttningar  som  de  nu  ske,  samt  nyttan  och 
nodvandigheten  for  dessa  riken  att  ega  kolonier,  jemte  mojligheten  att 
dem  astadkomma.   Stockholm,  1846. 

Zilliacus,  Konni.  Amerika;  en  handbok  for  menige  man.  Chicago,  1891. 

Amerika-boken.    Hjalpreda  for  utvandrare.    Riktiga  och  palitliga 

upplysningar  om  resan  till  Amerika,  arbets-  och  naturforhallanden  i  de 
olika  staterna  m  m.,  jamte  en  kort  vagledning  till  engelska  sprakets 
talande.   Stockholm,  1893. 


45 


Chapter  Five 

THE  SWEDISH  IMMIGRANTS  IN  AMERICAN 
LIFE.    GENERAL  CONTRIBUTIONS 

The  references  below  are  of  significance  in  a  study  of  the  many  varied 
aspects  of  life  among  the  Swedish  immigrants  in  America.  They  are  of  im- 
portance in  a  study  of  the  distribution  of  the  Swedes  in  America.  The  larg- 
est number  of  Swedes  are  in  the  Middle  West,  but  large  settlements  are  to 
be  found  elsewhere.  Their  distribution  was  determined  by  many  factors 
such  as  the  degree  of  success  of  immigrant  agents  of  land  companies,  rail- 
roads, states  and  other  agencies  interested  in  recruiting  immigrants;  improve- 
ments in  transportation  and  communication  within  the  United  States;  family 
ties  and  religious  sentiments.  The  element  of  time  of  arrival  in  America  was 
important  in  its  relationship  to  changing  conditions  within  the  United  States. 
To  the  immigrant,  America  was  a  land  of  opportunity,  and,  therefore,  the 
prospects  of  work  and  the  nature  of  work  as  well  as  such  long  range  factors, 
as  could  be  measured  in  terms  of  homes  and  farms  were  important.  The 
economic  developments  in  the  United  States  from  1840-1914  were  very  sig- 
nificant factors  in  the  distribution  of  the  immigrants.  The  publications  of 
the  United  States  Bureau  of  the  Census  constitute  a  major  source  in  the 
study  of  the  distribution  of  our  immigrants  in  America.  The  sources  below 
are  important  in  supplementing  these. 

But  the  immigrant  literature  is  in  many  ways  unsatisfactory.  It  contrib- 
utes little  to  explaining  how  the  economic  changes  in  New  England  toward 
the  end  of  the  nineteenth  century  influenced  the  migration  of  Swedes  to 
New  England  rather  than  in  some  instances  to  the  older  Swedish  settlements 
in  the  Middle  West.  Nor  does  the  material  seek  to  relate  the  shipment  of 
the  iron  ore  from  the  Iron  Range  of  Minnesota  across  the  Great  Lakes  to 
the  role  of  the  Swedish  immigrant.  The  material  does  not  have  a  satisfac- 
tory answer  for  the  part  that  the  Swedes  played  in  the  development  of  the 
furniture  industries  of  Jamestown,  N.  Y.,  Grand  Rapids,  Mich.,  and  Rock- 
ford,  111.,  or  the  role  of  the  Swede  as  a  lumberjack  in  the  Far  West.  If  any 
answers  are  suggested  in  relating  the  occupations  of  the  immigrants  to  their 
interests  in  Sweden  these  are  vague  and  not  too  reliable. 

A  careful  study  of  the  immigrant  literature  reveals  a  lack  of  proper  per- 
spective. Again  and  again  it  is  admitted  that  the  Swede  played  an  important 
role  as  a  farmer  and  a  skilled  or  unskilled  laborer.  This  is  largely  taken  for 
granted  while  the  immigrant  literature  concerns  itself  more  with  the  "suc- 
cessful" immigrant,  the  one  who  has  succeeded  especially  well  in  industry, 
business  or  the  learned  professions.  The  history  of  agriculture  in  many  such 
states  as  Minnesota,  Iowa,  Nebraska,  and  Kansas  has  been  profoundly  in- 
fluenced by  the  Swedish  immigrants. 

The  American  labor  movement  could  hardly  become  the  strongest  force 
in  an  age  which  shared  the  views  expressed  by  Andrew  Carnegie  in  his 

•to 


article  entitled  "Wealth"  in  the  North  American  Review  of  June,  1889.  The 
immigrants,  who  had  arrived  from  Sweden  prior  to  this  time  were  largely 
unacquainted  with  a  labor  movement.  Sweden  began  her  rapid  industriali- 
zation after  1890.  But  as  the  labor  movement  grew  in  that  country  more  and 
more  of  her  immigrants  began  to  take  an  active  part  in  the  American  labor 
unions.  In  some  trades  such  as  carpentering  and  tailoring  the  Swedes  were 
more  important  than  in  others.  The  role,  however,  of  the  Swedish  laborer 
is  one  which  receives  even  less  attention  in  the  references  below  than  the 
role  of  the  farmer.  This  illustrates  how  very  unsatisfactory  the  immigrant 
sources  are  in  many  respects.  Again  and  again  they  must  be  supplemented 
by  other  sources.  What  these  might  be  in  regard  to  the  farmer  and  the 
laborer  seems  rather  obvious.  The  section  on  "Bibliography  of  Bibliogra- 
phies" offers  a  few  references  which  are  helpful.  From  those  references  it 
is  evident  that  the  immigrant  cannot  be  removed  from  his  milieu.  The 
"America  books"  should  by  all  means  be  consulted. 

The  sources  below  are  more  satisfactory  in  describing  the  origins  of  the 
earliest  settlements  and  the  life  of  the  pioneers.  The  emphasis  is  again  and 
again  upon  the  personal  element,  and  much  of  the  literature  is  apt  to  be- 
come biographical  in  nature.  Though  "success"  is  measured  by  strange 
yardsticks,  the  immigrant  sources  clearly  testify  to  the  rise  of  the  children 
of  the  immigrant  in  the  social  and  economic  scale.  The  trend  was  away 
from  the  plow  of  the  farmer,  the  hammer  of  the  carpenter,  the  needle  of 
the  tailor,  and  the  ax  of  the  lumberjack.  Unfortunately  the  immigrant  lit- 
erature does  not  explain  this  change  in  terms  of  the  urbanization  of 
America,  vast  changes  in  American  way  of  life  and  in  attitudes.  Somehow 
the  Swedish  tailor  was  crowded  by  equally  skillful  craftsmen  from  Southern 
Europe  and  finally  the  needle  seems  to  have  been  lost  in  the  ready-to-wear 
clothes.  Once  upon  a  time  the  Swedish  immigrant  looked  upon  a  farm  and 
a  home  as  the  realization  of  a  dream.  Agricultural  crisis  upon  crisis,  when 
at  times  corn  was  cheaper  to  use  for  fuel  than  coal  and  wood,  seemed  to 
make  farming  less  attractive.  The  struggle  for  existence  was  no  less  easy 
in  the  city.  The  arrival  of  immigrants  from  other  parts  of  Europe  combined 
with  racial  and  religious  prejudices  strengthened  an  already  strong  desire 
to  advance  in  the  social  and  economic  scale,  so  to  speak,  to  move  to  another 
neighborhood.  The  middle- class  consciousness  was  strong  among  the 
Swedes,  as  the  literature  below  well  illustrates,  and  it  explains  the  strange 
slanting  of  nearly  all  references  with  their  emphasis  upon  "success."  But  it 
would  perhaps  be  truer  to  say  that  the  literature  of  the  immigrant  illustrates 
how  rapidly  the  immigrant  became  American  in  his  thoughts  and  ideals. 

It  has  been  impossible  to  include  constitutions  and  bylaws  of  Swedish 
organizations  in  America,  even  though  no  great  number  of  these  have  been 
preserved.   Moreover,  few  of  them  have  been  catalogued  in  the  libraries. 

The  Royal  Library  has  an  interesting  collection  of  articles  written  by  John 
Ericsson.  They  are  of  a  scientific  nature  and  are  not  included  in  this  body 
of  materials.  Ericsson  became  an  important  symbol  to  the  Swedish  immi- 
grants in  America.  In  their  eyes  he  turned  the  tide  of  the  Civil  War  in 
favor  of  the  North. 


47 


REFERENCES 
BOOKS  AND  PAMPHLETS 

Adams,  Waldemar  J.  Detaljerad  redogorelse  af  min  rattegang  mot  Mr.  Carl 
Dahlen.  Afskrifter  af  dartill  horande  handlingar  och  vittnesmal.  Ut- 
gifven  i  anledning  af  vilseledande  uppgifter  i  den  svensk-amerikanska 
pressen.    New  York,  [1916]. 

Adelskold,  Cl[aes  Adolf].  John  Ericsson.  Biografiska  anteckningar.  Stock- 
holm, 1894. 

Minnesord  vid  afteckningen  af  John  Ericssons  monument.    Stock- 


holm, 1901. 
Adress  till  den  skandinaviska  befolkningen  i  Minnesota,  n.  p.,  n.  d.     (An 

anti-protectionist  pamphlet  signed  by  many   Swedes.) 
Ahlroth,  Axel  A.    Svenskarne  in  Minnesota.    Historiska  anteckningar  sam- 

lade  och  utgifna.   Westervik,  1891. 
Akerlind,  Gust.  A.    Upprop  till  medlemmar  af  "The  Scandinavian  technical 

society  of  Chicago"  och  fbredrag  hallet  infor  en  samling  svenska  inge- 

niorer.    Chicago,  [1908]. 
Aldrich,  Wintrop  W.    Sweden  and  the  United  States.   Address  at  a  banquet 

tendered  to  their  Royal  Highnesses  the  Crown  Prince  and  the  Crown 

Princess  of  Sweden,  July  6,  1938.   New  York,  1938. 
American  Society  of  Swedish  Engineers.   List  of  members.    1908.   Brooklyn, 

1908. 
American  Swedish  Historical  Museum.  A  quarter  century  of  progress.  1926- 

1951.   Philadelphia,  1952. 
Anderson,  August.  Hyphenated,  or  the  life  story  of  S.  M.  Swenson.  Austin, 

Texas,  1916. 
Anderson,  E.  Einar  [Raine,  pseud.].    Bland  norrlanningar  i  Chicago.    Chi- 
cago, 1942. 
Anderson,  E.  Einar,  ed.   Historisk  festskrift  for  Chicagos  svenska  hembygds 

foreningar  utstallnings  aret  1933.   Chicago,  1933. 
Appel,  Livia,  and  Franklin  Fisk  Holbrook.   Minnesota  in  the  war  with  Ger- 
many.  St.  Paul,  1928. 
Babcock,  Kendrick  Charles.    The  rise  of  American  nationality,   1811-1819. 

New  York  and  London,  1906. 
Baker,   James   H.    Lives   of  the   governors   of   Minnesota.    St.    Paul,    1908. 

(MHC,  v.  13.). 
Bengtson,  B.  E.  Pen  pictures  of  pioneers.   Holdrege,  Neb.,  1926-1931.   2v. 
Bennett,  Frank  M.    The  Monitor  and  the  navy  under  steam.    Boston  and 

New  York,  1900. 
Benson,  Adolph  B.,  and  Naboth  Hedin.   Americans  from  Sweden.   Foreword 

by  Carl  Sandburg.   Philadelphia  and  New  York,  1950. 
Berger,  V[ilhelm].    Amerikanska  ortnamn  af  svenskt  ursprung.    New  York, 

1915. 

John  Ericsson  minnet  i  New  York,  N.  Y.    New  York,  [1930]. 

President  Franklin  D.  Roosevelts  svenska  harstamning.   New  York, 

[1937]. 

48 


Svenska  ordnar  och  medaljer  i  Forenta  Staterna.  Brooklyn,  [1931  J. 

Svenskarne  i  New  York.   New  York,  1918. 

Svenskarne  i   New  York.    Historiker  och   biografier.    New   York, 

[1908-09]. 

-Vart  sprak.    Ett  bidrag  till  kannedom  om  engelska  sprakets  infly- 


tande  pa  svenska  spraket  i  Amerika.    Rock  Island,  1912. 
Bergman,  Hans.    History  of  Scandinavians  in  Tacoma  and  Pierce  county. 
Tacoma,  1925. 

Berntson,  Olof  A.  Kort  historisk  ofver  svenskarne  i  Lowell,  Mass.,  1857-1916. 
n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Boethius,  Axel,  and  Ake  Olauson.  Var  svenska  stam  pa  utlandsk  mark. 
Svenska  oden  och  insatser  i  frammande  land.   Stockholm,  1952. 

Boethius,  B.,  and  Bengt  Hildebrand.  Svenskt  biografiskt  lexikon.  Stock- 
holm, 1918-1955.    15v. 

Bowers,  David  F.,  ed.   Foreign  influences  in  American  life.   Princeton,  1944. 

[Brage  fylkes  I.  O.  U.].  Historik  ofver  Brage  fylkes  I.  O.  U.  20  ariga  verk- 
samhet  1892-1912.   Chicago,  1912. 

Bremer,  Fredrika.  America  of  the  fifties:  letters  of  Fredrika  Bremer.  Sel. 
and  ed.  by  Adolph  B.  Benson.  New  York,  1924. 

Life,  letters,  and  posthumous  works  of  Fredrika  Bremer,  ed.  by  her 

sister,  Charlotte  [Quiding  C]  Bremer.   New  York,  1868. 

Brobeck,  Florence,  and  Monica  Kjellberg.  Scandinavian  cookery  for  Ameri- 
cans.  Boston,  1948. 

Brownson,  H.  G.    History  of  the  Illinois  Central  Railroad  to  1870.    Urbana, 

1915. 
Bruhn,  Carl.  Hundliv  i  Amerika.   [1923]. 

Carlson,  C.  A.   Northmen  who  went  west.    [Greeley,  Colo.]  1935. 
Carlson,  Earl  R.  Born  that  way.   New  York,  1941. 

Carlson,  Samuel  A.  The  saga  of  a  city  and  a  new  concept  of  government. 
[Arthur  Wellington  Anderson,  collaborator,  and  author  of  chapter  one.] 
Cleveland,  1935. 

Carpenter,  Niles.  Immigrants  and  their  children  1920.  A  study  based  upon 
census  statistics  relative  to  the  foreign  born  and  the  native  white  of 
foreign  and  mixed  parentage.  Washington,  1927.  (Census  monographs, 
1920,  no.  7). 

Cederberg,  J.  O.  Hus  byggda  pa  sanden;  nigra  betraktelser  i  anledning  av 
"Scandinavian  Mutual  Aid  Association"  i  Galesburg.   St.  Paul,  1901. 

[Cederberg,  Johan  Oscar].  Axplockning  pa  Onkel  Sams  politiska  fait.  St. 
Paul,  1897. 

Cederberg,  Richard.    Krogen,  nationernas  forbannelse.    Moline,  1899. 

Celebration  of  the  decennial  anniversary  of  the  founding  of  New  Sweden, 
Maine,  July  23,  1860.   Portland,  1881. 

Chicago  Public  Library.  Omnibus  project.  Works  projects  administration. 
The  Chicago  foreign  language  press  survey:  a  general  description  of  its 
content.   Chicago. 

49 


Christensen,  J.  C.  The  Johnson  family  of  Mariadahl.  n.  p.,  1939.  (Remini- 
scences of  A.  Victor  Johnson) . 

Church,  William  Conant.  John  Ericsson  the  engineer.  July  31,  1803 — March 
8,  1889.  New  York,  1890. 

The  life  of  John  Ericsson.    London,  1890.    New  York,  1891.    2v. 

Dahlgren,  Madeleine  Vinton.    Memoir  of  John  A.  Dahlgren,  Rear-Admiral 

United  States  Navy,  by  his  widow  M-V-D.   Boston,  1882. 
Day,  Frank  A.  and  Theodore  M.  Knappen.    John  Albert  Johnson's  lifsgar- 
ning.    Tre  ganger  guvernbr  ofver  Minnesota.    St.  Paul,  1910. 

Life  of  John  Albert  Johnson.    Chicago,  1910. 

Dellgren,  August.  Swedish  single  tax  catechism.  [Text  in  Swedish.]  Min- 
neapolis, 1896. 

Eberhart,  Adolph  Olson.  "The  American  way  of  life."  An  autobiography. 
Minneapolis,  1943. 

Elving,  C.  E.  Svensk-amerikanen  eller  var  uppgift  i  detta  land.  Tal  hallet 
af  .  .  .  i  Omaha,  Neb.,  den  4:de  juli,  1892.    Omaha,  1892. 

Ericson,  Oscar  G.  Adolph  Peterson.  Den  moderna  organiserade  svenska 
nykterhetsrorelsens  grundlaggare.    Minneapolis,  1924. 

Ericsson,  Axel  Henry.  Sixty  years  a  builder,  the  autobiography  of  Henry 
Ericsson.  Written  in  collaboration  with  Lewis  E.  Myers.   Chicago,  1941. 

Fahnehjelm,  P.  G.  W.  Nagra  upplysningar  om  angmaskinerna  och  Ericssons 
caloric  engine.    Stockholm,  1852. 

Fallenius,  Carl  J.  N.  [Mans  Henrik  Hultin,  C.  W.  Robach,  pseuds.]  Doktor 
Roback  eller  en  svensk  bonde  i  Amerika.   1865.   Stockholm,  1865. 

The  mysteries  of  astrology  and  the  wonders  of  magic,  including  a 

history  of  astrology  and  various  branches  of  necromancy  together  with 
valuable  directions  and  suggestions  relative  to  the  casting  of  nativities, 
predictions  by  geomancy,  chiromancy,  physiognomy,  etc.    Boston,  1854. 

Ett  femtioarsminne,  1867-1917.  Banbrytarnas  50  ars  jubileum  firat  i  Round 
Rock,  Texas,  den  22  juni,  1917.    n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Fonkalsrud,  Alfred  O.  Scandinavians  as  a  social  force  in  America.  Brooklyn, 
1914. 

The  Scandinavian-American.    With  the  collaboration  of  Beatrice 

Stevenson.    Minneapolis,  1915. 

Forsbeck,  Filip  A.    New  Upsala,  the  first  Swedish  settlement  in  Wisconsin. 

Milwaukee,  1936.    (Appeared  serially  in  WMH,  1935-36.) 
Forsberg,  Emil.   Svenskarne  i  Cleveland.    Cleveland,  1911. 
Framstaende  man  och  qvinnor  i  var  tid.    Biografiska  skizzer  och  hagkom- 

ster.  Chicago,  1890. 
Grand  temperance  festival  to  be  given  by  the  United  Scandinavian  Good 

templars  of  Cook   County   at  the  Association   Hall   153   LaSalle   street, 

Sunday,  March.  28,  1897  at  3:30  p.m.  Chicago,   [1897]. 
Grip,  Elias.   John  Ericsson.    En  livsbild.    Uppsala,  1920. 
[Gronberger,  Robert].    Svenskarne  i  St.  Croix-dalen,  Minnesota.    Anteck- 

ningar  samlade    af   R.    G — r   och    utgifna   af   Minnesota    Stats-Tidning. 

Minneapolis,  1879. 

50 


Gronstedt,  Johan.    Mina  minnen.    Stockholm,  1918. 

Hallner,  A.  Det  stora  falttaget  mot  hemmets  och  nationens  fiender.  Hand- 
bok  i  nykterhet,  prohibition  och  nationalekonomi.  Innehallande  manga 
statistika  uppgifter  och  flera  originela  illustrationer.  Del  1-2.  Chicago, 
1892. 

Uncle  Sam  the  teacher  and  the  administrator  of  the  world.  Sac- 
ramento, 1918. 

-Anjelika.    The  English  language  transformed  into  phonetic  orthog- 


raphy becoming  the  world  language.   A  universal  language  now  needed 
and  demanded.    Turlock,  Calif.,  1929. 
Halsning  till  hembygden  i  Jamtland.    Fran  jamtar  i  Canada   och  Forenta 
Staterna.   Winnipeg,  [1932]. 

Hammar,  Hugo.  John  Ericssons  Monitor  och  drabbningen  pa  Hampton 
Roads.  Foredrag  hallet  den  9  mars  1922  vid  firandet  av  Monitors  seger 
over  Merrimac;  till  trycket  befordrat  av  Tekniska  samfundet  i  Gote- 
borg.    Goteborg,  1925. 

John    Ericssons    Monitor    och    drabbningen    pa    Hampton    Roads. 

Stockholm,  1937. 

Hansen,  Marcus  Lee.  The  problem  of  the  third  generation  immigrant.  Rock 
Island,  1938.    (AHP,  v.  8,  pt.  1.). 

Hart,  Albert  Bushnell.  Swedish  Americanism.  Our  share  in  American  his- 
tory.  Philadelphia,  1929. 

Hedin,  Hilda.  Sallskapsglaset.  Dialogue  i  tva  avdelningar.  n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Hedstrand,  Gustaf  Fabian.   I  forna  dar.    Chicago,  1926. 

Hendin,  C.  G.  "Kapphastens"  lefnadsden  upptecknade  af  honom  sjalf  samt 
biografer  af  atskilliga  landsman.    Denver,  1910. 

Henschen,  Henry  S.  A  history  of  the  State  Bank  of  Chicago  from  1879  to 
1904.   Chicago,  1905. 

Hildebrand,  Karl,  and  Axel  Fredenholm.  Svenskarna  i  Amerika.  Popular 
historisk  skildring  i  ord  och  bild  av  svenskarnas  liv  och  underbara  oden 
i  Forenta  Staterna  och  Canada.  Medverkan  av  ett  stort  antal  av  Svensk- 
Amerikas  och  Sveriges  fornamsta  personligheter.  Stockholm,  1924-1925. 
2v. 

Hogbom,  Ivar.  Svenskar  i  utlandet.  Biografiska  uppgifter  sammanstallda 
av  Institutet  for  svensk  utlandstjanst  genom  Ivar  Hogbom.  Stockholm, 
1929. 

Holt,  H.,  ed.  The  life  stories  of  undistinguished  Americans  as  told  by  them- 
selves.  New  York,  1906. 

Horn,  Alfred.  Det  gamla  och  det  nya  systemet.  n.  p.,  [1915?]. 

Hoving,  Johannes.  Historik  ofver  Vasa  Order  af  Amerika  tjugofem-ariga 
verksamhet  1896-1921.   Chicago,  1921. 

Indebetou,  G.,  and  E.  Hylander.  Svenska  teknologforeningen  1861-1936. 
Stockholm,  1937. 

[Independent  Order  of  Vikings].  Runeristningar  .  .  .  1890-1915.  Chicago, 
1915. 

51 


Installationstal  af  Hon.  Samuel  Merrill,  guvernor  i  staten  Iowa  till  bada 
grenarna  af  generalforsamlingen,  januari  1868.   Chicago,  1868. 

The  John  Ericsson  memorial  committee  invitation  to  their  Royal  Highness' 
the  Crown  Prince  and  the  Crown  Princess  of  Sweden  ...  to  attend  the 
unveiling  of  the  monument  erected  by  the  government  and  people  of 
the  U.  S.  of  America  to  the  memory  of  Capt.  John  Ericsson.  Chicago, 
1926. 

Johnson,  Amandus.  Swedish  contributions  to  American  national  life  1638- 
1921.   New  York,  1921. 

The  Swedes  in  America  1633-1900.   Philadelphia,  1914. 

Johnson,  C.  J.  History  of  the  first  Swedish  pioneers,  who  settled  Otter 
Creek  Valley,  situated  in  Otter  Creek  and  Stockholm  Townships,  Craw- 
ford County,  Wheeler  Township,  in  Sac  County,  and  Hayes  Township, 
in  Ida  County,  Iowa,  now  known  as  Kiron  and  community,  from  1867 
to  the  present  time,  1915.   Denison,  Iowa,  1915. 

Johnson,  Eric,  and  C.  F.  Peterson.  Svenskarne  i  Illinois.  Historiska  anteck- 
ningar  samlade  och  utgifna.    Chicago,  1880. 

Johnson,  J.  A.  Det  skandinaviske  regiments  historie  (15:e  Wisconsin  regi- 
ment). En  kortfattad  historie  om  dets  organisation  og  de  felt-toge, 
hvori  det  tog  del.  LaCrosse,  Wis.,  1869. 

Raiding,  George.  Rockfords  svenskar  1885.  Historiska  anteckningar.  Chi- 
cago, 1885. 

Kurath,  Hans.  A  word  geography  of  the  Eastern  United  States.  Ann  Arbor, 
1949. 

Linguistic  atlas  of  the  United  States  and  Canada.  Handbook  of  the 

linguistic    geography    of    New    England.     With    the    collaboration    of 
Marcus  L.  Hansen,  Julia  Bloch,  Bernard  Bloch.   Providence,  1939. 

Lagerlof,  Hans.  The  Washington  memorial  to  Captain  John  Ericsson  and 
its  history.  New  York,  1924. 

[Lamb,  Martha  J.].  John  Ericsson,  the  builder  of  the  Monitor,  1803-1889. 
[New  York,  1899.] 

Landelius,  Otto  Rob.  Nerkingar  som  borgare  och  aventyrare  i  frammande 
land.  Goteborg,  1936. 

[Launes,  A.  J.].  Civil  and  industrial  progress  of  the  Swedish  people  in 
Jamestown,  N.  Y.  1848-1914.   Jamestown,  1914. 

Larson,  Fredrik.  Statistik  ofver  svenskarna  i  Forenta  Staterna  intill  aret 
1910.   Chicago,  1914.  2d  ed.  Chicago,  [1915]. 

Lincoln,  Julius.  The  significance  of  the  Swedish-American  tercentenary  of 
1938.  An  address  delivered  at  Monson  Lake,  Minnesota,  August  22,  1937. 
n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Lindwall,  Gustaf.  Ingenioren  vid  Beach  street.  John  Ericssons  liv  i  ny 
belysning.   Stockholm,  1937. 

Lof,  Eric  Adolf.  Svenska  ingeniorsforeningen  i  Forenta  Staterna  [The 
American  society  of  Swedish  Engineers]  1888-1938.  Historik  over  dess 
tillkomst  och  utveckling  med  anledning  av  dess  femtio-ariga  tillvaro. 
New  York,  1938. 

52 


Loveland,  Lilly  Ann  Steel.  Johan  Stal  [John  Steel]  from  Smaland  farmer 
lad  to  Idaho  prune  king.  Francestown,  N.  H.,  1947. 

Marell,  Oscar  G.  Purpose  and  organization  of  foreign  chambers  of  com- 
merce in  the  United  States.  Addresses  delivered  before  the  National 
Council  of  Lithuanian  chambers  of  commerce  of  America,  June  11th, 
1930.   New  York,  n.  d. 

Sweden-America.  Published  by  the  Swedish  Chamber  of  Com- 
merce of  the  United  States  of  America.    New  York,  1918. 

Twenty-fifth  anniversary  of  the  Swedish  Chamber  of  Commerce 


1907-1932.   New  York,  1932. 
Martin,  John.  The  Swedes  in  Kansas.  Topeka,  1888. 
Mattson,  Hans.  Minnen.  Lund,  1890.  2d  ed.  1891. 

Reminiscences.   The  story  of  an  emigrant.  St.  Paul,  1891. 

Mattson,  John.   Samhallet.   En  studie  ofver  vart  samhalle  sadant  det  ar  och 

sadant  det  borde  vara  eller  hvilket  parti  bora  vi  rosta  for?   Minneapolis, 

1900. 
McCordock,  Robert  Stanley.   The  Yankee  cheese  box.   Philadelphia,  1938. 
Miller,  John  P.   Vart  togo  de  vagen?    Utg.  av  Svenska  journalistforbundet  i 

Amerika.    Chicago,  1945. 
National  Union   Executive   Committee.    Address   till   Forenta   Staternas   af 

Norra  Amerika  folk.    [New  York,  1866.] 
Nelson,   Helge.    Nordamerika.    Natur,   bygd   och    svenskbygd.    Stockholm, 

1926. 
Nelson,  L.  P.    Arbetets  emancipation.    National  Greenback  Labor  partiets 

hufvuduppgift.  Chicago,  1878. 

En  upptacktsresa  genom  Sverige.   Reseberattelser.  Stockholm,  1918. 

President  Wilson,  the  world's  peace-maker.    Stockholm,  1919. 

Svenska  folkets  expansionskraft.    Stockholm,  1916. 

What  has  Sweden  done  for  the  United  States?  A  brochure  com- 
piled for  the  benefit  of  the  famine  fund  for  Northern  Sweden  and  Fin- 
land.  Chicago,  1903,  Rock  Island,  1917. 

Nelson,  Ola  Martinus.   Swedes  in  Lincoln  and  vicinity,   n.  p.,  1936. 

Swedes  in  Sioux  City  and  vicinity,   n.  p.,  1938. 

Swedish  settlements  in  Iowa;  their  founding  and  development  and 

some  of  their  noted  men  and  women,  n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Swedish  settlements  in  Iowa  with  biographies  of  Swedish  men  and 


women  in  Des  Moines  and  vicinity,    n.  p.,  n.  d., 

Swedish  settlements  in  Southwestern  Iowa.    n.  p.,  1938. 

Swedish  settlements  in  Western  Illinois,   n.  p.,  1939.  1940. 

Svenskarna  i  Nebraska.    Omaha,  1916. 

The  Swedish  element  in  Omaha;  an  account  of  the  activities  of 

men  and  women  of  Swedish  descent  in  the  development  of  the  city 
v/ith  biographical  sketches.    Omaha,  1933. 

The  Swedish  element  in  Rockford;  industrial,  religious  and  social 


activities  of  men  and  women  of  Swedish  descent,   n.  p.,  1940. 

53 


Nelson,  Oscar  N.  History  of  the  Scandinavians  and  successful  Scandinavians 

in  the  United  States.  Minneapolis,  1893-1897.   2v. 
Nilsson,  [Axel]  Hjalmar,  and  Eric  Knutson.    Svenskarne  i  Worcester  1868- 

1898.    Strodda  anteckningar,  historiker  och  biografier   om  svenskarne, 

deras  lif  och  verksamhet  i  staden  Worcester,  Mass.,  under  de  senaste 

30  aren.  Worcester,  1898. 
Nilsson,  Olof  A.   Nordamerika.   Geografisk  och  statistisk  handbok  for  Ame- 

rikas  svenskar,  utarbetad.    New  York,  1904. 
Nilsson,  P.  W.  Tal  hallet  af  P.  W.  Nilsson.   n.  p.,  n.  d. 
Nilsson,  Victor.    Forenta  Staternas  presidenter.    Popular  historia  i  ord  och 

bild.   Minneapolis  and  Chicago,  1894. 
Norberg,  P.  G.    Svenskarnes  Amerika  och  Amerikas  svenskar.    Stockholm, 

1911. 
Nordisk  familjebok.    Stockholm,  1923-1937.    23v. 

N.  P.  P.  et  al.    Svenska  amerikanska  tradgardsboken.    [Chicago?]    n.  d. 
Nyblom,  Gosta.    Americans  of  Swedish  descent;  how  they  live  and  work. 

Rock  Island,  1948. 
Nyquist,  Edna.    Pioneer  life  and  lore  of  McPherson  County,  Kansas.    Mc- 

Pherson,  1932. 
Offentliga  moten.    Logen  Fortunas  i  New  York  inbjudan.    New  York,  1888. 
O.  G.  L — e.  Address  till  Scandinavisk-Amerikanska  borgare  i  Forenta  Sta- 

terna.  n.  p.,  n.  d.  [Chicago,  1864.] 
Olson,  Edwin  A.   In  honor  of  a  man  who  believes  that  a  public  office  is  a 

public  trust.  Chicago,  n.  d. 

Olson,  Ernest  W.,  ed.    History  of  the  Swedes  of  Illinois.    [In  collaboration 

with  Anders  Schon  and  Martin  J.  Engberg.]    Chicago,  1908.   3v. 
Olson,  Ernst  W.   The  Swedish  element  in  Illinois.   Survey  of  the  past  seven 

decades.   With  life  sketches  of  men  of  today.    Chicago,  1917. 
Olsson,  Anna  Coombs.    The  smorgasbord  cookbook.    Over  200  new  recipes. 

New  York,  1949. 
Osterberg,  J.  S.   Svenskarne  i  Rhode  Island.   En  historik  ofver  svenskarnas 

uti  Rhode  Island  lif  och  verksamhet  fran  den  dag  forsta  svenskar  an- 

lande  till  nuvarande  tid.    Worcester,  1915. 
Otley,  Abram  C.   The  Swedish  race  in  America.   Philadelphia,  1940. 
Palmer,  John  M.    Guvernor  John  M.  Palmers  budskap  vid  intradet  i  em- 

betet.   Chicago,  1869. 
Park,  Robert  E.  The  immigrant  press  and  its  control.  New  York,  1922. 
Park,  Robert  E.,  and  Herbert  A.  Miller.   Old  world  traits  transplanted.   New 

York,  1925. 
Pehrsson,  P.    Den  forste  svenske  nybyggaren  i  vastra  Amerika.    Goteborg, 

1941. 
Peterson,  August.  History  of  the  Swedes  who  settled  in  Clay  County,  South 

Dakota  and  their  biographies.    Swedish  Pioneer  Historical   Society   of 

Clay  County,  1947. 
Peterson,   A.    Sallskapet   Good-Templars   uppkomst,   sammansattning,    till — 

vaxt,  principer,  verksamhetssatt  och  andamal.    New  York,  1882. 

54 


Peterson,  C.  F.  Sverige  i  Amerika.  Kultur  historiska  och  biografiska  teck- 
ningar.   Chicago,  1898. 

Peterson,  C.  Stewart.  Admiral  John  A.  Dahlberg,  father  of  naval  ordnance. 
New  York,  1945. 

Pierce,  Bessie  L.  A  history  of  Chicago.  New  York,  1937,  1940.  2v. 

Press  comments  of  J.  A.  Enander's  campaign  speeches  1888.  n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Rasmusen,  Christian  A.   A  history  of  the  city  of  Red  Wing,  1934. 

Rundgren,  C.  H.  Till  John  Ericssons  minne.   Karlstad,  1875. 

Rydell,  Carl.  Adventures  of  Carl  Rydell,  the  autobiography  of  a  seafaring 
man.  Ed.  by  Elmer  Green.  London,  1924. 

Sandburg,  Carl.  Always  the  young  strangers.  New  York,  1953. 

Sandels,  G.  M.  Waseurtz  af.  A  sojourn  in  California  by  the  King's  Or- 
phan ...  ed.  with  an  introduction  by  Helen  Putnam  Van  Sicklen.  San 
Francisco,  1945. 

Save,  Teofron.  John  Ericsson.  Lefnadsteckning.  Stockholm,  1906. 

John  Ericsson.  Minnesteckning.   Stockholm,  1891. 

Scandinavians   in  San  Francisco   and   Alameda   Counties,   California,   1900. 

Containing  biographical  sketches,  statistics  of  congregations  and  so- 
cieties, business  directory,  etc.    [San  Francisco,  1900.] 

The  Scandinavian  Societies  Building  Association.  Our  progress,  history; 
1861-1927.  Worcester,  1927. 

Scott,  Franklin  D.  The  United  States  and  Scandinavia.  Cambridge,  Mass., 
1950. 

Seabrook,  William.  Svenskar  och  andra  utlanningar  i  Amerika.  Stockholm, 
1939. 

Severin,  Ernst,  ed.  Svenskarne  i  Texas  i  ord  och  bild  1838-1918.  Ett  histo- 
riskt-biografiskt  arbete,  samladt  och  utgivet.   Austin,  1918.  2v. 

[Skandinavisk  nykterhets  sallskapet  i  Amerika].  Upprop  till  svenskarne  i 
Amerika.  St.  Paul,  1886. 

Skarstedt,  Ernst.  Berattelse  om  ett  besok  i  Monitor-tradgarden  vid  Medford, 
Oregon,  .  .  .  Chicago,  1907. 

California  och  dess  svenska  befolkning,  .  .  .  Seattle,  1910. 

Oregon  och  dess  svenska  befolkning.   Seattle,  1911. 

Svensk-amerikanska  folket  i  helg  och  socken.    Strodda  blad   ur 

svensk-amerikanarnas  historia,  deras  oden  och  bedrifter,  nederlag  och 
segrar,  livsintressen  och  forstroelser  jamte  biografiska  uppgifter  om  att 
antal  markesman.  Stockholm,  1917. 

Till  Peter  J.  Adamson  pa  hans  33:dje  fodelsedag  den  6  febr.  1909. 


[Seattle,  1909.] 

Vagabond  och  redaktor.   Lefnadsoden  och  tidsbilder.   Seattle,  1914. 

(Intr.  by  Jacob  Bonggren  and  drawings  by  Olof  Grafstrom.) 

Washington  och  dess  svenska  befolkning.   Seattle,  1908. 


Sbderstrom,  Alfred.    Minneapolisminnen.    Kulturhistorisk  axplockning  fran 
qvarnstaden  vid  Mississippi.   [Minneapolis],  1899. 

55 


Stackelberg,   Berndt  Oskar.    John  Ericsson  och  ett  hundra   af  hans   upp- 

finningar.   Stockholm,  1866. 
Stillson,  Henry  L.,  ed.    The  official  history  of  Odd  Fellowship.    The  three  - 

link  fraternity.   Boston,  1904. 
Stockenstrom,  [Carl]  Herman.    Orkanen  i  Vasa,  Minnesota,  natten  mellan 

den  2  och  3  juli,  1879.   [Vasa,  1879.] 
Stomberg,  A[ndrew]  A.   Den  svenska  folkstammen  i  Amerika.    Nagra  syn- 

punkter.   Stockholm,  1928. 
Story  of  New  Sweden  as  told  at  the  quarter  centennial  celebration  of  the 

founding  of  the  Swedish  colony  in  the  woods  of  Maine,  June  25,  1895. 

Portland,  1896. 
Stovby,  N.  S.    Skandinavisk  Temperance-kalendar.    Ofverblick  af  nykter- 

hetsrorelsen  bland  skandinaverna  i  Nord  Amerika.  Brooklyn,  1896. 
Strand,  A.  C,  ed.    A  history  of  the  Swedish-Americans  of  Minnesota  .  .  . 

Illus.  Chicago,  1910.  3v. 

[Swan,  Gustaf  N.]    Amerikana  och  Svenska-Amerikana.    (A  collection  of 

clippings  from  newspapers  by  G.  N.  Swan.) 
The  first  Swedes  in  Sioux  City,  Iowa.   1927. 

The  pioneer  Scandinavians  in  Iowa.  n.  p.,  [1926]. 

Svenskarna  i  Sioux  City.    Nagra  blad  ur  deras  historia.    Chicago, 

1912. 

Swansson,  Carl  E.  Social  wrongs  and  a  practical  remedy:  a  public  property 
reserve.  New  York,  1913. 

Swanson,  Selma  Liljedahl.  The  Liljedahls  of  the  Nishnabotna  Valley.  Hart- 
land,  Wis.,  1948. 

[Svenska  glee  klubben].  Stadgar,  lokalregler,  styrelse  och  medlems  lists  af 
Svenska  glee  klubben  i  Chicago  1903. 

Svenska  klubben  1870-1916.  A  brief  resume  of  forty-six  years  of  history. 
Chicago,  1916. 

Svensk-amerikanska  kokboken.  Chicago,  1903. 

Svensk-Amerikanska  nyhetsbyran  1921-1931.   Stockholm,  1932. 

Svenskarna  i  utlandet.  [Bilaga  XX.  Emigrationsutredningen.]  Stockholm, 
1911. 

Svenska  ingeniorsforeningen  Constitution  and  by-laws  and  list  of  members 
and  yearbook,  1909-1919.    Chicago,  1909-1919. 

Svenska  ingeniorsforeningen  i  Forenta  Staterna  1888-1938.   New  York,  1938. 

Svenska  ingeniorskongressen  i  Forenta  Staterna.   Minnesbok.   Chicago,  1916. 

Svenska  Tribunens  pictorial  guide  to  Chicago  and  the  world's  Columbian 

exposition.   With  maps  and  plans.    Chicago,  1893. 
Svenska   typografforeningen    i    Chicago.     Minnesskrift,    1893-1913.     Chicago. 

1913. 

Svenskarne  inom  Odd  Fellow  orden  i  Forenta  Staterna.  Nagra  anteckningar 
tillagnade  jubileumsutstallningen  i  Goteborg  1923.   Brooklyn,  [1922]. 

Sverige-Amerika  stiftelsen.   Jubileumsskrift,  1919-1929.   Stockholm.  1929. 

56 


[Swedish-American  Republican  League  of  Illinois].  Proceedings  of  the  con- 
vention of  the  .  .  .  March  9,  1895  and  the  first  John  Ericsson  day  dinner. 
Chicago,  1895.  Proceedings  of  the  convention  of  the  .  .  .  March  9-10, 
1896  and  March  9-10, 1897,  n.  p.,  n.  d.  Proceedings  of  the  convention  1898, 
1899,  1900  and  1901.  Chicago,  n.  d. 

[Swedish  Club  of  San  Francisco].  Historical  review  of  the  activities  of  the 
Swedish  Club  of  San  Francisco,  1913-1923.   n.  p.,  n.  d. 

[Swedish  Colonization  Co.].  Articles  of  incorporation  of  the  Swedish  Colo- 
nization Company.  Chicago,  1884. 

The  Swedish  Directory  of  Cleveland.  Cleveland,  1898. 

Swensson,  Carl  Aaron.  The  Swedes  in  America.  A  lecture  in  the  Amphi- 
theater, Chautauqua,  N.  Y.  Aug.  2,  1888.   Topeka,  1889. 

Thompson,  Warren  S.,  and  P.  K.  Whelpton.  Population  trends  in  the  United 
States.  New  York  and  London,  1933. 

Till  H.  Excellens  Abraham  Lincoln,  president  af  Forenta  Staterna.  n.  p.,  n.  d. 
(An  appeal  by  Swedes  in  Illinois  for  the  advancement  and  promotion 
of  Col.  Oscar  Malmborg.) 

Upham,  W.  Minnesota  geographic  names.  Their  origin  and  historic  signifi- 
cance.  St.  Paul,  1920.  (MHC,  v.  17.) 

Utredning  om  utlandssvenskarna  verkstalld  av  Socialstyrelsen.  Stockholm, 
1941. 

Utstallning  1893.  The  "World's  fair."  Efter  fyra  arshundraden  kommer 
Amerikas  upptackande  att  hogtidligen  firas  genom  en  verldsutstallning 
i  Chicago,  111.  Chicago,  1891. 

Vasa  Orden  af  Amerika.  Historik  ofver  Vasa  Orden  af  Amerika;  tjugo- 
femariga  verksamheten  1896-1921.  Chicago,  1921. 

1896-1946.  Historik.  Worcester,  1946. 

Historical  review,  1908-1943,  District  Lodge  No.  8,  Vasa  Order  of 

America,  Carl  Stockenberg,  ed.  Chicago,  n.d. 

Historik  ofver  distriktlogens  New  York  No.  4  verksamhet  1902- 


1927.  New  York,  1927. 

[Verdandi  Lodge].  History  of  Verdandi  Lodge  No.  3,  I.  O.  S.,  1931-1940.  Chi- 
cago, 1940. 

The  Washington  memorial  to  Captain  John  Ericsson  and  its  history.  New 
York,  1924. 

Wenngren,  C.  A.  Prohibitionspartiets  historia  med  fastadt  afseende  pa  den 
allmanna  nykterhetsrorelsen  i  Amerika.  Rock  Island,  1890. 

Westfeldt,  Frank  J.  Rockford  i  ord  och  bild.  n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Westman,  Erik  G.,  and  E.  Gustaf  Johnson.  The  Swedish  element  in  Amer- 
ica. A  comprehensive  history  of  Swedish-American  achievements  from 
1638  to  the  present  day  including  a  biographical  history  of  the  outstand- 
ing men  and  women  who  occupy  prominent  places  in  all  walks  of  life  in 
the  United  States  today.  Chicago,  1931.  4v. 

Wick,  B.  L.  The  Vasa  order.  An  address  delivered  at  Cedar  Rapids,  Iowa, 
Oct.  3,  1931.   [Cedar  Rapids,  1931.] 

57 


Wickman,    Gunnar.     Till    fars    och    mors    land;    Vasaordens    barnklubbars 

Sverigeresa  1924.   Reseminnen.   Goteborg,  1924. 
The  "World's  Fair."  Efter  fyra  arhundraden  kommer  Amerikas  upptackande 

att  hogtidligen  firas  genom  en  verldsutstallning  i  Chicago,  111.,  U.  S.  A., 

1893.  Chicago,  1891. 

ARTICLES 

Adamic,  Louis.    "Americans  from  Sweden."    NN,  pp.  122-144. 

"They  believed  in  liberty.    Americans  from  Sweden."    WD,   (Aug. 

1945). 

Akerlind,  G.  A.   "The  status  of  the  Swedish  engineer  in  the  United  States." 

SHS,  3  (1909-10),  25-39. 
Albinson,  Grace  G.    "An  early  Swedish  settlement  in  Michigan."    ASHM, 

(1947),  49-54. 

"Parsons  of  Detroit."   ASM,  37  (April,  1943),  7. 

Alexis,    Joseph.     "Pioneers    in    Nebraska."     ASM,    42    (June    1948),    56-57, 
110-111. 

"Swedes  in  Nebraska."  NHSP,  19  (1919),  79-85. 

Almen,  O.  "Svensk-Amerika  i  kampen  emot  tuberkulosen."   VK,  12  (March 

1908),  143-146. 
Alund,  O.  W.   "John  Ericsson."    [Excerpt  from  "Nigra  minnesblad."]    VK,  7 

(July  1903),  338-364. 
"Americans  with  Swedish  roots  count  fruit  of  100  years  in  U.  S."   CSM, 

(June  5,  1948). 
Ander,  O.  Fritiof.   "The  effects  of  the  immigration  law  of  1924  upon  a  mi- 
nority group."   AHA,  (1942),  343-352. 

"The    immigrants    and   their    descendants    in   American    politics." 

A£P,  pp.  45-52. 

"Public  officials."   SIA,  pp.  321-337. 

"Some  factors  in  the  Americanization  of  the  Swedish  immigrant, 


1850-1890."   JIHS,  26  (April- July  1933),  136-150. 

"Swedish-American  newspapers  and  the  Republican  party,  1855- 

1875."   AHP,  2  (1932),  64-77. 

"The  Swedish-American  press  and  the  American  Protective  Asso- 


ciation."  CH,  6  (June  1937),  165-179. 
"The  Swedish-American  press  and  the  election  of  1892."    MVHR, 


23  (March  1937),  533-554. 
Anderson,  B.    "Svea  Gille  i  Worcester,  Mass."    VK,   1    (Jan.   1897),  21-25. 

1897:  21-25. 
Anderson,  Harriet  Jean.  "'God  Jul'  in  U.  S.  A."   TW  (Dec.  19,  1948). 
Anderson,  John  A.  "Civil  war  reminiscences."  SHS,  3  (1909-10),  17-22. 
Anderson,  Mary.    "The  value  of  Swedish-Americans  to  the  nation."    BAIS, 

1  (July  1944),  9-15. 
Anderson,  O.  W.    "Jamestown,  N.  Y.,  och  svenskarne  der."    VK,  2   (Nov. 

1898),  561-566. 

58 


Anderson,  Theodore  W.    "Swedish  pioneers  in  Kansas."    SHS,  10  (1924-25), 

7-18. 
Ankarfelt,  Signe.   "Pa  obanade  stigar.  En  banbrytares  hagkomster."    [Johan 

Olof  Liedberg.]  PB,  6  (1906),  162-173. 
Babcock,  Kendric  C.    "Scandinavian  contingent."    AM,  77  (May  1896),  660- 

670. 

"Scandinavian  element  in  American  population."    AHR,  16   (Jan. 

1911),  300-310. 

"Scandinavian   element   in   the   United   States."    MVHR,   2    (Dec. 


1915),  440-443. 

"The  Scandinavians  in  American  life."  AM,  77  (May  1896). 

"Scandinavians  in  the  Northwest."  Forum,  14  (Sept.  1892) ,  103-109. 


Backhand,  J.  O.   "Chicago."   ASM,  42  (June  1948),  35-37,  104-107. 

Barnitz,    Wirt.     "Industrial    Wizard."     [Vincent   Bendix.]     ASM,    31    (Nov. 

1937),  7-9. 
Baron,  H.  Archer.    "Record-breaking  shipbuilder."    [Samuel  J.  Anderson  of 

the  Bethlehem-Fairfield  Shipyards.]    ASM,  37  (March  1943),  11,  28. 
Barry,  Edward.    "100  years  of  Sweden  in  the  Middle  West."    CT,  (June  6, 

1948). 
Barton,  A.  O.  "Carl  Gustaf  Mellberg,  Koshkonong  pioneer,  and  other  Swed- 
ish settlers."  WMH,  29  (June  1946),  407-422. 
Baum,  Arthur  W.,  and  Tigrett  Burton.    "Everything  happens  on  a  bus." 

[C.  E.  Wickman.]    SEP,  218  (April  20,  1946),  30-31,  79-82. 
Bemis,  Myrtle.    "History  of  the  settlement  of  Swedes  in  North  Dakota." 

NDHC,  3  (1910).  247-320. 
Benson,  Adolph  B.   "John  Lindmark:   versatile  Swedish  immigrant  in  New 

York."   ASHM,  (1946),  5-22. 

"Magazines."   SIA,  pp.  206-208. 

"Scandinavian  Day   at  Waterbury,   Connecticut."    ASM,   29    (Oct. 

1935),  16-17,  35-37. 

"Swedish  influence  on  American  culture."    BAIS,  4   (March  and 


June,  1949). 
Benson,  Oscar  Algot.    "Problems  in  the  accommodation  of  the  Swede  to 

American  culture."   UPB,  30  (Nov.  15,  1933),  1-8. 
Berg,  Ruben  G:son.  "Svenskan  i  Amerika."  SOS,  (1904),  1-21. 
Bergendoff,   Conrad.    "Centennial    of   Swedish  pioneers."     ASR,    34    (June 

1946),  114-119. 
Berger,  Vilhelm.    "American  place   names   of  Swedish   origin."    ASM,    29 

(Sept.  1935),  17-18,  41-42. 

"American  governors  of  Swedish  descent."    ASM,  28   (Nov.  1934), 

365-366. 

"Amerikanska  ortnamn  av  svenskt  ursprung."   ARF,  (1928),  32-45. 


[ ]  "Bemarkta  svenskar  i  Amerika.    VK,  12-13,  (1908-1910). 

"Descendants  of  Swedes  in  American  Congress."    ASM,  28  (July- 

Oct.  1934),  221-222,  258-259,  331. 

59 


"Ett  par  minnen  fran  hundaren.    PB,  10  (1910),  100-106. 

"Hakan  Johansen.   Ett  svenskt  banbrytarminne  vid  Ostervag."   PB, 

11  (1911),  101-109. 

"Nagra  svenska  karaktarsdrags  amerikanisering."    VK,  12   (1908), 


114-121. 

"Nagra  tankar  om  emigrationsfragan."   VK,  13  (March  1909),  89-93. 

'Prins  Wilhelms  besok  i  Forenta  Staterna.    Kort  redogorelse  for 


de  till  hans  ara  anordnade  festligheterna."    PB,  8  (1908),  13-32. 
"Svenska  namn  pa  Amerikas  karta."    NOB,  26  (1938),  61-102. 


Bergin,  Alfred.  "The  Swedish  settlements  in  central  Kansas."  KSHS,  11 
(1909-1910),  22. 

Bergman,  Emanuel.  "Hembygdsrorelsen  i  Sverige  och  Amerika."  AS,  25 
(Oct.  1938),  10-16. 

Bergquist,  Alida.   "The  Swedes  in  Chicago."   ASD,  pp.  159-173. 

Birgers,  Daniel.  "Program  ha  vi  nar  vi  samlas  i  vara  organisationer."  AS, 
33  (Aug.  1946),  11-13. 

Blegen,  Theodore  C.  "The  competition  of  the  Northwestern  states  for  im- 
migrants."  WMH,  3  (Sept.  1919),  3-29. 

Bonggren,  Jakob.  "Adolph  O.  Eberhart.  Varmlandspojken  som  blev  guver- 
nor  i  Minnesota."  AS,  17  (Feb.  11,  1930),  1-3. 

"Tva  svensk-amerikanska  guvernorer."    VS,  (1906),  53-62. 

"Svenska  fria  arbetsbyran  i  Chicago."   VS,  (1907),  57-70. 

"Bland  svenskarne  i  Amerika."    [Anna  Hellstrom  and  Gust  P.  Wern.]    VK, 

9  (Sept.  1905),  440-42,  444-46. 
Boyesen,  H.  H.   "Scandinavian  in  the  United  States."   NAR,  155  (Nov.  1892), 

526-535. 
Brigg,  Harold  E.  "The  great  Dakota  boom."   NDHQ,  4  (Jan.  1930),  78-108. 
Brown,  Nils  F:son.    "Svensk-amerikanska  problem."    US,  1    (no.  2,  1939), 

8-11. 

"The  Swedes  among  us."    AME,  8  (May  1926),  9-13. 

Brumley,  Mary  Jane.  "Champion  of  women's  welfare  in  industry."  [Mary 
Anderson.]    ASM,  37  (Nov.  1943),  12-13,  27-28. 

"Government  expert  on  farm  economics."    [Eric  Englund.]    ASM, 

37  (April  1943),  9-10. 

"Lawmaker  and  sailor."     [U.   S.   Senator  Warren   G.   Magnuson.] 


ASM,  36  (Oct.  1942),  6-7,  27-28. 

"Lund   of   the   D.   C.    chapter."     [Otto   Severin   Lund.]     ASM,   36 

(March  1942),  6-7-28. 
"Senator  Johnson  of  Colorado."   ASM  33  (Dec.  1939),  18-19,  46-47. 


Bruhn,  Carl.  "Statement  of  Carl  Bruhn  on  Dec.  14,  1921  before  committee 
on  Immigration  and  Naturalization  of  the  6th  Congress."  2d  sess.  (Serial 
1-B,  pp.  112-140.) 

Burr,  W.  "Dirt  Farmer  representing  the  farmer.  IND,  114  (March  7,  1925), 
269-271. 

"Magnus  Johnson  will  be  heard."  OU,  135  (Dec.  26,  1923),  723-725. 

60 


[ ]  "Minnesota  sends  a  'Bull  of  Bashan'  to  the  Senate."    [Magnus 

Johnson.]    CO,  75    (1923),  287-290. 
C.  J.  K.    "Svenska-benefit-foreningen  i  Philadelphia."    VK,  5   (June  1901) 

294-298. 
Carlfelt,  C.  G.    "Tri-Cities  stage  triple  celebration."  ASM,  42  (June  1948), 

17,  92. 
Carlson,  Elmer.   "The  earlier  Swedes  in  Colorado."   ASHF,  (1949),  37-56 

"Swedish  pioneers  and  the  discovery  of  gold  in  Alaska."    ASHF, 

(1948),  63-81. 

Carlson,  Elmer  [Judge].    "Early  Swedes  in  Iowa."    ASM,  42   (June  1948), 

78-79,  102-104. 
Carlson,  Leland  H.    "Judge  George  E.  G.  Johnson."    ASHF,   (1949),  57-70. 
"Butter-and-egg  man."    [Carl  A.  Swanson.]    F,  28  (Oct.  1943),  122-125. 
Byrnes,  Garrett  D.    "Celluloid  jewelry."    [George  F.  Berkander.]    ASM,  31 

(Jan.  1937),  14-15,  34. 
Casson,  H.  N.   "The  Scandinavians  in  America."    MM,  35  (Aug.  1906),  613- 

618. 
Church,  John   C.    "John  Ericsson  the   engineer.    July   31,   1803 — March  8, 

1889."    SM,  7   (Feb.-March  1890),  169-185,  336-361. 
"Centennial  of  the  Swedish  pioneers."   SS,  53  (Sept.  29,  1948)  16. 
Clauson,  J.   "Skandinaviska  foreningen  Vega  i  New  Britain,  Conn."   UK,  2 

(May  1898),  243-245. 
Clawe,  Gosta.    "De  svenska  sprakdialekterna  i  Amerika."    AS,  23   (Nov.  1, 

1936),  8-9. 

"Svenska  landskapsforeningar  i  Amerika."   AS.  24  (April  1.  1937), 

5-6. 

Coolidge,  C.  "Great  American."  [Address  at  the  unveiling  of  the  John 
Ericsson  memorial.]    ASR,  14  (July  1926),  422-427. 

Coulter,  John  L.  "Industrial  history  of  the  Valley  of  the  Red  River  of  the 
North."  NDHC,  3  (1910),  529-673. 

Dahlberg,  R.  N.  and  C.  L.  "Pehr  Dahlberg  and  the  first  Swedish  settlement 
in  Iowa."   AI,  16  (July  1928),  323-330. 

Davenport,  Samuel  R.  "Clinton  P.  Anderson."  ASM,  39  (Sept.  1945),  6-7, 
25-26. 

[Delaware  Tricentennial] .  [Clippings  from  American  newspapers,  May- 
June  1939  with  reference  to  the  Delaware  celebration.] 

Dreutzer,  O.  E.   "Reminiscences  of  a  pioneer."    SP,  1  (Jan.  1951),  14-24. 

[Eastman,  Charles  J.]  "Charles  J.  Eastman.  Arizona  pioneer."  ASM,  28 
(May  1934),  147,  169. 

Eberhart,  Adolph  O.  "The  American  way  of  life."  BASI,  4  (Dec.  1949), 
20-26;  5  (Sept.  1950),  22-26;  6  (Autumn  1951)  3-13;  6  (Winter  1951), 
24-29. 

"On  to  the  promised  land."   BAIS,  1  (Jan.  1945) ,  6-10. 

Edwards,  Everett  E.   "Their  road  led  west."   ASM,  42  (June  1948),  63-65. 
Egardh,  Johan.    "Svenskarna  i  Vastern."    SVIA,  v.  2,  pp.  69-91. 

61 


Edgren,  H.   "Sjostriden  pa  Hampton  Roads  1862."   PB,  3  (1903),  15-26. 
Edgren,  J.  A.    "Jordbafningen  i  Kalifornien."    VS,  (1907),  161-174. 

"San  Francisco  och  omnejd."   VS,  (1905),  27-42. 

"Sommarlager  i  Kalifornien."    VS,  (1906),  135-146. 

Edstrom,  Aaron.    "En  svenskt-amerikansk  mecenat,  Senator  C.  J.  A.  Eric- 

son."   PB,  11  (1911),  224-230. 
Ekstam,  Ralph  G.    "The  smorgasbord  makes  conquests  in  Amerika."    ASM, 

28  (April  1934),  114-115. 

Enander,   Joh.   A.     "Chicago-branden.     Ett    trettioarsminne.     VK,    5    (Dec. 
1901),  631-640. 

"Chicagos  brand.  Ett  30-arigt  minne  skildrat."  VS,  (1901),  139-158. 

"Forenta  Staternas  kapitolium."    VS,   (1906),  177-196. 

"Kamp  och  seger  under  svensk-amerikanernas  nybyggarelif."  VS, 

(1900),  74-90. 

"Svensk-amerikas  dag  i  Norrkoping."    PB,  7    (1907),  69-90. 

"Svensk-amerikanska  insamlingen  for  nodlidande  i  norra  Sverige." 


PB,  4  (1904),  118-160. 

"Tre  amerikanska  hogtidsdagar."   VS,  (1899),  82-96. 

"Vastgotamonumentet   i   Minnesota.    Minnen   fran   indianupproret 


om  hosten  1862."   VS,  (1902),  67-87. 
Engberg,  George  B.    "Knights  of  labor  in  Minnesota."    MH,  22  (Dec.  1941). 
367-390. 

Englund,  Eric.    "Farmers."   SIA,  pp.  75-91. 

Erickson,  Erick  P.    "Pioneer  life  in  South  Dakota."    BAIS,  1   (July  1944), 

16-34. 
Ericson,  C.  E.  "Dr.  Amandus  Johnson;  historian  of  the  Swedes  in  America." 

ASM,  30  (Aug.  1936),  8-10,  42. 
[Ericson,  Charles  John  Alfred].    President  of  City  Bank  of  Boone,  la.,  and 

State  Senator.  [Necrology.]    SHS,  3  (1909-10),  78-80. 
Ericson,  C.  J.  A.  "Minnen  af  en  svensk  invandrare  fran  1852."  VK,  11  (June 

1907),  277-283. 

"Memories  of  a  Swedish  immigrant  of  1852."    AI,  8   (April  1907), 

1-12. 

Ericsson,  John.  "Statements  relating  to  the  defence  of  sea  ports  of  the 
United  States,"  addressed  to  Hon.  S.  S.  Cox.  Chm.  of  the  Committee  of 
Naval  Affairs,  House  of  Repr.  New  York.  Jan.  7,  1884.  (The  Royal  Li- 
brary has  a  collection  of  articles  by  John  Ericsson  on  "solar  investiga- 
tions.") 

"Ericsson's  'Destroyer'  and  her  new  gun."    SMO,  21  (March  1881), 

689-693. 

"The  Ericsson  monument."    ASR,  5  (May- June  1917),  175. 


Ericsson,  Karl  Johan  Alfred.    "En  svensks   resa   till  Amerika  ar  1852  och 
hans  forsta  ar  som  nybyggare."   AS,  25  (Sept. -Oct.  1938),  8-10. 

Essen,   Riitger.     "Svcnskarna    i    Nordamerikas    krigshistoria."     SVIA,    v.    1, 
pp.  166-196. 

62 


Farnstrom,  Karin.    "New  Queen  of  the  air."    ASM,  41  (Sept.  1947),  6-7,  34. 
Faust,  Levin.   "The  Rockford  Swedes."  SHSB,  3  (June  1930),  61-72. 

"Svensk   foretagsamhet  och  svenska   arbetare."    SVIA,   v.    2,   pp. 

38-48. 

Fernlund,  Bo.    "Hos  svenskamerikaner."    US,  11   (Aug.  1949),  21-23. 
"Festival  honors  Swedish  pioneers."    ASM,  40  (Sept.  1946),  12,  27-28 
Flanagan,  John.    "Fredrika  Bremer:  traveller  and  prophet."    MH,  20  (June 

1939),  129-139. 
Flom,  George  T.    "The  early  Swedish  immigration  to   Iowa."    IJ,  3    (Oct. 

1905),  583-615. 

"The  growth  of  the  Scandinavian  factor  in  the  population  of  Iowa." 

IJ,  4  (Oct.  1906),  267-285. 

"The  Scandinavian  factor  in  the  American  population."   IJ,  3  (Jan. 


1905),  57-91. 
"Forenta  Staternas  sjal."    VR,  (1919),  55-61. 
Forsbeck,  F.  A.    "New  Upsala:  the  first  Swedish  settlement  in  Wisconsin." 

WMH,  19  (Sept.  1935  and  March  1936),  3-31,  161-181,  294-318. 
Franson,  S.    "Historik  ofver  The  Independent  Order  of  Svithiod,  dess  upp- 

komst  och  utveckling."   VK,  1  (April  1897),  27-32. 
Franzen,  Gosta.   "Det  foranderliga  svenskamerika."   AS,  34  (Nov.  1947),  2-3, 

10. 
"American  daughters  of  Sweden  in  Chicago."   ASM,  43  (May  1949), 

14,  20. 
Fredenholm,  Axel.   "Hur  svenska  kolonier  bildades  i  Forenta  Staterna."  AS, 

35  (Nov.  1947),  2-3,  10. 
Freeburg,  Victor  O.    "Imports  and  importers."    SIA,  pp.  584-598. 
Giving,  Selma,  and  David  L.  Tilderquist.    "Doctors."    SIA,  pp.  338-356. 
Glover,  Katherine.    "Builder  of  international   good  will."     [Col.   Oscar   N. 

Solberg.]    ASM,  31  (Nov.  1937),  4-6. 
Grably,  D.    "Swedes  moved  West:   centennial  of  settlement  in  the  United 

States."  CSM,  (Nov.  22,  1947). 
"Great  American."    [John  Ericsson.]    ASR,  14  (July  1926),  422-427. 
Gustafson,  E.  B.   "The  Swedes  in  Minnesota,"   SHS,  10  (1924-25),  45-111. 
Gustafson,  Henning.   "Stockholm,  Wisconsin,  a  century  old."  SP,  2  (Autumn 

1951),  35-38. 
"Vision  and  growth."     [Hilmer  Lundbeck.]     ASM,   33    (Dec.   1939),   12-13, 

41,  43. 
Hammarberg,  A.  L.    "Tillverkning  af  vallda  ror  i  Nordamerikas  Forenta 

Stater.    Reseberattelse."    Bihang  till  Jernkontorets  annaler  for  ar  1909. 
Hansen,  Mabel  V.   "The  Swedish  settlement  on  Pine  Lake."   WMH,  8  (Sept. 

1924),  38-51. 

Hanson,  Sigurd.   "John  Ericsson  i  svensk  litteratur,  en  maktpaliggande  bio- 
grafisk  uppgift."   GH,  (March  9,  1937). 

Hanson,  Thorsten.    "American -Swedish  communications."    ASH,   2    (1945), 
48-56. 

63 


Harvard,  W.  S.  "Swedish  tricentennial  in  Minneapolis."  HW,  37  (May  27, 
1893). 

Hassan,  Abu.  "Bror  Dahlberg — skaningen  som  revolutionerar  Amerikas 
byggnadsindustri."    US,  6   (no.  1,  1944),  20-22. 

Haugen,  Einar.  "The  Swedish  attorney  in  Waupaca  County."  SP,  1  (Spring 
1951),  39-43. 

Hawkinson,  Zenos.  "An  interpretation  of  the  background  of  the  Evangeli- 
cal Mission  Covenant  Church  of  America."   SP,  2  (Summer  1951),  3-14. 

Head,  D.  "Tuberculosis  among  the  Scandinavians."  Charities,  21  (Nov.  7, 
1908),  249. 

Hedin,  Naboth.  "Getting  ready  for  New  Sweden."  ASM,  31  (March  1937), 
10-13. 

"The  cultural  contacts  between  the  United  States  and  Sweden." 

ASH,  [1]   (1945),  57-65. 

"Swedish-American  history."    ASM,  42  (Aug.  1948),  12,  29-30. 

"Two  nations  remember  New  Sweden."   ASM,  31  (Oct.  1937),  4-7. 


Heilborn,  Adele.   "Organizations  in  Sweden  concerned  with  American  rela- 
tions."  ASH,  2  (1945),  39-47. 

"Sweden -American  Foundation."   ASR,  27  (Dec.  1939),  344-348. 

Hedges,  James  B.  "The  colonization  work  of  the  Northern  Pacific  Railroad." 

MVHR,  13  (Dec.  1926),  309-342. 
Hedman,  Herbert  R.   "The  Swedish  Club  of  Chicago."   ASD,  pp.  175-80. 
Henschen,  Wm.  "Ett  minne  af  John  Ericsson."  PB,  13  (1913),  87-91. 
Hessby,  Robert.    "The  first  Swede  in  Texas,"   [S.  M.  Swenson.]    ASM,  28 
(Sept.  1934),  289-290. 

Hessby,  Sigfrid.   "The  greyhound  and  the  man."    [C.  Eric  Wickman.]    ASM, 
28  (Aug.  1934),  251-253. 

Holt,  Andrew.    "Characteristics  of  the  early  Swedish  settlers  in  Minnesota," 

SHS,  7  (1921-22),  7-23. 
Homey,  Nils.   "Sverige  och  Amerika."    US,  5  (no.  1,  1943),  26-27. 
Hoving,  Johannes.    "Den  svenska  kolonisationen  i  Amerika  och  dess  bety- 

delse  for  Amerika  och  Sverige."   US,  1  (no.  3,  1939),  6-8;   (no.  4,  1939), 

9-11;  2   (no.  1,  1940),  20;   (no.  2,  1940),  15-17. 

"Svenska  stordad  i  Amerika."   US,  11   (no.  1,  1949),  24-27. 

"Historical  Societies."  ASH,  1  (1943),  33-36. 

"A  hundred  years  of  the  propeller."   ASM,  31  (March  1937),  4-5. 
Husband,  Joseph.    "John  Ericsson."    AA,  pp.  17-36.    Boston.    [1920]  17-36. 
Ingvall,  A.    "Svenska  sport-  och  atletforeningen  i  Brooklyn,  N.  Y."    VK,  5 

(July  1901),  346-348. 
"Interesting  people — John  Lind."    ASR,  1  (Nov.  1913),  15. 
"Interesting  people— John  S.  Swensson."    ASR,  3  (Nov. -Dec.  1915),  346-348. 
Jacobson,  Albert  N.    "The  Vasa  Order  of  America."    ASM,  28   (Aug.  1934), 

251-253. 
Jarlson,  A.    "Swedish  emigrant's  story."    IND,  55  (Jan.  8.  1903),  88-93. 
"John  Ericsson's  genius."    ASM,  28  (March  1934),  78-79,  88. 

64 


Johnson,  Alexander  J.    "Forenta  Staternas  styrelse  form,  politiska  partier 
och  svensk-amerkanernas  stallning  till  dem."   SVIA,  v.  2,  297-301. 

Johnson,  Amandus.   "Sons  and  daughters  of  Sweden."   ASR,  21  (June  1933), 
338-340. 

Johnson,  E.  F.    "Svenska   ingeniorsforeningen  i  Forenta  Staterna."    VK,  1 
(Jan.  1897),  20-25. 

Johnson,  Erick  H.    "Barndomsminnen  fran  nybyggaretiden  i  norra  Wiscon- 
sin."  VK,  4  (April  1900),  203-211. 

"En  framtidsman  af  nordisk   stam.    Irvine   L.   Lenroot."    VK,   12 

(Nov.  1908),  561-562. 

"Sa  var  det  i  borjan.   Hagkomster  fran  den  svenska  nybyggartiden 

i  Wisconsin."  PB,  12  (1912),  92-102. 

"Stufbitar  ur  minnets  packbod."    VK,  12   (Dec.  1908),  608-609;  13, 


(1909),  38-39,  94-96,  150-151. 

Johnson,  E.  Gustav.   "An  exiled  Swedish  novelist  and  the  Civil  War."   JIHS, 
41  (June  1948),  146-158. 

"Newberry  was  not  of  Swedish  descent."    SP,  2   (Summer  1951), 

24-27. 

"Place  names  and  Swedish  pioneers."    BAIS,  5   (Sept.  1950),  7-12. 

"The  study  of  American  place-names  of  Swedish  origin."    CQ,  6 


(Nov.   1946),  235-250. 
Johnson,  Harald.    "John  Ericsson."    SVS,  v.  2,  pp.  71-82. 

[Johnson,  John  Albert].    "John  Albert  Johnson,  governor  of   Minnesota." 

[Necrology.]    SHS,  (1909-10),  74-76. 
Johnson,  Owen.  "Civilization,  to  John  Ericsson,  debtor."   RD,  48  (Feb.  1946), 

101-106. 

Johnson,  Rolf.    "The  diary  of  Rolf  Johnson,  a  pioneer  of  Phelps  County, 
Neb."    (Clipping  from  The  Holdrege  Citizen.) 

Johnson,  Vilas.   "A  challenge  to  Americans  of  Swedish  background."   SP,  1 
(July  1950) ,  3-8. 

Kalijarvi,    Thorsten.     "The    stone    cutters    of    Concord,    New    Hampshire." 
ASHM,  (1946),  76-84. 

Kampe,  Alfred.    "Bland  utvandrare  och  amerikaner."    VS   (1913),  169-191. 

Kastrup,  Allan.   "The  making  of  Sweden."  SIA,  pp.  105-122. 

Kjellgren,   Theodor.    "De   forsta   svenskarna   i   Minnesota."    PB,    4    (1904), 
91-100. 

Kjellstrom,  Erik  T.  H.    "Minneapolis  'Swede's  Day'  draws  forty  thousand." 
ASM,  35  (Aug.  1941),  9,  28-30. 

Knittel,  Barbara  Elrod.    "Peter  Norbeck,  pioneer  and  legislator."    ASM,  30 
(Oct.  1936),  14-15,  37-38. 

Kock,  P.   "Scandinavian  or  American."   SC,  1  (June  1884),  228-229. 

Lamm,  Olof  H.  "Svenska  societeten  i  New  York."  AS,  23  (Feb.  1,  1936),  3-5. 

65 


Landelius,  Otto  R.  "Benjamin  Owen.  En  av  August  Strindberg's  kusiner 
som  emigrerade  till  Amerika  .  .  ."   VS,  14  (Oct.  1952),  10-11,  33. 

Larsen,  J.  Arthur.  "The  rise  of  labor  in  Minnesota."  MAW,  33  (August 
1933),  23-24. 

Larson,  Cedric.   "Arthur  W.  Walander."   BASI,  5  (June  1951),  3-11. 

"The  smorgasbord  invades  America."  BASI,  6  (Winter  1951),  12-17. 

Larsson,  Adolf.    En  brannande  fraga  for  Amerikas  folk  och  dess  framtid. 

Chicago,  111.,  1897. 
Lawson,   Evald   Benjamin.     "The   Swedish   Pioneer   Centennial."    ASR,    36 

(Dec.  1948),  305-312. 
Lawson,  Victor  E.   "The  first  settlements  in  the  Kandiyohi  Region  and  their 

fate  in  the  Indian  outbreak."    SHS,  (1924-25),  19-44. 
Leach,    Henry    Goddard.     "American-Scandinavian    Foundation."     ER,    65 

(Jan.  1923),  22-27. 

"The  Swedes  are  coming."    ASR,  26  (June  1938),  103. 

Liljencrantz,  Johan.   "Inventors."   SIA,  pp.  382-406. 

"A  Swedish-American  inventor."    [Ernest  Alexanderson.]    ASR,  14 

(April  1926),  229. 

Lind,  John.    "De   bada   politiska   partiernas   uppkomst."     SVIA,   v.   2,   pp. 

293-296. 
Lindahl,    Joshua.     "En    akta   svensk-amerikan.     Minnesteckning    ofver    dr. 

C.  J.  Stille.    PB,  6   (1906),  114-120. 
Lindahl,  Mac.   "Blod,  kott  och  olja."   US,  12  (No.  1,  1950),  18-19,  30. 
Linden,  G.  A.   "Trans-Mississippi  och  internationella  utstallningen  i  Omaha 

och  svenskarnes  deltagande  deruti."   VK,  2  (Sept.  1898),  455-463. 
Linden,  John  A.  "Fifty  years  of  fraternalism."  ASM,  35  (Feb.  1941),  7,  26-27. 
Linder,  O.  A.   "Bemarkta  svenskar  i  Amerika."    [John  E.  Ericson.]    VK,  13 

(Mar.  1909),  126-128;    [Josua  Lindahl.]   13   (June  1909),  295-297;    [Gus 

Higgins.]  13  (July  1909),  340-343. 

"Svenska  foreningarnes  i  Chicago  alderdomshem."    [Evanston,  111.] 

VK,  13  (Oct.  1909),  514-516. 

"Svenska  nationalforbundet  i  Chicago.    VK,  13   (April  1909),  188- 


191. 
Lindgren,  Raymond  E.    "The  Swedes  come  to  Utah."    ASHF,  (1949),  13-27. 
Lindvall,  C.  A.   "Vart  stora  kulturarv."   SHS,  6  (1916-17),  11-20. 
Littell,  Robert.    "Magnus  at  home."    [Magnus  Johnson.]    NR,  35    (Aug.  1, 

1923),  250-252. 
Lofgren,  Svante.    "The  early  Swedish  settlements  of  Washington."    ASHF, 

(1946),  26-30. 

"Memories  of  a  pioneer."    BAIS,  1  (July-Sept.  1946),  13-16. 

"En  smalanning  i  Savannah."   US,  10  (no.  1,  1948),  (14-17. 

"Some  Swedish  business  pioneers  in  Washington."  [Nels  B.  Nel- 
son, Andrew  J.  Charleston,  Charles  R.  Wilson,  August  Lovegren,  Carl 
Magnus  Hanson,  Fred  Johnson,  etc.]    ASHF,  (1947),  55-66. 

Lund,  Inez.    "Hemmet  i  Svensk-Amerika."    SVIA,  v.  2,  pp.  49-55. 

66 


[Lundbeck,  G.  Hilmer].  "G.  Hilmer  Lundbeck.  In  memoriam."  ASM,  43 
(July  1949),  11,  19. 

Lusch,  Fritz.  "Sverige  och  svenskheten."   AS,  24  (Aug.  1937),  6-7. 

M.  E.  F.  "An  old-fashioned  Christmas."  ASM,  31  (Dec.  1937),  8-9. 

Main,  A.  K.  "Thure  Kumlien,  Koshkonong  naturalist."  WMH,  27  (Sept- 
March  1944),  17-39,  194-220,  321-343. 

Malm,  G.  N.  "En  sommardag  pa  Jan  Swansons  farm."   SVIA,  v.  2,  pp.  28-37. 

"Ett  gammalt  brev."    BF,   (1920-1921),  34-43. 

Maxwell,  Florence  C.  "Codfish  and  smorgasbord."   CSM,  (Nov.  6,  1948) . 
McDowell,  F.  H.  B.    "The  newer  Scandinavia."    SC,  3    (May-June  1886), 

147-180. 
Moberg,  Gosta.  "Landsman  i  forskingringen."  US,  12  (April  1950) ,  16-19,  32. 
Moehlman,  Arthur  Henry.    "The  Red  River  of  the  North."    GGR,  25   (Jan. 

1935),  79-91. 
Moller,  Yngve.   "Svenska  glimtar  fran  Amerika."   US,  9  (no.  8,  1947),  20-21, 

35. 
Morris,  Ira  Nelson.    "Swedish -American  interchange."    ASR,  7    (Sept.-Oct. 

1919),  370-371. 
Myrdal,  Alva  and  Gunnar.    "Sweden's  profile  in  America."    ASHF,   (1944), 

1-27. 
Nelson,  Helge.  "Gustaf  Unonius,  Pine  Lake-kolonien  och  Wisconsins  svenska 

befolkning."    SGA,  (1941). 

"Lindsborgsbygden.  En  svenskbygd  pa  Kansas  prarier."  HS,  (1922) . 

"Minnesotas  bebyggande.  Med  sarskild  hansyn  till  svenskars,  norr- 

mans  och  tyskars  andel  i  densamma."  SGA,  (1936) . 

"Nagra  svenskbygder  i  Nordamerika."  SGSA,  (1925). 

"Svensk  bosattning  i  Chicago  och  norra  Illinois."   SGA,  (1940) . 

"Svensk    nybyggarverksamhet    i    Nebraska    och    Dakotastaterna." 


SGA,  (1937). 

"Svenskar  och  svenskbygder  i  Forenta  Staterna."    AH,  (1925). 

"Svenskarne  och  svenskbygder  i  Nordamerika.    Deras  geografiska 

utbredning."  SVIA,  v.  1,  pp.  346-361. 

"Svenskar  och  svenskbygder  i  Texas."  SGA,  (1939) . 

"Svenskarnas  utbredning  i  Nordamerika."    NOST,  4    (no.  1,  1925). 


Nelson,  Herman  G.   "Builder  of  bridges."    [Ruben  N.  Bergendoff.]    ASM,  34 
(Aug.  1940),  6-7. 

"Lindberg  and  his  town  parks."    [Gustaf  Alfred  Lindberg.]    ASM, 

35  (April  1941),  8,  30. 

"Oldest  chief  of  police."     [August  E.   Bargren.]     ASM,   33    (Jan. 


1939),  14-15,35,37-38. 

"Rockford  in  Illinois  retains  its  Swedish  flavor."    ASM,  42    (June 

1948),  43-47,  112-113. 

"Sales  by  the  million."    [Nils  F.  Testor.]    ASM,  38  (June  1944) ,  11, 

13,  28-29. 

67 


"State  senator  Benson  of  Illinois."    [Arnold  P.  Benson.]    ASM,  35 

(June  1941) ,  8-9,  28-29. 

"The  Swedes  in  Rockford."  ASD,  pp.  144-159. 

"Swedish-American   boys   in   blue.    Reminiscences   from  the   Civil 

war."   PB,  8   (1908),  170-188. 

"A  Swedish  museum  in  Rockford,  Illinois."    BAIS,  1    (Jan.  1945), 


4-5. 

"Swedish  settlers  in  Rockford."    SPHQ,  3   (Oct.  1952),  91-103. 


[Nelson,   Olof  Ferdinand].    [Member  of  Asgood   Company,  photoengravers 
and  electrotypers.]    [Necrology.]    SHS,  (1911-1913),  77-78. 

Ness,  George  T.    "Swedish-born  graduates  of  U.  S.  Military  Academy  at 
West  Point."  ASM,  40  (Dec.  1946) ,  22,  39-42. 

Nilsson,  Victor.    "En  svensk  bank  och  en  svensk  bankir.    Nils  O.  Werner." 
VK,  6  (Jan.  1902),  22-26. 

"Guvernor  John  A.  Johnson.   Minnesotas  andre  svenske  guvernor." 

PB,  6  (1906),  202-213. 

"John  Lind.   Biografi."  VK,  1  (Jan.  1897) ,  34-36. 


Norberg,  Gard  E.  "Stout-hearted  Swedes  take  root  in  Maine."  ASM,  42 
(Dec.  1948),  22-23,  37-40. 

Nordell,  Elfreda.   "In  the  melting  pot."   CG,  3  (Winter  1943),  95-100. 

"Shall  we  go  back."  CG,  4  (Summer  1944) ,  94-98. 

Nordkvist,  Gust.  Harald.   "Foreningsvasendet."   SVIA,  v.  2,  pp.  270-290. 

"Medel  for  samarbete  mellan  Sverige  och  Svensk-Amerika."  Fore- 
drag  hallet  infor  Svensk-amerikanska  sallskapet  i  Stockholm  a  restau- 
rant Gillet  den  26  januari  1921.  Stockholm,  1921.  Svensk-Amerikanska 
sallskapet.   Fran  dess  forhandlingar.   No.  4. 

Norelius,  E.  "Den  forsta  svenska  invandringen  till  Forenta  Staterna."   PB,  1 

(1900),  37-49. 
Norman,  C.  G.  "Svenskarne  i  Worcester."  PB,  4  (1904),  12-27. 
Nute,  Grace  Lee.  "Lindbergh  colony."  MH,  20  (Sept.  1939) ,  243-258. 
Nyberg,  H.  S.   "Emigrationen  och  Vilhelm  Lundstroms  stora  tanke."   AS,  35 

(Aug.  1948) ,  2-7. 
Nyvall,  David.    "Svenska  historiska  sallskapet."    SHS,  5    (1914-15),  7-12. 

"Den  svenska  national  karaktaren  och  dess  amerikanisering."  PB,  3 

(1903),  282-292. 

Oleen,  Courtney  N.   "Important  events  in  Swedish  America."    VR,  22  (1928), 

105-122. 
Olson,   Alexander.    "Svenska   foreningar   i   San   Francisco."    VK,    12    (Dec. 

1908),  605-607. 
Olson,  Ernst  W.    "Grodor  ur  Svartbacken."   BF,  (1920-21),  111-131. 

"Svenska  historiska  sallskapet  i  Chicago."  ARF,  (1912),  87-93. 

"Svenskarna  som  medborgare."   SVIA,  v.  2,  pp.  302-318. 

Olsson,  Jons.  "A  journey  to  the  United  States  of  America  in  1881."  BAIS,  1 
(Apr.-Sept.  1945),  27-31;  1  (Jan. -Mar.  1946),  17-20. 

68 


Olsson,  Nils  William.   "A  century  of  Swedish  immigration."   ASH,  3  (1948) , 
111-119. 

"Pioneer  centennial  to   be   observed   throughout  Middle   West  in 


1948."    ASM,  41    (Nov.  1947),  6-7,  38. 

"Swedish  enlistments  in  the  U.  S.  Army  before  1851."    SPHQ,  1 

(Winter  1951),  3-13;  1  (Spring  1951),  17-38. 

"Swedish  settlers   in  Minnesota   and   the  U.   S.   Census   of   1850." 


BAIS,  1  (July-Sept.  1946) ,  11-12. 

"Was  Napoleon  Berger  the  first  Swedish  journalist  in  America?' 


SPHQ,  3  (Winter  1952),  19-29. 
Osborn,  Joseph  Esbjorn.   "Personal  memories  of  Brig.-Gen.  C.  J.  Stolbrand." 

SHS,  (1909-10),  5-17. 
Osborne,  John  Ball.    "The  personal  side  of  Swedish-American  relations." 

[Jenny  Lind,  Fredrika  Bremer,  John  Ericsson.]    ASR,  19   (Feb.  1931), 

91-97. 
Palmgren,  Carl.  "Svensk  besok  och  minnesfester."  SVIA,  v.  2,  pp.  319-323. 
Persson,  Malte.  "Overste  Mattson."  OEA,  (1932) . 
Peterson,  Bernard.    "Manufacturers."   SIA,  pp.  551-571. 

"Swedish  pioneers  in  the  greater  Boston  area."    SP,  2    (Summer 

1951),  15-23. 

Peterson,  C.  F.    "Blickar  mellan  kulisserna  i  Chicagos  svenska  verld  for  35 

ar  sedan."   VK,  5  (Jan.  1901),  34-36. 
■  "Det  svenska  samvetet   i  den   amerikanska  politiken.    Ocksa   ett 

politiskt  studium."  VK,  3  (Feb.  1899) ,  64-67. 

"Nagra  svenska  Chicago  minnen."  VK,  3  (May  1899) ,  232-234. 

"The   State    Bank    of    Chicago.    En   svensk-norsk    affar."     VK,    5 


(March  1901),  131-134. 
Peterson,  Conrad.  "Letters  from  pioneer  days."  SHS,  (1923-24) ,  45-117. 

"1905-1930.  Twenty-five  years  of  the  Swedish  Historical  Society  of 

America.  A  retrospect."  SAHB,  2  (March  1930) ,  5-19. 

Peterson,  Elmer  T.   "A  Viking  heard  aloha."    [W.  Matson.]    ASM,  32  (April 
1938),  9-11. 

"Importance  of  the  farm  front."  ASM,  37  (May  1943) ,  9-10,  23-24. 

Peterson,  Fran.  "Early  days  on  Minnesota  prairies."  SHS,  8  (1922-1923)  7-25. 
Peterson,   Gus.    "Gus   Peterson — Columbia  wrestling   coach  for  33   years." 

ASM,  43  (Feb.  1949),  19,  23. 
Posey,  Chessley  J.   "The  influence  of  geographic  factors  in  the  development 

of  Minnesota."  MHB,  2  (August  1918),  443-453. 
Qualey,  Carlton  C.    "Pioneer  Scandinavian  settlement  in  Michigan."    MHM, 

24  (Autumn  1940),  435-450. 
Quist,  P.  P.   "Recollections  of  an  immigrant  of  1865."   SAHB,  4  (Sept.  1931) , 

7-19. 

"Recollections  from  children  and  pioneer  days."    BAIS,  1   (April- 
June  1946) ,  21-31. 

Ranson,  Harry.  "Svante  Palm  and  his  books."   ASHF,  (1949),  28-36. 

69 


Ravndal,  Gabriel  B.  "The  Scandinavian  pioneers  of  South  Dakota."  SDHC, 
12  (1924),  297-330. 

Rice,  Robert.  "Svenskamerikanen  Gunnar  Hagstrom."  US,  12  (No.  7-8, 
1950),  17-21. 

Ringius,  Carl.  "Swedish  contributions  to  Connecticut's  industrial  develop- 
ment." ASM,  29  (July  1935),  9-11,  47-49. 

Rinman,  Thorsten.   "Bron  over  havet."   SVIA,  2,  pp.  351-356. 

Robinson,  Mary  V.  "Mary  Anderson."  ASM,  29  (Aug.  1935) ,  9-11. 

Ralph,  Julian.  "Our  Swedish  fellow-citizens."  HW,  40  (April  25,  1896) ,  419, 
422. 

Rooth,  Gerhard  T.  "New  England  midsummer  festival."  [Vasa  Order.] 
ASM,  35  (July  1941),  12-13. 

Rosenquist,  Carl  M.  "Linguistic  changes  in  acculturation  of  the  Swedes  of 
Texas."  SSR,  16  (Jan.  1932),  221-31. 

"The  Swedes  of  Texas."  ASHF,  (1945),  16-29. 

Ross,  Edward  Alsworth.  "Scandinavian-American  solidarity."  OU,  90  (Dec. 
19,  1908),  854-855. 

"Scandinavian  culture   in  the  United  States."    Dial,  54    (Jan.   16, 

1913),  35-36. 

"The  Scandinavians  in  America."   CE,  88  (June  1914) ,  291-298. 


Ryden,  George  H.  "The  colony  of  New  Sweden."  MSA,  (1938). 

"The  Delaware  Swedish-American  tercentenary."   MC,   (1938),  23- 

39. 

"How  the  Monitor  helped  the  army."  ASM,  31  (March  1937) ,  6-9. 

"Story  of  New  Sweden."  ASR,  26  (March  1938),  22-38. 


(March,  1938)  26:22-38. 
Rydh,  Hanna.   "Hos  Jamestowns  svenskar."   US,  12  (no.  9,  1950),  10-13. 
Rylander,  Andrew.   "Detroit  Swedes  in  tune  with  melody  of  motors."   ASM, 

42  (June  1948),  67-69. 
S.  C.  H.   "Some  traits  that  should  be  dropped  or  adopted  as  Scandinavians 

become  Americanized."  VR,  (1918),  37-42. 
S.  L.   "Svenska  museet  i  Philadelphia."    US,  9   (no.  4,  1947),  22-23. 
Sahlin,  Nils  G.  "Soldiers  and  sailors."  SIA,  pp.  506-531. 
Sandstrom,  Harry  G.  "This  was  America  when  John  Ericsson  came."   ASM, 

33  (Nov.  1939),  4-6,  31-34. 
"Scandinavians  in  Minnesota  state  politics."  SC,  3  (Feb.  1886),  29-30. 
Schell,   Herbert   S.     "Official    immigration    activities    of   Dakota    territory." 

NDHQ,  7  (Oct.  1932),  5-24. 
Schon,  Anders.  "De  forste  svenskarne  i  Chicago."  VR,  (1903),  133-144. 

"De  forsta  svenskarne  i  Kansas."   PB,  12  (1912),  165-199. 

"Den  nye  svenske  ministern  till  Forenta  Staterna."    PB,  8   (1908), 

146-153. 

"Femtioarsminnet  af  'Monitors'  och  'Merrimacs'  strid.    Dess  firande 


skildrat."  PB,  13  (1913),  152-177. 

"Svante  Palm."  PB,  1  (1900),  181-189. 


70 


"Svensk-Amerikas  storste  son.    Nagra  ord  till  guvernor  John  A. 

Johnsons  minne."  PB,  10  (1910),  190-211. 

Seabrook,  William.   "Imported  Americans."    AME,  125   (March  1937),  16-17, 

90-95. 
Shaw,  Albert.    "Scandinavians  in  the  United  States."    CHA,  8   (Dec.  1887), 

169-172. 
Shepherd,  Grace  S.  "Francis  J.  Plym."  ASM,  29  (Dec.  1935),  10-12. 
Shirley,  Ruth  Carlson.  "The  Swedish  pioneers  of  northeastern  Connecticut." 

ASHF,  (1952),  28-34. 
Skarstedt,  Ernst.    "En  akta  svensk-amerikanska.    Ett  reseminne."    VK,  10 

(Dec.  1906),  629-630. 

"Bland  landsman  i  den  yttersta  nordvastern."  PB,  6  (1906) ,  93-110. 

"En  misskand  samhallsdanare."  PB,  8  (1908),  124-137. 

"Seattle  utstallningen  och  vart  folks  andel  daruti."   PB,  10  (1910) , 

116-136. 

"En  skicklig  Amerika  bedomare."     [Emil  Kleen.]    PB,   4    (1904), 


506-514. 

"Skrackdagarna  i  San  Francisco.    Efter  egen  och  andras  erfaren- 

heter."  PB,  7  (1907) ,  124-147. 

"Svenska  dagen  pa  utstallningen  i  Seattle."  VK,  13  (1909) ,  456-459. 

"Svenskarna  som  fruktodlare."   SVIA,  v.  2,  pp.  62-68. 

"Svenskt  nybyggareliv  i  Amerika."  SVIA,  v.  1,  pp.  319-335. 


Smith,  Guy  Harold.   "Notes  on  the  distribution  of  the  foreign-born  Scandi- 
navians in  Wisconsin  in  1905."  WMH,  14  (June  1931),  419-436. 

"The  populating  of  Wisconsin."  GGR,  18  (July  1928) ,  402-408. 

Smith,  William  Carlson.  "The  Swedes  of  Oregon."  ASHM,  (1946),  31-60. 
Solomon,  Gladys.    "M.  D.  to  millions  of  Americans."    [Dr.  Paul  Budd  Mag- 

nuson.]   ASM,  43  (March  1949) ,  11,  25-27. 
Spangberg,  Ernst  A.  "Hum  manga  aro  vi?"  BF,  (1920-1921),  163-165. 
Stamline,  J.  A.  "De  forsta  skandinaverna  i  Texas."  PB,  3  (1903),  170-180. 
Stengard,  Axel  H.    "Svenskarna  som  farmare  i  Amerika."    SVIA,  v.  2,  pp. 

11-17. 

Stephenson,  George  M.  "Attitude  of  Swedish- Americans  toward  World  War." 
MVHP,  10  (part  1,  1918-19) ,  79-94. 

"Documents  Relating  to  Peter  Cassel  and  the  Settlement  at  New 

Sweden,  Iowa."  SAHB,  2  (Feb.  1929),  1-82. 

"Hemlandet  letters."    SHS,    (1922-23),  56-152. 

"Isidor  Kjellberg:   crusader."   SAHB,  2  (Aug.  1929),  31-51. 

"Pioneering  in  Wisconsin  a  century  ago."  ASM,  35  (Nov.  1941) ,  6-8. 

"Sidelights  on  the  history  of  the  Swedes  in  the  St.  Croix  Valley." 

MH,  17  (Dec.  1936) ,  396-405. 

"The  stormy  years  of  the  Swedish  colony  in  Chicago  before  the 

great  fire."  ISHS,  36  (1929),  166-184. 

'When  America  was  the  land  of  Canaan."    MH,  10    (Sept.  1929), 


237-260. 

71 


Stockenstrom,  Carl.    "Swedish  non-sectarian  organizations."    ASD,  pp.  93- 

107. 
Stomberg,  Andrew  A.  "Helps  direct  American  operations  in  Europe."    [Brig. 

Gen.  John  E.  Dahlquist.]   ASM,  36  (Sept.  1942),  5,  29-30. 

"Pioneers  of  the  Northwest."  SIA,  pp.  92-106. 

Sundelius,  Gustaf.  "Businessmen."  SIA,  pp.  572-583. 

Sundstrom,  C.  H.  "Bland  skogsafverkare."  VR,  (1904),  49-59. 

"Svenska  foretag  i  Amerika.    Svenska  handelskammaren  i  New  York."   VK, 
13  (Jan.  1909),  34-37. 

Swan,  Gustaf  N.   "En  bortglomd  svensk-amerikan.   Gustaf  Clemens  Hebbe." 

PB,  10  (1910),  71-81. 
"Nybygget  vid  Tallsjon.    Den  forsta  svenska  koloni  i  nordvastra 

Amerika,  och  huru  den  kom  till."  PB,  5  (1905),  29-40. 

"Staten  Iowas  forsta  svenskar."  SHS,  9  (1923-24),  35-44. 


Swan,  Marshall  W.  S.   "A  California  pioneer:  John  Brown."   ASHF,  (1948). 

53-63. 
Swanson,  Emil.   "The  Swedes  in  Moline."  ASD,  pp.  135-143. 

Swanson,  W.  Raymond.   "Chairs  for  the  nine  old  men."    [Jamestown-Royal 
Upholstery  Corp.]    ASM,  31  (April  1937),  17-18,  38. 

Swanson,  Roy  W.    "Distinguished  in  war,  literature,  and  languages."    [Aug. 
Hjalmar  Edgren.]    ASM,  34  (Nov.  1940),  7-8,  28. 

"Iowa  of  the  early  seventies  as  seen  by  a  Swedish  traveller."   [Hugo 

Nisbeth.]    IJ,  27  (Oct.  1929),  564-581. 

"The  making  of  a  general."    [Brig.  Gen  Henning  Linden.]    ASM,  38 


(Jan.  1944),  10,  24-25. 

"Minnesota  as  seen  by  travelers."    [Hugo  Nisbeth.]    MH,  8   (Dec. 

1927),  386-421. 

"Minnesota's  new  governor  pledges  human  advancement."    [Luther 


Wallace  Youngdahl.]   ASM,  41  (March  1947),  13,  30-31. 

"Our  predecessors."    SP,  1  (July  1950) ,  12-21. 

"Puffed  rice."     [Alexander  P.  Anderson.]    ASM,  35    (Feb.   1941), 

11-13,  29-30. 

"Scandinavian  place-names  in  the  American  Danelaw."    SHSB,  2 


(Aug.  1929),  5-17. 

"The  Swedes  and  the  new  history."   SHSB,  3  (Sept.  1930),  7-21. 

"Ten  times  Minnesota's  secretary."    [Mike  Holm.]    ASM,  34   (May 


1940),  11-12,  31-33. 
Swanson,  Seegar.    "He  downed  21  Zeros."    [Capt.  Richard  Bong.]    ASM,  38 

(Feb.  1944),  9-10,30. 
"Swedish  Chamber  of  Commerce.  Editorial."  ASR,  1  (Sept,  1913) ,  21. 
"The  Swedish  people  of  Cadillac."    Evening  News,  Cadillac,  Mich.,    (March 

20-26,  1912) . 
"Swedish  stock  in  the  United  States."  ASH,  [1]   (1943),  89. 
"Swedish  stock  in  the  United  States."   ASH,  3  (1948),  120-125. 

72 


Swensson,  Carl.  "John  Ericssons  monument  i  Filipstad,  Vermland."  VK,  3 
(Jan.  1899),  3-13. 

"Den  svensk-amerikanska  julen."  VK,  2  (Dec.  1898),  616-618. 

"Takes  a  birthday  in  his  stride."    [G.  Hilmer  Lundbeck.]    ASM,  34   (Sept. 

1940),  8,  22-23. 
Thomas,  William  W.,  Jr.    "The  Swedish  citizens  of  America.    Their  history 
and  value  to  the  United  States.  Portrayed  in  the  oration  by  Hon.  W.  W. 
Thomas,  Jr.  at  the  250th  anniversary  of  the  founding  of  Sweden."  Port- 
land Daily  Press,  (Sept.  15,  1888). 

"Mainekolonien  nya  Sveriges  historia."    SVIA,  v.  1,  pp.  336-345. 

Thornberg,  E.  H.    "Svensk-amerikanarne  och  Sverige."    ST,  3   (1913),  325- 

334. 
"Three  hundred  years  of  Scandinavian  industry."    The  Fox  Valley  Mirror, 

(Oct.  2,  1938). 
Torell,  Eleanor  E.  "Family  changes  in  three  generations  of  Swedes."   ASHF, 

(1946),  61-75. 
Townsend,  Robert  Swan.   "The  colonization  of  New  Sweden,  Maine."   ASM, 

28  (May  1934) ,  145-146. 
Trimble,  Harry  C.    "Otto  Folin.    A  life  work  in  biochemistry."    ASM,  29 

(Sept.  1935),  9-11. 
Turnwall,  Philip.   "So  they  can  live  again."  ASM,  42  (Oct.  1948),  8-9,  27-28. 
"The  two  Lundbecks  and  the  Swedish-American  line."  ASM,  38  (Feb.  1944) , 

11,  25-26. 
Upvall,  Axel  J.   "Den  svenska  kulturen  i  Amerika  till  mitten  av  1800  talet." 

SVIA,  v.  1,  pp.  154-165. 

Usum,  J.  and  R.  H.  "Minority  group  pattern  in  prairie  society."  AJS,  50 
(March  1945),  377-385. 

Varg,  Paul  A.  "Maximilian  freiherr  Scheie  de  Vere."  SP,  1  (Oct.  1950) ,  13- 
17. 

Wald,  Arthur,  and  Albin  Widen.  "National  organizations  in  the  United 
States."  ASH,  [1]  (1943),  10-36. 

Waseurtz  af  Sandels,  G.  M.  "The  King's  orphan  manuscript."  QSCP,  3 
(June  1926),  58-96. 

[Werner,  Nils  O.].  Nils  O.  Werner,  president  of  Scandinavian- American  Na- 
tional Bank.   [Necrology.]   SHS,  3  (1909-10),  76-77. 

Westerberg,  Hedvig.   "Chicagos  vildmark."   BF,  (1920-21),  13-22. 

Westerberg,  Wesley.  "Early  Swedish  Methodists  in  Illinois."  SP,  1  (Oct. 
1950),  3-8. 

Westerlund,  Peter.  "Reminiscences  of  a  trip  to  Pikes  Peak  and  down  the 
Rio  Grande  in  the  year  1859,  at  the  time  of  the  Pikes  Peak  gold  craze." 
SHS,  2  (1908),  34-71. 

Wetterstrom,  Ingrid.  "Looking  into  grandpa's  past."  ASM,  33  (April  1939), 
15-19,  34. 

Widen,  Albin.  "Frisk  framatsanda,  nya  uppslag  pragla  kulturarbetet  i 
Minneapolis."  AS,  33  (Oct.  1946),  3,  21. 

73 


"Hyggligheten  i  kvadrat."  AS,  36  (June  1949) ,  3-7. 

"Monument  of  a  cultural  heritage."  ASR,  31  (March  1943),  50-55. 

"Organizations    in    Sweden    concerned   with    American    relations.' 


ASH,  [1]   (1943),  28-29. 

"Svensk-amerikansk  hembygdsrorelse."    BN,   (1941). 

"Svensk  historia  i  Amerika."  US,  12  (No.  12,  1950),  37-42. 

"Swedish  agencies  in  United  States."    ASH,  1    (1943),  30-32. 


Widmark,  Laurence  E.   "Engineers."  SIA,  pp.  407-415. 

Wieden,  Clifford  and  Marguerite.  "The  beginnings  of  a  New  Sweden  in 
Maine."   ASHM,  (1946),  85-96. 

W[ilhelmson],  N.  "Nagra  drag  ur  den  svensk-amerikanska  pressens  his- 
toria." AS,  18  (Sept.  29,  1931),  8-11. 

Wisby,  Hrolf.  "The  Scandinavian-  American:  his  status."  NAR,  183  (Aug. 
1906),  213-223. 

Witting,  A.  G.  "Delaware  svenskarnas  attlingar  och  efterfoljare."  VR, 
(1927),  92-100. 

"Positiv  eller  negativsvenskhet."  AS,  26  (Feb.  1,  1939) ,  4-5. 

Youngquist,  Aaron  G.  "Lawyers."  SIA,  pp.  315-320. 

Zetterstrand,  E.  A.  "John  Ericsson.  En  karakteristik  af  den  store  uppfin- 
naren."  PB,  4  (1904),  45-58. 


74 


Chapter  Six 


CHURCH  AND  EDUCATION 

The  historian  who  concerns  himself  with  the  Middle  Ages  and  Europe 
prior  to  1648  finds  it  impossible  to  ignore  the  role  of  the  church  in  the 
lives  of  men.  Historians  interested  in  Europe  since  1648  or  in  American 
history  relegate  the  role  of  the  church  to  a  place  of  little  importance  or  ig- 
nore it  entirely.  A  study  of  immigration  to  America  and  the  immigrants  in 
America  raises  a  question  as  to  the  soundness  of  the  latter  approach  to 
history. 

The  religious  cause  might  not  have  been  the  most  important  one  for 
emigration  from  Europe,  but  it  is  one  that  touches  the  deepest  emotions.  It 
is  perhaps  true  that  more  than  half  of  the  Swedish  immigrants  did  not 
affiliate  themselves  with  a  church  organization,  and,  except  for  that  small 
number  which  found  a  degree  of  satisfaction  in  secular  fraternal  organiza- 
tions in  combating  loneliness,  these  immigrants  soon  lost  their  identity.  As 
individuals  they  might  well  have  made  many  important  contributions.  Later 
some  perhaps  joined  an  "American"  church  in  order  to  satisfy  either  a 
spiritual  or  social  need,  but  they  left  no  impressive  records  accessible  to  the 
historian.  Their  story  might  be  found  in  the  materials  listed  under  the  sub- 
division of  life  of  the  immigrant  in  general.  But  it  would  be  true  to  say 
that  the  shadow  of  the  Cross  extends  also  to  this  material.  The  larger  gen- 
eral works  on  the  Swedes  in  America  contain  chapters  on  the  church  and 
its  special  institutions.  Swedish  clergymen  who  visited  America  were,  of 
course,  more  interested  in  the  immigrant  church  than  laymen  were,  but 
even  laymen  give  considerable  attention  to  the  church  in  their  "America 
books."  The  impact  of  religion  upon  the  life  of  the  immigrants  made  itself 
felt  in  almost  every  endeavor  and  not  least  in  art,  music,  and  literature.  The 
secular  organizations  were  numerous  and  met  a  distinct  social  and  perhaps 
even  a  cultural  need,  but  they  flourished  only  as  long  as  new  immigrants 
provided  them  with  an  impulse  for  existence.  World  War  I,  improved  social 
and  economic  conditions  in  Sweden,  and  the  immigration  laws  of  1921  and 
1924  provide  an  epitaph  upon  the  tombstones  of  many  secular  immigrant 
organizations.  The  inscription  is  a  brief  one,  and  the  record  of  their  exist- 
ence is  largely  to  be  found  in  the  secular  immigrant  press. 

The  church  survived  the  decline  in  immigration  and  blended  with  the 
general  American  scene.  Its  records  are  complex  and  rich  and  would  vir- 
tually dwarf  all  other  immigrant  sources,  if  these  were  listed  in  their  en- 
tirety. Here  would  be  the  records  of  local  congregations  numbering  several 
thousands,  but  unfortunately  these  have  not  been  cared  for  as  they  should 
have  been.  Most  of  the  local  churches  prepared  special  jubilee  publications 
for  important  anniversaries  such  as  the  tenth,  fifteenth,  twentieth,  twenty- 
fifth,  thirtieth,  fortieth,  fiftieth,  seventy-fifth,  etc.  A  few  of  the  congrega- 
tions have  recently  celebrated  their  hundredth  anniversary.  Thus  it  became 
evident  that  many  churches  have  published  no  less  than  four  or  five  anni- 

75 


versary  publications,  and  if  these  jubilee  pamphlets  or  booklets  were  to  be 
included  they  would  require  the  major  space  in  a  bibliography  of  several 
hundred  pages  longer  than  the  present  one.  Yet  they  do  provide  informa- 
tion on  the  arrival  of  the  first  Swedes  in  a  given  community  and  the  cir- 
cumstances under  which  a  church  was  founded.  Later  they  might  have 
some  genealogical  value,  if  local  church  records  have  been  destroyed. 

The  church  was  the  agency  through  which  the  immigrant  preserved  his 
identity  the  best.  It  offered  him  an  opportunity  to  associate  with  his  own 
countrymen,  to  worship  in  a  manner  which  was  familiar  to  him,  to  speak 
the  language  of  his  childhood,  and  to  preserve  customs  dear  to  his  heart. 
Struggling  churches  became  strong  and  prosperous  as  immigration  in- 
creased; schools  and  colleges  were  founded  to  meet  the  demands  for  teachers, 
organists,  and  preachers.  The  church  began  to  minister  to  the  old  as  old 
folks'  homes  were  established,  and  it  cared  for  its  sick  and  orphaned  through 
the  founding  of  hospitals  and  orphanages.  The  church  with  its  many  insti- 
tutions of  learning  and  mercy  is  by  far  the  mightiest  monument  built  by 
the  immigrants  in  America. 

Below  are  listed  sources  on  the  Augustana  Synod,  now  called  the  Augus- 
tana  Evangelical  Lutheran  Church;  the  Evangelical  Mission  Covenant  Church 
of  America,  earlier  known  as  the  Mission  Friends;  the  Swedish  Baptist 
Church  in  America,  now  called  the  Baptist  General  Conference  of  America; 
the  Swedish  Methodist  Church  in  America,  now  merged  with  the  Methodist 
Church;  the  Evangelical  Free  Church  and  other  smaller  church  groups. 
These  sources  include  materials  on  central,  regional,  and  local  organizations 
of  the  church  and  are  invaluable  in  the  study  of  the  distribution  of  the 
Swedes.  They  contain  literature  on  the  founding  of  settlements  and  pioneer 
life  in  which  biographical  material  often  looms  large.  Here  are  to  be  found 
personal  recollections,  accounts  testifying  of  deep  piety  and  a  belief  in  a 
supernatural  guidance  of  God  in  the  destiny  of  the  poor  immigrants  brought 
to  the  land  of  Canaan. 

The  average  historian  would  wish  to  focus  his  attention  upon  the  larger 
church  unit,  and  here  the  sources  are  rich  in  books,  pamphlets,  and  articles 
which  throw  an  invaluable  light  upon  almost  every  aspect  of  the  life  of  the 
immigrant.  These  should  by  all  means  be  supplemented  by  the  documentary 
sources  preserved  in  the  archives  of  the  various  colleges  and  seminaries 
founded  by  the  immigrants.  The  printed  minutes  are  unfortunately  not 
complete  for  all  the  larger  church  units,  but  there  is  no  lack  of  other 
sources  to  fill  in  possible  gaps.  One  of  the  most  important  sources  would 
be  the  chief  organs  of  the  various  denominations,  and  a  large  number  of 
articles  have  been  selected  from  these  without  thought  of  being  exhaustive. 

The  records  of  the  larger  educational  institutions  of  the  church  are  not 
readily  classified,  nor  are  most  of  them  too  pertinent  for  inclusion.  Among 
these  are  the  financial  records,  the  meetings  of  the  board,  the  faculty,  the 
records  of  the  registrar,  none  of  which  are  printed.  The  schools  and  col- 
leges, like  the  local  churches  and  the  larger  central  units,  had  their  jubilee 
publications,  and  these  are  most  often  important  historical  sources.  The 
records  of  the  institutions  of  mercy  such  as  old  folks'  homes,  orphanages, 
and  hospitals  have  not  been  preserved  carefully,  and  the  printed  records 
dealing  specifically  with  these  are  few  and  unsatisfactory.  For  a  study  of 
these  the  student  must  turn  to  whatever  sources  these  institutions  may  have 

7G 


preserved  on  their  own  initiative  rather  than  to  those  preserved  by  the  col- 
leges of  the  church  and  the  Royal  Library  of  Sweden.  Additional  references 
of  value  would  be  scattered  articles  in  journals  and  periodicals.  When  these 
institutions  published  bulletins,  as  was  the  case  in  a  few  instances,  these 
should,  of  course,  be  consulted  even  when  they  are  quite  incomplete. 

A  careful  study  of  the  sources  listed  below  will  reveal  that,  though  these 
are  adequate  enough  for  several  future  doctoral  dissertations,  the  church 
failed  to  preserve  many  of  its  records.  The  Augustana  Synod  was  perhaps 
most  successful  in  caring  for  its  important  historical  sources.  It  appointed 
early  in  its  history  a  church  historian,  whose  duty  it  was  to  collect  and 
preserve  the  records  of  the  church.  This  was  Erik  Norelius,  to  whom  the 
Augustana  Synod  is  greatly  indebted.  Unfortunately  neither  he  nor  T.  N. 
Hasselquist,  as  president  of  Augustana  College  and  Theological  Seminary, 
succeeded  in  securing  the  co-operation  of  all  the  clergy  of  the  synod  in 
preserving  the  records  of  the  church.  There  were  even  periods  when  the 
work  of  collecting  and  preserving  materials  was  entirely  neglected,  and  at 
no  time  did  all  the  denominations  co-operate  in  this  work  so  important  to 
them  all. 

The  files  of  the  Royal  Library  illustrate  the  extent  of  this  failure  of  co- 
operation. Augustana  College  is  more  fortunate,  as  the  Linder  and  Swan 
collections  presented  to  the  college  contain  many  valuable  references  on  all 
the  church  groups,  though  they  duplicate  those  pertaining  to  the  synod. 


REFERENCES 
BOOKS  AND  PAMPHLETS 

Ahlstrom,  Louis  John.  Eighty  years  of  Swedish  Baptist  work  in  Iowa,  1853- 
1933.  Des  Moines,  1933. 

Femtiofem  ar  i  vastra  Wisconsin.    Historiska  skildringar.    Nigra 

bemarkta  man  och  kvinnor  av  svensk  harkomst  i  amerikanska  nationens 
historia.  Svenska  baptisternas  upptradande  och  verksamhet  i  vastra 
Wisconsin  5  juni  1869-5  juni  1924.  Nybyggarlivet.  Minneapolis,  1924. 

John  Alexis  Edgren,  soldier,  educator,  author,  journalist.    A  biog- 


raphy. Chicago,  1938. 
American  Swedish  Baptists  in  missionary  service.  New  York,  1937. 
Andeer,  Carl  W.    Bland  de  vara  darute.   Nagra  blad  ur  en  f.d.  immigrant - 

prasts  dagbok.  Uppsala,  1935. 

I  brytningstid.    Skisser  ur  det  svenskamerikanska  folklifvet.    Rock 

Island,  [1904]. 

Ander,  O.  Fritiof,  and  Oscar  L.  Nordstrom.  The  American  origin  of  the  Au- 
gustana synod  from  contemporary  Lutheran  periodicals  1851-1860.  Rock 
Island,  1942.   (AHP,  v.  9.) 

Anderson,  A.  A.  Tjugu  ar  i  vilda  v  astern.  Erfarenheter  och  iakttagelser  som 
missionar  och  forsamlingslarers.   Minneapolis,  1910. 

Anderson,  Andrew.  Konferensljud.  Predikningar  och  avhandlingar.  Chi- 
cago, 1930. 

Anderson,  Jean.  History  of  the  Adelphia  College,  n.p.,  n.d. 

77 


Andreen  of  Augustana,  1864-1940.  Tributes  to  Gustav  Albert  Andreen  ...  a 
loyal  son  of  Augustana  Synod  pioneers,  third  president  of  Augustana 
College  and  Theological  Seminary,  by  associates,  family,  and  friends. 
Rock  Island,  1942. 

[Andreen,  Gustav  Albert].  Kunna  vi  svenskar  bidraga  till  forverkligandet  af 
tanken  pa  ett  svenskt-amerikanskt  universitet?   Venersborg,  1899. 

L.  P.  Esbjorn  and  the  pilgrim  fathers  of  1849.    Rock  Island,  1925. 

Studies  in  the  idyll  of  German  literature.  Rock  Island,  1902.    (ALP, 


no.  3.) 

Det  svenska  spraket  i  America.    Stockholm,  1900.    (STV,  no.  87.) 

Arden,  G.  Everett.  History  of  the  Illinois  Conference  Augustana  Evangeli- 
cal Lutheran  Church.   Rock  Island,  1953. 

Augustana  Book  Concern  1889-1914  samt  Augustana -synodens  tidigare  fbr- 
lagsverksamhet.  Festskrift  med  anledning  af  verksamhetens  25  ars-jubi- 
leum.  Rock  Island,  1914. 

Augustana  Business  College,  Rock  Island.   Moline,  n.d. 

Augustana  College.  Faculty  viewpoints.  A  seventy-fifth  anniversary  publi- 
cation. Rock  Island,  1935. 

Augustana  College  album.  Rock  Island,  1892. 

Augustana  College  and  Synod.  Minnen  fran  jubelfesten.  Program,  predik- 
ningar  och  tal  vid  Augustana  College  and  Augustana -synodens  f  emtio - 
ars-jubileum  den  5-15  juni  1910.  Rock  Island,  1911. 

Minnesskrift   med   anledning   af   Augustana -synodens    femtioariga 

tillvaro.    Historisk  ofversikt  af  vad  som  utrattats  under  aren  1860-1910. 
Rock  Island,  1910. 

Augustana  College  and  Theological  Seminary.  The  jubilee  1910.  Published 
in  commemoration  of  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  Augustana  College  and 
Theological  Seminary  by  the  class  of  1910.   Rock  Island,  1910. 

After  seventy  years.    Being  the  story  of  Augustana  College  and 

Theological  Seminary,  Rock  Island,  Illinois,  1860  to  1930.    Rock  Island, 
[1930]. 

Cornerstone   laying    and    dedication    of    the    Denkmann    Memorial 


Library  .  .  .  Rock  Island,  1912.    (AB,  [1912],  no.  1.) 
Who's  who  among  the  alumni.   Rock  Island,  1922. 


Augustana  College  och  teologiska  seminarium.   Rock  Island,  1892. 

Augustana  Synod.  A  brief  review  of  its  history  1860-1910.   Rock  Island,  1910. 

Minnen  fran  jubelfesten:    program  och  tal  vid  Augustana  College 

och  Augustana -synodens  femtio  ars-jubileum,  den  5-15  juni  1910.  Rock 
Island,  1911. 

Augustana  Synod  and  Augustana  College  and  Theological  Seminary.  After 
seventy-five  years,  1860-1935;  a  jubilee  publication:  seventy-fifth  anni- 
versary of  the  Augustana  Synod  and  Augustana  College  and  Theological 
Seminary.    Rock  Island,  1935. 

[Augustana  Synod  Centennial  committee].  Heroes  of  faith,  1848-1948.  [A 
pageant.]    [Rock  Island,  1948]. 

78 


Backlund,  Jonas  Oscar.  A  pioneer  trio.  Fredrik  Olaus  Nilsson,  Gustaf  Paim- 
quist,  Anders  Wiberg.  Leaders  in  the  first  decade  of  Swedish-American 
Baptists.  Chicago,  [1942]. 

Jubileumsboken.  Chicago,  1927. 

Swedish  Baptists  in  America.  A  history.   Chicago,  1933. 

Backstrom,  C.  E.  C.  A.  Bjork:  A  memorial  biography.  Chicago,  1937. 

Backstrom,  C.  E.,  et  al.  Three  Covenant  presidents:  biographical  sketches 
of  the  first  three  presidents  of  the  Evangelical  Mission  Covenant  Church 
of  America.  [C.  A.  Bjork  by  C.  E.  Backstrom;  E.  G.  Hjerpe  by  E.  Gustav 
Johnson;  and  C.  V.  Bowman  by  Erik  Dahlhielm]    Chicago,  1945. 

Benander,  J.  A.  Svenska  evangeliska  lutherska  Salems-forsamlingen,  Rock- 
ford.  1907-1913.  n.p.,  n.d. 

Bengtson,  B  E.  Pen  pictures  of  pioneers.  Holdrege,  Neb.,  1926-1931.  2v. 

Benson,  Adolph  B.  American  Swedish  Historical  Museum.  A  quarter  cen- 
tury of  progress  1926-1951.  Philadelphia,  1951. 

Benson,  J.  L.  Tjugu  ar  i  Kina  1905-1925.  En  kort  oversikt  over  Augustana- 
synodens  verksamhet  i  Honan,  Kina.  Jamte  livsbilder  och  berattelser 
fran  Kina  av  missionarer  pa  faltet.  n.p.,  [1927]. 

Benson,  P.  Begynnelse-tider  av  Svenska  baptisternas  verksamhet  pa  Vest- 
kusten.  Seattle,  [1911]. 

Svenska    baptisternas    historia    i    Washington    och    Norra    Idaho. 

Seattle,  1911. 

Bergendoff,  Conrad.    The  colony  on  the  Delaware  and  Augustana  on  the 

Mississippi  1638-1938.  Rock  Island,  1938. 
Berger,  Vilhelm.  Augustana -synodens  forsamlingar  i  New  York,  N.  Y.   New 

York,  [1931]. 

De  svenska  baptist-fbrsamlingarna  i  New  York,  N.  Y.    [New  York, 

1931]. 

De  svenska  metodist-forsamlingarna  i  New  York,  N.  Y.   [New  York, 


1931]. 

De  svenska  missionsforsamlingarna  i  New  York,  N.  Y.    [New  York, 

1931]. 

De  svenska  sjukhjalpsforeningarna  i  New  York,  N.  Y.    [New  York, 


1934]. 

De  svenska  valgbrenhetsanstalterna  i  Amerika.  New  York,  1935. 

Var  kyrka.    De  svensk-amerikanska  kyrkliga  forhallandena,  sedda 


fran  nationell  och  folklig  synpunkt.  Stockholm,  1912. 

Bergin,  Alfred.  En  svensk-  amerikansk  kulturbild  fran  mellersta  Kansas. 
Rock  Island,  1909. 

Lindsborg;  bidrag  till  svenskarnas  och  den  lutherska  kyrkans  his- 
toria i  Smokey  Hill  River  Daien,  samlade  for  fyrtioarsfesten.  Rock  Is- 
land, 1909. 

Lindsborg  efter  femtio   ar.    Bidrag  till  svenskarnas  och  den  lu- 


therska kyrkans  historia  i  Smoky  Hill  River-dalen.   Rock  Island,  1919. 
Lindsborg  efter  femtio  ar.  Rock  Island,  1919. 

79 


The  Story  of  Lindsborg.    Written  for  the  60th  anniversary  of  the 

Swedish  Evangelical  Lutheran  Bethany  Church,  Lindsborg,  Kansas  .  .  . 
1929.  Lindsborg,  [1929]. 

The  Swedish  settlements   in  Central  Kansas.    Address  before   the 


Kansas  State  Historical  Society,  December  7,  1909. 

Bergstedt,  Axel.  Svenska  kongregationsfbrsamlingen.  Med  anledning  av 
forsamlingens  femtioariga  tillvaro.    1879-1929.    Brockton,    [1929]. 

Bersell,  P.  O.  Augustana-synoden  i  Amerika  och  dess  mission.  [Rock  Is- 
land, 1938.] 

Bethel  Theological  Seminary.    1871-1946.    Chicago,  1946. 

Bishop  Hill  colony  case.  Answer  of  the  defendants  to  the  bill  of  com- 
plaint.  1868. 

Biorck,  T.  E.   The  planting  of  the  Swedish  church  in  America.   Rock  Island, 

1943.    (ALP,  no.  19) 
Blomgren,   Carl  A.    Ar  episkopalkyrkans  mission  bland  vara   landsman   i 

Amerika  berattigad?    Rock  Island,  1894. 
Bongfeldt,  G.  L.   An  appreciation  of  the  life  of  C.  A.  Wendell.   1944. 

Pen  portraits  of  P.  O.  Bersell  and  C.  A.  Wendell.   Rock  Island,  1950. 

Bowman,   Charles  Victor.    Missionsvannerna  i   Amerika.    En  aterblick   pa 

deras  uppkomst  och  forsta  verksamhetstid.   Minneapolis,  1908. 

The  Mission  Covenant  of  America.    Chicago,  1925. 

Tjugufem  ar.   En  aterblick  pa  missionsvannernas  verksamhet  i  de 

bstra  staterna.  Boston,  1915. 

Broady,  K.  O.   En  levnadsteckning.   N.  J.  Nordstrom.    Chicago,  1925. 

[Broadview  Swedish  Seminary].  Fourth  annual  calendar  of  the  Broadview 
Swedish  Seminary.    [SDA]  LaGrange,  1914. 

Brostrbm,  Maria  Elisabeth.  Bakom  forlaten,  syner  och  uppenbarelser.  Min- 
neapolis, n.  d. 

Builders  of  the  Greater  North  Park  College.   Chicago,  1930. 

Burgess,  Thomas.  Swedish  folk  within  our  church.  The  rise,  normal  de- 
cline, and  glorious  results  of  a  half  century's  work.    New  York,  1929. 

Bystrom,  Jakob.  En  frikyrklig  banbrytare  eller  F.  O.  Nilssons  lif  och  verk- 
samhet.   Stockholm,  1910. 

Bystrom,  Jacob,  and  George  Friden.  En  folkvackelsens  apostel.  Eric 
Ericson-Rosen.   Hans  liv  och  verksamhet,  1843-1922.   Stockholm,  1947. 

Carlson,  Leland  H.  An  Alaskan  gold  mine.  The  story  of  No.  9  above.  Evans- 
ton,  1951. 

Carlson,  Oscar  W.,  ed.   Covenant  institutions.   Chicago,  1926. 

Cederberg,  R.,  and  C.  G.  Wallenius.  Nagra  hvarfore  rorande  methodismen. 
Chicago,  n.  d. 

[Cederholm,  A.].  Autobiography  with  a  sketch  of  his  labor  among  Scandi- 
navian population  of  the  U.  S.  .  .  tr.  by  Caroline  Cederholm.  Piqua, 
Ohio,  1881. 

Cederoth,  John.  Betelseminariets  femtioarsberattelse.  Utg.  till  minneshbg- 
tiden  i  juni  1916.    Stockholm,  1916. 

SO 


Minnesskrift  med  anledning  af   Betelseminariets   fyrtioariga   till— 

varo.   Stockholm,  1906. 

Church  service  book  and  ministerial  acts  of  the  Evangelical  Lutheran  Au- 
gustana  Synod  of  North  America.   Rock  Island,  1928. 

Dahl,  K.  G.  Wm.   The  Bethphage  Mission.   I.  Its  origin,   n.  p.,  1915. 

Dahlhielm,  Erik.  Covenant  memories.  Golden  jubilee,  Swedish  Evangelical 
Mission  Covenant,  1885-1935.   Chicago,  1935. 

Fifty  years  with  Christ.    An  historic  sketch  of  the  Salem  Mission 

Church  of  West  Duluth.  West  Duluth,  [1940]. 

Diakoniss  anstalten  i  Omaha,  Nebraska,  1891-1895.   Rock  Island,  1896. 

En  dotters  bref  [from  America  to  her  mother  and  friends  in  Sweden]. 
Bishop  Hill,  1879. 

Drake,  A.,  and  J.  A.  Borgstrom.  De  svenska  baptisternas  historia  under  de 
forsta  50  aren  1848-1898.  Stockholm,  1898. 

Echo  fran  reformations-festen  vid  Augustana  College  and  Theological  Semi- 
nary, Rock  Island,  Illinois,  den  31:ste  oktober  och  den  l:ste  november 
1878.   Moline,  1878. 

Ekman,  F.  M.  Konferens-album  till  minne  af  Minnesota -konferensens  af 
Augustana -syno den  40  arsfest  i  Chisago  Lake,  Minn.,  den  4-9  okt.  1898. 
Minneapolis,  1899. 

Edgren,  J.  A.  Brannande  fragor  pa  det  religiosa  omradet,  behandlade.  Lund, 
1884. 

Minnen  fran  hafvet,  kriget  och  missionsfaltet.    Chicago,  1878.    (An 

earlier  edition  published  in  Hernosand,  1872.) 

Ellison,  O.  Svenska  baptisternas  i  Wisconsin  missionshistoria.  Minneapolis, 
1902. 

Elwell,  Edward  H.  Aroostook.  With  some  account  of  the  excursions  thither 
of  the  editors  of  Maine,  in  years  1858  and  1878,  and  of  the  colony  of 
Swedes  settled  in  the  town  of  New  Sweden.   Portland,  1878. 

Enebuske,  Claes  J.    Progressive  gymnastic  day's  orders,  according  to  the 

principles  of  the  Ling  system.   Boston,  1890. 

The  gymnastic  progression  of  the  Ling  system.  Boston,  1890. 

Engelhardt,  Fred.   Report  of  the  survey  of  Gustavus  Adolphus  College,  St 

Peter,  Minn.,  and  Minnesota  College,  Minneapolis.    Minneapolis,  1930. 
Epworthforbundets  handbok.    Chicago,  n.  d. 
Erik-Jansonisternas   historia.     (A   defense    of  Janson,  probably   printed   in 

Galva  some  time  after  Janson's  death.) 

Esbjorn,  L.  P.  Afskedspredikan  hallen  uti  Hille  kyrka  annandag  pingst,  den 
28  maj  1849  af  L.  P.  Esbjorn  fore  dess  afresa  till  Forenta  Staterna  i 
N.  Amerika  sasom  Swenska  missionssallskapets  ombud  och  predikant 
for  svenska  och  norska  emigranter.    Gavle,  1849. 

Barometerns  foljeslagare,  uppgjord  efter  32  ars  observationer  pa 

detta  wigtiga  instrument  af  P.  Christensen,  lector  i  astronomi  ...  uti 
Cowes  pa  on  Wight;  och  pa  swenska  bearbetad  efter  7:de  original - 
upplagan  af  L.  P.  E.   Gefle,  1844. 

81 


Berattelse  om  de  svenska  lutherska  forsamiingarnas  uppkomst  och 

narvarande  tillstand  framstalld  vid  Upsala  erkestifts  prestmote  den  14 
juni  1865.   n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Johan  Arndts  Paradis — lustgarden,  etc.    Ofwers.    Gavle,  1843. 

Johan  Arndt,  sex  bocker  om  den  sanna  Christendom,  jemte  para- 


dis—lustgard.    1843.    Gavle,  1843. 

Praktisk  och  popular  afhandling  om  visirmattet   innehallande   ett 

latt  satt  att,  utan  malkarl,  blott  med  en  staf  mata  rymden  af  allehanda 
cylindriska,  ovala,  koniska  och  sferiska  karl  samt  larar  och  kistor,  sa 
och  att  med  samma  staf  upplosa  en  mangd  fragor  i  raknekonsten. 
Gefle,  1837. 

Prof-predikan  hallen  i  Soderhamns  stads  kyrka  andra  sondagen  i 


advent  d.  7  dec.  1845.   Gefle,  1846. 
Strauss,  Fr.    Sinai  och  Golgatha.    Resa  i  Osterlandet  aren   1844- 


1845.   Gefle,  1849. 

Esping,  Julius  I.   A  sailor's  experience,  Boston,  n.  d. 

Estes,  Stanley  J.  The  story  of  New  Sweden  as  told  at  the  quarter  centennial 
celebration  of  the  founding  of  the  Swedish  colony  in  the  woods  of 
Maine,  June  25,  1895.    Portland,  1896. 

Evald,  Emmy  Carlsson.  Teol.  doktor  Carl  A.  Evald.  Hans  lefnad  och  lifs- 
garning  tecknade  af  skol-  och  studiekamrater,  ambetsbroder,  forsam- 
lingsbor  och  andra  vanner.    Chicago,  [1910]. 

[Evangeliska  frikyrkan  i  Amerikas  Forenta  Stater].  Minnesskrift  utg.  med 
anledning  af  Svenska  evangeliska  frikyrkans  i  Amerika  trettioars- 
jubileum  i  Rockford,  111.,  10-14  juni,  1914.   Minneapolis,  1914. 

[Evangelisk  lutherska  missionsforeningen  i  Amerika].  Aterljud.  Minnes- 
blad  fran  dess  forsta  verksamhetsar.  Utg.  av  Evngelisk  lutherska  mis- 
sionsforeningen i  Amerika,  1903-1928.  Chicago,  1928. 

Ferm,  Vergilius.  The  crisis  in  American  Lutheran  theology.  A  study  of  the 
issue  between  American  Lutheranism  and  old  Lutheranism.  New  York, 
1927. 

What  Is  Lutheranism?    A  symposium  in  interpretation.   New  York, 

1930. 

Forsander,  Nils.  Den  oforandrade  Augsburgiska  bekannelsen  med  inled- 
ning  och  forklaring.   Rock  Island,  1902. 

Lifsbilder  ur  Augustana-synodens  historia.    Rock  Island,  1915. 

Livsbilder  ur  Augustana-synodens  historia.    Rock  Island,  1925. 

Fran  skargards-  och  sjomansliv  till  en  markesplats  i  Herrens  vingard.    Eric 

Sandells  liv  och  verksamhet.    Chicago,  1918. 
Fredenholm,    Axel.     Johan    Gustav    Princell.     Kort    levnadsteckning.     Jon- 

koping,  1924. 
Freeman,  A.  T.    Underbara  lefnadsoden.    Berattade  af  A.  T.  Freeman  och 

upptecknade  af  Erik  Sjostrand.   Chicago,  1905. 
Friden,    George.     Andliga    markesman    i    Forenta    Staternas    svenskbygder. 

Stockholm,  1931. 

82 


Fryxell,  Fritiof  M.  Science  at  Augustana  College.  Rock  Island,  1922.  (AB, 
[1922],  no.  4) 

Gerberding,  George  H.  Life  and  letters  of  W.  A.  Passavant,  D.D.  Greenville, 
1906. 

Reminiscent  reflections  of  a  youthful  octogenarian.    Minneapolis, 

1928. 

Gordh,  Gustaf  Arvid.  Kortfattad  berattelse  om  Forsta  svenska  baptistfbr- 
samlingens  uppkomst  och  verksamhet  1867-1917.    [St.  Paul?]  1917. 

Graner,  O.  C.    Fifty  wonderful  years.    Chicago,  1940. 

Gustavus  Adolphus  Children's  Home,   1886-1926.    Jamestown,   1926. 

Gustavus  Adolphus  College.  Anniversary  souvenir  1862-1907.  Gustavus 
Adolphus  College,  St.  Peter,  1907. 

Hagstrom,  G.  Arvid.  Life  of  Dr.  Frank  Peterson;  autobiography  with  addi- 
tions.  Chicago,  n.  d. 

Sixty  years  history  of  Emerald  Ave.  Baptist  church.   Chicago,  1946. 

Hall,  A.  G.  Svenska  baptisternas  historia  under  en  tid  af  femtio  ar  1848- 
1898.   Chicago,  1899-1900. 

Hasselquist,  T.  N.  "Latom  oss  fara  ofver  till  den  andra  stranden."  Predikan 
pa  fjerde  sondagen  efter  trettondagen  hallen  i  Galesburg  och  Knox- 
ville,  HI.   Solwesborg,  1860. 

Minne  af  den  andre  mars  1886  vid  Augustana  College  och  Theolo- 

giska  Seminarium.    [Dr.  T.  N.  Hasselquist's  71st  birthday.]    Rock  Island, 
1886. 

Samvetets   betydelse   i  reformationen.    Tal   hallet   vid   Augustana 


College  den  5  nov.  1880.  Moline,  n.  d. 

Tal  vid  Augustana-synodens  tjugofemarsfest  i  Rockford,  111.,  den 

25te  juni  1885.  Rock  Island,  1885. 

Wisheten    i    bekannelsen.     Predikan    hallen    vid    oppnandet     af 


Augustana-synodens  6:te  arsmote  i  Princeton,  111.,  den  9  juni  1865,  af 
Synodens  president  och  tryckt  pa  Synodens  begaran.    Chicago,  1865. 

Hatlestad,  O.  J.  Historiske  meddelelser  om  den  Norske  Augustana -sy node 
samt  nogle  oplysninger  om  de  andre  samfund  i  Amerika.   Decorah,  1887. 

Hedstrand,  Gustaf  Fabian.    I  forna  dar.    Chicago,  1926. 

Historic  Bishop  Hill.  Illustrated  souvenir,  75th  anniversary,  1846-1921. 
n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Historical  sketch  of  the  Augustana  College  and  Theological  Seminary  lo- 
cated at  Rock  Island,  111.  A  reprint  from  Portrait  and  Biographical 
Album  of  the  Rock  Island  County  of  the  State  of  Illinois.   Chicago,  1886. 

Hjelmqvist,  R.  A.  F.  Ord  vid  grafsattning  af  askan  efter  prof.  J.  Lindahl 
och  hans  maka  Sophie  Pahlman  1913.   n.  p. 

Hogfelt,  Otto.  Ljusbilder  fran  kyrkans  och  missionens  historia.  Chicago,  1923. 

Meditationer  och  minnen.   Chicago,  1940. 

Hoving,  Johannes.  Lasebok  och  uppslagsbok  for  Vasa-barnen  i  Amerika. 
Pa  uppdrag  av  storlogen  av  Vasaorden  av  Amerika  sammanstalld  och 
fori   Stockholm,  1935. 

83 


Hult,  Anders.    ABC  eller  barnens  forsta  bok  for  skolan  och  hemmet.   Rock 

Island,  1885. 
ABC,  lasebok  och  rattstafningsbok  for  barn  .  .  .  Boston,  1876.   Chi- 


cago, 1888. 

Illinois  Conference,  1853-1928.  Jubilee  album  published  in  commemoration 
of  the  seventy-fifth  anniversary  of  the  Illinois  Conference  of  the  Evan- 
gelical Lutheran  Augustana  Synod.   Rock  Island,  1928. 

Illinois-konferensen,  1853-1903.    Rock  Island,  [1904]. 

[Illinois  missionsforening].  Gud  ar  trofast.  Minnesskrift  ofver  Illinois  mis- 
sionsforening,  1886-1911.    Chicago,  1911. 

Jacobson,  Margaret  E.   Bishop  Hill,  1946.  n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Jensen,  Andrew.  History  of  the  Scandinavian  Mission.   Salt  Lake  City,  1927. 

Johnson,  Emeroy.   A  church  is  planted.   Minneapolis,  1948. 

Early  life  of  Eric  Norelius  (1833-1862).  Journal  of  a  Swedish  im- 
migrant in  the  Middle  West.   Rock  Island,  1934. 

Eric  Norelius.    Pioneer  midwest  pastor  and  churchman.    Rock  Is- 


land, [1954]. 

Johnston,  Arnold  V.,  ed.  Souvenir  of  the  Tri-Cities,  Rock  Island,  Davenport 
and  Moline.   [Augustana  jubilee.]   Rock  Island,  1910. 

Jones,  L.  E.   Pageant  of  the  pioneers  of  the  Augustana  Synod.    [MS]  1924. 

Julhalsning  fran  Svenska  lutherska  immigrant -hemmet  i  New  York.  n.  d., 
[1912]. 

Klingberg  Children's  Home  of  Chicago.   Annual  report,  Chicago,  1926-1929. 

Klingberg,  Irene,  and  Robert.  J.  E.  Klingberg.  Adventurer  in  faith.  Chi- 
cago, 1948. 

Klingberg,  J.  E.  A  brief  history  of  the  Swedish  Baptist  New  York  Confer- 
ence 1883-1933.    New  York,  1933. 

Svenskarna  i  New  Britain.   Historiska  anteckningar.    New  Britain, 

1911. 

Sbndagsskolmissionaren  P.  E.  Engberg.    Hans  liv  och  verksamhet. 


New  Britain,  1918. 

Teckningar    fran    halvseklet    eller    var    predikantskolas    inlagg    i 

evangelii  utbredning  i  varlden.  n.  p.,  n.  d. 

The  Swedes  in  America.   New  Britain,  1931. 

Var  framtid.    Foredrag   vid  Svenska   baptisternas  i  Amerika   all- 


manna  konferens  i  Portland,  Ore.,  den  27  juni  1929.  New  Britain,  [1929]. 

Eng.  trans.  Chicago,  1929. 
Kort  historia  over  Norra  Red  River-dalens  missionsforenings  verksamhet 

1895-1919.   Chicago,  [1919]. 
Kort  historik  ofver  Kansaskonferensen  [Augustana  Synod]  och  dess  inratt- 

ningar  for  arsmbtet  och  40-arsfesten  i  Kansas  City,  Missouri,  den  27 

april-1  maj  1910.   Lindsborg,  1910. 
Kort  bfversikt  af  den  Svenska  lutherska  kyrkans  eller  Augustana-synodens 

i  Amerika  historia.  n.  p.,  n.  d. 
Kronberg,  Sven  Johan.    Banbrytaren.    Historisk  skildring  af  nybyggarelifvet 

i  nordvastern  under  en  tid  af  trcttiofem  ar,  1870-1905.   Rock  Island,  1906. 

84 


Lagergren,  Carl  G.  Efter  sjuttio  ar  [1852-1922].  Svenska  baptistrorelsens 
uppkomst  och  utveckling  i  Amerika.  Historisk  aterblick.   St.  Paul,  1922. 

Fran  strids-   och   arbetsfaltet.    Minnen   och   iakttagelser   fran   en 

sextiofemarig  verksamhet  [1862-1927].   Ett  blad  ur  svenska  baptisternas 
historia.  Minneapolis,  1927. 

Larson,  J.  E.  Augustana  hednamissionsfbrening.  En  kort  historik  .  .  .  n.  p., 
1911. 

"Lefve  Upsala!"  Poem,  tal  och  bref  fbredragna  och  upplasta  vid  pastor 
Peter  Froebergs  installation  sasom  rektor  vid  Upsala  College  den  17 
januari  1913.   n.  p.,  1913. 

Liljegren,  Nils  M.  Eben  Eser  eller  "Anda  hittills  har  Herran  hulpit."  Min- 
neapolis, 1891. 

Liljegren,  Nils  M.,  N.  O.  Westergreen,  and  C.  G.  Wallenius.  Svenska  meto- 
dismen  i  Amerika.   Chicago,  1895. 

Lindahl,  S.  P.  A.  Hvad  vet  du  om  de  hemliga  sallskapen?  Utg.  pa  uppdrag 
af  Illinois-konferensen  inom  Skand.  Ev.  Luth.  Augustana-synoden. 
[Rock  Island],  n.  d. 

Lindberg,  Conrad  Emil.  Address  in  memory  of  King  Oscar  II  at  Augustana 
College,  December  15,  1907. 

Lindberg,  E.  The  blind  Swedish  evangelist  A.  G.  Freeman.   Chicago,  n.  d. 

Lindberg,  P.  M.  Fran  diakonissanstalten  i  Omaha.  Augustana-synodens 
diakonissanstalt,  1912. 

Lindgren,  Anna  J.  Afterglow-life  and  letters  of  Josephine  Princell.  Chi- 
cago, 1937. 

Lindgren,  S.  O.,  and  Nils  Peterson.  Forbundets  kommitte  och  P.  H.  Ander- 
son.   [McPherson,  Kans.?],  1903. 

Lindh,  O.  Minnen  och  iakttagelser  fran  en  forfluten  lefnad.  Cambridge,  1907. 

Lindquist,  Albert  W.,  and  G.  A.  Dorf.  Minnen  af  Kansas -konferensens  fem- 
tioarsfest.  Tvenne  tal  vid  konferensens  femtioarsfest  i  Osage  City,  Kan- 
sas, den  7  maj  1920.   Rock  Island,  [1920]. 

Lindquist,  Carl.  [Charles  Lee,  pseud.]  Amerika,  varldsutstallningen  samt 
arbetarerorelsen  enligt  Guds  dubbla  plan.  Chicago,  1892.  Stockholm, 
1894. 

Lindshold,  Emil.   The  church  of  humanity.   Detroit,  n.  d. 

Lonnquist,  C.  A.  1876-1916.  Efter  fyrtio  ar.  Stycken  ur  en  forsamlingshis- 
toria.  Med  anledning  av  Svenska  evangeliska  lutherska  Bethania- 
forsamlingens  i  Kearney  Co.,  Nebr.,  jubileum.   Rock  Island,  1916. 

Lovene,  Peter.  History  of  the  Swedish  Baptist  churches  of  Kansas  and  Mis- 
souri, 1869-1927.  [Chicago.]  1928. 

Lovgren,  Oscar  George.    Nils  Frykman.    En  andlig  sangare  och  en  religios 

brytningstid.   Stockholm,  1936. 
Lund,  Emil.    Iowa -konferensens  af  Augustana-synoden  och  dess  forsamlin- 

gars  historia.   Rock  Island,  1916. 

Lutherdom  i  Amerika  eller  Huru  svenskarne  borjade  i  Minnesota. 

Rock  Island,  1926. 

85 


Minnesota-konferensens   af  Augustana-synoden   och  dess  forsam- 

lingars  historia.    Rock  Island,   [1926]. 

Lund,  Eric.    Baptistsamfundets  hednamissioner.    Missionshistoriska  och  bio- 

grafiska  skildringar.   Stockholm,  1887. 
Lundeberg,  Axel.    Emanuel  Swedenborg  och  hans  inflytande  i  Amerika  .  .  . 

Minneapolis,  1911. 

Swedenborg's  relations  to  some  of  the  problems  of  our  time.  Min- 
neapolis, [1907]. 

Luther  Academy.  Twenty-fifth  anniversary.  1883-1908.  Souvenir  album  of 
Luther  Academy  and  Bethlehem  Lutheran  church.    Wahoo,  1908. 

Matson,  P.,  and  E.  G.  Hjerpe.  Korsets  seger.  Illustrerad  skildring  av  Sven- 
ska  evangeliska  missionsforbundets  i  Amerika  Kinamission.  1890-1915. 
Chicago,  [1915]. 

Matson,  P.,  E.  B.  Larsson,  and  W.  D.  Thornblom.  Half  a  century  of  Cove- 
nant foreign  missions.  Chicago,  1940. 

Mattson,  A.  D.  A  study  of  the  town  and  country  churches  of  the  Lutheran 
Augustana  synod  under  the  auspices  of  the  Board  of  Home  Missions. 
Rock  Island,  1945. 

Polity  of  the  Augustana  Synod.  Rock  Island,  1941. 

Mellander,  Axel.  Betankande  i  kongregationalist-fragan.  Chicago,  1910. 

De  svenska  missionsvannerna  i  Amerika.  Ofversikt  af  deras  his- 
toria.  Chicago,  1900. 

[Methodist  Swedish  Theological  Seminary].  Illustrerad  historik.  Metodist- 
kyrkans  svenska  teologiska  seminarium,  1870-1920.  [Evanston,  1920?] 

Miller,  N.  S.  The  refiner,  an  echo  of  stifled  voices  in  the  Swedish  Baptist 
denomination.   Chicago,  1927.   2v. 

Minne  fran  commencement-veckan  och  den  forsta  studentexamen  vid  Beth- 
any College  i  Lindsborg,  Kansas,  1891.   Chicago,  1891. 

Mikkelson,  Michael  A.  The  Bishop  Hill  colony,  a  religious  communistic  set- 
tlement in  Henry  County,  Illinois.   Baltimore,  1892.    (JHU,  ser.  10,  no.  1) 

Minnesord  i  anledning  af  Fru  Eva  Helena  Hasselquists  dod  den  29  april  1881. 
Moline,  1881. 

[Minnesota  Conference].  The  beginnings  and  progress  of  the  Minnesota 
Conference  of  the  Lutheran  Augustana  Synod  of  America.  Minneapolis, 
1929. 

[ ]  Jubelminnen  fran   lutherska   Minnesotakonferensens   halfsekel   i 

fest  i  Minneapolis,  St.  Paul  och  Center  City  d.  7-11  okt.  1908.  Rock  Is- 
land, 1908. 

[ ]  Minnesota-konferensens  af  Evangeliska  lutherska  Augustana- 
synoden  50-ars  jubileum  den  7-11  okt.  1908.   Minneapolis,  1908. 

Mission  Covenant  Church.    Ur  minnets  gommer.    Minneapolis,  n.  d. 

Moden,  K.  A.  En  kampe  for  kristen  tro  och  samvetsfrihet.  G.  W.  Schroders 
levnadsteckning.    Stockholm,  1932. 

[Modin,  Ellen].    Eko  fran  flydda  dagar.    Minneapolis,  1906. 

Nebraska-konferensens  tjugofem-arsminne  den  11  augusti  1886-1911.  Rock 
Island,  1911. 

86 


Nebraska  missionsfbrening  i  ord  och  bild  vid  dess  tjugofemarsjubileum 
1887-1912.    Chicago,  1912. 

Nelson,  A.  P.  Missionen  efter  ett  hundra  ar.  Kort  ofverblick  af  nittonde 
arhundradets  missionsarbete.    Worcester,  1897. 

Svenska   missionsvannernas   i   Amerika   historia.     Med    foretal    af 

Professor  J.  G.  Princell.   Minneapolis,  1906. 

Nelson,  John.  Utdrag  af  John  Nelsons  dagbok,  innehallande  en  berattelse 
om  Guds  handlingssatt  med  honom  fran  hans  ungdom  till  det  fyra- 
tionde-andra  af  hans  lefnadsar.  Forfattad  af  honom  sjelf.  Med  tillagg 
af  en  berattelse  om  hans  dod.    [Trans,  from  English.]    New  York,  1854. 

Neve,  J.  L.  A  brief  history  of  the  Lutheran  Church  in  America.  Burlington, 
Iowa,  1916. 

Newman,  S.  B.  Sjelfbiografi.  Den  aldste  svenska  methodist  predikanten. 
Chicago,  1890. 

Newman,  S.  H.  Svenskarne  och  den  kryrkliga  verksamheten  i  Lockport,  n.  p., 
[1901]. 

New  York-konferensen.  Minnesalbum  utg.  med  anledning  af  New  York- 
konferensens  af  Augustana-synoden  trettioarsfest  i  New  Britain,  Conn., 
den  25  april-1  maj,  1900.   Rock  Island,  [1901]. 

Norelius,  Erik.  De  svenska  lutherska  forsamlingarnas  och  svenskarnes  his- 
toria i  Amerika.   v.  1,  Rock  Island,  1890;  v.  2,  1914. 

Evangeliska    lutherska    Augustana-synoden    i    Nord-Amerika    och 

dess  mission.   Lund,  1870. 

Lefnadsteckning  ofver  Peter  Dillner,  pastor  vid  Svenska  evange- 


liska lutherska  forsamlingen  i  Atwater,  Minn.    Minnesgard  af  E —  N — . 
Chicago,  1883. 

Minnen  af  Svenska  evangeliska  lutherska  Minnesota-konferensens 

25-  och  40-arsfester.    Tvenne  tal.    Rock  Island,  1898. 

Pastor  J.  Auslunds  lefverne  och  verksamhet  korteligen  tecknade. 


Red  Wing,  1878. 

St.  Ansgars  elementarskola  i  Minnesota.    En  redogorelse  for  dess 

upkomst    och    narwarande    standpunkt:    Pa    uppdrag    af    Minnesota- 
konferensen  forfattad  af  E.  Norelius.   Rock  Island,  1874. 

T.  N.  Hasselquist.   Lefnadsteckning.   Rock  Island,  n.  d.,  [1900]. 

Vasa  illustrata.    En  borgerlig  och  kyrklig  kulturbild.    Med  anled- 


ning af  femtio-arsfesten,  som  firades  i  den  Svenska  evangeliska  luther- 
ska forsamlingen  i  Vasa,  Minn.,  den  tjugotredje  och  tjugofjarde  juni 
nittonhundrafem  framstalld.   Vasa,  1905. 

Norstrom,  Walfrid.  Gjorda  erfarenheter  i  min  ungdom  och  sedan  sasom 
predikant.  Mina  studier  och  verksamhet  samt  den  kristna  teologien 
granskad  i  ljuset  af  Guds  ord.    Puyallup,  Wash.,  1914. 

Nothstein,  Ira  O.  Documents,  selected,  dealing  with  the  organization  of  the 
first  congregations  and  the  first  conferences  of  the  Augustana  synod 
and  their  growth  until  1860.  Rock  Island,  1944-1946.  2v.  (AHP,  vs.  10 
and  11.) 

Lutheran  makers  of  America.    Philadelphia,  1930. 

87 


[Northwestern  Michigan  District  Association].  Golden  jubilee  booklet, 
1886-1936.  The  Northwestern  Michigan  District  Association  of  the  Evan- 
gelical Mission  Covenant  of  America.   Norway,  Mich.,  1936. 

Nya  ABC-boken.  [M]  Chicago,  n.  d. 

Nyman,  Aaron.  Debatter  mellan  Erickson  och  Nyman  atfoljd  af  adventist- 
ranker.   Chicago,  n.  d. 

Fyra  debatter  ofver  Bibelns  fel  och  motsagelser  mellan   Nyman 

och  Fjellander.    Chicago,  1917. 

Hapnadsvackande  misstag.    Sjunde-dags  adventisternas  profetiska 

budskap.   Chicago,  1913. 

Mrs.  Ellen  G.  White  under  the  microscope;  the  prophetess  of  the 


Seventh-Day  Adventists  weighed  in  the  balance  of  Biblical  truth  and 

found  wanting.    Chicago,  n.  d. 
Nyren,    Bernhard.     Paul    Peter    Waldenstroms    minnesanteckningar.     1838- 

1875.    Stockholm,  1928. 
Nyren,  C.  A.,  and  B.  J.  Thoren.    Om  hemliga  fbreningar  och  om  lekar  och 

nojen.   Forelasningar.   Seattle,   n.  d.,  [1909]. 
Nystrom,  J.  A.   Minnen  fran  kyrkan  och  predikostolen.   Chicago,  n.  d. 
Nyvall,  David.   Beacon  lights,  three  addresses  and  an  essay.    Chicago,  1933. 

Minnesskrift   publicerad    med   anledning    af    Svenska    evangeliska 

missionsforbundets    i    Amerika    tjugufemarsjubileum    i    Chicago    21-26 
juni  1910.    Minneapolis,  1910. 

Svenskheten  i  Amerika.  Minneapolis,  1892. 

The  Swedish  Covenanters.    History.    Chicago,  1930. 

Tre  fosterlandska  tal.   Chicago,  1903. 


Nyvall,  David,  and  A.  Mellander.    I  Alaska.    En  naturskildring,  kulturbild 

och  missionsberattelse.   Koping,  1899. 
Ochsenford,   S.   E.    Documentary   History   of   the    General    Council   of   the 

Evangelical  Lutheran  Church  in  North  America.    Philadelphia,  1912. 
Official  guide  to  the  Old  Colony  Church  and  catalogue  of  the  collection  of 

pioneer  relics  of  Bishop  Hill.    Centennial  issue  1946.   n.  p.,  n.  d. 
Ohlson,  Axel  V.    Ekon  fran  helgedomen.    Korta  predikningar  och  foredrag 

af  ett  sjuttiotal  af  Svenska  evangeliska  frikyrkans  i  Amerika  predi- 

kanter  och  missionarer  jamte  deras  portratt.    Saml.,  red,  och  utg.  af 

Axel  V.  Ohlson.   Chicago,  1913. 
Ohman,     Sven     G.      Augustana-synodens     sjalvstandighetsforklaring     1918. 

Kyrkliga  vagar  och  afvagar.   Tecknade  for  vart  folk.    Worcester,  [1918]. 
Olson,  Adolf  and  Virgil.    Seventy-five  years.    A  history  of  Bethel  Theo- 
logical Seminary,  St.  Paul,  Minnesota,  1871-1946.    Chicago,  1946. 
Olson,  Ernst  W.   Augustana  Book  Concern:    publishers   of  the   Augustana 

Synod.   History  of  its  activities  since  1889  with  an  introductory  account 

of  earlier  publishing  enterprises.    Rock  Island,  1933. 

En  bokhandelshistoria.    Chicago,  1910. 

Fiftieth  anniversary,  1884-1934,  Augustana  Book  Concern,  pub- 
lishers of  the  Augustana  Synod  since  1889;  history  of  the  synodical  pub- 
lishing house.   Rock  Island,  1934. 


Olof  Olsson,  the  man,  his  work,  and  his  thoughts.  Rock  Island,  1941. 

(AHP,  v.  1,  no.  2) 

Olson,  Oscar  N.   The  Augustana  Lutheran  Church  in  America.   Pioneer  pe- 
riod 1846  to  1860.  Rock  Island,  1950. 

Augustana-synodens  kyrkliga  verksamhet  i  Chicago.    Rock  Island, 

1910. 

Olof  Christian  Telemak  Andren.    Ambassador  of  good  will.    Rock 


Island,  1954.    (AHP,  v.  14) 
Sward-Johnston.   Biographical  sketches  of  Augustana  leaders.   Rock  Island, 

1955.    (AHP,  v.  15) 
Olson,  Oscar,  and  George  Wickstrom.    A  century  of  life  and  growth.    Rock 

Island,  1948. 

Olsson,  Olof.   A  Pilgrim  story  from  Augustana  College.   Rock  Island,  1896. 

[ ]  In  memoriam.  Laroverkspresidenten  teol.  och  fil.  dr.  Olof  Olsson. 

Rock  Island,  1900. 

Nagot  om  kanslans  bildning  och  foradling.  Tal  .  .  .  Moline,  1883. 

Predikningar  och  foredrag.   Rock  Island,  1903. 

Reformation,     Socinianism     och     Waldenstromianism.      Foredrag. 

Stockholm,  1880. 

Reformation  och  Socinianism.   Foredrag  vid  reformationsfesten  vid 


Augustana  College  1878.   Rock  Island,  n.  d.   2d  ed.  1880. 
Samlade  skrifter.    Rock  Island,  1912-1916.    4v. 


Osback,  C.  R.    Minnesalbum.    Svenska  baptisterna  i  Nebraska,  1869-1919. 

Omaha,  1919. 
Peterson,  Conrad.    Gustavus  Adolphus  College.    A  history  of  eighty  years 

1862-1942.  Rock  Island,  1942. 

Remember   thy   past.    A   history    of   Gustavus   Adolphus    College 

1862-1952.  Minneapolis,  1953. 

Peterson,  Frank.   Early  days  on  the  Minnesota  Prairie.   Minneapolis,  1914. 

Femtio  ar.  En  aterblick.  A  brief  survey  of  Swedish  Baptist  history, 

1852-1902.   Minneapolis,  1903. 

Historical  record.   The  Central  Bible  Seminary.    Stromsburg,  Neb., 


1886. 
Philblad,  Ernst  F.   A  history  of  Bethany  College,   n.  p.,  1942. 
Princell,  Josephine.   J.  G.  Princells  levnadsminnen.   Pa  uppdrag  av  Svenska 

evangeliska  frikyrkan  samlade  och  utgivna.   Chicago,  1916. 

Missionar  Fredrik  Fransons  lif  och  verksamhet.    Chicago,  1909. 

Proceedings  at  the  unveiling  of  the  statue  of  John  Ericsson  in  Potomac  Park, 

Washington,  D.  C.   May  29,  1926. 
Remensnyder,  Junius  B.,  S.  G.  Youngert,  and  George  W.  Sandt.  Evangelisk- 

lutherska  kristenheten  i  Amerika.  Stockholm,  1900. 
Risberg,  Fridolf.    Afskedsord.    Afskedspredikan.    30  April  1882.    Hernosand, 

1883. 

Strodda  minnen  fran  mitt  flydda  liv.   Chicago,  1916. 

Ronnegard,  Sam.    Lars  Paul  Esbjorn  och  Augustana-synodens  uppkomst. 

Till  hundraarsminnet  av  hans  Amerika-fard.  Stockholm4  1949. 


[Root,  John].  Address  of  John  Root  delivered  at  Bishop  Hill,  111.,  July  4th, 
1899,  in  presenting  the  Soldiers'  Monument  to  the  village,   n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Rydberg,  Per  Axel.  A  memoir  prepared  for  the  celebration  at  Augustana 
College  and  Theological  Seminary  of  the  200th  anniversary  of  the  birth 
of  Linne.    (A  reprint  from  Linne  memorial  number  of  ALP,  no.  6.) 

Scandinavians  who  have  contributed  to  the  knowledge  of  the  flora 

of  North  America.    New  York,  1907. 

Ryden,  Nils.  Evangelisk-christlig  fri-werksamhet  for  skandinaver.  Ett 
tillkannagifwande.    Chicago,  1884. 

Ryden,  Peter.  En  Dalason.  Levnadsteckning  over  pastor  Olof  Bodien.  Chi- 
cago, 1914. 

En  tidsbild  fran  de  religiosa  brytningstiderna  i  Sverige  pa  1850- 

talet.   Foredrag.   Minneapolis,  1902. 

Minnen  fran  banbrytaretiden.    Cambridge,  1915. 

Svenska  baptisternas  i  Minnesota  historia.  Fran  1850-talet  till  1918. 


Utarb.  av  P.  Ryden  pa  uppdrag  av  Minnesota  statskonferens  genom  dess 
historiska  kommitte.   Minneapolis,  n.  d.,  [1918]. 

Sandahl,  C.  F.  The  Nebraska  Conference  of  the  Augustana  Synod;  survey 
of  its  work  with  sketches  of  its  congregations,  institutions,  organizations 
and  pioneers.    [Rock  Island],  1931. 

Sandell,  Alfred.  Svensk  kyrkohistorik  och  Augustana -synodens  praster. 
Deras  tyranni  och  bedrageri  afslbjadt.    [1915?]. 

Scherstrom,  Eric.  Fridhem,  a  brief  history  of  a  noble  work,  1905-1930.  Chi- 
cago, Swedish  Baptist  Home.   Chicago,  1930. 

Schmidt,  Emanuel.  An  address  delivered  at  the  banquet  given  by  His  Maj- 
esty's vice  consul  and  Mrs.  Andrew  Chilberg  in  celebration  of  the  birth- 
day anniversary  of  H.  M.  King  Oscar  of  Sweden,  January  21,  1907. 
Seattle,  1907. 

Svenska  baptisternas  i  Amerika  teologiska  seminarium  1871-1921. 

En  kort  historik,  pa  jubileumskomiteens  uppdrag  utarbetad.  Chicago, 
1921. 

Seaquist,  Carl  J.   History  of  the  Platte  Valley  Baptist  Conference,  1872-1947. 

Gothenburg,  1947. 
Sebelius,  Sven  Johan,  ed.    A  faith  for  these  times.    Lutheran  sermons  for 

our  day  and  the  influences  which  inspired  them.   Rock  Island,  1942. 

Master  builders  of  Augustana.    Biographical  sketches,  reminiscent 

and  appreciative,  of  great  teachers  at  Augustana  College.  Rock  Island, 
1949. 

Selander,  Per.  Per  Selanders  lefnadsteckning  utg.  af  honom  sjalf.  Cam- 
bridge, Minn.,  1913. 

Silfversten,  Carl  J.  Finlands-svenskarna  i  Amerika.  Deras  materiella  och 
andliga  stravanden.    Duluth,  1931. 

Halsningar   fran   hembygden;    en   resa   uti   Finlands   och   Sveriges 

bygder  sommaren  1926.    West  Duluth,  1927. 

Sisell,  A.  En  missionars  anteckningar  och  upplevelser  pa  Red  Riverdalens 
fait.    Chicago,  1926. 

90 


Skandinaviska  emigrant  hemmets  i  New  York  tjugarsminne.  New  York, 
1901. 

Skogsbergh,  E.  A.  Minnen  och  upplevelser  under  min  mer  an  femtioariga 
predikoverksamhet.   Minneapolis,  [1925], 

Snoro,  E.  Scandinavian  jubilee  album  in  commemoration  of  the  50th  anni- 
versary of  the  Gospel  to  the  Scandinavian  countries  by  Elder  E.  Snoro, 
an  apostle  of  Jesus  Christ.   Salt  Lake  City,  1900. 

[Stadling,  Jonas].   Anders  Wibergs  lif  och  verksamhet.    Stockholm,  1916. 

Stephenson,  George  M.  The  founding  of  the  Augustana  synod  1850-1860. 
Rock  Island,  1927. 

Stephenson,  George  M.,  and  Olga  Wold  Hansen.  Letters  relating  to  Gustaf 
Unonius  and  the  early  settlers  in  Wisconsin.  Rock  Island,  1937.  (AHP, 
v.  7) 

Strodda  drag  ur  missionsvannernas  verksamhet  i  Kansas  och  Missouri. 
Topeka,  1917. 

Strom,  Carl  G.,  Nils  W.  Lund,  and  Oscar  E.  Olson.  Nils  Frykman,  J.  A. 
Hultman,  A.  H.  Skoog:  Pioneers  of  Covenant  musicians.  Biographical 
sketches.   Chicago,  1943. 

Svenska  vitterhetssallskapet  vid  Augustana  College  och  theologiska  semi- 

narium.  n.  p.,  n.  d. 
[Svenska  baptisterna  i  Nebraska],    Minnes  album.    Svenska  baptisterna  i 

Nebraska,  1869-1919.   n.  p.,  [1919]. 
[Svenska  evangeliska  frikyrkans  i  Amerika].    Minnesskrift  utgifven  med 

avleding  af  .  .  .  trettioars  jubileum  i  Rockford,  Illinois,  10-14  juni  1914. 

Chicago,  1914. 
Svenska  evangeliska  missionsforbundet  i  Amerika.   Minnesskrift  publicerad 

med  anledning  af  svenska   evangeliska  missionsforbundets  i  Amerika 

tjugofemars -jubileum  i  Chicago  21-26  juni  1910.    Minneapolis,  1910. 
[Svenska  sjukhjalpforeningen  nytta,  noje].   Kortfattad  historik  ofver  sven- 
ska   sjukhjalpsforeningen    nytta,    noje    och    enighetens    tjugofemariga 

verksamhet.    Upplast  vid  foreningens  tjugofemars -jubileum  den  28:  de 

sept.  1901.    [Kansas  City,  1901.] 
Svenska   missionsforbundet   i   Amerika.    Alaska   forr   och   nu.    En    natur- 

skildring,  kulturbild  och  missionsberattelse.    Chicago,  1897. 
Svenska  teologiska  seminariet  i  Evanston,  111.    Avslutning  av  det  fyrtionde 

lasaret  vid  Svenska  teologiska  seminariet   i  Evanston,   Illinois,   den   12 

till  och  med  den  16  juni  1910.  n.  p.,  n.  d. 
The  Swedes  and  the  Protestant  Episcopal  Church,   n.  p.,  n.  d. 
Swedish  Augustana  Home  for  Aged.    Twenty-fifth  anniversary  celebration, 

1908-1933.   Brooklyn,  [1933]. 
[Swedish  Baptist  General  Conference].   Jubileumsboken.    Chicago,  1927. 
Swedish  Educational  League.    [Lake  View  Forum.]    An  adult  educational 

experiment  in  Scandinavian  tradition.    Chicago,  [1946?] 
[Swedish  Evangelical  Mission  Association  of  Nebraska].    Fifty  years,  1886 

to   1936.    The   Swedish   Evangelical    Mission   Association    of   Nebraska. 

Chicago,  1936. 

91 


[The  Swedish  Hospital  in  Brooklyn,  N.  Y.J.  Fiftieth  anniversary  1896-1946. 
n.  p.,  n.  d.  [Brooklyn,  1946?] 

Swensson,  Carl  A.  Address  at  the  dedication  of  the  new  college  building  of 
Augustana  College,  Rock  Island,  111.,  June  12,  1889.    Topeka,  1889. 

Ater  i  Sverige.   Minnen  och  bilder  fran  mina  faders  land.    Chicago, 

1897. 

I  Sverige.    Minnen  och  bilder  fran  mina  faders  land.    Stockholm, 

1891.  1892. 

[ ]  In  memoriam  Dr.  Carl  Swensson,  fodd  i  Sugar  Grove,  Pennsyl- 
vania, den  25:  te  juni  1857,  dog  i  Los  Angelos,  California,  den  16:  de  feb- 
ruari  och  begrofs  [sic]  i  Lindsborg,  Kansas,  23:de  februari  1904.  [Linds- 
borg,  1904.] 

Om  P.  Waldenstroms  nya  farder  i  Forenta  Staterna.   Ett  svaromal. 

Chicago,  1903. 

The    Swedes    in   America.     A   lecture    delivered    in    the    Amphi- 


theater, Chautauqua,  N.  Y.,  August  2,  1888.   Topeka,  1889. 
Swensson,  Carl  A.,  and  L.  G.  Abrahamson.  Jubel-album,  Chicago,  1893. 
Telleen,    Johannes.     Vara    hemforlovade    pastorer.     Synodalaret    1915-1916. 

Rock  Island,  [1916]. 
Teser  for  diskussion  vid  Augustanasynodens  mote  i  Altona  i  juni  1882.  n.  p., 

n.  d. 
Till  pastorer,  kyrkorad  och  forsamlingar  inom  Svenska  evangelisk  lutherska 

Augustana-synoden.  n.p.,  1881. 
Till  pastorer  och  sondagsskol-forestandare  inom  Augustana  -synodens  Illi- 

nois-konferens!    [Andover  Children's  Home.]    Andover,  1880. 
Toffteen,  Olof  A.  Vara  faders  kyrka.  Minneapolis,  1897. 
Wahlund,  Gustav.    Myntfragan  och  foljderna  av  vart  nuvarande  penning - 

system,  n.p.,  1896. 
Walden  College.    McPherson,  Kan.,  1905.    Chicago  [1905]. 
Wallenius,  C.  G.    A  short  history  of  the  Swedish  Methodism  in  America. 

Chicago,  1931. 
Weenas,  A.  Mindeblade.  Volden,  Norway,  1890. 
Wenngren,  Carl  Arvid.  Prohibitionspartiets  historia  med  fastadt  afseende  pa 

den  allmanna  nykterhetsrorelsen  i  Amerika.   Rock  Island,  1890. 
[Westerberg,  Fru].   Eric-Jansonistemas  historia.   Galva,  1902. 
Westin,  Gunnar.    Emigranterna  och  kyrkan.    Brev  fran  och  till  svenskar  i 

Amerika,  1849-1892.   Stockholm,  1932. 

Kyrkosamfund  och  samhallsliv  i  U.  S.  A.   Stockholm,  1945. 

Lutheraner,  anglikaner,  refomerta.   Uppsala,  1935. 

Protestantismens  historia  i  Amerikas  Forenta  Stater.    Stockholm. 

1931. 

Religionens  statsrattsliga  stallning  i  Amerikas  Forenta  Stater.    En 


studie  i  Unionens  och  de  enskilda  staternas  konstitutioner.    Stockholm, 
1931. 

Wiberg,  Anders.   Det  christliga  dopet.    Philadelphia,  1854. 

92 


Hvilken   bor    dopas?     Och   hvaruti    bestar    dopet?     Undersokning 

grundad  uppa  den  Heliga  Skrifts  vittnesbord  och  den  christna  kyrkans 

historia.  Uppsala,  1852. 
Widstrand,  Frans  Herman.    En  battre  religion;  eller  prestpackets  religion 

afslojad.   Grove  City,  Minn.,  1880. 
Wiren,  Andrew,  Nils  Olsson,  and  N.  P.  Clase.  New  Sweden  decennial  1870- 

1880.   Celebration  of  the  decennial  anniversary  of  the  founding  of  New 

Sweden,  Maine,  July  23,  1880.   Portland,  1881. 
Witting,  A.   G.    Svenskheten   och   den   akta   amerikanismen;   meddelanden 

fran  Svenska  kulturforbundet  i  Amerika.    Chicago,  n.  d. 
Witting,  Victor.  Minnen  fran  lif  som  sjoman,  immigrant  och  predikant,  samt 

historisk  afhandling  af  metodismens  uppkomst,   utveckling,  utbredning 

bland  svenskarne  i  Amerika  och  i  Sverige,  fran  dess  borjan,  1845,  till 

dess  organiserande  i  konferenser,  1876  i  Sverige  och  1877  i  Amerika. 

Worcester,  Mass.,  1901.  2d  ed.  1904. 


ARTICLES 

A.  W.  L.   "Nagra  drag  ur  skolverksamhetens  historia  inom  Kansaskonferen- 
sen."   KB,  43  (1922),  90-102. 

Abrahamson,  L.  G.   "Augustana."   KB,  52  (1931),  101-107. 

"Hagkomster  fran  Paxton-tiden."    KB,  47   (1927),  101-117. 

"Licentiat  C.  L.  Sundbeck  och  betydelsen  af  hans  resa  i  Forenta 

Staterna."  PB,  3  (1903),  100-114. 

"Nagra  hagkomster  fran  Paxtontiden."    KB,  56  (1935),  38-54. 


Ahnlund,  Francis.  "Ett  svenskt  distrikt  pa  Vastkusten."  VR,  24  (1930), 
65-68. 

Allard,  Winston.  "A  founder  of  American  psychology."  [Carl  Emil  Sea- 
shore.]   ASM,  33  (Feb.  1939),  15-17,  36-37. 

Andeer,  Carl.   "Svenska  kyrkan  av  i  gar  och  i  dag."   KB,  60  (1939),  67-77. 

Ander,  O.  Fritiof.    "Public  school  educators."    SIA,  pp.  300-314. 

"Some  letters  pertaining  to  the  proposed  Minnesota  synod."   ATQ, 

12  ([June]  1933),  137-153. 

"The   immigrant  church   and  the   Patrons   of   Husbandry."    JAH, 


8  (Oct.  1934),  155-168. 

and  George  M.  Stephenson.    "Where  was  the  synod  born?"    MC, 


29  (1943),  61-71. 
Anders,  John  Olson.    "A  first  step   toward   the   organization   of   Swedish 

Methodism  in  Minnesota  1853-1863."   SAHB,  1  (March  1928),  76-93. 

"Select  letters  to  Jonas  Swenson."   SAHB,  5  (March  1932),  50-60. 

Anderson,  A.  Axel.   "Orange  i  Massachusetts  och  nagot  om  svenskarna  dar- 

stades."    NA,  12  (1929),  8-16. 
Anderson,  F.  E.   "Barnhemsverksamhetens  borjan  inom  Augustanasynoden." 

KB,  63  (1942),  61-72. 
Anderson,  G.  A.    "Nagot  om  Augustana -synodens  mission  i  Oregon,  Idaho 

och  Washington  Terr."  KB,  9  (1888) ,  89-106. 


Anderson,  Theodore  W.  "Covenanters  under  southern  skies."   OC,  16  (1941), 
11-18. 

"Mission  Covenanters  under  the  Union  Jack."   OC,  14  (1939),  11-20. 

"Covenant  School  to  celebrate  anniversary  of  its  founding."    OC, 

6  (1931),  51-53. 

"Nagra  ljusa  minnen  fran  skollivet."    UMG,  pp.  77-80. 

"Swedish  pioneers  in  Kansas."   SHS,  10  (1924-25),  7-18. 

"Trail  Blazers  in  the  sixties.    OC,  18  (1943),  9-20. 


Andreen,  A.    "Svenska  evangeliska  lutherska  forsamlingen  in  Andover  och 

dess  historia."   KB,  1  (1880),  60-111. 
Andreen,    Gustav   Albert.     "Carl    Linus    Eugen   Esbjorn."    KB,    61    (1940), 

147-158. 

"Carl  Otto  Granere,  pioneer  teacher."   MC,  19  (1933),  116-119. 

"The  early  missionary  work  of  the  Augustana  Synod  in  New  York 

City,  1865-1866."  AHP,  2  (1932),  1-25. 

"Ekon  fran  jubelfesten,"  PB,  11    (1911),  150-168. 

"Femtio  ar  i  Rock  Island."    KB,  47  (1926),  118-134. 

"Grundlaggarnes  dag  vid  Augustana  College."    PB,  3   (1903),  293- 


298. 

"Gustaf  Albert  Brandelle."    MC,  21   (1936),  17-27. 

"Gustaf  Albert  Brandelle."   KB,  58  (1937),  25-38. 

"Invigningen  av  seminariebyggnaderna."    KB,  58  (1925),  33-44. 

"The  school  our  fathers  founded."  MC,  21  (1935),  47-53. 

"Tidiga  skolminnen  fran  Augustana."    KB,  56  (1935),  26-35. 

Andreen,    Phillip.     "California — Augustana-synodens     ortagard."     KB,    46 

(1925),  116-128. 

Andreen,  Phillip.   "Pa  historisk  mark."   KB,  48  (1927),  49-68. 

Andren,  O.  C.  T.    "Bidrag  till  Augustana-synodens  i  norra  Amerika  histo- 
ria." KB,  7  (1886),  144-171. 

[ ]  "Pastor  Andren's  impressions  of  America."    MC,  5  (1919),  30-37. 

Anrep-Nordin,  Birger.  "Dean  Seashore."   [Carl  E.  Seashore.]    ASR,  26  (Dec. 
1938) ,  354-355. 

"Aterblick  pa  Augustana-synodens  34-ariga  historia."  KB,  16  (1895),  152-169. 

B.  C.  J.   "Studentminnen."   KB,  52  (1931),  178-187. 

B.  W.    "Einer  R.  Ryden,  en  driftig  svensk-amerikan."    US,  8  (no.  4,  1946), 
20-21. 

Backlund,  J.  O.   "Approaching  the  centenary."   EB,  1  (1942),  21-36. 

"It  happened  in  1847."   AD,  6  (1947),  61-67. 

"Thus  it  began."    AD,  10  (1951),  16-30. 

"Barnhemmet  i  Vasa,  Minn."  KB,  2  (1881),  47-57. 

B[eck],  L.  H.    "Beginnings  of  Augustana  College  and  Seminary."    MC,  3 
(1917),  17-36. 

"Minnen."    KB,  51  (1930),  187-202. 

94 


'Upsala  College."   KB,  27  (1906),  66-71. 
'Upsala  College."    PB,  8  (1908),  155-169. 


Bengston,  C.  J.    "Ett  sjuttiofemarsminne."    KB,  46  (1925),  7-16. 

"Sven  Peter  August  Lindahl."  PB,  9  (1909),  117-138. 

Benson,  Adolph  B.   "Professors."   SIA,  pp.  282-299. 

"Self-made  university  chemist;   Emil   Osterberg.    ASM,  31    (June 

1937),  12-14. 

"Seven  neglected  pioneers."    [Biography  of  Lars  Gustaf  Sellstedt, 


artist;  Per  Hjalmar  Olsson-Seffer,  botanist;  John  A.  Ouchterlony,  phy- 
sician, educator  (Louisville  College) ;  Gustaf  Wilhelm  Belfrage,  natural- 
ist; Maximillian  Scheie  De  Vere,  educator  (founder  of  Am.  Philological 
Society);  Maurice  F.  Lindquist,  Civil  War  physician.]  ASM,  32  (April 
1938),  15-16,  33-34. 
"Swedish  American  leaders  in  education."    ASM,  30    (Jan.  1936) 


4-6,  37-38;  (Feb.  1936)  13-15,  37;  (Apr.  1936)  16-18,  41-42. 
"Swedish  scientists."    BASI,  5   (Dec.  1950),  16-26;  6   (March  1951), 


17-23. 

Benson,  Henry  N.  "Ett  laroverks  diamantjubileum,  Gustavus  Adolphus  Col- 
lege."   KB,  59   (1938),  9-30. 
Bergendoff,  Conrad.    "Andreen  of  Augustana."    MC,  26  (1940),  59-66. 

"Gustav  Andreen  som  skolman."    KB,  62  (1941),  33-39. 

"Reports  to  the  American  Home  Missionary  Society,  1849-1856." 

"Strong  ties  bind  Moline,  Augustana."  MD,  June  19,1948. 

"Swedish-American  educational  enterprises."   ASD,  pp.  33-45. 

"The  beginnings  of  Swedish  immigration  into  Illinois  a  century 

ago."  JIHS,  41  (March  1948),  16-27. 

"The  sources  of  the  original  constitution  of  the  Augustana  synod." 


AHP,  5  (1935),  85-106. 

Berger,  Vilhelm.  "Svensk-amerikansk  hjalpverksamhet."  Svenska  fattig- 
vardsforbundets  tidskrift.    [Reprint]  Stockholm,  1925. 

Berggren,  C.  O.  "New  York  konferensens  forsta  mote.   KB,  67  (1946),  92-96. 

Bergh,  Carl.   "Fralsningsarmen  i  Svensk-Amerika."   SVIA,  v.  2,  pp.  146-147. 

Bergin,  Alfred.  "I  Amerikas  Dalarne  eller  svenskarne  i  och  omkring  Cam- 
bridge, Minn."  PB,  3  (1903),  117-136. 

"The  Swedish  settlements  in  Central  Kansas."  KSHS,  11  (1909-10), 

19-46. 

Bersell,  P.  O.  "Augustana -synoden  och  kriget."  KB,  41  (1920) ,  72-85. 

"Sweden  looked  good  to  me."  BAIS,  n.  s.  1  (April-Sept.  1945),  2-5. 

"Bethany  College  and  Lindsborg  celebrate."   ASM,  35  (Nov.  1941),  10,  26. 
"Bethel  College  marks  seventy -fifth  birthday."   ASM,  40  (Aug.  1946),  19. 
Bigelow,  Hiram.   "The  Bishop  Hill  Colony."   ISHS,  7  (1902),  101-108. 
Bolin,    Jakob.     "Den    svenska    gymnastiken    och    dess    representanter    i 

Amerika."    VK,  2  (Jan.-March  1898),  28-30,  91-94,  138-143. 
[Bonggren,  Jakob].    "Vart  spraks  erovringar."    BF,  (1920-1921),  196-200. 
Bowman,  C.  V.   "Ansgarius  College."    SHSB,  2  (August  1929),  19-30. 

05 


Brandelle,  G.  A.    "The  road  we  have  traveled."    MC,  16  (1930),  84-92. 

"The  story  of  the  Augustana  Synod."    MC,  20  (1934),  11-23. 

C.  J.  O.  "Minnen  fran  borjan  af  var  kyrkliga  verksamhet  i  Red  River-dalen 

och  N.  Dakota."   KB,  27  (1906),  104-111. 
Carlfelt,  C.  G.    "Benevolent  institutions."    ASH,  [1]   (1943),  45-51. 

"The  immigrant  and  religion." 

"Influence  is  directed  in  many  fields  of  endeavor."    MD,  June  19, 

1948. 

"Welfare  institutions."    ASH,  2  (1945),  84-90;  3  (1948),  99-107. 


Carlson,  Anna  M.   "Ernst  Philblad."  ASM,  31  (May  1937) ,  7-9. 

Carlson,  Carl  A.    "A  scholar  errant."    ASM,  28  (Sept.  1934),  293-295,  311. 

Carlson,  C.  William.    "Augustana-synoden  i  New  England."    KB,  61  (1940), 

24-33. 
Carlson,  Chr.  T.   "Var  Montana-mission."   KB,  28  (1907),  44-63. 
Carlstig,  John.    "Nagra  Amerika-minnen."    H,  47   (1938),  41-45. 
Carlstrom,  Rev.  G.  A.    "A  brief  history  of  the  early  Swedish  settlement  in 

northwestern  Perm.,  near  Jamestown."    ASR,  3    (Jan.  1915),  44-46. 
"Celebration  of  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  founding  of  Bishop  Hill." 

JIHS,  9  (Oct.  1916),  344-356. 
Christianson,  John  A.   "The  Augustana  Brotherhood."   MC,  24  (1943),  28-45. 
"Colleges."   ASH.  2  (1945),  91-99. 
Danborn,  F.  A.   "Our  Swedish  pioneers  in  Swede  Point."   PB,  9  (1909),  198- 

215. 

"Swede  Point  or  Madrid,  Iowa.   The  second  eldest  Swedish  settle- 
ment in  Iowa.  Founded  1846."  SHS,  4  (1911-1913),  25-44. 

Danielson,  Eric.   "Our  southern  frontier."   OC,  10  (1936),  39-46. 

"Dr.  T.  N.  Hasselquist."    MC,  1  (1915),  9-22. 

Dodge,  Daniel  K.  "Scandinavian  studies  in  the  United  States."  SE,  1  (1887), 

224-226. 
"Doing  church  work  under  difficulties."   MC,  3  (1919),  56-61. 
Eckman,  F.  M.    "Femtio  ar  inom  Augustanasynoden.  —  En  aterblick."    KB, 

64  (1943),  47-56. 
Edlund,  J.  O.    "Augustanasynodens  mission  pa  Stillahavskusten."    KB,  63 

(1942),  24-48. 
Edstrom,    Aaron.     "Barmhertighetsverksamheten    i    Svensk-Amerika."     PB, 

3  (1903),  233-250. 

"Bilder  ur  det  svensk-amerikanska  nybyggarelifvet."   PB,  1  (1900), 

132-136. 
Egardh,  Johan.    "Swedenborgianismen  i  Amerika."    SVIA,  v.  2,  pp.  151-153. 
Edstrom,  Aron.    "Svenska-amerikanska  skolminnen."    PB,  4  (1904),  199-212. 
"Teologie  Doktor  Peter  Sjoblom."   PB,  10  (1910),  150-167. 

"Tre   framstaende   svensk-amerikaner."     [W.    A.    Granville,   C.    O. 

Johns,  Henry  Ericsson.]    PB,  12  (1912),  144-161. 

Egge,  Albert  E.   "Scandinavian  studies  in  the  United  States."   MLN,  3  (1888), 
66-68. 

96 


Ek,  Hj.  "Olof  Andren."   [O.  C.  T.  Andren.]    LSJ,  18  (1916),  39-56. 

Ekman,  A.  P.  "Baptismens  uppkomst  och  utveckling  bland  svenska  folket  i 
Amerika."   VK,  3  (April  1899),  171-183. 

E-l-d,  J.  O.   "Gnistor  fran  immigranternas  led."   KB,  44  (1923),  303-308. 

Elmgren,  John.  "Carl  Emil  Seashore,  dean  of  deans."  AS,  33  (March  1946), 
2-3. 

Elmquist,  O.  A.  "California -konferensen  och  dess  hem-mission."  KB,  57 
(1936),  66-73. 

Emitslof,  Nils  N.  "Silverhill.  Ett  svenskt  nybygge  i  Alabama,  en  av  Nord- 
amerikas  sydligaste  stater."   AS,  24  (Feb.  1,  1937),  8-10. 

Enander,  John  A.   "Professor  A.  H.  Edgren."  PB,  5  (1905),  18. 

Engstrand,  Frans  A.  "New-York-konferensens  barnhem,  Avon,  Mass."  KB, 
29  (1908),  64-68. 

Erdahl,  Sivert.  "Eric  Janson  and  the  Bishop  Hill  Colony."  JIHS,  19  (Oct. 
1925),  503-574. 

Ericson,  Albert.  "Det  svenska  teologiska  seminariet  i  Evanston,  Illinois." 
VR,  1  (1903),  56-62. 

"Om  den  for  predikan  nodvandiga  bildningen."    Protokoll,  M.  E. 

Kyrkans  Nordv.  Svenska  Arskonferens.    Dayton,  Iowa,  1885,  pp.  38-49. 

"Erik  Norelius."    [Erik  Norelius,  founder  of  Gustavus  Adolphus  College.] 

ASR,  4  (July- Aug.  1916),  231. 
Erickson,  C.  G.   "Upsala  College."   KB,  47  (1926),  158-169. 
Ericson,  Albert.    "Det  svenska  teologiska  seminariet  i  Evanston,  111."    VR,  1 

(1903),  56-62. 
Ericson,  C.  George.    "A  Baptist  centennial."    SPHQ,  3  (July  1952),  75-79. 

"Romance  of  a  century."   AD,  8  (1949),  13-14. 

Ericsson,  Frans.  "Upsala  College  celebrates."  ASM,  37  (Oct.  1943),  12,  28-29. 

Esbjorn,  C.  M.  "Det  aldsta  svensk-amerikanska  laroverkets  uppkomst  och 
utveckling."    [Illinois  State  University.]    MFJ,  pp.  364-390. 

Esbjorn,  Lars  Paul.  "Berattelse  om  de  svenska  lutherska  forsamlingarnes  i 
Norra  Amerika  uppkomst  och  narvarande  tillstand,  framstalld  vid  Up- 
sala erkestifts  prestmote  den  14  juni  1865."  Protokoll  och  handlingar 
rorande  prestmotet  i  Upsala  1865.    Upsala,  1865. 

"De  svenska  lutherska  forsamlingarnas  i  N.  Amerika  uppkomst." 

KB,  6  (1885),  33-51. 

Evald,  Emmy.  "Augustana-synodens  kvinnors  hem-  och  hednamissions- 
forening."  KB,  29  (1908),  102-110. 

"Kvinnornas  missionforenings  fyrtioariga  verksamhet  inom  Augus- 

tana-synoden."  KB,  54  (1933),  167-173. 

Evjen,  Harry.  "Illinois  State  University,  1852-1868."  JIHS,  31  (March  1938), 
54-71. 


"Scandinavian   students   at   Illinois    State    University."    NAHS,    11 

(1940),  17-29. 

"The  Scandinavians  and  the  Book  of  Concord."  LQ,  n.  s.  36  (April 

1906),  248-264. 

97 


Fahlund,  G.  A.    "Var  sondagsskolverksamhet."    KB,  44  (1923),  123-134. 
Fisher,  D.  W.   "Soon  he  will  be  prexy."    [Evald  B.  Lawson.]    ASM,  32  (Nov. 

1938),  13,  31,  33-34. 
Fleming,  J.  E.   "A  good  man  dies— J.  E.  Klingberg."   AD,  6  (1947),  114-118. 
Fliesburg,  Oscar  A.    "Svenska  hospitalet  i  Minneapolis.    En  kort  historik 

ofver  dess  tillkomst."   VK,  2  (August  1898),  415-419. 
Floren,  J.  E.   "Dr.  Carl  Aaron  Swensson."   KB,  26  (1905),  175-193. 
Forsander,  N.   "Augustana-synodens  inre  utveckling."   KB,  31  (1910),  41-49. 

"Dr.  T.  N.  Hasselquist  as  professor  of  theology."    MC,  9    (1923), 

41-48. 

"Pastor  Jonas  Swensson."    MC,  6  (1920),  36-50. 

"The  Swedish  mission  work  among  the  Delaware  Indians."    MC,  7 


(1921),  14-27. 
"T.  N.  Hasselquist,  en  korsets  kampe."  KB,  44  (1923),  133-150. 


Foss,  C.  W.   "Forsta  lutherska  forsamlingen  i  Galesburg,  HI."   KB,  9  (1888), 

168-200. 
"Twelve   years  at  Augustana   college."    Alumnus,   1    (Dec.   1892), 

78-86. 
Franzen,   Carl   G.  F.    "Foreign-language    teaching  in  the   high   schools   of 

Iowa."   SR,  29  (Oct.  1921),  610-616. 
Froeberg,  Peter.    "Moderforsamlingen  i  New  England.    Historisk  overblick." 

KB,  64  (1943),  85-104. 

"Upsala  College."    KB,  39  (1918),  134-146. 

"Varfor  Upsala  College."   NA,  1  (1918),  70-74. 

Fromen,  E.  T.   "Mariakyrkan  i  New  Britain,  Conn."   PB,  7  (1907),  27-41. 
Glemaker,    N.    P.     "The   philanthropies    of    Swedish    Methodism."     VR,    20 

(1922),  78;  21  (1926),  97. 
Gullans,  John.    "Lutherska  immigrant-  och  sjomanshemmet  i  East  Boston, 

Mass."   KB,  29  (1908),  69-71. 
Gustafson,  Oscar  O.   Hemmissionen."   KB,  57  (1936),  55-65. 
"Gustavus  Adolphus  College."    MC,  8  (1922),  56-67. 
Hagberg,  F.  L.    "Texas  Wesleyan  College."   VR,  23  (1929),  157-159. 
Hagglund,  S.  G.   "Den  lutherska  kyrkan  i  Amerika."    KB,  61  (1940),  47-62. 

"Svenska  evangeliskt   lutherska  New  England-konferensen."    KB, 

49  (1928),  71-77. 

"Types   of  piety   in   the   Augustana   Synod — Schartauism."    AQ,    7 


(Dec.  1928),  335-341. 
"Hagkomster  fran  1856."    KB,  11  (1890),  107-135. 

Hagstrom,  G.  Arvid.    "Carl  Gustaf  Lagergren."    EB,  1  (1942),  109-112. 
Hagstrom,  John.    "Nagra  bilder  fran  North  Park."    Aurora,   (1907),  15-29. 
Hallander,  E.    "Upsala  College."    VK,  4  (April  1900),  172-177. 
Hammarskold,  J.  G.    "Episkopalkyrkan."    SVIA,  v.  2,  pp.  148-150. 

Harkey,  S.  W.    "The  early  history  of  Lutheranism   in   Illinois."    EVR,   17 
(Oct.  1866),  526-546. 

98 


Hasselquist,  Joshua.    "Personal  reminiscences."    MC,  1   (1915),  23-25. 
Hedeen,  O.    "Pacific  Garden  missionen  i  Chicago."    VS,   (1901),  187-200. 
Hedstrand,  G.  F.   "Trail  Blazers."   OC,  9  (1935),  9-38. 
Hill,  S.  M.    "Luther  Academy."    KB,  26  (1905),  49-54. 

"Nebraska-svenskarnas     bildningsstrafvande.      Ett     litet     stycke 

svensk-amerikansk  kulturhistoria."    PB,  7  (1907),  175-196. 

"Historical  note."  [Founding  of  Augustana  Synod,  Clinton,  Wisconsin.]  MC, 
2  (1916),  9-10. 

Hjelm,  Arthur  O.  "Lutheranism  in  the  nation's  capital."  MC,  24  (1938),  9-22. 
Hoffsten,  C.  E.    "Dr.  Erland  Carlsson  and  our  early  church  work  in  Chi- 
cago."  MC,  19  (1933),  74-84. 

"Var  lutherska  kyrka  i  Amerika  i  krigstid."  KB,  40  (1919),  99-105. 

[Hogfeldt,  Otto].  "En  bild  med  aterblick  pa  halvseklet."  H,  45  (1936),  23-26. 

"'Hemat'  femtio  ar."    H,  50  (1941),  9-12. 

Holmes,  L.  "Tal  vid  invigningen  af  Svenska  alderdomshemmet  i  Evanston, 
HI."   PB,  10  (1910),  137-146. 

Hultkrans,  C.  A.  "Fabitha-foreningen,  ett  30-ars  minne."  KB,  31  (1910), 
113-123. 

"Hvilohemmet  Elim  Park,  Bridgeport,  Connecticut."  VK,  13  (May  1909), 
233-234. 

Johansson,  John  G.  "Svenska  metodismen  i  Amerika."  VR,  23  (1929), 
107-113. 

Johnson,  E.  Gustav.  "A  prophet  died  in  Illinois  a  century  ago."  [Eric  Jan- 
son.]   SP,  1  (July  1950),  8-12. 

"Geographic  names  of  Covenant  origin  in  Alaska."    CQ,  11   (Feb. 

1951),  24-29. 

Johnson,  George  Walter.   "Jenny  Lind."  VR,  19  (1921),  12-18. 

Johnson,  Gustaf  F.   "Nagra  femtioariga  minnen."   H,  50  (1941),  31-37. 

Johnston,  L.  A.   "Hvad  Augustana -synoden  i  nationellt  hanseende  varit  for 

Amerikas  svenskar."    PB,  11  (1911),  81-87. 
Jones,  Llewellyn.    "Versatile  scholar."    [Helge  Kokeritz.]    ASM,  38   (June, 

1944),  10,  29-30. 

K— n,  K.    "Ett  alskligt  herdaminne."    [O.  C.  T.  Andren.]    KB,  50   (1929), 

71-84. 
K.,  C.  J.    "Svenska  Benefit-foreningen  i  Philadelphia,  Pa."    VK,  5    (June 

1901) ,  294-298. 

K.,  S.  J.  "Julottor  i  nordvastra  Minnesota  for  trettio  ar  sedan."  KB,  27 
(1906),  91-98. 

Kilander,  K.  A.  "Minnesota -konferensens  tidigare  skolverksamhet."  PB,  5 
(1905),  121-136. 

Klingberg,  J.  E.  "Barnhemmet  i  New  Britain,  Conn."  NWP,  1  (1904),  193- 
197. 

Kraft,  Carl.  "Gustavus  Adolphus  College  fullbordar  sjuttio  ar."  KB,  54 
(1933),  118-130. 

"Two  gospel  services  among  our  pioneers."    MC,  16   (1930),  34-42. 

99 


Krantz,  J.  A.   "Utah-missionen."   KB,  8  (1887),  65-79. 

L.,    A.    W.     "Nagra    drag    ur    skolverksamhetens    historia    inom    Kansas- 

konferensen."  KB,  43  (1922),  90-102. 
L.,  C.  A.    "Ett  markligt  svenskminne."    KB,  48  (1927),  25-33. 
L.,  O.  L.  "En  av  Augustanasynodens  banbrytare."    [Lars  Pehr  Larson].   KB, 

69  (1948),  99-101. 

Lagergren,  C.  G.   "I  brytningstid.   Spridda  skildringar  fran  sjuttio  och  attio- 
talet."  MV,  (1921),  43-48. 

"Skolvasendet  i  Amerika."    VS,   (1900),  147-162. 

Lagergren,  C.  G.    "Teologiska  laroanstalter  bland  svenskarna  i  Amerika." 

VS,  (1903),  163-171. 
Lagerstedt,  N.  G.  N.    "Svenska  laroverk  i  Amerika."    Verdandi  [Sweden.] 

1896. 
Larsen,  H.   A.    "Scandinavian  colleges:    how   are   they   facing   a   changing 

world?"  ASR,  22  (March  1934),  8-20. 
Larson,  Cedric.   "Andrew  G.  Hagstrom:  Map  maker  and  educator."   BASI,  7 

(Spring  1952),  8-17. 
Larson,  Gustaf.   "Svensk  slojd  i  Amerika."   VK,  1  (April  1897),  4-8. 
Larson,  Ernest  S.   "Beginnings  of  the  Evangelical  Mission  Covenant  Church 

of  America."   OC,  20  (1945),  9-22. 
Larson,  S.  G.   "Minnen  fran  1858-1860."  ATQ,  7  (1905),  81-94. 
"Lars  Paul  Esbjorn."  MC,  10  (1924),  31-44. 
Lawson,   Evald   Benjamin.    "Chandlers   Valley   pioneers."    ASM,   35    (July 

1941),  28-30. 

"Det  var  pa  den  tiden."   KB,  56  (1935),  91-104. 

"The  old  church  in  the  valley."    [Chandlers  Valley.]    AQ,  20  (Oct. 

1941),  321-327. 

"Oldest  Swedish  settlement  in  New  England."    [Brockton,  Mass.] 


ASM,  36  (April  1942),  11,  27-28. 

"Olof  Gustav  Hedstrom."    ASHF,  (1945),  63-74. 

"Some  footnotes  to  the  study  of  our  own  history.''    AQ,  20  (April 

1941),  109-123. 

"Swedish    cultural    influences    in    Connecticut."     ASM,    29    (July 


1935),  15-17. 
Leach,   Henry   Goddard.    "Reflections   from    Chandlers   Valley."    ASM,   40 

(Sept.  1946),  13. 
"Lefnadsteckning  af  fru  Eva  Helena  Hasselquist."    KB,  16  (1895),  78-116. 
Lincoln,  Julius.    "An  vajar  Korsbanerct."    KB,  50    (1929),  12-23. 

"Andreen  of  Augustana."    MC,  20  (1934),  77-89. 

"Charities  and  self-help."   SIA,  pp.  140-145. 

"Forsta  lutherska  forsamlingen  i  Jamestown,  New  York."    KB,  29 

(1908),  111-130. 

"Nar  Korsbaneret  kom  till."    KB,  45  (1924),  7-17. 

"Radio  sermons  and  songs  in  Swedish  reach  multitudes."    ASM,  34 


(May  1940),  13,  29. 

100 


[Lindahl,  Josua].    "Josua  Lindahl.    Scientist.    Professor  of  natural  sciences 
at  Augustana  College."    [Necrology.]    SHS,  4   (1911-1913),  75-76. 

Lindahl,  S.  P.  A.    "Bbr  Augustana-synoden  antaga  biskoplig  kyrkoforfatt- 
ning?"  VK,  3  (June  1899),  307-315. 

Lindberg,  C.  E.    "Augustana  teologiska  seminarium."   KB,  43  (1922),  67-74. 

Linder,   F.   A.    "Augustana -synodens   barmhartighetsverksamhet."    KB,   44 
(1923),  49-122. 

Lindholm,   S.   A.    "Augustana-synodens   understodskassa."    KB,   30    (1909), 
125-136. 

"Augustana -synodens  pensionskassa."    KB,   37    (1916),  97-105. 


Lindquist,  Emory.  "A  prince  of  the  church.  Four  decades  have  passed  since 
Dr.  Carl  Swensson's  untimely  death."  The  Lutheran  Companion,  Feb. 
16,  1944. 

Lindstrom,  David  E.   "The  Bishop  Hill  settlement."   ASHM,  (1945),  55-62. 

Lindstrom,   Gustav.    "Norra  konferensens   triumfhistoria."    VR,   19    (1921), 

51-58. 
Lofgren,  A.  J.   "Tre  Sextioars  jubelf aster."   VR,  12  (1914),  125-130. 
Lonnquist,   C.  A.    "Nagra  ord  om  Bethphage-missionen."    KB,  37    (1916), 

86-98. 

"Vart  svenska-lutherska  arv."    KB,  46  (1925),  96-105. 

Lundberg,  F.  A.   "Det  svenska  teologiska  seminariet."   VR,  18  (1920),  16-24. 
Lundeberg,  Axel.    [Wrote  many  works  on  Swedenborg  and  his  teachings.] 

SHS,  4  (1911-1913),  107. 
Lundholm,  A.  F.    "Vara  samfundsskolor."    KB,  42  (1921),  99-112. 
M.,  P.  A.    "Minnesota -konferensens  70-arsjubileum."    KB,  51  (1930),  24-45. 

"Vara  skolor  for  var  ungdom."    KB,  48  (1927),  213-224. 

Marcelius,  D.   "En  aterblick  genom  femtio  ar."  H,  50  (1941),  65-68 
Mattsson,  Anny   K.    "Our  young   Swedish-Americans   seek   knowledge   of 

Sweden."   BAIS,  1  (Oct.  1944),  3-5. 

Melander,  Theodor  A.    "Gymnastics."    SIA,  pp.  357-365. 

Mellander,  Axel.   "Forbundets  historia."   MSM,  (1910),  13-42. 

"Memories  of  sixty  years  at  Vasa,  Minn."    MC,  1  (1915),  39-50. 

Michelet,  Maren.  "The  Scandinavian  languages  in  modern  language  study 
in  schools."  SASN,  3  (1916),  213-216;  same  topic  in  4  (1917),  75-76, 
288-292;  9  (1926),  68-73. 

Miller,  John  P.  "Monument  commemorating  founding  of  Swedish  Method- 
ism."  VR,  21  (1927),  101-108. 

"The  Mississippi  Conference."   MC,  9  (1923),  28-34. 

Mogard,  Bertil.  "Social  hjalpverksamhet  i  Svensk-Amerika.''  SVIA,  v.  2, 
pp.  156-163. 

Moody,  J.   "Northwestern  College."   PB,  9  (1909),  183-191. 

N.,  J.  P.    "Luther  Academy."    KB,  5  (1884),  96-102. 

"Nagra  markvardiga  brev  av  doktor  T.  N.  Hasselquist."  KB,  15  (1894), 
152-166. 

101 


"Nagra  tankar  med  anledning  av  Amerikas  upptackt."    KB,  14  (1893),  102- 

133. 
Nehleen,  P.  H.   "Svenskt  och  amerikanskt  kyrkoliv."   JFV,  (1924),  59-65. 
Nelsenius,  Gustaf.   "Augustana-synodens  immigrantmission."   KB,  25  (1904), 

37-52. 
Nelson,  Anton  A.    "Var  mission  i  kalla  norden."   KB,  57  (1936),  74-81. 
Nelson,  A.   P.    "Hufvuddragen  af  missionsvannernas  historia   i   Amerika." 

VK,  4  (Oct.-Nov.  1900)  492-501,  548-564. 
Nelson,  C.  J.    "Prins  Wilhelms  besbk  i  Sv.  metodistkyrkan  i  Newport."   EK, 

13  (No.  19,  1907). 
Nelson,  Frank.   "Minnesota  College.   Kort  historik."   PB,  12  (1912),  114-119. 

"Minnesota  College."    MC,  15  (1929),  55-61. 

Nelson,  Herman  G.    "Augustana's  president."    [Conrad  Bergendoff.]    ASM, 
34  (Jan.  1940),  10-12,  28. 

"Eighty  years  of  leadership."   ASM,  34  (June  1940),  4-6,  33. 

"Illinois  to  preserve  Bishop  Hill  Colony."    ASM,  40    (Oct.   1946), 

12,  24-26. 

"Los  Angeles  leader."     [Dr.   Albert  E.   Wilson.]     ASM,   37    (Sept. 


1943),  11,  30. 

"Reuben  G.  Gustavson."    ASM,  40  (April  1946),  12-13,  33-34. 

"World-famous  physiologist."     [Anton  Julius  Carlson.]     ASM,  38 

(March  1944),  11,  13,  33. 

"Young    Chicago    educator    named    to    organize    Swedish    Pioneer 


Centennial."    ASM,  41  (Nov.  1947),  16-17. 

Nordlander,  E.  J.    "Den  svensk-amerikanske  baptistpredikantens  skolbild- 

ning."    NWP,   (1904),  146-152. 
Nordstrom,  O.  L.  "Diary  kept  by  L.  P.  Esbjorn,  1849."  AHP,  5  (1935),  11-34. 

"The  Augustana  Historical  Society."    AHP,  5  (1935),  158-159. 

Norelius,  Erik.  Aterblick  pa  Augustana-synodens  historia  under  dess  forsta 

tjugufem  ar."   KB,  6  (1885),  4-31. 

"Aterblick    pa    Augustana-synodens    34-ariga    historia."     KB,    16 

(1895),  152-169. 

"Bref  och  utdrag  ur  bref  fran  L.  P.  Esbjorn  till  E.  Norelius,  T.  N. 


Hasselquist  och  Erl.  Carlsson  i  kronologisk  ordning."    TSK,   1    ([Oct.] 
1899),  244-354. 

"Dr.  Andrew  Jackson."    KB,  23  (1902),  160-198. 

]  "Dr.  W.  A.  Passavant."   KB,  16  (1895),  67-77. 

"Guds   ledande   hand   i   var   svenska   lutherska   kyrkas   historia    i 


Amerika."   KB,  7  (1886),  13-45. 

-  "Hagkomster  fran  1855."   KB,  10  (1889),  107-155. 


"Hagkomster  fran  1856."   KB,  11  (1890),  107-135. 

"Kolonien  Vasa  i  Minnesota."    PB,  6  (1906),  13-32. 

"The  mission  of  the  Augustana  Synod."  MC,  2  (1916),  11-18. 

"Nybyggarelif.   Teckningar  fran  Minnesotas  tidigare  dagar."    PB,  3 

(1903),  158-167. 

102 


"Nagra  allmanna  grunddrag  i  de  Nord-Amerikanska  kyrkoforfatt- 

ningarne.    (Med  sarskildt  afseende  pa  den  af  svensk-lutherska  kyrkan  i 
Amerika  nyligen  antagna  forfattningen.)"    SKT,  (1861),  17-52. 

"Nagra  hagkomster  fran  aret  1854."    KB,  9  (1888),  107-152. 

"Nagra  minnesteckningar.    Sjalvbiografi."    AU,  76  (July  30,  1930); 

(Aug.  27,  1931),  550. 

"Personliga  hagkomster  af  L.  P.  Esbjorn."   TSK,  1  (1899),  361-366. 

"A  sketch  of  Dr.  Hasselquist."    MC,  1  (1915),  25-28. 

"Svar  till  Herr  G.  Unonius  pa  hans  "Bihang  till  Minnen  fran  en 


17-arig  vistelse  i  nordvestra  Amerika."  TSK,  1  ([Jan.]  1899),  15-51. 

"The  Swedish  Evangelical  Lutheran  Church  in  America."    LCR,  5 

(Jan.  1886),  24-44. 

"Utdrag  ur  pastor  L.  P.  Esbjorns  dagbok.   Dagbok  pa  en  resa  fran 


Gefle  till  New  York  med   skeppet  Cobden,  sommaren   1849."    TSK,   1 
(1899),  355-360. 
"Vid  19:e  seklets  slut."   KB,  22  (1901),  66-76. 


Norman,  Carl  G.  "En  sarin  svensk-amerikan.  Rev.  Dr.  Carl  Swensson." 
VK,  2  (May  1898),  238-242. 

Nothstein,  Ira  O.  "The  Augustana  Synod:  its  history,  doctrines  and  activi- 
ties." ATQ,  22  (July  1943),  226-243;  cont.  in  succeeding  issues  through 
April,  1946. 

"Beginnings  of  the  Augustana  Synod's  work  in  Minnesota."    MC, 

14  (1928),  51-58. 

[ ]  "Dr.  Olof  Olsson  and  his  work  at  Augustana  College."    MC,  11 

(1925),  42-56. 

[ ]  "Dr.  T.  N.  Hasselquist."   MC,  1  (1915),  9-22. 

[ ]  "The  Paxton  period."  MC,  4  (1918),  19-35. 

Nyquist,  J.  P.   "Luther  Academy,  Wahoo,  Saunders  Harad,  Nebraska."    KB, 

5  (1884),  96-102. 
Nystrom,  Daniel.    "Augustana's  Kaiserswerth."    MC,  21  (1936),  43-62. 

"C.  W.  Foss,  educator  and  churchman."    MC,  21  (1935),  111-118. 

"How  the  spiritual  foundations  were  laid."    [First  Lutheran  Church 

of  Jamestown,  N.  Y.]    MC,  17  (1931),  40-47. 

"John  August  Udden,  scientist  and  discoverer."    MC,   18    (1932), 


98-103. 

"The  young  Norelius."   MC,  19  (1933),  31-48. 


Nyvall,  Johannes.   "Doktor  O.  Olsson."   KB,  22  (1901),  142-166. 
Odell,  M.  A.    "An  Augustana  pioneer."    MC,  29  (1943),  46-49. 
Ohman,  Sven  G.    "Augustana  Colleges  nye  president  fil.  d:r  Gustav  An- 
dreen."   PB,  2  (1902),  230-236. 

"Bor  Augustana-synoden  antaga  biskoplig  kyrkoforfattning."    VK, 

3  (June  1899),  307-315. 

"Ungdomsforeningarna  i  Augustana-synodens  forsamlingar."    KB, 


21  (1900),  61-70. 

"Vart  svenska  arv."  KB,  45  (1924) ,  111-123. 

103 


Ojerholm,  J.  M.  "Den  svenska  banbrytaredagen  i  Texas."  VR,  23  (1929), 
114-118. 

Ohlson,  Algoth.  "The  Mission  Covenant  College  and  Seminary."  OC,  19 
(1944),  41-52. 

Olson,  Adolf.  "Educational  work  among  the  Swedish  Baptists  of  America." 
SHS,  11  (1926),  125-140. 

Olson,  Alrick  H.    "Our  Northern  frontier."    OC,  10  (1936),  47-52. 
Olson,  E[rnst]    W[illiam].    "Augustana   Book   Concern.    Historisk   oversikt 
efter  f emtio  ar."    KB,  55  (1934),  148-186. 

"Churches."   ASH,  2  (1945),  68. 

"Colleges."   SIA,  pp.  154-180. 

"Early  letters  to  Erland  Carlsson."    AHP,  5   (1935),  107-133. 

"Olof  Olsson.    Ett  hundraarsminne."    KB,  63   (1942),  9-23. 

"Religious  organizations."   ASH,  [1]   (1943),  37-44. 

"Relikvarium.  Fornt  och  farskt  ur  var  amerikahistoria.  Eric  Jan- 
sons  epistler  till  de  Bishophillare."   UV,  22  (Jan.  1917),  16-19. 

"Vyer  och  interiorer  fran  Augustana  College."   VK,  2  (July  1898), 

336-339. 

Olson,  John  Helmer.  "Educator  and  sociologist.  [Walter  A.  Landen.]  ASM, 
36  (Oct.  1942),  10-11. 

O.,  O.  N.  "Enhetsstrafvanden  inom  den  lutherska  kyrkan  i  Amerika."  KB, 
39  (1918),  81-95. 

Olson,  Oscar  N.   "Churches."   ASH,  3  (1948),  68-87. 

"Banbrytarens  bokhylla."    KB,  67    (1946),  97-132. 

"Esbjorn  och  Soderblom."    KB,  70   (1949),  43-55. 

"New  Sweden.  —  Augustanasynodens  vagga."  KB,  69  (1948),  21-46. 

"The  human  side  of  history."   ASH,  2  (1945),  77-83. 

"The  story  of  the  immigrants  as  revealed  in  their  letters."    ASD, 

pp.  3-19. 

Olsson,  Nils  William.  "En  forgrundsgestalt  i  Chicagos  svenska  historia.'" 
[St.  Ansgarius  congregation  and  John  Mathias  Schonbeck.]  AS,  33 
(Oct.  1946),  12-13. 

"The  first  constitution  of  the  St.  Ansgarius  church  in  Chicago." 

SP,  1  (Oct.  1950),  18-22. 

[Palmquist,  G.].    "G.  Palmquist  letters."    SHS,   9    (1923-1924),  66-69. 
Pehrsson,  Per.  "Augustana-synoden  fran  svensk  synpunkt."    KB,  62  (1941), 

21-32. 
"Augustana-synoden  1942-1943."    [and  for  each  year:    1943-1946]. 

Svenska  kyrkans  arsbok. 

"Svenskheten  i  Amerika.    Nagra  resinbryck."    ARF,  (1910),  1-40. 


Perry,  George  V.    "The  Swedish  work  of  the  Salvation  Army  in  the  United 

States."    BAIS,  n.  s.  1  (April-Sept.  1945),  17-19. 
Person,  Peter  P.   "Colleges."   ASH,  3  (1948),  88-98. 
Persson,   Esther   I.    "Methodists   celebrate."     [Biography    of   Olof   G.    Hed- 

strom.]    ASM,  39  (May  1945),  14-15,  26-28. 

104 


Peters,  H.  A.    "Mina  fjarilsplancher."    BF,  (1920-21),  203-221. 

Peterson,  C.  F.    "Bishop  Hill.  Var  svensk-amerikanska  moderkoloni."    VK, 
2  (1898),  300-304. 

Peterson,  Conrad.    "The  beginning  of  Swedish-American  education."    SHS, 
8  (1922-23),  26-55. 

"Fifty  years  of  Gustavus  Adolphus  College."    Breidablick  Jubilee 


annual,  (1912). 

"Gustavus  Adolphus  College."    KB,  43  (1922),  75-89. 

"Gustavus  Adolphus  College.   En  aterblick."   PB,  13  (1913),  43-67. 

'Letters  from  Jonas  Engberg  to  Eric  Norelius."    SHSB,  3    (Sept. 


1930),  123-54. 
Peterson,  Elmer  T.   "A  flower  in  the  Buffalo  sod."   MC,  22  (1936),  70-79. 

"From  bread-pan  to  world  forum."    [Biography  of  Agnes  Samuel- 
son.]   ASM,  30  (March  1936),  11-13,  37. 

Peterson,  F.  "A.  G.  Hall."  NWP,  (1910),  191-196. 

Peterson,  Frank.   "Early  days  on  the  Minnesota  prairies."  SHS,  8  (1922-23), 
7-25. 

Peterson,  P.   "Immigrantmissionen."   MSM,  (1910),  43-56. 
Peterson,  Peter.   "Den  gamla  Immanuels-kyrkan  i  Chicago."   KB,  44  (1923), 
173-182. 

"Our   Utah   Mission."    AJ,   3    (Dec.    1894),   28-31;    (March   1895), 


101-103. 

Pihl,  G.  E.    "Svenska  kristna  barnhemmet  i  Cromwell,   Conn."    Vinterby 

fran  Ostervag,  (1909),  88-98. 
Pihlblad,  C.  T.   "Kansas  Swedes."   SSQ,  13  (June  1932),  34-47. 
Pihlblad,   Ernst.      "Femtioarsminnet    av   Bethany    College    grundlaggning." 

KB,  53  (1932),  53. 

"A  giant  of  the  earth."    [Dr.  Carl  A.  Swensson.]    MC,  14   (1928), 

24-33. 

"Ett  trettioarigt  svensk-amerikanskt  kulturarbete."   PB,  13  (1913), 


105-119. 
Princell,  Josephine.   "Ett  ungdomsminne."   H,  44  (1935),  27-36. 

"J.  G.  Princell  som  forfattare."   H,  37  (1928),  55-63. 

"Missionar  Fredrik  Franson."    SK,  (1909),  42-64. 

Quist,  Peter  P.  Recollections  from  my  school  days  at  St.  Ansgar's  Academy. 

BAIS,  1  (Jan.  1945),  11-16. 
"Reminiscences  by   charter  members   of   the   Mission   Covenant."    OC,   14 

(1939),  37-54. 
Reynolds,  W.  M.  "The  Scandinavians  in  the  Northwest."  EVR,  3  (Jan.  1852), 

398-418. 
Rodell,  Albert.    "Den  svensk-amerikanska  kyrkans  uppkomst  och  tillvaxt 

under  innevarande  arhundrade."   VK,  1  (Feb.  1897),  6-12. 
Roden,    A.     "Svenska    evangeliska    lutherska    Bethlehems-forsamlingen    i 

Brooklyn."   KB,  6  (1885),  53-59. 

105 


Ronnquist,  U.    "Har  en  svensk  lantforsamling  1  Amerika  nagon  framtid?" 
KB,  49  (1928) ,  178-186. 

Ryden,  E.  E.   "Beginnings  of  the  Augustana  Synod."  MD,  (June  iy,  1948). 

"Jubilee  of  the  Lutheran  Companion."   MC,  28  (1942),  91-166. 

Rydback,  J.  E.  "Pastor  Bengt  Magnus  Halland."  KB,  24  (1903),  151-157. 

S.,  A.  T.  "Vara  akademiers  betydelse  for  var  kyrka."  KB,  40  (1919) ,  124-127. 
S— 11,  Ruth.    "En  tripp  till  Nordamerikas  soder— Florida."    KB,  28    (1907), 

145-157. 
Sandahl,  C.  F.    "Augustana-synodens  sjatte  konferens."    KB,  48   (1927),  92- 

103. 

Sandgren,  Carl  H.  "Looking  back  and  forward."  MC,  25  (1939),  12-16. 
Sandstrom,  Harry  G.   "Upsala  College  looks  ahead."   ASM,  33  (June  1939) , 

9-11,  37-38. 
Schersten,  Albert  F.  "The  historical  and  cultural  background  of  the  Swedish 

immigrants  of  importance  to   their   assimilation  in   America."   AHP,  2 

(1932),  47-63. 
Scholdstrom,  Birger.   "En  svensk  vid  Stilla  hafvet."    [Karl  Axel  Egerstrom.] 

KN,  (1905),  94-109. 
Schon,  Anders.  "B.  M.  Halland."  PB,  3  (1903),  331-334. 
"En  storartad  donation."    [Denkmann  Memorial  Library.]    VK,  13 

(March  1909),  113-116. 

"Josua  Lindahl."  PB,  13  (1913),  185-193. 

"Louis  Sands."  PB,  6  (1906),  282-286. 

"Tvenne  veteraner."    [Victor  Witting,  Axel  Silfversparre.]    PB,  7 


(1907),  201-220. 
Scott,  Alfred  G.   "Trinity  College,  Round  Rock,  Texas."    KB,  28  (1907),  95- 
102. 

Seaberg,  C.  A.  "Svenska  metodismens  75-arsminne."  VR,  18  (1920),  11-15. 
Seaberg,  John  P.  "Teologiska  seminariets  sextioarsjubileum."  VR,  25  (1931), 

55-64. 
Seashore,  A.  T.   "Femtio  ar  i  den  hogre  bildningens  tjanst  :  Luther  College." 

KB,  54  (1933),  131-145. 

"Om  var  skolverksamhet."  KB,  43  (1922),  103-114. 

"The  fiftieth  anniversary  of  Luther  College."   MC,  19  (1933),  120- 

126. 

Seastrand,  A.  F.    "Augustana-synodens  immigrant-  och  sjomanshem  i  Bos- 
ton, Mass."  KB,  36  (1915) ,  73-79. 

Sebelius,  S.  J.    "Conrad  Emil  Lindberg  som  larare  och  predicant."    KB,  67 
(1946),  49-58. 

"Fromhetstyper  inom  var  synod."    KB,  69  (1948),  71-77. 

Setterdahl,  V.    "Barnhemmet  i  Andover,  111."   KB,  25   (1904),  31-34. 

"Pastor  A.  J.  Osterberg,  biografiska  meddelanden."    KB,  20   (1899), 

117-123. 

Skarstedt,  Ernst.    "Laroverkspresidenten  Carl  Swensson."   PB,  5   (1905),  77- 
93. 

106 


Skarstedt,  Marcus.    "Det  svenska  studentlivet  i  Amerika."    SHS,  3    (1909- 

1910),  54-59. 
Soderblom,  Anna.    "Nar  svensk  allmoge  grundade  kyrkosamfund  i  Norra 

Amerika."   ST,  14  (1924) ,  391-405. 
Sodergren,  C.  J.  "The  Lutheran  Bible  Institute."  KB,  42  (1921) ,  190-198. 

"Some  memorable  dates   in  Augustana  history."    MC,   21    (1935) , 

101-104. 

Staberg,  Henry.    "Svenska  gymnastikklubben  i  Worcester,  Mass."    VK,  5 

(May  1901),  234-235. 
Steele,  Alfred.    "Svenska  foretag  i  Amerika.    Svenska  lungsotssanatoriet  i 

Denver,  Colo."  VK,  13  (Feb.  1909),  69-72. 
Stephenson,  George  M.  "Astrology  and  theology."  SAHB,  2  (Aug.  1929) ,  53- 

69. 

"C.  W.  Foss:  an  appreciation."   AHP,  5  (1935),  9-11. 

"Religion."   SIA,  pp.  126-139. 

"The  founding  of  the  Augustana  Synod:    illustrative  documents." 

SAHB,  1  (March  1928) ,  1-52. 

Stoddard,  T.  Lothrop.    "The  Scandinavian  revival  and  the  war."    AM,  115 

(March  1915),  408-416. 
Stolpe,  Mauritz.    "Femton  ar  af  svenskt  lutherskt  forsamlingsliv  i  varldens 

andrastad."  KB,  38  (1917),  55-71. 
Stomberg,  A.  A.   "Early  efforts  at  Scandinavian  Church  Union  in  America." 

SHS,  9  (1923-24),  7-44. 

"Minnesota  center  for  study  of  Swedish  culture."    ASM,  36   (Jan. 

1942),  10-12,  29. 

"Swedish  in  American  universities."    SHS,  3  (1910) ,  39-46. 


[Stone,  E.  O.].  "Minnesota  College."   KB,  51  (1930),  46-52. 
Stoneberg,  Philip  J.  "The  Bishop  Hill  Colony."  HHC,  v.  1,  pp.  621-651. 

"The  Bishop  Hill  Colony  and  the  notes  of  the  Western  Exchange 

Fire  and  Marine  Insurance  Co."  NU,  30  (1912) . 
"Bishop  Hill  koloniens  industriella  lif."    VR,  6  (1908),  69-78. 


Stromberg,  Edwin  T.  "Immigrantmissionen  i  New  York."  VR,  24  (1930), 
91-99. 

Stromberg,  Fred.  "Methodistbilder."  VR,  25  (1931),  135-146. 

Stromberg,  L.  "Kyrkan  pa  landet."  VR,  22  (1928) ,  93-102. 

Stromstedt,  Aug.   "Biskop  Asbury."  VR,  15  (1917) ,  39-48. 

Studebaker,  J.  W.  "Scandinavians  and  Finns;  their  contribution  to  Ameri- 
can progress."   GT,  57  (March  1940) ,  54. 

Sundelof,  H.  G.  W.  "A  leader  in  Boston  worship."  [Rev.  Dr.  A.  Wilhelm 
Sundelof.]   ASM,  33  (March  1939),  15-16,  37-38. 

Sundquist,  Hjalmar.     "The   Mission   Covenanters.    An   outline  of  history." 

CM,  pp.  19-103. 
Svard,  P.  J.   "Vart  samfund."  KB,  18  (1897),  9-19. 
Swan,  G.  N.  "Augustana  Book  Concern."  KB,  47  (1926),  135-157. 
"Augustana -synodens  genesis."   KB,  52  (1931),  24-55. 

107 


"Reformationsfesten  i  Rock  Island  1878."   KB,  25  (1904),  55-67. 

Swanson,  John  A.    "A  Christian  gentleman — Jacob  Nelson."    AD,  6   (1947), 

37-42. 

Swanson,  Roy  W.  "Distinguished  in  war,  literature,  and  language."    [August 

Hjalmar  Edgren.]   ASM,  34  (Nov.  1940),  7-8,  28. 
Swartz,  P.  "Carl  Adolf  Shogren."  NWP,  (1910),  197-202. 
Swensson,  Alma  C.   "Augustana-synodens  Kvinnornas  hem-  och  hednamis- 

sions-forening."   KB,  34  (1918),  101-113. 
Swensson,  Carl  Aaron.   "Bethany  College."  FME,  (1902),  35-102. 

"Hum  Bethany  College  blef  till."  PB,  3  (1903),  78-86. 

"Nar  skolverksamheten  i  Svensk-Amerika  var  ung.    Nagra  hag- 

komster  fran  det  gamla  Augustana  College."   PB,  2  (1902),  207-228. 

"De  svenska  episkopalerna  1867  och  1904."    UV,  9   (March  1904), 


91-94. 

Telleen,  John.    "Anecdotes  and  memories   of  the   Paxton  period."    MC,   4 
(1918),  36-52. 

"Anekdoter   och    berattelser   fran   Augustana    College    och    semi- 

narium,  Paxton-tiden,  1863-1875."   KB,  43  (1922),  129-139. 

"A  remarkable  pioneer  pastor."    MC,  5    (1919),  24-30. 

"Dr.  Erland  Carlson."  MC,  7  (1921),  43-57. 

"Efter  33  och  36  ar."   KB,  37  (1916),  111-115. 

"Missionen  bland  mormonerna."  KB,  6  (1885) ,  84-94. 

"The  spirit  of  the  fathers."  MC,  6  (1920),  26-29. 

"Svenska  ev.  luth.  Ebenezer-forsamlingen  i  San  Francisco."   KB,  6 


(1885),  60-79. 
Thelander,  Phillip.    "Augustana-synodens  kvinnor  och  deras  inlagg  i  vart 

kyrkliga  arbete."  KB,  31  (1910),  75-83. 
"Three  noble  pioneers."    [Peter  Beckman,  Peter  Carlson,  John  Johnson.] 

MC,  8  (1922) ,  68-74. 
"Twenty-five  years  in  the  Theological  Seminary."    [Nils  Forsander.]    MC,  1 

(1915),  58-62. 
Udden,  Svante.   "En  minnesteckning."  KB,  52  (1931),  152-165. 
Unonius,  Gustaf.  "For  sent."  VS,  (1926) ,  199-200. 
Uppvall,  Axel  J.  "De  svensk-amerikanska  skolorna."  SVIA,  v.  2,  pp.  164-177. 

"A    Wisconsin    pioneer:    Gustaf    Unonius    and    his    recollections." 

ASHF,  (1948),  32-52. 

"Upsala  College."  ASR,  11  (Feb.  1923),  110-111. 

"Upsala  College."  VK,  12  (Nov.  1908),  547-557. 

Wahlgren,  Erik.    "Varfor  man  laser  svenska  vid  Amerikanska  universitet." 

AS,  33  (Nov.  1946),  12-14. 
Wahlstrom,  M.   "Gustavus  Adolphus  College."  NM,  (April  1898). 
Wald,  Arthur.   "Educational  institutions."  ASH,  [1]  (1943),  52-59. 
Wallenius,  C.  G.   "Fran  slaveri  till  frihet."   VR,  25   (1931),  95-102. 

"Den    hogre    skolundervisningen    bland    svenskarne    i    Amerika." 

SHS,  3  (1913),  5-18. 

108 


"Svenska  laroverk  i  Amerika."   AS,  23  (July  1936) ,  10-11. 
"Var  skola."  VR,  21  (1927),  109-114. 


Westerberg,  Thor.  "Texas  Wesleyan  College."  VR,  11  (1913),  104-108. 
Westerberg,  T.  J.   "Svenska  metodismen  i  Texas."  VR,  19  (1921) ,  59-63. 
Widen,  A.  "Bishop  Hill,  a  coming  centennial."  ASR,  30  (Sept.  1942),  216-227. 
Winberg,  Eric  T.    "Health  pioneer."     [Sven  Richard  Lokrantz.]     ASM,  34 

(Feb.  1940),  5-6,  33-34. 
Wingblade,  A.  J.   "The  Kansas  Apostle."   AD,  6  (1947),  68-74. 
Wingblade,  Henry.    "After  the  first  century— what  then?"    AD,  8    (1949), 

15-21. 
Youngert,  S.  G.   "De  nya  seminariebyggnaderna."  KB,  45  (1924) ,  65-70. 
Zetterstrand,  E.  A.   "Kyrkoherde  Per  Pehrsson."  PB,  11  (1911) ,  184-201. 

MINUTES  AND  REPORTS 

The  most  significant  sources  on  the  activities  of  the  various  church  groups 
are  the  minutes.  These  consist  of  reports,  proceedings  and  similar  records  of 
church  conferences.  Unfortunately  they  have  not  always  been  preserved, 
but  the  Augustana  Synod  is  unusually  fortunate  in  the  preservation  of 
these  important  sources.  These  minutes  of  the  Augustana  Synod  consist 
of  the  records  of  the  larger  body  known  as  the  synod  as  well  as  of  the 
regional  organizations  known  as  conferences,  and  they  are  to  be  found  in 
the  archives  of  Augustana  College.  The  printed  minutes  of  the  synod  were 
known  as  the  Augustana  Synod  Protokoll,  1860-1884;  Rejerat,  1885-1920; 
Minutes,  1921-1936;  Report,  1937-1953.  Within  the  last  few  years  the  name 
of  the  church  has  been  changed  to  the  Augustana  Lutheran  Church.  Within 
the  Augustana  Synod  an  organization  existed  for  a  time  known  as  The  Asso- 
ciation of  English  Churches  which  had  records  called  Minutes,  1908-1912; 
The  Story  of  the  Association  of  English  Churches,  1913-14;  The  Association 
of  English  Churches  of  the  Augustana  Synod.  1915-23;  Synopsis  of  Pro- 
ceedings, 1924-30. 

The  Augustana  synod  is  organized  into  many  conferences  and  their 
printed  reports  are  complete  in  the  Royal  Library  except  for  the  last 
decade  and  a  half.  The  California  Conference  referred  to  its  minutes  as 
Referat,  1888-1922;  Minutes,  1923-32;  Resume  of  Minutes,  1933-37;  Minutes, 
1938-.  Undoubtedly,  the  minutes  of  the  Canada  Conference  are  important 
too  and  should  be  listed.  They  were  Referat,  1913-1928;  Protokoll,  1929; 
Referat,  1930-1933;  Minutes,  1934- .  The  Columbia  Conference  minutes  were 
known  as  Referat,  1888-1921  and  as  Minutes,  1922. 

The  Illinois  Conference  minutes  are  known  as  Protokoll,  1878-1888; 
Referat,  1888-1922;  Minutes,  1923-32;  Resume  of  Minutes,  1933-37;  Minutes, 
Convention,  1923-1929;  Minutes,  1930-1942;  Report,  1943-.  Minutes  of  the 
Illinois  Conference  prior  to  1878  have  not  been  published  except  for  those 
which  appeared  in  Tidskrift  for  Svensk  Evangelisk  Luthersk  Kyrkohistoria 
i  N.  Amerika  .  .  .  (Rock  Island,  1899).  In  this  volume  the  minutes  of  the 
Mississippi,  Chicago,  and  Minnesota  conferences  are  published  for  the  years 
1864-1869  and  1858-1868  respectively.  The  minutes  of  the  first  conferences 
and  first  congregations  of  the  Augustana  Synod  have  been  translated  by  I. 

109 


O.  Nothstein  in  Selected  Documents  Dealing  with  the  Organization  of  the 
First  Congregations  and  the  First  Conferences  of  the  Augustana  Synod 
(AHP,  v.  10-11).  A  printed  copy  of  Protocoll  hdllet  vid  ett  gemensamt  mote 
af  Chicago  och  Mississippi  Evang.  Lutherska  Conferenser;  Chicago  fran  den 
4  de  till  och  med  9  de  januari  1853  (Chicago,  1853)  is  found  uncatalogued  in 
the  Royal  Library.  The  Minutes  of  Northern  Illinois  Synod's  Annual  Meet- 
ing at  Dixon,  Illinois,  in  1856  was  published  in  Swedish  and  is  found  among 
uncatalogued  materials  at  the  Royal  Library. 

The  Iowa  Conference  minutes  were  known  as  Protokoll,  1869-1884;  Offi- 
cielt  Referat,  1885-1920;  Official  Minutes,  1921-1928;  and  Minutes,  1929-.  The 
Kansas  Conference  records  are  known  as  Protokoll,  1870-1886;  Referat, 
1887-1923;  and  Report,  1924-.  The  earliest  printed  Minnesota  Conference 
minutes  are  to  be  found  in  Tidskrift  of  1899.  The  other  minutes  were 
known  as  Protokoll,  1870-1886;  Referat,  1887-1896;  Officielt  Referat,  1897- 
1922;  and  Minutes,  1923-1949. 

The  minutes  of  New  England  Conference  were  known  as  Forhandlingar, 
1913-1931  and  Minutes,  1933-.  New  York  Conference  has  its  Protokoll,  1879- 
1886;  Officielt  Referat,  1887-1892;  Forhandlingar,  1905-1925;  and  Minutes, 
1925-.  The  Red  River  Valley  Conference  had  its  Referat,  1913-1927,  and 
Minutes,  1928- ;  the  Superior  Conference  its  Referat,  1910-1913;  Forhand- 
lingar, 1914-1920;  and  Minutes,  1921-1950  and  Texas  Conference  its  Minutes, 
1923;  Annual  Convention,  1924-1926;  and  Minutes,  1927-. 

The  printed  minutes  of  the  Swedish  Baptist  General  Conference  and  its 
conferences  are  far  from  complete.  The  most  complete  record  is  the  Annuals 
for  the  Swedish  Baptist  General  Conference  from  1890  to  the  present  time. 
A  few  scattered  printed  minutes  are  available  for  the  earlier  years,  1879- 
1889  and  from  1856-1878  (except  1861-1862)  at  Bethel  College  and  Seminary. 
As  in  the  case  of  the  Augustana  Synod  Minutes,  the  records  of  proceedings 
changed  name  from  time  to  time.  Sometimes  they  were  known  as  Arsbe- 
rattelser,  and  for  a  long  time  as  Statistik  bfver  Svenska  Baptisforsamlingarna 
i  Nord  Amerikas  Fbrenta  Stater,  then  again  as  Arsbok  or  Arsber'dttelser.  As 
the  proceedings  changed  gradually  during  1930-1935  from  Swedish  into  Eng- 
lish they  became  known  as  Annuals  and  all  of  the  minutes  might  well  be 
referred  to  as  the  Annuals  of  the  Swedish  Baptist  General  Conference. 

But  most  unsatisfactory  are  the  records  of  the  separate  conferences,  which 
were  numerous.  These  are  so  incomplete  that  it  is  questionable  if  they 
should  be  mentioned.  Many  of  their  minutes  were  perhaps  never  printed. 
Some  of  them  might  be  found  in  a  local  church,  and  a  few  in  the  archives 
of  Bethel  College  or  Minnesota  State  Historical  Society.  Perhaps  the  names 
of  the  conferences  together  with  dates  would  afford  the  best  possible  guide 
to  these  proceedings  or  minutes  which  might  or  might  not  be  found.  These 
conferences  were  in  their  proper  historical  order  as  follows:  Tri-State  Con- 
ference, 1856-1858;  Illinois  Conference,  1856-1864;  Minnesota  Conference, 
1858-;  Illinois-Iowa  Conference,  1864-1883;  Western  Iowa  and  Nebraska  Con- 
ference, 1872-1883;  South  Dakota  Scandinavian  Conference,  1874-1911;  South 
Dakota  Swedish  Conference,  1912- ;  Iowa  Conference,  1883- ;  Nebraska  Con- 
ference, 1883- ;  Missouri  Conference,  1884- ;  Wisconsin  Conference,  1884- ;  The 
Swedish  Baptist  Conference  of  North  Pacific  Coast  1891-1894;  Swedish  Bap- 
tist Conference  of  Washington,  1894-1904;  Swedish  Baptist  Conference  of 
Western  Washington,  1904-;  Oregon  Conference,  1898-1930;  Columbia  Con- 

110 


ference,  1930- ;  Upper  Michigan  Conference,  1893- ;  Lower  Michigan  Confer- 
ence, 1893- ;  Michigan  Conference,  1884-1893;  California  Conference,  1899- ; 
New  York  Conference,  1899- ;  Middle  East  Conference,  1903- ;  Colorado  Con- 
ference, 1915- ;  North  Dakota  Conference,  1902;  Texas  Conference,  1898- . 
The  last  two  conferences  lasted  but  a  short  time.  These  conference  records 
seem  most  often  to  have  been  referred  to  as  Arsbok  but  sometimes  they 
were  called  Protokoll.  The  Baptist  conferences  were  small  and  resembled 
more  the  districts  into  which  the  Augustana  Synod  Conferences  were  or- 
ganized. 

The  Swedish  Methodist  Church  never  organized  as  a  separate  entity  of 
the  American  Methodist  Episcopal  Church.  Thus  the  minutes  of  the  larger 
body  should  be  consulted,  and  particularly  useful  would  be  the  Minutes  of 
the  Rock  River  Conference  after  1855;  the  Minutes  of  the  Minnesota  Con- 
ference after  1856,  and  the  Minutes  of  the  Wisconsin  Conference  after  1854. 
At  a  General  Conference  of  the  American  Methodist  Episcopal  Church  at 
Baltimore,  Maryland,  in  1876,  a  petition  from  the  Swedish  Methodist  churches 
of  the  Middle  West  to  organize  into  a  conference  was  granted.  Thus  was 
born  the  Swedish  Northwest  Conference.  The  printed  minutes  of  this  group 
are  called  Nordvestra  Svenska  Arslzonferensens  Protokoll  1878,  1893,  For- 
handlingar  1877,  1879-1892  Methodist  Episcopal  Church  in  America.  In  1893, 
owing  to  the  great  distances  and  problems  created  in  traveling,  this  body 
petitioned  the  General  Conference  for  the  privilege  to  organize  into  three 
separate  conferences,  a  petition  which  was  granted.  Thus  after  1893  there 
were  three  conferences  of  Swedish  Methodist  churches  and  these  were  the 
Central,  the  Western,  and  the  Northern  conferences.  Printed  minutes  of 
these  conferences  include  Methodist  Kyrkans  Svenska  Central  Konferens 
Protokoll,  1894-1927  (1906-1907) ;  Norra  Svenska  Konferensens  Arsbok,  1894- 
1928  (1911) ;  and  Vestra  Svenska  Konferensens  Arsmote;  Protokoll  Methodist 
Episcopal  Church  in  America  1894-1928  (1894-1913).  In  1901  the  General 
Conference  granted  the  privilege  to  the  Swedish  churches  in  the  eastern 
states  to  organize  into  the  Eastern  Swedish  Conference.  Ostra  Konferensens 
Arsbok  for  1901-1941  should  be  available.  At  the  Royal  Library  is  found 
Methodist  Episkopal  Kyrkan.  Protokoll  fort  vid  .  .  .  forsta  svenska  allmanna, 
delegerade  konventet  hallet  i  Evanston,  III.,  1914.  In  1928  the  three  Swedish 
conferences  of  the  Middle  West  asked  the  General  Conference  for  the  right 
to  merge,  and  as  a  result  there  was  organized  the  Swedish  Central  North- 
west Conference.  Some  of  these  minutes  are  to  be  found  in  the  Swedish 
Methodist  Historical  Library  at  Evanston,  Illinois,  and  others  at  the  Garrett 
Seminary  Library.     The  Royal  Library  files  are  quite  unsatisfactory. 

The  minutes  of  the  Evangelical  Mission  Covenant  Church  of  America  are 
complete  after  its  date  of  organization  in  1885.  These  are  known  as  Svenska 
Evangeliska  Missionforbundets  Arsberattelser,  1885-1931,  or  Protokoll  ofver 
.  .  .  1885-1890;  Referat,  1891;  Arsberdttelse,  1892,  and  as  The  Swedish  Evan- 
gelical Mission  Covenant  of  America  Yearbook  1932-1934;  Yearbook  of  the 
Evangelical  Mission  Covenant  Church,  1937;  The  Evangelical  Mission  Cove- 
nant Church  of  America  Yearbook,  1938  to  present.  The  conferences  of  the 
Covenant  Church  started  as  "mission  societies"  such  as  Mellersta  Ostern, 
Nedre  Michigan,  Nordvastra  Michigan,  Illinois,  Nebraska,  Iowa,  Nord- 
vasterns,  Sodra  Dakota,  Montana-Idaho,  Norra  Vastkusten,  California  and 
Red  River-dalen,  and  these  gradually  after  several  changes  became  "con- 
Ill 


ferences"  such  as  California,  Canada,  Eastern  Illinois,  Iowa,  Kansas,  Lower 
Michigan,  Middle  East,  Midwest,  Northwest,  North  Pacific  and  South  Dakota. 
The  lack  of  permanency  is  seen  from  the  organization  of  these  conferences 
eight  years  later  (in  1948)  when  these  were  California,  Canada,  Central, 
East  Coast,  Great  Lakes,  Iowa,  Lower  Michigan,  Middle  East,  Mid-west, 
Northwest,  North  Pacific  and  Southwest.  It  is  very  doubtful  that  these 
conferences  published  their  minutes  with  any  regularity.  No  such  minutes 
have  been  found. 

Attention  should  also  be  called  to  the  Minutes  and  Proceedings  of  the 
Evangelical  Lutheran  General  Council  of  North  America  after  1867.  A  few 
of  these  from  1867  to  1891  were  called  either  Referat  ofver  For handling arna 
or  Utdrag  af  Referat.  Of  the  above  Minutes  and  Proceedings  the  Royal  Li- 
brary has  volume  1  for  the  year  1867  and  volumes  15-19,  21-22  and  33.  Of 
these  only  volumes  21  and  33  were  printed  in  Swedish.  The  complete  title 
of  the  first  reads:  Evangelisk  Lutherska  General  Conciliet  i  Norra  Amerika. 
Berdttelse  ofver  Forhandlingame  vid  21:  a  ars  motet  i  Minneapolis  1888. 

Women  have  played  a  very  important  role  in  the  history  of  the  church. 
The  complete  records  of  the  Women's  Home  and  Foreign  Missionary  So- 
ciety of  the  Augustana  Synod  are  preserved  at  Augustana  College,  but  the 
Royal  Library  has  also  the  record  for  Kvinnornas  Hem,  och  Hednamissions 
Forenings  Arsmbte  Hallet  i  Chicago,  III.  1913  and  The  31st  Annual  Conven- 
tion of  the  Women's  Missionary  Society  of  the  Illinois  Conference,  Joliet, 
III.  1930. 

Besides  these  more  important  records,  of  which  the  Royal  Library  has 
only  satisfactory  files  for  the  Augustana  Synod  and  its  conferences,  there 
are  records  of  minutes  of  hospitals,  charitable  organizations,  and  local 
churches.  The  Royal  Library  has  Amerikanska  Bibelsallskapet.  Utdrag  ur, 
den  sextionionde  arliga  rapporten,  Maj,  1885  and  Maj,  1877.  The  reports  of 
the  local  churches  were  sometimes  called  Annual  Meeting  of  .  .  .;  at  other 
times  Reports  or  Arsrapporter  or  Redogorelse.  These  have  never  been  col- 
lected systematically. 


112 


Chapter  Seven 


RELIGIOUS  AND  SECULAR  LITERATURE 

The  literature  of  the  immigrant  was  of  both  a  religious  and  secular  na- 
ture. The  former  was  the  more  abundant.  It  consisted  of  thousands  of 
books,  pamphlets  and  tracts.  It  is  doubtful  that  much  of  this  material  will 
ever  serve  a  useful  purpose  to  the  historian  except  to  provide  him  with  an 
index  to  the  religious  thoughts  of  the  immigrants.  As  such  it  would  reveal 
the  strong  Anglo-American,  and  even  Calvinistic  influences  on  the  immi- 
grant, or  a  form  of  Christianity  characteristic  of  evangelical  Christianity  in 
America  during  the  19th  century.  It  is  obvious  that  this  literature  can  not 
be  sampled  though  it  might  have  some  value  to  future  historians.  It  is  a 
literature  which  might  be  significant  only  in  a  study  of  denominational 
particularism  as  expressed  in  dogmas  and  faiths. 

A  great  deal  of  the  religious  literature,  perhaps  most  of  it,  came  directly 
from  Sweden.  It  consisted  of  the  works  of  those  men  who  figured  promi- 
nently in  the  religious  awakening  in  Sweden  during  the  19th  century  and 
of  men  and  women  whose  names  are  not  as  familiar  as  those  of  Rosenius, 
Fjellstedt,  and  others.  The  book  catalogues  of  publishing  houses  and  book 
stores  associated  with  the  immigrants  give  ample  evidence  of  the  quantity 
of  this  form  of  literature,  which  is  not  included  in  this  bibliography.  Some 
of  it  was  imported,  other  parts  of  it  were  republished  with  or  without  the 
consent  of  the  authors  and  often  in  more  than  one  edition. 

The  dependency  of  the  immigrant  upon  the  religious  literature  of  the 
mother  country  expressed  itself  undoubtedly  in  other  ways.  There  must 
have  been  a  great  deal  of  plagiarism  by  individuals  who  were  not  conscious 
of  anything  wrong  in  the  copying  of  materials.  If  the  idea  expressed  in  a 
sentence  was  sound  and  orthodox,  to  whom  did  the  idea  belong  if  not  to  the 
church?  From  this  it  is  evident  that  the  standards  of  the  religious  literature 
were  not  high.  There  were  exceptions.  All  of  the  denominations  had  men 
who  had  secured  their  university  training  abroad,  and  in  many  instances 
those  were  men  of  great  ability  with  perhaps  even  literary  talent.  A  few 
others  had  made  the  most  of  the  educational  advantages  found  among  the 
immigrants. 

None  could  escape  the  heritage  of  the  immigrant  which  the  church  in  a 
special  sense  sought  to  preserve.  This  consisted  of  the  focusing  of  attention 
among  other  things  upon  certain  customs  associated  with  the  old  country. 
Much  of  the  religious  literature  centers  around  such  customs  as  those  of 
Christmas,  when  burning  candles  brought  back  memories  from  Sweden. 
This  religious  literature  was  characterized  by  a  nostalgia  for  the  old  mother 
country  and  a  longing  for  the  eternal  home.  But  this  was  not  a  major 
characteristic  of  the  religious  literature,  which  was  narrowly  sectarian  and 
orthodox.  It  reflects  also  strong  Calvinistic  influences  which  encouraged  a 
relentless  war  against  evils  as  the  immigrant  church  became  a  crusading 

113 


church.  Peace  was  a  dream  and  never  a  reality  in  the  controversial  sec- 
tarian literature.  At  no  time  was  all  quiet  upon  the  religious  front,  and  a 
more  tolerant  mind  of  the  20th  century  might  well  wish  to  see  the  19th 
century  entirely  forgotten,  for  even  the  best  and  the  noblest  mind  of  that 
period  seemed  to  fail  to  rise  above  the  common  religious  prejudices. 

Toward  the  end  of  the  19th  century  many  American  churchmen  had  been 
profoundly  influenced  by  Darwinism.  Humanism  had  made  itself  felt  upon 
the  religious  views  of  others.  But  neither  naturalism  nor  humanism  made 
an  appreciable  inroad  upon  the  orthodoxy  of  the  clergy  of  the  immigrant 
churches.  A  few  immigrants  affiliated  with  more  liberal-minded  church 
bodies  sought  to  win  converts  to  their  less  orthodox  views,  but  their  efforts 
largely  failed.  The  influence  of  Victor  Rydberg  of  Sweden  upon  the  im- 
migrants was  negligible.  This  was  not  true  of  P.  Waldenstrom,  whose  teach- 
ings on  the  question  of  atonement  became  the  object  of  the  bitterest  con- 
troversy. It  is  doubtful  that  the  immigrants  understood  all  the  implications 
in  this  controversy,  and  the  immediate  impact  of  the  thoughts  of  Walden- 
strom were  not  entirely  liberalizing,  though  their  humanizing  force  cannot 
be  denied. 

These  things  are  mentioned  only  to  justify  the  sampling  of  religious  lit- 
erature which  on  first  sight  might  seem  unimportant.  Thus  the  Augustana 
Synod,  though  profoundly  influenced  by  the  American  environment  and  a 
form  of  Calvinistic  puritanism,  became  in  a  strange  sense  the  heir  of  the 
Established  Church  of  Sweden,  which  it  surpassed  in  its  orthodoxy,  inten- 
sified by  sectarian  struggles  in  America.  To  an  even  greater  degree  it  be- 
came the  heir  of  the  political  conservativism  of  the  Established  Church.  The 
other  church  organizations'  origin  is  intimately  associated  with  the  folk 
movements  in  Sweden,  including  political  liberalism,  and  here  a  conscious- 
ness of  social  ills  was  more  readily  recognized. 

The  stress  placed  upon  religious  literature  does  not  minimize  the  impor- 
tance of  the  secular  literature,  but  here,  too,  the  immigrant  turned  preferably 
to  well-known  Swedish  writers  and  poets.  These  were  essentially  those  of 
the  19th  century,  and  the  interest  in  these  was  evident  from  the  shelves  in 
bookstores  and  the  libraries  of  the  immigrants.  A  striking  example  of  this 
form  of  literature  might  be  secured  from  a  study  of  the  Swedish  Historical 
Society  library  turned  over  to  the  Minnesota  State  Historical  Society  for 
preservation.  The  collection  is  described  in  the  Yearbook  of  the  former  so- 
ciety.   (See  bibliography.) 

The  preference  for  the  literature  of  the  home  country  placed  the  immi- 
grant writer  of  prose  and  poetry  in  a  difficult  position,  even  though  his  lit- 
erary efforts  grew  directly  out  of  the  environment.  This  prose  and  poetry 
was  written  in  Swedish  by  and  for  immigrants,  and  it  reflects  the  reactions 
of  the  immigrant  to  the  American  scene.  Its  chief  characteristic  was  a  dual 
love,  expressing  loyalty  to  the  country  of  adoption  and  an  affection  for  the 
old  country.  Frequently  it  sounded  a  note  of  melancholy  and  loneliness  as 
it  mirrored  the  adjustments  to  American  life.  Sometimes  it  expressed  that 
belief  in  the  future  resting  upon  progress  and  the  triumph  of  democracy 
based  upon  individual  freedom  that  was  so  typically  American  of  the  19th 
century.  Thus  old  age  and  youth  challenged  one  another  in  the  literature 
of  the  immigrant.  It  could  hardly  be  understood  in  Sweden,  and  it  could 
not  be  understood  by  Americans.    As  a  result  it  was  not  a  literature  which 

114 


was  to  live.  It  represented  a  passing  phase  of  American  history  without  a 
European  parallel. 

This  literature  cannot,  therefore,  be  easily  evaluated.  It  falls  short  of 
acceptable  European  as  well  as  American  standards.  But  it  must  be  ad- 
mitted that  it  did  not  suffer  in  quantity.  The  biographical  data  collected 
by  Otto  Robert  Landelius  indicates  that  all  the  immigrants  who  came  to 
America  from  Sweden  were  not  necessarily  persons  whose  education  was 
limited  to  a  public  school  education  and  an  ability  to  read  and  write.  A 
number  of  them  had  a  secondary  education  and  a  few  had  a  higher  educa- 
tion. They  could  perhaps  not  be  compared  to  the  German  intellectuals  who 
played  such  an  important  role  in  American  history,  but  many  of  them  like 
the  Germans  were  sometimes  hostile  to  the  church. 

It  is  the  presence  of  this  group  of  immigrants  that  explains  the  large  num- 
ber of  weekly  Swedish  newspapers  and  periodicals  in  America.  They  loved 
to  write  and  wrote  on  the  slightest  provocation.  They  wrote  under  signa- 
tures and  pseudonyms  which  seemed  to  have  given  them  personal  satisfac- 
tion while  inflating  their  ego.  These  signatures  and  pseudonyms  are  easily 
identified  by  consulting  either  Linder  or  Skarstedt.  They  constituted  in  a 
sense  a  literary  guild,  which  imposed  high  standards  upon  itself.  They  were 
one  another's  severest  critics,  and  they  did  not  hesitate  to  express  their 
sharp  criticisms.  These  men  were  most  often  associated  with  the  immigrant 
press,  and  this  eventually  influenced  their  intellectual  honesty  as  the  ex- 
istence of  a  newspaper  depended  upon  public  opinion.  Some  of  them  had 
perhaps  never  been  men  of  great  character  and  integrity,  and  it  was  not 
difficult  for  them  to  make  compromises.  This  was  especially  true  of  those 
who  had  been  sent  to  America  because  they  were  the  black  sheep  of  the 
family.  But  America  did  not  always  have  the  desired  results,  and  some 
black  sheep  continued  to  remain  black.  One  or  more  of  these  would  be 
ranked  among  the  foremost  members  of  the  literary  guild  of  the  Swedish 
immigrants.  But  even  the  poet  who  was  a  drunkard  was  capable  of  express- 
ing much  the  same  sentiments  and  longings  as  the  best  of  poets  among  the 
clergymen. 

Years  are  swiftly  passing  since  these  men  and  women  wrote  of  their  dual 
loyalties  and  their  own  experiences  in  America  in  both  prose  and  poetry. 
The  things  they  wrote  might  not  be  important  for  themselves,  but  they  are 
already  the  object  of  romanticization.  The  novelist  and  poet  of  Sweden,  a 
distant  relative  to  the  immigrant  of  long  ago,  has  turned  increasingly  to  the 
theme  of  emigration  from  Sweden.  The  children  and  grandchildren  of  the 
immigrant  are  turning  with  interest  to  literary  materials  left  by  the  immi- 
grant. There  is  a  strong  possibility  that  literature  based  upon  the  immigrant 
theme  will  develop  on  both  sides  of  the  Atlantic.  In  the  growth  and  devel- 
opment of  such  a  literature  this  guide  might  serve  a  small  but  useful  pur- 
pose in  the  discovery  of  the  literature  of  the  immigrant.  But  it  is  well  to  re- 
member that  the  immigrant  writers  of  religious  and  secular  literature  wrote 
for  little  or  no  rewards  and  for  a  none  too  appreciative  public. 

A  good  history  of  Swedish-American  literature  is  yet  to  be  written, 
though  excellent  beginnings  are  to  be  found  in  the  works  of  Skarstedt, 
Soderstrom  and  others,  and  the  articles  by  Bonggren,  Linder,  and  Swan 
are  superior.  Special  attention  should  be  called  as  well  to  the  annuals  called 
Valkyrian  and  Prarieblomman. 

115 


A  time  arrived  in  the  life  of  many  immigrants  when  they  felt  that  they 
could  express  themselves  better  in  English  than  in  the  language  of  their 
native  land  or  parents.  Yet  some  of  these  were  immigrants  in  their  thoughts 
and  reactions  to  things  both  American  and  Swedish.  In  other  words  they 
possessed  the  dual  loyalties  so  characteristic  of  the  immigrants.  Their  works 
of  prose  and  poetry  expressing  this  peculiarity  could  be  classified  either  as 
"immigrant  literature"  or  American  literature.  These  persons  represent  a 
period  of  transition  in  their  ideals,  thoughts,  and  interests,  and  they  could 
well  represent  a  second  generation  immigrant 

But  in  most  instances  the  second  generation  immigrant  preferred  to  dis- 
associate himself  from  the  cultural  heritage  of  his  parents  and  especially 
from  an  immigrant  complex,  while  the  third  generation  immigrant,  accord- 
ing to  Marcus  L.  Hansen,  is  more  interested  in  the  background  of  his  grand- 
parents. If  this  is  true,  it  might  be  expected  that  more  and  more  the  immi- 
grant is  going  to  become  the  object  of  a  major  interest  in  our  literature. 

No  writer  could  have  been  more  American  than  Carl  Sandburg  has  been. 
This  stamps  him  as  a  second  generation  immigrant,  and  it  is  only  in  his  old 
age  that  he  looks  back  upon  his  childhood  and  his  parents  and  all  of  his 
memories  from  an  immigrant  background  with  a  more  appreciative  under- 
standing of  his  immigrant  heritage.  Always  the  Young  Strangers  is  an 
excellent  source  on  the  early  life  of  Sandburg,  but  it  is  much  more  than 
this.  It  is  the  story  of  the  Americanization  of  many  second  generation 
immigrants.    It  is  an  important  contribution   to   our  immigrant  literature. 

A  third  generation  complex  and  a  general  desire  to  understand  other 
people  better  with  the  decline  of  isolationism  are  responsible  for  roman- 
ticizing the  role  of  the  immigrant  and  the  country  of  his  origin.  This  is  evi- 
dent in  the  number  of  books  for  children  as  well  as  works  of  fiction  written 
by  descendants  of  immigrants  and  by  others.  The  role  of  the  immigrant 
before  a  halo  had  been  placed  around  him  after  World  War  I  is  also  sig- 
nificant when  it  is  portrayed  by  American  novelists.  But  these  forms  of 
literature  are  an  integral  part  of  American  literature  and,  therefore,  out- 
side of  the  scope  of  this  bibliography. 

Few  immigrants  have  won  a  name  for  themselves  as  great  American 
novelists.  Among  the  Swedes  there  is  no  Rolvaag.  But  Gosta  Larsson  was 
born  in  Sweden  and  came  to  America  at  an  age  which  gave  him  deep  im- 
pressions of  the  labor  movement  in  his  native  land.  He  is  not  a  well-known 
novelist  even  though  he  might  deserve  attention.  One  of  his  novels  deals 
with  the  causes  of  emigration  from  Sweden.  The  better  known  Swedish 
novelist  Moberg  has  recently  immigrated  to  America  where  he  has  sought 
in  his  recent  novels  to  capture  the  background  of  immigration  to  America 
and  the  adjustment  to  American  life. 


REFERENCES 
BOOKS 
Abrahamson,  L.  G.   Herrens  behagliga  ar.    Rock  Island,  1914,  1915,  1916. 
Ahleen,  Reinhold.   Ballad  och  epigram.   En  handfull  lyrik.   Stockholm,  1935. 

Den  drojande  Amor.    Lyriska  dikter.    Stockholm,  1936. 

Epigrammer   och   annat.     [Poems.]     Stockholm,   1933. 

116 


Idyller  och  pastoraler.    [Poems.]    Stockholm,  1935. 

Varia:  Swedish  poets  of  the  seventeenth  century.    Some  gleanings 

from  the  Swedish  Parnassus.   Translated  from  the  Swedish  and  biographical 
notes.   San  Francisco,  1932. 

Alberg,  Albert.    Carl  von  Linne,  blomsterkonungen.    Minne  af  den  23  maj 
1891.   Chicago,  1891. 

Charles  XII  and  his  stirring  times.    London,   [1883]. 

En  gammal  djurvans  berattelser.    Bilder  fran  Londons  zoologiska 

tradgard.   Stockholm,  1905. 

[ ]  En  vadjan  och  ett  upprop  till  amerikanska  nationen  samt  till 

hela  manskligheten  i  ofrigt.   n.  p.,  n.  d. 
Almkvist,  Johan  Alfred.   [Vikingsson,  pseud.]    En  syndares  vag.   Skildringar 

ur  verkligheten.    Goteborg,  1877. 

Nykterhetssanger.   Goteborg,  1877. 

Strids-  och  segertoner.    Orebro,  1877. 

Svindlaren  i  Stollnas.     (Not  found  though  it  is  supposed  to  have 

created  a  sensation  in  Sweden.) 

"Tilltugg,"  halsosamt  for  hvem  som  halst,  men  krogkunder  i  syn- 


nerhet.    Orebro,  1876. 

Vid  branten.    Skildring  ur  verkligheten.    Goteborg,  1877. 


Andeer,  Carl  W.    Augustana-folk;  nagra  bilder  och  karaktarsdrag  ur  vart 

kyrkliga  arbete.    Rock  Island,  1911-1914.    2v. 
Anderson,  Axel.    Gnistor.    Dikter.    Rockford,  n.  d. 
Anderson,  C.  A.   Min  erfarenhet.    Chicago,  1894. 
Anderson,  Johannes.    Saljagarens  berattelse.    Chicago,  1933. 
Anderson,  Oscar  A.    [J.  Johkumson,  Jr.,  pseud.]    Kapricer.   Omaha,  1911. 
Anderson,  Otto  Emil.    Den  roda  traden.    Minneapolis,  [1928]. 

I  skumrasket.   Dikter.   1901. 

Pa  lediga  stunder.  Dikter.   1896. 

Smalanningarne.  Bilder  ur  folklivet  i  Sverige  och  Amerika.  Sang-, 

dans-  och  krigsspiel  i  fyra  akter.  Minneapolis,  1919. 

Svenska  latar.    [Poems.]    Minneapolis.    [1910]. 


Andersson,  Arthur  A.  Stoft.    [Poems.]    Winnipeg,  1934. 
Andersson,  Edward  H.    Dagslandor.    Dikter.    [Chicago,  1911.] 
Andersson,  Paul  Hilding.    Guldbrokaden.    Stockholm,  1938. 
Baner,  Johan  G.  R.   Barr.    [Poems.]    Ironwood,  1926. 

Bragemal.    [l-]2.    [Poems.]    Ironwood,  1911. 

Diagrams.    [Poems].   Ironwood,  1915. 

"Duluth."    [Poems.]    Ironwood,  1915. 

Flakes.  [Poems.]    Ironwood,  n.  d. 

Harnad.    [Poems.]    Ironwood,   [1914]. 

Iduna  and  Bragi.    [Poems.]    Ironwood,   [1914?] 

Keshena.     ("Keshi'ne    Pimog'ne" — Swift-flyer's   flights.)      A    Me- 

nominee-Indian  allegory.    Ironwood,  1923. 

117 


Loke.    [Poems.]     Ironwood.    [1912?] 

Namesakes.     The    Ojibway    Indian    legend    "Kitch-iti-Ki-pi"    by 

Inaqtik  Atanoqken   (Raven  Legendbard).    Winnipeg,  1923. 

Opiater  och  granater.    [Poems.]     Ironwood,   [1914]. 

Runes  and  ripples.    [Poems.]    Ironwood,  n.  d. 

Viking  Mettles;  Vikings  on  Lake  Superior  early  in  the  eleventh 


century,  [Poems.]    Ironwood,  n.  d. 

Benediction,  Sister.    [Mrs.  Gustaf  Stromberg].  Fran  solljusa  strander.   Dik- 
ter.   Minneapolis,  [1940]. 

[ ]  Dromda  varldar.   Dikter.   Minneapolis,  n.  d. 

Berg,  Ruben  G:son.    C.  J.  L.  Almquist  i  landsflykten  1851-1866.    Stockholm, 
1929. 

Berger,  Vilhelm.    [Felix  Vivo,  pseud.]    Emigrant-oden  tecknade.  New  York, 
1904. 

En  hjarnarbetares  funderingar.    [New  York,  1934.] 

En  nave  svensk-amerikanskt.    Aforismer.    New  York,  [1937]. 

Glad  och  hungrig.  Minnen  fran  mitt  hundar  i  Amerika.  New  York, 


[1936]. 
Hjelp  dig  sjelf.    Svensk-amerikanskt  lustspel.   New  York,  1903. 

Hundar  och  lyckodagar  tecknade.   New  York,  1905. 

Hvardags-handelser  tecknade.   Boston,  1903. 

Pytt  i  panna.    Svensk-amerikanska  berattelser.    Worcester,  1912. 

Ratt  och  slatt.    Svensk-amerikanska  berattelser.    Boston,  [1902]. 

Svenska  folklynnet  i  forskingringen.    En  studie.    New  York,  1924. 

Svensk -Amerika  i  malbrottet.    New  York,  1933. 

Svensk-amerikanska  meditationer.    Rock  Island,  1916. 

Svensk-amerikanska  spraket.   Ett  bidrag  till  kannedom  om  engel- 

ska   sprakets   inflytande   pa   svenska   spraket   i   Amerika.     New   York, 
[1934]. 

Ungdomskarlek.    Svensk-amerikansk  novell.    Worcester,   1908. 


Bergin,    Alfred.    Under   furor   och   palmer.     Reseintryck    fran    Europa    vid 

varldskrigets  borjan.    Chicago,  1916. 
Bergqvist,  Olof.    Sune  Vegult.    En  svensk-amerikansk  roman.    Stockholm, 

1908. 
Bergstedt,  Salomon.    Ljungblommor.    Dikter.    Minneapolis,  1897. 
Bergstrbm,  Aron.   Fran  ljus  genom  skuggor  till  ljus  eller  "De  hem  vi  lam- 

nade  och  de  hem  vi  vunno."   Rock  Island,  1925. 
[Bjbrklund],  A.  P.    Lifvets  skiften.   Superior,  1891. 

Bjorkman,  J.  P.  Allvar  och  skamt.   Blandade  dikter.  Springfield,  Mass.,  1901. 
Bloom,  Fredrik  A.   Hvita  svanor.    Blandade  dikter.    Chicago,  1916. 

Vagskvalp.    Dikter  och  Sanger.    Omaha,  1898. 

Boas,  Ralph  P.,   and  Kathcrine   Burton.    Social   backgrounds  of   American 

literature.    Boston,  1933. 

118 


Bonggren,  Olof  Jakob.  [Volontaire,  pseud.]  Bibeln  mot  Bibeln.  Oumbar- 
lig  handbok  for  alia,  hvilka  komma  i  beroring  med  bibeldyrkare.  Stock- 
holm, 1879. 

Forstlingar.  En  samling  dikter.    [Intr.  by  V.  Rydberg  and  G.  Bran- 

des.]    Stockholm,  1882. 

Lasarlif.    En  samling  smarre  uppteckningar  af  Spectator.    Stock- 


holm, 1879. 

The  occultist's  seven  rules.    Chicago,  1921. 

The  philosophy  of  occultism.    Chicago,  1921. 

Second  coming  of  Christ,   n.  p.,  1911. 

Sanger  och  sagor.  En  samling  dikter.    [The  author's  portrait  drawn 


by  Anders  Zorn.]   Rock  Island,    [1902], 
Bowman,  Charles  Victor.    Allmogesonen.    Chicago,  1926. 
Brodeen,  J.  S:son.    Flyttfagelslatar.    Diktforsok.    Falk oping,  1904. 

Hyllningsdikt  till  Hans  Majestat  Oscar  II  ...  75  ars-jubileum  den 

21  januari  1904.   Falkoping,  1904. 

Hyllningsverser  till  H.  M.  Konung  Gustaf  V  af  Sverige  ...  pa 


Konungens  50-ars-dag  den  16  juni  1908.    Nora,  1908. 
Callerstrom,  Selma  Olivia.   Dikter.    Gowrie,  Iowa,  1912. 
Carlson,  E.  Manfred.   Prarieblommor.    [Poems.]  n.  p.,  [1914]. 
Carlson,  Johan  Sven.   Amerikas  siste  svensk.   Minneapolis,  1908. 

Giv  akt!    Hvarfor  bora  vi  bibehalla  och  bevara,  varda  och  bruka 

svenska  spraket  i  Amerika?    [Minneapolis],  1923. 

Om   historien   och   den   historiska   kunskapens    betydelse    for    den 


manskliga  utvecklingen.   n.  p.,  [1924]. 

Tre  trevliga  visor  i  oversattning.    n.  p.,  [1924], 


Carlson,  O.  Loftet,  landet  och  besittningen.   Minneapolis,  [1907]. 
Carlson,  Ruth.  Langtan.   Dikter.   n.  p.,  n.  d. 
Carlsson,  K.  Alex.  Delisa  blaa  bok.   Chicago,  1951. 

I  6st-  och  vasterled.    Berattelser.    Chicago,  1946. 

Cederblad,  Carl  Herman.    Silver  och  gratt.    Dikter.    Visby,  1933. 

Vagspel.   Dikter.    [Chicago,  1922.] 

Colling,  Frithiof.   Dar  igen.  [U.  S.  A.]  n.  p.,  n.  d. 

I  Sverige  och  Amerika.    Hvarjehanda  smabitar  af  Vandringsman. 

Tidaholm,  1906. 

Mister  Colesons  Sverige-resor.    [U.  S.  A.]  n.  p.,  n.  d. 


Dahl,  K.  G.  William.   Hedens  barn.   Malmo,  1913. 

Dahlen,   Carl   O.    I   allvarstider.    Fosterlandska   tankar  med   anledning   av 
svenska  folkfesten  den  6  november  1914,  Denver,  Colo.   n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Solljus  och  sang.  Dikter.    [U.  S.  A.]  n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Toner.   Dikter.    [U.  S.  A.]  n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Edgren,  August  Hjalmar.   Blaklint.  Ny  diktsamling.   Stockholm,  1894. 

Brustna  aterljud.  Dikter.  Stockholm,  1904. 

Dikter  av  Tennyson,   n.  p.,  [1902]. 

119 


Dikter  i  original  och  ofversattning.   Lund,  1884. 

Sommarferier  i  Montezumas  land.    Stockholm,  1898. 

Ur  Amerikas  skonlitteratur.    Goteborg,  1878. 

Edgren,  J[ohan]  A[lexander].    Efter  doden.    En  skrift  for  folket.    Chicago, 

1874. 
Elgstrom,  Ossian.   "Chicagoboheme."   13  noveller.    Stockholm,  1924. 
Elmblad,  Magnus  Henrik.    [Anders  Nilsson,  pseud.]    En  svensk  sang  om  den 

stora  branden  i  Chicago.    Chicago,  1872. 

Fosterlandska  sanger.    Stockholm,  1871. 

Gunnar  och  Anna  eller  nybyggarne.    Folkdikt  i  tre  sanger.    Chi- 
cago, [1880?] 

Samlade  arbeten.   Minneapolis,  1890. 

Samlade  dikter.    Chicago,  1878.    2d  ed.    Stockholm,  1889. 


Enander,  Joh.  A.  Forenta  Staternas  historia,  utarbetad  for  den  svenska  be- 
folkningen  i  Amerika.    Chicago.   1874-1880.    6v.,  2d  ed.  1882.    4v. 

Mormonismens  historia  fran  sektens  uppkomst  till  narvarande  tid. 

Wenersborg,  1865. 

Nordmannen  i  Amerika   eller  Amerikas   upptackt.    Historisk   af- 


handhng  med  anledning  av  Columbifesterna  i  Chicago  1892-93.    Rock 
Island,  1893. 

,ed.    Ur  svenska  sangen  under  19:  e  seklet  samt  blad  ur  den  sven- 
ska sangens  historia.   Rock  Island,  [1901]. 

Valda  skrifter.    Chicago  and  Rock  Island,  1892. 

Vara  faders  sinnelag.   Stockholm,  1894. 

,  ed.  Eterneller  och  varblommor.    [A  collection  of  poems  by  Swed- 


ish authors.] 
Erikson,  Gustaf.  Bethania -sanger.   Wenona,  111.,  1907. 

Fyrvapplingen.    [With  Berndt  Emil  Bengtson,  S.  M.  Hill  and  C.  A. 

Lonnqvist.]  n.  p.,  1911. 

Hvilen  eder  nagot  litet.    Predikosamling.    [Chicago,  1912.] 

Minnen  och  bilder  fran  hembygden.  Wenona,  111.,  1906. 

Nar  juleljusen  brinna.  Korta  betraktalser  i  signid  adventstid.  Bert- 


rand,  Neb.,  1911. 

Under  Elims  palmer.  Predikningar  och  sanger.    [Chicago,  1913.] 


Eriksson,   Hulda.     [Leonora,  pseud.]     Vildblommor  fran   den   stora   angen. 

Chicago,  1913. 
Fliesburg,  Oskar  Alfred.    Cristoforo  Colon.    St.  Paul,  1893. 

Vildrosor  och  tistlar.    Minneapolis,  1899. 

Fosterlandska  minnen  i  ord,  sang  och  bild  tillegnade  svenskarna  i  Amerika. 

Chicago,  [1894?] 
Fredenholm,  Per  Axel.  Dikter.  New  Britain,  1918. 

Korset  och  klingan  med  flera  dikter.    Jbnkoping,  1920. 

Purpur  och  hemspunnet.   Seattle,  1909. 

Roda    runor.     Berattelser    ur    nybyggarlivet    i    Amerika.     Orebro, 

1924-25.   2v. 

120 


Toner  och  tankar.    Valda  stycken  af  vers  och  prosa.    Worcester, 

[1912]. 

Fredenholm,  Thorild.    Smalandsvisor  och  andra  dikter.    Stockholm,  1934. 

Fyrvaplingen.   Valda  stycken  af  B.  E.  H.  L.    [Bernd  Emil  Bengtson,  Gustav 
Erikson,  Samuel  Magnus  Hill,  Carl  Adolf  Lonnquist]    Omaha,  [1911]. 

Grafstrom,  Axel  Viktor.   Skanska  baron.  Stockholm,  1915. 

Granholm  [-Hedenheim],  Elin  Edith.    Toner.    Wasa  [Finland],  1925. 

Hallgren,  Johan.    Harnadstag.    Philadelphia,  [1899?] 

Hamilton,  Joseph  G.   Bror  Erik.    En  bild  ur  Chicagolifvet.    2d  ed.    Chicago, 

1932. 
Hasselquist,  T.  N.   Dagliga  betraktelser  for  den  husliga  andakten.   Saml.  ur 

T.  N.  Hasselquists  skrifter.    Rock  Island,  1918. 

Forsok  till  en  grundlig  och  dock  lattfattlig  forklaring  af  Pauli  bref 

till  Efesarna.   Rock  Island,  1887. 

Hed-Larson,  Anders.   Blaklockor.   Diktforsbk.    St.  Paul,  1912. 

Hellberg,  Karl.    Vastanflakt.    Dikter.    Minneapolis,  [1926]. 

Hemdahl,  G.  E.  Halsningar  fran  Medelhavets  strander.   Rock  Island,  1911. 

Hendin,  C.  G.   "Kapphastens"  lefnadsoden.   Denver,  1911. 

Henrikson,  Ebba.   Konflikter.    Novell.    New  York,  1944. 

Pa  gott  och  ont.   Romantisk  skildring.    New  York,  1940. 

Ljus  pa  vagen.   Bibliska  betraktelser.   Chicago,  1914. 

Vandring  med  Jesus.   Bibliska  betraktelser.    Chicago,  [1915]. 

Hessell,  Theodore  A.    Farbror  Slokums  memoarer  upptecknade  av  honom 

sjalv.  Chicago,  1909. 
[Hill,  Samuel  Magnus  Samuelsson].    Uggletoner  i  vargatider.    Af  S.  M.  S. 

Portland,  Oregon,  [1916]. 
Higgins,  Gus.    Gladt  humor.    Lifvade  humoresker  pa  vers  och  prosa  med 

roliga  gubbar.   Chicago,  1903. 
Hillberg,  John  Emanuel.    Bilder  fran  bibel-lander.    Chicago,   [1905]. 

Jag  maste  se  Rom.  n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Nar  ljuset  brot  fram.   n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Hillstrom,  Ernst.   Poetiska  drombilder  och  dikter.    Chicago,  1914. 
Hofstrand,  C.  O.    Gudarnes  flyttning  till  Canada.    Stockholm,  Sask.,  1908. 

Kamereraren  eller  hofmannen  fran  Etiopia.  Stockholm,  Sask.,  1908. 

Hogfelt,  Otto.   Minnen  och  toner.   Chicago,  [1913]. 

Till  Rom  och  faderneslandet.    Chicago,  1911. 

Hogstrom,  E.    Sveriges  historia  i  harpolekar.    Rock  Island,  1900. 
Holmes,  Ludvig.  Dikter.   Rockford,  1896. 

Nya  dikter.   Rock  Island,  1904. 

Hult,  Anders.  En  familjesstjerna.  Chicago,  1891. 
Ingvall,  Aron.   Allvar  och  lojen.   n.  p.,  1897. 

Till  vanskapen.   Brooklyn,  1919. 

Varbrodd.    [Poems.]    Brooklyn,  1902. 

121 


Jakobson,  Elis  Isidorus.    Clairvoyance  och  psykometri.    n.  p.,  1890. 

Ur  naturens  hemligheter.    n.  p.,  1893. 

Johanson,  Albert.  Torpar-Jonas  berattelse.  Johan  handlingsman.  Linkoping, 
1922. 

Turturdufvans  rost.    Malmo,  1893.    2v. 

Uppenbarelsens  angel  eller  de  yttersta  tingen  .  .  .  Minneapolis,  n.  d. 

Angsblommor.    Minneapolis,  1916. 


Johanson,  Maria.   Skovlad  lycka.    [Poems.]    n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Stjarnor  i  natten.    [Poems.]    n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Johnson,  Charles  A.    Poetiska  forsok.    Los  Angeles,  1925. 

Johnson,  C.  F.    Den  enfaldige  smalanningen,  lustspel  med  sang  i  4  akter 

och  2  tablaer.   Duluth,  1875. 
Johnson,  Emma.  Karlekens  seger  och  andra  berattelser.  Hartford,  1919. 

[ ]  Solstralar  i  hvardagslifvet.    [Poems.]    Seattle,   [1906?]. 

Johnson,  Gottfrid.   Dikter.   n.  p.,  1892. 

Johnson,  J.  O.   Samlade  dikter.    Chicago,  n.  d. 

Johnson,  Louise.   Versstumpar  pa  skamt  och  allvar.   n.  p.,  1912. 

Julberattelser  for  ung  och  gammal.  Med  sju  illustrationer.  Rock  Island,  n.  d. 

Julbok.    Sondagsskolans  julbok  innehallande  stycken  for  deklamation  och 

dialoger  att  anvandas  vid  sbndagsskolfesterna.   Rock  Island,  1885-1910. 
Julefrid  och  julefrbjd.  Tavlor  och  berattelser  for  de  sma.   Rock  Island,  1914. 
Kjellberg,  Isidor.   Dikter.  Linkoping,  1878. 

En  fyrwapling,  upptagande  portratter,  jemte  text,  af  fyra  Ostgotar, 

aktade  folkombud  wid  riksdagen.   Linkoping,  1875. 

Rim  vid  den  Skandinaviska  foreningens  invigningsfest.    St.  Paul 


den  14  September  1870.   n.  p.,  n.  d. 
Stycken  pa  vers  och  prosa.    Linkoping,    1895. 


Klingberg,  J.  E.   Litteraturhistoriska  studier.    New  Britain,  [1933]. 

Dikter.  New  Britain,  n.  d. 

Landen,  Lars  Hjalmar.   Roster  ur  djupet.   Dikter.   Oakland,  1919. 

Trotsare  och  drommare.    Engelska  och  amerikanska  skaldstycken. 

Sundsvall,  1926. 

Landfors,  Arthur.   Fran  smaltugnen.    [Poems.]    Stockholm,  1932. 
Larka,  Per  Anders  Daniel.  I  fjarran  vastern.   Seattle,  1921. 

I  urskogen.    Seattle,  1923. 

Jorden  runt  genom  luften.   Seattle,  1928. 

Karlekens  dubbelseger.    Minneapolis,  1894. 

Leonard,  Minnie.    Varblommor.    En  samling  poem  och  deklamationsverser. 

Minneapolis,  1910. 
Le  Veau,  Axel  M.    Nordbon  i  Amerika  eller  Minnen  fran  forsvunna  och 

narvarande  sekler.    [Poems.]    n.  p.,  1892. 
Liljengren,  Johan  Adolph.  Faststamning.   En  samling  originella  dialoger  .  .  . 

Worcester,  [1909?] 

122 


[ ]  Kolportorens  berattelser.    Tecknade  efter  meddelanden  fran  Per 

E.  Stenberg  af  Adolph.   Winnipeg,  [1920]. 

Lindblad,  Lina.  Thureby  prestgard  eller  fadernas  missgarningar.  [Minne- 
apolis?], 1924. 

Lindahl,  S.  P.  A.  En  ropandes  rost.  Ett  urval  betraktelser  for  kyrkoarets 
sondagar.  Rock  Island,  1910.  2:a  uppl.   Stockholm,  1913. 

Lindberg,  August.  En  monografi.  Den  svensk-amerikanska  pressen  tillag- 
nad.  Stockholm,  1911. 

Lindberg,  P.  A.    Adam.    En  berattelse.    Chicago,  1899. 

Lindberg,  Walter.  Mot  det  hagrande  landet,  dikter  och  drommar.  New 
York.   n.  d.,  [1896?]. 

Lindblom,  Ernst  Ludvig.  Den  svensk-amerikanske  Sherlock  Holmes.  Stock- 
holm, 1908. 

"En  sup  till  fisken."  Skamt  och  allvar  fran  Yankeelandet.  Stock- 
holm, 1909. 

Mina  teateraftnar.     Stockholm,  1917. 

Pa  forsok.   Fern  svensk-amerikanska  dikter.    Chicago,  1888. 

Stjarnbanerets  land.   Tankar  i  bunden  form.    Stockholm,  1910. 

Soderamerikaner.   Humoresker.   Stockholm,  1914. 


Linder,  Oliver  A.    Glada  grin.    Stycken  pa  vers  och  prosa  af  Olle  Bark. 
Ironwood,  1891. 

I  Vasterland.   Stycken  pa  vers  och  prosa.  Rock  Island,  1914. 

John  Morton.  En  af  revolutionsperiodens  svensk-amerikaner.  Rock 


Island,  n.  d. 
Lindgren,  Anna  J.   Ester  Vinge.   Stockholm,  1929.   2d  ed.  1930. 
Lindmark,  Carl  Johan.    Dikter.    Chicago,  1924. 
Lindstrand,  Frans  Albin.   Pennteckningar  och  reseskildringar  af  Onkel  Ola. 

Chicago,  1898. 

I  oster-  och  vasterland  .  .  .  Chicago,  1899. 

Linnaea.  Poetiskt  album  af  svensk-amerikanska  publicister  i  Chicago.  Chi- 
cago, 1887. 

Lofgren,  Svante  Emanuel.  I  fjarran  vastern.  [Foreword  by  Ernst  Skar- 
stedt.]   Seattle,  Wash.,  1921. 

I  urskogen.  Seattle,  Wash.,  1923. 

Jorden  runt  genom  luften.   Seattle,  1928. 

Lonnquist,  C.  A.   Dikter  af  Teofilus.   Rock  Island,  1907. 

"Och  jag  sag  det  nya  Jerusalem."    Ord  vid  baren.    Rock  Island, 

1919. 

Sundet  vid  Treskar  och  andra  dikter.    Malmo,  1913. 

Vildros.   Ett  nytt  knippe.    Rock  Island,  1916. 


Lonnqvist,  Fred.  De  hem  vi  lemnade  och  de  hem  vi  funno.  Det  pittoreska 
Sverige  och  det  pittoreska  Amerika  .  .  .  Philadelphia,  1893. 

Lund,  Emil.  Hoga  visan.  The  songs  of  songs.   Chicago,  1892. 

Lundblad,  Sven.  Verskronika  om  Svenska  klubben,  Seattle,  Washington, 
1892-1907.   Seattle,  1908. 

123 


Lundeberg,   Axel.    Emanuel   Swedenborg   och   hans    inflytande    i    Amerika. 
Minneapolis,  1911. 

[ ]  Involuntary  helpers  of  Christianity  by  John  Mauritz.  n.  p.,  n.  d. 

John  Johnsons  hemkomst  fran  Amerika.    Chicago,  1907. 

Lif  och  helsa.   Ett  ord  till  foraldrar  och  malsman.    Stockholm,  1877. 

Sanger.    Minneapolis,  1890. 

Malm,  G.  N.  Charli  Johnson,  svensk-amerikan.  Verklighetsbild  ur  folklifvet 
bland  svenskarne  i  Vestern  pa  1890-talet.   Chicago,  1909. 

Harute;  verklighetsbild  ur  en  svensk-amerikanares  hvardagslif  i 

fyra  akter.  Lindsborg,  1919. 

Malmquist,  Axel  Frithiof.  Tornen  och  tistlar.    [Poems.]    [Chicago?],  1899. 
Malmquist,  Marie  V.  Dikten  Kristina.  Tillegnad  H.  K.  H.  kronprinsessan  .  .  . 

n.  p.,  [1926]. 
Fargodlaru    [Poems.]    Tillegnad  mitt  hemland  Sverige.    Jemtland, 

Maine,  [1919]. 

Forest  echoes.   Verse.  Jemtland,  Maine,  1920. 

A  message.  Verse.  Boston,  1919. 

Salamandern.    [Poems.]   Brockton,  Mass.,  n.  d.  [1919]. 


Malmstedt,  Frank  L.  Skildringar  och  reseaventyr.  n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Marcelius,  D.  Svart  pa  vitt.   [Poems.]   Chicago,  1932. 

Miller,  P.  H.  Blad  och  blommor.  Dikter.   Rock  Island,  1925. 

Modig,  Andrew.    Purpurstank  pa  aftonsky.    En  samling  poem  for  nytta  och 

noje.  Beresford,  S.  D.,  1911. 
Nelson,  A.  P.,  ed.    Fran  nar  och  fjarran.    Med  bidrag  af  flera  predikanter. 

Boston,  [1898]. 
Nelson,  Henning.  En  vandrares  sanger.   Chicago,  1945. 
Nelson,  J.  P.  Smaplock,  vers  och  prosa.  Brockton,  n.  d. 
Nonnen,  E.  Adel  vanskap.  Berattelse.  Rock  Island,  1908. 
Nordling,  E.    Det  tusenariga  riket.     [With  supplement.]     Bishop   Hill,   111., 

n.  d. 
Nordling,  Sophie.  Genom  lifvets  branningar.  Chicago,  1918. 

Verkmastaresonen  och  Anita,  n.  p.,  1926. 

Nordstedt,  Georg.  Den  galne  berattar.  n.  p.,  1926. 

Norlander,  Emil.    Anderssonskans  Kalle.    Pojkprat  och  karingsqvaller  .   .   . 

med  originaltecknighar  af  Gus  Higgins.  Chicago,  n.  d. 
Norman,  Carl  Gustaf.  Emigrantens  sanger.  Chicago,  1914. 
Nyvall,  David.  Jesus  Nasareen.  En  hjaltedikt.  Chicago,  [1912?]. 

Medsols.  Tre  fosterlandska  tal  mina  landsman  i  Amerika  tillegnade. 

Chicago,  1898. 

Skogsdrillar.   En  samling  lyriska  dikter.   Chicago,  1901. 

Vers  och  saga.   En  liten  julbok  for  barn.   Minneapolis,  1890. 

Via  dolorosa  (Smartevagen)  eller  Fariseernas  skugga  pa  Jesu  vag. 


Minneapolis,  1926. 

Via  regia  (Den  kungliga  vagen) .   Stockholm,  1926. 


124 


Via  vitalis   (Vagen  som  ar  liv) .    En  fortsattning  till  Via  dolorosa. 

Minneapolis,  1929. 

Ohlman,  Oscar  A.  Fragment.  Jamestown,  1912. 

Olander,  Gustaf.  Brief  stories,  n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Olofson,  A.   I  gryningstid.   Dikter.   Worcester,  1905. 

Olson,  Ernst  W.    Bobby  Beggum's  birthday  and  other  stories.    Written  and 

compiled  for  little  readers.  Rock  Island,  n.  d. 
[ ]  Charley  Washington.  Shederetkomedi  av  E.  Dobbelju.   n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Valda  dikter.   Upsala,  1947. 

Olson,  Ethel  Pinegar.  Delight.  Kansas  City,  [1931?]. 

Olsson,  Alexander.    [Zanders,  pseud.]    Kallprat.   Med  forord  af  Ernst  Skar- 
stedt.   San  Francisco,  1895. 

Pa  turistfard  genom  Amerika  och  Europa.   Kortfattade  skildringar 

fran  en  resa  sommaren  1908.  Med  forord  af  Ernst  Skarstedt.   San  Fran- 
cisco, n.  d. 

Olsson,  Anna.    Angelns  gava  med  flera  berattelser  for  barn.    Rock  Island, 
1918. 

Bilder  fran  jubelfesten  med  flera  skisser.  Rock  Island,  1912. 

Ellens  julfest  med  flera  berattelser  for  de  sma.   Stockholm,  1912. 

Fran  solsidan.   Rock  Island,  1903. 

"I'm  scairt."    Childhood  days  on  the  prairie.    Rock  Island,  1927. 

En  prarieunges  funderingar.    Rock  Island,  1917.    Stockholm,  1919. 

1926. 

Olsson,  Frank  A.    Arfvingarne.    Skamt  och  sang  i  en  akt.    Efter  en  fransk 

ide.   Denver,  [1888]. 
Olsson,  Olof.   Betraktelser  vid  korset.   Stockholm,  1878. 

Grunddragen  af  en  sann  medborgares  karaktar.   Tal  .  .  .  Rock  Is- 
land, 1883. 

Helsningar  fran  fjerran.   Minnen  fran  en  resa  genom  England  och 


Tyskland  ar  1879.   Moline,  1880. 

Det  kristna  hoppet.    Trostens  ord  i  lidandet  och  sorgen.    Chicago, 

1887. 

Till  Rom  och  hem  igen.   Chicago,  1890. 

Vid  korset:  Betraktelser  ofver  fralsningen  i  Kristus.    Rock  Island, 


1879. 
Wid  korset.    Betraktelser  for  den  stilla  veckan.    Stockholm,  1940. 


(Translated  by   Daniel   Nystrom  as  Salvation  in   Christ.    Rock   Island, 

1942.) 
Osback,  Carl  Rudolf.   Morgonskimmer.   Diktsamling.   West  New  York,  1910. 
Osterholm,  Albin  N.  Pasksonetter.    [U.  S.  A.],  1893. 

Valda  dikter.  Chicago,  1904. 

Ostrand,  John.    [Gosta  Rosa,  pseud.]    Emigrantens  kvade.    En  afskedshels- 
ning  till  fosterlandet.    n.  p.,  1882. 

Rike  Bergmans  testamente.   Minnen  fran  ungdomstid  och  faderne- 

bygd.    [Chicago?],  1908. 

125 


Palmer,  Adrian.    Varluft.    [Poems. J    Chicago,  1896. 

Varloken.    [Sweden],  n.  d. 

Palmer,  J.  E.    Frusbubblor  och  strilstank.    Svensk-amerikanska  Sanger  och 
visor.  St.  Paul,  1897. 

Pearson,  Peter  Henry.    Prairie  Vikings.    East  Orange,  1927. 

Person,  Johan.   I  Svensk-Amerika.   Berattelser  och  skisser.   Worcester,  1900. 

Svensk-Amerikanska  studier.    Rock  Island,  1912. 

Peterson,  C.  F.  Forenta  Staternas  historia.   Chicago,  1890. 

Ett  hundra  ar.   En  aterblick  pa  det  nittonde  seklet.   Chicago,  1892. 

Karlek  och  pligt.    [Chicago?],  n.  d. 

Nya  Varlden.   En  blick:  den  Nordamerikanska  republikens  hafder. 

Chicago,  [1885]. 

Politisk  handbok  for  svenskarne  i  Amerika.   Chicago,  n.  d. 

Republiken  och  dess  institutioner.   Chicago,  1891. 

Spansk-amerikanska  kriget,  etc.   Chicago,  1899. 

Sverige   i   Amerika,    kulturhistoriska    och   biografiska    teckningar. 


Chicago,  1898. 
Peterson,  C.  P.   Bibelns  spegel.   Chicago,  1875. 

Universal-poem  och  teori-vagbrytare.   Chicago,  1880. 

Vittnesbord  om  bockernas  bok.   Chicago,  1887. 

Peterson,  Frithiof  Jeremias.   [R61  Gording,  pseud.].  Ismael  Hagarson.  Berat- 
telse.  Chicago,  1915.  Uppsala,  1918. 

Under  nattvakten  eller  den  gamle  matrosens  berattelse.    Chicago, 

[1914?]. 

R61  Gording:  Jag  saldes  pa  auktion.  En  verklighetsberattelse.   Stock- 


holm, 1947. 

Poesibok.  Diktsamling  for  ungdom.  Urval  ur  aldre  och  nyare  svensk  skal- 
dekonst  af  E.  H.  Carlson.   Chicago,  1910. 

[Risberg,  E.].   Rosen  i  Varnhem.   Berattelse  af  E.  R.   Rock  Island,  [1915]. 

Rose,  N[ils]  Jonsson.  Ogras  och  vete.  Lyriska  och  andra  dikter.  Stockholm, 
1899. 

Rosenius,  P.  J.  Fosterlandska  hjaltedikter  ur  svenska  folkets  hafder.  Chi- 
cago, n.  d. 

Rydelius,  Alfred.    Vilda  blommor.    Diktforsok.    Salt  Lake  City,  1888. 

Ryden,  Peter.   Konferensresan.   Berattelse.   Chicago,  1911. 

Konferensresan  eller  bilen  med  de  manga  hjulen.    Svensk-ameri- 

kansk  berattelse.   Sundbyberg,  1918. 

Sandell,  Alfred.  Den  allting  forvandlande  handen.  Elva  uppbyggliga  be- 
traktelser.  Med  forord  af  Prof.  O.  Olsson.   Rock  Island,  1885. 

Schuch,  Gustaf  Edward.  Emigranterna.  Romantiserad  skildring  fran  nybyg- 
garetiden.  Chicago,  1917. 

Tvenne  familjer.   Rock  Island,  1914. 

Shogren,  Emma  W.   Barngladje  och  julminnen.    Chicago,  1889. 

Where  the  Mississippi  flows  and  other  stories.   Chicago,  1906. 

126 


Sjoberg,  Charles.   Toner  och  Missljud.  En  samling  dikter.    [Detroit,  1926.]. 

Sjostrand,  Erik.     Rim-frost.    Poem.    Boston,   [1909]. 

[Sjostrom,  Gustaf].  Jan  Olsons  afventyr  eller  en  vermlandsk  emigrants  resor 

och  lefnadsoden  i  det  Norra  Amerika.    Chicago,  1892. 
Skarstedt,  Ernst  Teofil.   Abraham  Lincoln.   En  levnads-  och  karaktarsteck- 

ning.  Stockholm,  1918. 

Amerikanska  typer  och  karaktarer.    Sex  lefnads-  och  karaktars- 

teckningar.  San  Francisco,  1919. 

Mark  Twain.    [Samuel  Langhorne  Clemens.]    Nagra  ord  om  hans 


liv,  verksamhet  och  karaktar.  n.  p.,  1919. 

Rosor  och  tornen.    En  samling  fangslande  och  larorika  berattelser 


af  beromda  forfattare.   Svensk  bearbetning  med  versifieradt  forord.   San 
Francisco,  1893. 

Theodore  Roosevelt.  En  lefnads-  och  karaktarsteckning.  San  Fran- 


cisco, 1919. 

Under  vestliga  skyar.  Diktforsbk.  Tacoma,  1907. 

Vagabond  och  redaktor.   Lefnadsoden  och  tidsbilder.   Seattle,  1914. 

Vid  honnes  sida.    Ode  noch  afventyr,  minen  och  iakttagelser,  lifs- 


och  karaktarsbilder  fran  ett  sjuarigt  aktenskap.    Saml.  i  to  If  bref  med 

for-  och  slutord.    [ill.  by  Olof  Grafstrom.]    Portland,  1889. 
Soderblom,  Peter.   Levnadsoden  och  reseskildringar.   Los  Angeles,  1932. 
Spangberg,  Ernest  A.  Anderson,  Peterson  och  Lundstrom.  Folk-komedi  med 

sang  i  fern  akter.    Frans  Hodell's  original  omarbetat,  modarniserat  och 

forsett  med  nya  kupletter.  Minneapolis,  1920. 
Spoquist,  Niklas.   En  ynkelig  men  sannfardig  fiskarevisa.    Saljes  till  forman 

for  Lake  Michigans  abborrar.  n.  p.,  n.  d. 
Stenbock,  Harald.    Segelvind  i  morgonvakt.    Lyriska  dikter.    Dayton,  Iowa, 

1911.    Stillwater,  Minn.,  1928. 
Stenwall,  Ruth.    Ax  plockade  pa  lifvets  aker.    Dikter.    New  Britain,  Conn., 

1908. 
Stolpe,  Mauritz.   Samlade  dikter.  Rock  Island,  1940. 
Stromberg,  Ella.  Vilda  blommor.   Dikter.   Minneapolis,  1928. 
Stromberg,  [Oscar]  Leonard.   August  Bergers  vanner.    Berattelse.   Uppsala, 

1930.    (Several  of  his  novels  found  at  the  Royal  Library.   They  were  all 

published  in  Sweden.) 
Sundell,  Edward.  Lyckliga  dagar.    [Poems.]    New  York,  1894. 
Sundelof,  Anders  Wilhelm.  Dikter.  Boston,  1913. 
Svenska  dramtiska  sallskapet.    Vermlandningarne.    Nordsidans  Turner  Hall 

sondagen  den  13:  de   mars,   1898.     (For   similar  programs  see   Naeseth 

volume,  ALP,  no.  22) 
Swan,  Gustaf,  N.    Gamla  svenska  biblar  i  Amerika  och  Bibelns  segertag 

genom  varlden.  Rock  Island,  1918. 
Holmes  och  Zetterstrand.   Minnestal  hallna  vid  Augustana  College. 

Rock  Island,  1912. 
"Ludvig  Holmes  som  skald.    Hans  diktning  och  dess  betydelse  for 

den  svensk-amerikanska  litteraturen.  Tal."  n.  p.,  1911. 

127 


Svensk  litteratur  i  engelsk  oversattning.    [Chicago,  1934]. 

Swedish-American  literary  periodicals.    Rock  Island,  1936.    (AHS, 

v.  6). 

Swanson,  Anna  S.  Ur  hjartats  fatabur.   Tankar  fran  redaktionsbordet.   Min- 
neapolis, [1907]. 

Swanson,  Joseph.  Den  sanna  lyckan.   1921. 

Venus.  1922. 

Sward,  Axel  August.  Enskilda  skrifter.   San  Francisco,  1895. 

Fran  Vestanskog.  Dikter.  Rock  Island,  1889. 

Vilda  blommor  fran  prarien.    [Poems.]    Rock  Island,  1887. 

Swenson,  N.  S.   Bilder  ur  lifvet  i  vers  form.    Willmar,  Minn.,  1927. 
Swensson,  Carl  A.  Hemat.  n.  p,  1891. 

Vid  hemmets  hard   Lasning  for  fridstunder  i  familjekretsen.   Chi- 
cago, 1890. 

Sylvan,  Eric.  Vardrom.   [Play.]   1925. 

Tapper,  A.  G.  I  sol  och  skuggor.  Dikter  och  sanger.   Worcester,  1897. 

Kronprins  Gustaf  Adolf  med  anledning  av  Amerikabesoket  1926. 

n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Thune,  Oscar.  I  skymningen.  Nagra  rimforsok.   Bridgeport,  1923. 
Tigerschiold,  Hugo.  John  Ericsson.   Dikt.  Stockholm,  1890. 
Tollen,  C.  A.   [Waerner,  Seth  August  Ninian,  pseud.].  Brev  te  Nyman  Waer- 
nor  fran  C.  A.  Tollen.    [111.  by  Hjalmar  Eneroth.]    Stockholm,  1899. 

I  host-  och  vinterkvall.    Svensk -amerikanska  dikter  och  smaskiz- 

zer.  Minneapolis,  1895. 

Pennstreck.     Humoresker,    skizzer    och    berattelser.     Minneapolis, 


1896. 
Wallberg,  Olof.    Emigranten  eller  de  fbrsta  manaderna   i   Amerika.     [Chi- 
cago?], [1895?]. 

Mordet  pa  Milton  Ave  eller  var  var  polisen.   [A  novel.]    [Chicago?]. 

Wermelin,  Alfred.   En  blick  pa  lifvet.    [Poem.]    Marinette,  Wis.,  1898. 

Dikter.  Marinette,  Wis.,  1890. 

Ljus  och  skuggor.  Dikter.   Marinette,  Wis.,  1900. 

Westman,  Gustaf  O.   Mefistofeles  gramelse.   Chicago,  1916. 

Wicklund,  Gustaf.   En  afton  pa  "Tre  byttor."   Fars  med  sang  i  en  akt.   Mu- 
siken:  Bellmansmelodier.  Stockholm,  1893. 

Gnistor  fran  rimsmedjan.  Valda  sanger  utg.  af  hans  maka.   Minne- 
apolis, 1906. 

[Author    of    five    plays:     "En    overraskning,"    "Kronjuvelerna    pa 


nordsidan,"    "Var   forening,"    "Pa  forsta   maj,"    and    "En   afton   pa    Tre 
Byttor."  Date  and  place  of  publication  uncertain.] 
Wiman,  Gustaf.   Dikter  och  sanger.   Waltham,  Mass.,  1913. 


128 


ARTICLES 

Ahlstrom,    Vanja.     "Gosta   Larsson — sjoman — ingenjor — forfattare."     SJ,    16 

(1947),  116-117. 
[Almquist,  C.  J.  L.].    "Swedish  author's  only  American  story."    JIHS,  41 

(Sept.  1948),  285-304. 
Andreen,  Gustav.   "Det  svenska  spraket  i  Amerika."    STV,  87  (1900) . 
Benson,  Adolph  B.    American   appreciation  of  Fredrika  Bremer.    SSN,   8 

(1924-25),  14-33. 

Another  unpublished  letter  to  the  Downings.    SSN,  12    (1932-33), 

40-42. 

"The  beginning  of  American  interest  in  Scandinavian  literature." 


SSN,  5  (1925-26),  133-141. 

"The  essays  on  Fredrika  Bremer  in  the  North  American  Review." 

PMLA,  51  (1926),  747-755. 

Fredrika  Bremer's  unpublished  letters  to  the  Downings.    SSN,  11 


(1930-31),  1-10,  39-53,  71-78,  109-124,  147-172,  187-205,  215-228,  264-274. 
"A  list  of  English  translations  of  the  Frithiofs  saga.    A  retrospect 


at  the  centenary."  GR,  1  (No.  2,  1926),  142-167. 

"Skandinaviskt  inflytande   pa   den  amerikanska    litteraturen   fore 

1870."  SLS,  13  (1930),  39-48. 

"Swedish   influence   on  American  culture.    A   resume."    BAIS,   4 


(March  1949),  3-10;  (June  1949),  5-11. 
Benediction,  Sister.    [Mrs.  Gustaf  Stromberg].   "All  in  all,  a  poem."  BASI,  6 
(Autumn  1951) ,  16. 

"Three  poems."  BASI,  6  (Autumn  1951) ,  23. 

"Two  poems."  BASI,  5  (Summer  1950) ,  8. 

Berg,    Ruben    G:son.    "Den    Nordamerikanska    litteraturen    och    Sverige." 
NFM,  1  (June  1938),  401-407. 

"Nordamerikansk  litteratur  i  Sverige."   MA,  pp.  149-186. 

Bonggren,  Jakob.   "En  sjalvbiografisk  skiss."   AS,  19  (Dec.  20,  1932) ,  8-9. 

"A  tribute  to  the  memory  of  General  Zachary  Taylor."  SAM,  (Oct. 

1850). 

"Greeting  to  America."   SAM,  (Feb.  1851) . 

[Letter  to  Professor  John  S.  Hart.]    SAM,  (Dec.  1851) . 


Bremer,  Fredrika.    "A  California  for  women;  better  than  silver  and  gold." 

SAM,  (Oct.  1851) . 
Brunius,  A.   "Utlandssvensken  som  romanfigur."   Idun,  (1918),  170-171. 
Edgren,  Hjalmar.   "Svensk  litteratur  i  Amerika."    NST,  4   (no.  6,  1883),  470- 

475. 
Elgstrom,  Anna  Lenah.    "Adolph  Burnett  Benson."    US,  11    (no.  10,  1949), 

11-15. 

"Carl  Sandburg."    US,  9   (no.  3,  1947),  6-9. 

Elmblad,  Magnus  Henrik.    "Tva  dagar."    Forr  och  nu,   (1870),  297.    (Many 

others  in  same  journal  for  1871,  1872,  1873,  1874,  1875,  1877,  1883,  1888, 

as  well  as  in  Ur  dagens  krdnika,  [885.) 

129 


Enander,  Hilma.   "Dr.  Enander."    SHS,  7  (1921-22) ,  24-32. 

Enander,  Joh.  A.  "En  svensk-amerikansk  tidnings  50  ars-jubileum."  PB,  6 
(1906),  228-248. 

[ ]  "The  Enander  Memorial."    ASR,  9   (Oct.  1921),  685-686. 

[ ]  "Johan  Alfred  Enander:   Necrology."    SHS,  3   (1909-10),  80-82. 

Foss,  C.  W.  "The  Swedish  Lutheran  Publication  Society."  Alumnus,  1  (Jan. 
1893),  98-102. 

Gustafson,  Alrik.  "A  dream  worth  dying  for.  The  price  of  freedom  in  Vil- 
helm  Moberg's  recent  novels."    ASR,  30  (Dec.  1942),  296-307. 

Hagglund,  S.  G.  "Svenskhetens  bevarande  i  Amerika."  ARF,  (1924),  111-117. 

Johnson,  E.  Gustav.  "A  Swedish  immigrant  ballad."  SSN,  20  (Nov.  1948), 
193-201. 

King,  Ernestine.  "Letters  from  Fredrika  Bremer."  BAIS,  5  (March  1950), 
10-12. 

Langenfelt,  G.  "Literary  contributions.  4.  American  novel  figures  of  Swedish 
descent."   SMS,  17  (1949),  72-86. 

"Svenska  vitterlekare  i  Amerika."  SD,  (July  7,  1929) . 

Lagerlof,  Selma.  "Mamsell  Fredrika."  BAIS,  n.  s.  5  (March  1950),  3-9. 
Lindahl,  Mac.    "Kring  ett  100-ars  jubileum."    US,  13   (no.  9,  1951),  14-15. 

"Svenskamerikanen  Naboth  Hedin."   US,  13   (no.  1,  1951),  15-17. 

"Den  svensksprakiga  pressen  i  America."    US,  11  (no.  5,  1949),  16- 

19. 

Linder,  Oliver  A.  "Almquist  i  Amerika.  Ett  sty  eke  av  den  biltoge  forfat- 
tarens  saga.  UV,  20  (March  1915),  72-75. 

"In  memoriam.  Carl  Fredrik  Peterson."  VK,  5  (July  1901),  329-331. 

Lindvall,  C.  A.  "Svenska  spraket  in  America."  SHS,  5  (1914-1915),  13-21. 

Lofgren,  Svante.   "Memories  of  a  pioneer."    [Ernst  Skarstedt.]    BASI,  n.  s.  1 

(July-Sept.  1946),  13-16. 
Lund,  Emil.    "Huru  skall  svenskheten  bevaras  i  Amerika?"    ARF,    (1919), 

14-24. 

"Lonar  det  modan  att  i  Svensk-Amerika  soka   behalla  nagot  av 

svenska  spraket?"  AS,  23  (Nov.  1,  1936),  6-7. 

Lundbergh,  Holger.  "Struggle,  sincerity  and  success."  [Gosta  Larsson.]. 
ASM,  35  (Jan.  1941),  15,  25. 

Lundblad,  P.  "En  bortgangen  hallandsk  bondeskald."  [Edward  H.  Anders- 
son.]   HA,  (1927),  107-112. 

Moberg,  Gosta.  "Utlandssvenskar  som  jag  mbtt."   US,  12  (no.  1,  1950) ,  14-17. 

Naeseth,  Henriette  C.  K.  "Drama  in  Swedish  in  Chicago."  JIHS,  41  (June 
1948),  159-170. 

"The  Swedish  theater  of  Chicago."   ASHF,  (1952),  10-22. 

Nordkvist,  Harald.  "Svenska  spraket:  i  Amerika."  SVIA,  v.  2,  pp.  219-223. 
Olsson,   Karl    A.     "Fredrika    Bremer   and   Ralph    Waldo    Emerson."     SP,    2 

(Autumn  1951),  39-52. 

130 


Olson,  Ernst  W.  "Augustana  Book  Concern:  Publishers  of  the  Augustana 
Synod,  history  of  its  activities  since  1889  with  introductory  account  of 
earlier  publishing  enterprises."  AHP,  3  (1933),  3-80. 

"Nagra    anteckningar    till    den    svensk-amerikanska    forlagsverk- 

samhetens  historia."  PB,  10  (1910),  168-187. 

Peterson,  C.  F.  "Ett  par  Chicago  karakterer."  [C.  G.  Linderborg  and  Charles 
Eklund.]   VK,  3  (March  1899) ,  114-118. 

"Svensk-amerikanska  banbrytare  a  pressens  fait."    VK,   1    (April 

1897),  13-16. 

"Pioneer  publisher."    [Charles  Knut  Johansen.]   ASM,  38  (Sept.  1944) ,  13. 

"Publishers  and  booksellers."  ASH,  [1]  (1943),  80-81;  3  (1948),  108-110. 

Rooth,  Signe  A.  "Fredrika  Bremer's  impressions  of  America."  SP,  1  (Spring 
1951),  5-16. 

Rydh,  Hanna.  "Fredrika  Bremer— trail  blazer."  BASI,  n.  s.  5  (March  1950) , 
13-18. 

S — lis,  E.  "Johannes  Elmblad,  sangaren  och  skadespelaren."  VK,  6  (Decem- 
ber 1902),  632-633. 

Sahlbom,  Naima.  Pa  jakt  i  Amerika  1924  efter  Fredrika  Bremer.  Hertha,  11 
(1924) ,  121-123. 

Sandegren,  T.  "Vid  vestervag.  Minnen  fran  den  svensk-amerikanska  tid- 
ningsverlden  i  staten  Washington."  VK,  10  (Dec.  1906) ,  633-636. 

Schon,  Anders.  "Anders  Thorson."  PB,  9  (1909) ,  250-252. 

"Dr.  Johan  Alfred  Enander.  En  minnesruna."  PB,  11  (1911),  16-45. 

"G.  A.  Bohman."  PB,  7  (1907),  261-262. 

"Joh.  A.  Enander."    [Chicago],  1910.     (Newspaper  clippings  of  15 

pages  from  Hemlandet.) 

Skarstedt,  Ernst.  "Aderton  manaders  hundlif.  Verklighetsteckningar."  VK, 
3  (Feb.  1899),— 4  (Jan.  1900). 

"En  bortgangen  skamtare.   Bilder  ur  en  svensk-amerikansk  penn- 

faktares  lif,  C.  V.  Liedberg."  VK,  5  (Sept.  1901),  463-469;  5  (Oct.  1901), 
516-521. 

"C.  G.  Linderborg.    Nagra  karaktars  drag  och  personliga  minnen." 


VK,  5  (Nov.  1901),  569-578. 

"Kuckeliku!    Ett  Magnus  Elmblad  Minne."  KK,  (1901),  119-122. 

"Svensk-amerikanska."   VK,  9  (Dec.  1905) ,  621-624. 


Skoglund,  Arvid  G.   "  'Skaldandet'  i  Svensk -amerika."   SAF,  (May  1929). 
Stomberg,  A.  A.    "Beaktansvarda  strafvanden  for  den  nordiska  kulturens 

bevarande  i  Amerika."  PB,  12  (1912),  29-37. 
"Svenskan  i  America."  SOS,  4  (1904) ,  1-21. 
Swan,  Gustaf  N.  "En  aterblick."  SHS,  5  (1914-15),  38-54. 

"August    Strindberg    i    Amerika.    Bibliografiska    anteckningar   for 

Nordstjernan.   [New  York],  1913."  N,  43  (Oct.  14-17,  1913). 

"The  English  versions  of  Tegner's  'Axel.'  A  bibliographical  sketch." 


SASP,  1  (1911-14),  179-184. 
"Frithiof's  saga  i  Amerika."  UV,  19  (Dec.  1914) ,  373-377. 

131 


"  'Frithiofs  saga'  in  engelsk  drakt."   SA,  (May  21,  May  28,  1914) . 

Longfellow  och  Tegner.  Svea,  61  (1904),  140-150. 

"No.  6  South  Clark  Street  eller  'Nar  vi  borjade.'  "  BF,  (1920-1921), 

166-177. 

"Olla  podrida:   literart  kaseri."    (Collection  of  newspaper  clippings 

at  AL  made  by  Swan  from  his  own  writings.) 

"Svensk-amerikanska   forfattare."    UV,   9    (Nov.    1904)— 14    (July 

1909).  [Erik  Norelius,  Josua  Lindahl,  Ludvig  Holmes,  Ernst  Skarstedt, 
Nils  Forsander,  Signe  Ankarfelt,  Edward  Sundell,  Oliver  A.  Linder, 
David  Nyvall,  Leonard  Stromberg,  Ernst  Zetterstrand,  Vilhelm  Berger, 
Ernst  W.  Olson.] 

"Svenska     och    svensk-amerikanska     tidnings-pressens     historia." 


(Clippings  from  1880-1931  by  G.  N.  Swan.) 
Swanson,  Roy  W.   "The  Swedish-American  press."    [Bibliography.]    Viking, 
1  (July  1906),  2-5;  (Aug.  1906),  5,  9;   (Sept.  1906),  8,  18;  (Oct.  1906),  4, 
18;  (Nov.  1906),  4,  19;  (Jan.  1907),  4-5;  (Feb.  1907),  2-3;  (March  1907), 
1-4. 

"A  Swedish  immigrant  folk  figure — Ola   Varmlanning."    MH,    29 

(June  1948),  105-113. 

Tegen,  Gunhild.    "Med  Fredrika  Bremer  i  slavstaterna."    MG,  38    (1942), 

8-18. 
Upvall,  Axel  J.  "The  Swedish  language  in  America."   SIA,  pp.  52-74. 
Vetterlund,  F.  "Nordamerika  och  en  svensk  romantiker."    Idun,  32    (1919), 

342-343. 
Wahlstrom,  M.    "Svenska  sprakets  framtid  i  Amerika."    SHS,  6    (1916-17), 

21-30. 

Wallenius,  C.  G.  "Tidningen  Sandebudet,  1862-1912."  VR,  10  (1912),  114-120. 
Widen,   Albin.    "Scandinavian  folklore   and   immigrant   ballads."    BAIS,   2 

(Jan.-March  1947),  1-44. 
Wieselgren,  O.  "Fredrika  Bremer  i  Boston."   Hertha,  4  (1917),  198-202. 
Zetterstrand,  E.  A.    "C.  J.  L.  Almquist.    Lefnadsteckning."    PB,   6    (1906). 

33-56. 

"Engelskans  inflytande  pa  det  svenska  spraket  i  Amerika."   UV,  9 

(June-August  1904),  179-180,  204-207,  243-244. 

"Svenskan  i  Amerika  bedomd  af  en  vetenskapsman."    UV,  9  (Nov. 


1904) ,  348-350. 


132 


Chapter  Eight 


ART,  MUSIC,  AND  THE  THEATER 

Music  is  frequently  associated  with  the  Swedish  immigrants.  The  sing- 
ing societies  were  as  much  a  part  of  their  life  as  of  that  of  the  German 
immigrants.  These  societies  were  organized  into  regional  and  national  asso- 
ciations and  sponsored  musical  festivals  in  connection  with  their  conven- 
tions. The  repertoire  consisted  chiefly  of  old-country  songs  dear  to  the  heart 
of  the  immigrant.  Most  often  the  programs  included  songs  by  Gunnar  Wen- 
nerberg.  Swedish  and  American  patriotic  songs  were  sung  with  the  same 
depth  of  feeling.  Important  as  was  the  role  that  these  societies  played  in 
the  life  of  the  immigrants,  their  historical  records  have  not  been  well  pre- 
served. 

The  most  important  records  on  art  and  music  pertain  to  the  church  and 
its  educational  institutions.  A  large  number  of  editions  of  hymnals  and  re- 
ligious songs  can  be  found.  Here  it  is  possible  to  observe  the  impact  of  a 
religious  heritage  and  an  American  environment.  Music  was  stressed  at 
academies  and  colleges  and  it  became  the  function  of  these  to  prepare  or- 
ganists and  choir  directors  as  well  as  ministers.  Catalogues  of  these  insti- 
tutions should,  therefore,  be  consulted. 

The  immigrants  also  liked  to  regard  as  their  very  own  such  great  singers 
as  Jenny  Lind  and  Christina  Nilsson  even  though  these  were  not  immi- 
grants. Especially  the  former  has  been  the  object  of  a  constant  interest. 
Sweden  has  continued  to  send  artists  to  America  among  whom  are  to  be 
found  well-known  movie  actors  and  actresses  as  well  as  opera  stars.  The 
literature  on  these  people  is  too  extensive  for  inclusion  in  this  bibli- 
ography. Carl  Milles'  reputation  as  a  sculptor  was  international  before  he 
decided  to  make  America  his  home.  He  has  been  the  object  of  several 
biographies  and  his  art  has  been  widely  discussed. 

The  historical  collections  at  Augustana,  Bethany,  Bethel,  and  other  Swed- 
ish centers  are  disappointing  as  they  relate  to  art  and  music.  The  materials 
collected  by  the  respective  schools  of  music  of  these  colleges  would  aid  very 
little  toward  an  understanding  of  the  immigrant's  contribution  to  music. 
Some  of  the  material  would  consist  of  translations  of  songs  and  hymns, 
recital  programs,  catalogues  of  the  schools  of  music  and  a  few  original  com- 
positions particularly  when  these  were  definitely  associated  with  the  church, 
as  in  the  case  of  contributions  of  A.  L.  Skoog  found  at  North  Park  College. 
The  Scandinavian  Music  House  of  New  York  City  and  Dalkullan  Publish- 
ing and  Importing  Company  of  Chicago  have  been  interested  in  Swedish 
music,  of  which  the  latter  has  published  a  great  deal. 

A  student  of  immigration  is  very  ready  to  acknowledge  America's  debt  to 
the  immigrant  for  his  contributions  to  American  art  and  music.  The  Swedes 
in  most  instances  loved  music  and,  therefore,  it  might  be  assumed  that  they 
did  make  a  significant  contribution  in  this  field.  It  has  also  been  said  that 
the  Swedes  possessed  an  artistic  sense.    Yet  a  study  of  this  bibliography 

133 


will  reveal  that  among  their  immigrants  the  only  names  which  loom  large 
are  those  of  Jenny  Lind,  Christina  Nilsson  and  Carl  Milles,  the  sculptor. 
Nor  can  these  be  considered  to  be  immigrants.  Such  a  composer  as  Hanson 
at  the  Eastman  School  of  Music  is  a  second  generation  immigrant.  Thus, 
the  contributions  of  the  Swedes  in  art  and  music  are  to  be  found  elsewhere 
than  in  the  names  of  great  artists.  The  music  that  the  immigrants  loved 
was  the  "folksy-music"  and  their  religious  music,  and  it  was  this  kind  of 
music  which  created  a  nostalgia  for  the  old  country  as  the  immigrants  came 
together  to  sing.  No  over-all  study  has  been  made  of  the  contributions  of 
the  Swedish  immigrants.  Closest  to  this  kind  of  study  is  Carl  Nelson's  doc- 
toral dissertation  which  is  mentioned  in  the  "Bibliography  of  Bibliogra- 
phies." It  is  the  most  important  work  done  so  far  in  the  field.  Other  biblio- 
graphical references  are  sketchy,  local  or  regional,  atomistic  or  specialized. 
Lawrence  Albert  Anderson's  master's  thesis,  The  Swedes  of  Lindsborg, 
Kansas,  and  Their  Cultural  Institutions:  Bethany  College  and  the  Messiah 
Chorus,  is  remarkable  only  for  its  inadequate  bibliography.  The  Benson  and 
Hedin  volume,  Swedes  in  America,  contains  a  few  chapters  on  architects, 
artists,  composers,  and  opera  singers  which  might  at  least  provide  some 
clues.  E.  Gustav  Johnson's  bibliography  on  the  works  of  a  Mission  Cove- 
nant composer  should  be  consulted. 

It  has  been  said  that  the  Lutheran  church  is  a  singing  church,  and  most 
of  the  Swedes  were  Lutherans.  Perhaps  Edwin  T.  Lieholm's  doctoral  dis- 
sertation at  the  Union  Theological  Seminary  for  1945  might  be  helpful  as 
an  indirect  aid.  It  is  entitled  The  Lutheran  Chorale  as  a  Congregational 
Hymn.  Ernst  W.  Olson's  article  "Svensk  konst  i  Amerika"  in  Hildebrand's 
volume  offers  a  number  of  leads  on  individual  artists. 

Oscar  Emanuel  Olson's  master's  thesis  at  Northwestern  University  in  1941 
entitled  A.  L.  Skoog:  Pioneer  Musician  of  the  Evangelical  Mission  Covenant 
Church  of  America  contains  a  very  complete  bibliography  of  Skoog's  works, 
hymns,  anthems,  etc.  Lee  O.  G.  Olson's  thesis  for  the  doctorate  at  the 
Union  Theological  Seminary  in  1946  entitled  History  of  Swedish  Church 
Music  should  also  be  consulted  as  well  as  E.  E.  Ryden's  The  Story  of  Our 
Hymns. 


REFERENCES 
BOOKS,  PAMPHLETS  AND  PROGRAMS 

American  Daughters  of  Sweden  and  the  Chicago  Swedish  Glee  Club;  sec- 
ond annual  Swedish  music  festival,  Sunday,  Oct.  18,  1931.  Chicago,  1931. 

American  Painters  of  Swedish  Descent;  exhibiting  under  the  auspices  of  the 
Art  Institute  of  Chicago,  Nov.  16-30,  1920. 

American  Union  of  Swedish  Singers.  Song  album.  Svenska  sangarfbrbundet. 
Amerika  sangalbum.    [Numerous  editions.]    n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Singer's  program.   Rockford,  1900. 

Festival  program.   Chicago,  1905. 

Third  grand  singing  festival  of  the  Eastern  Division  held  in  Provi- 
dence, Rhode  Island,  souvenir  program,  June  21,  1907. 

134 


Song  album.   Chicago,  1896. 

Song  album.  Male  choruses.  Chicago,  1909. 

Festskrift.    Chicago,  1924. 

Song  album  1924.  St.  Paul,  1924. 

Eastern  Division,  musical  festival.   Jamestown,  1935. 

50th  jubilee,  singing  festival  and  convention.    Saint  Paul,  Minne- 
sota, June  6-7-8-9,  1946.   St.  Paul,  1946. 

Third  quadrennial  convention  of  the  American  Union  of  Swedish 


Singers,  Moline.  July  24-28,  1907. 
Amerikanska  konstnarers  af  svensk  harkomst,  utstallning,  N.  Y.    [American 

Scandinavian  Foundation],  1920. 
Andeliga  Sanger.  Cincinnati,  1875. 

Anderson,  Alfred,  and  W.  S.  Nickle.   Herde-stamman.    Sanger  for  sondags- 
skolan,  bonmotet  och  hemmet.  Chicago,  1893. 
Augustana  Synod].   Hemlandssanger.   Rock  Island,  1891.    (Many  editions.) 
]  Hymnal   and    the    order   of   service    for   churches    and    Sunday 


Schools.  Rock  Island,  n.  d.  Published  with  music.  Rock  Island,  1901. 
]  The   hymnal   and   order   of   service.   Rock    Island,    1925.    (Many 


editions.) 

]  Luther  League  hymn  book.  Rock  Island,  [1913], 

]  Sangbok.  Lutherforbundets.  Rock  Island,  1913. 


Berger,  Vilhelm.  Svensk  sang  i  New  York.  New  York,  1929. 

Bergquist,  J.  Victor.   Golgotha.  Minneapolis,  1908. 

Brace,  Hagbard.  Korsanger.  Rock  Island,  n.  d. 

Brodin,  Knut.  Emigrantvisor  och  andra  visor.  Stockholm,  1938. 

Cappaert,  LeRoy.  Gustav  Stolpe.    (MS  prepared  at  AL) 

Charnquist,  C.  Andeliga  Sanger,  forsta  haftet.    [M]    Austin,  1878. 

Den  ljufwa  rosten.  Andra  samlingen.    [M]    Austin,  1878. 

Silfver-trumpeten,  no.  1.  [M]   Chicago,  1882. 

Trumpeten,  no.  3.   En  samling  af  andeliga  sanger  till  vackelse  och 

uppbyggelse  for  Zion  vandrare  samt  till  beframjandet  af  den  svenska 
kristeliga  verksamheten  i  Texas.   [M]    [Chicago],  n.  d. 

Trumpeten.    [M]    Verona,  Mo.,  1887. 

Silfver-trumpeten,  no.  2.   [M]    Chicago,  1887. 


Chorsanger  for  blandad  rost.   Chicago,  n.  d. 

Chorsanger  for  mansroster.  Chicago,  n.  d. 

Dellgren,  August.  Psalmer  och  sang  for  kyrka  och  hem.  Chicago,  1908. 

Dorph,  Sven.  Jenny  Linds  triumftag  genom  nya  varlden  och  senare  levnads- 

ackorder.  Uppsala,  1918. 
Edgren,  Adolf.   Bibliska  lof sanger,  psalmer  och  hymner  .  .  .  1891. 

Harpotoner.  Andeliga  sanger.   Stockholm,  1886. 

Kantat  vid  jubelfesten  till  firande  af  Svenska  M.  E.  Kyrkans  fem- 

tioariga  tillvaro  i  Amerika.  Forfattad  och  komponerad  af  Adolf  Edgren. 
Utford  i  Central  Music  Hall  [Chicago]  den  30  maj  1895. 

135 


Lattfattlig  gitarrskola  samt  praktiska   accord tabeller   for   gitarrs- 

pelare.  Stockholm,  1895. 

Tillegnad  Hans  Majestat  Konung  Oscar  II  pa  sextioforsta  fodelse- 


dagen  (1829-1889)  .  .  .  Stockholm,  1889. 
Tre  sanger.   Stockholm,  1887. 


Eklund,  H.  W.  and  others.  Andeliga  sanger,  no.  3.   [M]    Brooklyn,  n.  d. 

Eklund,  C.  P.  Allians -sanger  for  vackelsemoten   [M]   Chicago,  1907. 

Enander,  Joh.  A.  Sang  till  froken  Christina  Nilsson  vid  emottagningsfesten 
i  Chicago  d.  22  Dec.  1870.  Chicago,  1870. 

Engberg,  Jonas,  ed.  Melodier  till  Hemlands-sanger  samt  Ahnfelts  sanger. 
Chicago,  1875. 

Evangelii  basun.   [C]   Chicago,  1883.  2d  ed.  1889. 

Evangeliska  sanger.   [M]. 

Exhibition  of  contemporary  Scandinavian  art,  held  under  the  auspices  of  the 
American -Scandinavian  Society  1912-1913  in  New  York,  Buffalo,  Toledo, 
Chicago,  and  Boston.  Introduction  and  biographical  notes  by  Charles 
Brinton  .  .  .  New  York,  1912. 

Femtio  andeliga  sanger.  Galesburg,  1856. 

Flexner,  James  Thomas.  First  flowers  of  our  wilderness.  Boston  and  Cam- 
bridge, 1947. 

Folkdanslaget,  Nationalfestskrift,  1923-1933.   Chicago,  1933. 

Ford,  Alice.  Pictorial  folk  art.  New  England  to  California.  Woodstoock, 
Vermont,  1949. 

Fridsbasunen.   [B]   Chicago,  [1890?]. 

Fridsrbster.    Sangbok  for  vackelsemoten,  bonemoten,  ungdomsmoten,  son- 

dagsskolan  och  hemmet.  [B]   Chicago,  n.  d. 
Frihetstoner.    Sanger  for  templare  och  andra  nykterhetsvanner.    Cleveland, 

1905. 
Frojderopet.  [M]  n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Frykman,  N.  Nagra  sangers  historia.  Jamestown,  1912. 
Fyrstammiga  melodier  till  Hemlandssanger,  Ahnfelts  sanger  och  Pilgrims - 

sanger  jamte  fullstandig  text.  Chicago,  1880. 
Ganschaw,  Theodore  F.   Memories  of  Sweden;  a  collection  of  its  best-loved 

melodies  with  English  and  the  original  Swedish  text.  New  York,  1937. 
Gorans,  Annie.  Harptoner.   Andeliga  sanger  med  musik.  Minneapolis,  1912. 
Hall,  George  F.    The  Augustana  band  and  its  tour  of  1928.    The  story  of 

Augustana's  greatest  brotherhood.  Rock  Island,  1929. 
Hemlands-,  Ahnfelts-  och  Pilgrimssanger.  Text  edition.  Chicago,  n.  d.  2d  ed. 

Chicago,  1881. 
Hemlandssanger,  music  edition.    Chicago,  n.  d. 
Hemlandssanger.    [Svenska  lutherska  tryckforeningen.]    Chicago.  1860,  1866, 

1872. 

Hemlandstoner  tillegnade  den  svenska  W.I. B.C.  forsamlingen  i  varlden.  Chi- 
cago, 1927. 

136 


Hemat.  Psalmer  och  Sanger  for  gammal  och  ung  pa  vag  till  det  himmelska 
hemmet.  Lindsborg,  1888. 

Hult,  A.  ed.  Barnvannens  lyra.   [M]   Boston,  1878. 

Barnvannens  lyra.    [M]    Chicago,  1880. 

Barnvannens  lyra,  No.  2.    [M]    Chicago,  1885. 

Hultman,  Johannes  Alfred.  Saul,  David  och  Goliat.  Sanger.   Omaha,  1894. 

Solskenssanger.  Saml.  1-3.   Stockholm,  1912-1924. 

Text  till  solskenssanger  m.  fl.  insjungna  ljudvisor.  Osby,  1913. 

[Janson,  Erik].  Nagra  Sanger  samt  boner.   Soderhamn,  1846. 

Jenny  Lind  Association,  New  York.  Meeting  for  memory  of  the  100th  birth- 
day of  Jenny  Lind.  New  York,  1923. 

Johansson,  S.,  compiler.  Hemlandssanger  pa  vagen  till  den  himmelska  Jeru- 
salem. Chicago,  1874. 

Johnson,  Carl  J.  Dahlquist's  Scandinavian  song  and  dance  album.  New 
York,  1941. 

Folk  songs  and  dances  from  the  northern  countries.    New  York, 

1943. 

Johnson,  F.  J.  Korsanger.  Rock  Island,  n.  d. 

Jubelklangen.   [C]   Chicago,  1896. 

Jubel-sanger  for  evangeliska  moten.    [M]    Chicago,  1902. 

Jubel-sanger,  for  evangeliska  moten,  sondagsskolan  och  hemmet.  [M]  Chi- 
cago, n.  d. 

Kastman,  Valborg,  and  Greta  Kohler.  Swedish  song  games;  a  collection  of 
games  and  songs  for  school,  home  and  playground  use.  Boston,  1913. 

Koralbok  for  kyrkan,  hemmet  och  skolan  med  svenska  psalmboken.  Chicago, 
1877. 

Koralbok  med  den  fullstandiga  svenska  messan,  den  svenska  psalmboken  af 
ar  1819,  ofversedd  af  Thomander  och  Wieselgren,  samt  evangeliiboken, 
handboken,  bonboken  m.  m.  Med  fullstandigt  versregister  och  psalman- 
visning,  melodiforteckning,  psalmhistoria  m.  m.  Chicago,  1886. 

Koralboken  med  psalmboken,  1819.  [Translated  by  J.  H.  Thomander  and  P. 
Wieselgren.]   Rock  Island,  n.  d. 

Kring  julgran  och  majstang.  Chicago,  n.  d. 

Krummacher,  F.  A.  Julhelgen,  de  messianska  forebilderna  och  profetiorna 
uti  deras  uppfyllelse  i  den  i  Betlehem  fodde  judakonungen,  framstalda 
pa  vers  och  prosa.  [Translated  by  G.  G.  Ingelman.]  Sangerna  aro  for- 
sedda  med  musik  .  .  .  Chicago,  1883. 

Kyrkohandbok  for  Augustana-synoden.  Antagen  1895.  Rock  Island,  n.  d.; 
Antagen  1923.  Rock  Island,  1926. 

Kyrkohandbok  for  Augustana-synoden.  Organist-upplaga.  Rock  Island, 
1927. 

Kyrkohandbok  for  svenska  evangelisk  lutherska  kyrkan  i  Amerika.  Chicago, 
1893. 

Kyrkokoren.   Chicago,  n.  d. 
Kyrkokoren.  X.  Rock  Island,  n.  d. 

137 


Korsanger.   Chicago,  n.  d.;  Rock  Island,  1882. 

Lagerstrom,  H.  F.  Forsammlingskoren.  Rock  Island,  n.  d. 

Lagerstrbm,  R.,  and  E.  W.  Olson.  Kantat  for  jubel-synoden,  1910.  Rock  Is- 
land, 1910. 

Larson,  Emil.  Gloria  Dei.  Chicago,  1909. 

Larsson,  Gustaf.  En  midvintersresa  till  Calif ornien  for  slojdens  beframjande. 
[Translated  from  English.]    Skara,  1894. 

The  sloyd  of  America,  1888-1900.  n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Svensk   slojd    tillampad    pa   amerikanska    forhallanden.     Fbredrag 

hallet  i  Philadelphia  af  Gustaf  Larson,  direktor  for  Slbjdlarareseminariet 
i  Boston,  Mass.  n.  p.,  n.  d.    (Translated  from  English  by  V.  Berger.) 

Liefwendal,  Kage,  and  Carl-Erik  Ohlen.  Svenskt  konstnarsgalleri.  Nitton- 
hundratalet.   Malare.   Skulptbrer.   Grafiker.  Stockholm,  1948-52.   2v. 

Lilja,  Gosta,  Bror  Olsson,  and  Arthur  S.  Svensson.  Svenskt  konstnarslexikon. 
Malmo,  1952. 

Lilla  basunen.   [C]    Chicago,  1890. 

Linstrum,  O.  E.  Frojd  och  gladje.    [M]   Jamestown,  1890. 

Samlade  Sanger.   [M]   Chicago,  1882. 

Lbfstrbm,  And.  L.  Dalkullan,  almanack  och  kalender.  Chicago,  1900. 

Lonnquist,  Carl  Adolph.  Bethphage  hymnal;  a  collection  of  original  hymns 
and  translations  from  the  Swedish  psalm-book  of  1819  for  use  and  bene- 
fit of  Bethphage  Mission.   Rock  Island,  1922. 

Dalkullan  sangbok;  en  utvald  samling  af  svenska  Sanger  och  visor. 

Chicago,  1903-1909;  1910-1921. 

Simple  melodies;  tunes  and  songs,   n.  p.,  n.  d. 


Lund,  Nils,  Oscar  Olsson,  and  Carl  G.  Strom.  Frykman,  Hultman,  Skoog. 
Pioneers  of  Covenant  musicians.  Chicago,  1943. 

Metodist  episkopal-kyrkans  svenska  psalmbok.    Med  noter.    Chicago,  1904. 

Musik  till  kyrkohandbok.  Chicago,  1901. 

Musikalisk  aftonunderhallning  gifven  af  Salemsforsamlingens  ungdomsfore- 
ning  lordagen  den  19  Febr.  1887.   Chicago,  1887. 

Musiktidning  for  Amerikas  svenskar.  Jubilee  number  25th  anniversary, 
Minneapolis  American  Union  of  Swedish  Singers,  n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Nagra  forklaringar  och  betraktelser,  med  anledning  af  Pastor  L.  A.  John- 
ston's upgifter  vid  behandlingen  af  organistfragan  a  sockenstamman  med 
Foresta  svenska  evangeliska  lutherska  forsamlingen  i  Rockford,  i 
Rockford,  den  1  januari,  1890. 

New  hymnal  for  church  and  home.    Chicago,  n.  d. 

Nibelius,  Fredrik.   Zions  sangbok  for  kyrkan  och  hemmet.   Chicago,  1887. 

Nilsson,  Hjalmar.  Ett  triumftag  genom  svenska  bygder;  explockning  fran 
svensk-amerikanska  elitkorens  Sverige-turne  22  juni-24  juli,  1910. 
Minneapolis,  1910. 

Nilsson,  Victor.   Sangarfarden  till  Sverige,  1910.   Chicago,  1910. 

Nordstrom,  D.   Sanger  och  poem.   Minneapolis,  1908. 

138 


Norelius,  Erik.  Handbok  for  sondags-skolan.  Med  passande  psalmer  och 
Sanger.   Chicago,  1865. 

Salems  Sanger  med  fyrstammiga  melodier.    Chicago,  1859. 

Nya  psalmisten;  Sanger  for  allman  och  enskild  uppbyggelse.    [B]    Chicago, 

1903. 
Ny  samling  korsanger.   Chicago,  1880. 

Nytt  och  gammalt,  fyrstammiga  Sanger  for  mansroster.   Chicago,  n.  d. 
Olson,    Ernst    Wilhelm.     Kantat    vid    Augustana-synodens    50-arsjubileum. 

Rock  Island,  1910. 

Olson,  Ernst  Wilhelm,  and  Victor  J.  Bergquist.  Reformationskantat  for 
sopran,  tenor,  bas,  kvartett,  kor  och  orkester  .  .  .  utgifven  af  Augustana- 
synoden;  musikupplaga  med  svensk  och  engelsk  text.  Rock  Island,  1917. 

Reformation  cantata  .  .  .  Rock  Island,  [1917]. 

Ollen,  Olof.   Sweden  in  music.   New  York,  1949. 

Olzen,  E.  A.  Collection  of  Scandinavian  folk  songs.  Chicago,  1941. 

Ostergren,  J.  R.  Kvartett-album  for  mansroster.   Chicago,  n.  d. 

Palmquist,  John  A.  Sanger  till  Herrans  pris.   Chicago,  1891. 

Petri,  C.  J.,  compiler.  Missionsharpan.  Sanger  for  inre  missionen.  Minne- 
apolis, 1908. 

Pilgrims -singer.  Chicago,  1890. 

Program  for  sondagsskolans  julfester.  Rock  Island,  n.  d. 

Program  och  musik  for  Minnesota  Konferensens  trehundraars  jubelfest  den 
22dra  och  23dje  Maj  1893.   St.  Paul  and  Minneapolis,  1893. 

Psalmer  och  Sanger  for  enskild  och  offentlig  uppbyggelse.  [M]  Cincinnati, 
1862. 

Randall,  Harry.  Souvenir  programme  of  the  third  biennial  singing-festival 
given  by  the  United  Scandinavian  Singers  of  America  July  17,  18,  19, 
20  and  21,  1891  at  the  Coliseum,  Minneapolis,  Minnesota.  Minneapolis, 
1891. 

Rogers,  Meuric  R.  Carl  Milles.  An  interpretation  of  his  work.  New  Haven, 
1940. 

Rosenberg,  C.  G.  Jenny  Lind:  her  life,  her  struggles,  and  her  triumphs. 
New  York,  1850. 

Jenny  Lind  in  America.   New  York,  1851. 

Russell,  N.  J.  Nya  Sanger  for  sondagsskolan.   Chicago,  1892. 

Ryden,  Ernest  Edwin.  The  story  of  our  hymns.  Rock  Island,  1930.  (Several 
later  editions.) 

Sanger  i  Sion.  Chicago,  1884. 

Sanger.  Populart  musikalbum.   Chicago,  1908. 

Sanger  vid  vackelse-moten.  Chicago,  1889. 

[Sandzen,  Birger].  Birger  Sandzen.  Exhibition.  The  American  Swedish 
Historical  Museum,  Philadelphia.  May  26-December  1,  1940.  [Introduc- 
tion by  Christian  Brinton.]    Philadelphia,  1940. 

Birger   Sandzen.    Utstallning   1-18   maj    1937,   Gummesons    konst- 

hall  .  .  .  [Foreword  by  Carl  Milles.]    Stockholm,  [1937]. 

139 


Med  pensel  och  penna.  Berattelser,  studier  och  stamningar.    [Dedi- 
cated to  the  Swedish-American  artists.]    Rock  Island,  [1905?]. 

Tva  vastgotamalare.   Birger  Sandzen.   Frans  Timen.    Utstallningen 


19-26  September  1937.  Lidkopings  Konstforening.  Lidkoping,  1937. 

The  Smoky  Valley;  reproductions  of  a  series  of  lithographs  of  the 


Smoky  Valley  in  Kansas.   Kansas  City,  1922. 
Sankey,  Ira  D.  Sanger  till  Lammets  lof.    [M]    Chicago,  1877;  1879. 

Sankeys  sangbok.    [M]  Cincinnati,  [1884?]. 

Scholdstrom,  Birger.  Svenska  sangstycken.  Chicago,  1896. 
Segersanger  vid  vackelsemoten.   [M]   Chicago,  n.  d. 
Sions  basun.   [C]    Chicago,  1908. 

Sionsharpan.   [C]    [Chicago?],  1890. 

Skandia.  Fyrstammiga  Sanger  fbr  mansroster.  Chicago,  1891. 

Skoog,  A.  L.  Evangeliska  korsanger.   [Minneapolis?],  1909. 

Kristliga  korsanger.  Minneapolis,  1891. 

Mission  hymns.   [Minneapolis],  1920. 

Music  works.    (A  large  collection  of  printed  works  of  Skoog  found 

at  Minnesota  State  Historical  Society  Library.) 

Nagra  vinkar  om  forsamlingskoren,  dess  uppdrag,  sammansattning 


och  verksamhet.  Minneapolis,  1902. 
De  ungas  sangbok.  Minneapolis,  1914. 


Sorlin,  D.  S.,  ed.  Davids  harpa.  Forsta  haftet.   Chicago,  1882. 

Song  books,  etc.  published  during  Jenny  Lind's  tour  in  the  U.  S.    1850. 

Souvenir  song  album,  singing  festival  and  convention  of  the  United  Swedish 
Singers  of  the  Pacific  Coast  at  San  Francisco  and  Oakland,  California 
June  16-24th,  1915;  Panama -Pacific  International  Exposition.  San  Fran- 
cisco, 1915. 

Souvenir  magazine  of  the  Jenny  Lind  centennial  celebration,  Minneapolis 
and  St.  Paul,  Minn.,  Oct.  9th  and  10th,  1920.   Minneapolis,  1920. 

Spangberg,  Ernst  A.  The  life  of  Jenny  Lind,  Oct.  6,  1820-Nov.  2,  1887.  A 
compilation  from  various  sources  in  commemoration  of  the  centenary 
of  her  birth.  Minneapolis,  1920. 

Stolpe,  Gustaf.  En  examinerad  musikdirektor.    [Rock  Island?]. 

Korer  for  blandade  roster  I-IV.   [Chicago],  n.  d. 

Tjugofyra  korer  for  mansroster.  Chicago,  1886. 

Sveaklang.   Sanger  for  mansroster.   Chicago,  1907. 

"Svea  Manskors"   illustrerade   Bellmans-nummer  med  program.     [Seattle], 

July  26,  1908. 
Svensk  teater.    Program.    Svenska  dramatiska  sallskapet  och  Svea  mans- 

kor  i  forening  med  Svenska  gleeklubben  .  .  .  Seattle,  [1907]. 
Svenska  Goodtemplares  sangbok  jSmte  bihang.    Samladt  och  utgifvet  af  C. 

G— n.  New  York,  1889. 
Svenskarnas  dag.    Minnehaha  park,  Sunday,  June  29th,  1941.    Eight  annual 

1941.   [Minneapolis,  1941]. 

140 


Svenska  konstnarer.   Chicago.  Arsskrift.   Chicago,  1929. 

[Svenska  Gleeklubben].  Souvenir  program  fran  Svenska  Gleeklubbens 
forsta  konsert  i  Horticultural  Hall,  Torsdagen  den  9  Jan.  1902.  Wor- 
cester, [1902]. 

Svenska  psalmboken.  Chicago,  1878. 

Svenska  sangar-forbundets  program.    Duluth,  1912. 

Svenska  sangar-forbundet  i  Amerika  sangalbum.   n.  p.,  n.  d. 

[Svenska  sangforeningen  i  New  York].  Stadgar  for  Svenska  sangforeningen 
i  New  York  antagna  den  2:  dra  Nov.  1869. 

Svenskt  konstnars  lexikon.  Malmo,  1952. 

Svenskt  portratt  galleri.  Stockholm,  1901.  20v. 

Swedish  American  Art  Association.  First  annual  exhibition  of  works  by 
Swedish -American  artists,  Women's  Athletic  Club,  March  10-17,  1929. 

Swedish-American  Art  Exhibition,  Swedish  Club.   Chicago,  1911. 

Swedish -American  Trans-Mississippi  jubilee  album  for  Svenskarnas  dag 
den  24:de  juni,  1898.    Omaha,  1898. 

Swedish  Choral  Club.   Messiah,  a  sacred  oratorio  by  Handel.   Chicago,  1934. 

Swenson,  J.  A.   Arpi-klubbens  album  for  mansroster.    St.  Paul,  1899. 

Taylor,  Francis  Henry.  Carl  Milles.  Cranbrook  Academy  of  Art.  Cran- 
brook,  Mich.,  1945. 

Till  Jesu  ara.  n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Unga-roster.    [M]  Chicago,  1909. 

United  Scandinavian  Singers  of  America.  Third  singing  festival.  Souvenir, 
Minneapolis,  July  17  to  21,  1891. 

[United  Swedish  Singers].  Souvenir-programme,  July  31,  1909,  Swedish 
Day  at  the  A.  Y.  P.  Seattle,  Wash.,  convention  of  the  United  Swedish 
Singers  of  the  Pacific  Coast  July  29-Aug.  4,  1909. 

Valda  hymner,  a  Swedish  Baptist  hymnal,  published  by  the  American  Bap- 
tist Publication  Society. 
Valline,  O.,  and  P.  T.  Lindholm.    Sang-album.    n.  p.,  1879. 

Sangalbum  innehallande  praktisk  sangskola.    Chicago,  n.  d. 

Valline,  O.   Vart  land.    Chicago,  1891. 

Vara  singer.   Kbrer  och  smarre  sangstycken.   Reck  Island,  n.  d. 

Verser  sjungna  vid  Par  Bricolls  sommarfest  i  New  York  den  31:sta  juli  1870. 

n.  p.,  n.  d. 
Wennerberg,  G.   Psalms  of  David.    Chicago,  1882. 
Wenngren,  Carl  Arvid.   Andeliga  sanger.   Moline,  1875. 

Westervelt,  Leonidas.  The  Jenny  Lind  medals  and  tokens.   New  York,  1921. 
Westman,  Erik  G.   Festskrift.   American  Union  of  Swedish  Singers,  Chicago, 

1927. 

Succesturne    genom    Sverige    1920.     En    rikt    illustrerad   skildring 

utarb.  for  The  Swedish  Choral  Club  of  Chicago.    Utg.  pa  bekostnad  af 
Charles  S.  Peterson.   [Chicago,  1921]. 

141 


Witting,   Victor.    Andeliga   Sanger   for   bone-,    class    och   forlangda   moten. 
Ofversatta,  urvalda  och  originella.    Bishop  Hill,  1859. 

Sanger  till  Jesu  ara.   For  bone-  och  vackelsembten.   n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Zions  sangbok  for  kyrkan  och  hemmet.   Chicago,  1887. 

ARTICLES 
Alin,  Hans.    "Chicago  male  choruses  give  concert  in  Sweden."    [Svithiod 
Singing  Club  of  Chicago.]   ASM,  41  (June  1947),  11,  18. 

"Swedish  stars  in  New  York  Opera."  ASR,  12  (Dec.  1924),  738-742. 

Anderson,  Netta  C.   "Oratorio  work  at  Augustana  College.   AB,  s.  2  (March 

15,  1906),  1-15. 
Anderson,  Ruth.   "Chicago  Women's  Chorus."   EB,  (1942),  37-40. 
Andreen,  Gustav.    "Dr.  O.  Olsson  och  den  forsta  oratorie-koren  i  Svensk- 

Amerika."  PB,  6  (1906),  214-227. 
Arndt,  Jessie  Ash.   "The  'Messiah'  at  Lindsborg."   CSM,  March  18,  1944. 
Aschehoug,   Elisabeth.    "Blue  glaze."     [Carl   Walters,   ceramist.]     ASM,   34 

(Aug.  1940),  10-11,  32-34. 
Asplund,  Edwin.   "The  Swedish  Male  Voice  Choir,  Winnipeg."   BAIS,  n.  s.  1 

(Apr.- June  1946),  8-9. 
Benson,  Adolph  B.    "American  appreciation  of  Jenny  Lind."    ASR,  8  (Oct. 

1920),  755-763. 
"Bland  svenskarne  i  Amerika.   Svenska  sangarforbundet  i  Amerika."   VK,  9 

(Sept.  1905),  442-444. 

Brase,  Hagbard.    "Musiken  vid  vara  svensk-amerikanska  laroverk."    PB,  8 

(1908),  73-86. 
Brodin,  Knut.    "Ett  avsnitt  emigrationsvisor."    STI,  (1938),  93-95. 
Cary,  Elisabeth  Luther.    "An  exhibition  of  work  by  American  painters  of 

Swedish  descent."   ASR,  8  (Aug.  1920),  598-605. 
Cervin,  Olof  Z.   "Kyrkoarkitekturen."  PB,  2  (1902),  117-121. 
Chandler,  Allison.    "An  art  center  in  Lindsborg."    ASR,  22   (March  1934), 

21-23. 
"The  Chicago  Institute's  Swedish  gallery."  ASR,  14  (Sept.  1926),  543. 
Coburn,  Frederick  W.   "A  Swedish-American  painter  of  the  West."    [J.  Olof 

Olson.]    ASR,  19  (July  1931),  423-425. 
Dodd,  Lornig  Holmes.  "Industrialist  and  art  collector."  [George  N.  Jeppson.] 

ASM,  35  (Feb.  1941),  8-10,  28. 
Dorph,  S.   "Jenny  Lind's  minne  i  Amerika."   Idun,  45  (1932),  112,  121. 
Eaton,  Quaintance.  "Sweden  in  music."  ASM,  43  (May  1949),  10,  20-21,  23,  25. 
Elmblad,  Magnus.   Kristina  Nilsson.   Folkdikt  i  tre  Sanger.   Chicago,  1882. 
Elmblad,  Sigrid.    Jenny  Lind.    En  livsstudie.    Svenska  kvinnor.  1.  Uppsala. 

1920. 
Enander,  J.  A.  "Da  Christina  Nilsson  kom  till  Chicago."  PB,  1  (1900) ,  50-61. 
"Emigrantvisor."   BF,  (1920-1921),  226-233. 
Ericson,  C.  George.   "Twenty-five  years  of  song."    [Swedish  Choral  Club  of 

Chicago.]    ASM,  35  (April  1941),  9,  29-30. 

142 


Fahraeus,  R.   "Carl  Milles."   OB,  36  (1927),  221-231. 

Fleck,  H.  C.    "And  the  miracle  of  music  descended  upon  them;  Swedish 

colony  at  Lindsborg,  and  its  annual   Messiah  performances."    MV,   50 

(April  1945),  81-82. 
Forsander,  Nils.   "Swedish  Lutheran  hymnology."   AJ,  3  (April  1895),  138. 
Fraser,  Eleanor  A.   "Carl  Ringius  and  his  art."    ASM,  28  (Sept.  1934),  287- 

288. 
Freeburg,  Victor  O.,  "Birger  Sandzen."   ASM,  31  (Jan.  1937),  7-10. 
Gisslow,  L.   "The  story  of  the  Swedish  song  on  the  West  Coast."   SEA,  v.  1, 

pp.  294-305. 
Grinndal,  G.   "Svenska  sangforeningen  lyran  i  New  York.   En  kortfattad  ur 

diverse  kallor  hamtad  historik."  MAS,  5  (no.  54,  1914) ,  1-2. 
Gustafson,  Philip.  "He  creates  an  American  style  in  architecture."  [Harrie  T. 

Lindeberg.]    ASM,  34  (July  1940),  6-8,  30-31. 
Hagelthorn,  Signe.   "Swedish  textile  art  in  America."   ASM,  29  (Aug.  1935), 

17-18,  41. 
Hall,  A.  Oakey.  "Nar  Jenny  Lind  sjong  i  Castle  Garden.  VK,  1  (Aug.  1897), 

6-14. 

Hansen,  Carl  G.  O.    "Scandinavian  singing  societies  in  the  Twin  Cities." 

BAIS,  1  (Apr.- June  1946),  2-4. 
Hessby,  Robert.    "Carl  Oscar  Borg,  portrayer  of  American  Indians."    ASM, 

29  (Jan.  1935),  7-8,  34. 
Hult,  Adolf.    "In  memoriam.    Doktor  Gustaf  Stolpe."    VK,  5    (Dec.  1901), 

609-612. 
Jacobson,  Margaret  E.    "The  painted  record  of  a  community  experiment: 

Olof  Krans  and  his  pictures  of  the  Bishop  Hill  colony."   JIHS,  34  (June 

1941),  164-176. 
"Jenny  Lind  collection  gets  permanent  home."  ASM,  39  (Nov.  1945) ,  11,  26. 
Johansen,  C.  K.    "Hur  Svenska  sangarforbundet  i  Amerika  kom  till.    Ett 

40-arsminne."  MAS,  22  (no.  218,  1932) ,  8-10. 
Johanson,   Charles  K.    "The  American   Union  of  Swedish   Singers."    SIA, 

pp.  469-472. 
Johnson,  Edward.    "The  American  Union  of  Swedish  Singers."   BAIS,  n.  s. 

1  (Apr.- June  1946),  5-7. 
Karlsson,  John.    Messiaskoren  i  Amerika.    Marklig  skapelse  av  svenskatt- 

lingar.  AS,  31  (June  1944),  9,  19. 
Landelius,  C.  R.  "Charles  Kaeselau."  US,  14  (no.  11,  1952) ,  12-13. 
Larson,    Cedric.     "Dean    of    domestic    architecture    in    America."     [Harrie 

Thomas  Lindeberg.]    BASI,  5  (Sept.  1950),  14-21. 

"Our  musical  Swedes."  MUD,  29  (June- July  1948). 

Larson,  Theodore  C.    "Architects  and  builders."    SIA,  pp.  416-434. 
Larsson,  Gustaf.   "Svensk  slojd  i  Amerika."   VK,  1  (April  1897),  4-8. 
Lawson,  Evald  B.    "An  afternoon  with  Carl  Sandburg."    ASM,   28    (Nov. 

1934),  360,  386. 

"Christina  Nilssons  besok  i  Brockton,  Mass.,  1870.  Samt  nigra  blad 

ur  Brockton-forsamlingens  tidiga  historia.   KB,  55  (1934),  114-132. 

143 


"Christina  Nilsson's  visit  to  Brockton,  Mass.,  in  November,  1870. 

Pages  from  the  early  history  of  the  oldest  Swedish  Lutheran  Church 
in  New  England."   AHP,  3  (1933),  81-96. 

Liljencrants,  Johan.    "A  Swedish  American  sculptor  and  his  work."    [Olaf 
Bjorkman.]   ASM,  28  (Oct.  1934),  325-327. 

"Sigvard    Bernadotte,    a    Hollywood    director."     ASM,    28    (April, 

1934),  110-111,  120. 

Linder,  Oliver  A.    "Painters  and  sculptors."    SIA,  pp.  488-505. 
Lindhagen,  Nils.   "Carl  Milles."   US,  7  (no.  4,  1945),  16-18. 
Lindquist,  Emory.  "Seven  decades  of  song.  The  'Messiah'  tradition  at  Linds- 
borg,  Kansas."   SPHQ,  3  (July  1952),  67-74. 

"The  story  of  the  Lindsborg  'Messiah'."   SCD,  (Oct.  1944),  90,  113- 

114. 

Lund,  Emil.    "Jenny  Lind.  —  Ett  hundraarsminne."   KB,  42  (1921),  145-156. 
Lundbergh,  Holger.   "Carl  Sandburg."  ASR,  26  (March  1938) ,  49-51. 

"Christmas  music."   ASM,  35  (Dec.  1941),  4-5,  32-33. 

"Howard  Hanson;  a  Swedish  chord  in  American  music."   ASM,  28 

(March  1934),  68-70. 

"John  F.  Carlson."    [Painter.]    ASM,  30  (May  1936),  10-12. 

"Kerstin  Thorberg."    ASM,  31  (Feb.  1937),  8-9,  38. 

"Ruth  Grafstrom,  designer  of  fashions."  ASM,  30  (Feb.  1936) ,  7-9. 

"Stage  and  radio  performers."    SIA,  pp.  482-487. 


Lundquist,  Carl  Hjalmar.    "Six  decades  of  song."    [Svithiod  Singing  Club.] 

ASM,  36  (March  1942),  12,  30. 
MacGowan,    Clara.     "He   works  fancy    into   metals."     [Ernst   Hagerstrom.] 

ASM,  31  (July  1937),  15-19. 
Malm,  G.  N.   "Messias-sangen  pa  prarien."   KB,  46  (1925),  129-150. 
Mellen,  I.  M.   "The  Jenny  Lind  centennial  celebration."   ZSB,  33  (Nov.  1920), 

130-133. 
N[ilsson],  H.  [T.]    "Svensk  sang  i  Amerika."   MAS,  8  (no.  97,  1917),  1-6. 
Nilsson,  Hjalmar.    "Den  forsta  svensk -amerikanska   operan:    'Frithiof  och 

Ingeborg.'    Opera  i  tre  akter,  dramatiserad  efter  E.  Tegners  'Frithiofs 

saga'  af  Anna  Cronhjelm  Wallberg.   Musik  af  C.  F.  Hanson.   Forst  upp- 

ford  a  Worcester  Theatre  i  Worcester,  Mass.,  den  8,  9  och  10  Dec.  1898." 

VK,  3  (Jan.  1899),  18-22. 

"Svensk  sang  i  Amerika.  En  kort  aterblick."  PB,  2  (1902),  150-161. 

Nilsson,  Victor.    "Composers."    SIA,  pp.  435-452. 

"Northern    music    in    America.     Swedish."     ASR,    4    (March-April 

1916),  87-93. 

"Sangarfarden  till   Sverige.    Svenska  sangarforbundets   i  Amerika 


triumftag  till  Sverige  1897."   VK,  1  (Dec.  1897),  13-18. 

"Svensk-amerikanska  elitkorens  Sverigefard  1910."    PB,  11    (1911), 

117-146. 

Svensk  musik  i  Minneapolis.    SSE,  (1920),  70-74. 

"Svenska    sangarforbundets    historia."    VK,    1    (Feb.    1897),   25-29. 

144 


"Svenska  sangarfordunbets  i  Amerika  trimftag  till  Sverige."    VK, 

11  (June  1907),  287-289. 

Svenskt  musikliv  i  Minneapolis  och  St.  Paul.  AS,  24  (Oct.  5,  1937), 


28-34. 

Nordkvist,  Gust  Harald,  and  Jakob  Bonggren.  "Sang  och  musik."  SVIA, 
v.  2,  pp.  252-267. 

Ohlson,  O.  P.  "Den  svenska  sangen  i  Amerika."   PB,  6  (1906),  57-79. 
"Olaf  Krans,  folk  painter  of  1846;  Bishop  Hill  colony,  Illinois."    Hobbies,  48 
(Aug.  1943),  13. 

Ollen,  Olof.    "Silver  soprano  from  Sweden."    [Hjordis  Schymberg.]    ASM, 

41  (April  1947),  12,  20-21. 
Olson,  E.  W.   "Augustana  Choir  on  tour."   ASM,  32  (March  1938),  4-6. 

"Svensk  konst  in  Amerika."   SVIA,  v.  2,  pp.  226-251. 

Olson,  Oscar  N.  "A  forgotten  instrument."  LC,  51  (Nov.  10,  1943) ,  1256-1258. 

"Ebba  Sundstrom;  foremost  American  symphony  conductor."   ASM, 

30  (Nov.  1936),  10-12. 

"Paintings  tell  story  of  prairie  communal  town,  Bishop  Hill,  Illinois."    Life, 

16  (Jan.  31,  1944),  10-22. 
Peterson,  Elmer  T.   "A  flower  in  the  buffalo  sod."    [Bethany  College.]    MC, 

22  (1936),  70-79. 
"Pictorial  profile."    [Sigfrid  A.  Larson.]    ASM,  42  (Oct.  1948),  18. 
Pihlblad,  C.  Terence.   "Kansas  Swedes."   SSQ,  3  (June  1932),  34-47. 

"A  Swedish  community  in  Kansas."   ASHF,  (1945),  30-47. 

Pihlblad,  Ernst  Frederick.   "A  Swedish  Bayreuth  in  Kansas."   ASR,  1  (May 

1913),  9-12. 

Price,  Matlack.  "Harrie  I.  Lindeberg.  His  contributions  to  American  ar- 
chitecture."  ASR,  12  (Sept.  1924),  527-529. 

Rehnstrand,  J.  "Arts  and  crafts  of  Scandinavian  immigrants  to  America." 
SCA,  12  (March  1933),  428-429. 

Renstrom,  A.  G.  "Earliest  Swedish  imprints  in  the  United  States."  BSA, 
39  (no.  3,  1945),  181-191. 

Ringius,  Carl.  "Jenny  Lind  in  Hartford  and  in  the  Valley  of  Connecticut." 
SHS,  5  (1914-1915),  22-30. 

Rogers,  Meyric  R.    "Carl  Milles  in  America."    ASR,  29  (Sept.  1941),  197. 

Rooth,  Gerhard,  T.  "Jenny  Lind.  The  sensation  of  a  century."  BASI,  5 
(Dec.  1950),  6-10. 

Ryden,  E.  E.  "The  fine  arts  among  Swedish-Americans  in  Illinois."  ASD, 
pp.  53-93. 

Sandberg,  Helge.  "Jenny  Linds  brollop  i  Boston  och  smekmanad  i  North- 
ampton." STM,  2  (1920),  179-183. 

Sandzen,  Birger.  "En  svensk-amerikansk  konstsamling."  PB,  6  (1906),  121- 
132. 

"Nagot  om  svensk  konst  i  Amerika."    PB,  2  (1902),  99-116. 

"Svensk-amerikanska   konstnaremas   utstallning   i   Chicago   1912." 

PB,  13  (1913),  20-38. 

145 


"Vara  svensk-amerikanska  konstskolor."   PB,  3  (1903),  40-55. 


Schon,  A.    "Den  forsta  storre  svensk-amerikanska  konstutstallningen."    PB, 

12  (1912),  123-142. 
"En  svensk-amerikansk  konstsamlare.  Nagra  ord  om  direktbr  Fritz 

Schoultz  och  hans  hem."  PB,  11  (1911),  205-221. 
"Gustaf  Stolpe.  Dodsruna."   PB,  2  (1902),  262-266. 


Skoog,  A.  L.   "Minnen  fran  min  korsverksamhet."  UMG,  pp.  105-134. 
Stenung,  J.    "Jenny  Lind   och  Gustaf  Unonius.    Nagra   erinringar  till   80- 

arsminnet  av  sangerskans  Amerikafard."   AS,  17  (Nov.  25,  1930),  1,  8-9. 
Sundelius,  Marie.    "Opera  singers."    SIA,  pp.  453-468. 
"Svenska    sangforeningen    lyran    i    New    York.     Ett   tioarsminne."    VK,    3 

(April  1899),  203-205. 
Swan,  G.  N.   "Fredrika  Bremer  och  Jenny  Lind  i  Forenta  Staterna.    Nagra 

anteckningar  om  deras  farder  har  i  landet."  PB,  4  (1904),  165-198. 
"Swedish  American  art  to  Swedish  museum."   ASM,  28  (July  1934),  223. 
"Swedish  art  to  Chicago."   ASR,  9  (Sept.  1921),  625. 
"Swedish  church  architecture  in  America."   ASR,  11  (March  1923),  176. 
"Swedish  sloyd  in  America."   ASR,  2  (Nov.  1914),  28. 
Swensson,  Carl  Aaron.    "Bethany  College."   FME,  (1902),  35-102. 

" 'Messias'-veckan    i    Lindsborg,    Kansas."     VK,    5     (June    1901), 

333-341. 

Swensson,  Sven  E.  "Amerikansk  musik  i  Sverige."    NFM,  1   (June  1938), 

421-423. 
Thulin,  Einar.  "Recollections  of  the  'Prince  of  Pilsen'."   [Arthur  Donaldson.] 

ASM,  34  (May  1940),  10,  33-34. 
Turtle,    Howard   W.     "Easter   in   Lindsborg;    sixty-first    Messiah   festival." 

Scholastic,  40  (March  30,  1942),  21-22. 

Oberammergau  of  the  Plains."    [Lindsborg,  Kansas.]    RD,   (April 

1944),  86-87. 

"What  must  Lindsborg  be!"    CG,  2  (Spring  1942),  77-80. 

Vanderwoort,  Paul.    "Music-maker  in  Hollywood."    [Manny  Strand.]    ASM, 

39  (Nov.  1945),  20-21. 
Wagner,  Ellen  D.   "Marvelous  music  maker."    [Vin  Lindhe.]    ASM,  32  (Oct. 

1938),  4-6. 
Wohl,  Burton.  "Olle  Comstedt,  A.S.C.  Swedish  cameraman."  ASM,  42  (Feb. 

1948),  14-15,  22-23,  25. 
Wangner,  Ellen  D.    "Influences  of  Swedish  design  on  American  arts  and 

crafts."    ASM,  29  (Oct.  1935),  7-9,  37-38. 
Westman,  Erik  G.    "A  Swedish  art  center  in  Chicago."    ASR,  3  (Sept. -Oct. 

1915),  303-306. 
Wilhelm,  Prince  of  Sweden.   "A  Swedish  oasis."    [Lindsborg,  Kansas.]    ASR, 

16  (Feb.  1928),  103-106. 
Wilson,  Linton.    "Indian  and  Orpheus;  the  latest  creations  of  Carl  Milles." 

ASM,  30  (Aug.  1936),  4-7,  42. 

"The  meeting  of  the  rivers."    [Carl  Milles.]    ASM,  34  (July  1940), 

18-19,  29-30. 

146 


Chapter  Nine 

NEWSPAPERS,  PERIODICALS,  AND  ANNUALS 

The  Swedish-American  press  includes  a  large  number  of  weeklies, 
monthly  journals  and  annuals.  Experiments  were  made  in  the  publication 
of  daily  newspapers,  but  these  soon  proved  to  be  failures.  Many  of  the 
weekly  newspapers  were  entirely  secular,  while  others  had  strong  ties  with 
a  definite  church  group.  The  ties  with  the  church  could  vary  in  strength 
and  in  importance.  Those  with  the  strongest  religious  interest  aimed  to  do 
little  else  than  to  provide  their  readers  with  devotional  literature,  and  their 
news  items  would  center  upon  the  church.  Among  these  weeklies  are  to  be 
found  a  number  which  had  a  great  and  continuous  influence  upon  the  life 
of  the  immigrants.  These  included  the  chief  organs  of  the  several  denomi- 
nations which  sought  to  appeal  to  a  circle  of  readers  scattered  over  almost 
all  of  the  United  States.  Their  span  of  life  was  usually  long  even  though 
the  name  of  the  weekly  was  sometimes  changed.  These  papers  faced  almost 
from  the  very  beginning  competition  from  periodicals  with  a  more  regional 
appeal.  Frequently  these  had  only  a  local  interest.  Literally  hundreds  of 
congregations  began  to  publish  their  own  monthly  journals,  which  some- 
times consisted  of  syndicated  articles  and  illustrations  providing  little  that 
was  original  except  perhaps  a  page  dealing  with  news  about  the  local 
churches.  Often  these  rose  suddenly  upon  the  scene  to  disappear  as  quickly. 
In  a  few  instances  they  enjoyed  a  long  life  surviving  even  a  change  in 
language  from  Swedish  to  English,  while  retaining  their  characteristics  as 
parish  papers. 

The  story  of  many  of  the  religious  weeklies  and  periodicals  is  essentially 
the  same.  The  central  organs  remained  the  chief  spokesmen  of  the  larger 
denomination  on  matters  of  faith,  creed,  polity,  etc.,  while  regional  papers 
generally  remained  regional  and  local  remained  local.  But  there  were  ex- 
ceptions when  regional  organs  challenged  the  domination  of  the  central  ones 
with  a  degree  of  success,  and  a  solution  sometimes  had  to  be  found  in  a 
merger.  Sometimes  a  local  paper  aspired  successfully  to  become  a  regional 
journal,  the  organ  of  a  district  or  a  conference.  In  fewer  instances  yet,  its 
transformation  was  more  complete  when  it  became  a  political  newspaper. 
The  great  mortality  rate  among  these  religious  periodicals  and  parish  papers 
and  the  failure  of  any  institution  to  collect  these  with  any  thoroughness 
makes  a  study  of  them  disconcerting.  Consequently  not  all  regional  re- 
ligious journals  and  scattered  parish  papers  are  included  in  the  guide. 

The  mortality  rate  was  no  less  great  among  the  secular  newspapers.  A 
few  of  these  have,  however,  as  long  a  record  of  continuous  existence  as  the 
major  religious  weeklies.  Some  of  those  which  were  published  in  Chicago 
had  more  than  a  regional  significance.  Otherwise  the  secular  newspapers 
tended  definitely  to  serve  a  given  region.  A  few  of  these  sought  to  concen- 
trate upon  the  Eastern  States  or  New  England,  while  others  appealed  to  the 
Middle  West  or  the  Far  West.    A  number  of  successful  newspapers  were 

147 


even  more  local  in  their  scope  of  interest.  This  division  of  labor  seemed 
necessary.  It  was  difficult  to  compete  for  subscribers  on  a  national  basis, 
and  the  reputation  of  the  larger  Chicago  papers  seemed  greater  than  their 
financial  status  warranted  or  their  national  influence  justified.  The  same 
reputation  was  enjoyed  by  those  newspapers  which  were  known  as  im- 
portant regional  newspapers.  It  seemed  both  logical  as  well  as  less  costly 
to  win  local  support  and  in  this  way  avoid  competition  from  the  already 
existing  newspapers.  Many  newspapers  were  ill-fated  adventures,  started 
on  almost  no  capital,  and  when  they  failed  to  secure  immediate  support  they 
were  discontinued.  Sometimes  enough  capital  could  not  be  raised  to  pub- 
lish more  than  the  first  week's  issue  expressing  all  the  hopes  of  the  pub- 
lisher and  the  editor.  Thus  the  story  of  the  Swedish-American  press  is 
filled  with  hopes  never  realized. 

The  developments  described  above  both  in  regard  to  the  religious  as  well 
as  the  secular  press  have  their  significance  to  a  historian.  They  make  pos- 
sible a  more  intensive  study  of  the  distribution  and  occupations  of  the  im- 
migrants. They  provide  almost  a  third  dimension,  namely,  that  of  depth, 
to  the  study  of  the  immigrants  in  America.  Through  these  newspapers  it  is 
possible  to  see  the  life  of  the  immigrants  as  they  lived  it.  There  is  hardly 
an  aspect  of  life  not  mirrored  in  the  press.  Here  are  to  be  seen  the  lighter 
side  of  life  with  its  laughters  and  joy  and  its  more  serious  side  of  tears  and 
sorrow.    Here  birth  and  death  walked  hand  in  hand. 

The  third  dimension  of  depth  is  less  evident  in  the  interests  of  the  immi- 
grants in  events  abroad  in  the  old  country  and  in  reactions  to  events  of  in- 
ternational significance.  On  these  scores  originality  was  not  a  virtue  of  the 
Swedish-American  press.  The  scissors  were  used  more  readily  than  the 
pen  in  news  items  of  the  above  nature.  Among  the  many  common  features 
would  be  one  consisting  of  letters  from  subscribers.  These  are  one  of  the 
most  valuable  sources  on  the  life  of  the  immigrants.  Here  each  person  re- 
counts his  experiences  in  America.  Only  the  print  or  ink  and  the  grade  of 
paper  is  the  same.  No  historian  has  made  use  of  these  excellent  primary 
sources  on  American  history. 

G.  N.  Swan  has  given  a  good  description  of  the  literary  periodicals  and 
annuals  published  by  the  Swedes  in  America.  A  few  had  high  literary 
standards,  but  it  is  doubtful  that  many  deserved  the  name  of  literary  jour- 
nals. There  were  those  which  sought  to  appeal  to  a  family  circle  of  readers, 
and  these  might  be  called  home  journals.  Others  contained  humorous 
stories  from  the  old  country  and  some  interesting  illustrations  which  are 
original.  The  best  known  of  the  artists  of  these  illustrations  was  Gus  Hig- 
gins  who  found  few  virtues  in  himself.  Upon  his  tombstone  he  requested 
that  an  epitaph  should  be  written  stating  that  though  he  was  a  careless, 
shiftless  drunkard  he  was  not  a  hypocrite.  Almost  every  type  of  magazine 
and  journal  was  represented  in  the  Swedish-American  press.  Fate  was 
harsh  to  the  best  and  the  poorest.  Some  of  these  journals  sought  to  identify 
themselves  with  a  church  group,  and  this  connection  was  reflected  in  the 
content  of  the  journals.  The  publication  of  monthly  journals  and  quarterlies 
represented  a  venture  involving  an  element  of  great  financial  risk.  It  was 
not  easy  to  secure  support  for  a  journal,  and  regardless  of  how  carefully  it 
might  have  been  gauged  or  blue  printed,  it  could  prove  a  costly  failure 
after  a  few  months  or  a  year. 

148 


Annuals  involved  less  of  a  risk,  and  there  were  many  of  these.  Sometimes 
only  one  number  of  an  annual  was  published,  and  from  a  technical  point  of 
view  one  might  question  whether  such  a  volume  is  an  annual.  Then  there 
were  calendars  and  almanacs,  most  of  which  have  little  or  no  significance. 
A  few  of  these  were  little  more  than  advertising  media  of  local  merchants 
of  a  given  community.  This  was  true  of  many  Christmas  calendars  or  an- 
nuals. The  Royal  Library  has  a  special  collection  of  these  for  the  years 
1870-1933. 

A  list  of  the  most  important  religious  weeklies  and  secular  newspapers 
would  be  very  brief.  The  list  of  important  literary  journals  and  annuals 
would  be  even  smaller.  The  church  affiliation  is  an  important  index 
as  to  the  major  characteristics  of  many  of  the  journals  and  annuals,  but  it 
would  not  be  an  index  to  their  merits.  Without  denying  the  importance  of 
other  church  affiliated  journals  and  annuals,  it  seems  likely  that  Vngdoms- 
v'dnnen  and  Prarieblomman,  together  with  the  secular  annual  Valkyrian, 
represent  the  best  literary  efforts  among  the  Swedish  immigrants.  A  tangible 
and  objective  yardstick  of  judgment  is,  of  course,  absent,  but  needless  to 
say  several  journals  and  annuals  set  their  standards  too  high  rather  than 
too  low  for  success. 

The  Swedish-American  press  is  also  represented  by  the  publication  of 
newspapers  which  were  no  more  than  "flysheets"  advertising  land  for  sale, 
or  the  platform  and  candidates  of  a  political  party.  The  average  life  span 
of  a  Swedish-American  newspaper  was  short.  These  special  publications 
serving  a  very  limited  purpose  under  the  cloak  of  being  newspapers  were 
of  even  shorter  existence. 

One  of  the  major  problems  in  the  preparation  of  the  list  of  newspapers 
and  periodicals  is  the  question  of  which  ones  should  be  included.  The  items 
listed  below  are  essentially  newspapers,  journals,  and  annuals  which  have 
been  preserved.  The  references  are  more  inclusive  than  those  included 
under  other  chapters  as  these  represent  perhaps  the  best  general  source  on 
the  Swedes  in  America.  Those  not  found  at  Augustana  College  and  the 
Royal  Library  in  Stockholm  might  be  found  at  one  of  the  colleges  founded 
by  the  immigrants.  College  catalogues  and  bulletins  have  not  been  included 
in  this  bibliography,  but  these  can  be  found  on  file  in  the  libraries  or  of- 
fices of  the  respective  colleges. 

If  possible,  the  newspapers,  periodicals,  and  annuals  are  identified  as 
weeklies,  monthlies,  quarterlies  or  annuals  if  this  fact  is  not  apparent  in  the 
title,  and  religious  affiliation  is  indicated  where  it  existed  and  when  the 
title  does  not  make  this  clear. 


REFERENCES 

Absolutisten.  Nykterhetstidning  for  svenskarne  i  Ostern.  Boston,  1896.  A 
temperance  publication. 

Advance.  An  illustrated  annual  of  the  Baptist  General  Conference  of 
America.    Chicago,  1945-1951.    A  continuation  of  Ebenezer. 

Advance.  [L]  Minneapolis,  1942.  A  publication  of  the  Minnesota  Confer- 
ence. 

149 


Advent-harold.    [SDA]  Battle  Creek,  Mich.,  and  Kristiania,  Norway,  1880- 

1883.   A  continuation  of  Svensk  advents  harold.   In  1883  it  became  San- 

ningens  harold. 
Advent-rosten.    [SDA]    Cambridge  City,  Minn.,  1877. 
Afton-bladet   Skandia.     Chicago,    1890-1891.     This    represents   an    effort   to 

publish  a  Swedish  daily  in  Chicago. 
Aftonstjernan.    Kristlig  manadstidning.    [L]    Gowrie,  Iowa,  1898-1910. 
Aftontimman.    [C]    New  York,  1923 -?    A  monthly  published  to  promote  the 

interests  of  the  Old  People's  Home  of  the  Eastern  Missionary  Association. 

Agatokraten.  Buffalo,  May-Aug.  1880.  A  monthly  which  was  the  fore- 
runner of  Upply  suing  ens  tidehvarf,  Grove  City,  Feb.  1881-. 

Agathocraten.  Dedicated  to  abolition  of  poverty,  ignorance  and  wickedness. 
Lake  Constance,  Minn.,  1876-1877.  Last  number  called  Truthteller. 

Allarm.  Midvinter  publikation  utg.  av  Scandinavian  Workers'  Educational 
Society.    Chicago,  1928. 

Alumnus.  A  monthly  magazine  published  by  the  Alumni  Association  of 
Augustana  College,  Rock  Island,  111.  Rock  Island,  1892-1894.  Continued 
as  Augustana  journal. 

American  Daughters  of  Sweden.    Yearbook.    1927,  1928. 

American  Institute  of  Swedish  Arts,  Literature,  and  Science.  Yearbook. 
Minneapolis,  1945. 

American  Scandinavian.    New  York,  1911. 

American  Scandinavian  review.  Published  (1913-1919:  bi-monthly,  1920- 
1929:  monthly)  by  the  American-Scandinavian  Foundation.  (1922-1939). 
New  York,  1913-. 

American  Scandinavian  times.  New  York,  1909.  A  monthly  published  by 
the  American  Scandinavian  Society. 

American  Society  of  Swedish  Engineers.  Bulletin.  New  York  or  Brooklyn, 
1907-.    Called  also  American  Swedish  engineer. 

American- Swedish  handbook.  A  publication  of  the  Augustana  Institute  of 
Swedish  Culture.   Rock  Island,  1943,  1945,  1948. 

American-Swedish  Historical  Museum.  Bulletin.  Philadelphia,  1947-.  Pub- 
lished irregularly  since  1948. 

American-Swedish  Historical  Museum.  Yearbook.  Philadelphia,  1944-1946. 
Continued  as  American  Swedish  Historical  Foundation.  Yearbook.  1947-. 
Lack  of  funds  have  made  additional  publications  impossible  at  present. 

American  Swedish  monthly.  New  York,  1934- .  A  continuation  of  Swedish- 
American  trade  journal  and  the  earlier  Bulletin  begun  in  1907.  It  is 
sponsored  by  the  Swedish  Chamber  of  Commerce  of  the  United  States. 

Amerika-narren.  Published  by  the  Scandinavian  Workers'  Educational  So- 
ciety, Chicago,  Sept. -Nov.  1927.   A  monthly. 

Arbetaren.  Cadillac  and  Grand  Rapids,  Mich.  1890-1894.  Merged  with 
Svenska  amerikanaren  in  1904. 

Arbetaren,  New  York,  1896-1928.  A  weekly  publication  of  the  Scandinavian 
Socialist  Labor  Society,  and  after  1906  of  the  American  Scandinavian 
Labor  Union.  A  continuation  of  Skandinaviska  amerikanska  arbetera- 
ren. 

150 


Arbetarens  van.  Worcester,  1891-1892;  1896-1898.  A  weekly  which  changed 
name  to  Nya  fdderneslandet  in  1899.  I  had  represented  a  merger  of 
Blixten  och  dundret  after  1895  with  Arbetaren  and  Arbetarens  van. 

Arenan,  tidskrift  for  hemmet  och  ungdomen.  [C]  Minneapolis,  Jan. -April 
1902.    Bought  and  absorbed  by  Linnea. 

Argus.   Boston,  Mass.,  1893-1899.    A  weekly. 

Ashland  bladet.  Ashland,  Wis.,  1902-1907.  A  weekly.  A  continuation  of 
Ashland  posten.  It  was  later  absorbed  by  Svenska  amerikanska  tribunen. 

Ashland  posten.  Ashland,  Wis.  1901-1902.   Changed  name  to  Ashland  bladet. 

Astoria  bladet.   Astoria,  Ore.,  1915-1918.    A  weekly. 

Astoria  rapport.  Astoria,  Ore.,  1915-1918.  A  monthly. 

Augustana.  Manatlig  tidskrift  for  Svenska  lutherska  kyrkan  i  Amerika. 
Chicago.  1869-1873.  Merged  with  R'dtta  hemlandet  in  1869.  It  was  called 
after  1873  Augustana.   Luthersk  kyrkotidning. 

Augustana.  Luthersk  kyrkotidning  innehallande  "nytt  och  gammalt"  ur 
Guds  ord  och  forsamling.  Rock  Island  and  Moline,  1874-1889.  1879-1889 
continued  as  Augustana  och  missionaren,  vecko-tidning  for  kyrka  och 
mission. 

Augustana  och  missionaren.  Rock  Island,  1879-1889.  The  name  of  Missio- 
naren dropped  in  1889.  It  was  a  continuation  of  the  old  Augustana  and 
still  older  Ratta  hemlandet. 

Augustana.  (Augustana.  Luthersk  kyrkotidning  .  .  .)  Tidning  for  den 
Svenska  lutherska  kyrkan  i  Amerika.  Rock  Island,  1889- .  A  continua- 
tion of  Augustana  och  missionaren.  In  1950  it  became  Augustana  lut- 
heranen,  den  svenska  upplagan  av  Augustana  Lutheran,  and  in  1952  it 
was  called  Augustana  lutheranen. 

Augustana  almanack.  Rock  Island.  This  almanac  contains  various  informa- 
tion about  Augustana  Synod,  listing  names  of  pastors  and  their  ad- 
dresses. It  has  been  published  for  many  years  by  the  Augustana  Book 
Concern.   Discontinued  1947. 

Augustana  annual.  Rock  Island,  1948- .  A  continuation  of  My  Church  and 
the  Augustana  almanack. 

Augustana  foreign  missionary  monthly  magazine.   Rock  Island,  1926-1938. 

Augustana  Historical  Society  publications.  Rock  Island,  1931 -.  Often  a  part 
of  the  Augustana  College  Library  publications. 

Augustana  Hospital  bulletin.    Chicago,  1929-1931. 

Augustana  journal,  Rock  Island,  1894-1907.  Continuation  of  Alumnus, 
which  had  been  a  publication  of  the  Alumni  Association.  In  1895  the 
Augustana  Book  Concern  took  over  its  publication. 

Augustana  Lutheran,  Rock  Island,  1950-1951.     (See  Lutheran  Companion.) 

Augustana  Luther  Leaguer.  Chicago,  1923- .  A  young  people's  journal  of 
the  Augustana  Synod. 

Augustana  missions.  Minneapolis,  1948- .  An  Augustana  Synod  publication 
devoted  to  home  and  foreign  missions. 

Augustana  observer.  Philadelphia,  New  York,  and  Rock  Island,  1881-1885. 
Represents  an  effort  to  publish  a  religious  periodical  in  English. 

151 


Augustana  och  missionaren.  Veckotidning  for  kyrka  och  mission  .  .  .  Rock 
Island,  1879-1889.  Formerly  Augustana.  Luthersk  kyrkotidning . 

Augustana  quarterly.  Rock  Island,  1922-1948.  A  theological  quarterly.  Con- 
tinued as  The  Lutheran  quarterly  of  Gettysburg,  Pa. 

Augustana  theological  quarterly.    Rock  Island,  1899-1917. 

Aurora.    Chicago,  1892-1893.    Weekly  political  newspaper. 

Aurora.   Place  of  publication  unknown.  1891-1892.   Temperance  journal. 

Aurora.  Kristlig  kalender.  Utgifves  af  Svenska  missionsforbundet  i  Ame- 
rika.  Chicago  and  Minneapolis.   1899-1933.   A  Covenant  yearbook. 

Axplockerskan.  Omaha,  1900-1904?  Quarterly.  A  publication  of  the  Dea- 
coness Institute  of  Omaha,  Nebr. 

Balder.  Rock  Island,  1890-1891.  A  student  literary  publication  which  was 
continued  as  The  Lyceum  annual.  A  publication  of  the  Phrenokosmian 
Society  and  the  Adelphic  Society.   Both  Swedish  and  English  text. 

Baneret.  [B]  Minneapolis  and  St.  Paul,  1901-1911.  A  continuation  of  Sven- 
ska baptisternas  tidning  which  had  been  published  in  Burlington,  la. 
It  became  a  weekly  in  1903. 

The  Baptist  evangel.  Chicago,  1931-1940.  A  monthly  publication  of  the  Bap- 
tist General  Conference. 

Den  barmhertig  samariten.  Chicago,  1888.  Only  one  copy  of  this  monthly 
(June)  published  in  behalf  of  the  Augustana  Hospital. 

Barnens  julkalender  .  .  .  [Published  by  Minneapolis  veckoblad.]  Minne- 
apolis, n.  d. 

Barnens  tidning.  Rock  Island,  1896- ?  A  magazine  for  children,  published 
bi-monthly  for  several  years. 

Barnhemsvannen.  En  ropande  rost  fran  Gustaf  Adolf s  barnhem  1912. 
Jamestown,  1912. 

Barnvannen.  [L]  New  York,  1874-1875.  Boston,  1875-1878.  Chicago,  1878- 
1888.  A  monthly. 

Barometern.  Sioux  City,  1884-1886.  Continued  as  Nybyggaren,  published  at 
Sheldon,  la. 

Basar-trumpeten.  Boston,  1902.  Only  one  number  dated  Dec.  1902,  pub- 
lished in  behalf  of  the  singing  festival  in  Boston,  June,  1903. 

Beacon.  The  New  York  Conference  Lutheran  beacon.  Rock  Island,  1930- 
1933. 

Betania  (or  Bethania).  Rock  Island,  1905-1913.  A  monthly  publication  for 
the  La  Porte  District  of  the  Illinois  Conference  of  the  Augustana  Synod. 

Bethania.    [L]    Lindsborg,  1891 -. 

Bethania.  Evangelisk  luthersk  uppbyggelsetidning.  Chicago,  1881-1885.  Pub- 
lished 1882-1884  first  in  Burlington  and  later  in  Des  Moines,  la. 

Bethany  messenger.  Lindsborg,  1893-.  A  monthly  magazine  devoted  to  the 
interests  of  Bethany  College  at  Lindsborg,  Kansas. 

Bethel  baneret.  [B]  Minneapolis,  1915-1917.  A  periodical  aiming  to  pro- 
mote the  interests  of  Bethel  Seminary. 

Bethel  herald.  [B]  St.  Paul,  1918.  A  publication  aimed  to  serve  interests  of 
Bethel  Institute  and  of  the  same  nature  as  Acorn.  Scminarie-posten, 
Bethel  evangel  and  Clarion. 

152 


Bethlehemstjarnan.    Julkalender.    [M]   [Chicago?],  1889. 

Bethphagebiblioteket.    [L]   Axtell,  Neb.,  1915. 

Bethphage  messenger.    [L]    Axtell,  Neb.,  1913-.   A  monthly. 

Bien.  San  Francisco,  1882.  A  monthly. 

Bifrost.  En  manadtlig  tidskrift  for  de  svenska  fbreningarne  i  Forenta  Sta- 
terna.    New  York,  1885. 

Blixten  och  dundret.  Worcester,  Mass.,  Oct.,  1894-Jan.,  1895.  A  weekly. 
Changed  name  to  Arbetaren  and  later  merged  with  Arbetarens  van  in 
1895,  which  in  1899,  became  Nya  fdderneslandet.   1899-1901. 

Blokadbrytaren.  Ironwood,  Mich.,  1891-1892.  A  weekly  and  a  continuation 
of  Michigan  tribunen  to  which  name  it  returned  shortly. 

Blackfisken.  Utgiven  av  Svenska  journalistforbundet  i  America.  Chicago, 
[1920].    A  yearbook. 

Bokstugan.    Organ  for  studieforbundet  Verdandi,  Chicago,  1918? 

Boone  svenska  harold.  Boone,  la.,  1896.  A  weekly.  Iowa  edition  of  Nyu 
pressen,  Moline,  111. 

Boston  allehanda.  Boston,  1891-1892.  A  weekly. 

Bref-dufvan.  A  Swedish  religious  monthly  publication  by  the  Scandinavian 
Mission  Society.    Minneapolis  and  Buffalo,  1912-1933. 

Breidablick.  Jubilee  annual,  published  in  commemoration  of  the  fiftieth 
anniversary  of  Gustavus  College  by  the  senior  class.    St.  Peter,  1912. 

Broder  lustig;  illustrerad  skamttidning  for  svenskarne  in  Amerika.  Chicago, 
1896-1897.  A  humorous  weekly.  Continued  as  Iduna. 

Brooklyn  stats  svenska  Argus.  En  tidning  egnad  till  emigration,  finans, 
handel,  industri,  kultur  och  konst.  Brooklyn,  1879-1882?  A  politi- 
cal weekly  newspaper. 

Brud-kronan.  Minneapolis,  1888-1889.  Only  two  numbers  of  this  religious 
monthly. 

Budbararen.  Luthersk  missions-  och  traktat-tidning  .  .  .  Marinette,  1904- 
1909.  It  became  Budbararen  standaret  (anti-saloon  monthly),  tidning 
for  andlig  uppbyggelse,  nykterhet  och  upplysning  .  .  .  [C]. 

Budbararen.  [C]    Minneapolis,  1908-1909.   A  monthly. 

Budbararen.   Luthersk  traktat-  och  nykterhetstidning.    Omaha,  1903-1904. 

Budbararen.  Marinette,  1904-1908.  A  temperance  journal  which  merged 
with  Standaret  into  Budbararen — standaret. 

Budbararen — standaret.    [C]    Marinette,  1909-1910.    A  temperance  journal. 

Bulletin  of  the  American  Institute  of  Swedish  Arts,  Literature,  and  Science. 
Minneapolis,  1941-.   Published  irregularly. 

Bulletin  of  the  Swedish  Chamber  of  Commerce  of  New  York.  New  York, 
1907-1915. 

Byrackan.   Worcester,  1885.   A  weekly. 

California.   [C]    Turlock,  1916-.  A  weekly. 

California  journalen.  Los  Angeles,  1896.  A  secular  weekly  which  did  not 
meet  with  any  success. 

153 


California  posten.  Los  Angeles,  1906-1908.  A  weekly  political  newspaper. 
There  was  an  earlier  California  posten  from  March  to  August  of  1893 
published  at  Oakland. 

California-skandinav.    San  Francisco,  1873-1874.   A  weekly  newspaper. 

California  veckoblad.  Los  Angeles,  1910-1947.  This  represents  one  of  the 
most  successful  ventures  among  the  political  weeklies  of  the  West 
Coast.   A  continuation  of  Los  Angeles  tribune. 

Calumet  posten.    Calumet,  Mich.,  1901-1918.    A  weekly  political  newspaper. 

Calumet  posten.  South  Chicago  and  Englewood.  1894.  Changed  name  to 
Svenska  posten. 

Candle.  Annual  of  the  Swedish  Covenant  Hospital  School  for  Nurses.  Chi- 
cago, 1925- .   Four  or  five  annuals  published. 

Challenger,  n.  p.,  1935- ?  This  was  a  publication  of  the  Iowa  Conference 
Luther  League  of  the  Augustana  Synod  and  the  monthly  periodical  was 
undoubtedly  published  in  Rock  Island. 

Chicago  bladet.  Chicago,  1877.  An  official  publication  of  the  Evangelical 
Free  Church.  It  merged  with  Zions-baner  in  1879,  but  it  retained  its 
title. 

Chicago  Figaro.  Chicago,  1892-1896.  Merged  with  Nya  presseii  into  Nya 
pressen  och  Chicago  Figaro  in  1896.  It  was  a  political  weekly  newspaper. 

Chicago  posten.   Chicago,  1897.   A  weekly. 

Children's  friend.  Chicago,  1886-1888.  A  continuation  of  Bam-vannen  of 
New  York  and  Boston.   A  Lutheran  monthly  for  children. 

Children's  Friend.  [C]  Cromwell,  Conn.,  1919-  ?  A  bilingual  monthly  of  the 
Swedish  Christian  Orphanage  of  Cromwell,  Conn. 

Chisago  County  press.  Lindstrom,  Minn.,  1913-1915.  A  weekly  which  was 
probably  a  continuation  of  Medborgaren. 

Christian  Messenger.  Published  monthly  by  the  Kansas  Conference  Luther 
League.  Lindsborg,  1912-1914.  A  continuation  of  Kansas  young  Lu- 
theran which  began  in  1908. 

Christian  recorder.  Portland,  Ore.,  1934-.  A  Mission  Covenant  North  Pa- 
cific Coast  Conference  bi-monthly  periodical. 

Church  paper  for  the  Cleveland  district.  Monthly  publication  for  the  Lu- 
theran churches  of  the  Augustana  Synod  in  Cleveland,  Ashtabula,  Erie, 
Youngstown,  Akron  and  New  Castle,  Rock  Island,  1930-1934.  A  con- 
tinuation of  Kyrkotidning  for  Cleveland  distriktet. 

Church  school  teacher.    [L]    Rock  Island,  1933-. 

Citizen.  Holdrege,  Neb.,  1886-1887.  An  English  weekly  for  Swedish  immi- 
grants and  their  children. 

Citizen.  Moline,  1881-1883.  A  continuation  of  Swedish  citizen,  a  weekly 
newspaper. 

City  missionary.  Official  organ  of  the  Chicago  Lutheran  Inner  Mission 
Society.  Chicago,  1925-.  This  is  a  continuation  of  Stadsmissiondren  pub- 
lished from  1909  to  1924. 

Colorado  herald.  [C]  Denver,  1906-1907.  A  monthly  which  changed  its 
name  to  Baneret  and  became  a  purely  local  church  paper. 

154 


Colorado  posten.  Denver,  1882-1884.  Changed  name  on  March  14,  1883  to 
Nya  Colorado  posten.  It  returned  briefly  to  its  original  name  in  May, 
1884  only  to  be  merged  with  Svenska  hdrolden  into  Vestern,  published 
in  Kansas  at  the  beginning  of  1885.   It  was  a  weekly  newspaper. 

Columbia.   Illustrerad  kristlig  tidning  for  barn.  Chicago,  1886-1914? 

Columbia.  Denver,  1902-1904.  A  weekly  which  changed  its  name  to  Colum- 
bia, tidning  for  svenska  hem.   Absorbed  by  Skandia  in  1905. 

Columbia.  Tidning  for  Columbia  konferensen.  La  Conner,  Wash.,  1900-1908. 
This  was  a  Columbia  Conference  (Augustana)  periodical  which  was 
discontinued  in  1908.  Later  the  conference  published  Sions-bladet  which 
was  absorbed  by  Columbia  Lutheran. 

Columbia-Lutheran.  Sions-bladet.  A  paper  for  the  Swedish  lutheran  peo- 
ple in  the  Pacific  Northwest.  Tacoma,  Wash.,  1927.  A  continuation  of 
Sions-bladet,  a  Columbia  Conference  (Augustana)  periodical. 

Compass.  Seattle,  1921-1947.  A  publication  of  the  Lutheran  Compass  Mis- 
sion of  Seattle. 

Covenant  companion.  Chicago,  1923-1934.  Combined  with  Forbundets 
veckotidning  1934  as  an  English  edition.  This  is  the  official  weekly  organ 
of  the  Covenant  Church.  The  merger  of  1934  led  to  the  birth  of  Cove- 
nant weekly. 

Covenant  quarterly.  Kvartalsskrift  for  missionen.  Issued  quarterly.  Chicago, 
1905-? 

Covenant  quarterly.    Chicago,  1940?-. 

Covenant  weekly.  Chicago,  1935-.  A  continuation  of  Covenant  companion 
and  Forbundets  veckotidning,  of  which  it  was  a  merger.  It  is  an  official 
organ  of  the  Covenant  Church. 

Dakota-posten.  Mitchell,  1889.  A  campaign  paper  distributed  free  of  charge 
promoting  Mitchell  as  S.  Dakota's  capital.  Only  one  number.    (August.) 

Dakotas  svenska  tribun.  Sioux  Falls,  S.  D.,  1900.  Only  one  number  ever 
published. 

Deaconess  banner.  Rock  Island  and  Omaha,  1921-.  A  publication  of  the  Im- 
manuel  Deaconess  Institute  of  Omaha.  It  was  a  continuation  of 
Diakoniss-baneret. 

De  Lang  and  Osterlind's  bulletin.  Chicago,  1874.  A  book  catalogue  from 
May  to  Dec.  1874  announcing  books  for  sale  by  Swedish  authors. 

Delaware  Tercentenary  bulletin,  n.  p.,  1937-1938.  Propaganda  bulletin  for 
the  Delaware  celebration  of  1938. 

Demokraten.  n.  p.,  1890.  Published  in  Oregon  for  campaign  purposes.  Only 
two  copies. 

Denver  posten.  Denver,  1898-1899.  A  weekly. 

Denver  veckoblad.  Denver,  1888-1889.  Became  Svenska  korrespondenten  in 
1889. 

Diakoniss-baneret.  Omaha,  ?-1921.  A  publication  of  the  Deaconess  Institute 
of  Omaha  which  after  1921  became  Deaconess  banner,  an  English  jour- 
nal promoting  the  interests  of  the  Institute. 

155 


Dorkas.  Rock  Island,  and  Omaha,  1893-1919.  An  annual  publication  of  the 
Diakonissanstalten  in  Omaha.  For  one  year  it  was  called  Kalender  and 
later  En  halsning  or  En  julhdlsning  jrdn  .  .  . 

Drott  1914  utgiven  av  logen  Drott,  Vasaorden,  Amerika.  Saljes  till  forman 
for  en  byggnadsfond  for  svenskarnas  fbreningshus  i  Washington,  D.  C. 
Stockholm,  1914.  This  was  an  annual  of  the  Vasa  Order  of  America.  It 
was  to  promote  the  creation  of  a  building  fund  for  the  society  in  Wash- 
ington, D.  C. 

Dufvan.  [C]  Cleveland,  1894-1895;  Jamestown,  1895-1897;  Buffalo,  1897-1902. 

Duluth  posten.  Duluth  and  Superior,  1889-1922.  A  continuation  of  Fdder- 
neslandet  since  June  1888.  Absorbed  by  Svenska  amerikanska  posten  in 
1922. 

Ebenezer.  An  illustrated  annual  of  the  Swedish  Baptist  General  Conference 
of  America.   Chicago,  1942-1944.   Continued  as  Advance. 

Epworth-klockan.    [M]    Chicago,  1902-1917.    A  youth  publication. 
Epworth-stjernan.    [M]    Omaha,  1894- ? 

Europeiska  emigrant  kompaniets  kalender  for  1889.   Chicago,  n.  d. 
Evangelical  beacon.    Official  publication  of  the  Evangelical  Free  Church  of 

America.    Chicago,  1931-. 
Evangelii  budbarare.    [L]    Chicago,  1890- ?  Continuation  of  Evangelii  harold. 
Evangelii  harold.    [L]    Alfred  Center,  N.  Y.,  1885-1890.    Moved  to  Chicago 

where  its  name  was  changed  to  Evangelisk  budbarare. 
Evangelisten.  Galesburg,  1860.  A  religious  monthly. 
Evangelisk  luthersk  barntidning.    Chicago,  1880. 
Evangelisk  luthersk  tidskrift.    Boston,  and  Brooklyn,  1875.    Name  changed 

to  Fridens  harold. 
Evangelisk  luthersk  tidskrift.   Red  Wing,  1877-1878.  Continued  as  Skafjaren. 
Evangeliskt  magazin.    [B]  Council  Bluffs,  1878-1881. 
Evangelisk  tidskrift.    [B]    Chicago,  1878-1884.    Changed  to  Nya  vecko-posten 

after  1884. 
Facklan.    [B]    Chicago,  and  St.  Paul,  1877-1878?.    A  continuation  of  Zions 

vakt.  During  Jan.-July  of  1877  when  Facklan  was  published  in  St.  Paul 

it  had  both  religious  and  political  editions,  and  was  a  weekly. 
Facklan.   Kansas  City  and  Chicago,  1892-1894.    A  weekly  newspaper  which 

was  a  continuation  of  Svenska  veckobladet.    It  began  in  Oct.  1891  and 

moved  from  Kansas  City  a  year  later  to  Chicago. 
Faderneslandet.    Boston,  1874-1875.    A  weekly  newspaper. 
Faderneslandet.     Chicago,    1877-1880.     A   weekly   newspaper   purchased    by 

Svenska  tribunen  in  1880. 
Faderneslandet.    Muskegon,   1901.    A   weekly   which   was   formerly   Frihets 

baneret. 
Familje-vannen.    Lincoln,  1890.    A  journal  for  the  home  and  family. 
The  Fata  Morgana.    New  York.    1881.    A  magazine  of  fantasy  trying  to  pic- 
ture the  world  a  century  after  its  publication.    Only  one  copy. 
Favoriten.    Illustrerad  literar  veckotidning  for  hemmet.    Chicago,  1894. 

15G 


Finska  amerikanaren.  Brooklyn,  1901-1934.  A  weekly  newspaper  for 
Swedish-Finns  in  America.   Continued  as  Norden. 

Finska  missions-posten.   Worcester,  Duluth,  Chicago,  1909-1926. 

Det  flygande  brefvet.  Kristlig  manadslasning  for  Bibellasande  svenskar  och 
sondagsskollarare.  Knoxville,  111.,  1883-1884.  A  journal  published  in  the 
interest  of  Ansgarii  College. 

Flygbladet.    [C]  Ishpeming,  1894-1897.    A  monthly  absorbed  by  Linnea. 

Flygbladet.  [C]  Ishpeming,  1907-1908.  Absorbed  by  Budbdraren  standard 
in  1909. 

Forbundets  ungdomstidning.  [C]  Chicago,  1911-1915.  A  young  people's 
monthly  which  changed  its  name  in  1915  to  Forbundets  veckotidning 
which  became  Covenant  weekly  in  1934. 

Forbundets  veckotidning.  [C]  Chicago,  1915-1934.  A  continuation  of  Mis- 
sionsjbrbundets  ungdomstidning.  In  1934  merged  with  Covenant  com- 
panion into  Covenant  weekly. 

Forbundsfolket.    [L]    Chicago,  1895.   A  paper  devoted  to  the  Jewish  mission. 

Fbreningsvannen.  Warren,  1901.  No  file  is  found  of  this  journal  published 
by  the  Scandinavian  Union  Association.    It  continued  as  Monitoren. 

Foreningen  vid  Augustana  College.  Rock  Island,  1887-1889.  Also  called 
Lutheran  quarterly  review. 

F6rgat-mig-ej.    [L]    Red  Wing,  1897-1898.    A  religious  monthly. 

F6rgat-mig-ej.  Arskalender  utgifven  af  Bethany  College,  Lindsborg.  Linds- 
borg  and  Rock  Island,  1902. 

Forposten.    Ishpeming,  1887-1888.    A  weekly. 

Forposten.  Marinette,  1892-1909.  A  weekly  which  was  absorbed  by  Mari- 
nette tribunen. 

Forsamlingen  och  hemmet.    [B]    Chicago,  1899-1938. 

Forsamlingsvannen.  Evangelisk-luthersk  illustrerad  tidning  for  Pittsburgh- 
distriktet.    Rock  Island,  1905-1913. 

Forsta  Maj.  New  York,  1916-1922.  An  annual  published  by  the  Scandina- 
vian Socialist  Labor  Society  until  1922,  when  Arbetaren  published  a 
special  first  of  May  number. 

Forsvarsvannen.   Brooklyn,  1896.   A  weekly. 

For  svenska  hem.  Minneapolis  and  St.  Paul,  1904-1905.  A  monthly. 

Folket.  New  York,  1920-1922.  A  weekly  socialist  paper  which  was  moved 
to  Chicago  and  absorbed  by  Facklan. 

Folkets  nyheter.  Rockford,  1913-1914.   A  weekly. 

Folkets  rost.  Jamestown,  1875-1884.  A  weekly  newspaper  which  became 
Wart  nya  hem  in  1884. 

Folkets  rost.  Providence,  1896.  A  weekly  newspaper,  which  started  in  1895 
and  seems  to  have  lived  only  for  a  couple  of  years. 

Folkets  tidning.  Omaha,  1874-1876.  Changed  name  in  1876  to  Nya  jolkets 
tidning.    It  was  a  continuation  of  Kansas  monitoren. 

Folkets  van.    [C]    East  Orange,  1920-1928.    A  monthly. 

Folkets  van.  Stromsburg,  1885-1887.  A  weekly  newspaper  which  was  ab- 
sorbed by  Svenska  amerikanska  posten,  Sept.  20,  1887. 

157 


Folkvannen.  [LJ  Moorhead  and  Fargo,  1891-1892.  This  monthly  publica- 
tion aimed  to  promote  the  interests  of  Hope  Academy. 

Forget-me-not.  The  annual  of  Bethany  College.  Salina,  1902.  Copies  in 
both  Swedish  and  English. 

Forskaren.    Minneapolis,   1894-1898,    1901-1904.    Began    in   Rockford,    Sept. 

1893.    An  "independent  newspaper"  with  strong  socialistic  sympathies. 

Perhaps  it  could  be  called  "a  religious  philosophical  periodical." 
Fosterlandet.   Chicago,  1891-1907.   A  continuation  of  Pedagogen  and  Framat; 

changed  name  to  Fylgia  in  1907.   It  was  a  weekly  newspaper  with  strong 

Augustana  Synod  sympathies. 
Fosterlandet.    Worcester  and  Boston,  1889-1890.    A  weekly  newspaper. 
Framtiden.  Rockford,  1892-1894.  Very  incomplete  files  of  this  weekly  are  to 

be  found. 

Framat.    Brooklyn  and  Providence,  1892-1895.    A  weekly  newspaper  which 

changed  its  name  to  Osterns  harold  in  1896. 
Framat.  [B]  Cleveland,  1895-1896.  A  monthly. 
Framat.   Lindsborg,  Kansas  City  and  Chicago,  1887-1891.    Changed  name  to 

Fosterlandet.    It  was  a  continuation  of  Pedagogen,  and  was  a  weekly 

newspaper  with  strong  ties  to  the  Augustana  Synod. 

Freja.   New  York,  1898.  A  magazine  for  women. 

Freja.  St.  Paul,  1893-1894.  An  illustrated  monthly  family  journal. 

Fridens  harold.  Brooklyn,  1876.  A  continuation  of  Evangelisk  luthersk  tid- 
skrift. 

Frids-budet.    [C]    Chicago,  1884-1886. 

Fridsbudet.  Minneapolis,  1888-1944?  A  monthly  religious  periodical  pub- 
lished by  the  Augustana  Evangelical  Lutheran  Church  of  Minneapolis. 
It  represents  the  oldest  continuous  local  church  paper. 

Frihet.  Ironwood,  1901-1904.  A  weekly  which  was  absorbed  by  Svenska 
amerika?iska  tribunen  in  1904. 

Frihet  och  frid.  Tidskrift  for  bibelstudium,  uppbyggelse,  kristlig  tro,  krist- 
ligt  lif  och  kristlig  verksamhet.    [FC]    Chicago,  1889-1891. 

Frihet  och  fangenskap.    Chicago,  1879.    A  monthly  temperance  journal. 

Frihets-baneret.  Muskegon,  1893-1898.  A  successor  of  Monitor  of  Muske- 
gon.   Name  changed  to  Fademeslandet  in  1900. 

Frihetsklockan.  Chicago,  1892-1898.  This  temperance  monthly  died  in  1898 
but  was  revived  in  1902  as  Vcigvisaren  which  in  turn  became  Nykterhets- 
budbdraren  in  January  of  1905.  The  last  periodical  became  the  official 
organ  of  the  District  Lodge  No.  14  of  the  Grand  Lodge  of  the  I.  O.  G.  T. 

Frihetsvannen.  [B]  Galesburg,  1859-1861.  Published  two  times  a  month 
during  1859  and  every  week  from  1860  to  1861. 

Frisk  luft.   New  York,  1891.   An  illustrated  humorous  weekly. 

Friskytten.  Minneapolis,  1891-1894.  A  humorous  journal  absorbed  by 
Humoristen. 

Fylgia.  Chicago,  1907-1909.  This  is  a  continuation  of  Fosterlandet  with  less 
ambitious  program.  It  aimed  to  be  a  family  journal  and  not  a  weekly 
newspaper.   It  was  later  absorbed  by  Svenska  tribunen  nyheter. 

158 


Fyrbaken.    [B]    Minneapolis,  1893-1903.    A  monthly. 

Fyrbaken.  Manadsblad  for  forsamlingarna  inom  New  Jersey-distriktet. 
Rock  Island,  1907-1908.  An  Augustana  Synod  district  journal  within 
the  New  York  Conference. 

Fyrtornet.  I.  O.  G.  T.  tidning  for  Skandinaviska  Goodtemplare  i  Amerika. 
New  York,  1899-1903;  Boston,  1903-1905;  New  York,  1905-1910.  A  Scan- 
dinavian temperance  periodical. 

Galva  Republican.    Galva,  1869.    From  May  to  June  of  1869  this  weekly 

newspaper  had  a  Swedish  column. 
Galesburgs  veckoblad.    Galesburg,  1868. 
Gamla    nordstjernan.     New    York,    1874.     A    weekly    newspaper.     Became 

Norden  after  less  than  two  months. 

Gittit.  [C]  Minneapolis,  1892-1908.  A  periodical  devoted  to  music  and  of 
special  interest  to  choir  directors  and  singers. 

God  jul.  Illustrerad  jultidning  for  svenskarna  i  Amerika.  Rock  Island,  1916. 
A  Christmas  annual. 

Good-templaren.  Officiellt  organ  for  Californien  I.  S.  L.  Chicago.  Date  un- 
known. An  official  temperance  periodical. 

Golden  Northwest.  St.  Paul,  1880-1881.  Distributed  free  of  charge  by  the 
Northern  Pacific  R.  R. 

Gnistan.  Minneapolis,  1891-1892.  A  Socialist-Unitarian  periodical.  It  was 
later  revived,  and  published  in  Chicago  in  1896. 

Guldax.  Axtell,  Neb.,  1913-.  Official  publication  of  the  Bethphage  Mission 
organization.    Swedish-English  and  Swedish  edition. 

Gus  Brobergs  kalender  och  svenska  almanackan.   Chicago,  1903,  1911. 

Gustavania.  St.  Peter,  1891-1893.  A  continuation  of  Heimdal.  A  Gustavus 
Adolphus  College  student  periodical  which  continued  as  Gustavus  Adol- 
phus  journal  in  Sept.  1893,  as  College  Breezes  in  Sept.  1902,  and  Gus- 
tavian  weekly  after  1913. 

Gustavus  Adolphus  College.   Jubilee  annual.   St.  Peter,  1912. 

Halsovannen.    [A]     Chicago,  1888-1890.    A  monthly. 

Harmoni.   Seattle.    A  music  journal. 

Harmonia.  Chicago.   A  music  journal. 

Hemfrid.    Chicago,   1889-1893.   A  temperance  journal. 

Hemlandet,  det  gamla  och  det  nya.  Galesburg  and  Chicago,  1855-1914.  A 
few  numbers  are  also  found  of  a  European  edition,  1874-1877.  Bought 
by  Svenska  amerikanaren  in  1914,  and  for  a  short  time  this  paper  was 
called  Svenska  amerikanaren  och  Hemlandet  only  to  drop  the  name 
of  Hemlandet.  This  paper  represented  one  of  the  most  successful 
weekly  newspapers.  Hemlandet  was  very  friendly  toward  the  Augus- 
tana Synod  with  which  it  had  the  closest  contacts. 

Hemmet,  det  kyrkliga  hemmet.  Manadsblad  for  beframjande  af  kristlig 
bildning,  endragt  och  frid.    [L]  Chicago,  1884-1885. 

Hemmet.  Minneapolis,  1889-1891.  An  illustrated  journal  for  women.  Only 
a  few  numbers  of  it  are  to  be  found. 

159 


Hemmet.  Minneapolis,  1925-1927.  A  literary  monthly  published  by  the 
owners  of  Svenska  amerikanska  posten. 

Hemmets  van.    [B]    Chicago,  1903-1905.    A  monthly  literary  journal. 

Hem-missionaren.  Chicago,  1888.  This  is  an  Augustana  Lutheran  Home 
Missionary  publication.  It  was  only  published  in  Swedish  for  one  year 
after  which  it  was  written  in  English. 

Hem-missionaren.    [C]    Omaha,  1892-1893.    A  monthly. 

Hem  Vannen.  Rock  Island,  1887-1889.  A  family  paper  which  absorbed  Vart 
land  och  folk  in  1888  and  was  later  absorbed  by  Augustana  in  1889.  It 
was  formerly  Ungdoms  vannen. 

Hemat.  Altona,  1893-1894.  A  Galesburg  District  of  the  Illinois  Conference 
(Augustana  Synod)  monthly  periodical. 

Hemat.  Luthersk  traktat-tidning.  For  de  svenska  evangeliska  lutherska 
forsamlingarna   i  California.    San   Francisco,   1901-1905. 

Hemat  kalender.    Utgifven  af  Otto  Hbgfeldt.    Chicago,  1895-1916. 

Herderosten.  A  regular  monthly  paper  published  by  the  Scandinavian 
Evangelic  Lutheran  Pacific  Conference.  San  Francisco  and  Oakland, 
1888-1899. 

Hjertbergs  kvartalskrift.    New  York,  1896. 

Holdrege  citizen.  Holdrege,  Neb.,  1887-1888-1889.  A  weekly  which  was  a 
continuation  of  Citizen.  In  1887  in  became  Swedish  American  citizen  and 
then  changed  back  to  Holdrege  citizen  in  1888. 

Home  missionary.  Chicago,  1889.  An  English  tract  of  the  Augustana  Synod 
on  home  missions.  It  was  a  continuation  of  Hem  missiondren  which 
came  out  in  1888. 

Home  missionary.  Published  monthly  by  the  Board  of  English  Home  Mis- 
sions ...  in  North  America.   Lebanon  and  Philadelphia,  1913-1918. 

Humoristen.  Chicago,  1891-1903.  A  monthly  until  it  changed  its  name  to 
Svenska  nyheter. 

Hus-biblioteket.    Minneapolis,  1878.    A  literary  magazine. 

Hvita  bandet.   Official  organ  of  the  W.  C.  T.  U.   Worcester,  1910-1916. 

Idealisten.    Chicago,  1905-1906.    A  literary  monthly. 

Iduna.  Illustrerad  veckotidning.  Chicago,  1879-1899.  An  illustrated  weekly 
periodical.  A  continuation  of  Broder  htstig.  It  was  absorbed  by  Sven- 
ska amerikanaren. 

Illinois  District  Lutheran.  Central  Illinois  District  Lutheran.  Published  by 
the  Central  Illinois  District  of  the  Evangelical  Lutheran  Synod  of  Mis- 
souri, Ohio,  and  other  states.    Rock  Island,  1926-1942. 

Illinois  Swede.  Galva,  1869-1870.  A  political  weekly  which  was  moved  to 
Chicago  and  then  called  Nya  verlden  in  1870. 

Illustrerad  kalender.    [B]     Chicago,  1904-1909. 

Illustreradt  familjeblad.  Decorah,  1891. 

Indiana  posten.  South  Bend,  1899-1900.  A  weekly  which  may  have  con- 
tinued as  Svensk- amerikanska  jonrnalen,  a  paper  which  failed  after 
only  a  few  months  in  1900. 

160 


Iowa  and  Nebraska  farmer.  Lincoln,  1876.  An  advertisement  of  the  Burling- 
ton and  Missouri  R.  R.  land  and  an  invitation  to  the  immigrants  to  pur- 
chase its  land.   Only  one  number. 

Iowa  missionstidning.  Red  Oak,  1908-1915.  A  monthly  publication  of  the 
Mission  Covenant  Ministerial  Association  of  the  Iowa  Conference.  It 
consolidated  with  Forbundets  veckotidning  which  became  "a  national 
weekly"  of  the  Covenant  Church. 

Iowa  posten.  Des  Moines,  1903-1919.  A  weekly  newspaper.  Absorbed  by 
Svenska  tribunen. 

"I  Zenithen."    Julnummer.    [Duluth],  1896. 

Journal  for  Svithiods  Orden.  Blue  Island,  1901-1912.  It  became  Svithiod 
journalen  shortly  after  the  periodical  had  been  moved  to  Mount  Morris, 
111.,  where  it  has  continued  until  the  present  time. 

Julbudkaflen.  n.  p.,  1907.  A  Christmas  publication  advertising  Scandinavian- 
American  Line. 

Julbrasan.  Chicago,  1943-1945  and  1950.  A  Swedish  Christmas  publication  of 
the  Swedish  Journalist  Association  from  1943-1945,  revived  in  1950. 

Jule-grisen.   Jamestown,  1884.    Published  by  Wart  nya  hem. 

Julen.    Illustrerad  jul-tidning  pa  vers  och  prosa.    New  York,   [1894]. 

Julgranen.    Chicago,  1906. 

Julgubben.   Chicago,  1878.   A  Christmas  annual. 

Jul-gubben.  Annons-och  skamttidning  for  julen  1887.  [Chicago],  1887.  A 
Christmas  annual. 

Julgafvan.   Kristlig  kalender.    [B]    New  York,  1893. 

Jul-kvallen.  Lynn,  Mass.,  1904.  A  Christmas  annual  advertising  various 
local  stores. 

Julkarfven.    Illustrerad  julkalender.    Chicago,  [1907]. 

Julnisse.  Illustrerad  humoristisk  tidning.  Chicago,  1893-1894.  A  humorous 
Christmas  annual. 

Jul-  och  nyarsgubben.    Chicago,  1878.    A  Christmas  calendar. 

Julrunan.  Illustrerad  tidning  utgifven  af  Svenska  vitterhetssallskapet  vid 
Augustana  College  och  Teologiska  Seminarium,  Rock  Island,  111.  Rock 
Island,  1905,  1911-1912.   A  Christmas  annual. 

Julstjarnan.  Svensk  jultidning.  New  York,  1909-1923.  A  Christmas  calendar. 

Jul-tomten.    Chicago,  Dec.  1887.   A  Christmas  annual. 

Jultomten.   Seattle,  1898,  (1906?),  (1907?),  1909,  1911.   A  Christmas  annual. 

Jultidning.  Svensk  illustrerad  jul-tidning.  New  York,  1882.  Swedish  il- 
lustrated Christmas  annual. 

Jupiter  (Folkets  weckotidning) .  Manistee  and  Ludington,  Mich.,  1891-1893. 
A  temperance  periodical. 

Justitia.    Chicago,  1871.    A  bi-weekly. 

Kansas  City  tribunen.  Kansas  City,  1901-1914.  Formerly  Svenska  pressen. 
A  weekly  newspaper. 

Kansas  Conference  Lutheran.  Lindsborg,  1931-.  This  is  a  continuation  of 
Lindsborgs-posten. 

161 


Kansas  Epworth  forbunds  konvent  harold.    [M]  n.  p.,  1910-1914? 

Kansas  missions-tidning.    [C]    Lindsborg,  1902-1923. 

Kansas  monitoren.  Topeka,  1874.  A  weekly  which  was  soon  discontinued. 
Its  subscribers  received  instead  Folkets  tidning,  which  was  started  by 
the  same  person. 

Kansas  Pacific  homestead.   Salina,  1879.   Distributed  free  by  Kansas  Pacific 

R.  R. 
Kansas  posten.   Lindsborg,  1882-1883.   This  weekly  was  owned  by  Hemlan- 

det  and  was  absorbed  by  it. 
Kansas  stats  tidning.    Lindsborg,  1879-1880. 
Kansas  young  Lutheran.    Organ  of  the  Kansas  Conference  Luther  League. 

Lindsborg,  1908-1911.    Both  Swedish   and   English    text  found   in   this 

religious  monthly  which  continued  as  Christian  messenger. 

Kina-missionaren.  Luthersk  tidskrift.  St.  Paul,  1908-1921.  A  continuation 
of  Luthersk  tidskrift  for  hedamission  och  diakoni. 

Kloverbladet.    Iron  Mountain,   1913-1914.    A  monthly. 

Kompassen.    Chicago,  1887.    A  monthly  temperance  journal. 

Korrespondenten.  Salt  Lake  City,  1879-1894.  A  weekly  which  changed 
name  in  1894  to  Utah  korrespondenten. 

Korbaneret.  Kristlig  kalender.  Chicago,  Moline,  and  Rock  Island,  1880- 
1949.  An  Augustana  Synod  annual  in  Swedish  which  was  discontinued. 
Instead  there  has  been  published  since  1950  an  Augustana  annual. 
Korsbaneret  is  one  of  the  most  important  references  on  the  history  of 
the  Augustana  Synod, 

Kring  krubban.    [C]    Chicago,  1908-1929.    A  Sunday  School  annual. 

Kurre.  Chicago,  1884-1887.  A  weekly  which  changed  its  name  to  Svenska 
kuriren  in  Jan.  1888. 

Kurre-kalender,  med  textbidrag  pa  vers  och  prosa.  Chicago,  1899-1901,  1903. 
This  calendar  was  distributed  among  subscribers  of  Svenska  kuriren  as 
a  subscription  gift  for  many  years  after  1900. 

Kvartalsskrift  for  missionen.  [C]  Minneapolis,  1905.  A  continuation  of 
Missionaren. 

Kvinnan  och  hemmet.  Cedar  Rapids,  1893-1918.  A  monthly  journal  for  the 
Swedish  women  in  America.  Its  name  was  sometimes  Qvinnan  och 
hemmet. 

Kyrka  och  skola.  Fergus  Falls,  1917-1918.  This  publication  sought  to  pro- 
mote an  interest  in  Northwestern  College  of  Fergus  Falls  and  was  a 
continuation  of  Northwestern  College  quarterly  which  had  begun  as 
early  as  in  January,  1905. 

Det  kyrkliga  hemmet.  Chicago,  1884.  Episcopal  church  paper  essentially 
for  the  Ansgarii  Church  of  Chicago. 

Kyrkobladet.  Tidning  for  Warren-distriktet.  [L]  Rock  Island,  and  War- 
ren, 1905-1911. 

Kyrkoharolden.  Svenska  lutherska  South  St.  Paul  pastoratets  tidning.  St. 
Paul,  1907-1918.   An  Augustana  district  publication. 

162 


Kyrkotidning  for  Cleveland-distriktet.  [L]  Rock  Island,  1904-1930.  A 
monthly  church  paper  of  the  district  which  was  continued  as  Cleveland 
church  paper  for  the  Cleveland  district. 

Kyrkotidning  for  Jamestowns-distriktet  af  Svenska  lutherska  New  York- 
konferensen.   Rock  Island,  1907-1909.   A  church  district  paper. 

Kyrkovannen.  Luthersk  manadstidning  for  andlig  uppbyggelse.  South 
Omaha,  1894. 

Lasning  vid  husliga  harden.  Chicago,  1880.  A  journal  of  fiction.  A  sub- 
scription gift  of  Faderneslandet  of  Chicago. 

Land  och  folk.  Chicago,  1898-1900.  This  was  an  illustrated  family  journal, 
which  was  absorbed  by  Fosterlandet. 

Landkanning.  New  York,  1915-1927.  A  publication  of  the  Scandinavian 
Socialist  Labor  Party  in  America. 

Landkanning.  New  York,  1913-1928.  A  Christmas  publication  of  the  Scan- 
dinavian Socialist  Labor  Society. 

Ledstjarnan.  Organ  for  svensk-finska  nykterhetsforbundet  af  Amerika. 
Chicago,  1905-1925. 

Ledstjernan.  [C]  Seattle,  1906-1908.  A  monthly  periodical  published  in  the 
interest  of  the  North  Pacific  Coast  Mission  Conference. 

Den  lilla  missionaren.    Chicago,  1885-1913.    A  children's  missionary  paper. 

Den  lilla  saningsmannen.  Svensk  luthersk  traktattidning.  Des  Moines,  1889. 
A  religious  monthly  of  local  nature. 

Den  lille  barnvannen.  Omaha,  1898-1913.  An  annual  of  four  pages.  A  pub- 
lication of  the  Deaconess  Institute  of  Omaha. 

Lille  budbararen.  Denver,  1907.  A  religious  periodical  of  the  Swedish 
Evangelical  Free  Mission  of  Colorado. 

Den  lille  missionaren.  Illustrerad  missionstidning  for  de  unga.  Rock  Island, 
1893.   Illustrated  mission  paper  for  children. 

Lincoln  svenska  tribun.  Lincoln,  1901-1902.  A  weekly  which  was  moved  to 
Omaha  and  took  the  name  of  Vestems  svenska  tribun. 

Lindsborg  news.  Lindsborg,  1881-1912.  This  weekly  merged  with  the  Linds- 
borg  record  into  the  Lindsborg  news  and  record  in  1912. 

Lindsborg  news  and  record.   Lindsborg,  1912-1918. 

Lindsborgs-posten.  Lindsborg,  1889,  1898-1930.  A  weekly  newspaper.  It 
was  published  irregularly  prior  to  1898  as  a  monthly.  Has  for  many 
years  been  published  in  English. 

Lindsborg  record.  Lindsborg,  1897-1912.  In  1912  this  weekly  merged  with 
Lindsborg  news  into  the  Lindsborg  news  and  record. 

Linnea.  Poetiskt  album  af  svensk-amerikanska  publicister  i  Chicago.  Chi- 
cago, 1887.  Poetic  album  published  by  Swedish-American  journalists  of 
Chicago. 

Linnea.  Tidskrift  for  hemmet  och  ungdomen.  [C]  Galesburg,  and  Minne- 
apolis, 1897-1905.  A  monthly  which  was  absorbed  by  Minneapolis  vecko- 
blad.  Its  cover  contained  such  names  as  Arenan,  Linnea  och  dufvan. 

Linnea.  Svensk -amerikansk  jultidning.  Chicago,  1891.  A  Linne  Hospital 
of  Chicago  Christmas  publication. 

163 


Linnean.  A  monthly  magazine  of  high  ideals.  [C]  Minneapolis,  1905-1906. 
Seems  to  have  been  a  continuation  of  Linnea,  tidskrijt  for  hemmet  och 
ungdomen. 

Little  folks.    [L]    Rock  Island,  1928-.    A  Sunday  School  paper. 

Ljufva  stunder.  Kristligt  manadsmagasin  for  hem  och  hard.  [L?]  Bur- 
lington, la.,  1897-1898. 

Ljus.  Officiellt  organ  for  California  skandinaviska  districtlogc.  San  Fran- 
cisco, n.  d.   A  temperance  journal. 

Lordags-magasinet.  Chicago.  1895.  A  magazine  of  fiction.  Absorbed  by 
Figaro. 

Lordags-nisse.  Chicago,  1870.  A  humorous  journal  published  from  June  to 
August  of  1870. 

Los  Angeles  tribun.  Los  Angeles,  1908-1909.  It  was  a  continuation  of  Cali- 
fornia posten.   A  weekly  newspaper.   Became  California  veckoblad. 

Lutheran  companion.  Rock  Island,  1911 -.  The  official  organ  of  the  Au- 
gustana  Synod.  It  represents  a  continuation  of  Young  Lutheran  com- 
panion and  of  Augustana  journal.  In  1949  it  merged  with  Augustana 
into  Augustona  Lutheran  and  again  became  Lutheran  Companion  in 
1952. 

Lutheran  crusader.  Chicago,  1903-1904.  An  independent  Lutheran  journal 
for  young  people. 

Lutheran  messenger.  Rock  Island,  1934.  A  religious  journal  that  repre- 
sented a  continuation  of  Ungdomens  sdndebud. 

Lutheran  monitor.  Sioux  City,  1939-1943.  A  weekly  newspaper  which  was 
a  continuation  of  Svenska  monitoren. 

Lutheran  review.  Modesto,  1931-1943?  A  monthly  organ  of  the  California 
Conference  of  the  Augustana  Synod. 

Luther,  kalender.  Jubel-aret  1883.  Augustana  Tract  Society,  n.  p.,  1883. 
A  Christmas  calendar. 

Luthersk  budbarare.  Annonsblad  for  svenska  evangelisk  lutherska  New 
England  konferensen  .  .  .  n.  p.,  n.  d. 

Luthersk  kyrkotidning.  Red  Wing,  Minn.,  1872-1873.  A  religious  periodical 
absorbed  by  Augustana  after  December  of  1873. 

Luthersk  qvartalsskrift  for  behandling  af  teologiska  .  .  .  fragor.  Rock  Is- 
land, 1887-1889. 

Lyceum  annual.  Rock  Island,  1892-1894.  An  Augustana  College  publication 
and  a  continuation  of  Balder.  A  literary  annual.  Forerunner  of  Augus- 
tana Observer,  a  student  publication. 

Lyckans  stjerna.    Svensk  ungdomstidning.   Minneapolis,  1891. 

Macedoniska  ropet.    Utgifven  i  missionens  intresse.    Minneapolis,  1910-1913. 

Manskligheten.  Minneapolis,  1897-1903.  Came  out  for  a  short  time  in  1894 
and  then  again  in  1897.  A  Universalist  Henry  George  reform  paper.  It 
was  moved  to  Chicago  in  1903. 

Manhem.    Gustavus  Adolphus  annual.    1904.    Red  Wing.  Minn.,  1904. 

Manistique  harold.    Manistique,  Mich  ,  1891-1909.    A  weekly  newspaper. 

Manistiques  weckoblad.    Manistique.  Mich..  1889.    A  weekly  newspaper. 

164 


Marinette  tribunen.  Marinette,  Wis.,  1896-1917.  Absorbed  Forposten  in  1909. 
Marinette  tribunen  was  absorbed  by  Medborgaren  in  1917. 

Marshall  County  leader.  Stephen,  Minn.,  1884.  This  paper  started  in  1883. 
It  contained  for  a  time  during  1884  two  columns  written  in  the  Scandi- 
navian languages. 

Medborgaren.  Escanaba,  1895-1920.  Medborgaren  absorbed  Marinette  tri- 
bunen Oct.  1,  1917. 

Medborgaren.  Lindstrom,  Minn.,  1901-1905.  A  weekly  newspaper  which 
was  perhaps  absorbed  by  the  Chisago  County  press. 

Medborgaren.  Politisk  tidning  for  svenskarne  bland  Klippebergen.  Salt 
Lake  City,  1910. 

Mellersta  osterns  missionstidning.  Jamestown,  1911-.  A  monthly  periodical 
of  the  Covenant  Conference  of  the  Middle  East.  It  was  a  continuation 
of  a  local  church  paper  called  Fdrsamlingsbladet. 

Michigan  journalen.  Svenska  Michigan  journalen.  Grand  Rapids,  1897- 
1898.   A  weekly. 

Michigan  posten.    Grand  Rapids,  1896-1900. 

Michigan  posten.  Muskegon,  1890-1891.  A  weekly  which  changed  name  to 
Monitor. 

Michigan  veckoblad.    Iron  Mountain,  1903-1910. 

Michigan  stats  tidning.    Muskegon,  1906-1910? 

Midsommar-bladet.   Seattle,  1910. 

Midvinterboken.    [B]    An  annual.    Chicago,  1920-1922. 

Midvintersol.    Illustrerad  kalender  for  1895.    [B]    Worcester,  1894. 

Minneapolis  veckoblad.  [C]  Minneapolis,  1887-1906.  A  continuation  of 
Svenska  kristna  harolden;  in  1906  its  names  was  changed  to  Veckobladet. 

Minnesota  Conference  charities.  [L]  Minneapolis,  1941-.  A  quarterly  pub- 
lication of  the  Minnesota  Conference  Board  of  Christian  Charities. 

Minnesota  Lutheran.  St.  Paul  and  Minneapolis,  1939-1940.  A  continuation 
of  Minnesota  stats -tidning. 

Minnesota  posten.  Red  Wing,  1857-1858.   A  weekly  absorbed  by  Hemlandert. 

Minnesota  posten.  St.  Paul  and  Minneapolis,  1891-1894.  A  weekly  of  which 
files  are  very  incomplete.  Absorbed  by  Folkets  nyheter. 

Minnesota  stats  tidning.  [L]  St.  Paul  and  Minneapolis,  1895-1939.  Became 
Minnesota  Lutheran  in  1939  and  was  discontinued  in  1940.  The  above 
paper  was  a  weekly  newspaper,  a  continuation  of  Skaffaren  och  Min- 
nesota stats  tidning. 

Minnesota  stats  tidning.  [L]  St.  Paul  and  Minneapolis,  1895-1939.  Became 
weekly.  It  merged  with  Skaffaren  into  Skaffaren  och  Minnesota  stats 
tidning. 

Minnesota  svenska  tribun.  Duluth,  1893-1895.  A  weekly  newspaper  which 
was  a  continuation  of  Svenska  fria  pressen. 

Minnesota  tidning.  St.  Paul,  1870.  A  weekly  newspaper  which  was  a  con- 
tinuation of  Svenska  Minnesota  bladet.  Changed  its  name  shortly  again 
to  Svenska  monitoren. 

Mission  friend.    [C]  Chicago,  1931-.    A  Sunday  School  paper 

165 


Mission  tidings.  Rock  Island,  1906-.  The  official  organ  of  the  Women's  Mis- 
sionary Society,  Augustana  Synod. 

Missions-baneret.  Minneapolis,  1904-1909?  A  Congregationalist  religious 
periodical. 

Missionsbladet.  [C]  Grand  Rapids,  1895-1897.  A  district  monthly  which 
was  absorbed  by  Linnea. 

Missionsbladet.  New  York,  1902-1906.  A  religious  periodical  of  the  New 
York  and  New  Jersey  Ministerial  Association  of  the  Covenant  church. 

Missionsforbundets  ungdomstidning.  Chicago,  1911-1915.  Semi-monthly 
second  official  organ  of  the  Covenant  church.  Became  Covenant  weekly 
in  1915. 

Mission  post.    [B]   Chicago,  1935- ?    A  continuation  of  Missions -posten. 

Missions-posten.    [B]    Chicago,  1929-1934. 

Missions-posten.  Tidskrift  for  inre  och  yttre  mission.  Minneapolis,  1901- 
19C9.  An  organ  of  Free  Missions  (Fria  missionsvannerna) .  It  was  ab- 
sorbed by  Missionstidningen. 

Missions-posten.    [C]    Minneapolis,  1927-1944. 

Missions -tidning.  Organ  for  kvinnornas  hem-  och  hednamissionsforening 
inom  Augustana  synoden.  Chicago,  and  Lindsborg,  Kansas.  1906-1923. 
Continued  as  Mission  tidings. 

Missionstidningen.  Minneapolis,  1911-1924.  The  official  organ  of  the  Free 
Church  Conferences  of  Minnesota,  Wisconsin,  Iowa,  and  Nebraska.  It 
was  a  bi-weekly  which  had  absorbed  Missions-posten  and  in  a  sense 
represents  a  continuation  of  it. 

Missions  vannen.  Chicago,  1874-.  Also  spelled  Missions-wdnnen.  It  was 
published  by  the  Swedish  Evangelical  Lutheran  Missions  Synod  during 
its  first  years. 

Missionaren.    Providence,  1888-1889. 

Missionaren.   Battle  Creek,  1890-1891.   An  Adventist  religious  periodical. 

Missionaren.  Chicago,  1869-1873.  An  Augustana  periodical  which  merged 
with  R'dtta  hemlandet  och  Augustana  into  Augustana  luthersk  kyrko- 
tidning  in  1874. 

Missionaren.  [C]  Chicago,  1894-1905.  Monthly  until  1897  when  it  was  is- 
sued two  times  a  month.  Sometimes  the  place  of  publication  given  as 
North  Park. 

Missionaren.  Moline,  1876-1878.  An  Augustana  Lutheran  mission  paper 
which  from  1876-1878  was  published  together  with  Augustana.  In  1879 
the  two  merged  into  one  paper  called  Augustana  och  missionaren. 

Missionaren.  Manadsblad  for  Worcester  distriktet  af  Evangeliskt  lutherska 
New  York  konferensen.    Rock  Island,  and  Worcester,  1906-1913. 

Missionaren.  Svensk  luthersk  missionstidning.  Moline,  1876-1878.  A 
monthly  periodical  promoting  an  interest  in  missions. 

Missionaren.  Tidskrift  for  inre  och  yttre  mission.  Chicago,  1869-1873.  A  re- 
ligious periodical  absorbed  by  Augustana. 

Mississippi  posten.   Burlington,  la.,  1898. 

166 


Moline  tribun.  Moline,  1910-1915.  A  weekly  newspaper  which  was  a  con- 
tinuation of  Northern  light. 

Monitor.  Jamestown,  1920-.  An  official  monthly  publication  of  the  Scandi- 
navian Fraternity  of  America. 

Monitor.   Iron  Mountain,  1900-1908.    A  weekly  newspaper. 

Monitor.    [C]    Muskegon,  1892-1893.   A  monthly. 

Monitor.  Chicago,  1926-1932.  A  political  campaign  paper  of  the  John  Erics- 
son Republican  League  issued  during  campaigns. 

Monitoren.    Chicago,  1878.    A  Greenback  party  organ. 

Monitoren.   New  York,  1878,  1881.   A  temperance  journal. 

Morgon  stjernan.  [L?]  Chicago,  1877.  A  journal  for  children  issued  two 
times  a  month. 

Morgonstjernan.  The  morning  star  ...  En  kristlig  tidskrift  tillegnad  det 
svenska  folket  i  Amerika.  [L?]    Gowrie,  la.,  1911-1917. 

Musiktidning  for  Amerikas  svenskar.  Minneapolis,  1906-1909,  1914-1924. 
Chicago  and  New  York,  1924-.  Does  not  seem  to  have  been  published 
from  1909-1914. 

My  church.  An  illustrated  Lutheran  manual,  pertaining  principally  to  the 
history,  work  and  spirit  of  the  Augustana  Synod.  Rock  Island,  1915- 
1947.  An  important  Augustana  Synod  annual.  It  was  merged  with  the 
Almanac  into  Augustana  annual  in  1948. 

Myggan.  Flygblad  for  16 je  och  satir.  Chicago,  May  18,  1872.  A  humorous 
journal  published  by  Nya  verlden. 

Nad  och  sanning.  Chicago,  1877-1886.  An  Augustana  religious  periodical 
for  devotional  purposes  1877-1882;  it  started  again  in  Oct.  1884  and  con- 
tinued until  1886.  In  Sept.  1886  it  became  Vart  land  och  jolk,  which  was 
continued  until  1888.  It  then  was  absorbed  by  Hemvdnnen  and  pub- 
lished in  Rock  Island. 

Nar  och  fjarran.    Illustrerad  litteraturtidskrift.    Chicago,  1874-1877. 

National  Good  Templar.  Minneapolis,  1900- ?  A  monthly  of  the  Interna- 
tional Order  of  Good  Templars  which  has  been  dominated  by  Scandina- 
vians during  the  last  fifty  years. 

National  tidning.    Chicago,  1901. 

Nebraska  missionsblad.  [C]  Wausa,  Neb.,  1901-1903.  A  conference  publi- 
cation, which  was  absorbed  in  1903  by  Svenska  pressen  in  Omaha. 

Nebraskas  svenska  journal.    S'tromsburg,  1887. 

New  England  Lutheran.  West  Haven,  Conn.,  1948- .  An  organ  of  the  New 
England  Conference  of  the  Augustana  Synod. 

New  England  Luther  Leaguer.  Worcester,  1927- .  An  organ  of  the  New 
England  Conference  Luther  League. 

New  Yorks  bladet.  New  York,  1887-1888.   A  weekly  newspaper. 

New  York  stats  svenska  Argus,  New  York,  1879-1881? 

New  York  svenska  harold.  New  York,  1886-1887.  A  weekly. 

New  York  tidningen.    New  York,  and  Brooklyn,  1901-1902. 

New  Yorks  tidning.  New  York,  1892.  Only  one  number  has  been  found.  It 
contained  text  in  Swedish,  English,  German  and  French. 

167 


Norden.  New  York  and  Chicago,  1874-1877,  1897.  It  was  absorbed  by 
Nordstjernan.  It  was  a  continuation  of  Gamla  nordstjernan  and  North 
star. 

Norden.   Brooklyn,  1935-.   A  continuation  of  Finska  amerikanaren. 

Norden.   Topeka,  1913. 

Nordens  medborgare.  Manistee,  1889-1890.  A  weekly  newspaper  which  be- 
gan in  May  of  1889.  It  was  moved  from  Manistique  to  Manistee  shortly 
after  it  began. 

Nordiska  hem.  Tidskrift  for  Amerikas  svenskar.  Minneapolis,  1908-1917.  A 
periodical  of  general  interest  to  Swedes  in  America. 

Nordlyset.   Minneapolis,  1917.   A  literary  journal. 

Nordstjernan.    Cambridge,  Minn.,  1907-1910. 

Nordstjernan.  [M]  Ishpeming,  1901-1902.  A  monthly  youth  periodical.  It 
was  moved  to  Chicago  where  it  became  Epworthklockan. 

Nordstjernan.  New  York,  1872 -.  One  of  the  most  important  Swedish- 
American  newspapers  still  in  existence.    Absorbed  Norden. 

Nordvestern.  Minneapolis,  1872.  A  weekly  newspaper  which  existed  only 
from  July  to  August  of  1872. 

Nordvestern.    Illustrerad  manadsskrift.    Portland,  1907. 

Nordvestern-harold.  Superior  and  Duluth,  1900-1906.  A  weekly  which  was 
absorbed  by  Svenska  amerikanska  tribunen. 

Nordvesterns  handelstidning.  Duluth,  1902-1906.  A  weekly  which  was  ab- 
sorbed by  Duluth  posten.  Just  shortly  before  it  had  absorbed  Nord- 
vesterns nyheter. 

Nordvesterns  nyheter.  Duluth  and  Superior,  1906.  A  continuation  of  Nord- 
vesterns harold  and  absorbed  by  Nordvesterns  handelstidning. 

Nordvestkusten.    Veckoblad  for  Washington  Territory.    Seattle,  1885. 

Nordwestern.  Sioux  City,  1882-1883.  A  weekly  which  continued  as  Nya 
nordwestem. 

Nord-ostern.    Worcester,  1883-1885.    A  weekly  newspaper. 

Nornan.  Boston,  1896-1897.   A  magazine  for  women  and  home. 

Nornan.  Kalendern  Nornan.  Chicago,  1876.  Nya  verlden's  premium  for  1876. 

North.  Minneapolis,  1889-1894.  A  Scandinavian  newspaper  written  in 
English. 

Northland  magazine.  A  literary  magazine  in  English  for  Scandinavians. 
Minneapolis,  1898-1899. 

Northland  weekly.  Minneapolis,  1903-1905.  A  Scandinavian  young  people's 
literary  journal  interested  chiefly  in  the  Norwegian  aspect  of  Scandi- 
navism. 

North  star.  Minneapolis,  1918-1922.  A  Scandinavian  literary  periodical  es- 
sentially interested  in  the  Norwegian  aspect  of  Scandinavism. 

North  star.  Caribou  and  Fort  Fairfield,  Maine,  1872-1873.  An  English 
weekly  with  a  column  in  Swedish.  When  the  Swedish  part  was  dis- 
continued it  still  carried  a  great  deal  of  news  about  New  Sweden,  Maine. 

North  star  (Nordstjernan).  New  York,  July  16,  1874.  Became  Ganila  nord- 
stjernan.  A  weekly. 

168 


North  star.   Mount  Morris,  111.,  1917 -.   A  quarterly  publication  of  the  North 

Star  Life  Insurance  Society. 
North  star  signal.    Utgifven  af  North  Star  College  for  kyrkan,  skolan  och 

hemmet.    Warren,  Minn.,  1910-1918.    Other  numbers  might  be  found  at 

Gustavus  Adolphus  College.  It  was  published  very  irregularly. 
Nutiden.  New  York,  1882-1885.  A  literary  periodical  for  the  home. 
Nya  Colorado  posten.    Denver,  1883-1884.    A  weekly.    Formerly  Colorado 

posten.   Reverted  back  to  the  name  Colorado  posten  1884-1885  and  then 

consolidated  with  Svenska  hdrolden  of  Kansas  City,  Mo. 
Nya  folkets  tidning.   Omaha,  1876-1878.  A  continuation  of  Kansas  monitoren 

and  its  successor  Folkets  tidning.  Absorbed  by  Svenska  tribunen. 
Nya  faderneslandet.    Worcester  and  Boston,  1899.    A  weekly  which  was  a 

continuation  of  Arbetarens  van  and  Arbetaren.    It  seems  to  have  been 

discontinued  in  1900. 

Nya  idun.   [C]   Minneapolis,  1906-1924.  A  journal  for  women. 

Nya  Louisiana.    Chicago,  Jan.,   1871.    An  announcement  by   the   State  of 

Louisiana  advertising  its  land  and  opportunities  for  immigrants. 
Nya  nordwestern.    Sioux  City,  1883-1884.    A  weekly  and  a  continuation  of 

Nordwestern. 
Nya  osterns  weckoblad.    [C]    Worcester,  1896-1906.    Successor  of  Osterns 

veckoblad.  Name  changed  to  Osterns  veckoblad  in  1906. 
Nya  pressen.    Moline  and   Chicago,   1891-1897.    A  weekly.    Its   name  was 

changed  to  Chicago  Figaro. 
Nya  stilla  hafsposten.   San  Francisco,  1879.   A  weekly  continuation  of  Stilla 

hajsposten. 
Nya    svenska    amerikanaren.     Chicago,    1873-1877.     A    weekly    which    was 

merged  with  Nya  verlden  into  Svenska  tribunen. 
Nya  Sverige.  Rockford,  1872. 
Nya  tiden.  Seattle,  1892. 
Nya  verlden.    Galesburg  and  Chicago,  1870-1877.    A  weekly  which  was  a 

continuation  of  Illinois  Swede.  After  a  merger  with  Nya  svenska  ameri- 
kanaren, the  name  was  changed  to  Svenska  tribunen. 
Nya  verlden.  Minneapolis  and  Story  City,  la.,  1889-1893.   A  weekly. 
Nya  varlden.  Billingham,  Wash.,  1904-1909.  A  weekly. 
Nya  wecko-posten.    [B]    Chicago,  1884-1918.    A  weekly  newspaper  which 

was  a  continuation  of  Evangelisk  tidskrift.   In  1918  it  was  absorbed  by 

Svenska  standaret. 
Nya  wecko-posten.  Illustrerad  kalender.   [B]   Chicago,  1904-1918.  Published 

by  the  newspaper  of  the  same  name. 
Nybyggaren.    Svensk-engelsk  tidning  for  svenka  nybyggare  i  Nordvestern. 

Sioux  City  and  Sheldon,  1886. 
Nykterhetsbasunen.    Holdrege,   Neb.,   1890.    Only   a   campaign   temperance 

publication  which  after  a  few  months  in  1890  was  absorbed  by  Svenska 

journalen  of  Omaha. 
Nykterhetsbudbararen.    The  temperance  messenger.    Officielt  organ  for  de 

svenska  logerna  af  I.O.G.T.  .  .  .  Chicago,  [1909]. 

169 


Nykterhets-budbararen.  Organ  for  distrikts-logen  No.  14  af  I.O.G.T.  Chi- 
cago, 1900-. 

Nykterhetsklockan.  Absolut  nykterhet.  Sann  manniskokarlek.  Chicago, 
1893.   A  temperance  journal. 

Nykterhets  tidning.  Ishpeming,  1901.  A  temperance  journal  which  might 
have  been  a  continuation  of  Julbladet. 

Ny  tid.  Chicago,  1926-1931.  A  continuation  of  Svenska  socialisten;  i.  e.  Fack- 
lan  and  Folket  merged  March  10,  1922,  into  Ny  tid. 

Nytt  lif.  Nykyrkligt  manadsblad.  Minneapolis,  1912-1913.  A  Swedenborgian 
periodical. 

Nytt  och  gammalt.  Kristlig  tidskrift.  Lindsborg,  1873-.  A  monthly  Lu- 
theran periodical.  It  came  out  only  from  April  to  Dec.  Absorbed  in 
1874  by  Augustana. 

Odalmannen.  'The  yeoman."  Tidning  for  farm  och  hem.  Minneapolis,  1905- 
1912.  This  journal  of  agriculture  continued  for  a  short  time  in  1912  as 
Vestern-amerikanaren. 

Odd  Fellow  Orden.  I.O.O.F.  Guide.  Yearbook  1927.  Chicago,  [1927]. 

Olivbladet.  Luthersk  traktat-  och  nykterhetstidning.  Paxton,  1901-1918. 
This  was  a  Paxton  and  Bloomington  district  publication.  In  1918  the 
name  was  changed  to  Olive  leaf. 

Olive  leaf.  A  Lutheran  Sunday  School  paper  published  monthly  by  the 
Augustana  Tract  Society  .  .  .  Moline  and  Rock  Island,  1883 -. 

Omaha  posten.  Omaha,  1904-.  It  was  one  of  the  successful  weekly  news- 
papers. It  was  a  continuation  of  Svenska  journalen  tribunen.  It  has 
been  published  in  English  since  Sept.  1942.  It  also  absorbed  Vesterns 
svenska  tribun. 

Omaha  svenska  tribun.  Omaha,  1887-1892.  This  weekly  was  bought  by 
Svenska  joumalen.  The  name  was  changed  to  Svenska  iournalen  tri- 
bunen after  the  merger  of  the  two  papers. 

Oregon  posten.  Portland,  1908-1936.  A  weekly  which  is  one  of  the  most  im- 
portant sources  on  the  Swedes  in  Oregon,  Washington,  and  Idaho.  It 
might  have  been  a  continuation  of  Svenska  Oregon  posten.  In  1936 
Oregon  posten  merged  with  Svenska  journalen  into  Svenska  posten. 

Orkanen.  Worcester,  1888.  A  weekly. 

Osteins  harold.  Brooklyn  and  New  Britain,  1896-1913.  A  weekly  which 
represents  a  continuation  of  Framdt,  which  had  been  moved  from  Provi- 
dence to  Brooklyn  in  1894.  It  was  an  organ  of  the  New  England  Con- 
ference of  the  Augustana  Synod  even  though  it  was  interested  in  politics. 

Osterns  veckoblad.  New  York  and  Boston,  1890-1896.  A  monthly  continua- 
tion of  New  Yorks  missionsblad  which  became  a  weekly  in  1892  when 
it  was  moved  to  Boston.  In  1896  it  was  absorbed  by  Missions-vannen. 
Sometimes  name  was  spelled  Osterns  weckoblad. 

Osterns  weckoblad.  [C]  Worcester  and  New  Britain,  1907-1920.  A  continua- 
tion of  Nya  Osterns  weckoblad.  In  1917  this  weekly  was  moved  to  New 
Britain,  where  it  died  in  1929. 

Osterns  vaktare.  [L]  Jamestown,  1888-1890.  A  weekly  newspaper  which 
continued  as  Vart  land.   A  New  York  Conference  organ. 

170 


Ostra  posten.  Worcester,  1886-1889(7).   A  weekly.   Might  have  continued  as 

Ostra  vecko-posten. 
Ostra  vecko-posten.    [B]    Worcester  and  Minneapolis,  1889-1896(7).   Merged 

with  Missionsbladet  into  Svenska  baptisternas  tidning.    It  might  have 

been  a  continuation  of  Ostra  posten. 

Our  America.  Jamestown,  1875.  Previously  called  Vdrt  land. 

Our  children's  home  messenger.  Stanton,  la.,  1921-1932.  An  official  publica- 
tion of  the  Augustana  Lutheran  Orphanage  Home  of  the  Iowa  Con- 
ference. 

Our  church.  Published  by  the  Red  River  district  of  the  Lutheran  Red  River 
Valley  congregation,  n.  p.,  1926-1928. 

Our  Covenant.  Chicago,  1925-.  A  Covenant  yearbook  of  great  importance. 

Our  Covenant  little  folks.  Chicago,  1930-.  Covenant  publication  for  the  chil- 
dren in  Sunday  School. 

Our  Covenant  youth.  Chicago,  1930- .  A  Covenant  Sunday  School  publica- 
tion. 

Our  young  Covenanters.  Chicago,  1930-.  A  Covenant  Sunday  School  pub- 
lication. 

Pasklilja.  Seattle,  1907-7   An  Easter  annual. 

Pacific  tribune.  Seattle,  1903-1914.  A  continuation  of  Westerns  tribune;  in 
Oct.  1914,  the  paper  was  sold  and  its  name  changed  to  Svenska  Pacific 
tribunen.  It  was  a  weekly  and  is  an  important  source  on  the  history  of 
the  Swedes  in  the  Pacific  Northwest. 

Papegojan.  Humoristisk  manadstidning.  Seattle,  Dec.  1897. 

Pedagogen.  Lindsborg  and  Rock  Island,  1885-1887.  A  continuation  of  Aca- 
demia.  Later  the  name  was  changed  to  Fram&t.  A  monthly. 

Pegasus.  Annual  of  North  Park  College  students.  Chicago,  1930-.  Poetry  in 
Swedish  and  English. 

Pennsylvania  posten.  McKeesport,  1894-1897.  A  weekly. 

Pietist.  Galesburg  and  Keokuk,  1873.  This  publication  contained  chiefly 
translations  from  religious  literature  of  Sweden.  It  was  named  after  the 
well-known  Swedish  religious  periodical. 

Pilgrimens  mal.  Chicago,  1905-1908.  A  religious  periodical. 

Pingst-liljan.  Seattle,  May,  1909. 

Pocatello  tribune.  Pocatello,  1892.  Started  as  a  weekly  in  Swedish  and  be- 
came an  English  daily. 

Politisk  skrift.  Grand  Rapids,  1888.  A  political  campaign  paper. 
Polstjernan.  New  York,  1897. 

Postens  farm-tidning.  Minneapolis,  1912.  A  supplement  of  Svenska  ameri- 
kanska  posten. 

Posten.  Organ  for  Skandinaviska  distriktslogen  No.  27  af  I.O.G.T.  Warren, 
Penn.,  [1912].  A  temperance  journal  belonging  to  the  I.O.G.T.  District- 
Lodge  No.  27. 

Prarieblomman  kalender.  Rock  Island,  1900-1913. 

171 


Presiding  elder's  ideal  quarterly  conference  record.  [MJ  Chicago,  1908-09, 
1910-11.  Personal  records  of  Alfred  Anderson,  Superintendent  of  Chi- 
cago District,  Central  Swedish  Conference. 

Providence  allehanda.  Providence,  1891-1892.  A  weekly  edition  of  Boston 
allehanda. 

Puget  Sound  posten.  Tacoma,  1907-1935.  A  weekly  which  was  a  continua- 
tion of  Tacoma  posten. 

Qvinnan  och  hemmet.  See  Kvinnan  och  hemmet. 

Raddningslinan.  Published  by  the  Scandinavian  Women's  Alliance  Mission. 
Minneapolis,  1909-1939. 

Det  ratta  hemlandet.  Galesburg  and  Chicago,  1856-1873.  The  oldest  periodi- 
cal belonging  to  the  Augustana  Synod.  In  1863  its  name  was  changed  to 
Det  ratta  hemlandet  och  missionsbladet.  In  1869  it  merged  with  Augus- 
tana into  Ratta  hemlandet  och  Augustana  and  in  1874  it  became  Au- 
gustana, luthersk  kyrkotidning. 

Reformation.  Worcester,  1900-1910.  This  temperance  journal,  an  organ  for 
Svenska  nykterhets  forbundet  of  Worcester  and  Eastern  Skandinavian 
Grand  Lodge  of  I.O.G.T.,  was  begun  in  1900  as  a  political  campaign 
paper  and  continued  with  3  numbers  annually  after  1905. 

Revolt.  Chicago,  1911-1916. 

Rockfords  allehanda.  Rockford,  1884-1886.  A  weekly  which  changed  its 
name  in  1886  to  Svenska  fria  pressen. 

Rockford  posten.  Rockford,  1889-1911.  A  weekly  which  continued  after  1911 
as  Svenska  posten. 

Roman-biblioteket.  Tidskrift  for  skonlitteratur.  Chicago,  1885.  A  journal  of 
fiction  published  two  times  a  month. 

Rothuggaren.  The  Radical.  Egnad  till  afskaffande  af  fattigdom,  okunnighet, 
elakhet,  okyskhet,  fylleri,  orattvisa,  lagvrangning  och  allt  ondt.  Licht- 
field  and  Grove  City,  Minn.,  1880-1886.  It  was  published  only  for  a 
short  time  in  Grove  City  during  1881.  Paper  written  in  both  English  and 
Swedish,  became  English  entirely  in  Sept.  1885.  During  1884  the  paper 
used  the  subtitle  of  Swedish  and  English  anti-monopoly  Greenback 
labor  monthly  journal.  The  word  "monthly"  dropped  soon.  Once  "tem- 
perance" used  instead  of  "Greenback." 

Sabbatsskolans  lexblad.  Chicago,  1879.  A  Sunday  School  paper  which  con- 
tinued as  Den  lilla  missionaren. 

Samfundet  St.  Erik  i  New  York  arsbok.  Jenny  Lind  nummer.  An  annual 
of  the  Society  of  St.  Erik. 

Sanatorie  bladet.  Denver,  1910.  A  monthly  publication  of  the  Sanatorium  at 
Denver  during  1910. 

Sandebudet.   [M]   Rockford  and  Chicago,  1862-1948. 

Sanningen.   Ishpeming,  1888.    A  campaign  paper  for  the  Labor  party. 

Sanningen  och  enebusken.  Chicago,  1888- ?  An  annual  advertising  Lundeen's 
juniper  ale.  It  was  published  before  the  turn  of  the  century  and  was 
continued  for  some  years. 

Sanningens  harold.  En  illustrerad  religios  tidskrift  for  hemmet,  egnad  at 
kristlig    religion,    profetiornas    forklaring    och    fbrkunnandet    af    Kristi 

172 


andra  uppenbarelse.  [SDA]  Battle  Creek,  Mich.,  and  Kristiania,  Nor- 
way, 1884-?  A  continuation  of  Svensk  advent  harold  and  Advent  hdrol- 
den. 

Sanningens  tolk.  Minneapolis,  1906-1912.  A  monthly  periodical  devoted  to 
information  in  the  Scriptures. 

Sanningens  van.  [B]  Minneapolis,  Kiron,  la.,  and  Grundy,  Minn.,  1901- 
1922. 

Sanning  och  frid.  Illustrerad  kristlig  tidskrift  for  hemmet.  New  York,  1885- 
1894. 

Sanning  och  frihet.  Minneapolis,  1896-?  An  organ  of  the  Free  Church  which 
continued  after  1910. 

Sattaren.  Moline,  1879. 

Scandia.  Chicago,  1867.  An  advertisement  of  Scandia,  a  sick  and  benefit 
society. 

Scandia  Life  news.  Chicago,  1906-1914.  An  advertising  medium  of  Scandia 
Life  Insurance  Company. 

Scandias  stjerna.  Omaha,  1868-1869.  A  religious  periodical  which  was  a  con- 
tinuation of  Vdktaren. 

Scandinavia.  A  monthly  journal.  Chicago,  1881-1886.  A  literary  journal  en- 
tirely in  English. 

Scandinavian-American.  Seattle,  1945-1947. 

Scandinavian-American.  Spokane.  A  periodical  in  English  of  very  brief 
existence. 

Scandinavian  Fraternity  review.  Scandinavian  Fraternity  of  America.  A  bi- 
monthly fraternal  and  literary  magazine,  illustrated.  Official  organ  of 
the  Scandinavian  Fraternity  of  America.  Spokane,  1916-1917. 

Scandinavian  Good  Templar.  Minneapolis,  New  York  and  Chicago,  1900- 
1935.  This  is  Skandinaviska  good  templaren  begun  as  the  publication 
of  the  Minnesota  Scandinavian  Grand  Lodge  of  I.O.G.T.  Later  it  was 
moved  to  New  York  and  Chicago  where  it  became  Scandinavian  Good 
Templar  and  died  in  Sept.  of  1935. 

Scandinavian  times.  New  York,  1911.  A  monthly  periodical  discontinued 
after  the  publication  of  four  numbers. 

Schibboleth.  [L]  Moline  and  Chicago,  1878-1879.  Very  incomplete  files  of 
this  periodical  dedicated  to  a  war  against  secret  societies. 

Sharon.  Lindsborg,  July  14,  1887.  An  advertisement  of  "good"  land  for  sale. 

Signalen.  College  View,  Neb.,  1907-1913.  One  of  many  periodicals  published 
by  International  Publishing  Association  of  Seventh  Day  Adventists. 
They  include  Svensk  advent  harold,  1873-1879,  which  changed  name  to 
Advent  hdrolden,  1880-1884,  which  changed  name  to  Sanningens  harold, 
which  merged  with  Sions  vdktare,  1891-1893,  and  became  Sions  vdktare 
och  sanningens  harold,  1893-1897,  and  continued  as  Sions  vdktare,  1898- . 
Oldest  of  these  papers  prior  to  1903  published  at  Battle  Creek,  Mich. 

Signalen.  Kansas  City,  Mo.,  Feb.  13,  1886. 

173 


Silverhill  nyheter.  Silverhill,  Ala.,  1901-1907.  A  monthly  published  to  pro- 
mote interest  in  the  land  around  Silverhill;  changed  its  name  to  Silver- 
hill agriculturist. 

Sions  baner.   See  Zions  barter. 

Sions-bladet.  A  paper  for  the  Swedish  Lutheran  Church  in  the  Pacific 
Northwest.  Tacoma,  1920-1926.  This  was  originally  just  a  parish  paper 
begun  in  1901.  It  became  a  periodical  of  the  Columbia  Conference  and 
was  absorbed  by  Columbia  Lutheran  in  1927. 

Sions-posten,  gemensamt  organ  for  Svensk  Metodisterna  i  Minneapolis. 
Minneapolis,  1914-1918. 

Sions  vakt.  [SDA]  Brookfield,  111.,  1874- ?  A  weekly  which  became  Sions 
vdktare. 

Sions  vaktare.  Illustrerad  tidskrift  for  kyrkan  och  hemmet.  [SDA]  Battle 
Creek,  Mich.,  and  Brookfield,  111.,  1901-.   Successor  to  Sions  vakt. 

Sjukvannen.  Utgifven  vid  Immanuel  [Deaconess]  Hospital.  Omaha,  1896- 
1901. 

Skaffaren.  Bihang  till  Skaffaren.    [L]    Wed.,  Oct.  20,  1880. 

Skaffaren  och  Minnesota  stats  tidning.  [L]  St.  Paul  and  Minneapolis,  1882- 
1885.  This  weekly  was  the  result  of  a  merger  of  Skaffaren  and  Minne- 
sota stats  tidning;  it  continued  as  Skaffaren. 

Skaffaren.  [L]  St.  Paul  and  Minneapolis,  1885-1895.  A  continuation  of 
Skaffaren  och  Minnesota  stats  tidning;  changed  its  name  in  1895  to  Min- 
nesota stats  tidning. 

Skaffaren.  [L]  St.  Paul  and  Red  Wing,  1878-1882.  A  weekly  which  was  a 
continuation  of  Evangelisk  luthersk  tidskrift.  It  continued  in  turn  as 
Skaffaren  och  Minnesota  stats  tidning. 

Skaffaren.  Supplement  till  Hemlandet.  [L]  Chicago,  [1869].  This  was  a 
premature  announcement  of  the  birth  of  Skaffaren.  This  paper  never 
began. 

Skamt.    [Chicago,  1893.]    A  humorous  monthly. 

Skandia.   Chicago,  1890-1891. 

Skandia.   Denver,  1906.   A  weekly. 

Skandia.  Illustrerad  manadsskrift  for  skandinaviska  hem  i  Amerika.  New 
York,  1886. 

Skandia.  Jamestown,  1909-1946.  This  is  one  of  the  more  important  weeklies 
in  the  East  and  represents  a  continuation  of  the  monthly  periodical 
called  Foreningsvannen  started  in  1901  by  the  Scandinavian  Brotherhood 
Society  of  America  as  its  official  organ.  It  is  an  important  source  on  the 
Swedes  in  Jamestown,  and  Pennsylvania.  Absorbed  by  Nordstjernan. 
1947. 

Skandia.  Moline,  1876-1878.   A  weekly  absorbed  by  Svenska  tribuncn. 

Skandia.  New  York,  1868.  A  monthly. 

Skandia.   New  York,  1886.    A  monthly  periodical. 

Skandia.  Sioux  City,  1892-1895.  A  weekly  which  changed  its  name  in  1895 
to  Svenska  tidningen  och  Skandia  after  a  merger  with  Svenska  journalen 
of  Omaha.  It  was  then  published  in  Kansas  City,  Mo.,  as  special  edi- 
tion of  Svenska  journalen. 

174 


Skandinavia.  Worcester,  1887-1918.  A  weekly  which  was  a  continuation  of 
Worcester  veckoblad.  Absorbed  by  Svea  in  1918. 

Skandinaven.  New  York,  1851-1852.  This  is  the  first  weekly  newspaper 
published  by  the  Swedes  in  America.  It  was  written  partly  in  Swedish 
and  partly  in  Norwegian.  It  came  out  irregularly. 

Skandinaviska  amerikanska  arbetaren.  New  York,  1894-1895?  A  publi- 
cation for  Scandinavians  published  bi-weekly  (?)  as  the  organ  of  Scan- 
dinavian Socialist  Labor  Society  or  Union.   Continued  as  Arbetaren. 

Skandinavisk  bok-  och  musik-tidning.  New  York,  1890.  Gives  a  monthly 
record  of  new  publications  of  books  and  music  that  came  out  in  Sweden. 
Norway,  Denmark,  and  Finland  as  well  as  in  this  country. 

Skandinavisk  farmers-  och  industri-tidning.  New  York,  1876.  A  weekly 
which  was  a  continuation  of  Skandinavisk  post. 

Skandinavisk  harold.  Omaha,  1870-1883.  From  Dec.  1870  to  Dec.  1883  it  was 
published  intermittently  as  a  monthly  and  a  weekly.  It  was  absorbed 
by  Svenska  veckobladet. 

Skandinavisk  post.  New  York,  1863-1875.  A  weekly.  Its  owner  also  pub- 
lished a  daily  with  the  same  name  from  1867-1875  and  a  Sunday  edition 
in  1875. 

Den  skandinaviska  spiritualisten.  Minneapolis,  1896-1897.  It  continued  for  a 
couple  of  years  as  Nya  tiden. 

Skandinaviska  Good  Templaren.  Tidning  for  Skandinaviska  goodtemplare  i 
Amerika.  Minneapolis,  1901-1918.  The  periodical  contained  text  both  in 
Swedish  and  Norwegian.  It  was  the  official  organ  of  the  Scandinavian 
Grand  Lodge  of  the  I.O.G.T. 

Skoldmon.  Chicago.  An  official  organ  of  the  Independent  Order  of  the 
Ladies  of  Vikings. 

Skordemannen.  Winthrop,  St.  Peter,  and  Minneapolis,  1888-1918.  A  monthly 
agricultural  journal  1880-1888;  semi-monthly  1888-1918. 

Skogsblomman.  Illustrerad  kalender.  Minneapolis  and  Chicago,  1899-1917. 
An  annual  of  the  Free  Church. 

Skolvannen.  Moline  and  Rock  Island,  1878-1894.  A  tract  published  promot- 
ing the  interest  of  Augustana  College.  Sometimes  the  journal  was  called 
Skolwdnnen. 

Snbfrid.  Utg.  av  Tegnerfbrbundet  vid  Minnesota  College.   Minneapolis,  1916. 
Sodra  vecko-posten.  Austin,  1881.  A  short-lived  Texas  weekly. 
Sondagskol-baneret.   [M]   Chicago,  1881-1918. 
Sbndagsskol-vannen.  Kristlig  uppbyggelse-  och  missionstidning  for  barn  och 

ungdom.    Minneapolis,   1885-1915?     Became   Sunday   School   jriend   in 

1919  (?). 
Sondagsskol-vannens  lexblad.  Quarterly,  n.  p.,  1889. 
Solrosen.    [C]    Topeka,  1916-1919.    A  monthly  periodical  for  young  people. 

It  was  moved  to  Winnipeg  in  1919. 
Solsken.  Tidskrift  for  svenska  folket.  Chicago,  1913.  A  monthly. 
Song-album.  American  Union  of  Swedish  Singers,  1897,  1905,  1907,  1910,  1912. 

175 


Stadsmissionaren.  Official  organ  of  the  Chicago  Lutheran  Inner  Missionary 
Society.  Chicago,  1909-1924.  The  official  organ  of  the  Augustana  Inner 
Mission.  It  continued  as  City  missionary. 

Standard.    [B].    Chicago,  1940-.   A  continuation  of  Svenska  standaret. 

Standaret.  [C]  Marinette,  Wis.,  1908.  Merged  with  Budbdraren  and  con- 
tinued up  to  1910. 

Stilla  hafs-posten.  San  Francisco,  1879-1882.  A  weekly  which  was  published 
irregularly.  Continued  as  Nya  stilla  hafs-posten. 

Stilla  stunder.  Christligt  manads-magazin  for  hard  och  hem.  Worcester, 
[1891]. 

Stridsropet.  New  York,  1891-.  The  official  organ  of  the  Salvation  Army  in 
Swedish. 

Superior-posten.  Ishpeming,  1888-1918.  A  fairly  successful  weekly  news- 
paper. 

Svea.  Chicago,  1869-1870.  Perhaps  the  earliest  effort  at  a  short  story  maga- 
zine in  Swedish  in  America.  Another  periodical  with  the  same  name 
and  program  came  out  during  1880-1881. 

Svea.   Chicago,  1888-1889.  A  periodical  urging  tax  reform. 

Svea.  Illustrerad  kalender.   New  York,  1888-1889. 

Svea.  Kansas  City,  Mo.,  1885. 

Svea.  Worcester,  1897-.  Svea  became  a  weekly  in  1901.  It  absorbed  such 
papers  as  Skandinavia,  Svenska  nyheter  and  Osterns  harold.  It  is  the 
most  important  source  on  the  Swedes  in  New  England. 

Svensk  adresskalender.  Jamestown,  1909. 

Svensk  advent  harold.  En  manadtlig  tidskrift,  invigd  till  praktisk  kristen- 
dom,  profeternas  forklaring  .  .  .  [SDA]  Battle  Creek,  1874-1876.  It  con- 
tinued later  as  Advent  harold,  1880-1883,  and  as  Sanningens  harold.  1884- 
1886.  It  was  a  forerunner  of  Signalen. 

Svensk  almanacka  for  ar  1891  utgifven  af  Amerikanska  Emigrant  Kompaniet. 
New  York,  [1890]. 

Svensk-amerikanska  familj-journalen.  Evanston,  1907-.  A  journal  which 
absorbed  Svenska  minnen. 

Svensk-amerikanska  kalendern.   Worcester,  1911,  1912. 

Svensk-amerikanska  pressen.  New  York  or  Brooklyn,  1896-1899.  A  political 
weekly  which  had  a  precarious  existence. 

Svensk-amerikanska  pressen  och  Svenska  journalistforbundet  i  Amerika. 
Rock  Island,  1923.  An  annual  of  the  Swedish  Society  of  Journalists  in 
America. 

Svensk  amerikanska  tribunen.  Superior,  Wis.,  1904-1920.  A  weekly  which 
combined  with  Duluth  posten  in  January  of  1920  into  Svenska  ameri- 
kanska Duluth  posten. 

Svensk-amerikanska  western.  Denver,  1901-1928.  A  weekly  which  was  a 
continuation  of  Svenska  korrespondenten.  In  1928  its  name  was  changed 
to  Westerns  nyheter.  It  is  an  excellent  reference  on  Swedes  in  Colo- 
rado and  Utah. 

Svensk  familjejournal.  Minneapolis  and  Evanston,  1889-1921.  A  literary 
periodical  for  the  home. 

176 


Svensk-finska  budbararen.    [C]    Brooklyn,  1908-1928.    It  was  absorbed  by 

Forbundets  veckotidning  in  1928. 
Svensk-finska  sandebudet.    Tidning  for  svensk-finska  lutheranerna  i  Ame- 

rika.   Marinette  and  Duluth,  1910-1921.   A  monthly. 
Svensk  kalender  i  Boston.   Boston,  1881. 
Svensk  kyrko-tidning.    Organ  for  svensk  kyrklighet  och  bildning.    Chicago 

and  Minneapolis,  1888-1893.   A  religious  periodical. 
Svensk  Jul.    Rockford,  1896-1916.    A  Christmas   calendar,  chiefly   aimed  at 

advertising  local  stores. 

Svensk  musik  tidning.    New  York,  1881-1933? 

Svensk  stadskalender  for  Omaha  och  Syd  Omaha.   Omaha,  [1888,  1891]. 

Svensk  unitarisk  tidning.   Chicago,  1909. 

Svenska  almanackan.   Chicago,  1916-1918. 

Svenska  amerikanaren.  Chicago,  1866-1873.  A  weekly  which  continued  as 
Nya  svensk  amerikanaren  and  later  as  Svenska  tribunen. 

Svenska  amerikanaren.  Chicago,  1877-1936.  A  continuation  of  Svenska 
posten.  It  has  absorbed  a  large  number  of  newspapers  and  is  unques- 
tionably the  most  popular  Swedish-American  newspaper.  When  it  ab- 
sorbed Svenska  tribunen  nyheter  in  1936  the  name  was  changed  to 
Svenska  amerikanaren  tribunen.  It  had  absorbed  Svenska  varlden 
(1908) ;  Hemlandet  (1914) ;  Svenska  kuriren  (1929) ;  Svenska  tribunen 
nyheter  (1936) ;  and  Svenska  amerikanska  posten  (1940) . 

Svenska  amerikanarens  almanack.   Chicago,  1914-1933. 

Svenska  amerikanaren  tribunen.  Chicago,  1936- .  New  name  used  after 
Svenska  amerikanaren  absorbed  Svenska  tribunen  nyheter  in  1936. 

Svenska  amerikanska  nyheter.   Sioux  City,  1907-1908.   A  weekly. 

Svenska  amerikanska  posten.  Minneapolis,  1885-1940.  A  weekly  newspaper 
absorbed  by  Svenska  amerikanaren  tribunen  in  1940. 

Svenska  amerikanska  pressen.   Sioux  City,  1891-1892.   A  weekly  newspaper. 

Svenska  amerikanska  tribunen.  Superior,  Wis.,  1904-1920.  This  was  a  con- 
tinuation of  Wisconsin  svenska  tribunen.  A  weekly  newspaper  which 
began  in  1904  and  was  merged  with  Duluth  posten  into  Svenska  ameri- 
kanska Duluth  posten  in  1921. 

Svenska  arbetaren.  Chicago,  1882-1883.  A  weekly  devoted  to  the  cause  of 
labor.   It  became  Svenske  arbetaren  in  1883. 

Svenska  arbetarens  van.   San  Francisco,  1892-1893.   A  monthly. 

Svenska  baptisternas  tidning.  Minneapolis  and  Burlington,  la.,  7-1896.  A 
merger  of  Ostra  vecko-posten  and  Missions  bladet. 

Svenska  baptistforsamlingarnas  i  Amerika  kvartals-skrift.  Chicago,  1898- 
1899. 

Svenska  baptiststandaret.  (Ungdoms-stjarnan).  Organ  for  Svenska  baptis- 
ternas i  Amerika  allmanna  konferens.    Chicago,  1911. 

Svenska  bladet.  Harlem,  N.  Y.,  1897.   Only  three  numbers  published. 

Svenska  Canada  kuriren.  Vancouver,  1914.  A  weekly  newspaper. 

Svenska  dagbladet.  Ashland,  Wis.,  1901.  This  daily  newspaper  was  published 
from  September  to  November  of  1901. 

177 


Svenska  dagbladet.   St.  Paul,  1885.   Organ  for  Swedish  Labor. 

Svenska  dagbladet.  St.  Paul  and  Minneapolis,  1888.  An  earlier  daily  called 
Svenska  dagbladet  was  published  in  St.  Paul  in  1885. 

Svenska  farm-journalen.   Omaha,  1S04-1910. 

Svenska  folkets  allehanda.  Litchfield  and  St.  Paul,  1883-1884.  A  weekly 
which  was  absorbed  by  Svenska  amerikanaren. 

Svenska  folkets  rost.   Chicago,  1910.   A  weekly  newspaper. 

Svenska  folkets  tidning.   Minneapolis  and  St.  Paul,  1881-1927.   A  weekly. 

Svenska  folkets  tribun.   Wahoo,  Neb.,  1884.   A  weekly  newspaper. 

Svenska  fria  pressen.  Duluth,  1891-1893.  A  weekly  which  changed  name  to 
Minnesota  svenska  tribun  in  1893. 

Svenska  fria  pressen.  Rockford,  1886.  A  weekly  which  was  a  continuation 
of  Rockfords  allehanda.  It  was  absorbed  by  Svenska  amerikanaren  in 
1887. 

Svenska  harolden.  Salina,  Kan.,  and  Kansas  City,  Mo.,  1878-1884.  A  weekly 
newspaper. 

Svenska  harolden.   Salt  Lake  City,  1885-1893.    A  weekly  newspaper. 

Svenska  geni  karen  i  Chicago  industri  och  handtverk.  Chicago,  n.  d.  An 
annual  of  the  Swedish  Engineers'  Society  of  Chicago. 

Svenska  ingenjorsforeningen.  Monthly  bulletin.  Chicago,  1925-1931.  A 
monthly  publication. 

Svenska  journalen.  Omaha,  1889-1892.  A  weekly  which  in  1892  merged  with 
Omaha  svenska  tribun  into  Svenska  journalen  tribunen,  and  became 
Omaha  posten  in  1904. 

Svenska  journalen.  Rockford,  1912-1913.  Very  incomplete  files  are  found  of 
this  weekly.  It  was  essentially  a  newspaper  for  the  Swedes  of  Rockford. 

Svenska  journalen.  Seattle,  1926-1935.  A  weekly  newspaper  which  merged 
with  Oregon  posten  in  1936  into  Svenska  posten. 

Svenska  journalen  tribunen.  Omaha,  1892-1904.  A  weekly  which  continued 
as  Omaha  posten.  Formerly  it  had  been  Omaha  swenska  tribun. 

Svenska  korrespondenten.  Denver,  1889-1901.  A  weekly  which  was  a  con- 
tinuation of  Denver  weckoblad.  Continued  later  as  Svenska-ameri- 
kanska  western.  This  is  one  of  the  best  sources  on  the  Swedes  in  Colo- 
rado and  Utah. 

Svenska  kristna  harolden.  [C]  Minneapolis,  1884-1887.  A  weekly  which 
continued  as  Minneapolis  veckoblad. 

Svenska  kuriren.  Chicago,  1887-1929.  A  continuation  of  Kurre.  Purchased 
and  absorbed  by  Svenska  amerikanaren  in  1929.  This  weekly  was  one 
of  the  most  spirited  newspapers  and  its  interpretations  are  colorful 
though  perhaps  not  objective. 

Svenska  litterara  sallskapet  de  nio.  Arsbok.  Upsala  College.  Kenilworth, 
N.  Y.,  and  East  Orange,  N.  J.,  1918-1930.    A  college  literary  annual. 

Svenska  Minnesota  bladet.  Red  Wing,  Minn.,  1869.  A  weekly  which  soon 
was  absorbed  by  Minnesota  tidning,  which  in  turn  became  Svenska 
monitoren  in  1870. 

178 


Svenska  missionsbladet  i  New  York  .  .  .  [C]  New  York,  1887.  A  religious 
periodical  which  was  absorbed  by  New  Yorkbladet. 

Svenska  missionsbladet.  [C]  Grand  Rapids,  1903.  A  periodical  which  failed 
after  only  one  number. 

Svenska  monitoren.  St.  Paul  and  Minneapolis,  1870-1872.  A  continuation  of 
Minnesota  tidning.   A  weekly  which  met  with  little  success. 

Svenska  monitoren.  Sioux  City,  1895-1939.  A  weekly  which  became  Lu- 
theran monitor  in  1939. 

Svenska  monitorens  midsommarnummer,  1916.  A  very  interesting  and  valu- 
able midsummer  number  of  Svenska  monitoren  of  Sioux  City,  la. 

Svenska  nationalbiblioteket.  En  manadsskrift  for  romaner,  poesi  m.  m.  Chi- 
cago, 1882-1883. 

Svenska  nordvastern.  Spokane,  1907-1920.  A  weekly  newspaper  which  is  a 
good  source  on  the  Swedes  in  the  Pacific  Northwest.  Backhand  claims 
this  paper  continued  until  1927. 

Svenska  nybyggaren.  St.  Paul  and  Minneapolis,  1872-1876.  A  weekly  politi- 
cal newspaper. 

Svenska  nyheter.  Boston,  1913-1918.  A  weekly. 

Svenska  nyheter.  Chicago,  1901-1906.  A  weekly  continuation  of  Humoristen; 
absorbed  by  Svenska  tribunen,  July,  1906. 

Svenska  nyheter.   New  York,  1893. 

Svenska  nyketerhets-tidningen  Templar-bladet.  Jamestown,  1891- ?  This  in- 
formation is  perhaps  incorrect.  It  may  not  have  started  before  1897.  In 
1909  it  was  moved  to  Hartford,  Conn.,  and  sometimes  it  carried  Collins- 
ville,  Conn.,  or  East  Orange,  N.  J.  as  the  place  of  publication. 

Svenska  Pacific-tribunen.  Seattle,  1914-1946.  A  weekly  which  was  a  con- 
tinuation of  Pacific  tribunen.  In  1946  it  was  absorbed  by  Svenska  posten. 
The  volume  number  of  Svenska  Pacific-tribunen  was  retained  by 
Svenska  posten. 

Svenska  posten.  Rockford,  1911-1918.  This  weekly  was  formerly  Rockford 
posten. 

Svenska  posten.  Chicago,  1876-1877.  Changed  name  in  1877  to  Svenska 
amerikanaren.  A  weekly  newspaper. 

Svenska  posten.  Brooklyn,  New  York,  and  Omaha,  1880-1894.  A  weekly 
started  in  New  York  in  1880,  in  Brooklyn  from  1881-1884  and  New  York 
from  1884-1886.   After  October  of  1886  it  was  moved  to  Omaha. 

Svenska  posten.  Seattle,  1936-.  A  weekly  representing  the  merger  of  Puget 
Sound  posten,  Oregon  posten,  and  Svenska  journalen.  In  1943  it  ab- 
sorbed Svenska  pressen  of  Spokane. 

Svenska  pressen.  Omaha,  1903-1906.  A  weekly  newspaper  with  strong 
Covenant  leanings.   Absorbed  by  Minneapolis  veckoblad. 

Svenska  pressen.  Vancouver,  1930-1937.  A  weekly  newspaper  continued  as 
Nya  svenska  pressen.  Since  1942  Nya  svenska  pressen  has  been  pub- 
lished in  English. 

Svenska  pressen.  Kansas  City,  Mo.,  1901.  A  weekly  newspaper  which 
changed  name  in  1901  to  Kansas  City  tribun. 

179 


Svenska  pressen.  Spokane,  1932-1943.  This  weekly  was  either  discontinued 
or  merged  with  Svenska  posten  on  May  20,  1943. 

Svenska  pressen.  Tacoma  or  Seattle,  1908-1914.  A  weekly.  Probably  merged 
with  Westerns  tribun  in  1914  into  Svenska  Pacific  tribunen. 

Svenska  republikanen  i  Norra  Amerika.  Galva  and  Chicago,  1856-1858.  A 
weekly  newspaper. 

Svenska  revyen.  Detroit,  June,  1897.  Doubtful  if  more  than  this  number 
was  published  of  this  literary  journal. 

Svenska  roman  bladet.  Red  Wing  and  Minneapolis,  1889-1917.  A  magazine 
of  fiction  which  was  absorbed  by  Romanjournalen. 

Svenska  socialisten.  Rockford  and  Chicago,  1905-1921.  Scattered  copies  are 
found  of  this  weekly  socialist  newspaper  for  1909-1921.  In  1921  its  name 
was  changed  to  Facklan  of  which  no  numbers  are  found. 

Svenska  standaret.    Chicago,   1911-1940.    The   official  organ   of  the   Baptist 

General  Conference  since  1911.   Name  was  changed  to  Standard  in  1940. 

It  was  a  continuation  of  Nya  wecko-posten. 
Svenska  sydvestern.    Kansas  City,  Mo.,  1895-1899.    A  continuation  of  Arbe- 

tarens  van;  in  1897,  name  simplified  by  dropping  of  "Svenska.'' 
Svenska  tidningen  och  Skandia.   Kansas  City,  Mo.,  1895-1898.   Formerly  this 

weekly  newspaper  was  published  at  Sioux  City,  la.,  as  Skandia,  a  Kan- 
sas City  edition  of  Svenska  journalen  of  Omaha. 
Svenska  tribunen.    Chicago,   1877-1906.    A  most  important  weekly.    When 

SveTtska  tribunen  and  Svenska  nyheter  merged  in  1906,  the  name  was 

changed  to  Svenska  tribunen  nyheter. 
Svenska  tribunen.    Seattle,  1922-1946.   A  weekly  newspaper. 
Svenska  tribunen  nyheter.    Chicago,  1906-1936.    A  very  important  weekly 

absorbed   in   1936   by   Svenska   amerikanaren   which    became    Svenska 

amerikanaren  tribunen. 
Svenska  universalisten.  Minneapolis,  1887.   A  Universalist  periodical. 
Svenska  Vancouver  posten.   Vancouver,  1910-1914.   A  weekly  newspaper. 
Svenska  veckobladet.  Grand  Rapids,  1887-1890. 
Svenska  veckobladet.  McKeesport,  Pa.,  1890-1919.   A  weekly. 
Svenska  veckobladet.    Omaha  and  Kansas  City,  1884-1891.    A  weekly  which 

changed  name  to  Facklan. 
Svenska  varlden.    Chicago,  1904-1908.    A  weekly   which   was   absorbed   by 

Svenska  amerikanaren. 
Svenske  arbetaren.  Chicago,  1883-1884.  A  continuation  of  Svenska  arbetaren. 
Svithiod.    Des  Moines,  1883-1903.    A  weekly.    Absorbed  by  Svenska  folkets 

tidning,  Minneapolis. 
Svithiod  journalen.    Blue  Island  and  Mount  Morris,  111.,  1898-.    The  official 

organ  of  the  Svithiod  Order,  a  fraternal  organization. 

Swea.   Chicago,  1880-1881.   A  fiction  magazine. 

Swedish  American  citizen.   Holdrege,  Neb.,  1888-1889.   A  weekly. 

Swedish-American  forum.    Dorchester,  Mass.,  April-June,  1929. 

180 


Swedish-American  historical  bulletin.  St.  Peter,  Minn.,  1928-1932. 

Swedish-American  trade  journal.  Official  bulletin  of  the  Swedish  Chamber 
of  Commerce  of  the  United  States  of  America.  New  York,  1916-1933. 

Swedish  blue  book;  a  Swedish -American  directory  and  yearbook  for  Chi- 
cago.  Chicago,  1927-1930. 

Swedish  Chamber  of  Commerce  of  New  York  in  the  interest  of  trade  be- 
tween the  United  States  and  Sweden.   Bulletin.    New  York,  1915. 

Swedish  Chamber  of  Commerce  of  the  United  States  of  America.  Yearbook. 
New  York,  1907-1932. 

Swedish  Citizen.  Galva  and  Moline,  1880-1881.  A  weekly  newspaper  which 
continued  as  Citizen  in  1881. 

Swedish  Club  news.   Chicago,  1912-1913.   A  monthly. 

Swedish  directory  of  Cleveland,  Ohio,  1898. 

Swedish  Engineer's  Society  of  Chicago.  Membership  Book.  1909-1914,  1916- 
1919,  1923,  1925-1929. 

Swedish  Engineer's  Society  yearbook.  Chicago,  1909,  1910,  1912-1914,  1917- 
1919,  1923,  1925,  1929. 

Swedish  Engineer's  Society  of  Detroit.   Bulletin.  Detroit,  1924. 

Swedish  Historical  Society  of  America.  Bulletin.  St.  Peter,  Minn.,  1928-1932. 

Swedish  Historical  Society  of  America.  Yearbook.  Chicago  and  St.  Paul, 
1907-1926.  Also  called  Svensk-amerikanska  sallskapets  arsbok,  or 
Svenska  historiska  sallskapets  i  Amerika  arsbok. 

Swedish  National  Sanatorium  journal.  Denver,  1930.  (May  have  begun  in 
1922.) 

Swedish  Pacific  press  (Svenska  pressen) .  Seattle,  1908-1914.  A  weekly 
which  had  begun  as  Vaktaren. 

Swedish  pioneer  historical  quarterly.   Rock  Island,  1949- . 

Svenske  republikanan  i  Norra  Amerika.  Galesburg  and  Chicago,  1856-1858. 
A  weekly  newspaper. 

Swedish  societies'  old  people's  annual.  Home  Association.  Chicago,  1924- 
1928. 

Sydvestern.  Kansas  City,  Mo.,  1897-1899.  A  weekly  newspaper  which  was  a 
continuation  of  Svenska  sydvestern. 

Tabitha.  Kvartalsskrift  fran  Bethesda  diakonisshem.  St.  Paul,  1909-1914.  A 
monthly  periodical  published  in  the  interest  of  the  Bethesda  Deaconess 
Home. 

Tacoma  posten.  Tacoma,  1905-1907.  Weekly  newspaper  which  changed  its 
name  to  Puget  Sound  posten  in  1907. 

Tacoma  tribunen.  Tacoma,  1890-1902.  A  weekly  newspaper  which  merged 
with  Westra  posten  into  Westerns  tribun  in  1902. 

Templar-bladet.  Jamestown,  Brooklyn,  Collinsville,  Orange,  and  Hartford, 
1897-1921.   A  temperance  monthly. 

Templarbladet.  Templarordens  tidning.   Cleveland.  A  temperance  periodical. 

Templaren.  Brooklyn,  1887-1888.  A  temperance  monthly.  Continuation  of 
Tidens  jrdgor. 

181 


Texas  bladet.  [M]  Hutto,  Austin,  Elgin,  and  Georgetown,  1900-1909.  Became 
a  weekly  in  1908  and  was  absorbed  by  Texas  posten  in  1909. 

Texas  correspondenten.  n.  p.,  Oct.  1883.  This  is  only  an  announcement  called 
in  Swedish  "flygblad."   Only  one  number  published. 

Texas  posten.  Austin,  1896-.  This  represents  the  best  source  on  the  history 
of  the  Swedes  in  Texas. 

Thule.  New  York,  1910.   A  monthly. 

Tiden.   Providence,  1888-1890.   A  weekly  newspaper  from  1888  to  1890. 

Tidens  fragor.  New  York,  1885-1887.  A  temperance  journal  which  con- 
tinued as  Templaren. 

Tidens  tecken.  [SDA]  Brookfield,  111.,  1907-1918.  This  religious  periodical 
represented  a  continuation  of  Tidens  tecken  and  Sions  vaktare. 

Tidningen  fria  ordet.  St.  Paul,  1896-1896.  A  weekly  published  by  the  former 
owner  of  Minnesota  posten  for  a  short  time.  It  might  have  been  called 
just  Fria  ordet. 

Tidskrift.   Evangeliska  luthersk  tidskrift.    Red  Wing,  Minn.,  1877-1878. 

Tidskrift  for  Svensk  evangelisk  luthersk  kyrkohistoria  i  N.  Amerika.  Rock 
Island,  1898-1899.  Continued  as  Augustana  theological  quarterly.  This 
religious  periodical  has  unusual  historical  merits  as  a  source  on  the 
early  period  of  the  Swedish  Lutheran  Church  in  America. 

Tidskrift.  Kristlig  filosofisk  tidskrift.  For  beframjandet  af  kristlig  religions 
kunskap.   Minneapolis,  1887-1889. 

Till  werksamhet.  Wahoo,  Neb.,  and  Rock  Island,  1885-1886.  A  publication 
aimed  to  promote  the  interests  of  Luther  Academy.  Changed  name  to 
Wahoobladet  and  later  it  was  absorbed  by  Nykterhetsbasunen. 

Tjanaren.  Sylwan,  Pierce  Co.,  Wash.,  1906-1930.  A  non-sectarian  religious 
periodical  begun  in  Berwick,  la. 

Trasdockan.  Chicago,  1913-1932.  A  publication  of  the  Swedish  Engineers' 
Society  of  Chicago. 

Tribunen-nyheters  kalender  och  almanack.   Chicago,  1908,  1910.   A  calendar. 
Trons-harold.     Chicago.     A    Pentecostal    paper    which    merged    with    San- 

ningens  vittne  into  Sanningens  vittne  och  trons  h'drold  which  is  still 

being  published  by  the  Philadelphia  Church  of  Chicago. 
Trons  seger.   [B]   Minneapolis,  1888-1890. 
Trons  seger.   Manadsskrift  egnad  att  forharliga  Gud  genom  nans  barns  stad- 

fastande  i  tron  och  syndarens  fralsning.    [B]    Chicago,  1888-1890.   Moved 

to  Minneapolis  before  ceasing  publication. 
Typografer.    Worcester,  1899-1900.    A  publication  of  the  Swedish-American 

Typographical  Society  of  Worcester. 
Ungdoms-stjarnan.    [B]    Chicago  and  Minneapolis,  1907-1910.    A  periodical 

for  young  people. 
Ungdomens  sandebud.    Moline,  1889-1891.    A  periodical  for  young  people.   It 

became  Young  jieople's  inessenger  of  the  Augustana  Synod. 
Ungdomens  tidning.    Burlington,  la.,   1898-1901.    A  religious  periodical  for 

young  people. 

182 


Ungdoms-tidningen.    [B]   Chicago,  1896-1897.   A  periodical  for  young  people. 

It  was  moved  to  Burlington,  la.,  and  merged  with  Fyrbaken  into  Baneret. 

It  was  later  moved  to  Minneapolis  and  became  Minneapolis  baneret  and 

was  discontinued  in  1911. 

Ungdomens  tidning.  Chicago,  1892.  A  short  lived  Lutheran  youth  monthly. 

Ungdomstjernan.    [B]    [St.  Paul?]. 

Ungdoms-vannen.  Chicago  and  Moline,  1879-1887.  A  Lutheran  youth 
monthly  first  published  in  Chicago  and  in  1881  moved  to  Moline.  Here 
it  began  to  come  out  two  times  a  month  in  1885.  Two  years  later  it  was 
absorbed  by  Hem-vannen,  an  illustrated  weekly.  It  was  also  printed 
in  Rock  Island,  1884-1887. 

Ungdoms  vannen.  Omaha,  1893.  A  short  lived  religious  periodical  for  young 
people. 

Ungdomsvannen.  [L]  Rock  Island,  1902-1918.  This  illustrated  journal  repre- 
sents Swedish-American  cultural  interests  perhaps  better  than  any  other 
journal.  It  was  a  continuation  of  Ungdoms-vannen  No.  2.  It  was  forced 
to  discontinue  in  1918  because  of  its  strong  German  sympathies. 

Ungdoms-vannen  No.  2.  St.  Paul  and  Minneapolis,  1895-1899.  This  illus- 
trated journal  of  Augustana  ties  represents  an  effort  to  revive  the  former 
Ungdoms-vannen  published  during  1879-1887.  It  was  moved  to  Rock  Is- 
land in  1899.  Here  it  continued  as  Ungdomsvannen  after  1902. 

Ungdoms-wannen.  Illustrerad  tidskrift  for  framjande  af  sann  Gudsfruk- 
tan  .  .  .  Chicago,  Moline,  St.  Paul,  Minneapolis,  and  Rock  Island,  1879- 
1918.  An  Augustana  youth  periodical  published  in  Rock  Island  by  the 
Augustana  Book  Concern  after  1884.  Was  later  discontinued  and  revived 
again  in  1895.  Then  it  was  published  in  Minneapolis  from  1895-1899, 
and  in  Rock  Island  from  1900-1918.  Title  later  appears  to  be  Ungdoms- 
vannen. 

Upplysningens  tidehvarf.  Filosofisk  religios  tidning  for  det  svenska  folket  i 
Amerika.  Hutchinson,  Glencoe,  and  Grove  City,  Minn.,  1877-1881. 

Utah-korrespondenten.  Salt  Lake  City,  1894-1915.  A  weekly  of  great  im- 
portance as  a  source  on  the  Swedes  in  Utah. 

Utah  missionaren.   [L]   Salt  Lake  City,  1889-1891. 

Utah-posten.  Salt  Lake  City,  1900-1935.  A  Mormon  weekly  started  in  1900 
and  discontinued  in  1935.  It  is  an  important  source  on  the  Swedes  in 
Utah. 

Utah  skandinav.  Salt  Lake  City,  1874-1877. 

Vagbrytaren.   Minneapolis,  1892-1893.   A  temperance  organ. 

Vagledaren.   Chicago,  1887,  1916. 

Vaktaren.  [M]    Chicago,  1889.   Absorbed  by  Sandebudet. 

Vaktaren.    Evangelisk  luthersk  missions-   och  traktattidning.    Rock  Island 

and  Chicago,  1904-1905.   A  monthly. 
Vaktaren.    Omaha,  1868.    A  weekly  newspaper  which  continued  as  Scandias 

stjerna. 

183 


Vaktaren.  Seattle,  Portland,  and  San  Francisco,  1902-1908.  A  weekly  news- 
paper which  changed  name  to  Swedish  Pacific  press. 

Vaktare.  Zions  vaktare  och  sanningens  harold.  En  religios  politisk  vecko- 
tidning  for  kyrkan  och  hemmet.    [SDA]    Battle  Creek,  1893-1895. 

Vara  forfaders  dag.    Chicago,  1890.   Illustrated  journal. 

Varmland,  var  hembygd.  Arsskrift  utg.  av  Vermlands  nation  of  Chicago. 
Chicago,  1926-1930.   Christmas  publication. 

Vart  hem.  Evangelisk  luthersk  illustrerad  tidning.   Rock  Island,  1909-1913. 

Vart  hem.  Minneapolis,  Spring  Lake,  and  St.  Paul,  1890-1897.  This  weekly 
began  in  1890  at  Spring  Lake  and  was  moved  to  Minneapolis  toward  the 
end  of  1892.  In  1895  it  was  moved  to  St.  Paul  after  absorbing  Folkets 
nyheter. 

Vart  kyrkohem.  Evangelisk  luthersk  illustrerad  tidning.  Duquesne  and 
Munhall,  Pa.,  1904. 

Vart  land.  Jamestown,  1890-1920.  A  continuation  of  Osterns  vaktare.  An 
important  weekly  newspaper.   It  was  absorbed  by  Wart  nya  hem. 

Vart  nya  hem.  En  illustrerad  manadsskrift  egnad  at  skonliteratur  och  all- 
mannyttiga  amnen.  Chicago,  1873-1874.  An  illustrated  journal  devoted 
to  literature. 

Vart  nya  hem.  Jamestown,  1884-1891.  A  weekly  which  was  a  continuation 
of  Folkets  rost;  in  1891,  absorbed  by  Vart  land. 

Var  nya  kyrkotidning.  Traktat-  och  nyhetsblad  for  Providence-distriktet  af 
Svenska  lutherska  New  York-konferensen.  Rock  Island,  and  Pontiac,  R. 
I.,  1903-1915. 

Vasterns  missionstidning.  Tacoma  and  Seattle,  Wash.,  1921-1934.  A  monthly 
which  was  the  official  organ  of  North  Pacific  Coast  Conference  of  the 
Covenant  Church. 

Vastra  harolden.  Oakland,  Calif.,  1898.  A  weekly  newspaper  which  died 
very  shortly. 

Valkyrian.  Illustrerad  manadsskrift.  New  York,  1897-1909.  An  illustrated 
monthly  which  was  absorbed  by  Ungdomsvannen  of  Rock  Island.  It 
represents  the  best  Swedish -American  literature. 

Vasa  stjernan.  Jamestown,  1908- .  A  monthly  publication  of  the  Vasa 
Order  prior  to  1917.  It  was  also  published  at  Minneapolis  and  perhaps 
at  Chicago  and  is  still  being  published  as  Vasastjarnan  at  Fair  Lawn. 
N.  J. 

Vasastjarnan.    Julnummer  1915.    Minneapolis,  1915. 

Veckobladet.     [C]    Minneapolis,   1906-1935.    A    continuation   of   Minneapolis 

weckoblad.    Absorbed  Linnea. 
Vega.   Boston,  1889-1890.   An  illustrated  literary  monthly. 

Venersborg  nyheter.  Venersborg,  Wash.,  April,  1911.  Published  by  Swedish 
Land  and  Colonization  Co. 

Verdandi.  New  York,  1912.  A  small  temperance  publication  which  was  to 
be  published  two  times  a  month.  Doubtful  if  it  survived  its  first  num- 
ber, April  11,  1912. 

184 


Vesterlandet.  Minneapolis  and  Stillwater,  1894-1898.  A  continuation  of 
Wagbrytaren,  a  Good  Templar  organ.  A  weekly  newspaper  which  was 
started  in  Minneapolis  and  moved  to  Stillwater  in  1896. 

Vestern-amerikanen.  Minneapolis,  1912.  A  weekly  which  was  a  continua- 
tion of  Odalmannen. 

Vestern.  Kansas  City,  Denver,  and  Omaha,  1885.  A  weekly  which  was  a 
continuation  of  Svenska  hdrolden  and  Colorado  posten;  later  absorbed 
by  Svenska  amerikanaren. 

Vestern  svenska  tribun.  Omaha,  1903-1904.  A  weekly  newspaper  which 
represented  a  continuation  of  Lincoln  svenska  tribun.  It  was  shortly 
absorbed  by  Omaha  posten. 

Vestern.  (Svensk  frisinnad  veckotidning.)  Eureka,  San  Francisco,  and 
Oakland,  1907-1909. 

Vestkusten.  San  Francisco  and  Oakland,  1887-1952.  This  weekly  news- 
paper started  as  Ebenezer,  a  local  Augustana  parish  paper.  After  only 
one  number  the  name  was  changed  to  Vestkusten,  which  became  a 
political  newspaper.  It  has  been  published  continuously  in  San  Fran- 
cisco except  for  April -August  of  1906  when  it  was  published  in  Oak- 
land.  It  is  a  most  important  source  on  Swedes  in  California. 

Vestra  harolden.    Oakland,  1898.    A  weekly  newspaper. 

Vestra  sandebudet.  San  Francisco  and  Oakland,  1889-1914.  A  weekly  news- 
paper.   Sometimes  spelled  Vdstra  sandebudet. 

Vid  aftonbrasan.  Romantidning  for  den  svenska  befolkningen  i  Amerika. 
Chicago,  1876-1877.    A  fiction  magazine. 

Vikingen.  Chicago  and  Mount  Morris,  1899-.  A  publication  of  the  Inde- 
pendent Order  of  Vikings  published  at  Mount  Morris  since  1912. 

Vikingen.   Jamestown,  1876.   A  humorous  periodical.   Very  few  copies. 

Vikingen  julnummer,  1908.    Seattle,  1908. 

Vikingen.  Moline  and  Omaha,  1894-1905.  A  competitor  of  Nya  pressen  but 
in  1895  urged  subscribers  to  subscribe  to  Nya  pressen.  Moved  to  Omaha 
for  a  couple  of  numbers  in  1896  then  back  to  Moline,  and  again  to 
Omaha. 

Viking.  Fremont,  Neb.,  1906-1907.  A  superior  illustrated  monthly  periodical. 

Vinter-ros.  Berattelser  for  barn  och  ungdom.  Chicago,  1907,  1913-1915.  An 
annual. 

Vinterrosor.  Illustrerad  kalender.  [M]  Chicago,  1903-1912.  An  excellent 
illustrated  calendar. 

Vintersol.  Rock  Island  and  Brooklyn,  1924- .  A  monthly  published  for  the 
Swedish  Augustana  Home  for  the  Aged  in  Brooklyn. 

Vintervy   fran   Ostervag.    Illustrerad  kalender.    Worcester,   1912. 

Wagbrytaren.  Minneapolis  and  St.  Paul,  1891-  1894.  Official  organ  of  the 
Good  Templars.   It  continued  as  Vesterlandet  in  1894. 

Wahoo-bladet.  [L]  Wahoo,  Neb.,  1888-1890.  A  monthly  temperance  pub- 
lication which  merged  with  Nykterhetsbasunen. 

Wart  hem.  Minneapolis,  Spring  Lake,  and  St.  Paul,  1891-1894.  A  weekly 
newspaper.  Sometimes  spelled  Vdrt  hem. 

185 


Wart  land  och  folk.  Chicago,  1886-1888.  A  weekly  which  was  a  continua- 
tion of  Nad  och  sanning;  in  1888,  absorbed  by  Hemvannen. 

Wart  nya  hem.  Jamestown,  1884-1891.  This  weekly  newspaper  was  a  con- 
tinuation of  Folkets  rbst.  .It  was  in  turn  absorbed  by  Vart  land. 

Wart  nya  hem.  Kansas  City,  1871-1872.  A  weekly  newspaper  which  changed 
name  to  Western. 

Wart  nya  hem.   Kearney,  Neb.,  1877.   A  weekly  newspaper. 

Western.  Eureka,  San  Francisco,  and  San  Jose,  1907-1909.  A  weekly  news- 
paper. 

Western.  Kansas  City,  Mo.,  1872.  A  weekly  newspaper  which  was  a  con- 
tinuation of  Wart  nya  hem. 

Western  Lutheran.    Olympia,  1937-.    A  monthly. 

Western  news.  Denver,  1941- .  A  weekly  newspaper  published  in  English 
as  a  continuation  of  Westerns  nyheter. 

Westerns  missionsblad.    [C]  San  Francisco,  1892-1895. 

Westerns  nyheter.  Denver,  1928-1941.  A  weekly  newspaper  which  is  an 
important  source  on  the  Swedes  of  Colorado.  It  is  a  continuation  of 
Svensk-amerikanska  western  since  1928. 

Western  tribun.  Seattle,  1902-1903.  A  weekly  newspaper  which  was  a  con- 
tinuation of  Westra  posten  and  Tacoma  tribunen;  in  1903,  name  changed 
to  Pacific  tribune. 

Westra  posten.   Omaha,  1879-1883.    A  weekly  newspaper. 

Westra  posten.  Tacoma  and  Seattle,  1891-1902.  A  weekly  newspaper  which 
merged  with  Tacoma  tribunen  into  Western  tribun  in  1902. 

Wisconsin  svenska  tribun.  Superior,  1890-1904.  A  weekly  newspaper  which 
changed  name  to  Svenska  amerikanska  tribunen. 

Worcester-bladet.    Worcester,  1890. 

Worcester  veckoblad.  Worcester,  1886-1887.  A  weekly  newspaper  which 
continued  as  Skandinavia. 

Worker.  Moline,  1890.  A  political  campaign  paper  written  in  both  English 
and  Swedish. 

Young  Lutheran  companion.  Rock  Island,  1907-1911.  A  continuation  of 
Augustana  journal  and  became  Lutheran  companion. 

Young  observer.  Rock  Island,  1892-1894.  A  literary  monthly  published  to 
promote  the  Augustana  University  Association.  Became  the  organ  of 
the  Alumni  Association. 

Young  people's  messenger.  Moline,  1901-1911.  A  continuation  of  Ung- 
domens  sandebud. 

Young  people's  beacon,  1929.  A  monthly  published  by  the  Young  People's 
Covenant  of  Massachusetts  and  Northern  New  England. 

Zions  baner.  Evangelisk  luthersk  missions-  och  familjetidning.  Galesburg, 
Keokuk,  and  Knoxville,  1871-1879.  Chief  organ  of  the  Ansgarii  Synod. 
Absorbed  by  Chicago  bladet.  Sometimes  spelled  Sions-baner.  It  rep- 
resented a  group  which  affiliated  with  the  General  Synod. 

Zions-stjarnan.  Salt  Lake  City,  1896-1906.  A  Lutheran  anti-Mormon  peri- 
odical. 

186 


Zions  vaktare.  [B]  Chicago,  1871.  A  monthly  discontinued  after  the  Chi- 
cago fire;  mentioned  in  Zions  vakt  of  1874  which  was  a  continuation  of 
Zions  vaktare. 

Zions  vaktare.  Chicago,  1892.   A  religious  periodical. 

Zions  wakt.  [B]  Chicago,  1874-1876.  A  monthly  which  was  a  continuation 
of  Zions  vaktare.   In  1875  it  was  moved  to  Minneapolis. 

Zions  wakt  torn  och  harold  af  Kristi  narvaro.  Pittsburgh,  [1884].  A  trans- 
lation of  the  periodical  published  by  C.  T.  Russel.  It  is  unknown  how 
often  a  Swedish  translation  was  published.  At  any  rate  it  must  have 
happened  very  irregularly. 


187 


Chapter  Ten 


ARCHIVE  MATERIALS 

The  student  of  emigration  from  Sweden  and  immigration  to  America 
should  turn  his  attention  to  America  letters  and  a  mass  of  primary  sources 
which  do  not  lend  themselves  to  a  ready  classification.  These  sources  are 
to  be  found  chiefly  in  a  few  libraries  or  archives  in  Sweden  and  America. 
In  Sweden  these  consist  of  the  Royal  Library,  Nordiska  Museet,  Riksar- 
kivet,  the  three  university  libraries,  and  the  provincial  archives  as  well  as 
the  archives  of  Bethel  Seminary  of  Stockholm  and  other  libraries.  In  Amer- 
ica these  sources  are  found  represented  in  a  richer  amount  at  the  National 
Archives,  the  Augustana  College  Library,  the  Bethel  College  and  Seminary 
Library,  the  North  Park  College  Library,  the  Gustavus  Adolphus  College 
Library,  the  Minnesota  State  Historical  Library,  etc. 

The  manuscript  collection  of  Swedish-Americana  at  the  Royal  Library 
consists  essentially  of  letters  written  by  Ernst  Skarstedt,  Oliver  A.  Linder. 
and  Johan  A.  Enander  to  Bernard  Lundstedt  who  had  sought  information 
from  these  men  while  preparing  his  guide  to  the  Swedish-American  press. 
The  Royal  Library  has  an  interesting  collection  of  pictures  from  "little 
Sweden  in  America"  as  well  as  a  collection  of  "almanacks"  since  1871.  A 
number  of  posters  and  flysheets  prepared  by  steamship  companies  and  land 
agents  are  also  to  be  found  though  these  are  not  classified  or  catalogued. 

Nordiska  Museet  has  a  small  collection  of  America  letters  and  a  number 
of  pictures.  This  collection  of  "Swedish -Americana"  was  begun  by  Gunnar 
Granberg. 

Riksarkivet  has  the  reports  of  the  Swedish  legation  in  Washington,  D.  C, 
as  well  as  the  correspondence  of  the  consular  service  and  letters  written  by 
immigrants  to  the  legation  and  consuls.  Another  important  collection  of  the 
department  of  foreign  affairs  is  the  one  which  deals  with  inheritances.  It 
has  seldom  been  used  by  the  student  of  emigration. 

The  university  libraries  of  Uppsala,  Gothenburg,  and  Lund  have  collec- 
tions of  "Swedish-Americana,"  but  they  have  few  America  letters.  Of 
course,  the  Peter  Wieselgren  collection  at  the  Gothenburg  Stadsbibliotek 
contains  a  number  of  letters  from  Erland  Carlsson,  L.  P.  Esbjorn,  T.  N. 
Hasselquist,  P.  Sjoblom  and  others.  The  Gustaf  Unonius  library  has  been 
turned  over  to  the  University  of  Uppsala  Library. 

In  the  Uppsala  Landsarkiv  are  to  be  found  among  other  things  the  Anna 
Lindewall  collection  of  letters,  clippings,  and  other  materials  pertaining  to 
the  Eric  Jansonist  movement  in  Sweden  and  the  Bishop  Hill  Colony  in  Illi- 
nois. The  many  provincial  archives  and  parish  rectorates  preserve  the  im- 
portant local  church  records  which  might  be  of  interest. 

The  Bethel  Seminary  of  Stockholm  has  a  collection  of  letters  to  and  from 
J.  A.  Edgren,  R.  E.  Jeansson,  Fredrick  O.  Nilsson,  Andrew  Norelius,  Gustaf 
Palmquist,  Anders  Wiberg  and  others.  Gunnar  Westin  published  some  of 
these  letters  in  his  Ur  den  svenska  folkvackelsens  historia  och  tankev'drld. 

188 


The  collection  contains  also  reports  of  Baptist  leaders  and  colporteurs  to 
the  American  Baptist  Publication  Society  during  1856-1866  and  to  the  Ameri- 
can Baptist  Missionary  Union  during  1866-1898. 

Riksforeningen  has  a  miscellaneous  library  collection  at  its  headquarters 
in  Gothenburg.  It  is  not  nearly  as  valuable  as  the  private  library  of  Otto 
Robert  Landelius  of  Grabo.  This  is  perhaps  the  most  extensive  "biographi- 
cal" library  on  Swedes  in  America  found  anywhere. 

The  archives  and  libraries  in  America  are  more  rewarding  to  the  stu- 
dents who  seek  primary  sources  on  the  Swedish  immigrants.  The  National 
Archives  of  Washington,  D.  C.  contains  invaluable  material  on  Swedish  im- 
migration to  America  in  form  of  reports  of  ministers  and  consuls,  materials 
described  by  Florence  Janson.  (See  bibliography.)  But  the  most  extensive 
collection  of  materials  on  the  Swedes  in  America  is  to  be  found  at  Augus- 
tana  College. 

At  the  Augustana  College  Library  are  to  be  found  the  very  valuable 
newspaper  and  periodical  clippings  belonging  to  the  Linder  Collection  and 
the  Swan  scrap  book  materials.  These  contain  information  on  almost  any 
Swede  in  America  of  any  importance  prior  to  1935.  Here  are  deposited  the 
records  of  the  Augustana  Synod  and  the  Augustana  College  and  Theologi- 
cal Seminary.  The  records  of  the  church  and  the  college  are  of  almost 
every  conceivable  description.  They  include  the  papers  of  L.  G.  Abraham  - 
son,  G.  A.  Brandelle,  Erland  Carlsson,  P.  A.  Cederstam,  L.  P.  Esbjorn,  T. 
N.  Hasselquist,  O.  Olsson,  Erik  Norelius,  S.  P.  A.  Lindahl,  Jonas  Swens- 
son,  O.  C.  T.  Andren,  Gustav  Andreen,  etc.  There  are  also  letters  written 
by  prominent  laymen  of  the  church  such  as  Jonas  Engberg  and  Johan  A. 
Enander. 

In  addition  there  are  numerous  autobiographies,  diaries,  reports  of  com- 
mittees, financial  records,  pastoral  reports,  original  minutes  of  the  synod 
and  conferences,  historical  accounts  of  churches,  constitutions,  and  all  the 
records  of  the  college  and  the  seminary.  Besides  these  documentary  sources 
are  vast  amounts  of  materials  which  have  not  been  classified.  New  ma- 
terials and  collections  are  being  constantly  added.  Recently  Oscar  G.  Eric- 
son  of  Rock  Island  presented  a  small  but  valuable  collection  to  the  library 
consisting  of  materials  pertaining  to  the  Swedes  in  the  I.O.G.T.  in  America. 

The  Bethel  College  and  Seminary  Library  has  less  materials  than  Au- 
gustana. Yet  a  complete  listing  of  specific  items  found  at  Bethel  Seminary 
in  form  of  primary  sources  would  cover  several  pages.  These  sources  in- 
clude Bethel  Academy  and  College  annual  reports,  minutes  of  committees, 
financial  records,  reports  of  committees,  notes  and  manuscripts  on  the  his- 
tory of  Swedish  Baptists,  unpublished  minutes  of  conferences  and  churches 
as  well  as  the  papers  of  C.  G.  Lagergren,  J.  A.  Edgren,  Eric  Sandell,  F.  O. 
Nilsson,  and  many  others.  It  contains  a  number  of  diaries  of  which  those 
of  Olof  Peterson  (1860-1870) ;  F.  O.  Nilsson  (1855-1865) ;  and  Andrew  Peter- 
son (1855-1898)  are  the  most  important.  There  are  also  to  be  found  brief 
histories  of  churches  in  manuscript  form.  The  library  contains  a  large  col- 
lection of  jubilee  publications  of  local  churches  and  various  printed  records 
and  reports.  At  neither  the  Royal  Library  nor  Augustana  College  are  to 
be  found  the  catalogues  of  Bethel  College  and  Seminary  nor  its  Bulletins. 
These  would  be  found  at  Bethel. 

The  North  Park  College  Collections  or  the  Collections  of  the  Covenant 

189 


Historical  Commission  compare  favorably  with  the  historical  collections  at 
Bethel  College.  They  include  the  papers  of  Charles  Victor  Bowman,  A.  L. 
Skoog,  Erik  August  Skogsberg,  David  Nyvall,  C.  B.  Johnson,  C.  E.  Back- 
strom,  A.  G.  Nelson,  Axel  Mellander,  Nils  W.  Lund,  C.  A.  Bjork,  E.  G. 
Hjerpe,  Henning  Gustafson,  A.  T.  Frykman,  Carl  Hanson,  and  biographies, 
minutes,  financial  records,  etc. 

At  Gustavus  Adolphus  College  Library  a  collection  of  important  docu- 
ments is  to  be  found.  Most  of  these  are  related  to  the  Minnesota  Con- 
ference and  to  Gustavus  Adolphus  College  and  include  the  papers  of  the 
presidents  of  the  Minnesota  conference  and  those  of  the  college  presidents. 
E.  Norelius  papers  for  the  years  1895-1898  are  to  be  found  here.  There 
are  also  a  large  number  of  obituaries  and  biographies,  minutes  of  the  Min- 
nesota Conference,  minutes  of  the  board  of  directors  of  the  college,  pastoral 
reports,  recommendations,  records  and  reports  including  those  of  the  Au- 
gustana  Missionary  Society,  1885-1920,  financial  reports  of  the  Mission 
Board,  1868-1870,  1915-24  etc.,  the  Augustana  Church  Building  fund,  and 
the  records  of  Minnesota  College  including  the  papers  of  Frank  Nelson. 

At  Bethany  College  and  Upsala  College  few  significant  documents  are  to 
be  found  except  those  of  local  importance  and  pertaining  to  the  respective 
colleges.  At  Bethany  College  are  to  be  found  documents  pertaining  to  the 
origin  of  the  Swedish  settlement  at  Lindsborg  and  the  papers  of  Carl  A. 
Swensson. 

The  Swedish  Methodist  Historical  Library  of  Evanston,  Illinois,  has  one 
of  the  smaller  collections  of  documents  and  manuscripts  including  minutes 
of  various  organizations  within  the  Swedish  Methodist  Conferences,  records 
of  the  Epworth  Society,  the  N.  O.  Westergren  papers  including  his  diary, 
financial  records,  ledgers,  cashbooks,  abstracts  and  similar  documents. 

If  this  bibliography  were  consulted  on  newspapers  and  periodicals,  it 
would  be  discovered  that  the  catalogues  and  bulletins  of  most  of  the  col- 
leges and  seminaries  above  have  not  been  preserved  by  the  Royal  Library 
or  Augustana  College.  These  are  important  primary  sources  for  which  one 
would  have  to  go  to  the  respective  colleges. 

While  the  archives  at  Augustana  College  would  provide  a  great  deal  of 
information  on  the  general  contributions  of  the  Swedish  immigrants,  the 
archives  of  the  other  colleges  would  provide  almost  no  material  of  interest 
outside  of  the  church  of  such  a  college. 

The  American  Swedish  Historical  Museum  in  Philadelphia  should  have 
much  material  of  interest.  Attention  is  especially  called  to  its  John  Ericsson 
Collection. 

The  Mormons  in  Utah  have  considerable  material  on  Scandinavians  in  the 
State  of  Utah  and  the  archives  of  the  Utah  Historical  Society  should  be 
consulted.  Here  is  to  be  found  a  typed  copy  of  William  Mulder's  master  s 
thesis  entitled  Utah's  Nordic  Language  Press:  Aspect  and  Instrument  of 
Culture.  The  New  York  State  Historical  Society  has  fairly  recently  received 
a  Jenny  Lind  Collection  which  might  have  a  definite  interest.  Various  pub- 
lic libraries  might  be  in  possession  of  material  of  interest.  The  New  Ulm 
City  Library  has  a  Governor  John  A.  Johnson  Collection. 

The  Minnesota  State  Historical  Society  has  undoubtedly  one  of  the  best 
collections  of  archive  material  on  the  Swedes.  This  collection  is  largely 
founded  upon  the  Swedish  Historical  Society  of  America's  Collections  which 

190 


are  permanently  stored  in  the  Library  of  the  Minnesota  State  Historical 
Society.  Any  other  material  found  in  this  library  would  deal  almost  en- 
tirely with  Swedes  in  Minnesota. 

The  major  items  in  the  collections  of  the  Minnesota  State  Historical  So- 
ciety should  be  mentioned.  The  Christopher  C.  Andrews  papers,  1854-1922, 
contain  documents  and  papers  especially  related  to  economics  and  politics. 
The  Edward  Lafot  and  family  papers,  1833-1933,  are  also  of  importance  as 
are  the  Magnus  Johnson  papers,  1933-1934.  The  John  Lind  papers,  1870- 
1933,  are  also  to  be  found  there.  The  complicated  problem  of  source  classi- 
fication within  any  such  "narrow"  lines  as  those  of  this  bibliography  could 
be  easily  illustrated  by  Stephenson's  study  of  John  Lind.  This  study  brought 
Stephenson  into  contact  with  the  Ignatius  Donnelly  papers,  William  W.  Fol- 
well  papers,  Knute  Nelson  papers,  James  A.  Tawney  papers,  and  William 
Jennings  Bryan  papers.  Then  there  are  the  Axel  Lindegard  papers,  1861- 
1931,  which  contain  material  of  interest  on  both  religion  and  politics.  The 
Hans  Mattson  and  his  family  papers,  1855-1939,  are  not  very  complete. 
Andrew  Peterson  papers  cover  the  period,  1854-1931.  The  Henry  George 
Teigan  papers,  1916-1941,  include  correspondence  with  a  number  of  Swedes 
active  in  Minnesota  politics  such  as  Elmer  A.  Benson,  Ernest  Lundeen, 
and  Magnus  Johnson.  The  Andrew  A.  Stomberg  papers,  1895-1945,  contain 
letters,  newspaper  clippings  and  articles  about  Swedes  in  America.  The  Ed- 
ward Sundell  papers,  1882-1926,  are  chiefly  of  interest  for  the  light  they 
throw  on  Chauncey  Depew  and  New  York  politics. 

Victor  E.  Lawson  has  collected  over  a  period  of  many  years  considerable 
material  on  the  Swedes,  especially  in  Minneosta,  and  has  established  a 
special  home  for  this  collection  at  Willmar.  The  Lawson  collection  contains 
relatively  few  manuscripts,  though  his  own  papers  are  of  importance  as 
he  played  an  important  role  in  the  history  of  Minnesota  as  a  politician 
and  newspaperman. 

The  Knox  College  Library  has  the  Philip  J.  Stoneberg  papers,  consist- 
ing of  numerous  materials,  largely  pertaining  to  the  Bishop  Hill  colony. 

The  historian  is  truly  amazed  as  he  examines  the  primary  and  secondary 
sources  dealing  with  the  role  of  the  Swedish  immigrants  in  America,  a 
group  which  constitutes  slightly  more  than  one  per  cent  of  our  total  popu- 
lation. He  feels  a  sense  of  great  indebtedness  to  those  men  and  women, 
whose  roles  have  often  been  unsung,  who  gathered  and  preserved  the  ma- 
terials which  constitute  the  major  portion  of  this  bibliography.  Ke  regrets 
the  failure  of  others  to  share  in  this  responsibility  and  the  inability  of  the 
sons  and  daughters  of  Swedish  immigrants  to  co-operate  in  establishing 
and  maintaining  a  central  depository  for  the  records  of  their  parents  and 
grandparents.  Augustana  College  has  long  sought  to  serve  as  such  a  cen- 
tral depository,  but  with  the  passing  of  each  generation  the  college  has 
found  that  this  service  is  more  difficult  to  render. 


191 


20.  Regional  Conflicts  around  Geneva.  By  Adda  B.  Bozeman  (1949) 
(for  exchange  only;  trade  edition  for  sale  bv  Stanford  University 
Press,  $5.00) 

21.  Geology  of  the  Northwest  Flank  of  the  Gros  Ventre  Mountains, 
Wyoming.    By  Frank  Albert  Swenson   (1949)    1.50 

22.  The  Swedish  Theatre  of  Chicago,  1868-1950.  By  Henriette  C.  K. 
Naeseth   (1951)    3.00 

23.  Structural  Geology  and  Physiography  of  the  Northern  End  of  the 
Teton  Range,  Wyoming.   By  Rudolph  William  Edmund   (1951)    1.50 

24.  The  Resistance  of  the  Air  to  Stone -dropping  Meteors.    By  Harry 

E.  Nelson    (1953)    1.00 

25.  The  Port  of  Milwaukee.    By  Edward  Hamming    (1953)    2.00 

26.  The  John  Hauberg  Historical  Essays.  By  O.  Fritiof  Ander,  ed. 
(1954)     2.50 

27.  The  Cultural  Heritage  of  the  Swedish  Immigrant:  Selected  Refer- 
ences.   By  O.  Fritiof  Ander   (1956)    3.00 


0 


UNIVERSITY  OF  ILLINOIS  URBANA 

016  3252485AN2C  C001 

THE  CULTURAL  HERITAGE  OF  THE  SWEDISH  IMM 


