Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  tliis  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  in  forming  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http: //books  .google  .com/I 


HARVARD  COLLEGE 

LIBRARY 


THE  GIFT  OF 

JOHN  TUCKER  MURRAY 
CLASS  ow  tas» 

PROFESSOR  OP  ENGLISH 


CURIOSITIES 


LITERATURE 


I.    D'ISRAELI 


LONDON 

<;E0RGE  ROUTLEDGE  and  sons,  limited 

Broadway,  Ludgate  Hill 

Manchester  and  New  York 

1893 


KH^ 


HARViflDCOiLCi.E  LIBRABY 


RODTLEDGE'S  POPULAR  UBRARY 

STANDARD    AUTHORS. 


EMERSON'S  WORK&    With  Sleel  PonraiU 

lempri£re's  classical  dictionary. 

CARLYLES  FRENCH  REVOLUTION.  With  Portfmlt. 
BURNS'S  COMPLETE  POETICAL  WORKS.     Edited 

by  Chaklis  Kent.  With  16  (ull-page  Plales. 
THE  SPECTATOR.  Edilcd  by  HlHBV  1  Iori.ky. 
MOORE'S  COMPLETE  POETICAL  WORKS.   Edited 

by  Charles  Kent.  Wilh  iG  full-page  Plates. 
CHARLES   KNIGHT'S  SHAKSPERE.      With  Potlnit 

and  PUtei  by  Sir  John  Gilbert,  R.A. 
WALKERS  RHYMING  DICTIONARY. 
HOLMES'S  ■'  BREAKFAST  TABLE"  SERIES.     With 

Steel  Ponrait. 
THE     ARABIAN      NIGHTS'     ENTERTAINMENTS. 

Wilh  16  full-page  Plales. 
MACKAYS  A   THOUSAND  AND    ONE    GEMS    OF 
POETRY.    Wilh  lull-page  Plates. 


FRANCIS  DOUCE,  ESQ. 


THESE  VOLUMES 


X)VER   OF  LITERATURE, 
n   Hl$  FRIKND 


I.  D'ISRAELI. 


MEMOIR  OF  THE  LATE  ISAAC  DISRAELI. 


Descended  from  ■  line  of  Jewish  merchants  who  hul  dwelt  in  the  "  Home  of  the 
Ocean  "  during  the  proud  dajrs  when  Venice  remained,  at  least  in  name,  the  queen 
of  the  Adriatic,  the  father  of  the  late  Mi.  Isaac  D'Israeli  hroughc  with  him  10 
England  a  store  of  historical  associations  and  traditions  meet  nurture  for  '*  a  poetic 
child,"  and  equally  calculated  to  incite  the  imaginative  to  realise  Iheir  conceptions 
omantic  liction,  and  the  inquisitive  to  ascertain  their  realities  by  sober  investiga- 
tion. About  (he  lime  that  the  first  D'Israeli  settled  in  England,  the  coutilry  was 
convulsed  by  one  of  those  popular  alarms,  the  result  of  combined  fraud  and  fanati- 
cism which  appear  like  periodical  visitations  in  our  history.  A  law  for  the  naturali- 
~on  of  the  Jews  had  been  passed  with  little  opposition  by  both  houses  of  parlia- 
it,  and  had  received  the  ready  support  of  the  most  distinguished  prelates  on  the 
episcopal  bench.  An  alaim  for  the  church  and  for  religion  was  however  produced 
among  the  inferior  det^,  and  principally,  as  Walpole  assures  us,  among  the 
country  parsons."  The  alarm  was  as  senseless  and  the  Cry  as  absurd  as  On 
casioti  of  Dr.  Sacheverell's  trial,  when  a  very  stupid  and  very  malevolent  sermon 
IS  sufFicient  to  set  the  whole  coimtry  in  a  Hame.  It  was  proclaimed  from  cot 
less  pulpits  thai,  if  the  Jews  were  naluialiied  in  Britain,  the  country  became  liable 
he  curses  pronounced  by  prophecy  against  Jerusalem  and  the  Holy  Land.  The 
logic  of  this  argument  is  of  course  as  defective  as  its  charity,  but  the  multitude  iii 
liable  to  be  deluded  by  confident  and  repeated  assertion  ;  it  also  happened  that  al 
time  suspicions  were  entertained  of  hostile  designs  from  France,  and  though  the 
Jews  could  not  be  associated  with  the  French  by  any  show  of  reason,  they  wer 
linked  to  the  enemy  by  a  very  tolerable  rhyme.  Every  dead  wall  in  the  kingdon 
exhibited  in  varied  orthography  the  delectable  couplet, 


Some  of  the  bishops  adopted  towards  their  insubordiiute  curates  the  same  coi 
that  indiscreet  parents  employ  to  lull  the  tumults  of  the  nuTseiy  when  they  profliir 
cakes  as  a  bribe  to  stop  crying.  They  resolved  that  it  would  be  wise  to  make  s< 
mcessions  to  clamour,  and  they  joined  in  a  representation  to  the  minister  which 
t  forth  that  they  by  no  means  vouched  for  the  tnith  of  the  popular  calumnies 
directed  against  the  Jews,  that  they  had  not  even  examined  the  evidence  on  which 
such  tales  of  scandal  were  founded,  but  that  believing  the  recent  law  to  be  oflieniiva 


MEMOtR  or  TSS  LATE  ISAAC  ITISRAELl. 

uid  >l>rming  to  many  of  youT  good  Mil  of  people,  they  recomineDded  the  piemier 
to  undo  his  own  act,  uid  to  repeal  the  obnoxioui  law  ai  early  a*  possible.  The 
Duke  of  Newcastle,  who  then  held  the  office  of  prime  mmuter,  had  none  of  the 
firmness  of  the  late  Sir  Robert  Peel  or  Earl  Rnuell :  he  yielded  to  the  clamour, 
partly  from  natural  timidity,  and  partly  because  being  raised  at  the  close  of  a  Par- 
liament, he  was  afraid  of  its  effects  at  a  geneial  election. 

Twelve  years  after  this  strange  exhibition  of  popular  delusion  and  ministerial 
weakness,  Isaac  D'liraeli  was  bom  at  Enfield  in  the  month  of  May,  1766.  But 
though  the  Jewish  Natuialization  Bill  had  been  repealed,  the  passions  and  preju- 
dices to  which  it  gave  vigour  did  not  subside' for  nearly  half  a  century  ;  indeed  the 
Jews  narrowly  escaped  being  involved  with  the  Roman  Catholics  in  the  outrages 
perpetrated  by  the  Protestant  mob  of  Lord  Geoi^  Gordon.  The  accounts  which 
he  heard  in  childhood  of  the  calumnies  levelled  against  his  name  and  nation,  and  of 
the  political  disatHlities  to  which  his  (unity  continued  subject  because  an  imbecile 
jster  had  neither  the  sense  nor  the  couiage  to  withstand  popular  delusion  and 
popular  clamour,  produced  an  effect  on  Mr.  D'laraeli's  mind  which  influenced  his 
whole  literary  career.  So  far  from  adopting  the  aphorism  vex  fofuii  vox  Dei,  he 
would  much  sooner  have  aXAvex  pofuii  vox  diaboli ;  the  very  prevalence  of  any  u 
[intent  or  opinion  would  with  him  have  been  a  reason  for  viewing  it  with  suspicion. 

AU  the  traditions  of  his  race  and  all  the  reminiscences  of  his  family  tended  to 
strengthen  such  a  feeling.  The  people  had  no  voice  in  the  Hebrew  commonwealth  ; 
law  was  dictated  to  Ihem  by  the  inspired  prophet,  the  consecrated  priest,  or  the 
anointed  king  1  authority  was  not  only  the  basis  of  their  social  order,  bul  it  entered 
the  minute  detail  of  alt  their  institutions  ;  that  confession  of  faith  which  ever 
believing  child  of  Abraham  learns  to  lisp  in  his  cradle  commences  with  a  divine 
demand  Cor  implicit  submission  and  obedience.  "Hear,  O  Israel,"  is  not  the 
beginning  of  a  creed  suited  to  the  partisans  of  a  democracy. 

The  t^^tions  of  Venice  were  equally  calcnlaled  to  alienate  Isaac  D'lsraeli's 
mind  from  the  parties  and  the  opinions  that  found  favour  with  the  populace. 
Aristotle  mentions  some  ancient  oligarchy,  the  members  of  which,  on  admissioi 
o  office,  bound  themselves  by  an  oath  lo  do  all  (he  injury  to  the  democracy  in  their 
power.  Although  the  senators  of  Venice  did  not  swear  to  ihe  performance  of  any 
such  obligation  they  adopted  the  same  course  by  a  design  infinitely  more  binding 
than  all  the  tests  that  human  ingenuity  could  devise.  Their  first  principle  of 
government  was  that  a  mob  was  a  restrained  and  caged  tiger,  and  that,  on  any 
relaxation  of  these  checks  and  restraints,  the  animal  would  spring  at  the  throats  of 

is  curious  to  observe  how  general  and  how  influential  these  feeling)  wen 
the  close  of  the  last  centuty.  In  tpile  of  the  procUmation  of  "  Free  and  equal 
rights  to  all  men,"  by  the  republicaiu  of  France,  the  ]t.tii  throughout  Europe 
almost  univcisally  adhered  lo  the  cause  of  monarchy  and  social  order.  If  they 
;  not  absolutely  Tories  they  were  at  least  very  strenuous  Conservatives  ;  as  men 
they  loved  "liberty,"  bul  as  tlie  sons  of  a  privilq^  race  they  suspected  "eqtiality," 
and  as  «  peculiar  people  they  thmnk  from  "  fiatemity."    Another  reason  for  thii 


MEMOm  OF  THE  LATE  ISAAC  D'ISSASlt.  Tif 

II  probably  the  hoTTfir  with  which  they  were  inipii«d  \sj  the  diiing  bluphemiei 
of  the  athdttt  of  Fmacc  Revoltiiig  u  iheM  exceues  were  to  evecy  man  of  right 
feeling,  thejr  filled  the  mind  of  the  Jew  with  &  honor  perfectly  indescribable,  and 

nen  of  other  creedi  and  ncei  quite  inconcf  ivable.  For,  the  Jew  ii  the  d 
religious  of  inen  ;  to  him  the  Supreme  Being  ii  not  roerel]'  the  Sovereign  of  Ihe 
muvene,  bnt  alio  aad  more  etpecialljr  the  Tutelary  Deitjr  of  hi*  race,  "  the  God  of 
Abraham,  of  Inac,  and  of  Jacob."  The  inianitjr  which  would  dethrone  Jehovah, 
the  God  of  Iirael,  and  etect,  amid  drunken  and  fisnCic  orgies,  an  allar  to  the  god- 
E  of  mio^  wu  in  his  eyes  at  once  the  most  atrocious  of  ciimes  and  the  greatest 
of  personal  insults.  Hence,  during  the  wars  of  the  Coalition  against  revolutionary 
France,  no  loldien  fought  with  more  desperate  energies  against  the  repvbUcan  armies 
than  the  Jewish  regiments  in  the  service  of  Prussia  ;  no  motteyed  men  were  more 
eager  to  support  Pitt  by  subscribing  to  loans  than  the  Jewish  capitalists  of  London  -, 
ind  no  commercial  body  evinced  such  sympathy  for  the  fallen  fortunes  of  Austiia 
Ls  the  Jewish  banken  and  merchants  of  Germany.  These  ptedilectiotu  for  monarchy 
and  labordination  of  classes  are  still,  chaiscteriilic  of  the  race ;  more  than 
pamphleteer,  indeed,  has  stigmatised  the  Jews  as  inveterate  partisans  of  despotism 


t  is  hardly  necessary  to  say  that  there  was  but  a  very  scant  share  of  sympathy 
ffeen  the  French  and  the  Venetian  republics.  Indeed  they  wera  founded  on 
such  antagoiuRic  principles  that  collision  was  inevitable  whenever  ihcy  were  brought 
'  cootacL  Hence  Napoleoik,  who  retained  many  of  his  old  principles  as  a 
Jacobin,  long  after  he  had  ceased  to  be  a  republican,  never  spoke  of  the  Venetian 
State  bnt  with  abhorrence,  and  the  only  part  of  the  proceediitgs  of  the  Congress  of 
Vienna  on  which  he  bestowed  approbation  was  the  decree  which  blotted  the  Vene- 
tian oligarchy  from  the  list  of  the  powers  of  Europe. 

The  philosophers  who  declare  that  "  the  child  is  Ihe  father  of  Ihe  man  "  do  not 
mean  that  the  whole  of  a  man's  future  character,  conduct,  and  career  are  | 
destined  and  predetermined  by  any  direct  system  of  education  ;  but  they  do  m 
that  the  appetencies  and  tendencies  of  his  intellectual  faculties  are  irresistibly 
moulded,  formed,  and  directed  by  ihe  atmosphere  of  moral  inlluence  which  ■ 
ids  his  childhood.  It  is  for  this  reason  that  we  have  endeavoured  to  trace  iho 
lenca  most  directly  operative  on  the  mind  of  the  subject  of  this  brief  mem 
:  we  have  directed  attention  to  his  alienation  from  the  populace  on  account  of 
the  intuit  and  injury  legislatively  inflicted  on  his  race  and  family,  a  little  before  his 
birth,  by  a  reloctant  Ministry  and  an  unwilling  Parliament  at  the  behest  of  sense- 
less ntobs,  that  we  have  examined  the  results  likely  to  be  produced  by  his  theocratic 
creed  and  bis  Venetian  dcKCnL 

taac  D'lsraeli,  we  are  informed,  received  the  greater  part  of  his  education  at 
Leyden.  He  seems  however  in  boyhood  to  have  read  a  pretty  ealensive  course 
of  Hebrew  and  Rabbinical  literature  ;  judging  merely  from  the  internal  evidences 
of  his  later  writings,  and  particularly  from  his  "Portraiture  of  Judaism,"  a  work  of 
singular  merit  which  has  lallen  into  unaccountable  n^lect,  we  should  say  that 
be  was  a  diligent  student  of  Maimoiudes,  Aben  Eira,   Manasaeh  Ben  Israel,  bnt 


Tiii  MEMOIR  OF  THE  LATE  ISAAC  IT  ISRAELI, 

more  especially  of  Moses  Mendelsohn.  Like  the  last-named  great  man,  whom, 
perhaps  unintentionally,  he  seems  to  have  taken  for  his  model,  D^  Israeli  chose  to  be 
purely  a  speculative  philosopher,  who  never  mingled  in  political  broils,  and  who 
shunned  all  connection  with  political  and  religious  parties.  Hence,  when  he  visited 
Paris  in  1786,  he  escaped  the  influence  of  those  passions  which  had  been  roused 
and  stimulated  by  the  revolution  then  impending,  but  devoted  himself  to  the  study 
of  French  literature  with  a  zeal  and  ardour  which  continued  with  little  abatement 
to  almost  the  last  hour  of  his  life. 

At  no  period  of  his  life  was  D' Israeli  a  rabbinist  or  talmudist ;  a  large  and  liberal 
philosophy  raised  him,  as  it  did  Mendelsohn,  above  all  the  exclusive,  intolerant,  and 
anti-social  glosses  with  which  the  authors  of  the  Mishna  and  Gemara  have  encum- 
bered and  distorted  the  Mosaic  legislation.  He  clung  to  the  principles  of  the 
sublime  and  tolerant  prayer  offered  by  Solomon  at  the  dedication  of  the  Temple. 

But  this  tolerance  was  not  confined  merely  to  philosophic  opinion.  Isaac 
D' Israeli,  from  the  very  commencement  of  his  career,  was  a  zealous  advocate  for 
every  philanthropic  plan  by  which  the  sufferings  of  humanity  could  be  averted  or 
alleviated.  He  adhered  rigidly  to  those  genuine  principles  of  charity  which  are  thus 
nobly  enunciated  by  Rabbi  Moses  Ben  Mizraim  in  his  comment  on  the  First  Book 
of  Kings  : — "With  respect  to  the  Goim  (foreign  nations  or  Gentiles),  our  fathers 
have  commanded  us  to  visit  their  sick  and  to  bury  their  dead  as  the  dead  of  Israel, 
and  to  relieve  and  maintain  their  poor  as  we  do  the  poor  of  Israel,  because  of  the 
ways  of  peace  ;  as  it  is  written,  *  Elohim  (God)  is  good  to  all,  and  his  tender  mercies 
are  over  all  his  works.*  "     Psalm  cxlv.  9. 

It  is  certain  that  Isaac  D' Israeli,  though  his  parents  had  quitted  the  Jewish  com- 
munity, took  a  lively  interest  in  the  question  of  Jewish  emancipation  ;  but,  save  in 
the  "  Portraiture  of  Judaism,"  we  are  not  aware  of  his  having  written  directly  on 
the  subject  We  know,  however,  that  he  spumed  the  common  rabbinical  notion 
of  a  sudden  and  simultaneous  elevation  of  the  Jews  to  the  highest  rank  of  civiliza- 
tion and  refinement  He  believed  that  the  restoration  of  the  Jews  to  the  rank  of 
citizens  and  equal  subjects  would  be  accomplished  by  the  gradual  spread  of  know- 
ledge and  intelligence  ;  and  in  this  he  agrees  with  the  ancient  talmudists. 

So  early  as  his  sixteenth  year  Mr.  D'Israeli  commenced  his  honourable  career  as 
an  English  author  by  addressing  some  verses  to  Dr.  Johnson,  whose  High  Church 
aod  Jacobite  notions  were  closely  in  accordance  with  those  of  an  admirer  of  the 
Hebrew  theocracy.  At  a  later  period  he  published  the  oriental  tale  of  "  Mejnoun 
and  Leila,"  the  first  eastern  story  written  by  a  European  in  which  the»proprieties  of 
costume  and  maimer  have  received  carefid  attention. 

The  work,  however,  by  which  the  elder  D'Israeli  will  always  be  best  known, 
because  it  is  the  work  which  has  made  the  deepest  impression  on  the  mind  of  the 
age,  is  the  **  Curiosities  of  Literature."  It  was  the  first  revelation  to  the  English 
people  that  they  possessed  materials  for  historical  and  critical  investigations  hardly 
inferior  in  value  to  the  celebrated  Memoirs  of  the  French  ;  and  it  was  also  one  of 
the  earliest  attempts  to  vindicate  the  memory  of  the  Stuarts,  but  more  especially 
the  first  James  and  the  first  Charles,  from  the  odium  which  had  been  accumulated 


UEUOIR  OF  THE  LATE  ISAAC  D'ISBAELI. 

upon  then  ever  since  the  revolation.  More  than  one  of  the  Waverley  Novel*  wu 
obvioiuljr  suggested  bjr  the  "Curiosities  of  Literature;"  and  to  that  work  ■ 
modem  wrileis  of  historical  romance  have  been  far  more  deeply  indebted  than  they 
have  ever  yet  acknowledged. 

The  "Quaneli  of  Authors,"  the  "Calamities  of  Authors,"  and  the  "Illustra- 
tions of  the  Literary  Character,"  though  more  immediately  connected  with  Uterary 
history,  are  everywhere  marked  with  the  characteristic  feeliogs  and  sentiments 
which  rendered  the  author  an  earnest  advocate  and  lealous  pleader  for  the  hapleu 
house  of  Stuart, 

It  was  D'lsraeli's  review  of  Speace'i  "  Anecdotes  "  in  the  "  Quarterly,"  which 
gave  -rise  to  the  great  Pope  controversy,  in  which  Mr.  Bowles,  Lord  Byron, 
Mr.  Campbell,  and  others  took  a  part.  The  reviewer's  vindication  of  the  moral 
and  poetical  character  of  Pope  evinces  great  earnestness  and  conviction  :  be  writes 
not  as  an  advocate  stating  a  case,  but  as  a  warm-hearted  judge,  who,  having  c: 
fiiUy  investigated  all  the  evidence,  has  unconsciously  become  a  partisan  while  st 
ming  up  the  case.  Bat  we  suspect  that  Pope  was  not  the  principal  person  in 
writer's  mind  while  preparing  this  article  :  we  think  that  from  banning  to  end  he 
was  mainly  intent  on  a  vindication  of  Bolingbroke,  that  misrepresented  statesman 
and  misapprehended  genius,  to  whom  the  younger  D'Israeh  has  had  the  couragi 
do  justice.  Bayle  and  Bolingbroke  bave  been  especial  favourites  wilh  both  the 
D'lsraelis  ;  the  father  as  a  scholar  clinging  closer  to  the  former,  the  latter  as  a 
politician  dwelling  more  emphatically  on  the  latter.  If  in  the  elder  D'lsraeli's 
volumes  of  literary  history  we  find  Bayle's  multifarious  reading,  his  philosophic 
spirit  of  speculation,  his  contempt  for  merely  papular  opinion,  and  a  very  appre- 
ciable tendency  la  paradox;  so  in  the  younger  we  And  the  ideal  of  Bolingbroke 
more  or  less  pervading  the  heroes  of  his  political  romances.  Vivian  Grey  is 
Bolir^broke  in  those  early  days  of  his  political  intrigues,  when,  with  a  boyish  spirit 
of  malice,  he  overturned  the  political  combinations  which  he  had  toiled  to  acc< 
plish,  from  mere  caprice  or  from  sheer  love  of  mischief ;  and  Coningsby  is  what 
Bolingbroke  would  have  been  had  he  set  himself  up  as  a  patriot  minister  for  h 
own  ideality  of  a  patriot  king. 

Now  this  admiration  of  Bolingbroke  arises  chiefly,  but  not  wholly,  from  the 
Venetian  cast  of  the  character  of  that  statesman.  Bolingbroke  was  essentially  the 
statesman  of  an  oligarchy  ;  an  admiiable  manager  of  a  party,  but  the  worst  possible 
leader  of  a  people.  It  may  seem  inconsistent  to  speak  of  the  theocratic  element  in 
the  mind  of  a  reputed  infidel ;  and  yet  the  High  Church  sentiments  of  Bolingbroke 
cannot  be  questioned 

Isaac  D'Israeli  was  one  of  the  few  men  who  lived  exclusively  for  literature. 
Early  placed  in  a  position  of  independence,  which  rendered  it  unnecessary  for  him 
to  adopt  the  commercial  pursuits  of  his  father,  he  indulged  his  taste,  or  rather  his 
passion,  for  curious  research,  and  never  was  satisfied  in  the  investigation  of  any 
question  until  he  had  examined  the  original  authorities.  His  writings  and  example 
have  diSiised  a  taste  for  historical  inquiry  and  criticism,  which  has  become,  to  « 
great  extent,  the  prevalent  characteristic  of  our  age.     In  1S41  he  was  stricken  with 


MtkOIS  OF  THELATE  ISAAC  ty/3RAELT. 

blindnes*,  ud  Ibongh  he  tabmhted  to  an  opeittion,  ha  nght  wu  not  realored. 
He,  the  great  Ameiicin  writer,  Prescott,  and  Tiuenj,  the  authoi  of  the  "  History 
of  th«  Conqaest  of  England  hf  the  Nomuuu  "  (who  hu  published  levenU  cxinsider- 
able  wofk*  since  his  bibdocu),  are  probablj  the  only  historical  authois  who  have 
contiimed  their  taboars  in  spite  of  to  tenible  a  calamity.  Aided  by  his  daughter, 
he  produced  the  "  Amenities  of  LiteiatuTe,"  and  completed  the  leviaioa  of  his 
great  work  on  the  Reign  of  Charles  I.,  which,  on  its  fiTM  pnUication,  had  procured 
for  him  the  decree  of  D.C.L.  from  the  Univeiuty  of  Oxford. 

A  cultivated  and  poweiAil  memoiy  enabled  him,  in  the  later  yean  of  his  life,  to 
pour  forth  the  stores  he  had  accumulated  in  bis  long  and  varied  itudiex  with  a  prO' 
fusion  u  delightful  as  it  was  surprising.  "The  blind  old  mju  eloquent"  wi 
description  as  applicable  to  him  as  to  the  bard  of  Sdo.  He  felt  that  he  had  left 
impress  on  his  age  and  country ;  that  he  had  enforced  a  more  scrupulous  ar 
I  to  accuracy  on  its  historians,  and  a  more  careful  observance  of  character  and 
lume  on  its  writer*  of  fiction.  The  dangers  with  which  his  favourite  ideai 
theocracy  and  nobility  had  been  menaced  by  the  wild  theories  to  which  the  French 
Revolution  gave  biilh,  bad  long  faded  from  his  view,  and  he  could  look  Torward  to 
a  redemption  of  Israel  consequent  on  a  general  advancement  of  enlightened  prin- 
ciple and  philosophic  intelligence,  //ii  tivri  mu  liitHe ;  the  great  ideas  which  it 
1  been  his  mission  to  develop  were  now  unfolded  more  brilliantly,  though 
perhaps  not  more  efficaciously,  by  his  son,  who  became  the  expounder  of  his  most 
cherished  sentiments,  and  more  than  the  supporter  of  his  dearly-eamed  fame.  His 
1  hme  was  thus  enshrined  in  his  son's  reputation,  and  no  one  could  hereafter 
ne  either  D'lsraeli  without  feeling  that  as  the  one  worthily  led  so  the  other 
wotthily  succeeded. 

The  death  of  Mr.  D'lsraeli  took  place  in  the  eighty-second  year  of  his  age,  at  his 
country  seal,  Bradenham  House,  in  Buckinghamshlie,  January  19th,  1848.  He  died 
a  widower,  having  lost  his  wife,  to  whom  he  bad  been  united  for  more  than  forty 
yeais,  in  the  springof  1847.  One  daughter  and  three  sons  survived  him  ;  his  eldest 
son  IS  too  well  known  (wherever  the  English  language  is  spoken)  for  us  to  say 
e  word  respecting  bis  claim*  to  celebrity. 


**  The  lait  liuc  D'lmeli,  £«q.,  uul  the  Ocnioi  0I 
appctred  in  Bmtt^'t  KUtttiany  Tor  M      ' 
itaOtj,  the  minnt  puliUiheT,  il  Hn 


u  able  ntitle  cntlUed 
Jr.  W.  C.  T.ylor,  w 
counarof  Mr.  Kliturd 


ADVERTISEMENT. 


The  author  oT  this  Mucellaar,  in  tb«  Pre&ce  to  x  new  edition  of  the  6nt 
wries,  published  in  1834,  telti  ni  that  it  wu  linl  formed  many  yetn  before, 
in  the  conviction  that  lileniy-hittoiy  aflbrded  an  almost  unexplored  source  of 
interesting  facta ;  adding  that  the  work  wu  daigned  to  itimalale  the  cnrioaily 
of  thoK  who,  with  a  tule  for  the  tranquil  puraniti  of  literature,  are  impeded 
in  aoquiring  iaformation.  The  characten,  the  event*,  and  the  ungularitiet  of 
modem  liteiBlnrc,  he  proceedi  to  remark,  are  not  alwayi  familiar  even  to 
those  who  excel  io  claxaical  studies.  But  a  more  numerous  pari  of  mankind, 
by  their  oocup^tioni,  or  their  indolence — both  un&voimble  cauies  to  literary 
improvement — require  to  obtain  the  materials  for  thinking,  by  the  easiest 
and  readiest  means. 

In  the  Preface  affixed  to  a.  new  iuoe  of  the  "Curioiiti«a"  in  1S34,  the 
anthor  stales  that  nearly  half  a  century  had  elapsed  since  the  pubUctlion  of 
the  first  volume  ;  the  other  portions  appeariog;  from  time  to  time  during  a 
period  of  about  twenty-eight  yean ;  and  he  concludes  by  remarking  with 
laudable  pride,  that  during  this  inteml  "thcK  volntnes  had  become  domestic 
favonrite* ;  that  a  great  personage  once  called  them  hii  little  libnuj ;  and 
they  stood  classed  in  the  catilogoe  among  the  ddma  liUrarur  :  that  the  work, 
which  had  been  printed  already,  and  translated,  had  received  the  same  dislin- 
gnithed  approbation,  by  bring  constantly  referred  to  by  the  most  eminent 
writers  both  for  thdr  information  and  their  opiniona." 


M^^a&JMhfciM^aggii^M 

CONT 

ENTS. 

"S 
ii 
i 

1 

«9 

)» 

H 
ii 

i 

s 

M 

u 
» 

Chinclen  dcKribed  b)' muiicil  note* .    , 

ritloofIllu«rioiB.Highne.^«d  Burllenc 

Dethnmed  moDUThi 

9on.ein^i>io.»ti»uttau  :  ;  :  : 

Etrl)- pnnliiil! 

:  :  :  S 

...  19 

Vlcin  or  Bnv 

Anecdoleo(4etrig.d).ofDougli.     .    . 

Aradent  mika  irUWt,  poeli,  •nd 

,iiii.:  " 

Conception  .BJe-prOMon.    .    .    . 

.  .  .  » 

Puquin  >nd  Huforio 

remde  b«ut»  and  Dmimenti     .... 
Modem  plilo^inn 

Anccdoteiaffiitaion 

ton-myl  loeiety 

Hen  of  genial  de«c[eiii  in  amnrua 

:  :  :  S 
-  :  :  S 

on    ■    ■     ^' 

TheiaTniheut 

3el!:r«?UC" ::::::::  : 

NaluTii   pTodoclioiu,   memMlnit   inilicii 

J|^.™jjemen,^ 

...      41 

Julii'i  poelitil  gtrlind 

S^^'.-HHeliSlUI"*  "^  "" 

'"'■-  ':  ^ 

Kohtomen  hi'ra^  ctitia JO 

Litei«r  impoKun. js 

Elie.belh. 

AT 


CONTENTS, 


Medical  miuic im 

Bfioatc  writing tOS 

Nnmencal  figures 104 

English  astrologcn 10$ 

Ak%)nny 106 

TftJe«ofbook* leS 

Utenry  foUie* 110 

Litcnry  controrenjr 115 

Literary  blanden 1 19 

Literary  wife laa 

DeiUcatiom ia6 

Philosophical  descriptire  poems 127 

Pamphlets laS 

Little  books 130 

Catholic's  refutation 130 

Adnce  of  a  literary  sinner iji 

Mysteries  moralities,  farces,  and  sotties    .    .131 

An  ancient  morality  of  Lore  and  Polly     .    .  135 

Religious  nourclettcs 135 

Bentley's  Milton 138 

Jansenist  dictionary 139 

Manuscripts  and  books 140 

Turicish  ifj 141 

Spenser,  Jonson,  and  Shakespeare    .    .    .    .  r^i 

Jonson,  Peltham,  and  Randolph 14a 

Ariosto  and  Tasso 144 

Venice 145 

Bayle 146 

Corantes 147 

Magliabechi 147 

Abridgers.    .    .    • 148 

ProfdMTS  of  plagiansm  and  obscority  .    .    .  149 

Literary  German  a«d  Dutch 150 

Literary  prodnctiot«  not  seizable  by  creditors  151 

Critics 151 

Anecdotes  of  authors  censured 152 

A  treatise  of  rirginity 153 

A  glance  into  the  French  academy  ....  154 

Poetical  and  grammatical  deaths 155 

Scarron 157 

Peter  Comeille 159 

Poets 161 

Romances 165 

Astrea,  an  old  French  romance 168 

Poets  laureate 170 

Angelo  Pnlitian 171 

An  original  letter  of  queen  Blixabeth  .    .    .  17a 

Anne  Bullen 17a 

James  1 173 

General  Monk  and  his  wife 175 

Philip  and  Mary 175 

ChartesI 176 

Duke  of  Buckingham 177 

Death  of  Charles  IX.  of  France 178 

Royal  promotions 179 

Nobility 180 

Salutations  of  various  nations 180 

Singularities  of  war 181 

Origin  of  frreworks 18a 

Bible  prohibited  and  Improred 183 

Origin  of  writing,  the  materials  of  ...    .  184 

Anecdotes  of  European  manners     ....  187 

Anecdotes  of  the  eariy  drama 190 

"  Marriage  of  the  arts,"  a  scarce  and  whim- 
sical comedy 191 

A  contrivance  in  dramatic  dialogue     .    .    .  193 

Comedy  of  a  madman 193 

Anecdotes  of  sobtnde 194 


Aseooots  of  antraction  of  mnid    ....  197 

Ricnarasoo    ............  199 

Theological  style aoo 

Infloence  of  names aoo 

Jews  of  York 904 

Sovereignty  of  seas aos 

Historical  notices  of  the  custom  of  kissing 

hands    • ao6 

Popes  ..............  ao7 

Literary  compositions 307 

Poetical  imitations  and  similarities  ....  aio 

Pac<4umle  m  thb  srork,  explained    ....  317 

Literary  fashions 918 

The  pantoipimical  characters 119 

Extempore  comedies 324 

Massinger,  Milton,  and  the  Italian  theatre  337 

Songs  of  trade*,  or  songs  for  the  people     .    .  asS 

Introducers  of  exotic  m>wers,  fruits  Sec.  •    .  331 

Usurers  of  the  seventeenth  century  ....  334 

Chidiock  TItchboume 338 

Elisabeth  and  her  pariiament 343 

Anecdotesof  PritKC  Henry,  the  son  of  James  I., 

when  a  child 345 

The  diary  of  a  master  of  the  ceremonies   .    .  348 

Diaries — moral,  historical,  and  critical .    .    .  353 

Licensers  of  the  press 356 

Of  anagrams  and  echo  verses a6i 

Orthography  of  proper  names 364 

Namesof  our  streets 365 

Secret  histoiv  of  Edward  Vere,  Earl  of  Oxford  am 

Ancient  cookery  and  cooks 367 

Ancient  and  modem  Saturnalia 371 

Reliquiae  Oethinianje 376 

Robinson  Crusoe 378 

Catholic  and  Protestant  dramas 379 

The  histor>-  of  the  theatre  during  its  suppres* 

sion 380 

Drinking  customs  in  England 384 

Literary  anecdotes 388 

Condemned  poets ...    * 389 

Acajou  and  Zlirphile 391 

Tom  O'  Bedlams 393 

Introduction  of  tea,  coffee,  and  chocolate      .  394 

Charies  the  FSrsfs  love  of  the  fine  arts  ...  397 
The  secret  history  of  Charies  I.  and  his  queen 

Henrietta 301 

The  minister — the  cardinal  duke  of  RicheGeu 

The  minister— duke  of   Buckingham,  lord  306 

admiral,  lord  general,  &c.  8cc.  sc.    ...  30B 

Felton,  the  political  assassin 314 

Johnson's  hints  for  the  life  of  Pope  .    .    .    .  317 

Modem  literature — Bayle*s  critical  dictionary  319 

Characteristics  of  Bayle 331 

Cicero  viewed  as  a  collector 334 

The  history  of  the  Caraccis 33$ 

An  English  academy  of  literature  .  *    .    .    .  338 

Quotation 331 

'The  origin  of  Dante's  Inferno  .*....  333 
Of  a  history  of  events  which  have  not  hap- 
pened      336 

Of  fiilse  political  reports 339 

Of  suppressors  and   dilapidators  of    manu- 
scripts    34X 

Parodies '.',..  34! 

Anecdotes  of  the  Fairfax  family  .    . '  .    .    .  348 

Medicine  and  morab 349 

halm  singing   .    .    .    . 35a 


\ 


Ulnn  nnimt   laa  bUtoty  of  Kiwkigb'i 

Hbwry  or  the  World  uulVuull  Lira    . 

Of  1  biosimpbr  palntal 


Auloanptu  . 
The  Qiftorr  of 

The  book  of  d 
TJk  hiilofT    ' 
TherifilU 
OfLcnglct' 


Senlimcntal  blognphjr 

Uunry  pinllili 

The  pail  Mbla  ud  ilK  Iboound  em 
Vkev  of  ■  pinieular  pcHod  o[  ihe  ■ 

Of  Bockinghun'i  piUiticiI  coqudry  iri 


cent  bbUHy  of  Clutla  the  Hni.  uid  bit 
fnt  ptfibmenti     .    , -    -    i 

.Ife  end  hablaaf  ■  liteiiry  uitlquiiy-^i'clyi 


CURIOSITIES  OF  LITERATURE. 


carioiity;  but  InDg  ilTcqniivd  royal  mDDificcncc 

uT  of  inul(ipl}in)t  the  productioH  M  the  mind 
bn  lKen<9lli'iimi?d,lbil  men  of  letlen  hin  been 

Tlie  tule  fcl  bnnkh  »  rare  beCore  the  liftecDtb 
crniun ,  bu  graduilly  twcome  Ecnml  Dnlj-  within 
Ihnc  four  bundred  rein  [  in  tbat  •moll  apice  of 

Of  LiuAHiu,  the  foUowinff  Ancctiotn  Kcni 
molt  inte(E«iBg,iithe]>maikeiIlurlhe  i&cliDn. 
HtlKKnention.iriiicfa  civilized  men  hne  ever 
feJt  lor  Iboe  pemniil  icBMiioria  of  Ibnr  mimto. 
The  fint  nitional  Ubnry  founded  in  Egypt  teemed 
Id  hive  been  placed  under  the  protection  of  tbc 
dirihiliet,  for  their  UAtua  nugnilicentJv  adDmcd 
Ihit  lempk.  dedicaled  >l  once  to  reli^^  and  to 

veU-ktuwn  inKtiptwn.  for  ever  grateful  to  the 
v«tjt7  of  lircrature;  on  the  [roni  wai  enEraven 
"The  DounihmepI  of  ihe  loui  ^"  or,  iccoroing  to 


Bul  into  the  iraat  body  li 


jade;mcn1  are  in  tKal  caUJngue,    One  of  the  P1o> 

viita  wheat,  untit  Tbf7  preaentrd  him  vilh  the 
oriniiuJ   minuKripaol  «ichylui,  Sophocles      -  ■ 


Tell  af  cDorage,  tbey  ha'c  proved  the  moil  ardent 
pabOMof  lileiature;  thpjr  know  It  if  their  intemt 
ui  tnm  ail de  the  public  mind  from  political  fpeculi- 
viB^  and  to  afford  (belr  nbject)  the  inexhauttible 


'c  pflvescd  (he  i 


of  RCKului  with  the  boolu  found  In  that  citi 

able  ttei-  could  bertow.    Prom  the  intercmi; 
the  Unmini  with  Ibe  Citeki  the  pasian  for  I 


a,  their  mignilkeDi 


liicif  on  more  thin  imp-nal  iuxuriei,  rrtore  ho- 
nourably diitinguiihed  nimieir  by  hii  vaK  collec- 
tioni  of  books  and  the  hippy  uie  be  made  of  them 
by  the  liberal  acces  he  allowed  the  learned,  "  11 
waa  a  library,"  uya  RutiTch,  "whole  wallu,  gal- 

Tbif  library  enlarged  by  otben,  Juliui  Ccur  on< 

Ihe  erudite  Virro  for  iti  librarian  i  but  the  daggen 
of  Brutui  and  hii  partj  prvrent^  Ihe  mcdi"-"-' 

qncntly  pumied  hit  rtndiei,  during  the  lim 

•critiei  to  Attlcnt  in  bii  4lh  Book,  Bpiit.  g.  Ami^ 


ire  itfnniibcd  at 


In;  ctf  ttinc  libnna  he  fondly  CAlkd  bir  rhe 

^mpk  of  Apalln,  Iwctme  the  hinnt  of  rhc  poeu» 

itrd-  The  ncccHon  of  AueuKiu  imitiled  hi> 
umplv»   ind  e»cii  Tiberiui  had  an   imperiil 

nipir«  uid  (he  icti  of  lt«  iovcRigD<i.  ^iw 
V,i}an  lofmcnlcd  by  Ibe  Ulpian  librvv,  to  de- 
oiniuleJ^Crom  Ihe  ftmil^  Bune  o(  Ihfi  prince. 


dakt  of  ebony  Mod  cedar- 

The  fint  UNu  (itrdr^  In  tbir,  Bf*  TinbOKhi, 

indeedequ-illoalTcan^.  Tlitici'ra^di  nary  man 

jurhot  hillAtbet  beicljDquidledlhehcatcn  madt 
of  gahi,  nd  derored  hii  aoul  to  MndT,  ind  bii 

HhrwT  lo  the  public,  but  hki  debta  beJnK  mcaler 
than  bji  effecb,  itie  princeLr  Kenerotil)'  of 
dc  Medici  re4liied  Ihe  intention  of  ila 


dip>a]  HoaariDn  Ibf  hit  cooDITy  am  gave  Venice  ihc 
rud]meatl  of  a  pnblic  iibrarr  i  and  to  SirT.  DodlcT 

Vdotben  oflhiinfeof  lovenof  booka,  have  all 
eoitribnted  to  form  Ibeae  literajj  creuura^  wblcb 

lolunn  and  Iheir  da)**  to  thb  gittl  public  object ; 
or.  which  in  the  mull  pnduca  the  ame  pnbhc 

friqucntlf  purchased  on  Ibeir  dea1bs»  by  ptvwn- 

LiTiBATiraa.  like  TiTtue.  ii  ita  own  rew»rd»  and 

wjileciar  the  ca]uinn]>  of  the  mrkl,  which  lome 

I  wy  hare  vvAUomd,  at  tlUziiilri  ^om  the  TP'^rT' 


cup  of  literature,    Richard  de  Biuv,  Biibop  c4 

Durham^  ehahHlloraDd  higb  tRnanlrr  Df  InKlavd 
■o  earlr  aa  1341,  pcrhapt  miied  the  fint  ^Tatn 

tot^  voluma  of  Ibe  Abbot  of  ftt,  Alban'a  for  fifty 
poooda  weight  of  liLter.     He  wia  m  enamoured 


library  at  Ci^tenhagen.  whoae  daya 
ardour  in  the  followmg  elegant  effn-* 


Lighti  who  beam'd  through  many  age 


rage  which  ottentation  may  bare  abued;  but 

letren»  the  moal  fanciful  biudingi  aje  often  the 
— Ki .1  i;. .^j  fcriingi.    The  great 


furth^  adorned   by  ItuE  amiable  inacTiptJon,  Ja. 
OnlUnil  ti  linn—  '—puipoitiBg  that  tbae  lite- 


TBS  BfBLlOMASIS. 


7%a  fiimi&r  of  the  Pnggcn  hi 


fur  ibc  WDtnatoiiaii  of  liimiy 

m  in  a 

nucMbaa."     WoWw, 

oal  ^  inttludc  in  mDC  Greek  vinet,  UM  de- 
Ktiba  tCi  bibUathuDC  ■■  ■  Ucbwt  borai. 
■iilicd  wilb  tt  ■lujrlnaki  u  Ibtn  irm  mm 

ha  piaedeatiR^iq'i  ID  cttbennglruit  ukd  dowen. 

dcUlbbBg  «wi  iaetrmcniii  biineV  br  perpctiuJ 

ocCBpaliOB. 

In  itft4  (be  mrel  UbrvT  of 

Dnkc  of  Bcdftinl  i/tenrente  purcbued  ukd  tr 
parted  ts  UmtkJn.  wtue  libniis  weic  vnj 

Kxeteipi,  Cbulea  V.  lamuncd  'ibe  WIk.  ordi 
tlul  thtRy  poTUble  UgbUh  wiih  ■  Ailvcr  Ump  m*^ 
pcndcd  Awn  tbc  ccDDe.  iboiiUI  be  illnmiiuted  u 
Di(bl.  Uul  HDdenli  nu^I  dm  Bud  thdl  pDIIDlB 
iDtoTupted  It  aaj  bosj.  Miaj'  uneng  ui^  it  tbil 
nwmeiit.  wbeee  yntamotal  evocetiooi  Adrnit  Dot 

fbUic  libwy  ire  Dot  BceeaibLe  to  tbcm  froin  tbe 


own  BiitUb  Hdkhoi  DM  >  ligbt  ■  pcnaitud  to  be 
cvTied  tboat  on  May  peecence  wbetercTp  Tbe 
hntcKT  gf  the  "  BibbMhtqu  dn  Koi"  ■  4  tntiou 
■Bcideol  Id  Utentuni  eod  the  pKecit  pftbt 
bBnun  mind  end  psbUc  opiakn  migbt  be  tnccd 
by  it!  gndoAl  iccciiioiH,  Dotiu  the  chAOCubM 
qoiJilice  of  in  lUenir  ■Mneebid)'  ftam  tbeolofr, 
taw,  end  mcdiciDe,  Ln  pbiieeopby  end  elegul  lite- 
nun  IB  uDODDi  ID  »5,eoo  phDted  booki,  fe^ooo 
M  mnoq  liEtte  TQlume  publithed  by  K-  Le  Pnof  e  m 


HiK,'Jtt,iA 


bar  oaple  ponMioe  laid  Uk  (BaodilWu,  eod  Ac 
cUjUaffaei  of  hi*  coUectioDi,  priatEd  hj  MuoUb 
himeeu,  mn  nic,  <4riaue»  ind  high-priced'    Our 

Mr,  HaLUoi  bu  obeerred,  tbai  in  1440  EngUnd 
hid  vide  campenliTcl)'  but  little  pi4peia  la 
icHDhv— uid  Genouijr  wu  prabebly  itiU  Lea  tA- 

ceUeetdv  of  beoki  in  tbepcnoii  ofThtbernin'.tbc 
leWnted  ebbM  of  IpeslKini,  who  dkd  io  iliii 
be  lud  emvcd  about  two  Ihcmmd  nuBMcnpti. 

d>r  innlled  [a  nit  mtbemiiu  iDd  bie  Llbrwy. 


price  coold  ODlp  be  fumiibed  bjr  ■  pnoce. 
el  the  beoinDiDg  of    '      '      ' 


Tbc  pteuum  of  ^udj 

-woU  of  boslKk'-  be  e 
Un  iDd  die  with  taeh  nu 

■U  thy  wciltb  uid 


1  deaed  by  fiortoD 


P,  bcBllchcth 


itghti,  iKDt  in  Ebdr 

ii»  wu  mcwrd  up  jn  tbe  kibnry  of  LeydCD  ail 
he  yev  looft,  and  tbjit  wbich  to  mr  (htnkiDi; 

peeler  bkieg,  1  do  icvner,  leith  bti  cDme  in 
he  LbruT,  but  I  bolt  the  door  Ea  inc»  cjicludii 
Lu',  AmbiHoD^  Ariricc.  end  all  lucb  Tics,  who 
IDrae  IB  Idleaea,  the  rrwcber  of  IpMnBce  ud  If 
anchol<r'     In  the  very   Up  of  ctenuty,  amoni 

I  ipiril,  and  iweet  coDtent,  Oat  I  pity  all  oi 


There  11,  however,  aa  inleinpennce  in  iludy, 

I  the  Rpniactae*  of  Krtiie  of  hii  contcmporarii 
(  haiing  loo  warmly  pimaed  bit  Rudiei.  to  th 

rCicenh  that  bia  phlLoiDphical  itudiei  had  net* 
iteilnd  with  tbe  (errka  be  owed  tbe  republi< 
■nd  that  be  hid  ooly  dedicated  lo  them  the  hou 
—' — *-  othen  (ive  10  their  walk),  their  reparti,  and 


DrUbear  tbe  til 


a  of  Ibe  dl 


gbicil . 

have  becq  an  eany  riicr  1  and  practiied  lb 
'  coiFMying  bii  tiioe,  lo  uid  hive  m 


yet  Impartial  tratb  mutt 


LITERARY  JOURNALS, 


library — and  as  it  was  Cacetioosly  observed,  these 
collections  are  not  without  a  Lock  on  the  Human 
Understanding.* 

The  Bibliomania  has  nerer  ra^ed  more  violently 
than  in  the  present  da^.  It  is  fortunate  that  lite- 
rature is  in  no  ways  injured  by  the  follies  of  collec- 
tors, since  though  they  preserve  the  worthless, 
they  necessarily  defend  the  good. 

Some  collectors  place  all  their  fame  on  the  viev/ 
of  a  splendid  library,  where  volumes  arrayed  in  all 
the  pomp  of  lettering,  silk  linings,  tnple  gold 
bands  and  tinted  leather,  are  locked  up  m  wire 
cases,  and  secured  from  the  vulgar  hands  of  the 
nure  reader^  dazzling  our  eyes  like  eastern  beauties 
peering  through  their  jalousies  I 

Brutere  has  touched  on  this  mania  with  hn- 
mour :  "  Of  such  a  collector,"  says  he,  **  as  soon  as 
I  enter  his  house,  I  am  ready  to  faint  on  the  stair- 
case, from  a  strong  smell  of  Morocco  leather :  in 
vain  he  shows  me  fine  editions,  gold  leaves,  Etrus- 
can bindings,  &c.,  naming  them  one  after  another, 
as  if  he  were  showing  a  gallery  of  pictures !  a  gal- 
lery by  the  by  which  he  seldom  traverses  when 
alone^  for  he  rarely  reads,  but  me  he  oflficTS  to  con- 
duct through  it  I  I  thank  him  for  his  politeness, 
and  as  little  as  himself  care  to  visit  the  tan-house, 
which  he  calls  his  libranr." 

LuciAN  has  composed  a  biting  invective  against 
an  ignorant  possessor  of  a  vast  librar)-.  Like  him, 
who  in  the  present  day,  after  turning  over  the 
pages  of  an  old  book,  chiefly  admires  the  date. 
LuciAS  compares  him  to  a  pilot,  who  was  never 
taught  the  science  of  navigation ;  to  a  nder  who 
cannot  keep  his  seat  on  a  spirited  horse ;  to  a  man 
who,  not  having  the  use  of  his  feet,  wishes  to  con- 
ceal the  defect  by  wearing  embroidered  shoes; 
but,  alas  I  he  cannot  stand  in  them  I  He  ludi- 
crously compares  him  to  Thersites  wearing  the 
armour  of  Achilles,  tottering  at  every  step ;  leering 
with  his  little  eyes  under  his  enormous  helmet, 
and  bis  hunch-back  raising  the  cuirass  above  his 
shoulders.  Why  do  you  buy  so  many  books  ?  he 
says: — you  have  no  hair,  and  you  purchase  a 
comb ;  you  are  blind,  and  you  will  have  a  grand 
mirror;  ^ou  are  deaf,  and  you  will  have  fine 
musical  instruments!  Your  costly  bindings  are 
only  a  source  of  vexation,  and  vou  are  continually 
discharging  your  librarians  tor  not  preserving 
them  from  the  silent  invasion  of  the  worms,  and 
the  nibbling  triumphs  of  the  rats ! 

Such  eollectors  will  contemptuously  smile  at  the 
collection  of  the  amiable  Melancthon.  He  pos- 
sessed in  his  library  only  four  authors,  Plato,  Pliny, 
Plutarch,  and  Ptolemy  the  geographer. 

Ancillon  was  a  great  collector  of  curious  books, 
and  dexterously  defended  himself  when  accused  of 
the  Bibliomania,  He  gave  a  good  reason  for  buying 
the  most  elegant  editions ;  which  he  did  not  con- 
sider merely  as  a  literary  luxury.  He  said  the  less 
the  eyes  are  fatigued  in  reading  a  work,  the  more 
liberty  the  mind  feels  to  judge  of  it :  and  as  we 

*  An  allusion  and  pun  which  occasioned  the 
French  translator  of  the  present  work  an  unlucky 
blunder :  puzzled  no  doubt  by  my  facetiously^  he 
translates  **  mettant  comme  on  I'a  tris-judicteusc' 
mens  fait  observer,  I'entendement  humain  sous  la 
clef."  The  book,  and  the  author  alluded  to, 
quite  escaped  him  1 


perceive  more  clearly  the  excellencies  and  defects 
of  a  printed  book  than  when  in  ms.;  so  we  see 
them  more  plainly  in  good  paper  and  clear  type 
than  when  tne  impression  and  paper  are  both  bad. 
He  always  purchased  Jirst  editions,  and  never 
waited  for  second  ones ;  though  it  is  the  opinion 
of  some  that  a  first  edition  is  generally  the  least 
valuable,  and  only  to  be  considered  as  an  imper- 
fect essay,  which  the  author  proposes  to  finish 
after  he  has  tried  the  sentiments  of  the  literary 
world.  Bayle  approves  of  Ancillon's  plan.  Those 
who  wait  calmly  for  a  book,  says  he,  till  it  is 
reprinted,  show  plainly  that  they  are  resigned  to 
their  ignorance,  and  prefer  the  sa%ing  of  a  pistole 
to  the  acquisition  of  useful  knowledge.  With  one 
of  these  persons,  who  waited  for  a  second  edition, 
which  never  appeared,  a  literary  man  argued,  that 
it  was  much  better  to  have  two  editions  of  a  book 
than  to  deprive  himself  of  the  advantage  which 
the  reading  of  the  first  might  procure  him ;  and  it 
was  a  bad  economy  to  prefer  a  few  crowns  to  that 
advantage.  It  has  frequently  happened,  beudes, 
that  in  second  editions,  the  author  omits,  as  well 
as  adds,  or  makes  alterations  from  prudential 
reasons ;  the  displeasing  truths  which  he  corrects, 
as  he  might  call  them,  are  so  many  losses  in- 
curred by  Ttuth  itself.  There  is  an  advantage  in 
companne  the  first  with  subsequent  editions ;  for 
among  other  things,  we  feel  great  satisfaction  in 
tracing  the  vjuiations  of  a  work,  when  a  man  of 
genius  has  re\'i9ed  it.  Tliere  are  also  other  secrets, 
well  known  to  the  intelligent  curious,  who  are 
versed  in  affairs  relating  to  books.  Many  first 
editions  arc  not  to  be  purchased  for  the  treble 
value  of  later  ones.  Let  no  lo\'er  of  books  be  too 
hastily  censured  for  his  passion,  which,  if  indulged 
with  judgment,  is  useful.  The  collector  we  have 
noticed  frequently  said,  as  is  related  of  Virgil,  "  I 
collect  gold  from  Ennius's  dung."  I  find,  added 
he,  in  some  neglected  authors,  particular  things, 
not  elsewhere  to  be  found.  He  read  many  of 
these,  but  not  with  equal  attention,  "  Sicut  cants 
ad  Nilum  biberu  etfugiens,*  like  a  dog  at  the  Nile, 
drinking  and  running. 

Fortunate  are  those  who  only  conuder  a  book 
for  the  utility  and  pleasure  they  may  derive  (h>m 
its  possession.  Those  students,  who,  though  they 
know  much,  still  thirst  to  know  more,  may  re- 
quire this  vast  sea  of  books ;  yet  in  that  sea  they 
may  suffer  many  shipwrecks. 

Great  collections  of  books  are  subject  to  cer- 
tain accidents  besides  the  damp,  the  worms,  and 
the  rats ;  one  not  less  common  is  that  of  the  boT' 
ro-wers,  not  to  say  a  word  of  the  purloiners  ! 


LITERARY  JOURNALS. 

When  writers  were  not  numerous,  and  readers 
rare,  the  unsuccessful  author  fell  insensibly  into 
oblivion ;  he  dissoUxd  away  in  his  owe  weakness : 
if  he  committed  the  private  folly  of  printing  what 
no  one  would  purchase,  he  was  not  arraigned  at 
the  public  tribunal — and  the  awful  terrors  of  his 
day  of  judgment  consisted  only  in  the  retributions 
of  his  publisher's  final  accounts.  At  length,  a 
taste  for  literature  spread  through  the  body  of 
the  people ;  vanity  induced  the  inexperienced  and 
the  ignorant  to  aspire  to  literary  honours.    To 


LITERABT  JOURNALS. 


nlightcning  tW 
le  never  permitted 


<iHO«  theK  forcible 
the  MiiK*»  periodici] 
mldftblc  veipoD;  u 

UAc  wu  gener^y  i 
whfi«  Dccbpationi  ha 
tbcm  to  jud^  of  liter 

Ib^  hire  u  len^^  Knduillr  uaumed,  couid  not 

nture ;  for  wirhout  ii  coniUDt  HippLy  of  lulborit 
and  ■  refined  apiril  of  criliciim,  Ihn  could  not 
excite  t  perpefn^  inteieflC  imong  the  loven  of 

of  tUc  And  science,  and  prcKnt  the  ejiiitlng  Kite 
of  the  public  mind^  while  Ihey  form  ■  reulr  re- 
do not  cboove  10  pjus  idly^ 

Their  mulliplicily  ha%  nndoubtedly  produced 
auch  eril ;  puerile  critics,  uid  reoil  drudjtet.  mi- 

•nceefopiDiop,  which  ii  ihe  Kom  ind  kuuIiIoI 

of  litcntw  have  likewise  made  tremendout  in- 
:,  and  evere  lileraijf  virtue 
ralamitisirfAalhon"  I  hire 

critic.  Gilbeit  81 

Theie  worki  miv  diigDM  by  npid  wneg^ 

BuUgnitr  ii  indulged  igiiiut  authon.  to  tea 
the  cantic  learea,    A  miewer  hu  idmiKd  a 

oAcial  capacity.    But  good  aenie,  good  tcmi 

naliit,  who  ¥rtll  inipirc  conHdence,  and  give  M. 


The  origin  of  «o  many  lilenry  jouniali  wu  the 
:be  parliament  of  Puit.      In    e66j   appeared   hii 


delected,  and  the  wil  had  hii  elainu  diipuled 

Hebdomadary  Plama!     Mdievtiiti  liahdonadatrri 
and  Menage  having  published  a  law-book,  whici 


lyranny.and  thia  atfernpt  to  regulate  the  pnbli 
opinion  by  thai  of  an  individual.  Sallo,  after  hai 
ing  pnbliAed  only  hit  Ihird  volume,  felt  the  irr 


Sallo  had  defended  'the  llbettia  S  the  Gallican 

Intimidated  by  Ihe  fate  of  Sallo,  hii  iuccoidt, 
Ahbi  Calloii,  flounihed  in  a  mlldei  Rign.    He 

nieful  than  inlerotine.    Tbe  paWic.  who  bid 

□r  the  founder  of  Ihia  djrnaffy  of  new  crilici.  now 
murmured  at  the  want  of  tiial  lall  and  aciditji  by 

brought  together;  ther  wiihed  far  Ihe  nnteann- 

tbe  rerjew ;  malhematiciani  complained  Ihey  were 
neglected  lo  make  todd  Edt  eaperiioenta  in 
nalural  pbihaophy;  tbe  hlalorian  Hckened  orcr 

have  nothing  but  diicoveriet  of  uii.  orf^menta 

one  patty  and  reprobated  by  another.  In  a  wonC 
each  reader  wiihed  only  to  naveaccountaof  booka 


lay  niflicieot  playlulnes  lo  nreatbe  the  rod  of 


i                                            LITBRART  J0UBSAL3.                                                 | 

chiefly  campc«l  by  t>n>q>er  Muthuid.  Sallaun. 
Van  E«n.  who  were  then  young  wrilen-    fliii 

the  liboun  of  Ihe  oitic.    Yet  even  BitLt,  who 

lis  may  be  augmenUd   by  other  lODmali,  whtcb 

itc]vri  hinueJf  la  b«  *  leponit  ind  not  ■  )u<lge. 

■*.ij,  the  ducieel  Keptle,  cooW  nM  long  Blirfy 

modem  lilenture.                                                   ' 

Our  early  Bagliih  jonmali  notice  cmly  a  f«r 
pobliciiioni,  with  boi  litle  acumen.     Of  Ihoe, 

KiT^«doth«  jfl^  nil  to^trfjJhU.  ^^ 

Ihe  "  Memoiia  of  LilmlniT,"  and  the  "(Te«!Bt 

Rutc  o(  the  Republic  of  Lnlct^-■  arc  the  beii. 

The   Monlhly    RcTiew,  Ihe  venerable  mother  of 

our  toumala,  commenced  ini )«. 

In  thin**!  uiull  Tolumei  Df  nilkiim,  cloaed  in 
168).    YtM  wrn:  continiieil  by  Bemud,  with 

11  1.  imp<-ibl=tofonn^^raryJonrn,l  in  a 

hi>  MiWiin  *••  Oiruratil  dil  Sftwu. 

work  of  manv  of  ^(nnt  temp^  and  talcoti. 
An  indiridnal.  howeier  tcrBtlle  and  eilcniiTe 

hli  geniut,  would  aoon   be  exhinHcd.    Soeb  ■ 
r^ir  labour  occauoned  Bayle  1  dingennu  iU- 

nea^  ind  Mity  feU  a  .iciim  to   hi)  review.    A 

pnapecl  ilwayi  eilending,  ai  we  pisceed,  Ihe 

01  nrioinei,  whiih  complete  beu  >  very  high 
price.     InfaW  10  B.TL.^n   the    morrTUiSg 

frequenl  novelty  of  the  matter,  Ihe  pride  of  eoe- 

udering  onf.  .elf  aa  the  arbiter  of  litenture. 

Ulenb.  he  i.  nerh.p.  .ipeiior  in  erudition,  ti>3 

•howi  gnat  Aill  in  inilyui :  bul  hii  hind  diDpt 

tllatu,  from  ijio  10  iijj,  a  Tjluible.    oiuon 

SElisSi3'!«iS-.i'«"'«C 

miHled  to  Le  Clerr'i  TOlumB  >l  hi>  Iclnirc, "  u 

or  lUla  ID  variety.    AbM  OaUoii  waa  IRignenlly 

in  ineihiuitible  nunc  of  imuKmenl  ind  in- 

diverted  from  continuing  hit  >Dumal,  and  Fonle- 

qelie  lematki,  thai  thii  occupation  waa  too  n- 

BuirwBiu  ind  L-EHrtiTT,     two  leimed  Prc- 

ijioto  il40,in  Mioiumaiour  ownlilenlure 

c<»ldnolmi«thechicnuof  meLingin  a  pew 

Kiicd  him  :  Ihli  interrupted  petpelually  the  rrgu. 
lirity  which  the  pohlLc  eipect.  from  1  jonmalial. 
To   dcKTibe  the   character  of  a    perfect  jour- 

wrilMD  by  Bine  literujr  Pienthmeo,  noUced  by 

La  Croie  Id  hi>  "Voyige  hlteniR," who deiig- 

Mlo  Ihe  writen  in  Ihi>  mott  tutiliiing  mwner : 

naliil,  would  be  only  an  ideal  pormitt    There 

ire  however  aorne  icquirtmenO  which  ire  india- 

CI  k  uianl  Ml.  0."    Poinritr  hu  been  pirtinllr 

m™™''^5"  ■iLt''^\fi."w^«j.  Z^^ 

Jeet  of  in  Edition  of  Vcilciui  Pitcrculm.    +hi. 

almort  diatinet  ftom  any  other,    tl  ii  the  reaall  of 

luctul  ucount  of  only  Enitliih  booti  begini  in 

'nl^'fn'Si'urt^''and  pn'iwl  "oflhe  ag^  «hl£ 

Toinmc.  hy  Or.  MiTt,  1  foreign  phj^'ciin  re«d- 

lliaveathejDumaliit  horn  »me  ridicnloui  blno- 

den.    We  often  tee  Ihe  mind  of  1  reviewer  half  a 

ini  in  London :  (hi>  Joomil  eihibili  >  Tiew  of 

eenlurr  itmole  fnm  the  work  reiicwcd.    A  fine 

UiiBOHbatDwT.high  chineteronttieJoiiri.'.3- 
ill.  who  umetims  ''Mpira  ID  Ibc  chancier  of  1 

iRbni  of  the  variou.  minnen  of  wriien.  wltt,  a 

and  to  wfn  the  untmciable,  ihould  be  hla  xudyj 

bul  Candour  ii  the  hiighleit  gem   Df  critlcinn  1 
dble,  nor  ihmild  he  lulTer  the  whole  to  pan  it  If 

iheacboDloIFoDlenelle." 

HiTT'a  ion  Biodueed  hen  1  micw  known  lo 

Ibecuiinni,  biiuyJe  and  deci..on.  often  diKDfCT 

he  trembled  to  touch  il.    Lampoou,  andaibiei, 

ban  lad  heit.  w>lh  »m  Bnking  nb»Y.iinna: 

aUuding  ID  hii  father,  Hitv,  in  hi>  motto,  ipplin 

ViTgll'i  dctcription  of  the  yonng  AKWiui :  "  Be- 

Ihe  'lubjicl,  rithci  thin  on  Ihe  »att  he  crlddia. 

qnituT  raf  on  non  pauhn.  rquih"    He  uv.  he 

pige.,  whil  Ihe  lulhor  himaelf  haa  not  been  able 

but  criiiciun  demindi  moRmiiuriiyDfTCflntian 

hitian  of  canying  on  Ihii  reiiew  wftboot  in  lan- 

dence  by  a  popular  deluilan  and   by  unworthy 

tiate,  be  huihownitifOlly  and  lb  danger  1  foci 

peiiDdlcal  labonra  and  hii  life 
Other  reiiewi,  are  the  Utnuirti  ii  Trrvnx, 

The  moat  noble  eritldim  b  that.  In  which  the 

critic  It  not  the  intagonM  ao  mnch  la  the  rival  of 

wTilten  br  me  Jeauita.     Their  caiMic  ceniuie 

Ibtii  day;  they  ifid  not  even  nare  their  htotbera. 
The  J-™/  LhitriiW,,  printeJ  u  ihe  Hig«,  and 

SECOVEItr  OF  MASVSCRtPTS. 


pCfirfKd :  intny  we  poacn  tn  bul  fragmrnti ; 
■ad  cfauice,  btind  ■rbllo'  or  the  vorkj  ofgcniui 
ham  glTm  uf  vnne  not  of  the  higheil   value 

■■  t  led  la  fbow  the  petUntry  of  those  who  adon 

L'tltm  ill  C'fua4ii.  why  w*  have  loM  i  greil 

bnt  bf  the  Baraceiu,  which  deprifed  Europt 
oflbe  nic  of  the  t'fy^<-    The  ignonnce  of  Ihal 

ftomu  miDuicTipb,    and    lodi 
The  most  elreant  compodHom 

their  ^miniihed  headi'*   lo  prBcev?  the  ' 

ToJvniDoui  iqtbon  were  the  greilo]  ml 

the  ^reatat,  k  moat  pTolilabLy  rrpajd  th( 
■QDying  Iqduilry,  umI  luniiiheil  ampler  icc 


tothetmillerwaTluafC 


inagea  prefemi 

kwi  agoURome,  i  part  of  ■  boo»  of  Llvj  w 

ef^ced,  OD  which  they  ha^  lubatitnled  a  book 

Ri^Mici  ih<wi  the  Eale  o(  •ncknl  maniucripti. 

ration  the  prtfaTu  authon^  jppean  by  ■  EiceUowt 
uecdote.    To  reail  the  clanci  waa  coiuidered  la 
a  Yery   idle  tccreaUon,   and   tome  held  them 
greit  horror.     To  dbcio^iih  them  fcom  oi 

Dtonk  Hiked  fdr  a  piKto  author,  alter  making 
■mcTaJ  Hgn  they  ufed  in  their  manuat  and  III . 

bit  ear,  u  ■  dog,  which  f«li  an  itching,  acratchn 
hLmielf  In  that  place  with  bi»  paw— &ecau»e,  aaic 
they,  an  unbelirrer  b  compared  to  >  dov  I  In  thl 
manner  tbey  eipreiaed  an  iuhjaf  for  tbofle  dtgt 


Ht.  of  R^  an  Arabian  writer,  to  make  a 
T,  A«n  the  HbtDT  of  the  bcoHr  ci(  rirto,  wtth- 


Icd  to  111,  their 
onEntulaQoni, 


S^a  I     Ok,  unexpected  reUcity  t     I  intreat  you, 

on  Foggto^  diKorery  of  a  copy  of  Qulotiliin. 
Some  oi  the  half-witted,  who  joined  in  thtirreat 

on  the  bui^^ng  amaleur  of  minnicripta,  whoae 

he  who  iiad  Ixxn  moat  njccaifu]  in  acquiring 
manuvcripti  wai  envied  by  the  leia  lottunale,  and 


tioni  into  Italy  of  mandfcrlptt  from  Asa,  Jotin 
Auriipa,  who  brought  many  hundredi  of  Greek 

profane  than  vcted  writen;  wtikh  cimmflance 
he  lirUi  ua  WH  owtnc  to  tbe  Oreeki,  wbo  w«utd 
not »  ea^  pari  wiiE  tbcekigicil  wwki,  but  tbey 
did  not  highly  value  pnluc  wrlten  I 

alwiyi  ImprlioBed  IB  Ubnrfea,  but  lottlni  In  ob- 
livion; In  dark  DBfrcqoaitedconicn  with  mbhU. 
It  Tcqnited  no  leia  Ingenalty  to  tnd  ool  placa 

of  the  •cqaWtkn,  when  obliliicd.    An  nnlnnal 


8 


nECOVERY  OF  MANUSCRIPTS, 


ignorance  then  prerailed  in  the  knowledge  of 
ancient  writers.  A  scholar  of  those  times  gave 
the  first  rank  among  the  Latin  writers  to  one 
Valerius,  whether  he  meant  Martial  or  Maximus  u 
uncertain ;  he  placed  Plato  and  TuUy  among  the 
poets,  and  imagined  that  Bnnius  and  Statins 
were  cotemporaries.  A  library  of  six  hundred 
volumes  was  then  considered  as  an  extraordinary 
collection. 

Among  those  whose  lives  were  devoted  to  this 
purpose,  Poggio  the  Florentine  stands  distin* 
guished ;  but  he  complains  that  his  zeal  was  not 
aasbted  by  the  great.  He  found  under  a  heap  of 
rubbish  in  a  decayed  cofier,  in  a  tower  belonging 
to  the  monastery  of  St.  Gallo,  the  work  of  Quin- 
tilian.  He  is  indignant  at  its  forlorn  situation;  at 
least,  he  cries,  it  should  have  been  preserved  in  the 
library  of  the  monks;  but  I  found  it  in  tetenimo 
quodam  tt  obtcuro  carcere — and  to  his  great  joy 
drew  it  out  of  its  grave !  The  monks  have  been 
complimented  as  the  preser%'ers  of  literature,  but 
by  facts  like  the  present,  their  real  affection  may  be 
doubted. 

The  most  valuable  copy  of  Tacitus,  of  whom  so 
much  b  wanting,  was  likewise  discovered  in  a 
monastery  of  Westphalia.  It  is  a  curious  circum- 
stance  in  literary  hbtory,  that  we  should  owe 
Tacitus  to  this  single  copy ;  for  the  Roman  em- 
peror of  that  name  had  copies  of  the  works  of  his 
illustrious  ancestor  placed  in  all  the  libraries  of  the 
empire,  and  every  year  had  ten  copies  transcribed ; 
but  the  Roman  libraries  seem  to  have  been  all 
destroyed,  and  die  imperial  protection  availed  no- 
thing against  the  teeth  of  time. 

The  original  manuscript  of  Justinian's  code  was 
discovered  by  the  Pisans,  accidentally,  when  they 
took  a  city  in  Calabria ;  that  vast  cotie  of  laws  had 
been  in  a  manner  unknown  from  the  time  of  that 
emperor.  Thb  curious  book  was  brought  to  Pisa, 
and  when  Pisa  was  taken  by  the  Florentines,  was 
transferred  to  Florence,  where  it  is  still  preserved. 

It  sometimes  happened  that  manuscripts  were 
discovered  in  the  last  agonies  of  existence.  Papi- 
rius  Masson  found,  in  the  house  of  a  bookbinder  of 
Lyons,  the  works  of  Agobart ;  the  mechanic  was 
on  the  point  of  using  the  manuscripts  to  line  the 
covers  of  his  books.  A  page  of  the  second  decade 
of  Livy  it  b  said  was  found  by  a  man  of  letters  in 
the  parchment  of  1^  battledore,  while  he  was 
amusing  himself  in  the  country.  He  hastened  to 
the  maker  of  the  battledore — but  arrived  too  late  ! 
The  man  had  finished  the  last  page  of  Livy — about 
a  week  before  I 

Many  works  hare  undoubtedly  perished  in  thb 
manuscript  state.  By  a  petition  of  Dr.  Dee  to 
Queen  Mary,  in  the  Cotton  library.  It  appears  that 
Cicero's  treatise  dt  lUpubUca  was  once  extant  in 
thb  country.  Huet  observes  that  Petronius  was 
probably  entire  in  the  dap  of  John  of  Salisbury, 
who  quotes  fragment^  not  now  to  be  found  in  the 
remains  of  the  Roaun  bard.  Rairoond  Soranzo,  a 
lawjrer  in  the  papal  court,  pOMeaed  two  books  of 
Cicero  on  Gk>ry,  which  be  presented  ^a  Petrarch, 
who  lent  them  to  a  poor  aoed  man  of  letters,  for> 
merly  hb  preceptor.  Urgra  by  extreme  want,  the 
old  man  pawned  them,  and  returning  home  died 
suddenly  without  having  revealed  where  he  had  left 
them.  They  have  never  been  recovered.  Petrarch 
speaks  of  them  with  ecstasy*  and  tells  ns  that  be 


had  studied  them  perpetuallv:  Two  centuries 
afterwards  thb  treatise  on  Giory  by  Cicero  was 
mentioned  in  a  catalogue  of  books  bequeathed  to 
a  monastery  of  nuns,  but  when  inquirra  after  was 
missing;  it  was  supposed  that  Petrus  Alcyonius, 
physician  to  that  household,  purloined  it,  and  after 
transcribing  as  much  of  it  as  he  could  into  bbown 
writings,  tuul  destroyed  the  original.  Alc>'onius, 
in  hb  book  di  Exilie,  the  critics  obsen'cd,  had 
many  splendid  passages  which  stood  isolated  in  hb 
work,  and  were  quite  above  hb  genius.  The 
beggar,  or  in  thb  ca%  the  thief,  was  detected  by 
mending  hb  rags  with'  patches  of  purple  and 
gold. 

In  thb  age  of  manuscript,  there  b  reason  to 
believe,  that  when  a  man  of  letters  accidentally 
obtained  an  unknown  work,  he  did  not  make  the 
fairest  use  of  it,  and  cautiously  concealed  it  from 
hb  contemporaries.  Leonard  Arctino,  a  distin- 
guished scholar  at  the  dawn  of  modem  literature, 
having  found  a  Greek  manuscript  of  Procopius 
de  BeUe  GothicOf  translated  it  into  Latin,  and  pub- 
lished the  work,  but  concealing  the  author's  name, 
it  passed  as  hb  own,  till  another  manuscript  of  the 
same  work  being  dug  out  of  its  grave,  the  fraud  of 
Aretino  was  apparent.  Barbosa,  a  bishop  of  U  gen  to, 
in  1649,  has  printed  among  hb  works  a  treatise, 
which,  it  b  said,  he  obtained  by  having  perceived 
one  of  hb  domestics  bringing  in  a  fish  rolled  in  a 
leaf  of  written  paper,  which  hb  curiosity  led  him 
to  examine.  He  was  sufficiently  interested  to  run 
out  and  search  the  fish  market,  till  he  found  the 
manuscript  out  of  which  it  had  been  torn.  He 
published  it  under  the  title  de  Officio  Episeopi.. 
Machiavelli  acted  more  adroitly  in  a  similar  case ; 
a  manuscript  of  the  Apophthegms  of  the  ancients 
by  Plutarch  having  fallen  into  hb  hands,  he 
selected  those  which  pleased  him  the  best,  and 
put  them  into  the  mouth  of  hb  hero  Castrucio 
Castricani. 

In  more  recent  times,  we  might  collect  many 
eurious  anecdotes  concerning  manuscripts.  Sir 
Robert  Cotton  one  day  at  hb  tailor's,  discovered 
that  the  man  was  holding  in  hb  hand,  ready  to  cut 
up  for  measures — an  original  Magna  Charta,  with 
all  its  appendages  of  seab  and  signatures.  He 
bought  the  singular  curiosity*  for  a  trifle,  and  re- 
covered in  thb  manner  what  had  long  been  given 
over  for  lost !  Thb  anecdote  b  told  by  Colomies, 
who  long  resided,  and  died  in  this  country.  An 
original  Magna  Charta  is  preserved  in  the  Cottonian 
library;  it  exhibits  marks  of  dilapidation,  but 
whether  from  the  invisible  scythe  of  time,  or  the 
humble  scissors  of  the  tailor,  I  leave  to  archaio- 
logical  inquir}'. 

Cardinal  Granvelle  carefully  preserved  all  hb 
letters ;  he  left  behind  him  several  chests  filled  with 
a  prodigious  quantity,  written  in  different  lan- 
guages, commented,  noted,  and  underlined  by  his 
own  hand.  These  curious  manuscripts,  after  hb 
death,  were  left  in  a  garret  to  the  mercy  of  the 
rain  and  the  rats.  Five  or  nx  of  these  chests  the 
steward  sold  to  die  grocers.  It  was  then  that  a 
discovery  was  made  of  thb  treasure.  Several 
learned  men  occupied  themselves  in  collecting  as 
many  of  these  litenry  relics  as  they  possibly  could. 
What  were  saved  formed  eighty  thick  folios. 
Among  these  original  ktten  are  found  great  num- 
ben  written  by  almost  all  the  crown^  heads  in 


l^.sr'c 


SKETCHES  OF  CRITICISM. 


scale  in  Scotluid.  bit 


After  me  n 


MoM^gDeMounut  of  hbTnveli  inlo  ltil)f  hiie 
been  but  KcenUir  puhUihcd.  A  ptebendir)'  o( 
Fcrigonl,  mircUlnR  thraugh  thi>  proTince  Id  make 

doceiuUnl  or  thU  great  miin.    He  inquifcdforthe 


HoDCUEne,  The  prebcnd«r)'i  with  philosophical 
iBtitpiaiEy,  Mifled  himKLf  Id  cloutU  of  4lu3(»  and  al 
lengu  drew  out  the  orkgiDAl  nanuiieripc  of  the 
tiuelt  of  HonliJene.  Two-tbinU  of  the  work  ire 
in  the  hindwritlne  of  Mantaigne,  and  the  ml  u 


who  ler^  u  hit  le 


i»ter  in  the  thinl 
dicing  ■>  Ihe  mtamam  and  the  < — " 


■A  llonlawne'9.  The  bad 
made  il  aUwit  UQii»i.-lli|i 


■ute^pcn  of  Thuiloe'i,  (be  lecrelarr  of  Crom- 
well, which  formed  abour  leircnty  •olumei  in  the 
ori^nil  iiunuicripu,  accidenuU)'  fell  oul  of  Ibe 

A  contidbnble  portion  of  Lady  Mary  WorOer 

lerlpti  in  the  bcnily  papen  of  the  docemlanli  of 
celebrated  peTiom;  but  po^thomoui  publicationi 


.    The  mali^ant  buflooneiy 


but' though  mme  wi 


ttilD,  who  hai  been  called,  hy 
Alexandria,  the  Miiaea  of  Alheni ;  the 
of  the  Chriiliini,  by  Arnot)iu>i  and  the  gnd  of 
phjknophen.  by  Cicem;  Attaenatni  ueinn  of 
envy;  'liieopompu,  of  lyinyj  Suidas.  of  ara- 
rice  I  Aulm  Uelllui,  of  nriiber;:  Rirpbyly,  of 
inconlihnice ;  and  Arialophann,  of  impUty. 

Arittotle,  vboie  jnduitiy  rompooed  more  Ihan 


he  celebrity  of  DemociilM,   that  he  pmooied 
niming  all  hii  worici ;  but  Ihit  Amydii  and  Cll- 


nnus  hH  nurked  h 


..._^orJty  of  the  critici  recard  PUny'i 
HiitOEy  onlv  u  a  heap  of  fahin;  and  a 


?"dSd«™w™l 


I  elegant  romance, 
Livy  hai  been  repnucfaed  for  b 


THE  PERSECUTED  LEARNED. 


cannny:  wtalk  the  linn  hu  ■ 
ticitlie  OB  Ibc  m>lignllr  of  Herodonu. 
phon  and  Quintui  Curliui  hm  iKea  com 

hn  been  cenioied  tor  hii  aiidiciljr  \n  pret< 
to  diKOTcr  Ibc  polllkil  f  priop  and  Kcnl 

elibontc  attack  on  Thucrdidca  for  the  UDikUful 
ctaaicc  of  hii  nbject  abd  hia  minncT  al  treating 
It,    Dlonnim  would  hare  nothing  — "* —  ""■' 


5 


a  been  blamed  bj  Cato  foi  indulging 


wphu.  i 


hia  ilory  to  make  them  appear  venerable  and 
diBmilied  to  Iheir  conquerDEa,  and  for  thaa  purpoae. 


10  vamly  eilol.     Cold  In  hii  ejitemporaneou 

hii  itrained  nilleiy,  and  tireaome  in  hia  di^rci 
aiont.    Thrt  i9  laying;  a  good  de^  about  Ckero, 

Quinliliin  don  nol  iparc  Seneia ;  and  Demoi 
thenea,  called  by  Citero  the   pnnce  of  onion, 

Tht  Altk  Kiriiii  of  Anina  Oetljiu.  and  tbe 
DcipnOiophifta  of  Athenkua^  wbilc  Ibey  havi 
been  ektolled  b^  one  partjr^  hate  liecn  degraded  bj 

of  laga  and  lemnanti ;  Ibtit  lUlignKe  hai  not  beei 
■ccompjinied  br  judinnenr;  and  their  laste  in 
-"-'^- "  llJeftvoloua  than  to  the  nieful 


made  in  their  lankai  i 
n  vtUcb  boneil  Buntm 

of  no  worth  (bemiehrea^  ai 


10  Kx  them  ncepteil  by  ih 
ipeechei.  and  to  foreign  nation*. 


racBluj,  tormented  by  his  conntTymen,'  hmke  a« 
ci.nj  lod  chyniijlj^Gerbeil,  Roger  Bacon.  (D<i 

poni.S.le'b/h^ing*^* 


ibtalned  the 


ViTgilim.  iiAmi  of  SaKlbniB,  baring  iMrtCd 
that  there  cxulea  antipodes,  the  archbiAop  of 

to  the  flamea:  mod  the  Abbot  TrilhemiiK,  arho 
WIS  fond  of  improTins  stcranography,  or  the  ait 

orliiinal  work,  which  wai  in  bil  library,  to  be 
publicly  bnml, 

Oalllco  was  condemned  at  Rome  pubUcJj  lo 
disavow  Kntimcnts.  the  truth  of  which  most  have 
been  10  him  abundantly  maoifcit.  "An  tbae 
then  my  judgei  V  he  eaclaimed  in  letirlni  Aom 
the  Inquiiiion,  whoie  ignorance  aitoniihed  him. 
He  wat  Impiisaned,  and  rliited  by  Hilton,  who 

of  fail  widow,  takine  advantage  of  her  piety, 
pcTuaed  the  araa-  of  imii  great  philosopher,  and 
deatvoyed  such  as  in  his  juipiuni  were  nol  fit  to 


fOYERTY  OF  THE  LEARNED. 


iW  VnM,  In  bn  ipiAicr  Tor 
fho  luve  been  ucued  of  mi 
■  mdubcbohr  number  of  the  m 


CDnKKn  Agiipp*  WB  lomHUcd  to  f\y  bu 
'  't  Uhl  IhE  cnjoymEnt  irf  i  Um  in«}me, 
lor  hftvlDA  dlapla>'eil  i  Tew  phUoiophLcil 
MntB,  which  now  eveiT  fchoaibay  ud 
I ;  bnl  more  pirticuliTly  hiviog  iCtuked 
uc  vidi  prevallkDg  opinion^  tfut  9i,  Anne  h«d 
ant  hndmdK  be  wu  »  riolcnUy  pcnccuted, 
tkit  be  WH  oblM  to  fly  rmm  pLicE  to  plice. 
Tbc  peofte  bebtU  bim  u  in  ob^cut  of  harroTj 
Okd BMvafRqnenUr.  wfacn  he  wiiked,  he  (ound 

boiplttL  '      '" " 

Aghpf*  wv  wppofeij  to  be  «  demon.    ^A^ien 

led  n  tbe  lUke,'!  large  flyKttled  on  hb  beid;  a 
monk,  who  hul  heaid  thit  Becliebub  agniAa  in 
Hebrew  tbe  Ood  of  Flio,  reported  thai  be  law  Ibb 

LugeAr,  A  Prcncb  cnlnhter,  vbo  employed  mtny 
tpKK  vu  rref]iient1)r  lecuttd  of  dteboUcaJ  com- 

Roger  Bacon,  Cjcur  Bor)(ia,  hb  ton  Aleunder  Vl^ 
iBd.oIlien,  like  Socnlet,   bad  their  diabolical 

Cudan  wai  beUered  lo  be  a  ma^ciin.  The  fact 

arcau  of  nature  wb  immediately  (uipeclcd  of 
magic-  ETCn  the  learned  themielvei,  who  had  not 
applied  to  natural  pbiloaophy,  acem  to  have  acted 


lo  the  mortihcatioD  of  Albert,  anniblUted  tbe 

It  from  the  thunder  of  the  prieati,  by  whom  both 
be  and  hii  brother  poet*  were  continunlLy  threal- 
cned.    Th^  could  not  imagine  a  poet,  without 

muflc.  The  lijfhtl  of  philoicphy  have  diipcned 
all  Iheae  accuaationa  of  magic,  and  have  thown  a 

Dcacarta  wai  boTTibly  penecuied  la  Holland, 
when  he  Rm  publiahed  bil  Olnniuna.     Voeliua,  a 

of  atheiam,  and  had  eren  piojected  In  hli  mind  to 
ban  thii  philoaophet  buml  u  Utrecht  In  an  ei' 


"  If  the  metaphyajcian  fltood  a  chance  of  tidng 

uml  as  a  heretic,  the  natural  philDaophcT  wa ' 

I  lev  jeopardy  ai  a  magician/*  la  an  obaeiTj 


TRI  LEARNED. 
Ha  baa  rarelir  condescended  to  be 
her  palace  i  (here  ii  but  one  open,  and 
:  to  erect  an  aaylum  for  renerable  ^eniui, 
eni,  it  might  be  iucribeil,  i  Hcoplul  fur 
or  gcniui  from  famine,  Charity  ought, 
by  the  belplett  member,  but  a  juit  tribute 

igbtenH  timet  tucb  have  lived  in  obicu- 
...c  their  reputation  waa  widely  apread  i  and 
bavepetiihed  in  poverty,  vhilc  their  worka  were 
enriching  tbe  bookieUen. 

Of  the  heroei  of  modem  Utenlure  the  acconnO 
iR  Ba  copious  ai  they  are  melancboly. 
Xylander  lold  hu  notei  on  Dion  Cavm  for  a 

ic  ttudled  to  acquire  glory,  but  at  Iwenty-nvc  be 


(triumphed  in   the   Batt  India,  and  aule^ 
c  had  not  performed  tiii  promiK  m  writin^ 


13                                          POVERTY  OF  TBE  LEASHED.                                               \ 

Ihii  he  wu  obUgeil  to  homw  a  ciown  from  i 
friend  10  lutxUI  iBnugh  thf  week.    He  illudei  to 
hu  distte*  in  »  prcHv  unnel,  which  he  «ldreBe) 
to  hii  at,  encrejtirg  her  lo  unX  him.  during  Ihe 

nijhl.  wilh  the  luitre  of  her  eye»-"  Kin  avinrf. 

day,  the  king  asked  whal  there  was  new  in  the 

^-M,  pn-  i..rn.nt  i »»  vpii  r  hwiog  no  c.ndle 

Uterair  world  f     Kacine  answered,  that  he  bul 

seen  a  melaocholy  speclacle  in  the  bouie  of  Cor- 

iKtllc,  whom  he  found  dying,  depii.cd  eren  of 

uto  to  buiid  anniU  houe,  it  Kcnu  that  il  wo 

a  little  broth  1    The  king  pieierved  a  profound 

■Uence  1  and  lenl  the  dying  poel  a  sum  of  money. 

»■•  not  hi  Cor  OIK  who  hid  nuxd  »  naay  tine 

Drydeo,  (or  lets  than  Ibiee  bundled  pounds 

BtuctuTt  of  uonfi  iDdlhu  of  ilfui  wa  not  the 

by  the  ^rcemcnt  vhkh  has  been  published. 

«me  thing.    ■'  Chi  ftrul  II  firm,  I  ami  U  fa- 
ro/,,™iKm«l,in»r    AtFm»ilhiihowl> 

Purchal,  who,  in  the  reign  of  Dur  rirsi  Janei, 
bid  spent  hb  hfc  In  travels  and  stud/  to  form  his 

■till  ihown.    "PiTTi  ted  apti"  be  ealk  il,  bat 

Silallom  tf  Ihi   »M<f,   when  he  gare  il  lo  Ihe 

viulu  that  it  wai  paid  with  hii  own  maney.   Thli 

public,  for  tbe  reward  of  his  labours  was  thrown 

wai  in  a  momeni  of  gond-humcnir,  which  be  did 
not  alwifi  enjoy;  fof  in  hi>  Satires  he  WtKrIy 

into  prttan,  al  Ibe  suit  of  his  printer.     Yel  thii 
was  tbe  book  which,  he  informs  us  in  his  dedica- 

tion lo  Charles  tbe  First,  hit  father  read  every  night 

IMji-erty.    Little  ihoughi  the  poci  the  onmuu 

woDld  Older  thU  unal)  houit  to  be  purchased  with 

The  Marquit  of  Woreoler,  In  i  petition  lo 

■heir  awn  fundi.  Ihit  it  might  be  dedicated  to  hii 

parUameut,  in  the  leign  of  Charles  11.,  odeied 
to  publish  the  hundn^  procevs  and  machlnet. 

TIk  illuitrioui  Cardioil  BentimgllD,  the  orna- 

ment of  naly  and  ol  lilenlure,  languiihed,  in  hi> 

old   age.   in  the  mnil  distresful  poveitn   and 
having  Mid   hli   palKC  lo  tatbA'  Jiis  CRdiInn, 

grauled  to  eilricate  him  ftom  the  tfUtculiiri  in 

wtich  hi  hut  BFVilvii  hiwlf.  Ky  Iht  pniinlun 

kamed  mmponiu)  Lctiu  Urcd  in  auch  a  state  of 

pear  to  iiiire  beta  attended  to  1     Many  of  these 

povenr,  that  hii  friend  plaiina,  who  wrote  the 
En.  of  the  poff.  and  also  a  booh  of  cookef>-, 

adminbk  inrenliam  were  lost.    The  iiiiih  ocns 

and  the  lilrpafh  may  be  traced  among  them. 

Introduces  him  into  the  cookeiy  book  by  a  face- 

It  appean  b/  the  Hailcian  H>t.  tsk,  that  Snsh- 
worth,   the  author  of  "HhtoricJ  CoUectkia," 

tioua  obictrjlloa,  that  it  Pomponiui  Lstus  should 

be  robbed  nt  a  couple  of  eggi,  hewouk)  not  have 

passed  the  Ian  yean  of  hit  life  in  jjdi.  where  Indeed 

tented  to  the  kiiK  in-ctil  of  the  privy  council's 
books,  which  he  had  pretcrred  from  ruin,  he  re- 

having eipended  a  latge  fortune  in  forming  hii 

?,"=,".'=- &.Si",5S"5£ 

ceived  for  his  only  reward  the  flbiiiti^AJiin^Hy. 

Kymcc,  the  collector  of  the  Ftrdcra,  must  hive 

hospital  of  that  city  to  whose  fame  he  bad  emi- 

been  sadly  reduced,  bv  the  ftaiowing  lellet,  1  found 

addre«cd  by  Peter  le  Neve,  NofToy,  to  Ihe  Uari  of 

itrained'to'ubour  with  rapidity,  and' lo  lire  in 

the  cotlaee  of  an  obscuN  Tillage.    Mis  bookseller 
bought  Ms  heroic  mso  lor  one  hundred  sols  the 
hundied  llnci,  and  tbe  imaller  ones  lot  fifty  uli. 

bisad'iirt.    He  w»  Ibncd  some  yean  back  to  wt 
Wirhall  his  duriee  printed  bootlo«.b«.<  iKi. 

self  1  and  now.  he  say^  be  must  be  ftnced,  fat  tab- 

cieca  of  hi>  teceplion  by  a  poor  and  ingenioua 

uflence,  to  sell  aU  hit  Hi.  cnllecDoni  to  the  bat 

Tuthor  >n  >  vi.lt  Ik  paid  to  Du  Rytc  1    "  Un  a  line 

bidder,  wilboDl  your  hifdship  will  be  pleased  to 

buythemfcir  thenuecn-t  libraii-.    1-he<r  are  tiftr 
lolumcs,  in  folio,  of  public  affairs,  which  he  halt 

from  town.    He  receiitd  us  with  joy,  talked  lo 

us  of  bii  numerous  projects,  and  showed  us  scleral 

collected,  but  not  pnnled.   The  price  he  asks  is 

of  his  works.    But  what  more  interoied  lu  wn. 

■hat  though  dreading  tu  show  us  his  pocerty,  he 

Simon  Ockky,  1  lean«l  student  in  Oriental 

lilentuR,  addii-Bn  a  letter  lo  Ihe  time  earl,  in 

•eated  ounelves  under  a  wide  oak,  the  tableclolh 

After  having  devoted  hit  lite  to  ASaUc  researches. 

was  spread  on  the  gras.,  his  wife  brought  u>  some 

milk,  »,.h  Inah  water  and  brown  bread   and  he 
picked  a  basket  of  eheiTie..  He  welcomed  us  wilb 

daliat  his  prebce  to  his  i;Kit  K-ork  from  Cam- 

liaiely, but  we  could  not  ukc  leave  of  this  amiable 

bridge  CisUe,  when  he  w»  tooSned  for  debt, 

and.  with  an  air  of  triumph,  hels  a  man,rt  a- 

so  iL  treated  by  fortune,  and  to  hare  nothing  kl* 

thuriism  in  tbe  «n>e  Eur  whtcll  be  perisheL 

Hepubllibcd  bis  first  nlume  or  the  HLtotyof 

V>u^^,  the  inost  pofishcd  writer  of  th<  French 

lanRua«,-1»de.wrilWr«:y™^hi.^(raoito. 

Oriental  studuis,  publiilied  his  secfrnd^nnK  ten 

yeaniftetwards,wlthontinypalronaic.   Alluding 

died  possesKd  of  nothing  raluabk  bul  hit  precioua 

youth,  to  lemon  the  obtucks  lu  suVh  .ludie^  he 

IMPRISONMENT  OF  THE  LEARNED.                             ij  | 

sbaOTB,  Ibat  "  TOnng  men  mil  hardly  come  in 
on  Ihe  protpcel  of  finding  Ituure,  in  a  pn»n.  In 
Omnacnbe  ihoac  papeii  lor  Ihc  pre«,  which  Ihej 
hare  coliectcd  witb  inderili^ble  labour,  and  olten- 
timei  al  Ihe  eipenie  of  IheHnat,  and  all  Ihc  other 

eqKrience,  that  /  lint  ivitjii  <wn  imi  (ifterij, 

kr  taawi  iaw  la  livt  iaurtf.—Vot  that  1  ipeak 
lh«  a>  if  1  Ihonght  1  had  anyiua  cauK  lo  be 
angrr  with  the  world— I  did  aiwap  in  my  judg- 
ment gire  the  poaesinn  of  •B^dwii  the  pnferencc 

Bpenaer.  the  child  of  Fancy,  iM^iohed  out  hii 
IJfc  In  miiery.    "Lord  Burfeigh,"  aaya  Ormger. 

hundred  pmindi,  geema  lo  hare  thought  the  lowtJt 
clerk  in  hit  office  a  more  dnerring  penon."    Mr. 
Halnne  allempU  In  thow  Dial  SpeoKr  had  (  imill 

Toloae  good  daj-a-to  waile  longnighB-and  a; 

To  ipeed',  lo  give,  to  want,  Jo  be  un'dnne  I"' 

Hsw  alfceBng  H  Ihe  death  of  Svdenham,  »-ho 

bad  devoted  hiilife  to  a  labnrieix  rer>inn  o[  Pialo  • 

which  appean  lo  hare  given  riw  In  the  Litenrv 
rasd  "fcr  the  lelief  of.!i..rei«d  authota." 

WhoahallpuntieimpnRant  lahmin  when  Iher 
ladlheteancrdoleir    Dt.  Rdmnnd  Caatell  .pent 
■  gnat  partof  hi>  [;''''^'"^™g^''"E  hi.  i«l™n 

paina,  and  eapended  on  it  no  lr«  Ihaa  I),b9oI. 

lane.    At  Icnglh  il  wai  printed,  hnt  Ihe  cnpiea 
remained   H^Wd  on   hi.  hand..    He  eihitula  a 
curioji-  piciure  of  literary  lihnur  in  hia  pieEice. 

for  .uch  a  numher  of  yean  >n  IhH  inia^"  «£^- 
di*a  he  ealla  Ifaem,  ■'  Ifaii  lh>I  day  acemed,  ai  il 

mnch  B  Mnieen  or  eighteen  bnur.  in  ihoe  cniaig- 
ing  Iniconiand  Falyglal  Bible..'- 

It  Sage  nAded  in  a  nitle  cottage  while  he  lup- 
plied  Ihe  world  with  Iheirmoil  wreeahleKncb, 
and  appean  to  hare  derived  Ihe  aannea  of  hi. 
eOscnce  in  hi.  old  aite  fnm  ihe  gUai  eacition.  nf 

I  wiJi,  however!  that  crei,-  man  of  leltci.  could 
apply  lo  bimacif  Ihe  epitaph  of  Ihii  dellghlftd 

Par  le  ciaeau  rfe  la  Fanue  imponnnei 
a-llneftitpai  ami  dtia  (Mane, 

II  iBttonlaun  amide  la  vena. 
Many  yean  alter  thli  ailicle  had  been  written,  1 
-df  to  Ihoae  or  our  own  county. ;  Ihe  catalogue 'i. 

1MPRI90HMBNT  OF  TUB  LEAKNED. 

nf  letter,  in  the  pmijreB  of  hi.  itudie^  but  often 
unqunljnnabh  baa  greally  promoted  Ihem. 
lo  ph«n  Bocthim  compoKd  hii  work  on  the 

the  detail  of  lila  allotment  nf  Kme  lo  dilTuienl  ttn- 

Buchinin,  in  the  dungeon  of  a  monaitery  In 
■•Drtuivd,  compmed  hit  ocellenl  Paraphraaea  of 
the  Pulmi  of  David. 

the  dpiniih  language  duting  hi.  captivity  in  Bar- 

Pleti.  a  well-known  law  production,  wan  wrifi-n 
by  a  penon  mnSned  In  the  Fleet  lor  debt  -.  the 
name  of  tlic  pfarr.  though  not  that  of  Ilie  aulDar, 
h.utbuilieenprcKn'ed;  and  anotherwnrk. "  Fleu 
Minor,  ni  the  Law.  of  Arl  and  Nalare  in  knnwiu^ 
Ihe  Bodiei  nf  Metal.,  &c.  liy  Sir  John  PWtui,  HiKj  ,■■ 
who  gave  it  ihia  tllle  from  Ihe  eircumuance  of  hi. 

Loui.  the  TwclRh,  when  Duke  nf  Odeant,  wa. 

Margaret,  queen  of  Henry  Ihe  Fourth.  King  of 
France,  cophned    in  the  Louvre,  punned  very 
warmly  Ihe  itudiet  of  elegant  lileralure,  and  com- 

nf  her  conduct. 

al  Holmibr.  wmie  Ibe  Eilon  Buillke.  rn  R-fil 
Mut>,  advened  in  hi<nn:  thi.  work  haa,  hnir- 

^^jwl"  wa^lijf JP'^ble of'wJtln "he book; 

Queen  Blizaheih.  wliile'mnKned  hv  het  rirter 
Mao-,  wiole  Kvcral  noenn,  which  we  in  not  find 

It  la  wld  H«T  Queen  of  Scon,  dunng  her  long 

Sir  Walter  RalciRh-i  iinllniihcd  Hidorv  of  the 
World,  which  learn  in  lo  regret  Ihal  Utet  a*ei 
had  not  hern  «lchr.led  hy  hi.  nihlime  ehxguen^e. 

wia  wiillen  All  the  ax  nf  Fnuce  Henrr,  a.  he  and 

fame  prince,  hare  told  u. :  the  phnce  looked  orer 
themanuKTipt.    OfRalcighlt  ianb«tred,(orm- 
plovlhe  language  of  Hume,  "They  were  alruck 
Willi  Ihe  ellewn:  geniniof  Ihe  man,  who,  Dcing 
eiluciled  amidal  njival  and  iniliHry  rnterpriaea, 

■t  hhage,  and  under  hi.  circianMiBea,  esuld  ett- 
gage  hhn  In  undertate  and  eaeente  ao  great  a 
work,  ai  hi.  Hiatorv  of  Ihe  Wmld."    He  wai,  how- 
ever, aalirtcd  in  thi.  great  work  by  the  learning  of 

haa  not  been  noli  ted. 
The  plan  of  the  H-a.u,d-  wu  Jidched.  and 

-AMUSEMENTS  OF  TEE  LEABlfBD. 


ic  gmtCT  part  compocd,  by  Vi 


I,  by  Volt^re.  dnrtng  big 


nick,  which  weir  fail  publnhcJ  by  Pndaux.   He 


boun,  ibc  mind  ot  ibc  Uwftni 


duSdbt  nDbai 


tari\a  wh  employed  in  bit  Dtgrn^im  f^nUgitm, 
A  wort  of  the  awH  pnEEniiid  uuT exmMK  enidi- 
tion,  dK  «ett  ivcreition  of  tbc  letmcd  fjttbcr  wu 


gluta  for  kU  kiQdi  of  specticJa,  u 


:iatly  canDected  v< 

id  intiquiriin  curiostia;  ibc  Abbi  dc 
little  guden  i  in  the  morning,  occupied 


■.ngtdi 


lUof  emiDFal  powDi,  methodicjilly 


nntiUc  Mwp,  unkU  the  Kreti 
I  of  1  birge  on  (he  11111110,  wliict 
b<]i4n1ility  with  ihuhca]  delight. 

la  Picbmond,  And   (be  lilenry   intnci 
tlqgubrty   btppy   on 


Im  freM  philuitbrobttt. 


PORTRAITS  OF  AUTBOBS. 


Mudia :  hb  rtlutAl^ofk 


or  P^iwIiich.luthorilEil  bribe  pun,  bi  dedi- 


foo£b  «K.     3>'iK«iii»  compoaed  a  Qmk  pj 

piMc  o[  in  to  (how  how  It  could  cull  Uie 
ud  impU^  Ihe  Uuk.    To  iliii  ■mtrition  pcihjpi 

ofViigtl;  Uk  Bullciflj;  o(  Bprnicr  i  [I     "     ' 

bTUi^uL  iD'^^who  iroidd  null' 

,  obtcrviiw  ihp  cj 


It,  obtcrviiw  the  car- 


.m.     Ttid  wujumping  Ukc  a  polilicuQ  ;  and  bv 
m  racuii  u  Hid  to  tuTC  lai^ntitlcd  taimKU'  with 


fait  prodj^  cdLtDn  hiTC  rcrulcd  la  ihr  public, 
whcB  be  cauld  lercl  hii  mind  to  >uch  pcrpetiul 


line  in  fait  hind  ;  ■  Knngr  cbwla 
c  iuthor  of  *'lliiun]  Theology."  Ai 
ttm  caUcd  ugLiag  "  Idle  ttmc  sot  [dil 
:  tAAf  nppoae  Ifait  bl^  fuolitAtlotii  ui 
DCBti   wen  cuTicd  on  M  tbc  lun 


litoary  men,  in  rcgird  to  robiul   eierciK*.  tfatt 

the  fiver  ficultie*;   but  cliewherc  he  ilJowt  hla 

unuacmenl  which  wu  vcrjr  prcvjilent  imong  our 
poeti  rormeriy,  when  Ibey  exclaimed. 


ni^l  and  iiy.    The  mind  ii  nounibed  It  a  (heap 
lerrupl  this  exercise ;  (pve  Iherefore  all  your  cara 


"  l,likeapooraauii¥ei,ara  cantinually  in  motinn 
indeed,  but  it  ii  but  a  cage  of  three  foot ;  xny  little 
e:icuiNont  an  bke  ttioae  of  i  dbopkeepcr,  who 
walkterery  day  i  mile  or  two  before  biiowii  door, 

IwD  in  a  garden  will  oflen  Terr  hawnly  dote  ■  line 

ieriod,  mature  4D  ■inripcncdlhoughtpandraueup 
'eah  iHociaiiont,  when  tbc  mind  like  the  body 
becomei  ngid  hy  pieierriDg  the  ume  poflure. 
Buffcjn  nften  quitled  Ihe  apamnent  he  atndied  in, 
which  was  placed  in  the  midst  of  his  eardcn.  Tor  a 
walk  in  jt^  BTel)m  loved  "  books  aniia  garden." 


of  the  ancicAU  preftKlDg  portialta  to  tlie  worka  of 
anthon.  •cnen,  in  hrii  lUnlh  chapKt  dd  Um 
TnnquilUt]' of  the  toul,  comptiiDsofmaDroftlie 
luuiioiis  great,  who,  Uke  n  manr  oT  our  own 
coUccron,   pcuMuil  Utnaiia  aa   ibcT  did  Ihdr 


PORTRAITS  OF  AUTHORS 


^  plcuuEt,  tti  placing  t] 
3T  collecting  portriiq,  a 


ntinc  It  with  the  portraia 


phl-sognomvlil  jmrmannn,  olisiii  ™ 


fflAi  Knt  rhoac  hccDci 


I)',  Ibnn  a  (iKctacte  wUch  the 
might  CDnlcmpbte;  (ftt  if  the 


mfcniibly  led  to  tbc  hUtory  at  that  period. 


with  the  imager  w  portraits  of  the  great  men  t 
he  had  werallv  deacribed  tbeir  principal  *cta  an 


theie  pottraitj  (Old  Bruluawd 
iii  one  picture)  that  CircTD  aee 
Bnilni,  by  the  example  of  theic 
LQ  diBDliT  the  tyranny  of  Cza 
xiUcction  of  en)(raved  portraJ 

of  the  Athenian  courtesan,  whi 
*  banquet  with  her  InveT 


K  of  debauchery.    The  OrrcDtalutB  hai'c  felt 


L.  and,  in  bet,  they  poscBcd  the  ajt  of  prini 
without  being  i '  ■■'  "■ ■' — 


id  ilow ;  perhapf  they  v 


manrwJienn  are  itduce. 


Oriental  HcnKdia, "  eniplo>T 

'""1  of  all  the  priDci[ul  or 

OUTt  i"  the>'  la-ere  houn 

me,  arbenin,  a>  the  Aye 

tei  of  Aicber  expreflaea  it. 


B  AEtetT 


"■eie  pen. 

S"^tt^'"''of''i*  f?  "i™'""; 

ol^^'r^ 

nprcned  b>-  the  hand  ol 

u  attiat  with 

zharacren'    An  old  philnaophci  whom  Man 


1  fond  ol 


DESTRUCTION  OF  BOOKS. 


oVat  IniEidivtTlbutioiuof  VDod,  uid  witR,  and 
buikdin^  teiva  not  one  truze  in  1h?  memDry; 
UitoiicMl  pAintiAg  u  perpetually  fabc  in  ■  ruiny 
of  vqi,  in  Ihe  cntDme.  tin  (trouping,  tht  par- 
mM,  uiil  ■>  iKHtiinE  oiaic  Ihin  iibulnin  plinnng ; 
bbl  4  nal  poTtnit  u  truth  ilicK,  inJ  cjUb  up  u 
UB)'  lOUitenl  i<l»  B  to  lill  in  intcUigeDt  iniDiJ 
■DOR  tbn  taj  otlwr  ipecia." 

MmUlc  inw)'  Rpnhnidt  the  l>stidiaii>  fecllniti 
of  Ibgac  inieiiiou  nm  who  hate  roiiRil  the  uii- 
tUitkHia  of  the  ufia,  to  >il  (or  ihcir  porDiiii.    in 

Id  theae  vha  are  lea  difficult  in  Ihii  rapect  <X 
Gin,  BhenKoiK.  Finding,  ud  Akeniide,  we  hive 
to  Uada  fcif  whieh  they  Ht ;  ■  tircunmince  le- 
giened  by  their  idmiccn,  and  by  phranKDomiiti. 
Tci  an  arranged  CDlLectioii  of  PoaTMiTa,  we 
owe  •cteral  inlercning  wotki.    Grangecl  juatly 


fine  ana  aiul  licenttire  had  bad  engraved  ai  an  elc 
gantMbuteta  IhEfameollhDiegrcatnwB.  They 

lie  parent  of  Ibu  race  of  hooki  mav  perhipi  be 
the  BbMoidi  of  Pauhu  JoiHui,  wbich  orl^nated 
In  ■  boutlfld  CuiiMT,  whoK  iltuatlan  he  tut  de- 


hki  hiH  an  ApoHo  preided  milh  hb  lyre,  and  the 
Hoaea  wHb  mcb  BlRihum ;  hi)  Ubnij-  wai  eiurd- 
_j  ■._.  •-_-. — .  — i  -^  ^_„. — jji  iipi^m^j  to  (}k 

igkind,    8u<'ta»a> 


and  p^ntinto  of  the  i 

the  intertoT  ■    Wiihnul,  the  | 

lake  (pKid  iN  bioad  minut. 


while  Ihe  bank) 

Liiireli.  and  in  the  diMancc. 


.._ -if  the  Alpmrerira 

dihl  pdstura^  and  ^nnUed  with  hetdi 

ntre  of  thii  enchanting  hihitatlon  ttood 


the  (iicH  tSey  pr 


■1  hisory  i  and  ))e  punued  in  their  ct 


"any  "^JP^'"' 


copy.    The  fallbful  Venue  reTiued  to  engrave  for 

Bum  are  not  u  liable  to  Ihae  acrideno.  It  b  tn 
be  repeltEd  thai  men  of  geoiui  have  not  been 
careful  to  tranimit  their  own  pailrain  Id  their  id- 
mireri ;  it  formi  a  part  of  iheir  character ;  a  tibe 
delicacy  baa  Inlerlcred.    Ersmua  did  not  like  to 

lerlRibut  Hirihein  waa  alw»^  aecctiODalclypwir 

Kontesqnieu  once  aat  to  Daasier,  after  repeated 
deniab,  won  over  by  the  ini[enioui  argument  of 

"  that  there  ii  at  much  pride  in  refualng  my  odier 


DBSTRUCnOH  OF  BOOKS. 

THt  licerary  treasuiQ  of  antiquity  have  lulfered 
iTom  the  malice  of  men,  aa  well  aa  that  of  Hme. 

rage*  have  not  been  uU^Hed  with  dedtoylni  mrni 
but  hue  even  carried  Iheir  vengeance  to  mu- 

Ancient  hbtory  rvcordi  how  the  Penlans,  froib 
hatred  of  tbe  religion  of  tlie  nicenidani  and  the 

iS.^-  ™ " 

recorded  of  the  Orcdi 


u  nDtina  they  poHcaed  a  great  ni 

— '--'-■ ■-«  ii  tecorde-"  -'  -■■ 

Qnldua  wa> 


m  annihilated 
tc  Jewi,  of  the 


booki  of  the  Cbiiniana  » 


DEJ-TP.rCTIOS  or  BK'KS. 


Tnmt  nnlurr  ip  Cmuunlindpnf  wu  Inudu-    olhcr  bock  Hun  tbc  Kcnn  ;  uid  Ihir  (be  compo' 

lyfuurmedintbc  pnnietJcdiriDTii^  nha^bcrn    un.  n  of  in  i4oUlcr  ttlu^  b;  dticdjTik-     Kotoolf 
ttili  bj  D>.  CluVr      '.■-■-  • ■■-I''--  ■^■■     '■r    J-r'--rt    i.-,-7?— -    ■'     '-i-   i-.'-y-Ti  i-   Tn   bt 


ss; 


AD    ll 


be  »n«ni ;  lor  %t  tbc  t jUng  c€  GmudA 
lUovmg  inccdcMc  lopccting  ■  BpuiA 


ordntd  to  t<e  Luml :  the  inlfc^d  pcncvcnnce  < 

Ibe  ivm  ihcmK^ci  prr^crvrt  that  work  froi    .  . 

umihiUtWin.     hi  1(64  tvcLve  Itioubiut  copic*  j  righune uved  11  tnm  datnirtkjn.    InlbeU 

kcucfalili  uitcriclTd  tomp  (bn  unircnitdstmc-    in|[  IfacK   in   Ibv  rirr  of  Toluto.    Tbm 
tMi  of  TilmiHlt I  loTubkb  be  bccunc  hitol  by]  churrbn  the  ChriiluDi  m-crc  allovnl  tb 


t,  but  ippalinic 


:,  Ibe 


n  WRC I  AliAami 


itiinet  iftcTvudt  from  'niledo. 


tbo  nilionil  rectinh  nC  Ik  ronquercil    people;  I  beir 
bencc  it  n  that  Ibe  [ri'Ji  deplon  i1w  iTrrparibJe  1  re^L 
lovm  nf  tbttr  mott  mtint  nittqnj]  mcmoniK  I  Er« 
wbirh  their  inTHhn  bate  been  loo  «t:ce 
■nnibUilinK.     The  ume  ri-nt  o-iuned 
conqneit  rrf  Mekivai  mil  the  mtereitiiig 
Df  llie  Kew  WnrU  muU  ei-er  rnuin  im| 

bnt  mM<iDiiie>,  mho  ton  lite  bccune  KHibtc  of 
ihcir  iTTgr.  Clavi){cra,  Ibe  mou  autbeniic  bbio- 
tiui  d  MeKlcn.  coDliriiuUjr  luncnt^  tidi  iffectinf 
!«<■      ETcntbinK  in   Ihit  cnunnir  had   been 

[ilnted,  ■nd  p^nten  ibDuikded  tbcrei  »  tcribct 
I  Butope.    The  Mm  >nbnniurin,iuii4i,iou>1h>l 
npentHhiD  urn  miied  with  all  Ibeir  piinlF — 
uticked  tbe  cbicf  Khool  it  Ihne  artlHi, 
roUntini,  In  the  mvkct-j  1*  e,  a  litUe  nout 


let,  the 


digunllyil) 

triolic  Moican  nuully  bur 
tbe  Tenalniog  reciinfa  «f  bii  r 
The  itarT  nf  the  Ciliph 

IhrnuQhoul  die  klnjrdom,  at  .„ 

antMa»  tiut    Ibe   Koran  conlained   evtt^-IhinB 

lie  ihtRtne  onkRil  all  the  bon):i  in  tbi  " 


mndcn  pniilDii  would  iitcmrtM  deny.    B 
lale  would  not  be  ilnjEDtar  eten  were  il  In 
MTfrt  tlv  mill  ihe  cb«r»i'»T  n(  >  Ukoi,  a  bitt 
■nil  1  bicriibcad.    A  tinulu  erent  hapbentil  in 
hisu.  When  Ahdoolih.whnin  thelhirdcenlury 


icienl  biiliua,  is  ' 
1  been  uied  by 
greal  nuniheT  i^Minl*,  mil  bl^ilK  been  piuLMuJ 
pure  durini;  Monri^i  timer,  it  aeemed  to  inem  that 
Alphonnii  wu  more  Irani  -    -   - 

-'     '  to  Ibu  beijAl.Iluiaiknjphit  w» 

__ _  .,  decide  Ibeii  (at- ■--'—■ "— 

Ihe  chimni-n  cf  Ihe  ToleUn 
bkiw  the  kni)<hl  of  the  RonuE 
Mil  considered  Ibii  battle  n 

SO. 


al  lelled  b>- 

•if  the  efleci  Of 


ID  he  pTDCblmfldi 

lined  in  pnyer  tor  heatt 
deal,  bclh  Ibe  rivili  (not  r 
ll  wcf  ihnwB  Into   Ibe 


■jcitya 


good  people  of  Tolrda 

r  pnyen  ai  (licy  had  lonii 

verei,  Ibe  coplca  ot  thia  misul  at  lenglfa  be- 

le  my  acarre :  for  now.  when  no  one  oppoaed 

readmn  of  HI.  Hdore'a  mimil,  none  can--'  *- 

lin  a  copy,  Ibal  be  pmied  a  large  impra 
and  built  a  'hapel,  conaectated  to  St.  Itjdcre, 
Ihii  aerrice  nijpt  he  d^y  chanted  a*  11  had 


by  the  ■ 


nl  Cbriil 


evidently  eibled  1  and  occaiinnaUy 

a  new  ifaue,  by  addLtiom  to  the  on 
were  indeialifphle  in  eiannit  rbe  be< 


DESTRUCTtOft  OF  SOORS, 


Pom  Gtcgorv  VII 
PiUIinc  ApoJln,  i 


ins  p^o,   • 


pnfo-u 


EmptutlcaNr  d 


ctuTK  of  plaihaT^m.  bcini;  deeply  indcbtci! 
Vim  for  mu^  of  hii  etcii  work  "  Ihe  Citi 
God." 

pmcribe  LathetAnnm  from  Bohemki,  converted 
thai  nourishing  liingdom  compar^rvly  inCn  » 
deien,  fmm  which  LI  hetct  Rcoveied ;  convinced 
Ibil  in  enlightened  people  could  nerer  be  Iodi; 

■t  the  nationil  litentoie :  far  book  they  con- 
demned ins  ikflnn-ed,  ceen  loow  at  udquity ; 
the  innib  of  ihe  lution  were  Coibidden  to  be  nid, 
■Rd  writer)  vere  not  pennined  ercn  to  coinpoie 


tongue  wu  hdd  out  u  t  mirk  of  i^lgir  ob^'urity, 

of  iwpctilini;  books  and  the  Uhniiet  oC  the  Biihe- 
miuH.  Wirti  their  hooki  ind  Ihrir  UincuajK 
they  loU  thvli  lutkinil  chincter  ind  their  inde- 

The  ilcstructinn  of  nbriria  in  the   reign   of 

Henrv  vm.  n  ihe  diaol  -^ '  -■■ ■- 

liweptoverhy  John  Bil 
ihE  nrfi  jioui  boina  look  i 
booty,  with  which  they  i 


'  be«n  bumorously  loiqectunid. 

I  nthle^  dEVifli-iIot  orii^inAled  tm 
1  D^^mitg.  Bishop  Hkili  lived  i 
lit  elu|iel  kt  Korwieh  tram  distnj 
mt  the  benb  of  tlie  hgurcs  t  ai 

lee  tuppJied  hy  white  %.  w. 

nennu  libnriei  luii:  nudered  Iw 
plialed  be^.  "I  dare  m^nU 
'  (hat  the  wan  lietwiil  Vntk 
mhiu-h  laited  tluv  yean,  were  ik 
»  Dui  aiGdem  wan  In  ilx  yean. 
:he  pirliameiitary  ICDdiin  the  le 


le  Hbrariefl  as  part  of  tlie 


In  ihlp-lai 

mantiicripts  under  ground,  ai 

Ihe  (lile-piee  ;  any  work  thit  wu  deenrale 
sure  to  be  ntrown  into  the  Aames  as  a  lupem 
one.     Ked  Iclten  and  embelBihed  tigum 


uund,  being  farEOtlen'i  whit  escaped  the  Ilinn 
tie  oblilerited  tn  <he  damp :  nich  li  the  di 

hich  bore  the  rmige  of  popish  origin,     w 
out  Jcprcdallniu,  of  their  rnaimim;  imigea  ind 

niKDte,  To  wIhik    intrepid  arm  many  d 
.nele«  saints  sculptured  on  our  calhcdnL 


laconic  coDdaainii  an 


t^^^ 


leE^TKei 


wruclion  of  CalbaUc  bnoki  and  docunwntt 
by  the  punuivann  in  the  reign  nf  Charlci  I.,  and 

'nm  Ihe  dread  of  the  heavy  penaltia  In  which 

When  it  wai  proposed  to  the  great  Ouitanuof 


fury  of  X  disorderly  mob,  in  ine  nunt  poliihed 
city  of  Buriipe,  the  valnible  ma.  of  the  mat 

the  flanus  during  Ihe  isoti  of  i]8o. 

In  Ihe  year  rsn,  Ihe  haD  of  the  ititionen 
nnderwenl  aa  great  i  purgation  at  was  cirried 

Bancroft,  ur«d  by  the  puritanic  and  cih'iniitic 
ordered     ft    bt    lakrn   wVrrjtnvr    Ihry   may-ir 

ritbool  the  impectioa 

m  archbishop  of  Cmnterbwy 


DESTRUCTIOS  OF  BOOKS. 


ID  of  tbc  privy 


«>». "  i»nf  •; 


[  jkbnuJ.  were  to 

Art  period^  Idd  by  an  oppoiite  (hi^'t 
:bcr  cxtrai'jigint  motiom  midc  in  tnc 


but  Dot  without  impmbk  l^urio.  «nd  with 

book.     The  bmki  of  Aiijtoile  citnc  from  hii 

■D  illinnte  ncc.  kept  them  locked  up  Kiiliout 
ixing  thcRi.  buried  in  the  eulbl  One  ApcUinn.  a 

the  Mtt.  iniuRd  by  a«  nd  moiMure,  con^- 
tnnllr  fup]ili«l  tbcir  dclicinKin.  II  >•  iinpDi- 
■ible  to  know  bow  lir  AprilioD  ha  comiplcd  and 
obtcured  the  leil.  But  the  mischirf  did  not  end 
ben ;  when  SyUi  at  the  takinc  of  Athcnt  bnu^l 
them  to  Honie,  be  coDsigneiTDieRi  to  tbe  »re  of 
Doe   Tynnnio,  a   gnmmariaD.  who   empLoj-nl 


:  be  lead  Ahitotlc  forty  tinin  over  I 
:eeded   in  perfectly   undentanding 


Many  ot  Lady  Mary  Wottley 


Uterarv  honoun;  and  a 
recenlly  pnblifhnl.  were 


mortbed  her  lady- 


Efit  Kholan  of  the  »ge  wai  diac 
»t  ID  BDTope  had  •<|£^K<I  Peir 


KAB.  or  LeODirdo  d#  Vinci  have  equaU^ 

lector  discovered  vme,  be  gcneioiialy  brouehl 
^  cmtn  a  dcieendant  of  the  grval  painter,  who 
Idly  observed,  that  "  iie  had  a  great  deal  more 

the  tata  iud  not^  destroivd  them  I  "  Ho'thiDg 

Menage  obtora  OD  *  iriendhaviDebad  his  Ubrvr 
destroyed  by  Are,  in  which  teveraf  valuable  kiai. 
^--^  - -riihed,  that  tuch  a  loti  is  one  of  the  grealeit 
lunn  tbat  can  happen  to  a  man  of  letlen. 

imiUr  miffoTtuDei :   for  though  the  Hre-officei 

cftTojcd  nuor  ADglo-SaxoD  uai-— a  kw  dow 

lard  and  hardly  at  the  baked   fr^menb   thai 

McniDiky'i  famoua  PerBW  dictionary  mcl  with 

aicR  of  \^enna  by  the  Tnrki :  *  bomb  leU  on  the 
auibor'a  houK,  inl  coiuuined  the  principal  part 
of  hii  indebQ^ble  labonn.  There  are  lew  teti  of 
thii  high-priced  work  which  do  not  bear  evident 
prootl  of  the  bomb  i  while  many  part*  are  atained 

he  luDcriagi  of  an  aulbor  for  the  Ioh  of  hia 

r  kns  of  hi»  papen  Kcmi  immediately  to  have 

D  followed  by  madneu.    At  pDrii.he  had  an 

,   rtmenl  in  the  palace,  and  had  prepared  an 

da^,  and  he  generally  wrote  bv  lamp-light- 
"ailnggone  out,he  left  the  lamp'bumingi  the 
■pen  «>on  kindled,  arid  hl9  lihrar}'  wai  reduced 

iriundy  to  the  palace,  and  knock 


SOME  NOTICES  OF  LOST  WORKS.                                 ii  | 

ringnlar  people.     He  «:quired  the  duU  of  a  man- 

criiicil cnmmu.i  life  of  Heoiy  v.,  hi> journey 

darin  in  Itaal  difficult  language :  no,  did  Ihe  form 

of  China.    He  succeeded  lo  the  dignity  oTa  man- 

poeliol pUpinuge,  uid  i  poem  on  the  Udiei  of 

<]RitBritvn.    whaticiUlogueafloBs! 

darin;  he  IraveUed  thnm^  Ibe  prot-mcet  under 
collertioo of  o'bien alioBj, the cherahcJuboar  of 

totW,  hi.ing  VinJ  ihjl  hii  tiouM  wa  oo  «te,  rjn 

through  lhe»lrrcl>  eicl»iniing  to  the  peoplf.aHu 

thiTly  yean;  and  *U  tbeie  were  luok  in  Ihe 

P«uAl  M.  F^lk<-'     T.   <tc    ;■«(«'   »  I*f 

fiial    He  vu  then  writinii  hit  commeotuY  oo 

TlK  great  PtneUian  libraiT,  after  the  death  of  ilj 

the  Melk  ol  Ahuolle. 

Bweral  men  of  letlen  hive  been  known  to  (are 

vcwell  wu  laken  ;  but  the  pilatci  lindJnR  nothing 

orcolndein,  the  dcgint  renlAcr  of  Fope'i  ejHUIe 

(amoui  llbiary.     Naiinnal   libnriei   have   onco 

ofBloonloAbcUrd. 

oTdeith.heiEcolLcctcd  hb  nufinlihed  labour;  he 
knew  Hut  hU  fnewb  woull  not  hive  the  contiK  to 
uaihibte  one  of  hii  wotki :  thij  wu  retened  for 

SOME  NOTICES  OR  LOST  WORKS. 

him.    D>'iiig,  he  nited  himielf,  u  if  •nimaled  by 

Althovch  it  i>  the  opinion  of  tome  crilia  that 

greater  than  Ihey  allow.    Our  levcreit  lonet  are 
felt  in  Ihe  hinorical  pnivince.  and  particularly  in 

conutned   them    m   one  ucrilWe.—I  recollect 

Tlie    hi«ory   ol^  Phcrnicia    by   Sancboniathon, 

hb  life  Id  conttanl  ilody,  >nd  it  w..  otaennl  (hit 

be  had  written  leTeTil  folio  volumej,  which  hli 

kiR  hK  Uboun  to  jmtefityi   ind  hT  icenncd 

proerved    bv    Eu«bi'uj.     The    lame    ill    fcrlune 

exoH  thit  tbej'  would  not  be  unworthy  ol  tticir 

attend!  Manelho'!  hiitoiy  of  Egypt,  and  Beiotus'l 
hiiloly  or  Chaidca.     The  leieanhes  of  Ihe  phlloH. 

•knn  ;  he  hid  the  fohoi  brought  to  hi»  bed ;  no 

one  could  open  Ihem,  for  they  were  cloiely  locked. 

bouil,  he  piuKd  i    he   leemed   diiturbcd   In   hii 

mind,  while  he  fcll  it  e«ty  moment  hit  ilrenph 

Of  thi  biitofv  of  Polybiu.,  which  once  con- 

dcoyioR  1  nuMenly  be  niied  hit  feehk:  hindi  by 

ID  eBort  of  Krm  raolie,  bunt  hii  papen.  ind 

hiltoriiS^brary  oi  D'iodcIlL°s'u°Ii''fifli^n°bofk^ 

■miled  u  the  greedy  Vukin  licked  up  eveiy  pige. 

only  remain  out  of  loitv  j  and  hjlf  of  the  Konun 
peiiJied.    Of  Ihe  nghty  booki  of  the  hiitoir  of 

The  tut  exhiuited  hi>  remiining  itrength.jnd 
be  non  ifterwirdi  eipiied.    The  &le  Hn.  luch- 

hihl  hul  written  her  hie  in  Kveril  volumoi  on 

Dion  Camui,  Iwenty.live  only  remain.    The  pie- 

her  de»lh-bed.ftTim  i  moliye  peihipi  of  too  much 

■  frienJ  to  cut  Ihem  into  piccei  before  her  eye.— 

of  one  hundted  and  loRy  booki,  and  we  only 

a  ireaiurc  has  been  kni  in  the  tbiity  booki  of 

miy  be  cUled  Ibe  henii.m  o(  luthon. 

■nie  republic  of  fctleu  hu  nilTcred  irrepinble 

elegantly  obHmei.  Ihal  "The  reign  of'Titui,  Ihe 

iema  bf  ihipwieclu.    cuaiino  Veroneie,  one  of 
tboK    lurrKd  Itiliini    who   travelled    through 

delTgbi    or    human   kind,  ii  totally   lott.    and 

Domilian   hai  eacaped   Ihe    vengeance  of    Ihe 

Greece  to  the  lecovery  of  nit.,  hid  hi>  pene- 

wince  repaid  by  the  acquiwlion  of  tn.iny  .alu- 

•tiUthccoloinitonoof  biltoiy.     Itiicnriouilo 

■bte  WDiki.    On  his  return  to  Italy  be  wa>  ihip- 

obsene  that  Veiklui  Paterculua, ol  whom  afrag- 

ISS'.^no'olh"  "wi^ev'S^  i^Xo«J«i1°.^ 

pungent  wai  hii  grief  on  thit  occaiion  ihal.  «■ 
eonGng  to  Ihe  relation  of  one  of  hii  countrymen. 

which  occaaion.  the  leit  ol  Ihi.  hi«orian  lo  re- 

bit  hair  became  tuddcnly  white. 
About  the  year  ijoo,  Hudde,  an  opulent  bnrao- 

mrioiitr,  wen.  to  cBi  » intuit  hiffif  in  the 

cenainly   Incurred  an   iiieparable   low   In   thai 

lomuchaatialaclloninhii-tnnitutet."    Petrafcb 

QtJODLIBBTa,  OR  SCHOLASTIC  DISQUISITIONS. 


»,  thit  in  hu  nnilh  be  hul  teen 


ticus  the  Friend  of 


QUODLIIETS,  OR  SCHOLASTIC  DIt- 

ucismoNS. 

?rc  cjUcd  Qunfinvf  iiutabbtlUdt;  And  tb?y 
!n  generally  »  hdicutuui  thai  wf  haie  tc- 
■A  {[iMUtirl  '  '      ' 


OpuknE,  hfnpi- 
epanbkloi*  tn 


litjan),  it  ippcin  tbit  fait  Niiui^  Histerr,  ihu 
TAit  Rgi«Kr  of  The  wudgm  and  foil/  of  tbe  an- 

AmaogbitalbervoTka  welincla  hittorr  Id  twenty 
boDkji,  whitJi  ha  eaiiiely  perished.  Utf  diKovcr 
Mho  the  wort*  of  wnien,  wliLrb,  by  the  aceoubtt 
of  Ibcm,  appur  [o  bii^e  eqiuILcd  in  genius  Ihov 

J^  1-flf.ilawa  to  »njle  uj-tliiog  myieil,  or 
!i.iM  Hlui  1  bur  Air™!?:  wot*  oe.  Mi»  io  • 
lyidf,  I  conUDtl|r  tjkt  u|> 

ID  CaluUoi  1  and  in  ■  critic  of  k  Hh:  a  UsU  >> 
Pliny,  to  hire  cbcnshed  w  eonttut  tn  inter- 
couhc  with  (be  vntingi  of  Ihi»  author,  imUcAtet 
hi^  poweti.    InsUDCn  of  thii  bind  freriucnlLy 

Mentoder.  who  would  b»'e  iDiereatvd  ii«  mucb 
domestic  poet,  uid  the  Ijre  he  loucbed  was 
the  piioter  of  mannen,  ind  the  bi«iDFian  of  ibe 

Even  of  **cbylu*,  dopbcKia,  and  EuTipides,  who 
h"e  been  pieKrye.l!  and  nineteen  of  Ennpido. 

utU"*.  to'  "i™  (""u"  port  may  an*  to  luppiy 
(be, vacant  place  of  a  lAt  poet,  but  ai  ii  not  id 
with  the  biitohan.     Fancy  may  be  nippbcd  j  but 


Sin,"^" 


anythinf 


ic  history  of  tt 


deiterit)-  of  wit." 
olaitic  pbikvophy  mi^t 

buDun  mind,  ind  till  a  niche  in  our  Uterary 
annila.  The  worki  of  the  KhoUltict,  Kllb  the 
ilclula  of  theae  tJudltMsium,  a)  once  nhow  the 
gieainem  and  ihe  li((k«>  of  (he  human  Intellect  j 
N>T  though  they  often  degenerate  lata  incredible 

of  Thomu  Aqnlnu  and  Duu  ScoEua  bave  con- 

of  brain  wtUch  they  OKhauited  in  demolbhing 

The  kUaviDj  ii  a  lUehl  ikelcb  of  (he  icbool 

The' Chrlitian  d«Irine>  in  the  primi|iie  aga 
o(  Ihe  ffi^nl  were  Adapted  lo  Ibe  limple  lom- 

eiplainej  ,by  An.  ohiiow  ior«pn;tatioa  (ome 
tcnptuol  |i4uf,a(  iaftrT*4'bi.Ank«  iUuBniiDn 
lome  mciAl  dottrinc.  vv*<int6 


wor^ip  of  God  into  a  mlcml  the  freed  in 
qaeMLOni,    incninprrhenNble    diKincliom.  < 


«hia  of  AEiHotle  were  read  to  the  people 
ad    of    the    gospel.     Arinotlc   wu   plAccd 


QirODirSETS.  OR  SCHOLASTIC  DISQUISITIONS. 


povibly  ^  i  phik4Dphn  wba  il 


bq  cJotct,  toA  had  nolbing  but  strokca  o'f  th* 
formed  in  cpbodctn  (be  calm  narralive  of  Jklerary 

aod  tngifal  e^'CDti  with  whicb  Iticjr  too  Long 
puiaJvd  thctr  folbjwen,  anJ  lU^urbcd  rbe  repoK 

Occimibn,  acid    many  othcn,  nared   into   the 

iboriDiuly  compiled  iner 


d  AbcUrd^  *' TntroducboFi  tr 


"  Tibe  Muter  of  Sentenc 
eoUettiDo  of  pasiga  <r 


wbicb  they  wr^i  oa\y  made  uieoraaarc 
They  at  Icniflh  collcclcd  alJ  thae  tfui 


Ohmaldi,  to  quefCLou  the  pJaineit  Irulhi.  to 


valid  in  Ibe  tenth  ceoluiy,  relating  to  dlalectica, 

bne,  dog,  &c.)  ngnilyini'  rot  ilai  at  IHtl  in  pat- 
ticDlar,  bat  dU  ia  ^nc-aL     Tuey  diflinguuhcd 

«e  ridcT  AU  thii  and  lome  congenial  pointi  re- 
■meeting  the  oiigiia  oE  out  Idru,  and  what  ideu 
vnr,  and  whether  we  reallr  had  an  Idea  of  a  thing 
before  wc  diacoTered  the  (bing  Itself — in  a  word, 

length  proceeded  id  accuialloni  of  bereay,  and  for 

Kimed,  and  what  not,  the  whole  wai  dehred  b^ 
the  rereiiei  of  nato,  Arlitotle,  and  Zeno,  abont 
the  satyre  of  Idea) ;  than  which  labfM  lo  the 
piBent  day  no  dlacuanon  ever  d«enen(ed  into 

■  AouiHAa,  ilj'led  the  Angelical 


■-d  all  hli  life  with  making 


ieotog>-,"  S,  -        „     .  -       . 

I)  a  metaph^vcoli^cal  treatise,  or  the 
Inue  metapbvMci  m  Ibeolo©".  It  occu- 
re  ii$a  fcriio  page».  of  tery  unaU  cloie 
louble  columni,  II  may  be  wodh  noHc- 
lo  Thia  work  are  appended  19  foho  pagei 
^  cchlumu  of  errata,  and  about  ico  of  ad- 
bole  is  thrown  Into  an  Aristotelian  form  i 
uhiet  or  quetclona  are  propowd  rinl,  and 


deepest  mtaterle^,  their  phlk»ophy  became  nothing 

have  been  cnlj^d  for  the  reader. 
He   ticala  of  angels,  Iheii  lubtcancc,  orderi, 

AnRcla  were  created  by  Ocid — They  were  cre- 
ated Immediately  hy  him — They  were  created  in 

They  were  createll  in  imptrfetl  heatilude.  After 
severe  chain  of  reaaoning  he  thoKi  that  ingela 
e  incorporeal  compared  to  ui,  hut  onporeal 
impared  to  Cod. 

An  angel  ii  compoeed  of  action  and  potentiality  i 
le  moreauperiorhe  ii,  he  baa  the  Icaa  potenuallly- 
They  haife  not  matter  properly.  Erery  angel 
•---  fmm  anolhet  angel  in  .peclea.  An  angeril 
tame  .petio  as  a  loul.  Angehhate  not 
naturally  a  bodv  united  to  them.  The;-  may 
aflume  hodiea ;  but  Ihe'  do  not  want  la  aasume 


In  the  aame^body  there  ate,  the  soui  formall; 


FAUE  CO&'TL-M.\-ED.—TBE  SIX  FOLLIES  OF  SCIESCE. 


Qugh  every  ined]arn,but  nuy  bedifCDnliTiaa 
rhe  VFlocily  ot  Ebe  nv)tiOfa  dT  Ul  inget  b  n 


AU  the  i^uacjoiu  are  jmawercil  wHh  i  tubticty 

bcDd  aod  remember  thjD  mtny  pdrtilemi 
Euclid :  and  perlupi  a  few  of  the  boff  toig^t  i 

andenundine.  However,  t  rreaf  part  of  th 
pecuhu  piDdilct^iu  Mt  kudcd  with  the  m 
trifling,    niemeul,  ind  eren   Kzndilaiu  tax 


I     ^«cly     del 


Whether  the  pioui  at   the   r 


_  .  *  again  debated— 
le  angel  Gabnel  appeared  td  (he  Vinpa 
ic  thape  or  a  terpen!,  of  a  dove.  fX  a 

1  what  drew  wn  lie  ?    Was  bia  garment 

what  waa  the  colom  o(  the  VMn 
ir^  Waa  ibe  anjaainted  with  Ibe 
and  liberal  arti  ?    Had  ihc  a  chotT>iigh 


matlen :    the/    aho    agitated.    Whether   when 

tbmiiiivU  of 

than  ODC  edilur^,  nerrr  revrti-ed  ilj    "wnen   a 

boabcarrwd  to  nurket  with  a  rope  tiedaboni  ila 

whether  la  the  h*f  carrKd  to  market  bj  ibe  t«^  or 

ip  the  tenth  RDturf  (bvi  Jottin,  \a  hb  Remarti 
on  Cede^HUal  HMnr.  Vd.  V.  p.  i;.},  alter  kng 
and  IjHjLLiua]  rBBXratatf  about  the  real  pnKiKe 
acrameu,  Ibcv  at  length  usieer- 
ike  a  peace  1    Vet" ■  —  ■•- 


they  were  ooeqiull 


'Cat  unhappy  eft«b  of  the  ichoUfUc  phjlovphf  oe 
the  progreH  of  the  hutzun  mind.  The  mind*  a 
men  wcte  turned  fTVm  cUincal  atudie*  to  the 


hare  depraved  both,  hy  applying  their  admirat>lc 
part*  to  weare  thev  cobwei»  of  irnhbtrT,  and 
to  (ontnund  the  cleat  wmplicit)'  or  evan^ica] 
ITvtha  by  a  falie  philosophy  and  a  captioua  Logie. 


D  great  worki,  hot  tl 


:   Magle;   and    JuiUclal 


vitriiity  ;  but  iC  abowi  a  gl 


ODghl  Cowky  haa  applied. 


'  Although  ]  tblnk  thou  nc 
TbcKarcb 


i^'ith  good  unnu^t  cupenmeni 
rbe  some  tbongbt  b  In  llwine. 


IMTTATORS. 


iy  fat  Ihc  phlkOD^ 


„ epiy  for  Ihi  pt. — 

nil  rotarcbn  he  iJbcorcred  ■  very  uaefnl  pur^i 


ohKrveinn  the  PiiUiuopAitaS  siutf,  thi.     

prore  the  impowbULty  of  obtaining  it,  but  vc  cut 
atiljr  KC  Ihc  MIy  of  tbMC  wba  empliqr  then  lime 
uid  mmicy  in  leeking  for  il.    Thd  price  is  Coo 

.  ._ _t.i„(j  a^  j((jj  pmbibiUty  of 

owerer  it  ii  itill  a  bulliiw  af 
rbo  h»  nodded  TcrraffectioD- 


nicreedlng  In 


I  large  ciH:ie,Hichu  (be  orbit  m^ 
B  cartD  oeKiiba  round  the  Mn,  IIk  geom 
in  will  not  nMike  bv  the  tbicknm  of  a  I 
-   ■     circle  il      


perpetuil 


fes 


IMITATORS. 

ivTtteri.  nsujiUy  pedaotii,  jnu^^DC 
•npplv  by  the  laboun  of  inilunry 
a  V  nature.  It  u  recorded  of  fi 
.  that  be  fteqnntly  ipent  a  mom 


bantered  hi  hlaO«rp>ifaiiiij,aa»ilaviihl)rdei'oteil 
to  Cieetu*!  glyle,  that  the*  ridlculoiuljr  emplinreil 
the  utmoit  precutiou  wnen  tbey  were  iciEcd  by 
a  CiMiDnian  fit.    Th*  Hmftm 


KiicJby 


unhappy  Imitation 
tbenct  were  itligi 

Ku  <nei«ly  hy  ad 


titutin;  a  nl^iMiyi 
oiubti,  like  the  Pagan  1 


of  ficbcHi,  Gmlci,  and'of  in  Sfli  ot  tn^ 
bookijiFith  thbdiBerence.  that  derotlonal  nibjecti 
■re  lubiiilutBil  fdr  tibnloui  ones.  Hii  epic  iathe 
Irnatittlt  UK  the  plumage  nf  Saint  IgiutiQt.  Hii 
ClaliluH  Ovid  \%  in  the  ume  taut ;  ererythini 
vean  •  new  face.  The  E^iOtitiejiBVi  ooe> 
the  F*tH  are  the  aiv  flava  at  the  rrCAlinn ;  Ihr 
Elifiti  are  the  lamer 
en  lilt  im  tfOtt 


■  tie) 


wiiSrno 


approved  of  A  fymtij 


Li  '-fhe 


The   Intaritatifn    is  prt _,     .    

virpn,  imieKl  of  ronmlting  the  tarrtil  viriiittgi. 
read*  (be  SjbiUnit  tratttif  Her  iltendana  an 
Orjaii,    Nrrtidi,  fcc.      Thit    mon«roui    miitul 

Catholic  piety  lound  no  diniculty  in  the  proen 


or  Oavii,  and  that  of  M.nma 

with  the  female 

Seneca,  in  hii  114th  Epbtle, 

Hikey  or  in  on- 

dnced  Sallxut  to  adopt  them. 


the  undiacemlna  herd  of  his  ipa- 

Ooe  eanaot  nut  uniJe  at  theve  imilatDn:  we 
have  abonnded  irith  them.  In  ihe  d»i  of 
Chbtchill,  every  month  prodoceU  an  enoiion 
which  tolenhly  imitated  hii  rough  and  ilovenly 

medlaciity— but  the  geniaa  lemilned  with  the 

tu£;andin  ReMing^  time,  Tom  Jottct  produced 
more  baitanli  in  wit  than  the  aulbor  eould  ever 
•uipect.  To  wch  lileraiy  echoei.  the  reply  of 
Fliilip  of  Macedno  to  oitc  who  prided  hinucU  on 
imitaling  the  noto  of  the  nightinoale  may  be  ip. 
plied;  "I  pKlcr  the  nlghtiikeale  herxlfl"    Even 

doomed  to  there  the  fate  of  Biliui  lia>iciu  in  hit 


anecdote.  Ehn  Saad,  one  of  Uatiom 
cnm,  when  wiitiiw  what  the  propi 

the  best  Creator  V*  Mahomet  apptwt 
prenoa,  and  desited  him  10  write 
dawn  alio  ai  part  of  the  Inspired  pj 
CODSCniience  wa(,  that  Ebn  Saad  tieg 
hiiMelf  ugre.it  a  prophet  a>  hit  mi>t 


ii"o^ 


CICERO'S  FUNS.^PREFACSS. 


CICERO'S  niNS. 
'■  UiinriD,"  uyi  Mtnwe. "  h»yF  recrivcd  grew 


thougb   Ik   crrtnini]'  hbi    IxciDie  nnlhing 
moR  di%IIMLllg  chin  lo  extill  in  onr  EdIcIMcIL 


nan  iiH>rc  rudy  with  Ihcm  thu  with  rcpartco. 

tintlli:.    I'D  Itic  Kin  oE  1  couk,  "f^B  fKAfuf  tibi 
iurtj'at'tlv."    The  incivnti  prcinouDCed  nff  And 

»ot»  beiidfl  the  unbJEuily  otjurt,  wt '  ' 
lo  tfa/*  or  Utr—jvf.     A  Sir""""   "" 
MiDg  >  Jew,  Uleinptcd  u  get 

vu  A  ciuruR  dF  Ibe  gmt  culpiit,  oppowd  htm, 

regrrl  10  AElord  i  mpecubk  tuthofiiy  Hir  UtreDnic 
punf;  licM-cvcT toharvdegndedhnidTcTmicsbf^ 


LTilkt  cf  hii  lulhcir,  tlKnigh  he 
« the  tnilh,  hi] 


Eb  hluiukted  < 

lod  Ihai  oT  All  othet  tong-winded  Authnn,  ippcxr 
lo  me  vtrf  tediou;  (or  hi*  prer^ce,  detiniiinni 
dhriiinni,  ind  tflymologiei,  tike  up  the  grc4(e> 
pm  of  hit  work ;  whatcret  Ibetc  ii  oT  lUv  iiu 

when  I  btve  tpeni  id  hour  in  liufing  him,  vbici 
i>  1  n^tt  ileil  br  mc,  md  RcaDcct  what  I  hif 
HiciKe  eitncUd  of  iuice  ud  ubMiiKe,  Ibt  tin 
moil  part  I  And  nothing  but  wind ;  for  be  b  no 

poie,  and  the  reamn*  that  ihould  properly  help  1i 


ElB  I3ni;ui4h  about  the  flubfCCl,  and  delay  our  ex- 
pectijrion.    Thote  are  proper  Ibr  the  k1ioo1i»  for 


Ty  to  apeak  after  Ihii  m 


;,« 


cry  onl  lifty  timet  Ojtil  ai  Ibe  deikt . 

that,  leiminR  nrtplid,  he  had  no  gteil  □■lural 

mighly 


°-'"£i' 


tebjialK 


iuly     An  cleitaDt  pore 
ployed  in  the  addition  of  a  plctureaqi 


T  IHIer  to  their 


into  eood  hiimour.MagoodprokiBue  iito  a  pla*, 

tied.  The  Italiani  call  the  preface  la  lalia  Jrl 
f r^t»  the  tauce  frthebook,  and  if  wcU  vaMned  it 
crcare*  an  appetite  in  the  reader  to  devonr  Ebe 
book  iticlf.    A  preface  badly  comptMed  prejudice* 

prefacn,  and  othert  can  hnish  ■  pRface  who  could 
nerer  be  capable  o(  fipl«tilng  a  book, 

written  tx»k,  K  wai  obaen-eii  Uiat  they  ou^i 


jr  puipoae,   Thii  it  called  by  tbc  Freneh  *■ 


THE  ASCTESrs  AND  MODERNS.— WME  lyOESIOCS  THOUaHTS.     17 


Hibvqi»iicpToiJiiclki(Hiippe>t«tahB^gifct 

Them  *  liierary  hypocbDodiiuin.    Dr.  AmutrcDE 
■Act  hi^  clai-icu  poem,  never  ihcwk  huub  ear 

11.    liiihe^rtruf  10  hie  Uvely' SkMcbs' 

ie  piUi  n  the  ff^aa  10  bti  poen»'    There  h( 

nJIiriitm'    Whit  he  lui  demsyed  mnOd,  ino 
bibLjr  enrjuffh,  hive  been  better  received  Vf  the 

KMImd/ffrrrvitf  rM^rf.     Vnt  ba  bMllw^ilwJ. 
irlifr  tufiti*  thttr  tflniiK."    Itioe  prebc? 
— lindane  of  tbe pvWtvt Jt''"''- F*'^""^'^  * 

1 1>( Ibe ICTtpIun.*.    These mnmiltrifttn wen 

fctmerty  very  common  in  the  Mga  ef  titerary  con 

' n)-!  fat  hair  the  biu)ae-i  of  lo  author  con 

.  then,  either  in  nplying,  or  uticipitlnii  1 
)  Id  the  Atticki  of  hit  opponent. 


■erne  wherein  the  cuiingei  at  an  aiinr  ire  termed 
Jaifrihnnila.  Without  tbia,  1  lane  iiilhor  b  but 
a  labyrinth  wllboul  ■  doe  to  direct  the  reader 
Iheirin,  IcrnifaBthereUiliiykindrf  learning 
which  la  aiily  /adiial;  when  icbolan  {like  addeti 
which  only  Ulc  the  bsne'i  beebj  nibble  but  11 
the  tibiB,  whieb  are  (iliii  Utrtuon ,  negleding 
the  body  of  the  book.  Bur  thongh  the  Idle  de- 
ns cmlehea  (tet  not  1  naif  be  uied  by  Ihem, 


(be  ancKsn 

'?::.™;__  . 

Ll»m  Teiople  raised  e« 

-^n.1  the  bold  atlickt  _ 

The  Htirary  vorid  vu  peilered  ai 
■Ml  dilute,  which  at  leoph  (tr-  '-'■ 
iinlrnce  and  lynnnnce.    ivi 


•  perturbed  fptfit."  Yc 
r  if  there  acrid  and  abm 
difgnced  the  republic 


14  inscription  Air  a  ftatac 


Uf>  ot  the  flight  Dla  butlcrfiy, 

r  LIU,  and  fwimi  ajIntpfF  in  llftuidairl 


noye.  hju  been  employed  by  leven  or  eight  mo 

trivial  painti,  bai  frequently  a  happy  thaugbt.    Ai 
thii  on  'aiT'v-  "  1  wish  Ibat  the  ^rocity  of  thli 

lieei,  whne  aiin^  i<  doiroyed  far  ever  at  the  lint 
Ari«Enelu>    .1  of  ■  beuty,  thai  ihe  leemed 


A  French  poet  hat  idminbly  ciineaKd  the  in- 
Laring  to  her  C0r^daair  the  hiilh  of  her  pwiun 


Soon  i>  the  vouthlal  he. 


iB                                              EARLY  FRINTIXG.                                                    | 

thought.    A  nymph  ii  iitcatmA  b)-  hn  lo«r. 

fiinling  under  an  umbngwui  wk— tht  conllici 

or  b«uty  ind  boTTOi  h  dacribcd  by  I  pretly  ton- 

TMiaa  i>  «me  probaKUly  that  Ihii  art  ori- 

"  ~ti  l'»m«.r  K  tnouPBil,  on  dinil.  T«  void  1 

einated  In  China,  where  it  wai  praclned  long 
Romina  diirnot  practise  the  art  of  prititlng  cannot 

If  Love  wen  dyin^  wc  iheiild  (hink  him  here  1 

ir  Dnih  could  love,  he  would  be  plcnind  ttaui  1 

Ktaed  the  >R.  and  may  he  aud  to  have  enjoyed 

nistTCB  ihill  love  hit  rltjl,  ud  not  loeleg«Blly 

npien  hli  fecUngs  in  IhE  |ien>l™»l  sliuIiDn  : 

tipea  with   which  they  itampcil  their  pottery. 

I'uKmhIe 

.Sow  in  daily  pr^tiing'tbe  .rl,  though  ™nHn3d 

W  thi.  object.  It  did  not  occnr  to  »  ingeniou.  . 

innble. 

be  accounted  for.    Uld  the  wi™  and  grave  acnate 

Avoir  pour  I'nn  da  feai,  et  pout  I'luR*  dct 

pis;:."         ^   "^ 

eliminate  uk  i    Or  pediapi  Ihev  did  not  caie  to 

Yei.  wtth  I  double  love  thy  unl  nny  bum ; 
Oh  '111  no  crime  to  love  Arnintc  ind  Ni«  1 

deprive  lo  large  a  body  ai  their  acribci  of  their 

And  when  In  my  lul  hour  my  loicl'ihill  dote. 

their  writingi. 

Civ.  one  you,  la.  .ml  give  the  other  ...» 1 

when  lint  the  ail  of  pnnling  wa.  dljcoi-ered, 
they  only  made  uk  of  one  aide  oT  a  leal  i  Ihey  had 

It  wu  Hid  of  Mroniu..  th.l  he  wa  fma  Im- 

furi,^,    purely   unpnre.      ?.,«     b,«|«  of  hi. 

other.    Bpecimeo  of  iheae  early  primed  booki  ate 

nyle  i  mpunit,.  beciuK  of  hii  obicenilia. 

in   hi.  Majcrt)t  and  Lord  Spencer^  libraric 

Afterward,  they  thought  of  paitine  the  blank 

which   wu  rmiriDved   ro  chmcteiiie   a  conciH 

nde..  which    made   them    .p»ar  uEe  on.   leaf. 
Their  block,  were  made  of  wft  ««da.  and  their 

•tylepregn.nl  Willi  meining. 

How  tendetly  doei  Tu».   in  one  verse,  de- 
Kribc  hi.  Olindo  1    So  much  lovs  and  to  much 

letter!  were  caned  J  butfmiuenily  breaking,  the 
eipenic  and  trouble  of  can-ing  and  gluing  new 

modeily! 

"  Br.m.  uiii,  poco  iperi,  imlta  chiede." 

An  eiqulHle  .eT«.  which  Hoole  enlirely  p»«i 
over  in  hii  venion,  but  which  Faiifu'i  linei  led- 

out  modem  itereolvpe  LoniiR..  of  entire  pue.  In 
wild  Mock<  of  metal,  and,  not  being  liaBle  to 

break  hke  the  «ft  wood  «  fint  u«d.  i>  profiubty 

■'  He,  full  of  biihfulnai  and  tiulh. 

Loved  much,  hoped  little,  and  deared  nought." 

ally  icprinlcd.    Prinlini  in  caned  block)  of  wood 
muU  hare  greatly  retarded  the  pragren  of  univer- 
ul  koowle^;  lor  one  Kt  o/^tvpe.  could  only 

by  the  eye  ii  did  not  want  gpecch  j  (or  Ihli  only 

have  pmilneed  one  work,  whereia  il  now  aefn 

could  be  detected  by  the  eu. 

lor  hundred!. 

Manca  11  pariar ;  di  rtvo  altn.  nan  chledi ! 
He  muic.  que«o  .ncot,  a'agil  occhi  credl. 

they  omitted  to  print  the  Sat  kller  of  a  chapter, 
for  which  they  left  a  blank  nice,  that  it  might  be 

the  ancienti  were  ignorant  of  the  circulation  of 

cbaier.     teveni  ancient  volume!  of  thne  early 
timea  have  been  found  when  Ihex  lecten  an 

" Ignaroit  juiqu'aui  routs  certainei 

wanting,  u  they  neglected  lo  have  them  painted. 
The  initlil  carved  letter,  whirh  1.  generally  a 
fine  wood-cut,  among  our  piinled  booki,  ii  evi' 

Du  meandre  vivant  qui  coule  dam  les  veino." 

An  Italian  poet  makei  a  lover,  who  hu  nrvtved 

Among  the  very  eirlicM  book,  minted,  which 
were  religion.,  the  Poor  Man-.  Bi&e  hu  wooden 

cul.  in  a  coane  .tyle,  withoul  the  leaat  ihidowing 

■•  [>i«.go  1.  .ua  motte.  e  l>  mi.  viu." 

or  cro»ng  of  itroket.  and  tbeie  they  ineleganlly 

Hueb  1  deplore  her  death,  and  much  my  life. 

daubed  over  with  colour.,  which  Ihej-  termed  Uht- 

II  hai  been  mtul  for  poeu  id  uy,  that  riven 
diw  to  convey  theii  tributary  Mreami  to  the  aea. 
Thi.  figure,  being  a  n»urk  of  wbjecti™.  proved 

minaling,  and  »ld  It  a  cheap  rate  to  thne  who 
touid  not  aHord  to  purchMe  co«ly  mlauli.  ele- 
gantly written  and  painted  on  vellum.    Specimen. 

o<rei«vc  to  the   panioOc  Taetoi  and   he   hu 
inaeniomly  Hid  rf  the  river  M,  beunie  of  itt 

Ken  In  ettutl'i  Dicbonaiy  of  Engraven.    'The 
Bodleian  llhraTy  pnbeaan  toe  oiiginu. 

!iee  rapid  f .  to  Ocean'i  empire  bring 

In  The  produdtioni  of  early  nilntino  may  be 

embellkhed  with  cut.  f,mS^  m  a  mo«  elegant 
tare :  many  of  them  were  ludicmua,  and  aeveial 

A  u<r,  and  net .  mtuli,  fmm  bii  iprlDg  1 

maSl.MichiEli.o.cr«miingS»t«.,  indninc- 
ma  St.  Anlhcmy  It  >tuck«l  by  TUIOIU  dnlH  ot 
lott  tlumn'  foruB-noI  o(  (tie  gnHiiqiic  ind 
inb*rfjunilyofC»llnil 

Priming  ma  grulually  pnctned  thniuglKnH 
luropc  from  the  yen  1440  to  i  jeo.    Cuton  ind 

iriial  priDtcn.    Cuton  wu  1  wolthy  mailiut. 


«nible<l  to  idl  bi!  BiUn  it  liity  cnwns.  wtiUe  the 
other  tcribet  demindcd  live  hundrrd,  thii  ruted 


in  la  the  m^itntn  uiinit  falm  b  1  miglctAD  ; 

copiawcFt  Cvund.  The  Tcb  ink,  «nd  Fuifi  red 
infc  19  peculiuty  btimAnl,  whidb  embellufanl  his 
copi«i  was  aud  ID  be  hii  bloody  ind  it  wm 
mKmDly  adjitdged  thii  he  wu  in  leegiie  with  the 
devil.    Ptiit  wu  at  len^h  obllijed.  to  uvc  htnuelf 


iKlircs.  occupied  thit  iScpimnieii 


The  ^icrj  of  booLi  in  Ihoe  times  weiv  co 
■idered  aa  an  aliject  worthy  of  the  animidirenia 
of  the  hlehat  powers.  Thii  aniiely  in  favour 
the  UiidiDua  appears  (rom  i  priu'lcge  of  Po 
Leo'  X.  to  Aldui  Hanutiiis  for  printing  Van 
^•■^  "SSJ.  "Sncd  Cardinal  Bcmbo.      AUhii 

Int  the  Pope  thouid  withdraw  the  privilege,  a 

Robert  Stephens,  one  of  the  early  prinien,  si 

imiruculate,  he  hunc  up  the  proof!  in   pub 
places,  and  generoitaJy  recompensed  thoae  w 

■I  a  printer.  His  printing-olfice  claims  onr  t 
Tbii  grand  buiUiug  was  the  chief  ornament  of  1 


Iweip.    Uagoilicent  in  its  ati 


In  luly,  th 

iss 

t>ng.     It  w»  Ihe  chjra< 
of  the  ptinler,  of  which 

issLrJxt^:^, 

ct 


among  the  printers,  that  a  book  was  diflicult  Id 

art  of  reading  a  printed  booli,  and  this  addreiKd 
to  the  learned  I  He  eontrived  an  ejipedient,  by 
which  thete  abhrenatiom  might  be  enlirely  g« 

ThiaheedHtedby  introduciugwhat  la  nowi 
the  Iiattc  letter,  though  it  formerly  wai  d 
guiihed  by  the  name  of  the  inventor,  and  ■ 

BuIDU  the  ordinary  tmra,  which  happen  In 
printing  a  work,  othen  have  been  purposely  corn- 
permitted  10  appear  in  Ihe  body  of  the  1 


io 


ERRATA: 


instead  of  Chitnne  dt  ma  Sanir^  read  ma  Chienne  it 
Saur. 

Lully  at  the  close  of  a  bad  prologue  said,  the 
word  Jtn  du  prologue  was  an  frratumt  >(  should  have 
been^  du  prolonte. 

In  a  book,  there  was  printed  U  docte  Morel.  A 
wag  put  into  the  errata^  for  U  docte  Morel,  read  le 
doeteur  Morel.  This  Morel  was  not  the  first  docteur 
not  docte. 

Whep  a  fanatic  published  a  m\'stical  work  full  of 
unintelii^ble  raptures,  and  which  he  entitled  Les 
Di  ues  de  I' Esprit,  it  was  proposed  to  print  in  his 
errata,  for  Delices,  read  Deitres. 

The  author  of  an  idle  and  imperfect  book  ended 
with  the  usual  phrase  of  cetera  desiderantur,  one 
altered  it  non  desiderantur  sed  desunt ;  the  rest  is 
wanting,  but  not  luanted. 

At  the  close  of  a  silly  book,  the  author  as  usual 
printed  the  word  Fisis-^a  wit  put  this  among  the 
errata,  with  this  pointed  couplet : 

Finis  !  an  error,  or  a  lie,  my  friend ! 

In  writing  foolish  books — there  is  no  End ! 

In  the  year  1561  was  printed  a  work,  entitled 
the  Anatomy  of  the  Mass.  It  is  a  thin  octavo,  of 
17a  pagc^,  and  it  is  accompanied  by  an  Errata  of 
15  pages!  The  editor,  a  pious  Monk,  informs  us 
that  a  ver>'  serious  reason  induced  him  to  under- 
take this  task  :  for  it  is,  says  he,  to  foresail  the 
(irtifices  of  Satan,  He  supposes  that  the  Devil,  to 
ruin  the  fruit  of  this  work,  employed  two  very  ma- 
licious frauds :  tlic  first  before  it  was  printed,  by 
drenching  the  ms.  in  a  kennel,  and  having  reduced 
it  to  a  most  pitiable  state,  rendered  several  parts 
illegible :  the  second,  in  obliging  the  printers  to  com- 
mit such  numerous  blunders,  never  yet  equalled  in 
so  small  a  work.  To  combat  this  double  machina- 
tion of  Satan  he  was  obliged  carefully  to  reperuse 
the  work,  and  to  form  this  singular  list  of  the 
blunders  of  printers,  under  the  influence  of  the 
Devil.  All  this  he  relates  in  an  advertisement  pre- 
fixed to  the  Errata. 

A  furious  controversy  raged  between  two  famous 
Kholars  from  a  ver>-  laughable  but  accidental  Erra- 
(urn ;  and  threatened  serious  consequences  to  one 
of  the  parties,  Flavigny  wrote  two  letters,  criti- 
cising rather  freely  a  polyglot  Bible  edited  by 
Abraham  Ecche|lehsis,  As  this  learned  editor  had 
sometimes  censured  the  labours  of  a  friend  of  Fla- 
vian} ,  this  latter  applied  to  him  the  third  and  fifth 
verses  of  the  seventh  chapter  of  St.  Matthew,  which 
he  printed  in  Latin.  Ver.  5.  Quid  indes  festucam 
in  oct'LO  fratris  tut,  et  trabem  in  OCULO  tuo  non 
K/iUef  J  Ver.  5.  Ejice  frvmum  trabem  de  ocULO  tuo, 
ft  tunc  "vidtbis  ejiccre  Jeftucam  de  ocuLO  fratrit  tut. 
Ecchellen&ts  opens  his  reply  by  accusing  Flavigny 
of  an  enormous  crime  committed  in  this  passage; 
attempting  to  correct  the  sacred  text  of  the  Evan- 
gelist, and  daring  to  reject  a  word,  while  he  sup- 
plied its  place  by  another  as  impious  as  obscene  > 
This  crime,  exag^rated  with  all  the  virulence  of 
an  angry  declaimer,  closes  with  a  dreadful  accusa- 
tion. Flavigny's  morals  are  attacked,  and  his  re- 
putation overturned  by  a  horrid  imputation.  Yet 
aH  this  terrible  reproach  is  only  founded  on  an 
Erratum !  The  whole  arose  fix)m  the  printer  having 
negligently  suffered  the  first  Utter  of  the  word 
Oculo  to  have  dropped  from  the  form,  when  he 
happened  to  touch  a  line  with  his  finger,  which 


did  not  stand  straight!  He  published  another 
letter  to  do  away  the  imputation  of  Ecchellensis ; 
but  thirty  yean  afterwards  his  rage  against  the 
negligent  printer  was  not  extinguished ;  certain 
wits  were  always  reminding  him  of  it. 

One  of  the  most  egregious  of  all  literary  blunden 
is  that  of  the  edition  of  the  Vulgate,  by  Sixtus  V. 
His  Holiness  carefully  superintenued  every  sheet  as 
it  passed  through  the  press ;  and,  to  the  aniazcment 
of  the  world,  the  work  remaineid  without  a  rival— 
it  swarmed  with  errata  I  A  multitude  of  scraps 
were  printed  to  paste  over  the  erroneous  passages, 
in  orcler  to  give  the  true  text.  The  book  makes  a 
whimsical  appearance  with  these  patches ;  and  the 
heretics  exulted  in  this  demonstration  of  papal  in- 
fallibility !  The  copies  were  called  in,  and  violent 
attempts  made  to  suppress  it ;  a  few  still  remain 
for  the  raptures  of  the  biblical  collectors ;  at  a  late 
sale  the  Bible  of  Sixtus  V.  fetched  alx)ve  sixty 

Suineas — not  too  much  f  :r  a  mere  book  of  blun> 
en!  The  world  was  hi>;hly  amused  at  the  bull 
of  the  editorial  Pope  pre  ixed  to  the  first  volume, 
which  excommunicates  all  printers  who  in  re- 
printing  the  work  should  make  any  alteration  in 
the  text ! 

In  the  version  of  the  Epistles  of  St.  Paul  into  the 
Ethiopic  language,  which  proved  to  be  full  of 
errors,  the  editors  allege  a  very  good-humoured 
reason — "They  who  printed  the  work  could  not 
read,  and  we  could  not  {.rint ;  they  helped  us,  and 
we  helped  them,  as  the  blind  helps  the  blind." 

A  printer's  widow  in  Germany,  while  a  new 
edition  of  the  Bible  was  printing  at  her  house,  one 
night  took  an  opportunity  of  going  into  the  ofTice, 
to  alter  that  sentence  of  subjection  to  her  husband, 
pronounced  upon  Eve  in  Genesis,  Chap.  3,  v.  16. 
She  took  out  the  two  first  letters  of  the  word 
Herr,  and  substituted  Na  in  their  place,  thus  alter- 
ing the  sentence  from  "  and  he  shall  be  thy  Lord/' 
(^Herr)  to  "  and  he  shall  be  thy  Fool,"  {Sarr).  It 
is  said  her  life  paid  for  this  intentional  erratum ; 
and  that  some  secreted  copies  of  this  edition  have 
been  bought  up  at  enormous  prices. 

We  have  an  edition  of  the  Bible,  known  by  the 
name  of  The  flnegar  Bible ;  from  the  erratum  in 
the  title  to  the  20th  Chap,  of  St.  Luke,  in  which 
••  Parable  of  the  Vineyard,"  is  printed  "  Parable 
of  the  f'inegar."  It  was  printed  in  1717,  at  the 
Clarendon  press. 

We  have  had  another,  where  "  Thou  shalt  com- 
mit adulterv- "  was  printed,  omitting  the  negation  ; 
which  occa.sioned  the  archbbhop  to  lay  one  of  the 
heaviest  penalties  on  the  Company  of  Stationers 
that  was  ever  recorded  in  the  annals  of  literary 
histoT)'. 

Herbert  Croft  used  to  complain  of  the  incorrect- 
ness of  our  English  classics,  as  reprinted  by  the 
booksellers.  It  is  evident  some  stupid  printer  often 
changes  a  whole  text  intentionally.  The  tine  de- 
scription by  Akenside  of  the  Pantheon,  **  severely 
great,"  not  being  understood  by  the  blockhead, 
was  printed  serenely  great.  Swift's  own  edition  of 
"  the  City  Shower,"  has  "  old  aches  throb." 
jfches  is  two  syllables,  but  modem  printers,  who 
had  lost  the  rig^it  pronunciation,  have  aches  as  one 
syllable;  and  then  to  complete  the  metre,  have 
foisted  in  "aches  tviU  throb."  Thus  what  the 
poet  and  the  linguist  wish  to  preser%'e  b  altered, 
and  finally  lost. 


II  ippcan  by  X  alci 


o(  Diiol,  ii'it  a  -linii  tvjuMnphi^"  irTor  ihoujd  be 

One  of  the  pkoat  rcnuflubke  compliintt  on 
imilAT4  ia  that  of  £dw.  L«^b»  ipptmdfrd   ID  hit 
cuFioui  treatife  '^on  Religim  bihI  Lciniing." 
comiXi  oT  nm  Mio  ""PJviJ  '  T??  miniiWCiL 

toy  1u3t  lo  tpccify  Itx  cbideK  cmU;  falK  intc 

one  Irvcr  tor  «q«bcr;  wonb  pencil  where  they 

KvnciJ;  woitb mifptjced i  chronolot^cjj miat'*-" 

Arc  we  (o  infer  by  nicb  freqiient  compLiinti  o( 
the  inlhon  of  thil  diy.  Itul  illtact  tbiy  -"'<  — ■ 
fetare  pTDo&from  lhepnqici>,or  IhMthe 
nerer  mnilcd  to  the  corrected  pnobf 

Ibe  tileTiry  fecliagi  of  Ibc  poor  ii^or  1 

rATROIU. 

AvtBOH  h*n  too  Itcijiimly  necii^  L. 

mew,  er^  frou  ibde  to  wl)on  ih^  dnlkmted 

of  luch  mock  Miecenun  hne  otserred  that  m 
m  WW  prictned  bj  the  locieptt,  who  nnuJIy  ad 


e  CutlinA]  d'Esie,  wts  gratii 


n  puplcii.Hhow  pen 


iTopcrly  employed  hn  pen  in  a  ■oLemi 


yuTB,  to  the  DiLke  of  BnccJcvch,  bad  the  naoT' 
lihcaHon  to  fiad,  by  the  dBcoTciT  of  ■  friend,  that 
he  had  kept  it  in  ui  poateAioD  ihite  wccki  befbce 

cur  open  tile  hnt  pa^  I  and  wtiat  »  w^ne,  the 
ntri^kcl  be  bad  expenenced  frvm  tii»  nobleman 

iiand<l»  the  pupiJ  of  Adam  AmithT    It  n  pleanng 

porm ;  ind  ducing  ■  retldence  ofitx  rnonllit, 
Hickie  wai  wanaiy  regarded  by  every  Forluguoe 

"  Erery  man  belicra,"  writet  Dr.  JohnaOD,  in 

B«uende  atMehed  hioiKlf  ro  (Cardinal  Maiaiin ; 
bot  M^  fneudihip  pfodnccd  noftuo;  iiut  citibt^-. 
The  poEl  every  day  Indulged  liii  eaiy  and  chann- 

erening  the  (irdinil,  in  con>-ciMtton  with  the 

of  Rome  yhal  Benierade  wii  now  in  that  of 
poet  related  to  him  the  convenation  of  Ibe  tar- 
apartment  01  hit  eminence,  knockmi;  Vklh  all  bii 


)i        POETS.  PHILOSOPHERS.  AXJD  ARTISTS,  HADE  BT  ACCIDEST. 


ML  upon  hii  ^ncor  ihncnl  puLW  off  ihe  ifacets  dF 
tb±  Kd  iA  nptnre,  implonniE  ■  IhouaDd  pudons 


It  be  could  vat  rcfnin  f 


cirdiaal  n-u  picucil  with  hit  tirJour,  dad  pmbtbl 
ntver  aiupcclcd  hii  fialttry  j  and  the  nexl  w& 
onr  n«v  ictor  wu  pemioncd. 

hegnlvfuJLy  made  this  epiuph. 


Thr  iUiuIriouf  Canlii 


F-vjdiicd  tbeiT  protection  t 


ictobcr,  1764.  u  I  Hi 

»  apitof.  wbite  the  h«-foi  .  . 

ill  vi>pcn  Id  the  Temple  ol  Jupite.,  ... 

Ih  of  wTiting  the  decline  ind  ^  eF  the  Cii 


e-footedfn»r.were«ng- 


Older,  litlk  expected  tbe  cekbrilf  hit  mnti  k 
auired  Ibf  him.  LDltfl^ii|>  In  an  idk  hour  in  tb 
uinp  of  3  bonk«elleT|  «nd  tiiroiiuF  over  ■  parcel  o 

ddi|4lil,  thai  the  pa^titioiuarbubeBncompcikd 
him  to  Liy  the  TOhune  dovn.  Jt  «u  thli  ciTcuin- 
«tuKe  tlut  produced  those  profound  contcmpU' 
■ions  Khkh  nude  him  the  PUto  of  his  age. 

BpcDier's  Fiiiy  QnecD  1  ind,  bv  1  conlinuaj  study 
01  poetry,  he  became  K>  enchiuied  b)' the  Muse, 


IS  ttruck  with  the  ui 


■'  ^'i'"n"^ 


rtigtii,  dnguslcd  kith  b^iig  an  lodidirTent  per- 

^oobcUcr  bad  ne^-er  been  the  celebnted  poet," 
"  Accident  determined  the  t«tc  of  Moljeie  fnf 
ie  sHge,    His  gnndtAlber  loved  the  theatre  and 


struck  young  Holidrc;  he  took  a  diigusl  to  hi* 
tapestry  trade  j  and  it   is  to  this  ciicunuiance 
France  owes  her  ^^EEalcsl  comic  writer." 
"  ComeiUc  krt^nl ;  he  made  series  for  his  mis- 

wanla  hit  other  eekbratedwortj.    The  discreet 

"  Thus  il  ii.  that  the  devotion  6I  a  mother,  the 


K  the  rounder  of  1 


La  Fontairie,  al  the  age  of  (wenty-tvo,  had  rut 
taken  any  pmFcdlon,  or  devoted  himself  to  any 


[KKQUALITIES  OF  GESIUS.—COSCEPTIOS  AND  EXPRESStOS.      jj 


:TobfHcoS  txiok  cJc  Sphicra  tuving  bi 
lim.be  via  w  pkued  with  It,  that 
rdr  bcKin  a  count  of  utronomic  aiudJ 

civedlToiii  an 


if  WULoughby't  ' 
km,  vl  finding 

o™Ttan  Ik  utHiid^  io  tiw't 


;  IbcH 


t  of  111)  ilKbt  by  Ills  dcvotign  to 
klm  tltTibntoi  the  cue  of  his  gmina 
'  Emy  on  Projccti,'  from  which  [ 


w  pLagut  In  ijfrj,  11  hi>  ipmmenD  at  ulnilaor. 
igtninui  men  wen  invited.    Secretaij-  Cecil  com- 


IHeQUALITIHS  Of  GEN 
of  geniuni  and  particularly  in 


the  dicing  ind  the  hippy,  can  only  be  il 
'  poets  who  posKH  the  greateit  genius 


4(iflBliwl»— °l'hiv'lietn'Ti'n'wl«  now"equi 
loTitiin,  ind  now  In  than  Tintoret." 

thil'ikJiIfcr'nMhiirr°Lid  I  dn'nol"  now'b^thi. 
■hclher  it  h  necn^le.  ot  nccUcnt.    rou  tdl  m. 


ought,  on  tvny 

I  iTCai  thit  Ihcy  had  been  taught,  in  the  conlet- 

nnaJ  ci^EI,i1t  Ihey  h.ul  Icil^li  soicnipulgiM  iFe 
leyof  disclningwhal  ibey  know.  OlbeTa,^^n, 
Miccive  ill,  and  produce  wellj  for  they  exptcii 
'llh  elegance,  frcquenlty,  whil  Iheydo  not  know. 
It  was  observed  of  one  pleader,  tint  he  Hm* 


tec  .nerwird).  While  Horace  Ihought  Ihit 
fioni  wUl  never  fiU  us  if  we  hive  luminooi 
pbom.     Yet  tllCTiecni  to  be  dilTcrent  things 


eve,  leaving  no  fragrancep    Pratt, 
FT  of  flawing,  but  nugilory  verici 


OEOiir.Atlll''AL  PlCTf'S.-lF.nF.Sns. 


;R.\niiCAL  Dicnos. 


n  w  dclifbud  wlib  that 


«c  .^niiw.  .n.l«J.  «.n.I«  id  i  llonJ  "reOt!"'  '„«„;««  ..n^siBiBi  .h«,  u  «n,c  di^ni  pJSJ 
mctrv,  ft<.    whtn  Ani.-ai  wumwtd  i-i.tro  lo    ji„„  j,  venaioe,  Pnn  Nidil.  .Dd  Iviw  Kib*. 

•TO  iBJi  l-Bd  'n  rnijncBI  M  thnr  ijnim  ^  »-  Jirjtajbu'^Sl'wihe  wShr  li^og  befall 
(PiTS^jn  »  u" *.i"I7S^i5SulIirM£o  w   ■'"P^*«y. "J »•  tl" t">! ••  «I"«<1  -ilh! num. 

J.U?J'i™i<  l-v  nialUwie.  niJv w.<h  - 4  h«.  ™^1* i,^ i!?^,""?^ hi". ™k.'C  bm 
anrd.ilimiBilfiis^HiWnRiiiM.  JihlM  IM  jhpul.J:  ina  or  h-xl  mubt  more  ipUrcxpn 
vTi.e.ttlici..ni..BtKmwor.o(tb.  iwB«^h^   thcriui*1.rcft!.»(olift. 

tiir  iliiKhlv-t,  I'tnlH.  »tfh  EtinTunl,  hs  »■«- ,  „.(^  ,^  ^^j  ,„^,  „  be  moR  chHcl  ia 
T««;-.n.l...--.os''"tS'*h«™»*"n''"'^''il»rir«UBa<b«nwnk.  B>v.  .  gnvcr  lun  to 
i.lthi'  KliiiK.  liH  BctscdthHii  i»ll«ins  h«»  ,|kw  BofTiliioii  aoi  Iwram*  praortout  of  thUr 
''|»"™:V'*'"^'''=T|"J;   .dwiriiik-..    The  (jttbfuICi 


u<i«nlMjiHliBc  lb  u  ibe  c  ' 


mMook  It  for 


IH'nuAlrd  Ibc  limrhMUiitininellli 
juiltTuBI%i  Ihr  oriciB  (.1  the  '■"i'>™*i'''ii'J^,u^^  ",^ibeB,jofmi 

Bjn^iui  h^iBUE  rejd  in  Chtnauon' 

"'i'iwwmi'  miLirte  of  mmpwrtkin  miv  be  cm-  |it'h"p™"ii^!lJlB*of  il^'n"  wlJrKiv'fl^^X^ 
Tihl  •iih  iht  hiMn.-d  iUnt  laro  «nie  *.  ui.«-ti.  ■  .,^  Cith.qh-i  toaibs  Ihs  wnl  m  UuBdn  i.  not 
p.1i..ii..tliu.i.!h  ilw  |.n*™iiri«n«|i.jn  m«  i««    u,^,„u„„,  |,ul  Ibn  It  b CBlir loob  wbo  bach! 

m::-;:  'i':^:;:;" ;."a^-:;  :si^y„.v. .  ^^v.;!^™"^  !^.s^™  rJiKiSB™ " 

■luhu-M  ■>)  bit  l.t^ ;  nm  in  Ihesr  iiuibnuli.il  ,)Z  (ikb \rf  tSc  Settn  Slntm-  nbnc  ■nueiiurr 
■■lhr|H.Sl«Aiiiiu-lu%rhiFmperar<rf  the  World,  Thmi^a^l^.nj  ,he  conqunt  of  Afric.  bv  !Ce 
bill  nrftiM'  JUi  slMln  h»«uiilliw.,lim  »*irl    vjnJjla.     When  Ihe  Empcinr  Dcdul  peiwntcil 

rei:eivi;d.  dnnnietk  Eq  prn^  bv  the  Imnl,  «hi>  g>vc  ardflv 

IliHT  tlic  rnliiBce  ihmilil  he  fmO^  ttami  iriA 
1  pik  <i(  nimei.    lliey  immeduK^  fett  into  ■ 

viihout  iiijurinK  Ihe  nnren  ol  life,  dsliag  ■ 

period  nl  iMbe  hunilretl  ubd  eitihtv^eren  >«». 

r- 1  Al  llie  eod  o(  Ihal  lime  the  ilavn'nf  AiIbHui,  u 

^  '  nceiHlcd,  removed  the  Mortet  to  wpplr  mileHalk 
tirt  «bnr  (lie  mlruvl*  »cn'  neki,  lae  peoKiaAn  tor  anAe  ruvlif  edihce,  lire  hijht  of  the  kb 
■bctuTw  imiwBtIr  inte  (heiipopili  iheliieof  dined  Imn  (he  wcm,  md  ilw  seven  neeyen 
■M  wot  lur  a  lihU'  II)  then  l^'nl  al  *mflill<j-  weR  Bemiinrtl  to  iwite.  After  i  duiBber  ■> 
H.  'ilie  MiiJitiM,  liclni;  t-anouilT  it  i  lo*  to  tbw  Ifaoadii  oC  •  rcw  hoars  thei  ime  |icaKd 
iralJi  lint  Ihi'ir  vw\  inrentrd  inol  of  Iheir  :  bv  the  »lb  of  hunger  i  >Bd  molred  IhM  I*bi- 
nmhriiil  4dieiiturnr  Junin  uhmrrcs  that  the  biwhui,  mie  cf  tlicir  numlier.  ihoaM  •ecretl;r  re- 
lirr^LiBt  uvd  hi  oiUert  iibi  dI  (nld,  Ury,  uid  i  lam  Id  the  lilf  M  f  utiJiae  bread  for  the  um  of 
lier  lUdJii  ixirti  aBil  hi>tnruris  Ibi:  Biincki  and  bra  coiiipaakini.  The  ivulh,  if  we  my  niD  em- 
irti'uiTtii  Ik  tiKinil  Ihiri:,  md  lu'tonniMdated  ploy  that  appeUalion.  could  bo  krn^  neegniat 
icni  til  ihtiTiiun  inunk>>nd  ^uiiU.    llic  good  .  the  eni.-e  fjmiliar  aipcct  al  liii  uuire  owotryi 


tofore  the  JadRC.    Theft  mutui]  inqulrici  ptD< 

fricDdi  bul  txtvtd  iraai  tbe  n^  of  i  Pagan 
tmnt.  The  biuop  o(  Ephenu,  Ihe  clergy,  the 
inagiaETatcs,  the  people,  And,  it  il  sud,  the  Em- 
perof  Theodofiiu  himKlT,  hmened  to  1^1  the 
cAvcTD  &  tbe  Seven  Sleepen  i  who  batoned 
their  benediction,  related  iheir  ttory,  and  at  (he 

"This  popular  lale  Mahomet  leiraed  vhen  he 
diove  hl9  camcli  lo  the  fain  of  9>'Tia  i  and  he  has 


J  proloa  the  Mahometan  r 
'hii  "  Golden  Legend  ;'*  i 


eO  A  atory  wMch  any  not  be  vcr^  agtte- 

I  ecntJeman  perfrctly  pious  on   thit  principle ; 
ndeed  v  prat  wm  hx  mcnl  in  thit  apecits  of 


the  honour  of  PC 


gltMl  Jnnipct  did  Ihii,  nyi  hii  bioerapher.  having 
totd  iBwtutbe  did,  not  to  much  linni  hii  liit»luil 
Indinatiofil  lor  which  he  va>  n  tustly  celebrated, 
u  from  hit  excearive  piety,  and  u  much  »  he 
could  to  mortify  worldly  pride,  and  to  ibow  how 
ft  true  uinr  debited  clean  ilieetf. 


la  babble,  be  buahed  them  hy  desiriru  them  not 
"  'k'UttJe  of  (heiriiiier,  the  ni^bn^e.    At' 
1  fay  a  wolf,  with  only  the  ugn  manoil  of 


quentiy  praycil  ihal  God  would  bring  him  to  chat 
penitence  among  the  thorm  and  briars  of  a  fbrestr 


II  the  EvangcliBt  sm,  wher 


sat  down,  feeling  a  moat  livdv  pleuure  at  their 
fancy  i  arid  there  (hey  remained  tatoj  the  Naliviry 
of  Chriir  to  that  of  John  Ihe  Bap<IM;  but  (bis 

by  Ihem.  bi^ld  a  bcaudful'  child  scaled  on  a 
hutencil  to  the  abbess  with  ncvs  uf  these  stray 

runif  'Both  parth-s  were  eoually  astonished  to 
find  out  young  demleei  had  been  there  Imm 
the  Natiiity  of  Jesus  to  Ihal  of  St.  John.    The 

Such  is  one' of  thetc  miracles  of  "  the  Oohkn 
Legend,"  which  ft  wicked  wit  migbl  comtneni 
on.  and  see  no(blnf[  eirlraordinary  in  (he  whole 


TBE  POSTSOFAL  SOCIETT, 


ibnc  tc3n>fb;    Ribjidnuira'9  Lii 


es 


limpUcity  o(  M>'le,  ud   philcsopMcil   method! 

lurid,  iccunm  ml  dlrcniftcd  matterilf  t&\l  an 
jwhnlnble  work;  aotwilttaludine  the  wriien  ■' 
that  liins  had  to  cmanclintc  thcmeli-cs  f&ye 
•hebirtuiliinoflheKholMlic  lo^c  with  cautlou 


Burofie  luMKBd 


bid  nbtaincil  him,  ibnugh  Um  only  tmntT-cishl 
T»TV  of  uc.  His  brother,  Dc  ScrioHirt,  vfu  boil 
Hllownl  the  mUitary  pto^inon,  qiiilti:il  it  at  Ibr 
aametktle-  CooiecmiiiKtbcmiclreitolhet — '" 
of  God,  ther  tetiRd  Liila  a  inaJl  houu  dc 
rtorl-Kifiil  of  P»B.  wbLTC  Ibev  wen  joliu 
thdt  brothcn  De  Sacv,  de  M.  Elme.  and  Dc 


tbe  pDwcrTiil 


i  «od,,  « 


lecnMan  or  the  Joi 
IJrom  that  ipot,  Ihry 

il  Pirl-R-,,11  dii  Champt. 

Wilb  Ihoe  lUuilriou)  Rclmn  nu 
ftuhhed  pctKHis  nnw  TeliTnl,  who  bai 
th^r  parks  and  huuiea  to  be  appropfial 

Sntitlj  ^  Ftrt'RtJil, 

Thev  applkil  tbenihrlvea  to  the  educatioD  of 

wiitiooil,  wbiiv  the  members  of  Port'Ri^'a], 

)tdr;d.  None  conibdcRd  his  birth  enlltlcd  him  to 
lof  exempiioii  (mm  their  public  oHicn,  nlin'inE 
tbe  poor  and  attending  on  UK  sick,  and  empLoyinR 
tbcm^divs  in  Ibvir  ^nns  ami  e^rdeiH ;  thej  were 
carpenlera,  plouriimeo,  gardeners,  aod  viae>dress- 
m,  Kc.  ai  if  tiwy  bad  pnctHed  noibing  elK ; 
rtiey  stodled  phvsk,  an<l  surgery,  and  law ;  In 


Koyil,  enlarged  the  mooaatic  enctoaure  with  spa- 
cious nrdens  and  orchards,  built  a  noble  house, 
and  alien  retreated  to  its  seclusion.    The  Learned 

sludiout  hours,  trwrmi  to  tbe  cultivation  of  fruit' 
trees ;  and  the  Ihiit  of  Fort-Rojal  became  cele- 
brated Ibr  its  siae  ami  flavour.     Pn-scnia  were 


imauLd^  peisenited,  ai 
Ireal.  and  Uft  Uw  so 


l6)g,  waa  tbe  lalal  nnke  urbicb  iliipened  them 

The  COT)'  anil  tbc  fears  of  the  Jesuits,  and  tbrir 
rancour  igainrt  Arqaukl,  who  wilb  luch  ability 
had  erpo^  their  dcslips,  occasioned  the  destmc- 


long  called  tbe  little  schoob  of  Fort-Rojil  the  hot- 
bed of  heresy.     Greeoire,  In   hts    Interesting 

a]tectini;plrliu<eof  that  vlrtuoiU  society  when  the 
Jesuits  ohtalned  by  Ibdr  Intil^^ues  aa  order  from 
pDvrrnmcni  (a  break  II  up.  Tliey  razed  the 
buildlnfls,  and  plnu^ied  up  tlie  yen  foundation  ; 
they  cKhaLuieiL  ihcir  hatred  cveit  on  tbe  atones, 
and  profaned  ex'en  Ihe  sanctuary  of  the  dead ;  tbe 

were  sulfin^  to  contend  for  the  rags  of  rlicir 

existence,  the  iiKmory  of  that  uiyhim  of  Inno- 


-"  I  do  not  Tear  I'Our  /tfx,  but  its  1 
were  men  whom  the  ]ov€  of  ici 

of  pca^'e,  and  of  piety.   Tliey  I 


THE  PSOaSESS  OF  OLD  AGE  IN  NEW  STUDIES.  n 


tfae  occuiDn^  the 


1,  wu  B  clOKly  pumwd 


Armuld  iMuind  iflcr  Hn.  "Th^  ulk  of  * 
new  book  of  (ho  Pnn-Royal."  RrDnl  the  doctoc. 
"  Mtiibotnl  to  Arnnild  or  to  »*iy ;  bill  I  do  not 

wtU-"— ^' How,  sir  t"  «ciilnK(l  the  phLlovpher, 
loTKItlnj;  lib  vmntA  jind  wig;  "  beUcte  me  m/ 
nepbew  wittn  bt-ttci  thin  I  do."— The  phyncian 
eyed  hi»  pitieat  with  ■mazomcnt — be  hastned  to 
tbe  dgcheis  md  loJd  taur,  "  The  miladf  of  ibe 

provided  von  do  no(  su'tr  bim  to  lit  loy  one, 
■nd   loil't  on   hli  hatdlnn   hii  ton^rue."    The 

vcved  tn  her  palace.  She  ^ve  him  an  apirtmeni, 
eonreaied  him  in  her  chamber,  and  per^ited  Co 
attend  him  henelf.— "Aik."  ahe  Bid.  '■  what  ynu 


w  bononnblc  li  it  to 
T  than  Iheit  lonltndel 


n^tHUty  ii 


iceJIed. 


ce  of  that  heieditarr 


it  was  a  auUinie»  and.  perhaps  angular  union  of 
leaniDg  wHh  leliginn.  Tlie  Atnauldi.  Sacy. 
Pa.ic»l,Tilknionl,wilholhei  illimtioui  nin~  — 


THE  PROGRESS  OF  OT.D  AGE  IN 
Of  the  pleaniTes  derivahlc  from  the  ct 

abate  (he  ^jowing  pasaioD  ^  for  old  r 
chcrUh  an  aHection  and  lecla  youthful  en 
in  IhoK  punuilfl,  when  all  otben  hai'e  ( 

advanced  We  we  may  mume  our  forme 
them  with  the  tame  leliih  with  whi 
Slewitt  Idli  ua  thai  Adam  Emilh  obienii 


youth — a  remarlt.  wlikhj  in  his  nwn  cav.  aeemed 

(0  be  more  particularly  Gxemplided  while  he  was 
I'dn;.  with  the  enthniiiim  of  astudeni,  the 


in  his  old  aife  \  Cno,  at  eif;htr.  thoHKht  proper  to 

K'^nsard.  one  of  the  fathers  of  Prench  poetry, 
applied  himself  late  to  aludy.  Hi*  aenle  geniiis 
and  ardent  application.  livaUcd  thme  poetic 
models  which  lie  admired;  and  Boccaccio  wu 

Tlw  great  Amauld  retained  the  vigour  o  bis 
genius,  and  the  command  of  his  pen,  to  hit  last 

Sir  Henry  Spelman  negleeied  the  sciences  in  his 
ycalh.  but  cultivated  Ihem  at  lifty  i-ean  of  age. 
and  produced  good  fruil.  His  early  years  were 
chleny  passed  In  farming,  which  greatly  diverted 

pplntment  rapecting  a  coutestcd  estate  distasted 


Mnses.  and  Ihey  crovriked  hi 


Marquis  de  Saint  Aulaire.  al  rbe  a; 
began  to  court  the  Muses,  ov  "  " 
with  Iheir  (rcshcsc  Auwcn. 
Fnneh  Anacreon  are  lul' 

Chaueen   CaolerhuiT 


n.  noticed  by  VolUlre,  wl 


•^"Z 


by  VolUlre,  who  I 
irfcable  Instances  o 


cliirhtful   of  autohlDiinphies  lor 

..   — -  Jf  Bmvenuto  CeUinii  a  Hork  of 

great  origlnalily,  which  waa  not  begixn  (ill  **  the 
clock  of  nil  1^  had  struck  bftv-eighl," 

Koomhert  began  at  foRr  lo'Ieam  the  Latin  and 
Greek  languages,  of  which  he  became  a  maater  i 

lircrary  pursuits.    Ogilby.th.  IrjnslaTor  of  Homer 
was  past  fitly  i  and  prankLin's  philoaophical  pur- 


SPASISB  POETBT. 


■uib  begu  wbcu  he  hid  nurtrmcbtd  bit  Gtteth 

indw  he  b^uk  it  lite,  but  thwid  therefore 

Dryden'i  complete  works  iorm  the  lirgeit  hody 
ot  pcnAn  ftDm  Ihe  pen  of  one  wrilci  in  the 
Bn^nh liDgauc  1  vet  hepie  nopuhlicietiimony 
af  poetic  ibilEtin  lilJ  hn  iwcnty-Kvcath  fear. 
|q  nil  iiity-elshth  jeir  be  propowd  to  tnniljte 
the  whole  lliid;  itid  hit  mm  pleislof  produc- 

Mich4el  Ap^Io  proctVed  bii  creilive  genliu 


othenriie  Pottiiu  de  Hhingelben^.  The  enihu- 
avm  of  the  writer  often  arnvt  him  to  the  verge 
of  hdicule;  but  lOEtTething  mult  be  fETuiled  to 

u  thil  thli  method  of  itudytDt;  hid  been  Ibnned 
cntltcl]'  Rem  bn  own  pnciical  knowledge  Bitil 
bird  eipcnenee :  at  ■  late  peiiod  of  Life  he  eoo^- 

Ihat  he  had  discovered  a  more  perpeuUcular  mode 


Menage,  in  hi*  Anti-BaiUeT,  bat  a  vefy  cotloiu 

■hawing  hgw  manf  poeti  amuaed  Ihemvlvei  not- 
withitanding  thrir  grey  hain,  and  wtqh  HnnMi 

La  Caaa,,  in  one  of  hii  ktlen,  humotouslv  uld, 


Je  lea  pDaieday  jeun 


Tbetr  ■wma  an  modi  in  the  atjrk  of  oat  Cowlej' 


— chvlal  pointt,  raoaatront  raetaphon,  and  quaint 
[Xintrifi.  JI  ia  evident  that  (he  Spanbh  poeta 
imported  thii  tatfe  from  the  time  of  Marino  in 

ippean  to  have  redoubled  it,  and  to  have  blovm 
Lopea  de  Vega, 


f  hit  puiarali.  who  is  repretenlc 


jOyfuUX  advancei 


Valegre  decogeiua 
Lai  guanla  en  coachu,  y  convler 


laced  with  tb^  golden  Mood,"  ViUegaa  mon- 
doubt  the  power  of  Lydia^  mi-— you  will  find  it 
that  thou  canit  only  imitate  thyKlfwIth  thv  own 


Of  a  voung  and  beautiful  lady  he  aayi,  (hat 
she  haa  bu(  a  fewj/dr/  of  life,  but  many  a^ei  of 


"  Hanquum.  Min^anam, 
EatOH  Duqu<  de  Arroyos, 
He  did  not  venture  to  eail  it  a  Stanuti  fanjet, 

who  aaki  Ibr  water  in  die  deplhinf  hell." 

Concerning  this  river  a  jrieaiant  witticism  ji 
ncotded.    "nKHigh  ao  wuU,  thn  atum  in  the 


SAINT  ErSEMOSD.—liES  OF  OEHrCS,  &e.                        J9  | 

time  of  .  flood  »n  >prwl  itKlf  om  tht  neigh. 

along  life.    Old.  I  disliked  economy ;  a.  1  beiiert 

booHog  field.;  for  thi.  tcuon  rtiUp  Uk  SKOnd 

that  we  need  not  greally  dread  want,  when  we 

boilt  1   bndgc    tltvtn     buDdrtd     fiKt    long!— A 

have  but  1  abort  time  to  be  mixiable.    1  am 

•puiiild  pawng  it  one  *!>-,  -hen  il  <rai  pdfedlv 
dIT.ol-eT^■it.g  &i.»up.Tbtridgi.  .rchl^  nmirked^, 

utiibed  with  what  nature  hu  done  ibr  me.  nor  do 

1  rejnne  il  fonaae.    1  do  not  Kek  io  men  what 

"Tliit  it  VDuld  be  proper  thil  Ibe  bridge  itiould 

they  have  of  evil.  Ihal  t  may  ceniure  j  I  odIt 
dbcover  whit  they  hue  ridlciilout,  that  1  mav  be 

'■'!'""■'"""''""«"'■ 

imuKd.    tfa:la)>leaH.tcindel«tinKlheiifbllie>; 

The  following  clenni  mniiition  of  i,  Spmith 
raidhgiil  or  tbe  kind  here  criticised  I  fonnd  in  * 

1  >faould  feel  1  greater  in  commnnlcatlng  my  dif 

covcriei  did  >>« jny  prudence  leHrain  me.    U(e 

Fndleu  number  of  thlngt  It  the  eott  of  miijudg- 

On  the  green  mirgin  of  Ihe  Hod, 

^l^^Bk^i:,'^^.'^' 

moil  ritionil.  that  I  may  itrengtben  my  rcaiom. 

A^^hll'^m^den 
■Oie  River  God  io  number  uy  her  Ijid  ; 

ta«r  may  Imbibe  their  delicacvi  •omelimB,  for 
Ihe  gayer,  Ibal  1  may  enrich  my  geniua  with  Ihdr 
gaiefy,  and.  although  Icomtutly  read,  1  make  it 

CUd'iD  bii  wat°rv  n^  ippmach'd  the  maid. 

AiHl  irtih  eolrfklB.  like  d«th, 

Dnnk  the  rich  peiinme  of  the  mnidcn*)  bre»lh. 
The  Buiden  felt  Ihil  lev  ki». 

u  1  am-^n  Iricndibin  more  tender  than  a  nhi- 
lDHph<r ;   and  in    religion.  ai    conilant  and  u 
•incere  ai  a  youlh  who  hi)  more  limplicily  than 

Btf  ami  tKuieai.  Iluirjitmt 

and  charity  than  of  penitence.    I  rest  my  con- 
tldence  on  God,  and  hope  every  thli»  trom  bis 

Fall  and  onclooded  on  th'  inlruiler  cimc. 

HilfiMl-J  Ivdy  null. 

my  iipote.  and  my  fclicity." 

Aid  Jknrd  (Ar  'odUina  »l  Ml  tuont  Aill ; 

Thi  Jludcnlwbo  may.  perhaps,  shine  a  lumi- 

naty  of  learning  rod  of  geniu.,  in  the  pagca  of  hii 

volume.  It  found,  not  rarely,  to  lie  obscured  be- 

Thi  portnit  of  St.  EiTrmond,  ilclinnlcd  far 

pti.acieiof  hi.  itudy.    It  U  in  the  hour  of  eon- 

Tbti  witter  potKHcd  dehcuy  mil  wit,  lad  hai 

lidcDce  and  trannuilliiy  Ihat  hi.  genius  shall  elicil 

Wfttlca  well,  but  iritb   great    iocquiUn-.     Hii 
poetry  >•  'n^pW.  "id  hii  jmne    jbound.  with 

a  ray  of  Intclllicencr.  more  (crrid  than  Ihe  liboun 

KliU!  the  uilitheti. »»  hh'brnnrKe  ligure.  .«i 

The  great  Peter    Comeille,  whose  gcnim  re- 

fonlbly  eiprened  Ihe  luhlime  KMiments  of  the 

hem.  had  tuthiug  in  his  eitcrior  Ihit  Indicated  bis 

In  hl>  diy  It  wu  1  litcnry  fulilon  lor  wrilcx  U 

&lpid'tbal  it  nerer  biled  of  wearying.    Nature, 

pit  Iheii  own  ponmilii  ■  fuhion  that  leemi  Io 
bnc  puied  orer  into  nor  couoitv,  lor  ftequhar 

who  bad  bvlsbed  on  him  the  mm  of  geniu.  bad 
forgonen  to  bknd  wHh  them  Iter  mo^  oidlnary 

Udy.    OlhenofoiitirritciihaitKiyen  thiKKlf- 

ones.    He  did  no(  e'en  iMt  correeily  that  lan- 

mlniUurei.    Such  piinten  arc,  no  doubl,  gttit 

nutnm,  and  it  i.  laiher  Ihcir  ingenuity  than 

duir  truth,  which  we  admiie  in  theie  ciblnet- 

mme  he  rni^t  please  by  nol  dlrfaJning  to  correct 

^ctnrB. 

■errtition  a>  (ram  impieii ;   a  rolnnluaiy,  who 

was  tileni  in  mixed  cmnpanT  i  and  Thomas  de- 
Kriba  his  mind  by  saying  that  be  had  received 

cHiution  for  plMure;   a  m»n,  who  hai  nerer 

his  intellectual  wealth  (nm  nature  In  solid  bats, 
though  he  carried  none  of  il  in  bis  pocket ;  or  as 

JSai'oSy"rtih.Vcn™cT^  IhJSe'who  hJ« 

'^^cl'^'l^^,J^^'^tX-£7iK^?,^. 

Ro'yai  Winy!  said  of  'a  scinmiant  wit—"  He  eon' 

40                                         TIDA.—THE  SCCDEJIIES.                                              \ 

quer<  me  in  the  drawinc-ronm.  but  he  ^umnOers 
say  wilh  Themi.tocle-.  when  »ked  lo  phyon  i 

M.^iocri'R'can "iJi^r ^ut  it  is  for  genius  id 

bivini  pissed  an  eienin:;  in  his  company,  to " a 
•item 'parson  in  ille-wi.K."    It  ts  no  shame  for  an 

hebjsonlytobhish  when  he  calls  down  those  ol 

more  an  ardiniry'man  Ihan  an  cnchJnling  poel. 

La  Fonuine,  a\t  1.)  Bmyerc,  appeared  coarse, 
hearr,  and  stupid ;  he  cnoltl  not  mak  or  describe 
whithehadiuVti^n:  hut  when  U  wrote  be  was 
IhemKlelof'pocrryj^     ^               otwrrer 
Fnntaine,  to  he  a  man  of'  wit,  or  a  bat  i  but  la  be 
balb,  and  thai  too  in  Ibe  extreme  degree.  It  Indeed 
admirable,  and  only  to  be  found  In  htm.    Tbi. 

tales  than  In  bis  converdtion  i  and  the  Connievof 
Pembroke  used  to  nlli'  him  bv  savin,:  tli^I  his 
silence  was  more  agieeabk:  to  her  than  bis  coorci- 

"iSiatet,  celebrated  fee  hi*  beanlifnl  ontmlejl 

Bn-er  stniurcd  tospsakin  pulilic.     He  comp.iral 

wred  as  inodi'ls  to  other  orators.     VaiKumon 
w.n.  «id  to  tie  as  mnch  a  machine  as  an,'  lie  luid 

In  Jirn.  1  nm  ^mne  ot  lhc«  who  endeivour  lo 
l.n'il:  j^.,t,  ill  c<>miii:i-,  or  m.ike  repartees." 

bis  cbihl,  by  iIk  rtinrii  of  his  own  menw,  attain 

nente!    Wtiat  a  transport  ior  ihe  man  of  leniJhi- 
liiv  lo  relnm  lo  thi-obsciiie  dwelBuK  of  hit  parent, 
and  to  embrace  him,  adnmed  wilh  pidilie  hoaonn  7 
Poor  «Uu  waa  deprived  of  Ibis  satisfaction  1  hut  lie 
is  placed  hiiher  in  onr  i-iteem  bv  the  prevnl 
anecdote  than  even  bs-  lh:il  clanic  composition, 
which  rivah  ibe  Art  of^Pnetry  of  bis  great  mister. 
Jitmu  CaU.  after  hiiii^  long  .etv«t  iwd  Pope., 
at  lenglb  aitained  to  the^piscV"-    AiriyeSln 
the  robes  of  his  new  dimirv,  he  prepared  la  vi«l 
bis  aged  patents,  and  feliciisted  himself  with  the 
r.iptum  which  the  old   couple   would   feel   in 
embracing  their  «n  as  Iheir  liishop.     wlien  be 
arni-ert  at  thrtr  vllljge.  he  IcunI  thai  it  wis  but  a 

?weeictt  pathos  dcplon.^  .^deatb  and  Ibe  .Ssap- 

THE  KCt'DERIES. 
Bicn  heureiu  Srunm,  doM  la  fertile  plume 

BoiLiAi:  has  written  this  couplet  on  the  Scu- 
derio,  Ihe  bmthet  and  liter,  both  famous  in  their 
div  for  composing  rominccs  which  Ibey  tome- 
liines  mtcndcd  to  ten  or  twelve  volume*.    II  was 
Ibe  f.ii'ouTile  hicraiure  of  thai  period,  as  novels  aie 

The  .tonlnulive  sIh  of  our  modern  novels  i> 
Ibe  sije  oT  primcn,  it  were  to  be  wi4ied  It^ 

irni>bing''the  eventful  hislwyof  two  tov'en  at  one 

composed  n^v^f™;'    sl2^d  even  h^ed 
another  mmance,  which  the  would  not  ^ve  Ihe 
publie,  wh»c  ta>te,  ilie  perceived,  no  mon  le- 
Ued  dii*  kind  of  irorki.    She  was  one  ot  those 

bineij  yeanofai^'iAurs'ive  Iheir  own  celebricy. 

She  had  lier  panenyrisls  in  her  day:   Menage 
obvrves  "  What  a  pleaMng  deicripiioa  has  Msde- 
mniselle  Scnilov  made,  Inlicr  Ctrus,  of  the  hnle 

nsmuKC  of  Ibis  learwd  Udy  i<:ndertbem  InesM- 
maMe.     Mie  has  drawn  fmm  the  an.ienta  Iheir 
hapinesi  favojes,  and  has  oen  improved  upon 

t-Mches  becomes  goH.    We  may  read  her  works 
Kith  pelt  praM,  IT  we  possess  a  correct  taste,  and 

onlv  show  the  Itltlenen  of  Iheir  Judgment  i  as  if 
Homer  and  Virgil  were  to  be  d«^,  because 
maiv  of  Iheir  books  are  filled  with  e^sodes  and 
incidents  thai  nei-eiurilr  retard  Ihe  concliidon. 

that  Cynii  ^  Ctrlia  are  a  species  of  Ibe  tfK 
poem.'  The  epk  must  embtace  a  number  of 
events  to  tuspi-nd  the  cosirse  of  the  namlivei 
which  onh-  taking  in  a  p.sn  nrthe  liii:  of  the  hem, 
would  terminate  loo  soon  lo  displav  the  skill  of 

uniling  the  greiler  part  of  Ihe  episodes  to  the 
piincllvd  subject  of  the  romance  would  he  tost. 

turns,  hill  become  somewhai  obsolete,  jJI  Ibe  teil 

Menage  ^  here  ceidlply  uiienJd  a  fake  pro- 
phecy.    The  curious  wi^l^*  over  her  romances. 

THE  srrnrnrf:.-^. 


4r 


Tfiev  oontiin  doiibtle^^  m:my  h-eiii!ifu;  ir.vciitir.iis  ; 
the  ini*t')rtiinc  i^,  tli.it  l^rre  .iiui  f^.nur.,,-  .irc  r  irc 
RquisKcs  lor  the  enjoyment  of  these  Iliad-*  u\ 
prose. 

"The  misfortune  of  her  having  written  too 
abundantly  has  occasioned  an  unjust  contempt," 
say*  a  French  critic.  "  We  confeaft  there  arc  many 
heavy  and  tedious  passages  in  her  %'oluminous 
romances;  but  if  we  con<ddcT  that  in  the  ClcUa 
and  the  Aitamene  are  to  be  fourul  inimitable 
dcbcate  touches,  and  many  splendid  partn  which 
would  do  honour  to  some  of  our  living  writers,  we 
must  acknowledge  that  the  grejt  defects  of  all  her 
works  arise  from  her  not  writing  in  an  age  when 
taste  had  reached  the  acm^  of  cultivation.  Such 
b  her  erudition,  that  the  French  place  her  next  to 
the  celebrated  Madame  Dacier.  Her  works,  con- 
taining many  secret  intrigues  of  the  court  and  city, 
her  readers  must  have  Keenly  relished  on  th«r 
early  publication." 

Her  Artamenes,  or  the  Great  C}tus,  and  princi- 
pally her  Clelia,  are  representations  of  what  then 
passed  at  the  court  of  France.  The  Map  of  the 
Kmgdvm  ^  Tendtmtss,  in  Clelia,  appeared,  at  the 
time,  as  one  of  the  happiest  inventions.  This 
once  celebrated  map  is  an  allegory  which  distin- 
guishes the  different  kinds  of  Tenderness,  which 
are  reduced  to  esteem,  gratitude,  and  inclination. 
The  map  represents  three  rivers,  which  have  these 
three  names,  and  on  which  are  utuated  three 
towns  called  Tenderness  :  Tenderness  on  Inclina- 
twn ;  Tenderness  on  Esttem ;  and  Tenderness  on 
Gratitude.  PUatmg  jtttentieru,  or  Petit  Soins^  is  a 
vUlage  very  beautifully  situated.  Mademoiselle  dc 
Scudery  was  extremely  proud  of  this  little  alle- 
gorical map ;  and  had  a  terrible  contro\'criy  with 
another  writer  about  its  originality. 

GcoRGB  ScL'DKRY,  her  brother,  an^  inferior  in 
genius,  had  a  striking  singularity  of  character : — he 
was  one  of  the  most  complete  votaries  to  the 
nnivenal  divinity  of  Vanity.  With  a  heated  ima- 
ginatKMi,  entirely  destitute  of  judgment,  his  mili- 
tary character  was  continually  exhibiting  itself  by 
that  peaceful  iastrument  the  pen,  so  that  he  ex- 
hibits a  most  amusing  contrast  of  ardent  feelings 
in  a  cool  situation;  not  liberally  endowed  witn 
cenius,  but  abounding  with  its  semblance  in  the 
mc  of  eccentric  gasconade ;  no  man  has  portraved 
his  own  character  with  a  bolder  colouring  tnan 
himself  in  his  numerous  prefaces  and  addresses ; 
•urroundcd  by  a  thousand  self-illusions  of  the  most 
sublime  clas,  everything  that  related  to  himself 
had  an  Honteric  grandeur  of  conception. 

In  an  cpisde  to  the  Duke  of  Montmorency,  he 
ays,  "I  will  learn  to  write  with  my  left  hand, 
that  my  right  hand  may  more  nobly  be  devoted  to 
your  service  /'  and  alluding  to  his  pen,  {plume,) 
declares  "  he  comes  from  a  family  who  never  used 
one,  bat  to  stick  in  their  hats."  When  he  solicits 
small  favours  from  the  great,  he  assures  them 
"that  princes  must  not  think  him  importunate, 
and  fbat  his  writings  are  merely  inspired  by  his 
own  individual  interest ;  no !  (he  exclaims)  I  am 
stndious  only  of  your  glory,  while  I  am  careless  of 
my  own  fortune."  And  indeed,  to  do  him  justice, 
he'  acted  ap  to  these  romantic  fieelings.  After  he 
had  publisied  his  enic  of  Alaric,  Christina  of 
Swedeo  VTopotcd  to  nonour  him  with  a  chain  of 
gold  of  the  value  of  five  hundred  pounds,  provided 


.f 


hr  w^uNi  r\[.ii!\_'.'  ;r"':,  :l.^  f-;  !;,»'  <■;,!(■' 
lie  bcNld-Af"!  (;:i  l!if  (■  .,'if  I,;  <,.■.!  ■■.  •.■.  I.-,-; 
had  di.-^Tiiceii.  The  cpn  ,il  vvil  (t  >.  i..:  i\  m  i'- 
nanimously  scome<l  the  bnh.-.  and  rn-lied.  that 
"  If  the  chain  of  gfild  should  l)e  as  wci»;htv  as  tli  it 
chain  mentioned  in  the  hi!»tor>-  of  the  Incis,  I  will 
ne*'cr  destroy  any  altar  on  >ihith  I  ha\c  saeri- 
hccd!" 

Proud  of  hLs  boasted  nobility  and  erratic  life,  he 
thus  addresses  the  reader  :  "  You  will  li^htlv  p.i« 
over  any  faults  in  my  work,  if  you  reflect  th.it  I 
have  employed  the  greater  p.irt  of  my  life  in  seeing 
the  finest  parts  of  Europe,  and  that  I  have  p.Lv%ed 
more  days  in  the  camp  than  in  the  lihrar>-.  I  have 
used  more  matches  to  li^ht  my  musket  than  to 
light  my  candles ;  I  know  Inrtter  to  arTan^c 
columns  in  the  field  than  thmc  on  paper ;  and  to 
S(|uare  battalions  Inrtter  than  to  round  jiericMU." 
In  his  tinkt  publication,  he  iK-ein  hin  liter.iry 
career  perfectly  in  character,  by  a  ch.dleiiife  to  his 
critics  t 

He  is  the  author  of  sixteen  pl.i)-^,  chiefly  hcroio 
tragedies;  children  who  all  tn-af  the  features  df 
their  father.  He  tir»t  introduced  in  his  "  I.'Anuiur 
T>Tanniquc  "  a  strict  ol)scrvance  of  the  Aristotelian 
unities  of  time  and  place  -.  and  the  nect-vtity  and 
advantages  of  this  regulation  are  intisted  on,  whii  h 
only  shows  that  AristotleSart  ^oes  hut  little  tu  the 
composition  of  a  pathetic  trai^cdy.  In  his  last 
drama,  "  Arminius,"  he  extravagantly  scatter*  his 
puncg>Tics  on  its  hfteen  prcilecewors';  hut  of  the 
present  one  he  ha»  the  most  exalted  notion :  it  is 
the  quintessence  of  St  uder>- 1  An  ingenious  critic 
calls  it  "The  downfall  of  mediocrit>  !"  It  ik 
amusing  to  listen  to  this  hla/ing  preface—"  At 
length,  reader,  nothing  remains  for  me  but  to 
mention  the  great  Arminius  which  I  now  preMrnt 
to  you,  and  by  which  I  have  resolved  to  close  my 
long  and  laborious  course.  It  is  indeed  my 
mastcrpiecc !  and  the  most  finished  work  thit 
ever  came  from  my  pen  ;  lor  whether  we  examine 
the  fable,  the  manners,  the  sentiments,  or  the 
versihcation.  it  is  certain  that  I  nc\er  iH-rtorin'.'d 
anything  so  just,  so  great,  nor  more  heautiiul ; 
and  if  my  labours  could  ever  deserve  a  crown,  I 
would  claim  it  for  this  work  !" 

The  actiom  of  this  singular  personage  were  in 
unison  with  his  writings  :  he  gives  a  pompous  de- 
scription of  a  most  imitnportant  government  w  hich 
he  obtained  near  Marseilles,  but  all  the  grandeur 
existed  only  in  our  author's  heated  imai;iiiiti'in. 
Bachaumoiit  and  De  la  Chapelle,  two  wits  oi  tiiote 
times,  in  their  playful  "  Voyage,"  describe  it  with 
humour : 

Mais  il  faut  vous  parlcr  du  fort 
(jui  saas  doutc  est  unc  meneillc ; 
C'est  notre  dame  de  la  garde  I 
Gouvcrnement  commode  et  beau, 
A  qui  suflit  pour  tout  garde, 
Un  Suisse  avec  sa  halebardc 
Peint  sur  la  porte  du  ch.lteau  1 

A  fort  very  com modiously  yarded  ;  only  reciuiring 
one  sentinel,  and  tliat  sentinel  a  soldier  painted  on 
the  door  I 

In  a  poem  on  his  di^ist  with  tiic  world,  he 
tells  us  how  intimate  he  has  been  with  princes : 
£urope  has  known  him  through  all  her  provinces! 
he  venturea  everything  in  a  tliousand  combats  i 


J 


43 


DE  LA  ROCHEFOUCAULT.— PRIORS  HANS  CARVEL. 


L'on  me  vit  obe'ir,  Ton  mc  vit  commander, 

Et  mon  poii  tout  poudreux  a  blanchi  tous  les 

armes ; 
II  C9t  peu  dc  beaux  arts  ou  je  ne  sois  instruit ; 
En  prose  ct  en  vers,  mon  nom  fit  quelque  bniit ; 
Et  par  plus  d'un  chemin  je  par>-itu  i  la  gloire  ! 

IMITATED. 

Princes  were  proud  mv  friendship  to  proclaim, 
And  Europe  gazed,  wncre'cr  her  Hero  came  ! 
I  crasp'd  the  laurels  of  heroic  strife. 
The  thousand  perils  of  a  soldier's  life  ! 
Obedient  in  the  ranks  each  toilful  day ! 
Thouj^h  heroes  soon  command,  they  first  obey. 
'Twas  not  for  me,  too  long  a  time  to  vicld  I 
Bom  for  a  chieftain  in  the  tented  field  1 
Around  my  plumed  helm,  my  silvery  hair 
Hung  like  an  honoured  wreatn  of  age  and  care  ! 
I'he  finer  arts  have  charm 'd  my  studious  hours, 
Versed  in  their  mysteries,  skilful  in  their  powers; 
In  verse  and  prose  my  c<jual  genius  glow'd, 
Pursuing  glory,  by  no  single  road  I 

Such  was  the  vain  George  Scudery !  whose 
heart,  however,  was  warm ;  poverty  could  never 
degr.jjle  him  ;  adversity  never  broke  down  his 
magnanimous  spirit ! 


DE  LA  ROCHEFOUCAULT. 

The  maxims  of  this  noble  author  are  in  the 
hands  of  every  one.  To  those  who  choose  to  de- 
rive every  motive  and  every  action  from  the  soli- 
tar>'  principle  of  Jtlf-love,  they  are  inestimable, 
lliey  fonn  one  continued  satire  on  human  nature ; 
but  they  arc  not  reconcilable  to  the  feelings  of 
the  man  of  more  generous  dispositions,  or  to  nim 
who  passes  through  life  with  the  firm  integrity  of 
virtue.  Even  at  court  we  find  a  Sully,  a  Males- 
herbes,  and  a  Clarendon,  as  well  as  a  Rochefoucauit 
and  a  Chesterfield. 

The  Duke  de  la  Rochefoucauit,  says  iiegrais,  had 
not  studied  ;  but  he  was  endowed  with  a  wonder- 
ful degree  of  discernment,  and  knew  the  world 
perfectly  well.  This  afforded  him  opportunities  of 
makini;  reflection^,  and  reducing  into  maxims 
those  di!*coverie"«  which  he  had  made  in  the  heart 
of  man,  of  which  he  displayed  an  admirable  know- 
ledge. 

It  i*  perhaps  worthy  of  obscr\-ation  that  this 
I  celebrated  French  dulce,  according  to  Olivet  in 
his  History  of  the  French  Academy,  could  never 
summon  resolution,  at  his  election,  to  address  the 
Academy.  Although  chosen  a  member,  he  never 
entered;  for  such  was  his  timidit}',  that  he  could 
nut  face  an  audience  and  pronounce  the  usual 
compliment  on  his  introduction ;  he  whose  courage, 
wliosj  birth,  and  whose  genias,  were  alike  distin- 
gui^heil.  'Hie  fact  is,  as  it  appears  by  Mad.  de 
S^-vi^ne,  that  Rochefoucauit  lived  a  close  domestic 
lite  ;  there  must  l)e  at  leaxt  as  much  tfuorttical  as 
practical  knowledge  in  the  opinions  of  such  a 
retired  philosopher. 

Chesterfield,  our  EneUsh  Rochefoucauit,  we  are 
also  informed,  posaesKd  an  admirable  knowledge 
of  the  heart  of  man ;  and  he  too  has  drawn  a  simi- 
lar picture  of  human  nature  I  These  are  two  nobU 
authors  whose  chief  studies  seem  to  have  been 


made  in  courts.  May  it  not  be  poarible,  aHowiog 
these  authors  not  to  have  written  a  sentence  oi 
apocrypha,  that  the  fault  lies  not  so  much  in  human 
nature  as  in  the  satellites  of  Power  ? 


PRIOR'S  HANS  CARVEL. 

Werk  we  to  investigate  the  cencalogy  of  oar 
best  modern  stories,  we  should  often  discover  the 
illegitimao-  of  our  favourites ;  should  trace  tbesa 
frequently  to  the  East.  My  well-read  friend,  Mr. 
Douce,  has  collected  materials  for  such  a  work; 
but  his  modesty  has  too  long  prevented  him  from 
receiving  the  gratitude  of  the  curious  in  literature. 

The  story  of  the  rinj?  of  Hans  Car\'el  Is  of  vm 
ancient  standing,  as  are  most  of  the  tates  of  this 
kind. 

Menage  says  that  Poggius,  who  died  in  1459, 
has  the  merit  of  its  invention ;  but  I  suspect  he 
only  related  a  very  popular  stor> . 

Rabelsus,  who  has  given  it  in'  his  peculiar  man- 
ner, changed  its  original  name  of  Philephus  to  that 
of  Hans  Carvel. 

This  title  is  likewise  in  the  eleventh  of  Ut 
Cent  NowvelUt  SouitlUs  collected  in  1461,  fbt 
the  amusement  of  Louis  XI.  when  Dauphin,  and 
living  in  solitude. 

Ariosto  has  borrowed  it,  at  the  end  of  his  fifth 
Satire ;  but,  by  his  pleasant  manner  of  relating  it, 
it  is  fairly  appropriated. 

In  a  collection  of  novels  at  Lyoa<«,  in  155$,  it  is 
also  employed,  in  the  elc\'enth  novel. 

Celio  Malehpini  lias  it  again  in  page  a88  of  the 
second  part  of  tiis  1'wo  Hundred  Novels,  printed  at 
Venice  in  1609. 

Font.iine  has  prettily  set  it  off,  and  an  anonymous 
writer  has  composed  it  in  Latin  Anacreontic  verses; 
and  at  length  our  Prior  has  given  it  in  his  best 
manner,  with  equal  gaiety  and  fre<»lom.  After 
Ariosto,  La  Fontaine,  and  Prior,  let  us  hear  of  it 
no  more ;  yet  this  has  been  done. 

Voltaire  has  a  curious  essay  to  show  that  most 
of  <n\r  best  modem  stories  and  plots  originally 
belonged  to  the  eaKtern  nations,  a  fact  which  has 
been  made  more  evident  by  recent  researches. 
The  Amphitrion  of  Mclitire  was  an  imitation  of 
Plautiis,  who  liorrowed  it  from  the  Greeks,  and 
thev  took  it  from  the  Indians  I  It  is  given  by  Dow 
in  his  History  of  HindONtan.  In  Captain  Scott's 
I'ales  and  Anecdotes  from  Arabian  writers,  we  are 
surprised  at  finding  so  many  of  our  favourites  very 
ancient  orientalists. — Tlie  Ephesian  Matron,  %'crsi- 
fied  by  La  Fontaine,  was  liorrowed  from  the 
Italians;  it  is  to  be  found  in  Petronius,  and  Petro- 
nius  had  it  from  the  Greeks.  But  where  did  tiie 
Greeks  find  it  ?  In  the  Arabian  Tales !  And  from 
whence  did  the  Arabian  fabulists  borrow  it  ?  Prom 
the  Chinese !  It  is  found  in  Du  Halde,  who  col- 
lected it  from  the  Verrions  of  the  Jesuits. 


THE  STUDENT  IN  THE  METROPOUS. 

A  MAN  of  letters,  who  is  more  intent  on  the 
acquisitions  of  literature  than  on  the  plots  of 
politics,  or  the  speculatioiis  of  commerce,  will 
find  a  deeper  solitude  in  a  populous  metropolis 
than  in  the  seclusion  of  the  country. 


THE  TALMVD. 


Tbe  iDidfnt,  irtio  b  no  Aiiurt  ai  the  lil 
pigeon*  of  meniwijl  col  be  much  Incomnio* 
\ti  tbdi  praentF.  olbbon  puoH  hit  own  si 
tlon  In  the  heiR  aS  the  riJiioniblE  wnild  :- 
liwl  not  been  endowed  by  an  or  nitdrc  vrith  th 
hmy  girti  of  canMcnce  uid  addien  whkb  i 
lock  erery  door  inJ  enry  hoiom.    UliUeciue 


boob.    I  KiilKlrew  «'[th<ini  returtum  Am 

p>nr,  okI  dMpalkn  ii^lbont  pleBure." 
eres  after  he  h^  pnUMivd  the  fim  Tirinme  of  bis 
Hinoif,  beobwn  thil  in  London  hli  canKnE' 
ni>-Dt  wn  wiliEuy  ud  ud ;  "  thj  mapy  TnT^ot  Tn> 
aiitence^KD  tneyiivmenolonEeritBtaoka'ii, 
uid  the  few  whn  nnKtlin?!  hida  Ibout^t  on  Ihcli 


;.ntu-  dMcriW   In 


dneriplions  vifb  great  force  u 

the  Chattiviii,  or»  p 


nrdi'Udout  i)[[i, 
of  the  Idt  yeir 
nVty-bouK  nuy  hi 


:  I  ipent  lo  grejit 
lowei-cr  ^creeabk 

n  only  be  (bund  1: 


unknown  to  UK  world.  I  wiljc  ererj  dir  unom 
lininrnu  ranks  of  people,  with  ai  mncb  tniuju 
illy  BE1  you  do  In  ywu  green  alley* .  Tbe  men 
meet  with  m:ikc  fhe  umc  im|rmiian  on  my  mil 
u  would  tlie  rrcet  of  jvur  forcttf,  or  tite  llodca 
•heep  eraiing  on  your  common.    Tlw  buiy  hut 

lluii  dte  pui<in<  of  i-onr  hmoki.  If  lanKiinKi 
amuw  myuir  In  con'lemplalinif  their  anxlout  m 
tiani.  t  teaii-c  >tae  lame  pl»>"<  nrhkb  vou  do 
obaen'Inic  (bote  men  who  cnltlvale  vour  land  i  I 

Irdlectthit  Ibeenderalllhelrbbourtla  id 
belUih  ibe  city     

the  fnilu  pf  jr 


gcH  p>m.    Tbe  word  of  Osd    i 
o>e  bean  of  bumin  invenlionv  lanc- 


rlentlv  ample  account  of  tlw  Tf 
■Mba ;  bnl  of  the  ■onhaii  I  onij 
..  -  colleetkiD  of  Ibe  (iii!ilia«>i  ai 
Turkiih  prophet*,  directing 


of  the 

,  ,  ince  of 

p«tir  nipet>tli)oni  nol  menHoned  io  the  Koran. 

The  TtLHUD  i<  a  coUectlon  of  Jewi>h  Indltlnni, 


Iprdniinit,  manual  am.  &c.    The  rigid.' 

persuaded  tliemffeke*  that  Ibeie  tnulilinnal  e: 
mioniaKofdicineorigln.  Tbe  Fcntatcucb, 
rbev^  wai  written  out  1^  Ibeir  JegidjiDr  bcfon 
death  In  thirteen  co|rte4,  distributed  among 
twelve  tribes  and  Ihe  remaining  one  dcgioiite 

In  Ibe  Sanhedrim,  lo  Ihe  elden  anri  Ibe  re 
Ibepeople.  Tbe  liw  was  repelled  (our  limes  i 
tbe  inlerptetalion  wa<  deliiercd  only  by  enoi 


It  appear)  thai  tbe  T 
certain  Jeu'nh  docion, « 
purpow  by  their  rutlor 


IrCTiWIan^era 
if  the  Scrilif*  and  Mm. 


44 


THE  TALMUD. 


There  are  two  Talmuds :  the  Jenxsalem  and  the 
Babylonian.  Tlie  last  is  the  most  esteemed,  be- 
cause it  i^  the  most  bulky. 

R.  Juda,  the  prince  of  the  rabbins,  committed 
to  >%-ritinK  all  these  traditions,  and  arranged  them 
under  <\x  general  heads,  called  orden  or  classes. 
The  subjects  are  indeed  curious  tor  philosophical 
inquirers,  and  multifarious  as  the  e\'ents  of  ci%'il 
life.  Ever\'  order  is  formed  of  trtatues:  ever>' 
treatue  is  di\'ided  into  chapters^  every  chapter  into 
rrmknas,  which  wcrd  means  mixtures  or  miscella- 
nic\  in  the  form  of  aphorisms.  In  the  first  part  is 
discussed  what  relates  to  seedSf  fruits,  and  trees ;  in 
the  second,  Jeatts;  in  the  third,  u'em«n,  their 
duties,  their  disorders,  tnarrtages,  dnrorces,  con- 
tracts, and  nuptials  ;  in  the  fourth  are  treated  the 
damaa;es  or  losses  sustained  by  beasts  or  men  ;  of 
things  found ;  deposits;  usuries;  rents;  farms; 
partnerships  in  commerce ;  inheritance ;  sales  and 
purchases;  oaths;  -witnesses;  arrests:  idolatry: 
and  here  are  named  those  by  whom  the  oral  law 
was  received  and  orescned.  '  In  the  tifth  part  are 
noticed  sacrifias  and  htly  things:  and  the  MXth 
treats  of  purifications ;  fessels ;  Jurniture  ;  clothes : 
houses :  leprosy  :  baths ;  and  numerous  other  arti- 
cles.    All  this  forms  the  Mishxa. 

The  Gemara,  that  is,  the  complement,  or  perfec- 
tion, contains  the  Dispi'tes  and  the  Opinions  ot 
the  Rabbins  on  the  oral  traditional.  Their  Ust  de- 
cisions. It  must  be  confessed  thai  absurdities  are 
sometimes  elucidated  by  other  ab>urditie> ;  but 
there  are  many  admirable  things  in  thii  vast  re- 
posilor>'.  The' Jews  have  such  veneration  for  this 
compilation,  that  the>"  compare  the  holv  writinjr* 
to  -water ,  and  the  Talmud  to  ri'ine  ;  the  text  of 
Moses  to  ptppcr,  but  the  Tadmud  to  aromatics.  Of 
the  tiaelve  hours  of  which  the  day  is  composed, 
they  tell  us  that  God  employs  nine  to  study  the 
Talmud,  and  only  three  to  read  the  written  law  ! 

St.  Jerome  appears  evidently  to  allude  to  this 
work,  and  notices  its  "  Old  U1vcs'  Tales,"  and  the 
filthiness  of  some  of  its  matters.  Tlie  truth  is,  that 
the  rabbias  resembled  the  Jesuits  and  Ca.suists ;  and 
Sanchez's  work  on  **  Matrimonio"  is  well  known 
to  agitate  matters  with  such  scrupulous  nueties,  as 
to  h«come  the  most  orfensive  thing  possible.  But 
as  among  the  schoolmen  and  the  cxsuists  there 
have  l>ecn  great  men,  the  same  happened  to  these 
gcmaraists.  Maimonides  was  a  pillar  of  light 
among  their  darkne>s.  The  antii|uity  of  th»  work 
is  of  itHrlt  surtkient  to  make  it  very  curious. 

A  *pccimen  of  the  topics  may  be  shown  from 
the  table  and  contents  of  "  Mi'shnic  Titles."  In 
the  order  of  seeds  we  find  the  following  heads, 
whiih  present  no  uninteresting  picture  of  the 
pastoral  and  pious  ceremonies  of  the  ancient 
Jews. 

The  Mishna,  entitled  the  Tom^,  i.e.  of  the  field. 
Tlie  laws  of  gleaning  are  commanded  according  to 
Leviticus  ;  xix.  q,  lo.  Of  the  comer  to  be  left  in 
a  corn-field.  When  the  comer  is  due,  and  when 
not.  Of  the  forgotten  sheaf.  Of  the  ears  of  com 
left  in  gathering.  Of  grapes  left  upon  the  vine. 
Of  olives  left  upon  the  trees.  UTien  and  where 
the  poor  may  lawfully  glean.  What  sheaf,  or 
olives,  or  grapes  may  be  looked  upon  to  be  for- 
gotten, and  what,  not.  Who  are  the  proper  wit- 
nesses concerning  the  poor's  due,  to  exempt  it 
from  tithing,  &c.    The  distinguished  uncircum- 


cised  fruit : — it  is  unlawful  to  eat  of  the  fhiit  of 
any  tree  till  the  fifth  year  of  its  growth :  the  fint 
three  yean  of  its  bearing,  it  is  called  undrcnm- 
ctsed ;'  the  fourth  b  otiered  to  God ;  aod  the  lifth 
may  be  eaten. 

The  Mishna,  entitkd  Heterogeneous  Mixtwret, 
contains  so'eral  curious  horticultural  particulars. 
Of  divisions  between  garden-beds  and  fields,  that 
the  produce  of  the  several  sorts  of  grains  or  seeds 
may  appear  distinct.  Of  the  di^nce  between 
oery  specie*.  Distances  between  vines  planted  in 
com -fields  from  one  another  and  from  the  com; 
between  vines  planted  against  hedges,  walls,  or 
espaliers,  and  anything  sowed  near  them.  Varioos 
cases  relating  to  vineyards  planted  near  any  for> 
bidden  seeds. 

In  their  se\'enth,  or  sabbatical  >'ear,  in  which  the 
produce  of  all  estates  was  given  up  to  the  poor, 
one  of  these  regulations  is  on  the  ditlerent  work 
which  must  not  be  omitted  in  the  sijith  year,  lest 
;i>ccause  the  se%enth  being  demoted  to  tne  poor) 
the  prodiice  should  l>e  unuirly  diminished),  and 
the  public  benefit  arising  frorn  this  law  be  fros- 
tr.iltd.  Of  whatever  is  not  pcrenniad,  and  pro- 
duced that  >  ear  by  the  earth,  no  mone>'  may  be 
made  ;  but  what  is  perennial  may  be  sold. 

On  priest's  tilhe^,  we  have  a  regulation  concern- 
ing catmg  the  fruits  carried  to  the  place  where 
they  are  to  be  separated. 

"The  order  of  •:rotnen  is  veT%-  copious.  A  husband 
is  oblii^ed  to  forbid  his  u  ife  to  keep  a  particular 
man's^  company  belore  two  witnesses.  Of  the 
waters  of  je.ilousy  l)y  which  a  suspected  woman  b 
to  be  tried  by  drinking,  we  find  many  ample  par- 
ticulars. The  ceremonies  of  clothing  the  accused 
woman  at  her  trial.  Pregnant  women,  or  who 
suckle,  are  not  obliged  to'  drink ;  for  the  rabbins 
seem  to  be  well  convinced  of  the  eflects  of  the 
imagination.  Of  their  divorces  many  are  the  laws; 
and  care  is  taken  to  particuhrise  bilb  of  divorces 
\iTittcn  by  men  in  delirium  or  dangerously  ill. 
One  party  of  the  rabbins  will  not  allow  of  any  di- 
vorce, unless  something  light  was  found  in  the 
woman's  character,  while  another  (the  Pharisees) 
allow  divorces  even  when  a  woman  has  only  been 
so  unfortunate  as  to  sulier  her  husband's  soup  to 
be  bumt ! 

In  the  order  of  damages,  containing  nilcs  how 
to  tax  the  damages  done  by  man  or  beast,  or  other 
casualties,  their  distinctions  are  as  nice  as  their 
cases  arc  numerous.  What  beasts  are  innoeent 
and  what  convict.  By  the  one  they  mean  crea- 
tures not  natunUly  used  to  do  miv.hicf  in  any  par- 
ticular way  ;  and  by  the  other,  those  that  natu- 
rally, or  by  a  vicious  habit,  are  mischievous  that 
way.  The  tooth  of  a  beast  is  convict  when  it  is 
proved  to  eat  its  usual  food,  the  propert>'  of 
another  man  ;  and  full  restiturion  must  be  made ; 
but  it  a  beast  that  is  used  to  eat  fruits  and  herbs 
gnaws  clothes  or  damages  tools,  which  are  not  its 
Usual  food,  the  owner  of  the  beast  shall  pay  but 
half  the  damage  when  committed  on  the  propert)* 
of  the  injureu  pcrv)n  ;  but  if  the  injury  is  com- 
mitted on  the  propcrt>'  of  the  person  who  does  the 
damage,  he  is  free,  because  the  beast  gnawed  what 
was  not  its  usual  food.  As  thus :  if  the  beast  of 
A.  gnaws  or  tears  the  clothes  of  B.  in  B.>  house  or 
grounds,  A.  shall  pay  half  the  damages  ;'but  if  B.'s 
clothes  arc  injured  in  A*s  grounds  by  A's  beast,  A. 

■■'■■''  ■  ■  ■  ■    ■'  w# 


THE  TALUVD. 


I  INC.  fat  vhit  hi<l  B.  to  do  >o  put  hti  dotha  In 
i.'igTOUBiUf    Thcf  make  lucli  lUblilE  diiHnc- 


linwi  imc.  thi7  were  often  rtiUculDui.    No  bust 

wioiiebt  produce  of  the  gn>nnd|.  till  they  hid 

waibL-d  Ihcit  handi.    The  Riwn  thn  rave  wu 
Ibii.    In  limejof  peneioltonthey  iue<rto  hide 
<hc«  acred  book!  a,  >eci«  pl»<3.  .nd  good  men 

»»  dT„  lt»l  he  h«l  dOH  mt^hlcf  thT.  .ucc«. 
dre^K  butlf  hem'-ooir  IhoKncinu)  iTicki 

may  be  eomlrl  DfKDiii^  on  ox  aod  nM  a  mjn.  or 

would  liy  them  ouL  of  the  wiy  when  they  h;al 

nf  gotina  >  man  in.l  not  in  on  ;  luv;  of  pjring  on 
the  Hhhath,  and  not  on  ■  vnitinR  day.    TlKir 

roU.  of  the  law  m^t  be  cniwed  by  raw.    The 
hindi  then  ihai  touched  iIkk  book'  when  IHej 

look  them  rmt  of  Ihe  plua  whcie  they  had  laid 

fmAi  of  Ihc  dirifi  of  the  he»l  Ihiil  did  the  ii>- 

juiy;  but  thualteinpl  evidently  led  Ibem  lo  dii- 

llBclioni  much  loo  lublik  >nd  obmire.    Thui 

washed.  OnthalarcaiintihevmadeihiiageiieTil 

•ome  nbbiiH  uy  thit  the  mominE  pnyer  of  Ibe 
J*™«,ni-Kr«d  M  thetimea^randili- 

rule,  Ihal  if  any  pan  of  the  BiNi  (except  EtiUiiaaa, 

becauie  lhal  nceHenl   book  their  lugacily  ac- 
counled  leu  holv  than  the  nsit),  of  their  phytac- 

gouh  Uw  from  whiii ,  but  anxbet.  moti  maul- 

enn,  imiiti  it  may  Ik  when  ve  caa  dluingulib 
ilH  from  gtHi  I  w^ich  hti«  colmn  uc  »  nm 

tCTici,  or  the  mingi  of  ibeii  phvlacieria,  wcte 

touched  by  one  who  had  a  right  to  eat  the  eruma. 

iWo»tDie(|uirejijlinnBerUKht.  wlththeume 

An^&cforthit  .ui.mi'u'^u.^lling  f^r  whiS 
the  Phaiucei  and  the  later  Kabbina  have  been  h 

thdr  law  iBpecting  not  tnui'liing  lire  on  tlM%ab- 

sajss.'s.sts.ffisss 

juMly  rcpiDbalcd. 
They  were  iteurdly  minutein  the  literal  obserr- 

youno  childnm  by  lamplight,  but  he  ghall 
not  lead  ninHelf.  liw  imnhter  h  fbrliiildeti 
to  riul  by  limpli^l,  kit  be  abmild  tilm  hb 
lamp  1  but  he  may  dlrert  the  childrvn  wfaeie  IbCf 
■hould  nad.  hecauv  that  h  quickie  dDBc,  aiul 
there  would  he  no  danger  of  his  thmmliig  fain 
lamp  In  (heir  iimence,  or  lutlcilng  any  of  Iheni 

may  anpldcr  «a  minute  and  frh^cilon',  ibow  a 
greil  Intimacy  with  the  human  heart,  and  a  ipirit 
of  pmfOund  obienatlon  whiib  had  bccu  eapable 


nnoeent  heat  only  r 


"ihalf 


Belabour;  or  falling  <lowo, 

bhng  on  him  incun  harm ;  how  i 

anolber*}  In  keeping,  and  Rmor 

1.  e.  that  he  had  no  design  lo  brv? 


tbcMIAna 


:n  beg.    The  tcin- 
I  ha»  been  obiened 


or  Tyc'bread,  the 


|[ain,  Che  Pnari^teea  and  the 


e  holy  writii^  with  their  hands.    The  doccon 


be  easy  enough  ._  _ 

andahci^ila  hanland  unrelenlingaa  poBible  to 
all  otben.    They  quibbled,  and  diuoli'ed  IheiF 


Haltbew  »v.  and  Mailt  vii.lor 

flai^antly  vlolaling  tbe  tifth  cDDimaDdnunt,  by 
allowliig  the  vuw  oi  a  ion,perhapiinadeln  hiatr 
anger,  in  full  force,  when  be  had  mini  ibat  hii 
father  ihoiild  never  Ik  the  better  for  him,  or  any- 
thing he  had,  and  by  which  an  indigent  lather 
inljhtbe  nidered  taataTrti.    There  b  an  cxprcti 

fVuv.    TheieadermayheamuKd'bythcotoiy.— 
'   arawthattiii/aMiTiiui'.ln>l^«Sl 
,  allerwarda  znnde  a  weddliH^ 
B.  and  wnbc*  bi«  father  AouM 


fryAtof. 


bythatlhlidpcnan  with  tbe  other  com 
he  at  linl  deigned.  Thh  6M  penon  i 
If  Ihoe  things  yon  thus  bare  i^ren  w 
I  will  dedicaie  Ibem  lo  nod,  audtbcn  I 


The  son  leplkd 
t  i-on  shouH  eo 


adopted  when  the  learned  of  ftome  lou^l 
■uidc  tbcm  to  conform  to  Ihcir  Idolatry. 


RABBIXfCAL  STOJtJES. 


g  (or  tbc  kins,  ud 


ladc  ■mnKr.-irm 

of  «h)Lh  the  wul  . 

bat-v  tIrMTOTcU  the  ohjCLt  ol  tliLir  vorflU|> ; 


at  they  AlH)  uomiip  the 

,  Kiiil  ibc  Rniiuii>,  vh 

t  IhiK  ibiii^  whi  h  ihc  •« 


bnt  they  iM  uoiihip  tbc  HID  anil  mean.  <d«>  uul  kipcdtohim  iDdinU;  <  Anivcd  it  tshbi'i  bouic, 
IdaiHTli;  ind  then  he  miut  liave  itnltninl  hit  bcbAdldifaii  molherOi^iFinslng.  PciKiiiiw 
wniUI  iDT  rhe  uke  ol  thtie  dcluikd  inn.    Bui   the  Iim'Utc,  die  >iui.-bed  up  her  >)Kaniii|MiilMcl 


itcuheJ  Ibe   he  tell 


Abhhai  pronDunoed  the  mapi^al  name,  wbii-h  the 
Talinuili-n  hequeniLv  make  lue  ol,  and  it  camed 
hoi-ei  belwiicn  eaRb  and  beaten,  w  that 

"    "    ■   al  k'Dglh  unite  asiii 


pli.'dihLtlhcin 
"awle  tlKRi  m 


lcnt%    Whiiia' female  dL-vilmiRalttivi  in  v'lilinit  lor  IB 
1UI  h  DTiHL'iue,   KDTjr.    It  ii  clKciiiiMe,  ihu  Ibe  Anbii 

Lh  aCL'fimpiDi- ,  demiibe  1^  h  a  ma^cian. 


lUenticn.  Ihii  «in  InarBlciuly  ijtdi  hut  Ihtv  jRimrkilile  iimhe 
injVc  ninenble  it«k  Hhcn  Ibi^  pieleod  la  gin:  id  Solomon,  the  1 
nil  -tl  -al  in'eipRlatiom  ta  ft  tKtattac.  himwU  o(  tlie  dn 


rjlhnU;^  though  Ibcy  Ki 


--, ,,  -_,,  — be  neat  Lord  Bacon   Kjd^inti^ — __,-——     , -_, 

I  f<(imecl'iheseiBveniinB>,tbeyiRiubl"KivecurtaHty  or  Nolomrn  induced  him  tocofnmii  thii 
i  inter  LtUi  ^^  the  fireside :"  aod  a  happj  («t   foil)'.    [iMantIr  Atchmedai  iwallovcd 


cdbH  chain.    Tbcimpcn 


nilhineoit: 


.nucT,  rahliUinl  in  i«a  lar^  i  the  unb,  be 

"  Jud^ivn  <bscoreTed|"  a  pod-  j  Jeimuea  from 

hiih  Ibe  icepc  Wfl  lotiduuk   that  no  roc  knew  aiiilhine< 

•.  medal  then  a^med  Ibe  bk' 

iuUkh  iitbe  mvaid  cl 

lis  «>>.  bii  Kaikin«4tal< 


ion  (Dur   hundivd 
^ri.«ely 


land  w.ii  ilnvn  by  the  deiil.    The  ki 

HK^of  a  tor.  I>ai  idilbchaiKEd  an  arrow  one  iihblsiia>>.biiKj 
,  liut  miicd  hii  aim.    He  pumied   Ibeiiina  i^  hit  nfcged 

Tneintolbelandct  tbePhiJiitinci.  l^bi,  |  bcicginit  from  door  to ' 
Hhct  u  Culiath.  In«uiilir  recosniKd  the  '"■ '"- ' 

him  ubn  bad  ilain  that  glanl.    He  boDiid 


RABBISICAL  STORIES. 


■  noBgc  to  Uke  notice  o[  hi 
dnlb  m  like  Che  Ictc  of  coc 

Iiuipted  Ihcm  thai  hn  maj 
ipperi,  but  bfced  them  14 1 
Uibdcn  by  the  Lnr.    He  had  i 


guarded  bv  the  viliu 
The^  frequentt)'  di; 


If  gro«Q  a^ihi  (bal  It 
Ihou  wl.heB."  V"~ 
Ki>  ik-lghbDur.  the)' 


r,  Abnh 


S2 

Wbum 


the  juil^  an 


unded  me  the  Cee  that 

itHnglhee."  TlM 
ftd  on  whicrb  they 

tp  i  lad  if  he  wai  ahertcr  tban 


u  of  KJn  moci 


iltf    Bleautieplied.- 
-  -'■-  '--  -hai  li  dta  .M  -..^ 
opic  of  thi9  town  hj 

lofijE  for  il,  they  t 

•■— cr  man  Hw  he 

hcMl  and  loi 

wag  iiifCtih^d  t}>e  donoi 

■  beggar  died  from  hungi 

[ic  of  the  Cimoiu  deciuo 


on  city  ind  aai  them  in. — The  waJli 

SIT  them  a  bowi  fvX 
lent  ChUi  a  IV^t  in 

ler  li^  than  ji 


jceneroiuly  contented  to  pay  aa  if  the  chevi  can- 

:oopen  andeuminethechcsti  And 
4l  was  opened^  tiial  great 


■vi.Lenf^oneofthi 
rt   fly   .'way   ii'tli 


.-et  In  height.    But  of  ' 


tie  gnmnd,  i1a- 


the  alljjhtot  mtige  < 
iLots  out  the  nin.      An  egy  Irom  another  fi 


loia^iDlnit  the  water  wa>  not  deep,  were  haUeni;:,i 
to  (uthe,  when  a  voice  fnim  hciren  tald.—"  Stcji 
not  in  there,  Ibr  icven  yean  ago  there  a  carpenier 
dropped  hii  *K,  and  it  balh  not  yet  reached  the 

The  foUon'in;  paBBwe  c^Micemlnic  fit  geeie  i% 
peilcclly  !■  the  ilcle  of  Umk  rabbini.    "  A  rihtnn 

Then  laid  I  to  then.  Shall  we  haee  purt  of  you  in 
the  other  world  when  the  Meuiih  ihaU  iwne  > 
And  one  of  Ihem  lifted  up  a  wing,  and  another  a 
lex.  to  nullify  these  parli  we  ihnulil  have.  We 
iMinLd  otherwise  have  had  all  paru  of  there  ecete ; 
but  we  Ivacbna  >haU  be  called  to  an  aicount 
touchlnit  Ukk  (at  geeie.  becauK  Iheir  ainlclingi 
are  owing  lo  ui^  It  n  OUT  inlnoltld  that  have 
■■-'•yed  tlie  coming  of  t"-  ■-— -■■  — ■  ■> — 
e  suffer  peailyli/cci....  _.    ..._..  .. 

,h  Cell  In  the  wikler- 


fat,  which  dajlyanil  lUily 


_..„  ~  -.wT*  brought  urith  him  i 

cuuom^houK  the  officers  exacted  tfat 

•ham  wnuM  have  reacHly  paid,  bu' 

™u(dn-p'  open  ihecheii.  Tbeyfiisi   garlic,  andoniona,  and  teelu 

K  duty  lor  clotho,  which  Abraham  pBgyplian   iwu  which   tb< 


the  BIbkthatlhetuleofit  wa>"aiawaferinadc 
with  honey,"  to  hate  nlied  iheir  ftincy  to  in  pllrii. 
They  declare  it  wai"Bkeoll  to  children,  honey  to 
old  men,  and  cakes  lo  middle  age."  It  had  every 
kiiul  of  lasle  except  that  of  cncumben,  nrloiia, 
-,  and  onions,  and  tivks,  lor  ihetf  woe  thoie 


^Ua 


48 


ON  THE  CUSTOM  OF  SALUTING  AFTER  SNEEZING, 


Tcgretted  to  have  lost.    This  mAnna  had,  however, 
the  quality  to  accommodate  itself  to  the  palate  of 
those  who  did  not  murmur  in  the  wilderness  j  and  ' 
to  these  it  became  hsh,  flesh,  or  fowl. 

The  rabbins  never  advance  an  absurdity  without 
cuotinf;  a  text  in  scripture ;  and  to  substantiate 
this  fact  thev  quote  Deut.  ii.  7.  where  it  is  said, 
"  Through  tliis  great  wilderness,  these  forty  years 
the  Lord  thy  God  hath  been  with  thee,  and  thou 
hast  lacked  nothing  f"  8t.  Austin  repeats  this  ex- 
planation of  the  rabbins  that  the  faithful  found  in  this 
manna  the  taste  of  their  favourite  food  1  However, 
the  Israelites  could  not  have  found  all  these  bene- 
hts  as  the  rabbins  tell  us,  for  in  Numt>ers  xi.  6. 
they  exclaim,  "There  is  nothing  at  alt  besides  this 
manna  before  our  eves !"  They  had  just  said 
that  thev  rememlHrrcd  the  melons,  cucuml)ers,&c. 
which  they  had  eaten  of  so  freely  in  Egypt.  One 
of  the  hyperboles  of  the  rabbins  is,  that  the  manna 
fell  in  such  mountains  that  the  kings  of  the  east 
and  the  west  beheld  them  ;  which  they  found  in  a 
passage  in  the  23rd  Psalm  :  "  Thou  preparest  a  table 
iMrfore  me  in  the  presence  of  mine  enemies!" 
These  may  5er\'e  as  specimens  of  the  forced  inter- 
pretations on  which  their  uprotcsque  fables  are 
founded. 

Their  detestation  of  Titus,  their  great  conqueror, 
appears  by  the  following  wild  indention. — After 
having  narrated  certain  things  too  shameful  to 
read,  of  a  prince  whom  Josephus  describes  in  far 
diticrent  colours,  they  tell  us  that  on  sea  Titus 
tauntingly  obser\  cd  in  a  great  tform  that  the  God 
of  the  Jews  wxs  only  powerful  on  the  water,  and 
that  therefore  he  had  succeeded  in  drownmg 
Pharaoh  and  Sisera.  "  Had  he  been  strong,  he 
would  have  waged  war  with  me  in  Jerusalem." 
On  uttering  thi»  blasphemv,  a  voice  from  heaven 
said,  "  Wii^ked  man  !  I  have  a  little  creature  in 
the  world  which  shall  wage  war  with  thee !" 
When  Titus  landed,  a  gnat  entered  his  nostrils,  and 
for  seven  years  together  made  holes  in  his  brains. 
When  his  skull  was  opened,  the  gnat  was  found  to 
l>e  as  large  as  a  pigeon  :  the  mouUi  of  the  gnat  was 
of  copper,  and  the  claws  of  iron. 

That,  however,  there  are  some  beautiful  inven- 
tions in  the  T.ilmud,  I  refer  to  the  storj-  of  *'  So- 
lomon and  Sheba,"  in  the  present  collections. 


ON  THE  CUSTOM  OF  SALUTING  AFTER 
SNEEZING. 

It  is  probable  that  this  custom,  so  univcrs.illy 
prevalent,  originated  in  some  ancient  supersti- 
tion ;  it  seem»  to  have  excited  inquir)'  among  all 
nations. 

Some  Catholics,  »a)-n  Father  Fc\-joo,  have  at- 
tributed the  oiigin  of  this  custom  to  fhe  ordinance 
of  a  pope.  Saint  Gregorv- — who  is  said  to  have 
instituted  a  short  benediction  to  be  used  on  such 
occasions,  at  a  time  when,  during  a  pestilence,  the 
crisis  was  attended  by  truexingf  and  iu  most  cases 
followed  by  death. 

But  the  rabbins,  who  have  a  story  for  e\'er>'- 
thing,  »ay,  that  before  Jacob  men  never  snee/ed 
but  once,  and  then  immediately  ditd :  they  assure 
us  that  that  patriarch  was  the  first  who  died  by 
natural  diacase,  before  him  all  men  died  by  ancez- 


ing ;  the  memory  of  which  was  ordered  to  be 
preserved  In  all  nations  by  a  command  of  tverf 
prince  to  his  subjects  to  employ  some  salatny 
exclamation  after  the  act  of  sneezing.  But  titcK 
are  Talmudical  dreams,  and  only  senre  to  prore 
that  so  familiar  a  custom  has  always  exdtcd 
inquiry. 

Even  Aristotle  has  delivered  some  considerablfe 
nonsense  on  this  custom  ;  he  says  it  is  an  hcNBOor* 
able  acknowledgment  of  the  seat  of  g^xid  seue 
and  genius — tlie  nead — ^to  distinguish  it  from  two 
other  otfensive  eruptions  of  air,  which  are  never  ac- 
companied by  any  l>enediction  from  the  bj'standen. 
The  custom  at  all  events  existed  long  prior  to  Fope 
Gregory.  The  lover  in  Apulcius,  Gyton  in  Petro- 
nius,  and  allusions  to  it  in  Pliny,  prove  its  anti- 
quity; and  a  memoir  of  the  French  Academy 
notices  the  practice  in  the  New  Wwld  on  tM 
tirst  discovery  of  America.  Everywhere  man  b 
saluted  for  sneezing. 

An  amusing  account  of  the  ceremonies  wUch 
attend  the  sneeting  of  a  king  of  Monomotapa 
shows  what  a  narinnal  concern  may  lie  the  sneeze 
of  despotism. — Those  who  are  near  his  penon, 
when  this  happens,  salute  him  in  so  loud  a  tone 
that  persons  in  the  antechamber  bear  it,  and  j<HB 
in  the  acclamation ;  in  the  adjoining  apartments 
they  do  the  same,  till  the  noise  reaches  me  street, 
anu  becomes  propagated  throughout  the  city ;  so 
that  at  each  sneeze  of  his  majeity,  results  a  most 
horrid  cr}-  from  the  salutations  of  many  thousands 
of  his  vassals. 

When  the  king  of  Sennaar  sneezes,  his  conrtien 
immediately  turn  their  backs  on  him,  and  give  a 
loud  slap  on  their  right  thigh. 

With  the  ancients  sneezing  was  ominous ;  from 
the  right  it  was  considered  auspicious ;  and  Pin* 
tarch,  in  his  lite  of  Themistocles,  sax's,  that  before 
a  naval  battle  it  was  a  sign  of  conquest !  Catullus, 
in  his  pleajking  poem  of  Acme  and  Septimus,  makes 
this  action  from  the  deity  of  Love  from  the  kft 
the  source  of  his  fiction.  The  passage  has  been 
elegantly  versified  by  a  poetical  friend,  who  tinds 
autliori^  that  the  gods  sneezing  on  the  right  in 
heaven  is  supposed  to  come  to  us  on  earth  on  the 

Cupid  sneexing  in  his  flight 
Once  was  heard  upon  the  right 
Boding  woe  to  lovers  true ; 
But  now  upon  the  left  he  Hew, 
And  with  .sporting  sneexe  divine. 
Gave  to  joy  the  sacred  sign. 
Acme  bent  her  loveh  face. 
Flush 'd  >%ith  rapture's  rosy  grace. 
And  those  eyes  that  swam  in  bli<is, 
Prest  with  many  a  breathing  kis» ; 
Breathing,  muimuring,  soft,  and  low. 
Thus  might  life  for  ever  flow  ! 
**  Love  of  my  life,  and  life  of  love  1 
Cupid  rules  our  fates  above, 
E\  er  let  us  vow  to  join 
In  homage  at  his  happy  shrine." 
Cupid  heard  the  lov  ers'  true. 
Again  upon  the  left  he  flew. 
And  with  sportive  sneexe  dinne, 
Renew'd  of  joy  the  sacred  sign  ! 


■i  * 


ji         SOBlEMElf  TCBSED  CRITICS.— LITERABT  ntPOSTUBES.               | 

on  1  Uld  concluded  by  tiling,  *™  Gnlni-I  tm 

Grotiui.     r*  nufou  lUr  Gilnu  f— "  Wbil  1  in 

Whil  in  euto^um  1     Tlitt  Mnctdnte  tKin),  how- 

SoHi  lulhon  have  pnciinl  ungolar  ioipoil- 

ertr.  ipDcij-jihil  i  for  wc  hirt  i  nuriHvc  of  bil 

tioM  OD  the  public.    Vitillai.  the  French  biinr. 

diilb  hv  IM  (IcrgjTn""  hinHclf.     On  Ike  dotb  d 

rian,  ni}D>ed  for  »me  lime  a  gieil  ttpulation  ia 

Graliui  1  .Kiny  o(  Uit.  r»URl  hv  ditRrml  puUo, 

wrrc  ipiud  cooctming  hii  m.nntl  0(  d)1ng. 

bul  when  Ibe>'  became  more  known.  Ihe  icbolan 

of  othei  countriei  dnitoved  the  repuution  which 

he  had  nnjuitly  tcquir^.    "  Hi.  conlinuil  pm- 

hiifiiT  givQiultleir  idu  of  iht  cntni  of  ihe 

fetooM  ot  linceniy  nnjudiced  many  in  bit  brour. 

diild  KithosireipiBg  uy  idrinugc  rrom  bit  glut 

into  the  inmort  ntaia  of  tbc  catNnet ;  but  the 

.inced  thai  ihi  hiiiaricil  inecdolet  which  vmuti 

pn<   off  for   authentic    ftctt  hid   no    foundation. 

NOBLBMBN  TVRNHD  CHTDCS. 

being   wholly   hi.  o-n  Invention,  ^tboo^  he 

uu  monali  wfaa  ur  ncnsiuRd  to  undergo  ihc 

(cd  manuKript;  but  he  hjl  a  fertile 'poWical 

bid  1  tttriir  nude  bj-  Ibt  gmt  MuAul  -/v*. 

wfacn  il  wu  finahHl  umr  to  iniptTt  it ;  uid  blHog 

now  on  the  litt.  ifi™  on  ihr  umi,  the  koeti,  ths 

lie.,    flumet-i  book  agaiiui  VaiiUa.  ii  a  cuiioui 

form  of  tht  leg,  ud  u  length  on  ihe  foot  iBel! 

Oemelli  Ciireri,  a  Ncapolilan  gcntlemaa.  IB 

ilK  ttirae  being  of  mch  pciietl  buut;-,  ht  fcund 

many  y«r.  never  i)iiitti:d  hi)  chimber ;  confined 

hiimelf  u  1  iMi  to  diipliy  hii  powen  or  critinitn 

only  by  l.™biog  hi.  prue.    But  only  to  ptj« 
might  ippeu  u  3  then  hid  been  in  obluvnoi  in 

w'iih  writing  1  r^igi  .M.rd  i»i  WirUi  giving 

Itac  keenns  of  bi>  criiiciKn.     He  tnmbledio  nod 

u  if  he  bad  Kiily  <i^lted  Ibcm  :  and  hi>  VDlumci 

no«^  il  might,  he  thoughl,  be  «mcib>ne  more 
Grecim,    ,«iixi'l»  differed  fiom  hit  grace,  bui  he 
Bid  he  wculJ  itiempi  lo  grmtif.  Ri»  tate.    He 

nciet  ttitclled  ten  Icaguci  from  ruH  io  hi)  life  i 

though  he  appcan.  bj-  hi.  wriUngt,  lo  be  vtiy 

took  up  bil  chijci,  ind  conceilcd  lome  maibic 

timiliir-ilhthimK^enetj'. 

iSiu'y''kt  fall'KfSTof  \l^i^n  be  he1d"«n' 

UambergeVi  travel,  mere  recenilv  made  a  gre« 

ceiled.     The    cudiul    obwning  ii  »   it  tiii 

proieii  to  be  the  ideal  lovaget  of  >  member  of  the 

Ocnnan  Ctul-^Ireel,  iboul  hii  oun  gami  •    Too 

cljimed— "  Ah.  Wiigd.  .'  )ou   blTe  now  given   an 

o(  greal  lulhonty  were  not  writien  bv  Ihe  pre- 

Iliad  to  Lord  Halilu,  the  noble  Clitic  did  no 

fet^igihoTt. 

ventnn  lo  be  dliHIiltied  uith  u  pcrfccl  a  com 

poHtion  :  but.  like  Ok  cudlnU,  Ihit  puugC'  "^ 

the  broken  cant  o('  bii  crttlcmrt.    The  honeit 

immcnte  regioDi  with  Heeling  pace,  bai-e  ginn 

Ihe  pun  at"^!?!!  bii  lonbbip  he<4UHeS"«^ 

n>  long  accounl)  o(  vjriou.  counlriea  ind  pec^e ; 

IboKwiib  which  he  vu  man  uiiihed.    Aihece 

)urd  Itsditioni  of  the  ignorant  nilgai,  (rem  whom 

inmtd  home  with  Sir  temuei  Girth  be  revelled 

oniv  they  could  hare   nceired  ihnte   relaiioni 

to  h.m  the  aniietY  of  hl>  mind.    ■■Oh,"  nplied 

ing  credulitj-,-- 

«,th  hi»  Lotd.bip  a.   myielfi    he  mun  oilici* 

Some  aulhon  hai-e  pracUitil  die  lingular  impfr 

Ai  ,our  next  .•«  read  lo  blm  IhoK  very  pa.- 

tllion  o(  inncuucinE  a  vaneiy  of  lillet  of  workt  u 

if  prep.'hv  for  the  pre».  bill  of  which  nmbini 

recalkcted  bil  critlciHU ;  and  ru  wairaat  you  o 

bui  the  titlet  hive  been  -liOen. 

done  a  hundred  timet  mvtelf."    P-n  nude  uae 

of  thi,  nraiagem  i  it  took,  like  Ibe  matble.duit  ol 

on  the  biuory  of  Prance  mighl  not  be  ttopped! 

infill  i  and  my  lord,  like  the  cudinal.  exclaimed 

When  he  died,  hu  hiiinrical  labour,  did  not  ra- 

ceed  lix  ^igei ' 

)tamD  u  Vuillu.    He  wrote  wilh  great  fKilin, 
and  faunger  gnKtaUy  quickened  tw  pen.     Se 

LITERARY  IMPOSTURES.                                        ,i 

ton'a  Poema,  p.  140,  for  wme  curioui  obiervm- 

tioDi,  and  aome  (aniaf  literary  impoitore. 

BnsUib  biRoi>'  not  to  he  tbuod  etKwhere;  lod 
pcllupi  ought  not  la  hlTE   been   Ihcre  if  Ilulh 
hid  been  coiuulfsl.    Nil  great  aim  vru  tiwivi 

of  one  Joeph  Vella,  who.  in   1J91,  wai  an  ad- 

ventuKr  in  Sicily,  and  ptcleoded  thai  he  p»- 

ID  mikc  I  bool: ,  he  i-ciii  ba  vqiumn  with  Ji- 

AraWc  i^'hine^ved'thiTlitetat,  SL^m.  h^ 

.pplia  »iL  .he  fepmee.  be  coUected  (ron.  oiU 

■aid,  from  a  Frenchman  who  bad  puitoined  it 

from  a  ihelf  in  St.  Sophia'a  church  at  Conuao- 

Such  kmaio  abound;  the  nu^enui  "TeMa- 
RienD  PeJl£]un"  of  Colbcn,  Haiarinc,  and  other 

«noide.    Aamany  of  Ihe  Greek  and  Roman  cl>>ic< 

hate  been  tranilaUd  by  the  Arabiani,  and  many 

Dutch   pfCD,  u  an:   many  jmlended    political 

boob  J  and  Lady  Spencer,  then  in  Italy,  oifered 

Latin  aulbora,  man)'  were  taken   from    French 

way  of  ipecimen,  to  edit  an  Italian  tnnHation  of 

The  Invcli  wtiHen  in  Hebrew,  or  ftabbi  Ben- 

Ihe liirieth  book,  but  tliai  book  took  up  no  more 

jamin  of  Tudela.  of  which  we  hive  i  curiokii 

than  one  octavo   page !      A    protnKir  of  Orienlal 

bwulaljon,  are.  I  believe,  apocii'phil.     He  de- 

•cribei  a  j«rney,  which  if  evVTlie  took,  it  muit 

have  been  with  hi)  nighlcali  ™  i  being  a  perfect 

thing  more  than  the  epitome  of  Honu.    He  alao 

dream!    11  inaid  that  lo inspirit  and  give  import- 
ance lohii  nation,  he  pmended  thai  lie  had  tra- 

picked  up  in  the  abbey  of  SI.  Maitin.  containing 
the  ancient  hiatoiv  of  iicily.  in  the  Arabic  perioS 

tkm.  pUca  which  he  doe»  oat  appeat  ever  to  have 

■een.  and  Ihc  diflercnl  people  he  deiciiba  no  one 

Africa,  from  the  lirM  landing  of  the  Ambiani  in 

learned  1  paiticnlatly  to  thoae  who  in  their  leal 

and  pention) '.    It  is  true  he  ibowed  Arabic  ma.. 
which,   however,  did  not  contain  a  lyllable  of 

that  the  i^E^of  Eiekiel.  with  the  libraiy  of  the 

(im  and  lecand  templea,  wen  u  be  Ken  in  hi) 

where.    The  King  of  Naples  fumiihcd  him  with 

Wesaellua  of  Croningen,  and  many  other  literati, 

quarto  were  at  length  publiihed  !    Vclla  tiad  the 

tomb  and  eiamine  the   libtarr,  but  the   fairy 

which  enlirelv  related  to  KahniKt.  to  matten  re- 

lative to  Sicily  i  be  bestowed  lewral  weeka'  labour 

.0  diatieure  the  whole,  altering  page  lor  page^ 

the  Mcreii  palace  uodcr  Alexaodcc  VI.    He  pre- 
tended be  Gad  diKovered  the  genuine  work,  of 

nnmberlesa  dots,  Rrokci.  and  Houiishei,  id  Ibat 

the  leainlng  of  Vella.  who  could  tranilaK  wbat 

of  which  oohr  (raamenti  in  remaining.    He  pub- 

haring  any  uaa.  to  produce,  though  be  declared 

Ihou^tTia  Jenamn^mghl  to  )^U  been  t^rea^ 
which  some  thought  wia  not  »  bad  neither.    It 

iH  the  author  died  before  he  made  up  hi.  mind  to 

was  at  length  diuoiered  by  hii  blunders,  &c.  thai 
the  whole  wa,  a  forger,- :  Xugh  i.  h«l  iow  beeo 

|oy  waa  diduaed  among  the  learned.— Suipic ion 

Europe,     u-taen  ihii  hi.  waa  eiammed  by  an 

himielf  wat  impotedon,  rather  itiin  that  he  wai 

hi.loiy  of  *faft.i»i  an4  hu  Iiml,.     Vella  waa 

71k  Spanish  antiquai)',  Medina  Conde,  in  order 

■ibly  all  may  noi  be  fictiiioui.    It  hai  been'  laid 

buried  in  the  ground,  where  be  knew  they  would 

dred'ywi  to  the'retenleen  booki  of   Anniua, 

eiiWa  in  the  Bibliolhique  Colbertine,  .n  which 

shortly  be  dug  up.    Upon  their  being  found,  be 
publi^ied  engraving.  (J  them,  and  gave  eipl.na- 

Anniui  would  never  point  out  the  uurcei  ol  hia. 

impoaluic.    1  refer  the  reader  to  T>TwhitI's  Vin- 

dkuicm  of  hii  Appendix  (o  Kowley')  or  Chatier- 

5» 


CARDINAL  RICHELIEU, 


copper  tiracclet  of  Fatimx,  which  Medina  proved 
t)y  ttic  Aratiic  ii»i.ripti<m  and  many  certificates  to 
be  Krfiiiine,  and  fountl  ainon^  the  mint  of  the 
Alh.iinbr.i,  with  other  trcuanres  of  its  la»t  king, 
wlu)  h;til  hid  them  there  in  hope  of  lietter  day's. 
'V\\w  titnoim  l>ra(c]et  turned  out  afterwards  to  be 
thr  work  of  Mrdina's  own  hand,  made  out  of  an 
f>ld  brans  canillr^tirl;  t 

f»'  i/ri^e  F-wUinanar.ar.  to  whose  labours  we  owe 
mui'h  ot  the  urc.tt  rnivcrsal  History,  exceeded  in 
p<i'.vfrs  of  deception  any  ot  the  great  impostors  of 
le.iriiiii;:.  Hih  InI.iihI  of  Formosa  was  an  illuMon 
eiiiini-i.tly  UiUl,  and  maintained  with  as  much 
t'.ltuty  IS  erudiiioii ;  and  great  mu^t  have  been 
tli.it  i-rii'iition  wliii:h  could  form  a  pretended  Ian- 
gii.i'^e  and  its  ^r.imm.ir,  and  fertile  the  genius 
wiiiib  could  imcnt  the  hittory  of  an  unknown 
peopli.' :  It  IS  saiii  that  tlie  deception  was  only 
s.itistariorily  ascertained  by  his  own  penitential 
(onfi-ssion;  he  had  .detied  and  bariled  the  most 
Iciriicd.  'Hie  literary  impostor  Lauder  had  much 
more  aud.icity  than  ini^enuity,  and  he  died  con- 
teninrd  by  all  the  world.  Ireland's  Shakespeare 
icr\ed  to  show  that  commentators  are  not  blessed, 
net:ess,irily,  with  an  interior  and  unerring  tact, 
ffciiiu)  and  learning  are  ill  directed  in  forming 
literary  impr>sitions,  but  at  least  they  must  l>c 
distiiii;wished  from  the  fabrications  of  ordinary 
impostors. 

A  singular  forgery  was  practi>ed  on  Captain 
Wilford  by  a  Icaimed  Hindu,  who,  to  ingratiate 
himself  and  his  studies  with  the  too  zealous  and 
pious  European,  contrived,  among  other  attempts, 
to  gi%'e  the  history  of  Noah  and  his  three  soas,  in 
his  "  Purana,"  under  the  designation  of  Satyavrata. 
Captain  Wilford  having  rtad  the  passage,  tran- 
Kcrilied  it  for  Sir  William  Jones,  who  translated  it 
as  a  curious  extract ;  the  whole  w;ls  an  interpola- 
tion by  tlie  dexterous  introduction  of  a  forged 
sheet,  discoloured  and  prepared  for  the  purpOM*  of 
deception,  and  whirh,  having  ser>'cd  his  puqiosc 
for  the  moment,  w.ls  afterA^ards  withdrawn.  As 
l>ooks  in  India  are  not  boun<l,  it  is  not  diflicult  to 
introduce  loose  leaves.  To  confirm  his  various 
impositions,  this  learned  forger  had  the  patience 
to  write  two  voluminous  sections,  in  which  he 
conneded  all  the  legends  together  in  the  stjle  of 
the  PutuThit,  consisting  of  1 2,000  lines.  When 
Captain  Willord  resolved  to  collate  the  manuscript 
with  others,  the  learned  Hindu  began  to  disfigure 
his  own  manuscript,  the  captain's,  and  those  of 
the  college,  by  erasing  the  name  of  the  countrv 
and  sulMltuting  that  of  Kg>'pt.  With  as  much 
pains,  and  with  a  more  honourable  direction,  our 
Hindu  Lauder  might  have  immortalised  his  inven- 
tion. 

We  ha\T  authr)rs  who  sold  their  names  to  be 
prefixed  to  works  they  never  read ;  or,  on  the  con- 
trary, have  pretixeil  the  names  of  others  to  their 
own  writings.  Sir  John  Hill,  once  when  he  fell 
sick,  owned  to  a  friend  that  he  had  0%-erfatigued 
himself  with  writing  seven  works  at  once  !  one  of 
which  was  on  architecture,  and  another  on  cookery  < 
This  hero  once  contracted  to  translate  Swammer- 
dam's  work  on  ii>sects  for  fifty  guineas.  After  the 
agreement  with  the  bookseller,  tie  perfectly  recol- 
lectcil  that  he  did  not  understand  a  single  word  of 
the  Dutch  language  !  Nor  did  there  exi^t  a  French 
translation.    The  work,  however,  was  not  the  less 


done  for  this  small  obstacle.  Sir  John  biugpaet 
with  another  translator  for  twenty-Are  eainai. 
The  second  translator  was  prechel  v  in  tfie  sane 
situation  as  the  first ;  as  ignorant,  {bong^  not » 
well  paid  as  the  knight.  He  rebargsined  with  a 
third,  who  perfectly  understood  his  orional,  far 
twelve  guineas  t  So  that  the  translators  yau>  ooaU 
not  translate  feasted  on  venison  and  turtle,  wbile 
the  modest  drud^,  whose  name  nerer  appeind  to 
the  world,  broke  m  patience  his  dail^  bread !  It* 
craft  of  authorship  has  many  mysteries.  The  ytrt 
patriarch  and  primeval  dealer  in  English  liteiatBR 
is  said  to  have  been  Robert  Green,  one  of  the 
most  facetious,  profligate,  and  indefatigid>le  of  the 
Scribleri  family.  He  laid  the  foundation  of  anev 
dynasty  of  literary  emperors.  The  first  act  hf 
which  he  proved  his  claim  to  the  throne  of  Gfi^ 
street  has  sened  as  a  model  to  his  nnmenm 
successoni — it  was  an  ambidextrous  trick  I  Gnci 
sold  his  "Orlando  Furioso"  to  t«x>  ditiienac 
theatres,  and  is  supposed  to  have  been  the  int 
author  in  English  literary  history  who  wrote  »  a 
trader;  or  as  crabbed  Anthony  Wood  phraaesitia 
the  language  of  celibacy  and  cynicism,  **  he  mole 
to  maintain  his  wife,  and  that  high  and  looK 
course  of  living  which  potts  gentrMj  yUtow." 
With  a  drop  still  sweeter,  old  Anthony  dcscriha 
Gayton,  another  worthy ;  "  he  came  up  to  Londoa 
to  live  in  a  shirking  condition,  and  wrote  fnir 
things  merely  to  get  bread  to  sustain  him  and  hii 
rri/t."  The  hermit  Anthony  seems  to  have  hid 
a  mortal  antipathy  against  the  Kve%  of  Ulenqr 
maa. 


CARDINAL  RICHELIEU. 

The  present  anecdote  concerning  Cardinal  RidW' 
lieu  may  scr\'e  to  teach  the  man  of  letters  how  be 
deals  out  criticisms  to  the  great,  when  they  sA 
his  opinion  of  manuscripts,  l)e  they  in  rene  or 
prose. 

The  cardinal   placed  in  a  gallery  of  his  palace 
tlw  portraits  of  several  illustrious  men,  and  lie  w« 
desirous  of  composing  the  inscriptions  to  be  placed 
round  the  portraits.    Tlie  cme  which  he  intended 
for  Montluc,  the  marechal  of  France,  was  con- 
ceived in  these  terms :  Atutta  fecit,  plura  script, 
I'lr  tutrun  magnus  Juit.     He   showed   it  witboat 
mentioning  the    author  to  Bourbon,  the    rm'al 
Greek  professor,  and  asked  his  opinion  concerning 
it.     He   reprobated   it,  and  considered   that  the 
Latin  was  much  in  the  style  of  the  breviar}*;  and, 
if  it  had  concluded  witl'i   an   alUlujah,  it  would 
sen'e  for  an  anthem  to  tlic  Magnificat.    The  cardi- 
nal agreed  with  the  severity  of  his  strictures,  and 
even  acknowledged  the  discernment  of  the  pro- 
fessor ;  "  for,"  he  said,  "  it  is  really  v^Titten  by  a 
priest."    But  however  he  might  approve  of  Bour- 
bon's critical  powers,  he  punished  without  mercy 
his  ingenuity.    The  pension  his  majesty  had  he- 
stov^ed  on  htm  was  withheld  the  next  \-ear. 

The  cardinal  was  one  of  those  ambitious  men 
who  foolishly  anempt  to  rival  every  kmd  of 
genius ;  and  seeing  himself  constantly  disappointed, 
he  envied,  with  all  the  venom  of  rancour,  those 
talents  which  arc  so  frequently  the  atl  that  men  of 
genius  possess. 

He  was  jealous  of  Baleac's  splendid  reputation, 


■^i ... 


.■■T"  ■  .V" 


ASISTOTLE  AND  PLATO.                                       jj  ] 

>nd  offcicd  the  ddtr  H<ln<i>u  im  .ho™md  <to-i» 

acted  ic  dreadfully  iTl." 

M  wrire  ■  crilidim  which  ibould  lidicule  hi> 

direoly  w  Ihe  piajen  lo  plan  a  »™.  imJ(  of 

wllk-."^  cTJ"."  by  opting  10  iPS^"  rf"l«  mM 

bunti  of  applaute  were  frequently  heard  1 

80.^"  "  tt«^«uS  ""Eu™;""ir'^irt  'iht 
muiUir  Iu3  cdngiiKitcd  the  lour  <|UKtci>  of  the 

imitating  Cardinal  Ximenea.     Hiny  ViB  not  a 

t'lXh^Xiiiraefc  he  plHxd  himKtf  al  the  head 

^Shcr.  4\!*J  K^^wn™™!  ^.  "rh^  1^ 

of  Ihe  ilkEoHa.    Id  thb  (lucdy  FnndDn  n- 

to  all  Europe.      And   became   Ximenei  had   es- 
tablhhedachooiiofthcology.Rlcbdieu  unaeno<.k 
UkewiK  to  niK  inw  doiice  ibe  (chooli  of  the 

(alluding  to  Ihe  tmeb  lUin)  i>  Ih«  Kmul  at 

fanoon,  ohUe  Hiipilc  ii  the  conlidint  of  Ibae. 

wiilten  tcveial  IheoloEical  tnaliiD,  our  cardinal 

waa  abo  deiiroiu   of  letting    paleritv   varioui 

coploui :— Albwnc  ditnllKt  EngUnd;  (*-«  tnori 
5/  im  *i.lr  tf  ^Hilrfiii  m.in  iSr  towni  of  ClCf 

mont,  Sieiuiy.  mi  Jurnet,  theK  pluci  once  be- 

liMie  i>  Ibe  town  oC  Ninty.  belonging  onte  lo  the 

ilukei  of  LoniinE.    The  in  of  Iberi»"<  grea  porch 
it  l-eTrtgnm,  >'faiih  Fnnet  took  fnm  li«ln  j  >»1 

to  an  oflen«>e  nickname  given  him  by  Ihe  <iueen 
of  Lauit  XIII.  than  even  bf  Ihe  hin  of  Ihealrei 

sfiTis-;,?;;  ss-rrtK-ci; 

Caidinal  Richelieu  wai  anurediy  a  great  poUti- 
caJgeniiK.    sir  William  Temple  obieivea,  thai  he 

mcn™"o  X  '^!'ai?t.Tnder"^h.rK; 

nge, and  icattei^it  aboiil  hi>  Hud)',    Tmrmls 

crening,  like  mafba  Medea  luncDIhia  onr  the 
paucd  the  uighl  in  uniting  the  Katleted  linbi. 

lie  Iben  venlund  lo  a.-ow  hinucir;  and  taving 

OrammoBt  loic  an  impoRanl  batlle  by  the  orden 

pRlendnl  lo  connt  thb  incoiruiMe  tagciv,  the 
■ubmi^ce  Acwlamr  letncled  thcit  cennini.  bul 

of  alTain  hh  majenjf,  who  waa  inclined  lo  die 

miia  him,  could  not  dien  abiolutely  do  without 

Vanity  In  tbii  caidliul  lerclled  >  great  ftenint. 

k^Srrn'^r^h'lSi.^.^^l'SuonL'^'- 

excellence  will  be  impelled"  to  'practlK°mean- 

"  En  v«n  contre  le  Cii.  un  minitfn  k  ligue : 

manyafiluah. 

Tout  l^ri^  pow  CT™™,  a  let  yeui  de  H>d,ipu." 

AU  PaiH,  for  CUmrii,  hai  RtHtriiVi  ejM. 

tngcdf  Ihe  Prendh  dnMom  ••  derioed  of  lecuHiig  a 

number  of  frtendt  (o  appUud  Iheir  p[tat  at  their 

ofwhich  wmeof  IhemoneininenlKholan  have 

anecdote  concerning  thii  dnii  Iragedv  in  leau- 

d)»i.p->  Sfaftrft*,.  »<r  A.  T*fl(/«. 

ha.e  fell  a  Htoog  convicUon  of  hit  merit  when  he 

The  minhter,  after  the  ill  luccni  ofhii  nigedv. 

lethid  unaccompanied  Ihe  ume  evening  to  his 

them  not  w  muSifct  the  fa.-oor  of  hit  birth,  u 

hit  haiing  come  into  Ihe  world  at  a  time  when 

friend    mil.     Oeimaret.  con>ectuTing  Ibal  the 

you  can  have  the  care  of  hii  education ;  and  Ihal 

my  «n.'' 

"Well  1"   laid  the  cardinal  a>  ioon  aa  he  BW 

Diogenet  Laeitiui  detcribet  Ihe  perwn  of  the 

■hen. "the  Pienchwiii  nc<er  ponen  •  tMe  lor 

Irw'y"— "  My  lond,'-  aniwertd  Petit.  "  it  ii  uM 

IhatoflbepUjfri.    DW  not  your  eminence  p«- 

phHoiophlc  chancier;  a  thing  it  common  wtlh 

Ibal  Ibey  wm  all  dnin*  /■■— "  keaUy,"  ie|diBl  the 

5X  AIIlAEJ'  ASD  ELOr-X 

aft^raxmp  if  ^xe  Mig|gTC»  a€  die  jdzIcnaviKer.  rlmifti 
3t9  V':riLi  iTK  «;  iimnrre  :  lie  V3b  apea.  ?i 

v'Ttarie  ^  ain  siramxra  .  3uicu=icxac  \n.  is  irem.  vtaa  aack  j.  j:«ei.i  Losnnc  ^=^  ci>  ^itt.    T^cnr  ci 

E{^   a   tckrrziiei  a  terce,  uwt.nnm.    jmt  jurotfOk:.  "Atag  be  tisur^:  r?  r-a-u  .^.TMvrji;.  ioii  k  bwaaae    ' 

Sic  .tnneit  ::k:  i  ^lac:  a:r  jtrfnosu.  £rn)CCi:iL  Sac  ec  tber    inc?;^aA  xzktcic  a?  cierrn::ar«  bn 

in    'u^rinc   xiMii^^icxa.    HJs  ^oaHcir  i:r  asxarr  L'aaLfaaifrJ-i  coe  da<r  PLicq  fe:cat^  brmaieic 

-u:c3»f:neL    lira.    vztiH    qyeaaea    vsea    &«    vb  icco:i.    «£3i:(^    cbcK   t^rrr    UToartre   nc 

»:unur,  "3.1C  u:  rrnauinin  ul:!.-*  jr";uerr j .  Ijeraua  Ar»!»rctJe  dns*  m  iisc — &  crc««.  cfACT  acil 

ua   ■}r-ixr--vx  -3e    v:J.    (:t    j-rmucjs.    v^tctL    m  v\dl  !ri=.    The  :»&:..  wcc-ne  cricjo  cbcv  «ae«4 

:nrj;tii».     TTse   oaief    pact  nra    -ra    cJte    ^ranr  »   e»«rrura.    wis    pc!:>H:z'5cu    re   rarm.    Kc  «n»  j 

nv    icarz.  «e    :ai:ijK9  tij  aEjr-?.  :3c  «xr.-:ia:r»  t«3s»  cja  caaec^ucu  »:»  ycT.cp.    The  ce 

Tf'il  u»  -rjTTru  ««  Hiirrjs  an  ?erM:a.«f  in  laatrxr  «a»  ace  jcb£.    *ccitf  rjjLc  M:;cs>i 

ruA.     L-  ULe  x»itt»  iC  CiJiim.  lOe  iCou.  occupy  ^jsc.    K<  u«  £.:=aM::^>  <*wrrr:-.':i;Ka.  b%  tffae 

317  diner,  urn  say  eLrcunrn  nt.i.    asraiaa  nrttrr  s^^rs . — "  K:    ^j^    iL:vkrvL   itrir-jg  »  j»  a  o 

■it  3i:«ie  ;uh:»  Cis  ±nsi  :n.  '  i^;-nwc  :t»  ri:c;<-.  ' 

-t-amrjc  lai.  trudel  imijer  "ie  di^-JBe  ?!af5  ;        ici:o  irrcr  cr^  t  Jiir-i^^-rtc  i»r:«=ccrT  bee 

itvc  "inic  -tinir'.Due  uuL  a«  xjoo?  c<.:<;.jl1  a:c  jri«rt;;ii  tr  c'^k  zx^'IkX.  Jic^i.-:"*.   .•rscrrj.-  r;=ai'2«ii  miMjcr   !' 

njrse    a  -acar  sXiicrmei  •  r^jcr  wfr*  rr  -pyist-i  Ji  ±c  r«ai  :t  tame.    Hi   rii««v:  i  -Kfanri. 

:aaflca   uut  ^luinsw     JLjCiJ   •»■»  "se   »:*Mtf"    re  r::^  icrrrccii  i--=a:if  t:  -misr  ;t  ••<  —•.-«  iU3ic« 

fc'.nlirxnt:   •?-.  jmi   Arstrc*    :f"  tat   ;cr.:?are=x  Grrrcr.     I-f.rc  :irK  tii:v;^rc  vccaJT*  «  Pcmk.   i 

••jTi:  -WW  unrjiii,  m:«iar.  ^niBu,  loi  ut  iaacsrt  ifuc^^a  =r  iTrr*^  :2e  *i_«   .r  rzctr  tzuscer.  jb4 

-nannert     a   p*-*t,   r-trnil  tsu.  a   £.£:u:uj9   -cr^j^is^  li  rroit  izzc^ot  irr  rzucr  •^—^rztinr^x  ra.  txin^ 

^tiac'.iirai::?,  un:  :iistr:«w   :i    :::f-i&i=»c  .t  i=i:c;p«  jer— \rT:..*crirr*w  lie  7-.;»c  Ar-icc-  cE  ris* 

-irt-r:      -.ji    •-:?•-.  :r.i:  '   .a  h    hujri^-^iiu^  la  i-:c9-  rt-fara:  jm:cc  ?'_i:-:  12   i_  :ji  ri^tj.   'mboc  t&MC 

ijsm.    "ne    :rr.»;.   2.m   *itrr:io:   la   jsir=::£i:c:»     :■»  tie  *CLr2»  cr  tbcir  ■k^ttti.  i±j:tiiw  iT^w«i  ^ 

aari.ii.-:.  :r  -a«-iit  -v-:  .txirtar.i  7i:;-i:«H:cc«;=».  j-sr=a-  i-.-acLr.-.     t  wtuc  nosctfr  ij»  «crts  biBcv 

*  T*:rt  ^'tnl■i^•  :r  ?!ar.;  »  =i:r;  ;i'uhCiri-  imi  tiir    ii;3»;.:=»:isc  ::  _»  ijs  roe=  t.ai  :s  ti,:i  •-'.•* 

:i    »--H- :ije  zir.rz.  -  jit  1=1:  ;r",n-uSiL     Piar:  ijia  i  "Uc  trtii-je  r«*:^ni.->it  /,-  5d<j4..     .%ni«n:i:je 

-j:a.  a    ittu*.  .-r  -■ijrr-u  ch.  ia«i  31  rf-rr»;  c-t-  -.za  :xr£  :c  >?k:nrs^.  Ts-^ci  :.'  rrrirr  crrr  AtbewL 

i».i-  mr    i   ':::i:«--aail    ::fer:a-r   *  .r:».    1  t::i:'-"U=»i  Lt.   1    rci«:j"J.  =:.iz2.;r   *«;  ^rcrtec  r^t  ii"»  «bc~ 

!•;••    :..u:>.r».   i^  j»C"^-n;:ui   "Vi   "^cr  *&.* ;«•:-;  "ct  ^-."rcr      T'icrr   *rr:    rr?    r-ij*    jz    i_h  i^2>:ca»: 

i&iiur    L-    ■:    .1   si-'-.-^nif  —trr;   --laa    .rtjit:-^j.:;i:n..  Jfitaccccr.z*  -.iv:   sLj.-c-.ui.  irc   Tt^jtrcsc-Tarj*  -y 

-trar.-.rj?   »  :art  aii   ir"  -a  i^  :i;  *»-:*- ret  Trtor  L«:ia=.     \-.z^t.z  :Kz:-^'x..t  f:?  ia»  V^n  c— txa. 

.•.ill    ia:-:i:n,   3«xrT  w  :'  .-.  .'..is  ♦:th"— ::«  \:zji:i:=:-  ■»•=«  ;<■*!»  ik.>-_<.rji:'i  t:  i-.z*  ■■i*  .- -.ircofro 

r.i-i:.  ■    ui.~r-!-t      1=1:    :..^    -".si  . —  ca,    aar-iri-    re  ^  — .  t=«i  :-r   ^o;-:--  tz.:=:  :■:   ;r.ix  t;ij  «-.=m   :e 

irirrrv:.   i.-vvi^r   lai: -tr.  j-^i:    :.:•  -T:aicr».     ?'j:.    -•»  jLiirC'O  i=c  L.r*.-«  *.     He  usm  :i;;£.  jrn  i*-.  jjcii 

r :  lo..  ■  ii- .1  iT'.    r.  '...I  V.I  i:.p-.t  i.tii   -  :  »  rA^rrr-  "f.    t'rri   :-■;    :-:c.:_r  t:  Ttcr  *v-_.  :  l.  *    :u  =^ 

«i:n«       ».-:rr.:r.:    :.:■•■. (i.*:  :.:  r-r    in  ttiti^  -.ir.-i.,  ti^T;.ir:':.  rt-.'-uct:  ^"^rr^  .-  tli.:^   ;.Li_r.  — T^ 

-»    ^cr    in-    :r:;i  u"        I:**   ir-  .;    »   tir:.-;    iz.i  x  :>.c  .ir  ■»-■:<;  ^  rr-:  <-.  r  u?.-<.  rs.t  •;.;  Lr».».ir  » 

■r:i.u.     :>.'    :j;i-<    tiii    i •;-:-.»  .  "— ir    :'    r'-t-r   -•♦  -z-t   Ywxrr:^.   iz*^   tijc    'z>:   i.  — bcj-    ?'::r:r~cv:     : 

CTSii   i::i:   'iivir::.   :•.-    i.«:?<    i-»i  :;:f  »•«.     r'-ir:  Tl-j*     i--*      ::u?:=-:;v     or*:-;^.-. -c-.:     1^     "ii- .-.rte 

L.«i:-i   un    r»r;  -.1.1.1    :•;  iCi   lj:   m;       »rih'."j:  T'"ir  ^c.-isTi*,  tic  i. tier  .:  tz«r  '  Ctarwtir^*  xt 

iir'-r*   w*  nji'-.u."     ir:ii    tti-'s»  "t  t:j«urr  i-v-*-.*  isi  KX-artr. 
-:  t!--*  ^.i.n  -^M    It'.  »a-  t.     ".  ii:  ■:•;<  H.r:rfl«c»  , 

-r.ir  ::uri.r-     -it  :'-.:r.r  „.-..t.i.-r»  li.;  ..-rr^ir^t*  5-,-r<* 

r   :«   i.ac  »a.:  •:...:.  --•-.  c     !»Mr:    ::rr:r.::i-  a.e_ajI.    .\>.    r_.,;>A. 

nr.a  ».rtirtz:='r '.r  r^:*-"*  '"  *-i   1  ".;.:•::':  :■.  i:»        .tix::-*.*-.   «:    iirri:=!»   v  i,*  •—■ ticjc*  irc  r.^ 

cmi      uiii    .*r.ir'.rje  «:rriri.'=i£   :■  . -xr^'^^*  *^-  i=-"-"^  "■'-^  £^.>a.  nri.i.  irn.-ou:  ti<  irrrt^rx  :.- 

:  iirrr.  >   tc. »  •i::i«  -.:  ;"f:»-=w  1  r.-h-.r  ■•t-  .  lai  •-:<  r  r*  .t  i..t  iric-rjc*.     Ttr  w-iiol  xt^ccc  Jici:»t; 

Aracn:  :;:-;.  "^lU.!  -.:  -.i_it,i»r.-  i>=:  i=<^-;cii  tz*  rjruier  ;art  ct  ia»  iae  wri  1 

Aa    :rtsrE»r=:»f    lae.iDire    j»    rrj.*!:';    :f    t3«£>e  r:i.-<:.'<i::u    ;i£r«c>rsri5cs»  r_   At  icc^itt.   tlien    ;<t- 

jCiiiSNr^CiO  —  .•-j»r.:or  ;iiKar:e  t2ii  r-r-j.  :c  Pfoi:.  <;-.jiagc  &f=jrs.  c-^  :i^  .--:**iL  tu:  »S(C  t^  cicw 

lj--Tri     t^fitn   jthic  i=.".«BiC4'i    :«tr»-_it   tic=i.  t=r7aeii   .»:-t.:.  tix:  jolt  Arwiint  w»  wtjr  tics 

T^  :Jk::7v.s  rudovjr-  i^  trjac-r.  j:itf.  tie  =.>sc<r  :r.ijur  ccacrtreii  i:=  to  ^.    Ber&iec,  :3^A=ieii 

tr»:iaed   i-tct^ssnciiei*    iai   istc-.^u:.     T;   sroJLs  igurac  .i  •^■.  c:ccK3:=ei£  'f^n-j  t^  csisrr^^zaar 

nu»  i;:.fer:i:n=i   -cjaideic.  AraCiO:  vraceji.  xx  1  tcfrcjr.    tc:    :t    »   nrgr.iftifeye  i^u    dke    book 


ABELARD  ASD  ELOISA. 


he,  "ibc  Ehtn  propoulioq  ofi  lylJo^Ri  fonn 
bul  one  truth,  w  the  Fathtt  ani  Svt  coiutitntc 
hut  aM  rianct. — Tilt  nu/«r  reprocnti  the  ftthtr, 

Glfii!"    II  u  cuTioni  to  (dd  thit  Itnutd  hlmiclr 

lUadiiia^"  nyiihli  Hiin,^ii  ihc'iini«e  oT  Uod, 
We  hiH  It   comhti  of  three  ptnt :— 'memory, 

■LI   which   «e   know,  without   co^titbn  {    to 

not  Ken  deposited  hy  iruinm.  By  mtmory.  ve 
mcmble  the  fiUlr:  by  imIilUfna  the  Soni 
uul   by  iivU  the  Htly  Chul.-    Btttuid'i  Lib. 

SecTits  de  It  R^bJlque  do  Leltm."  We  miy 
idd,  ilio,  Ihil  bnauK  Abclinl.  In  the  warmth  of 

Dnli,  iiTTuKc,'  ind  St.  Ulldu'de  Run.  in' 
Bmigne,  tor  the  horrid  iucontineiice  of  Aeh 
iiva,  they  joined  hli  enemlet,  «nd  mined  to 
cDlbJttet  I^e  Ufe  of  Ibii  Ingniloui  Kholir ;  who 
perhipi  WB  gullw  o(  no  otlier  etimc  thin  Ihit  of 

only  pofonted  the  CDchutlB^  attnctidito  of  the 

congeniiiity  of  diipoltlan,  ind  is  eathulara  of 


Ibli  filthful  hiisbui 


hnced  hit  beloved  Elolu.    Thli 


'cin,  Ibli  filthful  bus 
cd  tncm,  Hnd  clowiy 

mirK^be  fr 


bi«cry.  not  only  relitci  lh»  Ifwndfjr  late  of  the 
inci<.n1  chroDltlen,  but  gina  it  u  an  iDcideiit  well 
aulhcBtloled,  and  tnuDtiint  In  ^osibliity  by 

unci  not  only  CRibtlUibcd  poetry,  hot  enltreiKd 

an  two  MweTful  Buchiites  <o  employ  in  the 
aaiaulla  of  love  ^  pitliculjily  when  the  pajnioiute 
■orig)  the  poelicsJ  lover  com'po^et  are  tung  by  him- 
leir    Thu  serrcL  wai  well  kllawn  to  IIk  eicgiut 

of  Bloiu.  and  infuKd  nch  fire  into  her  frame,  by 
emplrying  biafiufta  and  hiijlu  ulci.  Hut  the 


^  the  world  got  them  by  heart,  and  the  name  of 
h»  mittteja  wu  apr cad  from  proiini-e  to  proriBcu. 
Wtaai  a  gniihcuian  lo  the  enihuili>iic,  the 


Egendi  in  I  nuntieiT,  and  bad  been  ludcTed 
mnwe  her  geniui  by  a  eonlinui'd  irolicaliai 


bad  been  ludcTed  to 


tieida  they  pliicked  the  can  and  ate  them  like 

oAcnded,  doth  aot  deiiie  ji  man." 

It  h  on  the  mlKonccptloii  of  the  miJd  apolo- 
gelicd  reply  gf  Jtint. Indeed, that  r.ii>icu<  t3n.<- 

and  ilottnllniiM,  ii  an  tclof  plely.JUnliiilic  Itc 
pollli>al  fanalict,  who  thoujiht  that  npuMi.  inl-m 

primii^,  thai  ii  i>  a^i-like  to  go  dirty,  negei^ 
and  ilovenly,  wt  Bbhop  Lavlnglcn, "  Bntitn^asm 
of  the  HethudliD  and  raid>ii,"  how  fmah  did 
whiteKeld  lake  car*  of  (he  outward  trun,sholD 
hil  joumals  writs,  "  My  appiicl  wn  mean — 
thought  it  unbecoming  a  penitent  to  hate  pvui- 
drriiJtah—l  wore  unMUn  gtrvrt,  a  falthtd  irum, 

Abelard  raiici  tbe  Khool  of  the  Patacirle^  wift[ 


56     PHYSIOGSOMT.^CHARACTEBS  DESCRIBED  B  7  MUSICAL  NOTES. 


Me  d^^oit  prendre  pour  sa  femme, 
Bt  me  taire  du  monde  dame ; 
Si  vouldroye-je  mieux,  dist-elle 
Et  Dieii  en  tesmoing  en  appelle 
Etre  sa  Putaine  appellee 
Qu'ctre  emperiere  cuuronnce. 


PHYSIOGNOMY. 


A  VERY  extraordinan-  phy-siognomical  anecdote 
has  been  given  by  lie  la  Place  in  his  **  Piects 
InurmanUi  it  peu  Connuct"  vol.  iv.  p.  8. 

A  friend  assured  him  that  he  had  seen  a  volu> 
minous  and  secret  correspondence  which  had  been 

carried  on  between  Louts  XIV.  and  his  favourite  I  the  tenseness  cf  the  ncr\cs  favours  it. 
physician  De  la  Chambre  on  this  science :  the  '  ceive  it  done  in  the  medulla  of  the  brain,  where 
laith  of  the  monarch  seems  to  have  been  great,  ■  is  the  common  stovk  of  spirits;  as  in  an  or^uit 
and  the  purpose  to  which  this  corre^pond^rnvc  '  whose  pipes  being  uncovered,  the  air  rushes  into 
tended  was  extraordinary  indeed,  and  perhaps  >  them  ;  but  the  kc>s  let  go,  are  stopped  again, 
scarcely  credible.     ^  ho  will  believe  that  l^uis  |  Now,  if  by  repeated  acts  or  frequent  entertaining 


forth.    For  the  second,  that  ideas  have  the 
efiect  with  the  otjtctf  dreams  confirm  too  often. 

**  The  manner  I  concei\-e  to  be  thus.  The  ani- 
mal spirits  moved  in  the  sensory-  by  an  object, 
continue  their  motion  to  the  brain ;'  whence  tbe 
motion  is  propagated  to  this  or  that  particular 
part  of  the  bodv,  as  is  most  suitable  to  the  design 
of  its  creation  ;  having  first  made  an  alteration  in 
the  Jact  by  its  nerves,  especially  by  the  pathetic 
and  oculorum  tnotoru  actuating  its  many  muscles, 
as  the  dial-plate  to  that  stupendous  piece  of  clock- 
work which  shows  what  is  to  be  expected  next 
from  the  striking  part.  Not  that  I  think  the 
motion  of  the  &pirit»  in  the  sensory-  continued  by 
the  impression  of  the  object  all  the  wav,  as  from 
a  finger  to  the  foot :  I  know  it  too  weak,  though 

But  I  con- 


XIV.  was  so  con\inced  of  that  talent  which  De  la 
Chambre  attributed  to  himself,  cf  deciding  merely 
by  the  ph\>iognomv  of  persons  not  only  on  the 
real  bent  ot  their  character,  but  to  what  employ- 
ment  they  wtre  adapted,  that  the  king  entered 
into  a  ucret  corresponuincf  to  obtain  the  critical 
notices  of  his  ph^swguonuit  f  That  Louis  XIV. 
should  have  pursued  this  s)stem,  undetected  by 
his  own  courtiers,  is  also  singular ;  but  it  appcani 


of  a  favourite  idea  of  a  pavMon  or  vice,  which 
natural  temperament  ha>  hurried  one  to,  or  custom 
dragged,  the  Jace  is  so  often  put  into  that  posture 
which  attends  such  act5,  that  the  animal  spirits 
find  5uch  Latent  pajs.'iges  into  its  nerves,  that  it  is 
sometimes  unalterably  ^et .-  as  the  Indian  religions 
are  by  long  continuing  in  strange  postures  in  their 
'  pagtrns.    But  most  commonlv  such  a  habit  is  con- 


tracted, that  it  falls  insensibly  into  that  posture 
by  this  correspondence  that  this  art  pOMU\  cly  |  when  >ome  present  object  docs  not  obliterate  that 
swa>  ed  him  in  hu  choice  of  oiVicers  and  favounte>.  j  more  natural  impresMon  by  a  new,  or  dissimula- 

j  tion  hide  it. 

"  Hence  it  is  that  we  see  great  drinkers  with  eyes 
incur  great  risk  of  making  many  an  unfortunate  '  generally  set  towards  the  nose,  the  adducent 
choice  \"  muxles  being  often  employed  to  let  them  see  their 

This  collection  of  ph>'siognomical  correspond-  i  loved  lujuor  in  the  gloss  at  the  time  of  drinking ; 
ence,  if  it  does  really  exi^t,  would  form  a  curious  j  which  were  therefore  called  bibitory.  Lascriiams 
publication  ;  we  have  heard  nothing  of  it !     De  la  ,  persons  are  remarkable  for  the  cculorum  mobdu 


On  one  of  the  backs  of  these  letters  De  la  Chambre 
had  written,  "  If  I  die  beiore  his  majesty,  he  will 


Chambre  was  an  enthusiastic  ph>-siognomist,  as 
appears  by  his  works ;  "  The  Cluracters  of  the 
Passions,"  four  volumes  in  quarto;  **The  Art  of 
knowing  Mankind;"  and  "The  Knowledge  of 
Animab."  La\ater  quotes  his  "Vote  and  In- 
terest" in  fa\our  of  his  favourite  science.  It  is, 
howo-er,  curious  to  add,  that  Philip  Earl  of 
Pembroke,  under  James  I.,  had  formed  a  panuular 
collection  of  portraits  with  a  « iew  to  ph>  sict^no- 
mical  studio.  According  to  Evelyn  on  Medals,  p. 
503,  such  >ft  as  his  sagacity  in  dis.ovenngthe  (.harac- 
ters  and  dispositions  of  men  b\  their  countenances, 
that  James  I.  made  no  little  use  of  his  extraoruinary 
talent  on  X\icjirst  arrriai  t^f  ambassadors  at  court. 

The  following  ph\-siological  definition  of  Phy- 
siOGKOMY  is  extracted  from  a  publication  by  Dr. 
G wither,  of  the  year  1604,  \^hi<.h,  dropping  his 
history  of  "  The  Animal  Spirits,"  is  curious. 

"Soft  wax  cannot  receive  nu>re  various  and 
numerous  impresMons  than  are  imprinted  on  a 
man's  face  by  objects  mo\ing  his  atlections:  and 
not  only  the  objects  themselves  have  this  power, 
but  also  the  very  images  or  ideas ;  that  u  to  say, 
anything  that  puts  the  animal  spirits  into  the 
same  motion  that  the  object  present  did  will  have 
the  same  effect  with  the  object.  To  prove  the 
first,  let  one  observe  a  man's  face  looking  on  a 
pitiM  objer*,  then  a  ridiculous,  then  a  strange, 
then  on  a  tcirio-e  or  dangerous  object,  and  so 


petulantia^  as  Petronius  calls  it.  From  this  also  we 
may  solve  the  Quaker's  expecting  face,  wairing  for 
the  pretended  spirit ;  and  the  melancholy  face  of 
the  sectaries;  the  studious  face  of  men  of  great 
application  of  mind ;  nnengeful  and  bloody  men, 
like  executioners  in  the  act :  and  though  silence 
in  a  sort  may  awhile  pass  for  wisdom,  yet  sooner 
or  later.  Saint  Martin  peeps  through  the  disguise 
to  undo  all.  A  changeable  face  I  have  observed  to 
show  a  changeable  tntnd.  But  I  would  by  no 
means  ha\e  what  has  been  said  understood  as 
without  exception ;  for  I  doubt  not  but  some- 
times there  are  found  men  with  great  and  virtuous 
souls  under  ver>-  unpromising  outsides." 

The  great  Prince  of  Condc  was  very  expert  in  a 
tort  of  ph\siognomv  which  showed  the  peculiar 
habits,  motions,  and  postures  of  familiar  lifie  and 
mechanical  employments.  He  would  sometimes 
lay  waeen  w  ith  his  friends,  that  be  would  guess, 
upon  the  Pont  Neuf,  what  trade  persons  were  of 
that  passed  by,  from  their  walk  and  air. 


CHARACTERS  DESCRIBED  BY  MUSICAL 
NOTES. 

The  idea  of  describing  characten  under  the 
names  of  Musical  Instruments  has  been  already 


dtaplaycil  In  two  imal  plcuing  pipcn  whicfa 
cmbcUbb  the  Tmlir,  wilttfli  by  Adiliwn.    He 

hm  been  flppiaudcd  for  Id  pfitmalily  i  utd  in  ihc 
KiKnl  prcfuc  10  thai  mk,  Ihoic  pipen  ire 
distiiwuhhcd  for  their  felicity  of  imigination. 
The  fotLawinB  paper  wq  published  In  the  year 
1)00,  in  1  vorume  of  "  PhilDuphica]  Tnnuclioni 
and  Collection^"  and  Ihetwo  numben  of  Addison 
in  the  year  1710.    11  is  pfobable  that  this  inimi- 


=*: 


Ct  when  they  come  to  be 


■tllLncasaxidiluietcomponiTe:  the  Phty^n,  joliity 
and  youtlifur  IcvUy  1  the  loaic  h  a  Miller  of  sionns 
and  ^vtdrbanca  irl^ng  from  paA^on.  And  why 
may  nut  we  reatonably  iu^bk,  that  those  vha« 
speech  naturally  tuns  into  the  notes  pecullac  Co 

O  S-l  rr  til,  to  be  peevish  and  efleniinate.    fitii, 

titfi,  to  be  of  good  pJiTt«»  and  HI  for  variely  of 

ture.  Liheuise  ftwn  the  Timek:  lo  imi-britfi 
nuy  ipeak  a  temper  dull  and  phlegmatic ;  minhu, 

brUfftit,  may  denote  one  either  idupid  or  fuller  of 
thoughtithin  he  can  utter  1  ntnin-rMI,  one  thai 

thai  from  the  natural  uie  of  Moon,  Non,  and 


in^    The  politencsa  «  the 
in  the  dignilyol  the  authoc, 


public  of  letlers. 
proper  to  republish 


aame  oprnioa;  for  he  thou^ 
V  published  my 


of  King  Charles,  the  latter  Ihe  adi-ocate  of  Ih 
people — waa  of  Ihal  magnitude,  that  all  Euro; 
look  a  part  in  Ihe  paper-war  of  these  Iwo  grej 
men.    The  answer  of  Milton,  who  perfectly  ma 

whatever  ii  addreaed  lo  the  cimea,  however  grei 
may  be  its  meril,  is  doomed  10  peii^  with  tt 
timet;  yet  on  these  pages  the  philosopher  will  n 
conlemplaleinvaia. 
U  will  form  no  uninleresling  article  lo  galher 

well  call  Ihcm.  with  which  they  mulually  pn 

cjual  to  Ehclr  erudition,  the  two  most  learned  ai 


a  If  they  w 


That  the  deformity  of  the  body  li  an  idea  we 

in  the  enliahtcncd  philoinphcr  thus  to  compare 
the  cto^iednptf  of  corporeal  mailer  wilh  the  recti* 

the  laita  lomiidible  ciHic,  have  frequently  (OD- 
sideled,  thai  eomparing  Uirdcn  and  Pope  to  what- 

veTygofldargumcnl  to  lower  their  IIEera^abUitia, 
Salmanus  seems  aha  to  have  enlertained  this  idea, 
[bough  his  i^ea  in  Engl:ind  gave  him  wrona  in- 
( . —  — ■!.,..   ■ 1..  J ■>■- i^u™ 


k  j  or,  povlblv,  he  only  divw  I 


. , ton  as  being 

dwarf  deprived  of  the  human  figure,  a  bloodies! 
bring,  composed  of  nothing  bulrkin  and  bone; 
a  toniernpiiblc  pedagogue,  lit  on'r  "f  "<«  •j'* 

mind  into  a  poetic  frenzy,  he  applies  to  him  Ihe 
words  of  VubII,  "  Hmaiiim  hnrmJiim,  tnltmi, 
infff J,    tut    taraert  t4rmpium"    Our    great  poet 

Rfutalion ;  pcchapa  heiHd  not  wish  lo  appear  des- 
picable In  the  eyes  of  Ihe  ladieti  and  he  woald 
not  be  siknl  on  the  subiecl,  he  sayi.  tot  any  one 
should  comider  him  aa  llie  credulous  Spaniards 

ia  a  kind  of  thinoteroaoc  a  Jog-headed  monster. 


58 


OniGIS  OF  KEWSPAPKIiS. 


Mtlt^n  sa\-n,  that  he  don  not  think  any  one  ever 
1 1  noiilcrcd  him  is  unbcautiful ;  that  h»sizc  rather 
;:ppTcachc»  mcUtocrity  than  the  diminutive ;  that 
he  ^ill  felt  the  same  courage  and  the  same  strength 
u hi^h  he  pcmeved  when  young,  when,  w itli  ni^ 
«word,  he  felt  no  diiliculty  to  combat  with  men 
more  robust  than  himself;  that  his  face,  far  from 
l«ein;;  pale,  emacuted,  and  wrinkled,  was  sulTi- 
Licntlv  creditable  to  him;  for  though  he  liad 
paved  hi)  fortieth  year,  he  wa%  in  all  other  respects 
tjn  years  younger.'  Andver>'  pathctually  headd<, 
•*  that  o-en  his  eyc«,  blind  is  thc>'  are,  are  unble- 
mlihed  in  their  appearance ;  m  tlti^  inst<«nce  alone, 
and  much  again«t  my  inclination,  1  am  a  deceiver." 

Morus  m  hi^  Epi -tic  dedicatory*  of  his  Reaii  San- 
frutr.u  Clatnor,  compares  Milton  to  a  hangman; 
Lis  di<<ir(lercd  virion  to  the  blindness  of  hi^  hju\, 
and  vomits  forth  his  venom.  I 

When  Salmasius  found  that  his  strictures  on  the 
pnv>n  of  Milton  were  fal-te,  and  that,  on  the  con* 
trarv,  it  was  uncommonly  beautiful,  he  then  turned 
hi^  hatter>-  against  those  graces  with  which  Nature 
had  M  liberally  adorned  liis  ad\ervir>-.  And  it  i-  ■ 
now  that  he  seems  to  have  laid  no  restrict  inns  on 
his  pen ;  but  racing  with  the  irritation  of  Milton's 
''ucce^'s,  he  throws  out  the  bUckcvt  calumnio,  and 
tlie  mtM  infamous  a*per>ions.  i 

It  mu^t  be  obM;r\cd,  when  Milton  first  propovil 
to  answer  KilmaMus  he  had  lo^t  the  u<  ol  c>ne  ci 
hi->  I  yes:  and  his  phwiiuns  dccl.ired,  th.it  il  he  . 
applied  himself  to  theconiniversv,  the  other  \\<  iilil 
iikeui'>c  clo"<  for  ever  '     Hi^  p.itrioti-m  was  r.ot  ti 
lie   hatned  hut   with   life   itself,     l-nhappily.  iIk 
pretiiction  of  his  physic  ians  took  pl.ice.    1  huo  ? 
learned   mar   in   the  occupations  cf  study   lill. 
blind  :  a  cir  umstance  even  now  not  read  witlx -ut  ' 
»ymp.ithy.     Salmasius  considers   it   as  one   fn.ni 
uliKh  he  may  draw  cau->ti«.  iidi«.ule  and  ratiiii. 
set  erity.  i 

SilniaMus  glories  that  Milton  Inst  hio  he.'dtli  and 
hi-  eves  in  an^kWering  hi^apcloiTk  fcr  Kin^j Charles' 
Ho  tloc^  not  now  reproach  him  with  natural  dt- 
fdrmiiics;  but  he   malignantly   sympathises  with 
liiin,  that  he  now  no  more  is  in  iK»se>»irn  <»f  that  , 
IxMUty  which  rendered   him   io   amiable  during  < 
his  residence  in  /luly.     He  speaks  more  plainly  in  . 
a  follow  ing  page ;  and  in  a  word,  would  blacken 
the  austere  sirtue  of  Miltun  with  a  crime  too  in- 
famous to  name. 

Impartiality  of  criticism  obliges  us  to  confess ! 
that  Milton  wa.s  not  destitute  of  rancour.  When  ■ 
he  was  told  that  his  adversary  tioasted  he  had  occa-  ] 
sinned  the  I'fss  of  his  eyes,  he  answered,  with  the  j 
fcroiity  of  the  irritated  passion — "  ^r,d  I  shall  cost , 
him  hit  UJt  "'  A  predii tion  whiih  was  soon  after  I 
veritied  :  for  Christina,  Queen  cf  Sweden,  withdrew  ' 
her  patronage  from  Salmasius,  and  sided  with  ' 
Milton.  Tire  universal  neglect  the  proud  scholar 
felt  hastened  his  death  in  the  course  of  a  twelve- 
month. 

How  the  gmtness  of  Milton's  mind  was  de- 
graded !  He  actually  condescended  to  enter  into 
a  correspondence  in  Holland  to  obtain  little  scan- 
dalcus  anecdotes  of  his  miserable  adverury  Morus, 
and  deigned  to  adulate  the  unworthy  Christina  of 
Sweden,  because  she  had  expressed  herself  (avour- 
ablv  on  his  **  Defence."  Of  late  yean  we  bas-e 
haii  but  too  many  instances  of  this  worrt  of  pa>> 
sions ;  the  antipathies  of  politics ! 


ORIGIN  OP  NEWSPAPERS. 

W'c  are  indebted  to  the  Italians  for  the  Idea  of 
newspapers.  I'he  title  cf  tlieir  gazttias  waa  per- 
haps deri«  ed  from  gazxtra^  a  magpie  or  cbatteicr ; 
or  more  probably  from  a  farthing  coin,  peculiar  to 
the  (.ity  of  Venice,  called  gazettm,  wfakh  was  the 
ccmmcn  price  of  the  newjtpapen.  Another  etr- 
mokijgist  H  for  deri\  ing  it  from  the  Latin  g«MM^ 
whivh  would  collcqui^ly  lengthen  into  gazeii^ 
and  signifv  a  little  trea5ur>-  of  news.  The  Spaiush 
derive  it  from  the  I ^tin  goxiit  and  hkewise  their 
gatMiero  dud  cut  gaze: ictr  fo^  a  writer  of  the  ^«- 
xrtte^  and,  what  is  tK'culiar  to  themselves, (tfxtffifM, 
for  a  lover  ol  the  g.i/ette. 

New^pape^•  then  to<:k  their  birth  in  that  prin- 
cipal land  ot  mirdem  politicians,  Italy,  and  under 
the  government  ol  thai  aristocratical  republic, 
Venice.  I'he  tir«t  pnper  was  a  Venetian  one,  and 
only  monthly :  but  it  was  merely  the  newspaper 
of  the  go\  eniment .  ( )ther  go\  emments  aftcrwudt 
adopted  the  Venetian  plan  cfa  newspaper,  with 
the  Venetian  name :  from  a  solitary  gosxTrnment 
gazette,  an  inundation  cf  new>papen  Las  bunt 
iil*<)n  u<. 

.Mr.  George  Ch.-ilmerv.  in  his  life  of  Ruddiman, 
gi\cs  a  1  uncus  partiiular  of  these  Venetian  ga- 
/ette«.  "  A  je.ilf.U't  government  did  not  allow  a 
fm.Utl  newNp.iper  :  and  tlie  Venetian  gazttta  con- 
tiitucd  U.nt;  alter  iIk:  inventii  n  cf  printing  to  the 
«.l(^e  cl  the  >i\tet.nih  century,  and  i\-in  to  our 
own  d.iy<,  to  be  tiMnbuted  in  manuicrtpt.'*  In 
'.he  Mji;li.tlx-cl.i.in  librar>-  at  (Inrvme  are  thirty 
xoUinic**  cf  Vinction  ^a/eita^  all  in  manuscript. 

ll.<scwlo  trst  VTcie  iKw>p.ipers  were  called 
bv tl.e iLiIi^ns n.t t. .inti ;  iH'causc, s.u s Vcssius, thcv 
intended  ttimnuiniy  l.\  these  Iccse  papers  to  spread 
aliout  defaniatcTy  Tellei.tion.s,  and  were  iberefcrc 
{Tohibitedin  Italy  I  y  Gre.L'cry  XIII.  by  a  (urtivular 
i)uU,  under  the  name  cf  itunanut^  frcm  the  I<atin 
minantti,  threatening.  Menai^e,  however,  derives 
it  from  tlie  Italian  vufiure,  which  signifies  to  lead 
at  large,  or  spread  atUr. 

Mr.  Chalmers  discovers  in  England  the  first 
newspaper.  It  may  gratify  naticnal  pride,  Raj's  he, 
to  l>e  told  that  mankind  are  indebted  to  tlie  wis- 
dom of  Eli/abeth  and  the  prudence  of  Burleigh 
for  the  first  newspat>er.  llie  epoch  of  the  Spanish 
Armada  is  also  the  epo<h  of  a  genuine  newspaper. 
In  the  British  Museum  are  several  newspapen 
whiih  wcTe  printed  whik;  the  Spanish  fleet  was  in 
the  English  Channel  during  the  year  15S8.  It  was 
a  wi»e  polity  to  preM-nt,  during  a  moment  of 
general  anxiety,  the  danger  cf  uilse  n'ports,  by 
publisVing  real  informaticn.  l^e  earliest  news- 
paper ft.  entitled  "  The  Englisli  Merturie,"  which 
by  authority  **  was  imprinted  at  London  by  her 
highnesses  printer,  15^8."  T1»e«  were,  howes-er, 
but  extraordinary-  gazettes,  not  regularly  published. 
In  this  obscure  origin  they  were  skilfully  directed  by 
the  policy  of  that  great  statesman  Burleigh,  who.  to 
inflame  the  national  feeling,  gives  an  extract  of  a 
letter  from  Madrid  which  speaks  of  putting  the 
queen  to  death,  and  the  instruments  of  torture  on 
board  the  Spanish  fleet. 

Mr.  Chalmen  has  exultingly  taken  down  these 
patriarchal  newspapen,  coixred  with  the  dust  of 
two  centuries. 


osiars  OF  newspapers. 


Homin,  not  in  bluk  kticr.  It  contiini  the  unuJ 
uti^iei  of  newt  like  the  LoDdcni  Catctic  of  du 
picKnl  lUy.  In  Ihil  rurioiu  piper,  there  ire 
ncwi  diled  FiTHn  wbiiehaU;  on  Ibe  iyi  Injv,  ijS8. 
Under  the  <Ute  ol  July  16  Acre  ii  the  fblliwiDg 
ncMicC!  "Yeitcnll)'  the  Scott  unbiMidin  being 
inlRxlucedtoSrFruiiriiWiiluDgbun.hidiprituc 

leller  lioTn  the  king 


bvour  he  did  npecl  'rom  the  Spuurd*  vu  the 

the  preuni  day  to  give  «  more  decoroui  iccounl 
of  the  introduction  of  a  forrign  miniiter.     The 


-1:  rccoriled  o^amu  ]- Ihin  periupi  of  any  piinfc  i 
id  yei.  luch  it  the  de)u»on  of  that  medium  by 
hiizh  the  popular  e^  Kct  rbin^  in  this  world, 

hive  entered  more  UrgEty  on  thii  lubject  in  ad 
Inquiry  of  the  htenry  ana  poUlical  character  of 


imei,  and  oihildl  > 
and  ioid  "  by  the 
>eople  ol  England, 


Spain ;  declaring  the  itate  o(  England,  &c.    The 
■U^  of  Bcrgrn-ap-<^DDm.  By  an  ryv-witn«a. 


nibury,  and  of  the  cvertbi 
Periodical  papen 


let,  by  thE  Jeniit  1 


-   —■----    -'  -lit   gpanlih 


ongit  the  people  the  BCabmenQ  of  loyalty  or 
clbon,  according  ai  (hetr  author!  were  dlipoaed. 
tt  Htjlxii,  in  the  preface  Id  hb  Cotnugr,  ' ' 


Scoti'  Doire  "  opposed  to 

dnced  keener  titlo :  "  Heraclilu  rideni "  found  an 

Weekly  Diicovercr"  wai  thortly  □ 

nicut"  wai  grappled  by  "  Mercuriia , 

fully  laihiug  all  Seoun,  Mercuriia,  *tm,  Spio^ 
and  Dihrn."  Under  all  1he«e  namei  papen  had 
appeared,  but  a  Mercury 

writer  were  generally  tl 

Mercuriei,  which,  were  t 


',  aikd  echoing  to  the  farthnt  endi  ol 
'  mindt  of  men  more  at  i^arUnce,  in- 
mcr  edge  to  vat  tharpneia   of  civU 


E,i" 


Anthony  Wood,  from  college  h( 

an  under  clerk  in  Gray-i  Inn ; 
phyiie  and  practiied  cbcmiitry  ^ 

a  captain,  and  in  tbe  vorda  ol ,.,-,-^-j, 

"  Bttiiu  with  the  rout  iod  acuin  of  the  people,  he 
made  them  weekly  iport  bj  railing  al  all  that  wia 
Doble,  in  hit  Imelligcnce,  called  Herciiiiw  Britan- 
lucua,  wherein  his  endcarouttveFe  10  lacrilice  the 

He  iooD  became  popular,  aiid  war  ^-^ —  — '— 
the  name  of  Captain  Needham  of  G 


•l_i^Baa^Bkd«_ 


TlifALS  AM)  PROOFS  OF  GUILT  IN  SUPERSTITIOUS  AGES, 


rim  Praginaticuit,"   and   galled  the  pr»b>ierians  I 
viith  lih  viit  and  quips.     Some  time  after,  when  j 
tiic  popular  party  prcvaileil,  he  was  rtill  further  en- 1 
lightened,  and  was  got  over  by  Pre^dent  Bradshaw, 
as  easily  a$  by  Charles  I.     Our  Mercurial  vrritcr ' 
became  once  more  a  vinilent  presbyterian,  and  i 
bslied  the  r()yali»t»  outrageously  in  his  "  Mercurius 
Poliiicus  ;"  at  length  on  the  return  of  Charles  II. 
being  now  conscious,  sax  s  our  tri.-nd  Anthony,  that 
he  might  lie  in  danger  of' the  halter,  once  more  he  is 
said  to  have  t)e<l  into  Holland,  waiting  for  an  act  of 
oblivion.     Kor  money  given  to  a  liungr>-  courtier, 
Needham  obtained  hi»  pardon  under  the  great  seal. 
He   latterly   practised  as  a   physician   among  his 
party,  but  lived  universally  hated  by  the  royalists, 
and  now  only  committed  harmless  treasons  with 
the  College  of  Physicians,  on  whom  he  poured  all 
that   gall   and    vinegar    which    the    government 
had  suppre»ed  from  flowing  through  its  natural 
channel. 

'I  he  royalists  were  not  without  their  Needham 
in  the  prompt  activity  of  Sir  John  Birkenhead.  In 
bullooner) ,  keenness,  and  boldness,  having  been 
fretjuentl\  imprisoned,  he  was  not  inferior  nor  w.'w 
he  at  times  less  an  adventurer.     His  "  Mercurius 
Aulicus  "  was  tlcvoted  to  the  court,  then  at  Oxford. 
But  he  was  the  fertile  parent  of  numerous  political 
pamphlets,  which  appear  to  abound  in  banter,  wit, 
and   s;ttire.     He   had   a   promptness  to  sci/.e  on 
cver>    tem|M)rar)'  circumstance,  and   a  fiicilitv  in 
execution.     His  "  Paul's  Church  Yard  "  is  a  ban- 
tering  pamphlet,    containing    fictitious   titles    of 
l>ooksand  actsof  parhament,  reflecting  on  the  mad 
reformcn  of  these  times.     One  of  his  poems  is  en- 
titled **7hiJoli,"  l)eing  written  on  the  Protector 
having  fallen  otf  his  ow  n  coach-l)ox :   Cromwell 
had  received  a  present  from  the  German  Count . 
Oldenburgh,  of  six  (German  horses,  and  attempted  I 
to  drive  thetn  himself  in   Hyde  Park,  when  this 
great  noliii-al  Phaeton  mot  the  accident,  of  which 
Sir  John  Birkenhead  was  not  slow  to  comprehend 
the  benefit,  and  hints  how  unfortunately  for  the 
country  it  turned  out !     Sir  John  w  .is  during  the 
dominion  ("1  CromwtU  an  author  by  profe%sion. 
Aft(.r   \aiious    impri^M■,l'.m■.•nt■^    lor    liii    m..j^st)'s 
c.-.u  e,   »a>^   the    v^nvr..lL-   biMini  n   <f    Hn,li  h 
liicT.i'u'e,  alrenly  qiut^.l,  "  lu-  li\cd  by  his  wits, . 
i!)  h  1;  iii,^  \<  iiii,^  l:<  ntUnun  cut  at  d«.-.td  hits  in 
m.ikin^  poiin,  sonc,  ^"d  k\  istles  on  .tud  to  their  , 
mistrcses  ;  as  .dso  in  translating,  and  other  petite 
empUnments."     He  lived  Imwever  after  the  Re- 1 
storation  tob,.comeone  ol  the  master*  of  requests, ' 
with  a  sal.ir)  of  jcco/.  a  year.     But  he  showed  the  < 
baseness  of  his  vjiTit    v.ys  Antlu)ny),  by  slightmg  I 
those    who    had    been     liis    benefactont    in    his ; 
necexsitics. 

Sir  /<o;,r  L'Estuirf^e  among  his  rivals  was 
esteemed  .is  the  njo^t  perfect  model  of  {political  I 
writing.  'I  li ••  tciuiKr  of  the  man  was  faitious, ' 
and  the  ci  tnpo-iin,ns  of  the  author  seem  to  us 
toarse,  ><-t  I  su^pl.■i  t  they  contain  much  idiomatic 
expre«'M«.n.  His  .>:M)p'»  Fal>le9  are  a  curious 
siKvimtn  i>\  f.imiliar  style.  Queen  Mar\-  showed  a 
due  contempt  of  him  after  the  Revolution,  by  ihb 
anagram :  ^„^,^^  L'Eslrange, 

Lye  stranf^e  Rogtr  I 

Such  were  the  three  patriarchs  of  newspapers. 
De  Saint  Foix,  in  h>««  curious  Rtsau  hutouques  sur 


Paris,  gives  the  origin  of  newspapers  to  Fnnce. 
Kenaudot,  a  physician  at  Paris,  to  unuae  hb 
patients  was  a  great  collector  of  news;  and  he 
found  by  these  means  that  he  was  more  uaaAlt 
after  than  his  more  learned  brethren.  But  as  tbc 
seasons  were  not  aJwa>-s  sickly,  and  he  b^d  manr 
hours  not  occupied  by  his  patients,  be  reflectei^ 
aftcT  several  yean  of  ahsiduity  fpvcn  up  to  this 
singular  employment,  that  he  might  turn  it  to  a 
better  account,  by  giving  e%-er>- week  to  his  patients, 
who  in  this  case' were  the  public  at  large,  soot 
fugitive  sheets  which  should  contain  the  news  of 
\arious  countries.  He  obtained  a  privilege  forthtt 
purpose  in  163a. 

At  the  Kc-storntion  the  proceedings  of  parliament 
were  interdicted  to  be  published,  unless  bv  an- 
thority ;  and  the  first  daily  paper  after  the  txxo- 
lution  took  the  popular  title  of  **  The  Orange  In- 
telligencer." 

In  the  reign  of  Queen  jinne,  there  was  but  one 
daily  paper :  the  others  were  weekly.  Some  at- 
tempted to  introduce  literar>' subjects,  and  othcn 
topi.'H  of  a  more  general  speculation.  Sir  Richard 
Steele  formed  the  plan  of  his  TatUr.  He  designed 
it  to  embrace  the  three  provinces,  of  manners  and 
morals,  of  literature,  and  of  politics.  The  public 
were  to  be  conducted  insensibly  into  so  different  a 
track  from  that  to  which  they  had  been  nitherto 
accustomed.  Hence  politics  were  admitted  into 
his  paper.  But  it  remained  for  the  chaster  genius 
of  .Madison  to  banish  this  painful  topic  from  his 
elegant  pages.  'I  he  writer  in  polite  letters  felt 
himself  degraded  by  sinking  into  the  diurnal  nar- 
rator of  political  events,  which  so  frequently  origi- 
nate in  rumoun»aiul  party  fiction.  From  this  time, 
new  spapers  and  t>eriodical  literature  became  dittinct 
works — at  present,  there  seems  to  be  an  attempt 
to  revive  this  union  ;  it  is  a  retrograde  step  for  the 
independent  digtiity  of  literature. 


TRIALS  AND  PROOFS  OF  GUILT  IN 
SUPERSTI'IIOUS  AGES. 

The  stranee  trials  to  which  those  suspected  of 
guilt  uere  put  in  I'.ie  midcle  a(;es,  conducted  with 
m  my  tle\oul  ctrenujiiie^,  liy  the  miniMert  of  re- 
liyion,  were  pron<.unccd  to  be  the  juJi^mcntt  qf 
(.0./  /  The  ordeal  con.sisted  of  various  kinds : 
walking  bliiidlold  amidst  burning  ploughshares; 
passing  through  fires ;  holding  in  the  hand  a  red- 
hot  bar ;  and  plunging  the  arm  into  Iwilinc  water : 
the  iH)pulnr  allirmation — "  I  w  ill  put  my  hand  in 
the  (ire  to  confirm  this,"  appears  to  be  derived 
from  this  sole  custom  of  our  rude  ancestors. 
Challenging  the  accuser  to  single  comliat,  when 
frequently  the  stoute»t  champion  was  allowed  to 
supply  their  place ;  swallowing  a  morsel  of  conse- 
crated bre.id,  sinking  or  swimming  in  a  river  for 
witchcraft ;  or  weighing  a  witch  ;  stretching  out 
the  arms  t>efore  the  cross,  till  the  champion  soonest 
wearied  dropped  his  arms,  and  lost  his  estate,  which 
WAS  decided  by  this  ver\-  short  chancer)'  suit,  called 
the  judicium  cruets.  Tne  bishop  of  Paris  and  the 
abtxit  of  St.  Denis  disputed  about  the  patronage  of 
a  monaster}' :  Pepin  the  Short,  not  being  able  to 
decide  on  their  confused  claims,  decreed  one  of 
these  judgments  of  God,  that  of  the  Cross.    The 


TRIALS  AND  PROOFS  OF  GUFLT  IS  SUPERSTITIOOS  AGES. 


ippeared  in  Ihe  chipel,  when  Ibry  jireKhnl 

MHvi^  more  4lcvout  than  the  nob  of  Ihc  prcKnl 
d^,  but  Hill  tlie  Riab,  vcre  piouily  utcntin,  bul 
I}£IU4,  however,  now  ftw  one  mm,  now  for  the 
other,  mil  crilicalJ]-  wiicbed  the  lUghtnt  motion 
of  ibe  tmt.  The  bohop*)  nun  wu  lint  irinl  :— 
be  let  hli  unn  till,  and  mineil  hii  patroo'i  cisK 
Ibr  ever.  Though  lometima  thae  trials  might  be 
eluded  by  the  utilice  of  the  piiefl,nunieroiiiwere 
the  inoocent  viciimi  who  luiqnatioiubiy  lufleted 
in  these  lupeTstilious  praf  tire*. 

From  the  tenth  lotbetweinh  ceararv  the*  were 
very  common.  Hildeberl,  biAop  of  Mani,  being 
acciued  of  high  tieiiaDD  by  our  William  hufo^, 
wa»  prewed  to  undergo  one  of  there  liiili ;  when 
Ivei,  biibop  of  ChartRi,  convinced  him  that  they 
were  ngiint  Ibe  canoni  of  the  conUitulinni  of  Ibe 

Jr/niilm,  ill  Uamtntiiim  pfribri. 

tefuicd  to  prenenliboneUtheViiconnl  ofToun. 
which  the  ^Konnt  claimed  in  right  of  bia  lord- 
abip,  whenn-cr  an  ibbot  tirtt  took  pooeislon  o1 


:  bul.  reflecting  that  theie 


he  V'"V^  «>  f' 

pended  wbolly  on  the  ikill  or  vigour  of  I 
Hiy,  aiHl  could  therefore  afford  no  Bubfltai 
of  the  ei|niEy  of  his  claimi  be  propoicd  to  compro- 

racteriiei  the  timn ;  he  waived  hii  cMm,  on  con- 
dition that  Ihe  abbot  ihould  not  forset  to  mention 

At  the  nmni  appeared  to  Ihe  abbot,  in  compari- 
»n  with  Ibe  AfTH,  of  little  or  no  value,  he  accepted 
the  propovl. 

was  not  hied  :  it  wal  a  qneilian,  w^edleT  the  saia 
olaunou^I  ta  be  n.'ckuned  among  the  children 
of  the  iunily  ;  and  nccccd  equally  wilb  their 
unclea,  if  tbeir  fathen  bwiened  lo  die  while  their 
gnndfathen  lUTvlved.    Tbb  p<riiit  was  decided  by 


Ewai  decided 
fbe  "champion  in  beh 
I  represent  their  decev 


decree  that  they  ihouId  thence- 


a  perpetual  decree  that  they  ihould  ' 


:.r=?!j 


niehtj,  I 


If  two  ueighboura,  aay  the  ( 
bert,  dispute  retpedldg  the  i»uuu«ii<.>  u<  «u^ii 
poBoiani,  lei  a  piece  ol  turf  of  Ibe  conlened  land 
be  dug  up  by  the  judge,  and  brought  by  him  into 
die  conrt,  and  the  two  parlies  shall  touch  it  with 
the  point!  of  (hdr  iwotds  calling 

and  let  riclnty  decide  on  their  nght' 


the  iistf,  they  placed  a 


ei  of  Dago- 


In  their 


:  lime  in  piofound  tilente^  iKlbre  they  began 

'-  EJlis,  in  his  elei^nt  preface  to  Way's 
aui,  shows  bow  faillifuUy  the  manners  nf  the 
le  painted  in  theae  ancient  tales,  by  obsei\ing 
udicial  combat  intmluced  by  a  writer  of  the 

:  as  challenging  Jesus  ChiW  to  linrt'  rcpwiul, 
mother  who  d^cribet  Ihe  person  who  pierced 
ide  of  cbiisl  laahfiigtiiiifhojouatavikthJfiui. 
diilai  combat  appears  to  have  been  pracliBcd 
ic  Jews,  whcnevei  Ibe  rabbins  had  to  decide 
dispute  about  properly  between  Iwo  panics. 


•nlidence  and  strength  to  the  rightful  possessor, 
bis  appears  in  the  recent  sermon  of  a  rabbin.  It 
iy,lioweveT,  be  more  philosophical  lo  obscr^-e 


In  these  limes  Ibose  who  wne  accused  of  nb- 
iry  were  pnt  to  trial  by  a  piece  of  barley.bread, 
I  which  the  mass  had  been  said ;  and  if  Ihey 
uld  Dot  swallow  it,  they  were  declared  guilt)-. 
Ills  mode  of  trial  was  improved  by  adding  to 
e  irtoA  a  lUce  of  ituttit  aibd  audi  was  thdr 


lidicuhniB  triab,  that  they  were  very  partlculir  in 
Ihb  holy  tnii(.and  thriii  called  the  arimi.  The 
bread  was  to  be  of  unleavened  barley,  and  the 


it  was  a  singular  mlsfurtune. 

Amongst  Ibe  prtroh  of  gnilt  In  superstilious  a^ea 
was  that  of  the  Utnlinj;  Zf  *  ctrpit.    11  a  pennn 

approach  of  the  mxirdcrcr  the  blood  gushed  dui  hi 

If  the  tflditest  change  was  ofwervable  in  the  eyes, 
the  mouth,  feet,  or  hands  of  the  corpse,  the  mun 


in  Ellwand,  and  is  still  looked  on  in  son 

andbalUds  arc  laboured  Into  pathos  t^  dwetlin 

Robertson  observes  Ihal  all  Ibese  absurd  imtitt 

age   believing   Ihe  legendary  hi^cries  of  then 


In  Ihe 


63 


rXQ  UrSTTTON, 


of  councils ;  they  were  greedily  swallowed  by  the 
populace ;  and  whoever  believed  that  the  Supreme 
Being  had  intLrpo<«ed  miraculously  on  thonc  trivial 
occaMons  mentioned  in  legends,  could  not  but 
expect  his  intcr\ention  in  matters  of  greater  im- 
portance when  solemnly  referred  to  his  decision. 
Besides  this  ingenious  remark,  the  fact  is,  that 
these  customs  were  a  substitute  for  written  laws, 
which  that  barbarous  period  had  not ;  and  as  no 
socictj'  can  exist  without  la'u's,  the  ignorance  of 
the  people  had  recourse  to  these  customs^  which, 
bad  and  absurd  as  they  were,  served  to  close  con- 
trovcr>ics  which  might  have  given  birth  to  more 
destructive  practices.  OrdeaU  are  in  tnith  the 
rude  law*  ol  a  b.irbarnus  people  who  have  not  yet 
obtained  a  written  code,  ami  not  advanced  enough 
in  civilization  to  enter  into  the  retined  inquiries, 
the  subtile  di^tinctions,  and  elaborate  investiga- 
tions which  a  court  of  law  demands. 

We  may  suppose  that  these  rirdeals  owe  their 
oriuin  to  that  one  of  Moses,  called  the  "  Waters  of 
Jealousy."  The  Greeks  likewise  had  ordeals,  for 
in  the  Antigonus  of  Sophocles,  the  soldiers  otler  to 
prove  their  innocence  by  handling  red-hot  iron, 
and  walking  between  fires.  One  cannot  but  smile 
at  the  whimMcal  ordeals  ot  the  Siamese.  Among 
other  practices  to  discover  the  justice  of  a  cause, 
civil  or  criminal,  they  are  particularly  attached  to 
using  certain  consecrated  purgative  pills,  which 
they  make  the  contending  parties  swallow.  He 
who  relair.s  them  longest  gains  his  cause !  The 
practice  of  giving  Indians  a  consecrated  grain  of 
rice  to  swallow  is  kno^^'n  to  discover  the  thief,  in 
any  company,  by  the  contortions  and  dismay 
evident  on  the  countenance  of  the  real  thief. 

But  to  return  to  the  middle  ages. — They  were 
acquainted  in  those  times  with  secrets  to  pa.vs  un- 
hurt these  singular  trials.  Voltaire  mentions  one 
for  undergoing  the  ordeal  of  boiling  water.  Our 
late  travellers  in  the  East  have  confirmed  this 
statement.  TTie  Mevleheh  dcrvises  can  hold  red- 
hot  iron  between  their  teeth.  Such  artifices  have 
been  often  publicly  exhibited  at  Paris  and  London. 
Mr.  Sharon  Turner  obser\*cs  on  the  ordeal  of  the 
Anglo-Saxons,  that  the  hand  w^s  not  to  be  imme- 
diately inspected,  and  was  left  to  the  chance  oi'  a 
good  constitution  to  be  so  far  healed  during  three 
aa>-s  (the  time  they  re()uired  to  l>e  bound  up  and 
sealed,  before  it  was  examined)  as  to  discover 
those  appearances  when  inspected,  which  were 
allowed  to  be  satisfactor>'.  Tliere  was  likewise 
much  preparatory  training,  suggested  by  the  more 
experienced  ;  besides  the  accused  had  an  opportu- 
nity of  goinif  alone  into  the  churchy  and  making 
terms  with  the  priest.  The  few  spectators  were 
alwavs  distant ;  and  cold  iron,  &c.,  might  be 
substituted,  and  the  fire  diminbhed  at  the  mo- 
ment, &c. 

Doubtlen  they  possessed  these  secrets  and  medi- 
caments, whii.  h  they  had  at  hand,  to  pass  through 
these  trials  in  perfect  security.  Camerarius,  in  his 
"Hor«  Suljscecivac,"  gives'an  anecdote  of  these 
times  which  may  serve  to  show  their  readiness. 
A  ri\'aLship  existed  between  the  Austin-friars  and 
the  Jesuits.  The  father-general  of  the  Austin- 
friars  was  dining  vnt*^  *^'*  Jesuits ;  and  when  the 
table  was  removed,  u»  entered  into  a  formal  dis- 
course of  the  superiority  of  the  monastic  order, 
and  charged  the  Jesuits,  in  unqnalitied  terms,  with 


aivumlng  the  title  of  **  fntres,"  while  they  held 
not  the  three  vows,  which  other  monks  were 
obliged  to  consider  as  sacred  and  binding.  Hie 
general  of  the  Austin-friars  was  very  eloouent  and 
very  authoritative : — and  the  superior  of  the  Jesuali 
was  very  unlearned,  but  not  half  a  ibol. 

He  did  not  care  to  enter  the  list  of  controrerqr 
with  the  Austin-friar,  but  arrested  bis  triumph  1^ 
asking  him  if  he  would  see  one  of  his  frian,  who 
pretended  to  be  nothing  more  than  a  Jesuit,  and 
one  of  the  Austin-friars  who  religiously  perforated 
the  aforesaid  three  vows,  show  instantly  which  of 
them  would  be  the  readier  to  obey  his  superiors? 
The  Aastin-friar  consented.  Tite  Jesuit  then  tare- 
ing  to  one  of  his  brothers,  the  holy  friar  Marl;,  who 
was  waiting  on  them,  said,  "  Brother  Mark,  our 
companions  are  cold.  I  command  you,  in  virtue 
of  the  holy  obedience  you  have  sworn  to  me,  to 
bring  here  instantly  out'of  the  kitchen-fire,  and  in 
your  hands,  some' burning  coals,  that  they  mar 
warm  themselves  over  your  hands."  Father  Mark 
instantly  obevs,  and  to  the  astonishment  of  the 
Austin-friars,  brought  in  his  hands  a  supply  of  red 
burning  coals,  and  held  them  to  whoever  chose  to 
warm  himself;  and  at  the  command  of  his  supe- 
rior returned  them  to  the  kitchen-hearth.  The 
general  of  the  Austin-friars,  with  the  rest  of  his 
brotherhood,  stood  amazed;  he  looked  wistfully 
on  one  of  his  monks,  as  if  he  wished  to  command 
him  to  do  the  like.  But  the  Austin  monk,  who 
perfectly  understood  him,  and  saw  this  was  not  a 
time  to  he»tate,  observed, — "  Reverend  father, 
forbear,  and  do  not  command  me  to  tempt  God  I 
I  am  ready  to  fetch  you  tire  in  a  chafing-dish,  but 
not  ki  my  bare  h.^mls,"  The  triumph  of  the  Je- 
suits was  complete ;  aid  it  b  not  necessary  to  add, 
that  the  miracle  was  noised  about,  and  that  the 
Austin-friars  could  never  account  for  it,  notwith- 
standing their  »trict  performance  of  the  three  tows  ! 


INQUISITION. 

Innocent  the  T^urd,  a  pope  as  enterprising  as 
he  was  successful  in  his  enterprises,  having  sent 
Dominic  with  some  mis;«ionaries  into  Languedoc, 
these  men  so  irritated  the  heretics  they  were  sent 
to  convert,  that  most  of  them  were  assassinated 
at  Toulouse  in  the  year  laoo.  He  called  in  the  aid 
of  temporal  arms,  and  published  against  them  a 
crusade,  granting,  as  Wits  usual  with  the  popes  on 
similar  occasions,  all  kinds  of  indulgences  and 
pardons  to  those  who  should  arm  against  these 
Mahometans,  so  he  stv  led  these  unfortunate  men. 
Once  all  were  Turks'  when  they  were  not  Catho- 
lics \  Raymond,  Count  of  Toulouse,  was  con- 
strained to  submit.  The  inhabitants  were  pastsed 
on  the  edge  of  the  sword,  without  distinction  of 
age  or  sex.  It  was  then  he  established  that  scour]ge 
of  Europe,  The  Inuuisition  :  for  having  con- 
sidered that  though  all  might  be  compelled  to 
submit  by  arms,  numbers  might  remain  who 
would  profess  p.irticular  dogmas,  he  established 
thb  sanguinary-  tribunal  solely  to  in.spcct  into  all 
families,  and  i'nuv ire  concerning  all  persons  who 
they  imagined  were  unfriendly  to  the  intcTcsts  of 
Rome.  Dominic  did  so  much  by  his  persecuting 
inquiries,  that  he  firmly  established  the  inqubition 
at  Toulouse. 


IXQUISITION. 


CDBqunnl  CiiiuMti.  uhI  hid  ctpcUed  (roin  Ibc 
SpiDlili  KilRU  multltudn  at  unlonuiute  Moon. 
A  few  rcmuKd,  irboni,  with  the  Jen.  be  com- 
teiWA  to  become  CInhtiiiH ;  thcr  at  Icul  usDined 
the  UBie ;  bDi  it  irn  ml)  knomo  Ibu  both  thev 
ToUom  lutunll)'  rc^pectvd  tbeir  Mm  futh,  ntbcr 
thin  that  af  thE  Chiiitiaiu.    Thii  ran  w  (Rcr- 

tbnnLDjj  tnArriagcn,  the  blood  of  Ibe  Hidaleo  wan 
conwlLTcd  lq  Inw  tta  purily  bp  iiiinj[Unj|  with  tui:h 

I'l  fliucmada  pRtmdrd  that  thh  AirimuliUoii 
would  mwitl)'  huit  the  inlcmti  of  tlK  holji  reli- 
■Ion.  The  <|un:n  listened  with  respeclTul  lUlTi- 
•lenceto  her  (onlmar  i  aniljil  leiiRIb  pined  oter 

in  liis  zeil  (nr  Ibe  holr  Kal.  In  the  space  of  Inui- 
teen  fean  that  he  cxetrixd  tlxe  office  of  chief  Id- 
qui^hor^  n  said  lo  have  proiecuteJ  near  eigbty 


'  A  ircncral  jei 
i  all  laoki  ut 


.  BiDlhen  WETS  afnid  of  brolhen, 
duMieD." 

n  and  the  leeUnp  oF  ooe  impri- 
elLi  of  the  inqdiidllon  are  Corcibly 
bin.  a  mild,  and  meek,  and  leaned 
iniroTeny  with  Limlxirch  l<  well 
i  he  ew-aped  Itnm  ^In  he  took 
»l,  wai  lircumclwd,  and  died  a 


'  tnckwU  in  Ihii  di 


S^, 


ben  Jn  Ihh  dunt, 

cpuld  ini'ent  vaa  meti^ynea]  dciputatiDik«, 

wji»  at  once  opponenl,  respondent,  and 

In  the  raihednl  at  jianj^ma  !•  the 
famom  inqubJlor :  all  plllHin  lunonnU  i 
tn  etch  b  ehalncd  a  Moof»  aa  preparat  ^ 
bpinf;  burnt.  On  thb  SI.  Folji  incmionilj  ob- 
•erm,  "If  ever  the  Jack  Keteh  of  anr  counlrr 
thnnld  be  rich  enough  lo  hare  a  spLcndid  lanib» 
lliii  nr^chr  lem  as  an  etcctlent  model.'* 

The  iw]ui-ltk>n,  w  Bayle  infonm  u%  puniihed 
hei^rtici  by  fin,  lo  elvde  the  maxim,  Kcelepa  nvn 
Bn-it  tttmj^iiiBtrni  for  burning  a  man,  *ay  Ihey, 


ajs 


k  hii  ixmei !    Reli^n 

n  dapotlc  order  ma 
ae  perhapa  aurpriw  Ibe 
idon  in  a  ^lecch  urged 

.....    .,w-„^  .u..„.n.„f  PenntheQ 

idjD.  who  wuaciiuiltedby  tbejnrr,  wli.  ..  . 
Ikicldvlohavepnirokedtbeuklrecorder.  "Magna 
r&irin,"  wiltea  the  pnbcer  lo  the  trial, "  wilh  the 

e .'■■    It  appeanlhattheiury.aner  being  kept 


in  the  en 


Ih  lineil  and  fr 

)□  of  the  policy  and  pindenri 


netUniE  tih  vnl*  Iht  SpaniiM  jRfiiirlJloit 
EnitaitiL'*    Tbu  it  vilJ  erer  be,  while  botli  , 
tie^  atrug^ing  for  Ihe  pre-eminence,  nub  to  the 
iharp  extremity  of  thinjfi,  and  annihilate  Ihetr — 
■-■' — ■jalaace  of  Ihe  cDnilinilion.    Bui  the  ado] 
of  Lord  Ershkiae  must  ever  be  that  of  ei 

ate  ai  the  year  i^Ar,  Oabritl  Malagrida 
uiof  terenlyiWaa  burnt  by  these  eringc] 


t\c  Imagiiwd,  lor  hia  hatting  heen  coocemet 
ccHupiracx  auainvt  the  kins  of  ftirtn^l- 
thcr  charse  it  laid  lo  him  In  thh  trial  but  tha 
aving  indnhnl  certain  heielical  nolion^  wli 
ny  other  tilhunil  hut  Ihal  of  Ihe  tnquiiil 

bnatkal  Did  man.     will  paterily  bciieie  I 
1  the  eighteenth  century  an  aced  risloniry 
:4  to  the  atake  lor  having  laid,  amon^  oi 
htraraganciea,  thai  "The  boiy  Virgin   hai.^.^ 
DDimandcd  him  in  wriie  the  IHe  of  Anti-Chriit. 
old  hbn  that  he.  Halagiida.  w»  a  accond  John. 
'   ir  than  Jolin  the  EtmRelM ;  th.it 


laitiboui.-      ' 
i^r^*^ 


a  the  hk&mai  furiet." 

remembrance  a  jIbth  tut  bad  been 
laugni  ro  cell  Ihe  upots  upon  tarda,  the  hour  nl  the 
dav,  flee,  by  flgnillcant  tokeni,  waa,  logcllier  with 

hii  nrHT.put  inlo  the  in<iiiiiilionlbc  ^alAof  ■< 

dealing  with  the  devil  i  A  nun  of  Ictlen  dc .  . 
that,  luving  ^len  inlo  their  handi,  nothing  per- 
^ncd  him  w  mndi  aatiie  ignnranceof  Uie  in- 

ikiubtlul  whether  they  bad  lead  ei-en  tbeSciipIuni 
One  of  the  matt  Interetting  anecdotct  reialin 
to  the  terrible  luquisilicm,  eiempiih  iui  how  Ih 

to  confew  trimea  lbeylM»e  not  Ixen  guilty  of, 
was  related  to  me  by  a  Portuguese  eenlkmar 
A  nobleman  in  Liahon  having  heard  th 
phyucian  and  friend  was  imprisoned  >>y  the  i 
tition.  under  ibe  alale  pretext  of  Jud^sn 
drcsan  a  letter  to  one  of  ihem  tn  request  hi: 


aiXGULAltlTTES  OF  VAStOUS  XATfOXS  IX  TUFJR  REPASTS. 


niOtTlllsl  COdliEllCfl  CI 


r)lhioc 


-„.,n,  UKHfacT  KUDn   nijqr  be  alte^  fol   

mimrhroptcil  Rpat,   Thcjr  never  viU  eat  wilh 
invoiK  wfaaii  inieiior  to  Ibem  in  bitlh.in  tkcbn. 


ordiRd  bii  peoiile  to  pnt  on  the  Inquiiitor^  held 
•  leil-hot  hcUiKI,  whkb  to  bn  ulonithnicnl,  in 
ilnwin^  uide  ■  screen,  he  liefaetd  ^a/vriw  In  « 
•nuU  fdnufe.  At  the  liqhl  of  Ihh  new  imtm- 
mnl  n(  lonun, "  Luke*!  iioo  crown."  the  nmnk 

The  nnMcman  then  obscrral, "  !«e  now  the  enor- 
mity of  joui  DiMBcr  of  pmneding  iriib  nahippy 
HKn !  My  poor  phyiLcluii  like  you,  hu  ctHilesed 
Jadaifm  ;  but  with  thii  dillemcc»  oair  tormeBti 
hlie  forced  Ihul  fioni  him,  which  Ecu  done  bu 

The  incpiidtkni  ba  not  biled  of  tecdirlnii  iti 
doe  pn'un.  Macvdn,  a  Portnencse  Jewit,  han 
ditcovercd  the  "Ori^n  of  tlbc  taquititiTC'  in  (lie 
termtriai  PsAfhie,  and  prcfnineA  In  jilkpe,  tlul 
Cod  wa>  ihe  tint  wbo  besan  the  funclinni  ot  an 
nif«vjj«r  orer  Ciin  and  the  workmen  of  BabcL  \ 
Macedo,  however*  it  not  90  dreaming  a  pcrhmige 
ai  he  appear* ;  fM  be  nbtiined  a  pio^Aor^  chjiir 

juain^  Ibc  pope,  which  were  pnbUsbcd  br  (lie 
nile  of  "  Tbe  Litemy  RoirlnEt  o(  the  I  Jon  al  St. 
Mark  1"  be^dei  be  ii  the  author  of  lof  diHetcnt 

Macedn  piaiicd   ihe  Inqui 


sss? 

I«.nH  IhU, 

not'lOrbca''  e>Dl 
ofnapkio,! 

Honravne). 
(inginlbepol 

The  lihts  oC  Ibe  t1.      . 
beanlifnl  taniih,  and  are  cnreted  with  ulk  ri 
peti  very  clcgintly  -Knked.    TTiev  do  not  mil 

two  Hllle  iroiy  or  ebnuj'  Micki,  which' be  bandl 

The  Otihkleim.  who  iie  ■ilnnll;'  HKiabI 

from  eichotber.      At  Ibe  bnnr  o 


quinilon  in  Bjuin  and  PoTtugal  ii  aboi'ubcd— I 
In  hlMory  enlen  into  thai  of  Ihe  human  min 
and  the  DiMory  of  Ilic  inquisition  by  Litnbon 
tniulatcd  by  Chandler,  wim  a  tery  curioof  *'  I 


nlellenuai   worU,   wil 

^in  he  reitotcd,  10  keep  Spaii 


the  forereignty  of  Ibe 


they  draw  down  the  ckxlu  thai  •nve  a  blinds  ti 
Ihcii  windawi,  thai  they  may  ot  unohterved 
This  coifDm  probably  anxa  Arim  Ihe  uvagr,  ii 
early  period*  of  tociely,  concealing  himself  to  vat 
he  lean  that  another  with  aa  diarp  an  appetite 
bul  more  itrong  than  hjmfclf.  ihould  coive  anc 

craft  arc  alto  widely  fpmd  among  barhafiaiia 


;  diituKe  of  tw( 


Ihey  orifinallv  came.    I 


watcb  10  solicit  Ibem  to  ear,  bul  touches  nnthinc 
himself.  In  New  France,  he  wearies  bimaelf  with 
sin0ng,  to  divert  the  company  while  tbey  eat. 

when  civilitalion  adriocet,  men  wisli  10  ihon 
their  confidence  to  thrir  Mendi:  Ibey  treil  then 

(he  master  of  the  house,  to  Eirea  mark  of  bispolife- 

selves  at  bb  labk  with  UDdiMurbed  revelry. 

The  demoostrallons  of  friendship  in  >  rule 
■late  liare  a  s»'a|!e  and  Enaa  character,  which  it  is 
not  a  lllllc  cnrioDS  lo  Mmerve.  The  Tartars  puti 
a  man  by  the  ear  10  preia  him  to  drink,  and  they 

then  they  clap  their  unda  and  duce  hefbrc 


iioxAJicir.% 


T? 


ilir  «tiTi  ibr    be  rjlumtO  hom?,  *^"i   lo   hi^  mnu^,    "Vly 


at  B  vcU  B  oT  The  reput.     He  vomi 

>  ictDowLcdgc  hicmclf  ox'crcome,  bv  bq^iu  IOJHkw." — A^cfi 

if  cl«l)«  or  doio  I  for  bn  j  the  clieM-^.<)i 

e  MnBKn'tau  ttie  h|^  of  I     Tliii  appnn  Mill  rleiriT  by  the  snecilnte  taUl 


:h  iLpcuilf  on  the  tsnim 
(  nn  HmniH',  kiuii  Phdip 
ilJ  lie  uoijlit  III  >ul)n  ni 


n^ifgrf. 


bv  thai  mvjn*  Kot 
:idn,  there  it  a  HugiiLir 


in  the  nine  l  the  EjiI  <iI  SunkilJnl.  mininc 

aM  not  Kcepi  llic  inriiation  ol  him  nrhoin  be .  mitb  Ibe  Liitd  nt  I'lunv,  jml  lbs  kamiil  Cuk 
■o  bflnboincLv  Teirakd.  m  thtt  txv  Ibe  goat  \  nlfuhflm,  the  r<lilm  of  HorMX'.  Cunumrili-iin 
Ul  Dkc  inKwon  of  hit  cibio.  lill  he  lud  the  I  with  loo  much  (kill  iind  ton  much  iiUkuTily,  brj 
^a  Tetnmcfl  to  him  which  the  «her  hid  in '  k^  lanhJiip.    *'  The  bui  vjit  to  tnltcti  ii  hi 

-  -hi-  .-.^.,'..^,..  tosioin  A  cuhohn  reams ;  wilhnuE  any  rewonl.      Ctnny  alhnrefl   t*"***-i 

end^hip   14  wu|^l.      The!  bispardnD, wil 
■I  Ibe  eivcnic  of  Ibe  lira. '      In  the  Clitii 

»•  the  Hreniith  lo  nipport  pain  vttb  liim,  ao<t  |  A  Poliih  nuBunb  hJvlnK  qi^ned  hi>  cnm- 
f  he  it  cenemiH  cnou|;b  lo  ihare  wiih  him  mine  I  pinin»vrhca  h.'  wv.  huntingi.  Iiin  cnunk'ii  linmil 
urt  of  hi«  property.  u~hile  ihefUBt  i«  employefl :  him,  afev  dH>4  .(Iter,  in  a  irurfcet-plaee,  ditpui^eil 
ID  hit  neal,  he  coiilinuei  he^ttinfE  the  cahin  to  an !  u  a  borter,  4i1d  kntiinn  iiul  Ihc  nw  ul  Iti^ 
n^iippiiTtable  degree }  ami  for  a  laH  prmf  of  rbe'  fhonLdcnIur  a  few  peiKC.    At  \hi*  xhfy  itete  i<. 

..  ,j,j  ,|,„h,„,n,_  In  mart!    much  Hirprnnl,  »  they  •wi  ihnilntul  at  lint 

3re  dogp.    "rbt  hiHt  pav-e   nhrllier  ibe  ptUr  enuld   he  hh  Hujril}.     AI 
.  mwiiici  in  the  cnbiu  nf  the  .  i.-nntli  Ihvy  ii:ntaivd  tn  nprrq  their  iiHnplainli 
„. .  ,     nil  be  «ho«»,  Id  bii  lum.  vilb  what !  that  n  ffvax  a  per^iiuMe  ffaouid  ikbaae  hini-<lf  liy 
K  of  mniiude  he  can  defend  hii  fiiemi.    Ttw  -  hi  tile  4n  nnplniinciil.     Hia  mateity   hjtinx 

poHible  foT  Ihe  philowphvr  lo  aiidenniHll  men,  the  hi^  ahKh  1  iiniltvd  ii  bv  fir  beaiier 
.-.  .V i.i—.u ry  here:  the  «rei|ihiicit 


Ihrough  the  lai 


""a'SiL™ 

■vedth 

em  on  hut- 

cup  at  Ibe .  imder  wbicli  1  h 
nil  in  one .  lour  nliihK  Ihaa  I 

beKia  til  lire,  and  to  be  k 

u-ere  mwlnoa  lo  renin  m  nHn.  niuHubr 
Poihh  kinn,  vlio  timwled  tlin  pliiliHiphk 
mmiiir*  ami  Miirr,  when  they  pOacol  ilie  mpiK 
in  bii  haiHl,  eul:ilmcd,— "I  had  ralber  manaue  an 
•aF.'"  fhe  laiiUaliniC  loTIUneii  uf  iIk  Piilidi 
moDarchv  prewDI  texiTal  ol  Iheve  aBccdiHe^; 
tlKir  mooarcbi  appear  Id  hat«  (nquvuliy  been 
philomphcRi ;  a«l,  ai  Ibe  vorid  i*  imde,  an  ev- 
Rlh'nt  phikunphtr  pniei  lint  an  indiilcrvnl  king. 
INi'O  olHeT^-aiiDDa  on  kLn«  were  made  In  a 
connleT  with  great  luil'rfr  by  tiul  etperieiiced 
politii'ijn  the  liukc  uf  Alra.— "  iUnga  wbn  Mhti 
in  be  familiar  wMi  their  cnmpaiiiiwi  make  uie  ol 
iKfl  a  Uicy  dii  n(  viiivHi  tVy  Uke  orani^  to 
emrai'l theirinlce j  aDdwhenlbetarewelliuiked 
.    ..  , ,  _ Ifaeylhmwibem  avay.    Take  caielhe  kinK  dnei 

bad  prmco.      Oood  kiniii   dc<ire   it,  n   £pr .  not  rcMl  all  voor  l]i«ic^il> !  ntherwiw  he  will 
imagine,  csniiouei  thH  punn  paKtli'lan,  ih.1t  itaefr :  ihnm  you  awie  lo  ibr  haik  nt  hii  '  ~     * 

■^— :»i  jLppear  the  innre  iplE    ■■■'-■  -     ■    ■-  " 

illinE  ic  be  aUj^A  kluipmuit 


66 


OF  THE  TITLES  OF  ILLUSTBIOUS,  dx. 


of  the  pTati'<.t  of  all  vitisfactions,  eisy  and  unre- 
st'nfd  sovicty.  he  obscn-cd  that  this  was  an  ill- 
loundcd  notion.  "  Rcmi;  a  kini;  does  not  exclude 
:t  man  from  snih  society.  Great  kinijs  have  al- 
w.i>s  bci'n  vifi.il.  The  king  of  Prui<ia,  the  only 
gnat  kin;; at  present  ^this  was  the  cheat  Frederic  , 
is  very  w»  iil.  Charles  the  Second,  the  last  kinj; 
i.i  Fnilanil  wlio  w.is  a  man  of  parts,  was  ftO^ial ; 
our  Mcnn.s  and  tdwanh  were  ail  MHial." 

T  he  M;ir'jni!«  of  Halifax  in  his  character  of 
Charlo  II.  has  exhibited  a  lr,iit  in  the  Royal  cha- 
racter o|  .\  gcio<i-n:itiirird  mon.irch  ;  that  rrrfi/,  is 
suunfai'if^.  I  tnns^nJH'  this  lurious  ob-er^utiou, 
will.  1 1  intro<iuce>  lis  into  u  levee. 

"There  w. Is  .n  uiiuh  of  la/.ines.s  .as  of  love  in 
.dl  thrsL-  hturs  which  he  passetl  ainon'r-t  Ids  mis- 
tre-is-s,  who  sirvrd  onl\  tt>  tdl  up  hin  SL'raiilio, 
whdo  a  bcwiti  hini»  kind  of  pleasure,  calletl 
s.MNTEKi.Mi,  W.IS  the  sultaua  '{ueen  he  delighted 
in. 

"The  thinii  called  5.\inteui.\i;  isi  a  btroni»cr 
temptation  to  piiuces  th.ui  it  is  lo  others. —The 
IniuL;  ualied  with  inip<  rtuniiii's.  pursuid  from 
one  roum  to  innthcr  with  asking  tacc  ;  the  <li<- 
m-d  <i.und  of  iinre.iMinable  complaints  and  ill- 
grciuiuled  pretences;  the  deformity  of  fr.iud  ill- 
di^HUfsed :  -all  these  wnnld  make  any  man  nm 
away  Imm  them.  ;inil  I  used  to  think  it  was  the 
motive  l(^r  making  him  walk  so  last." 


OF  THK  TITLES  OF  ILI.n.-^TRlOIJ.S,  HIGH- 
NESS, AND  K.\l-KM.KNCK. 

TiiF.  title  of  illujirious  WHS  never  pven,  till  the 
reiijn  of  Constant ine,  but  lo  those  wh«:se  reputa- 
tion w.is  Hpleniiiii  in  arm«,  orin  letters.  Adulation 
h.i«l  not  yet  adopted  this  noble  word  into  her 
vocabulary.  Suetonius  compi!se«l  a  b(K>k  to  re- 
cord those  wlm  had  poss;*ssed  this  title -,  and,  as  it 
was  thin  bestowed,  a  nKMlerate  volume  wjs  suih- 
cicnt  to  cont.dn  their  names. 

In  the  time  of  C<»nstantine,  the  title  of  illustrious 
was  given  more  particnlarly  to  those  princes  who 
h.ul  disJingiMshed  themselves  in  war :  but  it  w.is 
not  continued  to  their  descen<lants.  At  length,  it 
beiame  very  common;  and  every  son  of  a  prin«.e 
W.IS  lUinttiouj.  It  IS  now  a  cunvenient  epithet  lor 
the  iKK-t. 

There  is  a  verv  pTopcr  distinction  to  be  mide 
between  the  epitfiets  of  iLi.rsTHU)i"8  and  i  amoi*!. 

Niceron  h.is  entitled  his  lalKirious  \ir»rk,  .\Jr- 
tnnirfs  pr.ur  str^rir  it  VUistotre  dis  UnmmtS  ll.l.r'-- 
rnr.s  <j/ir J /<]  RrpuHique  tiis  Uttrn.  The  epithet 
ii.i.rsTHiors  is  nlwaxs  nTeive<l  in  an  honourable 
sense;  \et  in  these  Memoirs  are  inserted  m.my 
authors  who  have  only  wTitten  with  the  design  of 
combating  religion  aiid  morality.  Sn«  h  writers  as 
Vanini,  Spinoza.  \\"<x»lston.  Toland.  &c.  had  been 
better  characterised  under  the  more  general  epithet 
of  J  \M()is  :  ffir  It  may  l>c  siul,  th.it  the  ii.i.rx- 
THiors  .ire  famotj!,  but  that  the  jamois  are  not 
alw.t\s  iLM'siPiiois.  In  the  r.ige  for  iiti.K)«  the 
ancient  l.iw\ers  in  Italy  w»re"not  saiistiril  by 
calling  kmv.s  ii.li"<thi;s  ;  thei  went  a  Mep  higher, 
and  would  liavc  empen»rs  to  l)c  fuptr-itlustttSt  a 
barb.irous  coin  i;;c  of  their  own. 

In  Spain,  they   pubhshed   a   book   of  tiiUs  for 


their  kinn,  as  well  as  for  the  Fortnguew;  bat 
Selden  tells  lu,  that  "  their  Ortttiat  and  giviof  if 
titles  grew  at  length,  throui^  the  adectaticB  if 
heapint;   great    attiibutcs   on    their    princes,  » 
such  an  insutTerable  forme,  that  a  rtmciiir  wa 
provided  aaainst   it."    I'his  remedy  ifi:tt  an  act 
published  by  Pliilip  III.  which  ordained  that  al 
the  Cortfsias,  a.s  they  termed  these  strange  phracs 
they  had  so  9er^  iUly  and  ridi  uh-usly  invtaicd, 
should  lie  reduceil  to  a  simple  subs:  ript ion,  "Tk 
the  king  our  lonl,"  leading  out  thos:  fantastjijl 
attributes  which  ever}'  secret.ir}'  had  tied  with  In 
predecesstirs  in  incre.xsing  th*.ir*numb-r. 

It  would  till  three  or  lour  of  the  prirsent  pags 
to  tr.tnvril)e  the  titK-»  and  attiibutcs cf  the  (ttw 
Signiur,  which  he  assumcn  in  a  letter  to  Henri  IT. 
Selden,  in  his  Titles  of  Houcur.  first  part,  p.  140, 
has  preser;ed  it.  This  "empiror  of  licicww 
empemni,"  as  he  styles  himself,  at  len-.ith  cof 
deMvntled  to  agree  with  the  Kniperor  ot  Gennaar. 
in  it)o(),  that  in  all  their  Kttert  and  iitstrunKv:* 
they  should  lie  only  styled  (•tthvr  and  jm;  tbe 
emperor  calling  the  ^ultan  his  Sfin ;  and  the  "iillaa 
the  em|K.nir,  in  regard  of  his  year*,  hi-t/j/Air. 

Formerly,  '<i\*  HouKtaie,  the  title  of  H»Ji}MU 
was  only  gi\en  to  kings ;  but  now  it  has  bccoiiK 
so  c<immon,  thai  all  the  great  house*  asMumcit. 
All  the  (ireat.  •>a\s  a  modern,  are  desirous  of  btinj; 
confounded  with  princes, and  are  rcadv  toneizeon 
the  pri\ileges  ol  royal  dignit>'.  We  have  alrradr 
come  to  htuhness.  i^e  pride  of  our  descendants 
I  inspect,  will  u<urp  that  of  mujeity. 

Ferdinand,  king  of   Arragon,  and    his   quen 
Isabella,  of  Castile,  were  only  treated  with  Ac 
title  of  hixhnnj.    Charles  was  the  tintt  who  lock 
that  of  majesty :    not  in    his  quality  of  kinjl  of 
Spain,  but  as  emperor.    St.  Foix  informs  us,  that 
kings  were  usually  addnssed  by  the  titles  ot  m*U 
illustrious,  or  your  serenity,  ox  ynur  gract :  hut  thai 
the  custom   ol   giving  them   that  of  majtsty  was 
only  established  by  Louis  XI.,  a  prince  the  Ica-I 
majestic  in  all  his  .ictions,  his  manners,  and  hn 
exterior — a  severe  mon.arch,  but  no  crdinjr>-  man, 
the  Tiberius  ot  France ;  whose  manner^  w-vrc  of 
the  mo<t  sordid  n^tiure: — in  public  audiences  he 
drcNsed   like  the  meanest  of  the  people,  and  af- 
tected  to  sit  on  an  old  broken  chair,  with  a  t^.lthr 
tiog  on  his  knees.    In  an  account  found  of  his 
household,  this  ttutjt'stic  prince  has  .1  ch.irgc  made 
him,  tf)r  twu  new  slec\e9  »ewi.d  un  one  of  his  old 
dciubhts. 

Formerly  kings  were  apostrophized  by  the  title 
ol  ynur  urate.  Henry  VIII.  was  the  first,  sajs 
Hous-.ue,  w ho  .-issumed  the  title  of  highness:  aD>l 
.tt  length  niajvsTu  It  was  l-rancis  I.  who  s,duled 
him  with  thi'k  l.ist  title,  in  thiir  interview  in  the 
>ear  icao,  though  he  c.dUd  himself  only  the  lint 
gentleman  in  his  kingdom  \ 

So  distinct  were  once  the  titles  of  highnrss  and 
exitlUiice,  that  wlu-n  Don  Juan,  the  brother  of 
Philip  II.,  was  permitted  to  take  up  the  latter  titi?, 
and  the  city  ol  Granada  s;iluted  him  by  the  title 
of  hijfhvus,  it  occasioned  such  serious  jealousy  at 
court,  that  h.ad  he  {>ersisted  in  it,  he  would  have 
Ikvu  coUiUmned  lor  treason. 

The  usual  title  of  c.rilinals.  about  1600,  wis 
sfif^notiu  lili-itttsjnna :  the  Duke  oi  Lerma,  the 
Spanish  minister  and  carilin^.l,  in  his  old  age, 
assumed   the   title  of  fxitlUr'Ct,i    iri'ir(ndn$im,». 


TITLES  OF  SOVF.REKSS,— ROYAL  DlriSlTIE!'. 


IIk  church  of  Rook  im 

IbiD  to  be  inied  the 
■t  ivl  the  cuJiuh 


uUed  wrt'mmi  wa  thro    •ccounini    a   highi  t '  Ihiiogh  rolumtBDiD.   IIk  mint  itiiktnn  one! 
baaoBT  IbiD  to  be  inied  the  mnimoii.    IMil  be    loccKign  oTtlK  unii-cnr,  »bnrb«dv  nliiml 

1  — . ■ 11-.^ diitiiiijuBbeil  b)- the   plhbcil » Ibe  nwnn  at  her  FknitiHir ;  irbiw 

I  eHtten  like  the  lumhcin  «n  i  i  klnii  xt  i|<iT 


n,  the  mdiT  <•  UI  •mile 


HCorMi 


iw  ilw  liilc  of  i^>jarM  on  the  I 


hKwtwlei  fnini  u' 


tofr  of  rn'km,  hj« 


lyjIjrtK™*' 


page*.    SrliU-n  tindkAtti*  (he  Tiglkt  of 


be  fuunil  tn  lii<  bivTlw}  liiiMeit  la  Ibn  n<JlL-<tHin  the  lutbnlk 
■miruii,  M  W»  .MIuuuHi.  '  the  Kuih'jn  tin 
nrliKli'd,  thn  anu  hut  the  :  ,(i<sl'.  In  ■  dei 
iml  vhll  the  title  oT  It^jh-  ,  onlliuir  ■Itilbul 
Hmnat"  of  Hrkk'n  n  ■  lahi>«  Vmik  n  ii 
ml  iH  the  IniBvil  (riher  I  IriKW.  euiviUnn  tl 

rAliulile  wmk  of  thh  nvat  Inniine  budi^  Ibe     . ..  , 

triffaat  to  thu  nmei  of  other  Viaf^  at  mm 
"^  1- —    --If  inont   nohk   imttuii  «nJ  iukL 


le  enpnwcil  Ibcir  nHiun  of  tbc  pure  mo- 


e  pTottaKcii  of  Beni^l,  ■ 
[I  |>]icG  their  hcAdi  um 

■  l>  caUeil  C 
le  preKT^'atinr 


wrlin  10  ■  forciun  vnTKitca  he  cilh  hinwif  the 
Unit  al  kln0i,  vham  lU  ntfaen  Aniikl  nlier,  i>  be 
h  the  cniw  of  the  pmenatmn  nf  illanlmahi  the 


'1^  t^L'trt  tiir  of  n.-Hi:iiiii. 
muiir,  jDil  of  luriij^ue  4'^ieJ- 
the  innm,  Ihe  t]ue\]>»iide(L  in' 


ROVAI.  lllVlsniKK. 

TiitHE  In  1  cuTimn  •UKn.tinii  in  lb<-  "  ».'- 
Lcltiwi."  by  tiK  Ablu  Mni^ult,  "on  the  •IMiii' 

lihilme  thev  uni^iully  Ivf^ii  in  |rr.itilutk',  aiuL 
al  leniiih  dcKcncr-itnl  into  iLitlrri.    TlieiK  ljel> 

adrnu-i',  wlim  Icil  on  br  [>r4un»  (hal  npiiJiL' 

Itwy  plircil  II  amuBK  tbc  >lil<ui  of  Ihe  whIi  in 
iha  (Miidl  rilk.1  Lmuimuim.  ttmn  iIk  Ti<li- 


■?!nj.t;K?  IS™,  ..„»...„.» 

■  bile  Ibcr  rtynwl  in  lUi  cjq'  piMmt  thiv  wne 
vnxil  vilh  A  RUKUlAcnil  reyM.    Wlln  Tavr 

iKHlihtheauiliI   FMiiiwilliy. ^ 
•TK  liamnin,  be  ikrircil  tlic  m. 


le  the,  b. 


Rnrn  him  nf  4  OrmipfJ  t 
We  know  thai  (he  fif»t  Romnn  ... 

Mmninia  liTiihvd  irete  txtna^^u.  Bnl  net- 
lu|n  kvf  know  that  Ibn-  vrre  Lew  ntli-iMve  Ihan 
Ihr  tlMterennf  tlw  lliiidnulnrv  iinilrr  llii  Pj|»in, 
ml  of  Ibe  fininh  whIit  ibe  ('1iir4uiii  eiiipeniK. 
...  Tine  who  aic  nrqluhitDl  tiilh  tlK  ihanilei  nf 
of  I  Ifae  *KE  of  AUKiMnliK  hme  onh  lo  haib  al  Ihe 
in, '  one.  mA  the  other  mfr.  In  find  n  InMnite  num- 
■ !    bet  of  pHnin  whii'h  hari  aiit  been  liearable  erco 


DETHRONED  MONABCIIS. 


!l  t^  Dfficfn  of  tht  1 


and  thit  Ihme  who,  in-agjlnl  b/  ■  itcriUrm 
tcmeriO'.  (I^tf  to  appom  Ihe  ■ulhoriQ'  of  *i 
iRrijijrjr,  ituJI  be  Bcpriv^  of  ihcir  empformeni 


■objects  tddrcH  Ihcm  by  Ibc  tilki  of  "  Tmr 

ol  Tbeodon  tbc  Grcit  lb«  the  nnpcrni.  __ 
length  addrd  Ibh  la  tbcir  tills.  II  bc^u,  "If 
•n/  maglttrate,  nfltr  hiving  concluiled  i  ft-r- 

frtuUr,  ttt  him  bcjtulgcd  fniilly  of  hi^  tm 
All  UiH  nmindi  one  of  "  UK  nlBtiil  emplr 


c  ICCiKnl  nrtuliruHi  and  lonunc  ol 


DBTHROKEO  MONARCHS. 


tnnplalnl    kirtt'    Tjliscd    Into    dninitiei,   we    ■ 
them  now  deprtanl  B  bfggart.    Oar  own  timt 
in   two  opp^te  »cn*c(.  mmy  flnphaijc4ly  1 
<li4tlneui4hen  u  thr  age  qf  tingi- 
In  CindlOe  or  Ihe  Uplimiu,  there  b  an  a 


not  luHkicnl  money  In  pgiy  for  i  Kum'  dinner 

ro  be  right  immarclu  In  fiorape,  who  had  bcci 
deprited  of  Iheii  crowni  r 


beaeged  in  Pavii  by  Bennger,  who  raiAx 
cooiTnin  her  to  marry  hb  w>n  after  Pavi. 

almoner.    The  irchbbhop  of  Reg^  had  offered 
her  an  a^lum ;  to  reach  i1,  ihc  and  her  ali 

com,  while  the  almoner  begged  for  alma  and 


1   lay  prebend   in   hi 
lay  Ibenfote  he  of  •> 
aibd  obvurely  at  I.ivge,  aft 

Maiy  of  Medirii,  the  i 
real,  molber  of  Loiib  X. 


uppikalo^  opening  s  "  Snpplk  Hahe,  V 


i(>4T,  I  beheld  Ihe 


t  an  ^ed,  lean,  decrepit,  poo 
e  no  )tlace  of  revidcnce  In  ' 


Fmli^.    Hia  twdy  ia  intetTcd  i 
and  hb  heatt  depo^Ied  at  (be 

land,  and  Eliiabcth 'aauitrd  hi 


on  Uego  Bothei 
ouii  of  Ponugal 
m  the  kings  0 


70  JOAy  OF  ASC.—GAHlXG. 

the  alhi.T  piny  had  ii  uken  (>]*«■    Thii  cniel  ibgn  iRicli:  lupoKuDui  in  i  pliikBaptalL'a)  vin . 
pinliulirlt  in  loie-itTiin,  am!  lui  ),ivtj  »  the  , 

''^S^T^'^   time    »h™   th<   German   l<ml.  ">*"  °'  *"«■ 

in   niuBE    up'ihe  fimoiH   Huivitic    VnioB   to  wh™  tin  «»i  mwo-cd  Ioh4vc  bcin  burnt  bv  It 

protect  their  IDminaa:  l^Sit  tx-paz  aiul  uui-  DukE  or  Bcdfoni.     None  of  cur  hiKoniu  notii 

GcnOrey.  laid  a(  Corntn-,  comiKllnl  hii  vife  ttta  her  dcalb  an  impuxoc  inrx.  and  vai  en 

ol  Ibe  town^  Ihit  br  thii  mmkhi:  mi^TTauR  levcriJ  cbiUlren.    UKIIict  the  ilsL-ncil  lo  hai 

to  Ihc  inhabilauli  tln«  priiilegej  ol  irhicli  hit  tccn  dniingauhed  by  the  ippclLiIioD  ol  1M  ilm 

ticmc  lurbaiity ;  but  the  cbinctcr  si  the  middle-  appiRl,  eies  donbtcd  her  iii.    U'e  know  iiille  ■ 

a|[«1lill  IdnilofaBT  kind  of  wanton  barbaiiun.  one  ki  eeL*bcaIcd  ai  to  hare  innneii  Ihe  beminei.. 

When  the  abbot  ol  ThieK  makei  bisniininlD  einci.    Tlx  Inilawii^  epitaph  on  bci  I  bnd  in 

hirtequin'i  CDit.  md  one  of  hit  legi  luked.  ii  pogaeningKinu  humour,  mcria  to  berexrued' 
to  the  door  of  hit  abbey,  JeacUiig  hit  bone  by  Ibe        ^  i-     t       kJ  j 

The  (eudai  barnni  frequeallv  cnmbiiKd  to  ahare  B€Hnc  enunt  urfj/,  and  wmeeount  nntck 

nbn  appeared  to  be  Ibe  mint  he«lthy  and  icrvicc-  Rome  ccBini  mjiJ,  nul  wme  a  «>*»ri, 

able,  or  vbo  were  nmiarkabie  lorlhrir  lalentii  HcrVfiinquejUoo.nmnnoriiKbi: 

and  not  unfiniueiillr  aold  them  in  their  markcB.  fj"  *■"*''  '■■  '|oo'|'.  j|>^''*  .■"  ""'»'"■ 


An  anecdote  ol  comparaliTely  recent  date  di»-  Wbclber  utnl,  ^i/ttch,  rjun,  nwhl,  or  -u-lu 
pla>-a  their  unleeiiaK  caprice.    A  lord  or  piincc  of 

nllarfet.  otMcn'cd  ■  ifiuU  aa^Rilriy  ol  pcaaanla  and 

Ebeir  bmiliea  ■mu'^ng  thenuelvei  with  duicing-  CAMING 

He  cominandi  hit  domestic*  to  part  Ihc  men  ftmn 

the  women,  and  cnnliiK  Ukoi  in  the  houo.    He  C«¥ixo  appean  to  he  a  univmai  paxii 

order)  the  cojti  ot  the  vomco  to  be  drawn  np  Komc  haie  uiempicd  lo  deny  m  unii-en: 

aboie  Ihcii  llead^  md  tied  wilb  their  eancn.  tber  bai-e  lnu^ned  that  it  i>  chieliy  preiaie 

The  men  n-erc  Iheo  libenied.  and  thoie  who  did  cold  climatet,  when  inch  a  pasion  becomes 

Abwhite  domi.iion  haideiH  the  humin  heart  ;  Tbe  fatal  pmpcniilv  of  gaming  I' lo  be  ditcoi-ered, 

ud  noMo  a.>-ut<onied  lo  comtnand  ihor  bond-  u  well  amonsit  Ibe  mhabiunia  of  Ibe  frigid  ap'i 

men  will  treat  ibeir  domcitici  ai  ilavs.  b  ibe  torrid  zonei.  ai  amoncil  Ihoie  of  the   mild 

tbelr«  bv  a  Irce  tive  of  the  cudgel  or  rgd^    Tlie  the  h<^e  of  accumulating  wealth  without  '^' 

Abbe  chapve  a-iw  i^o  huwian  tUti*  undrew  a  labounoriudu^lry, 

uncovered  u  fjr  a>  bcr  waiit.  one  placed  ber  hud  C.  Moore  on  suicide,  gaming,  and  duel]in]4,  n-liicii 

while  both,  aTmed  uith  tB'O  aharp  rodi,  violently  All  Ibcie  works  arc  eacellcnl  acrmona,  bui  a 

ladti-d  her  back  liil  it  pleaavd  the  domiatic  lyTant  mon  to  a  gambler,  a  dueUiiE,  or  ■  auicidc 

to  decree  it  vaj  mouj^A  '  dice-box,  a  iwoid  and  pistol,  ate  Ibe  only  il 

t>-niinyH  wc  may  esiclaim  with  Oold>mith —  mcu,  for  ci-er  kd  in  a'lal^nlb  of  Ibcir  own 


Sfllcnx  ct  Cormqiwl  ancmblcfl  ID  wtt  Iheir  gia- 

IbeiT  gaturi  -'    wbii  turhnity  i    Biit  are  w-e  k« 
butunmis  wc  «ho  cat!  j  funir  u  uxmbjy  wbo 

In  both  tbw  CSV!  Ihtf  phiJovpher  may  perluirt 
a-titm  pcttshioR  Hiih  fimifi  rniuirin;  in  immc- 
«idmtc  u  to  tbtf  btal  mir-ua  which  prtHiure  (be 
The  miM  inci.-nl  Inathe  by  ■  modcn  nn  Ihh 


tEcuc  nniMcn  i  he  mule  Ihli  visk  ro  cunncc 
biimcUa(ibi>(DUy.  BotmaeUcarall  linnlcnn 
nnn,  the  pnyen  of  bii  fti.-nib,  hhI  hh  on  book 
perpcnuUf  qoatcfl  beCon  hh  tkfX,  he  «»  a  i^reat 
nmcMiTtohnUilbnurt  Tbeumerlr^nMuce 
bappned  la  Mr  John  D.-nban.  Tbirt  bad  ntii 
the  iodJ  wbk  of  oU  Nonltfitn:,  vho  i(lrr>  ■>  the 

iikc  lurnkTlr  Kimei  of  chuice  vlth  eanlt  aikd 
dke;  hui  of  Ihii  Iblli  I  hne  Imi  Imn  nir.-d; 
auKij  bemw  I  AniiM  lb:it  wbilerer  icnod  fmiii- 


letteia  plan  dix]ilv,  he  wUl  Ik  diipi^il  cii.u 
■hallow  fellom.  or  \>f  proteiMl  yimM^i^. 
itirt,  anil  llial  Ultb:  pUffnociitu^  animal  Ifae  m   . 

row  nalioo*  of  ttw  Emti  to  luitate  thi-lr  mindu  luid 
nin  their  fDrtDwn;  to  vhwh  the  dilneK 
ne  deipecat*  kidiMi.ti.  add  the  uw  of 
When  all  other  i>rapeity  1>   filii-ed    an; . 

itrength  of  a  martial  bird.    If  ttlll  un 
the  U<l  venlute  be  uakii  i.  kimHlf. 
In  tiK  Wind  of  Ceirlon.  ™t.jfjf*(iBr 

to  >  great    height,      -i-ke  Xnnumn.  .r 

to  the  us  of  dice, 
crenthins  to  the  gb^Kl 


ling  lo  the  g. 


aiid  kkUi  eveiT  one 
ponble.    t  think  'il 


dice-    A  9trQib[  apirit  of  |4jy  cha- 


itei  hlnudf  with  o| 


.    The  Chineie  plar  nifkt  and  Jty, 
loft  all  they  are  worth ;  and  then  i 


iIicIt  hatchcti,  which 
name  KquiniiiMn,  on  tunning' 
w  ■  Enint"  nn  Cook, "  bcaliaie 
ina  Ida  hair  in  ibe  violence  (7 
raiKi  ^v  bniiK  lovT  tnree  batcbeti  at  one  uf  theae 
— '-    -"(i  which  he  had  purelLuud  with  lu 

P<riiana,  <jTedaiH»  and  Komansj   the 
re  a  mclanhol]'  (ask :  there  ii  tun 
nei4i4;  aniuls,  Ibe  dreadful  |ire«'alcni 


The  hiUowing  li 
lypian  to  be  an  c 


udlted  by  him  and  t« 

wbo  dcah  the  (anh  M  ■ 

, .  „-  -- .--- fl,  who  watch  the  cardt,  and 

^Iber  the  moiKy  liir  the  lunk. 
"^   "'vo  Purrh»  wbo  have  money  f^ren  them 

LCLEhK.  who'iii  a  dicck  upon  the  Prm, 


has  been  atripr. 
«(h.  A  UuKjiaa, 


FAiH,  who  h  In  light  aii>  Kenlleman 


THE  ARABIC  CHROmCLE^UETEMPSTCBOSIS. 


c  ippiwh  of 


\ke  poner»  lAd  aUnn  Uh 
nmings  or  of  the  coosublia  being  oulj  M 
T.  Ldcu,  E*q^  <7"4/'  ippejin  to  be  '  bool 


the  Btupid  nipemitii 


Tning  the  cnnutB :  acconling  to  Langeruet 
hi  be  hail  tnvlated  vei'enl  portioiu  of  it,  who- 
,.ei  lioiilii  he  ttned  (n  the  hMoiy  <A  the  tru- 
udei   •houid  inend   to  thb  chnxiicle,  1rhk^ 

_.  Kiukn  juaiw  Id  Ibe  Chnuliin  heraei.  an< 
utTlcularlv  dweUi  on  the  galLaoI  utiooa  of  th 
CounI  Je  St.  CiUirt. 

Our  bMoiiini  cUefly  mite  toticening  Gflfu 
ii  SHriHM  I  onlv  the  leimed  know  ihii  ih 
Count  4i  St*  GiUei  acted  Ibere  w  imponint 
eturacter.  The  itario  oF  the  ^iduijarejiui  th 
lercTK :   they  ipesk  little  concerning  Gotlfrrj 

Taaw  hu  raven  inio  the  mure  vulg«r  ucount 

S  nuking  the  ferifieT  »  cmineiilp  at  Ibe  coat  ( 
e  other  heruci.  In    hit   JcnjuLem   Deliveret 
Thut  vii^l  IraonlbTTiied  by  hn  magical  powc 

nmer  Ihe  menrlrlcMut  ftqelope  into  a  mojnin 
atroD.    It  i4  not  requisite  tat  poeii  ta  be  hi4( 

poet^    The  name  char^.  I  haiT  bci 

It  woulf^  .  cuTioin  inqiiif)-,  a 
■niBht  he  uncipettcd  lOHme^wi 

atlaciccd  the  contemptible   mullliiidei  Ibey  de- 
icribc.    TheK  haUcd  vicloriei  mighl  be  " 
nished.    The  tame  nbien'alitHi  artacbei  ta  C 

di  the  defeats  be  firquently  ^perieuced,   lite 

^'^'lal  pniudiceB  of  the  ftoman  hiilariana  have 

.i.^j. , . ■— -^a  ter)-emmeou. 


;aucntly 


hik  bJKhlv-  of  Ihai  people,     

Iture,  wbich  Ibey  had  iiiied  inlo  a 


ps>'cbo^a.    The  paim  antitbe 


npoMiNe  to  bx  the  epoch  of  iu  tint  luthar 


prgbably  followed  the  oi 


It  began  to  spread.    11 
D  14  Ibe  ^nt  ^ilovipher) 


lisration  of  uul>.    I 
(-ch«l»  ipread  in  >l 


tempi>'ch«l»  ipread 


-ed  ChrWianitv.    The  people 

vln-T 

^mtM  "ulki'^dKuil 

mi«tKv  they  ^  Poritk-d 
nee ;  for  man  nuy  be  con- 
a  a  ■'dIF,  till  at  lengtb  lie 

retted  inlo 

"piir 

SPAXrSB  ETIQCETTE. 


=  I^TCsc^  Ar  tTKir  oi 


-    KccTibf;  «Uct  41  couH,    In  »|vin  it  it»  ^'irtu 
i   tk^  *uch  *«Bcrt»  **  »o  nuke  m«i>i>  *«  (heir  kiiif 


IT  luppn  lo    ^-onv^ufl 


1   cmcretd.    If  bd  cc 


t  Ttilnl  wv   K"^^^'  ' 


mKj,  uid  Hw 


Ihe  bodid  of  teaifff/irJ  oirJ  rvjHt  iitigiw  HirUit 
ind  thOK  ot  Ihc  ■uMrr  fudni^A  i  while  Ihc 
tovb  ftT  iDftrUir  p«ntH)i  were  tuppncd  (o  p*w 


..,  _ ..,  — Ml  drrooale  fr 

n  kind  of  n-t  hi>  Mnnil  vu  hcMcd  In  hi....  .       „     . 

r  en'^pclii  of  Ukc  bcjd  inennl  1M  nrv  4iit, 

I   vhich.  luiiMilcd  bv  *  ilutmt  hin.  cnncJ  hiiu 

~  In  itii.  In  Ihc  twenly-lunnh  year  nf  hh  u 

rw  Ihe  kinif*  wtn  «ji  in  bcr  aiunnwul,  nid 
It  iKiiuMv  lUTc  hen  fliiHumnl  in  ■  tec 
mnili  bv  the  liunn.  M  Ihr  rr>k  at  hH  lilv 
bed  in.  ind  bmujilil  hi-r  hltthnr"  ufr  iml  in 
»Ru  1  hut  Ihc  Spubb  tntftm  ww  hen 
[ully  hmtcn  hilol  Tbc  lovil  wMkr  wn 
uilhl  to  trill,  jEul  an  It  wb  fminwhlc  tti  Umy 
I  he  bad  enteml  htf  apJinnHM.  Ihc  ji--" — 
idemncd  him  In  die  I  The  Kuni'di  M 
rerer  condevended.  In  colviiih^ition  nL  .... 
:uiiMaiice,  to  MntM  ibc  •ohlict,  wvl  leiv 
lerolenlly  tncd  hii  life. 
inicn  lubclli,  ifwlher  of  I 
be  ddlKml  of  him,  ihc  ■ 


"  llic  dtlry  of  hearenly  jwtice/' 
It  Jeogth  the  iDuli  of  tbw  who 


Ihc  demipli 

TiDlaillr  foiced  lo'tike  ihe'tetnu'iif  •irkriidi''( 

ulinili.  The  libourcn  chiiited  wiih  lbl<  tnni 
fomutioD  Ibtged  with  their  Innramcnti  cnul 
nm  i  qihen,  i  new  form ;  uul  nait  some  inull 
diuppcATi  thit  tbew  bouIi  riI^I  be  rcndrre 

Among  thac  he  perceived  the  will  o1  Ken 
which  hjd  ■liud)'  luffcred  Ldde  tonnenli,  ah 
which  ituck  to  Ihc  body  by  luilt  red  irom  Ih 
fire.    The  workmen  Kind  on  him  to  make 


rf  Philip  n.,  wu  leidv 


huiR  cfdour.  no  one  ndiriil  perceii" 
•hen  the  midwife  Bid,  -Midun.  ci^ 

'  How  dire  yon  f\vt  me  inch  kdirlcc ' 

**  Spain  fi^Tea  na  priJt — wUlrh  Jlpaln  ti 

Kiy  largely  give,  nor  (ear  henell  a  c 


:lr   to   be  Kwenied   by   hl«  mlniflen 
It  wlahcd  to  open  hi<  cvcv,  but  lie  r 


>t  pierce  ihrongh  the  rrowd 


74         THE  GOTHS  AXO  UITNS.^OF  nCASS  OF  BSAT.—DOUOLAS.           \ 

He  «..«l  .0  bt  l.jd  m  bit  fble.  one  dqr.  • 

paiUamcnt  mienaBl.    A  pan  iprtad  the  odinm 

letut  »^hH],  whkti  boR  thb  addns— "To  DM 

of  hii  name,  lor  they  laid  Ihai  he  had  Hwiyi 

Kin^  o(  Siain.  Pnilip  Bit  Tbrnl,  at  pnnt  id  Uk 

lored  the  UHlm  hetur  than  the  CImnli  • 

>:r.  Led  rhc  Duke  o(L«m..- 

In  1  linikir  naoaa.  Dob  Orlov  wu  u  Fliillp 

(be  SMond.  midc  .  hook  with  enipty  p>ga,  (0 

conlain  Ihe  ™>-.go  o(  hi.  ftthn.  whlS  bo™ 

thii  tiilc— "Tfte  Gr«i  ind  AdRiinbJe  Voyjgo 

of  Ihr  King  Mt.  Philip,"     All.hHe«,p«.con- 
tund  of  going  «>  .h.  bcociil  IhHn  KJiid.  ud 

Hvageim  and  Ooihic  bjrbarnm.  thai  nn  luer 

ihi>  kiiMl,  at  lengib,  coS  bim  bs  IU<. 

the  coniiaiy,  by  awakeniug  the  piety  ol  domeuic 

TUB  GOTHS  AND  HUNS. 

elevate  and  pnrity  the  mind. 
When  Home,  the  author  of  the   tragedy  o( 

coidnl  iD  hiaoiT.  by  tht  inlcnnciil  of  AIHU,  king 

of  the  Htiu ;  ud  Aluic.  king  of  the  Ga<b>. 

the  promt  pajK.r,  »hirfi  1  riilll  abridge  for  Ihe 

AHil.  di«l  in  4».  »ld  «  buried  in  Ihc  n.ite 

in  oDc  of  gotd,  another  of  lUter,  and  1  third  o( 
iroa.    WiiE  Ibe  bodr  wm  intenrd  >U  the  ipoili 

Presbytery  of  GLa^ow  came  10  the  following  re- 

«er  HwT  hid  uken  moU  precioin  in  the  pilun 
of  the  kino  Ihiv  had  pilUgtd:  uul  Ihu  the 

ulullon.    Thej-  hiving  aeen  a  printed  paper,  in- 

place  of  hitlntenricpt  mi^ilSr  oer  remun  con- 

reveiendPteibyteryofEdinbnTghi- which,  among 

cealed,  the  Hum  dtpri.id  of  life  tU  who  aniued 

a<hi.huri>]< 

la«*^  but  Mim™  facta  ^   thai  one  who  li  a 

THe  Cioihi  had  done  oearlv  Ihe  ame  fhr  Aliric 

minbrnr  of  Ihe  church  of  Scotland  did  *Biua(f 

in  410.  It  Cownei,  i  town  in  Calabria.    T?ici 

write  and  compose  0  iitp-fli).  intituled,  'The 

Ira^y  of  I>augl.i9,'  and  got  it  lo  be  acted  at  the 

a  grave  in  the  mUbt  of  l»  bed  irtm  in  cour^ 

other  mininen  of  iSe  church  were  prewot ;  and 

i«w  ol   them   q/inn  Ili»i  «<n.  at  the  acting  of 

they    muideted,  withom    e«xption,   ill    Ihoi^ 

pttihvterv  bcinR  rf«^j  aS"'''  ""'h  thii   new 

who  hid  been  concerned  In  dl^ng  thii  ungulii 

and  Brangf  ippeinnce,  do  puhliifa   Ihoc   senli- 

di,gu«   the   reiderj    but  which  Ihcy  appear  no. 

rti  to  have  punticd  and  corrected,  u  ihe>-  ha.-e 

OR  VICARS  OF  BRAT. 

ihouTi  in  the  cue  of  Logan  and  other  Scotch- 

under  the  reign  of  H^.'nrr  the  EighJh,  and  a  no- 

again  under  Mai>-,  and  onte  more  became  a  Pro- 
leMint  in  the  reign   nf   Ehiabeth.    When  tb» 

CRinCAL  HISTORY  OP  POVHSTY. 

■candal  (0  the  gD<m  wk  reproached  for  hii  tei- 

M>.  MoaiN,  in  the  memoiti  of  the   French 

ulililT  of  rehgioui  CTcedi.  and  tued  lot  bcinrr  1 
eipre«o  It,  he  replied.  "Not  »  neither;  lor  If 

Academy,  hi>  lonned  >  liltle  hutory  of  Poveily, 

hi.-e  nor  noticed  ibi<  dnlj-^  though  admitted  aa 

1  Chant^  mt  religion,  1  am  inre  1  kept  true  to 

my  principle  |  which  is,  to  lire  and  die  the  vicar 

juch  in  the  pagan  heaten,  while  Ae  hai  had 

ofltay!" 

I^rth  to  a  pttrterb  peruliu  to  Ihii  connm-,  ''Tlie 

Plato  ha  plei-inglv  narrated,'  that  it  Ihe  leul 

which  Jnpim  gave  ou  the  birth  of  Veuui,  Poverty 

vicar  of  Bray  rill  be  ticar  of  Inv  Hill.-    But 

modenly  Hood  al  the  gate  of  Ihe  piUice  to  gather 

ooloiioui,  and  cnc  in  much  higher  rank,  tcling 

the  unit  p«t,  Aould  have  eviped  notice?  Dr. 

roll  out  of  the  heivenly  rraidence,  ind  paaHug  into 

lilclm,    biihop  of   Ulndafi,    Imm  an  idle  ibbol 

the  Olympian  gafdenMh  row  hiiraelfon  a  vernal 

under  Henry  vm.  wh  made  i  hniy  biihop ;  Pro- 

leilinl   unifer    Edward,   be   Tetunied   lo   fail    old 

maxcr  under  Hirv;  and  al  laM  took  the  oilh 

iprang  the  god  of  Love,  who  leaemblca  hii  father 

CRITICAL  HISTORT  OF  POVERTV. 


TIk  M'XfHy  H  llUtfnwiU'  The  unign  at  par 
with  il^hci  miut  TncviiabLjr  proJiice  die  mos 
li^irnl  of  phvnm. 

Tbu  golden  w.  liowerer,  had  but  (he  dura 
of  *  Howcr;  wfacn  it  liniihed,  povcR)'  bcgii 

tael  did  not  ni«t  her  race  lo  lice,  ki 
m  lOTtlil  d.^sTL-u;  the  turant  Cain  ci 
ber.  »be  wis  Krmly  nUhliilMd  in  the  patiiirchil 
m^.  We  hcu  of  m.-rcliinti  who  publicly  pric- 
ti4Hl  the  commerce  of  ivnJJng  vlavcit  which  iD< 
«Ucire4  the  ninuM  decree  of  porerty.  She  ii  di^ 
linctly  m:krkH,-d  bv  Jot:  thii  holy  man  proteiD. 
that  he  hail  nothing  la  nrproairh  himaelf  wiih 
ropecllng  the  poor,  for  he  had  auisted  them  in 

In  the  Scriiitaro,  legi^laton  paid  great  atlrntion 
10  their  rvli.-f.  Moaes,  by  hii  wiv  prccaulioni, 
ndeatoured  to  vftcD  the  rigonn  of  tbia  unhappy 

famiUe*;  the  vptenDlai  ju^lcea  i  tne  relation 
lo  bcAtow  at  Ihe  narrcflt  lime  a  certaiq  porUonof 
all  the  frulu  of  the  earth  fur  Ihoie  famillci  who 
were  In  waul ;  and  the  obligation  of  hit  moral 
law  to  love  oneS  neighbour  aa  one'a  telf ;  were  u 
miny  monmlB  civclM  agiinft  the  innndatloiu  of 
poieiH'.  The  Je«>  nndn  their  Theoct»cr  hid 
few  or  no  mendicanti.  Ilidr  klnB>  were  unjust  i 
and  rapJCiauily  seiajng  on  inheritaitcca  which 
wvre  not  tlicir  right,  incrcaaed  the  Dumbcn  of  the 

prdklre  govemoKH.  who  devoured  the  people  h 
■heir  breul.  It  wai  nill  wonc  onder  the  foreign 
powen  of  Dahrkin,  of  hrua,  and  the  kornan 
empeCDK.  Both  were  the  eitortioni  of  thrir 
poMii'ans  and  the  avirlM  al  Iheir  govemoTa.  that 
the  number  of  menJicantt  dreadfully  augmenKd ; 
mt  it  wai  prohabh  far  that  reaion  that  the  oinilent 

^.  J  ^n,j|  ^jj  jj  jjijjj  property 

H  appcan  in  the  time  of  the 


ingellitt.    In  t 
^.'cn.ai  their  caniiiliaBnrenLlban  the  fortii 
It  thirtieth  part ;  a  cnitom  wMcb  Ihli  unfonun 


usiban  the  fortieth 


«ill  practlie.    tflhereaf.   .. 

nallon  when  thn'  roide,  they  tend  It  to  the  ni 
dMint  parti.  The  Jewl4i  nelrhma  ruUh  tt 
charity  a  legnlir  charee  in  their  nimactlaiH  w) 
each  other  j  and  at  the  clov  of  rbe  year  render  j 


i"tteJof'<lo 


rjcA ;  th«  lived  and  laboured  in  CDminun 
in  the  preimE  limefl.  every  family  has  if*  i 
and  cellan,  »  Iber  bad  pnbbc  nnea*  and 
tributed  the  provi^fiiH  accordipi;  lo  the  ajfci 

the  Corlnlhlana.  and  Ibe  other  people  cM'  Cr 
the  Hme   nuiim  existed   in   full   force  a: 
idlene... 
According  lo  the  lawT  of  Draco.  Solon,  ft 

the  louof  life.    Plato.  Riore'|waIle  in  hiiinaii 

Ihit  where  there  ire  great  numbers  of  m 

people  have  ooIbiPK  in  ln,%  they  plan  o| 
lunilius  to  disturb  tltc  public  repan:. 

was  Ibe  public  prosperity,  were  aol  indebted  to 

parions  of  Ibelr  cenun  was  to  knp  a  waich  a 
Ibe  vagabondit.  11id«c  who  werv  condemned  i 
iucorri^ble  flujgards  were  sent  to  Ihe  mine*.  ' 
nude  to  biboui  on  (Ik  poblk  cditicet.  The  Re 
Riaoi  of  ibOK  liniei,  unlike  the  piaent  nee.  ifi 

IlKy  were  convinced  thiit  their  libcnlhiei  wei 

liltle  repuliba  of  Hie  %tii  and  the  .inii  were  ollc 
held  out  as  an  example  ^  and  the  bist.  pinict 
larly  where  Vi^U   sa>s.  that  they  have  dectc 

"  — .-  Pari  agmina  eogunt, 
vellers.  the  hat/m  pursue  Ihia  regidalian  laoi 


idlen  and   vijfilinada  la  the  thickest   mli-   -' 
their  martbes,  and  left  them  to  pcrUh  bv  a  kii 

deicb  whlchnwmbkdthdTlnictiee  ImUspo^I 

Yet,  after  all,  i[  waa  not  inhununity  that 
prompted  the  andenti  thus  aegerdy  to  chastise 
ulk'nea;  they  were  induced  to  it  by  a  siiict 
equity  |  and  It  would  lie  doing  Ihem  IniusHce  to 

firtunttt  fittr,  whose  Indlicence  was  occasioned 

Every  family  constantly  assisted  Its  bnnches  to 
aave  them  ftTHn  being  redm'cd  to  beggnn-  ^  which 
to  Ihem  appeared  worse  than  dc;i1h.  The  ma^s- 
Irates  protected  those  who  were  devtiiui 
friends,  or  iiu'apahle  of  Ijhour.  When  IT] 
was  disguised  as  a  meDdicanl.  and  presented 


•r, 


SffL'>M".\  AM>  siir.iiA.  -nrj.L. 


Whetlirr  tlic  poliio  ot  tlu-  .im  n-iil^  \s  l^  nmrc 
exact,  or  whether  they  were  more  attentive  to 
practise  the  duties  of  humanity,  or  that  slavcr\ 
5er^•etl  as  an  e(rie;u:ious  corrective  of  idlcneM;  it 
clearly  appear,  how  little  wa<  the  miser\-,  and 
how  lew  the  numbers  of  their  poor.  ThisStey  did, 
too,  without  havin;;  recourse  to  hospitals. 

At  the  establishment  of  Christianity,  when  the 
apostles  commanded  m  community  of  wealth 
among  their  disciples,  the  miseries  of  the  i)oor 
became  alleviated  in  a  «f{>T<-*ater  degree.  If  they 
did  not  absolutely  live  together,  as  we  have  seen 
religious  orders,  yet  the  rich  continually  supplied 
their  distressed  brethren :  but  matters  greatly 
changed  under  Constantine.  This  prince  pub- 
lished edicts  in  favour  of  those  Christians  who 
liad  been  condemned  in  the  preceding  reigns  to 
slaver^-,  to  the  mines,  the  galleys,  or  prisons.  The 
church  felt  an  inundation  of  prodigious  crowd* 
of  these  miserable  men,  who  bn)uf?ht  with  them 
urgent  wants  and  corporeal  inhrmities.  The 
Christian  families  were  then  not  numerous ;  they 
could  not  satisfy  these  claimants.  The  magistrates 
protected  them :  they  built  spacious  ho>pitals, 
under  different  titles,  for  the  sick,  the  aged,  the 
invalids,  the  widows,  and  orphans.  The  emperors, 
and  the  most  eminent  per^nages,  were  seen  in 
these  ho^pitals  examining  the  patients ;  thev 
assisted  the  helpless;  they  dresied  the  wounded. 
This  did  so  much  honour  to  the  new  religion, 
that  Julian  the  Apostate  intnxluced  this  custom 
among  the  pagans.  But  the  best  things  are  seen 
continually  perverted. 

These  retreats  were  found  insufficient.  Manv 
slaves,  proud  of  the  liberty  they  ha<l  just  recovered, 
looked  on  them  as  prisons ;  and  under  various 
pretexts,  wandered  alwut  the  country.  They 
displayed  with  art  the  scars  of  their  former  wounds, 
and  "!cpo»ed  the  imprinted  murks  of  their  chains. 
'I'hev  found  thus  a  lucrative  profession  in  begging, 
which  had  been  interdicted  by  the  laws.  The 
profe«ion  did  not  finish  with  them :  men  of  an 
untoward,  turbulent,  and  licentious  disiKisition 
gladly  embraced  it.  It  spread  so  wide  that  the 
succeeding  emperors  were  obliged  to  institute 
new  laws ;  and  individuals  were  allowed  to  seize 
on  tliese  mendicants  for  their  slaves  and  perpetual 
vassals :  a  powerful  preservative  against  this  dis- 
order. It  is  obscr\'ed  in  almost  every  part  of  the 
world,  but  ours;  and  prevents  that  populace  of 
beggar\'  which  disgnicos  Europe.  China  presents 
us  with  a  noble  example.  No  beggars  are  seen 
loitering  in  that  country.  All  the  world  are 
occupied,  even  to  the  blind  and  the  lame;  and 
only  those  who  are  incapable  of  labour  live  at  the 
public  expense.  What  is  done  tktre  may  also  be 
performed  htre.  Instead  of  that  hideous,  importu- 
nate, idle,  licentious  poverty,  as  pernicious  to  the 
police  as  to  morality,  we  should  see  the  poverty  of 
the  earlier  ages,  humble,  modest,  fragal,  robust, 
industrious,  and  laborious.  Then,  indeed,  the 
fable  of  Plato  might  be  realized :  Poverty  may  be 
embraced  by  the  god  of  Riches ;  and  if  site  did  not 
produce  the  voluptuous  oflspring  of  Love,  she 
would  become  the  fertile  mother  of  Agriculture, 
and  the  ingenious  parent  of  the  Arts  and  Manu- 
factures. 


SOLOMON   AND  SHEBA. 

A  RABBIS  once  told  me  of  an  ingenious  inven- 
tion, which  in  the  Talmud  is  attributed  to  Solo- 
mon ;  and  this  story  shows  that  there  are  some 
pleasing  talcs  in  that  immense  compilation. 

The  power  of  the  monarch  had  spread  hb  wis- 
dom to  the  rcmotttst  parts  of  the  known  world. 
Queen  Sheba,  attracted  by  the  splendour  of  his 
reputation,  visited  this  poetical  king  at  his  own 
court ;  there,  one  day  to  exercise  the  aagacity  of 
the  monarch,  Sheba  presented  herself  at  the  loot 
of  the  throne ;  in  each  hand  she  held  a  wreadi ; 
the  one  was  composed  of  natural,  and  the  otiicr  of 
artificial   flowers.    Art,  in  the  labour  of  die  mi- 
metic Mnreath,  had  exquisitely  emulated  the  lively 
hues  of  nature  ;  so  that  at  the  distance  it  was  beM 
by  the  queen  for  the  inspection  of  the  king,  it  was 
deemed  impossible  for  him  to  decide,  as  her  qiMS> 
tion  imported,  which  wreath  was  the  prodnction 
of  nature,  and  which  the  work  of  art.    The  laga- 
cious  Solomon  seemed  perplexed ;  yet  to  be  van- 
quished, though  in  a  trifle,  by  a  trifling  woman, 
irritated  his  pride.    Tlie  son  of  David,  he  who  had 
written  treatises  on    the    vegetable    productions 
"  from  the  cedar  to  the  hv-Mop,"  to  acknowledge 
himself  outwitted  by  a  woman,  with  shreds  of 
paper  and  glazed  paintings  !    The  honour  of  the 
monarcli's  reputation  for  divine  sagacity  aecmcd 
diminished,  and  the  whole  Jewish  court  looked 
solemn  and  melancholy.    At  length,  an  expedient 
presented  itself  to  the  Icing ;  and  one,  it  must  be 
confemsed,  worthy  of  the  naturalist.    Obscn-ing  a 
cluster  of   l)ees   hovering   about  a  window,  he 
commanded   that  it  should  be  opened :   it  was 
oi>ened ;    the  bees  rushed   into  the  court,  and 
alighted  immediately  on  one  of  the  wreaths,  while 
not  a  single  one  fixed  on  the  other.    The  baAed 
Sheba  had  one  more  reason  to  be  astonished  at  the 
wisdom  of  Solomon. 

This  would  make  a  pretty  poetical  tale.  It 
would  \  tcld  an  elegant  description,  and  a  pleasing 
moral ;  that  the  bee  onlv  retts  on  the  natural  beau- 
tii-s,  and  never /x«  on  the  pain  ted  ^auptri^  however 
inimitably  the  colours  may  be  laid  on.  Applied 
to  the  tadieSt  this  would  give  it  pungency.  In  the 
"  Practical  Education "  of  the  Edgewcrths,  the 
reader  will  find  a  very  ingenious  conversation 
about  this  stor>'. 


HELL. 


Oldham,  in  his  "Satires  upon  the  Jesuits, 
work  which  would  admit  of  a  curious  commentary, 
alludes  to  their  "lying  legends,"  and  the  innu- 
merable impositions  thev  practised  on  the  credu- 
lous. I  quote  a  few  lines  tn  which  he  has  collected 
some  of  those  legendary  miracles,  which  I  have 
noticed  in  the  article  Lkgcnds,  and  the  amours  of 
the  Virgin  Maiv  are  deUiled  in  Vol.  II.  art. 
Religious  Sowuellettes. 

Tell,  how  blessed  f'irein  to  come  down  was  seen, 
Like  play-house  punk  descending  in  machine. 
How  she  writ  billet-doux  and  Itn/e'd'ucourse, 
Made  assignations^  I'uits^  and  amours  i 
How  hosts  distrest,  her  smock  for  banner  wore. 
Which  vanquished  foes  I 


HELL.— THE  ABSENT  MAN. 


Tbeir  IbU)  and  Ihcir  uipenlitiDn  fai. 

All  Ihoc  nn  jtlloiiDni  to  thr  CTtrjviganl  ficlloiu 

in  "Ibe  GolilFn  Legend."     Araang  otKrr  £!» 

illicki  them  far  certun  paliliatiDiu  on  tqpi« 
not  Itfft  MnguUr.    The  taJc*  he  hv  Tectninttfd, 

bC  a  fair;  ba[  thi^y  hiv«  ibdr  profniindrT  niid 


The  ruden  of  Oldhim,  for  OMhun  nr 


1  of  «  CapUbIn  ThomTHon.  « 


rendciv  of  the  Rornhh  rhurcTi 
,  or  for  thcJT  particulnr  y<jx\ 


mfuTfa 


fniir  dillercnt  plafi:%  or  i  profound  place 
ed  info  four  porn.     The  dccpcri  of  Thnc 

led.  when;  will  be  lUo  their  hodia  after  the 

place  neiml  Hell  il  Futfaltrj.  where  (mill  are 
purped,  Dt  rtlher  where  they  appear  the  anger  of 
ngd  by  Ihcir  lulIedD^    He  an  chat  the  tame 

4,  the  only  dllference  between  H*tl  aod  PurgM- 
Ivty  conii^nE  in  Ihelrdarathjii»  !<cal  lo  Ar£a- 
Wy  n  the  litAt  of  thow  iit/anli  whn  die  wilhoul 


diviiLnn  ^  emphr,  like  an  aE 
later  Catholic  ifaealarait,  Ih 
condcmu  aJf  rtu  UtuultHi 

titne  of  Jeiuii  and  therefore  i 
by  the  [cdnnption  I  Apeaki 
wlio  was  compelled  to  fa] 
-nilcmont  addt, "  Tliiu  by  h 

nolhing  bvl  of  Ihii  prince,  joina  no 
he  added  thli  rtAclMa  in  hit  later  edili 
the  Eood  Hian  ai  he  erew  cildcr  Ere* 
chanubic  in  bti  [elidoui  Boiton;.  II 
manner  Ion  that  Ifae  Ilenedinine  edlto 
Minyt  ipi'alu  of  the  illuitiriDui  payi 
FalbtfT,  ^ter  hlghtf  applauding  floera 
few  more  who  rcienhled  bim.  Incline 

tine  editor  takei  great  paln«  to  deal 
rather  (hnn  theibamefut  impulaUoD  of 
that  A  vtrttitui  tnan  tm^ht  bt  tarvd  m 


KTJwb^m™^  isisr?  Jis3r 

ed  a.  »i  athei», 

(Villi  rr(>ll  O 
inbabitanb  t 

t%r^S'S,>." 

their  deden* 
•Ueilunrih 

^r::^.T^t, 

more  cln«Jy 

nesof  I^  d'omi' 

too'h?2h£™ui^ 
by,  Bmvereiandai. 


ya 


U'.LV-  \V'Jl:h\-~rASijfV\  ASff   MARFORIO. 


arms.  He  was  i»la\ing  with  hir,  wlitn  an  im- 
portant visitor  was  announced.  Having  forgot  he 
had  quitted  his  book,  and  that  it  was  his  child  he 
held  in  his  hands,  he  hastily  flung  the  squalling 
innocent  on  the  table. 

The  count  was  walking  in  the  street,  and  the 
■Duke  de  la  Rochefoucault  crossed  the  way  to 
speak  to  him. — "  God  ble«  thee,  poor  man !"  ex- 
claimed the  count.  Rochefoucault  smiled,  and 
was  beginnini;  to  addivss  him:— "Is  it  not 
enough,"  cried  the  count,  interrupting  him,  and 
somewhat  in  a  passion  ;  "  is  it  not  enough  that  I 
have  said,  at  first,  I  have  nothing  for  you  ?  Such 
lazy  beggars  ai  you  hinder  a  gentleman  from 
walking  the  streets."  Rochefoucault  burst  into 
a  loud  laugh,  and  awakening  the  Absent  Man 
from  his  letharg>',  he  was  not  a  little  surprised, 
himself,  that  he  should  have  taken  his  friend  for 
an  importunate  mendicant  I  La  Fontaine  is  re- 
corded to  have  been  one  of  the  most  absent  men  ; 
and  Furetiere  relates  a  circumstance  which,  if 
true,  is  one  of  the  most  singular  distractions  pos- 
sible. La  Fontaine  attended  the  burial  of  one  of 
bis  friends,  and  some  time  afterwards  he  called  to 
viMt  him.  At  tint  he  was  shocked  at  the  informa- 
tion of  his  death,  but  recovering  from  his  surprise, 
obser\-ed— " True !  True!  I  recolkwi  I  went  to 
his  funeral." 


WAX-WORK. 


We  have  heard  of  many  curious  deceptions  oc- 
casioned by  the  imitative  powers  of  wax-work.  A 
series  of  anatomical  sculptures  in  coloured  wax 
was  projected  by  the  Grand  Duke  of  Tuscany, 
under  the  direction  of  Fontana.  Twenty  apart- 
ments have  been  tilled  with  those  curious  imita- 
tions. They  represent  in  cverv  possible  detail, 
and  in  each  successive  stage  of  denudation,  the 
organs  of  sense  and  reproduction ;  the  muscular, 
the  vascular,  the  ner\-ous,  and  the  bony  svstem. 
They  imitate  e(iually  well  the  form,  and  more  ex- 
actly the  colouring  of  nature  than  injected  prepa- 
rations ;  and  they  nave  been  employed  to  perpetu- 
ate many  transient  phenomena  of  disease,  of  which 
no  other  art  could  have  made  so  lively  a  record. 

There  is  a  species  of  wax-work  which,  though 
it  can  hardly  cl.iim  the  honours  of  the  fine  arts,  is 
adapted  to  atlord  much  pleasure.  I  mean  figures 
of  wax,  which  may  b-j  modelled  with  great  truth 
of  character. 

Menage  has  noticed  a  work  of  this  kind.  In  the 
year  1675,  the  Duke  de  Maine  received  a  gilt 
cabinet,  about  the  size  of  a  moderate  table.  On 
the  door  was  inscribed,  •'  The  Apartment  of  ff^it." 
The  inside  exhibited  an  alcove  and  a  long  gallery. 
In  an  arm-chair  was  nested  the  figure  of  the  duke 
himself  composed  of  wax,  the  resemblance  the 
most  perfect  imaginable.  On  one  side  stood  the 
Duke  de  la  Rochefoucault,  to  whom  he  presented 
a  paper  of  verses  for  his  examination.  Mr.  De 
Marcillac,  and  Bossuet,  Bishop  of  Meaux,  Mrere 
standing  near  the  arm-chair.  In  the  alcove,  Madame 
de  I'hianges  and  Madame  de  la  Fayette  sat  retired, 
reading  a  nook.  Boileau,  the  sarifist,  stood  at  the 
door  of  the  galler}*,  hindering  seven  or  eight  bad 
poets  from  entering.  Near  Boileau  stood  Racine, 
who  seeroed  to  beckon  to  La  Fontaine  to  come 


PASQUIN  AND  MARFORIO. 

All  the  world  have  heard  of  these  statues:  thqr 
have  served  as  vehicles  for  the  keenest  satire  in  a 
land  of  the  most  uncontrolled  despotism.  Tlie 
statue  (if  Pasquin  (ftom  whence  the  word  pasqunt' 
ade)  and  that  of  Marforio  are  placed  in  Rome  in 
two  different  quarters.  Marforio* s  is  an  ancient 
statue  that  lies  at  its  whole  length.  That  of  Pas* 
quin  is  a  marble  statue^  greatly  mutilated,  which 
stands  at  the  comer  of  the  palace  of  the  UfMnos 
supposed  to  be  the  figure  of  a  gladiator.  What- 
ever they  may  have  been  is  now  of  little  conse- 
ouence  :'  to  one  or  other  of  these  statues,  during 
the  concealment  of  the  night,  are  affixed  those 
satires  or  lampoons  which  the  authon  wish  should 
be  dispersed  about  Rome  without  any  danger  to 
themselves.  When  Marforio  is  attacked,  Pasqum 
comes  to  his  succour;  and  when  Pasquin  is  the 
sufferer,  he  finds  in  Marforio  a  constant  defender. 
Thus,  by  a  thrust  and  a  panr,  the  most  serious 
matters  are  disclosed ;  and  the  most  illustrious 
personages  are  attacked  by  their  enemies  and 
defended  bv  their  friends. 

Misson,  in  his  travels  in  Italy,  gives  the  follow- 
ing account  of  the  origin  of  the  name  of  the  statue 
of  Pasquin : — 

A  satirical  tailor,  who  lived  at  Rome,  and  who^ 
name  was  Pasquin,  amused  himself  with  severe 
railler},  liberally  bestowed  on  those  who  passed 
by  his' shop  ;  which  in  time  became  the  lounge  of 
the  newsmongers.  The  tailor  had  precisely  the 
talents  to  head  a  regiment  of  satirical  wits,  and 
had  he  had  time  to  publish,  he  would  have  been 
the  Peter  Pindar  of  his  day ;  but  his  genius  seems 
to  have  been  satisfied  to  rest  cross-legged  on  his 
shopboard.  When  any  lampoons  or  amusing  bon- 
mots  were  current  at  Rome,  they  were  usually 
called  from  his  shop,  pasquinades.  After  his  death 
this  statue  of  an  ancient  gladiator  was  found  under 
the  pavement  of  his  shop.  It  was  soon  set  up,  and 
by  universal  consent  was  inscribed  with  his  name ; 
and  they  still  attempt  to  raise  him  from  the  dead, 
and  keep  the  caustic  tailor  alive,  in  the  marble 
gladiator  of  wit. 


forwards.  All  those  figures  were  formed  of  wax ; 
and  this  philosophical  baby-house,  interesting  for 
the  personages  it  imitated,  might  induce  a  wish  in 
some  philosophers  to  play  once  more  with  one. 

There  was  lately  an  old  canon  at  Cologne  who 
made  a  collection'  of  small  wax  models  of  charac- 
teristic figures,  such  as,  personifications  of  misery, 
in  a  haggard  old  roan  with  a  scanty  crust  and  a 
brown  jug  before  him  ;  or  of  avarice,  in  a  keen- 
looking  Jew  miser  counting  his  gold,  which  were 
done  with  such  a  spirit  and  reality  that  a  Flemnh 
painter,  a  Hogarth  or  Wilkie,  could  hardly  hare 
worked  up  the  feeling  of  the  figure  more  impres- 
sively. All  these  were  done  with  truth  ancl  ex- 
pression which  I  could  not  have  imagined  the 
wax  capable  of  exhibiting,  says  the  lii'ely  writer 
of  "  An  Autumn  near  the  Rhine."  Therc'is  some- 
thing ver\'  infantine  in  this  taste ;  but  1  hare 
preserved  it  long  in  life,  and  only  lament  that  it 
is  very  rarely  gratified  by  such  close  copiers  of 
nature  as  was  this  old  canon  of  Cologne. 


FEMALE  BEAarr  AND  ORNAMENTS.                            79  | 

■nm  i>  .  my  nre  wo.k.  wiai  thu  liik:— 

pcncu  (jedc  caput,  Cassancs  periil. 

•■  The  pope  It  the  head  of  Meduti  1  Ihe  horrid 

pnblhhed  It  Bule,  IJ44.    The  ranty  of  thit  lol- 

lectlon  of  HlihcaJ  pieces  i>  euiFrly  owing  lo  the 

ind  then  MU  shall  be  nd  of  these  setpcnflocks." 

aent.    sJlengre,  in  hi>  Lilenry  Memoiti,  hu 

Another  HarcuUc;— 

BlTeu  u>  ucouol  of  Ihi.  wock ,  hU  own  copy  h>d 
lorninly  belonged  to  Diniel  Heinniui.  who,  in  two 

Ut  taceam,  quinium  lu  mihi.  Panic,  dahi.  ? ' 

thtprie<ite«t: 

they  might  sing:  how  mucH  will  fca  gi.i  me. 

■ami  men  fnlreg  igni  dEdil.  unici  Phisnii 

nmite  1  uliUiy  Phicnui.    Heiuiiui  bought  me 

passages  from   the  Sciiptum  which  have  been 
applied  to  the  court  of  Kome  I  id  diUcrcni  naiiuns 

fori  handled  golden  duca»." 

and  persdns ;  and  one  or  •■  S«ru<  rirptiaBu  «r 

quenih.   happily  apphed ,    ind  those   wHo  ire 
cuiioui  in  the  hlHDiy  df  those  times  »iU  lind  Ihis 

piecel  composed  at  different  Omej,  igiinit  ihi 

portion  loliteling.    Tbe  work  ittelf  Is  not  quite 

wlthp5ii!>^ai™.'n«"bu!  Mr,"HScoe  mirf^ 
h.ve  aiicoveied  in  TheK  ep<gr.m.  und  pun.  tfii. 

to  nre  at  Daniel  Heinslus  imagined ;  the  price 

might  now  reach  from  bve  to  ten  guineas. 

Hirfono  b  1  sutue  if  M^<i.   lound  in  Ihe 

Lucretii  of  Aleuoder  VI. :   even   Die   conapl 

komiDi  of  the  div  were  opible  of  eapiaring 
then«l«.  with  the  utmoM  freedom.  ^fZa? 

Mi'Mu.     These  itituB  are  pUced  at  oppoiilc 

ends  of  Ihe  losn,  so  that  there  i>  ilwiyt  (Uthcienl 

■hive  mpecUhle  penoiuget  we  And  Kietil  epl- 
Vn  rondnci  ;— 

time  to  mike  Mirfotio  irply  10  Ihe  jibes  ind  ;een 

ofPBOuin.inwilkinafmm  one  to  Ihe  other.    I 
am  obliged  foi  Ihis  inTormalion  Id  my  friend  Mr, 

VcnJlt  Alexander  Cl»e^  iltuia,  ChiUtum, 

Duppi,  the  elegMt  biographer  of  Michael  Angto. 

Emeratille  p[iui,venderejure  poteit. 

"  AJenui  Jei  hUi  the  keyi,  the  alUn,  »nd  ChiiB  1 

A>  he  taiifti  them  linfl,  he  hid  >  right  10  mU 

(A™,-- 

FBMALB  BEAtm-  AND  ORNAMENTS. 

On  Lucretli  ;— 

Tut  ladies  In  Jipin  gild  their  leeth ;  >od  Ihose 

oflbelndicspaini  them  red.    The  peirl  of  teeth 

Thiu  1  Aliiindii  fiiii,  ipoDU,  nunit  1 
"  Benuth  thit  itone  tleepi  Lucrelii  by  nune. 

but  by  niluie  Thii.  J  the  diurfitet,  the  wife,  ind 
the  dioghler-in-law  of  Aleund^l" 

1^  X.  wm  frequent  butt  for  the  uiowi  of 

Pisqnin  :- 

Ihoie  o(  the  ibe.goaI  j  and  to  under  them  Ihm, 

Sacn  tub  entttml,  11  foile  requiritit.  hotl 

their  youth  Is  paned  in  tortures.  In  ancient  Persia. 

an  aquiline  nose  was  often  thought  wonhv  of  the 
crown  i  and  if  Iheie  wai  any  comprtiiion  between 
two  princes,  Ihe  people  generally  wcin  by  ihii 

"  Do  you  uk  why  Leo  did  not  tike  the  s«n- 

molheis  hreik  the  nwes  of  then  children ;  and  in 

Miny  of  thoe  HiiTicil  touches  depend  on  puns. 

othen  ftat  Ihe  head  between  two  boards,  thil  il 

Uiban  vn.,  one  of  the  BirtfrinI  fimily,  pillaged 

may  become  tquaie.    The  modem  Persians  have 

a  ationg  aversion  to  ltd  hair  -.  Ihe  Turks,  on  the 

occiiion  Pasquin  w«  made  10  ny  :— 

Quod  non  fecetunl  tarUn  Komc,  fetil  Sa'turini. 
On  Clement  vn,.  whose  dealh  w»  nid  to  be 

and  recking  tripe,  10  dm  henclf  with  enviable 

In  China  imaO  round  eies  are  liked  i  ind  the 

Donandus,  pet  quem  pubiici  piiu  ului. 

niit  are  continually  plucklDg  their  e)ebraws,that 
they  mi.  be  Ihin  and  long.    The  TurtHh  women 
dip  a  gold  brush  In  the  linclun  of  1  black  drug, 
which  Iher  pass  over  their  evebrows.    It  is  too 
vi^^by  i.,,but  look,  shining  by  -i^^^^ 

dies  -,  he  ought  to  be  paid  u  1  mm  who  baa  cured 

Anoihei  oils  Dr.  Cuniw,  "-Hie  Lamb  o(  Ood 

who  innul,  or  taket  i-iy  all  worldly  ain.." 

beauty  mutt  have  imall  eyes,  thick  iips,  i  large 
flat  now,  and  a  diin  beintifiiUy  black,     T^e 

The  following,  on  Hul  m.,  are  aogulai  con- 

eeptiom  ;— 

Emperor  of  Manommipa  would  not  change  his 

8o                                           MODESS  PLATOmSM.                                               \ 

ur»fak  ncgn  f«  the  m<M  brilUul  E<m>pe«> 

OioM  but  among  the  OTKle..  He  would  account 

be»u(>-. 

An  anitmm  for  the  dok  ippon  to  m  per- 

locccwion  nf  beamed  men  devoted  lo  thit  pnrpoK. 

He  «yv  -  Either  we  muM  admit   the  knowledge 

Ihe  thickne*  oT  which  U  proponioned  hy  the  rank 

of  the  prioBa.  or  turn  «in,Yr,.  „  ik  o«„„,,  ,Sd 

belieie  in   the  .m.iu£i.«.  ^ ^Ua.  wAk*  m  lAi, 

of  Iheic  bu>b.i.d..    Therusom  of  boring  ,1.  a 

miiCTiilj ;  luch  n  gitcn  rn-iol,  golii,  uone^  1 

baamu,  hinaelf  might  ha.-e  wondered. 

•ingle  Jtid  »mei.inei  •  greii  namba  ol  gold 

Wediicom  the  origin  of  inD»N  platokiu. 

ringi.    Th»  ii  mhn  tmuBlngme    to    them    In 

blooinit  Uieir  nn«  ;  ind  the  f«t  ij,  u  Bmt  h»ve 

^(nrjncd^u^^h..  <l>e^lndi^  l-die.  never  pertottn 

time  belore  the  Tnrki  had  become  maiieti  of 

Tl^^^e  l^^t^*ii  cimed  in  wme  nnn- 

curiti  on  fier  held  the  liguii  ol  i  ceTtlin  bird- 

Thi?  bird  u  compOKd  o(  copper,  or  of  ^Id,  ic- 

cording  lo  the  qii»Ulf  of  the  pet»n  ;  the  «ing. 
.ptcul  oot.  (lU  over  ibe  troni  of  the  he«l-dre^ 

Conno  de  Medici,  ■ho°»^'hi.  "co"tatt"udiwl! 

uid  conceil  the  teinplei.  The  tail,  longind open. 

eleiated  ipeciet  of  philowpBv."     The   learned 

the  top  of  the  note  i  the  neck  it  (utcn:d  lo  the 

Manilio   Ficino  tnulated    Plotinui,  thai  greii 

body  of  the  inihirlil  Inimil  by  >  ipring,  that  it 

tnav  the  more  (leelx  play,  and  tremble  at  the 

Kclhol  eminent  abilities  that  in    hii  old  age 

.Ughteu  modan. 

thoae  whom  hi)  now;l  nllelin  bad  gnatlv  irrilaled. 

The  extravagance  of  the  Myantw  ii  far  more 

either  feared  or  retpecied  him.    He  had  icaicely 

headi  a"^ieht°boar<^'  rathct  longe/l^  i  foot. 

and  our  Mclho.    The  following  account  i>  writWu 

and  about  m  inchei  broad :  with  IbU  Ihey  co>er 

by  George  of  Trebiiond. 

"  Lauly  haa  ariaen  amongn  ui  a  second  Hlbo- 
met:  andthitKCDnd.ifwedonot  take  care,  will 

iheit  hair,  and  Kal  it  w,ih  -ax.    TlKy  cannot  lie 

down.  DOT  lean,  without  keeping  the  neck  Bnight ) 

uceed  in  gnatnna  the  fint,  bv  the  dreadfol  con- 

common  10  find  Ihao  with  their "head^lT™  en-    Hiuenceiol  hu  wicked  dncttioc.  a.  the  tint  has  1 

tangled  in  the  creet.    wljeoever  they  comb  their 

ioHpbcr    in    philwuhv.  in    eloquence,   anil  in 

wai':  but  Ibi)  combing  a  only  peijormcd  once  or 

The  ihhatHUnti  of  the  land  of  Natal  near  capt. 

a-aumed  Ibal  of  Pirlit.    Perhaps   CemiilhiH,  to 

Ol  bonnet),  from  tii  to  ten  Inchea  high,  componl 

make  UI  beliere  more  eaailv  that  be  »a)  devcn  J^-d 

the  hod  lith  a  porer  greate,  which,  mjiing  with 
■he  hair,  faiteni  thae  £IiihIi  for  their  liirei. 

'=»1fr«.?.SfE  S.'-.-SiS" 

ancient  patriarch) ;  of  whom  It  is  laid,  thit  at  ihe 

time  tht^uame  w'a.  ch«,ged  the.  w^  called  to 

the  greatest  thing).    He  h»  written  with  no  vul- 

MODERN PLATONISH. 

gar  art,  and  with  no  (amnion  elegance.    Me  has 
^ven  new  rules  for  the  conduct  of  lile.  and  for 

pre»ed  an  alarm,  wtich  in  Hnle  ibipc  bag  been 

that  "  lair^ir,  begin  lo  mic  a  great  and  happy 

pheuiie)  igaiuH  the  Catholic  religion.    He  wis  so 

progte»;  but."  be  adda,  "1  fear  two  thing..  Ih.1 

•entiiiienu  than  those  of  Plato,  cooceniing  the 

the  «udv  of  W.t.™  will  promote  J«d-mn,  and 

nature  of  the  gods,  souls,  sacrifices,  ki.    1  have 

the  Hudv  of  (.Hitolofl-  wiU  r^ive  r,oiM.J.."     Be 

heard  him  mv*;lf.  when  we  were  Bgetlier  >t 

Hwak,tolhe«mepurpo«:  io  the  Adago,  c.  .*». 
a>Jortmohsct.ti,p,90,     Blackwell  .n  Sia  cniioui 

Florence,  say,  that  in  I  few  yean  all  men  on  the 

consent;  and  with  one  mind,  1  single  and  simple 

D^la  wenTthe  too^niTf'k^ow'edgr.  and  that 

the  fed  of  Dilplii  actually  Has  bcliercd  hy  the 

givenbvasinBleprachlng.    And  when  1  asked 
him  if  It  would  be  the  religion  of  lesiis  Christ,  or 

with  the  coontrr,  parenlige.  and  fortune!  of  the 

nppliaut.  and  many  predicliaiu  baring  been  leii- 
liedi  thai  beaide.  ilfthb.  the  ocaclei  that  hare 

the  other ;  but  a  ilurd.  which  will  not  greillv 
diAr  from  #j(b»i™,-     Tliese  words  1  heard  •  itll 

alwavi  haled  him  :  1  look  upon  him  a)  a  dan- 

kDow°&i^  ihTThe'thiDki  bat  wmething  dirine  ■■ 

gerom  viper ;  and  1  cannot  Oi\a%  of  him  without 

ASECD0TE3  OF  FASHION. 


■giOKj :  be  might,  periupi,  htie  bnnwtd  a  | 
■mi] ;  of  pily  or  coDlnnpl  ^  bul  Ihe  ttigob  And  ' 
Cuubaaic  DM  lot  iruuK  tlun  the  impioualhen- 

IE  wB  whrn  netbo  dkd  full  o(  nan  and  ho- 
mun,  that  the  nulicc  o'  hii  cncmiei  collected  &l] 

that  his  KbiliTicfl  miot  hjTc  been  ert*t  indeed  Id 

pmbaUe  that  thi»  ichcfne  of  impiety  vn  le«  im- 
pioui  than  wu  imasncd.  Noc  ■  few  CalhoLic 
writen  iamcDt  tlut  ais   book    wu   bgml,  and 

MatioiB,  to  live  together  in  the  moH  perfect,  the 
The  whole  wu  divided  info  three  tjookj,  llie 
inculcated  are  reported  by  GehDadiut.  who  con- 

Eper  U  enter  into  the  tnaoner  of  hit  ir^mcnti, 
,  The  impiety  ind  the  ntnvagance  of  this 
new  legialator  apoeaied.  iborc  all,  in  the  aiticla 
wbich  coocemed  religion.  He  acktiovledgei  a 
plimlitT  of  goda :  tome  nipetioc,  whom  he  placed 
■bore  the  tkeamn ;  and  the  othen  infErior,  on  this 
aide  Ihe  beiTcn).  Tbe  hm  eiisling  from  the  re- 
morett  antiquity  ;  die  dhen  yotmieer,  and  of  diffe- 
irnl  agea.  He  gave  a  king  to  alt  lUeK  goda  ;  and 
be  caTled  him  ZErl.  or  Jupiitr,  aa  the  pwani 
named  thia  powet  foimerlv.     According  lo  him. 


;."%•; 


plalODic  phikiiaphy,  in  Ihe  preaent  day  nligioualy 
pmlefaa^WyfAfumr  At  Ihe  cJc«e  of  the  eighteenth 
century,  be  ir  recorded,  were  publiahcd  many 


lo  be  taugh(  10 

Vcnun   and  Ch...,  ..,.- 

literary  lunacy  may  aprear, 


It  to  be  adored,  and  we  arc 
God,  JnpilcTi  Ihe  VifgiD, 
CujHd*     And  the  niaiTof 


prudent  and  reserved.    The  platonic  furor,  how- 

The  IbHowing  remarkable  anecilo«e  hai  been  giren 
by  SI.  Poii,  in  his  "  Eauls  hiitotiqoej  aur  Pam,~ 
In  the  reign  of  Louii  XII.  a  acholai  named  Hemon 

reading  and  •dminncthe  Creek  and  Latin  writen. 
became  niad  enough  to  penuadc  himaelf  Ihat  il 
was  impoaaible  that  the  religion  of  aucb  neal 
geniniea  as  Homer,  Cicero,  and  Virgil  was  a lalte 
one.     On  the  i5tli  of  August,  iu],   being  at 


that  Jupiter  was  Ihe  Knereign  God  of  Ihe  uninne, 
and  that  there  waa  no  other  puidise  Ihan  Ihe 

hral  had  hit  tongue  plefced,  and  hia  hand  cut  (>fN 
Thus  perished  an  ardent  and  learned  youth,  who 
oughl  only  to  have  been  condemned  h  ■  Bed- 

Hott,  the  mnt  rational  of  our  modem 

ravaganl  lemin,  and  wit  inllaled  with  qpMism 
ind  cnthusUsm,  as  much  as  *|H>  of  bit  myNic 
-  '  -  eHora.  He  cancsved  that  he  held  aB  Inttr- 
wilh  Ihe  dlriniv  iiaelf  1  that  he  had  been 


not  Icaa  vacillating,  and  perhapa  more  capriclouily 
tbe  present  generation.    Were  a  philosopher  and 


vDuT  to  conceal  some  defbrmlty  of  the  Inventor ; 
hence  Ihe  cuahions,  rurta,  hoopi,  and  other  mon- 
strouB  devices.  If  a  lelgning  beauty  chanced  In 
havean  uneuual  hip,  thi^  who  had  rery  handaome 
hlpt  would  load  them  with  Ihat  false  nimp  which 
Ihe  other  waa  compelled  by  the  utikindnoa  of 

England  in  rtie  reign  of  Edward  VI.  by  a  foKlgn 
lady,  who  in  Ihia  manner  Ingeniously  covered  a 


ANECDOTES  OF  FASHION. 


1.   wo  DblMd   tl 
o  1  wonoaTir  n 


taaia   btTC   frtqtieoUy  origimlnl   finm    cir 

, ,[»cci  u  ally  B  Ih«  (DllDwidd  DttC-    lubcUt 

dtu^ter  c4  Hlilip  IT-  ud  «il«  r^  tbe  Archdnkt 
AlKTl.  rcmd  ml  Id  ciumrt  hct  liim  tUI  OlTcru 


■uppoani  colour  af  the 


old  Frencli 
.  one,  of  ine  Udia  cirrtinu 


nnpliiir  dinr  tyo  ii 


tfouDd  (lut  tbw  abi^cii  of  Timtjr  vnt  ^« 
hrou^t  inTo  pablk  bir  the  moM  mcrrlticioi 

ol  the  court  vctitarc  to  weir  tbern ;  bm  loi 
«rty  fmt^  ttrvdnr,  wii]  wear  them '"  So< 
iDd  the  ibiord  miaucrror  rhr  oriuni,  eve 
™«  clwo.  JO  Jj^Jf^^  ™-ii|°  "d"™^ 

4  «  vofy  ut  «  tnck  pU>ed  «fl  on  i  c 
'*  Sir  Philip  Ctlrhrop  puned  iohn  l>nkef » 

M^''  It  ^   tf  tiu  gnllfmtm'i  nt.    Thti  knigbl 


in  Dnkn,  ji  thoetniker  oF 


r^Ar  ^ttutd  havi  hii  madt  ^.    Nfrf  Ions  xF 
'  hia  gowD,  poceiving  the  like  cloth  Jnoglberc, 


:a  fiiish  both  Iheir  gumenti.  John  l>nka 
t  (imr  ro  goto  the  Uvlor'iTiUChriitfnaidiy, 
Ting  h»  cmTomeri.  »hen  be  hoped  to  *■ — 

jK  ID  one  j^  hum  inolher.    Bag*,  *htn  firu  in 

md  dotted  over  the  thouldcTt*  vhich  is  ei4ct]y 
rcTcned  in  the  pmcnt  Fuhum.  In  Iheycii  Tfjj 
Ihe  men  had  no  hati  but  a  little  chtpeiu  de  bi^ ; 
in  114$  <hty  WOK  >  vnv  «.J1  h«j  in  <TM  Oxf 

Puctcnhjm.  in  hi,  lerj-  rire  ■■otk,  "The  An  o( 


:xi; 


c  age,  4-Dutd  a  gailaal 


A.VECPUTt'S  OF  FASHWX.                                       Si  | 

heard,  bv  which  he  b«imt  h  duBuitfiil  li.  ihe 

PBhioiu  indeed  hare  been  eaitied  lotoexna..- 

ntsorouTgueeDEIcjDDT. 

gu.1  a  length  a.  M  have  become  a  public  nflrnce. 

We  tumCFt  eriiuiH  miiiMihiie  •ilh  the  (celiniB 

tbe  rage  in  Frani.T.  that  ctiarlc.  V.  w»  cnmiKlled 

to  baSiA  Ihi.  diiRDtHnK  mode  by  edict.  wbKh 

mivbe  InundinMeleray.    An  llalUn  anthor  nf 

the  lifteenlb  centurr  luppoKi  an  liaUan  traiellet 

of  nice  mode«y  wniild  oot  fast  Ihrmiith  Fnmce, 
thai  he  might  tut  be  oftnded  by  Hsmg  men 

in   gnurV   ne.   Ill   Inlhrit,    In   hit    Uemcnn  of 

Bducition.  puhHihEd  in  t^s.  thinlo  that  "hahr 
EiCTFineDt."  u  Annado  in  "  Lovc'i  Labour  I.inl " 

bid  il.    II  i«  enriont  that  Ibe  Terv  tame  fathkin 

wn  the  mmpliinl  in  the  remoter  period  nf  our 

■aj^  "1  hare  1  ijToutable  i^nina  of  that  j-oung 

ChaDCet,  in  hit  Pinon-1  Tale. 

to  the  reign  of  nur  Rlinbetb  Ibe  rererar  of  all 

time  he  nnploy)  in  4dju>tin^dKBidg,Bnd  curling 

them,  i)  no  Idaiimci  for  the  moR  be  coburi- 

breccbo  wL  puUed  In  a  mnit  laughable  eim>. 

Plata  hi>  miHtachina,  the  mure  hii  mind  niH 

(hertih,  and  be  animated  hy  muculme  and  a«- 

with  rag.,  feathers  and  other  light  matler^  1.11 

ragEoiu  notioni."     TTlc  belt  mam  Ibat  ennid  be 

tfren  foi  wearing  Ihe  It^ifiu  and  Lirita  btari  m 

tKle.  thev  were  nhliged  to  lalte  tcalloldi  lOr  Ihe 

in'Eliijbeth'.  rei™,  "  Ihit  no  ad  of  hn  Jife  might 

aeali  of  iheic  ponderoui  beam.    To  accord  with 

thin  fantaitical  ta«e  the  ladin  invented  large  hoop 

CromweU,  the  iiteraiy  friend   of  Pnpe,  by  hei 

accoDnt,  "  wii  verv  nice  in  the  mode  of  Ihal  age. 
his  ral«    being  tome  houn   evety  moroing  in 
iuml»«f  U,  ita-d  •nio'ri.ng  a,, ■whiikr-n  during 
which  nine  he  wai  alwavi  read  In."     Taylor,  the 

ceding  rcign  Ihe  fashion  nn  on  tiuate-'toet  i  ln»- 

lon  ihould  wear  ihoei  above  tin  inchei  tquare  al 
Iheloef    Thentucce«dedplcked.p<^ntead.oe.l 

The  nation  waa  again,  in  the  nign  of  Elliabeth. 
put  under  Ihe  royal  aulborily.  '•  In  that  time," 
uya  honeit  John  llawe,  "he  wa9heldlhegRtle<l 

in  Grey^^HndilS^  VoL  l".  3»""The  ^"'d. 

a-K-Si  i-:rj!Sf  ■i.r.s 

gallant  that  had  Ihe  irrfril  ryf  tnd  Haaril  rafUr  ■ 
the  offence  In  the  eye  of  Ihe  one.  and  hurt  unio 

hccame  eilinct  in  the  reiim  of  Jamci  IL,  ai  if  Ita 

aiaimi  tUtm  iMt.  and  to  flm  ulrtin  trnt  mi. 

Tbe  hall  h»  ia  aU  agea  been  an  endleta  topic 
for   the   deetamation  oT  Ihe   mcxallu,  and  the 

»«  .t  nf^y  IM.  IP  -t  th.  rt,ft,  «4  »«.**(*, 

yeanl  in  length  of  their  laplets  ami  ■  nayk  of  a 

yeard  in  deplb  of  their  mffea."    lliete  "grare 

the  pnachen.  u  in  Charlct  Ihe  fleconil"t  reign. 

eilHens"  il  every  gate  cultlnj  the  nilli  ami 
breaking  tbe  nplen..  mi«t  dtmfitl™  have  en- 

inttantly  were  teen  in  Ihe  pnip<t  with  their  hair 

cut  .h.^.  and  their  temlnn'^lon^.  In  cotne- 

qoeocei  retpecl  wai  hownxr  r^i  by  thewwU 

nubhom  oppnaltkm  |  but  lhl<  Kgnlalkm  w»  In 
tb«.piril«flhalige,detpotka.Hlefl«t.i.l.    THe 

EHseSS^l  'Iris 

lo  tiop  eteiv  pattengir  who  wore  pantaloons  and 
wMi  ihtlr  hiW<  to  (ut  mT,  upon  Ihe  leg.  the 

Teiy  dabertK  i  it  wit  ml  only  curled  and  Mirted 
wilK  Ihe  niceit  m,  but  iMDir with  «Rain  aniliciil 

olftndlng  pan  nf  tbew  lupelfliunit  heeche*  i  « 
Ibal  ■  mmH  leg*  deprndrrf  greatly  on  Ihe  adrolt- 

letimoT  Ararl-»r>aIfTl'tnd  (MV-lv/l.     «0  lale  at 

ne»  and  hnrnmity  of  a  go«  or  1  Towk  .  how- 

ever,  Ihh  war  againl  ftnlaltm  wa>  very  «.cce«- 

William  and  Mair.  ladi,  and  even  children,  won 

ful,  and  obtained  a  complete  lilumph  in  favour  ol 

wip ,  and  if  th^  h^not  wip,  they  cniled  Iheir 

the  tr«,/i„  in  the  eouite  of  the  week. 

moat  venerable  lolly.    In  the  rein  of  Richard  II. 
their  dreti  wat  lumpluaui  beyorfl  belief.  «lr  Jnlin 

It  it  obterved  by  Ihe  llrrli  Vigneul  de  Marrllle, 
that  there  arc  flagrani  folliet  Tn  riibloB  which 

Aruodel  bad  a  cbuip  o(  no  Iw  Ih.n  ja  new  «il, 

mmt  he  endured  while  Ihey  rtign.  and  which 

never  appear  ridiculnn.  till  Ih'ey  art  ont  or  faahion. 

allthnMenHlioutluin7ofdie»,    Chaucertq'^ 
they   had   "chaiinae  of  clnlhing  everie  dtl*." 
Brantome  record,  of  Eliaabeth.  Queen  o(  rtiUip  II. 

In  Ihe  reign  of  Henry  III.  of  rrtnce,  they  could 

All  Ihe  world,  Ihe  graTe  lod  the  «y,  carried  In 

■loni  "when  Ihe  O^ oT GuletwuSl^u  Mols 

be  wai  found  wiiti  hit  comiU-bn  in  hiihand.- 

three  Ihetnand  dillerml  hihitt  in  her  waidrolK' 

ANECDOTES  OF  FASHIOS. 


The  Citholic  nll^n  fau  n«  coiuidCTud  the 
Mnp  o<  the  f  leticiLlubit  u  Dot  the  lEightai  pan 
;  iU  RlkglolH  ccTcmoiUQ;  IhriTderDDon  ii  id' 
T«rd  1o  Ibe  eye  of  the  people,  [n  the  rdgn  of 
jr  Cubollc  Qncen  Mvv,  the  dien  af  i  prieil  wn 


■one'*  Tale"  the  RotetqucHBd  iherortlyfishionj 
of  his  day;  and  the  liinplictlf  of  the  veoeriblf 

pber.     Much,  and  funouidy,  have   hia  cauitic 

"moehe  ■upetilluitee»"  and  "waM  of  cloth  in 

Id  die  ipitit  of  the  good  oLd  time*  he  cateutalea 

entlentmR  oi  lianing ;  oundiag  or  wavy  i  paling 
or  imitating  paiet ;  and  winiUitg  w  bending  ■»  the 

Hning  of  chceel  to  maken  hole*  (that  ia  punrhed 
with  a  bodkin) ;  lo  mocbe  daggin^  of  thmt  (cut- 
ting into  tlipa)  i  with  Ihe  luperAailH  in  length  of 
the  gounea  trailing  in  Che  don£  ud  in  the  rnyre, 
on  hoTV  ud  eke  on  foot,  aj  wel  of  tnan  ai  of  wo* 

poor  folk,"  who  might  be  clothed  only  out  of  the 

vanri^'.  But  Ihen  hii  panon  i>  not  IcH  bitter 
agairr^t  "the  hoirible  diwrdlnal  acantneve  of 
clothing,"  and  verycopiniulybedeKTibni,  [bough 
perhaps  in  lerma,  and  wiUi  a  bunvmr  too  coame 

ai  if  ihe\'  were  the  hinder  part  of  a  ifaeape  in  tbe 
ful  of  the  mane."  He  noticei  one  of  the  moat 
grDlew)ue  of  all  modeft ;  the  oiK  Ibey  then  had  of 

white  and  part  red  i  to  Ibat  tbey  looked  a]  f  they 

black  1  or  b\tci.  and  ted ;  that  thii  eaiiety  of 

Tupted  by  St,  Antban>'*<  tire,  or  by  cancer,  or 

that  they  atfordcd  perpetual  Ibod  lor  the  eager 

The  cnwiucsb  of  Edward  111.  introduced  the 
French  faibioru  into  England;  and  (he  BcoUh 
adopted  them,  by  their  alliance  with  the  French 

Walainghain  date*  the   introduction  of  French 


lena  in  ipeaking  the  French  languagi 


■rologue  to  the  PrioTCHe, 


II  hniah  hm.  for  we  tonof  tbeir  ihoct 

. in  the  manner  of  a  thntth  window. 

The  ladle*  of  Ibat  period  were  not  leii  fanlaitical. 
The  wild  virietv  of  diwnei  worn  in  the  reign  of 
Heni^  VIII.  ii  alluded  to  in  a  print  of  a  naked 
BngliibmaD  hr>1diDg  a  piece  of  clolb  haiiRing  on 
bit  right  arm^andapairof  Thearain  his  left  hand. 

of  thoK  daya.    1^  print  bean  the  following  in- 

I  am  an  Englishman,  and  naked  I  itand  here. 

At  a  lover  period,  about  the  rrign  of  Eliaabeth, 


dots,  and  correct  inctum  of  the  linKa.--Thl>  ii 


of  aucb  evtic  onunenia,  and  a  contetnpt  of 


ASiCDQTES  OF  FASHION. 


The  faahtoiu  of  Ihr  Elijabethfln  Jg?  hare  b«D 

^bronifkr  o'  mAttcTV  not  grave.  Tlic  chninal^y 
of  nirK  *nd  mned  udeua ;  the  revolution  dI  itccl 

Ekiii}-4tic)Lt,iratculaf  boDeorwood  ukiI  bvlhi; 

total  rout  of  iboe-nnet ;  thlt  gfUld  advenluR  of  a 
cendp  Flemiih  ladj-,  who  Iniroduced  the  in  ol 

while  Mn.  Monlaguc  emulated  ber  in  the  royal 
faivuT,  by  prcfentlnB  her  hiohneaa  the  queen  with 
•  pair  of  black  iirk  •tockingi,  inUeid  of  her 

tint  bronght  (torn  ItAljr  the  vhole  rnyHteiy  aod 
craft  of  ptrfumer^'i  lod  coHly  wuhet ;  and  unong 

pair  of  verfutned  gloiv*  trimmed  with  roso,  in 

actually  pictured  with  those  kIov'c*  on  her  royal 
banda,  and  for  many  yean  after*  the  acent  wai 
nailed  Ibe  Earl  of  Oxford'!  Perfume.    Thne.  and 


of  Erace  and  tlegauce  river  had  not  the  ilightest 


:tbitunlortunate  lady,  whoK 
,  riiiug  above  bead:  wIua: 
ig  waUted  ai  to  reach  to  hct 


icayi»  or  bodice, 

farlhin^Ue,  which  lecmi  to  eocloK  iier  in  a  capa- 
doui  tub,  raaik  her  outaaane  of  Ihe  moat  pItUble 
marnrnotandentmodet.  Tbeamorout  sir  Walter 
Haleigh  mnit  have  found  lome  of  (he  mdida  of 
hwwuT  the  moit  impregnable  fortificalian  hii 
gaUaut  ^irit  ever  aiaaUed :  a  ewtp  df  main  wu  ini' 


liitria  Montage,  ai 


jIlH    llllil    4li 


upon  kolcmu  dayei.  Cuibeut,  and ' 
of  welvet  and  damaike,  rbirnerl^ 
jumilure.  now  he  very  pleuteoua  in 

"  MilloDcn  Dt  haberdasher*  bad 
giotrti  imbfojtttrr^,  or  trimmed 
lilkej  oclEher  gold  nor  imbroydei 

queene,  the  Right  Honourable  B< 


leather  jerkin,  and  other  fUtual  tAln/i;  and  that 
yeere  Ihe  queene  had  a  ^ir  if  fntmU  rinti 
trimmed  only  with  four  tuAea,  or  njtj  ^  tZaurti 
i&k.  The  queeibc  tooke  auch  pleaiure  in  thoae 
glavea,  that  ahe  waa  pictured  with  IhoK  glovea 
upon  her  handei,  and  lor  many  yein  after  It  war 
called  '  TAi  Eart  ^  Oxftrd"!  ptrfiam- " 

and  here  we  find  it  treated  with  ttie  utmost  histo- 

"In  the  year  151)4,  Mistrli  DInghen  Van  den 
Haase,  borne  at  Tcnen  in  Plaunden,  daughter  lo 
1  worshipfull  knight  of  tbit  province,  with  her 

and  there  professed  henelfir  a  tlatshrr,  wherein  she 
iirelled,  u •-—  ' ■ - 


ibenlly  lor  her 
°iSX</wi,  which  »u 


nt  them  lo 


"!-'Jud'lhen!teT' 


.'uii':;;: 


ruj,  ^  a 


L-jsa 


rbich  (bow 


ASixbijTi:.<  OF  FA:Jiiro.y. 


•llU^iOB.  <o  OiK    1 

hum,  (KTfUlIKl,  pu 

iiti>liiIcuidRd,Iir.    Oh  of 

Ihn.  pnme  cnma 

«  wi>  ■  lm]ucD<  inc  DC  Ibc 

MK,  ind  Ibc  >ppli 

nipi  lo  nuke  Ihe  Ikc  of  i 

penpinr^dTiAnwirdi  Jub 

liB&«»llh»iK, 

ind  "  K  ibould  be  bolb  bire 

Brltuh  Hioon.'-  1 

ofShmobuiy,  who 

bid  <he  keeping  of  the  unfor- 

flUtto  (nu/uJ  .a  w 

«>'.  tnd  tompliir.  q(  tbe  em. 

fuilbet illoa.oct.  Alumni 

Scwchprot™!™ 

TTL^  ™'"iS'?""S^ 

onudeibiihofrxi/t.    Elder 

boutto»=<A.J,..« 

m.  Id  gel  lid  ofUicir  wrintlo  j 

.Dd  fi«*>i»  Da>  ., 

haul  nuon,  wiiie  being  ■  grnl 

kled   bciuliel  tollui  u  Ml/l, 

ID  pncni  Ihe  uO 

Ouf  vcntriWe  b» 

were  imtulcd  nHluFtla  i  and  Uk   in>Ucho  of 

thiir  loUctK  mighl 

PRDch  fidiioni.   1 

1  litlk  lighur,  bul 

Jjernowi  etfcei  of  dec.  ud 

Khkh  DO  dcubt  it 

IBd    ihtTttdilTo 

piinKt,  Sif  Prm  Lety.  hu  b«o  obtcrvid.    The 

^^d.s^?.i;;l;.• 

II.  eisDKd  ber  bieM  >[>d 

KJ'toio^'J'^bUM 

iu>'.   Thii  cuuom  Dt  buiDi! 

dK  iMon.  »■«  much  ™:]»m,«l  «-in,l  by  Ihi 

.    Ttulboneit 
1  pirficc  14  ■  book,  CDtilled  "  A 

In  io)J  a  bock  vm  pub^tbeil. 


tfliaxT,  rritfrJ  »rAuit,  Unit  >^i  (or  pitdkci}.  ud 
DOW  |frevAilrd  Among  ibe  Lidie^  of  ifnngcly  onu- 


d,  and  a  plain  white  kerchief  oi 


ilcbed  *  lib  a  icalDDa  eye  ^'  tf 


singulvily  id  itiU  i0eaing  them,  "Thou  dear 
U'lU  SlufitTini,  how  ihaJL   I   draw    iheej    Thou 

ablf  part  of  hit  annual  eipenditure.  Hii  Urge 
black  periwig  C44t  him.  eyen  at  Ibal  day,  no  iea 

in  Ihii  degree  of  nlratigabcc.  Bul  tuch  a  vig 
vai  Ihe  idol  of  fashhtu^  and  tbrr  were  perfonning 
perpcluallf  tbcir  uunhlp  urith  Inlinile  self^fom- 
placeocy}  comhing Ihcirnip  in  public wai  then 
ibe  very  ipiril  of  gaUnDlry  aDd  rank.    Ibc  hem 

bim  lo  be.  a  Tcpresented  vailiag  ir  an  aaugna' 
lioiv,  and  ddcribiug  hi«  Hideringi  id  bad  weather 

dripping  siffi  the  hoai  fiosi  diaoli  Idk  on  ibcm." 

Die   head-lrasn  of  Ihe  bdiel  in  QuceD  Anne'i 

tforiei  bigli ;  and  x  fafhiuoahic  lady  of  that  day 
mucbreiemblei  Ibc  mjIbDlogicalEigurenf  C>belC) 
the  irvother  of  the  godt^  Milh  three  towcn  on  ber 


the  dreu  of  a  danJ;  i>  dncribcd  In  the  iDipedai 

ytUrtii  relKI  liRei he\  and  Mm  Hacking    Thi 
loo  wai  Ibe  lera  of  (i^il  nit  traclui  -.  an  eitra 


■upectcd  HKb  a  genUcmaD  to  have  been  one  of 
our  cusicmporanei.    "A  ceal  of  light  greeD.mth 

brceclien  willioul  money  iD  the  pocket) ;  clouded 

•iic  of  lia-pente  on  a  block  nol  worth  a  fir- 


rt  which  Ih^  frequently  enhibit' 

julv  in  dies  imkpendenl  of  all 

kiofpoppca,  Ihe  conxirl 

cda^irn/(i<r/a<.,  to 

n  hiiinc  (ulkr  play 

ml^l  Ihink  hi)ibc~ 


A  SElfATE  OP  JESVtTS. 


""zTsiT:^ 


Thy  utloB  locki  of  aoM  debfe, 
iDicmDifoldilheircbirTniconceil, 

Aad  ^(^,  kt  every  touch,  ■  gtacr  ^ 
Too  fwcct  th7  youth**  cncbiDting  blooi 
Ut  wtIdUhI  ige  Ihc  night  CDn>ume  -. 


There,  u  in  crery  Jock  of  gold 

So  ittc  rude  Tvtar'f  boly  nte 
Then  tnmhieil  in  Ihc  mortaW  liglK. 


A  SENATE  OF  J  J 
Ih  m  book  entitled  "InleH 
c  Kohui  1  CalajDc,  i6M," 


mrt,  with  KuKovy,  and  Tuury,  co 


ifCTfUl  encmief,  he  lalLed,  during  ht^een  nan, 
:ie  Bbipe,  hy  ibe  uvice  of  the  JewiD,  w^ 


iDiEnortfl  i  the  lutHttlbn  ^  La 


™.rt^lty;conlr 


hoh'wnAte^  The  archhahop  rose,  and  «id, "  fiiiKO 
Sigiimond  has  dbdaiDcd  lo  be  our  king,  wc  ibo 


'"^'t^fL^ 


you  all  o(  the  fidelity  the  kJng  mty  cliim  ( 

thit,  the  piince  of  Bithyniji  iddroaing  himadf  to 

PHnce  Charles,  uncle  of  thv  kinr  --'■■  "'— 

other  king  thiH  -  - ■"' 


"h^fiij; 


ftom  Stockholm,  thit  they  mif^l  entci 

Shad  prepared  would  appeu  lo  the 
anuge.  Atout  the  time  of  theit  re- 
"lincc  Charles,  acirompanied  b^  tvenly 
irty  voKb,  Appeared  before  tbii  senate, 
about  and  (aiming  a  ciraml  of  ships. 


tssidet  pierced  through  with  I 


n  the  contraiy.  their  uuilanli  i 
al  this  was  (he  time  to  perfom 


lo  Ibe  town,  Chirlci  eDIered  tnumphantly ; 

conchidc  Ibe  ni^t,  he  pHtook  of  the  en- 
menl  wtaicb  had  been  pitpand  (or  Ibit  ID- 


THE  LOVER'S  HEART^THE  HISTORY  OF  OLOVES, 
liD  o(  the  cilr  of  StKkholin  birl 


MeniDlis  of  Cbunptgnc,  by  Bcu^CT^     It  hu  been 


"vvhicb  pcnJi-cntnR  you  m 

Clump4j[iK,  wu  ODC  of  the  mo* 
puiioD,  the  itif  of  the  Lord  Du 
Knd  this  July  heard  from  her  lore 


cpvereif  hU  h^met.    Thia  he  gntcfuUy  Accepted, 
gloiiouily  ■Kendmg  the  r»mp»rt>,  he  rcceiicd  a 


pracolt  to  the  lady  of  Du  Vajel.    I 
p  appnMThed  the  caHle  of  thit  lady,  ... 
bimicU'  IB  (be  Dei^bouring  wood,  till 


>f  bU  lift  if  he  did  Dot  divulge  the  Dccaaion  of 
FiiimuTn.    ThefquiTeaMUTTdhim  (hat  bii  maitcT 

iword  on  him.     This  man,  frightened  at  the  peril 
in  which  he  fOond  himself,  confeved  enTr^lhingi 


her.    The  !»=»  ale 


would  not  bcliei-e,  till  he  ihowed  her  the  letter  of 
rnoDds  the  had  Kii-eo  him.    Then  shuddering  in 

lortd  thai  heart,  became  il  metileil  to  be  loved  -. 


Ln™.'^ol'x.  p.  18^.  '  '  «po  ■"■ 
the  lefirh  Pulm.  iHicre  the  royal  prophet  dcclara 

ufually  traiiidalrd  thot  by  the  Chaldee  paraphnni 
in  the  latter  is  rendered  gloii€.  Casaubon  ii  c 
opinion  thai  iltTii  were  worn  h^  the  Chaldeani 

the  Chaldean  panphnat  taken   a   liberty    in    hi 

gln^i.  spakJDf  of  the  manDcta  of  the  fttvian . 
aa  ■  pnof  of  tb^T  eflemiucy,  he  obterre^  thai 


THE  IirSTOSr  OF  GLOVKS.                                     B,  j 

feet,  they  lUw  guirdcd  tficir  h'andi  t^lnH  the 

of  inveitiluie,  threw  hii  glrti  among  the  ciowd  ; 

inlreating  it  might  be  conveyed  to  wme  of  hit 

•<l  *il  haiiU.  ••  innTi  •hmfTtm  It.  Ikcnu.    J-irro, 

liken  up  by  a  knight,  and  biought  Hi  p^ler  king 

of  Amgon,  who  in  eittue  Of  thu  glove  wa»  after- 

i.  K,  Bi.j<k^  he  «J■^  IhM  oU™  githeied  by  tlie 
Diked  hand  »e  ptefenbk  lo  thOK  gilhntri  with 

A>  Ihe  deUvery  of  jJovh  was  once  a  pan  of  ihe 

ceremony  uwd  in  giving  pcmesBOB.  sn  the  de- 

priving a  penon  of  Ihem  was  a  malk  of  divnling 

who  ilwiyi  ciRie  to  tihle  with  rlnvi  on  hii  hindi, 
Ih»t  he  night  be  .ble  lo  hindlc  ind  eit  the  mcu 

of  CarlBle,  in  the  icign  of  Edward  Ihe  Second, 

while  hot,  ind  devout  mote  thin  the  ten  of  the 

"r^'^iulhaTilia  diow  thil  the  aneienD  wen 

»ngham,  rtliting  other  circumiluices  of  his  de- 
halchel;  ana^'it/tovo  and  ihoea  were  tiken  off. 

UK  wu  DOI  common.    In  a  hot  cllnuie  to  weit 

glorei  impliei  ■  coniidenble  degtee  ol  efleminacy. 

Another  dk  of  (fR/(i  wai  in  a  duel;  he  who 

We  cm  moR  cleitly  ttice  the  eiiLy  me  of  gtoxi 

Ihiew  one  down,  wu  b.  Ibis  icl  underMood  to 

give  defiance,  and  he  who  took  il  up,  lo  accept 

incient  levetity  of  imnnen  declined,  the  luc  of 

IhechiUenge. 

l^tvii  rnrailed  iniong  Ihe  Komaui  but   not 

Ibi  a  trill  of  innocence,  like  Ibe  oideah  nf  hre  and 

S?.Si"K-,.'^,K',S'!,KE.{K 

tectlMi  igiinH  the  cotruntion  of  the  age,  an, 
II  il  ihaifUftd  ,Ur  frmu  )■  taStti  KaitK  i*nM 

madetEeuaeginetll.     niiiythe'TOUiigninliniiu 

year  ijji.    The  dispute  was  concerning  tome 
landi  in  Ihe  county  of  Kent.    The  pUiatifb  ap- 

i?ui°ihi  hiSi!i?j=2i?lr^''hiir™iX  w^iK 

pean'd  in  court,  and  demanded  single  combat. 

One  of  IhL-m  threw  down  his  (frfi,  which  Ihe 

down  whatevet  occurred  remirtable  j  arid  that  he 

nlher  immedijlelv  taking  up.  carried  il  oH  on  Ibe 
point  of  hi<  sword,  ind  ilte  day  of  hghtitig  wu  ip- 
pointcdi  Ibis  albir  wa<  Imwever  a^luMed  by  the 

hid  rlrtti  on  hit  hiDdi,  thil  Ihe  coldun  of  the 
weilhei  might  not  impede  hii  btwucn. 

church  thoughl  a  regutation  in  thii  pirt  of  dre« 

neCDHI)-.     In  Ihe  reign  of  Lruiii  Ir   D»*Minjirf. 

land,  by  hi.  majeflyll  chimpion  ente^Tog  We«- 

Ihe  cnuuc.l  of  Ail  STdeied  Ihat  Ihe  nionki  ihould 

minster  Hidl  com^ely  armed  and  mounted. 

only  wen  iln'ii  made  of  iheepikin. 
Thai  lime  hu  made  altcrationi  in  Ihe  forni  of 

Ihij,  u  in  HI  other  appiicl,  appein  from  Ihe  old 

aflmnt,  to  Kod  a  glni  lo  Ihe  odimding  party  ii  a 

chUlenge  to  i  duel. 

GIrvii,  baiie  Ihtir  otiginil  deiign  fOr  ■  carer- 

The  lail  use  of  glriiii  wa»  lor  carrying  the  liavri. 

and  other  great  men  look  so  much  pleaiute  in 

cirr)ing  the  biwk  on  their  hand,  that  some  of 

Ihem  bavechOKu  to  be  reprcKuted  in  ibi>  alliturie. 

bom  ind  Konceico  were  pul  into  poMxion  of  j  kn^h,  on  hit  lomb,  holding  1  il<-i/i  in  hii  hind.     | 

iheiT  tea  hy  rcceiringaffeM.    It  uai  thought » 
oienlial  ■  [itl  ol  Ihe  epiMpal  habit,  thai  umc 
ibboB  tn  France  prouming  lo  wear  glnvi,  Ibe 

bid  ,r ™  Xw*^  rte"S;ci*Vo  "^"^ 

unifcr  no  tuch  rettninl ;  tot  both  Ihw  >iul  Hie 
re«  of  the  court  mike  no  dimcnliy  or  receiving 

council  of  Foitien'  inten-^  in  the  Hfiir,  and 
foibad  them  the  uk.  on  the  Mime  principle  ai  Ihe 

hog  and  andib ,  ihe.  being  peculiir  to  bishop). 

(fnii  from  Ihe  tberiflV  whenever  ilie  vaion  or 

who  frenoently  wore  them  richly  adorned  on  ilielt 
hub  with  feweb. 

•»iie  concludei  without  any  one  leceivinf  len- 

ience of  death,  which  ii  called  a  •Midin  uiiu,  t 

FaTin  obKTTO,  that  Ibe  custom  c(  bloaingglmi 

cuitom  of  gnat  intiquity. 

Our  curious  aniinuary  hu  pmerved  a  linguiir 
inecdote  concerning  ilrvii.    Chiml>en  infirms 

ui  Ihat  il  i>  not  ufe  at  pieaenl  to  enler  Ibe  stablei 

of  princei  without  pulling  Diroun[V«'«.   Hedoei 

reJIn  wu  diprircd  of  bis  crown  and  hia  life  by 

Ibe  uiurper  M.i^l/rty.  When  hiring  ucended  Ihe 

•clITold,  Ihe   injured    prince   lamenting   his  hint 
fate,  awned  hii  Hghl  U>  Ihe  crown,  wd  b  i  token 

mSSr^lh™hir*L^."S^lt°hi.K""""wV^S 

JtEirCS  OF  SA/XT.^. 


t  huQtimcQ  and  krrpen-    The 


meet  with  Ihe  tmn  gln.i-nuiuj  in 

>  boy  glovti.    Tha  pnjbably  u  lb 
pTiraK  fn'ftf  a  fair  V  S^fiw  t^ 


ABl'hony  IMiiiiT  wen  wM  for  jSI.'  iji.l  tIukc 
K>vn>  t^'  Jamil  I.  to  hil  non  blmnl  Ucnny  far 

Sir'Edwml  Dtnnyi  EdJ,"!!!-  4'-  i  >"  wW^h  »mc 
baaght  Tor  Sir  Thonut  Di:tiav  of  IreLmd*  who  w;a 
dtscvrnk-d  in  x  direcl  Jine'froai  Ihc  gml  Sir 
Anlhony  Ocnny,  one  of  rhe  eieculon  ot  Uk  will 

REUCS  OP  SAINTS. 

WRtK  Hba  oE  ulnu  wcR  linl  innoduccd,  the 

relKiiK-mADiawatoniveinli  they  bou^t  .iod  tbe> 

rich  (hemsclve*  utilh  thw  itlijio'iu  mdneii  i  theiT 

vcEutor,  ind  Ihe  gnod  faith  aihl  «nceniy  oE  the 
puithuer.     The  prelate  of  Ihe  place  vmeTima 


her  rrhcj  vinr  bionghl  (nim   England  to  Be^. 
pUccncy  all  the  knatrih  tnodet  they  osed  to  carry 


IT  IhCoe  in  question.     None 


monk  of  Cluny  has  gkren  a  hhlot}-  o 

I  to  rhe  Rkooa^tery  of  St.  Juan  de  la  F 
the  boJy  Kba  were  tra«ported,  and 


thu  biibop.  and  the  tliflerenl  pUta  they  concerted 

were  iwt  a  little  cheered  la  Ihejr'long  jounKj'  by 

Another  hu  vntteo  i  hinorv  of  what  he  calb  Ihe 
tiaiHlaiian  uf  the  relka  ot  tiaini  M>)e>n  to  Ihe 

only  a  •aAened  «ipreBioa  lor  ihu  ivUirI>'  of  the 

carnml  ilwm  Ml  acclrUy  10  iniicii  Ibeil  monauer) ; 
and  they  did  rtot  hesitate  at  aav  artilice.  or  lie»  to 
complete  Ibeii  doign.    Ttwy  thoiiglil  crcryihin); 

mcree.    Tbcy  vvm  regaided  their  pnue«on  wjlh 

nule  commiwoDcd  hb  ^ent  al  Rome  to  purchase 
:iainl  jtunilifu'i  arm  ftw  one  hundred  talents  of 


:i  of  uinu,  their  adKS.  Iheii  cUHhn,  or 
ortjj  ipoib,  and  even  1^  the  inniuincnia 


■  ilh  jewels.     They  doire  not  the  pmple  pai^> 


FEEPKTUAI.  LAMPS 


OF  TJ/I-;  AyC/ESTS. 

whch  Ik  cJe»cUw(HHl,  Acs' 


neks  tbey  reply  thu  the  xoul  >n 


lUl  not  be  lutlmti 
of  Uk  fiiibfL 


of  thcii 

Ibc  pdpc  Ail  pAwble  hcfliour 
I  occujon  pTCKnlnl  bim  wit 
reliti.    The  iirtncc  hiring  n 


:i  I  whs  WB  ictply  bunled  wiih  ibc  HiKMilfon  of 
i  :  tbe  11^,  Munmanci]  aJJ  the  ipiAt  in  ihe  kiDgdnm 

>  I  most  KncTaL  curicraty,  and  mialtiluja  implied. 

«  kine  Ibcn  icqiulntcd  them  tlut  the  nut 

...jMcr  at  tbe  KaiKhts  Templin  hid  lenl  liim  ■ 

M«JVrWwl>ichhch>rn_bed''u[»ii  tbt 't^'r 

--     He  ^ii.Mi£d"i 

ptocdHUD  the  fullowing  tUy,  uid  the  hiftoriu 
«dd%  Ih^it  thou^  the  nud  between  St.  hulH 
dod  WntmLibteT  Abbey  wjit  very  deev  *■"!  tnlTyi 
the  Udk  kept  hl>  eyei  cgiulintlir  flied  an  ihE 
phiil.  Two  monlLi  iMtlteJ  it,  lod  deniKd  Ihe 
pbbi  in  Ihe  abbey,  "which  mule  a]]  En^nd 


Rtcnhle  cTr>wd'     After  the 


s  nirafb  '  and  the 


impanled  by  >n  InnU' 

£"5S 

fiiice,  lifting  M 
bilb  cwiliTnied 


relics  HndGd,iiidl>y  hb  nwliniu  ndlLUkd  the  mi' 
racle.  Tbe  prinre,  indignvitly,  tonk  nur  yoQPK 
liRper  of  the  nriiatn  tuk  j  who,  on  ptomlic  ofpir- 
ilon,  iiare  the  billowlnc  uml  imaUmmH  amcvrmng; 


ecviir  elector  i  bat  tbe  tima  bad  cbaneed  1  He  ira 
which  be  ^rcd  pnmenl  Ibey  im  wOling  n 
HDCC  the  retomutwii  of  Lulheri  and  that  they 


•a:!-:.! 


:Te»ect  ffken 
le^feli,To»- 
a  fini  sf  31. 

, .  -■-  >n  ounce  of 

hItct},  beinfi  laid  EC  pledge  by  a  monaatery  for 
forty  poundu,  wu  left  unredeemed  at  the  diwH' 
. ,  j._  L ^i .  idnjji,  f^mmbil^en,  who 

.     ....    „  to  return  the  price  ag^n." 

That  is  they  did  not  chmK  to  repay  the  /on/ 

■—,a^H^,lKfi«grtttil.Aii*'ru/. 

w  the  prDpnly  ol  rejica  iuddeDly 

.  .  .         '9ea  bubble  \  Int,  thortiy  after,  tbe 

like  uf  Ihe  Rood  of  Oiace,  at  Boiler,  in  Kent, 


far-famed  relic  i 


tbe  eye  iTf  the  po 


n ;  aD<l  after  many  triali  UMially  repeated  to 
me  Ktion,  the  deluded  pdeiima  at  length  u 
lar  lullr  aattslkil.    Tliii  relic  waa  Ihe  NttJ 


thought  proper.    The  ncce?a  of  the  pilgrim  de- 
._ in  their  oHerinp  were  the  loogett  to  pel  a 


PERFETUAL  LAKra  OF  THE  ANaEKTS. 


rFli[%  among  wblcb  were  a  bit  of  tbe  fincer  of  the  j  ti 
Holy  GiiCRt,  m  Kund  and  entire  a*  it  had  ever  \  ii 
Ixen ;  the  nnpl  oS  Ibe  ictmphim  (hat  appeared  to  ■  p 

of  Ihe  ribi  of  Ibe  virtiim  Hft/uclinii  (tbe  word  i  fa 


■dniiaMirtl^^ai^^M 


92 


NA TURA L  PROD UCTIONS,  ^c. 


It  has  happened  frequently,  that  inquisitive  men, 
examining  with  a  flambeau  ancient  sepulchres 
which  have  been  just  opened,  the  fat  and  gross 
vapours,  engendered  by  the  corruption  of  dead 
bodies,  kindled  as  the  flambeau  approached  them, 
to  the  great  astonishment  of  the^>ectators,  who 
frequently  cried  out  a  miracU  I  This  sudden  in- 
flammation, although  very  natural,  has  gi\-en 
room  to  believe  that  these  flames  proceeded  from 
perpetual  tamps,  which  some  have  thought  were 
placed  in  the  tombs  of  the  ancients,  and  which, 
they  said,  were  extinguished  at  the  moment  that 
these  tombs  opened,  and  were  penetrated  by  the 
exterior  air. 

The  account*!  of  the  perpetual  lamp^  which 
ancient  writers  give  have  occasioned  several  inge* 
nious  men  to  search  after  their  composition.  Li- 
cetus,  who  possessed  more  erudition  than  love  of 
truth,  has  given  two  receipts  for  making  this 
eternal  fire  by  a  preparation  of  certain  minerals ; 
an  opinion  in  vogue  amongst  those  who  are  pleased 
with  the  wonderlul,  or  who  only  examine  things 
superflcially.  More  credible  writers  maintain,  that 
it  is  possible  to  make  lamps  perpetually  burning, 
and  an  oil  at  once  inflammable  and  mconsum* 
able ;  but  Boyle,  asnsted  by  several  experiments 
made  on  the  air^ump,  found  that  these  lights, 
which  have  been  viewed  in  opening  tombs,  pro* 
ceedcd  from  the  collision  of  fresh  air.  This  reason* 
able  observation  conciliates  all,  and  does  not  com- 
pel us  to  deny  the  accounts. 

The  story  of  the  lamp  of  Rosicrucius,  even  it  it 
ever  had  the  slightest  foundation,  only  owes  its 
origin  to  the  spirit  of  party,  which  at  the  time 
would  have  persuaded  the  world  that  Rosicrucius 
had  at  least  discovered  something ;  but  there  is 
nothing  certain  in  this  amusing  invention. 

The  reason  adduced  by  Mar\-ille  is  satisfactory 
for  his  dav ;  and  for  the  opening  of  sepulchres 
with  flambeaux.  But  it  was  resen'cd  for  the 
modern  discoveries  made  in  natural  philosophy, 
as  well  as  those  in  chemistry,  to  prove  that  air  was 
not  only  necessary  for  a  medium  to  the  existence  of 
the  flame,  which'  indeed  the  air-pump  had  already 
shown ;  but  also  as  a  constituent  part  of  the  in- 
flammation, and  without  which  a  body,  otherwise 
ver>-  inflammable  in  all  its  parts,  cannot  however 
burn  but  in  its  superficies,  which  alone  is  in  con- 
tact with  the  ambient  air. 


NATURAL  PRODUCTIONS  RESEMBLING 
ARTIFICIAL  COMPOSITIONS. 

SoMB  Stones  are  preser\-ed  by  the  curious,  for 
representing  diitinctly  figures  traced  by  nature 
alone,  and  without  the  aid  of  art. 

Pliuy  mentions  an  agate,  in  which  appeared, 
formed  by  the  hand  of  nature,  Apollo  amidst  the 
nine  Muses  holding  a  harp.  Majolus  assures  us 
that  at  Venice  another  is  seen,  in  which  is  natu- 
rally formed  the  perfect  figure  of  a  man.  At  Pisa, 
in  the  church  of  St.  John,  there  is  a  similar  natural 
production,  which  represents  an  old  hermit  in  a 
desert,  seated  by  the  side  of  a  stream,  and  who 
hold}  in  his  hantls  a  small  bell,  as  St.  Anthony  is 
commonly  painted.  In  the  temple  of  St.  Sophia, 
at  Constantinople,  there  was  formerly  on  a  white 


marble  the  image  of  St.  John  the  Baptist  covered 
with  the  skin  of  a  camel,  with  this  only  impcr-  . 
fection,  that  nature  had  given  but  one  leg.  At  1 
Ravenna,  in  the  church  of  St.  Vital,  a  cordelier  it 
seen  on  a  dusky  stone.  They  found  in  Ittlj  a 
marble,  in  which  a  cruciflx  was  so  elaboratielj 
finished,  that  there  appeared  the  nails,  the  dropa 
of  blood,  and  the  wounds,  as  perfectly  as  the  most 
excellent  painter  could  have  performed.  At  SacU- 
berg,  in  Germany,  they  found  in  a  nntne  a  certain 
rough  metal,  on  which  was  seen  the  figure  of  a 
man,  who  carried  a  child  on  his  back.  In  Prorence 
thev  found  in  a  mine  a  quantity  of  natural  fignics 
of  birds,  trees,  rats,  and  serpents;  and  in  some 
places  of  the  western  parts  of  Tartary,  are  seen  oa 
divers  rocks  the  Hgures  of  camels,  hones*  aad 
sheep.  Pancirollus,  in  his  Lost  Antiquities,  atteab^ 
that  in  a  church  at  Rome,  a  marble  perfectljr  re- 

Presented  a  priest  celebrating  mass,  and  rating  the 
ost.  Paul  III.  conceiving  that  art  had  been  used, 
scraped  the  marble  to  discover  whether  anv  paint- 
ing had  been  employed  :  but  nothing  of  the  kiiul 
was  discovered.  "  I  ha^'e  seen,"  writes  a  Itiend, 
*'many  of  these  curiosities.  They  are  «l^vtjs 
helped  out  by  art.  In  my  father's  house  was  a  grajr 
marble  chimney-piece,  which  abounded  in  por^ 
traits,  landscapes,  &c.  the  greatest  part  of  wnicb 
was  made  by  m\-self."  My  learned  friend  the  Rer. 
Stephen  Weston  possesses  a  very  large  collection, 
many  certainly  untouched  by  art.  One  stone  ap- 
pears like  a  perfect  cameo  of  a  Minerva's  head ; 
another  shows  an  old  man's  head,  beautiful  as  if 
the  hand  of  Raphael  had  dtrsigned  it.  Both  these 
stones  are  transparent.    Some  exhibit  portraits. 

There  b  preser\'ed  in  the  British  Museum  a 
black  stone  on  which  nature  has  sketched  a  re- 
semblance of  the  portrait  of  Chaucer.  Stones  of 
this  kind,  possessing  a  sufficient  degree  of  resem- 
blance, are  rare ;  but  art  appears  not  to  hare  been 
used.  Even  in  plants,  we  find  this  sort  of  resem- 
blance. There  is  a  species  of  the  orchis  found  in 
the  mountainous  parts  of  Lincolnshire,  Kent,  Sec. 
Nature  has  formed  a  bee,  apparently  feeding  in 
the  breast  of  the  flower,  with  so  much  exactness, 
that  it  is  impossible  at  a  very  small  dbtance  to 
distingaish  the  imposition.  Hence  the  plant  de- 
rives its  name,  and  is  called  the  Bkk-Flowkr. 
Laiighome  elegantly  notices  its  appearance. 

"  See  on  that  flowret's  velvet  breast. 
How  close  the  busy  vagrant  lies  1 
His  thin-wrought  plume,  his  downy  breast. 
The  ambrosial  gold  that  swells  his  thigtu. 

'*  Perhaps  his  fragrant  load  may  bind 

His  limbs; — we'll  set  the  captive  free — 
I  sought  the  LIVING  bee  to  find, 
And  found  the  picture  of  a  bee." 

Tlie  late  Mr.  Jackson,  of  Exeter,  vrrote  to  me  on 
this  subject :  **  This  orchis  is  common  near  our 
sea-coasts ;  but  instead  of  being  exactly  like  a  bu, 
it  it  not  like  it  at  all.  It  has  a  general  resemblance 
to  ayjy,  and  by  the  help  of  imagination  may  be 
supposed  to  be  a  fly  pitched  upon  the  flower.  The 
mandrake  ver>'  frequently  has  a  forked  root,  which 
may  be  fancied  to  resemble  thighs  and  legs.  I  have 
seen  it  helped  out  with  nails  on  the  toes." 

An  ingenious  botanist,  a  stranger  to  me,  after 
reading  this  article,  was  so  kind  as  to  send  me  spe- 
cimens of  the  >fy  orchis,  0^*7'  mmeifers,  and  of 


TBT  f:-£t::ai  :-si.i^ 


TH(  rOETICAL  CARLA.VD  O 


-TlhBi. 


Ubdv,  iDcnuih,  aid  Dat^-n.    It  w»  ci:>d  The  H'«='ta>l<'(   tSe  V*;;im  liKm,  puNi'AfJ  in 

«»  oh.  it  >iU  be  Bcceun  to  gii*  the  hbti-tv  w  *•  *.  ib4  the  JuLe  W  Ihr  M  .1  irHKUIInc 

CiBUras  kinc  ol  »ir«ln,  •«  nukinii  wir  in  ""  ™  Kvolotwo  of  Flincr,  Ihn  IHnny  .u- 

pkauK  in   dRiiiing  Ibu   the  wnuld  lure  no  '""  d"cn«nwt  w  tunt  pwrluwd  thi.  hiui|ik  i 

ottKT  loTR  ihu  Cuu»i».    Thi  Duke  de  Mob-  Ihe     u^h«r'wl»^'''it  "thr    IW '•™i™''lnr 

•dmtRT.    a' it»n  Unit  liter  Ibe  dulh  M  Cuv  [|^^.  jyJht'''"TiSl™Mi\*'»  "thliSi'lnS^ 

"7i!;-.D"VhU:'"tbe'fall2SM5j'deKlSl'on!''  fcf  ""*■■•  "A  "i»d  iii«penmceJ«*nH>n,i.ho 

The  moB  bculifol  flowo^  wm   pilMed  In  ■"yhent 

erenr  flown  ■  Bufficienl  ipftce  wa  left  open  iat  ■  , 

nudrinl  on  the  lubject    of   thit   Hov-er  Htcfe 

pijnied'    The  duke  lolicired  the  vltiof  the  time  xHAf*ir  xmt^n* 

to  UHrt  in  the  compedtion  of  thew  little  noeniai  TMAtiir  Am>Rti. 

able  Dumhet  for  the  effumiu  MovrrMltui,  i  Prtiw-h  plirer,  n^  onr  o(  Ihr 

rtittni  ly  .  penmin,  H.  dn  S^f.  Jfc  died  nMlte'vi-—-  — '"-  "   —" 


Jmy,  who 

1  ipkiulid  RulBid  compiiicil 


_..._ „.   -,   „-     -   ,        pjinted.   There  It  toniethin 

tninnihceMly  hnuibd,  ind  inrlnted   tjllon<»  ifflth  i  « 
ch  Spuiih  leither.    Thii  icift,  when   nienm  lo  vhiih  I 


JOCULAR  FREACBER8. 


te;  u>dif:>bD< 

t    tutc  trifled  urtcably»  ud  hive  worked 


1  9W  tnytciS  fTcquciuly  obliged  lo  d>n  Icrrib 


-Dngequenlly  to  nnm  all  the  piTt>  of  my  hady  t 


tlml  Zan,  kben  Ac   ■ddtrscd  bim,  found  bin 
The  BnamptiDD  of  ■  waxiOy  of  chincten,  b 


<W  «  the  M^C  *^  like  Tilmrt,  nnully  in  the 
jaUrt  of  KHne  i^Qitcd  Mppnl  to  the  fcelinB^ 

bnf  Ihil  it  R^Ttd  A  thoiuind  jwi  lo  produce  a 


TCfpectins  jcton  b  not  ln>  ipplicable  to  poea 

Betlolon.  illbouffb  h4  roimtchuict  wu  ruddy 
■od  nnguioe,  when  hp|*J  All  ujH  Hunlet^  thnnigb 

mnil  hrrTTDr  II  the  pretence  of  hii  filher'*  tpcctre. 


:.  tbil  he  could  iwt  ipok  hii  pin.    Hcti 

pnncoce  in  thii  man-eUon  (ctlne :  Ihes 
nighl  dnetre  ■  phitDaoptucsi  invotinfiDn. 
Klin,  tbe  Fimch  actor,  ubo  retired  Irom  tbi 
in  Migc,  ccnTred  with  glor;-  md  gold,  irn  on. 
day  con^mlated  by  a  company  on  (be  retire 

KloTy,"  mode^ly  replied  thii  actor,  ■■  I  do  nni 


I  am  in  Ibe  |[ib£^  «ervie<,  iKbo  ilcep  npoa  j 
n  and  lavirii  my  hlood  lor  my  country,  I 

muA  conrider  nywU  ai  fertnnate  In  hatine  oh' 


be  memoin  of  Hadlle.  Clarion    dinplav  her 

tmly  niMiwe    jctor   ihould  be  a  bero  or 
ordinary  ^-oman  dnrrng  twenty  bouT»  of  ihe  day. 


JOCVLAU  PBEACHERS. 


9S 


comic  tila  oblch  have  bHD  ecFiBDn.ilIy  adopted  MalUinl  noticn  the  Mlnwlpi;  curinoi  pic- 
b*  the  moM  liceDllcnu  wrlten,  ind  minute  iiul  [  llruUn  of  Ibe  rnode  of  ihtuwf  in  Hait  in  bi< 

tima,  when  the  gmwt  Indecency  wa  nei-er  I  He  n  rinlenl  igiiiM  the  iiiothecHin  foi  llieir 
CDDCckled  under  a  f^entle  penpbnnl%  but  every-   ehens.    Thej  mix  ifinKcr  vilh  cinqjimon,  which 

forced  by  the  meat  darinc  penKmiUtKi,  And  w>- '  gitlffCT.  pepper,  uHron,  ciunanion,  jiod  pthn 
•DDcd  b)'  IboK  lemphiry  illuiioni  which  ndtbcr  I  dni^  in  damp  cellin,  Iliu   they  miy;  weigh 

» Ibeitftin  ire  lingnlariy  picrioiu,  in  th«e  I  colour,  and  in  tnike  it  weiglitier.    He  don  not 
EnniiidiEt,^ni<>B4iimuvgntlliedt^tradn|7]  forget  tliose  Iradeimien  who  put  water  In  their 

phew,  in  his  ipolovy  for  HcnKkitw,  dirvtilwn  the  j  tavern-keepcTS  who  nphi^ticile  and  mingle 
innulihitB  of  ine  age,  and  the  mintitls  of.  win^;  Ihe  hutchen  who  h!ow  up  their  meat, 
utional  manncn,  he  effcctithii  chiefly bjrenncH  I  and  ivbo  mil  hog^  lard  with  the  fit  nf  their 
Aom  iheae  •eraioni.  Their  wit  ii  not  alwayi  the  meat.  He  ivnibly  declaimi  igiinn  those  who 
brightest,  nor  their  uirire  the  most  poi^^naat  \  but   hnv  with   a  great  aUovanee  of  measure  and 

-v —  ■_  _. 1 _.,.■ .,_  ...  ..  ,|jj  ^^^\  wen^i,  and  thin  i«ll  with  a  small  measnre  and 

~    vhieh  I  weigh! ;  and  nines  those  who.  when  they  weigh. 


whose  inqui^tivc  pleas 


ra- 


ibelifore  they  shnw  gnnd  irniH 

IjOl.    Thi<  pnachrr  hiring  po 

moiuTcb  had  our  conjelier  it 
would  throw  him  into  the  rirer. 
daunted,  and   not  forgetting  h 

^^  s^°(i?i'To'"      ""' 

wiH  arri«  by  all  hi. 

file  fotlowlng  ext 

tnid  in  the  prcmt, 
M^ILaid.    "This"  K 


a  word,  these  I  pnw  the  sc 

inltitude;  and   1- — ■ 

[ul  abMLTUity  \    It 


.im  is  a  lOnnMifs 
he  money.    The  pc 


ill  gite  you  half  In 

he  pawi  bit  gnndi 


loorhes  on  Ihe  btiha  w 

in  oRin  tookt  eicunna  them* 
IR  "  the  little  pay  Ihey  otherwiie  ' 
ese  practices  be  sent  to  the  de¥il 


coM  imt  of  Uita  accDnvd  money,  tvhcn  any  one 
En  anything  to  teeeice  fnnn  the  bnshand,  he 
Bust  Ant  make  a  preient  to  the  wib?  of  some  hhe 
— wn,  or  girdle,  or  ting.    If  yon  ladles  and  gentle- 

..,ir  h'ariet  cloihB,  1  belie^-eif  you  were  closely 
put  in  t  good  pre^s.  we  should  see  the  btood  nf  the 


T,by«meai..e. 


TlM  foUno'ing  eitiscli  arc  fnnn  M< 
nons,  which  are  written  hke  HalUii 
iiitnrons  Latin  mixed  wiHi  ohi  French. 

Michael  Menol  died  In  tJiS.  t  '* 
nore  wit  than  NiiUard,  and! 


rasionally  displays 


canvawav  Pianee  Intotbeir  cnuntrv,  they  would 
at  least  oTtv  with  them  (eveial  Mocks  nf  vines  i 
they  planted  some  in  England ;  hut  these  stodu 
soon  degenetaled,  because  the  sdl  was  not  adapted 

Ijm.  and  that  ire  have  tried  so  often,  we  are  still 
Aattcrtng  ounehcs  tlut  If  we  plant  t  iueyards  we 

The  following  IteautifUl  figure  describes  those 
who  liiT  neglectful  of  their  iged  pirenis.  who 
had  cherished  Ihem  Into  prosperity.    "  See  th« 

.  - .  that  has  produced  all ;  but  when  the  branches 
are  loaded  with  Ihmen  and  with  ftvils,  Ibev  yield 
nothing  to  the  tool.  This  is  an  image  of  (hose 
childten  who  prelCr  their  own  amnsemcnts,  and 


ifparents' 

."^■"tK-'imi 


of  that  agei  "' , 

a  mitircsa  betides  hb  wiA;  ?   The  poor  | 
le  fruits  of  kdtteme^and  csn  makes  I 


been  world,  this  criiiii 


JOCULAR  PSEACRERS, 


1   well,  both   employ  lh< 


III   to  God ;  ilHl  not   do  u   Ihc   Fn^  who  i 
crying  out  lUy  and  nigbli  ■oO  think  thcjr  b«tE 

"I  hai-ctoUl  ibeoKii^Ita  Am  thai  th^ should 

•U  judgo,  counidlorj,  and  aHmiev),  in  judging 
wriitng^  ind  >lgDia|^  should  alwan  have  God 
beftm  their  eye*.  And  secondly,  Ihii  "- -■  ■- 
Qtxtt  greedy;  tl  willingly  thvt4  it*  pi 
o(hen ;  10  all  lawyers  who  are  rich  in 
after  haTlng  had  lh«r  billt  pAid,  should  di 
»me  to  the  poor,  particularly  when   t' 


or  the  girl.  Tlic  hcautv  and  perfume  of  (he  hnl 
invite  lo  trneU  and  Eo  handle  it.  hut  vhen  it  'k 
touched  underneath  il  pricki  «huply  \  the  hcauty 
of  a  girl  likewise  ini'ilei  (he  hand ;  but  you,  my 


Thc«  ample  extncli  will,  I  hope,  conter  the 
lame  pleasure  (o  the  TcjdeT,  which  I  ha%T  re- 

t(  canncH  be  denied,  displays  a  poetic  imagination, 

him  among  h»  Tivais,    The  simc  taste  and  popular 

(o  (he  simplicity  of  the  age.    In  rjjj,  our  Bishop 
Latimer  preached  a  lermon.  in   which  he   ex- 


ule  of  Ibe  cnnmgation  had  »  changed  that  he 
ras  inteirupled  by  peali  of  Laughter  t 

»  weQ  as  Olhcn.     His  character   has  been    va* 


.-leefTvclually  Ihe  ingniiig  vices,  he  villingljr 

thoughia,  and  be  was  hrtle  solicitous  of  hia  rboice 
-"  --prestian.     G>varo  Coiai,  in  Italy,  bad  the 


MASTERLY  IMITATORS. 


tuTc  Tcrived  it  in  bis  ^  aoulb'i  ipukLc  perpctiuUly 
tbciubLlme  prtadicrtpOE  whom  the  French  favT 


wiTi  tiUpted  to  place 


Bmiidaloiw.  vlth  a  coUectEd  air,  had  link 
tkn  i  witb  cyo  dCDcraUy  half  clovdi  he  p 
Caled  ibe  bean>  aV  Ihc  people  by  the  lound 
nice  unifiinn  uhI  wlemn.    The  tone  wllh  w 

f-rr/    "ThouiTt  the  man!'*  in  mddcnljr add 
Ing  Ifacm  to  one  of  the  kings  of  fTance,  Hi 


thuddered  a)  the  recoilcclian  oT  Ibe  exptcninn 
which  he  employed  in  an  ipoMiophe  to  the  God 

71k  penoD  of  Ma»>llon  ii  MiD  present  to  manv. 

pntptt  with  that  air  of  timplidt)-,  that  modeu  dc- 

itndicd  gcitura.  that  pawanate  tone,  that  mild 
codntenance  of  a  nun  peoemted  wllh  hin  Mib- 
jeclj  and  conTeying  to  the  mind  the  moM  brilhant 
lightf  and  to  the  heart  rhe  molt  lender  enwtinni. 

Baron,  Ibe  trandiani  coming  nut  Fiom  one  nf  hi* 
lermonf.  tnlh  forced  from  hb  lrp4  a  conteHinn 


MASTER  l.y  IMITATOHS. 
artist*  who  cnuld  h  perfectly  imitate  the  iiplTlt. 

Angelo  uulpIuTcd  a  ileeirins  Cnpid,  oi  nvhich 
having  broke  ur  an  ami,  he  hurled  (he  Maine  in 
aplace  Bbere  he  knew  II  would  loan  he  found. 

was  taU  to  Ibe  Catdinil  of  SI.  Geofge.  to  wham 
jcnning  to  the  Cu)Hd  the  arm  which  he  had' re- 


Kignard,  wenl  lo  the  Chevalier  de  Cliiivrlle,  and 
told  biiD  *i  a  iccTci  ifaal  he  wai  lo  receive  Ciorn 


ighl  Ihe  bail,  begged  the  pre- 
laacd  Ibe  picture  jt  a  veil-  bigb 

■   He  WM  informed  he  had  been  impiBed  upan, 
and  thai  Ihe  Magdalen  wa*  painted  by  Mignard. 

nit  Ihe  amalcut  would  not  hdieie  it  i  tU  the  con- 


be  dcccimi  i  and  added.  Ibit  if  <t  wai  Gnliki'i 

ee  hdodred  louii  that  it  ii  not  a  Ouido."  ^e 
_  pule  now  became  violent ;  Le  Brtin  was 
desiroiu  of  accepting  the  wager.  In  a  word,  Ibe 
adair  became  luch  that  it  could  add  nothing  more 
to  the  glory  of  Mignard.  "  No,  lir,"  leplied  the 
latter, "  [  am  too  honcat  to  bet  when  1  am  certain 

>'ou  Boo  crowns :  the  money  mu^  he  returned, — 
the  inintinit  Is  niu."  I.e  >nin  would  not  be- 
lieve it.    "  'ilie  proof,"  Mignard  continued,  "  is 

was  the  portrait  of  a  cardinal  t  I  will  ibow  you  hia 

oi'l.  and  rubbing  the  juir  of  the       ,. 

the  ingenious  painter  coulu  nn  longer  be  dl' 


th*)'  were  puhli"hed  iindet  Ihe  liile  of  Infilura 

divided  in  their  Dplnion  of  Out  inerii  of  ibi>  cowc- 
ikm.  Gilpin  claasef  these  "  Innocent  Imposton  " 
among  the  most  eolertaining  of  hiit  works,  and  is 
dclighled  by  the  haivlDesa  with  which  he  ha* 

Ibal  twitch  Ibe  eonnoiiacun,  dedirei  ifa^t  ibey 


98 


i:d\vard  the  fourth. 


could  ne*'cr  have  doccU'cd  an  experienced  judge, 
and  reprobate*  "»uih  kimU  of  inj^'nuity,  played 
ort  at  the  cost  of  the  vcnenble  hrotlierhood  of 
the  cocjnoscenti  ! 

The  ».imc  thini»  wxn  however  done  by  Goltriu*, 
who  beinj;  disjrxistftl  at  the  preference  given  to 
the  works  of  Albert  Durer,  Luca5  of  Leyden. 
and  others  of  th;it  school,  and  having  attempted 
to  introduce  a  better  t.Lstc,  which  was  not  im- 
mrdijitely  roli-.hc«l,  he  publislied  what  were  after- 
w.irds  ciill-Ml  his  niastt'i pieces.  The^e  arc  six 
prints  in  the  ^tjle  of  these  masters,  merely  to 
prove  that  Golt/.ius  could  imitate  their  worfcs,  il 
he  thought  proper.  One  of  these,  the  Circtim- 
cision,  he  had  painted  on  soiled  paper,  an<l  to 
gi\eittlie  brown  tint  of  anti(|uity,  had  careiully 
smoked  it,  by  which  mean*  ii  was  sold  a*  a 
curious  performance,  ami  deceived  some  of  the 
most  capital  connoisst-urs  of  the  day,  one  of  whom 
b'  ught  It  as  one  of  the  finest  en;:ravings  of 
Albert  Durer.  Kven  Strutt  acknowledges  the 
merit  ol  Golt/.iu>'s  masterpii-cts  f 

To  thcMJ  iII!»t^nce^  of  artists  I  will  add  others 
of  celebrated  authors.  Muretus  rendered  Joseph 
Scalicer,  a  great  stickler  lor  the  ancients,  highly 
ridiculous  l>y  an  .irtitice  which  he  practiseii.  He 
sent  >omc  verM.'"«  which  he  pretended  were  copied 
Irom  an  (»ld  niami'^ript.  'F'he  verses  were  cx- 
celKnt,  an«l  Siali^er  was  credulous.  After  ha\ing 
read  them,  ho   exil. timed   thev  were   admirable. 


commentary,  tending  to  display  the  conformitr  of 
the  st}  le  and  manner  of  thc^e  fngments  with' the 
works  of  those  authors  to  w  horn  he  ascribed  them. 
Sigonius  was  a  groat  mxster  of  the  aiyle  of 
Cicero,  and  ventured  to  publish  a  treatKC  De  Con- 
jnlutione,  as  a  cotnposi(ic>n  of  Cicero  recently  di»- 
covered ;  many  were  deceived  by  llie  countrrfrit, 
which  was  pcrform.'d  with  great  doxtcrify.  aod 
was  long  received  as  genuine;  )>tit  he  coiild  not 
deceive  I-ipsiu%  who,  alter  reading  only  ten  lines, 
threw  it  away,  exclaiming,  **  /'ah  '  non  est  t*.w- 
ronit ."'  I'he  late  Mr.  Burke  succeeded  more  »kil- 
fully  in  his  "Vindication  of  Natural  Society," 
whi.  h  for  a  long  time  piLvsed  as  the  composition  of 
Lord  Bolin;;brokc  :  so  |>erfect  is  this  ingenious  im- 
posture of  the  spirit,  manner,  and  course  of  think- 
ing, of  the  noble  authrrr.  I  believe  it  was  written 
for  a  wager,  and  fairly  won. 


EDWARD  THE  FOURTH. 


OVR  Ed  want  the  Fourth  wxs  a  gay  and  volup- 
tuous prince  ;  and  probably  owed  hi>  crown  to  his 
handsomeness,  his  enormous  debts,  and   passion 
for    the   fair  sex.      He  had  many  Jane  Shores. 
Honest  Philip  tie  Comines,  his  contcmporar>\  ^"9, 
"That  what  greatly  contributed  to  his  entering 
London  as  soon  as  he  appearvd  at  its  g.Ues  wm  tlie 
and  ailirmed  that  they   were  written  by  an   old  !  great  debts  this  prince  had  contracted,  which  made 
tomic  poet,  Trabeu-*.     He  quoted   them,  in   liis  '  his  creditors  gladly  assist    him;    and    the    hi^ 
commentary  on  Vam)  Dtr  He  Ruitica,  as  one  of  |  favour  in  which  be  was  held  by  the  Bourgeouts, 


the  most  precious  fragments  ol  antiquity.  It 
was  then,  wlien  he  had  lixed  hi>  foot  tirmly  in 
the  tr.ip,  that  Muretu»  inf(jrme<l  the  world  of 
the  little  depend*. me  to  be  placed  on  the  critical 
sag.icity  of  <me  vo  prejudiced  in  favour  of  the 
ancients,  and  who  considered  In-*  judgment  as 
intallible. 

The  Abbe  Kcenier  Desmarais,  having  written 
an  ode,  or,  as  the  Italians  call  it.  Can/one,  M.'nt  it 
to  the  Abbe  Stoz/.i  at  Florence,  who  UM.'d  it  to 
impose  on  tl^.-e  or  lour  acaileniiiians  of  Delia 
Crusca.  He  gave  o.it  that  Leo  Allatius,  librarian 
ot  the  Vati-  an,  in  examining  carefully  the  mss.  of 
Petranh  pre^erv^d  there,  liatl  found  two  pagi-s 
Mightly  glued,  which  having  scp.irated,  he  liatl 
discovered  this  jule.  The  iact  was  m)l  at  first 
easilv  cri'd'te«l ;  but  afterwards  the  similarity  of 
style  and  manner  rendered  it  highly  probable. 
When  Stro/7i  undeceived  the  public,  it  pn>cured 
the  Abl>e  Kegnier  a  place  in  the  .academy,  a<>  an 
honourable  testim<my  of  hi>  ingenuity. 

Pere  Commire,  when  Louis  the  XlVth  resolved 
on  the  conqiurst  «>f  Holland,  composetl  a  Latin 
fable, entitled  "'Hie  Sun  and  the  Frogs,"  in  uhich 
he  assumed  with  such  felicity  the  »t\le  and  cha- 
racter of  Pha-drus,  that  the  leameil  German  crifie 
Woltius  was  deceived,  anil  innocently  inserted  it 
in  his  edition  of  that  fabulist. 


into  whose  gcxxi  graces  he  had  frequently  glided, 
and  who  gained  over  to  him  their  hunban'da,  who, 
I  suppose,  for  the  tranquillity  of  their  lives,  were 
glad  to  depose,  or  to  raise  monarchs. —  Many 
ladies  and  rich  citizens'  wi%-cs,  of  whom  fcrmerly 
he  had  great  privacies  and  lamiliar  acquaintance, 
gained  over  to  him  their  husbands  and  relation"." 

This  is  the  dcMrription  of  his  \oluptuous  life; 
we  must  recollect  that  the  writer  had  Inren  an cye- 
uitncs,  and  was  an  honest  man;  while  mcHlern 
histori.ms  only  view  objects  through  the  colouring 
medium  of  their  imagitiation. 

'*  He  hajl  been  during  the  hist  twch-e  years  more 
accustomed  to  his  ease  and  pleasure'  than  any 
other  prince  who  lived  in  his  time.  He  hail 
nothing  in  his  thoughts  but  ^i  t/amri,  and  of  them 
more  than  was  remonable ;  and  hunting-matcheti, 
k!C)od  e.iting,  and  gR>at  care  of  his  person.  \^  hen 
he  went  in  their  si-asons  to  these  hunting-matche«, 
he  alwa\s  had  carried  with  him  great  pavilions  for 
Us  dames t  and  at  the  same  time  gave  splendid 
entertainments ;  so  that  it  is  not  surprising  that 
his  person  w.is  as  jolly  as  anv  one  I  e\er  saw.  He 
was  then  \  oung,  and  as  hancf^ome  as  any  man  of  his 
age :  but  he  has  muco  become  enormously  fat." 

Since  I  have  got  old  Philip  in  my  Hand,  the 
rea«ler  will  nrt,  JH.Tii.tps,  be  displeased,  if  he  at- 
tends to  a  little  more  of  his  riuitete,  which 


a  little  more  ol  Mis  rianele,  wiiich  will 
FaminiiLs  Strada  would  have  deceived  most  of  |  appear  in  the  form  ot  a  coKi'trjuzicwrof  the  times, 
the  critics  of  his  age,  if  he  had  given  as  the  re-  |  He  relates  what  pasM.*d  Inrt^^een  Edward  and  the 
mains  of  antiiiuity  the  different  pieces  of  history  .  king  of  France. 

anc*  poetry  which  he  composed  on  the  model  of       "  When   the   ceremony  of  the  oath  was  con- 
the   auLietits,  in   his   Prolusinnes  jtcademictt.    To  |  eluded,  our   king,   ^^ho' was    de*>irous  cf   biing 

Ercsen'e  probability  lie  might  have  given  out  that  j  friendly,  began  to"^  s.iy  to  the  king  of  England,  in  a 
c  had  drawn  them  from  some  old  and  neglected  i  laughing  way,  that  tie  must  come  to  Paris,. and  be 
librar>- ;  he  had  then  only  to  have  added  a  good  ',  jo\ial  amongst  our  ladies ;  and  that  he  would  give 


V^ 


I 


ELIZABETH. 


99 


bim  the  Cardinal  de  Bourbnn  for  hb  confesNor, 

who  would  %-cry  wiltini^v  ahw>lre  him  of  any  sin 

which  perchance  he  miifht  commit.    The  kint^of 

En«;l3nd  Kcmcd  well  ^ea^cd  at  the  invitation. 

and  liutf^hed  heartily;  for  be  knew  that  the  said 

cardinal  wa»  un  /•rt  btn  c«mpaf^om.    \^'hen  the 

kin^  was  returning,  he  spoke  on  the  road  to  mc ; 

and  vud,  that  he  did  not  like  to  tind  the  king  of 

Eni^land  ra  much  inclined  to  come  to  Pari^.    *  He 

>%'  aaid  he.  *  a  rciy  kandsmu  king  (  he  likes  the 

women  too  much.    He  may,  probably,  find  one  at 

Paris  that  may  make  him  like  to  come  too  often, 

or  stay  too  kmg.    HLi  ptedeccwon  have  already 

been  too  much  at  Paris  and  in  Normandy;'  anii 

that  '  hin  companr  wa<t  not  agree J3le  this  side  ^f 

tht  se*  i  but  that,  beyond  the  sea,  he  wuhed  to  be 

bmnfrirert  mmy.'" 

I  have  callcti  Philip  de  Comines  honest.  The 
old  writer*,  from  the  simplicity  of  their  style, 
usually  receive  this  honourable  epithet ;  hut  some- 
timeo  tbc>-  dtnen<-e  it  as  little  a^  mo«t  modem  me- 
mriir-whtcrs.  No  enemy  is  ituleed  so  terrible  as  a 
man  of  i;enJu«.  Comines 's  violent  enmity  to  the 
L>ix«e  of  Bnrgundy,  which  appears  in  these  Me- 
mcirs.  has  been  traced  by  the  minute  re^'archers 
nf  anccdott-s ;  and  the  cauv  is  not  honourable  to 
the  memoir-writ;. r,  whose  resentment  was  Im- 
plac  jble.  Oe  Comines  wan  bom  a  subject  of  the 
Duke  of  fiurKundy,  and  for  seten  years  had  been 
a  favourite ;  but  one  day  returning  from  hunting 
with  the  Duke,  then  Count  dc  Charolois  in  fami- 
liar jocularity  he  sat  himself  down  before  the 
prince,  orderiM  the  prince  to  pull  off  his  boots. 
The  count  lan^^ied,  and  did  this  hut  in  return  for 
Comines's  princely  arausentent,  dashed  the  boot 
in  bis  face,  and  gave  Comines  a  bloody  nose. 
From  that  time  he  was  mortified  in  the  court  of 
Burgundy  by  the  nickname  of  the  b—ted  head. 
Comines  long  felt  a  rankling  wound  in  his  mind  ; 
and  after  this  family  qnarrel.  for  it  was  nothing 
more,  he  went  over  to  the  king  of  France,  and 
wrote  otf  his  bile  again«t  the  Duke  of  Burgundy  in 
those  "  Memoirs*'  which  give  posteritv  a  carica- 
ture likeness  of  that  prince,  whom  ne  is  ever 
reimiring  for  presumption,  obstinacy,  pride,  and 
crucify.  Thi^  Duke  of  Burgundy,  however,  it  is 
uiil,  with  many  virtues  had  but  one  great  vice, 
the  vice  of  sovereigns,  that  of  ambition  ! 

The  impertinence  of  Comines  had  not  been 
chastiMKl  with  ercat  severity ;  hut  the  nickname 
was  never  ^rgiven :  unfortunately  {(ft  the  duke, 
Comines  was  a  man  of  genius.  When  we  are 
versed  in  the  history  of  the  times,  we  often  dis- 
cover that  memoir-wTiteTH  hare  some  secret  poison 
ID  their  hearts.  Many,  like  Comines.  have  had  the 
boot  dashed  on  their  nose.  Por<onal  rancour  won- 
derfully enlivens  the  style  of  Lord  Orfnrd  and 
Cardinal  de  HLvXr.  Memoirs  are  often  dictated  by 
\*\  heTce»t  spirit ;  ami  then  histories  are  composed 
from  memoirs.  Where  b  trI'th  ?  Not  always  in 
biitoncs  and  memoir* ! 


ELIZABETH. 


This  great  qnecn,  says  Mar\-ille,  pasiaooately . 
admired  handsome  person^,  and  he  was  already  j 
far  advanced  io  her  faroor  who  approached  her  i 

^■"        ■        -L-         ■■■■'-■■J  '"■  ■  IJ    ■■■■■■         .'HI.  ■■       — 


with  beauty  and  grace.  5he  had  so  unconqiier.ihle 
an  aversion  for  men  who  h:id  l>evn  triMtcil  un- 
fortunately by  nature,  that  she  could  not  endure 
thar  presence. 

When  she  issued  from  her  pal.ice.  her  guards 
were  careful  to  disperse  from  l»efnre  her  eves 
hideous  and  deformed  people,  the  lame,  the 
hunchbacked,  Ka  in  a  woni,  all  those  whose 
appearance  might  shock  her  fastidious  sensations. 

"There  is  this  singular  and  admirable  in  the 
conduct  of  Blixabeth,  that  she  made  her  picasunni 
subservient  to  her  politics,  and  she  maintained  her 
affairs  by  what  in  general  occasions  the  niin  of 
princes.  80  secret  were  her  amoun,  that  even  to 
the  present  day  their  mysteries  cannot  l>e  |K*nc- 
tnted  ;  but  the  utility  she  «lrew  from  them  is 
public,  and  alwa>-s  operated  for  the  gcKxl  of  tier 
people.  Her  lovers  were  her  miniitters,  jnd  her 
ministers  were  her  lovers,  l^ve  comm.indcd, 
lo*-e  was  ohe>'ed ;  and  the  n-Ji^n  of  thiN  pniice-s 
was  happy,  because  it  was  a  reii^n  of  y.o^r,  in 
which  its  chains  and  its  slirer\-  areliked  !" 

The  origin  of  R.ileij»h's  advancement  in  the 
queen's  graces  is  .-is  by  an  act  of  gillmtr^-.  Kilei^^h 
spoiled  a  new  plusli  cloak,  while  the  c|iu*en  st(p]iing 
cautiously  on  it,  shut  forth  a  smile,  in  whiih  he 
read  praniotlon.  Captain  Kaleiuh  soon  iKvime 
Sir  Walter,  and  npiJiy  ad\';inced  in  the  queen's 
favour. 

Hume  has  furnished  us  with  ample  prrMtfi  of  the 
fuusion  which  her  courtiers  fei^nied  tor  her,  and 
which,  with  others  I  sh.ill  jiive,  contirm  the 
opinion  of  Vi^eul  Manille,  who  did  not  know 
probably  the  ftason  why  her  amours  were  never 
discovered ;  which,  indeed,  ne%-er  went  further  at 
the  highest  than  bnistenms  rr  extreme  Kjlbtitry. 
Hume  has  presened  in  his  notes  a  letter  written 
by  Raleigh.  It  is  a  perfect  amorous  compo^'itiim. 
After  having  exerted  his  poctie  t.ilent;i  to  exalt  her 
ehmmu  and  his  a^tctten^  he  concludes,  bj  com|j.iT- 
ing  her  majesty,  who  was  then  jjv/y,  to  Venus 
and  Diana.  Kir  Walter  was  not  her  o'niy  courtier 
who  wrote  in  this  style.  Even  in  her  old  ai^e  slir 
affected  a  strange  fondness  for  music  and  d.-iiu  itu;, 
and  a  kind  of  childish  dn>ller>-,  by  which,  how- 
ever, her  court  seemed  a  court  of  love,  and  she  the 
sovereign.  A  curiom  anecdote  in  a  letter  of  the 
times  has  reached  us.  Rccretar>-  Cecil,  tlie  younm-st 
son  of  Lord  Burleigh,  seems  to  have  pertectlv 
entered  into  her  character.  L.sdy  I>erby  wore 
about  her  neck  and  in  her  bosom  a  portrait ;  the 
oiieen  espying  it,  inquired  about  it,  but  her  l.iil\  - 
snip  was  anxious  to  conceal  it.  The  queen  iusiited 
on  having  it,  and  discovering  It  to  lie  the  p<irtrait 
of  \-oung  Cecil,  she  snatched  it  awav,  and  tvinu  it 
upon  her  shoe,  walked  loni;  with  it;  alterv^.irds 
she  pinned  it  on  her  elbow,  and  wore  it  M)me 
time  there.  JUrcretary  Cecil  hearing  of  this,  com- 
posed flonic  verses,  mid  get  them  set  to  nui^ii  ; 
this  music  the  queen  insi>ted  on  heanni:.  In  his 
vemcs  Cecil  sang  that  he  repined  not,  tlionuli  her 
majesty  was  pleased  to  gr.ice  others  ;  he  contented 
himself  with  the  f.ivour  she  had  given  him,  by 
wearing  his  portr.4it  on  her  leet  ,in«l  her  elbow  \ 
The  writer  of  the  letter  ailds,  "  All  these  things 
are  verv  secret."  In  this  manner  she  contrived  to 
lay  the' fastest  hold  on  her  able  sen-ants,  and  her 
sen'ants  on  her. 

Thos«  who  are  intimately  acquainted  with  the 


lOO 


THE  CHTNE^E  LANGUAGE. 


private  anecdotn  of  those  times  know  what  en- ' 
couragement  tiiis  royal  coquette  gave  to  most  i 
who  were  near  her  permn.  Dodd,  in  his  Church 
History,  say%  that  the  Earls  of  Arran  and  Arundel, 
and  Sir  William  Pickering,  "  were  not  out  of 
hopes  of  gaining  Queen  Elizabeth's  affections  in  a 
matrimonial  way." 

She  encouraged  every  person  of  eminence ;  she 
even  went  so  far,  on  the  anniversary  of  her  coro- 
nation, a^  publicly  to  take  a  ring  from  her  finger, 
and  put  it  on  the  Duke  of  Alen^on's  hand.  She 
alv)  ranked  amongst  her  suitors  Henry  the  Third 
of  France,  and  Henry  the  Great. 

She  never  forgave  Buzenval  for  ridiculing  her 
bad  pronunciation  of  the  French  language ;  and 
when  Henry  IV.  sent  him  over  on  an  embassy, 
fttie  would  not  receive  him.  So  nice  was  the  irri* 
table  pride  of  this  great  queen,  that  she  made  her 
private  injuries  matters  of  state. 

"This  (luccn,"  writes  Du  Maurier,  in  his  Mf- 
moires  pour  tervir  h  I'Histoire  dt  Hollander  "  who 
displayed  so  many  heroic  accomplishments,  had 
this  foible,  of  wishing  to  be  thought  beautiful  by 
all  the  world.  I  heard  from  my  father,  that  hav- 
ing been  sent  to  her,  at  every  audience  he  had 
with  her  majesty,  she  pulled  off  her  gloves  more 
than  a  hundred  times  to  display  her  hands,  which 
indeed  were  *cry  beautiful  and  ver^*  white." 

Another  anecdote,  not  less  curious,  relates  to 
the  affair  of  the  Duke  of  Anjou  and  our  Elizabeth, 
and  one  more  proof  of  her  partiality  for  handsome 
men.  The  writer  was  Lewis  Guyon,  a  contem- 
pfirary  of  the  times  he  notices. 

"  Francis  Duke  of  Anjou  beine  desirous  of 
marrying  a  crowned  head,  causeu  proposals  of 
marriage  to  be  made  to  Elizalxrth,  queen  of  Eng- 
land. Letters  passed  betwixt  them,  and  their  por- 
traits were  exchanged.  At  length  her  majesty 
informed  him,  that  she  would  never  contract  a 
marriage  with  any  one  who  sought  her,  if  she  did 
not  first  tee  hit  perton.  If  he  would  not  come, 
nothing  more  should  be  said  on  the  subject. 
This  prince,  over-pressed  by  his  young  friends 
(who  were  .as  little  able  of  judging  as  himself)i 
paid  no  attention  to  the  counsels  of  men  of  ma- 
turcr  judgment.  He  passsed  over  to  England 
without  a  splendid  train.  The  said  ladv  con- 
templated his  perton:  she  found  him  ugly,  dis- 
hgured  by  deep  scars  of  the  tmall-pox,  and  that  he 
also  had  an  ill-thaped  note^  with  rwellings  in  the 
neck  f  AH  these  were  so  many  reasons  with  her, 
that  he  could  never  be  admitted  into  her  good 
graces." 

Puttenham,  in  his  very  rare  book  of  the  "  Art 
of  pnesie,"  p.  048,  notices'the  grace  and  majesty  of 
Elizal>eth*s  demeanour,  "her  stately  manner  of 
walk,  with  a  certaine  granditie  rather  than  gra- 
>iiic,  marching  with  Icysure,  which  our  sovereign 
Udyc  and  mistresse  is  accustomed  to  doe  gene- 
rally, unless  it  be  when  she  walketh  apace  for  her 
{ Pleasure,  or  to  catch  her  a  heate  in  the  cold  mom- 
ngs." 

By  the  following  extract  from  a  letter  from  one 
«f  her  gentlemen,  we  discover  that  her  usual 
habits,  though  studious,  were  not  of  the  gentlest 
kind,  and  that  the  service  she  exacted  from  her 
Attendants  was  not  borne  without  concealed 
nmrmurs.  The  writer  groans  in  secrecy  to  his 
Inend.    sir  John  Stanhope  writes  to  Sir  Robert 


Cecil  in  159S.  "I  was  all  the  aftemafwue  with  bcr 
majestie,  at  my  booker  and  then  thinking  to  rot 
me,  went  in  agaj-ne  with  your  letter.  She  wat 
pleased  with  the  Filosofer's  stone,  mnd  hath  bea 
all  this  dayt  reatonably  quyttt,  Mr.  Gresrell  b 
absent,  and  I  am  tyea  so  as  I  cannot  styrr,  b«t 
shall  be  at  the  nveurse  for  yt,  these  two  dayes  !** 

Puttenham,  p.  249,  has  also  recorded  anhoDour- 
able  anecdote  of  Elizabeth,  and  characteristic  of 
tliat  high  majesty  which  was  in  her  thought^  as 
well  as  in  her  actions.  When  she  came  to  the 
crown,  a  knight  of  the  realm,  who  had  tnsolcntif 
behaved  to  her  when  Lady  Elizabeth,  fell  apoo 
his  knees  to  her,  and  besought  her  pardon,  ni^ 
pccting  to  be  sent  to  the  Tower:  ihe  replied 
mildly,  "  Do  you  not  know  that  we  are  defended 
of  the  lion,  whose  nature  is  not  to  harme  or  piey 
upon  the  mouse,  or  any  other  such  tnudl  rennin  ?** 

Queen  Elizabeth  was  taught  to  write  by  the 
celebrated  Roger  Atcham.  Her  writing  is  eztieinely 
beautiful  and  correct,  as  may  be  seen  by  examin* 
ing  a  little  manuscript  book  of  prayers,  pujcncd 
in  the  British  Museum.  I  have  seen  her  fint 
writing-book  preserved  at  Oxford  in  the  Bodleian 
Librar\' :  the  gradual  improvement  of  her  ma- 
jesty's handwriting  is  very  honourable  to  her  dili- 
gence ;  but  the  most  curious  thing  is  the  paper 
on  which  she  tried  her  pens ;  this  she  usually  did 
by  writing  the  name  of  her  beloved  brother 
Edward ;  a  proof  of  the  early  and  ardent  attach- 
ment she  formed  to  that  amiable  prince. 

The  education  of  Elizabeth  had  been  aeverdy 
classical ;  she  thought  and  she  wrote  in  all  mc 
spirit  of  the  great  characters  of  antiquity ;  and 
her  speeches  and  her  letters  are  studded  widi 
apophthegms,  and  a  terseness  of  ideas  and  lan- 
guage, that  give  an  exalted  idea  of  her  mind.  In 
her  evasive  answers  to  the  commons,  in  reply  to 
their  petition  to  her  majesty  to  marr\-,  she  has 
employed  an  energetic  word.  **Were  I  to  tell 
you  that  I  do  not  mean  to  marry,  I  might  My 
less  than  I  intend ;  and  were  I  to  tell  you  that  I 
do  mean  to  marry,  I  might  say  more  than  it  is 
proper  for  you  to  know ;  therefore  I  give  you  an 
an  fiver ,  answerlcss  !" 


THE  CHINESE  LANGUAGE. 

The  Chinese  language  is  like  no  other  on  the 
globe ;  it  is  said  to  amtain  not  more  than  about 
330  words,  but  it  is  by  no  means  monotonous,  for 
it  has  four  accents,  and  even,  the  raised,  the  les- 
sened, and  the  returning,  which  multiply  es'cry 
word  into  four ;  as  difficult,  says  Mr.  Astle,  for  an 
European  to  understand,  as  it  is  for  a  Chinese  to 
comprehend  the  six  pronunciations  of  the  French 
s.  In  fact  they  can  so  diversify  their  monosyllalMC 
words  by  the  aiflcrent  tonet  which  they  give  them, 
that  the  same  character  differently  accented  sig- 
nihes  sometimes  ten  or  more  different  things. 

From  the  twenty-ninth  volume  of  the  Lettret 
Kdifiantet  et  Ctirieu'tes  I  take  the  present  critically 
humorous  account  of  this  language. 

P.  Bourgeois,  one  of  the  missionaries,  attempted, 
after  ten  months'  residence  at  Pekin,  to  preach  in 
the  Chinese  language.  These  are  the  words  of 
the  good  father.    *'  God  knows  how  much  this 


MEDICAL  MUftlC. 


■dicu  to  All  thlt  in  OUT  dvclinuion^  dulLngiihlie: 
the  nnd«»  iDd  the  number  of  ibinB  ve  vouh 
fpcui  ullnit  in  the  verbs,  to  tW  wnicli  miichi 

it  KB,  if  it  ict9 ikHie  or  vith  othen:  ininoicl 
wHaiict  ChinCM  Itae  ume  weTd  i>  uhUHilive 


ta  lit  Ihit,  thai  all  ibe  woidi  Df  ihta  Unguip  are 
Rduccd  to  Ibrec  hundRil  inil  i  fcv  mare  i  IbU 

that  tb^  tignify  eii^bly  thoiuabd  iliflercnt  Uiin^ 

neterL  Tfai»  i»  not  all :  the  amneemcnt  of  all 
tbaemoncHyllabluiappearBta  be  under  noeenenl 
nle  I  lo  thlt  to  liDow  tbe  lan^^age  ffter  having 
kmt  the  wordi,  we  inuM  Jearn  even- pin  iculii 
|ihnK  I  the  km  invenion  woulil  make  >'ou  un- 

"1  wilL  ^ve  you  an  example  of  Ibeir  wnrdi. 
They  told  «e  thou  ugniiica  a  bnk:  ID  (bat  I 
thought  wbeueveT  tlie  word  tli9u  was  pionauniYd, 
a  imk  wai  tbe  lubjecl.    Not  al  alii    Cluu,  tlie 

Bat  (hi>  amounted  to  nolbtnui  sltMi,  ]  found, 

thtu  eapresaei  (be  iou  9f  ' 


I'Notwilhuandini  Iheie  ilngulav  dilK 
niid  one  but  finiTa  belp  in  Ihc  pemHl  c 
)okl,  f  ihotild  not  complait].  But  tbn 
nble )    Their  language  ig  quite  dilleiei 


the  pronuaciatioo  i  every  word  may  be  pro- 
lUBced  in  Ave  lUDcRnt  tons  i  yel  etery  tone  ii 
unpracttaed  ear  eah  easily 
■nonuylUblei  Hy  with 
Ibey  are  continually  di 
h  tometime^  hardly  leai 
inyliablei.    From  an  up 


diitiiigui»fa 
guiaed  oy  e 


Chineie  expm  tbemseli-es),  Ibcv  hit 
•toad  (b[R,  Fortunately,  the  CfiineH 
deifolly  patient)  and  they  are  aiioc 
any  Jgnotant  Hntiger  ibould  be  able  U 
wordf  of  their  language." 

Hager  leUi  w  in  big  Blementiiy  Ch 
the  ChiueK,  that  '  Salim  an:  oDen  cc 
China,  wbiih,  If  you  attend  lo  the  than 


tie  foDiinent  are  at  pre«eiit  engjwd  in  making 
iqnirici  and  experiments  upon  the  mfutnst  v 
tatic  in  Ikt  luri  tf  iiKnui."  Tbe  Icinicd  Du- 
MIX  ti  taldlDlewllbebandoftbig  new  Iribe  of 
ntaUnTi  and  ttgiitHmti. 
The  Hibject  luvingeicilcd  my  curioiily,  IhouEb 


ought 


to  [eeein  indulgently  the  prolito 
than  tbey  ore  vonb. 


derii-ed  from  the  le 


pretcrilie  one  to  bh  patient, 
t  intlependenl  oTtbeDnaier 


eringl^SS^ 


■whether  tlU*  leanked  dit 
I  Df  cerialn  <] 


of  leaminu  of  eeriain  German  rrvdiit,  who  prove 
any  puint  by  Ibe  veakeM  analogin  and  the  ttkoI 
Uncifnl  coneriti.    Tlie  fbllevung  Hmmary  Kill 


flDencc  of  evil  ipi 
wblch  it  enKTaUy 
delirium  accomp- 


I  fencrally  atlributed  to  the  In- 
iTtta.    The  dqireuion  of  rniiid 

nildered  ai  eipecially  dnot- 


.„-r— — .  to  at&cl  even  thoee  who  laboured  under  a  con- 

ittni,  their  ^derable  degree  of  menial  dinrder,  'Hie  accom- 
regard  the  I  panying  depreauon  o(  mind  wai  conndned  aia 
idicroui  or    partol  the  diseane,  perha|»  hghlly  enough,  and 

r  thuuiuid   lymptomj  when  eipeiienee  bad  not  aacertaiBed 


MEDICAL  MOSIC. 


i  iknn^ti^ncnt  of  SiiiL  by  bii  barp.  The  NaturalBt* 
thoricfby^  by  Sauk'iicrvinU;  and  tbc  iucccfl  u  tible  to  thi 
licciKC,  fpnki  of  Avcblainui  bcalintf  tcutc  4U-  B»tUc^  h 
tbcr  nuD  or  dcit)',  or  bctucen  bo(b»  ii  ■  pbf  wup  hi*  JiMtnii 
tbc  \Aa  (bat  vwk  (boulil  lenl  rul  bddilv  ip- 1  on  bii  lul 
TlioopbnAtM  u 


lo  inftca.  bi  tbc  bumon 
rigoun  of  til  prnon.  t. 
tah  modem  Orphcu*,  plat  ipn 


ii  gpocl  for  tbe  Kout. !  HiikiitpriK  vuat  hm  lo  great,  thathc  vasL  .. 
TiKopbraitiiB.irhicb    licil  oiih  otonnbnmt  i  wbca  bavin);  ctutA  to 

id  Miakcij^arc  nKDtionthcalFcn   pnvin.bni  lo  hear  bit  iiMnimcnt,  immcdiatchr 
.._.. —     „.__i_._ .. .. -..  ..   (|„^5  up_    ^,  |„  i^j  1  great  iMike  lo  I|l>llR^  it 


■■  Munirgia.-' 


t  length,  hi 


i&Ukeoltbi 


trumpet.    Dr.  Willia  telli  m,  h]i  Dt.  But^v,  of  ■    i 
Iff.  iucmuch  that  her  hivbaDd,  tiie  arccnial 

of  the  body  and  Ibe  mind  ;  Ibc)  UN^I  the  < 


Kard  a  ltDF^'  of*  FaiineUi  the  fam 
EU    lent  hic  lg  Hidiid,   to  tr 

11aJe^ty  trai  buried  in  (be  proNniiHl 


indov.  Fot  lOfiK  Hnw  be  placed  hi*  Aici  at  tbc 
Ip,  vbik  hb  vakt,  «rhD  «»  milh  hicn.pliied 
1  a  bagpiyc :  little  b^'  httlc,  the  tpider  vxq  itself 


eecral  montf « to  dtiU  the  ipldcr  bjr 
tbc  Km  uund  to  Kiic'w'the' By 
e  foUowlng  CQTioua 


nelapcholy ;    a 


mia^c,  cupedaily  the  tound  of  io 


iJ^IX^oupjW^'^ 


le  rotal  patient.    At  length  it  vat  ttlnrr 
le  kin<[,  avikcDing  From  hii  Hupot,  k 


iDcbcd  with  it 
n  Vaa  placing  OB  thi 


MtNUiE  vrnrTfsa. 


■n  Hme  to  lime  before  the  wiiuLow»  rusing  hia 
id  up  Bov  ud  then,  »  he  wu  fenliikg  on  the 
m;  ibedogconllTiucdfOTmbciveuiboufmlcd 
liii  bind  1^  looking  ibndfailly  at  Ihc  pliycr ; 
E  w  did  not  diwovcr  tbc  least  inilicUHW  ot  hit 
lag  touched,  eating  hi*  IhiilJet  |KHceab]y  i  the 


giDund  in  a  kind  olectlasy,  mjm  whnrh  thi^y  were 
Hon  ni«l,  he  uuited  me,  by  >  ehange  in  the 

JackwD  nf  Bieter.  in  reoLv  tn  the  aoeition  ol 
Dryilen,  "What 


jtmifb  ■■  thoveh  ihcy  b»l  be 
■a  ivin;,  and  otben  on  Ibi 


tl   with  ><|>«)<>B ; 


GunU  ire  atlnctcd  bv 
that  he  ha  aHcmbied  •  i 


olely  emplo> 

hill,  did  no)  ...u.  ...  ....  ...4. 

a  utnr»  n>,  that  he  ha>  n 


iHectcil  bjr  a 


b  them,  fai  (hod,  tbey  ac- 

lan,  Id  lih  «|icdllian  tn 
:rl4iii    dbyh   among  the 
rin^lar  prHctktf, 


.  nicntiancd  br  -- 

thoDich  tttthont  uvg- 

powerftiL  IniSueitce  Aver  the  Swint, 

iKm  witb  10  lioknt  ■  ilrjn: 

UWB  codbhv,  that  It  li  fbibiddc 

of  death.    Then  h  ■!»  a  Bcolr 

tbCK 


ing  of  addcn  and  gvTTieni^  |  anTnatbiDK,  uji  lie. 
ii  more  noUHioiu  than  that  the  eaitcm  Indlim 
will  [id  the  boiuei  of  the  mirk  i-vnanHHii  Hukei, 
by  channinR  them  whh  the  VHnd  nf  a  llute. 

and  a^DrptiDD  pve  n  macheniplnj'nKnt  to  tbv 
Tcsela,  that  a  temporarv  htale  of  mental  fepow 
mwt  be  fnnnd,  cipccially  in  lint  cUmatesnrnlhd 

aiircable  ain,  eilher  heard  or  Hajvd  withinil 
edort,  miM  bave  aU  the  |[Dod  ellecu  of  (leep,  and 

pcriment  onen  wee^iill]'  made  1^  mnelf.  I 
hnre  heen  amied  bf  a  credible  ej-e-witneia,  Ibat 

woodA  to  the  place  where  a  more  lavage  bcbt, 
Sliijuddaulah,  entertained  himH'lf  with  coDceriM, 
aod  thai  they  listened  to  the  Mraiai  with  an  ip- 

milignint  uukci  leaie  their  hnki  iinn  heuing 
' --—  which,  ai  be  wppomfd,  niire  tbem 


rilen,  "What  pwlnn  cannc 


le  En-  ibe  birt 


Kcnliar  delight.    An  inlelligci 
ii^alc),  wai  playing  to  a  large 


%w''to:*n'^. 


.■II  that  be  ecapvd  ii^url.  flili  w«  the 
spirit  of  the"  Lan  Mimtrel,"  whnlnfuwdcauiage 
-nnng  hit  coantiymen,  hy  tmsewing  it  in  ao  anl- 


uyi  that  Cinm  once  law.  it  ii  prelcndud  mi^Kt 

ImpoedUe.  Allan  nciticei  an  ani<  who  wrnte 
a  ilMch  In  ktlcn  of  gnld.  whU'b  he  enckned  in 

•mall  a  bud  that  ihe'  miiing  cnuld  not  iKlegihle 
In  the  naked  eye.  One  nrote  a  vene  of  Homer 
on  a  grain  nf  mlUel,  and  uother,  more  iude- 
fatlgihly  trilUnit,  Iramrtlhed  the  whole  IBad  hi 
»  coulincd  a  tpace,  tbat  it  mnld  be  enclnied  in 
a  oulihcll.  Menage  mentioiu,  he  taw  whole  ten* 
tencet  whkh  were  not  perceptible  to  the  eye 
without  the  microscope  i  and  pictures  and  por* 
Iraitt  wbicU  apiHnred  at  first  Id  l>e  lines  and 
scratches  thrown  diMin  at  random  ^  one  nf  them 

lend  in  Italian  poeoi,  in  prdise  ul  this  piincew, 

cailgrapber  in  Ihe  reiun  oI  Eliiibilh,  a<ti>niOied 
tbeeyeiot  beholdmhy  shosinglhem  nhat  they 


NUMERICAL  FKIURES. 


o  pAx  b>-  PcRF  Balci.  u  BDglhhin 


ttrought 
'n  BngliA 


iRuUMc  copy  of  Ihc  I 


nvin);  ot  the  liwl  DC 


Crnd.  awl  Ihc  Lord'i  Pnyer.    In  (he  Britnh 
•mm  wt  liDd  1  drilling  rcjwocnlioa  *bc  por- 

Ihc  hind.    On  tbii  dnsinii  appnr  ■  number  of 


ibc  ooTT  of  ihii  iDdum 


Before   the   ioDoducI 


'Hiey  Hv,  Ibftt  OTiraiuUy  men  counted  by  their 

tingEn;  thiu  to  mu^  the  linl  four  numbcn  their 

d  in  I,  which   nitunllf  TCpreKflb  them.    To 

rk  the  fifth,  their  etioK  i  V.  wbicii  n  made 

by  bending  in' 

linger  i  ind  fo 


,-_.jLg.     One  day  in  emnfuny  ai  the  l>au|rtlin': 
Ibii  famed  man  trifled  bilf  an  boar  in  prning  I' 

eight  in  widths  pliant  and  firm,  can  be  fnUled  up 


thb  piece  oTTeUam  naill  then  contiiD 


by  loinE  •  wece  of  paper,  and 
pen.    The  thing  h  pDsjble  to  be 


*r.    They  'ppear  af 


TlK  oti^n  of  thw  useful  chanelen  vilh  the 


jgo»  and  H  for  i«o»  werr  ifterwatiji  added. 

Ilier  AitHeqitenlLy  abbieviatcd  their  charscier^ 

ic  figure  of  leA  TaJne  before  a  higher  niim- 


t  men  counted  originally  by  their  fingerti 
B  no  impmbahie  auppo^tion  i  II  It  fliU  natoralLy 
piactiied  by  Ibe  vulgar  of  the  nws  eniighlened 

have  been  u«ed»  and  tiie  etymola^ilt  deiite  the 

b  the  Ljtiin  tenn  for  a  pebble4Doe,  and  by  vhich 


1  negligent 


SSOLIsa  ASTROLOGERS. 


A  uUEr  in  judiriil  lutralogy  a 


logo-  w»  cDiuuUfil  for  Uk  hour  whkb  would 

A  Roiy,  which  iTrongly  prara  how  ^itly 
Chirlcm  n.  was  bigoted  id  jiidLciiL  urroJfify,  and 
whoK  mindwu  renimly  Hit  uncnlighteiKd^  it 


Dryikn  cut  the  lutlvitici  ofbls  ions ;  in 
li  niBulubk,  hii  pndklion  nlilinK  la  nn  »n 
Chula  took  pUcCp  Thli  inctdcDt  b  of  to  ]at«  a 
date,  one  mi|ihl  hop*  ■■  would  bin  bc«n  cleiitd 
up :  but,  i(  It  h  ■  fKt,  we  must  lUow  it  aIXird>  ■ 
zWioiHi  nullmoa  to  lU  imlional  idcpti. 

Id  167a,  the  pastion  for  horacopa  and  ex- 


tiny.  Catherine  de  Medicis  brought  Henry  IV., 
then  a  child,  ta  old  Nostndiiitiut,  whom  antiqiu- 

Ulan  hia  ntlditaling  powen.  The  sight  or  Ihe 
rcTcrend  leer,  with  a  Mard  which  "  itreamcd  like 
a  nctnr  in  the  ur,**  terrified  the  future  bero.  who 
dreaded  a  whlppine  fram  bd  grare  a  pervsnage. 
viU  it  be  creditetTthiit  one  of  theic  maciciam 
having  aaaurrd  chariea  IX.  that  he  would  live  as 


day  1    Thli  fact  bad,  no  douiit,  great  weifchi  in 
tb»  conlmvuTiy  of  the  atfmiogcrs  with  (heir  ad- 

The  life  of  Liily  the  aatroioger,  writleh  by  him- 
■eif,  ii  a  curious  wnik.    He  b  tbe  Sidropbel  of 


of  them  had  taken  the  air  in  the  nilkiij',  and 
>  hid  coloured  Ihenneivo  up  to  Ilie  Rallovri. 


llie  work  ii  curious  for  the  1 
imn  it  caolaiu.  The  ainoun 
nittreia  are  characterlntic.    He  wai 

atlen  tthich  required  decc 

itly  donril' 


ibly  managed 

3uired  deception  and  invenlinn. 
_  _       y  dourished  ia  Ihc  time  of  the 


On  this  nibjecl,  II  may  giiiify  curioiity  to  notice 
The  price  cannot  eniirriy  be  occaiiDned  by  their 
itlli  adept!,  whoK  falUi  muiI  Im  ittoDg,or  whoie 

The  Chaldean  aa«  were  nnrly  put  10  the  ront 

umaniy  than  bn  Kourging  pen  Ihii 

and  hia  penoDaiitiet  made  Ihem  fi^el 

lowrver,  a  Norwich  knighl,  Ihc  very 

B>',  arfayed  in  tbe  enchanted 

of  iudidall 


CI  b)r  iHiimliullDii.    in-fit  "  uuirc  Ihc  loitr  ol  Ibu  xicncE,  Ilul 
elf  by  medlcil  pnc-  j  would  itjja;  him  "  i  ikmaid-fiU  "'  Thii  jciei 


cLins  An4  fntm  tbecODfaNOUDfHibpocntndn 
GAkn*  Anfcpuk  xad  Aerippo,  meaiciiM  ^ppni 


ChiiHopbcr  b  *  ihiei 


■nd  rym-  pige  b  cmbcUUhcd  bt'  i  borcvcDpc^ 
wblch  hv'expjuv  vilh  the  ulnml'fuijily.     tW 

qujTio  Tikued  Bt  »nu  Euineul    li  b  eniitlei 
■'  Cbristlin  AUnlngy,  rnodnrlr  'Kited  of  in  thri 

work    u    ^  I  Catilo^uc    of     nuM     xmilo^c. 


liom.  ii>d  hi*  pretended  Kier 
1e  pcofcvedly  if^iut  tbH  po| 


'h'^itovnid'^rf'^*'  "''f  '■'t    m''"^ 


dieted  Citikct^  dnth  1  But  the  Initb  r>, 
ID  epltiph  like  Jodgln^  to  let  i  it  flood  f 
mAy  ktr  the  linl  p^Kn^jer  to  inhibit.  Hai 
Mber  of  that  p«t>-  of  *ny  eminence  died  ir 
month,  it  utould  luve  been  u  Appoiitelt  ifiplicd 
to  him.     But  IJIiy  wu  jto  exqoi^le  rcjeue,  a~'' 


philoiopber  i^uiieii  only  the  nuCtTials  uid  limr, 
to  pcrlrnn  hii  eoUlen  o^ntioiu.   He  w«  ukcn  lo 

EabonloT^-  wu  built,  lod,  Ifa^t  bb  l4boun  might 
itot  be  impeded  by  any  diftnibuKe,  no  one  yeaa 


(he  Avaty  philowpber.  Pile  ind  emKiited  with 
diily  DperitioTH  and  nightly  ligii-,  he  re*«lcd  to 
her,  in  unirrtdli^Uejirgon,  bit  progTcwe;;  ind 


Two   run  hid   now   eliined,   vut   qainlities  of 
leid  bid  gofie  in.  ind  nothing  but  leid  bid  fame 


hitherto  he  had  boped  not  tr 


eponof  cinnoD,uuiled1beirem.  Iliry  hutcnnl 
o  the  LiboratoT)'  ^  ttt'o  of  the  omtcil  itilli  hid 

iter  raining  lootbcr  patron,  m  despair  fwillowed 


Rrai  mon  RCcntlr  wc  bm  i  binary  at  in  il- 
cbrmlft  Id  the  lite  of  KomiKV,  Uk  punier.  Tbii 
iic)i)-ini«,  Ma  baUming  miich  linie  inJ  montf 
on  PRpmltont  for  the  leriBil  MTMCcrtoD,  am]  beihg 
■uu  idc  dMiilvc  hsut,  «>>  id/uriI.  I>y  the  too 

lea^^titS.'.    While  the  prajeetoT  w»  atlcmlinK 


-etluceil  bi-  hin  eirravaganclets 
:t  in  hit  h'nminniu,  he  tn- 
bi^  empty  coScn  \ty  tichj/iny. 


inghiBcomijdy 


cmukibh: » Ibe  patent 


all  HHDt'.-iaiul  pmhibiiioni  lo  the  r 
record  *ai  Ter>-  pmbibly  eommun 
incBioin  antlquiry)  b>'  "-  a^-i- 
Mmd  B«D  Jon  wn,  wbca  I 
oT  the  Alchymiit. 

to  annrR  tklkliui'i  u| .^ 

(Hw  ame  trriler  ulk)  tbit  Iht  ■cut  jar  he  vab- 
IUialuXjkrr^U(iit|vh«nrinhet<.'ll>bi>HihKcn, 
Ibat  tile  litfity  ktur  mu  dmhing  nigh,  anil  by 

maner  <  he  wntUd  nav  all  Ihe  dchtioT  the  nation 

taNllfMd* 

ItKir^  hrinK  i 

Thii  patent  wan  likvwiK  j^ranted  dufjftsFlrjffpj 

ftrnnVi  who  hu  f^iTen  Ihii  patent  in  lUi  ^Imu 
K€fltu,  p.  IJ5,  rnuliulei  uith  this  HTcntk'  nl 


Akfaymim 


alcbymiTT  "Tbe  ancient  honlu  vi  ilchjmy,  » 
libenliy  ancribeii  to  Pi^lhagora^,  to  SolomoD, «  In 
Kcrmn,  were  the  pioiu  fnudi  or  more  reieni 
ulepu.  Tlie  GRcbwcie  inattentii-e  either  to  Ibe 
UK  or  ihe  abuv  of  chciniilt>'-  In  ihal  immeiue 
TegiiteT,  wIhtic  Pliny  bu  deprHtLd  the  divcoVErioi, 
the  iru,  and  the  eiron  of  mankind, IIhih  ii  not  Ihe 


in  Ibe  hntnif  of  altbymr. 


lir^  luthcnlic 

Rg>pt,  by  Ihe  Aiahs,  dilluacd  that  vain  k  lenee  orcr 
the  glDljep  ConccBial  ta  the  avarke  of  the  *>>"»'■» 
iKuMtwainuIiedln-"  '    - 

Sthe  nr^-— -■-— 


1  in  Eumnc,  v11 


irtaleuf  womkr:  ami  the  revln]  of  learn 
ipve  acw  Ti|{Dnr  to  hnpe,  nail  «|seMed  m 
ipeckmt  aiti  tn  deception.    Pfallovipny,  with 

ofalehym^  ;  aii(lthepRM.>nta[{c,lHiweverde»ip 


lAjj.    M]rblbcrlaeLhoaic( 


dliiT— "Mar  13, 

t^nict^ia  whf»  hail 
— in  pncllce  with 


tDkl  nie  in  ijuaUa  the  true  matter  at  ibe  MiJ*» 
f*cF'finiH,«taiehhebcijueatheilIoineBa  KgotJ.' 


rt  ofuu^j^f  jf^d,yet  al' 
»t  Aihmiile  ivaUy  iniaji 
ftheiyfiuM'i^/'iii 


•iae.iBbb 
Thiniiili  Ai 

IE  bai  CDllccKd  Ibe  wnrki  of  lemal  KnifUih  al- 
:b>inM9,  uti^iinitijt  Lis  comiDentary.  ltadord>a 

Uiinnle  icLuia  aloitei,  which  vie  for  the  mini  u- 
inu  withtiiewiMv^raihinufAraUanlnrratiun. 
(>f  Ibe  philwiOier^  •tone,  be  ay-,  he  kmiwi 
nHHiyh  tn  bniJ  he,  iodkik,  but  not  ciwufEh  to 

mullnjc  any  imperleet  earthy  inattcT  inlolti  iitnwtt 
degree  of  pcrteclion,  and  can  convcit  Ibe  ba^eit 
metals  Into  gr^ld,  HintH  into  itonc,  fcc,  but  il  hai 
niil  more  occuit  virlue^  when  the  aieina  lute 
been  enteral  intn,  hy  the  choice  Cnben  of  her- 
metic Diynerin.  The  reigeiabic  itoiie  hn  power 
over  the  nature!  of  man,  bcail,  fnwh,  Ii4ies  and 
>a  kinds  III  trcBud  planl^  to  make  them  flnuliib 
and  Vreu  fruit  at  any  time.  Hie  ma|^ai  stone 
divoven  any  penon  wbetveer  he  ii  cnncealcd  1 
while  tbe  angeCcal  itnue  ipto  the  apparition)  of 

'rhe«l  eRat  innleilei  ire  uippuitcirbv  occa^onal 
,.^,  ."r.  i,...f_^ .  i-,j^rr-  -■  "■ •  ■■--■-- 


nd  incnmpreheDdble  inKni, 
lepe  were  latelligilile  10  the  Inil 
ronh^howiiuL  however,  bow  Ha 

cere  to  Hunilernn  (hew  mwteil 

isbmole,  In  one  of  hit  chemical  w«k%  peii 

liliitnTphirhiu  on  a  lion,  ani 


maybe 
hleiDgJj^lci. 


m  a  lion,  and  OMonte 


and  Ibe  >eawn  (Or  di 


in  Ibe  other. 


TITLES  OF  BOOKS. 


phikflopbr-    TTictc  is  a  trtCt 


SSSK; 


be  tfcncnUykDr>wn>ni]pnciiscd^  Ev4 
>ill  li  if  lili-n,  and  etcn  goli  Aid 
poiioiKcl  It  MWM  by  rbe  ai>'4h  of  cc 

rhil.  Ma^.Vol.M.p.  j«j.    Thiilublin 


opcntiom," 


ty  dI  canotplioB.  Iutc  idopteil  ti 
oftbc  lulbon  bf^ni  to  (lil  latbc  "  Hck 

iscoicr  an  appraprutc  tilk,  ind  jndr 


tlLC  fuhkfiubk  cvDtiim  of  iD  AUlhoti,  who 


LSCSI 


tngU^h  noi-cL,  publHbe4  wi 


ment  miy  be  ntbiitd  (ram  i  icUdcc  M  whit  tin 
bccndnngiD  thrwoHd,ccn«niing(hb  imporUnt 
pcTTion  of  wtrv  book.  BuUc1»  in  \ua  '*  Decmoiu 
of  Ihc  Lanml,'*  hai  mjide  vciy  nteuiivc  re- 
fejrch«,lcr1bcmitteTwuiinportvil10iUuifeDt 
cH'JblLLet'i  chaiaclrr. 

foofl  of  iLk-gntci]  lilLcs,  which  Blwip  indintc  the 
mm  puerile  ige  of  tute.  The  u\\a  were  utuJUly 
adapted  W  their  obscure  works.    It  might  eiercue 


.  Apple.. 


r  (beoLogicai  qDeSJons,   md 

gii-ei  A  line,  wqicu  he  fjfi  of  aU  the  fjniuiicil 
rabbin  published  t  utalopxe  of  r^hinic^  wtiten, 
9.    "  Uke  the  belt  wine  of  my  beloved  th*t  eorth 

bmhren  talk  ver^-  niiKh  like  nm  in  lArir  litf. 


TITLES  OF  BOOKS. 


wugB  imn  Ihc  Mthcn  it  CAlted  "  The  Shop  c 
Oc  Spiritid]  A]^hn!jry :"  wc  tiwe  "The  %a,\ 
of  Mth,"  iiid  "The  Mxpcnnyworth  of  Divin 
Mill :"  one  of  thHK  works  hean  the  followin 
ebbonte  llllc ;  "  Some  liiK  Buluti  hiilieil  in  tb 


ntiUed  **  A  piir  of  SpnlAclei  fof  sir  I 
.iod."  The  doughty  Lnieht  irloricd,  b; 
IT  Sir  Humphrey  Llnd"!  swcticlerL.'* 


fcrtttodea  uid  puiip  **  Hie  Innocent  Lore,  or  ttie 
bsly  KBiobl,"  b  ■  dnoipliDn  of  the  ardnun  of  i 
foMbr  me  virgin.  "TbeSoundof  the  Trumpet," 
h  ft  vflrk  m  the  dfty  of  judnnmt  ^  and  "  A  Fan  to 
driTc  iwajr  nie*j'*   n   a  uieolD^cal  treitbe  on 

wernnit  not  write  to  the  utter  neglect  of  onr 
title;  nd  ft  fvt  lutliot  dunild  hire  Ihc  liteniy 
piety  of  ever  having  "the  fear  of  hii  title-page 
befne  tUi  nei,"  Tbe  follovlng  «re  improper 
Hflei.  Don  Matthews^  chief  huntiman  id  Philip 
tV.  of  apain.  entitled  hii  book  "The  Origin  and 


called"  Tie  Educition  of  a  prince." 

... penuade  the  reader  in  hli  preface,  thftt 

though  they  were  not  composed  with  a  view  la 


thii  luhject,  they  >ho«ld  ni 
Hired  for  the  title,  as  they 


entitled  i  cof- 
I  place ;  "  The 


Itie  epiatjn  of  Cruevan  dazzled  the 
e  with  their  aplendld  title,  for  Ihev  were 
Golden    Bpiitles ;"   at 


bookreco 


if  Ocometr>-  \  the  pew 


title  which  Gcoige  Gasccngnt  who  had  peal, 
merit  In  hii  day,  nu  given  to  uia  ccdlection.  ma^ 
be  conridered  n  it  specimen  of  the  titles  o'  *■" 
tima.   They  were  printed  in  1576.    He  cal 

tmoll  poesle  j  gathered  partly  by  translation  ii 


^"'^  " 


underlie  title  of  i:ni(.e  ^br  dHJim  ^  ind  Jiniiruii 
•Kvui  (irHi,  %c.  Home  liave  distributed  them 
according  to  the  me»ure  of  tiiiK.  u  tme  Fj 

Nada»l,  the  lerealer  part  of  whose  woikaarej 


ST.- 


rilh  th^^rtl 
In  the' sixth  ed 


ie  had  puni^ked 


perhaps  had  persiuilcd  some. 


To  undcrttaibd  this  tl 


we  must  recollect  that  the  biti  were  I 


e  generally  loo  prodigal  of  ih 


no                                          LITERABT  FOLLIES.                                                 \ 

Ibcir  lUlhon  arc  rDnlcmKd ;  hut  <hF  votki  cf   tiuv     PugTU   /Mnnni :  lU  Ibe  voids  bCKinnlne   1 

nwdi^t  luthoo,  tb(H«b  Ihn*  pmcnt  more  thin 
they  piwuHe,  nuy  Ol  of  iliricling  noiicc  hv 
Ihn'r  cxlrnne  timpllclty.    In  citbei  t«,  i  tot 

Si?}lSSSs  S''i2"5' 

kcloi  Df  boob  H  pi^naccdi  be  b  inlnccd  la 

GnBoiio  LMi  piesenled  a  ducouTse  to  Iht  Aca- 

tbcw  Tiluihk  oiiriu  ichoK  tillo  my  nol  b>M>«i 

vhich  he  bad  purpo-e  y  omitted  the  lettet  R,  and 

he  eniitW  it  the  eided  R.    A  ftitnd  hiring  rc- 

questcii  a  copy,  is  i  lilerair  runoiilv,  tin  id  be 

S^'io  ll«irAi.™™'nin?book»™fr^™ 

WIS  nol  to  ditlicuH  1  matlet,  nnlied  by  i  cojaoui 
antwer  ol  seven  pages  in  wbicf  he  h^  observed 

bought  Ihem.    He  <•»  tl<:^ln>u)  of  not  injuiing 

the  same  tcere  ostracism  agiin<  the  Liter  R ^ 

he  confewcd  Ihit  be  »Rietimn  could  not  help 

Lord  Kotlh,  one  of  the  ftnetl  gcntlrmen  in  Ibe 

tillej.  nor  to  be  deceii-ed  \h  Ihe  limaicltv  of 
otbm,  »hkb  the  modeuv  of  Ibrir  .u<W>~huI 

eich  of  which  b^ni  with  a  tuccewive  letter  of 

ibealphabel.    The  Eirlol  Rivets,  in  the  reign  of 
Edlrird  n'.lnnilaled  Ihe  Moral  pro.-erbl ol  Ariv 

rai-en  to  them.    Aftei  ill.  il  »  not  improbable. 
Olal  miny  iiilben  aw  really  neilbel  M>  vain,  nor 

or  liaiple  litis,  have  been  Biveo  from  the  dilSculIv 

elude  siilh  the  letter  E  j  an  ,n,«.n«  of  his  loid- 

offco^S'-rwhen. 

thhf  ■.  blrfapTlka^on,^  Ibe  1^  ^asl.  of  an  ^ 

It  it  n»  alien  «iih  ibe  -niln  oT  loaki, »  niih 

k«pm  at  «ild   bead!;  wbCR,   in   Eeneral,   Ihe 

■^iri'b^S'H  "bi^-rf of'u,™C"n"r^flert 

picnire  iMeifii  more  cunousiod  imitinglhin  Ibe 

whose  labours  may  be  well  cillid,  in  the  language 

ofDryden, 

-■  Pangs  wkhout  birth,  and  fruitless  induilr)-." 

LtTEHAKV    FOLLIES. 

And  Miflill  says. 

Tut  Brteki  compoKil  lypogtimmatic  woitj ; 

Turpe  est  diSciles  habere  nugai. 

omitted.     A  lypogtammatiu  it  i  leller-dmpper. 

Til  •  lOUy  lo  isreat  o'er  a  difficolr  trifle. 

he  hid  not  a  in  his  tint  iKwk  i  nor  ^  in  bii  tetond ; 

ind  u  on  H'ilh  Ibe  luhKquent  lelten  one  aflei 

J^l^matk  IB^^VwU.'^IlSISrg  "other 

vcfset  in  the  (ormi  of  beans.  «ing-.  altais.  and 

<rork>  of  Ihii  kind,  Alheum  mcntiou  in  ode  by 

gtMcviaeshipe;, 

Pindir,  in  vblch  he  but  purpovly  omitted  ibe 

been  one  of  those  llleiu)  lJiio»  »flcb  are  wtne- 

Tom  Sash,  who  loved  to  push  Ihe  ludicrous  lo 

duTcal  cUiricl  Hirvey^^  iis  thil'"^Bd  «Tit 

oppne  lueb  ptogiam  into  Ihe  realmi  of  uon- 

Thi.-fe  It  in  Ulin  i  hitle  prow  noik  of  FuUjen- 

verses  in  ill  kiadsi  in  Rnm  oil  piit  of  ekives,  1  piir 
of  >peclKh9.andipiiro(potLookslc."    Tliey 
iR  not  less  absurd,  who  upose  to  public  ridiculk 

liiu,  which  Ibe  inihnt  divides  inlo  twcnlv-lhree 

chiplcn,  according  to  Ibeorder  of  ihe  tuenty-ihree 

the  name  of  their  mitlrcts  by  emploving  it  to 

lettm  of  the  Unn  ilphibet.    From  A  to  O  are 

form  their  icmMics.     1  have  Ken  some  of  the 

the  second  vithoul  B;  the  ihitd  mithout  c  ;  and 

latter,  itbeie  toi*  iiJ«  and  ir.ii-w*;^i,  Ibe  name 

of  Ihe  mistiess  or  Ibe  pioDn  his  been  sent  do-Ti 

JO  with  Ihe  tell.     Uu  chat,  in  Ihe  Dudaliani,  lai-i. 

there  itc  n>e  norcb  in  prose  of  Lnpei  de  Vega ; 

the  lirit  vilboul  A,  Ihe  second  oilhout   E,  Ihe 

third  without  1,  S:c.    who  will  attempt  lo  e»i- 

wordi  by  which  Ibe  letlen  forming  the  name 

mineiheni? 

It  might  be  incRdible  Ihil  ■>  great  i  genmi  as 
Boccaccio  could  have  lent  himseif  to  these  lileruy 

tbUy.    APe.«anpoette.dtolbecelebr.ltdJ.mi 

fashiont  i  yei  one  of  the  man  gigantic  at  acrotiics 

stindinc  I  icrv  curioui  sonoet,  for  the  Uiur  Mit 

can'toi  1  of  which  Guinguen(  hat  preserved  a  spe- 

.« not  in  be  lonnd  in  any  one  of  the  mid.1 

cimen  in  hit  Liienry  HiUaly  ofltliv.  vol.  ii..  p,  14- 

tbing  )« ;  take  away  tU  iSi  UiIki  Inia  evctj- 

""to  ihac  t^riumube  added  the  Eclfm  t,  Cti- 

vii.byHugbaM  thcMonk.    AU  the  word)  of  Ibb 

vUyworkbcgiDwithiC.    It  it  prioted  in  Dotiia- 

LITESART  FOLLIES. 


niUna  luch  Rifling  dcvica.    He  bu  done 

'    'IHC  or  eight  lylUUn,  (be  itult  or  middk  of 
Mad  ihtf  CApiul  ia  equil  with  the  b»e.    The 

in  Hie  ooe  "  ye  rtHM  read  upwud»,"  lod  in 


irtured  into  such  lanlutit  formi,  that  the  trees  in 
udan  wrrc  twisted   and   %hcired  into  obeiisk^ 

hymn  wu  cvprctted  by  the  mystical  tnangje' 
Jmilkitti  formed  fiom  thcioiliil  letteiiof  ereiy 
;  but  1  dilTerent  conceit  regulited  thront' 

I  Uimi  in  whatever  tiart  or  the  word  they 
I  WCR   diilinguiihed   rroni   other   letlen   by 
being  written  in  capitali.    In  the  following  chnj- 


O'er  the  imoolh  plain,  the  bold  aina 
9f  Che  cAriHi 


Ihedi 


with  rant  irrtfular,  confilHi  ther  Hand. 
ThecHiErTAii'i  Ki hOLiHO  with  trie  i-nlgar1 
He  afterwarda  adds  otberi  or  thr  iUegiti 

Tojoin  thne  iqiudRnB.o'er  the  chimpain  i 

RUdIt  and  Kilvi,  Riddl^dearen  ion,' 
AtiifylHCi  


Fufrtdn.wtLofCfTcelydeinu  to  tread  the  ground, 
And  RtadruK,  whedibE  in  repeitnl  round. 
On  tbeii  fair  itandardsoy  the  wind  ditptay'd 
^W.  «"»i,  •TOP.  fifi,  '*•'  were  poiirtniy"d. 
I  And  the  origin  of  Bvutt^rmit,  or  "  Rhyming 
Bndi."  in  Coii>et'>Bib.ft.iri.p.i8t.  OncDulot, 
a  fooliih  poel,  wben  lonncti  ocTe  In  demand,  had 

robbed  of  hi«  pipers  he  was  regretting  mort  the 


tie  replied ;  and  eiplained  the  mywety  by  de- 

culoiu^  amusing ;  and  it  soon  became  faibionible 
lo  collect  the  most  *fficu1t  rhymes,  and  HU  up 


them  eontinually  ^  I  hare  rei<l  of  one,  wliov  min- 


:ix3  of  the  Latin  language;  on  tbii  principle  Sir 


of  hi<  Bacchanalian Mnnlike the  flgures of  tMilri. 

their  sense,  fliis  was  practised  hf  the  old  French 
lutds  in  the  age  of  Marol,  and  laa  poetical  whim 
ia  ridiculed  by  Butler  in  his  H  ulibras.  Pan  1. 
Canto  i,  Vene  190.  I  mve  an  eiample  of  Ihne 
poetical  echoes.  TbefoUowingonesareingeuloui, 


eat  poet  in  bii  day;  he  died  in  Ijir  He 
'ought  into  fashion  punnina  or  equivocal  riivmes, 
ich  ai  the  feUowing  which  Maroi  addreiwd  to 


LITEBJJir  FOLLIES. 


Li  pratiUe  t 
Ti^irr,  1  lit 


AQIive  aigni^ng  «  rirclr.  Tlic  Iblloa-ingu  a 
mn  :  It  »  ciEnnI  in  the  wketiDn  of  vtmb, 
what  Ibc  ?mKh  ulkd  richlr  riivmol— In 
t  )i  fine  poem,  but  It  hu  th  mraamg  *tut' 
•    rojin  Uanuh  Mid  u  be  wtiRni  by  • 

-'  ~niin  Bir^,  aiid  nihich  Gilben  Wikdicld 


!s.r. 


Qu*i]  or  hruTCQK  dt  v  dcTrndir 
Mutqu'U  ol  luhemt  de  K  nmdi 


Hadinw  Tncin,  "  thH  thev  » 


priiing  I  ibcvLd  bi  for 

irily  iiniiBa  a  cloak 
T  It  Aboiis  a  wmk 

tbon.  aal]F  lUapcKd  In 


rBlegelbfi 


ChrIM  in  nntDt  talm  (rom  Hoi 
conia  hnm  viiEil,  Arnone  tb« 
may  be  mcnMaiied  ALeiandec  R 


The  leader  ba«  only  lo  lake  i 


He  a«em  Ihii  Ihh  no>elty  ■>  entitelj-  hi>  own- 
[omlfla  in  tbe  laM  wotd  of  evm  ven.  fonn.ngtl 
lim  waid  oi  tbe  loUowing  rene ; 
Palleit-il  que  Iccid  me  Tendil  amaniroi. 


s,ia-s 


■n  afterward! :  vhcn  tbe  win  employed 
■njrce  of  literary  altercalloi^  btibs 


It  gilUnt  Honk.  UkewMher 


vii«,  "  Tlie  Zodiac  of  Life  i"  tbe  initial  Icnenof 
thelani  twenly-niDevennaf  the  6M  book  of  Ibit 
poem  TonniDC  bit  name,  wbich  cnrioui  parlicuUr 
ta  net  Duvkea  by  WaRcm  \a  bli  aecount  of  tbii 
work- — llie  penonnance  n  divided  into  twelve 


LITERAHY  FOLLIES. 


obably  dtcndnl  oi 


tiUc  It  not  \oai\y  withoui'i  ctsaii,  u'Oic  luib^ 

cdlui  iilinccniiu  SNUUiK."  The  imrk  ilxlf  ii  i 
cuiow  aim  od  the  Pdh  and  the  Chuich  ol 
Ronw.  II  CKcnioMd  Biyk  Is  cmnmil  i  nrnir):- 
iblc  li/iran  MwrAr,  which  t  iliill  rec«d  In  iu 
plKC.  OfftilliDcanniliBthDKIiinn.oro'hlch 
Pctnrch  irig  the  fuher,  wilb  hn  pcrpcluil  pliy  on 

hu  hinuelf  iflorded  i  rcoiailuble  cumple.    (>iir 


getin  of  tbc  growot  lutute  have  ttnn  aJluded  tD» 
or  quoted  u  lulhDriliet.    A  Am!  ^  Rnvtk  once 

prctenU  they  pwaes  a  wqtIi  written  by  AAum  -'  and 

of  .1  tiiioturr  theory  I  AMk  gravely  obvTves  that 
"  Willi  nni«i  to  (Oltjii^i  itDibnleil  lo  the  ^■le- 
4iliiviiBi,  it  KciM  not  only  decent  bnt  ntbonil  lo 
ujr  thai  we  know  nothing  mncnniiiK  them." 
without  lUudlBi;  to  liiins  writeri.  Dr.  Panoni,  in 
hii  eriHlile  "  Kenuin  of  J•|lhe^"  trarioK  the 
----  -f  tlic  alphibetical  characlcr,  wppDiei  thai 

al  libniici  in  the  Aik  b(  Noah  •. 


umintf.  or  are  rotindcd  on  foiwiei. 
Haffi  Bronghlon,  a  writer  oTcontroreny  in  Ibe 


Fpktii,  the  laoguace  which  Etjt  HtM  ' 
other  claMicai  emailion.  Tliit  writer 
ill  Ben  Jonion*i  Conxdlcij — he  !■  a 
rivali  even  in  the  pioent  day  1    Covarr 


critici  who  aflccled  ffreal  dcticicy  in 
Epic  poem,  pretentM  lo  be  doubltul 
poet  had  Bied  on  tbc  right  lime  (or  a  I 
whether.  laid  tbey.a  king  ihoald  ban 
■tioiin  OB  hajfrifnfiv  M  (eJoratthi 
/tllruimn  inarainj-/    Ho  One  aeenied 


ikJDg  king  Manuel 


ChevTcau  bc^nihii  History  of  the  World  In  lb 

no  lun.  no  moon,  nor  Man,    But  ai  the  world 
Ihb  quBtion  haa  eaerciacd  the  talents  ol  the  m 
was  In  the  monui  of  ffiidn.  that  i*,  in  the  mit 

which  begin!  IbeclTllveaTar  the  Jevi.  and  that 

auwen  lo  our  SrfmOiT,  thai  Mamini  Sin 

four  o'clock  in  the  afternoon-'*  Ttin  it  accoi 
lo  the  Rabbinical  notion  ol  the  ere  al  the 

The  lilih  anllquaria  mention  fvMi  (iti 
that  were  before  the  flood ;  and  Panl  Chri 

eiact'caulogueoC^diim'f.    Hcnieun  O'nabeny, 

corded  ai  authentic  narrationB  Ihc  wildcat  li 
dary  traditiont ;  and  mord  lecenlly.  to  make 
rnwn  doubly  conrounded,  othen  haic  buil 


of  Mumter  t4lh  May,  in  the  rear  of  the  wort 
iqH?.    Tbia  giant  aueeeeded  In  nil  enterprise,  bu 


laughter  by  her 


wife   exposed  him   to  th* 


1  coolrnled  wllh  Homers  pocti- 
,  make  him  Ibe  most  auUienlic 
SI  accural*  gccsraphcr  of  inti- 
lowing  him  with  all  the  artt  and 
nd  in  our  Encyclapaidia.  Evei 
lie  has  been  written  to  ihow  b; 
ufeiindj  of  his  heroes,  that  bi 
tiHc  anatomist  I  and  •  mllitar, 
lold  na  Ibat  flem  bim  la  derived 
he  modem  a<bol>nl  and  quaner- 

*e  DOW  poiacsa  ;  and  Ibat  Xcnnphon,  Epaminon- 
Ihe  journalist,  who  had  wit  and  malice,  'nterted 
Hague.  These  were  the  "^^  "1  enjoy  tl 
dote  agalnit  melucholy  i  Nil "— &c.    Hf  Poi 


LITERAF. 


ic  hfttflilh  cc 


h  po*bbly  ShikapcuT  ir 


la  lEc  anK  clxt  we  to  be  plicnl  mDoibn-  wrilcn. 
Brebeuf,  ttbo  wrote  CTw  hundred  ind  fifty  cpignnb 


poerna  died  "Zj  H"ie  J" 
Not  long  ign.  1  Mr.  inri  Mn.  BUdenllk.  in 


ne  of  ItK  Ihike  of  But  kin^l 


•••it.  Ihtt  K  to  the  tilmeH  nr  badnev  of  the  liand- 
Brilinn."  &(.,  and  pmntdt  throughout  i  whoh 
pagGp  Kilh  4  p«netf>Tic  on  ■  fiiv  ^anO^vfiunf ' 
Dull  men  Kem  to  have  ai  licnct  great  cliinu  to 

■  pun  in  Ihe  Krare  and  elahonte  vork  of  a  Lexi- 
eon,  A  nory  li  ■  Lcen  raiml  ID  BccouDt  for  ill 
and  It  bu  been  ,<  -ibrd  lo  the  impnienl  intcqec- 
''■*-  ~' ■*" '—licotfr  pher  Co  hli«cTibe»wbo»  taking 


"Coxcirano.  lorun  wJthoiheta;  to  run  togetb 
lacamelogclber;  lofidl  (oulon  one  uwlher; 


wnl  a  nfflr  It.  the  Rrdlliman'i  Magaaine  lo  in- 
quire Ihe  it}™il..uv  ft  Ibc  word  runrWMM. 
Hitlni;  olHainnl  (he  ioliirrrutJiHI,  be  RCOtdi  n 
hii  work  Ibe  ohlioticin  to  in  unninioui  tottrr- 
vTiter,  ■■Cunnuditena,  ■  riliain  wtj  of  pro- 
dent."  A<h  eopieil  (he  word  into  hi>  Dietitmirr 
in  fhltmanneTT  Turrnudgeon:  Irom  the Flmch 

Thn  nnKulai  negligence  cughl  to  be  plKed  in  the 

Icxtcognphicjl  anecdote?. 

Tko  lingular  litcran  (nilin  bai-e  been  pncfiied 
on  Millon.    There  i«  j /mir  iwnrri  of  hH"fira- 

tbc  Pienrh  i-enonn  of  hii  Epic  1    One  Urecn  pob- 

ditc  IxpM"  inio  Njni  tmif  For  (bi>  impDie 
be  haa  ultctly  ruined  the  baniHinir  nf  ttilti  n*! 
radentci,  by  «  hat  he  contrived  lo  be  "  bringiag 

ceived  by  tbe  French  Acadcmv,  hid  the  pormil 
of  Cardinal  Richelieu  engraved  on  hi>  litu-pige, 
encircled  by  a  crown  nf  Miy  tmji.  in  ejeh  of 

/.rrjaMdrnkuJ. 

'Ille  «eir-cauilatiDni  rtf  aulhnri.  frequently  em- 
ploj-edhy  injudicious  wriien»  ptace  Ebem  in  ridi- 

■  hich  be  inlendcd  lor  ■  CfTloprdia,  Imrkcd  inch 
■n  opinion  ol  ill  eilcrHtie  i^e,  Ibil  he  pot  on 

the  (enlle  nailer  that  it  vr.uld  nM  be  tbe  laM. 


hotel  alt  ilt  fthNTyf    .„-,  ,-  .- , — ,- 

member  of  a  Ftenrb  parliament,  who  wm  oi 
bejTd,  aftc*  hi>  lediC'U^  nanngne,  mutt^nt  n 


Se^-eral  Ibrgotien  writers  ha^-e  frequentlv  been 
intruded  on  the  public  eve,  merely  through  wch 

particulu  loeiety,  or  natitea  of  lome  pjrticular 
eounlTT.  CordelieTa  hire  btood  forward  to  revive 
the  wnlingi  of  Di 


/  ; 


/  M:)    f"\-//:"\-/-.\.^  V. 


m;   I 


:-  I.  .• 


J  ■] 


1. 


r 


.1 


■  -      ..!■,.■    t-    W 


'':i-ijili  liiLrf-\  U-l;n.^  M -Llii  lUi  h'- li  !■»  rri-iili- 
tli.' rc!iiu-l  «kj--cri.«tion.  The  tw/jii.  >?.th«ii«i'  in 
h  nfic  wjy  Ciim^iU'd  vMth  the  .tutf.'if.  tlicir  nlj- 
fc^i  m»|  irt>  tticm.  ami  jhunti-inth  luri)i<'ti(-<i  i-nlo- 
j:ium««hiili  the  autlmr  nctcr  iiientnl,  ih.ii  thcy 
nu)  thus  ot'liiiiicly  rciicct  vitnc  |>r.ii«c  nii  thLiii- 
*L-hei.  Tilts  1^  in:iilc  vi  ailmitlv ,  sri  lUlu atch ,  jiid 
» {rncc.il.-il,  tliur  it  xs  net  {iTCciicil. 

Thcliitinv^incarc  %irani;c  in\cutiiin'*,  nri:;in  i^int: 
■stbcwiliul  lijtl  XnsXc  u\  the  .iuMk  r«.    Oi m  \  i.- 
*x«,  tlic  mmtt-r  of  KiiIk-'Un  i'*tlic  iK-^i'mcr  of  if 
nUirt  m'^rui  lU  /j  t'u  huj*i,iire.     In  thts  imlili- 
miricdl  hi9t(tr>-  *.(  hunnjn  lil'c,  he  hiii  tjken  hi.« 
yibciK  Jmm   HiiMce;  hut  iiTt.nnh   hr*  i'oncf|i- 
liinMiFc  not  Horati.m.     He  t.ik(.'«  eicry  iin:ik;e  in 
J  <i.Vf j/ 9cnte.     It  H(.r3Le1^^,  *' Mmir  ttulnttum 
cr»iLiis  BkEVEM,"   bch(l<]    Vcniu't  takfs  hretis 
piiviiulli .  and  re(ircMrnt<«  ii.lU  as  ,i  iitrU  ihtt « htU ' 
i  of  Di  t  iV'te  three  i.r  t(  tir  \c.irt  rid  !     In  the  ein- 
I  t'cm  which  answers  Homlc'h  "  Hatu  jr::tie,Ur.ttm 
ntltitam  dticuit    PEHk   y<tSK   i  i..\t.  no/'  ^'c  hnd 
Putii*hmcnt  with  a  wet  Jen  Uj:. — And  for  "  prtvis 
n  I  iihUK  *Vitvs,"  wc  haie  a  dark  hiir\inK  %.iuit, 
virli  Jujt  ^pnnklcd  vlic-'Ut  the  tlcMir.  ant^  .t  thuiiv';r 
VAlkin J  iipn^hc  Ixrtw-cen  two  r  ini;e^  t>f  iirm.    F»-.r 
"/'jr/uj  fjr  fi:tum  /uj^cft,  *t  t!ipur-ti.i  fuma  stul- 
Muiarxiitg,"  mi^t  lUtly  lie  ^iti-n  <;:iiii  or  eiijht 
Viie>  |jtip>nin;;  Virtue,  and  Ki  liy  |uit  at  the  lieeln 
pf  \Vi4ti.-.rn.    I  ^Jw  in  an  tn.ili:<h  Bd)le  prinTed  in 
Hdilind  un  in'Taniect  the  Nitne  ta^te  :  the  .irtist, 
to  iliu^fj^e  '*  1  hf'U  9ec«t  the  mvlr  in  thy  neigh- 
bour*^ e>e,  Init  not  the  t^am  in  thine  <imii,"  h.i^ 
actually  |iia^'i:d  an   iinnienMr  Ix'ain  whitli  projCLts 
fmm  the  e>e  of  the  r;i«iller  to  the  i^ri  iiiid  ! 

A*  a  cf>iuru->t  to  the  tixi  ohviMis  tj<'te  df  VE\n;«, 
m\\  he  pl-uetl  C«.s.ire  di  Kip^,  whu  is  the  aiithfir 
I  (  in  Ilaliiixi  work,  translated  inKi  niiiit  Eur'>i>ean 
Unpia^cv  the  Jc>-nuUi;iJ ;  the  fa%i:urile  U  ok  of 
tU-  ai^:,  -tnd  the  fertdc  parent  fit  the  most  alisurd 
r-ffciinni*  which  Ta<kte  nan  knc-wn.  Ripa  is  an 
«bikly  '•iihlile  ai  Veniut  \»  filiMi'iU't ;  and  a»  far- 
/t'l  lied  in  hi'«  conceits  »s  the  other  i^  liler.il.  Kipa 
n.prex.-nt«  Beaut)  hy  a  naked  Uid>,  with  her  head 
in  a  c  k:iid  ;  becauK  the  true  idea  of  heaiitv  itt  hard 
to  lie  ctinceivcd  '  Flattery,  hy  a  |.id>  with  a  tintc 
in  her  hand,  and  a  stag  at  her  feet*  heeatisc  «tap 
are  Mid  to  love  miLiic  *o  nuich,  that  they  sutler 
thein.M:lvc^  to  be  taken,  if  )ou  pl.iv  to  them  on  a 
Bute.  Fraud,  with  two  hearts  in  one  hand,  and 
a  ma>k  in  the  other: — hist  c<:llection  n  t<N>  nume* 
roiu  to  point  out  more  initance^.  Kipa  alio  de- 
»i.n(>es  how  the  allecorieal  figures  are  to  lie 
ct'kiurcd ;  Hope  i»  to  Tia%e  a  skyhlue  nihe,  be- 
cau<  flhc  always  lock«  towards  heaven,  tnough 
cf  these  Capricciti ! 


LITERARY  CONTROVERSY. 

I  1st  the  article  on  Miltok  I  had  rKcanion  to  give 
Kwne  stnctum  on  the  asperity  of  litcrar>'  coiitru- 
vert)  :  the  sfiecimens  I  brouf^it  forward  were 
drawn  from  bb  own  and  Salmasiius's  writinip.  If 
towme  tbe  subject  has  appeared  exceptionable, 
to  me,  I  confe»,  it  •ecmi  lucfnl,  and  I  shall  there- 


::.  -.in    !■;  .ii.  l.-    .      ••(•!■:.,.,■....■..;,.  .,.•.. 

.T:     .«|I-.-*:i       ll'.l      :i     I.    .■ll.V         lit       I    Xtli    <l,l      .       »lt       l.li   \ 

were  (.iiip.-ut-tl  h\  the  lirst  Mhi>iir>  in  Kimpi-. 
I  Martin  Luther  wao  not  (k-ititute  iit  ^i  niiiv  of 
learning  or  of  eloi)iiciH-e  ;  hut  his  imkiue  dis* 
tiuiired  liH  works  with  inieitues,  and  Miuiii.inti'.H 
ni  ahuH.'.  I'he  i^reat  reli.rinir  of  supt.rsi.iii  n  had 
himself  all  the  %iilt'.ir  chu-h  k\  hit  dj\  :  he  helieied 
that  liie«  were  deviK;  .niil  th.it  he  hji|  h.ul  .i  hul* 
lelin-'  with  S.itan.  when  his  |.  It  ear  kit  the  pni- 
ihifMir.'t  lieatin^.  Hiir  htm  •  X[>res-«  hiiii<  ii  in  the 
Cilhilic  di«:iii-s:  '* 'I  he  l'.i|ii-l.  .ire  all  is-*--.,  iint 
will  alw.i\H  rt-ni.nn  .i«^s.  put  ihein- in  uh.iii.-\er 
>aiice  jou  thiMise,  hoiled,  ro.iMed,  haki-il,  tmil, 
skinned,  beat,  li,i\hed,  they  jre  alwais  the  Mnie 
as-^H." 

(ientle  anil  moderate,  roi!i|i.in'd  with  a  lahite 
to  Ills  Holinem. — "The  I'upe  w.is  iMini  nut  <■!  the 
DeiilN  posteriors.  He  ii  lull  ot  devik^,  lies,  hi as- 
phemie->,  and  iilnl.iine*  ;  he  is  anti•(.'ll^l^t  ;  the 
ri'hher  fif  chureln.-s ;  the  rnHhirol  iir^ins;  the 
^•reatest  <.f  piin|fs;  the  K"^«-'""*r  <■'  Sf'«!i>m,  &c. 
If  the  Turks  l.iyliold<if  iis,  then  we  sh.illlic  in 
the  hands  of  the  IX*%il ;  hut  if  we  remain  with  the 
pitpe,  we  shall  tie  in  hell.  \Mi.it  a  plta-ini;  Aii;ht 
woiilil  it  he  to  H-e  the  Kope  and  the  ('inlinih 
hanfjin;*  ( n  one  gallows,  in  ex.ut  order,  like  the 
se;iLs  whuh  d.ini;le  fnnn  tlie  hiilU  of  the  Popi' ' 
What  an  excellent  louncil  would  they  hi  Id  under 
the  Kallows'" 

SoineTiiiies,  de^irou^  nf  eatchin^  the  attention  oi 
the  txilurir,  I.utluT  alttnipts  to  enliven  hit  »tyle 
hy  the  j»rosstst  hnl!rMineries :  "Take  tare,  iny 
little  Ptipal  my  little  ass!  ^o  on  slowly:  the 
times  are  slippery :  thi»  >ear  is  dan>^-Ti.us :  if  thou 
fallevt,  they  will  ext  laini.  See  *  how  our  little  Pfii>e 
is  spoilt !"  It  was  l<irtunite  lor  the  caiMe  ol  the 
Kelormation  that  the  «iolenie  of  Luther  was 
softened  in  a  ronsiderahle  decree  at  times  h\  the 
meek  Melmithin  ;  he  often  poured  honey  on  the 
stinK  inflicted  hy  the  an>;ry  liee.  Luther  was  no 
respecter  of  kini^s  ;  he  was  so  fortunate,  imlced, 
as  to  hnd  amon^  his  antakti  ni^ts  '  irr-wnctl  head  ; 
a  Kteat  Rood  fortune  tt-r  .m  ohsiure  lontrnver* 
sialist,  and  the  \er}  pumtum  taluns  ol  mntro^eriiy. 
Our  llcnr\  VIII.  wn.te  his  iMNik  a>;ain^t  the  new 
doctrine:  then  warm  from  vholasiu-  stuilies, 
Henry  presented  Iao  X.  with  a  woik  hi^lily 
crcdiialile  to  his  abilities,  .md  no  inferior  perlbrm- 
ance  according  to  the  genius  ol  the  ai;r.  Collier, 
in  his  EcclesiaMii  al  Hi-tory,  has  analysed  the  book, 
and  does  not  ill  desert  he  its  spirit :  "  Henry  seems 
superior  to  his  advers^iry  in  the  vi^ur  and  pro- 
pricty  of  his  style,  in  the  force  of  his  reasoniuKi 
and  the  leamin^  of  his  citations.  It  is  true  he 
leans  t09  much  upon  his  i  haractcr,  ar^ue»  in  his 
l^arter-rvbts,  and  writes  as  'twere  with  his  tctpter." 
But  Luther  in  reply  abandons  his  pen  to  all  kinds 
of  railing  and  abuse.  He  addresses  Henry  VIII.  in 
the  follriwink;  style  :  "It  is  hard  to  say  il  lolly  can 
be  mure  foolish',  or  btupidity  more  stupid,  than  is 
the  head  of  Henr>-.  He  has' not  attacked  inc  with 
the  heart  ot  a  kiiik:,  but  with  the  impudence  of  a 
kna%-e.  Tliis  rotten  worm  of  the  earth  haviuK 
blasphemed  the  majest>  of  mj-  kiwfi,  I  have  a  just 
right  to  bespatter  his'  Eni;lish  majestv  with  his 
own  dirt  and  ordure.  'Ibis  Henry  h.ts  lied." 
Some  cf  his  origin.d  expressions  to  our  Henry  Vin. 


Literary  coxtsoversY. 


on  the  tutc  of  that "  bitter  bnba ;"  tor  in  A 
lull  of  tbe  cudniutioa  of  Inutiiil  Loyo\M  I 
August,  ifiij.  Lulhcr  it  called  Hun/'mm  iturr 


pcIUtiTO  of  bulla,  nHi,  call,  ind  hop  I     8 
Catholic  and  Lutheran  arc  alilic  liatcd.    Yci 

fmiDentlyboaMiarhismildnai.    when  h< 


the  luiuriant  ahUM  of  bii  muler.  when  he 
writtfiKainat  Tillemaii,  a  LuUteran  mlniater,  he 
beHow9  on  him  the  Mlowing  lilln  of  honoui : 
"  Mypbrmu ;  an  ape ;  a  glut  h  who  ■•  dntin- 

m  ind  villi  aia ;  a  villain  who  meritt  han^ng  on 

cinn  him  of  DDunihing  the  ecs  which  Lulhet 
hitched.     Tliae  men  were  alike  nippmed  bi- 

Biihop  Bedell,  a  great  and  good  nun,  mpecled 
eifen  by  hia  advenario,  in  an  addrefl  lo  hb  clergy. 


0  ^(grice  Ibe  man  with  acoldi' 
lid  of  Aleundcr,  I  diink,  when  )i 


trile  him  ;■  and  mi  lenliinenn  of  trealing  the 
litbolin,"  concludct  BedeU."aR  not  eantbnii' 


■hex  luHered  themselTO  to  jield  to  Ibe  it 


ageouily  abuaed  her.    The  nory  will  , 


with  the  nuid  who  usually  attended  her  to  the 

reproached  her  with  being  ■  dntniardr  Ttut 
tnigtf  warJ  ilruck  her  fo  pDignanlly  tbal  il  opened 
her  undentanding ;  aiwl  tehecting  on  the  dcfor- 


epilhets  which  he  has  to  liberallv  bestowed  on  Ins 
adveiuiies  bj'  Ihe  example  of  Jbus  Chiiil  and  the 
apcMtles  I    It  was  on  these  grounds  also  Ihat  the 

with  which  he  hat  occasioiullv  di^Hgured  his  Pro- 
vilkcial   Letter*.      A    JrMial,  'fminout    for    twenty 


.-astvarietyDf  lerpenta.iiaca^mpjnicil 

by  Ihe  names  of  Ibe  beretki  iksignated '. 


-rtaken  by  the  learned  iV*er,  then  3 
I  utiiterul  joy  through  the  Pruletf. 


LtTERABY  COXTSOVERSr. 


u^t  rue  1  long  while  thU  their  liappiM 
depended  on  tiecidingi  whcEher  univtiiuli^  ttul 


dard,  which  fEt>duced  ^  Kcr  of  the  Avmi- 
Ked  independent  oT  LndividuiLi, — though  they 


m-ived  tlic  dyins  emben.    Louii  XI.  Adopted  the 
Nominoli^i,  adiI  the   NcHninalisb  Hounsbed  at 

Pcpe  John  XXUI.  pilroniicd  the  KealiiB,  and 
throughout  Italy  l(  wasdangcrous  for  a  Nomiualiit 

the  Pope  tnumphed;  hjs  m^jeily  pubLiihed  an 


IK  liolence  with  which 


Ihii  lerrirying  itonsenv^  ''thai  there  bad  been 

employed  in  maltiiUE  thenuelvei  maslen  of  the 
world ;  Ihat  llie  richer  ol  Crceiu*  were  lofcrkiT 


:e  where  tiKy  bad  been  groping 

Lv  be  added  that  Kamui  having 
'     -     "       -ling  us  chimeras."  iQ 


hisichoLanrctotledi  (be  parliamenl  pula  ttop  li 
his  lectures,  and  at  length  havinff  brought  thi 


ine  iDwn-wils  Ol  dq  time,  outinguiinea  pimseir 
bjr  bb  wralh  ag^mt  the  Mbaj^H-    Aiter  bavina 

Ihe  kingdom,  which  never  cook  place  '-•-—■-  -'-- 


madejestBorblm.and  Bldcrton  coi 

eiammed  noK  lo  nothing^  in  bear-biling  him 

with  whole  bundle!  of  balla&"    Marlowe  declared 

hornet!,  he  avenged  himself  In  a  very  cowardly 

g'S  Sw«^.d"S'i.rr  sis 

But  tldf  controTersy  concerning  Aristotle  and 
Ebe  actioDl  divinity  wu  even  proiotigcd  so  late  as 


philosophy,  t 


-Dtcnot  in  the  college   at   t 
■  6«g   four    «ilum«    of    nerip. 

eiploded,  and  he  wrote  an  abi 


(  Benedetto 


keeping  uiem,  under  pain  of 
eacommunicalion.  and  Ibe  cmrdlniL.  more  active 
than  thJc  bull,  ciuaicd  all  the  copies  which  were 
found  in  Ibe  anthor'i  bouK  to  be  thmwn  inn  M> 
ua  r  The  author  with  lean  in  his  eyes  beheld 
Ihem  eipatriated,  and  hardly  hoped  their  •oyue 

link  family  of  the  Crimaldis  were  not  drowned— 
for  a  storm  araae,  and  happily  drove  ashore  many 
of  the  floating  copies,  aiul  Ihese  lalling  inio  good 
and  charitabK  han'b,  I1>e  heretical  opinlom  of 
poor  Gtimaldi  BguDst  Aristotle  and  school  divinity 
were  sdll  read  Inr  thOK  who  were  not  oul-lenilied 
by  ihe  Pope's  bulli.     The  laluil  pnsagcs  were 


ii8                                      LITERARY  COSTROVERSr.                                              \ 

Scioppiu.   was  a   critic,   »  skilfnl  a*  Salmaiius 

kimllcil  only  by  lubjMB  of  polite  Utttiluit. '  Tht 
piniculin  fotm  •  cuiioui  biciiir  or  the  Uiie  incl 

or  SciUgir,  but  sliU  more 'learned  in  the  biKuage 
of   abuse.      He   wa.    legstd^d  B  the    Atliij    o( 

cbuurtcroftbr^. 

luthon.    He  bnafiddlbiihe  h>docc»o»d  the 

"There  ta."  «jr»  Jcwph  Sc^liger.  Ihjl  greil 

deaths  of  Casaubon  and  Scaliger ;    and  such  w» 

D[  iFhiirh  thoK  lint  arc  ifnonnt  miy  be  ultl  lo 
itbiae  olhcn  much  leo  thin  tbcf  ihw  i  inaine- 

with  repeated  satires  n>ir  J»me»  the  tint,  who, 

•Tilinzi  to  be  burnt  in  London,    pelnled  and 

close  o(  hb  life,  w«  fc.rf.J  be  idiouM  find  no 

retreal  in  which  he  might  be  secure. 

vinkot,  tlul  il  tasted  Ihirtjr  yi«j1     He  hum>. 

The  oitat  CMuhon  cmnlm-s  Ihe   dialect  of 

fl.  CUes's  in  hit  furious  alUcb  on  tbe  learned 

vbich  unnl  u  lonf-. 

Dilccbamp'.  Ihe   iJtin   Irjmlator  <■!  Alheniu*. 

Baillcl,  when  he  rdbtcd  the  teminieDti  of  a 

To  this  creal  phi^iiian  he  stood  more  deeply  m- 
dcbted  thin  be  chose  to  confer- ;  and  lo  con«*l 

him :  hut  when  he  (oiind  »n)'  otwrvjtion  whkti 

Ihe  claims  of  (his  literary  creditor,  be  calkd  out 

Batk  obKTvn,  Ibit  "  Ihii  b  in  eicen  of  pnlile- 

txhinn  of  that  day  wilh  the  m'dri.ibtjMe   and 

ever  c»iit  in  the   lepobiic   n(   Ictlen;   thil   il 

whelm  each  other  wilh  iiis«lire  1  ind  ID  CDRdder 

ihould  be  >IIcnreil  ilwiyi  lo  lunic  tbote  o-faom 

then  o™  srandenc  to  consb.  h>  Ihe   bulk  cl 

■wt  reCiitei   ud  tbu  it  1>  •ofKcicnl  for  Ibi,  pur- 

Iheir books,  and  Iheir  tiimnphs  In  ledueing  ibeir 

ine  th«  .e  binHb   »»«ii,,  malice,  and   in- 

brother  cianti  Into   puny  dsrarfs.     In   scieive. 

deeeiwv." 

Arici    thew    preliminary    olwtvilkini.   I   AaU 

bring  foTwatd  'arkiui  eiimnlei  wheie  Ihis  tx- 

MathioliB  would  have  been  Ibe  greal  m.in  cf  hb 

t^Ucnt  .dvke  i.  by  no  .ne»»Wg.rded. 

Er=.nin.   pr«lneed    a    diak^gne.   in  -.h^b    he 

U-ho   i<  Knlitied  bv  "(be  nud  Comarus,"   or 

ridiculed  th^  xholan  «ho'™e  Kniie   im.- 

-  (he  flaied   Foil  ?"'  lilies   which  Fuchsi.is  and 

up  Ihe  uaunilci. 
The  heat  and  jcrimCnv  of  verbal  eritics  hire 

(reit  hamour.    Juliiu  C»ar  Sciliger.  the  blhet, 

£ba  w»  then  unknown  lo  the  *o.Ul.  had  been 

eaeeedcd  descxiptior.     "ITieir  stiamai  and  ana- 

long  loakiDg  lor  lome   occauon   to   diuinguidi 

hinncir;  he  now  wiote  ■  defence  of  Ciceio,  bill 

lion  agaiosl  the  ottences  lo  n-hich  (hey  have  been 

directed.    "God  eonfonnd  j-ou,- cried  one  gram- 

marian lo  mother,  "  for  )-our  Ihcory  o(  imper. 
soiial   Itrbs!"     litere   was  a   king  and   lemble 

>  demon  hot  from  heU  i     The  «me   sciUpi, 

ket  was  lo  prevail  over  Ihe  others.    The  icadeniy 

bim^'ir  It  the  coit  of  oIbn%  iltaeked  Cardan's 

ben  w«k  Dt  StbtlUiau  ■   hb  (riiicisn  did  dm 

WRc'i^n  on'lhc  i^al  o*ionuUini;''ll'ib  su^ 

appcw   liU  «.co  i-ean  »(ler  the  lirJ  edition  of 
tbe  wot*,  and  then  he  Dbninalely  IttKk  to  (hill 

of  tSne  lilenry  canons :  and  In  i  leiier  of  those 

edition,  Ihoiuh  Cardan  hid  coineled  il  in  lubK- 
qucnt  ooei ;  >H>t  thi>  StiUga  chw,  Uut  he  mighi 

times  Ihe   loUowinK    ratlgraph    appears^    ■■  1*^ 

Beni,  wtiich'%iil7^nnl  |Sease  him ;  1  now  believe 

have  a  wider  field  fiir  fan  attack.    Alter  this,  1 

tbe  propbecy  ol  Citalicr  Tedescbi  will  be  i-eriiied, 
and  (hal  (hb  conmnerfv,  begun  with  pens  will 

tion  from  o,.t  Juliua  Cnan  lodocibK  pen  i  then 

Scali^er  pretended  to  led  all  the  legrel  poslble 
lot  1   mtn  he  had  killed,  and  nbom  he  now 

endwiibponiard.-         "      ^ 

praivd  :  bowerer.  bii  Tenet  had  a>  llllle  fnindl' 
lion  „  his  Iriumph  i   £r  Cardan  outlhed  Seali- 

KIT   manr  Jean,   and   lalned  hia  crilici-nu  too 

ot  PoBgiufc  who  Im  thus  enlllled  levenl  lilenir?- 1  Cur.^^^^^ 

libels  cooipowd  a^nx  ■ome  o[  liii  adnnarich       when  cihlcs  >Tnture  tn  attaek  the  nerton  a> 

Uh  poisoned  chalice  to  hb  own  lips ;   dcclama-  ,  mend   Ihc  .alutaiT   nnxeedinB.  ol  Hubems.  the 
t»nsofKnrrilil.,oh«enity,««lea!umny.»tich    -tiler  D(.ne«eeme.rtIni.-eralHi«m-.      He  h^d 

ITT  noticed  iB  Mr.  Shepherd's  Lite  of  tofpta.           been  so  roughly  hjndjed  liv  Peiismius,  thai  he 

Kcloppius  was  ■  worthy  •oecooi  of  the  Sec  1  obliged  him  u>  make  tbe  iminJ,  Ht^rrmNi  in  a 
ligcn  :    hb  fivonrite  eipmuoa  wu,  Ihlt  be  had  '  ccnirt  ofjuAice. 

*■:!•■.  r,  vi.i.-:!   I.:- 


*■■■.    r  .  ■■:.    .   -   •.     ■»    •  .     1-,  1 


!■•' 


.1'    { :•.■■.  :•. 


<tr.  i-y.v  '..i  rli 


Ucrs,  tip-th'.r  of  the  cckhfaTcil  M  uli.m'^i'.'ilv 
■  >ciiiit'n,  wx*  *  rrje  P.:riii'»«;  m  l'u!!y.  'I  lie  rir«t 
.'  ^^ubliciti'-n  >A!:r-'ii  l-rou^;':.!  liitn   1:1*0  n'>tue  u  «• 

I    j]«   cdltjf-n    (  I'   rll^    Ur:Tko   C:f   llI->  frict.ii   '1  I'.'.l  pitllr. 

He  ccDi!ii>lc4  IlI..:  prcijic  with  ilic*-  Miuiilar  cx- 
pTe*K.n*~'"l  il»»  ii' t  hoii;tlc  l'»  tla  I  irc,  ihit, 
Aaii'n^t  ill  the  <ic:iJ,  jnil  :i:i  the  h\in.{,  thrrc  i« 
no  p-:rvin  who  hx*  -invrhin-^  t'»  ••iiciw  th.tt  ap- 
prr<akhe-*  Thtr  fiine  cf  tlni  \i^«irtM!'»  ciiii-kN;  livit 
if,  ■  n'-nj,*t  tl'.e  iittcr,  .inv  i-ric  ^vtv  mi  cxtri- ' 
i.i^jr;  .i«  lo  cim-ivUr  thit  I  ilitr.ut  fn'in  hi- 
imj;  n.in  i:.T>,  t«' "Juiw  li'.:n  thii  I  k'lr  !■«  hnk 
«•  I  f^tcvni  lii:ri,  thi>  i>  t>-  inttirin  hiiii,  thit  my 
namv  i>  I 

1)1   Si  frifiY."       I 

A    «niiljr    r'n^loniont.iil"?    i»    tii  it    «  I    CI  inilc " 
Tri'lUn,  I  j-fti*.al  ••"Idicr,  wJ.-i  li«\;ins  hi*  ii't-in- 
hv  cii  ilkT.j;in»  the  triln.";  .iv^urui-^  thcin  fh.it  i! 
am   riit  .titemi't*  to  ccii->urc  l.iui.  hi-  \\\.l  «  ;il\ 
c-'.'iiilC'U.cnil    lo   jn*--^cr  ^u•.rll    i:i    hi:iil.      F  i:h(.r 
M.u'ri!«'.    A     Pt-nii^iic-c    Jc-i:it,    I.  iiiii:    >iiTitti.-n 
ac-iin-t   dnlin.tl    Norri<,  cm  iht-  ii.'nki.rv  nl   St.  " 
Au'Tis.  it  »"i*  liccmcil  iifi  c:»  iry  t-i  •n-uic  b<»tli  • 
pAniir«.       M.iceHo,   C'-mpc'.lc«l    to  rci:nt|ui«h   the 
pen.  ^cr.t  hi*  ail\cr>.iry  a  ( h.iMcn.^c,  .iii'l  .iii'irdiii-^ 
tn  the   1jv«»  oi   chivalry.  4{i|>i>ini*.ri   -a  pl.-icc   tor 
tncct:i:^   in   the    wocl   ol    H'Uilojne.      Another ' 
rilict  to  forlit<l  the  duel !    Macedo  then  munnureil . 
J7  ht%  h^nJ  fate,  whit-h  woiiltl  not  siiikr  hiin,  Inr  j 
tl^VAke 
!ar  re 


ike  ot  St.  Amtin,  fr>rwhr.m  he  li-i-l  a  pirtku- 1 
iTird,  tn  ipill  neither  hi^  wk  nor  hi^  t-luml.         i 


Anti,  prttixed  to  the  name  <>l  the  i»«.r^in  .it- ^ 
tjiked,  wA^  nnce   a  taic. write  title  to  honki  nl 
.iUTirv  c^ntTo^cr^-.     With    .t   cniicil   re\icw   *A 
»u«.h  fi<'ok«  B^illct  h%4   tilled    a  f|iurtn  it<lume:| 
let  4uch  Viis  the   ahnnd.int  h:tr\eM,  that  he  Ictt 
cun'".derjbltf  gle*nin^  tor  iH-Kteri«)r  iiidiHtry. 

.\nti-rironoiiu*  wj^  j   f>'<»k  ptthlioheil  di;ain«it 
Gronniia*.  by  Kustcr.     Peri /oniu«,  another  putfi- 
:i»t  cf  !itcr.xtuTc,  entered  intf>  this  diopute  on  the  i 
mlijett  r,f  the  Jt--*  gwe  of  the  ancient*,  to  which  j 
Ki»tcr  h:id  ja<t  adv-encd  at  the  i  IfHe  of  \\\*>  vnlunie. 
Uhat  wa>  ihc  conjcquence  '    Dreadful '  — \niwcn 
jztd  rej'.indcra  from  h«jth.  in  which  they  bespat- 
tered tacti  other  with  the  fiuilext  4haM.'.    A  jour- 
cAJi-l  pleisantly   blames  thi^    acrimnniom   cnn- 
troicn*.     He  My%  "  To  reail  the  pirnphlet^  rf  a 
Pcnironius  and  *  Kii-<tcr  nn  the  .C^  y^-i\c  of  the 
iruiun:-.  who  would  not  renounce  all  commerce 
v»ith  anti.i>iir\  >     It  >eemH  as  if  .m  Au:iniemnrin 
ind  an  .\tniJlci  were  r.ulini:  at  each  other.    Who 
i*n   nrJriin    lr'«m    I  niijhter,    when  one   of  thev:  I 
<-"irim-:nt.«tnr»  eten  v»oint-»  hi*  attacks  at  the  vi-r)  ' 
n  init  rt  hi*  adverstrv  f     Accordinij  H>  Kii-ter,  the  | 
r.mic  «if  Pcn/€>nin»  M^nilies  a  ctrlani  part  ot  the  | 
^HiTiin  brwl\.     How  is  it  puvkible,  that  uith  xmh 
*  n.ime    he   coulil    be   ri^ht  concernini;  the  .E^ 
ilTi^e  '     But  fh»c^  tbal  of  Ku>tcr  pn>miMr  a  better 
'!iin^:.  Mote  it  Mjnilie-*  a  liCadle ;  a  man  who  drive' 
d«o«'i.t  of  churches  >— What  m.idne^o  i..thio.'" 

li.riu-r.le,  like  our  Drydcn,  felt  the  airimony  ot 
litcrjrv  imiation.  To  the  critical  stricture^  rd 
O'Ai.hignac  it  it  acknowledged  he  p.-iid  the 
greatest  attention,  for,  after  thi%  critic's  Pratique 


•i.rrur.  riii»  "mi  i^ii  m-,!  .«  ijcirrei  l-'-f.« '."en  tti'." 
P'ct  .iiiil  the  I  ritii  .  in  «huh  the  tortiirr  exhi.ed 
hi*  b:.e  111  Kiir.Til  .«bu»iie  epicnm'.  whi.  Ii  luvv, 
I'-rturiatcI)  Va  I.i^  ircdil,  in.-i  licen  pre'cried  in 
hi*  w«-rk«. 

The  IivtU  V.'lt.iire  cnuld  nrt  re«i*t'the  chirm  of 
ahuoini;  till  .idviTMrie*.  We  inj\  *mi.e  when  he 
»  tils  a  l>i>«khuid,  a  liUx  khe.id :  a  d'-tard.  a 
ditird;  but  uheii  hi-  ir;.H  ks,  tnr  i  dit!erenie  "t 
opinion,  the  f».  »j.i  ot  .iimtht-r  mm,  our  «en*ibi- 
iiiy  I'.  ..I.irm:d.  \  lu^hrr  inhnnil  thin  tint  i-i 
iTitii  i»m  i»  ti«  fli't  nle  '-u  the  a,-ii-»t  of  nuii. 

ThtTe  !■•  a  ctTt.iin  ih^iruiH-d  mi.ur.  wliuh  ^'-ni 
wri?iT»  hi\c  nui't  uiiliirl\   cm;.:' \cd  m  i  h  in. - 
tcri'mi;  a  i«  nli-iiip-r  ir\ .     n»;ns»»  •  i.ii-d  l*Ti'ir,  '.'v 
/'»/'i.      Ill    Hi^hf  p    Parker*   Hi't  r\    m    l-i.  iwn 
Time*,  .in  inii«i<  i  r.t  u-  i«Iit  ni  m  >'■  i-t  .it  •^•.^•.  m  ;  rlie 
cclcbr.ited    .Mir\i-!1   d'-iriSeil    j-.     m    I'liti.  i  f    '.I 
*Oi  i;t\  ;    an    i:it  ■im*-i;'»    Ilt.:-*;     11..I    oiu-    ulfsf 
t.il'.'iiN  wen.'  ei». li  III'  T'-  il>   ;  ■     '■;•■  \\:  .1:  l.i->  ptT-u-n. 
Tn  suili  l-riitfi'  i;i<i  tli'-  I.   '      i  --f   pi'tv,  uniieil 
with  per^•.lld  riiH'i.r.  •  ■■•.   t    i-.  bi-hi  p,  wif  was 
hiiii^eif  the  uor->i  i-l  \v,-  -«..r\>.:».     II*,-  w.i>,  i.'-.w- 
evtr.  .imply  rep  ml  In  ::.  •  k-    n  wit  i.i   Mirti^l  in 
"'Hie  kehe»r"»ii  irm-p-  •■  i."  whuh  in  n   'till  le 
reail    with    dfii-.jlit,  a->   j:i    i.Iiuir.ible   eMuM>  ii    ■<! 
banter,  wit,  and  ^ili'c.     I.c  ('•'.■n  ,  a  Kf\  p-  ndir- 
OUH  (;retk  ititii ,  i|i.  irrvl.'.-l  uith  B'llcni  aln.ut  i 
pavia>re  in  Loni^uui*,  .uid  *e\eral  vv.ir*  afiirw  mU, 
in  rtvi^iiii;  .Moreri's  I)i- ti'iury,  ^.ive  a  *!»' rt  vir- 
ni-fctic  notu'eot  the  jKiet'-  brother  ;  in  whuh  b*-  ■  a;i> 
him  the  elder  brutlier  ol  fmn  ivhn  hat  ti-utun  r'.i 
honk  entitUd  "  Sutiui  ff  Ml  Uuitfau  I)'f.}!-^i.tu\  '" 
-  the  w<irk««  *»\  the  modern  Horace,  wl.ii  h  were 
(hen   dclii'htini;    Kun-pe,  he   «  ilN.    with    «iiiip.e 
inipudenie,  a  book  cniitle«l  Sitire'. ' 

The  wi'-rk^  Id  H.oHRT  pr'idiired  a  i  ■•nir<.»f!«\, 
iKith  lnnj»  and  Mrident,  ani'im;'-t  tip*  w:t«  'A 
France.  Tin-  liter.iry  «|'nrrel  i*  "t  -•■nir  n"ti-  m 
the  annilii-i  literal ure,  -inie  it  In*  pn-duu'd  xwt 
valuable  bi-ik*:  I.a  .Motto'*  "  RH'txi' i.i  -i.r  li 
Critique."  and  Midante  l»atier"*  "  Do*  Ciu^e*  d*" 
la  Corruption  dii  (ioftt."  i )l  the  x\\  li  u'  rk* it  hi* 
been  aaid  th.it  1. 1  .Motte  wrote  with  icmiiniic  tklt- 
cacv,  and  .M  ul.ime  D.^iicr  like  an  rn!\er*i(y 
petfant.  "  At  length."  as  the  author  ot  ^iVi»ijVi* 
/Mit'rui*ii  iiilorni>u*,  "  by  the  etl'irtsnf  Valnu  "ur, 
the  trieiul  oi  art,  ol  arii>t*,  and  of  i>ea».c,  the  ci  iifesi 
w;m  terminated."  Hotb  pirtie^  were  iorniid.ibie 
in  number,  and  to  e  u  h  hv  in  ide  remon'trameK, 
and  applied  rypro.-uhc^.  I.i  .Motte  and  M.id.-iine 
Dacier,  the  opjKisite  le.ider*.  u«to  convnurd  by 
hi^  arcnmento,  nude  retippM.il  kiih  e>*i<<n*,  and 
I'omtnded  a  iH'.ii  e.  The  treat\  w  i*  l>.rni  dlv  nli- 
tird  at  »  diniirr,  i^iieii  I'li  iIh'  oi  i  n-'n  b\  a 
.M.idame  IK"  '*l.ii  1,  wbn  r«  prri<  lUitt  '"  N«  "iti  I'.iu  ."' 
f.ib.ition*  were  iHured  t'l  tin-  iiT'iii-.r;  ol  old 
Homer,  and  the  p.irti'.*  were  reiom  i,t.-ii. 


MTKRAKY   Bl.C'NlJKK--. 

Whe.n  Iianle  piiliii*hi-d  In*  •"  riilein'i,"  the 
simplicity  <d  the  a.^e  .n  i  epieil  it  a*  .i  true  narrative 
of  hi*  devrent  into  hell. 


LITF.RABT  BIOSDEBS. 


wbcn  tht  UlcqHi  ol  Ui  Thomu  Mot 

pubNthed,  it  ocuuodhI  i  pleiunl  miiU 
tnlilicil  romznce  reptneno  i  perfect,  h 


u>i  Gnngcr,  "  the  )cdraed 
hi^ir  rKt^dJCDl,  tlul  mii- 


But  tht  m»1  snguUr  blunder  «u  produced  by 
CunpbeU,  i  curiam  b<nln  on  the  hermetic  phi- 

Ibe  in  or  pmlongiDg  hie.  hy  inbiUpg  Ihe  bruth 
fli  foung  tfsflmen,  wu  eagerly  credited.     A  pb>-H- 

xiiDuily  ulople^  (hcpia^i.  Dr- lUppUackaDw- 
ledgH  tlul  ^rr  he  read  the  woil  In  hb  youth,  the 
reuODiiup  ind  the  f«ct9  left  him  tevcnJ  A*}-*  in  a 
kind  of  (jiiiy  lind.  1  hite  1  copy  with  nufluacnpt 
DO(e«  by  t  leunnl  ph>iiciin,  who  aeenu  to  hire 

iDtEDIitin  of  tbc  work  Tu  lonR  iloublful ;  till  Dr, 

Cimpbell  iafboneti  i  fneod  it  wu  «  mere  jeu- 

d'eiprii ;  thiE  Biylc  vu  conndned  b  vUDding 

without  *  rivjil  in  the  in  of  trejiUng  il  Urge  a 

difficult  tubjcct,wi1bout  difCovcring  10  which  nde  I  <.,.^iuu    lunu,   u  >   » 

bit  own  tentirMnta  leaned ;  idA  m,  Cjimpbell  hjd  |  moat  copinw  commcn 


kf  cmoir  on  ttie  Ptepflvation  «  Balk,  take*  M^^i. 
ind  wba,  be  u>-a,  11  »  eatreraely  nre,  that 


efoTc  Li(7  had  written  bit  history,  or  Ta 
Au  boneit  rhat,  who  comptlcil  1  church  hiHory, 


A  blunder  has  been  recorded  of  the  moa 
he  dark  agei,  which  was  likely  enough  to  happen 

iirlDg  the  church,  quoted  thii  authority  Iron 

•■as  allo»ed  10  be  gmd  law  by  a  judge,  hiiiuel 


^Hcntyjll.     Al 


Fj  dr  Id  Coniu  dt  Armn.  1  itruck'  when  phibp  11,  (cl  forth  his  inTincifrt  ^r 
in  the  battlet  he  dctcnbct,  '  nudd,  on   which    was  represenlnl   the    King    n 
,   r«.»...   -,™   ....Te  not  present  ^   and  this,    Spain,    the    Emperor,   the    Pope,    ElcctoTT,    Car 
ly  to    conler    honour    on    some    particular    dinab,  fltc,  with  their  vya  on-ered  with  a  lun 

nand  Fabiani,  who.  quoting  a  Frmcb  narra-        q  c»cas  hom'n    mm  1  fj  D«-t  1 


two  words,  placed  oe 


LtTERARr  BLUNDERS.                                        m  | 

of  »wi(»,  in  which  it  i.  laid  thjt  the  Duke  of 

of  hiiumti.wuignorintcrltfaiiane.    TheonLv 

Marlborough   >nti   an  odiccrj   no!  being  ac- 

proof  brought  forward  for  h»  tliarna  wu  th^ 

broke  on.  wheel  1 

Obbert  pliy  of  "Ltvi'l  Uul  Sh(ft"   wa)  en- 

An  inliqmry,  howeyei,  hindcreil  oat  more  fa- 
Ihem  thit  Otat  kitcn  wen  only  the  ctnuini  S 

Ulled    "U    Otmiirt    ClimiM    itl    f.<BMi,r."     A 
French  wiiler  of  Congrere'i  lite  has  taken  bii 

Ihcrudi;  udhcRidlbcituinahipthui; 

Sir  John  Piiugle'  menQon)  hi)  hating  cured  a 
Bitot  bv  the  Me  of  iwo  quart)  of  D-^  aoi  D<.<k 

iMttr  duly :  1  French  tnp)lalar  )pecinei  i<  » in 

IiucripiioiB,  dtltcB  •  liltnry  Wundtr  in  Span, 

eiceilenttroMmadeof  iduckandadogT    In  a 
teccnl  catalogue  compiled  bv  ■  French  writer  of 
#->rli   XI   Nmaral   uLltfy.  te  hll  inieiled   the 

who,  mttling  wilh  thii  inKriptmn. 

well-known '■  EBay  on  l-t,*  SB((."bytheEdge- 

Mulmc  VI  CoDudc, 

wotlh..    The  proof,  if  il  required  any,  that  a 

a  stnoge  uui'hroniHn.    Thty  ire  only  contiic. 
tknDornn/OKiIrt— VI. 
A>  ibnid  1  Uundci »» thu  of  Dr.  Stukcky  on 

prided  himwlf  on  giving  a  Terbal  iran)lalion  of 

'^a.TSo^J^X^  T"^  '  '"'""''  °" 

he  Kid  II                  "       n*  "g. 

which  be  renden  "  Ai«i  i^Uu.  •  m-c™  ."■ 

conmitled  bv  Ihe  AbM  Oregoire  >  who  aHbidi 

of  Cuiiuiiu,  nuka  *  new  pcnonue  >tin  up  in 

another  linking  proof  of  the  erran  to  which 
foreigner)  are  r.a&le  -hen  they  decide  no  the 

ifflMrw  of  the  ,<i^«  Of.nJi* .' 

lov.^  and  ™/™  of  aoolhi.  counlrj-.    The 

of  Filber  Simumd,  tbit°Sl!  Unuli  ind  her  el'ncn 

IhDuund  Virsin  were  4U  crutid  out  of  >  blun- 

graded, acquaint)  u)  that  a<  London  he  ohKrvnl 

der.    Inwrtrinciei.l-...herfbundJ..  yr«t.« 

^ruiiu  di   11   (mywii.'    Bug-dettroyer  to  hb 

S'SiJt-.siisS'ss.ar;: 

:«^ir..'sS:».-iSi-"S 

occurred  to  the  good  abbt  wa),  that  h.)  Olljolyl 

nim.  R»dc  mil  of  rw.  f^gint  the  whole  fiirera 

bug!    were    hunted    by    the   uid   deitroyer,  and 

T7«w.«rf? 

taken  by  hand— and  Ihui  human  nature  was  <lc- 

Pope,  in  J  note  on  Henuie  for  Meuuie,  Inform) 

gradedl 

US  Ihit  iti  nari'  wuitaken  from  Cinlhio'i  Novels, 
Si.8.K.^.S.    ■n^»,Dicai.S.ll^lS.    The 

treatiie   of    Philo-)ud)Cu)*  Unmi!  h>iJ!   liltr'ia. 

Erery  good  man  ii  a  free  man,  by  Tm  Inn  in 

ion.    11  wu  well  for  him,  obxrya  Jottin,  thai  he 

Ihc  word)  in  full  length  (htu,  DHirnUr  a,  »rum- 

which  might  hace  taken  thii  u  a  reflection  on  Ihe 

IkHinr.  jrlicle  Abui  dii  Moli,  i  Htertry  »oecdote 

of  a  linmUat  nilure )  i  complete  f uid  pn>  fin. 
when  the  FrigmenB  of  Petrooiu)  mide  i  greil 

l-adultire-mlo-Ooddf/indiadullery."    Cuth- 
lie,  in  hii  tranilation  of  Du  Halde,  ha)  "Ihe 

noi)e  In  the  Utenuy  woild,  Heibainju),  an  erudU 

twenty-)liih  dav  of  the  nrcu  moon."    The  whole 

Xnto'i^r^i;,™  i°i.'  ^bSSiii'tHe"^  J^- 

of  Lubeek,  Kad  in  I  letlet  from  »Bolher  Icimed 

Kholar  of  Bologna,  "We  have  here  oa  inlin 

■vihm  (nine)  for  nHruUi  or  nmt  (new). 

quire*  tor  the  libruiao  Capiioni.    He  »k)  him  if 

he  came  lo  the  word  «a™,  not  awaie  of  it) 

it  WI1  true  (hit  iher  had  u  Bologna  an  inliri  Fi- 

HgniSralion,  he  boldly  rendered  il  homi.  probably 

(fMiiw.    Ctpponi  Dniiei  him  Ibat  il  wu  *  Ihinj 

which   had  long  been  publie.    Can  1   ■«  thn 

retioniu)'    Hinlhe1iindne»tolet  me  eximine 

Infliarlei  11. 'i  teign  a  new  collect  wa)  dtawn, 
In  which  a  new  epiSict  wa)  added  to  Ihe  king-) 

II.    CeruinI)',   leplla  Cipponi-     He   lead)  out 

eradit  of  Lubeck  lo  the  ehuith  where  rep«et  ilu 

call)  for  fail  chaiie,  and  tike)  hil  fli^I. 

title,  thai  gave.  layi  Bumel,  great  ofhnce,  and 

occDiontdgrealfillery.    He  wai  Myled  o«r  i«i( 

A  LITESASr  WIFE. 


(he  i4CTediit«  t»f  tbc  king"*  prnoPi  fct  in  (he 
Sugtuk  U^uoie  it  bore  ■  lignkteitxin  thit  wu 
»  ny  inlLcible  to  Itae  kins.  And  be  mru 
■iked  bv  bis  UmiXai  counKn,  vbtt  muT  tbe 
uliDD  Viiuk  vhen  they  heinl  him  pnycd  for  » 


mike  (be  EnitUK  ten-Ucly  berd  to  the  LiUn  ind 
Ibelr  nwkiKul  hjinUi  put  on  it*  n«k,    Milton  tiu 

The  btimdert  of  modem  uitL<iiitfici  on  icpul- 

ItoH  a  1  kiueht'i  ted  ter  t  tuiUtr  nilt4  4tt; 
uHHfaR  couliTnol  diUlnipii^  criw'j  in  the  huib 
of  ugeli  (rom>lUiv-iirfi ;  Iv  aiirfj  •!  ■  lady'i 

uid  inDtheT  hu  nwtakep  «  Utfard  ind  ■  htdgilai 


T"Si»l"-ing  tl 


proluhlc  that  hit  birthpUec  produced  the  conce 

how  ■  CTiticjJ  coigecture  miy  be  led  aitnv  by  i' 


lore.    Wh«  di'liKhl.  far  io-lince,  muH  the  |nat 

Hi>  wife  IeR  blm  nothinR  TO  dHir.  The  Ire- 
riueni  rompaniDn  of  bU  itndic*.  *he  broui^bf  him 
the  brtokj  he  lequired  (o  liii  dnk ;  ihe  Eompired 
pisiew,  and  tTtD^crihed  quotitioni;   the  ume 

Ivo  lonunite  pcnoni.     Fir  from  *i1hdnivmg 

tbe  eduCAiLDD  of  eferen  chUdreO'  She  "nd  Bu- 
dKui  ihved  in  tbe  mutuAj  cjret  they  tim-ed  Ibcir 

eular  ffllidtr.    Tn  one  of  hii  Lettcn,  he  nrprexDti 

wbo  produced  booki.  He  tin,  ttial  \n  hli  ht^ 
tweJve  >eirs  MiUnc^y  b^'  been  Icia  fruitful 
'i  he  hid  produced  tex  luokt  liijn 


The  lady  of  Enrlya  dcilnied  hetielf  the  bnnti^ 

ume  pwion  in  her  oirn  bFeHt  which  ADtioAtnl 
her  bnahjnd'Bi  m'ho  hu  viittt^n  with  luch  ruioni 

dfHerent  purwili.  Tbey  were  muiilly  emiilo)-ed  in 
miiniBt  hii  Litrnr^  occnpalioiu;  lliet- tnnKribed 
Dunuicripti,  coniulted  inthun,  nlbeied  plinti, 
ind  deiigned  and  cotsDred  under  tiu  «i.  Whit 
I  delightful  ftmUv  pktuK  hn  the  )ounfp  PJinv 
giren  ponerily  in  hi>  tetten  I— See  Melmoth'i 
iTUHlatioB,  Book  _ir.  Letter  111.    of  Cilphumia, 

■he  Ilka  1  plEuure'  in  leidinA  ■nd  even  getlniE 
bv  hem,  we  ctsiiiniull)'  in  ho  biodi,    Hon  full 


Jl  LTTEBABY  wife.                                           iij  1 

lyre,  with  no  other  masicr  fut  love,  the  be«  in- 
■tructor.  tor  her  guide.    Her  paiHon  will  increaae 
with   our  davt,  for  it  t>  not   my  youth  nor  my 

Station  and  my  |S?.  of*  which  the  it  ena^ 

"on" the  tubiect  of  a  literary  wife,  I  matt  intio- 

duthea  o(  HewctUe.    She  i.  known  at  lean  by 

Her  laboun  have  been  ridieulMl  by  lome  wiia  j 
but  had  her  itudiei  been  teguUted,  ihe  would 
have   dijplai-ed   no  ordinary   genius.      The   Con- 
ii»i«iir  ha*  quoted  her  poenu,  and  her  venei 

The  duke,  her  bstband,  watalto  an  author ;  bit 

He  ha*  likewite  written  comedies,  of  which  Lang- 
btlne.  In  hit  account  of  our  poet*,  ipeaki  well ; 

in  Iheit  eulogium*.     Ka  true  he  wu  a  duke. 

and  the  mmt'accurate  judge  of  humour  that  eve? 
he  knew."    The  life  of  the  duke  i*  wnticn  (re 
employ  the  language  of  Ltngbaine)  "  by  the  hand 

it  a  folio  of  loj  ptgci,  and  It  entitled  "The  Lili 
of  the  Tlince  Noble,  High,  and  FuittanI  Prince, 

Bicelltnt  PnnccH,  Margaret  Duchcn  of  NewcaiUc, 
hiiWitc.    London,  1M7."    Thii  Life  it  dedicated 
to  Charlei  the  Second  ;  and  there  i*  Il»  pielited  a 
copiout  epiJtle  to  her  hmband  the  duke. 

in  thit  epiitk  the  character  of  our   Literary 
Wife  i>  detcTibed  with  ill  itt  peculiarilioi  and  no 
apology  will  be  required   for  extracting  what 

be  amuied  while  he  form)  a  more  correct  i<lea  o( 
a  literarv  huly  with  wboiE  name  he  muil  be  ac- 

»he   wrttei:— -Certainly,  my  lord.  >on   hi« 

any  one  particular  penon  had  1  nor  do  I  to  rau.h 
wonder  at  it,  lince  1.  a  woman,  cannnt  be  eicmpt 
from  Ibe  malice  and  aipenioniof  tpileful  tonKUo. 
which  they  can  upon  my  poor  writings  wme 
denving  d4  to  be  tGe^crue  autho«>.  of  them ;  for 

age  were  accounted  not  to  be  wtitten  by  a  woman, 
but  that  louKbody  elie  had  writ  and  publiitae  1 
them  in  my  name ;  by  which  vnur  lordihip  wai 

ujion  yout  honour,  that  what  wat  written  and 

alto  made  known  that  your  Innbhip  wa*  my  only 
tutor,  Ln  declaring  in  >ne  what  >-on  iud  found  and 

young  whe^  ^ur  lordahip  married  me  could  not 
hive  much   knowledge  of  the   w»''d  1   but  it 

endue   me   with   a   poetical   and    pbUotopbical 

genint,  cen  fimn  my  birth  i  for  I  did  write  tome 
booki  in  that  kind  telote  1  wi>  twelve  yean  of 

would  never  divulge.     But  though  Ihe  world 
would  n«  believe  that  Ihote  conception*  and 

icended  my  capacity,  yet  they- '  found' fault,  that 
they  were  detective  for  want  of  leamiDg,  and  on 
the  other  tide,  they  aaid  1  had  pluckt  feathen  out 

iudtfment.     Ttulf,  my  lord,  1  con^  that  for 
want  of  tcholarthip,  1  could  not  eipreu  mnelf 

philoiophical  writingi  I  publiihed  first ,  but  aller 
1  was  retnmcd  with  V'  l°n)i>)>ip  into  mv  native 
(Dunity,  and  led  a  retired  country  life,  f  applied 

them  in  those 'authort,  at  which   my  reader!  did 
wonder,  and  thought  it  impoiKhle  thai  a  woman 

1  and  my  book*  are  like  the  old  apologue  men- 
tioned in  Stop,  of  a  father  and  hit  ton  who  rid 

fable,  which  the  apphea  to  henelf  in  tbe»e  wordt 
-■■The  old  man  teeing  he  could  not  please  man- 

the  new  bridge,    But  I  am  not  .0  panionale  10  bum 
my  writing  for  tbc  varioui  humour*  of  mankind, 

"''iS  'JSH'^"f<  'Si'  ™S^VS!^  ,^T™m- 

blamelea.    At  fur  my  being  Ihe  true  and  only 
authoretiDfthem.yDurlDi^ipknowtbetl;  and 
my  attending  tervantt  are  witneti  Hiat  1  have  had 

down  I  lend  them  to  thoH:  that  are  to  tranictibe 
them,  and  lil  Ihem  for  Ibe  nres ;  whereof,  lince 

a*  only  could  write  a  good  band,   but   neither 

hath  been  a  great  ^ladvanUge  10  my  poor  works. 
and  Ihe  caue   that   they   have   been   printed  to 
falie  and  to  fuU  of  erron ;  for  betide*  that  1  want 
aho  tkiU  in  schManhii.  >nd  true  writing,  I  did 
many  timet  not  penuc  Ihe  eo(»e*  that  were  tran- 

concepiiom  1  by  which  neglect,  as  I  said,  many 
erron  are  *lipt  into  my  work*,  which  yel  1  hope 

have  been  a  rtudent  even  Itom  chiMhood  j  and  since 
1  have  been  your  lofdnhipt  wife  I  hare  lived  for 
the  most  part  a  ttrtct  and  retired  lile,  a*  li  best 

luirn  cannot  know  much  of  me,  tince  they  have 
mitrlnd  lo  your  lordrtiip,  and  tometime*  thow 

A  LITERABT  WIFE. 


ssi  ir.s 


HTp  but  Am  nlhcT  proud  o(  fber 
- — rdipg  to  the  oM  prorerb.  It 
Uy  out  of  tpite  ind  malice,  ^. 

■hipl  Inytl.  Dobk,  ind  heroic  iclii 
mnJ  fighting,  mint  of  (DOIcmpljtini 

ut  the  grut  God,  ihu  hithona  bb 


c  lul  portion  of  thil  lift,  vhich  consBC  i 
itoserratiom  Aod  good  thing)  which  ihe  ht 
nthcKd  from  the  CODTcnatiDra  of  her  husband 

Lord  Or^>rd,  in  hit"  Catalogue  of  Noble  Authors, 
tm,  thai "  Dib  ttaulf  poetic  couple  wu  a  piclui 
of  iDoUih  BobiUt)',"  be  H-nta,  ai  he  doet  to 

■ttnid  to  Ibe  rerene  of  our  rnedil. 

Many  chagrins  may  corrode  the  nuptial  ilate  • 
lilenry  men.  Females  nho,  prompted  by  unif 
but  not,  by  tHtc.  unite  Ihcnuelvcs  to  scholaj 
muit  et-VT  complala  of  neglect.  Theineahaustib 
-pationt  of  a  librvy  «itlon]y  present  to  such 


>mpovn^  hir  "  Leot 


——--  ^is  eouj]  in  erudition  and  his  superior  in 

.  »eT4e  from  Sophocle*  a*  an  apolop-  for 
lingiicsA  to  place  herself  among  hi*  kamcd 


oo^nl" 


Ibe  considered  aa  rather  tc 
too  spirited  in  action  i  bur 


ijgo  the  B»hop 


man  h.th  her:  a 

dsoeieree 

of  1  shreve."    11  It  wonderful  this  good  bishop 

Ihing;  the  name  of  his  lordship,  S^jrunttirj. 
would  hare  aJToided  a  CODwlalcm-  fbn  .' 


Ilie  vife  of  Barclay,  author  of  "The  Argcnis,*' 
appeared  glaiin^y  after  his  death:  tor  Cardinal 


'  the  ashev  ofso  gteal  a  ^-nlut 
ould  never  be  placed  beajde  ta 


a  lermaganr  i  and  Christina 


The  wife  . 


n  the  phLkH^]!  of  Daeiita, 


.1 


scat  herself  on  thne  days  at  the  door,  and  refused 
Mtmittancc  to  every  one  slubbily  dresKd,  or  who 
dkl  not  disco^'er  a  genteel  air.  So  convinced  wan 
she  that,  to  be  worthy  of  hearing  the  lectures  of 
her  husband,  it  was  proper  to  appear  fasliionable. 
la  t-ain  onr  f^cxKl  lecturer  exhausted  him^lf  in 
telling  her  that  fortune  does  not  always  give  fine 
cloches  to  philosophers. 

The  Ladies  of  Albert  Durer  and  Berg^m  were 
both  shrews.  The  wife  of  Durer  compdled  that 
ereat  genius  to  the  hourly  drudgery  of  his  pro- 
fession, merolv  to  gratify  her  own  sordid  passion  : 
in  deKiiair,  Albert  ran  away  from  his  Tlsiphone ; 
she  wheedled  him  back,  and  not  long  afterwards 
this  great  artist  fell  a  victim  to  her  furious  dispo- 
sition. Bcr^xem'i  wife  would  nerer  allow  that 
excellent  artist  to  quit  his  occupations ;  and  ^e 
contrived  an  odd  expedient  to  detect  his  indolence. 
The  artist  worked  in  a  room  above  her ;  ever  and 
aoon  she  roused  him  by  thumping  a  long  stick 
against  the  ceiling,  while  the  obedient  Berg^iem 
answered  by  stamping  his  foot,  to  satisfy  Mrs. 
Berghem  that  he  was  not  napping  I 

JBlian  had  an  aversion  to  the  marriage  state. 
Sigonius,  a  learned  and  well>known  scholar,  would 
never  marry,  and  alleged  no  inele^nt  reason — that 
*'  Minerva  and  Venus  could  not  hve  together." 

Matrimony  has  been  considered  by  some  writers 
as  a  condition  not  so  well  suited  to  the  circum- 
stances of  philosophers  and  men  of  learning. 
There  is  a  little  tract  which  professes  to  investigate 
the  subject.  It  has  for  title,  D*  Matrimonio  Lite- 
ran,  an  cjettbtm  nu,  an  verb  nubere  cenveniat^  i.e. 
of  the  Marriage  of  a  Man  of  Letters,  with  an  inquiry 
whether  it  b  most  proper  for  him  to  continue  a 
bachelor,  or  to  marry. 

"  The  author  alk^ges  the  great  merit  of  some 
women ;  particularly  that  of  Gonzaga  the  consort 
of  .Montefielcro,  dnlce  of  Urbino ;  a  lady  of  such 
di^ngoisfaed  accomplishments,  that  Peter  Bembus 
said,  none  but  a  stupid  man  would  not  prefer  one 
of  her  conrersations  to  all  the  fonnal  meetings  and 
disputations  of  the  phikMophers. 

'*  The  tadies  peniaps  will  be  surprised  to  find 
that  it  b  a  question  among  the  Learned,  tykithtr 
they  tight  f  marry  f  and  will  think  It  an  un- 
acconntable  property  of  learning  that  it  ^ould 
lay  the  professors  of  it  under  an  obti^tion  to 
dnregard  the  sex.  But  whatever  opinion  these 
gentlemen  may  have  of  that  amiable  part  of  the 
species,  it  b  very  questionable  whether,  in  return 
for  thu  want  of  complaisance  in  them,  the  gene- 
ralit>-  of  ladies  would  not  prefer  Che  beau  and  the 
man  of  fashion  to  the  man  of  sense  and  learning. 
However,  if  the  latter  be  considered  as  valuable  m 
the  e>'es  of  any  of  them,  let  there  be  Gonzagas, 
and  I  dare  pronounce  that  this  question  will  be 
soon  determined  in  their  fawur^  and  they  will 
find  converts  enough  to  their  charms." 

The  sentiments  of  Sir  Thomas  Browne,  oa  the 
contequeDces  of  marriage,  are  very  curious,  in 
the  second  part  of  his  Rcligio  Medici,  Sect.  9. 
When  be  wrote  that  work,  he  said,  '*  I  was  never 
yet  ooce,  and  commend  their  resolutions,  who 
nerer  marry  twice." — He  caUs  woman  "  the  rib 
and  crookea  (riece  of  man."  He  adds,  *'  I  could 
be  content  that  we  might  procreate  like  trees, 
without  conjunction,  or  that  there  were  any  way 
to  procreate  the  world  without  thb  trivial  'and 


vul^r  way."  He  means  the  union  of  sexes, 
which  he  declares  '*  is  the  foolishest  act  a  wise 
man  commits  in  all  his  life,  nor  w  there  anything 
that  will  more  deject  hiscooled  imagination,' when 
he  shall  consider  what  an  odd  and  unworthy  piece 
of  folly  he  hath  committed."  He  afterwards  de- 
clares he  b  not  averse  to  that  sweet  sex,  but  tutu- 
rallv  amorous  of  all  that  is  beautiful ;  *'  I  could 
looK  a  whole  da^  with  delight  upon  a  handsome 
picture,  though  it  be  but  01  a  hone."  He  after- 
wards disserts  very  profoundly  on  the  muMC  there 
b  in  beauty,  *'  and  the  silent  note  which  Cupid 
strikes  b  far  sweeter  than  the  sound  of  an  int^ru- 
ment."  Such  were  hb  sentiments  when  vouthful, 
and  residing  at  Leyden  :  Dutch  philosophy  had  at 
first  chilled  his  passion  ;  it  b  probable  that  passion 
afterwards  inflamed  hb  philosophy — for  he  married, 
and  had  four  daughters  I 

Dr.  Cocchi,  a  modern  Italian  writer,  but  appa- 
rently a  cynic  as  old  as  Diogenes,  has  taken  the 
pains  of  composing  a  treatise  on  the  present  subject 
—enough  to  terrify  the  boldest  Bachelor  of  Arts  1 
He  has  conjured  up  every  chimera  against  the 
marriage  of  a  literary  man.  He  seems,  howe>-er, 
to  have  drawn  his  disgusting  portrait  from  his  own 
country ;  and  the  chaste  beauty  of  Britain  only 
looks  the  more  lovely  beside  this  Florentine 
wife. 

I  shall  not  retain  the  cynicism  which  has  co- 
loured such  revolting  features.  When  at  length 
the  doctor  finds  a  woman  as  all  women  ought  to 
be,  he  opens  a  new  spring  of  misfortunes  which 
must  attend  her  husband.  He  dreads  one  of  the 
probable  consequences  of  matrimony, — progeny, 
in  which  we  must  maintain  the  children  we  fc^get  I 
He  thinks  the  father  gains  nothing  in  his  old  age 
from  the  tender  offices  administered  by  his  own 
children :  he  asserts  these  are  much  better  per- 
formed by  meniab  and  strangers  I  The  more 
children  he  has,  the  less  he  can  afford  to  have 
servants  I  The  maintenance  of  his  children  will 
greatly  dimini^  his  property  I  Another  alarming 
object  in  marriage  b  that,  by  affinity,  you  become 
connected  with  the  relations  of  the  wife.  The 
envious  and  ill-bred  insinuations  of  the  mother, 
the  family  ouarreb,  their  poverty  or  their  pride, 
all  dbturb  the  unhappy  sage  who  falls  into  the 
trap  of  connubial  felicity  I  But  if  a  sage  has  re- 
solved to  marry,  he  impre^cs  on  him  the  pruden- 
tial principle  of  increasing  his  fortune  by  it,  and  to 
remember  hb  "  additional  expenses  *"  Dr.  Cocchi 
seems  to  have  thought  that  a  human  being  b  only 
to  live  for  himself  ;ne  had  neither  a  heart  to  feel, 
a  head  to  conceive,  nor  a  pen  that  could  have 
written  one  harmonious  period,  or  one  beautiful 
image  I  Bayle,  in  his  article  Raphelengiut,  note  B, 
gives  a  singular  specimen  of  logical  subtlety,  in 
"  a  reflection  on  the  conse(^uence  of  marriage." 
This  learned  man  was  imagined  to  have  died  of 
grief  for  having  lost  his  wife,  and  passed  three 
years  in  protracted  despair.  What  therefore  must 
we  think  of  an  unhappy  marriage,  since  a  happy 
one  is  exposed  to  such  evib  ?  He  then  shows  that 
an  unhappy  marriage  is  attended  by  beneficial 
consequences  to  the  survivor.  In  this  dilemma, 
in  the  one  case,  the  husband  lives  afraid  hb  wife 
will  die,  in  the  other  that  she  will  not!  If  you 
love  her,  you  will  always  be  afraid  of  losing  her ; 
if  you  do  not  love  her,  you  will  ahva>-s  be  afraid 


DEDICATIOSS. 


d.itf,;^ 


ly  /...Jw.,  A.O.  16«," 


cpdUc;  uid  dnJicAleit   thf   whok  foUcriion   id 
wled  ol  fany-liTc  pagci,  wu  dnJicweil  to  Mbovc 

bis  impnntd  on  Ihe  idci  of  Doni  j  loi  lo  tbe  36s 
diji  of  tbt  Fur  of  this  Muijioloic  he  bx  ptctiud 
cpDtLe  dcdicjKrf^-.     "        '"^ — ""  "' 

.~,  MwonbvolbciDj 

ur  ol  the  Anblin  Nighn,  pr 


abligitwn.    TVrt  »m  Likcwae  (n  lulian  phi«- 


;-£,j,SS:; 


for  pobLishinft  boolu  b 


poKd  Ihe  lUpetUlire  dcdKUioD  10  hinweJE.  u 
completed  (hu  miicn'  ol  the  ^^iRDI  authfTT  by  lu 


l^i.,>^.,,t.^M, 

,■,,  ™.- 

'ben 

jourI«Idon,Si 

focihi 

Avoid 

J— <«:h»t*OuW>-00 
M«<.™j„.l/.)™».l 

„"^,&dr'S;<:';'',l 

nonn. 

Mice,  the  comm 

onpT»ct 

two  Dedtciiioiv.  whinh  be  exfiuei  bv  rhe  eiumpte  grscelnl  cottom,  or  mber  in  obedience  to  fhc 
of  Anlonio  Petrz;  f<t  in  thoe  dedicaliou  br  e4tabii.-iKd  ti-nnn y  of  pamni^,  ha*  prefixed  To 
Kalleis  a  hcApoEconooi  tbrfl^.  toi"  he  wa*  *  very  tbc  tun  Qiiecn  lirtcen  of  lhe«  MduUtorr  picto, 
univen^  t^etiiu^.  PncK,  onre  «ecTelaT>- d1  uale  In  which  in  every  Tewct  arr  The  n>e«ne4  of  bii 
KiJip  n.  of  Spam,  dedtC'lei  hn  "  Obra*,"  hT^  lo  compoUTiouu  At  thb  period  all  men.  ai  well  as 
"NuestraanclHanno  Padre,"  and  "A!  Sacra  Col-  wnreT\,  Jnflked  up  To  (he  pecr^  as  on  heiDffi  on 
le^,"  then  hallovt  ooc  To  "  HenrvIV.."  and  then  wbcne  tmiki  or  howcu  all  lubtnnary  good  and 
oneftill  more  embiacing,  ■■  A  To^-"^FulJcT, in  etil  depended.  At  a  much  later  period.  Elkanab 
hia  "Church  HWOry,"  bat  wiTh  admirable  con- |  9et1ir  lent  coptei  TOund  To  tbe  chief  party,  fof  he 
tnrance  mtrodufed  twelvt  TiIle-paKei;  bevde*  tbe ;  wrote  for  hoch  partiei.  aecompanicd  by  •ddrevei 

and  doles  than  bfn  o(  nny  of  Ibow  bj  itucni)':  litleily  oneiUndard  EUgy.inii  one  E^iitaLtmiirK, 
lioiB  *bicb  aiE  addroied  to  his  beodactoni  a'  prinwd  off  with  blanks  which  by  in^niomly 


PHILOSOPHICAL  DERCRfPTlVE  POEMS. 


Opc  of  the  nudt  ^iiwuiju  uiccdota  respecting 
«DiCATioH«  in  bnglinh  bibliDgnphy  «  rhjtt  of  (he 
ityglot  Bible  of  Dr.  CiHell.    CrammD,  much  a> 


cannUed  the  two  tut  Inva,  And  lupplinl  their 
plKef  with  thitti  othcrm^  whirh  vftenea  down  the 
npiiblicu  rtnini,  and  hlrHtcd  OUvei-i  nime  nut 

now  cjOled  the  rtpublKan  mi]  the  toyal  cofiio  bare 
amuwd  the  cunenu  coLkcTon;  uid  (he  fonnei 


nod  Degi^,  »ho  dedicated  "The  Pinnn'i dnin- 

lor"  n  Woods,  Biihop  n(  Lichfield,  with  thii 

enlion.  Deggi  highly  complimentea  the  BhhoB 

on  hiving  moil  nobly  fwlored  the  chuteh,  which 

h»]  been  demsllihed  In  the  citil  wum  and  wai 

"    but  lert  untinlihcd  by  Biihop  Hai.ke(-    At 


■how  Ihenuclret  auler  ttie  towfljiif  inlluence  ■ 
Ihe  BRU  tanaUc  repuhlican. 

II II  a  rurioui  lltEnrj'  fnlh-,  oM  of  an  indltldn 

Cjulle  wen;  reduced  into'  a  code  under  the  reli 
of  Alfnn<o  X..  lumamed  the  Wiie,  divided  if 
work  iniD  mvii  intutnrii  Ihal  Ibey  mlgbl  t 

crammed  with  Ihe  noft  pap  of  Dfttitnlitni  u  Ca 
ilinal  RlchclicD.  Preach  Aallery  ereii  eiceedt 
iueir.— Among  Ihe  ivt  wimbci  of  reiy  extnon! 
nary  dedtcMioBi  to  Ihii  nua,  in  which  Ibe  diilnity 


whitb  made  the   piophen  thuidei  when  C 

they  dared  not  id  approach  in  Ihe  buroing  hni 
and  in  the  nolK  ol  thundeiv,  appeared  to  the— 
■ometinui  in  the  InahtiBB  of  Ihe  f  ephvn.  u  the 
•aftiKD  of  t-Dur  augoK  tounlenince  dliHpalei  at 
Ihe  nine  lime,  amTebaBgei  inu  dew,  the  unalL 


rdicator^  afler  Ihe  dealt 


I.  DESCRIPnVB  PI 

[Tute  Ibrough  Ihe  trodden  grovel  < 
rbe  poet,  to  a  prodigalitj-  of  1ka< 


D  flniid  for  lyncai  compoiltlon,  will  weary  by  iu 

ction  to  a  bighrt  pnfcclit-      "  -  —'--■-  ' — ' 
imcd  with  rmatfinalion. 


cd  with  rmatfinal 
onawakencTby 


^^■.tr-!"?^! 


hu  admniblT  ob«rted  on  Dryden't  < 
ileditjlinni,  dul  Ihey  were  Ihe  vIch  i 
more  iban  of  the  mio;   Ibey  were  I 


with  Ib^pAnclple ;  in  tiulh,  what  he  deUneata 
aa  pocRy  ilKlf,  h  but  one  of  in  nravinco.  De- 
poem  which  i>  pcrpetuUjr  fincy,  and  never  pai- 
and  hii  deirripKve  ingenuity  comei  »  length  to 

cannot  lupply  u>  with  one  touch  of  nature. 

Deicriptive    poeby  ibonld   be   lelieved   by  a 
iklllul  Inteimiitnre  of  pauaga  •Missed  to  the 

leeiption  HtiaKi  i  and  haTEeen  conaideiid  ai  one 
of  Ihe  inferior  branchet  of  poeti)'.  Of  this  both 
Thomion  and  Grtdamilh  were  icnsible.    In  Ihrir 

animating  Ibe  idclurn  of  FiHcv  with  the  glow  of 

whatevei  may  be  thought  of  the  DTi^nalily  nf 
Diiwin'i  poem,  it  haa  been  preceded  by  olhcn  if 


PAMPHLETS. 


mlu|a  it  u  HDmct.  In  bn  lutHe  of  Ibe  fngi 
tn*  Mia,  and  Virgil  in  Ihe  porm  on  *  GiUil,  U- 
Dibuled  fo  bim,  wbo  bive  ^rcn  birth  to  fhrae 
Iu»r7  pfwiru.  The  Jsuib,  p&rticuLjiTly  wbcQ  the>' 
»inp(4til  in  Lfttin  Tcnc,  wrrt  iMrtuI  to  fucb  wb- 
jecu.  Tbc™  is  I  littlr  poem  on  C«/J,  by  P,  Le 
Fcne.  diitin^iihed  for  iii  clegmcc ;  ind  Brumoy 


litl^'ted  "iUi  ih»  Diieo  pipe,  nng  of  Shrrf ;  o 


ndfivxilyof  ikfcnptian;  P.  Hevei  W  dwcitet 
m  ^funr^  TariUon,  Tike  our  KtiLTingflcd,  on  the. 


SjfMii.  Li  Bnin  wiM.  .  ilclKtlble  poem  on 
SvMlm,.<i:    loolbn;  ontcT  on  Uaurai  u-^t„.. 

^HtwriKj  ind  hd  TAfjf  p^  BuchinAn  ii  ingcoiDut 
with  hii  Splurr.  HiUpnlbu  Bpirrd  to  CAlcb  the 
H'mdi ;  the  pbiloiophic  Huet  unuml  biimelf  with 

«uLUn-i  CMprttia,  or  Art  oTgrning  handKm^ 
ChUdnm.  b»  b«n  tr.i«lited  by  Kowf  ;  ud  Dn 

Thiilifl  might  be  augmented  *ith  t  fir*  nf  our 
C«D   poctl,  iihI  IbCK   slill    rriruin   wme   Tirein 


PAMPtfLBTS. 

Ileal  HHlorvof  Pampblctl,"  *tioTd4  »mei:unoiii 
informition';  jrhl  utbia  a  x  fampJilrl-na^tii  1^, 

bi9   prefuc.      He   there  obnerves:    **From    Pam- 

■in,  »que(9*ith  tbeir  charms.  Pamphirla  are 
to  gentlemeix's  pcxketi;  tbeycany  icpuEitioll  of 
ptniou ;    the  poor   find    their   account  in   ttali- 

cofterncd  -ith  -lut  n  pubLiihed  in  pamphlet), 

adorn  Ibc  gaietvof  ibop^ring.  **'"''^^T^'^ 
dirimwith  theirShiiibc4eIh.    Pamphleti become 


wi^i^liS^  ''m'*tSlt^i"h 


:d  u  eMtT»OTdiNry  eflect 


Popiib  umpblets,  or  Ftiber  fift^^j,  i.e.  little  books, 

anecdote  re^>ectrne  the  forgena  of  Ibe  monkL 
Archbiihop  Usher  detected  in  a  muiwrript  of  si. 


imortml  ftjpe  J 


PAMPBLETS.                                                  119  1 

lor  It  «enB  ih.  Konun  politlci  are  .Uvided  ai  well 

and  of  no  great  price,  U  adapted  to  eren-ooe^ 

unlhcc'Ty,  ai  he  qnailfin  blmieir,  bai  publlihed  a 

placed  allJtltchcd  hook,  on  jeriou.  .uhjecit,  the 
beU  of  which  fimilive  pieces  have  been  gi;ncTa1K 

Ihi  Lul,-  which  he  enliltn  •  A  t,j  H  Ut  LKk,' 

ajjol  cattlcd  on  by  Mr.  Pope  in  that  poem  against 
Ibe  lut  and  thii  pioenl  mlniKTy  and  govem- 

atid,  on  the  conlcaty,  bulky  volumes  have  heen 

reduced,  tor  the  convenience  of  the  public,  into 

the  familiar  thape.  of  Hitched  pamphlcla.    Both 

iheie  melhodi.  have  been  thu.  eeniuied  by  (be 

be  questioned,  but  of  lU  modem  pamphleti  what 
01   whensoever,  Ihe   C>iglli«  aUiLj   Srmuiii  be 

majority  of  the  lower  house  of  coovocalion  ijii. 

the  max  eiUfying,  uielul,  and  immictiie.  yet  they 

could  not  ewape  the  CTlllcal  Mr.  Bayle-iurcaim. 

written  long  ago  on  Ihe  tide  of  intidclily.    They 
have  TeprinleiT  together  in  the  mosl  contracted 

daily    from    Iht    ptesa.     Onr    eya    only    behold 

I^^h'that'the'mlniwen  being  Xwe^ro  nuMbelr 
leintDna  In  the  pulpll,  >ii>  all  Ikrj  null  uiil*,  and 
Uke  i»  other  trouble  than  Co  read  them,  and 
thui  pan  lot  Tccy  able  Kholan  a(  a  Tery  cheap 

to'lhcir  being  purchued'  i^n  dwaplyl'and  dU- 

Pamphlet  may  be  that  of  the  learned  Dr.  Skinner. 

derived  Irom  die  Belgic  word  fmpirr,  tiEnifying 
a  UlUe  paper,  or  libel.     To  thit  thlnf  irt  <3 

He  now  bi^ni  more  direcUy  the  hWory  of 

Pamphleta  may  be  reduced  aU  sorts  of  prinWd 

■ingle  sheets,  or  half  sheeti,  01  any  other  quan- 

the  word'  Pimthln  mar  >PI>«r,  "  »  *  genuine 
English  word,  rarely  known  or  adopted  la  any 

^7  "  m'il^erS^Er^i^  Bd"t^<^'°K 

other  language :  i»  pedlgmcannot  well  be  traced 

The  ftml*  radical  ngidtkilion  of  tbe  word 

nign.    In  ID  lint  uate  wretched  mux  bai-e  been 

viz.,  at  it  Impont  any  little  book,  or  tmall  volume 
whalever.  whether  stitched  or  bound,  whether 

■It  appearance.  »nce  the  great  llnguiit  John  Mln- 
■taew,  in  hi>  ■  Onlii  bi»  ■finrmi;  printed  in  I«IT. 
givH  it  the  mnt  miaenble  Aatina  of  which  any 
Rl«l  can  he  cap^le.    Mr.  MIddiew  Hy.  (uid  h& 

aood  or  bad,  whether  teriout  or  ludicrous.    The 

^^propet  lalin  term  (b,  a  Pamphlcl  It  liMIu.. 

or  little  book.     ThU  word  Indeed  tianifie.  in 
Eogliih  an  at>»v>  paper  or  little  bo(%.  and  <• 

wonfa  were  quoted  by  Lord  Chief  JuMlce  HoM). 

eenerallv  taken  in  Che  won!  sense. 

After 'all  this  display  of  cnrio»  literature,  the 

and.***-,  fJ(rt,towil..Hp4»ca.    AccomJuglo 

reader  may  smile  al  the  guesset  of  Elymolot^ ; 

■be  vnlga.  »ying.  all  thing)  «e  fuU  of  (boll,  or 

foollih^noi  for  tuch  mnltlludo  of  pamphlet.. 
nnwoKby  oT  Ihe  vert  name  of  hbeb,  being  mole 
vile  dian  comnHm  ihoret  and  the  tilth  of  bcggan, 

lion  of  Pm^W/'f  it  drawn  from  flulte   another 

meaning  to  any  of  Ihe  preienl.  by  Johnson,  which 
I  ihall  ^ve  Ibrliii  immediale  grililicalion. 

PAurHL.T[^.rMjElrt,Pr.    Whence  this  word 

•cilh  the  foamt  of  drnnktrd..  are  lo«ed  far  and 

is  wriOen  anciently,  and  by  Caalon.  M»7/I«].  . 

imaU  book  1  properly  a  book  told  unbound,  and 

neither  will  Ihe  thtm  oraclct  of  Apollo  be  eiteemed 

onlvtlitched.' 
The  French  have  borrowed  Ihe  word  Fmiplilti 

Thote  who  will  have  the  word  n.  be  derived 

from  ui.  and  have  the  goodneta  of  not  dlMinuring 

fnun  pAU,  the  famooi  knave  of  Loo.  do  noc  diffet 

much  fram  Hlnhew;  for  the  derivation  oT  the 

word  pam  ii  la  all  probabUily  from  irar,  >U ,  or 
the  wM(  or  the  e*((?or  Ihe  game. 

1  am  favonred  by  Mr.  nnkciton  vilh  the  follow- 

of  the  Nine  Worthie.  of  the  Worhl,  of  the  Soei) 

that  Ihe  w'ord  H  far  more  ancient  than  I?  com- 

line and  Or»n.  ftc,  ai  al»  moat  of  apaciTphal 
lucubrationi.    Tlwgieilett  coHecljonof  thiilini 

monly  believed  uke  the  billowing  prool  from  Ihe 
c^hfated    nitilfbm.    »enbed^to   Richard   de 

s-jyts/dSSrvfar's.tt'K 

(Olio,  and  the  Popiih  legend!  of  the  Lina  of  the 

KVaK-^r  """"■" '■'■'"• 

ailnu,  which,  though  not  Hniibed,  form  fifty  (olio 

volume^  aU  which  tract,  were  originally  in  pam- 

phlelformt. 

dicetquc  nin.  dilnimui  quam  florenot:  ac  raM- 

The  .(«Brf  idea  of  the  nriin  of  the  word  Pmi- 

fi.iTO(  exiinKH  phaleratii  prctulimut  palescedis." 

/:d.l>s.  that  Itlakea  IH  dcrivaliacB  Froni  ».  iiU. 
IB.1  iMm.  1  Irvf.  lignitjing  a  thint;  belotcd  by 

"  Bui.  Indeed,  we  prefer  books  to  pound)  :  and 

we  loie  manuscript,  better  ihan  Doiinii  and  we 

^i,  for  a  pamphlet  being  of  a  imall  porlahk  hulk. 

prefer  small  pam*/!/.;!  lo  wti-horse.." 

LITTLE  ItOOJrs.~A  CATHOLICS  REFVTATIOS. 


to  ibe  bead  ind  pocket  of  the  author. 


texpuguble  JfpHriiic* 


InpcnlitiDn   of  the 


nn  i  nu'ta  u  Ihe  grcit  (DUo  that  Ibe  Jewbh 
\w,  fanrietl  in  a  iheam  wh  0:1^x11  hr  the  «iffd 
c\  tn  hK  puptl  Adim.  conliining  lU  Aie 
till  H'lcnen.  And  the  mlumo  niit  by 
Hter,    entitkJ    llie  Simaitiidc.   which    k 

hide>  nf  callle;  unlwlhe  lj,ini.  or. »  wtiiE  my 


jiiIboT^p  and  an  h&nderanue  to  luminiE,  aibd  an 
occMnii  o(  the  gre«e"t  uttcf  them  being  tml. 
The  Isrucncw  of  HnlaKtaS  Irealiiei  >i  a  (nrat 
cjnie  of  hii  beinp  oe^'dedi  vhile  I.otig^niu  and 


frohwatiT  phnk'iam,  riTiliiii  wn■cc^ 
aH""<"'  in  it  In  i'Antlibnr,  aould  1 
M  aikd  xiand,  aBtTtnta]  di4enci>iirjipeincnt 
of  the  f^ate«1  ndTuttattcA  the  Duffni^ 
Xing  Arihltr  it  it*  pamplUet  nl       "    ~ 


A  <1u|Kla>n'i  St.  Pu 


.....si's 

'I  quirk  and  j^ejit  nnikmaiulind  i  rlurto 
M  nil  capacity,  and  10  coqAne  nil  time  u 
•  hit  inleikcl.'' 


KotHitlMiniUtvi  w  mnrl 

of  ■  iarmcT  aee  rei^nh^d  t 
rcali,:er.  uii  BjiUel.  caiih 


™«™ta"iKi 


vho  cheered  the  luftre  of  hif  patronage  with  the 
Aeami  of  a  KDod  dinner,  to  place  bb  guetff 
KCOTiUna  la  the  ure  and  thiclinng  of  the  booki 
they  had  jmnted.    At  the  head  of  the  table  vil 


applied  it  wilb  hii  lellcil 
of  the  Spectator. 

Montaigne'i  WDtlu  ha 


in  the  KM  of  li 


In  1  nll^ioiu  book  puliliAed  by  a  fellov  of  Ibe 
Ihit  Jenu  Chmt,  author  of  Ibe  religion  vbicb 


Di  be  iay\  be  coafbondi  "Ibe  jfitiiil 


IK  iwarded  the  Jevikh  people  at  a 
itm,  dim  not   believe    God   promi*ed 


i-egirenthH  •ketch,  ui>  lerrafoi 


turned  avay,friiihteiKilaltbciTdiinihDtive!  Calalopie  r>f /fi^f irx. 

ilenui  TetnieJ  him  in  l^uluch,  IrhsK  I     It  h  niber  itticulir  that  »  late  ai  in  Ihe  year 
rotk<  ojU'^iM  of  nnall  trealiioi  but  Ihe  prfnurj  17&5.  a  votk  Thouht  have  appeared  in  Paris,  wbicb 


THE  GOOD  ADVICE  OF  AX  OLD  LITKRARY  SINNER.  ijt 

thai  IhoK  CtiMui  oT  wtwm  HuKrtc, 
King  of  Itw  VuHlab»  cat  the  longuo,  ip*ti 
mraaitouity  M  die  KRiAindcr  of  their  da^i  ftun 
whence  b  deduced  the  eonit^nnat  *f  Ihu  mnatli 
■uini  the  AiiiiB,  Ibe  Sociniiiii,  and  the  Dno. 
peftkutarly  ai^iiw  the  author  of  Bmiliui,  bj/ 

'~( thiir  diflicoliin.'"    It  bean  Ihii  Ipipaph ;    „ .,,  . 

RittiimitatioaemfatiampvfvttkiiUymttaiutt    fean,  he  gave  (he  public  a  work 

entertainment  In  hia  own   Kemoir*,  wnKn   ne 

friendi.     The  fhi|[u]ar  HHtfcripc  to  his  Epistle 
Dedicitory  contains  ncchent  adiice  lor  auihiin, 

i  iei"ph~h5ln 
....,,  T  of  wrrtched 

nlumn  their  unhappy  iihIumt^'  bai  pmtlnced 


::5' 

colLeclon, 


Hvue)  of  hb  IHcndu,    I 

list  of  names  o1  (hoae  persons  who  had  giiYn  bim 
booLs.  He  primed  hit  wgrlu  at  his  own  expense, 
ai  the  booksellers  had  unanimnusl)'  liecmd  this. 

why  1  esteem  the  productions  of  the  Abbi  n,  fa 
IhF  sincuUrneitneKof  (heir  bindinoi  heembiH- 
Usbes  Dicm  ID    bnulilullF,  thai  the  eye  Rnds 

Ihc  Epigramt  of  Martial,  this  Critic  wrote.  Bj^mbu 
atainil  Mcriul.  LiaaXy,  for  want  of  eKiplD>- 
RicDl.  Dur  Abbe  began  a  Innslation  of  the  Bible  i 
but  having  inserti^  tbe  notes  of  Ihe  vislODafy 
Isaac  de  li  Fc>iciB,  the  worb  was  bunic  b)-  orikr  of 
the  ecclesiaidcal  court.  He  wu  ibo  au  abandant 
writer  in  eene,  ami  nultin|dy  told  i  poet,  that 

Ihey  are  worth,"  leplied  tlw  saccuKic  critic.  De 
MaRriles  in  his  Mmnri  bilttrly  complains  of  the 
injuMice  done  lo  Mm  by  hb  coMemwiraria  i  and 

by  the  public,  he  has  neierthele*  piiblisbed,  by 


perfectly  undenlajid  the  lanpia^  of  bis  ori^nal, 


■liiappcimed  in  his  politka]  projects  that  he  rC' 
incapable  of  attempting  onifinal  eompoiiiiDii.  he 
wrote  tbo^e  ei^ty  volumes,  which  bave  never 


t  to  pretend  En  the  favours  of  for- 


in  po&esAon  of  credit  and  authority;  to  be  hand- 
lome  in  one's  perwni  ^  10  adulate  the  powerful ;  to 

idicule  and  cnnlempt  wbeikes'er  they  shall  do  you 

D  be  frightened  at  a  thousand  obstacles  which 

I  bevt  ol  stnne  1  insnJt  worthy  irsen  who  are 

vbile  al  the  same  time  eeery  duly  Biiist  be  aluu- 


UYSTERIES,  MORALITIES,  FARCES,  AND 


rsVr 

>f  Ih« 

nine  ipfri- 

.rrd  1 

inSsr 

f^lgtimstcaeelledinl 

Ihr  public 

tjl 


MTBTERIES.  MORALITIES.  FARCES.  AND  80TT[ES. 


CDTcrcd  with  theltaADdimi^  of  TiricHU  colours,  ttut  kn  14M  be  hw  played  ind  nhibiteiL  ii 
ToniKd  ■  piciumjuc  dlbitalloa  which  11  lenglfa  ll>ilcria  by  penoni  of  PoillCTV  "The  Silivily 
cHciRd  tbc  pfcCIT  of  (be  cilitno  to  rrrcl  OCCAHOn-  pK«ion,  jnd  knarrtclkn  of  Cbrel/'  in  grc^i 
ally  J  flagcDD  ad  eitcnijve  tprrf  of  gnhiiui.  Thae  [iTiumph  tnA  ipLcndour  ;  Ibcrr  were  jaoemdiL^  or 
fficctack^  xnnl  m  the  amtutmciil  umI  iiDrrudion  j  thi»  <  ccaskon  mort  of  ihe  lulin  uid  gmtlrmrn  o 
of  the  iKoplr.  90  illmtlive  wire  thae  gnm  ei-  the  mighbouring  tounlio. 
hibilioiH  in  Ihe  iliA  us.  Ihil  Ihci  fbimcd  one  of  I  We  inll  now  ciamine  Ihe  Myanin  themxlrn 
iba  puipme  10  give  1  ipcdmcii  iton 


perioTT 


i^li 


»  the  reuler,  thai  m 
exprevkiun  ind  vulgar  rtavviti 


uA  Ibey  were  pertbnned  in  the  open  plain.  Thb 
wai  al  Ma!4  coafomuble  to  the  critical  precepi  ot 
tbit  mad  knighi  wbme  opinion  is  (Mliccil  by  Pope. 
II  appean  by  a  hi.  In  Ihc  Harlcian  HbriTy  quoted 


veiT  paUmatA  w  the  ciipcnie  of  the  dil^tettt 
corvoratkiiu  of  that  city»  ami  tbe  reader  may 
•mile  at  the  ludicToui  combinitniu.  "The 
Creitlon"  wai  pertoinH'd  by  Ibc  Dnpeni  the 
"Deluge"  by  the  D>ert;  "Abraham,  Mekbi»e< 


nen  i  and  the  "  Asceibion  "  by  Ihe  Tailcn.  In 
thoe  pieces  the  acton  repmented  the  penon  of 
the  Almighly  tkithuut  being  Kuiblc  of  the  gitw 
impiety.  So  oniliiiriU  were  Ibey  in  Ibis  infancy 
of  the  theairical  art,  that  very  KtTouscoiuequencea 
were  produced  by  their  ridiculoui  blunders  iikd 

Prenchi^tre,"  yol.  ii,  p.  iSj,  thcfoHowing 
tiEiguiir  anecdots  are  proerved,  concerning  a 
Uyitery  which  took  up  toxnl  dap  in  the  per- 

"In  the  year  14JT,  when  Cnnrad  Bayer,  bishop 
of  Met2,  caused  the  Mystery  of  'The  Paaicni '  to  , 


31  i^cult  task,  he  did  it 


with  thai  agreeable  sjmplicity 


the  lolloving  diafogue  Antic  itid^  Caiaphas  arc 

Tliey  hare  often  btougtat  their  tHh  to  my  houaeio 

"  >y  God,  it  is  ttue ;  my  Kn-anti  n me mber 
Ibem  very  well.    To  live  more  11  theit  case  they 


;e  things,  to  say  there  b 


MTSTEKIES.  MOBAUTIKS,  FASCF.S.  J.V/'  .<<>rr;j 


John  dte  a  pcriwt  martyt*  mkpml  m  tlw 
^oiludcnnjauof  Plt^ocI^«AndLol^ti■n■v 
D  utooitficd  in  ih?  pronl  linan  At  the 
.  ..  strt  Ahiurdity  >nd  hidccd  hlvphemy  vhich 
the  wiitcnottbcK  MonlHin  pcrtnJItEd  tbeimclm, 
uhI,  vhat  it  imve  cktnoitUikaT>',  wm  pcnnittvd 


ennti  from  the  "  Mj'Uen'  o(  ft, 


ChrisdaTii,  pmecutd  thcm^  «nd  thuK  » 


I  k  cbcTJil  Hin  cheviu 


UbiteldeCdttw 

OujeDei(ili>)ue 

Sir,  bt  pteubei  1 

Ood«P>rii 

KfSSI^SS 

k  vlthDul  ha 

ie  weep*,  he  laoght,  he  w 


ii  .1(1  Lilt, 

At  peiiptcV  hniK 


It,  Ihei  m  iivrJ ' 
i«  pittr  ihm  pRKWiti  lit  f  nmiain  thr  -r*.  - 


.)i»tlv  (ilBnird  hv  Bjik  <mi  ihw  sirtihcil 
... ..  intilWiiB,  tlui  »hUr  ilin  imihihiint  ilw 
pniptr  Inim  mnliljtina  mi  Ihr  Himl  hMi>ii  in 

tiuih.thnpniiiillcilihriintii<iT  ii  »n  ilirihraitr 
wUicd  Khh  '  Ihiiihind  t/tm  imniln'm,  vhuh 

a iRTk>\ uiK.    U'4inun,*llli1ii>  unulrkxflirr, 

ctnitempUtr  the  eTr.it  f¥,-t 
«hkh  the  iiD|HlM>e<l  wp« 

mir  tin,  it  oUI  aH 

people  whD  were  %aA 

the  «KTed  hi^off' m  tl ,  

EaithlulK  tni  heJUiliully  lebinl,  ahnili 
ume  time  he  pcnnitied  to  we  Hwm  leg 
Ob  the  Mi|Ee  lUvncrd  vilh  Ifar  nnum 


Iniitii- 
ikHlLw 


ti.iiwiirilie_ „ -„ , 

phi<:illy  ulmenes  IliJI  iKHirirr,  lltrv  luH  thnr 
■nei  '"^natflnly  leMhiiuthrKnMi  Inithiiil  nini- 


ri^uUnn  in  Ibcy  wne, \\tty  viilrnnl  tl'ir  iiiiinirri 
nf  the  peirtilu  w  ditntliw  \\w  imldii'  Jltentiuii  In 
ipcetartn  bi  wlddi  Ihe  miiid  vii  luniTniril,  ml 


rmm 


lUke  Rprchrndblr. 

hul  Ihr  iKriMi 
I  <l»li  Klvt  m  IniHMmii  will 
MliMLITIO.  Thb  NntjEli 
Omdriniutkni  M  l^nn,  •"  tilt 
Mhrinir  hr  tin-  BenrM  iil  ihr  I 
The  ueril«"<  KowmR  dirm  i 
TooaiJi  the  clwe  »  i  Mai  lir 

the  Lord  Chief  JuitKtr    fun 


larrfral  than  rirrr,  and 


IJ4             MYSTERIES.  MORALITIES,  FARCES,  AND  SOTTIES.                     | 

accused  of  hanog  murdered  lour  personi  by  foict 
Df  gorging  Ibem.    gxprniim  coDdemnt  rttumg 

Fiailiif  asks  fot  a  ttthei  umfatot.  lod  nukes  > 

quAbn.,  &c.,  -hirr^S  occaBonS.  <ta«  bis 
euculioner  DIM  In  a  nge  ttopi  hli  mmitti,  pm 
the  cord    about    hi.    n^k,  an'd    .<ru«lei    bim. 

not  to  apprOAcb  Ciaiirr  too  near.  And  to  be  pUced 
at  the  dliUDce  of  lii  bouTS'  walking  under  pAin  of 

And  tirean  To  observe  with  tcruputoui  euctneia 

Tbe  MDAALiTiiB  were  aUcioTiciI  dramas,  whotc 

people  not  yel  accuttomed  lo  petcei.-e  ihaT  what 

T!''i"'».  ».  ,™,i™,l .  =™.. 

the  broaden  mlnfa.  oiit^nites  among  tbcac  andeot 

who  hariiig  ftolen  hit  matter^  sheep,  a  adeiaedby 
bb  liw>er  only  to  reply  to  his  judge  bv  mimicking 
the  tiling  tl  a  ^.  and  i^  tfie  lawyer^ 
Rtimi  claims  hii  fee.  pays  bim  by  noatbeicoin, 

lip  I'be  AncieBtluie  of  the  "  PaliUn  "  In  it«,  and 

Tbev  bAd  AnDlber  speciei  of  diama  tliU  broader 
IhAn  Farce,  and  more  ilrongly  featured  by  the 

one  1  hnd  in  tbe  Duke  dc  1a  VaUiteel "  BlbbD- 
thcque  du  TbUtie  Fnntoit." 

^gini  aitiricJ  provcS,   bll   Uler  annkiog 
freely.  They  dwcoier  IhaT   Ihar  fool><ap.  want 

■raic  trade.    Wie  inlroducei  Ihli  progeny  ol  her 
bob  ID  Ibe  AMd,  who   lakes   Ihem  jnlo  bb 
KTVicc.    The  H>rU  trio  Iheli  skill,  and  b  much 

pinches  hb  feci  by  making  the  ihoei  too  small ; 
£e    T,.rA.f-lool   h^   hit  coal  loo  loose  DC  loo 
liehl  aboul  him:  The  rnrif-fosl  lavt  hit  misaes 
eiiher  u»  short  or  loo  Tedious,    -fhey  all  igtee 

must  be  ^k,  and  pievail  upon  him  to  act  some 
ad>ice  from  1  phy«ciin.    The  U-W^hgiu^ 

.HarttK!^"      He  omc.  to  visit  bit  pAOeol. 

troubka  hit  he«l  It  The  idea  of  a  new  deluge 
powder  i  CD  which  The  Phvticun  giecs  thb  ad- 

KoU^.'!S''De'J^I°nEw^% 

Eatre  Ahbci,  Evequcs.  Pneun, 

Donner  aui  flaltcDn  audience, 

ftiur  un  nen  enire  let  Chretiieni  1" 

And  you  leallv  tnjuble  yourtelf  aboul  thit  I 

nII'ld*Il'^n^e''2?n"of?hii    ourtet 

KilhSA*e(i?lhirple.sure^ 

Minding  Iheir  Dim  interetlB,  and  teiiiog  on  what 

Lendin'^lhcit'ean  »'flATferctt, 

For  a  bubbte,  among  OltiMUni  i 

choh-  tfvet  himself  <if  eotiieiy  To  The  direciion'^ 
bu  Ibo^.    In  A  word,  ibe  S'frJJ  dtcKi  bifmelf  in 

«d™ii^u^u£?i^f  Ae^^T"  "  **'' 

Such  WAS  Ibc  nge  Cor  Mymrlc*,  that  Kenc 
d'Anjou,  King  of  Naples  anil  Mcilv,  and  c,n.ui  rf 

magniUcence,  and  nude  Ibem  a  i-etv  seriDuB  Dcm- 
pATion.     Being  in  Provenrt,  and  having  received 
leltcn  from  Kit  ion  The  Prince  of  ClLdiriA,  who 
asked  him  tor  an  immediaie  Aid  of  men.  he 
replied,  thai  he  hut  a  ver>-  dinerent  matte,  in 
bAud.  for  he  «-as  fuUr  emploied  m  Kltbng  the 

Mt.   Smin,   in    his   "  Minnen  and   Cuitomt 
of  The   Englbh,"  has  giren  a  detcripliun  of  tbe 
suse  in  jBog^nJ  when  K>Thrric  were  ihe  only 

tiered    MyHerta  were   Ihe    only   ihejWcAl    ucr- 
Ibrmance..  what  is  now  dli-J  the  ttage  did  ttTcn 
mnii^  of  Three  scTMal  platforms,  or  stages  rabcj 
one  atiove  anolher.    Un  Ibe  nppcrmiM  tai  the 

the  aerond  appeared  The  Holv  gaintj.  and  gloriried 
flKn  i  and  Ibe  last  and  lowest  was  acci;pled  br 
mere  men  who  had  not  tr  paiKd  horn    ihb 
transHori  llfelo  tbeiegiont'Df  eiimii}.    On  one 
tide  of  tlib  iDsrcat  plaiTorm  wa.  tbe  tnemblADCc 
of  a  dark  pilchv  ca.-etn  from  whence  bnied  ap- 

and  cries  of  the  wrelched  soub  tormented  by  the 

And  to  inmurt  The  tpeclATon  .—To  delight,  because 
they  were  uinally  Ihe  greatest  lesicn  and  burhnint 

LOVE  AND  FOLLY.  AN  AXCrEUT  MORALITY,  *<■. 


AB  Hwcdote  rcUling  to  in  EllflJl^h  Kyviay  pfc-  t  kvrHi  ut  nc^'cr  m  Iw  nnUi,il. 

■CBB 1  CBTioii*  Mcltnea  o(  Hit  Tnanrm  of  our       In  Ihv  IbiM  pjrt,  Vmu.  pmi-nM  bcndf  M  the 

coBBOy,  wbKh  dm  could  iilmK  ol  taiAi  a  npn- 1  foot  of  the  Ifatnne  of  Jupiter  to  campbln  of  Hie 


...  ibelibemonm.of  outtigccoiBmilteilln- *W()        _.  ._. 

Ihc  we  wngnil.  A  pliy  w»  Kled  In  one  of  comnianili  ftUj  to  ajipcji.- -Khc  iiplki,  thil 
Ibeimndpii]  citlea  ot  Unhand,  under  the  diiec-   llwunli  ibe  bu  leawns  to  juiUIt  beinclf,  >Ik  wiU 

a  namenut  uKinhl)'  of  both  wiei,  wbeiem  ipcak  loo  niDcb.  or  to  omit  what  ■•  material. 
A4*m  and  Evr  apueaTtd  on  the  Hage  roliielf  \riU;>iaks  tot  a  cuunvllnr,  anil  cbnnn  Mmitr)'; 
■akcd,  pcrfbnned  tbeir  vhok  part  in  the  Rpre-  { AvMb> »  Klecteil  b>  Venui,  TIk  kmith  pnt  (iw 
■enlntionaf  Bdcn,  to  Ibe  H-ipent^  lemptation,  to  .>v4>  of  a  long  dlncrtailnn  licmeen  Jupiter  anil 

(ltd  <aaT«iinE  about  Iheir  nakednni,  and  to  iIk  .  Jupiter,  il  he  «l'>hca  la  lane  ol  trae^  happmcv,  to 
tupplying  of  ilig-larei  to  coier  it.    vt'aitnn  ob- 1  ikiccnd  on  canh,  to  lay  doKn  ail  bi<  iiu^nty  and 


"Slfc^; 


:le  wul  adord  die  naUer  a  h> 


On  of  the  man  elegant  MonUim  was  ■ 
pOKd  by  LouiK  L'Abt  i  the  Aipaua  of  Lyoi 
■510,  adored  by  ber  colemporatiei.  With  n( 
twrdinary  beauty^  the  however  divpli^ed 


Ik  true,  but  hi'  Ibinki  lb 


the  lifth  put,  Apollo,  Ihc  adrocUc  for  Vcntu, 

a  ktnA  pleading  demands  jw<llfe  aKaiiM  >^, 


The  giMi,  Kdui-vd  by  hit  dnqucnce,  tbow  by 
tbvir  indijmatioB  that  thuv  vouLd  eondemn  t'sUj 
witbout  hcuiag  ber    ailiocale   Henuiy.     But 

on  of  cUnical  learainK,  and  aveinoltR- ',  Hii  piradinn  l>a>  lung  n  IIk  adnnc  purtsS,  -niil 
poetry  Tetined  and  fancifnl.    To  mom-   hn  aruniviil*  In  Inmir  nf  fM)  are  iii  piiudlile. 


of  diatinguivbing  hei»elf  by  ■  mUttaiy  >^it,  and 
mta  tUcknamcd  Capi^  Loulv.  Klie  vaa  a  Kiw 
ildct  and  ■  tine  Intaart.  Itbe  ptvfided  m  the 
•HemtdiLiafpetur-    '" .-..  i. .— 


Impirnau. 


VK  nivpnilul  jour  conteit  tnini  tlua  ilay  tii 
timet  neven  tinm  nine  centaneii.  Jo  the 
time  Ire  comnunil  jvn  to  live  iiiiK'alily 
icTt  whbinit  injuTiiu  nne  awitlur.  taUy 
i.-ad  Inv,  anil  lake  him  whilbenon-er  Iw 

lling   the   >alca,  leuliince  ihall     Iw   pru- 

1)'  beautiful  cuoteiitKini  «c  vnttiTed  in  lhh> 

ilrma;  it  vjs  trmfiri^ualand  ptailulan  idea 
..  ..  _  _.  ..  .Ltitii,  Bui'ii  ■■m  iiK  I  M"i  .J  lie  dpprcipfiattid  b)  Ibeifx-t^  I^Mlm  Mo- 
snhUealion  of  Ihig  Horaliti,  bwanw  generally  .talily  no  pethap.  nne  ihc  piiiicipiic  nf  fnlrrbj- 
pcKliaed.  Eiaimui,  .in4  the  in  r  and  JD'O  ul  L.>  tonliine. 

■  a  the  Unit  part,  Int  and  FMj  "rf—  •■  '1>' 


miival  to  wbich  be^ad  invileil  Ihegodt.  '  liUi 
obieTvIng  lai'fjust  going  to  atcp  in  at  the  ball  nf 
the  lenlirai,  pivbei  bim  away  and  enlef»in  lint. 
Lnt  it  enraged,  but  Ftilj  in^lst^  on  her  ptc- 

vith  FtBj,  tModa  hn  Iww  and  vhonti  an  artoir  s 
but  ibe  balled  Ut  atlcmpt  by  tendering  herself 
l«ririb)e.    She  in  hertumbecomeifurinw,  faJb 

Ibemwiih  (bandage,  which  LDUUI  nut  be  taken 


mmVELETTES. 


136                          BBLiaiona  nouvelettes. 

lit™  un  tatnum.                                                         j  Ecr,  ijoj,  1  And   i  it"'"'™  of  Ih™  inlulalKni. 

llnauluU  OCOiro  nr  Jlllrii  G>IAku>  pnnted  !  TIkv  hiiT   pracrrfd   Ihe   imw  cl«ctil   oOCT,  m 

by  John    Crunninpr,  .jcxi.     "  A   prim,"   ■»>    which  Ih»  fulMit  HluUi  Ibc  kiir  ud  Ihc  rari  of 
UK  .uthot,  ■•  whjcE  4h<iun*  -ith  fto-m  lot  ttt ,  thr  holy  Mijin. 

» Ihey  jic  tnpenolK™.    Tlu.  «  mighl  exnue,   of  ihc  ni>«icjj  mo  1     Linaof  tbi  ccnBi  «id  cit- 

IimDdlo.ed.uchttiiiieji  but  tbt>»».M  »h«h  ,  pjij  „(  ^^  nunc  of  lore  1    Ch.io.of  the  praon  of 

J^t'n   Ibi^nd   viigini,   wilh   .U  Ibt  licmumi. 

chaiilv!     Ncti   thai   cau^l^nua,  and   iball   be 

UKd  in  the  bunting-day  of  vuli  1  '■ 

>i)[T  Horace,  u  whjl  ii  preieiitcd  io  lU  iti  nudity 

Aifiilalin  »  Ilir  £ir>. 

to  the  rye.    Ont  of  that  dnigm  ij  only  ndicu- 

"  1  ulute  je,  intelligent  can  of  Mirii  •  yt  pioi- 

ilubi  luthmg,  vhitc  Cupid  hovering  round  him 

thnt  petilKHH;  laliition  at  the  audience  of  Ihc 

om^  in'hu.uccEBi'wt  hirt  hul  m.™  gm 
•nd  Knaiie  <l«Kni  like  Ihii,    There  a  t  linith- 
•ble   piclun    in   •   >ilUgE   In    Holland,  in  which 

Rcceiien  ^eral  of  allwanbl    Te  ire  pierced 

Abiihim  ■?«;«•  r»d>-  to  Mctifice  hu  Km  Ibm 

The  Imagca,  piinli,  and  minialun,  with  which 

•plcndid  ceTcioanici.  haie  hniucntlr  been   con- 

piiniing,  in  which  the  Virgin  receiia  the  inoun- 

«Taied  to  the  porp«e,  of  love  :  they  have  been 

»  many  lOtitc  oflennKl  wDttby  to  have  been  im- 

of beadi  lied  round  hci  wiiil.  reiiiing  het  o«-n 

pended  in  Ihe  temple  of  Idalia.     Pope  Aleunder 

oflicei,  and  knechnK  before  i  crucifii:    ot,  htlc 

VI.  bad  the  iruga  of  tbe  Viigin  nude  id  rrpre- 

pme  at  WoroB,  in  «h.ch  ibe  Virpn  rtrowJe™ 

■n  the  hopper  of  •  miU.  while  from  the  other  iiite 

Maria  del  Popolo  i  and   Julia  P.mcjc  fumhJied  a 

he  maa,  chiugcd  inlo  Unk  mocieb  of  bread 

Kibjcct   for  another  Virgin.    The  umc  genius  of 

with  which  the  pneBi  lean  the  people.    Maithi- 

S.''tuan^".'£  th^q^'^ofTenn^llTam^' 

■Hl,  1  modem  navellcl,  docnbn  a  pimiit  in  a 

church  at  Conaance,  caUed  the  Conception  of  the 

lor   Ihe   face   of  Ihc  Virpn   Mar..     Hea^e  elx- 

hoJyViigio.   AuoMimnhnonaclond.whcncc 

wbere  Ufirmi,  ihat  the  Vicein  Har>  w»  gencraUy 

he  dartj  out  a  vM  beam,  which  paw  through  a 

dove  ho.ctinR  ju^  below  i  at  IhE  end  of  a  beim 

appean  a  Urge  lianvanni  egg.  in  which  egg  ii 
KcD  1  child  In  mddhDg  ckxha  with  t  glor>' 

in  Ihe  coulticii. 
Tbe   praver-bookj   of  certain    piouj    libertine* 

wen  dcconled  >ntb  the  poiuiiB  of  Ibcir  favourite 

opem  her  mouth  Io  icciite  Ihe  egg. 
I  moH  uol  p>_  uDBoliccil  in  lEii  anicle  a  pro- 

ci-n  of  Ihe  viigin  and  Jaux.    Thi.  icandaloui 

diKiionateiinvagantiniadesgn.  in  which  the 

practice  wai  palticulailv  picvalent  in  that  reign  of 
dehaucfaei}'  in  Prance,  when  Henry  ril.  held  the 

The  publication  now  jjverted  to  wai  not  pre- 

•enled  tn  the  world  in  a  halbalDui  age  and  in  a 
barbanui  couotiy,  but  printed  ai  Parii  in  t«»S. 

be  Ken  a  mined  ape,  giving  \a  benediction  to  "a 
mao   pre«ralc  before  it ,  a  keen  nproarh  to  Ibe 

dcigy   of  Ihat   day.     Charles  V.,  hooncr  pious 

that  emperor  affected  Io  be,  had  a  mimi  painted 

Dm,    Thalii.-ADerouISalutUicinoflheHolt 

more    nnnjie   than    Ihe  wotk    iOcIf,     Vaion  ic-  1  inolhei,  and   in  many  much  more  ofleniive  atti- 

piobalei  il  in  thex  juit  termi  ■  "U-hit  would  ,  tudo,  not  adapted  to  heighten  tht  pietv  of  the 

devotion  of  IhB  ntioDBy  monk  ciuKd  to  be   It4liiu  curicd  tbii  tule  u  e«c«.    Tlie  muuwn 

pfinwd,  with  pennJHion  of  hii  lupelin,  UediU- 1  of  Dor  coanlir  wen  bur  nRly  laiued  with  thu 

RBJ.IGIOVS  XOUVKLKTTES. 


iBg  cnT  these  ipleDdid  Runuwnpti^ 


-cotbcrved    her  h 


■Ding  In  titf. 

dajolr  ibe  ttwD^bl  nl  in  cxpcflicnl  in  lieu 

puniKnl  tn  The  fenj-man^  vhicn  Injuiivil  ■!  Lr 

BdhiK  IwiM,  ionle 

pnuicQtul  pugri  m. 

uvcfonnnl 


tindintc  Ihc  minclE  oftL 

rtaioiUB.  bomirer.  for 

o(  (he  yta  147*,  inil »  ntillcd  "  Conv 

the  ngiu  ind  title  of  the  hef  ind  hcmiin  of  the 
cmin^  of  ftDulogne^  which  li  held  \ty  the  Count 
of  Biint  ?al.ta  Kiidetifiithful  kcuuhI  tKronihe 

lift  ^  l*<  /'iFgin?  a«  inro^™'ifiJI  .he  n- 
•bted  the  commind)  at  Cind 


'  curioiu  ihapwd}'.     when  fthe  hid  tiniihed 
trtifnat  pfoducvinn,  her  confi'«»r  idvixd  her 

)  did  nai  think  h«  lea  inwinni  thin  iihe  in- 
ned  Ihcm  «he  wu,  idviied  her  to  Te'write  the 

ntTf  10  country :  new  eilitioni  ippiaTed  it 


of  Ihe  Virgin,  «hlch  induced  lier  to  urit 
a  life.  Mil  beipiii  ibe  hi>t«y  at  ni.  u  i 
'  eipreiicd  t  for  fhe  htf  fonned  ■  nimtivi 
pmcd  dnriiiB  Ac  nine  tnnnthi  in  vhicl 
F^n  wu  confined  in  tlic  uitmh  or  be 

>n  lURmcntjtinn  of  wiKelic  gii.ird"  i  wi 
i-etil  convmilumi  which  God  held  witi 


Id   Stahtrn,   Id   JfdrM   Aiufd,  while  IM  intmrei 

the  Kbranes  of  the  curioui  miy  yet  nnsen'e  1 
vfadl  of  thcK  nlieioui  aem-rUflui.  liK  J«iiiita 
were  the  u«uil  uinon  of  tlieve  rhapwdie^.    I  tind 


uihc  10  the  piwmce  of  nith  o«hcr,  — 

lUcpoK  Ihen  ire  miM  igrcuble  buhi  in  which 
ce  itaill  iwim  like  hA  1  (hit  we  ihill  lU  wirUc  » 
weetly  w  bik>  ind  ni^itingila  i  Ihn  (he  uu(eb 
nil  dic«  thennebTa  in  (cmile  hibifi.  tlieii  hiir 
UTkd  i  weirinR  petncoKt  and  firdinKiles,  and 

mute  Ihcinirh-QmniAquenukLleaDrivindbilb. 
-Women  wilt  »inic  mnttf  ogreeibly  (bin  men  to 
unit  tbtne  eotert  jinmcnln,  ind  at  the  reiuncctiuu 
.rdl  hare  more  Iniuriim  treve^  ornimentcd 
with  ribbou  and  head-dre*a  ai  In  thii  lilc  I 

h  were  Ibc  hooki  once  «  dnvutlr  >(ndicd, 

How  i-ety  hoM  niu«  the  min^  uT  the 


id  in  iccmini  of  another  hnuk  of  (lii>  (lav, 

Hpiridul  Kalrndar,  cnmpnwd  iif  aa  miny 

diyi  m  the  yeir  |  written  fi»r  the  cimiiiU(hm  of 
the  pinui  and  Ihc  eunoui.    By  fjthcr  (1.  Cintade, 

-1  PieachiT  It  Buvnne.  10»i."    To  Kire  a 

I  of  toil  uniculir  cuilertiiin  take  an  Kpinram 


,  ne  pouna  ilonc  plua  ni 
mmi  le  rude  Kperon  dr 


I  ^  /'  ••  II. M-:  Y  '"X >' /.'  I  rj:i:." 


V    ..r  :     ■.^   •  ..  •;     t     •:  ...  '-..  ...-.    :.    .  "A  .    -. ;    - , 

\vyi{;i-ver  coiunxtd  .i  thinij  wjth  sikIi  skill, 

'In  keep  "ipunrinj;  a  horv:  to  inukc  him  stand  still ! 

One  rf  the  mn^t  extravagant  unrki  projected 
on  the  MJhject  of  the  Viri;in  Mir)-  appear>  to  be 
the  following  one.  The  prior  of  a  convent  in 
Piri"»  had  reiteratcdly  entreated  VanlUi  the  histo- 
rian to  examine  a  work  composed  by  one  of  his 
monki ;  ami  <'f  uhKh--not  liemg  himself  addicted 
to  letters— he  >M<hed  to  be  govemed  by  hi> 
opinion.  V.inlhtt  at  leni^th  yielded  to  the  en« 
troiitii-".  of  the  prior  ;  and  to  req.ile  the  cntic,  they 
1  lid  on  two  tallies  for  hia  inspection  seven  enor- 
innij*  volumes  in  tolio  ! 

This  r.ither  ili««hi.Mrtened  our  reviewer :  but 
grc.iter  v  ts  hi-i  astonishment,  when,  haviiij^ 
optneil  the  hr<t  %olume,  he  found  it?»  title  to  be 
Summa  Dei-f*iir,e ,  and  as  Saint  Thomas  had  made 
a  Sum,  or  S>>tem  of  Theoloufv,  m3  our  monk  had 
formed  a  System  ot  the  f'lrjjin  •  He  immediately 
coinprehemled  the  dcsijin  ol  our  good  lather,  \\  ho 
hail  liljoured  on  this  work  lull  thirty  year*,  and 
who  boasted  he  had  treated  '7  hra  Thnusand 
Questions  rnnremmg  the  Virgin ;  of  which  he 
tlatteretl  himself  nut  a  siui^le  one  had  ever  yet 
iHTcn  imairined  by  any  one  but  himself 

Perhaps  a  more  extraordin  try  dt-si^rn  was  never 
known.  Varilla-«,  pressed  to  gi\e  hi-s  judgment  on 
this  work,  ailvised  the  prior  with  gre.it  pru<lence 
and  good-nature  to  amuse  the  honest  oUl  nmnk 
with  the  hope  of  printing  these  seven  folios,  but 
always  to  st.irt  some  new  dirticulties ;  for  it  would 
be  inhuman  to  mve  so  <leep  a  ch.ainrin  to  a  man 
who  liad  reached  his  74th  year,  as  to  inform  him 
(;f  the  nature  of  his  favourite  occupations;  and 
that  after  his  death  he  should  throw  the  m:\cu 
folios  into  the  tire. 


■1-.    !!...• 
:.1  .,    : 


■  P  i:  V 

-It!. 1:1. 


3. 


"  CRITICAL   SAGACITY,"    AND    "  HAPPY 
CONJECTURE;"  OR,  BENTLEY'S  MILTON. 

-BtsTLEV,  long  to  wTangling  schools  con- 


fined. 

And  but  by  books  ac(|uainted  with  mankind — 
To  .Milton  lending  sense,  t«>  Hurajk  wit. 
He  makes  them  write  wh.it  never  poet  writ. 

Dk.  Bf.nti.f.\'s  edition  of  our  English  Homer  is 
sutliciently  known  by  name,  ,^s  it  st.inds  a  tem- 
fving  beair>n  to  conjectural  criticism,  I  shall  just 
liotiie  M)nK-  of  those  \iol.itions  which  the  learned 
critic  \enturetl  to  (ommit  \\'\\\\  all  the  arn)gancc 
ft  a  Sf.dii'.iT.  'I  his  man  m»  deeply  versetl  in  an- 
cient h-arnin>{  it  Mill  apjiear  >^as  destitute  ol  taste 
and  genius  in  his  name  luigiiage. 

Ii  was  ,in  iinlortiin  ite  ingenuit\  in  our  critic, 
when,  t<»  persuade  the  world  of  the  neci*s»ity  of 
his  edition,  he  imagined  a  fictitious  e<litor  of  Mil- 
tiiuS  I*ocms:  for  it  was  this  ingenuity  which  pro- 
diiceil  all  his  absurdities.  As  it  is  certain  that  the 
blind  bard  employed  an  amanuensis,  it  was  not 
improbable  that  many  words  of  similar  sound,  but 
%-eTy  (htferent  signification,  might  have  disfigured 
the  poem  ;  b\it  our  Doctor  was  hold  enough  to 
conjecture  that  this  amanuensis  wtrrpoiattd  whole 


tii'    I'.ii'.-'-.jjiU'.-  "\   !.i>  I'lly  r.ati.r.il!;.  t'-.l-.-'Acil  it. 
Vet  \\  we  miiNt  i:<^n;et  rure.  the  more  probable  one 
will  !>e,  th.it  Milton,  who  was  never  careless  cf  his 
future  fame,  had  his  p<-tem  rcaJ  to  him  after  it  had 
been  published.     I'he  first  edition   appeared  in 
1667,  ami  the  second  in  1674,  in  whicn  all  the 
faults  of  the  former  edition  arc  continued.     By 
these /ciu//j,  the  I>octor  means  what  kt  cooHden 
to  he  such  :  for  we  shall  soon  see  that  hu  "  Canom 
of  Cnticism  "  are  apocryphal. 

Bentlev  sa\-s  that  he  will  supply  the  want  of 
m.inus<-ripts  to  colLitc  (to  use  his  own  wtirds)  by 
his  own  "  SAiiAiiTv,"  and  "  happy  Co.ssjBCTrnc."    I 

Milton,  after  the  conclusion  of  Satan's  speech  to 
the  fallen  angels,  proceeds  thus : 

I.  He  spake  :  and  to  confirm  hiii  words  out  flrw 
3.  Milli(ms  of  flaming  swords,  dran-n  from  tbe 
thigtis 
Ot  mightv  cherubim  :  the  sudden  blaze 
F.ir  rounil  illumin'd  hell ;  higlily  they  rag'd 
.\gainst  the  Highest ;  and  fierce  witH  grasped 

AHMS 

6.  Clash'd  on  their  sounding  shields  the  din  of 

war, 

7.  Hurling  defiance  tow'rd  the  vai'LT  of  HcaTcn. 

In  this  passage,  which  is  as  perfect  as  human  wit 
can  make,  the  Doctor  alters  thrcce  words.  In  tbe 
second  line  he  puts  blatUt  instead  of  ru-arUt;  in 
the  hfth  he  puts  s-werdi  instead  of  arms:  and  in 
the  lost  line  he  prefers  'u.'atis  to  fault.  All  theK 
changes  are  so  manjr  dcfcrdations  of  the  poem. 
'Ilie  word  swurJs  is  f.ir  more  poetical  than  bUdtt, 
which  may  as  well  be  understood  of  knn'ts  ak 
s-zi'ords.  n*he  word  amu,  the  generic  for  the  jpe- 
citic  term,  is  still  stronger  and  nobler  than  ru'orjj; 
and  the  iK'autiful  conception  of  vault,  which  n 
alwa>-s  indefinite  to  the  eye,  while  the  solidity  of 
•rcu//i  woulil  but  meanly  deM.-ri be  the  highest  Hea- 
ven, gixes  an  idea  of  grandeur  and  majesty. 

Milton  writes,  book  1.  v.  6j, 

No  light,  but  rather  darkness  visible 
Served  only  to  discover  sights  of  woe. 

Perhaps  borrowed  from  Spenser : 

A  little  glooming  light,  much  like  a  shade. 

Faer>-  Queen,  B.  i.  C.  i.  St.  14. 

Tliis  fine  expression  of  "  dahkncss  visible" 
the  Doctor's  critical  sagacity  has  thus  rendered 
clearer :  — 

"  No  light,  but  rather  a  transpicvour  gloom." 

Again  (>ur  learneil  critic  distinguishes  the  74th 
line  of  the  first  book-  - 

As  from  the  centre  tlirice  to  the  utmost  pt»le, 

as  "a  \iciouM  \erse,'*  and  thtTefbre  with  "happy 
conjecture,"  and  no  taste,  ihrasts  in  an  entire  ver»e 
of  his  ovin  composition  - 

"DiSlANCk,    WHICH    TO     CXPHtS.S    ALL     MEAbt'RK 
FAILS." 

Milton  tvrttes. 
Our  torments  also  may  in  length  of  time 


Become  our  elements. 


B.  fi.  ver.  374. 


.4  jAxsryrsT  /■/•  r/.-.v.4.^r.                         .w 

fcMlet<^o«tT— 

:r..  ,.ir   ■•.;;=:.r':,::--.  .-.;     ,  .-t:;:;  .-r 

"f>^»...-j.-a-.i    !..■.  r,    .r:—r.:^:--.^ 

BH»»I'L.-e^.T.A&." 

POH  avK»n  r™  •  r=:  .rrw  :=::  --=.=- 

dd»«na».>^.:^r«. 

T>cgKbideiii±^.e7.:7:  :=4A,-e  ?f  ...... 

A  JASStsrsT  ricn..s.iRV. 

to  pmed  the;  =  the  .njt:  =;  w  !:.t^.=r. 

tnm ih:  ihj.k 'k.i^V^i  Ai^.  :•  V.:. 'T^fr. 

crr.t...  l-u-t  :5i-y  !Gt  J in-«ni.t^ tn.-  Meti-.-dij. 

tumnu,  and  in  Leu  H  Ac  i  .■:  ^^w^  - 

n  '-■'■'.  ■  e  .,k!i"-»^jira  iVn-  »..-';  !!:;.■  i'«p,I^ 

"  APtH,  TU  kCHlXArE  ■•!■  HT  : :-    -.Ml.  ■ 

l«r.::^  ■.!!-.  ■:rr..-n::  Int  tlw  T-'it  vi  rirtn. 

ABjltacaouimibIeiT^:i-:c»n*;  ft\M': 

!i^fc;'i^,X'!.-r^!i-.iVS^-'i:'^M'ir,!ili;'!l.;''j"'."!.n* 

Adun  in  ue  bn>er.  ■[  cut  be  n.:  ;n>iiT.(J  mj 

on  >M  Bueni  1.1.K1I  i.n  hi>  Iw^ivnit  i:uim  ji 
UtdipjnuK  in  Kmc  Mile  i.1.aci  In-m  P.,  tiL 

iilik->.t>'.  '1  i; :  jl.r.'  ■  x:  hi'w.'i  cf.  in  *'  :i- « iiti  i ; 
r:iiir;i:.Mt.>  lli<aiiii.ir.^'t>ieN"oi>'l>  '■>•.  iljo- 

W  boa  to  uke  bi.  Ai^-,  Ic^jhlthuRii:  and 
lbad(,n:-uiwiru4y"tbiEk>t!ijtisep-jiiou:tl 

the >*«> lK^,ii.t  i.. ibe  ^»'.>,^. .-£m  bt.»in. 

■ul  if  Adm  ilKBde.1  Ihe  Anff  1  BP  itfiL-et  lb  in 
tbe  dm  or  tntraDcJ  «(  Ibe   b.»er.   CKn   h..' 
rtnvdir  Mkt  "Has  A<bm  tr.uJd  fenirn  li-  bu 
bower  iT  be  VB  BetLC  •  ut  1,1  It  :-■■ 

cn.irwler<  i i  F.mU-n,  if  «nnr.  jiui  l.utbLT.  _ 

c. ■m|*«eJ  fr  i;,e  inoiiKtu'n .  1  the  llut.«V(  Bo^ 
cuiuly,  Aiv  u.  asi\  Btm.  icvci.i]  «.rk»,  »ni.>ii^ 

Out  editor  h«  nude  ihute a Ibc.uund  «milir 
coiKlioulnthiieJ.tioncrMOmi:    h-nehjvc 
UVected  tbu  the  ume  kind  inlcntiKB  nbkli 
■nnmted  Dryden  10  ncroudi:  Cieecb  b<  anJcn  .ke 

>  nnibtion  of  Hoiue  iBHoenteJ  IbMM.  h..  en- 
coufiged  out  Dnctm,  in  ItaiK  eiertiihiji  hh  "  tigi- 

ss:n."t;!."EK  o'jiET^t.is  i^H?';^: 

Jd^luiyi  oixikl  an  U-IkI  ui  I "  •u^vi'  tit  .r  t'liH 

the  (.-dwJlixnnfipiiniY:  anilab.it  HI'  ji.-i.i.l 
U  1  Cmpnt  r«rt  1.  ni  t  iiiii.i..hj|-.l,-.  lb  it  l-Vn.l-u 

r.('  1™  n.1re,'it'Tn  hi-'di.-w.     And  liiJ.^-.l"iUr 
inwuf  PI  l-j[r|M  and  l.lirkin.  J»inkl  B.  1  IK  Ihe 
nra  l.-«<n.  tfL.t»mini.M,-r  JfuUl  ui.e  bi.  »li..- 
linL:  uid  biMik'.ilie  l.nu  miiHl  niji.in»  vbi.b 

tate  hivrUy  "  duldited  Iheit  ...Ibn  uiln  ..fc<u- 
ijjy  j"_iUHl  centrt  oewl  to  ib^t  "  Ime  iiinjeitin^l 

emtly  idmind^^'wbkh  nujitHTbi-  lie  nnK 
i&loited  up  by  fnli^  ediuir>.  ■»  n.i,;b<  ki.e  liu'i 
lanucutile  edlllon,  in  wbuh  Ultk  at  nolliinii 
•honld  be  bond  nl  Uk  Dririinil  1 

hilcreitins  10  men  of  ti»te :  Ihey  nuy  «nivin« 

ud  LMin,  thouKh  t  nranat  lu  br>  renueuLiT 
litenliin.-i  ud  llul  >  ^.rlul  cHlk  nuy  lonK- 
lime.  be  «KL'ei><ul  in  bi>  iUteiBptj  on  a  angli 
VHTd,  lbau)tb  he  nuy  be  lni;<pihle  of  IMinit  in 
mamnuic:    Let  it  ulsn  tenuui  •>  ^  ipbbet  on 

ihewtlior  itmbulii  lu  Ibe  ftisa  diiiuilin  are 
mil  Bell  pUced  in  tbcir  minith.  1.  tHl  tlil.  tendir. 
iiM  honiiHe  to  the  dcmuin  ■  1   llh-  ^KXi  tiuIlH 
which  ti  IH'ein  IMtn  the  (tiiMKi,  'ml  !>■  d>-<Kil 
I.  C.  in  RDder  n.->|>celjbk  Ibir  luniliil.ih  d  |uiil>  i-f 
pjlViiuvnr    Tbi.  iireLile  w,»  j  mt.-t.-li.d  dii.w. 
mnn:  fimibir  vith  tiie  Mil  id  )*<,kine  lulbif 
llun  vilb  Cm  rt  Ibe  fitbcnof  Hie  rliunh.    Mk- 

TIk  MJIuttini;  cpl);nni  ippeaieil  im  bli  uxi- 

tfi(T<inijii«fibi'MnididM.<djnf<in\<ni.  Thi. 
Iii^  Kdu.liw'i.   \c  fHwA  t.1  Hie  i».l.i.m~  Jii.l 

I'lilMniv  <!  riinicnjli-n  .>  inik-M  .iir.  vim  li  1.11. 

*l.-rd> 

.ltre.1  him  niimlill-.     He  M-.kf  M  .immi.hn  will. 

A  liiriua<  Sie,  uocoinci.iu<,prmr»j  (iTriuli 

ton*!''  '  '*""      **      ''"''^''  ''"'" 

tliiiii.ni>„l.l>iUiU.>iiiiu." 

A -e>k  oflidnu.  mend  hecomei  1  r.«. 

wh',k  he  would  «ccn  hu  „>ih„7S  r^TTie  k. 

Iin.1  tiFiiiin.r.,   iJM.l  mi  .iiuilif;   lu.l  il.u-  iini- 

Icnll;  ihvir  Mhi.l  (Mihciliihiii  ejiili.  ...ii  H..-  UN. 

The  ^Mrmiimu.  iniic  liu  jivnjT'l  thv  Hi'k- 

Ifflint  jr.hiii'lmp, 

MASVSCRIPTS  ASD  BOOKS. 


phou,    Ola 'biiorc  Ibc  dour  Df  bii  pubiiihcT.    The  put>- 


CruiincT  kept   i6k  KCOltd  rruiT 

wboK  niftory  »  »  muctotcti 
What  btindnea  lo  njpp<jAc  bim  i. 

CTKlcd  Arcbhirih>p  uniieF  ihe  Motrun  poQiifl,  vbos 
The  diiine  i-enpmcc  bunt  on   Ihu  lycophinti 

Bdnt  bT  tbe  credit  of  tcTeral  prioce^k  broke  loa 


pew  md  the  pnncn  »bo  i^upportcd  him.     No- j  then  the  most  fuhidiubLe  wiu  of  Fnn. 
thing  equib  the  ra^  ol  IhU  phrenetic  mjn,  vho  I      1[  vu  unth  glut  difEculIy  that  H 

dHluTUtiDnt,  bill  who  in'U  for  putting  jll  in  pnc-  I  threw  down  hu  pATt  Kith  Ml  «Ib  of 

muijing  puWkly   Cithciinc   dc  Boiel  i  nun.  |     A  jwmphlo  puf-'--'    -   ■■- 
convent).    He  had  ptepited  the   mioib  of  the  I  Ihe  Method  of  fon 


e    lejr    15J8,  en- 


wbicb  be  entitled  "Eumplei  of  Ihe  PipUlicil    btenryintciLiRFncc,  and  liu follows: — 
Doctrine  aad  Hieokin'/'^  w'hich  he  condemns  I     "  We  have  Enottn  books/' vn aui  writcTp "  (hal 
tbe  praifd  which  aJl  the  HinQ  had  given  lo  con- ;  in  the  hk.  have  been  damneJ,  at  well  *$  mhcD 
dnence.    Me   died  At  length  quietly  enough^  in  |  whifh  fetm  lo  be  w,  Bince,  titer  their  appearance 

ing  tbe  renibk  eflectt  oi  hit  vengeance  to  another   witnen  the    *  Parulisc   LoA '   of   the    lamDu« 

Ctanmer,  who  prriabed  at  the  Make»  theie  Fai 


bi9  Hiia. ;  aiid  he  and  Robert   Dodlley  agnred  in 
\  manner  of  which  neither  rtpertled. 


aellert  to  pnrchue  tbe  ua.,  h 


nihent  bookieUen,  during  the  ^act 


ipcculatii?    turn,   engaged    In    Ihi*    publication. 

ilj  »nd  Ihe  bookaeller*  are  accumukaiing  monc;_ 
dupotcd  '  every  hour  b^  editioiu  of  Ihit  work  in  all  ibapct. 


THE  TURKiail SPi\~8FEmER.  JQNSOS,  AHl)  SIIAKSPEARE. 


flC  prehuble  Itlrtuy  Ad- 


irentaic."  It  \t,  perhapi,  u 
vhile  Ibc  fine  compmirioiii  of  seiiiuii  And  (he 
eUbflrite  Lbboun  of  tmidiliDn  irc  doancd  to  m- 
comKr  IbcK  oUuclei  to  fame,  aiul  nn«  m 
bill  (Ugfatly  ninunennd,  worb  of  anoUlET  di- 

ner  1  U  the  nent  uk  eT  i  bnolLicllir,  Ihe  cop)'- 
ijghl  dT  "  V]ic>  Spclling-boak  "  wu  lolil  *I  tbe 
ciuHTnoiu  ptice  of  i.itioJ.  ^    wLth  ad  Annuity  of 


Whativca  miv  be  the  ieltztt  of  the  "  Turklih 
Sp]',"  the  Author  hu  ibuwn  anr  uncommon  mehl. 
1^  hiving  opened  a  new  tpccia  of  campnitlan, 

Infbiiut  luccen,  ifwe  eicept  (he  chirmin^  '■  fa- 

■w"  li  *  book  which  hAi  drllKhtcd  ua  in  nut 
childhood,  ind  lo  which  we  an  mill  lenr  with 

Id  ilirei'pjrtiof  hi.  jKiiren. 

lu  Bnweli'i  "  Life  of  Johmnn  '■  n  llm  diilai;ne 
coocemiDK  Ihe  wriwr  nF  ihe  "TiiihiTh   ilti." 

hmikT*''}  T' "  i      iw"^       itle?''i' '  i",^"""' 

Smun,'  we  find  that  the  reil  wis  imUltii  hv  phi 
aiAli,  al  Iwo  gulDciA  i  itaeei,  under  the  lUieition 
of  Ut.  WidjKii^'.-- 

indeed,  gins  nme  informAIIon  In  a  pciy  Vinx 
iv  reuoni  wbkh  he  imanuAIn,  llul  inf  BriX- 
"  TurliWi  Spy."  ThlA  man  probiJily  im  en- 
Ai  rhey  appcARd  al  the  rate  oT  <gi.  per  ^ecl. 

puUbhine,  ADd  ihal  he  ii  u  lltllu  known  al  ptv- 

The  ingcnlaui  writer  of  the  TurkMi  Spy  ii 

Spy  it  juM  a>  rc^  I  perwnige  a9  Cid  Himet, 
from  whom  CenAOtn  Hyi  he  had  bii  "  Hbittiry 
«rn —  I.,.: — ^  ..    u 1..J  . 'tt^Htaiti 

the  "  Hinoiy  of 

-'"ihle  Ibr  man) 

CO  reride  Al  Pirii  i  in  tllit  AiaemtilA«n  of  tiile 
and  Imnry  bit  lolenli  procured  him  patron*.  II 
wa>  dutins  tab  iBldEna  Ibere  Ibai  be  produced 
bii "  Tnrkuh  Spy."  By  ihi.  ingenioui  conirirantt 
he  gave  the  hinoiy  of  Ihe  Iam  A«e.  He  dijcoven 
a  iih  memory,  and  a  iiieiy  itnaginalioni  hut 
entice  liavc  laid  that  Iw  toucbca  everything,  and 
penetritei  nothing.    Hii  tnn  itaree  voiumEi  giraliy 


ntertor.    Pintarch.  Seneca. 

and  PUny  were  hi.  tav 

nurite  aulbon.      He  ii.'ed 

sesssrs 

rity  i  and  in  the  Ian  yean 

nalire  countr)',  wheti  he 

died  in  i«9}. 

Ant  particulart  of  thia 

were  n»l  A.  Ibey  «m 

iowing  cnrioiu  ecrtili 

John  Paul  Harana.  author 

of  amanuKTipt  IlaJiao  voiume,  ensiled  ■  fSi- 

plaraUr,   Turc-,,    lumt 

(r™,-  acknowledge  ihal 

MN^  Ch^n^nlkr,  a^po 

nled  hy  .he  Lord  Chan- 

^^^for^prtnUng^tta  uld 

mAniWTipt,   hut    on 

PA.«^     The  Brat  btffnni-S.  »«■-    By.lhi.  1 

promue  In  luppKM  from  the  lud  manuK-npl  Ibe 

out  agreeing  to  thi<.  Ibe 

«id  certilicate  would 

nut  linve  iKen  granted  lo 

me  hv  Ibe  aaid  Mr.  Ci 

arpentlci  j  and  for  luirty 
aeVnoKiedgc  to  be  true, 

of  the  ahavc.  which 

"  the  licginnin);  of  rAii  klter  ii  wanlinK  In  the 

ItatiAn  iraniLnion  i  tlie  irlJE'iu'  pap"  *r'"(C  Ita." 

Nu  one  has  yet  ukcu  the  p.doi  Co  nlncn-e  Ihe 


diipuleil 


,  ID  have  been  otiginaiiy  u 
It  praliablv  wai  6rtl  rutliiiifil  • 
KngliJi  'TuAiili  Spjr  dilfer 


SPENSER,  JONSIIN,  AND  SHAKSPE.MIE, 

QaI  must  not  be  paavd  by.  The  criilcimu  of 
imei  elldl  a  lay  of  intelligoice,  which  later  o^- 

are  thmi|iht  hy  the  tgnniintto  he  N/miiiui,  known 
by  the  leAmcd  In  be  ^lanlif  i,  to  fail  book ;  winch, 
-otwiIbitinding,had  been  man  •ALUAi.A.lf  man 


BK.V  JOXSO.f.  FELTIlAiT,  ASD  BAXDOIPIT. 


■boTi:  <bc  rtlgi  [which  an  nelv  lUUcd  virh 
ilniiiiiTlirtKahwirnili;.  mil  loik  not  umOUUK 
Jill  ilri^  41  n  tfae  rrfiiiarf,  mbi'il  bcbilj  Uk 
iAQdJ  time  1  TtA.  IhL-v  viU  cn4urc  reai^TiiE  mt 
rnoj  B  ciihLT  lOAauiir  or  lartiLaK  >R  luh'lnn- 
■ble  in  nui  nilinn.     II  111.  UHrr  he  m4  m  inili.- 

iM  'wiH.  'la-fM  uha  dure  la  be  olil  itaouhl. 


Dvc  h  not  m.uk',  Iwi  Ivm  a  imVlT.     Imlnil  li 

ifrtfflqirJi  aiii  DDt  pr>li4tw4l  fiv  inv  )ipiil3rj%  In 
mpjiaicd  iDil  unooilicil,  I'ivn  aiihevanulu 
QUI  of  tlK  cjilli,  u  Kiisn  iUcU  wa>  all  Ihi:  ■■ 


ifUtVfjir.wiih  fD  Itiie^iiti  nun-af-wir,  1.1KT  ir 

jBil  qEe  iSrUII^  Bl  ■«  iinii.il.  by  diL-  quii'kiKu 

Ha  J  tlMV  "  Wil-uxnlLiti "  betuccn  Shikipcari 


BEN  JOKSOS,  PELTHAM,  A 
Btl   lOSfOX.   like  man    cekbniird   «it 

niBD,(  tbc  KalDD  at  Fittiimui  Kilh  a  di 
axptre.  Ttut  he  w  not  alvayi  «uccev 
h'»  thulrital  (DinpUMrlgiu  l>  oidcnt  Imi 

subll^  Id  ll!i<  he  lili~l!!^'iinitiit^  b?  tU 
I  hiTC  nllalcd  the  (allminii  Three  utirii 
wTiim  wbcn  Ihc  irreiKuin  nl'  hli  "  X:.':r-I 
nr  linhi  Miirl,"  icjnnlr  cuipi^iatea  the  ir 
dhpusilinnof  DurpoL-i. 

1K\'eF    avEed,  but    most    nc^rli^fcntL^    jiltl'i 

jnti,  itig.  How  at  laii  Kt  it  lihnli  t 
TBden,  hu  imeit)'*!  KTvaiiii  and  >ubieit>, 

At  the  end  nl  tbii  ptav  be  pgbhihcd  tl; 
kmitiii  Ode,  ID  wbi<:h  he  thmlcDi  In  qu 

viilgu  m-ure  ii^u'phy,  l*^i  "hi.°rDUi 

"  Crnnc.  Itfjre  the  loatheJ  ^U^, 
And  the  inare  Loatbotnc  ^e ; 

IndiUng  aua  anal|[tdng  cnrr  dav 

SajneLliii4E  tMy  cid  1  }dj)'. 


Unwchah>i-< 


unlly  ig  lb;  fr 


TtincdjC,  fmin  cmiKn: 

Liun«  iiiditi  HHU  wuKii  had  p«Vd  IWIWHIt  thcTT 

and  Dpin)  on*  4»n  hi'  AUcjnioBriiiiiEeihiiiab 
]ec1.    BIH4MPC4III.  did  not  take  Ihi*  talk  in  ^no 
■line  i  bul  loK-on  put  in  I'nd  lo  Ibi    ~  " 
wnii'lie  jein3tklti/,-^hi»  aflairc  iwedei 
ientlt>n ;  rau  5tole  k  fmin  Hta,  no  dou 


ffti,  ind  the  dinger  irhKh  litciarr  h 
incur  hi-  iDLb  nefarioui  pmnim. 


'■>  ,' 


s"!  i.TuA«,  and  UHly  i«  hit  I 


j)Ex  joxsox,  Ff:Lr/r 

4.1/,  A.\/>  llAShOl.l-ll.                       I4J 

Are  ll.illKt  ■••  hi  Un,-Mt  an  .ibk'  br.lln. 

Cm  fced  on  Dm,  »nd  n't  tn  i  i>i.t  ii.tt:c-.]i.ihw 

A>  Ibe.  'I..tlil.w>  •lain 

Tke  rtiuii.  udtbcMjEiMinmhtttrio  'looi  jwer.;. 

TbiD-  all  Ih'  UBhkely  pi.  J,  and  d..  dri.k-a« 

Wlh  IhnrTuul  comit  wi.t% 

uCuw  T^tVllI^'H'^'  lai.1 

Wrongbl  upon  twmty  blockj : 

BefcireaeliambeiHnaid 

Which,  «  A.?™  Km.  UKl  tum-d,  and  pitchd 

Uiiroune  M  weiKb'd,*  v>  mudil  have  <cnM  of  old 

CBOBgh, 

For  wlioot.,  when  Ibey  of  hne  and  nlont  told. 

•~.'5r'" -""•"■"■  ""-'■'■ 

sliolildju.'hinKTii  be.  and  kmnt-t 

■■S'£f.-,ESITi 

le.lse,  there  ure  pli^  wbu  «,»n  t™  drudge 
For  it  w:S)-<:' ""]*"« 

Oi  tbiiK  own  Horace,  ot  Anaunran'.  li  k  ; 

Not  only  |»elV  Kkkt  lini-i,  liul  nitx, 

W»rm  lb«  h)-  Pindii>  «re  ; 

.;jp."ior- 

And,  thQ-  thy  nerve,  be  .Jirui.k,  -nd  Wowl  bv 

eoli^ 

En  vran  havr  nude  Ihee  old. 
Strike  thit  diKblntuI  heat 

s;s3SsJsS'ZKi„. 

At  nirioot  (^«l^  ind  enviom  nl  tliy  «nin. 

May,  bludiixg,  »»^i.  no  pj.y.  in  thy  l^^.n* 

evr  Iiutdit  w  bfikl  amnmiiig  •*  tlie  liayi 

"  Bui  when  Ihn-  heir  thee  unu 
TheElotklorihvKini;, 

Hii  m  tn  <i«ir«ul  be  jn.i  »e  o'er  men ! 

IW  »cb  ."fliS-inike  to  p«*^  thiir  [.mer.. 

Anil  prwpeii  not ;  for  knnw. 

Ajihevihillci>bkcour., 
Inunnilof  Be^m.orwui, 

I'.in  lie  dialainlul  1  anil  wlw  dam  tn  prove 

A  rape  on  liet  iball  gather  icora,— iinl  Ion:. 

No  harp  ere  hit  the  nan. 

"Uavelbenlhii  humour  .ain. 

And  nwnii  Charlei  hli  vhariot  'Iwn.-  hi.  wiin." 

Where  ■dlK'uucrit,  hkI  ehi  Jer  of  tin:  l>lu»!, 

Thti  M*^<tnl>]  Ode.  u   Ui^biine   calk  it. 

Ki'lipcvhalehehiiiaKli 
Then,  it  ybu  pfea^  thtw  npiunn  bijii  to  bAuli, 

wa  avwned  l>>  Ouvn  fVUltJw.  author  iif  tlic 

niierenf  yuu  Ixntt «  uiw h : 

great  utinc  accrtnn  Ibe  telort  courlmui.     Hw 

ehuKter  of  Ibu  poet  ihould  be  allLndcd  to  ■— 

'liUil'ieu.'wldpuMilnu; 

Slat''.  *(. 

situx  braver  Ihime'iw  pliirhut  etcr  uw." 

"*"  *"  "^^k^En' f°nM°F  ""  ' 

Rindidph.  .me  ol   Ihe  adopled  pmihal  miu.  of 

Jonwd.  >ddn.-«<i  iiim  with  all  Ihat  uan.ith  ot 
pntLh.l  alh-ction  which  a  min  oi  iwniu.  ihoukl 
Ea.-«fi:ltD«th.ocea«o. 

That  a  tale  soel,  iii>R  eonlempt  onte  thrown, 

I  wmia  h^wfal  doVcr, 

"  M  ^»l!£'ri  (»  Mr.  lun  J-xu-'l  lUi,  n  f  rmadi 

Or  piKBI.  you  luul  power 

»rin  mi  I.  (tJim.  *!-„.>. 

Finn  all  to  ijpe  a  judgment.     UftiufT.cc. 

Had  )'au  b«n  modrU.  y'ad  been  grantud  wl«. 

"  Til  known  vou  can  da  well. 

"Ben,  donollejvetheitme 

AndHiatyoudoeucll 

'Cai^-Iiaaloalhwineap', 

Ai  a  mulMor  j  hut  when  Ihinei  require 

A  Rcnlos  «»■«»• 

When  they  .hall  hear  it  told 

NM  khidled  heiMoftn  by  aha  p»ns 

They  frighted  thee :  8UBd  hi,^,  a  » Ihy  rauw ; 

Al  oft  r'ave  wanted  bialiu 
AndaRloMhkelhtwhile, 

'     '^Theirhb.l.thyaw^u-c. 
Mo«in«w«e.h^j;Si,,. 

So  Ibou  fnr  lb™,  and  tln:y  for'  thee  were  liom  i 

A>  yon  have  levell'd  right; 
Vet  11  men  nwch  not  Ibinfi.  .pMrjpb.1, 

You  bellow,  rare,  and  ipattvr  round  )  our  gall. 

"Jug,Piefee.Peek.Fl>-,f.nd.ll 

.'■New   Inn."    Act  iii.   S.™   a.  -  Au   ie. 

•  Ht  had  Ibe  pnlqf  il  that  timt. 

^Trili.  break  wa>  purpoKly  dcifned  by  the 

t  Tt>e  nama  or  Kv-cnl  of  Jomont  Dramilli 

poet,  w  e>tpo«  that  ilngulai  one  .n  Beu-.  ll.inl 

1 


I  ,  '. 


/•■  W"    I  \/'  /.I 


"  "A 


.1 


<>l   will-. it,  uiil  {'(iiir  no  iimrv, 
Bci.iuso  ilu-ir  b.icoii-l trains  h.til  such  .1  ta^te 

As  more  cluii(;ht  in  ina^t : 
No  ]  set  tlicni  torth  .1  l>oartl  ot  daintioi,  tull 
A>  tliy  bc5t  inuM:  can  cull ; 

WliiNt  they  the  \ihile  do  pine 

And  thint,  midst  .ill  their  wine. 
What  j^reater  plagite  can  hell  itself  dctisie, 
Than  to  Ik*  willing  thus  to  tantalize  } 

III. 
"  Thou  canst  not  Hnd  thcin  stuff. 
That  will  l>e  bail  enoui^h 
To  please  their  pallatcs  :  let  'cm  theni  refuse, 

K>r  some  P>e-corner  muiie; 
She  is  too  lair  an  ho<iteN>,  'twere  a  xin 

For  them  to  like  thine  Inn  : 
"Pwas  made  to  entertain 
Guests  ot  a  noi)ler  ntrain  ; 
Yet,  if  they  will  have  any  of  the  store. 
Give  them  s<ime  !K:raps,  and  send  them  from  thy 
do  re. 

IV. 

"  And  let  thow  things  in  plu>h 
Till  they  )>c  taui^ht  to  bliiih, 
Like  what  they  will,  and  mure  contented  l>e 
With  what  Broom*  swept  from  thee. 

I  know  thy  worth,  and  that  thy  lolly  strains 

Write  nc/t  to  cloaths,  but  braint : 
But  thy  ti^dt  spleen  doth  rite, 
'Cause  moles  will  have  no  e\es  : 
This  only  in  my  Ben  I  faulty  tind, 
HcS  an(;ry  they'll  not  sec  him  that  are  blind. 

V. 

*•  Why  shouM  the  scene  Ik*  mule 
'Cause  thou  canst  touch  the  lute 
And  string;  thy  Florace  ?     Let  each  Mum.*  of  nine 

Claim  thee,  ami  say,  th'  art  mine. 
'Twere  (ond,  to  let  all  other  tlames  expire. 
To  sit  by  Pindar's  tire  : 
For  by  so  strange  ni*(;lect 
I  sIkjuUI  niysclt  suspect 
Thy  paSie  +  wtre  as  well  thy  brain's  diMrave, 

II  th(-\    tould    sliake    thy  muse  whiLh  way  they 

please. 

VI. 

"  Ami  tlio'  thou  well  canst  sinjj 

'I  III-  I'.li tries  oi  thy  Kiiii'„ 
And  on  the  ^^llI^s  ui  verse  tiis  i  liariot  l>ear 

'I  fi  heaven,  and  tix  it  there  ; 
Yet  let  th>  iiiuse  a»  well  aoine  raptures  raise 
To  please  him,  a^  to  praise. 

I  Wiiuld  not  have  tliee  chu»c 

Only  a  treble  muse ; 
But  h.Y%e  this  en\ious,  ignorant  af;e  tn  know, 
'I  lutu  tliat  canst  sing  x>  iiigh,  canst  reach  as  low." 

*  His  man.  Richard  Broome,  wrote  with  success 
MTveral  comedies.  He  had  l>eeu  the  amanuensis 
or  attendant  of  Jon!U)n.  11ic  epi);ram  made 
a^mt  Pope  for  the  assistance  W.  Broome  gave 
him  appean  to  havel)eca  borrowed  from  this  pun. 
Johnson  hasi  inserted  it  in  **  Broome's  Life." 
t  He  bad  tlie  palsy  at  that  time. 


Ir  surprises  «iue  to  tind  .icniuij^  tt;c  t.tcrkr>' 
Itahans  the  merits  of  Ariosto  mmt  kc*enly  dii* 
puted  :  slaves  to  cl:u»ical  authority,  they  bend 
down  to  the  majestic  regubrity  of  Ta»o.  Yet  the 
father  of  I'asso,  before  his'  son  had  rivalled 
the  romantic  Ariosto,  describes  in  a  letter  ttie 
ettecls  of  the  "  Orlando  "  on  the  people:— ^  There 
is  no  man  of  learning,  no  mechanic,  no  lad,  bo 
girl,  no  old  man,  who  are  satisfied  to  read  tke 
'  Orlando  Kurioso  '  once.  This  poem  lerret  »the 
solace  of  the  traveller,  who  Utigiied  on  his  jouncf 
deceives  his  latitude  by  chanting  some  octarei  of 
this  poem.  You  may  hear  them  sing  these  itauai 
in  the  streets  and  in  the  fields  e%'er>*  day."  One 
would  have  expected  that  Ariosto'  w*oukl  halt 
been  the  favourite  of  the  people,  And  Towo  of  the 
critics.  But  in  Venice  the  g«>ndolien,  and  othcn, 
sin^  passages  which  arc  generally  taken  from  Tasto. 
and  rarely  fnmi  Anosto.  A  ditlerent  fate,  I 
imagined,  woulil  have  attended  the  poet  who  hai 
l)ccn  distinguished  by  the  epithet  ol"  7fu  Dh/uu." 
I  have  tH.*en  tolil  by  aii  Italian  man  of  letters  thai 
this  circumstance' arose  from  the  relation  which 
Tasso's  poem  Itears  to  Turkish  atlairs ;  as  manv  ot 
the  common  people  have  passed  into  Tuney, 
either  by  chance  or  by  war.  Besides  the  toog 
antipathy  existing  between  the  Venetians  and  the 
I'urks  gave  additional  force  to  the  patriotic  poetiy 
oi  TasMi.  We  cannot  Uiast  of  any  MmiUr  poenis. 
Thus  it  was  that  the  people  of  Greece  and  Ionia 
sang  the  p(K>ms  of  Homer. 

'1  he  Academia  dclLi  Crusca  gave  a  public  pre" 
ference  t<»  Ariosto.  Tliis  irritated  certain  critics* 
and  none  more  than  Chapelain,  who  could  ttuti 
the  regularity  ot  Tassu,  but  not  Ac/  the  **  bravv 
disoriier  "  ot  Ariosto.  He  could  not  apprm'e  <il 
those  w  ritem, 

••  Who  snatch  a  grace  beyond  the  reach  of  art,* 

"  I  thank  you."  he  writes, "  for  the  vmnet  which 
your  indignation  dictated,  at  the  Academy's  pre- 
ference  of  Ariosto  to  Tasso.  'Hiis  judgment  is 
overthrown  by  the  lonicMUons  of  many  of  the 
Crusiuntit  my  assfKiates.  It  would  l>e  tedious  to 
enter  into  its  discussion  ;  but  it  was  passion  and 
not  ei|uity  that  prompted  that  decision.  We 
confess,  tliat  as  to  what  concerns  indention  and 
purity  oi  langiLige,  Ariosto  has  emiiieiitl>-  the 
advantage  fiver  Tasso;  but  majesty,  pomp,  num- 
tiers,  and  a  sti  le  truh  sublime,  united  to  rcguUrity 
ot  design,  raiMT  the  Litter  so  much  aliuve  the  other, 
that  no  comparison  can  fairly  exist." 

What  ChapeLiin  sa\  s  is  perhaps  juit ;  though  I 
did  not  know  that  Ariosto's  language  was  purer 
tluii  Tasao's. 

Dr.  Cocchi,  the  great  Italian  critic,  compared 
'*  Ariosto's  poem  to  the  richer  kind  of  harleijuin's 
habit,  made  up  of  pieces  ot  the  ver>'  best  silk,  and 
of  the  livelic*st  colours.  The  parts  of  it  are  many 
of  them  mur^  b^autifut  than  in  Tasso's  poem,  but 
the  whole  in  TasHo  is  without  comparison  more  of 
a  piece  and  l)tftttT  made."  The  critic  was  extri- 
cating himself  as  ufely  as  he  could  out  of  thb 
critical  dilemma ;  for  the  disputes  were  then  so  vio- 
lent, that  I  think  one  of  the  disputants  took  to  \m 
bed,  and  was  said  to  have  died  of  Ariosto  and  Tasso. 


lught  ID  be  mtdc  between  theie  grt j 

irirgOvid'i  "  McUmorphoio ' 

-ij  ...  .!._,  ,j,  ^^-^  diflereo 


Rgiklar  epic.    Tiscii  designs  required  dMi 


vd  dittinct  per. 
not  eiubkdbf 


■■;c;' 


kcncd  Ihc  vengeance  of  Boilcj 


my  be  led  to  ttiink  that  Bolleiu  wu 

-  .lUttk  chinged  my  opinion,  that  on  • 
il  UKIv  of  Thu,  I  WIS  Sony  Ihit  1  tud 
B  imply  expUined  myteJf  on  tha  subject 
pvpiic  of  my  TtflectLDIU  on  '  [nOneinui.'  1  shoald 
'e  begun  by  ackDowLedging  inat  Tssno  had  a 
lUme  gfniui,  of  great  compiis,  wiili  happy 
lotittons  for  the  bigher  poetry-    But  when  T 

'e  thovn    that  judKioua   dlsceminent    rarely 


ongett  pat. 

excite,  ffcqucnlly  he  degenerates  Jnlo  wittichrna, 
wfaicb  ibrupUy  destrtw  the  |>athctlc.  Tbll  he 
abounds  with  Images  of  loo  florid  a  kind ;  aftrlni 

hardly  tx  supportable  In  his  'Aminta-'  So  thai 
all  this  opposed  to  the  giavily.  Die  lobilety,  tbe 
mijeity  of  Virgil,  what  u  it  but  tinsel  compared 

It  must  be  acknowledged  thai  this  panap,  whirh 


&! 


onymoui  gmtleman  ] 
ling  pockef^booh. 


the  gondolier  returning  with  him  Id  the  city :  "  he 

singing  all  the  way  the  twenty-iiith  itania  of  the 
siitetnthcintooflheJirusalem  DeJiveaeJ."    The 


etcnluilly  by  Rousseau,  to  whose  »ngi  it  IS 
pnniert  i  It  hu  pre^rly  nDn|^odmus  mnvetnent, 

and  the  canto  ligurato ;  it  ipproaches  to  the  fbt- 
met  by  recitativicsl  declamation,  and  to  the  latter 
by  paaan  and  counc,  by  which  one  lyllable  1> 
detiin^and  embelDstaed. 

song :  when  he  had  ended  his  itroi^c  the  other 


Ames  on  InothcT  note,  lad  indeed  crhanBd  tbe 
munciation  of  the  whole  Miophc,  ai  the  ot^ect  of 

:cUcncy  of  Ihtir  singing  consist  in  the  force  of 
Lbeir  TOice:  one  seemed  de^fous  of  conqueriDg 
the  other  by  the  strength  of  hi>  luup,  and  so  fit 
mm  Reciting  delighl  from  this  scene  (shut  up  as 
[was  in  tbe  boa  of  the  gondolij,  I  found  mytelf  in 
I  very  unpleasant  aituslion. 
My  eompiniuu,  lo  whom  I  ctnnmnnicated  this 

zredit  of  bis  countrymen,  assure  nve  that  this 

d^ince.    Accordingly  we  got  our  upon  the  shore, 

I.     They  now  bepn  to  sing   agairist   one 

fgin   his  pan,     I    rtequenlly   stood    ilill  and 
tcncd  10  (he  one  and  (o  the  other- 


buildings,  the  ipiendonr  of  tb* 


I4A                                                         BAT  LB.                                                               1 

q4TJB  Utba  ud  tbiH»r,  IncRunl  tbc  Hnkiog 

•  Auwer  U  J«q  IH^W/  .nd  .old  him  th.1  be  wu 

pon-Suity  o(  Ih.  mm,  ™l  ™M«  ^  U™  d.- 

ammoca  It  wa  car  u  mutt- the  chincter  o( 

U   niiti  pctfccUy  «])   with   inVdlc   loUtiiy 
nuri«T.  Iving  .<  length  in  hi>  v»d  .1  n«  on 

iftei  lie  died."     HilducucwBio  hemlilK>con- 

lumHion,  (Ud  bit  decline  mus  hire  been  gnduil ; 

•onlFwfail  illmimi   by    tht   longi  Jnd    piKtiol 

hi>  UA  boui  1  lul,  -ith  Bjyle,  ii  •>■  deUh  Uooe 

uonn  he  hu  m  mmiaiT.    Ht  often  nits  hit 

Tttc  imubUity  ofgeDiiuiifonablrcbiTKteRied 

hv  .hii  cireunuluce  in  hb  lluruy  life.    Wben  ■ 

lavimed  on  him  the  mo.t  Bjt.etiBg  eulogiiimi. 

wh.ch  the  «lii£iiig  of  the  oin  ii  toieely  to  be 

He  ii  the  hero  of  hit  "  Republic  of  Letieu."' 
BnmilT  luccceded  to  ftiendihip;  Jurieu  b  then 

Ai  M  dimnce  he  heui  u»tber,  peitups  Dtterly 
iiurh  ihe  two  ttringeij :  ie  becomet  the  re«poo- 

^la  bluoden,  pilpihle  conQ>dic.ionjp  ind  incon- 

■«  echo  to  the  focmrt.  lod  einB  hlmicU  to  be 

heirdubehadheirdthecxber.     Byiueilcon- 

Tcntlan  Utey  iltenute  vene  (or  nne ;  though  the 
«zg  .houLi  la.  the  whole  nigh.  thr^S^they 

when    .he    sime    Rubnui   joined    hii    •drmaiy 
Origeu.  he  oiled  him  one  of  the  mc«  ignonni  1 

Ai  I  logitiin  Bi>le  hid  do  lupenor :  the  belt 

Bijle  tnide  long  ind  ckw  irguiDenD  to  ihovr 

Tliii  i-oul  perfonnuce  hddiU  bcK  i.  a  gnu 

Uiu  Li  Hone  ie  v.yei  never  could  hive  bem  • 

prece;:tor  to  the  king ;  bul  ill  hii  rcuoningi  ire 

DH.    11  1)  plaintlre,  but  not  diuul  in  ID  lound. 

of.heAc.demy.byPelaBn"' 
Banige  aiJof  fliyle,  thit  h,  «*J  rmil.  (,  ha 

ud  It  tiinei  it  i>  KUKir  pnsibk  to  leFniu  ftnni 

A-t":    He  meint  .hi.  he  -n  oxi  •  book  more 

i-ety  ilelicitely  oraDiied  penon,  uM  quite  uuei- 

thin  be  reid  i.  1  and  that  be  hid  Ibe  in  of  ilwiyi 

t  •»  uM.hu  the  «n.en  o<  Lifo.  .he  long  row 

Tbere  ire  beivy  houn  in  which  Ihe  mind  of  i 

of  i<Ui.d>  <h.>  djiidet   U>e  AdriXK    rmn.    d>e 

ficulHei  Use  ill  .heir  claUtily,  ind  wben  noAing 

but   <he  »irpki<  idian.  .^e   idipted  lo  Iheil 

Aihlng  out  «  KJ.  lo  Bl  ilong  Ihe  ihore  in  ttie 

eteningi  ind  votiltnre  tboe  lonp,  and  coniLnue 

told  of  Biyle.  thit  be  wovid  rrequentlr  wap  him- 

Klf    .n    hi«    cloik.  ind  baKn*  to  ^c«   where 

difhnguiih  the  rapoua  ol  'h«  own  huitund  u  i 

tnouotcbink!  lemledi  ind  .bil  thii  wu  one  of 

primle  doei  thu  nng  tho*  lOeM  hc;r,  Uiin  the  c»ll 

of    1   mliUT)-   pereon   ullered    fir   ind   wide.  III! 

chinner  of  Biyle ;  it  only  provo  thu  the  write. 

uolher  equ^l^  difpned  thaU  heir  uid  uuwe. 

heuty  kmging.  which  ye.  it  ei-e.y  momcu.  neirer 

tau   conrinued  the   ipecuUtion,  by  giving  two 

innreidng  .necdoleL    ■- The  obi^Ition   coo- 
cenanj  'heiyy  honn,-  ind  the  wait  ol  elaMcity 

the  mind  i>  filigued,  ind  tbe  inennon  blilnted  by 

cioui  mignBiie  Sir  John  Fielding  i  wbo,  when 

tiUe   thiD  Bavll    Hi>   tau   hour  eihlEln   U.e 

fiugued  Hilh  inending  lo  compliciled  cues,  ind 

ae  Ibnnulible  .pproich  of  deuh.    1  h.ve  hu 

*•  «™iog  t™»ling  hi.  deieue,  hiving  iiudied 

plan,  a  ciiued  hytbegreuateniion  of  London. 

I 


CER  VASTES.^MAGLTABECHL 


1^7 


'be  (the  physcUn)  iPtmld  not  hare  been  able 
rit  many  patients  to  any  pnrpoae,  tl  they  had 
9d  nearer  to  each  odiier;  as  he  ^ouid  have 
o  time  either  to  think,  ir  to  rest  his  mind.' " 
r  excellent  lo^cian  was  little  accustomed  to 
ed  society ;  his  life  wa*  pasKd  in  study.  H  ^ 
och  an  infantine  dmpkcity  in  hb  nature, 
e  VDold  speak  on  anatomical  iubjects  before 
dies  with  as  ranch  freedom  as  before  snr- 
When  they  inchned  their  ^ycs  to  the 
i,  and  while  some  nren  blushed,  he  would 
sqaire  if  what  tie  spoke  was  indecent  ?  and, 
told  so,  he  smiled  and  ^topped.  His  habits 
veie,  however,  extremely  pure;  he  probably 
Bself  littte  kvmrc  **  to  fall  into  Umptatun." 
e  knew  nothing  of  geometry,  and  as  Le 
iolbnns  us,  acknowMgcd  that  he  could 
oomprdumd  the  demonstration  of  the  first 
n  ro  Euclid.  Lc  Clerc,  however,  was  a 
>  Bayk;  with  greater  industry  and  more 
£  learning,  but  with  very  inferior  powers  of 
ng  and  philosophy.  Both  of  these  great 
^  Bke  our  Locke,'  were  destitute  of  fine 
id  poetical  discernment. 
n  Pagon,  an  eminent  ph%-sician,  was  con- 
m  the  iUiiess  of  our  student,  he  only  pre- 
a  paiticnlar  regimen,  without  the  use  of 
ae.  He  closed  his  consultation  by  a  com- 
t  remarkable  for  its  felicity.  "I  ardently 
se  could  qtarc  this  great  man  all  this  :on- 
and  that  it  were  possible  to  find  a  remedy 
olar,  as  the  merit  of  him  for  whom  it  is 

ire  has  said  that  Bayle  confessed  he  wo«ld 
ve  made  his  Dictionary  exceed  a  folio 
,  had  he  written  only  for  himself,  and  not 
booksellers.  This  Dictionary-,  with  all  its 
bolts,  is  a  stupendous  work,  which  must 
h  literature  itself. 

other  productions  have  claims  on  our 
o :  b  it  possible  to  read  his  "  Thoughts  on 
'*  and  complain  of  lassitude  ?  His  "  Nou- 
f  U  lUpublique  des  Lettres  "  are  a  model  of 
aJ  criticism,  lively,  neat,  and  full  of  that 
h  which  gives  a  piqnanc}-  to  the  disquist- 
criticism.  The  mind  of  Bayle  is  always 
but,  what  is  still  more  enga^ng,  it  com- 
tes  entertainment.  His  sceptre  of  criticism 
Uisbcd  by  flowers. 


CERVANTES. 


>  In  the  Segraisiana  this  authentic  anecdote 
ing  the  inimitable  Cer>-antes. 

u  Boulay  accompanied  the  French  ambas- 

>  Spain,  when  Cervantes  was  yet  alive.  He 
me,  that  the  ambassador  one  day  compli- 
Cervantcs  on  the  great  reputation  he  had 

1  by  his  Don  Quixote ;  and  that  Cervantes 
ed  in  his  car,  "Had  it  not  been  for  the 
ioD,  I  shoula  have  made  my  book  much 
itertaining." 

ntes,  at  the  battle  of  Lepanto,  was  wounded 
laved.  He  has  given  hu  own  history  in 
jtxote.  He  was  known  at  the  court  of 
ut  be  did  not  receive  those  favours  which 
isve  been  expected ;  he  was  neglected. — 


His  first  volume  is  the  finest ;  and  his  design  waa 
to  have  finished  there ;  but  he  could  not  resist  the 
importunities  of  hb  fhends,  who  engaged  him  to 
make  i  second,  which  has  not  the  same  force, 
ahbough  It  has  many  q>lendid  passages. 

We  nave  lost  many  good  things  of  Cervantes, 
and  other  wnten,  throu^  the  tribunal  of  religion 
and  dulness.  One  Aonius  Palearius  was  sensible 
of  thb;  and  said,  "that  the  Inquisition  was  a 
poniard  aimed  at  the  throat  of  literature."  The 
image  is  striking,  and  the  obser^-ation  just;  but 
the  ingenious  observer  was  in  consequence  im- 
mediately led  to  the  stake. 


MAOLIABECHI. 

Anthony  Maouabechi,  who  died  at  the  age  o^* 
eighty,  was  celebrated  for  hb  great  knowledge  of 
books.  He  has  been  called  the  HeUuo,  or  the 
Glutton  of  Literature,  as  Peter  Comestor  received 
hb  nickname  from  his  amazing  voracity  for  food 
he  could  never  digest ;  which  appeared  when 
having  fallen  sick  of  so  much  falsle  learning,  he 
threw  it  all  up  in  his  "  S*a  ^f  Hutorut"  which 
proved  to  be  toe  hi»tor>-  ;f  all  thingp,  and  a  bad 
history  of  everything.  Magliabech»'s  character 
b  singular ;  for  though  his  life  was  wholly  passed 
in  libraries,  being  librarian  to  the  Duke  of  Tuscany, 
he  never  tvrot*  himself.  There  is  a  medal  which 
represents  him  sitting,  with  a  book  in  one  hand, 
and  with  a  great  number  of  books  scattered  on 
the  ^und.  The  candid  inscription  signifies,  that 
"it  IS  not  sufficient  to  become  learned  to  have 
read  much,  if  we  read  without  reflection."  This 
b  the  only  remains  we  have  of  his  own  compo- 
sition that  can  be  of  service  to  posterity.  A  simple 
Iruth,  which  may  however  be  inscribed  in  the 
studv  of  every  man  of  letters. 

His  habits  of  life  were  uniform.  Ever  among 
his  books,  he  troubled  himself  with  no  other  con- 
cern whatever  ■  and  the  only  interest  he  appeared 
to  take  foT  any  living  thin^  was  his  spiders;  for 
whom,  while  sitting  among  his  literary  piles,  he 
affected  great  sympathy ;  and  perhaps  in  con- 
tempt of  those  whose  curiosity  appeared  imperti- 
nent, he  frequently  cried  out',  "  to  take  care  not 
to  hurt  his  spiders'"  Althou;>{h  he  lost  no  time  in 
wnting  himself,  he  gave  connidcrable  assistance  to 
authors  who  consulted  him.  He  was  himself  an 
universal  index  to  all  authors.  He  had  one  book, 
among  many  others,  dedicated  to  him,  and  this 
dedication  consisted  of  a  collection  of  titles  of 
works  which  he  had  had  at  dirtcrent  time?*  dedi- 
cated to  him,  with  all  the  euiogiums  addresMrd  to 
him  in  prose  and  verse.  When  he  died,  he  left 
bis  large  collection  of  books  for  the  public  use ; 
they  now  compose  the  public  librar>'  of  Florence. 

Heyman,  a  celebrated  Dutch  professor,  vi»ited 
this  erudite  librarian,  who  was  considered  as  the 
ornament  of  Florence.  He  found  him  amongst 
bis  books,  ot  which  the  number  was  prodigious. 
Two  or  three  rooms  in  the  first  ator^-  were  crowded 
with  them,  not  only  along  their  sides,  but  piled  in 
heaps  on  the  floor,  so  that  it  was  diiVcult  to  sit, 
and  more  so  to  walk.  A  narrow  space  was  con- 
trived, indeed,  so  that  by  walking  sideways  you 
might  extricate  yourself  from  one  room   to  an* 


I4B 


ABRIDGEIiS. 


other.  This  wm  not  all ;  the  paioage  below  stairs 
was  full  of  hooks,  and  the  staircase  from  the  top 
to  the  bottom  was  lined  wth  them.  When  you 
reached  the  second  stor>-,  you  saw  with  astonish- 
ment three  rooms,  similar  to  those  below,  equally 
hill,  so  crowded,  that  two  good  beds  in  these 
chambers  were  also  crammed  with  books. 

This  apparent  confusion  did  not,  however, 
hinder  MagliabechI  from  immediately  finding  the 
books  he  wanted.  He  knew  them  all  so  well, 
that  even  to  the  least  of  them  it  was  sufficient 
to  sec  its  outside,  to  m\  what  it  was ;  and  indeed 
he  read  them  day  and  night,  and  never  lost  sight 
of  any.  He  ate  on  his  books,  he  slept  on  his 
b«x)ks',  and  quitted  them  as  rarely  as  possible. 
During  his  whole  life  he  only  went  twice  from 
Flnrcncc ;  once  to  see  Fiesoli,  which  is  not  above 
two  leagues  distant,  and  once  ten  miles  further 
by  order  of  the  (Jrand  Duke.  Nothing  could  be 
nnore  simple  than  his  mode  of  life ;  a  tew  eggs,  a 
little  bread,  and  some  water,  were  his  ordinar>' 
foo<i.  A  drawer  of  his  desk  being  open,  Mr.  Hej- 
man  saw  there  several  eggs,  and  some  money 
which  Magliabechi  had  placed  there  for  his  daily 
iise.  But  as  this  drawer  was  generally  open,  it 
freciuently  happened  that  the  scr\-ants  of  his 
friends  ^'^  strangers  who  came  to  see  him,  pilfered 
some  of  these  things  ;  the  money  or  the  eggs. 

His  dreM  was  as  cynical  as  his' repasts.  A  black 
doublet,  which  desccnde<l  to  his  knees  ;  large  and 
long  breeches ;  an  old  patched  black  cloak ;  an 
amorphous  hat,  very  much  worn,  and  the  edges 
ragged;  a  large  neckcloth  of  coane  cloth,  be- 
grimed with  snuh ;  a  dirty  shirt,  which  he  always 
wore  as  lon^  as  it  lasted,  and  which  the  broken 
elbows  of  his  doublet  did  not  conceal ;  and,  to 
finish  this  inventor}*,  a  pair  of  ruffles  which  did 
not  Inrlong  to  the  shirt.  Such  was  the  brilliant 
dress  of  our  learned  Florentine ;  and  in  »uch  di4 
he  appear  in  the  public  streets,  as  well  as  in  his  . 
own  Iioum:.  Let  me  not  forget  another  circum-  | 
stance ;  to  warm  his  hands,  he  generally  had  a 
stove  with  fire  listened  to  his  arm*,  so  that  his 
clothes  were  generally  singed  and  burnt,  and  his 
hands  scorch^'d.  He  had  nothing  otherwise  re- 
markable a)x)ut  him.  To  literarv*  men  he  was 
extremely  .itfable,  and  a  cynic  only  to  the  eye ; 
anecdotes  almost  incredible  are  related  of  his 
mcmor>-.  It  is  somewhat  uncommon  that  as  he 
w.is  so  fond  of  literar)-  Jond,  he  did  not  occasion- 
ally dress  M)mc  dishes'  of  his  own  invention,  or  at 
least  some  sandwiches  to  his  own  relish.  He  in- 
deed should  have  written  CfRioxiTiKs  of  Liteka- 
Ti'RK.  He  was  a  living  Cyclopa*dia,  though  a  dark 
lantern. 

Of  such  reailing  men,  Hobbcs  entertained  a 
ver>'  contemptible,  if  not  a  rash  opinion.  His 
own  reading  was  inconsiderable,  and  he  used  to 
say,  that  if  ne  had  spent  as  much  time  in  reading 
as  other  men  of  learning,  he  should  have  been  as 
ij^norant  as  they.  He  put  little  value  on  a  large 
library^  for  he  coitsidered  all  bookt  to  be  merely 
extracts  and  copies,  for  that  most  authors  were 
like  sheep,  never  deviating  from  the  beaten  path. 
History  he  treated  lightly,  and  thought  there  were 
more  lies  than  truths  in  it.  But  let  us  recollect 
after  all  this,  that  Hobbe*  was  a  mere  metaphy- 
sician, idolising  his  own  vain  and  emptv  hypo- 
theses.   It  is  true  enough  that  weak  heaos  cari)'- 


ing  in  them  too  much  reading  may  be  staggered. 
Le  Clerc  observes  of  two  learned  aien,  De  Marciljr 
and  Barthius,  that  they  would  have  compovd 
more  useful  works  had  they  read  lest  numeroai 
authors,  and  digested  the  better  writcn. 


ABRIDGBRS. 


The  present  article  presents  the  historr  of 
AnniDniRs;  a  kind  of  literary  men  to  whom 
the  indolence  of  modem  readen,  and  indeed  the 
miiltiphcitv  of  authors,  give  ample  emploxTnenL 

It  woultl  l>e  ditFicult,  observe  the  leaned  Bene- 
dictines, the  authors  of  the  Literary  History  of 
France,  to  relate  all  the  unhappv  con^eqnenca 
which  ignorance  introduced,  and  tfie  causes  wlucb 
produced  that  ignorance.    But  we  must  not  Cor- 

get  to  place  in  this  numlier  the  mode  of  redndiig. 
y  way  of  abridgment,  what  the  ancients  hu 
written  in  bulky  volumes.  Examples  of  this  prac- 
tice may  be  ofa!ser%'ed  in  preceding  centuries,  bat 
in  the  fifth  century  it  began  to  lie  in  general  ux. 
As  the  number  of  students  and  readers  diminished, 
authors  neglected  literature,  and  were  disgusted 
with  composition ;  for  to  write  is  seldom  done, 
but  when  the  writer  entertains  the  hope  of  findiiu; 
readers.  Instead  of  original  authors,  there  tad' 
denlv  arose  numbers  of  Abridgers.  These  men, 
amidst  the  pre\'ailing  disgust  tor  literature,  ima- 
gined they  should  gratify  the  public  bv  introdu- 
cing a  mode  of  reading  works  in  a  lew  hours, 
which  otherwise  could  not  be  done  in  many 
months ;  and,  observing  that  the  bulky  volumes 
of  the  ancients  lay  buried  in  dust,  without  any 
one  condescending  to  examine  them,  necessity 
inspired  them  with  an  m\'ention  that  might  twing 
those  works  and  themselves  into  public  notice,  b}- 
the  care  tlicy  took  of  renmating  them.  This  the>" 
imagined  to  eflect  by  forming  abridgments  of 
these  ponderous  volumes. 

All  these  Abriilgers,  howe\'er,  did  not  follow  the 
same  mode.  Some  contented  themselves  with 
making  a  mere  abridgment  of  their  authors,  by 
employing  their  own  expressions,  or  bv  incon- 
siderable alterations.  Others  formed  abridgments 
in  drawing  them  from  various  authors  but  from 
whose  works  they  only  took  what  appeared  to 
them  most  worthy  of  ol'jscnration,  and  embellished 
them  in  their  own  style.  Others  again,  having 
iKfore  them  several  authors  who  wrote  on  the 
s.tme  subject,  took  passages  from  each,  united 
them,  and  thus  formed  a  new  work ;  they  exe» 
ctitcd  their  design  by  digesting  in  commonplaces, 
and  under  various  titles,  the  most  valuable  parts 
they  could  collect,  from  the  best  authors  they  read. 
I'o  these  last  ingenious  scholars  we  owe  the  rescue 
of  many  valuable  fragments  of  antiquitv.  They 
fortunately  preserved  the  l)cst  maums,  characters, 
descriptions,  and  curious  matters  which  the)'  had 
found  interesting  in  their  studies. 

Some  learned  men  have  censured  these  Abridgers 
as  the  cause  of  our  having  k>st  so  many  excellent 
entire  works  of  the  ancients;  for  posterity  be- 
coming less  studious  was  satisfied  with  Uiese  ex- 
tracts, and  neglected  to  preserve  the  orisinalsa 
whose  voluminous  uze  was  less  attractive.  Ottwrs, 
on  the  contrary,  say  that  these  Abridgoi  have  not 


PROFESSORS  OF  FLAQIARISM  AND  OBSCURITT. 


perisbihic  rragment  Irom  that  shipwreck  of  Icttcn 
which  ihc  batbaTiam  ocmioned^  w«  ifamild  pcr> 

pniv-i:d  by  Ihcir  Abridgen.  The  vnt  bulory  o( 
TtDJui  Pctmpcius  wu  toon  ^rgotlen  vtA  fiiuUy 
penshcd,  ^rtn-  Ihe  cicelJenE  epitome  of  it  bjr  JusIId, 
who  winnowed  the  abundint  chaff  Irom  thc|^D. 
Bayle  ^vb  reft'  nceJJenI  idvice  to  an  Abniiger 
when  he  thowi  thjit  XiphUlD.  in  hit "  Abridgment 


rt>>t.  jT^cie^t  I 


cnou^  10  totore  to  the  di| 
proitilute  of  a  player. 
At»iJgen.  Com^Ien,  and 

iUila:  Kpnkd  with  conlem'  .       

workt  with  «klh  require*  in  cuertion  of  judpnent. 
and  IVeqiwallr  o(  tiBlc,  of  which  Ihdr  contcmoen 
■|ip«ar  ID  have  no  due  conception.  Such  literary 
laboun  il  h  thought  the  leviKd  wilJ  not  be  found 
10  vani;  and  the  ualearned  cannot  diKom  (he 


tkun  their  originali  pcwtsed.  I  muic  ' 
inch  lo  Ane  dchm  after  grul  mutcn  : — 
^ve  tht  fceiing  touchcf  m  the  nght  place. 

Scriptures  on  lubjecb  of  fMJm  Rirraiu 
on  [Ik  pieicnt  toptc  the  elcKant  writei 

of  preface  lo  that  hiatoiy,  veiy  pleasing  ar 


U  itad  may  have  drUgU,  a 


:inploy«  in  elegjnl 


liitlnguab  the  original  fn 


ro  atuxd  upon  tvtry  poiitt,  and  ^  tttr 

aied  ta  hioi  that  will  male  an  Abridg- 
n    baa    not   a   panage    more   elegnntl/ 


PK0PESSO8S  0 


aleof  liteniy  ulenta  might  become  em  incr 


author  VI 


ippiyth 


employ » to  change,  or  difguiie,  alt  lorta  of  ipeecbei 
of  their  own  campoullan,  or  of  thai  01  other 
(Utbon,  for  their  pleaaure,  oc  theit  utility  j  in  luch 

own  genlui,  and  hit  owu  ityle,  id  ikilfuUy  ihall 

of  the  piece  which  ii  tone  copied  ot  disguiied  i 

ibould  ptwev  three  quatities, — pfobilj,  napatity, 
and  cmrnit  t  tbc  piigiarisl^  on  the  coolrarr,  may 
emplw  cnrafi,  lapatlr,.  and  imJlf,.     Thu   \a 

practiie   frequently.    To  render  the  Pan  perfect 
wc  molt  make  11  more  complen,  by  cnanong  the 
whole  of  the  exprewona.     Trie  plagianst  in 
of  toayat'  will  put  frtt€,  tantlanty,  or  vifeur 
pntll}   he  may  aay  rdlglo*,  virllil,  or  Hni 


I  s 


.l/V) 


■.;.•.•>  I. 


«■  '. ,     :.  <.    •  \  •  I  -ri.  (.!.■  •.;  I  i.l  ■  .t   ri.  ■■■;':  I.   ,'".;'    .:     ■,■.•' 

i;.i.ul.>.i     "  w  (.   il-'    M"t   ti.ii.K    \\  I-  li.vi-    irt.Kiiii   .■.:"     -.  ■  • 
l<\    «.i\uij-.  ili.it    ihi    /.«•■;   .€::..i'\  ^'.^■u...  uji'^tn,    •■thcr'«   uiust  pirs".<'«  .ii  uiiK  l»  l!jcii»v.l\o  ti  ..n.kr-  . 
■.  .•.•...■!.j.  .iiul  .If.. .  .  »Uud   u>."      Fcmtcncllc,   in   Frjiuc,   tili'-wtJ  frt 

riu-  icM  ut  ilnx  uiuonimim  work  is  i-oinposcd  i  Marivjux,  Thomas,   and   others   first  intrmlufcJ 
ol    |Mm.i^-'>,  cxti.iiinl   ln»in    tclcbr»tcd    wntcw,    that  MibtiUtcd  manner  of  wntiDi{,  which  tirta 
whuh   .iri-   luincd   inio   .i   new   manner    by   the    more  natural   and  simple   rejeit  ;    the  louuc  of 
|ilaL;iaiiM  ;   their  Itejiitics,  Imweier,  are  ne*er  im-    such  bitter  complamts  of  obscurity. 
|>ro\ed  b\  their  ilre%«.      Sc\eral  celebrated  writers 

mIuu  \(  liny:.  )>.irtKul.(rl\  the  laniou%  Kleihier,  who  » 

■ulduvn-d  vefM.*^  til  hiin,  tn.-i}Uented  the  lectiire>  of 
ihio  pioli'vHii  ■  ! 

Kuheviuitc  iKVaiiie  mi  /ealou^  in  the  caun:  i>l  ' 
litei.iturv,   that    he   )>iibliHhed  a  M<lume,   entitled 


LITERARY  DrTCH. 


(  litei.iturv,  that  he  )>iililiHhed  a  M<lume,  entitled  P^kk  BoriioiKH  seriously  asks  if  a  Gcniuac«« 
The  Ml  (<t  Wiiiiiii;  and  >t>eaV.ii\}:;  ^<r  a  methi^  ^t:  u  bkl  EAfHii  ^  This  coiui*fe  quer>  w-uamwerad 
ol  ii>iiit>i*'>ini>  all  !M>!i«  (•!  letter-,  and  htiUiiin;  a  by  Kramer,  in  a  ponderous  volume,  which  ban 
|mliie  inineivinon.'*  He  loiuludc-s  his  pretace  .  tor  title, /'inJiri.^  nvmiM/i  (iVrmuAar.  lliis  mode 
b\  ad«i-iii>ini:  hl^  UMder«,  that  auihoi^  who  ma>  of  refutation  doc»  not  prove  that  the  question  «» 
U'  in  uaiil  ol  i-NNa\»,  M:rniiin^,  leitern df  all  Lind>,  ihfn  !«o  riditulnus  a»  it  was  conMderted.  The 
written  )<kadini:o  and  \crH>,  n)a>  In:  acirommo-  (!trmans  of  the  present  day,  althcuch  greatly 
daltdon  applK.ition  (o  him.  '  superior  to  their  ancestors,  are  !4>11  distant  item 

Dill  pioti-Nv>r  w.i^  extremclv  fond  of  cttpiuus  that  dt'irirol  t\>i&,  which  characteriics the  tiniibed 
liilc-paiies  >»huh  I  Mipjnvse  ti>  lie^vry  attraclne  compoMiionsol  the  French  and  the  English  authois. 
to  leiiun  ii-i.lciN;   fi-t  It  l^  .1  cu>tom  wliuh  the    N at mns  display  xcniif i  lielore  they  form  MJfr  .■  and 


in  Miine  of  the  productions  of  the  modem  Ger- 
mans, It  will  l>c  allowed  that  their  imaginitiOM 
are  fertile  and  fer\id;  but  perhaps  the  simpk 
ijuestion  ol  Bouhonrs  still  cxL<ts  in  its  full  force. 

It  was  ome  the  mode  with  English  and  f-Tench 
writers  to  dishonour  them  with  the  epithets  of 
heavy,  dull,  and  phlei;matic  compilers  without 
ta>tei  spirit,  or  i^enius;  genuine  descendants  of  the 
ancient  Burtitiaiis. 


CraiM>i}iie  sub  aere  nati. 

Many  ingenious  peKonnances  have  lately  shown 
that  this  censure  has  now  become  unjust ;  and 
much  more  furciblv  answer  the  sarcastic  question 


Kuho'iiucs  i>i  till- il.ii  i.iil  noi  to  empUn .  Are 
tlicic  pcis.>iis  who  « .ilvic  .'•■^1  bi  the  .t'ii^lh  ot 
lluir  .'i.'.f  • .  a«  l«'iliu'i!t  ihe  ahilili  ol  a  />4tJ<'i>'J'. 
w.is  |iii|i:t-d  b\  till'  >/:i  •  r  '..I  -.fii^  ' 

lit  this  jitulv    iiia\     Ik*    aiUlcd    an    a«.iOUllt    vi 
.tui'thc-i  >inv,iil  II  mIkhiI,  where  ihe  pr\«tcvM>r  taught  ■ 
■-.''i.iiMM  III  lilcr.iii  iOin|xisitiiiii  I 

I    do  nut    bciii-w,  f>ais  i'har|>enlicr,  that  thitv; 

wlio  ale  uniiiiclliL:ii>U'  ate  ier\  intelhcent.     (jiiin- 

tilian  has  )iiMl\  iil>scrM'd,  that  the  i>Ds<urit>  <■!  a  I 

w liter  IS  i;LiieralU  in  pn|Nirtion  to  his  incapa«.itv.  ' 

HowcACT,  as  there  is  hanlly  a  delect  which  d^K^ 

not  hnd  partisans,  the  vinie  author  informs  us  of  a  ' 

ihetoiiciin,  who  w  is  so  great  an  atlniirer  of  ob- 

siiirit),  that   he   alwa\s  e\horte\i  his  scholars  to    ol  Sou  hours  than  the  thick  <|u.-irto  of  Krarner. 

preser\eit;  .ind  nude  them  correct,  as  blemishe>,        Churchill  finely  s;i\s  of  genius  that  it  is  indC' 

thiise  passives  of  tht  ir  wurks  which  ap]H-ared  tt>    {>endeiit  ol  situation, 

him  too  intellii'ible.      Uuintiliaii   adds,   that   the  (.■  t_i^  ■».....-• 

_    .    ,  .         ..,  .  .1. ...     ,  II  .  . :   ■        *  And  ma\  herealter  e\'en  in  HOLL.\Ni)  risc. 

gre.it(*st  paiu-g\ru  they  rould  gi\e  to  a  composi- 

imn   in  that  s^houl  was  to  declare,  "  I  understand        Vondel,  whom,  as  Marchand  ol>ser\e%  the  Dutch 

iiiithiiu;iii  this  picLC."     I.\iophron  {io!«sesM:d  this    reg.ird  as  their  .Ivsi  h\ his,  S<iphniles,  and  Euripides 

taste,  and  he  pn  tested  thai  he  would  hang  himsell    ha>  a  strange   dctec(i\e   taste;    the   pi  et    liimMlf 

it  he  liiiind  a  iK-rsun  whi>  shmild  uiider<tand  his    knew    ni^ie  of  these  urigin.ils,  but  he  wrote  nn 

{Hiein.  called  tlie  "  Pniphecy  of  CxvkUidra."     He    stmie   patrmtic   siil)ject,  the  surv   way  to  obtain 

siici ceded  VI  well,  that  this  pie^e  Um  l)een  the    iH>piil.iiit\  :    the  gre.iter  part  of  his  tragedies  i* 

stuiiibhni{>bliick  ol  all  the  grammarians.  Si holixsts,    drawn  tnim  the  Scriptures;   all  tiadly  chiwrn  and 

and  iiiiiimentator* :    and  remains  inexplicable  to  ,  unhappily  executed.      In   his   Dtlt^-t'tanc*  of  the 

the  present  da\.    Such  works  Charpentier  ailmi-    ('/jiA/itn  i/ /if  ji7,  one  of  hi<i  principal  characters  is 

rabl\  compares  to  tluiM:  subterraneous  places,  where  '  the  Dn-inity  '    In  his  JttusaUtn  IXstroyeJ^CMn 

the  air  is  vi  thuk  and  suHcKaiing  that  it  extin- ^  diiigiLstcd  with   a  tedious  oratiim   by  the   Angel 

guishes  all  tonhes.     A  most  viphisticai  dilemma, '  (i.ibriel,  who  proves  theologically,  aiid  his  proofs 

on  the  subject  of  «/<iruti/)-,  w^is  mailc  by  l'homa«  '  extend    thnmiih    nine    closely •iHinted    pages    in 

Anglos  or  White,  an  English  Catholic  priest,  the    ({uarto,  that  tiiis  destructiim  hatl  been  predicted 

friend  ol  Sir  kenelin  Digb> .    'Hiis  learned  man    by  the  prophets.     And  in  the  Lucifir  of  the  same 

lre«|uentl>  wandered  in  the  mazes  of  metaph\sical :  .-liithor,  the  subject  is  gro«ly  scandahsed  by  this 

subtilties;  and  l>ecjine  perlectly  unintelligible  to    haughty  spirit   l>ecoming  stupidly   in   love   with 

his  readers.     When  accused  ol  this  olMcu'rity,  he .  Eve,  and  it  is  for  her  he  causes  the  rel)cllion  of 

replied,  "  bither  the  learned   understand  me,  or    tne  evil  angels,  and  the  fall  of  our  first  parents 

they  do  not.     It  they  understand  ine,  and  find  me    Poor  Vondel  kept  a  hosier's  shop,  which  he  left  to 

in  an  ern>r,  it  is  easy  lor  them  to  refute  me  ;  if    the  care  ol  his  w  ife,  while  he  indulged  his  poetical 

they  du  not  understand  nie,  it  is  very  unreasonable    genius.     His  stocking  shop  tailed,  and  his  poems 

for  them  to  exclAini  against  my  d4H.'triiies."  !  produced  him  monc  chagrin  than  ghtr\' ;   for  in 

This  is  »a\ing  all  that  the  wit  of  man  can  sug- :  Holland  even  a   patriutie    poet,   if   a    bankrupt, 

got  in  lavour  of  obnutiiy  f     Man\,  howexer,  will .  would,   no  doubt,  be  accounted  by  his  fcllow-ci- 

agrcv  with  an  olMurxation  made  by  Gravma  on  I  tizciu  as  a  madman.^  Vondel  had  no  other  master 


J 


THE  PRQDUCTIOHS  OF  THE  UrSD,  Ae.—C£ITICS.  iji 

jt  hii  genios,  wbichi  wilh  bb  UDCcngeniiL  iihu- 
m,  occuinned  lU  bia  cttdti, 

aving  written  i  long  HiipKidy  concerning  Pyn- 


And  upon  tbiL  iflcT  luvlo^  Turned  Prrifnut  tnto 


Dutch  theatre  »re  oener^ly  Iruleimen,  who  ^ui 
thcif  iproni  al  Ibe  hour  of  public  TepTeKnUtKm 
Thu  vru  [he  <ict  wbcD  I  wu  in  Hollind  IDti' 
yeatj  igo.    TbciT  romedica  »re  oftntive  »/  ihi 


tbc  icencs,  Ihe  mill  a  hou  kI  a-going.    II  b  hard 

1  iiw  two  of  tbcJr  molt  celebrated  tragedJt 
The  OK  was  Cyibert  Van  Amitel,  b^  Voude 
(hal  tt  Qyibrccht  ol  AmaunUiEi^  a  vamor,  w1 
Id  thecinl  wan  preverved  tbb  dty  by  hliheroitf 
U  Is  a  patriotic  hbtoricaL  pi^,  and  never  raIJa 

uixially  performed  auceeaiiTeL)'.    One  of  the  ar 


poei.     But  11  doo  Hit  here  conclude.     After 
happened 


with  loud  biinti  of 
be  other  waa  the  Abasuetiuof  Schubail,  grlbe 


a  i— a  Ouith  taite  I 


wilh  ihem  a  certain  mediocrity  is  excellence,  and 
their  maiurpleea,  with  a  people  who  have  made 
a  KTcater  progma  la  rcfinementi  are  but  the  woita 
Ola  puplL. 


to  literature,  which  though  it  it  probahly  forgotten 
(for  it  was  only  reginered,  I  think,  aa  inc  news  of 


the  creditor!  of  the  poet  had  th 
the  Drodui!e  tA  this  piece,  aa  ' 

printed  the  tragedy,  i 

addrened  a  pctilit 


the  Eteatcr  part  a 


her  peiaons  of  Liberai  profeaalona- 

ntwer  to  thu  petition,  a  decree  immediatei; 

pedlLODer  complained.    Tola  bonouiable  decro 

:  I  "  Decree  c*  the  Council  ot  his  Mijeirij,  ii 
mt  of  Ur.  Crebillon,  author  of  the  tra^y  o 

Z'u  XV.  ejhtEnXe  noble  eiampie  of  be 


rmme^^t^ec 


iporidon   ban 
:iy  decried.  w1 


r  JohtitoD  erred  when  they 


■-•— "  —  ~ — -     ■^-  — 


t^mMta 


15^ 


ANECDOTES  OF  AUTHORS  CENSURED. 


of   two  French   critics;    the   one    u    the    Abbe 
d'Aubignac,  and  the  other  Chapelain. 

Boileau  opens  his  Art  of  Poetr>'  by  a  precept 
which  though  it  be  common  is  always  important ; 
this  critical  poet  declares,  that  "It  is  in  vain  a 
daring  author  thmks  oi  attaining  to  the  height  of 
Parnassus  if  he  does  not  feel  the  secret  influence  of 
heaven,  and  if  his  nital  star  has  not  formed  him  to 
be  a  poet."  Tliis  observation  he  founded  on  the 
character  of  our  Abbe;  who  had  excellently 
written  on  the  economy  of  dramatic  composition. 
His  Pratique  du  Thidtr*  gained  him  an  extensive 
reputation.  When  he  produced  a  tragedy,  the 
world  expected  a  finished  piece ;  it  was  acted,  and 
reprobated.  The  author,  however,  did  not  acutely 
feel  its  bad  reception ;  he  even-where  boasted  that 
he,  of  all  the  dramatists,  had  most  scrupulously 
observed  the  ruUt  of  Aristotle.  The  Pnnce  de 
Guemeni,  famous  for  his  repartees,  sarcastically 
obser\'ed,  "I  do  not  quarrel  with  the  Abb* 
D'Aubignac  for  having  so  closely  followed  the 
precept  of  Aristotle;  out  I  cannot  pardon  the 
precepts  of  Arintotle,  that  occasioned  the  Abb* 
D'Aubignac  to  ^Tite  so  wretched  a  tragedy." 

The  Pratiqut  du  Thedtre  is  not,  however,  to  be 
despised,  because  the  Tragedy  of  its  author  is 
despicable. 

Chapelain's  unfortunate  epic  has  rendered  him 
notorious.  He  had  eained,  and  not  undeservedly, 
great  reputation  for  nis  critical  powers.  After  a 
retention  of  above  thirty  vean,  his  Pucelle  ap- 
peared. He  immediately  Decame  the  butt  of 
every  unfledeed  wit,  and  his  former  works  were 
eternally  condemned  I  Insomuch  that  when  Ca- 
musat  published,  after  the  death  of  our  author,  a 
little  volume  of  extracts  from  his  manuscript  let- 
ters, it  is  curious  to  observe  the  awkward  situation 
in  which  he  finds  himself.  In  his  preface  he 
teems  afraid  that  the  very  name  of  Chapelain  will 
be  sufficient  to  repel  the  reader. 

Camusat  obser\'es  of  Chapelain,  that  "  He  found 
flatterers  who  anured  him  his  PuceUe  ranked  above 
the  iBneid :  and  this  Chapelain  but  feebly  denied. 
However  this  may  be,  it  would  be  diflficult  to 
make  the  bad  taste  which  reigns  throughout  this 
poem  agree  with  that  sound  and  exact  criticism 
with  which  he  decided  on  the  works  of  others. 
So  true  is  it,  that  genius  is  very  superior  to  a  just- 
ness of  mind  which  is  sufficunt  to  judge  and  to 
advise  others."  Chapelain  was  ordered  to  draw  up 
a  critical  list  of  the  chief  living  authors  and  men 
of  letters  in  France,  for  the  King.  It  is  extremelv 
impartial,  and  performed  with  an  anal\tical  skill 
of  their  literary  characters  which  could  not  have 
been  surpassed  by  an  Aristotle  or  a  Boileau. 

The  tcdent  oj  judging  may  exist  separately  from 
the  ppyuer  <(f  execution.  An  amateur  may  not  be 
an  artist,  though  an  artist  should  be  an  amateur. 
And  it  is  for  this  reason  that  young  authors  are  not 
to  contemn  the  precepts  of  such  critics  as  even  the 
Abb*  D'Aubignac,  and  Chapelain.  It  is  to  Walsh, 
a  miserable  versifier,  that  Pope  stands  indebted  for 
the  hint  of  our  poetry  then  being  deficient  in 
correctness  and  polish ;  and  it  is  from  this  fortu- 
nate  hint  that  Pope  derived  his  poetical  excellence. 
Dionysius  Halicamassensis  has  composed  a  fifeless 
Li^ory ;  yet,  as  Gibbon  observes,  how  admirably 
has  Af  judged  the  masters,  and  defined  the  rules  of 
historical  compositioa  1     Gravina  with  great  taste 


and  spirit  has  written  on  poetry  and  poets,  bat  he 
composed  tragedies  which  give  nim  no  title  to  bt 
ranked  among  them. 


ANECDOTES  OP  AUTHORS  CENSURED. 


It  is  an  mgeniotts  observation  made  by  a  ynt- 
nalbt  of  Trevoux,  on  perusing  a  criticism  notiD* 
written,  which  pretended  to  detect  several,  fanlb 
in  the  compositions  of  Bruyere,  that  in  ancient 
Rome  the  great  men  who  triumphed  amidrt  tte 
applauses  of  those  who  celebrated  their  vntncs 
were  at  the  same  time  compelled  to  bUen  to 
those  who  reproached  them  witn  their  %icet.  Tlw 
custom  is  not  less  necessary  to  the  repablk  of 
letters  than  it  was  formerly  to  the  repoblic  of 
Rome.  >\'ithout  this  it  is  probable  that  aatfaon 
would  be  intoxicated  with  success,  and  would 
then  relax  in  their  accustomed  vigour ;  and  the 
multitude  who  took  them  for  modeb  wooU^  for 
want  of  judgment,  imitate  their  defects. 

Sterne  and  Churchill  were  continually  abusing 
the  Reviewers,  because  they  honestly  told  the  om 
that  obscenity*  was  not  wit,  and  obscurity  was  not 
sense ;  and  the  other  that  dissonance  in  poetry 
did  not  excel  harmony,  and  that  his  rhymes  were 
frequently  prose  lines  of  ten  syllables  cut  into 
verse.  'Thev  applauded  their  happier  ctfntk 
Notwithstanding  all  this,  it  is  certain  that  so  little 
discernment  exists  amongst  common  writen^  and 
common  readers,  that  the  obscenity  and  flippancy 
of  Sterne,  and  the  bald  verse  and  prosaic  poetrr 
of  Churchill,  were  precisely  the  portion  whia 
they  selected  for  imitation :  the  blemishes  of 
great  men  are  not  the  less  blemishes,  but  they  are^ 
unfortunately,  the  easiest  parts  for  imitation. 

Yet  criticism  may  be  too  rigorous,  and  genins 
too  sensible  to  its  fairest  attacks.      Racine   ac- 
knowledged that  one  of  the  severe  criticisms  he 
received  had  occasioned  him  more  vexation  than 
the  greatest  applauses  had  afforded  him  pleasure. 
Sir  John    Manham,  having  published    the   flnt 
part  of  his  **  Chronolog}',"  suHered  so  much  cha- 
grin at  the  endless  controverues  which  it  raised 
l^and  some  of  his  critics  went  so  far  as  to  affirm 
ii     as  designed  to  be  detrimental  lo  Re%-<elation}, 
th.i^  he  burnt  the  second  part,  which  w^as  neady 
for  the  press.    Pope  was  observed  to  writhe  witn 
an,zuish  in  his  chair,  on  hearing  mentioned  the 
letter  of  Cibl>er,  with  other  temporarv  attacks; 
and  it   h  said  of    Montesquieu  that  ne  was  so 
much  aflccted  by  the  criticisms,  true  and  false, 
which  he  daily  experienced,  that  they  contributed 
to  hasten  his  cleath.    Ritson's  extreme  irritabtbty 
closed  in  Itinacy,  while  the  ignorant  Re%-iewers, 
in  the  shapes  of   assassins,   were    haunting   his 
dcjth-bed.       In   the  preface    to   his   **  Metrical 
Romances "  he  sa>-s :  '*  Brought  to  an  end  in  ill- 
health  and  low  spirits— certain  to  be  insulted  by  a 
base  and  prostitute  g  iig  of  lurking  aanssins  who 
stab  in  the  dark,  and  whose  poisoned  daggers  he 
has  already  experienced."      Scott,   of   Amwell, 
never  recovered  from  a  ludicrous  criticism,  which 
I  discovered  had  been  written  by  a  physician  who 
never  pretended  to  poetical  taste. 

PelisBon  has  recorded,  in    his  History  of  the 
French    Academy,    a    literary    anecdote,    which 


I' 

i 


tiouund  eUring  tlcfecti  in  hia  chcftl'abvte. 
e  humbU^a  rountrr  luthor  bum!  Iiit  tragedy. 
Limed  home,  took  to  hb  chamber,  uid  dked  of 

the  unhapiHot  it  a  middling  author  endowed 

1....  _,  ^(ij^n^  ^f^  nc^te  a  dllhyramblc  poem, 

e  read  a  portion.     He  wv  a  man  of 
,  and  wore  a  purple  robe  edged  whh 

nine  and  melancholjr,  wbkh  wai  the  cauae  (hat 
be  never  spared  hia  own  wrllin^.  Whenever  he 
wu  van<]ubhcd  by  a  rival,  he  immHliaEely  eavc 

caring  lo  Rviie  hb  wtlCJDEa.  It  if  owiog  to  tbtl 
that  he  destroyed  a  number  of  pleasitiE  compos- 
lioDii  age  Incrcaaed  bb  aoumeaa,  awT  every  day 


choly,  and  ahortly  afterwards  died  imatie,  A 
*  itirig  ridicule  of  a  popular,  but  malionant 
d  of  an  anoaymou*  letter  In  a  public  paper, 


the  pain  which  one  levere  criliciam  inflicled  ont- 
weined  aJl  (he  applause  be  could  receive.  The 
feathered  arrow  of  an  epinam  hai  aomelimea 
been  «t  wlih  Ibe  heart'!  blood  ot  It)  victim. 
Fortune  has  been  ioit,  reputation  dcitioyed,  and 
everjf  charity  of  life  eiUnguubed,  by  the  inhu- 
tnanity  of  incorulilerate  wll. 


vhicb  Phjrdrui  adopted  lo  answer  the  caviller* 
if  hia  age.    When  he  hnt  published  hii  fibJa, 

nuch  on  the  decline,  that  they  were  'both  ob- 
jected to  him  a>  faulls.    He  UKd  bis  critici  as 


-■•"-■■-rof  hnp/ 


rages  that  paas  under  bis  name  -- 

<l  hwcll  known.    He  tsll  the 

ion  to  tensibly,  that  he  prefrrrnl 

ot  death  to  the  mortifying  recollec- 


iiavuld  the  ble 
le  had  hardly  mad 


The  writinfp  of  the  Falhen  once  formed  Ehe 
studies  of  the  learned.  These  laboura  abound 
with  that  aubtUtr  of  argument  which  will  repay 
the  indualn  of  the  ini)uiii(ive,  and  Ehe  anriquary 
may  turn  Inem  over  lor  pictures  of  the  manners 

broie  waa  thai  of  Virginlly,  on  which    he  has 

wards  produced  the  instlcution  of  Nuns.     Hb 

leam  from  Ibis  work  of  the  fourth  century  the 
lively  Impressions  hb  exhortations  had  made  on 

most  distant  prnvinces.  than  in  the  nei^bour' 

Boiogtu,  amounlingonlVp  it  appears,  to  the  num- 
ber ol  twenty,  pcTlDnned  all  kinds  of  ruxdle- 
worh,  noi  merely  to  gain  their  livelihood,  hut 
also  lo  be  eiuMed  lo  perform  acta  of  liberality, 
and  eaerted  Ibeir  induairy  to  allure  other  girls  to 
join  the  holy  profession  of  ViaoiNiry.    Heexhona 


"  They  complain  that 


A  GLASCS  IXTO  THE  FMESCU  ACADK^Y 


Kti>.  which  wai  Indml  gnallr  lunpeclcd  lir 
WHU>,  who,  lunrnYT,  EAt  luHkung  by  &A%  bold 


Ihe  poitr^t  vf 

liVKHWd  lo  Ihe  ACJ 
kldmd  «■  a  gicat  oi 

itic  duncdJot  ibM  Uu 


indndi  bad  { — _  ^. 

:uBH  nf  IhE  Jimi 
nnnpeUedho'iapErrarmiHiNk  pciuna 
.  hnlnH  dcclsimL-d  nn  bcr  douMc  cilDM 
hopct  of  iNirdaii,  if.  Jikc  "  Scrnr  Jnone, 

-  nun  ii-nuLI  tinr.'ivly  RpCnl ;  «1  COmplCI 

LTL-d  ho  crciy  d^y  t 


Ihv  vihI  of  Ibe 

Dp  ia  (be  couit-yinl.     TV 
I  by  the  T«t  of  the  nembcfs 

.._t  u  ihc  B>«ppvd  nut  of  kir 

tbHim ;  hut  the  cmrd  va  w  pcu,  ihit  fn  of 

.1 ij 1. 1 -y,.      Actnmponkd  In 

....    .      ....  I  ihrmigh  the  hiM  hil, 

il  by  one  of  ber  I.idm,  Ihe  upl^B  of  ha 

she  entered  rhe  AcadcEnr  iht  fnniMbcA 
iiul  ipoke  in  a  low  voice  to  Ihc  chiB- 
She  am  iHked  whjr  Mr.  M« 


lbl<  vhI 
Kcitelbcbnielhlm'' 


asrta 


men  of  Wnm  in  Acideinlei 
It  would  teem  Ibil  no  nun 

leuibcn  he  himKlf  iloa  not 
ad  llHtleTiniE  panlJity.   The 

Hill  t<CM.y  pnbUud  their 
hnetiere^  WuM  a  IDnnl- 
IHOD  iM  B  much  u  IheArQr 


wilbnot  lb< 

he  »ts  "nK  Ibey  n 

DnariihtlieliKwldchi 


nf  Ihe  111 

<iK  wl^-h  gnM  HDluse 
ig  the  Jmito  u  flMit  Di 

■    inriniini    nf  the  illdlll 


which  Ibey  IriHed  iwir  ihi 
lonunaiely  enabled  lo  do  II  .  .. 
widfh  Pitmdi!VTibG9i,lni«ety  amunLnH  m 
tbc  vbdl  vliicb  Cbiiatini  of  Swolcn  lao£  a  i 
^oev  ti>  paj'  to  Ihe  Aeademv. 

The  ()ncen  of  IhieileD  hininf;  ronlved  i 
the  Ficnch  Academy,  iiai-i: 
■        -    ■         Ihr-  ■-— ■  — - 
he 

mWeil.    Mr.  <lonil«o>yinw  of  the  meminr. 

h  hnd  never  for^in'b  her  majaty  becauK  nhi 
not  leli^  bJ9  vvfKt,  Ihougbl  pioper  lo  ihun 


'V« 


not  Iheic 
nni  belin 
did  not! 


lo  Ihe  Acidcmr,  the  arked  whir  ht 
■be  wai  >mwi!tnl,  tlial  hoRTet  be 
II  the  taonnur,  he  YuA  nndeted  hiot- 
hv  of  it  hr  levenl  di-vutci  he  hid 
t  memhen.     Mk  then  Inquired  «Ue 


■be  lime  of  Konianl,  ibeie  wn  held  in  BaanbiT 
of  men  of  Jetten  liefore  Charlea  tX.  mceu 
Hmo,  and  thai  tbcy  were  ahvuTi  lealcd.    TIb 

ilenly  tDndng  to  Hadimc  dc  Bngii,  told  her  Ibil 

hlyt  Iwt  it  wu  agm.-d  Ibal  tbii  lady  dnemd 
lb«  bonoor.  A>  the  queen  wai  talking  wiA  ■ 
member  ihe  abruptly  ijuittcd  b1m»  ma  wai  bcr 


nw  tile  memben 
1  uhKivIni  Ihal 
irr,  ipptnKli  tbc 


fcated  tiKmKlvei.  Tt 
lliey  dkl  not,  out  of  reii 
table,  dolred  ihcm  to 
nirdlngly  appioa4-hed  it. 
Uiniiig  thtie  eenmo 
onlcera  of  Mate  had  entered  the  ball,  and  Mood 
behind  tlie  academiei.u».  The  rhanccUnc  fat  at 
Itae  queen'i  lell  bawl  bv  Ibe  fiieiide  j  and  at  Ihc 
riitht  wu  placed  M.  dc  la  Cbambrc,  Ihe  dircctoei 
then  Bwirobelt,  Mm.  IVIi*ion,  C'otin,  tliE  Abtai 
Tallemuni,  and  othcn.  X,  de  UeKiay  tat  at 
1.  oUb 


I  ind  Ihe  cbaDccUor 
eJ  hil  addn»  wllb 

d,  they  returned  to 


POETICAL  A.yD  QEAMMATICAl  DEATHS.                        155  ] 

lo  hiJ  chanclet  of  the  Piaiom,  ind  if  it  wu 

of  Cardinal  Richelieu.    "Bveiy  one  lepintely," 
uyi  he.  "  promiaei  great   tbino  ;    when    Iher  1 
mM   >W   do    nothine.      Thev  have  been    .^ 

wTccible  to  her  ini>e>()',  be  would  kkI  IhE  fim 

cE.pttr.— Vir>'  *;illinglr   the  uinKtcd.    Hiving    .r.-jemployed  on  the'kttet  Fj'  ud  1  ibould  be  | 
read  il.  he  Mid  10  her  trujeKy,  that  K  would  teid  hippy  if  1  were  attain  o(  linnii  tUI  they  ml  1 

no  tnoR  lot  lie  ihould  btigue  ber.    Not  it  HI, 

through  G." 

Colin  hid  lome  tcna,  which  bei  mimty  would 

doubtlw  find  beiutiFul,  inl  If  it  wu  igreeable 

lhe>  ihould  be  read.     Mr.  Cotio  leid  them  :  Ihey 

to  their  dignily,  and  the  Academy  hid  then  only 
common  cliain.     Theae  cirdinalt  were   doiioui 

ofbeing  pretent  it  the  election  ol  Mr,  Monnoie, 

other,  where  he  gi«cj  the  origin  of  Ibe  «-ona  ic- 

coriUag  to  the    Epicurean   n-aem  ;    lo  Ihev  he 

of  Ibeir  eileem.      "  The  ting."  uyi  D'Alemben. 

addedlwealy  liuBofhuowD,  in  which  he  miln- 

"  10  (iiiuy  It  once  the  delicicy  of  their  friend- 

in   tbM  rote.  ind.  nithont  being  dOired  OI  ot- 

well  knew  Ibe  adrantage.  lent  lo  the  Academy 

allow^™o  be°  "enoi;.     ii  u  lem^ble™ 

both  Ihe  psrli   read  their   rata  itandinE,  while 

forty  arm-chain  for  the  lorty  acidemiciiDt,  the 

After  Iheie  tjdings,  the  director  informed  the 

W19  to  labour  on  the  dictionary';  and  thit  ilher 

render  the  memory  of  Louit  XIV.  piecioua  10 

moiefmportintabhpllOBri"       '            " 

majeny-  .hould  not  find  ii  diugieeible,  tbe>-  would 

reid  I  lo^irt  or  uilehcd  hi.    Very  wiUinely,  the 

^erlSal""  "°"*  'V  °™'/'"°X^'" 

u-hiilt  uJt   fliaui   llu  plitfir,   lo  eiprot  l  ma^ 
bcioui  violeiicc  committed  by  one  in  Bower.     Al 
Ihii  the  queen    lauded  heamiyi   and  Ihey  coa- 
tioued  reading  lU  that  wat  tairly  wnncn.    Thii 

It  will  appear  by  the  IbUowing  ineednls,  that 

laited  about  an  bavir,  when  the  queen  obaer^iug 

that  Dodiing  more  rernained,  aroKi  rnade  a  bow 

to  the  company,  aod  leeamed  in  the  manner  ihe 

poetry   which  it  not  merely  lietiliDUi,    for  often 
tavt  Iti  genuine  volinet  felt  HI  Iti  power  on  the 

Furetitie,  who  wu  bimieir  an   academician, 

moat  trying  occaaiont.    They  hate  displayed  the 
eneisy  ol  their  mind  by  compo^ng  or  repeitii^ 

wii  1  utiriir,  and  had  quamllcd  with  Ihe  Aca- 
■uffident  resemblance  for  the  followlne  pictuTE, 

b^  ^S'to*hE^uir!S;ich  1.   »   ha^'h 
Itinalited  by  Pope.     Lucan,  when  he  had  hb 
reini  opened  by  order  ul  Hen,  eiplrtd  rtclCnf 
a  paaaSrirom  bit  PhuaHu,  In  Jbich  he  hi3 

nippoK  hu  moat  reawn.     They  all  hive  the  art 

■epeita  liSe  an  echo  what  the  tint  'oid ;  but  ge- 
nerally three  01  four  neak  toijethet.    When  there 
il  a  bench  ol  five  or  iii  membcn,  Due  reads,  and 
innlbet  dfcidii,  two  coDvene.  one  ileepa,  and 
another  .muie.  hln«Jf  with  madiui  «n»  die 
tionary  which  hipoeiit  lo  lie  before  him.    When 

trooiUi  did  the  tame  thing  on  the  nine  occaHon. 
luring,  compoaed  tome  itenei  whRh  are  JuiUy 

admired.    In  tbu  btde  poem  he  relate!  a  dteim, 
m  which  he  appeared  10  be  placed  nnt  to  a  beg- 
gar, when,  hiring  addretaed  him  in  Ihe  haughty 

aide  of  the  grave,  he  teceiyei  the  foUowIng  re- 

a  tecond  member  l>  to  deUf  et  hm  opinion,  Ihey 

are  obUged  to  itid  again  the  article,  which  at 

the  finl  peruial  be  bad  been  too  much  enzaged 

I  on  my  dun^ill,  u  thou  an  on  thine. 

to  he«.     Thi.  It  a  happy  manner  of  finiWng 
their  work.    They  em  hardly  gel  over  two  Una 
without  king  digTTwiou;    wflhout  »me  one  tell- 

ing a  pleauBt  uory.  or  Ihc  ucwi  of  the  day  1  or 
tiOuag  of  afliin  ol  lUte,  and  leforming  Ibe  go- 

"  Bpeelator." 

Harguet  of  Anuria,  when  the  wit  nearly  periih- 

Ing  in  a  ■torn)  at  tea,  compoaed  ber  epiuph  in 

Tolowly  employed  appeart  alto  fnm  an  epMIe 

rene.    Had  the  periibed,  whit  would  hare  becontc 

oftbeepltapbr    And  lld>ee»ped.ofwtaa<<i.e 

POETICAL  AND  QRAUMATICAL  DEATHS. 


wu  It  >    she  ihould  nUicr  bin  uM  her  pcym. 

Cv  giM  KvEi*t,  li  gentc  dnnoiKlk. 

kflKith  IhU  ^i-mb  B  high-born  M«ipr«  l»id, 

UIm)  hid  m  i,^dbiiEld^  ind  yd  dJtd  ■  mud. 

She  «l  betnlbcd  lo  Chuln  Vni,  of  Fnnce, 

Spuiih  inlinl,  IP  ba  rojige  lo  Sp«in,  ibe  wtd» 

Miik»iibcr.    She  im  rtkbnlcJ  for  hei  Ilhow- 

witfaeiflnpUnrpiliefitr.    SIk  expired  in  fiiiiihiDg 
tticK  rcnc^  (rtiicb  ihc  jdJimil  to  Duih  : 

Dignoin  UAtonjin  prctiuin  tulil  UU  liboram. 


ic  tlctUcfttwii  of  hn  ^ 


•"g"y«^  ■  Mm  Id 

pofiulu  pKiudicc.    Ha  dwh  i>  Ibui  notiitd  hy 

Ibe  hi^Ktt  dignitittt  wn  detiTrred  inia  Ibe  banifa 
Df  Ibe  ci«ulLDDer,  and  (dtb  ka  piecn  by  the  most 

which  he  endured  he  frequently  repeated  u  iMle 
the  third  book  whtcb  Ibii  illii«riou9  pbUovpber 


^.K" 


gnve."  A  collection  of  ]>-rical  poem*»  entitled 
"  Lut  Ronn,"  eompoted  by  Old  Glenn  on  fais 

dcitb  of  KioprtQck  wm  oae  of  the  mo^l  poetical ; 
tn  (hapoei't"MaBab,"  be  hid  nude  the  death  of 
Han,  (he  Nifef  of  Manhaind   Lacarua,  a  pLcIure 

he  waa  heard  repeating,  with  an  eapiting  ioi«, 
hi<  own  reiaei  on  Miry  ;  he  wu  eihortine  himieir 

uyi   Madame  de   Staelt  vaa   read   It   t&e   pubAc 


oflhia  pod.aKl  for  hii  cf 


bujudget  to  have  h»^l 

:  waa  lOfTy  he  had  not  iir 
ed  to  all  the  galo  of  the 


who  bad  joined  in  hia  conapiracy  a^iut  the  duke, 
n^ith  the  point  of  the  iword.  wLtb  which  be  klUed 


r,  the  poet,  pbiloaDpheT,  and 
ia  end  approach  with  the  at 


auric  For  making  uvofawltclim  in  her  Uogui 
And  when  tail  tonl^oc  rturm.ule<l  to  hltn 


lioDf,  the  dying  crilLc  iotemipted  him  ^ — "  Hold 
your  longnc»"  he  uid  i  "  your  wrctcbctl  style  only 

The  fivcarife  fltwlk*  tod  tmuiernAiFi  of  the 
levncd  La  Mothe  ie  Vaycr  co&sUted  in  ureDUnla 


proof  of.  IheinHucnceof  t 

bJ^ID  11^  hl>*eMRiiJ  f 
tuminK  lo  him,  with    j 


mutcr-puion,  wbi 


SCARRON. 

a  burlesque  poa  (bnt  no  other 


incame  of  ijiOoo  linea,  rrurried  1  Kcond  ^1e, 
in«t  the  JiteJy  scarroD  toon  became  Ihe  object  oi 
her  hatred.    He  Modied,  and  IrareUed,  and  loot 


teeth,   formerly   iquare   pearli,  are    now   of    the 
colour  of  wood,  and  will  won  tieofaJale.    My  lep 

wardi  ao  cqoilileral  an^,  uu),  at  length,  ao 


It  is  laid  in  the  gegraiiiina,  p.  8],  that  he  hid 


"  AmoQE  your  wry-necked  people  1  pan  ft 
After  having  fullered  thia  dlHonion  of  tbapc 


more  lunatm  to  IM  pieaiurea  ol  nil  age  tnan  to  Alter  having  lunered  tnu  dIHonion  ol  (Dape, 

quainlance  with  (bewitsof  thetimei;  andin  Ihe  uauil  residence,  the  quarter  du  Mann,  far  the 

carnival  of  i6]S  eDmmined  a  youthful  exnata-  baths  of  the  lauxbourg  Siint  Oermim.    He  looli 

gance,  (01  which  hit  lemtining  dm  fomied  a  learc  of  his  (rtends.  by  addrrssinn  some  venes  to 


ij8                                                      SCARBON.                                                             1 

hrhighlrprjfcnnuoyMlebntedpeBont.    when 
be  n  Ungtat  Into  <hc  ««  IT  .  etui.,  Ibe 

toliciled  by  i  liiend.  gwe  him  a  tiring  in  bH  dio- 
car.     U-henScarronliidIakeuii«e^onDfit,  he 

2SS'tW°^™I^kh"lS  .i,SSn°^.ro'^?™d 

began  his  flinuii  [Xu«i,<,  ^11  tnnilated  into  Eng- 
liiTby  Cmle^  R.m^,,.     He  made  Memb  by  hl> 

be  bu  ctltbnttd  ttic  tnumit  by  in  ode,  wh.cb 

hS^'°^^'4°u™'^"li1i'  ^'  S^'^rS''SiS 

TtKK  mi  other  bitbi  wblch  tic  tried  bid  no 

fbund  irfuKe  (Torn  an  unfetJiag  uepmotbei. 
It  WIS  iliaut  Ihii  time  Ihil  the  bcintifiil  and 

effKt  OD  bii  miient^  dinfder.    Bun  new  jfflic- 

tton  «ii  idded  lo  tbe  ratikieix  oF  bii  gricfi. 
Hn  bibct,  wbo  bid  hitheno  contriGuIed  <o  his 

»   well    knovn   by    the    name    of  ■Hdime    de 

ss;£?sss"'™ra.s^;ss3 

het  cbiJdren  it  Ttnt,  in  the  ihKnce  af  her  biu- 

well  knew  mi^t  be  I  lovei.  but  could  not  be  a 

herownw. 

hulblnd.       It   wa>   indeed    amida    that    literary 

Hiibcno  Sciitnn  hid  hid  no  eornejdoo  with 

Cintiml  Kichelieu.    The  bcbiiiour  of  hit  (ilb« 

het  prraeuce  hi>  liltle  rnidenci,  vbtre  the  DUH 
poliifaed  counien  and  wme  of  the  tineu  geniuaei 

hid  <™.  m.d,™l  hi<  nime  diugreuMe  to  the 

n.in«te.,  .ho  WB  bv  no  m»D)  prone  to  fcHgi.c 

or  Patii,  the  party  [brmed  igiinst  Muuin,  called 

«■-    Scirron,  bowercr,  when   he  Ihougbt  bu 

pnon  h«d  moiJerHeU.  ventured  in  preienl  1  ptli- 

maniage  had  over  Scirron,  thai  after  thil  pe^od 

hii  hippieU  prodiKIUHB.     Riebciieu  permitted  it 

able  Iban  Ibosc  which  he  had  pmiously  cosipoted. 

to  be  rud  u>  him,  ind  iclmowleiged  tb.i   it 

•Rbrded    him    much   plenurc,    ind   Iblt   11   -u 

wcilth,  we  are  told  irt  Ihe  Segtii^aiu,  mil  be  wa 

accuSumcd  lo  say,  Ibit  "  bis  wile  and  he  wunld 

FMil  i  l-mrta  dernier  jour  d'Octobce, 

not  iiie  nucomlbrtibly  by  tbe  piodoce  of  hi. 

Pu  moi.  SctTTOn,  qui  milgli  Bioij  JnlJ  lobfe. 

otale  ind  the  MBr,iiiuu  ^  C*'«"-"     Th"  he 

L'«.  q«  1-on  prit  ie  timeo,  Ferplgn^,. 

Bt.  uu  cukon,  H  Mile  de  Sedu. 

\l  hrfa  done,  the  l_t  diy  of  Oelobcr, 

By  me,  Scirron,  who  winting  "iue,  am  lobei, 
■rtie  \T»r  tbey  look  (im-d  PenMgnin, 
A<^Ibou<  ciDUDD-bU),  5e£n. 

dog,  lo  ridicule  IhoK  writen  who  dedicate  their 

^n^,^S*''i?^;"o^dc^*'i™^.1'hin"'h[^j!" 

TbH  ma  flinering  Ibe  miniiter  idioiH)  in  no 

poinB  TTry  igreeihii  to  him.    The  poet  lugured 

warmly  u  hii  dog,  bat  whom  pn>bit>ly  be  did  Kit 

ode  to  him,  to  -hich  he  (pnvt  ihe  title  oT  Than.., 

11  if  he  hid  ilreidy  renii-ed  the  fivouri  which  he 

hoped  he  ihooM  tetcrvc  \    Bnt  ill  wu  kM  by  the 

written   since    he   saw   them    before.      One    div 

ciught  the  letding  Ule>  fiom  i  hymn  of  Ronuni ; 
ciTBeiiK  Dt  Medid.  w»  prodlgil  of  her  prwmi^,. 

Segraii  and  a  friend  calling  on  bim,  "Talie  i 

chair,"  said  out  lulbor,  "  ind  let  me  ny  •"  ny 

ind  loi  tbii  leaon  Ronurd  deduled  to  hrribe 

my  Roman  Comique."    He  took  hb  manuKript. 

read  several  piges,  ind   when    he  obKr%-ed  thil 

U-hcn   Scirront   fuher   died    be    biouihl    b» 

ibei-  liughed,  be  Hid,  ■'  Good,  this  goes  weU  :  mv 
book  cin'l  fill  of  iuccei..sinceil  obligo  such  able 

persons   is   )-out»clvej   to  laugh;-   and   then   re- 

lc*]<K"th>t  the  mru'^lniirtM' ^t  coLtTit 

Jot>)itt  on  which  hii  eiiHence  depended. 

all  things,  em  m  bit  complunts  and  panom. 

e»pr™ed ;  but  bii  amUWe  lady  correded  bim  of 

fa  him,  lilhcnigb   tbe  poet  dediciled  <o  him  bD  j  thU  in  Ihw  monlhj  ifler  muriigi  1                             1 
Tjth—,  I  tnatiaqne  poem,  in  wbich  the  mulbor  |      He  pelilione.!  the  Qnem.  in  Eij  droll  minnei. 

d^hei  the  1^  oTThe  giinu  with  the  gods. 

lo  be  pennilled  the  honour  of  being  her  ^UKiI  ■ 

ind  limed  it  him  irren]  utiricil  bullen.   Scimn. 

/Jiyuriah  ;  in  wK^  liEht  scarron  rniobt  oxuiikl 

iti  their  vi.in  to  b.ni.    T^  Biihop  of  Kinsibo.    hnfotipeunonofjegciDniu.                               | 

PETE&  CORNEILLB.                                           ,59  | 

tr  riiu  ^  nffu.    Thoc  i-ma  form  1  pin  of  hu 

>ddn»  W  her  m.jnly  : 

Scirton.  p.r  le  gran  dc  Dim, 

Milide  tnJigne  dc  la  nine. 

Cherimi. 

Homme  n'ayiu  nl  feu,  nl  Ucu, 

«u-.demi. 

Mail  bin  ilu  mil «  de  k  pane ; 

lenevoi. 

l>onl  mi  fai 

DojimlKi  d'autmi  cbemiunt, 

J'li  depil 

Da  acnnn  n'tyinl  pliu  I'luur, 
Soiiflnnl  baucoup,  dorm»DlT)l(r  ptu. 

Un  pelit, 
N'et-tupu 

Et  pourUDI  CliwK  pir  mangir 

Bar»b«. 

PhiUris 

"  Samm,  by  the  gnce  of  Ood,  an  anwonhy 

Oinelon, 

palicnl  of  Ibe  Qunn ;  i  niJiD  without  1  boiu^ 

bm"  littk  ilnp  J  iDd  vet.  In  ipite  S  It,  vitvcou- 
i^hepli>wlo.ingB»'«-" 

He  dsKTiba  hiimeM 

na  milgret. 

She  tmiled,  gnnlcil  Ihe  tllle,  ind,  whit  wu 

better,  idiled  ■  imiJI  peniion,  vhich  koing.  by 

Ijmpooning  the  miniMer,  Mjamn.  Fouquct  ge- 

nmmlj-  griDUd  him  ■  mom  <DniideiiblF  one. 

I>ethim^, 

time,  acimn  Bid,  "  1  ihiU  Ken  die ;    Ihe  only 

A  Bufliii'"  ' 

RgKt  1  hive  In  dymga  not  to  be  enibkd  to  Icm 

infinite  merit.  Mid  whom  1  hiie  eiery  reuon 

imaginible  lo  •dmiR  ind  ta  prjiie.- 

He  cnmpluM  or  *irr«in'.  not  viilling  him, 

threiteni  lo  reduce  him  into  powder  if  he  coma 

the  UcCDugh.'ltTit'h^' frien'ds  now  cmJ^tAd  ha 

nol  quickly  i  ind  conduda, 

^"^ia 

mite  1  bitter  Hlln  igaiml  Ihe  hiceougb."    The 

SS^'ilteTT'li™  b^'C"dJih,  when  he 

B^Bcn. 

groining,  he  wi>  nnl  much  lAerled,  but  hu- 

moroml)-  told   them.  '"  My   children,  jroo  will 

never  weep  for  me  la  mnch  u  t  hive  midc  you 

Ihil  "he  never  lhouehlilwu«I«yl  mitter  to 
l""gh  It  Ihe  ipproich  of  deith." 

The  Ron>.n  Comlque  of  our  lulhor  b  welt 

neglected  by  Ihe  Prench.    TTin  tpedei  of  writiog 
via  much  in  vogue  nil  iiucked  by  Itae  criticil 

•nd  ch inner.    Hii  "Vit^ie  Tr.ve«ie"  il  li  im- 
ponible   to  reid    long:    thii  we   hkewue  feel  in 

Boilciu,  who  innihiUted  wch  puny  writcii  u 

ceruin    lime   extuum  our   pilience.    it  t>  Ihe 

D'AMUcy  ind  Dulot,  wllb  their  Bupid  idmiren. 
11  ii  Bid  he  ipired  Scirron  beanie  hii  merit. 

though  it  ippeireJ  but   it    InteiviU,  wu   un- 

chute iclor  only   who   cm    keep    Ihc   itlentkrB 

common.     Yel  »  much  were  burlesque  verm 

iwike   for   I   length   of  lime.    It   ii  Bid  thit 

Ihe  fuhiuu  iRcr  Sciiran'i  worts  Ihit  the  boot- 

Scuron  intended  to  write  i  riigedy ;  IhK  periiipi 

•ellen   would     not     publiih    ™cm%    bul   with 
the  word  ■■  Burieique  ■■  lo    t^  tttle-pige.     In 

would  not  hive  been  die  lew  ficetioui  of  hi. 

buitoqua. 

14,9  'PI™??  •  l"^".  '•'''<^'>  "hocjcil  the  pioui, 

Bwifl,  in  hi9  dotige,  ippem  to  hive  been  gnti- 
Kcd    by  inch  pucflliliei  u   Scirron   frequently 

PETER  CORNBILLB. 

™e"'co*nJi«in(!"of'te.^'of'lW  ^-^b\S"'^. 
bihly  origtnitef  In  •  long  epi«k  in  tenw.  of  three 

Show'd  w'lbit  Frince  had'^ioinething  to  idmlie. 
PorL. 

iviudlei,  whUh   ScUTDn  iddreised  to  Similn. 
II  ii  pleuinl,  ud  tbc  Ibnowing  Una  wiU  KTre  u 

TMpeilComeiUe   hiving  hnilhed  hit  itndiet, 
devote/himKir  lo  the  bar  j  Vl  thi.  »«  not  the 

PETER  CORKEILLE. 


lime,  wilbooi  use,  uid  wilbout  ii 


biHDg  Hlkiteid  him  to  be  h»  compuioo  in  oi 
Df  lb«e  KCTTi  Tisti  which  be  paid  to  tbe  lady, 
happened  Khu  (he  ttruwer  plcwd  infinitely  mo 


d,  the  ciiiici  lboii([ht  ihu  IMeli 


(ampmitlon.     He   renined  his  fuU  tvtre  JD  t 
fjimoui  Cid,  «  tn^edy,  of  which  he  pEoervEd 

He  punued  hit  poeticil  career  with  nneomini 
Iplendour  in  the  Honcet,  (TiiiEU,  and  a(  Length  in 
Palieurlei ;  which  pToductioru  (the  Prench  cntio 

At  ien^  the  tnf^y  of  "  Pcrtharife  "  appeared, 

poet   tells   n  Ihfihe  renonncn  Ibc   Iheilre  hr 

Disgmtcd  hy  the  fate  of  hii  onioFlnnaTe  (Twedy, 
he  diTecied  hii  poeiicat  pnnviti  to  a  djf^rent 


I  p^ligeoce  which  previtii  in  the  ttyle  giwlf 


IS  Dot  to  ban  been  ii 


poetical  emttelll^fnenU  ;  these  are  nx>  human  '. 
WTben  Racine,  (he  ion,  publidied  a  long  poetn 


ten  new  pieces  and  published  a  variety  of  litlie 
reJigioiu  poems,  which,  aithou^  they  do  Dot 
it(titl  (he  adention  nf  pgBeriry,  wm  then  read 
with  detuht,  and  probably  preiened  to  (be  fiDot 
tngedies  br  (he  good  Catbolin  of  Ibe  day. 

in(erei(ing  description  of  this  great  man.    J  miul 

hr°eVt"eH^^-Hi'.  h«'hS' »mrtif^  PleasiDg^by 


knowkdge  lie  had  oeitber 


POETS.                                                        ,6i  1 

And  Ibere,  unilded  by  Inferior  irH, 

1  match  the   appiauK   that    ruihe.  from  Iheir 

ipporcil  rwle ,  butinfuthcMiaadlB^Kable 

He  wu  tender,  and  hii  loal  wu  nry  lOKepHble 

Wllb  no  iiliutrioiu  nimn  1  cbeal  the  town. 

offrlendifaip.  HbnnniiuiionwBFeiylinninble 

The  gallerie.  Ihuniler,  and  the  pit  commend. ; 

to  Love,  but  never  to  debauchery,  and  Tately  to 

■Tit  (rnm  their  charm,  alone  my  piaUe  1  claim  j 

.iolentatuchmenl..    H><  ioiil  «i  fieice  and  in- 

dependent :   it  could  never  be  maniKd,  for  >i 

Tl.  u  m]-KlF  alone,  I  owe  my  fame ; 

very  capable  of  pottriyin^  Roman  viitne.  bul 

f>r  imute,  when  I  grant  as  equal  Kal. 

equidled  bi>  incapacity  for  biidne-  bulbiiav^ 
lion  <  the  .UehUil  I^ublea  ol  tbi)  Und  occa- 
•loned  bim   ^rni  and  terror.     He  -a.  oem 

Vollal™  ccniuret   ComelUe    for    rruUng  hi. 
heroet  By  amlinually  they  m  great  meo.     But 
m  drawing  Ibe  chancier  of  l  hero  he  draw.  hi. 
own.    Ail  hit  heroe.  ate  only  w  many  Comeillc. 
in  dinerenl  uIualionL 

(atlued  with  «ii>e   allbough  he  ■■»  condnuaUy 
Wbai  Fontenelle  obK'Tra  of  Comellle'i  loce  of 

not  be  favourable  to  him.    Oapin,  the  Dcnoi.  of 

foHowing  rcmarliabU!  deicriptloii  of  binuelfi  an 
in.iance  thai  what  ibe  world  call)  vanity,  it  hut 

onderli'liponrall;               °*                  1"       P™ 

lnleie.uinag.eatEei.iu>. 

Voyml  ie  portrait  de  Coraeillc, 

NmamiB  wmon.  un  peu.  e'en  notre  (able  1 

m  S'n'  VM 'rl^^JS."^i«  p^ 

^  S"  ""*  "^  ''°'  "  ■^'  '"'""  """ 

Prendre  ici  Futrt  pour  Thtnui. 

.e  .<jj.ee  que  ,e.a„.,e,c™UceW-on™-en 
Ppui  me  fihv  admiier  je  ne  fal.  point  de  ligne ; 

party.    Tfil.  faciiDn  conriiU  of  thoK  fri^d  in- 

lellecU  incipabie  of   that  glowing  eipannon   an 
oec^Hrylo  feel  the  charm,  of  an  art,  which  only 

Bl  mon  amUthm,  nnr  faire  pini  <h  hmil 
Ne  les  va  point  qnjter  de  itdull  to  redult 

who,  hieing  proved  un.ucce»rul  in' Iheir  court  to 

Hon  travail  tana  appal  nunile  lur  le  Ihtltn, 

Chacon  en  llbcrteWbtam.  ™  I'ldoUtn: , 

U,  H»  que  met  in^  precbenl  lenr  tollmen., 

U,  conleni  do  tucctt  que  ie'niiiite  iloone. 
Par  dlllunni  avi.  je  n-ibloul.  pemnnc ; 

l>ir leui Kule betuU ma ptame eatatln^  ; 

et  pcme  lootefol.  n'lvolr  point  de  il>.l. 
A  qui  )e  bH  ton,  en  le  irallani  d'^il. 

ardent  eftuloni  of  poetry  at  dingeroui  ID  Ibe 
moral,  and  peace  of  Bciety. 

Plato,  amongM   the   uurienD,  i.  the  model   nf 
lbo«  modem,  who  profen  ;hem«:lve.  to  be  akti- 
POItlCAl.      Thi.  writer,   in    hi.    ideal    lejinblic, 
charKieriwi  >  man  who  occupki  himierf  wilh 

wctlina.     tl  it  by  arniine  fmm  in  abuie,  Ihit 
he  decrie.  Ihia  enchanling  talent.    Al  the  time 
time  II  it  to  be  recoHeeled,  that  no  head  wm 

I  give  hla  aentlminti  In  Engllih  verK;  with  men 

mon  finely  a^MBiKA  for  Ibe  vWon.  of  the  mn« 

than  PliloS:  he  wii  a  Inie  poel,  and  hid  ad- 

dicted himielf  In  hit  prime  of  life  u  tbe  eulliva- 

^d>^^^XT^To^'or^'a!^4 

•nrpu  hi.  inlmltitje  ori^nil.  Homer,  be  em- 

work..    In  the  Plucdnn  be  dcicHbet  the  tedlnn 
of  a  genuine  Poet.    To  become  lueh,  he  uyOl 

Belf-love  prevail!  too  much  In  every  itale ; 

«1»,  like  outaelvei,  our  trrrrX  wonh  can  rite  > 

will  never  be  nilOclenl  to  be  guided  by  the  rale, 
of  art,  unleit  we  alto  hsl  the  ecrtoiei  of  thai 

Frankly  our  meiili  ve  ouTKlvn  repnrT. 

A  pi™!  humllltv  will  not  deceive  ■. 

1  know  my  wonh  t  "hai  other.  a>'.  believe. 

/nnr,  almon  divine,  which  in  Ihii  kind  of  com- 

pofllioD  l>  the  matt  palpable  aiHl  leatt  amUguoui 

To  be  admlted  I  form  do  petty  leaoue  i 

Few  an  my  Mend.,  but  gain'd  without  Inlrigoe. 

chicKterof  itruelnqn^lion.    Cold  mind.. ever 
Itanquil  and  ever  In  potKMion  of  therruelvc^  ire 
incapable  of  produdng   e»alled   po«»-:    Iheir 
TtTKt  mu.l  ilwayi  be  feeble,  dllfnilve,  and  lean 

»y  bold  ambtthm,  dettltute  of  put, 

Sconu  Uill  CO  bq  Ibeir  vote,  from  place  la  place. 

While  CKh  b^"la  ^ure  «*ta'pniic  i 

no  impicBion  i  the  rtna  of  thoie  who  ire  en- 

Hornefi  (icnoniricilion  of  Discord,  tui 
Is  iucesanUy  in  Ihe  ikja,  and  their  fa 

you  ilong  wilh  Ihen)  j  bmking  likr  i 
IS  jqrrtot.aAd  iwdLIng  }«ur  brtul  wil 
tufium  with  which  they  mt  Ihemaelv^ 


chjinici:     Pont}!^^*!    manu^ftuim,   inliyera. 


po*li  i  OUT  tTMdu  reviewed  them  ail  with  the  ni 
ineffable  cuntempl  of  Ihe   KKILiraL   taJoit,   Jr 

nutdiaati,  (Hid  he}  be  hu  urniitd  mc  nmetimc 

wutbcnc^Ierpoct,  Homer  orVir^l^  be  hone^y 

Bui  il'ij  mon.fying  to  bud  imon*  Ibe  Mi- 
pvlKot  rven  pa<li  IheimcJiYa  T  MaJherbr,  Ihe 
tini  poel  in  Fnnce  in  ha  day,  appetn  litUc  to 


a  mvlied    ccHtit'e  laliour-    ""'■ — ^~ 


a  nun  in  a  prii'ile  clumbeTtvirjK  hii  band-ctTingi, 
enough ;  but  if  he  should  go  idio  Fleet<stTeet,  and 

of  a  Ijind-mrinp,  m  pbring  wilh  i  nuh  '.—\  port, 
write  unptKiicalLy,  cntcTtainnJ  i  Tar  dillerent  notion 
I  true  pDcl  K-quited  ui  ele^'atcd  mind,  that  it  was 
eafeUtnl  poet   who  w'n  not  descendetl  from  a 


■  ot'cred  in  Ibe  sciences,  knew  lilSe  of  tt 
uR  nf  pDcIicaJ  beaulv.  He  uid  "  Poetry  b, 
Killed  obtecl."     This  was  Ibe  deciiion  of 

t^ik  of  what  be  dkl  not  undcRtand  1"  ulicd  tl 


It  heiTt,  coid  uid  m 


s,the  SeU^and 


fhitb  I  pitfer 


'B  a  man  who  wm  a  poet,  or  add 
iy  of  poetry,  but  bis  heart  was  pL 


■eiause  they  employ  a  language  peculi 
clres.  Uiien  the  poelic  furor  scire 
races  frequently  remain  on  their  lacesi  i 


lie  th^  walk,  and  in  bile  their  oaib  in  api» 

inej-  look  as  if  the>'  were  tertecting  on  fomd 

of  corueqnciuc,  Allhoiigh  tbey  are  only  thinking, 

I   as  the  phrase  runs,  of  riothing  I"     He  proceeds  In 

T  have  only  transcribed  Ihe  above  description  ol 
our  jocular  scholar,  with  an  intention  of  riacribiUB 

lo  the  mages  and  customs  of  Ibe  Greeks^    which  the  poet  ispecuHajlysusceplible,  and  which 

prinied  at  Cambridge-     In  t&oe  two  books  is '  ridicule  of  the  tulnr. 

ru'f.'  There  arc  who  study  Homer  and  Virral  as  .  lo  make  in  the  act  of  composing  ^  it  is  cert 
the  Uintl  Irarel  lhfou|Eh  a  Mic  counDr,  metcly  lo  bowever  thai  they  greatly  assist  in  pntling 
gel  to  the  eihl  of  Ihcir  joume}'.  It  was  obien'ed  .  irrugination  into  molLoit.  These  kinds  of  ag 
-  ■■■-  -■— ■■  -'  ■  -Tguefue  Ihal  in  his  imnKBse  I  lion  do  not  always  show  a  mind  which  labo 

.-„  _ jtc  of  poetry  was  Inbclbund. '  wllh  its  sterility  ^  they  firquentlT  woceed  ft 

He  bad  htrmcrly  read  povln',  <nt  indeed  be  had  i  mini  wblcb  crcilcs  and  animates  iDelf.  Qi  .. 
reail  c«er% tiling.  Racine  lells  uvlhat  whenj'oung  lilidn  has  nobly  rompaied  Ihcm  In  thone  lashing 
he  paid  him  aiislt ;  tbe  converulion  IBtnedon    of  hii  tjit  which  a  lion  j^virs  himself  when  *"  " 


»nd  linsuuhinH  (HllU 
iiurikclilailaEnorb 


ne  day  nught  hlin  in  ■  nolcDt  pavIdd,  ipcakLng 
lomnt  employed  on  » toldkr  wlw  wii  Ihmtci 


Ihil  day  his  muter  i  and  Ibil  be  bad  le»Ti 
in^    tbe   cicprenoo ;  that    greal   phde    of   tl 

gcDt  uid  the  uDinieUiKent  on  the  Mine  subjec 
A  Camcci  embrued  a  kindred  oenjni  for  wtul 
Le  Clerc  01 1  SiUten  woutd  hice  ridiniled. 
Poeta,  I  confeu.  frcqiicucly  indulge  in  rtvjri/ 

ever  open  to  tbelr  contemplation,  tbey  travel  wit 

tragic  poet,  wu  enamoured  of  loUtude,  cbat  he 
mighl  tbetc  indulge,  without  laterruptiDD,  ia  Iboae 
6ae  romance*  with  wbicb  his  imagination  teemed. 
One  day  when  he  wai  in  a  deep  reverie,  a  friend 
entered  hattily  ;  "  Don't  i^Kurb  me,"  eried  the 


ho  majesty.    One  day,  having  abKrved  loine 
^.jo  written  on  one  of  the  doon  of  (hepaiace,  he 
aaked  a  counter  their  tignihcalion-     lltey  wen 
ined  lo  him ;  they  were  Latin  rcnet  com- 
by  Wtchter.  ■  man  of  letlen,  then  roidenl 

who  came  warm  with  tbe  hope  o(  receiving 

norer.  Ai  liltk  indeed  wu  thii  anii'poetica] 
rch  a  frtend  to  philnophna.  Two  or  three 
kingi  might  perhaps  renovate  the 'ancient 
rism  of  Biirope^  Barrsiier,  the  celebrated 
Liiiiu,  waa  preienttid  lo  bia  maieity  of  Pnisia  ai  a 
prodigy  of  erudition ;  the  kinit  lo  mortify  our 
ingenioui  youth,  coldly  aiked  lilm,  "  If  he  tnew 
the  law  }'*  The  learned  boy  was  conatrained  to 
ackuDwledgethatbelinewoolhiogollaw.  "Oa" 
wai  the  reply  of  this  Auguitui,  "  Oo.  and  study 


Every  monaich,  however,  has  not  proved 
ifititute  of  poetic  leiulbility  as  this   FruAi. 
Francii  I.  gave  repealed  mailu  of  bis  ■itachnu.... 
'n  tbe  favourites  of  the   muses,  by  composing 

«u  Iheir  eulog)'.  Andrelin,  a  French  poet,  enjoyed 
the  happy  fate  of  Oppian,  to  whom  the  empenn- 
CaracaJla  counted  as  many  pieces  of  gold  as  (here 
were  venei  in  one  of  his  poems ;  and  with  great 
propriety  they  have  bmn  called  "golden  verses." 
Andrelin  when  be  recited  bis  poem  on  the  con- 


mbled 


recompensed  poets,  not  indeed  Immedialel 
gradually,  (bat  they  ml^t  always    be  ti 

then    llicy  were  good   for   nothin 
1  much  esteemed  by  kings,  that  I 


he  early  Hate  of  poetry  what  bonoun  wen 
3  its  votaries !    Roniard,  the  Fiench  Chaucer 

Games.    This  meed  of  poetic  honour  wa 

^i^  iiot  appear  equal  to  the  merit  of  tbe  worl 


It  IS  a  cunouB  anecdote  to  add,  that  when,  at 
a  later  perHxl,  a  similar  Minerva  was  adjudged  to 

^bo  were  the  executors  cif  tbe  Floral  gifts,  to 
heir  shame,  out  of  covefouaness,  nerer  obeyed 
be  decision  of  the  poetical  judoes.  This  circum- 
lance  is  noticed  by  Maynard  in  an  epigram, 
^hicb  bear*  Ibis  btlej   On  a  Minrrva  tf  ttli/tr. 

The  anecdote  of  Margaret  of  Scotland  [wife 
if  the  Dauphin  of  France),  and  Alain  the  poet, 
I  perhaps  generally  known,  who  is  not  charmed 
nth  that  fine  cipreasion  of  her  poetical  ten- 
uis poetry  had  attracted  her  aAecliana.  Passing 
throuEb  one  of  the  balls  of  tbe  palace,  she  saw 
him  sleeping  on   a   bench  ^    she  approached  and 

DCCiU  their  aatooishment  diat  she  should  preA 
le  amiable  princess  answered,  smiling,     I  did 


Di  d*dii  grud.  m'^mjt  jutquo  k  li  teiHln 


UTiDg  rod  (be  rrigedict  ■>!  h 

poaitiDEU.      u^hm,   Al   Icnglh, 
to  mA   Pbvdn,   he   declared  I 

HTpolltui  dwindle  to 'in  efiCl 


a  tncada.  Sq^nii  hu  iDRnioutljr  ob- 
to  DK  hu  own  WDTdl,  "Whni  VDUnR  I 

pVtiae  mpelf  is  reqiring  my  naa  in- 
ly  tc  »U  penoru;   bal  1  paeeivKd  wben 

wb«  wit  nijr  intiiDAtfl  fhcod,  uted  to  tike 


"bS.".,'!- 


•del  iDiTriegtD  in  thcii  pockrts,  1 

tnlrenuaiUy  emararat.  Biyle,  li 
urnlil  (mdcmoa  which  wnlcn  ei 


the  public  tfavir  pmcgj-riri  or  peraona 
Twirdi  they  tflttriEed,  nlher  IhiD  id 
vena  wbkh  cmtin  those  pine^-ria 
e  miny  ciimpJct  of  this  in  the  poeni 
n  in  Ihe  epirtDliry  corropoDdcnce  of  □ 


And  rhyme  wilh  ilt  the  nge  Mimpotc 
11    ii   pcTitub^  be   hid   Wytiberley   ir 


t  a  Hill  wnne  wben  1^  ]KMb  d 


■Bd  MiltDn  In  h»  Kamd  epic.    Such  f 
terra  Valu'iR,  ac  IrcqucntlT  cntllled 

Ibdn.    From  *  Kill  u  uid  wbil  cin  be 
but  Insl^d  ftuiM  ?  Corneille  toM  Chciii; 


rleviKil  into  dltlnltio,  thty  hare  iddroKd  in 
the  Unmjge  of  jmclHMl  ilrvolion.    Tte  ChJoe  of 


dnd puUiihed her  "Adieu 
tady,  incLodlnjE  hi 


that  iBi  of  felecting  t  Udy  who  should  be  the 
ot^ect  of  their  vena.    Kicin  named  one.  and 

the  «nie  nunc,  CMhiiine,  they  puwit  the  whole 
ancTnoon  ia  hirmifi|(  it  into  an  anagram,    Thw 

The  Ant  was  preferred  i  and  many  a  hue  ode  wai 

KetB  cbanee  tlieir  opmioui  of  their  own  pro- 
ductiont  wonderfnUy  at  dlflcrcnt  peiloiU  of  life. 
Baron  HiUer  wu  ia  hi>  youth  vaimLy  attached  to 
poetic  compoiition.   Hit  boine  wb  on  lire,  and  ta 


if  ftey 


kaiifc  to  presen'e, 
e^.pe  the  uoutgc  of 


the  U 


radc  was  caned  for  lampooning  the  DuKe  d'Eper- 
nan.  Some  days  anerwmnb  he  appeared  at  court, 
hut  being  sdU  tunc  fioin  the  rough  ireilmenl  he 
had  receiired,  he  was  forced  to  support  himself  by 

whispered  the  af!aJT  to  the  cueen.  she,  di-Bem- 
fates  the«e  holy  martyrs  who  are  alwayi  tepre- 


detecl  the  ^adowy  outlines  of  Its  tK^nnningsf 

peared  in  the  fourth  century  ^  and  this  eLegant 

prettily  laid,  that  posterior  mmanca  srem  lo  be 
the  children  or  the  martiaee  of  Theagenes  and 
Chiiiclca.  The  Romance  c?  "  The  O^den  Ais," 
by  Apvkius.  which  contains  the  beaniifuj  tale  of 
"Cnpid  and  Ptycbe,~  lemains  unrivalled ;  while 
the  "Daphne  and  Chloe"  of  Longus,  in  the  old 
retiion  of  Amyot,  Is  inekprcHibly  dciicate,  simple, 


ascetic  Rli^n  oppoacd  ll^ir  prOBTek,  However 
Heliodonu  may  hive  delighted  thoiie  who  were 

and  lo  the  enchanting  elegancies  of  stj'LeTheraiseit 

who  at  length  so  far  pnrailed.  that,  in  a  synod,  it 

tuppress  it.  lie  musE  resign  faia  bishopric.     We  are 

crime  to  prruK  these  unhallowed  pages.     He  In- 

hands  and  Dung  II  in  the  (ite.  A  mond  cnpy  ei- 
petienced  the  same  fate,  what  could  Racine  do } 
He  bought  ■  third,  and  took  the  precaution  of  de- 
vouriBg  It  secretly  dJI  he  goi  It  by  hean ;  alter 
whkh  Qe  oftred  It  to  the  pedagogue  with  a  smile. 


rheii  allnced  that  tl 


IB,  and  in  general,  by  the  Enmlom  of 

xindemnc^  (he  libertin  which 
with  the  imagination  conld  In- 


Mahomet  ibund  they  had  bi 
»pr»l)''fti|^Mde™heni  Tn  bi! 


166  I:o^fAycES. 


1 


wa<  publi^iiiiik;  his  KiTin.    The  iTicrctunt,ainonk;    Petrarch  might  have  been  no  ether  than  "th« 
hi>  oiher  riche>,  h.i«l  .*  trca>ur<;  <>t'  roinjni.'cs  con-    lady  of  his  thoughts.'* 

ccrnini;  the  Pvrtian  hcnK'H.  I'hcse  he  reUted  in  Prom  such  productions  in  their  impitM-cd  state 
ills  delighted  cnuntrxmen,  who  couMdcred  them  >  poets  of  all  nations  hu«-e  drawn  their  richest  in- 
to he  »o  excellent,  tb.it  the  lo>;end$  of  the  Koran  .  vcntions.  11ie  agreeable  wildness  of  that  fjancjr 
were  nei;lccted,  and  the>'  plainly  told  the  prophet  which  characterised  the  Eastern  nations  was  often 
that  the  "  IHrrsiiiin  I'ales "  were  superior  to  his.  cau(;ht  by  the  Crusaders.  When  they  returned 
Alarmed,  he  immediately  hud  a  visitation  from  .  home,  they  mingled  in  their  own  the  customs  of 
the  anp.*!  Gabriel,  declaring  them  impious  and  |  each  country*.  The  Saracens  bein^  of  another 
pernicious,  hateful  to  (;od  and  Mahomet.  Thi» .  religion,  brave,  desperate,  and  tigtiting  for  their 
checked  their  currency;  and  all  true  belie\'crs[  father-land,  were  enLirged  to  their  fears,  under  the 
yielded  up  the  exquisite  delight  of  poetic  tictions!  tremendous  form  of  Pu^nimGun/j,  while  the  reader 
ior  the  iiRiipiditv  ot  religinus  ones.  Yet  these  m- 1  of  that  da>  followed  with  trembling  >ympathy  the 
mancr>  m:iv  he  y:iid  to  have  outlived  the  Koran;  Rtd-Ctosi  Knight.  Thus  hct  ion  embellished  rcli- 
itNClt ;  for  they  have  spread  into  regions  which  the  ,  gion,  and  religion  invigorated  fiction  ;  and  such 
Koran  could  never  inrnetrate.  Even  to  this  day  incidents  liave  enliven»l  the  cantos  <.f  Arioalo^ 
Colonel  Cap(H-r,  in  his  trawls  across  the  Desert,  I  and  adorned  the  epic  of  I'asso.  Spenser  b  the 
s-iw  "  .\rahian<  sitting  round  a  tire,  listening  to  j  child  ot  their  creation ;  and  it  is  certain  tliat  we 
their  tales  with  such  attention  and  pleasure,  as ,  are  indebted  to  them  for  some  of  the  bold  and 
totallv  to  forget  the  fatigue  and  hardship  with ',  strong  touches  of  Milton.  Our  great  poet  marks 
whicfi  an  imtant  before  they  were  entirely  over-  j  his  atlection  fur  "  these  lofty  Fables  and  Ro- 
come."  And  Wood,  in  hi*  journey  to  Palm'\Ta  :—  mancex,  among  which  his  young  feet  wandered." 
**  .\t  night  the  Arabs  sat  in  a  circle  drmking ',  Collins  was  bewildered  among  their  magical 
cotlee,  while  one  of  the  company  diverted  the  rest ,  seductions  ;  and  Dr.  Johnson  was  enthusiastically 
by  relating  a  piece  of  history*  on  the  subject  of  [  delighted  by  the  old  Spanisli  folio  romance  cf 
love  or  war,  or  with  an  extempore  tale."  J  "  Felixmarte  of   Hircania,"  and    similar    works. 

.Mr.  Ellis  h.v  given  us  "  Specimens  of  the  Early  |  I'he  most  ancient  romances  were  originally  com> 
English  .Metrical  Romanco,"  and  Rit«on  anil  i  p<ised  in  verse  before  they  were  converted  into 
Weber  have  printed  two  collections  of  them  i  prose :  no  wonder  that  the  lacerated  memben  of 
entire,  valued  by  the  poetical  antiquar}'.  Learned  -  the  poet  have  been  cherished  by  the  sympathy  cf 
inquirers  ha\c  traced  the  origin  of  romantic  fiction',  p(X-tical  souls.  Don  Quixote's  was  a  very  agree* 
to  varidus  sources. — Fnim  Scandinavia  issued  forth    able  insanity. 

the  giants,  dr.igons,  witches,  and  enchanters.  Hie  !  Hie  most  voluminous  of  these  ancient  Komancei 
curidus  reader  will  lie  gratified  by  "  Ilhi.^trations  j  is  Le  Roman  de  Perceforest.  I  have  seen  an 
of  Northern  Anti(iuities,"  a  volume  in  quarto ;  edition  in  six  small  folio  volumes,  and  its  author 
where  he  will  find  extracts  from  "  the  Book  of'  h.is  been  called  the  French  Homer  by  the  writcn 
Hen>es"  and  "The  Nibelungen  L.iy,"  with  many  i  of  his  age.  In  the  class  of  romances  o'fchivaln*  we 
other  metriCfd  tales  from  the  old  German,  Danish, ,  have  several  translations  in  the  black-letter.  T^hese 
Swedish,  and  Icelandic  langu.iges.  In  the  East,  i  Ixxiks  are  very  rare,  and  their  price  is  as  volumi- 
Arabian  fancy  lient  her  iris  of  manv-softened  hues  ,  nous.  It  is  extraordinary*  that  these  writers  were 
over  a  delightful  land  of  hction  ;  while  the  Welsh,  ^  so  unconscious  of  their  future  fame,  that  not  one 
in  their  emigration  to  Brittany*,  are  believed  to ,  of  their  names  has  travelled  down  to  us.  Thetv 
have  brought  with  them  their  national  fables. ',  were  eager  readers  in  their  days,  but  not  a  solitar)- 
'J'hat  subsctjuent  rice  of  minstrels  known  by  the  bibltogr.ipheT !  All  these  romances  now  require 
name  of  TruuKidoui s  in  the  South  of  France,  com-  some  indulgence  for  their  prolixity,  and  their  Pla- 
posed  their  erotic  or  sentimental  poems;  and  '  tonic  amours, — but  they  have  not  been  surpaaed 
those  romancers  called  'Trtsui-eurs^  or  tinders,  in  i  in  the  wildne»  of  their  inventions,  the  ingenuity 
the  North  of  France,  culled  and  compiled  their  j  of  their  incidents,  the  simplicity  of  their  st>-k,  and 
domestic  tales  or  Fahtiuux,  Dits,  Conte,  or  Lai.  |  their  curious  manners.  Many  a  Homer  lies  hid 
Millot,  Sainte   Palaye,  and  Le   Grand   have  pre-    among  them ;  but  a  celebrated  Italian  critic  sug- 


subjects  their  favourite  themes ;  yet  bold  and  ,  imitations  of  cla.Nsical  fancy  condemn  them  as 
^atlrical  on  princes,  and  even  on  uriests :  severe  some  do  Gothic  architecture,  as  me.v  comiptioni 
morali'iers,  though  libertines  in  their  verse ;  so  I  of  a  purer  style :  such  critics  form  their  decision 
refined  and  chaste  in  their  manners,  that  few  '  bv  preconceived  notions ;  they  are  but  indiflerent 
husbands  were  alarmed  at  the  enthusiastic  Ian- ;  philosophen,  and  to  us  seem  to  be  dehcient  in 
guage  they  .'iddrcued  to  their  wives.     Tlie  moftt '  imagination. 

romantic  incidents  are  tnld  of  their  loves.  But  <  As  a  specimen  I  select  two  romantic  advcn- 
love  and   its  grosser  paydon  were  clearly  disttn- 1  tures : — 

guished  from  each  other  in  their  singular  inter-  j  The  title  of  the  extensive  romance  of  Perec 
course  with  their  "  Dames."  The  object  of  their  ,  forext  is  "  The  mosrt  elegant,  <lelicious  melli- 
mind  was  separated  from  the  object  of  their  ^  fluous,  and  delightful  histor)-  fif  Perceforest,  King 
senses ;  the  virtuous  lady  to  whom  they  Vfiwed  '  of  Great  Britain,  &c."  The  most  ancient  edition 
their  hearts,  wMs  in  their  language  styled  "/<!  i/tini/ .  is  that  of  i<38.  'Ilie  writers  of  these  Gothic 
lU  S€t  pftuees"  a  very  distinct  being  from  their  fables,  lest  they  should  be  couMdered  as  mere 
other  mistrets.  Such  was  the  Platonic  cliimera .  triflen,  pretended  to  an  alleeorical  meaning  con- 
tiiat  charmed  in  the  age  of  chivalr\- ;  the  Laura  of   cealed  under  the  texture  of  their  fable.     From  the 


Iblkniring  ulvCDlarc  wc  Icini  the  i>o¥ie[  of  brauty 
In  nuklntc  un  Myi  ippui  uyaitrilaji  I  Akciuxki , 
Ibe  Gnal,  in  fleaKh  of  Pcrccram(|  puts  wtth  hU  i 
Icnh^bin  «i  cncluptcd  wood,  and  whVom  they 
vilT  not  Miiaiii  ImBcr  than  one  night  in  one 
place.    AkmndCT,  Kmmipininl  by  a  |iiy.  uiivn 

bj'  Im  vilchtlio  and  boutr.nd  Ok  dir,  by  the 
kid>->  maid,  ram  Into  the  wik  mbtake  at  hi. 
niBtcr,  wba  Uiiab  he  i>  thccE  only  one  idght. 
Tbey  enUT  Ibe  cMIe  wilh  deep  woundi,  and 
inne  iierfettljr  moteied.  I  traniiiibe  the  liitcr 
put  u  I  ipednKn  ol  the  manocc.  when  Ihey 
vm  OBce  out  or  Ihe  caule,  Ibe  king  laM, "  Truly, 
FUHida>.l  know  not  bow  ft  hat  Uwnwiih  tiip< 

my  beaulihil.  and  leiy  diannl 


her  body  arc  mctanionboacd  to  that  or  a  mcr- 

rurioaily  and  hb  jcaJoniy  one  day  condurl  him  Eo 
the  tpot  the  retired  to  il  Ibofe  tjmci-  ir  wa»  a 
ilaTkcncd  paafia^  ill  the  dungeon  of  ihc  IbrtTeH. 
Hil  hand  gfopes  iti  way  till  Tt  ferta  an  iron  gair 
oppnc  ii ;  nor  can  he  discover  #  liiiule  chink,  but 

^cn  hil  iword  in  itt  head  and  tcrewi  it  out. 
TlirQUffb  thia  holp  ht  icca  Mrlusina  in  the  hordd 
rorm  ibe  it  compelled  to  auumc.    Thai  tender 


ercr  Lent  I    The  moral  dciign  of  the  tale  evjden 

Such  an  the  worki  which  weie  the  brout 
amuHinenti  of  out  Bngltlh  cnuit.  uhI  wbi 
doubtlen  had  a  due  efiecl  in  rEKaing  the  mans 
of  IhE  age,  in  dlHuiing  thai  qileniUd  miliu 
genius,  and  that  Iredn'  driotlnn  to  the  rair  i 
•hich  daiilE  u>  in  the  reign  of  Edward  III.,  a 

ftnctcd  by  the  nUant  Froiaart.    In  one  or  I 


having  tludled  the  c'uipi-JIwjt  In  hli  irreat-ifrand- 

Theltillanromanceanr'lberoiitteeiith  cenluiv 
were  ipread  alHnad  in  great  numben.  They 
(rjrnicd  the  pi^lc  liietatuR  of  the  day.  But  ir  II  {> 
not  permitted  to  authon  freely  to  ei 
idcaa,  and  girc  full  play  to  Ibe  inUj^iu 
worka  mufi  never  be  ptaced  in  the  s 
rigid  inoraHit.  TIkv,  indeed,  pushed 
licacylD  Ihe  verge  of  gnanKi*,  and  lee 
to  (cek  Iban  to  ivotd  Kcnn,  which 
would  bluih  to  dcuTibc.    They,  to  < 

rhii^.  Raiutello.  and  othen,  hut  chiefly  _ 
-■ —  agreeable  byttw  fa 


"  b  iltUe  more  than  a  paraphraae 
Toeoide.'*    Pontine  has  cauKlit 
[ir  cnumi  wilh  all  their  licenlioi 
inch  worki,  theie  grcal  poeti,  and  m 
zODtempoTarieL  frenuently  borrowed 
. .     ,  not  uncommonly  kfndkd  u  their  llai 

irdour  of  their  genina;  but  lien^iig  tonM _ 

ively  to  Ibe  laMe  of  their  He,  1,1  extncling  Ibe 
ire  Ihey  hav.;  not  piulAcd  it  of  the  alkiy.    "^  - 


iuihonnltbE"C«nin 


SSS'*"-r 


x68 


THE  ASTREA. 


The  manners  are  the  modern  antique ;  and  the 
characters  are  a  sort  of  Ixrinfip  made  out  of  the  old 
epical,  the  Arcadian  pastoral,  and  the  Parutian  sen* 
timentality  and  affectation  of  the  dap  of  Voiture. 
The  Astre'a  of  D'Urfe  greatly  contributed  to  their 
perfection.  As  this  work  is  founded  on  several 
curious  circumstances,  it  shall  be  the  subject  of 
the  following  article ;  for  it  may  be  considered  as 
a  literary  curiosit)-.  The  Astrea  was  followed  by 
the  Illustrious  Bassa,  Artamene,  or  the  Great 
C>Tus,  Clclia,  &c.,  which,  though  not  adapted  to 
the  present  age,  once  gave  celebrity  to  their 
authors;  and  the  Great  C>tuh,  in  ten  volumes, 
pawed  through  five  or  six  editions.  Their  style, 
as  well  as  that  of  the  Astrea,  is  diffuse  and  lan- 
guid ;  yet  Zaide,  and  the  Princess  of  Clcves,  are 
masterpieces  of  the  kind.  Such  works  formed  the 
first  studies  of  Rousseau,  who,  with  his  father, 
would  sit  up  all  nigtit,  till  warned  bv  the  chirping 
of  the  swallows  how  foolishly  they  )iad  spent  it  1 
Some  incidents  in  his  Nouvelle  Heloise  have  been 
retraced  to  these  sources ;  and  thev  certainly  en- 
tered greatly  into  the  formation  of  nis  character. 

Such  romances  at  length  were  regarded  as  per- 
nicious to  good  sense,  taste,  and  literature.  It  was 
in  this  light  thev  w^ere  considered  by  Boileau,  after 
he  had  indulged  in  them  in  his  youth. 

A  celebrated  Jesuit  pronounced  an  oration 
against  these  works.  The  rhetorician  exaggerates 
and  hurls  his  thunders  on  flowers.  He  entreats 
the  magistrates  not  to  suffer  foreign  romances  to 
be  scattered  amongst  the  people,  but  to  lay  on 
them  heavy  penalties  as  on  prohibited  goods  ;  and 
repre^nts  this  prevailing  taste  as  being  more  pes- 
tilential than  the  plague  itself.  He  has  drawn  a 
striking  picture  of  a  family  devoted  to  romance 
fbading  ;  he  there  describes  women  occupied  day 
and  night  with  their  perusal ;  children  just  es- 
caped ^om  the  lap  of  their  nurse  grasping  in  their 
little  hands  the  fair}'  talcs ;  and  a  country  squire 
seated  in  an  old  arm-chair,  reading  to  his  family 
the  most  wonderful  passages  of  the  ancient  worlu 
of  chivalry. 

These  romances  w^ent  out  of  fashion  with  our 
square-cocked  hats;  they  had  exhausted  the 
patience  of  the  public,  and  from  them  sprung 
NOVELS.  They  attempted  to  allure  attention  by 
this  inviting  title,  and  reducing  their  works  from 
ten  to  two  volumes.  The  name  of  romance,  in- 
cluding imaginary  heroes  and  extravagant  pas- 
Nons,  di^ustcd ;  and  they  substituted  scenes  of 
domestic  life,  and  touched  our  common  feelings 
by  pictures  of  real  nature.  Heroes  were  not  now 
taken  from  the  throne  :  they  were  sometimes  even 
sought  after  amongst  the  lowest  ranks  of  the 
people.  Scarron  seems  to  allude  sarcastically  to 
this  degradation  of  the  heroes  of  Fiction ;  for  in 
hinting  at  a  new  comic  history  he  had  projected, 
he  tells  lu  that  he  gave  it  up  suddenly  because  he 
had  "  heard  that  his  hero  had  just  been  hanged  at 
Mans." 

NovcLs,  as  they  were  long  mannfactuudt  form  a 
library  of  illiterate  authora  for  illiterate  readers; 
but  as  they  are  crgated  by  genius,  are  precious  to 
the  philosopher.  They  paint  the  character  of  an 
incUviduad  or  the  manners  of  the  age  more  per- 
fectly than  any  other  species  of  compoution :  it  is 
In  fun'els  we  obser\-e  as  it  were  passing  under  our 
•wn  eyes  the  refined  frivolity  of  the  French  ;  the 


gloomy  and  disordered  sensibility  of  the  German ; 
and  the  petty  intrigues  of  the  modern  Italian  in 
some  Venetian  Novels.  We  have  shown  the  worid 
that  we  possess  writers  of  the  first  order  in  thb 
delightful  province  of  Fiction  and  of  Truth ;  for 
c\'eTy  Fiction  invented  naturally  must  be  tnic. 
After  the  abundant  invective  poured  on  this  cUa 
of  books,  it  is  time  to  settle  for  et-er  the  con- 
troversy, by  asserting  that  these  works  of  fktioii 
are  among  the  most  instructive  of  every  poliihed 
nation,  and  must  contain  all  the  useful  troths  ol 
human  life,  if  composed  with  genius.  They  are 
pictures  of  the  passions,  useful  to  our  youth  to 
contemplate.  That  acute  philosopher,  Adam 
Smith,  has  gi\*en  an  opinion  most  favourable  to 
Novels.  "  The  poets  and  romance  writers  who 
bat  paint  the  refinements  and  delicacies  of  ]ort 
and  friendship,  and  of  ail  other  private  and  do- 
mestic atfiections,  Racine  and  Voltaire,  Richardson, 
Marivaux,  and  Riccoboni,  are  in  th'is  case  much 
better  instructors  than  Zeno,  Chrj-sippus,  or  Epic- 
tetus." 

The  history  of  romances  has  been  recentlv  given 
by  Mr.  Dunlup,  with  many  pleasing  detain ;  bat 
tnis  work  should  be  accompanied  dv  the  learned 
Lenelet  du  Fresnov's  *'  Bibliotheque  des  Romans," 
published  under  the  name  of  M.  le  C.  Gordon  de 
Pereel ;  which  will  be  found  useful  for  immediate 
reference  for  titles,  dates,  and  a  copious  catalogue 
of  romances  and  novels  to  the  year  1734. 


THB  ASTREA. 

I  BR!  NO  the  Astrea  forward  to  point  out  the  in- 
genious manner  by  which  a  fine  imagination  can 
veil  the  common  incidents  of  life,  and  turn  w^hat- 
evcr  it  touches  into  gold. 

Honore  D'lJrfc  was  the  descendant  of  an  illus- 
trious family.  His  brother  Anne  married  Diana 
of  Chateaumorand,  the  wealthy  heiress  of  another 
great  house.  After  a  marriage  of  no  less  duration 
Ulan  twenty-two  years,  this  union  was  broken  by 
the  desire  of  Anne  himself,  for  a  cause  which  the 
delicacy  of  Diana  had  ne%'er  revealed.  Anne  then 
became  an  ecclesiastic.  Some  time  afterwards, 
Honore,  desirous  of  retaining  the  great  wealth  of 
Diana  in  the  family,  addressed  this  ladv,  and  mar- 
ried her.  This  union,  however,  did  not  prove 
fortunate.  Diana,  like  the  goddess  of  that  name, 
was  a  huntress,  continually  surrounded  by  her 
dogs. — ^They  dined  with  her  at  table,  and' slept 
with  her  in  bed.  This  insupportable  nuisance 
could  not  be  patiently  endured  bv  the  elegant 
Honors.  He  was  also  disgusted  wit^  the  barren- 
ness of  the  huntress  Diana,  who  was  only  delivered 
e\-cry  year  of  abortions.  He  separated  from  ber, 
and  retired  to  Piedmont,  where  he  passed  his  re- 
maining da>'S  in  peace,  without  feeling  the  thorns 
of  marriage  and  ambition  rankling  in  his  heart. 
In  this  retreat  he  composed  his  Astrea ;  a  pastoral 
romance,  which  was  the  admiration  of  Europe 
during  half  a  centurv.  It  forms  a  striking  picture 
of  human  life,  for  tne  incidents  are  facts  beauti- 
fully concealed.  They  relate  the  amours  and 
gallantries  of  the  court  of  Henry  IV.  The  per- 
sonages in  the  Astrea  display  a  rich  invention  ;  and 
the  work  might  be  still  read,  were  it  not  for  those 


THE  ASTREA. 


ithcT  diiputitiou,  which  ibcr  ihn  inliDduced  hu  no  other  waKh  thin  bii  Hocl 

nID  (omancB,    In  ■  modcni  rdiQgD  oT  Ihia  work,  lutbot  wai  Ihe  youngnl  •>(  hit  fa 

^y  Ihe  AbM  Souchit,  he  ha  luriaiUd  liiae  lire-  i  knight  of  MiJu  who  poacoci 

luDdecimo  rolums.  Cclidon  in  despair  throw)  himK 

^ircment,^  aod  coJlecled  (rDin^hiin  wiib  miiE  diffi-  lume  of  Aleu  he    diiplayi  the 


thepberd.  wb 
who  poBctscd  nolbing  bu 


bad  concoJed  ander  a  ' 

to  tleprive  Thunirc 


cruel  a  minner,  ttait  ihe  excita  hanoi  in  Ihe 


in  Ihe  • 


at',  tbu  he  lovca  her, hideoui 
Hcivcn,  to  be  juil  to  these  r 


n  of  Ihe  I 


.    Itiiiptoof  ofbe 


idering  hevt  ud  aPcctioni 
of  the  prince^  'Hieim^l-ptA  «rited  bcrj  wblch 
it  the  pointed  ditmondt  ind  the  dreadful  dbfigure- 

escape  being  marked  by  lhl> 
meml  by  tfii  ■ymp"'-"-  

ihllawite'ib^^d 


ler"!  onhappineis.  and  on  tbii  probably  foundctl 
I  hops.  After  Kvcrai  yean,  during  which  th< 
odest  Diana  had  ullerrd  no  complaint,  Anof 
iclared  bimftir  i  and  ahorUy  al^crwardi  HoDore, 

Our  author  baadeicrthed  the  pania  under  thif 
falK  appearance  of  martiagc.  He  aBumn  Ibe 
— -'^.of  Celadon  and  Syli'ander,  and  jcivev  Diaoi 

trca  while  abe  is  married  to  Anne :  and  he 

lover  who  lima  lecntJy  ^    nor  does  Diana  declare 
h#T  n^BjoD  till  overcome  by  the  long  autferiogi  o1 

hana,aiwell  aa  Syltander  and  Celulon,  lo 

logelher,  pronipleil  by  ibe  laine  deapalr,  to  lEt 


inanj  reatt,  those  bmlliarllies 
that  In  fact  I  remaned  unmai^i 


Ibe  feUcity  of  out  author.    There  li 


tlt^e  proof  of  he 


.aiful  the   hbeitlei  ihe 
iltdon  might  be  ill  couilrued.    phillii 

sleeping  by  the  fbuntain  of  the  TVuth  of  Lore, 
— ■  'bat  the  unlcoma  which  guarded  those  waters 
obaerved  to  approach  tier,  and   lay  Ibeir 

on  her  lap.    According  to  fable,  it  b  one  ol 

the  propet^es  of  thcae  animals  never  to  a[^noacb 

The  hinory  ui    niiimuaci    13    mat    ui    (lie    eiDcr 

'Uttt.  None  but  bcni  disguised  at  girlt,  and 
rlt  at  boya,  appear  in  the  history.  II  was  in 
lis  manner  be  concealed,  without  offending  mo- 
desty, the  defect  of  hit  brother.  To  mark  the 
ITKtfa  of  this  bistoty,  when  Philander  h  disgulted 
I,  while  he  conveiiei  with  Ajtrea  of 
frequently  alludes  to  bis  misfortuiK, 
althou^  in  aiHthcr  tense. 

Philander,  ready  to  expire,  will  die  with  the 
gloTiansname  of  the  husband  of  Attrca.     He  en- 


before  the  goda  that  ai 
it  Knglb  compelled  bi 


1  easily  triumphs. 


;€"""  J'*"!!''' 

who  Imlnwvil  the  lauRl  on  Miircb)  "  fcr  r- 

■lur  CoUncr,  dcclin:   nuM't>   Petiuiu.'h. 

pact  ami  hittnrlM,  ud  fm  ■  tpwial  mnk 

qiuKty  of  port,  wi  h»ve  pliciil  —"^  — 

nn  tab  hcjJ  »  <'«i'ii  if  laurtl,  g  .      .  „ 

by  Ihe  tcnur  iif  IbnE  pmcnti.  ind  hj:  the  _     ...     .... 

iWtr  of  lUati  Rohen,  uf  the  Kiuie  uhI  ihc  :  poti.  Mi 

Kopk  of  Rome,  in  the  poetic,   "    -  '-  ■"--  '     ■~-  • 

hbtoric  ait,  md  j^m^nJIy  in 


lacccedcd  by  thtt  a 


well  u  in  iiie  \  '^e~P>cnch'iieVeT  had  ■  Mil  (<u.r«i.  iliovgh 


AXOELO  POLIT/AA'. 


jicRing  Dur  mm  cannRr  liillc  on  he  uld 

bul  wfant  b  mcnlinnnl  by  Scldcn.  John  Kiy, 
rbo  ileiKialnl  m  HlMoty  of  Rbndo  la  Edward  IV., 
■ka  tbc  Ullc  of  hi)  hmitk  ptti  lannml.    Oawa 


■tinit.  thU  Knot  tncx  of  th»  dialnetiDn  i>  to  bi 
niiiJ  in  DDT  uiloii-  It  it,  hmteTn,  cmun  Ojx 
lur  Upp  Trom  lime  LmmcniciTlid  luvc  pliccd  j 
nlienble  dcpnuknt  in  Ihcir  hoiucholil  ippoltiE 

nd  the  Kmg'i  vrw2ifirtiar.  It  is  pmhible  Iba. 
iL  JenitUi  rbe  icLcclciil  bird  UHimeil  [fac  llUc  oT 

he  ceremony ;  or  M  rhc  moat,  the  crvu'f  it/ 


of  the  (3rAk  langiuf^,  nicb  ¥rerc  thu  dunns 
of  hb  iKtuTci.  that  one  Chilctimlvlaf.  ■  nittin 
of  Orcr.  hw  hlimcir  ihinilaneil  'bv  hn  piipili 
who  leKHtnl  to  the  dcllEfatfnl  dlsqiudHinn  o 

h>Te  KluwwIedKed  that  hii  pnrtlcil  nnkini  ba>i 
(renUEBIIy  eiccllnl   thi  oilRinib.     Tblii  happy 

compoutiou  that  he  appears  perfect. 


Ttie  lellet  b  trplelE  with  llleratnre,  Ihaunh  void 
of  pedantry  i  a  barten  nihject  ii  embrlli^ied  ' 

MomlKnoT  rtcira  de  Heillcii ;  and  na  wtit 
■bout  a  month  bcfon:  the  wiitcr>d»lh.  rerh 
no  aulbor  hu  n  adminhlx  ildended  hiitwelf  IT 
the  Inoniludc  of  critidHn  and  the  fiRldkiun 
of  rriiln.  Hb  wtt  and  bb  hsinnnr  are  dellca 
and  lew  compositknu  are  irtlnUed  ulth  n 


fttert  into  tmc  body  that  I  wrote  tl 
1y  ai  DceaiEon  piomptcd,  and  u  the 

r  retained  copici  eieepl  nf  a  lew,  w 
nan,  I  ihiiik,  Ihan  the  oihm,  « 
iTfd  for  the  ake  or  the  venei  Ihej'  ci 


ame  mrdd  of  enprrvlnn  4en  ni>|  iduprcd  I 
very  penim  and  ercTT  eo^c.  lliEV  will  nnt  U  - 
hen  loobicrve,  whcn'lhcy  itadiiicfi  adivereilj  nt 

.:tlen(Inieanlflh«'dDreadtheml.thatlbave< 

powd  not  tplillM,  but  (Dncc  more)  mlicelUnL.. 

I  hnpe,  mv  Lord,  nolwlIhitaiHllng  Ihli,  that, 
amonpt  micli  I  vuiciy  of  oninlgm,  qT  thou  who 

leiienibould  liewiilteo,  iduUiiiidvHMipala^, 

Somr,pn>bflbJ>r,w*U  deny  that  they  arc  Ctccnnian, 

'  — awwerjnch.andnotwiihoulKDodanihiirity, 

in  cpiMDlary  aimpaiftUm  we  muBt  not  rr — ' 

oa^amndKl,    Annrfaer  perhaps  will  uv, 


pible  of  Eranplnic  lom 

•.Tc  It  hut  hU  Miailow  I 

Aimlim  will  vSiih  that  I  had  bomiwcd  a  Utile 

m  the  manner  of  Plhiy  the  orator,  Ikciuk  h' 

!inai.  I  duU  nppoie  blm  br  cipmsinK  m 
nlempt  of  all  tbe  wrllen  of  Ibe  aqe  of  plini 
it  ahoald  be  ahfcrml,  Ibil  I  ha^-e  Lmitqled  tr 

it  Apflllln'arta,  an 


.,..,-.,_-h«?    iKrnnl 
tiuijered   in  no  wive  r 


ved  to  have  been  PhaiaTb. 
-  .._ll  be  eerunreil  Inr  harinu  trealed  of  tnpirt 
rbieh  arc  not  pmeraily  miuidcTed  >i  proper  tor 
lUon.     I  idmit  ihia  nnuirc,  pto- 
nndemned,  deneca  aLw  ilurv* 


ipMolaiy  compoiiilan. 


ORIGIXAL  LETTER  OF  QVEES  EUZABETE. 


f>»cb   11  ihj.1  of  Cicno 

to   AHicu).    Negligent  = 

"Llll 

s^sTkCnrpre 

icrc  ibnuhl  lie  nnne.  quliing  i  thinie  bm  wontai  Ihe  <kMtingE  far  it 

Km  »  a  (lood  •n^"  LiHiiity  lui  iti  ^^■>'  wife,  but  n»di  worthy  >i>r  ™ut  highn™  nqaca. 

tiinMn>'^™^i^  KBK  Viener  ^lU  he^'iml  minit  m«iI?™''  '"  *         '■  '      '"*' 

It  HilBckntIr  Atllc.  HI  much  Ihr  bL-nni   far  dired  u  the  ou 

ivinif  been  bom  %n  Athmiin.  be  mricclvd  too  hui  prevent  it,  ' 


ice,  m  tlie  Dtber  oi 


e  Cace,  1  piDB^ 
tbe  couJen  bit 


wllb  i^iity.    ■•  mother  fuirof  ligiiiw  >    Letten  theiriiwerin 

iKiiifi  Ihe  imlcn  nf  divnune,  ligum  hive  the  dipcrr  (Me  i 

ncletim  1  lelter,  Ihit  wint  nlliKUin!    Domil  hithe  I'diy,  u'nuv'l  |>en'hiui!ce?iiL:*lliiK  to 

dlKoveithcpinliuDribciiriUerr    Thh  fruknof  ikeUie il  ia dkdn wher  nnc  I  da krite  Ihein  Iw 

h   KtommniJinl.     Uatt    it   eonreil  it?     The  in  viinki.     And  funher  I  ilul   moa   hiunMr 

unier  tHd  b»i  tliink  pmpet  to  pilot  himKld  anJ  heMthe  jnur  MnieMie  ihu  skin  vdd  ■hall  lake  on 

it  ii  oDC  Tequnlle  in  »  letter,  that  it  •bonlil  he  mr  riclur  vou  wil  witufe  to  Ib^nke  that  at  you 

n^d  14  iBteBtaticHi.    You  eipieii  jrouiKlI,  aonic  haue  hnl  Ihe  nulwanle  ih^D*  ol  the  hcidy  afan 

lnpic^  ml  in  DEW  lenmon  new  IDirici.  TbeMjle  ItKlli:  ««  oDeDer  in  hmt  unsence;   howbeit 

»  Ibui  adjped  lu  Ihe  iuti»ect.   No,  bo,  he  will  bicaiBe  hoihe  mj  n  befoge  I  Ihinke  couldc  do 

-  '-  '- -  '    ■■ — 1   not  fafgnlten  im  incKnl  agrdng  thcrtto,  lihal  Inne  tofoluw  tbLiuingeor 


[rteek  precept  wlilch  exnKHly  (eoinitnindi  thii.      itntu,  Fetaa 

■     ^    -tackt    My.  , 

rploic.    It  will  be  lUlBcieiit  (M    OodlunRlo 


(thilt  by  anenipirnit  10  be  iinhiileitnui  1    And  Ihu  I  wir(tniiilii«f  Wi 
ward  off  aiuckL    My  ctitif|i  will  however   ende  with  my  most  humble  t 


tbaiikei,  bewhinge 


., . iredofhuingMtiiliedvo  .    , ._ ^ , 

1  Vcnm.  If  they  ate  good  i  or  by  my  obe-   Huiildc  Ihli  i  diy  nf  May. 
r.  il  they  <re  not  ».  rout  M^alici  mo 


IFUIIEEN  EUZABBTH. 


ANNB  BULLEN. 


preimeil  a  leller  written   by  (Jueen  Eliubeth  Thai  minute  detail  of  eiteamrtioCD  (Tequmtly 

(then  rriiuett)  tu  her  liiter    Qucvn   Har>'.     II  faumi  in  wiilen  of  the  biuoTy  of  ibeir  own  limei 

jp|H-jn  by  thii  epMIc  Itiat  Mary  hid  dciired  to  ii  more  IntcTAIing  thin  (he  elegant  and  ipnaal 

hale  her  plnuic  t  ind  in  grali^inK  the  wi^ei  of  narvalivei  oF  later,  and  probably  of  more  philv 

her  tnj^y,  Ehidbelh  ■ccompanlea  the  present  lopbical  hitforians.    It  ii  in  the  artlna  miiab  of 

«lale  ol  IhevMF  in  which  il  wai  written ;  but  her  with  a  lively  Imprestion,  asd   faatetii   on   peitv 

ptireolivddenceiiiniTkedlabeatHUfield.  Tliere  circummncet,  which  muit  be  pavd  oier  by  the 

■he  hiiil  retired  Id  enfoy  the  lUiat  |d«aurei  of  a  cluicil  hMorian.     The  writiogi  of  BtanUHnE, 

dmgerwii  pvlitki  of  Ihe  time.    When  MiiTdiod,  Ibclr  natunl  fRlingi:  whMe  the  puaiDnaof  ma- 

Kli/abelh  wa  at  Hilfidd  j  the  letter  man  have  dem  wrilen   are   tempente   iLith    diipawonate 

been  written  ihortly  before  thia riieumitance  IodIi  philoKphi',  or  inflamed  by  the  virulence  of  lac- 

of  anthiuily;  her  letter  divpljyi  thu  in  every  pan  apology  for  Anecdotea,  which  are  ntbered  from 

of  il  I  tl  H  polHhnl  and  rcpnhihcd.    tlhaaalaothe  ohKure  aimen,  on   which   the    Jjgniiy  of  the 


CaJAii,  who  wn  ni]^Hnnl  Eo  hive  uncommon 
■kill ;  ■[  19  prohjible  Uut  Ibe  following  iDcidcnl 
mlghl  but  been  praervcd  by  tn^Uoii  id  Fnncc. 
fTom  the  Accoimt  of  the  cxecutUmcr  bkmteU.^ 

omMnt  10  bave  ber  eya  coveird  witb  a  b»uliigc» 

qurcD,  He  dmr  dA  his  ibodt  ud  >ppnuchecl 
bet  itkntly ;  while  be  w»  il  her  left  hind, 
uvKber  per»n  idvmced  it  her  riftbtt  who  mide  « 
ereat  none  In  walking, »  that  uda  circumtUncc 
Ariwing  the  attentLan  of  Anne,  fhe  turned  her 
face  (torn  the  eieciitknei,  who  wm  enibled  by 
Ihli  iRihce  10  mike  (be  fatal  blow  without  being 
divrmed  by  thai  spirit  of  atfrclina  mignitLon 
whifh  shone  In   the  eyea  of   the  lorely    Anne 

Falls  not  the  aie  upon  the  humble  neck 


when  Ihey  cmnparcd  it  with  the  preceding  glorious 
and  bis   illiistiiou*  predecewor  hy  £it  of  A'ln; 

mesMngcr    to   Elllabcth,   SiT    Roger  was    always 
placed  in  tbe  lobby  :  the  banglngi  being  turned 


this  »nie  kni^t,  whose  origin  was  low 

i3K.-j.sr;':.-X"Ss 

fT 

!K"i 

'  ^  £!:7'EL.''^"u.'?r,."r.',';r^ 

IWU 

James  was  Angularly  elTemi 


s,  we  should  only  lead   the  second 
■  Royal  LcttEt^'■  6^,  In  the  Hitleian 


with  Jamei.  The  gross  lamiliarity  of  Bucking- 
he  calls  hit  majesty  "Dere  dad  and  ftossopel" 

slave  and  dogge,  Stenle^"  He  was  a  most  weak, 
but  not  quite  a  vicious  man  ;  yet  bis  expertnns  In 
the  an  of  ditnmulation  was  very  great  Indeed, 

very  moment  he  had  prepaied  to  disgrace  him. 
Tbe  earl  accompanied  the  king  to  Roj-stnn,  and 
I0  his  apprcbention,  never  pan«l  from  him  with 
niore  aeemlng  affectioD,  though  rhe  king  well 

bis  neck,  slabbering  his  cheeks,  ia>iiw — For  God's 


one  of  whom  reported  it  imtantly  to  the  author  of 

Hedbplayed  gteiitlmbecililv  in  his  amusements 
which  ate  characteriied  by  the  (bUowing  one,  re- 
lated br  Arthur  Wilson.— when  lames  became 
melaiictnly  in  consequence  of  variotu  dKippoint- 

menta  In  stale  matters,  Buckin^rham  and  his  mother 
used  scTcral  meant  of  dlvenmg  him.  Amonral 
the  moU  IndicEDus  was  the  present. — They  had  a 
young  lad]^,  who  brought  a  pig  in  rhe  drew  of  a 

king,  wrapped  In  a  rich  mantle.  OneTurpIn,  on 
an  animal  which  he  gttiBtly  abhoncd.     At  this 


:klngbam  and  bis  mother 


been  Vrrmgly  perauad 
puerile  faiicv,  they  wt 
such  "blasphemies,"     They  certainly  bad  wit- 

whleh  had  gratified  his   majesty.      The  account 
come  fonh  to  tee  pauimet  ar^foolerini  i  in  which 


i-ji                                                     JAMES  I. 

%a  Ed.  Zouch.  Sir  Getnse  Goriiu,  ind  »r  John  '  Connlcn  of  Hu  nubed  iou  me  mom,  >iid  uking 

Hnil.wCTelhechlereuiJinutet  rook,xndiiueLy    the  king  In  her  imn,  nked  bow  be  dired  to  Ur 

Ibis  (ooMng  gW  Ibem  more  Ihjn  iny  d«W1  -a- 

pBedtte  elegiul  ud  Immonil  hutoriu.  1  h.« 

t^bitriy  ulesi  KnTl^  lo^^p^  IhMMo*^ ; 

Ibere  wu  i  M  of  fiddlen  biounbi  lo  coun  on  pui- 

poK  fm  thi.  fooling,  ind  fiohiiK  wiu  m=ttr  ol 

1  cuiiooj  inecdote ;— B«o  lo  Utc  u  when  Jime.  1. 

the  eune  ft»  tonlerteh  mmetlmei  preienling  Djvid 

WM  Kited  on  the  Ihmne  of  Englind,  once  the  .p- 

pear.ince  of  hit  fin.-tin[  I-i.r  ••  i  irtam  girilly 

OB  Ihc  b*ck  of  Ihe  -her  fool,  to  till  one  «  .n- 

other,  Mil  ther  lell  togelhct  by  ttic  ejto ;  tome-    hn  illinmom  pedngogiie  in  Ihij  portcnloui  vIhou. 
Ibns  Ihev  petfnnned  anllck  du.™.     But  Sir    Such  wm  Ifae  iotoi  which  the  temembrjoce  or 

John  Hillieml  (who  n>  noer  known  belore)    thii  innonble  repuhlicin  tnloc  h>d  led  on  the 

.fideed  the^  b«  ,xirmfcr.rj  /-I,  nf  them  ill."  1      Jjmei  r.  w»  ceniinly  1  leiloiH  woOry  of  lile- 

nicleoflhelimn.''      """      "'*'"'      ™"'   "^  I  Sodloin  Uhnr>M  0.'fo3!!hc^Si™d."WmI 

Hi>  diipoiition)  were,  however,  Knenllv  grave  .  not  •  king  1  wonld  be  in  uifii-enitv  min ;  ud 

and  itHd/om    Ht  Memi  lo  h.ve  poHsea  ■  ml    if  il  wen;  w  lh«  1  miitt  he  >  prHODcr,  if  I  might 

loee  of  inicn.  but  Mtewled  wiib  ihit  mediocrin  '  faii-e  mv  wiita,  I  would  hive  no  other  prwo  thu 

oftileBtwUlrhin.priviIepetwnhKlncefniied    thi)  bbtiry.  ud  be  dnined  louOhei  wiih  these 

him  into  notice.    "While  there  wu  •  ch.im," 

good  lulbotL" 

wntn  the   (utbor  of  Ibe  CaiXogiie   of    Noble 

Aulhon,  "  Ihu  Ifae  di-cTi  ion,  Vontiiu.  might  be 
dhinity  profcwir  it  Uyden,  initead  of  bcingtutnl. 

decent."    Tfae  frillowing  lie  the  minulc  pirticu- 

Im;  1  huve  dnwn  them  Itom  lu  imperfect  mi- 

u  hit  miie«v  hinted  u  ilu  ckrUitat  fnina  of 

nuicript  colleciion,  mule  by  the  celefanled  Sir 

Uk  Dulch  lh«  he  dnnved  lo  be.  our  imbuudors 

Thom«liowne, 

"  The  lord  keeper,  on  Mirch  ii.  received  i  letter 
from  the  court,  th.1  il  wa  feared  hli  mijeH>-'i 

could  no«  ne»t  on  my  other  buiinea.    The  king. 

oe  ibe  point  of  brejkinB  with  the  Suns' for  mp- 

the  roid.  KU  Icdd  bv  hi'm  thit"SK  king  uie^l  to 

,cd.M.  OModomi.  ftc,  point,  of  ™eme  e™- 

b.»  .  beneficlil  eiicuuion  of  o«o«,  *  neiting 

in  bi^  left  um,  ..  helpful  to  him  u  uv  fonlue'l 

KH  forced  tn  threiien  Ifae  Dutch,  nol'onlv  »ilfa 

could  be,  which  of  Utefiiled. 

Ihe  hiticd   of  King  Jiiiie>,  hui   ilv  wi'lh   hi. 

fiire  him,  he  moicd  to  ibeerful  dnccnnc.  Iiut  it 

liii)  roial  pedant  L«  (orribly  chiiacierijed  by  the 

"  Among  hn  mjjenv-i  woitj  Li  i  inull  col- 

uciu) In  the  morning  he  wx  out  of  comlnit.'ud 

lection  of  pom>-.     Lilie  «v*t^  of  hi<  .uh)eclfc 

by  Ibe  prince-.  k*«  lokl  him,  kneelim!  bj-  hi. 

OUT  rntMl  luihor  hu  coodevendcd  to  ipakigin; 

pjllel,  thil  bii  day.  lo  come  would  be  bul  hnv  Id 

Ibii  world-W  am  ulnStd,-  ..id  the  kina;  'bul 
pnti-ou  ann  me  fo  make  nK  nady  ha  ihe  neit 

occupied.    So  Alt  fio  rmplojTii,  own  L.ng..>ge) 

■«ben  hi»  ineiiM  ind  ige  rouH.  hn  Miini  ind 
bicberie  mniilil  noi  peimit  him  tn  (onect  Ihcm, 

'■  Fiom  tbil  lime  Ibe  keeper  never  k-ft  him,  or 

kivK  lo  Menk  upon  iny  piper.'    When  Jimei 
tent  a  preKnt  at  hn  hir>ngue%  turned  into  1  jtin, 

puloA'hi.clo.lbe.  togoto^.    ThekiuEl^ 

bowm  of  the  Church  nf  Bnglind.  whmc  doctrine 

it  wB  Kcordlni  lo  Ibe  miml  of  chiiit,  ji  lie 

.hould  .hoitlv  unce.  it  bel^  him. 

fnnnuue  thil  he  hxl  re>d  Ibem,  wiihnul  povtively 

■■  He  «»i-ed  in  the  cbimber  to  tike  notice  of 

■aeitingitl    Bucbuun. when  uked  hnwheame 

everything  the  kin»  Mid,  ud  to  repul*  thoK 

!!.:;';:  !s?K."',."i3ts?'ii'sra 

into  Ihe  cb.mherr  Ihev  wer^  f»  ihe  mou  id- 

OeoTKc  MKkeniie  leliies  ■  norv  of  bii  lutelue, 
which  <hDwt  Buchinuit  humour.  uhI  the  ytnt- 

dieted  m  the  Church  "of  Rome.     Being  rid  of 

raiion  of  otben  for  ro>ilty.  The  j-oung  king  being 

lingend  on.  ud  it  lul  .tec  )u  rjii  v>.i«  !tS 

oned.v  «  pl.y  with  hi>  fellow  pupil,  the  A»ttS 

them  to  mike  le_  noiw.    A>  Ihev  Jiseoirded  bK 

fail  longoe,  he  would  certiiniy  whis  hH  breech. 
The  king  replied,  he  would  be  eUd  lo  «  who 
wouldlvlfibcii,illudii«tathcSble.   Bucbuun 

wn  IH--II." 

Thni  in  the  full  power  of  bii  ficuliies  a  timo- 

tal  bii  temper,  iod  throwing  ha  book  f^mi  him,  ;Litei«>-  ind   Fohtlol  Chincter  of  Juki   Ihe  1 

1  g»e  hi.  luijeur  >  nund  doong.     The  oW    Firu.- p.  i, . 

GKSESAL  MOXK.~PSILIP  AND  UARy. 


rutnitly;  ind  whit  can  pltOaHphj  ii 
—wren  phtlD-- -■ ■-  ■ 

pTOpOlcd    Xf 


of  (be  !« j  «t  I  HitTCI  thil  Jima  wu  not  Ihil 
degndcd  inS  rrcblE  chmnctcr  in  whicb  he  nnfc 
tqr  the  Rmu^oiu  ni)ce  of  critldim.  He  hu  hii 
mon  critici  Ibtn  milm.    Aftrr  a  S<^  niunbri 

attempcm,  whlrh  wv  fiiid  fanlinually  rvcorAee 
him  by  cAnUnponry  vriMi,  4tTd  k 


friendly  lo  hit 


lUtnponry  vrilni,  41 
1.  I  concfnde  that  h. 


Ttut  bbanr  1  hjTC  lince  xnloiuly  performed. 
Thil  vlidc,  compcncd  ihiriy  ytwj  tgn,  diapti^i 

it  hd  luHercd  horn  i  ririety  of  ciiua,     Thit 
twenly  v«n ;  jkI  his  tiltnli  wm  of  1  higher 

E™^.'"  or  "he  rest  I  mint  refer  'thVmder 


perrnil  ladin  ro  remain  lit  home,  « 
|dD(a  fre  tu  be  HcrcTJy  liucuucd. 
di«|ilni  Ihv  IreHChery   of   Monk's 


liiii  bjrpii 


10  KcnUrbal  th^  Monk'i  wile,  who  had  pnited 
■uncir  [OBTenlcDtlr  bdiind  the  hinitinEi,  hnding 
vhaE  *a*  reuh^  nponr  *°^  her  brother  Clirges , 
■my  ImTncdiucir  wiTh  notice  of  U  to  Sit  A.  A. 
the  bad  prwnlicd  10  witch  her  buabind,  and  iO' 


ralie.  liie  gcnenl  iisiBted  that  he  wag 
it  prlBclpleii  and  (irm  To  what  he  had 
d,  and  thai  he  wai  rcidv  to  0\t  then: 


sirir;; 


rr  the  cBecti  of  the  inlidciily  nl 


Geauty.    Thii  nurrEaae  wai  ai  JittJe  'happ>-  for 

them.  Sllhon  latT,  thai  the  ttgi,ut  which  he 
eaerdiei!  in  Bngiind  againit  heretic!,  fiTtly  bin- 

spcakh  of  this  pretended  iaclination,  and  ia  il  pro- 
babie  that  Muy  ever  (houRhT  prt^jer  To  call  to 
the  lUcmiiaD  ol  the  Enghdi  ibmne  the  kh  of 
the  Spiniita  Monarch  ?    Tbii  mirnage  had  made 


ULTilint;  dF  Ituun  Maty,  of  which  the  IDUiniiue  ii 
a  inpi.    IT  wat.  pnbahlr,  wrillen  when  MiVUe 
WMJuiI  Kilted  no  the  Bn^iih  thmnc. 
"  Imtrudiuoi  for  my  Innle  Prevl'»;l- 
"  T\ntr.  Id  Il-II  the  Kil^R  Ihc  whrie  >l«te  nl  Ihii 

'•  Thyidlx,  in  all  thinsi  he  ihiill   uke   yont 

laUEhed  al  Philip,  Eellinif  The  duke  nf  ] 
ambanador,  that  her  coucienee  would  nc 


176 


CHARLES  THE  FIRST. 


he  npared  no  one  whom  he  feared ;  to  them  he 
sacrificed  his  only  son,  his  brother,  and  a  great 
number  of  princes  and  ministers. 

It  is  said  of  Philip,  that  before  he  died  he  ad- 
vised his  son  to  make  peace  with  England,  and 
war  with  the  other  powers.  Pacem  cum  Anglo, 
bellum  cum  reliquis.  Queen  Elizabeth,  and  the 
ruin  of  his  imincible  fleet,  physicked  his  frenzy 
into  health,  and  taueht  him  to  fear  and  respect 
that  country  which  ne  thought  he  could  have 
made  a  province  of  Spain  t 

On  his  dcath-bed  he  did  everything  he  could 
for  tal'vation.  The  following  protestation,  a  cu- 
rious morsel  of  bigotr>',  he  sent  to  his  confessor 
a  few  days  before  he  died  : 

**  Father  confessor !  as  you  occupy  the  place  of 
God,  I  protest  to  you  that  I  will  do  evm'thing 
you  shall  say  to  be'  necessary  for  my  being  saved ; 
90  that  what  I  omit  doing  will  be  placed  to  your 
account,  as  I  am  ready  to  acquit  m}'9elf  of  all  that 
^all  be  ordered  to  me." 

Is  there  in  the  records  of  history  a  more  glaring 
instance  of  the  idea  which  a  good  Catholic  at- 
taches to  the  power  of  a  confessor  than  the  pre- 
sent authentic  example?  The  most  licentious 
philosophy  seems  not  more  dangerous  than  a  re- 
ligion whose  votary  believes  that  the  accumula- 
tion of  crimes  can  be  dissipated  bv  the  breath  of 
a  few  orisons,  and  which,  considering  a  venal 
priest  to  "  occupy  the  place  of  God,"  can  traffic 
with  the  divine  power  at  a  very  moderate  price. 

^er  his  death  a  Spanish  grandee  wrote  with  a 
coal  on  the  chimne>'piece  of  his  chamber  the 
following  epitaph,  which  ingeniously  paints  his 
character  in  four  verses : 

Siendo  mo^o  luxurioso ; 
Siendo  hombre,  fue  cruel ; 
Siendo  viejo,  codicioso ; 
Que  sc  pucde  esperar  del  ? 

In  youth  he  was  luxurious ; 
In  manhoo<l  he  was  cruel ; 
In  old  age  he  was  avaricious  ; 
What  could  be  hoped  from  him  ? 


CHARLES  THE  FIRST. 

Or  his  romantic  excursion  into  Spain  for  the 
Infanta,  many  curious  particulars  are  scattered 
amongst  foreign  writers,  which  display  the  super- 
stitious prejudices  which  prevailed  on  this  occa- 
sion, and,  perhaps,  develop  the  mysterious  politics 
of  the  courts  of  Spain  and  Rome. 

Cardinal  Gaetano,  who  had  long  been  nuncio 
in  Spain,  observes,  that  the  people,  accustomed 
to  revere  the  inquisition  as  the  oracle  of  divinity, 
abhorred  the  proposal  of  the  marriage  of  the  In- 
fanta with  an  heretical  prince ;  but  that  the  king's 
council,  and  all  wise  politicians,  were  desirous 
of  its  accomplishment.  Gregory  XV.  held  a 
consultation  of  cardinals,  where  it  was  agreed 
that  the  just  apprehension  which  the  English 
Catholics  entertained  of  being  more  cruelly  per- 
secuted, if  this  marriage  failed,  was  a  sufficient 
reason  to  justify  the  pope.  The  dispensation 
was  therefore  immediately  granted,  and  sent  to 


the  nuncio  of  Spain,  with  orders  to  inform  the 
Prince  of  Wales,  in  case  of  rupture,  that  no  im- 
pediment of  the  marriage  proceeded  ^m  dw 
court  of  Rome,  who,  on  the  contrary,  had  ex- 
pedited the  dispensation. 

The  prince's  excursion  to  Madrid  waa,  bowcrcTp 
universally  blamed,  as  being  inimical  to  atate 
interests.  Nani,  author  of  a  history  of  Venice, 
which,  according  to  his  digressive  manner,  is  the 
universal  history  of  his  times,  has  noticed  thb 
affair.  <*The  people  talked,  and  the  English 
murmured  more  than  any  other  nation  to  aee  the 
only  son  of  the  king  and  heir  of  his  realms  Tcn- 
ture  on  so  long  a  vo>'age,  and  present  himseir 
rather  as  a  hostage  than  a  husband  to  a  fordgn 
court,  which  so  w^idely  differed  in  government 
and  reli^on,  to  obtain  by  force  of  prayer  and 
supplications  a  woman  whom  Philip  and  his 
ministers  nlkde  a  point  of  honour  and  conscience 
to  refuse." 

Houflsaie  observe^,  "  The  Eng^i<4i  council  were 
against  it,  but  king  James  obstinjitely  rewired 
on  it ;  being  over  persuaded  by  Gon^omar,  the 
Spanish  ambassador,  whose  facetious  humour  and 
lively  repartees  greatly  delighted  him.  Gon- 
domar  persuaded  him  that  the  presence  of  the 
prince  would  not  fail  of  accomplisning  this  union, 
and  also  the  restitution  of  the  electorate  to  hu 
son-in-law  the  palatine.  Add  to  this  the  Eari  of 
Bristol,  the  English  ambassador  extraordinary  at 
the  court  of  Madrid,  finding  it  his  interest,  mrotc 
repeatedly  to  his  majesty  that  the  success  was 
certain  if  the  prince  came  there,  for  dut  the 
Infanta  would  be  charmed  with  his  penonai 
appearance  and  polished  manners.  It  was  thus 
that  James,  seduced  by  these  two  ambassadors, 
and  by  his  parental  afHection  for  both  his  children, 
permitted  the  Prince  of  Wales  to  travel  into 
Spain."    This  account  differs  from  Clarendon. 

Wicquefort  says,  "that  James  in  all  this  was 
the  dupe  of  Go'ndomar,  who  well  knew  the  im- 
possibility of  this  marriage,  which  was  alike  ini- 
mical to  the  interests  of  politics  and  the  inqui>i- 
tion.  For  a  long  time  he  amused  his  m^est)* 
with  hopes,  and  even  got  money  for  the  house- 
hold expenses  of  the  future  queen.  He  acted  hu 
part  so  well,  that  the  King  of^  Spain  recompensed 
the  knave,  on  his  mum,  with  a  seat  in  the 
council  of  state."  There  is  preserved  in  the 
British  Museum  a  couMdcrable  series  of  letters 
which  passed  between  James  I.  and  the  Duke  oi 
Buckingham  and  Charles,  during  their  reudence 
in  Spain. 

I  shall  glean  some  further  parHculan  concern- 
ing this  mysterious  affair  from  two  English  con- 
temporaries, Howel  and  Wilson,  who  wrote  from 
their  own  observations.  Howel  had  been  em- 
ployed in  this  projected  match,  and  re^ed  during 
its  negotiation  at  Madrid. 

Howel  describes  the  first  interview  of  Prince 
Charles  and  the  Infanta.  He  says,  "  The  Infanta 
wore  a  blue  riband  about  her  arm,  that  the  prince 
might  distinguish  her,  and  as  soon  as  she  saw  the 
prince  her  colour  rose  very  high." — Wilson  in- 
forms us  that  "  two  days  after  their  interview  the 
prince  was  invited  to  run  at  the  ring,  where  his 
fair  mistress  was  a  spectator,  and  to  the  glory  of 
his  fortune,  and  th*  great  contentment  Both  of 
himself  and  the  lookers  on,  he  took  the  ring  the 


DUKE  OF  BUCKIKOHAM. 


vyit  "The  pcop^  hen  do  mightily  mignify  ihi 
plluiny  of  the  yoamey,  and  ciy  out  Ihit  he  dc 

bowctcTi  vjine  limearterto  doubl  if  Ebe  Ki^i^' 
•— ' -iy  religiim  «  all.    Ag»i-   ""  •■ ■-- 

■"""""sir. 

e\y  obscn'ed  that  Che  prince 

iein)''i>'''g"'U  a  lotec  in  one  o(  the 
mancci  coukl  Ivite  done.     He  once  Inpt 

tRitleiof  the  nhTiniiqiiii  who  then  guarded 


niched  b< 


^kingham  lo  H 
A  TrcaHiier  Mi 


implained  repeatedly 


in  laiouf  gf  IheCWholLc  religion,  without  ^ving 
any  imptdment  i  but  that  Kc  v-ould  nei-er,  d.- 

Ihe  /n/liBia  igalBil  tfae  Hnw."  They  pmbibly 
hid  tampered  u-itb  Chirin  concerniiu;  hi<  re- 
ligion.   A  Icltei  of  Oreg™?  XV.  lo  hnn  ■)  prc- 


himselt  jusiiee.  Tlib  insult  w«  never  forgiven ; 
Mnd  some  llrne  aftervarda  he  altetnpted  to  re- 
lenge  himicif  on  Buckingbam,  by  endeavouring 
to  persuade  Jamci  that  he  wii  at  the  head  of  a 

V-'c  hiulen  lo  conclude  theK  anecdotet  not  lo 
he  fonnd  in  the  pag«  of  Hume  and  smollell. — 
Wihon  ■!>>  that  bolh  kinjtdonii  lejolced,— "  ?r- 

Infanlai  a  new  church  vat  buill  at  St.  James->, 
Ihe  (oundaliDD-ilone  of  whirb  vaa  laid  by  Ihe 
Spanuh  ambanador,  for  Ihe  puhllc  exerclK  of  bar 
itli^oni  her  ponrail  wai  multiplied  In  eveiy 
cornet  of  the  lowni  nich  ai  hoped  to  Houtiih 


Ing^uT'  To  con- 


whom  he  could  nol  elfectually  a 


maniaK  wai  tnoken  off  Yr/  thai  penonal 


angb.m.^m^ 


alwayi  lillle  reapecled  hy  ita  iJ 


-.-  had."  u)!  Ihii  penelntlng  ohaeTvet  of  men, 
"Bngluh  familiarity  and  Fmeh  levltvi"  lo  Itaat 
*"-   — u  in  full  poneition  of  two  of  the  moat 

'  our  duke.    At  acbool  hli  character  lUly 
.  end  IDelf,  eten  at  that  enly  pciiod  of  Hfc. 
He  would  not  applr  to  any  Krioui  Hudlet,  but 

please  In  the  woild.    He  waa  a  eracefnl  lionenian, 

Khool  at  tb'  -arly  age  of  IhiReen,  and  he 

permitted  blm  to  induln  io  eiery  eaprlce,  and  to 
— '■"-lie  thoae    agreeable   lalenti    which   were 

opportunity  loon  prctenled  itself  i  for  Jamet  *a* 

him,  with  a  piodi^  band,  lh«  CDiuucopia  of  royal 
patronage. 

English  reader  in  the  general  obKri-ation  of  the 
that  day  wa>  conAned  to  het  bed )  ihe  did  Ihli  to 


by   Nani.   m^^^ 

11^11^.'  rot  w 


THE  liF.ATIt  OF  CIIAltT.HS  iX. 


•\ .  Bnrthohjmcw  Inrib  pUcc  In  the  Tcign  of  Chirtei 

nto  mmirnm^.    Tlir  iln^LUr  dculi  oE  Chirirt 
bx%  hmi  rwnln]  by  ihc  Hugneiud  u  m  inrpr- 

Ction  (i(  rHvine  jiutin  --  he  dicti  bkibtd  Id  hit 
■I,  whith  hnnt  ftom  hU  velm.  Tbr  homn 
of  Ihn  mtienblc  f^no;  on  lib  il^Hng  bed  tfc 
lonihly  depicKil  hjr  ibe  ■necdoin  i  un  mm 
npUecting.    I  ibiJI  pErmiKt  liowei-cr.  rhit  Chirtb 

Ibc  pojilml  iDd  irwl  CirthcriiK  nr  Medicii, 
Dr.  C..«.  .        ^  J|^"V"'"  """  ""^ 


'h]lc   I,  whhinit  hviiu  my  tcmxc*,  e]cpm>c<l   hlidealh. 

lyielf  fnrVf.    Tbe  Ukiki.  uf  Burkiniiluin,  wben  I     f  KhiR  Chutes,  fwlin;  Unsrir  n 

cnhieneirihe  kind  and  ni>!icll  ic3>'  vjnn,  Icipt  jutm  hivinK  paBcd  wnr  Onw  mlhi 


nidik!DL>  lictTivt  hit  nuipity  aibd  ntv,  (UHlalmiDK.  I  I'ins  ■  vi 
I  am  come  to  let  all  to  tidils  betwiit  you,  vbicE  side,  and 
I  think  ii  high  iiKK."  bnMhn!' 

CirdiMl  Klcbelien  baled  Bockin^un  n  tin-   immcduti 

cenljr  ai  did  the  ilpannh  OhviKt.  ^liH  cnmhf  ,  wjH  ifteni  ... _    ... 

WM  appircnll)'  owing  In  the  cardinal  wHIing  ID  ;  him,  tnnwd  hit  hack,  and  aoain  uid,  ■  Let  mj 
the  dutE  Kitlinal  IcavW  any  ipa«  onm  aftn  tbc  Irnithet  come  V  Tfae  qiKcn  bii  molber  Kplied, 
lilleDf  NoDHcnti  tbe<lDke,leibnw^l>eciii.-Uil7,   'Bir,  t  do  not  know  Whom  yon  mrani  ben  ii 


once  beiven  Ricbeieu  obKnln|[thcd}liiB 


nybRHbec.'   Theqi 


m  only  to  hnieu; 
iDdcT  Ibc  vauln.   TiKy  ireat  to  tbc 


.h'hirh   happened  to  Iwo  Bpaniih   Innh; — 11 - 

rigned  il  the  end  of  bn  letter,  ii  .Vorftiri  [th ^  i  cnndi ._. 

Htrfyu\  u  if  Ibe  title  IlkI  been  pn-uliar  la  hirmelf  ■  Kinfl  of  NavatK,  and  dnired  blot 
for  il>  cicelleni'e.    Hh  natioiul  vaiuljr  received  a  '  <pvafc  lo  tbe  fciiw  i  at  that  momcoi,  Ibit  pti 
dreatlhil  tepnof  fmm  bit  cnrmpomlvnt,  whrt, '  bai  >lnce  npeate^y  Hid,  be  felt  a  iliuddetinc  j 
jcahnii  of  bi>  viiiulily,  HKtKd  aTHU   Uai^mi   ipptebnriiunof  denhioniucli  llulbe  Knuja 

An  inei'dnle  loiea  by  Mr  HenO'  Wnttnn  oflun  a  ttw  qm 
charjclerittir  trait  of  Charki  anil  bii  ^miiiti.' :         meiiv 

"Ihey  wnmomeiitennlinlulliedcrp  lime nt' put  lilt 
Lent,  iDil  niuld  net  nn  fleib  Inm  their  ;•»■•'.  \to-niii 
wbcrnijimi  S-il  — 

'- —  "  liy  the  - 


i|[  Chatlr*  pi 
en  mniher  avon 


the  captaiD  re 


impanii'd  bv 
he  chb 

'X; 


of  tlK  hnne  In  the  manliw)  tclh  Hie  minjuk  he  i  no  harm  IhouM  hapim  lo  him.  The  acOdi 
cuDhI  nap  one  nf  the  klils  an<l  make  umiE  lUft  bowed,  and  Ibeir  behaiknir  vai  n^xelfni.  Ii 
lo  cam  him  clow  lo  their  Indpnia :  vhii  h  the  |  prlvaie  Miin-ue  Ik  cniered  lb*  chamber  of  iue 
prince  nverbearing, '  wliy,  Kiihald,'  uvt  he, ' do  -  lilng, who, tmmeiHatelv  on  pnetKitig hiin. Imed 
Jim  Ibink  von  rm>'  practice  here  tnur'  oU  Rkks  !  Invaidi  him,  and  Hnlcbed  out  hb  arma.  The 
again  upon  Ibe  Border)*  l>pon  wblch  wmd  Ibej'  KlntufKararre  waaaHected  :  he  ilihed  ud  w^t, 
AM  i-ai-e  the  gnat-bcnl  good  ronunlmcnt,  and  and  Aiil  on  bia  kneta  al  the  k&  of  Ibe  bed. 
then  while  Ibe  marquii  ind  Idi  tetianti,  being  Cborlei  embraced,  and  luting  ki«ed  him,  HliL 
hMhnnranl.werechaNnEtbckidahnutlbcflock,  I'Mt'brethiT.vinikMaipad  miatel  and  a  mot 
the  prince  fiombonKbKk  killed  him  in  the  bead  |  fdend.  Iknow  lib  not  inuwhooccaaktu  mcao 
with  a  Scouidi  piUoL  I.el  Ihh  Krre  liir  a  lanmal  much  tnmble  i  bad  t  belin-ed  what  ihey  taid,  you 
pircnlbtHi,  which  }■«  may  ihow  ho*  Im  high- .  wnuU  not  have  hem  alive  i  but  I  hate  alwayt 


THE  DEATH  C 


'The  nucen  malher  lifre  Inlemipted  him, 
h,  tir,  cCo  not  >ay  that1'— '  Yet,  madam,  t  mnK 
itj  it  i.  the  truth.    Beliere  me-my  brotberj 


e  followtng  Tnlnnle  partlculart   at 
the  journal  of  Herre  de  L-Eloile. 


BOYAL  PEOMOTfOKS. 


WTiicRi,  tbc  nu'M  inJ  Ihe  'nunaiiA-^^e  tcl 
icnume  of  Ihc  one,  ind  Ibe  mint  conuliU 

"  King  Cturin.  Iwo  da)i  )K%iire  Ms  dcith,  I ._ 

calleil  f«  Huillk,  hb  tbiti  phiiician,  nd  cooi- 
pliinlng  or  the  pidn  he  lullRed,  ukcd  him  if  It 

brucd  ph^uB  IbU  wr 

ulil  he,  'ondlr  ind  hin.._.^    

which  HufiUc  replied,  thit  *lHKvt 
pcndLil  on  Itaem  had  bcm  trteil,  liut  (hii  in  iniin 
ncid  onJy  could  be  the  lovcri'litn  shyndio  in  nch 
inrnpliinn.  ■  l  hoUcve,'  uid  tin  king, '  rhat  whil 
yon  ay  b  xne,  ind  ihil  tou  know  nolhing  cbc, 
Dnw  FHiin  me  mf  ntUit  (or  lain  cap),  thai  I 
may  try  to  »il.-  MazilUe  nilbtfrew.  and  led 
erden  that  aJl  ihoold  leave  Ihe  king  eacept  three, 

m:iieity  greatly  kited,  allMutrh  tht  wai  a  Iftrfw- 
iHI.  A<  she  had  jaH  leaKd  hmel(  on  ■  caller. 
and  beipn  lo  dine,  the  heard  the  kii^  groan 
hitKr1r,weep)i^and  ilghing  i  ihe  Iheo  approKbcd 
the  bed  wlliy,  and  draifting  away  hia  i  ■  ■  -> 
kioK  Hid  to  hct,  giiing  rent  to  a  heai 
•hcdding  lean  plenilTully,  iiuomacb 
Inlcmipted  hl>  dbcoune— '  Ah  t  riv  d 
my  beloved  woman,  what  blood  1  wha 


laied.    Halt  will  all  I 

(bug  addmsed  him  :- 
Ihme  wba   Caiced   j 

honour  of  God, 


id  will  cover  them 


look  lor  aid. 

weepinB."    Haiiog  nid  thiv  ibc  ro 
kerchief,  e»  hii  wn  drenched  with 
hating  taken  it  from  her,  madi 
ihould  retire  and  leave  him  to  re; 


Cbiiici,  who*  las  mJieiable  moment)  we  come 
Crom  centempUilIng,  when  he  obierted  iCTenl 
fugitive  Huguenola  about  hb  psiice  in  the  morn- 
ing after  the  maJiffcre  of  30,000  ol  their  friends. 


illraclcd  bl>  Impcrtal  eye  Ihil  he  raised  bim  la  an 


hi^rrtvg  or  viceroy  ol  the  file  of  C^-prus '. 

prcMment  1:^  captlctoiu  noiurchs  for  Ihe  sake  of 
a  Jcsl.  Levu  XI.  promoted  a  poor  print  whom 
he  found  slec^nji  in  the  porch  of  a  church,  thai 
Ibe  mncrb  might  lie  i-erilied,  thai  to  lucky  men 


l^nf-CKitl,  in  Leidcnhall 
derived  liom  annther  piece 
moiurch :  the  widow  of 
rewarded  by  the  gift  of  a 


monke>-  r 

his  Rabelaii  by  heart.  Thia  terved  to  inrroduce 
him  to  Ihe  Duke  of  Oiiean%  who  took  arcal  plea- 
gate  him  an  ahbey,  and  he  was  gradually  pio- 
moted  till  he  became  a  cardinal. 


B  pcnsioia,  after  ruining  the  Anancci  of  tdi 
The  Dnke  of  Luyne*  waa  ori^nilly  a  conntiy 

es)toca(cn  sparrows.    It  was  little  npected, 
m  mother  to  be  impri«nrd,  raised  himself  10 


ysreS'-ra 


than  .Mtiodi  tf  p-lftn«inl.- 
mSth  mlr"th?  15nl  il^'to 


NOBlLtrr.— MODES  OF  SALVTATWX,  fc. 


Urgt  I  thai  the  Jiv  ■Itu  Diey  mre  mlv  hctieli 
■o  aaay  friimii  tiut  on  the  third  digr  they  a 
Tnerclj  coniifkrcd  v  w  ■nunyjfAif'fjnrir*  And  wcr 
confinjndnl  unonK  the  crowd  of  couitlL-n,— It  vi 


.tESS. 

Hmry  iv.  rmjunnly : 
the  i^ncn  of  the  hdi 


high  tor  hit 
hau^llini 


reconkd  of  MiUip  the  Third  oT  Spain,  thai 
lie  exacted  the  moM  punctiliooi  respect 

neier  he  •ddrentd  hoi  on  the  kneni  f 

■"--^  '^ery  one  would  hnvt  ippored  ti 

He  ihowcd  himicU  tneLy  even  '— 

li^I  Ihc  better  lupport  hii 


<  uid  repreii  their  pride, 
si  them  if  they  did  not  guoi 


ir  "fS^a  ill  Vta^t  rl  itt  Cauam 
eveh  oUiET  in  ui  unkible  nunner,  i 
Utile  whether  they  mnve  ■  punfcuUr  { 
body,  nt  pnctrc  ■  panleular  ceieiiuniy. 
-ctioo)  then  mint  eiiit  dillnenl  (uitnii 


■niii  Inliidte  number  of  cc 


lit  of  the  l! 


To  berbd  and  prostnlv  or 

""lit  of  rwpecl,  uppcan  Id  Iw  t  natural 

terrlrini  penoiu  uiiow  thenueii'efl  on 

■n  Ihey  adcm 


inite  touch  of  the  penon  tliey  ulole  u  in  ex- 
decline  from  their  indent  ilmplicity, 
bod  ffrlmace  are  iutiodueed.  Hupenti- 
<  of  ■  peopki  and  their  ^tualLon, 


.It  of  dchcacy,  while 

able  for  ibtir  ainipliclly,  or  tbi  iikw  icpiiuiiiiy. 
In  Kikeral,  however,  they  are  A«]uently  the  aaine 

in  the  Infancy  of  naliam,  and  in  more  poUihed 


ESTwh^^ci 


mil,  or  they  dcapiK 
hli  he^nd  b 


the)maBaui». 
--■  ■-  body  beftm 

ke  the  hand 
Ihe>  gendr 


to  be  polite  in  an  idand  tiluited  in  the  urait^ 
"     ~     ul.    Houtnun  Idb  ui  they  ulutrd  hi_ 
pitnqae  manner ;  "  They  raned  ha  k<k 
ich  Ihey  pa«ied  gvnily  oi  er  the  ni^ht  Ic^ 

liUippinn  use  ■  mnt  complex  atli 
id  thiir  body  very  low,  place  their 
:hecki,  and  raiie  at  (he  lamc  lim 


in  the  air  with 


ooihn,  a 


llili  cu^om  of  undrnan 

place  themidre^  naked  before  the  pctsnn  v 
they  lalute ;  it  h  to  Aciw  their  humility,  and 
the^are  unworthy  of  appeariuM  in  iii^  pnaenct. 
This  was  practised  bdbre  Sir  Jroeph  BJnkB.  when 

Their  Innocent  Hinplicily,  no  doubt,  did  » 

pear  immndeit  in  the  ein of  the  rnf ixw. 

SDmetiirKi  they  onK  undrcm  partially. 

Japanne  only  take  off  a  illppeti  ihe  peiq 

'  — can  their  undaJi  in  the  rtreel,  and  ihnr  kdcIi- 

In  the  prope»of  time  It  appean  arrvile  t 
carer  nncaeir    The  grandea  of  Spain  clain 
right  of  apMaring  corcred  before  the  king,  to 
... —  .v_.  -t to  much  subjected  loliiB 

irt  'that  the  SmMik  d 

Hne  olHerrci,  that  noc 

^r  mnnq^iio  the  Franks  miHl 

ir  a>'nagO({ues  is,  doubtlcH, 


•A  of  a(Marii\ 


iva  to  Ae  people  who 
'ir  backion  their  friend^ 

of  ludicrous  actions,  and 


SINOULARITIES  OF  WAR. 


rbikroiu  niticru  Itcqiwnlly  imprint  oc  their 

when  the  inhabitant  of  Cumetia  (say*  Athr> 

they  breathed  a  vzin,  and  prcKnud  for  the  bc> 
venEE  of  their  friend  the  floviDi  blood.  The 
Franu  tore  the  hair  Irom  their  head,  and  pn- 
»nied  it  to  the  person  tlvey  saluted.  The  rtave 
nt  his  hair  and  offered  it  lo  hit  master. 
The  Chinese  are  singnlarty  affected  In  their  per- 

f  iheir  reverences.  These  ire  the  mwt  remark- 
ble  postuTct.  The  men  move  their  liands  in  an 
tTectionate  maAner,  while  IheyaTe  joined  together 
n  (he  breast,  anil  bow  their  bead  a  little.  If  Ibcy 


heir  eipreniom  m«an  as  lime  »  Ihdr  cere- 
. Aa.  Il^aChinae  is  asked  how  he  finds  him- 
self in  health)  he  answen,  rrr*  vhIIi  f*u*i  » 
ytut  abanitnl/ilitU}.  If  they  would  tell  ■  man 
that  he  look!  well,  ihcy  aay,  fnittrii}  ii  faimit 

it  von  render  them  any  scrricc,  Ihey  tay,  Mt 
llunii  liiiU  tt  mmtrul.  tf  you  praise  tfaem,  they 
answer,   Hnv   ilaa  I  itrt  u  prrwdf  n^lll/  ff 

leU  you  at  P^ni^  *^*™'  ""'  "'m^  ^0^'"' 
veni  liir  each  other  it  wmild  be  impoBibfc  to 


robe  I  all  these  and  other  Ihlnvs  arc  noticed,  even 
to  tile  silent  gestuTB  by  which  yon  are  entreated 
(o  enter  the  home.    The  lower  class  of  people  are 

pom  tony  days  in  practising  them  before  they  are 
enabled  lo  appear  at  court.  A  tribunal  of  cere- 
monies ha*  been  erected  i  and  every  day  very  odd 
decrees  are  isued,  to  which  the  Chinese  rnrist  reli- 

Tbe  marlis  of  honrmr  are  frequently  arUtraiy  j 

liariiy;  to  stand  up,  that  r>f  respect.  There  are 
countries,  however,  in  which  prince*  will  only  bt 
addresed  by  person*  who  are  veated,  and  II  is 
~ ' '  'deted  as  a  favour  to  be  permitled  to  stand  in 


ies  with  their  (teniusi  hV> 
*ewho  behold  him  prostritr 


nthusiasm,  and  thereTore  oi 


read  in  I>u  Hildc  that  Captain  Hanchcou,  a  Cbi- 

taining  a  complele  victory.  fn4  he  wa*  puni^ied. — 
with  such  a  perspective  al  the  conclusion  of  a 

thcmseT^  as  much  as  po^Me,  and  this  is  all  that 

■waddlinHlolbc*.— If  th^  should  happen  to  fall 
into  the  Sands  of  the  conquerors,  IhcywtPuld  ei- 

ian  Sat  the  vanquished  should  carry  them  away 

The  Spartans  were  not  allowed  to  combat  often 

quenlly,  they  were  accustomed  to  citerminate 


Ihey  poaKised'    Ttie  ytmth,  who  coulc 


were  dHrou*  of  displaying  llicir  paltlDtie  acil  i 
those  who  were  most  convinced  of  the  envenomed 
stale  of  their  body  perfumed  tbemselvcs,  and  went 
by  night  to  the  campof  Hie  enemy;  the  emse- 

w*ae  more  than  til  thousand  ^rtuguese  disabled 

with  venereal  maladies,  and  the  greater  pan  died. 

Hen  have  lyequently  fallen  into  unpardonable 


OB  profiled  by  these  piont 
f  Trent  ordered  the  body 


i8i 


FIRE,  ASD  THE  ORIGIX  OF  FIREWORKS. 


dcDily  Add*,  there  be  id  urgent  accenitj-. 


■iKicntt  employed  Am  it  tlKir  festivilt,  it  wn 
flpect»  or  an  iiulnimenl  of  tentJT.    In  both  Iboc 

lulphur ;  aitd  often,  be^jre  he  apeiu,  he  jrtncti 
Fire  vu  wonhjpped  u  a  divinity  by  itveral 

with  hit  people,  preceded  by  i  pillar  of  hre  i  and 
the  monuctu  01  Aji>,  according  In  Htmdolus 
commanded    th«t  aucb  enb^^M  cf  (heir  majedi' 


nd  if  tl  wai  oxd  tn  ihem  in  Iheii 
a>  rathn  emploieJ  for  ttie  cere- 
gion  thin  lor  i  pccaliir  mirt:  of 

cbtTwi.  The  liK  »  canfnily  DTT- 
VeuiU  nu  pnbablyin  imitulon 

■o  he  kindkd  in  the  public  pkice  of  crcty  rown 

The  Oreckt  JioEled  kampi  at  i  certain  feitf 
>e]J  in  bonnur  of  Mincn-i,  who  gave  them  od ; 


X  Prometheut.  who 


diughler,  wulcpt  by 


mmiUDi   niTlicuUiiv  in    1 
ohich  iwed  three  wh;>le  nigl 


^d  IrequAitky  (bed  by 


public  foim,  than  for  ihc  cerernoniea  of  religion  ; 
illuminitiou  were    made   at   the   hiptism    nf 

the*  weie  soi'na  to  enter  by  faith ;  of  it  the  tomha 
of  mamTi,  to  hght  them  during  the  watrhinp  of 
the  night.    AU  Ihoe  wcie  abuJiataed,  ftDin  the 

We  only  tnce  the  tiK  of  Jcmx  itjtii,  or  fire- 
ralis,  (riven  metelr  for  imusing  ipecticto  lo 


the  apecticle-    The>'  began  lb 

fem  of  Saint  John  the  Biptivt  ind  the  Aaump- 

meromipeeimeMof  thepageinn,  lTiumphi.ai 
proceflsionHi,  under  i  great  variety  of  grotefj^l 
forms: — dragons, iHUS  eaglea,  Ace,  which  we 

while  they  vomited  forth  the  mini  im'uiing  hr 

This  nae  p»ed  from  FloreiKe  to  Roine,  wher  , 
■t  tbe  creitioD  oi'  the  popei,  they  (tepLiycd  lUu> 
ninaliDiD  of  hand-srenidoa,  thrown  from   the 

hive  become  in  irt,  which,  in  the  d^ree  the  in- 
ventoti  hive  dttpT — '-'  -'--'=—'  --  "— .».i-i~~  »■»- 

have   produced  i 

de$criptioru  vitho 

"  ^Vniinci 


hiving  beheM  Ihem. 

it  of  decanted  tirevorts  b 


appateul  danger  oE  the  IiTe,  Although  i1 

peatcd;    ind    proper   preciuEicqu    hiv 
taken,  they  admired  the  beinly  of  the  I 


THE  BIBLE  PROHIBITED  AND  IMPROVED. 


oul  feuiTiE  it,  Ttaew  iniScial  tim  vc  dcKTibcd 
u  lurina;  been  ripidJy  ind  apLcndtdly  ^w^uled. 
The  exhibition  cLwd  with  « tnnMurcnt  trium- 
rlul  (Tcta.  uid  1  (DCUIn  lUnmliuted  by  Ihe  wiM 
lite,  ulTninibly  exbit^tinB  Ibe  p4Ucc  of  PlDto- — 
Around  the  columw,  itiuixjB  were  iucribed,  kup- 
poiled  hy  Cupidf^  with  other  fudfiil  embcUdii> 
mentA.  Amonfl  thoe  KItLe  piecei  of  poelry  ip- 
peiird   (he   laUowinir  one,   which   tugctuoiuly 


The  cihibinon  wu  grcttly  Lmproved.  jKcordlDi 
a  thli  picmiie  of  the  mitul.  Hit  labject  vt 
hoKnnlth  much  felicity:  llwui  icpmcntiUo! 


lentcd  A  deep  rai  brllliuit  | 


Thcpubijc 


happy  comUnilkoa  of  tnllidal 

wlm  iriiulng  iMaBbhtnenl  Iieb__ 

the  Tdcuw,  u  uliDknbly  idapled  to  the  fucur 
of  tfaoe  Hra.  At  uather  cnLotdnmeDt  he  gnu 
fied  the  pohUc  irilb  ■  reprefCDtalloD  of  Orphen 
uid  Burydice  la  hcU :   muij'  vtrlUng   cJn:uin 


THB  BIBLE  PROHIBfTED  AND  IMPROVED. 

In  Ihe  reguUtion  of  Ihe  popei  to  ptohibit  the  ok 
of  the  UNi. 

"AiiI«m>nirenby«if>riM«,  Ihil  If  Ihe  luc 
of  the  holy  wnters  h  permitted  In  t^  rujgtf 
tongue  mne  eril  thin  proAt  wLIJ  jiTiiie»  bftuuit 
at  tne  tefnerllT  at  rum  ;  It  ii  for  thii  reHan  ill 
Kiblei  ne  pioUblted  tpniiibiiiitr  BtMie)  with  ill 

prohibited  ill  luaniarin  or  ibrii^inenb  of  Blhln, 
nr  uiy  t>ooki  of  the  holy  vrititiA  illboaah  they 
fhould  only  he  hlBancil,  ind  Ihu  in  whatever 

II  ii  there  ibo  uid,  "Thit  Ihe  reiHlIng  the 
Bible*  of  C*tWu  rd'Um  may  be  pcnnltfcd  to 
rhOK  by  whoK  peruHj  or  po^A'tr  the  failh  mty 
be  sprciid,  And  who  will  not  ertiieut  it.    bat  thn 


ention,  the  biihep  ihouid 
It."'   And  indeed,  he  ob- 

lu  ■  «  uobk  lidy  nr  genllcvoaud 
t  pDiillirely  forbidden  to  lexl  it. 


igluid  in  the  time  of  oi 

Hon .  "  1^  hud  in  Bngllih  Bible,  and  lo  couced 
it  the  more  lecurely,  th^  nmcciFed  the  pmgeet  of 
bstcning  it  open   ¥Hth  nicklhrcidft  lertvi  the 

When  my  greu-gnnd&ther  wjihed  to  Trad  to  bii 

hii  kneci,  ind  pwcd  the  leant  lium  one  ibk  to 
the  other,  which  *rr  held  down  on  each  by  the 
packthread.    One  of  the  children  wu  Kitioned 


mUtate  on  whit  the  Mti  iul,  and  what  Ihey 
.  mbably  would  Ium  dant,  had  not  Lulher  bip- 
pily  been  In  a  humour  to  ibuK  the  pope,  and 
begin  a  kiroiHAinm.  It  would  be  cuiiouj  to 
ikeich  an  accoonl  of  the  fntatU  »iuitiun  of 
tuniv  at  Ihe  preKnt  mamenl.  had  the  ponllfli 
preieTYed  the  fingular  power  ot  which  uey  had 

Ii  per  rmfi^mtt  ihr  Liinary,  The  word  llbrwy 
waa  limited  in  iliHgiUlkalion  then  lo  Ibe  hriblicil 
wtilingi;  no  olhcr  book^,  compind  with  the  holy 
WTiliDgi,  appear  to  taaie  been  wgrlh,v  to  rank  with 


ip«e  the   Bible;    [>r.  Oediia'i  veition  la 

lilenl,  ibd  often  ludicroni  by  itivuigirityi 

ttempfs  are  of  a  iTry  dffFercnl 

tiUluK,  who  anerwardi  changed 

Hiiaet— took  a  very  evuwirdinary  libertv  with  the 
■acred  writinp.    He  fiBcieil  he  coulo  give  Ihe 

for  Ihli  parpoK  iDlroduced  phraiea  and  entire 

Wile  ityk  b  tiniciUy  <]uilnt, 


ORiam  OF  THE  MATERIALS  OF  WSITTSG. 


■  hdtlan1!£j?'ndvcl 


CAtutnipho, 
jf  Joseph  and 


Kyle.  "jDKph  combined  with  •  Tegularity  dT 
talm  one  of  the  mon  >iiii»bLr  men  in  Egypt."    At 

be  rgecced.  Joveph  al  fitil  only  itrplLed  Id  iJJ  htr 
«liba  by  bii  cold  HnbuTanmenu.    flbe  would 

■he  WH  (od  MHionate  to  viMc  even  (be  momenb 
of  hn  utoniibmcnl,"  Tbis  gdod  fuh«,  however, 
doa  unplc  juiuce  to  the  gaJbntir  of  Ihe  FMriirch 
Jicob.  He  offen  '  '  '  -        -  ' 


pAtriBKhi  ue  mfede  te 


Rftchel.  "  Nothing  w  too  much,"  cnes  the  veoe- 
uMe  novElHI,  "when  one  nilly  lote>i"  andthii 
idminbk  obacmtioo  he  confinm  br  <he  Encility 
with  which  the  obliDiiK  Rachel  aUdwi  Leih  far 
one  nHFbi  to  her  huund  I  In  tbi>  nunner  the 
(peak  In  the  tone  of  the 

OennaD  baion  i  and  their 

„ ..]lh  all  Ihe  recipfocal  poli- 

leac  of  meiiphyiital  pRnch  bnen  '■  Moaet  in  the 
doen,  it  wa«  obieRcd,  1i  precBdy  ii  pedantic  u 
Pen  Bcmiyer  addreiiing  big  dm  at  Ihe  unit  cr- 
•Ity.    One  cannot  bnt  imlle  at  the  Iblkniing  «• 

perfonned  miracla,   one  miKbl  eatily  perceire 

'*  AdventuR  ol   the    Patriarchi,"    he  procecdB, 

TTMing  adventure,"  &c.    Thi»  good   father  had 

■uch  perfect  ilcnplickty  that,  in  emplojins  It  on 
tacred  hiatorr,  be  wat  not  aware  at  the  Ludicrous 

A  Gothic  tnfhop  trannlated  (be  fteriptnies  into 
Ihe    Coth  language,  but  omitted   the  Saalf  af 


IkdHing,  alna 


naactinns,  andiii  too  many  eihiMt  i 


the  fJlheii  of  f» 
prohlbil  11 


^  ig-  Arcbbiihop  Ti 

design  of  purifying  the  hiTtorici 

lirablethat  Ihe  tame  ipirit  would 


the  finger  o 
iog,androi         . 

(ntened  1^  i  onall 
together.    They  aAcn 


tablet:    leadwai  U' 


.  tn  many  cabineu  may  be  found  the  dii- 
B  of  loidien,  written  on  copper-platct. 
:U9tom  haa  bom  diacovered  in  India :  a  hill 
Amenl  on   copper  has  been  dug  up  near 


».'K:! 


in  the  Sciipluiei. 


OSIGIJt  OF  TBE  MATERIALS  OF  WBITISQ. 


hiiilory  of  Mflbcmcl,  nam  lo  htve  tslicn  the 
ihauldcT-banc*  or  sli«p,  on  whLrh  th^  cirvvd 
Ttmickablc  events  wXh  i  knih:,  ind  lAcr  tying 
Ihem  wilh  •  «ring  Ihej'  hung  that  chroniclQ  up 

Tlieliwioflhctwth'F  (jbln  which  the  Romini 
chiefly  copied  From  Ihc  Grecitn  code  were*  ifter 
thej-  h»d  Imn  mpproved  by  Ihe  pnpk,  engtaren 
onbiBSj  they  were  mcllcd  by  Ufhming,  which 
jmick  the  Cipilol  ind  coiHiimed  olhn  Ian ;  i 
Lo»  highly  Rgretted  by  Auguitu).    Thii  minner 


writing!.    Thewell-C^Snei 


l«uii,  Ihil  it »»  worthy  w  be  »Titlen  on  iid^. 


as, 


r  emperor*  were  piib> 


Ctrai  imf^t  eapactir  Thij  thin  pule  of  wax  wu 
ibo  axi  on  tablcta  of  wood,  that  it  might  more 

wu  mide  ihjirp  it  dik  end  id  write  with,  ind 
blunt  *rw!  hroid  aX  the  other,  to  deficp  Mnd  cor- 
rect euily :  bence  the  phraw  -vftefi  itytum^  to 
lum  the  ttyliu,  wm  used  loexpren  bhitlingont. 
But  Ihe  Romin)  Ibrtudc  Ihe  uje  oflhii  Airp  In- 


Ihe  itylo  or  hii  own  Kholim.    They  lubililu  ted  i 

■'-' '-otthe  boneofibltd.ocotheur' — 

writinraraembledengrtvin^. 

■rui  iplit  like  our  ftiii  it  the  ; 


uaneoui  compwirkons ;  From  Ihi^  tible-bDaki 
ey  trinscribed  their  pertbrmarkcea  correclly  into 
irchmeni  boolia.  U  for  their  own  privitc  ute; 


■o  well  on  pip«r,  ind  Dbwrrea  thai  the  hvqucnt 
efsity  of  dipping  the  pen  in  (he  inlutind  reiirdi 


Pliutus,  1  fchoolboy  ii  repraenled  hreumg  hi 
millers  hud  with  nil  libK-btnk,  According  Ij 
Cicero,  i(  ippein  thil  the  critio  were  jiccuitomei 
in  reidingtheirWAKminuscripIilo  notice  otiscun 
w  vicious  phnuea  hy  joining  i  piece  of  red  wii 
u  we  ihould  underline  nich^y  red  ink. 

And  >  ptmull  ftlului  feloDslie, 

And  WTOte  ilwika  ihe  nimei,  u  he  itood, 

or  ill  Ibike,  thit  give  hem  any  good." 


1  iron  ilyU.    Tible-book< 


i  ind  Ihe  eiprevian  of  tibrai 

tor  their  liu  were  called  ikflaniiiu 
ant;  imongthekomiruthey were 


el  mode  ot  writing  oceaaioned  tbem  I 
""!'";"',['">?*'  "  rtteive  ibeit 


1 86 


ORIGIN  OF  THE  MATERIALS  OF  WRITING. 


&c.  were  once  written  the  Iliad  and  Odvney. 
The  drst  place  where  they  began  to  dress  'these 
skins  was  PergamuSt  in  Asia  ;  ak  hence  the  Latin 
name  is  derived  of  Pergamenjr  or  parchment. 
These  skins  are,  however,  better  known  amongst 
the  authors  of  the  purest  Latin  under  the  name  of 
ffumbrana ;  so  railed  from  the  membranes  of 
various  animali  of  which  they  were  composed. 
The  ancients  had  parchments  of  three  different 
colours,  white,  yellow,  and  purnle.  At  Rome 
white  parchment  was  disliked,  because  it  was 
more  subject  to  l>e  soiled  than  ttte  others,  and 
dazzled  the  eye.  They  generally  wrote  in  letters 
of  gold  and  silver  on  purple  or  violet  parchment. 
This  custom  continucrd  in  the  early  ages  of  the 
church ;  and  copies  of  the  evangelists  of  this  kmd 
are  preserved  in  the  British  Museum. 

U'hcn  the  Eg>-ptians  employed  for  writing  the 
bark  of  a  plant  or  reed^  called  papyrus  or  paper- 
rush,  it  superseded  all  former  modes,  from  its  con- 
venience. Formerlv  it  grew  in  great  (]uantities  on 
the  sides  of  the  Nile.  This  plant  has  given  its 
name  to  our  paper,  although  the  latter  is  now 
composed  of  linen  or  rags,  and  formerly  had  been 
of  cotton  wool,  which  was  but  brittle  and  yellow  ; 
and  improved  by  using  cotton-rags,  which  they 
glazed.  After  the  eighth  ccntur\'  the  papmis  was 
supeneded  by  parchment.  Tfje  Chinese  make 
their  paper  with  silk.  The  use  of  paper  is  of  great 
antiquity.  It  is  what  the  ancient  Latinists  call 
charta  or  charts.  Before  the  use  of  parchment  and 
paper  passed  to  the  Romans,  they  used  the  thin 
peel  found  between  the  wood  and  the  bark  of 
trees.  This  skinny  substance  they  called  Itber, 
from  whence  the  Latin  word  liber,  a  book,  and 
library  and  librarian  in  the  European  languages, 
and  tne  French  Inie  for  l)ook ;  but  we  of  nortliem 
origin  derive  our  bonk  from  the  Danish  bo^,  the 
beech-tree,  because  that  iMring  the  most  plentiful 
in  Denm;trk  was  used  to  engrave  on.  Anciently, 
instead  of  folding  thi»  bark,  this  parchment,  or 
paper,  as  we  fold  ours,  they  rolled  it  according  as 
they  wrote  on  it ;  and  the  Latin  name  which  tney 
gave  thev:  niUs  has  passed  into  our  langtiage  as 
well  as  the  others.  We  say  a  volume  or  volumes, 
although  our  books  are  composed  of  pages  cut 
and  bound  together.  The  t)ooks  of  the  ancients 
on  the  Miclves  of  their  libraries  were  rolled  up  on 
a  pin  and  placed  erect,  titled  on  the  outside  in  red 
letters,  or  rubrics,  and  appeared  like  a  number  of 
small  pillars  on  the  shelves. 

The  ancients  were  as  curious  as  ourselves  in 
ha\  ing  thef[JxK>ks  richly  Cfinditioned.  Propertiu* 
devril)es  tablets  with  gold  borders,  and  Ovid 
notices  their  red  titles ;  but  in  later  times,  besides 
the  tint  of  purple  with  which  they  tinged  their 
'  vellum,  and  the  liquid  gold  which  the>-  employed 
for  their  ink,  they  enriched  with  precious  stones 
the  covers  of  their  books.  In  the  early  ages  of  the 
church  they  painted  on  the  outside  commonly  a 
dying  Clirist.  In  the  curious  librar>'  of  Mr.  Doiice 
is  a  Psalter,  supposed  once  to  have 'appertained  to 
Charlemagne ;  the  vellum  is  purple,  and  the  letter* 
gold.  The  Eastern  natioas  Iikeui»e  tinged  their 
Miis.  with  different  coloun  and  decorations.  Astle 
possessed  Arabian  mss.  of  which  some  leai-es  were 
of  a  deep  yellow,  and  others  of  a  lilac  colour.  Sir 
William  Jones  describes  an  oriental  ms.  in  which 
the  name  of  Mohammed  was  fancifully  adorned 


with  a  nrland  of  tulips  and  cama^on*,  painted  to 
the  brigntest  colours.  The  favourite  works  of  tly 
Peisuns  are  written  on  fine  silky  paper,  the  gmund 
of  which  is  often  powdered  with  gold  or  silver 
dust ;  the  leaves  are  frequently  illuminated,  uid 
the  whole  book  is  sometimes  perfumed  with 
essence  of  roses  or  sandal  wood.  The  Romans 
had  several  sorts  of  paper  to  which  they  had  given 
different  names ;  one  was  the  Charta  Augusta^  in 
compliment  to  the  emperor,  another  Lrfianm^ 
named  after  the  empress.  There  was  a  Ckartet 
blanca,  which  obtained  its  title  from  its  beautiful 
whiteness,  and  which  we  appear  to  have  retainol 
by  applying  it  to  a  blank  sheet  of  paper  which  is 
only  signed — Charte  blanche.  They  had  also  a 
Charta  nigra  painted  black,  and  the  letten  were 
in  white  or  other  colours. 

Our  present  paper  surpasses  all  other  materials 
for  ease  and  convenience  of  writing.  The  tint 
paper-mill  in  England  was  erected  at  DutStrrd, 
by  a  German,  in  1588,  who  was  knighted  bs- 
Elizabeth  ;  but  it  was  not  before  1913  that  one 
Thomas  Watkias,  a  stationer,  brought  the  art  of 
paper-making  to  any  perfection,  and  to  the  industry 
of  this  individual  we  owe  the  origin  of  oar  namC' 
rous  paper-mills.  France  had  hitherto  supplied 
England  and  Holland. 

The  manufacture  of  paper  was  not  much  en> 
couraged  at  home,  even  so  late  as  in  i66a ;  and 
the  following  obs<j\'ations  by  Fuller  are  curious, 
respecting  the  paper  of  his  times.  "Paper  par- 
ticipates in  some  sort  of  the  characters  of  the 
countr>'  which  makes  it ;  the  Venetian,  being  neat, 
subtile,  and  court-like  ;  the  French,  light,  slight, 
and  slender  ;  and  the  Dutch,  thick,  corpulent,  aod 
gross,  sucking  up  the  ink  v*ith  the  spongine» 
thereof."  He  complains  that  the  paper  manu- 
factories  were  not  then  sulficientlv  encouraged, 
"  couMtlering  the  *-ast  sums  expcndfed  in  our  land 
for  paper,  out  of  Italy,  France,  and  Germany, 
which  might  be  levehed  u-ere  it  made  in  our 
nation.  To  such  who  object  that  we  can  ne*er 
e<iual  the  perfection  of  fen  ice  paper,  I  return, 
neither  can  we  match  the  purity  of  Venice  glasaes ; 
and  yet  manv  green  ones  are  blown  in  Sussex, 
prohtable  to  the  makers,  and  convenient  for  the 
users.  Our  homespun  paper  might  be  f<»und  bene- 
licial."  'Ilie  present  German  printing-paper  is 
made  so  disagreeable  both  to  printers  and  readers 
fnim  their  paper  manufacturers  making  many 
more  reams  of  paper  from  one  cwt.  of  rags  than 
formerly.  Rags  are  scarce,  and  German  writers, 
as  well  as  the  language,  are  %-oluminous. 

Mr.  Astle  deeply  complains  of  the  interinritv  of 
our  inks  to  tliose  of  antiquity  ;  an  inferiority  pro- 
ductive of  the  most  serious  con9e<)uences,  and 
which  appears  to  originate  merelyJn  negligence. 
From  the  important  ticnetits  arising  to  society 
from  the  uac  of  ink,  and  the  injuries  individuals 
may  sutler  from  the  frauds  of  designing  men, 
he  'wishes  the  legislature  would  frame  son>e  new 
regulations  respecting  it.  The  composition  of 
ink  is  simple,  but  we  possess  none  equal  in 
beauty  and  colour  to  that  used  by  the  ancients; 
the  Saxon  mss.  written  in  England  exceed  in 
colour  anything  of  the  kind.  The  rolls  and 
records  from  the  fifteenth  century  to  the  end 
of  the  seventeenth,  compared  with  those  of  the 
fifth  to  the  twelfth  centuries,  show   the  excel- 


AXECDOTES  OF  EUROPEAN  MANNERS. 
r  onn.  vhicb  (re  tU  in  the 


nuT  ink ;  whereu  utt  or  tviry-bltek  w»  (he  chjc 

Ink  hu  been  ni«le  of  vuious  colourt :  ve  Ani 
Eold  (nd  iiItr-  Lnli,  md  red,  green,  yellow,  «ni 
bl«  inki ;  but  the  black  i<  cooiidenj  u  lb«  bei 


•  BUROrBAN  MANHRRS. 

Thi  foIlowlnE  circumgtances  prsbibly  give  riv 
^  -•..  . ,  ...,  ,_j..  pti„n._  tiitn  Ih. 


The  ^iij/lrfif  a(  the  ( 


The  n _— 

linquhb  their  titrf :  if  they  tiw  thenuelvei  loilng 
ground)  they  brought  to  tbeir  wiLli  the  ickki  m 
»mr  laint.  Then  it  «nenlLy  hippcned  that  tbe 
asuilantg,  Klied  wilK  awful  cencmion,  rctiied, 

the  oriirin  of  the  inilianOti,  of  iRe  inr^flmnls, 
•nd  al  the  imluniiti   caitlti  dcKribed   in   ro- 

To   iheK  mijr  be  idded  what  the  author  of 


lo  invent  bo  many  fabin  eoncemlng  pnnceveB  of 
great  beauty  guanted  by  dragtai. 

during  tni»  periotl;  it  comifled  in  punUhmenti 

Ibboti,  irutead  of  beitoiiinK  eannniial  penajtiea 


cathedrals  of  the  kiiwloin.  wa^  held  Ihe  FiMt  9f 

lembled  eleeted  a  pope,  an  archbiihop.  or  u  bishop^ 
conducted  tbem  in  grifit  pomp  In  the  church, 
whieh  they  rntetrd  fencing,  muked,  ind  drcMed 


lnd™i  «ini  infamoMionp, 


f^ayrdwilhc 


a  preTty  intiDI.  In  Ihb  Kat^  lollowed  by  the 
bishop  and  clergx',  she  marched  in  procenion 
[mm  the caihedtfl  loiheehnnbof  si.  Stephen's; 


ntered  into  the  h 


They  at  length  exhorted  hi 

-~~uflexiaD,  to  fiwget  hii 

poK    of    repeating  wj „,     . 

M.    The  piieit,  liuteail  o(  Ht  nana  til.  u 
s  timei,  AMoii,  Utoi.  Mian  .' and  Ihe  pes 

iTlr^berU 

e   another   apok. 

indeed  bnr  a  piece  o(  cold  pleasantry — that  all 
Bristol  could  not  afford  him  ont  t 

tiibils  cler^men  ibot  only  from  playiuH  at  eheia. 
bnt  even  from   harinf>   a   chew-board   in  their 

bulTaonery.  a  prince  preferred  death  raiher  thin 

chaMitv.     [.ouis  VIII.  being  dai^rously  ill.  the 
ph)-sician>  consulted,  and  agreed  lo  place  neat 


188 


ANECDOTES  OF  EUROPEAN  MANNERS. 


fnl  lady»  who,  when  he  awoke,  showld  infonn 
hun  or  the  motive  which  had  conducted  her  to 
him.  Loui4  answered,  "No,  my  girl,  I  prefer 
dying  rather  than  to  save  my  life  oy  a  mortal 
tin !"  And,  in  fact,  the  good  king  died !  He 
would  not  be  prescribed  Tor,  out  of  the  whole 
Pharmacopoeia  of  Love  I 

An  account  of  our  taste  in  female  beauty  is 
given  by  Mr.  Ellis,  who  observes,  in  his  notes  to 
Wray's  Fabliaux,  "  In  the  times  of  chivalry  the 
minstrels  deal  with  great  complacency  on  the  ftur 
hair  and  delicate  complexion  of  their  damsels. 
This  taste  was  continued  for  a  long  time»  and  to 
render  the  hair  light  was  a  great  object  of  educa- 
tion.  Rven  when  wigs  first  came  into  fashion 
they  were  all  flaxen.  Such  was  the  colour  of  the 
Ciaiils  and  of  their  German  conquerors.  It  re- 
(luireil  Mime  centuries  to  reconcile  their  eyes  to 
tnc  swarthy  beauties  of  their  Spanish  and  their 
Italian  neighbours." 

The  following  is  an  amusing  anecdote  of  the 
dlfruultv  in  which  an  honest  Vicar  of  Bray  found 
himself  m  tho«  contentious  times. 

When  the  court  of  Rome,  under  the  ponti- 
ficateft  of  Gregor>'  IX.  and  Innocent  IV.,  set  no 
bounds  to  their  ambitious  proiects,  thev  were 
opposed  by  the  P.mperor  Frederick,  who  was 
of  course  an  at  hem  at  ivd.  A  curate  of  Paris,  a 
humorous  follow,  got  up  in  his  pulpit  with  the 
bull  of  Innocent  in  his  hand.  "  You  know,  my 
brethren  (uid  he)  that  I  am  ordered  to  proclaim 
an  excommunication  against  Frederick.  1  am 
ignorant  of  the  motive.  All  that  I  know  is,  that 
tnere  exist  between  this  Prince  and  the  Roman 
Pontiff  great  differences,  and  an  irreconcileable 
hatred.  CJod  only  knows  which  of  the  two  is 
wrong.  Therefore  with  all  my  power  I  cxcom- 
munieate  him  who  injures  the  other;  and  I  ab- 
solve  him  who  sutlers,  to  the  great  scandal  of  all 
Christianity." 

The  following  anecdotes  relate  to  a  period  which 
is  sufficiently  remote  to  excite  curiosity,  yet  not  so 
distant  as  to  weaken  the  interest  we  feel  in  those 
minutior  of  the  times. 

The  present  one  may  scr\'e  as  a  curious  spe- 
cimen of  the  despotism  and  simplicity  of  an  age 
not  literar>',  in  discovering  the  author  of  a  libel. 
It  took  place  in  the  reign  of  Henry  VIII.  A 
great  iealousy  subsisted  l>etween  the  Londoners 
and  tnose  foreigners  who  traded  here.  The 
foreigners  probably  (observes  Mr.  Lodge,  in  his 
Illustrations  of  English  Histor\-)  worked  cheaper 
and  were  more  industrious. 

There  was  a  libel  ailixed  on  St.  Paul's  door, 
which  reflected  on  Henr>'  VIII.  and  these  fo- 
reigners, who  were  accused  of  buying  up  the 
wool  with  the  king's  money,  to  the  undoing  of 
Englishmen.  This  tended  to  inflame  the  mmds 
of  the  p^ple.  The  method  adopted  to  discover 
the  writer  of  the  libel  must  excite  a  smile  in 
the  present  day,  while  it  shows  the  state  in  which 
knowledge  must  have  been  in  this  countr>'.  The 
plan  adopted  was  this :  In  every  ward  one  of  the 
King's  council,  with  an  alderman  of  the  same, 
was  cocnmanded  to  see  every  nwn  write  that 
conid,  and  further  took  every  man's  book  and 
sealed  them,  and  brought  them  to  Guildhall  to 
confront  them  with  the  original.  So  that  if 
of  this  number  many  wrote  alike,  the  judges 


must  have  been  much  puzzled  to  fix  on  the  cri- 
minal. 

Our  hours  of  refection  are  singularly  changed 
in  little  more  than  two  centuries.  In'  the  rctgn 
of  Francis  I.  (observes  the  author  of  R6cr6atiom 
Historiques)  they  were  accustomed  to  say. 

Lever  k  cinq,  diner  i  neuf, 
Souper  k  cinq,  coucher  k  neaf. 
Fait  vivre  d'ans  nonante  et  neuf. 

Historiaiu  observe  of  Louis  xn.  that  one  of 
the  causes  which  contributed  to  hasten  his  death 
was  the  entire  change  of  his  regimen.  The  good 
king,  br  the  persussion  of  his  wife,  sayv  the  his- 
toty  of  Bayard,  changed  his  manner  of  ItritM : 
when  he  was  accustomed  to  dine  at  ciriit  o'cIool, 
he  agreed  to  dine  at  twelve ;  and  when  he  was 
used  to  retire  at  six  o'clock  in  the  evening,  be  fre- 
quently sat  up  as  late  as  midnight. 

Houssaie  gives  the  following  authentic  notice 
drawn  from  the  registers  of  the  court,  which  pre- 
sents a  curious  account  of  domestic  life  in  the 
fifteenth  century.  Of  the  dauphin  Louis,  son  of 
Charles  VI.,  who  died  at  the  age  of  twenty,  we 
are  told,  "that  he  knew  the  Latin  and  French 
languages;  that  he  had  many  musicians  in  his 
chapel ;  paned  the  night  in  vi^ls  ;  dined  at  three 
in  the  afternoon,  supped  at  midnight,  went  to  bed 
at  the  break  of  day,  and  thus  was  asceruni  (that  is, 
threatened)  with  a  short  life."  Froissart  mentions 
waiting  upon  the  Duke  of  Lancaster  at  fire  o'clock 
in  the  afternoon,  when  he  had  supped. 

The  custom  of  dining  at  nine  in  the  moraing 
relaxed  greatly  under  Francis  I.,  his  successor. 
However,  persons  of  quality  dined  then  the  latest 
at  ten;  and  supper  was  at  five  or  six  in  the 
evening.  We  may  obser^-e  this  in  the  preface  to 
the  Hepuemeron  of  the  Queen  of  Navarre,  where 
this  princess  delineating  the  mode  of  life  which 
the  lords  and  ladies  (whom  she  asitembles  at  the 
castle  of  Madame  0>-sille,  one  of  her  characters) 
should  follow  to  be  agreeably  occupied,  and  to 
banish  languor,  thus  expre«es  herself :  "  As  soon 
as  the  morning  rose,  they  went  to  the  chamber  of 
Madame  Oystlle,  whom  they  found  already  at  her 

{irayers ;  and  when  thev  had  heard  during  a  good 
lour  her  lecture,  and  then  the  mass,  they  went  to 
dine  at  ten  o'clock ;  and  afterwards  each  retired 
to  his  room  to  do  what  was  wanted,  and  did  not 
fail  at  noon  to  meet  in  the  meadow."  Speaking 
of  the  end  of  this  first  day  (which  was  in  Septem- 
ber) the  same  lady  Oysille  sa\-s,  *'  Say  where  is  the 
sun ;  and  hear  the  bell  of  the  Abbe}',  which  has 
for  some  time  called  us  to  vespers ;  and  in  saying 
this  they  all  rose  and  went  to  the  religionists,  '%vk9 
had  'waited  for  them  above  an  hour.  Vespen 
heard,  they  went  to  supper,  and  after  having 
played  a  thousand  sports  m  the  meadow,  they  re- 
tired to  bed."  All  this  exactly  corre^ionds  with 
the  lines  above  quoted.  Chaiiies  V.  of  France, 
however,  who  lived  near  two  centuries  before 
Francis,  dined  at  ten,  supped  at  seven,  and  all  the 
court  was  in  bed  by  nine  o'clock.  T^ey  sounded 
the  curfew,  which  bell  warned  them  to  cover 
their  fire,  at  six  in  the  winter,  and  between  eight 
and  nine  in  the  summer.  A  custom  which  exuts 
in  most  relig^ious  societies :  who  did  not  then  dis- 
tinguish themselves  from  the  ordinary  practice. 
(This  was  written  in  1767.)    Under  the  reiga  cf 

■      .  .  ■    ■!■■  I  ■  U      ■  III.-  .         - 


i 


MHM 


ANECDOTES  OF  EUROPEAN  MANNERS. 


189 


Hmry  IV.  the  hour  of  dinner  at  court  was  eleven, 
or  "kt  nooa  the  latest ;  a  custom  which  prerailed 
even  in  the  earlf  part  of  the  reign  of  Louis  XIV. 
In  the  provinces  distant  from  Paris,  it  is  very 
commoa  to  dine  at  nine ;  they  nuke  a  second 
repAst  about  two  o'clock,  and  sup  at  five;  and 
ttiar  last  meal  b  made  just  before  they  retire  to 
bed.  Tlie  labourers  and  peasants  in  France  have 
prcaerved  thb  custom,  and  make  three  meab ;  one 
at  nine,  another  at  three,  and  the  last  at  the  sitting 
of  the  son. 

The  Marquis  of  Mirabeau,  in  "L'Ami  des 
Hommcs,"  Vol.  I.  p..a6i,  gives  a  striking  repre- 
sentation of  the  singular  industry  of  the  French 
citizens  of  that  age.  He  had  leamt  from  several 
ancient  dtixens  of  Paris,  that  if  in  their  youth 
a  workman  did  not  work  two  hours  by  candle- 
fisfat,  either  in  the  momine  or  evenine  (he  even 
adds  in  the  longest  davs;,  ne  would  have  been 
noted  aa  an  idler,  and  would  not  have  found 
penoi»  to  employ  him.  Mirabeau  addi,  that  it 
was  the  lath  of  May,  1588,  when  Henry  m. 
orJcred  his  troops  to  occup^  various  posts  at 
Paris.  Davila  writes,  that  the  inhabitants,  warned 
by  the  noise  of  the  drums,  began  to  shut  their 
doon  and  shops,  which,  accordine  to  the  custom 
of  that  town  to  work  before  da>'Dreak,  were  al- 
ready opened.  Thb  must  have  been,  taking  it 
at  the  latest,  about  four  in  the  morning.  "  In 
1750,**  adds  the  ingenious  writer,  **l  walked  on 
that  day  thronsjh  Paris  at  full  six  in  the  morning ; 
I  passed  throuapD  the  most  busy  and  populous  part 
of  the  city,  and  I  only  saw  open  some  stalls  of  the 
venders  of  brandy  1" 

To  the  article,  "Anecdotes  of  Fashions,"  we 
may  add,  that  in  England  a  taste  for  splendid 
dress  existed  in  the  reign  of  Henry  VII.;  as 
b  observable  by  the  follovring  description  of 
Hicbolas  Lord  Vaux.  "  In  the  17th  of  that  reign, 
at  the  marriage  of  Prince  Arthur,  the  brave 
young  Vaux  appeared  in  a  gown  of  purple 
velvet,  adorned  with  pieces  of  gold  so  thick 
and  massive,  that  exclusive  of  the  silk  and  furs, 
it  was  valued  at  a  thousand  pounds.  About  his 
neck  he  wore  a  collar  of  8.  S.,  weiring  eight 
hundred  pounds  in  nobles.  In  those  days  it  not 
only  required  great  bodily  strength  to  support  the 
weight  of  their  cumbersome  armour ;  their  very 
luxury  of  apparel  for  the  drawing-room  would 
oppress  a  system  of  modem  mascles." 

In  the'  following  reign,  according  to  the 
monarch's  and  Wobey's  magnificent  taste,  their 
drea  was,  perhaps,  more  generally  sumptuous. 
We  then  find  the  following  rich  ornaments  in 
vogue.  Shirts  and  shifts  were  embroidered  with 
gokl,  and  bordered  with  lace.  Strutt  notices 
also  perfumed  gloves  lined  with  white  velvet,  and 
splendidly  woned  with  embroidery  and  gold 
buttons.  Not  only  gloves,  but  various  other  parts 
of  their  habits,  were  perfumed ;  shoes  were  made 
of  Spanish  perfumed  skins. 

Carri^es  were  not  then  used ;  so  that  lords 
would  cany  princesses  on  a  pillion  behind  them, 
and  in  wet  weadier  the  ladies  covered  their  heads 
with  hoods  of  oil-cloth ;  a  custom  that  has  been 
generally  omtinued  to  the  middle  of  the  seven- 
teenth century.  The  use  of  coaches  was  intro- 
duced into  En^and  by  Fitxalan  Earl  of  Arundel, 
in  1580,  and  at  first  were  only  drawn  by  a  pair  of 


horses.  The  favourite  Buckingham,  about  1619, 
bnpui  to  have  them  drawn  by  six  horses;  and 
wDson,  in  his  life  df  James  I.,  telb  us  thb  *'  was 
wondered  at  as  a  novelty,  and  imputed  to  him  as 
a  mastering  pride."  The  same  arbiter  eUgantia- 
rum  introduced  sedan-chairs.  In  Prance,  Cathe- 
rine of  Medicb  was  the  first  who  used  a  coach, 
which  had  leathern  doors,  and  curtains  instead  of 
glass  windows.  If  the  carriage  of  Heniv  IV.  had 
bad  glass  windows,  thb  circumstance  might  have 
saved  hb  life.  Carriages  were  so  rare  in  the 
reign  of  thb  monarch,  that  in  a  letter  to  hb 
minister  Sully,  he  notices  that  having  taken  medi- 
cine that  day,  though  he  had  intended  to  have 
called  on  him,  be  was  prevented,  because  the 
queen  had  gone  out  with  the  carri^e.  Even  as 
Ute  as  in  the  reign  of  Louis  XIV.  the  courtiers 
rode  on  horseback  to  their  dinner  parties,  and  wore 
their  light  boots  and  spurs.  Count  Hamilton  de- 
scribes hb  boots  of  white  Spanish  leather  with 
gold  spurs. 

Saint  Foix  observes,  that  in  1658  there  were 
only  J 10  coaches  in  Paris,  and  in  1758  there  were 
more  than  14,000. 

Strutt  has  judiciously  observed,  that  though 
"luxury  and  grandeur  were  so  much  affected, 
and  appearances  of  state  and  splendour  carried  to 
such  liengths,  we  mav  conclude  that  their  house- 
hold furniture  and  domestic  necessaries  were  also 
carefully  attended  to :  on  passing  through  their 
houses,  we  may  expect  to  be  surprised  at  the 
neatness,  elegance,  and  superb  appearance  of  each 
room,  and  the  suitableness  of  every  ornament ; 
but  herein  we  may  be  deceived.  The  taste  of 
elegance  amongst  our  ancestors  was  very  diffiercnt 
from  the  present,  and  however  we  mav  find  them 
extravagant  in  their  apparel,  excessive  in  their 
banquets,  and  expensive  in  their  trains  of  at- 
tendants; yet,  follow  them  home,  and  within 
their  houses  you  shall  find  their  furniture  b 
plain  and  homely;  no  great  choice,  but  what 
was  useful,  rather  than  any  for  ornament  or 
show." 

Erasmus,  as  ouoted  by  Jortin,  confirms  this 
account,  and  makes  it  worse  ;  he  gives  a  curious 
account  of  English  dirtinest ;  he  ascribes  the 
plague  from  which  England  was  hardly  ever  free, 
and  the  sweating-sickness,  partly  to  the  incom- 
modious form,  and  bad  exposition  of  the  houses, 
to  the  filthiness  of  the  streets,  and  to  the  sluttiih- 
ness  within  doors.  The  floors,  says  he,  are  com- 
monly of  clay,  strewed  with  rushes ;  under  which 
lies,  unmolested,  an  ancient  collection  of  beer, 
grease,  fragments,  bones,  spittle,  excrements  of 
dogs  and  cats,  and  everything  that  b  nasty." 

I  shall  give  a  sketch  of  tne  domestic  life  of  a 
nobleman  in  the  reign  of  Charles  the  First,  fVom 
the  "  Life  of  the  Duke  of  Newcastle,"  written  by 
hb  Duchess,  whom  I  have  already  noticed.  It 
might  have  been  impertinent  at  the  time  of  its 
publication ;  it  will  now  please  those  who  are 
curious  about  English  manners. 

"  Of  hb  Habit. 
"  He  accoutres  his  person  according  to  the 
fashion,  if  it  be  one  that  is  not  troublesome  and 
uneasy  for  men  of  heroic  exereises  and  actions. 
He  is  neat  and  cleanly ;  which  makes  him  to  be 
somewhat  long  in  dressing,  though  not  so  long 


Ji 


)9o                                            THE  EARLY  DRAMA. 

u  minv  effcminjte  pcnoiu  inr.     He  ihilb  m- 

to  trace  the  caprica  it  indulgeii   and  thai  the 

ewys  of  Greece,  of  ftance,  of  Spain,  of  Engbnd, 

ordraaij-.               ^ 

and,  whit  appeaia  cnaordioary,  even  of  Cfaina 

and  MciicD. 

"In  hit  diet  he  ii  u  spuing  and  wmpeiatc, 
that    he  never  eati  ooi  Jiinki  beyond  hl<  lel 

are  lufficicDIIy  tnoirn.  and  the  old  myiirri<i  of 
Europe  hive  been  eihibiied  in  Ihe   preaent  vo. 
lumc.    The  piogrea  of  the  French   theaire   ha. 

tite;   he  makc9  but  one  mc^  a  d.v.  al  wtith 

he  diinkj  two  gcxHl  Klawi  of  imali  Imi.  one 
about  the  beginn^n);.  the  other  at  the  eod  thereof, 
and  a  liitle  elan  of  lack  in  the  middle  of  hii 

Etienne  JodeUe.  in  ijji,  lecnu  to  have  been 

d.nnei ;  whicTi  bLi»  of  laik  he  al»  um  in  the 
morning  foi  hisbTeakfan,  with  a  moncl  oF  bread. 

scrvUe  imiution    of  the  form  of  the   Crecian 

Hit  Hipper  convH-i  of  in  egg  and  a  draught  of 
unall  1^.    And  by  thi.  t^pennce  he  lind. 

irigedri  but  if  this  did  not  require  Ihe  hIgheK 

himKi/  veiT  healthful,  and  may  >-eI  lite  nuoj 
yean,  he  being  now  of  the  age  of  Kvml)-lhree, 

people  were,  thnnigh  long  hibil,  inloiicileit  irtth 

■■Hit  Kecreatiofi  and  Bxercix. 

The   foilowing   curioui   anecdote,  which   fol- 

"Hii prime  piillme  and  reercMion  halh  alway. 

lowed  the  lim  attempt  at  clasucal  imitilion,  it 

been  the  eaeK»c  .rf  miniiage  and  ireapofB.  which 

hemir  >rt>  he  tued  W  pnictBe  every  day  i   but 
1  ahKTi'irw  Ibal  Kben  he  had  mwheatEdliimicIf 
be  wonld  be  apt  la  take  cold,  prtvaikd  «  fn,  thai 

thil  hi)  rival  poets,  touched  bv  ihe  spirit  of  the 
Grecian  mn^,  showed  a  angular  proof  of  Ih™ 

livity  which  gave  n»m  ^iw  little  scandal  in 

allaU  he  leflhe  fteauent  >£e  of  the  mannage. 

It  was  probably  a  kind  of  drunken  bom.     Fifty 

M  he  hath  'lone,  jret  he  taketh  ddiehi  m  wing 

poeB.   during   the   camital   of   jcji,   vent   to 

hli  ham  of  m^nnaRe  rid  hj  big  eKuyeT\  whom 

Aicueil.    Chance,  tav)  the  writer  of  the  life  of 
the  old  French  bard  Roniaid,  who  wis  oae  of 

heln«r««inih.i.rti«hl.ownplcBure.    Bur 

in  Ihe  art  nf  weapnM  (la  which  he  hai  a  nH'lhnd 

the    present   fr^aM    party,    threw    acrooa    Iheir 

be)-mid  all  that  ever  w»  famoni  in  ir,  found  out 

roid  a  fMt-wbich  Saving  caught,  they  oma. 

by  hli  own  InseDuitr  and  practKc)    he   ncvci 
tiuKirt  anybody  hnt  tlie  no*  Dnke  of  flucting- 

cirried  it  triumphantly  to  the  had  of  ihelr  fcv 

tivil,  to  appear  to  ucrifice  lo  B«:chu.,  ind  to 

twn  WW.     The  rcD  of  hii  time  he  iiicodi  in 

prc)inl  It  to  Jodelici   for  the  goat,  among  the 

1-fae  vahw  of  iwmey,  and  the  increase  of  our 

victim  of  ^chu).  who  prcUdld  oier  tragedy. 

SBS^  ^L^X  ^:,^^^S^^ 

Carmine,  qni  tragido,  lilem  cirtavlt  ob  hircnm. 

The  goat  tbn>  idomed,  and  hit  beard  painled. 

IMhetl  proipcritr,  that  tlwugh  hui  a  j-coman, 

wa)  hunted  about  the  long  table,  at  which  the 

ht  Rare  hi.  daugliten  fie.  ponnA  each  Ibr  Ibeir 
piH^.    At  the  latter  end  of  Elizabeth'i  reign, 

lifty  pocn  were  seated i  anj  after  having  served 
Ihem  for  a  tubjeet  of  laughter  for  some  time,  he 

icvtB  hundred  poundi  were  lucb  a  leD.pi.lion''[o 

was  hunted  out  of  the  n»m.  and  not  sacriiiced 

CfJUgrerc  ma1ti:i  twelve  thouund  pounds  mote 

the  occa)ioo,  in  imilalion  of  the  Bacchanalia  of. 

the  indent).     Ronsard   compo«d   some  diihy- 

rambics  In  celebrale  the  liMival  of  Ihe  goat  of 

tbanliKylhnnand.    CLiriaa  Harlom  hid  bat  a 

etienne   Jodcllei    and  mother,   eotiUed   "Our 

moderanfonnne. 

hst  1  luruff.—Ya  il  milT  amount!  to  a  poor 
litly  ponnds  1    Al  pretenl  thl>  loundi  oddtv  on  the 

freak   did   not  finish    ai   it  ought,  where  it  had 

licfiun.  among  the  poets.     Scvenl   ecclniuies 

Ronsard   with   hiving    performed    in    idolatrous 

uan.     1  have  heard  of  a   lady  of  quality  and 
fwiHinn,  who  bad  a  hiu  of  lier  l»ncv-dr«  maker. 

Mcrtlicc  i   and  it  was  ei)>-  m  iccnse  the  moral 

habits  of  jVly   pctii   aiKmbled    together,   who 

for  Ihe  eipen.llIUTC  of  one  year,  to  the  tune  of, 

wm  fir,  doubilcn,   from   being   inrproachaWe'. 

nr  rather,  which  elow'd  in  the  deep  diapason  of. 

They  repented  for  some  time  of  their  claatcal 

d.  thousand  pound)  1 

aacniiee  of  a  goat  to  Trigedv. 

Hirdi,  the  Pteneh   Lope  de  Vega,   wrote  Baa 

dtimalic  pieces  from  i«ee  to  1637  j   his  Ima^ua- 

lion  was  the  nun  fertile  poaible!   but  »  wild 

ate  ver\'  aniusiog,  thev  seived  as  so  many  in. 
struelive  le«ons   to   hb   succeBon,     Ok   may 

It  l<  rutioui  lo  trace  Ihe  tint  rude  atlempn 

nr  Ihe  drama,  in  -atioo.  nation. ,  to  obsene  at 

bii  piece.  "  La  Force  du  Sang."    In  tiKfini  ■« 

•  • 


r 


THE  MARRIAGE  OF  THE  ARTS, 


191 


»  carried  off  and  ravished.  In  the 
ond  she  b  »ent  back  with  an  e%'tdent  sign  of 
pcegiuncy.  In  the  third  she  lies  in,  and  at  the 
close  of  this  act,  her  son  is  about  ten  years  old. 
In  the  fourth,  the  father  of  the  child  acknow- 
ledges him  ;  and  in  the  fifth,  lamenting  his  son's 
annappr  fate,  he  marries  Lcocadia.  Such  are  the 
pieces  in  the  infancy  of  the  drama  \ 

Eotrou  was  the  first  who  ventured  to  intro- 
doce  several  persons  in  the  same  scene;  before 
his  time  they  rarely  exceeded  two  persons ;  if  a 
third  appeared,  he  was  usually  a  mute  actor, 
who  never  joined  the  other  two.  The  state  of 
the  theatre  was  even  then  very  rude;  freedoms 
of  the  mofiC  lascivious  embraces  were  publicly 
given  and  taken;  and  Rotrou  even  ventured  to 
introduce  a  naked  page  in  the  scene,  who  in  this 
situatum  holds  a  dialogue  with  one  of  his  he* 
rciccs.  In  another  piece,  *'  Sttdau,  ou  t'hospitaiitc 
x-ioUr/*  Hardy  makes  two  youn^  Spartans  carry 
off  Scedase's  two  daughters,  ravish  them  on  the 
theatre,  and,  violating  them  in  the  side  scenes, 
the  spectators  heard  their  cries  and  their  com* 
plaints.  Cardinal  Richelieu  made  the  theatre 
one  of  his  favourite  pursuits,  and  though  not 
successful  as  a  dramatic  writer,  he  gave  that 
encouragement  to  the  drama,  which  gradually 
gave  birth  to  genius.  Scudery  was  the  first  who 
introduced  the  twenty*fbur  hours  from  Aristotle ; 
and  Mairet  studied  the  construction  of  the  fable, 
and  the  rules  of  the  drama.  They  yet  groped 
in  the  dark,  and  their  beauties  were  yet  only 
occasional ;  ComciUe,  Racine,  Molicrc,  CrcbiUon, 
and  Voltaire  perfected  the  French  drama. 

In  the  infancy  of  the  tr^c  art  in  our  country, 
the  bowl  and  dagger  were  considered  as  the  great 
instruments  of  a  sublime  pathos  ;  and  the  "  Die 
ali "  and  "  Dit  nobly "  of  the  exquuite  and 
aAccting  tragedy  of  Fielding  were  frequently 
realized  in  our  popular  dramas.  Thomas  Goff, 
of  the  university  of  Oxford,  in  the  reign  of 
James  I.,  was  considered  as  no  contemptible 
tra^  poet :  he  concludes  the  first  part  of  his 
CouTd^cous  Turk,  by  promi«ng  a  second,  thus : 

If  this  first  part,  gentles !  do  like  you  well. 
The  second  part  shall  greater  murthert  tell. 

Specimens  of  extravagant  bombast  might  be 
selected  from  his  tragedies.  The  following 
speech  of  Amurath  the  Turk,  who  coming  on 
the  stage,  and  seeing  "an  appearance  of  the 
heavens  being  on  fire,  comets,  and  blazing  stars, 
thus  addresBcs  the  heavens,"  which  seem  to  have 
been  in  as  mad  a  condition  as  the  poet's  own 
mind  : 

How  now,  ye  heavens !  grow  you 

So  proud  that  you  must  needs  put  on  curled  locks. 
And  ck>the  yourselves  in  periwigs  ^  Jire ! 

In  the  Raging  Turk,  or  Bajazet  the  Second,  he  is 
introduced  witn  this  roost  raging  speech  : 
Am  I  not  emperor  ?  he  that  breathes  a  no 
Damns  in  that  negative  syllable  his  soul ; 
Durst  any  god  gainsay  it,  he  should  feel 
The  strength  officTcest  giants  in  my  armies ; 
Mine  anger's  at  the  highest,  and  I  could  shake 
The  firm  foundation  of  the  earthly  globe  : 
Could  I  but  grasp  the  poles  in  these  two  hands 
I'd  pluck  ^e  worid  asunder. 


He  would  scale  heaven,  and  would  then,  when 
be  had 

■■  got  beyond  the  utmost  sphere, 

Besiege  the  conca\-e  of  this  universe. 
And  hun^er*starve  the  gods  till  they  confessed 
What  funes  did  oppress  his  sleeping  soul. 

These  plays  went  through  two  editions;  the 
lasrtprintni  in  1656. 

The  following  passage  from  a  similar  hard  is  as 
precious.    The  king  in  the  play  exclaims. 

By  all  the  ancient  gods  of  Rome  and  Greece, 

I  k)ve  my  dauj^ter  ! better  than  my  niece  ! 

If  any  one  should  ask  the  reason  why, 

I'd  tell  them      ■  Nature  makes  the  stronger  tie  f 

One  of  these  rude  French  plays,  about  i6co,  is 
entitled  "  La  fUMlien,  ou,  Metcontentement  des 
CrenouiUes  contre  Jupiter  "  in  five  acts.  The  sub* 
ject  of  this  tragi-comic  piece  is  nothing  more  than 
the  fable  ol  the  frogs  who  asked  Jupiter  for  a 
king.  In  this  ridiculous  effusion  of  a  wild  fancy, 
it  must  have  been  pleasant  enough  to  have  seen 
the  actors  croaking  in  their  fens,  and  climbing  up 
the  steep  ascent  of  Olympus  ;  they  were  dressed 
so  as  to  appear  gigantic  irogs;  and  in  pleading 
their  cause  before  Jupiter  and  his  court,  the  dull 
humour  was  to  croak  sublimely,  whenever  they 
did  not  agree  with  their  judge. 

Clavigero,  in  his  curious  history  of  Mexico,  has 
given  Acosta's  account  of  the  Mexican  theatre, 
which  appears  to  resemble  the  first  scenes  among 
the  Greeks,  and  these  French  frogs,  but  with 
more  fancy  and  taste.  Acosta  writes,  "  llie  small 
theatre  was  curiously  whitened,  adorned  with 
boughs,  and  arches  made  of  flowers  and  feathers, 
from  which  were  suspended  many  birds,  rabbits, 
and  other  pleasing  objects.  The  actors  exhibited 
burlesque  characters,  feigning  themselves  deaf, 
sick  with  colds,  lame,  blind,  crippled,  and  ad- 
drcwing  an  idol  for  the  return  of  health.  The 
deaf  people  answered  at  cross  purposes ;  thoie 
who  had  colds  by  coughing ;  and  the  lame  by 
halting;  all  recited  their  complaints  and  misfor* 
tunes,  which  produced  infinite  mirth  among  the 
audience.  Others  appeared  under  the  names  of 
different  little  animals ;  some  disguised  .is  beetles, 
some  like  toads,  some  like  li/ardt,  and  upon  en- 
countering each  other,  reciprocally  explained  their 
employments,  which  was  highly  satisfactory  to 
the  people,  as  they  performetl  their  parts  with 
infinite  ingenuity.  Several  little  bovs  alio  belong- 
ing to  the  temple,  appeared  in  the  disguise  of 
butterflies,  and  birds  of  various  colours,  and 
mounting  upon  the  trees  which  were  fixed  there 
on  purpose,  little  balls  of  earth  were  thrown  at 
them  with  slings,  occasioning  many  humorous 
incidents  to  the  spectators." 

Something  verV  wild  and  original  appears  in 
this  singular  exhibition  ;  where  at  times  the  actors 
seem  to  have  been  spectators,  and  the  spectators 
were  actors. 


THK  MARRIAGE  OP  THE  ARTS. 

As  a  literary  curiosity  can  we  deny  a  niche  to 
that  "obliquity  of  distorted  wit,"  of  Baron  Holy - 
day,  who  has  composed  a  strange  comcdie,  in  five 


192 


THE  MAJUlhUiL    uF  TIIi:  AJlTS. 


acLi  performed  at  Christ  Chui;ch,  Oxford,  1630, 
not  for  the  enter tainmentf  as  an  anecdote  records, 
of  James  the  First  ? 

The  title  of  the  comedy  of  this  unclasucal 
classic,  for  Holyday  m  known  as  the  traailator 
of  Juvenal  with  a  very  learned  commentary*,  is 
TEXNOTAMIA,  or,  the  Marriage  of  the  Arts, 
i6jo,  quarto,  extremely  dull,  exceviii'ely  rare,  and 
extraordinarily  high-priced  among  collectors. 

It  may  l>e  exhibited  as  one  of  the  most  extra- 
vagant inventions  of  a  pedant.  Wlio  but  a  pedant 
could  have  conceived  the  dull  fancy  of  formin{^  a 
comedy,  of  five  acts,  on  the  subject  of  marrying 
the  Arts  f  l*hcy  are  the  dramatis  persons  of  this 
piece,  and  the  bachelor  of  arts  describes  their 
intrigues  and  characters.  His  actors  are  Polites, 
a  magistrate ; — Physica ; — Astronomia,  daughter 
to  Physica ;  Ethicus,  an  old  man  ; — Geographust 
a  traveller  and  courtier,  in  love  with  Astro- 
nomia ; — Arithmetica,  in  lo>'e  with  Geometry , 
— Logicus  ; — Grammaticus,  a  schoolmaster;  — 
Poeta ;— Historia,  in  love  with  Poctica; — Rhcto- 
rica,  in  lo\e  with  Logicus; — Melancholico,  Pocta's 
man;  —  Phantasies,  serxant  to  Geographus;  — 
Choler,  Grammaticus's  man. 

All  these  retined  and  alMtract  ladies  and  gentle- 
men  have  as  bodily  feelings,  and  employ  as  gro« 
language,  as  if  they  had  been  evcr>-day  charac- 
ters. A  specimen  of  his  grotes<|ue  dul'ness  may 
entertain;  "fruits  of  dull  heat,  and  aootcrkins  ot 
wit." 

Geographus  opens  the  play  with  declaring  his 
passion  to  Astronomia,  and  that  \'ery  rudely  in- 
deed \  See  the  pedant  wreathing  the  roses  of 
Love  1 

"  Geog.  Come,  now  you  shall,  Astronomia. 

Ast,  What  shall  I,  Geographus  ? 

Geog.  Ki!«e ! 

Att.  What  \  in  spite  of  my  teeth  ? 

Geog.  No,  not  so !  I  hope  you  do  not  use  to 
lusse  with  your  teeth. 

Att.  Many,  and  I  hope  I  do  not  use  to  kisse 
without  them. 

Geog.  Ay,  but  my  fine  wit-catcher,  I  mean  you 
do  not  sliow  your  teeth  when  you  kisse." 

He  then  ki«es  her,  as  he  siiys,  in  the  different 
manners  of  a  French,  Spanish,  and  Dutch  kiss. 
He  wants  to  take  otf  the  zone  of  Astronomia. 
She  begs  he  would  not  fondle  her  like  an  ele- 
phant as  he  is;  and  Geographus  says  again, 
*•  Won't  vou  then  ? 

Alt.  W'on't  I  what  ? 

Geog.  Be  kinde  ? 

Ast.  Be  kinde!  how?" 
Fortunately  Geographus  is  here  interrupted  by 
Astronomia's  motner,  Ph>'sica.  This  dialo^e  is  a 
specimen  of  the  whole  piece :  ver^  flat,  and  ver>' 
groM.  Yet  the  piece  is  still  curious, — not  only 
for  its  absurdit}',  but  for  that  sort  of  ingenuity, 
which  so  whimsicallv  contrived  to  bring  together 
the  diffierent  arts ;  tnis  pedantic  writer,  however, 
owes  more  to  the  subject,  than  the  subject  de- 
ri%'ed  from  him  ;  without  wit  or  humour,  he  has 
at  times  an  extravagance  of  invention.  As  for 
instance, — Geographus,  and  his  man  Phantastes, 
describe  to  Poeta  the  lyin^  wonders  they  pretend 
to  have  witnessed ;  and  this  is  one : 

**  Phan.  Sir,  we  met  with  a  traveller  that  could 
^leak  six  languages  at  the  same  instant. 


Poeta,  How  ?  at  the  same  instant,  that's  impos- 
sible ! 

Phan.  Nay,  sir,  the  actuality  of  tlie  perform- 
ance puts  it  beyond  all  contrailictinn.  With  \m 
tongue  he'd  so  Vowel  you  out  as  smooth  Itaiiam 
as  any  man  breathing;  with  his  eye  he  wouid 
sparkle  forth  the  proud  Spanish;  with  his  nose 
blow  out  most  robustious  Dutch ;  th«  creakime  of 
his  high-heeled  shoe  would  articulate  exact  FtU- 
niani  the  knocking  of  his  shin-bone  feminine 
French ;  and  his  belly  would  grumUe  nKNt  pure 
and  scholar-like  Hungary." 

This,  though  extravagant  without  fancy,  is  not 
the  worst  part  of  the  absurd  humour  which  runs 
through  this  pedantic  comedy. 

Tlie  classical  reader  may  perhaps  be  amused  by 
the  following  strange  conceits.  IPoeta,  who  wu 
in  love  with  Historia,  capriciouslv  falls  in  love  witn 
Astronomia,  and  thus  compares  his  mistnas : 

Her  broiu  ii  like  a  bra\'e  heroic  line 
That  does  a  sacred  majettie  inslirine  ; 
Her  note,  Phalevciake-Wkef  in  comely  sort. 
Ends  in  a  Trochie,  or  a  long  and  short. 
Her  mouth  is  like  a  pretty  Dimeter ; 
Her  eie-bro'U'S  like  a  littfe-loncer  'trimeter. 
Her  chinne  is  an  utlonicke,  and  ner  tongue 
Is  an  Hypermeter,  somewhat  too  long. 
Her  eici  I  may  compare  them  unto  two 
Quick-turning  dactyletf  for  their  nimble  view. 
Her  ribs  like  staues  of  Sapph'uks  doe  descend 
Thither,  which  but  to  name  were  to  otfend. 
Her  arms  like  two  Iambics  raised  on  hie. 
Doe  with  her  brow  bear  equal  maicstie ; 
Her  legs  like  two  straight  spondees  keep  apace 
Slow  as  two  seasons,  but  with  stately  g^race. 

Tlie  piece  concludes  with  a  speech  by  Polites, 
who  settles  all  the  disputes,  and  loves,  of  the  Arts. 
Poeta  promiKs  for  the  future  to  attach  bimself  to 
Historia.  Rhetorica,  though  she  loves  Logicus 
yet  as  they  do  not  mutually  agree,  she  is  united  to 
Grammaticus.  Polites  counsels  Phlegmatico,  who 
is  Logicus's  man,  to  leave  off  smoking,  and  to 
learn  Wtter  manners ;  and  Choler,  Grammaticns^k 
man,  to  bridle  himself; — that  Ethicus  and  (Eco- 
noma  would  vouchsafe  to  give  good  advice  to 
Poeta  and  Historia; — ^and  Ph>-sica  to  her  children 
Cicographus  and  Astronomia  I  for  Grammaticus 
and  Rhetoric,  he  says,  their  tongues  will  aiwajrs 
agree  and  will  not  fall  out;  and  for  Geomctres 
and  Arithmetica,  they  will  be  vet^*  regular.  Me- 
lancholico, who  is  Pneta's  man,  is  left  quite  alone, 
and  agrees  to  be  married  to  Musica :  and  at  length 
Phantastes,  by  the  entreaty  of  Poeta.  becomes  the 
servant  of  Melancholico  and  Musica.  Ph\-sic(^ 
gnomus  and  Cheiromantes,  who  are  in  the  cfurac- 
ter  of  gipsies  and  fortune-tellers,  are  finally  exiled 
from  the  island  of  Fortunata,  where  lies  the  whcUe 
scene  of  the  action  in  the  resic^ce  of  the  married 
arts. 

The  pedant-comic-wnter  has  even  attended  to 
he  dresses  of  his  characters,  which  are  minutely 
given.  Thus  Melancholico  wears  a  black  suit,  a 
black  hat,  a  black  cloak,  and  black  worked  band, 
black  gloves,  and  black  shoes.  Sanguis,  the  ser> 
vant  of  Medicus,  is  in  a  red  suit ;  on  the  breast  is 
a  man  with  his  nine  bleeding ;  on  the  back,  one 
letting  blood  in  his  arm  ;  with  a  red  hat  and  band, 
red  stockings,  and  red  pumps. 


I 


THE  COMEDT  OF  A  MADMAN! 


193 


It  is  recorded  of  this  play,  that  the  Oxford 
Kbolars,  resolving  to  give  James  I.  a  relish  of 
their  genius,  requested  leave  to  act  this  notable 
l^ccc.  Honest  Anthony  Wood  telb  us,  that  it 
beine  too  ^rave  for  the  king,  and  too  scholastic 
for  the  auditors',  or,  as  some  have  said,  the  acton 
had  taken  tod  much  wine,  his  majesty  otfered 
screral  times,  after  two  acts,  to  withdraw.  He 
was  prevailed  to  sit  it  out,  in  mere  charity  to 
the  Oxford  scholars.  Tlie  following  humorous 
cptgrun  was  produced  on  the  occasion : 

At  Ckr'ut-€hurch  marriage  done  before  the  king, 
Lc^  that  those  mates  should  want  an  offering. 
The  king  himself  did  offer : — What,  I  pray  ? 
He  offered  Vwice  or  thrice — to  go  away  I 


A  CONTiOVANCE  IN  DRAMATIC  DIALOGUE. 

CaowN,  in  his  "City  Politique^"  1688,  a  co- 
ntedy  written  to  satirise  the  ^'hipi  of  those  da>'s, 
was  accuaed  of  having  copied  his  character  too 
cloaely  after  life,  ana  hb  enemies  turned  his 
cnnwtly  into  a  libel.  He  has  defended  himself  in 
ha  preface  from  tbb  imputation.  It  was  parti> 
cubiiy  laid  to  hb  charge  that  in  the  characters 
of  BartoUoe,  an  old  corrupt  lawyer,  and  hb  wife, 
Locinda,  a  wanton  country  girl,  he  intended  to 

ridicule  a  certain  seijeant   M and  his  young 

wife.  It  was  e%'en  said  that  the  comedian  mi- 
micked  the  odd  speech  of  the  aforesaid  aeijeant, 
wh*,  having  lost  all  hb  teeth,  uttered  hb  words 
•  in  a  veT>'  peculiar  manner.  On  thb,  Crown  telb 
us,  in  his  defence,  that  the  comedian  must  not  be 
blamed  for  tbb  peculiarity,  as  it  was  an  invention 
of  the  author  himself,  who  had  taught  it  to  the 
plarer.  He  seems  to  have  considered  it  as  no 
or^nary  invention,  and  was  so  pleased  with  it,  that 
be  has  most  painfully  printed  the  speeches  of  the 
lawyer  in  thb  singular  gibberish  ;  and  his  reasons, 
»  wen  as  his  discover)',  appear  very  remarkable. 

He  says,  that  "  Not  any  one  old  man  more 
than  anbdier  is  mimiqucd,  by  Mr.  Lee's  way  of 
speaking,  which  all  comedians  can  witness  was 
my  own  ineventwny  and  Mr.  Lee  was  taught  it 
by  me.  To  prove  thb  farther,  I  have  printed 
Eartoiine's  part  in  that  manner  of  spelling,  by 
which  I  tai^t  it  Mr.  Lee.  They  who  have  no 
teeth  cannot  pronounce  many  letters  plain,  but 
perpetually  lisp,  and  break  thch'  words ;  and  some 
wonb  they  cannot  bring  out  all.  As  for  instance, 
th  b  pronounced  by  thrusting  the  tongue  hard  to 
the  toeth,  therefore  that  sound  they  cannot  make, 
but  something  like  it.  For  that  reason  you  will 
of^  find  in  Bartoline's  part,  instead  of  /A,  dy,  as 
yo/,  for  that ;  yith^  for  thb  ;  yosh^  for  those ;  some- 
times a  /  b  feft  out,  as  housand,  for  thousand ; 
hirty,  for  thirty.  S  they  pronounce  like  sh,  as 
sker,  for  »r;  musfu,  for  must;  I  they  sjpeak  like 
ch;  therefore  you  will  find  chrue,  for  true; 
ckreason,  for  treason ;  cko,  for  to ;  cAoo,  for  two  j 
ehfn^  for  ten  ;  chake,  for  take.  And  this  ch  is  not 
to  be  pronounced  like  k,  as  tb  in  Christian,  but 
as  in  child,  church,  chest.  I  desire  the  reader  to 
observe  these  things,  because  otherwise  he  will 
hardly  understand  much  of  the  lawyer's  part, 
which  in  the  opinion  of  all  is  the  most'dii'ertising 
in  the  conoedy ;  but  when  this  ridiculous  way  of  ; 


speaking  b  familiar  with  him,  it  will  render  the 
part  more  pleasant." 

One  hardly  expects  so  curious  a  piece  of  or- 
thoepy in  the  preface  to  a  comedy.  It  may  have 
re(|uired  great  obser\-ation  and  ingenuity  to  have 
disccvered  the  cause  of  old  toothless  men  mumb- 
ling their  words.  But  as  a  piece  o(  comic  humour, 
on  which  the  author  appears  \»  have  prided  him- 
self, the  effect  is  far  Imm  fortunate;  humour, 
arising  from  a  personal  defect,  a  but  a  miserable 
substitute  for  that  of  a  more  genuine  kind.  I 
shall  give  a  specimen  of  this  strange  gibberish  as  it 
is  so  laboriously  printed.  It  may  amuse  the  reader 
to  see  hb  motlier's  language  transformed  into  so 
odd  a  shape  that  it  is  with  dilficulty  he  can 
recognise  it. 

Old  Bartoline  thus  speaks: — "I  wrong'd  my 
ihe{ff  cho  entcher  incho  bondth  of  marriage  and 
could  not  perform  coivenantsh  I  might  well  hinke 
you  would  chake  the  forfeiture  of  the  liond  ;  and  I 
no'er  found  equichy  in  a  htdg  in  my  life ;  but  i'U 
trounce  you  boh ;  I  have  paved  jayhh  u  i*  the 
boneth  of  honester  people  yt  n  \  ou  are,  ymt  never 
did  me  nor  any  man  any  v^Tont^,  but  had  law 
o'yeir  shydsh  and  right  o'yeir  shydih,  but  tK:cause 
yey  had  not  me  o'yeir  shydsh,  I  ha'  'hin^um  'em  m 
jaytith,  and  got  yeir  eshchatsh'  for  my  il^entth,  yat 
had  no  more  chytU  to  'em  yen  dogsh." 


THB  COMEDY  OF  A  MADMAN  ! 

Dekmarkts,  the  friend  of  Richelieu,  mentioned 
in  the  article  Richelieu,  was  a  ver>-  extraordinary 
character,  and  produced  many  etiusions  of  genius 
in  early  life,  till  he  l)ecamc  a  mystical  fanatic. 
It  was  said  of  him,  that  "  he  was  the  greatest 
madman  among  poets,  and  the  l>c»t  poet  among 
madmen."  His  comedy  of  **  The  Visionaries  "  is 
one  of  the  most  extraoruinar)'  of  dramatic  projects, 
and  in  respect  to  its  genius  and  lunacy,  may  be 
considered  as  a  literary  curiosity. 

In  this  singular  comedy  all  Bedlam  seems  to  be 
\et  loose  on  the  stage,  and  every  character  h.is  a 
high  claim  to  an  apartment  in  it.  It  is  indeed 
suspected  that  the  cardinal  had  a  hand  in  this 
anomalous  drama,  and  in  spite  of  its  extravagance 
it  was  favourably  received  bv  the  [Mihlic,  who 
certainly  had  never  seen  anything  like  it. 

Every  character  in  this  piece  acts  under  some 
hallucination  of  the  mind,  or  a  tit  of  madness. 
Artabaze  is  a  cowardly  hero,  who  lielieves  he  has 
conquered  the  world.  Amidor  is  a  wild  poet, 
who  imagines  he  ranks  above  Homer.  Filidan  is 
a  lover  who  becomes  inHammablc  as  gunpowder, 
for  every  mistress  he  reads  of  in  romances.  Pha- 
lante  b  a  beggarly  bankrupt,  who  thinkn  himself 
as  rich  as  Croesus.  Melisse,  in  reading  the  "  History 
of  Alexander,"  has  become  madly  in  love  with  this 
hero,  and  will  have  no  other  husband  than  "  him 
of  Macedon."  Hesperie  imagines  her  fatal  charms 
occasion  a  hundred  disappointments  in  the  world, 
but  prides  herself  on  her  perfect  insensibility. 
Sestiane,  who  knows  no  other  happiness  than 
comedies,  and  whatever  she  sees  or  hear*,  imme- 
diately plans  a  scene  for  dramatic  effect,  renounces 
any  other  occupation;  and  finally,  Alcidon,  the 
fatlier  of  these   three  mad  girls,   as  iml)ecilc  as 


e:,"e  ! 


1 1ff  nurry  hn  three  djinghlcrs  wJ 
no  luf  h  pnwcl  M  tbeir  own,  J 
the  line  who  comet.    Ht  kcc] 


n  vc  birr  Mnked    firqbmtlj 


Elbf™" 

moluiion  dT  dying,  befnTC  ihc  imrrii:*  any  mcincf 
pmoiUH,  Hrffiene  refuaa  to  ttmi¥»  out  of  ^Ij 
far  nuiikind ;  for  lo  ni4lEe  one  min  hippy»  ihe 


tM^cjl'ledi huibuHl)  rinie >vu  SiU  permit 

And  ihJLlL  I  venlure  id  eichui^e  mv  kilT 
TTiep  ve  hjve  rhiJdfen  loldHl  in  Dur  irmt 


E    prmiting    piHKRi    a 


gpmt  wbr«e  liNre  miy  be  more  huely  deii^ed. 

viuOeT  ipkce  the>'  occupt,  than  the  pomlrfoiu 

FEir  GeoT^  M4Cken»c.  a  polite  vriter  And  i 

cviy,  preftnlt^;  telituJe  to  pubUc  emplDvineni. 

di^T>'  of  hb  tdT^ect ;  rbe  kdrocjln  for  nlitude 
hive  Blnji  pTTTfUed  orer  time  for  aciire  Hie, 

indolent  tri1ler\ or  deprntd  grniusn;  vbn.  like 


hul  nal  kmnni  IhC  heiuliful  luni  of  mrd>  *nd 
thou^b  in  poetr> ,  ithifh  Sir  CteoT|{eh«]  eapliiiKd 

cudom*  of  Ehe  age  defrnd  hli  ume  >  he  u  miAI 
hidcniuly  pAinTed  lorth  by  the  durt  pencil  or  ■ 


cntiTeJy  put   Alide  hia  pnlltiCAl.  to  Attend  to  hii 
lirenn'  ehtrarter.    Blair  hu  ijuoted  hb  pleiidingt 


ird.  to  iDdolge  the  Imutiei  of  itudy  )n  the 
rhmdelighteil  himin  ihr-     '^  -  ■■-     


ptefcTAble  to  IDlif  ndc,  Ji  m  iI  i 
wppoTt  thAt  Ihil  of  which 

wben  touched,  we  fiiul  nothir 


otWnd 


e  hin  the    le*M 
c  left  bebind  them 


"  I  tuvc  ulmiml  to  Kc  pcnont  of  tirtiK  uhd 

dlrertiicinent  thu  id  VHt  DDODOthff;  tnd  dim 

b'bit,  uJk  of  the  wFiihrr.  or  mnc  lacb  piiihi) 
nihrcTL  inJ  it  m«y  be,  if  Ehey  mule  a  rultiCT 
inroad  upon  any  otbn-  affair,  tbcr  did  V  pick  ooc 
aonthcr,  that  it  aflbrtkd  them  nuttrr  of  cUmal 
quaml ;  for  what  wa(  al  (ir4  but  an  indiAERDt 
tubjcci,  ii  t>y  inlerot  adopted  into  (be  nnmbei  of 

taJklDg  of  Dcv  ^hioui  buying  aod  leliiag  of 
landi,  advaneemenl  or  ruin  of  favouriis,  viftorin 
or  defeats  of  itnngc  pi^nceit  which  is  theordinu^ 

fm|ucnt   their  auperior*,  aod  (bete  men  mutt 

to  cootiDue  Jo  their  wcien  ;  if  we  coDverte  wilh 
Ihem  wIlD  apeak  with  marcaddmlhanDunelret, 
then  we  repine  ei^uaJJy  at  our  owa  duloew.  and 


3  of  bH  •an.ju.ii_B.  w 
<«  he  m  ooK  >itt.>k< 


hit  rr^cnda,  and  Wb  to  wripl  in  aimrahlioa, 
by  ^nius  abruptly  bceaki  aJi  hit  rncodly  i 


and^WrS*^  by  bb^ 
a  pkvtdre,  at  len^h  ii 


:  addieilB  hit  friRuI]  ."MjA 


null  ihciedire  oi,w  ikii''.  .  ■..-'' 


of  Chrutendum.    Repreteot  to  ^ouitetf  the  last  |)ourbfiU  mn^cnticeiteH 
■nil  penon  wat  infaEuaic  with  tea],  Ihal  penon  !apt 


Ihit  lubiccl  wiltKHiI  the  addition    almcn  •  >'b<-1c  viAth.  ' 
es,  whicb  may  he  utelul.    a  man       Ikilitudr  in  a  later  peri4d 


tplrllt.    HTe^  pTodnciion  of  emiut  mutt  be  tiie 
prciducIlAn  of  enlbntUtm,     Wben  liie  youth  tigiu 

fl,-  Into  .ecluUon  and  'mtdilalion.  Whei 
he  indulee  but  in  toiiludi  the  line  mman 
bit  wul  V  wbeie  but  in  tobtude  can  he  o 


!"'iLt"H.'c!"ii«"'*'  t^!" 

ct   to   ("^.     Ke^J  " 
tuUiude.     Wc  laiiteiv 

„ , pondtnce  thtowsb  Ih. 

mTHaken    nolion'of    Sntat,     he    """^'f.^ 
pajnted^ttie^jwr™.  "(  "^^J;™-,,  ^,  ^, 


™^fcTIri'"li  t^  ep-llUl   to   '"*>.     K'^Jl" 
.it  imer.  the  hi«..ry  W  toliiude.    ^JJ^J^^^J^^ 


LITERABT  FRIENDSHIPS. 


diir^EUd  >U  pracDt  Ihiogs,  be 
1  gloomy  )ay)  wiTh  the  jipplic 


folitudc,  Afbd  flt  IcngtK  hit  dopiir  cUwJ 
lilh   Ihc  briUiint  wingi  of  hii  butlcrtly 


Episfle  Eo  hu  HiBC."  1 


e  anecdote  on  solitude. 


hii  houic,  lopnix  up  or  en-  .lolinTne  i 
her.  u  is   usul    with   the   UKrar>-  populi... 
ciuge  npecied  to  tind  thjit  truHjuiliity  in  the 
untry  which  be  biA  fRquenlly  dacribcd  id 
I  Teixs ;   bul  AS  he  wu  only  x  poetical  pU- 


only  reasouble 


biogriphen  cannot,  without  difficult* 

.    They  pottrayei 
zy  mingled  tenti 

-    They  ciiled  oibe  mother  G. 
knh  the  delight  of  Kurcfpe,  boti 

for  ibey  were  both  peosioiKd,  but  lived 


fectkpn  for  Chirron,  that  he 

Charron  evinced  hi«  rratiiude  to  the  maih 

he  sister  of  Montaigne,  urho  had  married,  1 
-an  of  friendship,  umntcrrupted  by  rivalr 
nvy,  crowned  the  livct  of  Pt^opwand  Leo 

^  singular  custom  formerly  prevailed  among 
^cn  Jonvn  had  tn-elve  of  ihe^e  poetical 

-ompwd  on  the  death  of  hi)  friend  Harvey,  tbe 


Bui  «tch  or  deep  philosophy; 
Wit.  elonuence,  and  poeliy. 

Idas  to  the  memory  of  a  voung  Wend,  bu 

"  To  whom  ihaU  1  mv  hopes  and  feait  Impa 
Ot  trust  the  ca™  a^d  follis  of  my  beanT 

TTk  elegy  of  Tlckcll,  mahcbousl.  called  bv  S 
prose  in  rhvme,"  U  alike  inspired  by  aKec 
nd  fancy ;  it  W  a  melodkm.  l«guo.,  uid  a 
incholv  grace.     The  sonnet  of  Gray  to  the 

mor.-  of  West  is  a  beautiful  effusion,  and  a  m 
jr  English  sonneu.     "^vMius  ^*e  prole 

with^i^^li^iiriiu't'hirfonune.    At  hii  de 

lius.    Our  poet  thus  addresses  him  in  the  warr 


Qu'  importenl  ccs  pleun — 


In  Maery's  haunts,  thr  [riend  thy  uounlici 
And  give  an  urgent  \ih  uHne  days  of  ease 


I 


ANECDOTES  OF  ABSTJRACTfOX  OF  MTXD, 


197 


The  literaiy  friendship  of  a  father  with  hi^  son 
is  one  of  the  rarest  alliances  in  the  lepablic  of 
letters.    It  ^ras  {^ratifying  to  the  feelings  of  young 
Gibbon,  in  the  fervour  of  literar\'  ambition,  to 
licdkaie   his  first-fruits  to  his  fatlfier.      The  too 
'jvely  SOB  of  Crebillon,  though  his  was  a  very  dif- 
(erent  genius  to  the  {grandeur  of  his  father's,  yet 
dedicated  his   works  to  him,  and  for  a  moment 
pot  aside  his  wit   and  raillery*  for  the  pathetic 
cxpresnons  of  filial  veneration.    We  have  had  a  re- 
markable instance  in  the  two  Richardsons;  and 
^  father,  in   his  original  manner,  has,  in  the 
most  glo^ng  language,  expressed  his  atfectinnate 
KDtiments.    He  says,  *'  My  time  of  learning  was 
employed  in  business ;   but  after  all,  I  have  the 
Greek'  and  Latin  tongues,  because  a  part  of  me 
possesses  them,  to  whom  I  can  recur  at  plea- 
wre,  jost  as  I  have  a  hand  when  I  would  write  or 
paint,  feet  to  walk,  and  eyes  to  see.    My  son  is 
my  learning,  as  I  am  that  to  him  which  he  has 
not. — We  make  one  man,  and  such  a  compound 
man  may  probably  produce  what  no  single  man 
can."     And  further,  "I  alwa>-s  think  it  mv  pe- 
culiar happiness  to  be  as  it  were  enlargcJ,  ex- 
panded, made  another  man,  b>'  the  acqubition  of 
my  son  ;  and  he  thinks  in  the  same  manner  con- 
cerning my  .union  with  him."    This  is  as  curious 
as  it  b  uncommon ;  howo'er  the  cv-nic  may  call 
it  egDti-«n  \ 

Some  for  their  friend  have  died  penetrated  with 
inconsolable  grief;  some  have  sacrificed  their 
character  to  presenre  his  o^d'n ;  some  have  shared 
their  limited  fortune ;  and  some  have  remained 
attached  to  their  friend  in  the  cold  season  of 
jdversitj-. 

Jurieu  denounced  Bayle  as  an  impious  writer, 
and  drew  his  concluMons  from  the  "  Avis  aux 
Rcfogies."  This  work  is  written  against  the 
Calrinists,  and  therefore  becomes  impious  in 
Holland.  Bavie  might  have  exculpated  himself 
with  facility,  %  declaring  the  work  was  composed 
b>'  La  Roque  ;  but  he  preferred  to  be  persecuted, 
ruber  than  to  ruin  his  friend ;  he  therefore  was 
silent,  and  was  condemned.  UTicn  the  minister 
Fckoqoet  was  abandoned  by  all,  it  was  the  men  of 
letters  he  had  patronised  who  ne>er  forsook  his 
prison ;  and  many  have  dedicated  their  works  to 
great  men  in  their  adversity',  whom  they  scorned 
to  itotice  at  the  time  when  they  were  noticed  by 
ail.  The  learned  Goguet  bequeathed  hi^  mss. 
and  library  to  his  friend  Fugere,  with  whom  he 
bad  united  his  affections  and  his  studies.  His 
work  on  the  *'  Origin  of  the  Arts  and  Sciences  " 
had  been  much  indebted  to  his  aid.  Fugere, 
who  knew  hb  friend  to  be  past  recovery-,  pre- 
served a  mute  despair,  during  the  slow  and  painful 
disease,  and  on  the  death  0?  Goguet,  the  victim 
of  sensibility  perished  amidst  the  manuscripts 
which  his  friend  had  in  vain  bequeathed  to  pre- 
pare for  publication.  The  Abbe  de  Saint  Pierre 
gave  an  interesting  proof  of  literary  friendship. 
When  he  was  at  college,  he  formed  an  union  with 
Varignon,  the  gieometrician.  They  were  of  con- 
genial dispositions.  When  he  went  to  Paris,  he 
mvited  Varignon  to  accompany  him  ;  but  Varignon 
bad  nothing,  and  the  abbe  was  Car  from  rich.  A 
certain  income  was  necessaiv  for  the  tranquil  pur- 
suits of  geometry.  Our  aboe  had  an  income  of 
i8oe  livTcs ;  from  thif  b<  deducted  300,  which  he 


'■.  *vmM 


gave  to  the  geometrician,  accompanied  by  a 
delicacy  which  few  but  a  man  of  genius  could 
conceive.  "I  do  not  give  it  to  you,"  he  said,  "as 
a  salan-,  but  an  annuity,  that  you  may  be  in- 
depen(ient,  and  quit  me  when  you  dislike  me." 
Somethinf^  nearly  similar  embellishes  our  own 
literary  histor\-.  When  Akensidc  was  in  great 
danger  of  expieriencing  famine  as  well  as  fame, 
Mr.  D>-son  allowed  him  three  hundred  pounds  a 
vear.  Of  this  gentleman,  perhaps,  nothin^i^  is 
known ;  yet  whatever  his  life  may  be,  it  merits 
the  tribute  of  the  biographer.  To  close  with 
these  honourable  testimonies  of  literar>-  friend- 
ship, we  must  not  omit  that  of  Churchill  and 
Lloyd.  It  is  known  that  when  Lloyd  heard  of 
the  death  of  our  poet,  he  acted  the  part  whic  h 
Fugere  did  to  Goguet.  The  page  is  crowded,  but 
my  facts  are  by  no  means  exhausted. 

The  most  illustrious  of  the  ancientn  prefixed  the 
name  of  some  friend  to  the  head  of  their  works. — 
We  too  often  place  that  of  some  patron.  They 
honourably  inserted  it  m  their  works.  When  a 
man  of  genius,  howe\er,  shows  that  he  is  not  less 
mindful  of  his  social  affection  than  hi»  fame,  he  is 
the  more  loved  by  his  reader.  Plato  communi- 
cated a  rav  of  his  glor>'  to  his  brothers  ;  for  in  his 
Republic  he  ascribes  some  partn  to  Adimantu^  and 
Glauchon ;  and  Antiphon  the  youngest  is  made 
to  deliver  his  sentiments  in  the  Parmenidcs.  To 
perpetuate  the  fondness  of  friendship,  several 
authors  have  entitled  their  works  by  the  name  of 
some  cherished  associate.  Cicero  to  his  Treatise 
on  Orators  gives  the  title  of  Brutus ;  to  that  of 
Friendship,  Lelius ;  and  to  that  of  (.)ld  Age,  Cato. 
TTiey  have  been  imitated  by  the  modems.  Th*; 
poetical  Tasso,  to  his  dialogue  on  Friendship  ^ave 
the  name  of  Manw,  who  was  aftensaros  his 
afTectionate  biographer.  Sepulvueda  entitle^  his 
treatise  on  (Jlory  by  the  name  of  his  friend  CJon- 
salves.  Lociel  to  his  dialogues  on  the  Lawyers  of 
Paris  prefixes  the  name  of  the  learned  P;»s<j»iier. 
Thus  Plato  di.Minguishcd  his  Dialogues  bv  the 
names  of  certain  pereons ;  the  one  on  I.>'ing  is 
entitled  Hippius  ;  on  Rhetoric,  (^irgia.i ;  and  on 
Beautv,  Phiednis. 

Luther  has  perhaps  carried  this  feeling  to  an 
extravagant  point.  He  was  mi  delighted  by  his 
favourite  "Commentary  on  the  K^)l^tle  to  the 
Galatians,"  that  he  distinnuished  it  by  a  title  of 
doting  fondness  ;  he  nametl  it  alter  his  wife,  and 
called  it  "  His  Catherine." 


ANECDOTES  OF  ABSTRACTION  OF  MINB. 

Some  have  exercised  this  power  of  abstraction  to 
a  degree  that  appears  manellous  to  volatile  spirits, 
and  puny  thinkers. 

To  this  patient  habit,  Newton  is  indobted  for 
many  of  his  great  discoveries;  an  apple  fall-*  upon 
him  in  his  orchard, — and  the  system  of  attraction 
.succeeds  in  his  mind  !  he  ohservet  lM)ys  bl(»wing 
soap  bubbles,  and  the  properties  of  light  display 
themselves  1  Of  Socrates,  it  is  viid,  that  he  would 
frequently  remain  an  entire  day  and  night  in  the 
same  attitude,  alisorbed  in  meditation  ;  and  why 
shall  we  doubt  thi:»,  when  we  know  that  La 
ontaine  and  Thomson,   Descartes   and    Newton, 


SXET  FSOM  METASTASIO. 


itudln,  thu  be  woulil 


xawli:s  prunnAinn  of  hu 
levcrittaingyiiuithiniiiil] 

%^i  C?tn  ipplindK  Otlld*,  who,  wbcn  he  i 
)ci<i  n  to  write  \a  Ifae  mnmine,  wM  unrpiiKiI 
be  evvninR  i  ud  when  Ik  rook  up  Mi  pen  in  t 
itontiHi  wa»  iiunirisetl  by  ihe  jppevmee  of  t 
nnTnini;.  BuAbn  Mice  dcurltied  thew  delicle 
nomenln  wtib  hbi  xcoilnnied  eLoquence- — 'N 
.'entHni  dppndi  nn  pjtlencc  \  contemplitte  yo 

rJectiie  kpsk  conTDba  for  a  momcnr  the  Irjii 
md  ipreaili  ilown  to  Ihe  •cry  bnn  i  Rkw 
rtilnfgn.  Then  come  Ibe  luiurtct  of  gcidv 
Jie  tnie  bnon  for  nrodnclicm  lod  CMnpnltia 
»un  10  dcllshtfnl  thit  I  I 


the  uxcdotc  related  of 


ic.      it  In  protubLc  I 
HiIiB),  IhE  luliin  poe) 


PD£t;ju»  reUIei  of  Dante»  that  he  indulged  hii 

knevi  whenever  he  niSt  be  wu  only  alive  to 
wbal  iru  puHnfl  in  hh  mind  i  to  all  humia 
concerns  1>e  "aa  »  if  they  bail  not  been  <    Danie 

endued  tiK  wop  of  a 


m  pur  into  a  violeni  nimult.  I  giDw  n  led  in 
Ibe  face  at  a  dmnkanl,  and  am  obliged  to  quit  mf 
work."  When  Maiebranrhe  lint  took  up  De^ 
cartes  on  Kan*  the  germ  and  origiii  of  bu  pbl- 
lOVJphy,  be  vu  obliged  frrquentlV  to  intertnpt 
hit  reading  by  a  violent  palpitation  of  the  hcnt. 
When  the  AM  id»  of  Ihe  Ekiv  on  Ibe  Atn  and 

cinoned  nich  a  fiTeriah  aoilmtion  thai  il  innached 
to  a  delirium. 

occasioned  the  andcnit,  wbo  tometimo  pcreeired 

the  effceu,  to  believe  ii  wm  not  >bo '  ^' — 

inqilTatioii.  Fielding  tavs  "  t  do  noi 
Ihal  the  inntl  palbnic  and  iflccline 
been  writ  with  tear^"    He  poiupt 

the"(ollo»ing 
Z>ryilm,  alEer 


donbt  but 
ibKTTHion  by 


T  than  in  Vh^j  taH? 


not  a  pleature  without  pj 

riaH  nf  Iht  ipiriil  must  needt  oe  a  veaXi 

corutitution,  eipedally  in  age,  and  m 

iT^ng  the  ninth  in 
Olympiad,  H 


ir  refteshmenl  betwixt  the  In 


;:i 


tbuMa^n  rmden  everythi 


I    before   him.     Thit  en- 


den  everythiruE  to 


H  lo  hli  chamber  I  the  hiight- 

tbnvkvd  a  pbenamcrwn.    He 

whole  nij^l  in  ubeLlrlni;  ll.aiidwlwn 

iicvn  TerollecliriG  hn  tlirin}>htv  Tnr  .i  lew 
helore  "Xr,  \!ist !"    tie  hail  wed  Ibv  eulin  night 

perturbation 


«  night,  with 


who  had  been  lendlectin): 


ronutojd  >i»  iitfe  U^lm 


e  favDle  io  Hngo,  e  pure 

JO  ton  i;  prvrtdo 

:  inveni^  p>*B|p>.  <  ">'•  tda 

He  nun  rn'tnganna  lirti. 


n,  ai  ml)^  it  inpniKd, ; 
t   phywaDy.     What   a 


cettainjv  urai  a  nvimun  nJT  the  tint  gen 
hrlaeir  on  her  hn.(  reading  of  Tekr 
Taaio.  "My  retpirjiiDn  ro«i  I  feh 
colotiriou  mj  lace,  |nd 


ig,had 


raye^my  a,^ution  ;  I  vaa  Riiirhartt  for' 

diiriiig  Ibii  pertKt  Irarttformalion, 
think  that  I  mndf  w»  anyibing, 
TIk  whole  had  rto   connnion  wiin  myten ;  i ;      mv  ini 


I  did  not  vet  1     prurd   i 
hir  any  one.       Umiilf, 


tasBB  delb  llUa  Vila  i  II  cono  intern. 

Fa.  dl-n  imi  ripoto  in  Ben  del  VBKO. 

I  17JJ,  Ml  MIlur  fafiag  Mu  OymptM.  /.ft 

Uwrtf  »i>.lnilr  mn-Af,  rCYil  M  Inn,  in  inpnu- 


I 


nrcriARDSioy, 


199 


SONNET — IMITATED. 

Faklcsi  ud  dreanw  I  feign ;  yet  thou(^  but  vcne 

The  diteaxm  jind  fjblc*  thai  adnm  ui»  scroll, 
Food  fool.  I  nve,  and  fcnci-e  »s  I  rehcjne  ; 

While  uEvuiNK  TC.\M  for  riKritt»  m>riiowk  roll. 
Perixip*  the  dear  delusion  of  my  art 

h  lAiftlom  ;  and  the  afptated'mind. 
Ail  iirill  rc^pondinf;  to  each  p|jinti%-v  pan. 

With  love  and  r^ie,  a  tranquil  h<nir  can  find. 
Ah  !  not  <ilone  the  tender  hh>  ml<  I  give 

Are  hctiont :  but  my  fcam  and  hopkm  I  deem 
Ar>.-  r^BLC*  all ;  deliriou:ily  I  live, 

And  lifvN  whole  cour^  !!•  one  pnjtracted  drc.im. 
Eternal  power  I   when  shxll  I  wake  td  n.-^ 

Thu'  wearied  brain  on  ThithN  immortal  breaxt  ? 


RICHARDSON. 


'  At  ever}'  moment  I  mw  my  tuppinew  .iliridueil 

I  by  a  pajfL*.     I  then  expericiued  the  s.imr  M.-n<ij- 

tioni  thoMT   feci   who  have  Iimt;   li\-cd   viith  niie 

they   love,  and   atv  on   the   p«>int  of  v p. ir.it inn. 

'  At   the  clo*e  of  the   >»ork    I  HX'med   to  rem.iin 

dajrted." 

I      The  impa«ioncil    Diderot   then   hre.iki    fnnh ; 

j  *'<l  Kirh.irilvin  '  thou  Mn^uUr  K^niu't  in  ni\  e\e*' 

thou  slult  fiirm  my  reailiii^  in  .til  timeo.     It  Inn  eil 

bv  >harp  ne<e*>ity,  my  friend  falU  into  indij^eme  ; 

H  the  mcdifM  rity  of  my  fortune  i^  not  MiMinent 

to  bestow  im  m\  chiiilren  the  nete%Mr\  c.ire^  lnr 

their  education,  I  will  ;«•!!   my  Ixxiks— but  iliou 

I  !«hall  remain  !  yvs,  thou  Mvilt  re^t  in  the  tame  cl.its 

\  with  .MosEH,  HoMi.M,  Ki'HiPii)F.>,  and  Scu'hih  i.k>, 

to  be  read  altem.itrly. 
I  "  C)  Kich»nlvin  ?'  I  d.ire  prnnnunce  th.il  the 
I  mo<t  veritable  hiHtor>  n  lull  of  fictions  and  thy 
I  romance!  are  full  ot  truths.  Histor}-  paints  viine 
individuals :  thnu  paintot  the  human  species.  - 
History  attributes  to  vime  individuali  wn.it  llie> 
I  have  neither  s^id    ncir   dmie; 


.  ail  th.tt  th'.u  .It- 
The  censure  which  the  Shakespeare  of  nm-cli^^  ,  tnbute&t  to  m.in  he  h-is  %iu\  and  ilnne.  Histtiry 
hx«  incurred  for  the  tedious  pnKrattination  and  embrace^  but  a  |>orlii)n  (•!  duntinii,  :i  p^iint  on  the 
the  minute  details  of  his  fable ;  hit  ^low  unfolding  j  Mirfoce  of  the  f^lolie ;  thou  lia^t  embraced  ^11  pl:ue-« 
characten,  and  the  *lighteit  gesture*  of  bin  person-  j  and  all  times.  'Pile  human  bean,  whuh  has  c\er 
a^e*.  i*  extremely  unjust ;  for  is  it  not  evident  that  been  and  ever  nh-ill  lie  the  same.  ii  the  model  thou 
we  could  not  ha»'e  hi*  peculiar  excellences  with- !  copiest.  If  we  were  severely  to  criticise  the  l>e-<t 
out  thcue  attendant  defects?  When  characters  are  [  historian,  wmuUI  lie  maint.un  his  ground  is  thcu  ? 
very  fully  delineated,  the  narrative  mu«t  be  sus* ;  In  this  point  tif  view,  I  venture  to  s.iv,  thtt  rre- 
peiided.  '  Whenever  the  narrative  is  rapid,  which  [  quently  history  is  .1  miserible  romance ;  <ind  ro- 
Ki  much  delight*  superficial  readers,  the  characters  mance,  as  thou  tia-st  composed  it.  is  a  v;ood  histnry. 
cannot  be  %'eT>-  minutely  featured  ;  and  the  writer  |  Painter  of  nature,  thou  n';\e-  licst ' 
who  aims  to  instruct  'as  Richardson  avowrdW  did;  :  "I  have  never  yet  mrt  with  .1  person  wlio  sh.ired 
bv  the  c>low  and  eloquence  of  bi>  fcelinifs,  must  my  untliuMism,  tliit  I  w^s  ii'<t  ittnptf  ■!  tn  ein- 
oftrn  sacrifice  to  this,  his  local  descriptions.  Kich- 1  brace,  and  lo  pnss  hiin  in  my  .irm" ' 
arilson  himvrif  has  given  us  the  principle  th.it  |  "  Kich.irdvui  is  nn  iii'in  '  Hl^  l'i-<«  tmii  his  mc, 
^idctl  him  in  rompoMni;.  He  tells  us,  "II  1  give  I  as  it  my  linitluT  u.i«  iid  tnnre.  I  iHin-  hiin  m  tin 
specihes  and  ctioversations  I  oiinlit  to  give  them  i  heart  without  li.nini;  seen  liiin.  aiul  kii>i\miK 
jiiMly  ;  fcir  the  hunu^urs  and  tharacttri  of  pt.-p<ons  1  hiin  but  bv  his  Miorks.  He  his  not  h  iil  .ill  tht* 
•  JRfMit  he  known  unless  I  repeat  what  they  s.iy,  \  a-putation  he  mcriieil.  Knhardson  '  il  Imn'.;,  «h\ 
Jdd  their  mannrr  of  say  ini(."  j  merit  h.is   In-en  di!>{iuted  ;    h«»w   great   vilt   ihoii 

Fnrei^  critic-*  hai-e  been  more  just  to  Kichanl-  [  appear  to  our  children's  ihildren.  when  tlu>  shill 

view  thee  at  the  distame  \ie  now  >iew  tioiiicr. 
Then  who  will  »Lire  to  steal  a  line  Irom  thy 
sublime  Wfirki !  Thou  hast  had  more  adiiuiers 
amongM  iis  th.in  in  thine  own  country,  and  at 
this  I  rejoice  !" 

It  is  probable  tliat  to  a  Frenchman  the  styU-  of 
Richardson  is  not  soob)rctionable,vvlK-n  trinsl,tt''d, 
as  to  ourseUes.  I  think  m\st.-lt,  that  it  is  vt-ry 
idiomatic  and  energetit  ;  others  haic  tlioii<>ht  dil- 


•on  than  m.iny  of  his  own  countrymen.  1  shall 
notice  the  opinions  of  three  celcbratetl  WTiten, 
D'Alembcrt.  RotLsseiu,  and  Diderot. 

D'AlcmlMTTt  w.is  a  great  mathematician.  His 
lirrnry  taste  was  extremely  cold :  he  was  not 
w^mhy  r»f  reading  Richardson.  Tfie  volumes,  if 
he  ever  read  them,  must  have  fdlen  fn)m  his 
hands.  The  delicate  and  subtile  turnings,  those 
Wds  of  the  hum.in  heart,  which  retiuire  v»  nice 
i  touch,  wx<  a  problem  which  the  m.ttlietnatician  ;  ferentli.     The  misrnriunc  ot  Ki>  h  inl^'fiM  w.l^,  ih.it 


couhl  neser  solve.  There  is  no  other  demonstra- 
tion in  the  human  heart,  but  an  appeal  to  its 
fre^tnk^s;  «nd  what  are  the  calculating  feelings 
nf  an  arithmetician  of  lines  and  ciir\es?  He 
Therefore  decUred  of  Richanlaon  that  "  La  Na- 
ture est  bonne  k  imiter,  mais  non  pas  jusqu'au 
I'enniii." 

But  thus  it  was  not  with  the  other  two  con* 
genial  geniuses'  The  fervent  opinion  of  Rous- 
seau must  be  familiar  to  the  reader;  but  Diderot, 
m  hbi  eluge  on  Richardson,  exceeds  even  Rousseau 
ID  the  enthusiasm  of  his  feelings.  1  extract  some 
of  the  most  interesting  pasnges. 

Of  Clariwa  he  sa^-s.  "  I  yet  remember  with  de- 
light the  first  time  it  came  into  my  hands.  I  was 
in  the  country.     How  deliciously '  was  I  affected  ! 


he  W.IS  unskilliil  in  the  .irt  ot  untmi:,  ami  tint  he 
could  nc\er  l.t>  the  |xrn  down  \ihiic  his  inkhorn 
supplied  it. 

He  was  di'lighted  t)y  his  own  works.  No  mthor 
cnjojed  v»  much  the  bliss  nl  encissivc  iondufss. 
I  heard  from  the  late  ('harlf>tte  I.enox,  the  anec- 
dote which  v>  severely  reprimanded  his  innntent 
vanity,  whicli  Boswell  h.is  reconlcd.  '["hi?.  I.hIv 
was  a  regular  vi-iitor  at  Ricliardsnn's  house,  anil 
she  could  scarcely  recollect  one  \isil  \vhi»li  was 
not  tixed  by  our  author  reading  one  oi  Ins  volu- 
minous letters,  or  two  or  three,  if  his  amlititr  w.w 
quiet  and  friendlv. 

The  extreme  delight  which  he  felt  on  a  review 
of  his  own  works  flie  works  thcmscUcs  witness. 
Each  is  an  evidence  of  what  some  will  deem  a 


{ 


THEOLOGICAL  STYLE.— [SFLUESCE  OF  NAMES. 


ibourcd  luoFp-ncs  o(  thv  work  itaell,  thai  ei 
he  bnnddt  Id^loi  of  some  'ncitnt  cluac  pj 
o  the  object  of  hn  Dhrmefic  imipiution. 
cTcn]  pLun  there,  he  contrive*  to  repeat  I 


re  odT  euily  changed  ^" 
object  of  th^r  autbon  id 


n  hb  third  aod  Ad 


mile  and  prodigal . 


The  it>'Jc  DOW  notked  waf  'ai 
flH^.tc«l  the  wrir]Df«  of  our  di 


(old  him.  anuniE  other  hriraui  tluf,  that  he  did 

It  must  be  fODfeaaedlhanhe  rabbin,  eanfiderina 
he  (Duld  not  cDoacientiouilv  have  the  fame  creed 
u  AddiwD.  did  not  deliver  any  very  "  heinoui 

nothing  to  *>  with  out  own ;  and  thai "  we  ihoulJ 


the  tlaimanl  has  aAcied  ni ;  and  the  accidental 

operated  like  m^e.     But  the  facti  eonnecced 
with  thii  lubjccl  will  show  bow  thii  prejudice  hai 

Sterne  haa  touched  on  thli  unreaMtubLc  pm- 
pentity  of  judging  bj  namii,  in  Wn  humotoui 
vcouni  o>  the  eMcr  Mr.  Shandy's  niiem  of 
Chriitian  namo.    And  wnkes  has  enprtaied,  in 

baplismai  mitkj,  even  in  mattera  of  poetry  t     He 


aritea  in  this  manner  on  Judgea    .  , 

!dJb.— None  would  have  Jriimtd  of    li  Duk6ir.    At  fim  Hie  ):lng  allowed  him  to  ECl  lid 

racer,  he  rinally  had  his  majBty'i  ORlmance  to  be 

Mil.  Atcording  to  Plalina,  Sergiui  It.  wai  Ihe 
bm  pope  who  changed  his  lume  in  aaeending  the 
papal  ihrone ;  because  hii  proper  name  was  Ar'i- 
mslA.  i-ery  unauittble  with  the  pomp  of  the  tiara. 


i 


TXFL  UEXCE  OF  XAMFsS^, 


20 1 


eqneacrian  order,  having  low  and  vulgar  nanus, 
«  nevr>nAmed  on  the  occasion,  lest  the  former 
ibonki  dbgrace  the  dignity. 

When  BarbuT,  a  French  wit,  was  chosen  for  the 
preceptor  of  ColbertH  son,  he  felt  his  nanu  was  so 
uncongenial  to  hb  new  profession,  that  he  assumed 
the  more  splendid  one  of  lyAucour,  bv  which  he 
is  now  known.  Madame  Govu%  had  married  a 
pennn  named  Bonhomnu,  but  slie  would  never 
exchanec  her  nobler  Spanish  name  tn  prefix  her 
married  one  to  her  romances,  which  indicated  too 
much  of  meek  humility.  Guex  (a  beggar)  li  a 
French  writer  of  great  pomp  of  style  ;  but  he  felt 
such  extneme  delicacy  at  so  low  a  name,  that  to 
give  Sonne  authority  to  the  splendour  of  his  die- 
tion,  he  assumed  the  name  of  his  estate,  and  is 
well  known  as  Batxac,  A  French  poet  of  the 
name  of  Thenphile  fiaut,  finding  that  his  surname 
pronounced  like  ftau  (calO  exposed  him  to  the 
infinite  jests  of  the  minor  wiL%  silently  dropped 
it,  b>-  retaining  the  ntore  poetical  appellation  of 
ThevpluU.  The  learned  BaiHet  has  collected  various 
Kterary  artifices  emplmxd  by  some  who,  still  pre- 
serving  a  natural  attachment  to  the  names  of  their 
fathers  yet  blushing  at  the  same  time  for  their 
meanness,  have  in  their  Latin  works  attempted  to 
obviate  the  ridicule  which  they  provokecl.  One 
Gaucher  ;lieft-handed)  borrowed  the  name  of 
icnfUf  because  Sco'ola,  having  burnt  his  right 
arm,  became  consequently  left-handed.  Thus  also 
one  De  ta  Borgne  Cone-cyedj  called  himself  Strabo} 
De  Charprntier  tcok  that  of  Fahricius ;  De  f'altt 
translated  hi^  Ser^ilius ;  and  an  unlucky  gentle- 
man, who  bore  the  name  of  Du  bout  d^hcmme, 
boldly  assumed  that  of  Hrulus.  Dorat,  a  French 
poet,  bad  for  his  real  name  Ditnemandi,  which,  in 
the  dialect  of  the  Limousins  signifies  one  who 
dtnes  in  the  morning:  that  is  who  has  no  other 
cfinner  than  hb  breakfast.  I'His  degrading  name 
he  changed  to  Dorat,  or  gilded,  a  nickname  which 
one  of  hb  ancestors  had  norne  for  his  fair  tresses. 
But  by  changing  his  name,  his  feelings  were  not 
entirely  quieted,  for  unfortunately  his  daughter 
cherished  an  invtiicible  passion  for  a  learned  man, 
who  unluckily  was  named  Goutu :  that  is,  a  shark, 
or  gluttonous  as  a  shark.  Mi^  Dunemandi  felt 
naturallv  a  strong  attraction  for  a  goulu ;  and  in 
*pite  of  'Yver  father's  remonstrances,  sije  once  more 
renewed  his  sorrows  in  thb  alliance  ! 

There  are  unfortunate  names,  which  are  very 
Injurious  to  the  cause  in  which  they  arc  engaged  ; 
for  instance,  the  long  parliament  in  Cromwell's 
time,  called  by  derision  the  Rump,  was  headed  by 
one  Bareb«nei,  a  leatheneller.  It  was  afterwarib 
called  by  his  unlucky  name,  which  served  to 
heighten  the  ridicule  cast  over  it  by  the  nation. 

Formerly  a  custom  prevailed  with  learned  men 
to  change  their  names.  The>'  showed  at  once 
their  contempt  for  \  ulgar  denominations  and  their 
ingenious  eruflition.  Tliev  christened  themselves 
with  Latin  and  C;reek.  Tlin  .iisguising  of  names 
came,  at  length,  to  be  considered  to  nave  a  poli- 
tical tendency-,  and  so  much  alarmed  Pope  Paul  IL, 
that  he  impnsoned  several  persons  for  their  using 
certain  affected  names  and  some,  indeed,  which 
they  could  not  give  a  reason  why  they  assumed. 
Deiidrrius  Erasmus  was  a  name  formed  out  of  his 
familv  name  Gerard,  which  in  Dutch  signifies 
amiaf>Ie;    or    Gar   «//,   aerd    nature.      He   lint 


changed  it  to  a  Latin  wonl  of  much  the  same  sig- 
nification, desiderius,  which  afterwards  he  refined 
into  the  Greek  Erasmus,  by  which  names  he  is 
now  known.  The  celebrated  ReucMtn,  which  in 
German  signifies  smnke,  considered  it  more  digni- 
fied to  smoke  in  (>reek  by  the  name  of  Capnio. 
An  Italian  ph\-sician  of  the  name  of  Senxa  Malixia 
prided  himself  as  much  on  his  translating  it  into 
the  Greek  Akakta,  a»  on  the  works  which  he  pub- 
lished under  that  name.  One  of  the  most  ami.ilile 
of  the  reformers  was  originally  named  //rr/z 
Schxvarts  (black  earth),  which  he  elegantly  turned 
into  the  Greek  name  of  Melancthon.  'fh'e  vulgar 
name  of  a  great  Italian  {loet  was  Trapasso,  but 
when  the  learned  (;ravina  revived  to  devtite  the 
youth  to  the  muM.*^,  he  gave  him  a  mellifluous 
name,  which  they  have  long  known  and  cherished 
— Mttastasio. 

Harsh  names  will  have,  in  spite  of  all  nur  philo- 
sophy, a  painful  and  luilicrous  cfTcit  on  <iur  (Mn 
and  our  association^  :  it  is  vexolinus  that  the  soft- 
ness of  delicious  vowels,  or  the  ru^^^cdnen^  of  in- 
exorable consonants,  should  at  all  he  connected 
with  a  man's  happiness,  or  even  have  an  influence 
on  his  fortune. 

The  actor  Macklin  was  softened  <lown  by  taking 
in  the  first  and  Li<t  syllables  of  the  name  of  Muck- 
laughlin,  as  Mallnch  was  polished  to  .Xfaliet,  .ind 
even  our  sublime  Milton,  in  a  moment  of  hiimcmr 
and  hatred  to  the  Scots,  condescends  to  iiiMnuate 
that  their  barbarous  namen  are  nmboliral  of  their 
natures, — and  from  a  man  of  the  name  of  .\f,tc 
ColUittok  he  expects  no  mercy.  Virgil,  when 
young,  formed  a  design  of  a  national  poem,  but 
was  soon  discouraged  from  prrHceding,  merely  by 
the  roughness  and  asperity  of  the  old  Roman 
names,  such  as  Decius  Stus :  Lucumo  -,  I'lhtus 
Caudex.  The  same  thing  has  h.A)>iM:ned  to  a 
friend  who  l>e|(an  an  Kpic  on  the  subject  of 
Drake's  discoveries ;  the  name  of  the  hero  often 
will  pnxlucc  a  ludicrous  eflfcct,  but  one  of  the 
most  unlucky  of  his  chief  heroes  mu^t  be  J'hnmas 
Doughty  I  One  of  Blackmore'schief  heroe5  in  his 
Alfred  is  named  Gunter ;  a  printer's  erratum  might 
have  been  fatal  to  all  his  heroism ;  as  it  is,  he 
mokes  a  sorrv*  appearance.  Mcta^txsio  found  him- 
self in  the  same  situation.  In  one  of  hi^  letters  he 
^Tites,  "  The  title  of  my  new  ojiera  is  //  Rr  Pastor. 
The  chief  incident  is  the  restitution  of  the  king- 
dom of  Sidon  to  the  lawful  heir;  a  prince  with 
such  a  hypochondriac  name,  that  he  would  have 
disgraced  the  title-page  of  any  piece  :  who  would 
have  been  able  to  l)ear  an  opera  entitled  L'Abdolo- 
nimof  I  have  contrii'cd  to  name  him  as  seldom 
as  possible."  So  true  is  it,  ai  the  caustic  Boilcau 
exclaims  of  an  epic  pK>ct  of  his  d.i\s,  who  had 
shown  some  dexterity  in  cacophony,  when  he 
ehose  his  hero— 

O  le  plaiiiant  prcjjet  d'un  Poetc  ignorant 
Qui  de  tant  de  hcri>?i  va  choisir  ChiUebiand  ; 
D'un  aeul  nom  ciueli|uelois  le  son  «liir  et  bizarre 
Rend  un  poemeentier,  on  burle^juc  au  l)acl>arre. 

Art  Poetiquf,  CIII.  v.  341. 

"  In  such  a  crowd  the  Poet  were  to  blame 
To  choose  King  Chilperic  lor  his  hero's  name." 

Sir  \V.  SoAMKs. 

This  epic  poet  perceiving  the  town  joined  in 
the  severe  raillery  of  the  i>oet,  published  a  long 


fsii.ri\'  i:  "/■  SAMi.s. 


ill   I.   I.c  r    >•!    1-.    ^    !.(,T-''-    I'  I'l.-     ;     I. lit    •!,.      'I'V  Ii    -A    1-     1I\- 

t'\> 'F  I'.'.'.i.  .  Hill  tli^-  '-iiii  [>c  ct  itt(  rw  ir'i<  (  li  m  jcil 
(.'...■.;«/» a'.,.' J  name  to  c'.<i?/f J  M.irfel,  wlmh  pro- 
bably wai  disco\crcd  to  have  something  more  hu- 
mane. Comeille's  Ptrtluiriie  was  an  un-'ucccxiful 
tragedy,  and  Voltaire  dediicc&  its  ill  fortune  partly 
from  Its  barbarous  nanus,  siuh  ai  Garibald  anil 
Edi'ifi^.  Voltaire,  in  uiving  the  names  of  the 
founders  of  Helvetic  freedom,  says  the  dilficulty  of 
pronouncing  the^  re^^pcctabk*  names  is  injurious 
to  their  celebrity  ;  they  are  McUhtad,  Stauffacher, 
And  I'altherfutit. 

We  almost  hesitate  to  credit  what  we  know  to 
be  true,  that  the  Ungth  or  the  shortness  of  a  naniir 
can  seriously  influence  the  mind.  But  history 
recofjls  many  facts  of  this  nature.  Some  nations 
have  long  cherisheil  a  feeling  that  there  is  a  certain 
elevation  or  abasement  in  proper  names.  Mon- 
taigne on  thin  subject  s;iy$,  **  A  gentleman,  «>ne  of 
my  neighbours,  in  over-valuing  the  excellencies  of 
old  limes,  never  omitted  noticing  the  pri<le  and 
magnificence  of  the  names  of  the  nobility  of  those 
days!  Don  (irumtiian,  Qtiadra)i;aM,  /frgesilan,  when 
luily  sounded,  were  evidently  men  of  another 
startup  than  Peter,  (iiles,  and  Muhel."  What  could 
be  hoped  for  from  the  names  of  Ebenc/er,  Malachi, 
and  Methusalem  ?  The  Spani-trds  ha\'e  long  l)cen 
known  for  cheriithing  a  p.xv>ion  for  dignified  narne^, 
and  are  marvellou<>ly  affected  by  long  and  volumi- 
nous ones ;  to  enlarge  them  they  often  add  the 
places  of  their  residence.  We  ourselves  seem 
affected  by  triple  names ;  and  the  authors  of  cer- 
tain periodical  publications  alwav's  assume  for 
their  nom  de  f^uerre  a  triple  name,  which  doubtle«« 
raises  them  much  higher  in  their  reader's  esteem 
than  a  mere  Christian  and  surname.  Many 
Spaniards  have  given  themselves  names  from  some 
remarkable  incident  in  their  lives.  One  took  the 
name  of  the  Koyal  Transport  for  ha\ing  conducted 
the  Infanta  in  Italv.  Orendaycs  added  de  la  Pa/, 
for  having  signetf  the  peace  in  172c.  Navarro, 
;U'ter  a  naval  battle  off  Toulon,  added  \a  Vittoria, 
though  he  had  remained  in  safety  at  Cadiz  while 
the  French  admiral  I^  Court  had  fought  the  battle, 
which  wa»  entirely  in  favour  of  the  English.  A 
favourite  of  the  King  of  Spain,  a  great  genius,  and 
the  friend  of  Karinelli,  who  had  spnmg  from  a 
very  obscure  origin,  to  express  his  contempt  of 
these  empty  and  haughty  names,  assumed,  when 
called  to  the  administratmn,  that  of  the  Marquis 
of  La  Ensenada  •;  nothing  in  himsclO. 

But  the  influence  o\  long  nanus  is  of  vcr>*  an- 
cient standing.  I.ucian  notices  one  Simon,  who 
loming  to  a  great  fortime  aggrandiHcd  his  name 
to  Simnnidts.  DioeUsian  hao  once  been  plain 
DibiUs  iK'fbre  he  was  emperor.  When  Hruna 
I  ecame  queen  of  France,  it  was  thought  proper 
to  convey  s<»me  of  the  regal  pomp  in  her  name  by 
(.tiling  her  lirunehault. 

The  Spaniards  then  must  feel  a  most  singular 
contempt  for  a  lery  short  name,  and  on  this  sub- 
ject Fuller  has  recorded  a  ple.i»ant  fact.  An 
(  pulent  citi/en  of  the  name  of  John  Cuts  :what 
name  can  be  more  unluckily  short  ?^  was  ordered 
by  Elizabeth  to  receive  the  Spanish  ambassador ; 
but  the  latter  comvlained  grievously,  and  thought 
he  was  disparaged  by  the  shortness  of  his  namr. 
He  imagined  that  a  man  bearing  a  monosyllabic 
name  could  nevtrr,  in  the  great  alphal>et  of  civil 


t     ■'    ■  ■-  —  i  ■»-'*'■"-'  '■'JL"...>...JL'"i 


lit'',  lii\i;  ]'i-i |f .riiii  ■!  .iir.tli-i.^  c'c^r  <-r  I;  i-ii.:- 
..|.K- ;  l.ui  uh'ii  l.t.  l-,iuivl  tti.t  lu-:i',-^t  .'  '  .-.  t'<-. 
ili^p!'i\cil  .1  hospitility  whuli  luvl  noth;nc:  m  'i-..- 
svllubic  in  it,  he  gro.mcd  cml)  it  the  utterance  rt 
the  name  of  his  host. 

ThcTe  are  names  indeed,  which  in  the  social 
circle  will  in  >pite  of  all  due  gravity  awaken  a 
harmless  smile,  and  Shenstone  solemnly  thanked 
God  that  his  name  was  not  liable  to  a  pun.  There 
are  some  names  which  excite  horror,  such  as  Mr. 
Stab-back  :  others  contempt,  as  Mr.  Twopcnov ; 
and  others  of  vulgar  or  al>surd  signification,  sub- 
ject too  often  to  the  invilence  of  domestic  wit- 
lings, which  occasions  irritation  even  in  the  minds 
of  wortljy,  but  sutfering,  men. 

There  is  an  association  of  plexsing  ideas  with 
certain  nanus ;  and  in  the  literary  world  the}' 
produce  a  tineeflect.  Bltmmfield  is  a  imnte  apt 
and  fortiuiate  for  that  rustic  bard :  as  Fltrrua 
seems  to  describe  his  sweet  and  flowery  style. 
I>r.  Parr  derived  his  first  acquaintance  with  the 
late  Mr.  Homer  from  the  uptncus  of  his  nam^ 
associating  with  his  pursuits.  Our  writers  of 
Romances  and  Novels  arc  initiated  into  all  the 
arcana  of  nanus,  which  costs  them  many  painful 
inventions.  It  is  recorded  of  one  of'  the  old 
Spanish  writers  of  romance,  that  he  was  for  many 
days  at  a  loss  to  coin  a  fit  name  for  one  of  his 
giants ;  he  wislted  to  hammer  out  one  equal  in 
magnitude  to  the  person  he  conceived  in  imagina- 
tion ;  and  in  the  haughty  and  lofty  name  of  Tru- 
quitantos,  he  thought  he  {)ad  succeeded.  Richard- 
son, the  great  father  of  our  novelists,  appears  to 
have  considered  the  name  of  Sir  CharUt  Granduon, 
as  perfect  as  his  charac  ter,  for  his  heroine  write*, 
"You  know  his  noble  nanu,  my  Lucy."  He  fell 
the  same  for  his  Clementina,  for  Miss  Byron  writess 
"Ah,  Lucy,  what  a  pretty  nanu  is  Clement ina'" 
We  experience  a  certain  tentleniess  for  nanus,  and 
persons  of  refined  imaginations  are  fond  to  give 
affectionate  or  lively  epithets  to  things  and  persons 
thev  love.  Petrarch  would  call  one  friend  L<lius, 
an((  another  Socrates,  as  descriptive  of  their  cha- 
racter. In  more  ancient  times,  in  our  own 
countr}-,  the  ladies  appear  to  have  been  e«)iully 
scnsible  to  poetical  or  elegant  names^  stich  as 
yftkia,  Celieia,  Diana,  Helena,  Sec,  a  curious  point 
amply  proved  by  Mr.  Chalmers,  in  his  Apology  for 
the  Belie\'ers  in  the  Shakopeare  Papers,  p.  178. 
Spenser,  the  poet,  gave  to  his  two  sons  two  name* 
of  this  kind  ;  he  called  one  Siliartus,  from  the 
woody  Kilcolman,  hia  estate ;  and  the  other  Pert' 
grinc',  from  his  having  been  bom  in  a  strange 
place,  and  his  mother  then  travelling.  The  fair 
Elotsa  gave  the  whimsical  name  of  Astrolabus  to 
her  Ixjy ;  it  bore  some  reference  to  the  stars,  as 
her  own  to  the  sun. 

Whether  this  name  of  ^strolabus  had  any 
scientific  influence  over  the  son,  I  know  not ;  but 
I  have  no  doubt  that  whimsical  names  may  have 
a  great  influence  over  <iur  characten.  The  prac- 
tice of  romantic  n.tnies  among  pennons,  even  of 
the  lowest  orders  of  S4iciety,  has  become  a  ver>- 
general  c\'il,  and  doubtless  many  unfortunate 
beauties,  of  the  names  of  Clarusa  and  Eloita, 
might  have  escaped  under  the  less  dangerous 
appellatives  of  Klit^beth  or  Deborah.  I  know  a 
person  who  has  not  p^issed  his  life  without  some 
inconvenience  from  his  name,  mean  talents  and 


■  -■L'  ■■■_■.:  'J  .  _■■-■-%  mi^ 


iyf.<'lH.l 


^*L1.""L  , 


rSFLVBNCE  OF  NAMES. 


■he  mvirf  »und  of  h»  n^mc.  .ml 
ciccui  bec^iiK  hi.  umc  ipproocl 
to  the  hckn'cd    one  tA  the  phiLow] 

Anj^iflMTf  lunKi  wu  u  ktKmi;,  riui  c 
AmuD  cxpctUiioDppvEacommanii  K 

populu  pKjutUn  that  Ibc  Bcli^oa  wci 
m  Afhca.    SuctoHim  obKrva  thil  zll 

perilled  bv  the  iword.  The  tmpf 
cavxijtA  hiraKLf  Ibi'  ihc  Hnnlioui 
EmpreiB  f  uUa.  from  tbc  fiuhty  attend 
hM  •onif.  Thi.  tiniifn  prcimlice  ot 
prcrailed  in  modern  J 


wished  to  prcwTi'ti  hii  < 


-;;  but  be  E 
e  of  ciidiiuli 


usnl  the  pov 


kid  prcKFVcit  thtfir  uir 
I  the  hN  feu  of  their  ponti 


ti  Ihu  111  the  QuRU  of  Nipla  of  the  ninu 
laiL,  andthe  KionofScotlindorthe  name  ol 
I,  have  been  uafortuMte,  and  we  have  fonna! 
bs  of  Ihe  fatalitr  of  chtiitlan  lumn. 
ia  a  vulgar  nntion  (hat  evtry  female  oF  rb< 
i  of  ^gnts  ii  fated  10  become  mad.    Ever> 

rejudice-    Heiren^  the  Spanith  hiMDTian,  re. 


beautifuli  and  intended 


b)'  the  Spant- 


the  feeling*,  Inm  the  a«o 
I  bare  teen  the  Chiiitiai 

caUed  Btut  h  (Hi^-^ 


lis  gnd^ther,  vrhi 


I  priniipal  aretaltecl  liy  the 
Let  n>  bope  not  lor  hn  uniiie 
that  gotemment.  accoTdiiw  to 
capn^ou.  principle,  r    The  inn 
bate  felt  to  peipcluate  their  a 


r?"eo'Sf  hS'pl'ace'B 


THE  JEWS  OF  YORK. 


"  dothc  kitidie  quika  of  Vni  ind  liking  iiumE 

on.  hiving  eie- 

nfuied  to  send  bbi  Wfl,  noer  hiti 

?^™"t'hl; 

like,  pnferring  the  honour  of 

u>d  >ienTteu.l  lutaB  vmHndie^ 
nuo  ^iimeJI  ha  mtlced  the  pn 

.    Thenihlime 

»nt  topic-hi. 

nune.  ind  his  exalted  hnc)'  «u 

'deli^^JS'^th 

»fai.((/^.i  iiawi,  B  veil  u  mn- 

Mher'^.pKie,  of 

^"'ioulS  h"v?*^'ppslE^ 

citoui  thil  per- 

live  na^,.    Acconling  lo   Aul 

t   <!fllius   the 

AtheniuH  enicied  hr  >  public 

deeiw,  Ihil  no 

.bve  .hDuld  ever  be^  Ihf  coiue 

tosiinn ;  Kimes  which  hid  been 

do-oted  lo  the 

libcniei  or  Iheir  eonntrr,  they  a 

puriciuH  thould  not  be  home  h> 

IVY  other  piiTi- 

ciin  nt  ilut  bttiilv,  Ihit  (heir  vei 

ry  nimeiniiflhl 

be  dcgndcd  ind  eipire  ■-ith  t 
EivH   1  pleiiinK   pioof  of   nil 
being  cemented^  •  .«...-  by 

between  the  Romuu  and  the  Sib 

mis,  ihu  Ihev 

to  melt  the  two  nilioiu  jnio  one 

ihould  beir  their  «iii«  conjoin 

lithe  Romin 

ihould  idd  bit  to  Ibe  Sibine,  ind 

the  Sibioe  tike 

'  inlmib^  M  Deborah  tt 


The  liidiuu  of  Nonh  An 

—the  hrtndffe — Diwii  of  the  Div  '- 
AiTow<— Piih-openeTl — Sun-bright  I 


THE  JEWS  OP  YORK. 

rrilic  pinona:  implicabie  hitred  utempling  i 
Mlule  tenjeinci,  while  Ihit  mgeinre.  thoueh 
ipotent,  with  dignified  ud  lilent  boiror,  tinki 


to  conrJUile  the  ro>'il  rrmecHoiit  brought  their 
i-obtl  ind  tbe  mob  iinigined  Itut  lliey  hid  leagued 


dlvcoi-cndi  Iher  riewdivenly  in  grelt  eonvtemi- 
lion,  while  many  were  ddgged  out  vixh  little  re- 

A  rnmnur  ntread  rapidlv  through  the  cEt}',  thai 

Mcred.  The  populace,  at  once  eager  of  royalty 
ind  liol,  pillaged  and  burnt  their  hoturs  and  mur- 
dered the  devoted  Jewi.  Benedict,  a  Jew  or  York. 


•erianli'lirmited  the" 
»>™pilh)^(|Kv  eicite. 

rige.  Tlif  people 

joicmor  o(  York  C»«le,  and  prtrailed  on 

ui  a  suspicion  ariiinf  that  the  governor, 


ploy 

with  (be  KddicrT  felt  nch  i  deiire  of  <li 

."Si. 

r,  rcvt>ked  it,  but  i( 


THS  SOVKHEIONTr  OF  THE  USAS. 


auperior  dtluiu,  who,  perhap 


rlKgy  (the  bitlutoiB  tierg)-  of  iBost  lii)-!) 


words  in  ■  linn  iibJ  ikcMvv 
tlioK  who  do  not  ippror? 


in  hii  lanLi 


e,  which  be  contidcred  ai  2  chI  of , 
itcruedly  ncliimed,  "  Dairoy  the 
«in.iiiiB  ■«  «cwA."  Thii  i^ritutl  LKConiim  in- 
rigonlcd  (be  um  of  men,  whn  perbipi  wmted 
DO  Other  idiniU«tive  than  the  hope  of  obtuniDg 
the  Immeiue  proprrly  of  the  boKBcd.  II  19  re- 
ined of  Ihli  nnon,  Ihu  «ciy  momtDH  hefore  be 

■  coosecnted  wjifetp  One  diy  harin;  nbproAched 
too  peiT,  ttetcnded  u  he  cHinired  by  hn  turplicv, 
ibb  cborch  miUUnt  wu  cnHhed  hy  1  hEavr  kig- 
menl  of  the  will,  nlted  (Run  ihc  bitiltnienl. 

■ut  IbeHidityDfeeftaln  plunder  prei'iited  over 
njr  nflecttoD,  which,  un  iiHilher  ocCHon,  the 
loa  of  »  plDui  ■  leader  might  hive  nlKd.  Their 
•tUcki  continued  1  till  u  length  the  Jeai  perceii-ed 
they  could  hold  out  no  iMigei,  ind  ■  council 
w»  celled,  to  consider  what  remained  to  be  done 
In  the  extremity  of  danger. 

Amona  the  iewi,  (bar  elder  Rabbin  wu  mon 
Teapeclea'  It  bas  been  cuiEomaty  with  rliis  people 
to  int'lte  for  thli  place  wme  foreltnier.  renowned 
uWDg  Ibem  for  the  depth  of  his  learning,  and  Ihe 

•enl  orer  to  InMrncI  them  in  their  laws  and  wai  a 
scnVUcd. 

,.„.,.,„,™„«S?i 

■lie  for  bis  law ;  for  that  bw  which  we  have  che- 
rished (mm  the  tint  hour  il  was  giren,  which  we 
bai-c  pnncrvcd  pure  Ihmuftbout  oiir  captitlt^  In 

cales,  can  we  do  less  than  die  >  Posterity  shall  be- 
hold lhl«  book  of  truth,  sealed  with  out  blood ; 
and  oar  death,  while  It  display*  nor  alncerity.  shall 
impaR  conlideoce  to  Ibe  waaderer  of  tsncl. 
Death  il  belore  our  o-cs.  and  we  have  only  to 


spirit  of  Ooil  in  a  dove, , 


trace  the  fnti 


T  number  attached  tbemseli-es  to  their  veiK- 
pricM.    They  DOW  employed  tiKnvelvet  in 

of  tnuclTw  ID  Ibe  timid  and  Irresohite  hand 
of  the  women,  lint  destnn^  his  wife  and  chil- 
dren, and  then  bintwlf.  locenui  aikd  the  Habliin 
alone  remaned.  Their  Ufe  was  protracted  lo  the 
last,  that  they  might  see  ereryming  performcfl, 
according  lo  tbeir  orders.  Joccnus,  being  (be 
chief  Jew,  wu  dMinguiihcd  bv  the  last  mirk  of 
human  Twect,  In  rKcivlnir  his  dealb  Ihim  the 
consecnied  hand  of  the  aged  Kabhin.  who  imtne- 
diatdy  after  perf(>nnvd  Ine  mdancboly  dul\  un 

ill  thia  was  transacted  in  Ihr  depth  oF  Ibe  uigbt. 


1  on  the  battlements,  pointing  ID  their  ex- 
Unci  bttlhnn.  When  they  opened  the  gates  of  the 

late  RaiiWn ;  lor  the  moltitudc,  bursting  throu^ 
the  solitary  courts,  found  Ibetmelres  dnrauded  of 
their  hopes,  and  in  a  moment  avenged  IhemKlvn 


whom  the  historian  can  only  cursorily  observe, 
that  Hve  hundred  dcitrDved  themiclTes  j  but  il  Is 
phUoaopber  who  knqiiires  into  the  causen,  and 
nifliiiurT  M  these  glorious  ulddc*.  These  are 
wics  which  meet  onlr  the  eye  of  few,  yet  thn 
of  inlinitely  more  adranlage  than  those  whicS 

meditating  on  IbeBcKeBnol  heroic  exertion  j  and 
u  i»-  ^Qf  1^  histories  we  make  but  a  blow  pm^rciB 


bmlliar  with  the  iidmalhig  vi^ns  nf  Hat 

habhlu  had  probably  read  only  the  Pmlalcur 
aiHl  mingled  with  companions  of  mpm  nccup 
tloiks,and  ukeancr  minds.  Cito  was  accuston* 
to  the  grandeur  of  Ihc  nusltesa  o<  the  univanc,  ai 
Ihe  Rahhin  to  the  liltk-ncM  of  ■  prmniclal  low 
Men,  like  t^ctniea,  may  be  placed  in  au  obscu 
And  uBlliVDunblc  light  j  hut  Ibe  bnest  picture, 

aitd  cokiuriiig  of  Ihc  master.     My  Rabbin  is 
companion  for  Cato.    His  history  is  a  tale 
'■  Which  Cato-s  self  had  not  disdain'd  to  hear.' 


OS  THE  CUSTOit  OF  KTSStSG  HANDS. 


ihe  KB  Tilhoul  wbich  Gnat  Briuin  «aul3  nuc 

a  binn  philippit  igiiDst  thii  •orereipit)'.  ind  » 
notice  adiptcd  to  the  tvritcr^  puTpOK  of  tvo  great 

Groduii  on  thi^  lubject.    The  loUoiting  it  ttw 
BTitiih  cfrW-    The  French  and  D\ilct  *■--■  "■■' 


£i^!^^Si, 


grcii  Omii 


™.!S 


in  1618.  Seidell  bad  compaacd  anollier 
publiihed  (ill  the  diipule  terived  the  en 

rieali5-D(g 


™X"n™h 


arguments  of  SeLdcn,  who  hai  proved  hj'  re 

lei^ied  great  suim^  without  crcn  rhe  eoncnrrence 

Seldep't  work  was  placed  in  the  coum 

the  Bichequcr,  and  m  the  coun  of  admiralty,  ai 

Dutch  thcmseltei.  who  now  ararcd  to  acknc7wird| 


ID  SeldeD^a  argume 


d  Ihe 


irith   a 


nchdyke  adiivd  the  itatcs  to  luppres  Ihe 
td  hy  the  i-aif^,  and  not  by  the  ptn. 


N  THE  CUSTOM  OF  KISSWO  H 


might  be  adduce 


pic-— when  he  entered,  he  touched  his  m 


From  rhe  Oreek*  it   patted  to  Ihe  Romaru. 
whidi  they  were  ignorant  of  the  origin  or  the 


nonial  itlkiD  rendered  leopecuMc  Ibc 

dined 

with 

htlea  preceded  writing,  and  perhaps 

'"-^r. 

fhey  mlicitcd.    In  Homer  we  see  Priam 

to  show  ibis  mark  of  Tcnect  to  their  general 
and  tbnr  kiiaiiig  the  hand  of  Catu  when  be  w 


rOPER ^UTKRAUY  CLUfPOSlTrOX. 


201 


d'fury  circumstance,  at  i  pcnol  nf  «tK:li  rvtinc-    prvdcce»ion,  tcM)k  advanta^^c  of  the  dhiMtint  in 

iXKXit.     The    STcat  mpect   p.u«l  to  the   tritiune^  ^  the  n>wl  l.imilit.->  v(  tr.iiue,  aiuJ  dnl  not  lie^it.itc 

cock<iils.  and  dictaton.  ohiiged  iiidi%-idiia]H  to  Jiie  '  t<t  |>iacc  hi^  n.imc  Itcforc  th.it  of  the  k.iiii»-  aiui 

With  them  in  a  more  distant  and  rexpcctlul  m.tn-  'emperors  of  the  house  of  Fr.inc?.   to  whutn  he 

ner  ;  and   tnfttead  of  embrjcinc:  them  2s  they  did  <  wrote.    Since  that  time  he  has  t>een  imit.ttol  hy 

lormerty,  the%'  considered  thenriKivcs  at  fortunate    ill  hi^  ^ucce<«r>r9,  and  this  encroachment  on  the 

II  allovreU  to  ku&  their  hands.   Under  the  emperor*,  ,  honoun  of  monarchy  ha^  pavtcd  into  a  custom 

kn«tng  hands  became  an  e«ential  duty,  even  for    from  having  been  tolerated  in  its  commencement. 

the    grcAt    them«clve5;    inferior    courtieT»    were        ConccrninK  the  acknowledged  ir^a/^iMi/^  o//Ar 

obliged  to  be  content  to  adore  the  purple,  by  kueeN  I  Popr/,   it   appears  that  Gregory  VI I.,  in  council, 

inj;,   touching  the  robe  of  the  emperor  by  the  ;  decreed  that  the  church  c(   Rome  neither  had 

h0it  hand,  and  carr}-inc  it  to  the  mouth.     Etcn  \errtd,  and   nnrr  should  err.     It   wrt^   i\n\s   thi^ 

thi*  wa»   thought   too   nice  ;  and   at   length  they  ,  prerogative  of  hii  holinon  ticcame  receivtnl,  till 

sajulcd  the  emperor  at  a  distance,  by  kisMng  their    1313.  when  John  XXII.  ahro^^nted  deirce>  made 

band*,  in  the  same  manner  a»  when  they  adored  '  by  tha-e  popen  hi»  preckvevwirt,  and  ileclarcd  that 

thc-.r  grxLi.  I  what  was  done  ayniii  by  one  {»opc  or  coun<  il  rni^ht 

It  is  superfluous  to  trace  thi-i  custom  in  every  j  l)c  corrected  by  another;  and  f.;rei;«»r\   XI.,  1370, 

country  where  it  exists.     It  i<  practiseil  in  every  j  in  his   will   deprc<  .it«,   a  quid  in   tttth-h.-it  .A"./* 

knrjvn   country,    in    respect    to    vnercigns  and  ;  ^rrai«/.      The    uni\er«ttv    <if    Vicnivi    prnte^tcfl 

vupeiion,   even    amonj^t  the    negroes,    and   the    a{{ain<«t  it,  callin^^  it  <i  contempt  oi   (iinl,  md  .m 

innahitants  of  the  New  World.    Cortez   found  it  '  idolatry,  if  any   one   in    luatters   of  i.tith  should 

cftablishcd  at  Mexico,  where  more  than  a  thousand  I  appeal  from  a  rnM/iii/  to  the  I'ofe  :  th  it   !->,  from 

lords   saluted   him,   %n   touching  the  earth   with  Kf'mi  who   presides  in   ciurnilt,  to  r/i.i/;.     Bui  the 

their  hjtnds,  which  they  afterwards  carried  to  their  1  i/t/a///^i///>  w^ls  at  length  cttablished  by  I.eo  X., 

mouths.  especially  after  I.utherS  opjKisitioii,  iK-tau'K' thc-> 

Thus  whether  the  custom  of  salutation  i^  prac-  '  despaired  of  defendiiii;  their  induli^ences  bulN,  \:c. 

ttsed  by  k)«mg  the  liands  of  others  from  re«ipec t,    by  any  other  meth<Kl. 

or  :n  bringing  one's  own  to  the  mouth,  it  is  of  all  Imj^ination  cannot  form  a  scene  more  terrific 
other  customs  the  most  universal.  Mr.  Morin  1  than  when  these  men  were  in  the  height  of  power, 
concludes,  that  tills  practice  b  now  )>ecome  too  |  and  to  serve  their  political  pur^Ki'^.-s  hurled  the 
B:ro«  a  familiaritv,  and  it  is  considered  as  a  mean-  .  thunders  of  their  exc»mmunicatii>ns  over  a  kint;* 
cess  to  kiss  the  fiand  of  those  with  w*hom  we  are  '  dom.    It  w.is  a  national  distress  not  inferior  to  a 


in  habit«  of  intercourse  :  and  he  prettily  observes 
that  thi*  cu-ttom  would  fje  entirely  hist,  if  Imert 
«cre  ur-t  solicitous  ro  preserve  it  in  all  its  full 
power. 

POPES. 


plauue  or  famine. 

Pnilip  Au\;u'>tus,  desiroui  of  rlivon  inn  Inijelburn, 

to  unite  himself  to  Ai^ncs  do  .Mcr.iuur,  tfjc  l'r>pe 

put  his  kingdom  under  an  interdu  t.   'I  tie  rliun  lies 

were  shut  during  the  ^pace  of  ei(;ht  Illonlh^  ;  thev 

said  neither  ni.ft.s  nor  vesp«r» ;  lhe>  <lid  not  Mi;irr>  ; 

and  even  the  otlsprin^  of    the  m.irru-d,  born   a\. 

this   unhappy   period,  t/'c^   ifiiidtrid   as   uluif  : 

V4LOi«  ol)ser\'es  that  the    Popes  scmpuJously    and  becauv:  the  kin^  wi>uld  not  sUip  with  his 

followed,  in   the  early  ages  of  the   church,  the  j  wife,  it  was  not  permitted  to  any  of  his  suliicits  t<» 

cu-?Tom  fif  placing  their  names  after  that  of  the  1  sleep    with    theirs '      In    th.it    year    Fr;ini  c    w.ih 

person    whom   they    addressed    in    their    letters.  .  threatened   with   an   extinction   of   the   oidiiCiry 

This  mark  of  their  humility  he  proves  by  letters    Reneratifin.     A  man  under   this  <  iirse   <if  publn 

written  by  various  Popes.    Thus  when  the  great  'penance  was  divested  of   all  his  iun«tnns,  nvil, 

pTcjects  of  politics  were  yet  unknown  to  them,  |  military,  ami  matrimonial ;  he  was  not  allowed  to 

did   they  adhere  to  ChrLstian   meekness.    There  j  dress  his  hair,  to  shave,  to  bathe,  nor  e\en  change 

came  at  length  the  day  when  one  of  the  Popes,  ■  his  linen  ;  »i  that,s;iys  Saint  Foix,  u)>on  the  whole 

who^  name  does  not  occur  to  me,  said  that  "  it    this   made   a   tilthv    jK^mtent.      The    ^ood    Kinii 

wa*  safer    to   quarrel  with   a   prince  than   with    Robert  incurred  the  censures  of  the  church  for 

a   friar."     Henry  VI.  being   at   the   feet  of  Pope  I  having  married  his  cousin.     He  was  iminedi  itel\ 

Ccle»tine,  bis  holiness  thought  proper  to  kick  the  !  abandcmed.      Two    faithful   doineMus  alone   re* 

crown  otY  bis  head ;  which  ludicrous  and  disgrace-  |  maincd  with  him,  and  these  alw.us  passed  ti)roui;h 

fnl   action   Baronius  has  highly  praised.      Jortin  |  the   hre   whatever   he   toiuhed.     In  a  word,  the 

observes  on  this  great  cardinal,  and  ailvocate  of    horror    which    an   excommunication   occasioned 

the  Roman  see,  that  he  breathes  nothing  but  fire    was  such    that    a    lourtesan,   with    wht^m    one 

and  brimstone  ;  and  accounts  kings  and  emperors    Peletier  had  p.tssed  v>me  moments,  h.ivuu;  le.irnt 

to  be  mere  catch-poles  and  constables,  bound  to  '  soon  afterwards  that  he  had  iK'en  alxive  six  in<uiths 

execute  with  implicit  faith  all  the  commands  of  '  an  excommunicated  person,  fell  into  a  panic,  and 

imolent    ecclesiastics.      Bellarmin    was    made    a  '  with  great  ditlit  ulty  recovered  from  her  convul- 

cardinal  far  his  efforts  and  devotion  to  the  papal    sions. 

caase,  and  maintaining  this  monstrous  paradox, — 

that  if  the  pope  forbid  the  exercise  of  virtue,  and 

command  that  of  vice,  the  Roman  church,  under 

pain  of  a  «n,  was  c^liged  to  abandon  virtue  for       To  literary  composition  we  may  appl>  thesiyint; 

tice,  if  it  woiild  not  sin  agunst  conscience  .'  of  an  ancient  philr)s<)pher  :— "  A  little  thing  gives 

It  wui  Nicholas  I.,  a  bold  and  enterprudng  Pope,  1  perfection,   althouk;h    jKrrfection    is    not    a    little 

who,  in  858,  for]p;tting  the  pious  modesty  of  his  1  thing." 


LITERARY  COMPOSITION. 


LITERARY  COMPOSITION. 


The  great  legiiljior  etf  ihe  Hebrewi  ordcn  id  to 
luU  off  the  fniii  for  the  fiw  three  yejn»  and  not 

^nonnl  how  IE  weakens  avDUDg  tree  to  bring  to 

miiiohi.  out  green  etun  ought  to  be  plckeil 


"h'u  ttrong  ii|!>ire  lulBcient 
Klei],  (or  poitcnly  onJy  v 


sucee^fuL  work»  UHdIly  pivd^utcd  tbc  pu 
linn  of  another,  relying  on  itl  crvileikeB  ueing 
pmcdoier  on  ihcpuUic  curio-iily  exdled  bv  in 
beitei  bnnhn.     He  tailed  thin  getllng  diiuhle 


Milherbc,  Ihe  faiher  of  Fnnch   poetiy.  toi- 

wu  em^Dved  raibn  in  pirfctting  than  in  (orming 

tbc  plDA  or  iklivery.    He  faulted  in  hii  tardi- 
ne»,  and,  afbr  hnilhmg  a  poem  of  one  huFMhed 

WTiler  in  Piench  prwe  who  »ve  nujestv  and 
haimony  to  a  penixL,  it  a  said,  did  not  grud^  lo 

with  \m  Am  tbongbti,      Uur  "ttwive'*  Grav 
enlertiined  the  nme  nation ;  and  it  ii  bard  tb 


the  yer^n,  zvtn  in  iti  bapf^est  pasugct.    Tbcre 


nothing 


they  eihaiui  all  their  forte :  they  H)-  but  with  on 

does  1WI  return  ;  there  is  in  their  imiginarlan  _       ....     ,  .    ..... 

errlaln  calm  which  hindm  their  pen  from  making  IhEirehcrice  ol  pmagcsi  they  gvncrally  liked  bei 
inv  progFevs.  Their  mind  b  like  a  boal^  wbicn  |  that  which  had  been  iit^  composed.  Hume  wa 
onlr  aJvanee*  by  the  nicngtb  of  oan."  nei-cr  done  with  com-cliona ;  evcrv  edition  varies 

Dr.  Note,  the  Platanist.  Iiad  such  in  eiubennce  I  with  the  preceding  ones.  But  t'here  are  more 
of  faney,  that  eurrtttivK  was  a  much  neaier  laiwur  fiirtuiule  and  fluent  minds  (han  these.  Voltaire 
than  nmptiititB^  He  uvd  lo  sav,  thai  In  writing  !  tells  ns  of  Fen^ion"*  Tdemachns.  that  the  amiable 
hi^  workv  he  w»  forced  to  cut  bis  way  Ibmu^  a  r  anlbor  composed  it  in  his  retirement  in  the  short 
crowd  of  thou^ts  as  ibmugh  a  wood,  and  thai  he  r  period  of  Ihree  monEh^-  Feni'lon  bad,  before  this, 
threw  otf  In  his  compovitions  as  much  as  would  '  fornMd  hisstOe,  and  bis  mind  ot^rHoiA'cd  wiTh  alt 
make  an  ordinary  pbilowpher-  More  was  a  great  ,  the  spirit  of  the  ancients.  He  opened  a  copious 
cnltainlasi,  and,  of  cnnrse,  an  enlist,  nc  """"  --..-.-».^-  _.._..-_.,.. 


he  applied  h 

th   iocredibi 

2.SIVS 

c  pains 

rctioos.    Tsocrales,  It 


Armstrong,  and   others,   lelt   tortures  on   si  . 

objects.    It  is  slid  of  Julius  Scali^^,  that  be  hid   ijorus  Sicniua,  Ibiri)'. 

this  peculiarity  in  bis  manner  of  mmpoiitiDD  i  he  i      Tbere   is   4   muldle  between  T£)ocily  ai 


LITERARY  COMPOSITION. 


pidlcr ;  the  ItAUiiu  uy,  il  \%  not  ncrcw^'  lo  be  j 

Tf.nT  iagcDiow  expciienB  irr  n<ii  lo  ht  con 
tcmacd  in  jiMruy  labonn.    Tth.'  ir'riiial  a^lvin^. 


H  Toy  uiehil  Co  jcmng  wrilcn.  The  lim 
pBlun  luTG  «hn^  BActioiuIely  iltKhnl  diun 
■dvA  to  mne  particoliT  aurhor  of  congtniil  <li 


bnuTite  uittwn  «ne  Hie  brilliant  .__.._..  ..._ 
benk  I>r,  ud  the  loiftjr  Luno :  the  tBlliienie  oT 
tfaeh  chinctcn  dut  k  trued  in  bit  beil  it>' 
gedicip  "Hie  ffttx  Climidmk,  wheo  rmpkwal  in 
witting  bli  hWoiy,  lud  over  ntr  tanrtullv  "fx-itm 
iDd  LiTj,  to  si**  <h8Dily  to  lii!*  *tyLr,  u  he  wrilei 

pwiraiti,  thou^  Clamidon  never  cqiuUL-d  Liry 

IlK  moidc  oE  iiteriry  compoeition  vlopted  by 

hia  nlqceli,  be  ihnyi  iddeil  the  mtM  of  (he 
compoBtJoo ;  lod  thut  bolJIy  wmlteil  with  the 
gnt  lutbon  of  inliquity.  On  bnird  the  frtnte 
vbich  tm rarrying  him  to  Todii,  he  projectenthe 
faUowing  mtti,  mi  niOtA  ihem  in  Ibii  ininoer : 


te  HiMDry  of  the  Amcncia  War. 


J.  Dialoguo,  PhiloKiphifaL  ind  Hi^nrW^ti^ 


iKmtine,  hl>  City  of 
uv«i  VI  Hippocntte^,  C*mj  Pr^wtnmtn  of 
CWoOt  tk  fUuiUi  vf  Arfaiiitle,  Ot  Jtdnul^un  of 
Cniillu,rsnu<rrn»»i.-  uf  v[i>dli  the  fiiUi  honk 

Bvdyn,  who  hM  UTillcn  trmtnei  on  wren] 
fab)ecti.  nu  eccDpteil  far  ymn  on  ihcm.  Hb 
BunneT  of  fltrmginji  hii  mufiTiaU  naA  hn  made  of 

■uhiecl.  be  IniJ)  led  it  into  In  ririmn  pvU,  under 

Under  (hoe  heidi  he  tct  ilown  hi*  own  Ibooghli 

■ere  Ihui  formed,  be  digeiliri  bii  nwo  Ihon^hti 
rcKoliFly,  And  irrcnirrhrnni  iliL-in  by  iikibontiv* 

thit  judgment  which  the  tormcrs  M  tuch  collec- 

kocw  Ihu  "  Half  i>  better  Iban  the  whole,"  and 
k  wia  bii  aim  to  expfta*  the  4|uinEencncB  of  bii 
reading  but  not  to^ve  it  in  a  crude  Mate  lo  the 


prvTV,  they  were  not  bjuf  Ibe  sire  or  1: 
Tbiu  daa  WinKelmin,  in  hi>  "  Hi 

plan ;  like  ai 


DoccptiDna,  be  thrvw  on  paper  idlei^ 


qoMlely  deacribed  the  pmjerc**  at 


described  ai  t^  BuADn,    Kpcakinfi  ot  the  bonri  of 
comporilion  he  nld,  "  Ttieie  ore  the  movl  hucu- 


The  publkatlon  of  Oibhon'a  Memoirs  conveyed 

ibduitry  ±  IE  Ea  In  ymth,  the  Cnundatiou  of  mch  a 
>ubUme  edifice  »  bl>  biUoly  mnU  be  laid.  The 
wotid  can  now  trace  how  iniv  CoIoimi«  o(  erudi> 
tion.  day  by  day,  and  year  by  year,  prepaied  htm- 

re«Ung  1  We  miithl,  uvi  bu.  nm  to  attend  lo  the 
•rjrr  tf  aor  1^1,  (•  rnui*  al  rf  tuT  llatirhli. 
"The  pcTU4l  of  a  paitlciilv  vork  lei^e^  birth 
perhap«  to  idvai  iinconneeted  «lth  Ihr  •iihgecl  it 
trcal*  i  t  piiTMie  tlicw:  ideaa,  and  ipiit  my  prcipo^ 
plan  of  reatfing."    'Iliut  In  the  mid*l  ot  Homer  he 

nri^ otrllny j  and hjrine  Ani^cd  Lnnj^nui, be 
(•illnwed  tbe  Iniii  nl  hh  Idesi  of  the  mlillnK  and 
heaiatifitl  In  the  Inr|iiiry  rrf  Bnrke,  and  conduded 
■he  aiKlCBi  with  tbe  mndem 


eulnr  luhji-ct. 
new  bnokvn 
that  I  knew,  c 

ainhuti^dedl 
TIh""'" 


III  an  author  enjcanrd  tm  a  panl- 
I  mr^ienderi  my  pcm^^il  of  jmy 


0  my  oriffln^  «tock/' 
.  ..liuNe  hin»  ID  iiudenti,  atid  nich 
ptacrlacd  by  others.    Ancilton  wai  a 
oni  ntndentj  he  vldom  rcail  a  bnoh 

hK  lihnry-ubk  waa  alwiyt  covered  whh 
1  number  of  bnoki  lor  the  moai  part  rp.:n  i  thit 

LaMed  to  thnw  light  on  the  umc  topic :  br  wal 
Kit  diigiMol  bv  IreiliKnlly  Kcinr  the  lame  thing 
n  dilKnent  wtiten  i  thcli  npiuhnn  were  ■»>  nuny 
■ew  itrokn,  which  romptned  the  <dra<  *lih  h  he 
udionceived.    Thceekbralerifatiinranluudled 


)io  POETICAL  IMITATIOSS  AND  SIMILARITIES. 

would  adrukcc.  iiU  be  tud  (iisl,  docc  (or  tllf  (be  For  T^iding  virt  CBlmcft  leinm 

placs,  btnt,  Kdd  vpiiuoci* — 1  modcDttiiuly  which  atinm  m  ibcnrdrrliv  pt^nrioL 

ippon  rciy  diJiion,  but  inlhccnd  •ilJ  Bute  >  tai  Pin  Cilmcfi  KMiKy.  in  iti 

%rai  jwing  of  tjmc,  ind  iihour  of  mind  i  ll™       (i»»^o() 

Iiva  i(  A  los  to  tcttLc  tlwir  opiniou  and  tlHir  ForJoAcphuh    --.,..- 

belief,  fiom  the  wut  of  having  onrc  bnjugbl  Far  Bwuge^  HbIot^' nfihe  Jnn 


111  ipcc^^-ing  the  ■! 


#  jtUrmn]  al  the  vut  lab>-liAdl    hutoricaL 

ii(lct  du  f  mnny,  one  of  Ihe  gTciteH  rcAdns 
ir«l  IhAi  he  co'uld  not  rent,  with  utiiOcuaOt 

n  folio.'  Alf  ibii. 


But  In  cheer  (be  bbtoriognpher,  he  ihowi, 
tbat  ■  pvblic  Libnr7  if  only  ncccvaiy  10  be  [Oq> 

poMterity.    Kb  calculiMon  proceeda  on  tbb  pliiii- 

Hc  cilculala  thd  atannjng  extent  of  biilorlcal 

For  a  knawkdgc  of  fticred  Hiitorr 

Ancient  Bgt-pt.  BibTloD.  uul  AinyrU, 
moiiem  A«rTia  or  Pen"  ,    ,    ,    ,    1  -      „ 

Itooun  KiKC.-y  by  the  Dfiginal  wrilen    fi       „ 
EcclcnuiicaJ    HifloTVp  geoerAl    ud 

And  repemult     .......  4S       „ 

tory  bu  obtiioei  to  univcniJ  knowkd^  ind 
ihu  on  I  plAD  which  penniB  u  much  leuuK  a> 
evcTV  Hudent  would  cnove  to  indulge- 
AiiiiKcimcn  oi  Du  FRBuy^alcuutku,  take 


pnjp«e  I  ficical  knowledge  of . 

""  "^       In  nuling  ttita  ikelcl! 

•>""'"  iBjon  of  .  Ci 


plan  If  «e  n-oa 


for  geniu  AntETUttoa  Hch  indoftry.  TUiidiEinc 
of  Kudv,  rfaadgti  It  tnay  nrrvr  be  ligkdlir  ttor- 
nic*t,  wUI  be  (omul  exceUcnt.    Ten  jmf  Wms 


I  lopla,  u  itaAi  of  ih 


A  who  led  todu 


DaiDU. 
in  decidLng  on  whit  may  onK  be  w  Ulidcnlal 


picable  --  tbera  arc  te«  men  of  Idtcn  who  hate 
ugFl.  or  meiog  imilalion,  in  the  [bouaind  Ibapn 

pTtaiaon,  borrowed  with  art,  or  beij{hle:>ed  by 
embcUii^meDL     llie  iniccnkoui  writer  ol   "  A 

uitiiog  to  nee  imitation.   Tu  dttcci  the  adopted 


FOETKAL  miTATIOas  AND  SIMILARITISS. 


.-^_.R  hoth  pans  ink  dJIigmcr;   but  i' 
brinRWIIh  \t  no  ordinAry  gnfificjitkin.    A 

JmiMtion  LD  nxtT)'/  wrinca  by  ■  maa  c 
■piciuiy*  and  an  idept  in  the  in  of  dUci 

properly  lelecied,  mnd  ^rwUtiont  duly  m 
~'--'1  make  an  impinial  accewan  Id  Ihc 


L  hii  "  Comfnentary  "  haa  a  cvplout 
Imlnble  ImptonoKDl  ol  rhe  Om'k 


pocf  pn>bahly  would  nevar  hat^  replied 


r  in  hb  "  Ode  to  Adreiticy  "  baa, 

"  Liibi  Tii»Y  siiniui,  and  wlOi  ibtcn  go. 

lit  lUHHU  ™»KD." 


■The  a 

done 

■SST 

ir<»<.thatlnchyH«HTiD 

■UHirebo 
inugCRuy 

ShmT^ 

TTo'i^ 

S^ 

""/■■-.«; 

«ldtw 

■willDW  folia* 

j£':r 

cfMheim 

Again  i 

theiame. 

coutb-d." 

nter  ihowen 

.'»5?S 


Gray  himKlfreren  toViivl  and  [ 

"  Bej^uid  the  yeai,  and  out  of  beaven^s  higb< 

which  be  cilli  extremely  bold  and  poetii 


iDugb  copied  from  Dryden, 


apeare.  of  the  latter  image  i  but  It  ■<  curious  (o 

makea  Priuli  mou  pilbetlcally  eicliim    to   hl> 

daughter,  that  •he  ■> 

"  Deal  ai  the  vital  wittnth  that  feeds  my  life. 


}Mnuc  thu  "ttM  «wl«r   itarf  9!  Hadibraa 


iia                    POETKAL  IMITATIOSS  ASD  snOLASmBS. 

mighi  hive  given  birth  to  the  "  fl«ril  "■  of  Unr. 

tbeTOiUected  idei.    The  oM  Reve.  in  bto  rn 

logne,  uy.  of  hin«elf.  ud  of  (rid  men. 

"  For  whin  we  miy  not  don  thlD  wol  be  ^ekn 

loquc  1     A  very  l-ulgjr,  but  iciiW  J^iiu.  Thomu 
Piine,  whom  we  mif  luppoK  dolilule  of  ill  de- 

Yet  in  our  IIKIN  crOd  ii  flu  yieken." 

Tv.wniT-.  Cn«i.«..  vol.  1,  p.  UJ,  ..  jm. 
Ony  b«  ,  very  ejprenive  ewrf.  highly  poeticil 

bjr  ordiimr  ud  uneullivued  mimb,  •nil  even 
br  KDle  nid  judicious  onc^  who  ne  dotllute  of 

nd  Dinlel  hu,  u  quoted  in  Cooper^  Nb^ 

lifugiuHon.    He  telU  m  dut  "the  ntUm.  »d 

"  And  in  himutfmIS  Htmi  iea  (ompUta 

i>  difficult  to  (liH  then  •epanlelr.     Ok  Hep 
ibove  Ihe  nUime  mika  the  ridieuioui,  ind  oue 

The  mlieiy  of  DARK  raMmvi.-H.." 

Aline  of  Popel  in  hi>  Dunciid.  "Hirii-ben 

Howud,"  echoed  in  the  eu  of  Gt»y,  ^a  k 

min."    ll»7 1  veolote  to  illurtir.li  Ibii  opmiaa  > 
lo  dcKiibc  the  tublime  nvolnlion  at  the  farlih 

" High-bom  Hoel-i  Hup- 

on  her  ule,  round  the  iua,  by  compving  it  wilb 
the  «lion  of  a  Uf  flowed  by  .  boy  J    And  y« 
Kmeulthe  mat  eiquiiilc  liuei  in  MillDO  do  thi>  ; 

lobnwB   bitterly  tcniura  any   for  giriaf  (* 
u  the  ctlnirid  piling  the  d^iikd  binkibotte 

S;ETe''d"^C:^l:^«"^'"'""'""*-  ^' 

■olemnly  iddi,  I  w«  »nTto  ice  in  Ibe  Ifac  tf 

With  i-Hfrmh:  pa«  th.t  .Jti™i»*  .l«f. 

Englidi  poetry,  he  would  no-er  hive  hma^ 

On  heti^tMb,  ■vhUcihe^niniM-'- 

t.^1..  TeSlici-m.     #«.«d   i,  employed  t/ 
Hilton  in  more  pl>cei  Ihu.  one,  but  b«  b  J' 

ficient  (or  my  purpow  i 

nived  the  Idu  of  die  beitd  of  hi)  BaU,  he  hid  in 

"  Hide  me  from  d»yi  giri)h  ere 

hi)  miad  Ihe  linfuw  of  MilUn.  who  docnbei 

While  the  bee  with  Somid  ihigb-- 

Peo.m«,  >.  m. 

"The  imperiil  eoiiEn,  which  full  high  idvinced. 

The  celebnied  lUnii  in    Gny^   Elegy  MOB 

Sly~  nt.  t  mtu^  ar.tniig  l,  Ih,  ■a.m." 

wty  nmiUr  to  Graj-^ 

■'  «r,™d  iitr  a  «/(«r  »  ,h.  ImuNid  sir  .'" 

PnU  miny  .J(™«-  i,  bom  lo  bluA  .u^ 

Guy  h»  been  leretelj  cemured  bv  Johiaon,  for 

the  eiprcBioD, 

Pope  hid  Hid; 

"There  kept  by  cbirmi  conceil'd  fnm  mcrtd 

ore  mux  Ulll  hear  thit  the  poet  Au  no  lini  a  bad. 
"tmfU  ntm"   ii   feeble,  but  would  hive 

Like  iwi  thU  in  dcirrii  Nun  ind  tfn.- 

Kipe  of  the  Lndu 

ToungHyiofDituti! 

"  In  diitint  wiKb  by  faumin  e;-c  unim 
She  rein  her  Jlrwm  and  spreidi  her  veAttf 

J^T^J^ho  h2'.^[|^?n';ii'n,'i"  *' 

poeticil.Dnct  it  conveyt  1  luteriil  image  tn  the 

Pure  gnrglinE  tilb  The  londy  drml  ttnce,  __ 

Ibe  KUKC  frnm  wheni.'e,  prolubly,  the  euAab  litir 
vu  derived.    I  >in  inclined  lo  tb^nk  it  »b  from 

AndShenitonehu- 

"  And  like  the  dcmrc  %  bloom  to  fide  r 

"  Let  rnmiM  empty  her  whole  quiver  on  me. 

ElegfiT. 

Cny  wu  «  lOnd  of  Ibii  ploung  imueiy,  th« 

Gny  In  hli  Elegy  hB. 

™o''^^"r^^"i.!"«lL'?fhi"edi,iTli; 

m  S  ft™JSL'^-*4'?^  tevivt. 

viin  ittemnit  To  derive  it  from  i  Thouehl  of  Pc- 
ttuth,  tni  Sill  more  Tiinly  illempn  lo  imeod 

P«.'L«t,l.  ll.v.«fc 

it;   Wikelield  cipcnd)  id  dcuvo  pige  To  pin- 
Bhrue  thii  tingle   verK  1     From  the   following 

C>n  Itaeit  be  1  doubt  thai  be  bomwed  Ok 

beiuliful  /irnuta  ftmn  in  obKure  poet.  qooMl 

Unes  of  Cluucer,  one  would  im^ne  Cny  cuigfat 

by   Pnole,  in   hii   'Bngliih   Puumm,"   iMiI 

POETICAL  IMITATIONS  AND  SIMILARITIES. 


ImID  the  coDjcciun ;  ihc  lint  edilion  being  Oil 
f  lUg.    Thi;  nonwly  Una  in  Poote  »it  ihne, 
"To  Thetin"  witcry 


□  Kpe  compowd  tbc  roUowiDg  li 


c,  bcalth,  ind  life,  for  tbli  they  muft  teiigii 
Hure  the  !««■(,  bill  bow  r«l  thecal  ■)" 
IVmpIc  Df  Fame. 


The  ume  thmi^t  may  be  faand  in  Sir  George 
Miekentie'A  "  Kab^  on  ftelening  Solimde  Id 
PubUf  Employmeni/'  tim  pbbudbed  la  1664 : 
Hudlbfu  prctcdcd  it  by  two  yem.  TbethouiAl 
la  strongly  e>pre«ed  by  the  doqueal  HAckncle. 

g^u ;  vii  (o  depy  oundres  lU  pRKnt  tttbfu- 
tion»  or  to  (ip«e  oanetvg  to  H  much  hiurd  for 


png  lu  luc  CM  ui  rope,  wpci 
'  aod  felicity  be  ■dopErd  il,  in 


hcFiLdi  md  Bweel  hvbingen  that  tnorc 
iTobable  Ihil  Pope  hid  naieil  Ihii  tbouitht. 


There  U  another  punge  in  "  HoweJL'i 
«ho.  In'*  the  flipeof  tlie  Uick,"  ay\. 


Pope*!  ileicTlpllon  of  the  death  of  the  It 


'  The  Jjinft,  Iby  riol  iaoaa  to  b\rei  lo-day. 
Had  he  thy  Tczuon,  would  heiAip  and  play> 
PleiLKd  to  the  Ljst  he  cropa  the  flower)'  bwd, 
And  lieka  the  hind   juil  niaed  to  fbed 


tldered  not  a  coaiemptlble ; 

And  when  nhe  leei  Ihe  butchers  knife  decreed, 
Dl  KlHD*a  "  MuUy  of  Bfaumawn." 

"IliU  nilurat  and  affecting  Image  inieht  cer- 
tainly have  been  obterred  Vf  ^pe,  withnul  hii 
baring  perceived  it  through  the  les  policed  leu 


1  coniidetiK  foilDWing  Una  aa  ilriclly  to 

-^"  The  duing  artiit 
Explored  the  pang*  that  rend  the  royal  hreait, 

Sir  Eldlip  Sidney,  in  his  "  Defence  of  Poeilc," 


POETICAL  tUITATTOSa  ASD  SIMILABITIBS, 


lime  ipproprUtioi]  of  thougbl  will  Htuch 
e  the  dunn'd  reader  with  thj  thaufht 


BvidcnUy  from  Ihi  Prcnrh 

"niut   Parii.   pour    Clan 

K«.irigi,.."— loiLui 

Oldhiin,  the  utirut.  u 


*  With  the  ?rie«'>  'ntineni  hid  hi  hul  pal  m 
nr  PrrlaU-i  cnirlly.—rkr  Crrum  tiad  («u  r- 
The  IliJlowing  puuga  Kem  echm  Id  ruh 

Bulkf  who  on  Ihink  vithout  iuil  ngi, 

«mi  evidentl)'  borrowed  bj-  pope,  when  he 
■pplkes  the  thou^l  to  Cfismiu  j-* 

The  (Arj' i/' |A<  pri'Hf kiti  lod  Ibe  jAohi.'" 
g  temembntd  the  anmhoii  wtaen  he  uid, 


til  poem  WB  read  ind  admiTwl  hy  Qoldsmi' 
tr  iDlUnuing  beautiful  imtRe  lecmt  to  indlei 


Thence  wevy  vbion  (unut  where  IriU^  J^t 

Gny,  in  rcpeatiiid  ihu  imi^ry,  bu  bonowe 
rcnijukat>je  epithet  m>m  Milloo  ■- 

'*  Lo,  where  the  my^baiptH'd  htuii 

Ode  to  Spnnf 
"  Alone  the  cFiiped  ihadei  ind  hcpwen 

with  Danger,  there  gnmlly  perwniried,  w*v  1 
u-hich  hii  right  huJ  unnmed  (aiK^M 


ildimitb  ■pplie) the Ihou^l TCTy  happily.'— 
lo  not  know  whether  wr  mighl  not  m 


•c  copied  >  puuge  fr 


Amid  Ihe  chonb  bewildered  Wd, 
£'<n  il  ltJi«.!u  /.rniulfkud  ZJr'." 


imingglDTyDli^ 


POETIC Al.  mtTATIOSS  AKD  SIMILARITIES. 


EHwObtDf  the  pLfttoalc  John 
bit  pal  Dtiginalitj-  o(  lb 

"  80  to  tbc  nntfaiDhUig  bo 


ihongh  the  imige  1 


be  Jong-wlih'iJ'ror  jUiicc, 


al  when  with  u 
m  vTivexl  Al  ttw  J — 
Qilghtlheudilefc 

The  liiAde],  by  John  Norm. 
•r  rDodem  tmgedv  pf  "The  Cailtc  Spec- 
tbi*  fine  dncripiian  o'  the  ghotf  or  ETe- 
fluiidcnly  A  fcmtk   farm  ghded   ■long 


.    My»i 


'^^Z 


Jiti^nt  pmul  mybiuHl,  ami  mj  fife  wu  covered 

There  [1  undoiihledly  ■lagulu  mEcil  in  thii 
dcxrIiiHoo.  I  Anil  conttut  [t  with  one  which 
the  Pivnch  virpl  hu  written  Id  «a  tge,  whofc 
fiitb  wis  itRHigeT  In  Kboiti  thu  Don,  yet  which 
peibapt  hid  lea  ikillTii  dacriUng  them.    There 

rhe  aolbor  of  "  The  Cj«le  Spectre  "  lifted 
jrchit  the  altar  of  the  Ptinth  mnic.    Athalli 

■■C'cT{ril  pendant  rHoTreurd'nnepiofondenuit, 


Hiciael  AtluUe,  Act  li 
_  jhhmilh,  when.  In  hk  pefleitriai)  1 
vX  junid  the  Alpa,  at  he  paloTi  himiel 
"TnieUer."   and  fcU   binui^tf  the  ullu 

luunding  icenery,  probably  at  that  mon 
plied  to  blirueif  the  foliowtng  beautifu] 

"  Ai  In  the  hallow  birail  of  Apenn^ne 
pmeaih  the  centre  of  encircling  hiUs, 

And  brcalhei  iti  biUmy  frtgrance  o'er  tl 
Goldimilb  very  patbebcally  ipplica  i 


iG  steep,  and  light  it  every  blait.' 


irnngh  the  watbling  ali 
>o<ffd  nature'i  bana." . 
:niiAable  thai  the  Bme  Inuge,  which 


In  Ihtt  lubUmc  paciage  In  Popc'i  "  Eauy 
an,"  Epiil.  I.  V.  137,  beginning, 
ViM  chain  of  Eeing  I  which  Irora  God  begin, 
and  pn)ce<di  ID 


en  obKTved  by  Thyer,  thai  MilMn 


4  fim^nipid   it  an   expienlon   m-c6   by  the 

ana  ta  dcnErfe  the  approacb  ai  the  ei^cniag. 

irdo.  ArioilD,  inil  Tarn  hive  mule  1  tcrr 

piclureaque  uie  of  Ihli  term,  noticed  by  T*>'er. 

1  doubt  ilit  be  applicable  to  our  colder  climate  i 

""---  '^ommn  appean  lu  have  been  itruck  by  the 

fleet  It  producci  in  pDetlcai  l^ndacipc;  for 


opriitely  ipplied  than 


POETICAL  IMITATWilS  AND  SIMILASITIE3. 


iJIcctnl  Ibc  lingua^  of  the  poet, 

R  poctlcil  epithet).    I  ihiil  Dodce  the  cpllbel 

Tie  lulji-n  of  Ilily  utd  the  Biter  climuei 


iDFlcgvillv  Tendered  by 


-Km,  ud  unoothiher  vaty  t>Tcu(.'* 


hu'ins  before  bb  vyn  m  itiffrt/ni  ^rxjr.  found 
no  dilTicuJIy  in  Bfcreeing  ttith  Ibc  incicntl,  thai 
the  wjx-e*  LAUQHED,    Modfm  poetry  has  made 


pcnonllki  Ploni — 
"Where  Tweed'!  id 


lie  hu  emploied  thii  epilhel  Teiy  boldly  in  Ibc 
bUowing  ddlditful  Unei.  which  aie  ilmoit  ai' 


right."— W.man  md  Aiiite,  B.  ii. 

It  H  enlremely  difficult  lo  cooreiTe  what  tb 

UKienn  pmiwly  meant  by  the  word /i,r^™ 

They   tctm    to   baic  dengned  by  it  aoj-thiii 


inhUekmmUvia, 


n  of  the  Temple  of 
a*  "twiflg  covered 


Diyden  hu  omitted  the  ptirpli  llfhl  in  hli 
Tenion,  nor  a  it  given  by  Wit ;  bwt  Dr>'ilen  ei. 
pKBcs  the  gcntnl  idea  by 

Hid  fanned  hii  euiling  loctLi  ud  audi  Mil  Irmfltl 

And  gii  en  hii  rolling  eya  a  ifiLrilnif  graci." 

ofnhat  KU  meant  by  (tu  ^rf£  li{ti.  uben  ip- 


i[ieied,    Milton,  dcichlriag  the  evening,  mailu 
i,  out  by 


«'ork  at  noon.     I  think  therefbre  the  lini< 


Pial  power  to  kill,  aa  ih 


[ig  cteeps  upon  the  ground  away. 


LITERARY  FASHIONi^. 


u  Ur  Ha'l,  ind  with  lun.lc 
"  "P™     nd       b 


tb  It  a. 


«  pMW  ippcin  thui  in 


Ihr  printed  work.  1 
rhc  daiilfnglu-Jni  Hid  nodding  end. 


iTw  giiltdnna 
And  ptatnl  tb 


unbound 


Thiu  to  Ibe  inli  fnjtn'i  i  fithcT^  pn 
(}  thou,  whoK  KlniT  l>U>  lb'  ettannit 


lie  hoin  may  taail  blm,  with  diwvd  uc 
.  uy,  ihu  iliui  tnnKouU  bit  l>Ihn^  fnini 
ite  [^»i'd  amidif  IfiE  gnicTil  ibDalt  of  Tr 


Hr.  Kippii,  who  had  a  luK  tor  lllcnij  binary,  h 
-"  mcd  that  " ' Dod^ci'i  (Economy  of  Hnmi 
1 '  long  tvctivi'd  the  rant  eimvuguitoppiaui 
n  ibc  luniouiuia  &a.  Ii  wu  written  by 
— .ibntid  noblcmiD;  in  lD9I:mcB  of  ttie  pover  < 
Ultrmrj  ftit'mni  the  hularr  of  whii^b,  u  it  hii 
■ppeved  in  vVioia  igei  ana  coanlrici,  and  u 
^ifh  operated  with  rBi|ici.-t  to  tbe  dirlettnt object!  < 
rencCj  lcamli^ut,andtaiICj  wouJdfonn  awoi 
II  miEht  he  highly  iiutnjrctivc  >nd  entertuning 
liie  bvoutabfe  leecptinn  ol  Dixbic)'!  "<Xc 


n  to  thinli.    Other  o 


wrlun  aimed  to  rir>i  the  gieii  aDihon  of  u- 
llqulty,  the  dUlerenl  ityln,  in  their  ten  ile  Imita- 

wbo  fought  dnpcntely  fin  the  i^iitSey  cboK  M 


the  wonli  of  Cicem  inn  lAdr  hoUoi 


time  read,  wEthout  (heir  reodera  being  iwin 
qf  epics  which  prohahly  a 


or  after  K 

»D  n>  thr™,  the  rot  can^ 

s".r:u 

pctllioMW 

IB  Italy. 

sltitodeal 

hoska  were  wrltti-n   on    Love!   the 

bililnu  If 

writing  an 

Ulat  aulHCil  [far  ceilaioly 

al«)-.aiN 

•lion  with  the  iDderaiLinble 

e  like  pe- 

lUnK,  and 

not  wiiia 

n  vene,  dirtn<cd  Ihenivlva  in  ptoae. 

When  tbe 
»  given  in 

■se-^-'/s^ffiisii-s 

'•SIui™ 

reajlic  IHW)  when  one  yaw 

many  )-a«r 

n.    When   BiJup  HaU  hr> 

pubhahed 

u>  Htiles 

be  caUud  them  "Tootbliia  Silins,' 

Jtta''-'* 

rniny  good-niturrif  mm. 

'ho  «3i 

inij-   ^le 

nfthe  abundant/ ol  'ihJTM 

fM 

ould  bite 

more    ih-iply  ihan    thoK 

or  imile 

Alter  Spenitt^  "  Pierie  u 

publiihed. 

many  ml>- 

taken  imil. 

lions  in  whi.h  faiiiei  wen 

the  thief 

m  t^  ManUm,  in  bU  aatiro.  ai  quoted 

hyWatloe 

■lery  icribc  now  fall!  asleep 

an<{>Dlu. 

■' 

eami,  wnighl  lenne  pound 

on« 

TJIZSS 


the  "  Arcadia  "  of  sldnc)',  a 

luhknii  tuving  tnnMated 
ihe  maiCe  it  luGhiDahk  to  Ir 


DUUDd  two  hundred  itieetil 


THE  FANTOUrMICAL  CHARACTERS. 


heightened  br  tbc  will  Into  floiM  ronuncc)  but 

tlowcf  br  tbc  Duke  of  Bucklnghiin.  vhnc 
<nan  at  tlillcule  wu  (iTOuinl  by  Chiria  IL, 
wHd'nvcit  tbc  TogDC  il  obE^nd, 

Ur  WilliiKi  Temple  junly  obsciya,  Ihit  ehtneca 
In  rdn  oT  wit  arc  like  thoK  of  biblB,  or  otber 

more  not  of  fubion  HDumg  Ibc  new  counien  Hun 
the  old  liri  e(  NDTirkh,  vhg  vu  eitceoKd  the 
greUcM  «ll,  in  hii  fittan'i  time,  imong  the  old. 

ciUed  Emhkiiuble  UlentDre.  Tngedla  were  Bme 
yein  ud  as  f^ioiuhle  u  comcdie*  mn  at  this 
fUy;   'niomwhi    MjJiet,    Praac^s,  Hill,    tppJicd 

thtlvetl    Then  loo  we  bid  •  f»mil>-  of  pinpm 
In  the  pKkhorpi>«r)',lo"lmititlDniof 
Not  many  yeariBgo,  Cbtjrcbill  wjiihe  o 

Thete  jtgitin  were  ncceeded  by  narraii 

The  Cutle  of  ODuIn  wu  <he   fitbei 
mirvelloui,  «hich  oventocki  the  circ 

of  gnccleti  utii- — Tnvclt  ind  ironies  biive  long 

he^n  to  dread  the  urivii  of  certun  pcrioiu  fiom 
Ihe  Continrnl '. 

Dinennt  (Jmei,  then,  jre  regulated  by  differcnl 
Olta.    Wbll  maker ' ' "'- 

of  bhday  hiabut  llT 
by  ponntiT ;  and  r 
mioht,  pernipi,  adm 


dliSdiEig 

THE  PANTOMIMIC AL  CHARAfTTEIU. 
Il  eit  dca  gni  de  qw  I'eiprit  guiwU 

PtHir  mol  j'OK  poier  en  fail 

Qu'endc  ceriatiu  mouenil'cipritlFpluzprjl 

Ou  le  pm,  et  le  icrjeux. 

Ne  TilenI  paa  d'agitaUs  nnietiEa. 

Feopk  then  aie  who  aerer  amlle  j 


ish  not  ID  like  HajleqiuD. 

lid  be  but  talk.— ud  all  bii  kin  I 

n  flami  lod  old  ffii'ea'  tilct  are  worth  the 


I  a  Uteral  ver^on  the  paatage  may  nin  this  :- 
fkt,  good  pCDt|le,  God  be  with  you,  and  kee 


li  eloak,  and  burrying  to  the  market-place  la 

Tir:\r. 

.^mc  It  iu'fi^nd'Si' pSfnin'meal 

ndieve  Ihc  pleaanre 

Ihril  itnillF.  a  a  tcry  lutuial 

n  the  acton  and  A 

eatM^lalon. 

■nieBulhla.th. 

here  our  KaHequIn  and  all  hii 

rela.  family  are  « 

™X"ic"ijr'£SX"o5''."; 

were  all  ihe  aroleique  children 

Ullin  theatre.  aii<! 

of  wit.  and  whim. 

and  Miire.    why  i.  thit  biu- 

^[He^d  "^^t  ^llilt"   »  dR^V  °Out 

r,  indeed,  boa«  of  two  inven- 

«oamagicUn.an 

d  thii  producet  tbc  lurnriie  of 

»ddcs  change!  of 

■ccnely,  wh«e  splendour  and 

have  rarelj  been  equaUed: 

been  termed,  haao 

fttStt'S 

a  lauDdr>,  wilb  Ihe  laicnptton 

It,"  orcounaellora  al  the  bar 

changed  l?toluhw 

paaaagt  (hot :  "  I  wilb  you  well,  good  pcojic : 
drire  on  to  art  your  play,  for  In  my  verj-  chiiilhood 
I  loved  ihtvi,  and  have  been  a  great  admirer  of 

other  Iranlattm  hire  Burly  the  aamc  wordi. 
put  In  cniplo>'ing  (be  geiKric  Icnn  they  Idk  the 
■pedo,  that  il,  the  thing  itielfi  but  what  ii  lev 
UdenMe.  In  Ihc  flatnea  of  the  alylc.  Ihey  Idk  that 


THE  PANTOMIXICAL  CHARACTERS. 


nM  br<n>'  tbeir  Aptitude  in  tbat  vind  hamov 

gmum   »mrtimcs  cxpmsjng   wfaoJe   Kzilnic* 
Tlirr  cut  Icii  %  voiy,  mA  even  rii«  tbc  pjiHoi 

EniDFe  poBoae  w  keen  i  rcliah  foT  (be  frpr^jfi 


b-f  plur.    Thff  Bhriu  tqucak  of 


perfoTmiDcc  «a  yet  morr  luipriiing,  the  team 

A  cniiu  lor  comedy,  (hey  acted  u  well  u  if  thry 
hH  been  btDu^I  up  to  nothiuE  cbc,  putictilAriy 
the  ArlrqviHa,  who  fir  nirpuaM  iny  of  our  Bog' 

■m  BBUrrd  never  mr  ■  pljy  in  any  other  piKC/' 

Hcnfv  i(  It  that  no  ichoLiri  in  Europe,  but  the 
mat  ie»Tied  1(«Jitltt,  >mi(  hy  the  national  genliu, 

HvteqiliD,  to  unndi  the  genolo^  of  Puncbj  And 


miiy  Tramtnliiiu  genioi  miut  be  in 


nwfoua  fiblr,  and  its  pecoliu  ^ctio  of  amic 

iliiny  of  the  popnlar  putima  of  the  Konunt 

tf\e  will  amuK  (hemKlva,  Iboa^  tbeir  man* 

n-ed  moTT  f^thliil  tbu  in  pmeTTioK  popmlav 
irVL    Miny  of  the  gunei  of  our  children  wrre 

cthaiuUia  JIaly  fppcjit)  to  imitite  in  ber  car- 
Tiic  characlen  hive  been  truumitted  to  to. 


irt^     'Hicir  po*en  eiuhled  them  to  perfovm  * 

TailinR  foible  of  Vespasian,  when  he  inqoired  the 
oMtoF  *li  tbu  foixre*]  pomp,    "Ten  mlUtDni  al 

would  eive  him  but  a  hundred  tbovtand,  Ibey 


language  o(*en  drei 

.  tear,  hy  the  pathetic 

d  their  finger,  have.™ 

TBE  PANTOUrmCAL  CHARACTERS.      '                      I3t  | 

other  penonagct  of  not  greater  importance,  til  bit 

"<<.,  l^lm™In^bSBdi"gt1^m'.*«"p™- 

hlbltt^i  Iht   UK  of  hi)  TOTdr  by  Ihe  migiilraln. 
It  w»>  then  he  powerfuily  •fleeted  the  judience 

ton  having  appeared  to  an  inliouaiy')  vliionary 

lomime  of  Don  luin  t 

{oggle   eyeii  Ihe   hnmp  at  hia  back  ind  at  hu 
sreagt ;  in  •  word,  ail  the  character  whkb  » 

and  the  Virluol    Tlie  tragic  and  the  comic  maiki 

nrongly  marki  [he  Punch-race,  aa  dialinctly  u 

»rre    an.<.ng    .he  omunenl.   of    the  ■:puich™i 

lip  and  the  Bourbon  noae* 

The  genealogy  of  the  whole  family  i<  confirmed 

Romtn  people,  thai  when  two  of  Ihem  guairclled, 

Juriruo,  a  buffoon;   and  a  paaaage  in  Cicero,  dr 

Oriurt,  pjint)  Harlequin  and  hu  brother  ge«icu- 
laton  alter  the  life  :  the  perpetual  IremblillK  mo- 

tion ol  their  hmbl,  their   lodicroo.  and  Heaible 

genu™,  and  all  the  mimiciy  of  their  licea.  "  Quid 

fialhyUiu;      The  advice    tru  accepted,   and   the 

rnnsftil'i'  ItBtt  liiktUum  turn  S^nnio  nil  t    Qui 

The  pani-coloured  hero,  irtUi  ewiy  part  o(  hu 

rUiltir  ,p,„."     Lib.  U.  Sect.  Jl.     For  what  hu 

drcv,  hu  been  drawn  out  of  the  enal  wardmbe 

more  of  the  ludieroui  than  SaNHIO  1  who,  with 

hl>  mouth,  hi)  face,  Imiuung  every  motion,  with 

1)  docnbcd  with  hi>  ihaven  hud,  r^iti  cuillhu , 
hii  »on  face,  JuU^  ftctm  •MotH;  hli  Hat, 

man)'eolonn,J>tiiiii«ji(B>icii(»,t  Even  ftiJKcbKUa, 

Columbine,  and  the  Clown,  ai  we  aee  them  on  the 

Engllah  ttage.     The  dreamt  of  Ihe  learned  are 

<  L-Antiq.  Bip.V.  6}. 

Claike'i  Traveli,  vol,  IV.  p,  ,S9-    The  l2i^n  an- 

"  Du  TheltR  ItalkD,"  ilLuitnted  by  ie«nteen 

titguariea    never    entertained    any  doilbt  of   thia 

Ihe  ™teT  Quoted  above,  for  the  iatl.f«:tion  ol 

Di  SplniU. 

tnort  grave  inqnirm.    VarfuilnHil.Poet,  Lib.n. 

*  Tlii<  ilalne,  which  ii  imapned  to  have  thrown 

c>p  31.  1  t.    The  Mitni  blichened  their  facn. 

covered  in  ijif,.  anJ  b  engraved  in  Picoronj-a 

And  further,  the  patched  drev  wai  lued  by  the 

amuiing  work  on  Lt  Mmilun  utnUlu  t  Ufif^rc 

ancient  peaiana  of  Italy,  as  appean  by  a  panage 

imiihi  d'onlicM  ftomanl,  p,  48.    It  il  that  ol  a 

in  Ztimi^tU  Rmt.  Lib.I.  c.  grTnd  jfiven^le^- 

Hime  called  Mticui  by  the  Romany  Ihe  name 

modem  name  hai  occsaioned  ■  little  diffiertnce. 

wardl  applied  metaphorically  to'  thoK"weil-knDwn 

whether  it  be  derived  ftnm  Ibe  nelr  or  it)  )»i«a*. 

poemi    called    »him,    compoaed   of    ahreda    and 

The  learned  Ouadrio  would  draw  Ihe  name  PhIM- 

palchei    of    poetry,    coUeded  from   all  quarter.. 

Ooldoni  contidered  Harlequin  aa  a  poor  devil  and 

puUc  gaOmain  {I  luppoK  Ihli  to  be  Ihe  turkey, 
cock)  becau«  Punch'i  booked  noK  teaembVa  Itt 

dolt,  tvhoae  coal  ig  made  up  of  ragi  patched  to- 

gether j  hi<  hat  ihowi  mendicity;  and  Ihe  hare-a 

teat.     ButBaKtli,inthlitHr>ngehooklhe  "To- 

tail  intill  Ihe  dreia  ol  Ihe  petuntry  of  Bcigamo. 

of  Ihe  peculiar  aqncakiognaBlwunJ.    He  layi. 

Qnadrlo,  in  his  learned  I/oHa  a-.pii   /-mm,  ha* 

"  PuncAinUi,  or  Punch,  aa  you  well  know,  tpeiki 

hi.  noK7beeau£tbe  fellow  who  in  a  puppet-how 

bafBed  my  mat  painfnl  roureha,  ainldtt  the 

manage,  the  puppel  called  Punchinello,  or  Punch, 
a.  the  BngHih  C^  abbreviate  it.  qwaka  with  a  tin 
whiRle  in  hi.  mouth,  which  make,  blm  emit  thai 

comical  kind  of  voice.    Bat  the  Boglijh  word 
FaahbuUa  b  in  Italiin  /•uUimOa,  whkli  meani  a 

with  bi>  Aort  awonJ  called  *ir||,,  or  hit  rod  the 

pott  hiiruelf  from  on^end"^"  the"  earth  to  the 

^(inu.  or  winged  cap  i  tRat  C.lumtinf  li  tijtlu. 

Ihe  name  of  AildiHUa,  or  taen-chicken,  to  thai 

nimic  ehaiacler.  to  convey  the  idea  ol  a  man  that 

qieak.  with  •  K|ueaklng  voice  Ihrough  hi.  noK,  10 

CMrni   the  Chwn   ii  Mtmiu,  the  buAMn  of 

eipnat  a  timid  and  weak  fellow,  who  i>  alwjyi 

threahed   by  the  other  acton,  and  alwayj  boaati  of 

of  the  indent  maaka.    The  lulgect  of  an  ancient 

viclOiJ  after  they  are  gone."    rolondrt",  p.  J»4. 

322 


THE  PAKTOMiyriCAL  CHARACTERS, 


hut  voice,  and,  indeed,  with  All  his  body,  provokes 
laughter.* 

TlieK  are  thetwo  ancient  heroes  cT  Pantomime. 
The  other  characters  are  the  laughing  children  of 
mere  modem  humour.  Bach  of  these  chimerical 
personages,  like  so  many  County-Members,  come 
from  diiferent  provinces  in  the  gesticulating  land 
of  Pantomime ;  in  little  principuities  the  rival  in- 
habitants  present  a  contrast  in  manners  and  cha- 
racters which  opens  a  wider  Aeld  for  ridicule  and 
satire,  than  in  a  kingdom  where  an  uniformity  of 
government  will  produce  an  uniformity  of  man- 
ners. An  inventor  appeared  in  Ruezante,  an 
author  and  actor  who  flourished  about  1530.  Till 
his  time  they  had  serxilely  copied  the  duped 
fathers,  the  wild  sons,  and  the  tricking  valets,  of 
PLiutiis  and  Terence ;  ar/l,  perhaps,  not  being 
writers  of  suflicient  skill,  iiut  of  some  invention, 
were  satisfied  to  sketch  the  plots  of  dramas,  but 
boldly  trusted  to  extempore  acting  and  dialogue. 
Ruzzante  peopled  the  Italian  stage  with  a  fresh 
enlivening  crowd  of  pantomimic  characters ;  the 
insipid  dotards  of  the  ancient  comedv  were  trans- 
tormed  into  the  Venetian  Pantaloon  and  the 
Bologncse  Doctor ;  while  the  hare-brained  fellow, 
the  arch  knave,  and  the  booby,  were  furnished 
from  Milan,  Bergamo,  and  Calabria.  He  gave  his 
newly-created  beings  new  language  and  a  new 
dress.  From  Plautus  he  appears  to  nave  taken  the 
hint  of  introducing  all  the  Italian  dialects  into  one 
comedy,  by  making  each  character  use  his  own  ; 
and  even  the  modem  Greek,  which,  it  seems, 
afforded  many  an  unexpected  play  on  words  for 
the  Italiun.t  I'his  new  kind  of  pleasure,  like  the 
language  of  B.ibel,  charmed  the  national  ear; 
O'erv  province  would  have  its  dialect  introduced 
on  the  scene,  which  often  served  the  i>urpo«e  both 
of  recreation  and  a  little  innocent  malice.  Their 
moiks  and  dresses  were  furnished  by  the  grotesque 
masqueradcrs  of  the  carnival,  which,  doubtless, 
often  contributed  many  scenes  and  humours  to 
the  quick  and  fanciful  genius  of  Ruzzante.  I 
possess  a  little  book  of  Scaramouches,  &c.,  by 
Callnt.  Their  masks  and  their  c'ostume  must 
have  been  copied  from  the^  carnival  scenes.  We 
see  their  strongly -featured  masks ;  their  attitudes, 
pliant  as  those  of  a  posture -master ;  the  droller)' 


*  How  the  L.-itin  Sannio  became  the  Italian 
Zanni,  was  a  whirl  in  the  roundabout  of  et\'mo- 
log>',  which  put  Riccoboni  very  ill  at  his  ease';  for 
he,  having  discovered  this  classical  origin  of  his 
fai'ourite  character,  was  alarmed  at  Menage  giving 
it  up  with  obsequious  tameness  to  a  Cmscan 
correspondent.     The  learned  Quadrio,  however, 

S"ves  his  vote  for  the  Greek  Sannoj,  from  w^hence 
e  Latins  borrowed  their  Sunnio.  Riccoboni's 
derivarion,  therefore,  now  stands  secure  from  all 
verbal  disturbers  of  human  quiet. 

Sanna  is  in  Latin,  as  Ainsworth  elaborately  ex- 
plains, "  a  mocking  by  grimaces,  mows,  a  flout,  a 
frump,  a  gil>e,  a  srofi,  a  banter ;"  and  Sannio  w 
*'a  fool  in  a  play."  l^e  Italians  change  the  S 
into  Z,  for  they  say  Zmyma  and  Zambuco,  for 
Smyrna  and  Sanibucb ;  ant'l  thus  they  turned  Sannio 
into  Zanno,  and  then  into  Zanni^  and  we  caught 
the  echo  in  our  Zany. 

t  Riccoltoni,  Histoire  du  Tlu^&tre  Italien,  p.  53  ; 
Gimma,  Italia  Letterata,  196. 


of  their  figures:  while  the  grotesque  creatures 
seem  to  leap,  and  dance ,  and  raticulate,  and  ntove 
about  so  fantastically  under  nis  sharp  gnxer,  that 
thev  form  as  individualized  a  race  as  our  fairies 
ana  witches ;  mortals,  yet  like  nothing  mortal  1 

The  first  Italian  actors  wore  mask»— objections 
have  been  raised  against  their  use.  SignorelD 
shows  the  inferiority  of  the  modem  in  deviating 
from  the  moveable  or  rather  double  masks  of  aoti- 

5|uity  by  which  the  actor  could  vary  the  artificial 
ace  at  pleasnre.  The  ma^  has  had  its  advc^ 
cates,  for  some  advantages  it  pomeases  over  the 
naked  face ;  a  mask  aggravates  the  features,  and 
gives  a  more  determined  expression  to  the  comic 
character ;  an  important  effect  among  this  £uita»> 
tical  group.* 

The  Harlequi.n  in  the  Italian  theatre  haspaased 
through  all  the  vici.ssitudes  of  fortune.  At  nnl  he 
was  a  true  representative  of  the  ancient  Mime,  but 
afterwards  degenerated  into  a  booby  and  a  gour^ 
mand,  the  perpetual  butt  for  a  sham-witted  feUow, 
his  companion,  called  Brighclla ;  the  knife  and  the 
whetstone.  Harletiuin,  under  the  rcfonning  hand 
of  Goldoni,  became  a  child  of  nature,  the  deli^ 
of  his  countT)' ;  and  he  has  commemorated  the 
historical  character  of  the  great  Harie^uin  Soc^. 
It  may  serve  the  reader  to  correct  his  notions  of 
one,  from  the  absurd  pretender  with  us  who  has 
usurped  the  title.  "  Sacchi  possessed  a  lively  and 
brilliant  imagination.  While  other  Hariequins 
merely  repeated  themselves,  Sacchi,  who  alwa>-s 
adhered  to  the  essence  of  the  play,  contrived  to 
give  an  air  of  freshness  to  the  piece  by  his  new  sallies 
and  unexpected  repartees.  His  comic  traits  and 
his  jests  were  neither  taken  from  the  language  of 
the  l<iwer  orders,  nor  that  of  the  comedians.  He 
levied  contributions  on  comic  author>,  on  poets, 
orators,  and  philosophers  ;  and  in  his  impromptus 
they  often  discoi'ercd  the  thoughts  of  Seneca, 
Cicero,  or  Montaigne.  He  possessed  the  art  ol 
appropriating  the  rvmains  of  these  great  men  to 
himself,  and  allying  them  to  the  simplicit>-  of  the 
blockhead;  so  that  the  same  proposition  which 
was  admired  in  a  serious  author,  became  highly 
ridiculous  in  the  mouth  of  Ibis  excellent  actor."^ 
In  France  Harieguin  was  im'proved  into  a  wit,  and 
e%'en  converted  into  a  moralist ;  he  is  the  graceful 
hero  of  Florian's  charming  compositions,  which 
please,  even  in  the  closet.  "  Tliis  imaginar>'  be- 
ing, invented  by  the  Italians,  and  adopted  by  the 
French,"  says  the  ingenuous  Goldoni,  "  has  the 
exclusive  right  of  uniting  nalt/eti  with  finestt,  and 
no  one  ever  surpassed  Florian  in  the  delineation  of 
this  amphibious  character.  He  has  even  contrived 
to  impart  sentiment,  pxvion,  and  morality  to  hb 
pieces."t  Harlequin  mu^t  be  modelled  as  a 
national  character,  the  creature  of  manners ;  and 
thus  the  history-  of  such  a  Harlequin  might  be  that 
of  the  age  anol  of  the  people,  whose  genius  he 
onght  to  represent. 

The  histor>'  of  a  people  is  often  detected  in  their 
popular  amu<<ements ;  one  of  these  Italian  panto- 
mimic characters  shows  this.  They  had  a  Capitan^ 
who  probably  originated  in  the  SttUs  gloriotus  of 
Plautus :  a  bn>ther,  at  least,  of  our  ancient  Pistol 
and  Bobadil.  The  ludicrous  names  of  this  military 

*  SiimoreUi,  Storia  Critica  deTeatri.  torn. III.  263. 
t  Mem.  of  Goldoni,  I.  281.        t  Ibid.  U.  184. 


THE  PASTOMlMIC.il  CHARACTERS. 


/f.  [Shk'ci- 
Cip)Uflf/v 


fiightmed    by    nuDet:    Sa»^t  i   nufi'    »o 
CapiioH,  in  fompliment  To  the  Bputiirds,  Hfid  the 


SpmnLr 


htitorjF,  eipmivc  of  the 

iipcHh  the  dialed:  bol  vben  the  Vcnetiuu  loM 
NcgropoDtf  they  chinged   (bdr  nppn  dim  lo 


ST?: 

npeech  the  di 

bcfbro  hjtd  been  red,  u  t  aiQonaJ 

The  chinctenortbelullan 

euity  fumnhed  with  the  iiec<  ,  ,  . 
cmncdr.  Thit  InquiidolM  pcduttfae  Duunvu 
taken  fram  the  Lnrjta  ind  the  Itinicim,  bub- 
bling ttirc  LHin  in  UK  dldect  of  lenned  Bolocni. 
' rial  KrheiinlH  the  di3ect 


Dce  proTerbiBJly  aboantUni 


nhhed  Ihc  booby  aiinguigella  widi  U>  notciqi 
noie.  Moll^.  It  hill  fwm  Kert^ned,  dttcoven 
IB  the  ludin  ttieitre  u  Paiit  hi>  •■  HUcdn  mtlmi 
Ini,"  bl>  "Btsurdi."  fail  "L'Avttt,"  ind  hit 
"Sopln."  KibBO«feKdapiiiii>iiilbcAr«k(Uii, 
noTcnce  IB  ipeof  Mbioo  in  Btlitmlm.  The* 
■nd  other  |unloniinilc  ehAnctei>»  and  ntne  Iqdi' 
CToiu  nnes,  as  Ihe  fariagiiat  i  tpectukd  dotird,  i 

KndiiaJtf  inlToducrd  t^  the  inrcntire  powcnn 


ie*,  or,  as  they  fa*Te  been  de- 
inuil  Muqnciada^  of  Ruieanle, 

in  trnlh.  i  burlaq'ue  cotBedy. 
'  Italy  bccime  iJie 
Italian  PutTonuiue 


nortaliied  by  having  koi 


be  becune  the  moat  popular  man  ir 
the  Neapolitan  IhilUcineUci ,  whi 
deeper  Hudy,  added  ucwgracei  ~ 


m  ben  bot  thetraulato 


limitable  bumoi 


gnea  of  bia  tifure  i  the  floating  drape^  of  hii 
»ncifu1  dmt  could  be  amngcd  by  Ibe  dungeabli 
humoD]'  of  the  wearrr.    Doflda  (blLowed  him  in 


a  Ki^  of  Nand  cnnotMcd  Um. 
rteqnin  DoninieaonKtiinca  dined  ^ 
:.aata  XIV.— Tlbeiio  FiuriUi,  irtin ' 
antfter  of  SeaianHndi,  had  beeni 
npanion  of  the  boyfaoodof  Lovia. 

o  under  bit  portrait : 

iHi  Cam^dien 

Lrt  tra^  la  cin^^  t 


dunng  their  flourittiing  period : 


many  of  £em 


ly  among  the  populace^  but  the  tarn 

Italian  Pantamlme  had   two   peculiai 
a  uedes  of  bnlTbonery  technically  tc 


ctUatjon,  Quite  national,  yet  loclaaely  allied  toot 
notion  of  buffisonery,  that  a  Northern  critic  wi 
dot  teadily  detect  Ihe  •eparatingahadej  yet  Rii 
coboni  a«erti  that  they  fonncd  a  critical,  and  m 

wmctbing  in  then  peculiar  to  Italian  hnmouT,  v 

cult  to  deacribe  that  of  which  the  whole  mtg 

from  the  old TuKan  Lorci,  which rignifiesa  Itnc 
n*  vmethiof  wlUch  connect*.    Tliese  pleanniri 


y  In  thii  oencaiogy  of  charactei 
,  lb  •ptrlUiT  li  /acra  il  Ca^HJ 


EXTEMPORE  COMEDIES. 


si  pmaie  ar  joculvily ;  bul  v  inch 


•ceiie.  u<l  canneclioi  the  L. 
Ill  Uk  wbalc  iDgRhn-." 
kind  of  Qumkrj  ud  tfstun 


Wben  HulcqaiB  ind  supia  TrprcKDt  two  fi- 

&t  um  ^  wbich  Okj  npm*  iBor  lUte  of  rtu- 
Tido&i  HoricquiD  baving  munnuml,  SizijHq  cr- 
bortshim  tDgnun.imiuic  whicb  hriQp  OUT  Ibelr 
joaag  n^anm,    Scipia  cxpbiiu  HmrlFqain'!  Lm- 


al  Bupin ;  or  wii!i  a  nKfut  rouDKiMDce  tae 
oyiD^  to  mch>  fly.  ind  wild  bli  huul.  in  camL 
dapur,  would  cbop  off  the  wlnn  before  be  iw 


tb4t  of  ipccch ;  uid  Ihti  lutioiul  ctauaricmtic  is 


ductitm  into  Fnncf,  duLv  opoke  io  Tuli*n, 
tDdicnrCi  who  di«L  not  ■jodcnUDd  the  wdi.  w 
Dude  cofnpleltly  muten  of  Ibe  ulum  by  It 

llalimn  IhuliT  Dv.  lodeeil. recorded  *«ne  diItx 

Dtlcnog  4  tjilabLc.  kept  tb 


entJnrly  coalitwd  to  PantoTnici 
-* —  of  iDCmdueing  HirUqiiin  UD  iME 
which  be  plijrd  under  Ihe  hie^ed 


it^r^e' 


Ghi 


anmouch,  a  chancier  utiuljy  rcprE 
a  rh^l,  u  waJtiDg  for  his  maAer  Hai 
his  apartment:  haviu  pur  n^erylhio 

9  gently  hcbind  hirn,  an 


Jbsanli,  "  diiplareil  Ihe  mi 


■U  bearn  by  the  simplicity  of  oai 
moce  obntrred  that  "  Scatmi 


ff"ffi;' 


loceUigiblr  D  Ddien  cml 

B  Of  TT^eiii  ^d  C(  incdi 


.  _.jt  IbTT  could  deeply  in 

a  Coniedy  earned  on  by  dialogoe. 


in  fad,  compming  wliili  \,\--f  win:  icdng.  The 
plot,  coiled  SaitmriM,  CDn-L<(kne  merely  of  Ih^ 
scenes  enumerated,  vitb  (be  characlen  indjcate 
wd  fim  wntten  out ;  it  was  Ihen  vuspended  at  d 
back  of  the  uage,  and  fruui  the  men  inspccllnn, 
the  aelofi  came  lorward  Io  perfonn,  the  dialogue 


seotaiiDni  afforded  to  a  tvbole  rivjicioTu  people, 
and  tlie  recorded  celebnr>'  of  their  great  actcea, 

vouries  hare  muntained  that  il  poinesped 

When  Goldoni  irTonncd  Ibe  Italian  Ibeab 

•  Rome  of  the  ancient  Servant  were  print 
lUi,  by  Plaminiiu  scala.  one  of  Ib^r  great  ai   .    . 
Thcie,  accoediog  to  Rlccoboni,  comjn  of  nothii^ 
more  than  the  skeLctoDS  of  Cofnedies^  thr  "' 
nrvor,  as  Ibe  Prcncb  Icchoicatiy  term  a  pkri 
iDfcei>es-  He  Ban. "  They  an:  hot  lO  rfiort  is 

we  now  uIC  la  fin  U  the  back  of  Ihe  icenei. 

10  ftill  u  to  funuA  anv  aid  to  Itac  dialogue ;  Itacy 


I 


EXTEMPORE  COMEDIES. 


225 


reipiUr  Comedio,  be  found  an  invincible  oppo- 
■boa  from  the  enthusiasts  of  their  old  Comedy : 
fbr  two  centuries  it  had  been  tht  amusement  of 
ItalT,  and  was  a  species  of  comic  entertainment 
wh»di  It  had  created.  Inventire  minds  were  fond 
of  sketching  out  these  outlines  of  pieces,  and  other 
men  of  gemus  of  representmg  them. 

The  uaniratKm  of  nationu  genius  akme  could 

produce  this  phenomenon ;  and  these  Extempore 

Comedies  were,  indeed,  indigenous  to  the  soil. 

Rafy,  a  land  of  hmfirwiiaten,  kept  up  from  the 

time  of  their  old  masters,  the  Romans,  the  same 

fervid  fu»c>-.     The  ancient  Ateltan^  Fabul^,  or 

Aidlan   Farces,  onginated  at  Atella,  a  town  in 

the  Dei^bonrbood  of  ancient  Naples ;  and  these, 

too,  were  extempore  Interludes,  or,  as  Livy  terms 

them,  Rxpdta.    ^Wc  find  in  that  historian  a  little 

iBtertsttng  narrative  of  the  theatrical  history  of 

the  Rocnans :  when  the  dramatic  performances  at 

Home  were  becoming  too  sentimental  and  decla- 

nuionr,  banidiing  the  playfulness  and  the  mirth 

of  Comedy,  die  Roman  youth  left  these  grairer 

pcrforaiances  to  the  professed  actors,  and  revived, 

periups  in  imitation  of  the  hcentious  Satyra  of  the 

Greeks,  the  ancient  custom  of  ^xtsifying  pleasan- 

tnei,  and  throwing  out  jests  and  raillery  among 

themselves,  fbr    their  own   diversion.*     These 

Atellan  Farces  were  probably  not  so  low  in  humour 

ai  they  have  been  represented  ;t  or  at  least  the 

Roman  youth,  00  their  revival,  exercised  a  chaster 

tate,  for  they  are  noticed  by  Cicero  in  a  letter  to 

hiliteraiy  friend  Papyrus  Pxtus,  which  may  be  read 

IB  Nchnoth's  vemon.    *'  But  to  tum  nom  the 

Knons  to  the  jocose  part  of  your  letter — the  strain 

of  pleasantry  you  break  into,  immediately  after 

hiTing  quoted  the  tragedy  of  CEnomanus,  puts  me 

in  mind  of  the  modem  nuthod  of  introducing  at  the 

tni  of  Aese  grarver  dramaiic  puas  the  bt(ffo<ni 

Ammrr  ^f  ntr  Ivw  Mimes,  instead  of  the  more 

^tieoU  burlesque  rf  the  ^d  MeUan  Farce$."l    Thb 

very  carious  nasaage  distinctly  marks  out  the  two 

daaes,  whicn  so   many  centuries  after   Cicero, 

•ere  revived  in  the  fontomsme  of  Italy,  and  in  its 

Extempore  Comedy. i 


*  The  passage  in  Livy  is,  **  Juventus,  htstnoni> 
bos  Gtbeilarum  actu  rebcto,  ipsa  inter  se,  more 
aatiqno,  ridicuU  intexta  vernbusjactitare  csepit." 
Lib.  ni.  cap.  a. 

t  As  these  Jtellanee  Fabul^e  were  never  written, 
they  have  not  descended  to  us  in  any  shape.  It 
has,  indeed,  been  conjectured  that  Horace,  in  the 
fifth  Satire  of  his  first  Book,  v.  51,  has  preserved  a 
scene  of  this  nature  between  two  practised  buf' 
foom  in  the  "  Pugnam  Sarmenti  Scurrae,"  who 
challenges  his  brother  Cicerrus ;  equally  ludicrous 
and  scurrilous.  But  surrly  these  were  rather  the 
km  humour  of  the  Mimes,  than  of  the  Atellan 
Fucers. 

}  Mdmoth's  Letters  of  Cicero,  B.  viii.  lett.  ao; 
in  Graevius's  edition.  Lib.  ix.  ep.  16. 

i  Thb  passage  also  shows  that  our  own  custom 
of  annexing  a  Farce,  or  petite  piice,  or  Pantomime, 
to  a  tngic  Drama,  existed  among  the  Romans : 
the  introduction  of  the  practice  here  seems  not  to 
be  ascertained ;  and  it  is  conjectured  not  to  have 
existed  before  the  Restoration.  Shakspeare  and 
his  contemporaries  probably  were  spectators  of 
only  a  smgle  drama  at  one  performance. 


iwv^^m 


^^F^i>B»i 


The  critics  on  our  side  of  the  Alpn  reproached 
the  Italians  for  the  Extempore  CLmcdicn,  and 
Marmontel,  in  the  Encyclopedu,  rnxliiy  declared 
j  that  the  nation  d  d  not  pj^sc^s  a  mh 'le  Cc/medy 
t  which  could  endure  a  perusal.  But  he  drew  his 
notions  from  the  low  Farcer  of  the  Italian  theatre 
at  Paris,  and  he  censured  what  he  had  never 
read.*  The  Comedies  of  Bibiena,  Del  Lasca,  Del 
Secchi,  and  others,  are  modeb  of  claseucai  Comedy, 
but  not  the  popular  favourites  of  Italy.  Signorelli 
distinguishes  two  species  of  Italian  Comedy,  those 
which  he  calls  Commedie  jintuhe  edEruditi,  ancient 
and  learned  Comedies,  and  those  of  Commedu  deW 
Arte,  or  a  soggette,  Comedies  suggested.— The  hrst 
were  moulded  on  classical  models,  recited  in  their 
academies  to  a  select  audience,  and  performed  by 
amateurs ;  but  the  Commedu  a  s^gg'tto,  the  Ex' 
tempore  Comedies,  were  invented  bv*  profemonal 
acton  of  genius.  More  delightful  to'  the  fancy  of 
the  Italians,  and  more  congenial  to  their  talents, 
in  spite  of  the  graver  critics,  who  even  m  their 
amusements  cannot  cast  otf  the  maiucles  of  pre- 
cedence, the  Italians  resolved  to  be  plea<wd  for 
themselves,  with  their  own  natural  vein,  and  with 
one  feeling  preferred  a  freedom  of  original  humour 
and  ini'ention  incompatible  with  regular  produc 
tions,  but  which  inspired  admirable  actors,  and 
secured  full  audiences. 

Men  of  great  genius  had  a  passion  for  performing 
in  these  Extempore  Comedies.  Salvator  Rosa  was 
famous  for  his  character  of  a  Calabrian  Clown, 
whose  original  he  had  probably  often  studied 
amidst  that  mountainous  scenery  in  which  his 
pencil  delighted.  Of  their  manner  of  acting  I 
find  an  interesting  anecdote  in  Passen's  life  of  this 
great  painter ;  he  shall  tell  his  own  story. 

"One  summer  Salvator  Rosa  joined  a  company 
of  young  pcrmns  who  were  curiously  addicted  to 
the  making  of  Commedie  alP  tmproz'iso.  In  the 
mid5t  of  a  vineyard  they  raised  a  rtistic  stage, 
under  the  direction  of  one  Musst,  who  enjoyed 
some  literary  reputation,  particularly  for  his  ser- 
mons  preached  m  Lent. 

"Tlieir  second  Comedy  was  numerously  at- 
tended,  and  I  went  among  the  rest ;  I  sat  on  the 
same  bench,  by  good  fortune,  with  the  Cavalier 
Bernini,  Romanelli,  and  Guido,  all  well-known 

fersons.  Salvator  Rosa,  who  had  already  made 
imself  a  favourite  with  the  Roman  people  under 
the  character  of  Formica,f  opened  witn  a  prologue, 
in  company  Mnth  other  actors.  He  proposed,  for 
relieving  tnemselves  of  the  extreme  heats  and 
ennuif  that  they  should  made  a  Comedy,  and  all 
agreed.    Formica  then  spoke  these  exact  words : 

"  Non  boglio  gibf  che  Jactmmo  Commedie  come 
ciertif  che  taghano  It  panni  aduosto  a  chisto,  0  a 
chUlo  i  perche  co  lo  tiempo  se  fa  i/edere  chiu  'veloce 


*  Storia  Critica  de  Teatri  de  Signorelli,  tom.  iii. 
358.  Baretti  mentions  a  collection  of  four  thou- 
sand dramas,  made  by  Apostolo  Zeno,  of  which 
the  greater  part  were  Comedies.  He  allows  that  in 
tragedies  his  nation  is  inferior  to  the  English  and 
the  French ;  "  but  no  nation,"  he  adds,  "  can  be 
compared  ivith  us  for  pleasantry  and  humour  tn 
Comedy."  Some  of  the  greatest  names  in  Italian 
Literature  were  writers  of  Comedy.  Ital.  Lib.  iiif. 

t  Altien  explains  Formica  as  a  crabbed  fellow 
who  acts  the  butt  in  a  Farce. 


ij6                                       EXTEMPORE  COMEDtEB.                                              \ 

I*«'5!^«^  L°  'i^fu/^JX!^^^,^^''.! 

actor  of  tbii  icbool  greatly  dcpendt  on  the  excite- 

meol  he  receii  ei  from  ha  companion ;  an  actor 

t^lm  lilauini,  oc  juiRjif  ari.  i  crapori,  ( ilr  iill(/<nil 

beneath  nudiocnly  would  luin  a  piece.     "  But 

tki  ingt  i^a^i.I.  ill  «,«." 

figure,  memory,  voice,  Jnd  evin  Koubilily,  *re 

One  fin  d(  thi)  humour  Ua  id  the  dUlen, 

not  lufficient  (or  the  aeroT  alC  imfruiUti    he 

which  1)  Venetiin ;  bul  tbire  vu  i  codcqW 

muM  be  in  Iht  habit  ol  culnvaiinB  the  imagin.. 

HTokcsriiliiT,  (  (Dike  Id  Ihc  gns.    TbE  n>c 

of  Ihc  pawgc  B,  ■■  I  will  not,  howevtr.  Oal  urt 

ihnuUlmikc  t  Comtdj  like  ™uin  pciKDiwfao 

vibrate  in  Ihe  plaudin  of  an  audience."     And  Iha 

cui  cloibn,  ud  put  them  DO  Ihii  nuDt  buk, 

Ihe  moat  careful  educaMn,  are  likely  to  ka«e 

received  the  moU  nc^cctcd  one.     Lm™,  in  hia 

curiooi  Treati*  on  Tragic  Panlomime.  a»ml^  that 

Hd  htockih,  «hich  1  ihlDk  vocihr  Uk  Koideii 

moir  hnldoeB,and  throM.  out  acme  coriom  io- 

KiKTi  now  pnxcedi:  "Al  Ihii  lime  Banini 

formatiou  icpecliDg  thu  «ngiUar  an  ,■  "  Any  o«: 

hM  made  i  Comtdy  in  the  C«niul.  vn>-  pungeni 

•nd  biting;   ind  ihit  iiiinnKr  he  tuid  one  ul 

Cuielli'i  periiirTncd   in  the  luburht,  where,  to 
reproenl  die  diwn  of  ixf,  ip^aieil  oo  Ibe  ilige 

artalr   o  flo"le  otbmiK  J  aod   wheo   an   Ilalun 

SSsiESsSS/ES'S 

lupply  hi>  place.    An  Italian  actor  leaim  nothing 
br  head  -.  he  knk.  on  the  ...h]ccl  i»  a  momeiS 

before  be  comei  forward  on  the  uage.  and  eDtireIr 

mil  with  the  grou|«.     At  theie  wordi  ol  ihe 

formic,  I,  who  well  kneu  hi>  muninit,  >n)un>l> 

acloi  who  Li  accuHomed  merely  lo  recile  what  he 

flinced  mv  eve  it  Bem.ni.  to  obtene  hi<  ma>T- 

hai  been  taught  it  lo  completely  occnpied  hy  hi! 

meotii    bill   he,  wilh  ui  utihcial  ttnlawi-st. 

ihowed  Ihil  thrt  ■  cut  of  the  thein  '  did  nal  louch 

himi  uxl  he  mide  no  ippuent  ihow  uf  beiDK 

of  the  hunhen  he  u  cairiing.  that   he  tremblea 

likcaicboolbosor  ii  aa  inucleia  ai  an  Kcho,  aod 

thilhconhil." 

Thii  lliliin  Hon,  loM  with  HI  Ihe  poignut 

RiMi  of  Ihae  nvuioui  Diliva,  lo  whom  locb  i 

by  their  art,  charmed  the  ipeclaton  by  the  bcauly 

tion^  bj  >  miD  of  geoiui,  eniirely  m  Ihc  ipnil 

M  Ihc  ucicnt   KamaD  AleUui,  at  Ibe  GncuD 

Suin. 

fleiihiUty  of  their  pamons,  while  a  celUin  natural 

Riccoboni  hu  diKuncd  the  curioui  iub)ect  oT 

Eilempnre   Comedy   with    equjl    modesty  and 

diaJogne."                    '         otA     h- 

feclinx  1  and  Ghennli,  with  more  ciuIlatiOD  and 

^.mi^\^"-nji.todrf^--^-^,.Ri«obom, 

critical  canon   which  our  greit  poet,  but  not 

gracet   perfectly    i'u'  omi,   and    which   wrilten 

powerfiil  «;tor.  baa  delliered'to  the  aclmi  Ihcm- 

«lvo,"to  ipeak  no  more  than  i.  «t  don  for 

them."    The  present  ait  conaiiled  lo  happily  per- 
CMming  Ibe  revene 

moat  be  inribuled  to  the  (elLdtv  of  the  nukmal 

actor  of  tbii  ittcnptmn,  alwjii  gupponng  an 

fieniuj.     But  there  were  probably  tome  .octnaiik 

who  haacold5"^hS  part  6y  i»te."    But  Bic- 

in  thia  UDBUlar  art  of  Eitempore  Comedy  which 
the  pride  3  Ihe  aimt  baa  concealed.     Some  Iraila 
in  the  character,  and  »n>e  w.l  in  the  diakigue. 

nieoca  id  Ihi)  BDguiar  art.     One  dilBcully  not 

peiTenced  actor  on  Ihat  uage  would  make  uk  of 
hia  memon-  more  than  he  wai  wUling  to  confes. 

acton  nKikioE  lORdhcr  -.  each  one  eager  lo  icpiv 
belorTthe<.Ih£r^lini>hed.     II  wB  a  dIci  point 

GuMoni  r^cDTdt  an  unlucky  adnnluR  of  hi> 

predominant  character,  when  agitated  hi  (IgLeat  1  had  iketched  lor  the  tialiaa  company  i  it  wo  well 
pamioo ;  nor  did  il  lequire  a  lea  eaerciKd  tact  lo  1  received  M  Para,  but  utterly  faileJ  at  ronlaine- 
fcd  when  lo  HOP  i  the  ™it>  of  an  actor  often  ,  blt-u.  for  »n.e  ol  Ihe  acton  had  thought  proper 

llo^ently  required  that  imne  of  the  acton  at    lma0DaiTc,"  which   (tisplcaied    Ihe  couit,  and 
leait  ihould  be  bleiKd  with  gcoiul,  and.  wIllI  il    ruined  Ihe  piece.     «-hen  a  neo   piece  waa  to  be 

•euccly  Icn  difficult  to  t:od.withacerUine.|.iaIily  I  perfcimed,  the  chief  actoi  lummoned   Ihc  troop 

MASSIXOER,  MllTON.  AXD  THE  ITALIAS  THKATRE. 


ta  COOK,  nor  had  he  any  promplcr  to  bcJp  bim 
DO;  much»  Ion,  depended  od  tLe  ukntg  of  bii 
compabiont;  }et  umetimct  t  Kcne  might  be 
preconccTled,  Jnventioii^  bumouT,  bold  cancep- 
tlDD  of  chinctcr,  and  npidvtTDkciDfgegiiK,  they 
bibilually  excTcbed — and  (he  pjintomimic  tm  of 

genius  lor  a  moment  had  deserted  bim. 
decline  of  tliii  <iini(uLu  art  il<  dcr«li  became 


t  ifaall  ^ve  one  inccdoti 
ie  annib  of  thb  (bntre  by  the  adopted 


iiu  produced,  it  m 

laU  occur  tofiether. 
to  record  the  ponble 


lirS^e'«k: 
''and    be 


Elf 

elegance  of  chciT  dialogue ; 
been  jcaloui  of  the  ^JoatiDC 

and  that  their  pntcnded  E 

war  between  the  rival  theat 
chaLlL-nged  in  pcrlbrm   it.    1 


wbok  compiny  wu  ready  at  the  drawing  af  the 

thetriumpi.  LaMWteitfrwardi  compMid  tbil 
d^cifa,  yttnill  theeitemporeDneal'tbe  llalun 

■nd  the  public  were  deUghied  by  seeing  the  ume 

K'  rce  pnpetuaUy  oflcriu  rurt'dtiet  and  changing 
ehaiKler  al  lie  fancy  of  the  acton.   Thi.  fact 

the  OmidM  iilT  Am  to  a  new  pcifcction,  ^'  the 
introductign  of  an  eiegant  fable  and  ferioiu 
charutcn ;  and  he  raiKd  the  digmrt'  of  the  Italian 


KASSmOER,  MILTOK.  / 


baWtd  even  the  ken  t^t  of  Mr.  OiHord, 

It  is  in  "The  Emperor  of  the  Eait,"ro1.'m.  JIJ. 
The  Qnack  or  ~  Bmpiric'i"  bumotoui  itotion  is 
B  ciDiel)'  that  of  Moliere'l,  that  Mr.  Gilford, 
agreeing  with  Mr.  GUchriat,  "(iiidi  it  dIHicult  to 

ever  fcU  into  MoJicre"*  handif    At  that  perim 

'  and  OUT  own  language  were  aa  insulated  ai  I 
country,    tl  is  more  ihao  probable  thai  Havi 

wen   at   the   acknowledged    copy  of  Moll 

panlomima  was  olten  at  traditionally  preK 

auSm;   and  lotiw^f  The  Jucky"iti  of  I 

thaein 
reached 

E^bc 

belhan  period  teem  i 

markable  "  PUiIIi  ~  • 


wi  obkng  hole  in  iu  < 

votpoided  eo  iwoodn  I 
banly  oirlaTd,  nod  th 

LMe"wd?*lam 


in  Shnkapeaie  ^pw  m. 
it  la  caUed,  b  lurty  wi 


!  playen,  appear 


118 


SONaS  OF  TRADE,  OS  SOSGS  FOR  THE  PEOPLE. 


the  icidcT  of  a  (clcbnud 

rtitups,  be  (dib,  Shikipeire  tanda  to  tb 

htxe  liradj  laid?    Doa 


ti  iotemmne  between'  the 

itberi,  cclebnted  for  Iheir  *■  extcmootv]  vi 
be  writer  or  iamaw  of  one  of  mat  ^'Fimn^,- 
»D*«  lEemdi  of  one  of  onr  Kton  thai "  be  had , 
inick.  deJicate,  Rlhxd,  (Hm^H'iU  wll.'-  AdiIe 
Bother  Ihal  "  he  had  a  wDDdaoiu,p]ead(iiC  ptei 
wt,  (Mfps^al  wit."  line  mon  then,  wb 
""    '"■'■"   '  ^xenislDgdKir  Inipromplus. 


t  ijto— 11  wa  Ihtrrfore  in 


UioE  irreguUt  prnduciiooi.  «•>  Andntni,  ■ 

which  thciw  the  fint  ipait  of  Ibe  Puadui 

which  will  hardly  be  gaadaocd  by  IheK  who 
hare  eiiininRl  the  diacKin  Kbemct  ukd  alle- 
goncal  penaiuges  of  the  GiB  ptp^Kted  tr^ta  ill 
Fandiie  Lon :  nor  wu  AndTchi),  aa  weU  ••  mtay 
olheta  of  Ihit  race  of  Italiu  dnmaliita,  Inienir 
poen.  The  Adamo  oC  Andrdtii  wat  a  pmnny 
HUBrienll)'  (Higiiial  ami  poetical  to  letTe  a  l& 
model  of  the  Adam  of  Milton.  The  notfatnl  Eh- 
Cih  poei,  a  in  repRMntatioii,  ciirial  it  awir  ui 
hti  mind.  Wit  indeed  It  ■  gnat  tmrdler;  tni 
tho.  alao  the  "  Emiririf  "  af  HwmgR  might  hm 
reached  ui,  llain  the  Bokwncae  ■  ■  Dottote." 

The  late  Mr.  Hole,  Iht  Ingeniout  writer  oo  the 
AnUan  NIghti,  otwri-ed  to  mc  that  tflitri  it 
oiiBt  be  preninieil  Bcvct  nad  rbntrr-j  pia>i,  vet 
ha  "Bourgeoiie  OeDlilbommc"  aod  the  others 

Rreit  rejemblaore.  They  |K»nhlj  nuy  bare  drawn 
'■<""  JJ"  """^  Italian  Dorce  of  comedy  which  I 


d  ereo  raJTcmmeot^  have  occaiiooajly  aiHIrd, 
tender  the  people  happier  by  wne  and  dance, 
le  Grecian!  hid  Hwi  ippropnated^  to  ihc  rari- 

e  manafacturei'i  tedtoui  cutworl:,  tod  hIuc 
c  anuan  at  bia  loUtaFy  occupation.  A  beam  ol 
y  fancy  kindUna  lu  mind,  •  playful  chatwe  ol 


Bgipi  and  Oieece.    II  mijibl,  thetelOie, 
■■—  -le  U-MlU,frUiti  were  built  at  the  i 
ly  moiical  iutrumcDt  then  in  ux  j  I 


soUaa  OF  trade,  or  soxgs  for  the  people. 


vana  by  Tarkm  ETxdes,  bi 


R  not  wlibont  ibcit  cb 


in  hit"  ADdcnt  Bon^;"  ud  it  nuy  be  ioanA  ... 
the  popoUl  chip-bODk  dT  "  Tlie  Life  of  Ju:k  nl 
Vrmwiwyi"  ADd  tbc  Kinp  of  An^^lcn,  of  old  iHik 
Wilton,  And  Cbuki  CdIIOIi,  (till  refain  Ihdr  ** — ^ 


whkb  plKed  Hjimodiui  m  the  green  And  flowery- 

bb  vheel,  lod  enUTCKd  the  liboun  of  the  Pirzin 

Dr.  JiAnien  b  the  only  itriler  I  recollect  whn 

HcUe  woe  limed  by  liie  modulmtion  of  the  har- 

Vaief  icconpHiy  enry  Kdon  which  cm  be  done 
in  cqul  Umc  with  in  afpn^riau  ilrojn, which  hu. 
tber  B-Yt  aoE  mnch  meuiinK,  hut  itt  efTefla  arc 
■cgalartt7  Aod  cbeofulnes.    There  li  id  hf  mif 

the  heiTtfU  weU  u  givingvigour  to  the  arm  oi 

the  ituivu  of  TufO'    Prument*  of  Homer 
■ung  br  the  Greek  uilon  of  tbe  Arehipelago  i 


long  of  the  mcken  toWng 

theft  [lUce  of  rot.    Thetai.. _. 

of  1  higb-cuiling  wive,  piddling'  with  lU  Iheir 
might,  ringing  or  nther  ahouting  their  viLd  tong 
fbltsw  it  op,"  Hjn  H-Leod,  who  wh  1  Unly  wit 

ud  of  pctil,  which  he  icknDwled{[eii  wu  <*  a  irer 


BTlDg  (heir  iDchon,  hire  their ' 
nre  deepir  aflected  by  their  bei 

leful  proJecB  thai  dI 


ited  in 


i;,;*st,r 


t  Delp.  lib.  UV.  cap.  a 


guese  Bldiery  in  C^loD,  u  Ibe  iEe)(e  of  Colombo,  I 
when  preisca  with  miiery  and  the  panfpof  hnn-  I 
gcT,  that  they  derived,  during  their  mamhe*,  not 
only  consolation,  but  aln  encourigemenl,  by  re- 

We  ounelret  have  been  1  great  hallad  nation, 
and  once  abounded  with  mnpor  the  people;  not,  ' 
hDwever,of  thit  particular  inecie9,.lini  ralherof 
nactalive  poemi.   They  arc  deicnbed  hy  Putlen- 

upon  benchet  aniTbiReU'  hvaih,  wiiere  they  iiat-e 
no  olhcr  audience  than  boyi,  or  couulry  feliuwt 

haipcn.  or  inch  .ike  tavem-minslreli,  thil  iiii-e  ■ 

iiques  of  ancient  Englith  Poetij-,"  which  Selden 
collected,  Pepji  preierved.  and  Percy  puhiiihed. 

.,.: — ' .1...  I —  ,^  older  than  theretpiof 

.  s,'i:a,?""""     _ 

tbnuy  to  preserve  them  than  the  walb  on  * 
hey  pasted  them.  Thne  we  have  connt 
ucceedinB  race  of  ballidtchieAy  revived  or  w 


Thw  wriien.  In  their  old  a«,  collected  Ihei 


ii.cSled 


*  humble  and  amuilng  village  itrajni,  (bunitei 


le  nnsi  abounded  in  the  oiiod  old  times  of 


iiineranl  Autolycus.  When  the  late  Dr.  Bumey, 
who  bid  probably  not  the  lUdiiot  conception  of 
their  nature,  and  perhapt  aallttle  taste  tor  their 
nide  and  wild  simplicity,  ventured  to  call  the 


f^t 


230 


SOXGS  OF  TRADE,  OR  SOXGS  FOR  THE  PEOPLE. 


bitterest  notes  from  Steefcns  that  ever  commen- 
tator penned  against  a  profane  scotfer.* 

Whatever  these  songs  were,  tt  is  evident  they 
formed  a  source  of  recreation  to  the  solitary  task- 
worker.  But  as  the  more  masculine  trades  had 
their  own  songs,  whoie  titles  only  appear  to  have 
reached  us,  such  as  "The  Carman's  Whistle," 
"  Watkin's  Ale,"  "  Choppmg  Knives,"  «cc.,  they 
were  probably  appropriated  to  the  respective 
trades  they  indicate.  The  tune  of  the  "  Carman's 
Whistle  "  was  composed  by  Bird,  and  the  favourite 
tune  of  "  Queen  Elizabeth  "  may  be  found  m  the 
collection  called  "Queen  Blizal)eth's  Virginal 
Book."  One  who  has  lately  heard  it  played  savs, 
tliat  "  it  has  more  air  than  the  other  execrable 
compositions  in  her  Majesty's  book,  something  re- 
sembling a  French  quadrille." 

The  feeling  our  present  researches  would  excite 
would  naturally  be  most  strongly  felt  m  small 
communities,  where  the  mterest  of  the  governors 
u  to  contribute  to  the  individual  happiness  of  the 
laborious  classes.  The  Helvetic  soaety  requested 
Lavater  to  compose  the  SchtvehurliedHtr,  or  Swiss 
SongH,  which  are  now  sung  by  the  }'outh  of  many 
of  the  cantons ;  and  various  Swiss  poets. have  suc- 
cessfully competed  on  national  subjects,  associated 
with  their  best  feelings.  In  such  paternal  go- 
vernments as  was  that  of  Florence  under  the 
Medici,  we  find  that  songs  and  dances  for  the  peo- 
ple engaged  the  muse  of  Lorenzo,  who  con- 
descended to  delight  them  with  pleasant  songs 
composed  in  popular  language ;  the  example  of 
such  a  character  was  followed  by  the  men  of 
genius  of  the  age.  These  ancient  songs,  often 
adapted  to  the  different  trades,  opened  a  vein  of 
invention  in  the  new  characters,  and  allusions,  the 
humorous  equivoques,  and  sometimes  by  the 
licentiousness  of  popular  fancy.  They  were  col- 
lected in  1559,  under  the  title  of  "  Canti  Cama- 
scialeschi,"  and  there  is  a  modem  edition,  in  17CO, 
in  two  volumes  quarto.  It  is  said  they  sing  to  this 
day  a  popular  one  by  Lorenzo,  beginning 

"  Ben  venga  Maggio 
E'l  gonfalon  selvaggio,"t 

which  has  all  the  florid  brilliancy  of  an  Italian 
spring. 

The  most  delightful  songs  of  this  nature  would 
naturally  be  found  among  a  people  whose  climate 
and  whose  labours  alike  inspire  a  general  hilarity ; 
and  the  vineyards  of  Prance  have  produced  a  class 
of  songs,  of  excessive  gaiety  and  freedom,  called 
Chansons  dt  Fend'angt,  A  most  interesting  account 
of  these  songs  may  be  found  in  Le  Grand 
D'As80uc>-'s  Htsioire  dt  la  fie  privee  des  Ftanfais. 
**  The  men  and  women,  each  with  a  basket  on 
their  arm,  assemble  at  the  foot  of  the  hill ;  there 


stopping,  they  arrange  themselves  in  a  circle.  The 
chief  of  this  'band  tunes  up  a  joyous  song,  vboic 
burthen  is  chorused :  then  they  ascend,  and  dit- 
perscd  in  the  vineyard,  they  work  without  istcr- 
rupring  their  tasks,  while  new  couplets  often  it- 
sound  from  some  or  the  vine-drcasere ;  tomctiina 
intermixed  with  a  sudden  jest  at  a  traveller.  In 
the  evening,  their  supper  scarcely  over,  tfadr  ^ 
recommences,  they  dance  in  a  drcie,  and  naf 
some  of  those  aongi  of  free  gaiety,  which  the  mo- 
ment excuses,  known  by  the  name  oi  x/mtytri 
songs.  The  gaiety  becomes  general;  masleii, 
guests,  friends  servants  all  dance  together ;  and  in 
this  manner  a  day  of  labour  terminates  which  ooe 
might  mistake  for  a  day  of  diversion.  It  is  what  I 
ha\'e  witnessed  in  Champagne,  in  a  land  of  vUies 
far  diAerent  from  the  country  where  the  labounof 
the  har\-est  form  so  painful  a  contrast." 

The  extinction  of  those  songs  which  foiiucily 
kept  alive  the  gaiety  of  the  domestic  circle,  whose 
burthens  were  alwa^-s  sung  in  chorus  is  lamented 
by  the  French  antiquar>.  "Our  fathers  had  a 
custom  to  amuse  themselves  at  the  dessert  of  a 
feast  by  a  joyous  song  of  this  nature.  Bach  in  his 
turn  sung, — all  chorused."  This  ancient  pittj 
was  sometimes  gross  and  nois^- :  but  he  prmn  it 
to  the  tame  decency  of  our  times — these  M"i»i«|;, 
not  laughing  da>-k  of  Lord  Chesterfield. 


«« 


*  Dr.  Bumey  subsequently  observed,  that  "  this 
rogue  Autolycus  is  the  true  ancient  Minstrel  in  the 
old  Fabliaux ;"  on  which  Steevens  remarks, 
"  Many  will  push  the  comparison  a  little  further, 
and  concur  with  me  in  thinking  that  our  modern 
minstreis  of  the  opera,  like  their  predecessor  Auto- 
lycus, tat  pickpockets  as  well  as  singers  of  nonsensical 
ballads."  Steevens'  Shakespeare,  vol.  VD.  p.  107, 
his  own  edition,  1793. 

t  Mr.  Roscoe  hu  printed  this  very  delightful 
song,  in  the  Life  of  Lorenzo,  No.  XLI.  App. 


On  ne  rit  plus,  on  sourit  aujourd'bni ; 
Bt  nos  plaisirs  sont  voisins  de  I'ennui." 

Pew  men  of  letters  have  not  read  the  coOectloiif 
which  have  been  made  of  these  charming  Ckan- 
sonnettes,  to  which  French  poetry  owes  a  great 
share  of  its  fame  among  foreigners.  These  trea- 
sures of  wit  and  gaiety,  which  for  such  a  length  of 
time  have  been  in  the  mouths  of  all  Frenchmen, 
now  forgotten,  are  buried  in  the  dust  of  libraries. 
These  are  the  old  French  Faudex'tlUs,  formerly 
sung  at  meals  by  the  company.  The  celebrated 
Count  de  Grammont  is  mentioned  by  Hamtltoa 
as  being 

Agr6able  et  vif  en  propos ; 

Celebre  discur  de  bon  mots ; 

Recueil  vn'ant  d'antiqucs  yaudtvillet. 

These  t'audtvilles  were  originally  im-ented  by  a 
fuller  of  Fau  de  f^ire,  or  the  valley  by  the  river  f^ire, 
and  were  sung  by  his  men  to  amuse  themseh'es  as 
they  spread  their  cloths  on  the  bahks  of  the  river. 
l^ey  were  songs  composed  on  some  incident  or 
adventure  of  the  day.  At  first  these  gay  playful 
effusions  were  called  the  songs  of  fau  de  f^ire,  tiD 
the>'  became  known  as  FaudtviUes,  Boikau  has 
well  described  them : 

La  liberte  Franfoise  en  ses  vers  se  deploie ; 
Cet  enfant  de  plaisir  vcut  naltre  dans  la  yAc, 

It  is  well  known  how  the  attempt  ended,  of 
James  I.  and  his  unfortunate  son  by  the  publica- 
tion of  their  "  Book  of  Sports,"  to  preserve  the 
national  character  from  the  gloom  of  £anatical 

Kuritanism ;  among  its  unhappy  effects,  there  was 
owever  one  not  a  little  ludicrous.  The  Puritans 
otfcnded  by  the  gentlest  forms  of  mirth,  and  every 
day  becoming  more  sullen,  were  so  shocked  at  the 
simple  merriment  of  the  people,  that  they  con- 
trived to  parody  these  sono  into  spiritual  ones ; 
and  Shakespeare  speaks  of  me  Puritkn  of  his  day. 


I 


INTRODUCERS  OF  EXOTIC  FLOWIIRS.  FRUITS,  ic 


23« 


'sogii^  psalnu  to  hornpipes."  As  Puritaai  are 
the  same  in  all  times,  the  Methodists  in  our  own 
lepcited  the  UxAery,  and  set  their  h>-mns  to  popu- 
Itf  ttmes  and  jigs^  which  one  of  tnem  said  were 

*  coo  good  for  ttic  devil."  The>'  have  sung  hymm 
to  the  air  of  **  The  beds  of  sweet  roses,"  &c.    And 

*  there  have  been  Furitans  among  other  people 
M  wen  as  oor  own,  the  same  occurrence  took  place 
both  io  Italy  and  Ftance.  In  Italy,  the  Camiral 
floop  w«re  turned  into  pkms  hymn* ;  the  hymn 
J*m  fmnaid  mtrire  b  sung  to  the  music  of  htga 
Mia  tf  gfttt* — CmcifUso  a  capQ  chin»  to  that  of 
Cns  donna  ^amat  Jino^  one  of  the  mo$t  indecent 
pieces  in  the  Cant*ni  a  balh ;  and  the  hymn,  be- 

inwing         "  BccoT  MewU 

E  U  Madre  Maria," 

was  soi^  to  the  gay  tune  of  Lorenzo  di  Medici — 

*'  Ben  veng;a  Maggio, 
B'l  gonf^n,  sclvaggio." 

Athenjeos  notices  what  we  call  slang  or  flash 
songs.  He  tells  us  that  there  were  poets  who 
composed  songs  in  the  dialect  of  the  mob ;  and 
who  succecdedin  thb  kind  of  poctr>-,  adapted  to 
their  various  characters.  The  French  call  such 
songs  Chansans  k  la  Fadfj  and  have  frctiuently 
compoacd  them  with  a  ludicrous  etiiect,  when  the 
style  of  the  Pmssardit  is  applied  to  the  gravest 
matters  of  state,  and  conve>'s  the  popular  feelings 
in  die  language  of  the  populace.  This  sort  of 
satirical  song  is  nappily  defmed  in  a  playful  didac- 
tic poem  on  La  raudtviUr, 

**  n  est  I'esprit  de  ceux  qui  n'en  ont  pas.** 

Athencus  has  alto  preserved  songs,  sung  by 
petitioners  who  went  about  on  holicla>i  to  collect 
alms.  A  friend  of  mine,  >itith  taste  and  learning, 
has  discovered  in  his  researches,  "Tlie  Crow 
Song,"  and  *'  The  8wall6w  Song,"  and  has  trans- 
fused their  spirit  in  a  happy  version.  I  preserve  a 
liew  striking  ideas. 

The  Collectois  for  "  The  Crow  "  sung  : 

**  My  good  worthy  masters,  a  pittance  bestow. 
Some  oatmeal,  or  barley,  or  wheat  for  tht  Crow. 
A  kwf,  or  a  penny,  or  e'en  what  you  will, — 
From  the  poor  'man,  a  grain  of  his  salt  may 

suffice, 
F^r  your  Crow  swallows  all,  and  is  not  over- 
nice. 
And  the  man  who  can  now  give  bis  grain,  and 

no  more. 
May  another  day  give  from  a  plentiful  store. — 
Come  my  lad  to  the  door,  Plutus  nods  to  our 

wish; 
And  our  sweet  little  mistress  comes  out  with  a 

di^; 
She  gives  us  her  figs,  and  she  gives  us  a  smile — 
Heaven  send  her  a  husband  t — 
And  a  boy  to  be  danced  on  his  grandfather's 

knee. 
And  a  girl  like  herself  all  the  joy  of  her  mother. 
Who  may  one  day  present  her  with  just  such 
another. 

Thus  we  carry  our  Crow-song  to  door  after 
door. 
Alternately  chanting  we  ramble  along. 
And  we  treat  all  we  give,  or  give  not,  with  a 

song." 


Swallow-singini;,  or  Cheltdonislng,  as  the  Greek 
term  is  was  another  mvthoil  of  iroliccting  eleemo- 
synary gifts,  which  took  place  in  the  month  Boe- 
cCromion,  or  August. 

"  The  Swallow,  the  Swallow  U  here, 
Witli  his  back  so  black  and  his  belly  so  white. 

He  brintp  on  the  pride  of  the  year. 
With  the  gay  months  of  love,  and  the  days  of 

delight. 
Come  tiring  out  your  good  humming  stutf ; 
Of  the  nice  ttt-bi'ts  let  the  Swallow  partake  ; 
And  a  slice  of  the  ri^ht  Boedromion  cake. 
So  give,  and  give  quicklv, — 
Or  we'll  pull  down  the  dcnrr  fmm  its  hinges  : 
Or  we'll  steal  young  mailain  away  ( 
But  sec  !  we're  a  mcrr\  's  Imiv  's  party. 
And  the  Swallow,  the  Swallow,  is  here  !" 

These  lOngs  resemble  those  of  our  own  ancient 
mummen,  who  to  this  day,  in  honour  of  BuJxp 
Blaize,  the  Saint  of  Wool<omber<,  go  alK)iit 
chanttnj;  on  the  e\'c  of  their  holidays.  A  c  ustom 
long  existed  in  this  country  to  elect  a  BoyBiNhrp 
in  umost  every  parish  ;  the  Montem  at  Eton  still 

Erevails ;  and  'there  is  a  cIokt  connexion  perhaps 
etween  the  caitom  which  produced  the  "  Son^ 
of  the  Crow  and  the  Swallow,"  and  our  Nurthem 
mummeries,  than  may  be  at  first  suspected.  The 
Pagan  Saturnalia,  which  the  Swallow  song  by  its 
pleasant  menaces  resembles,  were  afterwards  dis- 
guised in  the  forms  adopted  by  the  early  Chris- 
tians; and  such  are  the  remains  of  the  Roman 
Catholic  religion,  in  which  the  pccple  were  long 
indulged  in  their  old  taste  for  mockery  and  mum- 
mery. I  vnwA  add  in  connexion  w  ith  our  m.tin 
inquiry,  that  our  own  ancient  beggars  bad  tbeir 
songs,  some  of  which  are  as  old  as  tne  Elizaliethan 
period,  and  manv  are  fancifully  characteristic  of 
their  habits  and  their  feelings. 


INTRODUCERS  OF  EXOTIC  FLOWERS, 
FRUns,  &c. 

There  has  been  a  class  of  men  whose  patriotic 
affection,  or  who!^:  general  benevolence,  have  l)een 
usually  defrauded  ol  the  gratitude  their  countr)' 
owes  them :  theiic  have  been  the  introducers  of 
new  flowers,  new  plants,  and  new  rrK)ts  into 
Europe ;  the  greater  part  which  wc  now  enjoy 
was  drawn  from  the  luxuriant  climates  of  Asia, 
and  the  profusion  which  now  covers  our  land 
originated  in  the  mont  anxious  nupiini;,  and  were 
the  gifts  of  individuals.  Monuments  are  reared, 
and  medals  struck,  to  commemorate  events  and 
names,  which  are  less  deserving  our  rei^ard  than 
those  who  have  transplanted  into  the  coliicr  ^ar- 
4ens  of  the  North  the  rich  fruits,  the  beautiful 
flowers,  and  the  «ucculcnt  pulse  and  ^M>t^  <it  more 
favoured  spots;  and  carr\ing  into  their  own 
countr>',  as  it  were,  another  Nature,  they  have,  as 
old  Gerard  well  expresses  it,  "laboured  N\ith  the 
soil  to  make  it  tit  for  the  plants,  and  with  the 
plants  to  make  them  delight  in  the  soil." 

There  is  no  part  of  the  characters  of  Peirkhc 
and  Evelyn,  accomplished  as  they  are  in  so 
many,  which  seems  more  delightful  to  me,  than 
their  enthusiasm  for  the  garden,  the  orchard,  and 
the  forest. 


tSTSODVCERS  OP  EtOTK  FLOWERS,  FRUITS,  %e. 


trA,  bctr  «  cUy -coloured 


^-^X"i^ 


\c  "baX  hid  ETudr  vai' 

il  ginScu ;  tnA  hjving 
toTTTA  froia  Spaia.  tbii 

b«UM  I  pin  of  ihc 


biaicd  in   Ibcir  delightful    en 

Uku  pr^  in  the  cold  lir  ol 
bim  iheit  i-egeutik  fiya.    Ii 


j|«eritv.    The™"  ' 


the  "  Syli.  ■■  of  BTel>Ti 


ulion.  iq<l  >«ho  CAMing  A  prophtrtic  eye  IDwu 

our  fOverci^Tv  of  the  ku.     The  pmeni  UTy 
Grejl  Britain  'ba  been  coiHtTucted  «itti  (he  « 

Animaieil  b)'  >  K*l  truJy  pttriotic^  Di  ftiHR 
in  FYince.  ij»».  eompoiei]  i  work  on  the  «i 

dpil  hmIv  ot  Pim,  ta  exdle  ^  inhabttutB 
brlTy-lrea  in   Ihc  i-icinEly  of  Pirii;  bal  u  tbey 
tbdr  pBim.  Tbcy  (ore  np  the  miilbeny-Trcci  thc^    i 


^ /1^riaiUttr€  du  Difarirm 


.    .re  wu  4  pcnol  when  ibe  ipiriT  of  plantatkn 

wu    piTTzlcnl    in    thii    kingdom  -,     It    probjblf 

''  kted  ItDtn  the  riTiget  of  the  loJdlery  dnrit^ 


mrnmoiu^  ind  ippointing  oAccn,  w* 

even  the  cbilc!  will  pre^  it  before  ben 
the  rtory  goeth,"  which  he  hu  pre* 

be  poor  man'i  child  innted  wat  to  dii 
itb  flab  of  oxen,  iheep»  uh)  btted  fw 

id  TCt  tfaii  child  ID  lUy  lud  hrtle  min 
m  have,  quoth  he,  no  upple*  AiTise,  no 


their  pBim.  They  (ore  op  the 
had  pLuited.  and,  in  ipiie  of 


JXTSODOCESS  OF  EXOTIC  FLOWEBS,  FRUITS,  Jr. 


nic  iniT  richim.    Odc  of  tbw  cc 
ITicd  by  t  gnft  fp  bequ^dh  ta  tun 


trrv*,  jm^  with  tbe  tiroai  01  bu  pcAchc^  je 
ETKpa,  CDofencd  by  Rmcfamoi  id  bavr  cquilli 

luliial  iBlccd  ttut  bif  vbilc  lia  tftc  jj  gtxid 
»o)(rf  tbil  inninla])-!  uidt/hij  "bjvJng  h. 


:  cvrfuiijF  tniLfponcd  into  lb 


^>r; 


■nmrisk  ;  the  fint  omngts  npjuar  to  hi«  been 
brought  inlo  Gn^and  bf  one  ol  the  Carcv  limilv ; 
kn  ■  century  itler,  tbey  Kill  flourithi'd  it  the 
family  tax  M  B«lilinglon,  In  Burtcj,    The  cherry 


:h  the  iiUnd  of  Zinte  «i> 


tunjiy  of  iteal  ng  itpricott 

Witter  Riwlei^  we  have  not  been  Imklned  wlelv 
lor  the  luinn'  oF  the  tebicce-plial,  but  for  thit 

d«il>'  mciil,  »n<t  oflen  the  entire  rneil  of  the  poor 
miti — the  potato,  which  deierved  to  have  been 
caJled  e    RawUigh.    ftr  Anthon)'   Ashley   litn 

ilmotcd  cibbiges  m  thil  country,  and  ■  cabHEe  at 
11  feet  ippem  on  hii  monument.  Sir  Richard 
Weston  firit  bmught  dovcr  fjm  into  En^nd 
horn  Minden,  in  ittj  ;  and  Ihe  liei  planlnl  hy 
Cirdiul  PoJe  a  Lunbelb  to  fat  back  b  the  reign 

DOT  it  ihit  nnriiliig,  for  Spilman,  who  Kt  up  the 
Knl  piper-mill  in  England,  at  I>it1lord,in  iJ9S,it 
i^d  to  hB¥e  bnmght  over  in  hit  portmanteau  the 
two  Ant  lime-treeai  which  he  planted  here,  and 
which  are  niU  growing.    The  Lonibanly  poplar 

Rochford  in  1)58.  The  fiiit  mulbeny-tteea  hi 
thii  cwintry  arc   now  ttanding  at  ftion-houie. 


subject,  that  there  ( 


our  coun1r^Tnen  poHCAing  chcTT^'-orchardl.     Yet 

race  of  cherry-trees  was  hM  in  the  Suon  period, 
and  was  only  ^:^lo^ed  by  Ibc  »rdener  of  Henry 
VIJI.,  who  bmught  Iben  from  Flanders — without 

A  calculaUng  K^ical  economist  will  liltk 
si'mpathise  witn  the  peaceful  triumphs  of  those 
active  and  geiterDus  ipiritn,  who  have  thus  propa- 
galnl  Ihe  truest  weahh,  and  the  miM  innocent 
luiuries  of  the  people.  The  prdnt  of  a  new  lai. 
or  an  adihtl«i>l  consumption  uf  ardent  >piri(i.  or 

popolalion  by  forbidding  the  banns  of  lome  happy 
couple,  would  be  more  congenial  to  their  re- 
learebcs;  and  they  wouM  Leave  witlioul  rcffret 
the  names  of  those,  whom 


ilrj-.    The 


K  great  Caplains,  an 


Kvcral  torts  of  a»les  and   pears 

Manlian  and  Clandian,  pompeyan  and  Tibeiian, 

brtnging  cherry  and  nut-treei  from  Pontus  into 
Italy.  And  we  haire  several  modem  Instances, 
where  Ihe  name  of  the  traniplanter,  nr  rearer,  hii 

Collintan,  the  bolaniit.  to  "whom  Ihe  Ent^isb 


USURERS  OF  THE  SFVENTEESTH  CENTUET. 


uqulreil  b)' mruB  Qf  m  ntFTuI  vr 
foTRHUiKicncc  in  AmeriM,"  «H  hL|dkly  gralllicil 
wbni  LinDf  ui  biptlKd  ■  plant  wiTh  nb  cume ; 
And  wilh  grul  ^rii  Ascrti  bii  tumourabk  ctiim  : 
I  Tnink,  wd  A]k  to  nw  for  the  greal 

ibrnd,  ud  you  bin  bc«i  u  good 

nity,  bataniul^'  fpcikiog ;  that  li,  a  nunc  ■■ 
long  •>  men  (oil  boob  endun."     Socfa  is  the 


id  ml  Queen-apple,!  I 


'nctJciL  phllHiphfr.  vho  coDcenimcd  fan  tIsd- 
noocy.  He  flouritbed  tbrcnuh  Ibc  Tdgrit  erf 
be  "coQTt  orwDdt,"  (ill  Ihil  fingulAi  ^un  wu 


qudtiug 


WD  limnhe  iroa  fiUcd  "The  greit  Audleyi"  . 
pithet  HO  often  Abavd,  utd  hoc  appUed  in  tl 

»md9  of  gTi:4t  cipicity,  conceatcd  br  tbe  lutij 


Je4  Fnncob,"  «'o1^  I-p,  U3;  vtiere  ou;  bcfou 

t  IVvhjim  hdberegneh  i  note'    "Tbe/Jlu 

ciiued  b)'  ene  tundn^  lilndi  la  be  brought  fan 
u  did  1  gsildwr  oA  OtnnEa  in  Itilie  fry  cloi 
gilliHcrwen.  uid  ctnunum  of  neb  eoLonn  u 

a  Tbe  qnetn-apple  «u  pnibibJf  thni  diX 
goBhed  in  mnplimeni  to  Biiunnh.    Ip  HnA 

I  mulbenr-itDCk,  nd  Iheo  wu  IhniDa^  ivdii 
mil  queen  ipplei.  ciUedby  Ruelliiu,  KuMlUtu 
•nd  Ct—^>—  bj  niny."    I  im  mid  the  nee 
not  ritinct ;  ah  ipple  of  ttus  description  ii  yet  1 


iimlDi  "the  dtleiuble  un  d(  Tliun,"  pio 
Diled  liy  Cod  ind  m»;  but  the  Mouic  pro 


iteren  tor  oins^  but  it  vu  not  lorbiddeo  tlw 
hlhen,  who  aodcr- 


tbcy  hid  thu 
«in,"  mod  ''the  iRirakculitG  ttHuKptioti ;"  while 
the  icholurtc*  imaicd  thenuetva  vlth  «  quint 
aod  collegiate  fincy  ^Ich  they  bad  picked  ap 
in  Ariflotk.  Ibal  Intent  for  money  iai  been  (Dr- 
uid nnpTopagtting.  unlike  corn,  of  ithich  every 

no  doubt  itut  money  vju  not  incipibJe  of  mulli- 
plyiDg  laetr.  pTthnded  it  was  in  hands  whici  kn?* 
10  make  it  gTov  and  "  breed,'*  as  fEhylock  af- 
firmed.   The  lawyeii  then  however  did  not  agiec 


clired,  that  the  lupprenion  of 

ve  agreed  with  ibc  Icanied  Cc 
rntCFprclef"   derive*   the  tcnr 


uatJS 


tenia  the  ham 


indred.  (be  RTipe  ol  Uwry,  and  tbe  ihaaielcai 

[TibutE  10  tbe  iaiUa  oi  Olben,  or  to  hii  own 

Thii  sage  OS  Ihe  wealth  of   natitmi,  wilh    hii 
thy  ttiMom,  afld  qujiol  ^aAcir.v,  be^n  will 

gages  bn  rtnlulo.  and  bii  judiiments  w  numc' 
mua,  thai  it  uas  □bsen'ed,  h»  papers  would  have 
tnadc  a  good  map  of  Ent-iand.  A  ccnlempdrat^ 
dnmatiit^  who  copied  rrom  hre.  has  opcikcd  thi 
chumbet  of  inch   ao   Uiuitt,  perhaps  of  ouj 


( 


USURERS  OF  THE  SEVESTKKSTIi  rryTLliY. 


255 


1 


••  Here  lay 

A  minor  bound  fut  in  a  ^km  orp.ircliinent. 

The  vu  continuinjg  hard,  the  acm  melting ; 

Rene  a  rare  deed  ofgift  for  a  markvt'town. 

If  not  redeemed  thbdiiy,  uhich  in  not  in 

Tbe  ttnthrift'4  power ;  there  beina  Mrarce  one  «h ire 

la  Waie*  or  Enpland,  where  mv  monies  are  not 

Lent  out  at  usury,  the  certain  hook 

To  draw  in  more." — Matrtinifcr's  City  Madam. 

This  gcniu4  of  thirty  per  cent.  fir»t  had  pro\-cd 
the  decided  1  igour  of  hiit  mind,  bv  hi<  enthusiastic 
deiolton  10  hvi  law  4tiulie«  :  deprived  nl  the  leisure 
(or  itndy  through  hb  hu^-  day,  he  ?»tnle  the  houn 
from  hi«  Utc  niffhtsand  his  early  mominp;  and 
without  the  means  to  procure  a  ljw>lit>rary«  he 
inrentcd  a  method  to  ooshev  one  without  the 
coat ;  as  fxst  as  he  leamea,  he  tauiEht,  and  by  puh- 
Miing  Dome  useful  tracts  on  temporary  ociasirrni, 
he  was  enabled  to  purchase  a  library.  He  appears 
netTT  to  have  read  a  t)<K>k  without  its  furnishing 
hun  mith  some  new  practical  de(i]ni.  and  he  pnv 
babhr  -tudied  too  mnch  for  his  own  p»rticuhr 
adta'ntJise.  Such  devoted  studies  was  the  way 
tn  becctme  a  lord  chancellor ;  but  the  science  of 
the  law  was  here  subordinate  to  that  of  a  niuney- 
nader. 

When   yet  but  a  clerk    to  the  Clerk    in  the 
Counter.  fre>]iient  opportunities  occurred  which 
AVDLEV  knew  how  to  impn>\e.     He  liecame  a 
nooe>- -trader  as  lie  had  became  a  law-writer ;  and 
the  fears  and  irtliies  of  mankind  were  tn  iuniith 
him  siitb  a  tradini;-ijpital.    'I1ie  fertility  of  his 
pnuus  appeared  in  expedients  and  in  quitk  tim- 
tritaaces.     He  was  sure  to  Itc  the  triend  of  ail 
men  falling  out.     He  took  a  deep  concern  in  the 
aifainof  his  ma-tier's  clients,  and  often  much  more 
than  tbe>  were  aware  of.     No  m.ui  •lo  rendy  at 
piocuring  bail  or  compoundini;  debts.    This' was 
accnsidCTable  traiHc  then,  as  how.    'I*hey  lured 
thdnselres  out  for  bail,  suore  what  was  rci^uired, 
acd  contrived  to  gi%'e  false  addresses.     It  <eems 
they  dressed  thems:lvcs  out  for  the  occasion  :  a 
i;reat  sul-ring  tlamed  on  the  tin^-r,  which,  how- 
ever, «as  pure  copper  gilt,  and  they  often  assumed 
the  uaitic  of  suime  perx^n  of  ^(X)d  credit.    Savings, 
and  small  presents  fitr  gr:ituitnus  opinions,  often 
afterwanU  di^-overed  to  l>e  very  fallacious  one^, 
enabled  him  to  purchxse  annuities  of  easy  liind- 
holileis,  with  their  treble  amount  iccureii  on  their 
ntates.    The  impro^ulent  owrners,  or  the  careless 
heirs,  weie  soon  entangled  in  the  usurer's  nets ; 
and,  after  tlie  receipt  of  a  few  years,  the  annuit\ , 
hy  some  latent  r|uiblile,  or  some  irre^j^iilarity  in 
tbcp»-mcnts,  usually  ended  in  Ari>L£v'ii  obtain- 
iDStlie  treble  forfeiture.    He  could  at  all  times 
Autkitwe  a  knave.     One  of  these  incidents  has 
hern  pnnersed.     A  draper,  of  no  honest  rcpnta- 
tioa,  being  arrested  by  a  merchant  for  a  debt  of 
Mif.,  AcuLEY  bought  the  debt  at  40/.,  for  which 
the  draper  immeciiately  c»f)ered  him  50/.       Bnt 
Ai'Bicv  would  not  consent,  unless  the  draper  in- 
iliilged  a  sudden  whim  of  his  own;  this  was  a 
formal  contract,  that  the  draper  should  pay  within 
tfteMy  t-ears,  upon  twenty  certain  da\-s,  a  penny 
^hieo.    A  knave,  m  haste  to  sign,  is'  no  calcula- 
tor; and,  as  the  contemporary  dramatist  describes 
MKof  the  arts  of  those  citizens,  one  part  of  whose 
biMineawM 


"  To  swear  and   break :   they   all   grow   rich  by 
breaking '" 

the  draper  eagerli  compounde«l.  He  alterwariN 
"grew  rich."  Aiolky.  silently  wjtching  his 
\ictiin,  within  two  year>,  lijims  his  douliled 
pennies,  e%'cry  month  during  tuenty  months. 
The  pennies  li  id  now  grown  up  to  jx-iinds.  'i'he 
knave  perceived  tlie  trick,  and  preferred  {Mving 
the  forfeiture  of  his  bund  for  500/.,  r.ither  tli.m 
to  recci\e  the  \i«itjti-in  rf  :ill  the  little  gener.t- 
tion  of  com[Kiunil  intere'>t  in  the  1 1'^t  dvwnil.nit 
of  3000/.,  which  would  hive  <  UiM-d  with  the 
drapei's  shop.  The  iiiveiiti\e  genius  of  .\\  !iL»v 
might  have  illuNtrited  that  pnpul.ir  tr;ut  ol  his 
own  times,  PiMcham's  "  Worth  nf  a  Fv.nn\  ;"  :i 
gentleman  who,  h.iving  si-anely  one  left,  urn- 
■foled  himself  by  <letdiling  tli-.-  ninm-rous  mni- 
forts  of  life  it  might  pruiure  in  the  d.i\s  1  i 
Charles  II. 

Such  jK-tty  enterprises  .-it  I'.ngth  .lyviuiu-il  .1 
deeper  cast  «:f  interi-jit.  He  lonned  temp«ir.ir) 
partncTships  with  the  stewMrds  f<l  louiitrv  gen- 
tlemen. l*hey  underlet  estates  whuh  they  hid 
to  manage;  and,  aniii  ip.iliu^:  the  dwner's  neiet- 
sities,  the  est.ites  in  due  tunc  liei-tiue  ihe.ip  pui- 
ch.ises  for  Arin.KY  .md  the  stew  irds.  He  iimi.iIIv 
contrived  to  ni.ike  the  wood  p.iv  for  the  hud, 
which  he  c;illed  "  ni.ik.ing  the  fc.<i!ier>  p.i\  fi  r  the 
go(»sc."  He  li.id,  Imwevir,  suih  a  teiidenu'.s  of 
consi'ience  for  Ins  vutiin,  that,  lia\in«[  pluiked 
the  live  fL-.tthers  l)el<>re  he  si-nt  the  unfledged 
goose  on  the  ckiiiiooii,  he  woiild  bestow  a  gn- 
tuitous  lecture  in  his  o\mi  siu'iue— te:i(  hini;  the 
art  of  making  them  i:n>vv  ag.iiii,  bv  shuwuig  luiw 
to  ruise  the  ri-in.iining  rents.  Aiully  thus  irnde 
the  tenant  lunush  at  (jiice  the  means  to  viti-lv  liis 
own  r.tpacitv ,  .iiid  his  einpio\i-r's  nev'es''itie«.  His 
.iv.irice  was  net  working  bv  a  blind,  but  1  n  an 
enliLrhteiied  principle;  tor  be  w.ls  onU  rndiliiig 
the  l.indhird  to  obtain  wli:it  the  ten.int,  with  duo 
industry,  could  aifonl  to  i>ive.  Adam  Sinith  iniglit 
have  delivered  hiuisi-lf  in  the  I.tiuMi.tge  i-l  •■Id 
Arr>i.hY,  Ml  just  w.is  bis  it  iiul.irii  of  the  v.iliif  of 
rents.  "  I'nder  an  eisy  landlord,"  sml  Ai  iii.i:^, 
"  a  tv-n.int  sc^ldoni  tlirives;  contenting  hiiii-^i'll  to 
make  the  ju>t  measure  oi  his  rents,  ,ind  not  Iibour- 
ing  lor  any  surplusage  of  estate.  I'luler  ;i  h.ird 
one,  the  tenant  reveiiiies  himsi-lt  ii|k^)ii  the  land, 
and  runs  .tw.iy  with  trie  rent.  I  woulil  r-iiM.*  my 
n*ntH  to  the  present  price  of  all  ("mniodities : 
for  if  we  >hould  let  our  Kinds,  .is  tit  hi  r  men  have 
done  before  us,  lurw  other  w.ires  il.nly  go  on  iii 
price,  we  sli<uild  fall  backw.ird  in  our  ett-iles." 
These  axioms  <if  i>ulitic.d  eeoivmiy  were  «lisio\c- 
ries  in  his  d.iy. 

Al'I>lev  knew  mnnkind  prartietlly,  tnd  strm  k 
into  their  humours  with  the  ver>(tilii\  of  gi-inus  ; 
onicularly  deep  with  the  grave,  he  onlv  >t(iiig  the 
lighter  inind.  Wlien  a  l'>rd  borrow ini;  inonev 
cnmpLiined  to  At'iH.F.Yol  his  ex.i<ti<>ns,  his  lord- 
ship exclaimeil,  "  What '  ilo  \i)ii  not  intend  to  use 
a  conscience  ?"  "  Yes.  I  inieiid  hereafter  t«»  use 
it.  We  monied  jH-ople  mu>t  balance  aicounts: 
if  you  do  not  pav  uk",  vou  cheat  me  ;  but,  if  you 
do,  then  I  cheat  your  lf»rdship,"  Ai  oiky's 
monied  conscience  balanced  the  risk  of  his  lord- 
sliip's  honour,  against  the  pndialiility  <if  his  own 
rauaciiuis  profits.    When  be  resided  in  thel'emple 


Ij6                    USURERS  OF  THE  SEVENTEENTH  CENTUET.                           | 

imoBE  IhoK  "  puUcB  witboul  h Uhen,"  u  in  old 

and  Ihe  natute  of  a  London  tombler  wa.  "  lo 

hunt  dry-fool,"  in  ihii  manner :—"  Tile  tumbler 

piik  out  pitmuJ  bomilin  on  im|in)™l™i  youlh, 

■be  law,  only  Ici^t  u  be  Uk»  i"  -d  "  ne>^ 
knew  tay  ibeir  own  iludiei  tbe  pRXCM  of  tn  exe- 

rfiopjof  mercera.  golilsmith^  drapen,  haberdaih- 
en,  lo  meet  with  a/iriil,  Ihal  i\  a  ciBien  who  ii 

coiild  be  fiil  in  hn  pispticci' :  fur  al  the  moment 

lo  have  oul.weaned  himirlf  by  hunting,   and 

tbil  the  Snac  »u  eiSuri^  their  [idicole.  bi> 

•wean  tbal  the  cilyterreti  are  Bcoiped  (that  is, 
have  Ihcii  Uf  Hitched  up  dote)  that  be  can'l  btI 

menu  Dl  iRi^iDf  It  1  Tor,  n  It  li  quitotly  Bid.  be 

them  to  open  lo  >o  greil  i  sum  at  jool.,  which  the 

bid  bb  4«*y»{  »  mil  u  hii  ^itjing  nillenien. 

wanenwiBl.  "ThShcrb  beingcbeweddown  b%- 

the  nbbit-gucken.  ilmoH  killi  Iheir  beam.     11 

time  h.™lJS^A»iled'bt  ™="S  Ibc  tm^  I.U- 

iTTilate*  their  appetite,  and   Ibey  keenly  bid  Ihe 

tiiB  of  the  we.    Decker,  in  hit  "  Engliih  VHU- 
nles,"  hu  told  the  nory ;  we  nmy  ohKne  how  tn 

nimbler,  if  he  c.n-|  fallen  oo  pl«e  o.ck)ih,or 

tinu,  to  lay  hold  of  h-^-n  fop^,  B.r,l..l.mn. 

nponed,"  laji  Decker,  "that  cne  gentleman  of 

covering  the  usurj'  by  •  pnrlended  puKhw  ind 

great  hopes  took  up  leof.  in  hobby-borM.  and 

uleof  ctrtiln  wua,  even  nowpnctited,  watben 
In  "  MeuuR  fot  Mcuhr  "  we  find. 

■old  Ibem  for  ul.  i  and  id;.  in  joints  of  mutton. 

modily  at  irra-n  fapir  mj  M  (rnnr,  nine  icare 
ind  Ki-enteen  poundi;  of  which  lie  roide  live 
mirk.  ««Jy  money." 

SSsSSl';HiiS.Vs! 

The  eiRct  "gull,"  f«  hii  immediite  winti. 

but  Ihe  finh  ii  an  oak  that  cm  bear  Ihe  hewing. 

Ihe  tumbler  fclthei  hia  second  career;  and  tbrir 

the  COM  1  uul  when  dopxch  ptews.  the  tender 

ciTdii  having  obtained  Ihe  purse-nets.  Ihe  wan 

for  the  ratbii-iiiciiri,  those  who  buy  these  furw 

The    whole    diipliyi    a    complete    nUcm    of 

tuu :  but  the  rttbil-aiiifi  seem  greater  devils 
than  the  /rrrrli,  for  Ihey  always  bid  ululer  i  and 

r.,r-rsr,srhr,,..  ™»»'^i£ 

»IS  of  undoi^"(^U™cn  bj^king  up  of 

whidide«ii1)DIhe  whole  paly  i  hue  Ihb  nsjuirei 

for  ready  money,  at  Ihinx  or  fifty  •«  ml.  under 
IbecDii.    The  itorrdoes  nol  finish  liU  we  come 

■TSS«S„™™.™.„ 

roil)  about  the  metTopolli,  a  ciicumitance  wbicb 

lively  «y^  of  Ibi.  lown-wrtter.    "  While  Ihete  i> 

any  gnsi  to  nibble  upon,  Ihe  rabbits  are  there  j 

wrote  on  diel  in  the  riieo  o(  Eliiabeth,  noUca 
(heir  ^.iful  «pply  "Tor   .he  poor',  maintt- 

Iheir  caves;  sothalwben  Ihe /rrrri  makes accouBl 

qf>v.  in  cbace,  four  disappear.    Then  he  grows 
fierce,  and  teats  open  hi.  own  jaws  lo  suck  Ikiod 

cKilery  being  lo  fimiliaily  diiwn  from  a  ribhit- 

bavliffs,  are  senl  IbRh,  who  lie  scenling  at  every 

comer,  and  with  lerrihie  paws  haunt  every  walk. 
The  biVd  is  scieni  upon  bTlhese  hawk.,  V«  e.t.1. 

judgei,  good   limple  men  1    imagined  that   the 

looked  into,  his  wio^  li^ken,  his  lands  made 

cony-calcber  M  the  bir  wu  i  vairener,  oc  one 

but  M..  or  to  prt»n  i  or  he  seals  to/  bond,  mott- 
gagcf  any  lord^p,  does  anything,  yieldi  anjihing. 

Tbe  rant  term  of '■  wanen"  included  Ihe  younp 
conie,,  ot  balf.rained  pn>dig.l.  of  that  day;  wi.K 

A  little  wav  in,  he  cam  not  how  far  be  wades ; 

the  greater  his  possessions  an,  the  apter  he  is  lo 

J.„it.i  and  undonel"     11  is  eiiSmi  Ihal  the 

and  Ihe  black-lea  of  Ihe  preicnl  day.    The  cony 

who  ioin  him  in  hii  bonds  are  stalk init-borsesi 
the  whole  WSJ  to  begin  and  lo  end  wilb  the  single 

ftui  hn  bii  preient  meiu  good,  end  thcae  lo 

come  great  j  he  i»  very  glad  to  learn  how  money 

modem  dlamatisl  mav  cahibil  in  bii  comedv,  and 

be  sUll  sketching  after  life. 

Keneyl  New  Worid  of  WonU. 

sent,  will  complete  the  pidoR.    The  "Ordiiu- 

npaoir  in  uici1heT«  vfaicb  m 

hidoiaicc  of  ■  puce  ot  twenty'  \ .    ..    _ 

rtriking   fatim   in    IheK    "■OtdiniriF. '■   ■faoweil 

ittdf  H  BOD  ■>  "the  vo]filer  hid  cl»nd  Iht 
benn  "the  (biifflinK  and  cultini 
id  tbe  bonci  rattlinfE  on  the  other." 
w,"  in  (act,  ms  (  ijiinhline^imw, 


likObOKBfK 

doubt  t(  the  I 


t  the  />fI« 


USURERS  OF  TBE  EETESTEESTIT  CESTUST. 


.  ivoUh  hiring  the  bond  duly  d>Kbaf|P^ :  I 
rives  to  get  ■  judgiiKnt,  and  a  ivrjeaiit  wii 
nice  procurer  (he  fortciture  of  the  liond ;  ll 


tyrant  they  miat  obey.  Tlie  Irndcr  j^irU  tremhln, 
and  Admim  hh  vaIouFp  At  length  the  devil  he 
leutd  become!  hit  ctaampMn :  and  Hie  ponr  tall, 
proud  of  hi*  inljmaryi  htdn  nimvlf  under  Ibh 
taf^lt't  winp. 
The  Impoitnr  Atf  clow  by  hi*  dhow,  lake*  ■ 

Ihegiill  U^Kii  for  a  t4'irl  of  hi4  mmlai-hirK  a  tip  oT 
hu  noK,  or  a  trtnh  cl  hia  e>x,  driven  2dl  the  lnt«a 
of  the  guU  into  tbe  pnhnol  tlie  Ktsnd  cenfederacj' 
at  the  OnUninc.    Awl  vhcn  the  Imponor  bu 

kicE<  up  Ihe  table  \  ind  the  Rull  iln'ki  biDuclT 
into  Ihe  cla»  of  Ihe  Ibrlani-liope ;  he  liva  a  the 
mercy  of  bn  late  friendj  the  guM^gtriprr  and  (he 

"  wiiren  "  in  which  the  Audlc}i  were'  tbe  conle- 
But  to  relum  lo  oar  Audley  \  thii  pbiioiophical 


■tanle.  taliMicd  to  bare  them,  vithool  appeanns 
[D  hold  them.  With  Kimt  rondne*<  he  cnnipared 
tii«  "  howb  «i  ioCuit*!  which  hattk  hot  by  eiIc«h 
int{."    To  battle  li  to  be  nouiMKd,  a  term  itill 


enc  of  iharpinB  they  derived 

T  "^K^  h '*"  c?  " 
be  UaArrii  the  ruinei 

rentuna  himieir,  the  f»bty>lDipoTted  ^iaut, 
who  ii  calted  the  gull,  a  tite  ^vaoJfitctrr  i  and 
a  mOTuRoiu  bird  of  prey,  who  n  ilwatt  I»ver4ng 
Tonod  (belablc.il  the  ndJ-fnft«r,  who,  at  a  pinch, 
i>  the  benevoknt  Audley  oTihe  Ordinarie. 
There  wai,  bc«d«,  one  other  chdracler  of  an 

party ,  and  yet,  ID  fact,  "the  Atla»  which  Buppoited 

timet  iii|[nilicantl>-  called  the  imjHi»r. 
lUe pdf i> a yoonK man whiK  fatber.a  cliiien 

tblnnnd  Jnundi  in  tad]'  noney,  lieildn  >c>me 
bnndredft  a  year."  Scoati  are  Kent  out,  and  lie  in 
ambush  ftir  bim;  they  dincover  wliil  "ipMhe- 

a  pipe  of 


Ordinaiiei  a  pli:ihiiD(  ft 


■plrib^  and  Decker  urell  dcvcribcs  (he  lluttcr  of 

themvlvcv  brave ;  the  ffrl^n^tapt,  that  dronpAl 
bcrcKv,  doth  now  gallantly  come  nn ;  the  t^U 
fcalhert  bii  hot ;  the  mvjptekrr  pickn  up  Ihe 
cmmi  i  Ihe  gult-poptr  gravr^  fal  with  p»d  feed- 
ing; and  the  guti  himvir,  a1  whom  every  om-  has 
a  poll,  halh  in  the  end  tcarce  fi^athen  ID  keep  bin 


Cleck,  he  wanu  ! 

'XTi 


I    pmpe*    IhlVugh    V 


t>  of  Ibe  loiingen  of  lba(  da 


part  in  (be  Kcne-    When  nut  tiheu  by  mrpri^ 
on  bb  table  u-uullv  lay  opcnctl  a  fimt  Bilile,  wllh 

him  an  opportunity  of  raltann  at  the  cfwcrnmae 


our  of  a  populaliofi  beyond  the  mcjib  of  »ub^^- 
ence,  and  dreaded  an  inundalionof  mun.gprcailing 

maTrluEe,  with  a  modem  poUlical  economic,  « 
vcTv  ibingerDUa:  bllteriy  cenwrlnn  (he  cicriiy, 
whine  children,  he  mid,  never  thiivcJ,  and  whmc 
widow*  wen  ien  de^ilute.  All  apfj^olicjl  life, 
according  to  Al^ulet,  required  onlv  buokv  meat, 
and  drinll,  (0  h«  lud  (or  Afty  pDun<h  a  year! 
Celibacy,  voluntary  porcrty,  and  all  (he  mortilica- 

prHctbed  by  tmipiiritanaiDuni{bi*mimey-lku^ 

Yet  AUIiltVa  waa  thai  wurtdl}  wi«drim  which 
derives  all  ill  itrength  from  (he  Heakne»n  of 
mankind.      Bvei)'(hing  •«•  ("  be  ohtiined  by 


ciriDiocK  nTCjrBoc'it.vf:. 


wu  hit  bno^ :   hi] 


cjTilctl  Officer  of  thr 


D  ihr  court  of  winb,  with  a  urci 


u  If  tkcy  fill,  ib^  lOH 


be  incurred  (he  lov  of  ibon  loofioat.    on  thmi 
occuian  be  otHerred   (bat  "  Hb  onliurv  loaiei 

jtcqiuinted  the  yoiiPii  rttt  thit  be  would  it  kngih 


look  iMa  (he  holi :  md  then  they  ducrjrercd 
I  old  nt  Rttmg  In  the  midK  of  a  neb  juxinaiia 

^»... .  u— ^  -  ^»...»».  ^p.'»Q ,  — ^ ~.r.r, — .   — fae.    It  B  piotuble  thiE  the  Ion  of  the  tiit 

in  other  courts  more  Ihui  I  gain  in  thu,"    Hehkd    roo.ooof  dbturbcd  hn  dwbtion,  for  he  did  not  Long 
«  once  Hie  meinnen  whKh  would  evade  the  liw,   lun  ire  his  courr  of  w>rd>. 

ud  the  ipiTil  whicb  eouMtniit  It.  |     Such  wu  lhi<n»n.ccnrettinGwudoin  Into  can- 

purlieus  o(   Guildhall,  and  enleird  the  Temple^  I  com.     Engird  in  nn  bonou'rible  caine.  he  bo*- 


linng  for  his  npine.  while   the  tttiwcr   who 

Kuped  the  millno  he  had  raked  mgct&r  owed 
m  oogntttudeal  hiidEilb. 


Some  uvinic  quilitiei,  however,  were  mined   out  feeling  far  more  tlian  i 
with  (he  viciou*  tmei  he  liked  best.     Another  I  we  recofniise  ounelte*  ai 


inioru  are  regulited  iceoTdibE 


menph  lo  Ibc  rage  lor  monei.    H  m  the  "■  court  I  aga  we  live  in;  j-et  •>-steniiof  politlci,«id 


lavTET,  far  b£  vat  not  utisAed  with  htanng,  but 
uuuii»(  hii  client!:  which  be  called  "piocbing 
tt«  caoic  wben  be  poceiired  it  w«i  liHBdaed." 


tbeK  iatatiDe  «truailes.  or.  pcrbapa,  when  they 
baT«  ceiled.  iiBd  our  bearta  are  calm,  we  porare 
the  ecemal  fonv  of  natvie  acting  tn  hurrvmicy: 
then  the  bernc  vfjtuei  uid  private  Boflerinp  of 


CHIDIOCK  TtTCHBOURNE. 


^lUnophB,  bun  i  Cubollc,  HumUy  . . ..  _ 
cmnmimontc  nnijr  i  patbclk  hiunry  of  wmc 
bocAc  HncuaiM  i  whUe  ure.  wirfa  Ihc  umi;  1tc\\a^ 


In  ttw  coonliwr  of  Anltaanr 
SUHbMli  I  *iid  Ai  hhtDiy  o[ 

Eft!    ItoriHt  aw 


HupuSied 


itcnrtfuiE  humncat  novel,  entii 
vbcMT  Btory  ii  Toundcd  <Jt> 
for  being  the  iiidJucI 
01  •  uay,  wiOKni,  ■■  i  ncoUut  nghtlr,  >  lit 
(dminiic  of  km.  OF  the  IninEcn  chine 
ImpHcitnl  Id  IbM  conl^nicy,  lew  wen  of 
Itunp  of  tnoi  onhnirily  ojibic**^  ^^  ''■^^  uhvi 
tiom-  HniDC  hs  Ial4  Ibe  Mory  wlih  hii  m 
|T» :  the  fUUer  aimtlre  eeuv  be  found 
Cimdni ;  but  ttie  die  vaj  yd  naiie,  finin 
chmcm  of  CBtDioci  TitrHior«N>,  a  more 
tersting  cloK. 

■ome  rDathA,wDTthrorTiinkiiii;  wilhlbe  ben 
nther  tb'u  vlth  the  tr^ion  of  Enclind,  hml  bi 
^KtlsRl  on  by  the  nihtiltr  of  Billiiil,  i  diigui 
Jouit  of  nut  inirepidilv  and  tilcnii.  whi 
fTuiHln  nifa  "  1  tilken  pncin  in  g  aoldiet^  hilni  . 
far  thh  TcrotlLe  intriguer  fhui^;ed  nlo  >U  ahapes 

and  took  tnill  lumesi  yet,  with  f"  ■"-     '  - 

tollttcil  Jemii,  he  foil--  "■ "  - 

BaUanI  had  opened  hii 

Be ;  ■  jronth  of  large  fiMtune 

m  tEBTeU^  hit  genera 


f  letter*  took  j^ace,  which  seemed  at  deeply  tic 

jabiogton  were  I'oufin  nf  convenu-il  tempen  il_ 
ftudtei  \   and,  in'  their  ei-ilted  imwiiutiDiii,  they 


n  \   and,  in  their  ei-ilted  imagir 

d  only  viev  in  the  impriiancir  Mary  ot 

.  Jtedr! 
aBtiqullr 
But  theie  euwpititnn  were  inrdy  more  adapted 

Some  of  the  Ictten  to  Hity  were  conve|ed  by  a 
cret  mc^BTD^,  one  in  the  pay  of  Wahingham : 
ben  were  Iwged  in  a  concealed  place,  corered 

prlaon.     All   w«e   ttuKribed   br  Walslnghain 

before  they  reached  Mary.    Bien  the  ipin  of  that 

'  sulir  uatewnan  were  the  companioiH,  o^  the 

vanta,  a[  the  nrrh-convirator  BalLicd  ;  fm  the 

nimcr  teem<  only  to  have  humoured  hit  taue  la 

ining  him  ihRngh  this  eitnripnt  plot.    Yet, 

if  a  plot  of  n  |M<  a  teiture  w*>  not  quite 

pcrilou-,  the  eitnordinary  incl<h.'nt  of  *  piciuiT, 

__ -__  ..  ii^  pcnon, 


politicHl  intriBiiel  The  accomphihed  Balnngtcm 
had  portra>'eiI  the  conwiutun,  him^cll  ilandiuK 
in  the  nidrt  of  them,  that  the  impritoned  queen 
might  thut  have  aome  kind  of  petHnil  an|iunl- 
anee  With  then,  Thert  wjt  at  leA<d  at  much  of 
chivalry  at  of  Machiarelitm  in  thit  erm^trjcy, 
Thb  ver^-  picture,  Ihdiirc  it  WAl  deltvmrd  to  rtanr 
the  Hilnile  Wiilsinghim  had  copkil,  to  uhibli 

Houbraken  in  hii  portrait  of  WaMngham  ha> 
,ntnidnced  in  tbe  rignette  the  mcioent  or  thit 

Sicture  being  dwwn  fu  Bliubctb;  a  eirt-um^ance 
aplniy  cbaiactL-rittlc  of  the  geniannf  tbu  CTnifly 


l^blu.  they  put  one  more  ambiguous : 

Qnrmumhcc  alio  properantibut  ?" 

are  the  thlnp  to  men  battening  to  ajwthetie 


ipir^er  was  tu(u-n:d  In  be  mlently  malnrct 
iciently  to  be  ended.    Once  >hc  pcm-ivcd  ii 

..,j  1 — ,. ,: ..  reprtmjiidinE  hcf  tiptaiii 

-, jOHgh  to  meet  the  con' 

r,  that  "be  bad  not  a  nun  in  hii 


of  the  guardi,  bnd  e 


It  H  in  the  progroH  of  tlie  Iriil  thit  the  hInorT 
■nd  Ibe  ftdingi  of  these  wondroui  vonth*  appear. 
In  ihoM  timei,  when  the  ecnemnKnt  of  the 
caunliv  jet  fell  itself  uosettleiU  and  mercy  did  not 
lit  A  the  judaraent-Kat.  even  one  of  the  judita 
could  not  ror^n  from  being  adei'tcd  ak  the 
presence  of  to  galUnt  a  lund  ii<  (he  privinen  n 
■'■-  '■--  '^h  Ial]ard,lillinl'"  tbv  judge  ex- 


bimsell  eommaiuU  our  rewrl,  .iltbouuh 
me  him  our  esteem  i  for  be  lelt  some  com- 
punction at  the  tnidcal  execniinni  wbicli  were  » 
follow,  and  "wiihni  all  the  blime  mii^ht  reit  nn 
sold  the  shedding  of  hb  blood  be  the  uvinn 


ftienil.  Tor 

for  in  succ ..„ _ 

"the  haughty  and  amhltiuui  mind  of  Anthony 
BalHngton  would  be  the  detmietion  if  hinielf 


140                                      CHWIOCS  TITCRBOVRSB.                                             '■ 

to  employ  hii  own   Uagiugc.  "1  cUcS  burk  my 
tcninis  leain  toi^R,  wiTbaBin  lo  keep  bouse 
■giio  more  froMylbiD  cvn  1  did,  onjybcciiw 

his  taste,  and  t  nrord  in  dM  note  >  anne  of  Ibii 

nature.*    The  present   one  was   fOD  ofhoTfon. 

(him  Ihe  gallowi  to  be  emboirel™:  B>Ul«tm 

uil  willing  ro  keep  him  ihout  home."    Hiimj 

aeidily  garing  on  that  vniety  of  toitores  wWch 

the  others  averted  their  faces,  fervenUv  pnying' 

myxlf,  UKl  to  diKorei  Tom  &jji>bmy.lhe  ben 

liM  that  the  nobinu  of  these  youth,  sullned ; 

»d  to  undo  m>-*lf  rod  mv  poHerilv  for  erer.' 

and  Ihe  mty  which  inch   criminab  had  eicited 

WhucTTT  the  |)OliIii:il  (Buitt  may  detmninc  on 

amona   Ihc    nxctators    eiidently   weakened    the 
sense  of  their  political  crime ;  the  ■ilemnit>'.  not 

in  the  he«l.    The  principle  ol  Ibe  greilcS  a 
republic)  wM  lo  tuffcr  nothinn  to  e..«  in  com- 

lightened    politician,    commanded    thai    on    the 

ptiMonwilh  in  own  ambition  [   but  the  Homui 

— Acorher  of  Ibe  eonipiiaton  replied,  "  Far  flvini 

•RainsI  Iniion  should  noi  commence  (ill  aftei 
fieir  deatli- 

.w.y  with  my  Ihend,  I  folnlled  the  put  if  . 

f^  h«  frie^'ip!^"'^°bTOkenhi..'li.^»^e 
to  hi>  «™reign.  he  bowed  bi>  heid  «rf  coo- 

grneioiu   b)ood,    was   Chidioci  Ti  rcnaoL-iixi, 

Ined,  "Tbeinn   1   hiyt   olTcbded." — Anorher, 
uked  why  lie  hut  fled  into  the  woods,  where  he 

•  Let  not  the  delicate  female  slait  ftom  the 

agony,  as  she  ™jponed  on  her  lap  ^e  bead  of 
the  miserable  suffcier.    This  account  was  drawn 

been  wilne«d  U  the   btr  imong  u  mioy  cn- 

ladT,  who.  amidst  the  horrid  esecution.  could 

miiuil.    Their  gre»l  mindi  letmcd  to  b»ie  re- 

itill  hn  own  feelings  in  the  iltempt  to  loflen 

The  subject  WIS  one  ot  the  eneculed  Jesuits, 

theit  Eimily  ind  (beii   cRdiioo.    One   in  the 

Hu^  Gtren,  who  often  went  by  the  name  of 
Ferdinand   Brooks,  according  to  the  cmtnm  of 
Ihese  people,  who  disguised  iTienwi™  hv  double 

ptoleclion  .  beloi-ed  wife;  ™iher  i  deitiinte 

•iitcr :  but  not  imong  the  lent  unent  of  Ihcii 
nippUcatiani.  was  one  that  their  creditor*  might 

names  :  he  sufliered  in  1641 ;  and  this  narrative  is 

taken  fmm  the  curious  and  scarce  folios  of  Dodd, 

menlof  Iheir  .fcirs  >>  cunoui  ind  .imple.    "U 

or  tor  want  of  a  sulBcienl  pmence  of  mind,  had 

I^of  ™;«r'bS°ti!°I^  mnc/a™  ^c 

mom  owin^  to  me  i  1  b«ech'  Ihit  mv  deba  may 

and  able  to  sit  upright  upon  the  ground,  viewing 

be  paid  wiih   thai  which    is  owing  to   me." 

Ihe  crowd  thai  stood   abonl   him.    The   person 

Another  pnyed  tot  a  pardon ;  Ibe  judge  compli- 

mented him.  thai  -  he  was  one  who  might  ha« 

he  cannot  obtain  it.— "  Then,"  said  Ihe  piiwner. 

bath  of  mine,  miv  beEivered  lo  my  bimbcr  lo 
pay  my  debts. ■■—"How  much  an  ftiy  debu?" 

i'!3'A^r^'"th^"]™?on'"hi',  T^f .  ^'-rtl^'^ 

barbel  immediately  fell  to  woA,  ripped   up  his 
belly,  and  Uid  the  t\.p<  of  skin  on  both  sVdes; 

the  pooc  gentleman  being  so  prese—  to  himself  as 

That  nothing  fniEbl  be  wanling  m  complete 
the  cauitTDphe  of  their  ud  nory.  our  ivmpttbv 

youths  had  a  tnB  then,  intolerable  lo  their  social 

During  this  operation,  Mn.  Eliaabeth  WiUoughhi 
(Ihe  HTiIer  of  this],  kneeled  at  Ihe  Je>n.t-t  head. 

and  held  it  fust  beneath  ber  b.-indt.    His  lace  was 

coiercilvithathicksweati  the  blood  i^aueJ  from 

IceliuES.    'The  temtic  procen  of  necuting  tru- 

with  so  in^^bnt.^al  '£c  asnires  usVie  c^i*^ 

bas  only  been  aboliAed  very  recmily.     1  muS 
not  refnin  fRnn  painting  thii  scene  of  bkiod; 

Karce  endure  ber  hand  upon  it.    The  barber  was 

pen  imidH  tEesc  circumstantial  hanofv 

the  duty  of  an  hiflotian  mnrt  be  sererei  Ihan 

CBIDICCK  TITTHBOrnSE. 


k»  hjn  aho  iwisenfll  J  nn-rc  |>mi<iuv 

uH  iK-em,  romrivd  M  vat  uinr 
inili(^dV4  hi*  iBmirts  ivnuXv  ih 
fnujihi  vith  the  meUivhiilv  phlli^ 


;  the  hom*  of  nhnv  vi 
-KdnbccBlncdiaiotbccoiHpiiicy.    Rowtn 
Inri/ be  pain  iMa  ihc  domcak  WH,  unliba  bu 
«ife,hiicUM,*ii4bbitalcnl«Dd  even  hli  ta- 

ia  fninch, "  f  nenMi  vlulh  bmutjhl  nu  tu  thri  •" 

"^CoinitivnKB,  mil  my  deir  fnenili,  vc»  npcct 

ldioiiUi|Kik  mnelbiagi  lim  ibMlinlDr,  ud 

bnn^t  hither,  lor  tbit  it  biili  been  rcrealed 


uahivtT'  e)OK  o(  the  life  pf  hiHi  i 
viib  ia  the  pKHlipHn  at  hli  ferln 
of  hi*  mtenei'l,  r 


'owflre 


:nied  lo  be  a 


lea  in  my  bead  than  nallm  tf  ilMi. 

I  wu  acciuaiBtcd  irith  the  ai'Hoa, 
nav  jiutly  eon|HR  mf  eKale  to  that 
wlio  ouid  not  (biMin  im  Ihiuf  fir- 


.  like  Adani,  we  Bed  into  Ihe  wonb  I 
my  he  your  joy,  yet  mii  ymw  «nlle>  with  lean 

frma  tvim  teMfnd  jrari  l^vt  tin  Cn^uiil,  uni 
iltlmJ  till  Ml  wr  ntWaruw.  /  *«v  a  wtft  " 
.1 ..  _J  _£f_„.j  .i  .?-„:  I.nl._-l^.J_ 


thejotll  hnpc  to  enjoy." 

-.._ ne  faj^  MhlnHicil  a  letter  to  hit  "ilei 

ie  Acnet,"  tlic  nltrht  beiorv  be  Hiflrrei],  whic 
liKovered  among  Iba  Harlcian  HSU,*    llorei 


i-mpathy  la  Ihe  trtiffu  iMtmtiP 

(1..  «hi( 

A  Icttervrhlen  hrCKnon-K  Tkh 
nieht  hefoR  he  mOereJ  de^iUi .  n 

acan  Ih 
i>  lin  nik 

■'  To  Ihe  mort  InvinK  wife  allw.  1  rmnnmul  n 
nto  htr,  and  Oem;  (i.-O  In  We-K  bcrvilh  a 

ptoi  ctimWe,  fnr  t  hofe  hi  Jnn  <i>rii.I  Ih 
iDining  to  n  the  face  or  my  maker  and  R 

in  oUchaiii 
d,  for  without  ^m  nu  tjot^ihiA 


too  Unle  lor  benclfe,  M  add  a  ruillicr 
>  her.    I>cers  wife  loTgbt  inr,  that 


en.  Tbrr*  be  lertain  diHiu  that  I  (iwi 
cause  I  know  luN  the  onfci  n*  the  i—-  " 
hath  taken  fiom  me  all,  (wftiiril 


benctii'  ne'herdn.^l  iV  thne  foil 


adniie  thee  to 
.  whcn- 
ukr.     I 


ir  the  boniiur  or  U<id  ami  ease  or  Iheir  i>nih>,  u. 

ike  can  or  Ihem  u  they  tnaj',  and  eiiKilally 

care  or  my  liilcrt  brln|[lng  Dp  Ihe  bunlien  ii 

laidE  en  nicm.  Now,  SveeMheek,  vhri  I 
tu  hentow  on  thee,  a  small  jnynture,  a  Mna 
cnmpeiue  for  Ihy  deKrvlnar,  IIkk  hf 
G>llnvringe  to  be  thine  owne.  Ond  uC  hl<  la 
Eondneiu  itin  thee  Rrace  alwaic*  In  nmuin  bla 
mie  and  (Sitafiill  Mrvanl.  dut  lfaivu||h  Ihe  niniD 
orbli  bitlei  and  bented  pa»iun  Ihnu  mjht  Ininne 
In  Rcnd  time  or  hit  kingdom  vllb  Ihe  blrned 
women  In  haren.  May  ihe  Hnly  (IhOM  comtii  ~ 
ilK-*wiihallDccvHarH.iiatthewealthnf  thy  ui 


^,                            ELIZABETH  ASP  HER  PASLrAMEXT.                                   \ 

■■VBKSES 
Hade  bi-citiniocaTicH>Boam  of  hlmwlle  in  the 
Tower,  the  nighl  bdbte  be  lullemi  death,  who 

IJS6. 
My  prime  of  sBnth  is  bul  a  fm»l  of  (area, 
ily  feast  cfm  is  but  a  *sh  of  pain, 

ASrairmy  goodn  is  but  vain  hope  of  gain. 
The  day  i.  fici.  and  vel  1  saw  no  sun. 
And  now  I  live,  and  now  my  life  IS  done  1 
My  irring  is  past,  and  yet  il  hath  not  sprung. 

The  fruit  it  dead,  and  yet  the  leaves  are  green. 
My  1-oulh  is  past,  and  yet  I  am  hut  young, 

1  saw  Ihe  world,  anJ  ,*t  1  was  not  seen ; 
My  Ihtead  is  cut,  »•!  vet  it  is  not  spun, 
A^d  now  I  live,  and  nbw  my  life  is  done  < 
I  soughl  for  death,  and  found  It  in  the  wombe, 

I  looki  (or  life,  and  yet  it  was  a  shade. 
I  trade  the  groand,  and  knew  il  was  my  lombe. 

And  now  1  dye,  and  now  I  am  but  made. 
The  glasa  is  full,  and  yet  my  das  it  run  i  ^ 

ELIZABETH  AND  HER  PARLIAMENT. 

TM.s™  Ii»  w«i  a  remarkable  period  ,n  the 
domesiic  annals  of  our  great  Eluakihi   Ihcn, 
for  a  roomeni,  brake  forth  a  noble  simrale  be- 
isFten  the  freedom  of  Ihe  subject  and  ihe^ignily 

One  of  Ihe  popular  grievances  of  her  gforioiu 
n^ign  was  the  maiden  nale  in  whkb  the°  queen 

disputed  sunessioD ;  and  it  became  nKcsaary  lo 
allay  that  ferment  which  eiisied  among  all  pat- 

hereafter  lo  ascend  the  throne.     The  hinh   of 

Mary  of  ScotUnd ;  and  men  of  ihe  most  oppo-i.e 

settlemenl  of  the  succession.    This  was  a  suhiecl 
moatpainful  to  the  thnughls  of  ELIuaETH-,  she 

tising  every  imaginable  artilin  to  eiade  il. 

pa^  over  bv  our  hialoiians.    Camden,  however, 
hints  al  It.  when  he  places  among  olher  popular 

tlagi,  for  1   know   not  wbal  t^malo  intirmily." 

The  queen's  physician  thus  incurred  Ihe  ndiiim 
of  the  nation  (oi  Ihe  IntegHly  of  Ins  conduit :   he 
well  knew  how  precious  was'hcr  l.fe.* 

This  fact,  on«  known,  throws  a  new  light  av«t 
her  conduct  i   the  ambiguous  uprmsons  which 

Uont.  are  no  longer  mnterious.    she  was  always 
declaring,  that  she  knew  her  tubjccu  did  not 
love  her  so  liltte,  as  to  wish  lo  bury  ber  beftn 
her  lime  J  even  in  the  Icllci  1  shall  now  give  we 

marriage,  she  said,  was  "  asking  nolbing  lest  than 
wishii^  her  lo  dig  her  grave  bcftne  she  was  dead." 
Conscious  of  the  danger  of  her  life  by  marriage, 

tbiooc,  that  "she  would  liie  and  die  a  maiden 
queen :"  hut  she  alterwardt  discovered  the  political 

rU'rraBaiireiircTi'.HadifVi.tlpeo.i'     She  bad  a 
piincely    bead-piece  1       Eliubeth    allosred    her 

of  marriage   she   received   from    crowned   beads  i 
and  all  Ihe  coouetnes  lod  the  cijoUngs,  so  often 
and  so  fully    recorded,   with   which    she    freely 

All  Iheie  uere  merely  polltli:  id  •rtiticet.  to  conceal 

At  the  birth  of  }anietl.,»C»iDiN  savi,  "the 
sharp  and   hot  Spirits  broke    out,  accusing   tht 
qocen  that  (he  wai  ne^lecling  her  countiy  and 

The  peen  united  with    Ihe  commoners.     Tbe 

mercy.    It  wasa  moment  of  highfermcnt.    Some 

of  Ihe   boldesi,  and  some  of   Ihe   most    Brili<ta 
Biniils  were  at  work ;  and  they,  with  the  malice  oi 

the  soccewon ;   one  was  not  to  be  ha J  wilboul 
lI'  Mm"t  *'fL7^,  Th?n'X'"p5iih'"mh^ 

of  lhe"okr  edltMnTtf   ^r  w5in'"ltswWA't 
Foema,  bul  couhl  never  have  been  wiillcn  by 

a    celebrated    wTiler  srould    insert    any   fugitive 

which   was    ccnain    of   securing   Ihe    readers 
favour.    The  enliie  poem  in  every  line  ccho«  ihe 

wiih'^l  the  biwmiof  life  and^'nilisaWt' bim 

•  Foreign  authors  rto  bad  an  intcrcoiirse  wtth 
the  English  court  seem  to  have  been  teller  In- 
formed, or  at  least  found  themselves  under  leH 

cleared  upi   and  at  Iciulh  ;n  one  of  ou'  ovn 

writers,  WHi-riata,  in  his  Alary   Qum  tl  S.-MI 

intelU^bie  :  he  has  preset  [kt  fanciful  Ayk. 

ELIZABETH  AXD  HER  PARLIAMENT. 


hoKily  infijrmati 


TiciiUn,  wbich  octunvd  p  lltUu  hoforci  ind  wuidi 

u       "  On  Wcilnimlay  the  iMb  nf  the  (imeni  nionih, 

— , , _ — c    EbeccnnplnilkTor  the  <)u«D'9LK>iuchoJd*  moved, 

rine  dc  HcdiiisaiHlhcr  son  Chuici  IX.  wished,   in  the  lower  taonse  at  pHlument,  uhcrc   the 

who  vm  KTvIng  »  French  spies,    [n  »  privite   4ub4Jy;t  takinjEintu  coitiidention.  imanc;  other 
eolkctlDn,  which  eoiubtn  of  Iwo  or  xUnx  hnn-   thLnBti,  Ihat  Ibe  i^neen  bud  emptied  the  ctclie<|iu;r, 


■^^  Dtlj^nil  ktlera  of  Chulei  I 

UH  WlDICIS,  HlJdhV  m.,  fend   MARY  of  ScotlaiuL, 

tK;  I  find  two  dopeldin  of  thU  French  ambbSA- 

whit  render!  Ibem   nH>re  curious  h,  that  the 

impcrfccrU'  given  i  ii  Sir  tEymondv  D'Ewcfl'i  Jouraai^ 
the  onlv  Rwutce  open  to  ni-    Sir  Aymonds  com. 

moiu,  who  iodeed  i.-ems  lo  hive  eicerted   his 
ni-glijienie,  whenever  it «»  found  most  agmsUc 

of  which  the  preictit  dopatch  fiiniishes  ■  Livdy 

of  (he  iDids  of  the  council,  heU  in  the  i|uecai 

tftc  whale' 

■inn,  iKl  of  licr  n 

preaTly  iDerj^  on  itie  occafkn.  ^Ik  ci 
Hilier  to  be  urged  on  llio^  point? ;  «h 
with  gHat  animnlion.    "Hitherto  yaw  h 


V  »  trull  1  beliere.     Liy  y-aat  banit  on 

of  vou,  and  do  your  own  duty 

I  well  In  the  Late  win,  as  In  the  . 

n  ships  at  Ka,  Cor  the  proleclion  of  (i 

lupported  without  the  aid  of  her  good  subjects^ 
even  Iwfore  file  retfuired  it.  in  c«uldira1ifin  Ihal, 

"The  com ptiolier  having  finished,  one  of  tbe 
deputies,  a  conniry  gentLeman,  rose  in  reply-  He 
laid,  that  he  saw  no  occasion,  nor  any  preying 

she  had  undertaken  Ibetn  Irom  herself,  as  she  had 
thought  proper ;  not  for  the  defence  of  her  king. 
dam,  nor  Cor  tlic  adrantage  of  her  subjects;  but 

argent,  and  lir  more  necessary  to  examine  con- 
ceinint;  ibis  campaign;  which  was,  bow  the 
money  laised  by  the  late  subsidy  bad  been  spent ; 
and  that  eiei;  one  who  had  had  the  handlini  of  it 
•houhl  produce  their  accounli,  that  it  might  be 


that  tbe  French  amliassadnr  hid 


«Je»ly| 


afterwir.b  ri|^t 

™i"he"idla  ""u  Sc^dicqui  n  la  h«ik," 
Kdward  Bogers,  comptroller  01  her 
■"^uschaU.   TlK  motion  was  Kcooded 


-^ *  The  original  u 

.1  of  the  neglect  Queen  Mary ,  loli  poui  liure." 

■  "fe  Ijcing  coniideredvctyun-       1  Tt'    — ■' 

rs  of  a   court   to  |  sir  Syn 


by  Sir  William  Cecil,  who  entered  more  largely 
into  the  particulara  of  the  queen'*  charges,  in- 
curred In  the  defi:nce  of  Km-Havn,  in  I'rance, 
the  repain  of  her  navy,  and  Ibe  Itiih  war  with 

part  of  the  secret  hi^nry  of  Ktii^arrii 


•  A  curious  trail  of  the  neglect  Queen  Mary  p  soli  poui  liure." 
experienced,  whose  life  Ijcing  considered  vcty  un-       1  This  Boitleman't  name  doea  noi  appear  In 
certain,  sent  all   Ibe  inHigocrs  of  a   court   to|  sir  Symonds  D'Bwes's  ioumab-    Hons- La  Mothe 

cf  staie-imprifonnient  at  Halheld.  I  Irary  to  the  custom  of  hb  nation,  of  wilting  an 

t  This  dc^tch  is  a  meagre  account,  written  English  name  somewbat  lecognisable ;  for  Edward 
before  the  arabaaador  obtidncd  all  the  information  Basche  was  one  of  the  general  purve)ors  of  the 
the  preient  letter  ditplajl.  The  chief  particulara  rictuaUiiM  of  the  queen's  ship.,  iJM.aa  1  Hnd  in 
1  biie  fntani  above,  |  the  LanH^wne  MSS.  vol.  KVi.  art.  69. 


.MMi 


244 


ELIZABETH  AND  JIKli  PAIiLIAMEyZ 


at  \  Hst  charges,  and  was  so  dally,  to  maintain  a 
great  numl)cr  of  ships,  but  also  'in  building  new 
ones ;  repeating  what  the  comptroller  of  the 
household  had  said,  that  they  ought  not  to  wait 
till  the  queen  asked  for  supplies,  but  should  make 
a  voluntary  oiFcr  of  their  ser\ices. 

"  Another  country  gentleman  rises  and  replies, 
that  the  said  Basche  had  certainly  his  reasons  to 
speak  for  the  queen  in  the  present  case,  since  a 
great  deal  of  her  majesty's  monies  for  the  providing 
of  ships  passed  through  his  hands ;  and  the  more 
he  consumed,  the  greater  was  his  profit.  Accord- 
ing to  his  notion,  there  were  but  too  many  pur- 
veyors in  this  kingdom,  whose  noses  had  grown  so 
long  that  they  stretched  from  London  to  the 
west.*  It  was  certainly  proper  to  know  if  all  they 
levied  by  their  commission  for  the  present  cam- 
paign was  entirely  employed  to  the  queen's  proht. 
— Nothing  further  was  debated  on  that  dav. 

"  The  Friday  following,  when  the  subject  of 
the  subsidy  was  reneweoTone  of  tlie  gentlemen- 
deputies  showed,  that  the  queen  having  prayed  t 
for  the  last  sul>sidy,  had  promised,  and  pledged 
lier  faith  to  her  subjects,  tnat  after  that  one,  she 
never  more  would  rai%  a  single  penny  on  them  : 
and  promised  even  to  free  them  from  the  wine- 
duty,  of  which  promise  they  ought  to  press  for 
the  perfonnance ;  adding,  tnat  it  was  far  more 
necessary  for  this  kmgdom  to  speak  concerning 
a  heir  or  successor  to  the  crown,  and  of  her  mar- 
riage, than  of  a  subsidy. 

"The  next  day,  which  was  Saturday  the  19th, 
they  all  began,  with  the  exception  cf  a  sini^le 
voice,  a  loud  outcry  for  the  succession.  Amidst 
these  confu>ed  voices  and  cries,  one  of  the  coun- 
cil prayed  them  to  have  a  little  patience,  and 
with  time  they  should  be  satisfied ;  but  that,  at 
this  moment,  other  matters  pressed, — it  was 
necessary  to  satisfy  the  queen  about  a  subsidy. 
*  No  !  No  !'  cried  the  deputies,  *  we  are  expressly 
charged  not  to  grant  anything,  until  the  queen 
resolvedly  answers  that  which  we  now  ask :  and 
we  require  you  to  inform  her  majesty  of  our  in- 
tention, which  is  such  as  we  are  commanded  to, 
by  all  the  towns,  and  subjects  of  this  kingdom, 
whose  deputies  we  are.  We  further  reauirc  an 
act,  or  acknowledgment,  of  our  having  uelivered 
this  remonstrance,  that  we  may  satisfy  our  re- 
spective towns  and  counties  that  we  nave  per- 
formed our  charge.'  They  alleged  for  an  excuse, 
that  if  they  had  omitted  any  part  of  this,  their 
heads  tifould  annver  for  it.  We  shall  see  what 
will  come  of  this.t 

"l\iesday  the  aand,  the  principal  lords,  and 
the  bishops  of  London,  York,  Winchester,  and 

*  In  the  original,  '*  lis  auoient  le  nez  si  longqu'il 
s'estendoit  despuis  Londres  jusques  au  paysd'West." 

t  This  term  is  remarkable.  In  the  original, 
*•  La  Ro>'ne  ayant  impetre,"  which  in  Cotgfave's 
Dictionary,  a  contemporary  work,  is  explained  by, 
— "  To  get  by  praier,  obtain  by  sute,  compass  by 
intreat}',  procure  by  request."  This  significant 
expression  conveys  the  real  notion  of  this  vene- 
rable Whig,  before  Whiggism  had  received  a  de- 
nomination, and  formed  a  party. 

t  The  French  ambassador,  no  doubt,  flattered 
himself  and  his  master,  that  all  this  "  pariancc " 
could  only  close  in  insurrection  and  civil  war. 


Durham,  went  together,  after  dinner,  from  tbc 
parliament  to  the  queen,  whom  they  found  in  her 
I>rivatc  apartment.  There,  after  those  who  were 
pre!«ent  nad  retired,  and  they  rem^uoed  akne 
with  her,  the  great  treasurer,  having  the  pK* 
ccdcnce  in  age,  spoke  first  in  the  name  of  all.  He 
opened,  by  saying,  that  the  comm  ens  had  ie> 
(|uircd  them  to  unite  in  one  sentiment  and  atone- 
ment, to  solicit  her  majesty  to  give  her  answer 
as  she  had  promised,  to  appoint  a  succesBor  to 
the  crown ;  declaring  it  was  necessity  that  con- 
pellcil  them  to  urge  this  point,  that  they  mi^ 
prox  ide  against  the  dangers  which  mig^t  happen 
to  tlio  kingdom,  if  they  continued  without  the 
security  they  asked.  This  had  been  the  cutom 
of  h.T  royal  predecessors,  to  provide  long  befoct- 
hand  for  the  succession,  to  preserve  the  peace  of 
the  kingdom  ;  that  the  commons  were  all  of  oee 
opinion,  and  so  resolved  to  settle  the  succeanon 
before  they  would  speak  about  a  subsidy,  or  any 
other  matter  whatever,  that,  hitherto,  nothii^ 
but  the  most  trivial  discussions  had  paacd  m 
parlinment,  and  so  great  an  assembly  was  ooljr 
wasting  their  time,  and  saw  themselves  entirely 
useless.  Tlicy,  however,  supplicated  her  majesty, 
that  she  would  be  pleased  to  declare  her  wUl  on 
this  point,  or  at  once  to  put  an  end  to  the  pulia- 
ment,  so  that  every  one  might  retire  to  his  home. 

"  The  Duke  of  Norfolk  then  spoke,  and,  after 
him,  cver\'  one  of  the  other  lords,  according  to 
his  rank,  holding  the  same  language  in  strict  con* 
fonnity  with  that  of  the  great  treasurer. 

*'  The  queen  returned  no  softer  answer  than 
she  had  on  the  preceding  Saturday,  to  anodier 
party  of  the  same  company;  sa>in'g  that,  *The 
commons  were  very  rebellious,  and  that  thev  had 
not  dared  to  have  attempted  such  things  cTuring 
the  life  of  her  father :  that  it  was  not  for  them 
to  impede  her  affairs,  and  that  it  did  not  become  a 
subject  to  compel  the  sovereign.  What  they 
asked  was  nothing  less  than  wishing  her  to  dig 
her  grave  before  sne  was  dead.'  Addressing  her* 
self  to  the  lords,  she  said, '  My  lords,  do  what  you 
will ;  as  for  mx-self,  I  shall  do' nothing  but  accord- 
ing to  my  pfeasure.  All  the  resolutions  which 
you  may  make  can  have  no  force  without  my 
consent  and  authority:  besides,  what  you  desire 
is  an  affair  of  much  too  great  importance  to  be 
declared  to  a  knot  of  hare-brains.*  I  will  take 
council  with  men  who  understand  justice  and  the 
laws,  as  I  am  deliberating  to  do :  I  will  choose 
half  a  dozen  of  the  most  able  I  can  find  in  my 
kingdom  for  consiUtation,  and,  after  having  heanl 
their  advice,  I  will  then  discover  to  you  my  will.* 
On  this  slie  dismissed  them  in  great  anger. 

"  By  this,  sire,  your  majesty  may  perceive  that 
this  ({ueen  is  every  day  tr>-ing  new  inventions  to 
escape  from  this  passaj^  (that  is,  on  fixing  her 
marriage,  or  the  succession).  She  thinks  that  the 
Duke  of  Norfolk  is  principally  the  cause  of  this 
insisting.t  which  one  penon  and  the  other  stand 

*  In  the  original,  "  A  ung  tas  de  cenreaulx  si 
legiercs." 

t  The  word  in  the  original  is,  tnsistemc*;  an 
expressive  word  as  used  by  the  French  ambassador ; 
but  which  Boyrr,  in  hu  Dictionary,  doubts  whether 
it  l)c  French,  although  he  gives  a  modem  authority : 
the  present  is  much  more  ancient. 


ANECDOTES  OF  PB/XCE  HENSY. 

has  fumbhctl  Ihc  )iit>|«(  or 
Prince  Henry  bu  proved  i 


end  in  potitif  al  BhipvT«lu.  when  the  bead  of  thi; 

Sown  a  pmhitH(i<m  lo  the  house  From  H\  detwie 

in  Ihc  commons  >nd  language  aa  bold  aa  her  Ovn 
royal  ny1e»  ihe  knew  how  to  revoke  the  cxaaperat- 
ing  pnihibttion.  She  even  cbirmeii  them  by  the 
manner  i  for  the  commona  returned  her  **  prayera 

obscrva  Sir  iymoaii  D'Bwea. 

The  wijdom  of  ELtuBim,  howeter,  did  bm 
wcdien  her  intrepidity.  The  ttruggiewaa  glorious 
for  bmh  peniesi  bui  bow  ihe  eKaped  thTooj(h 

once  nised  and  quelled,  Ibe  aweerncM  and  the 

^  her  noble  ipeech  in  cJodnK  the  ptrilament,  are 
told  by  HvHE  with  the  luud  felicity  of  his  nar- 


premature  death  wv  lamented  by  fbe  people,  i 
well  as  by  poets  and  historiuu,  unque^Iionabl 
wonid  hare  proved  an  heroic  and  military  chj 


the  diyi  of  Agincourt  and  Creiar  bad  been 
.r-. — J   ^^  Henry  IX.  had  rivalled  Henry  V 


narkaUe  that  Princ 


rordedf  thouah  In  a  eomplimenlary  venc,  and 

igliih  onei  al  Dulwich  CaUege.    Merlin,  in  a 
uque  by  Jomon,  addrew3  Prince  Henry, 
"  Yet  re«a  that  other  thunderbolt  o(  war, 

A  youlh  who  periihed  In  his  eighteenth  year 


qualitkiof  his  mind  coiteaponded  wi 
length,  the  vieiim  of  love  and  ambi 


enterpTiict.  which,  by  their  f 
a  jealous  aoveiviBB,  aiaunie  I 
of  a  eoDsplraqr. 
t  Hune,  TOU  V.  cb.  jg  1 1 


a  Ihem 


Ibis  eatraoTdinary 

period.    Authentic , 

a  child  baa  aeldnm  ■  biogra^r  by  hit  side.  We 
hare  Indeed  been  receittly  treated  wilb  "  Anec- 
dotes of  Cbildien,"  in  Ibe  "Practical  Edncation" 
of  tne  lit^iry  family  of  Ibe  Edgeworth*  -,  but  we 
may  presume,  that  as  Mr.  Edgeworth  delighted 

antonutje  Infanls,  poets,  and  metapbyaiclaiu,  of 


singular  In  a  child :  tomethmg  in  th 
Ibis  early  character  may  be  altri 
Countea  of  Mar.  ThU  lady  had  b 
of  lamest.,  and  »>  bet  care  Ihe  kinf 
prince.    She  ii  described  In  a  mai 


At  the  age  of  live  ycus  the  prince  was  consigned 
Id  hii  tutor,  Mr.  (ahetwardi  Kr]  Adam  Newton,  a 
man  of  learning  ai>d  capacity,  whom  Ibe  prince  at 

length  chine  fOr  bis  secretary.  The  severity  of  the 
old  counlew,  and  the  strict  discipline  of  his  tutor, 

high  degree. 

The  pnnce  eaily  attracted  Ihe  attention  and 
excited  the  hopes  of  those  who  were  about  hit 

that  he  was  "  an  attendant  upon  the  prince's 
penon,  aince  he  was  under  the  we  of  three  yean, 
having  always  diligently  observed  his  disposition. 


d  lor  Ihe  prince,  Henry  conUI  not 

._  -  bit  fifleentn  ycari  this  manuscript 

•aa  evidently  compoicd  earlier :  so  that  the  lauit 


1  show  by  an  unit}'  0 


of  the  princely  be 


childhood  rarely  wept,  and 
t  a  groan.     W^en  a  boy 


ASECDOTES  OF  PBIXCE  HESRY. 


p«g»,  Kniy  repTQTcJ  fab  pocrllc  tr 
TOU  bccALuc  you  uT  my  lonl't  ton  ■! 
bDf.  if  vmL  be  DM  better  coDditknii 


Ita  Ihc  ihipe  dT  the  lop  be 


II  fincKullyHnick  him 


EnDlinJ  jt  a  time  vhcn  Ihc  mutiut  jeiliHuie* 
of  ibe  two  luthiDt  were  mnDing  ^  hiph,  the  boy 
onrn  hMl  Dcci^ob  to  expicM  Itie  otiify  of  ailec- 


inell.     When  »kcd__whM   ImlruiBnl  he  likeSj      ttoj  T>T>ii«e  mihi  nollo  diicrimiBe  jgetnt, 
Ihat  none  cDuId  diiKe  with  moR  Kn«.  but  Ihat  !  (he  bov  uid  he  would  nuke  uk  of  Ihit  icne  for 
be  nerer  dellghled  Is  duKhig :  Khlkhi'prrfiimu:il  I  hinnclf,  Kilh  a  ili^ihl  ilicution.  Ihut— 

by  hl<  fvuler  to  hintUe  Aiut  low  the  pike,  u>  [  In  mother  pin  of  the  Bntoh  dom&Dioib,  and  Ibe 
mifch  indbsMhiinKjnniniflecteditvkrrtute- .  inongpriiKe  ippeuilo  hue  been  regnnieil  --' 
lines,  icrording  la  Ibe  nunlneti  of  Ibov  ili)^ : .  great  ufection  bi'  the  Welih  i  fot  when  onci 

(Mhinni  yet  ID  ihow  (bat  thii  diilike  irat  ftom   ihonl?  the  louilierpointed  with  lei  ityiliw 

woiilJ  lomolmn  KMmc  it  only  to  LiaDb  «il.    Iht  onncily  boy,  "how  I  wijl  tboot  it  tt" 

nbKTiing  tliil  Ihey  tnold  never  he  aood  xildien '  who  had  Ijken  ■  brw  can  ' 

unhm  me*  ilwuf  kept  Inie  order  wd  meaiuR  in    hi^  beift  Hhl  hit  head,  mi 

1   then    moil  Iber  >to,"  cried    kin^  that  Ibi  ■ 

ielhnnghat    - 
teedom  of  ut 
.  .  ..e  preferred  u 

»f>il.  be  teplied, ''Miull  ride   olF  the  heiii  of 

prote^eJjgaiiut  It,  "I  cntKH  mind  Ibat  now," 
4ld  the  TDyil  ben-  facelioualr, "  Ibou^  Ihey  thoilld 
bare  run  u  tin  ^elher  in  icy  belly." 

■epnrled  lo  Henrr  tbn  the  King  of  Fnnre  hid 
aid  Ihu  hi>  butard,  u  well  u  the  hnlard  of 
Konrundy,  micht  nnquer  England,— the  princciv 
bov  exclaimed,  "I'll  lo  ciiHi  with  bim.ir  be  gn 


dlatety  after  baling  I 
the  king  ohaetred,  II 

of  the  afce  re<pecllnie 
prince  replied,  "Tbn 


.KM 


di*  wai   worth    a   ctwwn.     "  At  1"  |  o(  rhcrirhinR  Sic   ecneioiu  ipirii   and  plai-fui 
I  ihe  rmure  Englidi  hero,  "r  would  I  ■  hummir  of  Henri-,  hit  lotor  cnconngcd  a  fiec- 

emwn'"— when  Jamei  I,  a.«ke<l  him  whether  he  ,  humonroflbt  bov.    while  Ihc  royal  pupil  held 

l5i«l,  "  fincliihnien,  became  he  wu  of  kinAwl  I  gain,  of  hii  temper  umcllDiei  twitched  the 
to  more  noble  penonsof  England  than  of  Frantx;"  equability  or  the  gravity  of  the  preceptor.  When 
and  when  tbc  king  inquired  whechcr  he  toi-cd  the   Newton,  wbhing  to  fct  an  example  lo  the  prince 


ANECDOTES  OF  PRINCE  HENRY. 


"It  tia:oin«  not  %  prince/*  obKTVcil  Newlon. 
"Then,"   rctotKii  the  F^ons  piin«,  "doth  h 

humlcn  hickerinp  ate  BmnHiie-  wlien  hi*  tulor, 
playiDR  't  ihulflv'boani  with  the  prioA,  talHinrd 

threw  it  on  the  bant.'  ind  mhaed  tv»  liai, 
the  prince  imilinely  ettliimml,  "Well  Ihiown, 

ihovLd  be  bcit  at  »uch  eiercho,  which  in  not 
meet  for  men  idw  are  diirins,"  The  tutor,  i 
lltTle  irritated, uld,  "  J  am  meet  fOr  whipping  dI 
bov4/*    "  Yon  Taunt  then,*"  retorted  the  prince. 

witich  the  prince,  who.  in  nil  respect  Un  his  tutor, 
did  not  care  to  eurj  the  jenl  ^nher,  rove  rmm 

"  He  hid  nml  be  i  wiic  man  IhU  could  do  that." 
the  bail,  and  hiving  lifted  up  the  golf-club,  some 


celleil  in  ■  quicknn  of  ITplyp  eomMncd  inth  re- 
flection, vhich  Riirkitbeprecocilyorhiainlelleel. 
Hl9  lutmr  hivina  laid  a  wager  with  the  prince  that 


hcnnan."    Tile  king  <leitred  the  prince  (o  put  n 
nd  that  the  agreetnent  nhould  bewritlenand  sub 


'illcl'  for  the  IT 
1."— Or      ■  ■  ■ 

iTpo«  ^only  admitted  hii  you^f 


.  'JW^n.e 


frenuently  in  Che  good  humour  with  which  It 

tic*.  He  had  two  of  oppouie  charactcn,  wl: 
wen  frequent)]'  Kt  by  the  ean  for  the  Mlie  of  t[ 
lyoft )  the  vne,  Murray,  nlcknameil  "  the  tailor, 


him  he  might  play  too;  and 
uked  whylie  ailmilled  Ihii 

light  to  he  of  theit  number,' 


Silnce  travelled,  to  ileep  with  their  luite  it  the 
Duira  of  the  nobility ;  and  (he  leyatl/  and  leal 
of  the  ho4t  were  usually  di9pli)-e<l  in  the  re- 
ceptioTi  ^ven  to  the  royal  i;ue-<t<    It  happened 

vanu  complained  that  they  had  been  obliged  to 
go  to  bed  auppcrlew,  through  ibe  pinching  par' 

whit  feaitV"  ihe  aited.  "To  this  tent."  Hid 
the  boy.    "  what,  wnold  yout  hirfineaa  give  me 

ife  iitVa  ch'iX"    "*  """  '  "  '""  '"* 

According  to  this  anecdote-wiiler,  it  appears 
that  Jamea  I.  probably  did  not  delight  m  the 
martial  dispoutiona  of  hii  son,  whose  hahita  and 
oi^nions  were,  in  all  leipects,  forming  thnruchrei 
oPpoiitetD  hiaown  trsnouiland  literaiy  character. 
-rtlVwritcT   tayi,    that ~' his    maje-ty,    with   the 


THE  DTART  OF  A  MASTER  OF  THE  CEREXOXTES. 


thlt  ir  he  did   nnl  ippLy   marc  dillgEnILy  U  tan 

mlliuiT  iffiin.  To  Ui  (Mhcr,  Ok  lilik  prinn 
mide  DO  repjv :  but  urbni  hk  lumr  cme  day  tE- 
mindcd  him  of  wtait  hli  bthcr  bid  (^.ln  fll- 
muUte  OUT  yoiiEiK  prinre  to  litmry  diligcace, 
Hmty  ukcd.  whirtncr  be  ThouRht  hn  tmirher 
wiHiUl  prweKigoodiidholD?    Hli  tutot  teplied, 

ouf  UtTle  priDce/"  will  i  make  Charia  archblitaDp 


converHhon, which»  in  truih.onlya 
warmth  of  nil  fecJingt;  but  in  thii 


>  tfaii  vcrtal  fnllty  o(  tail  rilhcn ;  lot  when  be 
S  told  Ihat  MHic  hiirki  wen  lo  be  KOt  la  him, 
ut  il  wB  tbousht  th(>  Ibe  king  wonlil  inmnpt 
nne  of  Ihem,  hi  replied  "He  nuy  da  u  be 


rrile  ■neolote*  of 


■  or  Ml  (he  Alor,  niK  ■  rluh  brlween  iwo 

ri^D}e  votagfiDBt,  in  the  ToRnidable'thBpn  ol  am- 
baHdont  ¥reTT  teady  [o  dflpaltrb  i  cmitier  to  ttac&r 
CDUTla,  for  Ibe  omwioo,  or  negkcl,  of  a  lingLc 
Mw'iu*.   The  pride  of  nalioD*,  ia  pacibc  times 

lowcF:  yet  nbould  not  the  btople  be  gralerul  to 
be  Hn-errign  wbo  ninfiim  tali  campaigm  to  bn 
irawing'TDom  i  who?c  Md-mitihal  li  i  tripping 

inl*  ID  ui-e  the  intiolitaillty  of  coun-etlqucne ; 
ind  wbose  baiilci  of  peace  are  only  Id*  prece- 

LmbiTaadon-cxtTaenliniry  ro  the  court  of  FnDce 


great  and  beroic  fharacter.    1 


hapi  Irom  thoK  grate  and  cmiRly  ItaUin,  wbo, 
In  their  pein-  pompom  courts,  made  the  whole 
butinem  of  their  cflemintle  diyi  con^il  in  puivti- 
Iku  I  and,  wanting  lealiliei  to  keep  theimelTci 

well  the  gcniu«  of  a  people  wbo  boasted  dI^ 
elementaT^'  worka  to  teach  bow  arbtHiIi  were  lo 


o  be  the  Ibeatre  and  monarch!  ant 
aiy  dlKrimlnatkHU,  ettahlith  Ibe  use 
n  court  ConniiaiblUiicd  brluUan  co 


^oTuk 


King  of  Hpain ;  thai  be  cou^d 
Tigbt-hand  in  tail  nwa  boim 


pTtnldea  that  Ibey  w 
olben  miAht  lut  dra' 


luld  ctcilc  a  (Dnidmble  dcli; 
other,  which  wouli' 
e,«-«.l».    They, 


hie  dfliy,  they  pmpo 


r.  Iqr  ibe  cardinals  bcMc ) 
Ibe  Nuncio  Ipada  would  b»e  made  the  a 
jealoui  of  the  pretenilDni  of  the  Ebj^iih  an 
don,  and  Teproachcd  bim  ritb  yielcung  bii 

go  belore  Ihem,  it  ii  true,  l.ul  likewiw  I 

chAmber  of  audience,  eilber  xated  in  Itai 

ready :  I  am  alwayi  the  lim  to  ipcik,  and  tl 


TBE  DIABT  OF  A  MASTER  OF  THE  CEREMONIES.  149 


1  IlK  tbroiw  or  hll 


united  kingdoitu,  ind  pTomlicd  bkmself  uid  tti 
uorld  IOD([haJcyon d»4 or  p«ce,  foreign  prince 

EuTopcAA  power,  rciOTled  10  (he  Engliab  coutI. 

which  dircldy  Aisled  in   (he  coutIs  of  Eurupe, 

(he  mode  or  Fmncc,  obKtvo  Koger  Coke.t    Th» 

uid  jkllny  (he  pcrpclua]  juloiuics  of  the  reprt- 
VTlUtives  of  (hen-  m»rrdgm.     Tlie  fiM   officer 


auon^ed  It  the  mbtilty  of  hii  ImenUve  diilb 

dnd  TTgid  bop  whom  he  had  undir  hit  caTe<^^iK 

Sir  John  Fioeif,  lite  A  min  of  gcniui.  in  oflice, 
■nd  Irving  too  in  an  ure  oC  divio,  hu  not  rriiited 
(he  pteuuK  litiour  dT  perpetniling  hit  own  atx- 


^n^iuid.  Ltgatliigttfll  Mundum.    Itisfi.^  Thisi'C 

ty  hU  friend  Jiuei  Howell,  (he  well-krovn  write 
nd  0]d)»,  vIkk  lltenry  euriosity  Kltcelyin 


ii  lell) or^jidi 


hu  been  hulily  Buiniiioned,  to  Inquire  nvhy  the 

hii  iceth,  beilda  1  tit  of  (he  igue,"  ulibough  he 
hoped  to  be  present  U  (he  iune  Icninl  next  yur  I 

monra  diKntingling  hinbclf,  and  the  lord  chim- 
betlain,  Irom  the  moat  pro^'oking  perpkxitict,  by 

the  MuicDvi(e  unbuudoT  would  not  field  pre- 
cedence to  the  Frenrh  nor  Spaniard.  On  Ihii 
occuion,  Sir  John,  «  hb  witi'  end,  contrited  >n 
obuuie  lituUiDu,  in  which  the  Run  imagined  he 
wu  highly  honciircd,  u  there  he  enioved  a  fnll 
»lghl  oflhe  king'!  fjite,  (hough  he  Could  lee  nothing 

cotite,  It  hii  reeepiion  a  Whitehall,  complained 
yard,    sir  John  awired  him  Ihat  in  Eiwland  it 


table>"  Arguments  and  infcrencn  werededuccd 
from  precolcna  quoted  ;  but  aa  pmcedenta  fome- 
timet  look  contrary  wayL  (hit  alTitr  might  itill 

in  England,  wheie  the  beii  man  ■■(a,  is  ttiat  end  of 
the  table."  Sir  John,  indeed,  would  often  (akc 
the  nlcH(  enlarged  yiew  of  thinp;  as  when  (he 
Spaniih  ambaador,  after  hunting  with  the  king 
at  Theobalds,  dined  with  his  tnajoly  in  the  prirv' 
chamber,  hb  son  Don  Antonio  dined  in  the  councll- 
chambecwithionuef (heking^attendanlt.  Don 
Antonio  (rated  himself  on  a  ilool  at  the  end  of 
the  table,  "  One  of  the  gentlemen-ushers  tool. 
exception  at  this,  bdi^  he  said,  irregular  and 

■tived  impi}  Jar  iiaii  r'    In  a  word,  no  person 


usher,  and  it  wu  therefore  neglected."    Thus  Sir 


Ijo  THE  DfARS'  OF  A  ifASTER  OF  THE  CEREMONIES. 

UlMni  5pitif,  und  riak  an  rmpty  iinoE  igiinat  ■  .  Thti  Ihr  irf hdukc'i  tmbaisador  d 
little  tfK  itmI  quiet;  which  wrrc  no  rommnn  I  ftfTirmcd,  that  Ihej*  lud  bKn  lepkn 
orcumncn  with  that  mirtyroT  ititr,  ■  mutPTor^  In  muquese  ftc,  but  he  hid  Deter  ^- 
ceTrmonifl  I  hid  aIu'»i  jHclded  prccvlcncc  lo  lh( 

Bui  Sir  Joho— 'to  me  he  la  vi  enTertilHlag  ■   ptedcxcfton,  when  wtf  were  but  [hi 

Knnni«e.  tlut  1  do  not  cm  In  cet  tid  ol  Yam—  \  gnndr.  of  whicll  he  wis  reidj  lo  pi 
d  to  overcome  dHBculiipi which  jlretrhed  hi>   cient  pimohj"   hihI   that  Venice   w 

Ihe  like  iinliict:)>  accident  luopen  In  the  waiy  I  UrTllor^,  cominiTd  to  i.u  mOMic 
mailer  nf  Ibe  cernnemiea,  did  itir  John  ckceed  r^^  ■• — and  id  all  ihu  he  added,  ihj 
the diilit}' nr  hh  iHtmctiom, »r  nlhrr  hi>  half-]  Ilan  bragged   at  Ihe    licqueni  (ami 


ai'ODili^and  hew  gowtnmenl,  to  Ihe  cvrcnionlci  cbamhcrlain  and  hla  rnaieity,  a  mbemn  dnUri- 
of  M.  tlenrp^  day,  ihey  inquiiHl  whether  thej-  Hon  i>  drawn  up,  in  which  Jamn  I.  mcBl  pnOf 
Anidd  hive  the  laliv  rLipect  paid  to  them  ai  J  lamenr^UMI  the  iFchduhe'i  ambimdor  haa  tibv 
other  amhanadnn.  llie  hWd  sir  John,  out  of\  tbii  aSlniect  but  bia  majerty  nlfrn  Ih^  mM 
the  millcihen  nf  fain  hinod,  uid  he  duiihled  it  cfigcDt  armlment*  in  hii  nvn  fim>qr :  Ibat  ifae 
not,  Aa  afioii,  liowcvcr,  n  he  Trlumcd  to  the  Venetian  iiad  announced  to  faia  majeirr,  ihM  hit 
tnrd  thambeilain.  he  divorcreil   that  he  had{  tcpuhlic  bad  nrdcied  hh  men  new  littriB  ob  Ac 

lion.    The  inril  chjinlicTliln  uid,  Sir  John  had    prlncei  — Ihe    Cpanbh   •mbvudor.  not  findal 

Dutchmen  **lo  aland  in  ibecloietDf  Iheqiieen'i   wav,  he  did  not  rare  to  diinnte  pieeedeDcc  mlb 


he  had  done  no  atbeiwiie  than  he  had  been  de^   bv  boMlf  ai „ 

nired ;  widch,  however,  Ihe  lonl  chamberLiin,  nr  |  taken  for  Ihe  gfi^tfit  4*y  f    At  i 


id  not  rare  to  dii^nte  pneedencc  wA 

■nlemnity  of  the  murlage  dicing  one  coflUnaed 
art  thfnu^  diven  davi,  'I  ndmined  neither  frin 
^^  ^,,.«,.,,  ..,<|  thenJanei  prorei  too  imck, 
C,  Ibal  Ihe  (art  4n  ibOold  he 


but  uneaAfJ  Thn  affah- vnded  pliaerab])' for  the  Bin  me  rrenrD  ipq  veneiun  amoasaoon, 
poor  Dutrnmen.  Thnv  new  republican*  were  envkd  by  Ihe  SpanHh  and  Ihe  arehdukeX  *w 
then  regarded  with  the  nu»l  j«lnii>  conlempl  Ihemielvei  nn(  loa  rh3r>,  and  cniitiiy  (Widtina. 
hy  all  the  imbtnadon,  and  were  jiM  irenlurine  I  The  iiuoieni  Prenrhman  hm  attemfrted  lo  lake 
nn  Iheir  Art  dancing-ateWr  l*>  move  among!  prereileiKeortbenipreofWjlet;  and  the  Vcne- 
crawned  hcadi.  The  Dutch  imw  re^i^ted  ddI  tian  tlood  upon  IhH  pfdiit,  thai  they  dsould  ih  en 
to  he  prewnt ;  dcclalinH  Ihei-  hud  iuat  received  rhain.  thni^  the  priDre  had  hut  ■  ftoni ;  and, 
an  iirj-'aJ  i»titilhn,  front  Ihe  Earl  vt  Exeler, !  partk'ukariy,  Ihat  the  ^'ar^'er  fhouid  nol  ilaiid 
Id  Hoe  al  WImUedon.  A  piece  of  lufmlmir '  tKlOK  him  t  "  But,"  iiddi  Sir  John, 
lo  aave  appearancci  {  piohab^-  Ihe  happy  cnntriv- '  them  prevulLed  in  tiwlr  reoMnlet*  pm 
anrenf  Ihecimhlned  genluicior  Ibc  lord  chim- 1  Nor  wai  il  jKjrraMe  (vi.'n  at  the  nu| 
herliin  and  IlK  maitei  nf  llie  Rlcmonivi.  I  which  chBed  wllh  Ihe  loUowinK  cal 

theM  arehivei  n[  fantaHiral  i.tate,  and  )^bI  a !  Mr  John  hailne  uihcred  amnnir  the 
cnuTliy  world,  where  pnlilici  and  civilitj'  term  to  i  Ihe  lady  nf  Ihe  FTenrh  amha«adnr.  hi 
have  been  at  perpetual  variance,  '  the  ran^^ng  of  Lbc  lord  chamtKTiain,  i 

When  the  Palatine  arrtteil  in  Bnglmd  In  many  |  ibe  nboidcr  be  placed  at  the  ubie  ni 
KHiabclh,  the  only  daughter  nf  Jametifae  tiitl,    Ibe  conntenn,  and  above  Ibe  hi 
"  Ihe  Icaftiiu  and  joilily  ■■  of  Ibe  nwrt  were  in- 1  lo  1    "  TIk  rivountew  of  effinghi 
lerTDDted  W  the  diHonienl  of  the  arehduke't  am- 1  her  eiwiun'i  lif  HI,  and  wnaeanl 
bawador,  of  whldi  tbeie  were  the  material  polnli  i   pmper  plan  (an  iihc  called  it),  woul 

Mr  Jidin  walled  on  him,  In  honour  wllta  hli  I  kiwer,  as  Add  Iht  kavi  nf  the  arr 
preience  the  •Memnily  nn  the  aecnnd  or  third  I  atlcr  dinner,  when  Ihe  French  ai 
■lays  either  to  ^nner  or  wpper,  nr  bnih.  thinned  of  the  diderenrc  and  oi^ioai 

The  archdnke'i  ambawadnr  pained:  wllh  al  aulliirhliwife'lciach'"  with  gnat 
tionhled    counlenaate    inquiring  whether   Ihe  I  Frenrb  lady  wa>  per>uaded  to  lUy,  i 

iwerabte  to  my  inlruclkiin  In  caae  nf  inch'   making  n«  icruple  of  vleMiBg  their  pLaca. 

mand,  that  he  wai lick  —■—-"---■--■'  -     i  .  .-         ,      ..■     . 

r  waa  yciterday,  <|iKMh 


4iunHnn  ill  ebk  m  buch  maaiiig  no  ICTupie  oi  viennng  meu-  piaca. 
ck.  aad  could  not  be  there.  1  John,  TOibendlna  hi<  gnritv,  facctioinly  ■ 
■'"  ' thcl  "The  I_ulv  of  Effinghani,  i      "      ' 


Oder  mighl  have  very  well  been  made  him,  and    bearing  [with  raiher  loo  much  than  too  lirtlc 
pethapi  accepted."  Utomarh)  tiolh  her  lupper  and  her  mmpany." 

To  Ihn,  Sir  John  replied,  thai  the  French  had  I  Thi.  ipoill  child  uf  quJiii-,  tug^ng  at  the  hendi 
Venelian  ambawaikin  holding belwnn  them  one!  ambatsadrest  lo  keep  her  down,  mnniKedto  be 
course  of  cnrreipondenre,  and  the  Spanish  ami  -  -eated  jt  the  «de  of  Ihe  Frenchwoman  Oiat  dar, 
the  archdukes  another,  Iheif  Invjtattoni  bad'  IrovL'niniE  ind  ftowned  on,  and  p^og  mpperlni 
been  (Dually  joint,  I  to  bed,  paia«d  ihe  wedding-day  ef  Ow  PiUtiBa 


THE  DIARY  OF  A  MASTER  OF  THE  CEREMONIES. 


buudoT  i  Ibr  II  wu  his  pirlicukr  jiptitude  to  And 
fault.  »d  pick  oui  jcaloiuJa  imoog  ^I  tbe  Dlben 

iKwIy  vrivvd.    When  ^iii'iKil.  he  inquired  iT  the 
Spiniih  imbuiutDr  wu  to  be  Iherr  ?  and  humbly 


imin  from  theVcKlian  imhaHddor  hid  been  to 
hli  [ord  dedred  mc,  that  if  citt  I  vouJd  do  him 

hid  rrom  the  Flench  Drthilmotniiig'ipTacttdiDg. 

futthet  iulructioiu  rtom  the  Lord  chimboliin; 
whcRwith.  V  BOD  i>  I  wH  aiifficicBtly  umedj  I 

Bui  Ac  Vaxtiin  vouJd  net  conler  with  Sir 

cept  In  prcHKCor  hi>  cnrn  KcreUTy.    Then  the 

tthLch  poor  fiir  John  icluilLy  didi  For  he  idd>, 
"I  vlelded,  but  not  vithout  diKoverJDg  myin- 
tituficlion  to  be  in  peremplarily  pmiCfroD,  u  if 


Thiii™. 


ihonhl  deliter  the  ji 


1  lyllable.     IThnher  both 

K  proceeding  could  ipoid 


fectly  Hllt/ictory,  d 


nony  Bt  lbs  royal  livoui,  in  Ihe  public  hoiioi 
onfcned  on  him^  ind  regretled  that  the  quiet 
III  majeity  should  be  lo  hvquenlly  dJtturbed  I 

'  ovcT-thronged  hiB  gueats  at  tbefcbl." 


iCjhrjfHd/  Biking  whether 
Hdor  waa  ilso  invited  ?"    J 

declared  "  be  could  not  i« 

he  hoped  and  imagines 

in  wai  Handing  on  ih 
he       


when  at  «  lih.  relused  being  placed  among  the 
imliuHdon  of  Savoy  and  Ihe  Elitn-gcneral,  &c., 
bite  the  Spipiih  ind  French  ambaiwdor)  wen: 

lillVi  ilu  fiT'"i^'"  if  <•••  itf«i^^»ii^"lHi"t 
itT  Mi  luttu  Man  llu  Itu  tfa  laptmrr.    Thli 


awn  words  FeaaoQiiu  with  that  line  friticul  (ict» 
which  be  undonbtediy  poneoed,  an  riBhl  ind  left 

ai  oeniuK.  Hear  Ihii  uge  ol  fiancliint,  thia  philo- 
•opTierofcourtole. 

"  The  Aiioh  before  delivered  by  the  Venetian 
ambiHadoT  vuju^^/d,  upon  dtttourir  1  had  wiih 
i9mr  V  Mndmicititlpgt  to  tx  of  rtiue  in  a  dUttntr 

MtmMy  !■'•  And  then  Sir  John,  like  ■  pbiioKpliicii 
hiatorian,  eipiom  iome  greit  public  neni— "  At 
It  Ibt  roDchiiioo  o(  the  peace  il  Venins  (the  only 
part  of  the  peace  he  cired  about),  Ihe  Ftench  and 

Spanish  meeting,  contendetl  for  precedence — who 

thq  right  find  of  lb(  »td ''«"( ('I't  l^g'K  himielf 


DIABIES—MOSAL,  HISTORICAL,  ASD  CRITICAL. 


Ihu  u  (he  \efttft  len  hud.  luving  Ox  h 
the  tight  huHl  10  th?  5p>niih»  wtw,  uking 
MivWd  hInnctF  IDhAT«  IhebmcTof  ii;  h 


'TSti. 


ukd  foppery  of  their  utior 

lodginp.  nocho,  with  ail  tbeii  R^iii,  il  the  n> 

ide  by  the  imbuMdon.  ibout  ahort  aUcwtnce 


Tbmt  Itl 


to  them 


t  in  pl.t< 


by  the  emtic  coune  o(  ia  gieat  lur;  jiih]  the 
bltnk  letten  ta  ■upencribe.  and  flddrev  Id  any 

jeclcd  to  the  anhfneu  of  the  place  he  vu  ttink 
in.  R^Led,  thai  "  if  ir  were  under  a  Iree,  II  ibobid 

V«  although  we  Hiiile  at  thii  adcnce  of  eti- 
quette and  Iheie  ligid  formi  or  cemnoDr^  vhrn 
they  m-pTt  altogether  difcardeil,  x  great  statesman 

mimof  Iboe  regulated  formalibea  of  coott-eti' 
quetlr,  iremt  to  hai-e  broken  up  the  pomp  and 


» ffmd^Dgly,  that  S^  J 

inJigiiaiiQn,  and  tommemotalei  the  iurtiRnitj .  Ai 
thiu,<-<in  one  of  the  Spaniah  ambaMadbTi-eaVn- 
Drdiqary  wailing  at  Deal  for  three  da;^  Sir  John^ 

fi7  nUfvraSinvitt  boip  t  dw-tan^ti  ambauadai, 
■1  bia  prnfiM /«  mf  at  hb  partioB  from  Doi-er  being 
bul  an  old  gilt  livelr  pot,  Ihatlud  loK  hit  felloo, 
DDI  worth  above  twelve  paunda,accOEnpaDied  with 

teeen.  (o  my  fhame  and  hii."    vhen  he  left  Ihi*  .  H^im,     iuu&  luc  autaniagr  vi  toe  pcencc  ui  ■□? 

the  ihip.  he  eauha  th.a  "  tlie  crcin-winib  held  him  j  blL^ed  (and  to  which  the  king  himtelf  na  not 
in  the  Downs  almost  a  teven-iiight  bcfoic  they  !  enough  inclined),  but  all  doon open  loall  peiaoni; 

incont'cniencct  reiulted;  iheir  perpetuat  jan  ofjipake  to  him  when,  and  ai  kjngaa  he  would  with- 
punciUttj,  and  their  lingular  intrigues  to  obtain  .  out  any  ceremony,  or  4tti*ing  iih  tiu4uiiit  acftr^ 

tience  of  the  nnnt  picifk  wfreign,  that  Jamea   chamberwhile  the  king  waidrcHing  himKlf,  and 

menic  comfom.  iml  wai  perpeluaUy  embroiled  j  be  would  ax  in  bia  own.    And  from  thia  net'cr- 

perceived  the  great  charge  of  thetc  embauici, ;  Spaniard  at  ihu  time,  vitheul  any  Aitt^  in  fJta 
ordinary  and  ealraotdinary,  often  on  UiwiilBai '  ktni;,  Ihtuth  jkI  ttrmaud  in  any  inti  in  ChtuUii- 
pntence  i  and  with  an  eniniv  tre»«uTv.  and  an  :  4«b.  many  iijconveniencea  and  miadiicb  brake  in, 
I  conhl  never  after  be  thut  out."  • 


DIARIES— MORAL. 


™'K"^.j^'^''!li.T"  "* '""^''i!  ^l*"    graiifiedbydedi{;iing''ititimelDlhel'iitlelabout. 


le  Kairt^bead.  he  then,  after  a  gteal 


Oct.  .11,  i«itl. 


or  ARIES— MORAL,  HISTORICAL,  AND  CRITICAL. 


good  dclinitioq  of  tbc  ux  afHl  purpc 
Shjftfflhury  cilU  •  iiiry.  "  A  F.U 
ended  ftn  tdS-ttmcMoB ;  ind  1  Colon 
n  the  Kign  of  Chuki  I.  kept  >  dtu 
Ibc  iFiril  of  the  Hmei,  he  entitle 


*hich  I  hue  eiMiiintdiii  maniucrtpt,  lli»l 
ritingiq  retirement  they  wouUvTite  when 
flnolblntf  td  mile, 

jilthoii^  J  hire  myielf  known  fcrenl 


oungtng  ige  i 


continued  ttw  nnelice  with  pleuure  >nd  utility. 
One  of  our  oUi  wrilen  qiuinUy  obserres,  that 
"the  ancicntv  lued  lo  tuc  their Romiicb-pill of 
rilnilion  e^ery  night.  Some  used  UtUc 
.  >[  Uhlel^  which  Ihey  tied  >t  their  ginlla. 

iflinrt  Ihcir  oighl.Ieckoning."     We   know  thai 
-Ilini,  the  ddiglit  of  maskiTKl  u  he  h»  been 


.     . ..  of  hii  secret  proder  of  fHendshtp  Xi 
Bmperor  of  Oemuny  with  men  uiinst  Ih 


he  had  omitted  in  the  beginning:  whil  wudone 

...  down. — Even  Jvnes  II.  wrote  with  his  own 
hind  the  dsiiy  oeeurrencci  of  tui  times,  bis  re- 
°Kllont  wid  conjectureg;  ind  bequeilhed  lu 
etter  materials  for  bistory  than  "  perhaps  any 
ivercign  prince  his  left  behind  him."  Aifrerrily 
id  schooled  him  Into  tcHeclion,  and  softened 

ling  In  his  bvour,  that  ajletliis  abdication  he 
collected  his  thoughts,  and  nwrtllicd  himself  by 
the  penince  of  ■  d»iy.— Could  i  Cliie  or  a  Crom- 
— .. .. ipoaed  one?    Neither  of  tbeie  men 


laltered  thoughts,  and  of  the  Ira^nents  i 
,  an  still  reaping  the  bcnclit  of  their  lone 


his  studlest  and  took  so  much  pleasure  in  the  fre- 
it  his  hun^'lMk,  because,  says  Spclman,  day  and 


great  portion  of  his  time  to  litnary  intercourse  i 
— '  the  dnest  gcniusesof  the  age  addressed  their 

nlon  I  Dallinglon,  In  the  pre&ce  to  hit 
us  "  Apborisnn,  civil  and  Militaries"  has  de- 
ed Prince  Henry's,  domestic  life ;  "  HyieU," 


LiTuriKTw 


London  after  the  death  of  I 
lived  Ihirtv  veaia  ifterwardi 
whom  he  had  been  married  l< 


Jle  of  the'  lasl 


?■«?"."£ ': 


joyed  and  Improved  their  estates  in  th 
and  kept  good  hos|ntaiity  in  (heir  houH 

ntighbours."    This  will   Vpeai  >  vi 


very 

!m=TtLe'"mi"l!!£: 


SS4 


DIARIBS—MOBAL,  HISTORICAL.  AND  CSITICAL. 


put  on  the  SiUrt  ofhumin  life.  biiloiia." 

Thiiwuthc  igeaf  DiAHiu!    Tlic hemil  sf  il-       A nudcni of  ihu <lia  ni Sir STTnoodi  tfSwo. 

pie  nnyhuTt  irttlm  ridiculoiu  Jiirio,  u  Eliu  ,  wc  nvre  the  valniWt  joumjj)  of  pKliimml  id 
Aihinaic'ii  biununyofourgrutnlchMutcnin    Eliiabctb'inigri.anil  vho  hu  IcR  in  muuKilpt 


dacrilKi.onlyihowthiltlicy  |  upon  Mhmnd  gralcr  libouis,  caoceMag  myidr 


■Tc  brttcr  KqvBiDlH  with  —  -.— ,  ,,— 

Thomu  Bodley,  Rconimciiding  lo  Sir  Fnnc]) 
£u.vn»  Iticn  a  niung  min  on  hi«  trAveI«»ttie  mode 
b)'  which  he  iIiDUld  mikv  hit  life  "  pRXiuble  to 

mnukable.  "  Let  ill  Ihcie  richa  he  treuDieil 
up.  Ddt  onlgr  In  your  mcinan',  where  time  nay 
Ksaat  yoar  ilock,  hut  nther  in  gtfid  ^'tUw^i  tnd 
t—t$  tf  acfuia,  which  will  keep  (hem  vie  for 
yooT  Due  heredfter,"    By  IhcK  ful  Mtiimgi  aad 

ilent  ind  u  vavxvK%\  lhe«e  "piod  wntingt" 


fwnredlr  contnbiitedwljiaely  to  form  the  cliimric 
mlndi  orthe  Mdein,  the  <^inden\  the  CoEch  ind 
Dlhenof  Ihit  vigonniB  j^of  oeniitf.  When  Coke 
k'U  into  iR-snce,  aod  retireiTinto  prli-Ue  life,  the 
dbcinled  (UteMiun  did  noi  pule  himieU  into  i 
lethargy,  but  on  Ihe  eonlrjiy  leemcd  iilmo>t  to 
iTjoice  th«l  n  opportunity  vu  at  length  aHorded 
him  of  Inilulginu  in  ■ludiei  rhvc  congeniil  to  hn 
liKlingi.  Then  he  tound  letaure  not  nnlc  H)  tetiie 
hi)  lomwr  writing!,  which  were  Ihlrty  volDmei 
written  with  hii  on  hind,  bolwhil  man  pleued 

h*  called  I'ttt  Mtnm,  ind  which  contiined  i 

pnii»ble  that  inch  •  ui.  could  hue  been  de- 
«trD>-edbiit  by  accident;  and  it  mightjpeTtiipi 


work4,  and  adds  "The^  I  have  piDmed  >o  tay- 

hvpn  to  Teach  it,  but  to  Atxit  ai  taigfa  u  poa^blT 
bh  strength,  art.  or  ikill.  will  penniip  So  lboa|^ 
[  know  it  inptmible  to  ^nlih  all  thcK  dnrtng  mr 
■hnn  and  uncertain  lile,  baring  alnady  eoleied 
into  the  thirtieth  ycarofmv  age.  and  tuning  niaDy 
unaroldable  cara  of  an  eMale  and  fimilr,  ya,  ft 


oil  all  my  otlkerempioymenb-"    As^redly  theo 
autohiOKTaphy.  ibrminga  folio  of  more  than  w 

whole  personal  knowledge  of  rhe  leading  acton 
ienglhened  pages.    Yet  thb  wai  not  written  wi 


"l-S. 


■nd  nilh  hi>  inHrm  heallli.  hecnnldenr  ima^te  future  timn,  «'ilh  no  pouibie  view  but  IbipoM- 
tbai  beitKHild  mike  u^oT  thew  maleliah  i  but .  humoui  ntiUty.  Thejieeni  to  bare  been  ta^ihcd 
he  dnl  tlii\  invpirvd  by  the  lore  of  truth,  and  of '  by  the  moA  genuine  paanon  of  patriotism,  and  aa 
that  labnurubicb  dcli,ihM  In  preparing  Iti  ma- r  awfullnceot  pnteiity.  whatmotirel 
teiidihirpiMeriiy.  Urlnp  Gib«>n  bu  made  an  .  fnl  eoDkl  induce  manvngbiemeu  and 
important  obnnvation  on  Ihe  nature  of  tuch  a  :  to  Iraniciibe  rolumei;  to  transmit  ti 
diar>-,  which  cannot  be  too  often  repealed  to  Ihosc  ,  authentic  nanaiii-es.  wliich  would  not  ■ 
of  contempora^  notice  j  either  becauii 


lilt  then  1  ttaiBcnhe  It.    "  Were  thh  piacliaed  br 
peiion«  of  leamlnfl  and  entioiity,  wbo  hare  ci|t 

kingdom,  the  short  lunbaibditrKlurcsoftfaii  kind 


DIARIES^MORAL,  HISTORICAL,  ASD  CBITICAL. 


unaorUKiciilwi.wbkb 
'end  by  midentjl  circu 
ia.  thu  thb  tail  wa  tl 


thcmghlful  dispoiiEicHii 
Duchm  or  York,  wlD 
daughter  of  CtmrcndtHi, 
Urr :   the  cclcbrMed  I 


tonned  »     _ 

Xtiy  Fuutijiw'4  MemolTf  in  pirtUUy  kp 


gown."    When  whiwlocke  w»t  (cnt  on  in  cm 
DBsy  Ifi  flwcden,  he  jouTulbcd  It :  it  amounti  t 
two  tKdky  qairtna,  citncneJy  cnrioiu.     He  ha 
even  J?l>  u>  a  Hitlory  of  Boglind, 
ret  111  b  DDI  laid  ofWh-"-'— ■•- -  — ■  - 


for  thoK  Id  puhJic  life,  wlui 


■  hmlly, 


"  Ktmrmtrmmia  ^tkr  Lttturi  tf  W 


**  Jourut  af  the  SwedMt  AnlHay,**  we  owe  the 
notke  nf  thiiwOTk»iQdl^ill  (nncrihc  bv  <Ut- 
nllicdfceliBuiarcmltina  the  w»toftbeie  uti. 
■'  SiKb  1  waA,  (nd  by  inch  i  fUbcr,  a  brcome  Ibe 

ttilion  In  life  may  at  any  time  hereafter  call  upon 
him  to  deliberate  fat  nit  country — and  Ibr  bit 
family  and  pcnon,  m  parti  of  the  great  whole ; 

the  Hippmatonorthubnnch  of  the  .fiiiiabi which 

— Seauiborhinv-'"-'---- "■ 

d  ban  aflord 


cnalen  part  haa  hltherm  eacapcd  my  inqn 

phlkwphlcal  curioalty.    Tlie  pnTice,  howc 

thete   '■  KemembranR*"   haa  been   fcnui , 

preacTved,  and  it  b  an  entraordlDarir  production. 


IntBli  It  appean  that  whitelocke  himKif  owed 
the  Ant  Idea  of  hit  dwb  work  lo  one  left  by  big 
[alber,  which  eiitted  in  the  ramUy.  and  to  which 
he  repeatedly  Tefera  tab  children.  He  aa}?,  ^'The 
menuny  an  J  worth  of  j-ouT  deceased  grandfalher 

nKVuTagemeoI  and  ptecedent  to  thit  larger  work." 
Here  i>  a  family  ^cture  quite  new  (o  ua^  (he 


only  one   .... 

which  conld  only  ban 


henUc  papen  and  recordi,  all  daily 
imphleti  aa  Ibey  appeared.    Thia 


able  to  Laud  than  thIa  eipoiition  of  hi)  private 
diary.    We  Ibrgct  the  hanhnoa  In  ihe  pervnal 


and  collected  nKdIIaliona. 


and  the  purity  of  hb  Inlentiona  \t  tnlabllihed. 
Laud,  who  had  too  hangbtily  blended  the  prime 

Kientloaf  [naiiFea»  In  the  hurry  of  public  duiiea, 
and  In  tbe  pomp  of  publtc  hanoura,  could  ileal 


s-rs       

Biahop  IXiuglas,  we  nuy  Icam  that  al  tbe  cloie  of 
the  laat  centuiy,  a  man  of  tbe  h«t  quality  made 

tbaking    bia  arm   at  a  gaming-table,   avoclatinu 

In  the  lait  ave :  Lord  An^lc^ey.  who  made  »  great 
a  hgure  In  the  rcl^  of  charlcill.,  left  one  behind 


hOH 


2$6 


LICENSERS  OF  THE  PRESS. 


before  him.  In  this  moving  scene  he  copies  nature 
with  freedom,  and  has  exquisitely  touched  the  in* 
dividual  character.  There  that  p«at  statesman 
opens  the  most  concealed  transactions,  and  traces 
the  views  of  the  most  opposite  dispositions ;  and 
though  engaged,  when  in  exile,  in  furthering  the 
royal  intercourse  with  the  loyalists,  and  when,  on 
the  restoration,  conducting  the  difficult  affairs  of 
a  great  nation,  a  careless  monarch,  and  a  dissi- 
patcd  court,  yet  besides  his  immortal  history  of 
the  civil  wan,  "  the  chancellor  of  human  nature  " 
passed  his  life  in  habitual  reflection,  and  his  pen 
in  daily  employment.  Such  was  the  admirable 
industr>'  of  our  later  ancestors ;  their  diaries  and 
their  memoirs  arc  its  monuments ! 

James  II.  is  an  illustrious  instance  of  the  ad- 
mirable industry  of  our  ancestors.  \Vlth  his  own 
hand  this  prince  wrote  down  the  chief  occurrences 
of  his  times,  and  often  his  imtant  reflections  and 
conjectures.  Perhaps  no  sovereign  prince,  said 
Macpherson,  has  been  known  to  have  left  behind 
him  better  materials  for  history-.  We  at  length 
possess  a  considerable  portion  of  his  diar>-,  which 
is  that  of  a  man  of  business  and  of  honest  inten- 
tions, containing  many  remarkable  facts  which 
had  otherwise  escaped  nt>m  our  historians. 

The  literar)-  man  has  formed  diaries  purely  of 
his  studies,  and  the  practice  may  be  called  Jour- 
natixing  the  mind,  in  a  summar}'  of  studies,  and  a 
register  of  loose  hints  and  sboxxoi,  that  sometimes 
happily  occur;  and  like  Ringelbergius,  that  en- 
thusiast for  study,  whose  animated  exhortations 
to  young  students  have  been  aptly  compared  to 
the  sound  of  a  trumpet  in  the  held  of  battle, 
marked  down  every  nieht,  before  going  to  sleep, 
what  had  been  done  during  the  studious  day. 
Of  this  class  of  diaries.  Gibbon  has  given  us  an 
illustrious  model;  and  there  is  an  unpublished 
quarto  of  the  late  Banre  Roberts,  a  young  student 
of  genius,  devoted  to  curious  researches,  which 
deserves  to  meet  the  public  eye.  I  should  like  to 
see  a  little  book  published  with  this  title,  "  Otium 
delitiosum  in  quo  objecta  "vel  in  actione,  "vel  in  Itc- 
tione,  i;el  in  t-isione  ad  linguhs  dies  Anni  1629 
ohtervata  represeniantur."  This  writer  was  a 
German,  who  boldly  puhliikhed  for  the  cour»e  of 
one  year,  whatever  ne  read  or  had  seen  every  day 
in  that  year.  As  an  experiment,  if  honestly  per- 
formed, this  might  be  curious  to  the  philosophical 
obsen'er ;  but  to  wTite  down  ever>thing,  may  end 
in  something  like  nothing. 

A  great  poetical  contemporarj*  of  our  own 
countr)'  does  not  think  that  even  dri^amr  should 
pass  away  unnoticed ;  and  he  calls  this  register  his 
Nocturnals.  His  dreams  are  assuredly  poetical ;  as 
Laud's,  who  journalized  hut,  seem  to  have  iK-en 
made  up  of  the  affairs  of  state  and  religion  ; — the 
(>crsonages  are  his  patrons,  his  enemies,  and 
others;  liis  dreams  are  scenical  and  dramatic. 
Works  of  this  nature  are  not  designed  for  the 
public  eye ;  they  are  domestic  annals,  to  be 
guarded  in  the  little  archives  of  a  family;  they 
are  offerings  cast  before  our  Lares. 

Pleasing,  when  youth  is  long  expired,  to  trace 
The  forms  our  pencil  or  our  pen  design'd  ; 

Such  was  our  youthful  air,  and  shape,  and  face. 
Such  the  soft  image  of  our  youthful  mind. 

Shinstoni. 


LICENSERS  OF  THB  PRESS. 

In  the  history  of  literature,  and  pcrtiaps  in  Am 
of  the  human  mind,  the  institutioii  of  the 
Licensers  or  the  Press,  and  Censors  or  BoMO^ 
was  a  bold  invention,  designed  to  counteract  thtf 
of  the  Press  itself;  and  even  to  convqt  lUi 
newly-discovered  instrument  of  human  ftccdoB 
into  one  which  might  serve  to  perpetiuie  iIhC 
system  of  passive  obedience,  which  had  10  kmg 
enabled  mo<lem  Rome  to  dictate  hca-  laws  to  the 
universe.  It  was  thought  possible  in  the  labcS^ 
of  Italian  astuxia  and  Spanbh  monachisni,  10 
place  a  sentinel  on  the  ver>'  thoughts,  as  vdl  m 
on  the  persons  of  authors ;  and  in  extreme  OMO^ 
that  books  might  be  condemned  to  th«  tiuoa,  m 
well  as  heretics. 

Of  this  institution,  the  beginnings  arc  obKOR^ 
for  it  originated  in  caution  and  fear ;  but  m  dtt 
work  betrays  the  workman,    and    the  nitjimtl 
phv-siojgnom'y  the    native,   it    is  evident  that  lo 
inquisitorial  an  act  could  only  have  originiied  in 
the  inquisition  itself.    Feeble  or  partial  attemptt 
might  previously  have  existed,  for  we  learn  thU 
the  monks  had  a  part  of  their  libraries  called  the 
inferno^  which  was  not  the  part  which  they  Icat 
visited,  for  it  contained,  or  hid,  all  the  pfohibHed 
books  which  they  could  smuggle  into  it.    But  tfaii 
inquisitorial  power  assumedits  most  formidabk 
shape  in  the  council  of  1*rent,  when  some  glooonr 
spirits  from  Rome  and  Madrid,  where  they  areftiU 
governing,  foresaw  the  revolution  of  this  new  afe 
of  books.    The  triple-crowned  pontiff  had  in  raw 
rolled  the  thunders  of  the  Vatican,  to  strike  out 
of  the  hands  of  all  men  the  volumes  of  Wicklitle, 
of  Huss,  and  of  Luther,  and  even  menaced  tbe^ 
eager  readers  with  death.   At  thb  council  Pius  IV. 
was  presented  with  a  catalogue  of  books  of  wluch 
they  denounced  that  the  perusal  ought  to  be  fat- 
bidden :  his  bull  not  onlv  confirmed  this  list  of 
the  condemned,  but  addea  rules  how  books  ^ould 
be  judged.    Subsequent  popes  enlarged  these  cats- 
logues,  and  added  to  the  rules,  as  the  monstrous 
novelties  started  up.    Inquisitors  of  books  were 
appointed ;  at  Rome  they  consisted  of  certain  car- 
dinals and  "  the  master  of  the  holy  palace  ;*'  and 
literary  inquisitors   were   elected    at    Madrid,  at 
Lisbon,  at  Naples,  and  fur  the  Low  Countries; 
they  were  watching  the  ubiquity^  of  the  human 
mind.    These  catalogues  of  prohibited  books  were 
called  Indexes ;  and  at  Rome  a  body  of  these  lite- 
rary  despots  are  still  called  "  the  Congregation  of 
the  Index."    Ilie  simple  Index  is  a  list  of  con- 
demncd  ))ooks  never  to  be  opened  ;  but  the  Ex' 
purgatory  Index  indicates  those  only  prohibited 
till  they  have  undergone  a  purification.     No  book 
was  to  be  allowed  on  any  subject,  or  in  any  Ian- 
guage,  which  contained  a  single  position,  an  am- 
biguous sentence,  c^'en  a  word,  which,  in  the 
most  distant  sense,  could  be  cotutrued  oppoute  to 
the  doctrines  of  the  supreme  authority  of  this 
council  of  Trent ;  where  it  seems  to  hiave  been 
enacted,  that   all     men,  literate   and    illiterate, 
prince  and  peasant,  the  Italian,  the  Spaniard,  and 
the  Netherlander,  should  take  the  mint-stamp  of 
their  thoughts  from  the  council  of  Trent,  and 
millions  of  souls  be  struck  off  at  one  blow,  out  of 
the  same  used  mould. 

The  sages  who  compiled  these  Indestes,  indeed. 


LICESSERS  OF  THE  PRESS. 


dUiRDtljr  rcpnpicd  Ihcm  with  ampte  pRfuo  and 

tfcdxd  AD  Judex  witb  due  »iiiiudirerHDU.  The 
puUct  made  *n  oppoulc  lue  of  Ihem :  while  fhe 
Cilholic  cnHcd  himKlf  at  cvciy  lille,  the  heretic 


often  djjunetriol 

sra 

n  irotki  pluei]  In  the  komin  Index ;  vhile  the 
[iibilor  of  Nipla  wu  w  diipkued  v^th  the 
inl«h  Index,  thit  he  pcniiled  1o  uttn,  that  it 

an  by  iniMing  Uut  ill  the  itatlil  ihauld  wn 
«t  frDin  Ibeir  t^nloni,  ended  by  not  igreelng 
:h  thenuelvei.    A  civil  wn  nged  unong  the 


d'nlTw 


eDundAirn',  and  i 

I  to  Blue  the  whole  wurk  In  the 

ronqemnea  ivt.   Tneinqulfitonat  length  became 

limp  evprevcd  in  their  llcenec  for  pTinlingp  that 
'  they  talented  the  nading,  alto-  the  IxxA  had 
xen  corrected  by  themKlva,  till  nch  time  as  the 

— t.  .1 — .1.. "leieil  worthy  of  tome  trthet 

Lpuraatory  tndem  excited 
ID  tKoae  which  simply  cnn- 


*Mhe  executionen  of  booki,"  by  omitting,  or 
interpolating  pavigei,  made  an  author  uy,  or 
uniay,  what  the  InuuisilDn  choie  i  and  their 
editioni,  after  the  deitb  of  the  authon,  were  com- 

the  bgoka  which  an  author  leavei  behind  bim, 
wjlh  hit  IM  correction),  are  like  hi>  iail  will  and 
testament,  and  the  public  ate  the  le^timate  bdn 

s'tl^fMgii"'!; 

must  ineviubly  draw  oH  the  I'ife-bkiod,  and  leate 
■n  author  a  mere  ipecEre  I  A  book  In  Spjun  and 
Potiural  paaKi  through  >ix  or  Kvch  count  before 
It  can  be  published,  anil  it  luppoted  to  recomniend 
Hielfby  the  Information,  that  it  ii  published  with 
M  the  necciuty  pnvilegn.    They  would  fome- 

■■pmperly  qujlitied  them,  niKrim  ji  taltfi^n," 
fnglii  at  the  gripe  of  "the  master  of  the  hOly 


hat  conlined  most  of  thclt  authon  to  the  body  of 
thegood  biheis  themselves^ 

SoDia  had  occupied  bis  leaiont  bboun  for  twenty 
lire  yean,  and  were  favouiaWy  received  by  the 

this  tribunal  of  criticinn  and  religion,  at  suspected 
of  heretical  opiniont ;  when  the  accuier  did  not 
lucceed  beftite  the  inquiutonof  Madrid,  he  catted 
the  charge  to  that  Of  Liibon ;  an  in)nnction  wai 


the  poet  and  himKlf.    The  Comme 


Ibenwere  cither  immacubte.  or  historians  false. 
The  Hittoryof  Guicciardini  it  still  scarred  with 
the  mercilev  wound  of  the  pajnstic  eenpor ;  and  a 
curious  account  of  the  ori^n  and  increase  nf  papal 
power  wai  loiu  wanting  in  Ibe  third  and  Fourth 
book  of  hb  betory.  Velly^  History  of  France 
would  have  been  an  admirable  work,  had  it  not 

under  the  eyes  of  the  cuiious,  they  emplot-cd  the 

The  hlstoiy  of  these  literary  conflagrations  has 
often  been  traced  by  writers  of  appnslie  parties  ^ 
for  the  truth  is.  that  both  used  them :  lealoti  seem 

party,    The>'  bad  yet  to  learn,  that  burning  waa 


Eraimus'i  Coilofluiei  intrigued   to   procure  th 


practice^   to  testify  hii  abhorrence  of  'nndal's 
principles,  whr>  bad  printed  a  translation  of  the 

thotight  of  purehaiinjE  all  the  copiei  of  Tindal'i 


ofT.ndal.an 


happened  to  he  a 


to  make  a  new  one  1  he  furnished 
:)paseuerly  bought,  and  had  them 


i** 


258 


LICENSERS  OF  THE  PRESS, 


voliime.  that  the  ncamtl  edition  wa»  sought  after 
dt  an>  priuc ;  aiul  when  one  of  the  Tindaiists,  who 
wa^  sent  here  to  <«ell  them,  was  promised  b>'  the 
lord  chanccllur  in  a  private  examination,  that  he 
should  not  sutler  if  he  would  reveal  who  encouraged 
and  supported  hit  partv  <it  Antwerp,  the  Tindali^t 
immciliately  aciepted  the  otier,  and  a««ured  the 
lord  chancellor  that  the  greatest  cnconriigement 
they  liad  wa^  from  1  onsiall,  the  Bishop  of  London, 
who  liad  lKiut;ht  up  half  the  imprev>ion,  and 
enabled  them  to  produce  a  second  ! 

In  the  reign  of  Henry  VIII.  wc  seem  to  hare 
burnt  books  on  both  Mde^ ;  it  was  an  age  of  un- 
i>ettled  ftpinions  ;  in  Edward's  the  Catholic  works 
were  burnt;  and  Mary  had  her  pyramids  of  Pro- 
testant volumes ;  in  Kli/al>eth'«i,  political  pamphlets 
fed  the  tiamcs  ;  and  lit)els  in  the  reign  of  James  I. 
and  his  sons. 

Such  was  tliis  black  dwarf  of  literature,  generated 
by  Italian  craft  and  Spanish  monkery,  which, 
ho\\cver,  >\.is  fcmdly  adopted  as  it  crept  in  among 
all  the  n  itions  of  Eunipe.  France  cannot  exactly 
(ix  on  the  a"ra  of  her  Cenuuts  de  Liirres ;  and  wc 
our!H:hes,  who  gave  it  its  death-blow,  found  the 
cuMom  prevail  >^ithout  any  authority  from  our 
M.itiites.  The  practice  of  licensing  books  was 
iin(|aesiton:ibly  derived  from  the  inquisition,  and 
was  applied  here  fir^t  to  l)Ooks  of  religicm.  Britain 
lon^  groaned  under  the  leaden  stamp  of  an 
/mpnmutur,  and  long  witnessed  men  of  geuiiu 
eitlVr  suriering  the  \igon>us  limbs  of  their  pro- 
ductiiins  to  l)e  shamefully  mutilated  in  public,  or 
vnluntanly  committing  a  Hterary  suicide  in  their 
own  inaiiuscnpts.  Camden  declared  that  he  was 
not  sullercd  to  print  all  liis  Elizabeth,  and  sent 
thi»se  passages  over  to  De  Thou,  the  French 
historian,  who  printed  his  histor>-  faithfully  two 
>ears  after  Camden's  first  edition,  1615.  I'hesamc 
happened  to  Lord  Herliert's  History  ot  Henry  VIII., 
which  has  never  been  given  according  to  the 
original.  In  the  Poems  of  Lord  Brooke,  we  find  a 
lacuna  of  the  tipit  twenty  pages  :  it  was  a  poem  on 
Kcli;;ion,  caiuxlled  by  the  onler  of  Archbisliop 
Laud.  T'he  great  Sir  M.itthew  Hale  onlered  that 
none  itf  his  works  should  t>e  printed  after  Uu  | 
death ;  as  he  apprehended,  that,  in  the  liceuting  j 
of  them,  Mime  things  might  lie  struck  out  or  | 
altered,  which  he  had  observed,  not  without  stjinc 
indignation,  had  been  done  to  those  ot  a  learned 
friend ;  anrl  he  preferred  bequeathing  liis  uncor- 
rupted  Mss.  to  the  Society  of  Lincoln':!  Inn,  as 
their  only  guardians ;  lioping  that  they  were  a 
treasure  wotth  keeping.  Contemporary  authors 
ha\e  frequent  allusions  to  such  books,  imperfect 
anil  mutilated  at  the  caprice  or  the  violence  of  a 
licenser. 

The  laws  of  England  have   never  violated  the 
freedom  and  the  dignity  ol  its  press.    "There  is 
no  law  to  prexent   the   printing  of  any  IxxA  in  ' 
England,  only  a  decree  in  the  Star-chainl>er,"  said  i 
the  learned  Selden.*      Proclamations  were  occa- 1 
sionally   ivsued  against  authors  and   lN>oks;   and  | 
foreign  works  were,  at  time's,  prohibited.    'Ilie  , 
freedom  of  the  press  was  rather  circumvented,  than 
openly  attacked,  in  the  reign  of  Eli/.alieth,  who 
dreaded  the  Roman  Catholics  who  were  at  once  I 


♦  Sir  niinmas  Crew's  Collection  of  the  Proceed- 
ings of  the  Rirliament,  i6aH,  p.  71. 


disputing  her  right  to  the  throne,  and  the  nrli^ 
of  the  state.  Foreign  pul>licatfons,  or  "hooU 
from  any  parts  beyond  the  seas,"  were  therefbit 
prohibited.*  The  prcvs  howe\er,  «a«  not  bee 
under  the  reign  of  a  sovereign,  who»e  higMMK^ 
feelings,  and  the  exigencies  of  the  times  readcieii 
as  despotic  in  li/edtt  as  the  p.tcilic  James  was  li 
'ufords.  Although  the  prena  hail  then  no  restrkiiom, 
an  autlior  was  always  at  the  mercy  of  the  |^cn> 
ment.  Elizabeth  too  had  a  keen  'scent  after  «lut 
she  called  treason,  which  she  allowed  u»  take  ia  a 
large  compass.  She  condemned  one  author  fvith 
his  publisher)  to  have  the  hand  cut  od  «hidi 
wrote  his  book;  and  she  hanged  anotha.t  li  I 
was  Sir  Francis  Bacon,  or  his  father,  who  odcc 
pleasantly  turned  aside  the  keen  edsc  of  ber  rcg^ 
vindictivcness ;  for  when  EUzahetn  was  inquiring 
w  hether  an  author,  whoiie  book  she  had  given  him 
to  examine,  was  not  guilty  of  treason,  he  replied, 
"  Not  of  treason,  madam  ';  hut  of  rohber>,  11  you 
please  ;  for  he  has  taken  all  that  is  wnrth'aoCiciii| 
in  him  from  Tacitus  and  Sallust."  With  Cbe  <car 
of  Eli/^bcth  before  his  eyes,  Holinsbed  caitiatei 
the  volumes  of  his  History'.  When  Giles  netckier, 
after  his  Russian  embasbv,  congratulated  hiomlf 
with  having  escaped  with  his  ocad,  and,  on  bis 

*  The  consequence  of  this  prohibition  wasthA 
our  own  men  of  learning  were  at  a  loss  to  know 
what  arms  tlie  enemies  of  England,  and  of  her 
religion,  were  fabricating  against  us.  This  was 
absolutely  neceuary,  wliich  appears  by  a  curious 
fact  in  Strype's  Life'  of  Wliitgift :  there  we  lind  a 
licence  for  the  importation  of  foreign  books, 
granted  to  an  Italian  mercliant,  w  bo  was  to  collect 
abroad  this  sort  of  libels;  but  he  was  to  deposit 
them  with  the  archbishop  and  the  privy  council, 
&c.  A  few,  no  doubt,  were  obtained  b\  the 
curioiLs,  Catholic  or  Protestant.  Stripe's  Life  of 
Whiigitt,  p.  ab8. 

t  The  author,  with  his  publisher,  who  had  their 
right  liands  cut  oii',  was  John  Stubbs  of  Lincoln's 
Inn,  a  htii -headed  Puritan,  whose  sister  was  married 
toThom.is  Cartwright,  the  head  of  that  faction. 
Tliis  execution  took  place  upon  a  scatfbld,  in  the 
market-place  at  Westminster.  After  Stubbs  bad 
his  right  hand  cut  ott,  with  his  left  he  pulled  oft 
his  hat,  and  cried  with  a  loud  voice,  **  God  sarc 
tlie  cjueeii !"  the  multitude  sunding  deeply  sik&t. 
either  out  of  horror  at  this  new  and  unwonted 
kind  of  punishment,  or  else  out  of  commiseratiOD 
of  the  man,  whose  character  was  unblemished. 
Camden,  who  was  a  witness  to  thu  transaction, 
has  related  it.  The  author,  and  the  |mater,  and 
the  publisher,  were  condemned  to  this  barbarous 
punishment,  on  an  act  of  Philip  and  Marj',  agaimtt 
tht  authott  and  publuhirt  nf  uditioyt  vfritingt, 
.Some  lawyers  were  honest  enough  to  assert,  that 
the  sentence  was  erroneous,  for  that  act  was  only 
a  temporary  one,  and  died  with  Queen  Mary  ;  but, 
of  these  honest  lawyers,  one  was  sent  to  thcTower, 
an<l  another  was  so  sharply  reprimanded,  that  he 
resigned  his  place  as  a  judge  in  the  common  pleas. 
Other  liwyers,  as  the  lord  chief  justice,  who 
fawned  on  the  prerogative  far  more  then  than  in 
the  Stuart-reigns,  averted,  that  Queen  Mary  was  a 
king ;  and  that  an  act  made  by  any  king,'  unless 
repealed,  must  always  exist,  because  the  King  of 
England  never  dies  I 


LICENSERS  OP  THE  PRESS. 


nwfchtDli  were  rrietitcned,  tor  rtw j-  petitioned  the 
qiietn  lo  tuppTCB  [be  work ;  the  origiiul  petitiun 


n  ineulboreml 

thciutbor^  bead  off;  '"IliM  I  cannot  do,"  replied 
the  v>veieiM  of  1  free  people ;  "  hut,  K  you  please, 
t  will  leU  Kim  wlul  >'ou  ny,  aixl  he  AiU  put  il 


TIk  legulir  ei 


wthept 


pect,  iDcllned  to  il ;  for,  bvi panige  in 

■cript  letter  of  ibe  ti■ne1^  I  find,  thit  wben  Chiric* 
printed  hk  uccch  on  the  dinoLutioa  of  the  pu- 
liimoil,  «bKb  eiiited  lucb  genenl  dbcoDlent, 
lome  one  pTjated  Queen  Elizabeth'!  lait  ipeech  ai 
■  conipHiioil  piece.    Hiis  vu  preienled  to  the 

political  mDrive,  but  merely  by  way  of  eomplainl 
that  anotber  bad  printed,  without  kave  or  liceue, 
that  which,  m  the  king^  pTinlet.  he  aaerud  wh 
^'if  own  com-rigbl-  Chailei  d«a  tiot  appear  to 
iTC  been  pleaKd  with  tbe  0ft,  and  obaerved. 

and  prayS 

penecutioD 

pubiiihcn,  under  the  govemmeikt  of  Chartet  J,, 
thoK  who  became  noted  for  what  was  then  called 

publisher  of  Pr>'nne'a  " ; 

into  Ibis  subject.     TEit  Pmb)-t« 


ollbeMchimbei,' 
king,  because  they  might 


:d  books-"    Sparkei 


entlycr 


Mitheu 


freedom,  on  the  contran-,  niKtn'ered 
as  tenderly  alive  to  tbe  ofTice  as  the  old 
r,  and  maintained  it  wiih  theextremeM 

CTV}'  Otte  of  Vilton  wu  remarkable :  hii 


the'iepubli! 


fnun  life,  which  be  bad  introduced  into  bis  Hitlnry 

Hilton  gave  tbe  nnbceucd  paauget  to  the  Earl  of 
Anglesey,  a  literary  noblcntau,  the  editor  at  wbiie- 
lock's  Memorials ;  and  the  castrated  panage,  which 
could  not  be  licensed  in  1670,  was  received  with 
peculiar  interest  wben  Kpanlely  published  in 
t6Si.*  "If  there  be  found  in  an  author^  book 
one  sentence  of  a  irentroui  edge,  uttered  in  the 
height  of  zeal,  and  who  knows  whether  it  might 
not  be  the  dictate  of  1  dltine  ipirit,  yet  not  raiting 
creiy  low  decrepid  humour  of  their  own,  chey  will 
notnardon  him  their  dash." 

Tbi9  office  Kcmi  to  hare  lain  dcrmanl  a  tboit 
lime  under  ctomwiU,  ftom  the  anupls  of  a 
consdeotlnu  UceiHer,  who  deaiied  Ibe  council  of 
SUte  in  l&4f,  for  leasoni  giren,  to  be  discharged 
•a.  ei'ideotlv  .      -      "         ■  ■ 


wa>  ei'idently  deeply  touched  by  Hilton's 
lor  "The  Liberty,  of  Unlicensed  Printing, 

reprinted 


and  lliroDgh  the  lelgn  of  Jame 
Cage's  "  Sun-er  *^  llwweM  : 


nilly  comisted  of  twenty-two  chiplen,  in  itifll 
and  16C3,  with  a  dedication  to  fir  Thomas  Fairfan, 
-in  J&17,  alter  expunging  Ibe  paasages  in  hanour 
I  FalTfai,  tbe  dedicalioB  Is  dexlemiiily  turned 
ilo  a  piebce ;  and  the  twenl)'-seCDnd  chapter 
eing  obnoxious  Inr  containing  particulan  ttf  the 
rtitKca  of  "the  pipaliirs,"*  in  con^Trting  tbe 
ulhor,  was  entirely  chopped  aniy  by  the  licenser") 
atcbet.  The  caitimled  chapter,  as  usual,  was  pre- 
?rY-ed  afterwards  separately.  Literary  despotism 
1  least  is  shortsighted  in  its  views^  for  the  expe^ 


ton's  character  o(  Ihe  LongPj 
Ter  befatt  printed,  am 

Km  on  the  Pnityirtia 
Hisraty  of  the  tniipmJtnli  1  a 
"hninble  eharacten  of  the  hit 

1WI  of  tbe  Piobyterian  adir 
T  to  Milton  calls  the  Papists 


56o  irCEXSESS  OF  THE  PRESS. 

ot  die  noMefl  *nd  mem  ekniuenl  pn»»*r  romnni-  vitboul  1  vuibk  iiilor  in  Iheir  tiUe ;  oor  it  it  i 
tiaiual  Milioai  "(he  Am^if;i1kci ;  1  Spcci^n  tor '  Ibc commDti people  le*ibui  trcpnuch:  btritv. 
tbc  Liberty  of  t'nliccDfo]  printing."  It  ii  i  vdA.  due  doi  tnat  ihrm  Tilh  n  Eoicl^  pamphlet, 
of  loi'e  and  iiupimion,  Imathing  the  mcAt  n- '-  vbat  do  ire  bul  cenHire  them  far  ■  giddy,  «i'-^ — 

Ur|red  ^irit  of  litcnluTc ;  tcpatitini;,  'i  ui  Awfu]    and  imeimmdcd  people,  in  fuch  '  vch  >Qil  , 

diaWKcfimn  ibe  nuKitude.  thil  cbinctct "  vho  ,  Hiceof  fiilh  ind  dixielioii.  uta  be  ibte  la  Ijke 
w*s  bom  to  itudT  anil  la  love  learning  for  iBclf.    oathiDg  but  thru'  the  glinei-pipe  of  a  IkoH  '" 
Dotibr  lucie,  or  any  other  end,  bul,  perbapi,  tor  [ 
thallaniog  fame  jnd  perpeiuiEy  of  prajie,  whicb  I     Tbe  IfnonDce  an]  ttupidily  of  tbae  ct 

tbc  end  of  mankinil."                                                   ISalan  Willi  (he  (iHng  nin.  in  the  fim  book  of  Ibe 
One  pan  of  thii  unpinlleled  eAuion  tium  on    ParjdiK  Loo,  bad  neirly  acciuoned  tbc  ui 


little  Fact%  ejsuaUv  pTtieTved,  of  the  inepuitide  of   n  Bdwd  and  EJeanora  vai  rwl  permitted  to  be 
tuch  AD  officer,  performed,   bein^  cDUudered  a  pajty  iFork.  ov 

dcalb  oTbouki,  whiliKr  thev  ma"  be  wifled  into  .  P''-''  "  'I  <be.«'ne  I^Jicament  In-  behif  in  (bl 
thi*  K'orld  or  not,  bid  neei  to  lie  a  man  above  '  Hinc  bandutntmi;?     The  French  bare  TeiuDed 

him,  there  Mnat  be  a  more  lediou.  aud  unplea>-    »""  T""""     ' ' '-""."thi-  «  t-i. 

IIS^.Thl.'^^^   ihan  K''."ni..lf°the"perpetni1    pm'ed. 

iphfew.    There   ^™7j  l!,'J,bJ;I;,',heV™E«> 


K  able  to  enduEV' i  vmeihin)!:,  which,  on  Ibe  pTitKlpte  of  iDcongmity 


pedieoguc.  miHt  nut  he  uttered  uilbout  the  cui-  P""^  '  »"*.  J™""  '»  conUined  pniKiplei 

iotynaatatemMi^iii^lieenxr?   Ulicnaman  "^STTa'",' V      trf'^'           "  imh  """a"" 

»i  deliberluilffl'hi  ,aai"Smri«''*-mlin.  meX  »/™n<;l™'"i.  "  1  eannoi  permit  the  publicaiioo 

talc^hind<■M^ODS«ld likely couullaiiHlcnnliir.  ■,?i.°'''^;''',|J^^I^°"- ^^'''^'''^^JS.Jk"* 

orhi«li<kllR'llldrifn^^?^.^]?*^il!d!wt',  yiH«aUu.i..n>    if  >aur  work  appeared.  f^»M 

iwliirmerpnuror  bkabililie9i,cui  brttiB  him  to  mjfceeneminof  all  thme  "ho  hod,  by  crooked 

that  Kale  of  imhuttT,  ai  not  u  be  Kill  niittrwted  ""yi, »»  euier  admiiiante  inia  court  iban  by  a 

i  and ntpeclcd. utiles  he  canv  all  h»  coTKidcraie  ■"■H"  line.    Con^der  then  number!      Attbi. 

r  diUi;nicc,allhumi.liiiiEbtvucbintf.uidei>peiHe  "wmei"  ihe  cenam  m  Au^na  appear  uugulnly 

I  afMlidianoll.  latbeGjMi'tie«^anuiik>>arcd  "«P'l  !"■  nol  Kwg  »go.  thev  cotideouKd  a 

I  Hcenvr,  peihap-  much  Ml  younger,  petbap  (ar  IlXri'L'^a  n^    rirSir  """he  ^^"^"^ 

S?^!iwSr''MZSk-S^i'S!Jj°7Jid'*'l('IS'be™i  iiolUlaw'io'be'prinwd.be.'auKther.™9.wbich 

Rpuhed  ot  iJigbled,  miM  appear  in  prim  like  a  be  imagiiied  la  be  mcludnl  in  tnOTnometn-,  ■•> 

PuDie  witb  hn  KuardUn.  andfiw  cenWi  bind  on  If  Pf^'"^  "*  **,  <'«"«J  ■"••>  'h»  "'m.  on 

tbc  back  of  bir  tide  to  be  h»  hail  and  Hiretv  thai  tbe      Dill'wimn  ^  /Bjrtlj,      he   inruled   had   a 

behnoidiolor  lediiceti  it  canitot  be  bot  *  die  «ven  alluiuin  lolbe  a™i«,  iiho,  be  CBweli-ed, 

honour  and  dera«atioIl  lo  the  aulhnt.  to  the  book.  "^rlittJu^meravaBmlffl?!™  been  lecotded  U 

tlDl      pnukgci        '^''^        ■  rning.  ii^  learned  Kichaiil  Simon,    Compelled  to  iunt 

•  The  reader  miy  r»w  foUow  ibe  Mre»m  in  Ibe  in  one  of  hui>«k><hequalifvineoi»nian>af  the 

•  pnt  onipnal :  I   muH,   howeier,  prwrre  one  j^^  ^  ,hi  sorbonoe.lu  inserted  them  within 


OF  ASAGHAMS  ASD  ECHO  VERSES. 


marfci :  bjr  which  mcuv  the  enngrd  luthor  uw 
triaowD  pccbUiT  Mlnidni  ovcminud  in  the  very 
TCifc  wrhten  lo  nulnt^n  Ihcm  ! 

Tbew  ILppeu  trifling  minutis ;  aiid  yet,  like  a 
hair  ini  wjOch, which  utterly deatroyiitiprDgreH, 
llwtc  little  incptic  al>liged  writen  to  have  Tecmnc 
to  (bvci^  prenefti  tompelkd  >  Honlewiuku  to 
write  «dh  concealed  ambiguity,  and  many  to  tjgn 


tiona  DHLiily  prove  the  force  of  authotity,  nlhtr 
than  the  change  of  opinion,    when  a  Dr.  Kxk' 

bit  the  etrtnoloey  of  the  word,  while  he  caught  at 

irc4n'«  it  to  sing  j^iin."  So  that  he  rechanted  hit 
oArnding  opinions,  by  Tepealing  Ihem  in  hia  rf- 

At  the  re^'Olulinn  in  Euglaitd,  lieensei  Cor  the 
prcH  ceased ;  but  iti  Hberty  did  not  commence 

tirm  and  decisirc  tone  of  the  commoiu.  It  was 
mnted,  lays  wir  ptiilMcipbic  Hume,  "tothegrot 
dbpteasuTC  of  the  king  and  hi»  miniuen,  who, 
KOng  noohere,  in  any  government  duiin^  present 

dom,  doubted  much  of  ili  ulutaiy  eflecti  \  and. 
prohaUy.  tfooDght  that  no  hooka  or  writinp  would 

And  tne  present  moment  verifla  the  nreseient 
conjecture  or  ibe  philosopher.  Such  is  the  licen- 
tlouanesii  of  our  prcia,  that  some,  not  perhaps  the 


lumniated.  and  eipected  future  libels-    1  am  glad, 

imparllal  inveillgation.  confeued  that  luch  a 
remedy  wai  much   more  dan^cioua  than  the 

only  be  the  intereit  of  the  indiviiloal,  never  that  of 
the  public  1  one  must  be  a  patriot  here :  wc  must 
stand  in  the  6elil  with  an  unihielded  breast,  since 
the  lalitlv  oTthe  people  it  Ibe  lupreRie  law.  There 
were,  in  Hilton'i  days,  some  wlw  said  of  ttUa  in- 
BdlDtion.  that,  although  the  inventonwcR  had, 
the  thing,  (brail  that,  might  be  good.  "This  may 
be  so."  replies  the  vehement  adrecate  fiw  "  un- 
licensed printing."  Bnt  as  the  commonwealths 
have  eiisted  through  all  ages,  and  hive  ForbBme 

and  held  it  aa  a  dangerous  anJiuaF^ciout  fruit  fnrni 
the  tree  which  bore  it.    The  nq/n  of  the  wisest 

lectcd,  were  iwl  diseased  with  the  popular  inlec- 
tion  of  pubUcatioEU^  ining  at  all  noun,  and  pro- 


dom  of  Che  pr^  aa  the  s(?e  organ  of  the  Icelinga 
of  the  people.    Calomnlators  be  will  leave  to  Ikie 

having  otercharged  their  arms  with  tlie  telle 
tenlions,  find  that  the  death  which  the) 
tended  for  othen.  In  hunting,  only  annihilata 


must  suhmil  to  be  guided  by  the  literary  hb- 

Xip^a  condemns  fSiz  Symonds  D'Ewes  for  his 
admiration  of  two  an^rams.  expresut'e  of  the  Ag- 
ings of  the  times.    It  required  the  valour  of  Fal- 

tctided  English  Ba^  thou|^l  himself  secure,  in 

pronouncing  all  aiugiammalislfl  to  be  wantjni;  Id 


SymondaO'Ewes'sjudgmenland  taste,  with  rceanl 

gined,  will  be  evident  from  the  following  paiaage 
taken  from  his  accouot  of  Carr  Eari  of  HonieTsel, 
and  his  wile  i '  This  discontent  gave  many  satirical 

[stinging]  libeh,  in  which  they  ^ared  lidther  tlte 
pemcnnnDTfamiliesofthalunfiinunatepait.  There 
canK  also  two  anagraiiH  to  my  hands,  ft*/ (jjKf  01 

were,  one  very  descriptive  of  the  lady  ;  and  the 
other,  of  an  Incident  m  which  this  inOimoua  wo- 
man was  so  deeply  criminitcd. 


OF  A.VAOBAMS  AXD  ECHO  VERSES. 


ssrnbc  Brnc  pcrtou]  chanclc^i^tif , 


AcnoiTic  ingefllcui;  for  thh  la  Dotbia^  but  4  m 


ct  Ihis  Utenjy  foUj  long  prcvaikd  in  Europe, 


LfCDphron  hu  left  lomc  oa  rcconl :  two  o 
PtoJonlEUf  Philulelphui»  King  Id*  He>'pt,  «Tld  h 
Ouecn  At>in«e.    IIk  king"  °»n«  ">  *">  »°' 

nrOAEMAioi, 


AP2IN0H. 

'HmMr.      ll'NO'l  VTOIET. 

LHTnine,  which  rei'ived  under  Prandi  the  ?int 
n  FniKC.  did  nol  dhdain  to  cutttimie  thi<  «n>li 

fiiTtbH  BiHei. Ihitminr 'iHitriDu'^iMriliVKnt 

^i1>oiiTeuT»  the  bi^OTilD.W  rzmmfiy  pJrued 


u  piclieii  out  of  her  title ;  i 


The  uuhippf  bivtory  or  Muy  Queen  of  Sant, 
K  deprivation  of  her  kingdom^  >iid  her  riotent 
deaOi,  «etT  expresed  in  Ihu  Ljiin  ipigrflm  : 


a  dK  HoKHOf 


de«ignuion  inhi^  nime,'  ftti 


Qf  Ihe  poel  H'dlbrthe 

ice  in  hii  itrv  irith  In/il  be  i>  cniini-d!" 
mJU  Htbvi.  wbD  hu  •miten  t  TCrr  enrur- 

lete  fnagnms  were  ofttu  deroUd  to  Ibc  ficT' 

IE;  and,  in  prehiing  nme  ekguc   lincA,  di*- 
T9  thit  hi*  tite  iFienil  ctBbive  wu  Cat ;  fot 

qujunt  discorer)',  be  hu  indulged  All  the  ten- 
H  Cm  then  ODhiwi,  or  mi  Cnakmm  C$lt 

:^  Cjr  'i  Cmhiwe^  he  Car  ;  'at  Lore  akuK 
hich  meitt  two  hevti,  of  bothcompotingtme, 

happr  •tugnm  nn  m  poion'.  nime  might 
A  moral  euecl  oo  the  leeljqfp :  at  there  it 

Utr  to  her,  migbl  iBaii  la  «ppoKaiK  aiaa- 


OF  ASAQBAMS  AND  ECHO   VERSES. 


JabD  l>ATia,  the  poet,  wu  a  ray  extraordinj 
cluncICT,  She  wu  the  Cnundra  of  her  i^^  i  ■ 
■ertTi]  of  her  predicrtiDEU  WAfTuitcd  her  lo  i:( 
cdTc  the  wia  *  propheretA.    As  her  prophccia 

■^Bft  Uk  gDveninieql,  »he  w»»  j(  tcng 
bnraj^t  bv  them  into  the  court  of  KighConiEr- 
■im.    The  piupheleu  «a  not  i  liule  mad,  iiul 


poknC  with  her  out  ot  the  Scriptum,  id  nt 
Ihe  ucha,  u)!  He>'lin,  ihot  her  than 


Unjihler.  and  Cuundn  inio  the  ulm«l  drjectio 
of  nlrit.  FoUeil  by  her  owa  weipooi.  her  ulrl 
HuUenl)'  tonaoi.  her  i  uhI  either  ihe  titm  iflci 
wuib  rentatcd  on  prDPheivina.  or  Ihe  naimi 
perpdiulLy  tvmiiuk'il 


pliyful  thm  in  hh  account  of  that  anaonmnu- 
nn,  who,  liter  ihattiog  hlmieir  up  far  hair  a 
yeu,  and  having  taken  certain  liberties  with  the 
name  ot  hii  mbtrc*.  dincotered,  on  pmcnting 
hii  anamm,  thai  he  hail  mispell  her  lununu ; 
by  whiA  he  WB  to  thundeiitrueli  wilh  hit  miii- 

whichiindeed,  hid  hcen  veiy  much  impaired  bi' 

nence  who  died  by  an  anagram  ;  but  by  the  de- 

ung>  ot  Ihe  munali  whom  he  w  palnfuUr  cele- 
btitcd.    Otbcn  ip|>«iii  (0  bm  pctcUwl  Uli  hi 


with  more  facility'.    A  French  poet,  deeply  in  lore, 

4riainry  three  doun  erf  anagrams  on  her  single 

Even  old  Camden,  who  lived  in  the  golden  age 
of  anapaim,  ootlcet  Ihe  ■tUSiilit  tu<r  pulihra,  lEe 

In  them  thatahall  practiieit.  For  some  have  been 
Kcn  lo  bile  their  pen.  Knlch  their  headi.  bend 
Iheir  hrown,  bile  thciT  Hpi,  heat  the  boinl,  tear 
■heir  paper,  when  the  namea  wcit  rair  for  tome- 
whiE.  and  caoghl  rKMbin^  therein."   Such  »a9  Ihe 


pleaaant 


the  wit  o(  llie  maker  proved  lo  be  ai  liarren  at  Ihe 
Jellen  oT  the  name,  (bey  diopped  or  dkartged 
tbem,  raving  with  the  alphabet,  and  racking  Iheir 
witi.  Among  Ihe  RiannKripo  (if  Ihe  giaie  Nr 
Jutiui  Cietar,  one  cannot  but  imile  at  a  bundle 
emphatically  endoned  "Twh."  Ii  ii  a  colkction 
of  these  caurt-anacTanuj  a  renurkable  evidence 
of  thai  ineptitude  to  whkh  mere  fuhioEuble  wit 
can  carry  the  frirolout. 
In  contigniiig  ihii  intellertn 

happy  logelheT. 


onlound  Ihe  m 


wonhin  epigram.  Much  ofiu  merit  wiM  atiie 
(ram  Ihe  aHociatinn  of  idea ;  a  thilcr  can  only 
produce  what  is  trilling,  but  an  decani  mind  may 

which  will  not  easily  be  fttrgntien. 

may  here  be  noticed'    I  have  gli'cn  a  specimen  ol 


have  been  considered  more  conicmpiible  rl 
these,  which,  with  all  Ihclt  kindred,  have  been  a 
Ihemitiied  by  BuHer.ln  hii  e»|iiisile  chararier  Dl 
small  poet  "in  hia  "  Remains"  whom  he  dexri 
■s  *'  tumbling  Ihmuidi  Ibe  hnnp  of  an  anagvar 
and  "  all  UtOiC  pmboh  of    --"    "^    -■-■■      - 


pm'alllng, 
of  Aeit  maki 


lUng  Ihe  iiKcnulty 
ipy  of  EcmiVtuK, 


I,  LiTiuiT  FQLiiiii,  wha 


ORTlIOGRAPffT  OF  PROPER  SAVES. 


in.  print.  piKim 


'ho  in  IhcK  pruchcn,  men  or  vomeik' 


L'>  jitcclcd  (o  the  ^  1:11 


ic  tnilh  a  ih.t  awn  Di1hagnph>-  vu  ■ 


*  An  oUinion,  protubly,  to  Archibald  Anrnirocie, 
thf  fiwl  or  phviLwnl  jbicr  of  ChiTLa  L,  unullv 
(lUcd^rfA),  who  hi<]mquiinl  mth  Aichblshop 


pmon.   In  *  lilcHulm^intiglbEDucbai 
piintcil  HiiJn,  while  in  the  piiaiiug)-  it 


book  or  poen  c>Ui 


it  diflrrrnlLy  .1  dit 
Mibscnplion  hook 

in  hii  Leilcn,  p,  ;).  tfut  he 

icri)/,  butirtovrinbamiiinl  ibe  *■.   Di.  jrtul^, 

iDd  inHH)^  the  HutcHD 


HuiiucFipti  iheiT  I)  «  Urge  < 

.Dd  1630  hy  Jovph  Mtad;  mnd  yrt  In  .11  hi) 
printed  irtten,  .nd  hi«  «'OTkl  crcD  ivithin  thai 
peiioil,  It  u  ipcll  Mtii :  by  vhirh  ugnatuie  n 

ID  lu ;  ii  wu  long  belore  I  dinovtreil  the  kltet- 


ill  lUiBiriw  thia  lubjcrl  bj  the  biiiiinr  of  the 

ting  the  .pclhngof  our  poet'i  uiiK.    One 
great  eibinr  peivMed  in  bii  triumphant  divcorcrj, 

bjr  printing  **atjp»r*,  while  inolhf '  

pirtull/)i(ld,Mdbf«rr,-  but  .11  | 


pasuge  in  a  contemjionrT  u-ntir.  aho  1 
ibiname  to  a  conceit  o^hitoB-n,  o(  lb 

ibal  pemnil  mnia  -ere  UTiiien  bv  the 


would  oolv 
■ted  from  J 


yAXEs  OF  oun  streets. 


son  siimtiftn  in  the  rtaaa  of  sintfaril  cIj 
hUfAiilj^niiitlicboayarhlswUl.biilltu 

' ■  '-  -ndoBeit  Mr.  ShatttpmU  wlil.    . . . 

—  •-'-  -ime  in  two  different  win. 
'.    Mt.  Cobnin  ny>  ihc 


RAWky*!  ume   wu  ipet 

it  Riiegh,  lULeiAh,  RawLcLgh,  RlweJcv,  and  Rawif  ; 
ttav  kit  M  which  It  km  procrvfl  its  pronvncl!!- 
ticn.  Thlt  wnu  man .  wtwn  t'oung,  Appein  to 
iUTc  ntwcrilKd  hi>  nunc  "  Walter  Rduvlfjr  of  tbc 
WddJe  Temple"   id  k  copf  nF  terao.  printed 

glut,  la  OeoT^  Gascolgne'B  Worka,  1576.  sir 
Walter  wa*  (ben  KTDvnE9Tnd«il,ind  thetc  veraei, 
halb  bt  their  ipint  uui  lignUnre,  cinnot  Iill  to 

eritio  bave  not  mel  diewhere  wilh  bli  name  Ihui 
written.    The  oithocpy  of  the  name  of  Ihii  creat 

Sir  Walter  wai  Arst  Intntilnced  to  Jamefl  I-»  on 
— (—J  ..j.[|  jn  oppo^lion  party,  he  wa*  no  fa. 
!  teotliih  monarch  jfare  him  Ihis  broad 


reception  r  "  Riwlyl  Kiwij^l 
tbiokol  ihee  very  K«uf|'  mi 
enigma  conlaliwd  In  a  ifisrlc 


loflhiieiitnoniln. 


real  proDunclatlon 
,  and  the  word  of 


■ettled  orthncraphy;  and  even  a(  a  ialer  period, 
might  be  ihown,  have  been  equaliy  pnizled  how 
Wartons,  wlurtoni,  lie. 


Loan 


if  the  I 


tncb  wort,  and  iwpect  the  vivaciov 

n.t'll.uiBingwDrk.. 

:tcd  by  hii  lonlihi| 


writer  illnded  In  Mi  mi 
which  the  jjan  It  IhU 


events.  That  antiquary  skimmed  everything, 
and  gnspcd  Karcdy  anylbing :  he  wanted  (be 
patience  of  reieirch,  and  ibe  keen  apirii  whicb 
nvivilin  the  past.    Bhoiild  Lord  Oiford's  prcrjcct 

l^nnant  be  hereafter  improved,  <t  would  he  Ni 


BUHttiK^-htU  WB  Bateunl^^liall,  Horn  one 
honui  Bikewell!  and  originilly  called  Bailng-i- 
■bf  A,  from  a  considerable  famUy  of  that  name, 

g,  and   whoe   name  ia  itili   perpetuated   in 


frrr/,  ai  ^mueL  Clarke  dale«  it  (rom  hii  study 


plaint  it  as  frvrarM  [or  idle  people}  lyin^ 
inaway  leadingtogiFdeu.  It  was  Ihc 
thesefisiiorj,ot"niiKbnrbefflan."    Tht 


ground  by  a  river  tide. 

Gatlry-iry  baa  preseived  Itt  Pan 

nopolis,"  tays,  '*  here  dwelt  straii 
Uj-mtn.  who  broughl  wine,  tc„  I 

S^tWaciaut  cd.'or'lo  7be  merr] 

ArMnwU  waa  St.  BrtJial''^vll, 
cated  to  Saiot  Bride,  or  Bridgcl. 

MaryiwH  waa  St.  M.iry.«/i-lbf'E 
to  Mmj^imri  a  IIMtm  was  llh 


rnt,  corrupted 
It  Kn^isb  rijr 


l66      PECRKT  HfSTORY  OF  EDWARD   VERE,  EASL  OF  OXFORD. 

rliEin.  ohich,  in  ClIhoLic  ■Ui-'.  had  lUXld  their,  B 
IlKJonl  wrilo  to  Hemic  J  anJ  ht  »»I«.  Ihlt  Iht 
fmiucnl  -ifti  of  the  ilmiiit-lu^J  ■  ■•  dciiFcd  (mm 
"our  DdiVbcuJ," 


■li'ii ;    1  put  of  the  fadlHni 


ihe  Adf/'  hu  Ibil  pubtP  (Ml  "  ibc  boilv-makm 

Uhk  llwul  Lonflon.  T^lt  knily  rt  mil  ptEnprml 
up  in  the  \trf  ilnim'  of  *xc^  He  lh«I  «rnc 
fenic  >-urv  vKtaau  ihoiiLd  h«vc  juked  ifln  ■  /"rrf  d- 

cittuT  liiih  DT  flnfa." 


fooncd  Ihm ;  Ihenrc  ihr  Mnnjce  romipllon, 

Smuliftld  a  I  comiiiliin  of  AnHiWfUj  imilb 
il^llici  unootb.  fmm  the  Baitin  jmc*^.  An  u- 
tiquirun  Incn4  h4*Ken  LI  dncnbcit  in  1  dcrd  h 
rw^'f^M,  which  ctraiinn^  Itir  DrlgiLul  me*n- 
ing,    II  u  <lc>cnbi»l  In  FLk  SInbni'i  nrcruni  of 

pliia  Held,  both  in  mfiiy  inil  lumc,  when  erciy 
Fii^iy  IheR  i*  ■  celcbnird  TendeiniiH  nf  Hof 

hotM.  bTXfU|thl  hither  to  be  urid.    l^itherromu 
to  look  at  bur,  a  gmt  nuRih^  of  enh,  bjnini. 


vHh  onlir  the  ctua|>e  of  its  Toiieh. 
tlih  li  fUifiirieDI  to  «how  how  the  umei  o 

bj  their  hlitorfap.    TIk  Fmch,  imong  thi  . 

ciiilLreid  man,  hid  one,  whichi  bu  it  wn  hern 
pidlnteil  by  ■  hntild  f^nlnn,  fnighl  ha<T  be      '' 

f^lim',  111  Ibe  tibinif  tfeniui  bT  evenr  r^.  V£\t\i 
vhil  evntement  ami  delluhl  may  the  >nuii|E  tvn- 
tvmpltfi4.  «bp  6r<t  4udk«  ai  Ony*!  inn,  be 
mniiuU^  nf  /VrhJinii-tniiLdinici ' 


boiirhApd  al  ftetbiul'givcfi,  jnd  letiincil  the  mi 

b^,  of   ^Mvinv-pUce-     Thii   may  jLirtle   soi 
IhcokXElcal  antiquary  at  a  nrmole  penoil,  who  rri 


luccd  [he  rortlluilc  II 


iIcBed  balh  bit  knoirlct^   and  mpprobalwa  of 

itpm :  bit  more  pnrate  ooet  he  lud  ordered  lut 
D  be  opened  lor  m'en  yean.    I  ivpect,  Abo,  thai 


I  ID  be  found  tbcuihRi 


AnIhsDy  Wmd  siritublv  Hill  eiM  in  the  AibmC' 
k^an  HuieUDI  j  ihdillj  ihry  have  petiihed,  in  1h^ 
CJHC  thit  wbtvy  manu^crlpl  trill  be  tbc  wie  recoTd 


'  In  hi4  tnreh  vllh  hii  Inrd  (I  forget  wbdhcr 
lit  beisedhiDiloeirebiinapenny.   'Apeony!! 

m  "■— The  piiint  ul  lllii  -tot;  hai  been  maned 
the  telhng :  it  was  driwn  up  from  Ibc  fr-Uowiu 
e,  nthicll  mni*  ha«v  been  the  DTl^nal.  Tha 
Inct  w»  mMk  from  t  kner  br  Anbtvy  to  A^ 
iwd,  dated  Juir  IJ,  (6(19.  '*  A  pocr  nun  avked 
'.  Hillt  hit  hiniihiji't  itewanlt  nnce  to  pre  him 

r  If  f  icire  Ibec  In  pfiun^  ^     '  Ten  pounds  I 

dputdaimiiihiiKcoiint,'Ilein,  leTfyr  "ftfi 
luq.'  vhkh  hia  lonhhip  InqniilnR  aboul  tot  the 
n.  Dot  only  lUowed,  but 


rii  plexed  mtb  i 

This  philosophical  DuinonH  wai 
Jdward  Vere,  Eirt  of  Oifcnd. 


ANCIENT  COOKERY  AND  COOKS. 


LUtbon,"  hu  ^ten  i  higher  chi 

ighst  n.a<t,  in  fftii  Fii-nur  with  I 
>  cmplojr  Ihc  Uyta  of  lh«  day, 
rifakni  And  our  poctnr  were  moutdiiu  th( 


to  be  ncodnl,  iDtlictBd  lurli  n  Injoiy  i... 

bii  piiik,  that  In  hi>  mind  II  requileil  )nn  ol 
■bKDce  froin  Ihe  conrt  of  tiislanJ,  tie  It  — ■'-'  *- 
fornottcn.    Once  making  ■  vv  obcHnn. .    . 
qoccB,  bdoK  the  whole  wiiH,  Ihii  lUlcljr  and 
Inflateil  petr  ivdnvd  ■   miKhince.  whith   hx 
happcDcJ,  It  h  uhI,  on  ■  like  occukin— It  v 
"dgbtHtiTl"    But  thh  Kcldent  H  Kniibly  bi 
bii  nuwtbh  dcHcicy,  ind  n  hnmhtcd  his  arbl 
cntie  die^tr.  llut  he  mild  nM  ntv  hli  e/a 
hta  m/aaiitntM,    He  revived  fium  thai  day 
"  be  a  bannbed  nun,"  »d  tedded  for  Rrcn  ye. 
In  Itiljr,  lirjag  In  mure  grandeur  at  Fkipcnce  Ih — 
the  Orand  Dake  of  Tiucinv.    He  kkdI  in  thow 
yean  forty  tbousand  oDundii-    On  hia  retiiTn  he 
pmeDled  the  que™  with  embmidimd  nlovea  and 
peifumci,  then  fnr  the  tint  time  intrpduced  into 
finjEland,  u  stowe  lua  mtieed.    hrt  of 

SDc^Ane  orEiCMbeth  could  iwl  abn 
congntnlating  the  notite  eohcomh;    pt 


Norfolk,  Ihe  friend  oT  Ibi 


LOCObilK.  Secivl  hiilory  olttii 
apccleri  drtcnveriet :  Ihc  per 
hi  — I  i_i — .  him  „  ^y, 


the  llfo  or  Ihe  Duke 

L-H,  out  «r  hatted  lo  I 

-   — -   •—Dok   ber,   b 

■peal  Inheri 

ilm   ftom   1 

In  IB  with  n 


■lood  <n  ibu  bijiheil  bi-nut,  ta  dn 
abiaad :  awl  a  hmlly  pmi  ma  I 
■nkodid  prD^ttcalHjr  nvhich,  at 
throw  ioH  abait  the  court  nf  Tu 


Diigh  II 


f  Ihe  I 


asa.    The  elder  niny  lelh,  thai  one  man  bad 

"udieil  Ihe  an  or  bltcnind  maih  with  saite  v> 

iccerAilIr,  that  the  ibclli  of  Mime  of  bis  annib 

Id  contain  many  qoiiu.*  The  ume  moiuimui 

ftrd  up  tbov  proi^i^iu  gnosc  liven ;  a  ta^c 

onmifin'in  llilr.    Hwliw  wnv  raitpivd  with 


:n  fiib  In  their  panda  tr 

lilKial  mean^    Our  priae 

ure  to  Iced  on   nnwholMiine  menti-     The 

tci  eqiuli  the  fieib  of  piipliin  lo  thu  of  birdv 


.  and  Agnized  cook^  into  pro> 

.    They  had  wrlien  who  eihau>ied  iheir 


Tie'™™^'^ 


BthMj  I^Lr,  Arcbe«Tatu<.  a  cidinaiy 
,...-.  ,.  -  'i  cmniicMed  an  epic  or  didaclk  poem 
on  BKid  eatinK.  Hia  "  Canlrulojtv  •■  became  Ihe 
cived  or  the  epicure*,  and  its  |ntlm  appean  to 
have  made  what  It  ao  etpraeively  called  "  their 
month*  valer."  Tlw  idea  ban  been  recently 
nicce»ful[v  Imitated  by  a  Frencb  povi.  Arcbc- 
■traliK  thiB  opeiu  hta  aiibjecl  i 


;k23.S 


enial.  Dkrum.il.jgj,  I. 
I  bu  eoUected  in  thi<  chai 
ua  pirtlculira  as  this  Hibjni 


ASCrEXT  COOKERY  ASD  COOKS. 


An  rteni  Hom.n,  m«tiB(!  a  frinid.rtgri 


Thift  ercat  ^rniui  Kenu  to  hire  tnrcUcd  orcr 

lUCB  fi>r  peculijT  edibta,  and  cxquMitc  porahLo ; 
nd  pTomnLgata  bu  prrrvpli  with  Ihe  Knl  of  m 
dUime  Icgiilator,  who  it  dictiirlnji »  code  d»gDed 


"■  MIunlivMltu^.'wi  wllh  1 
icquired  KcompliihmeDli^  The  pbiLMOphr,  < 
he  mfupbyiio,  of  cookciy  appcan  m  the  faUov 
ingpouge; 


ThoughUcM  of  manDcF.  cirekia  wtui  the  plac 
Anpictoiu  to  hii  pniiu  may  preKnti 

We  call  iDdecd  the  imtral  of  an  army 

But  the  true  geoenl  b  the  man  whi4e  mind, 
Kaftering  events^  inticipalOtCDmbina; 

Ullh  our  pnfeaioD  thin ;  Ihe  tiM  who  come 

Prepare  the  ineredienci,  and  around  the  hrc 
Obienuioiu,  Um  1  e>U  i  fc>caHe«  I 
But  ah  1  the  cook  ■  hrichvcr  elonr  crowns  1 
WiJI  iklll-il  »  he  lo  know  Ihe  place,  Ihe  hour, 

Whal  Irih  in  teaion  makei  the  markel  ricli, 
A  choice  delkimt  nfity  1 1  know 
That  all,  we  alwap  hnd  t  hut  alwap  all, 


Not  load  tby  genius  with  a  barren  precepts 
Look  nol  in  hooka  for  what  lome  idle  t^ 

ComportlDj  ill  with  rhetoric  i  'tis  an  art 
Still  changing,  and  of  momentari'  thumph  1 
Know  on  llu-ielf  thy  genius  must  depcod. 
All  books  of  cookery,  all  help*  of  art, 


While  praclicc  mfcctcij 


myiterlet  of  the  latiic  ar 


to  asi^  known  namea  lo  the  great  variety  of  fish, 
particularly  sca-tisn,  the  ancients  used,  many  o' 
which  we  should  re¥olt  at.    One  of  their  daintsc 

Ethinui.    They  ate  the  dogfish,  the  atar-hih.  par- 

"  Regiment  of  &et,"  an  ehcnding  curious  writer 

of  Ihe  reign  of  Bliiabeth,  republdhed  by  Oldya, 

uKd  by  Ibe  ancienti.    Whaterei  Ihe  CtKiKi 
it  feenu  to  have  been  of  great  wEC,  and  ashr 


^Inc  a  dJMlnte  life,  enraged,  remopstntn 
li  pedagogue  i — "  KnaTc  1  Ibou  art  the  ianh 
lou  ever  known  a  philosopher  yield  hhrt* 


A.\Cf£XT  COOKERY  AXI)  COOXS. 


And  Dotin  WBilikimplaifStDfrKlrgni  nnoke, 
I  oerar  eulcr  in  ny  kilcben.  1 1 
But  itt  iput.  and  In  rbe  cnol  diRCI ; 
UbKrvuM  ot  irbal  pan,  icuUiuni  mil. 

Wtui  iloH  Ibou  ibCR  > 

BipUiiT  the  CAUW4»  prnpht^'  the  diih. 

Keep  up  die  file,  and  liitty  plav  the  flimc 
Benealb  IboK  lobster  pjttlo  i  |aIi>:ivF  lien, 

Sleep  well  Ihli  inuU  GloclKui  in  ii>  uuci;, 
Aod  bull  thai  aea-do^  in  a  cullender ; 
llibed  rcqulie«  more  bit  and  maijonm^ 
Rnoil  well  thai  pinre  of  kill  on  either  >i>le 
Eqiia] ;  that  iwi-ethnnd  boil  not  over  much." 


If;  ddi^ed  o'er  the  KnxRi^  j^uod  f 
-' '-'-»lall>TilHh 

Hey  ibill  ni 

ffn  to  manl 

Right  honeit  Cook  '.  thuu  w.di'H  mc  irom  theit 

tepvti  lo  hii  pcnonaip:!. 

To  feed  Ihem  aa  their  age  aiui  ttation  claitn. 
Ml-  kilcfaen  chjnRej.  ai  my  gunli  iio]rire 
nt  vatlout  ipectacle ;  Kir  Inien  niiw, 
PhiloiopheTa,  and  now  for  ^wam  icn. 
If  my  youDit  mytter  be  a  metlk-d  watt, 

Ami  all  the  theUy  lace!  with  mixun  due 
Of  ror.tiila  Klteied,  enjuiiitcly  rich. 

To  a  plLllowpber,  that  aAloul ' 


huenrilile  (he  pilile  of  old  aac, 
Man  diOcDlt  than  the  wA  Bp>  or  youlli 
7^  more,  1  put  much  nnutatd  in  lluli  i 
Wtb  quIckeninK  ajucn  make  Iheic  «np 
And  laih  the  laiy  blood  that  creep,  with 
Anoiber  geniui,  In  tndng  the  an  of  Cor.kcri 


orfiiih 


'Hic  AnthmpophAt^niin  are  ma  imif  ner  i 

Anemblintt  men  IndcaraocLcty. 

Wild  waa  the  *anb,  man  ftuning  upon  man, 

When  one  of  nobler  leue  and  milder  heart 

KtsI  ucTilin.'d  in  animal ;  the  Ikii 

Wilt  sweet  1  and  man  then  ceaKd  to  feed  nn  mj 

And  >anwlllinK  of  tlie  mdcnev  of  IboK  llmei 

'Hie  prle^  cnmmumntatei  i  for  tu  thia  diy, 

ia  pnUtlea  l^palitirtliriif'd, 
TheuurceofieaaDnlngLchaimofCBokcij')  came. 
They  KTved  a  unnch  with  rich  Innedlentiiiored  < 
And  tender  kid,  within  two  ccwennK  plaliii. 
Warm  melted  in  the  imuth.    So  art  impirnvd  I 
At  kf^ith  a  miraclE  not  yet  pertsrm'd, 
'rbey  minced  IhvnmtvMclirolI'd  In  betba)^  soft. 
Nor  meat  not  herhai^  leemM,  but  to  Ibe  eye 


>ld,  applied 


Hen  (ongreitaleil  In  the  pujiubiui  tuM 

two  "  pillan  of  the  Male,"  betides  hi 
H'bonl  of  Rinon.  one  of  tiK  preai  m 


B  the 


the  am  and  9 

Natural  phlliniiplir 

ins  (ot  a  (Bah  i   awl  arcliltectnre 

ir  iimrnrrniible,  makk-4  a  tfrcit 
Ptom  the  mllitaiy 

lea  of  order ;   drill- 


We  lind,  however,  that  a  portion  of  tbl>  diiine 

pouring  and  bragginfll — a  teawnliiA  in  thii  art, 

iinaccompanicil  by  all  the  pomp  and  itaracle  of 
the  kitchen  ;  with  a  acurvv  appearance,  be  will  l)c 
lunxd  away  at  «uht  I  Ibrallhaic  eyii,  but  a  lew 

Anotber  occult  part  of  thii  pruhiund  miilny. 


ASCtEXT  COOKEnr  AXO  COOKS. 


:xi\OTi '  time  wl-JI  Ihy  imbiilHImui  pin 
Vor  aLwan  RLch.  II  »u  hut  joivnliy, 
■liindchiw,  Ibcy  ntiaiy  cuight  tbu  <n  il 
NoTK  0(  iSy  luJh  had  liven,  iiul  Ihe  rue 
to  boTTor,  iilcrccd  tfacir  airr  cmpliiic*. 


iidr,aBdRtvtedoD 

took  who  pcrionnaL  thl*  feat  ddin  bi 
di'iccitlK^acewbeK  thct     ' 


l1.iv..i.Te4  vit 
ha'hiy  ipircd. 


lo  liravHk  aU  ihie  dan^ien  of  tin 


!  aniuU  o(  the 
J  not  ilcMire 
ilmdhadbuii 
■be  iluiDlrkr, 


iKiRi.iii]-DfiiH:knimlciigE.    Tbi 
bl«l  in  il^alb  l>y  i  vnnnd  am 

cvrrMtnl  Ihe  vnlnih,  wi4inl  Itivin  « 
anil  ]iini:in|c  tlie  aoinul  liir  Ibc  bet,  he 
ihiirn  Ihe  ilmat  the  iiuiGi 


want  ofthi*  sklU,  tn^di  oiAa  foot  the  belt  meal 


CDoki  irV^'  a  ve 

■nd  llie  u>te.  of  I 

III  the  winter,  and 
tea,  iud  a  linlent  1 
•1^—1  pilchard, 

whTiIk  rt 


hoibed  ami  ToaHed. 

ridllt         .   . 

ip  to  thi  perfect  imitation  ot  i 
1  in  oil,  Halted,  and  veil  pnwden 
of  a  AotKn  black  ixip)rie«,  t 


1^  At(l^lxu^  eihibiti  _   . _„   ... 

having  procuivd  "The  nctf  Kitchen  of  PhiloiKniu, 

wlitudc."  llDal  thm  devotees' to  the  ciilinar}'  art 
undertook  joumeyi  to  nmnte  porff  of  the  world, 

aulheoticate.  Englanil  had  tbe  honour  lo  furnish 
litem  with  onten,  which  ther  feicbed  from  ahoat 
Kondwich-  Juvenal  *  iecord}k  thai  Koulanui  waa 
»  well  liiillnl  in  the  acieDceoiBiwd  eating,  that  he 
amid  tell  bjr  tlie  lint  hite  whelber  the;  weR  Eng- 
G«h  Of  not,  'Hbe  wcll-kmwn  Apithu  panred  into 
his  ftomach  an  immeme  fuvtune.  He  iiHully 
redded  at  Minturni,  a  tvwn  in  Canapania,  whetc  he 
ate  fhrlmpi  at  a  hi|{h  price  t  Ihcf  were  lo  lar^t 
thai  tbov  nf  smjtna.and  the  ptawiMof  Aleuodiia, 
could  not  be  cnmpared  with  tbcihrimpHof  Miii< 

>  great  itorm,  aud  tbrou^  immineni  danger 
■mvea  al  Ibc  ahnrea  of  Africa.  The  lisbcrmco 
brii^  blm  the  lareeflt  for  itxe  tbeir  UL.^ti  eoulJ 


Minluina.     He  orden  hii  pilot  to  re 
and  ieavn  Africa  with  a  look  of  coole 

higher  wish  via  to  poew  a  crane'i  neck,  thai  he 

who   appean   To  nave  invented   lonie  eapcdieDQ 


(appear 


AXCfEXT  AXD  MODERN  SATCKSALIA. 


H  brother  gucsQi  th 


nmk  hi>  thn»(  •KiA  It,  thil  he  might  fnl  la 
iDifcdlrnnit  in  twiDmtng  the  hottat  diitaa.  Hi 
bribed  the  eoolii  to  serre  up  the  repat  •mcikinj, 

cUmed  I  grambJing  f«;UoW'gacit-  Once  having 
embarked  Ar  Epbeiui,  for  Ihe  putpDie  aS  eitin; 
iA,  hii  (nourile  ftnd,  he  arrived  it  the  mirkel 
hhI  found  (II  (he  ttUh  empty.  There  ni  1 
wedding  In  Ihe  toon,  end  all  the  fiih  h>d  beer 
tKipoken.  He  hxtcu  to  embtKe  the  nev-mitriec 
conple,  lod  tin^ng  an  eplthalunlum,  the  dMu'- 
miDlflc  epicure  enchintud  the  cempanr.  The 
hrldegroom  wu  delighted  by  the  hnrunir  i  '  ' 
preience  of  mch  a  poet,  and  eamesdy  ret|uev 
would  come  on  the  morrow.  "IwlUcofne,young 
friend,  if  there  l>  no  Ash  it  Ihe  market  1"— It  wu 
thU  Philounui,  wlio,  11  the  table  of  Dioniiint,  the 
tyrant  of  Sicily,  haring  near  him  a  amall  barbel, 

Utile  one,  and'hclFit  to  his  ear.    Diom-dui  In- 

(a  poem  in  honaui  of  the  mntrcw  of  Ihe  tyrant), 

whether  he  could  give  me  lonie  InloTTnalion  about 
Nereui ;  but  he  19  allent,  and  1  :m^ne  Ibey  hare 
taken  him  up  too  young;  I  have  rui  doubt  that 
old  one,  oppotile  to  yon,  would  perfectly  ntiifv 


ND  MODERN  SATURNALIA. 

!  dliCDVerej  that  our  nature  di 
on,  and  perhapt  lu  nothing  moi 


ourwivca,  in  mockoy  of  thi 
If  a  paMinn  'for  maaqoerade  m  iiujiun  iueujc. 
ChiUliTn  ducover  this  pn>pen9it}'  1  and  Ihe  popu- 
lace, who  are  tha  children  of  loclety,  throi^  all 
a^rei  have  been  huoioUKd  by  their  governors  with 
KMlvab  and  tecreatloru,  which  are  made  np  of 
thlinulicioutranaformationofperaoaandtbingi; 
and  the  humble  orden  of  nclely  have  been  privi- 
leged by  the  higher,  to  pkaie  tnemselvei  tiy  bur- 


V.  anilacnonffanotherpeople.  Thecou- 


-tbla  overlnTuing  of  the  prlndpicf  of  tociL-lr, 
hlH  public  ridicule  of  Iti  lawv  iti  cuBtonu, 
>  feelingi.  We  are  told,  Ihae  Cntivab,  dedi- 
10  Situm,  were  dolgned  to  ivpresent  the 
natural  eonality  which  prevailed  InhHgnldenigei 
and  for  thb  pnrpov  the  ilavca  Mvere  allowed  In 
change  placet  with  Ihe  magten.  Thit  wai,  how- 
'•"•E'^'V  "''  yf^f  ■  ''be  notion  of  the  ci|nalily 
nf  men  1  for,  while  Ibe  alai-e  wai  convened  Into 
iMcr,  Ibe  pfelended  e<)uallly  was  m  much 


alely  neailv  thrown  Europe  into  a  Hite  of  that 
rone  than  ilaverj-,  where  Javet  are  inaiteri. 

oaweekldebaucheryandli^ly^ina  adlarvof 
hat  weckl  wordi  and  deciU  would  hare  furnished 

f  quire  from  Ihe  hwa  of  the  Satnmalia  nf  Ludau. 

It  wai  iDwipds  the  cloieof  Deeembtrihatallibe 

™i  bul'ihoun^f  m°iilTim'enl ;  alF'bmlnn  wu 
Hsmlved,  and  none  at  work  but  cook)  and  con- 

andllappeanthit"8ne°tentfpin  nf  a  man'.X- 


ecitcd  which  rUd  not 


L  provoke  minh,  ailapled 


dined  In  Ihdr  clothei,  ptifloK  *■! 


hapoenedlhalthea 
douutleia  wiili  ar 


ASCIEST  ASD  UODERS  SATCRSALIA. 


tiK  piiaU  iKifanncd 
hmheiikdi  vtdch  PitHciu  oiplaini 

of  thit  eKtraoTclimry  ihtlitolian^  a 
ihaw  ttui  time  dbcorcn,  or,  h  m  tbi 
of  Lhv  barchcadrd  pricsb,  TincDtcn,  i 


\  the  cnunc 
|ip1Lcil  wilb  drink  u 


inner  b  thcv  cou^  coniiivc 
Lfy  Bf  ill  Ibil  had  hern  aunu 


pofmlir  rtcrealiom  o(  Pi( 

ipHCMndnccuned  viUiiliem,  hiii ^  , - 

IV  cbangc  tbdr  nunc  lod  tbcir  p]>«  on  (be  ■  iob 


globe,  th 


'^IbeuT 
drinking,  diocing. 

lib  tbv  tiurthen 

'the  dale  of  tbeii ;  On  other  occiinaiu.  Ibey  put  burnt  oM  iboct  to 

neinfc  (dvcenely ;  tcatterinf 


Jipted  to  tbeii 


Et  to  be  forgotten, 
gcncraicd  ibe  xna* 
ng  Ibe  nalionof 
.  _ .  m  Europe ;  and,  wbil  Kemi  more  entiaordi' 
nuv  thui  the  lutknavn  origin  oi  the  parent  ib- 
wtdilyilKlC.  the  Saturnalia  cnirt  into  the  WTvics 
ubd  offices  of  die  Cbrbtun  church.  Stranffe  it  li 
i-e  at  the  alur  Ibe  liiii  of  nliciDn  bui- 
,  and  all  lit  officei  performed  vith  the 

_ _.  budoonerv.    It  ii  onlv  bv  tracing  Ihem  lo 

the  BoDun  Saturnalia,  Ibal  we  can  al  all  .nccount 

of  Ub«tinivn  and  pfo^neneu  so  lun^  cun- 

hI  under  Cliridlanltv. 

cb  were  the  Icaats  ol  the  a»,  the  fcait  of  fooh 

idmea./fMibi/iiu— tfee<eMO(lbe  1-uU— 
of  the  innocenu— and  that  of  the  mdiittii,  which 
perikam,  in  m  original  term,  meant  only  aub-dea- 
coaa,i>ut  Ibdrccmducr .  l..  -t-  .  _ 


drunken  deacoin. 


'xprrHoi  Vf  the  c 
loftbhnilui 


1,  and, » ■  ihall  itun 
K>.    The  \i 


the  audieno 
irie*i]ued  ttie  divine  servln 


a  #•)»  */"/««. 


Ibey  repn»enUd,  il  be- 

aaltr  if /taU,  who  wag  ibavcd  in  public,  during 
which  be  entertained  the  populace  with  all  the 
balderdaah  hh  geniui  could  invent.    U'c  had  in 

dnring  the  live  aa>i  of  the  Clival  of  Ibe  ViTEin 
Waiy.  The  people  rose  early  lo  mas,  duniw 
which  the}'  practiced  ealing  and  drinking  with 
Ibe  mnit  leakHB  veloi'ily,  and,  a>  In  France,  dnw 
from  ihe  comcn  of  the  altar  the  rich  poddiiua 
placed  IbeK. 
Ho  late  at  in  I&45,  a  pupil  of  Gaaendi.  wriring 


.    pactpcd.    Neither  Ibe  clercv,  nor  Ihe  guardlam, 

I    Indeed,  BO  to  Ibe  chnlt  on  iGii  dav,  hul  all  iigiren 

up  to  Ihe  lay-hrclfan.'o,  the  cablnge-cutleii,  Ae 

1   crrand-bntii,  ibecooka  an(iKullion&,  Ibe  gardnteti; 

.,.„.■   in  a  word,  ill  the  meiuah  till  their  placeg  in  the 

It  and  I  churrh,  and  inv4  that  thcv  purfOnn  the  Mlicei 

ack'ntythenhnaginrdilwaalbetecureil    proper  br  Ihe  day.   They  dreig  IhenHeli-et  with 

wj lo tliov pagan  leiTliin.  '    | weu  them  lulde  out ;  they  hold  in Iheir&indi 


Ivabbavi 


•  A  larite  volume  mi)!hl  he  rompo«d  on  th.  . 
giote«]ui:,)>rnEjne,andliccntiau'>feut>.  Durante    appearance;  p:<iticuLulr  while  dangling  tbeeen- 
— '~>  wveral  under  diiietenl  temn  in  hii  Gkb-    "n,  Ibey  keep  ihali'mg  them  In  deriuon,  aiul 


KHher  ling  hymna,  nor  pulr 


atiom  Hiiloriqucis  vol.  I.  p.  109,  hai  noticed  a>  >  herd 
«ral  vrilera  ou  the  fuh^t,  and  preiervoone  noruenie-i 
the  taunting  of  a  man.  called  Adam,  from  A<b.  barou:— 
EdDOday  to  Holy-Thursday,  and  treating  him  I     n  ^^^  , 

lony.     See  AncUlon'i  Melange  Crillqne.  &c.  [  ' 

1. 14,  wheiv  Ihe  panage  ((Dm  Hafhad  de  Vollerra  ]  These  1 
b  fotind  at  Ico^b.    In  my  learned  friend  Mr.  Tur-    humour  r 

~    Kcond  volume  of  hia  Hiilnrv  of  Englind,    vented,  an 


this  equipage  th^ 
are  Angularly  hat- 


I 


AXCIEXT  AND  MODERX  SATURNALIA. 


273 


the  **  Malmantile  racquistato  "  of  Lippi ;  but 

hat  they  should  have  been  endured  amidst  the 

Hieiim  officer  of  religion,  and  have  been  per* 

fanned  in  cathedrals,  while  it  excites  our  astoni^- 

ment.  can  only  be  accounted  for  by  perceiving 

Ikit  they  were,  in  truth,  the  Saturnalia  of  the 

*n-«»«*«     Mr.  Turner  obKnres,  without  perhaps 

lafing  a  precise  notion  that  they  were  copied 

fram  the  Saturnalia,  that  "It  could  be  only  by 

maEng  the  pasan  revelricf,  that  the  Christian 

cutmuuics  could  gain  the  ascendancy."    Our  his- 

toim  further  obwrves,  that  theK  "  licentious  fes- 

Mtks  were  called  the  December  liberties^  and  seem 

to  hare  begun  at  one  of  the  most  solemn  seasons 

of  the  Christian  year,  and  to  have  lasted  through 

Ike  chief  part  of  January."    This  very  term,  as 

vd  » the  time,  agrees  with  that  of  tne  ancient 

Itfunulia: — 

**  Age,  liber t ate  Decembri, 
Qoando  ita  majores  voluerunt,  utcre  :  narra." 

Hor.  Lib.  II.  Sat.  7. 

The  Roman  Saturnalia,  thus  transplanted  into 
Christian  churche!>,  had  for  its  singular  principle, 
(hat  of  inferiors,  whimsically  and  in  mockcr>', 
ptaoDifying  their  superiors  with  a  licensed  licen- 
tiomen.  This  forms  a  distinct  characteristic 
ftom  those  other  popular  customs  and  pastimes 
vhich  the  learned  have  also  traced  to  the  Roman. 
nA  even  more  ancient  nations.  Our  present 
iaqoiiy  is,  to  illustrate  that  proneneis  in  man,  of 
^^ting  to  re\-erK  the  order  of  aociet>',  and 
^iihailiiig  its  decencies. 

Here  we  had  our  boy-bishop,  a  legitimate  de- 
Kodau  of  this  family  of  foolery.  On  St.  Nicho- 
^  day,  a  saint  who  was  the  patron  of  children, 
^boy4)isbop  with  his  mitra  pari'a  and  a  long 
<n»er,  attended  by  his  schoolmates  as  his  dimi- 
RotiTt  prebendarici,  asKiimed  the  title  and  state  of 
'W»op.  The  child-bishop  preached  a  sermon, 
nd  aftowards,  accompanied  by  his  attendants, 
*ait  about  singing,  and  collecting  his  pence  :  to 
"cl>  theatrical  proces&ions  in  collcraate  bodies, 
^tftoo  attributes  the  custom,  still  existing  at 
Kton,  of  going  ad  montem.  But  this  was  a  tame 
Oiainmery  compared  with  the  groMness  eliewhere 
•l^wpcd  in  burlesquing  religious  ceremonies.  The 
^Bffah,  more  particularly  after  the  Reformation, 
*«n  not  to  have  polluted  the  rhurchri  with  such 
•btticj.  The  relish  for  the  Saturnalia  was  not, 
'•'""trer,  le«  lively  here  than  on  the  Continent ; 
**«  it  took  a  more  innocent  direction,  and  was 
*Howed  to  turn  itwrlf  into  civil  life :  and  since  the 
P«>ple  would  be  gratihed  by  mock  dignities,  and 
^med  the  privilege  of  ridiculing  their  masters,  it 
*3i  allowed  them  by  our  kings  and  nobles ;  and 
*  troop  of  grotesque  characters,  frolicv)me  great 
P>Q),  delighting  in  merry  mischief,  are  recorded 
in  our  domestic  annals. 

The  moit  learned  Selden,  with  parsimonious 
piinse  and  copious  sense,  has  thus  compreiwd  the 
^Ottlt  of  an  historical  dissertation  :  he  derives  our 
•ocient  Christmas  sports  at  once  from  the  true, 
though  remote,  source.  "  Christmas  succeeds  the 
Saturnalia  ;  the  same  time,  the  same  number  of 
boly-days ;  then  the  master  waited  upon  the  ser- 
^t  like  the  lord  ^  misrule."*    Such  is  the  t'tle 

«  Selden's  Table*talk. 


of  a  facetious  notcntate,  who,  in  this  notice  of 
Selden 's,  is  not  further  indicated,  for  this  personage 
was  familiar  in  his  dav,  but  of  whom  the  accounts 
are  so  scattered,  that  ni^  offices  and  his  glor>'  are 
now  equally  obscure.  The  race  of  this  nobility  of 
droller>',  and  this  legitimate  king  of  all  hoaxing 
and  quizzing,  like  mightier  dynasties,  has  ceased 
to  exist. 

In  England  our  festivities  at  Christmas  appear  to 
have  been  more  entertaining  than  in  other  countries. 
We  were  once  famed  for  merr>'  Christmases  and 
their  pies :  witness  the  Italian  proverb,  "//a  piu  di 
fare  che  iforni  di  SataU  in  Inghilierra:"  "  He  has 
more  business  than  English  ovens  at  Christmas." 
Wherever  the  king  resided,  there  was  created  for 
that  merry  season  a  Christmas  Prince,  usually 
called  '*  the  Lord  rf  Misrule ;"  and  whom  the 
Scotch  once  knew  under  the  significant  title  of 
"  the  Abbot  iff  Unreason."  His  office,  according  to 
Stowe,  was  "  to  make  the  rarest  pastimes  to  de> 
light  the  beholder."  Every  nobleman,  and  every 
great  family,  surrendered  tncir  houses,  during  this 
season,  to  the  Christmas  prince,  who  found  rivals 
or  usurpers  in  almost  everj-  p.irioh  ;  an<l  more  par- 
ticularly, as  we  shall  see,  among  the  grave  students 
in  our  inns  of  court. 

The  Italian  Polydore  Veiijil,  who,  residing  here, 
had  clearer  notions  of  this  facetious  personage, 
considered  the  Christmas  Prince  as  peculi.ir  to  our 
country.  Without  venturing  to  ascend  in  his 
genealo^,  we  must  admit  his  relationship  to  tliat 
ancient  family  of  foolery  we  have  noticed,  whetner  ' 
he  be  legitimate  or  not.  If  this  whimsical  per- 
sonage, at  his  creation,  was  designed  to  regulate 
"misrule,"  his  lordship,  invested  with  plenary 
power,  came  himself,  at  length,  to  delight  too 
much  in  his  "  merr)'  disports."    stubbes,  a  morose 

Kuritan  in  the  reign  of  Elizabeth,  denominates 
im  "  a  grand  captaine  of  mis<  hicfc,"  und  has  pre- 
sen'ed  a  minute  description  of  all  his  wild  doings 
in  the  country' ;  but  as  Strutt  has  anticipated  me 
in  this  amating  extract,  I  must  refer  to  his  "  Sports 
and  Pastimes  of  the  People  of  England,"  p.  354.  I 
prepare  another  scene  of  unparalleled  Saturnalia, 
among  the  grave  judges  and  Serjeants  of  the  law, 
where  the  Lord  of  Misrule  is  viewed  amidst  his 
frolicsome  courtiers,  with  the  humour  of  hunting 
the  fox  and  the  cat  with  ten  couple  of  hounds 
round  their  great  hall,  among  the  other  merry  dis- 

KDrts  of  those  joyous  dap  when  sages  could  play 
kc  l>ov-s. 

For  tnose  who  can  throw  themselves  back  amidst 
the  grotesque  humours  and  clumsy  pastimes  of 
our  ancestors,  who,  without  what  wc  tliink  to  be 
taste,  had  whim  and  merriment — there  has  been 
fortunately  preserved  a  curious  historj-  of  the  man- 
ner in  which  "  A  grand  Christmis  "  was  kept  at 
our  Inns  of  Court,  bv  the  grave  and  learned 
Dugdale,  in  his  "  Origines  Juridicialcs :"  it  is  a 
complete  festival  of  foulcrj-,  acted  by  the  students 
and  Uw-ofTicers.  They  hehl  for  that  season  every- 
thing in  mockery  :  they  had  a  mock  parliament,  a 
Prince  of  iy6/>/>i<r,  or  Wisdom,  an  honourable  order  of 
Pegasus,  a  high  constable,  marshal,  a  master  of  the 
game,  a  ranger  of  the  forest,  lieutenant  of  the 
Tower,  which  was  a  temporary  prison  for  Christmas 
delinquents,  all  the  paraphernalia  of  a  court,  bur- 
lesqued by  these  youthful  sages  before  the  boyish 
judges. 


•-•' 


•t.'   j;  T- 


AXCIEST  ASD  ifODERX  SATURKALIA. 


ThiT  hid  lino  Ibtir  mo 
IUlc,"  complain?^  (bat  Ihc  conManC'in 


fliucp^  \m  broucr  ki 
"The  Lord  «f  H 
Lutcily  did  not  cond 

abk'  1  but  the  "  ipatb  n(  Ihc  Temple."  u  >  r 
— *V™^  '^b  tbcm.  fall]  gndnill)-,  ii    ''    - 


».«.i..  -^JS^S 


;   prjiclwl  111  the  mlK-hicCbe  innqlcdi  ai 
J    were  «romp.iurd  bidkinp,»ndmurh([. 


ihibiling  III  their 

imouT :  il  i>  ntiucd  "  (iou  Gnvorum ;  or  tbe 
iUuiir  of  Ihc  high  and  mlehty  Prince  Heuy, 
ince  of  PuTpooJe,  Aicb-duke  of  STapulia  and 
-cnutdia  (Suplc'i  and  Bernards  lam;.  Duke  of 
HighudNelbcl-llo1hcm.MiniuniDf».OilaHd 
■'-":nh»m.  Count  palatine  of  Mo<.n»h>l[>*  ""l 
KcDtith  Town,  hr^  Kniyfat  and  Soteteii^n  of 


of  Mitfule  of  the  inni  of  court 

Lotd  or  HiwiUe  thn^ll^d  an' 
lOKOOuntTwelfth-nighi  ".  ' 
the  aeichboiitbDiHl  ~'  " 
fill  thiSia 


ANCIENT  ASD  MODERN  SATDRNAUA. 


civic  hind :  >nJ  how  ihe  Christnito  prince  w 
iminuRil  in  the  Cmintn' :  uul  how  Ilic  learned 
Templin  inuileil  on  Ibeir  priiikgc ,  and  Ihe  iin- 

Ihtirriehlof  Biingthcirerovoi-piece':  anllinill)' 

kn  the  interposition  of  the  kinn  anJ  th=  jittonKT- 
ffcnci^l — altogether  rhe  tale  Had  been  well  (old 
Id  ionic  cofnh:  epic  i  but  Hic  wilt  of  Ihal  day  let  it 
p»  out  of  Ibdr  hatidv 


Manin     Stutevillei 


"Jul.  11,  lt2J-t. 

[lie,  who  on  TWclRh-evei 

nj  uuur  uKj<  cunc  Ibey  winded  the  Temple 
and  if  at  the  second  uut  or  lummoni  they 
Ihenthe  LordofKia- 
lerl-    Hiieunner 
\  ffun  or  petard  it- 
's hamtqct,    Thifl' 


adf  was  a  huge  orereiuwn  iDiith*ah 
beinii  complained  of  tn  my  Lord  Hi 
wuuCi  be  wilb  them  iboul  elenn  o'cl 


in  Ram-alley 

ime  ibey  ■-  -- 

Tcond  Mu 

edoor,  Ih 

»n!*i^ril 


uwn  inith-sl 

aardibnatd  attend 


■rfie  thuberdi.  Uh  iuh< 
:ameoatafldthoaie. 
long  wilb  him.    Hi.  I 


tended)  advanced  aa  high  n  Kaiii-ajic>  m  uuruu 
PLoipa^ :  when  Ibrth  came  the  Lgrd  of  Miirule, 
alti:IMed  by  hil  Allanb,  out  of  the  Templc-nlc, 
with  their  hwoi^  all  anned  in  eutrpt,     A  hal- 

K'lyoT.  He  answered.  No  T  let  the  Lord  Kajvr 
come  to  me !    At  kn^h  they  agreed  To  meet  half- 

inlbii:  for  Ant.Mr.Palmerbeingquitrelleiri^lh, 
living  crov  awwerii  the  hallierds  began  to  Hv 


rcapon.  My  l,Drd  IMaydr  tailing  Mr.  hlmcr  by 
he  ihnulder*  led  him  to  the  Compter,  and  thruM 
lim  in  at  tlbc  priiion4[ate  with  a  Xind  of  indigna- 
mn  I  and  to,  notwitmurHting  hit  bnrti,  be  wat 

lishn.  f  hi  Tuesday  the  king't  attorney  became  a 
i.itor  10  my  Lon!  far —  '—  ■— ■-  "'— ■ '■■-'■ 


e 


on  they  ahould  re- 

Saralicina  upon 
Mf.Attonw)-- 


-,, , lugh  Ibe  graie  citiien 

id  rigbliv  protect  IbemieiTei,  ret,  by  thi 
r-K<neTal  tailing  the  Lord  of  Uiirule  in  hi 

n  Ibe  partiea.  that  Ihey 


itcrlcicnce  of  the  Lord  Hayoi 

Lords  of  Hiwie  1 
ty  in  the  empire  of 
»  prirbcc»  who  fe 

out  of  the  galea  of  Ihii  Hoiiac,  bv  any  M  a  otben, 
lo  bnat  open  any  houae,  or  take  anything  in  the 

Tbeae  "  Lorda  of  Mijrule,"  and  iheir  mock  court 
and  royalty,  appear  to  have  been  only  eitinguUhed 
with  the  Engliih  sorerrigniy  itaelf,  at  the  rime  of 


placvohinK 

accepted  bit  chair  of  ital 
the  highest  UUe  in  the  ha 

emperor,  having  a  ^liee  ol 
iDundly  peppned  now, 
metamorphoaed  into  the 
commanding  aoul,  that  e 

elephant,  nay.  upon  the  c> 


la  uwiuestionalily  one  of  tlicK 
II  '■  waa  that  of  the  Temple,  e 

the  levelling  equality  of  our  Iheair 


Jm  high  and  mi^ity 
ch  was  duly  eonferrvd 


lefoic.  waa 
.   imtantly 


BELIQUIX  QETHINrANX. 


n  the  ahaiiowy  repJiiy 


1,  Kfiously  to  lutort,    TIl«  "  ] 


iddmaind  burlnitie  cLkIiod.  wu  an  imj„ 
■■ich  utiricil  eihibiEiDM  or  Ihcir  lupcnon,  k>  prcwDti  ber  kneeling  tioldmg  a  book  in  her  Tidit 
delifthtliil  tolbe  pnpj?.  France,  «l  ihc  cIok  of  I  lund.  Tliii  ucompiuhcd  lidy  wj*  conudcmTja 
Louii  XIV .t  reign,  lirsl  Hw  her  imigiiury  "  9itp- !  i  prodi^  in  ber  day,  uid  ippeui  to  hive  created 

■iniiRiDf  1heday,tnd  the  b)ockhe«li  of  all  tjmei.  |  <liedeariy,havingscarceiy  jtltaineii  tovonuabood, 
Thit "  fcgiineDt  oftheilcuLlcun"onpiuIettid  an  i  iJthongh  a  wife  ^  tor  *'|LI  (hit  eDodncB  bimL  aJJ 
officer  and  a  n-it,  who,  lUMring  from  vioient'  thii  exceiience  kaa  bounded  within  the  ctHnpua 
headicbei,  vs  recommended  Ibe  uae  of  a  ikull-   of  twenty  yean." 

cap  of  lead :  and  hb  companion,  a  great  wiu,  I  But  It  in  her  book  camtnemaTated  ilk  marble. 
formed  themielre*  into  a  regiment,  to  be  com- 1  and  not  her  character  which  may  hare  merited 

e^tttaragancici  in  word}  or  an  deeds.  They  ejected  |  my  cunuity  and  my  iiupidon,    A1^  ber  dcatb 

ftruck  medals,  and  i>»ued  "  bretets,"  and  "  let(re$  i  writing  which  could  not  Fail  to  attract,  and, 
patentee,*'  and  granted  pensions  to  eertain  indi^i- 1  perhaps,  asonLih  their  iraden,  with  the  maturity 
dnab,  staling  (heir  claims  to  be  enrolled  in  ihe  |  of  thouglit  and  the  van  capacity  which  bad  com- 
lef^ment  for  some  egregious  eilravagance.  The  |  posed  them.  Theae  reliques  of  genius  were  col- 
wits  veniried  these  army  commimons;  and  the;  lected  toother,  methodized  under  heads,  and 
idlcn,  like  pioneers,  were  busied  in  elearing  their  appeared  with  the  tirle  of  "  Reliqniv  CelhinianK  j 
way,  by  picking  up  the  omlAioiu  and  commisMciDS  I  or  some    mnaini  of   Grace  Ladv    Gethin.  lately 

faroured  with  its  **  brevets"  intrigued  against  (he.  pleasant  apothegms,  and  witty  senleuca;  written 
legiDlcnl  1  but  at  length  they  tbund  it  easier  to  bv  her  for  the  rmtt  part  by  way  of  Essay,  and  at 
WOT  their  "  calotte,"  Ind  «y  nothing,  lliis  ipare  houn ;  publiitaed  by  ber  neamt  relations  to 
~i«^  k™.- In —iijejT  jnd  pliyfulnest,  seasoned  I  ptoerre  her  memnry.  Second  ed'*' —  — ~" 
,    llptDdueed  a  great  number       oi  this  book,  considering  that 


of  ingerUcHU  ii 


prieilegesaf  thi. 

and  calumny  too  often  took  the  plact 

cw-eiedi- _  . , 

caJled"TlKRepubl>cofBaboanetT."  Tbt 


l"ldo(i'^''A  caM^  a 


t'ered  in  one  of  the  Inrdvhips  of  E^and.    It  was '  grave  in  a  manuscript  note  ohaer^'cd,  (hat  "  tbb 

lied  "The  Republic  of  Baboonery/'  The  society !  book  was  very  scarce."    It  bean  now  a  high  price. 

waa  a  burlesque  model  ol  their  own  goremment : '  Ahintii  given  in  the  preface  that  the  work  was 

a  king,  chancellor,  couiuel1oTs.archbisnofH,jud|{ea.  I  clUefly  printed  for  the  tise  of  her  friends  i  yet,  hy 

be  was  immediately  appointed  nnror  of  the  rv-j  large  were  so.    There  isapoempreliKd  with  the 

of  his  conversation  usually  led  to'  some  luitahle   protHHinec  Is  by   Congteve  -,   he  wrote   indeed 

talking  too  much  of  dogs.woulil  be  ma^ea  master!  for.  considered  as  the  production  of  a  young  lady, 
of  (he  ouck'hounds;  or  vaunting  his  courage, per- ,  it  is  aminculous.  rather  than  a  human.  productioD. 
haps  a  lield-marshal  i  and  if  bigoted  on  dilutable  i  The  last  lines  in  this  poem  nc  might  expect  from 

was  considered  to  be  noihing  less  than  an  inqul- ,  preserve  hii  panegi-ric  amidst  that  caustic  wit. 


Unce.  to  hi  ant  of  riihiaii, ' 
Wilh  nmething  Uimt  nuy  t. 


RELIQUIM  QETHtSIANM. 

lurUoD  of  A  young  lady. 


:  [ilKd  miincHU  \%  lo  uke  thdr  thin. 
"  w.  C." 


I  not  coiiu  •hrrtt  of  thiL  nnl 
nhicb  the  worlil  hid  of  hei 


thil  H  Ihc  iteniiiiK  pnidutt  of  hct  pen,  [hey  n 
be  told  lh>(  IhU  U'Bii«1««yw**«i»w<fm.  ... 
Adfff,  wcR  berjfr'f  mvfjHHiu  mil  overiknTtngi 
or  her  iDiuriuit  bncy,  nolcrl  with  ibrr  fntcM  dl 
If^i  Aoiiri,  Of  u  rtt  vuu  JrrijJnr.  u  bet  tUfiifior 

lotilabicnceofciili^jud^menl  thjit  coiilit  ukiI 

Ihey  cime  lota  Ihc  mind  af  Liiiy  Gilhin,  u  the 
"tIk™*  is.  Ihil  L.dy Gethin  nuy h.«  hid 
Thcv  indeed  might  well   hue  dcii^tnl  Iheir 


waiUlialj  to  Coiwere  and  to  (he  editor :  uid 
■btl  moie  nnlcujHljr  id  iuhK<|uenI  tompUEn,  u 
■lUud  in  hli  *Iniiohi,»odUtcly  the  Her.  JUrk 


wcTE  tnnKTibing  litcnlly   froio    Lon 
Biuya  1    Unqneilioiuhly  Lidy  OelhlD  I 


icacr  or  her  kk  ;  tfie  noted  muci 

ould  hace  liniglDed  thai  eveiythiof 
he  hind  of  lhi>  j-oung  Udy  wi»  hei 


cr  the  oti^n  of  Ihii  m 


illicliciUy  concluilcil  hii  lot  pi 


which  her  Ijidytbkp  tpeiiii  in  her  own  Etenon  pro- 
bibly  ve  of  Dri^nal  gnnrth  \  of  thil  kind  m»ny 
evince  great  iTeuity  of  thought,  dnwn  from 


if  the  d 


n  {(or  « 


wntebcd  imuini  of  the  Court  ofChulei  1 
Wycherley.  Dryden,  tvA  Congteve  Kem 

cent  plDtt  end  lin^uage.  than  \%  Imigincd 


h*^  "  ii  true  the  conitant  man  b  mdy  lo  ucti- 
fice,  every  moment,  hii  whole  family  to  hii  lon  i 

plain.  And  Ibo'  both  he  who  lendi  hii  hurt  to 
whmoerer  pteaaei  It.indhethMgiveilleniirelyIn 
one.  do  both  of  them  raiufre  the  eiacten  devoir 

who  ii  alwiyi  pRploDng  her  *ith  hii  inioniunt 

the  belt  humoared )  but  let  Ihem  be  what  ihev 
will,  women  ought  not  to  be  nnlaithful  For  vlrtue'i 
■afceandtheit  own.oortoottendbyeiamplc.   It 


'  middle  age,  andoli 
rhe  lait  degrading 


Gcthln,  with  an  Inlellecl « lupetior  to  th 


EOltfSSOX  CSLSOE. 


educuioD,  Klf-ioi 


in  bout.    The  bb- 


.Kir-inuu 

it  duplan  all  the  (oTcihLc  I 
OTi|piurniin<l>  our  liunt 
tory  Df  rbe  v-orh  Is  theiv 

tICl(«lintlKilUlbat^tlinEi>iMiEn:iuKiuiii«i<.<^, 

fur  Ibc^ilAopby  VHDOt  dbcoi'civdinThviEoryi 
tfia  bii  dcilb  il  wa  raniiileRil  lo  tuve  h«n  pll' 
lued  ftom  Ihc  papcfiof  Akxamkr  Selkirk,  «>□- 
llJnl  lo  the  autbcn,  ind  Ihe  bunour. »  well  ■>  Ibc 
[eniiit,  n'  Oc  Foe  vcte  alllce  queitloDed. 

Tike  cDIIre  hi(tin]r  of  ihii  wntk  ol  eeiUin  ini>' 
now  be  RMKil,  rtom  Ibc  tint  blnli  lo  flic  maun: 
uite,  to  wblch  only  Ibc  genint  <il  Ue  Foe  could 


li-hcd  Ibr 


in  of  iidkirk  n«  veil  knni 
tiK  desert  Mind  of  Jtian  Pern 
id  formerty  been  k-A,  by  U 


Inxly  caRixnuniealcd  to  them 

IticirUeilreineJy  hUetothw. 
entire  hj-  cpbiB  Bomev ;  It 


IhiB  Ibe  eml>T)o  of  RoMnKia  Cnisic.— 'Ilw 
apvcwice  or  Helkiik,  *■  •  uia  vlntbed  in  k 
ifcim,  wIh)  looked  oiuK  wild  tlufl  the  liru  OH 
hnUfaefaMlhuUi.UMoi 


Kdkiik, 
■kedmui 
if  Ihcin."    nlie  Iwo  hnUfae 

IrcH his Tiiliuli,  Aie  other  t ,   .... 

'     nee  to  Kt  lire,  by  mbUn^  two  picen  of  pi- 
lo  wtiod  together  i  hl4  di^itB  tor  the  wint 

Jioi^    ™^ 


d  vilb  himj  be  • 


sepanted  from  company  fn 


Ibougbl.  Tbeman  ire4]uei 
lo  the  mull],  uhich  could  i 


fivqiiently  coiHTrvd  wiih  him,  ifier  ji  *fw 
montlu'  abHrnce,  he  met  me  in  the  street,  and 
ihiiugb  be  Kxike  In  mi.'.  I  eould  not  iHdlAl  that 
IhJV-nhim.  FamiKx  cumcne  In  this  unni 
hud  taken  Ml  the  kmUineK  of  hii  imxt,  aid 
■llcRfl  the  lit  Df  bit  Km."  Ue  he  cooM 
il  of  being  stnu'k  by  these  hiterestinc  par- 
rs (.f  the  (hincter  nf  Selkirk ;  but  piobahly 
-.  . —  uwther  nhncTvitlon  of  Steele  which  threw 


ig  ciua^cd   in  polilkal   i 

uder  lmpTl>onmL-hl,  and  at 


euodemned  to  uider  l^Tltonni 

4rack  by  a  tit  of  apopkicy,  this  unhappy  an 

pnspenHHTn; — -'—'--  —  ■-■- — —- — - 


_ .  .     .    ioccihi) 

bedstead  of  his  own  contritingi  md  hh  bed  of 

goal-skJUB;  when  his  gunpowder  faited,  hi*  teach-  naiu;  ■  noniiuio  luoian.  oencnoeo  ov  uompieT, 
iDg  hiimell  by  continual  escFcHe  to  run  as  swiftljr  was  the  protot^  pe.  KobiawD  Cruaoe  w-as  not 
as  the  gojls:  bii  EJIinfl  Ihim  ■  precipice  in  ! rni-en  to  llic  wiirid  tiU  itiq;  scien  nin  alter  the 
..^.j.. —  1.-..I  -< ilunned  md  bm' — '  •"'   --■-■' — ' "■..••.'-•...  ... „_...^i. . 


iLsed.tlll.pDblii 
adunilerituvei 


laUon  of  Selkirk '1, 


1   hut  t>e  Foe  himself. 

_( I  Robinson  rn>~«   'i—  ■ 

n  this   hail  been  f 


. „a  social  ,  jct  Selkirkhu  the  merit  b(  having  deiaileil  his 

wu.iiH  m  H<^  n.i.vin  i-'iCr*.  AaU  Ibc  iubiiatioa  j  own  bi^lorv,  in  a  manner  w  interestini^  as  to  have 
wNch  Selkiifc  hjd  rai«d,  to  re.tch  which,  thejr  |attncted  the  wHiccofSieele,  and  to  bare  Inspired 
Aillowed  hin  "  with  dlHicullr,  climbing  up  and  .  Ihe  «iuu>  of  I)e  Toe. 

cmping  down  many  rm'k*,  tiU  they  came  at  last  After  tills  tbe  originality  oF  Robiman  Cnivc 
to  a  plea^nt  tpnt  of  grouml  fail  nf  grass  and  of  [ « ill  no  longer  be  sn^pected ;  and  the  idle  talc 

tatnc  F^ats  showed  his   tolilary  retnrat ;"   ami,  '  supplied  the  materials  or  his  story  lo  De  Foe, 


CATHOLIC  ASD  PROTESTAST  DRAMASi, 


279 


fn>ra  which  sur  iiirhor  borrowed  hia  work,  and. 
pihlislicd  lor  hi*  own  pmfii,  will  lie  hn.ill>  put  to  ' 
K.\\.    TVa*  1^  due  Ti'  ittc  iniurv.-d  honour  4nd  the 
gctuus  1-1  L>c  ¥oc. 


CATHOLIC  AND  PRfJTESTANT  DRAMAS. 

LiTin^Ti'HC,  and  the   arts  connected  with  it, 

in  thi«  free  tounin-,  ha%e  been  invnl*cd  with  itn 

piibiicxl  ftate,  and  have  sometime)  fiouri«hed  <ir 

declined  with  the  fortunci,  or  hut.-n  made  instni- 

mcntAl  to  the  piirp(i<<c«,  uf  the  {>.trlics  which  h.td 

ei>pou«ed  them.    Thu^  in  our  dramatic  history,  in 

the  early  perii>il  of  the  Kcfurin.iiidn,  the  CathnliLS 

were  9'.-cr<.-tly   wurking  on   the  Mai^e;    and   Iriti^ 

afttrwjri**  tlie  wyalint  pjrty,  under  I'liarlen  I.,  |»«»s- 

Kvcd  it  till  they  provdkcd  their  oun  ruin.    The 

Cithi'lic^,  in  their  expiring  cause,  look  rrtu{^'  in 

the  theatre,  and   difli:uiscd    the    invecttxeH  the> 

«ou'«l  have  invented  in  nrrmons,  under  the  more 

pop>uIjr  lorms  of  the  drama,  where  they  freel> 

ridi.uled  the  chiefi  of  the  nt-w  reltj^wn,  a^  they 

icrrecd  the  Reformation,  and  "the  new  t»«wp;i- 

lcr»,"  or  th-r^  who  "juoted  their  TestAmv-nt  as  .111 

luthonty  fi-r  their  procevding».   Fuller  noii.  e^  tins 

ciKainsrinre.    "'I  he  popish  pncsis,  tiimi;:li  un- 

<en,  »lo«id  Ixrhind  the  han^ini^n,  or  liirknl  in  the 

KTini;-hnii<ie."*    1*he««  tounti  suppi^nen  aninUk; 

riK  elder  part  of  their  ainlitors,  who  were  tcii.i- 

cimis  of  tlieir    old    habits  and    doctrines;    ;ind 

tippciserv  in  the  youniicr,  who  eagerly  jdupted  the 

ttrm  Rdr>rmation  in  its  lull  sen^e. 

Tittii.  conduct  of  the  C^itholics  ciUed  down  a 
pmchmition  from  Rdw.ird  VI.,  when  we  hmltii.ti 
fhcK"Tcmmenl  was  mr«t  anxi'uisihat  tliese  picies 
«!K.Dldoi»t  be  perffirmed  in  "  the  Kn^lish  Uinijne;" 
v)ii»t  we  may  inicr  thit  the  government  was  not 
ilmncil  at  treason  in  Latin.  l*tii!i  pnH'lamatmn 
*^i\c*.  "  thit  a  in^at  number  oi  those  that  be 
niiinirkn  pU>eT»  of  interlude*  or  pla>s,  a<i  well 
vilhinihe  city  of  I^ndon  as  elsewliere,  uho  for 
the  m.^t  part  play  stub  interludes  as  contain 
nuttcT  tending  to  sedition,  hic.  &c.,  whereupon 
irc  i^wn.  and  daily  are  like  to  f(row,  much 
•l-vi^irin,  tumult,  and  uproars  in  tliis  realm.  I'he 
kini;  char(;es  his  ikubjects  that  they  should  not 
'^olyor  secretly  play  in  tlie  Ent^ltth  tonf^ue^  any 
kind  ii  Interlude,  t'l^y,  Diulngue,  or  other  matter 
*ct  ftirth  in  form  c/  Play,  on  pain  of  imprison* 
mi'ni,  &c." 

Th»  was,  however,  but  a  temporary  prohibi- 
^00;  it  cleared  the  stage  for  a  time'  of  these 
l*itholic  dramatists;  but  re/urmed  EnterludUf  as 
thry  were  termeil,  were  afterwards  permitted. 

These  Catholic  dramas  would  atlordsome  specu- 
hiion  in  historical  inquirers:  we  know  they  made 
^cr>  free  strictures  on  the  hrst  heads  of  the  Refor- 
"laiujn.  on  Cnimwell,  Cranmer,  and  their  party  ; 
i>i>i  thc>  were  prottably  overcome  in  their  str Higgles 
*ith  their  prevailing'  rivals.  Some  may  yet  pos- 
Mbly  lurk  in  their  manuscript  state.  We  have, 
printed,  one  of  those  Moralities,  or  moral  pla\-s,  or 
allegorical  dramatic  pieces,  which  succeeded  the 
My<rm;.*s  in  the  reign  of  Henr>-  VIII.,  entitled 
"Every  Man  :"  in  the  character  of  that  hero,  the 

*  EccL  Hut.  Book  VII.  390. 


writer  nc»t  unaptly  designates  Human  Nature  her- 
selt*  TliM  oioies  Inun  the  Cailu-iic  »4.)i<ifl,  to 
rvciill  the  auditor!  but  k   In  the  lors.ikrii  m   iiio- 

IllL-S  ol'  ill  it    I'liunli;  lull    It   ji'Vi  ii   II  I   «T I 

personal  Mtirei  w  lie  k- !tiii  •«.     I'      \   i  ■   i 

thai  trmn  the  >4.i-:iiinii)  u\  liie  sii)i-,ri  U,  me  «iiiii- 
moniiig  iif  man  out  ol  the  wnrM  \,\  death,  and 
by  the  Kl'J^|^v  ('I  its  conduct,  net  without  M>me 
attempts,  htiwe%er  rude,  to  exiile  terror  and  ptty, 
this  morality  may  not  iinpn>perly  lie  referred  to 
the  cl.iss  fii  tr.igedy.  Sucn  amicnt  siinpliiiiy  is 
not  worthless  to  the  {Kiel i(  at  anii'|uir>' :  althouKh 
the  mere  iniHlem  re.nlcr  would  siton  leel  wearv  at 
such  iuariiticiaJ  pniductuius,  yet  the  invention 
wliiih  may  be  disioiercd  in  these  rude  pieies 
would  l>e  sublime,  warm  with  the  lolourings  dt  a 
Oray  ur  a  Collins. 

On  the  Side  of  the  rrfrirmed  we  hate  no  de- 
licii.-iii'\  of  alt:u  ks  nil  the  superslitiinis  .iiid  nltil.i- 
trics  ol  the  Rtninsh  i  hiir^  h  ;  ,tiid  S  itaii,  and  his  nld 
son  H>p«iirii\,are  VL-ry  bus\  at  tlu-ir  iniri^^UL-sMiih 
another  hero  called  "  Lusty  Juw-ntu%"  hihI  the 
seduLtne  mistresis  the\  iiitn.duie  him  In,*'  A*  I'lin- 
nible  I.itin^:"  tlii"  w.is  piinud  111  tl.  -  r  n  il 
Kda.irrl  VL  II  is  f-ihl  im  11  Ji  t>i  «-.\'  'jii-  '  -  1  111  .1 
ilr  iMi.i!ii' prrf>  iiii  iiue  iliij-'vr  .-iil  •. 
Hi. lit «  :i^  il  a  v.rin>.ii  Were  ii>  he  {■>  ti-n.n.ii.  i .. 
we  find  iiulIi  rude  learinii^  as  iliis  :  — 

"Read   the  V.  to  the   (ialatijiis,  and   tl.  p.    \'>u 
>ti.iil  see 
That  the  ilesh  rel>elleth  ai^iinst  the  spirit  "-- 

or  in  homely  rhymes  like  the^e, 

"I  Will  show  ynu  wh;U  St.  Paul  doth  decl.irr 
III  hisepi-tlcto  IheHebrevis.audthe  X.c  Inj-lcr  " 

III  point  ol  liy«torit.il  intormation  res|H.'ilitii;  the 
pending  strui!L'le  between  the  Cathnlus  an<i  the 
"  New  (iiisiK'llers,"  we  <lo  not  ulean  mui  h  secret 
history  lri>m  these  pieces:  yet  they  turmnsly 
exemphfv  that  rei;ul.ir  prnijress  in  the  hiMnry  «if 
man,  which  lias  sh'iun  itsili  m  the  more  reicnt 
revdlutmns  of  Huri){>e:  the  old  p<;wp!e  siiil  iiiiu;- 
ing,  from  habit  and  aiieiiion,  tu  uh:it  is  ohviUte, 
and  the  young  ardent  in  establishing;  what  is  new ; 
while  the  balance  uf  hum  in  happiiic*ss  trembles 
between  txith. 

T\\\is  "  I.usly  Juvenlus"  conveys  to  us  in  his 
rude  simplicity' the  feeling  of  that  d  ly.  Satan,  in 
lamenting  the  downfall  of  superstition,  tieclares 
that— 

"Tlie  old  people  would  Ivlievc  still  in  my  laws, 
But  the  \ounger  S4irt  lead  them  a  cuntrary  way  — 
lliey  will  live  as  the  Scripture  te.icheth  thcin." 

Hyjiocrisy,  when  infnrincd  by  Ins  'lUi  ni.Lster,  the 
Deiil,  of  the  thin^f  thil  *' Lu-ty  Juventus  "  has 
undergone,  exproises  his  »ur|>ri-<e  ;  alt;iching  that 
usu;il  odium  «it  uie.iiiiii'ss  on  the  (-:irU  rel'uriners, 
in  the  spirit  that  the  HoUauilers  wrre  nu  knamed 
at  their  tirst  revohiiKiu,  b\  their  lurds  the  Spa- 
niards, ••  Les  (;ueux,"  nr  I  lie  Bemj-irs. 

*'  Wh.il,  is  Juventus  l>ecoine  ^t  tame 
To  be  a  new  f  ;osiH.ller  ?" 

But  in  his  address  to  the  y<»ung  reformer,  who  as< 

•  It  has  been  preserveil  bv  Hawkins  in  his 
"  Origin  of  the  EngUsh  Draina,"  \oi.  I. 


TBE  HISTORY  OF  THE  THEATRE 


r^: 


ID  this  curious  cjUlDguc  of  holy  things 
HjTOCriiy  lia  drawn  up.  not  urilhout  hum 
"- — ^log  the  <cmcc«  be  bud  pcnomwil 


Holy  monki,  bol)'  (bbotl, 

Hf^T  pifdmu,  holy  bculi. 
Holy  uints,  holy  i'miRS, 
With  hghr  boty  blood; 
Holy  Hack^  holy  Bona, 
Holy  clDut%  Mr  bono. 
Yd,  nd  holy  holy  wood. 
Holy  ikim,  holy  buUi, 
Holy  rochcD,  inil  covti, 

Anil  good  holy  holy  fciuTo. 
Holy  din,  holv  (utingi. 
Holy  twilcbing,  bolv  tutingh 
Holy  TiBons  and  nghti, 

HolV  vucr.  holy  bud. 
To  drive  my  iplTiB. 
Holy  (TOt  holy  piltn«. 
And  holv  uho  Abo ; 


Holy  candlci,  holy  upcn. 
H*d  DM  you  1  holy  »d  t" 


ly  pcHarm^  imon^  CuboUc  famibca. 

^hunl^cr  rrAcctlDg*  pUy  bciu  acted 
iti4,>i  the  bouK  of  air  JobnVoifcEj 

*  muiy  foul  pafuget  to  the  TilUyio^  of 


>FTHBTHBATRB   DUBINO 


niliDii.  vu  Abaliilkcd  by  ■  public  < 


footlECEM  of  tbil  numeTDiB  fnteruily  of  EcniuL 

umyhcd  OTcr  Wit   ind  Satire.     A  >in^  bknr 
could  not,  binreixr,  •nnihiluc  tbo*  nner-ilyins 

a  body.  Rill  their  habiti  aad  their  aSECtiaiu  could 
nol  deicrt  Iheni :  acton  n-ould  attemiH  lo  nniiK 

the  laitea  of  ihe  people  vould  occHionatly  break 


nm  emphatic  eiprvwon, "  Ose 
ily  deserted  bis  tovereifcn  \  while 
ude  AHtcTcd  by  the  nabUily  and 
>r  France,  not  one  iodiiidual  ad- 


not  parallel  as  ihey  appear.  The  Prencb  actnndid 
lanalici  ihui  up  Ihe  tbeatre,  and  extirpated  the 


The  ilcHraclion  of  the  Ibealn  here  wa  the  n 
alt  of  an  ancieni  quarrel  between  the  Puriuni 
arty  and  the  whole  carpi  tfrunuiiffef.     [n  Ibi 


DVRINQ  ITS  SUPPRESSION. 


little  hiuon'  of  pli^i  ind  pJiyen,  lifce  more  im- 
poTtanI  hi^bry^wc  perceive  liuwtIL  human  evcnli 

and  wc  mmt  go  back  to  the  reign  of  Ehubeth  lo 
comprehead  in  cx'ent  which  DccunnI  in  Ihal  of 
Chancs  Ibe  Fitu^  [t  ha»  been  pcrfaapi  peculiar  Id 
Ihii  land  of  conlending  opinicMH,  and  of  b^py 
and  nnhan?  libertr*  tlu<  ■  gkoontjr  icct  waa  earJy 
fOniKd,  who,  dtiwinx,  u  Ibei  fincicd,  Ibe  ptin- 
cipk^of  tbeir  contluct  from  the  literal  preceptiof 
the  Goipel,  lortiKd  those  riewi  of  human  naiure 
which  were  more  practicable  in  a  deaert  than  a 

onkr  Iban  to  a  poiiihed  people.  Theic  vvere  our 
pL'biTANa,  who  Ml  iinrt,  perhaps  from  utter  wmpii- 
cityi  among  other  extrax^itfant  rcfnrms,  imagined 

workafrom  that  time  falicued  their  own  pens  and 


(Licm;    the  tragedian  XxOPtra  befjueathed 

the  high  regard  in  which  Ihe  great  acton 
held  amoitg  the  Romih  people. 
A  leTioor  wrilen  might  be  collected  of  tbew 

din  had  loo  Dfken  indeed  presented  a  fair  oc*..  .. 
(Or  their  altaciu ;  and  they  it  length  succeeded  in 
purifying  Ihe  stage :  we  owe  them  this  good,  hu' 
we  owe  Tittle  gntitude  to  thai  bUnd  teal  whic! 
WIS  d^tmis  of  ealinguisbing  the  theatre,  whirl 
wanted  the  taste  al»  to  feel  Ihat  the  theatre  wa 
a  popular  school  of  moralily;  thai  Ibe  stage  is  . 
■upplemeni  to  the  pal|rtl,  where  rlnnc,  iccordini 


and  sucb-like  CateipuUrs."    Yct'this'Gow 

of  pla>-s,  and  one  who  has  vindicated  Ibclr  ir 
in  his  ■*  Defence  of  Poesy."    Tlie  sairK  pi 

Ur,  Oaoeh  had  a  play  performed  at  Chrisit 

Satanic  novelty,  published  "T?e  Ouirlh 
Stage-plays,  ij93:"atedioni  Invective,  foar 
'  the  mouth  of  its  text  with  quolatiom  and  autb 
tm  thai  wv  the  age  when  aulboiity  was  itrDnget 
(bin  opinion,  mil  the  illghtesi  could  awe  the 

•wi>ly  la  in'am 

aFectingthe  airs  of  women,"  This  wai  loo  long 
a  Hagnnterll  In  the  Ihcattlcil  economy.  To  us 
there  appears  somelbing  so  repulsive  in  the  exhl- 

*  KacTobius,  Saturn,  lib.  nt.  1.  14. 


have  been  tolenleil  as  a  snhsSituEe  ihr-  Ibe  svon- 
'  e,  andthcMolliing 
:  impovible  10  give 

,.-_ ^ _ .J  any  perfection  of 

feeling  in  1  personating  male  \  ard  to  ibis  cause 
may  we  not  anrtbute  Ibat  Ibe  lemsle  chiraclert 
have  never  been  made  a  chief  persauoge  among 
our  elder  poets,  as  they  would  aBuieilly  liave  been 

A  poet  who  lived  in  Chairlca  11. '9  dav^  and  who  has 
prologue  to  Olhelli 


It  aariu  on  our  stage,  has  humamusly 

ouched 

this  gross  absunlily ; 

Our  women  ate  defective,  and  so  «icd. 

™i!a;""'™"~°"'"" 

arddif 

Por  lo  speak  truth,  men  act,  thai  are  be 

Wi^  bmwi  so'laigc!  and  ncrv"so'iinco 

nplisnt. 

Tet  .1  the  time  the  absurd  cujtom  prevailed. 

OH  Naih.  in  hitrierccPennilcs«.'.c<>mm 

age  for  nut  hating,  as  they  bad  abroad. 

m:»nd 

oduccd  on  our  atage,  endlesa  an  tbe  a 

polDgiO 

ng^" 

itoms  10  return  to  nature  j  and  so  long 

doesil 

n.^1   'It  kn'Mi" probable  that  t'his  ha| 

om  choice;  for  Ihe  bo)t  who  had'  been 

trained 

billion, 

r,^,  h«l 

r  office 

Ibe  Keslorallon ;  and.  as  Ihe  same  poelu 

bserves. 

"  Doubting  we  ^Id  never  play  agen. 

the  shadow  and  precursor  of  one  of  tbe  most  sub- 
itanlial  of  literary  ronnsters,  in  tbe  Ircmendous 
"  Kisiriomasti]^    or  the    Playcr't    Scourge,"   uf 

a  (houund  cloacty-prinled  quarto  pages,  all  thai 
was  O'er  written  against  puvs  and  players,  per- 
bsps,  may  be  found :  wbat  followed  could  only 


.ardMn 


study    of   auch   impiaua  prodi 


I,  taken  out  of  plax's  of  the  pre- 


Tilt:  HISTORY  OF  Tilt:  TIIEATHE 

mA  witlhuit  moFv  aoiusc- '  many  pcmhcd  In  Ibc  ftt\4,  'rnm  tlKir  lArciinn  for 

u,.^... ,  — ^„> avc  liiuihl  in  them.  )  (Jufir  roj'al  tnafli-r.    Eome  wiUL-ht  hunibk  oceupi' 

Tliii  uiKeticTKCulinn,   ubich   hwD   in  Ihc    (■umtuidiintarew,ii'lio.byhablnlaiiGinduln<l, 
mi^n  of  ELiiAUiH,  hul  bEcn  BHeiurlly  naenlnl    inil  tlicic  oon  lum  nr  mind,  had  biDifi  too  deli. 
'     '    '  >  put  tn  vork,  iltcmpttil  ofteri  to  ?ntrn^ 
(udieiKO.  (nd  vcR  oftcndnggul  loprifna. 
llkcse  disturbed  Audienca  verc  loo  unpluuDt 


ic  thcotrlraL  people,  ind  Uw  Canaiticf 


Eo  pas  by.    Tbey  hid 


.    Tltcvhidnud 

aod  the  pucilii 


traden  Id  wit 


the  theitRi 

^  pniing  biTC  iKcn 

fnund  very  eilectuvl."    This  wb  liui  a  mihl  cant» 

~d  the  luppimioD,  u  lini,  ns  nnijr  tn  he  U'm- 

ncy.  Buiju Ibey eiined MrenRIb, (he hvpoerilE. 

»  had  It  tint  unJy  Druek  i  REnttc  Mow  at  Ibe 

mile,  with  reihHibled  x-enj^cince  liuried  it  in 


«  occuncd  in  the  (Conomy  ol  thtM  tlraUuiK 
Liricali  I  tbcM  leiioTci  oHeo  deprii'ed  thnn  « 
r  wardiohe  ^  md  imoi^  the  &ta^  dimtiona  of 
liow  nuy  he  ftmnd  among  the  eiiti  and  the 

\,  ubich  mire,  nn  dnubt,  cnmidcRd  not  u  the 

iibitnute  pjlued 


A»irTi3„,..,»...,.di,,..„ 

GdI  rob  the  ipittic,  and  unng  Ihe  poor." 


h  the  lniig.4uppres«d  hi 


Ibenwivexu 


Eclatliedinboni''tkm>,  the  d 


n  the 


or."*  Tbif  ordinance  Biiain«t  ''boics  HJ)^, 
uHJ  wjts"  wai,  willuml  a  meiaphor,  a  war  of  tx- 
tenninatim.  lliey  paiaed  Ihnr  plouglLibaTt  Dver 
tbe  land  o(  Ihe  drama,  and  loved  It  silb  their 
(lit  I  and  the  ipiiil  vbich  raged  hi  the  gotciniiv 
pnwen  appeared  in  tbe  deed  o(  one  of  (heir  ki- 


?ixft  i  full  of  Ibe  ItadiliDnJl  hi 


te  gleaned  from  II 
er,  hii  faitaet. 
Ha:i..cBant>'- taaman.1fi 
!i  actor,"  ai  Mc.  Ciitknl  di 


i^I  or  re 


kf  rope-dADcing  that 
i-jiiiuruv,  which  waia  lai^^  vm,  «■■,■■ 
onduence  that  ai  many  vent  hack  (oi 


L'aled  under  fomelaking 

ii-cled  by  MAasir,  and  Rprinlcd  \iy  KlJUkAN,  ai 
put  together  bv  Coi,  for  the  ute  of  thealrical 
[uotha  a[  the  fiiin.*    The  argument  prehied  to 

are  from  Hiine  of  out  dramas  thw  "  Drolleria  " 
may  tilll  be  read  kith  great  amuvment,  andoAer, 

lainaacnonxbDOk-cnUectoniKexeearire,  ln"The 
Bouncing  knight,  or  the  Rohben  Robbed,'  we 
recagniievurold  frieiMlFabla1f,andbiaceleDfated 
advemure ; "  The  Equal  Match  "  la  made  out  of 


StpDTt  upon  ^jnn. 


pieces  of  DroUeiy, 
Dialogue.  TOf^hef 


ruuDIn',  or  Camp.  Ilie  like  nei-el 
I.    rrinled  lor  H.  Uanb,  i«tii" 

eprBcnlina  Ibe 
e.    Reeelal  clu- 
sdueed.  In  the  middle  of  the  Maj^, 
fiiol'i  cap  peep»  out  of  Ihe  cortain 


eems  not  to  have  rrquired, 
I  "  Mulling  "  ai  Dvn  doo. 


DUSIxa  ITS  SUPPBESSrON. 


IflUly,  invenlnl  by  Klo™    nre  coll«lioii  rnlilleil  "  Hump  Sonp,  H 
II  the  delight  of  ihc  city,    with  Ihe  uiual  incomctncB  nf  the  ptci 


■'1 


)Freat«t  tcton  of  the  bme,  eiipclled 


thcitre»  il  w«  be  who  WiU  ptcfcrveJ  bliF^  u  !(  «m„— «,i,:i-  ,^„Tf^~w,  .-i.r  i^txrw-ttr 

well  1)1  ueilth,  the  uppreiKil  ipiiH  of  the  Jnnu.       T*,r_.  I*.  tii-SmS^.h  ™  ..K; . 


only  juiige  by  Ibe  memoful  of  oarmlmctic 
K...™.,  wMch  will  be  ben  gin-  ■-  "■-''—-•- 
wonU.    "Ai  meaiily  at  you  mi, 
thi^  DuiLL>,  they  wcie  Ihen  uled  by 


Klilinun'i 


Bel  up  die  Ibeatn,  ud  ibow  the  MAge  t 
Tbii  iliDp  or  truth  And  fancy,  where  we  vo 

We  wJU  iwKdireit  youiilrini^  voteilojt 
Oi  penoDUe  King  fm*  with  hit  luie-llce 


if^'TS^  i^iSlrt  z  whiih  h^b^Ii  ^i'*h5«™'thSSibr«  SLik^f -UM 

»Pl'«  with  1 IVKC  piece  of  biead  ind  buRci,  I  not  SlTplmsl  hiit  ton  him  in  the  Tow 

bivc  lleouentlv  known  ierenl  of  the  femiik  >pee-  {J  "  wiililrDirilfcl  i^h  i™t  iin^r  on 

tuen  ind  itufitcnla  long  he  it  i"^™^  '"M  ,^,  „,^  ^^^^  ^  gp,^^  in.]iiillIilion.' 


Ve  think  there  ihonld  nr 


n, laying,'  Well, although  y< 


'"tjK["hlgh  Inih  mindi 


i."£ti?;im;2e'^«d  irt^;i?'^'rnL"niE:r;s™w 


priTilege  Agree ; 

d'nma  i»ifrwiibi>ut,  hiweve.,'«i.ugiiBhing  the  ™  oXb"™ ^°fon^,' l^t  i^'T™ 

I^"  ?^e'^e^«d"^I  li^e  h^m'lhAl  i^  Declirlng  by  as  enigmitic  iraie 

!idii!l^li'le')l2're^"Ah^™'thU  H™' ■''S3ii°""  We'^i'Si'e  i^pTc   lAu'gh 'll^i^  i 

I^hc  t^''^[JJ_^^j|;^'""^^'^"t,5''J,^JJ^  And  II  they  Imgh  u  ui.  Ihey  do  il  you; 

fi^Vl  ^'ot  ibe  ™.ntr,,  >ad  from  the  eiiy  of  ^'C.  ^XkSThTm^^^H  thin  » 

7ti'f™/Vr'"iiid'™b«e  b^n™  'IS^mbS'  '*''^'  '"H^*"  t™"  "•' '"  e>p™-J, 

decljumed  'yruh  grcit  eloquence  on  the  blood-  ?h^ij  coiIHi'Siolt'i^lVyoutoltowl 

nickinK  nubgninn  for  ininlting  the  pnvilegei  of  gg,„  „{„  ^^  |(„  ,.|„  „j||  f g^^  ,|,o„ , 

«d'm.kJ  K^  **  ';)^"(»  "  '"'*h!i'.^l.^''rh't  '^  KwSiS^  ylfu'ugitt"'  Ic"  t  tc 

by"m^]£*=^bbb^Jpy.i*^-d.'tb^^  {^"'^t^-Tj^'ve'^ow^wJle'"^" 


■ :  we'hAH  "  Pililioin  of  Ihc  PoeO,"- 


.  wB  uBiilly  depnied  lo  idUmi  pcnnnilli  1 


DBTSKINO-CVSTOMS  TS  ESGLAXD. 


UnUl  a  legal  (rUl  thow  us  how 

Suih  w«  the  pelition  of  Ihe  wpproieil  pUycr 
In  1&4I)  bal,  in  161),  thdr  ■htcI  riuliuioi 
■ppun.  Although  Ihe  >tage  «u  d«  yet  roioiw 

■e  OUT  linle  hinoT>'.    Alluding  ic  the  ibeitnu 

ople,  he  moralim  on  Ihc  (uc  of  ptayen ; 

lee  the  itnngc  tviil  a(  lima  I  when  nich  pool 

DuUivc  Ihe  itta  of  pirliameDU  or  king]  t 
rbii  rcTolutJcm  mako  ekplodctl  wit 

KqA  Ihe  CDndetnixd  Stife  hath  now  obUin'd 


A  Ihii  period,  though  deprived  of  ■  Theatre^ 
Jy  imaDg  111  lot^cn;  foti  beiiaei  the  per- 
iod loinehnin  protected  by  hnberyi  in  OUi-ei'a 

The  plAyer^  urged  by  their  necdvities,  poblifhed 


ihich  Drydcn,  contemplating  on  Ihe  red-faced 
lootish  boy  iKride  on   •  bamJ  on  our  »gn-)nMi, 


disguiting  tta^,  the  ancients  expo«cd  m  the  bcvlUl 

Spaniard,  only  lane  the  Itjxurvof  the  grape,  but 

paniei,  or  dnnking   malchei.  a*  »mc  of  Ibe 
Northern  peopk.     Of  thii   folly   of   aun,  which 


nipl  plays  of  that  igt,  uue  more  eflon,  during  Narioni,  like  indlriduls,  in  Iheir  interconne 
hil  luipemion  of  ihe  drama,  was  made  in  16)5,  '  are  gteaT  imilalon  j  and  we  have  the  lulholily 
a  recall  ihc  public  atlcnlioD  to  in  productioni.  I  of  Camden,  who  llml  at  the  lime,  for  aaening 
"hii  wall  lei^-  curioui  loUection  by  John  Col-  Ihat  "the  EngUifa  in  Iheir  long  wan  m  the  Nether- 
grare,  entitled  "  The  English  Treuury  of  Wit  and  ■  lands  !ir«  Icatnl  to  drown  tbenuelvea  with  im- 
Language,  collected  out  o(  the  mou,  and  ben,  of  ■  mwlctale  dnnking,  and  bj- drinking  othen' heiltht 

Cotgrave'a  Preface,  Ihal  "  The  Dramatic  Poem,"  |  they  had  been  befon  this  nwfi  commer^ded  for 
--  ■-- ealli  our  tngedla  and  comedia,  "had  been  |  Iheir  isbriely."   And  Ibe UnoriuMbK"  thai  the 


r  and  ol^liEute  prejudice,  have,  in  titii  nigUi 

HI)  not  duly  considering,  or  believing,  thai  U 
nirj  of  them  were  Ihe  moa  Buenl  and  1 
lulant  wits  Ihat  thb  age,  or  [  think  any  othi 


DRINMNG-CUarOMS  IN  ENCLAND- 


tnlml  b] 


ly,a,  1. 


DBtNKING-CUSTOMS  TS  ESOLASD. 


•rt  hire  the  •utliiintr  of  i  gnve  ind 
hiworlui  lo[  ucnUiDint:  Ihe  SnI  period 
1  oriEio  or  tbli  ciuwm ;  lad  ihit  the 
id  not,  heretofore,  disgncH  ittelf  br  such 
ebrieiy  it  ■]»  confinned  by  one  of  (hose 
motcniHiniy  pampbleu  of  •  i»?uliir 
IU>lctoChephi]0«phiulMn1ii]UBry. 

,_  .jwn-wil  of  the  TeiRnof  Elizabeth, 

befoR  Cimdcn  wnce  hei  hluoiy,  in  bii 
rce  PenBilme,"  hul  detecled  Uie  time  oiipn. 

rflulty  In  drink."  un  thii  ipiriled  wtiler, 
thM  ever  lince  wc'hare  mined  ounelvei 
the  Low-Countrio  ii  counted  honourable  i 
lefoie  we  ktiew  Ibeir  lingering  win,  was  held 
111  hi^en  degree  of  hKred  that  night  be. 
I  If  we  had  keen  a  tnin  eo  wailcnaing  in  the 
fa,  OT  lain  sleeping  under  the  board,  we  ihould 
ipet  at  him,  uhT  varned  all  our  Eriendi  onl 

h  it  Further  conlirtned    by  (he   barbaroui 

■rithoul  eicepiion,  of  a  bate  northern  origin-t 


bnttcr  or  rnp-bearer,  according  to  milipa ;  d.._  ... 
taverm,  as  appear*  by  onr  dnmatic  poelt.  a  dravir, 
li  Dutch  I  ot  acconung  to  Dr-  Nott,  purely  Danish, 

Half-HV  ntr,  w  neailT  dnink,  la  Ukely  to  ha 
been  a  proverbial  phrase  mm  the  Dutch,  appli 
Id  Ihal  Male  of  ebiiely  by  an  idea  ^miliar  m 
Ihofc  waler-rala.  Thus,  a#-wr,  Dirtch,  mea 
llieiilly  ntr-Ht.  Mr.  Gilford  baa  recently  K 
ut  in  bit  Jonson,  that  it  was  a  name  given  to  a 
tlupe^lng  beer  inlroduced  inio  England  fmin  Ihe 


w-freeie;"  which  Dr,N 


:  I  bnl  II  had  probably  a  nonbem  origin, 
coruMed  in  thlt,  that  alter  a  man,  lays  Naih. 


^e  cualfim  it  abo  alluded  to  bv  Bishop  Hall, 

icb  probably  Swift  lead,  and  did  not  bivel, 

his  election,  exclaimt,  dwuld  be  be  labc  lo  their 
"  Let  never  Ihis  goodly-formed  Eoblcr  of 
(o  jovially  through  me;  and  then  lie  set  it 

titer,  which  be  was  l^  cnslorn  to  hi  iipM 


of  Cohimbo  the  Spanish  ambanador  being 
. .  _  :ftird.  and  diinkinc  healths  to  the  Infanla. 
The  writer  addt,  "I  thai]  nol  lell  >iiu  how  our 
loctOTt  pledged  healtht  to  the  Infanla  and  the 
■rchdncheu  i  and  JF  any  lelt  («>  iig  d  mu^,  Co- 

Tlilt  Btcchk  freak  seems  still  prewrved  i  (or 
■  recent  IraveUer,  Wr  George  Mackenilc,  bat 
noticed  the  cnalom  In  bis  Travels  through  Ice- 
land.    "  His  host  having  filled  a  lilver  cup  to 


lost  the  t< 

Iboae  who  nave  me  nonour  oi  aimni^  m  y 
parties  are  ttill  griiilicd  by  the  an.miUng  < 
'•  Oenllcmen,  charge  your  g\svo.  ^^ 

Ing  o«,  and  aun,  •i'.-  lo  Ihtl  lo  drink  jari 
*  pierce  Pennileiie,  eig,  F  i,  ij9J. 


DRISKIXG-CUSTOMS  IX  EXGLASD. 


«iae   it.     H.  dnit  our  SoHh,  dajnng  lo  ta 

■bonld  DC0M  .nj-  pKT  of  the  cnrmony,  or  fad 

l^tm^  u  m  proof  rtm  wp   had  iwiUowrd  crcty 
dEOD^  die  defaQhiT  vookd  be  ohli^  In-  iht  l*w< 

dw  pcraMj  of  ■  jetond  dmu^l  w»  IncmiTd  bj 
two  of  dK  comptDj ;  «c  «crc  drcjK&Bg  the  conw- 

ktRKtr  rxptiincd  :  /*r  *if»lrf*j  Am^  jiUiids  to  the 
rutDin  of  boop*  being  tnuknl  on  a  drioking'poT, 

"  (bcTC  ihaU  he  in  Engljnd  Kvm  lulfpnuy  loAct 
•okl  fin-  a  penny ;  f*#  tkrit-Htoptd  p*l  ihalt  A*i  f 

bM*."      I    hue    ehewhere    otMcrred    that    aur 


Et-tankardi,  of  which  «  few  jaty  yft  occihc 
:  louDd  in  Deit>><hire  1*  the  inveDtion  of  II 


f  globuUr  gl:44ei  and  bollla,  which 


iinkaJr". 


on^ues.  the  pilh  dI  an  Ef^ll?h  ch 


■   Theic  jnventiiflB  for  keeping  ei-erv'   [hliMy 
loni  within  bi'Undl  ve  ftUudci]  to  tiv  Tnm  N43h  : 

u  intiquan-,  but  the  Ihinp  ihcnueh-es  he  de- 
•cribo  be  bid  teen.     He  leUi  oi  thai  "  Kin« 


xl  bibbing  u  Ibey  dl 


tav  ^i  forieitld  a  penny  for  eiery  dtiughl." 
ttisc,  in  hit  Anonimiaoa,  ha>  minutely  de- 

ccoQDI  Of  Kiih,  and  nearly  the  antiquity  cf  tbe 

be  unkardi  bold  two  quaiu. »  (hat  then  ii  ■ 
pill  of  ale,  r.r.  half  a  pint  of  Winchnter  measuEe, 
between  each  ^n.    The  Am  povo  that  drank 


vitihtA  It  gti  amnk,  evpeeially  when,  if  they  drank 
tboft  of  Ifae  pin  or  be}-i>nd  it,  they  wetc  obliged 
to  drink  ig^in.  In  arrhbi^hnp  Antelrn'a  Cationi. 
made  in  the  coanci]  at  London  in  t  lol»  prieib  art 
enjoined  not  to  go  to  dnnkiPC-boutf ,  ibor  tt  drink 
f  ptgi.    Tbe  wordj  are,  "  VI  Prrirylrri  nen  ram 


eeiixnily  Ibe  compoution  of  a  ^>iiciin  who  had 

wa  then  a  novelty.    Tbe  Jeantcd  writer  laments 

that  occurred  in  my  travTls  by  a  tuUen  principle 
of  miftaken  devotkHi,  and  thoi  dechned  uw  grul 
helpft  1  had  lo  enlarge  and  improve  human  ifiet." 
Thia  wai  an  age  of  nudkinc,  wIicd  it  waa  im^ined 
that  tbe  beallh  of  mankind  estcnlially  depended 

on  thii  princi^.  Out  writer,  in  notklns  tbe 
passion  of  tbe  RomaBi  lor  muhraoma,  whkh  *aa 
ealled  "  an  hnperiil  diih,"  ayi,  "  he  had  calen  It 
nfttn  at  Sit  Henry  WiHIiHi'i  table  (our  leiidenl 
ambatudor  at  Venice;.  jlwa>ii  dievcd  liy  the  in- 

Mc.  Ondirt,  and  Itvly  it   did  deicrre  the  old 


DRISKIS0-CUST0M3  IS  ESULAXD. 


n  ippctllc. 


(R)t  11  will  Dot  «■}■  1  pfrface)  I  ini  )bim«i. 
Ami  lU  mv  paM  pim-ncsHvo  will  he  jeei'd  «, 

iIkv  had  pvrfc>rah;d  Ibcir  dut>.    Banubv  Rich 

pn-sidcnl  ■■  luTiKd  Ihc  bMlom  of  Ihc  cup  vynai, 
and  ill  oimtniao  of  his  ileitcrity,  givi:  it  i  Allip, 

'lliej'  h«l  ainnng  time  "  <lomio«rinn  invcn. 

plan:, IIU  Okj  vm  loM  hy"" Ihc  ESTowoA" 

bu>(l1)ltf  Iwdio  timl  at  one  nul  and  HnaEat  id  i 
pcli«  of  liquor,  which  an  cjpmcnccd  toper  iwAl- 

JnhDion'iacciiratcdaCTiption,  vlwsccnu  tohat'c 
witihT«cd  wkiat  he  »  well  dcscrilHm.*  When 
fjliInilu^afPalni^Mliiif  dnteiity  tolngntiuc 

m^i  (br  Hip  dngniH,"  It  icnni  tfait  Ihti  wa  like- 
wbw  DM  or  IhcK  "  ftollci,"  Ibr  Huh  mlicn  that 
ihu  lli|««  wai "  te  be  niireil  ibout  *iih  a  i^mtli'i 


-Biv  droBk  he  ml^i  be. 
iTds"fwhlhbcnarcAiiaTv  ' 
i«aleo<'i.1ir1ily,that"lK  i 


Tiiii  • 


peid-ctly  hunuu.    t  think  llie  shnu 

DiitKlToi  and  I  ImiBln:  I  lui-c 

origlD.    Whvn  ebhuly  hccime  tir^  ymairut  ■ 

iinr  natioii.  durinf  th«  iEl|in  of  Ellnbcth,  it  vii 

tiniuiitc  DnlkiB  mioBi  the  w  ~ 

■nd  on  which  ther  lure 

that  a  nun  in  the  dWEimt 

the  niBt  vkicnit  qtulilT 

thnt  aeninpanjroldmiiu 

of  Imitcswilh  their  dillei 


n  dionk 
;■    1-faIiii 

bcth,  il  WB  i 
of  the  lime, 


oTdi^Tent 


'^lidl^  ^'t 


and  1  hope  thai  it  wl  hi|{b  Iiei»n."--SlHiu  MSS. 

Shalli-ipcan:,"  Vol.  1.  4j)i  a  grnllenua  more 
iniimiLlcli-  convenant  with  our  ancknl  donieitic 
naanncn  than,  perhaps  any  ^^e  indlvidoal  io 

t  Thii  tcnn  14  mnl  In  "  Banc^d(^  Ivci  lumlts  of 
l!pi,:niiit  bihI  Epitaph*."  t6w-    |  talic  11  to  have 


«  ID  ilhiunting  hit  pnqwMtinn  i  hut  Ihc 
in  Nadi  hu  cbnricd  eight  klndi  n(  "  drunk- 
i"  a  randful  sketch  (rom  the  hanil  nf  a  mi>li.T 


Ei."' ' 


I  'anJ\Un«th' fi.r 


It  da^-r,  and  li 


(or*  Utile niDie  drink anda^ 

he  cinnal  bring  tiiinb  a  lieht  wonl  i  the  Nfth  It 

mai,dlrii;lna,t,  wbeo  a  (cl£w  will  wixp  for  fcinl- 

*By  God  I  ciptain,  I  love  thee;  i^o  Ihv  wan/thou 


uionkthpy.    THeeiBhtl 

ri/^w 

I'hicb  »>ll  ncrer  baiuain  b'l 

m:i  m  >m  nmfaij,  a,  .«€ 

lllMg, 

■unkmU  are  thM«Wh«d 

lu    a 

n  the  men  are  Rpiaenled  with  hvadi  ot  apei, 

K,  tLt.  &C. 

new  via  in  Ibinhi^toTTof  ourdrinklnf;-pjr1ii.^ 
inul  abiiat  the  time  uf  the  Keiliiniliiin,  when 

Ciniiri  heated  their  vine,  and  drunkenneH  and 
fait)'  benime  moie  cinu'lf  cfmiintol.  A->  the 
puritanic  ciiidneM  wniT  oH,  (he  ^prnplc  were  pcr- 
iiclually,  in  lOjo,  wannrtl  in  dnnkind  the  iin^ 
health  DB  their  kneel ;  ami  amonK  vaiinui  klndi  uf 

" InK  cavnUeriini,"  ItaecaniUcii  durinR  Crom- 

bwrpatlDh  tttuaUy  pnt  a  crumb  of  linad  Into 
their  glaii,  and  betote  they  dnnk  il  off,  with 

ioiH  amb^iliy  oclaimal,  "i)od  tend  thit 

iAuid'down1"whWhb3'lhe  way  preier^'vs  tlic 
lepy  of  that  eiHaordinary  tnan't  nanw.  anil 
be  added  1o  the  intlancci  mliliucd  in  our 
ul  volnme  "  On  Ihc  orthiAf;iaphy  nf  pniper 

1^^'  Kime  roya]>9l%  told  hy  u1iile1nck>'  In  hl> 

linu  party  of  CatiNne;  they  rningled  Ibeir  own 


*  I  nhall  prescrre  the  storyinlhewnrdtpf  Wliiu 


188                                        LITERARY  AKECDOTES.                                               j 

"  DriDking  Itae  Unr-i  h«llh  wu  tcl  up  l»  loo 

Ihu  on   eetlain  coUeclot.  0(  anecdote.!  "Thtiv 

are  not  alwiji  to  happy  at  to  aelcct  Ihe  mmt  im- 

^r  >,»»  S«»<  o.™  -ft"  h"  mijolr-.  raton- 

porllnt.  1  know  ^  well  what  aivaouge  poitiniv 

can  receii-e  from  <1»«ily  clreumaince  l>)  whi.-h 

mankind.— the  irr<(ir/«riiytf*«#*l(fi  nor  can  I 

UTBKAKY  ANBCDOTES. 

think  miielf  overpaid  fbr  Ihe  time  ipenl  in  Ie.ulinK 
the  life  of  MalKfft,  by  being  enAli^d  to  relate. 

after  the  learned  biographer,  thai  Malh..Tbe  had 

dived  by  otberii   in  hit  b>»l>  iDcokKo,  even 
JmuW  ibey  he  (imiliir  lo  u.,  ^  .uxrplibie  of 

neo  of  a  lioEle  woman  mi^I  deKIOy  all  her  boail 
of  ancient  3«cent;  the  olher,  that  the  Fn-nch 

■Icductwni  >nd  iuhnncet,  wbich  becDme  nQtel 

and   impoiunl   Inilhs.      Futi   of  Ihemicka   in 

included  the  •erne  of  both." 

refitctioM,  and  berome  inlmroi-en  wilh  out  fctl- 

These  jMt  otaetvationi  nuy,  peihapi,  be  further 

ton  hai  in(i>fmed  the  AiiriJlhat  many  tf  nr  pata 

"phUnopiiy  teubing  by  dimple  j"  lh»t.  in  Ihe 

■nun]  world,  tbey  an  what  Die  wue  •yilem  ol 

trilling  lo  tell  u.  Ihit  I>r.  Johnvm  wa.  actuMomol 

doced  from  enperimeuBi  Ibe  Sudy  of  KUDie  in 

"  Icp  tul  *u  -aili  »  (*.  v"''*"    "  'm  ""rt  much 

hR  operuisM.     "Wben  exjmpla  m  pwnKd 

grtalir  „umHr  ^ilt^tiiini  than  any  Mber  perton, 

kind  of  ippol,  witb  uhich  we  ire  MineRd,  midc 

eicepnng  one.  wboie  name  1  baveieally  Ibrgotten. 

The  innraction  comet  then  from  om  luthorilj  ; 

we  yidd  Ip  f.d,  Khm  we  reiiit  jpctuUiion." 
F«   lbl>   nim.  writen   aXattuU    d»uld. 

The  jfrii,  Ihal  he  Uudied  on  (Ik  Moor,  Ijing 

proHnte  on  a  carpel,  with  big  book)  about  him  ; 

UWOC  tbeil   recRlliDIu,  be   Unxnin^  l  conunl 

amciblc   imcU,  which  lie  uwi  lo  Inform  hia 

kindred.    In  UHtuy  blngnphy  i  mm  of  geniui 
■Iwivi  Knib  wnKlfiing  which  relUB  to  bimKlf. 

[i^cnd.  he  had  ID  comtnon  with  Al«aa<ler  ihc 
Great !    Tliii  admirable  biographer  thould  have 

lety  uiKjay  altilude.    Romebc^y  inform,  in,  Ihal 

HI  the  UDie  difficullin  to  cncounler,  ihhough 

Ouy  Fatin  leaembled  Cicetn,  wboae  .lalue  ii  pn> 

Ibey  do  mt  lU  meet  with  ibe  ume  glni}'.    How 

par><on  of  Paiin  wilb  Cicciot  but  a  man  may 

fnend.  will  nol  convey  lo  him.     He  incci  Ihe 

■allkl  load,  hii  life  of  IMscartei  with  a  IhouBnd 

cipieni  and  ihjdowy  inempB  wbich  clcaed  in  i 
mat  work.     From  one  he  kam>  in  what  miniKt 
he  pUnncd  end  comcted  i  from  uolbcr  he  may 

KibUc,  tbai  IMscana  wa.  reij  paiticular  about 
hi.  wigii  Ibal  he  h«l  them' manufactured  at 

Pariii  and  thai  he  alwa>i  kept  lour  >    Thai  he 

hequilteJlafletylocclolhi'indlbalbewai  tbnd 

ownunnni*edUboui.    U-hal  peifaapi  he  had  in 

vain  daired  lo  know  lor  half  hU  life  ii  Rvoled  lo 

lih.  that  "  Mr.  Chillingworth  wa.  of  a  «alnte  lillle 

menn'of  indolent  houn  maV  impan  the  rigour  of 

superior  to  Ml.  Halai  and  il  u-u  an  <((  in  v'te* 

Itrrr  uvri  Duny  grtal  and  VJt-dirfi,l  mlm  tf  THAT 
■III."    Lord  Falkland,  formerly  Sir  Ludui  Carey, 

bodth.    How  tupcHlciil  a  Ihal  cry  of  wime  im- 
penincnl  pRIended  geniuKi  of  theie  times  who 

idect  to  eiclaim,  "'  Givt  me  no  uiecdotn  of  an 

author,  but  ^.e  me  hit  workjl"     l  haie  ofttn 

K>  Iha'  L«d  Falk£id  wd  to'^y  mmily.'th^Tbe 

Dt.  Jobnioo  deioted  one  of  hi.  periodical  papen 

in  hi!  company  where  he  was  the  properer  man." 

^CDd   (or   .   (b-nirgeon,  and  »  wen:   dlKo.ered. 

HStS^SSSSSSS 

nliUliih  Ihcm  into  a  gencTid  principle ;  ai  if  the 
small  ure  «l  the  meoliiMl  o-eil  Ihe  Vemolefl  con. 

^iStSSiSSewVr."''"*''' "' 

ha|>%  too,  there  wa<  in  thi<  a  l.ncture  of  the 

f 


COSDEMNED  POETS. 


389 


btX  ought  not  to  have  degraded  the  truth  and 
^nity  of  historical  narrative.  Wc  have  writers 
wbo  cannot  discover  the  particulars  which  charac- 
XxvsK.  THE  Man, — their  souls,  like  damp  gun- 
powder,  cannot  ignite  with  the  spark  when  it  falU 
00  thexn. 

Yet  of  anecdotes  which  appear  trifling,  some- 
tiUDg  m'*-  be  alleged  in  their  defence.  It  is 
cntainlv  safer  for  Mtnt  writers  to  give  u»  all  they 
know,  t^an  to  try  their  discernment  for  rejection. 
Let  ns  sometimes  recollect,  that  the  page  over 
which  wc  toil  vrtU  probably  furnish  materials  for 
authors  of  happier  talents.  I  would  rather  have  a 
Birch,  or  a  Hawkins,  appear  heavv,  cold,  and 
pfc&x,  than  that  anything  material  which  concerns 
aTillotsonor  a  Johnson  should  be  lo«t.  It  must 
abo  be  conficMcd,  that  an  anecdote,  or  a  circum- 
tfance,  which  ntuiy  appear  inconsequential  to  a 
reader,  mav  bear  some  remote  or  latent  connexion ; 
a  biograpoer  who  h-u  long  contemplated  the 
cfaancter  he  records,  seen  many  connexions  which 
escape  an  ordinary'  reader.  Kippis,  in  closing  the 
Efe  of  the  diligent  Dr.  Birch,  has,  from  his  own 
experience  no  doubt,  formed  an  apology  for  that 
minute  research,  which  some  have  thought  this 
writer  carried  to  exccn.  "  It  may  be  alleged  in 
oar  author's  favour,  that  a  man  who  has  a  deep 
and  extensive  acquaintance  with  a  subject  often 
aces  a  connexion  and  importance  in  some  smaller 
circumstances,  which  may  not  immediately  be 
discerned  by  others ;  and,  on  that  account,  may 
have  reasons  for  inserting  them,  that  will  escape 
the  notice  of  superficial  minds." 


CONDEMNED  POETS. 

I  FLATTxa  myself  that  those  readers  who  have 
taken  any  interest  in  my  volume  have  not  con- 
cdved  me  to  have  been  deficient  in  the  elevated 
feeling  which,  from  early  life,  I  have  preserved  for 
the  great  literary  character  :  if  time  weakens  our 
entbosiasm,  it  is'  the  coldness  of  age  which  creeps 
on  us,  but  the  principle  is  unalterable  which 
inspired  the  sympathy.  Who  will  not  venerate 
those  Ma&ter-«pirits  "  whose  publirhcd  labours 
advance  the  good  of  mankind,"  and  those  Books 
which  are  "  the  precious  life-blood  of  a  Master- 
spirit, imbalmcd  and  treasured  up  on  purpose  to  a 
lific  beyond  life  ?"  But  it  has  happened  that  I 
have  more  than  once  incurred  the  censure  of  the 
inconsidcrue  and  the  tasteless,  for  attempting  to 
separate  those  writers  who  exist  in  a  state  of 
perpetual  illu^on  ;  wbo  live  on  querulously,  which 
IS  an  oil  for  themselves,  and  to  no  purpose  of  life, 
which  is  an  evil  to  others.  I  have  been  blamed 
for  exemplifying  "  the  illusions  of  writers  in  verse," 
by  the  remarkable  c^se  of  Percival  Stockdale,  who, 
after  a  condemned  silence  of  nearly  half  a  century, 
like  a  nvacious  spectre  throwing  aside  his  shroud 
in  gaiety,  came  rorward  a  venerable  man  in  his 
eightieth  year,  to  assure  us  of  the  immortality  of 
one  of  the  wor«t  poets  of  his  age  ;  and  for  this, 
WTYite  his  own  memoirs,  which  only  proved,  that 
when  authors  are  troubled  with  a  literar>'  halluci- 
natioo,  and  possess  the  unhappy  talent  of  reasoning 
io  their  maonesA,  a  little  raillen-,  if  it  cannot  cure, 
may  serve  at  least  as  a  salutary  regimen. 


I  shall  illustrate  the  c.tse  of  condemned  authors 
who  will  still  l)e  pk'.iding  alter  their  trials,  by  a 
fcreign  dramatic  writer.  Amung  those  incorri- 
gible murmurer*  at  public  jiivico,  not  the  least 
extraordinary  was  a  M.  Pc>r:iud  de  Bcausiol, 
who,  in  1775,  had  a  tragedy, '"  Les  Arsacides,"  in 
six  acts,  printed,  not  as  it  was  acted,  as  Fielding 
sayps  on  the  title-page  of  one  of  his  comedies,  but 
as  it  was  damned  I 

In  a  preface,  this  "Sir  Fretful,"  more  inimi- 
table than  that  original,  with  all  the  ^avity 
of  an  historical  narrative,  details  the  public  con- 
spiracy ;  and  with  all  the  pathetic  touches  of  a 
shipwrecked  mariner — the  agonies  of  his  literary 
egotism. 

He  declares,  that  it  is  absurd  for  the  town  to 
condemn  a  piece  which  they  can  only  know  by 
the  title,  for  heard  it  had  never  l>een  !  And  yet 
he  observes,  with  infinite  naivete,  "  Mv  piece  is  as 

generally  condemned  as  if  the  world  ^ad  it  all  by 
eart." 

One  of  the  great  objections  against  this  tragedy 
was  its  monstrous  plan  of  six  acts  :  this  innovation 
did  not  lean  towards  improvement  in  tiie  minds 
of  those  who  had  endured  the  lung  sufferings  of 
tragedies  of  the  accepted  size.  But  the  author 
offers  some  solemn  reasons  to  induce  us  to  believe 
that  six  acts  were  so  far  from  being  too  many,  that 
the  piece  had  been  more  perfect  with  a  seventh  I 
M.  de  Beaussol  had,  perhaps,  been  happy  tu  have 
known,  that  other  dramatists  have  comidered, 
that  the  usual  restrictions  are  detrimental  to  a 
grand  genius.  Nat.  Lee,  when  in  Bedlam,  wrote 
a  play  in  twenty-five  acts. 

Our  philosophical  dramatist,  from  the  consti- 
tuent principles  of  the  human  mind,  and  the 
physical  powers  of  man,  and  the  French  nation 
more  particularly,  deduces  the  origm  of  the 
Sublime,  and  the  faculty  of  attention.  The  plan 
of  his  tragedy  is  agreeable  to  tlicse  principles : 
Monarchs,  Queens,  and  Rivals,  and  every  class  of 
men  ; — it  is  therefore  grand  !  and  the  acts  can  be 
listened  to,  and  therefore  it  is  not  too  long  !  It 
was  the  high  opinion  that  he  had  formed  of 
human  nature  and  the  French  people,  which  at 
once  terrified  and  excited  him  to  tini^th  a  tragedy, 
which,  he  modestly  adds, "  may  not  have  the  merit 
of  any  single  one  ;  but  which  one  day  will  )>e 
discovered  to  include  the  labour  bestowed  on 
fifty  !" 

No  great  work  was  ever  producctl  without  a 
grand  plan.  "Some  critics,"  sa\8  our  author, 
"have  ventured  to  assert  that  my  six  acts  may 
easilv  be  reduced  to  the  usual  five,  witliout  injury 
to  the  conduct  of  the  fable."  To  reply  to  tins 
required  a  complete  analysis  of  the  tragedy,  which, 
having  been  found  more  voluminous  th.in  the 
tragedy  itself,  he  considerately  "  published  sepa- 
rately." It  would  he  curious  to  ascertain  whether 
a  single  copy  of  the  analysis  of  a  condemned 
tragedv  was  ever  sold.  And  yet  this  critical 
analysis  whs  such  an  adminblc  and  demonstrative 
criticism,  that  the  author  as,sures  us  that  it  proved 
the  absolute  imposMbility,  •*  and  the  most  absolute 
too,"  that  his  piece  could  not  suffer  the  slightest 
curtailment.  It  demonstrated  more — that  "  the 
gradation  and  the  development  of  interest"  re- 
quired necessarily  inen  Acts !  but,  from  dread  of 
carrying  this  innovation  too  far,  the  author  omitted 


CO.WDEUlfED  POETS. 


sHT  jiet  vbkh  paocd  bchlruL  (he  icriia!*  but 
whJch  ouitbt  lo  ture  cook  in  between  Ibe  hfth 

uko  up  two  houri  iiul  three  qLunm^or  ibiec 
houn  xt  mcHt»  if  wmr  ttf  the  meat  impUMOed 
pattt  were  l^ut  d«Liimcd  npldt)  .t 

which  happened  it  the  jtctlPR  of  this  (ragcdv. 

the  lint  xc^e^  ind  even  ippUud  one  >  In  me 
not  be  told,  beciuw  ihcK  were   lublime,  >ncl 

urbecTiii  ihm  ire  other  iccm  fir  mute «ib- 
Lime  in  the  t^ce,  vhicb  the)'  perpelluUy  inter- 
nipted.    wiil  it  be  btUciid,  tiut  they  pitched 

u  il  ■'ould  tlitx  lu  on  Ibe  >Uge.    I  wu  dcH, 

do  not  un<kiiund»  it  atwayi  ted>o»  i  ind  it  wu 
IKited  in  »  ibuckiiig  i  tone  tQ' Ihe  ulros,  who 

deelumed  in  4  twanging^  tone»  lilse  pvJm-iiiigin^ ; 
■othal  the  AudLcnce  could  Dot  hEar.unoDg  lhc*c 
fitigukng  dlvonUncei  (Ik  meun  their  own  bin' 
ing^*  Dor  fcparate  the  ibDughti  jnd  words  from 
the  foil  chinl  «hkh  Knunpuiinl  Ann,  They 
olqected    perpctiully  to  the   use   ol  the   woid 


Dui. '  tay  fViRHiw ."  lliigdixaiKcn 
iMy  alio  ob>ecleil  Id  the  wonb  mpn 
tpnfu.    Yet,  after  all,  how  are  tb< 

to  Ibnyili  in  Ihe  count  oF  tortj-fuu 

Tiut  fabtorian  of  his  own  wrondic 
ceedi,  with  all  Ihe  timpUciiy  of  Uiii 


fffli-f  would  be  perfectly  an  character  wilb  ti 
^lic.when  Mn. Dingle ihou^t his |nece"ratt 


It  FretTnl ;  when  [k 


emalned  disconcerted  ayd  siLent ;  the  whole  wai 
iroken,  wrong  and   right;   it  wa&  all  Hebrew. 

vere  tcTti5ed,  aiid  lbe>'  eirhcr  cimc  Ibrwardt 
ITDIbling,  and  only  watching  the  flignt  of  Ibeir 

kho  felt  so  deep  u  intcfest  in  the  fate  of  my  ^cce, 
ru  tramiuil  dul  alOnliTe  lo  hb  dntv.  10  produce 
•  line  eOecl.  After  the  hnilv-boily  wis  oci,  be 
ell  the  irtors  rnule  wUh  Ibar  arrrit  crossed-  Tie 
■pened  the  scenet}'  \  and  not  an  aclnr  cuuld  enler 

Lnd  Kuch  the  inlrepHhty,  of  tlie  army  einplo>'ed  10 


hich  hu  most  evMcally  Ihe  contruy  delect  I" 


:iuse,  detaibnc  Ihem  with  the  most  rigid  ver»- 
;ity.  Thn  author  wu  unquestionably  a  hud  of 
Jie  most  honourable  prohiiv,  and  twi  destitute 

useful  example  of  thai  ^Tontf^headed  nalure  in 
E  men,  which  his  produced  10  many  "Abbots 

rince  by  i  reeipmeaiion  of  irKuments;  who, 
ming  false  principlo,  act  ri^Uy  iccuTding  to 
rucLves ;  i  soil  of  nKgniL  lunacy,  which,  when 


:ct  who  liRIc  inptclc4  Ibr  niimniin  IiiIh>I  lhi>  luilr  |il»lul  nl' 
filiciRirlil,  nmiD  tnlKil hi  a hwM  iwtr.lir  ihiwalM  |n>'|Hi  i 
itirkd  "  KcpoiiK  iId  rulilir  1  r  AhIiui  |  •  •«•  lihlnm  ihii  ii  ■  »  • 

V  ibM  ihe  PuhHf.  wlwbMl  Iwni  «iUii-hiII     Ibn  nliiii,  iii 


^     ind  ^pirkllng  pjgc  irf  the  ti4ii»:bi>  lln  ('ti4. 
pMeTRdlbeciutlie  truth*  nil  lbrpl<';»<hUil  kiMill- 
'-  thi»  "  EpIitM  lo  Ibe  fiiblK,"  ifc»  jiitbn  m- 
I  lu  that,  "cuHed  hjr  njiiiptr.  jhI  rmini* 

rhc  plitM  el  (he  oriKtaul  cdiliim  jrr  In  Ihi 


;iS:;;;rS.'.S;";, 


,,,                                               TQH  a  BEDLAMS.             .                                       \ 

Sit  Wiltct  StoH  lirn   obligingly   luggeued   Id 

me   thv   theic   roi-ing   Iniutics  wete  out-door 

TBI  hiMory  of  J  riM  of  lingulir  mcndirinli, 

M  they  could  wilh  the  pitunce  erjBted  liy  Ihc 

koown  by  Ihc  unie  of  Tin  i'  Brdlanu.  cnnnfcu 

hmpilal. 

ThefiitlcM  Kcountthat  I  hiveobuiBedof  Iheie 

pHulItd  Iheir  enulence,  bul  Ihcy  ihcmiclicj  »p- 

trsrjcribed  from  tome  of  Aubre> '.  p^cti.  which  1 

hive  not  Kcn  pnnled. 

•pctiH  of  wlM   (JBIMtic   poclri-,  pnuliii  lo  oar 

"  Till  the  breiking  out  of  lb*  civil  wm.  Ttm  •■ 

A«U>«r  did  travel  >boiil  the  tonnny ;  they  h^ 

""Bolllein  Ho^HUl  fcnnni.  in  iD  ongiiul  inSihi- 

MKloe  r.g^  hil  ItJff.  hi.  knotted  luir,  ind  with 

pitjcnai  AnUyitipTnd.  bcsdo  clolhrng.    It  a 
>  mclJMlloIr   (id   to  iHord  in   Ihi   hmory    of 

hu  pulpoje  lud  Ihc  plice,  cipihle  of  wtiking  oo 

piuenn  itaDuJd  pnnide  theiT  ckilhn,  it  wii  loon 

women,  children,  Mnd  domenicj,  u  he  winJered 

^mhing  b/lhc  ™'^^n_^'|'  i^^  ^"^/ 

up  ud  down  the  counts-  :  ttiey  refmed  nothing 

to  i  being  who  wu  a  temAc  to  them  u  "  Robin 

lunitic  bin>,  ■omctima  wilh  pr»>-en,"  the   go- 

pet-pljy  :  thev  cime  with  a  hollow  noiK,  whool>- 

quSlj-  di«:h«gli,g  p.6c-a  who«  ™«  migt,  be 

iog.  le.ping,g»nibollinK,  wildly  duiciM,  with  . 
tierce  or  diuricted  loof."    TheK  «u^  mendi- 
cant! were  called  "  Tom  of  Bcdlim'i  hind  of  mad- 

vny  cquivocil.    H»mii™  lunjQa  thrown  Oiuj 

lis,  >wl  ■niinij  i  ftnuUSd  drcn  lo  xnaa  ihc 
Dotke  of  tbc  f>»ri»blc.  on  whw   .lm>  Ihcy 

Decker  hu  ptcjeiYcd  Iheit  ■'  Maund,"  or  begging 

lired.    Ttaey  hid  I  kind  of  Hilunii,  which  1  hnd 

a  poor  man  thlt  hath  been  in   Bedlam  without 

docrihcd  by  Ruidle  Holme  m  •  CUIwiu  lod  a- 

dart,  and  bestow  Olie  piece  of  nnall  lilver  toward) 

-  The    Bcdlim'  ha  i  long  itrf,  iiiil  .  cow  or 

hi)  las,  which  he  ia  indibteiUhercUf  JJ.  I]l-jid.- 

Di-hom  by  hu  aiile;  hu  cluithing  fintuuc  (pd 

(or  toioch  eflcct]. 

Or,  ■■  Now  dame,  weU  and  wi«ly,  what  wiU  >-ou 

d«knl  lud  droKd  lU  o«i  with  rubin)  CnbJndj], 

&rv.^^;  ^vr.-'^j.ic;  s-s 

cutting  of  )-our  loWi  aide,   wi  bigger  Ihan   n.f 

h   DO  Mbs  lluD  1   w.ndciing   ind   diBcmbling 

kn«x."    Thi.  writer  here  po.nu  out  one  of  the 

Ikn.'t^wi^  ^.T'l'r  of  Xer°^eu'«°d"'wS^ 

Bicimcei  roolling  fram  licmiing  even  biimlm 

luniiio  to  num  iboul  the  cDuntry ;  foi  i  <ei  of 

give  poor  Tom  an  old  ihcfl  to  keep  him  (mm  the 

culdi  or  an  old  doublet  anil  jerkin  o(  mv  maatcr^j 

lerm  (or  cirtiin  •wnly  roguet,  (OBceiled  them- 

well  and  wiielv,  Ood  lav*  the  king  and  hH  coun- 

Ki.« in  their  «j/i™.  tmmd  the  counny,  >nd 

cil."      Such  ia  a  hutory    drawn    Irom    Ihc   very 

which  prrvailed  in  that  of  Elizabclh,  ai  Shakspcare 

■  Stowc'I  Sumy  of  London,  Bnot  1. 

baa  90  rinely  ahown  in  hii  Booxa.    This  JUuiul, 

and  thoc  ainimcd  mannen  and  cuwnu.  I  itaould 

p.  Itl.    Thb  II  a  nngulii  wort,  where  Ihc  writer 
iiH  contrived   to  turn    the   btrm   tubjccu  o( 

worked  up  into  that  meat  fanciful  and  riclicHcein 

of  nalive  poeBj-,  which  penadci  the  character  o( 

Kb^  "bnf  thi" tolio'jI^^i™lir^h'S 

the  wandering  Eoo..^  lomentcd  by  "the  Cnnl 
fiend."  whence 

the  mot  CDpiDiii  tocibuluy  of  old  Englitb  Icmi), 

Iwelie  cDpieieiUnt  of  IhiiYaymi  wort,  which 

To  take  ihe  tutnt  and  mon  pooicM  ihape 

"  M^IK.'  "'ri^i«.rce  of  onr  domeflic  biMo 

the  "Eoglub  ViUjnLei"   o(  Decfcct.  «c  find  i 

lively  description  of  the  "  Ahram  Core,"  Of  Ahram 

And  the  p«1  procecdi  wilh  a  minute  picture  of 

nin,   Itae   impoMor  who   pcnooited  i  Tom  o'    "Bcdliin  Iwggin."    $ce  Lkh,  A.  II,  S.  ].              1 

r..i"^-:,i 


oil  III  he  'couli^iy :  u 

EJUS" — - 

(iDnafpTtaw  iiifKiiui^.    Aiiini^nuruK-npt  | 
trnf -An-*,  ind  Ei]^jrtlu*CB  hi^kprcck 

heath,  to  manht  u  he  etc*,  "  to  wihc*,  a 

iDd  tnulul-Iawo* — htarl^nm  T  thr  hpn  is 

.u-vi_,  ef  hi  «„^«,mT.  •hen  he  tii 


Icjrue.1  \f  the  f^ni  'i^siiiuai  :.-r  il.t 
r.nfcuBdtii   ihcm  anb   "ihc  t^U; 


iimn  ncRu:n^  RKm,  iml 

_.    .      »  lEo  d^iuiJ.iww  lUn"  1 
i;.^i  utltw    do  Dcthiiu  tut  liu£h  lo-l  ««p,>i  ■(■«  tli 


arpoeiii'<nwngtliewini  Ihcr  iccin  to  hne  hrU 
toHthcr  podkal  come4<,  nut  Mine  of  lline 
uriten  beciRie  (clrbmni  lot  tlxir  tucicMul 
dfert*,  for  old  I*uc  Walton  mcnlium  >  "  Mri 

^ut»Te>'>iDfDrmtti(in  hpcrlW'tly  cnrmt ;  for 
■howtd  u  Uk  nukof  Bedlini.    "TIk  Incliih 


lnilHM-...k«lii 
Vim  ncvit  be  h- 


n nctrl iXaamy  fn-l and  Imlinfc 


i94            TSTRObCCTtOS  OF  TEA,  COFFEE,  AND  CHOCOLATE.                  \ 

In  Ihe  lorely  lain  of  BolUm. 
in  «nhble  soft  and  dainty, 

BnvebtKelea  strong. 
Sweet  whip.  diUB,  .long. 
And  •  wholesome  hunger  plent}-. 
With  a  thought  1  took  for  Maudlin, 

'*S!^i^*u'ir"'^'"'^" 

I  r^H  into  Ihii  dotage. 

I  slept  not  lUI  the  ConiguesI ; 

-nil  then  inereroaked; 

™  the  roguish  hoy 

Oflm-ewhetelliy, 

Me  round,  uidstript  me  naked. 

When  short  1  have  sfaon.  my  ».■•  f«, 

An.1  the  Invely  owl  my  morro-'; 
The  flaming  dnke. 

Memu""?i^^r'" 
The  Misie  lilajue  Ihese  pounces, 
Wbeo  1  prig  your  pig.  or  puUen  j 

Your  chtntitleet  and  sullen  i 

With  wakinii  soul! 
I  no-er  am  adSghted. 

fojrcn^m'h^arteiping, 

Tb*e"m^  ^t^es'KJ'ielSl? ' 
And  Ihe  Qneen  of  Lore  her  warrior  i 
While  Ihe  lint  doe*  horn 
The  Stan  or  the  mom. 
And  the  next  Ihe  heavenly  fairier. 
With  a  he.rt  of  (Urioui  linciei. 
Whereof  I  am  commander  ; 
Wiih  a  burning  speir, 
Andabotxorai^ 

Wiih  1  knight  of  ghofls  >nd  shadows, 

Melbink>il»iBiout»yt 
The  laH  alania  of  this  Bedlam  »ng  contains  ihe 

ISTRODUCTION   OF  TEA,  COFFEK,  AND 

It  is  Slid  that  the  fraien  Norwegian.,  on  the  fiiW 
sight  of  roses,  djied  not  loach  what   Ihev   con- 
Rived  «cre  trees  budding  wuh  fire  :  and  ihe  na- 
Bve.  of  Vitpnia.  Ihe  hr^t  time  they  v:iied  on  a 

quaniity  cf  gunpowder,  W'hich  bewn^d  lo  Ihe 
EngUsh  coUmy.suwed  il  lor  grain,  eipecting  to 

h.iive%l,  lo  blow  away  the  whnle  colony. 

impeded   Ihe  linl  period  irf  Va^narion ,  when 
some  hmlliei.  terrined  b>-  the  warning  of  i  phiii- 
ciln,  conceived  their  r»ce  wo»ld  end  in  a  specie* 

We  smite  at  Ihe  linqibcily  of  the  menof  nature. 

among  Ihem  of  eiotic  noveUiei ;  and  vet,  even  in 
civihied  Europe,  how  king  a  lime  Ilrae  whose 
pTDtession,  or  whose  repuutlon,  regulate  public 

when  their  ludicnui  abaurdjliei  and  obstinate 
piejudica  enter  into  the  matleisof  hision,  it  b 

of  Ihe  Chinese  le.f,  which  now  aikirds  cur  dail. 
relreshment;  or  Ihe  American  leaf,  wIh-c  .cd..li.c 

nation,  of  Europe,  and  bare  been  analhematiied 
bv  the  lertDtt  and  the  liclions  of  some  of  the 
learned.    Yet  thu  seems  to  hire  happened.  Pitin, 
■ho  wmie  so  furiously  against  Ihe  inlroduction  of 

siecle."    In  Germany,  Hanneman  considered  tea- 

in  his  tnalise  en  hot  lii|uon,'.i«pecl.d  Ihat  ih^ 

■he  use  of  Ihii  shrub,  hom  various  motives.    In 

land  under  Ihe  name  of  hay-siater.    "The  pro- 
grcH  of  Ihii  ramou!  pUnt,"  u>i  an  ingeniou. 

those  who  had  courage  to  taite  it:   resrOed  as 

cCring  the  whole  U^fiom  Ihe  ^e  to  the 
CMtagc,  only  hy  the  slow  and  lwlUe«  effort,  of 
lime  and.!! own  virriies."* 

The  history  of  Ihe  Tea-!hmb,  written  hy  Dr. 
Lettiom,  IS  usually  referred  to  on  Ibis  Mibjcct ;  1 

Shon't  k'lraed  and  curious  di>ertation  on  Tea, 
■  7111,  4I0.     Lettsom  has  niperHtded  the  K)>emn 

Iritling  of  hH  moral  and  med\cal  ads  ice. 

origin  in  Europe  j  neilhet  Ihe  ancienD  nor  those 
of  iV  middle  age.  tasted  of  IhUluiury.    Ttiefim 
account,  we  fiS  of  the  use  of  Ibli  ihmb  are  the 
CBual  notice!  of  traveUer^  who  >:em  to  have 

•  Bdinhutgh  Review,  lBlfr,p.  IIJ. 

•    r.       '•!•.'.'■         .     :  ■  .  ! 

,  .'  ■  ■    •    I   '. I-  :!.-   i        . "  ,.•  .'  ■        ■■'.  . ■"    ■.   .ii  i.i      ■      .    . 

.    .  ■  ■■    II      r.    v.  •■  'i  .1  viiir.i-;i'*  1-  I   -^   .1    It    li-.   i.  Ill  *•   1  ■  .1  111  I  I.        :;  I   I        .'■:.■     ! 

Ii-'-i-  Til'."  .'.IP     l»  i»i  V  <  I  *'  il  li..i»  Ik   M  .it-.T  "    lli«l  MX    I"   >l!l  i"*.    .iIhI    m  •!   i-'.'-M  -.    !«.r     t-  11     I  ■   i;:iil«     I    .<. 

IV.    I   •  il  T  i-.!c   «-ii-ii;-   m  t  t<»  liHC   f  .  iiiiiis' tuii  il     |iii\iiiii  \\m.' il.  .u.il  :n  r.    j.ii  r  «.l   i!  i  I.;  i..  r  m  iii  i - 

II  I  I  f'lC  fi^Tir.  ill  (>U';iriu<  in  i".i."».     I>r.  s.n  rt  h.i<    iu-'»>4  .aiul  il-  itii-i  it  liitii  h.  i  ii  i  ii;\  v.-.l  .i«  i  ii-    I 

r  .-:jriU-fl  .tn  .inccilotc  of  a  hTr  it  i^vin  •  I  tlio  liiitvli     lmIU  in  lni^li  iti  .ii:iii-i.to  .uiii  i  ii?rii.iin.iii  iit^,  .mil    : 

in  Ititir  vii'iid  vov  t^c  tci  Clmi  >.  !■>  \«|]i>h  tli'-y    ]>rcM.'nt%  in.ulc  i!:(-:i.-i  I  tfi  |-iiiii  co  :inii  ,L;r  iii<lt'-.-'>  nil    I 

at  ti:*l   rl.'ijinrti    tlicir    tc»    w.ilif-i.t    i1  ?iiiir<  iii;    tlic  w.ir  ifi57.      I  Ik-  «  ml  (ii(\ii\    ilni  ]:.ri  li  •<- ■  ,i 

inoiK}  :  l:i'.y  carriciiiroin  t-ii'mc;:r(..it  ^^  rv  f>l  ilrii  li    i|ii,iiiiity  tlu-ri-ol,  .ami  isrst   i-i.IjIhU   m.IiI  rlic  ^mi    j 

i^-^',  jnil  l..irtcrc(l  it  uith  tlic  Cliiiivc  li<r  tci ;  atiil    tcj  in  UtiJ  iit  .:'j/.i,  in  ule  .Ki(>r<liMi:  tn  llic  ilm-i.-    ■ 

rt\'civ>.d  thrc<  rr  frn;r  in-uniK  f>t   t<.-i  fi-r  ( ii«  r^i    rion^  (it  tli'-  Illl>^l  kiti>\«inL:  rnrnhini^  iii:<i  tin  sc    ■ 

Vijx  :  t'Ut  3t  l'.-ii-.:rh  t!ic  lint^h  iri.Ul  i.nt  rxiM-ft     K  ittcm  (Kiiiitn^N.     <mi  the  ki)ii\\;cil-:r  •>!  the  mhI    ■ 

v'tilii  is'iit  iiuinttty  nf  •u-i^*  t(i  ^ii|>|  1>  ilu-ir  il 'iii.iinl.    fr.irw.u'n  i  i.iitiiiii'il  i  .iTi-  .iIhI  in<lii->ir\  in  (14  uu-    j 

Tlii«  fu.t,  li'^wov't-r,  pritc9  iiuMi  iLq^lv  tin' iini^i-    ini{  \\,v  |i- st  i<..i,  mil  n.iViii;:  lim.k  tlirro-t,  \<  rv    : 

Oiti'in  IS  I 'inccrn'-ii  uitli  nur  pilii-,  \"T  tlic  (  l;i<  '  in.iny  n<>|iii  nifii,  ^ilix-tu  l.lll^,  iiur.  Iiiiiis,  \.i  .,  I:  iw 

n'.'x.',  ^;lccU'tl  by  ttic  I'XotiL  ii(iiil*\',i  I  iiN.ili-rird  <-iir    i-\rr  •>iiuc  V  ni  Id  I.imi  ti  r  iIii-n.i<I  kit,  iiiilil.il\ 

%i;rc  To  \<  TTitirc  pre-  i  u;*  lli.in  tlu-ir  tc-.«.  '  ii'Mirl  ti>  liii  lii-ii-t.-  id  tlimk  tin  ijtmk  iii<Ti nt.     Ih- 

Ilic  •ir't  iiitri'iiliiitioii  ol  tci  iiiT'i  Kiiti'J»-  \>  n«>*  ,  m  Hi  tf.i  in  in  I'u,  in  soj.  .i  |«.ui.l.*' 
a*  t-Tl:iiiK-il  :  <i.'i'ririlin^  to  tlu- C'lnindii  :m  i  i-iint'^,  i  Hiri|i;i|il\  ,i.-.i  w.is  lu.r  m  i;i  nrnl  iiv  ilfiin-Mi.  I'lv 
|T  i.iirif  i'lto  P.ii.;!.iiul  lr>)m  Mil!  mil,  in  rrr<i(i,  \\  Ik  ii  mi  1  iic  ,is  in  iii*^;  ;  ii<r  in  ili-- lii  rv  i-!  Ilriir^,  l.iil 
Ixrti  Arlnc'i  n  an.l  !•  rtl  (Nh  r>  l.nn  :hr  i  \rr  .■  iil  Cl.in  iiiU  n.  In;  ii:."is!rf.  Ili  it  '"  I'l  "  d  nji,«  •  mi;-. 
«n-jl!  •(Uintii>  :  tliC  •  i.-irom  nt  il:i  ikni.;  tc.i  I"-  pcil  uiih  mr,  mil  .iIIit  ^l.|>{l^r  wi-  IikI  i>  i,  \\|.i.  I. 
(.jiiv-  t.iMiii-n  <l'!c,  ai'.il  .1  |>!iuni|  x\i-i  :!i(  "  lil  tli<.n  lie  >.ii<l  u  i- re  iilx  .iNi-.i><<fl  !'<  hm  In-  li  i<l  ili -lil  iii 
•'■*■  M\»*  rljillui.i;->.  'I'lii'*  .ii'i '  nnt,  l.«•^,\l■^«T.  i>.  I»i  r'l.int."  II  nl  l.i-.  !■  riUI.iji  In  •  n  ni  ilu  .■.■i..  m; 
nil  n:L-«n4  >.iTi>ttct"r\.  I  li.ivi-  li<  .inl  t-l  ''!i««.t  li.il.-ii  oI  (InmLiii  :  tr  i.  In- I.  iI  i:<>i.  |-r'>)i  l).l^,  in  i'Ii 
0"»nuiil"«  txMp'l  ill  iIk-  |'iiM,-*-ii  n  i-t  .i  ■  i-ll-.  i  i..r.    it  .i  »nl.:''.  t  ii-r  In-  ili  ii\ . 

nJ  tLn  uiU  tl<.riir.!e  the  thn-iirl-i^y  dt  ilin^i-  U  l.ik-  tin  iiniidur  (>l  n.iid.ii.i  ,i.  ;  ti  i  iiii\  It 
•Titen  who  .-^n.'  pt:riK-tu.iU>  icpxini^  the  n->s.Mri  Iil«  ili^).nt(.il  U-iU'Vii  ilic  l.n  :.i-li  .  nl  ilii.-  Di.nli,  tli.ii 
bf<.tli'.-n,  wirhc>ut  oiniiriiiiiii;  (  r  iiirrL-itiiii^  thciii.  i-t  u-ilcc  rLinniii  lictunn  ii:i.-  Kn -Ii<}i  .itni  ii:<.- 
Amiilyt  the  ntiil  coiitL-^t<  vt  tlic  Dud  li  ami  tliv  FrLin  h.  Yet  .m  I'.ili  ni  inii  nik'!  t:>  li  \i-  wk  n;  n  il 
Enc'ii^h  k::^t-In>lii  C«-inii:ini'.-i,  the  lion' ur  df  in-  t!i<.-  |l.iie  i>l  hnnt.i.r  i  il.  ii  .n'.iiir  i:>le  tri\;.<.r, 
titHlurini;  iT»  U5C  into  Eisrrjic  m.iy  be  el.iiinc-il  by  Metro  Ji.ll.i  V  ille,  uiiiiii^  lr<.in  riii-,'«:  ii-,! mi ■]•.•-. 
bcnh.  Ijir.  Short  ci'injeetiiTX")  th.ii  ti-:t  iiii^ht  have  lOi:,  to  a  Knmin,  hii  ulid\\-<  (.iinir;.  [iiin,  inii  rm- 
iK-rn  known  in  Eiij;l:iuit  as  l:ir  b.irk  at  the  rei^n  ot  '  lilt;  iiiin,  that  he  kIiiiiiM  tL.uh  l.iii<)>i.  m  \^t.  ii 
Jiinc«  I.,  Uyr  the  ^.l>l  fleet  set  r.ut  in  i(*oo:  but.  '  in.iniuT  the  'links  imk  vih.ii  he  i.tlli  "  I'.it.u," 
h»lthc  u<<:  or  this  jdmili  been  kQnun.  the  ncveUv  ,  it  .i^  tlie  wnnl  i.'^  written  in  .iii  .Ar.il'ic  •nil  l.n.li-li 
hid  been  I  hronicled  am'  n^  onr  ilr.ini.itie  wrilirs,  ii.iir.pl.lct,  [>riiitk-tl  .«i  (ixlnul,  kki), on  "ih.-  n  lUne 
vli^ne  vnrks  nrv  the  ann;ili  oi  <  nr  prt  valent  ta<«t<.»  i.i  ihe  ilni.k  h.iiJ,i  dr  I'm;'  k-."  .^s  ihi-^  «<  \>:\r,  iii  il 
uni  hunnoiirs.  It  is  utlier  extr n.rtlin.try  that  cur  tr.uilkr  IncJ  in  i<>:j,  it  ir-ty  exuif  Mirpn-i-  lliil 
Ldl-Iiuhj  C'  mpany  »hi:iil<l  nnt  hive  ili-iniere'l  the  tirM  <  ii|i  nl  (iiiUi-  w  is  i:'it  ilruiik  •!  K<iiu  . 
tl.c  uy:  cf  thi4  shrub  in  thtir  cirh  .iihenTiiris  ;  thi>  leTiiins  li  r  tin-  ili'.iuiirv  t.t  ■u-n,.*  mi- iiil-Lr 
i<:t  It  certainly  was  not  kri' I  wn  in  Kniil  mil  Ml  late  as  fit  tlie  "  .Aii  tiliiii  ^litl  i\."  Cnr  •un  I'lin  h  •->,  tr 
m  1641,  for  in  a  ikMtcc  "'rn,Mti<  ol  Warm  B-er,"  tl-.c  tinv  th.it  V.tlk-  nn  tr.  w  i*  il-n  "  .1  I'l:. •11:11," 
where  the  liik  indicates  the  author'*  (lesi>^n  tn  re-  1  ami  w»  II  km  w  uh  <t  w  s  "  I'y'  i,"  whi.  h  *•  !:••  \ 
C'.ininend  hot  in  prefereme  to  tcilil  dunk*,  he  ,  ilr.mk  ..s  h'li  .i-.  il.-.-\  1  m  •  iii|iir<-  it  ;  n  i«  .is  :.i  -i  k 
n\wt  !n  lea  nnlv  by  tjiie-tinq  the  Jiviit  M  itleiS  .is  v  nt,  .nnl  t  isti-*  not  m.iu  h  nnhke  it ;  l;<  "<I  \\:'-\ 
iCf.unt,  that  "  tficy  of  China  tin  U-t  the  in«.»t  p-irt  ;  mv  t«>r  ili^'.stu.n  ami  nnrtli." 

drink  the  9traiiied  li(|nnr  ut  »n  herb  railed  Chia,  j  It  .i|ipi.irs  b>  I.e  di  nur-t  "Vie  privi  c  ili^  1  r.m- 
li"*.'*  The  word  Cha  it  the  hirtHitue'C  term  for  .  ^cis,"  tli.il  tlie  cilehrat- <1  I  'ii-tinf  t,  in  i'i-:>.  •.  .^'.• 
tcJfet:tine■l  tn  thisday,  whieh  they  JM.rrowed  from  lollL-e  .'itti-r  diniiir  ;  but  ii  m.is  ii-ii>iikriil  .is  iln* 
thcJipinevr;  while  our  intenoufxe  with  tlie  Chi- '  m him  i:t  a  lra\illrr;  nriiher  tin- tlnni:  iiscli,  imr 
ncsc  maile  us  no  d<ubt  ad«:jit  their  term  7/u/r,  '  its  apiK-iriiuc,  m.i->  iiiviinii; :  it  w.i>  prnln'il)  .tltii- 
rifw  prev  dent  throuiihoiit  Kurnp.',  villi  tlie  ex-  bnt'.«l  l:j  iliri'.i\  tn  ili'-  iMininnr  *;l  a  v.nn' i<l:il<>- 
o.T»t»'*n  of  the  f*ortiii{iieso.  '1  he  I'hin-se  ori>;in  is  si.pl.ical  tr.v  ller.  Hut  u-n  \iir>  .ilt-.rw  n.'s  ., 
*>»'.!  I'TtH.-ned  in  the  term  ^"Ar.i,  tfi  wlii.h  I'.met  'lniki>h  an.'-.-  i-lnr  it  I'hk  i:..i.;'-  iI;--  I.,  i--  i-.i 
frum  the  country  «>f  /vuhi ;  ami  that  «.f  H\i'-n  w.is  ,  In  ;h;y  I  .si.inii.ii.ir.  ]  jn.-  1 1  .r  m.  |.  ,,f  jjn-  c-ii.ij- 1  .t 
(he  Rime  of  the  inrnt  considerable  CinneMr  then  rii  oiiinit  mli.-d  u  tn  the  i-.e,  .nnl  iImtui  il  i:i> 
(i>nccnied  in  the  trade.  unmcri:  the  biillimi   )nr|.  ;  ,in  ci:)is  inwliuli   n 

The  liest  account  of  the  early  use. -ind  the  priiC<  "«. IS  |.iiiiti-i1;  tl.e  lupk.iis  iii:i:<i|  unh  e- 1-1.  md 
cf  In  in  Eni;lan(l,  appears  in  the  iiamlbill  (•!  i  ne  the  'I  urkish  sl  iii-s  nn  iln  ir  kin-  «  |>ri.-M  ntin.:  1'  tn 
«ho  may  he  called  our  first  7 <'•i-m.J^l>.  This  tii-  the  luin-s,  v  itnl  nii  iln-  i^t'.unil  on  rii-hiniis, 
'iout  lundbiil  t>ear«  no  d;ite,  lint  as  Ilinway  as«-er-  turn'  d  the  hi  .nls  nl  tli>-  I*  iM-riii  «l  niu-s.  'I  lii^  --I  - 
'UDril  that  the  price  was  sixty  shiMin:j:s  in  i6fio,  !;:tnr  intrtHlnt  Imi-  niuli-  tlu-^  >•  m>  )>e\i.Ta>:e  i  suli- 
thbhillmu^t  hax-e  Ixren  dispersed  al^out  that  ]>e-  ji-<l  of  innxerviiiun,  md  in  lit-i.dU  Aviin-niin  >i 
riod.  '  l'.iris  .it  the  f  iir-tiiiu-  nju-in  il  .1  » ii'ke-lnin-^'.      U"' 

Thnmas  OarwaVy  in  ExchanKe-alley,  tobicnmist  '  the  <  ustnm  still  pnxnldl  tn  s.  n   lu-ir  .nnl  \^>'*'' 
jiulrolTee-inan,  was  the  hl^t  who  sold  and  retailed    and  tn  snuikr  .mil  mix  \iitli  miliilL-ieni  tiniil" 
lc«,  recommeiulicK  It  for  tlw  cure  ot  all  dliiorder^,  '  iu  their  first  inii»<.rleet  cotk'c-himses,     .K  hi*) 


-  • '-  —  ^- 


296 


INTRODUCTION  OF  TEA,  COFFEE,  AND  CHOCOLATE. 


tine,  one  Procopc,  celebrated  in  his  day  as  the 
arbiter  of  txstc  in  this  department,  instructed  by 
the  error  of  the  Armenian,  invented  a  superior 
establishment,  and  introduced  ices :  he  embel- 
lished his  apartment,  and  those  who  had  avoided 
the  offensive  collec-houses  repaired  to  Procope's, 
where  literary  men,  artists,  and  wits  resorted,  to  in- 
hale the  fresh  and  fragrant  steam.  Le  Grand  says 
that  this  establishment  holds  a  distingxtiahed  place 
in  the  literar>'  history  of  the  times.  It  was  at  the 
coffee-house  of  Du  Laurent  that  Saurin,  La  Motte, 
Danchet,  Boindin,  KouK»eau,  &c.,  met ;  but  the 
mild  streams  of  the  aromatic  berry  could  not 
mollify  the  acerbity  of  so  many  rivals,  and  the 
witty  malignity  of  Rousseau  gave  birth  to  those 
famous  couplets  on  all  the  coffee-drinkers,  which 
occasioned  his  misfortune  and  his  banishment. 

Such  is  the  history  of  the  first  use  of  coffee  and 
its  houses  at  Paris.  We,  however,  had  the  use  be- 
fore even  the  time  of  Thevenot ;  for  an  English 
Turkish  merchant  brought  a  Greek  scr\-ant,  in 
165a,  who,  knowing  how  to  roast  and  make  it, 
opened  a  house  to  sell  it  publicly.  I  have  also  dis- 
covered his  handbill,  in  which  nc  sets  forth — 

*'  'iTie  vcrtue  of  the  coffee-drink,  tirst  publiquely 
made  and  sold  in  England,  by  Pas(}ua  Kosee,  in 
St.  Michael's  Alley,  Comhill,  at  the  sign  of  his 
own  head." 

For  about  twenty  years  after  the  introduction  of 
coffee  in  this  kingdom,  we  find  a  continued  scries 
of  invectives  against  its  adoption,  both  in  medi- 
cinal and  domestic  views.  The  use  of  coffee,  in- 
deed, seems  to  have  excited  more  notice,  and  to 
have  had  a  greater  influence  on  the  manners  of 
the  people,  than  that  of  tea.  It  seems  at  tir^t  to 
have  been  more  universally  used,  as  it  still  is  on 
the  Continent ;  and  its  use  is  connected  with  a 
resort  for  the  idle  and  the  curious :  the  history  of 
coffee-houses  is  often  that  of  the  manners,  the 
morals,  and  the  politics  of  a  people.  Even  in  its 
native  country  the  government  discovered  that  ex- 
traordinar>'  fact,  and  the  use  of  the  Arabian  beny 
was  more  than  once  forbidden  where  it  grows  ;  for 
Ellis,  in  his  "  History  of  Coffee,"  1774,  refers  to  an 
Arabian  ms.,  in  the  King  of  France's  librar}*,  which 
shows  that  coffee-houses  in  Asia  were  sometimes 
suppressed.  The  same  fate  happened  on  its  intro- 
duction into  England. 

Among  a  number  of  poetical  satires  against  the 
use  of  coffee,  I  find  a  curious  exhibition,  according 
to  the  exaggerated  notions  of  that  day,  in  "  A  cup 
of  Coffee,  or  CotFec  in  its  colours,"  1663.  The 
writer,  like  others  of  his  contemporaries,  wonders 
at  the  odd  taste  which  could  make  Cotlee  a  sub- 
stitute for  Canary. 

"  For  men  and  Christians  to  turn  Turks,  and  think 
To  excuse  the  crime,  because  'tis  in  their  drink  ! 
Pure  English  apes !  ye  may,  for  aught  I  know. 
Would  it  but  mode — learn  to  eat  spiders  too.* 
Should  any  of  your  grandsires'  ghosts  appear 
In  your  wax-candle  circles,  and  but  hear 


*  This  \\ilt>  poet  was  not  without  a  degree  of 
prescience ;  the  luxurv  of  eating  spiders  has  nei-er, 
indeed,  become  **  moJish,"  but  Mons.  Lalande,  the 
French  astronomer,  and  one  or  two  humble  imi- 
tators of  the  modem  philosopher,  have  shown  this 
triumph  over  vulgar  prejudices,  and  were  epicures 
of  this  stamp. 


The  name  of  coflfce  so  much  call'd  upon ; 
Then  see  it  drank  like  scakling  Phlegethcn ; 
Would  they  not  startle,  think  ye,  all  agreed 
Twas  conjuration  both  in  word  anil  (Kcd; 
Or  Catiline's  conj^irators,  as  thev  stood 
Sealing  their  oaths  in  draughts  ot  blackest  blood  ? 
The  merriest  ghost  of  all  your  sim  wouM  sav. 
Your  wine's  much  worse  since  his  latf  yester^. 
He'd  wonder  how  the  club  had  given  a  bop 
O'er  tai'crn-bars  into  a  farrier's  shop, 
Where  he'd  suppose,  both  by  the  smoke  and 

stench, 
Each  man  a  horse,  and  each  horse  at  his  drench. 
Sure  you're  no  poets,  nor  their  friends,  for  now. 
Should  Jonson's  strenuous  spirit,  or  the  rare 
Beaumont  and  Fletcher's  in  your  round  appear, 
They  would  not  tind  the  air' perfumed  vith  one 
Cast'alian  drop,  nor  dew  of  Helicon  ; 
When  they  but  men  would  speak  as  the  Godsdo^ 
I'hey  drank  pure  nectar  as  the  Gods  drink  too^ 
Sublim'd  with  rich  Canary — say  shall  then 
Tliesc  less  than  coffee's  self,  these  coffee-men ; 
These  sons  of  nothing  that  can  h.->Tdly  make 
Their  broth,  for  laughing  how  the  jest  docs  take; 
Yet  grin,  and  give  ye  for  the  %'ine*s  pure  blood 
A  loathsome  potion,  not  yet  understood, 
Syrop  of  soot,  or  essence  of  old  shoes, 
liasht  with  diumals  and  the  books  of  news." 

Other  complaints  arose  from  the  mixture  of  the 
companv  in  the  hrst  coffee-houses.  In  "  A  Broad- 
side against  Coffee,  or  the  Marriage  of  the  Turk," 
i6';a,  the  writer  indicates  the  growth  of  the 
fashion  : 

"  Confusion  huddles  all  into  one  scene. 
Like  Noah's  ark,  the  clean  and  the  unclean ; 
For  now,  alas  !  the  drench  has  credit  got. 
And  he's  no  gentleman  who  drinks  it  not. 
That  such  a  dwarf  should  rise  to  such  a  stature ! 
But  custom  is  but  a  remove  from  nature." 

In  "The  Women's  Petition  against  Coflee," 
1674,  they  complained  that  "  it  made  men  as  un- 
fruitful as  the  deserts  whence  that  unhappy  berry 
is  said  to  be  brought ;  that  the  offspring  of  our 
mighty  ancestors  would  dwindle  into  a  succession 
of  apes  and  pigmies ;  and  on  a  domestic  message, 
a  husband  would  stop  by  the  way  to  drink  a  couple 
of  cups  of  coffee."  It  was  now  sold  in  convenient 
pennyworths ;  for  in  another  poem  in  praise  of  a 
coHcc-house,  for  the  variety  of  information  ob- 
tained there,  it  is  called  "  a  penny  university." 

Amidst  these  contests  of  popular  prejudices,  be- 
tween the  lovers  of  forsaken  Canary,  and  the 
terrors  of  our  females  at  the  barrenness  of  an  Ara- 
bian desert,  which  lasted  for  twenty  yean,  at 
length  the  custom  was  universally  established; 
Qor  were  there  wanting  some  reflecting  minds  de- 
sirous of  introducing  the  use  of  this  liquid  amoi^ 
the  labouring  classes  of  society,  to  wean  them  from 
strong  liquors.  Howel,  in  noticing  that  curious 
philosophical  traveller.  Sir  Henry  Blount'^  "  Or- 
ganon  Salutis,"  1659,  ol)served  tha'  "tnis  cofla- 
drink  hath  caused  a  great  sobrie./  among  all 
nations  :  formerly  apprentices,  clerks,  &c.,  used  to 
take  their  morning  draughts  in  ale,  beer,  or  wine, 
which  often  made  them  unlit  for  business.  Nov 
they  play  the  good  fellows  in  this  wakeful  and 
civil  drink,     llie  worthy  gentleman  Sir  Jaroct 


cnARLES  THK  FIRSTS  LOVE  OF  THE  FINE  ARTS. 


HoddJford,  nrbe  Introduced  the  pnctice  hereof 

drhdic  nation.'*  Here  it  »ppen^  what  ii  mcM  pro- 
biUe,  that  Ihc  ux  of  ihia  beny  wu  intiodiieed 
by  other  TnrUih  merchint),  bedds  Bdwuib  lod 
tntiervint  paiqua,  Bui  the  ciulom  of  drinking 
mflee  unongthe  bbouiin^claaKidonnDtippcu 

Dheipat  beverage,  the  popular  prejudice  prv- 
riikd  i^nit  it,  uut  run  in  fjirourof  tei.  The 
umtnry  practice  prev^h  on  the  Continent,  where 
. , J  —-•-■-_  ,|„|,  jnfljt  in  the 


ler  iedii|[  the  lir^  be 


loned  b>-  i  bell,  lo 

fleen  of  HoUind  were  not  then  built  hy'irmi  lea 
robuit  than  the  fleeta  of  Brilain. 

Tlie  frequenting  of  colfee-houm  h  a  ciotom 
which  haa  deciiued  within  nur  recoUection,  lince 
institutioni  of  t  hi^KT  character,  and  aociet]: 
ilaeif.  haa  id  much  imprond  within  lile  yean. 
ThcK  were,  howei-er,  the  cammon  aMemhliei  of 
-"  cluaes  of  loeielF.     The  mercantile  man,  the 

■n  of  letteni,  and  the  man  of  fashion,  had  their 
appiopriaie  coifiie-houjea.    The  Taller  data  from 

-'-  --'-n  ol  Chjrietll.,  iliij,  a  proclamation  (or 


thli 


h  ConMtulion.  the 

:oncrived  that  "  the 
[hi  be  an  innoccnl 


^|9  from  being  read  in  Ihems  and 
pcr»ii  from  spreading  acandahiui 

1  mual  have  iRqiiently  puzzled 
le  muter  to  decide  wbtt  w«  K>n- 
book  wai  fit  to  be  licenced  to  he 
It  poUticat  intelJi^nce  might  be 

'ai,  probably,  to  intimidati^  rather 

le  npanlaida  broughl  fmcn  Mnlco, 
denominated  ChmlatUi  it  wai  a 


eiale  bk  of  chocolate.  In  the  Krentccnlb  cen- 
Jiy,  waa  eonaiderAl  aa  u  Tiolent  an  hidamer  of 
>e  paiaions,  that  Joan.  Fran.  Kauch  pnblithcd  ■ 
..taliae  agaimt  il,  and  enbccnl  the  neceaily  of 
forbidding  the  manti  to  drink  it ;  and  adds  that 

which  that  holy  order  had  been   branded 


.   This  attack  on  the  i 
ate,  h  aaid  ID  he  the  c 

are  told  that  they  we 


K^fE^i"  Lo^' 


lUg  after  eoftee-housei ;  they  : 

>mmon.  Itoger  North  Ihm  iovelgha  against 
npmted  by  a  new  invenrion,  called  chocolate- 
quality,  where  gaming  is  added  to  all  the  rest,  and 

the  colleges  of  its  professors,  as  well  as  his 
a  of  diKipline."  Koger  North,  a  high  Tor;', 
and  altomey-general  to  James  It.,  observed,  how- 
ever, that  tnae  rendeit-oua  were  olten  nut  en- 
liftty  composed  of  those  "  factious  genlty  he  so 

"i  dreaded:"  for  heaays,  *'Thi»wayof  paA> 

imc  might  hive  been  atopped  at  lirst  before 
le  had  poramed  themselves  of  some  eonvcnl- 


"Jif 


sale,  ai  1  certainly  collect  from  these  words  of 

arrtriau'cheraHer  deReville,'1cc.  Hetdbuihe 
told  the  l^me  Kininir  what  waa  engraved  on  the 
diamond  waa  thearme  of  a  Frinre  of  europc,but. 


J98             CHARLES  THE  FIRSTS  LOVE  OF  THE  F/.\E  ARTS.                    | 

Sophj.  .boukcd  Mm,  -whm  he  lud  Krrtdf 

maje«y  could  name  Ulem.     II  was  four  o'ctotk 

He  Hid,  •  ID  Englind  uncltr  Cbirio  I.,  lod  \bu 

in  Ihe  moming  before  \bci  parted,  and  then  the 

he  «u  1  cipuia  in  hii  guinb.'— ■  Wh.  did  you 
k»r  bt>_>nvice>'    ■  He  w»  muricRd  by  ciuel 

king  and  queen,  together  with  the  French  ambai- 

theSophy,  'toiomi-ehim!'    And  »  diirKcd 

anoiher  time,  "  The  kins  and  queen  were  enter- 
tained at  lupper  at  Goliici  the  duke'a  paintei'i 

him.    »oirT.«tni«wii.f™dithrludiiidibe 

uhh  of  Bi^nd  had  been  on  the  nJ,  Itiil  Ibcr 

bouse,  which  could  oot  stand  him  in  leu  than  a 

Mory.    YouwiUukhowT».cniierKOt  Ihi.icJ> 

I  HippOK,  Uulthc  prince,  in  hit  nvceHtiei,  uLd  it 

i^un'ii^'tbi^.     V^u'muk  me  lUolLct'Her- 

Itimson  hibils  of  Ihe  gentlemen,  and  Ihe  white 

bcn'i  ucounl  on  reading  Ihii,  wi>  Ihe  lineiilahly 

afuUmpmcut  on  the  diimand,  which  Taver- 

hS3,^aI!d^',^™"™™lh"uiIi^''™ 

culallv  iuHzulptule  and  (uinling." 

supplied  the  editor  of  Jonson,  who  has  presnved 

Tbij  B  an    innince  of  coniectnraj  etidenee, 

vhere  in  hilori.-al  bcl  leeira  caabli^cd  on  no 

u>i  Mr.  GiHonl,  in  his  mtroduclion  to  Malinger. 

cieniwl  in  hk  libnn  on    a  priiale    and  wret 

■■  which,  though  modem  r.^finemenl  may  aH«l  to 

event  a  ceDtiny  anei  it  liid  occnned.    The  dia- 

mond val   of  Charles  1.  may,    probably,  be  yet 
diswtied  in  the  tceaHRi  oi  the  Fenian  Scm- 

^'^^H^»  aniw*'^^^  B^kmX^ 

"'^arbunon,  who  had  tanged  with  ke«n  deildit 
Ihtouiih  the  irc  o(  Chsito  1..  the  nobkjt  and  Xbc 

fensund.as  wmewiU  incline  lo,  lot  U^  lavish 

expenK  i  it  was  not  unusual  "nth  the  great  nobi- 

of  Ihe  world  peipetiuU)-  Lnxructi.e,   hai  jmtly 

olivrved  Ilie  kiog-i   p»ian  fin  Ihe  tine  am.     11 

Ihe  duke  gave  to  Chirtes  :„  co«  her  kird  between 

.aj  .ndeed  inch,  thai  had  the  iii^  of  Chatlca  :. 

tour  and  nve  thousand  pounds.    The  ascetic  puii- 

proved    pro.pennn,   that    ioveT.iKn    about    i&,a 

un  would  indeed  ahhor  the*  Kene<i  bul  their 

national  chamter  gentler  fechogs  and  more  ele- 

the  nation.                                                    °^ 

The  mind  of  Charln  l,  wai  moulded  hv  the 

repuUicau  ipirits  in  their  tender  >'nulb  ;    Miliuh 

owes  hu  Arcadoand  hii  dclichllul  comua  to  a 
ousque at  Ludlow  Caale i  anTuHiTiLOcat,  who 
waa  htmH'lf  an  actor  and  manager,  in  "  a  ^Icndid 

a  (.Teater  Aiouiite  tot  llwK  congenial  laKe^  and 
the  frequent  eifaibition  o(  Ihov  iplendjd  maiqua 

royal   nunquc  ol  the  fciuT  Inns  of  courts  >nining 

lure  of  hallC-dancca,  with  the  voice  of  mmic  ;  the 

chanm  of  the  .me  of  Jonvin,  Ihe  Kenic  mach.- 

prynncputiliJiL-dhisHislrionwitix.   "to  inanifesl 

neij-  of  Inirfo  Jones,  and  the  vanet)  of  tincihU 

Ihe  diflerenee  of  tlicir  opinio™  from  Hr.  Prynne'i 

devices  of    (icrbiet,  Ihe    duke's    lichiteet.    Ihe 

drawing  up  hi>    "MemorvaU   of  Ihe  'Engliah 

Allar^"    and  occupied  by  Riaver  concerns,  to 

(idence  of  BuckinKham,  ol  »hicb  few  bul  cunow 

have  dweU  with  aU  the  (nndiKS  of  irmineiccncc 

bit  despatches,  declatea  be  had  nevvr  wiinencd  a 

anlteiT  curioot  de»cr.pi«n  of  "tbae  (itum 

apaltmen^be  balkts  at  wppe..  which  .ete 

UUa,  and  Ihe  mwic;  Itaeaiikc'xmn  conlriv- 

tharla  I.,  indeed,  not  only  poweaed  a  cnlical 

the  relics  of  anliquity.     In  hit  flight  in  164a,  the 
king  Boptied  al  Ok  abode  of  Ihe  tehgicui  bmily 
of  tSc  Fanan  al  Qiddintt.  who  had  there  raised  • 

nasHnes,  »hicf  admitted  oolv  one  pervn  at  a 

olthe«//.«. 

form  an  UluMialed  BiUe,  Ihe  wonder  and  the  talk 

"  Lax  Sunday  at  night,  Ibe  duke's  grace  nner- 

al  the  counlty.    In   turning  it  ever.  Ihe  king 

at  Vork-bouie  vith  great  Icaniin^  and  show ,  where 

all  Ihin^  came  down  in  cloiuli ;  amonM  which. 

king,  and  the  Iwo  queena.  wiih  tbeii  chieiot  at- 

t  Mr.  Gillord''s  Memoiii  of  Jmnon,  p.  M. 

CHARLES  THE  FIRSTS  LOVE  Of  THE  FISK  Ainv. 


WM  KM  ont  lo  Enjtiind  to  iwomotL-  the  CilhiiHc 
CAUvCt  tbi;  Hilitik  anU  i^Iv^^hiI  Curdinat  Bariwripi, 
allnltlH.'pfDicctaraf  ihc  enifUdi  at  Kanw,  Inim- 
4uccd  ^niuti  lo  the  kiiffi*!  fivouT  by  nuking 
him  ippnrinigrointlinfbi  prwuring  him  fine 
^cturoi  lUliiei,  and  curioMici  i  ud  the  cunctt 
intiidrin  utd  onlen  cIvbh  hj  Charia  I,  ihotc  hii 
perfect  kDowledgi!  oftfat  moM  beautUiil  cxiilia|{ 
RDUiuor  ancient  ait.    "  The  italiio  m  on  vn»- 

iiburiae.  "nor  ihall  I 


»  pntimlail}' 


iljttiica  and  palntinpo^ 


Tbi»  moniUTh.  wiin  piiHicvrJ  "  fn\a  and  IvvntJ^ 
palacA,  dli  of  tbvin  titijcantiy  and  ciim|iictely  fii" 
Id^hell,"  had  Inininl  Ten-  an<likTiil>k  viillccliiiii 
"  The  vilne  of  iiiciiirn  did  doulikd  in  Eunipe,  In- 
ilatiun  hvtwccB  nur  Cliarki  aul  Philip  IV. 


. jurranalii'iMn ' 

■vIriB,  "aU  the  MniiS  fi"-!'—-'  -"  - 
hia  pictuns  iliiwni'd  u 
ricbcd  aU  the  colhi-tlnni ...  tunf. 
*1kd  fiimpkte    wen:  onlf  ■ppi 
IhnutA  the  wbnle  cullretiiin  nr  the 
tiea  w«e  wld  at  ahure  5B.D3ef.t     Hi 
"  tlie  tery  liimry  imi  medah  -JA  SE.  Jji 
laieaded  hy  the  t^'nenb  lu  lie  biuuKl 


;hcd  witli  IIk  a 

reiy  Inv  p*ie^  e 

llfl'.'cuti.. 


thia  hi 
kni-ki 
the  o< 

uRIy . 
•'•-  pi 

all- 


caiilryi  lint 


I   Wiiitckvke,  Ihi 
weallb.  In  apply  ti 

It  tn.  nnly 
hIcirniEif 

idecL  icalttfrina  I  but 
V,  peTbapa.  object! 


ii»  md  niedali 

;  la  Ibeeyistr      . 

naned  to  the  thij(nlar  Lite  of  appni- 

iiicu..    ^ifer  Ihe   Keitcrnlii.n  iciy  many  linoki 

Iheie  precimu  remaini  cf  anelcBt  air  and  biifory 


cd  by  the  Rl-t.  ]cr 


perianal  oitata  iif  the  late 
puliHc!    And  in  April,  i»^  ai 


klni^  Itooda,  &c.* 


U>e  uw  of  II 
act,  add>  Whil 

Mivyme  the  la 


an  eatnardliiaiT  dlmendnn.  IhiuihI  In  crim*i)n 

rcli'et,  and  richly  i^H,  viiltea  in  a  t jir  Lin^  hind. 

bur  w4tb  litUe  kn«rled|(e  of  the  objecta  wliicb 

□TCBton-wrilEr  dewriba.    It  i«  crlilkil "  An 

ntoiy  nl  Ibe  Ciondi,  JcweK  Pkite,  tec,  he- 

ingm  KIBK  Chailn  I.,  gold  by  order  of  ibe 

iH'il  of  Wate,  from  rbe  year  1649  to  1II5J." 

So  that  Onm  tlie  decapitatlou  of  the  kind,  a  year 

Unred  to  draw  np  Ibe  iBvenluTy  1  and  lliu 

Twetded  duiinn  three  yean. 


irieatllcaumiandttbni  the  counril  of 

>tate  RHild  not  ^  the  aum  appTai«d,  tlie  iiold 

BMial^  Bnijilkdi,  tut  piubahly  many 'wen  tlie 
4i;eiili  Tiir  fifreiitn  r.iutta.  The  cihim  or  meiLla 
WLi«  thnmn  ^iniieBoiifly  into  drawers :  iiue 
drawer,  bavins  Iwenly-liniT  meilals  vai  tallied 
at  it.  m. ;  am4her  o[  Ithiiiy  al  i(.  i  awilber  ur 
l«i'iit].-liwr  at  i(.i  and  one  drawer,  ciitainiiK 
rurlwatilTcrcoinawilblheboa.waxiild  t..r|l. 

appniier  was  certainly  an  antiuu^iT?-. 

■snirraHy  klched  ahi.rti  Ibe  prire  lined;  liie  tui^ 
iif  art  enuld  pleaae  Ibe  uuleltLfEd  aiindi  tliat  bad 

The  Traiple  or  J^iaekm,  nude  of  elmnv  and 
amIiLT,  fetched  iff. 

bcially  iiiaiie  to  piBy  uf  llicif,  M.ld  hir  jo/. 

lalald  wllh  gnld,  ilher,  and  pearl%  ijj. 
A  coiguiing  dmm  from  Iraplaud,  wiih  an  rftmj' 

full  of  ipikea,  and  Ibe  Lindle  cr>i:ri.d  with  tr^il 
_!.. . 't1,  johl  Sir  J)(.  lU. 

Kold,  ebawd  willi  the  m^niiiT 


vlnuudlheilmwilbriiblesi'i 
;nK  pl.rtun»,  tak.-n  Hum  w 


CHARLES  TRE  FIRSTS  LOVE  OF  THE  FINE  ARTS. 


by  Riphid.    There 


,re  ta-  Julio 


in,  tt'  t 

loarlh.  Rubcu*'  "  Wonun  tikm  in  Adulteiy; 
described  u  a  tir^  (hcliirr,  nUL  (of  kW,  ;  and  bi 
"  Pucv  and  Pknty,  with  many  figures  big  u  the 

of  Ihe   Apoillei,"   notwi 
appraised  at  iool.,  could  r 


Vandyke,  wai  putcha9ed  by  Sir  Balthafar  OeTbJer, 
at  Ihe  appraiwd  price  of  ml. 

The  greatcH  luim  were  pnidueed  br  Ihe  lapdRy 
and  arm  hanging,  vbicb  were  chiehy  purchaictl 
for  rhe  fen'ice  uf  rhe  fnAevtm.  Their  anunini 
eicccd)  ja.eosl.     t  note  a  lew. 

of  Abrjh.m,  conuiilinK  £16  yardiat  rtJ.'ayar^ 


rDidertd  wiih  gold,  having  the  an 


pearb,  valued  at  ^oel^  1 


t.  shortly  after  "the 


liiere  ia  one  citvmMance  remukatile  in  the 

sinn  without  ofientiUiaii  or  noviimj  for  Although 
Ihii  monarch  wu  inclined  himaeif  10  participale 

handled  the  pencil  and  cotnEHKd  a  poern,  jef  he 

over  hb  mun  majotic  dutlei.  We  do  not  dis- 
(oer  in  hinoiy  that  Charles  I.  wai  a  painter  and 
a  poet.  Aceident  and  lecret  hirtoiy  only  reveal 
thuioiteninH  feature  In  his  grave  and  kingOike 
character.    Charles  aought  no  glury  from,  but  only 

are  three  mannncripa  on  bis  art,  by  Leonaado  da 
Vinci,  in  the  AmbroaiAn  bbrary,  which  beat  an 
inscrip^n  thai  a  King  of  England,  iu  l6]9.oHered 
one  I  houiand  guineas  of  gold  Cor  each.  Charles, 
too,  suggested  to  the  two  great  painters  of  his  age 
theiuhiecaheconridered  worthy  of  their  pencils; 


ipoHng  a  poem,  ciktlUed,  In  the  ixi^'  itj'le  of 


1ii£",. 


Ihe  King  of  Kinp  i"  a  liili  pn>- 
e  Dwst  lender  and 

although  in  the  unpractised  pnel  we  may  want 


Ihe  r 


in  of  pin 


With  my  ovrrt  power  my  mM4t>'  the^  wound 

So  dotb  the  dust  destro)*  the  diarnond." 
After    a    palhetie    defcriplion    of    his    quee 
"  forced   in   (nlgTimage  to  seek  a  tomb.*'   ai 
"  Great  Britain's  heir  forced  inID  France,"  whel 

Chatles  continues ; 

'*They  promise  10  erect  my  royal  stem ; 
To  make  me  great,  to  advance  my  diadem  ; 

Bui  Cor  refusal  they  de^'our  my  thrones, 
DisR^  my  children,  and  destroy  my  bones  ; 
I  fear  they'll  forcvme  id  nuke  bread  of  stones 

•  Some  may  be  curious  to  learn  Ihe  price 
gold  and  silver   about   1650.     II  appears  by  It 

per  OE,  ar^d  gold  al  3/.  loj. ;  so  that  the  value 


I 


THE  SECRET  HTSTORT  OF  CHARLES  /. 


301 


And  implores,  with  a  martyr's  piety,  the  Saviour's 
fcMTgivencM  for  those  who  were  ixkhv  mbled  tlun 
criminal: — 

**  Such  as  tbon  know'rt  do  not  know  what  they  do."* 

As  a  poet  and  a  painter,  Charles  b  not  popu> 
lariy  known  ;  but  this  article  was  due,  to  preserve 
the  memory  of  the  royal  votary's  ardour  and  pure 
feelings  for  the  love  of  the  Fmc  Arts.t 


THE    SECRET  HISTORY  OP  CHARLES  I. 
AND  HIS  QUEEN  HENRIETTA. 

Thc  secret  history'  of  Charles  I.,  and  hu  queen 
Henrietta  of  France,  opens  a  different  scene  from 
thc  one  exhibited  in  tlie  pasuonatc  drama  of  our 
htstcry. 

The  king  is  accused  of  the  most  miritless  uxori* 
oosness ;  and  the  chaste  fondness  of^  a  husband  is 
placed  among  his  political  errors.  Even  Hume 
conceives  that  hb  queen  **  precipitated  him  into 
hasty  and  imprudent  counsels,"  and  Bishop  Ken- 
net  had  alluded  to  **  the  influence  of  a  stately* 
queen  over  an  affectionate  husband."  Tlie  uxon- 
ousness  of  Charles  b  re-echoed  by  all  the  writers 
tA  a  certain  p>tU'.  Tills  b  an  odium  which  the 
king's  enemies  nrst  threw  out  to  make  him  con- 
temptible ;  while  hb  apologbts  imagined  that,  in 
perpetuating  thb  accusation,  they  had  discovered, 
in  a  weakness  which  has  at  least  something  ami- 
able, some  palliation  for  hb  own  political  mis- 
conduct. Tne  factiotM,  too,  by  thb  aspersion, 
promoted  the  alarm  they  spread  in  the  nation,  of 
the  king's  inclination  to  poperv ;  yet,  on  the  con- 
trary, Charles  was  then  making  a  determined 
■tacul,  and  at  length  triumphed  over  a  Catholic 
faction,  which  was  rtiling  hb  queen  ;  and  this  at 
the  risk  and  menace  of  a  war  with  France.  Yet 
thb  firmness  too  has  been  denied  him,  c%'cn  by 
hb  apologist  Hume  :  that  hbtorian  on  his  preccn- 
ceived  system  ima^ned,  that  every  action  of 
Charles  \.  originated  m  the  Duke  of  Buckingham, 
and  that  the  duke  pursucti  his  personal  quarrel 
with  Richelieu,  and  taking  advantage  of  these 

*  Thb  poem  is  omitted  in  the  great  edition  of 
the  king's  works,  published  after  the  Restoration  ; 
and  was  given  by  Burnet  from  a  manuscript  in  his 
"  Memoirs  of  the  Dukes  of  Hamilton  ;"  but  it  had 
been  previously  published  in  Pcrrenchief's  "  Life 
of  Charles  I." 

t  Thb  article  was  composed  without  any  recol- 
lection that  a  part  of  the  subject  had  been  antici- 
pated by  Lord  Orfcrd.  In  thc  "  Anecdotes  of 
Painting  in  England,"  many  curious  particulars 
are  noticed  .-  the  story  of  the  king's  diamond  seal 
had  reached  hb  lordship,  and  Vertue  had  a  muti- 
lated transcript  of  the  inventory  of  the  king's  pic- 
tares,  &c.,  discovered  in  Mooffields ;  for,  among 
otben,  more  than  thirty  pages  at  the  beginning, 
relating  to  the  plate  and  jewch,  were  missing. 
The  manuscript  in  the  Harleian  Collection  is  per- 
fect. Lord  Orford  has  also  given  an  interesting 
anecdote  to  show  the  king^s  discernment  in  the 
knowledge  of  the  hands  of  the  painters,  which 
confirms  the  little  anecdote  I  have  related  from 
theFarran. 


domestic  quarrels,  had  persuaded  Charles  to  dis- 
mbs  the  French  attendants  of  thc  queen.* 

There  are,  fortunately,  two  lctter>  from  Charles  I. 
to  Buckingham,  preserxed  in  thc  state-papers  of 
Lord  Hardwicke,  which  set  this  (mint  to  rest; 
these  decisively  prove  that  the  whole  matter  origi- 
nated with  the  king  himself,  and  that  Buckingham 
had  tried  every  effort  to  persuade  him  to  the  con- 
trary ;  for  the  king  complains,  that  he  had  been 
too  long  overcome  by  hit  persuasions,  l)ut  that  he 
was  now  *'  resolved  it  must  be  done,  and  that 
shortly !"  t 

It  is  remarkable,  that  the  character  of  a  queen, 
who  is  imagined  to  have  performed  so  active  a 
part  in  our  history,  scarcely  ever  appears  in  it ; 
when  abroad,  and  when  she  returned  to  England, 
in  thc  midst  of  a  winter  storm,  bringing  all  the 
aid  she  could  to  her  unfortunate  consort,  those  who 
witnessed  this  appearance  of  energy  imagined  that 
her  character  was  ctjually  powerful  in  the  cabinet. 
Yet  Henrietta,  after  all,  was  nothing  more  than  a 
volatile  woman;  one  who  had  never  studied, 
never  reflected,  and  whom  nature  had  formed  to 
be  charming  and  haughty,  but  whose  vivacity 
could  not  retain  even  a  state  secret  for  an  hour, 
and  whoMT  talents  were  quite  opp()Mte  to  those  of 
deep  political  intrigue. 

Henrietta  \iewed  even  the  characters  of  great 
men  with  all  thc  scn^tions  of  a  woman.  Devrib- 
ing  the  Karl  of  Stratford  to  a  contidcntial  friend, 
and  having  ol)M:rved  that  he  w:is  a  great  man,  she 
dwelt  with  far  more  interest  on  his  person : 
"Though  not  handsome,"  said  she,  "he  was 
agreeable  enough,  and  he  had  the  finest  hands 
of  any  man  m  the  world."  Landing  at  Bur- 
lington-bay m  Yorkshire,  she  lodged  on  thc  quay  ; 
the  parliament's  admiral  barbarously  p<Mnted  his 
cannon  at  the  hou^e ;  and  sever.il  shot  reaching  it, 
her  favourite,  Jerm) n,  requested  her  to  fly;  she 
safely  reached  a  cavern  in  thc  fields,  hut,  recol- 
lecting that  she  had  left  a  lap-dog  aMeep  in  its 
bed,  she  flew  back,  and,  amidst  the  cannon-shot, 
returned  with  this  other  favourite.  The  «]ucen 
related  this  incident  of  the  lap-dog  to  her  Iritnd 
Madame  Motteville  :  these  ladies  considered  it  as 
a  complete  woman's  victory.  It  is  in  these 
memoirs  we  find,  tuat  when  Charles  went  down 
to  the  house,  to  seize  on  the  five  leading  meml>er« 
of  thc  opposition,  the  queen  could  not  retain  her 
lively  temper,  and  impatiently  babbled  the  plot ; 
so  that  one  of  the  ladies  in  attendance  despatched 
a  hasty  note  to  the  parties,  who,  as  the  king 
entered  thc  house,  had  just  time  to  leave  it. 
Some  have  dated  thc  ruin  of  his  cause  to  thc 
failure  of  that  impolitic  step,  which  alarmed  every 
one  zealous  for  that  spirit  of  political  freedom 
which  had  now  grown  up  in  the  commons.  Inci- 
dents like  these  mark  the  feminine  dispositions  of 
Henrietta.  But  when  at  sea,  in  danger  of  being 
taken  by  a  parliamentarian,  the  queen  commanded 
the  captain  not  to  strike,  but  to  prepare  at  the 
extremity  to  blow  up  the  ship,  resisting  the 
shrieks  of  her  females  and  domestiC5 ;  we  perceive 
how,  on  every  trying  occasion,  Henrietta  never 
forgot  that  she  was  the  daughter  of  Henry  IV. ; 
that  glorious  affinity  was  inherited  by  her  with  all 

*  Hume,  rol.  VI.  p.  334. 

t  Lord  Hardwickc's  State-papers,  II.  a,  3. 


S32 


THE  SECRET  HISTORY  OF  CHARLES  A 


the  Kzual  pndc ;  and  hence,  at  time^,  that  energy 
in  her  actiom  which  was  so  far  above  her  intel- 
Icctu.il  capacity. 

And,  indeed',  when  the  awful  ex-cnts  she  had 
witneMcd  were  one  by  one  registered  in  her  mclan> 

choly  mind,  the  scaMbilityofthe  woman  subdued    ver>- marriage  with  a  Protestant  prince,  the  fol 
the  natural  haughtine«'of  her  character;  but,  I  low'ing  new  facts  relating  to  her  first  aniral  in 


was  quite  in  lore  with  them.  Now  that  we  know 
that  no  female  was  ever  more  deeply  tainted  with 
Catholic  bigotr}' ;  and  that,  haughty  as  she  was, 
this  princess  surtered  the  most  insulting  sapenti- 
tion%  inflicted  as  penances  by  her  priorts,  for  thif 


true  woman!  the  feeling  creature  r,f  circum- 
stances, at  the  Restoration  she  resumed  it,  and 
when  the  new  court  of  Charles  II.  would  not 
endure  her  obsolete  haughtiness,  the  dowager- 
queen  left  it  in  all  the  full  bittemess  of  her  spirit. 
An  habitual  gloom,  and  the  mcagemess  of  grief, 
during  the  commonwealth,  had  changed  a  coun- 
tenance once  the  most  lively,  an«l  her  eyes,  whose 
dark  and  darrling  la^re  wais  ever  celebrated,  then 
only  shone  in  tears.  When  she  told  her  ph\-sician, 
Sir  Theodore  .Mayeme,  that  she  found  her '  under- 
standing was  failing  her,  and  seemed  terrified  lest 
it  was  approaching  to  madnc^'>,  the  court -ph\si- 
cian,  hardly  courtly  to  falkn  majesty,  replied, 
"  Madam,  fear  not  that ;  for  you  are  already  mad." 
Henrietta  had  lived  to  contemplate  the  awful 
changes  of  her  reign,  witliout  comprehending 
them. 

Waller,  in  the  profusion  of  poetical  decoration, 
makes  Henrietta  so  beautiful,  that  her  beauty 
would  atlect  ever>  lover  "  more  than  his  private 
loves."  She  was  **  the  whole  world's  mistress." 
A  portrait  in  crayons  of  Henrietta  at  Hampton- 
court  sadly  reduces  all  his  poetry,  for  the  miracu- 
lous was  onl>  in  the  fancy  of  the  court-poet.  But 
there  may  l>c  some  truth  in  what  he  says  of  the 
eyes  of  Henrietta : 

"  Such  eyes  as  \ours,  on  Jo*'e  himself,  had  thrown 
As  l)rii;lit  and  fierce  a  lightning  as  his  own." 

And  in  another  poem  there  is  one  characteristic 
line : 

" Mjch  radiant  eyes, 

Suih  lovely  motion,  and  such  sharp  replies." 

In  a  MS.  letter  of  the  times,  the  writer  describes 
the  queen  a^  "  nimble  and  <|uiik,  black-cyeil, 
bniwn-haired,  and  a  brave  lad>  ."*  In  the  ms. 
jiuimal  ol  Sir  SymriuU  D'Kwcf,  who  ww  the 
(lueen  on  her  ttr^-t  arrival  in  London,  cold  and 
puritanic  .is  was  th.tt  antiiiiiar) ,  he  notices  uith 
M.me  warmth  "  the  featurts  oi  her  face  which 
were  much  enlivened  by  her  radiant  and  sparkling 
blaik  eye.'"t  She  appear*  to  have  po«>sesM:d  French 
%ivaiity  l)oth  in  her  manners  and  her  conversa- 
tion :  in  the  history  of  a  queen,  an  accurate  con- 
ception of  her  perx'U  enter*  Inr  M)U)ething. 

Her  talents  were  not  of  that  order  which  could 
influence  the  revolutions  of  a  people.  Her 
natural  (li«-p«»iti()ns  miuht  h.-ive  allowed  her  to 
IxTome  a  ]M^IiticIan  of  tjie  toilette,  an«l  she  might 
ha\e  praetis<.d  those  slighter  arliln't-s,  which  may 
l>e  con-sidered  as  so  many  {>olitical  cotjuetric*. 
But  Macliiavelian  principles,  and  invoUed  in- 
trigues, ol  whi<'h  she  has  been  so  freely  accused, 
could  never  have  entered  into  her  character.  At 
first  she  trieil  all  the  knile  inventions  of  a  woman 
to  persuade  the  king  that  she  was  his  humblest 
creature,  and  the  good  people  of  England  that  she 


Sloane  Mss.  4176, 
Hall.  M>s.  UfO. 


Engbnd,  curioasly  contrast  with  the  moititicd 
feelings  she  must  have  endured  by  the  Tioleat 
suppression  of  her  real  ones. 

We  must  first  bring  forward  a  remarkable  and 
unnoticed  document  in  the  Embassies  of  Manhal 
Bassompierre.*  It  is  nothing  less  than  a  moit 
solemn  obligation  contracted  with  the  Pope  and 
her  brother  the  King  of  France  to  educate  her 
children  as  Catholics,  and  only  to  choo«  CatboUc* 
to  attend  them.  Had  this  been  known  either  to 
Charles,  or  to  the  English  nation,  Henrietta  could 
never  have  been  permitted  to  ascend  the  Bnclisli 
throne.  Tlie  fate  of  both  her  sons  show*  how 
faithfully  she  performed  this  treasonable  contract. 
This  piece  of  secret  histor>'  opens  the  concealed 
cause  of  those  deep  impressions  of  that  faith,  which 
both  monarchs  sucked  in  with  their  milk ;  that 
triumph  of  the  cradle  over  the  grave  which  nnost 
men  experience :  Charles  II.  (tied  a  Catholic, 
James  II.  lived  as  one. 

When  Henrietta  was  on  her  way  to  En^nd,  a 
legate  from  Rome  arrested  her  at  Amiens,  requiring 
the  princess  to  undergo  a  penance,  which  was  to 
last  sixteen  day  s,  U  r  marn  ing  Charles  without 
the  papal  dispensation.  Tnc  queen  stopped  her 
journey,  and  wrote  to  inform  the  king  of  the 
occasion.  Charles,  who  was  then  waiting  for  her 
at  Canterbury,  replied,  that  if  Henrietta  did  not 
instantly  pn)cec<l,  he  wtuld  return  alone  to  L<»n- 
don.  Henrietta  doubilevs  sighed  for  the  Piipc  and 
the  penance,  but  she  set  tiff  the  dav  she  received 
the  king's  letter.  Tlie  king,  cither  Iby  his  wisdom 
or  his  imp.ttience,  detected  the  aim  of  the  Roman 
pontiff,  who,  had  he  l>een  permitted  to  arrest  the 
pT(»gre>s  of  a  Queen  of  England  for  sixteen  days 
in  the  face  of  all  Europe,  would  thus  bare 
obtained  a  tacit  supremacy  over  a  British  mo- 
narch. 

When  the  king  arrived  at  Canterbury,  although 
not  at  the  moment  prepared  to  re*cei»-e  him, 
Henrietta  flew  to  meet  him,  and  with  all  her 
spontaneous  graie  and  native  vivacity,  kneeling 
at  his  feet,  she  kissed  his  hand,  while  the  king, 
Ixrnding  over  her,  wrapt  ber  in  his  arms,  and 
kissed  her  with  many  kisses.  Tliis  royal  snd 
youthful  pair,  unusual  with  those  of  tbnr  rank, 
met  with  the  eagerness  of  lovers,  and  the  tir« 
words  of  Henrietta  were  those  of  devotion  ;  Sne ' 
Je  fuis  i-enue  en  ct  fiait  d*  i»he  Majeste  pour  itrt 
usee  el  commandee  de  foui.t  It  had  been  runKiiircd 
that  she  was  of  a  %-ery  short  stature,  but,  reaching 
to  the  king's  shoulder,  his  eyes  were  cast  down  to 
her  feet,  seemingly  observing  whether  she  used  art 
to  increase  her  height.  Anticipating  his  thcughts, 
and  playfully  showing  her  leet,  she  dcclarctl,  that 
"  she  stood  upon  her  own  feet,  for  thus  high  1  am, 
and  neither  higher  nor  lower."    After  an  hour's 


*  Amb:t9sadcs  du  Marecbal  de  Bassompierrr, «x>l. 
III.  49. 

t  A  letter  from  Dr.  Meddus  to  Mr,  Mead  17, 
;an.  1625.  4x77,  Bloanc  Mts. 


i.-v  -- 


■»r=rr 


"»■*■ 


I 


AND  HIS  QUEEN  HENRIETTA. 


303 


ccmrmation  in  privacy.  Henrietta  took  her  dinm  r 
sorroundcd  by  the  cciiit ;  and  the  king,  who  had 
already  dined,  perfbrminj;  the  office  of  her  car- 
eer, cue  a  pheasant  and  some  venison.  By  the 
■de  of  the  queen  stood  her  ghostly  contessor, 
solemnly  reminding;  her  that  this  was  the  ere  of 
John  the  Baptt^,  and  was  to  be  fasted,  exhorting 
ber  to  be  cautious  that  she  set  no  •can'laloun 
example  on  her  tint  arrival.  But  Charlta  and  las 
cnurt  were  now  to  be  gained  over,  as  well  as  John 
the  Baprtist.  She  afiiectcd  to  eat  very  heartily  of 
the  forbidden  meat,  which  ga\-e  great  comfort,  it 
•eems,  to  sererjl  of  her  new  heretical  subjects 
then  present:  but  we  may  conceive  the  pangs  of 
so  canfirmed  a  devotee !  She  carried  her  disBtmn- 
lalion  so  fir,  that  being  axked  about  this  time 
whether  she  could  abide  a  Huguenot  ?  she  replied, 
••Why  not?  Was  not  my  father  one?"  Her 
ready  smiles,  the  graceful  wave  of  her  hand,  the 
many  *'  good  signs  of  hope,"  as  a  contemporary 
in  a  manuscript  letter  expresses  it,  induced  many 
of  the  English  to  believe  that  Henrietta  mif^t 
even  become  one  of  them^lves  I  Sir  Ssrmonds 
D'Ewes,  as  appears  by  his  manuscript  diary, 
was  rtruck  by  **her  deportment  to  her  women, 
and  her  looks  to  her  servants,  which  were  so  sweet 
and  humble!"*  Howe%-er,  thu  was  in  the  first 
days  of  her  arrival,  and  these  **  sweet  and  humble 
looks "  were  not  constant  ones ;  for  a  courier  at 
Whitehall,  writmjg  to  a  friend,  observes,  that  "  the 
queen,  however  httle  of  stature,  yet  is  of  a  pleasing 
countenance,  if  she  be  pleased,  otherwise  full  of 
spirit  and  vigour,  and  seems  of  more  than  ordinary 
rcvtlution;"  and  he  adds  an  incident  of  one  of 
her  •*  frowns."  Tlie  room  in  which  the  queen 
wjs  at  dinner  being  somewhat  overheated  with 
the  tire  and  company,  "  she  drove  us  all  out  of 
the  chamber.  I  suppose  none  but  a  queen  could 
have  cast  such  a  scowl."  t  W^e  may  already  detect 
the  fdir  waxen  mask  melting  away  on  the  features 
it  covered,  even  in  one  short  month  1 

By  the  marriage-contract,  Henrietta  was  to  be 
allowed  a  household  establishment,  composed  of 
her  own  people ;  and  this  had  been  contrived  to 
he  not  lesA  than  a  small  French  colony,  exceeding 
three  hundred  persons.  It  composed,  in  fact,  a 
French  faction,  and  looks  like  a  covert  project  of 
Ri(.hclieu's  to  further  his  intrijy^ucshere,  by  opening 
a  perpetual  correspondence  with  the  discontented 
Catholics  of  England.  In  the  instructions  of  Bas- 
tompicrre,  one  of  the  alleged  objects  of  the  mar- 
riage is  the  general  ^ood  of  the  Catholic  religion, 
by  affording  some  relief  to  those  English  who  pro- 
fessed it.  If,  however,  that  great  statesman  ever 
entertained  this  political  design,  the  simplicity  and 
pride  of  the  Roman  priests  here  completely  over- 
turned it;  for  in  their  blind  zeal  they  dared  to 
extend  their  domestic  tyranny  over  majesty  itself. 

*  Sir  S.  D'Ewcs's  Journal  of  his  life,  Harl.  ma.  646. 
We  have  seen  our  puritanic  antiquary  describing 
the  person  of  the  queen  with  some  warmth ;  but 
*'  he  could  not  abstain  from  deep-fetched  sighs,  to 
conndcr  that  she  wanted  the  knowledge  of  true 
religion,"  a  circumstance  that  Henrietta  would 
hare  ja  zealously  regretted  for  Sir  Symonds  him- 
self! 

t  A  letter  to  Mr,  Mead,  July  1,  ifi||,  81oanc 
MS5,  4176. 


mif^^^ 


The  French  party  had  not  long  resided  here  ere 
the  mutual  jealousies  between  the  two  nations 
broke  out.  All  the  English  who  were  not  Catho- 
lics were  soon  dumissed  from  their  attendance 
on  the  queen  by  herself;  w^hile  Charles  was  com- 
pelled, by  the  popular  ct\',  Io  forbid  any  English 
Catholics  to  serve  the  queen,  or  to  be  present  at 
the  eel.  bration  of  her  man.  The  king  was  even 
obliged  to  employ  poursuivants  or  kind's  mes«en- 
gcfs,  to  stand  at  the  door  of  her  chapel  to  sci/e  r>u 
any  of  the  English  who  entered  there,  while  on 
these  occasions  the  French  would  draw  their 
swords  to  defend  these  concealed  Catholic<i.  "  The 
oueen  and  hers"  became  an  odious  distinction  in 
tne  nation.  Such  were  the  indecent  scenes  exhi- 
bited in  public ;  they  were  not  less  rescr\-e(l  in 
private.  Tlie  following  anecflote  of  saying  a  grace 
before  the  king,  at  his  own  table,  in  a  most  in- 
decorous race  run  between  the  I'.tthnlic  priest  and 
the  kin^s  chaplain,  is  given  in  a  manu<K:ript  letter 
of  the  times : — 

'•  The  king  and  queen  dining  together  in  the 
presence.*  Mr.  Hackct  (chaplain  to  the  l.cinl 
Keeper  Williams  t)  being  then  to  viy  gr.icc,  the 
confessor  would  have  prevented  him,  but  tli;it 
Hacket  shoved  him  away ;  whereupon  the  con- 
fessor went  to  the  queen's  side,  and  was  al>out  to 
say  grace  again,  but  that  the  king  pulling  the 
dishes  unto  him,  and  the  carvers  falling  to  their 
business,  hindered.  When  dinner  wat  done,  the 
confessor  thought,  standing  by  the  queen,  to  have 
been  before  Mr.  Hackct,  but  Mr.  Hacket  again 
got  the  start.  The  conlevsor,  nevertheless,  begins 
Bis  grace  as  loud  as  Mr.  Hacket,  with  such  a  con- 
fusion, that  the  king  in  great  passion  instantly 
rose  fn)m  the  table,  and,  taking  the  queen  by  the 
hand,  retired  into  the  lH:<lchaml>er."t  It  is  with 
dilficiilty  we  conceive  how  such  a  vcnc  of  priestly 
indiscretion  should  have  t)een  sutlered  at  the  table 
of  an  English  sovereign. 

Such  are  the  domestic  accounts  I  have  gleaned 
from  MS.  letters  of  the  times ;  but  p.irticulars  of 
a  deeper  nature  may  be  divovercjl  in  the  answer 
of  the  king's  council  to  Man^bal  Basv)mpierre, 
prescr\-ed  in  the  history  of  his  embassy :  this 
marshal  had  been  hastily  despatched  as  an  ex- 
traordinary ambassador  when  the  l-ren»h  party 
were  dismissed.  Thii  state-document,  rather  .1 
remoastrance  than  a  reply,  states  that  the  French 
household  had  formed  -1  little  rcpuMir  within 
themselves,  combining  with  the  Frciu  h  rcni«lrnt 
ambasMidor,  and  inciting  the  opiMmtion  memlK'r» 
in  parliament;  a  practice  usual  with  that  in- 
triguing court,  even  from  the  days  of  Kli/alK."th, 
as  the  original  letters  of  the  French  ambass.nhir 
of  the  time,  which  will  be  found  in  the  present 

*  At  Hampton  Court  there  is  a  curious  ]»icture 
of  Charles  and  Henrietta  dining  in  the  presence. 
This  regal  honour,  after  its  interruption  ilurin^  the 
Ci%il  Wars,  was  revived  in  1667  by  Charles  II.,  .is 
appears  by  Ei-clyn's  Diar>-.  "  Now  did  his  maiestv 
again  dtnt  in  the  prcseme,  in  ancient  style,  with 
music  and  all  the  court  ceremonies." 

t  The  author  of  the  Lite  of  this  Archbishop  and 
Lord  Keeper ;  a  voluminous  folio,  but  full  ot  curi- 
ous matter,    Ambro^  Philips  the  |»oct  abridged  it. 

I  A  letter  from  Mr.  Mead  to  8»r  Martin  St«tc- 
vUic,  October,  \bi%,    4177,  Sl«»*ne  mss. 


I 


)04  THE  SECRET  HISTORT  OF  CHARLES  I. 


pirty  fbouT  Pnnce  Heoiy!  ind  the  CDrTcspond' 
enccDr  BuiUon  in  Charlci  Ihc  Second')  rdgn  ID 
(uUv  TVpOKd  in  hii  entirt  rorrapondcDce  pub- 
lub'ed  by  Pd\.  The  French  doimlin  or  Ihe 
quwn  weit  engiged  in  loatr  inrrigu«;    ihey 


queen    by  their   nusnulic  abaHencej    Inllicling 
the  mail  degrading  peoaiKci,    One  of  tbe  moat 

buefbot  plonmue  to  Tfbiini,  uhere,  one  moTn- 
ing,  under  the  pilows  on  which  »  nuny  JaurH 


ongbyhetinhBCOKhl  Theyhav 


iiul,  if 'ihe  gnal  chimbet  ii  not  'wide  enough, 
Ihcy  might  uv  the  gankn :  ind.  if  Ihe  giTden 


No.  J83.  Thf  uJier  of  .he"  fcnV.  conncil  ioVb 
^ompliinu  of  BuKiinpierre  n  both  copunu  *n 
leUlled  in  Vol.  m.  p.  166,  of  the  "  AmbiBidel ' 


^ere   breeding   pei^etudi    quarrel*  amonK  them- 
:ifci,  grrw  vcu^-  of  England,  Ind  wished  Ibem- 


tTDUblc  10  nuke  them  Agree  than  I  shall  finJ  lo 

The    French   bi«hop   wu   under   the   age  nf 
thiny,  and  hii  aulhority  wm  imapned  to   have 

iT"  "n  'lE^^Ml^w^o?  u^rdT "v-hTh  w« 
raging;  one  of  whom,  Madame  SI.  George,  wat 

the  Engtiih.  Yel  nich  was  Enj^Liib  gAllanlry, 
that  Ihe  king  pcnenled  ih»  Udy  on  her  dinmiv 
HOD  with  leveral  thomand  pounili  and  jeweLa. 
There  was  mmelhing  imonccivahlr  hidLeious  in 
the  noQou  oT  the  En^^li^.  of  a  btJiop  hatdiy  of 

lubly  tamiihed  tij  French  gesture  ind  viracilv, 
limes  stales  thii  it  cml  thv  king  not-  a  day,  and 


which  Ihe  king  dragged  her,  and  conlibed  her 

The  sceix  which  took  pLace  among  the  French 

dclenni  nation,  was  remarkabiy  indecorous.    I'hcy 
inscantly  flew  to  lake  possesion  of  alL  Ihe  queens 

appcan^a  dungeof  linen,  since  it  wat  with  dil- 
liculty  she  procured  one  ai  a  favonr,  according 


.s,  Jg). 


f 


AND  HIS  QUEEN  HENRIETTA. 


30s 


tticir  extraordinary  expedients  was  that  of  in- 

Testing  bills,  for  which  the>'  pretended  they  had 

engaqged  themselves  on  acronnt  of  the  qncen,  to 

die  amoant  of  10,000/.,  which  the  queen  at  fint 

owned  to,  bnt  afterward  acknowledged  the  debts 

▼ere  lictitious  ones.    Among  these  items  was  one 

(tf  400I.  for  necessaries  for  her  majesty ;  an  apo- 

tlKcarr's  bill  for  drugs  of  800/. ;  and  another  of 

ISO/,  lor  **  the  bishop's  unholy  water/*   as  the 

writer  expresses  it.    The  young  French  bishop 

attempted  by  all  sorts  of  dela>-s  to  aroid  this  ig- 

oominmns  expulson ;  till  the  king  was  forced  to 

send  hb  yeomen  of  the  guards  to  turn  them  out 

from  Somerset-house,  wnere  the  jurenile  French 

bidK»,  at  once  protesting  against  it,  and  mount- 

vai  the  steps  of  the  coach,  took  bis  departure 

''^ad  and  shoulders."    It  appears  that  to  pay 

ttie  debts  and  the  pensions,  besides  sending  the 

Pmcfa  troops  free  home,  cost  50,000/. 

In  a  long  procession  of  nearly  forty  coaches, 
lAer  four  da^-s*  tedious  travelling  they  reached 
Dorer;  but  die  spectacle  of  thesie  impatient  fo- 
reifCDcn  ao  reluctantly  quitting  England,  gesti- 
caUting  their  sorrows  or  their  quarrels,  exposed 
them  to  the  deri^n,  and  stirred  up  the  pre- 
jutljcfs  of  the  common  people.  As  Madame 
Gccrjic,  wh<»e  vivacitj-  »  always  described  ex- 
travagantly French,  was  stepping  into  the  boat, 
me  of  the  mob  could  not  resist  the  satisfaction 
of  flingiog  a  stone  at  her  French  cap ;  an  English 
omrtier,  who  was  conducting  her,  inntantly 
quined  his  charge,  ran  the  fellow  through  the 
bodr,  and  quietly  returned  to  the  boat.  The  man 
(be(f  on  the  spot ;  but  no  farther  notice  appears 
to  have  been  taken  of  the  inconsiderate  gallantry 
of  ttm  English  courtier. 

Bat  Charles  did  not  show  his  kingly  firmness 
onlj  on  this  occasion :   it  did  not  forsake  him 
vbcn  the  French  Marshal   Bassompierre  was  in- 
ttantif  sent  over  to  awe  the  king ;  Charles  sternly 
offered  dve  alternative  of  war,  rather  than  permit 
a  French  faction  to  trouble  an   English    court. 
Bassompierre  makes  a  curious  observation  in  a 
letter  to  the  French   Bishop  of  Mende,  he  who 
had  been  just  sent  away  from    Bneland ;    and 
which  sen-es  as  the  most  positive  evi&nce  of  the 
firm  refuul  of  Charles  I.     The  French  marshal, 
after  stating  the  totad  failure  of  hb  mission,  ex- 
claims "  See,  sir,  to  what  we  are  reduced  !  and 
im^ne  mv  gnef,  that  the  Queen  of  Great  Britain 
has  the  pain  of  viewing  my  departure  without 
being  of  any  service  to  her;  but  if  you  consider 
that  I  was  sent  here  to  make  a  eonttact  4/*  nuir- 
nage  ohser^'td,  and  to  maintain  the  Catholu  religion 
in  a  country  from  tvhich   they  formerly   banished 
it  to  break  a  contract  of  marriage^  you  will  assist 
ID  excusing  me  of  this  failure."     The  French 
marshal  haa  abo  preserved  the  same  distinctive 
feature  of  the  nation,  as  well  as  of  the  monarch, 
vbo,  surelv  to  his  honour  as  King  of  England, 
felt  and  acted  on  this  occanon  as  a  true  Briton. 
"I  bare  found,"  says  the  Gaul,  **  humility  among 
Spaniards,  civility  and  courtesy  among  the  Swiss, 
in  the  embassies  I  had  the  honour  to  perform  for 
the  king ;   bnt  the  English  would  not  in  the  least 
abate  of  their  natural  pride  and  arrogance.    The 
king  U  so  resolute  not  to  re-establish  any  French 
about  the  queen,  his  consort,  and  was  so  stem 
(rude)  in  speaking  to  me,  that  it  If  impoMible 


to  have  been  more  so.**    In  a  word,  the  French 
marshal,  with  all  hb  vaunts  and  his  threats,  db- 
covered  that  Charles  I.  was  the  true  representa- 
tive of  hb  subjects,  and  that  the  king  had  the 
same  feelines  with  the  people :  this  indeed  was 
not  ahva>-s  the  case.     Thb  transaction  took  place 
in  i6a6,  and  when,  four  yean  afterwards,  it  was 
attempted    a^in    to    introduce    certain    French 
persons,  a  buhop    and    a    physician,  about   the 
queen,  the  king  absolutely  refused  even  a  French 
physician  who  had  come  over  with  the  intention 
of  being  chosen  the  queen's,  under  the  sanction 
of  the  ^ueen  mother.    Thb  little  circumstance 
appears  in  a  manuscript  letter  from   Lord  Dor- 
chester to  Mr.  De  Vic,  one  of  the  king's  agents 
at  Pans.    After  an  account  of  the  arrival  of  this 
French  physician,  his  lordship  proceeds  to  notice 
the  former  determinations  of  the  king  ;  '*  yet  this 
man,"  he  adds,  **  hath   been  addressed  to    the 
ambaisador  to  introduce  him  into  the  court,  and 
the  queen  persuaded  in  deare  and  plaine  terms 
to  speak  to  the  king  to  admit  him  as  domestique. 
Hb  majesty  expre«ed  hb  dislike  of  this  proceed- 
ing, but  contented  himself  to  let  the  ambassador 
know  that  thb  doctor  may  return  as  he  is  come, 
with  intimation  that  he  should  do  it  speedily  ;  the 
French  ambassador,  willing  to  help  the  inatter, 
spake  to  the  king  that  the  said  doctor  mi^ht  be 
admitted  to  kiss  the  queen's  hand,  and  to  came 
the  news  into  France  of  her  safe  delivery  :    which 
the  king  excused  bv  a  ci%-il  answer,  ancf  has  since 
commanded  me  to  let  the  ambassador  understand , 
that  he  had  heard  him  as  Monsieur  de  Fontenay 
in  this  particular,  but,  if  he  should  pertin  an^ 
press  him  as  ambassador,  he  should  be  forced  to 
say  that  which  would  displease  him."     Lord  Dor- 
chester adds,  that  he  informs  Mr.  de  Vic  of  these 
particulars,  that  he  should  not  want  for  the  infor- 
mation should  the  matter    be    revived    by   the 
French  court,  otherwise  he  need  not  notice  it.^ 

By  this  narrative  of  secret  historv  Charles  I. 
does  not  appear  so  weak  a  slave  to  tiis  queen  as 
our  writers  echo  from  each  other ;  and  those  who 
make  Henrietta  so  important  a  penonage  in  the 
cabinet  appear  to  have  been  imperfectly  ac- 
quainted with  her  real  talents.  Charles,  indeed, 
was  deeply  enamoured  of  the  queen,  for  he  was 
inclined  to  strong  personal  attachments :  and 
'*  the  temperance  of  his  youth,  by  which  he  had 
lived  so  free  from  personal  vice,"  as  May  the  par- 
hamcntary  historian  expresses  it,  even  the  gay  levity 
of  Buckingham  seems  never,  in  approacliin^  the 
king,  to  have  violated.  Charles  admired  in  Henri- 
etta all  those  personal  graces  which  he  himself 
wanted;  her  vivacity  in  conversation  enlivened 
his  own  seriousness,  and  her  gay  volubility  the 
defective  utterance  of  his  own  ;  while  the  versati- 
lity of  her  manners  relieved  his  own  formal  habits. 
Doubtless  the  queen  exerciitcd  the  same  power 
over  this  monarch  which  vivacious  females  arc 
privileged  by  nature  to  possess  over  their  husbands; 
she  was  often  listened  to,  and  her  suggestions  were 
sometimes  approved  ;  but  the  fixed  and  sy«(tematic 
principles  of^  the  character  and  the  government  of 
thb  monarch  must  not  be  imputed  to  the  in- 
trigues of  a  mere  lively  and  volatile  woman ;  we 

*  A  letter  from  the  Earl  of  Dorchester,  i^  May, 
1630.    Harl.  MSS.  7000  (160;. 


^  ■  .  -^Kiai 


306 


THE  MTNISTER— CARDINAL  RICHELIEV, 


must  trace  them  to  a  higher  source  ;  to  hit  own 
inherited  conceptions  of  the  regal  rights,  if  we 
would  seek  for  truth,  and  read  the  history  of 
human  nature  in  the  history  of  Charles  I. 


THE  MINISTER— THE  CARDINAL  DUKE 
OF  RICHEUEU. 

Richelieu  w^as  the  greatest  of  statesmen,  if  he 
who  maintains  himself  by  the  greatest  power  is 
necessarily  the  greatest  ntmlster.  He  was  called 
"  the  Kin^  of  the  King."  After  having  long  tor- 
mented himself  and  France,  he  left  a  great  name 
and  a  great  empire — both  alike  the  victims  of 
splendid  ambition !  Neither  this  great  minister, 
nor  this  great  nation,  txsted  of  happiness  under  his 
mighty  administration.  He  had,  indeed,  a  heart- 
Icssness  in  his  conduct  which  obstnictcfl  by  no 
rclentings  those  remorseless  decisions  which  maile 
him  terrible.  But,  while  he  trod  down  the  princes 
of  the  blood  and  the  nobles,  and  drove  his  patroness 
the  queen-mother  into  a  miserable  exile,  and 
contrived  that  the  king  should  fear  and  hate  his 
brother,  and  all  the  cardinal-duke  chose,  Richelieu 
was  grinding  the  face  of  the  poor  by  exorbitant 
taxation,  and  converted  e*'ery  town  in  France  into 
a  garrison  ;  it  was  said  of  him,  that  he  never  liked 
to  be  in  any  place  where  he  was  not  the  strongest. 
"The  commisiioncn  of  the  exchequer  antl  the 
commanders  of  the  anny  believe  themselves  calU-d 
to  a  golden  harvest ;  and  in  the  interim  the  cardi- 
nal is  charged  with  the  mus  of  all  the  world,  and  is 
even  afraid  of  his  life."  Thus  Grotius  5pcak%  in 
one  of  his  letters,  of  the  mi.serable  situation  of  this 
great  minister,  in  his  account  of  the  court  of 
France  in  1635,  when  he  rcMiled  there  as  Swedish 
ambassador.  Yet  such  is  the  delusion  of  these 
great  politicians,  who  consider  what  they  term 
slate-intertiif  as  paramount  to  all  other  duties, 
human  or  divine,  that  while  their  whole  life  is  a 
series  of  oppression,  of  troubles,  of  deceit,  and  of 
cruelty,  their  state-conseunce  finds  nothing  to  re- 
proach itself  with.  Of  any  other  conscience  it 
seems  absolutely  necessary  that  they  should  be 
divested.  Richelieu,  on  his  death-bed,  made  a 
solemn  pmtestation,  appealing  to  the  last  Judge  of 
man,  who  was  about  to  pn)nounce  his  sentence, 
that  he  never  proposed  anything  but  for  the  good 
of  religion  and  the  state ;  that  is,  the  Catholic 
religion  and  his  own  administration.  When  Louis 
XIII.,  who  visited  him  in  his  last  moments,  t(K)k 
from  the  hind  of  an  attendant  a  plate  with  two 
yolks  of  cegs,  that  the  King  of  Fr.inf-e  mi^ht  him- 
self serve  his  expiring  minister,  Richelieu  died  in 
ail  the  self-delu-i"n  of  a  great  minister. 

The  sinister  ni.;ins  he  practised, and  the  )>olitical 
deceptions  he  C(  utrivcd,  do  not  >icld  in  subtilty 
to  the  dark  gramk'ur  of  his  ministerial  character. 
It  ap|>ears  that,  at  a  critical  moment,  when  he  felt 
the  king's  favour  was  wavering,  he  secretly  ordered 
a  battle  to  be  lost  by  the  French,  to  determine  the 
king  at  once  not  to  give  up  a  minister  who,  he 
knew,  was  the  ouly  man  who  could  extricate  him 
out  of  this  new  difficulty.  In  our  great  civil  war, 
this  minister  pretended  to  Charles  I.  that  he  was 
attempting  to  win  the  parliament  over  to  him, 
while  he  wa»  backing  their  most  secret  projects 


!  against  Charles.    When  a  French  mmbasudor  ad- 
dressed the  parliament  as  an  independent  power, 
after  the  king  had  broken  with  it,  Charles,  seuibtf 
affected,  remonstrated  with  the  French  conn ;  the 
minister    disavowed  the  whole  proceedh^  and 
instantly  recalled  the  ambassador,  wtule  at  the 
very  moment  his  secret  agents  were  to  their  bat 
embroiling  the  affairs  of  both  parties.*  The  object 
of  Richelieu  was  to  weaken  the  English  monarchj,  1 
90  as  to  busy  itself  at  home,  and  prevent  its  fleos 
and  its  anriies  thwarting  his  projects  on  the  coo- 
tinent,  lest  England,  jealous  of  the  greatness  of 
France,  should  declare  itself  for  Spain  toe  nK»ncBt 
it  had  recovered  its  own  tranquillity-.    This  is  a 
stratagem  too  ordinar>'  with  great  ministers,  those 
plagues  of  the  earth,  who,  with  their  state-reasons, 
are  for  cutting  as  many  throats  as   God  pksMS 
among  every  other  nation.t 

A  fragment  of  the  secret  history  of  thb  great 
minister  may  l)e  gathered  from  that  of  some  of  bis 
confidential  agents.  One  exposes  an  invention  of 
this  ministers  to  shorten  his  cabinet  Uboun,  and 
to  ha%-e  at  hand  a  screen,  when  that  useful  contriv- 
ance was  requisite  ;  the  other,  the  terrific  effects 
of  an  agent  setting  up  to  be  a  politician  on  hb 
own  account,  against  that  of  his  master's. 

Richelieu's  confessor  was  one  F:ither  Joseph; 
but  this  man  was  designed  to  be  employed  rather 
in  state-atiairs,  than  in  those  which  concerned  his 
conscience.  This  minister,  who  was  ne\  er  a  peni- 
tent, could  have  none.  Father  Joseph  lijJ  a  tun 
for  |Kilitical  negotiation,  otherwise  he  had  not 
been  the  cardinal's  confessor;  but  this  turn  wascf 
that  sort,  said  the  Nuncio  Spada,  whith  was 
atlapted  to  follow  up  to  the  utmots  the  views  and 
notions  of  the  minister,  rather  th.in  to  draw  the 
cardinal  to  his,  or  to  induce  him  to  change  a  tittle 

*  Clarendon  details  the  political  coquetries  of 
Monsieur  La  Ferte  ;  his  "  notable  familiarity  with 
those  who  governed  most  in  the  two  houses;" 

11.  93. 

t  Hume  seems  to  have  discovered  in  Estrades* 
Memoirs,  the  real  occasion  of  Richelieu's  conduct. 
In  1639  Uie  French  and  Dutch  proposed  dividing 
the  Low-Country  provinces ;  England  was  to  stand 
neuter.  Charles  replied  to  D'Estrades,  that  his 
army  and  fleet  should  instantly  sail  to  prevent 
these  projected  conquests.  From  that  moment 
the  intolerant  ambition  of  Richelieu  swelled  the 
venom  of  his  heart,  and  he  eagerly  seized  on  the 
first  opportunity  of  suppl>ingme  Covenanters  in 
Scotland  with  arms  and  money.  Hume  observes, 
that  Charles  here  expressed  his  mind  with  an  im- 
prudent candour ;  but  it  pn)ves  he  had  acquired  a 
just  idea  of  national  interest.  VI.  337.  See  on 
this  a  very  curiou:*  passage  in  the  C.itholic  Dodd's 
Church  History,  III.  23.  He  apoloj^ixes  for  his 
cardinal  by  asserting  that  the  same  line  of  policy 
was  pursued  here  in  England  "  by  Charles  I.  him- 
self, who  sent  fleets  and  armies  to  assist  the  Hugo- 
nots,  or  French  rebels,  as  he  calls  them  ;  and  that 
this  was  the  constant  practice  of  Queen  Elizabetli's 
ministry,  to  foment  diflerences  in  several  neigh- 
iKiuring  kingdoms,  and  support  their  rebellious 
subjects,  as  the  forces  she  employed  for  that  pur- 
pose both  in  France,  Flanders,  and  Scotland,  are  an 
undeniable  pro<»f."  The  recriminations  of  politi- 
cians are  the  confessions  of  great  sinners. 


THE  MISlSTKR-CARDtNAL  RICIIELTKU. 


of  hii  dnigns.  The  tnilh  la,  thil  pilhcr  Jmrph 
pn'b'nnl  gDlng  nlxiiit  in  hit  (hirtot  on  minMciUl 

malcly  U4|iulnn:ii  vilh  the  plim  iml  the  wiQ  at 

piiKb,  to  art  witfaont  order* ;  And  forel^d  iSiiin 
were  pvlicQlirlv  conngncd  In  hi>  TnanigcinRit. 
ClTDIiDt,  t/htu  BwedJih  AinT>aMidar,  kbciitf  them 
both.  FitbcT  Joiepb,  be  lelb  us^  w»  cmplored 
by  Cardliul  Ricbelini  to  open  Dcra^iitiom,  end 
put  tbem  in  i  way  lo  pnccecd  lo  hU  mind,  and 
tbio  the  ordinal  wonld  tti«  in,  and  uBdenake 
the  ftniahing  himaelf.  Jovph  leol:  iHuinoBes  in 
IiuhI  wheD  ther  wcr  ffreen,  and,  ai^er  rlpcoing 


That  thil  wa*  Richelieu's  practice,  appean  (m 
anotliLT  timUaf  pcnoiuge  mcallom-d  by  Giotiu 


Kph,  conclnded  al  Haliibon  a  tiealy  with  tbe 
ticupectedly  di^ppniveJ  of  il,  declanng  (hat  the 


ry  raised  agaiiul  binii  apd 


Bnabgr  ■rraagnl :  ttie  aale  tA»ttt  of  bn  pui 

Itee  KBiimeBit  neariy  «hI  BniUn  hn  bead 
once,  in  quitting  Ibe  cardinal  in  warmth, 


a  £Teat  mlDirter,  of 


t  resolved  to  niin  him,    JoiepI 

and  lo  Hngcer*!  lo  bim.  thai  1 
his  pupil  sbpnid  l>e  admitlei 
acquite  »ine  polilical  know 


turn,  and  to  a^rm  his  maicaly  with  the 
so,  who,  he  ssid.  was  inspiring 


pielended  eonspiracv,  and  Omano  pen^hed  io 
le  Baslile,  al  a  krrr,'  al  least  cau|^t  there.  9o 
luch  for  the  friendship  of  Falher  Imcph  !    And 

secretly  threw  a  feed  of  perpetual  hatre<1  ttctween 
■lie  royal  bnnhers,  piwUieing  consiaraeics,  often 

loiinii  in  hlood,  wliicb  only  his  own  hiughly 

fraony  had  provoked. 
Father  Joseph  died  inretled  by  Rkhclleu  i  he 

Etred  in  secret  hlstotiei.  The  fate  of  Filher 
^ussin,  the  aolhor  of  the  "couts  Salntc,"  a 
4qiular  boak  amona  the  Catholics  for  its  curious 
tli|;U]US  stories,  auqwhose  name  is  belter  known 
han  father  Jascph\  shows  how  this  minister 
ouhl  lid  himserf  of  fathcr-cnnfeawn  who  per- 


iplte  of  the  minister. 


original  anecdotes  of  Habbes,  ftom  us. 


THE  DUKB  OF  BVCKIXGHAif. 


T  iDimafil  it  mlcbt  be,  ilwuUK 
lul  lUngiT,  which   Ibe  inij  b 


"  Hcli^ciuc ;"  ud  thu  CMUiln  ougbl  to  dbpcKC 
tlon.  It  hipiwncd,  bowtrcr,  Ibu  CuwIb  cob- 
of  tbe  people  wu  wd]  koown,  mlgfat  prore  more 
nod  fither  v«  xvrj  tuctire  in  tbe  basincii,  lod 

lo  ■  monvrery,    RicTtchcu  Le»med  that  the  Line 

Thil  *al  not  d'.iiUiin>111  it  vuldroill^/iDliDiu 
thtt  it  wu  prudent  not  mlirupEly  to  oppov 
violence   of  tbe  king'!   puaion,  iwiiich  leer 

over  the  eni^d  ijimn-niotlier,  uid  the  princie 

peoptCi  bi«  PTojecb  of  julLince  vith  tin  T 
H^tuI  Ihe  Cliriitiui  wtcreiifni,  Kcc.     Hh  nuji 

one  ciipjbie  of  occupjiog  IhE  minuttr"!  plKc'l 
Out  Bmple  poLiiiciin  had  not  taken  «ucb  a  eon- 
tideruion  in  hb  tnind.  The  king  makcd  Ciuadn 
whether  he  would  meet  Ricbeljeu  Cue  to  FUe  > 

up  the  leuluiinn  with  equai  coucige  and  linipii- 
city. 
CAuBin  went  for  the  purpote :  be  bond  the 

wu  iDng,  from  which  Ciiutin  mgured  iii.     He 

chjMnber,  be  conhiTed  fa  be  adrnilttd  Into  iJie 
ptoence  nf  Ihe  king,  when  tie  petfomied  hit 
pTTHnlse.      Bnt  the  tax  wu  ■ILera)  I      Ou*dn  hid 

had  nnnpieiel]' Juki  lied  himielf  lolhe  king.  The 
good  filher  wu  ti^d  Ihit  the  kioc  would  not 
peTfonn  hia  denitioni  [tail  dar.  ind  Ihal  he  mighl 
murn   lo   Plrii.     The   ncml  'morning  the  whole 

dating  that  philmophefi  i™dence  al  Parii,  which 


31  ipeaking  ,M 


nckl  of  Qnimpcr  in  Brittany,  where,  amonf 
HTue  Inttahitanta,  be  wu  coatlnoaliy  meiucf 
a  ptbon  or  a  gallcnn,  which  the  Verfitic  mir 
loci  no  oppartiuuty  to  place  Ixfore  bii  ima^na' 
and  occa^onallj  dopaEched  a  ftm  Caaette,  V 
diaiiied  the  rennn  of  Richclieu'i  bean,  and  w 

bean  of  t£e  luulated  politician  chained  ti 

Such  were  tbe  conlraited  falea  of  Father  Joseph 

tile  other  the  timpie  oppositiODiat,  ■>!  (hd  . 


any  man  in  that  uc  in  Burppe."    Such  wai 

when  yel  vntnncbcd  by  partv  feeling,  he  bi  ^ 
citue  Co  pieadi  and  no  qnaTTcJ  with  Eniih-t 
file  portralc  of  Buckin^am  by  HuincieemifD 

participating  Ihem  amoneolbtn.    Hsbcbu^* 
conccaii  tbe  more  favnutable  pana  of  no  ordiBai 

bis  chiracler  li  iort  in  tlie  gcnctal  ihade  cait  on 


FTdmimulatloB  and  hypocTHy  were  art 
d  by  this  CDuTtter-  "  His  iweel  and  ai 
ooer^u  TavDured  by  the  gracn,"  tiu  hetn 

wluifl  Clarendon,  anolhcr  liiing  wimnu 
that "  He  wu  the  moa  rardy  accompli  '  ■ 
n  had  erer  beheld  1  while  some  that  A 


Bjnch  on  "  the  feffiea  of  the  wi«." 
t  In  "  llie   teiparity "   to   acconipanT  *"  Tbe 


TlfE  DUKE  OF  BUCKINQHAM. 


b»  lcark«  Di  dinflcr  i  he  was,  in  ■  word,  a  niAn  of 
icnutlan.  L-Iing  from  ImpulK ;  Kmming.  ioileci], 
pniikniiil  vkwi,  but  capuLc  A  an  times  of  vm- 

'TbeuncuUr  Oprnomof  hiacbaractrr  wianol 

BorcnubJc  qnnrity  "  cmool  put  lU  (hpir  panTom 
&   llMit  pocken."      He  toUl   ihe   Connt-Dukt 

lUtLom,  bat  with  re^ud  to  yon,  ur,  in  jHiticubr, 

must  ever  expect  fiom  meiJl  poHbtc  enmity  And 
nppo^iion'"  Tbe  rardintl  wu  willing  enough, 
sa>'»Hiime,  "toKccpt  wh«  wBi  profleird.  indon 
ihcK  lermi  Ihe  brnuniis  pined."  BuckiDghim, 
dtfHroui  of  iccommoditlng  the  tunies  in  the 
nation,  once  trieti  >l  the  (aVonr  of  the  puritanic 


hli  panv,  obKived,  that  il  nn  true  thu  the  duke 
WIS  1  lite  ind  pmfligiW  fcllow,  but  IhU  Ihcit  wu 
■u  other  wiy  lo  come  lit  him  but  by  the  loweit 
flMtety  I  Uul  il  *»•  neeesmy  lor  the  gkHy  of  God 


JP9 

»i  by  the 


enemy  to  the  people ;  often  ■erioui  in  the  ben 
dcHi^m,  bul  volatile  In  the  midit;  hi)  gieil  emr 

Myi  WoltDn, "  greedy  of  honour  and  taoi  upon  the 
public  ends,  but  loo  tonfident  in  tbe  proipcrity  of 

ueithCT  genenl  dot  adminO  i  a  minister,  and  yet 
no  Kalmunj  i(  often  the  eieatun  of  popular 
admiration,  he  was  at  length  hated  by  the  people  \ 


d  ever  disobliged  him,  that  t 

.Ink. 

•^r; 

lold  by  Thomas  Baker  lo  W.  W 

coming 

.. .  _ ._  . secret  hisioiy  of  It 

:kingliim,  by  Dr,  Geaige  B^bam,  ^yski 


model  of  that  clas;  of  daperale  tcribhlen.  "  Thi 
Cilsenen  of  his  libels,"  savj  Oerbiei,  "he  hati 
lince  acknowledged,  thourfi  too  late.    Duringm; 

1  letter  to  me,  which  is  still  ntani :  he  inopoKd 
if  tbe  king  would  pardon  and  receire  him  Inti 
Eirour  agiJo,  with  some  competent  subsistence 


Uaod  alier  he  had 


peat  crimes  in  tbe  eyes  of  the  people  was,  that 
"  bis  enterpnses  succeeded  ntK  actordintf  10  their 
impossible  expectation  ;"  and  that  it  was  a  still 
greater,  thai  Buckingham  had  been  the  permanent 

le,ani  "be  wonfay  to  be  legirteieil  among 

mtelampleBOC  lime  and  fortune." 

ntrait  tbe  Cats  of  Bdchhohah  with  that  of 

....  jreat  rival,  Rickiiieu.      The  one  winning 

populai^ty  and  losinff  it;  once  in  the  Commons 

saluted  as  "  their  n^leemer,"  till,  at  length,  they 

the  evils  and  dangcn  (o  the  king  and  kingdom." 
Hagnilicent,  open,  and  mercifuTi  so  fatbearing, 
even  in  his  acts  of  gentle  oppnstion,  Ibat  Ibey 
were  easily  evaded :  and  riots  and  libels  were 
infecting  the  cnuntry,  till,  in  the  popular  clamour, 

the  dagger  was  planted  in  the  bean  r>f  the  incau- 


ckingham,"  I 


not  tpndily  oulsrrip 

*  Tbe  misery  of  piime  ministers  and  lavouiitd 

been  i>otlced  by  their  biographers;  one  musi  be 

thorn  in  their  ^llow.     Who  could  have  imagined 
that  Buckinglum,  poaonng  the  entire  aikctionB 

fear  being  suppUnted>     when  bit  contidential 

with  the  duke,  he  would  ore  way  at  night  Is  those 


3I  bydijr.  in  Ihe  a 


ce  of  111  other 


the  great  business  ofa  Heel,  of  an  armv,of  asiege, 
of  a  Ireatv,  of  war  and  peace  lioth  on  foot  iDgetner, 
and  all  Dl  them  in  bis  head  at  .  time,  did  not  so 

deserved,  were  now  content  to  forget  him."  Ba 
■hort'lived  is  the  graiitudc  obsen'cd  to  an  ainent 


jio  THE  DOKE  OF  nUCKrXOHAM. 

Ulcd  lad  hia  scoJIbJds  rv>cJ,  ud  died  in  uTcty  j  (bough  this  vir  (nr  Ibe  Prolcil 

-nicK  ndsti  1  nunuKript  memoir  of  »i  Billba- '  imonit  ibe  Ce^in  pnncn :  ihi 
MtGtihiet.wbowuoMof  rhnteii^enioiu  m™    Ticio,  — " ■■ ■" 

illhaneh  ihc  duke  hioueir  wi 


lira!  min,  he  had  not 

emplatirt  one;  lie  wppim  inii  acnctcurjr  oy 
lally  "lifiiid  aud  qunhoaiotf  well'*  the 

ud  Ijml  B)c«,  ind  the  Locd  Keeper  Williim^ 
a  nil  n  HKh  n  Gnbici,  weic  admitled  inlo  lhi< 

Lord  BkoOi  of  adiice  U)  our  minuter,  vrilten  ai 
hit  own  ref]iKit  i  and  I  have  aeen  a  laive  corre- 
■pondence  irith  Ibal  HitMUe  poliUciui,  llie  Lord 
ICecper  WillianH,  who  aAcrrarili  altcmirted  lo 
kuppbnt  bim,  lo  die  ume  pwpoae.    Gerluer  w» 

one  of  the  confidential  i^nti  of  Buckingtum; 
the  Mend  of  RidMu  Ibe  painicr.  wiib  whom  he 

negntialion,  and  beeame  at  lenph  the  maiterof 


did  not  Knd  pTDpheli  imtre  lo  tbe  Pr^ 
to  othtTi)  lo  tighl  against   naliou-^  ai 

|H1ncc^  to  eopge   them    inio  unni 


In  diatcuBe,  conndcii  inev  laictr  m  ine  uaiHi«  oi 

cbiinonr,  and  indeed  uaietv  Ibr  tite  prince  and 
the  PtDinUnt  caiue.  A  neW  li|^  ii  can  over  Ibii 
extrwmlinajy  traouctinn  \ty  a  terret  uhich  tbe 
duke  imparted  lo  OertHi.T-  'llfte  pri^-ct  waa  Vurk- 
jngham'ij  a  brighl,  ori^indl  iicw»  IhiI  taken  far 
oulof  Ibe  line  of  precedence.    It  was  one  of  Ibove 


of   Bohemia,  alliwugh 

incea  ol  ihe'enTp're.w^) 
11   againU  Ihe  power  of 

1.  ttai  moat  bitterljr  run 


depend  on  one  cincle  i 
■n  Enj^and  i  thi>  James 


requited,  cbocaiQg  ruber  ro  lutfer  an  eclipac  of  bis 
peiwnal  repulalian,  than  lohriDi;  into  Mich  baxard 
the  repuratioD  and  force  of  bis  lungdomi  in  a  war 
of  nonopes. 
Ai  a  laiher  and  a  kiog,  from  private  and  fram 

had  a  doaUe  tie  on  Jamei.  and  it  vas  aiwaja  the 


^nt  mtli.*  These  ne^iations  lu>d 
thTDugb  all  tbe  ledinm  of  diplomacy ; 
pmmbra  of  Ibe  courtly  Oondomar  wi 
return  of  the  courier,  lo  brins  suddei 
from  Ibe  subfile  OUcarea.  Buckingham  mc4i< 
tiled  by  1  single  blow  to  itrike  at  Ibe  liue  leael, 
wheTbet  Ihe  Spanish  court  could  be  iadnced  to 
hasten  tbi^  important  obfecl,  fpined  oeer  by  Ihe 
timlTcied  aliiaace  i^ilh  Ibe  Hniclrdi  cmwn,  fimn 
tiK-  lipa  of  tbe  prince  blnuilf,  Tbe  Thole  xw 
dauled  Kith  poliii..^  ehiraliT,  and  magnificncc ; 
it  WIS  caught  liy  Ibe  hl(b  iinrit  nf  UwvonthfBl 


panic  wbieb  aciied  Ihe  EnoHsh,  fearful  of  tbe  per- 
wnal  safely  nf  Ihe  prince,  did  doI  prevail  wilb  Ibe 


mar's  pleauni  wt  of  impudeucc,  U'hcn  James 
capn^Ai  hinnelf  with  ereat  warmib  on  tbe  ^■ 
niards  under  ^noLa,  taking  the  hisr  town  Id  ibe 

Gon^mar,  wilb  Cervantic  humour,  aitempied  lo 

Siat  Spinola  had  taken  the  whole  Palatinate  at 


THE  DUKE  OF  BVCKINQHAM. 


An  Bnglbh  tint  wju  Ihcn  wlUil^!  in  a  ftpinUh 
|Hirf,  and  the  Spanish  court  Invilinff  nnr  prince  tn 
Ihe  piDil  Ki*^urial,  juvndvd  Ihe  fkpartyre  of 
CharliTi.  u  Huine  ehprnsei  it,  vilfa  *'dabD»te 

Tbi*%  xtcinpl  DC  Bnckln^hun,  of  ohicb   Ihc 

poutelv  linml.  rniinly  (lilcd  wilh  ibc  «piiiiard. 
Ilie  Cilfaollc  kiRDC  autwclalKd  Ike  trotstint. 
Al  llnl  the Rpiniih  coucl ludbKn h mucll  talien 
by  lurpriK  b  the  rot  of  tbe  wnrhl ;  nil  punk* 
Hvmeil  at  (heir  hTvI  interriew  higbh'  gralified. 
"  We  mav  rule  the  world  lo|rcthcT,  uUI  the 
Spaniib  ID  the  Bngliifa  miniuer.  The]'  were, 
howtTer,  not  made  by  nature,  or  stale  lute- 
r0t9,  to  wree  it  ■  lecond  Iqterview-  Tbe  Lord 
Keeper  WiUiarni,  i  wily  eonitler  ami  Hibtite  |>ali- 

ham.eviJenllytnpplantedhim  in  Ihefaromofhii 
Foyal  matter,  when  aaketl  hj  Junes, "  Wbcther  he 
Ihnughl  lhi>  knigbl-emnt  ptlgrinigc  would  be 
likdytuirtn  the  Spanish  lady?"  antwered, with 
much  political  [WEdghl,  and  tiw  the  dilBculIy; 

Dukv  olivam,  and  nmember  he  is  the  favourite 
o1  jipain  \  or,  if  Olivirea  will  show  honourabiu  tivi' 
lily  to  Eny  lord  marqub,  Tememherioa  he  Is  the 
(avourile  of  England,  the  wooing  BiayTn  pnii|>cr- 
oas, :  bat  if  my  loni  marqub  ihould  fbiwt  where 
he  is,  and  not  stoop  to  OlieareE  {  or,  ifOlivaTCZ, 
r.iT^tine  vital  gnnt  he  bath  receind  with  the 
prince,  bear  hinuelf  lilw  a  Caalilian  grandee  lo  my 
Uird  Riarqui*,  Ihc  prorocalion    nkay  cross  your 


:ateflmen,  in  every  respecl  Ihe  opposites  of  the 
le^nl,  the  spirited,  and  Ihe  open  Buckingham, 
"he  Kn^hsh  (aTOurtte  checked  Ihe  hinuli"  C"<>- 
an,  the  Cai-uuiile  of  Spain,  and  Ihe  mnie  than 
..in^'like  canlinal.  iIk  favourite  o(  France,  wilh 
the  rival  spiiit  of  his  Jdand,  proud  of  her  c(|hality 


pect  atKiwn  liv  the  CanUiui 

ninii  his  leltcn.  Gethicr  lays  tlie  «i 
_  ridiculous  miiiUke  aboul  this  cire 
The  fact  of  the  letlen  Is  true,  since  G 


---    ,. -, -najaHy. 

Buckingham  discovered,  at  he  told  OerliicT,  that 
the  Inlanu,  by  the  will  of  her  father,  niilip  HI., 
was  designed  lor  the  emperor's  ion  t  the  Cathtdlc 


ive  perpltac 


s  fallawiBi  d»y,  howenr,  tbe  cardinal  le- 
Gerbier  dVilljr,  and,  with  many  rhetoTica] 
■ions  respecling  the  duke,  "1  know,"  sud 
he  power  and  greatness  of  a  high  admiral  of 

andprescritK  law  more  fisTcibly  than  the  nnvu  of 

'k  dnkeS  liumhhMcrvanl."  lliis  WW  an  auilngy 
lade  «ilh  all  Ihe  fUiait  of  a  (iani,  and  by  a 
great  ilalrsinan  who  had  recovered  fai>  sfiucs. 


did  not  join  in  the  popular  «}■  were  branded  with 

haps  their  triumph,  by  their  shouts 

protacaWd^ 


"KSi"'.'; 


312 


niK  i>rKr.  of  nrrKfX'iHAM. 


^iTr.c  o\  \'\^'AC  ri' ■'■u":r:-j.  But  rn. iivu^  inilinl 
were  thc^c  r(.j(>:t.  r.'i.:',  l"r  the  ur-,:  I'tT  j)  irt  wis 
occvi'iiied  by  a  laKc  rutnour  that  the  Uuke  was 
to  be  sent  to  the  Tower ;  no  one  inquired  about 
a  ncw^  which  e>'ery  one  wished  to  hear ;  and  so 
sudden  was  the  joy,  that  a  ms.  letter  aay*.  "the 
old  scaffold  on  Tower-hill  was  pulled  down  and 
burned  by  certain  unhappy  bo^  who  sud  they 
would  have  a  new  one  built  for  the  duke."  This 
mistake  so  rapidly  prerailed  ••  to  reach  eren  the 
country,  which  blazed  with  bonfires  to  announce 
the  fall  of  Buckingham.*  The  shouts  on  the 
acquittal  of  the  seven  bishops,  in  1688,  did  not 
speak  in  plainer  language  to  the  son's  ear,  when 
after  the  verdict  was  given,  such  prodigious  accla- 
mations  of  joy  *'  seemed  to  set  the  king's  autho- 
rity  at  defiance  :  it  spread  itself  not  only  into  the 
cit>',  but  even  to  HounMow-heath,  where  the 
soldien  upon  the  nevrs  nf  it  gave  up  a  great  shout, 
though  the  king  was  then  actually  at  dinner  in 
the  camp."t  To  the  speculators  of  human  nature, 
who  find  its  histor>-  written  in  their  libraries,  how 
many  plain  lenons  »eem  to  have  been  lost  on  the 
mere  politician,  who  is  only  such  in  the  heat  of 
action. 

About  a  month  before  the  duke  was  assassi- 
nated,  occurred  the  murder  by  the  populace  of 
the  man  who  was  called  "llie  duke's  devil." 
This  was  a  Dr.  Lambe,  a  man  of  infamous  cha- 
racter;  a  dealer  in  magical  arts,  who  lived  by 
showing  apparitions  or  selling  the  favours  of  the 
devil,  and  whose  chambers  were  a  convenient 
rendezvous  for  the  curious  ^f  both  sexes.  This 
wretched  man,  who  openly  exulted  in  the  infa> 
mous  traffic  by  which  he  lived,  when  he  was 
sober,  prophesied  that  he  should  fall  one  day  by 
the  hands  from  which  he  received  his  death ;  an^ 
it  was  said  he  was  as  positive  about  his  patron's. 
At  the  age  of  eighty,  he  was  torn  to  pieces  in  the 
city,  and  the  city  was  imprudently  heavily  fined 
6000/.,  for  not  delivering  up  those  who,  in  mur- 
dering this  hoary  culprit,  were  heard  to  say,  that 
they  would  handle  his  master  worse,  and  would 
have  minced  his  flesh,  and  have  had  every  one  a 
bit  of  him.  This  is  one  more  instance  of  the 
political  cannibalism  of  the  mob.  The  fate  of 
Dr.  Lambe  served  for  a  ballad,  and  the  printer 
and  unger  were  laid  in  Newgate.t  Buckingham, 
it  seems,  for  a  moment  contemplated  his  own  fate 
in  his  wretched  creature's,  more  particularly  as 
another  omen  obtruded  itself  on  his  attention  ;  for 

*  Letter  from  J.  Mead  to  Sir  M.  Stuteville,  June 
5,  i6a8.    Harl.  mss.  7000. 

f  Memoirs  of  James  n.  vol.  n.  p.  163. 

X  Rushworth  has  preterved  a  burthen  of  one  of 
these  songs : 

Let  Charles  and  George  do  what  they  can. 
The  duke  shall  die  like  Dr.  Lamb. 

And  on  the  aaaa.«ination  of  the  duke,  I  find  two 
lines  in  a  ms.  letter : 

The  shepherd's  struck,  the  sheep  are  fled  I 
For  want  of  Lamb  the  ti;o{/'is  dead  I 

There  is  a  scarce  tract  of  *'  A  brief  description 
of  the  notorious  life  of  John  Lambe,  othcrwiK 
called  Doctor  Lambe,"  &c.,  with  a  curious  wood 
print  of  the  mob  pelting  him  in  the  street. 


rn  t!,'j  \K's  'i  ly  nf  Dr.  L  nr.l'c's  n".v;r<itT,  l;i<  riv :. 
p'  rtr.iit  in  the  t  or.ncii-ch  unhcr  w.is  seen  to  have  ' 
fallen  out  of  it5  Irame  ;  a  circumstance  as  awful  in 
that  nge  of  omens,  as  the  portrait  that  w^kcd 
from  its  frame  in  the  '*  Castle  of  Otranto,"  but 
perhaps  more  easily  accounted  for.  On  the  event- 
ful day  of  Dr.  Lambe's  being  torn  to  pieces  by 
the  mob,  a  circumstance  occurred  to  BnckiD^un, 
somewhat  remarkable  to  ahow  the  spirit  of  Uie 
timet.  The  king  and  the  duke  were  in  the 
Spring-gardens  looking  on  the  bowlers :  tfie  dnke 
put  on  his  hat.  One  Wibon,  a  Scotchman,  fern. 
kissing  the  duke's  hands,  snatched  it  off,  nfing, 
**  Off  with  your  hat  before  the  king."  Backing- 
ham,  not  apt  to  restrain  his  quick  fechn^,  kickra 
the  Scotchman,  but  the  king  interfenng,  said, 
"  Let  him  alone,  George;  he  is  either  mad  or  a 
fool."  "No,  Sir,"  replied  the  Scotchman,  "  I  an 
a  sober  man,  and  if  your  majesty  would  rare  me 
leave,  I  will  tell  you  that  of  this  man  which  many 
know,  and  none  dare  speak."  This  was  as  a  prog- 
nostic, an  anticipation  of  the  dacger  of  Felton  I 

About  this  time  a  libel  was  tal^  down  from  a 
post  in  Coleman-street  by  a  constable  and  carried 
to  the  lord  mayor,  who  ordered  it  to  be  delivered 
to  none  but  his  majesty.  Of  this  libel  the  manu- 
script letter  contuns  the  following  particulars : 

*'  Who  rules  the  kingdom  ?    Hie  king. 
Who  rules  the  king  ?    The  duke. 
Who  rules  the  duke  ?    The  de%il. 

— Let  the  duke  look  to  it ;  for  they  intend  shortly 
to  use  him  worse  than  they  did  the  doctor ;  and  if 
things  be  not  shortly  reformed  they  will  work  a 
reformation  themselves." 


The  only  advice  the  offended  king  soi_ 
to  set  a  double  watch  every  ni^t !  A  watch  at  a 
post  to  pre\'ent  a  libel  being  affixed  to  it  waa  no 
prevention  of  libels  being  written,  and  the  (act 
is,  libels  were  now  bundled  and  sent  to  fairs,  to 
be  read  by  those  who  would  venture  to  read,  to 
those  who  would  venture  to  listen  ;  both  patties 
were  often  sent  to  prison.  It  was  about  this  time, 
after  the  sudden  dissolution  of  the  parliament, 
that  popular  terror  showed  itself  in  various  shapes, 
and  the  spirit  which  then  broke  out  in  libels  by 
niriit  was  assuredly  the  ume,  which,  if  these 

Eolitical  prognostics  had  been  rightly  consmied 
y  Charles,  might  have  saved  the  eventual  scene 
of  blood.  But  neither  the  king  nor  bis  favourite 
had  yet  been  taught  to  req>ect  popular  leclii^. 
Buckingham,  after  all,  was  guilty  of  no  heavy 
political  crime* ;  but  it  was  his  misfortune  to  have 
been  a  prime  minister,  as  Clarendon  saya,  **  in  a 
busy,  querulous,  froward  time,  when  tne  pecmie 
were  uneasy  under  pretences  of  reformation,  with 
some  petulant  discourses  of  liberty,  which  die'ir 
great  impoeton  scattered  among  them  like  id^ases 
to  multiply  their  fears."  It  was  an  age,  whichwas 
preparing  for  a  great  contest,  where  both  parties 
committed  great  faults.  The  favourite  did  not 
appear  odioiu  in  the  eyes  of  the  king,  n^o  knew 
his  better  disposirions  more  intimately  than  the 


But  the  plurality  of  offices  showered  on  Bock- 
ingham  rendered  him  still  more  odious  to  the 
people :  had  he  not  been  created  lord  high  admiral 


THE  DUKE  OF  BUCKJSGBAM. 


uhk  (va.    But  umclhing  mon  thin  hb  owr 

be  illCKed  tor  bis  UHHnpiion  of  ttwK  oppnili 

A  pwi  n(  twenty  vein  appem  to  h»vc  nulH 

pn-«d  from  dElicknl  fpiht,  only  eadcd  in  our  ud' 
diviplinrd  soldicn  untler  bid  comminden  gctliof 

■LI  hid  the  povcr  to  run  iwaj-.    On  thb  evpedi' 


Another  eipcd>''o'>  '<■  XKbrlle,  under  the  Eurl 
of  Denbigh,  wu  indeed  of  *  more  lober  niture,  for 

—  -■— mleiH  no'  indeed  by 


BiKJLiiifcbflm  hlmielfrvho  pcnontlly  had  ei« 

bick  ihe  publk  ^nmr  by  ■  rwlred  and  pubbr 

onE  daring  CBt.ind 'on  Ihe  dyke  of  Bocbefle  to 
The  gvTulovt  Oerhler  ihill  tell  hit  own  itory, 
Ibe  mighty  prcpintiont,  ind  the  dtike*i  perfect 

fu]  Id  bit  engjtgement  with  Ihe  Frotcsunli  of 


ilew  up,  bed 
idoitheyw< 


he.  Ai  it  renected  none  of  the  gncei  or  beiuly 
of  the  orlflnil,  lad  Kerned  the  woik  of  »ni< 
wTetched  ipprenlire  of  Kiibeni  (pahjpi  ccrtnei 
hinuelOi  tnew  conlndictory  ucompinimcBli  id- 


ckscly  muoned  In  birki,  tfut  ibcy  micbi  bjre 
blown  up  the  bajfaf  a  town^  I  employed  thcfcin 
of  powder,  itone'i^Uflrrici,  bombs,  lire-b>ll>,  c  bains. 


will  be  «ith''iou,'^lhCT'too™ome  or  to"5ii: 
there.'  The  bflurr  of  thii  rtceii-ed  From  my 
bjndt  \  hundred  Jacohusei  to  ciiry  it  with  speed 

ind  Lost  his  life  ere  he  could  get  ibDiTd^  Nothing 
but  devth  b>d  hindered  him  or  (numted  his  dc- 

mirluble  pjisice.    "Theduke, a  llttlebefore  hit 

dcpjTtuEC  ftom  York-bouse,  being  ilDne  with  me 
in  hit  garden,  ind  giving  me  bialatt  commands  for 
my  journey  towndsllaly  ind  Spain,  one  Mr.  Wi^ 

prophesying  Lidf  ba^mfi  fnrclelline  thil  he 
should  eoilhi]  [ile  that  month:  betiiics  he  hid 


^^n:»x^i 

les.  ■(, 

stir  all  Ihe 

'ben  be  uid  to  the  duke,  *'  Ocoree,  there  ire 
lome  that  wish  both  these  ind  Ibou  mighteil 

1  logethei,  if  Ihon  doest  I" 


FELTOS,  THE  POLITICAL  ASSASSIN. 


eipcdiliOD,  tc  gave  >  fvevcU  nuaqiw  mud  auppCT 
•<  Vort-houK,  <o  (belt  mijatici.    In  the  muqiK 

opn-mourRnl  do^  whkh  weR  lo  n^nxt 
turkings  ni  the  people,  vbile  naX  ome 
■nd  Tmih  ;  jnd  cbe  couTI  BlIcgDrr  nprenc 

Am  iwohilelji  ramnl  in  the  ilty  tain 
people  had  »  much  M  fieail,  the  blond  Bw 


M  foUowing  ^tapb  on  BuckhighAir 


:  England's  thame— ind  tbere'fl  hii  (^uph  ^ 


•a  the  riddy-heuM  mullitu 
•eikt  In  bis  own  penon ;  and  ' 

elinp.  then  (kuHng  among  Ihi 


Mull  augfif  atfrtgiit  m 


.    B^kln^^ 


3r  Ihat  I  corretpond  with  fDTri§[n  «1ata 

U'hcihci  the  king')  (bes  or  conFederatet) 

ro  pkit  the  ruin  ol  Ibe  king  and  ilaK, 

Kf  CM  rnn  thouehl  of  the  PaUtinile ; 

Jr  thai  tite  bundled  dHiniand  poundi  dmb  lie 

n  Ihe  Venice  bank  10  help  Rpain'i  ina>e4ty ; 


U  (leeljr  giien,  but  Ibey  muH  pay  me  (or 't. 
Hor  ihair^-DU  ever  prot-e  1  had  a  hand 
Id  pMoning  of  the  monaich  of  this  land. 
Or  the  like  band  bt  poisDninfE  to  inloi 
SDuthanrpton,  Ovfrird,  Kimilton,  Lennoa. 


My  power  ihill  be  unbounded  la  each  thing. 
Seem  n-ix,  and cejxihrnlopcTTurb  the  realm, 

Whal  frcalurei  Ibcy  were,  thai  barki  anjui 
the  moon, 

Cotrtilcn  their  lalcbeta  uughl  not  to  transcend ; 

To  the  houac  ol  commons  common  ihings  Sc- 


'  Buckingham's  death.  Charles  1.  cberiilked 
emot?'  warmly  as  his  life,  advanced  hti 
,  and  designed  to  raise  a  magni6ccntmoau< 

0  hi)  memory  i  and  if  any  one  Bccnsed  the 
he  king  alviyi  imputed  the  fanll  to  him< 

<  catch  at  any  of  his  oOice^  for  tbcy  will 
cmseliei  dewired."    chatia  called  Butk- 

1  "bis  mart}!!"  and  often  aiid  the  worid 
ich  mrilaken  in  Ibe  duke's  character ;  lui 

commonly  thought  the  dnke  ruled  hit 


faithful  and  obedicn 


ol  hi)  charge."*    This  n  one 


Brutus,  rising,  in  the  style  of  a  patriotic  bald, 
"  Refulgent  from  the  nrolie."— Aiihiidi. 

over  Bnmis's  "  God-like  stiokc."  as  Pope  has 


iT.i.i"\\  ////;  /  ■'/  ///•  .1/  .1.--.I  ^ 


r   .■-  1 


■         .'.   .1  '1  '.:i 


;  '  ■.  I .i-i-  f ;.i  I '  k-.  :  ■  '  !  ' 
icri.'iit  i-riiii  i;-.!. .  H.s  :;■.■■- 
•■w.T  ij)p..Mrc«l  even  iiKom 1 1^ .ihic  tn  his  <i  n'tin- 
pi>nri'7>;  lor  Sir  Henry  WDtifin,  who  Hah  written 
iliicof  the  Duke  of  Biickini^ti.tin,  obv:r\e«,  tli.-it 
"wlutmay  have  tK.>en  the  imnieili.ite  or  greatest 
nuttivc  of  that  teioiiK  u<*  conception  (the  Uukc'^ 
2M»injtion)  ii  even  yet  m  the  •  loiuN."  After 
ttcTtaminirth.it  it  wj^  not  prix.ttc  rc\cnKe,  he 
KCirato  comlude  that  it  w.xn  Dr.  K)o;l«>h*-'i>i''^ 
hihcMH  "  IiImtI,"  and  the  **  renmnstnnie  "  of  the 
lurliimrat,  uhiirh,  haiini^  made  the  duke  "one 
(A  the  fuuk*^t  nioastem  npfin  earth,"  worked  on 
the  link  imoginatiim  of  Keiton. 

From  Felton"*  menKindile  example,  and  *v)me  1 
liniilir  oiic<,  one  observation  iHcuni  worth  the  i 
ooticc  of  etcry  miniver  of  »tate  who  d.ircH  the  i 
p<ipuLir  odium  he  h.is  raised.    Such  a  niini<«ter  i 
«iilalwayi  l>e  in  prcMrnt  danger  of  a  \iolent  ler- 1 
nioition  to  his  r  arcer ;  for  hou  ever  he  ni.iv  he  ' 
crarincctl  that  there  in  not  pohtic.i]  virtue  cnouuh  I 
m  a  w  hole  people  to  atlord  "  the  God-like  stroke,"  j 
he  mill  alw-a\9  have  to  dread  the  arm  of  .tomc 
mcLincholy  enthuMa^t,  whose  mind,  iiccretly  agi- 
tated by    the    public    indignation,  directs  itself 
soldy  on  him.    It  was  some  time  after  having 
vTiiten  this  reflection  that  I  discovered  the  fol- 
lowing notice  of  the  Duke  of  Buckingham  in  the 
aopuhli^hed  life  of  Sir  Symonds  D'Ewes.    "  Some 
of  bis  friends  had  advised  him  how  generally  he 
vas  hated  in  England,  and  how  needlul  it  would 
be  for  his  Kivater  safety  to  wear  some  coat  of  mail, 
or  Mime  other  secret  defensive  armour,  which  the 
duke  slighting  said,  *  It  needs  not ;  there  arc  no 
Koman  spirits  left.'  "* 

An  account  of  the  contemporary  feiline^  whiih 
srmpatbized  with  Felton,  and  almost  vim tionecl  j 
the  aMwin's  deed,  I  ^ither  fmm  tiie   mk.  letters  ; 
of  The  times.    The  public  mind,  throuuh  a  lun^ 
state  of  discontent,  had  been  prepared  lor,  and  not 
without  an  obscure  expectation  of,  the  mortal  end 
of  Buckingham.    It  is  certain  the  duke  receued 
many  waniint;^  which  he  de^piM.•d.    The  a«asM- 
nation  kindled  a  tumult  of  joy  throui^hout  the ; 
nation,  and   a   stare-libel   wai  written   in   stroiii;  i 
characters  in  tlie  f.ice^  ot  the  people.    'Hie  passable  i 
of  Felton  to  London,  after  the  awi^Vm-ition,  weineil  ■ 
a  triuiiipb.   N<iw-  pilietl,  an<l  now  biesHed.  mtither^  j 
belli  up  their  children  to  Inholil  the  vt\i<Mir  ol 
the   country  ;  and  an  old  wonian  exclaimed,  as  , 
Felton  paMcd  her,  with  a  script uril  allusion  to  his  , 
short  Mature,  an4i  the  mi^htmev  t.{  Uiu  kiu;:h.<!n,  < 
"God    hies*   thee,   little    Da\id!"       Felifin    w.isi 
nc.irly  s;iinted  In-fore  he  rca«  bed  the  inelrnpoh-.  ; 
HLs  health  was  the  reigning  toa^t  amon^;  the  re-  I 
publicans.      A   character  somewhat  reinarkalilc.  ] 
Alexander  Gill  Cusher  under  his  lather  Dr.  Gill. ' 
master  of  .<tt.  Paul's  .Kihool;,  who  wa.**  the  tutor  ol 
Milton,  and  his  dear  friend  aiterwards,  and,  i>er- 
hap,  from  wiiose  impressions  in  early  life  Milton 
denied  his  vehement  hatred  of  Charles,  was  com- 
mitted  bv   the  Star<hambcT,  hea\ily  fined,  and 
sentcnceil  tn  Iom;  his  ears,  on  three  charges,  one  of 
which  aroM:  fmm  drinking  a  health  to  Felton.    At 
Trinity  Odlcge,  Gill  said  that  the  kinq  was  titter 
to  stand  in  <i  Chcapside  shop, with  an  3pron  before 
him,  and  uy    tyhat  lack  ye  f  than  to  govern  a 


*  Flarl.  MSH.  646. 


-«  *-■    h.  ll,-4  J  ..I   <■  •  ,     il.i.   i!'  I    i'm:!   .   .1    !.■    ■.■ ..    I    '     J  ■  .•'   I:,     I 

.idikfl  he  w.tN  virrx  lvlt<n  h.id  ilijir!\  t-cl  hini  «>!  the 
honour  of  d(>iu^  th.it  hr.ive  ait.*  In  the  taste  of 
th:it  ilay,  they  lontrived  a  |»oliiir.il  anagram  of  his 
name,  to  express  the  immoveable  self-€le\oti«in  he 
showed  after  the  a'-s.isjiiuitijin,  never  atteiiiptini; 
to  CM  ape  ;  and  John  Felton,  lur  the  niiuce,  wa<> 
made  to  read — 

Sfh  '  flu  mt ' 

But  while  Felton's  name  w.is  echoing  through 
the  kiimdoin^iiur  new  Brutus  was  at  that  moment 
exhibiting  a  piteous  spcttacle  of  n-'iutirv  ;  sn  <lif- 
ferent  otten  is  the  nal  jk  rvin  hinisilf  ironi  the 
idi-al  {K*r>onaue  of  the  piiblii'.  1'be  .loS-isMnatiou, 
with  him,  was  a  sortnl  theoretical  oni'.  (It-penilinu', 
a*>  wc  shall  shnw ,  on  t(>iir  pnip(i>'tiiins  ;  so  that 
when  the  kind's  attorney,  .is  the  att«'rne\-jeni  nl 
was  tlu  n  (ailed,  h.iil  luriii^hed  tiir  tinlrippv 
criminal  with  an  unexix'ctt-d  nri;un)ent,  whuii 
ap)K'ared  to  him  to  b:i\e  o\erturiu-d  hi^  he  de- 
clared that  he  hadt>een  in  a  misttkr  ;  .ni'l  lament- 
ing that  he  had  not  been  .iware  of  it  bil'  re,  Iroui 
that  instant  his  conMicniious  s]>irit  sunk  into 
dopair.  In  the  open  court  he  Mretrhed  out  his 
arm,  otTering  it  as  the  otiending  instrument  to  l>e 
first  cut  oti ;  he  requested  the  king's  leave  to  wear 
sackcloth  alwut  his  loins,  to  sprinkle  a!^he^  on  his 
head,  to  carry  a  halter  about  his  neik.  in  testi- 
mony of  repentance ;  and  that  he  mi^ht  sink  to 
the  lowest  point  of  tontrition,  he  insisted  on 
asking  pardon  not  onlv  of  the  diu  bets,  the  duk<-':> 
mother,  but  e\en  ol  llie  duke's  sculli'iu-b<  y  :  .md 
a  man  natur.ills  birne  was  sern  always  sht-ihli:  g 
tears,  so  that  n«)  one  couid  have  imauincd  that 
Felt«>n  had  lieen  "a  st«iiit  s<^.|'lier,"  'I  hex*  par- 
ti<  ularH  Were  givni  bv  one  of  the  di\ine.s  who 
attendeil  him,  to  the  writer  of  the  ms.  Uffert 

The  char  icttr  r.l  leiton  must  nt^t,  however,  be 
conceived  from  this  at!«ini7iug  scene  of  coutritit.u. 
Of  melaiu'tuily  and  reiireil  h  ibit»,  -'uid  one  (•!  those 
thouvind  crilu  er>.  w  ho  li.id  ini  urrcil  disnppoint- 
nu-nts,  Ixfth  in  promotion  and  in  arrears  of  p,i>', 
trom  the  tareless  duke,  he  felt,  pcrha|>s,  althoui'h 
he  denieil  it,  a  dei^ree  ol  iH:r>on;d  aiiiin*  «>ity 
towards  him.  A  Military  lu.in  who  cotu»iM-s 
l:iin''ell  injured  brorMK  ovtr  his  re\enire.  IVltj.n 
onie  4  lit  otI  a  pi'-te  ol  hii  «iwn  linger.  «'ni  lo-iuir  it 
in  a  chaliLUce,  10  loUMiire  the  person  whoiiihv 
ailiiri^vil,  that  he  \alu<.«l  not  nnlan".i-rini.'  Ii'"* 
wliole  l<i.t!\ .  pio\ideii  It  .iftonh.il  hnu  .•!]  oppir- 
luiii'y  ol  leii  le.iHi  e.t     Yet  wilh  -tli  this,  su»h  was 

*  'I  he  Ms.  k'lter  gi\iui;  llii-»  aricunt  oliv.Tie"*, 
that  the  wotds  toiueriiing  his  in.ije-1j  were  not 
reail  in  open  <oiirt,  br.i  onl\  thoM.-  lelaimg  to  the 
tluke  anil  felton. 

t  ll.ireiulm  notices  that  Felton  wis  "of  i 
gentleiirm's  laiiuly  in  Siitiolk  ol  gotxl  fnitiine  ami 
reputation."  I  find  that  duritur  his  contineinent. 
the  Flarl  and  (\)iiTife>s  of  Arundel,  and  laird 
.Maltraxers,  their  sun,  "he  being  of  their  bUiotl," 
Mys  the  letter-writer, c<,nliiiuall>  visited  him,  gave 
m'anv  protifs  ol  their  fiieudship,  and  brought  his 
"  winding-sheet,"  for  to  the  last  they  attempted  to 
s;ive  hiin  Ironi  l>eing  hung  in  chains  :  they  did  not 
succeed. 

I  Knsliworth,  v«il.  I.  ftjM. 


3i6 


FELTON,  THE  POLITICAL  ASSASSIN. 


his  lore  of  truth  and  rigid  honour,  that  Felton 
obtained  the  nickname  of  "  honest  Jack/'  one 
which,  after  the  assassination,  became  extremely 
popular  through  the  nation.  The  religious  en- 
thusiasm  of  the  times  had  also  deeply  possessed 
his  mind,  and  that  enthusiasm,  as  is  well  known, 
was  of  a  nature  that  might  easily  occasion  its 
votary  to  be  mistaken  for  a  republican. 

Clarendon  mentions  that  in  his  hat  he  had 
sewed  a  paper,  in  which  were  written  a  few  lines 
of  that  remonstrance  of  the  commons,  which 
appeared  to  him  to  sanction  the  act.  I  have  seen 
a  letter  from  Lord  Carlton  to  the  queen,  detailing 
the  particulars ;  his  lordship  was  one  of  those  who 
saved  Felton  from  the  swords  of  the  military 
around  him,  who  in  their  vexation  for  the  loss  of 
their  general  the  duke,  which  they  considered  to 
be  the  end  of  the  war,  and  their  rum,  would  have 
avenged  themselves.  But  though  Felton,  in  con- 
venation  with  Lord  Carlton,  confessed  that  by 
reading  the  remonstrance  of  the  parliament  it 
came  mto  his  head,  that  in  committing  the  act 
of  killing  the  duke,  he  should  do  his  country  a 
ereat  good  serx-ice,  yet  the  paper  sewed  in  his  hat, 
Uiinking  he  might  have  fallen  a  victim  in  the 
attempt,  was  diriercnt  from  that  described  by 
Clarendon,  and  is  thus  presened  in  this  letter  to 
the  queen  by  Lord  Carlton.  "  If  I  be  slain,  let  no 
man  condemn  me,  but  rather  condemn  himself. 
Our  hearts  are  hardened,  and  become  senseless, 
or  else  he  had  not  gone  so  long  unpunished.  He 
is  unworthy  the  name  of  a  gentleman  or  soldier, 
in  my  opinion,  that  is  afraid  to  sacrifice  his  life 
for  the  honour  of  God,  his  king,  and  country. 
John  Felton."* 

Felton's  mind  had,  however,  pre\-iously  passed 
through  a  more  evangelical  process ;  four  theo- 
loj^cal propositions  struck  the  knife  into  the  heart 
ofthe  minister.  The  conscientious  assassin,  how^- 
ever,  accompanied  the  fatal  blow  with  a  prayer  to 
Heaven,  to  have  mercy  on  the  soul  of  the  victim  ; 
and  never  was  a  man  murdered  with  more  gospel 
than  the  duke.  The  following  curious  document 
I  have  disco\'ered  in  the  ms.  letter. 

"Propositions  found  in  Felton's  trunk,  at  the 
time  he  slew  the  duke. 

1 .  There  is  no  alliance  nearer  to  any  one  than 
his  countr>'. 

Except  his  God  and  his  own  soul,  said  the 
divines. 

2.  The  safetv  of  the  people  is  the  chicfest  law. 
Next  to  the  law  of  God,  said  these  divines. 

5.  No  law  is  more  sacred  than  the  safety  and 
welfare  of  the  commonwealth. 

Only  God's  law  is  more  sacred,  said  the  divines. 

4.  God  himself  hath  enacted  this  law,  that  ail 
things  that  are  for  the  good  proht  and  benefit  of 
the  commonwealth  should  be  lawful. 

The  divines  said.  We  must  not  do  evil  that  good 
may  come  thereon." 

The  gradual  rise  in  these  extraordinary  propo- 
sitions, with  the  last  sweepine  one,  which  includes 
everything  lawless  as  lawful  tor  the  common  weal, 
was  at  least  but  feebly  parried  by  the  temperate 
divines,  who,  while  they  were  so  reasonably  re- 
ferring e%'er\'thing  to  God,  wanted  the  vulgar 
curiosity  to  inquire,  or  the  philosophical  discem- 

*  Lansdowne  mss.  109.  Auctioneer's  Catalogue. 


ment  to  discover,  that  Felton's  imagination  was 
driving  e%'erything  at  the  duke.  Could  tbcy 
imagine  that  these  were  but  subtile  cobwdM, 
spun  by  a  closet-speculator  on  human  aflairs  ?  Id 
those  troubled  times  did  they  not  give  a  thought 
to  the  real  object  of  these  inquiries  ?  Or  did  thcj 
not  care  what  befell  a  minion  of  the  state  ? 

There  is  one  bright  passage  in  the  histoiy  of 
this  unhappy  man,  who,  when  broken  down  in 
spirits,  (irmly  asserted  the  rights  of  a  Briton ;  and 
e\*en  the  name  of  John  Felton  mav  fill  a  date  in 
the  annals  of  our  constitutional  freeiKMn. 

Felton  was  menaced  with  torture.     Kuahwocth 
has  noticed  the  fact,  and  given  some  imperfect 
notes  of  his  speech,  when  threatened  to  be  racked ; 
but  the  following  is  not  only  more  ample,  but 
more  important  in  its  essential  particulars.    When 
Lord  Donet  told  him  (saj-s  the  us.  letter]  Mr. 
Felton,  it  b  the  king's  pleasure  that  vou  should  be 
put  to  the  torture,  to  make  you  con/ess  >-our  com- 
plices, and  therefore  prepare  yourtclf  for  the  rack : 
Felton  answered,  "  My  lord,' I  do  not  belie%-e  that 
it  is  the  king's  pleasiire,  for  he  is  a  just  and  a 
gracious  prince,  and  will  not  have  his  suhiects 
tortured  against  la%v.    I  do  affirm  upon  my  salva- 
tion that  my  purpose  was  not  known  to  any  man 
living;  but  if  it  be  his  majesty's  pleasure,  lam 
ready  to  suffer  whatever  his  majesty  will  hare 
inflicted  upon  me.    Yet  this  I  must  tell  you  br 
the  way,  that  if  I  be  put  upon  the  rack,  I  wiU 
accuse  vou,  my  Lord  of  Donet,  and   none  but 
yourself."*   This  firm  and  sensible  speech  silenced 
them.    A  council  was  held,  the  judges  were  con- 
sulted ;  and  on  this  occasion,  they  came  to  a  very 
unexpected  decision,  that  "  Felton  ought  not  to 
be  tortured  by  the  raik,  for  no  such  punishment 
is  known  or  allowed  bv  our  law."    Thus  the 
judges  condemned  what  the  go%'emment  had  con- 
Mantlv   practised.     Biackstone  }ields  a  fraternal 
eulogTum  to  the  honour  of  the  judges  on  this 
occasion ;    but   Hume  more  philosophically  itis- 
coven  the  cause  of  this  sudden  tenderness.    "  So 
much  more  exact  rca«oncn,  with  regard  to  law, 
had  they  become  from  tht  jtalous  tcrypies  ^  the 
House  ((/ Commons."    An  argument  which  may  be 
strengthened  from  cases  wnich  are  unknown  to 
the  writen  of  our  history.    Not  two  yean  before 
the  present  one,  a  Captain  Brodeman,one  whohad 
distinguished  himself  among  the  "  bold  speaken" 
concerning  the  king  and  the  duke,  had  been  ^ent 
to  the  Tower,  and  was  reported  to  have  expired 
on  the  rack ;  the  death  seems  doubtful,  but  the 
fact  of  his  having  been  racked  is  repeated  in  the 
MS.  letten  of  the  times.    The  rack  has  been  more 
frequently  used  as  a  state-engine  than  has  reached 
the  knowledge  of  our  hbtorians;  secret  have  been 
the  deadly   embraces  of  the  Duke  of   Exeter's 
daughter .T    It  was  only  by  an  original  journal  of 
the  transactions  in  the  Tower  that  Bumet  dis- 
covered the  racking  of  Anne  Askew,  a  narrative  of 

*  Hari.  MSS.  7000.  J.  Mead  to  Sir  Matt.  Stute- 
ville,  Sept.  ay,  i6a8. 

t  The  rack,  or  brake,  now  in  the  Tower,  was 
introduced  by  the  Duke  of  Exeter  in  the  reign  of 
Henry  VI.,  as  an  auxiliary  to  his  project  of  esta- 
blishing the  civil  law  in  this  countr>- ;  and  in 
derision  it  was  called  his  daughter. 

Cowel's  Interp.  x-oc.  Ratk. 


j'^/fX>(LV,-'  ii[M'<  F<>i:  Tin:  ijfi:  of  f<>f}:. 


51 


h-.rr-.r  '  J.imcN  the  I  ip-t  iniidcnt.illv  mentums  in 
hi'*  .i*:ccunt  <)|  the  powder-plot  that  thi^  rack  was 
/^-?t-n  to  Guy  Fjwkes  during  his  examination; 
and  yet  under  this  prince,  mild  as  his  temper  was, 
it  haid  been  used  in  a  terrific  manner.*  Elizabeth 
but  too  frequently  employed  this  engine  of  arbi- 
tnrr  power ;  once  she  had  all  the  servants  of  the 
Dnke  of  Norfolk  tortured.  I  have  seen  in  a  ms. 
of  the  times  heads  of  charges  made  against  some 
member  of  the  House  of  Commons  in  Elizabeth's 
fctf^,  among  which  b  one  for  having  written 
asainsC  torturing  !  Yet  Coke,  the  most  eminent 
of  oar  lawrers,  extob  the  merc>'  of  Elizabeth  in 
tiM  triab  of  Eskx  and  Southampton,  because  she 
had  not  used  torture  against  their  accomplices  or 
witnesses.  Was  it  for  the  head  of  law  itself,  as 
Coke  was,  to  extol  the  mercy  of  the  sovereign  for 
not  violatini^  the  laws,  for  not  punishing  the  sub* 
ject  by  an  lUegal  act  ?  The  truth  b,  lawyers  are 
rarely  phikMoplMTS ;  the  hbtory  of  the  heart,  read 
only-  in  statotes  and  law  cases,  presents  the  worst 
side  of  human  nature :  they  are  apt  to  consider  men 
as  wild  beasts ;  and  they  have  never  spoken  with 
any  i^reat  abhorrence  ot  what  they  so  erroneously 
considered  a  means  of  obtaining  confession.  Long 
after  these  times,  8ir  George  Mackenzie,  a  great 
Uw>-er  in  the  reign  of  James  II.,  used  torture  in 
Scotland.  We  have  seen  how  the  manly  spirit  of 
Felton,  and  the  scruples  of  the  Commons,  wrenched 
the  hidden  law  from  judges  who  had  hitherto  been 
too  silent ;  and  produced  that  unexpected  avowal, 
which  condemned  all  their  former  practices.  But 
it  was  reserved  for  better  times,  when  philomphv, 
combining  with  law,  enabled  the  genius  of  BlacK- 
stone  to  quote  with  admiration  the  exqubite 
ridicule  of  torture,  by  Beccaria. 

On  a  mmour  that  Felton  was  condemned  to 
rafier  torture,  an  effusion  of  poetry,  the  ardent 
breathings  of  a  pure  and  youthful  spirit,  was 
addressed  to  the  supposed  political  martyr,  by 
Zouch  Townley,  of  the  ancient  family  of  the 
Townlevs  in  Lancashire,  to  whose  last  descendant 
the  nation  owes  the  first  public  collection  of 
ancient  art.t 

The  poem  I  transcribe  from  a  ms.  copy  of  the 
times ;  it  appears  only  to  have  circulated  in  that 
secret  form,  for  the  writer  being  summoned  to 
the  Star-chamber,  and  not  willing  to  have  any 
such  poem  addressed  to  himself,  escaped  to  the 
Ha^e. 


*Thb  remarkable  document  b  preserved  bv 
Dalf^-mple;  it  b  an  indorsement  In  the  hana- 
writing  of  secretaiv  Winwood,  respecting  the 
examination  of  Feacnam,  a  record  whose  graduated 
horrors  mi^ht  have  charmed  the  speculative  cruelty 
of  a  Domitian  or  a  Nero.  **  Upon  these  interroga- 
tories, Feacham  this  day  was  examined  b^ort 
ttrture,  in  torture,  bet^snen  torture,  and  after 
torturt ;  notwithstanding,  nothing  could  be  drawn 
from  him,  be  persisting  still  in  bb  obstiiute  and 
Insensible  deniato  and  fosmer  answer."  Dalrymple's 
Mem.  and  Letters  of  James  L  p.  58. 

t  Z.  Townley,  in  1634,  made  the  Latin  oration 
in  memorv  of  Camden,  reprinted  by  Dr.  Thomas 
Smith  at  tne  end  of  Camden's  Life.  Wood's  Fasti. 
I  tind  his  name  abo  among  the  venes  addressed  to 
Ben  Jonson,  prefixed  to  hb  works. 


To  his  contintil  fricml,  Mr.  Jo.  Ff.lton. 


*'  Enjoy  thy  bondage,  make  thy  pnson  know 
T^ou  hast  a  liberty,  thou  can'st  tiot  owe 
To  those  base  punishments ;  keep  entire,  since 
Nothing  but  guilt  shackles  the  conscience. 
I  dare  not  tempt  thy  valiant  blood  to  affray, 
Infeebling  it  with  pity ;  nor  dare  I  pray 
Thine  acts  may  mercy  tinde,  least  thy  great  story 
Lose  somewhat  of  its  miracle  and  glory. 
I  wish  thy  merits,  laboured  cruelty ; 
Stout  vengeance  be«t  liefriends  thy  memory. 
For  I  would  have  posterity  to  hear. 
He  that  can  bravely  do  can  bravely  bear. 
1  ortures  may  seem  great  in  a  coward's  eye ; 
It's  no  great  thing  to  suffer,  less  to  die. 
Should  all  the  clouds  fall  down,  and  in  that  strife. 
Lightning  and  thunder  serve  to  take  my  life, 
I  would  applaud  the  wisdom  of  my  fate. 
Which  knew  to  value  me  of  such  a  rate. 
As  to  my  fall  to  trouble  all  the  sky, 
Empt\  ing  upon  me  Jove's  full  armoury. 
8er\-e  in  your  sharpest  mischiefls ;  use  your  rack. 
Enlarge  each  joint,  and  make  each  Miicw  crack. 
Thy  soul  before  was  straitened ;  thank  thy  doom, 
To  show  her  virtue,  site  hath  larger  room. 
Yet  sure  if  every  artery  were  broke, 
lliou  would'st  find  strength  for  such  another 

stroke. 
And  now  I  leave  thee  unto  Death  and  Fame, 
Which  lives  to  shake  Ambition  with  thy  name; 
And  if  it  were  not  sin,  the  court  by  it 
Should  hourly  swear  before  the  favourite. 
Farewell !  for  thy  brave  sake  we  shall  not  send 
Henceforth  commanders,  enemies  to  defend ; 
Nor  will  it  our  just  monarchs  henceforth  please, 
To  keep  an  admiral,  to  lo6e  the  seas. 
Farewell !  undaunted  stand,  and  joy  to  be 
Of  public  service  the  epitome. 
Let  the  duke's  name  solace  and  crown  thy  thrall 
All  we  for  him  did  suffer,  thou  for  all  t 
And  I  dare  boldly  write,  as  thou  dar'st  die. 
Stout  Felton,  England's  ransom,  here  doth  lie  !" 

This  it  b  to  be  a  great  poet.  Felton,  who  was 
celebrated  in  such  elevated  strains,  was,  at  that 
moment,  not  the  patriot  but  the  penitent.  In 
political  history  it  frequently  occurs  that  the  man 
who  accidentally  has  effectuated  the  purpose  of  a 
party  is  immediately  invested  by  them  with  all 
their  favourite  virtues ;  but  in  reality,  having  acted 
from  motives  originally  insignificant  and  obscure, 
his  character  may  be  quite  the  reverse  they  have 
made  him ;  and  such  was  that  of  our  "  honest 
Jack."  Had  Townley  had  a  more  intimate 
acquaintance  with  his  Brutus,  wo  might  have  lost 
a  noble  poem  on  a  noble  subject. 


JOHNSON'S  HINTS  FOR  THE  LIFE  OF  POPE. 

I  SHALL  preserve  a  literary  curiosity,  which 
perhaps  is  the  only  one  of  its  kind.  It  is  an  ori- 
ginal memorandum  of  Dr.  Johnson's,  of  hints 
for  the  life  of  Pope,  written  down  as  they  were 
suggested  to  his  mind,  in  the  course  of  hb 
researches.  The  lines  in  italics,  Johnson  had 
scratched  with  red  ink,  probably  after  having 
made  use  of  them.    These  notes  should  be  com- 


f 


318 


JOffS<!O.VS  HINTS  FOR   THE  LIFE  OF  POPE. 


pared  with  the  life  itself.  The  youthful  student 
will  find  some  use,  and  the  curious  he  gratified  in 
discovering  the  gradual  labours  of  research  and 
obsen-atiou  ;  and  that  art  of  seizing  on  those 
general  conceptions  which  afterwards  are  deve- 
lo[>ed  by  meditation,  an»l  illustratecl  by  Genius. 
I  once  thought  of  accompanying  these  hints  by 
the  amplified  and  finished  passages  derived  from 
them  :  but  this  is  an  amusement  which  the  reader 
can  contrive  for  himself.  I  have  extracted  the 
most  material  notes. 

This  fragment  is  a  companion-piece  to  the 
engraved  fac-simile  of  a  pajje  of  Pope's  Homer, 
given  in  a  pre\  ions  part  of  this  work. 

That  fac-simile  was  not  given  to  show  the  auto- 
graph of  Pope — a  practice  which  has  since  so 
generally  prevailed — but  to  exhibit  to  the  eye  of 
the  student  the  fervour  and  the  diligence  rejjuired 
in  every  work  of  genius :  this  could  only  l>e  done 
by  showing  the  state  of  the  manuscript  itself, 
with  all  its  erasures,  and  even  its  half-formed 
lines ;  nor  could  this  effect  be  produced  by  giving 
only  some  of  the  corrections,  which  Johnson  had 
already,  in  printed  characters.  My  notion  has  been 
approved  of,  because  it  was  comprehended  by 
writers  of  genius;  yet  this  fac-simile  has  been 
considered  as  nothing  more  than  an  autograph  by 
tho!<c  literary  blockhea<ls,  who,  without  taste  anil 
imagination,  intruding  into  the  province  of  litera- 
ture, find  themselves  as  awkward  as  a  once  po- 
pular divine,  in  his  "  Christian  Life,"  assures  us 
certain  dinners  would  in  paradise — Hke  "  pigs  in  a 
drawing-room." 


POPE. 


No 


Nothing  occasional.     No   haste.     No  rivals. 

compulsion. 
Practised  only  one  form  of  verse.  Facility  from  use. 
Emulated  former  pieces.    Coopcr's-hill.    Drydcn's 

ode. 
Affected  to  disdain  flattery.    Sot  happy  in  his  uUc- 

tion  0/  Patrons.     Cobham,  Bolinf^broke .* 
Gibber's  abuse  'will  be  better  to  him  than  a  dose  oj 

hartshorn. 
Poems  long  delayed. 

Satire  and  praiM.*  late,  alluding  to  something  past. 
He  had  always  some  poetical  plan  in  his  head.t 
Echo  to  the  sense. 

Would  not  constrain  himself  too  much. 
Felicities  of  language.    Watts.t 
Luxury  of  language. 
Motives  to  study — ^cant  4if  health,  ivant  of  money — 

helps  to  study — fmie  small  patrimony, 
prudent  andjrugfl — pint  of  wine. 

*  He  has  added  in  the  Life  the  name  of  Bur- 
linf^lon. 

t  In  the  Life  Johnson  pi^es  Swift's  complaint 
that  Pope  was  never  at  leisure  for  conversation, 
because  ht  had  alivays  somt  poetical  scheme  in  his 
head. 

t  Johnson  in  the  Life  has  given  Watts's  opinion 
of  Pope's  poetical  diction. 


Lettkrs. 

Amiable  disposition — but  he  gives  his  own  cha- 
racter. Elaborate.  Think  •tvhat  to  say — J4yti4«f 
one  thinks.     Letter  on  sickness  to  Steele. 

On  Solitude.  Ostentatious  henrt'otence.  Prrfesam 
oJ  sincerity. 

Seglect  ojjami.     Indifference  about  n-erytkiag. 

Sometimes  gay  and  airy,  sometimes  sober  andgmvt. 

Too  proud  qf  liz'ing  among  the  great.  Probably  iot- 
ward  to  make  acc}uaintance.  So  literari  moM 
ever  talked  so  much  oJ  his  fortune.  Grotti.  Im- 
portance.   Post-f^ffice,  letters  open. 

Cant  of  despising  Iht 'world. 

Affectation  <if  despising  poetry. 

His  easiness  about  the  critics. 

Something  of  foppery. 

His  letters  to  the  ladies — pretty. 

Abuse  of  Scripture — not  all  early. 

Thoughts  in  his  letters  that  are  clsewbere. 

Essay  o.n  Man. 

Ramsay  missed  the  fall  ^man. 

Others  the  immortality  ^  the  soul,    jfddreu  U  nr 

Sai  iour. 
Excluded  by  Berkley. 
Bolwgbroie's  notions  not  understood. 
Scale  of  Being  turn  it  in  prose. 
Part  and  not  the  whole  always  said. 
Conversation  v.'ith  Bol.    R.  aao.* 
Bol.  meant  ill.     Pope  ivell. 
Ctousax.     Resnel.     M'arburton. 
Good  sense.  Luxurious— felicities  t^f  languagji.  WeSI^^ 
Loved  labour — alivays  poetry  in  his  head. 
Extrenu  sensibility.     Jll-health,  head-aches. 
He  nti-er  laughed. 
So  conversation. 
So  ivritings  against  Swift. 
P.'irasitical  epithets.    Six  lines  of  Iliid.t 
He  used  to  set  do'wn  •what  occurred  <tA  thoughts— i 

line — a  couplet. 
The  humorous  lines  end  sinner.    PruneUo.t 
First  line  made  for  the  sound,  or  v.  vetsa. 
Foul  lines  in  Jcnas. 
More  notice  of  books  early  than  late. 


DL'NCIAD. 

The  line  on  Phillips  borrowed  from  another  poem. 
Pope  did  not  increase  the  diiTicultics  of  writing. 
Poetje  pulorum. 


♦  Ruffhead's  Life  of  Pope. 

t  In  the  Life  Johnson  says,"  Expletives  he rery 
early  rejected  from  his  verses ;  but  he  now  anil 
then  admits  an  epithet  rather  commodious  than 
important.  Each  of  the  six  first  lines  of  the  Iliad 
might  lose  two  syllables  with  \-ery  little  diminn- 
tion  of  the  meaning ;  and  sometimes  alter  all  his 
art  and  labour,  one  verse  seems  to  be  made  for  the 
sake  of  another." 

t  He  has  a  few  double  rhymes ;  but  alwa)^,  I 
think,  unsuccessfully  ;  except  one  in  the  Rape  of 
the  Lock. — Life  of  Pope. 


^•A^hAA^k^^^^^^^W^F^F^^^-^/V*^^^^^  ^"W^  ^ 


!  • 


CURIOSITIES  OF  LITERATURE. 


9  ^tlD  S^triti. 


MODERN  LITERATURE— BAYLB'S 
CRITICAL  DICTIONARY. 

A  Kiw  edition  of  Bayle  is  now  in  a  progretuve 

itote  of  publication ;  an  e\-cnt  in  literary  liistory 

which   coold    not    have    been    easily  p'rediaed. 

Extry  work  which  creates  an  epoch  in  literature 

n  one  of  the  great  monuments  of  the   human 

mind ;  and  Baylk  may  be  comidered  as  the  father 

of  literary  curiosity,  and  of  Modem   Literature. 

Much  has  been  alleged  against  our  author :  let  us 

'  be  careful  to  pr«cr*-e  what  is  precious.    Baylc  is 

the  in%-entor  of  a  work  which  dignified  a  collection 

of  facts,  by  reasonings  and  illustrations ;  conduct- 

ing  the  humble  pursuits  of  an  Aulus  Gellius  and  an 

Athenaeus  by  a  higher  spirit,  he  showed  us  the^Ai- 

U^pkjf  </  b0«kit  and  communicated  to  such  limited 

rescarcltcs  a  value  they  had  otherwise  not  possesKd. 

This  was  introducing  a  study  perfectly  distinct 
from  wliat  is  pre-eminentlv  distmguishcd  as  *'  clas- 
sical learning,"  and  the  sunjects  which  had  usually 
entered  into  philological  pursuits.  Ancient  litera- 
ture, from  century  to  century,  had  constituted 
the  sole  labours  of  the  learned ;  and  "  variae  Ice- 
tioncs "  were  lon»;  their  pride  and  their  reward. 
Dante  was  reproached  by  the  erudite  Italians  for 
composing  in  his  mother-tongue,  still  cxpreMcd 
by  the  degrading  design.-ition  of  1/  volgare^  which 
the  "resolute"  John  Florio  renders  "to  make 
common ;"  and  to  translate  was  contemptuously 
called  f^f^arixxare ;  while  Petrarch  rested  his 
fame  on  his  Latin  poem-,  and  called  his  Italian 
mitgeltas  xmlgaret !  With  us,  Roger  Ascham  was 
the  hrst  who  boldly  avowed  "  To  speak  as  the  com- 
moH  people,  to  think  as  wise  men ;"  yet,  so  late  as 
the  time  of  Bacon,  that  great  man  did  not  con- 
sider his  "  Moral  Essays  '*  as  likely  to  last  in  the 
moveable  sands  of  a  modem  language,  till  they 
were  sculptured  in  the  marble  ofancient  Rome. 
Yet  what  had  the  ^reat  ancients  themselves  done, 
but  trusted  to  their  cmnwtlgaref  The  Greeks, 
the  finest  and  moot  or^nal  writers  of  the  an- 
dents,  "  were  unacquainted  with  e%-ery  language 
bat  their  own ;  and  if  they  became  learned,  it  was 
only  by  studying  what  ttiey  themsehres  had  pro- 
duced," is  an  observation  by  Adam  Ferguson. 

During  foarteen  centuries,  whatever  lay  out  of 
the  F«le  of  dassical  learning  was  condemned  as 
barbarism ;  in  tbe  meanwhite,  however,  amidst 
this  bartMtfism,  another  literature  was  insensibly 


creating  itself  in  Europe.  Every  people,  in  the 
gradual  accessions  of  their  vernacular  genius,  dis- 
covered a  new  sort  of  knowledge,  one  which  more 
deeply  interested  their  feelings  and  the  times,  re- 
flecting the  image,  not  of  the  Greeks  and  the  Latins, 
but  of  themselves !  A  spirit  of  inquiry,  originating 
in  events  which  had  never  reached  the  ancient 
worid,  almost  suddenly  enlightening  Europe ;  and 
the  arts  of  composition  bemg  cultivated  by  the 
models  of  antiquity,  at  length  raised  up  rivaLs, 
who  competed  with  the  great  ancients  them- 
selves; and  Modern  Literature  now  occupies  a 
space  which  looks  to  be  immensity,  compared 
with  tbe  narrow  and  the  imperfect  limits  of  the 
ancient.  A  complete  collection  of  classical  works, 
all  the  bees  of  antiquity,  the  milk  and  honey  of 
our  youth,  may  be  nived  in  a  single  glass  case ; 
but  to  obtain  the  substantial  nourishment  of 
European  knowledge,  a  library  of  ten  thousand 
volumes  will  not  satisfy  our  inquiries,  nur  supply 
our  researches  even  on  a  single  topic  \ 

Let  not,  however,  the  votaries  of  ancient  litera- 
ture dread  its  neglect,  nor  be  over-jealous  of  their 
younger  and  Gothic  sister.  The  existence  of  their 
favourite  study  is  secured,  not  only  by  its  own  im- 
perishable claims,  but  by  the  stationary  institu- 
tions of  Europe.  But  one  of  those  silent  revolutions 
in  the  intellectual  history  of  mankind,  which  are 
not  so  obvious  as  those  in  their  political  state, 
seems  now  fully  accomplished.  The  very  term 
*'  classical,"  so  long  limited  to  the  knowledge  of 
ancient  authors,  is  now  equally  applicable  to  the 
most  elegant  writers  of  e\'ery  literary  people ;  and 
although  Latin  and  Greek  were  long  characterised 
as  "the  learned  languages,"  yet  we  cannot  in 
truth  any  longer  concede  that  those  are  the  most 
learned  who  are  "  inter  Grsecos  Gr.-ecissimus,  inter 
Latinos  Latinissimus,"  no  more  than  we  can  re- 
ject from  the  class  of  "  the  learned,"  those  great 
writers,  whose  scholarship  in  the  ancient  classics 
may  be  very  indifferent.  I'hc  modem  languages 
iu>w  have  adso  become  learned  ones,  when  he  wno 
writes  in  them  is  imbued  with  their  respective 
learning.  He  is  a  "  leamed  "  writer  who  has  em- 
braced most  knowledge  on  the  particular  subject 
of  his  investigation,  as  he  is  a  "  classical "  one  who 
composes  with  the  greatest  elegance.  Sir  David 
Dalrymple  dedicates  his  "Memorials  relating  to 
the  History  of  Britain  "  to  Earl  Hardwicke,  whom 
he  styles,  with  equal   happiness  and  propriety. 


MODEBS  LlTEHATVRE—nArLE'S  CRTTlCAL  MCTrOtfAST 


"Lliu[d  in  Britah  Binoty."     "  Scholiuhip '■ 
lu>  hitticria  bun  i  tcim  mcmd  fm  Ihe  ulcpt  Id 

al  hii  iDlcUecli  hut  the  honoiinblc  diitincllon 
moM  be  dtcndcd  to  dl  gnat  wrilcn  in  mcKlem 

Knfc  uid  prapridy  of  Ihii^. 

Modem  litcnluR  nu,y,  perhipi,  itiU  be  dii- 
cnmiuted  frwn  Ibe  iiqcientt  by  «  term  H  begin 
to  be  ciUed  by  at  the  SefaRnAtioii^  AmX  of  "  the 
New  Levning."  without  topplintiog  the  ui- 
cient,  the  modetn  muiI  gtow  up  with  it ;  the  fir- 
Iher  we  jidvuice  in  Kciety,  it  will  more  deeply 


tnowk^ ;   ciutire  geiiiiu  ofteo  ii  ittelf  tbe 

want  which  looner  orbiFT  will  be  tupplied.  The 
predbpoflitiob  for  the  vuioiu,  but  aeglecled  lit  en- 
Ledge,  unong  the  Modcnu,  which  bad  Idng  been 
■ccrvmuUling,  with  the  tpeculative  turn  of  in- 
qnlry,  pienkUed  hi  Eurane  wlwn  fiAvi.iE  rnnt  hii 
pen  to  pre  Ihe  Ihil 
ence.    But  the  gn 


Hngi,  like  Ihe  m 


new  ipread  ot  Icnawledge,  the  cu 
Ihe  little  things  which  coocen  a 


.  arcbirci,  the 

ukd  niiiiig  Dp  new  qUetni  of  tbinknig, -ill  alike  re- 
Quired  Tcsevcb  ind  crilidim,  inquity  and  discds- 
(ioa.  Birte  had  lint  iludied  hii  own  age,  belbte 
be  gave  the  publk  bit  grtit  work. 

lionaiy  to  empty  the  nrioun  coUcctiaiu  he  hid 
made,  wilbaut  any  paitkiilar  design,  he  could 
not  hare  choien  a  better  plan.  It  permitted  him 
evciTlhing,  and  Dbliged  bim  lo  nothing,  ly  the 
double  fTeedom  oC  a  diclinnity  and  oriuites,  he 


at  1^  pleased  in  ttwie  arttcli 


1   Ihe 


pnbJicaiion  of  hit  dictionary,  ai  , 
the  ektranrdinar)-  enterpnte:  and  while  he  had 
been  going  on  with  the  work,  not  i-ei  knowing 
whither  he  wai  dincting  hit  coune  i  but  we  mun 
think,  that  in  hit  o*rn  mind  he  counted  on  lome- 
thin^  which  might  have  been  difhcuK  ii*n  foe 
BtiLihimielf  tohavedeiekiped.    The  author  of 

m.gM 


learning,  for  he  quotes  the  Latin  writers  cuFiou^y, 
not  elegantly  I  and  there  it  rea«n  to  luipect  thil 
he  had  entirely  neglected  Ihe  Orcek.  Bren  the 
erudition  of  antiquity  usually  reached  him  by  the 

His  multifarious  reading  was  chieHy  contined  to  the 

With  luch  deficiencies  in  his  litenry  character, 
Bayle  could  not  reaaonibly  eipect  to  obtain  pre' 

writinn  had  rwt  catricaled  him  from  the  second- 
ary ranks  of  bteralute,  where  he  found  a  rival  at 
eeery  step  ;  and  without  bit  great  work,  the  name 
of  04TLK  at  this  mtrtnenl  had  been  buried  among 
hit  controyenlallstt.  the  nbid  luneu.  the  cloudy 


n  this  manner.  Tbe  eabautted  topici  of  clatAcal 
iteracure  he  roigned  at  a  pronnce  not  idapled 
a  an  ambltkiut  geniui ;  sciences  he  rarely  touched 
in,  and  hardly  ever  without  betraying  tuperricial 
"o^Wk,  and  Involving  himself  in  abtuniitv; 


dealrous — in  tbe  progrcM  of  the  human  mind,  in 
which  be  was  n  philosophical^fumiihed,  loo, 
by  his  boarding  cunoslty  with  an  immerue  accu- 
mulation or  detaili,— dulful  in  tbe  art  of  detecting 
Calteboodt  amidst  trutlui  and  weighing  proba- 

chain  o7  argument  from  lit  Ant  principles  to  lit 


R^earchei  and  of  reasoningt :   be  had 
rmn  subtile  ideas.    He  collects  eiety- 


tide  of  the  pnbllc  s 


r  hit  argumenli  grow  ledioai,  a 
an  eiilivening  tale  reheee  the 


CffARACTEHTSTlCS  OF  BAYLF.. 


32» 


natare,  he  picks  ap  trhrial  thing*  to  amuse  us, 
while  be  a  grasping  the  most  antract  and  pon- 
derous.  Human  nature  in  her  shifting  scenery, 
and  the  human  mind  in  its  eccentric  directions, 
open  on  his  view  ;  so  that  an  unknown  person,  or 
a  worthless  book,  are  equally  objects  for  his  !^cu- 
lation  wi*^h  the  most  emment — they  alike  curiously 
instruct.  Such  were  the  materials,  and  such  the 
cenins  \i  the  man,  whose  folios,  which  seemed 
destined  for  the  retired  few,  lie  open  on  parlour 
tabks.  The  men  of  genius  of  his  age  studied 
them  for  instruaion,  the  men  of  the  world  for 
their  amusement.  Amidst  that  mass  of  facts  he 
has  collected,  and  thoK  enlarged  views  of  human 
natare  his  philosophical  spirit  has  combined  with 
his  researches,  Baylb  may  be  called  the  Shak- 
speare  of  dictionary  makers ;  a  sort  of  chimerical 
beinff,  whose  existence  was  not  imagined  to  be 
possible  before  the  time  of  Ba.vle. 

But  the  catalogue  of  his  errors  Is  voluminous 
as  his  genius  !  What  do  apologies  avail  ?  They 
only  account  for  the  evil  which  they  cannot 
alter! 

Bayle  is  reproached  for  carrying  his  specula- 
tions too  far  into  the  wilds  of  scepticism — he 
wrote  in  distempered  times;  he  was  witnessine 
the  ilragonadft  and  the  revocations  of  the  Romish 
church,  and  amidst  the  Reformed,  or  the  French 
prophets,  as  we  called  them  when  they  came  over 
to  us,  and  in  whom  Sir  Isaac  Newton  more  than 
half  believed :  these  testified  that  they  had  heard 
angels  singing  in  the  air,  while  our  philosopher 
was  convinced  that  he  was  living  among  men 
lor  whom  no  angel  would  sing !  Bayle  had  left 
persecutors  to  fly  to  fanatics,  both  equally  ap- 
pealing  to  the  Gotpel,  but  alike  untouched  by 
its  blessedness.  His  impurities  were  a  taste  in- 
herited from  his  favourite  old  writers,  whose 
nAtvete  seemed  to  sport  with  the  grostness  it 
touched;  neither  in  France,  nor  at  nome,  had 
the  age  then  attained  to  our  moral  delicacy :  he 
himself  was  a  man  without  passions  I  His  trivial 
matters  were  an  author's  compliance  with  the 
bookseller's  taste,  which  is  always  that  of  the 
public.  His  scepticism  b  said  to  have  thrown 
ever>-thing  mto  disorder.  Is  it  a  more  positive 
evil  to  doubt,  than  to  dogmatise  ?  Even  Aris- 
totle often  pauses  with  a  qualifying  perhaps,  and 
the  egotist  Cicero  writh  a  mo<lest  it  seems  to  me. 
His  scepticism  has  been  useful  in  history,  and 
has  often  shown  how  facts  universally  believed 
are  doubtful,  and  sometimes  must  be  false. 
Bayle,  it  is  said,  is  perpetuallv  contradicting 
himself;  but  a  sceptic  must  doubt  his  doubts; 
he  places  the  antidote  close  to  the  poison,  and 
lays  the  sheath  by  the  sword.  Baylb  has  him- 
self described  one  of  those  self-tormenting  and 
many-headed  sceptics  by  a  very  noble  figure, 
"  He  was  a  Hydra  who  was  perpetually  tearing 
himself." 

The  time  has  now  come  when  Baylb  may 
instruct  without  danger.  We  hare  passed  the 
ordeals  he  had  to  ^o  through  ;  we  must  now  con- 
sider him  as  the  historian  of  our  thoughts  as  well 
as  of  our  actions ;  he  dispenses  the  literary  stores 
of  the  modems,  in  that  vast  repository  of  their 
wisdom  and  their  follies,  which,  by  its  originality 
of  de»gn,  has  made  him  an  author  common  to  all 
Europe.    Nowhere  shall  we  find  a  rival  for  Baylb  ! 


and  hardly  even  an  imitator  I  Baylb  compared 
himself,  for  his  power  of  raiding  up,  or  di*ipelling 
objections  and  doubts,  to  "  the  cloud-compelling 
Jove,"  who  at  his  will  disperses  or  collects  the 
clouds;  but  the  great  Leibnitz,  who  was  himself 
a  lover  of  his  -varia  eruditio,  applied  a  line  of 
Virgil  to  Bayle,  characterizing  his  luminous  and 
elevated  genius : — 

'*  Sub  pedibusque  videt  nubes  et  sidera  Daphnis." 

Beneath  his  feet  he  views  the  clouds  and  stars ! 


CHARACTERISTICS  OP  BAYLE. 

To  know  Bayle  as  a  man,  we  must  not  study 
him  in  the  folio  life  of  Dcs  Maiseaux ;  whose  labo- 
rious pencil,  without  colour  and  expresMon,  loses 
in  its  indistinctness  the  individualizing  strokes  of 
the  portrait.  Look  for  Bayle  in  his  "  Letters," 
those  true  chronicles  of  a  literar>'  man,  when  they 
solely  record  his  own  pursuits. 

The  personal  character  of  Bayle  was  unblem- 
ished even  by  calumny — his  executor,  Basnagc, 
never  could  mention  him  without  tears !  With 
simplicity  which  approached  to  an  infantine  nature, 
but  with  the  fortitude  of  a  Stoic,  our  literary  phi- 
losopher, from  his  earliest  days,  dedicated  him'telf 
to  literature  :  the  great  sacrifice  consisted  of  those 
two  main  objects  of  human  pursuits — fortune  and 
a  family.  Many  an  ascetic,  who  has  headed  an 
order,  has  not  so  religiously  abstained  from  all 
worldly  interests ;  yet  let  us  not  imagine  that  there 
was  a  suUenness  in  his  stoicism  ;  an  ic>'  misanthropy 
which  shuts  up  the  heart  from  its  ebb  and  flow. 
His  domestic  affections  through  life  were  ferA-id. 
When  his  mother  desired  to  receive  his  portrait, 
he  sent  her  a  picture  of  his  heart  1  Early  in  life 
the  mind  of  Bayle  was  strengthening  itself  by  a 
philosophical  resignation  to  all  human  et'ents  ! 

*'I  am  indeed  of  a  disposition  neither  to  fear  had 
fortune,  nor  to  have  very  ardent  desires  for  good. 
Yet  I  lose  this  steadiness  and  indifference  when  I 
reflect  that  your  love  to  me  makes  you  feel  tor 
everything  that  happens  to  me.  It  is,  therefore, 
from  the  considemtion  that  my  misfortunes  would 
be  a  torment  to  you  that  I  wish  to  be  happy  ;  and 
when  I  think  that  my  happiness  would  be  all  your 
joy,  I  should  lament  that  my  bad  fortune  should 
continue  to  persecute  me  ;  though,  as  to  my  own 
particular  interest,  I  dare  promise  to  mysell  that  I 
shall  never  be  very  much  atkcted  by  it." 

An  instance  occurred  of  those  Social  affections 
in  which  a  Stoic  is  sometimes  supposed  to  be  de- 
ficient, which  might  ha%'e  artorded  a  beautiful 
illustration  to  one  of  our  most  elegant  poets. 
The  remembrance  of  the  happy  moments  Baylb 
spent  when  young  on  the  borders  of  the  river 
Auriige,  a  short  distance  from  his  native  town  of 
Carlat,  where  he  had  been  sent  to  recover  from 
a  fever,  occasioned  by  an  excessive  indulgence  in 
reading,  induced  him  many  years  afterwards  to 
devote  an  article  to  it  in  his  "  Critical  Dictionary," 
for  the  sake  of  quoting  the  poet  who  had  cele- 
brated this  obscure  ri»*er ;  it  was  a  "  Pleasure  of 
Memory !"  a  tender  association  of  domestic  feeling ! 

The  first  step  which  Bayle  took  in  life  is  re- 
markable. He  changed  his  religion  and  became 
a  Catholic ;  a  year  afterwards  he  returned  to  the 


CHARACTERISTICS  OF  BATLE. 


feurmbip  of  phiLoHph^  ii 


bid  AnRnptird  to  convcTt  by  a  klfi^t,  lonR  cnoHe 
torrincehHiiDntily^but  vhichrequiTEabianil 
■chption  Ibu  weibouldiwwmlinbnIciiniBjiu 


pcnod,  urcHliCjUIy  ob 


:udioric»r.o(<hcbiath<:n.a>i 

irulcd 

firtlh 

tiOD.     1 

n  cikuliicd  rbe  lime  of  bb  hcxl- 

ktiTdy  Riven  up  every 
It  dclioDus  inebriation 


Tbit  it  b,  wbicb  be  dm 


le  Ibe  gkxy  of  the  city,"  Cdc  Ul<  n 


td  uE  the  ftelormecl  p4rty  ia  Hi 


IK  tny  Teifon^    To  an  ordinju^'  pbilowpher 
iLd  bate  snmcd  hani  la  Lose  hii  uUri-  '^- 

'  UlkDie  iwfird  11  iharpcF  iban  his  pen," 

quietly  returned  to  bi^  Dic1ioi»r>\    Mis  Itb 
on  Ihitoccuiim  he  hasliinnelf  perpetuiied, 
"  I'he  Bweetncn  uhl  repose  I  hotl  in  the  ttudis 

my  •Icliilht.  uiJI  mAx  me  Hay  in  tliii  city,  if  I 


indeed  to  chinned  by  quiet  nod  independence, 
licent  olVen  nf  patron;^  --  from  Coi 


cifl  of  two  hundrvd  guiiteu  lix  the  delation  of 

hi9  Dictionary.     "1  hare  so  often  ricticuled  dedica- 
—    Ihit  I  must  not  risk  toy,"  wa  the  reply  of 


acknothled^rmtnl.  ttut  ttkcre  was  i>o  t»ok  id  bad 
ttial  we  might  not  proht  by  kxikin^  inia  same 
^rt.  Mm  oTcla&icaJ  attainmcota,  who  arc  study 


crrABArTrF.-r.'iT/c- 

•'  KHI  dF  tiwly  <ihi>'h'  hi 
.  no  a«]iiiriiig  beatty 


the  hTarrirv.  or  Ihc  wnil  of  hnrrb,  liy  whkh  be 
u'A«  cnmpc^lcij  tn  leave  miny  tiilnp  unccruin,  or 
tn  take  Ibcm  It  lecnnd-haml;  bol  tnuliu  TO  the 


pccdtur  vein  of  ^c^eaTch  and  ikUl 
Hm  uppeiRd  ID  hi>  "  pentea  int 
kiiniuic.  In  DiiceinlMt,  i««s,  ■  coinct  hud  i 
fared,  ind  Ibe  pnUk  yd  Ininbled  Map. 
lenli.m  mclcor,  which  th^Hllllnnglnnlinnn 


°?".S 


n  bjr  imifct 

pmjnt  thrir  uh^ect,  Ihini  ihride  It  into 
ana  cluplcni  and  whnonlycbvoieloui'rk 
idirai  Ihcy  lure  pbnn&l.  L  In  my  part,  h 
aU  rblmi  U>  authonbip.  and  iball  (bun  mj 


"  "'Sli'l' 


impk  account  of  cofnctt ;  but  irhcn  II  v^  i 
AiTTrd  that  Bavle'i  comet  ha4  a  nvmlvrnf  li 
Jib  awccndng  the  Fnnch  and  the  AnitrLins 
mn  becane  ai  teirilk  ai  the  camrt  itself,  i 
ratpmbiMledl 
Bavli*!  "  CliUilue   j^ntrak-  de  I'Higloin 


,'  l^n  br 


bittcrncH,  except  to  the  palate, 


m  l\  mnriemnnt  lii  hr  torn  to  pi>-ci:%  jnd  burnt 

■Uen  an  InrtiiiWcii  in  t>fi"l.  '•'  In  lell,  ni  dn- 
tnc  the  ijiiA  ahAmln,dik  bonk,  under  f-tin  tj 

Dndidon  locver,  aiv  id  ntbdenw  the  pen-dty  of 
mmplary puni^imcnt.    DelaRm-nie  mu^^Lne 

Dure  in  Ihe  only  way  Ik  could  conih>e.  and  lii 

lATLE,  whom  he  admired,  he  diip^ned  Ihivv 
kHuand  copies  of  this  procLvnaliuD  lo  be  pt-^tcd 
f  Ibrou^  PdrHf  the  alarm  and  the  riitinilv 

Lrery  hock  collector  haafened  lo  procure  a  cr  py 

mufiui;.  tIk  aiithf'r  of  the  "  Llin^  cr'ifLinnj 
u  Feu  might  bate  iDtcrted  t>d-  anecdc^-  In  1.i> 
nikcllon.    It  may  be  w:.Tth  addii^  ihil  Maim- 


rLE  to  our  younj;  phlloupheT  o«'er>bjdtmlng 

...J  laUe for  Slerary  hnlcrry  we  owelo  BivLi; 
and  the  f^reat  iatemt  be  cfjmmunicated  fi  tlieie 
-irKancbes  nread  In  tlie  natitnal  Ihiei  ipf  Luiripe. 
'ran™  hai  been  alnin  the  ricLiW  m  th-ie  wn\, 
lilt (Hir acunl-ltlnfH  bare  bcennpiil;  mil  J>-I.u- 
on,  who  deliiibred  In  them,ttlii  ehi^'-d  *i^  r 
mcan^  and  Ibtlr  end,  tiy  tlie  eti.:'  -.;  ;i.  %  ■^.j'lpv 
and  the  k^il  m  CTltli  l-f n  ubiib  he  j*<.l-,    \%iv^ 

phitii  bnl  bit  unvri  llii.iir.naFk  >  \t.\e  -x  '\>  •■  r—i. 

uf  early  alli-nipts  and  fl.<:    n.-': :.'    ■-.■  -  —  \ 


mhcvAmeoii*  w'tlil 


■i  the  vmdiciire  Faiher.  who  wai  of  loo  hut  alrecem'd.   He  aiirilinhi  tlic  uuhlk  cainiii:  m  Im 
unMtlnllon  tn  relish  Ibe  delicacy  of  our  author^  I  nudigalily  of  literal)-  anerdnle\  am]  irtliir  iiiiKiili.r 

i  idIb 

I  Keynle.  wbo  wa>  among  the  many 
Ibllte  to  K  the  father  corrected) 


._^ ■lpnidi^il]roflitcrai>'anerdnle\ai 

—    „ ,  Jl  the  ■ntituBei  be  I  hctroiu',  and  hh  IniiiH-nt  qiiiil 

could  miie  to  get  the  Clitiquc  hnmt  by  the  defcndi  biimclf  with  ikill.  "I 
huiK«an  at  hri».  TTie  ncutenant  of  tbe  police,  nature  of  thlnip  to  preh'nl  lb. 
.V. ..  _ — — .1.-  ,1^  among  the  many  who  did  prove  and  dear  tip  laiii,  an  am 
the  rather  corrected  by  layle, '  nuke  n*:  of  hi*  own  lh<ll■|:hl^  i 


:d  by  lavle, '  mjke  n*:  < 
9  time,  till  tn  qoole  n 
at  of  tbe   work  do 


poKce  was  a  threwd  frikw,  and  wuhins  to  put  an  '  drnibtleM  in  tlie  i^it  '  Inii  aw    iiiIIh <i'-t 

ndinm  OB  the  MgDIed  Malmbnuric,  allowed  Ibelintereit  the  nnblli  TaiepI  lie  dixno'-  >i<r'>  >l  "■ 
l™'kn"' of ']"  *"  Jrf"  it  himieHwith  all  tlie  i  pnlilical.ulwct^.    All  olbcH  Willi  «l»>1>  ■■ ' 


CrCERO  VIEWED  AS  A  COLLECTOR. 


Hkit,  hr  Eiunple,  ICB  miciwtmg  i 
thlD  the  SiMnlUf  w  C*«iir  dC  Colo 
biMiatE'^phin]  vorkj ;  yd  Li  tbii  work  Lockcu  oi 

worki  nhurb  are  Tud,  thougb  copuiqEng  nothini 
which  intrrBn  Ibe  Jiubiic."  Two  vein  iftci 
whvn  he  TtAumcd  thcfc  ]?ttcr%  he  cnuignl  bl 
pkin;  he  became  man  u^i^fntaliTC,  and  Dion 


which  do  DDl  come  to  the  reider  bv  hivinjc  bnt 
puaed  tbmugh  the  mind,  u  mti  n  Ihe  pm  or  the 

inmne  iadiHtry  neiriE  inih  a  depnTed  appetite 


niitil)  i  peihapi  then!  i: 


\^"^"'^^ 


Ihe  Te»tiiiR  of  Vir^l  ind  Ctcem- 

Ailbr  our  Ba¥u»  he  exhi.  itj  ■  petfect  mo 

Ibe  real  Ikemy  chvxter.  He,  with  the  lecrei 
ilchvnif  of  hnnun  hllipincu,  utraned  hii 
■|iiill)tyntiliirtbiHcbaKtiiKUli.aiid  it  Ihi 
oT  hK  ambUion  and  hii  fhrtniie-  Througfa 
Tolumtiioui  work,  be  eipenenced  the  citjfi] 
dC  petpeliial  aciiuMMnn  and  delight  i  be  obi 
glciEy,  and  he  eihluted  penecution.    He  died 

apcechkA,  be  lenl  a  Iresh  pTDof  to  the  printe 


nnwkdge  and 


badtHcfor  portTj.hehadacoiKeplional'Natii 

lucrul  hinTi  and  pmincnt  ohKnaticnn.  I 
manf  of  thne  he  might  probably  be  Indebted 
Koneruiui,  with  wborrii  thouoh  hn  rival  in  elo- 


keep  hii  books  for  him.  and  not  to  di^pote  of  his 


le  neighbourbood 


enlrcatiel,  Kith  the  ■ 


refined  In  the^rhape  of 


rndfhip,"  nyi  Cicero,  addmaing  AttJctvk* 
:hlng  to  escape  >-ou  of  vhalei'er  Ton  find  ■ 
!d  him  t 

inited  Ugelber, 


■bnuld  tend  bim  *  ho 
ol  Mercuty  and  Mil 
Cicero.  «it1itbeenlh_._ _ 


III  a  props 


THE  niSTORY  OF  THE  CARACCIS. 


plaiution  of  tkw  myilcry  oF  Ihii  aLlcEm-ical  alilue 
whLcb  eipKHcd  the  hippy  union  M  exercbe  txn 


not  IcB  tallied  thin  Ihe  bcfoHfUl.    The _ 

leEnper  oT  Cicero  was  dF  i  lobuH  ^nd  philo- 
)ic>l  cut,  not  too  iubject  to  the  iDnum  o( 
le  wb«  morhid  imagimlion  ind  dehcuy  al 


mypauiaa  incrraHi  for  this  »rt  of  Ihlngl;  if   a 
such  thit  it  miy  appeu*  rUiaiteut  in  the  em  of 
iniDy ;   hut  jov  tre  mj  fneDd,  ind  wiJL  on ' ' 
think  of  »i<9f>inE  my  wiifao,"    Acun— "  Pi 
Ebr  me,  without  Ihinkiof  funbET.  ill  it 
[liKWer  of  nrity*'    My  friad,  do  nol  spi 


(hit  cDUeclon  miy  not  be  diipleued  to  ducor 
■1  their  hud  »  vcnenUc  x  penonige  to  Cii^en 
nor  to  vnction  their  ovn  ftveruh  dilnt  and  pantii 
impitienK  iiith  ill  the  nplars  on  the  <lay 
ponesion,  ind  the  "  Hring  of  nnt> "  to  Ulo  _ 
(ommflmnng  prices— by  (he  anlhority  of  the 
pnKit  phiJctophet  of  intiquity. 

—■•■■  n,  Ihit  the  Ilegint  friend  of  Cicero,  rrai 
4  litenry  city  of  Alhcu^  ippcin  to 
ed  liut  ft  mooentc  income,  and  may  b( 

ve  traded  not  only  in  booki,  hnt  In  glidij 

whom  he  let  out,  and  ibo  charged  intn'eil  fbi 
le  of  bii  money :  circamatincei  vhlch  Com 
epos,  who  eivoin  account  of  bi«  landed  prop 
a  omitted,  as,  perhaps  not  welL   adaptci 

Atticui,   but   which   the    AhM    Mongault 

ii.    It  1i  certain  that  he  employed  hjsii 

who,  "to  the  fool-boy,"  aa  Middlcion  expr 

copying  the  woib  of  tbu  be«  auihon  for  hi> 

profit  of  the  maatet  and  Ihe  alave.    The  nai 


iouineaa  of  tnanumipt,  hi 
rto  lime,  the  poaeisor,  with 


of  meiliacTily,  or  is  deformed  ^Tralie  lutes,  then 

reatorine  another  golden  age  of  inremion.  The 
history  of  Ihe  Cincd  family  lerret  as  an  admiiahle 
iUiutiaiion  of  nich  an  epoch,  while  Ihe  pin»nal 
chataclets  of  Ihe  three  Cvaccii  Ibinw  an  adtliiinnsl 


profound  meditation 
■ppybaldne«iBihc 


Lndovicn.  There  w. 
__[  but  it.  gnat  .inpp 
inB.'hMemenotgenin 

;  and  i-et  then  wci 


lome  pictorial  quiuty.  Often  comhinlnR  touclher 
in  the  aamc  pictuTC,  the  mingled  labour  nf  three 
painters  seemed  to  proceed  l^oin  one  pallet,  u 
iheir  norki  inhibit  which  adorn  the  diurchei  of 
Bologna,  They  lUII  dispute  ahoat  a  picture,  to 
ascertain  which  of  the  Caraccis  paioled  Hi  and 
sEill  one  pnfen  Lodorico  for  his  xr^iuttttirA, 
another  Agoitino  for  hh  invention,  and  olbcn 

It  happened  to  Lodorico  Caracci  in  hia  >'onih, 

mind  tardy  in  in  conceptions,  so  ■hai'^e  gan  no 
indication,  oftalenti  ar«l  wa  apparently  «  Inept 

wise  to  medSVe''with!  Tmtorelto,  frotn  friendihip, 
eahoned  him  10  change  hia  trade.  "  Thi^  iiug- 
^ahnesfl  of  iuteliect  did  not  proceed,'*  olner^'e*  Ihe 


:^ 


I  HI.  iii>i<>i:v  "!■'  Tin:  ('ALA<<^i<. 


tlu-  .ii'i'tli  <■•  In-  j-i  lutT  iliii':  iiiind  :  r..il\  w.  \\\>.  l.c  . 
«ltt.uU'il  the  iikal  .is  a  i<>vk  oi\  xsliirh  mi  in '.n\  r>t 
hi>  iiintcmpcirtTK'^  had  hovn  shipwrecked."  His 
h.ind  w:t«  not  WiM  with  precocious  f.icihty,  because 
hi^  iiiiiul  NK.iH  iin!H.'ttleil  about  truth  itself;  he  was 
ittiU  MckiMi;  Inr  u.iture,  which  he  could  not  dis- 
inxcr  in  thow  mv retched  mannerists,  who,  l>oa"*tin>i 
ot  their  Ireidom  and  e\|H'dilion  in  their  t>e\\ilder- 
im;  tiLstCK,  which  they  railed  the  ideal,  relied  on 
their  diplninas  and  honours  ol>tained  by  intrigue 
or  purch.iM',  which  Mnctionetl  their  folliesi  in  the 
even  ol  the  multitude.  "  I.<hIo\ ico,"  says  l^in/.i, 
"  wimld  lirst  MtiMv  hi»  own  mmd  on  ever\'  line ; 
he  would  not  ]>aint  till  luintini;  well  l>ecamu  a 
hil>it.  and  till  h.ibil  prmluced  iacilit)." 

I.odoMco  then  MUiitht  in  other  cities  for  what  he 
could  not  t'ud  .It  R<>lo>;na.  He  travelled  to  inspect 
ilie  work^  ol  the  elder  masters;  he  meilit.ited  on 
.ill  their  details ;  he  j»cni'trated  to  the  very  thoughts 
1*1  the  iireat  artist*,  and  i^-ew  intim.ite  with  their 
minU-s  ot  conception  and  execution.  Tlie  true 
piincipU's  ut  art  were  collected  toi;ether  in  his  own 
mind,  the  rich  truits  ot  his  own  studies, — and 
thr«e  t»r«t  pr\»mpted  him  to  invent  a  new  school  of 
ivuntmi:.* 

Keturnini:  to  Bologna,  he  found  his  degraded 
bnuhen  in  art  still  ijuarrellink;  about  the  merits  of! 
the  old  antl  the  new  «chi>t)l,  and  still  exulting;  in  \ 
their  \  it:ue  conceptions  and  expeditious  methods.  > 
l.odo\ Ko,  who  had  obsen'ed  all,  h.td  .summed  up  ! 
his  principles  in  one  );rand  maxim, — that  of  com- 1 
binini;  a  cliMk*  obserxMtion  of  n.iture  with  the  imi- 1 
tatuMi  I'f  the  ureat  mister*.  modilyini»  both,  how- , 
exei.  b\  the  di'«|H»»iiion  «'!  the  artist  himself.     Such 
\\  M  the  'oimple  i«Um  and  the  happy  project  of  I.»»do-  i 
»ic.«'       l^\»iv    peru-vtion    HVined   to    ha\e    been: 
obt  iiiicti     the    Hiit^Mituhi  excelled  in  the  ide.d  :  _ 
the  ».'  .  ^.'.I'.ci.'.Vii^i  in  the  an.itoniical ;  the  Vene- 
ii  III   iiid  the  i.iMnbard  s«,hiM  N  in  brilliant  \i\.uity 
»i  pSiili-«t>phii   i;r.i>ii\.     .\11  st-enied  pre-<»ccupied  ; 
••lit  the  VA  !et  of  lircakini;  the  Innid-*  of  serxile  inu- 
I  ill. Ml  \\  !-»  a  iicu  .irt  :  ol  niiui^lini!  into  one  school 
the  «ll.|^n^  »«t   every  siIkm^I,  adaptini;  them  >Mth 
Uitdi'iii  ;  .indh.iMiv;lH*cn  laui^tit  by  all,  to  remain 
«  'ii.'di  I  fur  .ill  ;  or  a^*  I..in/i  exprvN-^-x  it,  ..'ii/wi  ii*:  e»^ 
'  ■  ■•   "  ■  .i.i  ::::,  i-  u^r:>  .1  .•:..'/.■.    To  reNture  Art  in 
1'.^  iln  liiir,  1  odmuH  pre^'.cd  dl  the  "«weet>  fnun  .dl 
i!i,     |I.'w»in;    ,ir,    inrltiiu;    Toother    .ill    lii'«   rich 
Ml  III  II   r»,    I. .mud    I'ue    I'l'TMiihim    It.ios.      This 
^»  !«■'.'  l^  il.<Hiili(-d  l.\  Iiii  )!roiiii\  in  the  charicter 
.»»   Vifibili, 

Vjiu'N  MduluN  M.innib.d  otiiiu-n 
ti»      iw>i-<.:\\i    \i«M»M    .itijiu-   in^-rein    imr.i    .irie 

1  i'»  1  :  J 

^*1   iplll   IMd    l«\     M   IM'U, 

M«-«it  «ti  ib«  11  |l1ll|l|^  iiMiil'incd.  with  happy  toil, 
l»i,|   Viiiiili  il  (i.in|^>v>  ln'»  wnndrniN  M\le  ; 
\*  »-i  ih«   1  III  h  lud  S.I  lU  M*  .1  \eil  IS  thrnwn. 
t  'mI  I  \«  is  )h>iii>\\  *d  i;i.ice  biM  ine^  lii'«  I'Uii.t 

*  I*   \lv;eii\ill,  .  N  w  dc»  l\lU«r\s,  II.  4h. 

♦  til*  , nil, 11*  ii  idti  ot  t.iNte  tn.»\  leter  to  Mr. 
>x»»-  ■  *  \«,oiid  I  ittiiir  It'i  .1  :.'..■:• -S  aciiiiNt  wh.it 
^,  «  t.'t  Mill  Itliiiu  Sihi'i'l:  v%huli.b\  s.-'ectiiii' 
V(S  i>t  ivui««.  ti'Mit iiitc.  ilic  l.loll^.  siippUiiii;  the 
«Kk%i«.  iiiiI  iii'iilnii;  tlu- I  Mii-iiHs  o«  the  di'Vrj-nt 
M«Ua,  «ii«iti|>i,,l  III  ti'im  I  |viK'it  N\Mi-in.*'  He 
««\m>ift  i«  dv«*  il«i  i,it  iiiii  ««  ii  ilu' I' II  III  In  ,    \ct  be 


l.cdovui)  j'cTi  «.i\ « «i  *\'..\x  ho  C'.'.i.'.l  n(>t -•..■:■.  1  J.  -.* 
in    the    hri-ach,  and    sini;]c-h.iniied   em  fi,.::tir  >i;  , 
imiH:tiious  multitude.     He  thciu>;ht  of  riiain*;  ap  a  ' 
party  amon^;  those  youthful  aspirants  who  had  not 
yet  been  habitually  depraved.     He  h^  a  brixhcr 
whose  talent    could    ne\(.r   rise    Itcxond    a  pniir 
cnpyint's,  and  him  he  h.ul  the  judgment,  unswajeJ 
by  undue  partiality,  to  account  as  a  cipher;  but  he 
found  two  of  his  coumus,  men  capable  of  becoming 
as  extr.iordinarv'  as  himself. 

lliev.'  bniiher<>,  Ai:<istino  and  Annibale,  first  by 
nature,  and  then  by  their  manner^  and  habits,  were 
of  the   most  opposite  dispositions.     B<iTn  amidrt 
humlde  occupations,  their  father  w.ts  a  t.ulor,  and 
Annibale  was  still  workini;  on  the  paternal  Iwird, 
while  Ago^tiuo  was  occupicti  by  the  elei;ant  wnrks 
of  the  goUUmith,  whence  he  acquired  the  line  art 
of   engravinu,  in    which    he   became  the    Marc 
.^ntonia  of  his  time.     Tlicir  m.tnners,   perhaps 
resulted  from  their  trades.     AgO:«tino  was  a  man  of 
science  and  litcniture  :  a  philosopher  and  pnct,  of 
the  most  polished  elegance,  the  moiit  cnchantiof 
converMtion,  far  removed  from   the    vul^,  he 
became  the  companion  of  the  learnetl  and  the 
noble.     Annibale  could  scarcely  write  and  read; 
an  inborn  ruggedneM  made  him  sullen,  taciturn, 
or,  if  he  spoke,  sarcastic  ;  scorn  and  ridicule  were 
his  bitter  delight.     Nature  had  strangely  made 
these  brothers  little  le<s  than  enemies.     Annihak 
despised  his  brother  for  having  entered  into  the 
higher  circles;  he  ridiculed  his  refined  mannen, 
and  even  the  neat  elegance  of  his  drew.      To 
mortifv  Agostinn  one  day,  he  sent  him  a  pnrtrdit  t-f 
their  father  threadint;  a  needle,  and  thtir  mother 
cutting  out  the  cloth,  to  remind  liim,  .15  he  once 
whis|H:red   in    .^gostino's  ear,  when   he  met  him 
w.klkiiiL:  with  a  nol)l( man,  "  not  to  forget  that  tliey 
were  vns  of  a  jHM)r  t.iilor?"     The  s.ime  contract 
exiMed  in  the  habits  of  their  mmd.     Agostino  was 
sUiw  to  resoUe,  diiVicult  to  satisly  himself;   he  was 
for  |M<li^hing  anil  maturing  cvemhing :   Anniltale 
W.IS  too  rapid  to  sutler  any  delay,  ami  often  ev»ding 
the  ditVuulties  of  the  ari,  loved  to  do  much  in  a 
short  time.     Lodovico  stxm  percvi*'ed  tlieir  cjual 
and  n.itural  aptitude  for  art ;  and  placing  Agostino 

laughs  at  tlie  mere  copying  the  manners  of  vam  us 
punters  into  tme  picture.  But  iierhaps,  I  s.ty  it 
with  all  ]»ossible  deference,  our  animate*]  criiK 
for.r<it  lor  a  moment  that  it  w.-is  no  mechanic  d 
iinit.ilinn  the  ("iraccis  intulcatcd  :  r.iturt-  And  tt*t 
weu*  to  lie  ei|u<Uy  studied,  and  ucmu^  1!  r.,i!ir- 
/.j/t'..'ii  f  .'.I  ffff^iit  i'l.i  ilup"iit,Vint.  B  irrv  di*- 
tinciii^he^  with  praise  and  warmth.  "Whether." 
M\s  lie.  "we  may  content  ourselves  with  idopiing 
the  •H.:»/i  /».',!»)  I'*  ti^t  pursuid  by  the  Cararcis  and 
tht  ir  st'hiM'l  at  Boli^gna,  in  iiniiing  the  |K'r  feet  ions 
rt  .nil  the  other  schtmls ;  cr  whether,  which  I 
ruber  hi-jK*,  we  lix^k  lurther  into  the  st>le  nf 
desij^n  ujMMi  our  own  studies  after  nature  ;  which- 
eicr  of  these  pl.ins  the  nation  might  hx  on."  &c. 
11.  5i>5.  Ttius  three  treat  name%  Du  Fremtn, 
FuHii.  and  B.irrb-.  restricted  their  notions  nf  the 
Caricci  plan  to  a  mere  imitation  ni  the  grtat 
masters;  but  I.an/i,  in  unfolding  I.nthnico's  prw. 
iect.li\-s  down  .vs  his  tir^t  prim  iple  the  oliscn-ation 
ot  II  itiire,  .md,  secondly,  the  imitation  of  the  great 
iuistei>;  .iiid  all  moibtied  by  the  natural  disposi* 
iii'ii  ol  the  arti>i. 


TBE  mSTOBT  OF  THE  CAEACCIS. 


Irt    &M  «    tie:r^   :;r.^^ 


to  be  iirickcd  OD  by  ibc  vur,  ind  Ihc  oifaET  kcfl  in  tV  fcu  n  i  n 

'But  1  new  ililTicultf  UOK  is    Ihc  (nrmpl  In  WB  ImlD  ii'iili 

Ihmightriil  Und(nini.intent  OB  Ibe  Of)  prr.jeii  tl<~DEfa   ifci  ti 

nf  Iht  KlbriiulkHi  of  Ihc  in,  In  fak  piuJcBtt  <hirirUT  ti  tl 


r  «rfirv4  ?f   icTlbninli^whb 


obtiincd  Ihe  philcMphji 

■okrlv  occupied  AonibaJi  . 

conlbun, liehtD^  and gruc.  were  Li«  own  mcqui-  ' S^n^vimmumt^^tiUjanA  -iirt^n  {iir'J; 
■lion*  Bui  Ihongh  AoDibik  |iicnnip(uo<nJ}  ;  Ena  dw RcmlBuol  the Jiuiab  wn  i 
?™™.         '..    .,._.._■ ...^__  -!—■ --  --i,|,i_i,„A<,p„^  J^^T^ 


ic  preferred  ta  nial.  yet,  vcord'  I  IbcmacKea 


en^ed  \tnn,  u 


Itw  vi>.~,u^  ^^. 
liid  AgoMino  iDDg  baiuted  la  oppoK  the  '  m  t«ik»iHJ  by  tv>d>   A  %yr\  ir. 


predtttlinlnt  lEylCp  Ld  ttwirlim  £«>*«;  Annlbik  .  ArvHi,  wilt]  t  (T"Te*qu:  T.^jia.,  «  ^rH^, 

T  t^  Qpp«iDH  "  WDTki  toroicfl^"  ind  10  the  'Cmcfroiii  (tjchu^fltf  IT>i#'.*e'  '' 

'jte  lihoun  of  their  wm-'—" -—'- -' -*—   "--     ■- -  ■    ■   -■  -    ■ 


I  itwif.  It'  perpnu 


I    lAita   tf   Af.lirA   iLc    r 


iltJfH{  '  'rf  ItjfijiTj  ^inljn:;' 


ing  griluilnuiLy,  ind,  M  il  n  (ud,  ullboul  JU-  I  •!<  BrlVni,  Alii»*  ir'  .'Ini,  » 
kru-y ;  but  Ino  Runy  bt1<  we  R(i«dnl  M  M«nt  dmr  tlu:  vn.l  ind  I'.l  '.rd  lih'. 
la  liie  binBfainent  at  Otwt  infecIioiK  puonn  ftiim  '  puc  '■i4in'>i-li>i  Liir.  «  Ihe  . 

eteimcd  irfiiB,  onnot  li«c  lo^bci  »d  CKipc   jlcy-  »w<.  •»  fi-*n  d  Inihi 

It  WH  hrw.  hoiRTer.  thit  AcMino  ('land  hh  I  whuin  lin  n-Hten  Ik-  iti"  -ri 

ml  'ev'nritKWne"t'>l^  « ■»  lol 

._     _ i(  hM<-fi  uhI  filile   ibc  (car  of  1  KW  cnmi'iiinr 

ih^ecu  for  Ihe  de4|;iu  of  Ibck  |>Bpih,  wba  on    moifily  riuUIn,  pnrferred  (iuii 


...  lorn.  "T«  ihe  cinwned  lufficknl  h  Ihc 
priie  ot  oliny."  nyi  Linzti  ind  while  ihc  foelt 
rliAnled  liKir  pnhia,  the  lyre  of  Ago<Iino  him- 

idf  t^nlcfuLJy  celehmed  ihc  pto^reit  of  his  pupLli, 


1^  aecrel  hittnnr  of  Ihis 
muSntion    far   Urn   ihiptlT 


111  new  la<n  into  a  few  renci,  eavly  to  be   t 
r.  FoKli  and  Barry  have  ptacTved  il 


^     ," 


V*      'i- 


^ 


"  ' 

— 

.^ 

-  .^  ■ 

J    - 

,"^;  ^ 

«r". 

*  -    • 

*«:r 

•rr.  i~^^  j'«  .u 

re 

—.■■.:■ 

.  L. 

-■ 

.T     ' 

i_-h:  ti    t.-.c:r 

«    ■ 

L"    ■ 

. 

-    T 

v;.i_"» 

.  ,1  ,-p«  ti^ir 

:* 

i-^Z. 

:  ■  ~ 

i-c^.  v  :;-i:  m* 

-V 

■*  T 

- 

iV 

.:~. 

i.  AS  w'-rthv 

> 

•^  I " 

•    ■ 

«*. 

:    *■>: 

•:.      .4=r.:^jic 

•  -1 

:■«: 

— ■ 

"  ■«< 

.  :?■  i^?**:?-.!'. 

"!..' 

•;  '.I. 

« 

■-       I 

•  * 

■   T.  *.*:  »;'..■. 

« 

'   ^' 

•  > 

• 

:«   »:-;:  <-.- 

•         • 

...  : 

■ '  ^ 

«*  -^ 

- 

*""..—    1  "**•  t 

I      .■ 

".■    : 

•-: 

'  .  « 

. 

,  *     -■  ■':  f^-"*"  - 

'v  ■" 

.      X 

• 

■■i     i'.-.-    ^■■■.    ■■ 

« 

•     .*'. 

-.. 

k       • . 

•  • 

.'.■.--.--;»  cr 

- 

".  k 

.- 

\. 

«> 

^«-  «:.  -.o  »  J 

,- 

•  ■       * 

u 

• 

• « 

*•  Tv:    .rr*  ir 

■      • 

..   ^' 

-•  .. 

■.■•  " 

v."    •\  1 1S^1 

* 

.  k 

■■•. 

:"",■ 

k 

:    "  i.-.  .■..■•^* 

'^ 

V 

■-• 

..1 

',;   •:e--i:.-r» 

%^  ■ 

■  ^' 

-■ 

4 

.  .   . «  -  ^ 

_    ^       k 


.'./:■'  '■/■  LiTLnMrni:.  i 

i 

AN   ENGLISH  ACADEMY  OP   UTERATIRE* 

We  hive  Ro\-al  Socictin  for  Phiu>«<>phlm,  for 
A\r;v".  \H!t"i,  anil  lor  Artist* — none  ivx  "Axs  or 
LstTEhS  !  The  lovcn  of  philuiogical  ^tudi-.-s  hait 
rrt^rrttctl  the  want  of  an  asvliim  uncc  the  dat« 
CI  Anm,  when  the  estabh^hment  of  an  En^^liih 
A'  irEVY  ur  LiTCH.\TVHC  wa%  dcNigncd  ;  but  pnli« 
\    "I..-;  -.c  *    .   i::  '.•   -r.*t.  » ;'..■.    r:.  il  vhjn»:«occum:ii  which  threw  out  a  literarr 

1  lr-:r.>rrition.  Fnnce  and  It.\]y  have  glmifd  in 
^mzniTionii  acadcmu-s.  and  e%'cn  in  pmtinciil 
-r.v«.  U'lth  ui  the  curious  hi>torv  and  the  fite  of 
ii\z  HVietie*  at  Sp.udm^,  St.-imford,  and  Poter* 
r«*7tjuch.  whom  their  lealous  n  under  litrcd  to  lee 
:r.k  into  country  cluM,  is  that  of  mo^t  of  our 
'u'ju  jnem{>ts  at  htcrvir>'  acadcmicn  \     The  Min- 

V  •     .     ■   -..  >■    ;.  --•  ■.  V-'  •\  I ls^l    ;    .>tcr  Soci-Tv  has  but  an  amhikoious  existence, 

ir..:  vr.w  of  Exeter  expired  in  its  birth.  Yet  thit 
a  c*^'  >t  purpose  mit  be  obtained  by  an  incon- 
*:-.rtt"lj  number,  the  hi'tor>-  of  the  *'  Society  lor 
tr.e  tr...-oi-.rA»?:mtfnt  af  Art^,  Manufactures,  ice," 
:  \     _».  .  .:  j  j..::-:>    ~iv  jn-vj  :"rbr  thit  onctniily  conitt^ted  oiUy  of 

•.wr.Tc  person^,  brouiiht  toother  with  «reat  oiifi- 

.*     -o:"*-"  "•*■    ».v:.'.- .  ar.J  no  the  r  distinguished  for  their  ability 

r.cr  t^.cir  rank. 

i*c  .\j?>-       T^z   opponents    tj    the    establishment    of  an 

-~e   «i-    itTuicrnv    m    thi%    cnuntr^*   may   ur^,   and  hnd 

•  -    -o-cc  r.'     P--  ere  ?r   their  Mde,  that  no  corporate  bo«h' 

■   A     .*    :*>:    ^.re-iit^  i  vojile  mm  of  (leniu^;  no  Milton,  no 

-,■    —  .*r^->»    H,*:e.  r >   Adim  Smith   wU  spring  out  ol  an 

.  „  ,^  ...   -_     i:>.-.^-r:^-al  ^orrm unity,  however  they  may  par- 

»    ..'.•■..     Tiki  o:  or.e  .-jmmon  labour.    Of  the'  fame,  too, 

'I  .:■:-■    -.■    *.-.i-ri:  an:.'nj  the  many,  the  individual  feels  his 

.  -<  vk  •  .-■    rv— r.. r  tvO  ci^nrracted,  besides  that  he  will  often 

■*     -^  .•■.•;-    «.-.T  **%  i:orr.pan<cn.     Literature,  with  us  exists 

V    ■      .. ;.      ::,i«7cr.  :.c!    o:'   p.itronii^e    or    a«ociation.    We 

..•.-■     .       -1   ;   »:.r.s   well  Miithinii  an  academy  ;  our  dic- 

■    ■.  "-.'-r    r  •- 1,-\  irjcv.r  5?>le  hive  been  polishcid  by  indi* 

.-^    :  ;     c-      k.-  .  -s  ir.o  T.\l  hy  a  j*viety. 

■*.  ■r--,'s..-:         '■■;    k.;\.*ra:e«  tor  Mich   a  literar}*  institution 

.  \ .  i    .-.::'  c    "1    "?'.'  ^ .  i::  m  in  « t'.at  ha<  been  advanced  a|;ainst 

•;■   :.    r^     ■.>».•  mivperhap*  r.nJ  more  cl(>r\- than  prntit. 

"  .       .1  "i;;    Kii  i"  a.:adcrr.y  been  e«tabli<hed  in  this  cuuntr>', 

:  -.-v  i:<   r^i:    ■*;:  *l:-::.i  have  pos4e^»ed  all  our  present  advan- 

■ ;    ■-'<'••    :  .?r«  » •.*..■•.  the  pevuiiar  ones  of  such  an  inMitution. 

.  %.  >;.  :•.  -     \  *f-r»  ct  *o.-mes  ci'mpo^ed  by  the  learned  of 

*.  •     .'.-'^  V-     i-;  ':•-•..  had  r.valled  the  prec%tus  '*  Memv'ifs  of 

■  -■  ?~::'.»h  Academy  ;*'  probabiy  more  phi iOH>phi- 

.    .  j:-^  n'.ore  cor.^niat  to  our  modes  of  thinkmi; ' 

V   ?  k.--:: -e.:i::r.j5  >Ftn:  creates  by  us  svmpathv  ; 

I  •    :".:e"*\urK  e\i*ts  between  its  meml)enk,  which 

'  .  :  rvt  cT^.erwiH:  occurred;  in  this  attrition  of 

--  vJs    t^e    tepid    awAcni,  the    timid  is   em- 

.•  ..i.-^evi.   and  the  »ecluiU:d  is  called   forth;   to 

.  -"iri..:.;  and  to  be  coRtruluted  is  the  priiilege 

•  ".i  t'-.e    tCuTve  CI   kni^wlcd.o:.    Tlivise    oripnal 

I.:.  14,  \  TVS,  and  «ui;^o>tion4  which  9ome  literary 

ri'jn  '»."re:.:r^'S  tl.n^w  out,  once  or  twice  dunng 

t' cr  w:;..*  ;:ie«.  mit;ht  here  i)c  preserved;  and  if 

cr  -..^vrvlw  Th  <v:tf.cirnt  funds  there  ve  important 

.ji'v.  TN,  uLi.c  yu^pass  the  rnean^  and  industry  of 

the    in«'.i«::u.tl.  whikh  would    he  more    ad\an- 

taj:^ ■".!<»  I  r^r.i-d  b>  »uch  hterar>'  unions. 

An  a^a»eniv  ci  iiteraturc  can  only  succeed  by 


X 


\   ■,       •■        ^         ■  .       ■  ■      ■ 

■  ,  \       .    ■« 

I  - 

■. » .     .■      .• 

•  «     .  «         ..        -v          V 

I  »     \» 

:.-    la.-; 

■  ■  %^    . 

»*     -v.  % 

.V 

•  ■•  V  ..    «    .. : 

'  ^'        ».     , .  • 

*  •     •  .; 

.  ^  .■■ 

:    «■  Ji-rrs 

.        »  ,       ■. «     1    tt     '     V    . 

■  ■■  \ 

.■■ 

*» ■.  ' 

■  ■■ 

. 

»                              k                    k 

» .  ■*.■ 

..:    I.     tV 

li»U'    »''»i    '■» 'k 

..        ^„.,.     . 

■•• .     ■  • 

.•   ^  c*..r   .' 

V-»«'*m\'    w  •*    »•■«■  ■•• 

."!  :•. -.h 

...    ^.. 

vl'    :\    a:: 

»\»'«\"\t  l«»M'""«*>" 

*  Lw-tng  A!^er  thi4  article  was  composed,  HcyMl 
\  J.jj^'r\  I'  Zrfjr^'r  ha*  l»een  projected ;  with  the 
.  «!at^  ot'ici  existence.  I  am  unacquainteil.    It  haa 
c^-»:asioncd  do  alteration  in  these  reaearchca. 


^xV  ENGLISH  ACADEMY  OF  LITERATURE. 


3^9 


the  SUM  means  in  which  originated  all  such 
aodemies— among  individuals  themseh'es  I  It  will 
not  be  "  by  the  uToar  of  the  many,  but  by  the 
vildom  and  energy  of  the  fkw."  It  \s  not  even  in 
ifae  power  of  Rovalty  to  create  at  a  word  what  can 
only  be  formed  by  the  cooperation  of  the  work- 
neo  themselves,  and  ol  the  great  taskmaster, 
Time! 

Such  histitutJons  have  sprung  from  the  same 
principle,  and  have  fcmowed  the  same  march.  It 
was  from  a  private  meeting  that  "  The  French 
Jkademy  "  derived  its  origin ;  and  the  true  be- 

E'nnen  of  that   celebrated  institution  assuredly 
id  no  foresight  of  the  object  to  which  their 
coaferenccs   tended.    Sct'eral  literary  friends   at 
Ktfis,  fin<fine  the  extent  of  the  city  occasioned 
much  k»s  of  time  in  their  visitt,  agreed  to  meet 
on  a  fixed  day  every  week,  and  chose  Conrart's 
residence  as  centrical.    They  met  for  the  purposes 
of  gieneral  conversation,  or  to  walk  together,  or, 
what  was  not  least  social,  to  partake  in  some 
re6esbing  coUation.    All  being  literary  men,  those 
who  were  authors  submitted  their  new  works  to 
thb  friendly  society,  who,  without  jealousy  or 
malice,  freely  communicated  their  strictures ;  the 
works  were  improved,  the  authors  were  delighted, 
and  the  critics  were  honest !    Such  was  the  nappy 
life  of  the  members  of  this  private  society  during 
three  or  four  >cars.    Pelisson,  the  earliest  historian 
of  the  French  Academy,  has  delightfully  docribed 
it :  *'  It  was  such  that  now,  when  thc>'  speak  of 
these  first  days  of  the  academy,  they  call  it  the 
golden  ase,  during  which,  with  all  the  innocence 
and  freedom  of  that  fortunate  period,  without 
pomp  and  noise,  and  without  any  other  laws  than 
those  of  friendship,  thev  enjoyed  together  all  which 
a  society  of  minds,  ana  a  rational  life,  can  yield  of 
whatever  softens  and  charms." 

They  were  happy,  and  they  resolved  to  be 
silent ;  nor  was  this'  bond  and  compact  of  friend- 
ship violated  till  one  of  them,  Mallcviile,  secretary' 
of  Marshal  Bassompierte,  being  anxious  that  his 
friend  Faret,  who  had  iust  printed  his  L'Honnite 
Homtiu,  which  he  had  drawn  from  the  famous 
"  II  Ontigiano  *'  of  Castiglione,  should  profit  by 
all  their  opinions,  procured  his  admission  to  one 
of  their  conferences :  Faret  presented  them  with 
h»  book,  heard  a  great  deal  concerning  the  nature 
of  his  work,  was  charmed  by  their  literary  com- 
munications, and  returned  home  readv  to  burst 
with  the  secret.  Could  the  society  nope  that 
othen  would  be  more  faithful  than  thev  had  been 
to  themselves?  Faret  happened  to  oe  one  of 
those  lighthearted  men  who  are  communicative 
in  the  ckgree  they  are  grateful,  and  he  whispered 
the  secret  to  Des  Marets  and  to  Boi^robert.  The 
tint,  as  soon  as  he  heard  of  such  a  literary  senate, 
used  every  effort  to  appear  before  them  and  read 
the  first  volume  of  his  "  Ariane ;"  Boisrobert,  a 
man  of  distinction,  and  a  common  friend  to  them 
all,  could  not  be  refused  an  admission  ;  he  admired 
the  frankness  of  their  mutual  criticisms.  The 
society,  besides,  was  a  new  object ;  and  his  dail^ 
business  was  to  furnish  an  amusing  story  to  his 
patron  Richelieu.  The  cardinal-minister  was  very 
literary,  and  apt  to  be  so  hipped  in  his  houn  of 
retirement,  that  the  physician  declared,  that  "  all 
his  drugs  were  of  no  a\-ail,  unless  his  patient 
mixed  with  them  a  drachm  of  Boisrol)ert."    In 


one  of  those  fortunate  moments,  when  the  cardinal 
was  *•  in  the  vein,"  Boisrobert  painted,  with  the 
warmest  hues,  this  region  of  literary  felicity,  of  a 
small,  happy  society  formed  of  critics  and  authors ! 
The  minister,  who  was  ever  considering  things  in 
that  particular  aspect  which  might  tend  to  his  own 
glorv',  instantly  asked  Boisrobert,  whether  this 
private  meeting  would  not  like  to  be  constituted 
a  public  body,  and  establish  itself  by  letters  patent, 
offering  them  his  protection.  The  flatterer  of  the 
minister  was  overjoyed,  and  executed  the  impor- 
tant mission  ;  but  not  one  of  the  members  shared 
in  the  rapture,  while  some  regretted  an  honour 
which  would  onl^  disturb  the  sweetness  and 
familiarity  of  their  intercourse.  Malleville,  whose 
master  was  a  priv)ner  in  the  Bastile,  and  Serisay, 
the  inttndant  of  the  Duke  of  Kochefoucault,  who 
was  in  disgrace  at  court,  loudly  protested,  in  the 
style  of  an  opposition  party,  against  the  protection 
of  the  minister ;  but  Chapelain,  who  was  known 
to  ha%*c  no  party-interest^,  arguetl  so  clearly,  that 
he  left  them  to  infer  that  Richelieu's  offer  v/m  a 
tommamt;  that  the  cardinal  was  a  minister  who 
willed  not  things  by  halves  ;  and  was  one  ot  those 
very  great  men  who  avenge  any  contempt  shown 
to  them,  even  on  such  little  ifien  as  them>elvc^ ! 
In  a  word,  the  dogs  bowed  their  necks  to  the 
golden  collar.  However,  the  appearance,  if  not 
the  reality,  of  freedom  was  left  to  them  ;  and  the 
minister  allowed  them  to  frame  their  own  con- 
stitution, and  elect  their  own  magistrates  and 
citizens  in  this  infant  and  illustrious  republic  of 
literature.  The  history  of  the  further  establish- 
ment of  the  French  Academv  is  elegantly  narrated 
by  Pelisson.  The  usual  difficulty  occurred  of 
fixing  on  a  title ;  and  they  appear  to  have  changed 
it  so  often,  that  the  academy  was  at  first  addresiied 
by  more  than  one  title :  Academie  det  beaux 
Espriti  ;  Academic  dt  V Eloquence ;  Academic  Emi- 
nente,  in  allusion  to  the  quality  of  the  Cardinal, 
its  protector.  Desirous  of  avoiding  the  extravagant 
and  mystifying  titles  of  the  Italian  academies,* 
they  fixed  on  the  most  unaffected,  "  L'/lcadimit 
Fran^aiu}"  but  though  the  national  genius  may 
disguise  itself  for  a  moment,  it  cannot  be  entirely 
got  rid  of,  and  they  assumed  a  vaunting  device  of 
a  laurel  wreath,  including  their  epigraph  '*  a  I'Im- 
mortality."  The  Academy  of  St.  Petersburg  has 
chosen  a  more  enlightened  inscription,  Paulatim 
("  little  by  little,")  so  expressive  of  the  great 
labours  of  man,  e>'en  of  the  inventions  of  genius ! 

Such  was  the  origin  of  L'Acad:^mis  Fhan^aise; 
it  was  long  a  private  meeting  before  it  became  a 
public  institution.  Yet,  like  the  Royal  Society, 
Its  origin  has  been  attributed  to  political  motives, 
with  a  view  to  divert  the  attention  from  popular 
discontents ;  but  when  we  look  into  the  real 
ori^n  of  the  French  Academy,  and  our  Royal 
Society,  it  must  be  granted,  that  if  the  government 
either  in  France  or  England  ever  entertained  this 
project,  it  came  to  them  so  accidentally  that  at 
least  we  cannot  allow  them  the  merit  of  profound 
in%'ention.  Statesmen  are  often  considered  by 
speculative  men  in  their  closets  to  be  mightier 
wonder-workers  than  they  often  prove  to  be. 

Were  the  origin  of  the  Royal  Society  inquired 


*  See  an  article  ••  On  the  ridiculous  titles  assumed 
by  the  Italian  Academies,"  in  this  volume. 


JJO 


A.V  EXOLISH  ACADEMY  OF  LITERATURE. 


inlo,  it  mijtbt  be  jiully  diled  a  century  hriorr  ita 
eiHlmrc ;  Ibe  rsl  fouchln  wu  Lord  BKon.  vho 
planned  the  UUtit  innitMlhit  \a  hi^  philowphkil 
mnince  ■>(  tbc  New  Atlinlh )  Thn  nollDn  >i  not 
(jncifnl,  anil  it  *»  Ihu  of  In  tint  bnimlen,  lu 
lot  nnly  appcm  br  the  cip 


<l  ol  (lie 
Alihrwch 


'  aide  are  tiupendcd  nu 


Ibyluiuccciun. 

I  A,c  civJL  van  had  cihaoned 


occupied  Ihcir  rercriei.  II  chaiuiedihe  Unry oC 
CowU'v  and  RCUIon  I  but  Ibe  pnlilin  and  rdipon 
of  the  liRinn'Re  MiHpnmgeithy  theiame  freniy. 
and  divinity  and  ptdilici  were  nnanimon-dv  ajpenl 
to  be  niturly  brmcribcd  from  Ibeir  iniuirii'a.  (In 
the  ^iiject  of  relifiion  llicy  were  more  particiUirh- 


lay  Ibe  foundjlton  of  an  Kn({liih,  Scotch.  Iriih. 

or  HtMixn."  A  curknu  pnteM  of  the  rmM 
iUnaitinui  of  pbiliiHipbera  may  be  tound :  when 
"  the  Society  lor  Protnotini;  ChrMkan  Knowledge  '* 

One  of  them  ii.  that  "  It  ii 

the  mcicty  not  to  meddle 

itwon  H,  thai  ve  may  give  Hocca^bn  tvreiiewtu 

bodiet  ID  meddle  wHh  in."    Newton  would  not 

ei-en  comply  with  their  wbht  '      ' 

pILince  IhE  Royal  Society  mir 

of  otbcT  rellgioni.'*    The  «bd 


iety  afterwardi  derived  ita  lirle  fmm  a  lort  of 

idrnl.    The  ■■arm  loyalty  of  Eveli  n  in  ilic  Urn 

hopefid  djyi  of  ibe  Restoration,  in  bn  dvdicjitnr>' 

pblloiopbicil  Rieelinel'HE  RovAL  SociETT.  Tlw 
lenTned  men  immcdiatelv  vntcd  (heir  ihanki  lo 
Breh-n  (or  the  bappv  dn^^iulion,  which  wai  » 
enlefnl  to  Cbaites  ll.i  who  wai  himiclf  a  i  inuaiia 
of  that  dav,  and  the  charter  wat  tnon  granted  :  tiK 
kinfc  dccfaiinK  hinvielf  their  founder. "  aeni  Ihem 
a  mace  of  rilver  gill,  of  the  ume  faahion  aod 
bi^eaiaa  ilune  carried  belbre  hit  mayeiiy.  to  be 
borne  tiefdre  Ibe  imident  on  merlin^  days."  To 
Ilie  Ecal  of  Erefvn  (he  Roial  Society  owr  no 
inferior  acqui<iiidn  to  Iti  litie  and  iu  mace :  the 
noble  Arundelian  library',  the  rare  literary  accu- 
mulalioiu  Df  Ibe  nobk  Howards ;  the  last  posCDOr 
of  which  had  »  liltle  IncLirulion  for  books  Ibat 

at  the  merer  of  any  one.    "niia  degenerate  beir  to 

perfectly  relieeed  wlien  EiTlyn  sent  hit  marblci 


dcrper  Intemtt  could  we  peiKlratc  lo  in  vcivt 
hiircn- :  it  waa  intermpled,  and  -uHercd  to  expire, 
hy  lonK  obwure  caiue  of  political  jealoun'.  Ii 
IMK  ceued  to  exist,  ami  ms  only  Rinlated  alniDil 
in  inir  own  dayi.    The  rjtlval  of  teaming  under 


itirfy  those 

prevrre  the  Ro>'al  Society  from  the  pa&ioDi  of " 

Cfdlese  a  tmall  philosophical  dub  met  ttwether. 
wbkB  proved  to  he,  H  Aiibtev  nprcain  11,  the 
mniulitiU  of  Ibe  Royal  Society.  W^en  Ihe  mem- 
ben  trtn  dripcrwd  aboul  iJmdDii,  Ibey  mewed 
their  mcelinp  Um  at  a  raicm.  then  at  a  iifivatc 
houv  :  and  nhen  t1>e  srviety  bi-came  too  ^jt  to 


wik  or  rtieir  |«enii».  lo 


le  Auliquirita'  Colle(!e." 


'.'('"  IM7"X 


}'■.:.'•:]'.•  nth  '<!  rl.:^  N  'Mmii''it,  li^)^,  l.nn.'. 
A!  >.  M.i.-*  '.i'.\\',  it  II  <l  the  » i<M  k«.'  in  ilic  ilffr- 
n  "nr,  wSero  ycmr  (■piiinioiiii  m  wrMm-ic  «ir 
oibtTwiac  it  cxp^xicil. 

"  The  Illicit  inn  is 

"Of  the  -inti'iiiitic.  ctimolopc,  .ind  pri\iU*iljji."» 
of  parishes  in  En;^l.iiidc. 

"Yl  vsilc*>rdl  that  you  pi\e  not  notiti:  hcrfcif 
loanj,  Hut  such  as  h,iuc  the  like  vimfm<." 

Socb  i«  the  summoiu ;  the  incmr>r.inila  in  tho 
kndwriting  of  Stowe  are  these  : 

[630.  HonmiuA  Kom.inii»,  Archt>i9hope  of  Can- 
brbunr,  dciiticil  his  province  into  puruhes :  ho 
Mtlinnrtl  clerks  and  prechars,  rom.iundin-,:  them 
that  tbc>-  should  instruct  the  people,  m  vicll  by 
Bsnd  hfc,  a^  hy  doctryne. 

760.  Cuthhert,  ArchbvMiope  of  Canterbury,  pro- 
cowl  of  the  Pope  that  in  cities  and  towncii  there 
iboald  he  appoynted  church  \ard'«fi>r  bunall  of 
the  dead,  «ho«  boJie)  were  UM:d  to  be  buncd 
abrodc,  &  cet.]. 

Their  meetings  had  hitherto  been  private  ;  but 

to  pye  stability  to  them,  they  petitioned  for  a 

diaiter  of  incorporation,  under  tnc  title  of  The 

itddtmy  fvr  tht  Study  t^f  Antiquity  and   History 

ftMnJfd  by  Queen  FJtuabtth.    Ami  to  prev:r\e  ail 

the  memonals  of  history  which  the  dissiilution  of 

ibe  monasteries  had  scattered  about  the  kingdom, 

tfaey  [proposed  to  erect  a  hbrary,  to  be  called  "  'I  he 

Librvybf  Queen  Eli/abeth."    The  death  of  the 

qoecn  overturned  this  honcurable  project.     The 

VKidy  MtM  hcmewhat  interrupted  by  the  UMt.il 

cyuilties  of   hun:an    life;    the    memlieii  weie 

diipetsefl,  or  died,  and  it  «  cased  for  twenty  \car». 

^p.'lnijn,  Camtlen,  and  otlicr^,  fk^irdus  ot  reiio- 

fatinu;  the  »ociLty,  met  for  thn  purpo^e   at    tlic 

Hcrjlii's  pflTicc;    they   ^ctrled    their    njiulations, 

iiRont;  which,  one  wa-«  "for    a\<]iilni);  oMcuie, 

lbc>-*tinuM  nvithrr  meddle  ^ith  m.itter%  of  ^talc 

nor  rflijpdu."    "  But  bcl«jre  (.ur  next   meeting," 

^M  S|icim.in,  "  we  had  iiotite  that  his  niaje^t) 

took  J  imU  miilike  oj    our   iticuiy,  not    l>ein.i{ 

I  informed  thjt  we  had  re*<olved  lo  decline  all  iiiat> 

I  'crt  of  state.    Yet  hereupon  we  forlx^re  to  mix-t 

^an,  jDd  Hi  all  our  labour's  UnX !"     IJnouestion- 

•ii^y  much  wa«  Imt,  for  much  could  have  t»een 

pfHJiiced;    and   ^pelm^n's  work    on    law-tenm, 

vbrre  1  hnd  (hit  lutormation,  wan  f)ne  of  the  first 

ptVH^ctc«l.    James  I.  has  incurred  the  ceniure  of 

tboK  who  have  written  more  boldly  than  Spelman 

<>n  the  suppression  of  this  society ;    but  whether 

Jjmcs  was  misinformed  by  "takin};  a  little  mis- 

l>ke,"  or  whether  th«  antiquaries  failed  in  exerting 

tbciTiKlves  to  open  their  plan  more  clearly  to  that 

"timid  pedant,"  an  Gough  and  others  designate 

(his  monarch,   may  yet  be  doubtful ;    assuredly 

James  was  not  a  man  to  contemn  tlieir  erudition  ! 

The  king  at  this  time  was  busied  hy  furthering 

)  similar   project,   which  was   to  found  "  King 

James's  College  at  Chelsea ;"  a  project  originating 

*itb  Dean  KutclilT,  and  zealously  approved  by 

Prince  Henr> ,  to  raise  a  nursery  for  young  polemic's 

>D  vrlioLi«ttc'al  divinity,  for  the  purpose  of^  defend- 

■n<  the  Frcttestant  cause  from  tlie  attacks  of  Catho- 

IiC4  ami  sectaries ;  a  college  which  was  alterwards 

called  hy  Laud  *'  Contru\-ersy  College."     In  this 

*<Kicty  were  appointed  hbtonans  and  antiquaries, 

for  Cainden  and  Haywood  filled  these  ofliccs. 


II;-.  >  I.-.:-.  'I  Ai.r.  ,1.  .r '. «,  1.  ■.•.■:\<:.  '  .■  .:  . 
••iil'pr.  x-vti,  V.  •.-  ji.rii  ij^  IK  \  «r  <Miiu  :  ■  it  >  i>!\  n  ■  ii 
in  '•I'liic  >li  .{H*  iimlir  C'lurlo-*  II.,  Icr  Asliiiifilc  iii 
lii^  III  ir\  niitici-s  "The  .\ntii|u  lri^.^"  fta^i,"  .in  will 
as  "  The  A>tn)lo-4i  r^',"  .iiul  .nuithcr  nl  the  "  Krtr- 
inavins'."  Tlie  prcM  nt  si'iiet\  w  i>  »'iil\  iiu<ir- 
(Nirttcil  in  1751.  There  .irc  two  ^et^  of  their 
Meiiuiir* ;  fi>r  lM•»lll^•^  the  innilern  Jrihjtli'yiii,  wc 
ha\etwo  voiiiim-^ol  "  t'urn-iix  DiM'mir-i-s,"  wnilcu 
by  the  i-ather^  <it  tlie  Anti(|ti  iri.ui  S«H-K-ty  in  the 
.li^e  (if  Kh/.ibeili,  ccillritnl  Imin  their  ii)»|KrM:(i 
m.inuMTiplx,  wiiik'h  Caindcit  prc.tcricd  with  a 
p.trental  hand. 

The  philosophical  *pirit  of  the  a;.:e,  it  mi^ht 
have  Ihtcii  expeiTcd,  wniilii  h.iie  rcirhcil  cur 
modern  aiitii|uaiies ;  bur  neither  prniouml  mcw", 
nor  elociucnt  dl^q\ll«l1l'ln^,  h.i\e  luiparti'd  that 
value  to  their  Cf)nliiied  reM:arches  ami  l.tn^uitl 
elIort<«,  which  the  cli.irat  ter  nt  the  linies,  aiul  the 
excellence  of  <»ur  French  Ti\aN  in  their  "Aca- 
demie,"  v)  pcreiiiptorili  required.  II  is,  however, 
h(iiH.lul  to  he.ir  Mr.  Hall.un  deiiare,  "  I  think 
our  l.Lst  \(iliiines  iinprote  a  little,  and  but  a  litile  ! 
A  compariMin  with  the  Acailemy  of  Inv riptums 
in  Its  better  days  must  still  inspire  us  with 
shame." 

Ainnng  the  statures  of  the  Society  of  Antiqunnes, 
there  i-*  one  which  exiK-ls  an>  nunilK.r  "wlio 
shall  by  »pe.iking,  writing,  or  printini;,  puhlulv 
defame  the  «ociety."  Some  things  mi>  be  tMi 
antique  and  obMjlcte  even  for  the  .StKic-rv  ol  Aiili- 
f]uarKi '  and  mu  h  is  tlii>  \  ile  reMnctuin  *  SIk  ulil 
there  be  a  .stray  wit  aimni:  them,  i-r  a  cri'ii-tl 
ohsemr,  are  they  to  iiitiipriiiiife  the  fu -.di'm  dl 
the  Kptiblicnl  leltelN,  III  lite  iiikik  |'i:IimiI'.^  >|iiiit 
ot    (Mellliue    (ti|o '>|.ill|ii-  11: 1  vs    inu    altlll'Uli. '>    tn 

then  w^>rk^     and  lUeir  "  i;<."vle>  "" 


Qiun'A'rioN. 

It  is  generally  supposed  llmt  wliere  there  i-s  no 
•ji'orA I Ui.N,  there  will  l>e  found  ino>t  «itii;Mi.ilil\  ; 
and  a>  i>eople  like  to  lay  out  their  iiione)  aeiordiii^ 
to  their  notions,  our  writers  tisu  ill>  Uiriiinh  their 
p.ig(*:i  rapidly  with  the  priNluetuiiiN  of  their  own 
•soil :  they  run  up  a  (]uickset  heilge,  or  plant  a 
p<jplar,  aiitl  get  trees  and  hcdgi-^  of  this  fashion 
much  f.Lstcr  than  the  icriiier  laiuilords  procured 
their  timber.  The  greater  p.irt  of  rur  writers,  in 
coiutequence,  have  become  s<i  onizmal,  that  no 
one  cares  to  imitate  them  ;  and  those  who  ne\er 
quote,  in  return  are  ne\er  quoted  ! 

Tins  IS  one  of  the  rcNults  ol  that  adventurous 
spirit  now  walking  forth  and  raging  lor  its  own 
innovations.  We  have  not  only  rejected  Ai:Tiiuiii  1  n  , 
but  have  alM)  cast  aw.iy  KXPEiiiF.Ncit. ;  and  ntten 
the  unhurt hened  vessel  IS  druing  to  all  pf.intiof 
the  compa<<s,  and  the  pasnengers  no  longer  know 
whither  they  are  going.  The  wi>clom  ol  the  wise, 
and  the  experience  ol  ages,  may  be  pre9er\ed  bv 

yi'OTATION. 

It  M.*em»,  however,  agreed,  th.it  no  one  would 
fluote  if  he  coiihl  think;  and  it  is  not  imai>ined 
tiiat  the  wril-re.ul  may  quote  lr<im  the  deiic.icy 
of  their  taite,  anil  the  Julness  oi  their  kimwledne. 
Whale* er  is  felicitously  exprcvicd  rf^k>  liMiig  wor>e 
expressed  I    it  is  a  wretched  t.iMe  to  be  gratiheil 


wDuJcl  not  viljingty  tcccpt  *ri 


i4TdK'  et  Kt  compof^  a  Spcct jlor  which  wu  nol 

n  thov  Ihrct  Iblio  miniucnpt  voJumo  vhtch  ht 
luil  pntiouily  «dl«ied  ;  uHl  AiMnon  Utn.  ubih: 
Stcdc*  vho  ilw'>«  wrote  (rom  tint  impTEtbons 
inil  tu  Ihc  tunct,  wilb  periupt  no  vcn-  inferior 
RcniH^  hx^  puKd  iwiy,  inwmuch  that  Dr  Bcattic 


ition,  lilu  much   better   lhinir%  hit   iti 

I'lgnntproA'Icnmiui  be  consigned  to  the  be*dlei 
erf  rriiicitm.    Such  do  not  ilwflji  underAind  the 

on.  from  the  Ihinl  or  the  Ihlnietb  luod. 
TboMf  who  iriut  la  inch  fiLv  ^uoten  will  often 
k4m  how  contrvy  tbii  trarwnifWHi  i^  10  the  vnae 
■ml  applK'tion  of  tht  origiul.  Cvcrr  mi»' 
plintatioB  hu  iJtered  the  rmil  at  the  tree  1  ci-er)' 

move  from  the  ^nng^«L  Biyk,  when  writing 
Oil  "Cometr^"  ducovvml  this;  fi>r  having  col- 
lecied  martf  things  ippjicjibie  to  hu  work,  u  they 


^(en,  rrom  innocent  blundering,  ind  himclime 
from  puipoKd  dmption,  hid  uisihed  iheirquo 
tjiions  I    Thu  11  AU  uicfui  tiory  fi^  Kcoadtuin 


»«..«».  mulOpUfd  u^th^' 

icept  Prj'nne,  Ih^n  tht 


me  but  tbemtelii-ei.  In  borrowing  *  puoge.  they 
anHiilly  obscne  ill  canneiiini  ;  Ibey  colled 
ulhoniiett  to  reconcile   iny  di^iuit>'  in  tbem 

1 11  tuipected  he  dcaii  much  in  BE^condbaad  ware. 
Uy-k  leu  lu  into  A  myatery  of  iuIhor<nA. 
'  Suppose  «n  4ble  nun  b  to  prove  tlul  An  ucKnt 
luEhfir  cntenaioeil  crrtun  pAiticuUr  opiniou, 
rhjch  ire  only  insiniuled  here  ud  Ihrrr  ibmigb 


vin^  once  loond  out  bis  lulboriiies  And  his 


gencfaliHiig  principles ;  those  birdVcye  vi 
phii<K>phy  lor  the  nafrfr  artm  as  if  thing 


Til':  '  Lf  if\    "J'  /'.I  V/7  '.^-  /.v/ 


t'.«u-,  .^  f.r,.v  ',v|,o  !  .:■'  tlic   ni;r.ir...:-.i  nl   :!ic  uit  o: 
rthcr  T.cu ;    he  v.  irc!)c^  \Wj..rc   knowlciuc    i^  to 
betouuJ;  and   thr.ugb  he  may  not  hiinsclt  excel 
in  invetiiion,  his  inecnuity  may  compose  one  of , 
tboK  aiSTtcablc  bonk«,  the  Jelicice  of  literature, 
tbtf  viU  outlast  the  fading  meteors  of   his  day.  ' 
^licurus  it  said  to  have  bontmcd  notliing  from  i 
mf  other  writer  in  hi*  three  hundred   inspired  i 
mbune^  while  Plutarch,  Seneca,  and  the  elder 
Kojrnude  such  free  use  of  their  libraries;  and 
it  US  happened  that  Epicurus  with  liis  unsub< 
tetial  nothingne«,  has  "  melted  into  thin  air," 
while  the  solid  treasures  have  buoyed  themselves 
Mf  uaidit  the  wrecks  of  nations. 

On  this  subject  of  ytiOTATios,  literary'  politics, 

fir  the  commonwealth    has    its    policy  and  its 

dUnet-secrets,  is  more  concerned  than  the  reader 

wpeds.    Authorities  in  matters  of  fact  are  often 

tailed  fcr;  in  matters  of  opinion,  indeed,  which, 

perhaps,  are  of  more  importance,  no  one  requires 

ajr  anthori^'.      But  too  open  and  generous  a 

icvd^on  or  the  chapter  and  the  page  of  the 

wigiiul  quoted,  has  often  proved  detrimental  to 

Ihe  iKitimatc  honours  of  the  quoter.    lliey  arc 

nbiriy  appropriated   by   the   next   comer;    the 

•pwter  is  never  quoted,' but  the  authority  he  has 

>&nW  b  produced   by  his  surce»or  with  the 

<>r  of  in  original  research.     I    have    seen   mss. 

thiB  confidently  referred   to,  which  could  never 

J*«  met  the   eye   of  the   writer.    A   learned 

woriaB  declared  to  me  of  a  contemporary,  that 

•he  latter  had  appropriated   his   researches;   he 

Bught,  indeed,  and  he  had  a  right  to  ref;.'r  to  the 

suDe  originals ;  but  if  his  predece««)r  h^d  o|>eiied 

Uk  sources  for  him,  gratitude  istnot  a  silent  \  irtue. 

Gilbert  Stuart  thus  lived  on  Robertson :   and  as 

Jrofes'OT  Dugald  Stewart  observes,  *'  his  curiosity 

ius  seldom  led   bim   into  any  path  where  the 

pnhis  and  industry  of  his  predecessor  had  not  pre- 

riously  cleared  the  way."    It  is  for  this  reason  some 

Mrtwn,  who  do  not  care  to  trust  to  the  e<iuit* 

nd  gratitude  of  their  successors,  will  not  furni4) 

the  means  of  supplanting  themselves ;  for,  by  not 

TKlding  up    their  autliorities,    they    thcm^elvcs 

Kcome  one.    Some  authors,  who  are  pleased  in 

Krii^  their  names  occur  in  the  margms  of  other 

books  than  their  own,  have  practised  this  {wlitical 

nunagement;   such  as  Alexander  ah  Alexandro, 

*nd  other  compilers  of  that  stamp,  to  whuM:  labours 

of  mall  value,  we  are  often  obliged  to  refer,  from 

the  circumstance  that  they  themselves  have  not 

poiolcd  out  their  aut!ioriti«. 

One  word  more  on  this  long  chapter  of  quota- 
TiOM.  To  make  a  happy  one  is  a  thing  not  e.isily 
to  be  done.  Cardinal  dti  Perron  used  to  say,  that 
the  happy  application  of  a  verse  from  Virgil  wav 
worth  a  talent ;  and  Bayle,  perhaps  too  much 
ptcposKssed  in  their  favour,  has  iaMnuated,  that 
there  is  not  less  invention  in  a  just  and  happy 
application  of  a  thought  found  in  a  b«x>k,  than 
in  bnng  the  fint  author  of  that  thought.  The 
vt  M  quotation  requires  more  delicacy  in  the 
practice  than  those  conceive  who  omu  sec  nothing 
moie  in  a  quotation  than  an  extract.  Whenever 
the  mind  of  a  writer  is  saturated  with  the  full 
huj^ration  of  a  great  author,  a  quotation  gi%es 
coro^etenesi  to  the  whole;  it  seals  his  feelings 
with  andispated  authorit}-.  Or  whene%-er  we 
I  woold  prepare  die  mind  by  a  forcible  appeal,  an 


'!;-i  r.!:i-4  ',i.(.' iT.mi'.  in  .i  »-,Ti.[t'i;\  ]<'.*  l.  ;.  :  ■■:. 
the  ch'>tiK  uliice  tonc^  u«.  ,ire  .ilici.t  t«.  i.  ir- 
nic'uiM.*.  Pcrh.ips  no  \vritei«>  nl  our  tunes  l.«\e 
disco\ered  more  of  tiiis  delic.tcy  of  ijuoritinn  th.m 
the  author  (if  the  *' Pursuits  oi  Literature  "  i.nte 
(lid,  and  Mr.  Southcy,  in  Mime  nt  liis  beautilul 
periodical  invest igationji,  wtiere  we  have  ntten 
acknowledged  the  solemn  and  striking  etTect  of 

A   U^'OTATIUN-    FKUM   OL'H   ELDEK   WKITEK5. 


THE  ORIGIN  OF  DANTE'S  INFERNO. 

Nearly  six  centuries  have  elapsed  since  the 
appearance  of  the  gre.tt  work  of  Dante,  and  the 
literary  historians  ol  Italy  arc  e\  en  now  disputing 
respecting  the  origin  of  this  singular  poem,  in  its 
nature  as  its  excellence.  In  ascertaining  a  point 
so  long  iiuiuired  after,  and  m)  keenly  «li^(Aiteil,  it 
will  rather  increase  our  ailinir.ttir.n  than  detract 
from  the  genius  of  this  great  jw^et  ;  and  it  will 
illustrate  the  useful  ptin>i|i|e,  that  even  great 
genius  is  intluenred  by  the  olije.  ts  and  l^ie  feel- 
ings which  occupy-  Ijis  own  tunes  only  dirlcriug 
from  the  race  of  his  brothers  by  the  magical 
force  of  his  dei  elopments ;  the  light  lie  sends 
forth  over  the  world  he  often  catches  fn.m  the 
faint  and  unobserved  spark  which  would  die  away, 
and  turn  to  nothing,  in  another  hand. 

The  Dnnna  Commedia  of  Danie  in  a  visionar>' 
journey  thnuigh  the  three  realms  of  the  after- 
life existence  ;  and  though  in  the  classical  ardour 
ol  our  poetical  pilgrim,  lie  allows  his  conductor 
to  l>c  a  Pagan,  the  scenes  are  those  of  monkish 
imagination.  The  invention  of  a  vision  was  the 
usual  vehicle  for  religious  instruction  in  his  age  ; 
It  was  adapted  to  the  genius  of  the  sleeping  Homer 
of  a  monastery,  and  to  the  comprehension,  and 
even  to  the  faith,  of  tlie  populace,  whose  minds 
were  then  awakened  to  these  awful  themes. 

This  moile  of  writing  \isions  has  been  imper- 
fectly detected  by  several  modern  in(|uirers.  It 
got  into  the  Fabliaux  of  the  Jongleurs,  or  Pn)- 
%*encal  bards,  before  the  da>s  of  Damil;  but  as 
these  visions  or  pilgrimages  to  Hell  tontained  ge- 
nerally ratluT  comic  than  solemn  adventures,  it 
seemed  absurd  to  attribute  the  origin  of  a  sublime 
poem  to  such  lu<Ucr(<us  inventions.  Every  one, 
therefore,  found  out  some  other  origin  of  Dante's 
Inferno— since  they  were  resoUed  to  haie  one- 
in  other  works  more  congenial  to  its  nature ;  the 
descnption  of  a  second  life,  the  melancholy  or  the 
glorified  scene*  of  puni>hinent  or  bliss,  with  the 
animated  shades  of  men  who  were  no  more,  had 
l)een  opened  to  the  Italian  bard  by  his  fa\ourite 
Virgil,  and  might  have  been  suggested,  accordin;^ 
to  Warton,  by  the  Sumnium  Scipionis  ol  Cicero. 

But  the  entire  work  of  Dante  is  Gothic  ;  it  is 
a  picture  of  his  times,  of  his  own  ideas,  of  the 
people  al)out  him  ;  nothing  of  classical  antiquity 
resembles  it ;  and  although  the  name  of  Virgil  is 
intnxluced  into  a  Christian  Hades,  it  is  assuredly 
not  the  Roman,  for  Da.vte's  Virgil  s|)eaks  and  acts 
as  the  Latin  poet  could  ne\er  ha\e  done.  It  is 
one  of  the  absurdities  of  Dante,  who,  like  our 
Shakespeare,  or  like  Gothic  architecture  ilKlf,  has 
many  things  which  "  lead  to  nothing"  amidst  their 
massive  greatness. 


JJ4 


Tilt:  ORIGTX  Of  DAXms  /XFEJIXO. 


l»l  ihc  II 


d  ihciir- 


n  lb» 


Hon.  KiHu^n  11K  vx  waKn  wc  iute  njppiiy  ' 
tiicJ  in  thiicountrjTfOf  ULwaiatingicTulwit 

;h>ch 

UIVil  Ibll    1>ANT>  lllf  boTTOWtd, 


rrftliwf  ind  circumstincci  uhich  v( 


V«> 


»  tKfOK 


.-  whirl 


■nipt  ol  lbi>  VMuB  cf  AlbniL'n,  *nd,  in  tiutf 

idapted  to  inHune  the  i'QnoF4t}' nf  Ihuflc  «N 

owi  in  ilr  (4  cntdilkin  mta  Ibc  mull  lalkcr 

:iUierwiK«iul4canf  titrkJhoiii  ttKOfiitLiul' 

TliB  wu  BUI  tlK  tint  time  that  Ibe  whole  nhlia 
niiubjd  hnn  thidtennl  bi'  Ihc  mcHHUdlj 

jte  eanbqudke ;  hiit  in  Ibrv  ««*  it  ihuiU; 

hippciu  IhM  IhiTWrii  iliH-oicRnnliDunjiu^p 
'  -  HtDe  pin, an:  in  tnuU  hHmlne4«hni  Ibrj 

Ell  to  bu-c  Mtkd  on  Ihe  Uunh  oT  Ujxn: 


True  it  \  tbu  DiNtt  mint  lui-e  Rid  wiih 
ennal  iu«miua  ind  di.'hBM  Ibii  latbcnlic  i-um 
or  Albcncoi  fiir  it  ii  B'*'en, »  we  are  HHiKd  liy 
the  vhoLe  nuHuttery,  i*  it  happened  to  Ihelr  an- 
--il  hiDtlKT.  when  a  hny ;  many  ■  nrikinjb  and 
ira  podtivenKmbldce  inihe'lHiiniCam- 
lii  "  hai  been  pointed  onl  i  and  Nr.  Citi',  in 
his  Ennlisb  tenion  of  Uiini.  ■>  Engliita,  that  be 


h»  hcen  ascenaiiKd  that  ALberito  «»  •titten  ii 
Ibetwelllbcenlnn.  flie  ue  oT  ■  mmuvripl  i 
jud^  Inr  tbe  wnllBir.  I  diiU  now  imnene  i 
tiwn  wbich  a  FKnih  anik|uan^  b#l  Ions  ai^ 
lliicn,  with  the  ilnlitn  la  ihow  bow  thevabu-e* 
Ibe  iim|iJii;ilv  oT  t.ur  Colliic  nccMort,  but  witi 


were  mcixly  ~a  ^-ehii^lc  for  priputar  mttruc- 
nnr  mint  we  depend  on  tbe  ^e  Df  Iheir 
■sitinnhy  the  namenidhemippoiililioiuii- 
cs  airmcil  In  Ihcm  i  they  wne  the  utim  nl 

ato.   The  following  eiahoiaie  tie«i  o(  imne 

1e  negkcl  of  theii  e^inipal  dulio  wai  pun- 
n  Ibc  allrr-Ule  1  with  the  feudal  nobility  for 


"  I,  Charles,  hj'  itie  gramilam  ^h  of  God,  king 
of  Ihc  (Germans  homan  palTici-in,  and  likewise 

"  Un  Ibe  boljr  ni^  of  jiuoday,  baring  per- 

isv  hed  to  den,  a  yoke  nKM  lerrible  came  to  my 
ear  I  •Cbaikir  tbyipiiit  shall  now  iunefminihr 
body ;  tliDH  Shalt  fft  and  bchoM  Ibe  judgments  of 

tl^  ipirit  s^l  ag^n  return  sbonly  aflerwanU/ 
liMintly  was  my  spirit  l?pl,  and  he  whn  bore  me 

He  put  inlo  my  hand  a  ball  of  thread,  which  shed 


on  the  thumb  of  thy  riuht  haiKl,  and  l^~  this  I 
will  lead  tbce  through  die  iDknul  labvtintbi  of 

"Tlii;n  going  before  me  wiih  rclocity,  but  alway* 
unwindhig  this  lamin«ks  thread,  he  ennducled 
me  into  d«p  valleys  AUed  with  (ires,  and  wcJls  in- 
tIaiiKd,  blaitail  <s'lth  all  Mits  of  untlnoiu  miller. 
Tbeie  I  observed  Ibe  pielatcs  who  had  seni-d  ny 
father  and  my  ancestors.  Althou^  1  trembled,  ] 
ilill,  however,  inquned  of  Ibem  lo  learn  the  cause 
of  their  rormeou.  Thev  answered,  '  We  are  tbe 
bishopsof  )'ODrf4thcr anil  four  anccdoni  instead 
of  unilii^  Aem  and  their  people  in  peace  and 


owhtchit  Kjawritten.    -Ilii 
Ihe  gnit  poet,  that  the  wril 


-   - -.  iSghl  tW 

ci  tlK   ibmd.  These' 


IV  ascertain  Ibe  age  of  tliesi 
1  duublk»  they  will  he  faun< 
cf  Alherico,  for  they  are  alik< 


AC  sulphureosis  pit* ;  W 

Dubird    tturad,  drawing 
force,  Uut  we  ascended 


the  same  dcpih  of  feeling,  the  solitary  genius  of  I  — 
Ihe  nwnasIeT}  1  I 


\ 


j!6      OF  A  IIISTORT  OF  EVF.STS  WHICH  HAVE  SOT  HAPPEKKD. 


might  cnljrg?  our  |Ei:1h:taL  tK'W>  i>1  bun 
fiul  u^it  our  cumprvbention  of  thoK  vxi 


Some  moRiU  bjK  Kicnllr  uritun  b»tai>'.  aii 

HiiK  CunUianty  unrh  Uw  dnij^EU  o<  Prmidcncc, 

AutbonltA.  Brcri'  piirt>  dacDifn  lo  the  ctcnb 
vliKh  ii  brvi  wciT  aiKvfie  to  tiKir  D«n  uuk 
but  Itnallr  tcnnhutc  m  thor  Uvvur,  that  fn^ 
I  RlRin  bid  iiicd  a  pccnlur  jiid  p^nicuLit  inict- 
fernm :  thn  »  ■  ioiin:e*or  bunuD  errur,  and 

3«cr   the  ikfttiiclton   of  the  kinifitom  nd' 


cnpiiminlintonifpn 

liich   njtf  bot  bapfici 


iiTc  lud  1  brighter 
ign  uh]  the  roy>linB  tud  prwql 


ibly  be  vould 


the  d^rk  iduLtfrous  bigotry  of  tb^t  hood- 
ed |>«i|ik.  >ut  a  pmcMui  Kill  not  »ai- 
«  «iih  ibc  leehiiKi  ct  the  louit ;  ja  the 


pm-iilcd  AiiuHtf  Cmiljn: 
^ibiiibed  bjr  ipilitHiuli  of 
!>,"^■hlch»totheyif^attiaed. 


proi^MleiKes,"   axt\  tj 


n  lU  the  mitrortoEtcs 


H,  for  t,  puticular  purpose,  have  loi 
Dot  lu|>pen-    A  hntoTy  of  this  kind 


VDUIdhave 


hate  thHkcd  thar  pwio 

konan 

■raim  at   Ihal 

'  penetrate  into  the  m^  '  d 


ncatajy  panic  ai  the  hi^  ioccca  vhicbhad 
^  I  probably  Allepded  aIcudJct  In  bu  deiccnt  into 


4t  tirikinglyeacniplifybow  mutb  he 


OF  A  HISTORY  OP  EVKSTS  WHICH  HAVE  SOT  HAfPKXED.      jji 


ind  a1  Len^h  potscnnl  the 

wn  raniiuiabfd  "by  CluTl 
hat  hiinibk  but  gkirious 


for  the  n.miirt  oT^ 
1  IpTCul  into  AfHcjl 


enjoyment  of  bit  dukedom*  piwided  that  he  heJd 

and  Hvirice,  Eude  wlopted  a  Kheme  which 
Chntiiaity  iUFlf,  u  well  u  Kurope,  Into  i 
of  peril  which  lut  bc^'ct  nnce  occurred 
nunying  a  dmflhler  with  i  HAhomet&n  en...,  _, 
mhly  htaa  ut  intercoune  with  Ihe  bhrrucUtei, 
one  of  wBoK  firnnrite  ptojecu  wu,  la  p* 
rbrmidahle  cohHijr  of  their  l^th  In  Fnncc 


hvercd  what  wfl  of  workmen  hi 


hlached  the  duke  fnHnhiifiitiliilliiincc.    But: 
md   hid   reached  Toun  by   Ihe  lii-er  Loi: 


tcrriried,  and  the  magnificence  asFonifbed-  Charla, 
coDcclinff  hit  far  Inferior  Ibrco,  aanired  tfacra  that 
they  had  na  other  Pnnce  than  Ihe  ipot  they 
covered.  He  had  ordered  Ihal  the  city  of  Toun 
■hould  be  cWted  on  every  FierKhman,  unles  he 
entered  II  ¥iccorlDiu  i  and  he  took  care  that  every 

m^rn iTannei,  whom  he  ^iccd  lo  witch  at  the 

The  attonished  Mahometan  bdield  his  bactalioiu 
dcfeaied  ai  he  urged  Ihem  on  tingly  to  the  Frerich, 

a>  an  Immolation  to  Ibeir  mother-countrv.    Bade 

he  bad  iacnrted,  with  denenle  valour,  taking 

leaf.    The  camp  of  the  Nihometan  wai  iorcedi 

the  abrieica  of  hh  women  and  children  reached 

him  from  amhht  the  manacrc  7  terrlfiedf  he  hw 

hia  mullilude  ahaken.    Charkt,  who  beheld  the 

light   breaking  through  thn  dark  cloud  of  men, 

exclaimed  to  hia  countrymen,  "  My  friendi,  Qod 

haaraivd  biibinrwTiandtheonbelierenperiah!" 

"^1  maaa  oF  Uk  Saraccm.  though  broken,  could 

fly  i  their  own  multitude  preaaed  tbeimelvet 

ither,  and  the  Chriatian  tword  mowed  dow  n 

Mihometana.     Abderam  wa*  found  dcid  In 

lat  heap,  unwounded.  atifted  by  hiaownmulti- 


lecond  Invasion  proved  all 


of  the  moat  Important  et'cnti  which  haapaneu: 
but  that  of  an  event  which  did  not  happen,  would 

Habouietan  power  triumphed  T  The  HahorrkeUD 
domiDion   had  predominated   through    Europe  1 

much  dejicodcd  on  thb  invaijon,  at  a  time  when 
balance  of  power  in  one  common  tie  of  con- 
had  bclbre  made  the  MaborrKlana  wrcrcigni  of 


rill  hod  now  been,  t 
iTfaana,  combed  our 

than  the  Credan.whil 


"'o™i't£( 


irorea  how  very  nearly  lome  important  eventa 
rblch  have  taken  place,  ml^bl  not  have  happened! 
trairacribe  the  paaaage  Itbiii  hia  ibineenth  book. 
'Cnar  (die  Emperor  Cluiic*  V.)  alter  he  had 
ina  aa  hearing  in  the  Diet  of  Wonni  to  Martin 


Id  have  been  eaay,  by 

mi,  or  proTiding  for  ^■— 


terrifviiu;  Luther,  but  they  were  not  lal 
they  haainMlted  him  i  and  with  auch  a  I 


jje      OF  A  HISTORY  OF  EVENTS  WHICH  HAVE  NOT  HAPPENED. 


unchrifiiui  lib  of  Ehh  polytheiitica]  CbrutUn,  in 
adoption  (he  new  faith  n  a  ttup  titsi^  xaA  bv 
iniMinE  Ibc  rhurth  vilh   IcmpDol   poi 
wblch  Dante  m  indlniuuy  " —     —      " 


IN.  be  foui 


victon' '  SL  Remi  found  no  ililliculty  in  peniud' 
iiHt  Cloiis  afler  Ihe  Ihnunalc  eitnt,  In  adopl  Ihc 
Chriillin  cmd.  Milkal  tuniu  fen  •mnc  time 
iii4|ienilnl  the  kin^*4  ofien  cimterdoa,  till  the 
Fnnki  foltoved  Uieit  amrerrign  la  Ihe  bwtiiEru] 
fiianhk  AccnnKB)(  tn  ?iM]uii.T,  Njude,  vtA  Mhrr 
politiL'al  urnlen,  Ihe  mir^ki*  wbkh  are  recDTdecU 

uithoiiK  the  ctunfe  oT  irli^n,  whit'b  wai  uvd 

pcttrprincflhltiMi^houniaihJ.hkeCuulanline. 
Clovis  wUicd  by  ctimei  of  ••  dark  i  die,  obtained 
Ihe  tillc  of  "the  <iieat."      Had  not  tbc  mat 


•  For  sojpeMlahf  tint 
tlie  C<thoUc  Ward,  i 
«.™  of  "  Bn^lndl  . 


ten  cmim  Fbilip  for  t«*Uiiig  the  Dokc  oT 
1  from  the  NetherUDda.  Acaedine  to  IbcK 
mpuisg  nord,  and  tbc 


Ttain  oT  accomptivhiDe  the  f 

cur — Ihc  ^ril  nf  C-tlholiciaiT 


d'  r,  and  the  Endiib  Caiholtn  fonneil  a  connler- 
iL  e  pottHm   of  thv   nalioTi — we   migfat   now   be 

duntiolubLy  a  B-onderful  chftqge  had  opcnled  rra 

balanced,  if  not  preponderated,  ottt  the  {^tbolic 
inlRvat;  and  Autria,  which  anpearcd  a  iOft  of 
DnJTcna]   monarchy,  had  Ken  her  eagles  wii^ 


Ihc  kin^i"  ami,  ppviliiy,  hare  prod 
n  of  popular   feeling?      The   AiTd 


6;i^i»!'i 


:e  vith  Spain  had  pmetved  the  I 
.  .  enriched  Ihe  cammenial  indu 
England,  and.  ihme  all.  had  chnrked  ih. 


IK  the  Freiuh  HngurTHira  in  their 

ef  hu™C^™-d"D*  S"i™i^- 
Tthrrw  the  desipi,  bui  ii  beliT'ed 


OF  FALSK  POLITICAL  SEPOSTS. 


from  the  Mourji'  ^A  th^  Pmurli  nvolulion ! 

mc  another  f  urtoa.  sketch  of  i  humy  V  rvtra. 

fvm  hHtorUn*  th^  the  death  of  Lorenm  dc 
Medici  vas  M  TnatlcrarindilTemcv  to  the  provperlt) 
or  Italy}  ai  "he  eooU  not  have  prcrented  thi 
diAerent  prnyecU  which  hid  been  malufed  in  Ihf 

lulyi  andlhcRrDnbcconcludeithalallhiitcaHaiE 
are  nniitakca  who  bct(o«  on  Lorenzo  the  honoui 
of  having  piQCTTcd  Jhe  price  of  Italy,  beriiue  the 
(Creit  invailoii  that  overwew  it  djd  not  take  place 


Lorenzo  de'  Medic 


k^loiied.  *'Thoiigh 


Oun  of  lt*ly,  or  Ibat  ci 


Tendering  the  FJorentine  fHTreasa.     Hb  fami^ 


Europe  aa  Lorenio  de*  Medi    . 
praducfaa  nich  a  chance  m  ii>  politici 

u  miHt  nave  varkd  them  in   an  ii — 

degree,-  pignott)  Uta  dscrlbs  the  HaM  of  Italy. 
Hap  Lorenao  Ihred  to  htvt  teen  hit  KHi  ekvatcd  to 
the  papacy,  thii  hblorian,  adopting  oar  pmenF 
princiirie,  exchirnt,  **  A  happy  m  for  Italy  and 
TnBcany  hap  iheh  occuaaiD  1    On  thit  head  vc 


re  the  hiitoriea  of 


Scota,"  that  cuTiona  writer  thua  ipcculatei  in  r' 

vai  made  upon  Elizahelh't  dying  without  inu  , 
the  Counts  of  fihKwsbury  had  hf  r  wn  pnrpoieLy 
reakding  Ln  London,  with  two  good  and  aliJc  bonei 

of  the  Hck  EDzabetb'a  death  to  the  imptiwni 
Marr.    On  thia  Ihe  hinariin  rhnTrvea, "  And  hi 


iin  Tuthntv,  from  Shellield. 
'ilh  a  Dcnlle  and  masterly  band  thi 


othert  hare  happened  which  may  be  traced  to 


of  Medida,  an  adept  in  ccup/  J'rtjl,  Ihe  arcana 
imffwtif  Between  iolid  lying  and  di^guiied  iTi>th 
there  ii  a  ditTcTence  known  to  writer)  ikilk-d  in 

them ;"  aa  poMtica,  ill  UDdentDCHl,  hate  been  de- 
fined, and  ai  are  all  parly ^litics.  Thive  Cnrgera 
prefer  la  uic  the  Inith  onji^uiied,  to  the  rtdb 
bcdon,     Wfaea   the  real   Irulb  can   no   longer 

for  th<7  can  itiU  explain  and  ohAcnn:.  while 
— .yaccurv  on  their  tide  the  parry  who«  cauv 
th^  bare  adrocated,  A  curious  reader  of  hia- 
' — -  may  diacover  Ihe  tcmporarv  and  lonwtiiriea 
lulling  advantagea  of  ipreiding  rumnun  de- 
igned tn  dl^gulte,  or  to  counteracL  the  real  state 
of  Ihingi,  Such  reports,  let  a  G^lng;  sc-rfe  10 
break  down  the  sharp  and  fatal  pMnI  of  i  pank, 
■nhicb  might  inslantlv  occnrg  m  Ihh  wav  Ihe 
jublic  is  laied  fmm  ihehnrmnof  eonsfeTnarlrHi, 
ind  Ihe  itupefaction  of  despair,    Theae  rumuurs 

d  that  is  doled  out  cautionslvj  and.  as  mi^hl  be 
bown.  in  inme  caaet  these  n'rst  reports  have  kfi 
in  event  in  so  ambiguous  a  slate,  1h;i1  a  dnuhl 
mw  itiJI  arise  whether  Ihese  iTpons  were  reallv 

diapute  the  rictsry  af^  Ibe  event,  and  ItK  pen 


OF  FALSE  POLITICAL  P.F.POItTS. 

iwonl  tuil  long  dcchlct- 1  i 


vera!  of  (he  jitoK  Importukt  lunki  on  wliich  (he  I  h^ 
irports  Df  (he  (imt.  wc  migh( 

feat  concealed  In  an  account 

pcHou^i  aLwm  irni  hi 


inies  or  conceaJetl  iU'Wishers;  nordid  the  report 
neaily  di^leue  the  court  of  whitcbalL.  wbcrr 

limidily,  hajt  it«  degree  or  apprehenuoiu  for  fear 

Leamt  from  good  autboiity.  tmpiAed  ^tence  on 


certain;  imqiuMLonahlytfKkliawLfllgtfDf (hndis- 

(ninivTTV,"  and  Ihe  Huctiuiing  reporlj  probably 
mmU(ed  by  tbdr  de^lgiti. 

important  event  In  modem  hifton-,  where  we  may 

or  inpprcvliig  the  real  fact.  Tliit  wu  the  lamDui 
hiuk  of  the  Boyoe.    The  French  Cathnllc  pany 

batHe,  and  that  u'lllUm  III,  wa>  kiUed.    Boxy 

to  have  TeEJKered  pnblk  event}  without  ktu- 
tiniiing  their  tnilh,  uyi.  "I  chronicled  Ihii  ac- 
cauni  according  u  the  firM  repma  nvc  out : 
when  «  length  the  real  fact  reached  them,  the 


recorded  (h 


ID  ibcir  day  xiacgeiy  disgui^  b 

a  (cmpofan-  purpov.  but  which  had  never  bcea 

been  published.    A  report  was  prevalent  In  Hoi- 

and  the  Duke  of  Alva  were  dead ;  a  felicitr  wni^ 
for  a  time  luatained  (he  nhiua(cd  jipirib  of  the 

fti'rcwi,  and  other  liMruments  of  tnrture.  widch 
the  Spanlardi  had  bnught  with  thnn»  which  id- 
tlainvd  Ibe  hatred  of  the  natiMk-  The  horrid  itoty 


the^-  Hill  kept  possos 

■I  (he  fortunate  rrwmeni  when  v 

leacuen:  and  thcv  gave  nut  Cil 
number  oFvicloriB  iVev  had  ete- 


le  Beporlanf  every  ipecJO.  Noeniravagmce 
of  iDven(iDn  to  fpread  a  terror  agaliui  ■  pany  wa> 
(DO  groia»  and  the  cttv  ot  London  wai  otk  day 

ed  that  the  royaliHa  were  occupied  by  ■ 


f'F  .-up]'i:i:>snt:<  aM)  i>/LArfj>Ar"f:y  "/•  MAsi-.^cnn- r. 


41 


j'i  .n   1.1!     IjIiiu  iii'^    lip    the    ri\cr    Tli.tmtrs,    by    an 
;nnn;cnv:  iju_ntity  ol  powder  warcliouMrd  at  the 
river  <>ide ;    and   th.U  there  existed  an  organised 
though  invisible  brotherhood  of  many  thouvind^ 
vith  consecrated  knei.'tt ;  and  those  who  hesitated 
to  give  credit  to  such  rumours  were  branded  as 
inaJi{;pant5,  who  took  not  the  dan^ser  of  the  par* 
bunent  to  heart.     Forged  conspiracies  and  re- 
ports ti  f^at  but  distant  victories  were  in-.'en- 
tioiB  to  keep  up  the  spirit  of  a  party,  but  oftener 
prognosticated  some  intended  change  in  the  go* 
Tcmment.     When  they  were  desirvtis  of   :iug- 
xnenting  the  army,  or  introducing  new  garrisons, 
or  oung  an  extreme  measure  w^ith  the  citv.  or 
the  TD>-alists«  tlicre  was  alway-  a  new  conspiracy 
set  afloat;  or  when  any  great  afliair  was  to  be 
carried  in  pariiament,  kttcrs  of  great  victories 
were  published  to  dishearten  tlie  opposition,  and 
mfuse  additional  boldness  m  their  own  party.    If 
the  report  lasted  onlv  a  few  days,  it  obtained  its 
purpose,  and  veritieci  the  observation  of  Catha- 
noe  of  Medicb.    Those  politicians  who  raise  such 
bbe  reports  obtain  their  end  :  like  the  architect, 
wtw,  in  building  an  arch,  supports  it  with  circular 
props  and  pieces  d  timber,  or  any  temporary  rub- 
br4i,  till  he  cl.ises  the  arch,  and  makes  it  support 
itself,  and  then  he  throws  away  the  props  1    There 
is  no  class  of  political  lying  which  can  want  for 
iUostrotion    if  we  consult    tlicse  records  of  our 
cnil  wan ;  there  we  may  trace  the  whole  art  in 
ail  die  nice  management  of  its  sliadcs,  its  qua- 
lities, and  it::  more  complicate  part^,  from  in* 
vcctive  to  puff,  and  inuendo  to  prevarication  \  we 
may  admire  that  scrupulous  correction  of  a  lie 
which  they  had  U.ld,  by  another  which  they  are 
telling!    and  single  to  triple   lying  to  overreach 
their  opponents*     Royal'ts's  and  Paritamentirians 
were  alike ;   for,  to  tell  one  great  truth,  *'  the 
fatfter  of  lies  "  is  of  nc  partv  ! 

As  **  nothing  is  new  un^er  the  sun,"  so  this  art 
of  deceiving  tnc  public  was  unquestionably  prac- 
tised among  the  ancients.  Syphax  sent  Scipio 
word  that  he  ccukl  not  unite  with  the*  Romans, 
but,  on  the  contrary,  had  declared  for  the  Car- 
thaginians. The  Roman  army  were  then  anxiously 
waiting;  f^r  his  expected  succours :  Scipio  was 
careful  to  show  the  utmost  civility  to  these  ambas- 
sadon,  and  ostentatiously  treated  them  with  pre- 
sents, that  hb  soldiers  mie^t  belie\-e  they  were 
only  returning  to  hasten  the  army  of  Syphax  to 
join  the  Romans.  Livy  censures  the  Roman  consul, 
who,  after  the  defeat  at  Cannc,  tcld  the  deputies  of 
the  allies  the  whole  km  they  had  susUined :  **  This 
consul,"  says  Livy,  "by  giving  too  faithful  and 
open  an  account  of  hb  defeat,  made  both  himself 
and  bto  army  appear  still  more  contemptible." 
Tlie  result  of  the  simplicity  )f  the  consul  for 
telling  the  truth  was,  tnat  the  allies,  despairing 
that  me  Romans  would  ever  rrco\'er  their  losses, 
deemed  it  proper  to  make  terms  with  Hannibal. 
Plutarch  tells  an  amu^ng  stoi^,  in  hb  way,  of  the 
natural  progress  of  a  report,  which  was  contrary  to 
the  wishes  of  the  ^emment ;  the  unhappy  re- 
porter suflfiered  punishment  as  long  as  the  rumour 
lasted,  though  at  last  it  proved  true.  A  stranger 
landing  from  Sicily,  at  a  barber's  dhop  delivered 
all  tlK-  particulars  of  the  defeat  of  the  Athenians; 
of  which,  however,  the  people  were  yet  unin- 
fanned.     Tbe  barber  leaves  untrimmed  the  re- 


p<!rtcr\  li'Mfil,  .md  tiits.iu.iv  loNfut  t!.<i:vu-  in 
tljc  city,  where  he  tt.ld  the  Arvhciiis  wli  it  he  h  td 
heard.  The  whrdc  city  \^a^  thrnwn  into  a  fer- 
ment. The  Archons  called  an  avcmbly  of  the 
people,  and  produced  the  lucklesu  bar^>ef,  who  in 
hb  confusion  could  not  give  any  satisfactory  ac- 
count of  the  first  rep«>rter.  He  was  condeinned 
OS  a  spreader  of  false  news,  and  a  disturber  of  the 
public  quiet;  for  the  Athenians  could  not  imagine 
that  they  were  not  invincible  1  The  barber  was 
dragged  to  the  wheel  and  tortured,  till  the  dis- 
aster was  more  than  confirmed.  Bayle,  referring 
to  this  story,  obsen-es,  that  had  the  barber  re- 
ported a  victory,  though  it  had  proved  to  be  false, 
he  would  not  have  l)een  punished ;  a  shrewd 
obscr\'ation,  which  occurred  to  him  by  the  dif- 
ferent fate  of  Stratocles.  This  person  persuaded 
the  Athenians  to  perform  a  public  sacrifice  and 
tliank^iving  for  a  ^  ictory  obtained  at  sea,  though 
he  well  knew  at  the  time  that  the  Athenian  fleet 
hod  been  totally  defeated.  When  the  calamity 
could  no  longer  be  concealed,  the  people  charged 
him  with  being  an  impoMor ;  hut  Stratocles  saved 
his  life  and  mollitied  their  anger  by  the  pleasant 
turn  he  gave  to  the  whole  allair.  "  Have  I  done 
you  any  mjur\'  ?"  said  he.  "  Is  it  not  owing  to 
me  that  you  have  spent  three  da\-s  in  the  plea- 
sures of  victory  ?"  I  think  that  this  spreader  of 
good,  but  fictitious  news,  should  have  occupied 
the  wheel  ol  the  luckless  barber,  who  had  spread 
bad  but  tnie  news ;  for  the  barber  had  no  inten- 
tion of  deception,  but  Stratocles  had ;  and  the 
uuesrion  here  to  be  tried,  was  not  the  truth  or 
the  falsity  of  the  reports,  but  whether  the  re- 
porters intended  to  deceive  their  fellows-citizens. 
TI1C  "  Chronicle  "  and  the  "  Post "  must  be  chal- 
lenged on  such  a  jury,  and  all  the  race  of  news- 
scribes,  whom  Patin  characterizes  as  hominum 
genuj  audacusimum  mendacuiimum  (fuidusimum. 
Latin  superlatives  are  too  rich  to  sutler  a  trans- 
lation. But  what  Patin  says  in  his  letter  356 
may  Inr  applied:  *' These  writers  insert  in  tlieir 
papers  things  they  do  not  know,  and  ought  not 
to  write.  It  is  the  s.tme  trick  that  is  playing 
which  was  formerly  played ;  it  is  the  very  same 
farce,  only  it  is  exhibited  by  new  actors.  The 
worst  circumstance,  1  think,  in  this,  is,  that  this 
trick  will  continue  playing  a  long  cour<«  of  years, 
and  that  the  public  suffer  a  great  deal  too  much 
by  It." 


OP    SUPPRESSORS    AND    DILAPIDATORS    OP 
MANUSCRIPTS. 

Manuscripts  are  suppressed  or  destroyed  from 
motives  which  require  to  be  noticed.  Plagiarists, 
at  least,  have  the  merit  of  presen-ation :  they  may 
blush  at  their  artifices,  and  deserve  the  pillory,  but 
their  practices  do  not  incur  the  capital  crime  of 
felony.  Serassi,  the  writer  of  the  curious  life  of 
T.tsso,  was  guilty  of  an  extraordinary  suppression 
in  his  zeal  for  the  poet's  memorj'.  The  story 
remains  to  be  told,  for  it  is  little  known. 

Galileo,  in  early  life,  was  a  lecturer  at  the 
university  of  Rsa  :  delighting  in  poetical  studies, 
and  then  more  of  a  critic  than  a  philosopher,  he 
had  Ariosto  by  heart.  This  great  man  caught  the 
literary  mania  which  broke  out  about  his  time. 


342       OF  SUPPRESSORS  AXP  DILAPIDATORS  OF  MASUSCRrPTS. 


when  the  Cruaram  k>  absurdly  began  their  "  Con- 
troversie  Tassesche,"  and  ntiKd  up  two  poetical 
factions,  which  infected  the  Italians  with  a  national 
fever.  Ta«K)  and  Ariosto  were  perpet n:dly  weighed 
and  utweighed  against  each  other ;  Galileo  wrote 
annotations  on  Tasao,  stanza  after  stanxa,  and 
without  reserve,  treating  the  majestic  bard  with  a 
severity  which  must  have  thrown  the  Tassotsts 
into  an  agony.  Our  critic  lent  his  manuscript  to 
Jacopo  Mazzoni,  who  probably  being  a  disguised 
Tas&oist,  by  some  unaccountable  means  contrived 
that  the  manuscript  should  be  absolutely  lost ! — 
to  the  deep  regret  of  the  author  and  all  the 
Ariostoists.  The  philosopher  descended  to  his 
grave — not  without  occasional  groans — nor  without 
exulting  reminiscences  of  the  blows  he  had  in  his 
youth  inHicted  on  the  great  rival  of  Ariosto— and 
the  rumour  of  such  a  work  long  floated  on  tradi* 
tion  *  Two  centuries  had  nearly  elapsed,  when 
8eras.M,  employed  on  his  elaborate  life  of  Tasso, 
among  his  uninterrupted  researchis  in  the  public 
libraries  of  Rome,  discovered  a  miscellaneous 
volume,  in  which,  on  a  cursory  examination,  he 
found  deposited  the  lost  rnaniiscript  of  Galileo! 
It  w.is  a  shock  from  whi.  M,  pc-rhaps,  the  zealous 
biographer  of  Ta<i?o  never  fairly  recovered  (  the 
awml  name  of  Galilro  sanctioned  that  asperity  of 
critical  decision,  and  more  particularly  on  the 
language  ;  a  subject  on  which  the  Italians  are  so 
morbidly  delicate,  and  so  trivially  grave.  Seras^i's 
conduit  on  this  occasion  was  at  once  Dolitical, 
timorous,  and  cunning.  Gladly  would  ne  have 
annihilated  the  original,  but  this  was  impossible  ! 
It  was  some  consolation  that  the  manuscript  was 
totally  unknown— for  having  got  mixed  w^ith 
others,  it  had  accidentally  been  pitssed  over.-and 
not  entered  into  the  catalogue ;  his  own  diligent 
eye  only  had  detected  its  existence.  "  Seuuno  Jin 
ora  ta,fuori  di  mt,  le  n/i  tia  ne  ittn-e  tia^  e  cosi  nen 
potrh  ituni  alia  luce,"  &c.  But  in  the  true  spirit 
of  a  collector,  avaricious  of  all  things  connected 
With  his  pursuits,  Se^;ls^i  cautiously,  but  com- 
pletely, transcribed  the  precious  manuscript,  with 
an  intention,  according  to  his  memorandum,  to 
unravel  all  its  v>phistry.  However,  although  the 
Abbate  never  wanted  leisure,  he  persevered  in  his 
silence ;  yet  he  often  trembled  lest  some  future 
explorer  of  manuscripts  might  be  found  as  sharp- 
sighted  as  himsielf.  He  was  so  cautioas  as  not 
even  to  venture  to  note  down  the  library  where 
the  manuscript  was  to  be  found,  and  to  this  day 
no  one  appears  to  have  fallen  on  the  volume  !  On 
the  death  of  Serashi,  his  papers  came  to  the  hands 
of  the  Duke  of  Ceri,  a  lover  of  literature ;  the 
transcript  of  the  vet  undiscovered  original  was 
then  revealed  !  ana  this  secret  history  of  the  manu- 
script was  drawn  from  a  note  on  the  title-page 
w^ritten  by  Serassi  himself  I  To  satisfy  the  ui^-nt 
curiosity  .f  the  literati,  these  annotations  on  Tasiso 
by  Galileo  were  published  in  1793.  Here  is  a 
work,  which,  from  its  earliest  stage,  much  pams 
had  been  taken  to  supprcM ;  but  Serarai's  collect- 
ing passion  inducing  him  to  preserx'c  what  he 
himself  so  much  wished  should  never  appear, 
finally  occasioned  its  publication  !  It  adds  one 
evidence  to  the  many,  which  pro\'e  that  such 
sinister  practices  have  been  frcc]uently  used  by 
the  historians  of  a  part>'»  poetic  or  politic. 
Unquestionably  this  entire  suppression  of  manu- 


scripts ha.n  been  too  frequently  practiaed.  It  ii 
suspected!  that  our  historical  antiqiiarv  Speed  owed 
many  obligations  to  the  learned  Hogn  Btwigblaa, 
for  he  poflKSAed  a  vast  number  of  hit  mss.  wbick 
he  burnt.  Why  did  he  bum  ?  If  pcnont  place 
themselves  in  suspicious  situatiom,  tbey  miac  not 
comphun  If  they  be  suspected.  We  hare  bad 
historians  who,  whenever  they  met  with  infonu- 
tion  which  has  not  suited  their  historical  ntfoi, 
or  their  inveterate  prejudices,  have  em^lo^is- 
terpolations,  castrations,  and  forgeries  and  in  icmk 
cases  have  annihilated  the  entire  docamesL 
Leland's  invaluable  manuscripts  were  left  at  bii 
death  in  the  confused  state  in  which  the  moi  of 
the  writer  had  sunk,  overcome  by  his  mcoait 
labours,  when  this  royal  antiquary  was  emphmd 
yb  Henry  VIII.  to  write  our  national  antiquiM 
His  scattered  manuscripts  were  long  a  cooinoa 
prey  to  many  who  never  acknowlei^ed  thdr 
fountain-bead ;  among  these  suppressors  and  dilr 
pidators  pre-eminently  stands  the  crafty  Italia 
Polydore  Vergil,  who  not  only  drew  lar|^lv  fnn 
this  source,  but,  to  cover  the  robbery-,  ^id  Ml 
omit  to  dei'rcciate  the  father  of  our  antiquities— « 
act  of  a  piece  with  the  character  of  the  man,  «bo 
is  said  to  have  collected  and  burnt  a  gitslcr 
number  of  historical  mss.  than  would  have  maded 
a  waggon,  to  prevent  the  detection  of  his  numeraas 
fabrications  in  his  histosy  of  England,  compoaed  to 
gratify  Mary  and  the  Catholic  cause. 

The  Harleian  manuscript,  7379,  is  a  coflectioo 
of  state-letters.  This  ms.  has  four  leaves  entindjr 
torn  out,  and  is  accompanied  by  this  extraordinary 
memorandum,  signed  by  the  principal  librarian. 

**  Upon  examination  of  this  book,  Nov.  la,  17^ 
theae  four  la&t  leaves  were  torn  out. 

"  C  Morton. 

"  Mem.  Nov.  la,  sent  down  to  Mrs.  Macaulav." 

As  no  memorandum  of  the  name  of  any  student 
to  whom  a  manuscript  is  delivered  for  his  re* 
searches  was  ever  made  before  or  since,  or  in  the 
nature  of  things  will  ever  be,  this  memorandum 
must  involve  our  female  hiMorian  in  the  obloquy 
uf  this  dilapiilation.*  Such  di9hone^t  practicis 
of  party  feeling,  indeed,  are  not  peculiar  to  any 
party.  In  Mr.  Koscoe's  interesting  "  Illustrations  " 
of  his  life  of  Lorenzo  de*  Medici,  we  discover  that 
Fabroni,  whoM  character  scarcely  admits  of  sus- 
picion, appears  to  have  known  of  the  existence  of 
an  unpublished  krtter  of  Sixtus  I\'.,  which  in* 

*  It  is  now  about  twenty-seven  >'ean  ago  (1824) 
that  I  tint  published  this  anecdote,  at  the  same 
time  that  I  had  received  information  that  our 
female  historian  and  dilapidator  had  acted  in  this 
manner  more  than  once.  Such  a  rumour,  how- 
ever, it  was  impossible  to  authenticate  at  that 
distance  of  time,  but  it  was  at  least  notorious  at 
the  British  Museum.  The  Rev.  William  Graham, 
the  surviving  husband  of  Mrn.  Macaulay,  intem- 
perately  called  on  Dr.  Morton,  in  a  ver}'  advanced 
period  of  life,  to  declare,  that  **  it  appeared  to  him 
that  the  note  does  not  contain  any  exidence  that 
the  leaves  were  torn  out  by  Mrs.  Macauby."  It 
was  mure  apparent  to  the  unprejudiced,  tlut  the 
doctor  must  ha\e  singularly  lost  the  use  of  hb 
memory,  when  he  could  not  explain  hb  own 
official  note,  which,  perhaps,  at  the  time  be  was 
compelkd  to  insert. 


OF  SUPPRESSORS  AND  DTLAPIDATORS  OF  MANITFCSIPTS.       j4j 


c  hart  l«I  impnrtant  tnilha^  while  in  somf 
by  intcfpoUtiDiis,  ve  have  brvn  loaded 
^ic  (iciiora  of  ■  vany.  OrigiiuL  mcnwJT^ 
■ubiiihed,  ibontJ  now  be  JepMiled  al  thai 

timet.  Jn  Lord  Herhcrt'i  tiiatory  of  Hcarf  1h< 
EWilh,  I  find,  by  »  manuKiiol  note,  that  Merji 
thingi  wen  not  pcnnitted  Is  be  prinKd,  inil  Ihal 
the  DTiginaL  hi.  was  supposed  lo  be  m  Mr 
Sbeldoo'i  ciutodv,  io  16B7.     Camdn    toJd  Sii 


ceiled  1n>  hii  rilence.    Mr.  Rvnie  hu  ab)v  de- 
fended nbroplt  who  nuy  bire  CHtriooked  tbii 

thii 

a;: 


not  tikeli'  lo  bitve  occur 
laboTkiut  hbtorlcal  biqairr 

ins  hiMoncal  productioo  bu  been  •Hcntir  inalhi' 
laird  by  (he  CDiHcDI  of  Uih  ftrili:  Then  once 
exbted  tn  important  diary  cf  ■  veiy  extraordinary 


dined  locoMidrrlbeauDntoflhelittle  boot  be  leFI 
ofManimsuidRcAectiont."  with  aphlUwDhi 

tempt  all  the  factkom  of  bit  timet,  and.  con 

Among  other  thingt.  the  Marqiiii  of  Halifax  t 
DoteU  down  the  convenatioru  he  bad  bad  w 
ctiarla  the  Second,  and  the  great  and  buty  d 
racien  of  (he  age^    Of  tbb  curiout  tecret  biitory 


Inped ;  and  tl 
fTKnd.wbow 
hi»  paitv.  ttM  Re*o] 

liwJ  mean  and  dtab ,. 

rbne  Ir^in  of  bonourable  men.  i 
paity  tbey  I —  ""■  *•■ ■  ■■■ 


if  a  noble 
ninglhat 


bnpe  of  po4enty  h 
Oil  millEnily.  oC  Ihi 

afterward  the  Raii 

tide  to  Dr.  Dougia".  biahov  of  SaJL^hurv.  ED  be 
fompoted  by  the  hltbop ;  but  hit  lordship's  heir, 

iiderabJe  tKt.  A  French  canon,  Claude  Joly.  a 
bold  and  learned  writer,  had  hniihed  an  ample 
life  of  Rrumut.  which  included  a  history  oC  die 

the  worki  of  Uraimilt  seven  times  ;  wr  hai-e  positirc 


sent  these  eipurealed  paiiaees  ID  De  Thoii,  *l 
printed  them  laitlirully.    Millon,  in  composing  t 


find  )( reititutcd  In  Kennetfi  Collection  nf  Engliih 
HiitDriet.  This  admirable  and  eiu|uisite  dclinra- 
lion  hat  been  preserved  by  a  pamphlet  in  1681, 
which  hailbrrunatcly  ehhibitcd  one  of  (he  warmett 
viCluret  In  dengn  and  colouring  by  a    master^ 

•ecret  history,  "  WTiilelocke^  WemoHab."  was 
puhLiibed  by  Arthur,  Batl  of  Anglesey,  in  1681, 
who  took  considerable  llhertiea  with  the  manu- 
tcrlpt ;  another  edition  appealed  in  17J1,  which 
restored  the  many  important  pas(a^(ts  through 


leing  unaccmnunicd  by  a  «ogle  line  of  preface  to 

dition.  the  booktellen  imagine  that  there  can  be 
lO  nuterial  tUflneoce  between  the  two  editicMis 
nd  wonder  at  the  tHtilioffical  mystery  that  they 
an  aflbrd  to  sell  the   edition  of   (Wa   at   ten 

.■story  uiualiy  on  a  sofa,  with  the  epicurean  indo- 

truncated  and  faithless  edition  of  whiteiocke— so 
Je  in  his  day  did  the  critical  history  of  bookt 
ter  into  their  snidle).  or  such  was  tlic  carelets- 

.    """  .  _^.!™*.  P  J  ™     .  "  "*  '"IStiilly 


344 


or  srj>/'/:L\<<uj:.-  a.\i>  i>ii.Ai'irfAT()Rs  of  masi'^kIUI'Ts. 


A**  an  cxanijiif  lit  I  he  '■ujiprv  ^^<  >ts  jiid  ilii  .i'.>l.itor-> 
ol   manuM'njits,  I  sh.iU   m\c  .m  t  xtr.iorilm  iry  l;ut 
concerning  Louis  XIV.  more  in  liis  l.ivf»ur.     His 
character  appears,  like  some  other  historical  per- 
sonages, equally  disguised  hy  adulation  and  ca- 
lumny.     That  monarch  was  not  the  Nero  which 
his  re\'ocation  of  the  edict  of  Nantes  made  him 
seem  to  the  French  Protestants.    He  was  far  from 
approving  of  the  violent  measures  of  his  Catholic 
clergy.    'Phis  opinion  of  that  sovereign  was,  how- 
ever, carefully  suppressed  when  his  "  Instructions 
to  the  Dauphin  "  were  lirst  published.    It  is  now 
ascertained  that  Louis  XIV.  was  for  many  years 
equally  zealous  and    industrious :     and,  among 
otner  useful    attempts,    composed    an    elaborate 
'*  Discours  "  for  the  dauphin  for  his  future  conduct. 
The  king  gave  his  manuscript  to  Pelisson  to  re- 
vise ;    but  after  the   revision,  our    royal   writer 
frequently  iiucrted  additional  paragraphs.     The 
work  first  appeared  in  an  anonymous  "Recueil 
d'Opuscules  Littcraires,  Amsterdam,  1767,"  which 
Barbicr,  in  his  "  Anonymes,"  tells  us,  was  "  rcdige 
par  Pclisson ;  le  tout  public  par  I'Abbo  Olivet." 
When  at  length  the  printed  work  was  collated 
with  the  manuscript  original,  several  suppressions 
of  the  royal  sentiments  appeared,  and  the  editors, 
too  Catholic,  had,  with  more  particular  caution, 
thrown  aside  what  clcarlv  showed  Louis  XIV.  was 
far  from  approving  of  tne  violences  used  against 
the  Protestants.    The  following  passage  was  en- 
tirely omitted.    "  It  seems  to  me,  my  son,  that 
those  who  employ  extreme  and  violent  remedies 
do  not  know  the  nature  of  the  evil,  occa-sioned  in 
part,  by  heated  minds,  which,  left  to  themselves, 
would  msensibly  be  extinguished,  rather  than  re- 
kindle them  afresh  by  the  force  of  contradiction  ; 
above  all,  when  the  corruption  is  not  confined  to 
a  small  number,  but  ditFwted  through  all  parts  of 
the  state ;  besides,  the  Reformers  said  manv  true 
things  !     The  best  method  to  have  reduced  little 
by  little  the  Huguenots  of  my  kingdom,  was  not 
to  have  pursued  them    by  any   direct    severity 
pointed  at  them." 

Lady  Mary  Wortlcy  Montagu  is  a  remarkable 
instance  of  an  author  nearly  lost  to  the  nation; 
she  is  only  known  to  posterity  by  a  chance  publi- 
cation, for  such  were  her  faniious  Turkish  letters ; 
the  manuscript  of  which  her  family  once  purchased 
with  an  intention  to  suppress,  but  they  were 
frustrated  by  a  transcript.  The  more  recent  letters 
were  reluctantly  extracted  out  of  the  family  trunks, 
and  surrendered  in  exchange  for  certain  family 
documents  which  had  fallen  into  the  hands  of  a 
bookseller.  Had  it  depended  on  her  relatives,  the 
name  of  Lady  Mary  had  only  reached  us  in  the 
satires  of  Pope.  The  greater  part  of  her  epistolary 
correspondence  was  destroyed  by  her  mother ;  and 
what  that  good  and  Gothic  lady  spared,  was  sup- 
pressed by  that  hereditary  austerity  of  rank,  of 
which  her  family  was  too  susceptible.  The  entire 
correspondence  of  this  admirable  writer,  and  stu- 
dious woman — for  once,  in  perusing  some  unpub- 
lished letters  of  Lady  Mar)',  I  discovered  that  "  she 
had  been  in  the  habit  of  reading  se^-en  houn  a  day 
for  many  years" — would  undoubtedly  have  ex- 
hibited a  hne  statue,  instead  of  the  torso  we  now 
possess ;  and  we  might  have  lived  with  her  lady- 
ship, as  we  do  with  Madame  de  Scvigne.  This  I 
have  mentioned  elsewhere ;  but  1  have  since  du- 


rovcri'il  th.it  .1  coii-iilcralilc  «. nrrr^-jxuul-.-rue  »-t  Lirfv 
M.ir\"s,    tor    tndrc    thin    tv^cnty     \c.ir>,    wuh   ttvr^ 
widow  ol  Col.  Forrester,  who  had  retired  to  Rome-, 
has  been  stiHed  in  the  birth.     Tlicse  letters,  wiiti 
other  Mss.  of  Lady  Mar>'*s,  were  given  by  Mr^. 
Forrester  to  Philip  Thicknc^«e,  with  a  discretionary 
power  to  publish.    They  were  held  as  a  great  ac- 
quisition by  Thicknesse  and  his  bookselicr;  but 
when  they  Had  printed  off  the  tiist  thousand  sheets, 
there  were  parts  which  thry  convdcred  mi^t 
give  pain  to  some  of  the  family.    Tliickne«e  Mys^ 
**  Lady  Mary  had  in  many  places  been  ancnm- 
monly  severe  upon  her  husband,  for  all  her  ktteis 
were  loaded  with  a  scrap  or  two  of  poetxy  at 
him."*     A  negotiation  took  place  with  an  agent 
of  Lord  Bute's — after  some  time  Miss  Forrester  pot 
in  her  claims  for  the  mss. — and  the  whole  termi- 
nated, as  Thicknesse  tells  us,  in  her  obtaining  a 
pension,  and  Lord  Bute  all  the  mss. 

The  late  Duke  of  Bridgewater,  I  am  informed, 
burnt  many  of  the  numerous  family  papers,  and 
bricked  up  a  quantitv,  which,  when  opened  after 
his  death,  were  found  to  have  peri>hed.  It  b  s«d 
he  declared  that  he  did  not  choose  that  ht!i  anc» 
tors  should  be  traced  back  to  a  person  of  a  mean 
trade,  which  it  seems  might  possibly  have  been. 
The  loss  now  cannot  he  appreciated ;'  but  unqoes- 
tionably,  stores  of  histoiy,  and,  (Icrhaps,  of  litera- 
ture, were  sacrificed.  Milton's  manuscript  of 
Comus  was  published  from  the  Bridgewater  collec- 
tion, for  it  had  escaped  the  bricking  up ! 

Manuscripts  of  great  interest  are  frequently  sap- 
pressed  from  the  shameful  indiflfierence  of  the 
possessors. 

Mr.  Mathias,  in  his  Essay  on  Gray,  tells  us,  that 
"  in  addition  to  the  valuable  manuscripts  of  Mr. 
Gray,  there  is  reason  to  think  that  there  weft 
some  other  papers,  foUa  Sibylljt,  in  the  possession 
of  Mr.  Mason;  but  though  a  %'eiT  diligent  and 
anxious  inquiry  has  been  made  after  them,  they 
cannot  be  discovered  since  his  death.  There  was» 
however,  one  fragment,  by  Mr.  Mason's  own 
description  of  it,  of  very  great  value,  namely, 
"  The  plan  of  an  intended  speech  in  Latin  on  his 
appointment  as  Professor  of  Modem  History  in  the 
Unit-ersity  of  Cambridge."  Mr.  Mxwn  sax-s, "  Im- 
mediately' on  his  appointment,  Mr.  Gray  sketched 
out  an  admirable  plan  for  his  inauguration  speech ; 
in  which,  after  enumerating  the  preparatory  and 
auxiliary  studies  requisite,  such  as  ancient  histon*, 
geography,  chronology.  Sec,  he  descended  to  tlie 
authentic  sources  of  the  science,  such  as  public 
treaties,  state-records,  private  correspondence  of 
ambassadors,  &c.  He  also  wrote  the  exordium  of 
this  thesis,  not,  indeed,  so  correct  as  to  be  given  by 
way  of  fragment,  but  so  spirited  in  point  of  senti- 
ment, as  leaves  it  much  to  he  regretted  that  he 
did  not  proceed  to  its  conclusion."  This  fragment 
cannot  now  be  found ;  and  after  so  vcrj'  interesting 
a  description  of  its  value,  and  of  its  iniportance,  it 
is  diflicult  to  conceive  how  Mr.  Mason  could 
prevail  upon  himself  to  withhold  it.  If  there  be  a 
subject  on  which  more,  perhaps,  than  on  any 
other,  it  would  have  been  peculiarly  desirable  to 
know,  and  to  follow  the  train  of  the  ideas  of  Gray, 

*  There  was  one  passage  he  recollected — **  Just 
left  mv  bed  a  lifeless  trunk,  and  scarce  a  dreaming 
head!" 


ii>  hind,  on  rhe  lulijccti  o[  hMotv,  ii 
whicb  hcUmREd  lo  il,  laigkt  tuve  Uastn 
Amgnfta  how  to  conduct  th«F  imponant 

tad  to  bcdi  where  Bcrvcmgn  galU  doth  gmvt." 

I  tujpcci  that  I  cnuld  point  out  the  plice  in 
whicb  these  |ifccioii»  "  toiw  sib)-iiE"  ot  Gny'i 


pidlj'  mUed  the  linpaRniiilr  of  wnw  lnvei»  of 
liUTMUR,  whoK  cuiimty  hu  been  imued  by  the 

i)DenUv  ittendcd  Mo  ml  of  h«|u«o  of  lllenry 
rn,  that  they  hire  left  their  injinu9cr1pt%  iikc 


An  jiiitoh»<^phy  of  tbosc  dtj^  which  we  tbouLti 
po*  highly  piiie. 

Among  Ihne  mutilaton  of  nunn«ript>  we  c^n- 
iwt  Hw  UToaoly  remonatnte  with  tbme  who  hare 

into  a  vehicle  for  Iheir  ovd  potticuljiT  nurpoies, 
et'en  when  they  ma  dlreetly  eounler  tn  the  know- 
ledge and  opinknu  of  the  original  wiiler.    Hird 


Uted  into  Lulini  the  tranilaloT.  a  lullen  do 
fellow,  when  he  otocn-ed  that  Wood  wo  eni 
at  seeing  the  perpelualailerjitiRuof  hiicopyi 
to  pleaK  Dr.  Fell,  delichied  to  alter  it  the  n 

printed  4t«B,  hy"eonixling.  altering,  or  da; 
nnt  what  he  piened,"  compelled  the  writer 

the  lint  Kcounti  of'Mungo  IMk.  Biyaa  Bdwuds 


pact  md  hi<  lurodiu.  She  hid  contrived  lo  pre- 
rent  Ibeit  meeting  at  kme  ai  her  Htalagemt  la«nl, 
till  at  kncth  ihe  apohwlied  to  Ihc  Kiioui  bard  for 
inviliDK  bbn  when  hii  mock  umbra  was  In  be 
present.   Atlorushed,  ihe  perceived  that  both  men 

opposite  talent;  die  ridicaled  had  perceived  no 
malignity  in  Ibe  playfvinesi  of  the  parody,  and 
even  secrned  to  eowidet  it  as  a  compliment,  aware 
that  parodists  do  not  waste  their  talent  on  obscure 
productions;  while  Ihe  ridicnler  binueJIwiis  very 

hom  Ibc  parody  has  been  performed,  have  been 
[the  same  opinion. 
pAKODY  strongly  resembles  tnimicrj,  a  principle 

fiican  \iaf  wtio  aniDsed  the  whole  kalle  he  jour- 
.jved  with,  by  mimickinE  the  geiliires  and  ihe 
i-olce  of  the  auctioneer  who  had  sold  him  it  the 
larket  ■  lew  days  before,  could  hare  had 


Scripture-eiyle :  not 


I  of  the  ative-irade. 


fhich  At  AFricin  tri 


il  was  interpolated  with  many  v 


nil,   particularly   to   our   ua-vanUA    had   Iwr 
idi.  whom  she   etluallr  admired — in   eleganl 


Ihe  biritxy 


Virgil  ^  Scarmn  and  Cotton  \  their  authors 
never  ao  gaily  mad  as  that.  We  have  paro< 
n  the  fsalms  Iw  Luther  j  DnJiley  parodied 


thatjhey^  intended.  The 


lidy-eritic 

lailtc.   Kti  Ak  indeed  proceeded 
and  aflerted  that  pAaooiIs  mi^t  be  cla: 

parodies  as  Colman  and  Ll^d  nude 

her  'leadings  possibly  might  haiG  supplied  the 
materials  oCthe  present  research. 


frequently   piactiied  by   Uii 
.1 111.. 1 nsinci 

:hailge 


Lts,  and  with  them,  like  oi 
rork  grafted  on  another  svori:, 
I  on  a  difleinit  subiect  by  a  si 
of  the  eiprenani.    It  mintat  be  ■  sp 


vu  that  majignani  an  which  only  studies  tn  make 
he  ori^nal of  the  parody,  howcicr  beaut ifuUcon- 
emplible  and  ridiculous-  Human  udiire  thus 
msHioni' 

application. 

I^rte  alter  tragedy,  and  1h^  g1adl>; .     . 

hclnre  the  tragedy,  Ihe  taste  for  panjdy  would  b< 


number  uC  coalcinpiHariix.     In  Ihc  Ui 
PAivMBft.  iDnK  (if  the  IcmKd  lure  notiri: 

W  luppriKij,  lor  it 'm  vtry  luvonl  oik- 


1  ;  Ibem  inia  the  Ham 


tllJIcly  Ibllowed  Inr  another  m 

(boni,  who  iti«le  On;  umc  Aodieiice  mcny  bv  th 

buil^ue  turn  which  th^  give  to  the  »lem 

■nenlinv.  It  h  tamntA  llut  ve  hjxe  ooc  c 
ibnc  ininiin  nT  the  Ilia4  in  one  loudei,  wh 
succeeded  hy  onlv  cban^g  Ihe  nejvire  of  tb 
t«m  vithDul  allerinR  Ac  wonh,  which  cnliTcI 
tHigubed  the  HcHnertc  ehinctef;   ftafrment*  t 

Cmiin.*    Hnaitfi  Ultle  of  1^  Frngi  ind  Hie 


et^idnthru  (Enid' 

r  "  Bitted  Addrevn." 


'     Of  lift  pjiodnn  of  Hoir 


vtHx  nimdja  veir  lernied  Siiii.  hom  s 

belnf  nh-ir  chief  petwitiice  i  he  IcfeHed  Iht 

Ihc  luptaiiiicil  phihuinihen  Df  hit  ace:  hninioc]- 
tion  ii  grafted  on  the  ootnintt  of  Ibe  Iliad,  Id 
RCODnl  Ibe  eiil-doingt  of  IhcM  h^dihten,  whom 


n  the  Sllkngrjph,  which. 


Swilt  •nhri"Billh:  of  BodW  and  "Talcol 
ub  (■•  hul  few  writen  hire  ei|uaned  Ibe  deli 
y  and  frJicitj  oF  Pope't  parodin  in  Ihe  "  ftapt 


of  tbe  Lock."    Such  ju 


■  libenl  tue  or  ii  in  Ihcli 
t   Eltft  uf  ClaudiiH,  inil 


*  Keni?'  Stephens  appears  first  to  hji-e  stailrd 
this  subject  of  pdTs  Jj ;  whose  lesearches  hare  been 


n  the  PrtBch  Acadeni)S  Meir 


a  parodv,  althoui^  II 


Boileau  iflord*  a  happ^'  it 


Ut.'X 


cnliCttthue  opinion  we  bad  Ihe  hooour  of  untieing, 
wnnld  be  w^amnted  bv  amealing  tn  hi  origin  to 
determine  the  nature  M  ibe  thing.  Adrinutic 
parody,  which  produced  tlie  greaMa  dlKI,  wai 
"the  CiganUnnic1ii>,~  u  appean  by  the  only 


I,  the 


the  hudnei*  of  the  dramatic  puody  to  inm  ihi 
solensn  tragedy,  which  the  auJitiKC  hadjosi  seer 

whii  had  appeared  in  magniliccnl  dresses  oow 
rElnrmrd  on  the  stafie  in  Rixrie^ue  habiliments 
wiib  odd  postures  and  gnliires  wNtc  (be  story 

The  C>clops  of  Euripides  is  ptobabiy  the  onlj 
Tvmjinine  specimen ;  for  ihia  rnay  be  cooudem. 
as  a  parody  of  the  ninth  boot  of  IhcOdsBCy — Ihe 


if  Ihc  s 


re  of  ^'l>  phemof. 


man  "fiom  Ihe  < 


•St  with  tl 

r-ej-ed  ogre."    Thcju 


wi".^ 


H(im(f:d  with  hh  ecniiu,  and  an  intcrprctt 
philDKiphical,  the  ftubjnt  of  Oieciin  pjrody  will 
pmbjibly  he  nflecKd  In  i  clcitcr  light  from  his 

Pramjlic  paiodin  in  nwdcrn  Utcraluiv  wei 

he  uid  to  CDitititute  a  clui  of  IHemy  HltTi 


iTlthcr  nilBnUwl  thi 


nUwl  the  dnnvatic  piiiidv  into 
dcdkilcil  m  ii  the   honoun  of  . 


bur1c«qve  of  in 


IKCuliu  ilnnutic  uilre, 

cmm:  Lrjgnit,  Ibv  t'OULlk  RCnil 

iiccam|il>%«l.    Wtaincrn  i  nc 

Ihc  French,  atlnctrd  the  noHcc  of  the  town, 
ihonly  iftcr  uinw  ili  parody  M  Ibe  lUliin 
thealre.  A  Prmrh  tTdnedf  it  mott  MHceptlhleol 
"■ '  -'  -'—tit.  by  ipplying  iU  decumuoiy 


ai^fgaMri  Ki 


to  the  cc 


impudenl  mHtiu-mflhcr ;  hut  il  wai  not  merely 
lhi>  xtiva^  of  KKM  peiionigrfl,  nor  the  lofty 
erlufiont  of  one  in  i  lowly  lUtkin,  which  ler- 
miMlvd  tbc  obfcd  of  parody  i  it  Intended  a  better 
»hj«E»   Ihat  of  mare  obi-iouiiy  eiposhiq  tbc 

catHirophe,  and  dubeciiiu  FjuLly  chancwn ;  in  a 
word,  CTitinUy  weighing  the  nomenie  of  the  poet. 
It  sometimei  became  a  relined  imlnielnr  tot  the 
pnhlic,  whoie  ducetnmcnt  if  often  blinded  by 
party  or  prejudice.  It  vts  twj,  a  teveiB  touch- 
itonr  Irir  gcnin ;  Racine,  lome  aay,  amiled,  othen 
u)  he  did  not,  when  he  wilneved  Harlei|uin,  in 
the  lanipiii^  of  TiluloBcKnin,  declaiming  on 

with  a  cry— from  a  parod;  '  Voltaiie  wai  angiy 
when  he  wiin^HHl  tih  Murmmm  parodied  t>y  La 
"  ~    ^  HouiwepinR :"  the 


ot^ect  igalnft  the   pTotesE  of  La  Motle,  ' 

letqun.    His  celehtaled  dome«ic  tni^y  oi 
de  CaUTo.  the  fable  of  which  lumi  on  a  cnni 

happiesi  paiodief  In  il£nrf  ^  ChMtUt.    Ii 

Pierrot  tbe  ion,  in  perfittin);  lo  refuK  the  hand 
of  ihe  daiighicr  of  hi>  molber-io-law  Madame  U 

Vt  vcnii  einnnei  plw  qu^'ixK  d^n  coMnire) 

VoiUl  I'uniqw  Dinel  dont  ion  c<rui  eil  epris." 
(Pilnl inf  »  jltmi  Ji  CliaUIU. 

and  fa^lidioiu  code  of  French  criticism,  graHLy 
iLDlated  the  maic^yfLf  UclpDmcnr,  by  gkimg  a 
moiii'e  and  an  object  ao  totally  undiRniKed  u,  (be 
'iipc  UIe.    In  Ihe  parody  there  v..n  wmcth'n); 

ainedpoor  PieiroCi  tong<ance-ili:d  perplcx'lin, 

^Led  hy  a  pro>ccEnl  pamly  of  his  "  Kachabcet " 
"  *-  re  tbe  hany  matrlage  or  Ihe  young  Hacha- 

me,  whOt  for  ber  nnt  penitential  act,  per- 


:  parody  hut  the  abturditicf  of  ilramalic 

aE,''be  ingevnouily  adiK  "it  is  the  public,  not 
rho  BR  the  authon  of  Ihric  psiiuui^a  i  for 

ibemJ'    We  have  haJ  tracedies  recently  whii-h 
xtxH  mofh  required  parodici  to  e*po4  them. 


Ayr::    rrs  ■.■f  the  FAinFAX  family. 


Vrc~~J-"    --<.  in  f^zi     ^L\:^CT  ±f:r  kirrCAbic 

f\"'~;-.'~.  7.  ."■»  *...  .  '. «  T .'  -!-■;?■.  """T  j-u*  ..c,  or 
TAiri:-  :«r-4^  r..:^-:.  :.-t  >  7-r  f,  i»  «»~i:.~.c* 
t.-    «:^i    i:    v:i:    :.:    1:    -.-.it  :,  — t   trr*    v;4i.d 

1     •  «■■•   "  ^       •   ■     -  •  "  •  "?__  ^••a  -■        •••       «^  •    -      ^  J      ■ 

i-L-ii  :t  -.  <:^<  —.1.  vi.^r.  .■  Ti.*..-;  »r.i:  j* 
».-."~..  ;  -I-  . -r.-."*.  ..i  r."  ;~i<:r-«  vr.  >:  '.zi'.e 
-rj^i-"  :r.;  >_.  ~r:  .-  ;.-;  -^.;...._>'  Bi^tTic 
sii>.     "I-     — .!»:    .-^i.-     .Ti-jk.Tr-*    :^:-e    ire 

^    d  -•«     »^*     ^        -••      «  ■■•—.--•  ,•  ^»-     w**  .      »       V 1 » 

>     «     .      ^^  «^^  .*^..  •«.«*«>^-,      «  ^  •'••*  Jk>   «        «'  * 

ti.^Cxr_:  ri  ■»".:..  ■  _  .-.-_-  .■-c^. .  >  -  Tr.j> 
J".     :  :^.    ."■-   :i:;"T.:.    i 7-.v^->    . :"    ;^.i■^■.ii:il*, 

^  *«>•>        ^-.  -  •      *^l   ■"    "  ■        •!    ■**  *W    •  "*^       1       *    ■  •■     —  ■• 

r  ..  —•  •  ■•  •  ,.*_ .  •    _  ■ "  i  _  ."  T.  !"  ■    *."■_.."  t^.^  'T.* '.  .'\r«ic 

•■  ^i^ii,— s.-^  ur ;~i. ^r.^  . t jJc -^rv.  ir.i •7. set:, 
v^r  *  :.!.-  ;j.-r....ir    :.  '.r.r  c-.-rr...-  loc-r; 

T.?  y  ■■«<*.  .T.  i  ■»*  ■  •■%  »■  ".Ar-^tiT  >-;.".::r.c. 

■  :■•.•  _■>>*:;  r  c. 

\i      —    •    •  -    J      ■         »•"  J.""    '        ^""^    •■■-^•••»         ■■  •••r-'*    *** 
^B*      ■«       «■■*       *■  Mi       B     ^ia>Mift      Aa>  «•       «»B^         "*•««■       Jl      ^_   Ml  ^^   ■■ 


out,  3«  if  thnown  into  a  burning  mould,  a  btifht 
phxiiciin.  a  bright  lawyer,  a  brij^ht  divine— n 
niYiCT  woTiif.  to  adapt  themselves  lor  a  pnitcffion, 
prei:r>r.:t:r:ri  by  their  parents.  By  thh  nHum  vc 
mjv  Kcurc  X  liiular  profe«ion  for  nurson,  buttbe 
true  jTcciuf  of  the  avocation  in  the  bent  •/  tki  fmi^ 
^  a  Tr.in  of  crcat  original  powen  called  it,  n  loo 
I  r\tT.  iiiHcnt  ^  Instead  of  finding  tit  olBccsforfat 
TT.iz..  we  are  perpetually  dis4:o.vcring,  on  tbe  lU^ 
CT  »^v-irt>.  acton  out  of  character!  Our  ant 
p;  M.ar  writer  has  happily  described  th  if  error. 

**  A  lauiihing  philoMp'her,  the  Democritus  of 
(  ur  lia^,  inie  compared  hum.m  life  to  a  tkbk 
\:c^c\:S.  \^\\\\  a  numlier  oi  hole»,  each  uf  vtich 
i^a*  A  pm  mide  exactly  to  tit  it,  but  whub  pim 
i'>e:ni:  «tu«-k   in   hastily,   and    without    wlectitm. 


chance 


\ 


I 


V 


ANEC:Vi TES  OF  THE  F.URFAX  FAMILY. 

\V--.'.  i  rvr.J  of  »rei:  cipic.ry  be  revi;:ceJ  :.• 
rr^c  .vr:\  i-*  i^.e  •.;;  ch.  see  o:  a  r-'^'*'-"'"  ' 

Parent*  ire  ir.:«.n>ti'd  ;a  the  ir;:jiph>H:ci:  di'^- 
ci.**  T..  Mkhithvr  there  rv.Cly  ex:*t>  an  ir.hcrent 
^;:j_it>  ;r  I  he  hurr.in  ir.:el.ev't  wh:ch  :rr.j  .irt>  an 
aft/.iii?  to  the  iSki-^  iuJ  for  'ne  pur>u'.:  m\"re 
thjin  for  another.  Wh^t  L.tJ  <hi::ohur>-  ca;i< 
cot  !r.nitc,  Vut  connaturil  q;:al*t:e*  of  the  human 
chiTicter.  w«,  dunnc  the  Utter  pirt  of  theliot 
centurx .  entirely  r-vvcctc'. :  but  of  lite  there  ap- 
pe.irk  a  icr.^w.cy  to  return  to  the  r  :ti-'n  conse- 
crate^l  bv  a::t;4u:t\ .  t\;'.'r-cnce  ^» :..  K-:WTi  correct 
niiKiem  hvjvt:.t -:<:«.  TV.c  terrn  *"  pr>.vl;'^>»ition" 
m.i>  be  ob.octt.T.iMe.  i^  are  all  term*  which 
pretend  to  d.'s*-::v  th^,* »  ,".'.:.t%  per  itionsof  Nature 
— .\nil  at  prevnt  wo  h^vo  :; " .  ;h;'  1 

Our  chiMron  pfx*  th-.  .:^h  the  jime  public 
educiti^n.  wli  '.e  thc\  jrw-  T»\cv*in^  little  or  none 
for  their  iiuiu'Jr.il  J:«;'^''::..'i:'>,  <houid  they  hive 
Hithcicnt  >Trvnj;:h  ol  chiruter  to  induito  an>. 
The  j;rc.it  i^'crot  of  cHicaii-n  i*  tv>  develop  the 
t.»cultK'>  \>\  the  in.lnidis.iL :  tor  it  miy  lupprn  th^t 
til's  real  tiL'^t  lu.iv  lie  hidden  and  burud  under 
\\\\  cduc.itK'n,  A  pri'ii-^-ioii  ix  i.^uilly  adventi;i.»us 
made  bv  cUince  \iew>,  or  by  family  arran^.ment*. 
Should  a  choice  Ik"  Hibn-.ittod  to  the  >outh  him- 
xclf.  he  will  often  nn«i.tke  Alik;ht  and  trin'tient 
t  j<te<  lor  i»erm.tnciit  di'«po"*ition'«.  A  decid.'d  cha- 
racter. howe\  er,  wc  m.t\  often  obvrve.  i*  nipui;- 
«.»nt  to  a  particular  pumiit.deliiihtini;  in  another ; 
talcnt>,  lanijuid  and  vacillating  in  one  pnifrwion, 
mi^hl  find  them  vigonms  and  sn'ttled  in  am^ther; 
an  inditK'rent  Ltwyer  mijjht  be  an  admirable 
architect!  At  present  all  our  human  bullion  is 
sent  to  lie  melted  d«>wn  in  an  unirer^t> ,  to  come 

*  Seattle  on  Poetr)  and  Music,  p.  111. 


lea.U  in;.-xi:abiy  to  the  most  awkward 
nr.*:ake^.  For  how  often  do  we  vx,"  the  orator 
pathetically  concluded.- -"  how  often,  I  sa},  do 
we  see  the  n^und  man  ^tuck  into  the  thrce^uriicTcd 
hc:e  - 

In  looking  ever  a  manuscript  life  of  Tobie 
Manhewx  archbishop  of  York  in  James  the  Firrt'i 
nricc.  I  found  a  cunsU>  anecdote  of  hit  (grace's 
tiiCppo^ntmest  m  the  di<«po!titions  of  his  ttWA. 
The  cause,  inieed,  is  net  uncommon,  a<  was  con* 
'rnr.sNi  by  antither  |:jreat  man,  to  whom  the  a»ch- 
V-h.-'P  confessed  it.  The  old  I^rd  Thomas  F*it- 
!ji\  one  day  found  the  archbishop  ver>'  melan* 
,.hc:v.  and  inquired  the  rexMin  of  his  grace's 
j«cn«ncnc»:  "My  lord,"  said  the  archbishop,"! 
hive  great  reasim  of  sorrow  with  respect  ot  ray 
K  cs  :  one  of  whom  has  wit  and  no  grace,  another 
crace  but  no  wit,  and  the  third  neither  grace  nor 
w:t."'  *•  Your  c*«e,"  replied  Lord  Fairiax,  "  i%  not 
tincuiar.  I  am  al-^o  sadly  divippointed  in  my 
s->ns  :  one  I  sent  into  the  Netherlanils  to  train  hint 
up  a  M.>ldter,  and  he  makes  a  tolerable  country 
justice,  but  a  mere  coward  at  fighting;  my  next  I 
sent  to  Cambrid^,  and  he  proves  a  good  lawyer, 
but  a  mere  dunce  at  divinity  ;  and  my  youngest  I 
sent  to  the  inn^  of  court,  and  he  is  good  ut  divinitv, 
but  nobod*  at  the  law."  The  relator  of  this 
anecd.»te  add^  "  This  I  have  often  heard  fnim  the 
d<*s:cndant  of  that  hon<iurahIe  family,  who  yet 
*eo:r>  to  mtiice  the  matter  iHrcau^eNoimmedi.itely 
rv..itcd."  The  elde*t  >rtn  was  the  l-ord  Ferdinando 
Fjjrtax — and  the  gunsmith  to  Thomas  Lord  Fairfax 
the  son  of  this  Lord  Ferdinando,  heard  the  old 
Lord  Thomas  call  aloud  to  his  grand«on,  "Tom  ! 
Tom  '  mind  thou  the  battle  !  Th>  father's  a  good 
man,  but  a  mere  coward  '  All  the  goo«i  I  expect  i^ 
fn»m  thee!"  It  is  evident  that  the  old  Lord 
*rhomas  Fairfax  was  a  military  character,  and  in 
liis  earnest  desire  of  continuing  a  line  of  heroes, 
hid  preconcerted  to  make  hi^ eide»t  son  a  militar>- 
m  in,  who  we  di-'cover  turned  out  to  be  admir.ibly 
t!tted  for  a  worshipful  juttice  of  the  quorum*. 
This  is  a  les<on  for  the  parent  who  consults  his 
ou  n  inclinations  and  not  those  of  natural  dispo«i- 
tion.  In  the  present  case  the  same  lord,  though 
disappointed,  appears  still  to  have  pendsted  in  tlK 
same  wish  of  ha\  ing  a  great  military  character  in 
his  family  :  having  misoed  of  one  in'  his  elder  son, 
and  settled  his  other  sons  in  different  avocations, 
the  grandfather  persevered,  and  Axed  his  hopes, 
and  bestowed  his  encouragements,  on  his  grandson. 
Sir  Thomas  Fairfax,  who  make*  so  distinguished  a 
hgure  in  the  civil  wars. 


mi:  [fie  I  si:  asi>  M'>i:ai. 


549 


ViC  li.tJu  ult\    ni'  di^ccrnin^  tlic    apntiidc  oi    a 
yv.'!:\   lor    iny  jJ.articuUr  ^ic^tin.^tlon  in  lilc   will,  ^ 
pcThapj,  even    for    the    mo^t    skilful  parent,  be  | 
ilttays   ha/AfJous.    M.iny  ^^ill    be    inclined,    in 
dnpair  of  anvthtnfr  better,  to  throw  dice  with 
fortone;  or  atlopt  the  determination  of  the  father 
vho  settled  bis  9on»  by  x  whimsical  analogy  which 
he  appears  to  have  forined  of  their  di>posi'tions  or 
aptneaa   for   different  pursuits.    The  boys  were 
itinding  under  a  hedge  in  the  rain,  and  a  neigh- 
bour leponed  to  the  father  the  conversation  tie 
had  orerfaeard.    John  wished  it  would  rain  books, 
for  he  wished  to  be  a  preacher ;  Bezaleel,  wool,  to 
be  a  dothicr,  like  hn  father ;  Samuel,  monev,  to 
be  a  merchant ;   and  Edmund,  plum%  to  be  a 
(grocer.    The  father  took  these  wishes  as  a  hint, 
and  «-«  are  told,  in  the  life  of  John  Anmer  the 
elder  son,  a  puritan  minister,  that  he  chose  for 
them  these  different  callings,  in  which  it  appears 
that  they  settled  successfully.  *'  Whatever  a  young 
man  at  first  applies  himself  to  is  commonly  his 
delight  afterwards."  This  is  an  important  principle 
discovered  by  Hartley,  but  it  will  not  supply  the 
parent  with  any  determinate  regulation  how  to 
distingnish  a  transient  from  a  permanent  disposi- 
tion ;  or  how  to  get  at  what  we  may  call  the  con- 
natural qualities  of  the  mind.    A  particular  op- 
portunity afforded  me  some  close  observation  on 
the  characters  and  habits  of  tyro  youths,  brothers 
in  blood  and  affection,  and  partners  in  all  thines, 
who  e\-en  to  their  venr  dress  shared  alike ;  who 
were  never  separated  Irom  each  other ;  who  were 
taught  bv  the  same  masten,  lived  under  the  same 
rooJ,  and  were  accustomed  to  the  same  uninter- 
rupted habits ;  yet  had  nature  created  them  totally 
di^inct  in  the  qualities  of  their  minds ;  and  similar 
as  their  lives  had  been,  their  abilities  were  adapted 
for  very  opposite  pursuits:  either  of  them  could 
not  hive  been  the  other.    Andl  observed  how  the 
**  predisposition "  of  the    parties  was    distinctly 
marked  from  childhood  :  the  one  slow,  penetrat- 
ing, and  correct;  the  other  quick,  irritable,  and 
fanciful :  the  one  persevering  in  examination ;  the 
other  rapid  in  results :  the  one  unexhausted  by 
labour ;  the  other  impatient  of  whatever  did  not 
relate  to  his  own  pursuit :  the  one  logical,  histo- 
rical, and  critical;    the  other    having    acquired 
nothing,  decided  on  all  things  by  his  own  sensa- 
tions.   We  would  confidently  consult  in  the  one  a 
great  legal  character,  and  in  the  other  an  artist  of 
^nius.    If  nature  had  not  secretly  placed  a  bias 
in  their  distinct  minds,  how  could  two  similar 
beings  have  been  so  dissimilar  ? 

A  story  recordird  of  Cecco  d'Ascoli  and  of  Dante, 
on  the  subject  of  natural  and  acquired  genius, 
may  illustrate  the  present  topic.  Cecco  main- 
tained that  nature  was  more  potent  than  art, 
while  Dante  asserted  the  contrar)'.  To  prove  his 
principle,  the  great  Italian  bard  referred  to  his  cat, 
which,  by  repeated  practice,  he  had  taught  to 
bold  a  candle  in  its  paw  while  he  supped  or  read. 
Cecco  desired  to  witness  the  experiment,  and 
came  not  unprepared  for  his  purpose;  when 
Dante's  cat  was  performing  its  part,  Cecco,  lifting 
up  the  lid  of  a  (Mot  which  he  had  rilled  with  mice, 
the  creature  of  art  instantly  showed  the  weakness 
of  a  talent  merely  acquired,  and  dropping  the 
candle,  flew  on  the  mice  with  all  its  invtinctive 
propensity.     Dante  was  himself  disconcerted ;  and 


It    \N  \s  .ifliudiicd  th.it  tl:r    idvocMtr  lor   the   oct  idt 
priniiplc  <il  n.itivc  I.Huitu-N  had  cunrti  hi^  caiivr  ' 
To  tell  stdfies,  however,   is   not   to   lay   down 
principles,  yet  principles  may  sometimes  be  con- 
cealed in  stories.  * 


MEDICINE  AND  MORALS. 

A  STHOEE  of  personal  ridicule  is  levelled  at 
Dr>-den,  when  Bayes  inlurms  us  of  his  preparations 
for  a  course  of  study  bv  a  course  of  medicine! 
•*  When  I  have  a  grand  Jesign,"  sa^-s  he,  "  I  ever 
take  physic  and  let  blood ;  for  when  you  would 
have  pure  swiftness  of  thought,  and  fiery  flights  of 
fancy,  you  must  have  a  care  of  the  pensive  part ; 
in  fine,  you  must  purge  the  belly  !"  Such  was 
really  the  practice  of  the  poet,  as  La  Motte,  who 
was  a  physician,  informs  us,  and  in  his  medical 
character  did  not  perceive  that  ridicule  in  the 
subject  which  the  wits  and  most  readers  unques- 
tionably have  enjoyed.  The  wits  here  were  as 
cruel  against  truth  as  against  Dr^'den ;  for  we 
must  still  consider  tills  practice,  to  use  their  own 
words,  as  "an  excellent  recipe  for  writing." 
Among  other  philosophers,  one  of  the  most  famous 
disputants  of  antiquity,  Cameades,  was  accustomed 
to  take  copious  doses  of  white  hellebore,  a  great 
aperient,  as  a  preparation  to  refute  the  dogmas  of 
the  stoics.  Dryden's  practice  was  neither  whim- 
sical nor  peculiar  to  the  poet ;  he  was  of  a  full 
habit,  and,  no  doubt,  had  often  found  by  experi- 
ence the  beneficial  effects  without  being'aware  of 
the  cause,  which  is  nothing  less  than  the  reciprocal 
influence  of  mind  and  body  ! 

This  simple  fact  is,  indeed,  connected  with  one 
of  the  most  important  inquiries  in  the  histor)'  nf 
man  ;  the  laws  which  regulate  the  invisible  union 
of  the  soul  with  the  body  :  in  a  word,  the  inscru- 
table mv-stery  of  our  being  ' — a  secret,  but  an  nn- 
doubtea  intercourse,  which  probably  must  ever 
elude  our  perceptions.  The  combinat'ion  of  meta- 
physics with  physics  has  only  been  proiluctive  of 
the  wildest  fairy  talcs  among  philosophers:  with 
one  part>'  the  soul  seems  to  pass  away  in  its  last 
putt  of  air,  while  man  seems  to  perish  in  "  dust  to 
dust ;"  the  other  as  successfully  gets  rid  of  our 
bodies  altogether,  by  denying  the  existence  of 
matter.  We  are  not  certain  that  mind  and  matter 
are  distinct  existences,  since  the  one  may  l)e  only 
a  modirication  of  the  other ;  however  this  great 
mystery  be  imagined,  we  shall  find  with  Dr. 
Gregory',  in  his  lectures  "  on  the  duties  and  quali- 
Hcations  of  a  ph>'sician,"  that  it  forms  an  equally 
necessary  inquir>'  in  the  sciences  of  morals  and  of 
nudieiTu. 

Whether  we  consider  the  vulgar  distinction  of 
mind  and  bodv  as  an  union,  or  as  a  modified 
existence,  no  philosopher  denies  that  a  reciprocal 
action  takes  place  between  our  moral  and  physical 
condition.  Of  these  sympathies,  like  many  other 
mysteries  of  nature,  the  cause  remains  occult, 
while  the  effects  are  obvious.  This  close  yet 
inscrutable  association,  this  concealed  correspond- 

*I  have  arranged  many  facts,  connected  with 
the  present  subject,  in  the  fifth  chapter  of  what  I 
have  written  on  "  The  Literary  Character  "  in  the 
enlarged  edition  of  i8a8. 


MEDICISE  AXD  MORALS. 


Tikine  Al  uiy  put  of  the  buildiag,  vou  inrvitahSy 

ctiDgcdncnl.  Ofien  irr  oar  Ihau^t*  diflurbcd 
y  X  ttnngt  iTTitabiJiEy,  which  we  do  ool  crm 
[«nd  tn  AccOQDI  Idr.    Tbn  fUte  of  the  body. 

□unUncr  wm  c^rnesly  entreitecl  bf  1  KinilF 


rec^kct  thit  lb?  Kit  of  our  bnip  mxy  pcrhipt 
of  Docutei;  ud 

doEPviic  hippioc 

dl«tuitunrc«  of  cnniu^  life  miv  be 
ciovilT  cured  by  the  phynciiD  tt 
mmM  i  fbf  1  fcrniDO  mi^pplivd  vi 
>f   directly'   a^  a  ^jrp  medicine. 


znont    nt-ii    Kkitowkdmi^    I 


I  iipbrud  TtibcT  thu  b 


EoF  in   liyirtghim  u^p  u 


CTinE  the  lUte  ol  Ibe  bDdr. 

1,  'Svtf  h'pptlir  pFuctiKd 


to  hive  fofvot  t( 


iurdeTcd  miad  molTed  m 


pn-   enoing,  took  >  fireweil  of  her  ■itend 

K  of    fiiltelrd  hcnclf  die  ihould  ncin  awikcc 

(ilrep.    In  themoniin^howeveT.notwit 

pmbihk  tbit 

occvkm.     Hie   Lcy<kn   pmrurior  vc  hate  ju«l  |  eitraiit<tinan»  her  per^i  ten* 

"  OB  the  nuniiteineiit  ind  cure  of  the  dlwrden  o(  j  mdieied  miod  orer  her  hodv  w 
the  nund  bv  in^kition  n  the  body."    I>eH:irtei   tm  quintilv  of  Ijudinmn  fr 
CDBfCCTUTCd,  tnit  Mi  the  mind  icrttu  w  dependent    by  terniiiuting  in  death, 
oa  tbc  difpovticq  of  the  bndily  otridv  If  any       Moral  K^cv^  fir  inlinnilia,  ' 

more  lD^;nl.>u4  thu  they  hare  beeit  hilheno,   appM^-iirioiB.    Prrcepn  and'etl 
iticb  a  method  might  bewughl  fmm  Ihcutiti-    tlwy  iii-em  to  pmducr  a  ninii 


MEDICFUE  AUD  MORALS. 


or^Hikvation-    The  w 


tlupiHeil  wtKD  th 


>>  d.nurbed  or 
iFUk  blood  ii 


In;  them  i  if  j-ou  bdghMn  bt>  tn 
iwihvn  Tww  iiLeu  In  IhH  Mupid  beii 
ff  cuTc  the  unpid  by  incmrina  his  ki 

1  ind  the  tndf  play  togethef  En  one 
■  iccnrd.  Procrlhc  the  bath,  frictic 
^ntiliom,  ind  Ibou^  it  Ken 

viy,  yua  get  at  the  brBiiu  hy  hit , 

nun,  from  Umji  tedeDUiy  bitalti,  could  not  wer- 
cnme  hit  hti  of  mchinchQljrt  VAi  hb  phjticbn 

JouhledhAdiriliquiDtitrofwinej  »nil*^-' ' 

Henry  Stephens,  ancr  ■  fcrere  uoet 

dr^iM  e(  booln,  Ihe  mon  bekn^  ob, 

whole  life,  Ihil  the  xtry  Ihougbl  of  tbem 


devil,  by  hE»  pieiomed  ^(t  of  p*<ophecv,  d 
liiRiielf  rmm  the  (cniuiton  hjr  ■nnbuting  hii 
rieu  ind  piadenl  tiewt  of  diinn  to  the  li^ 
ilimcnti  he  lived  on,  never  indulgina  in  i  ririely 
if  food.  "  Tbii  mode  of  life  bu  pnMuced  neb  a 
Mnpicuily  in  my  Idea,  that  I  we  ai  in  *  cbw 
:hiniv«  ptot  and  futuie."  We  nujr,  thcrelore, 
t^ree  «itb  Bavei,  that "  for  ■  mnnet  to  Amandji, 
ind  the  hkf,  slewed  pnina  emit "  might  be  luf- 
icieni  i  but  Inr  "  a  gr^-'ai  design."  nothing  ks 

Camib,  a   french   pbytiklan,  who    combined 

JT  Ihe  Art  of  CO«netic%"  which  he  diicoveted  in 
^irerciv  and  temperance,  produced  anotbcr  Jin- 
iL  work,  WTillen  In  1153,  "  La  Medecine  de 


unjettuHj 


a  brighter  ixy. 

or  the  diteua  1 
phririani  cuir 


,ii  ptinciplc  only  u  Ihe 

thetoul,  Inlbetimei 
fluaian  from  Ihe  lunei 


of  the  intel^rual  operatior 
by  phyHcil  ci 


and  iirilaMe 
temperament  inherit*  It 

icr.  Howiy,  conid  It  be  treated  mcdii'i- 
.would  require  in  prBcriptloni,  a>  all  diK»n 
their  fpeciric  remedlef ;  the  great  ncret  19 
ipi  dtacoi-errd  by  Camw— that  of  i^iilriir 
I  mind  ^  mairi  a/fkr  »«ltr. 


'  iay\  p.  90,  *'  There  ki 


dfftcli  q/  ricaJfarfuii,  where  Ih 
rii-our  m  remember  li%  ineffectual  I; 

-■-"  *f  nuKlri  ordinarily  aubiecitd  tn  ilie  will. 
duit  ■  parallel  where  Ihe  mind  lovi  11 


PSAL-V^SISaiSG. 


Turt  of  Ihc  fDu]  H  thr  body,  as  (he  body  bvnnin  a 
pjTt  fit  Ibr  wuL }  The  mcM  impnrunt  tmtb  re- 
maiiu  unrlhiitgnl,  ind  ctr  wUI  in  thb  mcnuJ 

which  k'd  tn  ibc  iie«  of  thii  subject,  tbit  in  Ihii 
mutiuL  iniercDDncctf  bodjrznd  mind  Ihe  mpCTior 
b  nften  gc^vmed  bv  Ihe  inftrior ;  olhcn  think  tbe 
mind  ii  mmv  witfully  outmgmui  ihu  the  body. 
nntvch,  in  hb  outi,  ho  a  funiJijir  iltnsDiIicHi, 
Thich  ht  hMTOwi  inm  vmc  phUovphcr  marc 


mind  I  a  pneticc  which  in< 
pnmipl  t^'  pbj^cbns,  tbnu| 

MixD  with  the  luDv: 


page  that  they  are  *'  vt  forth  and  ai^tu<tii  to  be 
sung  in  ail  chuirbci,"  ttiey  wnT  onn  admittrd 
by  Jaw^rul  autborltx'.    Tbey  were  nnt  intvodnced 

nivance.    At  a  good  pDCTlcal  antiquary,  Twnnji 

nenble  text  of  old  Slernbold  and  Hopkiu,  which, 
by  diangiiig  obvirtB  for  fkmiiijf  worda,  licatfufa 
the  tntutr  of  the  ori^ual  $fylc  i  aiul  many 
ftauTa*.  BiTcady  too  naked  and  weak,  like  a  nlain 
old  Gothic  edilice  Kfipped 


;    vu   otpctienced    hy 


^mtbiuti .    II  hd  not  perhaps  been  mnarteil,  i 
metrical  ^alnu,  dceene< 


lannhip,  and  Ihe  whpleconifre^i^on  joined  in  it  ;^  itrippine  TclieiDn  not  tnereivof  i(?<  paceantrt.  but 
ret  altera  ardi  the  lingcn  by  pfofevion,  who  bad^  eren  of  ib  dceeni  ceiemonicv  ll^t  ihb  bc^'eiiing 
been  fr^^iitj  afftiwud  It  if*i  ^xd  Jrml  ihtm,    relitaneT  should  have  inlrnduced  thn  Ii4te  lot 


thooiih   the   linl  Chmti 
nidihe' 


a  parallel  principle,'* 


e  enpfewwn  of  fAf  ft^ptf '  aib>WT 
.*.,.&«  imiaedaaemhli     pi.iur 


waJrtiJy  |  rcpiibjic,  wbo  can 


'h^  »°^.h  tn  l£ 


be  pDl  luting  ibese  p 


PSAL^-SlSaiNG. 


hard  of  Franch  Ihc  Finl.  thit  "Prince  of  P«u, 
iiut  that  Pdcc  of  Princes,*'  u  he  wu  quaintly  bul 
npiQHTvLy    dignilivfl    tw    hit    confcmporafici. 

■narked  feUcllf,  that  he  hai  kit  hia  nunc  to  a 
alyle  of  pnetr^  calked  Mantmit^    The  orjginB]  La 

vny  lornu  of  poetrVj  ai  wcU  aa  Lti  suhiecta  and  ia 
manncT.  Hh  lif«,  iDd«d»  icnk  more  shapes  and 
indulged  to  more  poetlcaJ  LLcenccf,  rhan  eten  hb 
poelty ;  linntmii  In  moiaU ;  often  In  pnnn.  ot 
at  conn,  or  Ln  the  army,  or  a  fugLEirc,  be  bai  Lett 
in  hu  Dumeroua  liltie  poena  nuny  a  curiout 

vsry  Ur  from  beii^  dcvont^  when  his  fi^nil»  the 


Theodore  Beia  wai  abo  hii  frlcful  and  prompur, 
lifty-lwo  PsilnB,  nr" —   - - 


j^  Marot,  who  was  never  icrave  but  in  pnwn, 
won  recoveted  froin  this  detGcalion  to  the  king. 

"  He  Kem*  auxioui  to  deprecate  the  raillery  which 


termin|rteinah^ly 


linuet  the  poet,  that 


Thrice  happy  they,  who  may  behold, 
And  ibten,  in  that  age  of  gold  I 
Aa  by  the  pkni^  the  labourer  itrayv. 

And  tradesman  in  hli  thop  ihail  iwell 
Their  nice  in  l^oi  or  Canticle, 
^nging  to  tolace  toil !  again, 
Prom  wDoda  ihalL  come  a  iweeter  Mrain  \ 
shepherd  and  ihepherdcK  ahull  vie 


almi."  in  the  fervour  of  Ihi 


expreued  hii  own  penonal  fee1ing«,  adapted  to 

aa  the  hart  dniretn  the  wateT>broak«."  There  ia 
a  cunous  portrait  of  the  miftrev  of  Kennr,  the 
famoua  Diane  de  Poictlen,  recently  published,  on 
which  Ib  jrucribed  Vhwirittf  tht  piatrn.    On  a 

cordance ;  perhapa  the  painter,  or  the  lady  her- 


354 


PSAL3f-Sr\G/X0. 


atUchment,  took  Du  fond  J*  ma  penx't,  or, 
"  From  the  depth  of  my  heart."  The  Queen's 
favourite  was, 

N*  X'tteilUs  pas,  «  sire^ 

Me  reprenJre  en  t«n  tre ; 

that  is,  '*  Rebuke  me  not  in  thy  indignation," . 
which  she  sung  to  a  fashionable  ji^.  Anton\ ,  I 
king  of  Navarre,  sung,  Re-z-enge  tnoy  prens  la 
querelle,  or,  "  Sund  up,  O  Lord,  to  re\-cnge  my 
quarrel,"  to  the  air  of  a  dance  of  Pojtou.*  We 
may  conceive  the  a"jour  with  which  this  no\-eltv 
was  received,  ft^r  Francis  sent  to  Charles  the  Fifth  ■ 
Marot's  collection,  who  both  bv  promises  and 
presents  encouraged  the  French  hard  to  proceeci 
with  his  version,  and  entreated  Marot  to  send 
him  as  soon  as  possible  Confitemini  Domino,  quo- 
ntam  bonus,  because  it  was  his  favourite  Psalm. 
And  the  Spanish  as  well  as  French  compo*:r» 
h.Tstencd  to  set  the  psalms  of  Marot  to  music. 
The  fashion  lasted  ;  for  Henr>-  the  Second  set  one 
to  an  air  of  his  own  composing.  Catharine  de 
Mcdii  is  had  her  psalm,  and  it  seems  that  e%-cr\- 
one  at  court  adopted  some  particular  psalm  for 
themselves,  which  they  often  played  on  lutes  and 
guitars,  &c.  Singing'  psalms  in  verse  was  then 
rne  of  the  chief  ingredients  in  the  happiness  of 
social  life. 

The  univenal  reception  of  Marot's  Psalms  in- 
duced Theodore  Beza  to  conclude  the  collection, 
and  Un  thousaml  copies  were  immediately  dis- 
pcrsctl.  But  these  had  the  advantage  of  being 
set  to  miiVic,  for  we  are  told,  they  were  "ad- 
mirably fitteil  to  the  \iolin  and  other  miisual 
iiiHtrumcnts."  And  who  was  the  man  who  had 
thus  adroitly  taken  hold  of  tlie  public  feeling  to 
gi\e  it  thi*  stron<^  direction  ?  It  was  the  solitar)' 
Thaumatun^us,  the  ascetic  Calvin,  who,  from  the 
depth  of  his  closet  at  Geneva,  had  engaged  the 
fine>t  musical  composers,  who  were,  no  doubt, 
warmed  by  the  zeal  of  propagating  hij>  futh,  to 
form  thcM.*  simple  and  t>e.tutiful  airs  to  assist  the 
Psalm->ingers.  At  first  this  was  not  discovered, 
ami  Catholii  s,  as  well  as  Huguenots,  were  solacing 
tliemselves  on  all  occasions  with  this  new  music. 
But  when  Cilvin  ap)>ointed  these  psalms,  as  set 
to  music,  to  be  sung  at  his  meetings,  and  Marot's 
formed  an  appendix  to  the  Catechism  of  Geneva, 
this  put  an  end  to  all  psilm -singing  for  the  poor 
Catholics !  Marot  himself  was  forced  to  fly  to 
Geneva  from  the  Eliminations  of  the  Sorbonne, 
and  psalm-smging  became  an  open  declaration 
of  what  the  French  call  "  I.utheraniim,"  when 
it  became  with  the  reformed  a  regular  pirt  of 
their  religious  discipline.  The  Cardinal  of  Lor- 
raine succee<led  in  persuading  the  lovely  pi- 
troness  of  the  **  holy  Song-hook,"  Diane  de  Poic- 
tiers,  who  at  first  was  a  psolm-singcr  and  an 
heretical  reader  of  the  Bible,  to  discountename 
this  new  fashion.  He  began  by  finding  fault  with 
the  Ps.ilms  of  David,  and  revived  tlie  amatory 
elegancies  of  Horace:  at  that  moment  even  the 
reading  of  the  Bible  was  symptomatic  of  I.u- 
theranism ;  Diane,  who  had  given  way  to  the>e 


*  As  Warton  has  pirtly  drawn  from  tlie  same 
•ource,  I  have  adopted  his  own  wonls  \%h<'never  I 
could.  It  is  not  c.isy  to  write  after  Thomas 
Warton  whenever  he  is  pleased  with  his  subjevt. 


n->velties,  would  have  a  French  Bible,  became 
Uie  Queen,  Catharine  de  M edicts,  had  one,  and 
the  Cardinal  finding  a  Bible  on  her  tible,  'tm- 
mediately  crossed  himself,  beat  his  brca«t,  and 
othenii-ise  so  well  acted  his  part,  that  *' baring 
thrown  the  Bible  down  and  condemned  it,  he 
remonstrated  with  the  fair  penitent,  ♦hat  it  was 
a  kind  of  reading  not  adapted  for  her  sex,  con- 
taining dangerous  matters;  If  she  was  uneasir 
in  her  mind  she  should  hear  two  nnasses  instead 
of  one,  and  rest  content  with  her  Pater-norten 
and  her  Primer,  which  were  not  only  devotional, 
but  ornamented  with  a  variety  of  elegant  forms 
from  the  most  exquisite  pencils  of  France."  Such 
b  the  story  drawn  from  a  curious  letter,  written 
by  a  Hagueiiot,  and  a  former  friend  of  Catharine 
de  Medlcis,  and  by  which  we  may  infer  that  the 
reformed  religion  was  making  considerable  pro- 
gress in  the  French  court, — had  the  Cardinal  ot 
Lorraine  not  interfered  by  persuading  the  mis- 
tress, and  she  the  king,  and  the  king  his  qnera 
at  once  to  give  up  psalm-singing  and  reading  the 
Bible ! 

••  This  infectious  fren«y  of  psalm-singing,  •* 
as  Warton  describes  it,  under  the  Calvinisiit; 
preachers  had  rapidly  propagated  itself  thnmuh 
Germany  as  well  as  Ftance.  It  wa^  admirably 
calculated  to  kindle  the  flame  of  fanaticism,  and 
frequently  ser\-ed  as  the  trumpet  to  rebellion. 
These  energetic  hymns  of  Geneva  cxc»ted  and 
supported  a  variety  of  popular  insurrcct'oiis  m 
the  most  flourishing  cities  of  the  Low  Countnr*, 
and  what  our  poetical  antiquary  could  never  Im- 
give,  *•  fomented  the  furv  which  defaced  manv 
of  the  most  beautiful  and  venerable  churches  cl 
Flanders." 

At  length  it  reached  our  island  at  that  cntical 
moment  when  it  had  first  embraced  the  Reforma- 
tion ;  and  here  its  domestic  history  was  parallel 
w  ith  its  foreign,  except,  perhaps,  in  the  splcn<k>ur 
of  its  success.  Sternhold,  an  enthusiast  ff»r  the 
reformation,  was  much  otiended,  sa>-s  Warton,  *{ 
the  lascivious  ballads  which  prevailed  among  the 
courtiers,  and  with  a  laudable  design  to  check 
these  indecencies,  he  undertook  to  lie  our  Marot 
— without  his  genius;  "thinking  thereby,"  sa)-s 
our  cynical  literary  historian,  Antony  Wooil, 
"  that  the  courtiers  would  sing  them  instead  of 
their  sonnets,  tut  did  not,  only  some  few  ex- 
cepted." They  were  practised  bv  the  Puritans  in 
the  reign  of  Elizabeth ;  for  Shakespeare  notices 
the  Puritan  of  his  day  "  singing  psalms  to  horn- 
pipes," *  and  more  particularly  during  the  pro- 
tectorate of  Cromwell,  on  the  same  plan  of^  ac- 
commodating them  to  popular  tunes  and  ji.^  ' 
which  one  of  them  said  "  were  too  good  for  the  ( 
devil."    Psalms  were  now  sung  at  Lord  Ma}'ors* 

*    Mr.  Douce  iin.igines  that    this    alludes   to 

a  common    practice    at    tliat    time  among    the 

Puritans  of   burlesquing    the  plain  chant   of   the 

Papists,  by  adapting  vulgar  and  ludicrous  music 

to    psalms   and    pious    compositions.      tUust,  rf 

:  Shakespeare,!.  y<$.     My  idea  differs;   the  inten- 

I  tion  was,  that  which  induced  Sternhold  to  veTsif|r 

I  the  Psalms,  to  be  sung  instead  of  lasci^-ious  ballads; 

and    the  most    popular   tunes  were    ailerwards 

adopted,  that  the  singer  might  practise  his  (arounte 

tune. 


SIDTCULOVS  TITLES  ASSUMED  BY  THE  ITALIAN  ACADEMTES.  555 


hid  KiiuUiin  framing  ihr  HnKU,  but  had  tbdc 
iiL  11  Ruinl  Ihu  Ihc  hypocntiul  brotheihond  dhl 


"  Tbuihlcnmick ;"  tad  Niplct  of 


r  The  Ir^lAna  ire  *  CincifuL  pcopk.  who  hair 
often  mutd  t  grup  or  two  of  ucjmntry  and  t\'ca 
orfollrwllhtbcitwiidoin.  11ili  fUKifiil  cbusctcr 
betri)!  iueJf  in  Ihcw  vchi(«tuK,  In  theli  pnctty. 
In  Unit  eitHnpaiity  carnal)',  uid  thtii  hnfrn- 

of  ihii  luihinil  l(iiir,appM*  in  VaaK  dnmnii- 

I  Ibcir  Acidcininl  I  ha<c  >n  iiin  inquired  fnr 
iy  a/vApvAAi  ntffon  *h]r  the  moit  ingniaus 
len,  and  pwt  and  liitutTioua  pmouRK  car- 
A -|  wril  ■■  pacta,  kcbDurt,  and 


artiitf,  in  et'cry  iiicraty  nly,  4Kiuid  vDiunlanif 
cbroie  ro  burkamie  IbennrLfca  and  tbeirierkiua 

(iiJei,  aa  <f  it  tivrt  camival't'lnic,  and  (bey  had  la 
luppoTt    mjwincradc  dvanctrrt,  and   accepting 

viilei:  cJubi,tbe  Corictx  of  "Odd  Fellavi,"and 
of  *"  Ictenlnc)  1"  A  principle  »  wbimilnl  but 
n-ncRiMiCi  nun  ttuiiy  haic  arinnalcd  in  •ome 
circumttaite  not  hilheno  detecteL 

A  Irteui}  Iriead,  mrEnlly  in  an  lulian  cily, 
eihaiHIed  hy  tbe  litttit,  tntcred  a  houw  vhue 
open  dnor  and  circular  V4la  appeared  10  odcr  to 
Euaienten  ■  refrethmg  urMimt  he  ditcmered, 
howecer.  (hat  be  had  roi  into  "  the  AcMlemr  of 
IheCameleonf,"  «bcre  lhe>  met  tn  deiioht  ihe>r 
brolhen,andany  ^tpintogenlil  "  llie^  couid  nait 

prtfjodice  igainH  (he4  Intle  creature^  locjl  vilh 
*rajf  t  rinw,  and  MMiaily  with  odfl  and  Knneti 

waii'cd  all  rartber  curitnty  and  courteay,  and  bai 

"  CanKlcunt "  looked  ¥rhen  chanii  DC  their  coloon 


countiy  about  the  rimeenlb  centuiy.    Thex  »- 
a  great  number  is  regUIered   hy  Quadrio  and 

tttauKhr,  for  pov 


nf  her  "Inwpid^"   her  ■' Biockheadi," 


tbeie  hntutkal  titki  have  occasioned  fh«e  Ita- 
Uan  academiea  to  appear  tcry  ridi  ulatu  ro  the 

K"  ilotcphical  thinkeTa.  They  apci)DC>«  l"r  thii 
d  taitc,  by  dcacribinfi  the  ardaur  wbich  waa 
indled  Ihnj'pEhoiil   ilaly  at   ll>e  reunnlinn  cif 

tcli'ei  in  bearing  Ihdr  emidenu.  (hat  is,  the  dia- 
dnclit-e  arm  oKh  academjr  had  choieti.  But  why 
did  tber  myitif|r  Ibenaelvea  ? 

"■•■  ■   ■-  icoDiefutinDal,  ikavi)pDrmupUn1. 

indant  aeed*  Tt»  convqnence  nf 
ridiculoua  lilka  For  IhcK  aeadv- 
mics,  luggcfted  to  them  many  other  cluraclerjs- 
tic  (iippcrtca.  Al  Floivnee  every  bmllket  of  tbe 
*'  Umidi "  aanimed  tbe  name  ofiomething  aqiia- 
lic,  or  any  quality  penaining  to  humidity.  One 
wai  calbea  "  tiK  Froaen,"  another  **  the  Damp  i" 
■ai  "the  Pike,"  another  "the  Bwani"  and 
u.^^ini,  thecelebnbcd  novcliit,  h  known  iietter 

hich  he  whimriraUy  dcaignatei  hiniKlf  among 
e  "  Kumidi."    I  iind  among  the  InKnmii,  one 


nan  of  learning  taking  the 

amoui  f lorentlne  acadi 

— '— ,  threw  Ibennelvew  ..^™..,s  ■■■.■■  .■ 
.theacademyof  "Bi 


Tequind  an  Italian  prodigality  nf  conceit  to  hare 
induced  IbcK  gnie  KholiiTS  10  exbibit  Ibem- 

mili  and  a  h.tkehoaK  \  a  pulpit  for  the  orator  ii 


for  their  inki 

celebrated  ol  tneae  acadennea  u  that  ' 
cadia"  at  Rome,  who  aie  ililt  cvr^'in 
pretensiont  much  higher.    Whoever  Kyi^a  u 
aggregated  to  the*  Arcadian  ihephenlj  receiv 

lam,  picked  out  of  a  map  of  the  ancient  Arc 

imaD  a  poaaetnon  for  tbete  partilionen  ol  hh 
ahine.    Their  lawa,  modclleil  by  The  tweli-e  ta 


356 


ON  THE  RIDICULOUS  TITLES 


**  he  was  presented  with  two  diplomas ;  the  one 
was  my  cnartcr  of  aggregation  to  the  Arcadi  of 
Rome,  under  the  name  of  Polisseno^  the  other  gave 
me  tlic  investiture  of  the  PhUgean  fields.  I  was 
on  this  saluted  hy  the  whole  assembly  in  chorus, 
under  the  name  of  Polisseno  PhUgeiOf  and  em- 
braced by  them  an  a  fellow  shepherd  and  brother. 
The  ytrcadians  are  vcr\'  rich,  as  you  may  perceive, 
my  dear  reader  :  we  possess  estates  in  Greece  ;  we 
water  them  with  our  labours  for  the  sake  of  reap- 
ing laurels,  and  the  Turks  sow  them  with  grain, 
«nd  plant  them  with  vines,  and  laugh  at  botn  our 
titles  and  our  songs."  When  Fontcnclle  became 
an  Arcadian,  thev  baptized  him  //  Pastor  Pigrasto^ 
that  is,  "amiahic  Fountain!"  allusive  to  his 
name  and  his  delightful  style;  and  magnificently 
presented  him  with  the  entire  Isle  of  Dclos !  The 
late  Joseph  Walker,  an  enthusiast  for  Italian  litera- 
ture, dedicated  his  "  Memoir  on  Italian  Tragedy  " 
to  the  Countess  Spencer;  not  inscribing  it  with 
his  Christian  but  his  heathen  name,  and  the  title 
of  his  Arcadian  estate,  Eubante  Tirinxio '  Plain 
Joseph  Walker,  in  his  masquerade  dress,  with  his 
Arcadian  signet  of  Pan's  reeds  dangling  in  his 
title-page,  was  performing  a  character  to  which 
however  well  adapted,  not  being  understood,  he 
got  stared  at  for  his  affectation  !  We  have  lately 
heard  of  some  licentious  revellings  of  these  Arca- 
dians, in  receiving  a  man  of  genius  from  our  own 
country,  who,  himself  composing  Italian  Rtme^ 
had  "  conceit  "  enough  to  become  a  shepherd  !• 
Yet  let  us  inquire  before  we  criticise. 

Even  this  ridiculous  society  of  the  Arcadians 
became  a  memorable  literary  institution ;  and 
Tirabosclii  has  shown  how  it  successfully  arrested 
the  bad  taste  which  was  then  prevailing  through- 
out Italy,  recalling  its  muses  to  purer  sources; 
while  the  lives  of  many  of  its  shepherds  have 
furnished  an  interesting  volume  of  literary  history 
under  the  title  of  "The  illustrious  Arcadians." 
Cresccmbini,  and  its  founders,  had  formed  the 
most  elevated  conceptions  of  the  society  at  its 
origin  ;  but  poetical  vaticinators  are  prophets  only 
while  wc  read  their  verses — we  must  not  look  for 
that  dr)'  matter  of  fact — the  event  predicted  ! 

"  II  vostro  seme  eterno 
Occupcra  la  terra,  ed  i  confini 
D' Arcadia  oltn'.passando, 
Di  non  piii  visti  gloriosi  germi 
L'aureo  fecondera  lito  del  Gauge 
E  de'  Cimmcn  I'infeconde  arene." 

Mr.  Mathias  has  recently  with  warmth  defended 
the  original  Arcadia ;  and  the  assumed  character 
of  its  members,  which  has  been  condemned  as 
betraying  their  aflfcctation,  he  attributes  to  their 
modesty.  "  Before  the  critics  of  the  Arcadia  (the 
pasiori,  as  they  modestly  styled  themsebes),  with 
Cresccmbini  for  their  conductor,  and  with  the 
Adorato  Atbano  for  their  patron  (Clement  XI.),  all 
that  was  depraved  in  language,  and  in  sentiment, 
fled  and  disappeared." 


*  History  of  the  Middle  Ages,  ii.  584.  See,  also, 
Mr.  Rose's  Letters  from  the  North  of  Italy,  vol.  i. 
204.  Mr.  Hallam  has  obser^'cd,  that  "  such  an  in- 
stitution as  the  society  degti  Arcadi  could  at  no 
time  have  endured  public  ridicule  in  England  for 
a  fortnight." 


The  strange  taste  for  giving  fantastical  deoooii* 
luitions  to  literary  institutions  grew  into  a  ciatom, 
though,  probably,    no   one    knew   how.     Tbe 
founders  were  always  persons  of  rank  or  learniqg^ 
yet  still  accident  or  caprice  created  tbe  m3rstifyiog 
title,  and    invented  those    appropriate  embkn^ 
which    still  added  to    the    folly.    The  Arcadtn 
society  derived  its  title  from  a  spontaneous  cos* 
ceit.    This  assembly  first  held  its  meetings,  oi 
summer  evenings,  in  a  meadow  on  tbe  banbcf 
the  Tiber ;  for  the  tine  climate  of  Italy  promolo 
such  assemblies  in  the  open  air.    In  the  recital  of 
an  eclogue,  an  enthuMast,  amidst  all  he  was  hcu> 
ing  ana  all  he  was  seeing,  exclaimed,  "  I  seeni  St 
this  moment  to  be    in   the    Arcadia  of  ancicat 
Greece,  listening  to  the  pure  f  nd  simple  strain 
of    its    shepherds."      Enthusiasm    is   contagions 
amidst  susceptible  Italians  and  this  name,  by  in- 
spiration and  by  acclamation,  was  conferred  mi 
the  society !     Even  more  recently  at  Florence  tbe 
accademia  called  the  Colomhariaf  or  the  '*  Pigeoa- 
house,"  proves  with  what  levity  the  Italians  name 
a  literar>'  society.    The  founder  was  the  Cavalkro 
Pazzi,  a  gentleman,  who,  like  Morose,  abboning 
noise,  chose  for  his  study  a  garret  in  his  palazzo; 
it  was,  indeed,  one  of  the  old  turrets  which  bad 
not  yet  fallen  in :  there  he  fixed  his  libran-,  and 
there  he  assembled  the  most  ingenious  Florvntines 
to  discuss  obscure  points,  and  to  reveal  their  own 
contributions  in  this  secret  retreat  of  silence  lod 
philosophy'.    To  get  to  this  cabinet  it  was  neces- 
sary to  climb  a  very  steep  and  ver>'  narrow  sbur- 
case,    which   occasioned   some   facetious   wit  to 
observe,  that  these  literati,  were  so  many  pigeons 
who  flew  every  o'cning  to  their  dove-cote.   The 
Cavallero  Pazzi,  to  indulge  this  humour,  invited 
them  to  a  dinner  entirely  composed  of  their  little 
brothers,  in  all  the  varieties  of  cookery- ;  the  mem- 
bers, after  a  hearty  laugh,  assumed   the   title  of 
the  Co/om^aria,  invented  a  device  consisting  of  the 
top  of  a  turret,  with  several  pigeons  Hying  about 
it,  bearing  an  epigraph  from  Dante,  Ouanto  I'tdn 
ji  pio,  by  which  they  expressed  their  design  not  to 
apply  themselves  to  any  single  object.    Such  facts 
sufficiently  prove  that  some  of  the  absurd  or  fa- 
cetious denominations  of  these  literary    societies 
originated  in  accidental  circumstances,  or  in  mere 
pleasantry ;  but  this  will  not  account  for  the  origin 
of  those  m>-stifying  titles  we  have  noticed;  for 
when  grave  men  call  themselves  dolts  or  lunatics, 
unless  thev  arc  really  so,  they  must  have  some 
reason  for  laughing  at  themseh-es. 

To  attempt  to  develop  this  curious  but  obscure 
singularity  in  literary  history,  we  must  go  fanbcr 
back  among  the  first  beginnings  of  these  institu- 
tions. How  were  they  looked  on  by  the  go\'em- 
ments  in  which  they  first  appeared?  These 
academics  might,  perhaps,  form  a  chapter  in  tbe 
history  of  secret  societies,  one  not  yet  written,  but 
of  which  many  curious  materials  lie  scattered  in 
history.  It  is  certain  that  such  literary  societies  in 
their  first  origins,  have  always  excited  the  jealousy 
of  ^vemments,  but  more  particularly  in  ecclesi- 
astical Rome,  and  the  rival  principalities  of  Italy. 
If  two  great  nations,  like  those  of  England  and 
France,  had  their  suspicions  and  fears  roused  by  a 
select  assembly  of  philosophical  men,  and  either 
put  them  down  by  force,  or  closely  watched 
them,  this  will  not  seem  extraordinary  in  little 


As.^U}fi:i>  r.y  iiii:  itai  ias  .\'\\/>/:m/i.<. 


5S 


■pit.^-  st.iti:?'.     \\'c  h.i\c  act  c:iiiit'.  (.;  ^■ri.r  j 


1,11' 


i. 


jojibicil  .'t^vKi.ttKins  at  homt-,  \vliiv  li  wtic  j.-inni 

by  Sir  Philip  Sidney  and  Sir  Walter  Rawltijjh,  but 

vhich  Kion  got  the  odiunn  of  atheism  attached  to 

them;    and    the    establishment    of   the    l-rcnth 

Academy  occasioned  some  umbrage,   for  a  \e.tr 

cLipied  before  the  p.irliament  of  Paris  would  rcgis- 

ta  their  patent,  which  was  at  length  accorded  by 

the  poUtical  Richelieu  ohsenring  to  the  president, 

ttut  "he  ahoukl  like  the  members  according  as 

ibe  membcn  liked  him."    Thus  we  have  ascer- 

tiined  one  principle,  that  governments  in  those 

times  looked  on  a  new   societv  uith   a  political 

gUoce :  nor  is  it  improbable  t^at  some  of  them 

combined  an  ottensible  with  a  btent  motive. 

Ttiere  is  no  want  of  evidence  to  pro\e  that  the 
modem  Romans,  from  the  thirteenth   to  the  tif- 
terath  centur}-,  were  too  feelingly  alive  to  their 
ohicufrd  glory,  and  that  thev  too  frefjucntly  made 
imidious  comparisons  of  their  ancient  republic 
»itb  the  pontifical  government ;   to  revive  Rome, 
vtth  ever>  thing  Roman,  inspired  such  enthusiitsts 
as  Rienzi',  and  charmed  the  visions  of  Petrarch. 
At  a  period  when  ancient   Iitcr.iture,  as  if  by  a 
miracle,  was  raising    itself  from    its   grave,  the 
learned  were  agitated  by  a  correspondent  energv  : 
HOC  only  W2U  an  estate  sold  to  purchase  a  manu- 
script, but  the  relic  of  genius  was  touched  with  a 
religious  emotion.    The  classical  purity  of  Cicero 
was  contrasted  with  the  barbarous  idiom  of  the 
Missal;  the  glories  of  ancient    Rome   with   the 
miserable  subjugation  of  its  modern  poutifls ;  and 
the  metaph)  >ical  reveries  of  Plato,  and  what  they 
termed  the  ' "  Enthusiasmus  Alcxandrinus  " — the 
dreams  of  the  Pbtonbts — seemed  to  the  fanciful 
Italians  more  elevated  than  the  humble  and  pure 
ethics  of  the   Gospels.     'J'he  \ain  and  amorous 
Eloisa  could  even  censure  the  gross  manners,  as  it 
seemed  to  her,  of  the  apostles,  ior  picking  the  ears 
of  com  in  their  walks,  and  at  their  meals  eating 
with  unwashed  hands.    Touched  by  this  mania  of 
antiquity,  the  learned  affected  to  change  their 
vulgar  Christian    name,  by  ansuming  the    more 
claaical  ernes  of  a  Junius  Brutus,  a  Pomponius,  or 
a  Julius,  or  any  other  rusty  name  unwashed  by 
baptism.    This  frenzy  for  the  ancient  republic  not 
only  menaced  the  pontificate ;  but  their  Platonic, 
or  their  pagan  ardours,  seemed  to  be  striking  at 
the  foundation  of  Christianity  itself.    Such  were 
Marcillus  Ficinus,  and  that  learned  society  who 
assembled  under  the  Medici.    Pomponius  Lctus, 
who  lived  at  the  close  of  the  fifteenth  century,  not 
only  celebrated  by  an  annual  festival  the  founda« 
tion  of  Rome,  and  raised  altars  to  Romulus,  but 
openly  expre«ed  his  contempt  for  the  Christian  re- 
ligion, which  tbi5  \  isionary  declared  was  only  fit 
for  barbarians;  but  this  extravagance  and  irre- 
ligion,  observes  Niceron,  were  common  with  many 
oftbe  learned  of  those  times,  and  this  very  Pom- 
ponius was  at  length  formally  accused  of  the  crime 
of  changing  the  baptismal  names  of  the  young 
persons  whom  he  taught,  for  pagan  ones !  **  I'his 
was  the  taste  of  the  times,"  says  the  author  we 
bare  just  quoted;  but  it  was  imagined  that  there 
was  a  mvstcry  concealed   in  these   changes   of 
names. 

At  this  period  these  literaiv  societies  first  appear : 
one  at  Rome  had  the  title  of  "  Academ> ,"  and  for 
its  chief  this  very  pomponius;  for  he  is  distin- 


'  ■iui-l.;  •!      >    ■■  ki  Hi  ::..i-    J'niu  (•;;■>    Ai .«(!(  nu.t.',"   \>\ 
I  111-,  iriir.d  V'  .itMii,  m  tlic  "  MivcII.hk-x  "  ol  tli.it 
I  clfi^int  M  ti()l.*r.    Till",  u.is  uti<ler  the  jm  ntiticatc  til 
Paul  11.    The  repil.ir  meetings  of  "  the  Academy  " 
MKm  excited  the  jealousy  and  suspicions  of  Paul, 
and  gave  ti<«e  to  one  of  the  moit  hornd  persecu- 
tions and  scenes  ol  torture,  e\  en  to  deatli,  in  which 
these  academicians    were  involved.     1'hi>  closed 
with  a  decree  ol  Paul's,  that  for  the  f  .iture  no  one 
should  pronounce,  either  seriously  or  in  jest,  the 
very    name  of   academy,   under  the  i»cnalty    of 
heresy  I    The  story  is  told  by  Platin;*.  one  of  the 
suHerers,  in  his  Life  of  Paul  II. ;  and  a. though  tins 
histor}-  may  be  s;«d  to  t)ear  the   Irnises  of  the 
wounded  and  dislocated  Innly  of  the  Mnha)>py  hts- 
torian,  the  facts  arc  unquestionable,  and  connected 
with  our  subject.     PLitina,  Pomponris,  and  many 
of  their  friends,  were  ^ud(lenly  clraggrd  to  prison  ; 
on  the  first  and  second  dav  torture   was  applied, 
and  many  expired  under  the  hands  of  their  exe- 
cutioners.     *'  Yru   would   have   im  igined,"  says 
Platina,  "that  the  caMle  of  St.  Angeli  was  turned 
into  the  bull  of  Phalaris.  so  loud  the  follow  vault 
resounded  with  the  cries  of  those  miserable  young 
men,  who  were  an  honour  to  their  ag*  for  genius 
and  learning.    The  torturen>,  not  satist-ed,  though 
weary,  haxing  racked  twenty  men  in  those  two 
days,  of  whom  some  died,  at  length  sent  for  me  to 
talte  my  turn.    The  instruments  of  torture  were 
ready ;    I  was  stripped,  and  the  executioners  put 
therriselves   to    their    work.     Vianesius   sat    like 
another  Minos  on  a  seat  of  tapcstrv-work,  gav  as 
at  a  wedding ;  and  while  I  hung  on  the  r>\ck  in 
torment,  he  pLivcd  with  a  jewel  which  Sanga  had, 
asking  him  who  was  the  mistress  which  had  given 
Kim  this  love-token?    Turning  to  me,  he  asked 
*  why  Pomponio  in  a  letter  »hould  call  me  Holy 
Fatlier  ?     Did  the  conspirators  agree  to  m.ike  you 
Pope  ?'    *  Pomponio,*  I  replied,  *  can  Ixrst  tell  >*hy 
he  ga\e  me  this  title,  for  I  know  not.*    At  length, 
ha\  ing  pleased,  but  not  satisfied  himself  with  my 
tortures,  he  ordered   me  to  be  let  down,  that  I 
might  undergo  tortures  much  grcatcT  in  the  even- 
ing.   I  was  carried,  half  dead,  into  my  chamber ; 
but  not   long  after,  the  inquisitor  having  dined, 
and  being  froh  in  drink,  I  was  fetched  again,  and 
the    archbishop    of   Spalatro    was    there.     They 
inquired  of  my  conver!i;itions  with  Malatesta.     I 
said,  it  only  concerned  ancient  and  modern  learn- 
ing, the  military  arts,  and  the  characters  of  illus- 
tnous  men,  the  ordinary  subjects  of  conversation. 
I  was  bitterly  threatened   by  Vianesius,   unless  I 
confessed  the  truth  on  the  following  day,  and  was 
carried  back  to  my  c  hamber,  where  I  was  seized 
with  such  extreme  pain,  that  I  had  rather  have 
died  than  endured  the  agony  of  my  battered  and 
dislocated    limbs.       But    now    those    who    were 
accused   of   heresy   were    charged   with    plotting 
treason.     Pomponius    iK'ing    examined    why    he 
changed   the   names  of  his  friends,  he   answered 
))oldly,  that  this  was  no  concern  ol  his  judges  or 
the  pope ;  it  was  perhaps  out  of  respect  for  anti- 
quity, to  stimulate  to  a  virtuous  emulation.    After 
we  had  now  lain  ten  months  iii  prison,  Paul  comes 
himself  to  the  castle,  where  he  charged  us,  among 
other  things,  that  we  had  disputed  concerning  the 
immortality  of  the  soul,  and  that  we  held  the 
opinion  of  Plato ;  by  disputing  you  call  the  being 
of  a  God  in   question.    This,  I  said,  might 


n 


;',>< 


j:fi>i<Tij'i'>  TfTi.r.<  A<s[']fi:i>  i;y  Tin:  itaijas  ArAi>/:M/L>\ 


.!     », 


n,  .kc  tiic  T'.-tii  i\'f\.  >r,  trc',i;(.n!i\  ij'.;;.~tii  ii  the 
fxi'^tcncc  of  soiiU  anil  of  God,  and  of  all  SKrp. irate 
intelligences.  St.  Austin  says,  the  opinion  of  Plato 
is  like  the  f.iith  of  Christians.  I  followed  none 
of  the  numemus  heretical  f.ictions.  Paul  then 
accused  us  of  being  too  great  admirers  of  pagan 
ant  1^1  ui  ties ;  yet  none  were  more  fond  of  them 
than  himself,  for  he  collected  all  the  Matues  and 
sarcophagi  of  the  ancients  to  place  in  hir  palace, 
and  even  affected  to  imitate,  on  more  than  one 
occasion,  the  pomp  and  charm  of  their  public 
ceremonies.  While  they  were  arguing,  mention 
h.ippened  to  \ye  made  of  *  the  Academy,*  vhrr. 
the  Cardinal  of  San  Marco  cried  out  that'  we  were 
ntit  *  Academics,'  but  a  scandal  to  the  name ;  and 
Paul  now  declared  that  he  would  not  ha\e  that 
term  evermore  mentioned  under  pain  ol  here^v. 
He  k-ft  ut  in  a  passion,  and  kept  us  two  months 
longer  in  prison  to  complete  the  year,  as  it  seems 
he  had  sworn." 

Su(  li  is  the  interesting  narrative  of  Platina.  from 
which  wc  may  surely  infer,  that  if  these  learned 
men  assembled  for  the  communication  of  their 
studio-  in<|uiries  suggested  by  the  monuments  of 
anti(|uity,  the  tuo  learned  languages,  ancient 
authors,  and  speculative  points  of  philosophy — 
theM.*  objects  were  ;ttNOciated  with  others,  which 
terrified  the  jealousy  of  modem  Rome. 

Sometime  after,  at  Naples,  appeaad  the  two 
brothers,  John  Baptistc  and  John  Vincent  Porta, 
those  twin-spirits,  the  Castor  and  Pollux  of  the 
natural  philosophy  of  that  age,  and  whose  scenical 
museum  delighted  and  awed,  by  its  optical  illu> 
sions,  its  tre.isure  of  curiosities,  and  its  natural 
magic,  all  learned  natives  and  ioreigucrs.  Tlieir 
name  is  still  famous,  and  their  treatises  Df  hutnuna 
phyiiognomia  and  Magia  NaturaliSf  are  still  opened 
bv  the  cunous,  who  discover  these  children  of 
philosophy,  wandering  in  the  arcana  of  nature,  to 
them  a  world  of  perpetual  beginnings!  These 
learned  brothers  united  with  the  Marquis  of  ManMt, 
the  friend  of  Ta»o,  in  establishing  an  academy 
under  the  whimsical  name  d^gli  Ozioti  (the  Lazv), 
which  so  ill  descril)ed  their  intentions.  Tfi'is 
academy  did  not  sufiiciently  embrace  the  views 
of  the  learned  brothers,  and  then  they  formed 
another  undcT  their  own  roof,  which  they  appro- 
priate! \  named  di  Secnti ;  the  ostensible  motive 
w.Ls,  that  no  one  should  he  admitted  into  this 
interior  society  who  had  not  signalised  himself 
by  some  exi>eriment  or  discovery.  It  is  clear,  that, 
wh.it ever  thev  intended  by  the  project,  the  election 
of  the  memlx-rs  was  to' pass  through  the  most 
rigid  scrutin\ — and  what  was  the  consequence? 
The  court  of  Rome  again  started  up  with  all  its 
fears,  and  secreth  obtaining  information  of  some 
discussiiins  whicfi  had  passed  in  this  academy 
</i7j//  Sfcretlf  prohibited  the  Portas  from  holding 
such  assemblies,  or  applying  themseUes  to  those 
iilivit  sciences,  whose  amusements  are  criminal, 
and  turn  us  aside  from  tlie  study  of  the  Holy 
Scriptures.*  It  seems  that  one  of  the  Portas  had 
delivered  himself  in  the  style  of  an  ancient  oracle ; 
but  wh.it  was  more  alaiming  in  this  prophetical 
spirit,  several  of  his  predictions  had  been  actually 
verihed!    I'he  infallible  court  was  in  no  want  of  a 


.  —       « 


*  Niceron,  vol.  xliii.  Art.  Porta. 


iiinie   to   )vi>tit\   liimsclt,  .in*!,  ifiiitirif  tfi  w  I-  r  V.i, 
bead,   placed   his   tongue    in    the   lu^toci)    r.\   b.is 
Holiness,  and  no  doubt  preferred  being  a  mcmher 
o(  the  McaiUmia  degli  Otipst,  to  that  of  git  S/creu. 
To    confirm    this  notion    that    the^e    acidemia 
excited  the  je.ilnusy  of  those  despotic  states  of 
Italy,  I  find  that  ^e'veKU  of  them  at  Florence,  « 
well  ju  at  Sienna,  were  considered  as  danf^enwi 
meetings,  and  in  1568,  the  Medici  suddenly  im- 
pressed those  of  the  "  Insipids,"  the  "  Shy,'"  tbe 
"  Disheartened,"  and  othen,  but  more  partjcnlartjr 
(he  "  Stunned,"  gU  /ntronati,  which  excited  kmd 
laments.    We  have  also  an  accnnnt  of  an  acadeny 
which  called  itself  the  Lantfmutt,  from  the  cir- 
ciimsuince  that  their  first  meetings  were  beU  at 
night,  the  academicians,  not  carrying  torchet,boi 
only   Lanterns.    This    academy/  indeed,  vs  at 
Toulouse,  but  evidently  formeii  on  the  model  of 
its  neighlxiurs.    In  tine,  it  cannot  be  denied,  that 
these  literary  societies  or  academies  were  frcqoentir 
objects  of  alarm  to    the    little    gin'cmnwntt  of 
Italy,  and  were  often  interrupted  by  political  per* 
secution. 

From  all  these  facts  I  am  inclined  to  drav  an 
inference.    It  is  remarkable  th.it  the  nrst  Itilijo 
academies  were  only  distinguished  by  the  rimpic 
name    of   their    founders;    one    was   called  the 
Academy  of  Pomponius  L«etus,  anfither  of  Panor- 
mita,  &c.    It  was  after  the  melancholy  fate  of  the 
Roman  academv  of  Lvtus,  which  could  not,  h<nr« 
ever,  extinguish  that  gniwing  desire  of  creating 
literary  societies  in  the  Italian  cities,  from  which 
the  members  derived  both  honour  ind  plejisiiit, 
that  suddenly  we  discover  these  academies  hearing 
the  most  fantastical  titles.    I  have  not  found  any 
writer  who  has  attempted  to  stolve  this   extra- 
ordinary  appearance  in  literary-  history,  and  the 
difficulty  seems  great,  because,'  however  fri%'nlons 
or  fantastical  the  titles  thc>'  assumed,  their  mem- 
bers were  illustrious  for  rank  and  genius.    Tira- 
boschi,  aware  of  this  diflicult}-,  can  only  expnas  | 
his  astonishment  at  the  absurdity,  and  his  vexa- 
tion at  the  ridicule  to  which  the  Italians  ha\-e 
l>ecn  exposeii  by  the  coarse  jokes  of  Menkenius  in 
his  Charlalanaria  Kruditorum.*    I  conjecture,  that 
the  invention  of  these  ridiculous  titles,  for  literary 
societies,  was  an  attempt  to  throw  a  sportive  veil 
over  meetings  which  h.ul  oLirmed  the  papal  and 
tlie  other  petty  courts  of  Italy  ;  and  to  quiet  their 
fears,  and  turn  aside  their  'political  wrath,  they 
implied  the  innocence  of  their  pursuits  bv  the 
jocularity  with  which  the  members  treated  them- 
selves, and  were  willing  that  others  should  treat 
them.    This  otherwise  inexplicable  nation.U  levity 
of  so  refined  a  people  has  not  occurred  in  any  othi^ 
country,  because  the  necessity  did  not  exist  anv- 
where  but  in  Italy.    In  France,  in  Spain,  and  in 
England,  the  title  of  the  ancient  AcAncatvs  was 
never  profaned  by  an  adjunct,  which  svstem.iticaily 
dcgraded  and  ridiculed  its  venerable  character,  and 
its  illustrious  members. 

*  See  Tiraboschi,  vol.  vii.  cap.  iv.  Acemdemit, 
and  Quadrio's  Delia  Storia  e  drlia  Ragtone  J^fni 
Poesia.  In  the  immense  receptacle  of  these  seven 
quarto  volumes,  printed  witn  a  small  tvpe,  the 
curious  may  consult  the  roluminous  InJex,  art. 
Atcademia. 


OH  TtlE  llESO  OF  HUnrBRAS;  BUTLER   VlSDICATED. 


LonK  inei  thn  ankle  ta  finished,  I  hid  an 
epportunlly  nf  cnnaulitng   an  eminent   lulan, 

unly  lo  outaingh  mine  i  bul  although  it  ii  in- 

the  opiniDa  of  a  aaiiie  of  hn  hista  icuulrciiKnts. 
It  ii  not  u  ca^  Cor  me,  on  utii  ohaL-UTe  atid 
irnrioib  iuti>ec1,  la  nHinqnbh  m>'  mi'n  Lonjcclure. 
I  II  Sigr.  FuKULO  Ii  of  OFinicin.  Ihal  the  vioin 
of  Ihe  faplaMkal  lillci  numcd  b^  the  lulVan 

d  df  the  air  of  pc4>nnir,  and  lo  In^niutc  IhA 
Ttaia  opinion  iiu)r  ntiify  an  Italian,  and  thii  he 


HnMjr  "  Hockheadi- 


«  that  ibcr  had  their  rodiI  mviNi 


VINDICATED. 

hdf  heen  recmllyenuuml  Tor  etposinir  to  ridlcuJe 
Ihc  Sit  SaniDcl  Luke  under  whne  ronT  he  dwell, 
■n  the  Kmteiqut  chancier  of  bb  hero.  Thekuow- 
KdKBof  Uk  aiXK  in  our  Iilcniy  hiitDTy  i>  tMI 
cunoui  beaneanto  hare  adtanced  no  runh>.-T, 
than  10  tiivc  taken  up  the  Hnt  opinion  he  found ; 


planned  the  lliuUhru,af  which  be  wai  pleated 
make  hii  tud  and   taipiluMi  palnm  Ihe  beiD. 

anecjnte,""— u  It  it  muliTooi   he   malcbed '. 

Ibey  are  win  and  latiriW  i  their  friends  too  often 


cule  .a.  leHitinale  a. 
poet  had  cspouaed  hu 

from  the  pumi  motito 
and  fanuicil  bypocrip:, 


Km   al  the  e. 


n   telh.   that  a   friend  of    Butler': 

r  k«cwel1,  of  Ford  Ahbey,  In  Ihat  cci 
a  curinuB  bfe  of  onr  leaiiKd  wit,  i 
meral  Dictionary  \  the  writer,  pro 
t,  iiuHk  the  nntl  aulheniie  rt— 


"When  BijiLcaurolehliHudibru,a>»l7ta,  Rulb, 

it  i»  bij^ly  piobalile,  th^t  it  was  lbi>  eentlcnun, 
and  not  Sir  Samuel  Luke.  wIidh:  penon  he  had  in 
hii  e}'e.    The  reason  that  he  gave  Cor  callini;  iiis 

lutelar  laini  of  Devonihire  wai  Hu^h  lU  Brgt."  I 
do  not  Ihink  lightly  of  thia  authority,  which  ii 
the  Giub^treel  Journal,  Januaiyj  1731 1  a  periodical 
papa  of  merit,  conducted  by  two  eminent  literary 
phyiiciaiu,  under  tlie  appropriate  names  of  Bv'ius 
and  Mati'iWt*  and  which  far  some  time  enlieened 


Viwil.  and 
as  hit  puM 


j6o                                SHEySTOyrS  SCHOOlUrSTRESS.                                     1 

inelf  -  the  poet  win  once  belter  tnown  under  the 

denounced,    "  Ow   Samuel   lutlet,    1   celebrated 

cUli  him  "  Hudib™  Butlet  ;'■   and  if  .nj  one 

miul  look  Iw  1  nime  he  i>   not  KCiutonvnl  to 

ndiculei  ill  Ille  cracinui  promisei  by  mmparinft 

lind  imong  Kngliifa  .uihon-thil  of  HiiJi*t»i ' 

One  r«t  iireniirkible;  (hit,  Jike  Cemnlei,  and 

aictiic  spirii  ii  Mill  desctndmg  among  ui  from  the 

monkerj-  of  Ihc  deaerti,  adding  poignancy  lu  Ihe 

•Titten  a  snRk   pituee  of  indetenl   nhildn. 

j^^.™«r.^wh'STouW^^h«e^^^™chJir 

■hkh  we  deemed  nhnlcle,  we  find  UiU  applicable 

The  F;akT  p:irt  nf  Hudibras  a  the  moM  perfect ; 

We  knoK  Iblile  more  of  Citlir  ih^rn  wc  du  d( 

Shaknpeare  and  of  Spenvr  '      Longuei  ille,  the 
be  »  inlimilelv  knew,  indwho  bequeiihed  to 

»il.  of  leam.nB.  and  of  leijure.     A  mind  of  Ibe 

pcn«i>Dr)ialilicalandFel.Ri<iiiihiitoi>.    BnLia 

LourueiUte the  onlv tencv  a  DCKlected  poel  eonld 

-Remain.--    Hh  rriend  uiempted  lo  bury  bim 

al  iu  lentth,  hu  »lemB  tones  wen  raacd  to 

but  be  »aj  tompelkd  lo  eoni.gn  the   bani  lo  an 

ohuun    burial-plarc   m    Paul'^    Cment  Canlen. 

changed  1  the  poet.  Ihe  lubjcet.  and  the  p-lron  ! 

probably  eieileiliDmc  compctillon  i  anil  the  Cr>l- 

The  Did  Iheme  of  Ibe  9ectaru1>  bad  loii  ib  fmh- 

^^■^"n  pubhSled.     Ifil  beDl:.»l>-.,^iS 

Tarlulfa.     BuILla  appean  lo  have  turned  aade. 

have  been  compaacd  al  one  of  hii  moK  lucul 

HliiicS  an^f."  TTi^^i'er^d  dMlge^r  Hudi^ 

Near  thi.  Blate  Via  inlennj 
The  body  o/  Mr.  Samuel  Butkr, 

curean,  who  !lep«  on  hiithrone,  diBOlted  .n  the 

In  which  he  knew  no  Guide. 
And  ha>  IbunI  no  Followen. 

Ihe  new  manmn  of  thii  wretched  coun;  and 

Ihit  Bi:TL(a  hid  become  the  uiiciK  uf  the  partv 
wtuHC  rauK  be  bad  formerly  w  bonettly  espnuicd, 

age  of  Charlct  the  &e«nd,  conlrBlcd  wiih  the 
puritanical  one  thai  pteecded  It."    Thil  then  a 

To  Ibii  too  brirf  article  1  add  >  proof  thai  thai 

baUicim,  which  is  branded  by  oui  immonal 

Ihe  greater  glory  of  BtTna.  that  hit  hith  and 

indignant  ipiril  equally  lal.riml  the  hypocnlH  of 

lilPbk  jvgoni  yiat  u  coniafDan  keepa  up  Ibe 

plague  in  TuAey  by  h-ing  hid  in  »me  obKuie 

SHENSTONE-S  SCHOOLMISTRESS. 

tchool  to  which   we  are   alludine,  declare]  of 
he  haJ  Be.™  been  bom,  for  thai  thouun^  will 

HDWofihefelicilieiaf  geniui;  but  tbe  puipne 

delight  which  the  pta.a  of  Shakcqieve  miniitered 

ahttrm,  "  1  know  nnl  what  cLum  it  hai  lo  Hand 

And  we  have  anolher  of  Bvrua.  in  -  An  hiMoeic 

im«^  the  onia'  ■atrli,"    The  Jruib  is  thai  it 

defence  of  eupmmenial  reltoion;"  in  which  the 
author  conlendi.  thai   the   best  men  hare  ex- 

author, and  Uodile) ,  the  edilur  of  bi>  worts  mu« 

perienced  Ibe  H|Kw:y  of  the  Hiriy  Spirit  in  an 

•  Tbii  work,  published  in  159).  is  cunous  lor  tbe 
miteriaU  the  wiiier'i  reading  bu  collected. 

1  Tbe  ca«  of  King  l^larla  Ibe  FiM  Itulv  uaicd 

acainit   John   Cook.  miMcr  of  Cny-t  inn,  ui 

•  See  Qnaneily  Keview,  ™l.  riii.p.  iii. 

^ler'.-Ren.aina.-'                               * 

SBENSTONE-S  SCHOOLMISTBESS. 


of  pwlry  tin  lectntly  'mre  in  our  biiieiuec,  ind 

ityleMitbjingllngTtiymo,  to  which  wcAtuch  our 
idea  of  a  burloque  poepi.  There  IB  %  refined 
tpecia  of  liidicTou  poctn,  which  li  comic  y?v 
tender,  luHry  yet  elecnnf,  ind  with  jucb  a  blend- 
ing of  the  Krioiu  uxTlhc  hcctloiu,  that  the  rcnih 
ofiuch  ■  poem  ttay  otten,  among  iaoifaerpJei- 

not  ihravi  know  whether  lEe  oritet  ii  laughitiH 
n  bb  Hil^l,  or  whether  be  li  lo  be  laughed  at. 

Sdwolmbtrev  "  of  SHi^rsrONE  hat  beeo  admired 
fiir  iu  limpUeH)^  and  tendemeis,  tut  lot  \a  a- 

"na  dixmery  1  owe  to  the  good  fonnne  of 
p«ealtt|E  the  origliul  edition  of  "The  School- 


n  lincy.    To  this 


n  jnctioni,  and  tr 


■he  fdol,  bis  lutHenuei 

suppteaa  thfi  amualnz  "  ludicroiu  Index,"  and  the 

CDriae<|Deiice  ia.  e  toe  poet  roreaawj  that  his  aim 

may  he  traced  in  the  printed  coneipondence  of 
Shinhtoki-    Out  poet   had  pLeaxd  htnuclf  by 

"  KvmLy  "  iksigiu  of  hu,  and  ^ir  which  be  came 
to  town  to  direct  the  engrmver ;  he  appears  alw 
to  hare  intended  accompanying  it  wl'"' ""*-   '" 

formed    portrait  of  my  old  tchooli -., 

Lloyd."    The  fronliipiece  to  this  lint  edit 
prescnli  ibe  "  IbaKhed  he 


ool-damc.  Sarah 


ID  hl^lj-  I 


lami^let  that 
iving  nothing 


id  his 


oeiRhbouThood  and  In  Wanrickshire  ll 
tic  twenty  of  my  poems  lold'  I  print 
I  am  pleued  with  Myndc's  engravings.' 

On  the  poMiciiian  Shikstoki  has  opened  h 
idea  on  Its  poetical  cbarHCte-islic.  "  1  dare  say  11 
must  be  very  incorrect  [  lor  1  hare  added  eight  « 

other.    If  it  itrdt^  any,  11  musi  be  merely  peoplr 

of  foijf ;  lor  people  of  v.''-  -■^- —  -^.'-^ 

comprehends  the  larger  p. 
will  nnatotdahty  dnpiie  i1 
P«n'  w  "J™"  "'»«"'  '"•" 
be.  I  hiK  added  a  '  h.l< 
show  (foob)  Itaal  1  am  in 


oflhecri 


see  eiery  body  knows 

or  low  species 

tn 

mal'i.^'^be  aacA  SmL^f^y, 

ri-f-F. 

«r£. 

been  plagued 

Tiulh  is,  thai  what  is  placed  in  the  Undskip  nrer 
the  thalcbed  bouse,  and  the  birch-tree,  la  like  a 
falling  monter  TRilicr  than  a  selling  sun ;  hut  the 
fruil-piece  at  the  end,  the  grapes,  the  jdnms,  Ibe 

made  sufficiently  remptidg.    This  editiuD  couulns 

omitted^  and  they  hare  also  passed  throtigli  many 
correctkms,  and  loitie  improremenli,  which  sliow 
that  SHaiiaTQriB  had  more  judgment  and  felicity 
In  severe  currccllon,  than  perhaps  is  swipecteJ. 


BEX  JOySON  ox  TBANSLATWS. 


The  pkty  of  Ihc  p 


a  froin  Ihc  SdHOI- 


uuptiilBg  mnueacc 

PLilft.'^anriii^thc 

VOL.  Willi  >  ihnn  ikcKb  of  the  sat 


A  i-ico  or  ths  iiL-ui.  roitnATi  u  utcd  in 
her  chait  of  n<te,  confming  hukuum, 
diitributing  MUKTiM,  (nd  diipcning  pmi. 


[Thii  lunia  hs  been  left  oul  in  the  laler 
editiDEU;  i(  trfcn  id  (he  Ihikc  of  ATQle.l 


Wjing  nil  eomplimcnn  to  ■  piitiriiLir 
:DiiTiti'.  which  he  giidly  xiia;  (onrlwl- 


«  poem  hy  thb  greit  poet 


no  Ingloriou 
be  joiidedb)  Ae  ™i 


ling  into  anof  her,  and  (he  i 


Hop,,,  lOlJ. 
Who  tncki  thii  lulhon  or  t 


nbh  PTDieiu  1  who,  though  w 


general  Mmrnou  i  followi «  particuUT  de-  \  And  hith  Ibe  i 

AndrfDrtilKaliDm  of  in  iii>iiN'BiiLi  i8  .  Upon  ii,  but  « 

A  nTprnin^  pictuR  of  luierty  iitfeclion  by  I  As  t  defonned 


For  though  Spainc  ga*c  him  hit  lint  « 
I  He  Aould  be  call'd.  hencefonh,  tht  Euliiil 


TBE  LOVES  OF  -  THE  LAKY  AEADLLl.A.' 


Hul  would  bive  (kHK|  thit,  wbkh  VCD  nnly  caal    cnnfuwHi,  lonii;  binii  rh^l  ifae  Lfttlr  Afti 

PIN  Joxtort.       wu  A  leajnnl  woin.iii.tii4  nf  a  pricticjl  k 

,  thouMh  tven  ihc  wntw  liinnclf^  ^tl^o  h«l  ivi 


So  KJICly  hjr  the  Ttumn'i  fide, 
For  maDjr  A  dijr  had  ut  jioJ  fiKhcJ. 
And  u  tb«  heird  fbc  mtn  ime. 
As  f«*t  did  bure  hvr  hcirtEelie  !U;lic4, 

IProbably  wiiitcn  by  M 


LI hnle  nfc  of  Ibii  lidf  icenn  lo  okmi  (.r  vcmt    ■k', )»  li 

ititorv,  wtakh,  pnbaUv,  we  cuBOI  nmr  Knie      "^ 

rhc  wiiten  who  hire  Tcotund  to  wcjxt  bii^bi 
KT  kAie  and  mtttrcd  ftiiry  ire  imhicwnH  u 
ry.  How  (wh  lUiiht  domnUc  Inciikn 
comritcd  of  could  pnxlucc  leMiIti  • 


'DmpJi^h^wnt>,  tha  I  tbcukl  iHil  hiic  m 

HilKin^  Dqfbew>   intiulnwd  Ltr  an 


_.  uKb  iimi^  I 

ibeth,  pliced  near  the  tbm 


nujr  alwiyi  excite  our  cuiwiitk.  Her  name  Koubnii.  "Her  ilnnblenilMiun  to  nijlii,' 
vmelv  ever  occur  without  riHO:  >bai  witt  of  iSt.  IjxUdc,  "vBeriuallvolmnninu^i'.  thij.'. 
intctol  which  accompankt  nyitL-rtniu  nents  iif  EbriU-th,  nnd  Ibe  tiniiditv  M  Jjrio,  am 
and  mem  pBiiciitiriy  when  me  diMiner  thatthn  .-oil-iIi  dn.-.iilcd  iIm:  >uv)iiKd'rl:iiiu<T  m  bir  li 
ladir  to  w  frequently  alluded  to  by  ht-r  fLrui^  ■  a  ki;iiiin4Te  iiH-^intf.''  Vi-r  Ijnttn  UiTn'rll 
cnntcnwinrie^.  ■unnpirrtLd.i'ivii^'^-rlfi^  ilie  IiusI.ithI  nt  ihi- 

faJkD  inin  ihe  cfDve^t  etnr^.    Herilmi  hhhiriin  ^  whrpin  lie  liid  (Tr.irifl  iinku  nf  Lf'ii'p>.  -ut 

Tclaiive  to  her.  lie  applinl  lo  1l.e  LJUy  AnArklX-s  l.itjl  rkvat  wbnh  lern-imird  if  wri  n  imr 
the  defcclilc  andtrRtan^a);  and  he-MWnini!  dn-  Siu-li  u>t  llie  m:i  ivt -jiTiiij  i,ii  Klaaih  hiT  ihi 
pnaitKnii  of  her  uinlr  the  Countna  ol  Hlirei^v  j  MtA  licr  ml^toTtiiBn  mt.hvil. 
hutvi  and  by  another  mnconcciili'.n  nf  *  term.  |  'fbtfrfi^-vl  mal<  h  w»  d«nUe  to  rill  p: 
••  I  think,  aiacm  that  Ibe  Lady  AtalwlLi  »ai  dn-  hut  there  w,  •  one  iirealir  Ili^n  llieiii  all, 
liagnidied  neilher  Ibt  beauty,  nor  intellectual  loilud  Itie  tun-.  Cli/atictb  lii>cT])f«rd  ;  'h 
<|nal>t>a.t    Thii  authnrituite  deciwn  peti>lc»d   vii-uned  Ibe  Ladv  Arabelbi,  ami  ur'.nld  mil 


i   uriHined  Ibe  Ladv  Arabella,  am]  wnnld  i 
-   ii.F  lip  III  the  imi,  of  ulHim  >lie  ^ 


It  lit  lilnria 


t  Horant.  in  the  Bin^pl>i<>  Bril'nnK).    Tlih   Would  it  not  lie  almiid  lo  amly  l'^(t.l.c.' 

Ipma  MundcT  bat  been  deruited  In  Mr.  LuIkc.    nHilern  wnv  In  a  Jjmil}  i,r  fc-nu  '    Ah'I 

cnotcmpocai]!  lettecwrilir.  Mllmlini;  lu  Ihe  Htidit .  nM  liaie  Uvn  dimin;>lieil  lit  tl'ir  «jnt  lil 
of  AnbetU  and  Dnmiur,  oLirb  aLmnrd  Uie'^nin  in  ibew  I'lti-is.  t  iln  ii'l  I'l'ili 
Soolthh  ao  mi.cb  more  Ihm  Ihe  knj;li<h  pane,   aulhonly  luc  ihc  Kn-^  i-l  unt'iirtil  iii  i.|i 


n>ei  ibi^m.  Ill 
ir  ftrmnt  aa4  their  Aaniff. 


THE  LOVES  OF  "  THE  lADT  ASABELLA." 


nn,  hvwcd  be?  when  dw  wm  lyinc  apmhL 
ic»pcil  tbe  knowledge  of  her  nuincnniihiftori 


Ibii  ppisdc^  project  of  plMing  an  luliu  cudinil 


eHiApa  i1  WJI  her  Firnch  and  Spinuh  jllia  i 
□aLlj'  hulcned  the  political  iranyTdam  o 


when  Jtma  t.  ucended  Ihc  Engliih  (hione, 
Ibere  eiiiled  an  Anti-Scotluh  pun.  HudJf  lud 
the  Dnrthcni  moMTCb  enwrcd  inio'lbc  "  Luid  of 
Pmmiie,^'  wben  hit  nuthem  rhrone  wu  ihaken 

n^dlei"  il  ^volTcd  Kaolelich. ind  unapcctcdly 
the  Luy  Arabella.    The  scoKiih  mnnarch  was  10 


ber,  TC<)uatia|(  Jcnen  id  be  adilreiKd  to  the  King 
of  Spain,  >be  If ugbed  at  Ihc  IritcT  ihe  received, 
and  Kill  il  to  Ihe  King.    Thm  for  ,  m.M  lime 

Thii  occntied  In  ifcj.  b.rt  »a^llm«d"iy°DO 
that,  tot  the  MrS  Umi.  ihe 'lady  wa  oXcted  1 

may  j-ouc  pnnccs  of  Ihc  bkmd  grow  a  great 
queen,  and  Ihen  ue  ihall  be  lafc  (mm  1*1  iangn 
if   muiufrrimtiag    Ullirt,—    Thil    laH   pasage 

*' Ihe  danger  of  minopencnbing  tellcxa?"' 
If  Ihit  ra)-al  orler  wasevel  made,  il  wai  cerl^nly 

come  finin  the  lady,  who,  we  ihall  lee.  teveo 
yean  aAervardi,  complained  Ihat  the  king  had 
neglected  her  in  not  pTotiding  her  with  a  luiuble 


bim  hi)  father-!  si 


exparied  10  Eacililatc  the  cofwiueit  of  England  by 
been  the  judges,  or  the  atowed  enemici  of 


THE  LOVES  OF  "  THE  LADT  ARABELLA." 


pibLc  ind  rinivilng  at  Ihc  momenT  of  Approach. 

dqKttdcnt  on  the  kitig^  bounty^  which  Uo^vcd 
Tvry  onequnlly;  oncn  rnlncd  to  pvit  pcnonal 
dMni,  we  rind  hy  her  lellcn,  Itut  "  she  ptaycd 
for  pmmt   monw,  dwu^   tt  should   not   be 

gnntedfaer  %  pciuLoD,  The  myil  fixiMin,  hnw- 
ever,  iftTg  piobabty  limited  to   her   pmd  be- 

From  1604  to  1608,  h  a  period  which  form  a 

rear  tba  unfortunate  lady  had  again  fAllcn  out  of 

ended)  and  the  re«OTwl  to  her  former  place  and 

Co.     The  fcing  gave  her  a  cupboard  ai  plate, 

marks  In  pay  bcr  debts,  l>c»da  ■ome  yearly 
addition  to  her  maintenance,  want  heing  (houehl 
the  cMefeM  caoK  of  her  diaconteniineni,  though 
^  tit  ntt  tltt^lher  Jrtt  from  luipattn  ^  'wtf 


tn>X'<een>in 


t  appKucG  Uiai  < 


to  probable  that  the  kinjE,  from  wime  political 
tve.  had  decided  ihai  the  Lady  Arabetla  ihould 

a  tingle  life ;  but  »uch  wise  pDipow  fre- 
Illy  meet  wilb  cm*  ana ;  and  it  happened 

9e  (o  ii.    Every  noble  yoath,  who  ^Rhed  lor 

riage  for  hene^f,  that  a  cnunier  of  thai  dliy 


"ivokiteii 

ffivipH  1  rrude 

belU.    SkMne'i 
Mr.  Lodge  hi 


by  Ballard,    The  < 
enlioned  of  1600^.  10 

Wemortali,  iii.  111- 


kd  VITtUOlU  diUKHitln 

The  reielArtUiriflr 
c  Lady  ilftbella  foe 


ral.    charieil.  cnMied  hiin  Narnidinr  Hetllord, 

Thii  Ireaty  of  maniaffe  waa  delected  In  Fe- 
bruaty,  i6a9,and  the  parlicBwininniied  before  Ihe 
privy  council.  Aeymourwaa  partitiitarly  censured 
for  dafini!  10  ally  blnuelF  wiih  ihe  royal  Muud, 
allhough  that  blood  WA  runninfE  in  hi^own  veim. 

SevnuHiraddrvaied  the  lurdiof  the  pri«>  cnvnciL 
Tlte  wyle  ia  bumbki  the  plea  10  euiiie  hK  .n- 
tended  marriage  la,  thai  being  but  "  A  young 
brother,  and  Bcniible  of  mincoungtiodt  unlinowrn 

lenge  anything  by  my  hinhrlgbt,  and  tlprrefore 

andirtbea  lady  of  great  bonmir  anil  iirtue,  and, 
as  I  thought,  of  great  mean%  t  tbd  plainly  and 
huneatly  endeamor  lawfully  In  gain  her  m  ma^ 
riage."  There  is  nothing  roirumic  in  Ihn  apology, 

humeri   which,  hovever,  waa  probably  done  lo 

he  had  early  known.  He  wn,  Ihnt  "he  cnn- 
ccrved  that  tliu  noble  lady  mlgtil,  without  nllence, 
make  Ihe  choia  of  my  wh)Ki  within  ihn  kin);- 
j^_  .--hieh  eooMit  waa  b^pitten  Ir  — '  — ^-  - 
ipnn.  after  her  bdyihip'i  lai.  .  - 
ar  l>nMiu,t  that  it  might  be." 

■  -'  "■ ieal  wortUB— "I  b"~'i  ■■- 

'  ladyihlp^  chamber  in  the 
day  bnl,  at  wbat  lime  I  im- 
hcr,  wbkh  waa  entertained. 


birtwiih'tl...  _ 

ui  resolved  not  Id  piKeed  1 


ul  a  leeond  meeting  at  B^igg^'s  h»u<>e  in 
I.  and  then  a  third  al  Mr.  Bai^inn-s; 
lich  we  had  the  like  conference  and  re- 
It  before."  He  VHim  their  Innhhip4 
-   -       ^    •  ;nded  marriage 


Winwood't  Memorials,  Vol 
Thii  eiidenlly  alludn  I 
w  nameaopeart  nnt,  whii 


J66 


THE  LOVES  OF  "  THE  LADY  ARABELLA.' 


coTCTcd  'boat  JuLy  in  the  faklowinf^  ^Tir-  TTwy 
vm  Ifarn  vcpv^Tely  cnneiiwd,   the   \ai<i    jt   the 

■eimour  in  Ihe  Tower,  fer  ■'htf3fclmipt  in 
TnifTjlng  •  Indy  oC  itK  tojal  limily  AlliDul  Ihe 

•niH,  Iheir  Br*  mnfincmenl,  wu  nol  rieoniui  ^ 
The  tidT  w  iLkcd  \a  her  Ardtn.aad  Ihe  Jd^tt  «b 

the  BiDgnphu  InlMinnici  ohttnTi.  tb«<  '^Some 
knfcrcoDne  they  h»d  by  Irtte™,  whkh,  iftcr  ■ 
lime,  VB  dnt-arered."  Jn  Ihu  hmuny  of  kiiT 
IbcK  miAhl  be  piecinm  docnmenls,  iiid  in  the 
hbniy  it  I.(mp4eil,  tbew  Jove  epitlleit  cr  per- 

Anbe1l>>  epHlnLirv  lAKnl  urai  not  Miltf4T:  Dr- 
Monllbrd,  in  i  minuwripl  l.lier,  dexnln  one 
of  Ihoic  eHuHnm  shicb  AnbdU  •darcved  to 


mended  Ym  hn  hiKlincia,  nith  Ihe  ippliiuc  of 
Ihnieiecoireicd.  Tbc  ciKunnunce  k donenic, 
beiTiK  nothing  more  *[  ««  ih™  .  ^'^JT'^ 

pubellc  nrimnli  i  Ihe  tcmn*  uny  of  heitlt  » 

tinnli  jSiRcd.  while,  in  beriDbuty  impmnniTmil. 
Ihe  vciet  thoiwhi  thai  he  Ured  and  w*^  ber  own. 
iTlkd  her  ipml  nilh  that  conKioDinai  iihii-b 
inumphed  eyenerer  that  tickly  hame  n  nearly 


■  colO.    .. 


moch  »  Ihil  wed 


fifi  >f an  iviiH.  u  Marot  h>^wc  ni>y,  by  Cd< 
grace,  be  haptHer  (ban  we  loDk  ftic,  in  bcfnfc  h 
kied  to  cii)in-  ounelf  vflh  hli  trayea.y-%  Srroi 


jnjing  n  ar™  hlcHng  m  tnn,  «  Hule  awhile. 
Va  »VBt«tion  bal  thai  deprttei  me  of  Ihe  eom- 
fOitflfjrou.    FoT'-^ —  *—  —'-—*■-■ 


n  Wf<.    And  thai,  InJeed.  h 


tu  Iht  noble  owiKr  Ihe  pltdurv 


•m  luR  God-i  book  mentionelb  tntnj  o 


wriling  bul  vA 


heTunsin  defence  of  her  ierrr 
'ilhtbc  kinx  rnwhaiihei 


ton  Kverely  Irted  ■ 


ueglett  of  me,  my  gmd  liking  of  itii  genilemin 

impOMble  ttvaa  tor  mclo  fmagine  il  could  hi 
oHeiwre  to  yml  majotv,  hiTinK  /ni>  ieji  IvAn 
ttvin  M  IMT.  »ra{  a<fint  '•»»»»  "jatf  m  •■; 
"tint  V    jtv  m^ilf'i    IwhKh    '■■' 


"raSlwIS'i 


jma  nuioty  ic^rdcd  my 
mariHge  ai   an  ^    wucreaa  If  your    majealy   had 

fne^-ill  oifcrinn  ni  my  obedience,  I  would  not 

^SMKlneA  I  piewme  v  much.  That  if  "  u-err  iiav 
u  »>rL'<aif»    la  a  «->r     .  r«       .  aj  ™^'y^.^ 

good  might 


ndcBI  that  ei 


1,  tbough  our  jmoc 


ur  meof  iinllee  and  Tour  prine 


THE  LOVES  OF  «  THE  LADY  ARABELLAS 


367 


'With  my  wcaknen,  hare  caused  me  to  do  »ome- 
what  not  pleasing  to  your  majesty,  let  it  be  all 
corercd  with  the  riiadriw  of  j-our  royal  benignity." 
Anin,  in  another  petition,  she  writes, 

**  Touching  the  offence  for  which  I  am  now 
punished,  I  most  humbly  beseech  your  maje^y, 
ni  your  most  princely  wisdom  and  judgment,  to 
consider  in  what  a  miWrable  state  I  had  been,  if  I 
had  taken  any  other  course  than  I  did ;  for  my 
ovD  conscience  witnessing  before  God  that  I  was 
then  the  wife  ot  him  that  now  I  am,  I  could  never 
hare  matched  with  any  other  man,  but  to  have 
lived  all  the  d;tys  of  my  life  as  a  harlot,  which 
par  m^esty  would  hare  abhorred  in  anv,  espe- 
cially in  one  who  hath  the  honour  (bow  otherwise 
unf<Htunate  soo'cr)  to  hare  any  drop  of  your  ma- 
jesty^ blood  in  them." 

I  find  a  letter  of  Lady  Jane  Drummond,  in 
reply  to  this  or  another  petition,  which  Lady 
Dnimmood  had  given  the  aueen  to  present  to  his 
iTMjcsty.  It  was  to  learn  the  cause  of  Arabella's 
coflfinenient.  The  pithy  expression  of  James  the 
Fim  is  characteristic  of  the  monarch;  and  the 
solemn  forebodings  of  Lachr  Drummond,  who 
appean  to  have  been  a  lady  of  excellent  judgment, 
ifaowed,  by  the  fate  of  Arabella,  how  they  were  true! 

"  LAOT  JAXE   DRUMMOND   TO   LADY  ARBBLLA, 

Annvering  her  prayer  t»  kntnu  the  cause  ^f  her 
eonfinement. 

"This  day  her  majesty  hath  seen  your  lady- 
Atp's  letter.      Her  majesty  savs,  that  when  she 
pre  your  ladyship's  petition  to  h»  majesty,  he  did 
take  it  well  enough,  but  gave  no  other  answer 
tbao  thaty^  had  eaten  qA  'Ar  forbtdilen  tree.    This 
was  all  her  majesty  commanded  me  to  say  to  your 
iadnhip  in  this  purpose  ;  but  >fhithal  did  remember 
ber  kindly  to  >our  lad>'ship,  and  sent  you   this 
fittle  token  in  witness  of  the  continuance  of  her 
majesty's  favmir  to  your  ladyship.    Now,  where 
)otir  ladyship  desires  me  to  deal  openly  and  freely 
with  yon,  I  protest  I  can  say  nothing  on  know- 
M^,  for  I  never  spoke  to  any  of  that  purpose  but 
to  the  queen ;  hut  the  rvUdom  <tf  this  state^  ti/iM 
the  example  hotv  some  rfyour  quality  in  the  like  case 
has  been  used,  makes  me  fear  that  ye  shall  not  find 
w  easy  end  f  your  troubles  as  ye  expect  or  I  xfish." 
In  return.  Lady  Arabella  expresses  her  grateful 
thanks — presents  her  majesty  with  "  this  piece  of 
my  work,  to  accept  in  remembrance  of  the  poor 
pnsoner  that  wrought  them,  in  hopes  her  royal 
hands  will  vouchsafe  to  wear  them,  which  till  I 
have  the  honour  to  kiss,  I  shall  live  in  a  Kreat  deal 
of  sorrow.     Her  case,"  she  adds,  "could  be  com- 
pared to  no  other  she  ever  heard  of,  rcvrmbling  no 
other."     Arabella,  like  the  queen  of  Scots,  be- 
guiled the  hours  of  imprisonment  by  works  of 
embmidery  •  for  in  sending  a  present  of  tins  kind 
to  Sir  Andrew  Sinclair  to  be  presented  to  the 
queen,  she  thanks  him  for  *'  vouchsafing  to  de- 
scend to  these  petty  offices  to  take  care  o-en  of  J 
these  womanish  toys,  for  her  whose  serious  mind 
must  invent  some  relaxation."  | 

The  secret  corrtspondence  of  Arabella  and  Sey- 
mour was  dbcovered,  and  was  followed  by  a  sad 
scene.  It  must  hare  been  now  that  the  king  ' 
resolved  to  consign  this  unhappy  lady  to  the 
stricter  care  of  the  Bishop  of  Durham.  Lady 
Arabella  was  so  subdued  at  thb  distant  separation. 


that  she  gave  way  to  all  the  wildnest  of  despair ; 
she  fell  suddenlv'ill,  and  could  not  travel  but  in  a 
litter,  and  with  a  ph>'sician.  In  her  way  to 
Durham,  she  was  so  greatly  disquieted  in  the  first 
few  miles  of  her  uneasy  and  troublesome  joumev, 
that  they  would  proceed  no  further  than  to  High- 

fate.  The  ph%-<tician  returned  to  town  to  report 
er  state,  and  declared  that  she  was  avuredly  verv 
weak,  her  pui<ie  dull  and  melancholy,  ana  very 
irregular ;  her  countenance  very  heav\',  pale,  anil 
wan  ;  and  though  free  from  fcner,  he  declared  her 
in  no  case  fit  for  travel.  The  king  olwerved,  "  It  is 
enough  to  make  any  sound  man  siik  to  be  carried 
in  a  bed  in  that  manner  she  is ;  much  more  for 
her  'U'hose  impatient  and  unquiet  spirit  heapeth  upon 
herself  far  greater  indisposition  of  body  than  other- 
xvise  she  tvould  hafe."  His  reM>lution.  however, 
was,  that  "she  should  proceed  to  Durham,  if  he 
were  king  !"  "  We  answered,"  replied  the  dcKtor, 
"that  we  made  no  doubt  of  her  obedience."- - 
"Obedience  »  that  required,"  replied  the  king, 
**  which  being  performed,  I  will  do  more  for  her 
than  she  expecte<l."  * 

The  king,  howe%'er,  with  his  usual  indulgence, 
appears  to  have  consented  that  Lady  Arabella 
should  remain  for  a  month  at  Highgate,  in  con- 
finement, till  she  had  sufficiently  recovered  to 
proceed  to  Durham,  where  the  bishop  posted,  un- 
accompanied by  hb  charge,  to  await  her  recep- 
tion, and  to  the  great  relief  of  the  friends  of  the 
lady,  who  hoped  she  was  still  within  the  reach  of 
their  cares,  or  of  the  roval  favour. 

A  second  month's  delay  was  granted,  in  conse- 
quence of  that  letter  wfiich  we  have  Inrfore  n<>- 
ticed  as  so  impressive  and  so  elegant,  that  it  was 
commended  by  the  king,  and  applauded  by  prince 
Henry  and  the  council. 

But  the  day  of  her  departure  hastened,  and  the 
Lady  Arabella  betrayed  no  symptom  of  her  first 
despair.  She  openly  declared  her  resignation  to 
her  fate,  and  showea  her  obedient  willingness,  by 
being  even  over-careful  in  little  preparations  to 
make  easy  so  long  a  journey.  Such  tender  grief 
had  won  over  the  hearts  of  her  keepers,  who 
could  not  but  sympathise  with  a  princess,  whose 
love,  holy  and  wedded  too,  was  crossed  only  by 
the  tyranny  of  statesmen.  But  Arabella  haa  not 
within  that  tranquillitv  with  which  she  had  lulled 
her  keepers.  She  and  Seymour  had  concerted  a 
flight,  as  bold  in  its  plot,  and  as  beautifully  wild, 
as  any  recorded  in  nimantic  story.  The  day 
preceding  her  departure,  Arabella  found  it  not 
difficult  to  persuade  a  fefnale  attendant  to  consent 
that  she  would  suffer  her  to  pay  a  last  visit  to  her 
husband,  and  to  wait  for  her  return  at  an  ap- 
pointed hour.  More  solicitous  for  the  h-ippiness 
of  lovers  than  for  the  repose  of  kings,  this  atten- 
dant, in  utter  simplicity,  or  with  generous  s>m- 
pathy,  assisted  the  Lady  Arabella  in  dressing  her  in 
one  of  the  most  elaborate  disguisings.  "  She  drew 
a  pair  of  large  French-fashioned  hose  or  trowsers 
over  her  petticoats;  put  on  a  man's  doublet  or 
coat ;  a  peruke,  such  as  men  wore,  whose  long 
liKks  covered  her  own  ringlets;  a  black  hat,  a 
black   cloak,  russet   boots  with   red   tops,  and   a 

*  These  particulars  I  derive  from  the  manuscript 
letters  among  the  papenof  Arabella  Stuart.  Harl. 
Mss.  7003. 


■rannm^M 


THE  LOVES  OF  "  THE  LADT  ARABELLAT 


k  in  the  alicn>oan.     ^c  hid  only  procRd 


ffcnUcm^n  could  hudly  h 


of  bCipie,  Ihey  Unded  (o  rrrroh;  but,  [r 

SIhcir  freigbt,  rhcy  ruchcd  1^-    At  the 

frceduin  the  pow  ^otKueA  \  but  bn  aeici 


who  lay  ill  wiib  m  nging  toothache,  while  S< 
moaT  in  dlwuiv  4tolc  Jtwjiy  ^one,  foUowing  ■  c 
which  had  yiA  brougbl  wood  to  hit  iputmci 
He  puKd  the  warden  ^  he  Tviched  the  whmrf,  ■' 

the  diftjnce  he  (KKTie4  a  tcskI.  Hiring  a  (iiher- 
Run  to  lakehiEnon  bturd.  Id  hii  grief,  onhailitu 
it,  he  discOTfted  that  it  was  not  tne  Fmich  tcw 
charged  with  hit  Anbella ;  in  dnpiir  and  coufii 


hot  alann  whkh  ipnad  mii  leem  ludicroiu  to  u 
The  noHtkal  coDieiiDenca  utached  ta  the  unia 
and  the  Higbl  of  IhcK  iwo  doves  fiom  their  cote 


angry  and  riTidicnve,  thai  it  reiioired  the  m 
cealcd  the  tenor  of  bis  ma^cHv.    By  the  adi 

taipBon,  which  warned  them  of  the  et 


Mr.  FraDc:is  Seymour  to  his  jraniifarh 


wnlleo  in  a  small  haiul,  and  lining  more 
wo  fobo  p^n,  su^-h  was  his  agitation,  that 

ily  had  not  read  !  the  lellcr  is  scorched,  and 
mc  has  perfnrjled  it  in  socrilicalapan,that 
or  old  eart  joiimej-cJ  to  lown  in  a  state  cH 


Benitot  tbe  Du^e  of  Somenet  the  protector,  had 


who  were  near  the  crown  "should  be  narrowly 

moumfiU  on  (he  seas,  not  praying  for  EarourabLe 

ing  her  tipht  to  me  point  of  the  horitan  for  sotne 
week  which  mighl  ^ve  a  hope  of  the  approach  of 

note  was  AraheUa  to  cast  a  single  look  on  her 
3ver  and  ber  husband  r     She  wai  averlahen  by  a 

iDw  she  dcdarefTEhal  she  cared  not  to  be  brought 

scape,  whos;  safely  was  dearest  to  her  1 
The  life  of  the  unhappy,  the  melinchoLy,  and 

nd  the  violence  of  her  feelings  sunk  beneath  the 
iciani.  and  lo  wear  away  the  fHter  ifshe'cDurd, 

what  passed  in  that   dreadlnl   impriionmeni 
snnot  perhaps  be  recovered  Ibraulhentic  hislofy  ■ 


ftagrnmls  of  her  pipers.  In  a  leirer  she  proposed 
"lis  majesly'i  favour  again,  she  sa>i, "  Good,  my 
leither  can  any  more  be  required  of  any  earthly 


DOMESTIC  HISTORY  OF  sm  EDWARD  COKE. 


appcm  by  ADoUicr  Ji^ 
■faaulil  be  vIolEnil/  Int 


,  dcilTiniE  nothlnK  but  mercy  iinil  Tjivour,  not 
L^   more   Ulijtlrd   for  anything  ttun   for  the 


r  my  olbn  validly  ta 


to  u,  WAi  n  impoTUnI  penoaaw,  dp^gncd  by 
othcn,  at  Itaitj  to  pb^  a  hio^k  chincter  in  the 

ber  vcin»  while  ihc  Bvcil  ^n  ihc  pm'eny  erf  de- 
pendence. ManygAiluiE  ipiria  upired  iltct  her 
hiiiiil.  but  wiwn  tier  heiirt  tccrTtlr  telecttd  one 
beloved,  it  wu  for  ever  deprived  of  Amantie 
happineu  1    She  it  uH  not  to  am  bceu  boiulifult 


AJUHELUt  hj9  no  ulpAbk  hisforlai  exiiteticei 
ind  wc  pcTcdve  TUncr  ber  vhodow  cbui  bermlf  I 


been  deepened  Dy  ^tcir  royalrv,  tnd  wboie  id- 
veniurni,  touebed  with  the  wirni  bun  of  Inn 

UnK  -.  k  lul  e^ple  or  1  fenule  yiclira  u>  the 

"TbnnjghODc  dim  LUHfc,  rring'd  whfa  ivy  muiul. 

To  ntsrk  how  tut  ber  wini^  beauty  hew  I" 
.   Seyicov'ii,  wbo   wu  iltenrudB  pcnnKteil   lo 


return,  iititioiiui«hed  biimclf  br  bu  In 
through  [HiEC  lueccHR  ingni  and  reliino 
rouuQIIc  pauion  for  Ihelidyof  faiabntaflect 
ror  be  ealled  the  diughler  he  hid  by  hit  if 
kidy   by  the   evcr-ticlevcd   name  of  Ahai 


lor  DA  ika^  woTthy  of  tbclr  geDius  hat  punued 
Ihelr  itory.  BacuH,  hoiied  with  nuiure,  (nqfot 
bicrvelfi  Conn,  who  wh  only  the  erealai  of 
Liwyim,  Kfleeud  with  more  ftunftiacency  on 
birriidf ;  for  "among  IboK  thlny  hooki  which  be 


proopect  of  hff  life  pAit."    'nkitminiiicriptj  which 
Lloyd  noliCai  waa  among  the  lilty  whicn,  on  h4 

tbn  pnsclaui  menwria]  may  itjll  be  diwnlcrrrd.* 

ai  to  have  been  twMbinB  ehet  Armed  wlih  Ian, 

iHtiol  ■mblUi 

hia  vlclim'"  ihHc^  domcrfic 
jwlldgr,    pfl^p^  had   dcjdeiw 

lUilt  Cwld  ahrink  with  jeakmy  «  the  ceLi 
obthlncd  by  more  liberal  purwiiti  than  hu 

vijtdei,  acid  the  Kcret  bittory  of  the  outra; 


?"'''£b. 


iavc  bejrd  that  Ittc  papcn  rtl 


icolherwuedirectE-ilih^pnimneda  work 
Holkham  library.  wIkr  the  Colu!  nunu- 

ibetb  Haa.  No.  m1<  *r1. 1*9,  dneiibed  in 
ilocue  B  "*.  dun  of  ineh  Ihinp  as  were 
n  1  trunk  of  Sir  Bdwtrd  Cake*!  by  liie 
immand.  lin,"  but  mDTT  particularly  in 


DOMESTIC  lirSTOBY  OF  SfR  FDXVARD  COKE. 


TV  hendf,  wu  uthKwi  to  inlcniuny   her 
n  depcndcDtv,  mA  lo  di^ix*  (^  them  to  aa 

hiHon  ind  (riria.  wbkh^id  iiviiiplcd  Cau 


«i(b  the  ilunctcr  of 


'    He  W  b«B  WiTTicd  b  1 

e  home,  without  binn  or  licence,  at  ■ 
»1  vheo  the  jircbbUihop  ifb  vipUatiy  ^m- 
ng  InliDnnAl  And  iTTtrfuUT  nurrugei.    Cuki» 

Ok  pjrtid  foucenicd  would  hjve  Kt  him  «bm'r 

he  afptm  to  haiT  ronvdcTod  had  their  tndulftent 
cui^toin  fOr  the  ptM.     Bnt  WMlgift  wu  i 


mn  ruliy  senfihie  nl  the  orvrticjiring 
'  ttai«  great  lawyer ;  lor  nrhen  CuhE  be-' 

attomet'^encTAl,  we  cuiiuM  hut  coo- 
1  ingenibiu  lefiiinund,  the  ardihidia^ 

Cirock  Tntunent.  with  thii  imiuge, 

Dd  should  hcDcclbrward  Mudy  the  law 


LiDf;Lv  power,  or  its  intrepid  im 
rrvnal  diapoiiiiant  led  to  predoi 
a  often  usurped  iDthorlty  vhI  pc 


niliiled  by  appcdtinR 


poileniv.  thai  thcv  mi^l  one  day  know  Ihcy  lud 


terms  wiih  Secretary' wtnwood,  whom  Couusllf 

rtini  Iii4  only  dingbtcr  to  Ac  laennrite't  ddia 
iHtnher,  Kit  John  Villicn.  coufi  had  fonnerlf 
refiisi^  th»  maleh  ttoni  the  high  demandi  of 

n  ICO  thDinaud  ■  tear,  and  renting  to  giee  noly 
leq  thnuvand  DMTk*,  thnpoed  «m>e  iwe  wordtt 
that  he  iimld  not  hnjr  the  king^  tai-our  loo 
dear;'*  hut  now  in  Im  adivniiy.  hi*  amhitioB 
proyed  f<tronp?r  than  hi4  ayarice,  aiid  hy  Ihb  itrolt« 
ol  deep  rfJicy  ilte  wil^' lawyer  was  c'nnieTtiiig  a 

wllich  il  noon  betanie.  M  mrh  it  was  ceideDtljr 
IKTcerird  by  Buun i  he  wu  alanned  at  lliii  pro- 
jected alUance,  In  wUch  he  foresaw  that  be  should 

nnce  mere  ol  bis  riral  Cuia.    Bacon,  the  lUusDioui 

pliilraopher.whnK  eye  was  only  bkM  innbKtrinB 


u^eibeT  to  piei'em  titis  match ;  but  Lord  Bacon 
not  only  luled  iu  pemadina  the  tini;  to  mfusc 
what  hit  nutjesly  much  wiued,  but  nujllv  pro- 
duced  Ihe  i-ery  miscbief  he  aaught  In  a<en— a 
rapture  with  Buckinehim  himself,  and  a  copinus 
scoldii^  Idler  from  tike  kini;,  hat  a  vcrv  admirable 
one  ;t  and  where  the  lord-kceper  trembled  to  bnd 


It  sl>le  of  the  timev  the 


nbeT,  Art.  6q.    The  ^hted  and  copitvs 
[era,  Rpeecbci,  Charges,  Ac.  of  Francis 


DOMESTIC  HISTORY  OF  SlH  EDWARD  COKB. 


L«ly  Hilton,  hmght^  to  IhaIciih,  had  be«i 
often  fothliUn  both  the  coutU  of  Ihdt  RitjatlD 
whvR  L»lj  Comptoh,  the  tnolher  of  Bnckin^ur 
ttu  Ihe  ol^cct  or  hn  iidyihlp'i  peiKvertna  con 
tempt.  KnetetJined  hcrbennaaJinflueiicisby  th 
numeroiu  c4tAtn  whk^h  the  cojoycd  In  rl^c  of  he 


jtnd  country,     t  tn«  her  with  nulidoiu  iftivLty 
dliluniHhiniE  hn  houie  in  Holboin,  und  nt  Slote,* 

..<_, ...  iii^  tJoAt  tnd  nuh'eihJa,  mdt  In 

-  '-" *nd  the  Ijtilord 


ig  the  fmUcn  Wilciinin  • 


hn  birl^ihip  »peqrcd,  iccompanicij  by  an  Im- 

foinea  hjnij{faty  jiir>t  tnd  In  in  impetiJU  itik, 
Lhly  Hatton  derJaimrd  a^lnit  \ki  lynnoiul 
biuhand,  90  that  the  Intn-mlter  Midi,  "dii-cn 
taid  th*t  Biiftiagc  rouJd  not  have  Acted  better.'* 
Buibaec*!  famoui  chirutL-r  taa  thu  oT  Rkhird 
Ihe  Third.  II  n  ennordinaiT  tbil  Coi(.ible  to 
dclvnd  any  cjuie,  bore  hhnKlf  n  slmp^.    It  i^ 

Ion  npen  to  ulnudvenlon  In  the  neglect  of  b» 
duubmi  OTihaIbt*iti«iRlhMbewa»tuHl- 
■nRliclbre  no  Iriendly  bir,  al  thai  nuHnEnI  being 

I  Irw)  obtahied  a  ilgnal  triumph,  and  "iheorule 
or  Uw,"  H^th  111  his  graiiry.  Mood  bcfoic  Ihe 
counclt-uhle  henpecked:    In  Jane,  1616,  Mr  Sd- 

tidy,  lot  In  in  impuMubed  letter  I  lind,  thai  *■  hit 
cnni  bean  hath  been  fened  to  yield  to  more  than 
he  ever  fiKaat  \  but  upon  Ibh  agrtremenl  he  flitter* 
bil»eir  that  abe  will  prot'e  a  very  good  wHe." 

In  the  loUowIng  year,  1617,  thne  domeillc  af- 
fain  totally  cban«d.  The  political  marriase  of 
hia  danghler  with  VlHlen  being  tiovr  rcMived  on, 

Indeed,  promLied  to  he  but  a  nckly  bridegroom. 

tract  of  marriage  with  ]j]rd  Oafofd,  which  Ih^ 
oppOKd  agaipit  the  propotat,  or  rather  the  order. 

The  vlalence  lowblchlhelowerinf  tplrltiof  the 
cnnrllcllnv  pjinin  proceeded  la  a  piece  of  aecret 
hiuaiy,  of  ^hkh  accident  haj  prexrved  an  able 

waa  alleaft  equally  potent,  Wkth  Ui«  king"!  btour, 
entered  by  fareelbEbaTrieadoedbonaaof  bnlady, 
looh  poaaeailon  of  hit  daui^ter,  on  whom  he 

an  iTniroment  for  hia  political  purpoaei,  conhned 

mother  hervlf  Imprjwnerl,  and  brou^r  her  to 


•  SIDke-Pcsin,  In  Buckinghimihlre ;  Ihe  de- 
ightful  leat  olJ.  Fenn,  f^t^.  The  chimneyi  of  the 
luticnl  haiuE  Hill  remain,  and  mark  the  Incallly 
)f "  The  Long  Story  "  of  Oray. 


WDrid'm 
hlfown 

z^l" 

ptoted  90  ilirpk  an  aditwaie  m 
thepreaerweorhlawile,na.,to 

^ZTa  lUdy%l!15!r«li«  td3? 
docTibei.  *llh  "  hb  high-hindcd 

ll'p/'ef 

a  "Draclei"  and  Lord  Bjcon.  in  hit 
.1  loiter  »  the  king  bir  hi.  ing  oppoKd 

1'he  memorial  allude  to  ipnt-an  to  h.ivc  been 


with  patience  prepare  mytelf  to  Ibeirealremille^ 
and  ftudy  to  defend  the  bieacbe*  by  which  to 
theiiadtaaiatntheytuppoKiacoineia  upon  me, 
and  henceforth  quit  Ihc  ways  of  paciticaiiwi  and 

dearoured,  which.  In  tny  rpinlon,  lie  moM  open 
to  titmbie,  Kandalf  and  danger  \  wherefore  I  will 
briefly  vet  down  (heir  objections,  and  >uch  aniwcn 
10  Ibem  u  I  conceive  proper, 
"The  tint  I1,  you  conreyed  away  your  d.ioghler 

that  ibe  HiDDld  be  mirricd  IVom  me  In  apite  of  my 

S'rL  with  dlKounea  tending  to  bcitow  her  iKAinat 
:r  liking,  which  he  laidibe  waa  Id  aubmii  id 

wughi  to  me  for  helpi  v^hcreupon,  at  lieretofore 
I  had  accuatomed,  I  bcalowed  her  apart  at  my 


"Upon  thifl  lubHTCt  a  lav)-er,  by  wiy  of  in- 
i-eiy  heaier'i  judgment  by  the  righli  of  ^  1  ihrr^ 


D031EST1C  BISTORT  OF  SIR  EDWARD  COKE. 


betbongtat  rnvxlf  dF 
Oiford.iiwiticlikci 


la  I  put  b 


aid  Ibcy  vcrc  ttacii  too  }'oiiDg,  uJ  then  w 

""niinlly.  He  al'viyi  left  ha  diughler  n 
dHponiie  ind  mj  brii^ng  up:  kntning  ll 
purpoocJ  ber  ray  Ibminc  uiA  wbotc  c«ute»  ai 

land  UnutlfatalaMj  ffktt,  tuvrr  mtAUOt 
i",  nixUclur  *fr.  mul  ttrmg  silAiif  >r  lur. 
"Tbe  lbir3.    That  you  CDunlnkilcil  ■  t 


nhfltd.    kE3il  Ih-  ti 

*  no  cnKfi|(tiiKnt  prCKntly  nor  iHttirvLy  j  h 
be  law  ibvtn  whit  forpfr>'  iil  and  ID  conn 
I  privatt  nun**  handi  luy  ■  rnjigitfrvtc'i,  i 

"ScaHuDVt  the  end  ^n^iirii:*.  at  The  ks> 


cantuvcy  cndu 


itf  poiwn  oC  tbat  plici 
OB  1  miior  ind  ail  he 


idiniKciJ 
VUlcn-i  bngn^c. 

"Tbefuurtb.  Tliat  }'on  ploned  tLMurpriR  jtiut 
dui^tcr  Id  tikv  brr  iwjy  by  roTCe,  la  the  hrrach 
of  tbe  king**  pcicc  ind  urti 


lipht 

uoldERd,  the 


It  to  ih( 


king  being  lenb  of  th 

more  dan^^rooi  attcoipti.    Tbishctd  ii  lat^  fgr : 


WDketoTumtfr  u  pnn-ide  tne  tome  till  f«LloK't 
tor  the  taking  ■  povo^n  for  inc,in  Llncolmhire, 

•c  they  upon  Ibc 
lay  day  appoinled 


m,  which  u  not  witbin 


■nded  tht* — the  mother  f  aiul  w> 


ulhority  mwbt  tbc  ^  t^'  ber  dAUgbter,  (h 


r;  mkuS  Jifmng  rii^li,  u  Ihiyjtilijj 


Ukc  thit  in  lbs  «nm  Kn*:,uid  luknl  of  aU  the 
my.  ohil  had  tbe  CHCuling  of  thli  InKnHoa  been 


|teTDU>bntadiic»ti 

contidcnbJc  for  ihe  m 

xs-irsi".s 

--^ISi'S?^. 

o  hiring  ceitilifd  the  king 

OF  CORE'S  STYLE,  ASD  HIS  COXDCCT. 


which  »  hcini:,  I  hope  hn  mijcsly  wilJ  gracictiuly 
CKCUK  the  neccnilyi  «thI  doi  lmpo«e  i  fiult, 
whermf  I  am  nol  gniliy  J  »od  for  Ihe  Koding  il,  I 
pmtnt  lo  Cod  I  Siul  it  not ;  ud  rot  tElling  tbi; 

Krtici,  and  vhcrc  he  i%,  1  moat  bumbLy  hwech 
lucrcd  fnajcttj^,  In  hi!  great  wisdom  and  honour, 
(a  conridcr  how  uswoithr  i  put  it  n-cre  in  me  to 
brine  any  man  knto  troubJe,  from  «hicb  I  mm  lo 
lar  ^Hn  redeeming  bim  u  I  can  do  way  relieve 
nfKLf,  and  ihereibre  humbly  cart  bii  maiesCv  in 
hb  princely  comideration  ot  my  dirtreasc 


Among  other  pwen  il  ippein  thai  Con  i 
bli  Udy  of  hating  "cmhciiled  all  hii  g 
lilrer  plate  ami  reflielt  (be  badng  Little 
home  of  mine  but  thai  hit  marriage  w 
bnwgbt  bim), and  instead  thereof  IbMcd  Id 
of  theHtneione.raihlaD.aa'— '  -'-'-■- 
to  have  cbcateil  him  of  the  o 


bimoftAe 

Ihe  Kbedt 

h  plate  for  ir 


cany  away  all  the  gocNbi  which  being  refuwd  him 
by  the  rutle-Xeeper,  he  Ihceatatu  bring  your  lord- 
i1iip*«  wjimnt  for  the  Dcrformancc  thereof.  But 
he  ihonld  hare  the 


irily  of  the  goods  during  I 

cpriring  mc  of  sricb  use,  bEing  goods  trrought 
ly  marriage, or  bovghlwilb  Ihe  money  iB^ied 
I  my  allowances.  Stop,  then,  his  high  tyrannl- 
Qunes;  for  I  have  ludered  beyond  the  measure 

tis  kingdom,  without  respect  to  my  father,  my 

I,  my  fbniines,wilh  v/hich  I  tmt  st  higMj 


t^naiavaiieaioerevunn  ai  mis  lice,  momnea, 
and  proud  woman,  or  the  more  tender  fechn^  of 
the  daugbler,  in  this  forced  martiage  to  satisfy  Ihe 

Kitical  am1»tion  of  the  father  f  When  Lord 
on  wnle  10  Ibe  king  mpecling  the  ttniue 
behaiiour  of  Coke,  Ibe  king  vindicated  it,  f«  the 
purpose  of  obtaining  bis  dangler,  blaming  Lord 
Bacon  for  some  expressions  ne  had  useo;  and 
Bacon,  with  itae  aeniliiy  of  the  conitiet,  when  be 
fonnd  the  wind  in  bis  leeth,  tacked  round,  and 
pnimised  Buckii^im  to  promote  the  match  ho 


imbeth  his.  93A.  an,  69,  and  >jy 


fbor  s|nkenof :  he  dined  Ibat  day  at  IheTvmplej 

my  informant.  Ttie  moral  close  remains  to  be 
told.     Lady  villien  looked  on  her  huibind  as  the 

him  mad  I   while  she  disgmced  herself  by  such 

white  sheet,  and  1  believe  at  length  obtained  a 
divorce.  Thus  a  marriage  pra>ee1e^  by  amhition, 
and  prosecuted  by  violei-t  means,  closeil  with  thai 


"  tdgh-banded  tyrannical  counts,"  1 
nature.  »  welt  as  Ihe  Uw  sf  which 
oracle,"  will  he  alike  violated  under 
Wife  and  dangbict  were  plaintiffs  or  deienuanu  on 
whom  Ibis  lordehief-juiltce  closed  bis  cju:  be  had 
blocked  up  the  avenues  to  his  heart  with  "  Law  1 
Uwl  Uwl"bis"oldsongl" 

In  June,  i«J4,  1  find  in  the  Karl  of  Striflofd-s 
letters,  that  on  a  strong  report  of  bis  death,  Lady 
Colie,  accompanied  ^  her  hmlber  Lord  Wim- 
bledon, posted  down  to  Stoke-Pogeis,  to  lake  pov 

Ihey  mrl  wiih  one  of  his  ph>ilcians  cominR  from 
him,  who  informed  them  of  sir  Edward's  amend- 
ment, which  made  Ihemsrctum  at  Ibeir  leisure. 
On  the  foltowLng  September,  the  itnerahle  sage 

the  snows  of  age. 


OP  COItl's  STKLB,  AND 

THIS  great  lawyer  perhaps  set  Ihe  example  of 
thai  slylc  of  railing  and  invective  at  our  bar.  which 
the  egotism  and  craven  insolenee  of  sonic  of  our 
lawyers  include  in  their  practice  at  the  bar.  II 
may  be  useful  to  bring  10  recolleclinn  Cimi'a 
ritoperative  style  in  Ihe  following  dialogue,  so 
bcautilnl  in  Its  contmt,  with  that  of  Ihe  creal 
victim  bcfine  him  I  The  altomn^enenl  had  nol 
sufficient  evidence  lo  brhig  tbe  obscure  conspiracy 
home  to  Ravteigh,  with  which,  I  believe,  however, 
be  had  cautiousW  tampered.  Bnt  Co»  well  knew 
tfaal  James  tbe  Fnnt  had  reason  to  dislike  the  hero 
of  his  age,  who  was  early  engaged  against  Ihe 
■oillish  mleresli.  and  betrayed  by  Ihe  ambidei- 
irous  policy  of  Cecil.  Coal  wuck  at  Mawleigh  as 
a  sacniice  to  his  oim  political  ambition,  as  we 
have  seen  he  afterwards  immolated  his  daughter ; 
hut  hii  penonal  hatred  was  now  sharpened  by  the 

facultica  and  acquisitions  the  lawyer  so  beartily 
cDnlemned  I     coai  had  obten-ed,  "  I  know  with 


174                           SECRET  EISTOBT  OF  AUTHORS  WJiO                                    \ 

anecdntc  -.  The  room  m  whicb  he  wu  lodgetl  in 

ud  imcWUy.            "^ 

the  Tower  had  formerly  been  a  kitchen;  on   hi* 

enlniice  Ihe  lord  chief  juuice  read  upon  the  dooi. 

fsu  h^mpakcs  one  lliing  biir  t  doKD  llme^' 

lion  in  the  loill  which" held  him,      Shenqnne   had 

huel^  W  M  Ibe  re>lm  of  Englud  fn^  thy  prid^ 

e«t  belnn'  «>q  md  me.  Mr.  Anonc}'. 
Co«.    Well,  I  vill  DO  Duke  it  ipjieir  to  the 

waarenl  by  Ibe  king  lo  the  primnerio  inlnmihim 
that  he  wvuld   be°allowe.r  "  Bight  o[   the    hcX 

woild,  Ibu  there  i«et  Kvcd  1  viteT  rtper  upon  the 

(iceofthcnnh  than  thou.    Theu  an  •  Dwinler  i 

onrgreal  lawyer  thanked  Ibe  king,  "hut  he  knew 

tbou  hM  in   Bi^hib  IKe.  hu<  1  Xuniib   bein. 
Thouiipcrt  (orlltaiilUce,tbaulr<(toT!    Havel 

hlnwirto  be  accounted  to  hare  a.  much  lUII  is 

the  Uw  a>  anv   man  in   England,  and  IhcKJilfB 

needed  no  mcb  help,  nor  (eared  to  be  judged   bf 

"wwleiXieplled,  ohu  bii  d»till»  cmdiK. 
pn.iTd— "  1  tm  in  no  cm  tn  he  inaj" 
Cd(i  h>d  «l  the  xme  >I.  It  «^  Ihe  anhipp)' 

the  law." 

fx-ODrite  ofBlinbeth.ihe  Eirl  of  e»ei.    It  wu 

SECBBT  HISTORY  OF  AUTHOkS  WHO  HAVS 

bein,  ••  nach  u  tn  hit  wonh  j  Mid  Lord  tiam 

Ai;li:>  GILUl'l  dc^nrd  to  live  no  longer  than 

hewaiabletoexenae  the  (aculiy  of  writing!  he 

pnbJicly  in  Ibe  E.cbequet.-     A  ■pecimta  mill 

might  have  dectntly  added.— and  find  readeti! 

Eooipleu  OBI  model  of  hBforeixicontot^.    Coke 

Thn  wouM  be  i  fatal  wUi  k.t  that  writir  who 

Mcliinied.-Nr.  BKon.  if  you  hire  iny  tonih 

■hi  uM  vrcail  the  lolixlkin  of  wtarines,  without 

•Rim^ncplwlt  iIont;(DTit  nUldottDmoR 
hot  Ihin  ill  the  leeHl  In  vour  head  willdojon 

himicir  paitakinii  of  the  epidemia.    Tbc  mere  ki 

and  haliiTol  w?ti.y.  withi>ul  piobahly  even  a  re- 

gptJ,"    luon  replied,  "the  le-  j-ou  ipok  o( 

>.  or  mm  pIulneH,  the  more  I  '■Ul  Ihmk  of  il." 

Xr*'lirtnm,''''and'iSlipr«m.e  ba«^iSIS 

Coke  replied. "  :  think  Kon  lo  lUad  unon  leniu 
.rf  Kre"n»  Wm«d.  )0u.  who  ae  k-  tb»  U.lle, 

Wlhin  Ibe  tei«."'\:uke  wo  exhibited  on  Ihe 

m.ilned  to  HaRle  their  hiini  while  otiicn  aaain 

h;'TiS^^r?^e«*!?iS-m;w*«b?*^ 

M'teoCniKngwHlonglhepniikfTOlthebwreni 
>tsjire<lveabiJu<£eMtvrij  hut  Ibe  bench  ol 
jD.lKei  .n  Itac  MfiB  ofwillam  nA  Anne  taught  . 

wub  pecuUar  n«nre.'"  1  divo.^^  Ihu'X^ 
IbcK  iracribed  Aii  diilich  on  hit  manuicripl  col- 

pineJ  lo  be  KUihy  tUt  the»-  were  (untittcd. 

When  Cuii  once  wh  hinnlf  in  di^we,  hi. 

hicb  nirll  nink  without  i  pjiticle  of  miRtunimilv 

which,  not  lo  eompov  belter  venci   than  cm' 

todiKni^ihe  (.111  hitbigwonK™!  K-tinn- 

original,  may  be  ttaoJaled. 

tiicdl  cour>e^■■  vhcB  be  cSuld  no  lonm  e.nlt  Ibit 
"he  ws  upon  h><  wingi  again."  nink  wilb  him  » 
be  ptelent^  himrell  on  &  knee,  to  Ihe  council- 

More  voluniea.  with  our  tolumn  ttiU  ihill  Mend , 
And  to  out  writing  there  ihall  he  no  end  ! 

b.mieir  "  Lorf  chief  jullKe  of  ensUnd,"  when  il 

much  indulged  in  Ibe  icOuciion  o(  Ihe  pen.  that 

wa<  Jeelared  thai  thn  tiik  wai  hi)  own  intention. 

thei' appear  to  haie  (iiund  no  lubnituie  (ot  the 
How  ol' their  ink.  and  the  delight  or  Kamping 

blank  paper  with  Iheif  hintl.  •ketches  ideas  ll« 

thehlUKhlXlawnrtolherool..    when  the  nr^- 

irJiiu  wai  carried  lo  bim  hr  Sir  Ucurne  CoppiD, 
■ee  I^al  lony-iplTil  ihrunk  Into  a  rery  narrow 

read  and  I  write  nighl  and  day ;  il  i.  my  only 

convlatioli.     My  eyeTate  heaty  with  watching 
w/iere'l  di'^r"'<r  ^'ibe"!!!)^  D^  my  bed.  1  bate 

r-om.  (or  Cou  feceiveJ  it  Willi  deieviion  and 
lean."  The  writer  from  whole  letlerllute  copied 

in  Ibe  dark.  I  write,  alihough  1  am  unabk  to  read 

punningdinichi  IheaamealouTkirdebiefjuiiice 

the  next  mofningwhal  1  haic  writien."    hnnreh 

wu  in  bii  day  eery  proi  ocjtii-e  of  Ihe  pun  hoth  in 

wainoi  alwaji  in  hit  perfect  lenKi. 

Ulin  and  Engliih  j  Ocero  imleed  bad  preoccupied 

Ihe  mmaUe  ItiBe. 

wrilingi  or  many  •uthon.  have  ibowii  that  too 

««'JI«™,  ^,L,i  „U",u'"c«V'" 

erudition  and  ei-rn-dai  apFli.'ali<m  1.  Ihe  catamilv 

Six  vcanafteiKJiili  Con  wji  leni  lo  the  Tower 

or  that  voliiminoui  author,  ahn,  without  g«Kl 

andiben  the;  punned againn him  in  BnKli*.   An 

HAVE  RUINED  THEIR  BOOKSELLERS. 


■lie  judgmenl  which  we  call  good  Uflc,  ii  ilwayi 

at  the  fenlUt>-  ud  the  liie  of  our  own  wrilen  of 
the  tevcntninth  ccniurv,  wbea  ibe  Iheolngicil  wu 
nf  wonb  ngLd,  nviltna  »  natty  pana  and  brum. 
They  pcnduced  hilia  incr  rolm,  like  ilinanickii 

to  Kiinty  voluDics,  mniC  of  Ibem  of  the  nwM 
fonnJdaMe  liu.    Tbe  Inith  1>,  hawtvcr,  Ibat  it 

or  bluntlVi  like  wtlLeii  Diowen,  without  Mopping 
to  wel  iheit  Kflbo.  Tbcy  wen  iiuplred  by 
the  KTlbhting  demon  of  that  lUihbin,  wboi  in  ha 

that  were  "  the  huteos  formed  of  paper*  lud 

wba  wb  unhappy  that  bb  lady  had  prnduced 

contrived  to  pair  hii  labmn  with  bur  own,  but 
that  now  he  wu  •  book  behindhand. 

I  Ki  CD  (our  cclehnlcd  ScrlHrrl  to  ^  Ibeir 
KcRI  bbtorj- 1  our  Pr>^nne,  Cv^ur  Barwiuii  (be 
AhM  de  Harollea,  and  Ihc  Jesuit  Theapbiliu  Ray- 
naud, who  frill  all  ihow  thai  a  book  miglil  be 


'  a  long  i^Hihed  cap,  wbkh  ci 

DO  mudi  li|cht  j"  anil  then,  hun^rer  nor  tbint 
ic  experience,  aavc  thai  of  bit  voluminous  pa 

a  nearly  two  hundred  booka.    Our  unlucky 
tior.  wbne  Kfe  wai  Intoh-cil  in  anlbornhip,  and 
h  happineia,  no  doubt,  in  the  habitual  — -■— 
incc  of  hb  Dm,  arcnit  to  hare  conaidc 
leitig  debarred  from  pen,  ink,  and  hook?!. 


volumci.    "  Comlonable  Cordlah  against  ditcORl- 

Latln  Verses  (entenm.  anil  T»l>  uf  Scnpnire, 
in  Ihc  Tower  0(  London,  during  bis  imprisanment 
PKiNxa  literally  iitiliisd  Pope"!  Jncripiion'; 
"  Is  there,  who,  locked  from  ink  and  paper,  scrawb 
With  desperate  charcoal   round  his  darkened 


■rinnc  in   the  pilloiy 

hat  while  be  stood  there,  Ihcy  "  burnt 


College,  ubere  rr 


onF  iot  1  and  their  pen  will  Hill  luSLUriate  in  Ibe 
forbidden  page,  which  even  bookselleis  refute  to 

whoK  "  Adveoarla,"  in  two  volumes  folio,  arc  in 

nine  yean  of  age  be  recited  by  heart  all   the 

Tbe  learned  admired  the  puerile  prodby,  wblle 
Ibe  prodigy  wu  writing  buoka  hehire  he  bad  a 


aitd  jiuNc1ou4y  fban  hb  Mil 

paHionfor  Toluminoui  writiiifi  un'hv  <jui,  nui^ii 

showed  Itself  by  the  niual  pniitniialii:  □(  tbH  dan- 

~"^ -—-._-»,— ,^  f4cllity  nf  campthftion, 

Du  In  this  uidiappy  f.ieuUy, 

ibongh  it 


Into  nvany  errors  In  thai  delicile 
veiling  on  other  anth 
hand,  his  hrai  copy  reqi 
boasts  that  he  rarely  i 
thing  wu  sent  10  tlw 
taugh)  at  -   - 

thiuh'"dlii^n^ 


ipln-ed  only  li 
epitbalamium  Dpun  St 
-' "■  — I'cnly-e^EDt  hex 


lite  lay  hi 
that  I  think  the  c 


Dk7ar  £c  Kk, 


vapidity  an.1  ndui 
(  thii  le..Tii<'d  ma 


SECRET  HFSTORY  OF  AUTHORS  WHO 


be  inacrd  hb  own  nunc,  la  whicb  i»  IppChilcd  a 
by  rtieir  t itka  iti<r  cxtnctl,  roawm  m  rcry  Advan- 


formerly  >o  CAJalcd  ind  complimenl 
Itanwd  AutbGT,  and  hmd  hcaH  h  m 
cekbnted  Binhiut.  tbit  they  hid  cx' 


:    "Adrcnarii"    ii  i   coiCECIion  of  Clitiia] 
lad  qiuHatioiu  fmm  uicicDt  authon,  wilh 


The  plan  is  vH, » the  npidity  vrltb  which  it  wa> 
punued :  Biylc  tiiuly  chuvcleriKi  it  by  a  uogle 
ttroke — "  Iti  immcmity  tint  ercn  Ibc  inugLiu- 
tipn."    Aul  thelnilh  n,  thU  mighty  labour  lumed 


would  apolognc  f?r  ihe*:  b 


igant  ai  IhoK  ol  II 


"K''hi -.»..- ua      .«»».„.„„    ™ 
book-min,  one  Didymiu,  of  uboin  Qumliliin 

treated  II  aa  utleily  unworthy  of  ctcdjt ;  on  which 
the  teller  cahed  for  one  of  DidymiB'4  own  books, 

Clemenl  In  hq  "  BibliotMquc  cunemc  de  Lli^n 

where  we  Aacvsts  dK  winding  up  □(  Ibc  hiMoiy 

edition  o(  the  Adieniha  ;  but  on  a  nun  cairful 
impcction  he  delected  Ihul  the  cW  tiUe-paget  hAd 

bookjeUen  not  being  abte  to  adl  the  book  prae- 
tl«ed   thit  deception.    It   availed  little;  they  re- 

ToluDia  of  Ihc  Advenana,  and  the  author  with 

both  parties  compjlined  together,  and  Ubcir  hein 
could  afquirenothlnclrom  the  works  of  an  author 

ungle  man  could  be  capable  of  execuliug  10  great 


«  of  that  race  of 


lluminoui  author ;  and  yet  il  cantiot  be  denied 


deed,  but  the  fnnknen  and  inlrepidily  of  his  ctaa- 
ractrr  enable  hiin»  wbik  be  it  punting  himselfi  to 

hit  pen,  for  be  *vf%  io  hi)  Ufe,  "'Tbe  dulncH  of 


[  obten'cd  hb  delinquenciei  cf>unled  np 
nologicid  order  in  SiceroD'a  *'  Hommes 
tremcly  intuiing  lo  detect  the 


W4q  HI  exDvordirufy  mom^iu,  aiiuH 
re  angry  with  me»"  »aid  L'Blang,". 


U  Run»  Althouifh  be  bad  no 
cun-ilyl     An  autbor't  per- 


HATH  RUIfTED  THEIB  BOOKSELLERS. 


meeting  L'Etang,  irprDacbnl  him  with  dt 
him  out  of  ■  pHikm,  which  he  had  no  den 
havehntowedon  him.  The  lut  Kptyoflbe  critic 

jtandsinncedof  agenenJ  paidDn,  one  oujcht  tuiely 


hi>  loTC  at  writing  plniuCed  iUBnr  odd 
i-olumca  vrcie  liclily  bound,uul  fredf  < 

lervir  de  Pr^Cuc  fur  Jet  ?Detci  tnduiti  pu  MicheJ 
de  Manillea,"  he  hv  giren  in  impoing  lial  of 
"  iUmtriouspenona  Andconlempomy  Hulhon  who 
were  hit  fnrnd*/'  and  hat  prcaerved  many  lingular 
facu  concerning  tkiem.  Hewis,indeed,far  id  Long 
a  lime  coniinced  tbil  he  had  ttruck  olT  the  mie 

to  hack  bit  laa 

ID  given  of  thjit 

etc  9i  peu  appTour^es  jibqu'ici."  Among  tlicie 
uumeroua  IratuJaliani  he  wai  the  Am  who  rcn- 
tiirnl  on  ihe  Dtipnouphint  ef  Adtcnsm,  vhich 

"  Leaquioze  UiTsde  Deipnuopliialad'Athen^e, 
Ouvrage  d£Uc{eux,agrcaNcment  divenitie  et  rem- 

Matieia  et  de  Sujeta."    He  hu  pccliiied  i. 

pTcliminary  dissenatiois :  yet  not  Htislied  witt 

■■"-—-"  nuarto  of  fr '■'-•-  -'-^ 


■dctcd  the  claarii 
.      .      .  ■riumuRylc.wli 

thing  more  Jeft  Co  do,  he 


ilegei 


„ . — .  — ,...  the  midsl  or  prinlingt 

»  >jddcnly  itopped  hy  luihority,  lor  having 
LedinfannolslherereTiaoftherre-adamile 
lyyr^fe.  He  had  already  rcvcUed  on  the  New 
imcntftohiB  venionoF  whichhebad  prefixed 
Hihie  an  inlroduclioa,  that  il  wa  aft< 


ofihe  AhbedeM 


aithen 


woke  out  of  the  heiry  dream  of  Ihe  felicity 

id  t  hare  Ramlawd  many  boolu;  conldeTing 

loien  for  my  pciiatc  life,  than  ai  thingi  very 
xcaury,  although  they  are  nol  entirely  luelat. 
ime  have  valued  1tiem»  and  ofhcn  hai'c  cared 
:tle  about  themi  but  tiowever  il  may  be»l  fee 

II  HI  uZl  ai  HMCk  ftal  ai  luiJ,  both  for  their  own 
lalieT.and  Iho  form  which  1  have  ^ventothem." 
he  notion  he  enlertained  of  bb  tranilationf  waa 
leir  cloaene*  i  he  waa  not  awaie  of  hia  own  fpirit- 
ai  style  j  and  he  imagined  that  poetry  only  con- 
ned in  Ihe  IhooghD,  not  in  Ihe  gnce  and  haTmonr 
vcTK.  He  intiued.thal  bygivinglbe  public  hii 


han  they  ouf^t  to  be  reapecting  traiutathim  of 
Luthon  who.  Bring  »  nuny  a^  Bail,  aie  rjrely 
cad  from  the  dlllicuityof  underflanding  Ihem :  and 
vhy  ihould  tbcy  imagine  tliat  a  tnnstalion  if  inju- 


by  my  miduity,  Ihey  have  n^aid  me  hy  the  Hne 
thinn  ihey  have  taught  me,  and  by  the  opinion 
whien  I  hare  eoncciw  thai  pottenty,  more  jmt 

than  Ihe  preaent  timet,  will  award  a  mcne  bvonr- 

minatefhb  long  laltodn,  by  drawing  hif  hill  of 

not  pay  i  but  in  thae  caaei,  at  ^k  bill  in  eenainly 
lofl  pefixe  it  leacbc*  acceptance,  why  ibouLd  we 
deprivethedrawerfof  pleanng  tbemielvawilb  Itie 

Lei  ui  not,  however,  imagine  (hat  the  Abbe  de 
Harotlet  waa  nothing  bul  the  man  he  appeura  -n 
the  character  of  a  voluminouf  tra lulatnr ;  ihoui;h 

evidenllyaningeniouf  and  nohLc-minded  man, 

pong  the  primitive  coUeclon  in 

--■  —=----,  printt.    One  of  hia 

ivref  d'Eftampet  eldc 

iri>,i66«^inai'o.    tn 

author  dedara,  that  he  had  cul- 


hundRd  large  voluina,  and  one  hi 

formed  by  lo  mueb  care  and  illll,  he  | 
the  king;  whether  grati^loualy  giver 
wiie,il  waa  an  vquiution  which  a  moi 
have  Ihankfultv  accepted.    Such  v«s  I 


r  in  wriling  folioi,  while  the  hookfvl 


ilicationi ;  and  the  whole  plan 


AOTHORB  WBQ  HAYS  RAISED,  JKEIS.  BOOKSELLERS. 


pnclonl  an,  luxn  iwiv  bmfi  Ihc  pew  A>p  4  4Ad 
thinl,»flip  c»B  Kijuire  no  re^^ifita.™  »*i»g  f 
bnokouv.gmwiBS  Ksyiii,Kc)6ii^gtlwitcii 

ay:n^wilAnijtbiWBg0wk:uflu«<9fiiiUD»wtiftb 
h«  vtrc  u  wofii]  ■  tDuu[>urji  wmecif  hii  CDntn 


lit  TbcopfaiLiu  Riymud. 
eulDglfcil  b>'  Bavk  »nH 
kt  All  twenty  rolk 


prrtvIM  Dcpt  X  tingk  oofy  on  be  Tound  in  Ea^nd ; 

Kirnwil't  WDtki  m  Ihcologlcil  1  but  ■  nitcin  el 
ETacc  nuinUined  bf  one  v-orfc,  and  pulled  doin. 
h}-  uotheTt  ha  ccwd  to  intcrot  nunkiod  -.  tbe 
UlentuRaribedirineiiGfalapctohibkiiitore. 
Keadina  and  wntinfi  Ihrough  a  Life  of  ciehtv  vckts 
ind  tli>  iiiB  oil]'  *  qnimc  of  in  boui  id  nil  dinner. 
viib  *  vi^tmoiu  memiK}',  anti  a  vrhlmiiciil  ra '  '" 
•nme  iin£utM'  tulijeels,  he  could  km  bll  to 
miilale  1  mias  of  knautlediiE  which  iB»y  »-..  -- 


^mphryJa  their  e 
idnnn  wbitevrr  • 
kwiindbowci 
nintotbcfenK'i 


rH  tbciTpen. 


t  n^nft  CAli-iniwn,  detctibcd 


iDiti  that  he  had  diirei 


an  eiprowuD which  Saint, 
odioiuby  conpUng  bim  • 


J  will  not  quit  Raynaud  v^tboul  pointing  01 

titlH  1  dupter,  Cliriiivi  t^nu,  H'a,  twnrm :  i 
anothei  on  the  fevcn-bnnchcd  candlolick  in  il 

aplaiD  the  e'ucbaria  i  and  adds  an  ilphabnic 
lot  of  nama  and  cpilbels  which  hat-c  been  giT< 
Id  thti  my9ten\ 
The  Kvcnth  volun 


extiw)Tdinar>'  thii^p 
Kanilalr.ani 


A  prmarkable  ei&dence  of  Ihb  is  the 


or  to  which  were  urehied  namt  tit  rittrrn.  Thii 
lelonw  li  dncribed  hv  the  whimdcil  title  of  ,.</•»■ 
ftanptm  i  npLiined  to  ti«  b«  the  name  ((Even  by  the 
Jeua  to  tbe  tcapef7n1,bhieh,hhed  loaded  vilh  all 
their  nulvd(cIhin)OBlt>huid.iiiiidriTcnnira]'inn> 
thedevTt.  Thaceontainall  RayriaDdHniimvfoas 
Jitittittii  RiT  wbciicier  be  waj  lefnted,  be  waa 
■Iwait  rcfntiiqc}  be  did  doc  ipan:  hia  beit  frinkdl- 
TtteiilleoFa  warkagaiM  AmauM  will  ihow  how 
be  treated  hu  adTowiiei.    "  Anuuldnt  lednivui 


itielr  theme  the 

kc  ia  a  diclkinary 
ilh  obKTiatiom 
devotion  of  the 

which  the  order  of  tbe  Carmcs 

Another  of  theie  "  Mariolia"  h 


and  barren  at  the  letter  appears,  he  haa  atnick  out 

ran-  ftilty  Imltea  out  cuiltwty. 

In  the  «i^ib  tiilnme  ii  a  table  of  uinia,  daned 
by  their  ftatinikt  coDditoiit  employment,  aikd 
trada:  a  lid  of  litki  and  pren^iaiiii:*,  which  the 


id  pTefOtlalilv^, 


liie  thirteenth  v 


noftra."    He  dexlerod^v  applies  the  name  o 

nauld,  by  nmiunnt;  bm  with  one  of  the  ume   letter  O  t  it  It  en..^..  ^m—  =..^.«. r-'™ 

name  intbetweUiheentiuy.aichalarof  Ahclard'a,!  of  bieiity.  The  maiiim  an  brief,  bui  tlie  com. 
and  a  lurliiilL-nt  eulbuii.bt|Viy1heRomidiwntcn,l  mcnLiry  ioH-  One  of  the  Jhihir«i/ tubjccts  tnr.ited 
vbo  W.11  Iwmt  alire  (ur  ha%ini;  written  iEainit|  on  iitbat  of^Mvi.-  be  leiiewa  a  great  nnmhcrnf 
the  liitnr>-  and  the  power  of  tbe  priettbood,  and  tioie>«  and,  u  iiHial,  dnei  not  Inrpsct  the  Holv  Vir- 
Air  ha>in;(  raved  a  rebellion  aeiinil  the  pope.  iRinVM  AccordinD  to  Rai-nand.  the  nme  lif  the 
When  the  kanicd  De  Laimii^ud  aaccenful^ '  Virran  Mary  wai  kmg  and  a-|niiine.  the  miik  of 
attacked  tbe  leqcndi  (if  uinlt,  and  was  called  the '  ((nnhieis  and  dioniti'  1  and  ai  Jeun  pcrfccth  le- 
Diimiitr  Jt  Allan,  the  "  Dnnicher  of  Rwnts"  wmhled  bit  mnther.'lie  indn  that  be  mmt  hai-e 
et-ery  pirish  pn->t  trembled   Inr   hn  faynuritc,  j  had  Mich  a  noae- 

"Hercnlet  Cnmmoduniu  Joanna  Laumiiiu  re.   nufa  Pirfdflf  ririn/umi.  ^CTfif f iHni. f ( /h/c riHraha, 

Ciimmndu^.  who,  though  Ihe  imM  cow^irdly  of  deiotiim,  which  lupcrMition.  igniifance,  and  re- 
men,    conceited    himwil    formidable    when   he  j  miianed  hate  rnade  a  part  of  leligion. 


LOCAL  DESCRIPTIONS.                                          tri  | 

A  treatlae  diiected  .g>inu  the  new  cunom  of 

would  accept   the   apolfflo-  which    Min-ielir  C- 
thcTinM  has  (ramed  toi  hinwlf,  which  1  lind  pre- 

tiiiing  cbain  in  churchii,  and  being  Kateil  duTing 

must  be  allowed  m^  freedom  in  my  s^lulie^  Inr  I 

aK>ii»t  n«..te.     Another  on  nnuch.    Another 

entitled  Hiw-rrtm  J.  R^l».  »^«(.re,  i>  an 

attack  on  Ih.«  <rf  bB  own  company ;  the  n»nk 

amonH  my  hoooui^  lhe«  epairiiki  of  mttic,  hut 

iiimed  merchant :  Ibe  louita  were  then  Kcued 

ridKC.  »  with  St.  }obn  the  Kvaiucllit;  mv  rat, 
aa  with  ft|pe  SI.  Uresory  j  mv  liltfe  doc.  »'  w  Itli 

who  ibouphl  he  wa.  pomaded  In  Ihh  honM 

work.  conhDcd  Ravnaml  in  pnion  for  live  monlha. 

gnat  black  mastiir,  i>  with  Cnmeiiiu''A>iri'|.p^^ 

and  my  time  hare,  as  wilb  Junius  Lip.iui."    1 

IhvrimX  covU  never  git  a  printer,  ami  hj>  ralWr 

ncccsuiy  indciin.    One  of  hi>  woiki  taaelnK  been 

compelled  to  stndv  economy  in  bia  Iwo  hnndroi 

quiitoi  of  ftiut  or  eiehl  paceti  hh  iLipcruaxif 
iiifcrior  qiialit,  ,  ai^  Vh™S7 Ul/^  «.-.  I." 

concerning  good  and  bad  books,  addtcwd  lo  Ibe 

Rfjind  iminiutor.  He  dirldea  hii  uealix  inta  •  had 

he  used  lo  prumiw  the  end  at  aoetber  lime,  whi.  h 

did  not  al»a>i  happen.    Bui  liliKreate^  anikli 

hooka  not  bad.bnt'nocenli  booki  neither  bad  noe 

was  lo  pnhlhh  anil  sprcnl  hiawoika:  in  Je^.iir 

nnccnt."  Hb  Iminenie  reiiUng  apiiean  b«e  to  ad- 

.aniage.  and  hla  Kll»«lan  &tika  prominent , 

l«  he  aiKttiL  Itaal  when  writinK  aaimt  herdlci, 

Ibe  fuaiH  wbeie  hoolis  an  nkl,  and  while  he 

all  mordaciry  ji  innoiioui  and  an  ■Jphabelkal 
Uit  or  abuiire  luniei,  which  tM  falhen  bate  Rlt'en 

apHsred  lo  be  Inokina  ovit  Ihem.  he  MiniitTy 

old  book'.    He  hcftan  this  mode  of  publication 
early,  and  continued  it  to  bisl»tda;g.    Kedie^l 

Mill  UjTtiitl. «  pjfmm  SjmMu. 

Ithet  all,  Raynaud  wai  a  man  of  tax  acquire- 

witll  a  perfeel  conviction  that  he  had  Kt«Ki  hi. 

meni.  with  >  great  flow  of  ideas,  taileles,  and 

TDid  of  all  iudlment.    Aa  anecdolc  may  IK  Te- 
eurded  of  h^.m!%rhta:b  pot.  in  a  dear  ifght  the 

more  than  one  edition  of  hii  unuleahle  wDrk>. 

Klceron  hat  given  Ibe  litlca  of  iiM  of  his  thinu>. 
which  he  haj^ooked  over. 

UateoftheKUIeiatymen,    Raynaud ™ one dar 

ptewng  hard  a  lelDctaot  bookseller  to  publith  one 

of  his  woek^  who  replied.  "  Write  a  book  Ukc 

Father  Barril.  and  1  sfaaU  be  ^ad  to  print  it."    It 

happened  that  the  work  of  larH  wi,  iHllaged  fmm 

Raynaud,  and  oai  much  liked^  while  Ibe  original 
lay  on  the  shelf.    However,  ditt  onlv  aerved  M 

LOCAL  DESCRIPTIONS. 

NOTHINO  is  more  idle,  and  whal  ii  lew  to  be  tur- 

who  viBdicaUd  bit  lighn,  and  emptied  his  ouiicr 

lennhcned  dcscTiptions  of  Incaliiies  where  it  is 

on  bim  who  bad  been  ploughing  with  hit  heikr. 

Such  an  the  wrilets  whoTenw  Ing  all  the  plea- 

apologtoed  (qc  thta'r  lepeued  pmducti.  ns.  by  de- 

deKribe,— il  b  certain  Ihelt  luden  nceer  can ! 
These  lieicriptite  pauges,  h)  wlikb  wiiten  of 

daring  that  Ibey  write  only  Cot  Ihcir  own  amuse- 

ment ,  bnt  inch  pdrne  theuiicals  ihould  nol  be 
broughl  on  the  public  •taRe.    One  Caiherinoi  all 
bis  li?c  was  pirntinK  >  cou«l»  number  of  y«Mb. 
vl^-u.  in  lii«o.>-  and  on  anlkiuitio :  each  con- 
Bisiinit  of  about  ihiee  or  four  Ieave<  hi  qnartot 

in  toselher.   H  a  nine  from  nituie,  h  ii  p««-ilile 

Lenglet  du  rrnnoy  calls  him  "  Cnnd  anleor  des 

th«  (U  the  leaiam  of  Ibe  year  m.iv  he  jumfaieil 

pelils  li>it>."  Thi>  genllenun  liked  to  lire  amonE 
headpiece,  iduck   with   srtiimB,  and  bard  with 

logelberiorita  castle  or  an  aparfmcnt,  Iti  maimi- 

wetind,  ei-en  in  works  ot  celebiilv  wliole  pjwes 

nC  these  general  or  Ibefe  particular  descnptiie 

iketche-,  wbich  leave  uolhing  behind,  but  noun 

tubstantiies   prcppcd   up   hy   nndom   rpithcls. 

quaiia  psuei.    He  appean  la  have  published  about 

The  ol<l  .rilen  wen:  quite  deliEhltd  lo  Ml   up 

;.'ji;g"Si"re°'::niTin:iS;.i"ibrAi;rir;:f 

wo  hu££^  pkcn  oVibU  sort,  much  sought  after 

by  Ihe  cuiiowi  ft>r  their  rarity:  Bninet  complaint 

be  foulil  nceer  diKOver  a  complete  eolkeiion. 

RcuAry  idini-en  page\  cnntaimi^  ae atly  lii-e  hun- 

But  Calherinol  may  escape  "  the  pains  and  penal- 

but  hh  description,  we  may  w,  wa.  mmh  lielitr 

dcneribed  bv  BolUan,  wlio^  gni-l  vi"t  Icli  tlie 

ab-uvlilv   of  this  ■'al.oncbnce  •telik,"  in  UKi- 

maj-  be  allowed  In  print  Ihcmsclves  out  i  and  we  1  loadm^  a  work  >itli  uicl«  dcuil..                          j 

ucUtucTon  tmp  pLcin  de  ion  objct 


II  Fooipte  Jei  pUToih^  Is  nv 


ter  thin  ikicTtptk>n,    There  i> 

i^t  i  did  though  I  nuv  not  omi 
icpleunnto  the  reader,  vel  H. 
tcr  4  mut  intercttin^.  uid  the  lady  (for  toA 
- — wisjhai  the  hiEhest  cliltr  ""  *" *""""  "''"" 


luhject,  ukd  curiously 


,  which  the  finoUsh  reader  may  in  I 
pwlb'B  elegiDt  renUnii*  without  soinewhaE  pj 

ilh  the  writer  Ibnn 


in  the  delist  of  the  writer 


apartment  another  of  the  aame  foTl."  &c.    Yvl, 

man  w  pfwihie.  aretulectt  hire  fiequentty  at  nUied, 
and  the  Learned  trannlated  with  eatraordinary 


motr,  bv  giring  iD  plan  M 
eitraordmiiy  fact  ii  the  re 


thdr  ttfjE  iepinitel>'t  there  would  not  be  ov 
who  weed  with  another !" 

If.  then,  on  tbli  luhfect  of  local  dcscriptionii  « 
flnil  that  It  il  impo^hle  lo  convey  exact  noliani  i 
■  real  enninR  Kene.  what  mm  we  think  ofthv 

other  ntirteiKe  thin  the  confnied  mai:in;i<i]p  of 


wparuofa  prctnre.    The  pen  murt  not  intrude 


le  eyv,  tbongh  fiillj 


noble  ntn 

frequently  iotcnpcraed  lit 


CtilrOt.  of 
u  puhlisheJ  in  ibjs ;  ihe 


deliffhT  in  the  cnmpinv  of  "her  lord,"  who 
tenderly  uaoeiats  with  the  rcene.  Then 
fresfaneia  and  umpticity  In  the  dociiplion, ' 

Ample  lalle,  ample  loggle.  iin[bo  cortili 
Trouii  giungendo,  e  nohili  KUIBire 


Wide  lialb,  vide  rallnioi,  and  an  ample  conn 
Chamber!  adoin'd  bv  plcturei*  tootiiing  charrr 
I  foand  toeelher  hlended ;  nohle  kcuLplnrc 
In  marble,  polished  by  no  chiKi  rile ; 
A  noble  garden,  vherv  a  luting  Apnl 

And  tnidged  and^linked.  And  ronnil  iD  circr 
The  deepened  moil,  thawing  a  regal  lite. 


MASQl/SS.                                                    jBi   1 

eaquiiitc  in  the  imiuiivt  am  of  poetry,  painting, 

when  our  pubJk  theatn  «<»  In  It.  mde  iefaney. 

Mangue,   and   wmeiimei   relieved   il.     M;iione. 

dnmi,  ind  not  then  powiiing  that  num  cutiaia 

knowJedge  of  their  domeMic  hbtoty,  which  we 

ind  the  age  of  Masque.,  in  which  he  uyi.  echoing 

delight  to  eiplote,  the.  were  led  into  enoneou. 

notion)  of  one  of  the  moM  gotgeotih  the  mos 

fHtitiatinK,  and  the  m«l  poetka)  of  dramatic 

amujcmmtj.    Our  present  thcacrtcal  cxblUtUw 

and  the  entire  one  whieh  we  hare  by  heart,  couUl 

are  indeed  cm  a  Kale  ID  which  the  (wo-penny 

couia   never    hare  nraineil  Iheir  liiht ;  indour 
picliiieiiiue  and  kamed  rti/mia,  wilS  the  brilUanl 

changei  of  out  •cenctj,  would  h»ve  mjiddened  the 
"  nroiiertk'-nien  "  and  (he  "  tltC'WonieD  "  ol  the 

decoration,  to  tiAith  liiaitiir,  we  cetiainlrowe  ihe 

Maique  of  ComuL"  Comu.,however,i.onlyatine 

never  beheld  the  true  magical  illmiona  of  hia  own 

dnmai,  with  "  Enter  the  Ked  Coit,"  and  -  Biit 

the  Haaqoe.    The   only  moden  critic  who   had 

Hat    and   Cloak,"   helped    out   with   "painted 

written   with   nme  rewarch  on  Ihii  departed 

elolh.,"   cr.  »  a  bard  of  Chwle.  the  Second'! 

elegance  af  the  English  druna  wai  Walton,  whow 

llmecbanl..- 

magnificence  «id  lyrical  .piril  of  the  Mavjue. 

Your  agcJ  father,  came  to  plan  Ecir  wil, 
And  ut  knee-deep  in  nut4helli  in  die  pit." 

■■  The  Inner  Temple  M-t,  hy  WiUiara  Bniwne," 
the  padoral  poet,  whoK  addres  to  Sleep,  he  ob- 
Krved, "  remind!  u>  of  tome  fnourite  louche,  in 

tut  while  the  public  theatre  continued  long  in 

Milton't  ComuL  to  which  it  perbapi  gave  binh." 

thi)   contracted  Mate,  wiihoul   icenei,  without 

Vet  e.™  Warton  wa.  depcienlTn  that  Brt  of 

dteaci,  <riihMil  in  orcheitra,  the  court  displayed 

nwarch.  which  only  can  diaCOver  the  true  nature 

•nnicalnddnmatlc  cxhibitiona,  with  lurhcoHl)- 

cnlom  art,  that  we  nuf  doubt  if  the  eombined 

(bond  all  our  knowledge  of  Ihii  once  favourite 

geniiu  of  len  Jonnn.  Inieo  Jonei,  and  Lawct  or 

SstS^"'^'"' ""  ^^ 

knowledge  of  our  crilio.    The  critic  of  •  Maique 

fhiuk  Ughtiy'liY  wh^l  iSRiHSSS^  Lkd  "  ThJ 

heinl.  in<l  have  viewed  it.    The  only  witneiKi  in 

three  to  live  thouiand  pound,  were  eipendcd. 

thii  caie  are  tboie  letter-writen  of  the  day,  who 

and  Inigo  Jonc.  and  Lawn,  blended  into  one 

Ih^  have  dnwB  hi  illegiHnute  oj*i>\ao,  and  how 
™r  inherit,  fro.  the  «hcr  the^ror  ie  prop.. 
galei.  W>Tbnrtonia>donli!A*uuH,that"Jhate- 

g««  w- an  e«,n^_to_th«  /t^';^-  we«. 

MaxiucTi!  whIleoneDokthecare  of  Ihe  dancing 

Ac  many  which  thai  aingulur  critic  threw  out  ai 

uge  Whitelocke  1  who  ha.  chronicled  hi.  aclf- 

invention  of  ■  Carml*,  which  tor  thirty  vean 
alterwardi  vai  the  deliaht  of  the  nution.  and  wa> 
ble«ed  by  the  name  of"  Whitelocke^  Coranlo," 

In  the  TempeM*.  moM  (auciful  tcenc.    Oranier, 

who  hid  not  much  lime  lo  ftudy  the  mannen  of 

with,   in   1   note  on    Milton'.  Haique.  uid  that 

to  KC  a  play  1"    So  much  per»oja  honour  waa 

the  Ini  dFgree,    Ben  ]oo«n.  in  hi.  •  Ma«que  of 

Chri.ImiV   ba.    inlroduced    'Minced  Pye  ■   and 

the  MaKine  had  nearly  not  t^n  place,  lill'lhey 
hiton  the  expedient  of  Ihmwing  dice  to  deeiileoo 

could  pleae  hy  the  help  of  mmie,  machinery,  and 

tbdr  rank  in  the  proccwon  I    On  thia  jedouy  af 

tOHClhcr 

i^itb 

snii 

Bl  port."    Th.  tririri  cu»,  W. 

■sx,: 

imV 

Kb^  thn  ;>f  Ibc  irc^Kct,  w  rhi 

iiik-m 

Huque.  Khicfa  hithrtic 

tMaqat 

■nd  « jjRdon 

for  Ihe 

M.h,« 

t  of  Ihoc 

ut.na.  they 

wokca 

MppvjTnl  Mr.  Oifhmi'i  Mcmoin  of  Ben  Jonan 

lint  time.  cl^wTitely  npvBU  vith  Ihc  ckv  ji 
pciwtratiiw  Hil^t  (H  Ib.Lt  abint  of  our  dT4inji 
critic*-  I  imit  Ukc pwamptlan  ta  itd  to  wl 
lia»  Kcelt-nl  the  Iiiil4i]iij;  h^nd  ol  >  inaitcT ;  h 


inmbLT,  but  comhinedi  by  the  inirdtlunioi 
when  iCc  pLm  <•»  I'linncd.  Ihr  ^d  at  tlK  ir 


employed  nn  the  viwuiid  iUiic«;  and  all  IhJi 
Ihc  km^tdDm  ■ttoTdeiT  of  Tocal  anJ  iiblmmenlil 

for  prineei,  and  t>^  princei  it  w(s  pUved,  01  the^ 


I'he  Idalin  buwls  *nil » lo 
A<  if  Ihe  wind,  not  ihc,  did  «'. 


.mVSSiSm." 


dince  on  whit  one  of  the  nunplctm  gmilrmeii 
i(  Iblt  ap:  hn  ciUed  "Ttkc  cnmlr  ircTVUIiiHU  bT . 
Eidbmt  tKnllemen  md  ladici  of  honour,  HririaK 

fwnlKyond  the  pover  ol  Envy  to  diagmce-"    But 

n  poetry,  plinling.  aTchitecturc,  Ihey  h»e  not 
ince  bwn  equalled;  inj}  il  ill  bccoms  na  u» 
LTTaign  Ihe  ta»ie  of  a  period  which  poaacaed  ■ 
:lu»eT  of  writcn  of  whom  Ibe  mcanot  would  now 
ie  eflecmed  a  prDdi)Fr."  I  have  becD  caTTinl 
•rther  in  thii  eitrjet  Ihan  I  inlended,  by  tbe  tom 
if  the  current,  which  liutrict  Halone  down  fnm 
lur  uifltl,  who,  fortuiutely  for  his  ease,  did  Dot 
i»  to  read  this  denoMncement  for  hii  objeelBOB 
igailbt  masquea,  as  "bungUng  ihovi  j"  War- 
luiton  as  *■  fealerics ;"  Grinjier  as  "  wretched  per- 

MjHliicii  were  often  Ihe  privile  Ihealricals  nf  Ibc 


not  yet  dirtplaied  anr 


valcbful  and  ansious  piitner  widi  the  m 

lilb    wham     soinelinng,   howerer.    hi 

The  subiecl  of  tbis  i-ny  rare  maHlne  v 
4i|^t  and  the  Hours."    II  wnuld  be  ti 


lowardt"the  State,"  or  tbe  teat  of  Ihe  king,  waa 
abroad  descent  to  the  dancinc-place c  the  bower 
of  Flora  was  on  the  righl^  the  (lause  of  Nigbl  on 
Ihe  left ;  belween  them  a  hill,  hanging  like  a  cliff 

gamithed  with  1I0WCTS,  and  flowery  branches,  with 
lights  among  Ihem  J  the  house  of  Ni^l  ample  aitd 
ttilelyi  with  t>lack  columns  ttudded  with  goldm 
stars  i  within,  nothing  but  clouds  and  twinkling 

Btial  bau  and  owls,  conlinually  dwi  ini;.  M  totm 
as  Uic  king  entered  Ihe  great  ball,  ihe  hautboyi 
out  cif  the  wood  on  the  brp  of  tbe  bill,  entertained 
Ihc  lime,  till  Flora  and  ZepbyT  were  seen  busily 
g^sitherinti  Howert  from  Ihe  bower,  throwing  tbcm 


To  befriend  Ihii  pUrc  i 


know  the  nfilT»  without  prnerrltig  oik  dE  EhoK 
Dork  ikHTKkiiu  of  which,  pertups,  vie  hive  out- 
ItTcd  ttiE  tutc  I  It  )i  a  pliyliiL  dialaaiK  bHwnn 
1  BiLT.N  and  in  Kuini,w6Ue  Hihkt  uppean  In 
■■ ■^'- ■■— >;  h»if  tptngcd  with 

li|[hud  biick  torch , 


(Old,  unidil  her  Hi 
c>rh  h«rin(  1  llKhti 

Wherein  ion  thou  mcM  delight ) 


n  the  mirth  or  feet. 


Only  to  frequmt  (he  gro 
'  Whea-driight  k  innocen 


cninl  from  the  fpvctAtor,  whkh  prtidaced  i 
uulvarielv  n'nuiiDIhcLonl'lMuiii.attl 
riiigE  (if  the-  PihitiiM,  the  fcenc  wu  divid 

in  pcnpectliri:|  Uw 


ipearcfl  ■  wood 

heiiiBOfii- 

ptintnl.    Ob  the 


the  «m  .'uddcnlv  I   -■  '    '  -■-    '- '■ ' 


t  tlve  end  of  the 


ihorum  doirribcd,  "  «nd  chingcihle  ccmt^'ince 
if  the  BD^"  in  minner  of  m  echo,  performed  hi 
noR  Uuii  iDTIy  different  voica  and  initiumenl 
n  ruioui  pim  of  the  Kene.  The  architecturi 
■ecorarirm  >.Te  the  pride  of  Inigo  Jond;  mm 


belanged  to  the  whole  inventiDD,  ihowed  nira- 
oidicury  ImluMrjr  ind  ikill,  which  If  It  he  not  u 
llrcly  cipMed  in  writing  aa  It  anwarcd  in  vitw, 

the  ttltriiig  of  hb  art."    Wbc^er  this  ttrong  en- 


)  any  errata  I  hut  the  feeling  of  admiration  wu 
least  aa  much  aatonithed  aa  they  were 
n  exqditltk  muiuca,  aa  Mr.  GilTord  oh- 

cht  at  one  of  thcfc  maaquet,  and  which 
rd  haa  prgiened ,•  the  reader  mav  ice  rhc 
:  aoxlnusly  united  with  Inigo  Junet  in 

tie  pcrf.Tmcd,  turned  the  gloi>c  ot'  the 
idin^i  kxhind  tbe  aJlar."    Jn  thim  glpiie, 

waa  expi^Dcd  heightened  with  lih'er 
tiiii.  arood.  or  niher  hnn^  (for  no  aiie 

he  hni  ma»'iui,"t  &c.  I1ili  "  lurning 
roducing  a  very  maaical  elfin:!,  the  great 

haw  Kinietinio  cao^l  a  puan  from 
ill   W  the  bnnidinE   matliiniit.     One 


uukT&c-t  hy  an  engine  placed  nndcr  the  trii^e, 
.d  in  linking  were  to  tjpen.  and  the  maaquen 

;ir|{inal  note  i  "  Either  by  the  nmptttiij,  lujt'JT 

he  aame  day  they  bid  hecn  ihown  villi'  lAiflh 
idmiTation.  and  wern  kn  toffftticr  to  Ib^  ume 
light;"  that  ii.  they  wen.  wnriid  riiiht  u  Ihe 

nuit  have  perpLeud  the  niiie  maMiucn  on  the 


l''',j,     (>F  Di:S  MM/i:Ar\\  AM>  AXTHoSY  c<>[.I.L\>\<  MASr^^'I:!}-rr, 


I 


■    iiii.v    vc\.i'.;t/us   (.ruNMU.;    xl'.r    t.iiii  ic^    cf    llic    j-ort  . 

'  ti.cy  did  not  e'»^Mti.ii!\  iiijutc  the  iii.ikjnilicciu  c, 
the  pomp,  and  the  lairy  world  opened  to  the 
spectators.  So  little  was  the  tharattcr  of  these 
MAKcjuES  known,  that  all  our  critics  seemed  to 
have  fallen  into  repeated  blunders,  and  used  the 
MAsgt'E  as  Campion  suspected  hb  painters  to 
have  done,  "  either  by  simplicity,  negli^nce,  or 
conspiracy."  Hurd,  a  cold  systematic  critic, 
thoufi^ht  he  might  safely  prefer  the  masque  in 
the  Tempest,  as  "putting  to  sliame  all  the 
mas<iues  of  J  nwn,  not  only  in  its  construction, 
but  in  the  spttndour  of  its'  show  ;" — **  which," 
adds  Mr.  (;it)ord,  "  was  danced  and  sung  by  the 
ordinary  performers  to  a  couple  of  fiddles,  perhaps 
in  the  balcony  of  the  stage."  Such  is  the  fate  of 
criticism  without  knowledge  1  And  now,  to  close 
our  MAsyiEs,  let  me  apply  the  forcible  style  of 
Ben  Jon>on  himself:  "The  glory  of  all  these 
solemnities  h:id  perished  like  a  blaze,  and  gone 
out  in  the  beholders'  eyes;  so  short-livea  arc 
the  ImhIics  of  all  things  in  comparison  of  their 
boub !" 


OF    DES    MAIZBAUX,   AND    THE    SECRET 

HISTORY   OF   ANTHONY   COLLINS'S 

MANUSCRIFI'S. 

Des  Maizeauz  was  an  active  literary  man  of  his 
day,  who!«e  connections  with  Bayle,  St.  Evremond, 
lA>cke,  and  Toland,  with  his  name  set  off  by  an 
F.R.S.,  have  occasioned  the  dictionary-biogra- 
phers to  place  him  prominently  among  their 
"  hommes  illustre*."  Of  hb  private  history 
nothing  ftxvM  known.  Having  something  im- 
|iortant  to  communicate  respecting  one  of  his 
Irieuds  a  f^r  greater  character,  with  whose  fate 
he  stand<  connected,  even  DE8  Maizeauz  becomes 
an  v>bjovt  of  our  inquiry. 

He  wa»  one  of  tho»e  French  refugees,  whom 
|viitu'al  madness,  or  despair  of  intolerance,  had 
dm  vn  to  our  shores.    The  pnmcription  of  Louis 
\IV..  «hich  supplied  us  uith  our  skilful  workers 
in  Mlk,  also  pntduced  a  race  of  the  unemployed, 
who  pn.>\ed  not  to  be  as  exquisite  in  the  handi- 
villi  oi   l>«H>k-making ;   such  were    Motteux,   La 
«V^.v.  i^.V,  DurjnJ,  and  others.    Our  author  had 
«\Miv  iner  m  that  tender  state  of  youth,  lust  in 
t!iiK-  tt^  Kwune  half  an  Englishman ;  and  he  was 
Ml    amlM.lextnuis  m   the   languages   of  the   two 
i;»v*t  litci.iri    nations  of  Europe,  that  whenever  j 
Iw  t*x'k  up  hi!»  |>en,  it  i<  evident,  by  his  manu- 
wiipls  v^huh  I  ha\e  examined,  that  it  was  mere 
aixuKut  whuh  determined  him  to  write  in  French 
iM   in   >.uv.Ii*h.     CiiiniHKing  without  genius,  or 
vw'ii  t.i'»«c.  without  \naciiy  or  force,  the  sim- 
|.:.^u\  and  ilm'Uv\  of  his  stile  were  siiiFicient  for  | 
th»-  pmis'v^i't  a  rv.td>  dealer  in  all  the  imnutij  . 
;i.>* ..'..«.    lit\i.u\   aneidotrt,  curums  quotations,  I 
iK>m\-«  ol  i»bM  uiv   UhiLs  *x\'X  all  that   tuptUcx  j 
whuh  uuui  eutci   into  the  history  of  hterature, 
w(h«iMt  lounnji  A  hiMor\.    "niesC  bttlt  things! 
v»;»  »h  .hd  H»  Wkil  ol  ilKiiiwlvvt.  withimt  any  con- 
II.S  .M»«iih  anitlmn;  viMT.  Uiame  trivial  when 

•  i:..,  ,..u  ii,xl  \\\<  f,«iin  ,»i  \.«Uumnt»us  ininulene>s; 
«..J  i»M  Mx  mx  at  Uii^tli  imimncd  that  no- _ 

,  i;ii.»s  '-Ml  in.»vU«u»  w\«v  n»%**v*i\  to comjH*jc  the  ■ 

l,\N .  ,'i  »••»  II  .•!  CM""» '  ^^  •'*'  'l»»*  **'*  ^'*  ixWTii  he 

|aNst\t«HJ  « ,%«|«.ow»  liK  ot  |l**U\  in  which  he  tulU 


,  cver\  thin,'    lir   i-'>-.i..\  .'•..,.:; 
,  he  more   tfilioi.s,   ind   rii><re  uv.r. 


it  be  a  grie\ou>  Uidt  to  cunit  i»C':l..ni;,  j.t.<1  rr.  lv 
the  writer  to  l»e  deficient  in  the  devciopainj: 
of  character,  and  that  :>ympathy  which  throvi 
inspiration  over  the  vivifying  page  of  hiocnphj, 
yet,  to  admit  everything  has  this  men't— tfait 
we  are  sure  to  find  what  we  want !  Warboitw 
poignantly  describes  our  De»  .Maixeauz,  id  ok 
of  those  letters  to  Dr.  Birch,  which  be  wrote  ii 
the  fervid  age  of  study,  and  with  the  impatteat 
vivacity  of  hb  genius.  "  Almost  all  the  lifc> 
writers  we  have  had  before  ToUnd  and  Da 
Maizeaux  are  indeed  strange,  insipid  oratiUB; 
and  yet  I  had  rather  read  the  wont  of  tbm, 
than  be  obliged  to  go  through  with  this  of  Mil- 
ton's, or  the  other's  life  of  Boileau ;  where  tbeic 
is  such  a  dull,  heavy  succession  of  long  quota- 
tions of  uninteresting  passages,  that  it  maka 
their  method  quite  nauseous.  But  the  ^-erbose, 
tasteless  Frenchman,  seems  to  lay  it  down  m  a 
principle,  that  e%-ery  life  mutt  be  a  book,— ud, 
what  is  worM,  it  see'ms  a  book  without  a  life;  for 
what  do  we  know  of  Boileau,  after  all  his  tedioa 
sturt  ?" 


DES  Maizealz  was  much  in  the  employ  of  ok 
Dutch  booksellers,  then  the  great  monopo'lizen  is  I 
the  literary  mart  of  Europe.    He  supplied  thdr 
"nouvelles  litteraires"  from   England;  but  tbe 
work-sheet  price  was  verj-  mean   in  those  daix 
I  have  seen  annual  accounts  of  De.s  Maizeavi 
settled  to  a  line,  for  four  or  five  pounds ;  and  )tt 
he  sent    the  "Novelties"  as  fre*h  as  the  pi* 
could  curry  them  !     He  held  a  conhdential  cnr* 
respondence  with  these  great  Dutch  bookseUen, 
who  consulted  him   in   their  distresses;   and  be 
seems  rather  to  have  relio'ed  them  than  hinudf. 
But  if  he  got  only  a  tew  florins  at  Rotterdam, 
the  same  "nouvelles   litteraires"  sometimes  se- 
cured   him  valuable   friends   at    London;  for  in 
those  days,  which   perhaps  are  returning  on  u»« 
an  English  author  would  often   appeal    to  a  it^ 
reign  journal  for  the  commendation  he  might  faii 
in  obtaining  at  home ;  and  I  have  discovered,  it> 
more  casen  than  one,  that,  like  other  smug|i;lc<& 
commodities,    the    foreign    article    was   often    o^ 
home  manufacture ! 

I  give  one  of  these  curious  bibliopolical  di*' 
tresMTS.  Sauzet,  a  bookseller  at  Rotterdam,  wli«^ 
judged  too  critically  for  the  repose  of  his  author^* 
seems  to  ha%'e  been  alwa\-s  fond  of  pn»jccting  *»• 
new  "  Journal;"  tormented  by  the  ideal  excellent.'^ 
which  he  had  conceived  of  such  a  work,  it  vexc-*^ 
htm  that  he  could  ne^er  find  the  workmen  * 
Once  disappointed  of  the  aaustance  he  expecte'*-^ 
from  a  writer  of  talents,  he  was  fain  to  put  u  f 
with  one  he  was  ashamed  of;  but  warily  stipu  " 
lated  on  very  singular  terms.  He  confided  th«* 
precious  literary  secret  to  Des  Maizeaux.  I  tran^' 
late  fn>m  his  manuscript  letter. 

"  I  send  you,  my  dear  Sir,  four  sheet^  of  th« 
continuation  of  my  journal,  and  I  hope  th»  secon<^ 
part  will  turn  out  better  than  the  former.  Tb^ 
author  thinks  hinu.-lf  a  very  able  person  ;  but  ' 
must  tell  \ou  frankly,  that  he  is  a  man  without 
erudition,  and  without  anv  critical  discrimios' 
tion ;  he  writes  prettv  well,  and  turns  passably 
w  hat  he  sa>-s ;  but  tKat  is  all !  Monsieur  Van 
fitfen  ha\  ing  failed  in  his  promises  to  rraiise  my 


OF  DES  MArZEAUX.  AND  ANTHONY  COLLIXS'S  MANUSCRIPTS.    36;  1 

hopn  on  Ibii  ocindon,  necemly  comi«ll«l  me 
10  Lltt  Kcoune  U>  him  i  bul  (or  iix  moniM  inly. 

■nd  DD  cunililion  Oat  he  ihould  doi,  on  inr  tc- 

forward  that  work,  nor  digat  the  materials  he  had 

lAi  auiluT  <J  lit  Joimals  loT  bb  -tmt  iJone 

™'' A^'ort  of  that   nature  requ.iea  a   steady 

oooM  be  •ufficient  <o  mde  even  >  puubLe  b«>k 

applieaiion,  free  from  Ihe  caret  and  avoc.lion. 

incident  to  ill  oenoni  Bbligol  to  seek  fur  their 

■rill  conlide  to  you  In  tccrecy  Ihe  mme  of  ihii 

Jiithoij  n  11  Monir.  Dt  Lhmri.'    Von  ta  how 

ducting  the  lax  of  four  ihilUnci  in  Ihe  pound, 
and  other  chirget.  bringt  me  in  ahoul  40*.  a  i-ear 

Uiilouily  praeoted  10  Ihe  ed>lon  of  tertun  re- 

ofout English  money*  Thii  pension  wai  mnled 

to  me  in  1]  le.  and  J  owe  it  chieHy  to  the  triend- 

fer  it  <i  unuliy  the  Dr  iioilrrj  who  apend  Ibeir 

ihip  of  Mr.  Additon,  who  wa.  then  .ectetaty  to 

the  Bari  of  Whatlon,  lorJ  lieolenant  of  IreUnd. 

In  1711,  ■>.  and  .4,  1  wa>  appointed  one  of  the 

mide  h^nwlf 'vei^uKful"  ot^i'men  of  lettenl 

•od  Mniculirly  to  penont  of  rankj  »nd  he 
faunJ  pitronige  *nd  a  pennoB.—Uke  bb  tdcno. 

Halifax. 
"And  tbU  11  all  I  eter  rectit-ed  from  the  gotem- 

very  modcnle  1     A  fiiend  Co  Htcnrr  men,  he 
lived  imongn  Ihem.  from  ■■  Otmlm  ■■  itenley.  up 

menl,  thoD^  I  had  tome  claim    10  the  royal 

to  Adduoo,  Lord  Hilibx,  and  Anthony  CoUini. 
I  hnd  a  curioui  chmcter  of  eui  Du  Haiiiaui 

pamphkl  entitled  '  Lethe,-  whkh  was  puhluhed 

to  ohoK   frther  tPope".    B»l  of  0.(ard)  inS 

in  Holland,  and  afterwardi  trantlated  into  EuKliih, 

al  Dublin,  proved  to  oAen.lK  to  Ihe  minrury  m 
Inland,  that  il  wat  burnt  by  Ihe  handi  of  the 

Hi)  lordih^  "^"rt^k^ilh  bM,  T«^ pS^iS; 

.nd  high-cfaun:b  notion..    ••  T^i.  I>=  Hailoux 

hangman.    But  so  it  b,  thai  after  hailng  ihowed 
on  A\  occaiioni  my  aeal  for  the  myii  family,  and 

b  1  greit  mu  with  thoK  who  ire  picued  lo  he 

endeavouied  to  make  myielf  lerviecahle  to  Ihe 

CuLLiM,  coJkca  pHuniout  of  boolu  for  their 

public  by  ieve»l  booki  publbhed;   alter  fortv 

j-ean'  «.y  in  England,  and  in  an  advanced  age,  1 

fiaat  thit  Kt  of  men."    The  Ktret  hWory  I  un 

find  mytelf  and  family  tteititule  of  a  sulfic'ient 

lirelihood.  and  luffiTTing  fiom  eomplaints  in  Ihe 
head  and  impaired  tighTby  conttani  application  10 

Ibey  an  «fil  xquunled  with,  yet  which  hu 
hilbeno  remiined  unknown.     He  teUt  hit  own 

""  l'!!li' ™tident,  my  lord."  be  adds  "  that  if  .be 

queen,  to  whom  1  wat  made  known  on  accasivn 

dr«ed   lo  1  noWe  liicnd  diincterinic  of  m 

with  my  present  dittrw,  the  would  be  plcajcd  10 

wh«e  mme,  after  all  hb  painful  laboon,  might  be 

Among  the  conlidcntial  literary  fciendt  nf  Dii 

ln>er»d  In  my  "  CaUmilAt  of  Authon." 

Haieuui  he  had  Ihe  honour  of  ranting  AHIHOSV 

In  thi<  letter  he  aoHnmca  hb  intendon  of 

puhhifaine  a  dldioniiy  Uke  Bayle ;  hiring  writ- 
ten the  life  of  Bayk,  ihe  nnl  ucp  wu  n>  bef  ome 

bimwlf  a  Biyle;  wrtiort  bibe  puuge  of  literary 
•telution  1    He  bad  pubiidicd,  ai  a  ijxcimFn,  Ihe 

literary  conccmi.     These  in    the  formation  of 

and  one  of  a  litera^r  knot  of  ingeniom  men,  con- 

book.,  Ihat  he  drew  up  the  catalogue  with  hb 

tisting  of  SallcngR,  St.  Hyacinlhi,  Prosper  Mir- 
chan?,  tec,  who  carrietl  on  a  imart  reiicw  for 

known  work)  withoni  preiiiing  hit  name  ;  bul 

thoae  day^  pnblbhed  at  the  Hague  under  the  title 
of  "loumal  Lillcrahe."    They  all  compoKd  in 

obscure   and   polemical   pninB,   he   incurred    Ihe 

1  Tub,  Btc.     He  did  loniethlng  mon,  but  not 

belter  j  be  altempted  lo  imiuie  the  Spetlatot,  in 

hi>  "Le  Miianthrope,"  I7»6.  whkh  eihibia  ■ 

for  reward,  it  leemi  a  mockerv  that  the  fncome 

whom  be  coold  not  make  rery  Urely. 

ibould  be  »  grievously  leduced.  which  cruel  cus- 

Or ImUT,  taaa  had  hb  name  dipped  inlo  our 

tom  Rill  pferalb. 

cape  tbe  fataUty  of  the  alphabet ,  hi>  numuroui 

t  This  letter,  or  pelition.  was  written  in  .,j.. 
In  I7M  he  procured  bii  pension  10  be  placed  on 

his  wife'.  I,<e,  and  be  dierini745. 

nni  heen  »  hunm-,  he  would  ha'i-e  giien  piooti 

He  wia  sworn  in  at  gentleman  of  hit  mijetty'i 

privy  dumber  U  .jji.-Sloane't  «...  4189- 

1    ' 


A".  .1  \/'  A  y 


\  )'  '    '/  /./ V-'^   MA  \'r  -'-IJi- 1\ 


:  ■.  ::',.:Ki  trcni  .:.  fim.n  aiut  i»fii/j  prev  iiU  in  iIk-m.*  . 
w.-L'..  the  til.iiK   and  Ic.iiuin^  o!  Collins  were 


A  It 


I    r  ;  - 


the  ^r«l  cl.i«.     Hi<  nioraN  were  imnrcicul.itc. 


I  '.      1 : 1    1  -. ;    '.  •   ■ .  1  .  •  ■  i   1 1    n  I . .  ■  1 1  •  I  '     !  1 :     r-  .  : . ' ; . 

.  *■  1     ■■     ''."     ■'..;'    .    .-■.f'.-.    .ill. I    .'....;•     : 
\    ^Uiri.li    .ii  J  /T,  i;  •;:.       Bvit    It     I>K>    Mv.'MiX. 

ifist  lii"»  lioiiour  111  thi-*  trinvu"tir>n,  lie  ww  -it  ht- ir: 
an  hone5t  mm,  who  hjil  swcrvcti  for  i  tin^^le 
moment ;  hi^i  convricnre  w:i.s  siMin  auMkencd,  :ind 

.ii\d  hi*  i>cr»on.U  character  iiulepcndent ;  but  the  ]  he  experienced  the  mixt  violent   cnmpiincTioQ». 

.■_:ii  ;^..'  ■/■  jcit-Mii  of  tlio<e  <l3>"s  contrived  even- ,  It  wa<  in  a  paroxysm  of  this  nature  that  he  ad- 

:?i.>in«  to  ^t.ih  in  the  dark,  till  the  taMc  became  ;  drevted  the  following  letter  to  a  mutual  friend  of 

Is.'rtdtMry  with   some.     I   shall   mention    a   fact 

I'J  thi*  cniel  bii^otry  which  occurred  within  my 

run  nlwcnation  on  onj  of  the  most  polished  men 

oi  the  ai:e.    The  late 


the  late  Anthony  Collin»  and  himaeif. 

Sir,  January  6,  1730. 

I  am  vet}'  glad  to  hear  you  arc  rome 
to  town,  and  as  vou  are  my  he>t  friend,  now  I 
have  lost  Mr.  Collins,  give  me  leave  to  open  my 
re;-licd  by  hi-*  *' Rem.irks"  under  the  name  of '  he.irt  to  you,  and  tol>eg  your  a.viistjnce  in  an 
PhiieleutherxiH  l.ip^icnMs,  to  Colmxs's  *'  Di'<course  j  atlair  which  higtily  concerns  both  Mr.  Collim's 
on  Free-thinkinii,"  when  many  yearn  after  he  !  (your  friend)  and  rny  own  honour  and  reput.iiion. 
di- covered    him    fillen  into  pjeat   distress  con-    The  case,  in  lew  word^,  stands  thus:  Mr.  CoUin« 


n?m.incc  entitled   his 
or.lui.irv   f.ut,  that   Dr. 


Mr.  CrMHtKLAxn,  in   the 

"  Life,"  gave    this   cxtra- 

Bentlev,  who  so  ably 


c.uiui;  that  by  lia\in^  ruined  Collins's  cha- 
rutcT  as  a  writer  for  oer,  he  had  lieen  the  oc- 
c.iMon  of  his  per«onai   miser)*,  he  liberally  con- 


by  his  List  will  and  testament  left  mc  his  manu- 
s*ripts.  Mr.  Tomlinvin,  who  fir*t  acquainted  mc 
with  it,  told  me  that  MrN.  Collins >hould  t>c  f:lad  tcv 


tnhuted  to  his  maintemnce.  In  vain  I  mentioned  *  have  them,  and  I  made  them  over  to  her ;  where- 
to that  eleji'int  writer,  who  was  not  curious  alwut ;  upon  she  was  pleaded  to  present  me  with  ^ft>■ 
fact"*,  that  thi-*  i>ersou  could  never  hive  been  .^n- !  guineas.  I  de<ia>d  her  at  the  s;ime  time  to  take 
."..'•ri  C<»irms,  who  h  nl  always  a  plentiful  fortune;  i  care  they  should  be  kept  s;ife  and  unhurt,  whitti 
and  when  it  was  sui»ge^ted  to  him  that  this  "  A.  I  she  promi<eil  to  do.  This  wa<  done  the  ac  of  Lt** 
Collin'*,"  ai  he  printed  it.  mu^t  have  been  ./rfAwr  1  month.     Mr.  Tomhnson,  who  managed  all  thi » 


Ci»llin"*,  the  hi>torical  compiler,  who  w.w  often  in 
peiuniary  diiliculties,  Mill  he  i>erM<tcd  in  sending 
the  he  down  to  i>osterity,  totiiUm  i-rrhis,  without 
alter.ition  in  hi^  second  edition,  ol>ser\ing  to  a 
liK-ud  of  mine,  that  "  the  story,  while  it  told  well. 


alfair,  was  present. 

Now,  having  further  comi-lered  that  matter, 
tind  that  I  have  dune  a  mn^t  vii  ked  tiiini;.    I  in 
persuaded  that  I  have  l>etra>e<i  the  trust  ot  a  }>erK.xi 
who  for  16  vears  has  given  me  continual  iuntanve* 


mi::ht  >er\e  as  a  striking  in^tance  of  his  great  of  his  friendship  and  confidence.  lam  comince*-! 
relatives  genen>sity  ;  and  that  it  shnuU  stand,  Ik*-  j  that  I  have  acted  contrary  to  the  will  and  intentiorft 
^au^e  it  could  do  no  harm  to  any  but  to  .Anthony  \  of  my  dear  detx-ascd  friend  :  showeii  a  di^re^iard  t*» 


Collins,  w  hom  he  considered  as  little  short  of  an 
alluiM."  So  much  f«.»r  this  pious  Iraud  \  but  he  it 
re»iillected  that  this  Anthony  Com.ins  was  the 
contideniial  Iriend  of  I.(k'ke,  of  whom  I.Oike 
Mid, on  his  d\iug  lK*d,  that  "Coi,lin->  was  a  mui 
^Khom  he  valu-.-d  in  the  first  rank  of  those  that  he 


the  particular  mark  of  esteem  he  gave  mc  on  th;*t 
occasion;  in  short,  that  I  have  forfeiteti  what  1* 
dearer  to  me  than  my  own  hie — honour  and  repu  - 
tat  ion. 

The>e  mel-ncholy  thoughts  liavc  made  so  gre»C 
an   iinpre'.>ii)n  ujKin  itie,  that   I   |.n»test  to  \im    I 


lert  iH'hind  Imn."     .\n<l  the  la>t  wonU  of  Collins  I  can  enjoy  no  rest;   tliey  h.iunt  me   cverTwhcnr, 


tliv  and  nijjht.  I  earnestly  lieseech  \ou,Sir,  to 
reprvM-ut  my  unhappy  case  to  Mr>.'^'ollins.  J 
acted  with  all  th.>  simplicity  and  uprightness  of  ni* 
heart  ;  I  considered  that  the  mss.  would  Ik*  as  sLtlc 
in  Mr*.  Collin^•s  hands  as  in  mini: ;  thai  she  was  no 
less  obliged  to  prcsenc  them  thii.  m\!ielf;  an  J 
that,  as  the  hbrar>'  was  lelt  to  her,  they  mii;ht 
naturally  go  along' uith  it.  BcMde^,  I  thought  I 
could  not  too  much  comply  with  the  desire  of  a 
lady  to  whom  I  ha\c  so  many  obligations.  But  I 
see'  now  clearly  th.\t  this  "is  not  fulfilling  Mr. 
CoUins's  will,  and  that  the  duties  of  our  conHienec 
are  superior  to  all  other  ri'gards.  But  it  is  in  her 
lK>wer  to  forgive  and  mend  wh.\t  I  have  done  im- 
prudently, but  with  a  good  intention.  Her  high 
CoiHM*  nlkvts  honour  on  the  charaiter  of  Dts  j  sense  of  virtue  and  generosity  will  not,  I  am  sure, 
Mm."»  *»  ^.  **^*  li*-*  p^'ved  unworthy  of  it '  He  j  let  her  take  any  advanLige  of  my  wcikncM;  and 
M^iclx^t  hiniso'll  to  deiray  his  trust,  practise*!  on  f  the  tender  reg.ird  she  has  for  the  memor>-  of  the 
S  the  earnest  desire  «il  the  widow,  and  perhaps'  be^t  of  men,  and  the  tenderest  of  huslunds  will 
N  the  arts  of  a  Mr.  'I'oinlinvni,  w  ho  apiH'ar>  to  not  suifer  that  his  intentions  should  l>c  frustrated, 
)^«tc  Wv\\  iiiiroduiid  into  tlie  lamib  by  tlie  re- ;  and  that  she  should  Ik  the  instrument  of  violating 
,v«im*"ndat.on  ol  I>ean  S>kes.  whom  at  len-^th  what  is  most  sacrcii.  If  our  late  friend  had  dc- 
Wnirrl't"<*'>i«  -'"^t  whom  the  widow,  to  save  her  '  signed  that  his  mns.  shouhl  remain  in  her  hands, 
MMitalion,   was  anerw-ariLs   obliged   to  discanl.* 


on  his  tiwn  deith-bed  were,  that  "he  was  per- 
>uaded  he  was  gonic  to  that  pi  ice  which  Goil  had 
di*«i.:;ned  lor  them  that  love  him."  The  cause  of 
tiue  reli.i'j'in  will  never  be  avsisted  by  usiii''  such 
KMk\  vcNvls  as  Cumbf^Unui's  wilful  calumnies, 
which  in  the  eiul  must  run  (uit.and  be  found, like 
the  pre^'ut,  mere  empty  fictions  ' 

An  exlraottlinary  clrcum^lancc  occurred  on 
the  death  of  Am iiow  Collins.  He  left  Inrhind 
him  a  considerable  numlH'r  of  his  own  manu- 
MPpts,  and  there  was  one  collection  formed  into 
ei^ht  ivt.ivt.  \olumes:  but  that  they  might  be 
s<\ured  from  the  common  fite  of  manuscripts, 
he  iH'ilueathed  them  all,  ami  contided  them  to 
the  care  ol   our  l».s   Mm/.f.m*x.    The  choice  of! 


Mfwtali 
•  Thn  Information  i»  fn>m  a  note  found  among 


EX'S  Maizeaux's  papcn; 
meaivs  to  ascertain. 


but  its  truth  I  have  no 


OF  liES  MAF^rATX.  AXD  A.VmOXr  COLUXS'S  XASVSCRIPTS.  3B; 


All  (hii  J  yntfovi  10  nprcvni  ro  brr  in  the 
nitdf  tictlcr  Hub  I  nn  Id  thiiwnrfit  Jiurvtliin 
ntcL-m  Hud  frienddiLp  vhUii  hii  cDnlifiuL<il  n 

honour  bis  mflnory. 

1  Knd  you  the  lilty  Eninw  t  ircciTol.  whkh  I 
ila  now  look  upon  v  Vrit  wjige*  of  Iniq^nil)' ;  vnU  I 

1  hope  il  of  hcrjuflticc.  «|uif>',  fnd  rcgtfd  to  Mr. 


ii'cl  i>f  ji  rtpiiTt,  Thj|1«hf  hid  permitted  tntucrtpti 
:if  thw  vnry  fnanu^cripbi  to  gd  jihmad.    tIlh 

air,  Ifi'c*  10,  IJJ6-J. 

I  1)dvt  Ihu  long  waited  in  oitHx-td- 
lion  Ihal  ynu  would  enlbhbavE  ciUcd  on  Dun 
Hyka,  u  Rir  B.  Lucy  nid  jiiu  Inloidid.  Ihit  I 
mi^l  "iavt  hhl  wme  uliAlKiion  in  RUtion  to  a 
ver^  unjuit  repinach.  Til,  that  1.  or  tcmehDily 
ihat  t  hid  trnncd,  hwl  Mrajtil  nme  nf  ihc  Inn- 
icriplN  or  HII.  ol  Mr.  Cnllfu  into  the  BMiop  n[ 
LondDn'i  hdndi.  T  amuntf  Ihtrrfare,  nnrc  Vfai 
have  mit  ben  with  llie  tkn  ■  wn  drriFal,  nut 

indw  Bi^inpof  Londuin^hkiubL    f  am  dcti.-nnLned 

to  mcc  out  the  ip^nimb  of  incLi  ■  report  \  — -" 

1  chnr^.     I  ikvifc  x  very  ip«dy  inswcr  to  Ihii, 


miupprchcnded,  I  hcg  k 
Icing  bleJy  with  tonu 


n  Km.  ol  whirh  Tlun  it  >  tr..nKi^ 
flti^ml  lod  the  iraiw^pt  .te  In  j-onr 


af  tJHiLy  nr 


iLlhcrilH;yhcl<nth 


entire  jnd  perfect,  or  whcttwr  umcoi:  >■'« ■£ 

will  uurc  youneJf,  and  utlufy  your  Trivoda,  thai 
■evcnl  ImporUnt  igAtmw  mn  nfe  in  XTur  bindft, 
■nd  thai  the  nvwt  ii  £dic  and  grouodlen.  AU 
IhHl  take  11%  Libetlylo  offer  out  f^  the  vinfpilar 
tipect  1  alwiyi  profWed  For  you,  and  For  Ihc 

if  in  the  neneml  dU^onxryi  ind  1  htipe  my 
ppeu  when  1  pubiiah  hi*  lite. 


youn,  ftmn  whkh  I  hoped  lor  »nie  wtlslJiction  lo 

thjnk  myielt  very  dnp^  concerned.    Yon  idl  me 

now.  that  ynu  w»a  kft  lo  vcrar  own  conjccturci 

p^iticulAT  nia.  wufrfcpoTted  to  hive  l-illcn 

Ihehandaorilrangeni  And  thai  upon  a  icrinut 

(tTinideratkm  you  waa  Induced  to  htlie^'e  that  ir 

■hlfh  there  wa>  i  truiacript. 

I  muU  bee  nl  you  iDiiailrfy  iiK  my  eipllcilly 
«hn  were  the  pemns  that  teponed  thii  to  vnu. 

uudhlmi  wbar  sroMikd*  had  you  ri^TtiMir ii.i  - 

nlhcrthin  In  any  other  him. nf  tXu.h  iln  il  »  i- 
ammcTlpt  ?     InefE  that  you  will  ^"^  i<  ti  |.!-ii. 

'hv  you  laid  the  Bilhop  ol  E.nn'i"n.  il   i"ii< 

hare  The  aJneular  raped  for  Mr.  c.->ilin-  ^^lll  ii 
you  pfolevs  that  you  wonld  help  mc-  in  u  i.  <^  ..ui 
thb  npniach,  whkh  b  io  abuuve  to. 


I  Hatteml  myiclf  that  mv  lut 
I  hive  uliiHed  you,  but  I  hare  the  m 

lean  once  tnoie  to  ttl  th><  matter  Tl)Ehl. 
n  lien  I  (old  you  what  had  brm  fcpnned,  I  acted, 
ail  thought,  the  part  ol  a  Ine  friend,  by  aciju4lnt- 
ioE  you  thai  vme  of  ynur  u-u.  had  been  pur- 
loined, io  order  that  nm  ml^  enmlne  a  fact 
which  to  me  appeared  of  the  laal  copvquence ; 
and  I  verily  believe  thai  ever^'hwly  in  my  caw 
would  haie  eapccled  thinki  for  tuch  a  Friendly 
infoimatloo.  But  inHead  of  that  I  lind  mitelf 
reprcKnted  h  an  enemy,  and  chtUenicnl  to  pni- 
ducEpn»laaod  wiineBsof  athiofcdnipt  In  con- 
vemtLOn.  a  hearsay,  aa  il  in  thov  cavt  people 
kept  a  rcgiflerof  what  they  hear,  ind  entered  the 
nameaof  the  per»M  wbo  tpnke,  the  time,  plare. 


Ill^ToJlV  "F  \r\V  \V"l:I> 


•  ;  ■>  .  .v..  I  .ii.1  "  iw  M  I  n-\  1 1  I  ii'tii'^lit  lit  s\i,  !i 
:'.  i:^.  III  J  wiicncMT  I  h  ippciK-d  to  heir  th.it  v)nic 
cf  niy  tricnJ>  had  M>ine  liJss,  I  thoui^ht  it  my  ihity 
to  jciiiLtint  thorn  vith  such  report,  that  thoy 
niit:ht  inquiro  into  the  matter,  and  see  whether 
there  wa*  any  t^n^und  for  .t.  But  I  never  tnmbleji 
mx-^lf  with  the  naine^  of  the  person-*  who  spoke, 
.i-"  Inrinj;  a  thiu^  entia'Iv  needless  and  unprotit- 
able. 

line  me  le.ive  further  to  observe,  that  you  arc 
in  iu>  \i .i\ ^  r : '.If  p /:i ./  in  the  ni.itior,  an  yc^u  seem  to  I 
l»e   appTeh(.-u>i\  e   >«»u   arc.      Supp<*c  Mime  m>s.  I 
h.»\e  been  taken  iiu»  of  \out  l-.br.irj,  who  will  say  1 
>.  II  I'Ujihl    ^  iH.ir  'he  puil*'  oi  :t  ?     What  man  in 
ill"  >cn''js  ^ho  hi*  the  hon  ur  to  know  y<»u,  will 
v.>    \iui  .j.ne  jour  I'on-tL-nt  to  such  thin^— that 
\.u  ^^a5  privy' to  it?    How  e.»n  vou  then  take 
r.-,s  n  \«.'urv^ii  an  .wtjon  to  whi*:!.  you  was  neither 
;-:\  \  n*  r  v.'n^T.:m»;  ?     IX»  not  such  thines  happen 
1  ■.  ;.r\   d.i\ .  .ii:d  do  the  lo^r*  ih:i.k  themselves  in- 

"."vi,!  iT  -  * . .;  .i  w  hen  they  are  t.i.ked  ol  ?  Is  it  im- 
V^  '".Me  t.'  K-  Vetr.i'  edl'v  a  peiMm  we  confided  in  ' 
\>-u  V  \:i  v'.'..)i  I  trid  yoii  WIS  a  U'port,  a  sur- 
T^:x." :  *.'ii  c.wl  It,  My,  an  I'-JifKattr-n^  and  speak 
vt  .'■■  '-vh'ja^i!  tlicr  ^asa  p..>t  I  nd,  >^hercin  I 
'^ki-.icd  ;:.i'  ir.!i. :pi '.'ion :  I  ihoui^ltt  I  had  the 
'■.  ".v.ir  :■>  l>e  lv:'er  known  to  \ou.     Mr.  Collin* 

■•wxl  r-.o  and  oteemcd  me  tor  my  inte^ritv  and 
*^:*.,xr::*,  of  vk!;;ch  he  h.itl  v;»erai  pnx»N ;  fjow  I 
h.ixc  Kxn  dr.:\in  in  to  in.iire  h'.m,  to  forfeit  the 
iCvxxi  o}*'.Rt»'n  he  had  t  mt.aiiil  >hhich,  were  he 
nou  alive,  u.^uid  desert*. dly  exptjse  me  to  his 
u!rT\v**t  ».or.tf.npt,  I*  a  s^rwi  whivh  I  shall  earn-  to 
t^e  i;nvt.'.  It  ^«i'>uld  in:  a  »ort  of  comfort  to  me, 
f.  t^»><  >»h.^  h.i\e  con^rnted  I  should  l>e  drawn  in 
^*cre  m  iw.v.e  nie.i^unf  >enNible  of  the  guilt  towards 
s*^  J^x\i.  kind,  and  u-enerous  man. 

7"^.*.^^  >»,-  Y-nd  t*'..it  M^,tK^iJti  after  I)Es  MaI7.eaI'X 
had  uKv:s>..ioraiclv  K'tr.ived  his  sicred  tnint,  his 
Tv:s":.'r*  «  i>«'i.l  au.iko;  and  the  sincerity  ol  his 
jT^.c?  ■*  .»::v-*icd  b\  the  a;kvlini;  »t>le  whi(.h 
ilk'v~.*v«  »t :  the  <piiit  of  his  departed  friend 
see~.:<.\l  to  l<  hi'vcnnt:  aUnit  him,  and,  in  his 
:".- w;n».  it'..»n.  would  haunt  hitn  to  the  ^ravc. 

^'^c  niture  of  the>e  manu>cr'pt>;  the  c.uise  of 
:?e  e  »r:*i-M  de*i*e  of  ret  liniu^  them  by  the  widow ; 
•/.o  vv.*,u:  uKinondlinc-s^  of  her  conduct  to  Des 
V*  :*%'  \;  and  \*hether  thee  manuscripts,  cim- 
>■*;:•<  c:  v:.'.*-.t  tvs.ivo  \ohimes  with  their  Iran- 
^•^■',•^s  ««. -o  vl».>trin  I'd,  Oi  are  still  e\i*!ini;,  are  all 
\"»-v  «:*'.'»:  .:'.Cv">  M!;uh  m\  researches  ha\e  hitherto 
e.*t  i-t^cTta^neU. 


HIi?l»RY  OF  NKW  WORDS. 

N»v":xV>.  or  the  novclt*  oi  words  and  phr.i*es. 
r-*  an  i^Tk  V  .::.*n,  %kl'.uh.  with  th"  opulence  of  our 
r*\-«k-.:t  l.n^.ia.;e.  tl'.^r  knjcnsli  phil.l.^i^T  is  most 
N-,'«*  t,»  *..,^\*  ;  I'ut  we  ha\e  punian*  or  pre- 
«\N,\:<s»e:  III :.:■»;;, suivtNti!iou*i\  nsce  !  llie  fan- 
t«N-  xv'.:-:  v;.e  »M  a.\vs.»t  ..^n  or  caprice  will  cease  to 
»•■%»., vtc  ''v.'i  ir»  own  ailov  :  but  shall  we  iv.iect  ■ 
•S»*  CM"  *'!  f'.K  workiran*h«p  and  »«^'.id  weight? 
;*SiV:v  i^  t'.."  ^'xe-n'.v.tnt  mint  of  wor^l*.  and  it  is 
»v»  ^liti.v.v.s-  »\Vmx  to  intent  a  lelicitous  or 
4*r.t>;   K\,:\*>k,>:;    uiuuilk^riicd  by   Mr.  Todd? 


\\'!u-n  a  11  111  I  -I  ;:vr. ■.'!-.,  in  !l.'.  l.i.  it  ■  ;  hi»  ;;''■.  •• 
or  hi>>  t(. '.  !.ii  •-,  ii,i->  tliii  -A  :i  '  ■.!'  .1  pi  <-....  .r  '.^  -  ,  .• 
proh.Mfly  torn  e\  til  nw-rc  pn-t.i'.ii'n  (-r  eu-.  TiTv  t:.ii; 
any  other  eM.iMislud  word,  otherwise  he  i^  uutin 
ii;norant  pretender  \ 

Julius  Ca"wir,  who,  unlike  other  trreit  captains 
i4  authority  in  word*  as  well  as  alK>ut  blows,  wnite 
a  lart;e  treatise  on  **  .\nalo>r> ,"  in  which  that  line 
genius  counselled  to  "  avoid  every  unusual  vort 
as  A  nK-k  !"*  Hie  cautious  Quiiililian,  as  mif^t 
Ik:  expected,  oppo<4:s  all  innovation  in  languiqe. 
*'  If  the  new  word  is  well  recei\ed,  small  i«  the 
glor^" ;  il  rejected,  it  raises  laughter."  t  'iTiis  odr 
marks  the  penury  of  his  feelin<{s  in  this  specics(rf 
adventure ;  The  RTe.\t  lei;i«4ator  of  words,  «ho 
lived  when  hi*  own  languai^  wx*  at  its  acme, 
seem?  luiilecid  ;d,  vet  pi>>*a<ied  for  tliis  liberty. 
"  Shall  that  which  t^e  Romans  allowed  to  Carciliw 
and  to  Plaiitus  be  refused  to  Vir;.:il  and  Variu*"'* 
The  answer  to  the  question  miijht  not  \>e  faiour- 
alile  to  the  inquirer.  While  a  language  i<  formlDj^ 
writers  are  applauded  for  extending  its  limiti; 
when  est.iblished,  for  restTictinj»  tHemsclvcs  to 
them.  But  this  is  to  imapne  that  a  perfect 
language  can  exist !  The  good  sense  and  olwcna- 
tion  of  Horace  perceived  tliat  there  may  l>e  ooc^- 
jiions  where  necessity  must  liccome  the  inoliicrof 
invented  words : 

Si  forte  necesse  e>t 

Indiciis  monstrare  recetitjbus  alxlita  a-rum. 

If  you  write  of  things  al>stnise  or  new. 
Some  of  your  own  inventing  may  Ik*  used, 
So  it  be  seldom  and  discreetly  done. 

Rum  ommon. 

But  Horace's  canon  for  deciding  on  the  Icgalitv  of 
the  new  invention,  or  the  standard  by  which  it  is 
to  1k"  tried,  will  not  sene  to  .assist  the  inventor  of 
w  ords : 

licuit,  vmpenjue  licebit, 

signatum  pnesente  nota  procudere  nummum.X 

an  undisputed  power 

Of  coining  money  from  the  rui;ge«i  ore. 
Nor  less  of  coining  words,  is  >till  contest, 
If  with  a  Ugjl  public  stamp  imprest. 

Fk.\nci>. 

This  pTjFiftis  nota,  or  public  stamp,  can  never  be 
alVixed  to  any  new  c  inage  of  worils ;  for  xn.inv 
receive«l  at  a  season  have  jH-'risheil  witli  it.  'V^ 
priviU-ge  of  stamping  words  is  reserx-ed  h»r  it* 
greatt,-st  enemy — ^Time  ilsell '  ami  the  invcntnrH 
a  new  word  must  never  tiatter  him>elf  th.it  he  hi» 
secured  the  public  ado«ition,  for  he  must  lie  in  bit 
grive  lH.fore  he  can  enter  the  dictit»nar\. 

rnt|uestionablv ,  neouxiV  opens  a  wide  dixrr  to 
innovation  :  scarcely  has  a  century  passed  since 
our  language  was  patche«l  up  with  f;allic  idioms 
as  in  tlie  preceding  centur>'  it  was  piebald  with 
Spani<li.  and  with  Italian,  and  even  with  Dutch- 
The  p<litical  intercour«e  of  islmder*  with  their 
nei^h'-curs  h.is  es-er  influenced  their  language. 
In  Ehz.ilK'th's  reign,  Italian  phrases- and  Nether- 

*  Aulus  Gellius.  lib.  i.  c.  lo. 

+  IiiHtit.  lib.  i.  c.  i. 

I  This  verse  was  comcted  bv  Bentley  fmcudne 
nwn'Kwn,  instead  of  /»n...'.v<r.T,-  tmiwi,  which  the 
«ritics  agree  is  one  of  his  happv  ionje«.ture9. 


fffSTOItV  OF  XEW  wnnDs. 


Ihc  Spanilh  frimed 
Clurln  II.  ihc  nili 
tniuUy  Frtnchiric<l, 

nf  i«r  l.nguige! 

ihle  cant  unm  u  " 
■m-cntnl  hr  the  HI 
amofw  hii  cmfnten 
nm  r«  the  «l«>n< 


of  the  wulih 


to  mc,  that  <hc  wike  th 
■tie  Biqilnll  ■!■«  0>u1  cvi 
frrition  which  m^l  hi 


Lit).  8br  ii  lunr  old  enough,  the  tM,  to  have 
liinl  lo  beir  the  vulgjriinn  of  her  ymlb  irispted 
in  dmnnu^iKim  cinln.  To  tugih,  now  w  fami- 
Hjr  ftnm  Ihe  ralrol  llpi,  in  ber  ynuHl  wai  ooly 
known  In  the  Kivana*  halL    An  eipRMkn  nry 

a  puddinK,  or  loinethUig  ntore  nice,  conven  Ihe 
ntlenaire  nniion  that  itaer  are  readv  to  nt  him 
up!  TatdJU  Sow  a  while  ucntded  terr;  hnl 
ton  hai  'recDvned  Ihe  wplemaqr.  We  want 
another  Swill  lo  giie  a  new  eiUKan  of  hli " 


laiedafcEiwedlKorcclhc  moat  leiine^iniellecti 
allempting  xioUMHtMI.  II  woold  be  ■  mbieel  01 
great  ciiriMiiy  to  trace  the  origin  of  naojr  ha|ip; 
tfapreMooi,  when,  and  by  wboin  created,  ^cera 
indented  sevei^ ;  to  Ihii  phikjuipher  we  owe  Ibc 
(erm  of  mard'  philmophv.  which  before  hn  tlnM 


than  by  the  ancicitt  langi 


Kicitt  laneiucn. 
:r  ol  On  bunian  1le«t,  h 

leran-  leiHEe  than  ibe  ]i& 
.    libmtaiffiic  ciealed  h 


are  admirable  i  (bal  Rreat  |[cnina  merileil  a  hidier 

a  pcinler  coidd  arfimL    libmtaiffne  ci 
hdd  elHCKiina,  many  of  whicfalun  t 


nol  Jeam  that  nf  wbicb  we  are  iuiiKininl.  Wilh  u> 
Ihe  wnrd  faciiHau  *a>  dnnibcd  by  Heylin,  in 
165^  as  ui  unuHUI  word  j  II  hat  been  appiof  ri- 
alEly  adopted  by  oor  bcH  vrilmi  allhnui;b  we 
Hill  want  nciiriuMy.  Cbarmn  Invented  rlranrrlf 
lUHueeeafolly,  but  which,  aayi  a  French  cntic, 
would  be  the  true  whstantive  of  the  word  ^fi^iw. 
Our  Locke  it  Ihc  tobiary  imtaiKe  produced  lor 


moraKly  and  tinirerul  benerulence, — ku^aiuKU 
and  f  Jarialr.  He  Invented  gltrnU  v  a  contempr 
uoua  diminutive  uffftlTf;  to  describe  that  vimlv 
ol  tome  egotiita,  ao  proud  of  the  >m4il  lalenf 


///-/'".':]  '•}■'  m:\v  w- '!:]>-. 


I 


V  •.* .  1.- 


I.■K^ 


t        lU-        1   I 


'I    » 


\\   cr 


jT'Tu'.'f- il  but  Jj  i\v.mj;iii.'  I 'c>t  jj  t.t!.j»is.i'.ct , 
c'i>t-i-«lirc  1.1  pr,itii]UL*  dc  \x  charitc  cnvcr*  Ic 
pnH:h.»in."  'rhi%  wrrd  \i.ui  v>  new,  that  in  the 
mitmcnt  of  its  crcitiuu  thit  f^^ml  man  cxpliincdits 
niLCSMty  an<l  origin.  Cttniiil.iining  th.il  "the 
u«inl  *  oharitx  *  \>  .thuvrd  by  oil  «>rtN  of  Climti.in^ 
in  the  pcrM.-».iiiirn  of  ihtir  enemies,  and  c\en 
heiriu-^  .iilinn  th.it  they  are  pncliMni*  Chri<ti;tn 
ch.tritv  in  per<cv utini;  other  hereti'  n,  1  ha\  c  MMii^ht 
for  a  tirm  ^\hit.h  mr^ht  i'onve\  to  ns.i  precividea 
of  doMix;  )(;(»i>d  to  our  neijihhonr*,  and  I  can  form 
none  more  prv^piT  to  m.ike  in>>clf  umler»to<Hl  than 
the  term  ol  btir/Miane,  p  mS-doint!.  Let  thnsc 
who  like,  u<«e  it ;  I  M^uiild  only  be  undenttcM'nl,  and 
it  i<  not  ei;iiiv<val.'*  The  happv  Wfnl  wa»  ^t  hrrt 
critui^sl.  I'lit  at  knc^th  e\erv  kind  heart  found  it 
re^jH-ndeJ  ti»  it*  own  fi-ehnc  Some  verses  from 
Vi  ;t.iire.  .iiUulin^  to  the  pi'htioal  reveries  of  the 
y?^iHl  .ib'v,  no:i.-e  tlie  oriiu-  il  upiniMtion  ;  yet  the 
new  vkiifd  jn>viLrcd  to  the  i:real  rule  of  Horace : 

Certiin  leci«lateur.  dont  \x  plume  fecnnde 
Fit  taut  de  \  iin*  pntjecLt  |Nn>r  Ic  bien  du  monde, 
Ft  qe.j  depui'*  t'xntc  an*  eerit  ptnir  de>  ingrats 
Vien*  df  creer  un  mot  tjui  mauijue  a  V.iu^ela*  : 
Ce  mi.^1  e>t  B:tN»  ii>.\\eF..  il  mc  pint,  il  raitwrnhle 
Si  Io  ea'ur  en  e>t  cru.  bien  des  \ertu*  en>cmhle. 
K'tit*  i:Tammairiens  i;rand*  preeepteun  dc  sot». 
Qui  peiKV  li  pm^c  el  me*urv/  le*  mot<, 
PiTxj'.'.e  c\prev»;v'n  v^•u^scmhIc  harardce. 
M.r.>  '.'ur.iv«;r> enticr  diit  en  cherir  Tidev  ' 

The  French  revolutionist"*,  in    their    raije   for 
inno\.(t.>  n,  al;v.o>t  barb.in!«ed  the  pure  French  ui  ^ 
the   \u^i.«:in  a^e  ci  tluir  literature,  a;(  they  did  \ 
min\   t..:nj.A  wt.uh  ne\er  iH'torc  <H:cnrred  ;  and  ] 
».'n«.^;:!i!e"«  e\per.».i'.ced   leelnic*  a*  traUMtc-ry  a»  , 
thev    vivTc   ,*:rin::i'.      Th^ir   nomenclature    w.«k ; 
coii.ni* ;  but  t!.e  revoluiu"'r..iryjari;i-.n  often  sh«m>  ' 
the  d.iii^er  and  the  lUvwiT)  of  neolit^sm"*.    The\  ' 
\\X\\\  j:)  ap5'ef.d:\  to  the   Acaileni)    Dictionarv.  I 
iNir  p. .on  i.w^  A\  h.u  !(4.r>ed  to  enriLh  thit  oiid 
i'.v.\V..r..'  ^f  y\\  ..  »'0   and  pi^.iti.*:  iV:..*".  i.".i.*'.j:e, 
.   ■•:..■,'.■.  .■■.^1  ..*■  r-  x.Mcud  Vith  th^ir  tft.r- 

.> -i •..'■.•,  a  \crb  ac:i\e,   U'ltt   it  r:..n*\ 

•  •'.-,;#.  A-.'A  tS'.e  other  \erb  actne  &'/'.v»:.*"..ff, " 
\» .  I!'.K  V  irl\,r\M;*  ter^n  ..,■—.  •  j.-jj:;  »:  is  >.ii.l  to 
!'.  oo  lvv".i  ll'.e  ip.^  ti'.f.  n  I'l  the  hornd  ca;<u«hin 
^*I'  il*.«i  ;  ar..l  I'ie  rev.^  -.rkaV.e  cxprvvion  oi  w:<ft 
r»'^..  K';.«n.:evl  e"v»  .v. >■*»-■  !v  in  it*  birth  t."»  the 
^•M'.-.ti*-  4>iu;v"nev»  ol  tlu-  VbN-  SuxC".  ihit  pi'.iri- 
«  d  a%tiM  «'i»».  m  *'iuu  v^  sjae*,  nc\i.r  tL-^uired 
p'o'.ui'VMVi  in  bi\  lu'w  p  •:  ' 

\  ii,\\  w.-rd,  t!K-  re^ii  i  *'f  r.uiv*!  consider i! ion 
¥»ith  lU  auiluM.oi  a  t*t:'".  w  !.i^!-,  !::.-u,h  n;-.siU'wn 
to  the  !  oi,.u.iv;e.  voine^*  a  n 'i.e».:!\e  .ivs.:*;I-..«4c 
ol  ids"  »  bv  A  ii'ituiMie  dtv»;:\.'.i.  n.  IS  a  pa.-.U" 
\o«ftl»iMi»»n  ot  <en"ii».  S\»i.  lixo*.;  a-m-i-'t  a 
vin;  \\  o  ol  painphUf".  ^^ho:l  le'V.r  i  \»nt»ri  were 
<v»'.\i!*iU  einp;»'wd  l»%  oiu"  p»'t\  t.»  draw  up 
lep'.'v-*  to  Ih*  .Mb.-,  ^n.tvd  »  ic'Tii  not  to  bo 
l.Mmd  in  out  di. '.i.Mii'u^.  t'ul  vkl;Ki:.>%  a  sini^li' 
»nokv'.  ,1' u  ui»M*.%  t!u"«o  li-.ri.!i'i"*;  he  c.i-.td 
ihein  a--...'  ■  v^•'  N^»'  l»-»*»-*  "'•«  dTij-ix-d  t!.t 
K»ii«niU-  ex,-iv*  'v*n  I'wn  an\  w  ir.t  v«l  »;»  li-^'.  I  i".; 
of  |S'%«|'ii.  o  m  oiii  K'M«  ■  .iii'lu'^.  1  I  V."  ».».i«.- 
^%1,d  \l  I'  ;ui*  ol  1  iiivl.'wiu  int'«v.li:.  sd  .in 
i^iul   \%.-id.'  whuh   ha^    bs-'a    *'•    -i'-c   w  »r.n:> 


1-;  ;■.■.  ■.  :'.\  r'lr,.''  '^  v, -.  ..  -.>  '-.i  r.r.;  .• 
..■.•..•..«■:  thr  i.i-.-.n  ;;  is  n.ip.  -ir-.-vii  ■■  .•  ;  r /. 
\erli--  i».r  in  the  nianjr.i^'s  tiii'n;,  t\\  it  u  i>  •■:;..  .-. 
ab>tr.Kt  ioni:epti(>n  wliirh  is  now  a  m.vt  ;  .:nJ  to 
libt'ralue  wa»  theiiretic.dly  intriKluced  l<'kire  tlw 
Itbiralt  arose.* 

It  is  rnrious  to  obscne  that  the  wftrd  UbirA^a 
an  adjeetite,  had  formcrb,  in  our  lan^iuo:,  x 
verj-  opi>ositc  mcanin}»  to  tfi.it  of  the  recent  noun. 
<  )ur  old  w  riters  use  it  a.s  sj  n«Mn  minis  w  ith  **  Liltr- 
tme  or  l.irenti»nis."  A.vhileac(;n  Nires  m  hh 
valuable  (ilo^vin,  has  supplied  a  tariet\  <if  in- 
stances. We  haie  "a  lihtial  \illain  !" 'and  "» 
nuM  prof.ine  and  litttul  counsellor '"  and  wc  find 
one  decltirint;  "lh.i\e  spnke /w /iV»j/i)."  Thb 
IS  unlu«.ky  for  tht  Libtrait .'  who  will  not 

(Ji\c  allowance  to  our  lihir^l  jest* 

I'pou  their  perMm> '.— Bl\i  mont  axi»  FLncHEH. 

Dr.  Priestley  emplineil  a  lonibie.  hut  nc»t  in 
elciiant,  tenn.  to   muk   the  Kcneril  infurnutic-n 
which  had  lH.yun  in  his  dav  ;  thit  he  frei|urDll.v 
calls  *'  the  tprtad  of  knowledi;e."  Burke  attempted 
to  brand  with    a    new   name   that  set  of  prt, 
petuUnt,  M)phi"^tical  scioliits   whose   philoMi{^y, 
the  French,  since  their  revolutionary  penihl,  hare 
distinguished  A%  phUusnph.um,  and  the  phiiiM.>3hm 
themselves  at  philnipk.itii.     He  would  ha\e  dwj- 
nated  them  as  lit^rutv^s,  but  few  exotic  uord.i«ill 
cir(.ulate ;  new  words  mu»t  Ik  the  Cf>inat;c  ol  i>ur 
own  language  to  blend  with  the  vern  tcular  idiom.  ( 
>!anv  new  words  arc  ^till  wanted.    We  hoe  »■ 
word  by  which  we  could  tr-in'^Ute  the  vinn  ui 
the    Latins,    the    .UUttattte  of   the    Itiliwin",  thi: 
aiembtqu^  of  the  French,  *>  an  epithet  to  dcM.r.lK; 
that    subliin.tted    int%:nuiiy   which   cxI.-hin:*  ti.e 
mind,  tia,  like  the  iuMon  of  the  diatmmii.  \\x 
intellect   it^rlf  diNippeani.     A   pMlo^iph.r,  in  *n 
extensive  liew  ol  a  subject  in  all  it.-*  beir.nc*,  m.") 
convey  to  us  the  n-suit  of  hii  la*t  conMder.ttion^ 
by  the  coinage  of  a  novel  and  >i;^ninc ant  expM- 
»i'on  as  tlu.s  ot  Profosor  Du-^dd  Stewart— />'ii.';. a/ 
fi'.';;i.i  r.mn.     Let  me  claim  the  hiMiour  o!  one  pu's 
ne«  l"-.ii">in.     I  ventured  to  introthicc  the  tenn  lA 
r.\lHtrt-u^^■p  to  d..Ncn!)e  our  t.,i:.i.^  s-'iu^n;  I  lij»c 
|i\cii  to  M:e  it  .idopted  by  Lord  B>n:n  hv\i\  by  .M'< 
S«"«uthev .    This  eneri;etic   exjrres^mu  miv  thct- 
lore  be  con-^idertrd  asauthenti.ated ;  and  p.itriotv.n 
may  stamp  it   with   it*  gl -O    and    its  dtJe^rrn. 
F.MiiEH-LWD  is  con-denial  with  the  lauiiui^  in 
which   wc    find   that    other    fine    exprL-**.«>n   •I 
MOiiiER-iuNtit  L.     Tb.e  p.itrii'iic  ne»ili'^:".in  c  n  :i- 
n.iied  with  me  in  Hi>l:anii,  when,  in  c..ri>  li!i.)i 
W.I.S  my   daiU    pur«iiit:   to  ii:rn  «\cr  the  g.i 'u'li* 
hi««ti'r\    of    \\.\   independeii.  e   iiii<:er   th^*  H'lc  '■' 
:  .i..i.*.uK..tKiu    Hij:uiu  —\l,M    hi^iorv   ol    >aiiJiK- 
L.x:.! 

If  wc  acknowledge  that  the  creation  of  «iinic 
ne»>'.Oi;ism*  may  oometime*  produt.e  the  heautitu., 
the  reiit.d  <if  the  dead  i»  the  more  authtnuc 
r-.iTuIe ;  li^r  a  new  wnni must  loni;rem tin  dfult- 
111',  Imt  an  ancient  word  happil>  recuve'ed  re*i' 
on  a   basil   nf  permanent   siren^th-  it  h.i»  Uitn 


*The  (ji' <r:erU  Review  recenrli  m.irkrd  the 
w<*r.l  .:*'tt^..ie  in  It  «ai  s  .is  a  *'r-.n;e  W'-r-l.  ii-- 
d"'.'.'Mcd'\  iii't  .iw  ire  Ol  its  un  ;,i,  ir  !■  in  btn; 
lire!\  n-'i-il  l-\  M'.  Dn  :.i!il  Mew.iri.  "  t-i  i.'^t  n.tt 
the  \uwt."'     Di.vten.  iihl  i»art,  p.  ijh. 


THE  PHILOSOPHT  OF  PROVERBS. 


lOTvlljr  «nd  ivthonty  1   . 


lied  to  rbe  KnmfaniipcT  I     It  dcKTlbci  its  peciUiaT 
iriLI  and  ihnit  ci>  >    flnvy  "  ^iUb^  the  liHtre'* 

IMC  pKibe  nprcBion  tn  the  fecJioR  Ihin  any 

The  liic  Dr.  BoiKher.  of  whsie  pni)«ici]  Tbe- 


it  family,  in  the  pnitpcctni  nf  that 


i(  ticnlogy— whirh 


Tough  the  (LuliKS  of  our  I 
r  dchciedcy  in  Ihmt  profaur 
rv  which  their  lahoun  r 


not  i«iTTn.«Uen   their  inlidll)*,  and  the 

y  and  dcUnhtruhiCB  which  they  itili  alkprd 

E  Ihem  look  as  Rrah  and  as  inf^nUjus  as  any 

ir  patent  intentinm. 

-,  tlie  title  of  the  pnsnit  article  the  n:^dcr  hu 

anticipated  the  nature  nf  Ibc  old  (umiture  to 

which  I  alinde.    I  prDptnc  to  aire  iv-|iat,  in  the 

Uyle  ufDiir  tinier  tnay  be  calh^Tthi;  phUnvHihy  nf 

riiuviHBH — a  tiipk  which  acema  virgin.    'Ilie  art 

ding  pnn'eria  has  mit,  ImkedT.dw.in  been 


dieted  their  nac,  they  appear  lu  hare  w'lihi 
- under  the  ban  of  bb  anathema,    Hli  V 

prnredni  and  would  umjuatlnnably  hate  un 


etue.  Few,  perbapa,  evn  now  auiptct,  that 
Ihefe  nefikctcd  fragmeDIa  of  wiidaiTi^  whkh  exnf 
-inwriK  all  national  alill  inlcT  many  intereatini; 
ihjecta  lor  the  Rudiei  nf  tbe  phUnnphet  nnd  the 


THS  PHILOSOPHY  O 
»  anli<|ue  furniture  wc  ■ 
|ualuledwltb,'(ndare)ur| 


of  EDAtenaK  and  thai,  whenerer  the  fubalil 
thing  in  that  tc«  nf  expericu:e,  which  aU 

await  fc»T  the  anIHa  of  out  noveltiet  to  relrognde 

RmlndiDC  them  how 'often  iheyrnive  the  for- 
pMIen  thin)|l  1.1  pail  timet  1     It  ii  well  known  that 

lonf  In  the  biiioiyef  the  human  mind  th 
■ndeedt  atortofancifinc  lumilure  which  Tc 
Doi  merely  from  their  uiiiiuin-,  hut  for  the 
condilinn  in  which  I  itijl  lind  them,  ar 


if  the 


iHif  Hi'fh 


n;memhenfd|  and  readil>  applied :  Thene  are 
hilnnphy  of  the  vulgar,  and  often  more 
.   than   that  of  their  nu>lm>  •-    Whneier 


Rthe  I 


hkrii  and  at  London,  and  aa  they  had  bctote  Ixren 

PHOviaH  exitted  heliHe  hoolb.    The  Kpanianli 
date  the  origin  of  their  n/rnMt  f  m  iurn  lai  vujai 

(idea,"  beilne  (he  eaincnce  of  any 'wiiiinn  in 
their  language,  from  the  cireumviuce  th.it  ih<'<e 

Tbe  moit  ancient  pnem  In  the  Edda,  ••'tlie  nib- 

rlkingly  ddcriplnre  of  tHe  amicnt 
n.      Undnuhtedly  piru'ertH   In   the 

ol  morilHi',  anf  even  of  tbe  tiaefol  am 
oral  tiaditiont  of  the  Jewi,  ihry  H 
from  age  to  af^  on  tbe  Upi  of  auccew 
tioDL  The  name  of  the  fim  lagr  whi 
the  faying  would  in  time  be  fnrgDIiL-i 
opinion,  the  metaphor,  or  (he  »t 


proterba,  atrlkingly  i 


iKK 


391                              TRE  PHfLOSOFFT  OF  PROVERBS.                                     | 

were  BTKtpB  which  no  mjn  could  conujdicl,  « 

IMnl.the  tclio  ol  Ihe  Deluge'     Bren  at  a  laKr 

penod.  the  uge  of  Cbenmea  priied  them  imong 

the  mosl  wlemn  mntenet;   and  Pluurch  hai 

The  privnbt  nf»  tilhtrbccHne  the  inhetiOnce 

uid   pTopert)"   h*s  not  yet   produced  ^reil  m- 

At  '!«'•!#«'  IT^od  of  .^^l"F^'^^ 

how  "  the  dranlt«rd  jnd  Ihe  giunon  come  lo 

pomly  ind  dnnniiiai  chXbei  i  dun  with  t^." 

AI  lucb  a  petiod  he  who  gii-e  coniuel  give 

of  onr  tchool-peu  ; 

wejilth. 
U  might  therefore  h»-e  heeo  decided.  A  ^.wi. 

It  B  a  rerw  found  in  a  fragment  ct  Uenandei, 

Hnkid:    •  poet  whoK  kuninp  w«  not  dnn-n 
from  honki.     11  couW  onlv  h»te  been  in  the 

.Kritulturil  Jt«e  Ibjl  thB  Tenerahle  bird  could 

M  Ihii  vcne  ii  a  pnnTrh,  and  the  apoMle,  and 

indeed  the  highert  authotit%-,  thai  of  Jeiua  him- 

self, conaecralea  the  uje  of  pnmrba   bj-  tbeir 

"  Hang  yinir  ploBgh-bani  o'er  Ihe  he»nh  !'• 

St.faulquolei  theOieeian  poet,  or  onlv  repeats 
some  pillar  adage.     Pro.iTb.  were  btigbl  ihafti 

in  the  Greek  and  Latin  quiven ;  and  when  Bentlev 
the  slurdy  oitic  vindicaKir  his  tailc,  by  ihowing 

cnhEnwue  a  by-  Ihe  delated  jeiloiuiei  of  the 
lilenti  mi  UK  Mtiiti  o(  a  mote  pollifaed  «p. 
■me  (amou.  proteiliiil  vctje  in  Htjiod'i  Worta 

into    hit    n-rilinra— that     Scalieer    and    Emmni 
loved  them,  and  had  fimned  colkciioDi,  drawn 

from  the  Mores  of  antiquiti. 

» lilenllv,  ■'  The  ponet  ii  honile  ro  the  potter  !" 

proverb!  haic  many  faces,  from  Iheit  mlKcUa- 

irAi»  win  nrrit. 

-  The  luU  i:  better  than  Ihe  whole  I" 

any  definition".     WTien  Johnxn  defined  a  protith 
lo  be  '■  a  ibort  icBlence  freipieoily  repeated  by 

Ihe  moit  curiout  ones,  which  hai-e  no«  always 

In  the  prngre»  of  time,  the  uock  d  popiilir 
prm-erbi  reniied  KCeniom   from   rhc  hinhest 

timilaled  among  the  populace,  not  even  belong 

oranluiuityfoinKillhcircoUeclkini.theylncreued 

to  them  I  nor  dcics  it  designate  Ihe  i-iul  nuiliticx 

in  '  weiuhl  uid  number."    Bnsmus  hu  poinled 

ha  admiiiblv  described  the  ingredient.  .  f  an  e.- 

orackii   rhe  illceorieal  qmbiib  ol  P>ihi<gan>; 

ciuisili   proMTb   lo  he   »n»,   lAiwIiifii,  aa4  ull. 

iucidenti;   mjTbolORj'  uid  >|iolc>Bue;   Ind  other 

tctan  all  qoanerj,  were  mcHed  down  into  ih» 

thought  or  a  metapboi,  wbeit  one  thing  is  «id 

iMhodycFiplnrutlcknawledee.  TiKHe"  otohdi 

wit;  and  that  quick  pungeiwy  Which  CKciies  sur- 

or TH  viiE,and  tlHiir  d>«  mii*ci,-  ailhn  are 

prise,  but  sirika  with  canvietHn  t  which  giiti  11 

the  name  of  the  great  Hebrew  monareb,  at  kn«h 

Prudentum,"  Dam  or  Jaielins '  Bmcthing  hurled 

ebe  can  we  inler  of  Ihe  enigmatic  wiNtom  of  the 

which  poBibly  Herbert  may  have  borrowed  from 

among  theit  Uudin,  thai  of  '■  HBJnuaniliag  a 

a  rcmatkabk  passage  in  Ptalg-s  dialogue  of  "  Pm- 
lae™.orlheSo;St>."                 ^ 

*r>i«r»  tni  tlir  inUrtrrullnr'    Thii  elevated 

notion  of '■  th^  dack  B,  ing.  o(  the  wiK  ■■  Kwrd. 

Ihe  SlaeiHIe  hu  thrown  out,  »ho  convdercd 

the  term  u  launiu :  thai  mode  of  speech  pe- 

molulmni  of  all  human  things,  aad  that  IhoK 

had  been  ured  fmm  the  eeneral  rain  by  Iheir 

emulous  to  excel  the  rest  of  the  Greela  in  tor- 

liliide  and  in  mililaiy  skill.    According  10  p1ato-s 

Ibow  marine  ihclli  fOuDd  on  the  topt  of  moun- 

notrtin,thi.  was  really  a  political  art.Sce,  with  a 

Ihe  ^i1ci<n|F  el  1  piHI 


THE  rmiOSOPHY  OF  phoverbs. 

of  papeT,and  iliick  up  in  1 


vnvey  ^ttM  multa,  «ifh^a  panlEnDny  of  worSl 
mxlinl  of  itiiK.  Thcr  hat«,  IhcKfbrc,  piV' 
erred  manjr  "  ■  »h(wl  ii:ntence,  sfOT  repealed  bj- 

II  ii  eiident,  bnweter.  thit  the  euJieit  wrttipn 


red  the  phikwiiihical  can  of  hli  flenlui* 
It  hited  hh  alnuiucki  uith  prin^eiU,  by 

lemlinK  an  anOion.  "Thnc  pnneri»,~  he 
llina,  "which  conlidaedtht  wHilnni  of  many 
jci  and  nalions  wben  Iheir  fcaitcled  couiueb 
ere  bitMifht  tocher,  made  a  great  imprfinnn, 
liei'  were  leprinted  kn  Bnlain.in  a  lar^  fheet 

•  Tiylort  Tramlation  of  Plato'j  Worts,  rrt.  r. 


mcRly  hr  ImltalinE  Ihe  seme  eutclia,  and 

of  «I^Ve  on  ItTlh^  had  rt«m  pa.nted  In  their 

Ihal  Ihev  »m  grailv  deceived  i  and  Ihuj  cu- 

on  Ihe  hladei  of  their  knito,  Ihe  borden  of  Ihcir 

riotoly  <leaiTibe9  Ihe  KTt  of  wigdom  Iba  snguJar 

penpli^t«li«l.                                            "^ 

"If  any  one   wi>h«  to  «x.>erae   with   Ihe 

lingi."    The  usurer.  In  Rubcrt  Uieene->  "  Gnafi- 

hnd  him,  fof  Ihe  moB  part,  appaiemly  dapicable 

into  the  circle  or  his  rin|(,havinii  learnt  uflicienl 

KHi,  like  a  itil/al  Janitor,  niU  htrka  kkUw 

•ibi  cuia-"    The  biBband  was  reminded  of  hi. 

lodly  authority  when  he  only  looked  inio  his 

Irenchcr,  one  of  in  learned   aphorisms  hatine 

he  who  conveiH  with  Mm  will  «peat  to  be  in 
BO  impect  anperior  to  a  boj  1    Thai  It  Lmtilu, 

•nmc  of  the  pte«it  age,  and  wai  known  to  thi 

The  Rnglbh  pKnerbs  of  the  popniace,  mmt  of 

™cien^^  Ihej  herni:  penoaded  Iha.  ihe  .billly 

which  arestiU  in  cireulalion.  were  fillet  led  by  nUI 

JuHM  H [TwuuD*  They  an:  arn<ni;cd  by  Truta 
for "  Ibe  parkruT— Ibe  euefl-s  chamber— Ale  hall— 

111  a   van   peilcclly  leamed.      The   leii^n   uki 
vi-K  cmulitnn,  loien,  and  dlicrpio  of  Ihe  la- 

laMc-lnmu,"  &c.    Not  a  small  portinn  of  our 

of  Ihi.  kimli    .i»..*«^(«rr.r»™  uirrrol  ^y  raif. 

ancient  pro>erhs  were  adapted  10  mial  Hie.  when 

workiof  Ood,an<lleaaamnnRlhwof  men.    At 

■emMirK  Ifseiher,  conaecmed  id  Apcdlo  ihe  hral 
fnauorihrnwiKlomi  wHtlng  in  Ihe  temple  of 

ihii  lime,  one  of  onr  old  lUleHnen,  in  commeiid- 

celebrated  hy  all  nun,  vii.  *»«..  IhyuUf  and 

milimi  It  niicA.'     But  on  whal  account  do  1 

ibemieh'Ea,  ai  well  as  to  orhers  t  I  cire  a  llterarr 
cutiojiiyofihiskind.    A  member  oT  the  houieof 

bnnic  JitjrM."* 

enlirelv  compoKd  of  Ihe  moat  homely  pmierba. 

The  suMccI  was  a  bill  against  double^pai  menis  uf 

habit  of  swelling  out  their  book-debts  w  ith  tho« 

niiing"  are  the  two  itnoahle  pnneita.  l/t$a 

who  look  ctedil.  parlieubrlv  ro  Iheir  vouniier 
ciMomen.    One  of  the  mcmhera  who  began  to 

(rV.™.'and«.p.A*..im».' 

11  o^tor  was  followed  bi 


Bomelhing,  and  that  withnul 
'ing.  I  Ihiiik  this  law  b  a  i:i»d 
"'""  makes  long  friendk     ■- '— 


Another  Instance  of  the  use  nf 

IMIbelrrAibled 

irmerbomonc 
,4  kil.-r.rf  Sir 

ber  in  EOcele  oC  al!  the  rmierlm  In  Ihe  EuuliUi 

THE  PHILOSOPHY  OF  PROVERBS. 


I  rtJlonlheimjK.cl 


piTiviTh,  fjni  Buiifi  Ji  Frji  M    Rtj  iliata   Hi 

k>n|t*  fnac,  wiU  vend  m  father    tony  ycai 

Tliii  wH  <he  en  of  pnnrtrtu  vlth  u ;  tor  liu! 
thty  «m  i^tn  b)'  aU  niikt  of  locKty.    The  fre 

dad  u  the  ■buie  of  *  th-""  ni^M  ■  !»»  «innuri» 

huRlour."  inifailihed  a 

He  pxtciuh  lo  cnnlndiet  ifie  am  (Hpulir  oiw 
hut  be  uaued  the  geniiu  lo  Htike  u  irauai 

Prrnvrbi  were  hng  the  fiiTouriln  oF  anr  neigl 
hnun :  in  the  fpknJid  «nd  rerined  rnurl  of  Loti 


Hr 

■niiii.kr.  th 

ttllil 

^rj-i 

lullctifornul  Ih 

niiite  FrtDi'h:  «c  hjtc  a  "balk-t  dc^  priAerhCA 
Kmc  ch^ni^,  Add  wbfiled  iivlf  la  tlv  «uh>e<:t 


impuwl  of  wiraerinx  scarj 


M  MDother  iMtTpt  the  |hui  eib  «a 

"  OpponuDlt)-  oiakei  the  thief. 


"  Whdl  come^  hy  the  pipe  goes  by  the  tabor." 
A  lOMedi^alp  lied  officer  »b  performed  bj' h  Sicu 
■■An^limi  Ihe  fifr  hy  St.  AlBnan,  tnd  the  Utt 
hrWSmirtcCoirtei    tn  Ihiimannct  neri  pn 


eniilled  pmtilvi,  on  a  more  lefined  plin.  Their 
inicniHio  11  ID  recent,  thai  Ibe  term  i>  not  in  ihnr 
EnrdldicliniljryofTrevoiiii.    TItoc  ftttrHl  »re 

who  poBae^ed  n  peculiar  reiq  of  buimyr,  hut 
who  deiigmnl  ihcm  onJy  for  private  ihnirical«. 
BachfrniiftluniighedaiuhiKt  for  a  fcw  tcenei, 
and  created  a  iiliialkin  puiirerfnllr  cnmic :  it  ii  a 
dr-imilic  amuscmeat  vmch  doei  not  appear  tn 

CJIbjnne  of  Kuuu  delijihled  lo  compoie  tor  her 


■\uuriic»iv<iuvfa  falher 

■liimatic  pruieriH.  ftici  m^v  he  pciniied  m 
liuiiyof  Ihe  Biitluel  ol  uur  old  Bi^lily,  shit'h 
._ —  .-  *- — e  ufifthiJIcil  in  mime  huhituud  pimvib 
der  cii'  the  family.  In  .1^  nhrn  pio- 
moM  prciaLenti  surh  pithy  lenlencn 

h]  on  10  dvel^uni  ei-cn  in  its  itrejitT 
exiueocie*-  Onlor^  by  wme  Inrky  proverb, 
vltbont  wcar>ing  their  additorst  ii^Add  bring  cm- 
■'"'■ —  ■ lo  their  bnsoimi  and  greiil  cha- 

hinuelf  up  to  Ihe  itudy  of  mwic, 
J  where."     The  emperor  an.- 


iwcied  in  ire  niJHI  of 

eicry  child  duukl  he  ti 

,  after  aiu[ 

,=  or  the  ! 


••th  Ihnt  pi 


1  pmi'crhj,  nihlne  hirnself  with 
.e,  tie  cnnmitieil  hinmlf  lo  Fonun 


THE  PHILOSOPHY  OF  PROVERBS.                             jqs  | 

ing  tiKin  to  look  on  hi>  •line,  which  uppciFcd  tti 
hewrll  made,  he  ohscntd,  "(Jont  of  you  know 

p.-erb„  dehgh^„«  to  .tartlea  c..ll«|o,  by  hi. 

"  nU  Hying  and  true."    Some  nf  thes  ihvming 

verhla)  phiisc,  or  by  ia  aptixB  it  hu  buomc  one 

proi'erbt  arc,  hnwner,  Ictk  and  elegant ;   wc 

aTihemortpoiwlar. 

There  »re,  inileeil,  ptorertw  coeuMcted  nhh  the 

chiTulen  oi  eminent  men  i  tbey  were  either  Ibeic 
favonrlM  coo,  or  fax-e  otigiuud  with  thenwhn  - 

The  Italian-   ^"^  •="«  "^■■ 

»ch  xoutclkm  wniUI  Ann  u  hMonolc>>tia>lty. 

To  the  celehnled  tuxui  m  Ibe  Picnch  indcblnl 
for  a  miliury  prorcrb,  which  nine  of  them  Kil) 

l,'»O^J,..C.ri.r.(a^u. 

repent.    A  fn  d  fanultl  fagtu  It  (.rjirin  U 

Ihe  piDhn  D(  M  oiillunllfe,  wMch  comuinea.  in 

the  pomp  nd  wMe  Which  in  nM»>iy  (or  it. 

n,Mni™.nce.  the  Jendn  p.y  it  receiijn,  ind  eien 

"  To  give  il  honour,  to  ask  i.  grier." 

whit  iu  npucity  lometlinei  Ki|niT».    The  fa> 

"  Haiten  .lowly  •■•    He  wohcd  it  to  be  imcfihed 

whenver  it  could    meet   onr  cya;  on  juiblic 

1.4yv«ij'hle.'' 

enljirgeiouruockofiuboiulptotcrta.   SirAmiis 

Pawlti,  whfii  he  perceived  loo  miich  hurty  in  mny 

The  compMCTj  of  Ihete  ihort  proverb,  were  a 

bu,im™,  wo  .ccu«omcd  to  uy.  "SUV  .  while. 
ID  mike  in  cad  the  KooeT."    Olivir  Cninvcli'i 

nnmerou.  race  of  poeta.  who,  probably,  among 

the  dream,  of  their  immortalHy  i.e.-er  niipeclv.1 

cDiiK,  but  d«cripliie  Bniterb,  cnnveu  Ihc  con- 

tempt he  fril  for  Kimc  ol  hi<  mun  iml  ironhUj- 

ItiUlan.  hire  ■  provcib,  which  hu  been  ocroion- 

11)  tnplied  to  certvo  poUlid  penonign  ^ 

EflUfMriltcluOiffiiilri 

S  >ar>  (VlK.  clu  Hit  t»T>a  .' 

praclical  wlfdom,  hy  proeninK  their   n.itioBil 
proveilM.  a<  nme  of  IhOK  rlutel  ilndenli  who  hul 

"HeitwhittOndpkimi 
He  .fa.1l  be  whil  Cod  wiU.  •" 

Bithi.  wu  >  ptmnh,  il  h«lKr.Td  u  an  embral- 

Biten  birth  lo  ereiTHKCiei  and  in™  »cn.-wiu-. 

or  mcrri',  or  ulirieal,  and  mnnmerl  iir  r.-ji.i,i'd  in 

proreibh    Kalion.  faehl  an  uninn.il  inlerfuirc 

linrd  long  ennugh  lo  irpcnt  the  wiW   roininlic 

for  we  diacaver  among  tboic  which  appear  «i  icilv 

Ulour'own  familiar  one.  •everal'may'lic'lnckl.'ii 

entcRd  into  the  proverb)  of  hH  county  t   Tht 

amonx  Ihe  ™w.of  the  L.itin,  and  Ihe  <;.x-el.. 

bonier  pniveifa  of  the  DnugLuo,  "  R  were  belter 
to  hear  Ihe  lark  Aa^  than  Hie  tnouie  ch«p,"  wai 

Hinn  of  Ihe  GaU ;"  Uke  detayed  familin  which 

adopted  by  eve^  bonkr  thief,  lo  eipr«.  *•  Sir 
Waiter  Scolt  ohKTre^what  the  neat  Brace  had 
pf^nted  onl,  that  Ihe  wood)  iiul  hilli  of  Ibeit 

remain  Id  obKurlly,  they  may  bout  of  a  high 

lillF-dced..    The  vulgar  proverb,  "To  cany  ccm1« 
lo  NewciMIe,"  local  and  idiomatic  ai  it  appiait. 

CDuntiv  were  their  ufeM  bnlw.rkg,  iutead  of  (be 

■Kighboun  la  the  art.  or  auanltinE  or  defendiiiK. 

•elvn;  it  may  be  found  amoDg  Ihe  Persian.:  in 

the  "  Biutan"  of  Sadi  we  have  Jn/iri  pifir  in 

pmi-etbli  they  hare  often  nsulteil  (mm  the  q>on- 

taneou  emotumi  or  the  profound  refleciion.  of 

among  the  Hehrew^  "To  carry  oil  lo  a  cil.t  nl 

oUveaT-  a  nmilar  proverb  occur,  in  (iieek  ,  and 

npreakn  wai  caujht  h)  a  hilhful  ear,  never  ta 

penihl 

The  poeta  haie  b«n  i-ety ;.  uy  wiih  pniverha  lo 
all  the  biiEu^ei  of  Europe :  jsmt  appear  to  ban 

ereu  id  more  reftoed  timea,  miny  of  the  painted 

rerK*  of  Boileau  and   Pope  have  become  pro- 
rerMal.    Many  tiirial  and  laconic  proidh.  bear 

identity  of  human  natu'n :  umilar  .iinalion.  and 

HiaU*I  ol^ecli  have  un<iueMi»njhly  made  men 

Ibe  Jingle  oCaflitemtion  or  rh>n«.  which  aiMed 

their  circulalioo,  aad  were  pratiahly  Hrnck  off  ex. 

nation,  are  pamllcl.  .il  each  oilier  •     Urnix  all  p.>- 

lemparci  a  manner  whldi  i*M  prattiwd,  who 

THK  PHILOSOPirr  0F-PR0TEBB8. 


heiJ  much  mlcrcoune  losilhcr.    We  haii  i  ci 
pioiu  ctiUection  of  Sconikh  pmveit*  by  Kelly,  bi 


e   not  only   EpgliBh*  I 


mduccil  ID  The  rnlargcd  knnwlcdKC  of  the  Eunltcil- 
■tDdcnt,  who  formcrlT  found  hu  mcHt  exlendctl 
RKiTchn  limitcil  bj-  Hrfknislit  lore. 

lUjice  that  the  pmiertu  of  the  Eurupcin  luiiuiM 

volnmn,    Biu^wb  it  luiuUv  conuikred  »  Ihe 

be™  |irt«ded  hy  PoljUore  Vcreil,  who  iMderly 

panin^  by  bit  o^kctiim  ttilhout  ci-eh  a  poor 

teMliiiR  the  wav  on  ntoR  to^ci  than  the  prcKnI. 
Bnttniu,  w<th  hb  unul  plesianin',  pmvakinBly 
excuse!  bimvlf,  by  ackaowkdpnic  that  be  had 
fMgullen  hb  rdeiid'i  hook  t  Few  svmpilhite  with 
the  nuiitelt  of  author)  i  and  tince  Entmiit  bn 

the  oHiniul  "  Adagia"  i9  left  only  lo  be  com- 
\  literary  hjiun?'  u  one  of  ifi  cnri- 


Ikra  of  about  tine  Aooiand  pmverbt.  Eiaduilly 
ntliered  from  a  conttani  Madr  of  the  ancleplt. 

a  IdUd,  iielighted  himtelf  and  ill  Buiope  by  the 


drikai-v, 
ndgbtlia 
flnSp 


TaluaMe  campilalion.  . 
the  bcM  practical  illutt 


It  day,  ^''niZ«i 


'a  an  EneUdi 
publUhed-l 


Ihe  mcMt  cnriom  knowledge.  Tbe  numnen 
people  are  painted  after  liCe  in  their  doa 
prtnTiht;  and  it  would  not  be  advancing  «» 
much  ID  asKR.Ihalthegeniiuaf  Ibe  age  misht 
iie  often  delected  in  iti  preralent  onea.  like 
learned  ^Idea  telb  w,  that  the  pioreiba  of  KrcnT 
natiou  were  much  studied  I^Blibop  Aadrewa; 
Ibe  reaHin  aniraied  was,  hecauie  "  by  than  be 

be,  "iiabiaie  thing.  aiwT  count  him  wile -■- 

knowt  the  mind)  anS  Ibe  ioiidei  of  men,  wfa 

donebyknowincwhal  it  habitual  to  them."  Lord 
Bacon  condenttd  a  wide  circuit  of  phikHphical 
tfaoughl,  when  he  obten-ed  that   "  tbc  getaina, 

Trm  eibi  peeuliaili-  national,  while  they  conrey 

si':" '.'•  u"ri"  °L;5_™L5A!?5!r; 


ry  iubitt  ol  the  pi-ople  might  b 


Cianhn 

iO  dl  RictMtlone 

.CSSiS 

' '"  '^^ertlt  Mono- 

S£ 

i-dSi-rsr^ 

t^J^^- 

.".rxi 

1"?' 

ubiicaiion,  I  d 

be  Ibe  lame 

lakei  that  oppoitunily  of  enplaining  them  by  the 

are  not  alwa>i  to  be  depended  on.  A  worknf 
bigb  merit  on  French  proverbs  b  the  unliniihed 
one  of  the  Abbe  Tuet,  Kuible  and  learned.    A 

French  tramlation,  wai  printed  ai  Copenhagen,' is 

infcTior  parzmiaetajpfaert.     The  graie  and  judi- 


we  rarely  rtral  the  delicacy,  the  trii,  and  tbc 
and  t1>e  pugnancy  of  aooie  of  the  French  prorerba- 


THE  PHILOSOPIir  OF  PROVERBS. 


hu  pnaerved  i  curloua  cuitom  oi  UKtant  cox- 
cnmbry,  whkb  orijtinilly  tame  (rom  thctinckt. 

the]-  applied  the  pnnnb  of  VnUt  Sgilalt  ualpil 
lafui.  Scrucfalng  ihe  hud  with  a  liiiEle  Knnr 
wa\  it  KcmSi  done  by  the  cridcjilly  nLce  joiitru 

econam)''nC their  b»r.  TheAnb,whaK  UHctcled 

t-i>ti"Vincgflr^reni»  better  chin  hone}' baiight/' 

|kiTcncd  in  the  6aa1  \i  dncribed  u  nttt — "  Kov 
lATHehiiMawaTmilk!"  aM  proirerbbl  eipreuoD 
with  Ihe  Arab,  to  diMlBiulih  the  most  co|naui 
clai|iieiice.  To  expna  a  italc  of  pcrleet  npotc, 
the  Ariibian  proverb  ik, "  I  throwthe  rein  over  mv 

of  ihi  cameli,  which  arc  thruwii  om  their  hwti 
wbcn  ItKjr  are  feol  to  pasture.    We  dlmiver  the 

cicanlf  Briion  b  Kenin  the  hi|(i.- the  heme  InAi 
not  on  the  Mgr  bnt  the  com  i  the  hid  hwiluDdS 
btJgi  a  full  of  gip>-"  The  ttntc  of  an  wriculiunl 


pc(^  uppean  in  Htch  p] 


Iheir 


I  citillHiiDn :  Ihe 
de  ID  nognlricenE 

"  A  g^ive  and  miintie  ontrioe  i^  ib  it  were,  (be 
fdta«  of  the  goul."  Ihcir  umianoF  isiremRicnt 
i*  i|uilif  arcbileclnial.    Thnr  myt  "A  wrereini 

«tcpf  ihal  tcfed  to  it  i  die  peopie  to  tiie  gmuihl  on 

a  people  who  had  i  proireTh,  thjit  "  He  who  ^vn 

We  ihonld  iiutantly  de(i£  on  the  mean  and 
■en  ile  ifririt  of  Ihoie  who  could  npeal  ii ;  and 
f  nch  ve  find  In  have  been  thai  of  Ilic  BenRalcx^ 
la  whom  (be  degnding  proverb  belongs  derived 

'ir  Mov^  nilen>  wbo  answered  the  cliimt  of 
-ir  crediton  bj'  «  vigorous  application  of  tiic 
wnip!  Id  umeof  the  Hebmr  proverlH  we  are 
ftmcic  by  the  frequent  atliHiom  of  that  fn^liee 
people  ID  tibeir  own  hiilocy.  The  cruel  opprvvna 
exerciKd  liy  the  nding  power,  and  the  contidence 
in  Ihcir  hope  oF  change  in  the  day  of  Iclriliulian, 

the  tale  of  bliclui  ■>  doubled,  Mdk>  Comal"  The 
food  idolatry  of  their  devotion  to  their  ceiemonijl 
law,  and  to  everything  connected  with  Iheir  sub- 
lime Theacrfec)^  in  llicir  magnilicent  Temple,  is 


truth  and  cioduur  are  admiratde :  "  Kichei  in  the 


ninded  and  indepcn-  | 

;oei  aa  Car  as  he  u  able,  not  as  far  af  he  dedre^. 
^nius  iiecame  more  subdued,  and  every  Spji 


quitilion,  huA  i"    Tlie  ([ravity  and  taciturnity  of 
pmrcrb.    Their  popular  but  nipprcised  feellnip  on 

Urva  Claiiu.lleva  rtjwal    "UHlat  Cllrist  take 

number  of  tnrcatlc  provetba  on  the  Huicioui 
gripe  of  the  "  abad  arnfumtu,"  the  araiiciaui  p 


in  the  I 


domcfflic  decency,  and  epicurean  comliirt,  appears 
in  tite  3pini&h  proverts  La  jmitjcr  v  U  mUa  a  Id 
BUM  Jf  )afc.'tfa;"Theuilcand  tSeJaucehrilic 

The  Italian  pivnTlii  hate  lalien  a  linge  from 
their  deep  and  politic  B^nius,  and  Ihcir  wivLirm 
Mem>  wholly  coBccmraled  In  their  pcmmal  inte- 
reita.    I  Ihink  erety  tcnlh  prorrrt).  in  an  llaliin 

a  biiolE  of  the  woikl  tor  woildlingi  I  Their  poiiticj] 


"  who  dantfln  after  Ihe  crejt  b  the  l»t  at  (able, 
and  Ihe  hm  at  hb>wi.~    Chi  uta  la  tiluhm,  Btn  la 

"Wino  ler^'n  al  coon  din  on  straw-"  Warv 
cunnini;  in  domestic  iiii:  \%  perpetu-dly  imprev'rd. 
An  llalian  prm-erb,  which  i»  immonaiivd  in  our 
language,  for  it  enters  Into  the  hL--tory  of  Mihon. 

the  vouDg  poetic  traveller  to  have — It  i-in  uiBitVt 

E-  an  fcwMtAt;  "Hakejounelf  ail  iinn,-.    flud 
Hid  will  devour  yini."    Thi-re  are  ««ne  which 


tine  eouolry  devastalcd  by  petty  waif, 
heroic.    II  uUalt  ptr /or  mjli  i  im  pafal 


J9«                              THE  {•HlLOSnpirt  OF  PROVERB.^. 

and  «'itcr,  VKHi  inike  roam  (or  ttaenucli-s."    But 

Arahi.n  proieib,  "The  barhet  leans  hii  art  on 

in  iimelicJ  people,  emlotwl  will,  mil  icr^WUI)-.   Ihi  orphin'i  f.cej"  Ihe  Chinse, 'Mn  >  lieM  of 

nH.'lanido  nol  pull  up  mur  ifaoe ;  underaplDm- 

f.miiful.     Thir  uint  the  «tlrltv  of  ttieiubfaip, 
CM  h^  r.m^  nlf.!,,,  ha  h  4.r.»  i  .fianchi: 
"Wlin  fwK  InvE  in  the  tmiU,  (cell  a  iput  in  hi> 

■ree  do  mt  adjiM  your  cap  1  "-to  impm  caiilioD 

in  oor  conduct  nndn  circnintfanrn  of  Aunpicinn  i 
-and  the  Hebrew  one,  ■■  He  Ihal  halh  h-Totw  of 

(«-ij  i<m  <,ifhJI  jv^iih:  '■Fricnili  lie  Ihrir 

bl<  lamilv  hanced  may  not  ny  lo  hU  iKighbour. 

is"S'i.^:  SsSK  rssn^s 

the  Dnircn.^  lover  hy  u  degint  finvab-^fptran 

ilMii.  aJ  ^'BK-.-  "To'Weverjdoot  wttb 
Mav  i"  Dluding  lo  tlw  bouih  which  in  the  niuhB 
of  hay  Ihe  cm^Ry-petvIe  ub  accimomed  lo  p&nt 
befm  Ike  door  t/tbdr  mbsre".  II  .e  mm  <o  the 

of  thai  or  his  c»untr>i  that  mantle  ol  gnxin. 

wilh  which  be  hu  imbued  bin  Uilc  and  manner 

French,  we  diKorer  that  Ihe  mtlilary  eeniu  of 

France  iliclitcd  the  pioreih,  M-oBi  m  mu&t  H  fail 

be  traced  to  the  pnnerbial  ciudiHon  of  his  natfam. 

"  To  Meal  a  iheep,  and  Rive  away  dte  trolten  (or. 

mailr  and.  Mrt.pJfiJajr"' »«/«•**»''■»"■» 

God^aaker- nCenanlicnalnrel  Toooewhoii 

.b  lano:   "The  lonpK  urSka  dcvpe/lhui  Ihe 

lanre ;"  and  Ci  f Hi  inM  'u  uxilur  in  tiubtm. 

■  (JjIhw:  -  What  ciiniin  hy  the  tahor  goei  Kick 

AiJrif  «/ W  « («»r  "  Ha«  Ihou  a  mind  lo  qSSil 
with  thy  wite.  hid  i1erhri.4w.1tc1  to  Ibeek  Ibe 

-•itb  the  pipe."    fmt  faitiai  f^ai  Ji  s-im 

ha  liecoi^  pnenhiil,  n)4tv«'«n  RJinbuigta 

suuhioe ! "-a .™-  fair  qtianel  may  be  picked  up 

ahont  Itae  note,  in  the  (ka>e4  wwert    «o  IhS 

judKH  In  (lallicia,  who,  like  our  former  jnnico  of 

uwl  to  (hara.-nriie  the  lllilnal  and  Kllith  policy 

1  .od,  wlKn  i>  l««m  to  de«eiienle  binn  IM  innral 
p.iiri.ni.ni.     The   ndenl,   perhaps  Ihe  eelintl 

aiK.tr.r.ilriirEirf-dSiisJ 

proverh, "  BetliTlietbe  head  of  >  dog  tlun  ilie  laii 

»P™qlofpciultiv-.UMtiilyliEldb>lheleB^    To 

of  a  lion ;"  i.r.  IbeArit  of  the yeoounry  ruber  Ibin 
hsve  divovmdnor  own  ancient  tklll  Id  aiebery 

meam.  Lvqiu  atrllu  ttndn.j tatfai at  iumi,. 

no  gnath  how  came  Ihcy^' them  >-    Kltlxan 

Mf^rdKei,  »  Wine  wean  no  hRahei-.'-  I«  men 

conhl  h«-e  h*l  ntcfc  a  prm-erh  i^ "  1  wlU  ellbet 
n>Aea>haflDtaholtof  ilfiisniriine.wi  Ihe 

hi  ain:  eipme  Iheir  mnt  leiret  IhonghD.  fimt 
.(••.■•rf..-Wneoroneear»  i.eD«r»^nei  lor 
'1  had,diikii»  our  head*,  hnth  ourean  are  <i<>hle| 
but  at  B«d.  (St  Spaniard  by  a  natural  geaiculalioii 

i«  or  olher  of  the  tiling  fpoken  of  =  the  bolt  wa. 

lowering  one  lide,  ahowj  a  tingle  ear. 

of  the  hHiK-ho»  wd;  called  ■  ihift.  The*  innancn 

rrovethi  alKwnding  in  uinMlc  humour,  and 

Ibund  amoni  ei-m  ^le,  an  thOK  which  are 
potnled  at  rival  counlnn.     The;-  expoie  Hime 

vumrtanci.  and  (nliai»  of  a  people  ate  dixovered 

in  their  pnpulat  notloni,  m  ttamped  dd  theii 

pntalent  folly,  or  alhide  to  Mnne  di^-nce  which 

>he  nailvei  haie  incutred.     In  France,  the  Bnr- 

■""'""ahrevidinl  Ihal  the  peculiar,  and  olltn 

iOiiHliau  have  a  proi-eih  Minx  t-aal  (wa  rtpa,  «■< 

idimialic,  hamour  of  a  people  ii  heit  preserved  in 

dctirk-nt  in  ddicac)',  in  the  SL-nliilh  proierhii 

Kbahby^dreseni  thevmlfomn^lyiaid  to  have 

Kelly,  who  b«  collected  diree  Ihont.nd.  lnforin> 

"bowel,  of  «lk  and  vehret  J- Ihat^all  Iheir  •!» 
and  velvet  goeilbT  their  howehl    Ttrna  picardv  ii 

«M,m;  h«  lh.I  few  anwnK  Ihe  Relter  urt  will 

famou.  for  "hot  beadai"   and  the  Norman  lot 

mill II nm dnill. " Mi h) Ibc  and  hii unaaiiiHr 
m  Italy  the  numero«  rinl  c»ka  pelt  one  liioSeT 

cnni-eiw  anr  nHbideralile  iVme,  but  will  conliim 

evetv  awniKn  and  ol,,-na.i,.n  wilh  ■  Kcnithh 

I'lifr  Um, "  He  who  dcab  wilh  ■  Tnvan  miM  not 

unneili.  TheacBlnliveSi'otL-hiifnurowntinin 
haiepnil>d>Iydn;enTilC'l  iu  pnidimial  lore,  and 

liirc  hb  em  abut."    jl  rmlla  thi  x-i  aaur,  mal 

:■»  ji  raict,  ••  Whom  Venice  breedj,  ibe  pnoclv 

Thn  mit  tepl)  iiy  a  Wolcb  prmerh  nn  pnnerh., 

■«d..'--Among  ourKbe.,  hardit  ha.  a  counry 

n.  .1  ■■  Fooh  mjfce  Hearts  and  wj<e  men  eat  xirm  ," 

evaped  from  lome  popiOar  quipi  even  neighlxmt- 

ing  lDWn<  inve  thdr  uicauns  nioally  pickled  is 

^unlucky  *J-^-2|%'C^Ste'r  «Tjf 

iTrtn.  ;ind  (ooli  lepcat  Ihetn !" 

.nle  hb  neighbour :  naHom  proverb  each  other ; 

National  bomonr,  (re.)»eolly  local  and  i.lioniJ- 
■i.il,  d.'pend.  on  Ihe  ail'ilivi^d  hahlu  of  ■nankind. 

.nunlin  Hont  connlln  1   ohieiuT  towni  iharpea 

•nopiNMIe  to  each  other,  bui  Iheie  is  a  n.tuial 
.■.™,  which  Ihe  populace,  alwan  tme  to  nalure. 
pre^ne,  eveu  «nong  the  graved  people.     The 

I 


Tin:  ]'IfII.''>'<>}'!lY  "I-   I'l:->\  ri:j:^ 


.> )  f 


tii.\  irt.jui  nli>    liriHltKini;  >tr.inj;c   or   whiuiMi.il 
comhiiiitKinA;  a  p*;«»i>lc,  Ironi  ;i  vtrj  n.i(ur:«l  c>i- 
cuTntUiicc,  liav«  (iriun  ihcir  pro\crl»  fiom  local 
objects,  or  fmin  allusions  to  iKCuli-trciiMoms.  'Hie  . 
iBHoniLt:  of  manners  and  cuMoms  over  the  iiie;f9  | 
aod  UnguKge  of  a  people  wnukl  form  a  subject  of  i 
enrnuve  and  curious  nnearcb.  There  is  a  J  ipanese 
■overt),  that  **  A  6«  cannot  he  dispelled  with  a  | 
m!"    Had  we  not  Known  the  opioid  or  this  pro- 
Tctb,  it  wonld  be  evident  that  it  could  only  have 
Kcnntd  to  a  people  who  had  constantly  betiire 
them  fop  and  Uns ;  and  the  fact  appears  th'it  fo^s 
m  fnei|uent  on  the  coast  of  Japan  ;  and  that  from 
tbe  ;^  of  rive  years  both  sexes  of  the  Japanese 
cany  fans.    Tlie  Sp.miards  have  an  odd  pro%  crb  to 
desTihr  those  who  tease  and  >ex  .1  pcrMin  befo«e 
thcT  do  him  the  very  l)ene(it  which  tliey  ^re  about 
lo confer — ict>n)(  kindly,  but  speaking  roughly; 
Mtstrar  p*tmrro  la  hotca  que  el  luf^ai,  "To  4i<rw 
(be  gallows  before  they  show  the  town ;"  a  circum- 
tf-iiKe  alludini(  to  theT  smill  towni,  which  h  i\e  a 
nlhw-s  placed  on  an  eminence,  so  that  the  {•allows 
Mr4k4  on  the  eye  of  the  traveller  before  he  gets  a 
view  of  the  tovi  n  itnelf. 

The  Cheshire  proverb  on  marrintsc, "  Belter  wed 
orer  the  niixnn  than  over  the  m(M)r,"  that  is,  at 
borne  or  in  its  \  icinitv ;  mixon  alludes  to  the  clung, 
ftc.,  in  the  farm-ytrd, while  the  road  from  Chester 
to  London  is  over  the  moorland  in  Suilordshirc  : 
this  local  prvnerb  is  a  curious  instance  of  pruvmci  tl 
pride,  perrutpa  of  wisdtim,  to  mduce  the  gentry  of 
that  county  to  form  intermarriages;  to  prolong 
their  ow^  ancient  families,  and  perpetuate  .ancient 
fricndftlMps  between  them. 

In  thclsle  of  Man  a  proverbial  expression  forcibly 
iiulicatet  the  object  const.intly  occup\ing  the 
roindrt  of  the  inhabitants.  The  two  IX-emsters  r,r 
)udi;es,  when  appointed  to  the  ihair  of  judgm(.*nt, 
declare  they  viill  render  justice  between  man 
•nd  man  **  ks  e<]ually  ai  the  herrins  iKine  lies  be- 
tween tlie  two  sides :"  an  image  which  could  not 
have  occurred  to  anv  people  unaccustomed  to  the 
herring-ftsher>-.  There  is  a  Cornish  proverb, 
"  Those  who  will  not  be  ruled  by  the  rudder  must 
be  ruled  by  the  nick  " — the  strands  of  Cornwall, so 
often  covered  with  wrecks,  could  not  fdil  to  im- 
press on  the  imaginations  of  its  mhabitants  the 
two  objects  from  whence  they  drew  this  s.tiatar}- 
proverb,  against  obstinate  wrong-heads. 

When  Scotland,  in  the  last  centur)*,  felt  its  alle- 
giance to  England  doubtful,  and  when  the  French 
sent  an  expedition  to  the  Land  of  Cakes,  a  local  pro- 
verb was  revived,  to  show  the  identity  of  interests 
which  affected  both  nations  : 

"  If  Skiddaw  hath  a  cap 
Sk-ruttel  wots  full  well  of  that." 

These  are  two  high  hills,  one  in  Scotland  and  one 
in  KnglaiMl ;  so  near,  that  what  twppens  to  the  one 
will  not  Ik  long  ere  it  reach  the  other.  If  a  fog 
lodges  on  the  one,  it  is  sure  to  r.iin  on  the  other; 
tile  mutual  svmpathies  of  the  two  countries  were 
hence  deduceil  in  a  copious  dissertation,  by  Oswald 
Dvke,  on  what  was  called  "  The  Union-proverb," 
which  local  prtn-erbs  of  our  country,  Fuller  has  in- 
tetNperaed  in  his  '*  Worthies,"  and  Kay  and  Grose 
have  collected  separately. 
I  was  amused  lately  by  a  curious  financial  reve- 


l.ltidD  \\  till  \i   I  "i   lind   ■  11    111  (ipji'iN  t  '111   ]■  >\'i  ' ,  \*  '••  '■• 

It  apjjcirs  ih.tl  "  Ml^l^l».■r^  |»'i  itinl  ik  hi  ikc  !ln.ir 
loodoi  taxes  more  |M>njtik-,  by  shitiini;  the  >>iiril(.n, 
or  altering  the  pressure,  \Mtliout,  howi-vcr,  dnni* 
nishing  the  weight ;  acc<»rdipg  to  the  It  lii  in  pro- 
verb, *  y/ecomm»date  U  bisaccie  rrita  tfaJu,  To  tit 
the  load  on  the  journey  :'  "—it  is  t^ken  Iroin  a 
custom  of  the  mule-dnver%  who,  placing  tluir 
packages  at  first  but  awkwardly  on  the  backs  of 
their  poor  lieasts,  and  seeing  them  ready  to  sink, 
cry  out,  *•  Never  mind !  we  must  ht  them  bettei  on 
the  road  !'*  I  was  gratified  to  discover,  by  the  pre- 
sent and  some  OThcr  modem  •nsiinces|  that  the 
taste  for  prtAcrliswas  re«iving,  and  tint  we  were 
returning  to  those  sober  t  mes,  when  tite  aptitude 
ol  a  simple  pn.verb  v^oiild  l)e  prelerred  to  the  ver- 
lx)sity  oi  polMitians,  Tories,  Whii>s,  or  K:idii:iK  * 

There  are  dr»me>iiC  proverbs  uhnli  m-p-niic  in 
incidcn'.s  koiMvn  only  10  the  n-iiMcsof  their  pro- 
V mie.  Inli  m  litentiite  is  parti.  nl.irU  rich  tn  these 
stores.  'J  lie  I'vily  pniverbi  U  t.i*te  of  ihat  \ ««  anions 
people  w.is  tiin^lerred  lo  their  own  ^luthors;  oul 
when  these  allusions  were  oliMureil  by  tune, 
le.-tmed  I'alnns,  in  their  /e.il  lor  their  niiuinil 
lireriture,  and  in  their  nu.on.tl  l(*ie  ol  Mor>- 
lelimi:,  h.ive  wrinen  grave  tominentaru-s  even  nn 
ludicrous,  but  popular  t.des,  in  vvi>i<-h  the  j>ri .-verbs 
are  sjid  to  hive  orinmated.  They  resemble  the  old 
Ijcetious  ct>titt$,  whose  simplicity  and  hnnioiir  still 
live  m  the  p.iges  of  B(>ccacv.io,  and  are  not  lorgfitten 
in  those  ol  the  Queen  of  Navarre. 

The  Italians  apply  a  proverb  to  a  person  who, 
while  he  is  l)eaten,  takes  the  blows  quietly  : — 

Per  heato  ch'  etie  nnn  futon  prsche  ' 

*'  Luckily  they  were  not  pe.iches  !" 

And  to  threaten  to  give  a  man — 

I'na  fvsci  in  tin  occhio, 
*'  A  peach  in  the  eye," 

means  to  give  him  a  thnshintj.  This  proverb,  it  is 
said,  ongiptted  -n  the  close  of  a  cert  im  droll  ««l- 
veniu'c.  The  community  of  the  Castle  Poi;};i- 
Ixinsi,  p»-ob.ihlv  from  some  jmul  ir  tenure  obMrned 
on  St.  Bernard's  d.iv ,  pay  a  tribute  of  pe  iches  to  the 
court  <if 'I'ustanv,  which  are  usually  sh  itecl  among 
(he  ladies  in  waiting,  and  the  pages  of  the  court. 
It  htppened  one  season,  in  a  great  scarcity  of 
peaches,  that  the  g<Kxl  people  at  Pog^ilwnsi,  Hnd- 
ngihem  rather  dear,  sent,  instead  of  the  customary 
tribute,  a  r|u.intity  of  fine  juicy  figs,  which  was  so 
much  disapproved  of  by  the  p;»ges,  that  as  so<in  as 
they  got  hold  of  them,  they  began  in  'age  to  empty 
the  baskets  on  the  heads  of  the  ambassadors  of  the 
Poggibonsi,  who,  in  attempting  to  fly  as  well  is 
thev  could  from  the  pulpy  shower,  hali-hlmiUd, 
anu  recolletting  that  peaches  would  lii\e  had 
stones  in  them,  cried  c»ut — 

Prr  heato  ch'  tile  fion  JUrnn  pesche  ' 
*'  Luckily  they  were  not  peaches!" 

Fare  U  scalee  iti  Sunt'  ^nthrn^tn;  "  To  mount  the 
stairs  of  Saint  Ambro«ic,"  a  proverb  alluMve  to  the 
business  of  the  schtMil  ol  sciudil.  V-irchi  explains 
it  by  a  circumstance  so  common  in  provincial 
cities.  On  summer  evenings,  for  fresh  air  and 
gossip,  the  loungers  met  on  the  steps  and  landing- 
places  of  the  church  of  St.  Amhiose  :  whfiever  left 
the  party, "  they  read  in  his  l>ook,"  as  our  com« 


4CO 


THE  PHILuSuPHY  OF  FROVERhS. 


mentator  expresses  it;  and  not  a  leaf  was  passed 
over  1  All  liked  to  Join  a  party  so  well  informed  of 
one  another's  concerns,  and  eAer>'  one  tried  to  be 
the  vcr}-  last  to  quit  it, — not  **  to  leave  his  character 
behind  !"  It  became  a  proverbial  phrase  with  those 
who  left  a  company,  and  were  too  tender  of  their 
backs,  to  rcf|ucst  they  would  not  "mount  the 
stairs  of  St.  Ambrose."  Jonson  has  well  described 
such  a  company : 

"  You  are  so  truly  fear'd,  but  not  beloved 
One  of  another,  as  no  one  dares  break 
Company  from  the  rest,  lest  they  should  fall 
Upon  him  absent." 

Tlierc  are  legends  and  histories  which  belot»c:  to 
proverbs ;  and  some  of  the  most  ancient  refer  to 
incidents  which  have  not  always  been  commemo- 
rated. Two  Greek  provert»s  have  accidentally  l)cen 
explained  by  Pausanias :  **  He  is  a  man  ofTenedos!" 
to  describe  a  per«on  of  unouestionable  veracity ; 
and  "  To  cut  w  ith  the  Teneaian  axe ;"  to  express 
an  absolute  and  irrevocable  refusal.  The  tiiM  ori- 
ginated in  a  king  of  Tenedos,  who  decreed  that 
there  should  alwa^'s  stand  behind  the  ludge  a  man 
holding  an  axe,  feadv  to  execute  justue  on  any 
one  con\  icted  of  falseliood.  Ilie  other  aro*e  from 
the  s.ime  king,  who>c  father  having  reached  his 
i>l.ind,  to  supplicate  the  son's  for^ivcni'^s  for  the 
injur}-  iuHictcd  on  him  by  the  arts  of  a  step- 
mother, was  preparing  to  land ;  already  the  ship 
was  fastened  by  its  cable  to  a  rock  ;  when  the  son 
came  down,  and  sternly  cutting  the  cable  with  an 
axe,  sent  the  ship  adrift  to  the  mercy  of  the  waves : 
hence,  **  to  cut  with  the  Tenedian  axe,"  became 
proverbial  to  express  an  absolute  refavil.  .''Busi- 
ness to-morrow !"  is  another  Greek  proverb,  applied 
to  a  person  ruined  by  his  own  neglect.  The  fate  of 
an  eminent  person  perpetuated  the  expression 
which  he  casvially  empkned  on  the  occasion.  One 
of  the  Theban  piolemarchs,  m  the  midst  of  a  con- 
vivial partv,  received  despatches  relating  to  a  con- 
spiracy :  (Pushed  with  wine,  although  pressed  bv 
the  courier  to  open  them  immediately,  he  smilea, 
and  in  gaiety  laymg  the  letter  under  the  pillow  of 
his  couch, observed!  "  Business  to-morrow  !"  Plu- 
tarch records  that  he  fell  a  victim  to  the  twenty- 
four  hours  he  had  lost,  and  became  the  author 
of  a  proverb  which  was  still  circulated  among  the 
Greeks. 

TTie  philosophical  antiquary  may  often  discover 
how  many  a  proverb  commemorates  an  event 
which  has  escaped  from  the  more  solemn  monu- 
ments of  liiNtury,  and  is  often  the  solitar)*  authority 
of  its  existence.  A  national  event  in  Spanish  his- 
tor>'  is  preserxed  by  a  proverb.  7  Iyengar  quiniento 
sueldos ;  "And  revenge  five  hundred  poimdsl" 
An  odd  expres^sion  to  denote  a  person  being  a 
gentleman!  But  the  proverb  is  historical.  The 
Spaniards  of  Old  Castile  were  compelled  to  pay  an 
annual  tribute  of  tive  hundred  maidens  to  their 
masters,  the  Moors;  after  neveral  battles,  the 
Spaniards  succeeded  in  compromising  the  shame- 
ful tribute,  by  as  many  pieces  of  com  :  at  length 
the  day  arrived  when  they  entirely  emancipated 
themselves  from  this  odious  imposition.  Hie 
heroic  action  was  performed  by  men  of  distinction, 
and  the  event  peri>etuated  in  the  recollections  of 
the  Spaniards,  bv  this  singular  expression,  which 
alludes  to  the  dishonotirable  tribute,  was  applied 


to  characterise  all  men  of  high  honour,  and  devoted 
lovers  of  their  countr)-. 

Pasquier,  in  his  Rechtrches  sur  la  Frantt^  rrrirv^ 
ing  the  periodical  changes  of  ancient  famUies  is 
feiidd  times,  observes,  that  a  prmerb  amoD|;  tbi 
common  people  conveys  the  result  of  all  his  fl^ 
quiries ;  for  those  noble  houses,  which  in  a  siiq^ 
age  declined  from  nobility  and  wealth  to  povcitf 
and  meanness,  gave  rise  to  the  proverb,  Ccitf  tm 
bannirres et  cent  ant cri't'etei  f  **  One  hundred  yeSB 
a  banner,  and  one  hundred  years  a  b.irniw !"  The 
Italian  proverb.  Con  fEi'angUio  it  drftnta  kerttkt, 
**  With  the  gospel  we  bctome  heretics,"    leflecti 
the  policy  of  the  court  of  Rome ;  and  must  be 
dated  at  the  time  of  the  Reformation,  when  a 
translation  of  the  Scriptures  into  the  vulgar  tongue 
encountered  such  an  invincible  opposiiran.   Tbe 
Scotch  proverb,  "  He  that  twi-ented  the  maiJenJbrtt 
hanselled  U ;"  that  Ls,  got  the  first  of  it!    The 
maiden  is  that  well-known  beheading  engine,  re- 
vived by  the  French  surgeon   Guillotine.  Thii 
proverb   may    be   applied    to  one    who  falb  a 
victim  to  his  own  ingenuity;  the  artificer  of  lui 
own  destruction !    The  inventor  was  James,  Eal 
of  Morton,  who  for  some  years  go\'cmed  Scotknid, 
and  afterwards,  it  is  said,  ver>-  unjustly  sutfcred  hjr 
his  own  invention.    It  is  a' striking  coincidence, 
that    the   same  fate  was  shared  by  the  French 
reviver ;  both  alike  sad  examples  of  disturbed  times! 
Among  our  own  proverbs  a  remarkable  inddcnt 
has  been  commemorated ;  Hand  ever  hrad,  as  mem 
took  the  Cvi'enant !    TTiis  preserves  the  manner  ia 
which  the  Scottish  covenant,  so  famous  in  our  his* 
tory,  was  violently  taken  by  above  sixty  thousand 
penons  about  Edinburgh,  in  1638;  a  circumstance 
at  that  time  novel  in  our  own  re^oluticmary  hi»- 
tor>-,  and  afterwards  paralleled  by  the  French  in 
voting  by  "acclamation."     An   ancient   English 
proi-erb  preser\*es  a  curious  fact  concerning  our 
coinage.     'Testers  are  gone  to  Oxford,  to  study  at 
Bra'ten-nose.  When  Htrnr\-  the  Eighth  debated  the 
silver  coin,  called  testers^  irom  their  having  a  head 
stamped  on  each  side ;  the  brass,  breaking  out  in 
red  pimples  on  their  silver  faces,  provoked  the  ill- 
humour  of  the  people  to  vent  itself  in  this  punning 
proverb,  which  has  pre9er\-ed  for  the  historical  an- 
tiquar}'  the  popular  feeling  which  lasted  about  titty 
years,  till  Elizabeth  reformed  the  state  of  the  coin- 
age.   A  northern  proverb  among  us  has  preserved 
the  remarkable  idea  which  seems  to  ha\  e  <  nee 
been  prevalent ;  that  the  metropolis  of  England 
was  to  be  the  city  of  York  :  Lincoln  was,  London 
is,  rork  shall  be .'  U'hether  at  the  time  of  the  union 
of  the  crowns,  under  James  the  Firjt,  when  Eng- 
land and  Scotland  l)ecame  Great  Britain,  this  cit>, 
from  its  centrical  situation,  was  considered  as  tlie 
best  adapted  for  the  seat  of  government,  or  fniin 
some  otncr  cause  which  I  have  n|)t  disco\  ered,  this 
notion  must  have  been  prevalent  to  have  entered 
into  a  proverb.  The  chief  magistrate  of  York  is  the 
(mly  provincial  one  who  is  alloued  the  title  of 
Lord  Mavor;   a  circumstance  which  seems  con- 
nected with  this  proverb. 

Hie  Italian  history*  of  its  own  small  principalities, 
whose  well-bein^  so  much  depended  on  their  pru« 
dencc  and  sagacity,  aflords  many  instances  of^the 
timely  use  of  a  pnn-erb.  Many  an  intricate 
negotiation  has  been  contracted  tbrou^  a  good- 
humoured  proverb,  —  many  a  sarcastic  one  has 


THE  piiiLOsopnr  of  pro  verbs. 


MEdUH,  Muhlird  tcU>  ui,  Ihe  expelled  biu  kdi 

Counoji  EncnuTfin  ^^Tvnxb.Lngaltinatovtva^ 
*'71k  hen  a  bnodlnvl"  Bid  of  one  medilMting 
TenRADfv-     The  undjuntcd  CoaniD  Teplicd  by 


twrakingotr  kii Diatcli  with  i  younK lidy  o(  iteir 

■ail  the  ouih  of  the  young  eftvalicr  wa  ptiTpaaed 

■ul  IhE  nin»)ueiint  which  thcj'  inlklpiicil,  and 
which  iftRwirdi  piwed  to  fiU  to  Ihc  nsrenlinei, 
long  luipcnded  iljeir  dechUni.  AC  kfiKIh  Moieha 
Lumbeni  mdilenlv  riuDB,  cxelalcnal,  in  <wa  pro- 
rctbi,  thic  "TticK  who  coiulderEd  evnylhlDC 

"  3  dreil  done  hu  in  end !"  Thii  provob  ualn] 
the  hul  dnennlnMNiii,  ■nd  w«  kms  held  In 

conJiDg  to  Vllbni,  It  wa   Ihe   ciu^  'uid'  be- 


Thl«  ndlin  piDverb  wu  idopted  hy  MilKm  j  for 
whin  ilii'plv  enioKed  in  writinglbe  "  Dttcnte  of 
Ibc  PenpJe,"  im  winieil  that  it  might  lerminite 
In  h1i  Nlndnc«,  he  rcHlvedly  concluded  hii  work, 
CXfrlBlmuig  wiEh  fptit  RUEninimityi  >lthf>iigh  Ihr 
Tflijl  pTopiatlciuan  hud  been  AccomjiLkihAr,  Cou 
fail^  afta  An  /     Did  Ihil  pTor 


rffi 


LtfrMU  Jljrurt  Mbtrtga. 
*"rhe  fruit  of  brother  Aiberigc 
Lindino,  en  the  (ollo«la|  pH»^  of  . 
■emj  ih«  inglc  Kor|r  i 


bnCe  (be  rennnl  of  their  fticndAnp,  be  lnri»d 
dai>eft~-bul  II  wu  Ihe  lign^  of  Ihii  dlwmHiiling 

eienn,  connected  with  Ihine  of  inolber  people, 
he  hu  Killed  with  hit  cmlllnn,  the  proierh  u, 
Bngliih."  TtaisproTerhDTlEio.iIedwhenJahn,lliE 

penpkhave  Ibuip^Tpeiiuteil  the  nUliljry  gloi^nf 


ic.  hcid  bit  coiiTt  u  AviPDon  in  Prince;  tnd 
£ngll>Ji  pn»pcr?d  w  wciJi  Ih«I  [hey  pDvCHcd 
e  tlun  hAir  the  kingdom.     The  Spanish  pra- 


Tpa%  f  err  iRtyuirti  J 

cont-ictlan  al  die  ipJendid  roily  which  rhey  hul 

■Iwflyi  hire  been  i  detinbla  lUy  to  Spiln  jigilnsi 
her  porrnl  riril  vid  neighbour.  The  IebIiuu  have 
■  pmrcib,  which  formetly,  %t  leut,  wu  itrongly 
Indiciiiin  of  tbe  Innlled  Sngiidimin  in  their 

■nd  doting  IheRigniDf  Elivbclh  and  Jimei  the 
Pint,  thu  land  of  Ihe  eic^int  im  modelled  our 


THE  PHlLOSOFUr  OF  PROVERBS. 


t  ha 


.    .  lu  who  nvf  curmcy  to  Iht  proverb- 
da  /.r.  c*c  1  /i-n.  .(I  lUllU  «  *'W*ittm-J 

."  Our  pie-LoTing  gmtrjr  were  notoTloiu 
ipFW'9  (oim  wu  uHially  lud  open  to  Ihi 

Dnce  ShakapciTE  ind  Ihcil 


IdcDIical  p«e<Tusu  of  (be  EliiAbr 
I  tuve  Ibm  utempccd  to  dt%' 

Ihui  indicite  the  Ihi 


liltlc  n 


'dSi 

km  inkioiu  to  Tociie  rrom  prcrallkng  pr^udi 
thoe  neglected  nores  of  cutioiu  AmuKmenl,  i 
of  deep  ibicht  into  (he  wii  i  nCmin,  ind  (opo 

(ered  in  (hex  coUeclioEU-    There 


belCcRiDh 


in  lo  «hieh  ume  pro- 
I.    AU  l(rw«Iedge  wh 

1  vert  le  be  inauitir 


:i  It  U  jiutljr  ipplkible  to  on 
b  denonuruuoni  uid  become 
wn  ige«    A  proverb  will  oflei 

a,  palled  wi(h  (he  redundin 


ti  br  which  ■  hig  book  ii  nude.' 
'    '     ^     tr  of  prorefbi  could  show 


untible  dinTul()F  vbH 


Iheir  eollecton.    -unr  mv,  iirer  long  premcdiu- 

ln";i  ".brtHT oiJn"'bi1t"«'^r  •'^'""".'?' 

Alphabets    Afler  ten  ytut^  lAbour,  ike  good  man 

placet —-b^  comnete  Kntmces  —  by  phnaa  or 
ianm  of  «peech— «y  proverbial  almilei — and  BQ  on. 
All  Ihne  an  punued  m  alpbabdifai  order,  "  bv 


nwcity  of  tl 


which  tSii  jiiggler  of  p 


■tudy  of  procerbi  niu<(  be  a  rrequenl 


b)'  their  pcrpcloal 


rerta  unoag  the  niuoiu  i 
le  have  ifhrad  m  (bcir  ct 


llaLLan.    Prorerbs  frefiuenlly  enliven  convcTaj 

without  any  ^Img  of  vulgarity  being  aBociatrd 
with  Ihcin;  they  are  too  numerous,  too  iriiiy, 
and  too  viK,  to  ceaie  to  please  hv  their  poignaacy 
and  their  iptitnde.  t  hive  hcaiiJ  them  ItlT  Itom 
the  Dpi  of  men  of  ktlen  and  ofBalennen.  UIkd 
lecenlly  the  diiorderly  uite  of  the  mannbct 
of  H1anche3rcrmeaaenianLMUrTHtiDD,a  prof,___ 
Italian  poliiician  ohserrcd  to  me,  that  It  was  not  of 


'      "      "      ■    a  pbiJiMopbical 


liinking,  for  historical  aa  veil  ai 
;he  collected  knowledgEOfiucca 


Tiagery»  and  (he  (endemcaa  oftheir  a 


COSFUSIOS  OF  WOSDS. 


thii  km  book,  t 


LClning.    If 


ofliUIjr  in  ihifting  hb  gnniihl,  mike*  the  ronunt 
lit  «i  oppnncpl.    Whik  one  pnty  i>  worried  Ir 

foractniuT^'oriwo — juilhuhappcQcd  t  Vmgciii, 
wbo  uaed  ha  wbole  life  in  (he  iludy  of  woidi^ 

no* of ivDT^Io »pliin ^ wf.  KjtDlfori 


crilic,  CDniiDced  thil  he  hu  mult  hinuclf  andcr- 
aood,  gro*t  imimnul  byobKuriiy  I  fat  he  ihowi 
bow  1  few  timple  wor4»»   pot  iotcUigiblc,  nu; 

mri,  cipabk  uf  fifty  kiuo,  ind  you  nix  riOy 


disgulfcd  by  dillercnl  modes  of  exprnuon,  ind 
tame  tbiiu  lying  under  Ihe  bnn  and  chilT  kRer 

poLnu  difcuaed^     The   Noi4ijfALiBn  ind   the 


«;    th™. 


comprehend   thcli  j 


quality  oCfreibncMiUHl  inhqde  into  an  eijuipoiK, 

mctapfaytidim-    "LoT  Ibc  Nominaliio  aad  the 

KoliMi   ipinl"  tuUimtd  my  lonied  fttend, 


r.*    LEiiHin  confused  his  philn^iy  by  lb 
r  eren>.  iind  for  every  truth,  then  m    -  " 


]f  Uiwusar  pyo- 


wu  pmud  or  hii  eq 

itTbraiD J 1  new  inVe^retition  1  II  ii  conjectutnl 
(hat  be  onJy  emptoyed  bh  letm  oF  aijickii  rtaun, 
far  the  [da<n  limide  word  of  «■«(.    Even  LiKti, 

0rwonU,"lui  been  charged  with  uninjE  tagueand 
indefinite  ona  j  be  baa  iDmedmra  emplo>iMl  the 

lUte  ■  way,  lha[  they  have  conFuacd  his  philo- 
wphy ;  (bin,  by  »nK  imblguoui  eipresioni,  our 
Rcat  metaphyficlaB  bai  been  made  lo  eitaMiih 
docrrins  fatal  (o  (he  immuuhility  of  mnral  da- 

Newtok  gre*  dim  in  (heobaeurily  of  the  language 

ideal  i  (oi  Niwtoh  wrote  to  Locii,  "I  bnj  junr 
pardon  for  reproenling  (bat  you  rttuek  at  the  mot 
of  morality  in  a  jitinciple  laid  down  in  your  book 
of  Ideaa—and  (hi(  I  uok  you  lot  a  Hobbisl  Vt 


raid  ^iadpJi,  ai  employe* 
noraj  of  a  Hllury  word  ma,  . 

ler  a  whole  body  of  philoaophy;  "If  we  had 
ailed  the  intnlli  the  lniul»l"r  "p  Cosdillaf, 

f  a  word  we  ihonid  hare  aroidcd  ( 


If  we*luii 

....       .    .      at  JT^nuj 

ce  w  muiy  Ealic  reasooingi  have  beui 
na(only  %me(a|A™cian^  b.it  e^. 
ncUas."    The  ward  rraioit  hii  heei 


u>  hcen 

L'^jt:^ 

who.  while  he  lii-c3,  had  kept  AgricoU 

\ng  ai  tin.  our  Hlvitkon  depending  on  faith,  aiwl 
tonwDTka^  he  decl^med  againit  the  £>ruF  t/ 
d.    To  what  length!  wme  of  hli  icrt  puihcd 


•TumeriHtit.  of  Bngland,  i. 


COSFUSION  OF  WORDS. 


o(  thii  AsricQli  pmlutily 


r  ibTDgiltd  by  the  Gutpd, 


being  doigned  „-  — -  — 

Cbristiim.  Apricoli,  (ben,  by  ll 
"  Law  of  Cort,"  *lld  *'  Ihil  Ihcre 
thina  u  lio,"  mut  htve  Hid  i 
tnoVKT  I  Thiiappem  to  tui 
iiioM  of  Ac  dlviDci  oT  the  ti: 


undentood."    Tbere  evidently  prevailed  a 

ind  dve  Jsuitf,  iliow  Ihc  ihilt»  And  itnugeiru  by 
men  receired  from  God  fNjfcimr  friu^  tor  tbeiT 
meuphyilul  tbeolsgiit  iet  aSoit ;  Ibe  JcHilu. 

InsiMed,  Ibu  tbii  R^iiml  gttct  would  nei 
"TfavD  the  nt^wH'^tvf, which  i9not<jfffc 


woTifi,"  did  not  tiout  of  inferior  lucecB  lo  Pucil'fl 
Fonrier  meo  had,  indeedi  witneBed  even  a  mon 
melancholy    logomachy,   in   the   HmtmiunoB  Ami 

linown  to  the  Sotbonne,  were  left  out  of  ibi 


ru  M  4jm9  nne  Euerre  el  si  triste  et  %i  longue 
tttit  fani    de    Chrtliem,    Marlyrt    4'wnt   Jif- 

■f  the  Father,  or  of  the  ume  lubatance,  depended 
in  the  dipblbong  0r,  which  wu  alternately Riecicd 
ind  recdyed.  Had  ihey  earlier  riiacm'ei^  what 
lI  length  Ihey  igieed  on,  Ibat  the  wocda  denoted 


were  perpetually  occaiioDing  fr«h  dupnlei  among 

Prague  known,  like  onr  SbakeAPeair,  the  virtue  of 
■n  ir,  or  agreed  witt;  Hobbet,  that  he  ihooJd  oat 

he  miRht  ha^  been  tpaied  from  (he  flainn, 

"Perfafpt  Vvi^mrA/wai  nothing  elK  but  the  com- 

who  protected  the  Jeiuiia,  and  of  the  coart  of 


condemned ;  and  vtien  the  nval  parties  dcA>a(che<d 

the  other  cloie  by  a  full  period  T 
In  politict,  what  evib  have  resulted  from  ibatnct 

"The  Eqnaliiy  of  Man— the  Sovereignty  or  the 
Majesty  of  the  People — Loyalty — Refi^rm — ei^en 
Li tKRy  herself  I — public  opinion — Public  interest " 
—and  other  abstncl  mtiona,  vhich  hare  nciled 
the  hatred  or  the  ridicnle  ol  Ibe  vulgar.    Abstract 

the  combalinti  will  be  usually  found  willii»  to 
tight  for  words  id  which,  perhaps,  not  oik  dI  inem 
hare  attached  inr  settled  sienilicaEiDn.    Tbb  is 

"Abuse  of  Words."  "Wisdom,  Glorv,  Gncc, 
&C.,  ire  words  fr«(|uenl  enough  in  ever)-  man's 

should  be  jsliedwhat  they  mean  1^  them,  Ihejr 

V.-htn  Ihe  Ameiicin  eiclaimed  that  be  wis  not 
pan  of  the  people  of  Bngland  wen  electors.    Aa 

who  could  not  object  chat  others  should  be  land 
rather  thin  thenuelvaj  but  with  the  Americans 

appeared  lo  have  swept  away  moil  of  our  fliDrr 


COSFmiON  OF  WORDS. 


iiwcd.L'EttliiiiUiiuo 
Ok  hippinniDliwho 
lud   protubly  ihovn 


(>n.Uyinvol 


tiiistMmclng  every  people.  ^  LibcTly,'*"  Equ4iily," 

the  bnini  of  thnc  who  unnot  »ffix  Iny  dchnite 
Docioflfl  to  rhem ;  they  uv  tike  those  chimerieAl 

pljcei  j"  and  IrtitAte  the  rcelingi  of  the  populace, 

When  we  liilen  u  fRquemly  to  luch  ibunci 
tenni   u  "  the   mtjniy  of  IM  peuple  '■— "  the 

that  ">|]  power  !•  deiived  fnin  the  people,"  we 
cm  iDTin  no  deKnlte  DDtlolls  i  it  il  "  I  cooluwon  of 
wonb,"  contrHlictliut  dl  Uie  polilicil  eiperietice 
out  itudici  or  OUT  obKnitiotH  furtiiih  ;  ht  forc- 
rei^ty  H  otihHihcd  to  nije,  id  eooduct,  anil  to 


I  oiucttLed,  m  applied 


<  notion  attached  I 


ime  of  the  Freoch 


mganul  lit  ptpulma,  who  had  fai-Qured 

deui*!  perpetual  iltelitonhip  I  ind  the  populace 
of  Patii  availed  thetbidvea  of  it,  dfanu(r*#Nafi«>uf 

Thii  "  rontunDn  of  word^"  in  tiDie4eniEit 
politics,  hu  too  often  confounded  right  and  wTT>iig ; 

only  on  id  poaoiCon,  have  found  no  difficulty  in 

ipecJDiu   hj-pothoci   I 

aciencei,  by  utterly  depriving  a  man  of  any  I 
When  the  unhappy  Charlea  the  Pint  pleaded,  thai 
to  pau  the  bill  of  attainder  agalnn  the  Earl  of 
StnHoid  wa>  acainil  hii  conwience,  that  remark- 
•hie  character  of  "boldneH  and  ImiMr."  n 
Clareadon  chatacterbci  WllUairu,  Arcbblahop  of 
York,  on  thit  arBoment  of  feqjclnur  (a  limple 

I1VI  aril  tlitnKuna,  pobllc  and  nivaU  i  that  hii 

Eublic  coTucicDCe  ja  a  king  mlEnl  difpeiKwilb 
\i  private  conicltivce  ai  a  maur'  luch  waa  the 
ienommiDDi  argnmeni  which  decided  Ibe  late  of 
inat  great  victim  of  Mate  ?  It  waa  an  impvdenl 
**  confuuon  of  wprdi,"  when  Prynnc  (In  order  to 

warring  with  the  king}  obaerved,  that  tbc  itMnte 


of  ijih  Edward  HI.  run  in  the  lingular 
therelbre,  could  not  he  eitL-nded  to  i 


wai  a  pTovidenDal  right,  and  Ibe  other  a  leal 

and  take  a  thing,  and  another  at  righteously  hold 

the  pnvi4rntUi  right  by  pooeHinn  i  and  lince  all 
authority  tomei  from  Ood,  the  people  were  obliged 
to  tnniler  their  allegiance  to  him  ai  a  king  of 
God's  miking:  ao  that  he  who  bad  the  pnn1- 
dential  right,  necennily  had  the  legal  one  ■  a  very 
aimple  diKoveiy,  v^hich  muiT,  however,  hire  coat 
him  Kme  paini]  fv  tfaii  conltninder  of  words  wla 

JuTonl  A  French  politician  of  this  uamp  recently 
was  suspended  fram  hia  leetumhip,  for  averting 
that  lAr  >«aruiiii  ff  Ike  Kii  was  a  right ;  by  which 
principle,  aaji  Hag  reigning  orer  a  country, 
vbetner  by  treachery,  crime,  and  usurpation,  was 
a  ((^IhMIt  itvmlfii.  Pot  Ibis  convenient  princi- 
ple the  lecturer  waa  tried,  and  declared  not  guilty 


f  "Kesniger'i  NcBotialian  with'  the  Court  of 
:iigland."    when  that  aecret  agent  of  Louii  XIV. 


ary,  on  this  delicate  point,  to  quiet  the  aniiety 
if  the  English  public,  and  our  ajliea  j  but  though 
he  FieiKh  king  was  willing  to  recognise  Anne'i 
itte  to  the  throne,  yet  the  settlement  m  the  house 

Lord  Bolin^ 


It  htmfirm  llu  obt^alma  qf 


iguage  was  probahly  understood  by  Lord  Bvling- 

jke;  at  tbcnealconfeiencehlakirddiipinriDrmed 

the  secret  asenr,  *'  that  the  queen  could  pot  admit 

of  any  fxwiufiaiif,  v//ulnrtr  htr  iBImiifiti  mtRhl 


CONFUSION  OF  WORDS. 


OB  an  opedieiit ;  he  wn>te  tbc 
TwinUtppcirH  In  Ibe  prrLimi- 
luii  xrv.  will  Kknowledge  the 


III  the  Bngliih  nilion  • 


logiuBt,  ho»  can  Ihei-  |i<«blr  «t  logahtr 
lie  Biuop  ol  ttlnchmvr  till  pm-cd  ihitobKn-A 


itof  tA  ttlnchmvr  till  pm-cd 


piuited  by  Ihe  <\v 
pnrunt  ne^iiU^ 


Hii  jpKC  iltd  not  ohicct  to  the 

and,  ta  i  nccflury  pTclimlpfry,  be 


n  wa  bickcn  off,  by  n 


'«|!'«™1^nr^",.'" 


dornihion   mjdc  The  ij 

rd  philDVhphcn  occukmcd  jt  i 

m-bich  h«  fmiucbtly  revived  tem 
intiquilv.  Kiho|i  IviDon  cnlitlei 
ol  ItK  Bible  "  in  aftfajy-""  Ihu  1" 
wbom  be  TbTtkul^m- iddnwd  h 

vc  Acctutomea  lo-  UnquenkHU 
mdm  have  imuioed  that  Ihv  bia 


il.jMI.     Bui  mpn-lrnHimrig 


ib  kuigiuKt  Hpla&Dcd  hb  tneuhig  bj  0viBf 

langiuge.  Tbvi  alv  w|Th  m,  tbc  word  imiiftma 
haa  ebtircly  changnl :  ■□  hadonan,  vboK  unitfc 
wjH  in4\fffniiUy  wTincD,  would   fonncrtf  ban 

pnj-ed  Uut "  maglMnta  may  indiftrtntly  mmbtEr 
juallct."  laUfcnllji  Dlipnally  meanl  hmfmnt^. 

■.n  called  rinrvafani  by  uunifrrhir  «(  Dl  Ihc 

nugh  Ifaat  coUectlon.  U'ben  Lulhct  bad  Ibe 
iCRIala  pqbluiLy  bunit  a(  WitlembDrsfa,  Fbe  ilk^ 
tt  vai  deilgiKtl  for  Ibe  pope,  ruber  than  aa  a 


uoD  to  the  Lutheran.  What  eonTHsion  of  votila 
has  Ihc  canrnaq  fmvnf  Ibe  Scdcb  melaphyaidana 
intixHluced  inlo  phllviophy  I    There  are  tw  wovc^ 

Ently  interpieted  i  and  hofeawr  DugaJd  £re«-art 


c    and    Held  1    and    Reid,    who   Inlrbduced 
ague,    ambiguoui    phrase    in   pbikHDpbicaJ 

ing  of  vntdSf  which  it  comtanUy   recumn^  in 


iUndnted  by  Ihe  fate  orilK  nameToui  ini  ennm 

tcniH  In  appeaiMice.  la  expns  Ibe  »me  Ihtog, 
■ome,  by  IheiT  mode  ol  phikwiphitiot  baie 
ttraofcly   aiacttled   Ibe  nvda  ttV-mlrrrti  and 


CO.VFUSrOlt  OF  WO/IDS. 


tdf-tn't;  ukI  TbciT  miKonccpMoiu  hjv?  udly 
otbcn  aIw,  by  luch  Togor  tFrmq  u  "  uhliry,  111- 
Vhm  £pifiirus  ihcncil  thtt  th?  hhttti^  k"°^ 

■iuic  bik  wfJ,  prrhaiH  rhnwn  m  ihc  ipiril  o( 
^■idoi,  wB  vumJf  Hloplcd  hy  Ijit  Kuiiulitf, 
Ipinrtvi,  or  whom  Seneca  bu  driwn  la  bcnilirul 
I  itmatK  Knx,  in  vhAK  giRicn  m  \ontt  A  Cythc- 

tme  ibtnl,*  vu  Ibc  Idle  bthoquct,  would  btTc 

"Tbc  trncM  bog  In  BpicunD' fryv  V' 
•ndi  an  Ihc  (net*  which  illiutntc  Ihu  principle 
ifl  "tbeabBK  of  mnl«,"  whicb  Locke  calU  "an 
ufccteil  obacuTilj  vuing  tjmtk  ippjytng  aU  vwiIa 

Tbc  puiooi  wordti  by  Jicci<teiital  HHCiitioiu, 
lay  taggat  Ihc  moal  efnncoiu  cimcrpiiom,  and 
«Tc  been  pmlocllTe  of  fhc  grolot  emn.    In 


bi«  licwvorthc  lidnltieilldn  aft  plain  wnril. 


wilb  Mbcw  frti-ali  EpinJiir.  and  wllh  moU  !■»- 

to  IN  fnnitiic  timinicMion— i»f  «•(  nitwi^ 

imi*ln<  pinhahl)r  iTUnr«l  db  Um  hii  own  Icnn 
of  fjkr  «B«llHfrrTjr,  which  mt^I  be  j  teryDppDtita 
one, Kcndtng  to  ibiir  n«ion>  1  ft  babccnfifil, 
wilb  what  Imth  I  know  mtjlbit  if  wu'by  a  ram 

alarm  Ibc  gmi  wbiE  bmilis,  br  ihcming  them 
tbrirfate  In  thai  of  the  ?i«ch  luiliui;  (bey  wnv 
muleil  bv  Ibc  iniUni.li  rf  iuiuh.     The  l^nch 

lily,  a>  Tbc)'  havE  lo  the  Handattna  ol  China, 

Ihc  iiinc  tcnni  mbapplieil,  hue  olltn  railed  thoK 

iDiu  imagined  ip  Ihli  counlry,  that  the  ptnliamwnli 

IhiajD.    Victi,  Ihiunilcd,  are  introduced  lo  hi 


k-ticn  we  diVQvcr  that  fhev  vorda  ^u^KmL-d  a 
ct  nl  o»nsHe  nntinih  In  racb. 
Bnl  (be  NmninaHiIi  and  the  Reailin,  and  Ihe 


by  1  new  companv  of  aelon,  in  the  mndem 
ccimedy  Df  hiilicai  IcMKHny ;  and  the  whnle 
diakwue  bia  been  carried  «  In  an  inimliable 
*'conTa<ion  nf  vordal"  Tba  Tcaicinii>ic  and  un- 
king fralcmlty  never  U4  a  Irmt,  ai  a  tenn, 

tjf,  «igniti»  opwhiie  Ihla^  biil  netct  the 
« 1    ll  il   nm,  Iberefnn,  Rrangr.  Ih»   Ihe^ 


In  arc  niH  emcb4n)!ed  rorntniinndiT^f  tmlv; 

. ,   m  ahn  euhitiKL^  Im-  /tf^au*;"  and  when 

(he  hkpDchDndri,ic  Rntf  isbnian,  wtlli  di-miy,  liire- 
•cet ''  the  glui  Id"  niirkeli,"  iiid  tonehiiln  Ihal  we 
may  prpducE  more  than  we  ran  cuniume,  Ihe 

idciiil  i>KmUlT<c"pnXctM)m'''?nHii^ri7nm 


;  iliat  "a  Klotlvd  nuiket  n  im  a 


jBetj  but  tbi<  ISM  of  polllici. ,. 


<le«  judge,  Mr.  HIcardu,  In  dc< 
!>'  on  Adam  smith,  U  he  will  > 


WE,  whom 

Tiaiu  un 

flilkiled 

sru' 

„S" 

pihcnn 

of  hl>  i 

lEllCCl. 

ciie.lt 

ippcaicd  that  "  he  hid  ecnlH*  in  rhe  eljEhlh  de- 
erre,  Eloquence  In  IheAnb,  bnl  juilirneni  only  In 


408                                        POUTICAI.  SICKXAilEi^. 

UKient) !  for  he  hud  1  DBiInn  Ihu  the  mndeni) '  folioi,  wu  comldenil  not  tncfdy  nUnkna,  but 

must  hire  acquired  all  Ihev  poncocd.  Hiib  a  lowl    u  dinsemus.     II  icis  bum)  al  TduIdhk,  in  iic). 

hudnd  and  ilitr-lva  woriu,  diHering  in  biejdth    pi™.     An  lulian  Ie™t  pnblMied  ao  "  api>iaK)r  - 

n«di»nlb«;  for  whicb  putpOK  hi<  lu  work  !  tcrred  the  honour  bnlawed  on  hii  ingenuity,  Ihe  | 

alwip.i  lerened  to  Ihe  precedlne  onei,  and  could 

™  wS!?.y-"^^  n.'nT^  '"  m  a         err, ' 

thow  which  were  tn  fnUov.     Ai  he  had  the  e<"d 

menl,   muV   begin   Ihii  olmalion'by   ipreadini 

calurnnlo.  tn  defame  the  pennn  or  the  gorera- 

ohncnre  and  equlmcol  term%  io  avoid  thi."con- 

ftuion  of  »ard^"  he  inveoled  a  jargon  of  hit  own  1 

almyi  rind  a  great  number  of  penoni  intlined  to 

believe  hiiti,  or  to  lide  with  hioi;   it  Ihetefoti 

jected  granmari  and  vocihDlatiei  hy  which  we 

(dUdw),  ihat  whenever  the  oli)eci  of  tiich  ralum- 

the  onlv  mas  who  anderuocid  hiniiclf.    He  put 

e>er>'  aulbor  in  iteipair  hf  Ihe  wotki  ollich  he  an- 

on  that  credit,  and  >ihk  under  the  perrruneni  and 

vindictive  attacki  of  the  calumnialor."     ThU  i> 

mmniar,"ind  hi."«(d«fompiminar."*    Yet 
thii  ureal  CinniDel,  the  crilica  have  >Ei«d,  wai 
nnthini  but  a  puilv  luant,  with  lea  too  weak  for 

enemiet  of  the  Jeniitt  have  formed  a  Itii  of  great 

nam«  who  had  become  Ihe  ticlimi  of  nich  atn>- 

cioui  Hachiavelnm* 
Thii  hai  been  one  of  the  am  ptactiicd  by  all 

amiOri  >  •■  C(nfu>i6n  of  word.." 

titJl  ittlle  what  he  meani  b)-  the  nituie  ofTj™  ] 

nantllj  1  with  the  divine,  what  he  deen»  orifto- 

dne:  with  the  Mlitical  cconomiu,  what  he  coo- 

maiked  by  Ihe  paiaiani  of  the  paity  which  be- 

Vctreme  laxity  or  vaRuene^i  of  woaniTwhlch 

m'kei  everv  writct,  M  qK;.ker.  cnmplain  of  bi> 

prcdvccwir,  and  uttcmpl,  lomelimn  not  in  the 
bnt  lemper,  u  deiine  and  to  aetile  the  lienibca- 
lioD  of  vibM  Ihe  wilt)-  South  calU  "  Ihoie  nhblc 

them  to  be  of  thb  clati  i  and  it  wk.  flattery  of  the 

ehaming  •ordi.  Which  cjttj-  ko  much  wUd-Kre 

wnpl  up  in  them." 

of  hroochn  in  Ihcir  haU,  they  wore  little  wooden 

plalten,  such  is  beggara  raed,  ind  faaes"  taih 

iheMGi«i.xlhei-inKrihed,"ilat^TurWrfiihan 

PoiiTTC.L  Calumny  ii  uid  lo  haie  been  rednced 

Po^jh  !'■  and  had  the  print  of  a  eocfc  crowing,  out 

inlD  an  an,  like   thai  of  InRic.   hy   the   JeiuiH. 

Thiilt>clfm>)'beapoliticaI<.'alumny1    A  power- 
fnl  hody.wl™  lhen«lvea  had  praetiHi  the  acti- 

wai  drawn  nut  of  one  of  the  clncaraulhon  uied 

igul  li  imnJi  ■  which  wai  everywhere  lel  up,  and 
teitantj  in  France,  after  a  variety  of  Dicknamei  to 

becauw  they  would  only  talk  about  Chriu.rimilir 

In  their  eoUesei.    BuKmbaum,  a  Oemian  lauit. 

to  our  IHiiltaiH,  and  Paipaiatli,  a  imall  baae  nin, 
which  ihey  odioutiv  applied  to  them.  «  length 

olOf^K  oioraHs*-  where,  among  olher  CMUIUIeal 

•eltled  in  the  well-kowm  term  of  Hapn-Wj,  of 
which  Ihe  origin  wag  proHihly  derived  Irom  their 

leialtl  "  marrow  "  one  which  favoured  leelchle 

hldlnc  Ihem^vet  in  tecret  placea,  and  appearing 
al  niSk  like  kiPg  Hugon.  the  greai  hobgobHna 
France  i  the  term   hai   been   pmervTiT  bi   an 
eirlhen  vend  without    feet,  nxd   in   cookeiy. 

irilical  mnment  of  Uamleni  atlempt,  the  duo- 

decimo of  the  uhl  icholaitic  ]e«>lt,  which  hid  now 

dra  Iheir  meat,  anl  to  .void  oh«rvationj   ■ 

•  Baillet  givo  the  ditn  and  plant  of  theie 
mmm™      Tlie    ttMuiic   wa.' puhl„hed    in 

JhTciJcu^SSr^;  mnfTecUd  w?lh"i<. '"  ""  ^""^ 

lomcequialaiienPonugai  la  Sociitide  Jinx. 

V,ri.ii.Kt,4.t..                      "^ 

POLITICAL  NICKNAMES.                                      4^  ) 

The  ItniciDU.  iniurrtction,  cilled  ia  J^jiifrii, 

vm  Killed  between  tbe  king  ind  the  pirliiment, 
t  wu  more  piitlculitly  ipplied  to  the  futlon  of 

When  John  o(  Fnnce  wu  1  priwnir  In  HniUnd. 
hli  kingdom  ipptira  10  hive  b«n  doolilcd^  iti 

Cinbnil  De  Ben,  who  (liU  held  out.    "Ween- 

mindiol  people;   ind  one  evening  we  nwilTed  ta 

npioiched  Ihii  lynnnlcil  nobUitr  with  hiving 

wew  hit-itnnp  In  the  fomi  or  >lin^.    A  hitler, 
who  might  be  Iruitcd  with  the  KCret^   nude  i 
grtit  number  u  1  new  fuhlon,  ind  which  were 

J«gu>  »•>■  ItMPiH  mial  [»/  for  ill.    But  /«t 

we  outlive,  were  the  lut  to  idapt  Ihem,  thit  the 
nvenlion  inigfat  not  ippeir  to  live  come  from 

(Mj-mcn  ume  (orwicd  tn  penon-iiich  m  lado 

iIipuRd  anilcT  thii  fiUI  umc,  •nd  the  pcsinn 

oriilingi  breid,  hitt.glova.hindketchicft.lins, 
kc.,  loJwe  ounelvei  beeime  more  in  tMhion  bv 

but  Ibe  J.itB*r»,  who  hud  recdwd  tht"  lirtt 

French.  1  ciieunuUnee  which  mighl  have  been 
considered  u  pngnoRic  oT  that  liter  lerolulion. 

•PpelluioB  ID  derntn,  MiOiiRd  it  _  UeU  IK.  A 

'°l"ti«  fpitilcd  Mcmoin  of  tbt  thike  or  OniK, 

butnotthediringloeMiblith.    We  tee,  however, 

IhK  greit  poUticiu,  eonfeaiiig  tbe  idvintige  hH 
pinv  deilted  by  cncounging  the  ippllcition  of  i 
>r^3«ne.  wh3.  «ved*»  hen  tte  miad.  of 
people." 

kingdom  or  Kipla,  wtfinil  ■  mriou.  ucouDt  of 
Dima.    "  Gcnnuro  nod  Viceoio,"  uyi  Um  duke. 

■'  cherabed  nniMumd  IhaC  irenioiii  the  ruciUir 

hid  for  (he  better  utt  of  citliou  ind  civlllR 

to  recount  in  lbi»  ch.pter  on  "Pollticil  Wick- 

pcopJe,  who.  bj-  the  iiiKilrncLei  they  niffRrd  from 
ikcK,  not  uBiuily  tailed  Them,     -rhe  better  c1i» 

nime.  "  >  rimillu  term  with  ill  loiren  of  irt,  Ihil 

of  SMimii,  1     Tbii  it  well  ondenlaod  b  •  tbiit 

inhjbitinK  the  tubuibi  or  the  Vlijin  were  uUed 

Hack  duilu,  ind  the  otdiniry  lort  of  people  look 

the  ume  otimri."  both  in  Freoeh  ind  Engliih 

dictionuy.  either  in  Ihu  or  L-AcaiUmu,  or  In, 

in  old  word  for  1  lepnin  beggit,  ind  hence  the 

tlw*/  TheDokeidil^"JiHtiiiltbe  beginning 

cent  term  ortglniled  In  ■  poliUeil  nicknime' 

of  the  raTOiulion,  the  molten  in  Pllndeit  tonnerly 

SiUuuiiu  wi>  miniuer of  tlite  in  Ftince  in  I75»l 

look  thit  of  ^gi'"!  'boK  or  Cuienne  Ihit  of 

that  period  wu  i  crilicil  one :  the  lieiuitr  wn  in 
•n  eibiiuled  condilioB,  lai  Silhouette,  a  ren 

or  BeiuHe  ind  Soulogne,  af  vrisMn-faiiiKi."     In 
the  lite  Frcnth  ie«3ulioo,  we  otanved  the  ei- 

tiema  Indulged  bf  both  pinin  chieey  cooceincd 

rich,  who,  in  dcriHMi.  ciUed  their  humUe  rtOow- 

thin  London,  where  a  Kilo  or  a  Zeno  could  long 

piD'oked  I  reicting  iruwtlee  from  the  ponuUce, 
who.    •>   •    dleidfiS    l«nm    lot    only  i    .light, 

be  minDler  of  aite,  without  incurrinz  ill  the 

ridicule   of  tbe  wretched   Willi       At   Rr>t    they 

pirtcnded  to  tike  hli  idvice,  merely  to  liugh  at 
tim  1— Ibey  cut  their  coID  .hoHet,  ind  wore  them 

for  plunder  otiliugbtecl 

It  ii  1  curiout  rut  that  the  French  nrb/'Xblfr, 

wiihout  ileeveii  they  turned  their  gold  iniilf- 
boi»  into  mugli  wooden  onea ;   mi  the  new 

Euhioned  portnit.  were  now  only  pmliles  of  ■ 
face,  tneerby  .  black  pencil  on  the  .hidow  ca« 

ind,  mon  eitenilTely.detigoilei  >n>  hypeiboUril 
■nd  nullgnintcrillclim.oTinyiort  orcondemni- 
lion.     -nioe  wanb  hive  been  only  Inlnduced 

XmS".t  ™  or'^.i^'X-eeci^y"  t^  ™ 
bi.  projecti  of  ilvinRI  Ind  TefSnni ;  but  hai  left 

De  Keti  lucce^k  In  rising  ■  futioB  igiliut 

Cirdlnil    Hiurin,  known    In  rrnnch  hiBory  by 

poTlnlt,  and  one  la  melanchnly  u  h»  own  fitc. 

the  pirliiment  wen  like  thd«  •cboolbojn.  who 

by  contending  inteietti  i>  oaneli-ei ;  every  putr 

fllnitheiTHonalnthe  plo  of  Pirti. "d  u  locin 
u  Ibey  (ee  the  lliuUnatl  Civil,  run  iwiy ;  bat 

with  oi  hire    hul  their  wilcbword,  which    ba 

on  the  bi]i.dogi  of  one  fiction  to  worry  ind  leir 

410                                       POLITICAL  NICKNAMES. 

.imiralDlhii  hoDii  the  tijing  ^fficoltia  thU  |  pmoiu.  bn>  Ihe  ivriod  o-hen  tbcimd  ctunged 

*iit  ■DvenigD  bvl  lo  overcame  in  lailins  Ihc    IB  ordiniry  mciaina  wu  «r<v :  cturia,  Im  ifia, 
>hc  ^.t  iivXiom nf  her  pn^  i  .he  J™^  "  '  datiiKi™,  u  "The  Iru^^u^^m  f^^w^ 

Ihc  B«f  RbglOQ.  IDd  BHghl  Id  miile.  u.d  no!  to 

tumulo."    And  Ihe  Tinili«>  plEtded  for  Ibem- 

«lriu,  bcr  childm.    Joba  Knoi.  in  Ihe  .pint 
oT  cbirity,  d«tind,  lh><  "ibt  w«  nriihM  gude 

>l.'<.,ihmt  ihehiieful^ignatuDwniUu^ 

pTMoluii,  SOT  ya  nolute  PapiS!  in  ibevotkl 

»riii-iiy  in  dwng  evil,  vhcreu  we  hue  ilwnn 
been  on  the  Iul£iing  Me  in  out  pefMm,  enlH*, 

jiidEC<itibilkbtlKIbM." 

M.de.t«e.;  bnl  the  ptriiamenlirtui,  -  piiiBUis 

bumia   jraiily,  thty  obained   ihc  nicktuniE  of 

.  ghUly  .mi:c,~  would  Kpl,,  Ibit  "  Ihe  n>7.IM. 

would  h>ve  been  m^lifunl  hid  ther  pnreil  ne- 

ee»ful."      The  truth  \  IhM  Hl^n  HWHrt 
wiih  both  pulls  my  oppontiin  of  oplBioa.    At 

.thu  cuIt  period  tbcK  nickoamci  wen  Kon  uW 

lu,i,  ind  r«..lar,  lupphed  the  people  with  pHty- 
u.m«,  -ho  we«  .liTidy  (mn-Hled  with  »  mar 

rehgiou,  u  well  «  rtiil  cinse.  of  ouarel;  Ifac 
cropl  heuli  of  the  luUen  lectuiei  ind  Ihe  people 

WB  the  origio  of  the  deriioiy  nickninwi  Oie 
fplendid  eleBince  ind  Ihe  tomindc  ipiril  of  Ihe 

ofBIiubcth.BF.,- 
"  If  hypociila,  vhy  ^n'Mndwe  term  beukad. 

•m  bul  inirtnim  IK^ !  good-feUow  lO  ipcli 

loyilifti  long   iwed   Ihe  nbble,  who   In   tbeir 
mockei)-  could  br»nd  them  by  no  olher  ippeUa- 

Hddbi  PuUet,  who  knew  Ihmt  miny  good  mm 
wne  imong  thoc  Pxrium,  uriihed  ro  £cJ>ne  the 

tion  thin  one  in  which  their  beiren  glorieil.    Al 
these  dbtncted  lima  of  eirlv  TvriSalion,  hit 

eoed  hi  the  oSium  nor  Ihox  who  cU  it.  e.n 

dehne  A^  hilefnl  appemiiie.    when  Ihe  term  of 

(hii  ptny.  in  Chirle.  Ih,  tinfi  lime.  hHl  be™ 
too  oWuHve  nol   lo  fuily  merit  Ihe  ironici]  ip- 

^UUiie;    ind   the   jncerul   opedknt  of  our 

or  irtcertaine/^  li  ktved  however  Ibe  end  of 

11  wu  wrltlen.    Tbe  people  bjve  frequenlly  ei- 

thov  revoluiionlfn,  who  had  coined  il.  by  inrolr. 

by  Kme  ipl  nickniDie.    In  Kicbird  Ihe  Sccond'i 

in«  tar  p™™  'B.  «  tolouring  my  kMoo  by. 

»>'en:isn.  u  uell  »  tbcii  ungulnur  meauiRt. 

not  decide ;  but,  when  he  tdb  on  th>l  there  wu 

reign,  nrhen  the  Bluk  h-ince  wm  ™i  liviot  Ihe 
pariiiment,  Cor  huHnR  punued  widi  tcieriiy  the 

anolber  wiird  which  wn  IntrodDced   inio  niir 

nolioB  It  thki  time,  1  think  it  lent  thil  the  wbole 

pirty  «(  Ibe  duteof  L>iK>wi,«<u  »  popolir. 

the  wotil  plnniiT,  which  vme  make  of  Latin  ort- 

menc.     in  Henrv-  ,&  Thinit  lime,  the  p.riii- 

men.  oppMing  the  king  wa  Hlled  "  F«lu^n,^m 

gioal.  from  ^-M  d^u.  to  U^l.  VifU^M^ 

i-iMnun,"  Ihe  mid  pirhimenl,  beciiue  Ibe  lordi 

nothing  r      Othen  of  Dutch  eitnclLon.  »  if  it 

■■ere  lo  fl-ri'.  or  pluck  Ihe  fcithen  of  >  bird  lo 

tbe  biie  ikin.    Sure  1  im  we  lint  heani  oF  it  Id 

perpetuil    Jiiftingi    from    pl«e   lo   pim,   wm 

the  Swedish  win ;  ind  if  Ihe  Dime  ind  thine 

.nJolhen  beiring  Hliric^  ot  liXE^  epithet!! 

eyet  would  weep  thereal."      AU    Bn^dand    had 

which  WD  It  fint  thai  of  honor,  till  il  ifterwai* 

JJ^n:e.or  Ihe  mu^r'leelingj' influenced  by  deln' 

lifKanl   darkened    tEc   nitian    IhiOMgh   Ibe  riy-ii 

in  lown  and  counny  vied  with  each  other  Id 

■■l«n«,t  •wmf,"  oi  beef  which  were  hnng  hf 

•nd  proved  how  Ibe  people,  like  childim,  eonw 
al  length  to  make  •  playlbing  of  Itait  wbicb  oacc 

holkal  one  wu  m«l  idipied  to  eiupeiile  the 

n.,»e».     1  h..e  Be.er  Selected  the  «^ive  mu. 

Charlei  II.,  during  the  Aort  holiday  of  tbe  ram- 

of  (iclioB  who  lint  hil  on  Ibii  odioui  bnnd  (or 

ntion— 111  bolidiyi  teem  >bon  t-and  when  he 

DOMESTIC  LIFE  OF  A  POET:  SllEX.'JTOXE  VINDICATED. 

inytliine  tonrr>one.!-tKmrKlioC"'fttWnJ"    ""-  '■^•™-'-     '^..^'™''.°.  -°-'~' 1 
lod  ihe  kins  in 


lEcIircd,'  Hut  ihb  pctiiioomg  wu 


giul  bmilia  once  ihook  tbit  cltr  wlih  their  diii- 

uiHis;  the  HfH  (doiilcd  the  Fnnch  inlci<.-n>i 

the  Malwui  Ihc  Spiolih.    It  wu  incuiriiw  shik 

p>  to  inlk  ihE  umti  Dl  BalDCna,  for  the 

li  wore  ihelr  luthcn  on  the  nghl  )i<k  of 

the  puty-hilred  of  the  two  freii   Jt»ti«n 


privmcd ;    when.   \o\    the  commoos  petitioned 

nimei,"  uyi  Hume,  *'  hy  which  «ch  ptfty  ilepo- 
Riinaled  iu  anlaEDnbt*  dircDTvr  the  viruLencf 
iiul  nncour  whicb  preiiUedi  (or  heikilet  fili- 
litn/r  jind  dHarrvr,  thb  jeiT  ii  lemvithk  foi 
hi'Lng  the  epoch  of  the  well-knowa  cplthett  if 
H'Ht  aiHl  Trrj,"  Theic  •illy  tcTmi  of  rrpnucb 
an  rtilL  preserved  imong  ut,  m  if  the  ptUadiiiin 
of  Bntlih  Ubenr  wn  guarded  by  thoc  evotic 
nJiim,  for  they  Ate  not  Bn£iiih,  which  the 
parties   >o   Ini-ldiouilr  beuow   on   each   other. 

fiicodi  oT  the  court  iwl  (be  advociln  of  UiKal 
■urcesioo,  vcTe  hj-  the  rcpublicin  pait^-  branded 

return  ctmid  find  no  otber  re^-encc  thin  by 
■pproprialinfE  to  the  cot'eEuntert  UH  the  reptiD> 

vasgc  of  KHiT  mtlk,  wkoae  Tirtue  ther  coiuidered 


feuib  and  n 

he  uid  10  divif 

Hlele  in  polili 

Ihe  protettuti  tt  fnaa  on  the  Kon 


great  pArtiea  lb  it  J. 
le  alKied  by  one  pi 


lockery  of  the  Purih 


that  appellation  which  Ibeic  «l 
intended  a*  a  reproach ;  of  tb 
Guilfki  and  the  aUbiUtmi,  Hut 

by  dcTiwry  or  oppTohriont  termi 
been  maned,  but  ibey  bare  ali 
and  pncliied  diitlnclin  minnc 
inp  did  i»t  luiy  endnre  lor  a  loi 


:u.lfl,j 


onn«  (hey  could  nol   agree  ;   (or  Ihe  GBtlfi 

downwards.  Cbitdren  were  taught  these  arti- 
ficei  of  Faetion'-^beir  hatreds  became  tradidonal, 
and  thus  Ibe  lUliam  perpelualed  Ibe  full  hcne- 
Aca  of  their  party^pirit,  from  generation  to  gene- 

witb°»me  m^ncky' ""t.  "«  »«ii-ed' in  lap- 
lilm,  but  more  deutiptive  and  ^cluresque  ;  and 

chrintming-     Malagrida  the  Jesuit  and  Jemmy 

oar  minislen  odious,  and  another  conlemplible. 
The  Barl  of  Godolphin  ought  inch  fire  ir  Ihal 
of  volpone,  that  it  drox'e  bim  into  Ibe  opposite 

Cy  for  Ibe  vindidiFe  purpoae  of  obtaining  that 
.  otitica]  proKculion  of  Sacbererell.  who  in  his 

unhickil^  it  bad  stuck  lo  him. 

dous  as  fortune;  "wroagSt  oppression,  the  re^l 


ballal,  a  mikltmr,  a  /aiAuR,    can  throw  i  ^ity 
Into  a  tumult,  and  shake  the  loundilions  o<  a 


411        DOMESTIC  LIFE  OF  A  POET:  SHESSTOSIE  VIXDXCATED.               \ 

tte  facts  ■  had  collected  seem  lo  me  to  open  a 
more  Important  view.    I  am  aware  how  liihtly 
Ibe  poetfcal  cbaracie.  of  Sms^Tos*  is  hekl  by 

poet  has  left  us  jil'  ieait"  one  eoem  of  unrivalled 
ori^nalily.     Mr.   Campbell   lus   regretted   that 

which  'gives  a  certain  air  of  masquerade  in  his 

■k  mial  awain  with  tKe  diKi^hi  of  venu/-     All 

a  poet,  powsilng  Ibe  charac'lerinics  of  poetry, 
but  as  a  creator  in  another  way,  for  which  1  claim 
Ihe  attention  of  ihe  reader.     1  have  fbrmed  a 

character,  and  wen:  productive  of  all  liis  unhappi- 
nciB,    The  neglect  he  incurred  in  thoie  poetical 
studies  to  which  he  had  deroted  hii  bop^.ii  his 

heloiedj  tbe  Tuinousslateufhhdomeuic  affairs, 
sriung  from  a  seducing  pauion  fi>r  creating  a  new 

film  to  have  becoSv  a  poUtlcalVrlter ;  fOr  wliicb 
his  inclinatlans  and.  It  is  sidd,  hii  talents  early  m 

mind,  show  sAiat  he  did,  and  what  be  was  eur- 

"w-Ey  ha"  Se "  BlegiH"  of  SuMitos.,  which 
Innj-  )-ear>  ago  formed  for  many  of  in  tbe  favourite 

tion.    They  form  a  scries  of  poetical  truths,  but 

standing  llie  paitonl  romance  In  which  the  puel 
has emelopei  hinHelf. Ihe  subjects  ate  nnl,  and 

i.-vnn  irf  a  tonn-poet,  no  more  tliin  Ihe  s.-nti- 
mem., .  hich  were  1n^pired  hv  N..tDR.  »henstone-s 
friend.  tlr.u«,  kho  knew  bW  esrty  In  life,  and 
to  hii  last  di>-s  Informs  us  Ihit  tbe<  Ele^es  were 
writtin  Khenie  had  taken  the  Leasoves  into  hi. 
own  han<U,  anil  tbouBb  hls/irt»  arw  en,;ued 

and  partly,  m\  will  be  >  pictn.«  of  ^HU 
p.i»vt  in  mv  own  mindi  a  portrait  which  friends 

m  .V  V  dm-.'-    This,  then,  i.  itT.crct  charm  which 
a.-f  •»  i.m  lid)  on  the  nnt  emolion.  of  our  youth. 

aff^ions  the  h™s  andtbe  ddi^  *lh'!ul  Ibe 

life  that  we  lose  the  lelisb  of  "oni  early  simplicity, 
and-thil  we  discover  that  Si»»to>»  was  nM 

These  glebes,  with  some  other  poemL  may  be 
lead  wilb  a  new  inlere«.  when  we  discover  tbem 
to  (hrm  the  true  Memoirs  of  Bhwitdns.    Be. 
cords  of  querulous,  bul  delightful  ieelingsl  wlioae 

which  will  inlerest  the  young  poet,  and  the  j-ouug 
lovetoflasle. 

is  eni!iied  "  Ophelia-s  Urn,"  and  il  wa.  no  unreal 
one  1     It  was  erected  bv   Crivei  in  Hickletn 
Church,  lolhe  mcmorjoran  eitnonlinary  young 

hoe  a  taste  for  litera.aie,  and  cimpoieJ  wilb  «ch 
elegance   in   vcTse   and   pmse.    Ihal   an   eiccUenl 
juiQiedcclaRd.  tbat  "he  did  not  like  to  forin  hii 

hers."    Graves  bad  been  long  attached  to  ber, 
but  Ihrnl  motives  of  prudence  %n>k<afl  an  inter- 
course ¥rilh  tills  intcreslini:  woman,  wlio  sunk 

prudent   lover.   Graves,  inscnhed   the  nn,  her 

WTillen  Inn4  after  her  death,  she  sliU  Yingen.-d  in 
Usnmloiiileuces.    Composing  this  Eleg)-  on  the 
ealamiluus  close   of  Bomerrille-.  life,  a  brother 
liaid,  ami  victim  to  narrow  eircumslances.  and 
whicb  he  proliably  contemplated  as  an  image  of 

used  to  read  Somerville-s  poems  lo  Ulricia  :— 
•■  Ob,  lost  Ophelia  ■  smoothly  HoWd  the  day 

To  liile  the  heauiies  of  bis  melting  liV, 
To  taitc.  and  fancy  it  waa  dear  to  Ttne  1" 
How  iTvc  is  the  filing  '■  how  mean  the  poetical 

llie  Seventh  Elep-  describei  a  vision,  where  the 
shadow  of  Woliey  Steaks  upon  Ihe  author : 
"  A  graceful  form  appeayd. 
White  w«e  his  loclii,  wiih  awfnl  scarhtl  crmm-d." 
Gven   Ihil  fancifnl  subkct  ■»  not  i^iosen  ca- 

s;;'ii!;";!i;'rcKSii.i"K?™;«",;i,.S"£r; 

have  made  a  moral  rellcclian,  which  we  find  in 
bis  •■esH>-s.'>    "How  melancholy  is  it  to  travel 
late  upon  any  ambitious  project  on  a  winter^ 
night,  and  otMerie  the  Ught  oTcottages.  where  all 

anne  before  him;  Ihe  vinmary  eardinal   enneH 

DOMESTIC  LIFE  OF  A  POET:  SBESSTOXE  VINDICATED. 


irice  M  power  kdiruicc, 
If  tbc   pocticAl   ipCCITC 


And  HBhinK,  nnnhM  in  Ibc  ih 


tbi  lubim  dI  Urn  Hltgv  ihn 
to  the  poel'i  liacr,  be  luu  hinueIC  cam 
nted  (he  indtlcBt  tlut  gire  occuioo  to  il 


'  On  distAar  healh*,  beneilh  tutunin*!  Aia 
Wcaiy  and  lilnt,  I  burd  tEe  Horm  arUe, 


Tbc  riftcenth  EJegr,  annpned  " 


■pol."^"  the  group 


The  Tenth  B^egy, "  Tn  FortunE,  lugEnlinE  bii 

cikt>nted"Plitonl  Billail,  In  ronr  pirli,"  ven 
aTike  produced  by  wbit  one  of  the  gre»t  TnimtRb 
Df  Dur  own  timet  bu  h  finelf  iudieated  when  be 

"  The  leiml  WDct  the  w<nld  ha  Derer  known  ) 
Wllill  on  the  weniy  rfighl  dawn'd  wiaiiM  day, 

In  1hL4  EJcgy.  Shinstoni  rcplnei  al  tbe  dl^pen- 
hifber  pta,  nor  that  the  compeli  hJm  to 


by  plaintlite  lore-K)D|ta  uid  elegiei  of  woe,  adapted 

poet.  The  aeoalbililr  of  thli  pwioci  toiA  enliie 
noBaaion  of  hn  bc^rt  Ibr  lanie  jtma,  anil  \t  waa 
Ed  panbicfRnnher  tbachefint  ikelcboiblaeibiui- 


tbit  it  ¥nii  hia  own  bnlt  that  be  did  not  accept 
the  bmd  of  the  Lidy  wbom  be  ao  tenderly  iDTcd  j 
bat  hb  iplrit  could  not  endure  to  be  ■  perpeluaL 
witDevof  her  degndalLnn  In  the  rank  of  nclety, 
byaainronaidenteunion  with  poetry  aibd  poverty. 
'nuE  tuch  wu  Ida  Diotire,  we  miy  Infer  froni  a 


eiciied  fa  oiher 
ncn,  perhipi,  conuder  me  In  thai  llgbl  entirely 


..... .    nurpnet  had  an  intention  of 

oFa  picture  of  BH»rrosihi[nielI,  of  which  IMdiley 
publiihcd  I  print  in  17H0,  tbe  follow  ing  energetic 

VDtf^  gilt  J 

"Tliu  piclun  belonei  Id  Maii  cuiLia,  giren 


the  aulboci  aiul  "Econamyj  a  Khapiody,  id- 

., . .,^  ,1,(1^  ffgjn  ,,,j  inia^nalion, 

•cliuUy  under  the  innaenceof 


a  iinndy  operate  on  the  juvenile  mind,  not  yet 
lutucedi  and  Ihui  we  haie  lUIKcienUy  iicer- 
ained  the  fv:t,  Bi  (he  poet  hinuelf  baa  exprcaaed 

t,  "IhalhedrewhiipicluTeifTnnilheipcit,  and  he 
iillTeTy  Knutaly  Ibeufectiona  he  rummunlcatei." 
AU  the  inxletlei  of  >  poetical  life  wm  early 
ruperienced  by  Bin»aTo«»,  He  Hut  puhllahed 
ORiejutenUe  pioductinni,  under  aveiy  oddiltle. 


414        DOMESTIC  LIFE  OF  A  POET:  8HEN8T0NE  VINDICATED. 


his  motto  of  Contentus  paucis  Uctoribut,  even 
Horace  himself  might  have  smiled  at,  for  it  only 
conceab  the  desire  of  every  poet,  who  pants  to 
deserve  many  !  But  when  ne  tried  at  a  more 
elaborate  poetical  labour,  "The  Judgment  of 
Hercules,"  it  failed  to  attract  notice.  He  hastened 
to  town,  and  he  beat  about  literary  coffiee-houses ; 
and  returned  to  the  country  from  the  chtac  of 
Fame,  weaned  without  having  started  it. 

"  A  breath  revived  him — but  a  breath  o'erthrew." 

Even  "The  Judgment  of  Hercules"  between 
Indolence  and  Industry,  or  Pleasure  and  Virtue, 
was  a  picture  of  his  own  feelings;  an  ar^iment 
drawn  from  his  own  reasonings,  indicatmg  the 
unccrtaint>'of  the  poet's  dubious  dispoution ;  who 
finally  lost  the  triumph  by  siding  with  Indolence, 
which  his  hero  obtained  by  a  directly  opporite 
course. 

In  the  following  year  begins  that  melancholy 
stndn  in  his  correspondence,  which  marks  the  dis- 
appointment of  the  man  who  had  staked  too  great 
a  quantity  of  his  happiness  on  the  poetical  die. 
This  was  the  critical  moment  of  life,  when  our 
character  is  formed  by  habit,  and  our  fate  is  de- 
cided by  choice.  Was  Shenrtonb  to  become  an 
active,  or  contemplative  being  ?  Ho  yielded  to 
Nature  !♦  . 

It  was  now  that  he  entered  into  another  species 
of  poetr>-,  working  with  too  costly  materials,  in 
the  magical  composition  of  plyits,  water,  and 
earth;  with  these  he  created  those  emotions, 
which  his  more  strictly  poetical  ones  failed  to 
excite.    He  planned  a  paradise  amidst  his  solitude. 

When  we  consider  that  Shenston'E,  in  de- 
veloping his  fine  pastoral  ideas  in  the  Leasowes, 
educated  the  nation  into  that  taste  for  landscape- 
gardening  which  has  become  the  model  of  all 
Europe,  this  itself  constitutes  a  claim  on  the 
gratitude  of  posterit}'.  Thus  the  private  pleasures 
of  a  man  of  genius  may  become  at  length  those  of 
a  whole  people.  The  creator  of  this  new  taste 
appears  to  have  received  far  less  notice  than  he 
merited.  The  name  of  Shknstonk  does  not 
appear  in  the  Essay  on  Gardening,  by  Lord  Or- 
ford :  even  the  supercilious  Gray  only  oestowed  a 
ludicrous  ima^  on  these  pastoral  scenes,  which, 
however,  his  fhend  Mason  has  celebrated ;  and  the 

upon  various  Occasions,  written  for  the  Enter- 
tainment of  the  Author,  and  printed  for  the 
Amusement  of  a  few  Friends,  prejudiced  in  his 
Favour."  Oxford,  1737,  lamo. — Nash's  History  of 
Worcestershire,  Vol.  I.  p.  588. 

I  find  this  notice  of  it  in  W.  Lowndes's  Cata- 
logue ;  the  prices  are  amusing !  4433  Shenstone 
(W.)  Poems,  3/.  13/.  bit. — (Shenstone  took  uncom- 
mon pains  to  suppress  this  book,  by  collecting 
and  destro)ing  copies  wherc\*er  he  met  with 
them.) — In  Longman's  Bibliotheca  Anglo-Poetica, 
it  is  valued  at  15/.  Oa^.  1737 ! 

*  On  this  subject  Graves  makes  a  very  useful 
observation.  "  In  this  decision  the  happiness  of 
Mr.  Shenstone  was  materially  concerned.  U'hether 
he  determined  wisely  or  not,  people  of  taste  and 
people  of  worldly  prudence  will  probably  be  of 
very  different  opinions."  I  somewhat  suspect  that 
"  people  of  worldly  prudence  "  are  not  half  die 
fools  that  "  people  of  taste  "  insist  they  are. 


genius  of  Johnson,  incap«dtated  by  natne  to 
touch  on  objects  of  rural  fancy,  after  dcKifting 
some  of  the  offices  of  the  landscape  desigDcr,  addL 
that  "  he  will  not  inquire  wfaetner  tt£f  denni 
any  great  powers  of  mind."  Jcbnson,  hovcfcr, 
conx*eys  to  us  hb  own  feelings,  when  he  iamt- 
diately  expresses  them  under  the  chincta  of 
"a  sullen  and  surly  speculator.**  The  aaaooi 
life  of  Shenstone  would  indeed  hare  been  itnm- 
nerated,  could  he  have  read  the  enchanting  cnk^ 

gium  of  WuEATLEY  ou  the  Leasowes;  whia,nM 
e,  *'is  a  perfect  picture  of  his  inind—siiDpk^ 
elegant,  and  amiable ;  and  will  always  rnggan  a 
doubt  whether  the  spot  inspired  Kb  verse,  or 
whether,  in  the  scenes  which  be  formed,  beoaly 
realised^e  pastoral  images  which  aboond  in  hb 
songs."  Yes!  SHBNrroNE  had  been  ddigbled 
could  he  have  heard  that  Montesquacn,  oa  bb 
return  home,  adorned  his  *' Chateau  Gotfaiqiic, 
mab  omcs  cle  bob  charmans,  clont  j'ai  prb  Vkidt 
en  Angleterre ;"  and  Shenstone,  eveu  with  ha 
modest  and  timid  nature,  had  been  prood  to  hare 
witnessed  a  noUe  foreigner,  amidst  memoiiab 
dedicated  to  Theocrittis  and  Virgil,  to  Thomsoa 
and  Gesner,  raising  in  his  grounds  an  inscriptioo, 
in  bad  English,  but  in  pure  taste,  to  Shenstomb 
himself;  for  havine  displayed  in  his  writings  "a 
mind  natural,"  and  in  nb  Leasowes  **  laid  Arca- 
dian greens  rural ;"  and  recently  Pindemoote  has 
traced  the  taste  of  English  gardening  to  ftnii* 
STONE.  A  man  of  genius  sometimes  receires  horn 
foreigners,  who  are  placed  out  of  the  prejadtces  of 
his  compatriots,  the  tribute  of  posterity  I 

Amidst  these  rural  elef^mdes  which  SREnsron 
was  raiung  about  him,  hb  muse  hai  patbcticdy 
sung  bb  melancholy  feelings — 

"  But  did  the  Muses  haunt  hb  cell. 
Or  in  his  dome  did  Venus  dwell  ? — 
When  all  the  structures  shone  complete. 
Ah  me  1  'twas  Damon's  own  confesMon, 
Came  Poverty-,  and  took  possession." 

The  Proorsss  or  Taste. 

The  poet  observes,  that  the  wants  of  philosopby 
are  contracted,  satbtied  with  "cheap  amteat- 
ment,"  but 

"  Taste  alone  requires 
Entire  profusion !  days  and  nights,  and  houn. 
Thy  voice,  hydropic  Fancy !  calb  aloud 

For  costly  draughts ." 

Economy. 

An  original  image  illustrates  that  fatal  want  of 
economy  which  conceab  itself  amiibt  the  bcaotifal 
appearances  of  taste ; 

"  Some  graceless  mark. 
Some  symptom  ill<onceard,  shall  soon  or  late 
Burst  like  a  pimple  from  the  vicious  tide 
Of  add  blood,  proclaiming  want's  disease 
Amidst  the  bloom  of  show.** 

Economy. 
He  paints  himself : 

**  Observe  FkMclio's  mien ; 
Why  treads  my  friend  with  mdancholy  step 
That  beauteous  lawn  ?  Why  pensive  strays  his  e)-t 
O'er  statues,  erottoes,  urns,  by  critic  art 
Proportion'd  uir  ?  or  from  hb  lofty  dome 
Returns  hb  eye  unpleaaed,  disconsolate  ?" 


>H." 


•i|P9w«r> 


I  I'f'Mf.STK  I.!FK  OF  A   r-'FT:  . 


tS 


fomp  to  >l^?c1.  Bud  Beauty  to  dupLcue." 

"  And  hfltine  iluiwii  them  wbrre  to  uny, 
Tfarew  litllc  pcbbLa  in  Ibcir  way  ;" 

to  compcne  mamm  uid  lUcripLion*  for  vudcn- 


c»pc-sirdcniBp,  our  lulhor  ptiDU  ha  liiuilioi 


Tul^«.*  IV:nAin  vrhD  will  dcipM  yon  tor  the 
maat  of  »  EWhI  Kt  of  chvnip  or  tn  unroulh  hrc- 
■baiel,  at  the  lame  tint  thil  tbcy  cu'I  tatc  my 

nitli  wbam  il  it  in  (aia  that  your  mind  U  ^r- 
nbhcd.  a  the  Willi  w  lukrd ;  indeed  one  hiHi 


L  oDir  aiHl  Ihcii  iiDpcUcd  by  the  ■ 
-  -■-•--■■--  "---irln  my  kilcben." 

I  (TicDib  and  Ihe  &t 


tomcrtille,  ■  neiithbour  tai  ■  {net,  i 
pclkd  BHtBiioM  lo  lun  imiait  hk  ._ 

klnilly  hinted  lo  me  abgul  Iwelie  o'lrlock,  at  the 
reaihen.)— I  ifaould   nrtfcnih—l  wiU— but   you 


anihor  pev  daily  mnrr  indf^^nl  uuJ  tedencarv, 
and  vitbdrHvlnjE  himielf  enlirel^  inia  hh  own 
benniiaiee,  moaned  and  dopaired  m  that  Arcadian 
•olitude,*    The  crki  and  Ihe  "  leiriK  •amm  "  of 

LipLand  year  which  hai  no  lummrr,  he  nennilltd 

reduced,  when  he  (huaddreiBrd  hiahiend: 

"  I  Hipi>oae  yew  have  been  informed  thai  mv 
fever  was  in  ■  great  meaiurc  hypn-hondriacaf, 

OD  DO  vcn  jnteraUng  ■□bjec:t«,  I  Eonld  readily 
lUtit  m)Hff  *<■»  a  I'lriifi  I  I  had  ibno«  uid  an 

The  Icaluns  of  Ihb  ud  imnraii  are  more  paiti- 


lo  da.  I  am  mtniTeiy  fdeaaed  (llnuRh  il  ii  ■ 
filoomy  jo>)  wirh  Ihe  appllralinn  of  Vt.  SniFi'i 
compUiul  ■'  Ihn  be  )•  forced  to  die  in  a  raee,  hke 
■  po'noned  ral  in  a  bnlu.-    Ky  Kid  ii  no  mon 


the  DinlrTHvd  Ancharct." 


r 


416 


SECRET  HISTORY  OF  THE  BUTLDING  OF  BLENHEIM, 


1 


whole  train  of  h>'pochondriacal  symptoms,  there 
was  notbint;  to  cheer  the  querulous  author,  who 
with  half  the  consciousness  of  genius,  lived  aeg- 
lected  and  unpatronised. — His  elegant  mind  had 
not  the  force,  by  its  productions,  to  draw  the 
celebrity  he  sighed  after  to  his  hermitage. 

Shbnstone  was  so  anxious  for  his  literary  cha- 
racter, that  he  contemplated  on  the  posthumous 
fame  which  he  might  derive  from  the  publication 
of  his  Letters  :  see  Letter  LXXIX.,  011  hearing  his 
Utters  to  Mr.  lyhistUr  tvere  destroyed.  The  act  of 
a  merchant,  his  brother,  who  being  a  very  sensible 
man,  as  Graves  describes,  yet  with  the  stupidity  of 
a  Goth,  destroyed  the  ^vhole  correspondence  of 
Shenstonctfor  "  its  sentimenteU  intercourse." — Shin- 
STONB  bitterly  regrets  the  loss,  and  says,  "  I  would 
have  given  more  money  for  the  letters  than  it  is 
allowable  for  me  to  mention  with  decency.  I 
look  upon  my  letters  as  some  of  my  ch^  d'aeuvres 
— they  are  the  history  of  my  mind  lor  these  twenty 
years  past."  This,  with  the  loss  of  Cowle>'*s  cor- 
respondence, should  have  been  presen-ed  in  the 
article  "  Of  Supprenors  and  Dilapidators  of  Manu- 
scripts." 

Towards  the  close  of  life,  when  hb  spirits  were 
exhausted,  and  the  "silly  clue  of  hopes  and  ex- 
pectations," as  he  termed  them,  was  undone,  the 
notice  of  some  persons  of  rank  began  to  reach 
him.  Shesstonb,  however,  deeply  colours  the 
variable  state  of  his  own  mind — "  Recovering  from 
a  nen-ous  fever,  as  I  have  since  discovered  by 
many  concurrent  symptoms,  I  seem  to  anticipate 
a  little  of  that  "vernal  delight"  which  Milton 
mentions  and  thinks 

* able  to  chase 

All  sadness,  but  despair ' — 

at  least  I  begin  to  resume  my  silly  clue  of  hopes 
and  expectations." 

In  a  former  letter  he  had,  however,  given  them 
up :  "I  begin  to  wean  myself  from  all  hopes  and 
expectations  whatever.  I  feed  my  wild  ducks, 
and  I  water  mv  carnations.  Happy  enough  if  I 
could  extinguish  my  ambition  quite,  to  indul^ 
the  de&ire  of  being  something  more  beneficial  m 
my  sphere. — Perhaps  some  few  other  circumstances 
would  want  also  to  be  adjusted." 

What  were  these  "  hopes  and  expectations," 
from  which  sometimes  he  weans  himself,  and 
which  are  perpetually  revived,  and  are  attributed 
to  "an  ambition  he  cannot  extinguish?"  This 
article  has  been  written  in  vain,  if  the  reader  has 
not  already  perceived,  that  they  had  haunted  him 
in  early  lire ;  sickening  his  spirit  after  the  posses- 
sion of  a  poetical  celebrity,  unattainable  by  his 
genius;  some  expectations  too  he  might  have 
cherished  from  the  talent  be  possessed  for  political 
studies,  in  which  Graves  confidently  says,  that 
"  he  would  have  made  no  inconsiderable  hp;ure,  if 
he  had  had  a  sufTicient  motive  for  applying  his 
mind  to  them."  Shbnstone  has  left  several  proof^ 
of  this  talent.*  But  his  master-passion  for  literary 
fame  had  produced  little  more  tnan  anxieties  and 
disappointments  ;  and  when  he  indulged  his  pas- 
toral fancy  in  a  beautiful  creation  in  his  grounds, 

*  See  his  Letters  XL.  and  XLI.  and  more  par- 
ticulariy  XLII.  and  XUn.  with  a  new  theory  of 
political  principles, 


il  consumed  the  estate  it  adomrd.  Jcbnaoii  lu> 
cibly  expressed  his  situation :  "  Hb  death  was  j/tth 
bably  hastened  by  his  anxieties.  He  was  a  lamp 
that  spent  its  oil  in  blazing.  It  b  said,  that  U  be 
had  lived  a  little  longer  he  would  have  bcei 
assisted  by  a  pension." 


♦w 


■••^ 


P'^J». 


SECRET  HISTORY  OF  HTHB  BUILDmO  OT 
BLENHEIM. 

The  secret  history  of  thb  national  edifice  doira 
importance  from  its  nature,  and  the  retnarkabk 
characters  it  involved  in  the  unparalleled  traanc* 
tion.  The  great  architect  when  obsti acted  b 
the  progress  of  his  work,  by  the  irregular  pqr* 
ments  of  the  workmen,  appears  to  have  practiK^ 
one  of  hb  own  comic  plots  to  put  the  dd)ls  oa 
the  hero  himself;  while  the  duke,  who  hai  it 
much  at  heart  to  inhabit  the  palace  of  hb  fiuac^ 
but  tutored  into  weariness  under  the  vigilant  aad 
fierce  eye  of  Atos&a  would  neither  approve  nor 
disapprove,  silently  looked  on  in  hope  aad  ia 
grief,  from  year  to  year,  as  the  work  proceeded, 
or  as  it  was  left  at  a  stand.  At  lengtn  we  find 
this  comidie  larmoyante  wound  up  by  the  dndiesi 
herself,  in  an  attempt  utterly  to  ruin  the  ennged 
and  insulted  architect  !* 

Perhaps  this  is  the  fint  time  that  it  was  resolved 
in  parliament  to  rai^e  a  public  monument  of  ^ory 
and  gratitude — to  an  individual !  The  novelty 
of  the  attempt  may  serve  as  the  only  excuse  fcr 
the  loose  arrangements  which  followeu  after  pulia- 
ment  had  approved  of  the  design,  without  voting 
any  specific  supply  for  the  purpose  I  The  qneea 
always  issued  the  orden  at  her  own  expense,  and 
commanded  expedition ;  and  while  Anne  lived, 
the  expenses  of  the  building  were  included  in  her 
majesty's  debts,  as  belonging  to  the  civil  list 
sanctioned  by  parliament. 

I  When  George  the  First  came  to  the  throne, 
the  parliament  declared  the  debt  to  be  the  debt 
of  the  queen,  and  the  king  granted  a  privy  seal 
as  for  other  debts.  The  crown  and  the  parlia- 
ment had  hitherto  proceeded  in  perfect  unioo 
respecting  this  national  edifice.  However,  I  find 
that  the  workmen  were  greatly  in  arrears;  for 
when  George  the  Tirst  ascended  the  throne,  tbey 
gladly  accepted  a  third  part  of  their  several  debts  I 

The  great  architect  found  himself  amidst  in- 
extricable difficulties.  With  the  fertile  invention 
which  amuses  in  his  comedies,  he  contrived  an 
extraordinary  scheme,  by  which  he  proposed  to 
make  the  duke  hinoself  responsible  for  the  build- 
ing of  Blenheim  I 

However  much  the  duke  longed  to  see  the 
magnificent  edifice  concluded,  he  showed  the 
same  calm  intrepidity  in  the  building  <tf  Blen- 
heim as  he  had  in  its  field  of  action.  Aware 
that  if  he  himself  gave  any  order,  or  suggested 
any  alteration,  he  might  be  involved  in  the  ex- 
pense of  the  building,  he  was  never  to  be  cir- 


*  I  draw  the  materials  of  thb  secret  history  from 
an  unpublished  "  Case  of  the  Duka  of  Marlborough 
and  Sir  John  Vanbrugh,"  as  also  from  some  confi- 
dential correspondence  of  Vanbrugh  with  Jacob 
Tonson,  his  friend  and  publbher. 


mm 


SECRET  HISTORY  OF  THE  BVILDTSa  OF  BLENHEIM^ 


tnto  conccmlioo  wilb  the  irchl 
Mend)  or  with  ny  one  uUng  ui 


dnkei  when  tbrowl  i 


Lord  GodokpbiD  Co  get  ifiii  inwiDtmcnt  doei  not 
Appear — hli  lordship  prot'ablj'  conceived  it  wv 
lueful,  ind  tniriit  Aiant  in  expcditlDa  the  grett 
work,  Ihe  Cinitiiite  objecl  or  the  hen>.    TThii 


and  Ibe  paymena  urilb  the  umc  IrregulAtitf ;  the 


hjd  hitheno  received  whit  wai  oiled  "ctmrn 

ment— and  Ibcy  now  glidlv  abated  a  third  of 
their  piicei.     Bat  ibough  tlie  duke  bid  onder- 

AlteritioQ  m  tbe  claimi  on  the  Treaaon,    Blen' 
heim  was  to  be  baiil  for  HarlboTDugn,  not  by 

to  Ibeir  hero,  not  a  palace  to  be  built  by  tbeit 

million  wa»  tlowly  Impairing  and  the  Treaaury 
more  and  more  involved,  1  cannot  cell  i  but  In 


if  poBlble  VaifBHVOH  may  lulfer  more  cban  he 
tally  n«1ca  Ui  own  -■-• ■' 


Ihe  arcbitecC  toddenly 


The  plciabLe  bbtory  of  thit  magnlfieent 
tnent  d(  public  gratitude,  from  Iti  bc^i 
it  given  by  VAHaauOH  in  hli  depoaiUon 


"as 


:t  repreienn  himself  a« 

!  a  modd,  wb! 
m^ieity  kept  in 

>f 'Mr  Tnven,  Ihe  qi 


from  theTreaiuiy  that  the  workmen  grew  un* 
euyi  Ihal  the  work  wu  stopped,  lilX  further 
ordcn  of  money  from  Ihe  Treaauiy ;  that  the 
queen  Iben  ordered  enough  to  secure  il  from 


Funher  nipply  i.a/in  a  atp  pM  »  (i  *.  in  4i.iliisi-i 
trdif]^  they  went  on  and  incurred  the  present 


Daring  the  uncertain  progres  of  the  building, 
and  while  the  workmen  were  alien  In  deep  am-ars, 

involve  the  Marlborou^uTn  its  fate  and  hiiownj 
be  probably  thought  that  some  of  Iheir  round  mil- 
lion might  beat  to  be  chipped,  la  liniih  hit  gicil 


tnliy  1 


disclaimed  by  Marlborough  i  the  duke  declares 
il  enisled  without  his  knowledge;  and  Itiat  if 
lucb  an  itislTuineDI  for  ■  monjent  was  to  be  held 

Tbe  queen  be  bad  not  found  diflicult  to  manage  i 
but  after  her  death,  when  the  Treasury  biled  iu 

contrive  how  to  make  Che  duke  Che  great  debtor. 
VANiacioH  swean  that  " He  hlmselriooked  upon 
Ibe  emwn,  as  engaged  lo  ibe  Duke  of  Mirl- 
borongh  for  the  eipensei  but  that  he  belie^-cs 

their  paymaster."    He  idvancet  so  far,  at  to  swear 


r  opposite  his  dcpcnilioni 


SECRET  HISTORY  OF  THE  BUILDISQ  OF  BLESBEIM. 

without  the  punl<h 


man  cooid  do^"     He  w  maiuetd,  (hou^  he  hm 

one  viy,  flud  the  natural  tendency  of  another 

Sirt  prenei  the  dirart   conlnp'  waj .     In  bb 
sriner  mcmoTiil,  rhe  nuin  de^i^n  wu  to  djien- 
S^  the  duke  from  the  debt;   id  hii  dep«ilion», 
c  main  doigu  wai  to  cbutfe  the  duke  with  the 
debt.    Vahmuch,  ll  mull  6e  confncd,  cicrted 
DM  k«  of  bn  dnmitic,  thin  hii  itchitecluial 
gonial,  iD  the  bnUding  of  Blenheim  f 
"  The  CaK  "  eoMlndra  with  la  tloqnent  reflee- 

Run  oT  gcDiu^^  tibsiigh  not,  in  tlid  predicament, 
thi'  man  ol  honour.  ■■  If  K  Ian  the  diaree  run 
into  by  order  of  the  eruvn  mutt  be  upon  the 
duke,  yet  the  inbmy  of  it  mp*t  eo  upon  another, 


There  l»  a  curiuui  bcl  in  tlie  depn>iliont  of 
rAKMidii,  bv  which  we  miitit  ioHr  ihal  Ihe  idea 
•f  Bknhcim  Houie  mlKhl  lute  orii^nilei  with 


kc. ;  hut  11 WB  the  queen  who  ordered  Uk  premi 
bnuw  to  he  bulH  with  lU  eipeditioo.- 

The  whole  conduct  of  tbh  niiioDal  cdiKce  wn 
oawoTtby  of  Ibe  nafion,  if  in  truth  the  Diition 
eicr  eahncd  heartily  Into  il.  Ko  ipeclGc  mm  had 
tac«  toted  in  piiliaincnl  lor  lo  enai  an  umler- 
taklntf;  vtuch  iflerwirdi  vu  ine  occuton  of 
Involving  all  the  patlin  concerned  in  Irouble  and 
lifiiolion,  threjiened  the  ruin  of  the  nclUlevI, 
and  I  think  we  ihall  lee,  by  Vikhich'i  kitcn, 
waa  liniihcd  at  Ihe  »le  chaiw,  and  even  under 
the  niperimendence,  of  the  duche^  faerwlf  I    II 

monument  cii  fiory  did  not  rather  o^ginale  in  the 
apirit  of  party,  in  the  un^enl  de^lic  «  the  i|ncen 
III  allay  the  pnde  andjealomicf  of  the  MarlbofDl^[ll^- 

dcfigned  to  have  a  houv 
fore  liienheiin  h>-l  been 


planalinm  mi^i  lem  to  kl»  into  Ihe  bewiUcr 

KR-crratinn  for  wbicbTW  WM  B  much  'ablBBl  11 

architect,  and  condemned  tor  nterllT  in  Ibi 
roUIilc  bictiineii  of  Lurd  Oiinti,  a(Klu»  b  lef 
for  ut  hut  lo  luliei  OUTOWD  conviclkm— l^bebdd 

minoua  corretjiondence  1'*  a\b\  Ihe  historian  d 
war  and  pohiici  mYrtcoki  wilii  contnnpl  the  litUi 

"  a  toluminoui  ccirTcuHudence  "  wldch  indicate 
»  much,  and  on  which  not  a  aoiilar)'  idea  i 

Uf  Ihii'quamI  between  the  bmcuidnch^  am 
Ja>ob  Tonwn.     There  win  an  eijoalily  ol  Ibi 


aptitude,  contrived    a  counterplot  to   tun  the 

BItle  hopea  of  ever  getting  il,  near  aoool.  due  to 

at  Blenheim',  which  that  wickeTwoman  of '  Marl- 


Ibem  upon  me,  for  which  1  tlunk  the  ougbr  to  he 


Eahh  of  Ihe  Marlbumugiha,  with  a  caunic  louch 

"The  Duke  of  Marlhurough'i  Ireaanrc  exceed* 
'  — ' — ragant  gueas.    The  grJiul  tctlle- 


SECRET  HISTORT  OF  SIR  WALTER  RAWLEIGH. 


419 


thickened,  with  the  nuficiousocai  of  Puck,  and 
die  haoghtlncaB  of  an  Kmpreas  of  Blenheim,  in- 
rented  the  most  cra^-1  insolt  that  ever  architect 
endured ! — 90  perfectly  characteristic  of  that  extra- 
acd{nar7  woman.  Vakbrcoh  went  to  Blenheim 
with  his  lady,  in  a  company  from  Castle  Howard, 
that  other  magnificent  monument  of  his  singular 
(cuius. 

**  We  staid  two  nights  in  Woodstock ;  but  there 
was  an  order  to  t&  seT\'ant8,  under  her  grmc^t 
wwm  hand,  tut  to  let  me  enter  BUnheim  !  and  lest 
that  ibottid  not  mortify  nne  enou^,  she  having 
somehow  learned  that  my  nv\fe  was  of  the  com- 
pany, JTMl  an  exfreu  the  nighl  before  ttfe  tame 
there,  with  orders  that  if  ^  came  with  the  Castle 
Hovrard  LacUes,  the  serrants  should  not  suffer  her 
to  see  either  house,  Eardens,  or  even  to  enter  the 
park :  so  she  was  forced  to  sit  all  day  long  and 
keep  me  company  at  the  inn !" 

Tiib  was  a  coup  4e  thidtre  in  this  joint  comedy 
of  Atossa  and  Vanbruch  !  The  architect  of  Blen- 
heim, lifting  his  eyes  towards  his  own  masive 
grandeur,  exiled  to  a  dull  inn,  and  imprisoned 
with  one  who  re({uired  rather  to  be  consoled, 
than  capable  of  conM>ling  the  enraged  architect ! 

In  1735,  ATOMA,  still  pursuing  her  hunted  pre>', 
bad  driven  it  to  a  spot  which  she  flattered  herself 
would  inclose  it  with  the  security  of  a  preservatory. 
Thb  produced  the  following  explosion  1 

"  I  have  been  forced  into  chancery  by  that 
B.  B.  B.  the  Duchess  of  Marlborourii,  where  she 
has  got  an  injunction  upon  me  by  tier  friend  the 
late  good  chancellor  (Barl  of  Macclesfield),  who 
declared  that  I  was  never  employed  by  the  duke, 
and  therefore  had  no  demand  upon  h'is  estate  for 
my  services  at  Blenheim.  Since  my  hands  were 
thus  tied  up  from  trying  by  law  to  recover  my 
arrear,  I  have  prevaile'd  with  Sir  Robert  Walpole 
f«  help  me  in  a  scheme  vfhUh  I  proposed  Is  Aim, 
by  whkh  I  got  my  money  in  spite  ttf  the  hussy's 
teeth.  My  carrying  this  point  enrages  her  much, 
and  the  more  because  it  is  of  considerable  weight 
in  my  small  fortune,  which  she  has  heartily  en- 
deavoured so  to  de^roy  as  to  throw  me  into  an 
English  bastile,  there  to  finish  my  days,  as  /  began 
them,  in  a  French  one." 

Plot  for  plot !  and  the  superior  claims  of  one  of 
practised  invention  are  vindicated!  The  writer, 
long  accustomed  to  comedy-writing,  has  excelled 
the  self-taught  genius  of  Atossa.  The  "  schente  " 
by  which  Vanbri'GH's  fertile  invention,  aided 
by  Sir  Robert  Walpole,  finally  circumvented  the 
avaricious,  the  hau^ty,  and  the  capricious  Atossa, 
remains  untold,  unless  it  is  alluded  to  by  the 
passage  in  Lord  Orford's  *'  Anecdotes  of  Painting," 
where  he  informs  us,  that  **  the  duche^  quarrelled 
with  Sir  John  and  went  to  Uw  with  him ;  but 
though  he  prwed  to  be  in  the  right,  or  rather 
because  he  pro%'ed  to  be  in  the  right,  she  employed 
Sir  Chri»tophcr  Wren  to  build  the  house  in' St. 
Jamev's  Park." 

I  have  to  add  a  curious  discovery  respecting 
Vanbrvch  himself,  which  explains  a  circumstance 
in  his  life  not  hitherto  understood. 

In  all  the  biographies  of  Vanbhugh,  from  the 
time  of  Gibber's  Lives  of  the  Poets,  the  early  part 
of  the  life  of  this  man  of  genius  remains  unknown. 
It  is  said  he  descended  from  an  ancient  family 
in  Cheshire,  which  came  originally  from  France, 


though  yf  the  name,  whidi  properly  written 
j  would  be  yan  Brugh,  he  would  appear  to  he  of 
Dutch  extraction.  A  tale  is  univerully  repealed, 
I  that  Sir  John  once  vniting  France  in  the  prose- 
cution of  hu  architectural  studies,  while  takin  -  - 
suney  of  some  fortifications,  excited  alarm,  nd 
was  carried  to  the  Bastile ;  where,  to  deepen  the 
interest  of  the  stor>-,  he  sketched  a  variety  ..f 
comedies,  which  he  must  have  communicated  to 
the  gmemor,  who,  whispering  it  doubtless  as  an 
aflfair  of  sUte  to  several  of  the  nobleise,  these 
admirers  of  "  sketches  of  comedies" — English  ones 
no  doubt—procured  the  release  of  this  Engli^ 
Moliere.  Tnis  tale  is  further  confirmed  by  a  very 
odd  circumstance.  Sir  John  built  at  Greenwich,  en 
a  spot  still  called  *'  Vanbru^h's  Fields,"  two  whim- 
sical houses ;  one  on  the  Mde  of  Greenwich  Park 
b  still  called  "the  Jastile-HouK,"  built  on  its 
model,  to  commemorate  this  impriwnment. 

Not  a  word  of  this  detailed  story  is  probably 
true  !  that  the  Bastile  was  an  object  which  vimc- 
times  occupied  the  imagination  of  our  arcliitect, 
is  probable  ;  for,  bv  the  letter  we  have  just  (luoted, 
we  discover  from  nimbvlf  the  singular  incident  of 
Vanbrvgh's  having  been  born  in  tU  BastiU. 

Desirous,  probabU ,  of  concealing  his  alien  origin, 
thb  circumstance  cast  his  early  da>s  into  obsi  urit\ . 
He  felt  that  he  was  a  Briton  in  all  respects,  hut 
that  of  his  singular  birth.  Tbe  ancestor  tf  Van- 
BBCCM,  who  was  of  Cheshire,  said  to  be  of  Fienih 
extraction,  though  with  a  Dutch  name,  married 
Sir  Dudley  Carleton's  daughter.  We  are  told  he 
had  "  political  connexions ;"  and  one  of  his  "  p<.- 
litical"  tours  had  probably  occasioned  his  contine- 
ment  in  that  state-dungeon,  where  his  lady  was 
delivered  of  her  burthen  of  love.  The  odd  'fancy 
of  building  a  "  Bastile-House  "  at  Greenwich,  a 
fortified  prison !  suggested  to  his  first  life-w  ritcr 
the  fine  romance ;  which  must  now  be  thrown 
aside  among  these  literary  fictions  the  French  dis- 
tinguish by  the  softening;  and  yet  impudent  term 
of  "  Anecdotes  haxardees,"  with  which  formerly 
Varillas  and  hb  imitators  furnished  their  pages ; 
lies  which  looked  like  facts  1 


SECRET  HISTORY  OF  SIR  WALTER 
RAWLEIGH. 

Rawlbigh  exercised  in  perfection  incompatible 
talents,  and  his  character  connects  the  opposite 
extremes  of  our  nature  1  His  "  book  of  life,"  with 
its  incidents  of  prosperity  and  adversity,  of  ^lory 
and  humiliation,  was  as  chequered  as  the  novelist 
would  desire  for  a  tale  of  fiction.  Yet  in  this 
mighty  ^'nius  there  lies  an  un<mspected  di>|Kisi- 
tion,  which  requires  to  be  demonstrated,  before  it 
is  powihle  to  conceive  its  reality.  Irom  lu^  cirlicNt 
days  he  betrayed  the  genius  of  an  aUimiutti, 
which  prevailed  in  his  cn.ir.iclcr  to  the  latcM  ;  ami 
it  often  involved  him  in  the  practice  of  mc.m 
artifices  and  petty  deception<i ;  which  appear  like 
folly  in  the  wisdom  of  a  %a){e ;  like  inaptitude  in 
the  profound  views  of  a  politician  ;  like  cowardice 
in  the  magnanimity  of  a  hero ;  and  degrade  bv 
their  httleness  the  grandeur  of  a  character  which 
was  closed  by  a  splendid  death,  worthv  the  life  uf 
the  wisest  and  the  greatest  of  mankind  I 


t  ■- I  ' 


■-«-*■ 


■'■'■W  J*ll  ■  H   ■■II  J      .•*•  %• 


*"<  J  I  .l«ll«   J'J'" 


no  SECRET  HTSTORi   OF  SIR   WALTER  RiWLElQff. 

The  luiubine  of  hit  lUyi  i 

L  ibrmtd  bf  utu 

3k  moinent  he  with  nxb  Infinite  trt'cut  hit  lie 
niMiU^  orer  th:;  mirjr  ,-;-ot,  bii  life  mi  ,i  pcagn 
of  gtory.    All  tbom  Rawleigh  wu  tplendid  ■:  U 

— , rie  q - 

peanrioDi  of  rewanl,  onlj  r 


ihjecM  ibr  Ihe   "F»eiie  QuKn"   of  gpen 
ranrioDi  of  rewanl,  onlj  recompensed  her  ■■- 

,jun(e*  by  uiaeTiiig  ihcm  to  mike  theiT  <m 
fortunaon  kCK  and  Upd|  jind  Elluhelh  lirtcned 
to  the  ^wine  prQ)ecti  of  her  hero,  indulging 
fhit  ipinl  Thicb  could  have  cDnqoered  the 
world,  to  hire  kin  the  toy  U  the  i«t  of  the 


leroecIiDg  folly  and  cowardice,  and  attempting  I 
ibtaip  by  cJTcuitoiu  deception,  what  it  may  I 
opposed  to  maRianiniani  a  ^rlt  would  on, 
leign  ta  poaeit  nimtelf  of  by  direct  and  ope 


it  appean,  that  teeing  tbe  f^neen  pasting  by. 


ttyb  be  talked  of  bit  royal  inistTcit,  and  hi 

cDlouringi  hat  been  mott  etahnn 

tbdr  royal  mlttTeta^  wbo  c«uld  doi 
leased  tbla  tender  prtsoner  1  To 
the  iaventiofl  oif  Rawiei^  bimiel 


It  al  bei 


main.  In  tbe  idlenesi  ol  peace  could  enuilly  direct 

1  have  been  anticipated  in  the  dticloiure  of  tbe 

fact,  tbougb  not  of  its  nature,  was  what  Sir  Toby 

e«r)-day  life,  in  hit  project  of  "  tn  office  for  ad- 

Nattben  obscnnly  alludet  to  in  hit  lelten,  of 

dren.-    Nothing  w>>  too  high  Ibr  bii  ambition. 

"  the  guilty  blow  be  gave  himself  in  tbe  Towet  ;- 

1  passage  which  had  long  eidted  my  tnentioB, 
tilTnlscoveted  the  cu^oua  incident  in  .ami 

and  a  student,  Kawkioh  wai  at  intent  on  fomi- 
ing  tbe  cbiisctet  of  Frince  Henn  u  that  prince 

manuieripl  letten  of  Lord  Cecil.  Rawleigb  was 
then  cou^ned  in  the  Tower  lor  the  Cohham  <». 

was  tlndiout  of  ntouMIng  bis  own  uplrlDg  quali. 

net  hy  the  geniut  of  the  friend  .bom  be  con- 

templated.    Yet  the  active  life  ol  RawHigb  it 

which,  so  many  yean  alter.  Rawleigb  craeUy  loa 

He  may  well  tank  among  the  founJen  of  our 

hit  life. 

little  interett.  hh  fine  genius  hat  tealed  bit  un- 

buished   volume  with  Snmoitalily.     For  magni- 

eiamining tome  of  thete  otitonen.  Sir  Walter 

ficence  of  eloquence,  and  matuitnets  of  thought, 
wenrnatmirfwellonhi.  ptget.*    Such  was  the 

man,  wbo  was  tbe  adoied  patron  of  Spenser  j 
whom  Ben  Jonson.  proud  of  calling  other  fi- 

in  tome  agony  to  be  uniMe  to  endure  bis  miifor- 
tunn,  and  prolciiing  innocency,  with  carclesnett 

titM  of  bit  "father,"  and  wbo  left  poUticJ  in- 

«tf  bW«-  1^  ris*.  pap.  Im,  n.  ««r  >«J'ai!y.  f-V 

Si""'- 


man.    If  it  were  nothing  but  OH 

Fetn  of  the  Brave  1" 

open  auoihe.  of  tbe 

Follies  of  the  Wise!" 

turned  from  the  wild  and  despet 

s'uAriaJ-.'S'J^ 

sicknev  and  in  lonow,  brooded  over  the  tad 
tboughtt  that  in  tbe  hatred  of  the  Spaniard,  and 
in  the  political  puuilanimiry  of  James,  h-  was 


SECRET  HISTORY  OF  StR  WALTER  RAWLEKH. 


4" 


111  pTQcnliineBt,  he  had  nen  wlibnl  to  hj 
rveu  lip  hit  sfaip  to  thv  crew,  bid  Ihcy  comeoi 
t  h'Tc  taoiled  him  ia  Prance;  but  he  wu  p 

\crwanli  at  lind,  whrre  he  vHhcd  to  «=i 

ircd,  lloitJnB  between  the  khk  of  honour  i 

kAvrlcich  landed  in  hfi  natWe  county  of  I>eT< 
is  irrivjtl  4u  ttic  oirninDii  to^c  of  CDDvenali< 


Alhc  micncc  of  Jamei,  breathlosl^ 


inKibcrediBtfaiipTediitor]rexpeditron.  The  timid 
monneb,Icni1i«ljit  thiUngicaLMppearanceof  bii 
iKctLoua  (ricndi  uw  it  once  (he  demuHb  of  the 
whole  Sfunbh  (iUnnel,>nil  lented  hi>  pilUitiie  in 
1  gentle  pKielamAtioB.  Rawkigh,  having  tettled 
hit  ilTiin  Id  the  wat,  tet  nit  for  London  tD  ippen 
befoie  the  king,  in  cooKquence  of  ibe  pioclinu- 
Hon.  A  few  imla  bom  Plymonlti,  he  wa  met  b/ 
sir  L^wli  Stnclejr,  vice^ilmifil  of  Devon,  ■  kini- 

goiremment,  hid  Kcepted  m  myn  of  art^Oiantt 
over  Sir  Waller.  II  i>  Hid  (und  will  he  credited, 
wben  WE  heu  the  Moty  of  Stueley)  that  he  hid  set 
hii  beait  on  Ibe  Mi^  n  ■  pTMubie  good  pur. 
cbve ;  and  on  the  ^wv,  igaimt  wliom.  In  eolour 


ti  on  ftiwleigh  more  lik 


l^n^?f  K' 


id)  of  Kawlei^.    The  warrant  Slue: 


kawleiHh  itill,  howercT,  waa  not  placed  under 
■nr  bann  rotninl  i  bi<  confidenlial  HKCIttc, 
Caplain  Kii«,  accompanied  him ;  and  it  \,  pio- 
bsble,  that  IfKawleigh  bad  eflecluated  hit  CKipe, 


by  night,  and  might 


led  boRiei  another  night,  the  a 


anl.orking'imajeoger.gave  a  mote' menu 


itate.    Uiicn  letten  of  commission  from  the  privy 

Ici^h  was  observed  to  change  cauntcnance,  ch- 
claiming  with  au  oalb, "  b  it  possible  my  Tortune 

before  Capliin  King,  Ibat  be  had  no^cclcd  the 
opportunity  of  escape ;  and  which,  rvcry  diiy  be 
advanced  inland,  remoi'ed  bim  the  more  from  any 


'd,  Itiwitiigb  thought  thai  Hanoi 
i™.  »'"Jp^«'>lyover»tu(le>  ti 


pmcraallnation  might.  In  the  chapter  of  accidents. 


r/  mem 


y,  thai  Ihere  wu  no  doubt  of 
cbimber,  declared    ibat   hii 


piUa' 


kn  him  in  hit  >hJTl  npon  all  foun,  gnawing  Ibe 

scene  with  Hanoun^,  observing  that  he  had  m^dc 
Stueley  ■  perfi!Ct  ph>-tician. 
But  Riwleigh  wind  it  required   some  more 

scenes  bad  eiblbi^.  The  vomits  worked  so 
slowly,  that  Hanoury  wiA  fearful  lo  nrpeal  the 
dosea.    Rawleigh  Inquired,  whether  the  empiric 

look  ahastly,  without  injuring  his  health.  The 
Frenchman  oflered  a  harmless  ointmeni  to  act  on 
the  surface  of  the  skin,  which  would  give  hrm  the 
appearance  of  a  leper.  ~  Tliat  will  do  I"  tiid 
Rawleigh,  "  Atr  the  lorda  vrill  be  afraid  to  appRiath 
me,  and  bwdes  it  will  move  their  pi1>'-"  AppI-.- 
Ing  the  idntmnit  to  bii  biowi,  hit  aims,  lod  hii 
breast,  the  blislen  row,  the  skin  inHamed,  ami  wu 
coveted  with  nuiple  spots.  Stuclcy  concluded 
that  Rawleigh  had  Ibe  plague.  Phssicijiit  w^  re 
now  to  be  called  In ;  Kawlei^  took  Ihe  hl:ick  lilk 
ribbon  from  hb  poniard,  and  Hanoury  ti^btcnud 
It  strongly  about  bis  arm,  lo  disntder  hit  pulses 

peared  lo  take  no  Tood,  while  Manonry  secretly 

ttllL  more,  Rawlelgh  nad  Ibe  urinal  coluurcd  by  a 
druEOlaitrangsccat.  The  physicians  pronounced 


r<fci^ 


l^aJa. 


■iUJH 


423 


SECRET  HISTORY  OF  SIR  WALTER  RAWLEWH, 


and  no  ope  present  but  Manoury,  Sir  Walter  held  a 
looking-t;lass  in  his  hand,  to  admire  hi*  spotted 
face,*  and  ohsencd  in  merriment  to  his  new  con- 
fidant, how  they  should  one  day  laugh,  for  having 
thus  cozened  —  the  king,  council,  physicians, 
Spaniards,  and  all."  IThe  excuse  RawlcigH  offered 
for  this  course  of  poor  stratagems,  so  unworthy  of 
his  genius,  was  to  obtain  time  and  seclusion  for 
writmg  his  apology,  or  vindication  of  his  voyage, 
which  has  come  down  to  us  in  his  "  Rem^^ns." 
"The  prophet  David  did  make  himself  a  fool,  and 
suffered  spittle  to  fall  upon  his  beard,  to  escape 
from  the  hands  of  his  enemies,"  said  Rawleigh  m 
his  last  speech.  Brutus,  too,  was  another  example. 
But  his  discernment  often  prevailed  over  this 
mockery  of  his  spirit.  The  king  licensed  him  to 
reside  at  his  own  house  on  his  arrival  in  London ; 
on  which  Manoury  observed,  that  the  king  showed 
by  this  indulgence,  that  his  majesty  was  favourably 
inclined  towards  him;  but  Rawleigh  replied,  "They 
used  all  these  kinds  of  flatteries  to  the  Duke  of 
Biron,  to  draw  him  fairly  into  prison,  and  then 
they  cut  off  his  head.  I  know  they  have  concluded 
among  them,  that  it  is  expedient  that  a  man  should 
die,  to  reaasure  the  traflick  which  I  have  broke 
with  Spain."  And  Manoury  adds,  from  whose 
narrative  we  have  all  these  particulars,  that  Sir 
Walter  broke  out  into  this  rant :  "  If  he  could  but 
save  himself  for  this  time,  he  would  plot  such  plots, 
as  should  make  the  king  think  himself  happy  to 
send  for  him  again,  and  restore  him  to  his  estate, 
and  would  force  the  king  of  Spain  to  write  into 
England  in  his  favour." 

Rawleigh  at  length  proposed  a  flight  to  France 
with  Manoury,  who  declares  that  it  was  then  he 
revealed  to  Stucley  what  he  had  hitherto  concealed, 
that  Stucley  might  double  his  vigilance.  Rawleigh 
now  perceived  that  he  had  two  rogues  to  bribe 
instead  of  one,  and  that  they  were  playing  into 
one  another's  hands.  Proposals  are  now  made  to 
Stucley  through  Manoury,  who  is  as  compliant  as 
his  bfothcr-knave.  Rawleigh  presented  Stucley 
with  "  a  jewel  made  in  the  fa^ion  of  hail  powdered 
with  diamonds,  with  a  ruby  in  the  midst."  But 
Stucley  ol)»er\-ing  to  his  kinsman  and  friend,  that 
be  mmt  lose  his  office  of  Vice- Admiral,  which  had 
co5t  him  six  hundred  pounds,  in  case  he  suffered 
Rawleigh  to  escape ;  Rawleigh  solemnly  assured 
him  that  he  should  be  no  loser,  and  that  his  lady 
should  give  him  one  thousand  pounds  when  they 
got  into  France  or  Holland.  About  this  time  the 
French  quack  took  his  leave  :  the  part  he  had  to 
act  was  performed  :  the  juggle  was  complete :  and 
two  wretches  had  triumphed  over  the  sagacity  and 
magnanimity  of  a  sage  and  a  hero,  whom  mis- 
fortune  had  levelled  to  folly ;  and  who,  in  violating 
the  dignity  of  his  own  character,  had  only  equalled 
himself  vrith  vulgar  knaves ;  men  who  exulted 
that  the  circumventer  was  circumvented;  or,  as 
they  expressed  it,  **  the  great  cozener  was  co- 
zened."   But  our  story  does  not  here  conclude, 

*  A  friend  informs  me,  that  he  saw  recently  at  a 

Erint-dealer's  a  painted  portrait  tj  Sir  /flatter  Ra%u- 
igh,  'with  thtjace  thus  spotted.  It  is  extraordinary 
that  any  artist  should  have  chosen  such  a  subject 
for  hi:  pencil ;  but  should  this  be  a  portrait  of  the 
times.  It  shows  that  this  strange  stratagem  had  ex- 
cited  public  attention. 


for  the  treacheries  of  Stucley  were  more  intricate. 
This  perfect  villain  had  obtained  a  wanint  of 
indemnity,  to  authorise  his  compliance  with  aar 
offer  to  assist  Rawleigh  in  bis  escape  ;  ftb  wretai 
was  the  confidant  and  the  executioner  of  Rawteigb ; 
he  carried  about  him  a  licence  to  betray  bim,  and 
was  making  his  profit  of  the  victim  befofc  he 
delivered  him  to  the  sacrifice.  Rawleigjh  was  itil 
plotting  his  escape :  at  Salisbury  he  had  despatched 
his  confidential  friend  Captain  King  to  Londoa,  lo 
secure  a  boat  at  'Hlbury ;  he  had  atao  a  aeact 
inter\-iew  with  the  French  ^ent.  Rawlcig|h*i 
sen-ant  mentioned  to  Captain  King,  that  his 
boatswain  had  a  ketch  of  his  own,  and  was  readjr 
at  his  service  for  "thirty  pieces  of  silver;"  tbie 
boatswain  and  Rawleigfa's  servant  acted  Jadtt,aBd 
betrayed  the  plot  to  Mr.  William  Herbert, 


to  Stucley,  and  thus  the  treachery  was  kept  amoaK 
themselves  as  a  family  concern.  The  ni^ht  of 
flight  was  now  fixed,  but  he  could  not  part  without 
his  friend  Stucley,  who  had  promised  never  to  quit 
him;  and  who  indeed,  informed  by  hb  cousin 
Herbert,  had  suddenly  surprised  Rawleigh  p«ttiiic 
on  a  f:ilse  oeard.  The  party  met  at  the  appointu 
place ;  Sir  Lewis  Stucley  with  his  son,  and  Rawkigh 
disguised.  Stucley  in  saluting  King,  asked  wbetbcr 
he  had  not  shown  himself  an  honest  man  ?  King 
hoped  he  would  continue  so.  They  had  not  rowed 
twenty  strokes,  before  the  watermen  observed, 
that  Mr.  Herbert  had  lately  taken  boat,  and  made 
towards  the  bridge,  but  had  returned  down  the 
river  after  them.  Rawleigh  instantly  expresMd  bis 
apprehensions,  and  wished  to  return  home;  be 
consulted  King — the  watermen  took  fright  — 
Stucley  acted  his  part  well ;  damning  bis  ill 
fortune  to  have  a  friend  whom  he  would  save,  so 
full  of  doubts  and  fears,  and  threatening  to  piitol 
the  watermen  if  they  did  not  proceed.  Even  King 
was  overcome  by  the  earnest  conduct  of  Stucley, 
and  a  new  spirit  was*  infused  into  the  rowers.  As 
they  drew  near  Greenwich,  a  wherry  crtntsed  them. 
Rawleigh  declared  it  came  to  discover  them. 
King  tried  to  allay  his  fears,  and  assured  him  that 
if  once  they  reacned  Gravescnd,  he  would  hazard 
his  life  to  get  to  Tilbury.  But  in  these  dela>-s  and 
discussions,  the  tide  was  failing;  the  watermen 
declared  they  could  not  reach  Graveaend  before 
morning ;  Rawleigh  would  ha%'e  landed  at  Pnrfleet, 
and  the  boatswain  encouraged  him  ;  for  there  it 
was  thought  he  could  procure  horses  for  Tilbury. 
Sir  Lewis  Stucley  too  was  zealous ;  and  declared 
he  was  content  to  carr\'  the  cloak -bag  on  his  own 
shoulders,  for  half  a  mile,  but  King  declared  that 
it  was  useless,  they  could  not  at  that  boor  get 
horses,  to  go  by  land. 

They  rowed  a  mile  bevond  Woolwich,  approach- 
ing two  or  three  ketcbes,  when  the  boatswain 
doubted  whether  any  of  these  were  the  one  he  had 
provided  to  furnish  them.  "We  are  betrayed r* 
cried  Rawleig^h,  and  ordered  the  watermen  to  row 
back:  he  strictly  examined  the  IxMtswain  :  alas  I 
his  ingenuity  was  baffled  by  a  shuffling  villain, 
whose  real  answer  appeared  when  a  wherry  haakd 
the  l>oat;  Rawleigh  observed  that  it  contuned 
Herbert's  crew.  He  saw  that  all  waa  now  dis- 
covered. He  took  Stucley  aside ;  hb  ingenioat 
mind  still  suggesting  projects  for  himself  to  return 
home  in  safety,  or  how  Stucley  might  plead  that 
he  had  only  pretended  to  go  with  Rawleigh,  to 


•  -N 


SECRET  HlSTORr  OF  SIR  WALTER  RAWI.EIGII.  413 

Ki«  Ml  bh  ptirite  pipen.  They  whiipeled -to-  Kiipt  loter-wrileri,  IbM  it  »m  urtKo  bv  Dr. 
Rclher,  in<L  Riwld>Eh  Inok  »m«  tbinp  rmm  hit  Sb^upc,  who  h^d  been  a  chnfdjin  ta  Hcnrr  Princi; 
pocket,  ind  hndrd  ihim  in  Riucic;' 1  piohaWy  i  o(  U'llci.    The  uriirr  pkult  In  SiiultC'i  jii-il- 

nIcelWMlinluiRiiwCHHiypfalnHdi  (Is  IbE  tmilEr  liwriil  lo  Ik  fur  (he  dbnneiv  o(  I'niwn  ;  tlul 
h»it  iiT  hii  rrtmd  ItDckr  mil  only  RpcHlcdIjr  he  bad  ■  tlihriI  hutriil  low'jnli  RiwIeiKli,  fur 
tmhrKcd  hm  «itb  citnmUgiiy  wjnnth  ofi  having  ahridigcil  bit  rather  at  hit  ibue  oJ  Niini 
■rtcclimiiliiitiniiinliibkliKllMaiisarftlciHfahip' ptin-monejri  and  IhcB  salcn  tnsre  into  ll.ivr< 
nd  lideKly.  (iBcley  pmiuded  Rawldah  to  land  1  Icigb'i  chmcter,  oho  "brlnf  dopenle  of  inr 
at  arateimd,  tlia  UMBKe  vheny  which  had  1  IbituiK  here,  apeuhle  la  ihit  helehl  of  hii  miuJ, 
dogged  tbcm  landing  it  the  ume  limc)  ibnej  would  hut  maile  up  hit  hnnne  elaEwbeiE,  uimd 
were  people  hc1on|ELng  10  Mr.  Herhert  and  ^  any  xavn  ipiiut  hia  wvrreigq  and  hli  countn-. 
William  m:  Mid,  wEo,  il  kchh,  had  IBnnerly  ■•  K  sat  marvd,"  conlinHei  Ibe  pcnonibcr  cf 
ihared  in  the  ipnili  lA  Mt  unhappy  hero.  On  Mucley, "  that  be  wn  angrv  « ilh  me  al  his  d«th 
Grcenoith  bridge, StiK Icy  adiiicd  f^aptJn  King!  fnihi1a||ing him  hack»    lieiidei.belnga  man  of 

King  ihould  conleH  thai  he  had  >iii<ed  'with  o(  inean  wil » I  ihouhl  be  ihouiibl  to  go  heicind 
maclev  to  bemy  bii  mauer ;  and  Mas  klEh  knt  him.  No  !  Sit  trt  ittuAiltr  ant.  tit^ta  rnim 
himieir  10  Ibe  utggeu'ian  of  Blnclcy,  of  whuie  Ux  jaiii-r  ulU  ill  qnm  niiii  mlifiiri  *'lt  frriit 
Inachcry  he  might  (till  be  uncen.iin  1  but  KInR,  mil.  iThit  api  Laiinitv  ln-iijis  Dr.  Ehaijie.) 
a  muiih  and  honeM  waniiB,  declared  Ihal   he  |  Bui  uliy  did  yoii  nol  eiecute  >o»r  cumminion 

refuwd,  illuclcy  arreiled  Ibe  cjpliin  in  ihe  liing'i  I  to  Ibe  coDlrjry,  10  dlicoier  hia  prcleniioni,  and 

■--■■'—— ■'-■charte  of  Hirben'i   to  lelie  bli  leerEt  p;ipeT^"  &c.* 

._ ..^.       Bnl  IhEdoctnr.lbDughnaunakilfuliifrilcr.taere 

Uirpiliide  of  long  and  ptacliwd  treacheri  ?    To 


men.     They  tbcn 

iruc  thape,  obierted,  "Rir  Lewis  theie  iciimn 
will  vol  turn  nul  In  ytiur  credit  •^'  and  nn  the  liil' 
lowing  day,  when  Ihevpaiaeil  Ihtoogh  IbeTnwer- 
gale,  RioMgh  turning  lu  King,  nbw^wl,"  Uurlef 
and  my  ynant  Cotlcrell  have  belrayed  mr.  Yon 
need  be  In  no  fear  of  danger  t  but  »  fat  me,  il  11 1 
who  am  Ihe  marfc  Ihjl  i>  ihM  at."  Thui  cnncludei 
tbenaimiieof  Caplain  King.  The  lalenfKawIeigh 
Man  leriiied  the  ptediciion. 

Th)i  long  namliie  of  treachery  will  nnl,  how- 
erer,  be  compleie,  unkH  we  wind  •■  up  wiib  the 
(ate  of  Ihe  Infimou)  (tuclet.    FIclion  g->e>  per- 

mannerjliutlhe 

■Iwiyl  refreihcd  I .  _      .  _     _.. 

lionianol  alwaya  discovered  m  the  Mtient  itjge 

dctsblful  ai  Action,  Hhenoer  Itt  pericn      ~  - 

TIh;  pre-eni  is  a  tplendid  eumpk. 
I  hivE  iliacovercd  the  secret  bitlary  M  Sir  Lewis 

Kaw'l!igh,  [d  bii  •UminCk  addresa  from  Ibe 

(peclalon  than  Ibe  mflenir,  declared  he  lat^\ 


■wlcfub'i  last  and 
ry,<.fhis_-lin™ 


as  iirtrocably  fatal  lo  thi> 
Ihe  peopk  were  open  to  the  deepest 

■  of  ympalhy,  Dielling  ir'-  •-      -• 


the  nation ;  be  soon  ohtained  a  new 


[  1  haro  since  dianrrcied,  ii 


filled  wiih  ihr  plague  Ul  Ir 


•MTjmcBI,  Ihal  whaterer  be  had  Inid  to  Kao  Irixli'a 

then,"  replied  hia  m^|es(y,  "  the  miiie  milu  <<nis 
WIS  Sir  WillL-r  IS  uiler  these  Bpeei:hi.t  al  his 
death.'  Rir  Thomis  Badger,  who  slvod  )iy,  oh- 
aemd, "  Let  the  king  lake  a(F  Mnclcy's  beiil.  as 

death  'lake  the  saeranent  and  bii  nalb  upon  it,  and 
I'll  hclieie  bin ;  hut  liU  Stuclcy  Irmei  hii  bi-^il,  I 

rllice,  phcedhimielf  in^lul'aud'illn'e'chvnlieT  lif 

■     ■    ^ |Mveaiiim»ith- 

cd  lu  aiUrcn  the 


edice/phced  himself  in 


irm^tcd  lu  addrc^  the 


nlempt  of  mm,  olfei  thvscif  in  my  prevncc  ? 
'ere  II  not  in  my  irnn  houie  1  would  caAge\ 
■ee with  my  ml)  for  prenimlni;  in  iliis  uucl- 


■UHul  wouldal  Ibnu  havi 


One  of  ilie  (icquinil  erimn  of  ihit  jue,  e 
Ibrgery  nf  brnk-intct  riiiled,  was  the  cl 
"i  gold ;  and  Ihii  wa  one  of  Ibe  private  a 


■»«■ 


I  TTtTl 


■^U^^ 


424 


AUTHENTIC  NARRATIVE  OF  THE  LAST 


fire  hundred  poonds  as  the  reward  of  bb  espim^ge 
and  perfidy.    It  was  the  price  of  blood,  and  was 

'  hirdly  in  hb  bands  ere  it  was  tomed  into  the  frau- 
dulent coin  of  **  the  Cheater !"    He  was  seized  on 

I   iii  the  palace  of  Whitehall,  for  diminishing;  the 

Sid  coin.  "  The  ntanner  of  the  dtscorery/*  sa}-s 
e  manuscript  •writer,  **  was  strange,  if  my  occa- 
sions would  suffer  noe  to  relate  the  patticulars.**  On 
his  examination,  he  attempted  to  shift  the  crime 
to  hb  own  son,  who  had  flown,  and  on  hb  man, 
who  being  taken,  in  the  words  of  the  letter-writer, 
was  "witling  to  set  the  saddle  upon  the  sight 
(  hone,  and  accused  hb  master."  Manoury  too, 
the  French  empiric,  was  arrested  at  Plymouth  for 
the  same  crime,  and  accused  hb  worthy  friend. 
But  such  was  the  interest  of  Stucley  with  gorem- 
ment,  bought  probably  with  hb  Ijh^  shilling,  and, 
as  one  sa\^  with  his  last  diirt,  that  he  obt^ned 
hb  own  and  hb  son's  pardon,  for  a  crime  thit 
ought  to  h^ve  finally  concluded  the  history  of  thb 
bk»sed  family.*  A  nnore  solemn  and  tragical 
cat.-istrophe  was  reserved  for  the  perfidious  Stuclc}*. 
He  was  deprived  of  hb  place  of  vice-admiral,  arid 
left  destitute  in  the  world.  Abandoned  by  all 
human  beines,  and  most  probably  by  the  son 
whom  he  had  tutored  into  the  arts  of  villany,  he 
appears  to  have  wandered  about  an  infamous  and 
distracted  beggar.  It  is  possible  that  eren  so 
seared  a  conscience  may  have  retained  some  re- 
maining touch  of  sensibility. 

All  are  men. 

Condemned  alike  to  groan  ; 
The  tender  for  another's  pain. 

Tub  UNFEBLINO  rOR  HIS  OWN. 

And  Camden  has  recorded,  among  his  historical 
notes  on  James  I.,  that  in  August,  i6ao,  "  Lewis 
Stucley,  who  betrayed  Sir  Walter  Rawleigh,  died 
in  a  manner  mad."  Such  is  the  catastrophe  of 
one  of  the  most  perfect  domestic  tales;  an  histo- 
riciil  example  not  easily  paralleled  of  moral  retri- 
bution. The  secret  practices  of  this  "  Sir  Judas  " 
of  the  court  of  James  I.,  which  I  have  discovered, 
throw  light  on  an  old  tradition  th.-it  still  exists  in 
the  neighbourhoud  of  Aston,  the  residence  of  this 
wretched  man,  and  which  has  been  communicated 
to  me  by  that  elei;.uit  literary  anti(|uary,  Mr. 
Mcrivale.  The  country  people  have  long  had  a 
notion  that  great  treasures  are  concealed  at  the 
bottom  of  a  well  in  his  grounds,  consisting  of  the 
gold  which  he  received  for  his  bribe ;  or  perhaps 
tl'c  other  gold  which  he  clipped,  and  might  have 
tiiere  concealed.  This  b  a  striking  instance  of  the 
many  historical  facts  which,  though  entirely  un- 
known or  forgotten,  may  be  often  discovered  to 
lie  hid,  or  disguised,  in  popular  traditions. 


AN  AUTHENTIC  NARRATIVE  OP  THB  LAST 
HOURS  OF  SIR  WALTER  RAWLEIGH. 

The  close  of  the  life  of  Sir  Walter  Rawleigh 
was  u%  cxtraordin  jry  as  many  parts  of  his  varied 

•  The  anecdotes  re^pectlng  Stucley  I  have  de- 
rived from  mruuiscnpf  letters,  and  they  were  con- 
sidered tu  be  of  so  dangerous  a  nature,  that  the 
writer    recommends  secresy,  and  requests    after 


history :  the  promptitode  and  spri^tSnos  of  hk 
genius,  hi»  carelessness  of  life,  and  the  eqnaatoiitf 
of  that  great  spirit  in  quitting  the  world,  can  oi^ 
be  paralleled  bv  a  few  other  heroes  and  saaes>* 
Rawleigh  was  both  !  Bat  it  b  not  »mplv  his  ^ 
nified  yet  active  conduct  on  the  scafiiDU,  nor  Im 
admirable  speech  on  that  occasion,  circomstaaea 
by  which  many  great  men  are  jadged*  wbea  thdr 
energies  are  excited  for  a  moment  to  act  so  grot 
a  part,  before  the  eyes  of  the  worid  assembled  it 
their  feet;  it  b  not  these  only  which  claim  tm 
notice. 

We  may  pause  with  admiration  on  the  vol 
grandeur  of  Rawleigh's  character;  not  fttm  a 
single  circumstance,  howe%-er  great,  but  ffomi 
tissue  of  continued  little  incidents,  which  occnrred 
from  the  moment  of  hb  condemnation  till  he  bM 
hb  head  on  the  bkx:k,  Rawleigh  was  a  man  of 
such  mark,  that  he  deeply  engaged  the  attentioa 
of  his  contemporaries ;  and  to  thb  we  owe  the 
preservation  of  several  interesting  particulars  of 
what  he  did  and  what  he  said,  which  have  entered 
into  hb  life ;  but  all  has  not  been  told  in  the  p«b> 
lished  narratives.  Contemporary  writers  in  their 
letters  have  set  down  every  fre^  incident,  nA 
eagcriy  caught  up  hb  sense,'  hb  wit,  and  what  b 
more  delightful,  those  marks  of  the  natural  chee^ 
fulness  of  his  invariable  presence  of  mind :  nor 
could  these  have  arisen  from  any  affectat'ioa  or 
parade,  for  we  shall  see  that  they  ser\-ed  him  esea 
in  his  lost  tender  farewell  to  bb  lady,  and  on  manjr 
unpremeditated  occasions. 

I  ha\-e  drawn  together  into  a  short* compaa 
every  fact  concerning  the  feelings  and  conduct 
of  Rawleigh  at  these  solemn  moments  of  his  life, 
which  my  researches  h.-i\e  fumbhed,  not  omitting 
those  which  are  knovin:  to  have  preserved  only 
the  new  M'ould  lie  to  mutiUte  the  statue,  and  to 
injure  the  whole  by  an  imperfect  view. 

Rawleigh  one  morning  was  taken  out  of  hn  bed, 
in  a  fit  ot  fever,  and  unexpectedly  hurried,  not  to 
his  trial,  but  to  a  sentence  of  death.  The  story  is 
well  knoM-n. — Yet  pleading  with  "  a  voice  grown 
weak  by  sickness  and  an  ague  he  had  at  that 
instant  on  him,"  he  used  et  ery  means  to  avert  his 
Cite :  he  did,  therefore,  value  the  life  he  could  so 
ea«ly  part  with.  His  judges  there,  at  least,  re- 
spected their  state  criminal,  and  they  addressed 
him  in  a  far  different  tone  than  he  had  fifteen 
years  before  listened  to  from  Coke.  YeU-crton, 
the  attorney-general,  said,  **  Sir  Walter  Rawleigh 
hath  been  as  a  star  at  which  the  worid  have  gazed ; 
but  stars  may  fall,  nav,  they  must  fall,  when  they 
trouble  the  sphere  wnere  they  abide."  And  the 
lord  chief  justice  noticed  Rawleigh's  great  work: 
— "I  know  that  you  have  been  valiant  and  wise, 
and  I  doubt  not  but  you  retain  both  these  virtues, 
for  now  you  shall  have  occasion  to  use  them. 
Your  bookr  is  an  admirable  work ;  I  would  give 
you  counsel,  but  I  know  you  can  apply  uoto 
yourself  far  better  than  I  am  able  to  gi%-e  you.** 
But  the  judge  ended  with  saying,  "  execution  b 
granted."  It  was  stifling  Rawleigh  with  rmes; 
and  it  was  listening  to  fame  from  the  voice  of 
death. 


reading  **  they  may  be  burnt :"  with  such  injunc- 
tions I  have  generally  found  that  the  letters  were 
the  more  carefully  preserved. 


BOVRS  OF  SIR  -WALTER  RAWLETOH. 


He  dnlina,  Ihit  nnv  being  old,  Hckly,  and 
1  di^ncc,  iiM  "certain  were  nc  jiUowcd  lo  live. 

It  be  intrcdted  wn  (o  hix'c  learc  to  ipcjk  frnLy 


■Hul  lut  niihl  ol'  hli  eilitence  wu  occnpied  bji 

bnncn  lo  be  kit  with  bli  \*ii"  to  uqnilnt  the 
wortd  with  hb  KntiRKOti^  ibonld  he  be  denied 
their  deErerr  fnm  the  icaffOld,  u  he  had  been 
■I  the  birsr  the  DDE^BeBch.    Hi<  lady  riiilcd 


I  wtLL.  Bcb,  thai  thou  inayit  di«pve  of  thai  dead 
:hou  bbbt  not  itwin  the  diiposng  ol  when  it  wji 


Who  in  the  dark  anJ  iileni  grave, 
Shnti  up  the  itory  of  our  day*  I"* 
He  haa  added  Iva  other  linei  eipte&lre  oi  hb  tnul 
in hJiretarrection.  Thejranthentkity iicoDfirmed 

■notbei  writer,  IkIwbb  "  half  a  <ioien  Terta, 
which  Sir  Waiter  made  the  n]ghl  before  hii  death, 
to  take  hia  faiewell  of  poetr>',  wherein  he  hod  been 


it  not  now  with  the  letter.    Chambcilaln,  the 

pot  imhuett  «'Lrh  any  deep  tincture  of  Eiteratnre' 
On  the  tame  night  Ravleigh  wrote  tbia  distich 
OD  the  candle  burning  dlml/ 1 

■*  Cowanb  fear  to  die ;  but  counge  Rout, 


liar  intb 

c  or  Rawieigt 

lebody 

nd," 

attrib 

ted  to   I 

eniltled 

Klgrimage," 

My  gown  of  ^OTV.  Hope'a  ti 


wondering  at  the  heio,  rcptehendcd  the  li| 
of  hia  manner;  but  Rawleigh  pi-e  God 
that  he  had  oei'er  ftired  death,  Tor  it  waa 

ner  of  death,  he  had  rather  ^e  w  than  of  : 

outwardly,  but  he  Celt  the  joy  within.    Thi 

loldler,  a'teaman,  andacouRier."  Thew 
a  manuictipt  letter  Kilt  Ul,  that  the  dean  d 

be  a  man  at  rody  and  as  able  to  give  as  i 

On  the  nwining  of  hit  death  he  tmo 

brought  hini  a  cup  of  eicellenl  tack,  bein] 

(ellow,  thit,  dnnking  ol  St.  Cilei'i  bowl 
went  to  TybnTn,  iaid,  'that  wtt  good  drii 
man  might  urry  by  it."'    The  day  bef 

hit  eye  hadcAuohtSlrHughBcettonin  tlie 

4dl"'Mclaimed°Rawlcig™  "Tkni^nf 
shift  you  will  make,  bu>  I  an.  „,rt  in  hive  a 
In  going  from  the  pr 
olhen  who  were  pics 


:o  the  < 


Btomuch  that  Itawle^h  miticed  him,  i 
'whether  he  would  have  aught  of  hi 
lid  man  answered, "  Nothing  mit  lo  sci 
0  pray  to  God  lor  him."  Rawleigh 
bank  Ibee,  good  friend,  and  I  am  sorr^ 


coloured  Hlin  doublet,  and  a  black  ui 
coat )  black  cut  taOety  bretcbo.  and 


:%ra 


they  would  approach  hi 


1*6                                           LITERARY  UNIONS. 

tatd  to  i.y  the/  ihould  •!!  wilnm.    Tlii.  ragocM 

wbKtibed  .  bun-iced  poui«i.,  the  »ecTeta.T  ob- 

•eived  to  him,  tbit  *■  two  iie  bettef  tbu  dm,  Mt. 

Wiemickl"  either  from  fetf  or  cbuit;  tbc  wiltr 

Arandtl  that  the  kioE  would  not  lulfct  iny  MiKit 
lo  defime  him  «ftn  3eilh— "  And  now  I  hjvi  ^ 

citiiea  doubled  hii  lubicTiptHin. 

Thm  died  Ihii  gloriout  init  gullanl  dTiOer,  of 

whom  Oibome  u>>,  '■  Hii  deilb  wu  minifed  bf 

him  wlih»  high  lod  religion)  ■  rctoiutwD.B  If  ■ 
lomin  hid  Kled  i  cbiiifiin,  ocntber  i  chiiriiis 

a  lomt  feut."  U)i  >  ktlci-wnm.   Hiting  uken 

oAhugDwn,  he  died  to  the  iKiubiniD  toibow 

After  hiving  leid   Ihe   pcecedini  irtlck,  «e 
»t  Htoniihed  It  Ihe  greitnem  u7  the  virWlta 

geniuL    With   Gibbon,  wbo  once  imdiut?!^ 

him  the  ue,  which  ddI  beinE  imlinllt  done,  he 

«p<:.t=<l,"lpr.lheel«nKKeit.   DoHthoulhink 
thuliinir».doritr   HepucdiheedpUshlli 
over  hB  lii^er.  ind  unLling,  otwned  to  the  ihcnrf, 

WTile  hu  lite,  we  miy  piu.  ind  proaoMee  -  hi> 

>ll  diKBa,"  inil  kiningii/bid  itdovn.  Another 

to  decide.  Ihit  Riwleig'h  ktKV  bcttet  how  lo  die 
Ihin  to  h.c.    "  His  gfonota  taauci,-  bfi  i  Cos- 

ARer  Ihii  he  weol  to  three  tcveril  eornen  of  the 

temponcy,  "were  hu  iiriuuncnt  ud  encutioa  i" 

K>dbld,  ud  kneel iDK  do'in,  denied  ill  the  people 

be  fan  liid  binudf  down  lo  Ity  how  the  block 

in  emhnce  did,  but  inlreited  him  no!  toitnke 
t.ll  he  gire  1  token  hy  lilting  np  hi)  hind,  -  0»J 
Hun  /lar  iHi.  iMi  ilrik,  \.ni!"    When  he  Uid 

Ah  union  of  iilenlLdid^rnng  In  tbeicqnililia. 

tioner  denied  him  tolly  hll  lice  lowi'ldl  the  eut. 

rniKlit  cim  H>me  imporuoi  worki  to  i  mere  ei- 

Icnded  pecfeelion      In  i  wock  of  gre..  eoterpri.^ 

■iind.'w  the  he>n  i'ly  light'."  >•"  lUwtc^h  i  but 

Ihe  ..d  of  1  mendly  hind  m.y  be  ib»iiiielv  ne- 

CCBllr  to   complete  Ihe  liboun  of  Ihe  projector. 

he  ta«l  lived  in  il— du,  hniiig  Ilin  lome  mnuln 

on  Ihe  hhKk  id  snya,  he  give  tbc  lignil ;  l>i>t 

foRli  bH  biiuK  w»  compelled  » lit  bin/- Why 

want  of  Ihii  iriendir  nitcouc.     The  puhl«  bid 
been  gntefnl  to  Jiitinvn,  hid  be  onited  in  hs 

blowi  he  WH  beheided ;  buf  <hlm"lhe  tini,  hh 

dictloBiiy  the  libonn  of  lome  lomei!  etvmolo- 

body  never  ihrunk  from  Ihe  ipol,  by  iny  diwm- 
pon.ce  or  hi.  poetnre.  which,  like  >ii.  miiid.vu 

p«.    Speed')  Chronicle  owei  moit  ufiii  vilue,M 

Cotton,  >nd  olher  corioM  rewiTchcn  who  i«itn- 

-  in  111  the  lime  he  w»  upon  the  toaol.l.  md 

of"!he'"o"  To™it ^"'.nd '^"n'^'-*22 

before,"  uyi  one  of  ihe  m.inuwhpt  leltet-wcileri, 

rrknd^    Thett.Uvilued  book.of  the  M.i-Boi.1 

been  come  tbitber  nlber  lobe  ■  ipeetilgr  Ibu  i 

(ocielr  wm  *U  foimed  by  .hi.  bippy  umoo.  The 
Kciel  bWoiy  of  m.nv  eminent  work,  would  d»w 

nitereti  niy,  the  beholden  leenied  mncb  more 

Ihe  idTioiige)  wh«h  miy  be  den.ed  from  Ihi. 

>«».bl<  (bin  did  he.  »  Ihu  he  hitb  pun:hi.ed 

here  in  the  opinion  of  men  luch  honour  lud  repo- 
ution,  u  it  il  Ihoughi  hii  greileit  encmin  ue  they 

of  the  Creek  dtim.iie  poet,  hid  never  been  gieen 

The  people  were  dccplv  iiTeclnlVl  the'ughl. 

lo   the  poeneil  wortd,   hid  he  not  iccidcnBllr 
^^ed  Bentley.     Thil  lieiiuie  mpjiUed  tbil  «- 

ind  u  much,  thit  one  i.ld,  Ihil  -we  bid^i 

Kirch  In  the  moil  ob)cnre  wotk),  which  ibe  vola- 

tile Hudiet  of  Cum  becuod  could  never  bne  e.- 

"ttiihcd  Hie  held  inil  liruMlnbeaponBecKtirv 

plimd  i  1  eiccumiiince  which  he  coBceihs)  from 

Hiunloni  •hniilden.-    Tlie  obKntr  uffered  lot 

thiii  l»  *ii  I  n-eiKhy  Htiien.and  gnil  new<. 

he  Ihni  ciieiply  p.*«»t.      Vet  by  Ihi)  Utenqr 

moTOer.«idonewho  h>uni«l  Psul'.w.lk.  Com- 

pnvy-touneiL     He  plinled  Ihii  be  Inlended  iw 

onion,  Bcntlcy'i  vnt  emdiiion   nude  Ib«e  R- 

•  The  chief  pidiculin  in  thii   nmUnc  wc 

dureipect  to   Hi.  fceretiry ;  but  onlv  ipike  in 

dnwn  fiom  lnuo  minnicnpc  ktlen  of  the  dij,  la 

reference  to  Ihe  old  prvrcrh.ihit  ■■luo'hcjdiveie 

the  KIo<ne  Collecll.n,  nndei their RBeeliveditt^ 
Nov.  ],  ,6ia,  Litkin  tn  SirTho.  P^Eeriiif  |  Oct. 

better  ihio  oi«  v    Hit  c>ci«  w.ullowed  ii  the 

of  wkuch  tbc  compcoilion  h^  t 
iDcot  even  of  ihe  phUwnphk 

HtnORTnivr  veluine  ii  "T 
Wortd,  by  R.— '-■-'  "    ■  -■--" 


I.TTEJIARr  UNIO}^!?. 

if  Ihe  domestic  6cen  liiichjpLiin.  AU.oi  thegmitcil  piiinf  11 
'  wu  incapable,  dmdgefy  of  Sir  Walter^  hritory  for  Criliciur 
AEU  criehnted,    ChroooJaex,  ■nd  r«ailiii«   GR:ck   nnJ    Hcltri 


obtcrTUian.  tlut  tlie  r 


«n,  uid  iiiHlcr  nil  circumiti 
bbn  to  nnderliike  and  execue 
hitHiaorvofUxWorld."    N< 

ukd  the  pithctic  pauigei   ii 


!t  the  iHoiHiiiE  niuer  conUined  in  Ihii 
■nd  recollect  the  little  time  whifh  this 
urou  spirili  whoie  Hie  wu  p»cd  in  fobri- 

Duld  illnw  Id  Hieh  enxdile  punuitt.  Where 

with  the  rAbbiu,  of  whoK   luigmge  he  wb 
■   My  entirdy  i^nonnt  r    HiinuinrmasiniMi- 

b  eicelknt  in  their  kiod,  were  evideollr 
bed  by  one  who  vu  not  ebitruted  in 
II  inJ  remote  iiuiuirln.  hot  fuH  of  ihe  dnily 
nuidlhewisloniothiinimlilc.  HUcon- 
eM  in  the  Tower,  which  Ixti.'d  icveni  yean, 
..  .-  .1 TmjKRltioii  of  thi» 


Indeed  HilEcienI  It 


si^ularly  luppeacd  thai  be  liieil 

chinclen,  with  the  nwA  Lntimale  frieniisbib. 

Then  he  joined  the  Earl  of  NnrOiumberland,  tlte 


.„-  ....  happeocd  thai  be  liieil  iirHinif  litcnr 
chinclen,  with  the  nwA  Lntimale  frieniisbi| 
Then  he  joined  the  Earl  of  NnrOiumbe  -     ' 
pitron  of  the  ptiilninphcn  of  hb  ■«» 
— ' -iwleiSl   panueJ  hia  -■ ' 


ledged  Itiat  "It  wu  H 


Qkins  who  had  poli^ied 

particle  of  Hebrew,  uid 
The  Iililh    a,  that   the 


"my"'*'  -i; 

Kquire!c'w^ 


le  v/oAA,  by  Si 


Waller  Riwldgh,  will  doubllea  ni 


piobaMy  bavE  been  oepnTcd  of  the  diHi^ilfi 

loTv  of  Artiiti  by  Vaiari  i  althav^  i  r- 

and  gDldi~=''-    — -'   — ■  -    "' 


_   bhIiKd' Willi  It 


^■- m^M'of'i!! 

iug(E«ed  by  (tie  cekbnted  l^iuliu  Joviui  u 
wpplenicBt  to  hli  own  w«k  of  Ihe  "  Euhigiiir 
of  fUustriona  Men."  Vaurl  approved  of  ihi;  |Hxf 
icct ;  but  on  thai  occa«an  judiciouily  obicrvL-d, 
not  blinded  by  the  celebrity  of  Ihe  literary  ni~~ 
who  pKfectcd  it.  that  "It  would  reqiitR  I 
aiditince  of  an  artist  ID  collect  Ihe  matcrliK  and 
amnge  them  in  their  proper  order ;  Eoralihough 
JoHus  dinlwed  great  \iiowkd.K  in  hli  ohwm 

amoiieinent  of  hit  bcti  inhii  book  of  Kulnttinmi.' 
ARerwatdi,  when  Vaviri  began  to  collect  hli  in- 
formatinB,  and  conulted  hulas  Jmiui  on  the 
plan,  allbongh  Ihal  author  highly  appniied  of 
what  be  uw,  be  alleged  liii  own  want  of  I-" — '- 
and  capacity  to  complete  wh  an  enterpnie 
Ihii wufoTlunatCT  weihouldothcrwi9eh:iV4 


F  my  infotmalion  from  a  very  lingular 
u  been  miitaki^n  for  a  lioy-t  lipberinfi 


Anibony  Wood^  pa 


hink,  that  the  transcriber  copied  ttiem  fnim  1 
naai  of  Anthony  Wood"!  papeif,  of  which  m 
han  one  lackfol  waa  burnt  at  hli  deure  biH 
ilm.  when  dying.    If  it  be  »,  Ihii  hi.  is  the  o 


k,  who,  he   loJd 


:bargea  with  iofuilng  into  Rawlelsli's  volume  piece  to  him  of  Ihe  Punic  w. 
^Ilmophical  noliom,  while  Rawleieh  was  cam-  andael  in  his  book."  Unibii 
poiinghisHiitoiTof  the  World,  Bui  if  Rawleiiih'i   powerful  adiocale  Hr,  OIHai 

wtj  Hwi,  n  Hume  observed,  we  most  altri-  |has  ne'er  been  discotered :  b 

iwild.  In  the  eouiity  of  KorfOlk,  who  was  a   true. 


OF  A  BIOUBAPST  FAINTED. 


n  natural  ityLc, 


The  principle  \\\ti 


■nd  coiire)-cd  ti>  lu  ibine  reA«iic>M  wt 

cocnc  from  tbcir  *>ufcc.     T  ibaU  give  Ibc  njeagF, 


itircly  vrittcQ  by  hiiTucIf,  ibonsb  pTDbibly  under 
t  diclaliad,  and,  anquatioiubly,  wirb  tut  rom- 
iimicatknH  (uHoganh  vaicompcLlaltfi  employ 
le  pen  ai  i  liKruy  rud  for  hu  own  onginal 

id  bf  dilT^ncnt  hantii.    Mr.  Foseli  bu  illuded  id 


nrned  aliri]r»  ii  at  a  Ioa  to  account  U 
nittaka.     Mc.  Pnieli  finely  obiervcs,  "H. 

omc  degree  ta  thai  appeHilkin^  we  ought  not  — 
breel  Ib^t  Ibe  inronnAdoD  of  every  day  addi 

he  CTcdibUlIy  of  (be  TuKin."     All  Ihii  iti 


'ork  of  natural  phiknopby,  entitled  "Sajrgii 


A  BIOGRAPHT  PAtNTBD. 


a  boot<UTi<Bity  of  this  nanue. 
This  niraorunary  volume  tnay  be  said  to  have 
ncd  the  traieb  and  advenlures  oE  Cbailei 

conjiBcd  only  of  eighteen  pigej,  campMcd 

of  I  Jcriei  of  highly  hnilhed  miniatute  painlinp 

rcintjin  nunychapten;  for,  geQerally*  it  ii  cam> 
powd  of  a  laEve  centte^paece,  turroundcd  by  ten 

ind  alluiiona  |  the  whole  eahihitinfj  the  romantic 

■tt  that  oe  are  to  couider  II  g  il  bECDmes  ano- 
tilled  with  a  more  elevated  Iteliag  In  the  occason 
ivhich  produced  it.  The  author,  who  i>  himiclf 
Lhe  hero,  alter  having  been  looA  caluminated,  tt- 
Krtved  lo  act  hcCnre  Ibe  eyei  of  tai>  acciuen  the 
lufleriDffi  and  advenlurea  ne  could  perhapahjve 

potinc  a  tedious  volume  for  bia  juatllicationi  in- 
lenM  Ihii  new  ipedet  of  picloiial  biogTaphy. 
The  authoi  minnlcly  deictibed  the  Rmaikable 


.  — ._ch  other  in  giving 


dUcovering,  by  the  aidaf  Ibe  peocil,  rather  ibaii 

II  waiwben  the  Ottomaiu<>houilJ)IJ  attacked 
Ibe  isle  of  Cvprus,  that  ibu  Vvneiian  nobleman 

C)  prut,  and  alter  a  tkilful  defence,  which  conM 


OF  A  SIOQRAPET  PAINTED. 


T^ 


he  suddenly  Appcmd,  to  Ibi 
■nortifirilioB  ol  t  jiam  wht 
A  olqmnutc  lilmj  while  hi 

bftTlng  hitd  CO  commuD^catLot 


»t.  a  (labc  in  her  hanib,  Inmibcd  ituid  ri'uia 
'ielrbi  H  itnuna—-  She  hu  conquered  and  ruli;il 

of  Ihe  cjtwi  to  the  Pope'i  dominion.    Hij  <m\ 


ere,  the  cckhnted 
The  genealogical  In 


motlty  >D<I  UMeofaD 

itiwece,  \  Christ  U  eipirlng  on  the 


>onrai(.  with  a  Latin  iiucTlptl< 
dihmagh  ann,  and  Ihe  enen 

ajvlum.inthe  ycai  of  grace  IsJl." 
of  bii  KD,  agtd  K ■^-'- 


•iX, 


of  the  holjr  levulchre 
iji." 


:in,  Kniihed  with  the 


n  :  "  Overcome  by  violence  and  artifice,  all 

•d  before  bit  birth,  hb  inolbcr  wu  lU  le 

dcliTered  of  him,  full  of  life,  with  lU  the  Inrel 

'uhapb)',and  hb  Jlfevilb  greater  hipplDea 
E  ckxed  wilh  good  CHtune." 
A  plan  of  the  iile  of  Cyprus  where  V^ 


i'tKib^u 


happened. 


Nil  tnveb  to  ^[ypt— the  centre  figure  repiTstnts 
this  province  raiding  ita  right  hand  cxtcniled  lo- 
wardi  a  palm-tree,  aod  the  ^ft  Leaning  on  a  pyra> 


■old  il  Oalfiut'a  Hie  for  foa  li 
the  golden  age  oF  literary  curto^ 
thiDgi  were  not  rulnoui ;  and  tl 


rf  Ftwaoar 


ucribed  "Cekbialed  Ibroughou 


iH^^Cn^^i3^^ 


HianlgnmaavloJenualein,  where  he  wa*  nude 
kni^t  Dl  IheJioly  lepulchre— Ihe  principal  figure 
EPEacnIa  I>7v<oUoD,  lucribed  SiHta.  "  It  it  nl;e 
'ho  conducta  tne-'*    The  connpartmrnla  exhlMI 


Luded,  he  and  hit  companior 
litied  U  tnrcl  ia  Turkey  on 


_ ,, ._  hit  pontifical  habit,  ic- 

ccivea  him  *•  ■  knight  of  the  holy  «pulcbre.  array- 
placing  hli  iwonl  in  the  faandi'  of  Mudut,  His 
arrival  al  telhkm,  to  ace  the  cradle  of  the  Lord— 


Lin£  of  the  city  of  ranu>^>ta,  and  hb 


d^Krdf-^' She  hat  fedured  me  to  sUvety."  sii 
nailer  piclurei  eihibli  Ihe  diAcient  poimt  of  ihi 
land  M  Ctprua,  where  the  Tnrki  eflccleil  iliei 
Bcenn.  taaeiiu  retreating  to  Fimaeiuti,  vhici 
t  long  defended,  and  where  hli  cnwin,  a  ikilfn 
igineer,  waa  kilkd.    Th*  Tnrka  compelled  * 


of  Ihe  tnwh  and  the  palace,  where 
taken. —One  piclnre  iibibitK  him 
lie  a  haahaw,  who  has  him  stripped, 
his  sVren^h  and  fi>  his  price,  wnen 

isfortdDeo-again  he  v<  forced  To  labour, 
I  cask  Ol  water  on  his  ahoulden.— lo 


packages;  hi.  new  » 


CAUSE  AXD  PRETEIT. 


paialJDEp  irc  ptcu- 
bit  >UT«Tr — The  inUItQ*  Hgure 


nertSS  ■•'He  brenit  mfcl 
iD«dencc  at  Higiui.  The  Tnrlu  an  KCn  lind 
«  wilb  Iheti  plUiRC  wil  Ihor  iliTO—ln  on  o 
.jje  pkcinn  iR  ittti  two  vhiH  fm  rin ;  ■  romii 
lAdy  of  Cfprut  prcferriD^  dean  la  Ihe  lav  of  be 
k — ^«  —J  tk.  mipcrlct  of  tlAi-eTy,  ilclenninH 


Hr&til—"  She  hn  brougbl  mr  b«k."— Id  Ihe  lul 

J  ii  Vminj  be  mm  Ihe  boiue  of  tail  faUier  1 

the  old  man  haaciu  M  mecl  htm,  ind  embnceihiiii. 
One  pue  b  HUcd  hj  a  ^ngie  ^cture,  which  >c> 
prcaena  nc  tcnale  of  Vcnlec,  wiib  the  Doge  on 
fab  IhnH :  Migini  pnenB  u  ■ecoanl  of  h&  lUf- 
ferenCemploTinenUjaiidhahlainhUbaiHl  a*cn>U, 
n  Hbich  it  wrilHD,  Out*  (ntmlriin  ftrjul  i  fuai 
dial  mpntjim,  fmrtjUt  iniVfacIar— "  I  but  Jane 

hnn  with  Ibc  Hme  fMellly  whu  temuni  M  be 
Joae."  Heiiwcei«db7lheacoatewiihiheaion 
disllDguHhed  honoofl,  uid  wd  not  onlyjwlibcd, 
bnlpniird  and  honouKfl. 


ualion  ntiaed  igiituE  him  in  tbe  open  Kiut 
m  the  Turb  took  the  iile  of  Cyynn,  and  t 
familr  vanred  either  Ibe  con  hdeiKe  or  tbe  eotiTA 
to  dclicnd  Migiiii.  In  the  fmnl  of  Ihii  liigE  pi 
lure,  Higii»leiiUB|(  hit  nn  hylhc  band,  condac 
him  to  be  ReimcUed  wilh  bli  brothen  and  tiitb 

Dnii»>n<i»U  Slui  in  Wkih— "Yaa  Ihau|!hl  ill 
of  me^  but  the  Lord  hu  turned  it  10  ROod."    Ic 

on  tber  hftd  decwd  him 


(IlhiibmllT.inlh 
in8«ift«™;h" 


a  table  in  the  mUbl  of 
hand  aregardcai  o|ie0'- 


n  tbe  coj^iu  docriptioD 


im  Ihe  cWicteroflhc  nobk  KaKliia,a^  Ibc 

MilTcurMty.     II  ™  not  iodeed  wtthenl  •aax 
itahVc  that  I  ban  dmn  up  Uili  Utile  occouot ; 


oeteiiaihie,   motiie-     On   thb  principle  hiRory 

not  often  docrlbe  inaaultnai  and  ikaruim 
ai  the;  nniaUy  appear.  Whn  we  mistake  the 
characten  of  men*  we  fniitike  the  ojitiire  of  Ibeir 
acUau^  and  we  itull  had  in  tbe  Hndy  of  icctec 
hMorr.  thai  lome  of  the  moK  importul  eeeDB  id 
modem  bbtoTy  were  produced  ftvEft  <rtrf  dittErent 
than  tbdr  oReniibk  ono.     Mjbiiu,  tbe 


It  ptyioa^bicil  V 


augh  he  died  ten  je«n  before  the  i 


of  cventa;  for  the  inoat  tridiiigii 
to  matters  of  tbe  gieaml  moi 
ancE."    The  litter  piR  of  Ibii  . 
hiua  pointk  out  aoather  priDdptr  1 


iml"^lS. 


0  oppo 
re  hiendl)  la  the  chmtiinii  bn'i  I 


iioD.  eicelleaL  aa  jl>  rcnla  hare 

I  Ihe  pngenr  of  aeanre  Id  Oer- 
y  In  France,  end  of  lore  in  Snc- 
r  cleBantly  aUuded  to  bf  any, 

II  lint  beun-d  hum  BaUtn^ej-a." 


POLITICAL  FOROERIES  AXD  FICTIQKS 


Ihit  they  might  ipltl  tbe  tankdtncy  at  lh< 
Uxir  more  cuy  connuciti  ind  |dAj  Ihetn  otT  oni 
JmiKii^  CTDWn,  hertdftiryinlhcbDuieof  Aiirttii 


:f  or  |iuU.c  giicjii 
Alter  Ibc  pnncn  in 
!  in  victim.,  thii"U:i„__ 
been  Tonned  by  the  pnik 


ed  hy  the  pnde 
ikd  by  the  mi- 


re only  Kghliiig  to  riUau  i 

c.  rejiUd  Ihcm  witb  tbe  ur 

lied  u  liluran  Ihi'  frhiH  3 
t  pruoner  oT  the  Hupient  ~ 


Cbulet  I.  ind  Ihe  scotch  Corenanten ',  ind  Ibe 
ccmceming  the  lilE  tumulti  In  Ik-olUnd."  that 

he  dcmuiulrita  by  the  Jut)  he  ilkf^J.     Tbcre 

taking  the  nARie  </t  FrtnJfuri,  ihook  Ihit  ijn^ 

imifi,  and  held  out  tor  their  pretext  the  puhllc 
rrRdom.    But  thit  bclion,  compmnl  of  «>me 

wu  cnlireJy  ornniied  by  (^rdiiul  dc  Keti,  who 
held  tbem  In  naihl,  to  cheek  or  to  iipuT  tlwtn  v 
the  occaian  requind,  Cnim  ■  mrtc  pcnonil  ytnae 
iplul  Muuin,  who  hid  bo(  tteitcd  tlut  vivi- 

Thit  ipptfin  Irom  Id*  ovn  memolci. 


tbc  hincc  of  Onnge,  nppDrtcd  I 
"ThcH  una  Ibc  iM  louccn,"  ii 

cmtnnt  wttb  ttaa  ud  pubUi 
Ik  ibok  *blt  Judpi  ttau  Dkidul  tl 


5^,S 


1 1   ind  gnvely   narnle   the    idl 
pbntci  concemlnfr  preikfljnatia 


9^1 1  for  all  thine*  o< 


the  tBi  act,  thli  cnUi^ned  Hiaciple  of  Hacem- 

inlmduce  *nd  make  the  Catbolici  pnduuiinjte  in 

that  eucr  i-id  bSml  politician  huctied  ua  Ino  tir4, 
and  which  IheieAm  did  nnt  Ukv  place,  wmild 
have  been, that"  llKnvDli'Dnicicnce"v<nildwon 


what  the  heada  of 


onhdenllyiguoted.  Mr.  Hehet^  >uli(ni  eoolinnl 
lia  inquinn  to  theoloi^al  hi>li>ry;  he  haa  tpld 
a  that  *'  Aogmtine  Ih  not  atbamcd.  In  hi^  ih^ 
lute   with    Fauitii*,  to  lake  advantage  ttf  the 


fatKly  impulinilla  llie  U'athfihc  public  * 
againat  the  Honvian  bntbren  are  caact 


«7 


P-'LITICAL  F0I:G FRIES  AXD  FICTfOXS. 


v«  r    -.,  :_3C   k::-  :';  rr*.-.c:e  cil-r:=v   ••  Jc»* 

L  »  -  •        _  .     ..  _^__v,.  .as^       S^*        _,_•«•_  «V-,' 

■»  ■  . !  i  r  ■•- . ~  :>:—.*::  rrr. ri*  w^:* .--:  iny 
K.~  :  r  -■  -■-  _r;  .  is^  ;j,-:o  K%rr*.  i..:r.rr.t:«. 
*:  .:  i~;_i:  :--■  ::  i  ».:c.c  .-rr.  :iii:  c: 
X  .":■;•*  *L~*,  ■»•  1  .*  c  ■•  ??  -t  i»  I  p:c  -.kT  r-z:.  '-r ' 

L-r  ■  r-.-.  -  :.;  Z:  <i--"_r»  i  ri_  *  7 '.^r. ::: :-« 
.  i^  -    .     :  ^  <  _  -      *  'cc  ir  ^.-v .  -.  rr>  1 .  w  wT-.tirk. 

x:...  .  :  ;^-  :»":  ■.:::  :<  s..~;:cr»  i.:::r  :i£ 
p- xxx  ^.-  ::•  V:.-  LT;-*  tir  :_:.::»  r:  tr.e 
;  :-..-     :     ■  *   I-    . :  r.r.r^  ^ir-i-  '.^    .:"  hi* 

■  ^-  *  .     ■-  .         •  T^  --*-  -    «         mK      ^    .ft.        I7         •  .". 

.    *.•     ,'      "^'     ■*•     ^*  .'  *  *I      T  ■  ■     T*  •    '.  -  I-     ^  *-  -  ■"  r."»     ^r*" 

^.       *    ■         -         •  ,^L       ^  •■■  *    1  •         f  m  •  ^^»    ■    ™     ■   ■  ^  ^M^^M 


,. ...^  ....-_  ..^  ..  1;- _.-!_:--  a:  ir..^-* 
.■■-■..■■.•-  '.•  <  ■■.•  ?*.■-.•  ii  - -•':  :-.i  Vi;?wj- 
•.  . -»  .   _  '^. -v    ■•      >...;   .»:."■?  ."-^r  .•:"  i  us: 

••        -•  *v "   *     %   ■    "   "1  ■-.  ■    ■■  ■■  ■    «  —     ~^^  A~    "  •  "         ""  '^     "HI"      -  ^ 

^-  ■■,     ■■s.'N  it  A  ~  *■ . :»  ^i:;.  .".t-..,-^  :r.t  .i:.:"_r>    '. 

..■■-■«  "V  .  ■  T  ■* '  .  •■    ■  •■  ."•' .  ".•  '.~.  ■■•    "■■  T '  i  •  r  1  .■"".■ ;    ; : 
'     "."■■..".   ':..■"".?■.■■•.'  «.         .*     "•.  •  ".k  r  . :.    »l 
■*.%-•   *-   ■. :    ■•:";-       >..-•.    -:   vTr  -:■  «r_  * 
vc  v:i  .•.:;.-.■»  T'r  .-  ■■:   :■   :    -.ir.i-i- -l; 
«     •■..!  «.  ..^..ji...*:  jw? . .  "• 

—  .^  -~v-.*   ••~i~-".\.~-*--x"  •■      —.-*...»  — 

■  ■>  Vj-    *•;;'■;    ."  ■■*•;  ."". ;    t~  :  ■-.   .     I*.".?; 

•"r  ,  .i-*   .  ■  V."-   -  r*  :-i    >-*■.«..-.  «7U-   .J 

.  .V.  ".."■»  f\  •:     ■  :r,-  «  .-•  •7<tv.v:c?  »-  .r. 

xicr?   :•...-   *■.<.-.  .•   ..";-«  ri.;r  "u-'tt^  ^> 

.  .\   ."■.',   .  '.  i::  ,"*■■,  \  .*:■  .ii;   *.  .ir^T^-t   "-.sr.sieT 

*•  ^  •  .  '  ....  I  ..,  ..  ,:  »  J,  «.  -. .',  .  -  .— -,  .■.■r».~-i-.. 
»".".■«  '■*»  ■  •..«'.v\:t..  .?  .'i.  r;Tf>:r;f.: 
.'.  »...■■;■  .v^*',  \»^.:»»»r  w  I*  r..*:  i^-ri '.. -J  v  ^:* 
•.M.'-.v    v**     ••«»■  \    »..-'.  ..V    »v.-,    '.<'    \T^,    i 

Nw^  "^  •:  ■■  ^'■:  'sr  .-.-jwv  .7  .'  p  .  ■.:,  ^_  v-r- 
^\  ,■»  .  ■.  ■  ,■»■.»  .::  >jk»f  i<-cr  >.-:-i:rr.e* 
■\  .'nn  :.*  *«  ^.  -.  :•.-.  :■..:  ji-x  '."".c  r^t--.::.  r.*  .: 
M    \   » -.1    *ii: ■■■.«.■»  ■     |^k%  »*   j'.'ct" -■".•»->    r''^Tif*. 

•     ^A  a'**.  .^_  .  '        .ft      .*%  ..."  ■  &■  ^  ^  ■  ..  K 

_  %_    a  *  ^..  *lf.a.a-a  *a.         A*^  ■^•■a«a.»         ••*  •. 

xi»\'  a"*.'  i.  !.•■*•  •-'.;■.•.  "vr  i:".:v  <:;-'>  a^c  »*r  >  ir.:  % 
»»,«..■  "  H.'«  ••  \\  .»"r  »:  i.j-;  ..■.  f— aT  i»  :r.; 
VI  An  »»'  t^»"  *.\uvi";>.  »,■.-.; -^  ■  :r.*^  «•!  :rr 
.ss-iM';  ur  *  ^  Isr  r.*  »•*•  »,:  »f  •:•  ;.::ure  ic*-^. 
^•%  ."x'*  «■■  .  »:■.  .  I>c  |*T\>*"»,%;  v.  J'.;"  j»  ;  rrAT  f* 
I  •*».■  t;i  *iM  Aili  v».:>a  \i  ••»>.  vvc  ^aA»e  Tirr.- 
vifcVw  » vj>;vM  i\ti!.tinv.  T\:v.c?  .;**;c:ev:.»'r,  *-:r.>: 
XyC'V^  \\  ^,-^\  \, '».'.•<  Mi'Mr.J..  the  ^ra•t^.rr  tc 
■".«  is\AUM.  in  *»jj,:  :.'  y«*  w.k  the  CT;a:e  c:  xtt 

U  — 


uski90:n^tion  of  the  Ke^^mt  Murray,  «»  ctn|>ioved 
to  drjiw  up  a  pretcndcii  cnnfcivxice  between  hjm, 
kcox.  ind  uther«,  to  '•ti^matisc  them  by  tbe  odinin 
ci  at!v»in<  to  dethrone  the  voung  moiurch.  ud 
to  «ui>fticute  tbe  repeat  for  tbeir  sorereit;ii.  Mad* 
Ixnd  produced  90  dramatic  a  pcrformaiicr,  by 
c--:=^  to  each  perw^n  hi^  peculiar  mode  ot  ci» 
7re^.s  n.  that  this  circuni'^t  mce  long  baffled  the 
:r.t:rt:>lula!v  of  thoK  whii  could  not  in  coniequnicc 
(.CTaV  ::..*  truth  nf  1  n.\rrj.tivc  appjrcntly  so  comet  ' 
.::  :t>  ;  .i,rtit:i:lars  ! 

A:r.^-r.^  juch  party  namtives,  th?  tiorrid  taie  cf  I 
:Le  M.>dy  Coi<-«ncl  kirk,  Hume  has  \.orkAii>p  I 
«::^.  a.1  h:«  elt.- lucr.ce  and  pathos:  and,  from  iti 
;=.'.crj*:.  r.»  *'.»r>>»^'n  has  atri'^en  of  its  truth.  \A, 
V  :;.r  .%.*  it  cin^cmN  Kirk,  ir  the  rciiin  of  Jair.w 
iLe  >s^ci^tl,  or  cwn  Encli^  hist<  r>-,  it  is,  as  kii<i 
zx  t  -r.cy'..y  e\;  rr«c«  it,  *'  an  impudent  aud  bi.t- 
:i^t«:  .:e  ■  ■  The  Mir.pie  fact  is  told  by  Kenoetis 
rrw  *  ris  .  he  pm^.i*  .y  was  aware  of  the  oitux 
-•  :;..*  pl.::cil  r.ctic'n.  Hume  was  not,  indeed, 
ha7.-a-e.:  :r.e  firncit  r  1 1  the  tale;  but  he  had  not 
iz..  :.:*ZT'mC-^  ii-:^.or:ty.  The  >rii;in  ol  thi^f^bk 
■»  -•  7-: :  i-  a*  1  p,.-u*  irV.ud  oi  x\w  Wlii^  pany.to 
».'..—.  k::K  r.iJ  rtn.l-.Te.J  himvit  iKii^mi;  at  i bit 
~  -r.;=:  «:.r:v*  *::.;  rr.r-r^  ttmf.in.^  ucrc  .nveJily 
j-i—r^arJ.  icd  Ri:»-'n  a:«:r.uaTc^,  have  become  a 
r^-.  :  'hr  ^.a»^  n  0:  h::^:.ind.  "I  hc(ri,nnil-!.;r>, 
7..::=-  :r. ."re  c:rw-nr.5M;::iki:y,  f.nimh  not  m:rc 
ir^:'..T^...  E.r  ;er:it;K  n-.t-rc  truiv,  miv  hf  f  unil 
■aZ  'A  ,:_i.  »   "  W  -sJ.TN  r:    thf  I,lt:;f  Wr.rlda"*    1 

w  — :■:-.::  :■  r.*e  ::.c  ii:i:i'!'.nt,reiic\jn;;  it  smai 

A  ,:  :::  •  !  Zsx.it.1,  ULiocr  the  IkU  Duke  f4 
E. :%..=  -  .  -  .7.  *  .;r.  '-^u.;":::  i:>  reduce  tlie  aiiec- 
'..  r.«  a"  ::..  :<i-.:*:*V:  vi:!j  o:  j  ini/cn.  The 
«  ■■  .-rr-.r  ■— ;  •  *  r*  The  hu^r  .n<I  en  .in  .-».«.  u-jticr. 
f i>T. .  \:  :  \i:.--  •■-..■  ■.%.:■.■  :i7;-c.in:d  a*  tKc 
»-;;..ij-.T. :-.-  .it  err  Ta  1  v..r  •.:  -  vr  ,■:  e/.iiuci  f,  | 
j-,::era.-...  ij  a  a  1 ;-.    r.  ■...■..  j  ..m  t;.  it  :.\:r  hu-f" ir.  i-  i 

a      .?      .:  a.,    i     iT...         ;<      'f'.'r:      ■     :•      ..LT     V  .TT.falllK..  I  c 

w.TT'.is,  :-  :.ir»  tr..:  :r.   ..>>.   r.,  ii;.:  r.  •  »:■.,  :.' 
.%  ."■.   pe  .-:  leror.ir..?  .—.a.  .-.i..i>e  i..i-st  l.er  L.  n'-i.:' 
F"    r.:.r.z  '.r  :.-.?  pr-.s  r..  -r.i  c  Acrn.r  t..ld  h^r, -Ii  | 
>;:.»««£»  .--:  h;>r  ir.v-.  -rt.r  '.hL-ro,  JUil  iik-.-  h:nj 
J-   r.^w.'..';   I-.:    *    The  w  ::-,.*,  jr  the  1-ittcnies*  H  ■ 
.-;r  ::. :v.;h:?.  %e:  n--:  u:::«-u:  the  c<uw:.t:ion  thit 
*he   ::ii  »:•.«,. r,c\l  her   hi.s:  ir.d  frmi  the  -.irirc, 
pa.-««e\i   :r.ro  the   pravn  ;    rhLre  in  a  cci:,  ti-  her 
*.<  -isiirr.ens  and  h.-rrrr.  she  itchtald  the  ci.Ti*<  nf 
"£T  ^-jrir.-  .^.^  :u:  ir.  j.  »..t!:r..  reailv  ti-r  l.uri.J' 
M  urr..=c  c".  CT  jt,  she    v:  Ivn^h  retiirned  tn  :Ijc  . 
c.-iirTa  r,  rcr.:e:»    exc:a!::::nc',  "  Y- u  hj*c  kr;-r  . 
>    War  » .-ri  ■  V   i:  ha»e  re*t.  r^rd  to  me  m»  hu-bain-: '  i 
.ir.^  ie  a.v"-~d  the  tn-ur  -.hai::  be  reji-.d!"     IT:: 
:r.:-..r*.ic  *  ..i.n,  tem'-e.i  m  tLe  pre^r.^e  c  l.i* 
:r.:r.7..i  I'..*.  :r..   a::emj;ed  to  appean;    her  icj- 
ifeir^e.  ar.»:  r::.-re.  to  vk:7a  her  to  his  vki»he«.     Re- 
'.a  -^.r.c  h;:rc,  sr.e  aiserr  .  .cd  her  fner.ls,  ri.re.ilol 
:..-  ■».■.■  e  sr.n.an.i  ur.ccr  their  pK-ieiti  n  »:ic  i 
■;  r<e...e^i  :.-<  C.-.irle*  the  B-  ..i.  .  sinci  l..ier  m    li-  I 
:  ..».    kTssi    uho    new    a'Ajr>:-.<i    1    •:n.:ulir    but 
air.  c\er".7lar\  c«i*:Tnphe.    The  dtiiwe  r  *l  com- 
r'.Ar..:eo  :hi:  the  i:r.:r.:r.ai.  ci^-.T:i>r>hi.  ii.d  mstantlr  ■ 
rr.xm  The  w.^Tian  wRom  he  had  ir.iije  a  «id<i«,  ! 
ar.i  a;  the  Mn:e  tin-.e  *iga  his  wilL,  wr.h  a  clause 
1 3;pcrt:r.^,  that  should  he  die  bet:  re  L:^  :.ijr  he 

*  lock  lUa  ch  xx:x  ,  xc.  in 


EXPSESSroX  OE  SUPPRESSEb  OPflffOS. 


coDiiiluled  b 


.fu  cDoductcd  (o  the  priub  to  aufler  ihc 

r  Ibc  priion,  ibe  beheld  hci  lecond  buihaml 
a  In  bit  mflin  u  ibe  hul  bcr  lint  I    Bucb 
dimry  ineidenti  in  w  ihort  •  pciiod  over- 
powered Ihc  feeble  fnme  of  the  fuOerer  t  the  dinl 


taU,  and  ruied  tpo  in  the  telling,  the  ume  itorj', 
which  he  hu  Jtpp&ed  to  diflerenl  penoni,     A 

scribbled  the  llvn  ol  ibe  oniDn,  nude  iip  of  filit 


Abhiu  Uneelloni,  FnrJaUoiu  ilfb  ^laSi  Half 

uH-enoK  molbn. 

rF(i.-"nin<-fl>m>  of  the   u^ur     Modem 

Such  11  Ibc  ulc  of  which  the  pirlr-Mory  oT  Kirk 

hiiurluu  hire  to  diqHile  that  pungc  lo  immor- 

Ulilynep  hvMepi  ind  bowercr  fervid  be  their 
eloquence,  their  reil  tat  n  to  r^ue,  mu.!  b« 

not  by  the  by ;  in  Ibe  genenr,  not  in  Ihc  pirticu- 

bnutfil  to  the  bumble  nretencn  In  their  mirgin. 
Yet  IheK  mm  Dollenninucoar  Inquiries  Kirin 

lir.    It  WB  not  Decesiry  to  point  out  the  ptocnt 

tncing  1  uorr  to  Iti  ocigiiul  fouree.  we  iball  find 

»««ee,  when  m  nuny  oiben  of  .  p«.llel  niute 

»bt.    Tliii  ndc,  nnitennlly  told,  Mr.  Douce  con- 

or  hemin,  lod  to  lepuile  Ihcm  »  Ibcy  appeared 
In  tbeir  ixM  tap,  ii  ibe  pride  and  ghiTy  of  learned 

Mtn  u  the  orldnof"  Mcuure  ItoT  Ueuun,"  and 

Iriica,  wilboui  «r  of  iKident    11  ihnijc  tonii 

on  ■  K^lei.  >  htMbci.  or  ■  hudund  ewcoled , 

BXPRBSSION  OF  SUPPRESSED  OPINION. 

nd  ■  wifcor  wtct,  1  deceived  rkUm.ta  aie 

Ihem  fTom  deub.   It  wu,  thaeloR,  odlv  Iraio- 

A  raofLi  denied  ibe  freedom  of  ipecch  or  of 

femd  to  Kn«..Bd  Ponfin-.  poem  of-'c™e«y 

indLu«"longinidelhe««ypopot.r.    11  could 

feeling,  in  Ibal  .llent  bnguage  which  add>«et 

ai  "a  itory  etmmtnlj  ttU  of  himj"  but  popular 
Inigir  iDTnanee*  thould  not  enter  inio  the  duuy 
documents  of  a  blHory  of  England,  aod  much  kev 
be  panieululy  ipeciiied  In  Ibe  index.  BcUeroren, 
in  hii  old  venlon  of  Ihc  tale,  hu  even  the  circum- 
itance  of  "  the  capt^n,  who  barintf  leJuced  The 
wile  under  IhepmnlK  to  are  her  boiband'i  life, 

^  lor  mfarnuia  nuMihlril  H  a  gM^i."  Thii 
fbrmi  the  horrid  Incident  In  the  hiuoijrof  "the 
bloody  Cokmel,"  and  Krred  the  purpoie  of  a 
party,  who  wUhed  to  bury  blm  in  odium.    Kirk 

greal  t^uitcrer,  who  would  loinclimci  threaten  to 
Onjnuie  bii  own  regiment ;  but  il  !•  uid  forgot 
the  menace  the  next  <l>r.    Hateful  •>  inch  mili- 

CokHKl  Klifc  b»  heen  thamcfully  calumnialed  hy 
poeti  and  hittoriani,  who  ultcr  themaclvei  to  be 
duped  by  the  forgerld  of  pDlilicai  paflia. 

While  we  ace  deuclins  ■  source  of  etmi  into 
wbkh  the  party  feeUnn  oifnodera  hlnoriani  nuy 
lead  lb«n.  lei  ui  codI»  thai  they  are  hr  mm 


Crilica,  byproridi^^  -..*— . -— , 

and  it  Ii  only  by  judiciously  appncialinii  these 
Ibal  we  may  conMently  accept  of  their  Jiieoie- 
lies.    CJiuinestionably 

iniduced  fnto  ■'■-'-  ■■■■ 


inelf  lo  the  e)'e.    Many  Ingent 

ley  could  not  truic  to  the  voice  or  the  pen,  they 
■re  carved  in  wood,  or  aculpiured  on  none ;  and 

mong  the  playful  orn '"' — -■ 


icape.fr 


e  these 


vould  doubddi  have  afforded  to 

the  present  article.    In  those  rt 

Ic  ra/icilism,  when  the  senate  wi 

the  Pi/cBi,  or  cap  of  liberty,  was 

man  Uws,  might  he  uld  la  have  t 


EXPBE!iSr01f  OF  SUPPRESSED  OPIXIOX. 


thtm  wilh  grotoQiw:  li^nm,  ot  nU  ilevicct.— 

h«T  labDun  u  Ihe  koraui  people  1  MM  tbioi^ 
wen  done  in  mockery^  thb  Due  tnclAl  b  tumped 

our  uiliquiTy  btppUy  nplaim.*  In  (he  true  ^hit 
or  Ihii  Boreniiiient  of  modKiy,  ialutiuUtm  »*■ 
Htttt,  ineelaiE  wldi  the  Icnnd  of  Ibe  mme, 
Incriho)  in  The  miibt  o(  Isiir   ro/i.  o>  Ikwo, 

Hflf  jf^—'*  Lei  Ihem  who  pby  aire  ■  ple^tei  wmcb 
will  be  Himcient."  "nil  mock  moDey  lerveil  sol 
only  u  ui  expfeatom  of  the  nutive  Lnmy  of  Ibe 
radical  Eentrr  of  Rome  during  rhefr  feMivali  but 
bid  Ihey  ipoken  Ibelr  miml  oul,  meiint  a  ridicnie 
of  mooe/ Lixlf;  for  thcK  citiicni  of  equJillty  have 
jilwjLn  iim^ned  Ihjt  nciely  might  procna  wilh- 


glean  but  apanngly  fnni  Ihe  lolcinn  paget  of  the 
hiuorian.  except  in  the  renurkibJe  intincc  which 

foJioved  the  body  of  Ihe  Impcror  VcspasiM  al 

accompinied  the  generai  lo  whom  they  gnnied  a 

LieeniiouHicaa  of  ha  tongue.were  bolh  the  organa 
of  popular  feeling,  and  Uudied  to  gratirythc  rah- 


le  arch-mime,  lepreieBting  both   the  exierloi 
snoniBe  and  Ihe  chancier  d[  Vopaiiin,  afcord' 

I  alJuann  to  ihe  love  of  money  which  charaC' 
Tiacd  the  empenr,  hi*  mock  lepreientBlive  ex- 

mwmybodyi^Qlhe-n^?^''*        '    '*™ 
All  iheie  mock  offica  jnd  fettirali  among  [be 
icicnlj,  I    coniidcr   aa  Divan«  of  the  tupprc«^d 


The  time  haa  perhup^  arrived  when   auliquarib 
may  be^in  to  be  phili^ophen,  an<l  phiknophrn 

from  philQBophv,  and  ol  pfaikAopl^y  from  enidj- 
UoD,  bu  taiiheVlo  Ihrottn  ImpcdimcuEa    iu  Ihe 


■  rjpacimu  dergv.  who  ihrarcd 


I  *  Ihe  deacription  of  a  pielun  of  thia  fcra 
n  the  Abhey  of  Fulda,  among  other  er 

Ibe  pmcnt  vu  a  wolf,  large  aa  life,  wearing 
nnkbh  cowl,  wilh  a  ibaTcn  crown,  preaching  lo 
Hock  Dl  iheep,  with  tbcte  woiili  ot  the  aponle  in 


wa.  in«r.hed,-" 
Itfware  of   falie  pfophcD  I'  * 


Iding  in  hit  bill  hrt  prrfying  beads  I     In  the 

d  Dthen  man  indelicate.    Theie,  probably  ai 

I  aa  the  year  ijoo,  wen  cngraTcn  in  iti;,  by  ■ 

..Heitanl!  and  were  not  deilroyed  till  iMJ.  by 

the  pioui  rage  of  Ihe  Catholica,  who  seemi;  '   -■- 

len^h  to  have  rightly  construed  thcae  ailcnt 


cy  linilt  cbnrchei  they  aaiiriied  the  n 
let*  Htirited  each  other,  and  that  ■ 


nun,  holding  a  platter  rn  ib  pawl  to  a  ma 
an  ibboa'a  veil,  moimted  on  ailLta;  (he  aei  marked 


t^JXx^^ 


a  UcI.Mem.  ].  adan 


i-^-"r'f\t. 


EXP  HESS  lOy  OP  SUPPRESSED  OPINION, 


43S 


topic,  like  the  curates  In  our  church, 
the  pampered  abbot  and  the  ponti- 
Chorchmen  were  the  u^u^I  objects 
preMcd  indication  of  the  people  in 
but  the  knights  and  feudal  lordi  have 
escaped  from  the  **  curses  not  loud, 
of  their  satirical  pencils, 
.eftannation,  or  rtther  the  Rerolution, 
ing,  thn  custom  became  so  general, 
:  of  the  dialogues  of  Erasmus,  where 
cans  are  entertained  b^  their  host,  it 
t  such  satirical  exhibitions  were  hung 
mon  furniture  in  the  apartments  of 
facetious  genius  of  Erasmus  either 
iocribes  one  which  he  had  seen  of  an 
tubit  of  a  Franciscan  Mtting  by  a  sick 
,  ciispensing  ghostly  counsel,  holding 
fix  in  one  hand,  while  with  the  other 
ig  a  pufse  out  of  the  Mck  man's  pocket, 
we  straws  *'  by  which  we  may  always 
>m  what  comer  the  wind  rises  I  Mr. 
I  recently  informed  u%  that  Geyler, 
alb  "  the  herald  of  the  Reformation," 
Luther  by  twelve  years,  had  a  stone 
Ipit  in  the'  cathedral'  at  Stnsbnrg,  from 
delivered  his  lectures,  or  rather  rolled 
rs  of  hi<  anathemas  agnin^t  the  monks, 
pulpit  was  constructed  under  his  own 
fence,  and  is  covered  with  very  indecent 
nonks  and  nun«,  expressly  designed  by 
io*e  their  profligate  manners.  We  see 
s  doing  what  for  centuries  had  been 

urious  folios  of  Sauval,  the  Stowe  of 

Te  b  a  copious  chapter  entitled  "  Hire- 

•t  attentats."    In  this  enumeration  of 

npts  to  give  vent  to  tiieir  suppressed 

1,  it  is  verv  remarkable,  that  preceding 

'  Luther,  the  minds  of  many  were  pcr- 

trran  respecting  the  idolatrous  worship 

nan  church  ;  and  what  I  now  notice 

e  rightly  entered  into  that  significant 

^ermation'u  ante  Re/ormationem,  which 

ly  projected  by  continental  writers. 

Jtd  not  consi^  the  pope's  decretab  to 

till  i^ao — this  was  the  first  open  act  of 

a  and  msurrcction,  for  hitherto  he  had 

to  the  court  of  Rome.    Yet  In  1400, 

t  preceding  this  great  event,  I  find  a 

nt  for  havmg   snatched   the    host   in 

oih  the  hanai  of  another  celebrating 

reive  years  afterwards,  150a,  a  student 

le  same  deed,  trampling  on  it ;  and  in 

resolute  death  of   Anne  de   Bourg,  a 

in  the  parliament  of  Paris,  to  use  the 

of  Sauval,  "  corrupted  the  world."    It 

that  the  Huguenots  were  fast  on  tne 

Prom  that  period  I    find    continued 

which  prove    that    the    Huguenots  of 

;e  the  Puritans  of  En^and,  were  most 

trooclasts.    They  struck  off  the  heads  of 

i  little  Jesuses,  or  blunted  their  daggers 

g  the  wooden  saints,  which  were  uien 

le  comers  of  streets.     Every  morning 

the    scandalous   treatment  they  had 

in  the  night.    Then  their  images  were 

I  the  walls,  but  these  were  heretically 

an«l  distiffured ;   and,  since  the  saints 

defend  memselTes,  a  royal  edict  was 


published  in  their  favour,  commanding  that  all 
holy  paintings  in  the  streets  should  not  be  allowed 
%l>ort  of  ten  feet  from  the  ground  *  They  entered 
churches  at  night,  tearing  up  or  bre.tki'ng  down 
their  prianj,  their  benitotret,  their  crucifixes,  their 
colossal  ecee-homot.  which  they  did  not  always 
succeed  in  dislodging  for  ^ant  bf  time  or  tools. 
Amidst  these  battles  with  wooden  adversaries,  we 
may  smile  at  the  frequent  solemn  orocesMons 
instittited  to  ward  off  the  vengeance  of  the  parish 
saint ;  the  wooden  was  expiated  bv  a  silver  image, 
secured  by  iron  bars,  and  attenoed  by  the  king 
and  the  nobility,  earning  the  new  saint,  with 
prayers  that  be  would  protect  himself  from  the 
heretics  1 

In  an  early  period  of  the  Reformation,  an  instance 
occurs  of  the  art  of  concealing  what  we  wi>h  only 
the  few  should  comprehend,  at  the  same  time  that 
we  are  addressing  the  public.  Curious  collectors 
are  acquainted  with  "  The  Olivetan  Bible :"  this 
was  the  first  translation  published  by  the  Protes- 
tants, and  there  seems  no  doubt  that  Calvin  was 
the  chief,  if  not  the  only  translator ;  but  at  that 
moment  not  choo^ng  to  become  responsible  for 
this  new  version,  he  made  use  of  the  name  of  an 
obscure  relative,  Robert  Pierre  Olivetan.  Calvin, 
however,  prefixed  a  Latin  preface,  remarkable  for 
delii'ering  positions  very  opposite  to  tlnse  tre- 
mcndous  doctrines  of  absolute  predestination, 
which  in  his  theological  despotism  he  aftcrvi'ards 
assumed.  De  Bute  describes  this  first  Protestant 
Bible  not  only  as  rare,  but  when  found  as  usually 
imperfect,  much  soiled,  and  dog-eared,  as  the  well- 
read  first  edition  of  8hake^peare,  by  the  perpetual 
use  of  the  multitude.  But  a  curious  fact  has 
escaped  the  detection  both  of  De  Bure  and  Beloe  ; 
at  the  end  of  the  volume  are  found  im  x'ersei, 
which,  in  a  concealed  manner,  authenticate  the 
translation ;  and  which  no  one,  unless  initiated 
into  the  secret,  could  possiblv  suspect.  I'lie  verses 
are  not  poetical,  but  I  give  tne  firrt  sentence : 

Lecteur  entends  si  verite  adresse 
Viens  done  ouyr  instament  sa  promesse 
Et  vif  parler. 8cc. 

The  first  tetters  </"  rt-ery  ^ntrd  of  these  ten  verses 
form  a  perfect  distich,  containing  information  im- 
portant to  those  to  whom  the  Olivetan  Bible  was 
addressed. 

Les  Vaudois,  peuple  ^vang^lique 
Ont  mis  ce  thresor  en  publique. 

An  anagram  had  been  too  inartificial  a  contriv- 
ance to  have  answered  the  purpose  of  concealing 
from  the  world  at  large  this  secret.  Inhere  is  an 
adroitness  in  the  invention  of  the  initial  letters  of 
all  the  words  through  these  ten  vercs.  Thej 
contained  a  communication  necessary  to  authenti- 
cate the  version,  hut  which,  at  the  same  time, 
could  not  be  sutpected  by  any  person  not  entrusted 
with  the  secret. 

When  the  art  of  medal-engraving  was  rwived  in 
Europe,  the  spirit,  we  are  now  noticing,  took 
possession  of  ttUMe  less  perishable  and  more  circu- 
lating vehicles.  Satiric  medab  were  almost  un- 
known to  the  ancient  mint,  notwithi^anding  those 
of  the  Saturnalia,  and  a  few  which  bear  miserable 
puns  on  the  unlucky  names  of  some  consub. 
Medab  illustrate  history,  and  history  reflects  light 


EIPRESarOS  OF  SUPPRESSED  OPISIOS. 


lam  oE  the  RtiiDfoutlDD ;  for  we  tind  i  mccUl 
Luther  ID  fl  monk'i  tvbili  Htincallj' baling  for 
Ktmt  Cilboinc  di  Bon,  the  nun  vhom  tl 
nimk  hunied;  vhe  Anl  Hep  of  bii  pcnonbl  i 
brmukinT    Notcinm  be  cenvn  tlui  CUheri 

thjtn  ippun  in  ^  Tolurnjnous  uva  vc  have 
[he  great  felbrmer.    Howe^'cr,  the  teformen  wr 

CK  Pope  John  VJIl,,  an  cflemiuLte  volupiuuy,  i 


the  (i#n  on  her  hud,  flnd  the  keya  of  St.  Prl^  i 

gov'cmment  were  nude  ridiculous  to  inc  people') 

wiih  every  n^gtiTired  circumitancc  of  defc 
IbjiT  could  dugracc  a  feuule  heuiT,  flemto 

wilh  M.  K.  «nd  A.  in  fi|HUli»  vcompuii.  .  ., 
imall  letten;  Mati*  Ruiiu  An^urlAnam'baoi 
SpmiiTib  were  flickinR  her  at  lEin  ind  bone,  and 
ft  ipecihcatlon  wu  wied  of  the  moncirt 
Jeweb,  And  other  praentt  with  which  ihi 
■nretlx  grirjAed  her  hiubmd  ttiilip."  •  It 
that  ine  queen  lutpected  tome  of  her  own  ei 


e,  wUch  li  tupprntedhj^kutborily^fi 

>■'•  hevl  with  ipccti,cki  refldmg,  t  goo^  holiUn 
■  lOHiy  :  the  flee  ii  mide  out  with  i  Aih  for  1h 

which  rotlsof  pvchment  pardoDihaoE.t 


tThii  udent  cartcttare,  w  dctctipliTe  ' 

Kpulir  lEeling^  li  lolenb))' einn  in  He.  Hilcolm'i 
itocT  of  "  CuKaturin^"  plate  ii.  fig.  i . 


er^  Bcnurd  de  Oalen, 
■uch  celebrity  Ibil  he 


ick»  and  ^ving  ouE  the  charve  when  he  oughl 
id  "  the  buhop  of  Muniler  "  beeame  popular  aa 


end  in  (he 

baduken 

w  a  centaur  appean  ihooMDiF  wit 

rea 

^■trt: 

Klc  was  operated  bjr  big  little  rep 
al  iaelf  if  engnten  in  Van  Loon'i 

med 

HUliirt  MidaiU^iu 

againvt  twenty  amhon  that  the  Dutch  ambaaad 

worthjr  of  him,  and  umred^i'  conveyed  Eo  I 
world  the  high  feeling  of  her  power  which  HolUi 
had  (hen  aaaumed.    Two  year*  after  the  noi 

odd  thai  the  phiegmaljc  Dutch,  more  than   u 


I 


EXPRESSION  OF  SUPPRESSED  OPINION, 


437 


od»r  nation,  and  from  the  earliest  period  of  their 
n^ublic,  should  have  indulged  freely,  if  not  licen- 
tioosly.  It  was  a  republican  humour.  Their  taste 
vas  usually  gross.  We  owe  to  them,  even  in  the 
iiB^  of  Elizabeth,  a  severe  medal  on  Leicester, 
vbo  having  retired  in  disgust  from  the  govern- ' 
nent  of  their  provinces,  struck  a  medal  ^th  his 
bust,  reverse  a  dog  and  sheep, 

W*n  S^gffi^  *fd  ingraft  invitiu  dturo ; 

en  which  the  angry  juvenile  rtates  struck  another, 
lepresenting  an  ape  and  young  ones;  reverse, 
Leicester  near  a  fire, 

Fuperu/vnuan,  meidit  in  igmm. 

Another  medal,  with  an  excellent  portrait  of 
Cromwell,  was  struck  by  the  Dutch.  The  pro- 
tector, crowned  with  laurels,  is  on  his  knees,  lay- 
faig  hb  bead  in  the  lap  of  the  commonwealth,  but 
loosely  exhibiting  himself  to  the  French  and 
Spannh  ambassadors  with  gross  indecency:  the 
Frenchman,  covered  with  .ftmrt  dt  lit,  is  pushing 
aside  the  grave  Don,  and  disputes  with  him  the 
precedence — Retin  toy;  thonneur  appart'unt  au 
nj  mtn  tHoitrt,  Lntit  U  Grand.  Van  Loon  u 
rery  ri^t  in  denouncing  this  same  medal,  so 
grossly  flattering  to  the  English,  as  most  detestable 
aad  indelicate!  But  why  does  Van  Loon  envy 
vm  tfab  Inmpirii  invention  ?  why  does  the  Dutch- 
man quarrel  with  his  own  cheese  ?  Tlie  honour 
of  ttie  medal  we  claim,  but  the  invention  belongs 
to  bis  country.  The  Dutch  went  on,  commenting 
ia  this  manner  on  English  affairs,  from  reign  to 
reign.  Charles  the  Second  declared  war  acainst 
tiiem  in  167a  for  a  malicious  medal,  though  the 
States-GencFal  offered  to  break  the  die,  by  pur- 
duoing  it  of  the  workman  for  one  thousand 
ducats;  but  it  served  for  a  pretext  for  a  Dutch 
war,  which  Charles  cared  more  about  than  the 
mala  btttia  of  bis  exerp^e.  Charles  also  com- 
irfuned  of  a  scandalous  picture  which  the  brothers 
De  Witt  had  in  their  lu>use,  representing  a  naval 
battle  with  the  English.  Charles  the  Second  seems 
to  have  been  more  sensible  to  this  sort  of  national 
satire  than  we  might  have  expected  in  a  professed 
wit;  a  race,  however,  who  are  not  the  most 
patient  in  having  their  own  sauce  returned  to 
their  lips.  The  king  employed  Evelyn  to  write  a 
bistoiy  of  the  Dutch  war,  and  "  enjoined  him  to 
makg  it  a  UttU  kten,  for  the  Hollanders  had  very 
onhandsomely  abused  him  in  their  pictures,  books, 
and  libels."  The  Dutch  continuecl  their  career  of 
conve}-ing  their  national  feeling  on  English  affairs 
more  triumphantly  when  their  stadtholder  ascended 
an  English  throne*.  Tlie  birth  of  the  Pretender  b 
represented  by  the  chest  which  Minerva  spve  to 
the  daugiiters  of  Cecrops  to  keep,  and  which, 
opened,  discovered  an  infant  with  a  serpent's  tail : 
If^fantemque  •vident  appwtctumqut  dracorum;  the 
cbMSt  perhaps  alluding  to  the  removes  of  the 
warming-pan  :  and  in  another,  James  and  a  Jesuit 
flying  in  terror,  the  king  throwing  away  a  crown 
and  sceptre,  and  the  Jesuit  carrying  a  child,  //#, 
mitta  ettf  the  words  applied  from  the  mam.  But 
in  these  contests  of  national  feeling,  while  the 
grandeur  of  Loub  die  Fourteenth  md  not  allow 
of  these  ludicrous  and  satirical  exhibitions ;  and 
the  political  idolatry  which  his  forty  academicians 
paid  to  hsmi  exhausted  itself  in  the  splendid  fic- 


tions of  a  series  of  fiunous  medab,  amounting  to 
nearly  four  hundred ;  it  appears  that  we  were  not 
without  our  reprisab :  for  I  find  Prosper  Marchand, 
who  writes  as  a  Hollander,  censuring  hL  own 
country  for  having  at  length  adulatea  the  grand 
monarque  bv  a  compliment;r}'  medal.  He  savs, 
'*  The  Englisn  cannot  be  reproached  with  a  similar 
dtbonMrtti."  After  the  famous  victories  of  Marl- 
borough, they  indeed  inserted  in  a  medal  the  head 
of  the  French  monarch  and  the  English  queen, 
with  thb  inscription,  Ludoviatt  Magnut,  Anna 
M(yor.  Long  ere  this,  one  of  our  queens  had 
been  exhibited  by  ounelves  with  considerable 
energy.  On  the  defeat  of  the  Armada,  Elizabeth, 
Pinkerton  teUs  us,  struck  a  medal  representing  the 
Engriish  and  Spanish  fleets,  Heiperidum  regem  de- 
victt  -virg;  Philip  had  medab  dispersed  in 
England  of  the  same  impression,  with  thb  addition, 
Ntgatur,  Ktt  tneretrix  -vulgi.  These  the  queen 
suppressed,  but  published  another  medal,  with 
thu  legend : 

Hesperidum  regem  devicit  virgo  ;  negatur. 
Est  meretrix  vulgi :  res  eo  deterior. 

An  age  ferHle  in  satirical  prints  was  the  eventful 
era  of  Charies  the  First ;  they  were  showered  from 
all  parties,  and  a  lar^  collection  of  them  would 
admit  of  a  critical  historical  commentary,  which 
might  become  a  vehicle  of  the  most  curious 
secret  history.  Most  of  them  are  in  a  bad  stvle, 
for  the^  are  allegorical;  yet  that  these  satirical 
exhibitions  influenced  the  eyes  and  minds  of  the 
people  b  evident,  from  an  extraordinary  circum- 
stance. Two  grave  collections  of  historical  docu- 
ments adopted  them.  We  are  surprised  to  find 
prefixed  to  Rushworth's  and  Nalson's  historical 
collections,  two  political  caricature  prints  I  Nal- 
son's was  an  act  of  retributive  justice ;  but  he 
seems  to  have  been  aware,  that  satire  in  the  shape 
of  pictures  b  a  language  very  attractive  to  the 
multitude;  for  he  has  introduced  a  caricature 
print  in  the  solemn  folio  of  the  trial  of  Charles  the 
First.  Of  the  happiest  of  these  political  prints  is 
one  by  Taylor  the  water-poet,  emblematic  of 
the  distracted  times.  It  is  the  figure  of  a  man 
whose  eyes  have  left  their  sockets,  and  whose  le^ 
have  usurped  the  place  of  his  arms ;  a  horse  on  his 
hind  le^  is  drawing  a  cart;  a  church  is  inverted ; 
fbh  fly  in  the  air ;  a  candle  bums  with  the  flame 
downwards ;  and  the  mouse  and  rabbit  are  pur- 
suing the  cat  and  the  fox  I 

The  animonties  of  national  hatreds  have  been 
a  fertile  source  of  these  vehicles  of  popular  feeling 
— ^which  discover  themselves  in  severe  or  grotesque 
caricatures.  The  French  and  the  Spaniards  mu- 
tually exhibited  one  another  under  the  most 
extravagant  figures.  The  political  caricatures  of 
the  French,  in  the  seventeenth  century,  are  nu- 
merous. The  badaudt  of  Paris  amused  themselves 
for  their  losses,  by  giving  an  emetic  to  a  Spaniard, 
to  nuke  him  render  up  all  the  towns  his  victories 
had  obtained ;  seven  or  eight  Spaniards  are  seen 
seated  around  a  large  turnip,  with  their  frizzled 
mustachios,  their  hats  en  pot-h-beurrt ;  their  long 
rapiers,  with  their  pummels  down  to  their  feet, 
and  their  points  up  to  their  shoulders ;  their  rufb 
stiflfened  by  many  rows,  and  pieces  of  garlick  stuck 
in  their  girdles.  The  Dutch  were  exhibited  in  as 
great  variety  as  the  uniformity  of  frogs  would 


AUTOORAPHS. 


Dov.  Wc  havf  Urwiy  pMrlicLEulcd  in  Ihh  vin- 
Ictlvc^ril,  whtchlhncgmlciqne  emblem*  kcq>  I 
p  imona  tbe  p«tple  i  they  mark  the  iPcrFt , 
Klingi  or  ulianAl  pri<^.  The  Creeki  detpkxd  I 
irdgnns,  uil  CQiaiiintd  thrm  only  u  Al  to  be 


bftgiintively  CAJlvd  T 


ffic^ishmeni  ind  ]Mtru>tiiin  is  i  tiobLe  virtue, 
rfarn  II  (ccuiei  OUT  iDdepcDdnce  witbonl  depriv- 

□f  the  lewue  in  Fnnce,  uiil  IhOK 


BngUnd  under  Chultttbe 
itiiklng  mcmbUnce ;  and  in  eumining 
chl^bibed  by  tb«  gni 


''  "\a'S^'l^tf^< 


LEid  we  DO!  only  bjivc  "  the  Ramp 
c  fceUng 


iny  nibiequenc  periods,   i 

hiilonr ;  lod  pertup4  wotild  pn 
■hd  deicTibc  lomc  pinifuUr 


1  Lutniment  glided  by,  uid  Lndicatjn  of  the 
Ltnral  diipwitioiu.  Bui  regulated  Bj  [lie  pen  ii 
now  too  often  by  ji  mecbanicji  pToce«,  which 

•dwoJ  nlriblD  a  <imUi(  hindwrldng  \  the  puplli 


to  gorem  the  Cleeki  like  hii  mijtili.  ind  the 
twWiuv  like  iltn'ti :  for  thjit  Ihc  one  tie  was  lo 


u/rtimg  if  tmintf 
ttritni,  ccnctlf  likes  from  the  original  >■ 
pipht. 


m«t  iharpnHjhted  loTcr,  to  select  tbsl  of  hH  mis- 

his  bappincH  should  be  r^ed  on  the  choice — he 

Mppcating  lo  have  come  (rorn  the  sirne  rolUng- 

beun  raaebt  by  Ibe  same  master  lo  gire  the  same 
Torm  to  tbeir  Ictlers,  the  same  r^ularilj  Id  Ibeir 

ofSDcict}^.  The  ttuc  physiognomy  cH[  wiiung  will 
be  IcM  among  our  rtune  merarion  :  it  w  no 
longer  a  face  nat  we  are  looking  on,  but  a  bean- 


Assuredly  Nature  muld  prompt  every  liuliri- 
dnal  to  have  ■  distinct  lorl  of  wnring,  as  the  bat 

The  fledbility  oC  the  muvlet  dilTen  wirh  eniy 

of  the  Ihaughli,  and  the  emoiioni  *nd  rhe  habta 

worib.  while  the  pUv^l  haUe  bI  the  voltiile  wUI 
icaicely  sketch  them ;  the  stotnly  will  blot  and 
efface  and  tcrawl,  while  the  neat   uid  ordoly- 

thelr  eyes.  The  mercbant'i  clerk  will  not  write 
like  the  lawyer  or  Ibe  pod^  Bren  nalions  are 
distinguished  by  their  wriung;  the  vivacity  ud 
vaiianlencii  of  the  Frrncbman,  and  the  drUc^y 
anil  lupolencssof  the  Itillsn.  are  perceptibly  dk> 
id  strength  oT  Ibe  pea 


discoverable  in  the  phlegms 


Long  before  the  days  of  LAvaru,  Shuii 
Jago's  handwrlring,  that  1   may  judge  ol 

ceded  to  Ibe  opponcnu  of  (As  pAjirif  nsr 

v/riltng;    |{cnetal   ruin  only  can   be  laid  c 
Yet  IPC  Vila]  piiibciple  must  be  true,  tha 

the  writer,  asall  voluntary  action 


of  our  great  poets.  The  first  in  early  lilC  acqi 
among  Scnltiih  advocates  i  haibdwriting  w 
cannot  be  diitinguisbed  from  thai  of  his  ordi 
brolben;  the  secrmd,  educated  in  public  set 


With  the  writing-! 


THE  HISTOsr  OF  WH ITISG-MASTES8.                         439 

=hPsSri"=s':.=; 

that  he  would  have  not  been  inscntible  10  Ihe 

•^Chirle.  the  Sccoiid  wrole  1  little  f»it  running 

»hkh  tnlljlin  hi>  vena ;  while  Ihe  hfth  ii  lapKi- 
mcn  of  1  Cull  mind  not  in  Ihc  tuMI  ol  comcllnn 
at  iltcnitsni  »  llut  he  ipptm  Is  be  printing 

band   u  if  he  wrote  in  haue,  or  uneaiy  till  be 

had  done."    Such  wii  Ihe  writing  to  have  been 
eipecled  from  Iha  illuitriou)  vagabond,  who  had 

iluwn   hia  thoughlif  without  ■  vlitiry  ctuurc. 
The  handwriting  S  the  Jul  »nd  iliiTd  poeB.  not 

never  got   lid   of  hii   nalunl    re>tieHie>  and 

indic.tin:  of  Ib^t  ehuictet,  we  hi»e  >ecouiited 

ilvidty. 

for  I  the  olhcn  lie  •dminbk  (pecimnn  of  tbiw- 

"  Jama  Ihe  Second  writ  1  Urge  fair  hind."     li 

tcrirtie  .utognph.. 

1)  chaiacteriied  by  fail  phlegmatic  temper,  u  in 

OUIp,  In  one  of  hb  cnrtou.  i»te^,  wu  Mrack 

!!^Ih\^ luttl^  Hun  Ilu'^n^ut,  ud^didTot 

eiicnd   hi!  idei  to  Ihe   an  of  judging  of  thi 

oitunl   (hiiitlcr   by  the  writing.      Oldji  b« 

correonea,  u  1  ha«E  oDen  nrilied.    I  ihill  idd  i 

This    ltlh;cct    of'  AUTOOUFHI    lUDciate)     ilKlf 

•■  Htnry  Ihe  BiEhlh  wrote  Jitroni  hind,  but  h 
■(  he  hid  leJdom  i  good  pen."— "rtc  vehemence 

of  hli  chmcler  conve)  ed  ItKlf  into  hii  wciticE ; 

ft^j^nganlcle.    *■     "^        *■' 

•■  Edward  the  Sixth  .^te  a  filr  le|lhle  l^."- 
We   hive   tbb  pnmlniiig  j-oung  priore'i  dUr>-, 

THE  HISTORY  OF  WKmNCMASTERS. 

wrillen  by  b>>  own  bod :  in  >il  c«p«t.  be  wu 

■n  u^uoiu  pupiJ,  ind  he  h>d  Kuuly  Icunt  m 

to  Itince  Hcnrr  when  rery  young,  on  the  neitneH 
and  lainieM  H  hl>  bindwrntmgi  the  royil  Father 

write  ind  ID  reign  when  we  loH  him. 

'■  Queen  Ell^beth  -ril  u  uprigtal  h«td.  like 

the  buurd  lUliin."      <be  wit  Indeed  •  moM 

JS*W™  Newton.'"b«l  helped  out  I'be  young 

eleganl    cilignphcr,   whom    Koget  AKhun   hid 

men  of  ciligraphy  be  h«i  nlied  aim  ou  ibe  pai» 

touching  up  hh  letlerai  R»  rmierty  ,T,o«.  .  laud- 

no<i«d  hu  giien  the  uitoonph  of  her  nime, 
whkh  Ihe   ^.Ur  wmle  rn  '.  very  lirge   Ull 

ible  aniiely  that  Ihe  prince  ihonld  be  imprened 

chmcter,  and  piinfullv  elabonte.    He  iccompi- 

nic4  it  with  one  of  the  Scolllih  Huy,  who  it 

Mher.     Jimet  ihall  himaelf  jpeak.    "  1  confa  I 

long  to  receive  a  lellcr  from  vou  Ihal  mav  be 

wholly  vonii.  11  well  miner  a  form;   at  well 
formed  by  your  mind  m  drawn  bv  vour  lingcn; 

h-ve   leid,    much   the  ronlnij.     The    French 

for  ve  miy  remember,  that  in  mv  Ixmk  lo  you  I 

warn  you  10  be™  with  [of)  thii  kind  ol  w,t  that 

The  finl  dennle>  uperitr  and  oetenution:    the 

The  one  i>  Ihit  of  filiubelh,  queen  of  BngUnd  i 

mind ;  ind  In  an  age  when  lucb  minute  elegance 

mo«  evidently  10  that  of  Iheir  chirKten." 

"Jamnihe  Finl  writ  1  poor  ungiinly  chmcler, 

Uinli  wi«e  a  ilovenly  Kiawl.  •tiongly  indicaliiv 
nf  thit    penonal   negHgence   whlcS  he  cirrted 
into  ill  the  HlUe  tbli«>  of  lifei  ind  Buchanan. 

wilb  the  Mgniture,  to  decide  whether  il  were  oT 
one  band,  fir  Ccotgc  drew,  obHin  ing  lh<  French 

who  bad  made  him  an  excellent  Kholir,  nuy 

IheTacti  on  which  Henry  the  Greal.  idmiring  « 

receive  Ihe  Aagrm  of  hi>  puplLI  ugly  icribble. 

which  iprawli  about  bii  carelea  anJ  Ineleganl 

in  in  which  he  had  little  <klll,  .nd  lo..kinc  on  Ihe 

neat  cleeimx  of  the  writing  liefon  him.  poliuly 

"  Charts   Ibc  Fint  wtote  d  lili  open  Italian 

S;s'„s::,rs;fcSx-.s-i"! 

KSirSBtJJsr'^sSK 

in  the  kingdom,  and  it  might  have  been  con- 

pago.     Not,  indeed    that  ilii-w   'JJ™'!"  ""*"^  \ 

an^  frofa  Indalion ;  for  n=««  li:«»  t*«™Vi«n.iKt  ^ 

THE  HISTORT  OF  WBITISG-MASTERS. 


tolemnity  uid  nreWnMOM  the  pnclitHncn  ii 


hxve  been   RueriJly  obw 
intcllertukl  Ability,  in  propf 


AAttenCpf  BnglAnd;  And  I  cin  only  Altlib  ate  lb 
>f  theii  ATt,  la  the  periecban  to  wbkb  they  hiv* 

vhich  wAA  aIwavi  better  dndentoodi  ud  mop 

kitfuUy  p»cQki(  in  KnglAnd  than  in  Any  othe 
nunuy-     It  will  larpriie  ume  when  they  lun 


With  loftiraA  itranj.  •sn 


d  thete  dcKTibe  thoie  pendUed  koolB  bbJ 
iriifao,  "  the  AiigEli,  the  mn,  the  binb,  ud 
beuct,"  which,  »  one  of  than  obKrrtd,  be 


cnpbEn,  bAie  hid  their  cngnred  "  efligin."  with 

other-uewritinE-mBtet.1    If  un>e  hire  luliitaiv 

enough    imigintd    Ihil    the    sedenlAir    lirei    of 

^d"'.^ir'"  li^'lilS'Vn'l^'l,  *'"-Y^h^^. 

of  the  bAiren  Hbogn  0/  ihae,  »hn,  in  the  degiee 

pARd 

thCT  become  eminent,  to  n>c  Ibeir  awn  avle,  in 
tbeir  Art  of  "  diih,  diih,  long-tiil  fly,"  the  leu 

"  Tbt  nimbly-nirning  of  their  lilnr  qoiU," 

they  become  inURMug  10  the  public  1  Ibr  wbAt 

c*n  the  moM  ikllful  wriCJBg'iniMer  do  but  war 

iwiy  hii  life  in  leining  orer  hii  pnpil'i  copy,  or 

!5'.'"■uJi7^"^ri'^^"^d'™iS°^b°'  ibE^ 

though  be  cinnpl  campoie  Ihe  pige  »     Montiign^ 

trice  their  Cerniui  btOAd  text  or  their  line  nrn- 

One.  for  "the  bold  ttriking  of  thiae  wordi. 

Ifterwitite  ^rclrd   H  iiTiU   iirdruly,  ita    Ikii 

pre  the  book  which  he  IhuA  Adamed,  ind  vbich 

HAoti  ii  i^cnXivm?  ionunMely  tor  hii  tub- 

(lonriihing  hid  (hit  Bti^  minute  con  him!)— 
tb(t  be  clAimi  the  gtory  of  in  AttiH,  obsening— 

with  the  eye  of  frjtetnil  feelinz  an   ■•.  Mnnl 

^i-s-Tki'i^g-teri!'  inSTiiSts-rt-he' 

The  nun  «/  h.««ii  with  the  iif  ii«  join'd." 
Another  -u  flittered   IhAt   ho  icffHinj  conkl 

ijmgged  mien,  ind  pencilled  knou  ind   Aou- 

pen-nibbcr.  "  Oioiioi  Shillk,  one  of  Ihe  moil 
celehriled  wotthie.  who  b.«  mide  a  ihining 

bom  t  luppoie  of  obicuiT  pAintA,  becAntcfcniaAt 
up  io'chnu't  Hci^Ii],  yet  under  thehxmhle  blue 

wboK  vil  ud  worth,  deep  leAraing,  and  blgh 

eicellence  ind  luting  time,  for  he  wu  elected 

rtiU.                             P           ■*          -B 

wtiliog-m«ter  to  Ibe  hoipilAl."  SBILLir  pub- 
liihedliii  "NitDnl  Wiiting!"  but  ilul  Skill, 

Spukjou  the  honour  of  OUAt  Town  Hill  l~ 

tho«  whp  were  »  lucky  A.  to  lire  In  the  neigh. 

throne."— "Ihivcbein  informed  Ihil  Ibcie  wen 

bmirhood  o(  Ibil  FimAiiui.     Bnt  Ihe  reider  mun 

tmn  wme  notion  of  thil  chAim  dI  cAligrapby 

him  uid  CdI.  Ayiei,  inatber  of  our  gnal  rtSr"t€ri 

which  ha  B  bewilebed  in  pto[»n,  when. 

y«,  filr  o«r  nuM  telebiMe*  poeU  Ptpt  ant  Ji4l- 

"  How  jdAtly  bold  in  gMLL-i  impm^ing  h.nd 

to  ought  la  hire  AppCARd  bcTair  bis  brolb 


'  t 


THE  HISTORY  OF  WRITING-MASTERS. 


441 


irrite  letters,  in  Which  Maatey  confi 
Mtyrical  strokes  npoD  Sbillst/*  as  if 
wated  too  much  to  himself  in  his  book 
if  Writing.*'  They  find  great  fault  with 
nets  and  tprigged  letters.  8HKLLKT,who 
ocate  for  ornaments  in  fine  penmanship, 
LX.  utterly  rejected,  had  parodied  a  well- 
;  of  HerDcifs  in  fsTOur  of  his  favourite 
>: 

may  take  him  who  (rom  Utttrt  flies 
m  dtUght  into  an  extrciu.** 

fictions  created  ill-blood,  and  eren  an 
ence  amongst  several  of  the  superwr 
writing,    lioe  commanding  genius  of 

a  more  terrific  contest  when  he  pub- 
"  Standard  Rules,"  pretending  to  hare 
rsdtfaem  as  Euclid  would.  "This  proved 

contention,  and  occasioned  a  terrific 
ween  Mr.  Snsu.  and  Mr.  Clahx.  This 
out  'Standard  Rules*  ran  so  high  be- 
n,  that  they  could  scarce  forbear  tcurri- 
gg  therein,  and  a  treatment  of  each  other 
M(  gentUmen  I  Both  sides  in  this  dispute 
betton ;  and  to  say  which  had  the  most 
eaaon,  n»n  nostrum  est  tantas  comporurt 
ips  both  parties  might  be  too  fond  ^  their 
%et.  They  should  have  left  them  to 
hoose  which  they  liked  best."  A  can- 
an  u  our  Massky,  and  a  philosophical 
lo ;  for  he  winds  up  the  whole  story  of 
ar  by  describing  its  result,  which  hap- 
dl  such  great  controversies  have  ever 
Who  now-a-days  takes  diose  Standard 
er  one  or  the  other,  for  their  guide  in 

This  is  the  finest  lesson  ever  offered  to 

heads  of  parties,  and  to  all  their  men  ; 
neditate  on  the  nothingness  of  their 
rules  "  by  the  fate  of  Mr.  Snell  I 

be  expected  when  once  these  writing- 
agined  that  they  were  artists,  that  they 
infectod  with  those  plague-spots  of 
rv,  detraction,  and  all  the  jalousie  du 
d  such  to  this  hour  we  find  them  1  An 
try  scene  of  this  nature  has  long  been 

in  my  neighbourhood,  where  two 
ampions  of  the  quill  have  been  posting 
I  their  windows  respecting  the  inventor 
art  qf  'writing,  the  Carstairian  or  the 

When  the  ^preat  German  philosopher 
at  he  had  discovered  the  method  of 
efore  Sir  Isaac,  and  when  die  dispute 
ilent  diat  even  the  calm  Newton  sent  a 
ance  in  set  terms,  and  got  even  George 
i  to  try  to  arbitrate  (who  would  rather 
!rtaken  a  campaign),  the  method  of 
IS  no  more  cleared  up  than  the  present 
een  our  two  heroes  of  the  quill. 
instance  of  one  of  these  egregious  cali- 
lay  be  told  of  the  late  Tomkins.  This 
writing-masters  dreamed  through  life 
inriiip  was  one  of  the  fine  arts,  and  that 
naster  should  be  seated  with  his  peers  in 
my  I  He  bequeathed  to  the  British 
is  opus  magnum ;  a  copy  of  Macklin's 
iselv  embellished  with  the  most  beauti- 
ried[  decorations  of  his  pen  ;  and  as  he 
that  both  the  workman  and  the  work 
e  be  darling  objects  with  posterity,  he 


left  something  immortal  with  the  legacy,  hb  fine 
bust  by  Chanrrey  I  without  which  they  were  not  to 
receive  the  unparalleled  gift.  When  Tomkins  ap- 
plied to  have  nis  bust,  our  great  sculptor  abated 
the  usual  price,  and,  courteously  kind  to  the  feel- 
ings of  the  man,  said  that  he  considered  Tomkins 
as  an  aktist  !  It  was  the  proudest  day  of  the  life 
of  our  writing-master  I 

But  an  eminent  artist  and  wit  once  looking  on 
this  fine  bust  of  Tomkins,  declared,  that  **  this  man 
had  died  for  want  of  a  dinner  I" — a  fate,  however, 
not  so  lamentable  as  it  appeared  I  Our  penman 
had  tons  felt  that  he  was  degraded  in  the  scale  of 
genius  by  not  being  receive  at  the  Academy,  at 
least  among  the  class  of  engravers}  the  next  ap- 
proach to  academic  honour  he  conceived  would  be 
diat  of  appearing  as  a  guest  iX  their  annual  dinner. 
These  invitations  are  as  limited  as  thev  are  select, 
and  all  the  Academy  persisted  in  consioering  Tom- 
kins or  a  'unittng-master  I  Many  a  jrear  passed, 
every  intngue  was  practised,  every  remonstrance 
was  urged,  evei^  stratagem  of  courtesy  was  tried ; 
but  never  ceasing  to  deplore  the  failure  of  his 
hopes,  it  preyed  on  his  spirits,  and  the  luckless 
caligrapher  went  down  to  his  grave  — without 
dining  at  the  Academy  I  Such  men  about  such 
things  have  produced  public  contests,  combats  h 
Poutranee,  where  much  ink  wasspilt  by  the  knights 
in  ajoust  of  goose-quills. 

These  solemn  trials  have  often  occurred  in  the 
history  of  writing-masters,  which  is  enlivened  bv 

Eublic  defiances,  proclamations,  and  judicial  trials 
y  umpires ;  and  the  prize  was  usually  a  golden 
pen  of  some  value.  One  as  late  as  in  tne  reisn  of 
Anne  took  place  between  Mr.  Osrman  and  Mr. 
Mork.  Osrman  having  courteously  insisted  that 
Mr.  Mork  should  set  the  copy,  he  thus  set  it,  in- 
geniously quaint  I 

As  more,  and  Mork,  our  understanding  dears. 
So  more  and  more  our  ignorance  appears. 

The  result  of  this  pen-combat  was  really  lament- 
able ;  they  displayed  such  an  ei^uality  of  excellence 
chat  the  umpires  refused  to  decide^  till  one  of  them 
espied  that  Mr.  German  had  omitted  the  tittle  of 
an  i !  But  Mr.  Mork  was  evidently  a  man  of 
genius,  not  only  by  his  couplet,  but  in  his  "  Essay 
on  the  Invention  of  Writing,"  where  occurs  this 
noble  passage  :  **  Art  with  me  is  of  no  party.  A 
noble  emulation  I  would  cherish,  while  it  proceeded 
neither  from,  nor  to  malevolence.  Bales  had  his 
Johnson,  Norman  his  Mason,  Ayres  his  Matlock 
and  his  Shelley ;  vet  Art  the  while  was  no  sufferer. 
The  busybody  who  officiously  emplop  himself  in 
creating  misunderstandings  between  artists,  may 
be  compared  to  a  turnstile,  which  stands  in  e%'ery 
man's  way,  yet  hinders  nobody;  and  he  is  the 
slanderer  who  gives  ear  to  the  slander."* 

Among  these  knights  of  the  "  Plume  volante," 
whose  chivalnc  exploits  astounded  the  beholders, 
must  be  distinguished  Pktkr  Bales  in  his  joust 
with  David  Johnson.  In  this  tilting  match  the 
guerdon  of  caligraphy  was  won  by  the  greatest  of 
caligraphers ;  its  arms  were  assumed  by  the  victor. 
azure,  a  pen  or ;  while  "  the  golden  pen,"  carried 
away  in  triumph,  was  painted  with  a  hand  over 

*  I  have  not  met  with  Morc's  book,  and  am 
obUged  to  transcribe  this  from  the  Biog.  Brit. 


mtm 


a  Q 


THE  HlarORT  OF  WSfTIt/G-MASTEBa.  ■ 


thereby  boupd  by  iMW  ta  Ibc  pcriorBuncc. 
The  diy  before  Ihe  rri«t  ■  rriaM  d«' 
'M  Affiud  tbittugbDuI  tbe  cL1j»  '*""*^"a 

MwfTible  la  tbe  d^pity  of  the  gowcv  pent" 
>□£«  for  A  tbouvnd  pouiW*  inoR»  bul  for  the 


He  preKnted  Quceo  BUuheib  wiib  (be  minu- 

dog,  or  HI  Bo!  tDat[cx>>ei" 

Khot  M  in  .  rinn  of  gold,  covered  wilh  i  (ryilj  i 
be  bid  ilw  eontiiied  i  mignif)ing  gl""ol  tuch 

On  Mic£uJm>>d.s>]M,  the  tri4l  opened  bdoR 

<iTe  )udge.  :  Ifae  >ppell».I  ind  tbe  rev>>d«>  ^ 

m^'y  xtii  the  whok^voluw,  whi^h".l^''heW 

peired  it  the  ippointed  pUce.  4Bd  u  uclcat  gn- 

tiemin  vju  eDtiuled  with  ■'  Ibe  gidden  pes."     In 

ud  Creiltienllv,  ■  Peter  often  beard,  d^  her  ma- 

would  not  hung  bim  loiwird  1   Thu  WH  mnidcd 

dicuiing  to  tbem  both  in  En)^  lod  in  Udn, 

Biiu  pRioiined  bat,  being  btrt  done ;  wndxn 
the  chiUcngcr  biinicir  conroing  IbU  be  mntai 

iu'^  Ke  H«  ot  -  i  tilver  penoy,"  btil  nltaoal 

the  luin  (oogue.  *nd  .r^  „  ckrti 

innonbl 

Tbe  Ibiid  ind  Jul  trill  foi  f>ic  «HtiB|  hi  MBdrr 
kindi  o<  hudi.  the  chUknger  pteciilcd  far  the 

Fm  1  whole  yiu  hkl  D*yib  Johnion  iSied  i 

chiilenge  "To  »By  Doe  wbo  ihouW  luke  e>cep- 

tbe  tupeiior  ijnet,  of  tbe  KomiD  huui.    In  fte 

liiui  to  tbi>  my  writing  indutchiDi."   Hewua 

young  friend  of  B<lu,  duing  >nd  Longiiig  foi  in 

couH-bud  Ihe  re^Hodent  Eieeeded  Ibe  iffdlmt. 

"■'^1.  >'inem.(  imiU.  with  line  ind  wilhoui 
line  1  in  I  Uow  let  bind,  1  mean  facile  hind,  ind 

Iruot  and  ftpcediot.  Bleat  Kcretuy  ud  cleit-like 
From  a  man'i  nwnth,  reading,  or  prtnoaucing, 
Eilber  Engliifa  or  Latin." 


Holynke  noUcel  "  virgin-peithmeot  toade 
Driwin;,  call!  parchment  liitiply  *n  (tnin 


d,  that 


betterthittperimenofcalignphy  E   Tbe  chaUeni 


night  not  be  so  Camoiuly  ^pread  ■ 


r>'ing  off  the  golden  pen,  evultinaly  btdii  painted 

aboul  repotting  (hat  A#  had  tiwi  the  gi^den  pen, 

"plolaand  ■hif1a,andotbeFbaie  and  conning  pFK- 
licei."     BAtu  Tindicalcd  hia  claim,  and  ofleted  id 

acquilcd  it,  JOHNkon  naued  an  "Appeal  to  all 
imparts   pen-men,"    which    he   spread   in  gtcal 

against  Ihe  judgca  and  the  victoiioiu  defendant  1 
Kc  declared  Ihal  Ibere  bad  been  a  subtle  combina- 
tion alih  ooe  of  the  juditcs  eooconing  the  idace 
of  Ixiai ;  which  be  erpecled  to  havt  txen  before 


THE  ITALIAN  HI3T0BIAN3. 


intendnl  Co  bcTvi 


ckBT*  bii  "  'ppc^  "  by  dedirlna  Ihft  Baiei  bid 
iDftt  in  kevAl  puU^E  th«  trial,  ndthet  did  Ihe 
judM  deny  ih>c  Balsa  pcsoKd  bimicK  of  tbe 

- '   '  lUeging  the  vckD»  of  Ali  wile  to  be 
.  le  dEitnd  itlF  might  hire  a  1<(U  rf  Ihl 
^UiH  fiH  f«  tvnifrrt  Itrr  r  "nie  incicnt  gentlenup 

iwed  the  goiden  pen  to  be  canled  to  the  uck 
e;  ind  B4LU  immed^Iely  pawned  it.  And 
nwirdi,  lo  mikc  fun  WDTk,  lold  it  >I  ■  great 
>,  H  that  when  the  judgo  met  lot  their  dcfi- 
nitiTF  lenteTice,  TWt  pen  nor  wdnywonh  wu  to 
be  bwi  \    TTie  judgn  beioR  uumed  of  their  own 

BiiLU  reiirini :  be  subiiibei  to  the  UDlienc  tbe 
ly  ind  Ibe  bom  when  the  judgn  brought  the 

uil,  jsuma  the  pljdea  pen  im  hb  iign. 

iuch  ii  the  ibortett  hutory  I  could  contrive  of 

-  -"-iTmJTy  e(  Ibe  pen !  lomething  m 


pwleiityl  The  tnx  principle  nl  nili< 


:loud>  over  the  file  of  the  dereni 
uMory,  Jifce  Csm^  ki  but 

■n  or  the  niigrapncT,  which 


Diodcm  linguaMi 

ired  with  ingela ;  they  IR  ttanljul 
I  img  ind  Jincf  like  mRcli;  bui, 

nin  Drijttn.  Among  thuatf  irarocd 
migrated  to  Italy,  and  eomc  nAer- 
incc.  10  the  reion  •<<  Pnncn  I.,  wu 


jnJdellciey, wm oik ot  Ibe  moil eleguil wriln 

HU   n.me   beome    nnonymoui   (or  bculin 
wiiima.  and  gave  birth  to  thil  vu1|j«  pmverb  t 


It  the  !«■  cUbonleiy  a 


ciiat  rKtiom,  at  leDKlh 

„„«hUconony^n«,bar.ban 

I,Vi>lo,elr»HBnE"e.iBemlli,  t 
He)  pnlglio  inailii»i  dnmii  <  ripi> 

Bpada  uifrtoi:  ti  ivcgii,  c  vonnimhl 


"he  mighty  bDundirln  orihe  giorin 
nd  Ihui  lo  Vilnur,  to  Iby  primne  1 
hit  iwort  in  faith  10  thtr,  thy  lolh 


THE  ITALIAS  niSTOBIASS. 


rr  (hncir  fnHn  ihj 


SSB 


't  b«n  the  l^rM  write 


llxiDg  OD  uuLoGOiu  rurta,  similjr  IxnODjigcs,  ind 
panllel  periods.  This  wu  cnUrenig  the  Aeld  of 
PHtoTT,  and  opmiiig  m  neur  combinitiop  for  phi- 
loHphica]  iHcuUtioD,  His  pmlbund  geniiu  ad- 
Tinced  *tiU  fuTthcT :  be  not  onK-cKpUincd  modem 


of  facts  is  not  the  philosophy  of 
....  ^  ,  itorifln  unskilful  in  tbe  itl  of  »- 
plying  hi*  IkI>  iniAw?  impviv  ore,  which  he 
""-^^e  intoccdn.    The  chanceUor  D' Agnes- 


of  dm  ud 
become  incipAble 

n>  IhU  the  result  or  their  knowledae 


Into  ui  DppoulG  eilicme ;  tbeyjiidgeof  ^ 
lie  the  othen  alwAyi  decide  on  what  shoul 
•a  of  IhciT  Teuoning,  Ihc  lecond  of  the ' 

philosophen  Tor  the  science  of  fjdv,  tnd  the 

tbemselres  to  ftcts  odea  contract  Tor  whit 

wnphy  should  diieel  us  In  the  Uudy  of  history, ' 
■he  study  of  histoiy  should  ^ve  perfection  lo  I 

u  fit  tuck  u  u  the  beginning  ofthe  lul  ceninnl 


Id  which  he  might  peipetually  t«ur  10  try  the 
_o  through  the  vast  extents  of  hiitofy-    The 


the  foundatiom  of  our  PAihMHinf  H'alt^. 
:  emmple  of  HKhUvel,  like  that  of  all  ere- 

3e  It^ian  historians  have  prot'ed  themaeli'ea 
fi  \ht  compoeition  or  historical  vcrka,  which 


K*  il,  till  twenty  j-ean  had  elapsed  after  the 

fiiRunaHly  pmen-ed  in  manuscript,  aud  tbe 
Protestants  procured  transcripts  which  they  pub- 
lished scpamelr,  but  which  were  lont;  XTrry  rare.* 

to  have  been  reinstated  in  the  immortal  historyi 
■olate  »  in  i))j  !  Thus  it  required  two  centurieL 


leurenant-genei 


9f  the  R 


THE  ITALIAS  BISTOBIAIIS. 


nteT»  nolicd  by  Pliny," 
riuilini,  a  histDry  of  hb 


ori^iul  Iq  the  fluwT?  \\  tEvidtt  id  his  rctiremi 
rnm  public  aOain   wrote  m  hutory  of  PIOTCn 


•ciipt  In  UiE  liEnrtSorPlomct  <»? VtBictTI^lh 
nther  brttorical  dDcumenti    of  thu   nobk   uhI 


^  to  pre^-cDt  the  puhLkittoD,  which 
plue  tlli  i;o  yun  after  the  deilh  «l 


Ihat  of  Huiu.  Inmonl^  inerhit  dnth  thit  his 
rdaUva  afddentally  ditcorcrrd  thi«  hiatory  of 
nonnce,  which  the  luitaor  hid  cuefuUy  conculed 


loncofthcMcdid 
■    ■■  « 

oy  nbicrta,  that  Ibe  uucily  of  thk  hiMoty  U 
wiDg  lo  dK  circunDtiDce  "of  the  CtwuI  DuIcc 
avitig  bought  up  the  lApia."  Du  ttraiAy,  In- 
eed.hu  noticed  more  thu  once  thii  vrt  of  id- 

lorentine  hiitoryof  BujTo.thn  the  work  wunol 
ommon;  the  Grind  Duke  hiTing  bought  up  the 
npiei,  lo  guppRU  them.  The  lulhor  wm  eren 
bli^d  lo  fly  AORI  IliJy.  f«  hiiing  deliTcied  hi) 

"his  honnt  blHoilin  Ihui  expmo  himicJf  it  the 
Icne  of  his  worli  :  *■  Jily  design  bu  but  one  end  ■ 
nit  our  posterity  miy  Leira  by  Iliese  notices  thi 


those  men  who  hive  nlied  them  up,  or  proloi^ed 
them  i  u  veil  v  Ilie  goodness  of  those  srbo  did  ill 

greic  persooii^  or  their  liiailla,  of  whom 


u  bid  10  freeJy  wr 
FioreDliDe,"  which 


ictlve  part  in  the  CTcnt>  he  re 
eombined  with  iny  pirty,uu 
spectator.    This  hntoriin  clos 


pulir  freedom,  poured  fijitb  their  injured  feeliogs 
in  their  secret  piget  j  without  the  hope,  and  per- 

did  not  publish  Ihdr  histories,  they  might  hire 
inswered.  In  neirly  the  words  of  in  indent  sifle, 
"  Because  I  im  not  permitted  to  write  u  I  would  i 

not  imieiiie  thit  IheK  gteit  men  were  lo  the  leist 

hlKotliii,  •  stern  derotion  to  truth,  which  reiluced 
them  to  silence,  but  not  to  inactivity  I  These 
Floieotine  ind  Veneliin  hlstoriins,  irdcnl  with 
truth,  ind  profound  in  politicil  iigiiity,  were 
solely  wiilInK  thiK  legicio  of  history  tor  Ibeir 
countrymen,  hopeless  of  their  griiitudel  If  i 
Frcncbmin  wrote  the  Snglish  history,  that  Litiour 

tlve  or  the  tuk  wa  lea  ^oirtou  thin  thcii  wark  i 
but  heic  we  diH»Ter  ■  r»co  of  lusttmint.  w™"  I 
puiiDtlim  ilone  ioidiiled  Iheir  secret  Uliour.  ina  1 
who  wboiniled  fijrrime  niul  mnune  <""  "'""^  \ 
spirit,  wWch,  UBidst  their  condlct'inK  V"'™^^  > 
deniiped  the  truest  pfiodple.,  ind  e"^  "" 


ts  of  bistory,  nther  t\ikn  the  ^^  t*>\ 
r,  bid  the  IntTepiditv  In  f  *_«* 
'.ility,«.d  he  M-nd,  finh  ^  (     -" 


ccclalwtloi  "•"«P»ti"tv»"^^°M'^^ 


OF  PALACES  BUILT  BY  MINISTERS. 


hiiloiyby  Vcnwt,  *nd   pi 

h»  cn(ic»  in  >cunlriiig  tbc  work,  premctcd  (he  f'lF 
at  the  luchar.    "  Yon  hiVE,"  bid  be,  "  pLucd  on 


found  nci  frtend  in  the  emperor,  Prince  Ei 

inquiuIDn,  who  one  ni^l  Upckil  bim  o 
harden  o(  (he  ntpe'l  doiDinions.     BKUfMng  unex- 
pec(edky  wE(h  bit  Ulv  to  Ge(Kvi,  he  wu  preparing 

when,  en(ice<l  by  4  tmcherout  fhend  la  t  c»(holic 
t'iUjge,  OI4HNU1IE  WAS  UTCytcd  by  an  order  ol  (he 

Rome,  and  the  histnriaii  {(npriuned  in  a  Ibn.    1( 

lindicatiDn  of  Ihe  ngbti  of  (he  kii^  of  SaTdiola, 

waa  a(  Tint  farourabky  receired  i  but,  uiider  (he 

on  (he  vUraordinjry  plei  (bat  be  kept  Gtahnoi 
as  a  prisoner  ol  stale  tba(  he  miehl  pmen-e  hi 
(torn  Ibc  papal  power,  ordered  (na(  (he  tlndicat 
of  bis  n^ta  shouM  lie  more  clovly  confined  lb. 
before  1  md,  for  (hb  purpose,  (laruferred  bis  sUI 


'   ^,} 


inked 


pbilosophicaL. 

his  lore  of  fame,  (bit  he  wanted 

required  to  deny  himself  the  deligbt  of  eiTing  bit 

bislory  lo  the  world,  (hough  some  ol  his  ^r«a( 


anirda  (nampb  to  ManichFiamI    'Hie  wo' 
sions  -«t  caAed  in  by  aU  paniea.    But  ii 


E  tnccd   up  to  that 


science  rjf  politics,  which  aougbt  for  maiaeTy  in  a' 
undefinsble   itmgfcie   of  ungotemable    pobiia 

spots  and  (he  hatreds  and  jealousiet  of  (be  n 

pcnKtuAi  satire  on  Ihe  contemptible  simulstw 


OP  PALACES  lUtLT  B 

on  their  name,  eicitiog  eien  the  cnsr  of  IhS 
equal* — in  the  crcctiDn  of  PAUcaa  for  tbcmadr^ 

to  (lie  eyes  of  tbe  populace, appeared  aaa  perpetual 
and  inaoleot  eibibition  ol  whit  they  deemed  the 
lU-eanied  wages  of  peculation,  oppmaloa,  and 
coun-faTour^  We  discover  (he  sednclion  of  tbb 
paanon  for  oatenlation.  Ibis  haughty  sense  of  Ibcir 


The  hou^a  of  Cardinal  WoLSIir  appear  to  hav 
iceeded  the  palaces  of  (he  soretcl^  in  maniiti 
nice  {  and  potent  aa  he  was  in  all  the  pri3c  d 


ameas,  be  trembled  (o  retain  for  himaelf.  Tbe 
Ee  Btire  ol  that  day  was  often  pointed  at  Ihia 
y  rircumstance,  as  appears  in  fiLelton*s  "*  whf 

not  wTothe/'    Skelton'i  tailing  rbymea  leaie 
purple  priiK 


*"'!'«  '^Il  t^y  checkmate 
The  Klng^l  Court 


Hoi',  ID  conlemplMJBg  Ibe  palace,  is  malieloatly 
nse  in  plain  wrrnb. 


OF  PALACES  BVILT  BT  MIKISTESS. 


MMcliimiBalouni 
A>Hl..fhm  decked  t« 

K«tl.keuMa>|J>. 

Herom«hthenof«>ii. 
HBbihcrimUlmucb 
A  buubcr  by  hu  kc 

WbiUTci  we  nnjr  now  Ihi 

Dkor  ihe 

ibE  minlitEiiiJ  prclite'i  imprria]  citjblMinini 
TCTy  piuiBnE  u  Ibe  eomprelurBsaii  of  i  mwler 
iDfeclor.  Sii  bundivd  pmnm,  I  think,  vei 
bftiHiocled  ind  itepr  ii 


who,  in  ToniinKiDC,  iultcml  the  Caidii 
wnuHy  tD  ibhull  tb»  wonder  of  Snglir 
cbmclcr  of  kteper  of  the  .kinrt  pilaa  ■ 

,,  ,     prrbipt  wu  i  rrtnt 

111  hADghltncii  pMd  To  popiilir  I 


qdendid  edifice,  Woliry  prricoled  h  to  the  king, 
who,  in  TeroinKiDC,  luHcrcd  the  Caidintl  occ*- 


aniucilioiubly  CKCtted  the   Indi^ciulinn  i 

IhoufttitJe*  minuter  iloDC  could  LaduLgc 

Put  Wobcy  ADd  Bockin^un  wrre  u 
ud  adkenliiToiB ;  titcy  nnc  ■nd  ihonc  the 
oF  Hie  political  hortion  of  Europr,    "Hie  ,._. 
(Lin  «IilL  tuunVed  Itae  imapiuticni  of  the  Cirdi 
ADd  (he  egoUtftc   pfide  or  ha'  ' 

Ucbelieu  Hid  Olirmici,  the  DonV— 

tbe  iril  lOverelgiHar  Eonipc,  kindled  the  buoyant 
4piTitj  of  (he  say,  the  gailnt,  and  the  iplendid 

account  tm  the  eonducloT  the  pmlband  Oircndon, 
and  (he  icniibic  Sir  Robert  wdimle,  who,  like  (be 


nooly  euct,  or  noiked  with  the  nicety  and  pre- 
iaaaT1ltiurfSli*kiittan.\.K.  tee  AtchdeacoD 
every  Bngliah  library,  and  executed  wilb  equal 


deur.  Clarendon  fej^oacbei  himieir  in  hii  hie  lor 
InciirTed  in  Ibti  bnildinc,  which  he  ackoowledm 
had  »  violently  ahaken  bim,  than  any  miidcmein- 

It  rained  hia  eiute ;  but  be  bid  hcen  incouraiied 

ID  il  by  liieniyaijEnnlof  tile  Land,  by  (hat  paaaUni 
lor  buUdinc  to  which  he  aw»  "  he  wai  utnnlly 
Ion  Duch  Inclined,"  and   ferhapi   by  other  cir- 


waa  popularly  called,  either  Dunkirk  Home,  or 
Taller  Hall,  from  a  notion  (ha(  il  had  \vtn 

Tincien.  He  waa  reproached  with  haiinji  pro- 
faned the  aacred  atdon  dedicated  In  the  u«  m  (he 

paUee,  who,  ^Di  a  private  lawyer,  had  raiit-d 
himiclf  hy  alliance  even  id  myaHyi  the  father- 
in-law  or  the  Duke  of  York,  il  wai  malieinntly 
■ORfiealed,  bad  penuaded  chvlei  the  tteconil  In 
marry  the  Inhnla  of  hjrtv^.  knowinpf  fbut  hnw 


[alenti,  who  it  leant  hare  not  Iheir  po^lirilr^ 
Hiii  II  one  of  the  parallel  iaan  which  afl  firH]UcnIly 
itnke  lu  in  eiplormu  pnlilicai  hritnry :  afid  the 

lataor  Charier  the  Hecond.    There  wai  a  atttmg 


ig  nothing  in  Kveilly  lluie  dlKav 


•■  TAXaTIOS  so  TT&AJrSTI' 


Lo  1  hii  whcte  unbLIioii  Mbttij  ^vida 

The  tcrpdr  bdvtcn  (be  Stuutt  ud  the  HrdcL 

Bebold.  ih  tbc  depth  of  our  pla^e  tod  win. 


n  tbc  cttflom-boaie  U 


A  city  And  kia^(dom  To  /fvdr  briong;! ; 

Hctt'i  nnugfal  loboKofauI  Hfdil  Hjiif  H^df 
OfnkUudwbmlHlhc  kingdom  divliki, 
Tm  one  Hyda oTIud,  tu  now  Uod  of  Hyda  I 

gricrcd  \n  ilJeiicc  unidil  thii  splendid   p 
prnpoKd  Jo  pay  hii  detolB.  and  Hurc  tomt 

dcJight  he  bid  etuoycd,   tbkt   tbou^   ht 


Ibe  ton  of  the  gml  titl,  "in  P'X'ng  by  th. 

D^^.  wbicb  they  were  now  demolishing,  bcin^ 
■old  to  certain  undertaken,  I  mnwd  my  head  thi 
conlnry  mty  till  the  ^nach  wasn^nepaat  by,  lent 

delicacy,  w  perfectly  chancterink  of  BfcLyn  t 

And  DOW  to  bting  down  Ihii  subbed  Id  tima 
itlU  DUTer.  We  ftnd  that  Sir  Kobcrt  Walpole  had 
placed  himaelf  exacIJjr  in  Aeiiluation  of  thegieat 
ntioifter  we  havo  thoticcd  i  we  bare  bii  confesaioo 
to  hi>  brother  Lnrd  Walpole,  and  to  hii  friiiid  Ui 
John  Hinde  Comtn.    The  biitotiim  of  thii  mi- 

Houghton  drew  on  him  great  oWoqur.  On  leeing 
tall  brolher'i  hoiiK  at  Wolterlon,  Jit  Robert  ex- 


Lii  wnhea  thai  be  hi 


Roberl  titling  by  tit  John  Hynde  CotbHt,  alludiog 
to  I  lumptuoiuhouae  which  wd  then  building  by 
HAatiT,  Qbfcrved,  that  to  cotulruct  a  great  home 
wat  abigh  act  ofin^rtudeDce  in  any  miouteTl  It 
wat  a  long  time  after,  and  wbcD  he  bad  been 
prime  minuter,  that  he  Ibrgol  Ihe  whole  mult  of 
the  present  article,  and  pulled  down  hli  family 
maiHion  at  Houghton  to  build  thai  magnificent  edi- 
^e ;  it  wai  Iben  Sir  John  Hynde  Cotton  reminded 
bim  of  the  icfleetiDD  whicb  be  bad  made  tome 


yean  ago :  Ibe  rep^  of  Hi  Koberl  tueminliabte — 


it  befoie 
then  It  might  haTe  been  i 
The  ttateHtvan  and  pnlil 

magnitude  of  Ihe   boui 
greatnoa  Inhabits,  Ibey  i 

Sir  Francii  WaUn^um  died  aud  left  uMbln^  to 

in  the  anoajmioiD  life  af  jlir  Ptalbp  Sidn^  prehxed 
to  the  Arcadia,  and  erldentlr  wriilen  b^  eaic 
acquamted  witta  the  family  hHtorr  of  Ua  ftiend 
and  hero.  The  chlvalric  Sidney,  nwngh  iAi|^ 
after  by  coun  bcaulicx,  lOliciKd  Ibe  baud  of  tbc 

"  "na   is   that   Sir   Fnncii  who  imporetbhed 
himiejf  to  entach  the  state,  and  indeed  made  Eng- 

be  benefit  of  hii  place,  thai  he  detno* 

pering'place,  all  Ihe  secrets  of  Chiutian  pnnca 
queithed  no  great  wealth  to  hii  daughter,  banv 

declined  Ihe  augmentation  of  their  private  fortune, 

of  patriotic  glory  y  Tbc  labour  ol*  this  reararcb 
will  be  grea],  and  the  i-olume  amal]  I 


sent  forth  at  a  moment  when  a  people.  In  a  state 
of  imuirection,  put  forth  a  declarathin  thai  taaa- 
iion  waa  tmaay  t  It  was  mM  against  an  latignifi- 
cantlailhey  pnilesled,  buiagaimt  tiiationliielfl 

iniunUy  run  down  by  thai  cveilailiug  parly  which, 
are  dengnsted  by  the  odd  descriptive  term  o( 


law-dictionarv  1  probably  derived  fmm  Pliny'i 
description  of  a  people  whom  some  travellers  had 
reported  to  have  found  In  Ihia  predicament,  in 
their  Ehght  and  haste  in  attempting  to  iacd  on  a 


"  TAXATION  NO  TYRANNYV-                                  441]  1 

hiTe  tny  common  wesle,  being  Ihe  ground  ind 

■n    HDCiUidn   of  iilcu  or  lualion  ind  l^m^, 

il,  howeter,  to  odioui  to  Ihe  pei.ple,  ihji  it  m«i  he 

who  publUxd  Ihc  lint  pin  of  1  dkiunur  of  the 

curiom  to  oh«erre  tbe  irtt  pritlited  by  govern- 

the  Pkmoffna.  h»ing  had  Ih.  honon  o[  Mng 

it  under  tome  miligiling  term.    In  the  littt  break- 

man lor  catUn  populir  cnnn;  web  n,  for  la- 

ing  out  of  the  America  troublet,  they  prolably 

would  hire  fielded  to  the  mothec^auntry  llii 

Hiim,  ondcrtfac  void  Crtn  Hum  w«  Knd  ».li 

CoiiUi'  [kc  t««I)  ind  Uk  vmi  GairlU  wu 

(of  tbeit  iride) ;  Ihi.  1  infer  from  >  lellei  of  Dr. 

iluli  ind  laxii  were  ■>'nniiymc>,  ucordlng  lo  t)ll> 

mDixliclout  Icvicogrmpher  1     Buch  gticvinco,  and 

A  Rom»n  comul,  by  lerj-ing  m  tu  on  mil  dariDK 

•ome  ippeiutive  which  ihould  pinly  conceii  in 

the  Piiidc  oar.  wu  nickiunncd  SalMtltr,  ind 

h.d  Anrncrlf  done  hh  Sutx  o>  the  countiy.  t»t 
theAtflfrwanoffhiitWadl    He  tetlied  Aom 

ipcs  benevolence  whcneicr  it  cliimi  u  i  gift 

Kame.  let  hit  beiM  grow,  ind  by  hit  t«d)d  drea. 

wW  It  UKItui  tribute.                                *^ 

The  Romtnttt  length  winted  the  JaKn-  to  con.. 

mindthfitmy.    Attn  injured  mio,  henfuied— 

Homer.    He  leUt  »■  thu  "  the  nat.^n{x  »>ni 

but  he  wu  told  tbtt  he  Ihould  bcal  the  caprice  ol 

the  komin  people  with  the  teoderneji  of  iton  (o( 

lo  the  jeTenlAnibprineet  through  whmelerritorr 

tion  by  t  productiie  til  on  till,  though  thii  Ui 
hid  piotided  in  limy,  ind  obuined  I  vtclory  1 

coDiidered   u  In   Kl  of  the  lullin'l  gcneioiily 

rent)  lie  wmngj  tor  were  they  freed  from  ill 

rtilriinti  >■  much  u  if  lhe»  ilept  in  (oreiB  ind 

h™d!  Ihe  Arib^ih.  *?;  00^1'  right  'at't^ 

ofRoing  through  tbeir  countiy.    In  Ihe  finiuenl 

>iu  produce,  Ihe  Turkteompliinot  lOHUv,  ind 

liiiiion  ii  hitdly  Vnown,  for  the  people  eiiil  In 

lheAr.bto(.ii«„oN."t 

such  ntler  wralchednen.  Ihit  they  ire  loo  poor  to 

Here  we  trice  Jua/bn  through  111  itt  ihining 

uhi"l°llil^rkIbk^n^nca!"wheTNei^wo?J 

dilfeienl  people ;  the  time  ptiuciple  reguUteJ  Ihe 

for  populuily,  the  lenih^  thinted  him  for  huTgDoil 

or  when  they  Uiiai  whit  the  othen  piid  only  u  1 

When  Louii  Ihe  Elerenlh  of  Fnnce  beheld  bit 

"  The  Kepublir,"  hii  nolieed  I  diB  of  poliljciini 

country    eihiuUed    by    Ihe    predaloly    win    of 

who  ire  in  loo  great  fivour  with  tbe  people. 

England,  he  bought  1  peice  of  our  Edward  Ihe 

Tilioni,  did  of  lile  yeiB  promiK  immnnily  of 

to  be  pii'd  It  London,  >nd  likewite  grinled  pn- 

luea  ind  .ubildiet  to  on.  people,  but  neither 

•Uiia  »  the  En^iih  miniflen.    Holingiheid  ind 

could  they  do  it,  or  if  they  could  hi«  done  il. 

111  our  hittoriiDi  all  thit  i  yearly  Irthuli :  hut  Co- 

they  would  nol;  or  If  U  were  done,  ihonld  we 

be  inlroduced  Into  the  Uwi  ol  Henry  the  Fim 

Cowel  uyi. "  Thote  ire  tilled  mtrflLaU  who  were 

conft»,  Ihil  IhoK  who  receive  i  peuiion  to  ohliin 

*.ad  or  nipettor.- 
•  yiabaUTK  ii  «iiili  ral«nn  (  lUlU  Linpia 

itRomebydeiiresri^court  or  Florence.    The 

lited  by  Rjchttd  Knollci,  1606,    A  wo.k  replete 

wilh  Ihe  •ruliciJ  knowledge  of  pohlici;  ind  of 
which  Hr.  Dugild  Slewirt  hit  deUrered  t  high 

It  G:""^  ie-  Ullmll  leiKUIa.  Tomo  «i..  410, 

In  the  lilt  edition  of  Hiym'i  "  Bibliotec*  Itilltni," 

opinion.             "^ 

raipf^  .'-Pot  Ihe  bDOk-bcenten  it  it  •  giett  wiy 

!Srs:sr=,-.Miid.,  I 

togoforil. 

Ki»lki.  p.  14a.  lfc«. 

'^TAXATION  NO  TYRAXSrV 


when  it  vm  foimcrlir  ihou){ht  ikiirtblt,  In  It 


their  title  J    when  thej-  wcit  no  longer  — "-■ 
J]  Agreed  cm  Ibe  propttety  of  the  oAict  undi 


Burke  nUerta  with  pTDfouod  truth — '*  AbMnct 

und.    Liberty  inhenn  in  tome  leiuible  object  ^ 

jinE.  wbirh,  \ff  w*y  of  eminence,  becoRh 
._  -J-  -!,_:_  I — ,: ».  happeoed  th 


of  their  happi' 
Erat  cantoa  for  TreedoT 

nonwciliha  lunKd  primirily  on  the  rij[ht  at  cki 
ion  of  miglitralc*,  or  on  Ilic  lulaim  imong  Ih 

^-^-era]  orden  oE  ttM  Mute.  The  queitloii  of  mtd* 
vunolwiih  them  HimmcdiUc.  But  in  EnElan 
I  wunlhcrwisc.  On  Ihli  point  of  tun  the  ibia 
K0%  «nd  irwMt  eloquent  Eanffus  hive  b«n  eiei 
iied ;   (he  grcalcft  ipiriti  luvc  Acted  uid  tui 


rOHlely  lo  predominate  and  todecilnc.  "The 
g  o(  uiation."  obKrva  Mr.  Hallam,  '■  H  waite- 
KUi  biy  It  iidiffiailt  to  name  a  limit  bevoqd 
ch  taxcf  will  not  be  home  without  impatience 
»t  failhfiiay  apfUrd.'     In  pUincr  wocda.  tbii 


Slill  ihall  tne  InoDCent  word  be  hateful,  and  t 
people  will  lum  et-en  ou  their  best  friend,  who 

tinn,  if  rwl  alwayi  in  itt  pnctice,  long  had  a  ca 
tideratton  towariu  the  feclingt  of  the  people,  ai 

gnc^'ancc  wai  lone  the  olfice  cl  purveyance- 
'urrcyar  wat  an  officer  who  was  lo  fumiab  cvc 

in  of  proviiion  for  the  royal  houae,  and  ■omFtini 
J' great  lord*,  during  their  propewti  or  joume; 
III    opprTBlvc    0<rice,    by   arbitrarily   hung    E 


marlietsiricea,  an 

bnng  their   anie 


ta  04*  griodiiu  Ibc  labouring 
inanE  of  feudal  tyranny  1  Tbe 


italule  of  Edward  III.  tbe  haEcful  name  of  ptmjw 

A  chaoge  of  name,  it  w4  imu^ned,  wwld  ooDcal 
iti  nature  I  Tbe  term  often  dened  atrufldy  m- 
traned  with  Ibc  tbiutf  itaeJf.  Lcria  of  moibey 
were  long  rabed  under  Hk   pathelic  appcd  ol 


wardi  hai-lng  "  radc  about  Ihe  more  fut  «f  tbe 

ihnE  they  were  liberal  in  their  giftij"  oM  Pabiu 
adds,  "  ihc  which  way  of  Ebc  JeYj-ing  of  thil  money 


to  tbe  puriea  of  his  loyal  nibjecEs,  particularly  to 
killed  a  widow  for  havitigcoDtribateaaiui^nini 

JDTCil  at  Ihe  lingular  honour  and  ddigbl.  that  ion 

doubled  her  tmrvaUBti,  and  ■  KCOnd  kia  hMl 
ruined  hcTl  but  intheniccccdingreignofHicbanl 
la.  ttie  term  had  already  l«i  the  fmhnoj  of  in 
■niwccnce.     la  Ibe  ipeecb  which  the  Duke  of 

hall,  he  eiplained  Ihe  term  to  the  latiifuiion 


not  what  he  of  hr 


«ne  ihall  he  chir^edwitbil  in  fntun;  man)' 
lilia  having  been  mined  undcttheaepntcnded 
B."     His  luccesane,  however,  foixud  nbea»  to 

tiaena  of  London  appoded  to 


Tapeomly  irplied,  that  "  King  R 


Cf 


:  expect  ftum  a  grave  anhqnaiy  inrlMablc 
LEiciEy.     Tie  dnke  ii  made  by  BarringMHi  a 


/ 


THF  BOOK  "F  1>i:aTI!. 


t> 


fAtrt  should  not  be  raised  without  consent  of  par- 
1  l-Mfncnt  ! 

Charles  the  First,  amidst  his  urgent  wants,  at 
firrt  had  hoped,  by  the  pathetic  appeal  to  benrv9- 
Unut,  that  he  should  have  touched  the  hearts  of 
bn  uufnendly  commoners ;  but  the  term  of  bent- 
XHUne*  Dfored  onlucky.  The  resisten  of  taxation 
took  full  advantage  of  a  significant  meaning, 
which  bad  long  been  lott  in  tEe  custom ;  assert- 
ing by  thb  very  term  that  all  levies  of  money 
were  not  cocnpulsoiy,  but  the  volunury  ^fts  of 
the  people.  In  that  political  crisis,  when  m  the 
fuloesa  of  time  all  tbe  national  grievances,  which 
had  hitherto  been  kept  do%vn,  started  up  with 
one  voice,  tbe  courteous  term  strangely  contracted 
with  the  rough  demand.  Lord  Digby  said,  "  The 
granting  of  tubttdut,  under  so  preposterous  a  name 
as  of  a  benevolence,  was — a  malevolence.**  And 
Mr.  Grimstone  observed,  that  "  Thev  have  granted 
a  benevolence,  but  the  nature  of  tne  thing  agrees 
not  with  the  name**  The  nature  indeed  had  so 
entirely  changed  from  the  name,  that  when 
James  I.  had  tried  to  warm  the  hearts  of  his 
**  benevolent  **  pec^,  he  got  "  little  money,  and 
kMC  a  great  deal  of  love."  "  Subsidies,"  that  b, 
grants  made  by  pariiament,  observes  Arthur 
Wibon,  a  dispassionate  historian,  "get  more  of 
the 
nun 


neople't 


money,  but  exactions  enslave  the 


When  benevolences  had  become  a  grievance,  to 
diminish  tbe  odium  they  invented  more  invitins 
phrases.  The  subject  was  cautiously  informed 
that  tbe  sums  demanded  were  only  (oant ;  or  he 
was  honoured  bv  a  letter  under  the  prrvy  ual ;  a 
bond  which  the  king  engaged  to  reoay  at  a  definite 
period ;  but  privy  seau  at  length  came  to  be 
hawked  about  to  penons  coming  out  of  church. 
*'  Aivy  seals,"  says  a  manuscript  letter,  "  are 
flying  thick  and  threefold  in  nght  of  all  the  world, 
which  mi^t  surely  have  been  better  performed 
in  delivering  them  to  every  man  privately  at 
home."  Tbe  general  loan,  which  in  fact  was  a 
forced  loan,  was  one  of  tbe  most  crying  grievances 
under  Charies  1.  Ingenious  to  the  destruction  of 
his  own  popularity,  tbe  king  contrived  a  new 
mode,  of  **  secret  instructions  to  commissioners.'** 
Tbey  were  to  find  out  persons  who  could  bear 
the  largut  rates.  How  the  commissioners  were 
to  acquire  thn  secret  and  inquisitorial  knowledge 
appean  in  the  bungling  contrivance.  It  is  one 
of  their  orden  that  after  a  number  of  inquiries 
have  been  put  to  a  person,  concerning  others  who 
had  spoken  against  loan-money,  and  what  arsu- 
ments  they  £ui  used,  this  person  was  to  De 
charged  in  his  majesty's  name,  and  upon  hit  al- 
le^nce,  not  to  disclose  to  any  other  what  his 
answer  was  I  A  striking  instance  of  that  fatuity 
of  the  human  mind,  wnen  a  weak  government 
is  trving  to  do  what  it  knows  not  how :  it  was 
seeking  to  obtain  a  secret  purpose,  by  the  most 
open  and  general  means;  a  self-destroying  prin- 
ciple I 

Our  ancestors  were  children  in  finance;  their 
simplicity  has  been  too  often  described  as  tyranny  I 
but  from  my  soul  do  I  believe,  on  this  obscure 

*  These  "  Private  Instructions  to  the  Commis- 
rioners  for  the  General  Loan  "  may  be  found  in 
Ru^worth,  i.  418. 


subject  ol  taxation,  that  dUI  Burl<.ii;lr5  .nh  icc  to 
Elizabeth  includes  more  than  all  the  5«iuahi)linK 
pamphlets  of   our    iK)litical    economists  —  "win 

HEARTS,  AND  YOU  HAVK  THEIR  HANDS  AND 
PURSES  !" 


THB  BOOK  OP  DEATH. 

Montaigne  was  fond  of  reading  minute  ac- 
counts of  the  deaths  of  remarkable  persons ;  and, 
in  the  rimplicity  of  his  heart,  old  Montai^e 
wished  to  be  learned  enough  to  form  a  collection 
of  these  deaths,  to  observe  "  their  words,  their 
actions,  and  what  sort  of  countenance  they  put 
upon  it."  He  seems  to  have  been  a  little  over 
curious,  in  reference,  no  doubt,  to  his  own,  in 
which  he  was  certainly  deceived  ;  for  he  did  not 
die  as  he  had  promised  himself,— expiring  in  the 
adoration  of  tlie  mass ;  or,  as  his  preceptor  Bu- 
chanan would  have  called  it,  in  "  the  act  of  rank 
idolatry." 

I  have  been  told  of  a  privately  printed  volume, 
under  the  sii^ular  title  of  "  The  Bock  of  Death," 
where  an  amateur  has  compiled  the  pious  me- 
morials of  manv  of  our  eminent  men  in  their  last 
moments:  ana  it  may  form  a  companion-piece 
to  the  little  volume  on  "  Les  grands  nommes  qui 
sont  morts  en  plaisantant."  This  work,  I  fear, 
must  be  monotonoiu ;  the  deaths  of  the  righteous 
must  resemble  each  other;  the  learned  and  the 
eloquent  can  only  receive  in  silence  that  hope 
which  awaits  "  the  covenant  of  the  grave."  But 
this  volume  will  not  establish  an^  decisive  prin- 
ciple ;  since  the  just  and  the  religious  have  not 
always  encountered  death  with  indifference,  nor 
even  in  a  fit  composure  of  mind. 

The  functions  of  the  mind  are  connected  with 
those  of  the  body.  On  a  death-bed  a  fortnight's 
disease  may  reduce  the  firmest  to  a  most  wretched 
state ;  while,  on  the  contrary,  the  soul  struggles, 
as  it  were  in  torture,  in  a  robnst  frame.  Nani, 
the  Venetian  historian,  has  curiously  described 
the  death  of  Innocent  X .,  who  was  a  character 
unblemished  by  vices,  and  who  died  at  an  ad- 
vanced age,  with  too  robust  a  constitution.  Dopo 
iunga  e  terrihile  agonia,  con  inlere  e  con  pena,  u- 
perandosi  I'antma  da  quel  corpo  tohusto,  eglt  spiro 
at  sette  dt  Genuaro,  net  ottanteitmo  prima  de  suoi 
anno.  "  After  a  long  and  terrible  agony,  with 
great  bodily  pain  and  difficulty,  his  soul  separated 
Itself  firom  that  robust  frame,  and  expired  in  his 
dghty-first  year." 

Some  have  composed  sermons  on  death,  while 
they  passed  many  years  of  anxiety,  approaching 
to  madness,  in  contemplating  their  cwn.  The 
certainty  of  an  immediate  separation  from  all 
our  human  sympathies  may  even  on  a  death-bed, 
suddenly  disorder  the  imagination.  The  great 
physician  of  our  times  told  me  of  a  general,  who 
nad  often  faced  the  cannon's  mouih,  dropping 
down  in  terrtr,  when  informed  by  him  that  his 
diseue  was  rapid  and  fatal.  Some  have  died  of 
the  strong  imagination  of   death.     There   is  a 

Krint  of  a  knight  brought  on  the  scaffold  to  suffer : 
c  viewed  the  headsman ;  he  was  blinded,  and 
knelt  down  to  receive  the  stroke.  Having  passed 
through  the  whole  ceremony  of  a  criminal  exe- 
cution, accompanied  by  all  its  disgrace,  it  was 


/- 


THE  SOOS  OF  bEATS. 


TfaC  Lailtpid  MmTsbil  BiTDO  di^Eared  hi 
voDuniah  tern,  And  n^Dg  icr^ — "='-' 


'Gire  DATralea*  chtlrT"  "  Tbli  »od-brttding," 
ibaerTCfl  Ibe  lite  Dr,  Wirnn,  hb  pAjnician^  *'  onlr 


■ppoird  wMn  u«  declar 
Deuh  l>  aot  tetiiUc  to  m 


[BT  ahiA  for  m>-xll  1"     Sir  Wilier  kawkigh  pased 
a  tiiniUT  J0(  when  going  lo  tbc  icaiTald^ 

Hy  ingcDLOiu  Utnd  Ur.  ShcTWcb  has  fuiuiihcd 

onv  of  the  bJDody  bania  lunHbt  by  the  Duke  of 
BDgbicn^  two  PRDch  nobleipeii  wrrc  kA  woumled 

plained  LoudLv  of  hii  p«ni,  the  other  aTter  Ions 
■ikDce  thui  nilRnl  him  canKlalUm :—"  My  ftirnd, 
whoDici-ei  you  an,  remember  thu  our  God  died 
DB  the  (roB,  our  kini  on  the  Kaffoid ;  and  if  you 
have  itreoglh  lo  looK  al  him  who  now  tpeiln  to 
you,  you  «Ul  tee  thai  both  hli  legi  ireihcit  away." 
At  (be  murder  or  the  Duke  of  Boghiena  the 


Hr.  Ahemclhy   in  hit  ni>tiolDgicaI   Ledum 
hai  inceniousljr  observed,  that  "  ahakopeaic  hai 


pliiL^HUU°tackiiig1ii>" 


eapnmiani,  which  the  coUector  of  "  The  Book  of 

hope  is  not  giihered  in  their  lul  hour. 

Yet  man.  with  ui  bar*  delighted  lo  t«e  of 
death  lone  Kfore  Ehey  bare  diea,ind  have  placed 
before  theii  eyes  ill  the  furniture  nf  mortality. 

Ibeir  pleasure.  Tbe  "  Midnight  Medilaiiou  "  of 
Qnarles  preceded  Young's  "  Nighl  TlwDgfaci "  by 
a  century,  and  both  these  poets  loved  pretvnLaturml 

'*  If  I  must  die,  VW  snateh  at  every  thine 

dfo"!  arf  uitfiil,  whenever  they  put  a  nun  out  of 
thepoBesionof  his  facalEieg.  Young  punued  the 
fcbeiibe  of  Quarles  i  he  raised  about  him  tn  arti- 
ficial emotion  of  death  i  be  darkened  fait  sepulchral 
tindy,  ptacini  a  skull  on  his  table  by  lamplight ; 
as  Dr.  Donne  had  his  portrait  liken,  first  winding 
a  sheet  over  his  head  and  clotinu  bis  eyes ;  keeping 
Ibis  melancholy  picture  by  his  ped-«de  at  long  as 

even  in  hit  ^uxlen  h^  hit  conceits  m  death:  it 


onoftbelhingi 

orrh-i. 

k;!r.,t^;,^ 

tt 

.r>?'=?!5 

pt  have  hasten 

ed  the  pttmat 

/ 


THi:  IinnK  f'F  VKATIL 


45 


vrne  rf  L.idv  Gcthin's  idcis  on  "  De.ith." — "  The 
icry  thought*  of  dc<ith  disturb  (»nc's  reason;  and 
though  a  man  mav  have  many  excellent  qualities, 
vet  he  may  have  the  weakness  of  not  commanding 
bis  sentiments.  Nothing  is  wone  for  one's  health, 
than  to  be  in  fear  of  death.  There  are  some  so 
ise,  at  neither  to  bate  nor  fear  it ;  but  for  my 
part  I  bare  an  aversion  for  it,  and  with  reason ; 
lor  it  is  a  rash,  inconsiderate  thin^,  that  always 
conus  before  it  is  looked  for ;  alwa>-s  comes  un* 
..jsonably,  inrts  friends,  ruins  beatitv,  laughs  at 
youth,  ami  draws  a  dark  veil  o\-er  all  the  pleasures 
of  life. — ^This  dreadful  e\'il  is  but  the  evil  of  a 
moment,  and  what  we  cannot  by  any  means 
avoid ;  and  it  is  that  which  makes  it  so  terrible  to 
me ;  for  were  it  uncertain,  hope  might  diminish 
some  part  of  the  fear ;  but  when  I  mink  I  must 
die,  and  that  I  may  die  e\'eTy  moment,  and  that 
too  a  thousand  se%'cral  wa>-s,  I  am  in  such  a  fright, 
as  you  cannot  imagine.  I  see  dangers  where,  per- 
haps, there  never  were  any.  I  am  persuaded  'tis 
happy  to  be  somewhat  dull  of  apprehension  in  this 
case ;  and  yet  the  best  way  to  cure  the  pensivcness 
of  the  thoughts  of  death  is  to  think  pf  it  as  little  as 
possible."  She  proceeds  by  enumerating  the  ter- 
rors  of  the  fearful,  who  "  cannot  enjoy  themselves 
in  the  pleasantest  places,  and  although  they  are 
neither  on  sea,  river,  or  creek,  but  in  good  health 
in  their  chamber,  jret  are  they  so  well  instructed 
with  the/ror  ^  dying,  that  they  do  not  measure  it 
only  by  the  present  dangers  that  wait  on  us. — ^Then 
tk  it  not  best  to  submit  to  God  ?  But  some  people 
cannot  do  it  as  they  would ;  and  though  they  are 
not  destitute  of  reason  but  perceive  they  are  to 
Mune,  yet  at  the  same  time  that  their  reason  con- 
dicmns  them,  their  imagination  makes  their  hearts 
feel  what  it  pleases." 

Snch  is  the  picture  of  an  ingenuous  and  a  rcli- 
^tn  mind,  drawn  by  an  amiable  woman,  who,  it 
b  evident,  lived  always  in  the  fear  of  death.  The 
Gothic  skeleton  was  ever  haunting  her  imagina* 
tion.  In  Dr.  Johnson  the  same  horror  was  sug- 
gested by  the  thoughts  of  death.  When  Boswell 
once  in  convervition  persecuted  Johnson  on  this 
subject,  whether  we  might  not  fortify  our  minds 
for  the  approach  of  death  ;  he  answered  in  a  pas- 
sion, "  No,  sir !  let  it  alone !  It  matters  not  how  a 
man  dies,  but  how  he  lives  I  The  art  of  dying  is 
not  of  importance  it  lasts  so  short  a  time  I"  But 
when  Boswell  persisted  in  the  conversation,  John- 
son was  thrown  into  such  a  state  of  agitation,  that 
he  thundered  out,  "  Give  us  no  more  of  this !" 
and,  further,  sternly  told  the  trembling  and  too 
curious  philosopher,  "  Don't  let  us  meet  to- 
morrow !" 

It  may  be  a  question  whether  those  who  by 
their  preparatory  conduct  have  appeared  to  show 
the  greatest  indiflference  for  death,  have  not  rather 
betrayed  the  most  curious  art  to  disguise  its  terrors. 
Some  have  invented  a  mode  of  escaping  from  life 
in  the  midst  of  convivial  enjoyment.  A  mortuary 
preparation  of  this  kind  has  been  recorded  of  an 
amiable  man,  Moncriff,  the  author  of  "  Histofre 
des  Chats  "  and  *'  L' Art  de  PUire,"  by  his  literary 
friend  La  Place,  who  was  an  actor  in,  as  well  as  the 
historian  of  the  singular  narrative.  One  morning 
La  Place  received  a  note  from  Moncnff,  requesting 
that  "  he  would  immediately  select  for  him  a  dozen 
volumes  most  likely  to  amuse,  and  of  a  nature  to 


withdraw  the  reader  from  hcin^  occiipi<rd  hv 
melancholy  thouglits."  La  Place  was  Mart  led  at 
the  unusual  request,  and  flew  to  his  old  friend, 
whom  he  found  deeplv  en'^jgcd  in  being  measured 
for  a  new  peruke,  ana  a  tai^ty  robe  de  chamhre, 
earnestly  enjoining  the  utmost  expedition.  "  Shut 
the  door!" — said  Moncriff, obscr\'ing  the  surprise 
of  his  friend.  "  And  now  that  we  are  alone,  I  con- 
fide my  secret :  on  rising  this  morning,  my  valet  in 
dressing  me  showed  me  on  this  leg  this  clark  sjpot 
— from  that  moment  I  knew  I  was '  condemned  to 
death ;'  but  I  had  presence  of  mind  cnou^  not  to 
betray  myself."  "  Can  a  head  so  well  organised  as 
yours  imagine  that  such  a  trifle  is  a  sentence  of 
death  ?" — "  Don't  speak  so  loud,  my  friend  !— or 
rather  deign  to  listen  a  moment.  At  my  age  it  is 
fatal !  The  system  from  which  I  have  derived  the 
felicity  of  a  long  life  has  been,  that  whenever  any 
evil,  rhoral  or  ph>'sical,  h.nppens  to  us,  if  there  is  a 
rcmedv,  all  must  be  sacrificed  to  deliver  us  from  it 
— but  m  a  contrary  case,  I  do  not  choose  to  wrestle 
with  destiny  and  to  begin  complaints,  endless  as 
useless !  All  that  I  request  of  you,  my  friend,  is  to 
assist  me  to  pass  awav  the  few  days  which  remain 
for  me,  free  from  all  cares,  of  which  otherwise 
they  might  be  too  susceptible.  But  do  not  think," 
he  added  with  warmth,"  that  I  mean  to  elude  the 
religious  duties  of  a  citizen,  which  so  many  of  late 
affect  to  contemn.  The  good  and  virtuous  curate 
of  my  parish  is  coming  here  under  a  pretext  of  an  / 
annual  contribution,  and  I  have  even  ordered  my 
physician,  on  whose  confidence  I  can  rely.  Here  is  ^ 
a  list  of  ten  or  twelve  persons,  friends  beloved !  i 
who  are  mostly  known  to  you.  I  shall  wrif*  to  ' 
them  this  evenmg,  to  tell  them  of  my  condemna- 
tion ;  but  if  they  wish  me  to  live,  they  will  do  me 
the  favour  to  assemble  here  at  five  in  the  evening, 
where  they  may  be  certain  of  finding  all  those 
objects  of  amusement,  which  I  shall  study  to  dis- 
cover suitable  to  their  tastes.  And  you,  my  old 
friend,  with  my  doctor,  are  two  on  whom  I  most 
depend." 

La  Place  was  strongly  affected  by  this  appeal — 
neither  Socrates,  nor  Cato,  nor  Seneca  looked  more    i 
serenely  on  the  approach  of  death. 

*•  Familiarise  yourself  early  with  death  !"  said  the  f 
good  old  man  w^ith  a  smile ;  "it  is  only  dreadful 
for  those  who  dread  it !" 

During  ten  days  after  this  singular  conversation, 
the  whole  of  MdncriH'''s  remaininf^  life,  his  apart- 
ment was  open  to  his  friends,  of  whom  several 
were  ladies ;  all  kinds  of  games  were  played  till 
nine  o'clock,  and  that  the  sorrows  of  the  host 
might  not  disturb  his  guests,  he  played  the  ehouette 
at  his  favourite  game  of  picquet :  a  supper,  seasoned 
by  the  wit  of  the  master,  concluded  at  eleven.  On 
the  tenth  night,  in  taking  leave  of  his  friend,  Mon- 
criff  whispered  to  him, "  Adieu,  my  friend !  to- 
morrow morning  I  shall  return  your  books !"  He 
died,  as  he  foresaw,  the  following  day. 

I  have  sometimes  thought  that  we  might  form  a 
history  of  this  fear  t^f  death,  by  tracing  the  first 
appearances  of  the  skeleton  which  haunts  our 
funereal  imagination.  In  the  modern  history  of 
mankind  we  might  discover  some  very  strong  con- 
trasts in  the  notion  of  death  entertained  by  men  at 
various  epochs.  1\\t  following  article  will  supply 
a  sketch  of  this  kind. 


m  '%. 


'^V^V^f 


^gm^^^mtm 


^^^v 


ni3T0RT  OF  THE  SKELETON  OF  DEATH. 


HVrORV  OP  THE  SKELBTON  O 


TlKimunliJuniDfevn.itiniiiCiinuDe.tDalt  ibe 
erih  <if  Life ;  Ktr  thoc  might  change  T  But  ibouEli 
tb^  did  nM  court  the  pntcMe  of  death  in  my 
■tllpc,  Ihcv  acknowledRcd  Iti  tnnquitUli'  i  ind  in 
the  heautjfui  (ihla  of  their  alkgorical  Rliginn, 
Dnih  wai  Ihc  daughtn  of  Night,  and  the  iiMet  of 
Sleep!  and  erer  tbe friend  oTlheuDhipin'l  '^ 
the  elemid  »l«p  ef  death  Ihcv  dedicated  their 

full  liehl  of  retelation  had  not  >-el  btoken  on 
them,  It  ciD  hardly  be  denied  that  they  hid  some 

amy  allegorical  inienliont  vhich  dcictibe  the 

eilrtmity  of  an  eitingnisbed  lamp,  held  Dp  hy 
"■" Rnger  of  the  godt  inlentlr  filing  above, 


iirlu  of  aatiquil)'*— lo  coDcod  Hi  defcnsity  id 
c  eve.  IS  well  u  to  elude  IB  lu^alioB  ta  Ibe 
ind,  leemi  to  have  been  an  niufenal  fceJing. 
id  it  aceorded  »ilh  a  Euodamaiul  |i(tBdt4e  of 
cient  art ;  thai  of  never  oOerlua 

destroyed  the  beauty     ' 


_  leral,"  Winkelmm  observes,  "•  Ihey  me  por- 
tlijed  aa  beautiful  viigiDS,  with  viriHd  beMki,ooc 
Of  whom  baJwayi  inihe  attitude  of  writiog  on  a 


iiu  Itieir,  eleglAlly  deAOIei 


ri  p^nfuJ  recollHtlou.    Tbcy  did  not  pollnti 
beir  Imainiulion  with  the  nntcnti  of  a  efaamef 

BiuM.    Tike  urcophagi  of  (he  ancients  rather  re 


Hley  dimijed  ita  very  name  by  tome  periphraiii, 
tuchasdUtfjvU'Vjfd,  "hehatdepvted  from  life  ^" 
and  they  did  no)  lay  that  their  friend  had  iii4,  bul 
that  hebadfnrYi'i  vijtUf  Even  amons  a  people 
lev  refined  the  obtmtivc  Idea  of  death  tiai  been 
Mudiously  aroldcd ;  we  are  told  thai  vhen  Ibe 


hw  recently  dl 


it  iia^mst  etiquette  lo 


S'"'^*^ 


A  JeWi  death  ii 


hv  "The  iDtidel  n  dead!"  or»  "The  cuckold  ii 

Tlie  artim  of  anUquily  have  »  rarely  aitempted 
a  peiwniry  Death,  that  we  have  not  diicovercd  i 

•  Hontfaucon,  L'Aotlqiule  EipliquM,  t,  J6i, 


'    eieguliniigeaafrepoK 


or  "  the  bouie  of  ihc  lleing  ;■■  Ibe  Oermin 
eligiovi  (iniplicity, "  God-i  lield." 
ence,  Ihea,  oriranaled  that  atilking  dielelou, 
su^cating  an  many  falie  and  sepulchnl  ideas,  anil 
which  for  ui  hai  ID  long  lerved  ai  (he  image  oi 

ulien  Ibe  Chriilian  rclicEion  aoread  over  Eurow 
the  world  changed  -.  the  ceruintv  of  a  future  flan 
of  eiineBce,  by  the  artjlira  ot  wiclied  worldl) 

and  in  the  reiurrcction  the  ignorant  mulliiudi 
leemedtjtber  Id  ha«  dreaded  wtnbution.  Ihu 


'rm  of  Ignorartt  liid  hypochondriac 
I  hingl."  The  scene  was  daikenrd  by 
d  by  iHlgrimagei,  by  midnight  vicils 


obicTviag.  '*  after  death  vou  wiH  re 
are  T  drink  then  \  and  he  happy  V  a  i 
IH  in  »  convivial  party  wai  not  dcii( 


r 


Hi^T'iRV  OF  Tin:  sKi:i.rr<>\  of  niwrn. 


■55 


by  miraculous  *hrinc5,  and  Ho<>(i\  fl.\):til  ui'mi ; 
spectres  started  up  amidst  their  tinirbrtt  .  millions 
cf  mas.sc4  increased  their  supernatural  iniliiencc. 
Amidst  this  general  gloom  of  Europe,  their  troubled 
imaginations  were  frequently  predictmg  ihv  end 
oTtbe  world.  It  was  at  this  period  that  the\'  first 
beheld  the  grare  yawn,  and  Death  in  the  Gothic 
fonii  of  anant  anatomy  parading  through  the  uni- 
verse! l^e  people  were  frightened,  as  thr\-\iewcd 
cvcrywhcfe  bung  before  their  eyes,  in  thc'twili^ht 
of  tbeir  cathedrals,  and  their  "  pale  cloisters,"  the 
moat  TCTolting  emblems  of  death.  They  startled 
the  tras-eller  on  the  bridge ;  they  stared  on  the 
sinner  in  the  carvings  of  his  table  or  his  chair ;  the 
spectre  moved  in  the  hangini;s  of  the  apartment ; 
it  stood  in  the  niche,  and  was  the  picture  of  their 
sittin^-room  ;  it  was  worn  in  their  rings  wtiilc  the 
illaminator  shaded  the  bony  phantom  m  the  mar- 
gins.of  their  "  horae,"  their  primers,  and  their  bre- 
viaries. Their  barbarous  taste  perceived  wn  rfb- 
surdity  in  giving  action  to  a  heap  of  dry  bone«, 
which  could  only  keep  together  in  a  state  ol  im- 
movcability  and  repose ;  nor  that  it  was  biirlesiiuiag 
the  awful  idea  of  the  rcsurrectton,  by  exhibiting 
the  incorruptible  spiiit  under  the  unnatural  ana 
Indicnms  figure  of  mortality  drawn  out  of  the  cor- 
ruption of  the  grave. 

An  anecdote  of  these  monkish  times  has  been 
pteaerved  by  old  Gerard  Leigh ;  and  as  old  stories 
are  best  set  off  by  old  woras,  Gerard  speaketh  * 
"  The  great  Maximilian  the  emperor  came  to  a 
monasterv  in  high  Almaine  (Germany),  the  monks 
whereof  had  caused  to  be  curiously  painted  the 
chamel  of  a  man,  which  they  termed — Death  ! 
When  that  well-learned  empctor  had  beholden  it 
awhile,  he  called  unto  him  his  painter, command- 
ing to  blot  the  skeleton  out,  and  to  paint  therein 
the  image  of— a  fool.  Wherewith  the  ablxit, 
humbly  beseeching  him  to  the  contrary,  said, '  It 
was  a  good  remembrance  I'  —  *  Nav,'  quoth  the 
emperor, '  as  vermin  that  annoyetfi  man's  body 
conteth  unlocked  for,  so  doth  death,  which  here  is 
but  a  fained  image,  and  life  is  a  certain  thing,  if 
we  know  to  deserve  it.'  "*  The  original  mind  of 
Maximilian  the  Great  is  characterise  by  this  cu- 
rious stdry  of  converting  our  emblem  of  death 
into  a  party-coloured  fool ;  and  such  satirical  allu- 
sions to  the  folly  of  those  who  peraiMed  in  their 
notion  of  the  skeleton  were  not  unusual  with  the 
artists  of  those  times ;  we  find  the  figure  of  a  fool 
utting  with  some  drollery  between  the  legs  of  one 
of  these  skelctons."t 

This  story  is  associated  with  an  imjportant  fact. 
After  they  had  successfully  terrified  the  people 
with  their  chamel-hou^  figure,  a  reaction  in  the 
public  feelings  occurred,  for  the  skeleton  wan  now 
employed  as  a  medium  to  convey  the  movt  face- 
tious, satirical,  and  burlesque  notions  of  human 
life.  Death,  which  had  so  long  harassed  their 
ima^nations,  suddenly  changed  into  a  theme  fer- 
tile in  coarse  humour.  l*he  Italians  were  too  long 
accustomed  to  the  study  of  the  beautiful  to  allow 
their  pencil  to  sport  with  deformit>';  but  the 
Gothic  taste  of  the  German  artists,  who  could 
only  copy  their  own  homely  nature,  delighted  to 

*  The  Accidence  of  Armorie,  p.  199. 
t  A  woodctit  prescnred  in  Mr.  Dibdin'i  pib. 
Dec.  i  1%, 


L'lvc  huMim  p.f»s!>tii  to  tr.f  IihIicim  j'li\  N:'>L;nf>niv 
'  of  a  ntwclevs  skull ;  to  put  an  eye  ol  mockery  or 
j  malignity  Into  its  hollow  socket,  and  to  stretch  out 
the  gaunt  anatomy  into  the  (tontures  of  a  Hogarth  ; 
and  that  the  ludicrous  miglit  be  carried  to  its  ex- 
treme, this  imaginar>-  being,  taken  from  the  bone- 
house,  was  viewed  in  the  action  of  dancini^  f  This 
blending  of  the  grotesque  with  the  mmt  disgusting 
iinaee  of  mortality,  is  the  more  singular  part  of 
this  nistory  of  the  skeleton,  and  indeed  of  human 
nature  itself! 

••  The  Dance  of  Death  "  bv  Holbein,  with  other 
similar  dancrt,  however  dilfisrentlv  treated,  have 
one  common  subject,  which  w.(s  p.iinted  in  the 
arcades  of  burying-grounds.  or  on  town-halls,  and 
in  market-places.  'Hie  ^ubJect  is  uiMially  the  skele- 
ton in  the  act  of  le.uling  all  ranks  and  conditions 
to  the  grave,  personated  after  nature,  and  in  the 
strict  costume  of  the  times,  'fhis  invention  opened 
a  new  field  for  genius ;  and  when  we  can  for  a 
moment  forget  their  luckless  choice  of  their  bony 
and  bloodless  hero,  who  to  amuse  us  l)y  a  variety 
of  action  becomes  a  sort  of  horrid  harlequin  in 
these  pantomimical  scenes,  we  may  be  delighted 
bv  the  numerous  human  characters,  which  are  so 
vividly  presented  to  us.  The  origin  of  this  extra- 
ordinary invention  is  supposed  to  be  a  favourite 
pageant,  or  religious  mummery,  invented  b^  the 
clergy,  who  in  these  ages  of  barbarous  Christianity 
always  found  it  necessary  to  amuse,  as  well  as  to 
frighten  the  populice ;  a  circumstance  well  known 
to  nave  occurred  in  so  many  other  grotesque  and 
licentious  festivals  they  allowed  the  people.  This 
pageant  was  performed  in  churches,  in  which  the 
chief  characters  in  society  were  supported  in  a  sort 
of  masquerade,  mixing  together  in  a  general  dance, 
in  the  course  of  which  every  one  in  his  turn  va- 
nished from  the  scene,  to  show  how  one  after  the 
other  died  off.*  The  subject  was  at  once  poetical 
and  ethical ;  and  the  poets  and  painters  of  Ger- 
many adopting  the  skeleton,  Mrnt  forth  this  chime- 
rical Ulysses  of^  another  world  to  roam  among  the 
men  and  manners  of  their  own.  One  Macal)er 
composed  a  popular  pf)em,  and  the  old  Ctaulinh 
version  reformed  is  still  printed  at  Troyes,  in 
France,  with  the  ancient  blocks  of  woodcuts, 
under  the  title  of  "  La  grande  U;uise  Macabre  iles 
hommes  et  des  femmes."  Merian's  "Todtcn 
Tans,"  or  the  "  Dance  of  the  Dead,"  is  a  curious 
set  of  prints  of  a  dance  of  death  from  an  ancient 
painting,  I  think  not  entirely  defaced,  in  a  cemetery 
at  Basle,  in  Switzerland.  It  was  ordered  to  Ik* 
painted  by  a  council  which  was  held  there  during 
many  yean,  to  commemorate  the  mortality  occa- 
sioned by  a  plague  in  1439.  The  prevailing  cha- 
racter of  all  these  works  is  unquestionably  grotes(]ue 
and  ludicn>us ;  not,  however,  that  gcniiis,  however 
barban)us,  could  refrain  in  this  large  subject  of 
human  life  from  inventing  scenes  often  imagined 
with  great  delicacy  of  conception  and  even  great 
pathos  !  Such  is  the  new-married  couple,  whom 
I)eath  is  leading,  beating  a  drum,  and  in  the  rap- 
ture of  the  hour,  the  bride  seems  with  a  melan- 
choly look,  not  insensible  of  his  presence ;  or 
Death  is  seen  issuing  from  the  cottage  of  the  p<K>r 

*  Mr.  Douce  has  poured  forth  hit  curimis  know- 
ledge on  this  subject  in  a  dissertation  prefixed  to  a 
valuable  edition  of  Hollar's  *•  D«ncc  of  Death." 


BISTORT  Of  THE  8KELBT0S  OF  DEATH. 


while  be  u  umcd  O0  in  calm  ImqiaillitT-  Tb« 
fremtcr  p*rt  rrf  Ihoe  ubinU  of  deilh  an,  bow- 
CTCTi  IndicTmu ;  And  it  may  be  «  qucif  jod.  whether 
ISle  oectlton  of  thae  fUaro  of  dcith  did  doI 

enwIiDu.  Ignonpt  and  tnrlSed  aa  (he  people 
were  at  the  new  oE  the  ikeleton,  erCD  Ibe  mwcB 
■impUcily  couJd  Dot  (ail  to  langb  at  nine  S  tbcoe 
doineatic  acenea  and  bmilLar  pemm  dnwn  fnjni 
among  IhemKlvei.    The  fkeKtoDt  ikcletoo  u  it 

mimica,  while  eitn  iQ  hidecot  tkull  is  made  to 
ekpRb  erery  divenifieil  character,  and  the  touII 
la  nan!  to  deacribc  {  Tor  we  ire  at  once  amusefl 
and  diHutted  with   to  much  genina  founded  on 

When  the  anist  loccceded  in  conveying  to  the 
eye  tbc  moat  ludicrous  notiana  of  death,  the  poea 

baeebeciicomt^Dedwilhthliiubjecl.  Theymadc 
Ihe  body  and  the  Hml  debate  toKetbet,  and  lidl- 
coled  the  conipliinti  of  a  damned  »bL  I  The 
gnatA  pari  of  the  poets  of  the  time  were  always 
compannf  on  the  luhjecl  of  Death  in  their  bu- 


tHvtri  biirU^itri,ibJ,i  •''  Jacquei  JacqiiA,aea 
of  Ambnin,  wu  the  writer,  wbo  hnmoroiuly  l_.. 
of  himaelf,  that  be  girea  Ida  Ihoughls  joit  aa  tlley 
lie  on  h<9  heart,  without  diiilmuliHon;  "'"  ' 

I  tell  thee  tome  of  the  maM  Impoitanl  tru 

Tliii  Kmc  irolume  waa  procured  for  me  wilb 


with  the  luivrl/  of  eipmion  which  belongs  Ii 

eaceb  m  plenntry ;  hia  hau^iy  hero  condescend 
to  hold  Tery  ainimng  dialogues  with  aU  clanei  e 

alaTe,  Ihe  mendicant,  alike  woiUd  escape  when  hi 
anpean  to  them,  "  Were  I  not  atooiate  ore 
them,"  Death  eiclaima,  •■Ihey  would  eontouw 
me  with  Ibeir  long  q>eeches  j  but  1  have  buuneai 
and  must  gallop  on }"    Hb  geogrtphicil  rhyme 


■Coujet  Bib.  FnocobCiTol,  i,  taj. 


Doit  prendie  de  moy  tahlature  '-"* 
The  perpetual  emaloymenb  of  Derth  dis] 


Crilbomme  et  le  bcrger, 
r^ia  ei  le  boulangcr. 


A  quelque  autre,  ju  moliaiiil  I'beure 

J'en  pttndi  no.  pendant  qu'il  le  l^ei 
H  pttnds  le  milnde  et  le  sain 
J'en  suTwends  un  dedans  son  lict 
i'en  surprends  un  le  ventre  pleio 
J'attrapc  I'un  padant  qu'il  prie, 

Entre  le  bUinc  et  le  clairet, 

A  son  ZMeu  rend  honneur  et  glosic : 
J'en  luipreDdi  nn  Iots  qu'il  le  paame 
Le  jour  qu'il  tooose  sa  (emme, 


THE  RIVAL  BIOaRAPHERS  OF  HEYLm.                       457  1 

Thii  TeilofE^etyinthtolilciiiionof  Amhnin 

imen  dctpcr  ind  mote  phikBophicii  Iho.iKhB 

lai'i  of  in  lutbor'i  tenaeince,  mortilied  by  the 

Ihjn  the  imgoljr  moiil  nf  Iiraling  <a  lOlcma  1 
Ihtmt.    H(  fi»  inlrod.iccd  nuny  vxsa  of  bu- 

It  appeiri  thai  Vernon  had  been  •elected  by 

(he  »n  of  Heilin,  in  preference  to  hi>  brother- 

in-law.  Dr.  Barnard,  from  (ome  family  diugree- 

IhU  "No  min,  eieeplhimielf,  \i\a  wu  lotilly 

Tim  duo  mofCTi."  "Ie,pieiuc"  the  "boiHjcoi.," 

the  "chnohie,"  the  "  pinvn  toiau,"  the  "  md- 

ignorant  of  the  Doctor,  aud  all  the  eircumSancei 
S  bil  life,  would  have  engaged  in  inch  a  work. 

decin,"  ia  a  i^rd,  m  nski  in  life  in  ohiMted. 

•.iii.Uthe"d*K:..old;.th."     Btiloutableet 

which  wai  never  primarily  laid  out  for  him,  but 

of  wlicio::  theie  'oatleMn=p»inHnannd  poeim 
ti  to  ihAT    ih.it  •»«•  the  rionkif  OMht  bid. 

byr™ono(«me  unh.ppv  dUfcrenco, «  u,n^y 
(all  out  in  ramiUeii  and  he  vrho  lovei  to  piit  hii 

open    '  >'--  gcncTlllg.Q:   it  mcllDchaty  and  tri- 
buUtion  0-.  -r  BuRpo,  Md  given  blnh  to  Ihit 

up,  hath  mide  them  irtier."             c       g     em 

di<m.l  rt.(./,,  ^fttlh,  .hr-h  rtUl  tmifie.  the 

Barnard  lelb  bit  Bory  plainly.     Heylin.  the 

imiginitL.ti  ^  n=aT,  »  trKtion  of  feeling  wu 

eiperirnced  by  the  poputoee,  wba  it  length  cime 
to  liugh  •!  the  gloomy  ipeclie  irhicti  hid  « long 

hli   filhel   prefixed  10  hil   workt.   Dr.    Barnard, 

il.     Miny  confercncei  were  held,  ind  the  »n 

THE  RIVAL  BIOOkAPHHia  OF  HKYLIN. 

eutruited  him  with  >neral  papeti.     Bui  luddenlv 
hil  caprice,  more  than  hl>  judgment,  fancied  that 
Oeotge  Vernon  wai  worib  John  Barnard.    The 

Pnm  HiTLiH  wu  one  o(  the  popuUr  wiiten 

doctor  iftcti  to  dcKtibe  hU  rejecUon  with  the 

of  hi>  tTma.Uke  PuiiLuind  hdwill,  who,  de- 

moit Sraea)   indiifctence.      He  telU   m,   "1  wu 

voting  their    imuiing    peni    to  Klbjettl    which 

laiiificd.  ind  did  patiently  expect  the  coming 

deeply  interested  their  own  bu>y  «e,  •ill  not 
be  ilighled  by  the   curiuu.     We  hi»e  neirly 

forth  of  the  work,  not  only  term  aftet  term,  but 

outlived  their  diilnitv.  bul   nol  thelt  politia. 

1  tract.    Bui  al  lut,  iwlead  of  Ihe  life,  came  a 
letter  to  a»  from  a  bookacliet  In  London,  who 

whicK  muM  be  cut  down  by  the  -:yU.eot  -nme  i 

lived  at  the  >ign  of  the  Black  Boy.  in  Fleet  Btreel." 
Now  it  »m>  that  he  who  tlved  •<  the  Black 

but  the  gtea  puunu  bniKhing  from  the  tree 
of  life  He  itill  ''growing  with  our  gmwth." 
There  ue  two  Uognphiei  oT  oar   Hivliv, 

Boy  bid  combined  with  another  who  lived  al  the 

Fleut  de  Luce,  and  that  the  Fleur  de  1  uce  hid 

which  led  to  •  Utemy  qmml  of  in  amordinjry 

mured  the  Blick    Boy   thai   Dr.  BamanI   WH 

nature ;  and,  In  the  piogren  o(  it»  tecret  hiuoiy. 
■11  the  feeUngi  of  nvil  luthmihip  were  cjiUed 

concerned  in  writing  Ihe  Life  of  He.lin,— Ihii 

peared  that  "one  Mr.  Vernon,  of  tlioiicewer," 

°"h..l.n  died  in  lt6).    Dr.  B.m«d,  hi.  >on- 

iii-liw.ind  a  Kholat,  eommunicited  a  rtrtch  of 

^n'J,"  hS  bleiTc"  like*™m'b.  ind  w"r»"arfi.I 

the  author^  life  to  be  preliied  la  i  pomhumoui 
tbi.o,  of  whicb  nerUnlioD  wu  the  e<litar.     Thii 
life  wj!  (riTCD  by  ite  nn.  but  »nonjdiomly,  whith 
miy  BolTufe  gnUAed  the  aotbor,  the  lon-in-liw. 

ID  trip  onlofit.»heltet,thil  >I  allowi  the  Bil.k 

Boy  and  Ihe  Fleur  de  Luce  to  communicate  iu 

pipen  to  any  one  they  choK,  ind  eri«,  or  add. 

at  their  pleaiure. 

Twenlyyeiin  bad  elapted  when,  in  168],  ap- 
peared "The  Life  of  Dr.  r«tcr  Heylin,  by  Oeoree 
Vernon."    The  writer,  alluding  to  the  prior  life 

^It  occurred  w  the  Black  Boy.  on  Ihi,  propoMd 
idditinn,  luhlriction,'  and   division ;    that   Ihe 

boITqwing»me(liingfnnn   Barnard,  Barnard  had 

originaUy  engaged"  in    Ihe    wo'rk,   wL' our    Dr. 
Bamildi  ind  he  rent  the  packaee  to  Ihe  doctor, 
who  mided  near  Lincoln. 

alio  "  Excerpted  nuugn  oot  of  mi  ff'h  'he 
tery  word!  H  well  ai  mallei,  when  be  had  them 
Id  bn  cunody,  «  any  reader  may  dijcem  who 

The  doctor.  It  appean,   hid  no  appelile  lot  1 
diA  drened  by  inother,  while  he  himKlf  wa>  in 

the  very  act  oltbr  cookery ;  and  il  wai  ludeied 

ID  lie  cold  (br  three  weeki  at  the  ciirier  .. 

by  a  dediculan  to  the  wn  and  the  nephew  of 

Heylin,    koiued  wn*  iuo  action,  the  hidignaol 

bootaeUefi  deiciiption.  both  lame  ind  imper- 

fecti  111  begun,  wone  carried  on,  ind  abruptly 

which  he  preliud  -A  neeemry  Vindication." 

conclnded,"     The  leirned  doctor  e.erciml  Ihat 

Thii  b  an  unKwing  ciHigation  of  Yemen,  the 
lilmty  pet  i^m  tbe  Heyliiu  hid  fondled  in 

had  inveited  Vimj— he   very   obligingly   showed 

preference  to  their  kimed  relati.e.    The  long- 

tiAratiou  of  hteiiry  pride,  aftet  ibe  lubterra- 

lay  togelbet,  and  how  10  put  them  in  order ; 

001,  ud  the  ToloDlc  pin>cle>  Bew   about   In 

tf  hli  reiecUons  were  copiou.,  lo  .how  his  good 

THE  Mr±L  BIOQRA^HBRS  OF  BBTLIS. 


wUI  B  vrdi  ■■  bia  KTni^t  hti  idditim  ir 


Si"! 


iw  liTiog.  .nd  oogti 
c  bHgnphcr."    He  i 


he  had  Dot  knugined  thjd  tbc 

ud  vbcn  he  a^cd  fcr  coTTCctjOD,  b? 
cxMctcd  aU  michl  end  in  a  comidimeiil. 


hn  dMebil  i 
ibd  mangled  "  I 
i  of  Ihank*  ft< 


by  Z>r.  Bimard, 

.„ Aom  Wm  (Dr,  Banufd), 

and  the  mum  of  coDnnDaciriUt^.bc  diibgnred 

but  he  feJL  opon  tbem  ai  a  lion  rampant,  or  the 
cat  upDn  the  poor  cock  in  the  Cible»  Myinfc  Tu 
Im4it  mM  dUrtrptrii—iD  my  papen  came  home 
naeribly  clawed,  btnlled.  and  blnnid ;  whole 
Rntencei  ditmcmbcnd,  and  paga  tcratchcd  out; 
Kteral  Icivn  OEnitled  vhich  aught  to  be  printed, 
— ahamerully  he  naed  my  copy;  v>  thai  before  k 
waa  caizicd  to  Ibe  preH,  he  awoopcd  a««y  the 
lecond  pan  of  the  life  whoU^  from  il — in  the 
room  of  which  be  ibulfled  in  ■  pTepoftcroui  con- 

dirlerent  character,  yet  coold  not  keep  himiclf 


death,  and  Left  onl  Ibe  biiminE  of  bis  Bnrplicc. 
He  H»  mangled  and  metunorpnoaed  the  whole 

Ifr.  Bimard  would  haie  "  pilicnlly  endured 

tnied  on,  Ihji  ftimard  vaa  the  plagiary,  required 

hbownlip*,*'  that  "htnuelfwaarbe  plagiary  both 
of  wont)  and  maner."  The  fact  is,  that  tbii  rr- 
dpincal  accuaation  wai  owing  ra  Barnard  haring 
had  a  prwpcroial  of  He>lin'tpapcn,  which  alter- 


Teptitioui  UK  of  whole  pagea  from  HeyHn'J  woil 


fauin  y    pDT  ewty  me  do=  ■ 
iXffMt.    If  I  bare  been  ■ 


ue  I  loire  plain  tpeaklng,  plain  wntiug.  and 

'trptitl,  and  the  action  imported  \n  it-    EEow- 
:r,  be  la  a  fanciful  man,  and  Iblnka  tlKTe  ia  no 

eleguicr  nor  wit  but  in  hi.  own  way  of  Ulkini. 

r   »..^  ^j   ^  taiij   did,   Uattm   t^vUrm  tndi- 

'eaaofbia  history. 
■■  But  how  hare  1  excerpted  Ui  matter  f    Then 

jur  yeais  together,  before  he  could  bring  forth 


tongas  the  Ptoughman'i  Tale  in  Chaucer,  which 
bills  of  chancery,  eapecially  about  a  ledioui  suit 

ludet  ilrangcly  booked  in,  and  fetched  as  far  aa  Ibe 
aulipodca,"  Barnard  obMTves,  "The  man  hath 
alao  astran^  opinion  of  himself  thai  he  ia  Doctor 

of  SI.  Augualine  (lay  the  achorlfj  was  Pytha- 
gorically  traiufuacd  into  the  corpac  of  Aquinas^ 

know  then;  ia  a  qucftion  in  philosophy,  at  t*mnr 


iy  nxretling  that  p»d 


"  h'"S?'  ** '''"  '''*'  "    '    tia     ■ 

nly  lame  (as  Ibe  >^Dest  bookaclkr  said),  but 


OF  LESOLET  DU  FRESSOY. 


itOiiiwoik  andiDiulharuvcqiullfnina 

illterttnre,    LcD^t  di 
cr  merely  Iiborloni  i 

Jmowkilge,  witb  «  freedom  rerginK  on  cynic! 
cauttcUy,  led  to  the  iranuit  of  uniomman  lovici 
Even  tbc  prefaca  to  the  wotki  which  he  edite 
ue  liaRnuTly  furious,  and  he  hai  uiually  idde 
hibUtlki^tui,   or   critical   cataloguci  of  autbon 


m  faixcitlcil  ireaibe 


the  work  he  hut  then  in 

he  loUt  lordin,  Ihil  ' 


■"liu'm 
poftt  with  tau  grarer  laski 


;itv,  hi>  HKv 
m  preguant  Intcqccllcmii,  his  nng 
and  oFteo  hi»  tlrange  opinioiw,' 


Smay  waietimes  detract  trvm  h»  opibiDEu  \ 
we  may  uk-Ly  admire  the  ii^ennity,  without 
i]uarTvLling  with  the  lincerily  of  the  writer,  who 
hailiiE  campoud  a  work  on  L'tlitft  iti  Ktnmi, 
in  which  he  gaily  Impugned  the  anlbentkily  of 
all  hiitory,  to  prore  himicLf  not  to  have  been  the 
authoe,  ambldcxteTonily  publbbed  another  of 
"  VUulttrt  jaaifii  mill  ill  Ktniani;"  and  per- 
hape  it  wa  not  hii  fault  (hat  the  atlxk  waKpirited, 
—  Ihejiuiifiati—  "  - 


3c  hiatory  of  Uili  work  11  a  itnking  imtaiKe  of 

d  in  the  moit  imporunt  laboun.    Thii  ad- 
LHgra  ip- 


hand  D?  a« 


y9 

led  the  dignitv 

the  lacerating 
le  Bote,  tt  b 
..  theinthot,  he 


wmerly  approved  of  the  work, , 

posied  over  nine  of  theie  obnoi 

n  certain  that  Gro  de  fioze,  in 

the  Jinui  nf  the  aneienn  in  th 

crated  a  high  commendation  of 

Len^t  had,  with  nnuvul  eoorfc  . ,     .  .     .    _ . 

CiDS  de  Vpae ;  for  »  a  criUc  be  »  hhM  pennrhjui 

of  pjneK>Tic,  and  there  It  ahrayi  ■  ciuMic  davoui 

even  in  nil  dropt  of  boncjr,    Thi*  ttnitar  either 


nd  malllated  t^ eanicl).    Thii  »rt  o'f 

culled  hti  nM  apartment  in  the  Baitile  t 

olten,  that  at  tbc  ajght  Of  the  officer  who  wa>  r 

the  habit  uf  eoadacting  him  there,  l^nekl  , 

<uJd  call  Ibv  hn  nightcap  and  inulf;   and  Knlib  > 


ind  at  the  Butilc.  where  I 


affair  he  look  hi<  re 


ly  oifivcling 


l>  to  hi!  frirada,  w)io  eencrally. 
e  of  opinion  that  the  decblon  rii 
mng  a  the  hardihood  iH 


halMfiared  to  cnjot',  his  untertoin  or  hit  perilous 
co^yrighti^  wbeiitheimfgirfcnpyof the  WtfVftoJf, 


':^&^ 

hoiew» 

largely  than 

anothe 

ihed  i 

OP  LESGLET  DU  FRE3N0T. 


by  more  copioui  uticles,  dolEacd  (or  Iheit  ra||«- 

tniulilon  i  like  (rid  ilHmt  It  had  ibvciiufikhrd  with 
n«n  Juica ;  juhL  thu  hit  tAA  work  wu  ilwaji  ud- 
■nw  penonil  chM^icttt  o(  our  ludior  wu  u 
enngedbu  inqulriai  Iheie  wc  might  conclude 

cboiH  i\  ran^in-    But  Len^et  ha  thovm  no 
deficieDcjr  of  judgment  m  tevcral  warki  of  ac- 

I,  hin,  for  the  grulec  put, 

-iriet]'  of  UDComnwn  lopio  be  del^ht) 

inquiry,    Aj  there  ii  «n  usociition  of 
lo  ILtenry  hiMor?  there  ii  jtu  ■vociflion 


m=d  "Tfuge  ^ 


:oglet  du  ft 


d'Agredi,  •bbe»  of  the  nunnery  of  Ibe  Imniic 
tbe  virnn-publuhcd  on  (he  decemie  of  tbe  ibbe 

r'D»  b«l  iutt  ippeved  At  ^tu,  where  It  eicib 
murmuriDf  the  biout^Hod  the  inqxiliiei  of  tl 
cuiioiu.    Tfan  mritlal  life  wn  declared  to  I 

founded    on   .Jjurilior-   — '   — - ■ 

CBced  hy  the  ibboL    ] 


el  proied,  Di  iKrted, 


t,  though  the  i 


Mdiy.t] 


inil  ^the  r 


wiU  be  ^tii^ed  by  the  extniordinuT 

snlainTLUieri,  and  more  adnitljr,  tbvi 
ucited  by  LengLet  in  his  own  wark. 


ineftimabie  muiuil  for  tbe  bIttoFica)  itud^t- 


tbiit  the  lubject  provoked  Lenglet  to  Rtun  Is  hn 

formerly  cam  posed  DO  the  affalrM  Maria  d'Agreda^ 

r/  dapnaliqiu  nir  Ui  ^pparilitni,  itt  FimiU,  tl  Ui 
HMUiiami  paritivlihn,"  in  two  Tolumeii  and 


,:;.s: 


dilion  o[  Ibe  .trttti  d;tnuit 
rbich  'PFwd  in  "  fVngt  in 


t  and  modem. 
Our  Ttvadooi  Abb£  bad  been  bewildered  by  hi* 
delighr  in  ihe  worka  of  a  chemical  philoiopheT : 

inhinory,  yet  It  ii  certain  Ibjl  the  "enndmiTTc" 

bim  mexperlrrKntififbebad  been  rieh  enough  to 
have  been  mined.    It  altered  hit  health  i  and  the 

ippean  la  hare  been  the  inventloD  of  a  lynp,  in 
which  he  bad  great  couMence  i  but  ili  tru]  blew 

reUcred  by  ha»iB|  reeoune  to  a  drug,  aba  of  hv 


hiatoiy  I  and  our  eunouty  nuit  be  ilill  eager 
open  Lenglet*!  "Hinolrc  de  la  rhklnopbie 
mMi^ue,"  accompanied  by  a  ealiiogue  of  the 


K:Kr„"o 


rbe  Dictionnaire  HMorique,  i}go,  in  their 
me>!    hut  tlie    preienl  one   of    Lenglet  du 


ir  Walter  ftawkigh. 


OF  LESQLET  DU  FSESSOY. 


hh  pugnacious  Tindty,  vnd  hiri^  fnnknai, 
woald  wpt  tEuoned  t  piece  of  lutobiomphv  i 
u  uiuMuT  ha.  bowcTcr,  written  it  in  lEe  il^lc 
wbkb  ADAteun  like,  with  4U  the  truth  he  coulff 

the  life  of  Laigkl  with  the  very  ipirit  of  LcDglet; 

not  the  iolpid  vui'WCpTh  of  in  hyperbDlictl  doge- 

Alchou^  Leoglet  du  Prenioy  commcn* 
eulf  life  DiH  cuTtf  u  A  nun  oF  Ictlcn,  he 
line  cngwed  in  the  ffreat  chuc  of  polilicjU . 
tuTVj  BncTionieUriEing facts Brt  recorded, 

H  t^  a  paraphnnical  delicacy  of 
:h  an  Bnglithman  ttiight  nol  nave 


language,  w 


cnin  of  the  Elector  i 

"Me   had    parllcullt 


,  aad  detected  m    , 

I  a  captain,  wiio  astced  lo 


Marlboronijh  was  fo 


be  would  not  engue  in  iti  detectlan,  unloa  the 
miDittcr  proniied  Out  no  blood  ihould  l>e  ihed. 
ThcK  lucceHfuL  incidcnla  in  the  life  of  an 
honourable  ipy  were  rew^irded  with  a  Ti>odcFate 
pnuion—Lenglel  muil  have  been  no  vulgar  in- 
trigucrj  ttewasnotonlypeTpctuallycoDtinedbyhit 


frevdom  of  hi*  pen,  but  I  find  him  early  i 
Boed  in  the  citadel  oFMnburgh  Ibriiii  mc 
it  N  Hid  tor  purloining  ■ooe  curloui  hooki 
the  libnry  of  the  Ahb<>  Bignon,  of  which  h 
the  care.    It  U  certain  that  he  knew  the  ral 

of  bibllognphy  who  trade  at   limei  in 


HoD34eur  I'Abbi  Lenglel  dn  Prcsnoy,"  although 
tlie  dedication  ii  ligned  Q-  P-,  it  wtlilen  by 
Hichault,  of   Dijon,  at  a  prefentation  copy  to 

Mkhanit  H  tlie  wriier  of  two  voLumei  ol  agTRable 
"  Mciaogca  Hutoriqoet,  e(  Philoltfiinua  i"  andttie 
preaent  11  a  tery  curious  ineee  01  literary  hiilory. 
Tbe  DidionBain  KiHOTique  bai  compiled  (he 
article  of  Lengletentirely  from  thiiuotk;  but  the 

titil-o  U  ttim  ti  /■!•(  mi  Itvrr  pnr  tfpmdn  n 

not  d^v  thai  the  MbUography  of  Lcnglct  dn 
Pmnoy  It  at  all  dcKdent  in  curiMity. 


Eugene.  The  prince,  however,  who  auiperted 
the  character  of  our  anlhor,  long  avoided  him. 
Lenglel  iniiniiated  binuelf  into  the  favonr  of  the 

fcmng  the  advice  of  Lcnglct  to  bii  ljbnirisp'<i,  tu 


the  nHHtini-elente  haired.  Une  of  the  mnu  de- 
fatnitory  libcli  b  Lenglet't  Intended  dcillcation  of 
hb  edtlKiB  of  Manil  to  Knuvein,  which  being 
forced  to  inpprea  in  Holland,  by  order  of  the 
Slatei-Ceneral  j  at  SruBclB,  by  the  intenentlon  of 
the  Duke  of  Aremtierg  \  and  by  every  meant  Ihe 

length  lubjoined  by  Leiq^ei  to  Ihe  litii  volume  of 

may  woiuler  at  ita  apocarance,  unconnected  with 
nay  pan  of  the  mrk.  In  Ihii  dedicnlion  nr 
"  elngc  hintorifiue  "  he  often  KhheHn  "  Mon  cher 


waa  then  expatriated  from  Prance  for  a  Ijhe  ac 
ciuation  agamxt  flautin,  in  atlem^ng  to  lix  on 

turbed  Ihe  peace  of  ttie  Htcnry  world  in  Irance, 
and  of  whKh  Rotncaa  waa  gencrJlly  nipposed 

jolemnly  protnled  that  he  wai  giiihlem.  The 
loiit  Jr  paa  b  given  lo  the  poet,  Brelthed  on 

■  poci,  if  poeti  would  be  Icsaned,  who  iii<liilge 

of  political  lervilude  and  political  adrenlure,  in  a 
man  too  intracubie  <br  Ibe  one.  and  too  liter.iiv 
(or  the  other.  Yet  to  the  honour  of  hit  ctpacily,  we 
muil  otnerve   thai  he   might  have  choKn  hit 

Rome;  or  Mom.  Le  BUnc,  the  Prcnch  minitier, 

tion  of  Cenglet  j  and  '"nl  that  momenl  all  thing. 


—  — iDnM  mill  wlihi 

ar  Iherv  «rc  ohfects  eomuntly  pfnenlinE  Ihem- 

Ivo,  which  iun<ii]ltcni7,  tintiKlcal.  H^inonl 
fict>.    My  ftieiMTwritcii "  As  vou  prDcccd  ikhct 

tank  of  Ihe  Siunep  On  ■  tkiping  hilL,  dnvD  to 
Lfae  w*tvr-4ide,  rim  an  AmphilMHrr^  rrownnl 
mlh  u  uckM  CvOtic  aaOt,  in  nnenblc  rain ; 

Ibriti  J«i>H>L  and  Dictionah,  wUch  luur  li 
ilmoHt  an  cncycfopicdta,  to  JArrr  mft  /rut  llimgi  ^ 

hanta  the  £light  at  any  vlilnM  who  Km  con- 


1I>  rndniy  cJoimt  m  place  in   Ibia  v 

"erot.      Bilht  luge  lolloi,  ach  mnislK 
trtoaiand  cLcHply-prtnTed  pago.  ttaM  hk* 


-a  of  TTeivui  not  «Bly  bia  puli 


:f  pront  magnitude  and  vjilne 


ourttt  Rccptidc  with  n 


£.™1 


tiKb  mlta  chUfcIh)  toftctbet 


QUADRiaS  ACCOUNT  OF  ENGLISH  POETKY. 


463 


lib  anient  scholar  bad  haJ  a  lively  quarrel 
biity  yean  before  with  the  first  authors  of  the 
ictionary.  He  had  sent  them  one  thousand 
bice  hundred  articks,  on  condition  that  the 
loBor  should  be  handsomely  thanked  in  the 
leftce  of  the  new  edition,  and  further  receive 

co|»x  en  grand  papin.  They  were  accepted. 
rlc  cooductofs  of  the  new  edition,  in  1731, 
■lat  all  the  promises — nor  thanks,  nor  copy  I 
m  learned  avocat,  who  was  a  little  irritable,  as 
is  nephew  who  wrote  hb  life  acknowledges,  as 
Ma  as  the  aent  work  appeared,  astonished,  like 
tonisy  that '^  they  were  rattling  his  own  thun* 
er,**  wHboat  sayins  a  word,  quits  hb  country 
MVB,  and  ventures,  naif  dead  vrith  sickness  and 
Mfignation,  on  an  expedition  to  Paris,  to  make 
is  com|rfaint  to  the  chancellor ;  and  the  vrork 
w  deemed  of  that  importance  in  the  eye  of 
ofemrocnt,  and  so  zealous  a  contributor  wu 
jnakiercd  to  have  such  an  hooourable  claim,  that 
le  chancellor  ordeied,  first,  that  a  copy  on  large 
iper  should  be  immetUately  delivered  to  Monsieur 
nitoor,  richly  bound  and  firee  of  carriage ;  and 
jcoiidly,  as  a  reparation  of  the  unperformed 
fDcnise,  and  an  acknowledgment  of  gratitude, 
ic  omiasioo  of  thanks  should  be  inwrted  and 
cplaroed  in  the  three  great  literary  joumab  of 
rmce;  a  curious  instance  among  others  of  the 
icncb  government  often  mediating,  when  diflfi- 
ilties  occurred  in  great  literary  unoertakings,  and 
jonderine  not  li^tly  the  claims  and  the  honours 
rmcn  of  letters. 

Another  proof,  indeed,  of  the  same  kind,  con- 
.*ning  the  present  work,  occurred  after  the 
fition  of  175a.  One  Jamet  i'ain^,  who  had 
ith  others  been  usefully  employed  on  thi«  edi* 
on,  addressed  a  proposal  to  government  for 
a  improved  one,  oatol  from  the  Bastile.  He 
roposcd   that   the   go\'emment   shouhl   choose 

learned  person,  accustomed  to  the  labour 
r  the  researches  such  a  work  requires;  and 
e  calculated,  that  if  supplied  with  three  ama- 
uenses,  such  an  editor  would  accomplish  hb 
Mk  in  about  ten  or  twelve  years ;  the  produce  of 
IC  edition  would  soon  repay  all  the  expenses 
Dd  capital  advanced.  Tbb  Uterary  projector 
id  not  wish  to  remain  idle  in  the  Bastile.  Pif- 
xn  yean  afterwards  the  last  improved  edition 
ppcared,  publbhed  by  the  associated  booksellen 
r  Paris. 

As  for  the  work  itself,  it  partakes  of  the  cha- 
uter  of  our  Encyclopasdias ;  but  in  this  rcsp^rt 
:  cannot  be  safely  consulted,  for  widely  has 
cience  enlarged  its  domains  and  corrected  its 
rrors  since  1771.  But  it  is  preciou\  as  a  vast 
oOection  of  ancient  and  modem  leaminjg,  par- 
cnbrly  in  that  sort  of  knowledge  which  we 
sually  term  antiquarian   and    philological.     It 

not  merely  a  grammatical,  scientific,  and  tech- 
ical  dictionary,  but  it  b  replete  widi  divinity,  law, 
wral  philosophy,  critical  and  hbtorical  learning, 
sd  abounds  with  innumerable  miscellaneous 
nrioMtlea.  It  would  be  difficult,  whatever  ma 
e  the  subject  of  inquiry,  to  open  it,  withmit  the 
ratification  of  some  knowledjg^  neither  obvious 
or  trivial.  I  heard  a  man  ofgreat  learning  de« 
are,  that  whenever  he  could  not  recollect  hb 
oowledge  he  opened  Hoffman's  Lexicon  Uni- 
ertaU  H'uttritum,  where  he  was  sure  to  find 


what  he  had  lost.  The  works  are  similar;  and 
valuable  a9  are  the  Germain's  four  folios,  the  eichC 
of  the  Frenchman  mav  safely  he  recommended 
as  their  sulMtitute,  or  their  supplement.  It  bean 
a  peculiar  feature  as  a  Dictionary  of  the  French 
Language,  which  has  liecn  presumptuously  drop- 
ped in  the  Dictionnaire  de  1' Academic ;  that  in- 
vents phrases  to  explain  words,  which  therefore 
have  no  other  authority  than  the  writer  himself  I 
thb  of  Trevoux  is  furnished,  not  only  with  mere 
authorities,  but  also  with  quotations  from  the  clas- 
sical French  writers — an  improvement  which  was 
probably  suggested  by  the  English  Dictionary  of 
Johnson.    One  nation  improves  by  another. 


QUADRIO'S  ACCOUNT  OF   ENGLISH 
POETRY. 

It  b,  perhaps,  somewhat  mortifying  in  our 
literary  researcfies  to  di^ovcr  that  our  own  lite- 
rature has  been  only  known  to  the  other  iiatitmn 
of  Europe  comparatively  within  recent  times.  We 
have  at  length  triumphed  over  our  continental 
rivab  in  thb  noble  struggle  of  gcniui,  and  our 
authon  now  see  their  works  even  printed  at 
foreign  presws,  while  we  are  fumishini;  with  our 
gratuitous  laboun  nearly  the  whole  literature  of 
a  new  empire  :  yet  so  late  as  in  the  reign  of  Anne, 
as  poets  were  only  known  by  the  Latin  vcnificn 
of  the  *'  Musiae  Anglicanat ;"  and  when  fioilcau 
was  told  of  the  public  funeral  of  Dr\-den,  he  wan 
pleased  with  the  national  honoun  liestowed  on 
genius,  but  he  declared  that  he  had  never  heard  of 
nb  name  before.  This  great  legi<(lator  of  Par- 
nassus has  never  alluded  to  one  of  our  own  poetx, 
so  insular  then  was  our  literary  glor>'.  I'he  most 
remarkable  fact,  or  perhaps  assertion,  I  have  met 
with,  of  the  little  knowledge  which  the  continent 
had  of  our  writen,  is  a  French  traivUation  of  Bishop 
HaU's«*Characten  of  Virtues  and  Vices."  It  b  a 
duodecimo,  printed  at  Paris,  of  109  paj^  1610, 
with  thb  title,  Caractiret  de  I'ertus  et  de  Ficet;  tirit 
de  VAnglois  de  M.  Josef  Hall.  In  a  dedication  to 
the  Earl  of  Salisbury,  the  translator  informs  hb 
lordship  that  ce  Irvre  est  la  premikm  traduction 
DX  L'ANOioiijamais  imprimee  en  al'CUn  vulgairk. 
The  fint  translation  from  the  Enclish  ever  printed 
in  any  modem  language  I  Whettier  the  translator 
b  a  bold  liar,  or  an  ignorant  blunderer,  remains  to 
be  ascertained;  at  all  events  it  is  a  humiliating 
demonstration  of  the  small  prog^ress  which  our 
home  literature  had  made  abroad  in  1610 1 

I  come  now  to  notice  a  contemporary  writer, 
professedly  writing  the  hbtory  01  our  Poetry, 
of  which  his  knowledge  shall  open  to  us  as 
we  proceed  with  our  enlightened  and  amateur 
hbtorian. 

Father  Quadrio's  Delia  Sloria  e  delta  ragione 
d'ogni  Poesia, — b  a  gigantic  work,  which  could 
only  have  been  projected  and  persevered  in  by 
some  hypochondriac  monk,  who,  to  get  rid  of  the 
ennui  of  life,  could  discover  no  pleasanter  way 
than  to  bury  himself  alive  in  seven  monstrous 
closely-printed  quartos,  and  every  day  be  com- 
piling something  on  a  subject  which  he  did  not 
undcntand.      Fortunately    for    Father    Quadri*, 


QUADSIO'S  ACCOUNT  OF  ESOLISS  POETRT. 


without  lulc  Is  fed,  mm)  diwcinmenl  to  dccUk, 
riUelcd,  he  hu  heir  built  up  «  receptvle  for 


preicnxd  hi  rruikiucript  in  the  coUcge  of  tbe 
boly  Trinity,  in  CMibiidge, 

InilHh  poel :    he  composed  pocini 
nJhe  Uuib  the  Cimbriini  ind  theii 


enjoyed  eminent  tHbliognpbei 


d  in  hit  thinccnth 


litcnrf  natiDEi  of  every  ipwies  of  Literary  hittory. 
With  \a,  thepvtint  bboiir  of  the  hermit  Anthody, 
for  the  Oiford  wrjun  compiled  bclere  philosoohi- 
-idin  IheuuioniUHlWinoul 
whkh  wu  lefl  onlinMKd  at  lit 
od.  oheo  Ihat  delidufDI  inil- 
-,-.., j7«1  touched  thethn  ■      ■    " 


threiholdc 


mighlre. 


clofoi 


Of  lU  thcK  forelga  luthon  none  ' 
EiousJy  failed  thtn  thii  good  Father 

the  fertite  genius -' ' '  -- 


reoiuie.  But  Utile  «]  our  BrkUio  poetr 
to  in  vniveml  hivtoriui.  In  the  chipler 
who  here  cbitintcd  "  U  TneUc  poem  in  pmpr 
UneiU  tM  TedlKhi,  Flunminghi  t  IKOLUi  "t  » 
find  the  followtng  lifl  of  Bngliih  pocn. 


1,"!^° 


t  iliudne.  TO).  U.  p.  416. 


,fSiSi 


only  Engliih  poetl  who 


■ughl  the  n«mc  of  Sir  AUIp 

"  Rori  poctici  dc  A. 
me  of  Cowley^  pub' 
rhelaidboldoCJohn 

ipiitcd"by''St>  a 

inquiry,  in  bit  loDTth 
Kkin^un,  LdMIIlb- 


.   Sbiketpure  Bi  length  >p 
im,  pethipi,  he  boldly  tra 


ticum  lialli  II  trrfmt  IHribiil  t  ttltndi.    Otway  ia 

*'  m*  elTAtto  ngalm/*    Regulirily  a  the  e^ence 
of  geuiu)  nfth  nich  ctiHn  u  Quidrio.     Dryden 

who  produced*  ■  cluucal  trwedy ;  but  though 
Quadno  writa  much  ■bout  the  Lfe  of  Addivn. 


lut  be  diuinguiihei  them  by  reiyhighcomm 


have  the  It 


ibjccB,  chocwng  fa-  the  »r 


■' POLITICAL  SELIGIOXISM." 


Inuniu 

tx. 

ible.    "Wc  mini  notibi 

Inn  Itcillmitc 

bEgoadordn 

one  or 

out  g«tat  ™mie  gcnlu« 

1  for,  Uludlng 

In  hb  filUi  VDhime,  pige  14^ — "  IL  cdebte  Btrtjat 

Ffutft,  e  in  <]aell  Allri  commedii  inlilolilo  tfimj 
fiia."  Tht  rcKkT  my  dedpbcr  Ihc  pocf  ■  nun, 
and  hit  Fittri  hut  it  miabt  perfaHm  crudry  tbe 
ciilicii  Intuilion  of  the  ibt ' 

comedy  of  Ben  lonien.  which  cin  hudly  lie  si7- 
i««,  or  tht  Silenl  Wonun.    One  wouia  Uke  Id 

he  haik  reul  Ben  Jooun,  whom  h«  11 

Towirdi  the  cloK  of  (he  fifth  rolurae  w 

he  wai  ^  muii  "di  pochiaeinu  TeLi);iDne/'  md 
ipnkc  of  Christ  like  in  Aiiin.  QUAOHia  quotca 
Rimuy  for  Miitort'tvoiniliag forth Abitvon  Ac 
Koman  rhmch.  Hj»  ligum  are  uid  to  heoftcn 
inein,  unworthy  of  the  nujeiiy  of  hi>  lutijict ;  but 
in  1  Uter  place,  encepting  fail  religion,  onr  poet, 

Thus  much  for  the  InfornMIion  the  cnriouf  may 
obtain  on  Bnrclirb  poetry,  fntn  its,  univenal  hiu 

igDonnce  than  prejudice  agunrt  us :  he  has  not 
only  Idghly  dlniaKUisbed  Ihe  comic  j^iuii  of  our 
writers,  andTAisea  It  above  that  of  tnirnelRhhour^ 
but  he  baa  aSao  advanced  another  diacoverv,  which 
ranks  ui  still  hifther  for  onitinal  imtnlfon,  and 


lonHuary  M  the  KngHsh  rrader. 
tUApRio,  who,  anwinit  other  erudite 


n  has  he  placed  param 


w4rh  thi-  lu^1on'ol'puppct-4hoh'9;  but  iD  an  article 
inventiOD  of  MariaMiUa,  h  only  (o  be  cotuideTed 


pEeCerred /or  the  pleasaninc*  which  he  made  (hem 
dcJiter,  The  erudite  QuAnaio  appears  to  have 
more  lucceisfuUy  substantiated  our  daimi  (□  (he 
pulleys  or  wires,  or  apnngs  of  the  pi^ppets.  than 


1  on  thb  very  sul^eicl.    Bui  Quadhio  might 
iH,  the  puny  etforta  ofaU  doll-loving  people  I 


■■  POLITICAL  B 

In  Professor  Dujcald  Slewart's  hr^I  Div 
cm  tbc  progress  of  Philosophy,  1  find  this 

reflect  on  those  contests  for  religion,  ii 
1  particular  faith  his  been  made  the  o 


of  ambitious  men  have  disguised  Iheir  own  pur- 
poaes,  while  Chrhtianily  has  borne  the  odium  of 
iODSening  a  <lcstm>ing  spirit  amonK  mankind  j 
which,  had  rbtiilianlty  ncrer  exined,  would  liii-e 
eiinally  preraiied  In  hDman  alfaln.  nf  a  moral 
malady,  it  b  not  only  ncceiHty  to  know  the 
rkalnre,  hut  to  dcslgrute  it  by  a  right  name,  that 

can  that  iHttiati  which  we  shall  find  for  the  greater 
part  is  ftliilcal.  we  are  likely  id  be  mrilakcn  in  Ihe 

row,  in  hb  "  Acta  and  Monnmcnli."  wriln  Ihe 
irtartyrolo|nr  of  the  Pr^ttiHnti  m  three  miehtv 
folios  J  where,  in  Ihe^lhird.  "  the  tcndn  metcM  " 

mlgbl  not  olberwbc  be  enabled  to 

boTToc.  foi  maje  more  than  or  ^ 
shudder )  and  hii  rolnme,  partlcuLirlv  thU  third. 
chained  to  >  reidiiw-dak  in  the  balls  of  Ihe  Ereal, 
and  in  tbe  abin  otchurcbcs,  often  dctalneil  the 
lollerer,  as  it  fumbbed  some  new  scene  of  pa- 
pistical bomr*  to  paint  forth  on  returning  to  hl^ 


?,.t:rji( 


a  Poa,  which,  be  aa^,  "  has  obtained  [ 


"P-JLTTICAL  RELIGIOSISM: 


n 


SB  UI39  B«i  3jrsrT»*rf 


^•^m  k.. 


i.-=»<.f  yi 


•T  *  -.-T^cn-xi 


I 

I 
.    rr 


5*«r  ^vrri-    K<  ?Ed»  re"  ^ 

l&rtMTrt.CX.    «il     CgMCgV 

"  ■T2i:«irce*  '    ^  t2<  ciin:^  :  lic  tier  ' 
r<5:'>  '   :f  tie  k^s^jactrik     Tiie  »wrri 
r.T  'TJ.rc^ .  :'TJBP»."TT-  **c~j«Be.  ?*-3«irr : 
~  —•.•??  r»  -r^tf  TrtX*!  -■•:"  E^iac=r«a  h^  pctrrvd 
•t-  wiar-  •"ti  =  T=<  *7*w-?  s  ^mr  ]inr^  t^ia  ^-' 
'rer*  »e*<i  -r  tie  rf-  Wir»  :t  Y.f*  i=c  Ladcj 
"s  >-.:r  csrrrir<»    * 

rf^;*  "  crsit  i=«i  cx>c  3x*.~  t^  Purttaa»  and 
zrx  fr^wer  ir^. "  -  i"s  pLftcri  laiccf  the  ^r- 
/r-ftaf-.  .  '    w*:.e    r^«--    r*:re    »    Kjeoae«i   rato 

ti-c  ?*-.';r<ir:  Vi;  t^'K  «u,^vwr:.>  p-rrtesst^  ind 
tt-j:  ".i;«r  —  •  'r— j-.--  ••«.•  r.eeaif\i  :■.»  ^e  rcrLTTr<\i. 
T*:«v  *rjr^c  t>.e  :— pirer::  E.:^l^eth.  l^^i  her 
xriicr.:  c-.-'cr-rer:  :  iri  ^-♦f^jtsvl  m::h  :h<  '.ex-neJ 

rrT"  1.  f'tf*.  r^j:  rt;e  fc*«t..'nn  n.iv  Mii^h  or 
vr- e  »S»  r-.i*  :■'  rcccni  them.  AtkI  wber  the 
F^^  :^t  »A*:r!n'%fcr  out  *»  pnrferrr.ert,  m^i^eveiled 
ir*'«  Hf7a-it>'r,  he  ^irnexi  irr?  a  ?*r**yrf.  Non- 
vvr-^'r-T'ty  «x»  tr.eir  ,ijr.-.nj;  »jc,  -inu  thtir  lullcn 

0*-«^-.  ':r.  •"'"-  piT.'uI  rclurne*.  chronicles 
the  h.'.v^LOv  r:  irTk -'.•.■,\;>  of  the  two  tbouMnd 
>!len»:tfd  ir.d  e-^^vTcJ  rr.nL-«tcr*.  Their  hr«tor»-  b 
not  ijlor.v  ■-«,  ir.i  tlie;r  hcrec*  are  obscure  ;  but 
It  ■«  1  vk-me>::c  tile  '  >*"hen  the  Kcond  Charies 
1*1*  rrstrrc\l,  the  P^tJ^rciatj,  like  every  other 
tioticn,  were  to  he  imused.  if  not  courted.  Some 
of  the  ksntc'*  chipliin»  were  aeiected  from  among 
them,  mU  preached  ooce.  Their  hopes  were 
ra:«ed  thit  they  should,  by  some  agreement,  be 
eniMed  to  »hire  in  th^t  ecclefiasncal  establish- 
ment which  they  hid  so  often  opposed  ;  and  the 
bi-'tiop*  met  the  Presbyters  in  a  convocation  at  the 
S.i»oy.  A  conference  was  held  between  the  k^gh 
church,  resuming  the  seat  of  power,  and  the  /«i'  '• 
chu'cH,  now  prtwtrite;  thai  is,  between  the  cU\ 
cUt)^  who  hid  recently  been  mercilessly  ejected  i 
by  the  nen;  who  in  their  turn  were  awaiting  their  i 
fate.  The  conference  was  closed  with  arguments ! 
by  the  weiker,  and  votes  by  the  stronccr.  Many 
curious  anecdotes  of  this  conference  nave  come 
down  to  us.  The  Presbyterians  in  their  last 
struggle,  petitioned  for  tmlutgtnce :  but  oppressors 
whohid  become  petitioners,  only  showed  that 
they  possessed  ao  longer  the  meant  of  reststance. 
Tbts  conference  was  followed  up  by  the  jfct  ^f 
Untfomutyf  which  took  pUceon  Bartholomew  day. 
Angust  u.  i66a :  an  act  which  ejected  Calamy's 


KbdC    two  tboasuMl 


mtnisren  from  the  bosom  of  the 
cxablobed  church.  Bartholomew  dajr  with  tiu 
party  was  long  paralleled,  and  perhaps  is  till,  with 
dx  dreadfol  French  maMacre  of  that  tatal  saints 
day.  Tbe  calamity  was  rather,  howem,  of  a 
prrrate  than  of  a  public  nature.  Tbe  two  thoii> 
saod  ejected  ministers  were  indeed  depdred  of 
TfaeiT  bvingi ;  but  this  wan,  however,  a  bjfpier 
fate  than  what  has  often  occurred  to  these  cootob 
for  tbe  aecohtv  of  political  power.  This  ^jtetm 
not  like  tbe  expulsion  of  the  Morwcoei,  the 
best  and  moKt  useful  subjects  of  Spain,  whidi  wa 
a  hunuB  ^acrihce  of  half  a  million  of  men,  and  the 
yr^MHiptitm  of  many  Jews  from  that  land  of 
CatboacWn  ;  or  the  massacre  of  thousands  of  Ha* 
paenots,  and  tbe  enpnlskm  9(  more  than  a  hondRd 
thousand  by  Loub  the  Fourteenth  from  France. 
The  Presbyterian  divines  were  not  driven  froia 
tfacir  tebef-land,  and  compelled  to  learn  another 
lan^ruge  than  their  mother>tongoe.  Destitate  m 
dirinea,  tbcy  were  sotiered  to  nrmatn  as  dtiteos ; 
and  tbe  ronlt  was  remarkable.  Tlicse  dirinei 
amid  not  disrobe  themselves  of  their  learaing  and 
thetr  piety,  while  several  of  them  were  compeUed 
to  beconaie  tradesmen  ;  among  these  the  leaned 
Samnri  ChaiHller,  whose  literary  productions  ait 
very  numerous,  kept  a  bookseller's  shop  m  the 
Poultry. 

Hard  as  this  event  proved  in  its  result,  it  wu, 
howoer.  pleaded,  that  "  It  was  but  like  for  like." 
And  that  tbe  history  of  "  tbe  like "  might  not 
be  curtailed  in  the  telling,  oppoMcd  to  Calamyi 
chrvnurle  of  the  two  thousarul  ejected  ministen 
stands  another,  m  folio  magnitude,  of  the  same 
«*rt  of  chronicle  of  the  clergy  of  the  church  of 
En«ctand,  with  a  title  by  no  means  less  pathetic. 

This  IS  Walker's  "  .\Rempt  towards  reco*eriB« 
an  account  ot  the  Clergy  of  the  Church  of  England 
»ho  were  sequestered,  harassed,  &c.  in  tbe  late 
Times."  Wa  lkcr  is  himself  astonuhed  at  the  site 
of  his  volume,  the  number  of  his  sufferen,  and 
the  rariety  of  the  sutfierings.  "  Shall  the  cborcb," 
saj-s  he,  ""  not  have  the  liberty  to  preserre  the 
history  of  her  sufferings,  as  well  as  the  separttm 
to  set  forth  an  account  of  their?  >  Can  Dr.  Calamf 
be  acquitted  for  publishing  the  bistori'  of  the 
Bj'thommru'  suffrmt,  if  I  am  condemned  for 
writing  that  of  the  seqtujttred  Uyalisuf"  He 
alAtws  that  "  the  number  of  the  ejected  amounti 
to  two  thousand,"  and  there  were  no  les  than 
"  seven  or  eight  thousand  of  the  episcopal  clergjr 
imprisoned,  banished,  and  sent  a  starving,"  Sec.  Sec. 

\l*hetber  the  reformed  were  martyred  by  tbe 
Catholics,  or  the  Catholics  executed  by  tbe  re* 
formed ;  whether  the  Puritans  expelled  those  of 
the  established  church,  or  the  established  chorch 
gected  the  Puritans,  all  seenu  reducible  to  two 
clasKs,  Conformists  and  Nonconformists^  or,  in 
the  political  stvle,  the  administration  and  the 
opposition.  W^en  we  discover  that  the  head*  of 
all  parties  are  of  the  same  hot  temperament,  and 
observe  the  same  evil  conduct  in  similar  situa- 
tions; when  we  view  honest  old  Latimer  with 
his  own  hands  hanging  a  mendicant  friar  on  a 
tree,  and  the  go\'cmment  chaneitig,  the  frian 
binding  Latimer  to  the  stake ;  when  we  see  tbe 
French  Catholics  cutting  out  tbe  tongues  of  the 
Protestants,  that  they  might  no  longer  protest; 
the  haughty  Luther  writing  submissive  apologies 


"POLITICAL  SELIQIOmSiir 


X  Tenth  ind  HmiTihe  RIgfatb  for  th( 
vlHi  which  he  bid  tmled  Ibtm  In  hk 


the  hjDghhF,  John   Kncu.   vhen 


iiomlCwIen 


who  profs  to  be  ffunei 


,).  >  hnm. 


1h  the  Relbnned  of  the  Low  Cc 


themcDihalJ  be  bdieideil)  ind  the  women  burird 

tnilh  ii,  that  Ibe  Spuiiih  gorcmmcnl  ^cuiilered 

admittoIheii^IiarclUieuhip.  Thi  unaii^iWil 
hctapnonitiDMeodlclllaUie^llortheenipcTOr, 

beawe  be  n 

that  he  h»d  committn!  ■  peit  fiull  in  peimilli 
Luther  to  return  free  on  the  faith  of  hu  ufe  cr 


■trong,  which  I  un  convinced  might  hare  been 
itlfledwilh  him  ia  m  birth.'-*  -Hie  whole  con - 
duel  of  Chirlea  the  Fifth  In  Ihii  mlghrr  nvnlutinn, 

nriau purely pJuicuJ.  mnclitheRrHobKned, 
tbit  (be  empmr^  ui^r  the  eohnr  of  retlfllon, 
was  plKlng  hlmielf  il  the  held  of  a  league  to 


with   the  ' 


the  German  princet;  and  be  paiii 


■nte'i  CriUcal  HiiloiT  ol  the  InquUtMn. 
1^  Conndtntkna  ftlitlqueiip.  iij.  Bee 
note  |q  Kim^  \m  of  GdiHtim  Aitok- 


U'S'-I.S 


eren  reccntlr,  hn  found  idiocitai  a  Oreek 
proteBnr  at  the  time  utened  thai  ihetv  were  i^v* 
elaiiii  of  ProMftann  in  France,  paliticil  and  re- 
ligioui  1  and  that  "  the  late  ebnllllinn  of  public 
vengeance  wai  loidy  directed  inlnM  the  former." 
Dt.  M'Ciie  mnins  lh=  Catholic  with  a  CalholiCi 


equal  violence  of  Peler  Charpenticr  and  Sti, 
M'Cite. 

Thia  nhject  of  "Political  Keligiooinn"  a  m- 
dad  u  nice  a>  il  ii  a  cunouiDnci  foJifiuhiTc 

(ign,  Ihal  Ibe  piiliei  IbtmaclTciwill  nerer  be  able 

etenia,  and  the  ume  penou.    When  pubhc  d»- 

rcjlotalion  of  Ibe  Bouibans,  the  ProIeitanN,  who 
there  are  nomeroM,  declared  dul  thej'  weie  per- 
■ccuted  for  religion,  and  Iheir  crv  reaourbdcd  by 
their  tvrethrea  the  diaaenleti,  in  Ihu  country.  We 
hare  nol  Ior)[oneo  the  letmenl  it  rilaed  here; 

mlniiter  however  penttted  In  d«laring  that  it  wu 

the  Bonapartim.  we  heard  no  more  of  thme  tan- 
at  which  a  diavnter  hai  juit  puhiiahcd  a  large 


The  eleganciet  of  Plechier  were  loon  neglected  hv 
the  public,  and  Ifae  deep  inlereui  of  trulh  looii 
acquired,  and  ttiU  retain,  lor  the  leia  elegant  writer, 

A  modem  hlitorian  haa  obaerved.  that  "the 

iriditputabic,  bur  the  cause  Ii  not  »  apparent. 
Gunavua  Adolpbui,  the  paH  military  Rcnlui  of  bis 
age,  had  defigned.and  waanjccesafully  artempIlnE, 
la  oppoac  the  orerKiowii  power  of  the  imperial 
beoae  of  Aoitna,  long  uming  at  an  uuiveraal 

ThUip  IV.  wtakly  hinni  at  to  Ibe  world  when  be 
placed  thii  motto  under  hb  armi— "Jnu  ifn 


TOLEIATION. 

AHrnliKhtcDcd  tnltntion  iit  blmin^or  the  lot 

WB  inculcued  ttm  by  Mihemet,  in  i  pun 
Bic  Karin,  but  Kircdy  ptKtnol  by  hn  faUo 

France,    It  lequired  ■  lopf;  time  tvTdn  itt  d 

from  bong  clea,  rilhrr  to  the  rolcrwin,  d 

|[  doei  nnl  appnr  Ihit  the  jmcrpts  or  th»  jrnr- 

Hag  ol  any  to  be  Chriniinii*  vet  in  cipRvion 
rmploycd  in  Ihe  nurtiiJ  pitj^le  nf  the  gnil 
mff.  *hen  the  hospilihir  iord  commMidrf  rhe 
KTVint,  IJDdlng  Ihil  tie  hid  >1iU  rwni  to  u»m- 
mnAmmm  gntrtt, " lo gn oul  In  Ibc  U^in,i 
wd  ntagci,  uui  Hinftl  itm  n  ««  *■  ihii  mt 
»™«  may  ttJUUd,"  mi  lUcircd  u  m  inlhonty  by 
dioK  CaihiiUca.  wbo  nlM  ihtimdm  ~tbr  -— 


publidied  undir  the  nipp«illllauii  niim  erf  an 
SMiliOmtn,  u  pcinud  ai  Cmterburf  in  liM,  but 
tcalty  at  Anulerdani.  II  »  curiniu  thll  Ldckc 
pabLlshed  his  fint  letter  on  "Tolcnlicm  "  In  Latin 

third  <n  1691.     Bayle  opened  Ihe  mind  or  Locke, 

indicates  (be  pnidriice  it  vai  deenied  ueceaurj  10 

The«e  were  the  litM  f  Magical  aneniBta ;  bnt 
the  eacUen  idiocua  for  TDlmlian  imy  be  found 
anHHu  ibereJinlcnii  nnitniveniiillili  of  i  preceding 
period;  it  wmpiohiblifitjrted  anionic  the  IniiAllie 


10  doubt  eiamlDcd  all  tbe« 
of  c^nioni  i>  nnxinB  ibe 
:  and  I  luapKi  ihu  Baylc 


CTiption  of  hit  book  td  ■■  Hiiflul,. 


nitcd 


"!:?!li'':r^. 


diand,  and  a 


D  Ibe 


""o'ly  o*  fetfl'  ref^igeesj  It  condoned  imliiny 

itownim,  Ouakeij-  meetingii,  ^tinch  chnnhc^ 
ind  Jcwnh  ■j-mitattuci.ind  n»d  It  been  required) 
Mahnmeun  moiqnes  in  Aimtenlim,  veic  '*- 
^recuntft  of  Iti  mart  and  Itt  nebanse;  Ibe 

V  tbenudiei,  Ihey  Ured  without  mnlual  pen 
ton,  and  raited  In^ethet  u  good  Dnithmen. 

The  elcommunicated  pin  of  Europe  Ketned  n 
w  Uie  moK  enligblcDed,  and  il  m  then  comi^ 
11  a  pniof  pf  the  adoiiratale  progmn  of  the  bu 
nind,  that  Loru  and  Claiii  and  KitnoN  ci 
ponded  with  Liiinite,  and  olhcn  of  ihc  lea 

phili»phen,«bo  differed  in  Iheirrf^ijiauaaia 
■>"Mld  cominunictic  unong  IheraaelTei  *it 


I  10  other.  Ihe  toletaiian'thei  panic! 
In  common,  -me  Infancv  of  a  panyii  ac 
»nied  by  a  poJuicil  ii-takneai,  wkich  dkub 


a,  pleaded  foe  Ihe  doctrine 
si  power.   The  BiM  oC  o 

bop  Hall,  who  had 'pleaded  II 


r  independence  among  othcn.    when  II 
-"■■'-in, maintained;  he  mumphed  Intheimi 


for  John  Goodwin,  the  chaplain  of  Oliver  Croni- 
'""'  ■'"'^'''''''*^  "*  "f  h"  obiciue  polemical 
vho  al  Ihal  criui  did  nnl  renlun  to  piehi  their 
name>  to  pleai  In  favour  of  Talenlion,  h  deticaTe 
and  HI  obtcure  did  thijinhject  tben  appearl  In 
l&Ji,  they  Itandatol  Ihe  liberal  treaUae  of  Onitius 

under  Ihe  lllleof  "The  aotharlly  of  the  higher 
pDwen  iboul  ucred  Ihinp,"  London,  Bro.  lAji, 

retormen,  be  It  recorded,  Ibat  be  dlqileiaed  both 


TOLERATIOS.                                                   ^f-t 

pmlatlMting  dlyof  Gencv.;  but  (be  book  be 

nilion  he  hid  no  limger  idopled  i  md  in  Ihu  cik 

disunt.  inwng  >  majority  of  Cilholki.  wheneier 

«k'ed"lbr''^er'^'!  to"^SSe"inM^i^i    til 

s£'™;.  a"^^  '"'"^ "  ■''^  " ""  '"'''''"■'  '^ 

wat  len  one  maming  wilboul  an  army  >    When  ' 

■nred  that "  It  waa  hot  icaftddiiig :  (hey  intend   i 

dl^u  ^"euiO[^  ba  depcn^^™  UlKn  tbe 

to  build  aintber  bouic;   and  when  thai  bouK 

KnimentofiWpmicipilil^ofNiufch«cl,»i»hin« 

(Jopej)  ■«  bnU(.  Ihey  wiU  lake  down  (he  Kif- 

to  ilJow  llbcny  o(  wniciciKC  to  ill  Iheir  luhjccls, 

When  Probylerr  «»  out  lord,  they  who  hid 

iniiltd  tMh  wniB  to  voK  "fot  or  >|tlin>t  rbe 

endured  (be  loRurci  of  peneciilion,  and  railed  ) 

■dopllon  of  iJiB  KW  worship  1   tn<l  m  ill  the 

■uch  ihaip  oulcrfei  for  freedom,  of  all  men,  were  ' 

pinihei  ««pt   two.  the   m^jcnii/  of  lulfngn 

the  mou  inlolefin( ;  hardly  had  Ihev  tiued  of  tbe 

Circean  cup  oF  dominion,  ere  they  were  trim-  ' 

(omwd  inlD  the  moK  bideou  or  (he  moit  Rio-  1 

hid  ilu  uKinbled  1  and  fOnnInK  id  m-cn  number, 

then  hippcned  la  be  m  «iiulilir  of  nMa  tot  lad 
>Biii>HilKehu«eoftel>gk)D.    A  thcphcid  being 

iB«nt,  lendmg  ihe  fl«l..  on  Ihe  hi[li.  they  ium- 

moned  h.m  to  ippeir  ind  decide  lhi>  Mnponint 

TSey  adi-ociled  the  rigbB  of  perjeemion,  ind 
"Shillow  Bdwinb."  ai  Milton  call)  the  author  of  i 

i|ueition;  when.hiinni:  no  liking  to  inDaTilion. 

he  Kive  hit  luiie  in  favour  of  the  eiiRlni  form  o1 

"Tlie  Gangricna,"  puhliihed   a  IrealiK  agmu 

M  »  It  'ihi>  di]',  m  Ibc  bent  Df  Ihe  mtoUnt 

ItJiralltti.    They  who  had  »  long  compluned  of  1 

"  die  lieenaen,"  now  KDt  aU  Ihe  booki  the;  con- 

1 proceed  to  lome  (tcU,  which  I  hiTe  imogcd 
lot  Ak  bHiory  of  Tolerilion.    In  tbe  memran  of 

demned  to  penal  hr™.     Prvnne  now  vinficited 

(he  veiT  dochinn  under  which  he  himielf  had  lo 

severely  auflered;   a>uming  Ihe  highen  po«ible 

"  The  Declintion'for  Liberty  of  Conjcienci,"  Ihe 

of  death,  on  iu  (nponend.    rrtnne  loit  all  feeling 
lor  the  ein  of  othen  1 

lonnher  i  he  xcuiei "  rhe  leilniKir  of  our  Oein, 

like  meebinUi  m  ■  trade,  who  in  ■(nid  of  no- 

too long  1  period  in  the  annali  of  Europe:   no 

thing  »  much  u  inleilnpen— they  bad  Iherefon 

pirtiv.  probably  could  conceive  .he  idea  of  loleri- 

imiuced  iDdiHcren  penom  to  imigine  Ihil  Ihelr 

HDD  in  IbeitTugElefarpmlomiiunce.  Ho  treatin 
are  proflercd  when  conqueit   ii   the   cancelled 

oruoiii  that  a  choreb,  which  dues  not  pretend  lo  be 
mblUble,  abuuld  conarain  peiwm,  under  heiry 

orer  Dimenlen  and  Cithalia ,  u  i-eet  wu  do- 

J  J)  J— "The  maaijcit  of  (be  Huguenoti "— pn.™ 

miniou,  that  tbe  ireTy  thoushl  oF  othen  participat- 

ing in  Ihot  freedtmi  made  tbem  deny  tbe  very 

doclrlDe  (hey  preached."  The  chief  argumenl  Ihe 

at  a  lo«  how  lo  decide  on  a  point  ol  the  mm.nt 

imponance  to  France.    In  ijj)  they  tint  lieRin  to 

hum  the  Lutheran)  or  Cili  iniili,  and  to  cut  out 

the  tonguet  of  all  ProteUinti, "  that  they  mii^ht  no 

■heir  powrr  to  lentedv,  lor  that  no  man  eould 
force  hiimcir  Id  beUere  what  be  naUy  did  not 
believe.* 

longer  prolHt."    According  to  Piiber  Paul.  Hfty 

•  Thii  wai  a  Baron  WiUop.  Fnjm  Dr.  H.  Simp- 

Such  wu  the  rational  language  of  the  mon 

■on-i  ManuKTipl  Diarr. 

bitioted  of  lealDU!— TIk  ton  cm  bleit  like  Ihe 

t  II 11  cunoui  to  obKn-e  Ihit  the  Citholio  were 

they  weien  willing  to  9wn  there  were  any  medili 

Boie  of  tbia  king^  privale  pipen,  which  Kill 

medalh  howereT,bare  become  etcewirely  icaKe  [ 

tbe  mou  bigoud  prieita.with  (he  wildett  ptojecti. 

Hut  co|»ei  inferior  to  the  onginila  have  been  nM. 

and  moU  Infitnaled  propheciea  and  di^mii.  of 

(hat   jBuil-led   monarch   retained   (lie    Engliita 

panied  by  luulting  infcriptionj,  which  laiier  the)- 
ure  eflaced,  lomelimci  very   imiKrifrttlv.      See 

■  Lite  of  Jama  the  SecDDd  Irein  hiiowo  paoen. 

li.  114. 

procure  (hem. 

TOLERATION. 


d  how  ii  happnicd»  Out    xbc    moR 

ib«l  wtthdcub.ilonl)  '     -       '  *    - 


th«  ititc,  1o  put 


ijiTt>'n  pnidimd  pnvdirtQ-  M 
■>~<H<uu,  uc  lOiiknl  mund  Ihe  gicil  lield  ol 
inun  anion  in  Ibc  hMory  of  ibc  pat ;  Ibcrc  be 
ctncKil  Uul  tht  RosuiunR  moK  cnligtatcaed 
Ihdr  ifliant  Chan  wc  i  tblt  TTUUI  comnunflcd 

mid  IhciT  conduct  ccicUngcf 
•in   ilUgal  uimUiiii    tEit 

of  the  chn«i»iB,  mho  then  imigineii  tliii  they 

tt  done  by  paiccutioiu. 

in  15&0.     Amidit  perpkxiliei  of  lUte  iiece*dty» 

itltraiati  hul  aol  entered  into 'the  liewi  of  the 
lUtenTun.  n  wn  ton  At  Ihii  time  Ihit  He  SAioctel, 
■  giet  contnvenial  vriler,  declared,  that  had  the 
tim  JighHd  fur  Ihe  dntruction  of  Cilviniiin  not 
beeneii^pgnished,thc tecthadnot i^readt  About 

waa  perhapi  the  lint  great  mind  who  appeanto 


after  tbny  vcan  piMi]      

Hate  th^  no  rear.aftcr  the  Ion  of  the  NetherlaiHb, 

, — I  "--rthal  ftanik  obniiiacy  whirh  nirlud 

grieve  that 

with  a  rigour 

wu  the  Language  of  Thuanu%  in  a  letter  written 

lalrraiitHt  but  which,  at  a  term,  wai  not  pTababl]r 

as  to  nuny  itlempti  at  lolerilion,  tliejErcat  national 

^andt  i  and  the  mltiganng  protataMBm  of  Laud, 
to  appnninule  10  the  ceremooiet  uf  the  Roman 


.  ckted.  diriding 
■ubhpurianBl    The  r<^« 


them 


ended  in  placing  the  altar  eastward,  and  in  raising 
.1 ^_ij  .__  -t_  . %irand  the  hierarchy. 

sanity     They  were  pieiaifig  for  conformity  to 


the  tcalfbld  for  the 

do  that  wbich 
could  onlr  be  d 


Pope.     ■*  while  the  poatcTitv  of  Abnli 
that  mighly  anil   artful  irfomier,  "  wi 


jHU»nv^>M,Ilxyin 


than    tm   fnu-u  I.   o  •n-l,  i-ei 
it  would  have  been  /«Ju*n. 

HiK,  when  kmoledge  had  b 
cancel  the  hand  by  which  the)  hoi 

hiilDry  of  tnirTiuitn  Is  the  acute  ten 

tolenle  them,  but  not  that  they  wll 
The  ttmh  H,  that  TouaaTiusr  w 
noite  of  the  parties  1  and  1  will  1 


Free  and  Candid  Dia<]iUtitiDn.*'  by  the  RereirTuI 
rhomai  Alkn,  Rector  of  Kettering  Northampton' 
ihirc.  HoMfrereatrae^ianl  hit  doctrine  appeaii 
io  ui.  1  tuspect  that  it  eahibiti  Ihe  conctaleil 
lenlinenti  of  even  tome  Protettant  churchmen  I 
niiarrclor  of  KeRering  alEnbvIea  tbe  froiH-Ih  nl 
idiitmt  to  the  nfgUri^tt  of  the  clergy,  and  teem 
to  have  penccuted  bolh  Ihe  atthbiihapi,  ■<  In  hh 
jetfimeni,"  at  he  tella  us,  with  tingular  plana  ot 
retbnn  borrowed  from  motiastic  InttitiiiiDni.  H< 
iriihed  to  revive  the  practice  loeulcatedbyacanoi] 
if  the  council  of  Laodicea.  of  having  prayeri  4 

in  the  churchet.    But  hit  grand  pngect  take  in 


TOLERATIOS. 


who,  hcdccLirct,thauld  be  punned  by  iwor 

cm  off  ta  prctcrvc  the  body  lound.    Urtt  Jff* — 


Dukt  D'Alva  ADd^hJLipII.,  (rom  which  (hey  ha 
hardly  recovered.    II  wu  i  pnnciple  by  vbiehw 

taA\y   cmbumacd   when   rtfulcd  bj  TfacDdoi 


whufU^i^harAJtr  ttieraiitn.  I  look  my  icbcine 

Uk  juthoriiy  of  Ihe  ci«U  iTugutnte  wei  tbc 

religion  ii  HKitfd ;  ihi  mUiUtfi  i*i  liuwirvtninuii 

pleuled'in  beblir  of  lOnl}  ^jnuirna  an:  lully 

lidered)  Ibc  king  would  know  bu  power  and  the 
p«i^e  their  duly." 

by  the  utire  of  Macrell.     Thia  ^lUcal  ipmUK. 

piinclpta  wen  »  •lolent,  that  Falher  rctre,  ibc 
Thilkllerof  Ihert 


ring,  in  dopUng 


eipreaa  bia  o^nioni  in  the  dark  hifCory  of  the 
coT^omte  (heir  puatoiu  m  (heir  works,  and  liew 


«  wert  forced  to  excLude  Ihe  Papisn, 


inlTDducIion,  Ibough  ih 


"  which  tber  are  not  tikeir  net  ' 
Itaey;  DuinUin  (hdr  principlea  of  p 


putedmoch  how  fiilhey  might 


aulbortty  kgilimaK." 

obtaining  a  political  aKendcncy, 
When  PmciUUn  ind  ail  of  bii  (oUowe 

that  the  three  penou  of  Ihe  Tiinity  wen 

hciDg,  ft^ot  Ambroae  and  Saint  Minin  i 


*  Simandl.  Hin.  dc>  Pnaciii.  ■-  *'■    The  c 
'   "■■  "  S^tl  ftrttn  who   introduced   <J 


473 


APOLOGY  FOR  THE  PARISIAN  MASSACRE. 


In  the  prcoedinj;  article,  "  Political  Religionism," 
we  have  shown  now  to  provide  against  the  pos- 
sible evil  of  the  toUrated  becoming  the  tolerators .' 
Toleration  has,  indeed,  been  suspected  of  indif- 
ference to  Religion  itself;  but  with  sound  minds, 
it  is  only  an  indiflference  to  the  logomachies  of 
theolog)'— things  "  not  of  God,  but  of  man,"  that 
>K<ve  perished,  and  that  are  perishing  around  us  I 


APOLOGY  FOR  THE  PARISIAN  MASSACRE. 

An  original  document  now  lying  before  me,  the 
autograph  letter  of  Charles  the  Ninth,  will  prove, 
that  that  unparalleled  massacre,  called  by  the 
world  religious^  was,  in  the  French  cabinet,  con- 
sidered merely  as  political ;  one  of  those  re^'olting 
state  expedients  which  a  pretended  instant  neces- 
sity has  too  often  inflicted  on  that  part  of  a  nation 
which,  like  the  under-current,  subterraneously 
works  its  way,  and  runs  counter  to  the  great 
stream,  till  that  critical  moment  arrives  when  one 
or  the  other  must  cease. 

The  massacre  of  Saint  Bartholomew  day,  in 
August,  IST2,  lasted  in  France  during  seven  days  : 
that  awful  event  interrupted  the  correspondence 
of  our  court  with  that  of  France.  A  long  silence 
ensued  ;  the  one  did  not  dare  to  tell  the  tale  which 
the  other  could  not  listen  to.  But  sovereigns 
know  how  to  convert  a  mere  domestic  event  into 
a  political  expedient.  Charles  the  Ninth,  on  the 
birth  of  a  daughter,  sent  over  an  ambassador  extra- 
ordinary to  request  Elizabeth  to  stand  as  sponsor : 
by  this  the  French  monarch  obtained  a  double 
purpose  ;  it  served  to  renew  his  interrupted  inter- 
course with  the  silent  Queen,  and  alarmed  the 
French  Protestants  by  abating  their  hopes,  which 
long  rested  on  the  aid  of  the  Enelish  queen. 

The  following  letter,  dated  8th  Februar>-,  1573, 
is  addressed  by  the  king  to  La  Motte  Fenelon,  his 
resident  ambassador  at  London.  The  king  in  this 
letter  minutely  details  a  confidential  intercourse 
with  his  mother,  Catharine  de  Medicis,  who,  per- 
haps, may  have  dictated  this  letter  to  the  secre- 
tary, although  signed  by  the  king  with  his  own 
hand.*  Such  minute  particulars  could  only  have 
been  known  to  herself.  The  Earl  of  tyolcfuster 
C\^'orcester)  was  now  taking  his  departure,  having 
come  to  Paris  on  the  baptism  of  the  princess; 
and  accompanied  by  Walsingham,  our  resident 
ambassador,  after  taking  leave  of  Charles,  had  the 
following  interview  with  Catharine  de  Medicis.   An 

described  by  SulpicTus  Severus.  See  Dr.  Maclaine's 
note  in  his  translation  of  Mosheim's  Ecclesiastical 
History,  vol.  i.  428. 

*  All  the  numerous  letters  which  I  have  seen  of 
Charles  the  Ninth,  now  in  the  possession  of  Mr. 
Murray,  are  carefully  signed  by  himself,  and  I  have 
also  observed  postscripts  written  with  his  own  hand  : 
they  arc  always  countersigned  by  his  secretary.  I 
mention  this  circumstance,  because  in  the  Dic- 
tionnaire  Historique,  it  is  said  that  Charles,  who 
died  young,  was  so  given  up  to  the  amusements  of 
his  age,  that  he  would  not  even  sign  his  despatches, 
and  introduced  the  custom  of  secretaries  signing 
for  the  king.  This  voluminous  correspondence 
shows  the  falsitv  of  this  statement.  History  is  too 
often  composed  of  talcs  of  this  stamp. 


interview  with  the  young  monarch  wai  usually  con- 
cluded by  a  separate  audience  with  hb  mother, 
who  probabl  V  was  still  the  directress  of  bis  conncils. 

The  French  court  now  renewed  their  faToarite 
project  of  marrying  the  Duke  D'Alen^on  with 
Elizabeth.  They  had  long  wished  to  settle  this 
turbulent  spirit,  and  the  negotiation  with  Eliza- 
beth had  been  broken  off  in  consequence  of  the 
massacre  at  Paris.  They  were  somewhat  uneasy 
lest  he  should  share  the  fate  of  hb  brother,  the 
Duke  of  Anjou,  who  had  not  long  before  b^» 
expedited  on  the  same  fruitless  errand.;  and  Eli- 
zabeth had  already  objected  to  the  di^Nuity  of 
their  ages,  the  Dukeof  Alen^n  being  only  seven- 
teen, and  the  maiden  queen  six-and-thirty ;  but 
Catharine  observed,  that  D'Alen^on  was  only  one 
year  younger  than  his  brother,  agunst  whom  thb 
objection  had  not  occurred  to  Elizabeth,  fto*  be 
had  been  sent  back  upon  another  pretext — some 
difficulty  which  the  queen  had  contrived  abcnit 
his  performing  mass  in  his  own  house. 

After  Catharine  de  Medicb  had  assured  the  Eari 
of  Worcester  of  her  great  affection  for  the  Queen 
of  England,  and  her  and  the  king's  strict  intention 
to  preserve  it,  and  that  they  were  therefore  de- 
sirous of  this  proposed  marriage  taking  place,  she 
took  this  opportunity  of  inquiring  of  the  Raxi  of 
Worcester  the  cause  of  the  queen  hb  mistress's 
marked  coolness  totvards  them.  The  narrative 
becomes  now  dramatic. 

"  On  this  Walsingham,  who  kept  always  dose 
by  the  side  of  the  count,  here  took  on  himself  to 
answer,  acknowledging  that  the  said  count  had 
indeed  been  charged  to  speak  on  this  head ;  and 
he  then  addressed  some  words  in  English  to 
Worcester.  And  afterwards  the  count  gave  to 
my  lady  and  mother  to  understand,  that  the  queen 
his  mistress  had  been  waiting  for  an  answer  on 
two  articles ;  the  one  concerning  religion,  and  the 
other  for  an  interview.  My  lady  and  mother 
instantly  replied,  that  she  had  never  heard  any 
articles  mentioned,  on  which  she  would  not  have 
immediately  satisfied  the  Sieur  Walsingham,  who 
then  took  up  the  word;  first  obser>-ing  that  the 
count  was  not  accustomed  to  business  of  thu  na- 
ture, but  that  he  himself  knew  for  certain  that  the 
cause  of  this  negotiation  for  marriage  not  being 
more  advanced  was  really  these  two  unsettled 
points  :  that  his  mistress  still  wished  that  the  point 
of  religion  should  be  cleared  up ;  for  that  they 
concluded  in  England  that  this  business  was 
designed  only  to  amuse  and  never  to  be  completed 
(as  happened  in  that  of  my  brother  the  Duke  of 
Anjou)  ;  and  the  other  point  concerned  the 
interval  between  my  brother  the  Duke  of 
Alen^on ;  because  some  letters,  which  may  havx 
been  written  between  the  parties*  in  such  sort  of 
matters,  could  not  have  the  same  force  which  the 
sight  and  presence  of  both  the  persons  would 
undoubtedly  have.  But,  he  added,  another  thing, 
v/hich  had  also  greatly  retarded  this  business,  ^'os 

•  These  Un/e-letters  of  Alenfon  to  our  Elizabeth 
are  noticed  by  Camden,  who  observes,  that  the 
queen  became  wearied  by  receiving  so  many,  and 
to  put  an  end  to  this  trouble,  she  consented  that 
the  young  duke  should  come  over,  conditionally 
that  he  should  not  be  offended  if  her  suitor  should 
return  home  suitless. 


I»- 


I'l    imlit  n'Ttmitiit^HmiMUa^^^ia^ 


'lit   ■■■■>■ 


APOLOGY  FOR  THK  PARISIAN  MASSACRE, 


475 


Kvhat  had  happtmd  lately  in  th'u  kingdom ;  and 
during  such  troubles,  proceeding  from  religion,  it 
could  not  have  been  well  timed  to  have  spoken 
with  them  concerning  the  said  marriage  ;  and  that 
himself  and  those  of  nis  nation  had  l^n  in  great 
fear  in  this  kingdom,  thinking  that  we  intended  to 
extirpate  all  those  of  the  said  religion.    On  this, 
my  lady  and  mother  answered  him  instantly,  and 
in  order ;  That  she  was  certain  that  the  <jueen  his 
mistress  could  never  like  nor  value  a  prmce  who 
had  not  his  religion  at  heart ;  and  whoever  would 
desire  to  have  this  otherwise,  would  be  depriving 
him  of  what  we  hold  dearest  in  this  world ;  That 
he  might  recollect  that  my  brother  had  always  in- 
sisted on  the  freedom  of  religion,  and  that  it  was 
from  the  difficulty  of  its  public  exercise,  which 
he  always  insisted  on,  which  had  broken  off  this 
negotiation :  the  Duke  d'Alen^on  will  be  satisfied 
when  this  point  is  agreed  on,  and  will  hasten  over 
to  the  queen,  persuaded  that  she  will  not  occasion 
him  the  pain  and  the  shame  of  passing  over  the 
seas  without  happily  terminating  this  affair.    In 
regard  to  v/hat  has  occurred  thest  latter  days,  that 
he  must  have  seen  how  it  happened  by  the  fault 
of  the  chiefs  of  those  who  remained  here;  for 
when  the  late  admiral  was  treacherously  wounded 
at  Notre  Dame,  he  knew  the  affliction  it  threw  us 
into  (fearful  that  it  might  have  occasioned  great 
troubles  in  this  kingdom),  and  the  diligence  we 
U!ied  to  verify  judicially  whence  it  proceeded  ;  and 
the  verification  was  nearly  finished,  when  they 
were  so  forgetful,  as  to  raise  a  conspiracy,   to 
attempt  the  lives  of  myself,  my  lady  and  mother, 
and  my  brothers,  and  endanger  the  whole  state ; 
which  was  the  cause,  that  to  avoid  this,  I  was 
compelled,  to  my  very  great  regret,  to  permit  what 
had  happened  in  this  city ;   but  as  he  had  wit- 
nessed, I  gave  orders  to  stop,  as  soon  as  possible, 
this  fury  of  the  people,  and  place  every  one  in 
repose.    On  this,  the  Sieur  Walsingham  replied  to 
my  lady  and  mother,  that  the  exercise  of  the  said 
rel^on  had  been  interdicted  in  this  kingdom.  To 
which  she  also  answered,  that  this  had  not  been 
done  but  for  a  good  and  holy  purpose ;  namely, 
that  the  fury  of  the  Catholic  people  might  the 
sooner  be  allayed,  who  else  had  been  reminded  of 
the  past  calamities,  and  would  again  have  been  let 
loose  against  those  of  the  said   religion,  had  they 
continued  to  preach  in  this  kingdom.  Also  should 
these  once  more  fix  on  any  chiefs,  which  I  will 
prevent  as  much  as  possible,  giving  him  clearly 
and  pointedly  to  understand,    that  «vbat  is  done 
here  is  much  the  same  as  what  has  been  done, 
anfl  is  now  practised  by  the  queen  his  mistress  in 
her  kinf^dom.    For  she  permits  the  exercise  but  of 
one  religion,  although  there  are  many  of  her 
people    who  are  of  another;    and  having  also, 
during  her  reign,  punished  those  of  her  subjects 
whom  she  found  seditious  and  rebellious.    It  is 
true  this  haa  been  done  by  the  laws,  but  I  indeed 
could  not  act  in  the  same  manner;  for  finding 
myself  in  such  imminent  peril,  anci  the  conspiracy 
raised  against  me  and  mine,  and  my  kingdom, 
ready  to  be  executed ;  I  had  no  time  to  arraign 
and  try  in  open  justice  as  much  as  I  wbhed,  but 
was  constrained,  to  my  very  great  regret,  to  strike 
the  blow  (lascher  la  main)  in  what  has  been  done 
in  this  city." 
This  letter  of  Charles  the  Ninth,  however,  does 


not  here  conclude.  '*  My  lady  and  mother " 
plainly  acquaints  the  Earl  of  Worcester  and  Sir 
Francis  Walsingham  that  her  son  had  never  in' 
terfered  between  their  mistress  and  her  subjects, 
and  in  return  expects  the  same  favour ;  although, 
by  accounts  they  had  received  from  England, 
many  ships  were  arming  to  assist  their  rebels  at 
Rochelle.  '*  Mv  lady  and  mother "  advances 
another  step,  ancI  declares  that  Elizabeth  bv  treaty 
is  bound  to  assist  her  son  against  his  reDelllous 
subjects ;  and  they  expect,  at  least,  that  Elizabeth 
will  not  only  stop  these  armaments  in  all  her  ports, 
but  exemplarily  punish  the  offenders.  I  resume 
the  letter. 

"  And  on  hearing  this,  the  s»d  Walsingham 
changed  colour,  and  appeared  somewhat  asto- 
nished, as  my  lady  and  mother  well  perceived  by 
his  face ;  and  on  this,  he  requested  uie  Count  of 
Worcester  to  mention  the  order  which  he  knew 
the  nueen  his  mistress  had  issued  to  prevent  these 
people  from  assisting  those  of  La  Rochelle;  but 
that  in  England,  so  numerous  were  the  seamen 
and  others  who  gained  their  livelihood  by  mari- 
time af^irs,  and  who  would  starve  without  the 
entire  freedom  of  the  seas,  that  it  was  impossible 
to  interdict  them." 

Charles  the  Ninth  encloses  the  copy  of  a  letter 
he  had  received  from  London,  in  piart  agreeing 
with  an  account  the  ambassador  hid  sent  to  the 
king,  of  an  English  expedition  nearly  ready  to  sadl 
for  La  Rochelle,  to  assist  his  rebellious  subjects. 
He  is  still  further  alarmed,  that  Elizabeth  foments 
the  -wartegeuXf  and  assists  underhand  the  discon- 
tented. He  urges  the  ambassador  to  hasten  to  the 
queen,  to  impart  these  complaints  in  the  most 
friendly  way,  as  he  knows  the  ambassador  can  well 
do,  and  as,  no  doubt,  Walsingham  will  have 
already  prepared  her  to  receive.  Charles  entreats 
Elizabeth  to  prove  her  good  faith  by  deeds  and 
not  by  words;  to  act  openly  on  a  point  which 
admits  of  no  dissimularion.  .  The  best  proof  of 
her  friendship  will  be  the  marriajge :  and  the  am- 
bassador, after  opening  this  business  to  her  chief 
ministers,  who  the  king  thinks  are  desirous  of  this 
projected  marriage,  is  then  "  to  acquaint  the 
aueen  with  what  has  passed  between  her  ambassa- 
dors and  myself." 

Such  is  the  first  letter  on  English  affairs  which 
Charles  the  Ninth  despatched  to  his  ambassador, 
after  an  awful  silence  of  six  months,  during  which 
time  La  Motte  Fenelon  was  not  admitted  into  the 
presence  of  Elizabeth.  The  apology  for  the  mas- 
sacre of  St.  Bartholomew  comes  from  the  king 
himself,  and  contains  several  remarkable  expres- 
sions, which  are  at  least  divested  of  that  style  of 
bigotry  and  exultation  we  might  have  expected  : 
on  the  contrary,  this  san^inary  and  inconsiderate 
young  monarch,  as  he  is  represented,  writes  in  a 
subdued  and  sorrowing  tone,  lamenting  his  hard 
necessity,  regretting  he  could  not  have  recourse  to 
the  laws,  and  appealing  to  others  for  his  efforts  to 
check  the  fury  of  the  people,  which  he  himself 
had  let  loose.  Catharine  de  Medicis,  who  had 
governed  him  from  the  tender  age  of  eleven  years, 
when  he  ascended  the  throne,  might  unquestion- 
ably have  persuaded  him  that  a  conspiracy  was  on 
the  point  of  explosion.     Charles  the  Ninth  died 

Soung,  and  his  character  is  unfavourably  viewed 
y  the  historians.    In  tbt  voluminous  correspond- 


9  \ 


PREDICTIOS. 


pcHup*  a  third  migfac  be  added,  en  i 


aippeneil  thM  ■  1 


thM  I  tolenble  phUo»pbcr  bu  nol 


;  ind  men  dT  a  pldloaD|tbit 


ffkirfirU  flfarn 


jCTCit  event  hb  been  icfompidlcd 

DT  progqatiic  bat  been  obaerred  by 

"'Toe  ihcpbcrdi  of  tbe   people 


Dnnny ,  i 


In  ibli  spirit  ofrdiaight out  cflutenpUiinu 
luiry  Dugdalc  muit  htvc  Anticipated  tbe  ta 

dnichui 
in  of  t 


.-..^ —   _jder  "Ihe   Dehniet  «(  ttw 

ulb,"  vu  in  ■  matt  Aeuriihiaii  ititr.  tbe  uncr 

Truth  it  ifiiDn  Rupetl  ind  yet  1  pnr  Oodifut 

gladiv  be  tt  Leigue  and  compuiiion  with  hcmicmp 
to  let  Ihem  haie  thelt  chorth™  quicili  lo  ihetn- 

have  oun  quietly  to  ouncliv."  U'bcthei  our 
creat  duoceilnr  predicted  from  a  more  intimate 

reearded  Cor  our  infonnatniii  of  which  J  hare  an 
ofatcuR  tuipicion,  nnniiui  to  be  aicertiiBed.  Tbe 
miniU  of  men  of  great  political  Hgacilr  vne  uit- 
queitionibljr  al  that  tnomeixt  full  of  obacnre  iodi- 
cationi  of  the   apprOAChing  change:    FraMnin, 

obeerrintf  it  loaded  with  a  raiT  prnfiuion  of  ie*eli, 

poor,  and  that  the  fhrine  had  been  opiy  adotned 

who  have  heaped  up  all  thii  malt  of  treatore  viU 

ire  in  power;" — a   prediction    iilcrally  fulfilled 

who  wToK  in  the  reign  of  Edward  the  Tbiid, 
aurprifed  the  world  by  a  fjmoui  prediction  of  rk 

The  eTcnt  waa  reaiiaed  (wo  hundred  yein  after* 
wirda.  h)'  our  Henry  the  Eighth.     The  PrMotanl 


PREDICTTON. 


Mni/f  tnd  fiwn  thirocr  igim  Lnto  ibeJLrM/  «i^ 

ind  cburt h^vcmmcuMcn  to  iwtuAf d  ^  D^i«n 
■od  oicn'i  bDcin,  uhI  «  ihu^  imii  ti  xaii^tn 
tpnng  up  u  Ibere  irc  urkih'Cburcha  wrlUiin  lag- 
Uad."    Wc  tre  Rnyk  bj  tbe  pfnfouTid  geniiu  of 

■a  long  TAviged  Europe  <h  the  CkJI  of  the  Rofii*o 

empire^  in  ■  vnrk  vnnen  five  bundjcd  yean 
before  Ibe  e<>ent  I    In  Ibat  tubUme  tntidpitioB  of 

--'       tbeRomiDKluH 

ilTia  wbich  Ihey 
n  btppcQ  t    TIk 


revolled  pv>pt/Ct  ftred  fnrai  thr  ,.  - 

will  hot  be  ■bJclDHibvit  without  dcKroylna  their 

cruel  WHi  wiir  eiiU 


conquered,  wh«l 

itt»Xe'la>ub> 
cigfaboun,  mi  the  it 


itir  igcd  monirch.    He  predicted,  tlul  tince  thejr 

living,  what  vould  (hey  do  when  he  ihould  be  no 
more  I  A  meUnchDly  pirdiction,  uyi  J>e  Foil, of 
their  kubKqucnt  incumoru,  titd  of  the  protntted 
Cllunitia  0<  the  French  utinn  duhng  •  whole 


■oiiK.  ciccTo  ipHAli  lo  Artlcut  how  he  bad 
llwAvt  judged  of  the  tSun  oT  the  Republic  u  a 
gncxl  diiincTi    ind  that  ill  oveithraw  bvl  hip- 


cordiH  to  the  1 

he  philov^ker,  li 
nit  DOT  TtokHkary 


honcMly  tclk 
u  thli  irt  hwl  ban  uqnliTd  awTeljr  by  aBdr^ 


"On  Ode  tide  1  conidcT  thebuAounndgcniuaof 
nui&ner  of  civil  wflri,"«  In  A  wordj  Ibe  pnlitickl 
diviocT  fbiviDld  evcnti  by  their  dependence  on 
gencT^  clkuKI,  while  the  moni  divincT,  by  hii 
experience  of  the  perwmat  chtrKter,  anticipated 

cDiiow  ud  DbKure°fuulir,  and  ■""time  when 
the  hiitDry  of  Ihe  human  mind  wi.»  imperfectly 
ctxnprebended.  It  li  eaty  to  account  for  the 
■pparoil  esotum  of'  tbia  grave  »nd  dignified 
cbanctet.  ■' ftora."Iayi  he,^' with  canitilulional 
IntiTmity,  a  mind  and  body  but  ill  adapted  to  be 

eiercin  •  lagKlty  »  gTcat.  Ihit  I  do  not  know. 


.a 


that  admitted  but  Utile  Ume  lor  deliba 
botrwurr  ^fAf/Hjvrr  Iroin  theput.*' 


wn,  preliied  lo  hit  worki.  It 


vere  no  prophet,  yet  la  that  faculty  w 


CDtlfeition  1  find  in  Menage'! 
aiV  la  LiDgue  Fran^oiae,  Pirl  IT. 

1  Oinia  yds  frH«i.    «■■  im    rpwcKv    Jc 
■vr^p  «vNv,  avT*  iirg^al^g,  rwr  H  va^jif<tM«  « 


Htnclpls  IMX  t 
knowledge  o(  hi 


tublcrfogq  pnctised  by  tl 


deuiLlng  the  virioui  tublerfoiEq . .  . 

prelnided  ilivinn»  of  hii  diy,  he  Tircih  Ihe 

frhulfU  by  which  one  of  them  regutated  Ui 
pndictiDn.  He  Innklj'  dccUnd  ihai  ihe  ruTDU 
being  alvAyt  very  DbKiirCi  vhile  the  fast  wu 


prlncLpIc  bv  which  i  philoiophicil  hittonu  nu] 
bvcame  *  tkiirul  dinner. 

Qui  of  DPe  UHKhcr,  vilh  vjight  vuutiotU;  iiu 
thin  LI  b  Uur  axy  amalty  happen  as  Ihey  hart 
happened-    The  neceflaiy  dependence  of  eftco 

tivc  panLlcb  with  the  put.  The  phiLoMphic 
tage  of  holy  writ  truly  deduced  the  impoitani 

deadened  k^  the  touch  of  chronoJogicaL  antr 
qiurianiim,  arc  reslored  to  animatiom  when  w< 
comprehend  the  principlei  which  nece«arij> 
tennlnale  in  certain    reiuLt*,  and   diKoi'cr  the 


Ihe  time  and  the  place  only  have  changed ;  for 
eiTU  when  eienti  alTE  not  ■nic%  paialld,  we 
detect  the  ume  conducting  princlplea.     Scipio 

hit  curioui  diKouiriei  on  Taciliu,  inteirminglea 
ancient  exampiei  with  the  modem ;  thai^  he  layi, 

by  the  changn  and  divenitiei  of  time-    Machiavel 

tcntion  to  a  limilar  eipentful  period  id  our  own 
hiitoiy,  the  negiecled  eohimea  which  preferred 

Fim  and  Cromwell  wxre  cnnected  with  eager 
U9  In  tbev   for^lvn  pags.     8ul  aa  the  annah 


niu[e,  that  ia  the  vario 
only  lepiDduced.    Anw 


Is  io  iSoi.     Thii  "Society  i 


I  apponleiy  detciibed,  li 


ther-     Compare  the  blltOTy 


ieUague"in 


I'EjpigDe;"  and  ihiifamoui  "Saliie  Menippie' 
ia  perfect  Hudihras  in  proieT    The  writer  dfc^ 


iinpubiiihed 
Jib  ptlDciple. 


divulged  by   Amtotle,  and   deacnbed    hy 
a  man  of  geniuj  airiong  oonelves.    when  Mr. 

-,  _  track  ol  liijht,  not  icvealed  to  ordinary 
jaumalinv I  on  the  Napoleoruc  empire-  **  Of  that 
despotism  in  pasqtKrade"  he  decided  b)'  *'tbc 
•tale  of  Kome  bnder  Ibe  tim  Cman  i~  und  of  the 

ynish  American  TCTOIution^  by  taking  Ibe  war 
the  United  hT>vinces  with  HiLlip  II-  »  the 
Jwork Df  the eoBipaiison-  "On  every  great 
cnce,"  he  laysi  "  I  endeavoured  lo  discoter, 

:d  it.     ]  procured  the  contemporary  hra- 
i,  memoriallaI(»  and   pamphleleen.      Then 
fairly  subtracting  the  poinb  of  dffpfntr  frotn  tkiove 


PREDICTION. 


™ 

iBB,  It  might  h.ve  b«n 
It  Bid  b«ii  written  will 

.rsj 

wd  Ibal  the 

lul  Iwelvt 

morn  prcdlctiMii  on  ituUrMuU 

tbe  lUUn  tioliliciui,  tRct  iu  pcniul,  predicted 

turtnlni  inriB  of  Ih.  .g»  1  The  f.U 

pua 

„_,     , ,  pcice  tnkei  pUti,    . 

go  ind  plant  cabbua  in  thjr  ftirdrD.Dlticrwiw  I 
nun  Ibec,  tbou  trill  Ion  thy  hud  on  i  KUloUl  I" 
Lmcaio  de'  MeiUd  had  itudkd  the  Krnper  of  hb 
•onneroi  farOuiceiinllniinlonni  lu,  thathehid 
idea  complained  Is  hii  matt  intimate  (fieiidi,  that 
i  »._* A_  i^»„j^»»..>j,rTog^mceof  bis 


ia  1  remaikibJe  prnllclii 

of  the  etib  likely  to  cnaUE  innn  iiauirn  ¥ivicQn» 

king  held  with  ArcSbijhop  williami,'  When  tbe 
king  wu  hard  presaed  to  pronwle  Ljtud»  be  nvc 
his  reovni  why  he  intended  id  "  keep  Laud  back 
from  lU  place  of  rule  and  aulbority,  because  1  tiiwl 

m-Ken.  .te  well,  but  ui'a  to  to.  and  change, 

Siting  It  hi  oiTb^in'  which  "iirfaSj^ralhe 

kinK'a  good-nature  (oo  &uUy  yielded :  he 


n  thetimoof  Chaitiathe  Rut.    And  the 

light  be  a  history  of  the  ReformatiDn  bcR>rc  it 
ccarred,  the  n-idence  could  not  be  more  attiben- 
e  and  positive  than  that  of  the  great  moTil  and 
olitlcal  Tci-olutiDn  which  we  hare  witnessed  in 

I  ■  sermon  before  the  House  of  Lords.  In  1741. 
oes  honour  to  his  polllicml  ugacity.  as  well  as 
>hiakDowledKeof  fauntannaturti  he  calculated 


e  obaeivcd.  "  that  jlII  this  may  raise  HnnewhJ 
ke  'Adf  UvtOing  tpirit,  upon  athelilical  pnr 

Ihualulic  ones'  Hottotpcak  of  the  po^hibt 
thai  dtfittnturli^titpU  mav  tmiu  in  it  upo 
ly  priiHlfltl!"     AJI  this  literally  hi 


bnd,  pointing  to  Cromwell.  '*will  1 
person  in  Ibe  kingdom,  if  tbe  lutioi 
blowil"  And  Ar^t^op  WiUiams  I 
the  First  conltdenllilly.  that  "Then 


and  wished  his  majeity  would  either  win  bin 
to  bim.  or  gel  him  taken  off."  The  Marq 
Wellesley-s  Incomparable  chaticfei  of  Bonaparte 
predicted  biifall  when  highest  in  his  cloryi  that 
ffreal  ilateiman  then  poured  forlh  the  sublime 
unguage  o(  philosophical  prophecy.  "  Hij  eager- 
ness of  power  is  so  inordinite;  bis  jeilousy  aliii- 


*  BiQcraphla  Lit 
ofmySietarvLir, 
Tldge,  esf).  I  Bo]. 


Ilrlry  frmtlpUl!"     All  this  literally 

DinpliAedl    Leibnitt,  indeed,  foteww  ._. 

mils  of  those  sclAih  and  n  length  demorsliiing 

1  hit  day.    These  disorganising  principles,  con- 

un  they  could  be,"  aa  old  Montaigne  expresses 

gnlulated  as  "  having  a  lailt  for  evil ;"  eihiblted 
10  the  astonished  world  tbe  disirul  cAtxstrophe  the 
philosopher  predicted.  I  shall  ^ve  this  remark- 
-^'-  tiasage.  "  I  iind  Ibal  certain  opinions,  ap- 
ching  those  of  eplcnrua  and  spiaosa.  are, 


public  good,  and  Ihe  larea  of  posterity,  to  fortune 
BDglisb  caU  them,  eieesively  dimmish,  and  are 

principle,  which  Itaey  call  Ik 
which  only  keeps  them  from  ih 


PSEDICTIOS. 


gnpnl  ax  the  n 
der  wilt  hirdlf  Rqnirc  jt  rmnnK 


the  pRdictioQ  liu  bvcn  rcrlllcd  in  the  tnrtorj  of 

wbkta  wc  tuvF  not  pcrtiipt  yet  hid,  ucDrdinK  to 
LcibDits'l  own  »hilarAtiPgivilcmoroptiniiiin,  ii 

ligiunl  rivi  in  bia  own  (imn,  tu  bcm  nolLCcd 


pincy  u  ictiuUy  fonnintc  in  Kurapv,  by  mun*  aI 


wvnclgu  of  Euiflpe  wcir  very  lud  tpcctxlei 

eTCTweTCiOfaconipirvy-"  GDibcnunquoiion' 
blyEbnaaw  the  Anli-moonchicaJ  vpiTit  gathcnnK 

but  conldiMiiiiiditc  otthe  lutuRor  the  impuls 
which  he  predicted  ;  prapheiyinf:  from  Ibe  idci 


or  the  people,  a  tiTtuouv  le* 


Encnl  pnncipie.  For  inUoa.  tD  that  IblktaB 
idpition  which  RDunaalDRncdflf  dicPKQcS 
olDtinn,  he  added,  brwayoT  mta.  M  mimfc. 

•ouiHi  fiM  Ui  K"nHii  tttiurtlaa  dt  ttmnf 

I  tiMi  ftij  bfiik  tit  mr  mn  tUtIm,    The  |in- 

^   lentkon  ■ccmi  to  haften  on  the  accomplinhBiem 

imevi  found  fact*  which  efficiently  proKd 
f  niliDoa  tn  the  hrighr  of  their  nkndoQT  and 
Tuption  hid  ckned  their  career  by  lallrng  ap 

^i  the  mwt  potiidicd  people  at  a  lini^  T^w ; 
now  find  that  no  iorh  power  any  loager  C3dita 


icf,  a  phiirMopher  mifrhl  aaFrli 


I,  printed  In  15J*.  in  wUch  I 
It  the  TDftidi 


would  not  laM  mqny  }'ean ;  that  after  tbe 


doth  o(  Chart*.  Ihe  Ji , __, 

torn  to  piece*  hy  the  Oermani  them- 
bii  monk   wilt   no  iDnBrr   t>^    ^    a 
prppbd  i  be  bclongt  to  that  clas  oit  hiMoriau  who 
__^ , .... '  -"--i,likeaceitilB 


e  u  pmtpcT  tbc 

■hat  in  the  ftcM  of 

Kivad   firfitteiiBn,   Tcteran    vagacitv  hia   often 
n  deceived.^'    Sir  Janrn  atlnded  to  the  me- 
campke  of  HaTrins^on,  who  pnbhtbed  a 

-'-  '- ■--*  -• ontb«  before  the 

B 

rcneucal  phncif^  which  be 
le  bal«ic«  of  power  dqodi 


PREDICTION. 


479 


on  tlut  of  property/'  Harrineton,  in  this  con- 
tracted riew  of  human  nature,  bad  dropped  out  of 
hh  calculation  all  the  stirring  passions  of  ambition 
and  party,  and  the  vacillations  of  the  multitude. 
A  similar  error  of  a  great,  genius  occurs  in  Dc  Foe. 
"  Child,"  says  Mr.  George  Chalmers,  "  foreseeing 
from  experience  that  men's  conduct  must  finally 
be  dectded  by  their  principles^  foretold  the  colo- 
nial revolt.  Dc  Foe,  allowing  his  prejudices  to 
obscure  his  8aga.ity,  reprobated  that  suggestion, 
because  he  deemed  interest  a  more  strenuous 
prompter  than  enthusiasm."  The  predictions  of 
Harrington  and  De  Foe  are  precisely  such  as  we 
might  expect  from  a  petty  calculator — a  political 
economii^  who  can  see  nothing  farther  than  im- 
mediate results ;  but  the  true  philosophical  pre- 
dictor was  Child,  who  had  read  the  past.  It  is 
probable  that  the  American  emancipation  from 
the  mother  country  of  England  was  foreseen, 
twenty  or  thirty  year^  before  it  occurred,  though 
not  perhaps  by  tHe  administration.  Lord  Orford, 
writing  in  1754  under  the  ministry  of  the  Duke  of 
Newcastle,  blames  "  The  instructions  to  the  gover- 
nor of  New  York,  which  seemed  better  calculated 
for  the  latitude  of  Mexico,  and  lor  a  Spanish 
tribunal,  than  for  a  free  British  settlement,  and  in 
such  opulence  and  such  haughtiness,  that  sus- 
picions had  long  been  conceived  ij  their  meditating 
to  throve  off  the  dependence  on  their  mother  country." 
If  this  was  written  at  the  time,  as  the  author 
asserts,  it  is  a  very  remarkable  passage,  observes 
the  noble  editor  of  his  memoirs.  The  prognostics 
or  presages  of  this  revolution,  it  may  now  be 
difficult  to  recover ;  but  it  is  evident  that  Child, 
before  the  time  when  Lord  Orford  wrote  this 
passage,  predicted  the  separation  on  true  and 
philowphical  principles. 

Even  when  the  event  does  not  always  justify 
the  prediction,  the  predictor  may  not  have  been 
the  less  correct  in  his  principles  of  divination. 
7^e  catastrophe  of  human  life,  and  the  turn  of 
great  events,  often  prove  accidental.  Marshal 
Biron,  whom  we  have  noticed,  might  have  as- 
cended the  throne  instead  of  the  scaflFold ;  Crom- 
well and  De  Retz  might  have  become  only  the 
favourite  general,  or  the  minister  of  their  sove- 
reigns. Fortuitous  events  are  not  comprehended 
in  the  reach  of  human  prescience  ;  such  must  be 
consigned  to  those  vulgar  superstitions  which  pre- 
sume to  discover  the  issue  of  human  events,  with- 
out pretending  to  any  human  knowledge.  There 
is  nothing  supernatural  in  the  prescience  of  the 
philosopher. 

Sometimes  predictions  hat'e  been  condemned  as 
false  ones,  which,  when  scrutinised,  we  can 
scarcely  deem  to  have  failed  :  they  may  have  been 
accomplished,  and  thev  may  ajpin  revolve  on  us. 
In  1749  Dr.  Hartlev  published  his"  Observations  on 
Man ;"  and  precficted  the  fall  of  the  existing 
go\'emments  and  hierarchies  in  two  simple  pro- 
positions ;  among  others — 

Prop.  81.  It  is  probable  that  all  the  civil  go- 
vernments will  be  overturned. 

Prop.  8a.  It  Is  probable  that  the  present  forms 
of  church-gov^'^ment  will  be  dissolved. 

Many  were  alarmed  at  these  predicted  falls  of 
church  and  state.  Lady  Charlctte  Wentworth  asked 
Hartley  when  these  terrible  things  would  happen  > 
The  fio^wer  pf  (be  prefi|ctpr  WM  POt  km  awftU  ; 


"  I  am  an  old  man,  and  shall  not  live  to  see  *bem ; 
but  you  are  a  young  wontan,  and  probably  will 
see  them."  In  the  subsequent  revolutions  of 
America  and  of  France,  and  perhaps  now  of  Spain, 
we  can  hardly  deny  that  these*  predictions  had 
failed.  A  fortuitous'  event  has  once  more  thrown 
back  Europe  into  its  old  comers;  but  we  still 
revolve  in  a  circle,  and  what  is  now  dark  and 
remote  may  again  come  round,  when  time  has; 
performed  its  great  cycle.  There  was  a  prophe- 
tical passage  in  Hooker's  Bccleaiastical  Polity,  re- 
garding the  church,  which  long  occupied  the 
speculations  of  its  expounders.  Hooker  indeed 
seemed  to  have  done  what  no  predictor  of  human 
et'ents  should  do;  he  fixed  on  the  period  of  its 
accomplishment.  In  1597,  he  declared  that  it 
would  *' peradi-enture  fall  out  to  be  threescore 
and  ten  years,  or  if  strength  do  awe,  into  four- 
score." Tliose  who  had  outlived  the  revolution 
in  1641,  when  the  long  pariiament  pulled  down 
the  ecclesiastical  establishment,  and  sold  the  church 
lands, — a  circumstance  which  Hooker  had  con- 
templated— ^and  were  afterwards  returned  to  their 
places  on  the  Restoration,  imagined  that  the  pre- 
diction had  not  yet  been  completed,  and  were 
looking  with  great  anxiety  towaixia  the  year  1677, 
for  the  dose  of  thb  extraordinary  prediction  I 
When  Bishop  Barfow,  in  1675,  was  consult«l  on 
it,  he  endeavoured  to  dissipate  the  panic,  by  re- 
ferring to  an  old  historian,  who  had  reproached 
our  nation  for  their  proneness  to  prophecies  I 
The  prediction  of  the  venerable  Hooker  m  truth 
had  been  fully  accomplished,  and  the  event  had 
occurred  without  Bishop  Bartow  having  recurred 
to  it ;  so  easy  it  seems  to  forget  what  we  dislike 
to  remember!  The  period  m  time  was  too  li- 
terally taken ;  and  seems  to  have  been  only  the 
figurative  expression  of  man's  age  in  scriptural 
language,  which  Hooker  had  employed ;  but  00 
one  will  «iow  deny  that  this  prescient  sage  had 
profoundly  foreseen  the  results  of  that  rising  party, 
whose  deaignis  on  church  and  state  were  deaity 
depicted  in  nis  own  luminous  view. 

The  philosophical  predictor  in  foretelling  a 
crisis,  from  the  appearances  of  things  will  not 
rashly  assign  the  period  of  time;  for  the  criab 
whicti  he  anticipates  is  calculated  on  by  that 
inevitable  nurch  of  events  which  generate  each 
other  in  human  aAurs;  but  the  period  u  always 
dubious,  being  either  retarded  or  accelerated  by 
circumstances,  of  a  nature  incapable  of  entering 
into  this  moral  arithmetic.  It  is  probable,  that  a 
revolution,  similar  to  that  of  Prance,  would  have 
occurred  in  this  country,  had  it  not  been  counter- 
acted by  the  genius  of  Pitt.  In  1618,  it  was  tuy 
to  foretell,  bv  the  political  progn<»tics,  that  a 
mighty  war  tnroughout  Europe  must  necessarily 
occur.  At  that  moment,  observes  Bayle,  the 
house  of  Austria  aimed  at  an  universal  monarchy ; 
the  consequent  domineering  spirit  of  the  ministers 
of  the  emperor  and  the  king  of  Spain,  combined 
with  their  determination  to  exterminate  the  new 
religions,  excited  a  reaction  to  this  imperial  des- 
potism ;  public  opinion  had  been  suppressed,  till 
every  people  grew  impatieiit ;  while  their  sove> 
reigns,  influenced  by  national  feeling,  were  com- 
bining against  Austria.  But  Austria  was  a  vast 
military  power,  and  her  generals  were  the  first  of 
their  (:laas.    The  efibrts  of  Europe  would  then  be 


»i  I.'  .iwi.'K.'..."U.B-,^-Mu.imm'assum*.\i     --J>'.u 


j-.TjA-f I  .J.J  II*  1.  mmmt 


oSfca  Tcpuhdd  I    Thd  lUt?  of  jitfAin  proenoi 

jMt?d  fhiny  ycmn '-    The  4ppTouh  ind  thi 
tiob  at  the  w»  mi((hi  have  brrn  pmUcU 


tbu  tbcy  vt  DTtphiLoBophkBl-  Knu  Ihe  TrTartner 
poMCMM  an  ettnimllnAry  portion  or  thU  awful 
pffopbetic  conhdencet  be  appun  to  hive  pre- 

^■ijey  at  RnchelJe,  he  prciUcted  thu  "  within  two 
or  thTce  yn^t  he  ibould  pttich  the  goapcL  at 
Baiot  Ollet'i  in  Bdinbuirh;"  in  improbabie 
event,  which  happeDed.  Of  Mary  inil  Damley, 
he  pTDnmmired,  that  "  ■  the  king,  for  Ibe  queen'i 

deaths  of  Thomis  Miitland,  and  of  Klrkaldy  oF 

ftcgEnt  Murray  not  to  go  to  Linlithgow,  where  be 
waa  aasaBlnafed,  oefanoncd  a  bafbart>ui  people  to 
Imagine  that  ihe  prophet  Knai  had  received  an 

Spaniih  friiT  and  almanark-maker  predicted,  in 
clear  and  pRcbc  words,  Iht  death  of  Henry  the 
PouTtb  of  France  j  and  Fkreic,  tbou^  be  had  no 
Faith  Id  the  nin  icieiicc  of  aatnjlogy,  vet,  alarmed 
at  whatever  menaced  tlK  UFc  oFi  beloved  mf>- 
narch,  cDTuolied  with  vitne  oF  the  kingS  frienda, 
and  bad  Ihe  Spaniih  alirunack  Laid  before  his 
majesty.  'Hiai  high-apiiiled  rnonarch  thanked 
Ihem  frv  their  inlidlude,  bnt  utterly  ttdited  the 
prediction  i  the  event  occurred,  and  In  (he  foUow- 
iDK  year  the  Spanoh  fHarapread  hli  own  &me  Ina 

at  tba  Jerernlada  Df  banal  Geor^  Wilhen,  the 

work)  B^ra  many  vlemn  prrdirtiona^  We  may 
account  (or  many  predieticiru  of  thii  cLua,  without 

Among  the  buy  ipirib  of  a  rerolatHinaiT  age,  d>e 
heads  of  a  part>',  such  as  Kixn,  have  frequently 

tna  eonatant  lourcc  of  concealed  InfoTrnatlDn,  a 
fbrewd,  ronlSdent,  and  eoThDilailic  temper  win 
find  ampde  matler  (or  myatenont  proclence. 
KnoT  cmrciied  that  deep  aagacihr  which  Took  in 
the  moflt  enlarged  viewi  oF  tiie  Future,  u  appears 
by  bia  Machiavellan  raTerif(bt  on  the  baitjannia 

'*  Tlie  hcic  way  to  keep  the  raotj  from  returning, 
la  ID  pull  down  thdr  luili"  in  tbe  case  of  the 
piedicIlDn  of  Ibe  death  of  Heniy  the  Fourth,  by 
tbe  spaniih  friar,  it  mulled  dlher  from  bii  being 
icquiinud  wllh  Ihe  plot,  or  tram  hii  being  madr 


iithey  find 


m  to  put  In  on3er,  and  re 


I  blunder  out  what  wDiidiy-prudent  men 
Separating   human   prediction    from    irt 

Ihe  neceaaiT  dependence  of  effceta  on  ■eDcral 
cauKa,  and  we  have  ahown  thai,  Impelled  by  the 

we  have  opened  the  true  aouree  of  thb  j-et  im- 
peifett  icleiKe  of  moral  and  political  muicrioN, 
In  an  intimate,  but  a  diKriminaiire,  knowlcdfe  of 


old' have  n^i!£ 


defeniive  meaiurea  to  break   the  walen, 

HooaiH  baa  profoundly  obverved,  llul  "  the  beat 

pniisance  and  migfal  of  adi 

and  defended  tbe  same.-t 
The  philosophy  uf  hMor)-  hlcndi  Ibe  pW  witb 

future  1  aJii  li  but  a  portion  of  the  other  f    The 

always  full  of  Ibe  Futnre,"aa  LaiaHrrzhai  happily 
ekprefied  tbe  idea. 
Anew  and  beiuttful  Ugbt  lathni  thrown  erct 

pirallela  of  dillcrenl  agetln  toccenon.    How  the 


m  IMscovtry, 


re  ttali  alwut  ii6e,  ai 


'^^^^ .,.,..,  .„„„.^ 

among  ounelrea!  He  penetrated  iolo  ibia  im' 
porlanl  principle  merely  bj-  the  force  oF  bit  own 
meditation.    AI  IMt  nmvd',  after  more  practical 

gent  Prench  writer,  in  a  Bimphlet,  endiled,  "M. 
deVUIde."aBya;  ''Eipenence  prodalou  a  great 


Ibe  aamc  Irulh  traced  to 


onrte  by  ■natbemd. 


r% 


i 


DREAMS  AT  THE  DAWN  OF  PHILOSOPHY, 


401 


PRKDiCTiONi,  to  which,  howe%'er  difficult  it  might 
be  to  affix  their  dates,  there  would  be  none  in 
exploring  into  causes,  and  tracing  their  inevitable 
effects. 

Tlie  multitude  live  only  among  the  shadows  of 
things  in  the  appearances  of  the  prxsent;  the 
learned,  buaied  with  the  past,  can  only  trace 
whence,  and  how,  all  comes ;  hut  he  who  is  one 
of  the  people  and  one  of  the  learned,  the  true 
philosopher,  views  the  natural  tendency  and  ter- 
minations which  are  preparing  for  the  ruruKs  1 


DREAMS  AT  THE  DAWN  OP  PHILOSOPHY. 

MODKRN  philosophy,  theoretical  or  experimental, 
only  amuses  while  the  action  of  discovery  is  sus- 
pended or  advances :  the  interest  ceases  with  the 
inquirer  when  the  catastrophe  is  ascertained,  like 
the  romance  whose  denouement  turns  on  a  m>-ste- 
rious  incident,  which,  once  unfolded,  all  future 
agitation  ceases.  But  in  the  true  infancy  of 
Science,  philosophers  were  as  an  imaginative  a 
race  as  poets :  marvels  and  portents,  undemon- 
strable  and  undetinable,  with  occult  fancies,  per- 
petually beginning  and  never  ending,  were  de- 
lightful as  the  shitting  cantos  of  Ariosto.  Then 
science  entranced  the  eye  by  its  thaumaturgy : 
when  they  looked  through  an  optic  tube,  they 
belie\'cd  they  were  lookmg  into  futurity;  or, 
starting  at  some  shadow  darkening  the  glassy 
globe,  beheld  the  absent  person;  while  the  me- 
chanical inventions  of  art  were  toys  and  tricks, 
with  sometimes  an  automaton,  which  frightened 
them  with  life. 

The  earlier  votaries  of  modem  philosophy  only 
witnessed,  as  Gatlarel  calls  his  collection,  "  Un- 
heard-of Curiosities."  This  state  of  the  mar- 
vellous, of  which  we  are  now  for  o^er  deprived, 
prevailed  among  the  philosophers  and  the  virtuosi 
m  Europe,  and  with  ourselves,  long  after  the 
establishment  of  the  Royal  Society.  Philosophy 
then  depended  mainly  on  authority — a  single  one 
was  sufficient :  so  that  when  this  had  been  repeated 
by  fifty  others,  they  had  the  authority  of  fifty 
honest  men — whoever  the  first  man  might  have 
been  1  They  were  then  a  blissful  race  of  children, 
rambling  heie  and  there  in  a  golden  age  of  inno- 
cence and  ignorance,  where  at  every  step  each 
gifted  discoverer  whispered  to  the  few  wme  half- 
concealed  secret  of  nature,  or  played  with  some 
toy  of  art ;  an  invention  which  with  great  difficulty 
performed  what,  without  it,  might  have  been 
done  with  great  case.  The  cabintts  of  the  lovers 
of  mechanical  arts  formed  enchanted  apartments, 
where  the  admirers  feared  to  stir  or  look  about 
them ;  while  the  philosophers  themselves  half 
imagined  they  were  the  very  thaumaturgi,  for 
which  the  world  gave  them  too  much  credit,  at 
least  for  their  quiet  1  Would  we  run  after  their 
shadows  in  this  gleaming  land  of  moonshine,  or 
sport  with  these  children  in  the  fresh  morning  of 
science,  ere  Aurora  had  scarcely  peeped  on  the 
hills,  we  roust  enter  into  their  feebngs,  view  with 
their  eyes,  and  believe  all  they  confide  to  us;  and 
out  of  these  bundles  of  dreams  sometimes  pick 
out  one  or  two  for  our  own  dreaming.  They  are 
the  fairy  tales  and  the  Arabian  Nights'  Entertain- 


ments of  Science.  But  if  the  reader  is  stubbornly 
mathematical  and  logical,  he  will  only  be  holding 
up  a  great  torch  against  the  muslin  curtain,  upon 
which  the  fantastic  shadows  playing  upon  it  must 
vanish  at  the  instant.  It  is  an  amusement  which 
can  only  take  place  by  carefully  keeping  himself 
in  the  dark. 

What  a  subject,  were  I  to  enter  on  it,  would  be 
the  narratives  of  magical  writers  1  These  precious 
volumes  have  been  so  constantly  wasted  by  the 
profane,  that  now  a  book  of  real  magic  requires 
some  to  find  it,  as  well  as  a  magician  to  use  it. 
Albertus  Magnus,  or  Albert  the  Great,  as  he  is 
erroneously  styled — for  this  sage  only  derived  this 
enviable  epithet  from  his  surname  De  Groot,  as  did 
Hugo  Grotius — this  sape,  in  his  "  Admirable 
Secrets,"  delivers  his  opinion  that  these  books  of 
magic  should  be  most  preciously  preserved ;  for, 
he  prophetically  added,  the  time  is  arriving  when 
they  would  be  understood !  It  seems  they  were 
not  intelligible  in  the  thirteenth  century ;  but,  if 
Albertus  has  not  miscalculated,  in  the  present  day 
they  may  be  1  Magical  terms  with  talismanic 
figures  may  yet  conceal  many  a  secret ;  as  that  of 
gunpowder  came  down  to  us  in  a  sort  of  anagram, 
and  the  Kaleidoscope,  with  all  its  interminable 
multiplications  of  forms,  lay  at  hand,  for  two 
centuries,  in  Baptista  Porta's  "Natural  Magic." 
The  abbot  Trithemius,  in  a  confidential  letter, 
happened  to  call  himself  a  magician,  perhaps  at 
the  moment  he  thought  himself  one,  and  sent 
three  or  four  leaves  stuffed  with  the  names  of 
devils,  and  with  their  evocations.  At  the  death  of 
his  friend  these  leaves  fell  into  the  unworthy  hands 
of  the  prior,  who  was  so  frightened  on  the  first 
glance  at  the  diabolical  nomenclature,  that  he 
raised  the  country  agaimt  the  abbot,  and  Trithe- 
mius was  nearly  a  lost  man !  Yet,  after  all,  this 
evocation  of  dcvib  has  reached  us  in  his  "  Stegano- 
graphia,"  and  proves  to  be  only  one  of  this  in- 
genious abbot's  polygraphic  attempts  at  ucret 
'writing ;  for  he  had  nattered  himself  that  he  had 
invented  a  mode  of  concealing  his  thoughts  from 
all  the  world,  while  he  communicated  mcvn  to  a 
friend.  Roger  Bacon  promised  to  raise  thilnder 
and  lightning,  and  disperse  clouds,  by  dissolving 
them  into  rain.  The  first  magical  process  has 
I  been  obtained  by  Franklin  ;  and  the  other,  of  far 
more  use  to  our  agriculturists,  may  perchance  be 
found  lurking  in  some  comer  wnich  has  been 
overlooked  in  the  •'  Opus  Majus"  of  our  **  Doctor 
Mirabilis."  Do  we  laugh  at  their  magical  works 
of  art  ?  Are  we  ourselves  such  indifferent  artists  ? 
Comelius  Agrippa,  before  he  wrote  his  "  Vanit>-  of 
the  Arts  and  Sciences,"  intended  to  reduce  into  a 
system  and  method  the  secret  of  communicating 
w^ith  spirits  and  demons.  On  good  authority,  that 
of  Porphyrins,  Psellus,  Plotinus,  Jamblichus — and 
on  better,  were  it  necessary  to  allege  it — he  was 
well  assured  that  the  upper  regions  of  the  air 
swarm  with  what  the  Greeks  called  dtrmones,  just 
as  our  lower  atmosphere  is  full  of  birds,  our  waters 
of  fish,  and  our  earth  of  insects.  Yet  this  occult 
philosopher,  who  knew  perfectly  eieht  languages, 
and  married  two  wives,  with  whom  ne  had  never 
exchanged  a  harsh  word  in  any  of  them,  was 
everywhere  avoided  as  having  by  his  side,  for  his 
companion,  a  personage  no  less  than  a  demon ! 
This  was  a  great  black  dog,  whom  he  sutlered  to 


492 


DREAMS  AT  THE  DAWN  OF  PHILOSOPHY. 


itretch  himself  out  among  his  magical  manu- 
scripts,  or  lie  on  his  bed,  often  Icissing  and  pattmg 
him,  and  feeding  him  on  choice  monel^.  Yet  for 
this  would  Paulus  Jovius  and  all  the  world  have 
had  him  put  to  the  ordeal  of  fire  and  faggot  I  The 
truth  was  afterwards  boldly  asserted  by  Wicru», 
his  learned  domestic,  who  believed  that  his  mas- 
ter's dog  was  reallv  nothing  more  than  what  he 
appeared!  *'I  belfeve,"  says  he, " that  he  was  a 
real  natural  dog ;  be  was  indeed  black,  but  cf  a 
moderate  size,  and  I  have  often  led  him  by  a 
string,  and  called  him  by  the  French  name  Agrippa 
had  given  htm,  Monsieur !  and  he  had  a  Kmalc 
who  was  called  Mademoiselle  I  I  wonder  how 
authors  of  such  great  character  should  write  so 
absvirdlv  on  his  vanishing  at  his  death,  nobody 
kncws  now !"  But  as  it  is  probable  that  Monsieur 
and  Mademoiselle  mu»t  have  generated  voxtir. 
puppy  demons,  Wierus  ought  to  have  been  more 
circumstantial. 

Albcrtus  Magnus,  for  thirty  years,  had  never 
ceased  working  at  a  man  of  brass,' and  cast  together 
the  qualities  of  his  materials  under  certain  constel- 
lations, which  threw  such  a  spirit  into  his  man  of 
brass,  that  it  was  reported  his  growth  was  visible ; 
his  feet,  legs,  thighs,  shoulders  neck,  and  head, 
expanded,  and  made  the  city  of  Cologne  uneasy  at 
ptMsessing  one  citizen  too  mighty  for  them  all. 
This  man  of  brass,  when  he  reached  his  maturity, 
was  so  loquacious,  thnt  Albert's  master,  the  great 
scholastic  Thomas  Aquinas,  one  da^,  tired  of  his 
babble,  and  declaring  it  was  a  devil,  or  devilish, 
with  his  start  knocked  the  head  ort  ;  and,  what 
was  extraordinar)',  this  brazen  man,  like  any 
human  being  thus  eHectually  silenced,  "word 
never  spake  more."  This  incident  is  equally 
historical  and  authentic  ;  though  whether  heads  of 
hra.HS  can  speak,  and  even  prophesy,  was  indeed  a 
subject  of  profound  inquiry,  even  at  a  later  period. 
Naudc,  who  never  questioned  their  *'ocal  powers, 
yet  was  puzzled  concerning  the  nature  of  this  new 
speiies  of  animal,  has  most  judiciously  stated  the 
question,  whether  these  speaking  brazen  heads 
had  a  sensitive  and  reasoning  nature,  or  whether 
demons  spoke  in  them  ?  But  brass  has  not  the 
faculty  of  providing  its  own  nourishment,  as  we 
see  in  plants,  and  therefore  they  were  not  sensitive ; 
and  as  for  the  act  of  reasoning,  these  brazen  heads 
presumed  to  know  nothing  but  the  future :  with 
the  past  and  the  present  they  seemed  totally  unac- 
quainted, so  that  their  memory  and  their  observa- 
tion were  very  limited  ;  and  as'  for  the  future,  that 
is  always  doubtful  and  obscure — even  to  heads  of 
brass  !  This  learned  man  then  infers,  that  "  These 
brazen  heads  could  have  no  reasoning  faculties, 
for  nothmg  altered  their  nature ;  they  said  what 
thev  had  to  say,  which  no  one  could  contradict  ; 
an((  having  saicl  their  say,  you  might  have  broken 
the  head  lor  anything  more  that  you  could  have 
got  out  of  it.  Had  they  had  any  life  in  them, 
would  they  not  ha%'e  moved,  as  well  as  spoken  ? 
Life  itself  is  but  motion,  but  thev  had  no  lungs, 
no  spleen;  and,  in  fact,  though  they  spoke,  thcv 
had  no  tong^ie.  Was  a  devil  in  them  ?  I  thinx 
not.  Yet  why  should  men  have  taken  all  this 
trouble  to  make,  not  a  man,  but  a  trumpet  ?" 

Our  profound  philosopher  was  right  not  to 
agitate  the  question  whether  these  brazen  heads 
had  ever  spoken  t    Why  should  not  a  man  of  brass 


•peak,  since  a  doll  can  whttper,  a  tUtne  i^ajdieM, 
and  brass  ducks  have  perfbrmcd  the  whole  pvoccaa 
of  digestion  ?  Another  magical  invention  hat  been 
ridiculed  with  cqunl  reason.  A  ma^cian  was 
annoyed,  as  philosophers  still  are,  by  panengen  in 
the  street ;  and  he,  particularly,  by  having  botses 
led  to  drink  under  his  window.  He  made  a 
magical  horse  of  wood,  according  to  one  of  the 
hooks  of  Hermes,  which  pcrfecuy  anaweted  its 
purpose,  by  friehtcning  away  the  horaes,  or  rather 
the  grooms!  the  wcKMen  hone,  no  donbt,  gave 
some  palpable  kick.  The  same  magical  story 
might  have  been  told  of  Dr.  Frankiin,  who  tindii^ 
that  under  his  window  the  paseiengers  had  <bs- 
coi'ered  a  spot  which  thev  nude  too  convenient 
for  themselves,  he  charged  it  with  bis  newlv-dn- 
covered  electrical  tire.  After  a  few  remaAable 
incidents  had  occurred,  which  at  a  former  period 
had  lodged  the  great  discoverer  of  electricity  at 
the  Inquisition,  tne  modem  magician  soccecded 
just  as  well  as  the  ancient,  who  had  the  advantage 
of  conning  over  the  books  of  Hermes.  Instead  of 
ridiculing  these  works  of  magic,  let  us  rather 
become  magicians  ourselves  I 

The  works  of  the  ancient  alchemists  have 
afforded  numberless  discoveries  to  modem  che- 
mists :  nor  is  even  their  grand  operation  despaired 
of.  If  they  have  of  late  not  been  to  renowned, 
thb  has  arisen  from  a  want  of  what  Ashmole  calls 
**  apertness  ;'*  a  qualification  early  inculcated 
among  these  illuminated  sages.  We  find  authen- 
tic accounts  of  some  who  nave  lived  three  cen- 
turies, with  tolerable  complexions,  possessed  of 
nothing  but  a  crucible  and  a  bellows  !  but  thev 
were  so  unnecessarilv  mysterious,  that  whenever 
such  a  person  was  cfiscovered,  he  was  sure  in  an 
instant  to  disappear,  and  was  never  afterwards 
heard  of. 

In  the  **  Liber  Patris  Sapientic "  this  selfish 
cautiousness  is  all  along  impressed  on  the  student, 
for  the  accomplishment  of  the  great  m>-steTy.  In 
the  commentary  on  this  precious  work  of  the 
alchemist  Norton,  who  counsels, 

*'  Be  thou  in  a  place  secret,  by  thyself  alone. 
That  no  man  see  or  hear  what  thou  ahalt  say  or 

done. 
Triist  not  thy  friend  too  much  wheresoe'er  thou 

go. 
For  he  thou  trustest  best,  somet>'me  may  be  thy 

foe," 

Ashmole  ob^en'cs,  that  "  Norton  gives  exceeding 
good  advice  to  the  student  in  this  science  where 
he  bids  him  be  secret  in  the  carrying  on  of  his 
studies  and  operations,  and  not  to  let  any  one 
know  of  his  undertakings  but  his  good  angel  and 
himself :  and  such  a  close  and  retired  breast  had 
Norton's  master,  who, 

'*  When  men  disputed  of  colours  t^f  the  rou. 
He  would  not  speak,  but  kept  himself  full  close  !'* 

We  regret,  that  by  each  leanng  all  his  knowledge 
to  "  his  good  angel  and  himselv*  it  has  happened 
th.it  "  the  good  angels  "  have  kept  it  all  to  them- 
selves I 

It  cannot,  however,  be  denied,  that  if  they  could 
not  always  extract  ^old  out  of  lead,  they  tometjmca 
succeeded  in  washing  away  the  pimptea  on  Jadipi' 


■!^TPW^''*^»^iSn 


■  •..uuawiji  Ulj  I 


"*««CWTW>^*»WWW^*-»*W*^ 


i 


DREAMS  AT  THE  DAWN  OF  PHILOSOPHY. 


4?3 


L 


faces,  notwithstanding  that  Sir  Kendm  Digby 
poisoned  his  most  Seaatiful  Udy,  because,  as 
Sancho  would  have  said,  he  was  one  of  those  who 
would  "har*^  his  bread  whiter  than  the  fidest 
wheaten."  Van  Helmont,  who  could  not  succeed 
in  discovering  the  true  elixir  of  life,  however  hit 
on  the  spirit  of  hartshorn,  which  for  a  ^ood  while 
be  considered  was  the  wonderful  elixir  itself,  re- 
storins  to  life  persons  who  seemed  to  have  lost  it. 
And  though  this  delightful  enthusiast  could  not 
raise  a  ^ost,  yet  be  tbou^t  he  had ;  for  he  raised 
something  ai^rial  from  ^a-water,  which  mistaking 
for  a  i^host,  he  ^ve  it  that  very  name ;  and  which 
we  still  retain  m  gai^  from  the  German  gtiii^  ot 
ghost  1  Doubtless  we  have  lost  some  inconceivable 
secrets  by  some  unexpected  occurrences,  which 
the  secret  itself  should  have  prevented  taking  place. 
When  a  philosopher  had  discovered  the  art  of  pro> 
lon^ng  life  to  an  indefinite  period,  it  is  most  pro- 
voking to  find  that  he  should  have  allowed  himself 
to  die  at  an  early  age  I  We  have  a  very  authentic 
history  from  Sir  JCenelm  Digby  himself,  that  when 
he  went  in  disguise  to  visit  Descartes  at  his  retire- 
ment  at  Esmond,  lamenting  the  brevity  of  life, 
which  hindered  philosophers  getting  on  in  their 
studies,  the  French  philosopher  assured  him  that 
**  he  had  considered  that  matter ;  to  render  a  man 
immortal  was  what  be  could  not  promise,  but  that 
he  was  very  sure  it  was  possible  to  lengthen  out 
bis  life  to  the  period  of  the  patriarchs."  And  when 
hu  death  was  announced  to  the  world,  the  abbe 
Picot,  an  ardent  disciple,  for  a  long  time  would 
not  believe  it  possible ;  and  at  length  insisted,  that 
if  it  had  occurred,  it  must  have  been  owing  to 
some  mistake  of  the  philosopher's. 

Paracelsus  has  re\'ealed  to  us  one  of  the  grandest 
secrets  of  nature.  When  the  world  began  to 
dispute  on  the  very  existence  of  the  eiehientary 
folk,  it  was  then  he  boldly  offered  to  give  birth  to 
a  fairv,  and  has  sent  down  to  posterity  the  recipe. 
He  describes  the  impurity  wnich  is  to  be  trans- 
muted into  such  purity,  the  gross  elements  of  a 
delicate  fairv,  which,  fixed  in  a  phial  in  fuming 
dung,  will  in  due  time  settle  into  a  full-grown 
fjunr,  bunting  through  its  vitreous  prison— on  the 
rivifving  principle  by  which  the  ancient  Bg>'ptians 
hatcnea  their  eges  in  ovens.  I  recollect  at  Dr. 
Fanner's  sale  theleaf  which  preserved  thb  recipe 
for  making  a  fairy,  forcibly  folded  down  hy  the 
learned  commentator ;  from  which  we  must  infer 
the  credit  he  gave  to  the  experiment.  There  was 
a  greatness  of  mind  in  Paracelsa%  who,  having 
furnished  a  recipe  to  make  a  fairy,  had  the  deli- 
cacy to  refrain  from  its  creation.  Even  Baptista 
Porta,  one  of  the  most  enlightened  philosophers, 
does  not  deny  the  possibilitv  of  engendering  crea- 
tures, which  "  at  their  full  growth  shall  not  ex- 
ceed the  size  of  a  mouse  :"  but  he  adds  that  "  they 
are  only  prett>-  little  dogs  to  play  with."  Were 
these  akin  to  tne  fairies  of  ParaccUus  ? 

They  were  well  convinced  of  the  existence  of 
such  elemental  beings;  frequent  accidents  in 
mines  showed  the  potency  of  the  metallic  spirits  ; 
which  so  tormented  the  workmen  in  some  of 
the  German  mines,  by  blindness,  giddiness,  and 
sudden  sickness,  that  they  have  been  obliged  to 
abandon  mines  well  known  to  be  rich  in  siher. 
'.  metallic  spirit  at  one  sweep  annihilated  tweU  e 
roincTB,  who  were  all  found  dead  together.    The 


fact  was  unquestionable ;  and  the  safety-lamp  nv% 
undiscovered  I 

Never  was  a  philosophical  imagination  more 
beautiful  than  that  exquisite  PalingenesUf  as  it 
has  been  termed  from  the  Greek,  or  a  regent 
ration  ;  or  rather,  the  apparitions  of  animals  and 
plants.  Schott,  Kireher,  Gaffarel,  Borelli,  Digby, 
and  the  whole  of  that  admirable  school,  dis- 
covered in  the  ashes  of  plants  their  primitive 
forms,  which  were  again  raised  up  by  the  force 
of  heat.  Nothing,  they  say,  perishes  in  luture ; 
aU  is  but  a  continuation,  or  a  revival.  The 
semina  of  resurrection  are  concealed  in  extinct 
bodies,  as  in  the  blood  of  man;  the  a^es  of 
roses  will  again  revive  into  roses,  though  smaller 
and  paler  tnan  if  they  had  been  planted :  un- 
substantial and  nnodoriferous,  they  are  not  roses 
which  grew  on  rose-trees,  but  their  delicate  ap- 
paritions;  and,  like  apparitions,  they  are  seen 
but  for  a  moment  I  The  process  of  the  Pa- 
lingerusUf  this  picture  of  immortality,  is  described. 
Tliese  philosophers  having  burnt  a  flower,  by 
calcination  disengi^d  the  salts  from  its  ashes, 
and  deposited  them  in  a  glass  phial* ;  a  chemical 
mixture  acted  on  it,  till  in  the  fermentation 
they  assumed  a  bluish  and  spectral  hue.  This 
dust,  thus  excited  by  heat,  shoots  upwards  into 
its  primitive  forms ;  by  sympathy  the  parts  nnite, 
and  while  each  is  returning  to  its  destined  place, 
we  see  distinctly  the  stalk,  the  leaves,  and  the 
flower,  arise :  it  is  the  pale  spectre  of  a  flower 
coming  slowly  forth  from  its  ashes.  The  heat 
passes  away,  the  magical  scene  declines,  till  the 
whole  matter  again  precipitates  itself  into  the 
chaos  at  the  bottom.  Tliis  vegetable  phoRnix 
lies  thus  concealed  in  its  cold  ashes,  till  the 
presence  of  heat  produced  this  resurrection — as 
in  its  absence  it  returns  to  its  death.  Thus  the 
dead  naturally  revive  ;  and  a  corpse  may  give  out 
its  shadowy  reanimation,  when  not  too  deeply 
buried  in  the  earth.  Bodies  corrupted  in  their 
graves  have  risen,  particulariy  the  murdered  ;  for 
murderers  are  apt  to  bury  their  victims  in  a  slight 
and  hasty  manner.  'Their  salts,  exhaled  in 
vapour  by  means  of  their  fermentation,  have 
arranged  themselves  on  the  surface  of  the  earth, 
and  formed  those  phantoms,  which  at  night 
have  often  terrified  the  passing  n>ectator,  as 
authentic  history  witnesses.  Hiey  have  opened 
the  graves  of  tne  phantom,  and  discovered  the 
bleeding  corpse  beneath ;  hence  it  is  astonishing 
how  many  gnosis  may  be  seen  at  night,  after  a 
recent  battle,  standing  over  their  corpses  !  On 
the  same  principle,  my  old  philosopher  Gaffarel 
conjectures  on  the  raining  of  frogs;  but  these 
frogs,  we  must  concei%-e,  can  only  oe  the  ghosts 
of  frogs;  and  Gaffarel  himseu  has  modestly 
openea  this  fact  by  a  "  peradventure."  A  more 
satisfactor)'  origin  of  ghosts  modem  philosophy 
has  not  afforded. 

And  who  does  not  believe  in  the  existence  of 
ghosts  *  for,  as  Dr.  More  forcibly  says,  "  That 
there  should  he  so  universal  a  fame  and  fear  of 
that  which  never  was,  nor  is,  nor  can  be  ever  in 
the  world,  is  to  mc  the  greatest  miracle  of  all. 
If  there  had  not  been,  at  some  time  or  other,  true 
miracles,  it  had  not  been  so  tssy  to  impose  on 
the  people  by  false.  The  alchymist  would  neve 
go  .-ifx>ut  to  sophisticate  metals  to  pass  them  off 


484 


DREAMS  AT  THE  DAWN  OF  PHILOSOPHY, 


for  true  gold  and  silver,  unless  that  such  a  thing 
was  acknowledged  a.  true  gold  and  silver  in  the 
world." 

Hie  Pharmacopcs'ia    A  those  times  combined 
more  of  morals  with  medicine  than  our  own. 
They  discovered  that  the  agate  rendered  a  man 
eloquent,  and  even  witty  ;  a  laurel  leaf  placed  on 
the  centre  of  the  skull,  fortified  the  memory  ;  the 
brains  of  fowls,  and  birds  of  swift  wine,  wonder- 
fully helped  the  imagination.    All  such  specifics 
have  now  disappeared,  and  have  greatly  reduced 
the  chances  of  an  invalid  recovering,  perhaps  that 
which  he  never  possessed.      Lentils    and    rape- 
seed  were  a  certain  cure  for  the  small-pox,  and 
very  obviously,  their  grains  resembling  the  spots 
of  this  disease.    They  discovered  that  those  who 
lived    on  "  fair "  plants  became    fair,  those  on 
fruitful  ones  were  never  barren  ;  on  the  principle 
that  Hercules  acquired  his  mighty  strength  by 
feeding  on  the  marrow  of  lions.     But  their  talis- 
mans, provided  they  were  genuine,  seem  to  have 
been    wonderfully  operative ;    and  had  we  the 
same  confidence,  and  melted  down  the  guineas 
we  give  physicians,  engraving  on  them  talismanic 
figures,  I  would  answer  for  the  good  effects  of 
the    experiment.      Naud6,    indeed,    has    utterly 
ridiculed  the  occult  virtues  of  talismans,  in  his 
defence  of  Virgil,  accused  of  being  a  magician : 
the  poet,  it  seems,  cast  into  a  well  a  talisman  of  a 
horse-leech,  graven  on  a  plate  of  gold,  to  drive 
away  the  great  number  of  horse-leeches  which 
infested    Naples.      Naude  positively  denies  that 
talismans  ever  possessed  any  such  occult  virtues : 
Gatfarel  regrets  that  so  judicious  a  man  as  Naudc 
should  have  gone  this  length,  giving  the  lie  to  so 
many  authentic  authors;  and  Naude's  paradox  is, 
indeed,  as  strange  a<  his  denial;  he  suspects  the 
thing  is  not  true  because  it  is  so  generally  told  ! 
"It  leads  one  to  suspect,"  says  he,  ''as  animals  are 
said  to  have  been  driven  away  from  so  many  places 
by  these  talismans,  whether  they  were  ever  driven 
from  any  one  place."     Gaffarel,  suppressing  bv 
his  good  temper  his  indignant   feelines  at  such 
reasoning,  turns  the  paradox  on  its  maker : — "As 
if,  because  of  the  great  number  of  battles  that 
Hannibal   is  reported  to  have   fought  with   the 
Romans,  we   might    not,  by  the    same    reason, 
doubt  whether  he  fought  anv  one  with  them." 
The  reader  must  be  aware  tnat  the  strength  of 
the  ai^ument  lies  entirely  with  the  firm  believer 
in  talismans.     Gaffarel,  mdeed,  who  passed  his 
days  in  collecting  "  Curiositdi  inouies,"  is  a  most 
authentic  historian  of  unparalleled  events,  even  in 
his    own    times !     Such   as    that  hea\7   rain  in 
Poitou,  which  showered  down  "petites  bestioles," 
little  creatures  like  bishops  uith  their  mitres,  and 
monks  with   their  capuchins  over  their  heads ;  it 
is  true,  afteni^-ards  they  all  turned   into  butter- 
flics ! 

The  museums,  the  cabinets,  and  the  inventions 
of  our  early  virtuosi  were  the  baby-houses  of 
philosophers.  Baptista  Porta,  Bishop  Wilkins, 
and  old  Ashmole,  were  they  now  living,  had  been 
enrolled  among  the  quiet  members  of  "The 
Society  of  Arts,"  instead  of  flying  in  the  air, 
collecting  "  A  wing  of  th«  phoenix,  as  tradition 
goes;"  or  catching  the  disjointed  syllables  of 
an  old  doting  astrologer.  But  these  early  dilet- 
tanti had  not  derived  the  ^me  pleasure  from  the 


useful  inventions  of  the  aforesaid  "Society  of 
Arts,"    as   they  received   from   what   Cornelias 
Agrippa,  in  a  fit  of  spleen,  calls  "thinfr  vin  and 
superfluous,  invented  to  no  other  entl  hot  for 
pomp  and  idle  pleasure."     Daptista    Porta  W£s 
more  skilful  in  the  mvsteries  of  art  and  nature 
than  any  man  in  his  (lay.    Having  fcunded  the 
Academia  de  Gli  Oauo/i,  he  held  an  inferirr  aao- 
ciation  in  bis  own  house,  called  Di  Secrtti,  where 
none  was  admitted  but  those  elect  who  had  com- 
municated some  ucret ;  for,  in  the  coily  period 
of  modem  art  and  science,  the  slightest  norelty 
became  a  secret  not  to  be  confided  to  the  no- 
initiated.      Porta    was    unquestionably    a     fine 
genius,  as  his  works  still  show;   bat  it  was  bis 
misfortune  that  he  attributed  bis  own  pcnetntii^ 
sagacity  to  his  skill  in  the  art  <  f  ditnnation.    Ht 
considered  himself  a  prognosticator ;  amd,  what 
was  more   unfortunate,  some   eminent   penoos 
reallv  thought  he  was.     Predictioos  and  secrets 
arc  narmless,   provided  they  arc  not  believed; 
but    his  Holiness   hnding  Forta's  were,  warned 
him  that  magical  aciences  were  great  hindrances 
to  the  study  of  the  Bible,  and  paid  him  the  com- 
pliment to  forbid   his  prophesying.     Porta's  ge- 
nius was  now  limited,  to  astonish,  and  sometimes 
to  terrify,  the  more  ingenious  part  of  /  Secretu 
On  entering  his  cabinet,  some  phantom  of  an 
attendant  was  sure  to  be  hovering  in  the  air, 
moving  as  he  who  entered  moved ;  or  he  observed 
in  some  mirror  that  his  face  was  twisted  on  the 
wrong  side  of  his  shoulders,  and  did  not  quite 
think  that  all  was  right  when   he  clapped  his 
hand    on    it ;    or    passing   through    a    darkened 
apartment  a  magical  landscape  Durst  on    him, 
with  human  beings  in  motion,  the  bougbs  of  trees 
bending,  and  the  very  clouds  passing  over  the  sun ; 
or   sometimes   banquets,    battles,   and    hunting- 
parties,  were  in  the  same  apartment.    "  All  these 
spectacles  my  friends  have  witnessed  !"  exclaims 
the    self-delighted    Baptista    Porta.      When    be 
drank  wine  out  of  the  same  cup,  his  friends  were 
mortified  with  wonder ;  for  he  drank  wine,  and 
they  only  water!   or  on  a  summer's  day,  when 
all  complained  of  the  sirocco,  he  would  freeze 
his  Ruests  with  cold  air  in  the  room ;  or,  on  a 
sudden,  let  off  a  flying  dragon  to  sail  alone  with 
a  cracker  in  its  tail,  and  a  cat  tied  on  its  hack ; 
shrill  was  the  sound,  and  awful  was  the  concus- 
sion ;  so  that  it  reauired  strong  nerves,  in  an  age 
of  apparitions  and  aevils,  to  meet  this  great  phi- 
losophtr  when   in   his  best  humour.     Albertus 
Magnus  entertained  the  Earl  of  Holland,  as  that 
earl  passed  through  Cologne,  in  a  severe  winter, 
with  a  warm  summer  scene,  luxuriant  in  fruits 
and  flowers.    The  fact  is  related  by  TYithemius— 
and  this  ma^cal  scene  connected  w^ith  his  vocal 
head,  and  hu  books  Dt  Secret  is  Mulierum,  and 
De  Mirabilibutt  confirmed   the  accusations  they 
raised    against    the   great    Albert,    for   being   a 
magician.     His  apolooist,  Hieophilus  Raynaud, 
is  driven  so  hard  to  defend  Alberttis,  that'  he  at 
once    asserts,  the  winter  changed    to    summer, 
and  the  speakine  head  as — two  infamous  flams! 
He  will    not    believe  these  authenticated  fact^ 
although  he  credits  a  miracle  which  proves  the 
sanctity  of  Albertus, — after  three  centuries,  the 
body  of  Albert  the  Great  remained  as  sweet  as 
o'crl 


/t 


i 


DREAMS  AT  THE  DAWN  OF  PHILOSOPHIC, 


425 


whether  such  "  Enchauntmcnts,"  u  old  Man- 
deville  cautiously  obscrvcth,  two  centuries  pre- 
ceding the  da>'s  of  Porta,  were  **  by  craft  or  by 
nygromancye,  I  wot  nerc."  But  that  they  were 
not  unknown  to  Chaucer,  appears  in  his  "  Frankc- 
Icin's  Tale,"  where,  minutely  describing  them,  he 
communicates  the  same  pleasure  he  must  himself 
hare  received  from  the  ocular  illusions  of  "  the 
Tregetoure,"  or  "Jogelour."  Chaucer  ascribes 
the  miracle  to  "  naturall  magique ;"  in  which, 
howerer,  it  was  not  yet  settled  that  "  the  Prince  of 
DarkncM  "  was  not  a  party  concerned. 

*'  For  I  am  siker  that  there  he  sciences 
By  which  men  maken  divers  apparences 
Swiche  as  thise  subtil  tregetoures  play. 
For  oft  at  festes  have  I  wel  herd  sav 
That  tregetoures,  within  an  halle  large. 
Have  made  come  in  a  water  and  a  barge. 
And  in  the  haile  rowen  up  and  doun. 
Sometime  hath  semed  come  a  grim  leoun. 
And  sometime  floures  spring  as  in  a  mede. 
Sometime  a  \ine  and  grapes  white  and  rede ; 
Sometime  a  castcl  al  of  lime  and  ston. 
And  whan  hem  likcth  voideth  it  anon  : 
Ttius  scmeth  it  to  every  mannes  sight." 

Bishop  Wilkins's  museum  was  visited  bv  Evelyn, 
who  desicribes  the  sort  of  curiosities  which  occu- 
pied and  amused  the  children  of  science.  "  Here, 
too,  there  was  a  hollow  statue,  which  gave  a  voice, 
and  uttered  words  by  a  long  concealed  pipe  that 
went  to  its  mouth,  whilst  one  speaks  through  it 
at  a  good  distance ;"  a  circumstance  which,  per- 
haps, they  were  not  then  aware  revealed  the  whole 
mystery  of  the  ancient  oracles,  which  they  attri- 
buted to  demons,  rather  than  to  tubes,  pullevs, 
and  wheels.  The  learned  Charles  Patin,  in  nis 
scientific  travels,  records,  among  other  valuable 
productions  of  art,  a  cherry-stone,  on  whicn  were 
engraven  about  a  dozen  and  a  half  of  portraits  ! 
Even  the  greatest  of  human  geniuses,  Leonardo 
da  Vinci,  to  attract  the  royal  patronage,  created  a 
lion  which  ran  before  the  French  monarch,  drop- 
ping/^ur/  dt  In  from  its  shaggy  breast.  And  an- 
other philosopher,  who  had  a  spinnet  which  played 
and  stopped  at  command,  might  have  made  a  re- 
volution in  the  arts  and  sciences,  had  the  half- 
stifled  child  that  was  concealed  in  it  not  been 
farced,  unluckily,  to  crawl  into  daylight,  and  thus 
it  was  proved  that  a  philosopher  might  be  an  im- 
postor! 

The  arts,  as  well  as  the  sciences,  at  the  fint  in- 
stitution of  the  Royal  Society,  were  of  the  most 
amusing  class.  The  famous  Sir  Samuel  Moreland 
had  turned  his  house  into  an  enchanted  palace. 
Ei'erything  was  full  of  devices,  which  showed  art 
and  mechanism  in  perfection  :  his  coach  carried  a 
travelling  kitchen ;  for  it  had  a  fireplace  and 
grate,  with  which  he  could  make  a  soup,  broil 
cutlets,  and  roast  an  egg ;  and  he  dressed  his  meat 
by  clock-work.  Another  of  these  virtuosi,  who  is 
described  as  *'  a  gentleman  of  superior  order,  and 
whose  house  was  a  knick-knackatory,"  valued  him- 
self on  his  multifarious  mventions,  but  most  in 
"sowing  salads  in  the  morning,  to  be  cut  for 
dinner."  The  house  of  Winstanley,  who  after- 
wards raised  the  first  Eddvstone  light-house,  must 
have  been  the  wonder  of  the  age.    If  you  kicked 


aside  an  old  slipper,  purposely  l>'ing  in  your  way, 
up  started  a  ghost  before  you';  or  ifyou  sat  down 
in  a  certain  chair,  a  couple  of  gigantic  arvu  would 
immediately  clasp  you  m.  There  was  an  arbour 
in  the  garden,  by  the  side  of  a  canal ;  you  had 
scarcely  seated  vourseK,  when  you  were  sent  out 
afloat  to  the  middle  of  the  canal — from  whence 
you  could  not  escape  till  this  man  of  art  and 
science  wound  you  up  to  the  arbour.  What  was 
passing  at  the  "  Royal  Society  "  was  also  occurring 
at  the  "  Academic  des  Sciences '»  at  Paris.  A  great 
and  gouty  member  of  that  philosophical  body, 
on  the  departure  of  a  stran^ser,  would  point  to  his 
legs,  to  show  the  impossibility  of  conducting  him 
to  the  door ;  yet  the  astonished  visitor  never  failed 
finding  the  virtuoso  waiting  for  him  on  the  out- 
side, to  make  his  final  bow !  While  the  visitor 
was  going  down  stairs,  this  inventive  genius  was 
descending  with  great  velocity  in  a  machine  from 
the  window :  so  that  he  proved,  that  if  a  man  of 
science  cannot  force  nature  to  walk  down  stairs, 
he  may  drive  her  out  at  the  window  ! 

If  they  travelled  at  home,  they  set  off  to  note 
down  prodigies.  Dr.  Plott,  in  a  magniflcent  pro- 
ject of  journeying  through  England,  for  the  ad* 
vantage  of  "  Learning  and  Trade,"  and  the  dis- 
covery of  "  Antiquities  and  other  Curiosities,"  tor 
which  he  solicited  the  royal  aid  which  Leland 
enjoyed,  among  other  notable  desi^s,  discrimi- 
nates a  class  thus :  "  Next  I  shall  inquire  of  animals ; 
and  first  of  strange  people." — "  Strange  accidents 
that  attend  corporations  or  families,  as  that  the 
deans  of  Rochester  ever  since  the  foundation  bv 
turns  have  died  deans  and  bishops ;  the  bird  witn 
a  white  breast  that  haunts  the  family  of  Oxenham 
near  Exeter  just  before  the  death  of  any  of  that 
family ;  the  bodies  of  trees  that  are  seen  to  swim 
in  a  pool  near  Brereton  in  Cheshire,  a  certain 
M^aming  to  the  heir  of  that  honourable  family  to 
prepare  for  the  next  world."  And  such  remark- 
ables  as  "  Number  of  children,  such  as  the  Lady 
Temple,  who  before  she  died  saw  seven  hundred 
descended  from  her."  TTiis  fellow  of  the  Royal 
Society,  who  lived  nearly  to  1700,  was  requested 
to  give  an  edition  of  Pliny  :  we  have  lost  the  bene- 
fit of  a  most  copious  commentary  !  Bishop  Hall 
went  to  *'  the  Spa."  The  wood  about  that  place  , 
was  haunted  not  only  by  *' freebooters,  but  by 
wolves  and  witches ;  although  these  last  are  oft- 
times  but  one."  They  were  called  loups-garoux ; 
and  the  Greeks,  it  seems,  knew  them  by  the  name 
of  AvKov^pwirovi,  men-wolves;  witchesthat  have  put 
on  the  shapes  of  those  cruel  beasts.  "  We  sawe  a 
boy  there,  whose  half-face  was  devoured  by  one 
of  them  near  the  villaj^e ;  yet  so,  as  that  the  eare 
was  rather  cut  than  bitten  off."  Rumour  had 
spread  that  the  boy  had  had  half  his  face  de- 
voured :  when  it  was  examined,  it  turned  out  that 
his  ear  had  only  been  scratched  !  However,  there 
can  be  no  doubt  of  the  existence  of  "  witch- 
wolves  ;"  for  Hall  saw  at  Limburgh  "  one  of  those 
miscreants  executed,  who  confessed  on  the  wheel 
to  have  devoured  two  and  forty  children  in  that 
form."  They  would  probably  nave  found  it  diffi- 
cult to  have  summoned  the  mothers  who  had  lost 
the  children.  But  obsene  our  philosopher's  rea- 
soning :  "  It  would  aske  a  large  volume  to  scan  this 
problem  of  lycanthropy"  He  had  laboriously  col- 
lected all  the  evidence,  and  had  added  his  reason- 


486 


o.v  racK  Tin:  comhestator. 


Rjvminri  ua  >  wrone  |irinci|iLc.* 
McnDlKicnee  nd  an  thcn.pu'd  Ihtir  dijn 

ppvcimcn  of  pbiliiophkil  conviioiuknce  in  jt 
letter  to  old  Jobn  Aibtn.    Tbc  writer  bctriyi 

dlKonrio.    "  My  tauuli  an  n  full  uf  worfcebu 

Krdct  NuTtb  would  tilLC  it  kindly  from  you— gire 
col."    He  hid  Utely  bcxid  of  I  Scotchinin  who 


1  fi^w  bfltics  fnim  Iht  holy  ih 
1  h«n  cut  dowD  by  a  mlKlaiy 


'SiSS. 


._ iivc  »  linglettDly 

<hom.  W  menl,  "  by  gnfting  and  ioocubtlon." 

AubtcTln  inlcnn  "  tlut  penon  ofquility  wbo  hid 
ciiher'hnc  ■  hiit.  thit  it  wu  impowble  lo  get 
'--*-'—     '  irn  loldi"  he  adds,  "that  there  ii 


pciwn  about  Olauonbuij  who  hath  a  d 

SXrig^t 

itry  i"  for  ■ 

ittacted  good  ROld,  aud  th 

M  be  him« 

bv  tjaditiou  in  that  part  <rfthe  country,  (bat  Id  the 


K  gold  Ted-' 


•  Han't  ponulaie  ii. 


■rnttenalwok  loeomni 
aj  Hall  iBKaAkalr  cilia  her ;  and  who  wit  told, 
with  (Kit  IndlgnMiou.  In  ibediDp  of  the  boabcllei 
of  Llp«>».  thil  when  Jamei  the  Ftnl  bad  juu 


■11  but  I  nwnkiih  tale,  forged  In  Ih.  *i^.  <d 

—  -  ' —  -hen.  I  queaiaD  wbeOeriUi 
e  rich  miiae  in  the  hUl.  iDT- 
V  luet.  I  diaU  iboitjj  nque* 
ti  mv  lord  about  It,  la  bin 
nean  time  it  will  be  bea  n 
lit  maje^y't  •eiTia,  Ui  hud- 


gold  of  ]I.  tai.  value  aiHcce,  of  ancient  oStT  Tlw 
■lone  belonged  lo  tome  cbimaey-woiki  the  said 

a  chimneypieee,  wbicb  be  had  accounted  lur  mj 
niionaUy,  aen'es  only  to  conlirm  ha  drram,  tbat 
they  were  coined  out  of  the  gold  of  the  mine  In 
ITie  bill:  and  he  becomes  more  urgent  fct  "i 

Ibink,  a  way  lo."  In  the  poalicript  be  addi  u 
account  of  I  well,  which  by  wubiai  wrooghl  ■ 
cure  on  a  penon  deep  in  tbe  king'i  eiil.    "  I  Inpc 

Thiipromited  (JiaofAuhiiyinayhe  ftnuid  in 

to  tec  it.    Aubrey'i  life  mi^l  (umiah  iTohimrc^ 

tiDI  biutk  and  iuaaliable  curvmnr,  wh  called 
••  The  Carrier  of  Conceptiouot  the  Koyal  Sock^y." 
Nisy  pleunl  nigbta  were  "' piivileiy "  mined 
by  Aubrey  ind  his  cormpondeu  about  tbe  "  Miqe 
in  the  Hill."  Such  were  tbe  fanciei  wbicb  ncked 
Ihe  children  of  KJencc  In  their  civdkil  and  io 
feeble  were  the  KepB  of  our  curkmi  infancy  I— 
But  I  Mart  in  my  dtcanul  dreading  the  rvadcr 


•opby! 


r% 


"-  • 


*-  '  -•'  ■ 


t*    ••■U>i 


•  I  II     "IIM 


ON  P  UCK  THE  COMMENTA  TOR, 


4^1 


unsuspicioas  readers  without  difficulty,  but  In 
which  no  partk  of  the  pretended  translations  cxn 
be  traced  in  their  originals;  and  to  the  present 
hour,  whatever  antiquaries  may  affirm,  the  poems 
of  Cbatterton  and  Ossian  are  veiled  in  m>*st«y  I 

If  we  possessed  the  secret  history  of  the  literary 
life  of  G 101101  Stbkvbxs,  it  would  display  an  un- 
paralleled series  of  arch  deception,  and  malicious 
mgenuinr.  He  han  been  happily  characterised  by 
Ifr.  Oitwrd,  ms  "the  Puck  of  CommenUtors I'' 
Stkkvsns  is  a  creature  so  spotted  o%'er  with  literary 
forgeries  and  adulterations,  that  any  remarkable 
one  about  the  time  he  flourtehed  mav  be  attributed 
to  him.  They  were  the  habits  of  a  uepraved  mind, 
and  there  was  a  d&rt.necs  in  his  character  many 
shades  deeper  than  belonged  to  Puck  ;  even  in 
the  playfulness  of  hb  invention,  there  was  usually 
a  turn  of  personal  malignity,  and  the  real  object 
was  not  so  much  to  raise  a  laugh,  as  to  "  grin  hor- 
ribly a  ghastly  smile,"  on  the  individual.  It  is 
more  than  rumoured,  that  he  carried  his  ingenious 
maBgnity  into  the  privacies  of  domestic  life ;  and 
it  is  to  be  regretted,  that  Mr.  Nichols,  who  might 
have  furnished  much  secret  history  of  this  extra- 
ordinary literary  for^,  has,  from  delicacy,  muti- 
lated his  collective  vigour. 

Georok  Stbkvens  usually  commenced  hb  ope- 
rations by  opening  some  pretended  discovery  in 
the  evening  papers,  which  were  then  of  a  more 
literary  cast ;  the  St.  James's  Chronicle,  the  Gene- 
ral Evening  Post,  or  the  Whitehall,  were  they  not 
dead,  would  fM>w  bear  witness  to  his  successful 
efforts.  The  late  Mr.  Boswell  told  me,  that  Steevens 
frequently  wrote  notes  on  Shakespeare,  purposely 
to  mislead  or  entrap  Malone,  and  obtain  for  him- 
self an  easy  triumph  in  the  next  edition  I  Stesvsms 
loved  to  a«ist  the  credulous  in  getting  up  for  them 
some  strange  new  thing,  dancing  them  about  with 
a  Will  o'  th'  winp— now  alarming  them  by  a  shriek 
of  laughter  I  and  now  like  a  ^nning  Pia;wi(^n 
sinking  them  chin-deep  into  a  auagmirel  Once 
he  presented  them  with  a  fictitious  portrait  of 
Shakespeare,  and  when  the  brotherhood  were  suffi- 
ciently divided  in  their  opinions,  he  pounced  upon 
them  with  a  demonstration,  that  every  portrait  of 
Shakespeare  partook  of  the  same  doubtful  au- 
thority !  He  usually  assumed  the  nom  tU  guerre 
of  Collins,  a  pseudo-commentator,  when  he  ex- 
plored into  "  a  thousand  notable  secrets  *'  with 
vrfaich  he  has  polluted  the  pages  of  Shakespeare ! 
The  mar\Tllous  narrative  of  the  upas-tree  of  Java, 
which  Darwin  adopted  in  his  plan  of  "enlisting 
imagination  under  the  banner  of  science,"  appears 
to  have  been  another  forgery  which  amused  our 
**  Puck."  It  was  first  given  in  the  London  Maga- 
zine, as  an  extract  from  a  FHitch  traveller,  but  the 
extract  was  never  discovered  in  the  original  author, 
and  "the  effluvia  of  this  noxious  tree,  which 
through  a  dbtrict  of  tMrelve  or  fourteen  miles  had 
killed  all  vegetation,  and  had  spread  the  skeletons 
of  men  and  animab,  affording  a  scene  of  melan- 
choly beyond  what  poets  have  described,  or  painters 
delineated,"  is  perfectly  chimerical  I  A  splendid 
flim-flam  t  When  L>r.  Berkenhout  was  busied  in 
writing,  without  much  knowledge  or  skill,  a  hb- 
tory  of  our  English  authors,  Stkevsn's  allowed  the 
good  TTLJi  to  insert  a  choice  letter  by  George 
Ptele,  eivmg  an  account  of  *'a  merry  meeting  at 
the  Gtobe,"  wherein  Shakespeare  and  Ben  Jon- 


son  and  Ned  Alleync  are  admirably  made  to  per- 
form their  respective  parts.  As  the  nature  of 
the  "  Biographia  Literau.i  "  required  authorities, 
Stbcvsns  ingeniously  added,  "  Whence  I  copied 
thb  letter  I  dk>  not  recollect."  However  he  well 
knew  it  came  from  "  The  Theatrical  Mirror," 
where  he  had  first  deposited  the  precious  original, 
to  which  he  had  unguardedly  ventured  to  affix 
the  date  of  1600;  unluckily,  Peele  was  discovered 
to  have  died  two  years  before  he  wrote  hb 
own  letter  I  The  date  b  adroitly  dropped  in 
Berkenhout  I  Stbbvbni  did  not  wish  to  refer  to 
his  original,  which  I  have  often  seen  qUoted  as 
authority. 

One  of  the  sort  of  inventions  which  I  attribute 
to  Stkbvk.ms  has  been  got  up  with  a  deal  of  ro- 
mantic erttect,  to  embellish  the  poetical  life  of 
Milton ;  and  unquestionably  roust  ha\-e  sadly  per- 
plexed hb  last  matter-of-fact  editor,  who  is  not  a 
man  to  comprehend  a  flim-flam ! — for  he  has  sanc- 
tioned the  whole  fiction,  by  preser^'ing  it  in  hb 
biographical  narrative  I  Ttie  first  impulse  of  Milton 
to  travel  in  Italy  b  ascribed  to  the  circumstance 
of  hb  having  been  found  asleep  at  the  foot  of  a 
tree  in  the  vicinity  of  Cambridge,  when  two 
foreign  ladies,  attracted  by  the  loveliness  of  the 
vouthful  poet,  alighted  from  their  carriage,  and 
having  admired  him  for  some  time  as  they  imagined 
unperceii'cd,  the  youngest,  who  was  very  beautiful, 
drew  a  pencil  from  her  pocket,  and  having  written 
Sonne  lines,  put  the  paper  with  her  trembling  hand 
into  his  own  I  But  it  seems,  for  something  was  to 
account  how  the  sleeping  youth  could  have  been 
aware  of  these  minute  particulars,  unless  he  had 
been  dreaming  them, — ^that  the  ladies  had  been 
observed  at  a  distance  by  some  friends  of  Milton, 
and  they  explained  to  him  the  whole  silent  ad- 
venture. Milton,  on  opening  the  paper,  fead /our 
t/erses  from  Guarini,  addressed  to  those  "human 
stars"  his  own  eyes !  On  this  romantic  adven- 
ture, Milton  set  off  for  Italy,  to  discover  the  fair 
"incognita,"  to  which  undiscovered  lady  we  are 
told  we  stand  indebted  for  the  most  impassioned 
touches  in  the  Paradise  Lost  I  We  know  how 
Milton  passed  his  time  in  Italy,  with  Dati,  and 
Gaddi,  and  Frescobaldi,  and  other  literary  friends, 
amidst  its  academies,  and  often  busied  in  book- 
collecting.  Had  Milton's  tour  in  Italy  been  an 
adventure  of  knight-errantry,  to  discover  a  lady 
whom  he  had  never  seen,  at  least  he  had  not  the 
merit  of  going  out  of  the  direct  road  to  Florence 
and  Rome,  nor  of  having  once  alluded  to  thb 
Dame  tie  set  pentees.  in  hb  letters  or  inquiries 
among  his  friends,  who  would  have  thought  them- 
selves fortunate  to  have  introduced  so  poetical  an 
adventure  in  the  numerous  canxeni  they  showered 
on  our  youthful  poet. 

Thb  hutoriette,  scarcely  fitted  for  a  r.ovel,  first 
appeared  where  generally  Stbkvcns's  literary 
amusements  were  carried  on,  in  the  General  Even- 
ing Post,  or  the  St.  James's  Chronicle :  and  Mr. 
Todd,  in  the  improved  edition  of  Milton's  Life, 
obtained  this  spurious  original,  where  the  reader 
may  find  it ;  but  the  more  curious  part  of  the  story 
remains  to  be  told.  Mr  Todd  proceeds,  "The 
preceding  highly-coloured  relation,  however,  is 
notjinguUir ;  my  friend,  Mr.  Walker,  points  out  to 
me  a  counterpart  in  the  extract  from  the  preface 
to  Poities   Ue  Marguerite-Eleanore  Clotiide,  depuis 


OS  PUCK  THE  COMMESTATOX. 


I,  Ftiii  Fraxftii  in  zr.  tUtU.  1 1 

unoDE  "  (he  funily    ■ 

lldc.  Ihit  JuUlne  &    I 


t  for  tlul  ficDtlcnuii  it  tbc  otttniibte  editor  | 
id'u)  lenmTut   unlucky  iu'^    «d^ 


■>,  ffru(<gnndmothcr  or 

he  ^(teenth  cenlurj-.  walkiDg  in  • 


&bricatioo  whi^  le 
tkm  of  Giurini' 

irun  the  mdoplUin  o( 


4r  that  would  hate 
luMoty  and  thc^iHr 


..  .g  tbe  Railitiani  of  the  bmil] 

•nl  lohn!    He  aimm,  that  the  „ 

n  he  ^Tjy  awokCr  and  had  read  Ihc  "  Ibiit 
e^"  wt  oH  Hit  Italy,  which  ta    -      - 


iTsJir: 


t  EitgUMi  crilict — (hey  find  a 
JClv  jiidi{e  impmbabLe,  and 
T  (he  (ale  copied,  (hey  con- 
X  lin^lar  !■•    Thii  knot  of 

e'm  laUy  loMfiol  in,  tot 

ie  objccUoiu, 
I  and  exproBou  which  weie 
r  a(  tbeliobc  they  are  pre- 
tnpoKdi  and  eihibiting 
n  and  other  poeu.  The 
1  Utiun  viriti,  and  (he 

>f  "  me  futnlly  tndittou" 


tucript,  and  whik  he 
I  IJM.  (h*«  pietly  i 


u  copvingfor 


completely  eipiied,  (ha(  no  oni 

ve  Tnt»t  preaumc  to  be  (he  poe(,  publbhec 

in  i*oj. 

1.  (hen,  in  the  biMory  of  a  IKeivy  forgery 

i)  quietly  thrown  out  (o  Ibe  world  in  i 

Ih-  Lite  Mr.  BiAdlej-,  w^bo  piociiEcd  tot  Mr.  Todt 

,.-  I    A  French  Chactcrt6n  picki  uj 

tbe   oWure   ule.  and   heboid,    aitonithei  (hi 
"     aT>-  inquiien  of  Ibe  •er\-  country  whence  th< 


■act  One  Isf3 


Oe  credited  that  lor  the  enjo)' 


lHatdiiueKian,  ~wha(  nai  Imth  Di  Da(UR  (« 

lilh  unDcn  }■•  The  iccret  biuofy  of  >hli 
inantable  mutilation  of  a  eremt  miliar  by  Ua 
<t  vii,  u  1  wai  informnT  bv  Ihe  ii(e  Ifr. 


paim  in  their  elucidation.  Sfecvetu  bimieJ 
formerly  reprinred  (hem ,  but  when  Halone  cla 

Jthakapearc  hinbclf,  to  condemn  Halone 
the  uiiK  witil,  bu(  wi(ti  marc  cauitic  plew 

Shikeipeare'i  wiie  <  l(  Kcms  (hat  Ibe  poei 
nark  the  tlliEtUnefa  of  hii  regard,  lor  he  oa\j  i 
nodiinc  more )     Malone  nalurally  it ' 


ber  by  Klllcment,  or  konwing  (hat  her  father  bM 

'\  he  bcquealbcd  to  her  at  hit  death,  Ba« 
HKan,af 


ntrrlj  a*  M  fim  iffmni 


-siitx;; 


y  of  taliic  marked  the  de^ 
leart ;  and  Murphy  ha*  mangly 
a  addrett  to  (he  M^ln-th. 
«  *»  Houri  Walhili  1  The 


on,  (he  Cattle  of 
aoto,  wat  brought  forward  in  the  guiae  of 
[ery,   la    hire  to   anreelinglT   repiob^cd   thfl 


UTERABT  FORQERJES. 


LITKRARV  roKGEBIES. 

(ubr^ct  Kr  ™  m«iii  incunou'u'ibe 

howcTcr,  ■rnie  tRqucnll)'  tcpcliliDni ;  pinkuiinj' 
thw  It  (he  mtpntiDO  ol  MItcn,  whin  Ihere 

llut  Ihi^  mighl  iJlenruiU  be  bnnigbl  In  '  -*-- 
lo  conlound  their  coBtentpanna.     Tlity 
pRplei    u*  It  the  prevent  dav.     Mdtg  linHler 
Nnverlei  h^vt  been  pctlormeil  oy^olcbmen,  df 
whom  Archihdld  Eknver.  LiiMlcr,Aadlfl»cphervi' 

Bien  h»nnle»  importuiet  by  hbic  oneipetled 
MTidenl  hive  drivtn  in  unwvT  itmuinrr  out  of 
the  roune-  G40TRC  Steereiu  moft  10I1II  ciukc  hu 
appetTa&ce  Tor  a  ntemDmbLe  trick  ptijred  dd  the 
AnEtquuy  Oough.  Thil  wu  hillunaiit  lombltgne 
on  which  mi  eacriTed  the  driakiiiE-horn  of 
HvdyknuTe  to  indTcntE  ha  lut  f«al  c  - 
Jhi>  wyjl  Dine  died  dtunk 

cicnlLjF  legible.     Steeped  In 

comer  of  ji  bnkirT'i  ihop,  vrl 


■ded  on  the  iiqudicioiu 


□wn  to   4  dbsenation    of  a  due  luie  for  I 
rchvDioKii  !     Gouieh  never  famtc  hlmaelf  nor 
lee«cT»,  fgi  thu  Hignnl  icl  al  inepHiude.    On 
rvry  Dccuinn  \a  the  G«i1ieniaD*i  Higatinc  when 
imeWhid  to   notice  Ihlt  ilLuitiSou  ImpsalliaB. 

imieir  at   under   hii   titular  oflice   of  "TTie 
•  thu  thtt "  modeni 


nllqnE  '■  wu  Bnlv  >  piece  of  ret 
lewing;  Maileni  Lile  of  Baker 


!iii  griphic  performince,  and  reptobiCEd  a  par- 
Init  which  liad  nalhlng  humin  In  il '.  Bieeveiu 
'owed.  Uuc  HTelthcd  ai  Gougb  deemed  hli  pencO 
\o  be,  il  ihDuU  make  "  the  lHrei:tDr "  ohuncd  of 
I'd  own  eya,  and  be  f^iljr  taken  in  by  umelhing 

hit  Iragmcnl  of  a  chiinney-ilab,  Hrhii-h  r  ha*.. 
leen,  and  with  a  brtler  )udgc  « 
"— ■■''^'-"iiBtiquary,  whoco""  ' 
^1  and  iU-formcd 
filK  ipelling  dE  Ihe  tu 
^..v<,Jed  In  pufng  oil  ai  ^  htiiu^ik  hmud  u 
tipllon  ;  hut  he  had  connted  on  hit  man  f  Th 

•  The  ilnne  may  be  found  in  the  Brtlii 
Mu«i.m.  HARDDNVTl,,hc  reading  on  tl 
ih^nimcMiARDAriNVTr  ^  ' 


"^bat. 


marble  the  epitaph  ol 


Tudile  it  Ibeo  puscd  for  an  ancient  inicrii 
■nd  the  antiquaiy  hffciechi  liuetted  It 
ph  in  hit  umit  on  "  Buriab."     Thiu  i: 


b  recorded  in  roflugi 


neat  Clntra.  bearing,  in  ancient  chanclen,  a 
inKriptioni  a  libjrlUne  onKle  (ddreued 
phelicill*  i'To  the  inhahilanD  of  the  w 
italing  t^t  when  IheK  threcHonei  ihiJI  be  U 
Ihe  OiBget,  the  Imliii,  and  Ihe  Tagui  il 
exchange  Iheir  cnnmiidiriB  t  Tbia  wai  Ihe 
fiiudala  ?DiIugutiepocl,  vilhtheipproTtli 

In  the  damp  earth,  *o  la  to  beeomc  ippai 

enlertainmeDt  a  peaaant  rvahed  in,  anrHfuncIng  (he 
■□ddcn  dbmrery  of  thH  treasiici  The  inscrip- 
tion «u  placed  among  the  royal  coilecliooi  u  i 
acred eurioiify f  Thepnphen' waiaccompliihcd, 
and  Ibe  oracle  waa  Jonv  coniidoed  genuine  r 

and  fabuloua  cbnMwhogiai  but  when  literary 
forgerict  are  putdhhed  by  Ihoae  whow  cbiricter 
u-_j...  ^„|(,  gf  ,  luapicHm  that  they  are  Ihcm- 
the  ImpoAOTt,  ue  dilRcully  of  luigninA  a 
Eonlyincreue«  ttM  ol  forrning  a  deciiinnj 
ipt  or   to   Tiied    Ibem    may  be  equally 

ublMted  a  pretended  coUeciioD  uf  hiitc 


re  itmaikible  br  their  i 


HHiira,  Ihe  high  rank 
tioD  iha(  beCd  lece 


LITERARY  FOSOESIES. 


hisary.  The  falie  Brroaiiu  opeiu  hii  hiilon- 
b(»Dre  the  drlugE.  when,  ■cctmfing  lo  him.  Ihc 
ChAJdcuu  through  preceding  «pi  oii  iaiihtaily 
pmentd  their  hiito-kzl  nidenoa  [    Anmus  hinti. 


died  (if  gi1eC^h»in>  uii 
litiwH  OD  thiae  iibuloui 


ituldcnbly  ituvied  By 


pnrtciulcd  wi 


:  presumed  fajrgerii 

TTie  problem  rcmL._.  _.. 

tA  the  Topect4bie  Anriiui.  in  regard  ti 
t,  u  well  u  vhat  he  affinned  wbei 


rejected  «nd  dvlended. 
Awnber  liictary  forirerr.  tiippcncd  to  have  b< 

lainity,    tt  «d  1^  dineiDg  kn  thrir  ground  tl 


etwilUoa  or  Ihe 


ing  one  Ihonund  Mges  u 
city-    Notvnlhiundiiig  Ih 


M  rnetaet  UU  the 


or  the  lecrelary  d(  the  college  of  t 


antiquary  at  the  time  of  the  ditcovery,  iba 

could  not  even  explain  them ;  and  that,  i 

freih  Teaearcho  were  made  on  the  ipot,  ether 


wu  pfobably  merely  to  niK  the  antjqoily 
Volalem.  the  limily  eitile  of  the  Inghinml ;  i 
for  thii  piirpme  one  of  lO  learned  bnaehca  1 
bequeathed  his  ponehtjr  a  collcclion  of  ^orii 


the  />/»  JwTttati  ^  laiDOHE,  which  were  fa 
for  Ihe  maintenance  of  the  papal  supremacy,  ud 


:>f  Ibc 

I  he  irruigiixd  thai  he  had  proved  th4t  the 

y  that  pDCI.    Hahdovih  waione  of  thoac 

lever  afterwarida  occun  onh'  lendi 

•Java  not  lo  ruve  been  aware.  Ihat  by  aacribini 
ich  prndi^  invcntioni  ai  PlutarTh.  11iucydidc« 
ivy,  Tacilui,  and  other  hiuoriani,  to  the  men  hi 
id,  he  wai  railing  up  in  unparalleled  age  ol 


*  The  voLume  of  theae  preUudcd  Antiqnit 


/: 


■  ainhenlicity  it  in  Italian.  Diunm 


LITERARY  FORGERIES. 


inttincnodhtlDrmrtH 
Tht  Pnjcr-Boil  ol 
ham  by  the  Pope,  wl ' 


Lumci  campoKd  igAlE 


liown  u  A  foTgco'-  By  rAlcuLBtion»  I1  uppcin 
hai  the  t  AprH,  1317,  fell  on  ■  Monday  I  The 
UooJ  FrliUy  mnu  to  hive  been  a  blundei  of  Ihe 


The 

g™ 

But 
hT 

S3 

■he  ecLipK  H  Ihe  Crucitiildn. 
he  puuge  in  the  hi.  in  the 
Vienna,  which  AbW  CoMainc 

ch-  al  ul  Jl  tiltr 
Ci  da  »»  bllon.  a 

iuacdai 

unmarrieil,  and  who  died  young, reiidingin the 
vicinity  of  VaucliuCp    Petrarch  had  oAcn  viewe ' 

ucielyHniduhet  family.*  If  the  AbM  owiin^ 

ia  ficed^  the  idle  nHunlic  paniaa'far  a  mar- 

ilury  el  the  fint  meeting  with  Laun  in  the  church 
of  H.  Clair  originaieJ  in  the  Munder  of  the  fotgefi 
miicancepllan  o(  a  panaRc  which  wia  incorrectly 


oTthe  hlilory  of  literary  forger)-,  flH  titb 
has  already  grown  \oluininout.    when  v 


originaj  waa  Bid  at  the  Di^  jc  la  Valliere'i  aale  T 
ThehiatoTT of  tbb  vohime  itcuriaui.  Theduke 
and  Ihe  abbe  haihtg  mamibclured  a  leil,  hid  it 
printed  in  Ihe  old  <iMhic  character,  umter  tlK 

put  the  great  hibliopnibt,  De   Bure,   111  good 

poatnrc.  Tbey  were  Uferwudt  10  dole  out  ccpicf 
at  twenty-live  louii  each,  which  woitld  have  been 
a  reaaonabie  price  tot  a  book  which  no  one  evet 

and  cajoled  bim,  and,  aa  Ihey  imagined,  at  a 
moment  Ibey  had  wound  him  up  to  their  pitch, 
they  eihiblled  thnr  miDuftclure ;  the  lieen-eyed 
glance  of  Ihe  rmnwoed  cataloguer  of  Ihe  "  Bibli- 
ographielmDuetire"  instantly  ihnt  lilie  lightning 
over  11,  and  like  lightning,  dealrotnl  the  whole 
edition.    He  noi  only  dlicovend  llic  forgery,  but 

forging  dukeandabbe.inccafuiion.  lupprcMil  Ihe 
Jtvfi  inlniivatb  1  but  Ihey  owed  a  grudge  la  Ihe 
honeit  bibliographer  and  atlcmptecllo  wn(e<iowq 

Amnnj  the  eitraordinary  literary  iinponunof 

the  Ithtnricl  pen  of  Biihop  Uouglai,  lived  <o  make 
hii  puMrc  recantation  of  hit  audacioui  Eor^cTin, 
and  CHATTUrru}^,  who  hu  hurkd  hii  iiKaphcable 
■lory  in  his  own  grave;  a  tale,  which  aeemibui 
halfioldi  we  mull  place  a  man  well  known  in 
the   lilcnry   world   under  Ibe  aaumedname  a( 


Jl  hythereK>TtfDriheJeuiti,andc<instrui 


cirlcntalint,  Ihey  wrote  from'lhe  Tight  10  the  left. 


MMMMta<a 


rttaMl^aMMMk 


I  ll  ^U     1 


■M 


491 


LTTERART  FORGERIES. 


He  fell  into  gross  blunders ;  having  inadvertently 
affirmed  that  the  Formosans  sacrificed  eighteen 
thousand  male  infants  annually,  he  persisted  in 
not  lessening  the  number.  It  was  proved  to  be  an 
impossibility  in  so  small  an  island,  without  oc* 
casioning  a  depopulation.  He  had  made  it  a 
principle  in  this  imposture  never  to  vary  when  he 
had  once  said  a  thing.  All  this  was  projected  in 
haste,  fearful  of  detection  by  those  about  him. 

He  was  himself  surprised  at  his  facility  of  in- 
vention, and  the  progress  of  his  forger)-.  He  had 
formed  an  alphabet,  a  considerable  portion  of  a 
new  language,  a  grammar,  a  new  division  of  the 
>  var  into  twenty  months,  and  a  new  religion  1 
He  had  accustomed  himself  to  write  his  language ; 
but  being  an  inexpert  writer  with  the  unusual 
way  of  writing  backwards,  he  found  this  so  diffi- 
cult, that  he  was  compelled  to  change  the  com- 
plicated forms  of  some  of  his  letters.  He  now 
finally  quitted  his  home,  assuming  the  character 
cf  a  Formosan  convert,  who  had  been  educated  by 
the  Jesuits.  He  was  then  in  his  fifteenth  or  six- 
teenth year.  To  support  his  new  character,  he 
practised  some  reli^ous  mummeries;  he  was  seen 
worshipping  the  rising  and  setting  sun.  He  made  a 
praver-t>ook,  with  rude  drawings  of  the  sun,  moon, 
•ncl  stars,  to  which  he  added  some  gibberish  prose 
and  verse,  written  in  his  invented  character,  mut- 
tering or  chanting  it,  as  the  humour  took  him.  His 
using  himself  to  feed  on  raw  flesh  seemed  to  assist 
his  Inception  more  than  the  sun  and  moon. 

In  a  garrison  at  Sluys  he  found  a  Scotch  regi- 
ment in  the  Dutch  pay ;  the  commander  had  tnc 
curiosity  to  invite  our  Formosan  to  confer  with 
Innes,  the  chaplain  to  his  regiment.  This  Innes 
was  probably  the  chief  cause  of  the  imposture  l>eing 
carried  to  the  extent  it  afterwards  reached.  Innes 
was  a  clergyman,  but  a  disgrace  to  his  cloth.  As 
soon  as  hchxed  his  eye  on  our  Formosan,  he  hit  on 
a  project ;  it  was  nothing  less  than  to  make  Psal- 
manaazaar  the  ladder  of  his  own  ambition,  and 
the  stcpping-place  for  him  to  climb  up  to  a  good 
living !  Innes  was  a  worthless  character ;  as  after- 
wards appeared,  when  by  an  audacious  imposition 
Innes  practised  on  the  Bishop  of  London,  he 
avowed  himself  to  t>e  the  author  of  an  anonymous 
work,  entitled  "  A  m(xlest  Enquiry  after  Moral 
Virtue ;"  for  this  he  obtained  a  good  living  in 
E»scx  :  the  real  author,  a  poor  Scotch  clergyman, 
obliged  him  afterwards  to  disclaim  the  work  in 
print,  and  to  pay  him  the  profit  of  the  edition  which 
Innes  had  made  I  He  lost  his  character,  and 
retired  to  the  solitude  of  his  living ;  if  not  penitent, 
at  least  mortified. 

Such  a  character  was  exactly  adapted  to  become 
the  foster-father  of  imposture.  Innes  courted  the 
Formosan,  and  easily  won  on  the  adventurer,  who 
had  in  vain  hitherto  sought  for  a  patron.  Mean- 
while no  time  was  lost  by  Innes  to  inform  the 
unsuspicious  and  generous  Bishop  of  London  of 
the  prize  he  possessed — to  convert  the  Formosan 
was  his  ostensible  pretext ;  to  procure  preferment 
his  concealed  motive.  It  is  curious  enough  to 
ob4er\'e,  that  the  ardour  of  conversion  died  away 
in  Innes,  and  the  most  marked  neglect  of  his  con- 
vert prevailed,  while  the  answer  of  the  bishop  was 
protracted  or  doubtful.  He  had  at  first  proposed 
to  our  Formosan  impostor  to  procure  his  discharge, 
and  convey  him  to   England :  thu  was  eagerly 


consented  to  by  our  pliant  adTcnturer.  A  few 
Dutch  schellings,  and  fair  words,  kept  him  in  good 
humour ;  but  no  letter  coming  from  the  bi«op, 
there  were  fewer  words,  and  not  a  stiver !  Thb 
threw  a  new  light  over  the  character  of  Innes  to 
the  inexperienced  youth.  Psalmanaazaar  saga- 
ciously now  turned  all  his  attention  to  some  Dotch 
ministers;  Innes  grew  jealous  lest  tbey  shoold 
pluck  the  bird  which  he  had  already  in  his  net. 
He  resolved  to  baptize  tl)e  impostor — which  only 
the  more  convinced  Psalmanaazaar  that  limes  was 
one  himself ;  for  before  this  time  Innes  had  prac- 
tised a  stratagem  on  him,  which  had  clearly  shown 
what  sort  of  a  man  his  Formosan  was. 

The  stratagem  was  this:  he  made  him  trans- 
late a  passage  in  Cicero,  of  some  length,  into  his 
pretended  language,  and  give  it  him  in  whtiM : 
this  was  easily  done,  by  Psalmanaazaar's  focilny 
of  inventing  characters.    After  Innes  had  made 
him  construe  it,  he  desired  to  have  another  venion 
of  it  oh  another  paper.    The  proposal,  and  the 
arch  manner  of  midiing  it,  threw  our  impostor 
into  the  most  vbible  confusion.    He  had  had  bat 
a  shoft  time  to  invent  the  first  paper,  less  to  re- 
collect it;  so  that  in  the  second  transcript  not 
above  half  the  words  were  to  be  found  which 
existed  in  the  first.    Innes  assumed  a  solemn  air, 
and  Psalmanaazaar  was  on  the  point  of  throwing 
himself  on  his  mercy,  but  Innes  did  not  wish  to 
unmask  the  impostor;  he  was  rather  desirous  of 
fitting  the  mask  closer  to  his  face.    Psalmanaazaar, 
in  this  hard  trial,  had  given  evidence  of  uncommon 
facility,  combined  with  a  singular  memory.   Innes 
cleared  his  brow,  smiled  with  a  friendly  look,  and 
only  hinted  in  a  distant  manner,  that  he  ought  to 
he  careful  to  be  better  provided  for  the  future! 
An  advice  which  Psalmanaazaar  afterwards  bore 
in  mind,  and  at  length  produced  the  forgery  of  an 
entire  new  language ;  and  which,  he  remarkably 
obser\es,  *'  by  what  I  have  tried  since  I  came  into 
England,  I  cannot  say  but  I  could  have  compassed 
it  with  less  difficulty  than  can  be  conceived  had 
I  applied  closely  to  it."    When  a  venion  of  the 
catechism  was  made  into  the  pretended  Formosan 
language,  which  was  submitted  to  the  judgment 
of  the  first  scholars,  it  appeared  to  them  gramma- 
tical, and  was  pronounced  to  be  a  real  language, 
from  the  circumstance  that  it  resembled  no  other  I 
and  they  could  not  conceive  that  a  stripling  could 
be  the  inventor  of  a  language.    If  the  reader  is 
curious  to  examine  this  extraordinary  imposture, 
I  refer  him  to  that  literary  curiosity,  **  An  His- 
torical and  Geographical  I>escription  of  formotM, 
with   Accounts  of  the   Religion,    Customs,   and 
Manners  of  the  Inhabitants,  by  George  Pulma- 
naazaar,  a  Native  of  the  said  Isle,"  1704;  with 
numerous  plates,  wretched  inventions !   of  their 
dress!  religious  ceremonies  1  their  tabernacle  and 
altars  to  the  sun,  the  moon,  and  the  ten  stars! 
their  architecture  !  the  viceroy's  castle !  a  temple ! 
a  city  house!   a   countryman's  house!  and  the 
Formosan  alphabet !  In  his  conferences  before  the 
Ro^al  Society  with  a  Jesuit  just  returned  from 
Chma,  the  Jesuit   had  certain  strong  suspicions 
that  our  hero  was  an  impostor !    The  good  father 
remained  obstinate  in  his  own   conviction,  but 
could  not  satisfactorily  communicate  it  to  others ; 
and  Psalmanaazaar,  after  politely  asking  pardon 
for  the  expression,  complains  of  the  Jesuit  that 


OF  LTTERART  FILCHEBS. 


ninMy   iDttitcd   hjUmi 


inhflppy  fOTRer  got  dboat 


■prnl  lac   i 


to  he  Hid  at  i  high  price  I    It  wu  curioui 


d  IM  (be  iplnuuJa  f, 
Auaiin  KMa  itae  virtDD  of  (he  hahiwu-v  vi  nn 

puitinn  for  litrWDtc,  biuI  olhcrwiw  Itae  retpecta- 
hiJiTy  of  their  lumcs.  According  10  Groae't 
"  clwical  Diciionnr  or  Ibe  Vulgir  Tongue,"  wc 
hii  e  hid  cdebrited  ttllttllti,  both  in  the  leiraed 

tijid  xnne  K1JOD4  to  be  lender  on  thi*  point,  di»- 
lingwiThed  Ihii  nHMleof  compldinE  hii  mJlectiDnv 
not  by  tMt^ltattBg,  hut  hf  boak'tavfliBg-    Un 


topmperf  A  lixht-fingeTed  Mi 
nil  piolHMe  that  we  ove  to  11 


King'!  Bench  frooi  the 
urchulatbennt.ltu 
hia  library,  lecnrds,  ev 
pniUlHi' 
■lie  king 


king  (  for  the  .lt< 


that "  the  hiihop  collected  hit  \ihntf  hv  ^li,n,lfrinc 
tboie  o(  the  cJergir  in  hit  diocese ;  mine  he  paid 

fliiiiiStriiit  Ihen  conilited  niher  uf  rajaliKf  a 


aopeat  thu  BiAop 


i^e  oather  fTom  a  pfccautinn  adopted  b>'  a  I 
he  bishop,  srhooneilay  vaalound  buu'  i 

lu  rtmi  taoti,  and  locking  up  u  mm. 

onld.  On  hdni  »ked  the  reaion  of  this  odd 
cciipatlon,  the  Mhliopolin  ingennnu>lv  replied, 
'The  Bishop  or  elydinnwltb  me  In^y."    Thli 


ton,  appointing  an  intE 
the  Bodleian  Ubnty,  (. 
he  held  any  book  u  del 


mal  dr^u^icb  Pnpe  In 
rench  bad  originated  in  hi<i  yo 


nhcn,  that 


run  not  only  openly  arcuKdiils  illustrinua  culprit, 
lut  was  rewlved  that  he  ihould  mit  iiiilt  the  lit 

rithout  replacing  the  precious  I'olumc—rrfim  i 


OF  LORD  BACOX  AT  HOME. 

d  to  tTT  Ihcir  xmglh :    Acrjukmic"  id 
Ll'i  Totta'-^mi  frnm    pilvnng vst onl 


Kvcn  fiMirhDTOTi  bit  dilnc  bed»  At  thov  iwful  H 

nol  be  CDnwkrcd  rcdtc  from  All  loo  curkmi 

huuk.  ttr  WiUiun  Dngdale  pn^cpr ' 

of  K)d^  Junn^  life,  wrinoi  b^  Cnnc 

■  fortmehl  of  hb  4c4th ;  b  alv  Caim 

which  hi  bid  fmin  Hackn,  lbs  mth 

life  oC  Biihop  Wi]||«ni :  who,  uhta  Aunnv, 

Jfir^  il  fnin  Mr.  C^indn,  u  he  by  I  dyinft  J' 

afterorvds  CDrmti  hb  idrbrmillont  by  tu 


kn'iDwnlirc 
oi  uf  the  fOJK 


ditaty  IbiD  Ibcie  lulHTUton  of  ow  IHcnry 
utninHAolyftaRitbebdliiyDfitaelrmneyi 
but  from  e  prcullir  conlrivtncc  wbidi  of  all  Ihiw 

cm  only  be  tmctbld  in  thl«  derartmcnt— lioT  Ihev 
»D  Meil  JUKI  no  humui  hand  cin  vnrrhtllein  with 
uy  pokibility  of  detection — thev  can  pick  e  ublnn ' 
and  iwillow  the  tininns  thiiifci.iind  (laininn  (hem , 
*ilh  MrfKI  lafelT, »  be  dfiMed  at  ibeir  kiuire. 
An  uventure  nf  thi^  kind  bjppcDed  tn  Biron 
MeKh.tbe  fimout  intiquuy.^l  wu  in  [ooking 


incited  ibu  Budd  Match  rikrniM 


111  chttce  of  Utcniy 
1  oa  wRieb  Ooo^ 
out  enough  ligil- 

Tcmeiy  pmbiMe  apiml  wttcr 
.  .  eitnordlnuy  put  of  tbli  <Iii^ 

4  blmxIfM 


wju  more  Mn^Ur  Ihin  diyKcfal-  At  the  doiti- 
tenneiil  of  the  lemiini  of  Rdwird  One  Fhn.enoBd 
vhicfa,  thirty  yuti  agOiBAcmbled  OUT  mm  ctwyi* 
■nliquiriei,  tjongh  wu  olncTved,  u  Itcevcni  oied 
to  rdalCt  in  a    wtapplnK  peat4oat  of  nmnul 

capable  bimvlf  ut  Inventiiui  inivhief,  eanly  m^ 
pected  olhet^  and  diruted  ^»  glance  ai  much  cm 
the  liviiw  piece  of  ulif]uitv,  m  on  the  rider.  In 
the  actolctming  uptheRlfoDrnTalty.tbeR  vaa 
found  wintinc  an  eoliie  foieliagei  of  Edward  the 
Fint ;  and  u  the  body  wa«  perfect  when  opened,  a 
murmur  of  diivtiafacHon  wai  ipKading,  when 
"  Pork  "  directed  their  atlentinn  to  the  greU  anti- 

tDD  liiivlr.  waa  niracted  Edward  the  Finl*i  great 
i "  the  tigbl-tingeted  antiqiurv  '■ 
rein  iltec  be  hid  denouitced 
»me  to  "  try  bb  hand." 


a.  forced  tn 


-__  the  urlcten  wirch  would  notarjfli 

"  Alx<,iitl  IhjTc  it  bRewilhin,'heiiid,pnintinE 
to  his  brcijit.  An  emetie  wai  Hunaced  bjr  tlu 
Itanied  pnciiiioncr  Mnwir.  pmhiblT  from  wim 
foroKr  exfieritDenl,  TliiH  wa«  not  die  lint  tim< 
ttijt  Hirh  a  niluni  cilitoiet  hul  been  InrentedL 
hre  VjilLiiil,  when  attarked  at  rea  bj-  an  AljKrine, 
zeaicHBly  « wjLLowed  a  whole  terici  of  itrriin  kint{«  i 
when  he  tended  at  Lycw  groaning  ^h  lUicna- 
ce.iled  tmuire,  he  hntrsnl  to  hii  friend,  hii  phy- 
vcun*  and  hn  brother  antiquary  Dnfnur,  -wnn  al 
lint  Wat  onhr  aniiAot  to  IniiuW  ni  bit  patient, 
whciber  Ibe'medih  were  of  the  higher  empire! 
Viiliint  iheweri  Iwnoi  three,  of  whirh  nature  bid 
kindly  Telieved  him-  A  coliection  nf  mcdali  wai 
left  tn  the  cite  nf  Enter,  and  the  imat  accom. 
pinied  the  heiiuctt  by  a  rlame  In  hit  wlU.  that 
thould  1  certiin  antlquarr,  hit  nid  friend  and 
rival,  be  de«lTui»  ofeuminfRg  the  ciilnt,he  thould 
Ik  niched  bv  two  pciwiua,  (Hir  nn  e  irh  4de.  La 
Cmie  JBfnnm  ix  in  h^  life,  that  Ihe  lemed  Chailei 


nhilntophical  I 
The  pcTwmal 


D  BACON  AT  HOME. 

Lord  Btcuxwmild  he  Ihitof  the 
letjandi  theme  to  worthy  of  the 

ratiie  of  ihb  master^geniui  or 
iDicmui  iDiHt  Lpi  ever  he  tepanled  from  the  tfdf^ 
iHitUerlii  he  wu  pernetuilly  aHenditie ;  and  the 
dnmettk  biitoiy  uf  t)ib  creative  mind  muiI  1^ 
cnndgned  to  the  mo«t  humiliating  chapter  ii,  the 
vnlune  of  bnman  life;  a  chapter  ilreuly  tuffi- 
denlly  enlar^ied,  ind  which  hu  irrefutiblv  proted 
hnw  the  greileic  mindi  ire  not  freed  from  the 
hitirmltiet  M  the  m»t  Tulgar. 

The  patent  of  our  pbiloMiphr  il  now  to  be  coq. 
tidered  in  a  new  hjchl.ane  which  nthen  do  sot 

temponrr  notim  of  Batux  have  often  corn  inced 
me  that  hit  nhikitophiciil  mnks  In  hli  own  din 


of  the  prcent  r jce  nf  coflenon:  Ritmnifeied  Ihe  which  appean  tn  hn  will,  thh  "lervut  of  poa- 
cwamn  nf  the  public  lihtanr  at  Bute  In  draw  up  a !  tertttr/'aihe  pmpheticilly  called  bimtelf,  mtiined 
catihune  of  Ihe  rihinet  of  Ameibick  there  pre- '  hn  tni^ly  tpint  with  the  conhdence  of  hit  aim 
•cn-eJ.ronriinlngi  gnnd  '       ■■     ^      '  _  ..       . 


ciaren  man  enonren;  nut  mw 
period  In  hb  life,  In  that  lul  le 


.....    -  -     _ lu^  had  the.  thtnn^  Iheiruturiiv  of  3i;n,>nd  perhaptamidM 

^atilogDe.wnler  not  dimlnithed  both  them  and  hit  >  the  tceplir^  and  the  re^tort  of  hb  plant,  mav 

-■■■-•-'■ ■ ■-■-  —-'—  -'  —'  ■  •■  w  now  cowecnled  hb  phUrsopEiicai  wotli*. 

At  coiiciK.Btcosdiicoyeied  how  "  tbil  jerip  of 
iredm  knouledEC,  the  peripiietle  philotophv/" 
id  th«  KhoUatic  babble,  couUl  not  lertc  ilKcrdi 


ume  of  the  n 
Llllhitp-      ■ 


i 


OF  LORD  BACON  AT  HOME. 


495 


and  purposes  of  knowledge  ;  that  syllo^sms  were 
not  things,  and  that  a  new  logic  might  teach 
us  to  inTent  and  judge  hy  induction.  He  found 
that  theories  were  to  oe  built  upon  experiments. 
When  a  young  man,  abroad,  he  began  to  make 
those  obserrations  on  nature,  which  afterwards  led 
on  to  the  fioundations  of  the  new  philosophy.  At 
sixteen,  he  philosophised ;  at  twenty-six,  he  had 
framed  hit  sjrstem  into  some  form  ;  and  after  forty 
vean  of  continued  labours,  unfinished  to  his  last 
hour,  be  left  behind  him  sufficient  to  found  the 
great  philosophical  reformation. 

On  hb  entrance  into  active  life,  studv  was  not, 
however,  his  prime  object.  With  his  fortune  to 
make,  his  court  connexions  and  his  father's  ex- 
ample opened  a  path  for  ambition.  He  choK  the 
practice  of  common  law  as  his  means,  while  bis 
inclinations  were  looking  upwards  to  political 
affairs  as  his  end.  A  passion  for  study,  however, 
had  strongly  marked  nim  ;  he  had  read  much 
more  than  was  required  in  his  professional  cha- 
racter, and  this  circumstance  excited  the  mean 
jealousies  of  the  minister  Cecil,  and  Coke  the 
attorney-general.  Both  were  mere  practical  men 
of  business,  whose  narrow  conceptions  and  whose 
stubborn  habits  assume,  that  whenever  a  man 
acquires  much  knowledge  foreign  to  his  profession, 
he  will  know  less  of  professional  knowledge  than 
he  ought.  These  men  of  strong  minds,  yet  limited 
capacities,  hold  in  contempt  all  studies  alien  to 
their  habits. 

Bacon  early  aspired  to  the  situation  of  solicitor- 
general  :  the  court  of  Elizabeth  was  divided  into 
factions  ;  Bacon  adopted  the  interests  of  the  gene- 
rous Essex,  which  were  inimical  to  the  party  of 
Cecil.  The  queen,  from  his  boyhood,  was  de- 
lighted by  conversing  with  her  "young  lord- 
keeper,"  as  she  early  distinguished  the  precocious 
f gravity  and  the  ingenious  turn  of  mind  of  the 
uture  philosopher.  It  was  unquestionably  to  at- 
tract her  favour,  that  Bacon  presented  to  the  queen 
his  "  Maxims  and  Elements  of  the  Common  Law," 
not  published  till  afler  his  death.  Elizabeth  suf- 
ferea  her  minister  to  form  her  opinions  on  the 
legal  character  of  Bacon.  It  was  alleged  that 
Bacon  was  addicted  to  more  general  pursuits  than 
law,  and  the  miscellaneous  books  which  he  was 
known  to  have  read  confirmed  the  accusation. 
This  was  urged  as  a  reason  why  the  post  of  soli- 
citor-general should  not  be  conferred  on  a  man  of 
specuUtion,  more  likely  to  distract  than  to  direct 
her  affairs.  Elizabeth,  in  the  height  of  that  poli- 
tical prudence  which  marked  her  character,  was 
swayed  by  the  vulgar  notion  of  Cecil,  and  believed 
that  Bacon,  who  afterwards  filled  the  situation 
both  of  solicitor-general  and  lord  chancellor,  was 
'•  A  man  rather  of  show  than  of  depth."  We  ha%*c 
been  recently  told  by  a  great  lawyer,  that  "  Bacon 
'vas  a  master." 

On  the  accession  of  James  the  First,  when  Bacon 
still  found  the  same  party  obstructing  his  political 
advancement,  he  appears,  in  some  momentary  fit 
of  di^ust,  to  hav  meditated  on  a  retreat  into  a 
foreign  country"  r.  circutnstance  which  has  hap- 
pened to  several  of  cur  men  of  genius,  during  a 
fe^-cr  of  solitary  indicmalion.  He  was  for  some 
time  thrown  out  of  the  sunshine  of  life,  but  he 
found  its  shade  more  fitted  for  contempUtion } 
»nd,  um]uestionably,  philosophy  W4S  t>ei)etiVed  hy 


his  solitude  of  Qmy'%  Inn.  His  hand  was  always  on 
his  work,  and  better  thoughts  will  find  an  easy 
entrance  into  the  mind  of  uiose  who  feed  on  their 
thoughts,  and  live  amidst  their  reveries.  In  a 
letter  on  this  occasion,  he  writes,  **  My  ambition 
now  I  shall  only  put  upon  my  mn,  wheireby  I  shall 
be  able  to  maintain  memory  and  merit,  of  the 
TiMta  succEEDtNO."  And  many  years  after,  when 
he  had  finally  quitted  public  lite,  he  told  the  king, 
'*  I  would  live  to  study,  and  not  study  to  live  :  yet 
I  am  prepared  for  datt  obolum  Belisario  ;  and  I 
that  have  borne  a  bag,  can  bear  a  wallet." 

Ever  were  the  times  bucceeoino  in  his  mind. 
In  that  delightful  Latin  letter  to  Father  Fulgentio, 
where,  with  the  simplicity  of  true  grandeur,  he 
takes  a  view  of  all  his  works,  and  in  which  he 
describes  himself  as  "  one  who  served  posterity," 
in  communicating  his  past  and  his  future  designs, 
he  adds,  that  *'  tney  require  some  ages  for  the 
ripening  of  them."  There,  while  he  despairs  of 
finishing  what  was  intended  for  the  sixth  part  of 
his  Instauration,  how  nobly  he  despairs  1  "  Of  the 
perfecting  this  I  have  cast  away  all  hopes ;  but  in 
future  ages,  perhaps,  the  design  may  bud  again." 
And  he  concludes  by  avowing,  that  the  zeal  and 
constancy  of  his  mind  in  the  great  design,  after  so 
many  year«,  had  never  become  cold  and  iodif- 
fereiit.  He  remembers  how,  forty  years  aso,  he 
had  composed  a  juvenile  woilc  about  those  ttiings, 
which  with  confidence,  but  with  too  pompous  a 
title,  he  had  called  Temfmrit  Partus  Maximus ;  the 
great  birth  of  time !  Besides  the  public  dedication 
of  his  Nwum  Organum  to  James  the  First,  he 
accompanied  it  with  a  private  letter.  He  wishes 
the  king's  favour  to  the  work,  which  he  accounts 
as  much  as  a  hundred  years'  time ;  for,  he  adds,  "  I 
am  persuaded  the  tuork  tvUl  gain  upon  nun's  minds 
in  AGES." 

In  his  last  will  appears  his  remarkable  legacy  of 
fame.  "  My  name  and  memory  I  leave  to  foreign 
nations,  and  to  mine  own  countrymen,  after 
ROME  Ti  ME  BE  PARSED  OVER."  Time  Seemed  always 
personated  in  the  imagination  of  our  philoMpher, 
and  with  Time  he  had  to  wrestle  with  a  conscious- 
ness of  triumph. 

I  shall  now  bring  forward  sufficient  evidence  to 
prove  how  little  Bacon  was  understood,  and  how 
much  he  was  even  despised,  in  his  philosophical 
character. 

In  those  prescient  views  by  which  the  genius  of 
Verulam  has  often  anticipated  the  institutions  and 
the  discoveries  of  succeeding  times,  there  was  one 
important  object  which  even  his  foresight  does  not 
appear  to  have  contemplated.  Lord  Bacon  did 
not  foresee  that  the  Enzlish  language  would  one 
day  be  capable  of  embiuming  all  that  philosophy 
can  discover,  or  poetry  can  inirent ;  that  his 
country-  should  at  length  possess  a  national  litera- 
ture of  its  own,  and  that  it  should  exult  in  classical 
compositions  which  mi^t  be  appreciated  with  the 
finest  models  of  antiquity.  His  taste  was  far  un- 
equal to  his  invention.  So  little  h"  esteemed  the 
language  of  his  countr}-,  that  his  favourite  works 
are  composed  in  Latin ;  and  he  was  anxious  to 
have  what  he  had  written  in  English  preserved  in 
that  **  universal  language  which  may  last  as  long 
as  l)ooks  last,"  It  would  have  surprised  Bacux  to 
have  been  told,  that  the  most  learned  men  in 
Europe  have  lt^died  EnRl>»h  «v^thor»  to  learn  to 


,j£A'J£ffX  J 


'^J>..<ti«»V>»»><rifcfJ^-.->^'-  ~»'.'iS'JxJ^*^  \ '  nrwii<w>— ^nmJg^W^-^  ...L-'*^— — J 


SES^Z?" 


OF  LORD  BACON  AT  HOME. 


•vsi-s. 


UnguaK  it  Ibe  only  object  in  bu  grMi  lu 
■nuidof  na1UT«,wbi'h(twBDrHhingof  ill 
len«1o  tbc  |(eniiuolB4CON, 

He  bad  rnvm  indnd  (a  b«  mmtihed 
recntbon  of  bis  phikiwphictJ  vorki;  ii 
Riiwln',  cTcn  lonK  yein  lAcr  thr  dulh 


lilion  i  thereby  rerlTyina  thtX  divine  ^cnErnce,  ■ 
TOpbcl  i>  noV  without  nreKWr,  ui-v  in  bii  oim 
ovntn'  and  in  his  ovm  Iiouk-'*  Even  ihr  men 
ifgenioSfWho  onghllahmw  «impiTheD(kd  (hii 
lew  KniTce  of  knowledge  thut  opened  to  them, 
dncluitLy  entered ;  »  repugnAnt  are  wr  tud- 

4biC  faive  nude  «  part  of  .-^uriclve^.    Har^-ey^ 


philowpber;   be  wtitei  philoaopby  ]i 


e  not  «/■  /lit  'o.((r"\!(  (*"Uv4  i.^  vbeieof  I  iBeiik 
ut  if  1  had  you  t  txlnJKbt  «t  Goraunthuy,  ' 


Dwn  conCfYtwu; 


Kholutlc  to  Ibe 
of  tbc  ptaikw>|>hy 


of  aU  phiLoanphy. 
and  poUihing  it»  i 


Lftervarda  «-c  And  rhal  "the  kin^  cannot 

ook  in  lay,  that  il  n  like  Ihr  ftma  tf  G^ 

B«cox  found  hut  imill  encoungement  for  hii .  l*jl  i.rpourti  all  nBJfilanitMg," 
Finu  (ramiiig  among  ihi  nHol  eminenl  ichoLirs,  |     Two  yean  af[er«irdj  ihr  aaine   Leilev-vriter 

1-eiy  copious  letler  by  sir  Thomas  Bodley  on  Ba-  ;  fiicox.     "  This   lord  buiin  himself  iliogetber 


the  nev  pbiknopbv.    "  1  am  one  nf 
ut^  Sir  Tbninas,  ''  thai  say  we  pm- 


He  oiro  •  hint  too  (hat  St\ 
lite  inhaitc  makinu  aI  hvi 


lo  lekoovledge."   hi 
■ncnnpliinnl  "of  dnni^M  <v  i^au  »■ 
hii  lime  j"  that  all   apputnee,  the  mir 
htf#nnHh»  ^'irlMHit   VcTulam*!  histoTy  0 
our '  fiirth  j  I  have  iktit  i 


rce  of  annineai,  lo  diiciai 
naiims.  Kc^  left  by  tradition  inm  i 
to  Ds.  which  hive  paiicd  all  prubiiii 
irnest  vlt3  Ibat  ever  were ;"  mil  he  c 
JL  Bacon"!  philosophy^ 


and  he  lean  that  it  would  require  as  ninv  a^tes  as  drew  m' 
have  maithed  before  ut  that  knowtedge  shonld  be  ~  not  ilwi 
perfectly  achieved.  Bodley  (mly  cumpaitg  him-  uce.  I 
■eir  10  *■  the  nrtict^  hone  which  cannot  blanch  jwhote  ■ 
the  beaten  way  In  which  I  nas  trained."* 
Bacuv  did  iMit  kuc  bean  by  the  timiditv  of 


■theea 


'  -■  -IT  Ibe  Seventh  it  come 

luehofil,  but  they  say 

r.>rhan»ao  knowledge, 

r  provinces,  and  coe^- 
iB  of  apopbtbegms  ;  his 

rheod  hi^  plant,  ridiculed  (be 
■  quote  I  conlempniy  poet. 


rt,  which  I  hen  y"u  llkeie-   

are  tUMbful,  and  yon  help !     •   Hern 


BECIiET  HISTORY  OF  THE  DEATH  OF  QUEEN  ELIZABETH.     497 


One  Bid,  SI.  Albmiu  Dov  ii  grvwn  uiubk, 

{l.r.  0Kiui-i^.J 

To  the  dve  af  bb  fUyi  vm  Lord  Bacoh'i 

pbLUwiphicaL  piimilQ  htlll  diirtgirded  tAd   de- 

prcdalcd  b>'  ifiwrancc  «im1  cn(7,  In  Ibc  fonm  of 

grcit  litrycT,  ind,  like  il]  lach,  bul  i  mind  u 
wilkd  [d  br  Uw-knowlFdEe.  Itau  [n  itt  bounded 

{uullici,  ind  Ibe  whole  of  hh  pfaHaapbr  lir  in 
^ ..  ...-  ..^ ,,  Hojkfum  itxce 


be  feuDd  1  from 

Coke. 

fy  of  Lonl  B^ 
a  Ibe  wiitiDg  or 

Edw.  coke 

tmiu 

D«lll 

■".. 

mLniitnlianof  rbeCbjinciTy.  Tbe  boQk  wu  pub- 
Uihed  in  Oeiober,  i6u,  a  lew  raontlu  betore  tbe 
Impeichmenl.  Andmruone  miyuiily  eicuie 
the  cioiticiw  of  Cake ;  but  bov  he  mliy  rilned 
the  pbiUvwpbf  of  Bacoh  ApjKHTi  by  thU :  in  Ibli 
linl  (dillon  Ihete  le  i  dctice  of  >  >blp  puiing 
benieen  Hrrculiyi  piUuii  the  Mm  nUn,  tbe 
proud  eialutlon  of  oor  phUaMvher.    Over  thli 

EbeIUi,  which  RHTkf  hn  BMcr  toniEinpt  ol  ibe 

■faip  pulDi  belween  the  column!  of  Hcicula  he 
ivcinlnllir  cancein  u  "Tbe  Ship  of  Fooli."  the 
fimout  Mlire  of  Ibc  Ocrmaa  tkbuHlu  Bnndt, 
IrfiuUled  by  AJdunder  Buclaf  i 

II  inrr^tlk  Ml  It  IM  rMd  M  jr«H<I. 

Bui  It  bt/rntUtil  In  llu  M^  rfftU. 
Such  then  wu  Ihe  faK  af  Laid    BicOHi   ■ 

dioppcd  fn>m  Ibe  pen  of  hu  ehapluD.  and  alreuy 


he  oppotitc  ptrtks  of  hit . 


B  ptrtks  of  hit  fiotTmment, 


he  hftd  need  of  conciliidng  ■]!  panin  10  ha 

murrntlon,  pnd  wv  pnababiy  u  doubtful  on  bij 
dcHh-bed  whom  10  flppt^ni  bit  iucccbot,  u  ■( 
viy  cKber  period  of  hu  reign.  Ludlow  luspectj 
that  CmmwcLI  wb  "  u  diKomposed  in  boJy  tn- 
mlnd.thM  he  could  not  utrnd  10  thit  maltct; 
itid  wbethci  be  named  iny  noe  ii  10  me  un- 
cenain."  AU  Ibat  we  know  li  the  report  of  the 
Secretary- ThutlDW  and  hii  chaplaini,  wbo,  wben 
the  piDtector  Lay  in  fab  lot  igonie*,  tuggened 

•nd  they  teU  oi  that  he  igreed  lo  Uiit  choice* 
Had  CBOHWiu.  becD  in  hit  ■vnio,  he  would  bavc 
probably  ftacd  on  Htmy,  the  kml  lieutenint  of 

not  choien  eicber  of  hit  mnt  I 

,  _-iild  not  endure  the  rhougbia  of 

cevoFi  indlonylbrew  Into  jeop^irtly  the 

WDom  had  their  fitcHirlle  nndldale  10  tupport. 
The  Iccllilnate  bclr  lo  Ihe  Itamne  of  England 
WB  to^  tbecTeilure  ol  herbnatb,  )el  Bllia- 


ibal  the  quern  ttill  lelatned  »  muih  of  llie  wo- 

dldike  to  name  a  tucceiwr,  w  that  according  to 

meicy  of  ■  party  I  Thli  would  ha\'e  been  acliUK 
unworthy  of  the  magnanimity  of  hrr  great  cha- 
racter— and  Bi  il  u  ascertained  that  the  queen 

aevenl  dap  before  the  natural  cataa^ophe  oc- 
eniTed,  It  la  dlficull  to  belien  thai  ibe  lolally 
diBfCKUikd  10  impaitant  a  circumKance.  11  11, 
dienleR,  ttiaonliic  1  fitri,  men  naionl  in  con- 
clude, that  Ibc  cboice  of  a  luccisor  mnit  haie 
;Dpicd  ber  tboiwhl^  at  well  at  Ihe 


It  Aikin  haa  nbte^ed,  that "  Ibe  dwnfr  * 
a  markM  by  thai  peeuUarlly  of  character 


cr  paBloru.  and  peih^p 


ic  mvt  drvmaiz  Boliit ;  and  (bm  ve  And  the  :  uut  wrtT  ttiiKil  inia  Iwr  hnkrbafnbn-^      Aa  0^ 
rcumtuncc  or  Ibis  iiK^mry  intToducfd.     The  ,  »  they  were  pcriccUy  connnced  Ihu  i^  ctHLid 

itc^ibil  11  II  doublfuL  whelher  her  rTujewy  vU'  oi  undenurul  one.  Ihcjr  Duned  tbe  kins  erf  teDtt 

jDiflcn  reipeclini^  tbc  luccevuOD.     The  Etfl  of    ^ad  ^'h  «Mtf  »  j^Jil :  the  put  her  haod  10  ba 

ut  anemocm,  by   p^n.     f  A/  ^r^j.  ^-Av  tittrfrttrd  krr  MpujMJi  m 

,  »nd  by  piiRing   ik€)  pUai,.i,veTt  tmmMxr^  ronyiaccAOua^K 

acccei  her,  tbev  lU  knew  be  wa  the  -  Jjmri  fAi  tixik  u  *<r  mtautr.     wnut  una  thk 

of  a  dying  vomanpulliHK  her  hand  to  wrt  adoring  the  twos  ™n  ^'* 
IV,  la  lav  the  bwt,  a  rcrv  amhiicuoiu  ■     Thn  i^  LivrJv  and  |iluuibLe ;   but  the  boUc 
Ti|dil  of  Ihe  Scottish  monvch  to  the  -  editor  did  not  recoUecl  thai  ~  the  ipeeihei  made 
English  itaione.    Tha  "odd"  but  vcrv  bji'lv  at-,  hi  Eliiahelh  on  ber  dcalb'hed."  which  be  dceoB 


rthing  miflht  hate  Cjmden,  and  Bert  only  lepeated  tor  Kapin  tai 
— „  _v  Kfiich  Bad  BOI  Ecbatd.fct.  1  am  row  to  tonlinn  the  Bamdn 
o  deicTibet  Ihe  dcilh-bcd,  of  the  ddei  hiitonan,  if  well  aithe  cicmmUKi 
icene  of  fcLiiAlxrH;  by  ihia  authentic  wriirr  it  fHaled  bvCaiy,ilncTibin£the  ucnof  the  quecD  a 
^^can  thai  ihc  had  coDhded  her  slate-iccrti  of  ^  little  dilfercntlyt  which  bappem^  on  Wedikesda|-, 

■hani;{  aDduhenthceaiifodihl  tbeqaeen  iitve  a  fuUer  jnd  more  circoiihtiDtiaJ  account  of 
■I  hcT  enticiniiy,  *(  cinnuiiirjoJ  her  dii>  ailiii,  which  comnKnced  on  ilu  pitn,iatf  An, 
_,_.._. '1  itml  u  Ur  louiuU,  who  cnnimi~iioned ,  »hen  the  queen  Rtained  the  power  of  ipEcchi 
the  hud  adminl.  Itae  lunl  keepei,  and  Ihe  lecR- :  and  it  will  he  cDnfe«cd  that  the  linguaec  hen 
tary,  lo  w^t  on  her  ma|eit>',  iiid  acquaint  her   uxd  hai  all  that  JuftiniH  and  eonciiiun  vhleb  «h 

her  piejMiR  io  reference  (o  llv  mtettiua.    The  i  a  cuiiout  document   in   a   manuicnpt  toll 

queen  wb  then  ten  wejk,  and  annrered  Ihe«;  liimieilyin  Ihe  fv        —  --  . 

wiih  a  Ijint  voicei  ikil  ilie  had  already  declared, '  bn  own  bandwriTin 
that  ai  ibe  held  i  ro^  >cc|in«,  w  the  dnired  no ,  ticiiy,  and  it  cuuld 

_j.  ._-t__  _ .1-^^^^.^     when  the  tecretary '  tbe  Uhbtrtoui  per* 

rir,  the  qiKCn  lu^  ■  *hal  lolrinn  Kene, 

.  irm  Htcceed  DM;  and  who '  rmdum  beittiiled, 
_-  hut  my  neuen  kinuiun.  Ihc  kinK;     "  Acciinnlofthe 

an  end  lo  by  the  Interlcreihv  of  tbc  arcbhbbw  I     "  On  Ihe  Tnei-dj 
advi^ng  her  aajeiity  tn  mm  bcr  Ihouj^hta  to  Gnd, 

inleirrit>' would.  tiur>)  at  Ibe  bcd't  feet,  all  lundmj 
JleaBe  ue  nirw  |  adminl  pul  her  in  mind  of  her  speech 
,  .. n referred  loon   thcmccotion  had  at  N^'hileball.  andthu  uxy,  in 

Ei^Eli^  mlnitlenhaidcnnAikdtoIhltamluiMdor;       "/  loUytu  mj  uai  l\ad  btniluif,iirftmfi,amd 

It  popular  htalorian,  wbo  could  itnly .  tJtmtJ  itucaJ  nr  but  j  king  t 
IrjnKiihr  Ihe  accoiinl  of  Caiy.  He  had  liJd  u-  a  "  The  loidf  not  underManriing  Ibb  dark  iBC«h. 
r,ic1  which  he  <ould  not  be  mkiukcD  in,  thai  the  and  lookinit  one  on  the  olber ;  at  lenfin  Wr. 
queen  fell  ipeechlea  on  Wcdoevlay,  and  of  Manh,  Secmarv  bddly  aiked  her  whal  ibe  iikioi  br 
on  wblcb  day,  liowerer,  the  calk^lKr  (ouii.il, '  Ihine  wonK  that  «  raiat  iAdkU  mart  tii. 
—J — J..!...  .:_  .-1,1.  I..- L.-j  _j.i.i.  _  .tj  ivheretotberepUtil.Ihai  Jtar  i«aiijiwei-«,  (*ai« 
-.- —  -.-:'•  *'"'  **""  '"""''  •"»■  «'*•.  quo£  itae,  iknU 

1  cork  and  Orrer);,  baa  obaened,  thai       "The)-  pkvd  b«  whether  that  were  ber  ahiolntc 
:hn  nuiie  for  EllUBtni  on  her  death-  rewluUon }    wbereU  the  auweied,  I  ptaj  ytm 

itoh'ns make heriav faintly  ivCaintlv  utib  which  animr they  departed. 

1  it  could  not  powihiy  lie  be.rd„  "I.     _"  Sniwitbitmdins.    aftel    acaiu,     about     four 


w^iudcred  j  ri^I  ink  ol 


'f 


'^'"•'^ 


I  11      B  1 1  fc^j>aMi^^itfci.<m<^^, 


JAMUS  THE  FIJRST,  AS  A  FATHER  AND  A  HVSBANl).  499 


Wednesday,  after  the  Archbishop  or  Canterbury, 
and  other  divines,  had  been  with  her,  and  left  her 
in  a  manner  speechless,  the  three  lords  aforesaid 
repaired  unto  her  again,  asking  her  if  she  remained 
in  her  former  resolution,  and  who  should  succeed 
her  ?  but  not  being  able  to  ppeak,  was  asked  by 
Mr.  Secretary  in  this  sort,  •  We  beseech  your 
matesty,  if  you  remain  in  >our  former  resolution, 
and  that  you  would  have  the  king  of  Scots  to 
succeed  \  ou  in  your  kingdom,  show  some  sign  unto 
us:*  wHereat,  suddenly  hetn/ing  htrself  ufitvards 
in  her  bed,  and  putting  her  arms  cut  0/  bed,  the 
held  her  hands  jointly  over  her  head  in  manner  of  a 
cro-um;  whence,  an  they  jessed,  she  signified 
that  she  did  not  only  wish  him  the  kingdom,  but 
desire  continiuince  of  his  estate :  after  which  they 
departed,  and  the  next  morning  she  died.  Imme- 
diately  after  her  death,  all  the  tords,  as  well  of  the 
council  as  other  noblemen  that  were  at  the  court, 
came  ftom  Richmond  to  Whitehall  by  six  o'clock 
in  the  morning,  where  o^her  noblemen  that  were 
in  London  met  them.  Touching  the  succession, 
after  some  speeches  of  divers  competitors  and 
matters  of  state,  at  length  the  admiral  rehearsed 
all  the  aforesaid  premises  which  the  late  queen 
had  spoken  to  him,  and  to  the  lord  keeper,  and 
Mr.  Secretary  (Cecil),  with  the  manner  thereof; 
which  they  being  asked,  did  aHirm  to  be  true, 
upon  their  honour." 

Such  is  this  singular  document  of  secret  history. 
I  cannot  but  value  it  as  authentic,  because  the 
one  part  is  evidently  alluded  to  by  Camden,  and 
the  other  is  fully  confirmed  by  CarV  ;  and  besides 
this,  the  remarkable  expression  cf  "rascal"  b 
found  in  the  letter  of  the  French  ambaiMador. 
There  were  two  inter\-iews  with  the  queen,  and 
Cary  appears  only  to  have  noticed  the  last  on 
Wednesday,  when  the  queen  lay  speechless. 
Elizabeth  all  her  life  had  persevered  in  an  obstinate 
mysteriousncss  respecting  the  succession,  and  it 
harassed  her  latest  moments.  The  second  inter- 
view of  her  ministers  mav  seem  to  us  auite  super- 
numerary ;  but  Cary's  ''  putting  her  hand  to  her 
head,"  too  meanlv  describes  the  "joining  her 
hantb  in  manner  of  a  crowp." 


JAMES  THE  HRST.  AS  A  FATHER  AND  A 
HUSBAND. 

Calumnies  and  sarcasms  have  reduced  the 
character  of  James  the  Pint  to  contempt  among 
general  readers;  while  historians,  who  have  to 
relate  facts  in  spite  of  themselves,  are  in  perpetual 
contradiction  with  their  own  opinions.  Perhaps 
no  sovereign  has  suffered  more  by  that  art,  which 
is  describra  by  an  old  Irish  proverb,  of  "  killing  a 
man  by  lies."'  The  surmises  and  the  insinuations 
of  one  party,  dissatisfied  with  the  established 
government  m  church  and  state,  and  the  miscon- 
ceptions of  more  modem  writers,  who  have  not 
possessed  the  requisite  knowledge,  aided  by  anony- 
mous libels,  sent  forth  at  a  particular  period  to 
vilify  the  Stuarts,  the  philosopher  cannot  .treasure 
up  as  the  authorities  of  history.  It  is  at  least 
more  honourable  to  resist  popular  prejudice  than 
to  yield  to  it  a  pa^ve  obedience ;  and  what  we 
can  ascertain,  it  would  be  a  dereliction  of  truth  to 
conceal.     Much  can  be  subctantiated  in  favour  of 


the  domestic  affections  and  habits  (»f  thb  padfic 
monarch ;  and  those  who  are  more  Intimately  ac- 
quainted with  the  secret  history  of  the  times  will 
perceive  how  erroneouslv  the  personal  chsjracter 
of  this  sovereign  is  exnibited  in  otif  popular 
historians,  and  often  even  amdng  the  few,  who, 
with  better  information,  have  re-echoed  these  pre- 
conceived opinions. 

Confining  myself  here  to  his  domestic  character, 
I  shall  not  touch  on  the  many  admirable  public 
projects  of  this  monarch,  which  have  extorted  the 
praise,  and  even  the  admiration,  of  some  who  have 
not  spared  their  pens  in  his  disparagement. 
James  the  Pint  has  been  taxed  with  pusillanimity 
and  foolishness ;  thb  monarch  cannot,  however,  he 
reproached  with  having  engendered  them  I  All 
hb  children,  in  whose  education  their  father  was 
so  deeply  concerned,  sustained  through  life  a 
di^ified  character,  and  a  high  spirit.  The  short 
life  of  Henry  was  passed  in  a  school  of  prowess, 
and  amidst  an  academy  of  literature.  Of  the 
king's  paternal  solicitude,  even  to  the  hand  and 
the  letter-writing  of  Prince  Henry  when  young,  I 
have  preserved  a  proof  in  the  article  of  "The 
History  of  Writing-masters."  Chartos  the  First,  in 
his  youth  more  particularly  designed  for  a  studious 
life,  with  a  serious  character,  was,  however,  never 
deficient  in  active  bravery,  and  magnanimous 
fortitude.  Of  Elizabeth,  the  Queen  of  Bohemia, 
tried  as  she  was  by  such  vicissitudes  of  fortune,  it 
b  much  to  be  regretted  that  her  interesting  story 
rcmaiiu  untold;  ner  buoyant  spirits  rose  always 
above  the  perpetnal  chanpces,  of  a  princely  to  a 
private  state — a  queen  to  an  exile !  The  father  of 
such  children  derives  some  di^inction  for  capacity, 
in  having  reared  such  a  noble  offiq>ring ;  and  the 
king's  marked  attention  to  the  formation  of  the 
minds  of  his  children  was  such  as  to  have  been 
pointed  out  by  Ben  Jonson,  who,  in  his  "  Gipsies 
Metamorphosed,"  rightly  said  of  James,  using  hb 
native  term, — 

*'  You  are  an  honest,  goocl  man,  and  have  eare  of 
YOUR  Bkarns"  (bairns). 

Among  the  flouts  and  gibes  so  freely  bespatter- 
ing the  personal  character  of  James  the  First,  b 
one  of  hb  coldness  and  neglect  of  his  queen.  It 
would,  however,  be  difficult  to  prove  by  any 
known  fact,  that  James  was  not  as  indulgent  a 
husband,  as  he  was  a  father.  Yet  even  a  writer  so 
well  informed  as  Daines  Barrington,  who,  as  a 
lawyer,  could  not  refrain  from  lauding  the  roy^) 
sage  during  his  visit  to  Denmark,  on  hb  marriage, 
for  having  borrowed  three  statutes  from  the 
Danish  code,  found  the  king's  name  so  provocative 
of  sarcasm,  that  he  could  not  forbear  observing, 
that  James  "  spent  more  time  in  those  courts  of 
judicature  than  in  attending  upon  his  destined  con- 
sort." — '*  Men  of  all  sorts  have  taken  a  pride  to 
gird  at  me,"  might  thb  monarch  have  exclaimed. 
But  e^'erything  has  two  handles,  saith  the  ancient 
adage.  Had  an  austere  Puritan  chosen  to  observe 
that  James  the  First,  when  abroad,  had  lived 
jovially;  and  had  thb  historian  then  dropped 
silently  the  interesting  circumstance  of  the  king's 
"  spending  hb  time  in  the  Danish  courts  of  judica- 
ture," the  fact  would  have  borne  him  out  in  hb 
reproof;  and  Francis  Osborne,  indeed,  has  censured 
James  for  {pving  marks  of  his  uxoriousneu !  There 


"•  V. 


JA3IES  THK  FIRST,  AS  A  FATHER  AXD  A  RUSBASD. 


wa  no  ikfirleni  ^LbDtnr  In  the  cr 

when  Ibc  rnncm  al  IMnmirk  i 
ilann  bKk  la  Nomy.the  king  re 
In  Ihe  inincni,  iiul  cannimnule 

whlcb  he  pljnds  oreix-hirge^^ 

mikc*  no  prvmlncnl  ligurr 

wu  A  qririlcd  uid  eDIerprutng  v 
■ppean  from  1  pnuge  in  BuUf,  i 
iDouLd  wei|i^  with  us,  illhough 


huloTy.  for  ihe 
ne  of  Denmuk 


htnti  of  Ibe  king,  on  (bi)  inhect,  exprnnl  wi 
1  limplici^  of  i^icvhich.lhangh  iiRuvnot 
nj'Bli  u-  BnKthiEw  iK-llcr,  ippe«i  in  ■  lett?r 
Ihe   qiwen,  which   Iw  N«n  VKserred  tn  1 
iiqienilli  lo  Mr  Darid  Mln'Diple^  ailkdiiHii. 
b  iriihnul  dile,  hut  nriilren  when  in  HcoUuul 
qulcItlu;oueen'ibn>|n[iiinsIbald>c  Emrl  of  M:>c, 
wliD  hid  Ihe  cire  of  Prince  Hrniy,  ind  whoin  the 
wiihed  To  lake  out  (if  bli  band*,  hid  inrinnaicd  to 
IhekiRHIhjIhrrm^lefly  wuilroa^^  iHfpowiTD 


ud  niiiu*,  I  anKht  Id  dolo  nv  wire,  and  mothn 

dwgdteT  i  tor  wheihcr  j-c  hwr  a  kiniCi  diU|{hiEr, 
or  I  cooks  duKhlct,  ya  moil  Ik  ill  tHke  lo  me. 
•ince my  wiCe.  FuilhcRipcnuryDuthiinaunhie 

uul  Tc^pnl  I  now  Imr  jnu  ii  hea'me  fbii  ye  in 
my  maincd  wife.  And  w  puuker  of  my  honour, 
«  of  my  other  forlunn.  I  liaeEtb  von  nenK 
my  pliiitineii  in  Ihih,  for  cuting  up  of  your  hinh 

not  pertinent).  Ood  ii  my  wilnoo,  1  c^'er  pre- 
ferred  vqu  to  (forj  my  itaimi,  mutb  more  than  to 
>  .ulneet."     ....... 


d he dlncall to uy.  TlKprofleoyDf  Jun^ 
a  HinicienlJr  bopeik  Ibeir  funilT  raeis- 


leen  recorded,  it  muir 


ippened  in  Scolluul,  Ibe 
f|u«DaD  HngLuid  appcui  to  hare  lived  occupied 

to  bare  inlsfcred  wllb  Ihe  <riaw  of  Kite,  the 
^>pBn  to  hire  induced  a  pasion  for  Ibe  elegu- 
eiH  aod  aplendoun  DEihe  j^,  u  tbev  were  ihDwn 
in  Ihne  gorgcoua  court  maiqua  wTih  wbich  Ihe 
taile  of  Jamei  hannonited,  eilbcr  from  hli  ■*]- 
■..*  fk..  >«,-  *«.  ^«..*  muques  could  not  acapc 


[uil  or^iliTv  of 
if  hii  pmy,  lad 
,  bui  lika  it.  He 


'  e  ilur  ind  icandil  of  Ihe 

JHdBbiuble'witnest  of  th< 
a  roni  couide.    In  Ihe  n 

EHilton,  hccennirnlhel 

aeieriie  ilhe  imecnj  and  her  bdi 
I'Uj'mphi  or  Keitiiln,  i^pcared 

91  hlmicir  not  being  a  litUe  del«l>tcd  with 

_  iiioiu  thin  Ihe  day.-  Thii  i>  i  direct  pieDf  that 
James  wai  by  no  mum  cold  or  oegligcnl  in  hn 
altenlinni  id  hli  queen  i  and  the  letter  which  ha 
Vcn  given  ii  Ihe  picture  of  bia  mind.  Tbil 
imes  the  Finl  wai  fondly  induli^DI  lo  bii  qoecB. 

II  Ihe  genemmiT  of  piwun,  and  Ibc  ingeoailr  oT 
II  elegant  mini,  1  piniing anecdote  which!  hare 
Ucoiered  in  in  unpubliihed  letter  of  Ihe  day  will 
mw.    I  give  it  in  the  wordi  of  the  wnler. 

•ok  Ker  mirk,  and  Ul!ed  Jruvl,  the  king^'  moK 

icecdinglr  awhile ;  but  alter  he  knew  who  did 
,  he  w»  won  pKihed,  and  wiib  much  kindn^ 
iihed  her  not  w  be  Irouhlcd  wiih  it,  for  he 

ly  lent  her   a  diimoni     wnrlb  Iwo  Ihounnd 


/-• 


i 


THE  MAN  OF  ONE  BOOK. 


501 


THE  MAN  OF  ONB  BOOK. 

Mr.  Maurice,  in  his  animated  memoirs,  has  re- 
ccntly  acquainted  as  with  a  (act  which  may  be 
deemed  imporunt  in  the  life  of  a  literary  man. 
He  tells  OS,  '*  We  have  been  just  informed  that 
Sir  William  Jones  in-variably  read  fhroueh  every 
year  the  works  of  Cicero,  whose  life  indeed  was 
the  great  exemplar  of  his  own."  The  same  pas- 
sion for  the  works  of  Cicero  has  been  participated 
by  others.  When  the  best  means  of  formmg  a 
good  style  were  inquired  of  the  learned  Amauld, 
DC  advised  the  daily  study  of  Cicero ;  but  it  was 
observed  that  the  object  was  not  to  form  a  Latin 
bat  a  French  stvle :  "  In  that  case/'  replied  Amauld, 
••  you  must  still  read  Cicero." 

A  predilection  for  some  great  author,  among  the 
vast  number  which  must  transiently  occupy  our 
attention,  seems  to  be  the  happiest  preservative  for 
onr  taste:  accustomed  to  that  excellent  author 
whom  we  ha%'e  chosen  for  our  favourite,  we  may 
possibly  resemble  him  in  this  intimacv.  It  is  to 
be  feared,  that  if  we  do  not  form  such  a  perma- 
nent attachment,  we  may  be  acquiring  knowledge, 
while  our  enervated  taste  becomes  less  and  less 
hvely.  Taste  embalms  the  knowledge  which 
otherwise  cannot  preserve  itself.  He  who  has 
long  been  intimate  with  one  great  author,  will 
always  be  found  to  be  a  formidable  antagonist ; 
be  bias  saturated  his  mind  with  the  excellencies  of 
genius ;  he  has  shaped  his  faculties  insensibly  to 
himself  by  his  model,  and  he  is  like  a  man  who 
even  sleeps  in  armour,  ready  at  a  moment  I  The 
old  Latin  proverb  reminds  us  of  this  fact,  Ca've 
ab  kominf  uniut  libri :  Be  cautious  of  the  man  of 
one  book. 

Plinv  and  Seneca  give  very  safe  advice  on  read- 
ing; tnat  we  should  read  much,  but  not  many 
books — but  they  had  no  "  monthly  lists  of  new 
publications!"  Since  their  days  others  have  fa- 
voured us  with  "  Methods  of  Study,"  and  "  Cata- 
logues of  Books  to  be  read."  Vain  attempts  to 
circumscribe  that  invisible  circle  of  human  know- 
ledge which  is  perpetually  enlarging  itself  I  The 
multiplicity  of  books  b  an  evil  for  the  many ;  for 
we  now  find  an  helluo  librorum,  not  only  among 
the  learned,  but,  with  their  pardon,  among  the 
unlearned  ;  for  those  who,  e%'en  to  the  prejudice 
of  their  health,  penist  only  in  reading  the  inces- 
sant book-novelties  of  our  own  time,  will  after 
many  years  ac^ui^e  a  sort  of  learned  ignorance. 
We  are  now  in  want  of  an  art  to  teach  how  books 
are  to  be  read,  rather  than  not  to  read  them  :  such 
an  art  b  practicable.  But  amidst  this  vast  multi- 
tude still  let  us  be  "  the  man  of  one  book,"  and 
preserve  an  uninterrupted  intercourse  with  that 
great  author  with  whose  mode  of  thinking  we 
sympathise,  and  whose  charms  of  composition  vre 
can  habituallv  retain. 

It  b  remarkable  that  every  great  writer  appears 
to  have  a  predilection  for  some  favourite  author ; 
and,  with  Alexander,  had  they  possessed  a  eolden 
casket,  would  have  enshrined  the  works  tney  so 
constantly  turned  over.  Demosthenes  felt  such 
delight  in  the  hbtory  of  Thucydides,  that  to  ob- 
tain a  familiar  and  perfect  mastery  of  his  style,  he 
recopied  hb  history  eight  times ;  while  Brutus  not 
only  was  in  a  constant  perusal  of  Polybius  tven 


amidst  the  most  busy  periods  of  his  life,  but  was 
abridging  a  copy  of  that  author  on  the  last  awful 
night  of  his  existence,  when  on  the  following  day 
he  was  to  try  hb  fate  aninst  Antony  and  Octarius. 
Selim  the  Second  had  the  Commentaries  of  Caesar 
translated  for  his  use ;  and  it  is  recorded  that  his 
military  ardour  was  heiehtened  by  the  perusal. 
We  are  told  that  Scipio  Alricanus  was  made  a  hero 
by  the  writings  of  Xenophon.  When  Clarendon 
was  employed  in  writing  hb  history,  he  wu  in  a 
constant  study  of  Livy  and  Tacitus,  to  acquire  the 
full  and  flowing  style  of  the  one,  and  the  por- 
trait-painting ot  the  other :  he  records  this  circum- 
stance in  a  letter.  Voltaire  had  usually  on  hb 
table  the  Athalie  of  Racine,  and  the  Pttu  Carinu 
of  Massillon ;  the  tragedies  of  the  one  were  the 
finest  model  of  French  verse,  the  sermons  of  the 
other  of  French  prose.  "  Were  I  obliged  to  sell 
my  library,"  exclaimed  Diderot,  "  I  would  keep 
back  Moses,  Homer,  and  Richarcbon ;"  and  by  the 
itoge  which  this  enthusiastic  writer  composed  on 
our  English  novelbt,  it  is  doubtful,  had  the  French- 
man been  obliged  to  have  lost  two  of  them,  whether 
Richardson  had  not  been  the  elected  favour- 
ite. Monsieur  Thomas,  a  French  writer,  who  at 
times  displays  high  eloquence  and  profound  think- 
ing, Herault  de  Sechelles  tells  us,  studied  chiefly 
one  author,  but  that  author  was  Cicero ;  and  never 
went  into  the  country  unaccompanied  by  some  of 
his  works.  Fenck>n  was  constantly  employed  on  hb 
Homer ;  he  left  a  translation  of  the  greater  part 
of  the  Odyssey,  without  any  design  of  publication, 
but  merely  as  an  exercise  tor  style.  Montesquieu 
was  a  coantant  student  of  Tacitus,  of  whom  he 
must  be  considered  a  forcible  imitator.  He  has, 
in  the  manner  of  Tacitus,  characterised  Tacitus : 
•*  That  historian,"  he  says,  "  who  abridged  every- 
thing, because  he  saw  everything."  The  famous 
Bourdaloue  reperiised  every  year  Saint  Paul,  Saint 
Chrysostom,  and  Cicero.  "These,"  says  a  French 
critic,  "  were  the  sources  of  his  masculine  and 
solid  eloquence."  Grotius  had  such  a  taste  for 
Lucan,  that  he  alwavs  carried  a  pocket  edition 
about  him,  and  has  been  seen  to  kiss  his  hand- 
book with  the  rapture  of  a  true  votary.  If  this 
anecdote  be  true,  the  elevated  sentiments  of  the 
stem  Roman  were  probably  the  attraction  with 
the  Batavian  republican.  The  diversified  reading 
of  Leibnitz  is  well  known ;  but  he  still  attached 
himself  to  one  or  two  favourites :  Virgil  was  always 
in  his  hand  when  at  leisure,  and  Leibnitz  had 
read  Virgil  so  often,  that  even  in  his  old  age  he 
could  repeat  whole  books  by  heart ;  and  Barclay's 
Argenis  was  hb  model  for  prose.  When  he  was 
found  dead  In  hb  chair,  the  Argenis  had  fallen 
from  hb  hands.  Quevedo  was  so  passionately  fond 
of  the  Don  Quixote  of  Cervantes,  that  often  in 
reading^  that  unrivalled  work  he  felt  an  impulse  to 
bum  his  own  inferior  compositions :  to  be  a  sin- 
cere admirer  and  a  hopeless  rival  is  a  case  of  au- 
thorship the  hardest  imaginable.  Few  writers  can 
venture  to  anticipate  the  award  of  posterity ;  yet 
perhaps  Quevedo  had  not  even  been  what  he  was 
without  the  perpetual  excitement  he  received 
from  his  great  master.  Horace  was  the  friend  of 
hb  heart  to  Malherbe;  he  laid  the  Roman  poet 
on  his  pillow,  took  him  in  the  fields,  and  called 
his  Horace  his  breviary.  Plutarch,  Montaigne,  and 
Locke  were  the  three  authon  coQstaptly  in  the 


A  BtBLIOONOSTE. 


groandwork  of  hb  Hki*  lq  btf  EmiLi?, 
TOuriw  MutboT  of  Ihe  gicat  Eirl  of  Chilti 
BiTTnw ;  on  bli  tlyk  h?  hid  formed  hli  ck 


Tbr  grnl  Lord  Burkigh  ilmyi  earned  TuUy'i 


Ktoai  Mndr  of  Hvnpden  --  he  leemed  to  Kan 
diKot-CRd  Id  (hit  hUloriu  of  cieil  wan  Iho* 
vliieh  he  uniopated  In  Ihe  Jand  of  his  fatheEip 


■bit  of  rnding  hli  CTiccto  Ihrouh  tvtry  yta, 
id  exemplify  (he  happy  letult  for  bim,  vbo» 


day  to  moulder  avay  1 

LHtvn  lo  the  talicinalor  f    "  A*  (onsem 
of  meant  treuuTett  theh  v«lue  in  timet  of 

theie  happieT  data,  wbrn  mna  are  incited  I 

plore  new  irnioni  of  thougbl,  Ihey  torn 

rvtpeci*  at  dEpM>  of  methoillcal  and  well-ordered 

anotber  be  wattblcn ;  and  (be  prsKTm  which  the 
world  baa  made  wllhin  a  very  few  centuriea  baa 
comidcrxbty  reduced  the  caliiiulion  which  ia  due 

mote  Ihau  enouffh  lo  terrifv  the  bihUi4rfj|ihiral 
reader  with  theldeaof  ittikinginwdiM  "ibeHod 


ioundalioa  of  horAl,  thia 


»  Ifae  u 


X  the  ai 


nulllpl^ting 


hooka  haa  been 
bn  atnmpledta  calculate  the  intakulabk  of  theie 
four  aget  of  tt-pflgrapbv,  which  be  diacovera  have 
actually  produced  ifitiflbo  worka  *  Taking  each 
work  at  three  voliuikn,  ahd  mkoninM  only  each 
impKiHiap  lo  convt  of  Ihiec  hundred  cc^es 

pRw.1  of  BorotK  will  gire  to  iKift— ia,ritrfM 

are,  bnwerer,  Indebted  to  the  patriotic  endcivouTa 
of  our  groren  and  tronknuluTs  aicbemim  of 
lllentuTcl  Ihry  aimlhlbte  the  gron  bodlea  with- 
out iojuring  the  Hoer  apirili.    We  are  niU  mure 


>    thit 


,   the   I 


of  Ilune  book'pnctitionen,  the  nature  of  whin 
laboan  ta  yet  ao  imperfectly  compiebended.    On 


»  know  wbo  li  thia 


Jargon  tvbicb  waa  chieny  forged  by  one  who, 
though  aealed  in  "Ibe  >c«iiet'i  cbiir,'  waa  Ibc 
Thaumaturgoi  of  booka  and  manuKripCi-  The 
tbbi  Ui  u  Rivi  bad  acquired  a  aingular  taite  and 
'urianly,  not  without  a  fermenting  duh  of  alngDlar 
'harUlaiitru^  In  hibliognpby  i  Ibe  liltle  eolgmei 
X  DccnionaJly  put  lotlL  arc  Ibinip  which  but  few 


e  occaaion  faTtbcr  to  reveal. 

k-cullcelorv  the  Duke  de  la 
M  waa  a  itronir  but  unnvau- 
ue._nbid.  auili 

e  tiUiuaaifri  and  the 
cat  of  cofitea.  ki  hit  "bulMiK- 
iem,»  the  duke  alfeitionatcly  cabd 
The  "hull-dog"  of  bibhognpfay 
> !.-__  fc*j  -!,_  ._^  ^1^  appetite  « 

■ning  of  bj>  pariah 

aa  ventre  V*    He  had  tried  to  cihaual  hb  geuiua  In 

■H'ii^i.  and  aelnl  Cain  with  hh  bnlhen  I    AB 

remlog  bonk)  and  nanuHript..  Yet  all  h)i  midi^ 
pTomhea  fumed  away  in  pnijecti ;  and  thoudl  he 
appeared  for  ever  correctini;  the  bluodenof  othen, 
thu  PreiKb  Rition  lefl  enough  of  bis  i^ni  Is  allord 
bem  a  choice  of  revenge- 


and   the  gigantic  indn«rr>',  of  uur   tit^wfaaire, 

:  dcacnHioii  wilt  ihow  the  reaikr  to  what  hvd 
itinc  Okic    boiA- humeri  Totontarily   doom 


hnoUnc  i 


a  third  tmnk  was 


Jteraiy  >ketchei  connected  ^i 


respecting  eirthyuaktj,  i-ol 


ikci,  i-olcinocs,  and  geographical 
i-ti  Jlagill\/tr  of  Ihe  bibUopa- 


A  BIBLIOSNOSTE.                                            joj  | 

phlcil  tribe,  who  wu,  u  Mi.  DIbdin  obwrrn. 

The  r«.  ihnugh  carioui,  li  by  no  metni  com- 

hia pitTon."  i»  uid  to  hive  been  in  piivMJe  a  very 

diffcnmi  mm  from  bi>  public  ch.r«1et :  ill  wbicli 

miy  be  true,  without  uiering  >  .hade  of  th.t 

et]  hWory.    A  '■liter  of  thlj  wrt  mu«  occupy 

how  men,  mild  tnd  eren  Und  in  domeiuc  l.le. 

wm  Hnguinuy  uid  (cTockM.  to  Ihcir  public. 

binseir  with  mort  regard  for  hii  lepulallon  than 

Tlie  nbid  Dl  u  Ri*i  gloiicd  in  teiTif)Hng. 

tin  own  prolil,  and  yield  himKlf  up  eotirely  to 

wilhDU.  enll^teulng  hi<  .tv.b  j  he  exulted  th.I 

the  Body  of  booki." 

he  «u  de.otrng  to  "  the  rod.  o(  criticiBn  ind  the 

The  mete  knowledge  of  hoolu,  ahich  ho  twen 

l.ughfrr  or  Burapt  Iht  bMitptlri"  or  dalen  In 
bouki,  who  would  not  get  by  hein  fiii "  Cunhtim" 

edition!,  who  force  [heir  panige  through  Kcluded 

Ibund  thai  lire  wu  ilrudy  Mu  itaoR  for  hi>  own 

.pota,  a.  well  a>  cnuiae  In  uiTopen  Mid.,  il  will 

be  found  that  thi)  an  of  book -k now ledee  may 

DI  u  RiTi  had  CDOtriTrd  la  cilch  the  ihadn  of 

hjm  out  to  be  a  reryphilowDhTcal  puKuil,  and 
that  men  of  great  nime  have  devotedT  themj.1vet 

imateura  i  ind  of  Uu  firM  Icrm  he  l>  acknowledged 

to  liboun,  more  freouenili  conlenined  than  com- 

Inlitk-pagaandcolDphoni.and  inedltiou!  Ox 

place  ud  rear  whn  printed  :  the  prens  whence 

whn.  hImKir  ID  eminent  pielate,  had  paxed  hh 
life  In  forming  hii  BMmluca  tltimtii.    ZiNodId 

■a.ued  !  and  all  the  nlniilLr  of  a  book. 

A  trWuT"!^  o  •  docriber  of  bookt  uuJ  other 

not  contiJer  Ihit  to  eorrec*  errori  and  lo  enrich 
by  inEormalloa  Ihia  catalogue  e(  Italian  writen 

who  Wundeta  fajm  than  he  buya,  cack-brKoed, 

— "  He  chained  together  the  knowledge  of  whole 

generaliona  for  pOMelity,  and  he  read  in  future 

plea.ure. 

A  MlMapMi  trariei  hii  bo(*i,  by  keeping  them 

There  are  few  lhing<  by  which  we  can  »  well 

trace  the  hnlory  of  the  human  m.nd  u  hy  a 

clMKd  catalogue,  with  dalei  of  the  tint  publica- 
tion of  booki  J  even  the  reluive  pnces  of  hooki  at 

diflcrent  pcikKK  their  decUneand  then  their  riv. 

■Bd  again  their  fall,  form  a  chapter  in  thii  hi^ory 

of  the  human  mind  i  we  become  critica  eren  hy 

is;s.-sr,sr£!x™s".": 

hilalion,  or  to  pnscrvE  for  our  poucrity  Ibret 

bS.T'Seu^'i.'^ndNTrn'SSit^.^rnr 

cerlain  picture  of  Ibe  people.    The  gradual  de- 

preciation of  1  great  author  mirki  a  change  in 

the  hiitoiy  of  indifferent  wnten,  and  icarctly  in 

oiiglnalj  dwuld  claim  our  attention,  in  the  coune 

inch  calalogna  ihaU  be  fully  loipmnl  by  the 

of  two  iboiuand  yean  we  ihould  not  count  twenty 
(uthon)    Brery  (wok,  whateter  be  itt  character. 

hi  the  mo<t  dBUnI  .go  of  the  fulu™  the  literary 

good  uid  evil  whtch  tbey  miy  product,  force  ■ 

MuRipb  from  the  putt  derollon  to  truth,  in  iplte 

Boit  Of  individual  lepresenlalion.   not   a  •nlilarr 

Tolume  «iiiti  but  may  be  penonilieil,  and  de- 

to  thl>  purwlt,  with  a  pwion  whidi  re«mbkt 

Ulll  OUDW— L«  LOKO— Onujn— WOLrlua— IiiKN 

heronm. 

hiSoTical.  and  clashed  aifuunU  nf  wTtlen]  have 

«a— HcHiucmim— Lixnaua— 9«oui  m— H  .  ti-i  ■ 

Cll  crron.  which  have  ipliad  their  n»u,  in  glutei 
or  leHqujn1iiiet,ioallour  Wbliognphen."    He 

— Fu«eciD»— sen  iLHaaK— Eiion.1— BiTi«— Gn- 

In  the  note.- 

OHiua— voon  PaiyiAO— Divio  CLmawr— c»i- 
•iLLiu— MaiTTAiu— OnUNDi  —  rwirin  Moil- 

CHAND— iCHOirilJ.— Di    loii— Abb«    S.LUm— 
indDltAiHT  LIOH. 

504 


SECRET  HISTORY  OF  AN  ELECTIVE  MONARCHY. 


scribed  as  a  human  being.  Hints  start  discoveries : 
they  are  usually  found  in  very  difiierent  authors 
who  could  so  no  further;  and  the  historian  of 
obscure  boou   is  often  preserving  for   men  of 

genius  indications  of  knowledge,  which,  without 
is  intervention,  we  should  not  possess!  Many 
secrets  we  discover  in  bibliography.  Great  writers, 
unskilled  in  this  science  of  Dooks,  have  frequently 
used  defective  editions,  as  Hume  did  the  castrated 
Whitelocke ;  or  like  Robertson,  they  are  ignorant 
of  even  the  sources  of  the  knowledge  they  would 
give  the  public ;  or  they  compose  on  a  subject 
which  too  late  they  discover  had  been  anticipated. 
Bibliography  will  show  what  has  been  done,  and 
suggest  to  our  invention  what  is  wanted.  Many 
have  oflen  protracted  their  journey  in  a  road 
which  had  already  been  worn  out  by  the  wheels 
which  had  tra%-crsed  it :  bibliography  unrolls  the 
whole  map  of  the  country  we  purpose  travelling 
over — the  pos^roads,  and  the  by>paths. 

Every  half-century,  indeed,  the  obstructions 
multiply ;  and  the  Edinburgh  prediction,  should 
it  approximate  to  the  event  it  has  foreseen,  may 
more  reasonably  terrify  a  far-distant  posterity. 
Mazzuchelli  declared  after  his  laborious  researches 
in  Italian  literature,  that  one  of  his  more  recent 
predecessors,  who  had  commenced  a  nmilar  work, 
had  collected  notices  of  forty  thousand  writers — 
and  vet,  he  adds,  my  work  must  increase  that 
number  to  ten  thousand  more  I  Mazzuchelli 
said  this  in  1753  ;  and  the  amount  of  a  century 
must  now  be  added,  for  the  presses  of  Italy  have 
not  been  inactive.  But  the  literature  of  Germany, 
of  France,  and  of  England,  has  exceeded  the 
multiplici^  of  the  productions  of  Italv,  and  an 
appalling  population  of  authon  swarm  f)cfore  the 
imagination.  Hail  then  the  peaceful  spint  of  the 
literary  historian,  which  trims  the  sepulchral  lamps 
of  the  human  mind  I  Hail  to  the  literary  Reaumur, 
who  makes  even  the  minute  interesting,  and,  pro- 
vided his  glasses  be  true,  will  open  to  us  the  world 
of  insects!  These  are  guardian  spirits,  who  at  the 
close  of  every  century  standing  on  its  ascent,  trace 
out  the  old  roads  we  had  pursued,  and  with  a 
lighter  line  indicate  the  new  ones  which  are  open- 
ing, from  the  imperfect  attempts,  and  even  the 
errors  of  our  predeccsson ! 


SECRET  HISTORY  OF  AN  ELECTIVB 
MONARCHY. 

A    POLITICAL   SKETCH. 

Poland,  once  a  potent  and  ma^ificent  king- 
dom, when  it  sunk  into  an  elective  monarchy, 
became  "venal  thrice  an  age."  That  country 
must  have  exhibited  many  a  diplomatic  scene  of 
intricate  intrigue,  which  although  they  could  not 
appear  in  its  public,  have  no  doubt  been  often 
consigned  to  its  secret  history.  With  us  the  cor- 
ruption of  a  rotten  borough  has  sometimes  exposed 
the  guarded  proffer  of  one  party,  and  the  dexterous 
chaffering  of  the  other :  but  a  masterpiece  of  diplo- 
matic finesse  and  political  invention,  electioneer- 
ing viewed  on  the  most  magnificent  scale,  with  a 
kingdom  to  canvass  for  votes,  and  a  crown  to  be 
won  and  lost,  or.  lost  and  won  in  the  course  of  a 
single  day,  exhibits  a  political  drama,  which,  for 


the  honour  and  happiness  of  muikind,  b  of  rare 
and  strange  occurrence.  There  was  one  scene  in 
this  drama,  which  might  appear  somewhat  too 
large  for  an  ordinary  theatre ;  the  sctois  apparently 
were  not  less  than  fifty  to  a  hundred  tDonsand; 
twelve  vast  tents  were  raised  on  an  extcnnve  ^ain, 
a  hundred  thousand  horses  were  in  the  enviroos— 
and  palatines  and  castellans,  the  ecclesiastical 
orders,  with  the  ambassadors  of  the  royal  compe- 
titors, all  agitated  by  the  ceaseless  motion  of  af- 
ferent factions  during  the  six  weeks  of  the  elec- 
tion, and  of  many  preceding  months  of  precon- 
certed measures  and  vacillating  opinions,  now 
were  all  solemnly  assembled  at  the  diet. — Once 
the  poet,  amidst  his  gi^ntic  conception  of  a  scene, 
resolved  to  leave  it  out ; 

"  So  vast  a  throng  the  stage  can  ne'er  contain- 
Then  build  a  new,  or  act  it  in  a  plMn  !" 

exclaimed  "  La  Mancha's  knight,"  kindling  at  a 
scene  so  novel  and  so  vast  I 

Such  an  electioneering  negotiatioo,  the  only 
one  I  am  acquainted  with,  is  opened  in  the 
**  Discours"  of  Choisnin,  the  secretarv  of  Montluc, 
bishop  of  Valence,  the  confidential  agent  of 
Catharine  de  Medicis,  and  who  was  sent  to  in- 
trigue at  the  Polish  <Uet,  to  obtain  the  crown  of 
Poland  for  her  son  the  Duke  of  Aniou,  afterwards 
Henry  H.  This  bold  enterprise  at  the  first  seemed 
ho[>cless,  and  in  its  progress  encountered  erowing 
obstructions ;  but  Montluc  was  one  of  the  most 
finished  diplomatists  the  genius  of  the  Gallic 
cabinet  ever  sent  forth.  He  was  nicknan»ed  in 
all  the  courts  of  Europe,  from  the  circumstance  of 
his  limping,  *'Ie  Boiteux;"  our  political  bishop 
was  in  cabinet  intngues  the  Talleyrand  of  his  age, 
and  sixteen  embassies  in  Italy,  Germany,  England, 
Scotland,  and  Constantinople,  had  niade  this 
"Connoisseur  en  hommcs"  an  extraordinary 
politician  1 

Catharine  de  Medicis  was  infatuated  with  the 
dreams  of  judicial  astrology  :  her  pensioned  oracles 
had  declared  that  she  should  live  to  sec  each  of 
her  sons  crowned,  by  which  prediction  probably 
they  had  only  purposed  to  flatter  her  pride  and  her 
love  of  dominion.  They,  howe\'cr,  ended  in  ter- 
rifying the  credulous  queen ;  and  she,  dreading  to 
witness  a  disputed  throne  in  France,  among  fratri- 
cides, anxiously  sought  for  a  separate  crown  for 
her  three  sons.  She  had  been  trifled  with  in  her 
earnest  negotiations  with  our  Elizabeth ;  twice 
had  she  seen  herself  baffled  in  her  views  in  tiie 
Dukes  of  Alen^on  and  of  Anjou.  Catharine  then 
projected  a  new  empire  for  Anjou,  by  incorporating 
into  one  kingdom  Algiers,  Corsica,  and  Sardinia ; 
but  the  other  despot,  he  of  Constantinople, 
Selim  tl.,  dissipated  tfc^  briOiant  speculation  of 
our  female  Machiavel.  Charles  IX.  was  sickly, 
jealous,  and  desirous  of  removing  from  the  court 
the  Duke  of  Anjou,  whom  two  victories  had  made  • 
popular,  though  he  afterwardi  sunk  into  a  Sarda- 
napalus.  Montluc  penetrated  into  the  secret 
wishes  of  Catharine  and  Charles,  and  suggested  to 
them  the  possibility  that  the  diadem  of  Poland 
might  encircle  the  brows  of  Anjou,  the  Polish 
monarch  being  in  a  state  of  visible  decline.  The 
project  was  approved ;  and  like  a  profound  politi- 
cian, the  bishop  prepared  for  an  event  which 
might  be  remote,  and  always  problematical,  by 


SECSET  BISTORT  OF  AS  ELECTIVE  MONARCRr.               jos  ] 

•ending  Into  Polind  .  i»tur.t  »n  of  h^  B.l.gnv, 

ute  «rT«  :  u.d  the  olber.  nn  home,  nol  Imigln- 

lltd  hi>  krve  dT  ptcuure,  would  not  cnite  iny 

ing  thit  Monlluc  would  «nlure  to  pui  thtmigh 

mide  the  roidi  loo  hot  for  i  Cilbolic  bohop. 

Hike  on  Ibewlch  la  ni.Krh  the  eipecled  q»ili 

ButMontluchidKtbiscuton  Ihedie.    He  hid 

lireidy  pined  ihroi^  sevcnl  hilrbreidth  cicapcs 

nil  •eoetuv  Chtriinin  u  i  tnvelUnc  tutor  to  i 

from  Ihe  Hntigemt  of  the  Culte  fiction,  who 

Wihop,  whom  they  crf^  out  wu  i^Cilviniit ;  Ihe 

BiUany  proceeded  to  Pobind,  where,  under  Ihe 
Tell  DTdiHipitioii.  ind  in  Ihe  muW  of  n^endid 

fan  vulieiloUHfi  of  the  Ooiic  hid  been  rouxd 

by  IhH polltlcil  mitiion.    AmongDIthetetroublei 

fcstititici,  ¥rtth  hii   truity  idiuunl,  Ihii   huv- 

hnlned  b«  of  wehv  begui    >o  wente   lbo« 
inttiguo  which  MTE  iherwirdl  lo  be  kncKlcd.  or 

rumour  tbil  Ihe  election  wu  on  Ihe  pmnt  of 

being   mide.  and  Ibil  Ihe   pligue  wu  unlierul 

untied,  by  Montluc  himwif.    He  bul  contrived  to 

throughout  Pound)  »  Ihit  he  muti  hi>e  fell 

he  u  Utile  MjpecMd,  thmt  the  Mgenl  or  the  em- 

thii be  might  be  too  U«  lor  the  one.  md  loo  eirly 

peror  hid  often  diKkned  importinl  Koeu  lo  hi. 

vpunR   UHl   »»i>bk  .ftiend.      On   the    de.lh   pt 

beliind  to  trumpel  (onh  the  viitue)  of  Aniou, 

■n^  ihonldcn  i  ind  further,  thil  h»  wjt  to  ileep 

hmcned  lo  P.rU  to  kim  m  .ccouni  of  lU  which 
he  bad  seen  or  heirS.    But  poor  Choonin  found 

every  nighl  on  i  pillow  of  Ihonn.     Our  bitbop 
hid  not  only  lo  ilfiy  Ihe  ferment  of  the  popuUr 

then  ctUcd.  but  even  of  the  more  rilionil  Olho- 

long  liMened  lo  hii  pioegyrict  on  Ihe  huminity 
■■uTmeekneia  of  thaactcr  nf  Ihe  Duke  of  Anjou ; 

for  the  news  of  St.  Butholomew'i  muucrt  bid 

K™n?fhe''Aenfb  ™c7^'V'Tr;^er!'"i^?r'n 

whw  ■Towtd  principle  wu,  ind  ntiny  were  in- 

reguUtrf  ■olely  by  the  public  intctni ;  ind  It  wu 
iazHj  to  be  expected  ihit  Ihe  emperor,  the  ctir. 

effiKD  of  1  few  priiite  eumilio.  pnyins  the  in- 
digninl  Polei  to  uupeml  their  d«i*ion  tiU  the 

rivah  lo  Ihe  cruel,  ind  voluptuoui,  ind  bigoted 

Duke  of  Anjou.  wbOK  poUbcil  inleioti  were  too 

remote  ind  novel  to  hive  nited  iny  liclioo  imong 

penon  for  thi.  embwy  bid  been  diaiCDli  to  leRle. 

'   Thi  cnfty  Siticiin  hid  Ihe  irt  of  dretnng 
hinuelfupiniU  Ihe  winning  cbarmi  of  cindnur 
•ud  Inyiliy  j  1  tweet  flow  of  Imnied  word,  melted 

It  wit  1  bu»De»  of  tnlrlgue.  more  thin  of  form. 

ind  re<]ulred  m  oritur  u  nuke  neehn  ind  id- 

u  I'rocEfttond  uncbingcd  imiitil  the  mnt^un- 

lhTS<l^',"'deed,11Sdi[o'^'^'in  the  Dirt, 
yel  tU  grc.lir  uid  Ihe  kBer  noblei  ind  gentle- 

men, 111  eiecton.  »ere  reckoned  >t  one  hSndred 

Ihouuml.    It  wai  luppwed.  Ihil  •  liwyer  who 

1  ion  of  imhigumu  chinctcr,  in  envoy  for  Ibe 

coDid  negotine  in  good  Lilln,  ind  one,  u  Ihe 

French  proretb  rung,  who  could  dJbr  rr  parlir. 

would  more  dlectuillr  puiiM  IbeIr  hculi.  ind 

<ider.t»e  influence  among  the  Liiboin.iu..  Ihe 

Hiitfy  Iheir  conxienco  to  rote    for  hit  client. 

Willicbuni.  and  neirly  ill  PtHMi,  in  livour  of  the 
Archduke  Bmat.     Two  Bohemiim.  who    hid 

Cithirine  M  KM  find  on  Hontlw:  himielf.  from 

the  KWiolige  of  ipeaking  Ibe  Poli.h  UnguiBc. 

ihii  ciK  iccorded  with  phlMtophicil  eipetiencc, 
thil "  MoBtluc  h«l  erer  been  lain  in  hH  ncgo- 

Pirii ;  ind  it   ippein  Ihit  our  politicil  bUhop 

bad  arrived  with  i  tlite  ind  mign.hcenec  is  if 

they  h»]  come  u  kinp  rilhei  Ihin  u  imbuHdon. 

The  MuKovlte  hid  written  lellen  lull  of  golden 

iween  two  luch  greit  neighbmm  wu  too  mvit.ng 

occurred  very  ihortly  ifter  he  hid  left  ll ;  lor  he 
hid  wiTOed  1^  Count  of  kochefouoult  to  ibicBt 

a  pndecl  nol  lo  lind  idvocatei,  ind  Ihi.  pirly. 

a»i>nin  ob«r«».  appeared  it  Sr«  the  moM  to  he 
Feiled.    The  King  of  Sweden  wu  1  cloK  neigh- 

hinuclfi  hot  Ihii  lord,  like  to  miny  olben,  hid 

ind  her  cibinet.      Monlluc,  however,  bid  not 

leign.   md   hii   ion    urged   bit    family   cliimt    it 
luperior    lo  tboK  of  ftKeigncn.     Amonj^  Ihejt 

Ions  been  on  hii  journey,  ere  the  newi  niched 

him.  and  It  uccuioned  iunumerible  Dbwicls  in 

piniet  wu  1  purioBc  one,  who  were  detimut  o(  i 

hi<  progre«.  which  eten  bit   ugitlty  h«l  not 

meet  with  loine  iblc  coidiuton.  imong  whom 

land,  q)eiking    Iheir    mother-longue,  one   whn 

wu  the  fimout  Jmeph  SciUger  j  bnl  they  were  » 

Hew  ID  Genevi,  ind  woulil  not  budRC  out  of  tEu 

■tnuger.    Thl.  popular  piny  wu  even  igreeibk 

SECRET  BISTO&r  OF  AN  ELECTIVE  MONAKCUY. 


there  were  it  lent  thirtt-  Idnb  *ba  cquiU^-  thought 

□li^I  be  cuted  out.  The  hilet  Ihcrcfore  couU 
D0<  igTee  on  the  Pole  wbo  dcerved  lo  b«  i 
PiaMi  u  cibdariikg  title  Ibr  a  lutiie  iBooircba 
wbich  origiiHUd  in  Ibe  Dime  o(  the  bmUy  eC  Ibe 
nwb,  iAd  hid  lelmd  hi^rily  over  the  FoUih 
pmplcbrtbe^accMBTetcDtuTkil  Theranem- 

"       "     ■  tlUe,ind  their  putf 


Kontluc  bid  been  deprived  of  the  untince  1 
lud  depended  on  from  nuoy  ib>e  penow,  •^m 
tb?  m^MCre  or  St.  Birtholotncw  hjd  frighten* 

fouiM  thdt  he  bad  himxlf  only  to  depend  o 
We  ve  (uld  (hat  he  wn  iKit  provided  «itb  II 

ID  e]ec1iopi»  Twr  ponewed  the  inlerett  nor  II 
upleiuknir  of  bin  pcfwcrfnl  CDmpelilDn :  be  wk 

file  vanDn  ltnbiKuh>n  bul  hied  and  diilA: 
■rndences  Ihil  tbev  mii^t  not  IhAI  trio  ctow  i 
inlertoune  with  the  PDliA  nuMci.  uf  M  attrt 
he  wudeuiw  (o  ohUin  in  exy  icctw  to  tlie 
ehieN  ilut  he  might  ohKFve,  ind  ib^  iher  ni^ 
Ibten.  He  vbowouhl  seduce  by  hbovnlngenui 


corrupt.  Yet  Hmilluc  peiwted  in  not  ipproich' 
ing  them  vithout  beiDg  aonght  iftet,  which 
ImwTied  hb  purpoK  it  the  end.  One  fAt-nonle 
ugufnent  whieh  our  Tjlln-nnd  hid  mt  ifloat. 
irai  to  show  tbil  ill  the  bcneliti  vhich  the  dif- 
ferent  mmpetitDn  hid  pniiniied  tn  Ibe  Pola  were 

not  bn  Id  be  ruinoiu  ID  the  eannlry ;  w> 

eould  not  be  idvene  Id  thovDf  the  ^Uib  i 
« tbil  much  good  might  be  expected  froi 
without  iny  feir  of  iccompjqyiiig  ciil.  U 
procured  i  clever  Frvbchmin  lu  be  Ibe  be 
bii  lint  dspitch,  in  Lilin,  to  the  diet ;  vbi 
hirdlv  asientblcd  ere  HUpiciom  indjuUiuiii 
ilreuy  breiking  out.  The  emperor^  imbj 
hid  DtTended  Itie  pride  of  the  ^li%b  not 
luvelling  iboul  the  rDunlry  uilbmil  leir 


le  the  letter  of  the  FrencI 


rir  proud  ^riti,  ind  two  thouund  coihh  of  thi 

men  biiho^'i  letter  were  euerly  ipreid. 

'  Bui  Ihil  good  frirlune  did  not  lut  more  tbll 


lod  be  ■draitl)^ 


hive  cmt  Ibe  good  bishop  inrat  ini'cntjOQ  j  but  in 

ind  Althnugh  Monrlnc  wjt  in  due  time  tritterhr 
lecTiminaied  oni  iliU  Ibe  upology  icTTed  lo  divide 


c£ir  oppoicd  Ibe  Turk ;  the  Muicovile  could  not 
rndnre  thit  Sweden  ihould  be  aggrjiuUfed  bv 

anevy.    Moniluc  bid  dlicm'ereil  how  every  put* 

mini^.    The  cirJi  hid  now  got  (ilrly  Auffled, 
■nd  be  depended  on  hia  luujil  gnxl  pliv . 
Our  bi^bop  gol  bold  of  i  pililine  to  write  Irir 


having  cnoincted  certain  engiaMnenli  wilh  Ibe 
Cat;  Ukw  in  reluni  uruwd  the  Met,  ind 
pirticularlv  tldi  Laikv.  with  being  corrupted  1^ 
the  gnld  lA  Prance.  'Another  cirrunutmre  ilter- 
wirdi  iroK  i  the  j^ni>h  ambaaudur  had  IDity 

p»ed  the  fmnlieri,  as  Ibii  (rnb  undy  irrirol 
too  lite  tor  the  election.  "  1  believct"  vritc*  our 
Kcreiarv  with  great  limplh-iiv, "  Ibal  Ibis  mone^r 
wu  only  deigned  to  dinribute  among  Ibe  mol- 


R  of  tbe  ni 


prncceding  iDioothly. 


'  spread  Ihal  the  French 


now    torced  pauenliy  t< 


SECRET  HISTORY  OF  AN  ELECTIVE  MOSASCRT. 


A  grcjl  odium  wu  CB1  on  Ihc  Fmhzh  in  tbjE 
coiine  of  thii  Degorii1»D  by  jt  dlMribudoa  of 

prictixd  by  the  Catholici  on  the  rdbrmcd ;  uch 

ina  to  snitch  thnr  chiUlrcn  inm  their  buccbcn  i 
while  Cbirls  Ihe  Ninth,  (nil  the  Duke  of  Anion, 
wen  h]dcoiuly  npToeDted  in  Ihelr  penoH»ud 
■I  iFCCUIori «  inch  bomd  tngcdje**  with  wonb 
written  Id  Labels,  com  pluniiwrbKt  the  cjRculioDcn 
were  Dol  zdout  enough  in  tbit  boly  work'  These 
priata,  tccDmpjninl  by  libeJi  ind  bj-  horrtii  nim- 
tives,  inflimea  the  popuUr  indi|fn«tion,  ind  more 

teira, u  irtbete  tunid scenes  wen  puHiits before 


il  the  It  ins  ind  the  dt 


eigrrly  seized  tha  (svoursble  o 


These  PoLshsIili 


[iTQve  ihjt  it  WM  the  interest  of  ihe  counOj  thi 
Ihc  duke  ought  to  be  elected  Ihcir  king,  it  »• 

would  be  no  resson  to  prercnl  bit  election,  lor  wi 
hsve  nothina  to  drctd  from  it :  once  in  oar  kin^ 


Ttttempt^ur  lires,  our  pTDpcTt)', 


Another  Folish  Ic 


tioned  Ood,  whom  til  pulles  ought 


;;"{£ 


?1f  unenpectedly  cmbsrnneil   it   the  reliaious 
:nipki  ol  thU  lord,  but  the  poliliciui  wis  never 

his  lordship  wh/'  replied  the  French  bishop,  **  it 
wu  no(  nr  bim  to  remind  hit  tordship  what  he 

dctiroui  of  hiiing  i  pHyiiciin,  Ihe  Iriend 

judgmeoi.    By  i  parity  of  reason  we  must  iielieve 
that  Ood  will  not  tend  an  angel  to  point  onE  the 

lol  us  thai  God  has  given  us  a  knowledee  of  the 
requisites  of  1  good  king;  and  if  the  Poll  Ji  gentk- 


nobiiiry  only,  they   consctiiiently  olhindcd   (he 


government,   where   thote   who    poamsLd    [he 

the  ulnHMl  if  uency,  and  the  most  pertinent  srgu- 

point  he  wished.    The  Prvnch  bi»hop  dtrpcnded 
gnatly  on  Ihc  effect  which  his  oiation  was  Ii> 


cult  necniiii 


soa 


SECRET  BISTORT  OF  AN  ELECTIVE  MOSAJtCBT. 


or  comlcinefl  br  in;  hul  bu  pourimuiBi  ind  In 
lune  of  Ukk  «<  monUn  had  wntnn  irn 

xfon  (be  HKOibkd  clecton,  uid    Ibiny- 


gTutly  (o  bii  AdJiw  Influencing  the  muUituile, 
regretted  to  lind  ttiu  tbe  impeiul  tmlwudcn 


Lilin  Iru 

KCDDdlv,  u>  print  in  edition 

tut  BdvjmtaKe  nx-er  the  otbr 
tbeir  Ihiny-Iwo  muiUACTrpI  ropics  orwbich  cub 
copy  wu  luei]  to  be  reul  lo  iko  per30iH.  Tbe 
greil  difficulty  was  lo  get  It  vecrclly  tran^aled 
and  printed,     Tbii  Tell  to  tbe  miajgemcnt  oi 

of  the  |iala(ine,  $aJikot4ki»  wbo  was  deep  in  lb< 
Pnmcb  inlemi ;  Solilcotski  despalcbcd  the  vet^ 
tion  ID  HI  dan.     Hasicning  widi  tbe  precinui 


heard)  be  luddenlj  feU  lick;  Tor  tbe  fad  wai 

him  tbe  advantage  of  replying  to  unr  objectio 
raited  by  ha  tivaJi,  and  Mmit  alio  of  In  atlac 

copiei  of  their  birangnef,  and  dhcorered   lire 


rbrni  Til  wpponed  by  a  single  mast,  and  vi 


I  tbe  archbinhop  and  (he  biihops,  the  palatines  tb< 
I  tbe  ua  weeks  or  Ihc  siltingi  of  the  diet,  iDO,OA 


and  ever 

oratiot 

warm,  Kirely  Che  d 

ke  had  been 

boKn  witbout 

;,w.ii.:s 

SSl^ 

.««b,  hy  which  c 

",i.rs-£ 

hoDea  Choi>nin  ;  ' 

bul  t 

rue  His 

batsjdor  spoke,  Ibe  great  teal  (ell  half  way  down. 

fo  COT  cause  i  »t  many  of  (he  uotiles  and  Rmrry 
uoled  ihii  cuhoui  p4rtic4l3Tlt>',  because  wbeb  a 
thing  which  does  nnf  commonly  happen  occun  in 
a  public  adair,  such  appeannc^give  rise  to  bopca 

The  Hni^ng  of  Ibis  lirk  in  fivnur  nf  (he  Duke 

of  the  other  French  agent,  the  political  biuop  of 
Valence,  who  now  reaped  ihe  full  advantage  of 
his  1  joe  cof^es  orcr  tbe  thirty-two  of  his  Titah. 


The  period  from  the  loth  of  April  (a  the  6th  of 
Mav,  sriien  (bey  proceeded  to  tbe  ekction.  proved 
to  be  an  Interval  ot  iahnice  perpleinCies,  tnmbka, 
and  acili'lty ;  it  Is  pmbable  ihat  (he  Kcrei  bittotT 

ortbisperlodofthcfiegaciatloniwasneTer  vrinen. 
The  other  ambaaaidon  were  for  protracting  the 

be    not  being  »  well  provided  with  fricnda  ud 

opinion  which  he  badnacceeded  In  creating,  by 
•me  unloreieen  circumstance  miKhl  change. 

He  gut  nd  of  a  forrnldable  adverury  in  the  Cu- 

*  Out  honest  iecTe(ary  reminds  me  of  a  uHage 
in  Oeolfroyof  Hoununilh,  whoaava,  "  a(  this  place 
an  i^U  ipctt  while  (be  w^all  ot  the  (owu   waa 


rf 


SECRET  HIS  TORY  OF  AN  ELECTIVE  MONARCHY. 


509 


dinal  Commendon,  an  agent  of  the  pope's,  whom 
he  proved  ought  not  to  be  present  at  the  election, 
and  the  cardinal  was  ordered  to  take  his  departure. 
A  bullying  colonel  was  set  upon  the  French  nego- 
tiator, and  went  about  from  tent  to  tent  with  a 
list  of  the  debts  of  the  Duke  of  Anjou,  to  show 
that  the  nation  could  expect  nothing  profitable 
from  the  ruined  spendthrift.  The  page  of  a  Polish 
count  flew  to  Montluc  for  protection,  entreating 
permission  to  accompany  the  bishop  on  his  return 
to  Paris.  Tlie  ser\'ants  of  the  count  pursued  the 
page ;  but  this  young  gentleman  had  so  insinuated 
himself  into  the  favour  of  the  bishop,  that  he  was 
suffered  to  remain.  The  next  day  the  page  de- 
sired  Montluc  would  grant  him  the  full  liberty  of 
his  religion,  being  an  Brangelist,  that  he  might 
communicate  this  to  his  friends,  and  thns  fix 
them  to  the  French  party.  Montluc  was  too 
penetrating  for  this  young'political  agent,  whom 
he  discovered  to  be  a  spy,  and  the  pursuit  of  his 
fellows  to  have  been  a  farce :  be  sent  the  page 
back  to  his  master,  the  evangelical  count,  observ- 
ing, that  such  tricks  were  too  gross  to  be  played 
on  one  who  had  managed  affairs  in  all  the  courts 
of  Europe  before  he  came  into  Poland. 

Another  alarm  was  raised  by  a  letter  from  the 
grand  vizier  of  Selim  II.,  addressed  to  the  diet,  in 
which  he  requested  that  they  would  cither  choose  a 
king  from  among  themselves,  or  elect  the  brother 
of  the  king  of  France.  Some  zealous  Frenchman 
at  the  Sublime  Porte  had  officiously  procured  this 
recommendation  from  the  enemy  of  Christianity; 
but  an  alliance  with  Mahometanism  did  no  service 
to  Montluc,  either  with  the  Catholics  or  the  Evan- 
gelists. The  bishop  was  in  despair,  and  thought 
that  his  handiwork  of  six  months'  toil  and  trouble 
was  to  be  shook  into  pieces  in  an  hour.  Montluc 
being  shown  the  letter,  instantly  insisted  that  it 
was  a  torwayt  designed  to  iniure  his  master  the 
duke.  The  letter  was  attended  by  some  suspi- 
cious circumstances ;  and  the  French  bishop,  ouick 
at  expedients,  snatched  at  an  advantage  which  the 
politician  knows  how  to  lay  hold  of  in  the  chapter 
of  accidents.  "The  letter  was  not  scaled  with 
the  golden  seal,  nor  enclosed  in  a  silken  purse  or 
cloth  of  gold ;  and  fafther,  if  thev  examined  the 
translation,"  he  said,  *'  they  would  find  that  it  was 
not  written  on  Turkish  paper."  This  was  a  piece 
of  the  suur's  good  fortune,  for  the  letter  was  not 
forged ;  but  owin^  to  the  circumstance  that  the 
boyar  of  Wallachia  had  taken  out  the  letter,  to 
send  a  translation  with  it  which  the  vizier  had 
omitted,  it  arrived  without  its  usual  accompani- 
ments; and  the  courier,  when  inquired  after,  was 
kept  out  of  the  way  :  so  that,  in  a  few  days,  no- 
thing more  was  heard  of  the  great  vizier's  letter. 
"  Such  was  our  fortunate  escape,"  says  the  secre- 
tary, "  fix>m  the  friendly  but  fatal  interference  of 
the  sultan,  than  which  the  timr  dreaded  nothing 
so  much." 

Many  secret  agents  of  the  different  powers  were 
spinning  their  dark  intrigues ;  and  often,  when  dis- 
covered or  disconcerted,  the  creatures  were  again 
at  their  **  dirty  work."  These  agents  were  con- 
veniently disavowed  or  acknowledged  by  their 
employers.  The  Abbe  Cyre  was  an  active  agent 
of  the  emperor's,  and  though  not  publicly  ac- 
credited, was  still  hovering  about.  In  Lithuania 
he  had  contrived  matters  so  well  as  to  hare  gained 


over  that  important  province  for  the  archduke ; 
and  was  passing  through  Prussia  to  hasten  to  com- 
municate with  the  emperor,  but  '*some  honest 
men,*  quelquet  bom  pertonaget,  says  the  French 
secretary,  and,  no  doubt,  some  gooo  friends  of  his 
master,  *'  took  him  by  surprise,  and  laid  him  up 
safely  in  the  castle  of  Manemburgh,  where  truly 
he  was  a  little  uncivilly  used  by  the  soldiers,  who 
rifled  his  portmanteau  and  sent  us  his  papers, 
when  we  discovered  all  his  foul  practices.'  Tlie 
emperor,  it  seems,  was  angry  at  the  arrest  of  his 
secret  agent ;  but  as  no  one  nad  the  power  of  re- 
leasing the  Abbe  Cyre  at  that  moment,  what  with 
receivmg  remonstrances  and  furnishing  replies, 
the  time  passed  away,  and  a  very  troublesome 
adversary  was  in  safe  custody  during  the  election. 
The  dissensions  between  tne  Catholics  and  the 
Evangelists  were  always  on  the  point  of  breaking 
out ;  out  Montluc  succeeded  in  quieting  these  in- 
veterate parties  by  terrifying  their  imaginations 
with  sanguinary  civil  wars,  and  invasions  of  the 
Turks  and  the  Tartan.  He  satisfied  the  Catholics 
with  the  hope  that  time  would  put  an  end  to 
heresy,  and  tne  Evangelists  were  glad  to  obtain  a 
truce  from  persecution.  •  The  day  oefore  the  ele< 
tion  Montluc  found  himself  so  confident,  that  he 
despatched  a  courier  to  the  French  court,  and  ex- 
pressed himself  in  the  true  style  of  a  speculative 
politician,  that  det  douxt  tabUt  du  Damur  nous  en 
avions  let  Neufs  assuret. 

There  were  preludes  to  the  election :  and  the 
first  was  probably  in  acquiescence  with  a  satur- 
nalian  humour  prevalent  in  some  countries,  where 
the  lower  orders  are  only  allowed  to  indulge  their 
taste  for  the  mockery  01  the  great  at  stated  times 
and  on  fixed  occasions.  A  droll  scene  of  a  mock 
election,  as  well  as  combat,  took  place  between 
the  numerous  Polish  pages,  who,  saith  the  grave 
secretary,  are  still  more  mischievous  than  our 
own  :  these  elected  among  themselves  four  com- 
petitors, made  a  senate  to  burlesque  the  diet,  and 
went  to  loggerheads.  Tliose  who  represented  the 
archduke  were  well  beaten,  the  Swede  was  hunted 
down,  and  for  the  Piastu,  they  seized  on  a  cart 
belonging  to  a  gentleman,  laden  with  provisions, 
broke  it  to  pieces,  »nd  burnt  the  axletree,  which 
in  that  country  is  called  a  tieuti,  and  cried  out.  The 
piasti  is  burnt  I  nor  could  the  senators  at  the  diet 
that  day  command  any  order  or  silence.  The  French 
party  wore  white  handkerchiefs  in  their  hats,  and 
they  were  so  numerous,  as  to  defeat  the  others. 

The  next  day  however  opened  a  diffierent  scene ; 
"  the  nobles  prepared  to  deliberate,  and  each  pala- 
tine in  his  quarters  was  with  hu  companions  on 
their  knees,  and  many  with  tear)  in  their  eyes 
chanting  a  hymn  to  the  Holy  Ghost :  it  must  be 
confessed,  that  this  looked  like  a  work  of  God," 
says  our  secretary,  who  probably  understood  the 
manoeuvring  of  the  mocK  comoat,  or  the  mock 
prayers,  much  better  than  we  may.  Everything 
tells  at  an  election,  burlesque  or  solemnity. 

The  election  took  place,  and  the  Duke  of  Anjou 
was  proclaimed  king  of  Poland — but  the  troubles 
of  Montluc  did  not  terminate.  When  they  pre- 
sented certain  articles  for  his  signature,  the  bishop 
discovered  that  these  had  under^ne  material  alter- 
ations from  the  proposals  tubmitted  to  him  before 
the  proclamation ;  these  alteratioi»  referred  to  a 
diuTowal  of  the  Paririan  massacre ;  the  poalah- 


\ 


BUILDISGS  IS  TJTE  ilETROPOLIS, 


Crigrrrdlhmt  lomi  thiogi  lull  bimi  chingBl, 
thot  they  wtTt  tootrivul  ID  lOK  aciown  bi) 

loilUy  tbe  fean.or  Kcurc  tbc  uTtfty  af  IhcpmpLc. 
Ooi  Gjllic  diploiTUIirt  wu  outwincd.  104  jiRct 
All  bu  Intriraa  And  cunnJnK,  he  Ibubd  ttut  tbe 


rouJd  osUy  be  Induced  to  cannrl  (bem.  in 
.LuY  Ibinp  ID  jJdfK  fiia»  Ai  before  theprwlAmi 

D  tva  wiEb  tbc  joyfui  nen,  but  I  beard  that  lb 
in.rn«(fwlt  va  tbmight  would  (uie<'ied  i 


dieted  In 


to  rruiit  of  bit  UbouT 


bflund  bjr  them,  hHiuK  Ihnr'did  not  concera 
PoUnd  in  gcneTkU,  and  that  ihe^  had  eompelled 


ATliliciil  genJiu  of 


The  fccretaiy,  honti 

roulhfal  frchdoke,  vhom  the  ^lea  tniiEht  hii« 
■noukled  to  their  will,  iin<l  oer  the  KlngoTsweden, 

bad  ofleted  id  aniK  fan  pari  of  Livonia  irilh  tbat 
vhjcb  the  Poles  pofDCSeil.  Me  labouti  hard  to 
pTDn  that  the  palatine*  and  Ibe  ciscllau  were 
not  ftrmi^uii,  I.  e,  Ihcif  rolei  bought  up  by 

their  oppotice  iDtemn,  he  conCoKa  Ibai  the 
nainral  ^  of  Cod,  vhicb  acquired  him  tbe  tiUe 


ITCDch  court  aifccted  Id  receire  ChDiinin  with 
faronr,  but  their  tuppiwd  divcontenl  «aa  tr- 

channd;  Chulet  IX-  wju  dying,  aod  Catharine 
de  Medicu  in  despair  Tai  a  son,  to  vbom  ihe  had 
Hcniiced  all;  vbile  Aniou,  alrea«iy  Immened  in 
Ihe  vintonnes  of  youth  and  pleafuic,  ronxidered 


of  an  overgrown  metropolis.    The  people  1 


aster  at  length  united 
ilended  together,  Ihat 


ing  the  capital  into  a  counrly,  and  haw  icrlfied 
Ihe  prediction  of  James  tbe  First,  tbat "  Hiielaiid 
will  shortly  be  London,  and  LonckiD  EngUnd," 
''llhinkila^atot^ei:!,*' said  Justice  Ber"  '- 

rtrf'M'  in  I**  enintrf,  itmtmgn  tluir  nti^htnTi 


^■-mi  »r  « 


AND  R-ESTDENCE  IN  THE  COUNTRY, 


Cii 


Tliese  sentiment!  of  a  living  Inminarv  of  the  Law 
afibrd  some  reason  of  policy  for  the  aread  which 
our  government  long  entertained  on  account  of 
the  perpetual  growth  of  the  metropolis ;  the  nation, 
like  an  h\'pochondriac,  was  ludicrously  terrified 
that  their  head  was  too  monstrous  for  tneir  body, 
and  that  it  drew  all  the  moisture  of  Tife  from  the 
middle  and  the  extremities.  Proclamations  warned 
and  exhorted;  but  the  very  interference  of  a 
royal  prohibition  seemed  to  render  the  crowded 
city  more  charming.  In  vain  the  statute  against 
new  buildings  was  passed  by  Elizabeth ;  in  vain 
during  the  reigns  of  James  the  First,  and  both 
the  Charleses,  we  find  proclamations  continually 
issuing  to  forbid  new  erections. 

James  was  apt  to  throw  out  his  opinions  in 
these  frequent  addresses  to  the  people,  who  never 
attended  to  them :  his  majesty  notices  "  those 
swarms  of  gentry,  who  through  the  insti^tion  of 
their  wives,  or  to  new-model  and  fashion  their 
daughters  (who  if  they  were  unmarried,  marred 
their  reputations,  and  if  married,  lost  them),  did 
neglect  their  country  hospitality,  and  cumber  the 
city,  a  general  nuisance  to  the  kingdom." — He  ad- 
dressed the  Star-chamber  to  regulate  "  the  exor- 
bitancy of  the  new  buildings  about  the  citv,  which 
were  out  a  shelter  for  those  who,  when  they  had 
spent  their  estates  in  coaches,  lacqueys,  and  fine 
clothes  like  Frenchmen,  lived  miserably  in  their 
houses  like  Italians ;  but  the  honour  of  the  Eng- 
lish nobility  and  gentry  i^  to  be  hospitable  among 
their  tenants."  Once  conversing  on  this  subject^ 
the  monarch  threw  out  that  happy  illustration, 
which  has  been  more  than  once  noticed,  that 
"  Gentlemen  resident  on  their  estates  were  like 
5hips  in  port;  their  value  and  magnitude  were 
felt  and  acknowledged ;  but  when  at  a  distance, 
as  th<^ir  size  seemed  insigniticant,  so  their  worth 
and  importance  were  not  duly  estimated." 

A  manuscript  writer  of  the  times  complains  of 
the  breaking  up  of  old  f  tmily  establishments,  all 
crowding  to  "  upstart  London." — "Every  one  strives 
to  be  a  Diogenes  in  his  house,  and  an  emperor  in 
the  streets ;  not  caring  if  they  sleep  in  a  tub,  40 
they  may  be  hurried  in  a  coach :  giving  that  allow- 
ance to  horses  and  mares,  that  formerly  maintained 
houses  full  of  men ;  pinching  many  a  belly  to 
paint  a  few  backs,  and  burying  all  the  treasures  of 
the  kingdom  into  a  few  citizens'  coffers;  their 
woods  into  wardrobes,  their  leases  into  laces,  and 
their  goods  and  chattels  into  guarded  coats  and 
gaudy  toys."  Such  is  the  representation  of  an 
eloquent  contemporar}* ;  and  however  contracted 
to  his  own  age  might  be  his  knowledge  of  the 
principles  of  politico  economy,  and  of  that  pros- 
perity which  a  wealthy  nation  is  said  to  derive 
from  its  consumption  of  articles  of  luxury,  the 
moral  effects  have  not'  altered,  nor  has  the  scene 
in  reality  greatly  changed. 

The  government  not  only  frequently  forbade 
new  buildings  within  ten  miles  of  London,  but 
sometimes  ordered  them  to  be  pulled  down — 
after  they  had  been  erected  for  several  years. 
Every  six  or  seven  years  proclamations  were 
issued.  In  Charles  the  Tint's  reign,  offenders  were 
sharply  prosecuted  by  a  combined  operation,  not 
only  against  houses,  out  against  persons.*    Many 

*  Rushwortb,  vol.  ii.  p.  a88. 


of  the  nobility  and  gentry,  in  1632,  were  informed 
against  for  having  resided  in  the  city,  contrary  to 
the  late  proclamation.  And  the  attorney-general 
was  then  fully  occupied  in  filing  bills  of  Indict- 
ment against  them,  as  well  as  laidies,  for  staying 
in  town.  The  following  curious  "  information  " 
in  the  Star-chamber  will  serve  our  purpose. 

Tlie  attorney-general  informs  his  majesty,  that 
both  Elizabeth  and  James,  by  several  proclama- 
tions, had  commanded  that "  persons  of  livelihood 
and  means  should  reside  in  their  counties,  and 
not  abide  or  sojourn  in  the  city  of  London,  so  that 
counties  remained  unserved."  These  proclama- 
tions were  renewed  by  Charles  the  First,  who  had 
observed  "a  ereater  number  of  nobility  and 
gentry,  and  abler  sort  of  people,  with  their 
families,  had  resorted  to  the  cities  of  London  and 
Westminster,  residing  there,  contrary  to  the  an- 
cient usage  of  the  English  nation  "— "  by  their 
abiding  in  their  several  counties  where  their  means 
arise,  they  would  not  only  have  served  his  ma- 
jesty according  to  their  ranks,  but  by  their  house- 
keeping  in  those  parts  the  meaner  sort  of  people 
formerly  'were  guided,  directed,  and  relieved."  He 
accuses  them  of  wasting  their  estates  in  the  me- 
tropolis, which  would  employ  and  relieve  the 
common  people  in  their  several  counties.  The 
loose  and  disorderly  people  that  follow  them, 
living  in  and  about  the  cities,  are  so  numerous, 
that  they  are  not  easily  governed  by  the  ordinary 
magistrates!  mendicants  increase  in  great  num- 
ber— ^the  prices  of  all  commodities  are  highly 
raised,  &c.  The  king  had  formerly  proclaimed 
that  all  ranks  who  were  not  connected  with 
public  offices,  at  the  close  of  forty  days'  notice, 
should  resort  to  their  several  counties,  and  with 
their  families  continue  their  residence  there. 
Aiid  his  majesty  further  warned  them  "Not  to 
put  themselves  to  unnecessary  charge  in  pro- 
viding themselves  to  return  in  winter  to  the  said 
cities,  as  it  was  die  king's  firm  resolution  to  with- 
stand such  great  and  growing  evil."  The  in- 
formation concludes  with  a  most  copious  list  of 
offenders,  among  whom  are  a  great  number  of 
nobility,  and  ladies  and  genUemen,  who  were 
accused  of  having  lived  in  London  for  several 
months  after  the  given  warning  of  forty  days. 
It  appears  that  most  of  them,  to  elude  the  grasp 
of  the  law,  had  contrived  to  make  a  show  of  quit- 
ting the  metropolis,  and,  after  a  short  absence, 
had  again  returned;  "and  thus  the  service  of 
your  majesty  and  your  people  in  the  several 
counties  nave  been  neglected  and  undone." 

Such  is  the  substance  of  this  curious  informa- 
tion, which  enables  us,  at  least,  to  collect  the 
ostensible  motives  of  this  singular  prohibition. 
Proclamations  had  hitheno  been  considered  little 
more  than  the  news  of  the  momins,  and  three 
days  afterwards  were  as  much  read  as  the  last 
week's  newspapers.  They  were  now,  however, 
resolved  to  stretch  forth  the  strong  arm  of  law, 
and  to  teiYify  by  an  example.  The  constables 
were  commanded  to  bring  in  a  list  of  the  names 
of  strangers,  and  the  time  they  proposed  to  fix 
their  residence  in  their  parishes.  A  remarkable 
victim  on  this  occasion  was  a  Mr.  Palmer,  a 
Sussex  gentleman,  who  was  brought,  ore  tenus, 
into  the  Star-chamber  for  disobeying  the  pro- 
clamation for  living  in  the  country.    Palmer  was 


5" 


BUILDINGS  IN  THE  METROPOLIS. 


a  squire  of  looo/.  per  annum,  then  a  consider- 
able income.  He  appears  to  have  been  some 
rich  bachelor ;  for  in  his  defence  he  alleged  that 
he  had  never  been  married,  never  was  a  house- 
keeper, and  had  no  house  fitting  for  a  man  of  his 
birth  to  reside  in,  as  his  mansion  in  the  country 
had  been  burnt  down  within  two  years.  These 
reasons  appeared  to  his  judges  to  aggravate  rather 
than  extenuate  hb  offence  ;  and  after  a  Ions 
reprimand  for  having  deserted  his  tenants  and 
neighbours,  they  heavily  fined  him  in  one  thou- 
sand pounds.* 

The  condemnation  of  this  Sussex  gentleman 
struck  a  terror  through  a  wide  circle  of  sojourners 
in  the  metropolis.  I  find  accounts,  pathetic 
enough,  of  their  *'  packing  away  on  all  sides  for 
fear  of  the  worst;"  and  gentlemen  "grumbling 
that  they  should  be  confined  to  their  houses  :'*  and 
this  was  sometimes  backed  too  by  a  second  pro- 
clamation, respecting  "  their  wives  and  families, 
and  also  widows,"  which  was  *'  dunu  strmo  to  the 
women.  It  is  nothing  pleasing  to  all,"  says  the 
letter-writer,  "but  least  of  all  to  the  women." 
"  To  encourage  gentlemen  to  live  more  willingly 
in  the  country,"  says  another  letter-writer,  "all 
game-fowl,  as  pheasants,  partridges,  ducks,  as 
also  hares,  are  this  day  by  proclamation  forbidden 
to  be  dressed  or  eaten  in  any  inn."  Here  we 
discover  the  argument  realised  in  favour  of  the 
game-laws  of  Mr.  Justice  Best. 

It  is  evident  this  severe  restriction  must  have 
produced  great  inconvenience  to  certain  persons 
who  found  a  residence  in  London  necessary  for 
their  pursuits.  This  appears  from  the  manuscript 
diarv  of  an  honest  antiquary.  Sir  Svmonds  D'Bwes : 
he  nas  preserved  an  opinion  which,  no  doubt, 
was  spreading  fast,  that  such  prosecutions  of  the 
attorney -general  were  a  violation  of  the  liberty  of 
the  subject.  "Most  men  wondered  at  Mr.  Ifoy/ 
the  attorney-general,  being  accounted  a  great 
lawyer,  that  so  strictly  took  atuay  tnen't  Ubertkt 
at  OM  bUnUf  confining  them  to  reside  at  their  ^tim 
houses,  and  not  permitting  them  freedom  to  live 
where  they  pleased  within  the  king's  dominions. 
I  was  myself  a  little  startled  upon  the  first  coming 
out  of  the  proclamation ;  but  having  first  spoken 
with  the  Lord  Coventry,  lord  keeper  of  the  great 
seal,  at  Islington,  when  I  visited  him  ;  and  after- 
wards with  Sir  William  Jones,  one  of  the  king's 
justices  of  the  bench,  about  my  condition  and 
residence  at  the  said  town  of  Islin^on,  and  they 
both  agreeing  that  I  was  not  withm  the  letter  of 
the  proclamation,  nor  the  intention  of  it  neither, 
I  rested  satisfied,  and  thought  myself  secure, 
laying  in  all  my  provisions  for  housekeeping  for 
the  year  ensuing,  and  never  imagined  myself  to 
be  in  danger,  till  this  unexpected  censure  of  Mr. 
Palmer  passed  in  the  Star-chamber;  so,  having 
advised  with  my  friends,  I  resolved  for  a  remove, 
being  much  troubled  not  only  with  my  separation 
from  Recordes,  but  with  my  wife,  being  great  with 
child,  fearing  a  winter  journey  might  \^  danger- 
ous for  hcr."t  He  left  Islington  and  the  records 
in  the  Tower  to  return  to  his  country-seat,  to  the 
great  disturbance  of  his  studies. 

*  Prom  a  manuscript  letter  from   Sir   George 
Oresley  to  Sir  Thomas  Puckering,  Nov.  163a. 
t  Harl.  M88.  6.  fo.  15a. 


It  is,  perhaps,  difficult  to  aarign  ttue  caase  of  this 
marked  anxietv  of  the  government  for  the  severe 
restriction  of  toe  limits  of  the  metropoUs,  and  the 
prosecution  of  the  nobility  and  gentry  to  compd 
a  residence  on  their  estates.  Whatever  were  me 
motives,  they  were  not  peculiar  to  the  existittg 
sovereign,  but  remained  transmitted  from  cabinet 
to  cabinet,  and  were  even  renewed  under  Charies 
the  Second.  At  a  time  when  the  plague  often 
broke  out,  a  close  and  growing  metropolis  might 
have  been  considered  to  be  a  great  enJ ;  a  terror 
expressed  by  the  manuscript  writer  before  quoted, 
complaining  of  "this  dclu^  of  building,  that 
we  shall  be  all  poisoned  with  breathing  in  one 
another's  faces."  The  police  of  the  metropoits 
was  long  imbecile,  notwithstanding  their  **  strong 
watches  and  guards"  set  at  times;  and  bodies 
of  the  idle  and  the  refractory  often  assamed  some 
mysterious  title,  and  were  with  difficulty  governed. 
We  may  conceive  the  state  of  the  police,  when 
"  the  London  apprentices,"  growing  in  number 
and  insolence,  frequently  made  attempts  on 
Bridewell,  or  pulled  down  houses.  One  day  the 
citisens,  in  proving  some  ordnance,  terrified  the 
whole  court  of  James  the  First  with  a  panic, 
that  there  was  "a  rising  In  the  dty."  It  is 
possible  that  the  government  might  hare  been  in- 
duced to  pursue  this  singular  conduct,  for  I  do  not 
know  that  it  can  be  paralleled,  of  pulling  down 
new-built  houses  by  some  principle  of  political 
economy  which  remains  to  be  explained,  or  ridi- 
culed, by  our  modem  adepts. 

It  would  hardly  be  supposed  that  the  present 
subiect  may  be  enlivened  by  a  poem,  the  el^^nce 
and  freedom  of  which  may  even  now  t>e  admired. 
II  as  a  great  literary  curiosity,  and  its  length  may 
be  excused  for  several  remarkable  points. 

AN  ODB, 

BY    Sia   aiCHARO   rANSHAW, 

Upon  Occasion  9f  his  Majesty's  Proclamation  in  the 
Tear  1630,  commanding  the  Gentry  to  reside  upon 
their  Estates  in  the  Country, 

Now  war  is  all  the  world  about. 
And  everywhere  Brynnis  reigns  ; 
Or  of  the' torch  so  late  put  out 

The  stench  remains. 
Holland  for  many  years  hath  been 
Of  Christian  tragedies  the  stage. 
Yet  seldom  hath  she  play'd  a  scene 

Of  bloodier  rage : 
And  France  that  was  not  long  compos'd. 
With  civil  drums  i^in  resounds. 
And  ere  the  old  are  fully  clos'd. 

Receives  new  wounds. 
The  great  Gustavus  in  the  west 
Pluclu  the  imperial  eagle's  wing. 
Than  whom  the  earth  did  ne'er  invest 

A  fiercer  king. 
Only  the  island  which  we  sow, 
A  world  without  the  world,  so  far 
From  present  wounds,  it  cannot  show 

An  ancient  scar. 
White  peace,  the  beautifull'st  of  things. 
Seems  here  her  everlasting  rest 
To  fix,  and  spread  her  downy  wings 

Over  the  nest. 


>• 


■■A^^*i«l^*Mi 


ROYAL  PROCLAMATIONS. 


513 


As  when  great  Jove,  usurping  reign. 
From  the  plagued  world  did  her  exile, 
And  tied  her  with  a  golden  chain 

To  one  blest  isle. 
Which  in  a  sea  of  plenty  swam, 
And  turtles  sang  on  every  bough, 
A  safe  retreat  to  all  that  came. 

As  ours  is  now ; 
Yet  we,  as  if  some  foe  were  here. 
Leave  the  despised  fields  to  clowns. 
And  come  to  save  ourselves,  as  'twere. 

In  walled  towns. 
Hither  we  bring  wives,  babes,  rich  clothes. 
And  gems— till  now  my  toveraign 
7^e  growing  evil  doth  oppose : 

Countmg,  in  vain. 
His  care  preserves  us  from  annoy 
Of  enemies  hb  realms  to  invade. 
Unless  he  force  us  to  enjoy 

The  peace  he  made. 
To  roU  themselves  in  envied  leisure ; 
He  therefore  sends  the  landed  heirs. 
Whilst  he  proclaims  not  his  own  pleasure 

80  much  as  theirs. 
The  sap  and  blood  of  the  land,  which  fled 
Into  the  root,  and  chok'd  the  heart. 
Are  bid  their  quick'ning  power  to  spread 

Through  every  part. 
O  'twas  an  act,  not  for  mv  mu»e 
To  celebrate,  nor  the  dull  age. 
Until  the  country  air  infuse 

A  purer  rage. 
And  if  the  fields  as  thankful  prove 
For  benefits  receiv'd,  as  seed. 
They  will  to  'quite  so  great  a  love 

A  Virgil  breed. 
Nor  let  the  gentry  grudge  to  go 
Into  those  places  whence  they  grew. 
But  think  them  bkst  they  may  do  so. 

"Who  would  pursue 
The  smoky  glory  of  the  town. 
That  may  go  till  hb  native  earth. 
And  by  th<«9iining  fire  sit  down 

Of  his  own  hearth. 
Free  from  the  griping  scriveners'  bands. 
And  the  mure  biting  mercers'  books ; 
Free  from  the  bait  of  oiled  hands. 

And  painted  looks  ? 
The  country  too  even  chops  for  rain ; 
You  that  exhale  it  by  your  power. 
Let  the  fat  drops  fall  down  a^n 

In  a  full  shower. 
And  you  bright  beauties  of  the  time. 
That  waste  yourselves  here  in  a  blaze. 
Fix  to  your  orb  and  proper  clime 

Your  wandering  rays. 
Let  no  dark  comer  of  the  land 
Be  uncmbelli^'d  with  one  gem. 
And  those  which  here  too  thick  do  stand 

Sprinkle  on  them. 
Bclie\'e  me,  ladies,  you  will  find 
In  that  sweet  life  more  solid  joys, 
Merc  true  contentment  to  the  mind 

Than  all  town-toys. 
Nor  Cupid  there  less  blood  doth  spill. 
But  heads  his  shafts  with  chaster  love. 
Not  feather'd  with  a  sparrow's  quill. 

But  of  a  dove. 


There  you  shall  hear  the  nightingale. 
The  harmless  syTen  of  the  wood. 
How  prettily  she  telb  a  tale 

Of  rape  and  blood. 
The  lyric  lark  with  all  beside 
Of  Nature's  feather'd  quire,  and  all 
The  commonwealth  of  flowers  in  'ts  pride. 

Behold  you  shall. 
The  lily  queen,  the  royal  rose. 
The  gillyflower,  prince  of  the  blood  ) 
The  courtier  tulip,  gay  in  clothes. 

The  regal  bud ; 
The  violet,  purple  senator. 
How  they  do  mock  the  pomp  of  state. 
And  all  that  at  the  surly  door 

Of  great  ones  wait. 
Plant  trees  you  may,  and  see  them  shoot 
Up  with  your  children,  to  be  serv'd 
To  your  clean  boards,  and  the  fairest  fruit 

To  be  preserv'd ; 
And  learn  to  use  their  several  gums ; 
'TIS  innocence  in  the  sweet  blood 
Of  cherry,  apricocks,  and  plums. 

To  be  imbrued. 


ROYAL  PROCLAMATIONS. 

Thk  satires  and  the  comedies  of  the  age  have 
been  consulted  by  the  historian  of  our  manners, 
and  the  features  of  the  times  have  been  traced 
from  those  amusins  recordt  of  folly.  Daines 
Barrin^ton  enlarged  this  field  of  domestic  his* 
tory,  m  his  very  entertaining  "  Observations  on 
the  Statutes."  Another  source,  which  to  me 
seems  not  to  have  been  explored,  b  the  pro> 
ctAMATioNS  which  have  frequently  issued  from 
our  sovereigns,  and  were  produced  by  the  exi- 
gencies of  tne  times. 

These  proclamations,  or  royal  edicts,  in  our 
country  were  never  armed  with  the  force  of  laws 
— only  as  they  enforce  the  execution  of  laws 
already  established;  and  the  proclamation  of  a 
British  monarch  may  become  even  an  illegal  act, 
if  it  be  in  opposition  to  the  laws  of  the  land. 
Once,  indeed,  it  was  enacted,  under  the  arbitrary 
government  of  Henry  the  Eighth,  by  the  sanction 
of  a  pusillanimous  parliament,  to  give  to  the 
king's  proclamations  the  force  of  acts  of  parlia- 
ment ;  and  at  a  much  later  period,  the  chancellor 
Lord  Ellesmere  was  Mrilling  to  have  advanced  the 
king's  proclamations  into  Taws,  on  the  sophbtical 
maxim,  that  "all  precedents  had  a  time  when 
they  began ;"  but  this  chancellor  argued  ill,  as 
he  was  told  with  spirit  by  Lord  Coke,  m  the  pre- 
sence of  James  the  First,*  who  probably  did  not 
think  so  ill  of  the  chancellor's  logic.  Blackstone, 
who  on  this  occasion  I  could  not  fail  to  turn  to, 
observes,  on  the  statute  under  Henry  the  Eighth, 
that  it  would  have  introduced  the  most  despotic 
tyranny,  and  must  have  proved  fatal  to  the 
liberties  of  this  kingdom  had  it  not  been  luckily 
repealed  in  the  minority  of  his  successor,  whom 
he  elsewhere  calls  an  amiable  prince — all  our 
young  princes,  we  discover,  were  amiable  I    Black- 

*  The  whole  story  m  in  la  Co.  746.  I  owe  thii 
curious  fact  to  the  author  of  Bunomus,  ii.  116. 


M1l> 


"^1 


514 


KOYAL  PROCLAMA  TTONS. 


stone  has  not  recorded  the  subsequent  attempt 
of  the  Lord  Chancellor  under  James  the  First, 
which  tended  to  raise  proclamations  to  the  nature 
of  an  ukase  of  the  autocrat  of  both  the  Russias. 
It  seems  that  our  national  freedom,  notwith- 
standing  our  ancient  constitution,  has  had  several 
narrow  escapes. 

Royal  proclamations,  however,  in  their  own 
nature  are  innocent  enough ;  for  if  the  manner, 
time,  and  circumstances  of  putting  laws  in  execu> 
tion  must  frequently  be  left  to  the  discretion  of 
the  executive  magistrate,  a  proclamation  that  is 
not  adverse  to  existing  laws  need  not  create  any 
alarm :  the  only  danger  they  incur  is  that  they 
seem  never  to  have  been  attended  to,  and  rather 
testified  the  wishes  of  the  government  than  the 
compliance  of  the  subjects.  They  were  not  laws, 
and  were  therefore  considered  as  sermons  or 
pamphlets,  or  anything  forgotten  in  a  week's 
time ! 

These  proclamations  are  frequently  alluded  to 
bv  the  letter-writers  of  the  times,  among  the  news 
of  the  day,  but  usually  their  royal  virtue  hardly 
kept  them  alive  beyond  the  week.  Some  en  im- 
portant  subjects  are  indeed  noticed  in  our  history. 
Many  indications  of  the  situation  of  affairs,  toe 
feelings  of  the  people,  and  the  domestic  history  of 
our  nation,  may  be  drawn  from  these  singular 
records.  I  have  never  found  them  to  exist  in  any 
collected  form,  and  they  have  been  probably  only' 
accidentally  preserved. 

The  proclamations  of  every  sovereign  would 
characterise  his  reign,  and  open  to  us  some  of  the 
interior  operations  of  the  cabinet.  The  despotic 
will,  yet  vacillating  conduct  of  Henry  the  Eighth, 
towards  the  close  of  his  reign,  may  be  traced  in  a 
proclamation  to  abolish  the  translations  of  the 
Scriptures,  and  even  the  reading  of  Bibles  by  the 
people ;  commanding  all  printers  of  English  books 
and  pamphlets  to  affix  their  names  to  them, 
and  to  forbid  selling  any  English  books  printed 
abroad.  When  the  people  were  not  suffered  to 
publish  their  opinions  at  home,  all  the  opposition 
flew  to  foreign  presses,  and  their  writings  were  then 
smuggled  into  the  country  where  they  ought  to 
have  been  printed.  Hence  many  volumes  printed 
in  a  foreign  type  at  this  period  arc  found  in  our  col- 
lections. The  king  shrunk  in  dismay  from  that 
spirit  of  reformation  which  had  only  been  a  party- 
business  with  him,  and  making  himself  a  pope, 
decided  that  nothing  should  be  learnt  but  what  he 
himself  deigned  to  teach  ! 

The  antipathies  and  jealousies,  which  our  po- 
pulace too  long  indulged  by  their  incivilities  to  all 
foreigners,  are  characterised  by  a  proclamation 
issued  bv  Mary,  commanding  her  subjects  to 
behave  tnemselves  peaceably  towards  the  strangers 
coming  wfth   King  Philip;'  that   noblemen   and 

?;entlemen  should  warn  their  servants  to  refrain 
rom  "strife  and  contention,  either  by  outward 
deeds,  taunting  words,  unseemly  countenance  by 
mimicking  them,  &c."  The  punishment  not  only 
"  her  grace's  displeasure,  but  to  be  committed  to 
prison  without  bail  or  main-prise." 

The  proclamations  of  Edward  the  Sixth  cu- 
riously exhibit  the  unsettled  state  of  the  reforma- 
tion, where  the  rites  and  ceremonies  of  Catholicism 
were  still  practised  by  the  new  religionists  while 
an  opposite  party,  resolutely  bent  on  an  eternal 


separation  from  Rome,  were  avowing  drvtrines 
which  afterwards  consolidated  themselves  into 
Puritanism,  and  others  were  hatching  up  that 
demoralizing  fanaticism,  which  iubsequently 
shocked  the  nation  with  those  monstrous  sects, 
the  indelible  disgrace  of  our  country  I  In  one 
procUmation  the  king  denounces  to  the  people 
"those  who  despise  the  sacrament  by  calling  It 
idol,  or  such  other  \ile  name."  Another  is  against 
such  "as  innovate  any  ceremony,"  and  are  de- 
scribed as  "  certain  private  preachers  and  other 
laiemen  w^ho  rashly  attempt  of  tluir  o-um  ami 
singular  'wit  and  mind,  not  only  to  penoadc.  the 
people  from  the  old  and  accustomed*  rites  and 
ceremonies,  but  also  themselves  bring  in  nttv  and 
strange  ordrrs  according  to  their  phantasies.  The 
which,  as  it  is  an  e%'ident  token  of  pride  and  ano- 
gancy,  so  it  tendcth  both  to  confusion  and  dis- 
order." Another  proclamation,  to  press  **  a  godly 
conformity  throughout  his  realm,"  where  we  learn 
the  following  curious  fact,  of  '*  divers  unlearned 
and  indiscreet  priests  of  a  devilish  mind  and  intent, 
teaching  that  a  man  may  forsake  his  wifie  and 
marry  another,  his  5rst  wife  yet  living ;  likewne  that 
the  wife  may  do  the  same  to  the  husband.  Otbcn 
that  a  man  may  have  tiuo  nuives  or  more  at  once, 
for  that  these  things  are  not  prohibited  by  God's 
law,  but  by  the  Bishop  of  Rome's  law ;  so  that  by 
such  evil  and  phantastical  opinions  some  have  not 
been  afraid  indeed  to  marr>'  and  keep  ttvo  tc/hfi." 
Here,  as  in  the  bud,  we  may  unfold  those  subse- 

5|uent  scenes  of  our  stor}*,  spread  cut  in  the 
ollowing  century  ;  the  Nonconformists  branching 
out  into  their  various  st^ts ;  and  the  indecent 
haste  of  our  reformed  priesthood,  who,  in  their 
zeal  to  cast  off  the  yoke  of  Rome,  desperately  sub- 
mitted to  the  liberty  of  having  "  two  wives  or 
more  I"  I'here  is  a  proclamation  to  abstain  from 
flesh  en  Fridap  and  Saturdays ;  exhorted  on  the 
principle,  not  only  that  "  men  should  abstain  on 
thuse  (lavs,  and  forbear  their  pleasures  and  the 
meats  wherein  they  have  more  delight,  to  the 
intent  to  subdue  their  bodies  to  the  sonl  and 
spirit,  but  also  for  'worldly  policy.  To  use  /M  for 
the  benefit  of  the  commonwealth,  and  profit  <tf 
many  who  be  fshers  and  men  luing  that  trade, 
unto  the  which  this  realm,  in  every  part  en- 
vironed with  the  seas,  and  so  plentiful  of  fresh 
waters,  be  increased  the  nourishment  of  the  land 
by  saving  flesh."  It  did  not  seem  to  occur  to  the 
kmg  in  council  that  the  butchers  might  have  had 
cause  to  petition  against  thb  monopoly  of  t«t> 
days  in  the  week  granted  to  the  fishmongers,  and 
much  less  that  it  was  better  to  let  the  people  eat 
flesh  or  fish  as  suited  their  con\-eniencv.  In 
respect  to  the  religious  rite  itself,  it  was  evidently 
not  consiiiered  as  an  essential  point  of  faith,  since 
the  king  enforces  it  on  the  principle  "for  the 
profit  and  commodity  of  hb  realm."  Burnet  has 
made  a  just  observation  on  religiotis  fasts.* 

A  proclamation  against  excess  of  apparel,  in  the 
reign  of  Elizabeth,  and  renewed  many  ycu% 
after,  shows  the  luxury  of  dress,  which  was  indeed 
excessive :  I  shall  shortly  notice  it  in  another 
article.  A  curious  one  against  the  ieonb€i^ts,  or 
image-breakers  and  picture-destroyers,  for  which  tlie 
antiquary  will  hold  her  in  hi^  reverence.    Her 

*  History  of  the  Reformation,  vol.  H.  p.  96,  folio. 


'f 


ROYAL  PBOCLAMATIOKS. 


5»5 


majesty  infonm  u%  that  "several  persons,  ig- 
norant, malicious,  or  covetous,  of  late  years,  have 
spoiled  and  broken  ancient  monuments,  erected 
only  /•  th»vu  a  memory  to  potterityt  and  not  to 
nourish  any  kind  of  superstition.'"  The  queen 
laments,  that  what  is  broken  and  spoiled  would 
be  now  hard  to  recover,  but  advises  her  good 
people  tu  repair  them;  and  commands  them  in 
future  to  desist  from  committing  such  injuries. 
A  more  extraordinary  circumstance  than  the  pro- 
clamation itself  was  the  manifestation  of  her  ma- 
jesty's zeal,  in  subscribing  her  name  with  her  own 
hand  to  everv  proclamation  dispersed  throughout 
Engl  md !  F^rst  appeared  these  image-breakers  in 
Elizabeth's  reign;  it  was  afterwards  that  they 
flourished  in  all  the  perfection  of  their  handicraft, 
and  have  contrived  that  these  monuments  of  art 
shall  carry  down  to  posterity  the  memory  of  their 
SHAM!  and  of  their  age.  These  image-breakers,  so 
famous  in  our  histor> ,  had  already  appeared  under 
Henry  the  Eighth,  and  continued  their  practical 
zeal,  against  all  proclamations  and  remonstrances, 
till  they  accomplished  their  work.  In  1641,  an 
order  was  published  by  the  commons,  that  they 
should  "  take  away  all  scandalous  pictures  out  of 
churches :"  but  more  was  intended  than  was  ex- 
pressed ;  and  we  are  told,  that  the  people  did  not 
at  first  carry  their  barbarous  practice  agaiiyrt  all 
art,  to  the  lengths  they  afterwards  did,  till  they 
were  instructedby  private  information  f  Dowsing's 
Journal  has  been  published,  and  shows  what  the 
order  meant.  He  was  their  giant  destroyer  t  Such 
are  the  Machiavelian  secrets  of  re\'olutionary  go- 
vernments ;  they  give  a  publit  order  in  moderate 
^vords,  but  the  secret  one,  for  the  deeds,  is  that  of 
extermination  I  It  was  this  sort  of  men  who  dis- 
charged their  prisoners,  by  giving  a  secret  sign  to 
lead  them  to  their  execution  ! 

The  proclamations  of  Jamks  the  First,  b^  their 
number,  are  said  to  have  sunk  their  value  with  the 
people.  He  was  fond  of  giving  them  gentle 
advice ;  and  it  is  said  by  Wilson  that  there  was  an 
intention  to  have  this  king's  printed  proclamations 
bound  up  in  a  volume,  that  better  notice  might 
be  taken  of  the  matters  contained  in  them.  There 
is  more  than  one  to  warn  the  people  against 
*'  speaking  too  freely  of  matters  abm*^ their  reach," 
prohibiting  all  '*  undutiful  speeches."  I  suspect 
that  many  of  these  proclamations  are  the  compo- 
sition of  the  king's  own  hand ;  he  was  often  his 
own  secretary.  There  is  an  adm:rable  one  against 
private  duels  and  challenges.  That  curious  one 
respecting  Cowell's  "  Interpreter  "  is  a  sort  of  royal 
re^'iew  of  some  of  the  arcana  of  state  :  I  referred 
to  the  quotation  in  Calamities  of  Authors,  ii.  46. 

I  will  preserve  a  passage  of  a  proclamation 
*'  against  excess  of  lavish  and  licentious  speech." 
James  was  a  king  of  words ! 

"  Although  the  commixture  of  nations,  in- 
fluence of  ambassadors,  and  the  relation  whict^the 
affairs  of  our  kingdoms  have  had  towards  the 
business  and  interests  of  foreign  states,  have  caused, 
during  our  regiment  (go\'emment),  a  greater  open- 
ness and  liberty  of  discourse,  even  concerning 
MATTBR8  or  ST  ATI  (which  are  no  themes  or  subjects 
JSt  for  vulgar  persons  or  common  meetings'^  than 
hath  been  in  former  times  used  or  permitted ;  and 
although  in  our  own  nature  and  judgment  we  do 
well  allow  of  convenient  freedom  ^f  speech,  esteem- 


ing any  over-curious  or  restrained  hands  carried  in 
that  kind  rather' as  a  weakness,  or  else  over-much 
severity  of  government  than  otherwise ;  yet  for  as 
much  as  it  is  come  to  our  ears,  tfy  common  re- 
port, that  there  is  at  this  time  a  more  licentious 
passage  of  lavish  discourse  and  bold  censuu  in 
matters  of  state  than  is  fit  to  be  suffered :  We  give 
this  warning,  &c.,  to  take  heed  hovv  they  inter- 
meddle by  pen  or  speech  xvith  causes  of  state  and 
secrets  ij  empire,  either  at  home  or  abroad,  but 
contain  themselves  within  that  modest  and  re- 
verent regard  of  matters  above  their  reach  and 
calling;  nor  to  give  any  manner  of  applause  to 
such  discourse,  without  acquainting  one  of  our 
pri\*y  council  within  the  space  of  twenty-four 
hours." 

It  seems  that  "the  bold  speakers,"  as  certain 
persons  were  then  denominated,  practised  an  old 
artifice  of  lauding  his  majesty,  while  they  severely 
arraigned  the  counsels  of  the  cabinet ;  on  this 
James  obser\-es,  "  Neither  let  any  man  mistake  us 
so  much  as  to  think  that  by  giving  fair  and  spe- 
cious attributes  to  our  penon,  they  cover  the 
scandals  which  they  otherwise  lay  upon  our 
government,  but  conceive  that  we  make  no  other 
construction  of  them  but  as  fine  and  artificial 
grosses,  the  better  to  give  passage  to  the  rest  of 
their  imputations  and  scandals." 

This  was  a  proclamation  in  the  eighteenth  year 
of  his  reign  ;  he  repeated  it  in  the  nineteenth,  and 
he  might  have  proceeded  to  "  the  crack  of  doom  " 
with  the  same  etf'ect ! 

RuAhworth,  in  his  second  volume  of  Historical 
Collections,  has  preserved  a  considerable  number 
of  the  proclamations  of  Charlks  the  First,  of  which 
many  are  remarkable ;  but  latterly  thev  mark  the 
feverish  state  of  his  reign.  One  resufates  access 
for  cure  of  the  king's  e^•il — in  which  his  majesty, 
it  appears,  "  hath  had  good  success  therein  ;"  but 
though  ready  and  willing  as  any  kin^  or  queen  of 
this  realm  ever  was  to  relieve  the  distresses  of  his 
good  subjects,  *'  his  majesty  commands  to  change 
the  seasons  for  his  '  sacred  touch '  from  Easter  and 
Whitsuntide  to  Easter  and  Michaelmas,  as  times 
more  convenient  for  the  temperature  of  the  sea- 
son," &c.  Another  against  "  departure  out  of  the 
realm  without  license."  One  to  erect  an  office 
•"  for  the  suppression  of  cursing  and  swearing,"  to 
receive  the  forfeitures ;  against  "  libellous  and 
seditious  pamphlets  and  discourses  from  Scot- 
land," framed  by  factious  spirits,  and  republished 
in  London — this'  was  in  1640 ;  and  Charles,  at  the 
crisis  of  that  great  insurrection  in  which  he  was 
to  be  at  once  the  actor  and  the  spectator,  fondly 
imagined  that  the  possessots  of  these  "  scandalous  " 
pamphlets  would  bring  them,  as  he  proclaimed, 
"  to  one  of  bis  majesU's  justices  of  peace,  to  be  by 
him  sent  to  one  of'^  his  principal  secretaries  of 
sUte !" 

On  the  Restoration,  Charlks  the  Second  had 
to  court  his  people  by  his  domestic  regulations. 
He  early  issued  a  remarkable  proclamation,  which 
one  would  think  reflected  on  his  favourite  com- 
panions, and  strongly  marks  the  moral  disorders  of 
those  depraved  and  wretched  times.  It  is  against 
"  vicious,  debauched,  and  profane  persons  1"  who 
are  thus  described. 

"  A  sort  of  men  of  whom  we  have  heard  much, 
and  are  sufficiently  ashamed ;  who  spend  their 


Si6                          TRUE  30USCE3  OF  SECRET  BISTORT.                                  \ 

■he  friend,  of  ci.il  freedom  ;  who,  bowerer.  uk- 

ceeded  in    ohtaimng   the  fnledom'  of  the  nffee- 

•M  dnoljof  nrr  IvalH.  ind  intelehinE  igiinit  HI 
nllMn  who  ire-nol  oF  rhni  ovn  iliwluic  temper ; 

lawyen.  a>  ihTbigh  Tory.  Koget  Hoith,  Iclb  IK, 

that  the  retaiUng  coa«  might  be  in  iaincnU 

Ihey  could  ott  idTincc  it  by  Iheir  •Sraitm  oi 

eounge.    We  hope  4U  penoiu  of  honoui.  or  in 

a«mhTy  to  *^'orK  0°  mltJ!^  tt^M™ 

peopie  ;■■  on  the  other  tide  Kennel  •mated  dut 

ihune  viLL  penuide  them  to  relorTn  whit  Ihnr 

xDDd  men  lovardt  Ihem  nuy  luppl)-  whit  the 
lain  hive  ^n,  ind,  il  nur  be.  cinnol  nU  piovidi 
inirut;  there  being  by  the  li«o«»Bd  corruption 
^th.  dme^  >nd  the  depneed  n«u,r  or  mui. 

intended  lo  luppren  an  eiil  whkh  wb  do*  ID  be 

piercnled.    At  Ihii  diT  wc  know  which  af  ifaiiae 

iwo  hiaoriaiu  eiercised  the  Imen  iudgmcBI.    It 

muiy  enoroillia,  ■undib,  aud  itnpietia  in  ptu- 
ti«  ud  manoen,  which  Awi  cdiiHf  vtO  ii- 

aacribci   cflecB   tu   a  cauje  quite  inideqiaaM   tD 

produce  them,  they  ate  only  Kcking  mDUH  to  bidn 

w^ich  nuy.  bv  the'  e»mpk    mA   •everity  oT 

Barely  t>K^rity  »nd  moTJl  jererit)-  o(  Cta- 

hiic  iXonled  Bine  minh  to  the  giy,  debauched 

TRUE  SOURCBS  OP  SECRBT  BISTORT. 

citvle,  the  1«K  cnmiet  ot  royalty  1 

II  U  cuTioui  thai  in  i«6s  Ckailu  the  Secoiul 

isiuedaloneKrocUTnalionfonheniictohKniiKe    themKlveii  and bu loa  ortcn  incurmi  the  HtiR, 

of  Unt.  lud  aJkgn  fur  it  the  lamc  itisaa  u  ve  •  and  n  en  the  contempt,  of  thoK  rolMile  ipiiiti 

found  in  Edward  Ihc  Siilhl  pnxlurutJDn.  "  for  ,  wlio  play  ahnut  the  luperlkin  of  trulh,  and  want 

the  good  it  proilucci  in  (he  emplo)inrnI  at  Jlilitr- ,  the  induur)'  lo  ticw  it  on  more  than  one  luje i 
mt-'"    HO  onlinario,  laremi.  Ire,  tu  make  anv  '  and   thcne   luperlkia]   read(T>  who  iauBine  that 

»UM>eT  «i  FTiJix  "X*".  '"I*"  hi  £na  rr  «a  </■  a-ay  lak  ii  tmd  when  it  i>  wrilteni 

CnAHLU  (he  AecDfhl  inued  ptTtclamatiom  "to    ilKll  atul  iti  gml  correctori  aikd  the  combiBa- 

repm  the  eiceu  of  gililitif;  oF  coachn  and .  tion  'of  iccret  with  public  hntory  hai  in  iueir  ■ 

chariMl,"  ID  nMrain  the  wMe  of  gold,  which.  a>  1  prrfcction,  which  each  taken  ■((.aiaRl.  hai  DM. 

(hey  Hippoacd,  by  the  eiceisita  lue  ol  ruling,  had   The  popular  hi«oiian  compow)  a  pUuable  nlhei 

EiDwn  acnce.    Agaioil  "  (he  exponiAn  and  the    than  an  accurate  talc :  rcKaiches  loo  fullv  deuiied 
Guying  and  aelling  of  gohl  and  atlnr  at  higher    would  injure  the  jum  proportion*,  or  crowd  the 

fate,  d^an  in  our  mini."  alluding  loa  natwe  m«le 

bold  design  of  the  elegant  namljvc  |  and  tact^ 

in  the  ninth  yai  of  Edwird  the  Thinl,  caUed  the 

statute  of  Money.    Againit  building  in  and  aboul 

ven.enco  dailv  growing  bv  incteue  of  new  build- 

order.   Bui  in  mnt  himiij  ie  are  moie  biuied 

ing!  an,  that  the  people  inneaiing  in  lucb  giral 

in  King  what  panel  than  in  being  loM  of  it. 

numbers,  ire  not  well  to  be  goiemcd  by  the 

wonted  DiKcFni    Ibe   pricei   of  rinuall   an  en- 

hanced !  the  health  of  the  whject  inhabiting  the 

age  ground"  of  (heir  posient;-;  and  thui  whil 

CItin  much  endangered,  and   manjr  good  (omrw 

lo  Ihrm  appeared  ambiguous,  lo  us  has  becSTiK 

unquestionable  ;  what  was  secret  lothem  has  been 

decivcd  —  frequent  lire>  Dccaiooed  by   timber 

iEESrJsSir™1 

•tone,  which  would  beautify,  and  nuke  an  uni- 

the  genetal  views  of  blKory,  and  i(  it  br  this  mon 

penence  ate  found  to  be  Sf  l.iil.  ^,  if  ,^1  Uu 

BiBca  that  we  are  enabled  to  loriicl  (he  less  dia- 

chajp  iluni  1*1  builAi-<g  villi  («.(«.■•    We  mu« 

«nct,  and  someUmea  the  EaUacioua  appeaiaiKCi  in 

aie  p«e  of  (he  popular  historiin.    He  who  anty 

r»I  then  being  genelall)'  uied,  became  ai  cheap  ai 

of  any  one  particular  i  he  may  be  a  fanciful  or  ■ 

the  Second  are  thine  which  concern  the  imila- 

who  wiU  enUgbten  while  he  charms. 
But  as  seem  historv  ippean  to  deal  in  miDutc 

thine,  its  connexion  with  grral  mulls  is  not  usu- 

■peaken  and  thehearen  were  made  alike  puniih- 
able.    ■na.w«h,^l,B«nteduanillegil«:tby 

the  changeable  ihadows  of  la  characters,  the  n- 

TRUE  SOURCES  OF  SECSET  HISTORY. 


out,  mm  DtuiUy  conteuDdcd  with  Ibit  •mall'taJk 
bmiliailr  Urmtd  gtiiiftng.  Bnl  the  (lui^iitf  o(  i 
profouhd  poJtttciu,  or  A  vi»AciDusabierT«,  in  otK 
of  their  Jetlenp  or  in  their  mctnoitit  oftcD,  bjr  i 
■pontancoiia  itroke^  rcveaii  the  iiuUriduil^  or  by  > 
ninpleincidenlunii<l<llaiin)itnioaiei'eat.  Vlt 


Fdf  imub 


und^  by  .n 


great  bght  lo  the  geoerki  tcopc  ind  dcugn  of 

pkaio  me  more  In  that  viluible  collection  <A 
Caidinil  D'Onafi  leiierj,  than  the  naivr  deK 

another  iwbie  author,  who  recently  haa  tbrc 
out  some  degrading  notioiu  of  secret  hUlory, . 
panicuLarly  oT  the   hittoriani.     I   would   h 
ulentty  paBed  by  a  vulnr  writer,  superlkiit,  pre- 
judiced, and  uninformed  i  but  u  lo  many  are  — ' 
deficient  in  correct  notiona  of  ucftt  Jtultrj,  i 
bul  iunice  that  tbeir  RpTaeDlative  ihould 
heard  before  they  are  condemned. 
Hii  kirdship  layi,  Ibat  "Of  late  the  appetite  (m 

Afmajm  of  all  kindi  haa  lurpriiinglr  ' ' 

ttory  repeated  by  Ibe  Duche*  oi 

lub^ct  of  inveitigation  for  a  phi 

'  r.    Tel  who  doe 


mbly  of 


It  b  a  matter  of  the  greatest  in 


thi.  l*e^l 


through 

howevefathit  knowledge  of  thi*  Itind  iaveryi 

tainiiw;  and  liere  and  there  among  the  ru 

we  HtM  binti  that  may  give  the  TAiiovtpber  i 

'   ipoitant  facta,  and  alliird 


icully  of  judginenl  i<  umally  quiCKenl  with 
Ibem  t  in  tlKir  org»m  they  fimotuly  deciy  what 
n  their  iobet  lenan  llley  a>  eageri^  land !  Lei  me 

ifarm  hia  lordship,  that "  the  waiting-woman  and 


Henrietta,  hu  preierved  for  onr  own  Engliih  hi*' 


historians    Gui  joly,  lb 


man,  in  the  mona 
■e'.  when  the  'St 


new  character ;  and  Ihui  petKlrating  tKyond 
lose  pneralisingrepieaentalioiu  which  »iii^Ihe 
jperliclal,  and  often  cover  the  page  of  hbtory  vrith 


re  paiticolarly  their  own  de- 


tobavebeendestroyedby  the  hand  which  recci%Yd 
themimemoinofindividnalibythemselveinrby 
their  friendajBocb  aa  ■—  -"—  "-»'*-»'—■  »-■  ■*■- 

•aaon;  and"the  misci 
bf  aU  kinds  of  perxms 


the  history-  of 


5i8 


TRUE  SOURCES  OF  SECRET  HISTORY. 


men,  or  the  senable  madneu  of  projecton,  mieht 
have  been  indulging  a  capricious  taste,  or  what 
has  proved  more  injoriou*  to  historical  pursuits, 
that  party  feeline  which  has  frequently  annihilated 
the  memorials  of  their  adversaries  I 

These  manuscript  collections  now  assume  a  for- 
midable appearance ;  a  toilsome  march  over  these 
•*  Alps  rising  over  Alps ;"  a  voyage  in  **  a  sea  with- 
out a  shore !"  has  turned  away  most  historians 
from  their  severer  duties ;  those  who  have  grasped 
at  early  celebrity  have  been  satisfied  to  have  given 
a  new  form  to,  rather  than  contributed  to  the  new 
matter  of  histor>'.    The  very  sight  of  these  masses 
of  history  has  terrified  some  modem  historians. 
When  Pire  Daniel  undertook  a  history  of  France, 
the  learned  Boivin,  the  king's  librarian,  opened 
for  his  inspection  an  immense  treasure  of  charters, 
and  another  of  royal  autograph  letters,  and  another 
of  private  correspondence;  treasures,  reposing  in 
fourteen  hundred  folios!    The  modem  historian 
passed  two  hours  impatiently  looking  over  them, 
but  frightened  at  another  plunge  into  the  gulf,  this 
Curtius  of  history  would  not  immolate  himself  for 
his  country  \  He  wrote  a  civil  letter  to  the  librarian 
for  his  "  supernumerary  kindness,"  but  insinuated 
that  he  could  write  a  very  readable  history  with- 
out any  further  aid  of  such  paperasset  or  **  paper 
mbbish."     Pcre   Daniel,  therefore,  "quietly  sat 
down  to  his  history,"  copying  others — a  compli- 
ment which  was  never  returned  by  any  one  :  but 
there  was  this  striking  novelty  in  his  "  readable 
histor>-,"  that  according  to  the  accurate  computa- 
tion of  Count  BoulainviUiers,  Pere  Daniel's  history 
of  France  contains  ten  thousand  blunders!    The 
same  circumstance  has  been  told  me  by  a  living 
historian  of  the  late  Gilbert  Stuart ;  who,  on  some 
manuscript  volumes  of  letters  being  pointed  out  to 
him  when  composing  his  history  of  Scotland,  con- 
fessed that "  what  was  already  printed  was  more 
than  he  was  able  to  read !"  and  thus  much  for  his 
theoretical  history,  written    to  run    counter   to 
another  theoretical  histor>',  being  Stuart  versus 
Robertson  !  They  equallv  depend  on  the  simplicity 
of  their  readers,  charmea  by  their  style !    Another 
historian,  Anquetil,  the  author  of  L'Etprit  de  la 
Ligue,  has  described  his  embarrassment  at  an  in- 
spection of  the  contemporary  manuscripts  of  that 
period.    After  thirteen  years  of  researches  to  glean 
whatc\'er  secret  history  printed  books  afforded, 
the  author,  residing  in  the  countr)',  resolved  to 
visit  the  Royal  Library  at  Paris.    Monsieur  Melot 
receiving  him  with  that  kindness,  which  is  one  of 
the  official  duties  of  the  public  librarian  towards 
the  studious,  opened  the  cabinets  in  which  were 
deposited  the  treasures  of  French  historj'. — "  This 
is  what  you  require  !  come  here  at  all  times,  and 
you  shall  be  attended !"  said  the  librarian  to  the 
young  historian,  who  stood   by  with   a  sort   of 
shudder,  while  he  opened  cabinet  after  cabinet. 
The  intrepid  investigator  repeated  his  visits,  look- 
ing over  the  mass  as  chance  directed,  attacking 
one  side,  and  then  flying  to  another.  The  historian, 
who  had  felt  no  weariness  during  thirteen  years 
among  printed  books,  discovered  that  he  was  now 
encaged  in  a  task«  apparently  always  beginning, 
and  never  ending !  The  "  Esprit  de  la  Ligue  "  was 
however  enriched  by  labours,  which  at  the  moment 
appeared  so  barren. 
The  study  of  these  paptrasHt  is  not  perhaps  so 


disgusting  as  the  impatient  Ffere  Daniel  imagined ; 
there  u  a  literary  fascination  in  looking  over  the 
same  papers  which  the  great  characten  of  history 
once  held  and  wrote  on ;  catching  from  tkennKlves 
their  secret  sentiments;  and  oRen  detecting  so 
minv  of  their  unrecorded  actions !  By  habit  the 
toil  becomes  light ;  and  with  a  keen  inquisitive 
spirit,  even  delightful  I  For  what  is  more  defigbt- 
ful  to  the  curious,  than  to  make  fresh  dhcoveries 
every  day  ?  Addison  has  a  trtie  and  pleasing  ob- 
ser%-ation  on  such  pursuits.  **  Our  employments 
are  converted  into  amusements,  so  that  even  in 
those  objects  which  were  indifferent,  or  even  d»- 
pleasing  to  us,  the  mind  not  only  gradoally  loaes 
Its  aversion,  but  conceives  a  certain  fondness  and 
affection  for  them."  Addison  illustrates  thb  case 
by  one  of  the  greatest  geniuses  of  U&e  age,  who  by 
habit  took  incredible  pleasure  in  searching  into 
rolls  and  records,  till  be  preferred  them  to  Virgil 
and  Cicero !  The  faculty'  of  curiosity  te  as  ferr^ 
and  even  as  refined  in  its  search  after  Troth,  as 
that  of  Taste  in  the  objects  of  Imagination,  and 
the  more  it  is  indulged,  the  more  exquisitely  it  is 
enjoved ! 

T^  popular  historians  of  En^nd  and  of  France 
have,  in  tmth,  made  little  use  of  manuscript  re- 
searches.  Life  is  verv  short  for  lone  histories ;  and 
those  who  rage  witft  an  avidit\'  of  fame  or  profit 
wilt  gladly  taste    the  fruit    w^ich    they  cannot 
mature.    Researches  too  remotely  sought  after,  or 
too  slowly  acquired,  or  too  fully  detailed,  would  be 
so  many  obstructions  in  the  smooth  texture  of  a 
narrative.    Our  theoretical  historians  write  from 
some  particular  and  preconceived  result ;  unlike 
Livy,  and  De  Thou,  and  Machiavel,  who  describe 
e^'ents  in  their  natural  order,  these  cluster  them 
together  bv  the  fanciful  threads  of  some  political 
or  moral  tneory,  by  which  facts  are  distorted,  dis- 
placed, and  sometimes  altogether  omitted  I    One 
single  original  document  n»»  sometimes  shaken 
into  dust  their  palladian  edifice  of  history.   At  the 
moment  Hume  was  sending  some  sheets  cf  his 
History  to  press,  Murdin's  State  Papers  appeared. 
And  we  are  highly*  aonused  and  instructed  by  a 
letter  of  our  historian  to  his  rival,  Robertson,  who 
probably  found  himself  often  in  the  same  forlorn 
situation.    Our  historian  discovered  in  that  collec- 
tion what  compelled  him  to  retract  bis  precon- 
ceived system — he  hurries  to  stop  the  press,  and 
paints  his  confusion  and  his  anxiety  with  all  the 
ingenuous  simplicity  of  his  nature.    *'  We  are  all 
in  the  wrong !"  he  exclaims.    Of  Hume  I  have 
heard,  that  certain  manuscripts  at  the  State  Paper 
Office  had  been  prepared  for  his  inspection  during 
a  fortnight,  but  he  never  could  muster  courage  to 
pay  his  promised  visit.  Satisfied  with  the  common 
accounts,  and  the  most  obvious  sources  of  history, 
when  libraifan  at  the  Advocates'  Library,  where 
vet  may  be  examined  the  books  he  uwkI,'  marked 
by  his  hand ;  he  spread  the  volumes  about  the 
sofa,  from  which  he  rarely  rose  to  purme  obscure 
inquiries,  or  delay  by  fresh  difficulties  the  page 
which  every  day  was  growing  under  his  charming 
pen.    A  striking  proof  of  his  careless  happiness  I 
discovered  in  his  ne\'er  referring  to  the  perfect  edi- 
tion of  Wliitelocke's  Mcmoriab  of  173a,  but  to  the 
old  tmncated  and  faithless  one  of  i68a. 

Dr.  Birch  was  a  writer  with  no  genius  for  com- 
position, but  to  whom  British  history  stands  more 
- — "•  '^-  —    ■  --  •    "  " 


J 


^f 


TRUE  SOURCES  OF  SECRET  HIS  TORT. 


519 


indebted  than  to  any  superior  author;  bis  in- 
credible  lore  of  labour,  in  transcribing  with  his 
own  hand  a  larec  library  of  manuscripts  from 
originals  dUpcised  in  public  and  in  private  re- 
pontories,  has  enriched  the  British  Museum  by 
thousands  of  the  most  authentic  documents  of 
genuine  secret  history.  He  once  projected  a  col- 
MCtion  of  original  historical  letter*,  for  which  he 
had  prepared  a  preface,  where  I  find  the  following 
pas^ge.  *'  It  is  a  more  important  service  to  the 
public  to  contribute  something  not  before  knorvn  to 
the  general  fund  of  history,  than  to  give  new  form 
and  colour  to  what  we  are  already  possessed  of,  by 
superadding  refinement  and  ornament,  which  too 
often  tend  to  disguUe  the  real  state  of  the  facts  i  a 
fault  not  to  be  atoned  for  by  the  pomp  of  style ,  or 
even  the  fine  eloquence  of  the  historian."  This 
was  an  oblioue  stroke  aimed  at  Robertson,  to 
whom  Birch  nad  generously  opened  the  stores  of 
hbtory,  for  the  Scotch  historian  had  needed  all  his 
charity ;  but  Robertson's  attractive  inventions,  and 
highly -finished  composition,  seduced  the  public 
taste  ;  and  we  may  forgive  the  latent  spark  of  envy 
in  the  honest  fcclines  of  the  man,  wno  was  pro- 
foundly skilled  in  <Klving  in  the  native  beds  of 
ore,  but  not  in  fashioning;  it ;  and  whose  own 
ne^ected  historical  works,  constructed  on  the 
true  principle  of  secret  histor>',  we  may  often  turn 
over  to  correct  the  crroneou*,  the  prejudiced,  and 
the  artful  accounts  of  those  who  have  covered 
their  faults  by  "the  pomp  of  style,  and  the  elo- 
quence of  the  historian." 

The  large  manuscript  coUectiom  of  original 
documents,  from  whence  may  be  drawn  what  I 
have  called  positive  secret  history,  are,  as  I  have 
otMerved,  comparatively  of  modern  existence. 
Formerly  thev  were  widely  dispersed  in  private 
hanils ;  and  tne  nature  of  such  sources  of  historic 
discovery  but  rarely  occurred  to  our  writers. 
Even  had  they  sought  them,  their  access  must 
have  been  partial  and  accidental.  Lord  Hardwicke 
has  observed,  that  there  are  still  many  untouched 
manuscript  collections  within  these  kinjjdoms, 
which,  througli  the  ignorance  or  inattention  of 
their  OMmers,  are  condemned  to  dust  and  obscuritv ; 
but  how  valuable  and  essential  they  may  be  to  tne 
interests  of  authentic  history  and  of  sacred  truth, 
cannot  be  more  strikingly  demonstrated  than  in 
the  recent  publications  of  the  Marlborough  and 
the  Shrewsbury  papers  by  Archdeacon  Coxe. 
The  editor  was  fully  authorised  to  observe,  **  It  is 
singular  that  those  transactions  should  either  have 
been  passed  over  in  silence,  or  imperfectly  repre- 
sented bv  most  of  our  national  historians."  Our 
modem  historv  would  have  been  a  mere  political 
romance,  witnout  the  astonishing  picture  of 
William  and  his  ministers,  exhibited  in  those  un- 
(|uestionable  document^.  Burnet  was  among  the 
hrst  of  our  modem  historians  who  showed  the 
world  the  preciousness  of  su^h  materials,  in  his 
History  of  tne  Reformation,  which  he  largely  drew 
from  the  Cottonian  Collection.  Our  earlier  his- 
torians only  repeated  a  tale  ten  times  told.  Milton, 
who  wasted  not  for  literary  industry,  had  no  fresh 
stores  to  open  for  his  History  of  England ;  while 
Hume  despatches,  comparatively  in  a  few  pages,  a 
subject  which  has  afforded  to  the  fervent  diligence  of 
my  learned  friend  Sharon  Turner  volumes  precious 
to  the  antiquar}-,  the  lawyer,  and  the  philosopher. 


To  illustrate  my  idea  of  the  usefulness,  and  of 
the  absolute  necessity  of  sbcrkt  history,  I  fix 
first  on  a  public  event,  and  secondly  on  «  public 
character;  both  remarkable  in  our'own  modem 
history,  and  both  serving  to  expose  the  fallacious 
appearances  of  popubr  history  by  authorities 
indisputably  genuine.  The  event  is  the  Restoration 
of  Charles  the  Second :  and  the  character  is  that 
of  Mar%',  the  oueen  of  William  the  Third. 

In  history  tne  Restoration  of  Charies  appears  in 
all  its  splendour — the  king  is  jovfuUy  received  at 
Dover,  and  the  shore  is  covered  by  men  on  their 
knees — crowds  of  the  Great  hurry  to  Canterbury 
— the  army  is  drawn  up,  in  number  and  with  a 
splendour  that  had  never  been  eoualled— his 
enthusiastic  reception  is  on  his  birthday,  for  that 
was  the  lucky  day  fixed  on  for  his  entrance  into 
the  metropolis — in  a  word,  all  that  is  told  in  Mstory 
describes  a  monarch  the  most  powerful  and  the 
most  happy.  One  of  the  tracts  of  the  day,  entitled 
"  England's  Triumph,"  in  the  mean  quaintness  of 
the  st>  le  of  the  times,  tells  us,  that  "  The  soldiery, 
who  had  hitherto  made  clubs  trump,  resolve  now 
to  enthrone  the  king  of  hearts."  Turn  to  the 
faithful  memorialist,  who  so  well  knew  the  secrets 
of  the  king's  heart,  and  who  was  himself  an  actor 
behind  the  curtain ;  tum  to  Clarendon,  in  his  own 
life  ;  and  we  shall  find  that  the  power  of  the  king 
was  then  as  dubious  as  when  he  was  in  exile ;  and 
his  feelings  were  strained  so  much  on  the  rack, 
that  he  had  neariy  resolved  on  a  last  flight. 

Clarendon,  in  noticing  the  temper  and  spirit  of 
that  time,  observe^,  "  Whoever  reflects  upon  all 
this  composition  of  contradictory  wishes  and  ex- 
pectations, must  confess  that  the  king  was  not  yet 
the  master  of  the  kingdom,  nor  his  authority  and 
security  such  as  the  general  noiM  and  acclamation, 
the  bells  and  the  bo^res,  proclaimed  it  to  be." — 
"  The  first  mortification  the  king  met  with  was  as 
soon  as  he  arrived  at  Canterbury,  within  three 
hours  after  he  landed  at  Dover."  Clarendon  then 
relates  how  many  the  kin^  found  there,  who  while 
thev  waited  with  joy  to  kiss  his  hand,  also  came 
witn  importunate  solicitations  for  themselves; 
forced  him  to  give  them  present  audience,  in 
which  they  reckoned  up  the  insupportable  losses 
undergone  by  themselves  or  their  fathers;  de- 
manding some  grant,  or  promise  of  such  or  such 
offices ;  some  even  for  more !  "  pressing  for  two 
or  three  with  such  confidence  and  importunity, 
and  with  such  tedious  discourses,  that  the  king 
was  extremely  nauseated  with  their  suits,  though 
l.is  modesty  knew  not  how  to  break  from  them ; 
that  he  no  sooner  got  into  bis  chamber,  which  for 
some  hours  he  was  not  able  to  do,  than  he  lamented 
the  condition  to  tvhich  he  found  he  must  be  subject ; 
and  did,  in  truth,  from  that  minute,  contract 
such  a  prejudice  against  some  of  those  persom." 
But  a  greater  mortification  was  to  follow,  and 
which  had  nearly  put  the  king  in  despair. 

General  Monk  had  from  the  beginning  to  this 
instant  acted  very  mysteriously,  never  correspond- 
ing with  nor  answering  a  letter  of  the  king's,  so 
that  hb  majesty  was  frequently  doubtful  whether 
the  general  designed  to  act  for  himself  or  for  th? 
king ;  an  ambiguous  conduct  which  I  attribute  to 
the  power  his  wife  had  over  him,  who  was  in  the 
opposite  interest.  The  general,  in  his  rough  way, 
presented  him  a  large  paper,  with  about  seventy 


530 


TRUE  SOURCES  OF  SECRET  HISTORY. 


names  for  his  privy  council,  of  which  not  more 
than  two  were  acceptable.  "The  king,"  says 
Clarendon,  **  was  in  more  than  ordinary  cor^fusion, 
for  he  knew  not  well  what  to  think  of  the  general, 
in  whose  absolute  power  he  was — so  that  at  this 
moment  his  majes^  was  almost  alarmed  at  the 
demand  and  appearance  of  things."  The  general 
afterwards  undid  this  unfavouraole  appearance,  by 
acknowledging  that  the  list  was  drawn  up  by  his 
wife,  who  nad  made  him  promise  to  present  it ; 
but  he  permitted  his  majesty  to  act  as  he  thought 
proper.  At  that  moment  General  Monk  was 
mjre  king,  than  Charles. 

We  have  not  yet  concluded.  When  Charles 
met  the  army  at  Blackheath,  50,000  strong,  "  he 
knew  well  the  ill  constitution  of  the  army,  the 
distemper  and  murmuring  that  was  in  it,  and  how 
many  diseases  and  convulsions  their  infant  loyalty 
was  subject  to ;  that  hotv  united  soever  their  inclt- 
nationj  and  acclamations  seemed  to  be  at  Blackheath, 
their  affections  were  not  the  same — and  the  Xfery 
countenances  there  of  many  officers,  as  well  as 
soldiers,  did  sufficiently  manifest  that  they  were 
drawn  thither  to  a  service  they  were  not  delighted 
in.  The  old  soldiers  h.id  little  regard  for  their  neiv 
qfficers;  and  it  quickly  appeared,  by  the  select 
and  atlected  mixtures  of  sullen  and  melancholic 

parties  of  officers  and  soldiers  " And  then  the 

chancellor  of  human  nature  adds,  "  And  in  this 
melancholic  and  perplexed  condition  the  king  and  all 
his  hopes  stood,  -when  he  appeared  most  gay  and 
exalted,  and  'wore  a  pleasantness  in  his  face  that 
became  him,  and  looked  like  as  full  an  assurance 
of  his  security  as  was  possible  to  put  on."  It  is 
imagined  that  Louis  the  Eighteenth  would  be  the 
ablest  commentator  on  this  piece  of  secret  history, 
and  add  another  t'win  to  Pierre  de  Saint  Julicn's 
"  Gemelles  ou  Pareiles,"  an  old  French  treatise  of 
histories  which  resemble  one  another ;  a  volume 
so  scarce,  that  I  have  never  met  with  it. 

Burnet  informs  us,  that  when  Queen  Mary  held 
the  administration  of  government  during  the 
absence  of  William,  it  was  imagined  by  some, 
that  as  "every  woman  of  sense  loved  to  be 
meddling,  they  concluded  that  she  had  but  a 
small  portion  of  it,  because  she  lived  so  abstracted 
from  all  affairs."  He  praises  her  exemplary  beha- 
viour; "regular  in  her  devotions,  much  in  her 
closet,  read  a  great  deal,  was  often  busy  at  work, 
and  seemed  to  employ  her  time  and  thoughts  in 
anything  rather  than  matters  of  state.  Her  con- 
versation was  lively  and  obliging;  everything  in 
her  was  easy  and  natural.  The  king  told  the  Earl 
of  Shrewsbur>-,  that  though  he  could  not  hit  on 
the  right  way  of  pleasing  England,  he  was  confident 
she  would,  and  that  we  should  all  be  ver>'  happy 
under  her."  Such  is  the  miniature  of  the  queen 
which  Burnet  offers;  we  see  nothing  but  her 
tranquillity,  her  simplicity,  and  her  carelessness 
amiost  the  important  transactions  passing  under 
her  eye :  but  I  lift  the  curtain  from  a  lareer 
picture.  The  distracted  state  amidst  which  ue 
queen  lived,  the  vexations,  the  secret  sorrows,  the 
agonies  and  the  despair  of  Mary  in  the  absence  of 
William,  nowhere  appears  in  histor>' !  and,  as  we 
see,  escaped  the  ken  of  the  Scotch  bishop  !  They 
were  reser^'ed  for  the  curiosity  and  the  instruction 
of  posterity  ;  and  were  found  by  Dalrymple,  in  the 
letters  of  Mary  to  her  husband,  in  King  William's 


cabinet.  It  will  be  well  to  place  under  the  eye  of 
the  reader  the  suppressed  cries  of  this  afflicted 
queen,  at  the  time  when  "  o'erything  in  her  was 
so  easy  and  natural,  employing  her  time  and 
thoughts  in  anything  rather  than  matters  of  state 
—often  busy  at  work  f" 

I  shall  not  dwell  jn  the  pangs  of  the  queen  for 
the  fate  of  William— or  her  de»lly  suspicions  that 
many  were  unfaithful  about  her :  a  tuttle  lost 
mieht  have  been  fatal ;  a  conspiracy  might  have 
undone  what  even  a  victory  had  obtained ;  the 
continual  terrors  she  endured  were  such,  that  we 
might  be  at  a  loss  to  determine  who  sufl^ered  most, 
those  who  had  been  expelled  from,  or  those  who 
had  ascended,  the  throne. 

So  far  was  the  queen  from  not  "  employing  her 
thoughts"  on  "matters  of  state,"  that  crery 
letter,  usually  written  towards  evening,  chronicles 
the  conflicts  of  the  day ;  she  records  not  only 
events,  but  even  dialogues  and  personal  charac- 
teristics ;  hints  her  suspicions,  and  multiplies  her 
fears:  her  attention  was  incessant. — "I  never 
write  but  what  I  think  others  do  not :"  and  her 
terrors  were  as  ceaseless, — "  I  pray  God,  send  vou 
back  quickly,  for  I  see  all  breaking  nut  mto 
flames."  Tne  nueen's  difficulries  were  not  e»ed 
by  a  single  confidential  intercourse.  On  one  occa- 
sion she  observes,  "  As  I  do  not  know  what  I 
ought  to  speak,  and  when  not,  I  am  as  silent  as 
can  be." — "I  ever  fear  not  doing  well,  and  trust 
to  what  nobody  says  but  you. — It  seems  to  me 
that  every  one  is  afraid  of  themselves. — I  am  very 
uneasy  in  one  thing,  which  is  want  of  somebody  to 
speak  my  mind  freely  to,  for  it's  a  great  constraint 
to  think  and  be  silent ;  and  there  is  so  much 
matter,  that  I  am  one  of  Solomon's  fools,  who  am 
ready  to  burst.  I  must  tell  you  again  how  Lord 
Monmouth  endeavours  to  frighten  me,  and  indeed 
things  have  but  a  melancholy  prospect."  She  had 
indeed  reason  to  fc:ar  lx>rd  Monmouth,  who,  it 
appears,  divulc^cd  all  the  secrets  of  the  royal 
councils  to  Major  Wildman,  who  was  one  of  our 
old  republicans ;  and,  to  spread  alarm  in  the  privy 
council,  conveyed  in  lemon-juice  all  their  secrets 
to  France,  often  on  the  ver>'  day  they  had  passed 
in  council !  They  discovered  the  fact,  and  every 
one  sa^pected  the  other  as  the  traitor!  Lord 
Lincoln  even  once  assured  her,  that  "  the  Lord 
President  and  all  in  general,  who  are  in  trust,  were 
rogues."  Her  council  was  composed  of  factions, 
and  the  queen's  suspicions  were  rather  genera] 
than  particular  ;  for  she  observes  on  them,  "  Till 
now  I  thought  you  had  given  me  wrong  characters 
of  men ;  but  now  I  see  they  answer  my  expecta- 
tion of  being  as  little  of  a  mind  as  of  a  body." — 
For  a  final  extract,  take  this  full  picture  of  royal 
miser>' — "  I  must  see  company  on  my  set  da>s ;  I 
must  play  twice  a  week ;  nay,  I  must  laugh  and 
talk,  though  never  so  much  against  my  will :  I 
beheve  I  dissemble  very  ill  to  those  who  know  me ; 
at  least,  it  is  a  great  constraint  to  myself,  yet  I 
must  endure  it.  All  my  motions  are  so  watched, 
and  all  I  do  so  observed,  that  if  I  eat  less,  or  speak 
less,  or  look  more  grave,  all  is  lost  in  the  opinion 
of  the  world  ;  so  that  I  have  this  misery  added  to 
that  of  your  absence,  that  I  roust  grin  when  my 
heart  is  ready  to  break,  and  talk  when  my  heart  u 
so  oppressed  that  I  can  scarce  breathe.  I  go  to 
Kensington  as  often  as  I  can  for  air ;  but  then  I 


LITER AR  T  RESIDENCES, 


521 


never  can  be  quite  alone,  neither  can  I  complain — 
that  would  be  some  ease;  but  I  have  nobodv 
whose  humour  and  circumstances  agree  with 
mine  enough  to  speak  my  mind  freely  to.  Besides, 
I  must  hear  of  business,  which  being  a  thing  I  am 
so  new  in,  and  so  unfit  for,  does  but  break  my 
brains  the  more,  and  not  ease  my  heart." 

Thus  difficTent  from  the  representation  of 
BuRNXT  was  the  actual  state  of  Queen  Mary ;  and 
I  suspect  that  our  warm  and  vehement  bishop  had 
but  little  personal  knowledge  of  her  majesty,  not- 
withstanding the  elaborate  character  of  the  queen 
he  has  given  in  her  funeral  eulogium. — He  must 
have  known  that  she  did  not  always  sympathise 
with  his  party-feelings;  for  the  queen  writes, 
"  The  bishop  of  Salisbury  has  made  a  long  thunder- 
ing sermon  this  morning,  which  he  has  oeen  with 
me  to  desire  to  print ;  which  I  could  not  refuse, 
diough  I  should  not  have  ordered  it,  for  reasons 
which  I  told  him."  Burnet  (whom  I  am  very 
far  from  calling  what  an  inveterate  Tory,  Edward 
Earl  of  Oxford,  does  in  one  of  his  manuscript  notes, 
"  that  lying  Scot,")  unquestionably  has  told  many 
truths  m  his  garrulous  page ;  but  the  cause  in 
which  he  stood  so  deeply  engaged,  with  his  warm 
sanguine  temper,  may  nave  sometimes  dimmed 
his  sagacity,  so  as  to  have  mistaken,  as  in  the 
present  case,  a  mask  for  a  face,  particulariy  at  a 
time  when  almost  every  individual  appears  to  have 
worn  one ! 

Both  these  cases  of  Charles  the  Second  and 
Queen  Mary  show  the  absolute  necessity  of  re- 
searches into  SECRET  HISTORY,  to  corTcct  the 
appearances  and  the  *  fallacies  which  so  often 
deceive  us  in  public  history. 

••  The  appetite  for  Remains,"  as  the  noble  author 
whom  I  have  already  alluded  to  calls  it,  may  then 
be  a  very  wholesome  one,  if  it  provides  the  only 
materials  by  which  our  popular  histories  can  be 
corrected,  and  often  infuse  a  freshness  into  a  story 
which,  after  having  been  copied  from  book  to 
book,  inspires  another  to  tell  it  for  the  tenth  time ! 
Thus  are  the  sources  <(/'  secret  history  unsus- 
pected by  the  idler  and  the  superficial,  among 
those  masses  of  untouched  manuscripts — that  sub- 
terraneous history  ! — which  indeed  mav  terrify  the 
indolent,  bewilder  the  inexperienced,  and  con- 
found the  injudicious,  if  they  have  not  acquired 
the  knowledge  which  not  only  decides  on  facts 
and  opinions,  but  on  the  authorities  which  have 
furnished  them.  Popular  historians  have  written 
to  their  readers;  each  with  different  views,  but  all 
alike  form  the  open  documents  of  history ;  like 
feed  advocates,  they  declaim,  or  like  special 
pleaders,  they  keep  only  on  one  side  of  their  case  : 
they  are  selaom  zealous  to  push  on  their  cross- 
examinations  ;  for  they  come  to  gain  their  cause, 
and  not  to  hazard  it ! 

Time  will  make  the  present  age  as  obsolete  as 
the  last,  for  our  sons  will  cast  a  iiew  light  over  the 
ambiguous  scenes  which  distract  their  fathers; 
they  will  know  how  some  things  happened,  for 
which  we  cannot  account;  they  will  witness  how 
many  characters  we  have  mistaken  ;  they  will  be 
told  many  of  those  secrets  which  our  contempo- 
raries hide  from  us ;  they  will  pause  at  the  ends  of 
our  beginnings ;  they  will  read  the  perfect  stor^ 
of  man,  which  can  never  be  told  while  it  is 
proceeding.    All  this  is  the  possession  of  posterit}', 


because  they  will  judge  without  our  passions ;  and 
all  this  we  ourselves  have  been  enabled  to  possess, 
by  the  secret  history  qfthe  last  t%uo  ages!* 


LITERARY  RESIDENCES. 

Men  of  genius  have  usually  been  condemned  to 
compose  their  finest  works,  which  are  usually 
their  earliest,  under  the  roof  of  a  garret ;  and  few 
literary  characters  have  lived,  like  Pliny  and  Vol- 
taire, m  a  villa  or  chAteau  of  their  own.  It  has 
not  therefore  often  happened,  that  a  man  of  genius 
could  raise  local  emotions  bv  his  own  intellectual 
suggestions.  Ariosto,  w^p  ouilt  a  palace  in  his 
verse,  lodged  himself  in  a  small  house,  and  found 
that  stanzas  and  stones  were  not  put  together  at 
the  same  rate :  old  Montaigne  has  left  a  descrip- 
tion of  his  library;  "over  the  entrance  of  my 
house,  where  I  view  my  court-yards,  and  garden, 
and  at  once  survey  all  the  operations  of  my 
family !" 

There  is,  however,  a  feeling  among  literary  men 
of  building  up  their  own   elegant  fancies,  and 

Siving  a  permanency  to  their  own  tastes :  we 
well  on  their  favourite  scenes  as  a  sort  of  por- 
traits, and  we  eagerly  collect  those  few  prints, 
which  are  their  only  vestiges.  A  collection  might 
be  formed  of  such  literary  residences  chosen  for 
their  amenity  and  their  retirement,  and  adorned 
by  the  obiects  of  their  studies.  Prom  the  younger 
Pliny,  who  called  his  villa  of  literary  leisure  Dy 
the  endearing  term  of  •villula,  to  Cassiodorus, 
the  prime  minister  of  Tlieodoric,  who  has  left  so 
magnificent  a  description  of  his  literary  retreat, 
where  all  the  elegancies  of  life  were  at  hand; 
where  the  gardeners  and  the  agriculturists  la- 
boured on  scientific  principles ;  and  where,  amidst 
gardens  and  parks,  stood  his  extensive  library, 
with  scribes  to  multiply  his  manuscripts; — to 
Tycho  Brahe,  who  built  a  magnificent  astrono- 
mical house  on  an  island,  which  he  named  after 
the  sole  objects  of  his  musings,  Uranienburgh,  or 
the  castle  of  the  Heavens ; — to  Evelyn,  who  first 
began  to  adorn  Wotton,  by  building  "  a  little 
study,"  till  many  years  after  he  deoicated  the 
ancient  house  to  contemplation,  among  the  "  de- 

*  Since  this  article  has  been  sent  to  press,  I  rise 
from  reading  one  in  the  Edinburgh  Review  on 
Lord  OrforcTs  and  Lord  Waldegrave's  Memoirs. 
Tills  is  one  of  the  very  rare  articles  which  could 
only  come  from  the  hand  of  a  master,  long  exer- 
cised in  the  studies  he  criticises.  The  critic,  or 
rather  the  historian,  obser^'es,  that  of  a  period 
remarkable  for  the  establishment  of  our  present 
system  of  government,  no  authentic  materials  had 
yet  appeared.  Events  of  public  notoriety  are  to 
be  found,  though  often  inaccurately  tolcl,  in  our 
common  histories ;  but  the  secret  spring  of  action, 
the  private  views  and  motives  of  individuals,  &c., 
are  as  little  known  to  us,  as  if  the  events  to  which 
they  relate  had  taken  place  in  China  or  Japan. 
The  clear,  connected,  dispassionate,  and  circum- 
stantial narrative,  with  which  he  has  enriched  the 
stores  of  English  history,  is  drawn  from  the  sources 
of  secret  history  ;  from  published  memoirs  and 
contemporary  corresporuUrue, 


^•■PVV^Btr^P* 


52^ 


LITERARY  RESTDENCE8. 


licioiu  streams  and  venerable  woods,  the  gardens, 
the  fountains,  and  the  groves  most  tempting  for 
a  great  person  and  a  wanton  purse ;  and  indeed 
gave  one  of  the  first  examples  to  that  elegancy 
since  so  much  in  vogue ;" — to  Pope,  whose  little 
garden  seemed  to  multiply  its  scenes  by  a  glorious 
union  of  nobility  and  literary  men  convening  in 
groups; — down  to  lonely  Shekstone,  whose 
''  rural  elegance,"  as  he  entitles  one  of  his  odes, 
compelled  him  to  mourn  over  his  hard  fate,  when 


-Expense 


Had  lavish'd  thousand  ornaments  and  taught 
Convenience  to  perplex  him,  Art  to  pall. 
Pomp  to  deject,  and  Beauty  to  displease. 

We  all  have  by  heart  the  true  and  delightful 
reflection  of  Johnson  Sn  local  associations,  when 
the  scene  we  tread  suggests  to  us  the  men  or  the 
d^eds,  which  have  left  their  celebrity  to  the  spot. 
We  are  in  the  presence  of  their  fame,  and  feel  its 
influence ! 

A  literary  friend,  whom  a  hint  of  mme  had 
induced  to  visit  the  old  tower  in  the  g^den  of 
BurroN,  where  that  sage  retired  every  morning 
to  compose,  passed  so  long  a  time  in  that  lonely 
apartment,  as  to  have  raised  some  solicitude 
among  the  honest  folks  of  Mont  bar,  who  having 
seen  "  the  Englishman "  enter,  but  not  return, 
during  a  heavy  thunderstorm  which  had  occurred 
in  the  inter^'ai,  informed  the  gocd  mayor,  who 
came  in  due  form,  to  noflfy  the  ambiguous  state 
of  the  stranger.  My  friend  is,  as  is  well  known,  a 
eeniusof  that  cast,  who  could  pau  two  hours  in 
the  Tow^ER  or  BurroK,  without  being  aware  that 
he  had  been  all  that  time  occupied  by  suggestions 
of  ideas  and  reveries,  which  such  a  locality  may 
excite  in  some  minds.  He  was  also  busied  oy  his 
hand  ;  for  he  has  favoured  me  with  two  drawing 
of  the  interior  and  the  exterior  of  this  old  totver  m 
Ike  garden :  the  nakedness  within  can  only  be  com- 
pared to  the  solitude  without.  Such  was  the 
studying-room  of  Buffon,  where  his  eye,  resting 
on  no  object,  never  interrupted  the  unity  of  his 
meditations  on  Nature. 

In  return  for  my  friend's  kindness,  it  has  cost  me, 
I  think,  two  hours,  in  attempting  to  translate  the 
beautiful  picture  of  this  literary  retreat,  which 
Vicq  D'Azyr  has  finished  with  all  the  warmth  the 
subject  inspired.  "  At  Montbar,  in  the  midst  of 
an  omamente'I  garden,  is  seen  an  antique  tower  : 
it  was  there  that  Buffon  wrote  the  history  of 
Nature,  and  from  that  spot  his  fame  spread  through 
the  universe.  There  he  came  at  sunrise,  and  no 
one,  howe\'cr  importunate,  was  suffered  to  trouble 
him.  Tlie  calm  of  the  morning  hour,  the  first 
warbling  of  the  birds,  the  varied  aspect  of. the 
countr}-,  all  at  that  moment  which  touched  the 
senses,  recalled  him  to  his  model.  Free,  indepen- 
dent, he  wandered  in  the  walks ;  there  was  he 
seen  with  quickened  or  with  slow  steps,  or  stand- 
ing rapt  in  thought,  sometimes  with  his  eyes  fixed 
on  the  heavens  in  the  moment  of  inspiration,  as  if 
satisfied  with  the  thought  that  so  profoundly  oc- 
cupied his  soul ;  sometimes,  collected  within  nim- 
self,  he  sought  wha^  would  not  always  be  found  ; 
or  at  the  moments  of  producing,  ne  wrote,  he 
eflaced,  and  re-wrote  to  efface  once  more ;  thus 
he  harmonised,  in  silence,  all  the  parts  of  his  com- 
position, which  he  frequently  repeated  to  himself. 


till,  satisfied  with  hb  correctional  he  Kcmed  to 
repay  himself  for  the  pains  of  his  beautiful  prose, 
by  the  pleasure  he  found  in  declahnii^  it  aloud. 
Thus  he  en^ved  it  in  his  memory,  and  would 
recite  it  to  his  friends,  or  induce  some  to  read  it  to 
him.  At  those  moments  he  was  himself  a  severe 
judj^e,  and  would  ag|in  recompose  it.  diesiroas  of 
attaining  to  that  penection  which  is  diented  to  the 
impatient  writer." 

A  curious  circumstance,  connected  with  local 
associations,  occurred  to  chat  extraordinary  oriental 
student  Fourmont.  Orieinally  be  bekmged  to  a 
religious  community,  and  never  foiled  in  perform- 
ing his  offices;  but  he  was  expelled  by  the  sa- 
C'or  for  an  irregularity  of  conduct,  oof  likely  to 
e  become  contagious  through  the  brothobood 
— he  frequently  prolonged  his  studies  for  into  tbe 
ni^t,  and  it  was  poraible  that  the  house  nu^  be 
burnt  by  such  superfluity  of  learning.  Fonrmoot 
retreated  to  the  college'  of  Montaign,  where  be 
occupied  the  very  chambers  which  bad  formerly 
been  those  of  Bra.<mus;  a  circumstance  whicn 
contributed  to  excite  his  emulation,  and  to  hasten 
his  studies.  He  who  smiles  at  the  force  of  such 
emotions,  only  proves  that  he  has  not  experienced 
what  are  real  and  substantiiU  as  the  scene  itself— 
for  those  who  are  concerned  in  them.  Pope,  who 
had  far  more  enthusiasm  in  hb  poetical  disposition 
than  is  generally  understood,  was  extremely  sus- 
ceptible of  those  literary  associations  with  kica- 
lities :  one  of  the  volumes  of  his  Homer  was  begun 
and  finished  in  an  old  tower  over  the  chapo  at 
Stanton  Harcourt;  and  he  has  perpetuated  the 
ex'ent,  if  not  consecrated  the  place,  by  scratchii^ 
with  a  diamond  on  a  pane  of  stained  glass  thb 
inscription : 

In  the  year  1718, 
Alexander  Pope 
Finished  here 
TheJifth  •volume  of  Homer. 

It  was  the  same  feeling  which  induced  him  one 
day,  when  taking  his  usual  walk  with  Harte  in  tbe 
Haymarket,  to  desire  Harte  to  enter  a  little  shop, 
where  going  up  three  pair  of  stain  into  a  small 
room.  Pope  said, "  In  this  garret  Addison  wrote  hb 
Campaign!"  Nothing  less  than  a  strong  feeling 
impelled  the  poet  to  ascend  this  garret — it  was  a 
consecrated  soot  to  his  eye ;  and  certainly  a  cnrioas 
instance  of  the  power  of  genius  contrasted  with 
its  miserable  locality  !  Addison,  whose  miiMl  had 
foueht  through  "  a  campaign  "  in  a  garret,  conkl 
he  have  called  about  him  ''the  pleasures  of  imagi- 
nation," had  probably  planned  a  bouse  of  literary 
repose,  where  all  parts  would  have  been  in  har- 
mony with  his  mind. 

Such  residences  of  men  of  genius  have  been 
enjoyed  by  some;  and  tbe  vivid  descriptions 
which  they  have  left  us  convey  something  of 
the  delightfulness  which  charmed  their  studioas 
repose. 

The  Italian  Paul  Jovius  has  composed  more 
than  three  hundred  concise  eulopcs  of  statesmen, 
warriors,  and  literary  men  of  the  fourteenth,  6l- 
teenth,  and  sixteentn  centuries  ;  but  the  occasion 
which  induced  him  to  compose  them  b  perhaps 
more  interesting  than  the  compositions. 

Juvius  had  a  country-house,  situated  on  a 
peninsula,  bordered  by  the  lake  of  Como.    It  was 


rmm 


^«K^HP«PV< 


r9 


WHETHER  ALLOWABLE  TO  RUIN  ONESELF^ 


533 


bttUt  on  the  ruins  of  the  ^illa  of  Plinv,  and  in  his 
time  the  foundations  were  still  visible.  \^'hcn 
the  surrounding  lake  was  calm,  the  sculptured 
marbles,  the  trunks  of  columns,  and  the  fragments 
of  those  p)'ramids  which  had  once  adorned  the 
residence  of  the  friend  of  Trajan,  were  still  viewed 
in  its  lucid  bosom.  Jovius  was  the  enthusiast  of 
literature,  and  the  leisure  it  loves.  He  was  an 
historian,  with  the  imagination  of  a  poet,  and  a 
Christian  prelate,  almost  a  worshipper  of  the  sweet 
fictions  01  pagan  m>'thology ;  and  when  his  pen 
was  kept  pure  from  satire  or  adulation,  to  which 
it  was  too  much  accustomed,  it  becomes  a  pencil. 
He  paints  with  rapture  his  gardens  bathed  by  the 
waters  of  the  bke ;  the  shade  and  freshness  of  his 
woods ;  his  green  slopes,  his  sparkling  fountains, 
the  deep  silence  and  calm  of  his  solitude  !  A  statue 
was  raised  in  his  gardens  to  Nature  !  In  his  hall 
stood  a  tine  statue  of  Apollo,  and  ihe  Muses  around, 
with  their  attributes.  His  library  was  guarded 
by  a  Mercury,  and  there  was  an  apartment  adorned 
with  Doric  columns,  and  with  pictures  of  the  most 
pleasing  subjects  dedicated  to  the  Graces  I  Such 
was  the  interior !  Without,  the  transparent  lake 
here  spread  its  broad  mirror,  and  there  volumi- 
nously winding  by  banks  covered  with  olives  and 
laurels ;  in  the  distance,  towns,  promofitories,  hills 
rising  in  an  amphitheatre,  blushing  with  vines, 
and  the  first  elevation  of  the  Alps,  covered  with 
woods  and  pasture,  and  sprinkled  with  herds  and 
flocks. 

It  was  in  a  central  spot  of  this  enchanting  habi- 
tation that  a  cabinet  or  gallery  was  erected,  where 
Jovtus  had  collected,  with  prodi^l  cost,  the  por- 
traits of  celebrated  men  ;  and  it  was  to  explain 
and  to  describe  the  characteristics  of  these  il- 
lustrious names  that  he  had  composed  his  eulogies. 
This  collection  became  so  remarkable,  that  tl?e 
great  men,  hiscontemporaries,  presented  our  literary 
collector  with  their  own  portraits,  among  whom 
the  renowned  Fernandez  Cortes  sent  Jovius  his 
before  he  died,  and  probably  others  who  were  less 
entitled  to  enlarge  the  collection  ;  hut  it  is  equally 
probable  that  our  caustic  Jovius  would  throw 
them  aside.  Our  historian  had  often  to  describe 
men  more  famous  than  virtuous ;  sovereigns,  poli- 
ticians, poets,  and  philosophers,  men  of  all  ranks, 
countries,  and  ages,  formed  a  crowded  scene  of 
men  of  genius  or  of  celebrity :  sometimes  a  few 
lines  compress  their  character,  and  sometimes  a 
few  pages  excite  his  fondness.  If  he  sometimes 
adulates  the  living,  we  mav  pardon  the  illusions 
of  a  contemporary ;  but  ne  has  the  honour  of 
satirising  some  by  the  honest  freedom  of  a  pen 
which  occasionally  broke  out  into  premature 
truths. 

Such  was  the  inspiration  of  literature  and  leisure 
which  had  embellished  the  abode  of  Jovius,  and 
had  raised  in  the  midst  of  the  lake  of  Como  a 
CABINET  or  portraits;  a  noble  tribute  to  those 
who  are  *'  the  salt  of  the  earth.'* 

We  possess  prints  of  KuBE.Ns's  house  at  Antwerp. 
That  princely  artist  perhaps  first  contrived  for  his 
studia  the  circular  apartment  with  a  dome,  like 
the  rotunda  of  the  Pantheon,  where  the  light 
descending  from  an  aperture  or  window  at  the 
top,  sent  down  a  single  equal  light, — that  perfec- 
tion of  li^t  which  distributes  its  ma^cal  effiects 
on  the  objects  beneath.    Bellori  describes  it,  una 


stanza  rotonda  con  un  toh  oechio  in  chna;  the 
solo  oechio  is  what  the  French  term  ceil  di  banj } 
we  ourselves  want  this  singU  ey*  in  our  technical 
language  of  art.  This  was  his  precious  museum, 
where  he  had  collected  a  vast  number  of  books, 
which  were  mtermixed  with  his  marbles,  statues, 
cameos,  intaglios,  and  all  that  variety  of  the  riches 
of  art  which  he  had  d.awn  from  Rome :  but  the 
walls  did  not  yield  in  value ;  for  they  were 
covered  by  pictures  of  his  own  composition,  or 
copies  by  his  own  hand,  made  at  Venice  and 
Madrid,  of  Titian  and  Paul  Veronese.  No  fo- 
reigner, men  of  letters,  or  lovers  of  the  arts,  and 
even  princes,  would  pass  through  Antwerp  without 
visiting  the  house  of  Rubkns,  to  witness  the  ani- 
mated residence  of  genius,  and  the  great  man  who 
had  conceived  the  idea.  '  Yet,  great  as  was  the 
mind,  and  splendid  as  were  the  habits  of  life  <A 
Rubens,  he  could  not  resist  the  entreaties,  or  the 
hundred  thousand  florins  of  our  Duke  of  Bucking- 
ham, to  dispose  of  this  studio.  The  great  artist 
could  not,  however,  abandon  forever  the delii^htful 
contemplations  he  was  depriving  himself  of;  and 
as  substitutes  for  the  miracles  of  art  he  had  lost,  he 
solicited  and  obtained  leave  to  replace  them  by 
cast*,  which  were  scrupulously  deposited  in  the 
places  where  the  originals  had  stood. 

Of  this  feeling  of  the  local  residences  of  genius, 
the  Italians  appear  to  have  been,  not  perhaps  more 
susceptible  than  other  people,  but  more  energetic 
in  their  enthusiasm.  Florence  exhibits  many 
monuments  of  this  sort.  In  the  neighbourhood 
of  Santa  Maria  Novella,  Zimmerman  has  noticed  a 
house  of  the  celebrated  Viviani,  which  is  a  sin- 
gular monument  of  gratitiide  to  his  illustrious 
master  Galileo.  The  front  is  adorned  with  the 
bust  of  this  father  of  science,  and  between  the 
windows  are  en^ven  accounts  of  the  discot'eries 
of  Galileo;  it  is  the  mmX  lieautiful  biography  of 
genius !  Yet  another  still  more  eloquently  excites 
our  emotions — the  house  of  Michael  Anuelo  :  his 
pupils,  in  perpetual  testimony  of  their  admiration 
and  gratitude,  have  ornamented  it  with  all  the 
leading  features  of  his  life :  the  very  soul  of  this 
vast  scnius  put  in  action  :  this  is  more  than  bio- 
graphy 1 — it  is  living  as  with  a  contemporary  I 


WHETHER 


ALLOWABLE 
ONESELF  ? 


TO  RUIN 


■Wl,"l>«^ 


•M^ 


t%m' 


The  political  economist  replies  that  it  is  t 
One  of  our  old  dramatic  writers,  who  witnessed 
the  singular  extravagance  of  dress  among  the  mo- 
dellers of   fashion,  our   nobility,  condemns  their 
•'  superfluous  bra%'ery,"  echoing  the  popular  cr)*, 

"  There  are  a  sort  of  men,  whose  coining  heads 
Are  mints  of  all  new  fashions,  that  have  done 
More    hurt  to  the    kingdom,   by  superfluous 

braveij'. 
Which  the  foolish  gentry  imitate,  than  a  war 
Or  a  long  famine.    AU  tfu  treasure  by 
This  foul  excess  is  got  into  the  merchants'. 
Embroiderers' f     silk-men's,    jetuellers',    taylorr 

hands, 
And  the  third  part  nf  the  land  toof  the  nobility 
Engrossing  titles  only." 


.'W  .■ 


WHETHER  ALLOWABLE  TO  RUf-V  OXKSELFt 


Ont  port  mighl  hlTC 


iiSSJa°b 

u  which.  mLoi 

ind  The  bLiH  of  tpleDdouT,  of* 
iniv  Hinlc  the  ■ncmlimty  of  oai  i 

hnd  men  of  lank   nhlultiAg  thehl .r--- 

ing  Iheir  cutJo.  jnd  do^i^i^  in>m  feoni 
tbnn,  hnoa  for  i  cTiHHto,  c*  bcigMM>  fcr  Chdr 


thb  fnqnentljr  A^ffi  Iba 


/-• 


r     1    I  imH  in  ■ 


•i<BiiMdMiaiaMMk^^B^^M*i< 


WHETHER  ALLOWABLE  TO  RUIN  ONESELFf 


525 


of  chivalry  have  been  faithfully  registered,  and 
they  were  snch  as  innantiy  to  throw  a  spark  into 
the  heart  of  erery  lover  of  arms  I  The  world  of 
fashion,  that  is,  the  cbivalric  world,  were  set  in 
motion.  Four  bodies  of  assailants  soon  collected, 
each  consisting  of  ten  combatants.  The  herald 
of  Orleans  having  examined  the  arms  of  these 
gentlemen,  and  satisHed  himself  of  their  ancient 
lineage,  and  their  military  renown,  admitted  their 
claims  to  the  proffered  honour.  Sandricourt  now 
saw  with  rapture,  placed  on  the  sides  of  his  portals, 
the  numerous  shields  of  the  asuilants,  correspond- 
ing with  those  of  the  challengers  which  hung 
above  them.  Ancient  lords  were  elected  judges 
of  the  feats  of  the  knights,  accompanied  oy  the 
ladies,  for  whose  honour  only  they  declared  they 
combated. 

The  herald  of  Orleans  tells  the  history  in  no 
▼ery  intelligible  verse;  but  the  burthen  of  his 
stanza  is  still 

Du  pas  ifamus  du  chatteau  Sandricourt, 

He  sings,  or  says, 

**  Oncqucs,  depuis  le  temps  du  roi  Artus, 
Ne  furent  tant  Ics  armcs  exaulcccs — 
Maint  chevaliers  et  prcux  entreprenans — 
Princes  plusieurs  ont  terre  deplacces 
Pour  y  venir  donner  coups  et  poussees 
Qui  ont  ^te  1^  tcnus  si  de  court 
Que  par  force  n'ont  prises  ct  passees 
Les  barricres,  entrees,  et  pasaees 
Du  pas  des  armes  du  chastcau  Sandricourt." 

Doubtles,  there  many  a  Roland  met  with  his 
Oliver,  and  could  not  pass  the  barriers.  Cased  as 
they  were  in  steel,  de  pied  en  cap,  we  presume 
that  they  could  not  materially  injure  themselves ; 
yet,  when  on  foot,  the  ancient  judges  discovered 
such  symptoms  of  peril,  that  on  the  following  day 
they  advised  our  kniehts  to  satisfy  themselves  by 
fighting  on  horseback.  Against  this  prudential 
counsel  for  seme  time  they  protested,  as  an  in- 
ferior  sort  of  glory.  However,  on  the  next  day, 
the  horse  combat  was  appointed  in  the  carrefour^ 
by  the  pine-tree.  On  the  following  dav  they  tried 
their  lances  in  the  meadow  of  the  thorn ;  but, 
though  on  horseback,  the  judges  deemed  their 
attacks  were  so  fierce,  that  this  assault  was  like* 
wise  not  Mrithout  peril ;  for  some  horses  were 
killed,  and  some  knights  were  thrown,  and  lay 
bruised  by  their  own  mail ;  but  the  barbed  horses, 
wearing  only  dtt  ehantreins,  head-pieces  magnifi- 
cently caparisoned,  found  no  protection  in  their 
ornaments.  The  last  days  were  passed  in  combats 
of  two  to  two,  or  in  a  single  encounter,  a-foot,  in 
the /ordt  divoyable.  These  jousts  passed  without 
any  accident,  and  the  prizes  were  awarded  in  a 
manner  equally  gratifying  to  the  claimants.  The 
last  day  of  the  fetival  was  concluded  with  a  most 
sumptuous  banquet.  Two  noble  knights  had  un- 
dertaken the  humble  office  of  matiret  d'Mtel;  and 
while  the  knights  were  parading  in  the  forh  di- 
voyable  seeking  adventures,  a  nundred  servants 
were  seen  at  ul  points,  c^rying  white  and  red 
hypocrzA,  and  juleps,  and  sirop  de  vioiars,  sweet- 
meats,  and  other  spiceries,  to  comfort  these  wan- 
derers, who,  on  returning  to  the  ekasteau,  found  a 
grand  and  plenteous  banquet.  The  tables  were 
crowded  in  the  court-apartment,  where  some  held 


one  hundred  and  tvrelve  gentlemen,  not  including 
the  dames  and  the  demeiselles.  In  the  halls,  and 
outside  of  the  chasteau,  were  other  tables.  At 
that  festival  more  than  two  thousand  persons  were, 
free  of  every  expense,  magnificently  entertained ; 
their  attendants,  their  armourers,  their  plumassiers^ 
and  others.  La  Dame  de  Sandricourty  "  fut  moult 
aise  d'avoir  donne  dans  son  chasteau  si  belle,  si 
magnifique,  et  gorgiasse  ftte."  Historians  are  apt 
to  describe  their  personages  as  they  appear,  not  as 
they  are :  if  the  lady  of  the  Sieur  de  Sandricourt 
really  was  **  moult  aise "  during  these  gorgeous 
days,  one  cannot  but  sympathise  with  tne  lady, 
when  her  loyal  knight  and  spouse  confessed  to  her, 
after  the  departure  of  the  mob,  of  two  thousand 
visitors,  neighbours,  soldiers,  and  courtiers, — the 
knights  challengers,  and  the  knights  assailants, 
and  the  fine  scenes  at  the  pine-tree ;  the  barrier 
in  the  meadow  of  the  thorn ;  and  the  horse- 
combat  at  the  carre/our ;  and  the  jousts  in  the 
fordt  dHfoyable ;  the  carousals  in  the  castle- 
halls  ;  the  jollity  of  the  banquet-tables,  the  mo- 
rescoes  danced  till  they  were  reminded  "  How  the 
waning  night  grows  old  !" — in  a  word,  when  the 
costly  dream  had  vanished, — that  he  was  a  ruined 
man  for  ever,  by  immortalising  his  name  in  one 
grand  chivalric  festival !  The  Sieur  de  Sandri- 
court, like  a  great  torch,  had  consumed  himself 
in  his  own  brightness;  and  the  very  land  on 
which  the  famous  Pas  de  Sandricourt  was  held — 
had  passed  away  with  it !  Thus  one  man  sinks 
generations  by  that  wastefulness,  which  a  political 
economist  would  assure  us  was  committing  no 
injury  to  society ! — ^The  moral  evil  goes  for  no- 
thing in  financial  statements ! 

Similar  instances  of  ruinous  luxury  we  may  find 
in  the  prodigal  costliness  of  dress  through  the 
reigns  01  Elizabeth,  James  the  First,  and  Charles 
the  First.  Not  only  in  their  massy  grandeur  they 
outweighed  us,  but  the  accumulation  and  variety 
of  their  wardrobe  displayed  such  a  gaiety  of  fancy 
in  their  colours  and  their  ornaments,  that  the 
drawing-room  in  those  da)-s  must  have  blazed  at 
their  presence,  and  changed  colour  as  the  crowd 
moved.  But  if  we  may  trust  to  royal  proclama- 
tions, the  ruin  was  general  among  some  classes. 
Elizabeth  issued  more  than  one  proclamation 
against  "  the  excess  of  apparel !"  and  among  other 
evils  which  the  government  imagined  this  passion 
for  dress  occasioned,  it  notices  "  the  wasting  and 
undoing  of  a  great  number  of  young  gentle- 
men, otherwise  serviceable ;  and  othen,  seeking 
by  show  of  apparel  to  be  esteemed  as  gentlemen, 
allured  by  the  vain  show  of  these  things,  they  not 
only  consume  their  goods  and  lands,  but  also  run 
into  such  debts  and  shifts,  as  they  cannot  live  out 
of  danger  of  laws,  without  attempting  of  unlawful 
acts."  The  queen  bids  her  own  household  "  to 
look  unto  it  tor  good  example  to  the  realm ;  and 
all  noblemen,  arcnbishops  and  bishops,  all  mayors, 
justices  of  |.«ace,  &c.,  should  see  them  executed  in 
their  private  households."  The  greatest  difficulty 
which  occurred  to  regulate  the  wear  of  apparel 
was  ascertaining  the  incomes  of  persons,  or,  m  the 
words  of  the  proclamation,  "  finding  that  it  is  very 
hard  for  any  man's  state  of  living  and  value  to  be 
truly  understood  by  other  persons."  They  were 
to  be  regulated,  as  they  appear  "sessed  in  the 
subsidy  tMoks."    But  if  persons  chose  to  be  more 


526 


WHETHER  ALLOWABLE  TO  RUIN  ONESELF* f 


maipificent  ic  their  dress,  they  were  allowed  to 
ju«itify  their  means :  in  that  case,  if  allowed,  her 
majesty  would  not  be  the  loser ;  for  they  were  to 
be  rated  in  the  subsidy  books  according  to  such 
values  as  they  themselves  offered  as  a  qualification 
for  the  splendour  of  their  dress ! 

In  my  researches  among  manuscript  letters  of 
the  times,  I  had  frequent  occasion  to  discover  how 
persons  of  considerable  rank  appear  to  have  carried 
their  acres  on  their  backs,  and  with  their  ruinous 
and  fantastical  luxuries  sadly  pinched  their  hospi- 
tality. It  was  this  w^hich  so  frequently  cast  them 
into  the  nets  of  the  "  goldsmiths,"  ana  other  trad- 
ing usurers.  At  the  coronation  of  James  the  First, 
I  tind  a  simple  knight  whose  cloak  cost  him  five 
hundred  pounds;  but  this  was  not  uncommon. 
At  the  marriage  of  Blizabeth,  the  daughter  of 
James  the  first,  "  Lady  Wotton  had  a  gown  of 
which  the  embroidery  cost  fifty  pounds  a  yard. 
The  Lady  Arabella  made  four  gowns,  one  of  which 
cost  1500/.  The  Lord  Montacute  (Montague)  be- 
stowed 1500/.  in  apparel  for  his  two  daughters. 
One  lady,  under  the  rank  of  baroness,  was  fur- 
nished with  jowels  exceeding  one  hundred  thou- 
sand pounds ;  and  the  Lady  Arabella  goes  beyond 
her,"  says  the  letter-writer.  "All  this  extreme 
cost  and'riches  makes  us  all  poor,"  as  he  imagined  \ 
I  have  been  amused  in  obscrx'ing  grave  writers  of 
state-despatches  jocular  on  any  mischance  or  mor- 
titication  to  which  persons  arc  liable,  whose  happi- 
ness entirely  depends  on  their  dress.  Sir  Dudley 
Carleton,  our  minister  at  Venice,  communicates, 
as  an  article  worth  transmitting,  the  great  disap- 
pointment incurred  by  Sir  Thomas  Glover,  "  who 
was  just  come  hither,  and  had  appeared  one  day 
like  a  comet,  all  in  crimson  velvet  and  beaten 
^'old,  but  had  all  his  expectations  marred  on  a 
sudden,  by  the  news  of  Prince  Henry's  death."  A 
^imilar  mischance,  from  a  different  cause,  was  the 
lot  of  Lord  Hay,  who  made  great  preparations  for 
his  embassy  to  France,  which,  however,  were 
chicdy  conhned  to  his  dress.  He  was  to  remain 
there  twenty  days ;  and  the  letter-writer  maliciously 
observes,  that ''  He  goes  with  twenty  special  suits 
of  apparel  for  so  many  days'  abode,  besides  his  tra- 
vclimg  robes ;  but  ne^-s  is  %'ery  latelv  come  that 
the  French  have  lately  altered  their  fashion,  where- 
by he  must  needs  be  out  of  countenance,  if  he  be 
not  set  out  after  the  last  edition  !"'  To  hnd  him- 
self out  of  f.-ishton,  with  twenty  suits  for  twenty 
days,  was  a  misch.ince  his  lordship  had  no  right 
to  count  on ! 

"  The  glass  of  fashion "  was  unquestionably 
held  up  by  two  very  eminent  characters,  Raw- 
lei  oh  and  BunKi.NOHAM  ;  and  the  authentic  facts 
recorded  of  their  dress  will  sufficiently  account 
for  the  frequent  "  Proclamations  "  to  control  that 
servile  herd  of  imitators — the  smaller  gentry  ! 

There  is  a  remarkable  picture  of  Sir  Walter, 
which  will  at  least  serve  to  convey  an  idea  of  the 
gaiety  and  splendour  of  his  dress.  It  is  a  white 
satin  pinked  vest,  close  sleeved  to  the  wrist; 
over  the  body  a  brown  doublet,  finely  flowered 
and  embroidered  with  pearl.  In  the  feather  of 
his  hat  a  large  ruby  and  pearl  drop  at  the  bottom 
of  the  sprig,  in  place  of  a  button ;  his  trunk  or 
breeches,  with  his  stockings  and  ribbon  garters, 
fringed  at  the  end,  all  white,  and  buff  shoes  with 
white  ribbon.     Oldys,  who  saw  this  picture,  has 


thus  described  the  dress  of  Rawletgh.  But  t  have 
some  important  additions ;  for  I  find  that  Raw* 
leigh's  shoes  on  great  court  days  were  k>  gor- 
geously covered  with  prq^iotis  stones,  as  to  htre 
exceeded  the  value  of  six  thousand  six  hundred 
pounds;  and  that  he  had  a  suit  of  armour  of 
solid  silver,  with  sword  end  belt  blazing  with 
diamonds,  rubies,  and  pearis ;  whose  value  was 
not  so  easily  calculated.  Rawlei^  had  no  patri- 
monial inheritance ;  at  this  moment  he  bad  on 
his  back  a  good  portion  of  a  Spanish  galleon,  and 
the  profits  of  a  monopoly  of  trade  he  was  carrying 
on  with  the  newly-discovered  Virginia.  Probably 
he  placed  allhisnopcs  in  his  dress  I  The  virgin 
queen,  when  she  issued  proclamations  again* 
"  the  excess  of  apparel,"  pardoned,  by  her  looks, 
that  promise  of  a  mine  which  blazed  in  Raw- 
Icigh's ;  and,  parsimonious  as  ^c  was,  fbrKoC  the 
three  thousand  changes  of  dresses,  which  me  her- 
self left  in  the  royal  wardrobe. 

Buckingham  could  atlbrd  to  have  his  diamonds 
tacked  so  loosely  on,  that  when  he  chose  to  shake 
a  few  off  on  the  ground,  he  obtained  all  the  fame 
he  desired  from  the  pickers-up,  who  were  gene- 
rally Us  dames  dt  la  ccntr ;  for  our  duke  never 
condescended  to  accept  what  he  himself  bad 
dropped.  His  cloaks  were  trimmed  with  great 
diamond  buttons,  and  diamond  hat-bands,  cock- 
ades, and  ear-rings  voked  with  great  ropes  and 
knots  of  pearls. — Tnis  was.  however,  but  for 
ordinary  dances.  "  He  had  twenty-seven  suits 
of  clothes  made,  the  richest  that  cmbroidcri', 
lace,  silk  velvet,  siU'er,  gold,  and  gems  could 
contribute ;  one  of  which  was  a  white  uncut 
velvet,  set  all  over,  both  suit  and  cloak,  with 
diamonds  valued  at  fourscore  thousand  pounds, 
beside  a  great  feather,  stuck  all  over  with  dia- 
monds, as  were  also  his  sword  girdle,  hat,  and 
spurs.*  In  the  masques  and  banquets  with 
which  Buckingham  entertained  the  court,  be 
usually  expended,  for  the  evening,  from  one  to 
five  thousand  pounds.  To  others  I  lea\*e  to 
calculate  the  value  of  money ;  the  sums  of  this 
gorgeous  wastefulness,  it  must  be  recollected, 
occurred  before  this  million  age  of  ours. 

If,  to  provide  the  means  for  such  enormous  ex- 
penditure, BucKi.VGHAM  multiplied  the  grierancrs 
of  monopolies,  and  pillaged  the  treasury  for  his 
eighty  thousand  pounds'  coat ;  and  RAWLStea 
was  at  length  driven  to  his  bst  desperate  enter- 
prise, to  relieve  himself  of  his  creditors,  for  a 
pair  of  six  thousand  pounds'  shoes— in  both  these 
cases,  as  in  that  of  the  chivalric  Sandricourt, 
the  political  economist  may  perhaps  acknowloige 
that  there  is  a  sort  cf  tuxury  highly  erimimed. 
All  the  arguments  he  may  ur(re,  the  statistical 
accounts  he  may  calculate,'and  the  healthful  tute 
of  his  cireulating  medium  among  *'  the  merchants, 
embroiderers,  silk-men,  and  jewellers  •* — will  not 
alter  such  a  moral  evil,  which  leaves  an  eternal 
taint  in  "the  wealth  of  national"  It  is  the 
principle  that  "  private  vices  are  public  benefits,'* 
and  that  men  may  be  allowed  to  ruin  their  ^enen- 
tions  without  committing  any  Injury  to  society. 


*  The  Jesuit  Drexelius,  in  one  of  his  religious 
dialogues,  notices  the  fact ;  but  I  am  referring  to 
an  Harleian  manuscript,  which  contirma  the  tnfor* 
mation  of  the  Jesuit. 


DISCOVEEIES  OF  SECLUDED  HEX, 


lagatllj,    tnd  II  b  probable.  It 
rding  10  Ibc  jtiict  •igoihcitl'm 


Jklntl^Xannn  «Eid^ 


luikr  thir  thoK  I  (m  preparing  fix  him.  whc 
the  miglttratei  of  Si-nciBe  were  ibowiag  t 
CiCBuu  the  enrioilties  of  the  place,  he  de^ru  t 

tliey  Kknowledged  IbM  (hey  knew' nothlnj  of  uiy 
luch  Iamb,  aniT  dcDinl  Ibal  il  had  net  einteJ. 
The  learned  Cicero,  coovlDced  bjr  (he  authorlli 


to  tbcir  mott  anriem  buniag-imiuiid :  ain^& 
the  numbeT  of  Kputchna,  iIkx  obaerred  a  tmtU 
cojuma  ORihiniK  with  hnmblet-^imD,  Id-'-' — 

niddenlir  exclaimed,  "  Hcfc  li  the  thing  « 
ioiding  for!"  Hil  eye  bad  caugbl  Ibefcromi 
figuTS  on  the  tomb,  and  t\K  imcription 
confinned  hia  conjecture.    Cicero  long  afti 


genioui  dtlien,  had  tt  not  been  djKovct 
Ottta  by  a  native  of  Anrinum  r 

thoo^I,  and  a  iaminoui  tagacih-,  vhicb  rDald 


lentK,    wliich    had    Innj;    perpleied 


tagacity  expliitied  a  suppcucd  hieroglyphic,  which 

Learned  men,  ctmSned  to  their  jiudy,  have 
olten  rectlAed  the  ermn  of  tratellmi  ibey  have 
done  more,  ihey  have  found  uul  path*  for  them 

The  siniai'ton  of  (he  vale  of  Tempe  hid  been 
miXlkca  by  modem  Iravellen ;  and  II  b  iin- 
galar,  obrerx-ea  the  Quarterly    Reviewer,  yc(  lUM 

thai  (De  only  good  directioTu  for  Ending  l(  hid 


atirving 


■crlption  purporting  Ihai  the  pan  of  Tempe  had 

with  equal  lehcKy.  de(ecled,  in  CxuTi  Hi<Ior>' 

(hit  very  penon. 

A linng geographer. lowborn  Ihe  world  tlinda 
deeply  Indebted,  doei  not  read  Herodolna  in  tlie 
origliial ;  yet,  by  (he  eierciie  of  hi»  extraordin^rv 
aptitude,  II  j>  well  knowD  lba(  lie   ha«  olten 


I  c  Hi      _  UM^     now  e 

'udyina  the  geoi^apli 

placed  acnuoH  the  curiou*  idlenev  of  a  mere  ma 


diKoveriea  bv  ihc  auhio 
r  »  cvnical  oh 


policy,  nor  of  tbe  regulation  of  trade,  nor 
Teaearchcaof  a  loUtary  tcholar  in  acaJ^mi 


e  podtkil  reader  all  be  wnhed  10  k-am,  at  a 


in  the  preface  to  Heame't  "  Curioui 
'  The  ametbvtt  proved  more  diilicult 
■mple,  Frvm  (be  Circunmance,  ll):il  in 


528 


DISCOVERIES  OF  SECLUDED  MEN. 


useful  to  the  world,  although  they  may  not  always 
be  timed  to  its  present  wants ;  with  him,  indeed, 
they  are  not  merely  designed  for  this  ourpose. 
Gray  discovered  India  for  himself;  but  the 
solitary  pursuits  of  a  great  student,  shaped  to  a 
particular  end,  will  never  fail  beine  useful  to  the 
world;  though  it  may  happen,  niat  a  century 
shall  elapse  between  the  periods  of  the  discovery 
and  its  practical  utility. 

Halley's  version  of  an  Arabic  MS.  on  a  ma* 
thematical  subject  offieTs  an  instance  of  the  ex- 
traordinary sagacity  I  am  alluding  to;  it  may 
also  serve  as  a  demonstration  of  the  peculiar  and 
supereminent  advantages  possessed  by  mathe- 
maticians, observes  Mr.  Dugald  Stewart,  in  their 
fixed  relations,  which  form  the  objects  of  their 
science,  and  the  correspondent  4>recinon  in  their 
language  and  reasonings:  al' matter  of  literary 
history,  it  is  highlv  curious.  Dr.  Bernard  ac- 
cidentally discovered  in  the  Bodleian  Library  an 
Arabic  version  of  ApoUonius  de  Stctione  Rattonu, 
which  he  determined  to  translate  in  Latin,  but 
only  finished  about  a  tenth  part.  Hallev.  ex- 
tremely interested  bv  the  subject,  but  with  an 
entire  ignorance  of  the  Arabic  language,  resolved 
to  complete  the  imperfect  version  !  Assisted  only 
by  the  manuscript  which  Bernard  had  left,  it 
served  him  as  a  key  for  investigating  the  sense 
of  the  original ;  he  hrst  made  a  list  qf  those  tvords 
wherever  they  occurred,  with  the  train  of  rea- 
soning in  which  they  were  involved,  to  decipher, 
by  these  very  slow  degrees,  the  import  of  the 
context ;  till  at  last  Halley  succeeded  in  mas- 
tering the  whole  work,  and  in  bringing  the 
translation,  without  the  aid  of  any  one,  to  the 
form  in  which  he  gave  it  to  the  public  ;  so  that 
we  have  here  a  difficult  work  translated  from  the 
Arabic,  by  one  who  was  in  no  manner  conversant 
with  the  language,  merely  by  the  exertion  of  his 
sagacity  I 

I  give  the  memorable  account,  as  Boyle  has  de- 
livered it,  of  the  circumstances  which  led  Harvey 
to  the  discovery  of  the  circulation  of  the  blood. 

"  I  remenvber  that  when  I  asked  our  famous 
Harvey,  in  the  only  discourse  I  had  with  him, 
which  was  but  a  little  while  before  he  died,  what 
were  the  things  which  induced  him  to  think  of  a 
circulation  ot  the  blood  ?  he  answered  me,  that 
when  he  took  notice  that  the  valves  in  the  veins  of 
so  many  parts  of  the  bodv  were  so  placed  that  they 
cave  free  passage  to  the  blood  towards  the  heart, 
but  opposed  the  passage  of  the  venal  blood  the 
oontrary  way,  he  was  invited  to  think  that  so 
provident  a  cause  as  nature  had  not  pUced  so 
many  valves  without  design ;  and  no  design 
seemed  more  probable  than  that,  since  the  blood 
could  not  well,  because  of  the  interposing  valves, 
be  sent  by  the  veins  to  the  limbs,  it  should  be  sent 
through  the  arteries  and  return  tiirough  the  veins, 
whose  valves  did  not  oppose  its  course  that  way." 

The  reason  here  ascribed  to  Harvey  seems  now 
so  very  natural  and  obvious,  that  some  have  been 
disposed  to  question  his  claim  to  the  high  rank 
commonly  assigned  to  him  among  the  improvers 
of  science  i  Dr.  William  Hunter  has  said,  that 
after  the  discovery  of  the  valves  in  the  veins, 
which  Harvey  learned  while  in  Italy  from  his 
master,  Fabricius  ab  Aquapendente,  the  remain- 
ing step  might  easily  nave  been  made  by  any 


person  of  common  abilities.  "This  discovery," 
he  observes,  "set  Harvey  to  work  upon  the  uu 
of  the  heart  and  vascular  system  in  animab; 
and  in  the  count  qf  some  years,  he  was  so  happy 
as  to  discover,  and  to  prove  b^ond  all  pos- 
sibility of  doubt,  the  circulation  of  the  blood." 
He  afterwards  expresses  his  astonishment  that 
this  discovery  should  have  been  left  for  Harvey, 
though  he  acknowledges  it  occupied  "a  course 
of  years;"  adding,  that  ** Providence  meant  to 
reserve  it  for  him,  and  would  not  let  men  tee 
xvhat  xvas  before  them,  nor  understand  v/hat  they 
read."  It  is  remarkable  that  when  great  dis- 
coveries are  efliected,  their  simplicity  alwavs  seems 
to  detract  from  their  originality ;  on  tnese  oc- 
casions we  are  reminded  of  the  egg  of  Columbus  1 

It  is  said  that  a  recent  discovery,  which  ascer- 
tains that  the  Niger  empties  itself  into  the 
AUantic  Ocean,  was  really  anticipated  by  the 
geographical  acumen  of  a  student  at  Glasgow, 
who  arrived  at  the  same  conclusion  by  a  roost 
persevering  investigation  of  the  works  of  tra- 
vellers and  geographers,  ancient  and  modem, 
and  examination  of  African  captives;  and  bad 
actually  constructed,  for  the  inspection  of  go- 
vernment, a  map  of  Africa,  on  which  he  had  traced 
the  entire  course  of  the  Niger  from  the  interior. 

Franxlin  conjectured  the  identity  of  lightning 
and  of  electricity,  before  he  had  'realised  it  by 
decisive  experiment.  The  kite  being  raised,  a 
considerable  time  elapsed  before  there  was  any 
appearance  of  its  being  electrified.  One  very 
promising  cloud  had  passed  over  it  without  any 
effect.  Just  as  he  was  beginning  to  despair  <rf 
his  contrivance,  he  observed  some  loose  tnreads 
of  the  hempen  string  to  stand  erect,  and  to  avoid 
ont  another,  just  as  if  they  had  been  suspended 
on  a  common  conductor.  Struck  with  this  pro- 
mising appearance,  he  immediately  presented  his 
knuckle  to  the  key!  And  let  the  reader  judge 
of  the  exquisite  pleasure  he  must  have  felt  at 
that  moment  when  the  discovery  %uas  complete! 
We  owe  to  Priestiey  this  admirable  narrative — 
the  strong  sensation  of  delight  which  Franklik 
experienced  as  his  knuckle  touched  the  ke>-,  and 
when  he  felt  that  a  new  world  was  opening,  might 
have  been  equalled,  but  it  was  probably  not  sur- 
passed, when  the  same  hand  signed  the  long-dis- 
puted independence  of  his  country  ! 

When  Leibnitz  was  occupied  in  his  philoso- 
phical reasonings  on  his  Lanv  of  Continuity,  his  sin- 
gular sagacity  enabled  him  to  predict  a  discovery 
which  afterwards  was  realised — he  imagined  the 
necessary  existence  of  the  pol>'pus ! 

It  has  been  remarked  of  Newton,  that  several 
of  his  slight  hints,  some  in  the  modest  form  of 
queries,  have  been  ascertained  to  be  predictions, 
as  among  others  was  that  of  the  inflammability 
of  the  diamond;  and  many  have  been  eageriy 
seized  upon  as  indisputable  axioms.  A  hint,  at 
the  close  of  his  Optics,  that  **If  natural  philo- 
sophy should  be  continued  to  be  improved  in  its 
various  branches,  the  bounds  of  moral  philosophy 
would  be  enlarged  also,"  is,  perhaps,  among  the 
most  important  of  human  discoveries — it  gave 
rise  to  Hartiev's  Physiological  Theory  e/  the  Mind, 
The  queries,  the  hints,  the  conjectures  of  Nev^ton, 
display  the  most  creative  sagacity ;  and  demon- 
strate in  what  manner  the  dtsco\'eries  of  retired 


SENTIMENTAL  DIOQRAPIIY. 


\,  while  Ihi)'  bcqueith  Ihclt 
secret  Jind  uteni  triumphi- 


pimioniCALCTii^c,  pmbAbljr  oDC  of  tht  juDlunt 

uyi  thii  liiervy  senAloT,  "umcthing  me- 
holy  iD  the  iludy  of  biog^pby,  beuuie  Et.ii 
— >  hiitaiy  of  the  deid  I"  A  (ralun  md  a  lUnv/ 
~iu«t  up  iDgnher,  k  the  tempiiiian  with  some 
lodem  critia  to  commit  that  darling  lin  of 
Ihciii— novelly  «ul  atiglmliHr  r  Bui  wi  tBUljr 
cannot  condole  with  the  rexlcn  of  Plutarch  tor 

ohed  imidit  the  mediocrity  of  Kciely.  when 

I  voukl  have  been  more  reasonable  had  the 
ie  discorered  thai  our  rounlry  bai  itui  >et 
,  her  Plutarch  ]  and  that  our  bjoj^phy  remain 

n  thia  Uudy  of  biO);raphy  there  ii  a  ineclef 
ich  has  not  ret  been  dialin^rihed'-biagTA- 


.  Irawn  from  the  Oieek,  pif'ht,  or  the  kiuI  ; 
for  they  call  Ihia  the  pntkatoglcat  lift.    Another 

-" f  haa  been  made,  by  givmg  it  the  KJentidc 

jf  tdtmncran,  to  OEDDte  a  peculiarity  at 

dbpoiltion.  f  would  call  it  uMinwiital  hagrtfhj ! 
1,  —  '—-^  a  cArtJiafifftdJ  hlograpby 
Jie  individual-!  feellDp  amidit 
the  aKcnataied  facta  of  hii  lifr  i  »  that  facta, 
Ffaich  occurred  remotely  irttra  each  other,  are 
icre  brought  at  once  togetherp  The  detail  of 
v*nr<  whi^k  <>Artih|ela   the  chtODDldGical  bio- 

of  the  cbaractei  Itaelf.    The 
tinct  from  the  auMlMfia^Ay. 

K  entitled  to  lavish  hit  pane^Tlc  on  hitiHclf, 

thingbyappcaling  toaioljtaryandsuipccted 

have  l«o  livei  of  Damtb,  by  Boccaccio  and 


""ofhilflinSd" 


fully  hislorical,  the  other  frau)[ht  with  the  itery 


of  Dante  to  fancifully  poeHcal,  that  probably  Boc- 
toia  it.    anted  under  a  high  laurel-tree,  by  the 


le  boughi,  abe  aavr  him 


Inerrnlly !  for  greatly,  ai  we  iball  aee,  the  effect 

u'ly  dirtb^rw'h'nlbe  «IIne*i  ™f  "he"hea™. 
e-adoming  tbe  earth  with  i»  mingled  Hawen. 
raved  the  green  bouoha,  and  made  all  thin^ 

touaeOf  the  good  citiarn  who  on  that  day  ^ve 
he  featt,  beheld  little  Brict,  ai  the  wai  familiarly 
ailed,   but   named   Bealriee.      The   lilUe   Dante 


Love  in  an  age  of  childhood  f  Boccaccio  appeals 
look,  no  ward,  no  aign,  aullied  the  punt>'  of  hit 

abundant  fountaini  of  tean ;  careleia  of  life,  he 
lei  his  beard  grow  wildly,  and  10  olhen  appeared 
a  lavage  meagre  man,  whoae  aipecl  wai  m 
changed,  that  while  Ibii  weeping   lilt  latted,  be 


byht 


SESTIMESTAL  BIOGRAPnT. 


iiboa  in  life  ;  Abd  fhdt  u  the  deponed  Udy  tud  i 
mIshlDpen  ■Burccordcli^.  The rcluiDiu ind 


m"X"^I 


PrequeDiLy  It  li  like  EeaJing  one  vha  breitiiet  the 
hA  ur  of  ItiJj'  lo  rcfmb  hinuclf  in  Ibf  ctcTul 
dudeiottbeRbodapein  mountiiiu,    whti  phy- 

pvt  In  thethirerfng  murow  ofthe  bonei  mow  utd 

■  ncwtoTC,  tbinkt  to  ntitiRite  theolcL.  Thooewbo 

wCFUld  «e  utisl  or  AdriK  Ibis  foncfol  pastoo,  if  it 
bu  itruck  \a  nxft  near  the  betn  of  him  who  Jong 

lirj  HuH  hu  he  woten  into  the  "  Viu  "  of 

he  UlaliKd,  er  whethn  the  drum  ol  the  nolbet-^ 
Ibe  Miy-diy  inlErview  with  the  little  Brict.  and 
the  mt  of  Ibe  chUdren— ud  (be  eflunoat  od 

would  not  hinhly  reject  lucb  tender  incidents.* 

DawtBi  ud  HIU  [he  Florentines  showed  no  sign  of 
lepeatnA  for  their  Ancient  hitred  of  their  perie- 

regret)  he  could  not  ruse  i  Kitue  10  Duile,  hu 
iposirophc  Id  hii  fcUcWKiitizen ;  but  1  feel  thit 


bioanphy  of  Lm-e,  hoi 


n'delichted  to  (in'd  Ihu  Ihii 


ind  feminine ;  but  these  mike  yaa  noticed  by  the 

m  four  merchnnit  uid  >ODr  jiriistt  1    I  ^eiK  im- 
prudently; bat  the  one  ire  tenuiou^r  ivaricicHii 

by  Ihe  ume  avuice,  is  now  u  corrupVed,  Aod 


no  carefur  yourgrejlpoef.    Your  l>snie  Ali^ieri 
died  inciLile,  to  which  rou  unjustly,  enriom  nt 

mother,  *nd  not   t   cold,  nrglinni  srep-dune. 


SENTIXESTAL  IITOGRAPHT. 


wljj  you  prftctjie  ten  bumiDiir  ihia  the  tur- 
tuiiiiur  You  wiihltuttbe  world  dKiuldbclKve 
thjit  you  He  the  liUer  of  [imoa  Troy,  and  Ihc 
daughter  oF  Rome  \  uniredl)'  the  children  ihoiild 
TCKmUc  theit  fatbcn  vad  their  uiceitors.  priun, 
in  hit  tniteryi  bought  the  corpK  oT  Hector  wilt 
^di  Mid  Kwne  would  mhtb  the  hona  of  ihc 

which,  iyiBf,  ta  Jiuily  he  hid  denied  her.  Enii 
ibea  lo  be  Ihelriu;  giurdlu  of  joar  Dime,  cLdm 


(hough  her  indepeniJ 

ret  Ac  hencif.  In  het  domeMk  hablti,  lired  u  i 
hetmit  in  her  own  cotlefl^  *nd  Ihough  nnly  iC' 
quakdtcd  ivilh  her  native  Lmghue,  thehadculli^ 
TJEed  ber  mind  in  many  pjti  ol  Jcirning^  and  u 


tetialt  tnUecied  lai  ihc 


;  liifton  of  thofe  Iwa  potion 

ihom  the  was  jUied ;  and  k 


rerotda  in  Ihe  Tower.  Ihe  Kolli.  and  oihei  depoii- 
tortn  cf  Dunmcripti  i  tii  ttiae,  we  in  infumicd 
by  Cilpin.  he  lud  Ken  f  iily  Iraucribed  In  three 

I,  compuw  thtie  r^mlly  rccordi 


lion,  iind,  not  having  him 

■hat  if  the  dead  laulfTfeel,  the  bodv  of  Ua 

would  not  rive  to  return  to  yoa,  for  he  is  lying 
In  Ravenna,  whine  haUowed  aoii  ii  everywhere 

remainsof  tbuBC  hatreds  sndlnlq  oil  i;s  which  garc 

among  tkie  bodies  ofemperors  and  of  martyik,aiiil 

(Ur  (here  his  works  ire  looked  on  with  tdmin- 
tlon  i  ihoN  worki  of  which  ytn  have  not  yet 
known  to  nuke  yonnelvcs  worthy.  His  biilh- 
place,  hii  origin,  lemajn  for  yon,  >|Ht  j  rf  your  in- 
gratitude I  and  this  hdvcnna  eBvIci  yuu,  v^lle  she 
glories  in  your  honours  which  she  hd  snatilKd 
from  you  through  ages  yet  (o  come !" 

Such  was  the  deep  crnotion  whicS  opened 
Boccu<la's  heart  in  this  scndmenral  Nastnphy, 
and  awoke  even  sharrte  uvd  confusion  lu  the 
miudsof  (he  Motcniinesi  the* blmlied  (or  their 

Did  hitredi^  md,  with  Dwakened  aymnthics,  they  L  __ .   ....  

liaateocd  to  honour  (he  memon  of  their  ureal   of  private  alTei'llan  \  aiul  how  we  are  at  this  daf 

waa  pnbBclir  retd  ind  explained  (o  the  people,  j  nJiiiiaf  Williain  the  Third,  wlinse  njmc  has  pm- 

Boccacclo,  then  alnkli^  under  the  Intitmitiei  of   hahly 

SI; 


hat  the  public 

heroei  and  oF  ugo,  who 

taining  an  liittnnu  1 

jve  only  failed 

Ahojraphlulmonufnn 

the  udlitv  ol  this  cLut  lY  (rmniiiilii'  bit- 
irtfkj.  It  it  (he  i:fe  of  Robert  Price,  a  Weld) 
uw>er,  anJ  an  anceilor  of  (he  genlletnan  whose 
iiuenuily.  in  out  days,  has  refined  the  principles 
or  (he  pic(Dresque  in  art.  Thb  life  li  animuiued 
—  "  printed  by  the  appoir' ■  -'  "*-  '-—'»■■  -" 


u(tiere 


i(  must  not  he  coniidcm]  m 


(oUI. 


.  le  Third.     He  wai  probahty  oF  Tory 
«u  II"-  viiMv  ui  «a-iiipiwniiM  ^mgnf*j  I  TAuld  '  princj^ei,  for  on  the  arrival  of  the  Dutch  prince, 

m  his  literary  tnrds  on  the  contincitt,  in  pursuit  [  OlanwrgaD.  T^k  new  monircb  has  Dten  4cci»ed 
of  liis  hiitorical  dai^.  He  found,  preserred  of  favaurilimi,  and  of  an  ea^emos  in  ilinweiing 
among  l^-verU  ancient  fandlies  cT  Fruue,  their  exorbitant  grants  on  some  ofhis  foreigners,  which 

worthy  of  imltathni,  they  have  often  carefully  '  spirit  of  En^iditnen.    The  gnod  fa 


w."^m™'?'(. 


P.',KlKi 

s-^SMr^^ 

alt  msy/et  be  viewed  | 

emiyhavetuehapraen 

ii' 


LITEBART  FARALLEU'i. 


nlAbd,  which  grant  wu  coDtirmnl  by  tht  ^pc, 
«ha  HD1  him  a  crown  of  pucock'l  reatbcn.  iD 
JciDgitiDn  D(  hit  power,  tnd  the  porerty  of  hit 

—""  --■;,  by  Ihe"-"'  -' "  ™  -■—  ---■ ^'— 


,ght..Jli. 

----■oiietl  •  topi 

be  procDRd  to  the  kmg,  (o  put 
"Ip  to  the  grint  vow  puing  I'  '"^ 

lliii  Bpeerh  pEoJuc:^  snch  An  eff^ect.  that  the 
dre«9  wu  curicd  unibimoiisty ;  jml  1h<  ' 


tfaeinhei 

patriolfe  ipeech»  br  propoiing  th 


therefore  rrciJk  the  grant!"    On 


.!,':?\X",f',;i; 


pontt  II  yitil.  Such  ws  ih< 
Robert  price,  that  be  wu  mu 
the  very  ■ovcrei|;D  whoK  Ijvoi 
patriot&illy  Ibwuteif 


the  lileorthlsEngnih 


■Itcrwanla  Gcoiw  Ibe  Second,  on  (be  birth  o'  > 
mk.  appeira  jn  thii  hfc ;  ani]  when  (be  prince  in 
dngrace  left  the  palace,  bis  royat  bighim 


■  R^fal  prero)^- 
uvE.  II  DOW  urcairkC  a  l«al  point  lo  vcertun 
"whether  the  educatioD  oT hit  mqeity'i  grand- 
chiJdn^n,  and  the  care  of  their  rruTTiJgei,  &c-, 
beloDged  of  right  Id  hii  Diajoty  ai  king  of  thia 

allowed  of  (he  preroeatire  to  (he  full.  Roberl 
Price  and  another  ju4^  decided  (bat  the  educa- 
tion.  &c.,  wai  (be  right  of  the  father,  although  the 
marriago  waa  thai  of  hii  m^ve*ty  ai  kinaof  tbii 
aim,  yctnoteuluilTeofttacHlDce.lhcn  ~ 

>rm  a  prerogatiue  (or  the  kio^of  thii  realm  (o 
uiing  the  life  and  withD>i(  Ihe  conKnt  of  their 
nriaod!    He  plead)  (or  Ibe  righB  of  a  father, 

inch  were  Ibe  two  great  incidenn  in  the  life  of 


(hii  Welsh  judge  t    Yet  had  the  family  not  found 

Anolher  clasi  of  thil  Knlimnlif  tingTafkj  waa 

ptDjeeied  by  the  lale  Iliiaheth  Hamillon.  Thia 
WH  (0  hare  ccHIHited  of  a  lenra  of  what  the  called 
amfaraint  tair"V*f.  and  an  ancient  character 
waa  to  hare  been  paralleled  by  a  modem  one. 

character  ^  Atjipphit,  (he  laaght  in  modeni 
hiitoTV  for  a  partner  of  ber  own  m.ud  "one 
who,  like  her,  liad  eiperieneed  virisiliidei  of  (in- 
tunc/'  aitd she founil iMxme  better qiiaJiiied  than 
the  prineeB  lulatine.  £tixa^lb,  Ihr  4uugktrT  ^/ 
Jiftui  ttit  Ftitt.  Her  neat  Ufe  wu  to  hv-e  becm 
that  ot  Stnrca,  with  "  the  scema  and  penoni  of 
which  her  lifcot  AKrippina  had  f  jmiliatiied  ber  i" 

Lstiti  which,  well  rruna«d, the  thought,  woDid 
■■ *■ '" ■-«nW      • 


acked   hit  invention  lo  help  out  hit   paraUelt, 
lendinjt  tog^-thcr  (he  1noi(  unconnected  eTeii(t 

inn.  lie  prohahly  made  a  free  ute  of  anf^nenta- 
iiigh(  have  been  ef|iial,  and  yet  not  alike! 
lenof  Mr.Southey'tproiiewould  not  fiil  to  reali^ 
itherLind    u  prodigal  of  immorlal    nimet,  or 


egret  thai  be  hat  only  left  the  pn^ect.  "I  have 
ongm'oh'ediD  myraindavoluincDf  biogtaphical 
rriling  i  the  lien  or  rather  the  cbmcten  of  the 

r^gn  of  Henrv  tbe  Eighth  to  Ihe  prnent  age. 
The  subject  wiiuld  allbrd  a  rich  diiplay  of  humju 

.TMflf  to  the  feelings  of  every  Buglithmjri." 


LiTERARV  fa::.\llels. 
inion  on  (bit  inb)ect  In  Ihe  preceding 


f\ 


^ 


*  '     J,  i 


THE  PEARL  BIBLES,  AND  SIX  THOUSAND  ERRATA, 


533 


diflficulties  throagfa  which  a  parallel  is  pushed,  till 
it  ends  in  a  paradox. 

Hurd  says  of  Petrarch  and  Rousseau — "Both 
were  impelled  by  an  equal  enthusiasm,  though 
directed  towards  different  objects :  Petrarch's  to- 
wards the  glory  of  the  Roman  name,  Rousseau's 
towards  his  idol  of  a  state  of  Nature;  the  one 
religious,  the  other  un  ejprit  fort ;  but  may  not 
Petrarch's  spite  to  Babvlon  be  considered,  m  his 
time,  as  a  species  of  free-thinking?" — ^and  con- 
cludes, that  *'  both  were  mad,  but  of  a  different 
nature."  Unquestionably  there  were  features 
much  alike,  and  almost  peculiar  to  these  two 
literary  characters;  but  I  doubt  if  Hurd  has  com- 
prehended them  in  the  parallel. 

I  now  give  a  specimen  of  those  parallels  which 
hare  done  so  much  mischief  in  the  literary  world, 
when  drawn  by  a  hand  which  covertly  leans  on 
one  side.  An  elaborate  one  of  this  sort  was  com- 
posed by  Longolius  or  Longudl,  between  Budaus 
and  Erasmus.*  This  man,  though  of  Dutch  on- 
cin,  affected  to  pass  for  a  Frenchman,  and,  to  pay 
his  court  to  his  chosen  people,  gives  the  preference 
obliquely  to  the  French  Budaeus ;  though,  to  make 
a  show  of  impartiality,  he  acknowledges  that 
Francis  the  First  had  awarded  it  to  Erasmus ;  but 
probably  he  did  not  infer  that  kings  were  the 
most  able  reviewers  I  This  parallel  was  sent  forth 
during  the  lifetime  of  both  these  great  scholan, 
who  had  long  been  correspondents,  but  the  pub- 
lication of  the  parallel  interrupted  their  friendly 
intercourse.  Erasmus  returned  his  compliments 
and  thanks  to  Longolius,  but  at  the^ame  time  in- 
sinuates a  gentle  hint,  that  he  was  not  over- 
pleased.  "  What  pleases  me  most,"  Erasmus 
writes,  "is  the  just  preference  you  have  given 
Budcus  over  me;  I  confess  you  are  even  too 
economical  in  your  praise  of  him,  as  you  are  too 
prodi^  in  mine.  I  thank  you  for  informing  me 
what  It  is  the  learned  desire  to  find  in  me ;  my 
self-love  suggests  many  little  excuses,  with  which, 
you  observe,  I  am  apt  to  favour  my  deftct$.  If  I  am 
careless,  it  arises  partly  from  my  ignorance,  and 
more  from  my  indolence ;  I  am  so  constituted, 
that  I  cannot  conquer  my  nature ;  I  precipitate 
rather  than  compose,  and  it  is  far  more  irluome 
for  me  to  revise  than  to  write." 

This  parallel  between  Erasmus  and  Budaus, 
though  the  parallel  itself  was  not  of  a  malignant 
nature,  yet  disturbed  the  quiet,  and  interrupted 
the  friendship  of  both.  When  Longolius  dis- 
covered that  the  Parisian  surpassed  the  Hollander 
in  Greek  literature  and  the  knowledge  of  the  civil 
law,  and  wrote  more  learnedly  and  laboriously, 
how  did  this  detract  from  the  finer  genius  and  tne 
varied  erudition  of  the  more  delightful  writer? 
The  parallelist  compares  Erasmus  to  "a  river 
swelling  its  waters  and  often  overflowing  its 
banks;  Budcus  rolled  on  like  a  majestic  stream, 
ever  restraining  its  waves  within  its  bed.  The 
Frenchman  has  more  nerve  and  blood,  and  life, 
and  the  Hollander  more  fulness,  freshness,  and 
colour." 

This  taste  for  bhgrsphical  paralUlt  must  have 
reached  us  from  Plutarch ;  and  there  b  something 
malicious  in  our  nature  which  inclines  us  to  form 

*  It  is  noticed  by  Jortin,  in  his  Life  of  Erasnius, 
vol.  i.  p.  i6o.  I 


comparative  nttmatM,  usually  with  a  view  to  ele- 
vate one  great  man  at  the  cost  of  another,  whom 
we  would  secretly  depreciate.  Our  political  parties 
at  home  have  often  indulged  in  these  fallacious 
parallels,  and  Pitt  and  Fox  once  balanced  the 
scales,  not  by  the  standard  weights  and  measures 
which  ought  to  have  been  used,  out  by  (he  adroit- 
ness of  the  hand  that  pressed  down  the  scale.  In 
literature  these  comparative  estimates  have  proved 
HKMt  prejudicial.  A  finer  model  exists  not  than 
the  parallel  nf  Dryden  and  Pope,  by  Johnson  ;  for, 
without  deugning  any  undue  preference,  his  vigo- 
rous judgment  has  analysed  them  by  his  contrasts, 
and  rather  shown  their  distinctness  than  their 
similarity.  But  literary  parallels  usually  end  in 
producing  parties ;  and,  as  I  have  elsewhere  ob- 
seT\'ed,  often  originate  in  undervaluing  one  man 
of  genius,  for  his  deficiency  in  some  eminent 
quuity  possessed  by  the  other  man  of  genius ;  and 
not  unfrequently  proceed  from  adverse  tastes,  with 
the  conceiaied  design  of  establishing  their  own 
favourite  one.  The  world  of  literature  has  been 
deeply  infected  with  this  folly.  Virgil  probably 
was  often  vexed  in  his  days  oy  a  parallel  with 
Homer,  and  the  Homerians  combated  with  the 
Fifgilians.  Modem  Italy  was  long  divided  into 
sucn  literaiy  sects :  a  perpetual  ucirmishing  is 
carried  on  oetween  the  Jriostoists  and  the  Tas- 
soists;  and  feuds  as  dire  as  those  between  two 
Highland  clans  were  raised  concerning  the  Pe- 
trarchists  and  the  Chiabreritts.  Old  Comeilte  lived 
to  bow  his  venerable  genius  before  a  parallel  with 
Racine ;  and  no  one  has  suffered  more  unjustly  by 
those  arbitrary  criticisms  than  Pope,  for  a  strange 
unnatural  civil  war  has  often  been  renewed 
between  the  Drydenists  and  the  Papists.  Two  men 
of  great  genius  should  never  be  depreciated  by 
the  misapplied  ingenuity  of  a  parallel ;  on  sucn 
occasions  we  ought  to  conclude,  that  they  are 
magis  pares  quam  simile 


THE  PEARL  BIBLES,  AND  SIX  THOUSAND 
ERRATA. 

As  a  literary  curiosity,  I  notice  a  subject  which 
might  nther  enter  into  the  history  of  religion.  It 
relates  to  the  extraordinary  state  of  our  English 
Bibles,  which  were  for  some  time  suffered  to  be 
so  corrupted,  that  no  books  ever  yet  swarmed 
with  such  innumerable  errata. 

These  errata  unquestionably  were  in  great  part 
voluntary  commissions,  interpolated  passages,  and 
meanings  forged  for  certain  purposes ;  sometimes 
to  sanction  the  new  creed  of  some  half-hatched 
sect,  and  sometimes  with  an  intention  to  destroy 
all  scriptural  authority  by  a  confusion,  or  an  omis- 
sion, of  texts — ^the  whole  was  left  open  to  the 
option  or  the  malignity  of  the  editors,  who,  pro- 
bably, like  certain  ingenious  wine-merchants,  con- 
trived to  accommodate  "  the  waters  of  life  "  to 
their  customers'  peculiar  taste.  They  had  also  a 
project  of  printing  Bibles  as  cheaply  and  in  as 
contracted  a  form  as  they  possibly  could,  for  the 
common  people ;  and  they  proceeded  till  it  nearly 
ended  witn  having  no  Bible  at  all :  and,  as  Fuller, 
in  his  "  Mixt  Contemplations  on  better  Times," 
alluding  to  this  circumstance,  with  not  one  of  his 


■«T»" 


•^S 


THE  PEARL  BIBLES  ASD  SIX  THOUSAND  ERRATA. 


a  MhllognpUcil  hlttory 


IIC4  irtikh  fallowed,  l> 

ntirtdjte  uhI  the  Lowk 

if  priDiing  bkbkv.* 

il  hlttory  of  (h«e  tim 


FkM  inliitcd  in  i6u  'hit  wb  »-.- 

t»LC ;  lUudliig,  I  wppoic,  to  thai  d 


kcTp  im  the  pricn  of  Bibkn  i  thrir  comtpani'ci 

whkh  mnni  thrv  rctAiD«l  the  prtrlle^  Id  ttirfr ;  bm  u  ir 


M  Arc  ihlllinp  ■  Iwrk;  which  provnl  the  ntrn  of  I     Tliii 
IhE  hilin  Bihki.  bir  kctpiog  them  dnB  bhIci  the  I  Ihit  he 


ny  Ubcninn  UT^^ett  the 


BnRtuh 'BiUei  in  HoUuxl,  in  j  the  lighl  nr  the  pc 
Rndlish  cotophnn,  for  bilF  Ihe  '  The  cofruplion  v 


cited  by  the  klnH^  printcn,  m 


E .  frODi  the  Hpoitla.    The  ot 


Pittent*,  itid  tJif''i'!(  them  to  eitogiie  pritc-.  !  wnie  or  to  bliiphemy.malingthe  Scnptumco 


PARTICDLAR  PERIOD  OF  THE  STATE,  ic 


ir  one  book  cm  be  mide  to  conuin  near  fou 
[hoi^d  irroTj.  lilUc  ingcnuilr  »M  l^uirtd  I 

ramoui  edillon  at  Ihr  Vulgite  by  Pope  S 
nnh,  1  mcRunbte  book  o[  bJunitcn,  wt 
maiuU  web  high  prkq»  ougbl  now  L_  .^  ._ 
vilue  before  the  runL  biklx,  Ln  twcnty-foun,  of 
Han.  HiUi  uhI  Fkld. 
Mr.  Fhrlil,  and  bh  fmnbj 


Ibj  co«Ijiitor,  Kcm  u 
if  the  rngning  powen 


leeret  biftorr.    Their  engaged  to  pay  ^500  per 

Aon  ffirrf  kii  vi/t,  oul  of  tbc  profiti  of  the  t 
of  their  Bibkt;  dcrtding.iiuullinEiind  Irium 

Ereat  frleiub  ind  purvey  u  if  ibey  weie  tmrle*  1 
fm,  both  from  oHrxux  and  pDGbhmeDt.t  1 
MircbmoDr  Nccdbun  h  ninlcKDtkr  natorioni,  i 

lislnry  i<  probabLr  true :  for  in  «  Mfer- 
Iku  of  thii  UDprlDclpled  Cobbctt  of  bit 


tfot  only  bad  the  Btble  to  10011  IheK  indisnitia 
of  lite  fend  pik:e»  bui  Ibe  Pnfer-boofc  wn  oore 
pnoted  ID  HI  illegible  and  wom-oui  ij-pej  on 

nplied,  Ibat "  il  «•  »  good  ai  Ibe  price  aHorded  1 

t^  he>iV>'  o"  ^0  nuRer  whelhet  il  wu  mil  « 

Tbae  hind'bibLct  of  the  Kctarnb,  vrilh  Ibeir 
tin  thounnd  enata,  Jike  the  (alv  Ducua^  cormd 

when  the  great  Selden,  In  the  tKmbly  of  dlvino, 

cileJ  a  ««'  lo  proie  their  aa«erUon,  "  peihan  in 
)Our  lilUe  pockel-b)bk  vith  gilt  leant,"  wbicb 
Ibey  would  often  pull  oviland  read,  "the  Iniula- 


Bible  full  of  emla.  and  often,  probably^  a 


1,  Oamrd't  Letlet  lo  tbe  Barl  of  9 
iaii.  Ht.  JJte. 


mighly  men  at  i*afi(f  <iii<l 
r1  of  religiom  coquetry,  they 
lally  opening  (beir  gill  pockcl 
d  Ibem  up    a-ith   luch  letf- 


nib  a  pcflecl  Ignorance  of  ufred  or  of  ancieni 

for  Ihb  Hiange  naion,  (but  bib  wu  bronghl  Irum 

-'--':  "pM^hlr  Ibe  luh  in  iguestiua  »u  sailed," 
■ilenccd  theve  acule  dnputanti. 
would  probably  hare  greatlir  dbcompoKd 

Ti  Ihat  the  Sniptum  had  ncitbei  (hiuter  nor 

e  T    II  il  by  no  meam  cleat  how  ibe  holy 

wiilingi  were  ancienlly  diriiled,  ami  Mill  Im  hnw 

quoted  or  referred  to.    The  bonour  nl  the  inven- 


preface  to  hi»  Corn 
Mnned  during  a  Ji 

thank 


itermcdialE  baiti,  he  ^aa  rci^citcJ  all  powilile 
■■-'■-  '--  thii  employment  of  hia  lime.    Two 


!■  followed,  ■■  a  » 


k'E'  i"?ErareTf  SJ 


PARTrCUlAS  PERIOD  OF  THE  STATE  OF 


TbcK  ucctic  pcrunco  were  afterwards  luccHdn 
In  Ebe  niEion  by  in  isn  of  hypocritical  uiKlily 

KpA  of  iminorAlJty,  cboiiDg  with  Impiety.  Tht 
would  be  A  dreutul  picture  of  ictigicqi.  If  li^f  i 
mament  we  ntppoKd  that  it  were  rr^rfwi ;  tha 


lireifto  proTc  tlwt  Tolly  and  iricki 


The  IL^  of   Sir  Symoni 
irough  the  timei  of  Chaj 


menD.     But  thii  leligiaui  i^  of  Chutci  the  Pint 
which  tubtequeotly  prcviiled  among  the  peofitf 


rdigioui 

period 

ram  (111  truth 

1  lonpr  im- 

religion  with  it 

'"'*^..'^ 

and  t  phlecmatic  anticmary,  Sir  Symonds  withal 
waiaaealousChurchof BnglnidPratalHil.  Yet 
imldit  the  myitical  alluaiou  of  an  afte  of  rcligitnu 
contrDreniei,  we  Ke  them  cloK  in  me  tcena  we 
are  ahoot  to  open,  and  And  thit  quiet  genlletniD 
tormenting  bimielf  and  hii  lady,  by  watching  for 

I  ^re  an  extract  fhKn  the  manuxrlpl  diary, 
"T  tpcDt  tha  day  chiefly  in  prrualt  /Atiiagt 
prayer^  and  other  leli^ou*  exerciKi.  Thii  wai 
the  fine  time  that  I  ever  praclited  thb  duty, 
baring  alwayi  bcToTC  declined  it,  by  rcuon  of  the 
rapliti'  HipcntitiDui  abuiei  of  it.  I  had  pirtiken 
formerly  of  fuNic  Aili,  but  never  ^new  the  uk 
and  benefit  of  the  tame  duty  peifonned  alone  In 

private.  In  tbcte  piiTticulirT.  I  had  my  knowledge 
much  enlarged  by  the  rcligiDUs  convene  I  enjoyed 
at  AlbuTy  Lodge,  for  there  alw  1  shortly  after 


on  fa^nc  by  Hr.  Hmy 
ule.  tbu  Qintuut  ooghl 
'  their  ordinary  hnmiBa' 

ly  health  will  permit  me. 


fatlief,  1   perfbrn^cd  it   nmetiDiei   lwi< 
ended  the  dutia  of  the  day,  and  took  h 


a  itlalirvi  V'  ■"  "J  iirwi  iim.  orderly.    Tbeie 
were  all   lini  of  liuftnily  ,    lot,   tluDugh    God't 

luuTy,  canhng,  dicing,  miit  dancing,  and  the 

I'uadcd  th"w^unli«f™  "tuI  't'^^iJui 
'       ■     ^ngli>h 


of  repeniance,  having  bi 


tigt,  and  finished  nr  wJUr 


inched  the  margent  with 


loTt  and  repovedneia  of  rplnt  from  th 
ihowa  the  devilish  nphiami  of  "' 


"  My  wife  j<^ned  with  me  In  a  private  day  of 


RELIGION  IN  OUR  CIVIL  WARS. 


537 


k>rd»  knowing  her  hours  nf  praytrs^  once  conr^ed 
a  ecKlly  mintster  into  a  ucrtt  place  within  heanng, 
who,  being  a  man  rery  able  to  judge,  much 
admired  her  humble  fervency ;  for  in  praytns  she 
prayed;  but  when  she  did  not  with  an  audible 
voice,  her  sighs  and  groans  might  be  heard  at  a 
good  distance  from  the  closet."  We  are  not  sur- 
prised to  discover  this  practice  of  religious  diaries 
among  the  more  Puritanic  sort :  what  they  were 
we  may  gather  from  the  description  of  one.  Mr. 
John  j'ancway  "  kept  a  diary,  in  which  he  wrote 
down  every  evening  what  the  frame  </  hu  spirit 
had  been  ali  that  day;  he  took  notice  what  in- 
comes he  had,  what  prejit  he  receired  in  his 
spiritual  traffic ;  what  returns  came  from  that  far 
country ;  what  anrwers  of  prayer,  what  deadness 
and  flatness  of  spirit,  &c."  And  so  we  find  of  Mr. 
John  Carter,  that  "  He  kept  a  day-book,  and  cast 
up  his  accounts  with  God  every  day."  To  these 
worldly  notions  had  they  humiliated  the  spirit  of 
religion  :  and  this  style,  and  this  mode  of  religion, 
has  long  been  continued  among  us,  even  among 
men  of  superior  acquisitions ;  as  witness  the 
"Spiritiial  Diary  and  Soliloquies"  of  a  learned 
physician  of  our  own  times.  Dr.  Rutty,  which  is  a 
great  curiosity  of  this  kind.* 

Such  was  the  domestic  state  of  many  well- 
meaning  families :  they  were  rejecting  with  the 
utmost  abhorrence  every  resemblance  to  what 
they  called  the  idolatry  of  Rome,  while,  in  fact, 
the  gloom  of  the  monastic  cell  was  settling  over 
the  nouses  of  these  melancholy  Puritans.  Private 
fasts  were  more  than  ever  practised ;  and  a  lady, 
said  to  be  eminent  for  her  genius  and  learning, 
who  outlired  this  era,  declared,  that  she  had 
nearly  lost  her  life  through  a  pre%'alent  notion 
that  no  fat  person  could  get  to  Heat/en ;  and  thus 
spoiled  and  wasted  her  body  through  excessive 
fastings.  A  Quaker,  to  prove  the  text  that  "  Man 
shall  not  live  by  bread  alone,  but  by  the  word  of 
God,"  persisted  in  refusing  his  meals.  The  literal 
text  proved  for  him  a  dead  letter,  and  this  practical 
commentator  died  by  a  metaphor.  This  Quaker, 
however,  was  not  the  only  victim  to  the  letter  of 
the  text ;  for  the  famous  Origen,  by  interpreting 
in  too  literal  a  way  the  lath  verse  of  the  19th  of 
St.  Matthew,  which  alludes  to  those  persons  who 
become  eunuchs  for  the  kingdom  of  heaven, 
armed  himself  with  his  own  hands  against  him- 
self, as  is  sufficiently  known.  "  Retountons  h  nos 
moutons.'*  The  parliament  afterwards  had  both 
periodical  and  occasional  fasts;  and  Charles  the 
First  opposed  "  the  hypocritical  fast  of  ever>- 
Wednesday  in  the  month,  by  appointing  one  for 
the  second  Friday :"  the  two  unhappy  parties, 
who  were  hungering  and  thirsting  for  each  other's 
blood,  were  fasting  m  spite  one  i^inst  the  other. 

Without  inquirmg  into  the  causes,  even  if  we 
thought  that  we  could  ascertain  them,  of  that 
frightful  dissolution  of  religion  which  so  long  pre- 
vailed in  our  country,  and  of  which  the  very  cor- 
ruption it  has  left  behind  still  breeds  in  monstrous 
shapes,  it  will  be  sufficient  to  observe,  that  the 
destruction  of  the  monarchy  and  the  ecclesiastical 
order  was  a  moral  earthquake,  overturning  all 

*  Tlie  Lives  of  sundry  eminent  Persons  in  this 
later  Age ;  by  Samuel  Clarke.  Fo.  1683.  A  rare 
volume,  with  curious  portraits. 


minds,  and  opening  all  chanses. — A  theological 
logomachy  was  substituted  by  the  sullen  and  proud 
ascetics  who  ascended  into  power.  These,  with- 
out wear>-ing  themselves,  wearied  all  others,  and 
triumphed  over  each  other  by  their  mutual  obscu- 
rity. The  two  great  ciants  in  this  theological  war 
were  the  famous  Richard  Baxter  and  Dr.  Owen. 
They  both  wrote  a  library  of  books ;  but  the  end- 
less controversy  between  them  was  the  extraor- 
dinary and  incomprehensible  subject,  whether  the 
death  of  Christ  was  tolutio  ejusdem,  or  only  tantun- 
dem ;  that  is,  whether  it  was  a  payment  of  the 
very  thing,  which  bv  law  we  ought  to  have  paid, 
or  of  something  held  by  God  to  be  equivalent. 
Such  was  the  point  on  which  this  debate  lasted 
without  end,  between  Owen  and  Baxter  t 

Yet  these  metaphysical  absurdities  were  harm- 
less, compared  to  what  was  passing  among  the 
more  hot  fanatics,  who  were  for  acting  the  wild 
fancies  which  their  melancholy  brains  engendered  ; 
men,  who  from  the  places  into  which  they  had 
thrust  themseWes,  might  now  be  called  "the 
higher  orders  of  society !"  These  two  parties  alike 
sent  forth  an  evil  spirit  to  walk  amon^  the  multi- 
tude. Every  one  would  become  his  own  law- 
maker, and  even  his  own  prophet ;  the  meanest 
aspired  to  give  his  name  to  his  sect.  All  things 
were  to  be  put  into  motion  according  to  the  St. 
Vitus's  dance  of  the  last  new  saint.  ''Away  with 
the  Law !  which  cuts  off  a  man's  legs  and  then 
bids  him  walk  !"  cried  one  from  his  pulpit.  "  Let 
believers  sin  as  fast  as  they  will,  they  have  a  foun- 
tain open  to  wash  them,"  declared  another 
teacher.  We  had  the  Brotvnistj,  from  Robert 
Brown,  the  f^aneists,  from  Sir  Harry  Vane,  till  we 
sink  down  to  Mr.  Traske,  Mr.  Wilkinson,  Mr. 
Robinson,  and  H.  N.,  whose  name  has  never  been 
revealed,  besides  Mrs.  Hutchinson,  and  the  Grin- 
dletonian  family,  who  preferred  "motions  to 
motives,"  and  conveniently  assumed,  that  "  their 
spirit  is  not  to  be  tried  by  the  Scripture,  but  the 
Scripture  by  their  spirit."  Edwards,  the  author  of 
'*  Gangrxna,"  tho  adversary  of  Milton,  whose 
work  may  still  be  preserved  foiir  its  curiosity,  though 
immortalised  by  the  scourge  of  genius,  has  fur- 
nished a  list  of  about  two  hundred  of  such  sects 
in  these  times.  A  divine  of  the  church  of  England 
observed  to  a  great  sectary,  "You  talk  of^  the 
idolatry  of  Rome ;  but  each  of  you,  whenever 
you  have  made  and  set  up  a  calf,  will  dance 
about  it." 

This  confusion  of  religions,  if,  indeed,  these 
pretended  modes  of  faith  could  be  classed  among 
religions,  disturbed  the  consciences  of  good  men, 
who  read  themselves  in  and  out  of  tneir  vacil- 
lating creed.  It  made,  at  last,  even  one  of  the 
Puritans  themselves,  who  had  formerly  complained 
that  they  had  not  enjoyed  sufficient  freedom 
under  the  bishops,  cry  out  against  "  this  cursed 
intolerable  toleration."  And  the  fact  is,  that 
when  the  Presbyterians  had  fixed  themselves  into 
the  government,  they  published  several  treatises 
against  toleration!  T^e  narallel  between  these 
wild  notions  of  reform,  and  those  of  another  cha- 
racter, run  closely  together.  About  this  time 
well-meaning  persons,  who  were  neither  enthu- 
siasts from  the  ambition  of  founding  sects,  nor  of 
covering  their  immorality  by  their  impiety,  were 
infected  with  the  religioja  insania.    One  case  may 

— 


PARTKULAR  PERIOD  OF  TBE  STATE  OF 


Uod  to  mitir.    A  Mt.  OmwDid,  I  gtntlnn 
■■  -    ■  ^  hire,  whom  (  BnwniM  )ud  tn^  dc 


boughl  thlt  everything  hi 


■onltoB,  ind  cymlhtng 


iippened  hen— u  igcoT  impiety  1    Society  ibrlf 
ecmed  diwlvcd,  For  every  tie  wu  iinlooKiKil  of 

>u  itnn^ky  rkolHtedi     From  fbe  H 

If  the  Bimpic  PuTiuu.  the  next  itt[_ 

'.aliiag  the  ni^Lee  ^  linen  ng  on  the  tuck  j 
— .: —  .  rt.j.. ^  bihy'i  ' 


iiiei.  the  r 
tar,  served  lof  the  foi 


pitrpotet-      The  liberty  whac 


lupiiied,  und  the  nime  Iberaiue  i  hild  Colt) 
viu  ciUed  Bul-Rci  I  lilt"  The  wjiet  they 
iprinkled  frein  the  Kldiei^  helmet  on  Ihii  oeo- 

ind  pin  In  the  lume  of  (he  Tnnity,  huig  pulnu 
leini  thu  Ihef  Rfnted  to  pij-  rent"  1 


ftnttitulfcoQ  WKi  ptofened  u  ■  Tthetoo*  Kt^  m 
^axlB  wu  deeUred  to  be  «  prophet,  >ih1  dK 
wom»ll  he  cohabited  with  wii  uid  to  be  indy  U 
lie  in  of  the  Newih,    A  mtn  mniried  bit  father^ 


tomed  the  people  to  contemplate  li 

dTinklpR  t  health  on  hii  kneea.  In 
iDwn, ''(□  Ibe  devlU  that  it  migbl 
Tatnily  ihould  nut  be  exILnirt  wiltu 

Agnew,  commonly  called  "Joci 

■loa  not  leem  to  den;  the  exIiIcDc 


for  Ood  bad  given  him  nothinc; 
ohUged  to  God  than  to  Ibe  dert, 
^  gRcdy.    Neither  God  nor  (be 


Ihegreatat 
ptcnbylety  I 


odoubr  bad  been  taoght  by  the 

"Take  ■  larkfulof  pti]ren  Id  Ih-  mill  and  griod 
them,  aod  take  your  breakiia  nf  them."  To 
othcn  he  laid,  "  I  will  rave  you   a  twopence,  and 


wiib  huioocki  ready  baked. 

The  eatnvagapt  ferroar  then  working  in  the 
mindt  of  the  people  la  marked  by  the  Botr  toM 
by  Clemcni  Walker,  of  the  nldier  who  intned  • 


RELIGION  I.Y  OUR  CIVIL   WARS. 


inlo  the  ehurcbvanl,  lad  Ibc  wind  blDHiiiBUning, 
he  (Duld  not  kindle  hii  cindln,  ind  Ihi:  new 
prophet  wu  iwkwinlljr  nunpeUed  u  conclude 
hb  Ktc  deoDuDcancnn,  •hoUifalaa  Ihe  Itahbath, 
tilbo,  minulen,  mugutnta,  (nd,  •[  In),  Ihe 
Bible  incK,   wllboDt  potllng  out  eicb  undle, 


ight.  but  (be  wind  i>  k  hi^b  IhM  I 
1  perfect  Kent  ot  Ihe  effecu  which  (bli  ■ 


piirluflkilL/iDelinnl,  butlhcRCiin  beoociJigfEc- 
nilonin  &  pLahi  dtf'iil  or  ricli.    HelcHiBTcmark- 

Uncuhiie,  it  >  place  called  Cailmcl :  Kmeoribe 


It;  1  people  jcrr^ 


folpil.    One  £v,  an  odd  i 
■nnngh  in  oilier  lhio|p,  ai 


]g  In  Ihe  paiMi  of 

u  biirinr»i  T  Told 


iped  10  he  infcmned  in  hi 


lebdoBS^ 

IV  God!  Ihi 

Eilnhe*  he^uBhl  to  Itcui-ed?   Meuntcced 

^       ■        'itlhatw»atavder 

d  bim  (bal  the  way 

1.  Cod-man.  whoai 

nl  hii  bkwil  Ibr  ua  on  (be  crm,  &c, 

idill,  failed  Corpui- 


be  cnnlil  wK  tell. 


r.  Hid  he,  1 1 


^S  play,  where  there  yr. 

drun  doo-n,  he.    AndannwaroineiirD 

onid  not  nmnnbet  tbil  be  eicr  beard  r 

m  hf  lens,  but  In  tbal  play-" 

ne  Keori  paaiag  In  Ihe  metrspolli,  ai 


Ader   noticin 


l™0  ml^lify  n 
■;  ahophoard  ar 


*aiignaunto'l!i.ii3«n.—  """^    "'" 

Bi.n  rng  t'he.r  cloudy  viitom  10  dccL.re. 

T>U  Ihey  li»e  loil  the  nalio«  whicb  Ihey  bad, 

Sncb  ii  the  picture  of  Ihe  folly  and  a(  Ihe 


opinlom."  anil  Ibia  war  enfmced  Hilh  tt"'" 

dMenpctcd  in  hia  bnim,  wbo  ihall  numiain  any 
mere  irealure  to  be  Ondi  ot  Ibat  all  acn  of 
onirKhtcouaneB  are  ml  fortiidilen  In  Ihe  ^■(crlp- 
Inm ;  or  that  God  approves  of  them  ;  or  Eh^l 
e.il.ic™  "™'      *"'"""'*  "^ 

To  thia  dlaordered  Uale  w»  (lie  rnWn  mind 


fortj'y  blmxlf  afplou  the  rcsenlirMmt  of  Jamtt" 
matibfttbeD  JameiwulatlerlyhcjrinKvi'cr}'  day 
Bu^'kini^m-— "  lud  i^hxtcd  pnpiiLirili't  and  en- 
ward»t  bclnf  lecnrenF  Ihe  roDtiJcriL-c  ol  Charlci, 
"a  moie    enpoted  to  their  haired 


The  polMlcal  coquetry  of  a  mlnlrier  coaleacit>j| 
inl"  bS!™"d™  ''^^'>^d  S^b"™"n"^ 


110  Ionia,  by  liiM  trynu  their  re 
I  perfo:!  conriciUni,  bow  htUe  ih 


54°  BVCKISaiTAX-S  rOLlTICAL  COQUETRT  WITH  THE  PURITANS. 


1  (Kb  otbet,  ind  Ihi)  carb  piRy  loma  lo  cbm 

Th»  piece  ot  ■«r«  hiittny  i>  in  pitt  lectrrei 
^Lc  from  BDDil  luthnrity-  The  two  grul  Artor 
cTC  tbe  Duke  of  Burkingtuin  ind.  Di.  Pmloii 


thuAnice  honoured  u  m  gueat  i  l  nivpicion 
I  PuriUnic  princlplo  wB  pectupt  the  only 
]e  to  his  court  preferrncot :  yet  Pieston  un- 

hdnwing  thv  docior  Tmin  the  Mpo^tion 
AodccmmArdedlherMvouT  of  Durkinghun 


ra 


pointed  one  it  Ibe  cbaplilni  ol  rriuce  Chitlei, 
.  PrcKDfl  htd  the  idvutige  of  being  in  frequent 

Mch  in  bit  hi^nev'B  beJchvnhi:r.'*    A  cIo« 
rkingtum  ip- 


nli^n  ID  thE  duke'i  dc 


■nd  (heir  nouhii 

winded  the  duke  cinuilcnuly,-^he  vUThnl  ■!  him 


lubterTTineoutly,      TJsb   viwy 


of  the  people  wu  hii  only  inchor,  which  could 

Cjtthednli  and  ci>llef^ate  churchn  mAinliined  by 
TU  wealth,  and  the  lands  of  the  chapter,  oaly  led 

would  open  in  ample  Hmrcc  to  pay  the  kiiig'4 
debts,  and  acalter  Ibe  ttrearru  of  pattouaEe. 
*'  You   voiLld   then    become  Ihe   darhng   of  ibe 


woods  HHaltiei,  lylhei,  tec,"  It  would  be  (ur- 
niihing  ihe  winti  of  ■  number  of  gentlemen, 
'  ■■     qurKed  a  Greek  pTO^■eT^l, "  that  when  a 


faR-m." 


.  grejLt  part  of  the  knij^hri  auJ  hurw«et  wxuld 


Wbcn  James  died  at  TIicdImUIl  where  Dr.  Presto 
happened  to 


ancei  which  haic  Often  put »  end  lo  ton- 
wet  what  the  oiber  thinki  of  Iiiin. 

m.    U'hen  the  Pimtinic  piny  toolnhly  be- 
:  root  and  branch  for  their  puipcw,  they 


.  his  opportunity  of  asking  him  what  be  bad 

ton,   m   amazement,    denied    the    faft,   aiid 
red  forth  pmlestions  of  tionouv  and  F;rjijinde, 


SlJi  EDWARD  COKE'S  EXCEPTIONS,  ^e. 


541 


morning.  The  baffled  politician  was  turned  out 
of  Wallingford  House,  never  more  to  see  the  en- 
raged minister!  And  from  that  moment  Buck- 
ingham  wholly  abandoned  the  Puritans,  and  cul- 
tivated the  friendihip  of  Laud.  Thb  happened 
soon  after  Jame*  the  First's  death.  Wotton  adds, 
*•  This  story  I  heard  from  one  who  was  extremely 
well  versed  in  the  secret  history  of  the  time."* 


SIR  HOWARD  COKE'S  EXCEPTIONS  AOAINST 
THB  HIGH  SHERIFF'S  OATH. 

A  cuRioot  fact  will  show  the  rerolutionanr  na- 
ture of  human  ei-ents,  and  the  necessity  of  cor- 
recting our  ancient  statutes,  which  so  frequently 
hold  out  punishments  and  penalties  for  objects 
which  have  long  ceased  to  De  criminal ;  as  well 
a«  for  persons  agxin«t  whom  it  would  be  barbarous 
to  allow  some  unrepealed  statute  to  operate. 

^"Iien  a  political  stratagem  was  practised  by 
Charles  the  First  to  keep  certain  members  out  of 
the  house  of  commons,  by  pricking  them  down 
as  sheriti^  in  their  different  counties,  among  them 
was  the  celebrated  Sir  Bowaro  Coki.  whom  the 
government  had  made  High  Sheriff  for  Bucks. 
It  was  necessary,  perhaps,  to  oe  a  learned  and  prac- 
tned  lawyer  to  discover  the  means  he  took,  in  the 
height  of^his  resentment,  to  elude  the  insult.  This 
great  lawyer,  who  himself,  perhaps,  had  often  ad- 
ministered the  oath  to  the  sheriffs,  and  which  had, 
century  after  century,  been  usual  for  them  to  take, 
to  the  surprise  of  ail  persons,  drew  up  Exceptions 
against  the  Sheriff's  Oath,  declaring  that  no  one 
could  take  it.  Coke  sent  his  Exceptions  to  the 
attorney-general,  who,  by  an  immediate  order  in 
council,  submitted  them  to  "  all  the  iudges  of 
England."  Our  leg^al  luminary  had  condescended 
only  to  some  ingenious  caWlling  in  three  of  his 
exceptions ;  but  Uie  fourth  was  of  a  nature  which 
could  not  be  overcome.  All  the  judges  of  Eng- 
land assented,  and  declared,  that  there  was  one 
part  of  thii  ancient  oath  which  was  perfectly  Irre- 
ligious, and  must  ever  hereafter  be  left  out  I  Thb 
article  was, "  That  you  shall  do  all  your  pain  and 
diligence  to  destroy  and  make  to  cease  all  manner 
of  nere^ies,  commonly  called  Lollarus,  within 
yoor  bailiwick,  &c."t  The  Lollards  were  the 
most  ancient  of  Protestants,  and  had  practised 
Luther's  sentiments ;  it  wait,  in  fact,  condemning 
the  established  religion  of  the  country  I  An  order 
was  issued  from  Hampton  Court,  for  the  abroga- 
tion of  thi«  part  of  the  oath ;  and  at  present  all 
high  sherifis  owe  this  obligation  to  the  resentment 
of  Sir  Edward  Coke,  for  havine  been  pricked 
down  as  Sheriff  of  Bucks,  to  be  kept  out  of  par- 
liament t  The  merit  of  having  the  oath  changed, 
inttanttr,  he  was  allowed ;  but  ne  was  not  excused 


*  Wotton  delivered  this  memorandum  to  the 
literary  antiquar>',  Thomas  Baker;  and  Kennet 
transcribed  it  in  his  Manuscript  Collections.  Lans- 
downe  mss.  No.  93a— 88.  Tne  life  of  Dr.  Preston, 
in  Chalmers's  Biographical  Dictionary,  may  be 
consulted  with  advantage. 

t  Rushworth's  Hbtorical  Collections,  vol.  I. 
p.  199. 


taking  it,  after  it  was  accommodated  to  the  con* 
scientious  and  lynx-eyed  detection  of  our  enraged 
Uwver. 


SECRET  HISTORY  OF  CHARLES  1.  AND  RfS 
nRST  PARLIAMENTS. 

The  reign  of  Charles  the  First,  succeeded  by 
the  Commonwealth  or  England,  forms  a  period 
unparalleled  by  any  preceding  one  in  the  annals 
of  mankind.  It  was  for  the  English  nation  the 
great  result  of  all  former  attempts  to  ascertain  and 
to  secure  the  just  freedom  of  the  subject.  The 
prerogative  of  the  sovereign,  and  the  rights  of  the 
people,  were  often  imagined  to  be  mutual  in- 
croachments ;  and  were  long  involved  in  contra- 
diction, in  an  age  of  unsettled  opinions  and  dis- 
puted principles.  At  length  the  conflicting  parties 
of  monarchy  and  democracy,  in  the  weaKness  of 
their  passions,  discovered  how  much  each  required 
the  other  for  its  protector.  This  age  offers  the 
finest  speculations  in  human  nature;  it  opens  a  ' 
protracted  scene  of  glory  and  of  infamy ;  all  that 
elevates,  and  all  that  humiliates  our  kind,  wrestling 
together,  and  expiring  in  a  career  of  glorious 
deeds,  of  revolting  crimes,  and  even  of  ludicrous 
infirmities ! 

The  French  Revolution  is  the  commentary  of 
the  English ;  and  a  commentary  at  times  more 
important  than  the  text  which  it  elucidates.  It 
has  thrown  a  freshness  over  the  antiquity  of  our 
own  history  ;  and,  on  returning  to  it,  we  seem  to 
possess  the  feelings,  and  to  be  agitated  by  the 
interests,  of  contemporaries.  The  circumstances 
and  the  persons  which  so  many  imagine  had 
passed  away,  have  been  reproducea  under  our  ovrn 
eyes.  In  other  hbtories  we  accept  the  knowledge 
of  the  characters  and  the  incidents  on  the  evidence 
of  the  historian  ;  but  here  we  may  take  them  from 
our  own  conviction,  since  to  extinct  names  and  to 
past  events  we  can  apply  the  reality  which  we 
ourselves  have  witnessed. 

Charles  the  First  had  scarcely  ascended  the 
throne  ere  he  discovered,  that  in  hb  new  parlia- 
ment he  was  married  to  a  sullen  bride  :  the  youth- 
ful monarch,  with  the  impatience  of  a  lover,  warm 
with  hope  and  glory,  was  ungraciously  repulsed 
even  in  the  tint  favours !  The  prediction  of  his 
father  remained,  like  the  handwriting  on  the  wall ; 
but,  seated  on  the  throne,  Hope  was  more  con- 
genial to  youth  than  Prophecy. 

As  soon  as  Charles  the  First  could  assemble  a 
parliament,  he  addressed  them  with  that  earnest- 
ness, whose  simplicity  of  words  and  thoughts 
strongly  contrasted  with  the  oratorical  harangues 
of  the  fate  monarch.  It  cannot  be  alleged  against 
Charles  the  First,  that  he  preceded  the  parliament 
in  the  war  of  words.  He  courted  their  affections ; 
and  even  in  his  manner  of  reception,  amidst  the 
dignity  of  the  regal  office,  studiously  showed  hb 
exterior  respect  by  the  marked  solemnity  of  their 
first  meeting.  As  yet  uncrowned,  on  the  day  on 
which  he  first  addressed  the  Lords  and  Commons, 
he  wore  hb  crown,  and  vailed  it  at  the  opening, 
and  on  the  close  of  his  speech  j  a  circumstance  to 
which  the  parliament  had  not  been  accustomed* 
Another  ceremony  gave  still  greater  solemnly  to 
the  meeting;  the   king  would  not  enter  into 


SECRET  niSTORY  OF  CHARLES  I. 


hiulneu  1111  (bey  htd  nnilcd  in  ajvfer.  He  coni' 
m'nilc^  the  doon  Id  be  cli«efl,  *ih1  k  bubop  to 

trpecleil  comnunil  diKoneeited  the  Citholic  lonb, 

■tood :  there  WM  one  BojUed  ?»ptlt  who  did  BO- 
tbW  but  trrm  hlnucjr!* 

The  speech  maybe  round  in  Hushwottb^  the 
friendly  lone  muit  be  >hown  here, 

pleued  (oempLovme  toutviie  my  fithcria  bre^ 
off  the  Ireuia  '(wiih  Spiin).  1  crime  into  Ihia 
biuhu««  vilLlngly  utd  Ireely,  Uke  i  young  inui» 
ud  coDirqaenlly  nibly ;  t>ul  \t  wu  by  yoUT  JD- 
tcra)--)(nr  engigeRient.  I  pray  you  remember, 
■hU  (hit  being  my^'itulw-i.  and  beKun  hy;"!!' 
mdvia  and  tnlrtaly,  what  ■  great  dishunDur  i1 
were  10  you  and  me  that  it  would  fail  lor  that 

Thii  eiTmion  eaciled  no  lympalhy  in  Ihe  home. 
Tticy  voted  not  a  ictenth  part  nf  the  eipendituie 
necaaary  to  proceed  with  a  war,  into  which  they 
tbemielva  bad   Torced  the  king,  as  a  popum 


iHUfliclent  grant,  "  far  ihort  lo  aet  forth  the  ni 
no*  preparing."    The  ipeech  prciefva  the  ta 

sliUnoccboof  kindneiiTcipoiided  in  thehoti 

bling  manneT.  that  "  thongh  a  former  paTliani< 

maniKnf  by  a  cootnry  deiign,  ani  Ihe  Ireai 
miaemployed)  rtu  furliamnl  U  Ml  taund 
mtlur  parlumtm  :••  and  they  iddcil  a  tr 
■WKknr,  Ihal "  the  king  ahoalilhelp  the  cauH 


Ktithno  about  grievances  wbtch  II  had  heei 
JiScull  lo  ipedly.  In  Iheir  "  Deeliration  "  Ihe 
ftyle  hit  Majcny  "  Our  dear  and  drud  wecielgn; 

concede  no  point — they  offer  no  aid  T    The  king 


he  made  unto  Ibetn  ':'    On  the  pretence  1 
plune  ai  Uaford,  charJe)  prorooued  parUamenl, 
with  a  pTomiK  to  reaiBemble  in  the  winter^ 


gnerancei,  there  can  noc  be  »  moeh  MHUiry  JW 

e  army  and  fleet,  in  a  bad  wiami.  but  br  boc- 

wlng  money . 


Me.     They  tf 


li  was  a>  (mail  aa  the  ayle 


■i-rez 


nndi  I    Tbe  king  wna 

>nailou  were  rcechroi, 
ihillinp  ;  thii  waa  tbe 

withncb 


from  the  d^  o(  Charln  Ihe  Fim  to  tbuc  of  Se 
preat  Lord  Chalham,  and  10  our  own — osocluded 
m  a  nuUily  T  Charlet,  diaappoinled  in  Ehia  picda. 
lory  attempt,  in  despair  called  hia  irctnd  parJi 


na,  as  duteonaly  at  erer,ptofE>»  Ibal 
ever  dearer  to  hit  people  x  and  that 

lake  bim  tafe  at  home,  and  feared 

Dutjy  pleated  to  accept  •"  the  infor- 


angtied  feehitgt;  the  secret  cauv 


>d  raised.    Bur  Dther%of  a  more  repuhli-   £|]k>t,  Dr.Tumer.SiT  Dudley  IMggea,  Mr.  Clement 

iplalon,njected"AW<ur'jraaa dangerous' Coke,  poured  Ihenudvet  fotih  In  afcbement,  not 

"".  which  would  be  always   ftiniiriiing '  to aay  teditjoos  uvk,  with  inrectlrea  more  darin* 

for  tuppliea.    If  the  king  was  in  danger  than  had  ever  before  Ihundecedin  Ibe  Howe  of 

■iHi  mo4ty,  those  on^ht  10  antwer  for  il  Who  CommoDS  f    Tbe  king  now  told  tbem,  "  T  come 

harepol  bolb  kinxand  kingdom  into  tbn  peril :   to  thow  j-our  errortj  and,  aal  may  call  il,  ira^dHia- 

— -"- "--^ I  keeper    then    a^ured    rhem,    Ihal     "when    the 


AA-D  niiS  FIRST  PAHLlAIUbWTS. 


*4J 


of  hit  royil  ri^htf,  which  bli  majd^  vmjld  nbl 
HifTcT  lo  be  Tiol'icd  by  iny  yntcoacA  CDune  of 

parliimf  ht  u  hii  ctnincil ;  but  tbnc  wu  k  Jtf^r- 
cnce  between  counciUJiig  and  conlmJling,  uuf 

hniihcd,  by  notlciaB  their  exmofdiuty  proceed^ 
ingi  in  Ibeir  ■mpeKbincot  of  Buckioglum.  The 
king,  rcHimingbiiipeecb,  lenurkAbly  TepitHched 
(be  TurlumeDt. 

"  Now  tbftt  yon  have  >II  tbingi  ucordiDH  ti , ,  _. 
wiibo,  and  Ehjt  /  tut  $t/itr  rfuf  fd  Ikfitjm  fJUfl* 

ctivcd  :  it  il  not  k  barliulKntmry  wmy,  dot 
viy  ID  deal  aith  •  king.     Mr.  cfemeDC  Cok 

enemy  cbui  to  be  destroyed  At  home  ■'     lod 

'Imott  dettroycd  bv  i  foreiKQ  caemy  tb*n 

The  kjng  concluded  by  wrting  bii  pii\ 

The  ttyk  of  "Ibe  boid  ipiuken"  ippeu 


■ion  Ibat  do  not  ippeiT  ita  our  printed  docnr 
Arnonc  Ibe  euliest  of  our  pitriota,  ind  liiully 


Icgn.  They  would  not  ^ve  tlieb-  pc 

to  rune  them  Eur  touDE  Ibcir  prii-iJeget  by 

HrainI,  which  Ibeir  forewhen  bid  lefl  them." 

On  Ibe  eighlb  o(  Hay,  the  Impeachment  of  I 


.    On  the  (bllowing  itf  t . 

ben  Ibe  epilacue  to  thii  mighty  piec 


}t  been  inTpaiied  in  the 


The  duke'i  piuraJity  of  offici 
lal  Ih^y  knew  nol'whal  to  mU 


kingdom'!  rerenuea,  Ihe  fountain  of  luppiy,  and 
and  eihaiuti  the  itvenuei  of  the  crown  i   and.  by 

iaate»;    he  who  hid  wmething  of  a  rni^eniaL 

"  Infinite  tumt  of  moneys  and  mauof  Land  exceed- 
ing the  value  of  muncy*  CDntribullDni  in  (nrlia. 
meot  hart  been  heaped  upon  him ;  and  how  have 
Ibey  been  employed?  Upon  coniy  furniture, 
fumptuoni  feaating,  and  magniiicent  building,  fAr 

"  Your  loidtblpi  have  an  Um  ot  the  man,  what 
•een  hi)  power,  and  iome,  1  leu,  hare  IcII  it. 

king  and  ilale ;  haw  compalible  or  incompalibli 

him  aa  Se;ianiu,  wbo  ii  dcacribeil   by  Ticilun, 

m^uiAlar  tt  luptrbvi.  ■eianua'i  prkle  waa  ao  eiCB- 
(ive,  u  Tacitui  uitb,  ibal  he  neglected  lil  conn- 

aiyled  fai^irdiMii  laterun  (ariai.  Doth  not  thia 
^helikcT  Aak  England,  Scotland,  ind  Ireland 
they  will  tell  yoDi     How  lauly  and  how 

inei  with  actiom  of  the  king^T     My  lotda  I 

of  Lord!  the  king  defended  Ibe  dukv,  and 
le  pvniihbii   i9mi   htttimt  tpnthri.  lately 

be  bumr.    "  The  kii^  tbii  morning  complained 


CCt  teem  miaplaced  for  want  of  datei.  They  all 
jually  cop)^  kiuhwonb,  the  only  tource  of  our 
hiatory  of  ihia  period.  Kren  Hume  is  involved  in 
the  ubacvtity.  The  king"!  apeech  waa  on  th« 
'  -    -(*  of  Miy.     AaRnihwonhhaanoI  lumi*td 


A  tbc  Tower  bifart  tlu  kmg'l  tpttth 


544 


SECRET  HISTORY  OF  CHARLES  L 


On  thu  memorable  day  a  philosophical  poli- 
tician might  have  presciently  marked  the  seed- 
plots  of  events,  which  not  many  yean  afterwards 
were  apparent  to  all  men.  The  passions  of  kin^ 
are  often  expatiated  on ;  but,  in  the  present  anti- 
monarchical  period,  the  passions  of  parliaments 
are  not  imaginable !  The  democratic  party  in  our 
constitution,  from  the  meanest  of  motives,  their 
egotism,  their  vanity,  and  their  audacity,  hate 
kings;  they  would  have  an  abstract  being,  a 
chimerical  sovereign  on  the  throne — ^as  a  statue, 
the  mere  ornament  of  the  place  it  fills, — and 
insensible,  like  a  statue,  to  the  invectives  they 
would  heap  on  the  pedestal  1 

The  commons,  with  a  fierce  spirit  of  reaction 
for  the  king's"  punishing  some  insolent  speeches," 
at  once  sent  up  to  the  lords  for  the  commitment 
of  the  duke !  But  when  they  learnt  the  fate  of 
the  patriots,  they  instantaneously  broke  up !  In 
the  afternoon  they  assembled  in  Westminster-hall, 
to  interchange  their  private  sentiments  on  the  fate 
of  the  two  imprisoned  members,  in  sadness  and 
indienation. 

The  following  day  the  commons  met  in  their 
own  house.  When  the  speaker  reminded  them  of 
the  usual  business,  they  all  cried  out,  "  Sit  down  ! 
sit  down  1"  They  would  touch  on  no  business 
till  they  were  "righted  in  their  liberties  !"  •  An 
open  committee  of  the  whole  house  was  formed, 
and  no  member  suffered  to  quit  the  house ;  but 
either  they  were  at  a  loss  how  to  commence  this 
solemn  conference,  or  expressed  their  indignation 
by  a  sullen  silence.  To  soothe  and  subdue  "  the 
bold  speakers  "  was  the  unfortunate  attempt  of  the 
vice-chamberlain,  Sir  Dudley  Carleton,  who  had 
long  been  one  of  our  foreign  ambassadors;  and 
who,  having  witnessed  the  despotic  governments 
on  the  continent,  imagined  that  there  was  no 
deficiency  of  liberty  at  home.  "  I  find,"  said  the 
vice-chamberlain,  "by  the  great  silence  in  this 
house,  that  it  is  a  fit  time  tu  be  heard,  if  you  will 
grant  me  the  patience."  Alluding  to  one  of  the 
king's  messages,  where  it  was  hinted  that,  if  there 
was  "  no  correspondency  between  him  and  the 
parliament,  he  should  be  forced  to  use  netv  court- 
tels,"  "  I  pray  you  consider  what  these  new 
counsels  are  and  may  be  :  I  fear  to  declare  those  I 
conceive!"  However,  Sir  Dudley  plainly  hinted 
at  them,  when  he  went  on  obscr\'ing,  that  "  when 
monar^'jns  began  to  know  their  own  strength,  and 
saw  fhe  turbulent  spirit  of  their  partianuntt,  they 
kad  overthrown  them  in  all  Europe,  except  here 
only  with  us."  Our  old  ambassador  drew  an 
amusing  picture  of  the  effects  of  despotic  govern- 
ments in  that  of  France — "  If  you  knew  the 
subjects  in  foreign  countries  as  well  as  myself,  to 
see  them  look,  not  like  our  nation,  with  store  of 
flesh  on  their  backs,  but  like  so  many  ghosts  and 
not  men,  being  nothing  but  skin  and  bones,  with 
some  thin  cover  to  their  nakedness,  and  wearing 
only  wooden  shoes  on  their  feet,  so  that  they 
cannot  eat  meat,  or  wear  good  clothes,  but  they 

*  Frankland,  an  inveterate  royalist,  in  copying 
Rushworth,  inserts  "  their  pretended  liberties ;" 
exactly  the  style  of  Catholic  writers  when  they 
mentinn  Protestantism,  by  "la  religion  preten- 
due  reformee."  All  party  writers  use  the  same 
style ! 


must  pay  the  king  for  it ;  this  is  a  misery  beyond 
expression,  and  that  which  we  are  yet  free  from !" 
A  long  residence  abroad  had  deprived  Sir  DuiUey 
Carleton  of  any  sympathy  with  the  high  tone  of 
freedom,  and  the  proud  jealousy  of  their  pririkga, 
which,  though  yet  unascertained,  undetined,  and 
stiU  often  contested,  was  breaking  forth  among 
the  commons  of  England.  It  was  fated  that  the 
celestial  spirit  of  our  national  freedom  should  not 
descend  among  us  in  the  form  of  the  mysticii 
dove  I 

Hume  obscn-es  on  this  speech,  that  "thew 
imprudent  suggestions  rather  gave  warning  than 
struck  terror."  It  was  evident  that  the  evat, 
which  implied  "  new  counseb,"  meant  what  sob- 
sequently  was  practised — ^the  king  gov<nxing 
without  a  parliament !  As  for  *'  the  raoaia  who 
wore  wooden  shoes,"  to  which  the  ^ouse  was 
congratulated  that  they  had  not  yet  been  reduoed, 
they  would  infer  that  it  was  the  more  necessary 
to  provide  against  the  possibility  of  so  strange  an 
occurrence !  Hume  truly  observes,  "  The  king 
reaped  no  further  benefit  from  thb  atempt  than 
to  exasperate  the  house  still  further."  Home  wofds, 
which  the  duke  perusted  in  asserting  ftad  dropped 
from  Digges,  were  explained  awav,  Digges  de- 
claring that  they  had  not  been  used  5y  him  ;  and 
it  seems  probable  that  he  was  suffered  to  cat  hn 
words.  Elliot  was  made  of  "stfrncr  stuff;"  he 
abated  not  a  jot  of  whatever  be  had  spoken  of 
"that  man,"  as  he  afiected  fo  call  Bucking- 
ham. 

The  commons,  whatever  >  night  be  their  pa- 
triotism, seem  at  first  to  hav«  oeen  chiefly  moved 
by  a  personal  hatred  of  the  favourite ;  and  thdr 
real  charges  against  him  knounted  to  little  more 
than  pretences  and  aggravai  ions.  The  king,  whose 
personal  aflections  were  a' ways  strong,  considered 
his  friend  innocent ;  ar  4  there  was  a  warm,  ro- 
mantic feature  in  the  ^naractcr  of  the  youthftil 
monarch,  which  scorned  to  sacrifice  his  faithful 
companion  to  his  ow.i  interests,  and  to  immolate 
the  minister  to  the  clamours  of  the  commons. 
Subsequently,  when  the  king  did  this  in  the  me- 
morable case  of  tl «  guiltless  Strafibrd.  it  was  the 
only  circumstance  which  weighed  on  his  mind  at 
the  hour  of  his  own  sacrifice !  Sir  Robert  Cotton 
told  a  friend,  on  the  day  on  which  the  king  went 
down  to  the  House  of  Lords,  and  committed  the 
two  patriots,  thiit  "  he  had  of  late  been  often  sent 
for  to  the  king  and  duke,  and  that  the  king's  affec- 
tion towards  him  was  very  admirable,  and  ao  whit 
lessened.  Certainly,"  he  added,  "  the  king  will 
never  yield  to  the  duke's  fall,  being  a  young  man, 
resolute,  magnanimous,  and  tenderlv  and  firmly 
affectionate  where  he  takes."*  This  authentic 
character  of  Charles  the  First  by  that  inteili- 
eent  and  learned  man,  to  whom  the  nation  owes 
the  treasures  of  its  antinuities,  is  remarkable. 
Sir  Robert  Cotton,  though  holding  no  rank  at 
court,  and  in  no  respect  of  the  duke's  party, 
was  often  consulted  by  the  king,  and  much 
in  his  secrets.  How  the  king  valued  the  judg- 
ment of  this  acute  and  able  ach^iser,  acting  on 
it  in  direct  contradiction  and  to  the  mortifica- 
tion of  the  favourite,  I  shall  probably  have  occa- 
sion to  show. 

*  Manuscript  letter. 


>• 


AND  HIS  FIRST  PARLIAMENTS, 


545 


The  commons  did  not  decline  in  the  suhtle 
spint  with  which  they  had  begim ;  they  covertly 
aimed  at  once  to  subjugate  the  sovereign*  and  to 
expc\  the  minister  I  A  remonstrance  was  pre- 
pared a^inst  the  levying  of  tonnage  and  pound- 
age, which  comtitutetl  half  of  the  c^wn  revenues ; 
and  a  petition,  *' e(}aivalent  to  a  command,"  for 
removmg  Buckingham  from  his  majesty's  person 
and  councils.*  The  remonstrance  is  wrought  up 
with  a  high  spirit  of  invective  against  "  the  un- 
bridled ambition  of  the  duke,"  whom  they  class 
*'  among  those  vipers  and  pests  to  their  king  and 
commonwealth,  as  so  expressly  styled  by  your 
most  royal  father."  They  request  that  **  he 
woultl  be  pleased  to  remove  this  person  from 
access  to  his  sacred  presence,  and  that  he  would 
not  balance  this  one  man  with  all  these  things, 
and  with  the  affairs  of  the  Chiistian  world." 

The  king  hastily  dissolved  this  ueond  parlia- 
ment ;  and  when  the  lords  petitioned  for  its  con- 
tinuance, he  warmly  and  angrily  exclaimed, 
*'Not  a  moment  longer  1"  It  was  dissolved  in 
June,  1636. 

Tlie  patriots  abandoned  their  sovereign  to  his 
Cite,  and  retreated  home  sullen,  indignant,  and 
ready  to  conspire  among  themselves  for  the  as- 
sumption of  their  disputed  or  their  defrauded 
liberties.  They  industriously  dispersed  their  re- 
monstrance, and  the  king  replied  by  a  declara- 
tion ;  but  an  attack  is  always  more  vigorous  than 
a  defence.  The  declaration  is  spiritless,  and  evi- 
dently composed  under  suppressed  feelings,  which, 
perhaps,  knew  not  how  to  shape  themselves.  The 
'*  Remonstrance "  was  commanded  everywhere 
to  be  burnt ;  and  the  effect  which  it  produced  on 
tfaepeople  we  shall  shortly  witness. 

Trie  king  was  left  amidst  the  most  pressing 
exigencies.  At  the  dissolution  of  the  nrst  par- 
liament, he  had  been  compelled  to  practise  a 
humiliatmg  economy.  Hume  has  alluded  to  the 
numerous  wants  of  the  young  monarch ;  but  he 
certainly  was  not  acquainted  with  the  king's  ex- 
treme necessities.  His  coronation  seemed  rather 
a  private  than  a  public  ceremony.  To  save  the  ex- 
penses of  the  procession  from  the  Tower  through 
the  city  to  Whitehall,  that  customary  pomp  was 
omitted ;  and  the  reauon  all^^  was,  *'  to  save 
the  charges  for  more  noble  undertakings;"  that 
is,  for  means  to  carry  on  the  Spanish  war  without 
supplies!  But  now  the  mo6t  extraordinary 
changes  appeared  at  court.  The  king  mortgaged 
bis  lands  in  Cornwall  to  the  aldermen  and  com- 
panies of  London.  A  rumour  spread  that  the 
small  pension  list  must  he  revoked  ;  and  the  royal 
distress  was  earned  so  far,  that  all  the  tables  at 
coun  were  laid  down,  and  the  courtiers  put  on 
board  wages!  I  have  seen  a  letter  which  gives 
an  account  of  "  the  funereil  supper  at  Whitehall, 
whereat  twenty-three  tables  were  buried,  beins 
from  henceforth  converted  to  board-wages ;"  ana 
there  I  learn,  that  "  since  this  dissolving  of  house- 
keeping, his  majesty  is  but  sleiklerly  attended." 
Another  writer,  who  describes  hhnseu  to  be  only 
a  looker-on,  regrets,  that  while  the  men  of  the 
law  spent  ten  thousand  pounds  on  a  single  masque, 

*  Rush  worth,  I.  400.  Hume,  VI.  aai,  who 
enters  widely  Into  the  views  and  feelings  of 
Charles. 


they  did  not  rather  make  the  king  rich  ;  and  adds, 
"  I  see  a  rich  commonwealth,  a  rich  people,  and 
the  crown  poor!"  This  strange  poverty  of  the 
court  of  Charles  seems  to  have  escaped  the  notice 
of  our  general  historians.  Charles  was  now  to 
victual  his  fleet  with  the  savings  of  the  board- 
wages  !  for  this  "  surplusage "  was  taken  into 
account. 

The  fatal  descent  on  the  isle  of  Rhi  sent  home 
Buckingham  discomfited,  and  spread  dismay 
through  the  nation.  The  best  blood  had  been 
shed  from  the  wanton  bravery  of  an  unskilful  and 
romantic  commander,  who,  forced  to  retreat, 
would  march,  but  not  f!y,  and  was  the  very  last 
man  to  quit  the  g^und  which  he  could  not 
occupy.  In  the  eagerness  of  his  hopes,  Buck- 
ingham had  once  dropped,  as  I  learn,  that  *'  be- 
fore Midsummer  he  should  be  more  honoured 
and  beloved  of  the  commons  than  ever  was  the 
Barl  of  Essex  :*'  and  thus  he  rocked  his  own  and 
his  master's  imagination  in  cradling  fancies. 
This  volatile  hero,  who  had  felt  the  capricious- 
ness  of  popularity,  thought  that  it  was  as  eiisily 
regained  as  it  was  easily  lost ;  and  that  a  chivalri'c 
adventure  would  return  to  him  that  favour  which 
at  this  moment  might  have  been  denied  to  all 
the  wisdom,  the  policy,  and  the  arts  of  an  ex- 
perienced statesman. 

The  king  was  now  involved  in  more  intricate 
and  desperate  measures;  and  the  nation  was 
thrown  into  a  state  of  agitation,  of  which  the 
page  of  popular  history  yields  but  a  faint  im- 
pression. 

The  spirit  of  insurrection  was  stalking  forth 
in  the  metropolis  and  in  the  country.  The  scenes 
which  I  am  about  to  describe  occurred  at  the 
close  of  i6a6  :  an  inattentive  reader  might  easily 
mistake  them  for  the  revolutionary  scenes  of  1640. 
It  was  an  unarmed  rebellion. 

An  army  and  a  na\y  had  returned  unpaid,  and 
sore  with  defeat.  The  town  was  scoured  by 
mutinous  seamen  and  soldiers,  roving  even  into 
the  palace  of  the  sovereign.  Soldiers  without 
pay  form  a  society  without  laws.  A  band  of 
captains  rushed  into  the  duke's  apartment  as  he 
sat  at  dinner ;  and  when  reminded  by  the  duke 
of  a  late  proclamation,  forbidding  all  soldiers 
coming  to  court  in  troops,  on  pain  of  hanging, 
they  replied,  that  "  Whole  companies  were  ready 
to  De  banged  with  them  I  that  the  king  might 
do  as  he  pleased  with  their  lives;  for  that  their 
reputation  was  lost,  and  their  honour  forfeited, 
for  want  of  their  salary  to  pay  their  debts." 
When  a  petition  was  once  presented,  and  it  was 
inquired  who  was  the  composer  of  it  ?  a  vast  body 
tremendously  shouted,  "All!  all!"  A  multi- 
tude, composed  of  seamen,  met  at  Tower-hill, 
and  set  a  lad  on  a  scaffold,  who,  with  an  "  Oyes!" 
proclaimed  that  King  Charles  had  promised  their 
pay,  or  the  duke  had  been  on  the  scaffold  himself! 
These,  at  least,  were  grievances  more  apparent 
to  the  sovereign  than  those  vague  ones  so  per- 
petually repeated  by  his  unfaithful  commons. 
But  what  remained  to  be  done  ?  It  was  only  a 
choice  of  difficulties  between  the  disorder  and  the 
remedy.  At  the  moment,  the  duke  got  up  what 
he  called  **  The  council  of  the  sea  ;"  was  punctual 
at  the  first  meeting,  and  appointed  three  days  in  a 
week  to   sit — but    broke    his   appointment   the 


SECHET  mSTODY  OF  CffAR/.ES  I. 


K  ot  tboK  ib^Acmy  pipciiJenUwl 


3uctiD^um,  in  dsjuir,  ind  pmfusc  of  life,  *■* 
plfnnLng   I    Fct^b  cTpcOiiirin    For   the   fitgr   of 


Tlilicn  ind  pcnecutiona  to  I 

pint!    11  •»  utgedhy  St  court  piny,  tl 


jodA."    Tbe  kicie  i 


LiWp  bndn  th»  of  parlii 

Tilo  gi.e  my  their  owr 

goodA."     The  king  orderwl,  th*l  tbow  who  wduU 

not  nbicTibe  to  ux  Imni  ihonUl  not  be  foTceil 

i^ecify  those  houKholdeiV  n'mn  who  would  no 
■ubKribe  :  *nd  it  further  ippe&n,  (hat  (faoK  whc 

who  were  pre^ccT  were  lent  to  the  J^( !    but 

Ehc  inirepidiiy  of  the  puttin  thcituclTei,  or  by 

people  lo  pi*y  inio  one  inothci'i  hinds,     Whra 
(he  common  ronncil  htdcooiented  that  an  im- 

Icvied   Jt    dime*,  io   cofneqiience  of  refuula  lo 


owl  that  a  mefthzol  »o  aged  and  wealthy,  would 

be  hard  Bt(crEU(ivc,  .Mi'l  balked  (he  new  prO|cct 
f  hniBce,  by  ihippinj  hinuelf  with  hi4  chf 


fctlingi  of  populat „ ....     __..    _. 

and  ibook   tl>e  bench  with  laughter  or  with  rage 

throqgh  the  pviA  of  St. 

qbSj  1  UUflT,  bat  1  ptopbet.     Twenty  yan  after 


Thnc 


'  uciety ;  htit  the  tunc  tphA  act^ 
Geo^  Citesby,  of  HortluDi^oi^ 

-'- ?,  that  " he  conddnd  ItutUlitlHmB 


a  precedent ;  and  1 
(Old  by  the  lord  pn 


nmtry  genllenun  waived  any  kiuiaqa  be  ID 
■e  toklqdred.decUring,  tbAt  "bcuvoaldm 

i(h  thoK  who  had  iintied  in  the  frecdon 
leir  populan(y  hy  their  cornmimlt ;  ud  n 
illowing  pvljimcnt  tgaJut  their  mm  wi>b 


*  The  Kajdicali  of  that  day  diOcrcd  fmrn  «a 

heiimS"  Miny  of  Ihe  PuTiiui  raD?iBed  tbi^ 
ain.  with  the  itudy  of  Ihe  He.eUliona  J  bcber- 
g  Prince  Fleiir>'  to  be  preligured  io  Ihe  Apoca- 
pv ;  v>mr  pTophnicd  tha(  be  ihould  orerthniw 


id  lo  ipaie  for  a  prophecy, 
ocient   radical,  BiUI,  a  priest,  and  t  principal 
^uit  bare  been  rery  Dotorlom,  for  Jouon  hu 
"ithout  any  knowledge  of  my  tcconat  of  Ibk 
idicned''him.-^'' Jomon^^S^Ai,  Vol.  V. 

"      "■      fourth   year  of  Cb 


Tb»4 


biiiig  Ib  lir  Roben 

A  Pyr  I  a  Pye  1  a  Pre  I"  Ibe 
d  ciy^-"  A  puddinf  1  a  pnd- 


handred  yean  leo,  ended  at  we  luTe  icea  Hune : 
(hey  (fjecled  an  wbo  had  nrped  rbc  payment  of 
the  loaoa ;  and,  p*>4ng  by  »cG  men  aa  Sir  Robot 


■k-ihM^hAataAiAMta«kMdMta^M 


AND  ins  FIRST  PAIiLIAMENTS. 


547 


The  friends  of  these  knights  and  country  gentle* 
men  flocked  to  their  prisons  ;  and  when  they 
petitioned  for  more  liberty  and  air  during  the 
sammer,  it  was  pohcy  to  grant  their  request.  But 
it  was  also  policy  that  they  should  not  reside  in 
their  own  counties :  this  relaxation  was  only 
granted  to  those  who,  lirinf  in  the  south,  con- 
sented to  sojourn  in  the  north ;  while  the  dwellers 
in  the  north  were  to  be  lodged  in  the  south  I 

In  the  country  the  disturbed  scenes  assumed 
eren  a  more  alarming  appearance  than  in  London. 
They  not  only  would  not  proride  mone>-»  but 
when  money  was  otiered  Dy  government,  the 
men  refused.to  serve ;  a  conscription  was  not  then 
known :  and  it  became  a  Question,  long  debated 
m  the  privy  council,  whether  those  who  would 
not  accept  press-nKyney  should  not  be  tried  by 
martuil  law.  I  preser^'e  in  the  note  a  curious 
piece  of  secret  information.*  The  great  novelty 
and  symptom  of  the  times  was  the  scattering  of 
letters.  Sealed  letters,  addressed  to  the  leading 
men  of  the  county,  were  found  hanging  on  bushes ; 
anonvmous  letters  were  dropt  in  shops  and  streets, 
whicn  gave  notice,  that  the  day  was  fast  approach- 
ing, when  '*  Such  a  work  was  to  be  wroueht  in 
England,  as  never  was  the  like,  which  will  be  for 
our  good."  Addresses  multiplied  *'To  all  true- 
hearted  EngUshmenI'*  A  groom  detected  in 
spreading  such  seditious  papers,  and  brousht  into 
the  inexorable  star<hamber,  was  fined  three 
thoQsand  pounds  I  The  leniency  of  the  punish- 
ment was  rather  regretted  by  two  bishops ;  if  it 
was  ever  carried  into  execution,  the  unhappy  man 
must  have  remained  a  groom  who  never  after 
crossed  a  horse  I 

There  is  one  difHcult  duty  of  an  historian, 
which  is  too  often  passed  over  by  every  party - 
writer ;  it  is  to  pause  whenever  he  feete  himself 
warming  with  the  passions  of  the  multitude,  or 
becoming  the  blind  apologist  of  arbitrary  power  * 
An  historian  must  transform  himself  into  the 
characters  which  he  is  representing,  and  throw 

*  Extract  from  a  manuscript  letter. — "  On 
Friday  last  I  hear,  but  as  a  secret,  that  it  was 
debated  at  the  council-table,  whether  our  Essex- 
men,  who  refused  to  take  press-money,  should  not 
be  punished  by  martial  law,  and  hanged  up  on 
the  next  tree  to  their  dwellings,  for  an  example  of 
terror  to  others.  My  lord  keeper,  who  had  been 
long  silent,  when,  in  conclusion,  it  came  to  his 
courK  to  speak,  told  the  lords,  that  as  far  as  he 
understood  the  law,  nont  tvert  liabU  to  martial 
law,  hut  martial  men.  If  these  had  taken  press- 
money,  and  afterwards  run  from  their  colours,  they 
might  then  be  punished  in  that  manner ;  but  vet 
th^  were  no  soldiers,  and  refused  to  be.  SeconcUy, 
he  thought  a  subsidy,  new  by  law,  could  not  be 
pressed  against  hfo  will  for  a  foreign  service;  it 
being  supposed  in  law,  the  service  of  his  purse 
excused  that  of  his  penon,  unless  his  own  country 
were  in  danger;  and  he  appealed  to  my  lord 
treasurer,  and  my  lord  president,  whether  it  was 
not  so,  who  both  assented  it  was  to,  though  some 
of  them  faintly,  as  unwilling  to  have  iHsen  urged 
to  such  an  answer.  So  it  is  thought  that  proposi- 
tion is  dashed ;  and  It  will  be  tried  what  mav  be 
done  in  the  Star  Chamber  against  these  refrac- 
tories." 


himself  back  into  the  times  which  he  h  opening ; 
possesssing  himself  of  their  feelings  and  tracing 
their  actions,  he  may  then  at  least  hope  to  dis- 
cover truths  which  may  equally  interest  the  ho- 
nourable men  of  all  parties. 

Thu  reflection  has  occurred  from  the  very  dif- 
ficulty into  which  I  am  now  brought.  Shall  we 
at  once  condemn  the  king  for  tnese  arbitrary 
measures  ?  It  is.  however,  very  possible  that  they 
were  never  in  his  contemplation !  In%'olved  in 
inextricable  difficulties,  according  to  his  feelings, 
he  was  betrayed  by  parliament ;  and  he  scorned 
to  barter  their  favour  by  that  vul^r  trafBc  of 
treachery — the  immolation  of  the  single  victim 
who  bad  long  attached  his  personal  affections ;  a 
man  at  leaht  as  much  envied  as  hated  I  That 
hard  lesson  had  not  vet  been  inculcated  on  a 
British  sovereign,  that  his  bosom  mnst  he  a  blank 
of  all  private  affection  ;  and  had  that  lesson  been 
taught,  the  character  of  Charles  was  destitute  of 
all  aptitude  for  it.  To  reign  without  a  refractory 
parliament,  and  to  find  among  the  people  them- 
selves subjects  more  loyal  than  their  representa- 
tives, was  an  experiment — and  a  fatal  one  I  Under 
Charles,  the  liberty  of  the  subject,  when  the  neces- 
sities of  the  state  pressed  on  the  sovereign,  was 
matter  of  discussion,  disputed  as  often  as  assumed ; 
the  divines  were  proclaiming  as  rebellious  those 
who  refused  their  contributions  to  aid  the  govern- 
ment ;  *  and  the  law-«ages  alleged  precedents  for 

*  A  member  of  the  House,  in  James  the  First's 
time,  called  this  race  of  divines  "  Spaniels  to  the 
court  and  wolves  to  the  people."  Dr.  Main- 
wairing.  Dr.  Sibthorpe,  and  Dean  Bargrave  were 
seeking  for  ancient  precedents  to  maintain  abso- 
lute monarchy,  and  inculcating  passive  obedience. 
Bargrave  had  this  passage  in  his  sermon  :  "  It  was 
the  speech  of  a  man  renowned  for  wisdom  in  our 
age,  that  if  he  were  commanded  to  put  forth  to  sea 
in  a  ship  that  had  neither  mast  nor  tackling,  be 
would  do  it :"  and  being  asked  what  wisdom  that 
were,  replied,  "The  wiMom  must  be  in  him  that 
hath  power  to  command,  not  in  him  that  con- 
science binds  to  obey."  Sibthorpe,  after  he  pub- 
lished his  sermon,  immediately  had  his  house 
burnt  down.  Dr.  Mainwairing,  says  a  manuscript 
letter-writer,  "sent  the  other  day  to  a  friend  of 
mine,  to  help  him  to  all  the  ancient  precedents  he 
could  find,  to  strengthen  his  opinion  (for  absolute 
monarchy),  who  answered  him  he  could  help 
him  in  nothing  but  only  to  hang  him,  and  that  if 
he  lived  till  a  parliament,  or  &c.,  he  should  he 
sure  of  a  halter."  Mainwairing  afterwards  sub- 
mitted to  pariiament;  but  after  the  dissolution 
got  a  free  pardon.  The  panic  of  Popery  was  a 
great  e\-il.  The  divines,  under  Laud,  appeared  to 
approach  to  Catholicism ;  but  it  was  probably  only 
a  project  of  reconciliation  between  the  two 
churches,  which  Elizabeth,  James,  and  Charles 
equally  wished.  Mr.  Cosins  a  letter-writer  cen- 
sures for  "  superstition  "  in  this  bitter  style  :  "  Mr. 
Cosins  has  impudently  made  three  editions  ef  his 
prayer-book,  and  one  which  he  gives  away  in 
private,  different  from  the  published  ones.  An 
audacious  fellow,  whom  my  Lord  of  Durham 
greatly  admireth.  I  doubt  if  he  be  a  sound  Pro- 
testant :  he  was  so  blind  at  even-song  on  Candle- 
mass-day,  that  he  could  not  see  to  read  prayers  in 


548 


SECRET  HISTORY  OF  CHARLES  I, 


raising  supplies  in  the  manner  which  Charles  had 
adopted.  Sclden,  whose  learned  industry  was  as 
rast  as  the  amplitude  of  his  mind,  had  to  seek  for 
the  freedom  of  the  subject  in  the  dust  of  the 
records  of  the  Tower — but  the  omnipotence  of 
parliaments,  if  any  human  assembly  may  be  in- 
vested  with  s'.ich  supernatural  greatness,  had  not 
yet  awakened  the  hoar  antiquity  of  popular 
liberty. 

A  general  spirit  of  insurrection,  rather  than  in- 
surrection itself,  had  suddenly  raised  some  strange 
appearances  through  the  kingdom.  "The  re- 
monstrance" of  parliament  had  unquestionably 
quickened  the  feelings  of  the  people ;  but  yet  the 
lovers  of  peace  and  the  revcrencers  of  royalty  were 
not  a  few :  money  and  men  were  procured,  to 
send  out  the  army  and  the  fleet.  More  concealed 
causes  may  be  suspected  to  have  been  at  work. 
Many  of  the  heads  of  the  opposition  were  pursuing 
some  secret  machinations :  about  this  time  I  find 
many  mysterious  stories — indications  of  secret 
societies — and  other  evidences  of  the  intrigues  of 
the  popular  party. 

Little  matters,  sotnetimes  more  important  than 
they  appear,  are  suitable  to  our  minute  sort  of 
history.  In  November,  i6a6,  a  rumour  spread 
that  the  king  was  to  be  visited  by  an  ambassador 
from  "  the  President  of  the  Society  of  the  Ros>'- 
cross."  He  was  indeed  an  heteroclite  ambassador, 
for  he  is  described  "  as  a  ^'outh  with  never  a  hair 
on  his  face ;"  in  fact,  a  child  who  was  to  conceal 
the  m}'Sterious  personage  which  he  was  for  a 
moment  to  represent.  He  appointed  Sunday 
afternoon  to  come  to  court,  attended  by  thirteen 
coaches.  He  was  to  proffer  to  his  majesty,  pro- 
vided the  king  accepted  his  advice,  three  millions 
to  put  into  his  coders  ;  and  by  his  secret  councils 
to  unfold  matters  of  moment  and  secrecy.  A  Latin 
letter  was  delivered  to  "David  Ramsey  of  the 
clock"  to  hand  over  to  the  king:  a  copy  of  it  has 
been  preser\'ed  in  a  letter  of  the  times ;  but  it  is 
so  unmeaning,  that  it  could  have  had  no  effect  on 
the  king,  who,  however,  declared  that  he  would 
not  admit  him  to  an  audience,  and  that  if  he 
could  tell  where  "  the  President  of  the  Rosy-cross" 
was  to  be  found,  unless  he  made  good  his  offer, 
he  would  hang  him  at  the  court-gates.  This 
served  the  town  and  country  for  talk  till  the 
appointed  Sunday  had  passed  over,  and  no  ambas- 
sador was  visible !  Some  considered  this  as  the 
plotting  of  crazy  brains,  but  others  imagined  it  to 
be  an  attempt  to  speak  with  the  king  in  private, 
on  matters  respecting  the  duke.  There  was  also 
discovered,  by  letters  received  from  Rome,  "  a 
whole  parliament  of  Jesuits  sitting  "  in  '*  a  fair- 
hanged  vault "  in  Clerkenwell :  Sir  John  Cooke 
would  have  alarmed  the  parliament,  that  on  St. 
Joseph's  day  these  were  to  have  occupied  their 

the  minster  with  leas  than  three  hundred  and  forty 
candles,  whereof  sixty  he  caused  to  be  placed 
about  the  high-altar ;  besides  he  caused  the  picture 
of  our  Saviour,  supported  by  two  angels,  to  be  set 
in  the  choir.  The  committee  is  ver)*  hot  against 
him,  and  no  matter  if  thcv  trounce  him."  This 
was  Cosins  who  survived  the  revolution,  and,  re- 
turning with  Charles  the  Second,  was  raised  to  the 
see  of  Durham  :  the  charitable  institutions  he  has 
left  arc  most  munificent. 


places ;  ministers  are  supposed  to  have  conspira- 
tors for  "  the  nonce  ;"  Sir  Dudley  Dirges,  in  the 
opposition,  as  usual,  would  not' believe  in  any 
such  political  necromancers;  but  such  a  party 
were  discovered;  Cooke  would  have  Insinuated 
that  the  French  ambassador  bad  persuaded  Louis, 
that  the  divisions  between  Chailes  and  hts  people 
had  been  raised  by  bis  ingenuity,  and  was  re- 
warded for  the  intelligence ;  this  is  not  unlikely. 
The  parliament  of  Jesuits  might  have  been  a 
secret  college  of  theirs;  for,  among  other  things 
seized  on,  was  a  considerable  library. 

When  the  parliament  was  sitting,  a  sealed  letter 
was  thrown  under  the  door,  with  this  siipcrscrip- 
tion,  Curud  be  thi  man  that  Jindt  this  Utter,  and 
delh/ers  it  not  to  the  House  ^f  Commons.  The 
Serjeant  at  arms  deli%'ered  it  to  the  speaker,  who 
would  not  open  it  till  the  House  had  choaen  a 
committee  of  twelve  members  to  mform  them 
whether  it  was  fit  to  be  read.  Sir  Edward  Coke, 
after  having  read  two  or  three  lines,  stopped,  and, 
according  to  my  authority*, "  durst  read  no  further, 
but  immediately  sealing  it;  the  committee  thought 
tit  to  send  it  to  the  king,  who  they  say,  on  reading 
it  through,  cast  it  into  the  tire,  and  sent  the  House 
of  Commons  thanks  for  their  wisdom  in  not  pnb- 
lishing  it,  and  for  the  discretion  of  the  committee 
in  so  far  tendering  his  honour,  as  not  to  reul  it 
out,  when  they  once  perceived  that  it  touched  his 
majesty.* 

Others  besides  the  freedom  of  speech,  intro- 
duced another  form,  "  A  speech  without  doors," 
which  was  distributed  to  the  members  of  the 
House.  It  is  in  all  respects  a  remarkable  one, 
occupyine  ten  folio  pages  in  the  first  volume  of 
Rushwortn. 

Some  in  office  appear  to  have  employed  ex- 
traordinary proceedings  of  a  similar  nature.  An 
intercepted  letter  written  from  the  Archduchess 
to  the  King  of  Spain  was  delivered  by  Sir  H. 
Martyn  at  the  council-board  on  New-year's  day, 
who  found  it  in  some  papers  relating  to  the  navy. 
The  duke  immediately  said  he  would  ^ow  it  to 
the  king;  and,  accompanied  by  several  lords, 
went  into  his  majesty's  closet.  The  letter  was 
written  in  French ;  it  advised  the  Spanish  conrt  to 
make  a  sudden  war  with  England,  for  several 
reasons ;  his  majesty's  want  of  skill  to  govern  of 
himself;  the  weakness  of  his  council  in  not  daring 
to  acquaint  him  with  the  truth  ;  want  of  money ; 
disunion  of  the  subjects'  h^rts  from  their  prince, 
&c.  The  king  only  observed,  that  the  writer 
forgot  that  the  Archduchess  writes  to  the  Kine  of 
Spain  in  Spanish,  and  sends  her  letters  orerland. 

I  have  to  add  an  important  fact.    I  find  certain 

*  I  deliver  this  fact  as  I  find  it  in  a  private  letter; 
but  it  is  noticed  in  the  Journals  of  the  House  of 
Commons,  aj  Junii,  4.*  Caroli  Regis.  "Sir 
Edward  Coke  reporteth  that  they  find  that, 
inclosed  in  the  letter,  to  be  unfit  for  any 
subjects'  ear  to  hear.  Read  but  one  line  and  a 
half  of  it,  and  could  not  endure  to  read  more  of  it. 
It  was  ordered  to  be  sealed  and  delivered  into  the 
king's  hands  by  eight  members,  and  to  acquaint 
his  majesty  with  the  place  and  time  of  finding  it ; 
particularly  that  upon  the  reading  of  one  line  and 
a  half  at  most,  they  would  read  no  more,  but 
sealed  it  up,  and  brought  it  to  the  House." 


•t 


AND  HIS  FIRST  PARLIAMENTS, 


549 


eridence  that  the  heads  of  the  opposition  were 
busily  active  in  thwarting  the  measures  of  govern- 
ment. Dr.  Samuel  Turner,  the  member  for 
Shrewsbury,  called  on  Sir  John  Cage,  and  desired 
to  speak  to  him  privately ;  his  errand  was  to  en- 
treat him  to  resist  the  loan,  and  to  use  his  power 
with  others  to  obtain  this  purpose.  The  following 
information  comes  from  Sir  John  Cage  himself. 
Dr.  Turner  "  being  desired  to  stay,  he  would  not 
a  minute,  but  instantly  took  hone,  saying  he 
had  more  places  to  go  to,  and  time  pressed ;  that 
tktrt  'was  a  company  qfthem  had  divided  themselvtt 
into  ail  parts,  rvery  one  having  had  a  quarter  as- 
signed to  him,  to  perform  this  service  for  the  com- 
monvfcalth."  This  was  written  in  November,  i6a6. 
This  unquestionably  amounts  to  a  secret  confe- 
deracy watching  out  of  parliament  as  well  as  in ; 
and  tnose  strange  appearances  of  popular  defection 
exhibited  in  the  country,  which  I  have  described, 
were  in  great  part  the  consequences  of  the  machi- 
nations and  active  intrigues  of  the  popular  party. 

The  king  was  not  disposed  to  try  a  third  parlia- 
ment. The  favourite,  pcrhafM  to  reeain  that  po- 
pular favour  which  his  greatness  had  lost  him,  is 
said  in  private  letters  to  have  been  twice  on  his 
knees  to  intercede  for  a  new  one.  The  elections 
however  foreboded  no  good ;  and  a  letter-writer 
connected  with  the  court,  in  giving  an  account  of 
them,  prophetically  declarec^  "we  are  without 
question  undone !" 

The  king's  speech  opens  with  the  spirit  which 
be  himself  felt,  but  which  he  could  not  communi- 
cate. 

**  The  times  are  for  action ;  w^herefore,  for  ex- 
ample's sake,  I  mean  not  to  spend  much  time  in 
words  !"  If  you,  which  God  forbid,  should  not  do 
yonrdutiesin  contributing  what  the  state  at  this  time 
need<t,  I  mijst,  in  discharge  of  my  conscience,  use 
thoseether  means  which  God  hath  put  into  my  hinds, 
to  save  that,  which  the  follies  of  some  particular 
men  may  otherwise  hazard  to  icsc."  He  added, 
with  the  loftiness  of  ideal  majesty — "Take  not 
this  as  a  threatening,  for  I  scorn  to  threaten  any 
but  my  equals ;  but  as  an  admonition  from  him, 
that,  both  out  of  nature  and  duty,  hath  most  care 
of  your  preservations  and  prosperities:"  and  in  a 
more  friendly  tone  he  requested  them,  "To  re- 
member a  thinp  to  the  end  that  we  mav  forget  it. 
You  may  imagine  that  I  come  here  witn  a  doubt 
of  success,  remembering  the  distractions  of  the 
last  meeting ;  but  I  assure  you  that  I  shall  very 
easily  forget  and  forgive  what  is  past." 

A  most  crowded  house  now  met,  composed  of 
the  wealthiest  men  ;  for  a  lord,  who  probably  con- 
sidered that  property  was  the  true  balance  of 
power,  estimated  that  they  were  able  to  buy  the 
upper-house,  his  majesty  only  excepted  !  The 
aristocracy  of  wealth  had  adready  begun  to  be  felt. 
Some  ill  omens  of  the  parliament  appeared.  Sir 
Robert  Philips  moved  for  a  general  fast :  "  We  had 
one  for  the  plague  which  it  pleased  God  to  deliver 
us  from,  and  we  have  now  so  many  plagues  of  the 
commonwealth  about  his  majesty's  person,  that 
we  have  need  of  such  an  act  of  humiliation." 
Sir  Edward  Coke  held  it  most  necessary,"  because 
there  are,  I  fear,  some  devils  that  will  not  be  cast 
out  but  by  fasting  and  prayer." 

Many  of  the  speeches  in  "  this  great  council  of 
the  kingdom  "  are  as  admirable  pieces  of  composi- 


tion as  exist  in  the  language.  Even  the  court- 
party  were  moderate,  extenuating  rather  than 
pleading  for  the  late  necessities.  But  the  evil 
spirit  of  party,  however  veiled,  was  walking  amidst 
them  all :  a  letter-writer  represents  the  natural 
state  of  feelings :  "  Some  of  the  parliament  talk 
desperately ;  while  others,  of  as  high  a  course  to 
enforce  money,  if  they  yield  not  I"  Such  is  the 
perpetual  action  and  reaction  of  public  opinion ; 
when  one  side  will  give  too  little,  the  other  is  sure 
to  desire  too  much ! 

The  parliament  cranted  subsidies — Sir  John 
Cooke  having  brougnt  up  the  report  to  the  king, 
Charles  expressed  great  satisfaction,  and  declared 
that  he  felt  now  more  happy  than  any  of  his  pre- 
decessors. Inquiring  of  Sir  John  by  how  many 
voices  he  had  carried  it  ?  Cooke  replied,  But  by 
one  ! — at  which  his  majesty  seemed  appalled,  and 
asked  how  many  were  against  him  ?  Cooke 
answered,  "  None  I  the  unanimity  of  the  House 
made  all  but  one  voice!"  at  which  his  majesty 
wept  !*  If  Charles  shed  tears,  or  as  Cooke  himself 
expresses  it,  in  his  report  to  the  House,  "  was 
much  affected,"  the  emotion  was  profound :  for 
on  all  sudden  emergencies  Charles  displayed  an 
almost  unparalleled  command  over  the  exterior 
violence  of  his  feelings. 

The  favourite  himself  sympathised  with  the 
tender  joy  of  his  voyal  master ;  and,  before  the 
king,  %'oluntarily  offered  himself  as  a  peace-sacri- 
fice. In  his  speech  at  the  council-table,  he  entreats 
the  king  that  he  who  had  the  honour  to  be  his 
majesty's  favourite,  might  now  give  up  that  title 
to  them. —  A  warm  genuine  feeling  probably 
prompted  these  words. 

"  To  open  my  heart,  please  to  pardon  me  a 
word  more ;  I  must  confess  I  hax'e  long  lived  in 
pain,  sleep  hath  given  me  no  rest,  favours  and 
fortunes  no  content;  such  have  been  my  secret 
sorrows,  to  be  thought  the  man  of  separation,  and 
that  divided  the  king  from  his  people,  and  them 
from  him ;  but  I  hope  it  shall  appear  they  were 
some  mistaken  minds  that  would  have  made  me 
the  evil  spirit  that  walketh  between  a  good  master 
and  a  loyal  people. "t 

Buckingham  added,  that  for  the  ^ood  of  his 
country  he  was  willing  to  sacrifice  his  honours; 
and  since  his  plurality  of  offices  had  been  so 
strongly  excepted  against,  that  he  was  content  to 
give  up  the  master  of  the  horse  to  Marcjuesi 
Hamilton,  and  the  warden  of  the  Cinque  Ports  to 
the  Earl  of  Carlisle ;  and  was  willing  that  the 
parliament  should  appoint  another  admiral  for  all 
services  at  sea. 

It  is  as  certain  as  human  evidence  can  authenti- 
cate, that  on  the  king's  side  all  was  grateful  affec- 
tion ;  and  that  on  Buckingham's  there  was  a  most 
earnest  desire  to  win  the  favours  of  parliament ; 
and  what  are  stronger  than  all  human  evidence, 
those  unerring  principles  in  human  nature  itself, 

*This  circumstance  is  mentioned  in  a  manu- 
script letter ;  what  Cooke  declared  to  the  House  is 
in  Rushworth,  vol.  i.  p.  jaj. 

1 1  refer  the  critical  student  of  our  history  to 
the  duke's  speech  at  the  council  table  as  it  appears 
in  Rushworth,  i.  S^j  ;  hut  what  I  add  respecting 
his  personal  sacrifices  is  from  manuscript  letters. 
Sloane  mss.  4177.    Letter  490,  &c. 


SECRET  HISTOBT  OF  CHABLES  I. 


indoubtrdljr  figbcd  to 


bu  comUtaliotul  chvictcr;  «ul  Buckinchain  ax 

"""■"  "'  —'aery  jLaii<to  bb  m«t- 


n  diira^d  Itx 


ADdnliiecti.  Bjr  inlCTDii^UnKKnibjcct'i  ipccch 
witb  xhc  king^  tncaugViBe  flnmed  id  dnoair 
fmm  ihe  hpnour  mod  oniatji  o(  i  king.    Hot 

from  Ihc  Una  lo  tbe   people,  nor  Bny  loy^tt 

7^19  speech  wu  receired  br  minf  ivith  nccli. 
Rutioni;   tome  cried  cut,   '*WrJI  Hpoken,  Str 

poliltul   ttma«pheTe»  where  even  the    lighted 

I  bjve  often  nupccted  tbjt  Sir  John  EHiot^  by 

perwnil  tntinlby  to  BiKiiittffaikm.  1  hive  nerer 
been  enibJed  la  ucrrUin  the  fKt;  but  t  find 
tbit  be  b»  left  in  muuxiipt  ■  coUeclion  of 

head  poliliol  reroJutions,  we  ibould  find  hi>« 
emily  penond  hitredi  hire  acliuted  them  in 


Iban  perhipi  some  of  m  >nspef:t.    1  cmnoE  pbs 
lake  fnm  two  \trf  notoriou  poliiicuns — Wat 


oT  Chule9»  though  ?i 


hiEhett   Tntgniiude-    The   curioui  eruditkm   of 
of  pttrioc*  who  merit  no  iuJcriorcekbTlIy,  ibou^, 

UboriniU  lltenture,  we  onlv  du:irTCT  them  in  thr 


■lEumeoti  of  liwyei*.  'ind  the 


l>y» 


:  by  Coke! 


e»mined  erer^  one  lyUahntnm,  ind  whoever  vid 
Ih^  wen  muliljted  ipokefiUe!  Of  »flinbiguDw 

subject,  Ihmt  il  Kcmt  they  considered  il  Eo  depend 


winliiig  grace."     I  would  DM  nilly  Ihe  glmy  o 
the  pitrioljc  blow  which  ended  the  rebellion  wit] 


:hn)ngh  ind  through  with  hii  di^ ; 


ft 


AND  HIS  FIRST  PARLIAMENTS. 


55' 


A  itsitlhig  Tnesage,  on  the  lath  of  April,  was 
•ent  by  the  kin^,  for  det^tcb  of  business.  The 
boose,  struck  witii  astonishment,  desired  to  hare 
it  repeated.  They  remained  sad  and  silent.  No 
one  cared  to  open  the  debate.  A  whimsical,  crack- 
brained  poiitictan.  Sir  Francis  Nethenole,  suddenly 
started  np,  entreating  leave  to  tdl  his  last  night's 
dream.  Some  langhmg  at  him,  he  observed,  that 
*'  kingdoms  had  b^n  saved  by  cheaoM  I  '*  Allowed 
to  proceed,  he  said,  **  he  saw  two  good  pastures ;  a 
flock  of  sheep  waa  in  the  one,  and  a  bellwether 
alone  in  tbe  other;  a  great  ditch  was  between 
U»em»  and  a  narrow  bridge  over  the  ditch.'* 

He  was  interrupted  by  the  speaker,  who  told 
him  that  it  stood  not  with  the  gravity  of  the  house 
to  listen  to  dreams ;  bnt  the  house  was  inclined  to 
bear  him  ont. 

"Tbe  sheep  would  sometimes  go  over  to  tbe 
bellwctho',  or  the  bellwether  to  the  sheep.  Once 
both  met  on  the  narrow  bridge,  and  the  question 
was  who  should  go  back,  since  both  coulJ  not  go 
on  without  danger.  One  sheep  gave  counsel  that 
the  sheep  on  the  bridge  should  lie  on  their  bellies, 
and  let  ttie  bellwether  go  over  their  backs.  The 
application  of  this  dilemma  he  left  to  the  house."* 
It  must  be  confessed  that  the  bearing  ci  the  point 
was  more  ambiguous  than  some  of  the  important 
ones  that  formed  the  subjects  of  tierce  contention. 
D^rtnu  sum,  non  (Md^us  /  It  is  probable  that  this 
fant»tical  politician  did  not  vote  with  the  oppo- 
sition ;  for  Blliot,  Wentworth,  and  Coke  pro- 
tested agidnst  the  interpretation  of  dreams  in  the 
bouse! 

When  tbe  attorney-general  motioned  that  the 
liberties  of  tbe  subject  might  be  moderated,  to 
reconcile  the  differences  between  themselves  and 
the  sovereign.  Sir  Bdward  Coke  observed,  that 
**the  true  mother  would  never  consent  to  tbe 
dividing  of  her  child."  On  this,  Buckingham 
swore  that  Coke  intimated,  that  the  king,  his 
master,  was  the  prostitute  of  the  state.  Coke 
protested  against  the  misinterpretation.  The  dream 
of  Nethersole,  and  the  metaphor  of  Coke,  were 
alike  dauigerous  in  parliamentary  discussion. 

In  a  manuscript  letter  it  is  said,  that  the  House 
of  Commons  sat  four  days  without  speaking  or 
doing  anything.  On  the  first  of  Mav  Secretary 
Cooke  delivered  a  message,  asking,  whether  thqr 
would  rely  upon  the  king's  ti/ord  /  This  question 
was  followed  by  a  long  silence.  Several  speeches 
are  reported  in  the  letters  of  the  times,  which  are 
not  in  Kushworth.  Sir  Nathaniel  Rich  observed, 
that  "  confident  as  he  was  of  the  royal  word,  what 
did  any  indetinite  word  ascertain  ?"  Pym  said, 
"  We  have  his  Majesty's  coronation  oath  to  main- 
tain the  aw^  of  England ;  what  need  we  then 
toke  his  word  ?"  He  proposed  to  move  •*  Whether 
we  should  take  the  king's  word  or  no."  Thu  was 
resisted  hy  Secretary  Cooke ;  "  What  would  they 
say  in  forncn  parts,  if  the  people  of  Bngland  would 
not  trust  CKir  king  ?"  He  desired  the  house  to 
call  Pym  to  order ;  on  which  Pym  replied,  "  Truly, 
Mr.  Speaker,  I  am  just  of  the  same  opinion  I  was ; 
viz.  that  the  king's  oath  was  as  powerful  as  his 
word."  Sir  John  Blliot  moved  that  it  be  put  to 
the  question,  "  because  they  that  would  have  it, 
do  urge  us  to  that  point."    Sir  Bdward  Coke  on 

P  Manuscript  letter. 


this  occasion  made  a  memorable  speech,  of  which 
the  following  passage  is  not  given  in  Rush  worth. 

**  We  sit  now  in  parliament,  and  therefore  must 
take  his  majesty's  xvord  no  other^wisi  than  in  a 
parliamtntary  way ;  that  is,  of  a  matter  agreed  on 
by  both  houses— his  majesty  sitting  on  his  throne 
in  his  robes,  with  his  crown  on  his  head,  and 
sceptre  in  his  hand,  and  in  full  parliament ;  and 
his  royal  assent  being  entered  upon  record,  in 
perfetuam  rei  memoriam.  This  was  thg  royal  word 
qfa  king  in  parliament,  and  not  a  word  delivered 
in  a  chamber,  and  out  of  the  mouth  of  a  secretary 
at  the  second  hand ;  therefore  I  motion,  that  the 
House  of  Commons,  mon  majorum,  should  draw  a 
petition,  d*  droict,  to  his  majesty ;  which,  being 
confirmed  by  both  houses,  and  assented  unto  by 
his  maiesty,  will  be  as  firm  an  act  as  any.  Not 
that  I  distrust  the  king,  but  that  I  cannot  take  his 
trust  but  in  a  parliamentary  way."* 

In  this  speech  of  Sir  Edward  Coke  we  find  the 
first  mention,  in  the  legal  style,  of  the  ever-me- 
morable "Petition  of  Right,"  which  two  days 
after  was  finished.  The  reader  must  pursue  its 
history  among  the  writers  of  opposite  parties. 

On  Tuesday,  June  j,  a  royal  message  announced, 
that  on  the  nth  the  present  sessions  would  close. 
This  utterly  disconcerted  the  commons.  Religious 
men  considered  it  as  a  judicial  vbitation  for  the 
sins  of  the  people ;  others  raged  with  suppressed 
feelings ;  they  counted  up  all  the  disasters  which 
had  of  late  occurred,  all  which  were  charged  to 
one  man :  they  knew  not,  at  a  moment  so  urgent, 
when  all  their  liberties  seemed  at  stake,  whether 
the  commons  should  fly  to  the  lords,  or  to  the 
king.  Sir  John  Elliot  said,  that  as  they  intended 
to  furnish  his  majesty  with  money,  it  was  proper 
that  he  should  give  tnem  time  to  supply  him  with 
counsel :  he  was  renewinjg  his  old  attacks  on  the 
duke,  when  he  was  suddenly  interrupted  by  the 
speaker,  who,  starting  from  the  chair,  declared, 
that  he  was  commanded  not  to  suffer  him  to 
proceed;  Elliot  sat  down  in  sullen  silence.  On 
Wednesday  Sir  Bdward  Coke  broke  the  ice  of 
debate.  "  That  man,"  said  he  of  the  duke,  '*  is 
tbe  grievance  of  grievances !  As  for  going  to  the 
lords,"  he  added,  "that  is  not  -via  regia ;  our 
liberties  are  impeached — it  is  our  concern !" 

On  Thunday  the  vehement  cry  of  Coke  against 
Buckingham  was  followed  up ;  as,  says  a  letter- 
writer,  when  one  good  hound  recovers  the  scent, 
the  rest  come  in  with  a  full  cry.  A  sudden 
message  from  the  king  absolutely  forbade  them  to 
asperse  any  of  his  majesty's  ministers,  otherwise 
bis  majesty  would  instantly  dissolve  them. 

This  fell  like  a  thunderbolt;  it  struck  terror  and 
alarm ;  and  at  the  instant,  the  House  of  Commons 
was  changed  into  a  scene  of  tragical  melancholy ! 
All  the  opposite  passions  of  human  nature— all  tne 
national  evils  which  were  one  day  to  burst  on  the 
country,  seemed,  on  a  sudden,  concentrated  in 
this  single  spot !  Some  were  seen  weeping,  some 
were  expostulating,  and  some,  in  awful  prophecy, 
were  contemplating  the  future  ruin  of  the  king- 
dom ;  while  others,  of  more  ardent  daring,  were 

—  —  I  -     -  — 

*  These  speeches  are  entirely  drawn  from  manu- 
scjript  letters.  Coke's  may  be  subsuntially  found 
in  Rushworth|  but  without  a  singly  ^xproMion  as 
U«rc  given, 


^^n   I  miyrats—9mm 


n-mim 


Uw.  I.  !.•»»  m. 


■■V 


nm  ■   ii.j^r-^rmea<»imi 


KMOT 


SECRET  HISTOBT  OF  CHARLES  I. 


Smid,  i|ii«Iing  Ibe  tttrified,  lod    htppir  chinie  which  •  (cw  cUphi. 
m  isni  Ihe  dtapuiiDg.     Min;' i  f>u  pfttx  Kingdom.     BveifwhcR 

'ru»  fiikd  Ihnn.      '~'  .  .^    . 

ne  bjr  bb  kvLlD^  w 


e: 


Ch^ila  pmhiblf  hid  been  gTcitly  jiffcctcd  by 
imum  -  fn  on  fiidiy  the  royil  nnHigc  ImpMled, 


,"  w£kh  Ihsy  hid  hegi 


leaplc'i  lilxrtiattnTigEhen  Ihe 


king  bid  btffofc  givcD  il,  with  uy  otucn'ttion  cd 
■I.  Cbirln  now  grinted  >hii  \  derliring  Ihil  hl> 
HTond  iniwet  to  Ihe  p«iliao  in  nowiK  diaired 
from  bit  firvi;  "hui  )ou  now  tee  how  icidy  I 

hive  done  my  pan ;  wbcrefoTe»  if  thii  pirliimenl 


er  i>  printed  in  Ruihwortb,  V 
uuwet  11  ID  Ruibwofthj  Vi 


r  and  pouDdige,  tl: 
bipeopl*.  ThiimbjKtigiiBiin 


iy  II  WH  not— Dcveroexneti  mm  od  miny 

ag^  pctHiui  induilry  uloniihed  all  the 
t^ce-    One  wriiei.  thai  the  king  bad  dooe 

1  ehiqueDl  ttite  pipet  ii  in  RtiiliwTinbj 


/-f 


ANV  HIS  FIRST  PARLIAMENTS. 


553 


to  his  owD  charge,  but  took  the  f^eneral  direction 
into  his  own  hands.*  In  private,  Charles  deeply 
mourned  the  loss  of  Buckingham  ;  he  gave  no  en- 
couragemcnt  to  his  enemies :  the  king  called  him 
"hb  martyr,"  and  declared,  "the  world  was 
greatly  mistaken  in  him  ;  for  it  was  thought  that 
tne  favourite  had  ruled  bis  majesty,  but  it  was  far 
otherwise ;  for  that  the  duke  had  been  to  him  a 
faithful  and  an  obedient  servant."  t  Such  were 
the  feelings  and  Ideas  of  the  unfortunate  Charles 
the  First,  which  it  is  necessarv  to  become  ac- 
quainted with  to  jud^  of;  few  nave  possessed  the 
leisure  or  the  disposition  to  perform  this  historical 
duty,  involved,  as  it  is,  in  the  history  of  our 
passions.  If  ever  the  man  shall  be  viewed,  as  well 
as  the  monarch,  the  private  history  of  Charles  the 
First  will  form  one  of  the  most  pathetic  of  bio- 
graphies.l 

All  the  foreign  expeditions  of  Charles  the  First 
were  alike  disastrous ;  the  vast  genius  of  Richelieu, 
at  its  meridian,  had  paled  our  ineffectual  star! 
Tlie  dreadful  surrender  of  Rochelle  had  sent  back 
our  armv  and  navy  baffled  and  disgraced ;  and 
Buckingnam  had  timely  perished,  to  be  saved 
from  having  one  more  reproach,  one  more  politi- 
cal  crime,  attached  to  his  name.  Such  failures 
did  not  improve  the  temper  of  the  times ;  but  the 
most  brilliant  victory  would  not  have  changed  the 
fate  of  Charles,  nor  allaved  the  fiery  spirits  in  the 
commons,  who,  as  Charles  said,  "  not  satisfied  in 
bearing  complainers,  had  erected  themselves  into 
inquisitors  att«r  complaints." 

Parliament  met.  The  king's  speech  was  con- 
ciliatory. He  acknowledged  that  the  exaction  of 
the  duties  of  the  customs  was  not  a  right  which 
he  derived  from  his  hereditary  prerogative,  but 
one  which  he  enjoved  as  the  sift  of  nis  people. 
These  duties  had  inoeed  not  yet  been  formally  coh> 
firmni  by  parliament  to  Charles,  but  they  had 
never  been  refused  to  the  sovereign.  The  king 
closed  with  a  fervent  ejaculation,  that  the  session, 
begun  with  confidence,  might  end  with  a  mutual 
good  understanding. 

The  shade  of  Buckingham  was  no  longer  cast 
between  Charles  the  First  and  the  commons.  And 
yet  we  find  that  "their  dread  and  dear  sovereign" 
was  not  allowed  any  repose  on  the  throne. 

A  new  demon  of  national  discord,  Religion,  in  a 
metaphysical  garb,  reared  its  distracted  head. 
This  evil  spirit  had  been  raised  by  the  conduct  of 
the  court  divines,  whose  political  sermons,  with 
their  attempts  to  return  to  the  more  solemn  cere- 
monies of  the  Romish  church,  alarmed  some 
tender  consciences ;  it  served  as  a  masked  battery 
for  the  patriotic  party  to  change  their  ground  at 
will,  without  slackening  their  fire.  When  the 
king  urged  for  the  duties  of  his  customs,  he  found 
that,  he  was  addressing  a  committee  sitting  for 


*  Manuscript  letters ;  Lord  Dorset  to  the  Earl 
of  Carlisle.— Sloane  u%%.  4x78,  Letter  519. 

t  Manuscript  letter. 

t  I  have  already  given  die  "Secret  History  of 
Charles  the  First,  and  his  Queen,"  where  I  have 
traced  the  firmness  and  independence  of  his  cha- 
racter. In  another  article  will  be  found  as  much 
of  the  "  Secret  History  of  the  Duke  of  Bucking- 
ham "  as  I  have  been  enabled  to  acquire. 


religion.    Sir  John  Elliot  threw  out  a  singular  ex- 

Kression.  Alluding  to  some  of  the  bishops,  whom 
e  called  "  masters  of  ceremonies,"  he  confessed 
that  some  ceremonies  were  commendable,  such  as 
"  that  we  should  stand  up  at  the  repetition  of  the 
creed,  to  testify  the  resolution  of  our  hearts  to 
defend  the  religion  we  profess,  and  in  some 
churches  they  did  not  only  stand  upright,  but 
^vith  thiir  nvords  dratun."  His  speech  was  a 
spark  that  fell  into  a  well-laid  train ;  scarcely  can 
we  conceive  the  enthusiastic  temper  of  the  House 
of  Commons,  at  that  moment,  when,  after  some 
debate,  they  entered  into  a  v<nv  to  preserve  "  the 
articles  of  religion  established  by  parliament,  in 
the  thirtttnth  ytar  nf  our  late  Queen  Bitxabeth  !'* 
and  this  ww  was  immediately  followed  up  by  a 
petition  to  the  king  for  a  fast  for  the  increasing 
miseries  of  th^  reformed  churches  abroad.  Parlia- 
ments are  liable  to  have  their  passions  I  Some  of 
these  enthusiasts  were  struck  by  a  panic,  not 
perhaps  warranted  by  the  danger  of  "  Jesuits  and 
Arminians."  The  ung  answered  them  in  good- 
humour  ;  obser>-ing,  however,  on  the  state  of  the 
reformed  abroad,  "that  fighting  would  do  them 
more  good  than  fasting."  He  granted  them  their 
fast,  but  they  would  now  grant  no  return  ;  for  now 
they  presented  "  a  Declaration  "  to  the  king,  that 
tonnage  and  poundage  must  give  precedency  to 
religion  1  The  king's  answer  still  betrays  no  ill 
temper.  He  confessed  that  he  did  not  think  that 
"  religion  was  in  so  much  danger  as  they  affirmed." 
He  reminds  them  of  tonnage  and  poundage ;  "  I  do 
not  so  much  desire  it  out  of  greediness  of  the 
thing,  as  out  of  a  desire  to  put  an  end  to  those 
questions  that  arise  between  me  and  some  of  my 
subjects." 

Never  had  the  king  been  more  moderate  in  his 
claims,  or  more  tender  in  his  style ;  and  never  had 
the  commons  been  more  fierce,  and  never,  in 
truth,  so  utterly  inexorable !  Often  kings  are 
tyrannical,  and  sometimes  parliaments:  a  body 
corporate,  with  the  infection  of  passion,  may 
perform  acts  of  injustice,  like  the  individual  who 
abuses  the  power  with  which  he  is  invested.  It 
was  insisted  that  Charles  should  give  up  the 
receivers  of  the  customs,  whom  they  denounced 
as  capital  enemies  to  the  king  and  kingdom,  and 
those  who  submitted  to  the  duties  as  accessories. 
When  Sir  John  Elliot  was  pouring  forth  invectives 
against  some  courtiers — however  they  may  have 
merited  the  blast  of  his  eloquence — ^he  was  some- 
times interrupted  and  sometimes  cheered,  for  the 
stinging  personalities.  The  timid  speaker  refusing 
to  put  the  question,  suffered  a  severe  reprimand 
from  Selden ;  "  If  you  will  not  put  it,  we  must  sit 
still,  and  thus  we  shall  never  be  able  to  do  any- 
thing 1"  The  house  adjourned  in  great  heat ;  the 
dark  prognostic  of  their  next  meeting,  which  Sir 
Symonds  D'Ewes  has  marked  in  his  diary  as  "  the 
roost  gloomy,  sad,  and  dismal  day  for  England  that 
happened  for  five  hundred  years!" 

On  this  fatal  day,*  the  speaker  still  refusing  to 
put  the  question,  and  announcing  the  king's  com- 
mand for  an  adjournment.  Sir  John  Elliot  stood 
up !  Tlie  speaker  attempted  to  leave  the  chair, 
but  two  members,  who  had  placed  themselves  on 


*  Monday,  and  of  March,  1629. 


I. 


miwi^mmi^f'fwmt 


WMBine,  treoibling  ipeiktr,  ttil 


•hetpf    The 


i^kcr  *ta  bitterly  rt 

houv  ID  MTOOgl/  dii-idtfii,  undAunTcdJ)' nalchinK 
□p  tbv  pAper,  uid,  "I  ituJI  then  eipreu  that  by 
my  tonmie  vhicb  thii  paper  ihould  hue  ddne/' 
Deniil  HoUis  XHumnl  the  chiTictcr  of  (pukcr, 

duiiiiioiuor  Ihe  puly.  The  iloon  weie  lAkcd, 
uil  tbe  ke)i  l^d  oa  the  uhle.    The  klog  kdI  for 

hii  gdud — in  rbe  mctavMIe  tbc  piuteftation  wmi 


till  cbe  memonhle"  Lcnighiliamcnt,"girn  us 
judge  111  the  bouc  atikc  guilty,  tor  theie  jtre 
bciiiA  but  nmc  few  Tipen  *woog  them  (hit  did 

Thu  hare  t  tnced,  ftep  bv  step»  tbc  secret  hit- 
IWT  of  Chuja  Ibe  FinI  *Dd  hit  early  pilliamenti. 


t  Al  Ibe  ume  minr  unihinbieilly  CDiuideml 
that  ■■  wa  1  men  foclioo  In  Ibe  bouic.  Sir 
S;  maudl  D'Bvo  wu  cinunly  m  paljlii:ian— but, 

Ihfi  opmioa  in  bri  Dlir^  '  "  1  caniwL  deem  but  (he 
grenEer  pan  of  Ihe  bouK  were  rnoraiiy  honc4 
men  1  but  Ihne  were  Ihe  lean  guilty  or  Ihe  r.iiil 


je  philowphy  of  hn  art. 


it  party  inxre  tbe  rii 


The  Betete  and  UDrekenting  conduct  i 
£lLiDt»  hd  prompt  c^iKDce  arnd  bnli 

draw  together  Ibe  iDacr  |unicLn  of  IP 


THE  RUMP. 

£a^iih.      It  hasclcved  up 


.me  pan  in   the  English  Eeroluli 

been  inu^Deil  thut  our  Englbb 
impelled  by  A  pTineiple  different  t 


The  origin  of  thii  poUtlca]  byname  h**  ofWn 

ough  all  partiea  content  lo  repiobtte  it, 
ngiii  for  it  M  dirieimt  allufion.    There  a  alwni 
rniilure  of  Ibe  ludicfoul  with  ttie  Tragk  in  the 


•t 


THE  RUMP. 


555 


Tories  and  the  Whig?  would  in  the  aame  predica- 
ment ;  a  secret  reconciliation  had  taken  place,  to 
buT}'  in  oblivion  their  former  jealousies,  that  they 
might  unite  to  rid  themseh-es  from  that  tyranny  of 
tyrannies,  a  hydra>headed  government ;  or,  as 
Hume  observes,  that  **  all  efforts  should  be  used 
for  the  overthrow  of  the  RuMr ;  m  they  called  the 
parliament,  in  allusion  to  that  part  of  the  animal 
Dody."  The  sarcasm  of  the  allurion  seemed  obvi- 
otis  to  our  polbhed  historian  ;  yet,  looking  more 
narrowly  for  its  origin,  we  shall  find  among  those 
who  lived  nearer  the  times,  how  indistinct  were 
their  notions  of  thb  nickname.  Evelyn  says  that 
"  the  Rump  Parliament  was  so  called,  as  retaining 
some  few  rotten  members  of  the  other."  Roger 
Coke  describes  it  thus :  "  You  must  now  be  con- 
tent with  a  piece  of  the  Commom,  called  '  The 
Rump.' "  And  Carte  calls  the  Rump  "  the  carcase 
of  a  House,"  and  seems  not  precisely  aware  cf  the 
contemptuous  allusion.  But  how  do  "  rotten 
members,"  and  "  a  carcase,"  agree  with  the  notion 
of  "  a  Rump  ?"  Recently  the  editor  of  the  Life  of 
Colonel  Hutchinson  has  conveyed  a  novel  origin. 
"  The  number  of  the  members  of  the  Long  Parlia- 
ment having  been  by  seclusion,  death,  &c.,  verv 
much  reduced," — a  remarkable  &c.  this !  by  which 
our  editor  seems  adroitly  to  throw  a  veil  over  the 
forcible  transportation  of  two  hundred  members  at 
one  swoop,  by  the  Rumpers, — "  the  remainder  was 
compaixrd  to  the  rump  nf  a  fowl  nvhich  'was  kft, 
all  the  rest  being  eaten."  Our  editor  even  con- 
siders thb  to  be  "  a  coarse  emblem ;"  yet  "  the 
rump  of  a  fowl "  could  hardly  oflend  e%*en  a  lady's 
delicacy !  Our  editor,  probably,  was  somewhat 
anxious  not  to  degrade  too  bnvly  that  antimcnar- 
chical  party,  designated  by  the  opprobrious  term. 
Ferhaps  it  is  pardonable  in  Mrs.  Macaulay  (an 
historical  lady,  and  a  "  Rumper ;"  for  she  calb 
••the  Levellers"  "a  brave  ana  virtuous  party"), 
to  have  paned  over  in  her  history  anv  mention  of 
the  offensive  term  at  all,  as  well  as  the  ridiculous 
catastrophe  which  they  underwent  in  the  poli- 
tical revolution,  which  we  must  beg  leave  not  to 
pass  by. 

Thb  party  coinage  has  been  ascribed  to  Clement 
Walker,  their  bitter  antagonbt ;  who,  having  sa- 
crificed no  inconsiderable  fortune  to  the  cause  of 
what  be  considered  constitutional  liberty,  was  one 
of  the  violently  ejected  members  of  the  Long  Par- 
liament, and  perished  in  prison,  a  victim  to  honest 
unbending  principles.  His  "  History  of  Indepen- 
dency "  b  a  rich  Iceacy  bequeathed  to  posterity,  of 
all  their  great  miscfoings,  and  their  petty  villanics, 
and,  above  all,  of  their  secret  history  :  one  likes  to 
know  of  what  blocks  the  idob  of  the  people  are 
sometimes  carved  out. 

Clement  Walker  notices  "the  votes  and  acts 
of  this  fag  tnd;  this  rump  of  a  parliament,  with 
corrupt  maggots  in  it."*  This  hideous,  but  de- 
scriptive image  of  "The  Rump,"  had,  however, 
Kt  forward  Mfore ;  for  the  collector  of  "  the  Rump 
n^"  tells  ns,  **If  you  a.«ked  who  ramed  it 
RumPt  know  'twas  so  styled  in  an  hones  sheet  of 
prayer,  called  *  The  Bloody  Rump,'  written  btjore 
the  trial  of  our  late  sovereign  ;  but  the  word  ob- 
tained not  vnhfersal  notice,  till  it  flew  from  the 
mouth   of   Major-General    Brown,  at   a   public 

*  History  of  Independency,  Part  U.  p.  53. 


assembly  in  the  days  of  Richard  Cromwell."  Thus 
it  happens  that  a  stinging  nickname  has  been 
frequently  applied  to  render  a  (action  eternally 
odious ;  and  the  chance  expression  of  a  wit,  when 
adopted  on  some  public  occasion,  circulates  among 
a  whcle  people.  The  present  nickname  originated 
in  derision  en  the  expulsion  of  the  majority  of  the 
Long  Parliament,  by  the  usurping  minority.  It 
probably  slept ;  fcr  who  would  have  stirred  it 
through  the  Protectorate  ?  and  finally  awakened  at 
Richard's  restored,  but  fleeting  "  Rump,"  to  wit- 
ness its  own  ridiculous  extinction. 

Our  Rump  passed  through  three  stages  in  its 
political  progress.  Preparatory  to  the  trial  of  the 
sovereign,  the  antimonarchiciil  party  constituted 
the  minority  in  "  the  Long  Parliament :"  the  very 
byename  by  which  thb  parliament  is  recognised 
seemed  a  grievance  to  an  impatient  people,  vacil- 
lating with  chimerical  projectsof  government,  and 
now  accustomed  to  pull  down  all  existing  institu- 
tions, from  a  wild  indefinite  notion  of  political 
equality.  Such  was  the  temper  of  the  times,  that 
an  act  of  the  most  violent  injustice,  openly  per- 
formed, ser\-ed  only  as  the  jest  of  the  day,  a  jest 
which  has  paucd  into  histor}-.  The  forcible  expul- 
sion of  two  hundred  of  their  brother  members,  by 
those  who  afterwards  were  saluted  as  "  The  Rump," 
was  called  **  Pride's  Purge,"  from  the  activity  of  a 
colonel  of  that  name,  a  military  adventurer,  who 
was  onlv  the  blind  and  brutal  instrument  of  his 
party  ;  ^or  when  he  stood  at  the  door  of  the  Com- 
mons, holding  a  paper  with  the  names  of  the 
members,  he  did  not  personally  know  one  !  And 
his  "  Purge"  might  have  operated  a  quite  opposite 
effect,  administered  by  his  own  unskilful  hand, 
had  not  Lord  Grey  of  Grobv,  and  the  doorkeeper 
— worthy  dispersers  of  a  British  senate  !— pointed 
out  the  obnoxious  members,  on  whom  our  colonel 
laid  his  hand,  and  sent  off  by  hb  men  to  be  de- 
tained, if  a  bold  member,  or  to  be  deterred  from 
sitting  in  the  house,  if  a  frightened  one.  Ttiis 
colonel  had  been  a  drayman  ;  and  that  contempt- 
ible knot  of  the  Commons,  reduced  to  fifty  or 
sixty  confederates,  which  assembled  after  his 
*•  Purge,"  were  called  "  Colonel  Pride's  Dray- 
horses  !" 

It  was  this  Rump  which  voted  the  death  of  the 
sovereign,  and  abolished  the  regal  oflice,  and  the 
house  of  peers — as  "  unnecessary,  burdcnsiorre,  and 
dangerous!"  Every  office  in  parliament  feemcd 
**  dangerous  "  but  that  of  the  "  Custodes  li))ertatis 
Angliar,"  the  keepers  of  the  liberties  of  England  1 
or  rather  "the  gaolers!"  "The  legislative  half- 
quarter  cf  the  House  of  Commons  I"  indignantly 
exclaims  Clement  Walker — the  "  Montague  "  of 
the  French  revolutionists  I 

"The  Red-coats,"  as  the  military  were  nick- 
named, soon  taught  their  masters, "  tne  Rumpers," 
sil^ce  and  obedience  :  these  having  raised  one 
colossal  man  for  their  own  purpose,  were  annihi- 
lated by  him  at  a  single  blow.  Cromwell,  five 
years  after,  turned  them  out  of  their  house,  and 
put  the  keys  into  hb  pocket.  Their  last  public 
appearance  was  in  the  fleeting  days  of  Richard 
Cromwell,  when  the  comi-tragedy  of '"  The  Rump" 
concluded  by  a  catastrophe  as  ludicrous  as  that  of 
Tom  Thumb's  tragedy ! 

How  such  a  faction  used  their  instruments  to 
gather  in  the  common  spoil,  and  how  their  instru« 


!•««■ 


556 


THE  RUMP, 


ments  at  length  converted  the  hands  which  held 
them  into  instruments  themselves,  appears  in  their 
history.  When  "  the  Long  Parliament  "  opposed 
the  designs  of  Cromwell  and  Ireton,  these  chiefs 
cried  up  "  the  liberty  of  the  people,"  and  denied 
"  the  authority  of  parliament :"  but  when  they 
effectuated  their  famous  "purge,"  and  formed  a 
House  of  Commons  of  themselves,  they  abolished 
the  House  of  Lords,  cr)  ing  up  the  supreme  autho- 
rity of  the  House  of  Commons,  and  crying  down 
the  liberty  of  the  people.  Such  is  the  history  of 
political  factions,  as  well  as  of  statesmen  \  Charles 
the  FiAh  at  first  made  use  of  the  pope's  authority 
to  subdue  the  Protestants  of  Germany,  and  then 
raised  an  army  of  ProtestanU  to  imprison  the 
pope  !  A  chain  of  similar  facts  may  be  framed  out 
of  modern  history. 

The  "  Rump,"  as  they  were  called  by  every  one 
but  their  own  party,  became  a  whetstone  for  the 
wits  to  sharpen  themselves  on  ;  and  we  have  two 
large  collections  of  "  Rump  Songs,"  curious 
chronicles  of  popular  feeling !  Without  this  evi- 
dence we  should  not  have  been  so  well  informed 
of  the  phases  of  'this  portentous  phenomenon. 
"  The  Rump "  was  celebrated  in  verse,  till  at 
length  it  became  "the  Rump  of  a  Rump  of  a 
Rump  !"  as  Foulis  traces  them  to  their  dwindled 
and  grotcsciue  appearance.  It  is  portrayed  by  a 
wit  of  the  times — 

"  The  Rump's  an  old  story,  if  well  understood, 
Tis  a  thing  dress'd  up  in  a  parliament's  hood. 
And  like  it— but  the  tail  stands  where  the  head 

shou'd ! 
Twould  make  a  man  scratch  where  it  does  not 

itch! 
Thev  say  'tis  good  luck  when  a  body  rises 
With  the  rump  upwards  ;  but  he  that  advises 
To  live  in  that  posture,  is  none  of  the  wisest." 

Cromwell's  hunting  them  out  of  the  house  by 
military  force  is  alluded  to— 

**  Our  politic  doctors  do  us  teach, 
That  a  blood-sucking  red  coat's  as  good  as  a  leech 
To  relieve  the  head,  if  applied  to  the  breech." 
In  the  opening  scene  of  the  Restoration,  Mrs. 
Hutchinson,  an  honest  republican,  paints  with 
dismay  a  scene  otherwise  very  ludicrous.  "  When 
the  town  of  Nottingham,  as  almost  all  the  rest  of 
the  island,  began  to  grow  mad,  and  declared  them- 
selves in  their  desires  of  the  king ;"  or,  as  another 
of  the  opposite  party  writes,  "  When  the  soldiery, 
who  hacl  hitherto  made  clubs  trumps^  resolved  now 
to  turn  up  the  kwg  nf  hearts  in  their  affections," 
the  rabble  in  town  and  country  vied  with  each 
other  in  "burning  the  Rump;"  and  the  literal 
emblem  was  hung  by  chains  on  gallowses,  with  a 
bonfire  underneath,  while  the  cries  of  "  Let  us 
bum  the  Rump  !  Let  us  roast  the  Rump !"  were 
echoed  ever)wnere.  The  suddenness  of  this  uni- 
versal change,  which  was  said  to  have  maddAied 
the  wisest,  and  to  have  sobered  the  mad,  must  be 
ascribed  to  the  joy  at  escaping  from  the  yoke  of  a 
military  despotism  ;  perhaps,  too,  it  marked  the 
rapid  transition  of  hope  to  a  restoration  which 
might  be  supposed  to  have  implanted  gratitude 
even  in  a  royal  breast  I  TTie  feelings  of  the  people 
expected  to  find  an  echo  from  the  throne ! 

"The  Rump,"  besides  their  general  resemblance 
to  the  French  anarchists,  had  also  some  minuter 


features  of  ugliness,  which  Englishmen  hare  dten 
exulted  have  not  marked  an  English  re%*oluticn — 
sanguinary  proscriptions !  We  had  thought  that 
we  had  no  revolutionary  tribunals !  do  Septem- 
brisers  \  no  Noyades !  no  moveable  guillotines 
awaiting  for  carts  loaded  with  human  victims' 
no  infuriated  republican  urging,  in  a  committee  of 
public  safety,  the  necessity  of  a  salutary  massacre  t 

But  if  it  be  true  that  the  same  motives  and  the 
same  principles  were  at  work  io  both  nations,  and 
that  the  like  personages  were  performing  in  Eng- 
land the  parts  which  these  did  afterwards  in 
France,  by  an  argument  h  prteti  we  might  be  sare 
that  the  same  revolting  crimes  and  chimerical 
projects  were  alike  suggested  at  London  as  at 
Pans.  Human  nature,  even  in  transactions  which 
appear  unparalleled,  will  be  (bund  to  preserve  a 
regularity  of  resemblance  not  always  suspected. 

The  first  great  tragic  act  was  closely  copied  by 
the  French ;  and  if  the  popular  page  of  our  histmy 
appears  unstained  by  their  revolutionary  axe,  this 
depended  only  on  a  slight  accident ;  (or  it  became 
a  question  of  "  yea'*  and  "  nay  !'*  and  was  only 
carried  in  the  negative  by  l«i/«  t/cices  in  the 
council !  It  was  debated  among  "  the  bloody 
Rump,"  as  it  was  hideously  designated,  "  wbethor 
to  massacre  and  to  put  to  the  sword  all  the  hinges 
party  /"*  Cromwell  himself  listened  to  the  sug- 
gestion ;  and  it  was  only  put  down  by  the  coolness 
of  political  calculation — the  dread  that  the  massacre 
would  be  too  general!  Some  of  the  Rump,  not 
ol)taining  the  blessedness  of  a  massacre,  still  clung 
to  the  happiness  of  an  immolation ;  and  many 
petitions  were  presented,  that  **  tnvo  or  three 
principal  gentlemen  of  the  royal  party  in  eacb 
COUNTY  might  be  sacrificed  to  justice,  whereby  the 
land  might  be  saved  from  Mood-guiltineu  f"  Sir 
Arthur  Haslerigg,  whose  *'  passionate  fondness  of 
liberty "  has  been  commended,t  was  one  of  the 
committee  of  safety  in  1647 — I,  too,  would  com- 
mend *•  a  passionate  lover  of  liberty,"  whenever  I 
do  not  discover  that  this  lover  is  much  more  intent 
on  the  dower  than  on  the  bride.  Haslerigg,  "  an 
absurd,  bold  man,"  as  Clarendon,  at  a  single 
stroke,  reveals  his  character,  was  resolved  not  to  oe 
troubled  w^ith  king  or  bishop,  or  any  power  in  the 
state  superior  to  *'  the  Rump's."  We  may  safely 
suspect  that  patriot  who  can  cool  his  vehemence 
in  spoliation.  Haslerigg  would  have  no  bishops, 
but  this  was  not  from  any  want  of  reverence  for 
church  lands,  for  he  heaped  for  himself  such  wealth 
as  to  have  been  nicknamed  "  the  bishop  of  Dur- 
ham." He  is  here  noticed  for  a  political  crime 
different  from  that  of  plunder.  When,  in  1649, 
this  venerable  radical  found  the  parliament  resist- 
ing his  views,  he  declared,  that  "Some  beads 
must  fly  off!"  adding, "  the  parliament  cannot  save 
England ;  we  must  look  another  way !"— direat- 
ening,  what  afterwards  was  done,  to  bring  in  the 
army  I  It  was  this  "passionate  knrer  of  liberty" 
who,  when  Dorislaus,  the  parliamentary  agent, 
was  assassinated  by  some  Scotchmen  in  Holland, 
moved  in  the  house,  that  "Six  rojralists  of  the 

*  Clement  Walker's  Hist,  of  Independency,  Part 
II.  p.  130.  Confirmed  by  Barwick  in  his  Life, 
p.  163. 

t  The  Rev.  Mark  Noble's  Memoirs  of  the  Pro- 
tectoral  House  of  Cromwell,  I.  405. 


tommon.  for  relicr  «.inH  >  fimiBt  in  the  Und. 
(UI  MiMILlt  obKrvc.irih»l   "ihiJ  ifinl  <//»,! 

WlliM"c.ll.""  ."Eutche^  of  .^n™n,-  whm 

Idd  chiJd,  Uld  fin  Ihc  cHy  l"t  miy  be  placed 
•mong  Ihcse  ciimej  which  m  committed  ro  ojieii 

l£e"*mie  aprcnion'of  the  ml  Cce^  of  Ofc 

willing  to  be  cruel  wjlbonl  "  bkiod-guiltincH." 

mored  la  (he  Lang  PnliinKiiI,  tlul  tbcoe  larJi 
*nA  gtnltemrit  who  were  "  nuUgnanti "  thould  be 
mU  u  ilavti  a  Ih  Drj  ij  jllptri,  or  tent  off  to 
Ibe  new  pLintilion)  in  (be  Wot  Indtes.  He  had 
*ll  Ihingt  pfepared  i  for  it  ti  added  (hMhebitlron- 
tncied  with  (wo  metchinti  (o  thlp  them  dH.I 
TIkk  via  ■  tnoit  bloodjr-minded  "  maker  DC 

ippointed  a  lecturer  bjr  the  Houx  of  Commun, 
who  ilwirt  led  out  of  Ibe  Lord'*  rtayer,  "  Ai 
we  Ibrgin!  them  that  tre>pa»  igilMt  m,"  and 
lubuimled. "  Lord,  iincc  Ihan  haM  now  drawn  out 
thy  ivotd,  let  It  not  be  ihcathed  agiln  till  K  be 
glutted  In  the  blooil  of  the  tnaligiunts."  I  linil  too 

doetit  the  ttoik  of  the  Lard  ueeiiecnlLy^  ami 
keeveih  back  his  award  froDi  blood  I"  wai  the  cry 
of  the  wretch,  who,  when  a  celebraled  actor  aod 
rof  aliu  nied  fnr  quarter,  gare  oo  other  reply  than 
Ihai  of  "  titling  Ihe  kiIoii  to  Ibe  word,"  Their 
treitmeiil  of  the  Irbfa  nay  poslbly  be  admired  by 
a  true  Machiavelift  I  "Tbey  permiltedfinf  thou- 
•and  of  the  Iriib  to  enliit  in  Ihe  Ktiice  of  the 
klngi  of  Spain  and  France — in  other  words,  Ihey 

tyranny,  may  be  consideitd  aj  an  act  ol  mercy  ! 

iatlifying  thenuelvn  onlf  with  dividing  the  lor- 


hdr  own  p 

ny  b^  lo<  and  oW 

he  batiiei 
dilTetenny  — 
•old   (heir   S 

hey  iiKd'the  Scotch 

ml  equally  effieuion 
cotch    pnunen   (or 

•coveredllfiar-'lh 


nlion  whTch  had 
,c_»  .„  ,....c^.uB»„.  .^uldalwayireteiet 
II 1  and  for  Ihe  aecuTily  of  the  Ketolalion,  il  wu 
nccesnaiy  thai  «iiry  pcTKjn  who  wai  thirty  yeara 
old  in  1788  ihould  periib  on  the  Kiflbld  I"    The 


n,  of  ladcpendcncyj  P 


impjri  wa  also  obaerred  In  the  Fi 


the  fijMro/Uf  i»  ATdiMJule ,  to  pat  an  end  to 

humim  knowing  collected  Ktrcnlurinci 
Tiea—in  one  day  I  alleging  of  coutk  ton 

CDicrpTiae  by  being  pemuded  to  postpone 
day  or  Iwo,  when  lutkily  the  ^illDtiiH 

certfinly  proposed  j  a  tpcech  of  Seldcn'a, ' 
cannot  imnKdialely  Inni  ID,  put  a  alop  I 
Incendiaiiei.     It  wa>  debated  in  the  Rumi 


of  property.     The  perpetual  in*cctii-CJ 
figaati  prfff  f>  proceeded  fruindcmorjEtscdheiT 

ir  mad  caprevion  a^ml  propcni'.  Jnd 


ipanlally  commnnlcating  martial  alfain  to  the 
^ri^Dfii  of  England;"  the  monarchical  tille  our 
commonweaKh-men  had  not  yet  had  time  to 
Dbliterate  from  their  coUoquljU  ftyle.    This  vnler 

MtJrrtHf  11  would  be  bard  10  conccin  (he 
meannew  and  illiteracy  to  which  the  EngUab 
language  wu  reduced  under  Ibe  peni  of  titc 
rabble-writen  of  thete  dap,  had  we  not  wi(nea»ed 
in  (be  pretent  line  a  parallel  to  their  compmillom. 
"The  Hodentel"  »'■■  a  title  ataimed  on  Ibe 
principle  on  which  Hant  denDminaiid  liimxIC 
"  I'ami  do  peuple."  II  li  curioia,  (hat  Ihe  mnM 
ferocioui  poUtlciaiu  HuiUly  nam  (heir  modcra- 
lion.  KobapicTre,  In  hn  jiutiivilion,  decUirei 
thai  Mamt  '■  m'a  iouTeal  accuae  dc  M^tranlumi." 
*  Dewloard't  Hlaloiit  Miiloiopbique  de  l>  B*. 


•1-* 


•Mm 


"        •^--  '^'   •—    —^ 


558 


LIFE  AXD  HABITS  OF  A  LITERAUY 


The  same  acton,  playing  the  same  parts,  may  be 
always  paraJleled  in  their  langiiage  and  their 
dceib.  This  "Moderate"  steadily  pursued  one 
great  principle— the  cxcrthrow  of  all  Propektv. 
Assuming  that  proprrt}  was  the  original  cause  of 
tin  '  an  exhortation  to  the  people  for  this  purpose 
is  the  subject  ol  the  prewni  paper  :*  the  illustra- 
tion of  his  principle  is  as  striking  as  the  principle 
Itself. 

It  is  an  apology  for,  or  rather  a  defence  of, 
robber>- !  5>ome  moss-troopers  had  been  con- 
demned to  be  hangeil,  for  practising  tlwrir  \-enc- 
mble  custom  of  gratuitously  supphmg  themselves 
from  the  tlccks  ami  herds  of  their  weaker  neigh- 
bours :  our  ••  Moderate"  ingeniously  discovers  that 
the  lOMS  of  the«  men's  lives  is  to  be  attributed  to 
nothing  but  proptrty.  They  are  necessitate*!  t«> 
otiend  the  laws,  in  order  to  obtain  a  livelihood ' 

On   this  he    descants;    and    the    extract   is  a 
political  curiosity,  in  the   French  style!    **  Fro- 
ptrty  is  the  original  cause  ol  any  sm  between  party 
and  purty  as  to  civil  transactions.     And  since  the 
tyrant  is  t.ikcn  otT,  and  the  government  altered  in 
r.'-mine,  *o  cu^ht  it  really  to  rvtlound  to  the  good  j 
of  the  people  in  spectf ;  which  though  they-  cannot  | 
expevt  it  in  a  i.w  \ear>,  by  reason  ol  the  multi-' 
pltcity  f/  the  getitr)  in  authority,  command,  &c., 
who  dri\e  on  all  designs  lor  support  of  the  old 
government,  and  conseijuently  their  own  interest 
and  the  people's  ilaiery,  \et  tHey  doubt  not,  but  in 
time  the    |>eople  will'  herein  discern  their  own 
blindness  and  folly." 

In  Septeml>er,  he  advance<l  with  more  depth  of 
thought.  **  M'art  have  ever  l>ecn  clothed  with  the 
most  gracious  pretences—vi?.,  reformation  of  re- 
ligion, the  laws  of  the  land,  the  liberty  of  the 
subject,  &c.;  though  the  eilects  thereof  have 
prmcd  most  destructive  to  every  nation  ;  making 
the  sword,  and  not  the  people,  the  original  of  all 
authorities  for  many  iiundred  years  together, 
taking  away  each  man's  birthright,  ind  settling  upon 
a  yru>  A  rVkikLD  pkopkietv;  the  gn.uml  c»f  all 
cnil  oHences,  and  the  greatest  cause  of  most  sins 
ag.iinst  the  hea\enly  Deity.  Thu  tyranny  ami 
oppression  running  throiigh  the  veins  of  many  of 
our  predecessors,  and  being  too  long  maintained 
by  the  sword  upon  a  royal  foundation,  at  last 
became  so  customary,  as  /•  the  z'ulgar  it  seenud 
most  natural— xhc  only  reason  why  the  people  of 
this  time  are  so  ignorant  pj  their  btrthrtght,  their 
only  frceiiom,"  &c. 

••'The  birthright"  of  citoven  F.galiti  to  •*« 
cursed  propruiy  sittled  on  a  fen',"  was  not,  even 
ami-'Pg  the  French  J-^ctibia",  urged  with  more 
ama/ing  force.  Had  things  proceeded  according 
to  our  ••  Moderate's"  pl.*n,  "  the  people's  slavery  " 
had  been  something  worse.  In  a  short  time  the 
nation  would  have  had  more  proprietors  than 
property'.  Wc  base  a  curious  list  of  the  spolia- 
tions o(  those  members  of  the  House  of  Commons, 
who,  after  their  famous  seff-denytng  ordinances, 
appropriated  among  themselves  sums  of  money, 
oflices,  and  lands,  for  services  *'done  or  to  be 
done." 

The  most  innocent  of  this  new  goremment  of 
*'  the  Majesty  of  the  People,"  were  those  whose 

*  Tlie  Moderate,  from  Tuesday,  July  31,  to 
August  7,  1649. 


talents  had  been  limited  by  tiatnre  to  peddle 
and  imrloin  ;  puny  mechanics,  who  had  suddenly 
dropped  their  needles,  their  hammers,  and  their 
lasts,  and  slunk  out  from  behind  their  shop- 
counters  ;  those  who  had  never  aspired  beyond  the 
constable  of  their  parish,  were  now  seated  In  the 
council  of  state  ;  where,  as  Milton  describes  them, 
**  they  fell  to  huckster  the  commonwealth  :"  there 
they  met  a  more  rabid  nee  of  obscure  law>  en,  and 
discontented  men  of  family,  of  blasted Tepiitations ; 
adventuren,  who  were  to  command  the  militia 
and  nas-y  cf  Kngland, — govemon  of  the  three 
kingdoms !  w  hose  votes  and  ordinances  resounded 
with  nothing  else  but  new  impo^itions,  taxes, 
excises,  \  early,  monthly,  wetkly  sequestrations, 
compositions,'and  univcrral  robbery ! 

Baxter  vents  one  deep  groan  cf  indignation,  and 
presciently  announces  one  future  coiuiquencc  of 
He/orm  /  *'  In  all  this  appeared  the  severity  of 
God,  the  mutability  of  worldly  things,  and'  the 
fruits  (.f  error,  priile,  and  seltishncss,  to  be  charged 
kerea/itr  upon  lejormatwn  and  religion."  As  a 
statesman,  the  Kigaiity  cf  this  honest  prophet  was 
narrowed  by  the  horizon  rf  his  religious  s  irws ; 
for  he  avrilK-s  the  whole  as  •*  prepared  by  S.itan  to 
the  injury  ol  the  Protestant  cause,  and  the  ad- 
vantage of  the  Papists!"  But  dropping  his  par- 
ticular application  to  the  dc\-il  and  the  Papists, 
honest  Richard  Baxter  Is  perfectly  right  in  hu 
general  principle  concerning  "  Rum'pers," — "  Sans- 
culottes,'*—and  "  Radicals." 


LIFE   AND  HABITS   OF  A  LITERARY  ANTI- 
QUARY—OI.DYS  AND  HIS  MANUSCRIPTS. 

SUCH  a  picture  may  be  furnished  by  some  un- 
expected materials  which  my  inquiries  have  ob- 
tained cf  Oldys.  This  is  a  sort  of  personage  little 
known  to  the  wits,  who  write  more  than  they 
read,  and  to  their  volatile  notaries,  who  only  read 
what  the  wits  write.  It  is  time  to  vindicate  the 
honoun  of  the  few  whose  laborious  days  enrich 
the  stores  of  national  literature,  not  by  the  dupli- 
cates  but  the  supplements  of  knowledge.  A 
literary  antiquary  is  that  idler  whose  life  is  passed 
in  a  perpetual  x-oyage  autour  de  ma  chambre ;  fer- 
vent in  sagacious  diligence,  instinct  with  the  en- 
thusi;um  of  curious  inquiry,  critical  as  well  as 
erudite ;  he  has  to  arbitrate  betwxen  contending 
opinions,  to  resolve  the  doubtful,  to  clear  up  the 
otMcure,  and  to  gra.sp  at  the  remote;  so  busied 
with  other  times,  and  so  interested  for  other 
persons  than  those  about  him,  that  he  becomes 
the  inhabitant  cf  the  visionary  world  of  books. 
He  only  counts  his  days  by  his  acqubitions,  and 
may  l)e'  said  to  be  the'cRKATOR  or  rAcrs,  by  hb 
original  discoveries,  often  exciting  the  gratitude  of 
the  literary  world,  while  the  very  name  of  the 
benefactor  has  not  alwap  descended  with  hn 
inestimable  laboun. 

Such  is  the  man  whom  we  often  find,  when  he 
dies,  leaving  his  favourite  volumes  only  an  incom- 

Klcte  project !  and  few  of  thb  class  of  literary  men 
ave  escaped  the  fate  reserved  for  most  of  their 
brothera.  Voluminous  works  have  been  nsaalty 
left  unfinished  by  the  death  of  the  authon ;  and 
it  b  with  them  as  with  the  planting  of  trees,  of 


Aa/bculinl 


AXTIQCART^OLDTS  AXD  H13  i 

n  hu  foicihly DbscTvvd,  "There  1 

ibLy  rrmiTJu,  vhx  I  cunm  forbei 
be  libount  im  now  to  docriM 

cuUts  ibc  growth  of  ina  hu  ttt 


Atn  of  the  pat 
retiy  irircn  to  hi 


ihese  only  ctny  iu  throiiRb  the  lettcn  A  iwl  B 
ind  thovEh  MuruchcUi  and  Aniihed  tor  the  prca 
:>1heT  mluma,  tiK  torpor  oT  hpt  docetidanta  h« 
IcTnudcd  Burope  of  her  cliimi.  The  AbM  GougeT 


commence  thU  of  the  poeti  i  In 
in  miniucript  bare  periilKd.  Tt 
priKoribeBeneiUcttDa,  the  "Hi 

havE  only  bno  IbM  to  ciny  it  to  the  tweinh 
ceotury.    David  Ckmettt  dai){ned  the  mottei- 
teiuirc  blblio|$r3Lphy  which  hid  ever  appeiTcd; 
bill  the  diligent  lile  of  Ibe  wrltet  could  only  pro- 
ceed u  fu  a  H.    -nie  ilphibcHcal  order,  which 
ID  many  wrilen  or  Ihii  clan  ban  adopted,  b  - 
proi'cd  a  inoTtlf>iag  meirwnto  of  human  llf 
Titabosch)  wi>  w  fonuDitc  ■•  to  complete  I 
great  national  hiitoiy  of  ll*llan  lltenluiT.    Bi 
unhappily  for  ui,  Tinmas  WarUHi,  alter  fcelli 
hliway  through  Ibe  darker  ago  of  our  poetry. 
planning  the  mapof  the  beautiful  land,  of  which 
he  h^  only  a  piiph4lghi.  eapired  amiiht  bi« 
tolnmei.    The  ino-iiprecioiitpor1Uwcirwartoo'~ 
hiuory  it  but  the  fragmEOI  of  a  rfagmcnt^ 

Oldvi,  amona  thn  bfotbcihood,  bas  met  pel 
hapf  with  a  harder  fate  i  hh  published  works,  an 


like  the  i 
many  nai'c  onwn  the' 

biefiy  known  by  the  ci 


ii  |«rhipi  not  •  lia^  nory 
a].  Our  lively  anltquary,  wt~ 
sty  armour  than  for  mvty  v 
ovKt  thcK  flami  and  qolpt  ' 
fnehd,  to  enjoy  logeltier  a  i 


iiflictec^"l 


tbe  utter  aimpbCily  of  hh  heart  wai  guilelcv  a-« 
"  "'■■'■I's — c*-eT  open  to  the  designing.    The  noble 

lot  hlnori;<n  of  Kawleivh  fiom  Ihe  ronhiicmcnt 
of  the  Fleet,  where  probably  be  had  eiiitcd  lor- 

an  of  gran  that  the  duke  ufely  placed  Oinri 
Id  the  Heraldi-  College,  ai  Korroy  King  of  Aimi* 
But  nujva,  like  aU  My  and  letined  men,  had  cnn- 
tractcd  peoiliar  babitt  and  eloie  attachmenti  brt 

whom  be   ricetwuily  dlnuliHl   ai  "hti 

gntenive  whim  of  a  herald,  cRahli-hcd  "The 
Pr^on  Club."     Companlonihip  yicldi  the  poor 

hi*  unpurchajed  plea^TQ^     Binied  eier>' 

ng  among  the  departed  wits  and  the  learned 
r  coiiniri,  aome  image  wai  tedetted  fmm 
among  fall  comnnioni,  in  innie  Kc.ei  h»- 


fpirited  up 

Oldji'i  l.-tter  while  h 
friendi.    The  duke  1 

had  long  been  anmiODi 
o(anol9,thon^anb 


date  of  Ihb  promotion  ia 
pliibed  friend  the  Rcr.  t. 


'i"m 


I  the  Kcordi  of  the  mine, 
it^Kan  that  Oldp  hid  been  ^tarjwjt  i 


Dallaway  has  obligingly 
the  miege,  by  which  it 


LIFE  A.VD  BABITS  OF  A  LITERAST 


OuiTi'f  dwp  potiiiona  o*  »\e,  howrrrt,  gire  me 
An  apponnnil^  of  botnwjng  on  him  tb«  honour 
of  hfin^  the  auEbor  or  ji  populv  Anvrnntlc 
kong.  Mr.  Tdilor  informi  mc  thai  "Otd^  ■]- 
w))i  laertFd  An  be  wu  tbc  uthoi  of  Ibe  well- 

*  Biu]r»  eurioiu,  ttainty  Ay  V 
*nd  u  he  wu  >  rigid  lorer  of  tralb»  I  ikniht  not 

doien  o(  coUectioiH  (iDce  Ibe  )Tir  i;40,  the  lint 
CJTOK»  howA'CT,  though  ■  grcjl  joker  on  the 


>y  hiitoiy,  eiftpting 


ThinCiitummeMninei 
Vhougb  repelled  loihw 
Tbie^ron  lummcn  »he 


StiAkeapeue'i  dnmai  were  so  impcrfeclly  knovn» 
tlut  in  looking  ortr  Ibe  pl''>>>U'>  of  i^ii,  )ii<l 

tbey  were  acted,  tbey  were  Blways  Announced  It> 
hive  twen  '*  written  bv  ShAkeipeue."     Monincer 


Oiford,  yielded  up  his  enlire  divi  to  rocucha 

"  The  Biitiib  Liburian,"  it  wu  doted  lor  winl  of 

>cclu<k</  minuicripl,  wEence  he  drew  i  iirgrn 

deeply  indebted  lo  tbc  cdilorinl  cxre,  the  lule  ii 


/f 


ANTIQUARY^OLDYS  AND  HIS  MSS. 


561 


interested  bimaelf  in  their  afiPairs,  and  to  loved 
the  wit  and  the  learning  which  are  often  bright 
under  the  rust  of  antiquity,  that  his  own  un- 
courtly  style  is  embrowned  with  the  tint  of  a 
century  old.  But  it  was  thb  taste  and  curiosity 
which  alone  could  have  produced  the  extra- 
oidinaiy  rolume  of  Sir  Walter  Rawleigh's  life; 
a  work  richly  inlaid  with  the  most  curious  facts 
and  die  juxtaposition  of  the  most  remote  know* 
kdge:  to  judge  by  its  fulness  of  narrative,  it 
woulcl  seem  rather  to  have  been  the  work  of  a 
contemporary.* 

It  was  an  advantage  in  this  primeval  era  of 
literary  curiosity,  that  those  volumes  which  are 
now  not  even  to  be  found  in  our  national  library', 
where  certainly  they  are  perpetually  wanted,  and 
which  are  now  so  excessively  appreciated,  were 
exposed  on  stalls,  through  the  reigns  of  Anne 
and  two  of  her  successors.  Oldys  encountered 
no  competitor,  cased  in  the  invulnerable  mail  of 
hb  purse,  to  dispute  his  possession  of  the  rarest 
volume.  On  the  other  hand,  our  early  collector 
did  not  possess  our  advanta^ ;  he  could  not  fly 
for  instant  aid  to  a  "  Biographia  Britannica,"  he 
had  no  history  of  out  poetry,  nor  e\-en  '  of  our 
drama.  Oldyi  could  tread  in  no  man's  path, 
for  every  soil  about  him  was  unbroken  ground. 
He  had  to  create  everything  for  his  own  pur- 
poses. We  e>ther  fruit  from  trees  which  others 
nave  planted,  and  too  often  we  but  "  pluck  and 
eat." 

Nulla  £Ut  slru  linea  was  his  sole  hope  while 
he  was  accumulating  masses  of  notes;  and  as 
Oldts  never  used  his  pen  from  the  weak  passion 
of  scribbling,  but  from  the  urgency  of  preserving 
some  subttantjal  knowledge,  or  planning  some 
future  inquiry,  he  amassed  nothing  but  what  he 
wished  to  remember.  Even  the  minuter  plea- 
sures of  settling  a  date,  or  classifying  a  title-page, 
were  enjo^ents  to  his  incessant  pen.  Everything 
was  acquisition.  Thb  never-ending  business  ot 
research  appears  to  have  absorbed  his  powers,  and 
sometimes  to  have  dulled  hb  conceptions.  No 
one  more  aptly  exercised  the  tact  of  discovery ;  he 
knew  where  to  feel  in  the  dark :  but  he  was  not 
of  die  race — ^that  race  indeed  had  not  yet  appeared 
among  us — who  could  melt,  into  their  Corinthian 
brass,  the  mingled  treasures  of  Research,  Imagina- 
tion, and  Philosophy  ! 

We  may  be  curious  to  inquire  where  our 
Btcrar^  antiouary  deposited  these  discoveries  and 
curiosities  which  he  was  so  incessantly  acquiring. 
They  were  dispersed  on  many  a  fly-leaf  in  occa- 
sional memorandum-books;  in  ample  marginal 
notes  on  hb  authors — thev  were  sometimes  thrown 
into  what  he  caUs  hb  '*  parchment  budgets  "  or 
**  Bags  of  Biography— of  Botany— of  Obituary  " — 
I  of  "  Books  relative  to  London  "  and  other  titles 
and  bags,  which  he  was  every  day  filling.  Some- 
times his  collections  seem  to  have  been  intended 
for  a  series  of  volumes,  for  he  refers  to  "  My  first 

'*  Gibbon  once  meditated  a  life  of  Rawleigh, 
and  for  that  purpose  began  some  researches  in 
that  "  memorable  era  of  our  English  annab." 
After  reading  Oldys's  he  relinqubhed  his  design, 
from  a  conviction  that "  he  could  add  nothins  new 
to  the  subject,  except  the  uncertain  merit  o7st}ie 
and  sentiment." 


Volume  of  Tables  of  the  eminent  Persons  cele- 
brated by  English  Poets  " — to  another  of  "  Poetical 
Characteristics."  Among  those  manuscripts 
which  I  have  seen,  I  find  one  mentioned,  ap- 
parently of  a  wide  circuit,  under  the  reference  of 
**  My  Biographical  Institutions.  Part  third  ;  con- 
taining a  Catalogue  of  all  the  English  Lives,  with 
hbtorical  and  critical  Observations  on  them." 
But  will  our  curious  or  our  whimsical  collectors 
of  the  present  day  endure,  without  impatience, 
the  loss  of  a  quarto  manuscript,  which  bears  this 
rich  condiment  for  its  title — "  Of  London  Libraries ; 
with  Anecdotes  of  Collectors  of  Books ;  Remarks 
on  Booksellers;  and  on  the  first  Publishers  of 
Catalogues?"  Oldys  left  ample  annotations  on 
"  Fuller's  Worthies,"  and  "  Winstanlcy's  Lives  of 
the  Poets,"  and  on  "  Langbaine's  Dramatic 
Poets."  The  late  Mr.  Boswell  showed  me  a  FulUr 
in  the  Malone  collection,  with  Stcevens's  transcrip- 
tion of  OtUys's  notttf  which  Malone  purchased  for 
43/.  at  Stecvens's  sale ;  but  where  is  the  original 
copy  of  Oldys?  The  "  WinsUnley,"  I  think, 
also  reposes  m  the  same  collection,  which,  let  ns 
hope,  is  well  preserved.  The  "  Langbaine  "  b 
far-famed,  and  is  preserved  in  the  British  Museum, 
the  gift  of  Dr.  Birch ;  it  has  been  considered  so 
precious,  that  se^'eral  of  our  eminent  writers  have 
cheerfully  passed  through  the  labour  of  a  minute 
transcription  of  its  numberiess  notes.  In  the 
history  of  the  fate  and  fortune  of  books,  that  of 
Oldys'.'-  langbaine  b  too  curious  to  omit.  Oldyi 
may  telt  nis  own  story,  which  I  find  in  the  Museum 
copXf  P'  33^1  And  which  copy  appears  to  l>e  a 
second  attempt;  for  of  the  Jrst  Langbaine  we 
have  thb  account : 

"When  I  left  London,  in  1734,  to  reside  in 
rorkshire,  I  left  in  the  care  of  the  Rev.  Mr.  Bur- 
ridge's  family,  with  whom  I  had  several  years 
lodged,  among  many  other  books,  goods,  &c.,  a 
copy  of  this  Langbaine,  in  which  I  had  written 
several  notes  and  references  to  further  knowledge 
of  these  poets.  When  I  returned  to  London,  1730, 
I  understood  my  books  had  been  dinpcrsed  ;  and 
afterwards  becoming  acquainted  with  Mr.  T. 
Coxeter,  I  found  that  he  had  bought  my  Lang- 
baine of  a  bookseller  who  was  a  grcut  collector  of 
*plays  and  poetical  books  :  this  must  have  been  of 
service  to  him,  and  he  has  kept  it  so  carefully 
from  my  sight,  that  I  never  could  have  the  oppor- 
tunity of  transcribing  into  this  I  am  now  writing 
in,  the  Notes  I  had  collected  in  that."* 

*  At  the  Bodleian  Library,  I  learn  by  a  letter 
with  which  I  am  favoured  by  the  Rev.  Dr.  Bliss, 
that  there  is  an  interleaved  '*  Gibbon's  Lives  and 
Characters  of  the  Dramatic  Poets,"  with  correc- 
tions, which  once  belonged  to  Coxeter,  who  ap- 
pears to  have  intended  a  new  edition.  Whether 
Coxeter  transcribed  into  his  Gibbon  the  notes  of 
Oldys's/ri/  Langbaine,  b  worth  inquiry.  Coxeter's 
conduct,  though  he  had  purchased  Oldys's  first 
Langbaine,  was  that  of  an  ungenerous  miser,  who 
will  quarrel  with  a  brother,  rather  than  share  in 
any  acquisition  he  can  get  into  his  own  hands. 
To  Coxeter  we  also  owe  much;  he  suggested 
Dodslev's  Collection  of  Old  Plays,  and  the  first 
tolerable  edition  of  Massinger. 

There  is  a  remarkable  word  in  Oldys's  note 
above.     He  could  not  have  been  employed  In 


a  O 


LIFE  ASD  HABITS  OF  A  LITKRASr 


Tbiifril  L^ngb^nc,  aith  >dtliljani  by  CcaetcT, 

^Uu  Cibbcr :  nn  tbc  itrcnEtb  of  thsc  nois, 

"  Lira  of  oui  Poeei,"  which  »pp«icd  in  wrtUy 

MtRf  hy  Sbleli.  (n  •nunucnni  of  Dr.  Johnion. 
Shicit  fau  been  lectDtljr  cistigitcd  by  Mr.  Gir- 

Tbae  literary  }obbcn  nowbcrc  dhtingulib 
Coxeter't  tvA  Olily*'*  curioiu  matttr  fitim  Iheir 
own.  Sncb  wu  Ihe  fate  of  rite  firit  copy  of 
Lughainc,  with  Of^yi'i  nUri  i  bul  the  Kiiriit  is 
IDDR  impDrtiat.  At  id  luctioo  of  •omc  of 
OLDta'B  bnob  and  muiiiacTipti,  of  wbLcb  I  Hatc 
KCD  a  priDted  catilosuc.  Dr.  Birch  puTcbuCEl 
Ibli  innliiibk  copy  liir  three  ihiUiDBi  ind  lia- 
pcnce.*  Such  wa  the  rilue  ilticbcj  to  Ibex 
otigiiul  naun^ha  coaceiniBB  our  poets,  irA 
wiMch,  to  obtjiD  only  t  tnnvnpl,  vrry  luve 
tarm  bave  libce  been  cbeerfuily  i^t'en.  Thn, ' 
whkh  IS  B0«  the  KuKum  copy,  u  in  Oldyi'i 
luBdwiiling:,   Bol  InlerLeATed,   but  orerflomng ' 


il-he, 

Oldis.  in 

"K,",;! 

SCliU 

•ss 

gi^  let  Ih.™ 

bBlor,-   o 

""  ^^ 

the 

ehaiEe' 

•nd  the  fite 

lU  hh 


Uldyil  life.  If  hi  leally 
r,  Uf  deputed  in  fudden  hute, 
'"■■-  -  ■--  lodginpi 


forilnrei  of  old  boot* 

occiuicd  lo  oie,  thil  (or  Tartihnt  we  must  under- 
(tand  Ibe  Phi.   There  ve  know  he  trnj  bul 

en  hl>  letum  to  liii  lodgjngi,  ihiC  he  found  be 
hid  tat  eretjihin;;  which  be  bad  Left  Ibere. 

Bbbnp  of  Dromote,  irba  vilh  bii  own   band 

copy  of  Langbaine,  diiided  iato  four  volumo. 


modem  lileraty  history,  it  may.  perhaps,  be  jualLir 
Buspccled  that  OLDn,  Id  the  delieht  of  perpetual 
acquiiiiioD,  impeded  the  hapfwrlabour  of  unity 
of  dcsiim  and  completeiben  of  porposc.    Hetiaa 

»meHtnei  cbilled  by  nwlect,  and  by  "  vaoit;' 
and  Tciation  of  sjHnt,"  etfe  ^ve  ihould  not  now 

In    Kippis"!    Biographia   Brilionica,  we   find 

whofc  punuJti,  bov^i-er,  were  in  no  maimer 
analogoiu  to  hi»,  and  whom  he  could  ooly  hare 

death  of  OLDVt,  Dr.'  Kipirii.  editor  of  Ihe  Bio- 
gnphia  Britaonin,  looked  orer  these  ftaahuvcripa 
at  Mr.  Tai  lot^  bODae.  He  hid  been  directed  la 
thil  dlvov-eiy  by  the  late  Bishop  of  DtumuTe, 
wboe  aclin  «ai  wn  tciv  remaAaUc  In  ereiy 
enlerpTiv  ro  euLaTge  our  htcrary  hotory.    kippn 

"""  "-■ '  who,  in  lome  degree,  i---*-"  *■ " 

I.-..  K.-^  riiuej  hu 
and  negoliatii 
iprehendcd   lb(  ... 

graphia  found  Oldvi*!  MiKL'tcfurti  an  easy 
purchaae  fin-  bii  employer,  the  la(e  Mr- Cadt-ll  j 
and  Ihe  twenly  guineas,  perham,  >encd  lo  bury 
IhcitwriHTl  Mr.  Taylor  lavs,'- The  manuscripts 
ofOiBvsweie  nolao  many  at  might  be  eipccled 

cbiefly  of  ihort  eitnca  from  booka,  and  minutes 

the[>«lor.    I  remember  the  minuicripta  velli 

tnglnai  tn&wltdgf  than  some  octavos,  fa^inncd 


iCcupy  m 


igned,  by  Mr.  Cadel^  lo 


ANTIQUARY— OLDTS  AND  HIS  MSS. 


563 


son  ;  and  that  the  successor  of  Dr.  Kippis  had  been 
the  late  Dr.  George  Gregory.  Again  I  repeat, 
the  history  of  voluminous  works  is  a  melancholy 
oflice ;  every  one  concerned  with  them  no  longer 
cm  be  found!  The  esteemed  relict  of  Doctor 
Gregory,  with  a  fricndlv  promptitude,  gratified  my 
anxious  inquiries,  ana  informed  me,  that  "She 
perfectly  recollects  a  mass  of  papers,  such  as  I 
described,  being  returned,  on  the  death  of 
Dr.  Gregory,  to  the  house  of  Wilkie  and  Robin- 
son, in  the  early  part  of  the  year  1809."  I  applied 
to  this  hou9e,  who,  after  some  time,  referred 
mc  to  Mr.  John  Robinson,  the  representative 
of  his  lite  father,  and  with  whom  all  the 
papers  of  the  former  partnership  were  deposited. 
But  Mr.  John  Robinson  has  terminated  my  in- 
quiries, by  his  civility  in  promising  to  comply 
with  then),  and  his  pertinacity  in  not  doing  so. 
He  may  have  injured  his  own  interest  in  not 
trading  with  my  curiosity.*  It  was  fortunate  for 
the  nation,  th.it  George  Vertue's  mass  of  manu- 
scripts escaped  the  fate  of  Oldys's ;  had  the  pos- 
se«or  proved  as  indolent,  Horace  Walpole  would 
not  hive  been  the  writer  of  his  most  valuable 
work,  and  we  should  ha%'e  lost  the  "  Anecdotes 
of  Painting,"  of  which  Vertue  bad  collected  the 
materials. 

Of  a  life  consumed  in  such  literary  activity  we 
«houkI  have  known  more  had  the  DiarUs  of  Oldvs 
escaped  destruction.  "  One  habit  of  my  father's 
old  friend,  William  Oloys,"  says  Mr.  Taylor, 
*'  was  that  of  keeping  a  diaiy,  ana  recording  in  it 
every  diy  all  the  events  that  occurred,  and  all  his 
engagements,  and  the  employment  of  his  time.  I 
have  seen  piles  of  these  books,  but  know  not 
what  became  of  them."  The  existence  of  such 
diaries  is  confirmed  by  a  sale  citaloguc  of  Thomas 
Davies,  the  literary  bookseller,  who  sold  many  of 
the  books  and  $9m«  manuscripts  «tf  OUySt  which 
appear  to  have  been  dispersed  in  various  libraries. 
I  Imd  Lot  "3637,  Mr.  Oldys's  Diary,  containing 
several  observations  relating  to  books,  characters, 
&c. ;"  a  single  volume,  which  appears  to  have 
separated  from  the  "piles"  which  Mr.  Taylor 
once  witnessed.  The  literary  diary  of  Oldys  would 
have  exhibited  the  mode  of  his  pursuits,  and  the 
results  of  his  discoveries.  One  of  these  volumes  I 
have  fortunately  discovered,  and  a  singularity  in 
this  writer's  feelings  throws  a  new  Interest  over 
such  diurnal  records.  Oldys  was  apt  to  give 
utterance  with  his  pen  to  his  most  secret  emotions. 
Querulous  or  mdignant,  his  honest  simplicity  con- 
fided to  the  paper  before  him  such  extemporaneous 
soliloquies,  and  I  have  found  him  hiding  in  the 
very  comers  of  his  manuscripts  his  "secret  sor- 
rows." 

*  I  know  that  not  only  this  lot  of  Oldys's  manu' 
scripts,  but  a  great  quantity  of  original  eontribu^ 
tions  of  whole  lives,  intenoed  for  the  BiogrM>hia 
Britannica,  must  lie  together,  unless  they  have 
been  destroyed  as  waste-paper.  These  biographical 
and  literary  curiosities  were  often  supplied  by  the 
families  or  friends  of  eminent  persons.  Some 
may,  perhaps,  have  been  reclaimed  by  their 
owners.  I  am  informed  there  was  among  them 
an  interesting  collection  of  the  correspondence 
of  Locke;  and  I  could  mention  several  lives 
which  were  prepared. 


A  few  of  these  sUght  memorials  of  his  feelings 
will  exhibit  a  sort  of  Silhouttte  likeness  traced  by 
his  own  hand,  when  at  times  the  petuive  man 
seems  to  have  contemplated  on  his  own  shadow. 
Oldvs  would  throw  down  in  verses,  whose  hu- 
mility or  qiuintness  indicates  their  origin,  or  by 
some  pithy  adage,  or  apt  quotation,  or  recording 
anecdote,  his  self-advice,  or  his  self-regrets ! 

Oppressed  by  a  sense  of  tasks  so  unprofitable  to 
himself,  while  his  da>-s  were  often  passed  in  trouble 
and  In  prison  ;  he  breathes  a  self-reproach  in  one 
of  these  profound  reflections  of  melancholy  which 
so  often  startle  the  man  of  study,  who  truly  dis- 
covers that  life  is  too  limited  to  acquire  real 
knowledge,  with  the  ambition  of  dispensing  it  to 
the  world. 

"I  say,  who  too  long  in  these  cobwebs  lurks, 
Is  always  whetting  tools,  but  never  works." 

In  one  of  the  comers  of  his  note-books  I  find 
this  curious  but  sad  reflection  : — 

**  Alas  1  this  is  but  the  apron  of  a  fig-leaf— -but  the 
curtain  of  a  cobweb." 

Sometimes  he  seems  to  have  anticipated  the  fate 
of  that  obscure  diligence,  which  was  pursuing  dis- 
coveries re8cr\'ed  for  others  to  use. 

"He  heapeth  up  riches,  and  knoweth  not  who 
shall  gather  them." 

"  Fond  treasurer  of  these  stores,  behold  thy  fate 
In  Psalm  the  thirty-ninth,  6,  7,  and  8." 

Sometimes  he  checks  the  eager  ardour  of  his  pen, 
and  reminds  himself  of  its  repose,  in  Latin,  Italian, 
and  English. 

-Non  vi,  sed  satpe  cidendo. 
Ass.-ii  presto  si  fa  quel  che  si  fa  bene. 

"  Some  respite  best  recovers  what  we  need. 
Discreetly  baiting  gives  the  journey  speed." 

There  was  a  thoughtless  kindness  in  honest 
Oldys;  and  his  simplicity  of  character,  as  I  have 
observed,  was  practised  on  by  the  artfiU  or  the  un- 
generous. We  regret  to  find  the  following  entry 
concerning  the  famous  collector,  James  West. 

"  I  gave  above  threescore  letters  of  Dr.  Davenant 
to  his  son,  who  was  eniroy  at  Frankfort  in  1703  to 
1708,  to  Mr.  James  West,*  with  one  hundrcid  and 
fifty  more,  about  Christmas,  1746 ;  but  the  same 
fate  they  found  as  grain  that  is  sowed  in  barren 
ground." 

Such  Is  the  plaintive  record  by  which  Oldys 
relieved  hinuelf  of  .a  groan !  We  may  sxaile  at 
the  simplicity  of  the  following  namtiTe,  where 
poor  Oldys  received  manuscripts  in  lieu  of 
money  I 

"  Old  Counsellor  Pane,  of  Colchester,  who,  in 
formd  pauperis,  deceived  me  of  a  good  sum  of 
money  which  he  owed  me,  and  not  fong  after  set 
up  his  chariot,  gave  me  a  parcel  of  manuscripts, 
and  promised  me  others,  which  he  never  gave  me, 

*This  collection,  and  probably  the  other  letters, 
have  come  down  to  us,  no  doubt,  with  the  manu- 
scripts of  this  collector,  purchased  for  the  Britidi 
Museum.  The  correq>ondence  of  Dr.  Davenant, 
the  political  writer,  with  his  son,  the  envoy,  turns 
on  one  perpetual  topic,  his  son's  and  his  own  ad- 
vancement in  the  state. 


LIFE  ASD  BABITa  OF  A  LrTERARY 


copy  of  lUDdolpb'i 


*''j  lent  the  tnulcil  livci  ind  dutlu  of  Ihe  fimous 
phUO^Wuil  anil  DansiktTt  4t'^  LoiHlon»  l6i>»  bv 

wbco  be  WB  wntin^  bv  VtraX  KntDryp  lod  hf^ 

qulflto  commonpLjicn  of  cur  old  English  dn- 

foundcd   with  onJinaiy  ones   Oldyi  not  only 

iDtrDductkm»  wUh  ■  knawlH}^  »nd  Idie  of  the 
nibjecl  which  none  hiil  himKlfpos^mcd.    But  v 

Uon,  uhI  n  ■  cnrner  of  one  of  the  mu^nt  of  tail 
Laoghiiiu,  ucidcDEdlj'  juftjaiiing  ui  ntraofdi- 
■uy  drcunuunce  iitciMhig  thli  curioui  diinrru- 
tioiD.  OLDn  bJiing  cnmpletcil  Thii  rlibonlc 
IntrodtKtioii,  **  (he  pcnuFloiu  pubUshcr  ko^netlDn 
luf iag  ODt  OIK  thifrL  p-irt,  which  bippened  to  be 


DDiUI  the  ColLediaiu of  EnglBli  Poetrrj  for.  in  i 
copy  which  wu  Eormcrly  Old)'*'!,  ind  Afterward 
Tvomu  War1oo*h  ncid  now  my  iDtelli«nt  fnenr 
Itfr,  DodCC*!,  be  bal  erpr^BCd  hinurlf  Ihw  : — "li 


Uf  or  two  ih«l<  [  but  tbc)'  lor  lo 
n  Cvnphell  /■  t*«lt  i$  «nJ  cran 


rUfi"!  aiUtrf  tf  llu  SItfl,  ani  AOrrl  li 

ihiU  AppeTj  ■  iruire  perfi 
mtmi  u  ilh  nunj^mLlargntHi 


id  cunoiu  ulent   had  lought  tbc  public 

hu  evaped  dorruction,  I  tnuchbe  tome  ihttresl- 
ingpiBlgn  Md  vrrbum. 

The  Teider  ii  here  prevnted  with  t  minale 
piclun  of  thoie  inviuble  ocrupatioru  which  pu« 


Cilleelic 

iniLetl 

s^pSy-rffis 

CollHIJan'h^ 

S^.'SSK-;;.' 

of  tbii  buv  puWither.  be 

DM  avoid  nmking.  In  one 
ntendedwortDBlGcaace. 

orhiiiu 

n»lB.trLe.,.n 

m  s«  oToidirt'i  literuj 
'■  I  WB  Informed  Ihii  dat  by  Mr.  Tbo.  Odetl'i 

^.: K^o(lhcplayJ,dicdl4»IiJ,  l)4*lt 

Ch»ppel-BIWt,Weitminiler.a^  (8 
yean.    He  wu  wiititig  t  hiMDry  of  the  cuncten 


ble  inuiguei,  adtenturet,  tayinp.  ttorter,  wrii- 

uthon,  pla)-en,  bookaeUers  Ire,  who  Haundied 
ipecially  in   (be  pnsenE  centuiy.     Had  been  a 

TH  forced  to  live  Teterved  and  retired  bv  rvann 


"  Q.  ol  hi)  di.  to  rettore  me  EuKace  BudgellS 
"  Ht'i-e  got  t&  one.  and  leen  the  other. 


"  Saw  nothing  of  the  biitofvorbiicDnTenaiiDnfl 
with  ingemom  tiKnj   hii  charaeten,  tales,  ;cicip 


ANTIQUARY— OLDYS  AXD  BIS  MSB. 


K™. 

She  ihinki 

7nTX",i 

M,l 

™ 

■cba,  IhU  w 

M^, 

™'h" 

JJf" 

X 

l;ft. 

our  vexitio 

c  Ihw  of  « 


iicir  ti 


ihguM  be  ibk  10  hiTC  given  Ihc 
Shakcipeve.  Mr,  JobA  Tlylot  Li 
"  Oldn  bad  contracted  to  tiipply 
■lie  ol  ShakcuciK  unktntim  It 
wiih  one  WajW,  >  boaliKllCT 
and  n  0]d)i  did  not  Hve  u  rolfil  the  enme- 

Iwen^  gulneu  wbkh  be  bad  advanced  on  tbe 
wgrk.'*  Tbil  inlcmtjng  Darrative  ii  tiow  hope- 
I,  by  the  lolemn   contract   Into 


which 


might  1 1 


:t  tha 


Bd«?rd'^PIiKi'< 
Nonhimpiomh  ite 

ondumbook.    U 


any  other  character  of  our  oJd  pDCta  Ihaa  tbwe  ol 
apewter  and  Sbakc»peire  ;*  and  lo  fpet  tbe  bbcrty 


on  which  h«l  be 
ed  by  hii  friend  < 
Cul,  though  the  I 


mpHin,  the  poet  of  " 


"  l>'tJrii't  4rntm  at  Lord  Rireter^,  at  Burleigh 
while  be  waj  tramlating  Vir^L»  as  signior  Vvtuo 

■    igned  tor  his  life." 


iddii  "  UtierCt  either  the  J»av  prophetic  leaff  or 
llnqncittoiubly  we  have  incurred  i  great  loss  an 


nipect  thai  miay  of  OIJji'i  numu itri fii  are  in 

qiuinted  wilh  bu  handwriting  which  may  be 

*'  To  teaich  the  old  papcn  in  on^  of  mj^  large 
deal  boaei  for  Diydcn'i  letter  of  Ihinkt  la  my 

SvD.  i68j.    II  n  copied  in  llit  jtllrw  ttok  far 
Onriln'' ^i/<,  in  which  there  are  ahnul  150  Iran- 


I  have  now,  154*,  enleied  belunn  joo  and  4a 
iniclei,  bewlet  remaikt,  &c.  Now,  in  June,  1748 
lietweenaoo  and  jooarticles-  Kow,  in  Octobei 
1750,  lix  hundred  aiHithiny<slic."t 

•  M>lane'i  Life  ot  Dr>den,  p.  4». 

La  praiKthe  Kn-ke  which  they  derived  Irom  it 
It  paned  from  Dr.  Berkenhout  to  Cvome  SIcevcns 

ID  it  I  The  antiquary  Gougb  alludci  to  it  Mllh  hi 
Luual  dttcernmcnt.  *'  Amongtboe  lillei  of  book. 
lad  pain|ibleta  about  Londnfi  are  many  fttftlj 
under  the  head  of  topography  and  hijlnij."  Thua 
the  detigaol  Olpti  la  romping  thu  elaborate  col- 


566 


UFE  A2fD  HABITS  OF  A  LITESAST  ASTIQUAMT. 


ahovl   tbit    Pope    gnatlr  irpnied  <nr  li 

ti  tbcl^lTnuiB  of 'ibc  Biri  at  Oiliri,  ind  h^ 
uKd  lo  tell  a  itary  of  cbc  credit  which  be  obtihied 
B  ft  icholar,  by  Ktting  POPft  right  in  ■  LjUr 

did  BM,  howerer,  n  I  remember,  bomt  o(  bating 

been  idmiHEd  u  ft  gnat »  the  tible,  but  u  hip- 

*  ig  to  be  io  the  mora.'    Wbr  mi^  hM 


npfoM  th«i  Ou>H  wood  imo 
1%e  truth  if,  there  ftppein  to  hj 
fidentid  intercoone  betvecn  Pi 


unl,  wUcb  he  iMt, "  Mr.  Fon  lohl  me  ■ 
Bail  or  Oifard'i  tihlel"  And  faitber  nil 
coDTeMtton wbkh p—edbwoeen them,  i 
(hit  fttl  i  (de  IB  OLDn*!  Luwbaine  be  pot  i 
Ihii  meoKinDdnni  in  the  uride  tA  SMapi 


r.  Pope*!  toe  out  of  Cowler*!  preface/'    h 
z  Apnti  to  hft*e  diacDrered  thii  obxrvfttt 


■r  the  old  withered  bnnchr 


"Iba  tcrr  unwunnuble  ideii  Oldti 
pcnon  who  HiEeiMed  lofDn  thoinguli 
fie  punucd  in  hU  e^tian  of  Shake^ieare,' 


fedioii,  H  condemned  bj"  trying  it  hi  the  limiied 
otjcct  of  the  topograpbei'j  1  iew,    Thiinulogoe 

ncn,  domestic  innila,  ereaH,  and  pmont  con- 


hlghly  be  c 


>o«ed  by  Oat  gml  bird  \    Tbz 

,  bol  our  yaa  idoptin^  ba  ni 

highly  be  esteemed  hii  judgment  ^  uut  unqui 
tkHuEily  ran  hid  often  been  dcllghlcd  by  Oi.n' 
with  the  biitory  of  bn  pmkceaon,  ud  the  imii 
olliei  of  EnglHh  poeti)'. 

I  hare  now  inlmduced  the  reader  to  Oldyi  i 
ting  imidit  hli  •■  poetical  baji,"  hii  "  parcbme 
Wopipbiol  bodgeo,*-  hb  •'  caiaLoguea,"  and  I 
"  diulca,-  often  reoliBg  l  aolilary  ernan,  or  ««■ 

thamodigy  of  litemry  ctirioaitj-f 

cmtinaa  to  be  of  an  ambiguous  nature,  referred 
tOt  quoted,  and  tranacribed;   we  cannot  ahraii 


Tibody  Ml  multiplied  inquim,  and  i 
jta  LiKU,^^  labour  i-oid  o'f  lab 


imet  with  that  of  the  piecedliu,  he  will  hold  It 
lit  hand  the  chain  of  human  llwughls  audi  liki 
>nolhetDA<u,beeaiDeIbehutotiiBof  the  humai 


>»f, 


INDEX. 


Addoolah,  go%'ernor  of  Kborassan,  i8 

AbcUrd  and  Eloisa,  54 ;  unjust  condemnation  of 
Abclard,  5^  ;  legends  respecting,  ib. 

Abhorrers,  nickname  of,  411 

Abraham,  Jewish  legend  of,  47 

Abram  man,  the  impostor,  293  n. 

Abridgcrs  of  literature,  historical  notices  of,  148 ; 
judgment  required  by,  149 

Absent  man,  the,  77 

Atyttraction  of  mind,  anecdotes  of,  197 

Abuse,  proficients  in  the  art  of,  116 

Academies,  formation  of,  339;  ridiculous  titles 
assumed  by  the  Italians,  355  ;  literary  societies 
which  first  appeared  at  Rome,  357  ;  first  dis- 
tinguished by  the  simple  names  of  their  foun- 
ders, 358 

Acajou  and  SUrphile,  291 ;  a  literary  curiosity,  and 
one  of  the  most  whimsical  of  fairy  tales,  ih. 

Accademia,  the  school  of  painting  at  Bologna, 
originated  from  Ludovico  Caracci,  325 

Accident, — poets,  philosophers,  and  artists  made 
by,  32 

Accorso,  the  great  lawyer,  38 

Acephali,  application  of  the  term,  448 

Achcm,  titles  of  the  king  of,  67 

Aches,  misunderstanding  of  the  word,  30 

Acrostics,  literary  folly  of,  no 

Actors  who  have  fallen  martys  to  their  tragic 
characters,  94 

"  Adagia  "  of  Erasmus,  396 

Addison,  deficient  in  conversation,  40 

Adelaide,  queen  of  Italy,  dethronement  of,  68 

Adrian! ,  the  Italian  historian,  445 

Agobart,  works  of,  discovered,  8 

Agreda,  Maria,  a  religious  visionary,  137 

Agricola,  character  of,  by  Tacitus,  16 

Alaric,  funeral  honours  paid  to,  74 

Alberico,  his  "  Visions  "  the  source  of  Dante's 
Inferno,  334 

Albcrtus  Magnus,  the  pretended  magician,  481, 48a 

Alchemifts  of  past  ages,  482 

Alchymy,  infatuation  of,  106;  its  votaries,  106, 
X07  ;  statute  against,  107  ;  ancient  works  on,  ib. ; 
chemistry  of  modem  times  predicting  the  golden 
visions  of,  108 

Alcyonius,  Petmt,  literary  fraud  of,  8 


Aldrovandus  his  pm'erty  and  death,  12 

Aldus  Manutius,  privilege  of  printing  granted  to, 

29;  inventor  of  the  Aldinc  or  italic  letter,  ib. 
Alexandria,  the  vast  librar>-  of,  i ;  its  destruction, 

17,18 
Alphonsus  VI.,  curious  anecdote  of,  18 
Amadei  and  Uberti,  feud  between   the  families, 

401 
Ammianus  Marcellinus,  works  of,  partly  lost,  21 
Amphigourie,  the  French  name  of  nonsense  verses, 

112 
Amusements  of  the  learned,  14 
Anagram,  an  artificial  contrivance  for  the  expres- 
sion of  suppressed  opinion,  435 
Anagrams,  whimsical  invention  of,  in 
Anagrams  and  echo  verses,  261 
"  Anatomy  of  the  Mass,"  its  curious  errata,  30 
Anaxagoras,  punishment  of,  10 
Ancestors,  their  different  modes  of  life,  253 
Ancient  authors,  loss  of,  7 
Ancients  and  modems,  controversies  respecting 

the,  27 
Ancillon,  a  great  collector  of  curious  books,  4 
Andre,  Father,  the  jocular  preacher,  96 
Anecdotes  of  Fa«bions,  189 
Angelo,  Michael,  38;    Scderini's   critique  on  a 

statue  of,  50 
Angelo  Politian,  historical  and  literary  notices  of, 

171 
Anpels,  scholastic  disqui^illoni  on,  23 
Animal  spirits,  physiological  definition  of  the,  {6 
Animals,  influenced  by  music,  102,  103 
Anne  of  Bourbon,  a  patroness  of  Port-Koyal,  36 
Anne  BuUen,  historical  incident  of,  17a 
Annius,  of  Viterbo,  a  literary  impostor,  51 ;  his 

pretended  collection  of  historians,  489 
Anti,  its  frequent  use  in  literary  controversy,  119 
Antiquaries,  blunders  of,  on  sepulchral  monuments, 

122 

,  Society  of,  establishment  of  the,  330 

Antonio,  Kin^  of  Portugal,  dethronement  of,  68 

Apuleius,  an  mgenious  thought  of,  27 

Aquinas,  Thomas,  the  scholastic  divine,  23 ;  his 

disquisitions  on  angels,  23,  24 
Arabians  learning  and  genius  of  the,  22 
Arabic  chronicle  of  Jerusalem,  from  the  time  of 

Mahomet,  7a 
Arcadians,  of  Italy,  356 


,68                                        ryDEx.                                            1 

BUei,  Peter,  the  wriOng^inHtcr,  441 1  hH  aOpa- 

Ardn,  cnricnu  cutorn  ot  t^"e^7?  ••-  ** 

plilc  coolau.  441 
«&«,  uniiKinenK  of, ., ;  hteiDT  PeptitMhm  tl. 

Amino',  life  of  Dmw,  s'a 

s:si 

Arto«o.  poverty  ot,i. 

Btpli^i  Porti,  the   e;iilv  diletUDte,  4S4  [   eon- 

AiiDKo   «h1    Tun,   liin«r    noDca   ol,     144, 

I4S 

leo<U>d  mi*k.  Ih. 

JuUuitk,idvaieciitKaauoa,9;  pcneeutkin  of. 

Birbiet,  the  Pnnch  wii.  mi 

,  LouB,  biiKvl  lorti.ne,  179 

Bnhon,  biihcp  0?  tl^nio,  hii  pubbotloa  of  ■ 

IB  1  (lie  of  bb  Ubnrv, » ;  iigc  fut  Ibc  itii.lv  nf. 

u,  u  1  hU  Dcniuf  nil  dmrtuiiiiin.  aj ;  pinl- 
Idnl  wilh  Bmd,  (4  i  1  eoBtot  between,  ih. 

Anuuia,in  nocule  of  pDn-Ro)nl,30i   nncoat 

141  wife  of,. 14 

■real  leaminb  iST 
AfiK-n.  title  rfthetlo|g  of.  *J 

Bimird,  Dr.,  on  the  life  of  Hivlin,  457 

Bi.iin,.hemBic.cio.,« 

BwhiiH,  Ciifor,  u  iiilhor  who  ruined  hi)  book- 

•cllcr.JJS 

AK.tbegulJeof,  I] 

Atthn  in'<le  by  Mccideni,  31 

BltllcT,  Iklx  lepon.  napcitins.  340 

AnMnjrTiaseotthe,  191 

B».ter,  Richurd,  his  llli-nt.  diligence.  >»;  hH 

AKh.n,.  Koger,  Drinid  of  bi>  treHiK-.be  "  Schol- 

B>)Le,  Pletie.  the crkbnted revkwei.  J  1  hii  eriU- 
cil  Kviewi,  6i  liieriry  blander  o(,   ill:  bit 

hi.  death,  ib.  i  Mtices  of  bi>  -  CrihuJ  Diclion. 

lr^■,••    ]i9i    the    Elinkapeue    o(   DicHourjr 

Afttn.  Ihe,  l«g 

wiilm.]!!  1  in  lulhur  coRinwn  to  HI  Bunn, 
■h.;  hit  chincteri«ln,  xK;  ha  diirr,  jm  hli 

Aitroloi^',  belief  Id,  loj  I  incidotn  of,  lb.;  ulncia 

"  PenMi  lur  la  Comite,"  JUJ  hH'"  Crritlqw! 

I«0 

genome  de  l'Hi>toin1  du  Olvintm.."  ib.;  Ibc 

luH  for   llterjTv  hi>toi>-  owing  to,  ib.;    hii 

Alhenlim,  fiUe  poliliciil  repoiu  respecting  Iheir 

"  Kcponn  aui  (Jue>itnni  d'un  Ptoviniul,"  ih.  1 

dcle^,  141 

I  ptrtect  DHxlel  of  the  kjJ  lileraiy  chuKIn, 

men,  161  workiof.pjnlsW.ji 
Atlib,  (uneni  honoun  f»«\  to,  74 

Bc>i<h  ind  mouiUchei,  f»hian  of,  Bi,  Sj 

Anhrei-,   John,   letler   lo,   fMi    bn  "pmoilKd 

ide.,"  lb. 

BedUim  bejsin,  account  of,  »i  s  wng  of,  tat 

Aodley,  th«  HWTer,  13*  JJS  j  hli  ehmcter  >i.d 

het'-llower,  the,  «] 

pr»crieB..,M 

"  Bcnei-oleitca  "  of  ChATln  t.,  4J 1 

Aului  Celliui,  idierK  criOchm  on,  le 

k:;t?s,'S3»1'.'„u«..„. 

6t 

Anthen,  ponniu  of.  iji  not  ailDved  10  i^ue 

b-tghi'in,  hii  wife  a  perfect  .hrcw,  1 11 

lunws  14;  how  tn^ed  li>-  pjtnjns  jr,  jijI     pteicmd,  11                                                           1 

litmty  impwlioiu  of,  p> ;  tiuimb  of.  j, ,  Klf- 

Bdblem  Hotpital.  origin  and  hiriorr  of,  191 

eiulutioii  of,  114!  anagc  iavtMxm  of,  ii;i 

Be.lert..n,lhelfaBic«lor,94 

of.   tsj;   condumned,  jSg;   who  hive  ruined 

Ihcir  bookKllcn,  374  cl  >eq.  j  on  the  choice  of. 

hibited  and  impro.wl.  ifli                  '       ' 

Authnn  und  Iwoki,  pnxljnuiioin  igjin«,  >s8. 

Bihlei,  Iheir   thcjpnm  and  inconecl  piintlng, 

Sif  i  ejrioo.  rim  edlilnm  of.  5)4.  jj  j 
BifiKipu«e...so.,  «plinMion  of,  joj;  .  lerni 

ineentedhyAhl^deljkive.ib. 

AuiOKT-pln.  it  of  judKinR  chiwcItT  from,  41* ; 

Bihllogtaphy,K:ienceof,S« 

BililiDnuDia.  the    puion  fur   collectini:    booki. 

Avi^  title  of  the  king  of,  t, 

1,4 

"  Bibliolhtime  BriHnniniie."6 

BUderdik,  Mr.  and  Hr>..  pn-mi  of,  114 

BtuOMiT,  RcpaMic  of,  1)6 

Bibllngnphi.-il  pjrallds,  u«e  for,  fTom  the  tune 

Buctain.  poeikiJ  Kpmentitlon  of,  184 

ofpmt-.ch.s.'3 

B«in,  Lord,  U  home.  4-Mi  on  hu  pablublng 

BlDgraphv,  anJent  work)  in,  lost,  11;   painted. 

.|.ph.l,ec<«.44T      .         , 

418  r  tentimcnul,  jio 
Bird.,  Jcwnh  legcn  Jt  oi;  41 

,  Roisr,  pcneculmnt  o(,  10 

Birol,  Abhc,  ludlnou.  mi.i.itc  of;  iio 

Bilisny.  Ihe  politic.l  oceDtiiWr,  J8J 

Blenhdm,  kcri  history  of  the  bulMing  of,  4it , 


DlinghTok«»  LaTdiiJtcnry  blunder  of,  ih 

ologni,   MOdrm)r  of  piiotlng  foupiled  by  the 

CinccittJiJ  et  Kq. 

LKuvenlun  dr  Perlen,  tnecttote  ol,  4^ 

and,  the  m^c  actor,  94 


wKeToni 


ImponiDI 


._^i'_»?-. 


3  of,  108 ;  Utenir  I 

Becd  ruined  bf  indxin,  jfi 

lourbon,  the  Toybl  Greek  profoKir  of  Pninci 

'OuitUloae,  tbc  jocular  preaeher,  97. 

o_yDC,  battle  of  the,  rarious  EiiK  reports  reipect 
ing  Ihe,  )40 


<a  of  faiElon  in,  ii ' 


,  Arthur,  diicoTcn  the  ^te  of  the  ancicut 

irulart,  the  Freneh  lUtamaa,  m  ' 

meiit,ij 
lucklngham,  Chaita  viUten,  Duke  of,  anecdote! 

Lord-ffcneral  or  Enolind,  jtae ;  bioonpfaicat  *n<l 
hiitoricil  notice!  of,  3e<>  ct  leq-iTate  of,  cou' 
tmted  with  Ihal  or  hi!  gnat  tira]  Ricbeliev,  and 
thnarcned  vilh  prognoitica  of  ■  fatal  termlU' 

dangera,  jii)  hli  odli  npedition,   ib.  i  ha 

hjf  extnrafEimt  dref»,  it6 ;  hii  poUUcaJ  coqaetry 
with  (he  Faiitau,  Jjo;  hi!  impeactament,  j4j 

Lufalml,  Frukceica  Tiuiik!,  local  deactiptkin!  or. 


'..  the  lulhoTof 
Jjg;  hii  eptluh,  jts 
loder^  Liic!  oTlbe  taint^  jt 


mart)Toloc     of     ejected 


Campbell,  Dr,  Angular   bli 

Camu!,  the  FRnch  ^yscian, 
Camuial,  bDolneUer  of  the  Pr 

Cardan,  pccuvd  of  migic. 


Lcci^  hiatoiy  of  Ihe  family,  jij 

eii,  OemcU),  Uletary  imialure  of,  ja 

Bded^-  " • 

^exicOQ  Htpa^fonoa,  1. 

Runiucnpti  dearroycd  by  fire,  11 
^Iherine  dc  Hedkii,  infatiuted  with  the  dreimi 

of  judicial  aitronamy,  504 
latholic  books,  deMructkin  of,  19 

'Athoiic*!  refutation,  a,  r jo 

4Jo.«'  rt„  rt.' 

Ueu,  50S  i  hit  melancholy  fate,  lb. 


Ceylon,  litlci  of  rhe  Una  or,  6j 

Chalmen,  Oeorge,  on  theoiigln  oFncuipapeti,  )l 

CTupeiain*!  nnfbnunaLe  epic,  r  ji 
"  Chapter  and  vene  "  men,  jjj 
Character!  dcicribcd  by  miwcal  ix>te4,  f  6,  s^ 

Charlea,  Doke  of  BiiTfUDdy,  bla  item  art  of  justice, 

Cbulei    T.   of  Riwiand   produce!   hii    "  Eikon 
laiilike  "  diululmpiitDnment,  ij  ^  poTetly  of 

roi^  of  alt,  ■9*1  Btd  isd  diiivned  by  Pddia- 


of  BackinEbam,  ADd  hb  ttiDpg  *ftfctkin  forbim 
111,  314  jTiii  pmfliiniiiiin.  fif  ;  Kent  tiiiton'; 

Ourks  D'l  bH  tnin  of  cbnaclcr,  46;   btcmr 
Mondn  ia  the  bile  ipidiHl  to,  iiii  ntiiicil 

formed  of  the  Low  Ooaatrict,  467 
Cturid  VU.of  Pnnce,  hB^parnty,  69 
duzloIX.  Df  PnibRt  tbcLutigiifff  of  the  Et.Bv- 

atbe  EMbh  coun  coldly  received,  4t>.  473  > 

IB  nriKnfile  deuta,  I  ^ 
_*ileilluul,  UI 
rhinTTT.  hH  **  Oaicmiiy  T>lc^"  37 ;  deficient  ra 

OiemiinT  of  tbe  audein  tiinei,  piDdoct  tt  the 

goLdeo  viwm  c^  the  aldiTnuib,  -— 
Cvdiire  prOTcib  on  mjrriige,  349 

C3ioTiaa'>  "  HiiURT  cJac  Woild,*  IIJ 

dudioek  TitchbouiDc,  ij8i  bi0| ■-■ 

119, 140;   lellei  wriRen  bj'. 

CUni,  aiiy  priDtiDg  Ini  18 


IhinceDlb  ccDItuy,  tS  i  receirei 
fmn  ibe  AnMatn,  >i 

CbroTufgraiD,  tiler^  follj  of,  1] 


f,  ib.  ;  puni  of,  16  ;  penoiul  char 


i  ot,  dury  of,  )jj ;  bii"HU- 


'«?:?' 


ce  of,  4t  J,  448 


UiioD,  MidUe„  the  PrcDcb 

lavicil  incieotj,  Ibeir  vrorka  dotioyed  b 
bi^nl  monkfl,  IS 

oproduce  tbem  JfnmHCuUic,  3] 


entry,  Gcoffcey  Laid  of,  compel)  bi 


CromwcU,  hi«OTiC4l  ipccalaliona  on,  338 

Cniudei,  Arabic  chronicle  of  the,  Ji 
Cutis,  Miry,  Shcnrtoae'ictuiicter  of.tu 


ISDEX. 

S7I 

of,  M  i  « I»i™i  of  Pnit-Roval.  36 

Dren  of  the  Middle  Age,  B4  j  of  a  lower 
S5:  caricature!  of.  ia     ' 

peri,,.l,S4, 

Dnu, uMcdoic  or.  i«si  oriiii.  or  hi>  - in(>™o." 

Drinking  ct»tam.  in  Bngltnd,  184 ;  di.l 

U]:lwo1>mol,fi9 

litcnry  tlun<l«  in,  110 

rem  kindi 

Dirwin,  Dr,  bautia  of  hii  poem,  laj 

D^et'hi..aieor,.nln..nave.^ 

Di>-«ianl,  «r  WiUiim,  hi>  poem  of  Gonaibcn, 

»;  i^f- 

D^d?l5i»,^iIIi'l*Kti»l  of.  46 

Itaviej,  M)  fo,  Wj"  Criticil  Hiitory  of  Pimi.l.lMi," 
11«^)9I  Uiapialou  on  IhculvinligLi  of  little 

Outer,  Albert,  fail  wile  a  .far™,  m.  la 
Du  Rurr,  tlie  Fnmch  poet,  povprti-  of, 
Dutch,  litem}'  nolica  of  the,  ijo 

Datb,  Book  of,  4|i;  *n«<lois  tH.^ft;  iitfliiRi 

■&£i^bSsAr  "•'""''"■ 

"  BtSLV  Engliih  Metrical  Romlnta,"  1 

S6 

Dedltwiom.  I.lcm]'  notice  of,  t.4,  ii,  j  pric. 

EbnSaad.  anecdote  of,  .i 

fOrtbcdediotkioofaplir,  116 

Echo  reno,  a6i,  a64 

Dee,  Dr.,  diMxnefy  ol  hii  UnguUr  his.,  9 
De  Poe,  bepn  bs  Rn  it*  wBilc  io  Briwn.  m. 
Dene,  Blc  limon,  ^ngcniou  dedicukn  by,  iij 
De'SrHiMLKnr)' hSu  ot  4«9 

"  Bcloga  <k  Clavii,"  110 

EJgat,  chatuICT  of,  in  "  Leat,"  >«} 

Eiln-atd  IV.,  chaiacter  of,9Sifai<volupli 
BdwanI  VI.,  diiryof.  1511  ptochmahn 

u-^hf..  Ih. 

Eiienmmaci,  Dt.,  Gennan  profeuor 

IennilnveDledb)',|oj 

largnage],4t 

D.Limim,iBc. 

a  political 

Demociltu!,  mio  enfioiu  of  fail  celcbtilf ,  9 

DcDUMIhens,  »dvet»e  eriticimi  on.  lo 

uring  her 

actet.oS, 

letter  toBalzu,  43 

■necdotea  of,  lasi  taught  (o  wriie 
AKhim,  ib.i  otigina] Tetter  of,  ijl 

hv  Koget 

;  her  i^r- 

De  Senes,  iiaA  of,  DB  the  An  of  nlilng  Sllk- 

Uament,  a4i  1  Utter  to,  inardin-  lie 
4361  MKlhi'itory  of  the  death  of 

pinpoKd 

womiMll 

Do  l^tiuins,  wit  >nd  mjieeof,  iij 

De«  Hiiiciui,  iiul  the  lemt  hUtory  of  Aolfaooy 

^nt  of  her  UM  mnb  about  her  luc 

proclamalioaor,  514 

•peeling,  9M.  ]SJi   biographical  ind   litmn- 

EtLiol.  tUt  John    the  Fiat  Engllih  pa 

noticn  of,  jSj,  )8{;  hU  corropondcn«:  will. 

!!} 

Delhioncd  monnrchj,  6» 

EujiUnd.  catiom  cuitomj  of  iSo.  190 
irfeofanobkBuaof,lb.i  drintTogc 

"Deril  indDr.  PioMui,"  o[ig.n  of  ifae  tradition. 

1^4.  *-i 

D'E*«a.  Sir  Symon*,  .ntcdote  of,  1J4,  >S4.  >6> 

Engliih  Academy  of  LlteratDtc,  3aft                         1 

Diimond  KiL  of  Charlo  1.,  1» 

DiancJ.  inoral,  hitlorical,  ind  crilieal,  IJi;  the 

lisi-ssatis™ 

.geof.»51 

Dlte,Eainbl!ng«itM> 
Dictinnvv  of  Treroui,  461 

r.-iptciliij!. 

DilapidatonoCioinwripthMt 

l>od-."ChorchHiHorv,-46j 

Leigh-a  treatiie  on  Reunion  and  Leatt 

Diodonu  Skuln.  hi>  worik  partly  lott.  ai 

INon  CbIu),  leproacfaful  criticbmg  on,  10 1  ic*rk< 

Etiquette  of  Ifae  gpHilih  coutt,  )3 

of.  partly  IM.11 

Evelyn,  litenity  wife  of,  iJJi   l.i.iitc 

loiwoiki  of,  partly  UrH,  11 
"  Diviiu  Commoiia"  of  Danle,  JJJ 

po^itioiH,   »|,    the    learned    autho 
Et-enti  wlDch  have  not  faappeocd.  In'to 

t   of    the 

Divination,  Ciceto'9  treatbe  on,  4J4 

■  of-  J3« 

Evtcmond,  Saint.  poRtalt  of,  delineate 

b)  him. 

b,1eryofGla,gow,,4 

Dow»i^,  the  P^tui,  fall  wfaoleule  dettnctlon  of 

Eiollc  flou'en  and  frntt^  introJ.iccr.  of 

Drakes  )ohn,  anccdole  of,  Ba 

Biprcslon  diffcienl  iioni  conoplion,  3 

Drama,  ongln  of  the,  iji  1  early  attempH  of  the, 

private  acting,  Iftt 

Dnmai,  Cilholic  ami  protcitani,  1)4 

B""«;«,''coX^n'ed""'4",r  "■• '" 

Facsimile,  e»planalion  of  the,  ai) 

Faction  a<  capricioui  a  fortune,  41 ' 

FjjHIir*.  Ihcir  ptrscculion  of  1 


'ihip,    cahom 

Pa(^mt  (atnily  of  tbc,  Ubcir  uciuDulabofk  of  titc- 
1  tkcicbo  of  BpoKT,  JouoD,  ud  Shiki- 
be  cArirpTinler,  >9;  pcnecutcd  Idrnppaacd 


VJlSS 


FcniTitki  of  Ihc  MiJdk  A^,  iij,  i;t 

Peudil  cn-donvi.  oti^s  uhI  hincHy  o(,  69 1  tbcii 

Fendal  ten  ilude,  eiain|ilc>  of.  7s 

nau.  Abbot  of.  feudal  cuiiom  eucUd  by,  7a 

Fine  aiti.  loe  of  Cbirlo  I.  Tor  the,  tn 


FlATlgn)',  lilcnry  jumdole  of,  y> 
nea,  pniiiier|i(pignnu  on  a,  114 


PoiBciicj,  Utcttti-,  4H9 

Fdi9>ou,  kfUnd  ot,  A  iitcnry  jmpoaturc,  491 
FdKOto,  Ugo,  J<9 

caily  ciulomi  of,  iBS,  189  i   pRInl  for' Ibc 
Frandi,  Siint,  FkLiculoni  Icgeodi  of,  35 


French  Academy,  iL __  

on  a  potlrM  of  Rlchellen.  114;  1 

French)  fa4i>on<  under  Ch«1n  II.,  B6 
French  ni'Olalion,  pmliclionioElhG,  4 


OiUois,  AbM,  literuy  jonmali  ol,  f,  t 


rbnt,  Pope.pcnccntioni  of,  10 

rman,  the  vhting-master,  44  r 

nnaiB,  tirerarv  nockd  of  the,  15a 

mer'a  BibUolheca,  literary  bluiMcr  in,  m 

moone,  the  Italian  historian,  44c :  his  manyT- 
-.446 


Cildan,  the  poclica]  critic,'  114 


Gibbon,  an  author  Arst  b^ 

idcin,thc 
llois,  |ieTlumed,S5';  hiiloiy  of,  gS;  hate  been 


country,  486 
Golden  legend.  54 ;  ipcciijicni  of 
Golt2iul,  a  masterly  imitator,  9S 
Congnn,  the  Spanish  poet,  38 

Goths,  their  funeral  nonoors  to  dn 


v»f, 


INDEX. 


57J 


Grace,  Your,  title  of,  66 

Grammatical  deaths,  i jj,  i  j6 

Grammont,  De,  anecdote  of,  15 

Granrelle,    Cardinal,  discovery    of    nis    curious 

MSS.,  8 

Gray,  poetical  imitations  of,  an,  aia;  hb  tup- 
pressed  MSS.,  5^'4 ;  his  perserering  study  of  the 
geography  of  India  and  Persia,  527 
Great  Mogul,  flattery  of  the,  68 
Green,  Robert,  a  primeval  dealer  in  English  litera- 
ture, j  a 
Gregoin,  Abb6,  literaiy  blunder  of,  lai 
Gregory  Vn.,  Pope,  his  blind  bigotrv,  ip 
Grimaldi,  Constantino,  persecuted  by  the  Jesuits, 

117 
Oronovins,  a  malevolent  cntic,  no 
Grotius,  biographical  notices  of,  ^9 ;  his  various 

literary  productions,  ib. ;  his  death,  Jo 
Guarini,  the  Italian  poet,  literary  blunder  con- 
nected with,  lao 
Guarino  Veronese,  his  manuscripts  shipwrecked, 

ai 
Guelphs  and  GhibeUines,  factions  of  the,  401 
Guibert,  the  French  writer,  hb  prediction,  478 
Guicdardini,  the  Italian  historian,  444 
Guilt,  triab  and  proofs  of,  in  superstitious  ages,  60 
Guise,  Duke  of,  memoirs  of  the,  409 
Gull,  the  victim  of  usurers  and  gamblers,  237 
Gustavus  Adolphus,  historical  speculations  on,  338 

H 

Hair,  an  object  of  fashion  in  all  ages,  8a,  83 

Hales,  relic  at,  91 

Halifax,  Lord,  his  critique  on  Pope's  Iliad,  jo 

Hallcr,  Baron,  literary  wife  of,  laa 

Halley's  version  of  an  Arabic  ms.,  ja8 

Hamilton,  Elizabeth,  sentimental  biography  pro- 
jected by, 53a 

Handwriting,  art  of  judging  character  from,  438 ; 
distinctness  of  character  m  several  of  our  sovc- 
^'gn^  439;  literanr  notices  of,  440  et  scq. 

Hans  Carvel,  story  01  the  ripg  of.  4a 

Hanseatic  Union,  formation  of  the,  70 

Happy  conjecture,  138 

Hardouin,  his  pretended  discovery  of  literary  for- 
geries, 490 

Harleian  manuscript,  leaves  torn  out  of  the,  34a 

Harlequin,  the,  aaa 

Hartley,  Dr.,  his  predictions,  479 

Harvey,  hb  discovery  of  the  circulation  of  the 
blood,  ja8;  persecutions  of,  10 

Hatton,  Lady,  domestic  history  of,  371,  37a ;  me- 
morial to,  371 ;  her  conjugal  quarrels,  371-3 

Hell,  Oldham's  Satires  on,  70 ;  monkish  description 
of,  ib. ;  all  the  illustrious  pagans  condemned  to 
the  eternal  torments  of,  77 

Henrietta,  queen  of  Charles  I.,  secret  history  of, 
301  et  seq. 

Henry,  Prince,  son  of  James  I.,  anecdotes  of,  when 
a  cnild,  245  ;  his  lamented  death,  253 

Henry  III.  of  England,  hi)  devotion  to  relics,  91 

Henry  IV.,  Emperor,  dethroned,  68 

Hcniy  VI.  a  believer  in  alchymy,  107 

Henry  VIII.,  Luther's  invectives  against,  115  ;  pro- 
clamation of,  514 

Hcraclitus,  persecutions  of,  10 

Heretics,  catalogue  of,  130 

— —  characterisod  as  beasts,  116 


"  Hermipprs  Redivivus  "  of  Dr.  Campbell,  singu- 
lar blunder  of,  120 

Herodotus,  reproachful  criticisms  on,  10 

He>iin,  the  rival  biographers  of,  457  ;  his  history 
of  the  Puritans  and  Presbyterians,  466 

Heywood,  John,  proverbs  collected  by,  393 

High  Shcritf,  Sir  £.  Coke's  exceptions  against  hb 
oath,  J41 

Highness,  title  of,  66 ;  objection  to,  67 

Hill,  Sir  John,  hiit  literary  knavery,  52 

Hippocrates,  followers  of,  17 

Hbtorians  treated  by  Pliny  as  narrators  of  fables, 
9;  of  Italy,  443 

Historical  proverbs,  401 

Historical  study,  plan  of,  aio 

Histories  of  ancient  nations  partly  lost,  21 ;  be- 
longing to  proverbs,  400 

History,  loss  of,  never  to  be  repaired,  22  ;  frequent 
pen'crsion  of,  7a ;  crises  of,  frequently  a  close 
resemblance  to  each  other,  476;  philosophy 
of,  480 

"  History  of  the  World,"  literary  fantasies  respect- 
ing the,  113 

Hobtcin,  amusements  of,  15 

Homer,  criticisms  on,  9 ;  literary  fantasies  respect- 
ing, 1x3;  French  controvert  respecting  the 
works  of,  119 

Homilies,  explanation  of,  22 

Horace,  criticism  on,  9 

Howel,  author  of  "  Familiar  Letters,"  imprison- 
ment of,  14 

Howell,  Sir  John,  advocates  the  Inquisition,  63 

Hudde,  the  Chinese  scholar,  his  manuscript  col- 
lections shipwrecked,  21 

Hudibras,  on  the  hero  of,  359 

Huguenots  of  France,  435 

Hurd,  Bishop,  literary  notices  of,  J32,  J33 

Hutchison,  Mrs.,  her  account  of  the  '*  Rump,"  556 

Huns,  their  funeral  honours  to  deceased  sovereigns, 
74 

I 

IBERTHA,  daughter  of  Charlemagne,  34 

"  Icon  Basilike,"  historical  speculations  on,  338 

Icon  libellorum,  of  Mylcs  Davies,  128 

Iconologia,  a  favourite  book  of  the  age,  xij 

Ignatius,  St.,  dirty  habits  of,  3$ 

Iliad  of  Homer  in  a  nutshell,  103 ;  possibility  of 
demonstrated,  104 

lUustrioiu,  title  of,  66 

Imitations  and  similarities  in  the  poets,  210  et  seq. 

Imitators,  follies  of,  25  ;  masterly,  97 

Imprisonment  of  the  learned,  13 ;  favourable  to 
their  pursuits,  13,  14 

Inchbald,  Mrs.,  destroys  her  mss.,  21 

InchofTcr,  Melchior,  the  Jesuit,  131 

Indalece,  St.,  translation  of  the  body  of,  90 

Indexes,  utility  of,  27 

Indexes  of  prohibited  books,  256,  257 

Ingenious  thoughts,  27 

Inghirami  family,  literary  forger)'  connected  with 
the,  400 

Inks,  inferiority  of,  in  modem  times,  186  ;  of  va- 
rious colours,  187 

Inncs,  a  literar>-  impostor,  492 

Innocent  III.  establishes  the  Inquisition,  62 

Inquisition  established  by  Innocent  III.,  6a;  its 
horrors  and  cruelties,  63  ;  resisted  in  France,  ib. ; 


finiici  botomil  on,  64  \  ibolkhctl  In  Sfain  1 

Ilitkn,  t^v  d'nciTbls  of,  49a 
Iwcralfl,  dclicicnt  IQ  pubJic  ipeikin^  40 


Itilv,  Ant  ikLblic  Ubnry  in^  1 ;  butoncjl  tpcculi- 

At'  Hti.icis  JJ9J  fmrmtH  of,  397 
Iny,  bittlc  of,  fibe  rcporti  topccting  thr,  ^40 


}htcTofjRdiiccdtopov«ty,69;  cha 


pTDclaimlion  ajpinA  aulfacn  and  bnoki,  159; 
hii  polilicil  iliniruUin  under  Uk  idminHtntion 

HlfalbcrdDdahiubabd,4^j  lEii procjimalj^ 


...  danoyed.  iB 

D(  books  I? ;  ucrcd  booki 


CD  rhe,  76,  f  T  L  their  lying  and  4i>raiiieeriDgipiriI, 
HliKiuIeof.ej 
Jcvbb  Talmud,  copies  or.  donoyed.  iS 


in,  DT,,};  /  baliiiittfarthelKeDrpDpe.jij. 

IB,  Dand.  thewiHiDi-mitter,  441 :  hhcili- 
blc  conlcMs,  441 

'  on  InnaJuion,  361 


MMcph,  PiiUxr'tlM  coc 
■UchclKD.  3D7 1  hu  I 


5».!U 

ladafBB,  U[e 
Judicial  utrti 
Judicial  com 


ongit^  VI.  or,  dAcovemi,  S 


iliinB  handl.  On  LU,.  iu=,u...  u,,  «n 

klcbcn.  Dt-,  Buhopof  LlmdaiF,  74 
Donlicrt,  bia  litr  aluLbci,  ^^ 
Koran  comigDed  to  the  tumei  \if  Cardinal  X 


La^rise,  Capil^ne,  the  Klf^Iaugbl,  t 
Liuia,  fUnus  addiosed  m,  8] 

Leanxd.  penccutinnf  of  (be,  10 ;  par 


Le    BruD,   his  pedaoric   imitjlioiu   cJ   cIj 

Le.^i>i1%  their  oti^D  and  hiHory,  34  ^  bcliH 

Lei^injt7'«  pbilowphical  reuonin^,  jaS 

Lc  Maitre,  fbui>dcr  ol  the  Port^Roj-al  Societ}', 

L'Enf^tnt,  Ifac  lileniy  rrvicv'cr,  6 

Len^et   du    FrcMtny   and   hiy  "  Mtfthode 

Leo.  ha  pTDjerted   alliance  agaiiHl  the  Tuikj, 
Ltonardj   da  Vinci,   manuicTipli  of,  neglecteil. 
La  Rue,  the  jocular  ptcaeher,  97 
L'En^iange,  Sir  Roger,  a  pcifcci  nwdel  of  pallii 

UbKIt  lint  publlibed  u  pamphleti,  uS 


INDEX. 


575 


Lipsios,  Justin,  literary  notices  of,  471 

Literary  anecdotes,  288;  Dr.  Johnson's  defence  of, 
ib. ;  sometimes  trifling,  a88, 189 

Literary  antiquary,  life  and  habits  of  a,  5  j8 ;  Oldys 
and  bis  mm.,  j 59  et  seq. ;  life  of  a,  jte 

Literary  blunders,  119-iaa 

Literary  Bobadils,  119 

Literary  composition,  ao7 ;  critical  notices  and 
anecdotes  of,  308,  209 

Literary  contrm-ersies,  ixj;  their  bitterness,  xij 
ct  sea. ;  of  the  Nominalists  and  the  Realists,  1 17  j 
on  subjects  of  private  literature,  xi8 

Litcraiy  Dutch,  x  jo 

Literary  fashions,  3x8 

Literary  (ikhen,  493 

Literary  follies,  ixo  et  seq. 

Literary  forgeries,  113,  486,  487-489;  introduced 
into  bibliography,  49X 

Literary  friendsbifM,  196 

Literary  impostures,  50 

Literary  Institutions  of  Italy,  ridiculous  titles  as- 
sumed  by  the,  35$ 

Literary  journals,  4,  ix;  invention  of  reviews  by 
Denis  de  Sallo,  5;  by  Abbi  Gallois,  ib. ;  by 
Bayle,  ib. ;  by  Le  Clerc,  6 ;  by  Beausobre  and 
L'Enfant,  ib. ;  Dr.  Maty's  Journal  fintannique, 
ib. ;  M^moires  de  Tre%'Oux,  ib. ;  English  jour- 
nals, ib. ;  difficulty  of  forming,  ib. ;  character  of 
a  perfect  one,  a  mere  ideal  portrait,  ib. 

Literary  rnen,  nuptial  state  of,  .exposed  to  many 
chagrins,  134 

Literary  parallels,  533 

Literary  residences,  <3i 

Literary  sinner,  good  advice  of  an  old  one,  X31 

Literary  unions,  436 

Literary  wives,  disquisition  on,  133  et  seq. ;  con- 
nubial shrews,  X34 

Literature,  poetical  imitations  and  similarities  in, 
3IO  et  seq. ;  English  Academy  of,  338 

Little  books,  advantages  of,  130 

Littleton,  the  Latinist,  a  punster,  i  X4 

Livy,  second  decade  of,  discovered,  8 ;  reproachful 
criticisms  on,  9 ;  his  history  partly  lost,  3x ;  his- 
torical views  of,  336 

Loango,  curious  custom  of  the  king  of,  65 

Local  descriptions,  379 

Lombard,  Peter,  s^led  the  "  Master  of  Sentences," 

aj 
Longuevillc,  Duchess  of,  a  patroness  of  Port-Royal, 

3^37 
Lopes  de  Vega,  the  Spanirii  poet,  38 
•*  Lord  of  Misrule,"  374,  375 
Lost  works,  notices  of,  31 
Louis  XII.  of  France,  hb  literary  laboure  during 

imprisonment,  X3 
Louis  XIV.,  literary  notices  of,  3x4 
Love  and  folly,  an  ancient  morality,  iH 
Lover's  heart,  storv  of  the,  88 
Loves  of  "  the  Lady  Arabella,*'  363  et  seq. 
Loyola,  Ignatius,  the  founder  of  the  Jesuits  from 

accident,  3  a 
Luther,  Martin,  his  violent  invectives  against  the 

Pope    and   the    Papists,    1x5;     Abbe    Barral's 

character  of,   140;    historical  speculations  on, 

337  ;  satirical  medals  directed  a^inst,  436 
Luyncs,  Duke  of,  his  promotion,  179 
Lytliat,  wrote   his    Anix>tations   on    the    Parian 

Chronicle  while  in  prison,  X4 
Lypogrammatists  oi  ancient  Greece,  no 


Mabillon's  exposure  of  a  pious  blunder,  xae,  X3i 
Macaire,  St.,  miserable  superrtition  of,  3< 
Macedo,  his  praises  of  the  Inquirition,  64 ;  a  lite* 

rar^  Bobadil,  xx9 
Machiavel,  the  Italian  historian,  444 
Machiavelli,  his  publication  of  Plutarch's  Apoph- 
thegms of  the  Ancients,  8 
Mackenzie,  Sir  George,  discovery  of  his  secret 

history,  p 
Macklin,  the  actor,  soi 
Madman,  comedy  of  a,  319 
Majean,  St.,  translation  of  the  relics  of,  90 
Ma^,  the  Italian  scholar,  imprisonment  of,  X4 
Magic,  accusations  of,  dispersed  by  the  lights  of 

philosophy,  11 ;  one  of  the  follies  of  science,  34 
Magicians  of  past  ages,  483 
Magius,  Charles,  travels  and  adventures  of,  438; 

pictures  of  his  life,  439 ;   his  return  to  Venice, 

and  reception,  430 
Magliabechi,  literary  notices  of,  147,  148 
Ma^a  Chaita,  an  original  one  discovered,  8 
Maiden-rights,  shameful  institution  of,  69 
Maillard,  Oliver,  the  jocular  preacher,  95 
MalacridJa,  Gabriel,  burnt  for  heretical  notions,  63 
Malebranche,  an  author  first  by  accident,  33 
Malhcrbe,  38 ;  the  father  of  French  poetry,  308 
Malice,  disguised,  employed  by  certain  writers, 

1x9 
Malignant,  nickname  of,  4x0 
Malvidian  ulanders,  their  custom  of  eating  alone, 

64 
Man  of  one  book,  50X 

Mandrake,  playful  operations  of  nature  in  the,  93 
Manetho's  History  01  Egypt,  a  few  fragments  only 

preserved,  31 
Manfred,  Lord  of  Pnenza,  401 
Manna,  Rabbinical  notions  of,  47,  49 
Mansfield,  Earl,  destniction  of  his  msb.,  19 
Manuscripts,  on  the  recovery  of,  7:    important 
articles  of  commerce  during  the  Middle  Ages,  ib. ; 
great  efforts  made  for  the  recovery  of,  on  the  re- 
vival of  letters,  ib. ;  discovered  m  the  obscurest 
recesses  of  monasteries,  ib.:  the  high  estimation 
in  which  they  were  once  neld,  ib. ;  destruction 
of,  ib. ;   hbtorical  notices  of,  140 ;  suppressors 
and  dilapidatorsof,34X ;  immense  collections  of, 
nnce  the  institution  of  lurional  libraries,  517 
Manutii,  the  printers  of  Italy,  39 
Marana,  J.  P.,  the  writer  of  the  "Turkish  Spy," 

MI 
Margaret,  Queen  of  Hoary  IV.  of  France,  her 

literary  labours  during  imprisonment,  13 
Marlborough,  Duke  of,  building  of  Blenheim -house 

for,  4x6 ;  his  great  wealth,  418 
Marlborough,  Duchess  of,  her  quarrel  with  Van- 

brugh,  4x8 ;  her  malignity,  419 
Marolles,  Abbd  de,  amusements  of,  14  ;  an  egre- 
gious scribbler,  131 ;  an  author  who  ruined  his 

bookseller,  376 
Marot,  Clement,  "the   prince    of  poets,"  353; 

universal  rcceprion  of  his  Psalms,  354 
Marriage,  feudal  customs  attendant  on,  69 
Marriage  of  the  Arts,  191,  193 
Martial's  x86th  epigram,  15 
Marvell,  literary  abuse  of,  iio 
Mar\cllous,  bustle  of  the,  486 
Marville,  anecdotes  of,  and  his  opinions,  x6,  17 


i 


Hay,  qu«D  of  ScoO,  p< 


Wajon,  Mr.,  nunimiDn  mppreMd  b)-,  iu 

MUKV,  (he  vtitiiviTijiln-.  44a 
MwtkMOj  Ihc  jocular  pmclicr. 


Mulciirin 


onio,  diirv  of  >,  n* 
oodht  le»mni  10,  iij 


cuuR,"  ukm 


Henot,  Mictucli  thejocaUr  prvAcbrr,  95 
utile  i)ilenli,96 

Mctaphjrics  oT  tbe  uHicDb,  ij 

tiquilT',  tnd  AlmiBt  unii'crul  prc^'AJcnc 
Mctiiul  Pu]nn  of  Stenitiuld,  i  puriunic 
Mctnpolli,  building  in  the,  jtoj  ihc  ! 

MickLe,  the  tnndilDi  ol  Cimoat,  bis 

Migiurd,  Peter,  1  muKrly  imilitor,  n 

Hilton,  hii  litcnn-  contnu  ■ilh  &1I11I: 

lilupendoB)  ngjfrat.  SJ;  poctiwl  Imii 

Milton  ind  Ihe  lliUiD  IbcilK,  »J 


Munjrdn,  amow  perulurida  of ,  A j  ;  of  PoluuL 

ib.  I  number  ol  Jcttaroacd.  U 
Monirthv,  clKliiT,  •«!«  hiHcnr  of.  joj 

Monev.  Value  of  in  Hngjind,  temp.  Bihnrd  VT^ 
i»'j  rooln.ioo  o(  tht  ttno,  40) 


MootAcur^-.  the  tngic  iccor,  93 
MooUuc,  tbe  polilicil  negoditot,  {ej,  50* 


ringdnonnial 


',  Dt,,  J  niotiem  naIoni<l, 


iiplci,  the  Otlai  ickdcmy  ntibliib 


Necdhun,  Wvchjimool,  the  greit  pjtnvch  ol 

ncw^piper  wrilcn,  59 
Ne^nivft,  Uivm  ol  fjrcicti  ulutltioi»»  iSo 
Kentnfii',  liteniy  sdUcci  of,  sm 


INDEX, 


577 


Newton,  Adam,  tutor  of  Prince  .Henry,  ion  of 

James  I^  S46. 
-         ■,  Sir  I.,  hit  yieat  discorerict  first  arose  from 

accident,  33  ;  his  hints  and  discoveries,  538 
Neydon,  Sir  C,  hb  defence  of  astrology,  105,  106 
Nicetas  Cboniates  on  the  ravages  committed  by 

the  Christians  of  the  thirteenth  century,  18 
Nicknames  among  the  Hebrews,  304;   political, 

408 
"  Kight  and  the  Hours,"  a  masmie,  389, 383 
NobiUty,  historical  notices  of,  100 
Noblemen  turned  critics,  jo 
Nominalists,  their  literary  controversies,  117,  407 
Nonsense  verses,  iia 

Norfolk,  Duke,  h'ts  letter  to  Queen  Elizabeth,  243 
Nouvelettes,  religious,  135 
Novels,  literary  notices  of,  168 
Numerical  figures  of  Indian  orisin,  104;  use  of 

Roman  numerals  previous  to  tne  use  df  Arabic 

figures,  ib ;  clerical  errors  in  the  use  of,  ib. 


OcKLBT,  Simon,  the  oriental  scholar,  his  povert>',  12 

Ogilby,  translator  of  Homer  and  Virgil,  37 

Oui  age,  progress  of,  in  new  studies,  37  ;  remark- 

able  instances  of,  37,  38 
Oldys,  the  literary  antiquary,  and  his  manuscripts, 
S5S»  S59  ct  seq.;  appointed  Norroy  King   of 
Arms,  ^59 ;  anecdote  of,  ib.  n. ;  character  of,  <63; 
the  mmnteness  of  his  anticjuarian  researches, 
565 ;  anecdote  oL  in  connection  with  Pope,  566 ; 
the  existence  of   his    mss.  of   an  ambiguous 
nature,  ib. 
Opinion,  suppressed,  expression  of,  434 
•*  Olivetan  Bible,"  435 
Ordeals,  superstition  of,  61,  6a 
Orobio,  his  imprisonment  in  the  cells  of  the  In- 
quisition, 63 
Ortho^phy  of  proper  names,  264 
Otaheitans,  their  repasts,  64 
Otto  Venius,  stran|^  inventions  of,  115 
Oxford,  Edward  Earl  of,  secret  history  of,  a66 
Oziosi,  academy  of  the,  at  Naples,  358 


PAINTIKG,  with  different  kinds  of  ink,  i8j  ;  school 

of,  at  Bologna,  335  ;  promoted  by  the  Caraccis, 

336  et  seq. 
Palaces  built  by  ministers,  446 
Palatine    Apollo,    library  of,  committed  to   the 

flames,  19 
Palavicini's    History   of   the   Council    of   Trept, 

a  singular  blunder  connected  with,  xao 
Paley,  amusements  of,  i  j 
Palingenesis,  theory  of,  483 

Palmer,  Mr.,  of  Sussex,  fined  1000/.  for  not  re- 
siding in  the  country,  jia 
Pamphlets,    critical    history  of,  138;   derivation 

of,  139 
Pantomimi    of   the    Romans,  3ao,    331 ;   of  the 

Italians,  333 
Pantomimical  characters,  319 
Paper,  of  great   antiquity   for  writing  on,   186; 

modem  superiority  of,  ih. ;  manufacture  of,  ib. 
Papists,  their  controversial  bitterness,  116 
Papyrus,  Europe  deprived  of  the  use  of,  on  the 

contjuest  of  Egypt  by  the  Saracens,  7  ;  u^cd  for 

writing,  186 


Paracelsus,  his  recipe  for  manufacturing  a  fairy,  483 

Parchment  substituted  for  papyrus,  7 

Parisian  massacre,  apologr  for  the,  473 

Parliament,  proceedings  in,  intenlicted  at  the 
Restoration,  60 ;  its  contests  with  Charles  I.,  541 
et  seq. 

Parodies,  literary  notices  of,  345 ;  taste  for,  pre- 
valent with  the  Greeks  346 ;  dramatic  parodies 
in  modem  literatiire,  347 

Parties,  political,  nicknames  of,  411 

Paschal,  historiographer  of  France,  a  literary  Im- 
postor, 50 

Paschal's  application  to  his  "  Provincial  Letters," 
308 

Pas  d'armes,  a  kind  of  festival,  J34 

Pasquicr  and  Marforio,  78 ;  origin  of  the  name  of 
Pas(]uier,  ib. 

Pasquier's  nuptial  state,  134 

Patrons,  their  treatment  of  authors,  31 

"  Paveant  illi,  non  paveam  ego,"  ridiculous  con- 
straction  of,  lao 

Paulus  Manutius,  his  pedantic  imitations,  aj 

Paulus  Jovius,  literary  notices  of,  17 

Pearl  Bibles,  and  six  thousand  errata,  533 

Peiresc,  the  French  antiquary,  discoveries  of,  J37 ; 
amusements  of,  14 ;  destruction  of  his  letters,  30 ; 
thelcamed  introducer  of  exotic  flowers,  etc.,  133 

Pelivion,  strange  amusement  of,  when  confined 
in  the  Bastile,  103 

Pen.4,  use  of,  in  writing,  i8j 

People,  songs  for  the,  338 

Pcrceforcst,  romance  of,  166 

Perj^mus,  used  for  writing,  186 

Penoilical  papers,  their  early  history,  59;  their 
ditfierent  titles,  ih. 

Perpetual  lamps  of  the  ancients,  01 

Perpetual  motion,  one  of  the  lollies  of  science, 

Persia,  records  and  literary  works  of,  destroyed,  18  j 
titles  of  the  kings  of,  67 

**  Persian  Tales,"  166 

Petitioners,  nickname  of,  411 

Pctiver,  James,  a  famous  botanist.  136 

Petrarch,  persecuted  bv  the  priesthood,  1 1 

Pctronius,  purity  and  impurity  of,  37 

Pettus,  Sir  John,  hb  literary  labours  during  im- 
prisonment, 13 

Philip  AugtiTitus  placed  under  an  interdict,  307 

Philip  of  Spain  and  Mar\'  Queen  of  England,  175; 
historical  notices  of,  175,  176 

Philip  in.  of  Spain,  the  victim  of  etiquette,  73  ;  a 
weak  bigot,  tb. ;  satire  on,  74 ;  trial  of,  180 

Philippines,  islanders  of  the,  their  sociable  cus- 
toms, 64 

Philosophers  charged  with  magic,  and  persecuted 
by  the  priesthood,  11 ;  made  by  accident,  33 

Philosophical  descriptive  poems,  127;  principal 
writers  on,  137,  laS 

Philosophical  stone,  one  of  the  follies  of  science, 

24.25^ 
Philosophy,  dreams  at  the  dawn  of,  481 
Philosophy  of  history,  480 
Philosophy  of  proverbs,  391  (,$ee  Proverbs.) 
Physiognomical  anecdotes,  56 
Physiognomy,  physiological  definition  of,  56 
Pic'art,  Bernard,  a  masterly  imitator,  97 
Pichon,  an  ingenious  thought  of,  37 
Picrius  Valerianus,  amusements  of,  15 
Pinellian  library,  destraction  of  the,  31 


dciH,  alary  of  two,  jf 
I  ADd  obKurity,  prnfcwi 


lUtiB,  JL  Tew  ODly  of  hb  comcdici  praerrvd,  si  i 
ifca,  pmccuIloiH  or  (be,  ^i,  iB} ;  Ibrit  prU- 


Hutnch*!  Apophtbcgraaoflhc  ABdenli,dltcoTery 
pDemi  published  u  umpblcti,  iiS 

PKRU,  pUkoophlciL  and  daciiptivc,  r>}j  Ibe 
piiDd^  wnlcn,  tn,  tat 

pDcn  mxle  by  icclilnt,  ii  i  pcam  the  gn»tnt 
cenjm  «iib  the  leas  indunty.j^ ;  hisloncaJ  uid 


Poggki')  ditcovenr  of  •  copy  of  duintilljn,  J.  S 

■"O""!'';'.  W  «  "?■  i  nunteuvriDg  in  the  di 
puatnf  IfKfrmtiiDf,  J09,  51a 


Politicfll  foreerics  »ul  fictioiu,  431 

PolmcjlTelicioniun',**! 

^Lybiuip  iifrene  critvisin  on,  loj    hntorj  of, 

Myglgt  bibk  al  Dr.  CMtell,  iedioiionjof,  ijj 

Pomponim  Lartui,  poverty  of,  11 

IU|>e,  AlexiBdcr,  cniiquB  of  Lord  Hibbx  cm  bii 

of  bis  lUad  ftamtd  in  the  Briliih  Mmcuni, 
117  i  Dt.  Johiuon's  binti  tor  Ibe  life  of,  J17, 
jiSi  ancololc  of, lo coDoectiaa  with Uldyi  ihc 
■nliqtury,  j66 
Wpa,  peculiar  cusloms  of  the,  nf  i  theii  ioCiUI- 
biUty,  ib. ;  ell«l  of  ibeit  inlerdicl,  ib. 


the  Andeoti,  4lf ;  in  modem  timet,  47*  el : 

on«i[ilK,4]8,4T9 
Predictknu,  monl.  od  In^Ttduls,  4fij  phil 

phiri],  479 ;  pDliliciL,  4S4 
Prtfjice*,  on  the  wrillDg  of,  j6 ;  on^c  to  be  dj 

Presbytemiu,    ifacir    paUtico-relipooi    coBte^ 


Pnct,  Itohert,  1  Wtbh  Uwjer,  jji 
Frtnling,  in  ently  otigin,  18  j  practised  li 
aoA  ID  Rome,  h-i  early  praflin  of,  td  Ev^aod, 
ib.;  pTiclised  throii^wnt  Europe  CEvai  1440  tir 
1500,39;  CaxIDo  ud  Fut,  ib. 

Priscilliui  and  bis  fellowen,  andemaiitiait    ttt, 

Profsne  learning.  oH^n  of  the  term,  la 

ProclamaticKU,  niya],5r«;  of  HeniyVIH 

Marr,  ib.;  of  Edward  VI.,  Ib.^  of  Rliin 


"TDpcr  [ume9,oTtho^phy  of,  tti 
Toleitant  and  Catholic  dnmis,  ■)« 
Tofcrbr,  ^iloHphy  of,  joi ;  tutc  been  k 
diruae,  ib.i  hiooncal  and  titemy  noticva  0 
et  acq.;  their  inAuenceover  tbemind,  31 


C0nIeRa,466i  Buckingbam- 


["wtu^J 


t  Qutnliliin,  IT 
( I  of,  partly  In 
i«uii,.n._Curt 


rlc,  OIK  of  the  tolSa 
Engbah  poetry,  443 ; 


7f 


INDEX, 


579 


Rabbinical  stories  and  legends,  46 ;  their  folly,  47 

Racine  educated  at  Port-Royal,  36 

Rakigh,  Sir  Walter,  his -great  *'  History  of  the 
World"  written  during  bis  imprisonment,  13  ; 
hb  promotion,  179;  secret  history  of,  419; 
authentic  narrative  of  his  last  hours,  424 ;  his 
"  History  of  the  Worid,"  and  Vasari's  Lives,  4x6 ; 
q>kndour  of  hb  dress,  ja6 

Randolph,  literary  notices  of,  14a,  143 

Rans  des  Vaches,'its  influence  over  the  Swiss,  103 

Rantzau,  Henry,  the  (bunder  of  the  great  librar}- 
at  Copenhagen,  a 

Rawletgh,  ortho^phy  of  the  name,  364 ;  his 
violent  discussion  with  Sir  B.  Coke,  374 ;  {see 
Raleigh,  Sir  Walter) 

Raynaud,  the  Jesuit,  116;  an  author  who  mined 
hb  bookseller,  378 ;  his  various  works,  and  their 
different  subjects,  378, 379 

Reading,  on  the  course  of,  50X 

Realbts,  their  literary  controversies,  117,  407 

Reciprocal  verses,  iia 

Reformation,  destruction  of  books  and  works  of 
art  at  the  period,  19 ;  controversial  invectives  of 
its  supporters  and  opponent<,  116  j  historical 
speculations  on,  338 ;  its  origin,  431 ;  expression 
of  suppressed  opinion  at  the,  435 

Re^ier,  Abbe,  a  masterly  imitator,  98 

Relics  of  saints,  90 ;  miracles  performed  by,  90, 
91 ;  sale  of,  91 ;  strange  collection  of,  ib. 

Rdig^n,  polemics  of,  aa;  speculations  in  the 
history  of,  538 ;  a  new  demon  of  discord  in  a 
metaphysical  ^arb,  353 

Religionbm,  political,  465 

Religions,  dit^nvnt  sects  of,  130 

Religious  books,  concealment  of  the  authors' 
names,  x\ 

Religious  nouvelettes,  13$ 

Religions  sects,  their  antagonism  and  animosities, 
4(^  et  seq. 

Religious  wars  of  Europe,  466,  467 

Reliquix  GcthinianK,  376 

**  Remains,  appetite  for,"  on  the  increase,  517, 
5ai 

Repasts,  singularities  observed  by  various  nations 
in  their,  6^ 

Reports,  false,  339 ;  in  ancient  as  well  as  modem 
times,  341 

Reptiles  influenced  by  music,  103 

Residences  in  the  country,  510;  proclamations  for 
enforcing,  511,  51a ;  o^e  on,  51a 

Restoration,  secret  history  of  the,  $19 

Reviews,  invention  of,  5  ;  constitute  a  great  portion 
of  literary  history,  ib.  {see  Literary  Journals.) 

Reynolds,  Sir  J.,  an  artbt  tint  by  accident,  3a 

,  Dr.,  the  anti-dramatist,  a8x 

Rhymes,  punning,  iii,  iia 

Riccoboni,  Louis,  an  accomplished  actor  and  a 
literar>'  man,  aa7 

Richardson,  vmtings  of,  199 

Richelieu,  Cardinal  de,  amusements  of,  15  ;  anec- 
dotes of,  5a;  his  literar}- jealousies,  5a,  53;  his 
tragedy  of  "  Europe,"  53  ;  its  rejection,  ib. ;  a 
great  politician,  ib. ;  instituted  the  French  Acad- 
emy, ib. ;  literar)'  dedications  to,  I2*t ;  hb  hatred 
of  the  Duke  of  Buckingham,  178  ;  the  greatest  of 
statesmen,  306;  secret  history  of,  300  et  seq. ; 
hb  apolo^  to  the  Duke  of  Buckingham,  311 


Richcsource,  a  miserable  declaimer,  149,  150 

Ripa,  Ccsarc  di,  author  of  Iconologia,  11^ 

Robinson  Criwoc,  a78 ;  the  work  of  Dc  Foe,  ib. 

Rochefoucault,  characteristics  of,  4a 

Rohault,  amus;:mcnts  of,  14 ;  hb  wife,  xa4 

Roman  emperors,  flattery  of,  67,  68 

Roman  manuscripts,  destruction  of,  7 

Roman  humernls,  origin  and  use  of,  X04 

Romances,  historical  and  literary  notices  of, 
165  et  seq. ;  the  offspring  of  Action  and  love, 
165 

Romans,  their  manuscripts  and  libraries,  x,  a ;  their 
destruction  of  books,  17  ;  of  modem  times,  feel- 
ingly alive  to  their  obscured  glory,  357 

Romnev,  the  painter,  a  credulous  a'lch)  mist,  107 

Rosciad,  the,  140 

Rosicrucius,  lamp  of,  9a 

Rousseau,  the  Hrst  efforts  of  hb  genius,  3a 

Royal  divinities,  67 

Royal  families  of  conquered  countries,  their  de- 
scendants found  among  the  dregs  of  the  people, 
69 

Royal  proclamations,  513,  514 

Royal  promotions,  179 

Royal  Society,  establishment  of  the,  330 

Rubens'  house  at  Antwerp,  5a3 

Ruffes,  fashion  of  wearing,  85 

Ruin  one's  self,  whether  allowable  to,  533 

Rump  Parliament,  ludicrous  nickname  of  the,  J54 ; 
its  origin  and  hbtory,  554,  555 

Rump  songs,  556 

Rumpcrs,  their  disortpniring  features  obser%ed  in 
the  French  Sans-culottes,  557  ;  their  war  against 
property,  ib. 

*'  Run  a  muck,"  application  of  the  term,  71 

Rushworth,  author  of  "Historical  Recollections," 
his  poverty  and  death,  la 

RjTncr,  the  historiographer,  his  po%-erty,  la 

8 

Saints,  lives  of  the,  34 ;  many  of  tliem  apocryphal, 
34-36 ;  ridiculous  legentb  cf  the,  3^  ; '  their 
ridiculous  habits  and  customs,  ib. ;  {see  Ignatius 
Francis,  etc.) ;  legendary  histor)'  of,  61 ;  relics 
of,  90 

St.  Aulairc,  Marquis  de,  37 

St.  Austin,  anecdote  of  his  mother,  116 

St.  Bartholomew,  massacre  of,  47a 

St.  Gillcs,  count  de,  7a 

St.  l5i<lore's  missal,  curious  anecdote  of,  18 

St.  Paul's  Epistle,  Ethiopian  version  of,  full  of 
blunders,  30 

St.  Ursula  and  her  virgins,  a  literary  blunder,  lai 

Sallcngrc,  amusiements  of,  15 

Sallo,  Denis  de,  the  originator  of  numerous  literary 
journals,  5  ;  severity  of  his  criticisms,  ib. 

Sallust,  adverse  criticism  on,  10;  pedantic  imita- 
tions of,  2$ 

Salmasius,  his  vituperations  against  Milton,  57,  58; 
death  of,  58 ;  his  termagant  wife,  134 

Salutation,  modes  of,  obser\'ed  in  various  nations, 
180 

Saluting,  custom  of,  after  sneezing,  48 

Sanconinthan's  history  of  Phoenicia,  a  few  frag- 
ments only  prescr\'cd,  at 

Sanna/.arius,  his  pedantic  imitations  of  classical 
authorities,  aj 

Sannio,  aai 


iBo                                      nroEX                                           [ 

anaictia  of  1  poetical  life  eipaietacBd  Iv  Uni. 

taracem,  Uicir  eonquot  of  Egypt  depriTed  Borope 

4'J-4'6 

or  the  kH  »[  the  pipyni^  T  i  their  vuiDul  con- 

Bhrewiholy,  Earl  ol,  hit  BopQal  Kate,  114 

Sie«.iu.,  a  masterly  imilator,  fS 

citbnltHol.tj 

Bilk  WockiufT,  fir^wom  by  QneCn  maabeth.  If 

Satin,  Ihe  opteiBOn  of  luppiiHil  oirinion.  «4, 

Silkworm.,  Dc  Scrre.  00  the  art  of  uMag.  hi 
Simon,  Bichaid,  eurioui  hlenrr  aaecdntc  of,  ite 

8iHr!«i,fl(i  of  tbt  iTih  ccnlnij-.  iSj 

Sinu  V,  ht>  e<yiorial  blundesi  JO 
Skeleton  of  death,  hi«ory  o(  Uk,  454 
Sne«iiig,cii*tomor»lt>ling.^,4a,willi  Ibc 

aatunulii,  UKient  ind  modmi,  2ji  j  ol  (he  Ro- 
mim,  >TJ  1  eitincliaii  of,  In  mcxirrn  times,  t]t ; 

Stil.itet.^^nved  by  Mumtu,  981  bn  "Defence 

sod^'oii  m'ss^"?)'^'  " 

of  Cicero."  iiS 

Solitude)  tniliKi  on,  194;   uxcdotia   of,    n). 

gcimm,  the   burlcMae  poet,   inecdole  oF,  19 ; 

■96 
Solonwn.  KLni!.  an  Arabian  legend  of,  4« 

!fcIIhi'iH'^'ii^',^Vrn™ot,ib.''"™  """ 

Solomon  and  Sheba,  pleauni  Koty  ef,^ 
to -L^y  Arabella,- ih'. 

uciucd  of  diabolic^  comDiunkation.  ib. 

rtfcctt  00  tbe  pnjgnst  of  the  buni»n  mind. 

Songs  of  trades  or  for  Ihe  neople,  «*,  119 

Sophocl'es  hrousht  10  trial  u  a  Innati^  jT     "* 

School  dli-inllT,  iketcb  of,  91 

]«i 

Soveteigntv  of  the  ku,  tat  ' 

Scioppia.,.bill«ciillc.i.g 

Science,  Ihe  ili  fnllkt  of,  >« 

)« 

Spanish  etiquette,  n  :  it.  Tidiculona  Eooleiia,  ib. 

Scuderia.^inily  of  the.  and  Iheir  Litem)'   pro- 

Spanish  kinifs.  title,  of,  M 

Scudm-.  Oeo^.hil  fcOilc  genius  and  thii»clel,    Spartans.  «-an  of  tbe,  iSl 

41 ;  alileiMj'Bobjdil.ii^                                     Spelman,  Mr  Hcnn,  37 

Scythian  province.,  their  cuitonu  in  wai,  iSi            Kpeiuer.  the  poet,  bn  poretty,  u  i  FuDee^  Adcb 

Scu,»veRigntyorilK,  »j                                         of.  141 

Secluded  meo,  diKDRriei  of,  f  ■;                             Spider,  eifect  of  muiic  on  a,  lOl 

of  hirtocy  iWlf,  ih.  J  n»rnLne«  .lln.tr-»d  bv  a    "RpirilnaL  Katendai,"  the.  13J 

public  eveol-«he    R«(orjtion-and  >  puldic    spon.  lihrrjfthlumlerof,  11. 

JI9                             ....                                jSj;  litenry  opponent,  of,  ih. 

Senate  of  Innin,  8]  ;  Ihcil  dcrtioclion,  Ih.                 starching,  ori^n  of,  RJ 

Seneca,   advene    criticiam    nn,    to;    bi<    lTeati>e    SUtioneti' Kiili.  MhUographieal  puTsatHmof,  19 
DD  the  amiuemcnti   of  the  leimcl,  ijj  hi.  I  Sleevens,  George,  literate- notice.  of,4«TJ  eh^M- 

in  ingeniona  thoiight  of.  17                                      lii.  inceniions  and  torgeiiei,  ih.  i  taii  boai  npoB 
Sentimental  biograpfiy.  ;«)                                          Cou,^  the  intninary.  48, 

Se™i,    diKo-eter  of    the   ]o)t    maniucripl  of  Mephein.  Robert,  one  of  the  enty  pnoCen.  ■» 

Oahleo.  J4>                                                                    SKTck,  JoKhlm,  JS                       ,  r          -.-, 

the,  406                                                              1  stoTie^  cliieHy  denied  from  the  Eatt,  41 

Seven  Sleepen,  memorable  fable  of  the.  34                  SIRels  name,  of  o..r,  it  C 

Seymour,  Wm.,  created  Dufce  of  KomeBcl,  and    Sluart,  Lidy  Arahtllj,  litetwy  iHKini  oC,  ]«s  i 

married  to  "  Lady  AtabeUa,"  j6j                              nuartied  in  Wm,  Seimoor,  Dnke  of  Somenet, 

ment,  J67  J  her  romantic  CKape  and  recaptBI^ 

name.^ 

«fi,sr,E'r„vs?. 

Sharp.  Otan.-ille,  hit  .mu.emen«,  .4 

Sharpe,  Dr.,  his    apology    for  Si.    Lewi.  Stnclev, 

SludenthPleanireinr,  t:  illiultioui  ana,  ib. 

Study,  on  Ihe  method,  of,  SOI 

Stnkeley,  Dr..  lileran'  blunder  of,  lai 
Mtlu.,li>rwriliogwith,lSc                          .    ^ 

44a. 

JSI  ;    vindicalion    of,    411  j     biogiaphic'f  and 

Soperuiiiou.  age.,  trial,  and  prooh  of  guilt  in,  «e 

r.-i-f 


ISDEX. 


581 


Swift,  Dean,  amiucmentt  of,  15 ;  ludicrous  trans- 

Ution  of,  I  at 
Sjragras,  a  poet  anterior  to  Homer,  9 
Sydenham,  the  translator  of  Plato,  bis  poverty,  13 
Syncsius,  amusements  of,  15 


Tablks  of  wood,  etc.,  writing  on,  i8j 

Tacitus,  copy  of,  discovered,  8 ;  censures  of,  10 ; 

works  of,  partly  Inst,  ai 
Talmud  of  the  Jews,  43 ;  a  collection  of  Jewish 

laws  and  traditions,  44,  45  ;  their  classitication 

and  order,  ib. 
Tasso,  poverty  of,  11;  an  ingenious  thought  of, 

a8  i  hterary  notices  of,  144,  1^5 
"Tatler,"  characteristic  iimplicity  of  the  title,  108 
"Taxation  no  tyranny,"  448;  historical   notices, 

449*  45^ 
Taylor,  Thomas,  a  professor  of  polytheism,  81 

Tea,  coffee,  and  chocolate,  introduction  of,  294 

Texnotamia,  con>edy  of,  19a 

Tbeolofpcal  style,  aoo 

Theatre,  history  of  the,  during  its  suppression,  a8o ; 

female  characters  personated  by  men,  a8i ;  per- 

secution  of  the,  a8i,  a8a 
Theatrical  representations,  origpn  of,  131 
Tbeofroy,  abbot  of  Bptemac,  on  the   relics  of 

saints,  90 
Thomas,  Mrs^  the  victim  of  her  belief  in  alchymy, 

106 
Tbncjrdidcs,  adTcrse  criticism  on,  10 
TlUeman,  a  Lutheran  minister,  abuse  of,  1 16 
Tlntoret,  Carraccio's  remark  on,  33 
Titles  of  tUtntrioiti,  Hithntu,  and  ExcelUnce,  66 ; 

a  book  of,  for  Spanish  kingn,  ih. ;  of  the  grand 

rignior,  ib. :  of  different  sovereigns,  67 
Titles  of  books,  loR ;  difficulties  attending,  ih. ; 

of  Oriental  authors,  ib. ;  of  Greek  writers,  ib. ; 

adopted  by  modem  (anatics,  109  j  obscurity  and 

absurdity  of,  ib. 
Titus,  Jewnh  tradition  of,  48 
Toleration,  strictures  on,  468;    abuse  of,   ib. ; 

historical  notices  of,  469  et  seq. 
Tom  o'  Bedlams,  a  race  of  tra\-elling  mendicants, 

•9a ;  sons  of,  393 
TomUns,  the  writing-master,  441 
Tonstall,  Bishop  of  London,  anecdote  of,  357 
Torquemada,  estabUshcs  the  Inquisition  in  Spain, 

63 
Torture,  confessions  extorted  by,  63,  64 
Tory,  a  political  nickname,  411 
Toulouse,  the  Inquisition  established  at,  6a 
Tower,  records  of  the,  threatened  with  destruc- 
tion, ao 
Trades,  songs  of,  aa8 
Tragic  actors,  93 
Translation,  ludicroiu  mistakes  in,  lai,  laa;  Ben 

Jonson  on,  36a 
Translators,  literary  notices  of,  149 
Travellers,  literary  compositions  of,  50 
Traveb  of  Rabbi  Benjamin  apocT>pbal,  51 
Trellon,  Claude,  a  poetical  soldier,  119 
Trevoux,  dictionary  of,  46a 
Trbtnm  Shandy,  tne  sermon  in,  140 
Tttdela,  Rabbi  Benjamin  of,  liis  literary  impos- 
tures, <i 
**  Turkish  Spy,"  the,  141 ;  Marani,  the  writer  of 
tbc,ib. 


Tusser,  pro^-erbs  arranged  by,  393 
Twelve  tables  of  the  Romans,  18  j 
Tycho  Brahe,  amusements  of,  i^^ 
T}'pes,  number  of,  in  a  printed  sheet,  31 

U 

UNivKRaALa,  application  of  the  term,  »$ 
Urban  Grandier,  persecution  of,  11 
Urceus,  Anthony,  melancholy  fate  of,  ao 
Usurers  of  the  I7th  century,  334 
Utopia  of  Sir  Thomas  More,  literary  controvert 
respecting,  lao 


Valkkiana,  literary  blunder  in  the,  lai 

Valerius,  a  Latin  writer,  8 

Van  Effen,  the  Dutch  writer.  385  n. 

Vanbrugh,  the  architect  of  Blenheim,  417;  his 
quarrel  with  the  Duchess  of  Marlborough,  418 ; 
pecuniary  difllcultics  encountered  by,  ib. ;  de- 
feats the  law  proceedings  of  the  Duchess  of 
Marlborough,  419 

Varillas,  the  critic,  litcrar)-  impostures  of,  50,  138 

Varro,  a  collector  of  portraits,  16  j  works  of,  partly 
lost,  aa 

Vasari's  Lives,  437 

Vaucanson,  his  ^nius  first  arose  from  accident, 

Vaugelas,  the  French  translator  of  Qumtus  Cur- 
tius,  la  ;  his  po\'erty,  ib. ;  his  translation,  ao8 

Vella,  Joseph,  a  literary  impostor,  51. 

Vellcius  Paterculus,  reproachful  criticisms  on,  10; 
works  of,  partly  lost,  21 

Vence,  first  newspaper  at,  58;  vocality  and 
melody  of  the  inhabitants,  145 

Verbal  critics,  acrimony  of,  118 

Vergil,  Polydore,  34a 

Verses  twisted  into  fantastic  forms,  no,  iii 

Vicars,  Thomas,  on  the  "  Madness  of  Astrologer^" 
106 

Vicars  of  Bray,  74 

Vida,  Jerome,  anecdote  of,  40 

Villegas,  the  Spanish  poet,  38 

VilKers,  George,  promotion  of,  179 

Violet,  Imes  on  the,  93 

Virgil,  adverse  criticisms  on,  9 ;  deficient  in  con- 
versation,  ao 

Virgilius,  Bisiiop  of  Saltzburg,  punishment  of,  10 

Virgin  Mar>',  Oldham's  satires  on,  76 ;  pretended 
letter  of,  137 ;  life  of  the,  ib. ;  worship  paid  to 
her  in  Spain,  ib. 

Virgmity,  a  favourite  subject  with  the  Fathers,  153 

Viviani's  house  at  Florence,  523 

Volpone,  nickname  of,  applied  to  the  Earl  of  God- 
win, 411 

Voltaire,  his  Henriade  partly  written  during  his 
imprisonment,  13,  14 ;  his  satire  on  dethroned 
monarchs,  68  ;  abuse  of  his  adversaries,  119 

Volume,  derivation  of,  186 

Vondel,  the  Dutch  Shakspeare,  11,  ijo;  poverty 
of,  II  * 

Vorstius,  the  Dutch'professor,  431 

W 

Waxefield,  Gilbert,  literary  blunders  of,  lao 
Walker,  Clement,  the  bitter  antagonist  of  the 
Rump,  iss 


Wdkn^  Koiiuil  oT  Ibe  pcncculcd  ckTgjr  of  the   WomMct,  Hnqnii  of,  h 

~      1*6  poTCiri '» 

ry  liliricallaiu  or,  ^88  Wonli,  butmy  of  new  o 


_t,  4Mi  hinJeMh3nJixntm-,448 

\  iittgalirLtks  of>  iVi  j  iLic  morals  of  the  pntp 

nupted  br.lb.i  fabe  repsrii.ibc  ttnui^n 

<bhip,  ciBtoni  of.  In  tokdil  tim^,  49 
wartoDiThomu,  HtennrbluntkTDf.  r» 

I  WJcquc^rt,  hi4  niJA  oD  "  AinbiauJnn  "  vtiltf 

WilCotd,  CipUiD.'litEnry  Jin)KK>lion  pnclbcd  o 

Wilkiu,  Bjbpp,  1  pmeulcJ  migiciu,  48J  i  t 

Winkdnun's  litL-my  compo-iiitni,  mj 

"Wlij,the,"«»ii, 

Wilts  Itti-nri,  diFiiuUllon  on,  lu  et  icq. ;  ca 


^'.%»«rT  0 

,  «9;   Ihdi 

»-,d»«. 

^'uA^.ttcE 

glW.po«,4&« 

■ylMJlitl, 

."JS^iJ^^n 

.M 

Kou.j™ 

1  of,  104 

•t 


8IRJ0HN  LUBBOCK'S  HUNDRED  BOOKS. 

Issued  on  the  10th  and  26th  of  each  Month. 
Crown  8vo,  Red  Cloth,  uncut  edges;  or  Blue  Cloth,  cut  edges. 

ORDER  OF  PUBLICATION. 

1.  HERODOTUS.      Literally   Translated   from  the 

Text  of  Baehr,  by  Henry  Gary,  M.A.     3s.  6d. 

2.  DARWIN'S  VOYAGE  OF  A  NATURALIST 

IN  H.M.S.  "BEAGLE."     as.  6d. 

3.  THE  MEDITATIONS  OF  MARCUS  AURE- 

LIUS.  Translated  from  the  Greek  by  Jeremy  GoLLiER.  is.6d. 

4.  THE  TEACHING  OF   EPICTETUS.     Trans- 

lated  from  the  Greek,  with  Introduction  and  Notes,  by  W,  T. 

ROLLESTON.       IS.  6d. 

5.  BACON'S    ESSAYS.     With   an    Introduction   by 

Henry  Morley,  LL.D.     is.  6d. 

6.  MILL'S  POLITICAL  ECONOMY.     3s.  6d. 

7.  CARLYLE'S  FRENCH  REVOLUTION.  3s.  6d. 

8.  SELF-HELP.     By  Samuel  Smiles.     6s. 

9.  WHITE'S   NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   SEL. 

BORNE.     Edited  by  Sir  William  Jardine,  Bart.    With 
Illustrations.     3s.  6d. 

0.  THE    PICKWICK     PAPERS.       By    Charles 

Dickens.     With  Illustrations  by  "  Phiz."    3s.  6d. 

1.  THE  SHI  KING:  the  Old  "Poetry  Classic"  of 

the  Chinese.  Translated  by  William  Jennings,  M.A.   3s.  6d. 

2.  HOMER'S    ILIAD   AND   ODYSSEY.     Trans- 
lated by  Alexander  Pope.     3s.  6d. 

3.  VIRGIL'S  ^NEID.     Translated  by  John  Dry- 
den.    IS.  6d. 

4.  MONTAIGNE'S  ESSAYS.     3s.  6d. 

5.  MILL'S  SYSTEM  OF  LOGIC.    3s.  6d. 

6.  LEWES'S   BIOGRAPHICAL   HISTORY    OF 

PHILOSOPHY.     3s.  6d.    . 

7.  THACKERAY'S  VANITY  FAIR.    3s.  6d. 

8.  THE   SHAH   NAMEH  OF   THE   PERSIAN 

POET  FIRDAUSl.     3s.  6d.  [over 

Iandon  :  GEORGE  ROUTLEDGB  AND  SONS,  Limited, 


SIR  JOHN  LUBBOCK'S  HUNDRED  BOOKS. 

lMU«d  on  the  10th  and  25th  of  o*ch  Month. 
Crown  8vo,  Rod  Cloth,  uncut  odgei  i  or  Bluo  Cloth,  cut  odgoc 

ORDER  OF  PUBLICATION. 
10.  CAPTAIN      COOK'S     THREE      VOYAGES 

ROUND  THE  WORLD.     3s.  fid. 
ja  GOLDSMITH'S    VICAR  OF   WAKEFIELD. 

IS.  fid. 
jl.  SCHILLER'S  WILLIAM  TELL.     is.  6d. 

22.  SALE'S  KORAN,     js.  6d. 

23.  CHARLES  KNIGHT'S  SHAKSPERE.    3s.  64 

24.  BOSWELL'S  LIFE  OF  DR.  JOHNSON.  3S.64 

25.  SCOTT'S  IVAN  HOE.    With  Steel  Plates.    3s.  6d. 

26.  THACKERAY'S  PENDENNIS.     5s. 

27.  THUCYDIDES.    Ti^nslated  by  William  Smith, 

D.D.     3>.  lid. 

28.  DAVID  COPPERFIELD.  By  Charles  Dickens. 

with  Illnstiaiions  and  Portrait.     3s.  fidj 

29.  BYRON'S  CHILDE  HAROLD.     2s. 

30.  THE    PLAYS   OF   ^SCHYLUS.      Translated 

by  Robert  Poiter.    as. 

31.  ADAM  SMITH'S   WEALTH   OF  NATIONS. 

3s.  fid. 

32.  CHAUCER'S  CANTERBURY  TALES.    3s.  6d. 

33.  GIBBON'S  DECLINE  AND  FALL  OF  THE 

ROMAN  EMPIRE,     a  vols.     7s. 

34.  THE    DIALOGUES   OF    PLATO.    Translated 

by  Henry  Carv,  M.A.     as. 

35.  DON    QUIXOTE.     By   Miguel  de  Cekvantes. 

Translated  by  Charles  Jarvis,  with  lUusIraiioiis  by  Sir  John 
Gilbert,  R.A.    3s.  fid. 

36.  SHERIDAN'S   PLAYS.     2s. 

37.  ROBINSON    CRUSOE.      Illustrated  by   J.   D. 

WA-reoN,  3S.  fid. 

38.  DRYDEN'S  POETICAL  WORKS.  3s.  6d. 

39.  PLUTARCH'S    LIVES.      Translated    by    John 

Langhorne,  M.D.,  and  William  Langhorne,  A.^L     3s.  fid. 

40.  THE  LAST  DAYS  OF  POMPEII.     By   Lord 

LvnoN.    3s.  fid. 

IxiNDOiti  GEORGE  ROUTLEIKIE  AND  SONS,  Limitid. 


»t 


ROUTLEDGE'S 

POETS  FOR  THE  PEOPLE 

62   TOZiUMBS. 

Crown  Svo,  Clothe  2/-  each.     Crown  Svo,  Paper  Covers^  1I6  each. 


Slia]EBp«re.    Edited  by  Charles  Knight,  with  Portrait  and  63  page  plates  by  Sir 

John  Gilbert.  R.A.    8.^2  pages. 
Longfellow'i  Poetical  Works.    Complete  Edition,  with  za6  Copyright  Poems. 
Scott'a  Poetleal  Works.    640  pages. 
Byron's  Poetical  Works.    752  pages. 
Bams's  Poetical  Works.    512  pages. 
Tne  IngOldsby  Legfends.    512  pages,  with  2a  Illustrations  from  Designs  by  Cruik 

SHANK  and  Leech. 
Homer's  Iliad  and  Odyssey.    Pope's  Translation. 
Moore's  Poetioal  Works.     With  Memoir  by  Charles  Kent. 
Bret  Harte's  Poetical  Works. 
Mrs.  Hemans'  Poetical  Works. 

Hood's  Poetical  Works,  Serious  and  Comla    528  pages. 
Shelley's  Poetical  Works.    With  Memoir  by  W.  B.  Scott. 
flhakspere  Gems :  Extracts,  specially  designed  for  Youth. 
Ck>wper's  Poetical  Works. 

Hilton's  Poetical  Works.    From  the  Text  of  Dr.  Newton. 
Sacred  Poems :  Deyotlonal  and  Horal. 
€lioioe  Poems  and  Lyrics.    Beautiful  pieces  from  130  Poets. 
Chancer's  Oanterlrary  tales. 
Book  of  British  nallads.    Edited  by  S.  C.  Hall. 
Holmes's  Poetical  Works. 
Lowell's  Poetical  Worlia 
Willis's  Poetical  Works. 

Marlowe's  Fanstns  and  Goethe's  Panst.    Complete. 
Poems.    By  Elizabeth  Barrett  Browning. 
Donhtfal  Plays  of  Shakspeare.    Edited  by  Hazlitt. 
Byron's  Don  Jnan. 
Lord  Lytton's  King  Arthur. 

'• The  New  limon. 

Dante  s  Divine  Ck)medy.    Longfellow's  Translation  with  Notes. 

Whittier's  Poetical  Works. 

Bryant's  Poetical  Works. 

CampbeU's  Poetical  Works. 

Ck>leridge's  Poetical  Worka 

Dodd  s  Beantlee  of  Shakspeara. 

Herberts  Poetical  Works. 

Keats'  Poetical  .Works. 

Poe's  Poetical  Worka 

Pope's  Poetical  Works. 

Wordsworth's  Poetical  Woiks. 

Schiller  and  Horace.    Translated  by  Lord  Lytton. 

PercsTs  Beliqnes  of  Ancient  English  Poetry. . 

Keble's  The  Christian  Tear. 

Virgil's  JBneid.    Translated  by  Dryden. 

Butler's  Hudlbras. 

HerriOk's  Poems. 

Oomic  Poets  of  the  Nineteenth  Century. 

Spenser's  Faerie  Qneene. 

Dryden's  Poetical  Works. 

Sonthoy's  Poetical  Works. 

The  Book  of  Familiar  Quotations. 

Poets'  Comer:  A  Manual  for  Students  in  English  Poetry. 

Sheridan  Xhowles'  Dramatlo  Woiks. 


ROUTLEDGE'S 

BOOKS  FOR  THE  PEOPLE 


Crown  %vo.  Cloth,  a/-  eath.     Crown  8zw,  Paper  Covers,  1/6  eaeh, 

MManlay'i  Em^  uid  Liy*  Ot  Anclant  Boms.  Complete  Edition.  914  pages. 
Tba  Bpactator.  Complete  Edilion,  icproducing  the  aiigtul  teiL  Edited  by  Prof. 
Cariyla'i  Fnneh  BevidnttML    Qntipleie  Edition.  [11.  Morlev.    941  pages. 

Sartor  Beuitu,  Herooa,  Uid  Haro  Tonhlp,  Put  and  rruont. 

OllTsr  Oromv«ll'a  Lattan  and  Spaaohaa. 

OailataiL's  Haiti  and  Storlas  of  t&e  Mill  PoMantrr,    Complete  EjiiUon. 

Anna  Boimuui'i  Vvw  Oookoy  Book.    635  pages.     (Cloth  limp,  is.) 

Cmden'i  Conooidantia  to  tlia  Old  and  Maw  TMlamanta. 

Wlie  Saylnge  of  tbe  Oraat  and  Oood. 

Book  ol  Hnmonr,  Wit,  and  Wiadom. 

Foze'a  Book  of  Xartyra.    Abtidged  from  Milnei's  Large  Edition. 

EoMmoii  Cmioe.     With  53  Plates  by  J.  D.  WatsoM. 

OtiUlTir'a  hiTaii  Into  aovaral  Bemota  Beglau  OE  tlia  World.    Swift. 

ATa1)lan  Hlsbta'  Bntartalnmenti. 

IdTentnraE  of  Bon  Qolxota.    Jarvis's  TranElaiion. 

SoatbaT'i  Ufa  of  HaUon. 

Joasphni.     Tranilaled  by  WhiSTon. 

Book  Of  Bplgiama.    W.  D.  Adams. 

Bnorani  PUsrlma  Ptoktom.    Ediied  b;  Georcb  Offob. 

Ufa  of  KaptOaon.    Charles  MACrARLAKE. 

Ooiloaltlaa  of  Uteratnra.    Isaac  D'Iskabu. 

Amenltlea  ot  Utaratura.  Do, 

HlweUuilaa  of  Utaramro.  Uj. 

BOBWaU'l  Ufa  ot  Dr,  Jobuon.     (CenienBiy  EdilioiL) 

me  Orba  of  Haaven.    O.  M.  MiTcii^.t.u 

Bogattkr**  Ooldeo  Treaani?, 

Tba  Braaktut  Table  Seriei.    By  O.  w.  Holmes. 

JEiop'a  Fablaa.     Illustrated  b;  UARRtsoH  Weib. 

MUman'i  Hlitory  of  the  Jawa. 

Lord  Lytton'H  Famphlali  and  Bketches. 

Tke  Warerlay  Aneodolei, 

Lard  LTtton'i  England  and  tlia  Ergliah. 


DrltlCBl  and  HlBtorical  EsuTa. 

The  Plckwlek  Fapen.    By  Charles  Dickens. 

PzlncipleB  of  Political  Bcoiiomy.    By  John  Stuabt  Mill. 

Foptdar  Aabononqr.    By  O.  M.  Mitchell. 

Plntareh'a  Uvea.    Lahciiorhe's  Translation. 

Bmarson'a  Worfei.    640  pages. 

LoagfallDW'a  Proae  Worki. 

Boicoe'i  Life  of  Leo  x.    o  voii. 

Ooldamlth'a  Completi  Warlm. 

Adam  Bmith'B  Wealth  of  faUoni. 

De  Foe's  Jonmal  of  the  Ftagne  Tear, 

Walton  and  Cotton's  Complete  Aneler, 

The  AdTantorea  of  Oil  Blaa. 

Motley'i  tUie  of  the  Dntdi  RepDhllc.    3  vols. 

Hapler*B  History  of  the  Penlnanlar  War,  IB0T-I8U.    3  vo's. 

WHlte'B  Hatnral  Hiitory  of  Belbome.    Edited  by  Sir  Will 

Bacon' ■  Essa;a. 

Charles  Lamb's  Complete  Works. 

Crabb'B  Rngii.h  Bynonymi  Explained.    640  pngcs. 


•1 


ROUTLEDGE'S  TWO-SHILLING  REWARD  BOOKS. 


131   VOZiUMZS. 


In  Crown  %vo.  Cloth,  LANDSCAPE  Design  in  Colours. 


Heroei  of  the  Worlcshop. 

EZtraordlaary  Men.    W.  Russelu 

Onlliver'i  TTayelB.    Dean  Swift. 

Capt.  Oook'i  Voyages.    C.  R.  Low. 

Andersen's  Fairy  Tales. 

Orimm's  (Brothers)  Fairy  Tales. 

Lamb's  Tales  firom  Shakspeare. 

Tales  of  a  Grandfather.    Scott. 

The  Boy's  Own  Book  of  Natural  His- 
tory.   400  Illus.    Rev.  J.  G.  Wood. 

Robinson  Crusoe.  53  Illustrations  by 
J.  D.  Watson. 

Swiss  Family  Robinson.  95  Illustrations. 

Sandford  and  Merton.   60  Illustrations. 

Bvenlngs  at  Home.  Dr.  Ajkin  and  Mrs. 
Barbauld. 

Don  Qnixote  for  Boys. 

Sir  Edward  Seaward's  Narrative  of  his 
Shipwreck.    Jank  Portek. 


BY  GRACE  AGUILAR. 

Women  of  IsraeL 

Home  Influence. 

The  Mother's  Recompense.    Sequel  to 

"  Home  Influence." 
The  Vale  of  Cedars. 
Woman's  Friendship. 
Home  Scenes  and  Heart  Studies. 

BY  MISS   WETHERELU 

The  Wide,  Wide  World. 

Melbourne  House. 

Queechy. 

Ellen  Montgomery's  Bookshelf.  Com- 
prising Mr.  Rutherford's  Chil- 
dren. Casper,  and  The  Christ- 
mas Stocking. 

The  Two  School  Olrls,  and  other  Talcs, 
Illustrating  the  Beatitudes. 

The  Old  Helmet. 

Sceptres  and  Crowns,  and  The  Flag  of 
Truce.    In  z  volume. 

The  GUen  Lnna  Family. 

BY  A.  J,  E.   WILSON. 

Beulah. 

Vashtl ;  or,  Until  Death  us  do  Part. 

St.  Elmo ;  or,  Saved  at  Last. 

Infellce. 

Macarla;  or.  Altars  of  Sacrlfloe. 

Inei :  A  Tale  ot  the  Alamo. 


Bunyan's  Pilgrim's  Progress.     With 
Illustrations  by  J.  D.  Watson. 

The  Arabian  Nights.  Hon.  Mrs.  Sugden. 

Marryat's  Children  of  the  New  Forest. 

Marryat's  Little  Savage. 

Robin  Hood's  Adventures. 

Famous  Ships.    W.  H.  D.  Adams. 

The  Flower  of  Christian    Chivalry. 
Mrs.  R.  W.  Lloyd. 

JBsop's  Fablea    1 14  Plates  by  Harrison 
Weir. 

Masterman  Ready.  Captain  Marryat. 

Eminent  Soldiers. 

W.  H.  Davenport  Adams. 

Eminent  Sailors.  Ditto. 

Dlgby  Heathcote.  W.  H.  G.  Kingston. 

Edgar  CUfton.    E.  J.  May. 

Louis'  School-days.    £.  ).  Mat. 


BY  MRS.   WHITNEY. 

Patience  Strong. 

The  Oayworthys. 

Balth  Oartney's  Girlhood.  • 

A  Summer  In  Leslie  Goldthwalte's  Life. 

B  Y  MISS  EDGE  WOR  TH. 

Popular  Tales,     t  Parent's  Assistant. 
Moral  Tales.        |  Qarly  Lessons. 

The  Lamplighter.    Miss  Cummins. 
Stepping  Heavenward,  and  Aunt  Jane's 

Hero.    E.  Prentiss. 
The  Prince  of  the  House  of  David. 

Rev.  J.  H.  INGRAHAM. 

The  Pillar  of  Fire.  Ditto. 

The  Throne  of  David.        Ditto. 
Uncle   Tom's    Cabin.      Mrs.    Stowe. 

With  Preface  by  the  Earl  of  Carlisle. 
Naomi;  or,  TheLast  Days  of  Jerusalem. 

Mrs.  Webb. 
Life  of  Queen  Victoria.  Barnett  Smith 
Barriers  Burned  Away.    £.  P.  Rob. 
Opening  a  Chestnut  Burr.     Ditto. 
What  Can  She  Do?  Ditto. 

Extraordinary  Women.    Russell. 
Eda  Morton.    M.  M.  Bell. 
The  Doctor's  Little  Daughter.    Eliza 

Meteyard. 
Children  of  Blessing.    ML^  Croft. 
Carol's  Little  Daughter. 
The  Gates  Ajar.    £.  S.  Phelps. 
Alone.    Marion  Harland. 
Helen  Mordaunt.    Mrs,  Webb. 


ROUTIEDGE'S  TWO-SHILUHG  REWARD  BOOKS. 


300Z£S. 

SOITABLB    FOR    SUNDAY    SCHOOL    PRIZKS. 


Tom  Qliti  *■ 

UtUa  ruhni  and  tbdr  Hi 

Ttme  PaopU. 

OiiiliUe't  CbtlitiuB. 


1M  flhAatanqiM  Oirli  • 
The  Poofcet  MMwnnL 

WlM  uut  Otharwlw. 
nia  Kliis'a  Dkogbtar. 


Intainiptod. 


Srter  Uad  yM  Ipaakliis. 
Tba  Kan  of  Uie  Hobm. 
BQtb  Sraklna'a  Orgaaaa. 


Habal  wrm ;  or,  Thoaa  Boya. 


Mis.  Bolouoii  flti>*th  TiftftWry  Oil 

Ftma  DUfarant  Standpoliita. 

A  Hew  ai>n  OB  tba  Fainllj  Trt*. 

FraOlaa. 

Sldnay  Hartln'i  Obzlitniaa. 

Tip  Lewta  and  BU  Laaap. 


By  UAKTHA  FINLEY. 

IS   OF   Books    fo«   Girls,    suitablb    ; 
School  Prizes. 


Hi]llda;a  at  B 

QlTlIUKNl 

WomRnhood. 
Hotbartiooil. 
CbUdran. 


I  Kaymonda. 
Eiiia  TaehtlnK. 
Blile'a  Vacattlon. 


Elala  at  Vlamada. 


By     THE    AUTHOR    OP    THE    "ELSIE"    BOOKS. 
A  Krw  Series  op  Juvrnilb  Books. 
MUdrod  KeltiL  I      imdnd'a  Haniad  Ufa. 

Hlldzad  and  Elale.  I      Mudiad  at  Homa. 

■Udrad  at  Koaelandi.  |      Wldrad'a  Boys  and  CHtIa 


GEORGE    ROUTLEDGE    AND    SONS,   Limited, 

LONDON,  MANCHESTER,  AND  NEW  YORK. 


ROUTLEDGE'S 

FLORIN    NOVELS. 

251  VOLUMES. 
Grovon  8vo,  Cloth,  Ss.  each. 


AINSWORTH,  W.  H. 
The  Towar  of  London. 
Old  St  Paul's. 
Windsor  Csstle. 
Miser's  Deughter. 
Star  Chamber. 
RiKtkwood, 
St  James'. 
Flitch  of  Bacon, 
Quy  Fawkea. 
Lancashire  Witches. 
Crtchton. 
Jack  ShappanL 
Spendthrift. 
Boscobel. 

Ovingdean  Orange. 
Mervyn  Clitheroe. 
Auriol. 

Preston  Fight 
Stanley  Brereton. 
Beau  Nash. 

tUSTEN,  Jam 

Pride  and  Prejudice. 
Sense  and  Sensibility. 
Mansfield  Park. 

Northanger  Abbey,  and  Per- 


VCKTON,  Henry. 
Valentine  Vox. 
Sylvester  Sound. 


COOPER,  Femmon. 

The  Deerstayer. 

The  Pathfinder. 

The  Last  of  the  Mohicans, 

The  Pioneers. 

The  Prairie. 

The  Red  Rover. 

The  Pilot 

The  Tv»o  Admirals. 

The  Waterwitch. 

The  Spy. 

The  Sea  Lions. 
..    Mites  WallingfoKl. 

Lionet  Lincoln. 

The  Headsman. 

Homeward  Bound. 

The  Crater  t  or,  Vulcan's  Peak. 

Wing  and  Wing. 

Jack  Tier. 

Satan  Btoa. 

The  Chain  bearer. 

The  Red  Skins. 

The  Heidenmauar, 

Precaution. 

The  Moniklns. 

The  Wept  of  Wish-ton-Wish. 

The  Ways  of  the  Hour, 

Mercedes  of  Castile. 

Afloat  and  Ashore. 

Wyandotte. 

Home  as  Found- 
Oak  Openings. 

The  Bravo. 


FLORIN  NOVELS,  Cloih—anhfmd. 


D/CKENS,  Charles. 

SkstchH  by  "  Boz."  ] 

Nicholas  Nickleby. 

0)iv«r  Twist. 

Barnabr  Rudgo- 

Old  Ourioshy  Shop. 

Do  m  bey  and  Son. 

Qrimaldl    th«     Clown,    with 

Crdikshank's  IIIutUatioDs. 
Martin  ChuzzlewiL' 
Pickwick  Papera. 
David    Copperfield.      (Cop;- 

ngU.) 
Pictures     from     Italy     and 

American  Notu. 


DLWfAS,  Ahxandrt. 

The  Three  Muaketeers. 
Twenty  Years  After. 
Monte  Crista 
Marguerite  de  Valois. 
Chicot,  the  Jester. 
Forty- five  Guardsmen. 
Taking  the  Bastile. 
The  Queen's  Necklace. 
The  Conspirators. 
The  Regent's  Daughter. 
Memoirs  of  a  Physician. 
The  Countess  de  Charny. 
The  Vicomte  de  Bragelonne, 
Vol.  I. 
VoL  2. 


FERRIER,  Afiss. 
Marriage, 
The  Inheritance. 
Destiny. 


FIELDING,  Henry. 
Tom  Jones. 
Joseph  Andrews. 
Amelia. 


GRANT,  /tunes. 

The  Romance  of  War. 

The  Aide  de  Camp. 

The  Scottish  Cavalier. 

Bolhwell. 

Philip  RoDe. 

Legends  of  the  Black  Watch. 

Jane  Seton. 

The  Yellow  Frigate 

LAWRENCE,  Geor^. 
Guy  Livingstone. 


LEVER,  Charles. 
Harry  Lorrequer, 
Charles  O'Malley. 
Jack  Hinton. 
Arthur  O'Leary, 
Con  Cregan. 
Horace  Templeton. 

LOVER,  Samuel. 
Handy  Andy. 
Rory  O'More. 

L  YTTON,  Lord. 

Edition. 

Pel  ham. 

Paul  CIlfTord. 

Eugene  Aram. 

Last  Days  of  Pompeii. 

Rienzi. 

Ernest  Malt  ravers. 

Alicei  or.  The  M^ieries. 

Night  and  Morning. 

Disowned. 

Godolphin. 

Last  of  the  Barons. 

Leila;  Pilgrims  of  the  Rhine. 


"FLORIN  NOVELS,  Cloth- 

iYTTON,  Loid — cenliniad. 
Falkland ;  Ziccl. 
Zanoni. 
The  Caxtons. 
Harold. 
Lucretia. 

The  Coming  Race. 
A  Strange  Story. 
Kenetm  Chillingly. 
Pauianias :  and  The  Haunted 

and  the  Haunters. 
My  Novel,  Vol. 


-  Vol.  a 


What  will  He  Do  with  It  ?  Vol.  i 

Vol.  I. 

The  Parisians,  Vol.  I. 
Vol.  J. 

MARRYAT,  Captain. 
Frank  Mi  Id  may. 
Midshipman  Easy. 
Phantom  Ship. 
Pelor  Simple. 
The  King's  Own. 
Newton  Fo rater. 
Jacob  Faithful. 
The  Pacha  of  Many  Tales. 
Japhet  In  Search  of  a  Father. 
Dog  Ftend. 
Poacher. 
Percival  Keene. 
Monsieur  Violet. 
Raliiin,  the  Reefer. 
Valerie. 

Pirate  t  Three  Cutteri. 
Poor  Jack. 
Masterman  Ready. 
Otta  Podrida. 
Seitlera  in  Canada. 
The    Mission;    or,    Scenes    in 

Africa. 

The  Privaleersman. 
Children  of  the  New  Forest. 
The  Little  Savage. 

NEALE,  IV.  /.  N. 

The  Pride  of  the  Mess. 


continued. 
FORTER,  Jan 


RADCUFFE,  Mrs. 

The  Romance  of  the  Forest. 
The  Mysteries  of  Udolpho. 

REID,  Cafitaiii  Mayue. 
The  Scalp  Hunters. 
The  Rifle  Rangers. 
The  War  Trail. 
The  White  Chief. 
The  Quadroon 
The  Willie  Gauntlet. 
Lost  Lenore. 
The  Hunter's  Feast 
The  Boy  Slaves. 
The  Cliff  Climbers, 
The  Giraffe  Hunters. 
The  Ocean  Waifs. 
.The  Half  Blood. 
The  Wild  Huntress. 
The  Tiger  Hunter. 
The  White  Squaw. 
The  Headless  Horseman. 
The  Guerilla  Chief. 
The  Maroon. 
Wood  Rangers. 
The  Desert  Home. 
The  Bush  Boys. 
The  Piant  Hunters. 
The  Boy  Hunters. 

RICHARDSON,  Samuel. 
Clarissa  Harlowe 

Sir  Charles  Grand i son, 

SCOTT,  .Michaet. 

Tom  Cringle's  Log. 

The  Cruise  of  the  "  Midge." 


FLORIN  NOVELS,  C\oth—a/itifiueJ. 


SCOTT,  Sir  WaiUr. 

With  etecl  FnmtUpieca  ti 

Waverley. 

Quy  Mannertng. 

Old  Mortality. 

Heart  of  Midlothi 

Rob  Roy. 

IvanhoQ. 

The  Antiquary. 

Bride  of  Lami 

Black  Dwarf,  and  Legend  of 

Montrose. 
The  Monastery. 
The  Abbot. 
Ken  II  worth. 
The  Pirate. 
Fortunes  of  Nigel. 
Peveril  of  the  Peak. 
Quentin  Durward. 
St.  Ronan's  Well. 
Redgaunttet. 
Betrothed, 

Widow. 
The      Talisman,      and     1 

Drovers. 
Woodstock. 

The  Fair  Maid  of  Perth. 
Anne  of  Geierstcin. 
Count  Robert  of  Paris. 
The  Surgeon's  Daughter. 

SilQLLETT. 

Roderick  Random. 

Humphry  Clinker. 

Peregrine  Pickle. 
SUE,  Kusent. 

Wandering  Jew. 

Mysteries  of  Paris. 

THACKERAY,   JI.  it. 
Vanity  Fair. 


Highlar 


WARREN,  Samuel. 

Ten  Thousand  a  Year. 

The  Diary  of  a  late  Physician. 

YATES,  Edmund. 
Nobody's  Fortune. 
Black  Sheep. 
Kissing  the  Rod. 

BY  VARIOUS  AUTHORS. 

Gideon  Qiles  the  Roper. 

Thomas  Mii.lib, 
The  Clock  maker. 

Scottish  Chiefs  Jake  Postib. 
The  Prairie  Bird. 

Hon.  C.  A.  MUSRAY. 
Humorous  American  Gems. 
Arthur  Bonnicastle. 

J.  G.  Holland. 
Marjorie  Daw.    T.B  Aldrich. 
Nick  of  the  Woods. 
Salathiel.  Dr.  CKOLY. 

tlane  Eyre. 

CUARLOTTB  BSONTfe. 

Land  and  Sea  Tales. 

•'TheOliiS«ilo«." 
The  Green  Hand.G.  CitrrLEs. 
Elsie  Venner.  O  W,  HoLSies. 
Shirley.  Charlotte  Bbontk. 
The  Greatest  Plague  of  Life. 
Henrv  Mavhrw. 
The  Night  Side  of  Nature. 

Mn,  CKOWC 
Wuthering  Heights,  and  Agnee 
Grey.  E,  S:  A  Brontr. 

Alton  Locke. 

Charles  Kingslky. 
Whitefriars. 
The  Family  Feud. 

Thou  AS  Coofsr. 


■>. 


THE  BORROWER  WILL  BE  CHARGED 
AN  OVERDUE  FEE  JF  THIS  BOOK  IS 
NOT  RETURNED  TO  THE  LIBRARY  ON 
on  BEFORE  THE  LAST  DATE  STAMPED 
BELOW.  NON-RECEIPT  OF  OVERDUE 
NOTICES  DOES  NOT  EXEMPT  THE 
BORROWER  FROM  OVERDUE  FEES. 


