Google 


This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world’s books discoverable online. 


It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that’s often difficult to discover. 


Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book’s long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 


Usage guidelines 


Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 


We also ask that you: 


+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 


+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google’s system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 


+ Maintain attribution The Google “watermark” you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 


+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can’t offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book’s appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 


About Google Book Search 


Google’s mission is to organize the world’s information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world’s books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 


at{http: //books.google.com 





From the library of 
Dr. Edward Lincoln Williamson 








NOTE TO THE READER 
FRAGILE 


THE PAPER IN THIS VOLUME IS BRITTLE 
PLEASF. HANDLE WITH CARS 


[a 








SP otetiess, ore Cotfoer 


NEW YORK: 
CHARLES SOCRIBNER. 


1856. 





CYCLOPEDIA 


OF 


AMERICAN LITERATURE; 


SALHRACING 
PERSONAL AND CRITICAL NOTICES OF AUTHORS, 
AND SELECTIONS FROM THEIR WRITINGS, 
FROM THE EARLIEST PERIOD TO THE PRESENT DAY- 


wre 


PORTRAITS, AUTOGRAPHS, AND OTHER ILLUSTRATIONS. 


ar 


EVERT A. DUYCKINCK AND GEORGE L. DUYOKINCK. 


IN TWO VOLUMES. 
VOL. I. 


NEW YORK: 
CHARLES SOCRIBNER. 


1856. 


431357 


Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1855, 
BY CHARLES SCRIBNER, 
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York. 


wal OC; 10¢¢ fe tO NG 











R CRAIGHEAD, 
ELBOTROTYPER AND GTERBOTTPEA, 
58 Vesey Stred, N.Y 


© a. ALVORD, Printer. 


CONTENTS 


Pas 


JAMES KIRKE PAULDING 
a ora Lover, from the “Lay “of the Sexttish 
An fecoing Walk in Virginia, from the “Letters 
from the South.’ 
A Trio of Erenchmes: 
Character on. 
The Man that wanted but One Thing, the Man that 


wanted Everything. and the Man thet wanted 
Nothing. 
JOSEPH STORY . . . . ee ee 
Fragments, 
WASHINGTON ALLSTON. 1. 0° eee 


Irving's Reminiscences of Allston. 
America to Great Britain. 
‘Winter, from the ~3ylphs of the Seasons.” 


Borate 
Invention im Art in Ostade and Bsphael, from the 
on Art” 
JOSEPH T. BUCKINGHAM. .- . . - 
MOSES STUART . . .- Ry Leh 


WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING 
Military Genias from the ~ Essay on Napoleon.” 
Bellzion in Literature. from tbe = Emay oa Feneloa.” 


HENEY T. FARMER = 
The Woes of Modern Greece’ s Prize Poem. 


TIMOTHY FLINT o Ce do th Se 
The Shores of the Chin. 





HENRY J. FINN . PR ae Ss 
Pasaage from from the Comic Axseal 


DANIEL WEBSTER 

Moni Foree of Prisie Opinion, from tbe Speech on 
the Rewsiacna Goer. 

Tre Uaion—Per of smesert Speech on Foot's 
Beso ation in Beye >. Hare 

The se ot 10 Wiste—tae Foal of Kapp for the 
Marder of Ware 

From the Avivew afier ae Sew York Historical 
Svetety. 1502. 

Leterr on cae Marziag, 2 Mra J. W. Paige. 


JOHN C. CALRGOTS 
bare 





pres ve aes eu the Fores | 





BAL im che Scam. Fesriary. 


ROBERT Wilsa a ee ee 
Senterees fom * itfeecen~ 

BESEY WHEATSS - - - - . | . 

CHARLES J 'NGtaeAL «we 
Bea-mecce Tsmilers 2 Samer, from *Iechi- 





im Attrems iethen “tm Sew Ecz'end So- 
diety of Menton 
THOMAS HA27 3275. 
Cearatter_ of Natvenies Mes “oem te *Thiny 
Years Tew 


HESSY a + 52320085 ey a a 


10 


13 


Res 


OF VOLUME II. 


The Stout Gentleman, from “ Bracebridge Fall.” 
The Broken Heart, from the “Sketch Book.” 
Description of the powerfal Army smaoinbied at the 
Ghy of New Amsterdam, from “ Kalckerbocker’s 
jew York.” 


WILLIAM IRVING 
‘Vision of Two Sisters in « Ball Room. 


DICKINSON COLLEGE. . . . .. . 


JAMES T. ACSTIN . 4 at Ne 
Passages from the Life of Elbridge Gerry. 
SAMUEL L. KNAPP . . . . . . 


LEVI FRISBIE. . . . «. «© « © 
A Castle in the Afr. 


JOSEPH 8. BUCKMINSTER. . . . . . 
DAVID HOFFMAN 





Fame sod, Aathorship, from the Introduction to 
| GULIAN C. VERPLANCK . . . . . 
| ‘The Mother and the Sebvolmester. 
; SAMUEL WOODWORTH . . «ws Ce 
‘Antomnal 
‘The Pride of the Valley. 
| a eee 
| 4OHS PIERPO 2 
| 7OMTriiatious of the Muse, fruea “Airs of Paletins.~ 
As jor ian Gotae. 
Ciateantal Ode 
MM. NOAH eh res sd 
: Letter to William Dunlap. Eaqg. ” 
FRANKLIN COLLEGE.GA. 2 www. 
‘$7. JOHNS COLLEGE, MD. ww wl; 
C8 BAFINESQCE . a cba f 
DASIEL DEAKE-SESJAMIN DEAKE. |, 
SICHOLAS BIDDLE. . . ww st 
GARDISEESPEISG © 2 2. 1. 
‘A Popular Preacher. 
ASDEEWS NORTOS ee eee 
Sores after a Sener Sherwer. 
Oe Lieening 3 Cricket 
Pane Dirge 
JOHS ENGLAND. . 2. . ah 
THOMAS SMITH GEIMEE. . . . . . 
Pamess fron a Poarh of Js!y On-air. 
Pages Roan Restees 72 4 Arerves Eéaes- 


SAMTEL PAEWAE JAgvis “i 


WHLLIiM CRArTs . 
Moaody oa the inata sf Incas 


raon 
JONN SANDERSON a ae om tan se 
‘The Parisian * Pension.” 
SELLECK OSBORN. . . . «. « ss 
“Now England. 
WASHINGTON IRVING . . . . . . & 
The Dall Lecture. 


ze 


KE 








vi CONTENTS. 
paar PrAGe 
Tih Woes irom’ * Mis. W WE UME MOREY ng, Si ie jes vo Gm e = 
Bo Plorre, the French petra Tadian Adventure, from 
Y DANA. - + - ) "the Dark Maid of 
bee Wisin, Sees gk 
Terai trom the Tasband and Wits Grave” HENRY ROWE SCHOOLCRAFT 1 
plana The Whito Stone Canoo—from the * Tales of a Wig- 
Influones of Home, from the Paper on Domostle Life. WILLIAMS COLLEGE , . , < anal 
RICHARD DABNEY . . . . . ~ + 9 | EDWARD HiToHocookK. . . . . , . 1% 
Tramlation from Sappho, WENEY QOAREY. Sw. kw. 
pouty pod Ae HENRY COOSWELL KNIGHT. . . 0. . 18 
Au Epigmun, imitated from Archins, The Country Oven. 
NATHANIEL WH, CARTER. . «+ 100" ne KNIGHT 
IBAAO BARBY .°. . . . . » . 10 | newamene . ak in 
pea | ee 
‘Pamuges from Sporting Papers. JOHN NEAL pea ks 101 
SAMUEL JACKSON GARDNER. . . . . 108 ‘A War Bong ofthe Revituton, 
WILLIAM 1. GRAYSON, oe 2 oo. 38.| opyne newer aad 
A Sunday Scone at the South. | Study, frou bis Phi Bots Kappa Address in 1830. 
UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA . . . 1% JARED SPARKS . . . . - 16 
WILLIAM JAY . . . . . « « «10 EDWARD ROBINSON. . | | te 
RICHARD HENRY WILDE |. 0. 1 «+ 108 THERESE BOBINSON 
translated fram Tasso. EDWARD EVERETT . . . . . . . 10 
oie ‘Bird. | emapertiies Se EN Dele Ei Poem, 
Benefits to America of One National Literature. 
Aue cs, Peg COOPER aot thee Tho Men and Deeds of the Revolution, 
from =the Pitot HENRY tun wise WAH Te—IOUR WARE 
~ WILLIAM WARE me 
ie roa the aie | Sonnet on the Completion af Noyes's Trauslation of 
JAMES A. HILLHOUSE =... ee ae as tee a 
Lop fe Zenoblo, Fausta, und Piso, from * Zenobia.” 
ieee tidied hae Repese trun the Lectures oo Allston” 
The er er | CAROLINE oLacay . hegre 
Massed Uitseare ts a Nepablions Gavecumeat ‘9 the Ureulines. 
JOHN W. FRANCIS...) . , «291 | CAROLINE H. GLOVER 
Christopher Colles, Spring Time. 
BEE Owe aE o otaes” = 2 « 125 oo leh ia facs Gea 1s1 
comprebensibility fn 4 
Tos Kalnbaes rang ta Hew aglend, Age re 
BARAH J. HALE . . . . . . « . 26 WILLIAM CULLEN BRYANT . . . . . 188 
It Snows. Drought. 
JOB DURFEE - ya gy ot pr 
‘Roger Williams in the Forest. Agee 
LEI Wi BS cork oy) sais ity NS ee ae Death of the Flowers. 
‘Means and Motives in American Edueation, ' en rc 
SAMUEL 1. TURNER. . ts ci ae Sang of Marion's Men. 
THE UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT. . . . 19 ‘The Land of Dreams, 
CHARLES SPRAGUE, = 12 | Gorm Binicking in South Caroling, from tho * 
reelted’at tie Opentig of the Park ele ina; froma she Letters 
at JOUN HOWARD BRYANT 
pee ares ae Ome | Lpes on finding « Fountain in a secluded part of 
The ‘Worshippers, JOHN D, GODMAN = le - 10H 
CHARLES JAMES SPRAGUE Pine Fo 
‘The Empty House, BOWDOIN COLLEGE . . . . . « . 198 
LYDIA H. SIGOURNEY =. . « . « « TA-UNION COLLEGE , uglier . 18 
(ptian Nexen, JOHN E. HOLBROOK. , is . 197 
Jamestown Church, MARIA BROOKS ‘i Pe Se 
hs ay Ble br Egla Tacing ie Grove of Aes, tom 20 
JONATHAN MAYHEW WAINWEIGHT, . . 139 Pein Sen, os = Zi” 
EDWIN C. HOLLAND. , ares, Pra ai 
The Pillar of Glory. EPH RODMAN DRAKE. |... . gi 
ettatS MO TIMEOD. » 5» © pe 0 10 Femen Heer “the Culprit Foy.” 
HENRY Theo 1 ge eae 
topo tate ope ; To the Defenders of New Orleans, 
JOHN NOWAED PAYNE ©... | Brome a 
—- Home, Sweet Home, Ouwhtac : 
ews ie. ‘To Croaker, Junior, = 
‘Tomb of Gening, ‘The American Flag“ 


CONTENTS. 


FITZ GREENE HALLECK . oa aE 


Domestic Happiness, from “the Croakers,’ 


Bone, from * 
Gn the Deoth of Joseph Rodman Drake. 
Maren Boszari, 

‘A Poet's Daughter. 

Connecticut. 


JAMES G. PERCIVAL eee ae te: 
‘The Spirit of Poetry, from “Clio.” 
A Platonic Becchanal Song. 
‘The Serenade. 
Tu Seneca Lake. 
‘The Graves of the Patriots. 


DANIEL: E PIERCE THOMPSON . 
‘School-Committee-Man and s Lawsuit, ” 


wines B. SPRAGUE . . . .. « 


JOHN P. KENNEDY . oy gibi es RL ee 
Deseription of Swallow Barn. 
Pursuits of a Philosopher. 

JOHN GORHAM PALFREY . . . . . 
Religion: Opportunities of Age. 

SARAH PALFREY 
Passage from * Manhood.” 

HORACE MANN. 2 
Health and Temperance, from “Thoughts for a 
‘Young Man.” 

GEORGE BUSH. . 1 ww wee 


JOHN ne G BRAINARD . . . . . 
To ter of a Friend. 
On Go anecticut River. 
Salmon River. 
‘The Black Fox of Salmon Blver. 
An Sea Bird's Song. 
Btanzas. 


GEORGE TICKNOR. Pa 
. The Author's Key-note to Spanish Literature. 
bir sree uu Love Belled, from m the Romancero of Pedro 
Hymn on the Ascension, from the Spanish of Luis de 
n. 
Don Quixote. 
La Dama Duende of Calderon. 
WILLIAM H. PRESCOTT 
The Ketarn of Columbus after his ‘First Voyage, 
from foe! History of Ferdinand and Isabella. 5 
Y Queen Isabella, from the same. 
Death of Montezuma, from the Conquest. of Mexico, 
Moutezuma’s Way of Life, from 
CHARLES FOLLEN 
seller's Love of Liberty, from the Lectures on 
MES. FOLLEN. 
On the Death of a Beautifal Girl. 
CALVIN COLTON—WALTER COLTON . . . 
z 
HUGH SWINTON LEGARE. . . . . . 
‘Characteristies of Lord Byron. 
DAVID J. MCORD—LOUISA 8. MCORD 
The Voice of Years, 
Corvelia and Gracchus. Act IIL, Scene 1. 
HENRY JUNIUS NOTT eo oe 
Pawage from “ Thomas Singularity.” 
STEPHEN OLIN. . . . . . « 
KATHARINE AUGUSTA WARE. . . . . 
Vowe of the Seasons. 


NATHANIEL GREENE. . . . . . 
ROBERT 8 COFFIN | ae ee 
Pareges from the “ Boston Bard.” 


NL FROTHINGHAM. . .... . 


‘The McLean Asylum, Somerville, Mase. 


ROBERT WALN |. Bh. adhanal Sa 
“ American Bards.” 
Busting Sony Song. 


WILLIAM A. MUHLENBERG . . . . . 
‘The 167th Hymn. 


SAMUEL H. DICKSON. =. . . 1. 

ines. 

Old Age and Death, from the 8 
ge gn b, Easays on Life, Sleep, 


2123 


224 


233 


25 





PAaR | 
B MDONALD CLARKE eR! 


Btanzas on the Death of Brainard. 

On seeing « Young Girl look very wishfelly into the 
Street induw of Miss ——'s Boardiug 
Bchool, fa Broadway. 

Sunday In Sumner. 


Tancs 8TABE CLASON. Pe ae 
eon, from the Don Juan. 
ons A Addis Emmet. 


JOUN HUGHES . . 2. we. 
FRANCIS L. HAWKS 
for Union of the Revolutionary Fathers and 
tatesme! 
‘To an Aged and vory Cheerful Christian Lady. 
ALBERT BARNES. . . «ww ee 


WILLIAM TUDOR . oo 
The Elysian Fields, from “ Gebel Telr.” 


ROBERT O.8ANDS . ww ww ee 
Hoboken. 
Proem to Yamoyden. 
‘A Monody made on the late Mr. Samuel Patch, by an 
Admirer of the Ba 
‘The Dead of 1883. 


GRENVILLE MELLEN. . . . . . . 
The Bridal. 


+ 264 


271 


PROSPER M. WETMORE . . . . . . 
Painting. 
JAMES LAWON ee 
e Approach of Axe, 
gone, Andrew Jackson.” 
Bong. 
WILLIAM BOURNE OLIVER PEABODY OLIVER 
WILLIAM BOURNE PEABODY ; 


Monadnock. 
“Man givoth up the Ghost, and where is le!” 


LUCIUS M. SARGENT. . . Ba faa 

WILLIAM B WALTER. 2 0. 0. 0. ee 
Mourner of the Last Hope. 

F. W. P. GREENWOOD eee 
Opportunities of Winter for Instruction. 


NN a og cigsep Site? 
‘axeage from Speech on the mn Question. 
Description of the New ide Orpen Climate, 

‘The Statesmanship of Daniel Webster. 
‘The Consolations of Literature. 


CONNEC TIOUT ACADENY) OF ARTS AND 8CI- 


GEORGE W. DOANE . ee 
On a very old Wedding Bing. 
Evening. 
CALEB CUSHING . . . . 2. . ee 
THEODORE SENG WICK—C a eite M. SEDG- 
WICK—THEODORE 8EDOW! 
The Retcue of Everell by Magawisca, from “Hope 


‘The Shakers at Hancock, from “ Redwood.” 


HANNAH F. LEE. . 2. . s. . ew 


GEORGE WOOD . 
The Circle of Financlor, from “ Peter SchiemibL.” 


HENRY CARY omen et 
‘Do not Strain your Punch 
On Perception. 


201 


21 


88 


* FRANCIS LIEBER . 





‘ ROBERT GEEENHOW . . 0... 


‘The Me Gentlamaniy Character in Politics and Instita- 
Hoos, from the Address on the Character of the 
Gentleman. 


‘The Ship Canal, from the Atlantic to the Pacific. 


: GEORGE BANCROFT . 
Gonna vn_of John Locke and William Penn, © 
's Defeat, 17: 
Bont ‘Tife in Enea 
‘The Boston Maseacre, 
Study of the Infiaite, rom the New York Historical 
Bocjety Address, 1854. 


84 





. 81 


8. G. Sh Al er ee 
Good Ni . 


GEORGE HILL 


+ Af Meditation at Athens, from “the Bains of Athens.” ” 
Liberty 


Ly 











CONTENTS. 
Pace 
LLO ‘EPTIEN! 419 | JOHN GREENLEAF WHITTIER . . | - 
7orThe Haatloade at Calre, trem Talent of Travel ii ‘The New Wife and the Old 
"Herp ‘ 
lest 
a ee Oa 
Couservatiam and Reform. me VFENNO HOFFMAN © 0. 
MATTHEW F MAURY. 2 
‘Law of Compensation in the Atmosphere. ” Ce aa 
MAN co on we ae a 3 Rio Bravo—a Mexican Lament. 
we geadtade to Ged, | ‘The Man in the Reservoir,  Fantaste Pies. 
WILLIAM ER WILLIAMB ©.’ .- @5 | LUCRETIA MARIA AND MARGARET MILLER 
‘An Age of Passion. 
WILLIAM GILMORE BIS ww . ar "On the the Death af Robt 
‘The Bard. 1 
Ak. Biesings on Children. ee : the Wide World ts Drear. 
‘The Rattlesnake, from “the Yemacsee.’ Kindar Borla! Service, Versifed. 
JAMES H. HAMMOND... .- - - 488, Tomy Mother at Christmas. 
Intelleetual Power. PEMMA GQ EMBURY . 6. 1 1. 
EET M. Cl ” ee 
bese a Miser Oanechon | Liner eugrested by the Moravian Burial Ground at 
They are passing awa tcp petilebem: 
The Death of Juper, an store Ballad 4 | __ OI Teli me not of Lofty Fate. 
WILLIAM A. CARRUTHERS ee L 
‘A Kitehen Fireside in the Old Dominion. | CAROLINE LEE BENTZ a 
JAMES OTIS ROCKWELL. . . . .. OT | ose rerew WHITMAN 
Epiing. jest of the Soul, from “the Hours of Life. 
GEORGE LUNT ee ee) ‘he Trailing Arbutns. 
Memory snd Hope, A Still Day in Autumn. 
NATHANTEL PARKER WILLI8B. . . . . 488! Bho blooms no moro. 
The Belfry Pigeon. ag, AS REED . P 
‘The Annoyer. Passage from the Tntroduction to the “ Lectares on 
Love in a Cottage. English Literature.” 
geet empanionsip af the Bea in the Study of Lite 
Art ce Gray | lone ol xea in ra 
Luttr to tho Unieovwa Purchaser and Next Occn- ee ¥ 
pant of Gloschary. aunt STILLMAN HILLARD. a 
HENRY WADSWORTH LONGFELLOW . . . 48 | Ruins in Rome, from * Six Monthe in Ttaly.” 
A Psalm of Life. The Picturesque in Rome, from the same. 
Footsteps of Angels. HUGH MOORE 
\f Breton Old Winter fs Coming, * 
‘Balu in Summer. Bpring is Coming: 
Resignation. B. B_ THATCHER . . . . . . . . 
Lad Od Sek on the Site, perk: The Last Request. 
metery at New) 
Beenery of the Misslcatp i, fro * Evangeline.” Belo F.GOULD . 2. 1 - we ee 
Pic-aic at Roaring Brook, from “Kavanagh” me dah 
SAMUEL LONGFELLOW It Snows. 
Evening Walk by the Bay. The Veteran and the Child. 
HENRY WILLIAM HERBERT. . . .  . 450! Hymn of the Reapers. 
‘The Last Bear on the Hilla of Warwick. i PARK BENJAMIN. . . . . . ., 
GEORGE B.CHEEVER. . . . . . . 458! The Departed. 
Pedestrianism in Switzerland. Indolence. 
Etements of the Swiss Landscape. Bport. 
youag eke . 45 8TEPHEN GREENLEAF BULFINCH .. 
THOMAS ABD: Lines on visiting Tallulah Falls, Georgia, 
JOSEPTI OC. NEAL . 46 | ROBERT CHARLES WINTHROP Bas 
Undeveloped Geninne sp Passce in the Life of P. Pil- ‘ epee between Engine 2d Amertea, 
ae we noticing és Visit of Cicero to the Grave of Archimedes 
AR 7 . . . . . . 
‘Washington and Hamilton. ee 
‘The Duel of Hamilton and Burr. it stents from a Steeple, 
W.S W RUSCHENBERGER . . . . . 48! OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES . . . . 
JONATHAN LAWRENCE, Jn 2. ww. 8 Od Tonics 
Seas MG he Churchyard at Cambridge. 
CORNELIUS CONWAY FELTON... . 468 L'Ineonnue. 
Bome and Greece in America ee “ 
ELIZABETH MARGARET CHANDLER . . . 465: Evening by a Tallar. 
John Woolman. ; ‘Lending » Punch Bowl 
LAUGHTON O8BORNE. rn) ‘he Sigel’ Vision 
Sonnet—the Reproach of Venus,” BRANT MAYER eee or 
To Juvenal. Literary Influences in Ameries, 
many 8 pag rik, a | SAMUEL TYLER 2. rar d 
Chapter from the Sleep Rider. " ~ "~~  * GEORGE BURG Ot sone 
J0nN W. GOULD 
ALBERT PIKE . oe teh tity agar 6%, 
‘Man Overboard. Hymn to Ores 
ASAGREENE ©. © 1 0. 6... 10) Farewell to New England, 
Petst Punk ADRIAN ROUQUETTE. . . . . . 
WILLIAM D. GALLAGHER. .w . . Cs 471 | ~ Somvenirde Kentucky. 
August. 3 Nook. 
a | To Nature, my Mother. 


& & 


38 


oi 





mi . CONTENTS. 











race racn 
THOMAS BUCHANAN READ . . . . . 19 | RICHARD HENRY STODDAED. . . . . TIT 
The Closing Scene, Autumn. 
Pennayivauia, from “The New Pastoral”, ‘The Two 
‘The Village Chureb, from the sine, WOLIAM ALLEN BUTLER . . . . . Ti8 
FREDERIC 8. COZZENS_. Bae ae ie a 
4 Buuker Hill—an Old Time Ballad. | JOH Ie McOQNNE NEL. vs pint G +. 79 
rn Pol ret Growth.” 
GEORGE WILLIAM CURTIS . eT chabed “Alleghaniea, 
Under the Palins froin the “Nile Notes” I ene rie eae 
FRANCIS PAREMAN . . © 0... 100 |" “Amy. Pere ty, Peay) Ss . 
= | AUGUSTUS JULIAN REQUIER. . . , . 730 
ERASTUS W. ELLSWORTH. . . . .« . 710! Ode toBhakspearo, 
‘What is the Use? PAUL, HAYNE. - - . + . 7 
WILLIAM W. CALDWELL. . . . . . 119 { ane 
"| Robin's Come. | A Portrait. 
‘What Saith the Fountain? HAMILTON COLLEGE, NEW YORK . . , 723 
JOHN R_ THOMPSON . + «© « 113 |)TIE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA. . .. 125 
The Window panos at Brandon, ° TRINITY COLLEGE, CONN. . 738 
Benedicite, THE UNIVERSITY OF THE CITY OF NEW york T88 
GEORGE H. BOKER 3° + 4] TIME UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN. . . . 785 
abe aepalgs _ Alda, from “Galaynoe np | THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE . «0... 187 
Bae 7 tt tt + + 8) aug pMITHEONIAN INSTITUTION. . 0. . Tar 
Kilimandjaro, THE ASTOR LIBRARY. . . . . . . 740 


xiv 


Portrait and Autograph of Henry 


Auto; Ih of Geo 8. Hillard | 

oe ores F. Gould . 
Pay Benjamin. 

Portrait and Autograph of Robert 
C. Winthrop... 

‘The Old Manse. 

Portrait and Autograph of Na 
thaniel Hawthorne . 

Portnit Soe q Autograph ‘of Oliver 


Autograph of ‘Brats Mayer, 
bert Pike 
Portraltand Autograph of A. Rou 
Antdgraph of Jones ¥. : 
at of Jones Ve 
Portraitand Autoy Very Mar- 
aret Fuller Osea 

Autograph of Benton J Lonsing : 

Ann 8, Stephens. 
Portzlt and Autograph of Ralph 


nas and Autograph of Edgar 


tograph of Charies Bumner rT 
Soret and Antograph of B. T. 

Autograph f Horace Greeley 

of Horace Greeley 

Poresitand Autograph of W. In- 


graham Kip 
Porth an and Autograph of iltha 


Portrait and Autograph of Alfred 
B. Street... . 
Portralt of Theodore Parker 
Portrait and Autograph of Fran- 
Portrait and Autograph of Eliza 
ortralt an a 
eth Oakes Smith. 


Autograph of P. Hamilton X Myers 

Portralt and. Astograph ile 
Ham 8. Mi 

Portrait and Autograph of Bamuei 


Autograph of John M. Mackie 


i 


$28 £2 8 8 88 2 € Ef £8 F EEE ES EEE 





LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 


Portrait and Autograph of Henry 
T. Tuckerman 
Rorpeait and Ai Autograph ‘of Charles 


Portrait and Autograph of ayjivee 
terdudd. 

Autograph of John R. Brodhead | 

Portrait and Autograph of Louis 


ble 
Portrait and Ac Autograph of Henry 
Portrait and ‘Autograph of EH. 
Portraltrand Autograph of 'T. 8 
Arthur 


Autograph » of W. H.C. Hosmer | 
Portrait, Autograph, and Resi- 
Portal a rie tograpl of Harriet at 
‘01 it ane a of let 
Portrait and SN atorraph : yh of Eliza 
‘ol it ane at 

P riait and Astograph bof Rufus 
ortralt and Aut of Ra 

W. Griswold . 
Porrelt, it and ‘Autograph of T. B. 


Avtograrb of A. J Downing 

Portrait and Autograph of Richard 
H. Lana, Jun.. 

Portrait and Autograph of Anna 
Cora Mowatt . 

Portrait and Autograph of Emily 

P erait and A Bh of A 

ortralt and Aut nne 

©. Lynch » oerap 


yn 
Portralt and ‘Autograph of John 
Portrait sa ‘Autograph of Epes 
Portalfand Ai tograph of P. P. 
‘or it an at of P. P. 
Cooke 3 
Portrait and nd ‘Autograph of John 
Portralt and. Autograph of Corne: 
"tus gid Acton be arien 


Henry D. Thoreau, 





Henry D. Thorean's House . 
Portralt and Autograph of uB 


Portal andj Autograph of ©. W. 
Autograph of Henry AL Wise 
Herman Melville 
Residence of Herman Melville 
Autograph of Pliny Miles. 
Portrait and Autograph of Amelis 


olby 

Portrait and ad Autograph of Estelle 

Portratt's 24 "Autograpi hb of Julis 

ortrait an ut 

‘Ward Howe ot 

Portrait and Autograph of Alice 
B.Haven 

Portrait and Autograph of Sara J. 
Lippincott 

Portralt and Autograph of &. @. 


Portal and Autograph of B. KL 


‘Aldor of Samuel Eliot” 

Portrait and Autograph of Donald 
G. Mitchell 

Portrait and ‘Autograph of T. B. 


Read 
Antograph of Frederick 8. Coz: 


Portal and Antograph of George 
Curtis 

Portrait and ‘Autograph of Fran- 

cis Parkman . . 

Autograph of E. W. Ellsworth 

John B. Thompson 

Portralt and 4 Autograph of George 


Portrait and Autograph of Bayard 
Portgal and q Autograph of BE 


Autegraphot A. J: Requler 
Auoganiat A Reuter: 
University of V irginis « 
the City’ of ‘New 
York. * 
Smithsonian Institution, ; 
The Astor Library, New York. 


Pacs 
4 


2328 & 


88828833 4 























— - . =; 











taal ine 


peeing 


if rea 
Sa 


HTH Hatt at it4 fini 33 i é He CS Be afd sey 
Rial eG ASE, 
et Bla atetiile eGR 
: ce oe silage: Radi Gai | ia 
ie datas 3 Beeail 2g 2>ea2 paige? at ieiads HH 
(eile Heal Bd Gueuilaiiad 
SsEo3 peta 3 sdgsee2 - £28 2 
[acs eaS 
SHE REE a 
fe at Hl i GE ee 
6 agtls eee un bees e 
| a i : 
ages 


eit 
pees 





os 


si 


ih 








6 CYCLOPADIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 





did 
in luxurianes grow; At the mild lustre of her eyes, 
'd from either shoo; Her cherry lips, her dimpled cheek, 
shone all bare; Where Cupids play'd at hide and seek, 
hair Whence many an arrow well, I wot, 
And in his sad face you might see, Against the wight’s tough heart was shot. 
The wit look of poverty. He follow'd her where'er she stray'd, 
‘He seom’d all desolate of heart, While look his love betray’d ; 


hit and dark despair, With the great feata of John - 
love detect, all mingled there. How he, stout moss- 


On the meadow of his eheek, 
= the he laid full twice a week, 


And saw unmov'd his cheek 
Flouted his suit with scorn Fist 
And gave him oft the bag to hold. 





AS EVEYING WALK I¥ VIROINTA—PROM THE LETTERS FROM 
‘Tie SOUTH, 


In truth, the little solitary nook into which I am 
Jer Ree STayA., DeS RS so in ii 

at it is caloulated to call up most. touchingly 
ples exertions, in the minds of those who love 


get Inst ev » Which Oliver and myself 
at this it was such as can never be d 
—I will thorefore not attempt it; but it was still as 
the sleep of innocence—pure os ether, and bright 
as immortality. Having travelled only fourteen 
miles that day, I did not feel tired as usual; and 
after strolled out alone along the windings 
ofa stream about twenty yards wide, that 
skirts a Harrow strip of green meadow, between the 
brook and the high mountain at a little distanco. 
You will confess my landscapes are well watered, 
for every one has a . But sueh is the ease in 





il 











tier a ae 
fils fin HE ih Fale Ha ea uui deplin ile 
fel fue fa nae te su HRM aa 
bln Hell are vile iy Letty Lae 
as La eee Hl ‘te Mie it ay eine Le 
fatsipasciez! Er 
ee Re 





cation 


‘i ee ane a a ee HE a 


aed 
expenses of 
He 
Cee 
running 
a 
coh 


ah i 


ant ia Rate i uit wee ut 
: 


ae A 
aT 









all one hoot 8 practldn ala Bae ols 


e my eyes for a moment, 
Se a 


$8 
rd 


F 
i 
5 
5 
i 
i 
af 
£3 
3 


iy 
ii 
A 
it 
iH 
I 


ti 
: 
uF 


ay 
ti 


i 


t 
= 


2 
£ 


E 
Ey 


it 


i 
4 


ie 
lL 
E 


£ 
i 
} 


i 
i 
a 


i 
: 
| 


refreshments to be brought. But 
he treated cd guests with kindness, he nei- 


ae 
nH 
z: hr 

i 

a 

: 

: 


wai aha nl dhe 
suffering is of the body I mics ti 
is am a physician 
venture can afford thee relief: oy have ‘tra- 
lands, and collected very choice 
ies for human in! roe 

aoe the body, but of the 


er. 
lost the beloved of thy heart, the 
bosom, or been disappointed in the at- 


BUTE: 
fi el e 
mi! 

i 

7 

& 


fff 
A 
g 
Hy 
ii 
H 


A 
i 


CYCLOPADIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 


and the man eursed with the fruition of all his de- 


fer thanking for his hepa, departed wth 
his ey reached the 


atrect 
* Allah me! I will no 
snp in vin pr for epost soe 
on & perverse generation. I see it is 
all the same, whether a man wants one thing, every- 
Sise cot noting Let us go home and sleep.” 
3. 


JOSEPH STORY, 
Josepn Srory was born at Marblehead, 


Mass., 
September 18, 1779. He was the eldest of eleven 


‘war a8 a surgeon. He active 
enna wil only g Sev year a delighted in 
the barber's the town to to 
burn ringlets, a would we = ane 
an an nent ib 
iin fabai60 ceelto lecen trou soem Ga ama 
ers for the amusement of the comy A 
his childhood he was saved from bei 
burnt to death by his mother, who snatched him 
from his blazing bed at the cost of severe per- 
eee ay as berealt He was prepared for oal- 
in his native village, and entered Harvard in 
1795. Dr. Channing was one of his classmates. 
He was a hard student during his collegiate 
of Samu! Sowall in Narkiohead, He completa 
wi 0! ie 
his studies at Salem, where he commenced 
tice, In 1804 he published The Power of’. 
po erien wr meio with a rat yee 
. anthor was at a su 
eles 8 merciless critic on his own 
ing all the eopies he could lay his hands upon, 
It is written in the ornate style of the time, 








peer eneiaatt | 


r it fisatllis 








it ieee iat nat Hl s Mantle ee at 3 
ia ile Fi at uh seein tirt | 
i ste a : tf He a a eae He Bie be SHUnaaa i 
ae HH tag 22 mt 2 iat aieitper aE i i 
Be! as sa ciety 
Fe — eH asus AL auainat ute 


calm- 


Fe 
|e eat Tea Cae Tele 

HEL 
‘ 


ree ermees | bawdy 
tues 





233 i eat saa au E Es ges t 
ae ci ae a i 
ain tia ile if beg He Bil ae a i 
Hig 1 Tee fNTE Be Ha cues Hie sla 
2 +i: aa . STae Hiei eral un He adeacis “ iy 








JOSEPH T. BUCKINGHAM. 


within him ; like one transfixed in adoration, his up- 
lifted eyes seem to rey ont his soul, as if in recogni- 
tion of the divine tribunal, But the overpowering 
thought of Omnipotence is now tempered by the hu- 
man sympathy of his companion, whose open hands, 
connecting the past with the present, seem almost to 
articulate, “ Alas, my brother!” By this exquisite 
tarn, we are next brought to John, the gentle al- 
moner of the Church, who is dealing out their por- 
tions to the needy brethren. And here, as most 
remote from the Judged Ananias, whose sadtoring 
seems not yet to have reached it, we find a spot o 
—not to pass by, but to linger upon, till we 
feel its quiet influence diffusing iteelf over the whole 
mind; nay, till, connecting it with the beloved Dis- 
ciple, we find it leading us back through the excit- 
ing scene, modifying eveu our deepest emotions with 
a kindred tranquillity. 
This is Invention; we have not moved a step 
the picture but at the will of the Artist. 
He invented the chain which we have followed, link 
by link, through every emotion, assimilating many 
into one; and this is the secret by which he prepar- 
ed us, without exciting horror, to contemplate the 
straggle of mortal agony. 

This too is Art; aud the highest art, when thus 
the awful power, without losing its character, is tem- 
pered, as it were, to our mysterious desires. In the 
work of Ostade, we see the same inventive power, 
no less effective, though acting through the medium 
of the humblest materials. 


JOSEPH T. BUCKINGHAM. 
Joszrn T. Booxtnenam, one of the most pro- 
Minent journalists of New England, is a descend- 
ant of Thomas Tinker, who came to Plymouth in 
the May Flower. His father, Nehemiah Tinker, 
resided at Windham, and ruined himself during 
the Revolutionary War by expending his whole 
property in the purchase of supplies for the army, 
for which he received pay in Continental cur- 
rency, which rapidly depreciated, so that at his 
death, on the 17th of March, 1783, the several 
thousand dollars of paper money which he pus- 
sessed, “ would hardly pay for his winding sheet 
and coffin.” He lett a widow and ten children, 
the youngest of whom, Joseph, was burn on the 
twenty-first of December, 1779. The widow en- 
deavored to support the eight children dependent 
Q ber by continuing her hnsband’s business 
of tavern-Keoping, but was obliged to abandon 
the establishment within a year, on account of ill 
health. She grew poorer and poorer, and her 
son records her thankfulness at receiving, on one 
occasion, the crusts cut from the bread prepared 
for the Holy Communion of the coming Sunday. 
She was at last compelled to solicit the aid of the 
selectmen of the town, and was supported in that 
manner for a winter. In the following year she 
received and accepted the offer of a home in the 
family of her friends, Mr. and Mrs. Lathrop, at 
Worthington, Mass. Her son, the subject of this 
aketch, was indentured at the same time by the 
. n to a farmer of the name of Welsh, until 
he attained the age of sixteen. He was kindly 
cared for in the family, and picked up a tolerable 
knowledge of reading, writing, and arithmetic. 
Ie devonred the few books he came across, and 
records his obligations tu a set of Ames’s Alma- 
macs. At the expiration of his time he obtained 
asituation in the printing-otlice of David Carlisle, 
the publisher of the Farmer’s Museum, at Wal- 


‘ slender stock of cash by 
chok 


19 


pole, N.H. The joviality of the wits who filled 
the columns of tliat famous sheet seems to have 
been shared in by the compositors who set wu 
their articles, for they exhausted the poor boy’s 
a demand for a treat, 
and then nearl him by forcing his own 
brandy down his throat. He remained only a 
few months with Carlisle, and then apprenticed 
himself in the office of the Greenfield (Mass.) Ga- 
zette. Here he exercised himself in grammar, by 
comparing the “copy” he had to set up with the 
rules he had learnt, and correcting it if wrong. 
In 1798 he lost his excellent mother. In 1803 
he deserted the composing-stick for a few months, 
to fill the office of frompter to a company of 
comedians who played during the summer months 
at Salem and Providence. In 1806, having pre- 
viously taken by act of legislature his mother’s 
family name of Buckingham, he male his first 
es:ay as editor, by commencing a Monthly Maga- 
zine, The Polyanthus. The numbers contained 
seventy-two pages 18mo., with a portrait, each. 
It was suspended in September, 1807, and re- 
sumed in 1812, when two volumes of the original 
size and four in octavo appeured. In January, 
1809, he commenced The Ordeal, a weekly, of 
sixteen octavo pages, which lasted six months, 
In 1817, he_ commenced, with Samuel L. Knapp, 
The New England Galazy and Masonic Maga- 
gine. It was started without capital by its pro- 
jector, who now had a wife and six children 
lependent on him, and frankly proposed to return 
a dollar and a half out of the three tendered by 
his first subscriber, on the plea that he did not 
believe he should be able to keep up the paper 
more than six months, By the aid of the Masonic 
Lodges it, however, hecame tolerably successful. 
Like his previous publications, it sided in politics 
with the Federal party. 

In 1828, Mr. Buckingham sold the Galaxy, in 
order to devote his entire attention to the Boston 
Courier, a daily journal, which he had commenced 
on the Nesond of March, 1824. The prominent 
idea of its foundcrs was the advocacy of the 
“ protective system.” Mr. Buckinghain continued 
to edit the Courier until June, 1848, when he 
sold out his interest. In July, 1881, he com- 
menced with his son Edwin The New England 
Magazine, a monthly of ninety-six pages, and 
one of the best periodicals of its class which ever 
appeared in the United States. The number of 
July, 1883, contains a mention of the death of 
Edwin at sea, on a voyage to Smyrna, undertaken 
for the benefit of health. He was but twenty- 
three years of age. In November, 1834, the 

ublication was transferred to Dr. Samuel G. 
lowe and John O. Sargent. 

During the years 1828, 1831-3, 1836, 1838-9, 
Mr. Buckingham was a member of the Legisla- 
tare, and in 1847-8, 1850-1, of the Senate of Mas- 
sachusetts. He introduced a report in favor of 
the suppression of lotteries, and performed other 
valuable services during these periods. 

Since his retirement from the press, Mr. Buck- 
ingham has published, Specimens of Newspaper 
Literature, with Personal Memoirs, Ancedotes, 
and Reminiscences, in two volumes duodecimo, 
which has pnased through two editions; and 
Personal Memoirs and Recollections of Editorial 
Life, in two similar volumes, They contain a 





CYCLOPADIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 


22 
we continued alono in his 





Lg LUE wate 


From that time for the remainder of his life 


numerous literary © In these he always 
exercised an influence, and through 
them was as known in England as in Ame- 


? 
aeelie 


LLB 
2 
peel 
aprile 
Hie 
ane 
EZEE 
ae 





powers of expression. 
Shortly after this tine, pile pee & moun- 
tain Seton, Be was taken with typhus fever, 
enuington, Vermont, October 2, 


‘MILITARY QENIUS—PEOM TIE ESSAY ON NAPOLEON. 


for it is not conversant with the highest and richest 
clave ot theaght, We grant that a mind, which « 
es ina wide souuiny st a glance, aud understands, 
almost by intuition, the positions it affords for a 
macoemtcl ae , is a comprehensive and vigorous 
one, The , = di “te! a Brak to 
a force; who supplics by skill, 
seienee, and invention, the want of numbers; who 
dives into the counsels of his enemy, and who gives 
unity, energy, and success to a vast Yai of 
i in the midst of casualties aud ol 
which no wisdom could foresee, manifests great 
power, But still the chief work of a is to 
physical foree; to remove physical obstrue- 
; to avail himself of physical mids and advan- 
tages; to act on matter; to overcome rivers, ram- 
yontains, and human muscles; and these are 





eit 
i 
| 


"! 
J 
no 
7 
: 


Ler EE 
qeza 
ae 
He e 
= ar 
ine 


i 
f 
H 
i 


nature, and | Are slowly round, while I am fann’d 


di 
for chiliren, to whom he was endeared by his While tears unbidden i suffuse, 
attentions: “Thouffection with which horegarded |  J'susk themoce ty ome sal tcxevelllog, arose, 


m 
I but they have vanish'd! and the 
"Fro now to Faun fom whore T take my wand 
Dwells on the hoary pile, Let no rash 
Ben iE sod iat ee whe ieee 
eat ic shall al nay 
Be there for ever stifled in this breast.— 
Wise pligrin foot may son day Biber Bli= 
im fect may some day 
Shall melt; alike, and dle at the t 
Dtshe gad Ponorstene has oe ground 
‘atriot’s voice even the 
Tereud os thoes teue Biadwie 
To mnke us free; and whose unsullied name, 
Sull, like the sun, illustrious shines the same. 


‘THE DISMANTLED CABINET, 
Go, beautiful ereations of the mind, 
Fair forms of earth and heaven, and scenes as fair— 
Where Art appears with Nature's loveliest airn— 
Go, the few upon whom Fortune kind 
Yet lavishes her smilea When calmly shin’d 
My tice te not fail & zest most rare 
To add to life; and when rep pot ld care, 
Or sodness twin'd, as she hath often 'd, 
With cypress wreath my brow, even then ye threw 
Around enchantment. But though I deplore 


The following just tribute to his memory t- | ofteinaT yet akall ae you oe baler 
’ —_— 








in the Gazette, in Th ie th onde that ¥ berry ur view, 
Died in New TOE 9 the Sch tava ew Though seer to be iapiaeh part to sek d 
this city on Friday last, and at the side 
ot mao Wh ial py had recte | yin ta ee es mt 
ancestral group which has been collecting since On Ai nr er, Fa we, 
settlement of the country. ms a air Usthont thosteowesnl nae ; 


“A devoted, affectionate, and liberal son and ‘Muse, that upon the top of Pindus sitt’st, 


And with the enchanting necents of thy |; 
the warmest feelings of his family circle. To his | Dost soothe the im while thy icltenee Saal 
friends and nequaintances he was deli- | Earth's favor'd bards confess, be present now ; 
cate, and refined in his t. With @ | Breathe through my soul, inspii the song, 
highly cultivated and tasteful mind he And upward bear me in the adventurous flight ; 
pleasint instruction to all who held intercourse | Lo the resistless theme— T 


HENRY PICKERING. 


Let others boastful sing the golden ear 
Whose farinaceous treasures, by nice art 
And sleight of hand, with store of milk and eggs, 
Form’d into pancakes of an ample round, 
ight please an epicure—and homebred bards 
t to celebrate the tassell’d maize 
‘Worn in the bosom of the Indian maid, 


Who ht to make the hoe-cake, (dainty fare, 
When batter’d well!) I envy not their joys. 
How easier of digestion, and, beyond 


more pure, more delicate, the cake 
All other cakes above, queen of the whole, 
And triumph of the culinary art— 
The Buckwheat Cake! my passion when a bey, 
And still the object of intensest love— 
Love undivided, knowing no decline, 
Immutable. My benison on thee, 
Thou glorious Plant! that thus with gladness 

crown'dst 

Life's spring-time, and beneath bright Summer's eye, 
Lared’st me so oft to revel with the bee, 
Among thy snow-white flowers: nay, that e’en yet 
Propitious, amidst visions of the past 
Which seem to make my day-dreams now of joy, 
Giv'st me to triumph o’er the ills of time. 
Thou, when the sun “ pours down his sultry wrath,” 
Scorching the earth and withering every flower, 
Tnlock’st, beneficent, thy fragrant cells, 
And lavishest thy perfume on the air; 
But wheu brown Autumn sweeps along the glebe, 
Gathering the hoar-frost in her rustling train, 
Thou captivat'st my heart! for thou dust then 
Wear a rich purple tint, the sign most sure 
That natore perform’d her kindly task, 
Leaving the husbandman to sum his wealth, 
And thank the bounteous Goda 0, now be wise, 
Ye swains, and use the scr the most gently ; else 
‘The grain, plump and well-ripen’d, breaks the tie 
Which slightly binds it to the parent stalk, 
And falls in rattling showers upon the ground, 
Mocking your futile toil; or, mingled straight 
With earth, lies buried deep, with all the hopes 
Of disappointed man! Soon as the seythe 
Hath done its work, let the rake follow slow, 
With caution gathering up into a swarth 
‘The lusty corn; which the prompt teamster next, 
Or to the barn floor clean transports, or heaps 
Bemorseless on the ground, there to be thresh’d— 
Dull work, and most unmuasical the flail! 
And yet, if ponderous rollers smooth the soil, 
‘The earth affords a substitute not mean 
For the more polish’d plank; and they who boast 
‘The texture of their meal—the sober race 
‘That claim a peaceful founder for their etate— 
(Title worth all the kingdoms of the world!) 
Do most affect the practice. But a point, 
So subtile, others may debate: enough 
For me, if, when envelop'd in a clou 
Of steam, hot from the griddle, I perceive, 
On tasting, no rude mixture in the cake, 
Gravel, or eandy particle, to the ear 
Even painful, and most fearful in effect : 
For should the jaws in suddgn contact meet, 
The while, within a luscious morsel hid, 
Some pebble comes between, lo! as the gates 
Of Hell, they “grate harsh thunder ;” and the man 
Aghast, writhing with pain, the table spurns, 
And looks with loathing on the rich repast. 


But now, his ers full, and the sharp air, 
And fancy keener atil, the appetite 
Inspiriting, to the mill, perch’d near some crag 
Down which the fonmy torrent rushes loud, 
The farmer bears his grist. And here I must 
To a discovery rare, in time advert: 











27 


For the pure substance dense which is conceal'd 
Within Re husk, and which, by process quick 
As simple, is trausform’d to meal, should firet 
Be clean divested of its sombre coat: 

The which elfected, 'tween the whizzing stones 
Descends the kernel, beauteous, and reduced 
To dust impalpable, comes drifting out 

Ina white cloud. Let not the secret, thus 
Divulg’d be lost on you, ye delicate! 

Unless, in sooth, convine’d ye should prefer 

A sprinklirg-of the bran; for ‘tis by some 
Alleg'd that this a higher zest confers, 

Who shall decide? Epicurean skill 

I boast not, nor exactest taste ; but if 

I am to be the umpire, then I say, 

As did the Baratarian king, of slee 

My blessing on the man who firet the art 
Divine invented! Ay, let the pure flour 

Be like the driven snow, bright to the eye, 
And unadulterate. So jovial eons 

Of Bacchus, with electric joy, behold 





+ ©The dancing ruby ;” then, impatient, toss 


The clear unsullied draught. But is there aught 
In the inebriate cup, to be compar'd 
To the attractive object of my Tove, 
The Buckwheat Cake? Let those who list, still quaff 
The madd'ning juice, and, in their height of bliss, 
Believe that such, she of the laughing eye 
And lip of rose, celestial Hebe, deals 
Among the Gods; but O, ve Powers divine! 
If c’er ye listen to a mortal’s prayer, 
Still give me my ambrosia, This confers 
No “pains arthritic,” racking every joint, 
But leaves the body healthful, and the mind 
Serene and imperturb'd.—A nicer art 
Than all, remains yet to be taught; but dare 
I venture on the theme? Ye Momus tribes, 
Who laugh even wisdom into seorn—and ye, 
Authoritative dames, who wave on high 
Your sceptre-spit, away! and let the nymph 
Whose smiles betoken pleasure in the task, 
(If task it be.) bring forth the polish’d jar ; 
Or, wanting such, one of an humbler sort, 
Earthen, but smooth within: although nor gold, 
Nor silver vase, like those once used, in times 
Remote, by the meek children of the Sun, 
(Ere tyrant Spain had steep’d their land in gore,) 
Were of too costly fabric. But, at once, 
Obedient to the precepts of the muse, 
Pour in the tepid stream, warm but not hot, 
And pure as water from Castalian spring. 
Yet interdicts she not the balmy tide 
Which flows from the full udder, if preferr’d; 
This, in the baking, o’er the luscious cake, 
Diffuses a wari golden hue—but that 
Frugality commends and Taste approves: 
Though if the quantity of milk infus'd 
Be not redundant, none can take offence. 
Let salt the liquid mass impregnate next ; 
And then into the deep, capacious urn, 
Adroitly sift the inestimable dust, 
Stirring, meanwhile, with paddle firmly held, 
The thickening fluid. Sage Discretion here 
Can best determine the consistence fit, 
Nor thin, nor yet too thick. Last add the barm— 
The living spirit which throughout the whole 
Shall quickly circulate, and airy, light, 
Bear swan by degrees the body dull. 

Be prudent now, nor let the appetite 
Too keen, urge forward the last act of all. 
Time, it is true, may move with languid wing, 
And the impatient soul demand the cate 
Delicious; yet would I advise to bear 
A transient ill, and wait the award of Fate, 








Se 


cause, and died spacer ata 

at 8 ee 
: Pet Mea Hy nee 
na.* oceu to 
Peters New England, afd ion easecion, 
of the ines. The scene has 
init ni auc 
Av ot a lary is 
jeal_plctur. died the an 


The contest em 
time 


of Herman Le Koy, of New 


ta the Mexican war, In 1680 Webster marrlet ® 
had 








Many of the of Webster of this 

wore oppaiton 0 the fused poly oi 
ment, In the spring and summer of 1880 

France, and was received 


man and 
on several public occasions, but the only instance i 
which his remarks have been preserved at length: 
was on his favorite topic of agrienitnre 
at the Triennial Celebration of Society 
of Agriculture at Oxford" On his rotarn he en 
in the presidontial contest which resulted 
in the election of General Harrison, under whose 
administration he became Secretary of State in 
aay To BS — Fike of the boun= 
lary question ane ur OUtSh eee 
with nd, he retained office onder Tyler 
1843. 1845, in the Presidency of he 
returned to his seat in the Senate, where he eon- 
tinned till pce called by Eilers Se eee 
partment of State again in 7 - 
viously sustained the Compromise Mecmres On 
the full weight of his ability, both in 
and in numerons “ Union” 
the country. He should have had the Whig no- 
mination to the Presidency, but the a a 
of Scott ii . The frequent engagements 
Webster at Conventions ar rides oe 
bento ad him eae his ee 
to the people, He spoke at the 
Evie Railrowd in 1851; he “idiverch ¢ doen 
on his favorite books and stadies before the New 
York Historical Society, in F 1852; and 
in the same month presided at the tant 
Hall assembly, when Bryant read his eulogy on 


+ July 18, 1599, 

















pul 











thaell 


ig iat 





ial yey 


uy depts 
ce ee 
LHS He ie ige a/iae fat He 
Th ao Saas 
ie He e ei laiet ape cane an iia 
Pe pelts quali HE ahead [ge 
Beir Pedal ilar feet gt 
L Hi ETNA Spy |S] 
pEReSsssezeisesy | 4408 
ae ue iapeiieal ah 
Ua ke i eee | i 
Saal Wee 
te } vba in 


WASHINGTON IRVING. 51 


robust and athletic writings of Cooper, the 
volumes of Irving improved American ety. 


‘We may here properly introduce some notices 
of the elder brothers of Washington Irving. who, 
together with himself, established the family re- 
pete in literature, They were four :—Wil- 


engaged in literary or professional life except 
Ebenezer, who pursued a mercantile career. 

Wouum Irnvrse was born in New York, 
August 15, 1766. He commenced life as an 
Indian trader, residing at Johnstown and Cangh- 
awaga on the Mohawk, from 1787 to 1791. He 
married a sister of the author, James K. Paul- 
ding, November 7, 1793. At the date of Salma- 
gundi he was a merchant at New York, with the 
character of a man of wit and refinement, who 
hal added to a natural genial temperament the 
extensive resources of observation, and a fresh 
experience of the world, gathered in his border 
life. The part which he took in Salmagundi was 
chiefly the contribution of the poetical pieces, 
which are mainly from his pen—the letters and 
proclamations, the humorous and sentimental 
verse, “from the mill of Pindar Cockloft.” These 
poems are in a happy vein, and if separately 

ublished with the author's name, would have 
Rog since given him a distinct place in the col- 
lections of the American literati. In furtherance 
of the prevailing humor of the book, they cele- 
brate the simpler manners of former days, and 
the eccentricities and scandals of the passing 
time. The satire is pungent and good-natared, 
and the numbers felicitous. A few stanzas will 
show how pleasantly Pindar Cockloft, Esq., 
blended mirth with sentiment. 


‘VISION OF TWO SIBTEES IN A BALL-ROOM. 
How oft I breathe the inward sigh, 

And feel the dew-drop in my eye, 

When I behold some teous frame, 

Divine in everything but name, 

Just venturing, in the tender age, 

On Fashion's late new-fangled stage! 

Where soon the guileless heart shall cease 

To beat in artlessness and peace; 

Where all the flowers of gay delight 

With which youth decks its prospects bright, 

Shall wither "mid the cares—the strife— 

The cold realities of life! 


Thus lately, in my careless mood, 
As I the world of fashion viewed, 
While celebrating great and small, 
That grand solemnity—s ball, 

My roving vision chanced to light 

On two sweet forms, divinely bright ; 
Two sister nymphs, alike in face, 

In mien, in loveliness and grace ; 
Twin rose-buda, bursting into bloom, 
Tn all their brilliance and perfume ; 
Like those fair forms that often beam, 
Upon the eastern poet’s dream: 


For E.jen had each lovely maid 
In native innocence arrayed,— 
And heaven itself had shed 
‘Its sacred halo round each head! 

They seemed, just entering hand in hand, 
To eautious this fairy land 
To take a timid hasty view, 
Enchanted with a scene eo new. 
‘The modest blush. untanght by art, 
Bespoke their purity of heart ; 

every timorous act unfurled 

Two souls unspotted by the world. 


Oh, how theese stran; joyed my sight, 
And thrilled m boone wi eit 
They brought ¢ visions of my youth 
Back to my soul in all their truth, 
Recalled fair spirits into day, 

That time's rough hand bad swept away! 
Thus the bright natives from above, 
Who come on messages of love, 

‘Will bless, at rare and distant whiles, 
Our sinful dwelling by their smiles! 

Oh! my romance of youth is past, 

Dear airy dreams too bright to last! 

Yet when such forms as these appear, 

I feel your soft remembrance here ; 

For, ah! the simple poet's heart, 

On which fond love once plaved its part, 
Still feels the soft pulsations beat, 


As loth to quit their former seat. 
Just like the "es melodious wire, 
Swept by a bard with heavenly fire, 


Though ceased the loudly swelling strain, 
Yet eweet vibrations long remain. 


Full soon I found the lovely pair 
Had eprang beneath a mother's care, 
Hard by a neighboaring streamlet’s side, 
At once its ornament and pride. 

The beauteous parent's tender heart 
Had well fulfilled ite pious part; 

And, like the holy man of old, 

As we're by sacred writings told, 

Who, when he from his pupil sped, 
Poured two-fold blessings on his head,— 
So this fond mother had imprest 

Her early virtues in each breast, 

And as she found her stock enlarge, 
Had stampt new graces on her charge. 


‘The fair resigned the calm retreat, 
Where first their souls in concert beat, 
And flew on expectation’s wing, 

To sip the joys of life's gay spring; 

To sport in fashion’s splendid maze, 
Where friendship fades, and love decays, 
So two sweet wild flowers, near the side 
Of some fair river's silver tide, 

Pure as the gentle stream that laves 
The green banks with its lucid waves, 
Bloom beauteous in their native ground, 
Diffusing heavenly fragrance round : 
But should a venturous hand transfer 
These blossoms to the gay parterre 
Where, spite of artificial aid, 

The fairest plants of nature fade; 
Though they may shine supreme awhile, 
Mid pale ones of the stranger soil, 

‘The tender beauties soon decay, 

And their sweet fragrance dies away. 

Blest spirits! who enthroned in air, 
Watch o’er the virtues of the fair, 

And with angelic ken survey, 
Their windings through life's chequered way + 


WASHINGTON IRVING. 


respects a model for imitation. To the strictest 
integrity and a strong love of justice, he united 
the most exact and methodical habits of busine-s ; 
attentive, careful, and painstaking, few judges in 
this state ever have been more accurate, or per- 
haps more generally correct in their decisions. 
In his early days we have seen him a contributor 
to his brother's newspaper. He was fond of com- 
position, had the family elegance of style, and 
wrote brilliant political verses in the party con- 
flicts of his day. He died in New York, h 
15, 1838. 

Of the younger members of the family, John 
Treat Irving, son of Judge Irving, is the author 
of several works of distinguished literary merit. 
In 1835 he published Indian Sketches, a narra- 
tive of an expedition to the Pawnee Tribes, a 
book of lively, spirited description. He is also 
the author of two novels, remarkable for their 
striking pathetic and humorous qualities: The 
Attarney, and Harry Hareon, or the Benecolent 
Bachelor. Both of these were first published in 
the Knickerbocker Mu 
of John Quod, the wel 





‘ine, with the signature - 
known title to many a ! 


eat article in that journal. The locality is : 


New York, and the interest of each turns upon 
saages of the author's profe-sion, the law. 
ith the graver themes of rascality are mingled 

the humors of low life, both sketched with a finn 
hand. 
Theodore, the son of Ebenezer Irving. joined 


his uncle, Washington Irving, in Earope in 1828, ‘ 


and resided with him in Spain and England. 
From 1836 to 1849 he was Pr stessor of History 
and Belles Lettres at Geneva College, and sub- 
sequently held a similar po-ition in the Free 
Academy in New York. In 1835 he publi-hed an 
historical work, The Conquest of Florida, by 
Hernando de Soto, w the cumposition of which he 
was led by his stadies in Spain. It is written with 
ease and elegance, and ha» been well received, 
having been recently reprinted in 1551. Mr. 
Irving is also the author of a devotional volume, 
The Fountain of Liring Waters. 1n 1354 he re- 


ceived orders in the Protestant Episoopal Church. , 


THE STOUT CENTLEMAS—FBOM SSACEBEIDCE MALL 
Tt was a rainy Sunday in the gloomy month of 
November. I hai been detained, in the course of a 
journey, by a slight indisposition, from which I was 
recovering; but was still feverish, and obliged to 
keep within doors all day,in an inn of the small 
town of Derby. A wet Sunday in a country inn!— 
whoever has hal the luck to rience one can 
alone judge of my situation. e rain puttered 
inst the casements; the bells tolle] for church 
with a melancholy sound I went to the windows 
in quest of something to amuse the eye; but it 
seemed as if I had been placed completely out of 
the reach of all amusement. The windows of my 
bedroom looked ont among tiled rms and stacks of 
ehimneys, while those of my sitting-roo-n em: 
dei a fall view of the stableyarl I know of 
nothing more calculate] to make a maa sick of this 
world than s stable-yard on a rainy day. The 
pisce was littered with wet straw that had been 
ked about by travellers and stable-tova In one 
corner was a stagnant pool of water. surrvunding an 
island of muck; there were several halfdrowsed 


© Daly's Histery of Judictal Tribunais of Sew York, p G. 








53 


fowls crowded together under a cart, which 
was a mizerable, crest-fallen cock, drenched out of 
all life and spirit; his drooping tail matted, as it 
were, into a single feather, along which the water 
trickled from his back; near the cart was a half- 
dozing cow, chewing the cud, and standing patiently 
to be rained on, with wreaths of vapor rising from 
her reeking hide; a wall-eyed horse, tired of the 


loneliness of the stable, was puking his spectral head . 


out of a window, with the rain dripping on it from 
the eaves; an unhappy cur, chained to a doghouse 
hard by, uttered something every now and then, 
between a bark and a yelp; a drab of a kitchen 
wench tramped backwards and forwards through 
the yard in pattens, looking as sulky as the weather 
iteelf; every thing, in short, was comfortless and 
forlorn, except a crew of hardened ducks, assembled 
like boon companions round a puddle, and making a 
riotous noise over their liquor. 

I was lonely and listless, and wanted amusement. 
My room soon became insupportable. 1 abandoned 
it, and sought what is technically called the travel 
lers'-room. This is a public Toom set apart at most 
inns for the accommo-!ution of a class of wayfarers, 
called travellers, or riders; a kind of commercial 
knighte-errant, who are incessantly scouring the 
kingdom in gigs. on horseback, or by coach. They 
are the only succeseors that I know of ut the present 
day. to the kuight+errant of yore. They lead the 
sane kind of roving « lventurous life, only changing 
the lance for a drivi:.g whip, the buckler for a 
tern-card, and the cvat of mail for an upper Benja- 
min Insteal of vindicating the charm: of peerles 












room of the hotel, in the gool ol fighting times, 
would ba hurg round at night with the armor of 
Wway-worn warriors, such as coats of mail, falchions, 
ning hel:nets; s the travellers’-room is 

rnisiel with the har g of their successors, 
with box-coats, whips of all kinds, spurs, gaiters, and 
oil-cloth covered hats 

I was i: hopes of 








some of thee worthies 
inted. There were, 














the people, picking their wu 
conte beisted midleg hij 
The bell cvaned to toll, 
I then amiel myself with wateh 
of a traiesnin optenite: who, b 
house for fearef wettir.g their 
off their charins at the front wi 
the chance tenants of the inn. They at length were 
summoned awa; by a vigilant viwgarfared nether, 
and [had nothi- g further frem withont t amas me. 
What was I ty do to pam away the long-lived day? 
I was ewily nervous ard lonely; and everything 
aboat an inn seems calculated to make a dail day 
ten times duller. Old newspapers, smelling of beer 
and therco smoke, and which I bal already read 
half a dozen timea Goud fur othing books, that 
Were wore: than raisy weather, 1 bored myself to 


h, with ptt 
4 drippi:.g umbrellas, 








we 





with whose 

on, and that philosopher lent an ear to rapid 
schemes of education without the classics, and 
French dreams of government, he found himself 


jnions, as time went 


in increasing antagonism, Having once accepted 
have made the best of it, and 
at the world, as his 

Ictters show him to have done; but there was 
ion for bis wit in the temper of the 


provoeati 
Siycas and Davtiaestib tes caa,paptle and non: 
parishioners, 








tohissacrifices and his services to 
larship to what was sound in 
“le A — He de- 


ape APR * : 
He was a man of decided mark and ability, of 
ual to that of Witherspoon, thongh his 
inferior in soundness of judgment. Dr. Miller's 
~ tienda noes hedeeettgpe re 
Piends in Than! ab memoria} 1s 
‘Dr Nisbet “ a scholar of picked reading i 
a was in 
piestan agit Tnodsen Earopean | ; and 
an memory as well 
stores to great ad- 


He had that vein of humorous drollery 
Smith 








education were James Ross, anthor of a Latin 
Grammar formerly known, professor of the Greek 
and Latin ; Mr. Robert Johnston, pro 
Titson witha voluminous protosorip ed 8 his 
vidson, with a voluminous i : 
tory, chrono, rhetoric, and belles Tetires.? 

in the di ‘ 


of Dr. Nisbet the last ; 
acted for more than five years as Prego 
the office having been to Dr. Samuel 


aon New bch the Rev. ee 
mish Atwater, ., of Middlebury 
was chosen, He delivered his inal peRs 
at the Commencement in 1809. New di 
Fes of soe were Gece and bs re 
gained ground, but difficulties arising in 
verninent in 1815, Dr, Atwater resigned the Le 
eg After this, various ci: bs ie 

management were resorted to for the repair 
of the exhansted finances, and the college was 
closed for six years. 

Tn 1822 the Rey. John M. Mason of New York 
was created dent, and held the office for two 

ith failing health his great reputation 

could not the fortunes of the college. The 
Rey. Dr. William Neill succeeded him, and in 
1829 resigned. The Rev. Dr. Samuel B. How of 
New Jersey was the last occupant prior to the 
transfer of the college interest to the control of 
the Methodist Episcopal Church in 1883. Anew 

















DAVID HOFFMAX. 


wort Sapwtast nert of bis enliectve of hoks. In 
this Sranch of Knowiodee, his Secueices Fa se 
Ambolagr snd Gercai Reposiuey 3 war 
for chs: cavefr! ;¢ ningical warning which now 
prevails so cemerally ia car schods of divinity. 
As a fendation fiw this, Mr. Wm Weil, at Mr. 

= "9 urgent desire. and under his super. 
intendenee. pubbshed in 159 an edition of Griet- 
bach’s Manes] Greek Texament:—the firs in- 
stance of a Greek book printed with becoming care 
and accuracy in the United States* and stil we 
suppose the only inscance of a Greek took ordered 
in considerable numbers from this sive of the Al- 


by the elder Dexter, 
to promote a more critical Knowledge of Sacred 

i caty for which bewas just preparing 
himelf when he was suddenly cut off by death. 
In short, it was he who first took the study of 


it had rested during the poor discussions and con- 
troversies of the latter half of the eighteenth cen- 
tary, when little more learning was asked for than 
to be found in such books a3 Campbell's Gus- 
and Macknight's Epistles; and placed it on 
solid foundation of the text of the New Testa- 


permitted to few persons to render so consi- 
derable a service to the csuse of Christianity in 
oar Western World. 

But Mr. Buckminster’s great popular success 
was asa public preacher. His personal appear- 
ance, and particularly the beauty of his counte- 
nance, beaming with intelligence and goodness; his 
voioe remarkable for its sweetness and solemnity ; 
and his gracious manner, natural almost to care- 
lessness, but marked with great earnestnesa, espe- 
cially in his devotional services—all these circum- 
stances favored, no doubt, the effect of his dis- 
courses as they were delivered. But we now 

j them only as compositions which the press 
given to the world to he estimated according 
to their appropriateness to the purpose for which 
they were prepared, and according to their intrin- 
sic literary merits. He published only four dur- 
ing his lifetime; a short address at the ordination 
of his friend the Rev. Charles Lowell, in 1806; a 
sermon on the death of Gov. Sullivan, who was 
his parishioner, in 1808; his brilliant Discourse 
before the Phi Beta Kappa Society, of Cambrid, 
in 1809 ; and in 1811, a sermon on the death of the 
Rev. Wm. Emerson, with whose religious socie' 
his own was much connected. But after his deati 
twenty-four of his sermons were selected and pub- : 
lished, in 1814, with a memoir of his life, by his 
friend the Rev. S. O. Thatcher, to which, in 1829, | 
another volume was added, containing twenty- 
two; and in 1839, the whole, with some cxtracts 
from his MSS. that had previously appeared in a 


© The first Greek type used in the United States was used in 
Piating an original Greek ode and an original Greek elegy, 
by Stephen Bewall, afterwards Profossor of Hebrew [a 
Harvard College. This was in 1761, at Boston. : 
Vou. 1.—5 





| 


al when be was between twenty and 
Twenty-eight vears oh as the hurmal demandof 
dary called foe them: and ther were a] nase: 
Fly given to the press withoot tha: nal revive 
‘dy their author, which is always w important, 

Before his time the sermons of New Bngtand hed 
been chiedy doctrinal, and generally either dull or 
metaphysical; and, although a diferent strike of 
preaching. one more practical and moe marked 
with literary grace aml religiogs senility, bed 
begun to prevail in Boson and its neighborhoal 
before Mr. Bockminster appeare}, vet anty ae 
casioasl disquarses of the srt had been pabtishal; 
and the volume of his sermons printad in IS} 
undoubtedly gave the decisive and the guidi 
impuke to the better manner that has jucvailed 
since.* 








DAVID HOFFMAN. 
lar Wars Native 





which he held for nearly twenty years, from 1817 
to 1836, as Professor of Law in the University of 
Maryland, enabled him to render his accomplish- 
ments as a scholar directly available in this di- 
rection. He illustrated the study of the law in 
a series of publications; the first of which, ie 
sued in 1817, was his Course of Leyal Study, a 
work which seoured the respect of the soundest 
jadgments; Marshall, Kent, Story, and De 

itt Clinton, and other eminent authorities at 
home and abroad, bestowing their commendations 
on it for the method and acumen of its conception 
and execution. This work re-appeared in an en- 
larged and improved form in 1886, His next publi- 





© Mr. Buckminster's principal publications in the periodicals 


of his time are:— 
1805 Review of Miller's Ret of the xviil. cent; tn the 
Cambridge Literary lany—his first appearance a 
an anthor. 
1805 Review of the Salem Sallust; tho first ancient classte 
printed in the United States, with original Latin preface 
and notes. m Anthology, vol. li. 
1808 Review of 1a Translation of Ciccro’s Cato Major, 
abllsbed by Dr. Franklin, Philadelphia 1744 the fret 
Brnslation of an anclent classic made and printed In the 
United States. Three articles in the Boston Anthology, 


aA 
| 1800, 1809, 1811. Articles on Griesbach'’s New Testament in 


, Vols, v. vi. and x., and in the Gene- 


the Boston Anthol 
itory view, Cambridge, vol, 1. 


tory and 


tal Rey 
| 1819 Translation from Schleusner's Lexicon, with notes. Hie 


last publication. 
We are indebted for thie notloe of Buckminster to the Pen of 
Mr Gartge tetaon of Boston At has boon redeoed Frosh 
biographical review which he published in the Christian Exami. 


‘ner for September, 


: 


oT 











in addition to the usual 


aa 


which have 




















$ 





Para ileuip ae 
Brann i | cae He 
ee ip Hl u it ee a 
on AE HL nu shal 
: i ad al a a He a 
ig po SePR SSS HH r Pees 
eee ne uy 
cuiunall Lh oy 
PUR tae ie ee 
DUA aa ital 





fill'd with the nectar that Jupiter si 
PO pee greghned pds tee kosed ation 
Tho tear of regret will intrusively swell, 
As fancy reverts to my father’s plantation, 


AS 
2 
= 


nt, the second 
and a founder of Yale College. 
were watched over with great 
an excellent mother, to whom he warmly 


i in his subsequent poems. 
ho a rap oa 


BR g BRR 
ati 
abe 
get 


i 
itis 


a 
i 
- ? 
i 
re 
a 


it 
h 
i 


with 
chief, 
called forth for spect 
his more matured poem, the Airs of | 
which first gave him re 
recitation at a cbarital 
to exhibit the associations of music 
and national 


loro fay tre Rei al 
Sepik oor! ave deservedly given ths anal 
high reputation for this . 
INVITATIONS OF THE Soeg yess! oF PaLEeTINE 
ew fa We monstals dbs 


Where lies our t—though many a vista: 
We ma; eee ie case ed eee 
Where lies our patht—a poet, and inquire 
iba what voles, what streams become the 


laurels whispering on his shady sides, 
ene is Moana ender rolls the wave, 


Is yonder seen, where first A 

Thoee potent el that, foun the yilding earth 
Cieaied oes expen his aa Ara 

And fast by Hremus, Thracian Hebrus creepe 
O'er golden sands, and still for weeps, 
Whose head, borne by the » along, 





* Alrs of Palestine and other Poems, by John Plerpest 
Bestos, Monroe & Co, td 












MORDECAI MANUEL NOAH. 


There Nereids sing, and Triton winds his shell ; 

There be thy path,—for there the Muses dwell. 
No, no—a lonelier, lovelier path be mine: 

Greece and her charm I leave, for Palesint: P 

There, purer streams thro ier valleys flow, 

Tod sweeter flowers on holier mptataine blow 

I love to breathe where Gilead sheds her balm ; 

I love to walk on Jordan’s banks of palm ; 

I love to wet my foot in Hermon’s dews ; 

I love the promptings of Isaiah's muse ; 

In Carmel’s holy grots I'll court repose, 

And deck my mossy couch with 's deathless 


On Arno’s bosom, as he calmly flows, 
And his cool arms round Vallombrosa throws, 
Rolling his tide through classic vales, 
Alone.—at night,—the Italian boatman sails. 
High o’er Mont’ Alto walks, in maiden pride, 
Night's queen ;—he sees her image on that tide, 
Now, ride the wave that curls ita infant crest 
Around his prow, then rippling sinks to rest ; 
Now, glittering dance around his eddying oar, 
Whose every sweep is echoed from the shore ; 
Now, far before him, on a liquid bed 
Of waveless water, rest her radiant head. 
How mild the empire of that virgin queen! 
How dark the mountain’s shade! how still the scene! 
Hushed by her silver , zephyrs sl: 
On dewy leaves. that wehaig the deep, 
Sor dare to whisper through the bonghs, nor stir 
The valley's willow, nee the forantain’ fir, 
Sor make the and breathless aspen quiver, 
Yor brash, gad aed wing, that Fans river. 
Hark ‘—'tis a convent's bell :—its midnight ehime; 
For musie measures even the march of Time:— 
Oer beading trees, that fringe the distant shore, 
Gray torrets rise :—the eye ean catch no more. 
‘The boatman, lisening to the toliug bell, 
ffumpes-is bis car :—e low 224 sol-mn swell, 
Fron the deep shale. that rind the cloister lies, 
Rolle through the air. a-d om the water dies 





eed penn bevering wear: — 
Wry sbochd abe mourt# why sent fur brigiser blie. 
A lovebe scent. a ewer sung. thar tie! 





Peers ETI 
Wettes for fir Tordii-chan 0 tae now ongrepotiona! Orch 
 Pipmen. iat wpe Be Gown oxnujaed ty fhe enr- 
Het eeprepaieres: nara we Amorine. 

Tht winds aud were were mering : 


The Miigmimme met fie 2 


a 





Ye an tie wits tit wore tine 
Ther woreny. aut tear peeyeme 

Uist omn cone Wy ture tint 
From ere me ou me tere * 


Vee sere wt lore 4 a 








78 


Their hill of graves behind us, 
Their watery way before, 

The wintry surge, thnt dashes 
Against the rocks they trod, 
Their memory, and their ashea— 
Bo thou their guard, O God! 


We would not, Holy Father, 
Forsake this hallowed apot, 
Till on that shore we gathor 
Where graves and griefa aro noty 
The shoro where true devotion 
Shall rear no pillared shrine, 
And see no other ocean 
Than that of love divine, 





OBNTANNIAL ODR. 
Written for the Second Omtonntal Udebration of the Ndithee 
mans of Boston, Naplomber \1th, uid, 
Break forth in song, yo treoa, 
As, through your tope, the broose 
Sweeps from the sea! 
For, on its rushing wings, 
To your cool shades and springs, 
That breeze a people brings, 
Exiled though free. 
‘Ye ninter hills, lay down 
Of ancient oaks your crown, 
In homage des ic 
These are the great of earth, 
Great, not. by kingly birth, 
Great in their well proved worth, 
Firm hearts an true, 


These are the living lights, 
That fren your bold, green heights, 
Shall shine afar, 
Till they who neme the sama 
Of Freshen, vowned the flats 
Come, as the Mavi came 
Towar! Setuletera's ser, 
Gone are theme great a4 ger, 
Why bere. i. peril, curd 
Aud raved their hyinn, 
Pease ts the reverend JenA' 
The light. that ou their head 
Tee busied year have vin, 
hal) weer grow dit 
Ye temnplen. that wy G-A 
Baw where ur feben te}, 
Guard we) your ret, — 
The fate. tust direst tue ws, 
Toe trwits. tet tarde tsar: fren, 
Tunis euerinierd purity. 
Toes guruere) Cue. 
Thor ing aed diy “soe, 
Warne care fur eirs wus evn 
Al: ature file 
Wie dey aunt vend aut evar, 
Wake rage wer reeset, muvee, 
O, Lg rey 
On Site ow ule. 





Mew BLE 

Morven: Marve ie OLA Pepe: 
TEL Bt Ue yu 7S san Bik Yor 
MBIT. We eect TurUe tu pesos yun Sf 
bang We wae wrt nt Pilate < 
STS. ie wae cures sumetrese x a ie 
DUS w et oun ot a page ou ae 
ues GF tue ew maging iy pois Bul Itewe 
que, ie eet Ament 8 wisote 
ie wes iis cit 1 oui if tit doy. 

















it 
E 


i) 


i 


singers, 
of which were severally prom 


volent disposition, 1) his com; much 
sought and ated. aid 















ube 


bedubal 





Aa 


has related the story of his accom 

this line in so charactoristic a manner, ina 

to Dunlap, pes in his “ History 

of ee pobre = 
once as our asa 

ear tiation " - 


‘TO WILLIAM DUNLAM, 7G. ~ 
New Yonr, July 11, 188% 
1 son happy to ear thet youn weak ua 
am happy to hear that your work on 
riean Dati i'n jr, dad tr that yon 6 
realize from it that harvest of fame aod 
which your untiring industry and diversified 
give you an eminent claim. “ You desire me ta 
nish you a list of my dramatic its 
my sir, constitute a sorry in the chnis 
American writers—my plays have all been ad cap 
tandum; a kind of amateur : 


Shite 
hiat 


the bills of the pla; “Tine,” as you 
fas teen te a re raed ry 
in which there is more fn¢ Ny ” 


whistle” is constantly heard in the the 
people; but which, in our ent, 
Imost us for the more soft and agreeable 
‘translation of the conceptions of 7, the 
pure diction of genteel comedy, or the Gaiety, 


Thad an early hankering for the national drama, 


a kind of juvenile |, Which burst forth, for 
the first time, in a few sorry do, in the form of 
a pro to a play, which o com fe 
of which I was a member, in the 


delphia. ‘The idea was probal tho 
sigh of tho Federal pee stony Aah ona 


i d the motto: an exeell ° pleco of palate 
an tan ent 
ing of the kind, representing a group of yenerable 





























2gee . ? F| 43 
lef f] Fiat dh 

4 4 eet an 

ge geist: & 

alte wi il : 
Hele: ieee EEE 
Hale llee lg it HIF ar aia eall ls 
i He Taal qeteis aia; TF HE oe f2z3: |e 
te ih a ul any 4 lt f ‘i tn Hf 
: a degen gai HE RUG ge 
ase ae : Hae d is Fe Bl ; 
fe cae! a i 
AEE ii a alede HI 


g ra 
eee i Ni THEIR PEE aiaa |i 


Dr. 











or an 
ee 4 aut 
HO ea Een 
Ee | ce BERG ines An a i] 
ae aaP ae adylee 24Le 
jis si UHe Timer AEG ie 
= Ta papain B sauttte 
1 i a al : He ie ait i: cre 
ad 4 stele faa 
its pete fli aa 
gee bas sess BSges uw FOOT gaas 
Bieter Bla 
ie! 






hail meal dei 

















saues tif j 
Hae 

ena Ea | 

; i lll 5 Ute 3 
nee i (fe Beil 
Te ‘ails i, a 

; in — dulvarinel (ueina 
Ean a eS 
Ha ce ia ies Mul 
a Ra ae 
3 a s Seige s 2eke 
eu sa uae aM anit i in 
Pies eds a sue 


au LE sat 
HITE ih Z 
al ae ital BT aie eiuialt at 











‘Mid you rich clouds’ vol 
trot to fae blow al 
it rest, to wa 
oc tua to bathe ud revil 


With trembling drops of light is hung. 
Now on Nature—yet the sume— 
Gling with is by Drees fanned, 
Luxuriant, lovely, as she came, 

Freeh in her youth, from God's own hand. 
Hear the rich music of that voice, 
Which sounds from all below, above ; 
She calls her children to rejoice, 

And round them throws her arms of love, 
Drink in her influence; low-born care, 
And all the train of mean desire, 
Refuse to breathe this holy air, 

And ‘mid this living light expire, 


ON LISTENING TO A CRICKET. 


Tove, thou little thing, 
To hear thy per re noise ; 


‘Thou canst not now drink dew from flowers, 
Nor sport along the traveller's 
But, through the winter's weary 
Shalt warm thee at my lonely |. 
And when my lamp's decaying beam 
But tiny shows the loti | page, 
Rich with some ancient poet's dream, 
Or wisdom of a purer age,— 
‘Then will I listen to thy sound, 
And, musing o'er the embers pale, 
With whitening ashes strewed around, 
‘The forms of memory unveil; 


Recall the say sored dreams, 
That Fancy fondly weaves for youth, 
When all the bright illusion seems 
‘The pictured promises of truth; 
Perchance, observe the fitful Tight 
sabia each 
mi some pleasures, 
May lighten thus life's varied Boag” 
| 
! 





* Wo have followed in this account r 
sexist lured sleoly in tls mont ee 
‘the Christian Examiner for November, 1508, 1 














8 it 2f anny ne gs § : uae fips bg ace? Es paaia® $igsyeaeeet 
Gee ake 
sider dal gahlle (ly anita die ad! 

ile fille voi Abou ab Tala 
ia He a bis te 

Besa atin ld: daidupe! phe bdeehaly 
ET AIMERM RU HUT Tea ane ee 

ae Tatts Ader WDE prayiet 
bea E &k é pigb i 


rn in ¢ 
at the age of 


© Memolr of Bp. England prefixed to bls works. 





Was born in 

1786. He was a 
At the age of seventeen he was at Yale 
and travelled with Dr. Dwi 

vacations. Returning 


By. 
8. 2, September 26, 


aoe 
Ha 
etjecteel 
rae 
Hud 
sceezasze 


: 
| 
a 


| 


g 


F 
4 
i 
i 

5 


“at 
i 
2g 
le 
Fe! 
if 
are 


& 
= 
g 
= 
! 
iF 


: 
i 
fe 





peers Sie iat Ree. Seas 
“1849, 


oie ital ett ee 
in eeeag 








[EEE 


1 


le parte of 
teervation, Shad 
oer hundred ‘ho stud: hat Now, aa to 
who 
tainment. Does more teadane bate ° 


arSirbe thotannd poate yee alta 


his” BEES 





jon. Passages, however, occur 
of pleasing ornament and animation, 4 


Yi» Crag td 


are few and brief. ° The two 


of the 
from “ Kitty” follows, on the plea that “in New 
bare Fanny, in Boston Sukey,} and 

Aes oe pectin ea The 
5e' ne 

on the Death of Decatur was written 
after the intelligence of the Commo- 
was received, and published the day 

& circumstance which not be 


in the collection of his writings. He also wrote 
The Sea + or Gloucester Hoax, » dramatic 
Jeu d’esprit in three acts, published in a pamphlet 
oat Reese 1. Crafts was a constant writer 
for the Courier, and a number of his 
communications, some mere scraps, are printed 
in the volume of his “ writings,” bat for no 
Crafts died at Lebanon Springs, N. Y., Sep’ 
at fe it. 

23, 1826. 


‘MONODY ON THE DEATH OF DECATTH. 


Sweet scented flowers on beauty’s grave 
We strew—but, for the hon brave, 


mt by Witla B, f 


CYCLOPADIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 


7? 

~ = 
~ Lille 
- 


‘The fallen of the wave— 

‘And be the Pall of Glory there! 
Tricolored France ! ‘twas first with thee 
His Beaxas Ses aGlen Saas 


in gore, 
nh thea on th king rat 


Lives in your mind that 
fight, — 


Whi the sea, j 
And found vainly hoped to flee. 
Novw silent, cold, inanimate he lies, > 
Who sought the conflict and achieved the prize. 
Here, sav: pause! The unresented worm = 
iis sot cal though Heeling and inten 
Not e’en his country’s the hero hears, 
The floating streamers that his fame atvest, 
Ald giocy’ lawn with petro 
's sorrows 

Shall blaze eternal on Decatur’s bed. 
Britannia !—noble-hearted foo— 
a Eig ~ fae Sgusn a wee 

0 chre—who ne'er 
Shall meet Dipoartiond on the pu 0 
His pride to conquer—and his joy to save— 
fad coven as in battle brave— 


wae, thy Ts soet hice ta Shae 

And these thy sons whd met 

Shall weep with caaaly Seer the Kare pea 
Fresh \hies graced his Inurel-covered days, 

His mit ae danger—and his harvest, Pier 

Still as he marched victorious o'er the 

It shook with thunder—and it streamed with blood 
He dimmed the bancful crescent of Algiers, os 


ane) lo! the slave ix Fre teh robbers 

ristian conqueror in the savage strife, 

He gave his victims libert; ‘and Life, 

Taught to relent—the infidel shall mourn, 

And the pale crescent hover o'er his urn, 

And thou, my country! young but ripe in grief! 
Who shall coon thee for the! allen ar? 
Thou envied land, whom frequent foes assnil, 
Too often called to bleed. or to prevail; 
Doomed to deplore the gallant sons that save, 
And follow from the triumph to—the grave, 


Death seems enamoured of a glorious eae 
The chieftain conquers ere the victim dies 

Tilustrious envoys—to some brighter sphere 
They bear the he which they here, 


War slew thy Lawrence! Nor when bleet with 


Did then thy sufferin, bts a at 
‘The eral: whe the live bore, 

in the wave—to grovt his home no more: 
He sunk, alas !—blest with a triple wreath, 
The modest Shubrick met the shaft of death, 





87 
Toses, 
zs 
ae 
always did 
ornate 


Say, 
of a 
never 
my 
own poetry, and destroyed 





brows 
that, ha’ 
I 


too. 


on lates and wreathing 
Sheep 
fgg dort 
cae rpm” AG tire of 


vietorious sleep, 
of the deep, 
‘always to their country dear, 
ive lustre on his lowly bed. 





aayt : af 1 3 Fs Ba 2 
i Cael Ha 
Hei eee | : slate 
ai te vy ahi 


ee ial a 


sues Bt 


nell Haid 
ba23 


ae Lb) 








Te 


ies 





——— 

























yee) wre 
i HB 
cura inl 
Time tth Le 
Li ae 
ioapila edgeplay apusi nities 
Pr EEreas rere ee we soyscalitg etic, ia 
A iii! Had a bead i : Si liinils 
; e Sb Bs MS ge eabgze gig Sas S493a 6. £ g.2 EERE: 
Ree (UE is ie Mie 
Ur EEE LEE LS Ee ero eer ee ff ii Guee 
su: fe cEMs. rallied idielss Ghali aidiptics 
ATH er byialiials flatly Sahat quae! 
ge Pe tile i 
as : wees ne = et? = inh EB “ts. 22 irre 
BiH, (ie Hen u ett ae 
Sc2i' 728 at: ; et rare e : ariel al ia 
Pers RTE fein play ail 

















ee He 


_" ue i Aer Fete a 
jadi iu # in aaa a 
ei at co 

| dail ila ic ei “Ge = ee ji He 
33 4a ‘ weer ERE: 5 Fe 
He Ta i ituit ae “ i: 
£37: Fe Tip? 2a 3 Hand 
i Be 1Ee a a a5 4 ae } He. 
jeait B ae if u ee i i iy di 
F] 


| 


ake of seeing 


tion 
in the ofios of his cots Francie Dana 
the eldest brother of Dr. Channing. After admis- 
sion to the Boston 
months in the office 
Baltimore, where 
WF ihe lewilatare 
is et eerary ‘pearance 
orator on the Fourth of July celebration of 1814. 
The North American Review was commenced 
in 1815. Tt grew out of an association 


became editor of the 


write as a poet and philosopher, and publish as a 
he must pay as well as compose. 

t, with whom Dana had become ac- 

inted in the conduct of the North American 

view, wasa contributor of several poems tothe 

Idje Man; and when this publication was disoon- 

tinued Dana wrote for his journal, the New York 

Review of 1825, and afterwards the United States 

Review of 1826-7. In the latter he published ar- 


anes, committed to them. ‘This not 
Bat pretty near in tet eelr iden of thet moeinton ane 
was Professor of Rhotorle 











which he has Seiki SY repeated in those 
and delivered at Phi hia and elsewhere. — 


notice of the historical romance of Yorktown, in 
Bryant's United States Review,t snd the 
on Religious Controversy in the Spirit of the 


These are the last public incidents of Mr. Dana’s 
literary career; but in private the influence of his 
tastes, conversation, and choice Ii 
pondence, embraces « liberal field of activity. He 

his time between his town residence at 
and his country retirement at Cape Ann, 





Mr. Dana's Residence. 


where he enjoys a roof of his own in a neat n! 
rine villa, tly situated in a niche of 
coast. Constant to the untiring love 
nature, he is one of the first to seck this haunt 
spring and ng as to rere se autumn, 
is Wri possess kindred qualities in 
and verse; ‘ht and rhythm, speculation 
imagination being borrowed by each from 


The Buccaneer is a philosophical 5a 
be the heart and the conscience. 

2 though in remote perspective to 

imaginat appeals on iat. eecanae the 

to our own usness. His 

morse is touched with consummate art as the 


deat chi pace 


ba 


Tottnaeon 1590, 


3H 198, 


* On Pollok’s Course of Timo, 1884. 
Sey, ae, Natura tory ot 


ia 
t j, 189. 


ii 














CYCLOPADIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 


rae. Theis chute tor fae oe 
i ail mae + 





Last night was fearful Fe eaunot hear thy wail, . 
Fe ea rettias oaks sires inne Whom thon didst lull with fondly murmured sound 
An ugly gash!—These rock—they cut lke steel.” | His couch is cold and lonely in the ground. 

He wiped his axe; He fell for Spain, —her Spain no tore, 

foetal ps Fea bn a pave wind apna aeere : 

“The hemp is saved; the man is drowned, ‘And she would seek some distant shore,” 
Pan oP 

find his ase His voice of love should call her thence away. 

Lee's waste greater than hi Lee feigned him grieved, and bowed him , 

«Ti try the merchants trade" he Recnil joy bis heart could be bat aad 

“Though loss the toil to kill than feign — So good a lady in her woe, 

‘Things sweeter robbed than hought _ He meekly, smoothly said. 

But, then, to cireamvent them at their arts!” With wealth Sen ae ‘ 
Ship manned, and spoils for eargo, Lee departs, And that white stoed she rode beside her 

‘Tis ‘The sun down upon the sea; 

ed bo tine tant rear The shadows gather round hor home, 

Beneath, unsounded, eaves; “ How like a pall are ye to me! 

“A panded , ony, Wotrens uf Bouin. atiove Ba Koad 

‘mid this solemn deeds are done , blow, ye flowers ti, 
eRe oe Ye will not blow o'er me when I am dead.” 

‘i And now the stars are : 

en ied area rast ett het ting toward be ad 

‘There's awe from that lone ocean-bird : ond the waters black in night, 

Pray ye, when ye 1 Shas Ne oe eepdlng Pete ! 52 
“Leave y cries . , Waves, yet Beem . 

to priests," eries Lee: “Tm ruler | And'pim alonescaice know I -wheréT go”) |! 


“ee eas ln 9 caiman arog Sleep, sleep, thou sad one on the sea! 


‘The wash of waters lulls thee now ; 


—_— 





: 
: 
E 
i 
i 


iS] 

d 

iH 
i 
H 
i 


Eee 
Hi 
ri 
a 
A 


lx 
fe 
aay 
bge 
ze8 
Ese 
i 
LH 
e 


a 
H 


we lot our gain 
hed know, what's fairly got? 
work! Who says "twas not?” 


ail 
He 


i 
‘ 
rif 
a 
z 
f 


"Tho devil keeps 
“Lee chents!" cried Jack, Lee struck him to the 


heart, 
“That's foul!” one muttered.—" Fool! you take 
your part! 
“The fewer heirs, the richer, man! 
‘Hold forth 


CYCLOPAEDIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 


“Where ail fry bought ad 

Heaven mi kane one 
Forsake your evil ways, as we forsook 
Our ways of ain, and honest courses took! 


oud etre ou ee, tea , 


‘Theirshouts grow loud. “Tis nearmid-hour of night! 
What means upon the waters that red light ¥ 


A ship! and all on fire!|—hull, 


and mast, 
Her sails are sheets of flame !—she's nearing fast! 


And now she rides upright and 
Shedding a wild and lurid light, 
Around the cove, on inland 
Waking the gloom of night. 
All breathes of terror! men, in domb amaze, 
Gaze on each other in the horrid blaze, 


It scares the sea-birds from their nesta ; 
‘They dart and wheel with deafening sereams ; 


leams, 
Fair Light, thy looks strange alteration wear 
‘The world’s wie ecoodurten wig now its fearl 
And what comes up above the way 
So ghastly white! A head 
A horse's head! (May Heaven save 


Those looking on the 
‘The waking oad) ‘There, on the sea he stan 
‘TheSpectre-Horee! He moves! he gains the : 


And on he specds! His sides 
Are streaming with wcold blue ight. 
Heaven keep the wits of him who rides 
The Spectre-Horee tt 
His path is shining like a swift ship's wake. 
Before Lee's door he gleams like day's gray break 
The revel now is high within ; 
It bursta upon the midnight air 


RICHARD HENRY DANA. 





ii. . i riser. eee i 
ee J of §.4 igi t i ibe i 21 Bis a. ob ak ij Fi 
ba 52 2 gediz S545. 3; §. vRE a ER4: 52 £5 
Fea aL aa a aa 
Biabag Eoavyg iaceed amet aif: bi pe itlaes qigts let gia ped 
fm ilk padlin: ere Liat qian rel 
tee deur aed ide ueatie be ve fone Wn tt 
rf ce UN antl eh Hee ue rene a 
“i | ars) Ef aa 5 
aE. Ta oe 1s alloy st Gy Ok 
bth duh ah padi i, 4 baw 
teers 8 ii i 4435 cf Glasi 2: Road ta 
eee ip Huh it Gari it UW 
ip lal a Beate iy £31 HHI ay: ie e : ii Ef i 
Ce 
ai; ii ; i igs ae 
Hi; su eae ei au un aft si a i uuu 
4< ae ze i és a8 5 ‘ 


But still at heart there lies a secret fear; 
For now the year's dread round is drawing near. 


ve 
t 
i 
ah 
FE 


e8 
a 
F 


Le 
ze 


FETE 
ay 


ze 
EF 
Hy 


rT 
tt 
u 
5 
iy 
EE 
Fi 
iB 


fF 
L 
l 
i 
i i 


' 
Z i 
E 
i 


ze 
eis 
iM 
iz 
E 


E 
Hi 
E 
2 
E 
5 


FQ 
1 


g 
by 
i 
= 
a 
i 
i 


E 

EEE T 
é 
5 


i 
Hl 


8& 


HE 
ae 
gee 
gre 
eaa 
ui 
FF 
i 


i 
' 
5 


z - 
aS 
4 

#1 


eles beet 
He shook,—" You know the Spirit-Horse I ride! 
me on the sea with none beside!” 





And where the far-off sa 
‘Their backs in 
‘The breakers _ and + 


ee Tye 
up the 
‘sabrina Wie tee WOH heavy beat 
wi ee ed it bey 
ith savage roar, then pause er strength, 
Mody theo, scene taunt in es petllen tapes 
But he no more shall haunt the beach, 
Nor sit the tall cliff's crown, 
Nor e round of all that reach, 
Nor feebly sit him down, 
Watch ing the eres ing ee cess 
And he'll have gone far hence that 
To-night the charmed number's told, 
“Twice have I come for thee,” it said, 
“ Once more,and none shall thee behold. ~ 
Come! live one!—to the dead."— 
So hears his soul, and fears the night ; 
Yet sick and weary of the soft, calm 


way. 


Shafter were, tere aie eee pals 
Horse. 
Not long he waits. Where now are gone | 
Penk, and tower, that stood | 
Beautiful, while the west sun shone, 
And bathed them in his flood. 
phe !—Sadden darkness fell ; 
And down they went, peak, tower, citadel. 
‘The darkness, like a dome of stone, 
Ceils up the heavens, ‘Tis hush as death — 


al 














‘University of North Carolina 


in the means of accommodation and 

and tothe Faculty. The college buildings are now 

éix in number, on a beautiful and eom- 

tanding site, so as to form a hollow square, in- 
a 

aaaket 


area or lawn surrounded by groves 
The grounds are tastefully dis- 
with choice shrubs and 







Mineralogy, a native of 
of Yale Oollege, has 
the Institution for thirty- 
seven years; and Dr, Phillips, Professor of Mathe- 
M Natural Philosophy, a native of Essex 

, England, has filled resent chair for 

“nine years. Professorships of Civil Engi- 

ee heal Chemistry have late- 

¥ ‘The ent of Law is an- 
Ja oes (ee HL aiaie, ond of 

t prema rt, and a regular 
of lectures on international and constitu- 
delivered to the Senior undergra- 
the close of their second term by 


i ond grounds bas deen 
Bis The tir SF the venerable 


i 





In 1837, the Trustees, with a liberality at that 
time without example, authorized the Faculty to 
mltuit gratuitously to the advantages of the Insti- 
tation, all young men of fair character and ability 
who are natives of tho state, and unable to defray 
the ex incident to a college education. 
About fifteen have annually availed themselves 
of this liberality, many of now with 
honor p) trust their fellow citizens, 

The number of Alumni who have attained dis- 
tinetion in publie life will compare favorably with 
those who have gone forth from similar instita- 
tions in any part of the Union. At the last an- 
nual Commencement, six ex-Governors of thisand 
other states were in the procession of the Alumni 
Association. A nomervus inter inci- 
dents connected with the history of the Cniver- 
sity, which were presented in the course of a lee- 
tare delivered in the hall of the House of Com- 
ions since the beginning of the present session, 
it was remarked that among the alamni of the 
college were one of the late presidents, Polk, and 
one of the late vice-presidents of the United States, 
W. R. King; the present Secretary of the Navy, 
James ©. Dobbin, and the Minister to France, 
John ¥. Mason; the Governor, the Public Trea- 
surer and Comptroller, two of the threes Supreme 
and six of the seven Superior Court Judges, the 
Attorney-General, and nearly a fourth of the 
members of the General Assembly of the state of 
North Carolina. 

It is not less noticeable that among the distin- 
guished clergymen of various denominations who 
received their academical training in these Halls, 
and who are at present prominently before the 
public, the institution can refer to one whose re- 
putation is established at home and abroad as a 
model of pulpit eloquence—the Rev. Francis L, 
Hawks, to five Bishops of the Protestant Epis- 
eopal Church, with which he is connected—J, H. 
Otey of Tennessee, Leonidas Polk of Arkansas, 
Cicero 8, Hawks of Missouri, W. M. Green of 
ape Thomas F. Davia of South 





a it 


bute 


3S 


Hang 
i : ' 





é 


va 





32 
re 


ee 
and in 
is consti 


Crs 





William Ja; 


tings 
Niner 
x. 


, born Jang 


ane 
on the 
t of the delegates 


John Jay, the son of William 


Slay. 


graduate of Columbia 
author of several 


23,1817, 0 
eave 


= 
in 


pies 

Hau 

Hi 

"hake! 
£2$493aS2222ese7i2¢seg33 
ero atrietn | rer 
filial iBal 
(Rua uin ata 
adil Hs i] 
AE 2: vi Hae 
i a: TH ana i 
& sof oe sa ases . 
He 


oe years, 
literature, 


a. 
ona 





’d mimio of the woods! thou motley fool! field of his A hety annette 
shall th \nrchli nscn' st tpi In 1811 he resigned his commission, married 
ch Jen atl) ith jest and gibe Miss @ member of an old and leading 
Wit, , Yonica of thy ope toes of hla ile iene 
" e teibo, present western diocese, ari 

Seite oe ee tled down toa home life in the villago of Mama- 
Arch-mocker and mad Abbot of Misrule! Sanh, the city of New York. It was not 
For such thou art by day—but all night long long that, almost accidentally, his literary 
Thou A soft, sweet, pensive, solemn strain, career commenced. He had been reading an 
"An hou didi? in this thy mooslight song English novel to his wite, when, on laying mse 
Like to the melancholy Jxcques the book, he remarked that he od iat he 
Boag on ficou. vice ‘wrong, could write a better story himself. He forth- 
And for thy motley cont again. with proceeded to test the matter, and produced 
Precaution, The manuscript was he 
na hae eS informs us, without any intention of publication, 
jt pm he mori wie i rt Char Won eh Be 

" es, in 
es rei gg oeeation al placed confidence, to issue the work. Tt 

Yet on the rose's humble bed bah poeaiee 
‘The sweetest dews of night are shed, ish ion is. story on the old pattern of Eng- 
As if she wept the waste to soo— rural life, the scene alternating between tho 
But none shall weep a tear for me! hall, the parsonage, and other upper-class regions 
life is like the leaf of @ country town, A scene on the deck of a 
Wien ete te pua cence pale nay aap rahe cftne Petsce Sais porkytiaal- 
Its hold is frail—its date i briet SDcigacy Ks oh tespectalin ncwel, eaehes ite 
Restless—and soon to pass away ! 4 novel, offering little 
Yet, ere that lenf shall fall and or no for comment, and was slightly valued 

trea will mourn its shade, then or ands by its author. 


My life is like the printa, which feet 
¢ left on Tarmpa’s desert strand ; 

Soon as the rising tide shall beat, 

All trace will vanish from the sand ; 
Yet, as if grieving to offace 
All of the race, 
On that lone shore loud monna the sea, 
But none, alas! shall mourn for me! 





ly 
that place in 1679. His father, Judge William 
Cooper, was born in Pennsylvania, whither a por- 
tion of the family had removed, but in carly life - 
selected the old family home at Burlington as Seat 


his residence. He was a man of “aaa g a 
I Fen rn ore eure 





in the 

formed to whieh he gave the naine of Coopers- In 1821 he published The , @ Tale of the 
and in 1790 removed his family thither. | Neutral Ground, a region familiar to him by his 
the leading man of the place, and in 1795 | residence within its borders. Harvey Birch, the 
709 represented the district in Congress, spy, is a portrait from life of a revolutionary 
Tt was in this frontier home surrounded by patriot, who was willing to risk his life and to 
and ate ad Heke tis -abatncter’ ta fee ponicy esa 

venturous settlers, hardy ra, mn rem- serv! country. He appears in 
Tndign tries who were once novel a8 a pedlar, with a keen we to trade as 
the domain, that the novelist passed well as the movements of the enemy, The 
Heep boa te Hip thirteen ts yeas Ttwasa good claim of Enoch Crosby, a native of Danbury, 
for bis future calling. At the age men- | who was employed in this manner in the war, 

| 


H 
fe 
é 


tioned he entered Yale Coll @ re- | to be the original of this character, has been set 
mained three years, notwithstanding | forth with much show of probability by a writer, 
his youth a position in his class, when he | Captain H. L. Barnum, in a small volume entitled 
obtained a V's comm entered The Unmasked, containing an interesti 


, but the matter has never been define 
tively settled, Cooper leaving the subject in doubt 


2F 
i 
Ag 
i 
if 
iE 


Iyer hs ne tema mao ae 


and wine; 
and a schooner, 
iba to the Line. 


iblished in 1829, was The 
Wept of Wish-ton- Wish. He was in Paris at the 
breaking out 





EE 
Hl 
ee 


ab 
nl 
= 


ut 
i 
4 
i 


i 
LE 


i 
j 
i 


52 
{i 


opponents as well as i many W 
expressing no opinion on the points at issue, wer 
sispeaed a degsn Bits os Bay rovoked & 
troversy for the gratification is taste for 


cussion, Itwas during this divided state of, 


| pe that the novelist re 





Well 


He 
i 
rf 
i 


i 
i 
te 
i 


& 
r 
+ 
a 


iH 
fh 
; 
i 
& 
i 


Somers, 

novel, Satanstoe, published in 1845, 
was the first of a series avowedly written to 
denounce the anti-rent doctrines which then at- 
iblic notice. The scene of Satans- 
toe is laid in the district in which the 

question took 

jon carries us back 


! 
E 
E 
u 
B 
F 


: 
2 
F 
2B 
S 
: 


- 
Ay 
“ 
ist 
ft 
i 


LEE 

i 

; 

; 8 
i 2 
= ES 
oe a 
bysetey 


Ue 

a 7 
: 
E 
a 
H 
; 


a, 
- 
i 
ia 
iit 
i 
aly 
$= 


wrecked on a reef, which, 





© Bryant's T lscourse, p. 66. 





» fiving the oppor 
yt eat his vw of goer 


iT or the agen of Grea Magazin 
a 
the resembling in its points of inte- 
lhe Water’Witehs © 


‘after the publication of this work, , 
whose appearance excited uni re- 


exhibited, was attacked by di-ease. This, while 
it wasted his frame, did not diminish his ie 
Java gh ra cite eh 
Towns of Manhattan, and in contemplation a 
sixth Leather-stocking tale, when his disease, 
gaining stro deve! into a dropsy, which 
closed his life at his country estate at 

pedelin carrie 1851, on the eve of his ro 
seoond birthday. 

A public meeting was held in honor of his 
memory in the city of New York, and as preli- 
minary to the attempt to raisea fund for a monu- 
ment for the same aes at Metropolitan 
Feb, 24, 1852, Daniel Webster ded, 
made his last address to a New York assemblage. 
A discourse was read bs Wm. ©. Bryant, to 
SINR Te ne a eee ae the pre- 
paration of the present sketch. 


ues 





Otsego Hall. 

Mr. Cooper's residence at Otsego, to which he 
removed his return from a  paaeed ons 
of the hands of his fiunily after was 
converted into a hotel, and consumed by fire in 


attained a wide popular reputation beyond the 








a My ce 





him 


tail into the 


¢ east his 
Eecrucvereetonie around 


wins 
gradu: 


when 





in which 





4 


Mites adi 


ll iB iP He 











igh | the direction 


= if 2 1 Tai ney (ete 
Hie te i 7 Pea aa 
208 fyb a ee ty fhe Lady 
Hele Bee Eo La pai 
Ht a Ue ce HE 
ot bar: : ay re a aah i une eb |S eeeis bs $ 
ihe guS uae Rg REE EGE 
ae pully He bea aan si 


% _ 








Eb 


was reload 
tomahawk 


HE 


ny 


742.43: 
gidgiateziss 
Duin ine 


22g) asragtspiane LN 257 

Au eS { sit 3323 2* . 

da Went 

fie) neh 

ysis 235 ee is: Lat te 3 
. et i Hes lid 


Pe BEES nana ale 
ee 
a 


foe 3 z 3 wai gtedt: g 
Per SrEEH PHLPeePE [EEPPPEEEEn ecrremeee 


and 





i 2 
i ii 


2 atk saat de if 

es egaypagysaana jag) ang pageee? 

Biinlvate Plain. uphln 

feauiinivestigg., pitie6 

Hie neal Hi vipat 

vii Gyaersiltis 238i; tiega 
Hania if 


this time the 


1 
i 
J 
| 


if 
were novel; 


By 











Fs 
anu 
Hae 
i 
: 


Hale 








| His conceptions were submitted to a 
preparation, and took an ii 
three dramatic productions, 


u in, an Italian 
fateh ates a Pie aa 
Pere; 





1 
1 q 
elie vat peel The dialogue in 
ical bea: note ait and imagery : 
poeti ities; with lines iy r 
of the old Elizabethan drama, The 
“ the conversation between Nathan and 


Soon after leaving Coll Hillhouse passed the associations of Hadad, who is “of the 
Passe) gaamn ttc, Bomanscinipe ion fora mer- | blood royal of Damascus,” is in a rich imagins- 
ee "The war proving a otrrption tive vein. 

a oat lg aac . Sanaen Nathan. 1 think thon aaidst he had surveyed the 
other dramatic compositions, After the peace he wal, h k 
in commeree in the city of New York, | of hundred-gnted Thebes, tobered 

1819 visited whero ho saw, among | nd mighticc Nincrol wast Pao 
Stherdistingabed ten, Zachary 3 (the | Serendib anchored by the gutes of morni 
father of the historian), who afterwards of | Renowned Ben where th come enet 
him. to his American friends as “the most | The mystery of the soul, and that famed Ilium 
aceomplished man with whom he was ‘here fleets and warriors from Isles 
heen it Dre this eee retain’ Besieged the Beauty, where great Memnon fell ;— 























it 
aie 





fail i 
ri me ce 
qs E Ga Bys8 - a 

Pisin iat ay pet : 
i il ae a au Fea u ie u 

ae : Sey 

ephleg Pale a2 wail i 
. ‘i (iia ea ued 
ie i paula ce quae 
efiete Sr etii iii uit bse ee He ga 

as i } 
iaeuae Hose ea eu 


(2 


ff 





A pee ita ye peg tegeape at yeaaceny vangreneagais eerpzageege | ¢ 
i iis a rei i Fee ne i aii Al 
3 Rad 453 Ee “a Exge { ei 
seg Hie aaa rt Hs i : 
2 rte | A HEE eet g222283 ; cy ha anu | an Fe 
ie Ra Sera RIL a eet 
H 2 28bes E Corr B 
Rai sa [if neh) init HR aH 2 





JOHN W. FRANCIS. 
Saree 





Spy 
Aa 
i ie # teu 


DaraH 
Hibs 


eed = 





ELIZA TOWNSEND. — 
the ‘bat 
oS Sea as now Sere by tee cn orth 
or ache glahory ery age bd weet 
ment, we are to INCOMPREMESSIEILITY OF 
“1 90 frond, ut ha enh 9 Oopras ‘ond bachéord, but 2 
Where art thont—Tmoet Source and Support 








felt, abel eerste 
Sieh targa hiner One 
9 ‘select Rhrstme gia ie = 
re n ornithological error: And winds,—and ask ifthese are Thee! 
: are The that twinkle on, the et i, 
snares Fhe cane nl ao th 
= ‘The omnipresent and 
gate hailed as gods of old, and only less— 
Nest of Love; Cliffton | Are not the Powor I seck; are thine, not Thee! 
pe pames econ’ t0 to | Task ‘Thee from the past; if in the 
sareeah from 3 ee Sinoe firet hitelligence could search ite soures, 
= Powers of Genius, ma 0; Jk oes eee eee teen . 
amidst the rivulets and groves near pe prayer le oe = 
(reg aa te Re So Sadly lesantod wiih things 
loss of srdells deca And pp ae ‘ 
To the tnnefal Apollo T now moan to hollow! Are deaf and Fatignad, Itara 
irth, yet domesticuted ge havin ee iia the aoe tu 
iy wil 
made vost struggles in his pelle Suactey Sotarte eee Pe: s 


Mount 
feolings is left to conjecture, by the poet's closing Ape pei pierong 
muse, 












Searities, 


It widens, lengthens, 












198 | CYCLOPADIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 





are 
a ver 


branched the 


mamas tensa Berea 


ise Oh ac ode see eres 
i ve ; : 
Anrores bins pecgrees — atom ray rare Hae And then, O Lord, receive me us thine own ! 


Dartmouth oilege. On the 
‘Vast mantle honr, And he began to hear, course in 1809, he studied law at 





At times, the fox's bark, and the fierce howl Litchfield school, comm practice 
Of wolf, sometimes nfnr—eometimes so near, native village, and rapidly rose to such 
‘That in the very glen they seemed to prow! that in 1816 he was one of the 
‘Where now he, wearied, paused—and then hisear | oF the Superior Court of his State. 
Started to note some moeara growl, In 1883 he wns elected Governor, and 
‘That from his snow-clad, rocky den did peer. a member of the Honse of Represontati 
Shrunk with gaunt famine in that tempest drear, he-was made 
Avice alvin pipe taps ed N 
our come, 
He hong he heard the fgets cracking wr aite : 
se Baayen aseyenas itgloom, | time eaiergce and in 1845 
Sched reso rae bo He died at his residen 
pshire, 
Swelled by degrees above the tempest His politi judicial, 
Misra he seers eat ft were cal 
Ce plee leper ea oy hem re ic— 
glanced around, 2 
Aeon he had ins unzrow vals; The 
On either hand a snow-clad rocky heigh 


A swampy dingle caught the wauderer’s sight. “occasional ie 
ee ate woke a his political addresses at popular meet- 
' e 


volume is made up of Argo- 
ments and Charges. The third contains, r 


tread 
plasiabe Borer far night's abode; the Importance of Sci in ns 
Say a the thick branches made Promatie and Uses of teh Mig 





Science, 
sereen above, aad round hic elosely stood for Certain Defects in American Education; 
‘The trunks of cedars, and of pines arrayed 
pha peepee thei ered client; Thee 
on ea ee branches broke, MEANS AND MOTIVES IN AMERICAN vo 
ihe pisses bony on apie fore bepct Print if posibie, yond even the Sie ha 
Farah ear re ily glows, by u steam press now goad eee he 





| 











Hit Braye 

ie fal ills setae sh 

iter in gas fue tail 

Be cree et aay fate 
en ig eee a3 ai BL - 

fe ie nee pel uN te Bi 

pu Piet availa! ale ee bg . it si 

fag praia] fag it i Ss Hine a3 | ele 

Ree acacia Hane cea tal 

sia Bet rae og ote all iat | at 

iia etieait Sauer a, a 

ee el ue ae Haniel : 

Hae a3 PO RHEE . au HITE Hi 

FE ae ail: Hae he 

Tee iil my 

i eee Hui i iB all 

5 fire ie util G re 

sé i238 5 sEe9 | Gib : 

ili 


















‘ = 
ri 
nh i 

aan 5 
Ha tH 
i i el ee nit af 
at i a if he ue a 
# 2 bese a2 23 as 
= 0) RNG at! cur TianTTTT ariel 
gail eitahee: be Ean Gulls ie Hany 
a te Ea eae ation ea He 
Rei eel ieee MMP ee 
ie Ee A Ge WH 
ee a] afar Raa ee i a! Sure tela : 

“ eae fh Ru SRG 


= 





186 CYCLOPADIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 


4 
educated ed merchant of Hartford. | (extending to fifty-six stenzas of nine a 
polesed gages oe bain i over- stay sana the rs pee 
inotlog tin cy, Ware thay resided for nearly | tions. oes abe picture © 
twenty years, ‘ 


isle 
z 
z 
a 


Pe 
a 
ak 
i 
Eg 





title of Srom the West. In 1824 she pub- | E erie 9 ms of 
Th UO] tour A 1 © 
lished ve in prose, A Sketch cy Gonnsotiout the “Memories” are devoted <Seguad wid eer 
Th wed in rapid | land, The poems are Rare les ee and 
succession by Letters to Young Ladies ani occasionally in a sportive vein. During sO 
tors to Mothers, a collection of poem* and of prose | journ in Enrope, ito ralanea eae 
Sep ed Oise Pantapeec tecang | en eee 
oom ater production of the collection Istredtaoes 


doubly noble by 
in his mise scan ahem the Toa 
jonary ex: among the Indians, 
We mest him striving to administer consolation 
by the couch of the dying chicf; beneath the wide- 
im addressing the multitude on the 
ee a the welfare of their souls; 
at his quiet devotions in his tent, watched by as- 
who shrank back from their pu 
rattlesnake glide past his feet 


Z 
Fe 
i 
: 
: 
& 
F 
i 
: 


EE 
z 

i 

4 

2 

a 





ter period 


‘The remaining poems are descriptive of natural LILA 
“contort of date end, et #Fe iv 

PORN CEN Aumaarbuly cis ms. 

. warm ms- 

and with throplo labor of 
eee rons 5 | Seana man 
in 1841 or various cy persons, Was @ 
peared. The Poeahootas 1s one of the longest Bee Seine Nae’ the Queen of the 
Myrtis, swith other Etchings and Sketches, np- 


*. 
York: Lames Ph. 388 © 12:0, pp: 868. 


f 


HL 
i 





© Philadelphia 1684, 12mo., pp. 288, 
New Ime, 
New Dp 








Wide o'er the 

Where the rnde surges 
eee 
‘we meet on the wave. 


Long sa in 


‘of light, 
Aiken oe oe 


by 
Sy § Ed datharten 
of « militia corps of Charleston, whieh h 
lunteered to hati topen rea carta yo? 


Fo MARRY, 
Harry! little blue-cyed ! 
Dinentt bear thes Ernie teak 
‘There's musie in thy shouts of joy 
To a fond father’s ear, 
T love to eee the lines of mirth 
Mantle thy cheek and forehead fair, 
As if oll pleasures of the earth 
Had met to revel there. 
For on thee do 1 
ths most hippy hours wil ex, 
thy full share 
‘Must fall in life to thee. 
My; i bagrsd ‘th i wn nt from 
at it 
ty aay rsa nel gale 
inohen times aoe woe 
‘Thou'lt read it when the churchyard clay 
nth, dead, wl pte the 


x, ! the verdure-crowned 
eee 

‘The mosic of ten thousand rills, 
Will tell thee ’t is not so, 

God is no tyrant who would spread 
Unnumbered dainties to the eyos, 


| 


CYCLOPADIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 


tee iii ee” 


The value and the beauty of the Pas, 


Not ‘aso Warner and a 
A's bend the’ wounding dh tie 
But something never to be put 


A part and parcel of thy present life. 
Not asa distant and a darkened ; 
‘Through which the stars peep, and the moonbeams 
atmosphere whereby 


glow— 
‘But o surrounding 

We live and breathe, sustained "mid pain and woe. 
A Fairy-land, where joy and sorrow kise— 
Each still to 


each corrective and relief— 
Where dim delights are bri into bliss, 
And nothing wholly See 


Ah me! not dies—no more than spirit 
Pi likedeath eaanhed oi wits 
ious angel with entranced eyes 
a euin wg to far off and celestial things, 


JOHN HOWARD PAYNE, 
Ten greene ck Tee 2 eines 
ence. 
litary officer and member of the Provincial 
bly of Massachusetts; and Dr. Osborn, the 
the celebrated w! song, and Rf 

one paste fig of the Declaration of 

the family. His Githes ose 
as a physician under General Warren, beck =| 
shendoned the profession, owing to the 
state of aSbice camed by the Ker aeaee 
came a teacher, a calling in which he attained 
pe re wife, th i Monet's high | 
secon ie danghter of a: 
inhabitant of the ancient villnge of ‘tat Hae 
ton, Long Island, where hist tombstone 
epitaph, “An Teale: indeed, he 
tony e foe fol of Bi het allay & GO 

ma, Ben a 

of cranberries to a friend in % 
with the news of their arriy: 
that the fruit “had all turned so 


en od to ew York, where John Howard 
Payne was born June 9, 1792. He was one of 


|| 


142 CYCLOPADIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 
shoulder upon him. The affair came to an issue 
p toast The 





‘Tho Park Theatre. 


a Theatre ns Young. ieee on a4 even- 
‘ebruary 24, 1809, in his sixteenth year. 
formance, like those of the entire engage- 
highly suecessful. A writer, who had 
k and all the great actors since his 
T have seen Master Payne in Douglas, 


eine 
Hae 


him superior to shee ! 
scene of his Zaphna, which exhibited more 
and sensibility than I have witnessed since 
days of Garrick. He has astonished every- 


eR2s 


stage, and 
per ecamesem, a6 Athe- 
wi e a 
pabli bax Inia, George re- 
Pr Sea rena olgenron ery pl - 
im, and was ve 
kindly treated by the great amet 
him to try his fortane London stage. 


cn 
Drury Lane 





FE 


# 


hit 


fier 





*s 













Ht 

ale 
vik 
it 


oe ee ces oe ee 
mre To be a public prosecutor among 
such ‘a people requires much diseretion and no 
nal degree of courage. When the contest breaks 
out into violence, when arms are used, and a little 
civil war takes place, there are on 
both sides, and he is to avoid himself a 
party with either; when called upon to prosecute 
either he is denounced and often threatened, and 
Beata Spey apy tite 

7 juty, pre 
porvinghis eal 


j 


E 
E 
F 
i 


z 
: 
F 
1 
i 
AL 


i 
iG 
ej 
Hee 
it 


tion, olan Gta. ae 
three when a change 
took acy tho drei courts wer abl and 
t of of same 
Pt the Wegiatare is was chested Sate 


pul , and for which he wrote 
nearly all the poem, history, eriti- 
cism, gossip. 


In 1838 Mr, Hall removed to Cincinnati, his 
present residence, having lived in Illinois twelve 
years. Ho has since 1836 been engaged in finan- 
i aE ATR, Deve. a8 Figek The, onbiar of 

ercial Bank, and sinee 1858 the presi- 
t of another institution bearing the same name, 

‘The series of Mr. Hall's numerous publications 

commenced with his contributions to the Port 


were published in the Port Folio. They were 
* written in the character of a youth travelling for 
amusement, ine the rein to a lively fancy, and 





sly rogue,” and wonder 
man was as funny on the bei 
author never allowed the book to 


adventure, and humor of the 4 
1829 he edited and secured the publication of 
‘eatorn Souvenir, in imitation of the elegant 
Half of the matter was 


FA 


virgin state, the resources of which were as 
yet all tobe developed. It was eontinned for two 
years, and served well its liberal 

















al f ih is 


Pew, H Lotus corny 


at New York, is marked by a vein of unaffected 


simplicity and enthusiasm which has been 
characteristic of the author. It was ished 
in London in Sir Richard Phillips's ion of 


‘Voyages and Travels; and has been lately reissued 

ee ree enareel form with the title, 
and Adventures inthe Semi-Alpine ri bv 

of the Ozark Mountains of Missouri and Ar: 

a4, which were first traversed by DeSoto in 1541, 

His next tour was in 1820, under the. jiees of 


Monroe's ition, accompanyin, neral 
Cass in his of the copper oe and ex- 
ploration of the i |. He published 


River. In 1821 he journeyed to Chieago, exa- 








FE 


Soclety i 


me 
Ps 





ae 
= 
3 


| of the spirits of earth and ae ate a 


seins showing an affinity with the fi 
of the northern races of 











156 CYCLOPADIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 


an active being that must be strengthened to think 
and to feel—to dare, to do, and to suffer. Tt is as a 
germ, expanding under the influence certainly of 
air and sunlight and moisture, but yet only through 
the ageney of an internal force; and extern! ageney 
is of no valne except as it elicits, and controls, and 
perfects the action of that force, He only who can 
rightly appreciate the foree of this principle, and 
carry it out into all its consequences, in the spirit. of 
Sheng Her le, wil doll tat elon the 

ws, will do ngs to the 
office of a teacher. ~ 


With the same good sense he remarks :— 


There is a mags slowness in assenting practi- 
cally to that great law of nature, that the faculties 
are strengthened only by exercise. It is so with the 
body, and it is co with the mind. If a man would 
strengthen his intellectual faculties, he must exercise 
them; if he would improve his taste, he must em- 
per it on the objects of taste; if he would improve 
his moral nature and make progress in goodness, he 
must perform acta of ness. Nor will he im- 

ve his faenities by thinking about them and stu- 

ing into their nature, unless by so doing he is 
enabled and indneed ‘to put them into more skilful 
and efficient action, 


This practical mode of philosophizing, seeing 
moral and intellectual truth in connexion with its 
individual adaptations, is a marked habit of the 
author's mind, and admirably adapts him for the 
chair of the professor or the government of a 


By the triennial catalogue of Williams College 
of 1853, it that there have been one 
thousand four hondred and forty-four alumni to 
that date: of whom four hundred and forty have 
followed the profession of divinity; three hundred 
and eighty-one the law; one hundred and seven 
wnedicine; and peas geet havo become teachers. 
Besides the 


Ree of instruction, the 
physical sciences” particular attention. 








Careful magnetic observations are made , 
students; and the mineralogical and ogical 
cabinets, prepared by Professor Ebenezer Em- 
mons, eminent for his state geological sn 
afford full materials for study. The n 
also two colossal bas-reliefs from Nineveh, | 
sented by Mr, Layard, - 
The bold and picturesque Iocation of the col- 
lege seems to invite to the | of nataral 
nomena, Seated at the foot of Saddleback, ' 
grandest mountain clevation in the in a fair 
valley watered by the Hoosae, and at 
ern. termination of Berkshire, a county ren - 
ble for its grandeur and beanty, the site is: o 
to be associnted with the choicest acadetiic 5 
finements of science and literature.* — 


EDWARD HITCHCOCK, 


Epwanp Hrroncock was born at Deerfield, Mas 
suchnsetts, May 24, 1798. In consequence of il 
health, he was compelled to leave College before 
taking his degree. He commenced a literary ea- 
reer by the preparation of an almanac for four 
years, from 1815 to 1818; and by the publication 
of a orphan = one bund: “ sana me 
pages, The ‘alt of Buonaparte, in 1816. In 
1816, he pede totnesfed acta in Deer- 
field, where he remained for three when bo 
was ordained minister of the tional 


Octurevxd Heth 


charch at Conway, Mass. He resigned this post 
in 1825 tu accept an appointment to the Profee 
sorship of Chemistry and Natural History in Am- 
herst College, an institution whieh had beer 


* Bketehes of Williams Coll wi + 
Aa Geena tern to tet aes eee 


A, Wells and 8, H, Davia 




















y 
Aaa SIE 


; 

i 
PE 
au 


i 
i 
iH 


i 
i 
i 








Ta 
bel 
i) 
Be2F 
alll 
ti 


‘ 

: 
il 
4 


g 
g 
é 
i 
E 
Ff 


i 


i 
te 
: 
I 
5 


ES 
u 


W was added in vi 
it wr gc yet The Works of 7 

Franklin 5 aoniataing Gas Political His- 
torical Tracts no nek nm former En | 
herve oy ished 2 with “a and a of the 
Author, ‘The Life was a careful pig 


numerous letters to Franklin, from his distin~ 


Be terete two Washington yarns 


denes appeared at the of 1 
Correspondence of the ‘eastution bobeg 


_ ae 














g asuyuerynaaqen Qanaptiny HTN teegg 

HH Rant sini 

i puundail ie tiek pe 

: aes tl Ba fl ian 
‘isl uta dali lili 
ie aie pit ea Hee ; ae 

fe HMM in Si Hdl 
Ren ER ea 
. : ) cal Se i 























EF es 3 ey HAA Pa tj. 
EE ay 
TTT [Ps Ree PEELE 
in at fe ee an | 
Ei Pee GR ae nucle ns 
Tei ne ane HE Saree neste 
S 1g Besse £533 Feu faye? aig ord 
ae aii re ce paniuiias , ibs 
ede Suet Slee auniee a ae 
| i | i LIne WCET 
Hau at eh ia 
rea eae Baul iH ay 
ae pie IAHBUME HE 


il 


' 




















yee Hie iw Hi fie We a i 
Ali He i Ba uf! ne a int He : Me 
a iy BT ee ie tat i whan eee Ait 
1 Halil i cH 4 alin Huiaeilal HIG ay 
ie fe fe ea it 
ili ee ae sige | ny iii ii i: i fle 
ead He 
ie ae aan im om i 
: un falling Enh pinta 
ft i dee etat LT GUI Hii i 
ee 2 zis qiitiees! oy a §isaae 5 is 
i ii saeaiiteacaitsiqieieiie scieatalds Ghia 1G i 
He i i E a a He iF if z Hi ire fa 
i Py Hine iu AL fine ahi HG 


] 
SEB Eee ee 
abil ul Har aa ile an Han pile 








#8434 (aan sabe) 
i fa fie it ne aie in 4 if ait if sl 
a] 2H Haecuis ff ie Ae ay leat 
PGR pene Un tele di 
THEE EL Ute er ee de ain) st 
uy [Maegan Se Ge te 
# 3 3e3 is ‘ Ae ig 1 Hh 3 dae Hi 4 
aa aa lps) A oe xt at JURE 








Hie | RUT Haut Ip 
st che allt ay i 
es ai - ths eH estkbs 3 ite #3 i, : grate = iis 
gifts iia less | gis. Hi 3 eezenee a Bie u 

ie itd aH ea ene liig a 
LR i Gaunt tat ve Ha 
igus i nek nbslitiia 
e Hil aba a A ale iN aga ‘ig BENG HEE 





Tn 1882, Mrs, Gilman commenced the publica- 


tion of the Rose a jnvenile news- 





CYCLOPADIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE 








Th thi i 
rp aaa Deir ak 

The pfeil ys leaves, 
Are all before me now. 


The lon; moss hangs gracefully, 
Idly Eewine its wreath : 
Or stop to catch the fragrant air 
The frequent blossom es, 
Life wakes around—the red bird 
Like flame from tree to tree; 


The robin whistles. free, 


The itened hare seuds 
hie eras 
ja 1 hicl LF 
‘Thence peeps with careful pas 7 
The humming-bird, with busy win; 
ris copa beaut ee e 
ve the trumpet-blossom floate, 
And sips the tube he love, 
Triumphant to yon withered 
here bullde Py ra the clouds, 
ere © 
And man and Maral defies 
The hunter's bugle echoes near, 
ean ing) it epee it the woods, 
led howlings, scen: 
Or — the Doeacriaiaa 
Yon skiff is darting from the cove, 
And list the pedi 
‘The theme, his owner hia 
While glide the crow along. 
*ourne : 
ol 2 pede Ke Amertean Bevolution, volt 








ca Se ee nce, Bdaty, air Desrtoms foe. 
mona. Both of the poems 1 It 
way ie Pdi tnt es ca x 


4 
f 
i 
i 


EpeEEl ee 
i 
i 
i 
t 


i 
i 
tt 
i 
if 


ain 
Throughout the year, and in the dawn of 
At pleasant Late their unknown roerioe 
Coie suddenly to view with lively notes, 
ron wares: regen in tisk groves ve 

warmer ons, ‘es were seen, 
eos wit theic einer ramed, Cob Geran 
lustre, sitting mute, 


Ie que of oi Mizader the beary 


—& 
: 
i 


clouds, 

oft hung, 
watery store, 

with motion nnobserved, 

opening, white with snow ap- 





lato Pastor of the 
with ® Memotr of 
Bv0. pp. 630. 








ey 
Ea 





ay 
i 
Hi 


Hy 
: 
i 
; 
z= 
3 


i 
i 
ne 
cy 


8 
Ht 
i 
= 
i 


h7 
: 
H 
: 
i 
‘i 


: 
i 
5 
i 
H 
g 
i 


f 
i 
Li 
i 


ifs 
Hy 
is 


Are by her voice diverted, and 
Comes to 


Calls them within, 

ee TS 
at Li 

Breaks tote atssine arsianiss a 


i 
Beer 
Hale 

j 








We 


186 CYCLOP-EDIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 
“As mothers blend with their caress, And, lost each human trace, surrendering up 
Tea ate tor tn owetes Thine oval sng chat Ue go © Oem 
And virtue for the li ‘boy. ‘To mix for ever with the elements, 
Reuse te. | bitacamsnt acces 
Beings of beauty-and decay, Taras ‘wih his hare, and treads a 
‘They slumber in their autumn tomb. Shall send his roots abroad, and thy mor 
But those that his own Groen River, sutte ehassal om 
And wreathed the lattice of his home, Yet not to thine 
Charwed by his song from mortal doo, ee fie. 
Bloom on, and. bloom on for ever." With patria of the infant als F . 
ae oe 
B0cTs 
Allin one Rie 
Roek-ribbed ot as the sun; the vales 





‘ peal 
Bryant's Residence. 


Serie country ay aie LA coed 
a picturesqu situated il on 
ay oe a few hours’ journey from the city. 
There ata heme, in the immediate vicinity of nn- 
merous fine and water views, he finds retire- 
ment from the care and turmoi) of metropolitan 
life, and there we may readily suppose his favor- 
ite woods and fields inspire the most genial moods 
of his poetic creations. 


THANATORSIS 
To him who in the love of Nature holds 

Communion with her visible forms, she spenks 

A various ; for his gayer hours 

She has a voice ladness, and a smile 

And eloquence of beanty, and apse 

Into his darker musings, with a mild 


Their sharpness ere he is aware. When hts 


darkness, and the narrow house, 
Make thee to shudder, and grow sick at heart ;— 
Go forth, under the open sky, and list 

ings, while from all around— 


all-beholding 
In all his course; nor yet in the cold ground, 
‘Where je form was laid, with many tears, 
Nor in the embrace of ocean, shall exist 
Thy feast, Earth, that nourished thee, shall 
el 


Thy growth, to be resolved to earth ngain, 


© Lives by Halleck, In his poem, “The Recorder.” 





all, 

‘Old ocean's and ee waste,— 

Are but beeline decorations 

Of the great tomb of man. The golden sun 

The planeta, all the infinite host of heaven, 

Por ae reg 

Tho globe are but e handial to the tribes 

Ppcaphans ios boven Te the wings 
morning, traverse Barea's desert ands, 

Or lose th; in the continuous woods - 

Where the Oregon, and hears no oun: 

Save his own dashin; ct—the dead are tH 

And millions in those ndes, since first 

‘The flight of brad began, have laid them down 

In their last sleep—the dead reign there alone. 

‘So shalt thou rest, and what if 

In silence from the living, 

Take note of Sy Seeranl All that breathe 

Will share thy ys 

When thou art 

Plod on, and each one aa before will chase 

His favorite phantom ; yet all these shall leave 

‘Their mirth and their employments, and shall eome, 

And make their bed with thee. As the long train 

Of ages glide away, the sons of men, 

‘The youth in life's green spring, aud he who 

In the full strength of years, subsea makes > 

And the sweet babe, aid the grey-headed man, — 

Shall one by eragecien to thy side, 

By those, who in their turn shall follow them. 


So live, that when thy summons comes to join 
eter realm, ichigo shall take 
ous wi 
His chamber in the silent halla of death, 
Thou go not, like the quarry-elave at night, 
Scourged to his dungeon, but, sustained and soothed 
By au unfaltering trast, thy grave 
Like one who wraps the drapery of his couch 
About him, and lies down to pleasant dreama 
TO A WATERFOWL, 

Whither, midst falling dow, 
While glow the heavens with the last steps of day, 
Far, through their rosy depths, dost thou pursue 

Thy solitary way 
welt t cit cae 

ight mai int flight to 

As, dark): shah against ane crimson sky, 

Thy gue floats along. 
oe peas foc the Pahy, brink 

2, OF Mi river 
On the ehafed ocean side? 















etetoes ta Doren ond Beves, Mowe 
“ i ver 
last of which ho was called to the pre- 


t with a great loss in 
n, Whose character had imparted 


Apolo of Hampton N.HL, 
successor. He had a few 





tion of which has been since published. 
tem of instraction was accurate and thorongh. 


the public is indebted for the valuable Dieti: 


of American Was the new pre- 
sideut, and continued in the office for twenty 
years, with the exception of a short interval in 


1831, when he was removed by an act of the 
Legislature, which had taken to itself authority 
to control the affuirs of the college, in conse- 
quence of a cession of the old charter from Mas- 
[oscar in, sie ae of Maine ong 
organization in 1820, @ procurement of o 
new charter, which placed the institution in a 
measure under the control of the state. ‘The » 
pin was finally adjudicated before Mr. Jus- 
ice Story, in the circuit court of aR 
States, when a decision was given sustai 0 
rights of the college, which had been violated, 
and President Allen was restored to his oflice. 


janes eth ae or ee 
has also published s translation, from 
French, of De Maistre's Beay on the Generative 
Principle of Political Constitutions. 





at SSS 








| 


196 CYCLOPEZDIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 
, his devotion to which is sufficient to ivi hg ager "Wine ged 
in Jew the hi 
stamp gh scholarship of the college in this is Sandie On ate 
rature must be relinquished. The s th 
readiest sacrifice. In 1883 he’ 


the law, and took a classical school in the villa 
of Waterford. In 1835 he went | e 
where he remained ty 





oa f 
BS ish 


was an iloes td the Revolutionary war, and was © A list ot these Miseclanoons Writings will be ¥ 
an honored member of the Cincinnati Society at — 2uyreaders ff emer many points of reference 
its close, when he had through its scenes Addresses.—Fualth the Life of Scionee : detivered befo 
and served with distinction in the battles of Mon- Fis Bea es Beare, Natural Rellgi 










‘Teas. 
ton, Mr. Lewis gradnated in 1820 at Union Gol-  5'x,Days of Creation, two 
loge) Schenectady, in'ths clies of Judge Kent Go- oars; Lise Thess Bene 
yernor Seward, and Comptroller John ©. Wright, {lamin Lit, and Thool, Review, 
He studied law in the office of Samuel A. Foot in d°Rhrdnaicnry Hawes Grae 
‘Albany, incompany with William Kent Though Review of Nordhelmer's Hebrow 
attracted by the stady of such writers as Coke, a2!" bpetey: ik Mee gant tease 
Fearne, and Butler, and much inte- view of; ‘Amer. wis Review, 
rested in the logieal questions of the law of ovi- | slenee; Amer, Whig, Review, July 
dence hay ier was not at ae Ealing a; An ag, Wile Review, "Seis 
luck profession, touching whic! a ») Tan. 
Ba ekditecrstcooncbentions sernples, He, how- | ier Rasa Mar 2 The 


ever, rejecting offers of partnership at Albany, | ments A Jan, 1ST. 8 
Ce ad the retired village ‘of ie ane se i He ; 
Miller, Washington » Now York, | dam on), Kalekerboaker Spt, 
where he hnd sufficient time for reflection, and | Hourieriam: Methodist Guar. Review, 
at the suggestion of a clerical friend, he Astron. ‘Views of the Avcionts;" 
on the study of Hebrew to fill up the Second Article on the same ; Bib, Rep, 
mental vacunm, The new occupation engrossed of ite Old Testament; Bib. Rep.. Jan 
all eee st L viper pt—g Article oo ee no 
i to Hebrew. toac ili- ‘ 
suit eady oie Bile ne logoageot nod | Rar eee whan Ree 
and New Homer theea, Jan.. 1861. Second Article on 
with equal zest, Six years were devoted to bibli- | Haestea!"Busetion Review deri 
ial kind claaaien! teins pareo bd with: a scholar's Meni tn tbe Sitar Word. ‘Theastetns t 
upction and a pure love of literature, with no ae ito Tho es 


i 
E 
F 
i 
i 
i 





Union College. 


their relation to the Biblical narrative, have em- 
I Behonccady tm 1855, ented Tha Sts 

at in 1855, enti Si 
of Creation ; or, Scriptural Cosmology, 
| the ancient idea of Tine Worlds in Toten 
Worlds of is a novel and able 
of the rabies, displaying distinguished phi- 

and acumen, 
his illustration of these and kindred 
= in the more scholastic journals, Professor 
has handled most of the social, poli- 
ical topics of the times in the 
* Ty 
a 


hi 

of Ha "s Magazine, where 
hi wating beter hes hl and widely 
on Isaac W. Jackson, a nate of 
of 1826, and since 1831 sat of Ma- 
and Natural Philosophy, has illustrated 
the production of text books on 
“ Mechanics,” and * Optics,” in 
jects are digested with ability, ant 

















ori neering has been 
1845 by William Mitchell Gillespie, who 
ven to the public several works illustrating 
‘of his instructions. Lis Manual of 
faking bas passed through a number of 
Tn 1851 hie published The Philowphy 

ca, th ion from the French of 





in 1845, the 
Rome; aa seen 
1 Mr. Gillespie was 
a graduate of Colambia Col- 


Programme of the “ Civil Engi- 
um shows this subject to 
diserimination of its 
ita general discipline of 
direct avenue to the large 
ich must be 
of the iptentnre year, ani 
: peer! a the vasa and 
‘ studies, receiving a 
ial certificate of the ecohioh he may 
allowing a partial 





pnrait of the University Course was introduced 
na aS 1832, and more fully developed in 
1849. The students may engage in various studies 
at choiee, but must attend at least three recita- 
tions daily to entitle them to the pri . 

Mr. Elias +, Instructor of Lan- 
Ceccectes ys lteoptin essen eeanetrate 

nguage on a phi ical 
English student by first exhibiting to him the re~ 
semblances of the two tongues, an assistance which 
starts him far on the journey, 

The view of the college buildings which we 

t includes the whole plan, though only one 

alf is yet cong . The rest is expected to be 
soon accomplished. 

Tn 1842, on the 22d July, the first semi-cen- 
enienae of ae cai ding ad~ 

a variety ublio ex iT 
aster by the Rar Joseph Sweetnan of She close 
of 1797, and by the Rev. Alonzo Potter of the 
class of 1818, There was also a dinner of the 
alumni i over by John C. Spencer, who 
delivered an eloquent speech on the college, and 
the festivities were well sustained by speaeh and 
song from Bishop Doane, the riepee . Brown, 
petit Street, and other honored sons of the 
Mh 


JOHN BE, HOLBROOK: 


nate of Brown Univer- 
sity, Providence, Rhode Island, and after taking 
a medical degree in-Philadelphia, left home to 
ard Lean “inset at the schools of 
i and London. Ha: passed near: 
two years in Scotland and Roginnd. he meee 
to the continent, where he spent two more years, 
aa in Germany and italy, but, principally in 
‘aris—always occupied in ly of pro- 
I s the ficent collections in th 
it was among the magnificent ions in the 
De, Holizwok began tn sody of natzeal Malory, 
Ir. sti 
to whlen he haa since devoted his life f 
Tn 1822 he returned to the United States, and 
tia Onligeof he State of South Caling 
the a 
place which he still holds, 

















| 


CYCLOPEDIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 


and where the memory of liis gontle 


Stee Ss 


with a couplet from the 


lines of Hal- 





kindling of the doacinoton His Snepitad 
were conundram, w perpetral when 
hea five. When he was but seven or 


the place a3 a wine 
to witness his suffer- 








wi A ein Hug eon tn, 
vehi pose Ted pms fr sb 


earliest of his poems whieh has been | r 
when a mere boy, It shows 
facility, but an unusual: 


end 
a eat Saeiee 
dated Irvine, in the on } 
Snagit iene aa 


i! which appeared among them, th. 
poems have not been on 
ledged by either author, and pbs is of 


we believe, a pretty accnrate statement. ~ 
The Croakers, published in the Evening Post, 
nite with the tues by Drak to Ena, Me 
@ lines to Enno 
10.1819, and ehh 24, with The owt 
Conversation by Halleck, that pleasant appeal 
of Mra. incl 

















eat 
3ee i z 
etre 
Ff é 
tht 
p Big 
ae 
eres! 


28 
et 
Faia 
il 
ef 
4 
ay 
ei 
iB 


usnally assigned to Drake as their author, 
we may add the titles of some of the others 
be from the pen of Halleck. 

Among them are “The Forum,” a picture of a 
to which the public 

for its supporters some 

the political, PaRghees the city; “To Si- 

a 


ie 


present writing ;* Simon being a black 
caterer of fashionable entertainments— 
Prinee of cooks, 
and hara, and cold Rea began, 
‘Pupil of Mitehill’s cookery books, 
friend of old and young; 
several highly humorous epi “To Edmund 
Theatre,” in one 
he stage director, if he 
~] spareclidead-aeie his 
and emp! ie ical actors at 
Albany, from the boards of the state legislature. 
alloak it,” one of his earli- 


ited by the editor Coleman, with 
the following introduction :—* We republish the 
beautiful lines from our own files of 

October last, for the three follo reasons : 
becanse deserve it for their intrinsic 

it; they are the inspirations of poetry itself. 


— 


er , in the renowned city of Gotham, | 
8 








Fanny, which grew ont of the snecess of 
Croakers, was published in 1821. It is a satiri- 
cal squib in Don Joan measure, at the 
able literary and political enthosiasms of the 
day, The a wi is the vehicle for 

is simply th 


ew 
low birth and fortune to an elysium 


the tre! ae verses, theron ea was 
soon exhausted ; it was not reprin’ 

were circulated, fairly copied out in Seaciietee 
Pr rie nh A Miles cs - 
seller, who re-pul the poem 

helped to alive the tradition of its humor, 
The authorship was for a long while unacknow- 


ase 


In 1825, ond sul 
to Bryant's 





With manly hearts, in sincere, 

eps in love, inhot Me and ave 
warm ‘trie, danger ve, 

Beloved in he fo, and suinted in the grave. 






vt, 
And minds have there been nurtured, woe con- that " 
4 sources of the echool, At the age of 





te 
ia he 
Is felt even in their nation’s destiny; : 
iat u pay Destctal witb. A wfapeomsn's sou), | entered eee and his fre- 
And | ‘on armies with a leader's eye; Lb ee es the ba Ne 
Names that adorn and diguify the scroll, President t, He was at the of his 


* Whose leaves contain country’s history, class in 1815, and his of Zamor, 
And tales of love and war—tisten to one Lit wards published in his wot ) part of the 
Of the Green-Mountaincer—the Stark of Bennington, | Commencement exercises, hind 


begun his poetieal career by the composition of & 


vit. oe, 

‘Whewon tit eld his tand'the Hlemians tinghe, | fy Solve vores daring Ee atleast ee 

~ meets ceak egy | He ei np 
For four ds eight and sevenpence nee, volume eae the firet pe < 


‘ kirg; a bargain, as is thought. 
ne Synths: 1 Let's prove it now we 
can: 
For we must beat them, boys, ere set of sun, 
On Many Srana’s a Wivow." It was done. 


™ 
Hers are not Tempe’s nor Arcadia’s spring, 
Nor the long me of Gahapee ne 
The viene flowers, the air, the skies, that fling 
Such wild enchantinent o'er Boceaccio's tales 
Of Florence atid the Arno; yet the wing 
Of life's best angel, Health, is on her gales 
Th wun and snow; and in the autumn time 
Earth has no purer and no lovelier clime. 


x 
Her clear, warm heaven ot noon—the mist thot 
shrouds 


Her twilight hille—her cool and starry eves, 
The glorious splendor of her sunset clouds, 

‘The rainbow beauty of her forest leaves, 
Come o'er the eye, in solitude and crowds, 

Where'er his web of song her poet weaves; 
And his mind's brightest vi but displays 
‘the autumn scenery of his boyhood's days. 





x” 


And when you dream of woman, and her love; v 
Tia ere bike Thatiaervonn.b we ntle power; porwe Y 7 Ccivatl 
‘The maiden listening in the moonlight grove, 


Sen Seiegnpetipyed whe yevinathe or | be swent to Charleston, 8. On, i ap oian 
m0" 





ie EN irae Folin he pater y, 
Be by of reaming h iterature, pul rst 0 
pols = Sharlene et a le pala 
a 
there, a ma inced by the similar form of the Sketoh Bo 


ad 








H 
iz 
ahh 
Ee 
it 
ee 


° 

FE 

ue 

rapt 
SF58 


- 
se 
‘ 
A 
fe 
rE 


E 
: 
: 
EEg 


g 
i 
& 
i 
ze 
Fe 


J 
: 
i 
5. 


u 
y 


tn 
ye 
: 
Hl 


‘eye watch, which he 


ing fitted by his mother with an equipment of 
lotr Ee ite Pa turned his steps one morn- 
ing Atel 815, to the house of a cler- 
gyman thirty miles off, who kept one or two pupils 
ata time in preparation for college, He here made 
use of his opportunities that in twelve 
had read the whole of Virgil; the win- 
in studying human nature and 
while boarding round as the 
nae of the ey tae tastod ae 
io! subsequer 

ferking.. A. short tine at & 
the north-west of the state 
more school-keeping, with an 
ene te help to his 


to his 


i 


fe 
Ha 


ee 
es 
Zed i 
ie 

oF 
a2 

8 

3 


and read estonsi 
English composition, took his degree in the 
summer of 1820. 

Throvgh the friendship of Professor Keith of 
Alexandria, D. ©., he now obtained an eligible 
private tutorship in a arpa Virginia, in the 
vicinity of the mansions of the old Ex-Presidents, 
and so far ited by his opportunities as to pro- 
oure an im as attorney and counsellor of 
8a Dil el of the he Go 
ter three or pleasant life he re- 
turned home fh ber 


=} 


0; a law-office in Montpe- 
Hier, THe soon got the intent of Register of 
Probate, was elected of the legislature, which 


he held for three years, when he passed 











DI Tironvparnrn 
Eat had written nding oflangth ln 18 
ze tale by the 


New 

at Boston, he wrote 

or the Diggers ; 
S09 suc~ 


4 


i 
aH] 


: 

3 

4 
bee 
48 
‘i 
Biiy 


become acquainted in the course of his 

In Luo hie Thomapean, at 

r, iblished 

The Green Mountain a intended to 
and illustrate a portion @ more romantic 
dents which actually occurred in the early settle- 
ments of Vermont, with the use of but little more 
of fiction than was deemed sufficient to “ 
them together, and impart to the tissne a oo 
nected interest.” Locke Amaden, or the | 
master, followed in 1847. This the 
of sehiele be Bronte the art of fe ne be 
culture, to serve interests popular it 
cation, involves no inconsiderable part of the an- 
thor’s autobi , and is drawn 
his personal observation. It is an 
ture of a time alread’ anckente AO eao 
cause of education developed itself in what was 
hot many years since a scanty wild settlement. 

The Rangers, or the Tory’  & coun 
terpart to the Green Mountain - 
lished in 1850, It is illastrative 


tionary his of Vermont, and the northe 
eanpaigns of 1777 ; ot i te tesuk OF Seanad 


precedin, 


is full and minnte, the writer knowin 
the art —< snolbing 


the story-teller, who must 


larity in his state, and which bas | t 
zon The tales have been lished | 
where they have dou! ‘been read 









up th at merchandise, an an- 
i are rey 
‘over 





i 


¥ 
backers, were standing in a three or | very cool: costs, 
of . {fom iftesn to 3 good dea of your etait hete, e00cE ngs it 


bodily p 
hich they ‘The parties were now called | you Viksow what yoo Wee aboae Bat now | 
wi bys meg 
and sworn; when Bunker, being no attorneys | all fixed and settled, 1 miei a to como you 
ed to make two-hour speeches on preliminary | that 1 am not quite the one toaper 
at once tothe merits of his ense, | jury in this ‘ere business.” - 


open his account-book, and Well, we will see,” rejoined Banker, gl 
f, opponent with a look of miagled Rt nee 


Sif 
A 

H 
SF 
: 

g 

5 
=f 
2 

5 


a8 wholly by hierog! ee eeoarelly lesigaatiny “Yes, we will see” ded 

abhi tap plotertsy hiss cet, ot sibapaseitie minedly ; “we will ece if we can't ce 
mere peeolenty sf bie or calling. | your own words, But] want first totell 

case, the » who was a cooper, missed it, When you dunned me, 

the rude picture of a man in the pay for n cheese, aud I said 1 never had oF 
barrel; and the article. ou. yon went off a Utils ive Gai oe 

i P liar, before giving me a chance to say another word 
beneath, and ited by aahaded, | And then, I thought I would let gh peo 
the plaintiff said was intended | course, till you took that cone Baek You had 
beensold to the defendantsome | held on a minute, without breaking out eo m 
T should have teld you all how it was, and you 


id Bunker, after explaini have got your ‘on the ; bo—" 
wer, his peculiar method of 8 Pay  fercely interred Bunker, “then you 
book-keoping, “now, the article here charged the | admit you had the cheese, pit . 
do swear to it; for here it is “No ait, 1 adit no such thing.” rejoined 
black and white. Peau neg: Senate ray the former; “ for I still say I never a ehcose of 
pat he £ uioet Hib de i oe in ewer. out peren d 
‘ever buyi article jnestion, ve t | al at the time, and at just it u 
Ri ceneune ays due. iat ete aaa for your sty ah A Ei heels 
to see if he will as in court, and deny the | money for it, sir, Now, Bunker, what do you say 
will, let him; butiony the | to that?” 24 
have merey on his soul!” “ Grindstone—cheese—el | 
Well, sir,” replied the defendant, promptly ris- | claimed the now evidently nopplussod and dow 
not be from having your wish | Bunker, taking a few rapid turns about the, 


Panis 
unk 
ged 


ral 
Fe 
teu 
Ee FE 
3 EE 
is 


i 
ae 
z 
& 


shoe tne God you it, do you!” over 
“I do, sir,” firmly anawered the other. what I have done! It was a ‘batt 








Jf hrmecly 


Reg Mr. Kennedy, in the course of a jonrn 


of that spas in wit! 
rity, cut charwards fared to good ac- 


= a ree erering: 's acest! with him, by 


making it the work ofan excellent historical 
novel, its leading incidents being transcripts of 
the old man’s veritable adventures, 
In his next work, Rob of the Bowl, published 
in eae Mr. Kennedy went further back in Arne- 
istory than before, but with a similar 
oy the main, to fact; the seene being 
iia in in the days of her found 
Calvert. These novels were reprinted in 
pa volumes, with illustrations, in 1852, by 
In 1840 Mr, ety por published epee im 
_ * pol sugges y 
Jog-cabin and thal cider” canvass pre- 
cating he ono Han Tyler, in the 


on. isto he published an elaborate life of his 

friend Willian with extracts from his cor- 
forming two octavo volumes. 

in addition to the works mentioned, Mr. Ken- 


ey 


the "aenerohab in 1833, an Bu 
Wirt, in 1834, raster at the Dedication 
in 1839. 


aded ‘ial ree which 
fer a the man poy gene personal relations, 
We have a full Soe greg in Ais volames of the 


old Virginia life, with its old-time idens of re- 
Bose, content, and solid comfort; its hearty out- 
existence, and the “hnmors” which are 
apt, in a fixed state of society, to develop quaint 
features in master and de ts. 
The author's books abound in delightful rural 
pictures and sketches nerd which, in eas: 





CYCLOPADIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE 





Kennedy's maison 


Book and Bracebridge Hall, ‘The author has him- 
self acknowledged the ie nisin ae the Gaeta 
tribute to Irving which 

the volume. 


rie 8 froding es re Se ee 
the James River, It is. quietl pres tra 
vassal out-buildings, in a kind 


nook, formed by a sweep of the oa 
acelivity thinly sprinkled with oaks, whose 
cent branches habitation aud defence 


a colony of owls, 

This time-honored mansion was the residence of 
the family of Hazards; but in the present genera- 
tion the spells of love and 
Lassie Teeeeies Rs ee i 

aving married Lucre ie 

late Maa: Walter Tucan and That eee 
onal incumbrances that had been silently 
: coals es poe yrighte, The eljassaay 
inducted into the etary te, e a 
of his own estate gave a territorial feature to 

allianee, of which the fruits were no less diseerni- 
ble in the multiplication of bac cattle, and 


ponltey, a than in @ flourishing clan of beget: 
buildings illustrate epochs in the bis 
tory Lp) the family. ‘The main stru sare i ards 
brick 


of a century old; one story 
walls, and a Govbletacad 2 pies a 
bottom upwards ; this is perforated with small 
mer windows, that have some such iy i 
end to a face without eye-browx To 
4 more modern tenement of wood, 
ight have had its date about Ss och ae 


tn nm: it has shrunk a little at the 

some crannies, through which the winds ee 

dier recruit 
The 


ammeter mi 


It ha an unfinish 
























i 
i 
i 
i 


i 
: 
i 
a 


4 


iz 
a 
Hi 


a 
dl 
2 
: 
sie 
d 


EF 
a 
AEe 
Fey 

i 


HTL 
ula 
fei 
ae 
ry: 
i 

1 

EP E) 

F 


i 
ii 
i 
i 
a 


: 
i 
qs 
i} 
rE 
H 


no tnore resting-time than he does his wateh ; who 


ar 







gives it no Sanday, no h + NO vacation 
any sense, Our pica m enacted a la 
that suicides sh be buried where four roads 
eae mc Te beatles 
rowan upon the ‘Yet, wi lemon or 
tai comin echo aah condo sl ty 
tn or the: 
anal eceee is 
church, and the aren | read an 
yy h to make 
Fee us old law 
now in force tl he suicide 
for the offence vitted, we 


Temperance. The art consists in the 
tion of our organs not ouly to the highest, 
but to the ent. Vastly leas depends 


luxyries, but lice ares 
re 0 5 an ie 
levotce of =) would iate his divini 

. nor to France for paté de foie gras, 


but would b & mountain, or swing am axe. 
With health, there is no end te the q ty or the 


i--} 
2 
a 
ri 


2 

i 

a 
e5ires 


r 
I 
2 
cs 
: 
i 


it 
: 
a5 
zs 
i 
ii 
Ee 


te 
He 
i 
Fees 
au 


f ; nor is this the worst of his 
punishment, for he is more than kalf dead while he 


GEORGE BUSH, 


and Oriental Literature in the Uni- 
versity of the city of New York, and at the same 
rintendent of the Press of the Ameri- 
can . In 1833 he published his Life 
of Mahommed in Harper's Family Library. In this 
work copious extracts from the false prophet’s 
revelations are interwoven with his 


irs. 





A Treatise on the Millennium in 
1832. The main object of this work was to 
show by a somewhat elaborate train of historical 
and critical induction, that the prophetical period 

cere Pie leernoamng pest luateadt 
of fature; it was not & period of 
iin cheno ene tiacceveegmy kictinas the ox pected 
éra to which the name Millennium is ven, is 
really the New Jerusalem era developed in the 
closing chapters of the Apocalypse. An octavo 








volume of Seripture IUustrations published at 
this time by Dr. Bush, was a compilation from 
oriental tourists, archeologists, and commentators, 
with a view to cast light upon the sucred Scrip- 
tures in the departinents of topography, 


costumes, arts, 
seal In 1835 His Hebrew Gremter for 
ie 


In the same year ho published his Anastasia ; 
or the Doctrine of the rection of the Bod, 
Rationally and Spiritually Considered, in whi 
he see) the doctrine of the physical 
tion of the body in another world, with argu- 
ments from reason and revelation. The book met 
with much npepaiton from the pulpit and re- 
i ¢ nuthor replied in his work, The 
Resurrection of Christ, in answer to the Question 
whether He rose in a Spiritual and Celestial, or 
in a Material and Earthly Body, and The Soul, 


an Inquiry into oes fl. 
Swed ii De hurch, nat eae 
en! ) a3 one of its 

and devoted himself to the dissemination of the 
writings of that philosopher, by translation of 
his Diary and other works, and especially in his 
editorship of the Mew Church Repository, In 
1847 he published a work on the connexion of 
the doctrines of Sweden and mesmerism, 
In his personal character Dr, 
for the kindness of his disposition. 
mysticism harmonizes well with the of 
the gentle-minded scholar and ardent devotee of 
learning. 


JOHN G. 0. BRAINARD, 


Brarsaen, the gentle poet of the Connecticut, the 
placid stream whieh happily ornbolizes 


New London, October 21, 1796, His father had 
been a judge of the Superior Court, and the son 
for a while, after his education at Yale was com- 
Cag SE the study of the law, but it was 
ittle adapted to his tastes and constitation, and 
after a brief trial of its practice at Middletown he 
abandoned it in Feb: , 1822, for the editorship 
of a weekly paper at Hartford, the Connecticut 
Mirror. He is said to have neglected the poli- 
ties of his paper, dismissing the tariff with a 
while ne a ed aa pa the agitg aa 
poetical department, His us 

able walks of the delles-dettres, par fc 


of his tem) t, the correspondence of the sen~ 
sitive mind to the weak ical frame, found its 
His country 


— 











280 CYCLOPDIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 


“ye heues the wld winds ote aboot; 
when the ight libesess 





bark is 
sg a of the out. 
T'm the sea-bird, sva-bird, bind, 
The tow bind sen'bind, 
Srascas. 
‘The dead leaves strew the forest walk, 

And withered are the pale wild flowers ; correspondence and ~ 
‘The frost hangs black’ning on the stalk, in similar pursuits of learning and 

‘The dew-drops full in showers, During this absence Mr. Ticknor Was sppoi 

Gone are the ee a ea oh 
Gone Summ: tan vi nded at Harvard, 

And with her yellow sy ics ‘Languages Literature, and of the . 
On hill and plain no longer les Lettres—in. a general Proviso 
T learned a clear and wild-toned note, Modern Literature, Wel for the 

‘That rose and from yonder tree— he returned to actively en- 
A gay bird, with too sweet a grossed in its duties, delivering lectures on Freneh 

there perched and raised her for me. and Spanish Literature ; on particular authors, as 

ter comes, and is Dante and Goethe; on the English and 
Away—where summer will rove, other kindred topics. “We well remember,” 

buds are fresh, and every tree says Mr. Prescott the historian, in an article 
there eadrgetsirt ede ee ey fs 
Too mild the breath of Southern sky, on. the first 

Moa frah the flower thet Biesbes Gere, which served to break coun ae barrier which 
rite Hereera esac iat Toa by had 60 lang (contioed ‘wis ata 

Finds leaves an ir ant ; opened to a 

No forest tree stands stripped and bare, amo! Cee sioet antes et asim 
No stream beneath the ico is dead, Who ed hitherts, teen vole Ea 
au meee ne i weey _ a foreign idiom, The influence of this e 

sia ea ey mace Hea TST reGS Hess. tion was soon visible in the higher education as 
Go there with all the binds—and seck well as the literary ardor shown by the graduates. 

eeirecnent otiped wii Hivelies si it, So decided was the impulse thus given to the 
Kiss, with the sun, the evening's check, palar sentiment, that consi ptt ont ee 

Bes poeclap epee eigen ‘ras felt lest modern iterate wae to receive 
And sero oll ita glories shooe— rye irk peedarrdenlcor =! a 

Seewsthat it all s irend bright, of olegits edation. 
Feel—that it all is cold and gone. 

GEORGE TICKNOR, 
Tae ee ee historian of ish litera- 
‘ture, was in the city of Mass, 
August 1,1791. He was prepared for college at 
home, ¢ th, and received his de- 
gree there at the early age of sixteen. He oc- 
cupied himself the next in Boston 


scholar, however, ed over the practice of 
the profession, om ee Mr. aioe re ed 
Europe to sccomp! ‘imself @ thorough 
ras of instruction of a as illolorie 
two at Gottingen lologis 
bad mage i continued during a residence of 
two years more in various capitals, as Paris, Ma- 
did, Lisbon, Rome, and Edinburgh, cea the 
intance of erninent scholars on the continent 
Great Britain, among others of Sir Walter 
and Robert Southey, who admired. his 
scholarship, and stock of curious ish lore. 
In 1819 visi 


ited Abbotsford with Dr. J. G. 
as makes mention of the He Ns 





“another well accomplished Yankee,” 





© Lockhart’s Scott, ch. 44. 

















ae 
‘ 


il 
z 
i 
if 
| 


Hl = 


: 
i 
i 


g 

: 
y 

4 
£ 








Mr. Prescott had now shi 





her foreign wars and conq Hes 

where he left them at the end of the reign 

dinand and Isabella, Certainly, on one Fret hen 
presents > for 


becoming pre- 
Mr. we 
suaded, cad bare tecniad Case ane 
ceearee the band of « master, and so 
reni 


lered a now service to the History of 
World at one of the turning points in i 














3 


| also. 


















malta Hie 
july 
aes ee 
yTeery [ee] a 
HET as : 
: Ele iii Td iGonill Pyisii 
i Hea aL Hi Het eet $e2888 
lise ane sepa egeensaryy iat ange sHile 
rutile: sli uhneae EH We ulian [heh 
gute otal BUNGE Te aii Edam) aH2 
Piet PEERS Herein HiBenletin| bial 
s Zeks es SEES 2 s Ti pase eils 4 sate 
it ae el eng 
d geattiae 2 hehe #22 # Leh Feil £3342 Pris 
isting TUAIe i fut ay) tle me if aly 
UH fee a rete eRe 
24 Hd aE 


B 




















, 4 Bae 5 Hi § Sytpigises = st8 
Cee aa 
i a lay 
: bia uniiee auth aa Re 
i anne pill 
ah Gc ui a He Hatt 
ie ut Heid i; 

E 8: fal Hee a duu 





Lil 


bat 
the 
for 


as 


25 














“ns CHARLES FOLLEN, 243 





Give him your had! ly roturalng heart 


“ 
iow 
a The 


oask 
“titers 
sniall 














eho 

Ee i a os wa 

na 
Sina (aids sil : ie Hadi daca ly 3 Le ee 

ae | ae Ne le . yea : 

flues eats ftag GU aie | oy Heya sef alles 

rh pee Pie tina Hae” teh leanlinaan 

3 ; ip Fra ia: Eo Cr He Ht 

21a Bi inal Hl La ee ai 


| a 





















aun 
He eae 34 iff e2 
: all ae ae ay ial a teigi i Eilat 
+ rae : PrerteEre: 5 [a 3 Pal = 
| een) i tle le ale Teen tia 
i He ath pattie tg Hi UG 8 Fe ri 
: Hat aut ie leis He Hit pupae ise 
| taut NLRs oreree Au 
c i He Hu i iene i tat a5 B 38 ai : 
VE z ina HIGH i! th 
i i 
a a di 
2 





oie Say joo 
Sad from b 





















He aa 
en a 
B He i 3 ai 
seta spegieliiess UF ta bet if Hi 
ee Ha Lisa 
a = 3 aT aasgtiati phie ue 
i il 4 i yal ale age 
¢ tiedsee™ 255858228" Sos 233-22 
Reha ae wanial yl 
XN fini! ioe ceil fis | af 
oy SUBS S: Boge 2c: *ESSE5 SEE 
Pa aaa eee 
ih 4 iu Pra ibtt tl etree bs 


ass 
Beate 


ayes 
ae 





23 
3 


of 
the 
ee 


Dr. 
aon 


if 


iE te 


Professor of C! 
oe Was gi 


ae a 


lt “ rer ite 


bath 
HIE ri 1d 


a arg wg 


ei Hi 
HH : 
in 





2 


sgn rr ao 


He a 


a att 





cero’s, my clients res what they like—that 
is, often, nothing at all.” 
In 1824 he was again elected a member of the 
wy gee until chosen 
it Attorney-General of the state. the 
iy discussions of this period he was an advo- 
cate of the doctrine of states rights, but opposed 
to nullification, 


The ability he attracted universal admi- 
stl and led we intimate with 
eon 


Se on eit ee 
might be desirable. lata oy 
accepted, and ‘at once en on its duties. 
These. were sli, ee eieyr aie 
sing peilehabe improved a course of ci Ww 
under the acquisition of the Dutch, 








At the extra session in he i 
Aeneaty teustt th soto ean } 
the sub-treasury.' His opinions were those 

i in his state, and at the next election he 


which had, dui the previous produced 
such extreme as to cause the 
to his sister, that if it God he would ra- 


ther die than live in He 
ble to take part in the celebration of the 


where he died on the morning of the twentieth 
the same month, 
His writings were collected by his sister and 
lished at Charleston in 1846, with a mexoir* 
ey form two octavo bbs eo 
hisjournals duri diplomatic: ' 
with lively details of court gossip, his stu- 
dies and observations, public and private corres- 


articles for the New 
for the most part on classical or legal subjects, 
remainder being devoted, with few 
authors of the day. They nT toe 
dition, and are admirable as models 
scholarship and fluished composition. 
(CUARACTERIATICN OF LoRD BYRON. 


Lord Byron's life not a literary, or eloistered 
and scholastic life. He hud lived generally in the 


* Writings of Hagh Swinton late Atte 

Diary ot ‘aod Jourual of the Rhine i. 
Pe 

Eien Memets off bis Life, Billed. by, tia Slaten 
Review. 








SST fen cseman 


| DAVID 4. MOORD. 












seat a 
ya eT UE ee i: i fe Ht nH ip 
Hit PM leit il: uae tee RE ag: re 
fej HOLT cats may GH EEC a 
te al Hara fine ie ie Hil ie 
i 3 Esa53 i 34 4 ae ct E a u ae e 
EC Me aM ED Hn i SE el 
magi HAE UTIANTEEH  HieHI RN 
42105 puetiuleh a eae 
Pecan meat J ey il 
Ha ial le 
pli Hai 





ese 
ta Laut we 
: ia ant 3 ee iy fae cal 
sHiaiieyl zi ue 3 
E i a i f i tt [ue de Hie ae i 
ny ite Bite atta aa 
t i wt aaa eet oe 
gi 2s is HUE u 
it ac nen i a ine te ae 
i Me Ca ad 
iis: Hala : ee erty HITE il 
4 : Banal an Hi clic sil tin (Slay 
8 al ae He 33 eae a 4 
Ges pala |ti 









A HE aL eee ay 
HH i ne a 
ae i i 











; 1 i : Hi hf t fae ag 
ah , cL a Hehe a 
bith nat ip iD ul ae i a ee “ge 
‘al Hol Hl ain i a gt Bf al he cae BL 
fal re Th Sa nitint a) Ht i ae a siti 
43 eat Fal BLES i] pais z. ig rh 
iota af lif JH p 1) a aig zn 
i uel y Fit 
i HET, i : 
He : 
nil calles a i] 
li Ei 
i: 
if 








@ voice of years: 

Tt breathed o'er ocean, it wand. earth, 
It spoke of the time when words had birth, 
olay rt over the sea, 


From ocean it came on a murmuring wave, 

1Abd it spoke of the dine gre the Bech of light: 
When earth ‘was hushed, ‘neath the ocean's might, 
And the waters rolled, and the dashing roar, 


her inmost: 
The voice of years: 
It murmared with the bul ustream, 
It came like the sound of a past dream— 
And it spoke of the hour ere had birth, 


When livi alee paren) 
Aoaleieorly it from the deep, 
° Ocha volte of years 
‘From heaven it beam of light, 
pea ec 
Wh waked the sata who lt thetens 
Wap ofthe good an he worden Gol 
It e of the and the wonderful God ; 
t whisp that God of 


it to p Light, 
voice of years, 

It howled in the storm as it threatening pasted, 
. voice of yours: 


guia rien a 











‘Twas 


= wave F 
'o spoke from 
cere voice 


the ruin; He from the A 
of ted by, pip 





let it that dreaded day of doom, 
Nay come, that 
When pend np vie pe 


ge 
in es opens a 





- | HENRY JUNIUS NOTT. 





a 


Hiauees suiseyei ye aye gee en 
he edit a ee nt U us efit ia 
te aan a land 
ie sus Pate! Lp Hered 
eel (Hea intuit 
ee ul SE Heh annie 
oleae ae) uci ete 
iui an PAigte HEDIEY ail Hpung 
j i fod, i2 ah a, 
t | a Hed a a id 
sue | alg [SU ala 
ilu Hs ask “Eas ie, 23825642 
ee ne 
ti al He u HH doy figs iTise 
ee i HAE He te 
une nul 

































BogEhib ice g2¢ 
Gt Pall 9 | 
| ee ali 
Hille ait RUNNER 
oe iG Bea ie 
aia abetitaialaicy Ua Tht ae 
fiat i Pa PH LT ead HG i] 
pas evay2 


ieee 
i sik 





Be i aS 
a (a i iif ie zu Pea ne ; 





5 a feilie sige Pear piictaysd cig j 
3 4 2 i ii ii af he ay aa @ iu a 3 332 if ; ] 
i 7 i 0 a 
+s ioe 383 i : rrrte sal uaitei gu 
«He aly aa ae Ha salle ti 


‘ 





ae es 


a ple 
ae, Call 


pal iventiay 2 








a uid nae at ay Pee zé i 
en ‘8 i = i wane F we i 
iG uty ie ‘i atl hid Hi 


id 


a <= 





22 





i 








i ii Ha ey, at 


NE 


KATHARINE AUGUSTA WARE; NATHANIEL GREENE; ROBERTS, COFFIN. 255 





se 


256 ’ (OYCLOPADIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 
nares | vrei 
rigrlecks the clothes. Gad hee nt cence a 
* * pron . * the ie 5 —_ 
And lady, whe thi cake you pre batt (eben pas ee 
‘And mark the babble's varied dress ‘on thy tardy flight. ‘ 

osromses| golds and Gro t* with me, = 
7 ai gaa Hor wal ine fan's roraroieg Hight? - 
¢ on the ; 
"at oko iw il sone tae 
His anise’ is x all comers, from | Relentless, all thy blushing beauties blight, 

‘the “ Mouse king ithe or ihe Severs ne longer gaa 

in a public house, near the New York,” P age deen ene Sete ees 
Dy oat neo Seed, fon Ry. bet, iting slow ita matest head: 

For tans en spread, Faces Aah be 
No foe may here molest, And leave this darkling desert dread, 
to General La Christmas and the na ak ciiaem, 
of July are of course celebrated, nor is 


that day. 
First of eines Be ! 
ect 
Take eare—mind the ware! 
, Where’s the bundles t 
and kettles, broken victuals, 
feat ae 


ba 5 Nose and an Old Coat” show that 
the writer hapa Leela 
“Ode to suggested 
> y condition of the Bosrox Rage 


nent of this country,” stands in evidence 
that the bard held the poetaster’s usual estimate 
of his powers. 


‘Coffin was at one period of his life a sailor, or, 
hh gghhstag am Rem read Bachelor. 
Ho died at , Mass., in May, 1827, at the 


anes eS ith me, 
Love, thon flee, 
Nor wait to hear sad autuma’s prayer; 
For winter rude 
‘Will soon intrude, 
Nor aught of summer's bluehing beauties spare, 
Love, the rose lies withering by thee, 
And the lily blooms no more ; 





Natuastet_ Lana was born 
at Boston July 28, 1793. After a 

for college at the 4 
he ontered wl he completed 


: 
A 
Ed 
i 
i 


ies 
Ei 
e 
ie 
Bei 
i 


£ . 
iF 
al 
Fi 
Fs 
bE 
i 


i 

1 
if 
i: 
rl 


# 
i 
i 
i 
3 


if 
i 
f 
a 
Fi 


On re “ph e 
tion Sermon : 1825, On the Death of President 




















rs > 
bd % RES 
aa ——___—_ on 


os mnie: e3gcnss 2 a 





the hearty zeal, 
ee ie 
Was a serious canse 


| 
it 
al E 


i 
zp 


p 


g 
3 
Ee 
8 


z 
H 


? 
: 


2 


i 


i 
Ai 

i 
HE 
= 
Ree 


FE 
Hh 
it 


i 


3 
z 


The Record was conducted by Dr. 
Hawks, and besides its of pa 
pkey ty oe itations of the day ind h; 
the ication of the * Oxford Tracts,” in which 


manshiiy respect for the rights of the laity, 
which he had learnt in the schools of White and 
the iL made also a liberal pro- 


Bishop of Mississippi, his confirmation in which 
office was met by opposition in the General Con- 
-yention, where were against him 
out of the cial di ies of the St. 

Hall education scheie. His vindieu- 

tion of ee in this matter occupied several 
hours at the Convention at Philad and is 
described by those who listened to it as a mas- 


Seen conan a coe ae er ie oad Se 
nto (quarto of the weekly, aude 





Eiiciy the tamara 


te 
and for many Pro- 
potas oe aed 
by that most accomplished man | 


‘volume ia 1541. ' 








Ah. 


t 
Prawer 
a ee 
iblications of Dr, Hawks are ty 


‘ontributions to the 
etn 





The Ii 
goles wre 


Church with notes; a caustic 

Confession in the Protestant 
mublished in 1850; an octavo, 
fonuments, i relation 


Antiquities of Peru, in 1853 ; 





* The Official and other Papors of the late 





= | 








establish for his brother agencies for a new branch 
of commerce, the exportation of ice. He was 
engage afterwards in some other commer- 
cial transsetions in Europe requiring ability and 
address, In 1809 he delivered the Fourth 
of Joly oration in Boston, and in 1810 prey 
the Phi Kappa address for Harvard, In 
December, 1814, he wrote the prospectus for the 
North American Review, the first number of 
which appeared in May, 1815, under his editor- 
Tt originally was a combination of the ma- 
ne and review, admitting light articles, essays, 
nud poems, while the staple was elaborate criti- 
apes peared in this style every two months 
will , 1818, when it was changed to a 
juarterly publication. Mr. Tudor wrote three 
aay of the first four volumes, 

Tn the yeur 1819 he published his volume of 
Letters on. the Bastern a book which with 
some diffaseness handles tupics of originality for 
the time with acuteness. In 1521 he published 
a volumo of Miscstlaniea, collected from his con- 
tributions to the Monthly Anthology and the 
‘carly volumes of the North American Review, 
Ha very ogrecatle light}. Wis mired Lt ¢? 

a ight; il ive 
May Otis appeared in 1823. Ih is a view of 
iterates of oe pact ars pramudad ates nk 
personages aro presented in its ani- 
inated, picturesque pages. 


combo after the fashion 
Peng gol at 
1 Geberal ; the Misertes of 











for SPORE i ATE RR SRLS hil 
Phaeton yale ee Iblished 
at Boston in ent Gebel 
Far nas voters iption and 
speculation Josep Sheree anos of 
most. important, nations oh toe, eld wae 
wetalon xe Giscnased Ds wave 21 10 meet 
on a mountain in Africa, the 


pie, its 
name from a legendary conceit that Gebel Teir, 
in was so called from an annual council 
of the birds of the universe on its summit. In 
this re coh 
represented for the Eastern 

the pigeon for the West; the robin 
die; and the vulture and the mocking-bird for 
the South. The pheasant, the b bird, and 
the bat, are the members for Spain; marten 
and thrush for and; the and cock 
for France; and the ibis for the Elysian Fields. 
jament the 


ready for the which with his official corre- 
spondence will probably be published. 

As a member of the Anthology Clob he was 
one of the founders of the munificent library and 





fine art association, the Boston Athenmum, a cir- 
cumstance which brings him within the range of 














by his own pen as well-as by the mnse 
his kindly inspirations of na- 
hardly neeved to temper bis always 


charitable judgments of men, His character has 
delicately touched by Bryant in the memoir 
a the : erie and awn 
sympathy e 
prefixed to his pal 
oo me ng th nile of 
was the sii profound 
sensibility ; of a kindling aaa rapid eagimation, 
which uisitions 


ture, that he was so near-si 
seen the stars from his childhood to his sixteenth 
year, when he obtained inte 


That American literature experionced a grent 
Joss in the early death of Sands, will be felt by the 
teader who makes acquaintance with his well cul- 
‘tivated, prompt, oxu t genius, whieh pro- 











Hi 


i 
i 


E 





gave it as his opinion that rivers sega ti 
Lord to feed canals; and it is trac that Providence 


ject. Good taste and enterpri 
aren isely what they ought to have done, with- 
out vias the propriety of nature, Those who 

ved its wi \o8iis, 
were, it is true, not a little shocked at what they 
could not but consider a desecration; and thought 
they heard) the nymphs ecreaming—* We are olf,” 
when carts, bullocks, paddies, and rollers came to 
clear the forest sanctuary, They were ready to ex- 
claim with the poet, Cardinal Bernis— 


ona étonnante barbarle 
vasservir la 


haunts re the 


riante prairie” is now one of the pret- 
tiest places you may see of a summer's day. “It is 


‘ly ealled the Elysian Fields, und does, 
TER atl ne epecaior on 


of wsph 
iaczeates 
Tt is now clothed in vivid, tran ft, emerald 
green; its grove is worthy of being painted by 








ROBERT €. SANDS. Pay 

PRORM TO TAMOYDRN, r of toil and 
cit mtngecranee, | SHU UeT eet, 
‘The last that bard shall e’er essay! Of meaner vives searce Bor die beet 
‘The hand ean ne'er attempt the chords again, ‘These ximple traths went down from sire to con— 
Loose appa esa Mile ole ‘To reverence sluggish hunter's share, 
Where aweeps the ocean breeze way, And eraven infamy to abun,— 
it ah eee And still avenge each wrong, to friends or kindred 
aie ty fovly: 20m: the lay, — done. 
is harp lies buried deep, in that untimely gravel’ | When waving deo Seo theless ane 
Friend of my youth, with thee the love ‘The ocean-monster, with broad wings 
Of saered song; the wont, dreams, Came gallantly the virgin tide. 
"Mid classic realms of past to rove, Few yeara have And all their forests’ pride 
O'er haunted steep, aud by immortal streams ; From shores has vanished, with the race, 
Where the blue wave, with sparkling bosom gleams Their tenauts erst, from memory who have died, 
Round ahores, the mind's eternal horitage, J sey rape, Wie cea Wee ee eae 
For ever lit by twilight beams ; Tn each green depth, and. lone, sequestered 
Where the proud live in storied place. . 
Beckon, with awful port, to glory’s earlier age. Pe aed ys erate 
‘There would we linger oft, entranced, to hear, Saves from oblivion, of strug won, 
O'er battle fields, the epic thunders roll ; Pend hdmi nat byt rhymer meet, 
Spree ane malices ds : a a pOreeiieas wee eae, nanes remain ; 
Through eel ; young, strain, 
There we mark, uneurbed b fi control, Fist sete the ime eae brave, 
In central heaven, the Theban ‘ And bid their martial arise again, 
fie (ns eg Bylaw Cn ane soul ee tides roll ny tee geee 
me or bard, w sane ae ty Merde romantic steeps are piled e 

Friend of ! with thee 

SRSA ills tree igre rare ROCL hy ‘And oer thy anita fae 
SWhics paystery, brooibing o'er tba waters, ete Misled in realms too long,— 
Siape eect able oor wes lose ioe, pechap her vsius ie Se 
SMe Mais vie vocal, eon” Such thriftiess pastime should with youth be o'er: 


wonder, | by clouds o'ereast, 
And veiled in sacred ave, tnt it t be 
most worthy for the free. 


& 
: 
. 
: 


The ing ranamte a aes cen oa hi 
es were taught 
ot ag 


Kind nature's commoners, from her they drew 

‘Their needfal wants, and learned not how to hoard , 

And apy strength and wisdom crowned, 
We, 

But. 


presenee, that abroad 
The, all his works,—their Father, 
"King, and Ged, 


But, no! the freshness of the past shall still 
Sacred to mem holiest musi H 


gathered lets wild with thee ; 
When reanlserer Ow verlialore ual fisge 


Like two proud barks, we our careless way, 
That sail ight o'er the tranquil sea; 
Their white and their streamers gay, 
Bright gleaming o'er the main, beneath the ly 
my 
And down far, reflected in the clear 


Swift wafting, bore, by Heaven's all-wise 
Tb sown arta ae, whore ech diy 
) seen, 





GRENVILLE MELLEN, 217 

‘The fiend that infernal rivers stole For where is he*—who | 1 ao 

vets rn to ch tree Ki pate lr a a i 
Sook upon hate carats bain ‘Whe sal for lenralige soba wan tt 

And then hace th leap would be be laste Weerehe ‘backwards to ‘ Wirth 

Saw al, and earth ar water willy ewia, Ae a Re es Tal 
With eyes of many multitudes, dense sud vast, Found ont the handiwork of Godlf 


FP opeaPouk: 
HLT 
fe BBE 
Pia 
! a 


I 
Be 
: 
i 
L 
i 


zeae 
He 
if 
E 
= 


streams have worn their barriers low, 
by the sea drunk up, for ever cease to flow. 
who chooses to jump down cataracts, 
sais eterna cae 
‘Such as in clotest ‘eridouce appear. 
Else were the laurels of all ages sere, 


a 
E i: 


as they truly rit 
Shail tell of him; he Sed be ae Careigeil 
Thou, who tl "6 
a A Aten Seer ane 


Oh Time and Death! with certain pace, 
‘Though still unequal, hurrying on, 
Oertorning in your awful race, 
‘The cot, the palace, and the throne! 





Where heh i the mri ead 
to on heaven, trace 
that shall tread 


Where he—who read the mystic lore,| 


Where he—who with a poet's 
Of teuth, on low! sake a 


even Poverty 
Classic, whea in 118 numbers glazed! 
Where—that old sage so hale ain 
he reat gree who sought to 
Who in his garden mused, and made 
All forms of rule, for all mankind f 


Thy pba Bee; beloved, 
ear where thy Wesley's coffin lica 
‘He too—the heir of glory—where 
auperecacart 
not to an 

Mukesh yo noble, vulgar deal 
But hark! gretcila sl 

esottha banca » perited a 
To make an infant empire free, 

Obeys the inevitable call! 


ATs 2 Row Se CRS 
The wisp, their monument sul 
Young in eternal fame they are— 

Such are rour triumphs, Death and Time. 


GRENVILLE MELLEN, 
Grexviin Metren was born at Biddeford, 
Maine, June 19, 1799. He was the 
of tho eminent Chief-justice Mellen, of the 
Court in that state. He was graduated at Har- 





eg | — Ea 


a sustained published at Boston. Her on her 
Ta Tear be abllot Our ‘Gheoeice of Teeny: The benuifl shame fits by—an 
8 satire and in 1820 Glad Totes and S07 | Roses ancl Duds nve struggling thro" her hair, 

a volume in ‘from his contribu- | mist hangs lke her brow—anid 
tions to the periodicals. The chief collection of | iat hati ike hight pon hee brow—and sest 
te Pe Ohara Vella, ond other Peome. Of pure luxuriant youth—ere yet the sun 

Buried Valley, and Poems. Of toiling, heated life hath it, 
And evattered all its fragrance to the winds, 
And doth she tremble—this long cherished flower! 
a hal say — Oh! wonder not that glowing youth like this, 
To whom existence has been sunshine all, 
The tale of faith of tral and of death, 
From Boston he came to reside in New York. | Shands with x fearful teie-shovld be dumb 
His health, which was always delicate, was now | And quake before the altar! Wonder not 
much enfeebled ; he was i ea That her beast sakes i now 
tion when he made a yoyage to from whi She listens to the vow, that, like a voiee 
he returned without benefit, and in New | From out of heaven at night, when it comes down 
York Beet 1841, at the residence of his | Upon our fevered slambers, steals on her 
friend, Mr. Samael Colinan, for whose family he | And calls to the recalless sacrifice! 
felt the warmest affection, and whose house he pa Tegeiigisoaergrat but she vows 
had called his home for the latter years of his Amid her bridal tears, and heeds them not. 
life. Before his death he was Ssreentrapen a ee ee 
collection of his unpublished poems, whi still Under the heaving waters:—She hears not 


‘The very prayers that float up round her; but 
ee Veili eyes, al her heart away, 
to pression, tinged with an air Deaf to all cons bok teat low-taloed an 
of oly. He wrote with ease, often care- | ‘That love breathes through the temple of her soul! 
Young B at the altar! Ye 
With a stronger constitution his verse would pro- Sts tard of all ite loveliness one 


more lensed, . H 
ion. With a consciousness of poetic power bi flyer pitcnraite pl 


expressi 
he struggled with a feeble frame, and at times | ‘yo world is all too poor to rival this! 
to despondency. The memory of his | 9 summon nothi from the place of dreams, 
tenderness and purity of character is much che- | ‘The orient realm of fancy, that can eope, 
tithed by his friends. In all its passionate devyotedness, 
With this chaste, silent picture of the heart! 
Youth, bud-encireled y purity, | 
Young Beauty at the altar! Oh! kneel down Yielding their bloom and fragrance up—in tears. 
AN ye tes moe foi pte Into face, The jises have past. And. 


er face, welling pave 

breathe low forher. Sea atherside | Up from the lowly throng a faint far 
ee ee in their latter days, Breaks on the w loco pilively 
Pondering that bitter word—the last farewell ! Sweet voices mii ‘on the mellow notes, 


‘The father, with a mild but tearloss eye— Lift up the gath melody, till all 

‘The mother, with both eye and heart in tears! Join in the lay to Jesus—all, save they 

He, with his iron nature just put off, Whose hearts are echoing still to other sounds, 
Ls hg haf Aaa eg ae lae ‘The music of their yows! 

‘To witness holier vows than bind the world, 

And taste, once more, the fount of sympathy! ™ aver. 

She from the secret chamber of her But till the dingle’s hollow threat, 

‘The home of woman! She has softly come Frolongad the awetllog pole 5 

To stand beside her child—her only child — ‘The ow saved an tel em, 

And hear her promises, She eomes ee vee aera 
With hands laid on her bosom—yet “lets ord ne anmrig a. 
«fatal eecpaen ae eh ah eae of He Lake 
Like that of childhood, from that pallid enchanting horn! 

‘That hung for hours on hers, ‘Whose music the deep snd air, 
Taiha loop: wetebfel years of tril. Now, Swells to the ofouds, and calls on esho there, 
She See ee any yournegelny ‘Till a new melody 

To take her as an infant arms Wake, wake = th 

Pea tapes ween hee —ere the Is bendi ey wi hat turban tb 

CSU etal 2 A plea ‘With atl stare beamniug on ber sxure crew 
The isin eemaet The whole world 

Contains for her no , now, like that right at ie poledaaaore 

‘That centres in her full and thrilling heart. When the far voice of waters mourns th song, 


Her eye roves not—is fixed not—but « And some tired w f and 
pon ER mone imeem pelaneg Barks at the ey Jon. 


Pry 


ate 
PROSPER 








ay iE au uel 
EE tr ae) 
Hn ae us AE i nla Hae ay ie 
! aT ae fu | lie Ala F ene a sal 
fine bata atl ae Jabiilnee ii 
Bie ne yi Ties PL its 
ete ile a PEOPAL: By 
eit ae cine Nt 
Bulelde “ re ees tals N ie 
s a3 ate i: a . Bas : or 
ae hat ie ae 4k Seat 
cil Hn peut HS jig 
HE an nm ae eae eu) hin 
Hain aU zaik Hi 
avis 8 
2 











—OLIVER 

Tue twin-brothers mame together at the 

Ee ee 
of ew were 


born 
were educated 
under 


close union of birth and education was ac- 
companied by a similarity of outward form and 
inward ut. Both were men of eminent 
natural it, of ripe scholarship, of “= 
“ 
ional 


William theology. 
Oliver, GD rere some time in his father’s 
his legal edacation at Cambridge, 
wactise in his native town, 
eleven years, serving for a 
rtion of the time in the state Tlegialatare, and 
also occupied ut different periods as editor 
i Gazette Exeter News- 
In} he delivered a poem before the 
Phi Beta Kay jety at Harvard, and shortly 
er iuilar production at the celebration 


1831 Peabody 
where he became the assistant of his brother-in- 
law, the Hon, 
ship of the North American Review. He was also 


Tn 1836, Mr, Peabody was 
of Probats in, Buflulk county, " 


ted Register 
ious office, 








and Obristian Examiner than Spas nh oe 
iol 
Me 


mul 
Reales and of the Report of the Orni 
‘Manaohasttte; prepared ha tolbteneor ot be ets 
as one of the commission appointed for the scien 
SSO Ea am oO 
Ir, Pea 
ints of asuilation between himself regs 
brother, was feeble, THe suffered a severe depri- 
geen 1868 by th Joe eae in the 
lowll ear a wi ‘some 
xpi tha, place aft 


labor. He diced, after a continement to his bed of 
but a few days, May 28, 1847. 
A selection from Dr. Peabody’s sermons was 


a temporary Bre in his constant course of usefal 
5 


tion. e work was completed by Everett Pes- 
bod; soon after its publication, prepared a 
salevtion ‘from the cont to the North 
Review and poems of its author. 
MOXADNOCK, 
Difen the Sal see ea 
storm has ceased to bent, 


oat ae ae . ng now 
in reverence roun; 

Taaw thi Betbacdet 

On his firm head in wrath descending ; 


| 


‘Till life’s short warfare ends for ever, 


MAN GIVETH UP THE GHOST, AND WHERE Is HE? 
Whore ishe? Hark! his loncly home 
Is answering to the mournful eall! 
‘The setting sun with dazzling blaze 
May fire the windows of his hall: 
Bat —_- shadows queneh the light, 
And all is cheerless, cold, and dim, 
Bave whore one taper wakes at night, 
Like weeping love remembering him, 


And heard the low nnd straggti 
raithe Hvieg to te dead 


Where is hef Hark! the marble sa 
‘That “ here the mourners laid his 


And here sometimes, in afte 
came, and sorrowed for the dead 
But one by one th: away, 
And soon they left me here alone 
To sink in uno! a 
A nameless and o stone.” 


% 


: 

5B 

ez 

gf 

gb 
iH 
FH 


ee 
i 
A] 
an 
ui 
i 


f 
A 
i 
ii 


| 


Erilatsphia, Bopten 23, 1825. “He is the 
is , 5 au- 
thor a troductory Memoir” prefixed to the 
Journals of officers in ‘3 








ee aot cae ae it He eee 


ra Bie Aut setiy 
iat? ie 


vn 


Est 2: Bre : 
al Hn seit) re 
ae aed 3 ab Pa a STE 


os 
he m 


They 











natural 


ii ae uate i nate 
1. al 3 a é i 7igil a ae bil ee 


ae external 
ol lebetad a3, 


ir. 


alsa "Ce 


‘ity ; and the mind wei wees 
0 fair wey 


sirstion collects and concentrates 


of our 


ies 
to in 
ore 
ean 
where all 
and where wi 
meet a pen 
ae 
ma soe of 
Eames 
cd. 


ids are 
are 





nature seems 


pate de 


iy 


waits 23 
vee Frei 
iF HundHuh 


those attenctions fade nnd disa 


‘character, exhibit 
best 
these 
OPPORTUXITINS OF WINTER POR 
and the dol 
and the forests 
Timits of da: 
end, and 


tent ath 
In the warm 


ae SoH Hay 








lhe EeWtTHEE No) HE HH 

ale ae z euler cE eat 
iH Hei EH ues ae Na a 
ipl i iaieiucaiin < Be ily 

L i Hapa Pang i Race He leat NEE a 
PUT reve pape eo fall EE 
ae tl ne dee 
ee ay MPT EGE lass & ah 
Hi La (eae we Ghee Greig 8 re 
fee et ctpeueitieet (ul let alte | 

Hi il Lea i ee ne gait 
vey et eel Roi Halli | 

z: aL zt i 

ail aun Hi ue u ict re lg aus | 
Li Banana | 


ee 
! visite abtadial tli: 
a eel 
Bip 








aie eae nal RTH Hae igi iF 
en oe 
i Hy ilie! il Hae : aul ie 
an Hi Hee eRe 


: Ie neath 


tie Beats at 


Tare area ei ae 
Guay Hi suHeil 


Fre 
23 


au ee ls ges Gderiaeeestiee Lipa 
J a Hla on eel 
W say fail gs iieue iy Fae i 

ee ater pei BENG ind oa ie ae 
Rui Sith HuaEnHA | itd 




















243 gus 425208 : . 
fren dig dalel Ginlaiel Waitie Be 
: a : 23: 4: é 2 23 i #3638 ea sat He FL i 
| eyes i ue dhe RULER bedi) qed 
Bee BaD = int i Heel : ie nate 
piper MST RMP i 
eb ! La MT MeU AMM 
ied a He) ay ine fits “ail Cie] Gieep Seay? [Eads Laie 
= Ee hie re He sil He % 38: te ik Ban 453) ds - id iz A 
Hae 3 fh eietrae iy re Ere eae ellis a i 
i . i ge5°32 rH 3 A ale ih HHT: quee a 
Ei Peete ule ula, vale sath eatie 
Hit yal fay Hine ee ae pre al Lila ne 
E324 33 Safes pai i wl 











he a 
Han Hea hg Ed 
an nine iin atl 
tn ag 
+h HE Hi uy “2 

3 fate TA qe 
: : Wa LSE AE: 
: de ae ae 
fey abl ality 
ae a ie : Aa apne 
§3222° J He S38 





nee ae 


oF 


eis 








conveniences or essentials of social life, are the 
topics dixenssed. 

On the 6th of November, eas Mr. peek, 
who had just completed an address at a politi 
wane at Pittsfield me to the state election, 

eat Pinte reer Peeremes acce afar 
oat 





reosived an excellent educa- 
eee en earh, A See 


fotaeecectncrs te 
gious traet, but expanding in the writer’s hands 





was 

ce ty the aati | is to ex- 
at's ike size of a novel. Its success war- 
and induced the writer 


Tie 
5 Clarence, 


BH 
ef nee 
an 
He 


= 
aE 
ie 
| ; 


: 
te 
g 





oy eketehi some of 
bal ct ai the yop de bad eh, 
F Baie tour in Europe. . 
Miss Sedgwick bas ey to the I 
ph Pang "Lip ta oh 


en tier in Py 


Mics Sedwiek’s life has been princij 
in a place of her birth, wie ae — 
Stockbridge is one of the most 


of Berkshire, but its ee 
ascribed far more to the Sn i 
Sedgwick’ NF seoniioe tiloeie kes givaeie 
than to its great natural 
The best trait of Miss ick's writings is 
the ainiable home-sentiment whieh runs Coe 
) this 


inements; but 
practical trait she has cultivated the 
element in American fiction with 
Indian character in 


Cbepeegie 
oat is ero SHS 


Gidtio toomee 
Mr. Sedgwick ras the See eee 
Pa Company, 


New York Crystal Palace 
_ 








: cH HgeyTTNy quai 
Se TE nS ER! 
i ‘ bat ute et nH ih Hii! min (hi 7 i] i 
Semele ane aR Oa 
if at af aaa uot a Hii ei 
‘ ae S235 g22 Peni 223345 a3igsge 

PT ee lig Hay ae 
a HS ce IT ET 
F Hite ble jit: Lea | He itl ii i] 
ean ee ieee late HHL EOT GH iy 
i ced cet deeepasesgizceras si LF id HOPE gists 323 NE 
Pia i Pl fel tie a fi Ha 7 
ipa fly i] na HH! la da ee lel Hain Hy 3 





a ini ‘5 








: a “= 33. 
Hy ae aii iu : Hl “it aah nae 
: ie i ip if a i i ae ee Hi 
ay rit i i iis j Hie a3 al Hig a ai 3 ¥ 
ey silat Heel aly Easier eR 
iz ik 3 ee wi a . Lindi debe af 
5 7H TL HEY ermets HUA EH ie Hut 
E pili Te eiial ssapeeh tage mg _ 
+ iB We aE geo itll PINGUA! PAINT} 
3 ie Hes i Hf rlgutdiiydatgd call ls HIG 
ui Hath 3 ie aH ate nae le ae 3|i 
Ps Hy 3 Hig. { badd a3 beau I ai $sftE 3 
PEO HIEIAE Hie on it rahi 2; Taek eH ae 
i Th Hl | eT Ln a 
a BE AEE aie Sap avis e525 is 
Ge 
5 Hen UL iH Hla iii : 





rie 


wit 








pe 1H 
A an BS52 
ace H we Ha oH 
eatenet eee 
a He tel et ie 
fecal Hu Ha ul ji bly 
cuneate GE iil 
ees HLT unin 
oH z= oH a | BHU fl fini 
alan tie Pee a 
Hall ia es i 
: Ei 2 a <3, ier 2 $232 yu 3 I 
oe a ice ee | ! 
i eu il eae) 
aout : 















iB un Beet Ee i 
Se a qu laa 
bai eereide asduyaqatedeed duedtiigeee seal guia: rere ase 
ee Me A ea in 

Sta eerie Gasca BU ene 

Bitaulbiee ean ie lap tite ate 

i aha Gain feisty Bald ead liag 
a pgaeryggiieqiti ue ih glpigqUeugtggepgieuiegn Uptpipvyalecacnaaesay 
Ege au ang ne 

: unis ia fetal nt ai Mn cane 

CE ais pale Balin sie 

i a ca a i 

Bie inl vini neg H ip 

g He aan eben aleluhi teen Hag 











3 ; 
|, 
nnn ail al ihe ipen 

: i - ile rae HB iH TG 
: a3 =2 Ht = e HE 4 a = 
5 Tee ie aaa He ea He 
a ith ya 0 He iH 7 Ae Lele pall 3 
aH ie an geet a a unt 

He ell aa Raa iat ond Bart 

Lidid, ae 348424 SHE EL gh SG Hf 
ne nal ie ae 
Hig a : me A re ald ara 
Halle Hy panes eee aa POD 
i Pia Da fe ; i tay flue 

Hae ea ae: aaa ieee " 
dali pat) ed ie Bae ee ida Te 
aa ee ea a al 

fet Het ane 

Ah rf ui ey 





— 


208 CYCLOPADIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 





jostled out of place bobra- thi 
u—a woman's belowed, 
Siresdenedarie ie whumtncn | Raxeieatentas 
patel | Serine 
aera ag ace lt 
: that 


Sree 


in some or of the is rar or sight, 
beautiful ! ‘acca for any lower Peomygecrey ofim 
of the Earth. ‘COLMRIDGR, PROM THE GREEK, 
aaas Ciperripaeti tly Seen fer dary] ~ 
behold a celestial 
tem vapeior im disagad tortaae hove aes Sit ype to Sie yeag eae 
hope to eel ‘ow listen, for this isthe ex- joy, true joy, to ‘soul of mortal mant 
Supe ad hin pete af gina a dor Oar ta of ee beauty suet as 
nice iflow exact his time is! thet ako hove jae fr thine tible da- 
a arm he has, and how aby his ight! scattering 4 that cau never wod 


the beatitades, “ Blessed are the pure 


arifcaeicer cea tn, | Het 

onl us for they shall see Gon.” 

Eien and as well! but, poor thee pec g tothe seteeal Geak the there 
never 


do. say he has no fortune, and for my exist only darkness und dulness and vague chyotic 
masses 





ever able ” , in thy presence, and fashioned 
And seal gee this Waltz—inetead of | by the hand of Hit whose spirit breathes 
Eek he erode yen ee that thy apt. a once breathed pon : 
condition glowing health; — ground an father race 
at recalction of the ground oer wich he Hy, 
moves ;—of ernment of his own choice, the ‘Thine are the mountains. and the valleys thine, 
webien biceage “eke lanctnhe fee cabete And the resplendent rivers! 
siest maillions of nnoseuph Thave at the head of this essay a fountain 
acres ee eriarce, an se Pah Bik clea of golden and all that T ean hope or ean desire 
climate, that belong to it;—of the deep blue sky | is, to behold some one young I ‘Kneel with me at 
of Joy and bealth that hangs above it ;—of the Gop ita brink, and fill his rn with Joy. So great a 
that watches over and protects us all;—and, Instly, of my own life has been iu quest of 
pes pees being witha Wife that might make | which sa aot bread, nor light, vor joy, nor. spiritual 
any destiny one of by sharing it—what | sustonance, that all its waning hours would be made 
pct a neo rey decir ll ra vi His ‘is conpolnerase os ae 
Sep Spucceatiog inted out to only one inquiring spirit 
pene be gepeep Cae le share of Steinberger Phavesapeatey sy 
Wein, and doubts whether the Restaurateur | “And therefore I venture to write these few un- 
who provides may or may not haye had considera- words ind upon the tem- 
tion enough to—strain the Pusca. per in which things should be perceived; with which 
Bear with me once more, gentle Reader, while 1 they should be and studied, and welcomed 
recite the title of this essay, “Do not strain your | i the heart experience that is requisite to . 
Puson. aequire this temper is within the compass of the 
faa Wieienireio. human life of every soul sot ne Te 
‘Wiare te ond - of that life mny be made a step towards the attain- 
‘lp tie pti tand ment of it, There is no upon the surface of 
And the resplendent his to enjoy 
Wins propriety (het Dope can the earth so remote or desolate as not to yield 
Bat win, Tere tape, scope to the aspirations after such 
‘Kod stalling say," My Father sue thers ail * to the pure in heart. Indeed solitnde, or the 
i Deeb « leh, tary of the son! within itself, are as in- 
Ana by an ier a tthe aquisition ofall pital know. 
BL pe hele Aol lca . 08 the bustle and intercourse of ordinary life 
wat Gen snweariod are to that which is merely worldly. 
Font poned, sod and still upholds @ world When that mysterious impersonation of the Evil 
So clothed with besaty ‘ton Prineipie wae permitted to temps he Eaves 
= towards the consequences of fll-regulated 
‘Oh, Lady t wa receive but what we give, ambition, all the Kin; of the Earth were ex- 
And in our life alone does omture Iivet posed in rotation to his view, and all the 
Ly Ye glories of their dominion offered to his 
Ab | Geom Soo pond. epifenest faone farth and en} t: and again, it was 
Si old atone, that he taal ita body to the eae fron a 


—" 











j itesteagiae Aa ta sgi24% 
_& - mo ail ai ae #442 | 
: fiseai au Hae aH 
iia cue : a Ane aie, ae 
| : eae Be amie i ut Hi 
- Sa. 8S Peres " $22 3 as Be 2 5 s 
£ cali Ba tats tne i peti 
cin aie ual ete Hae haeipaial b HeG 
HTL we NUMA Ae aly PH al 
ita Et qld id) GRE 
i ig Het a niu vininwoeu” Hit 
: 222392 ES 22429555 2 = 
i ainuupali CT ai ae ji 
He u Ele aint ial data aa 
HEE ia lie idlen is 3 Ha Heat peli 1, Hal 
pabali oy cen ae le GL i uy i wel 
ali pilus a : iiltg fai ue iy = an is il 
null Hpi aN) ag Ee 
a eleaal a ae a tal 
ed ean * al 


800 CYCLOPADIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 
of “state and ” and of the f 
of his native Sountey "he ei hi pot ctr enn 

Mie weds ta rent eset Bakots | Cea terme 
his eth Yori pa ey no wisfed. by, te Soeetsole this imprisonment, when S : 
‘as to be taken from the windows in a fit of lond | and he studied vigorously, 
sobbing. He himself relates another instance of i and writi 
wets befor tne Metinnn dt Santetagt Gantear, | Yoeaton, wes oven a 
ee geet teres incaied | Tone eat 
there from Jena, living on bread and plums by | from Bonn to assist the 
the way. enea ny crervons (Ur te Saline he and did not rest till he 
fore the picture, that his emotion the | out of prison. When 
attention of alady, whom he afterwardsdiscovered tome of his 
to be one of the daughters of the great Tieck. ith whom he had 
She spoke to him, and encouraged his sentiment. | the veteran Laie 
pl Siti = rosget soar ey Aiea + al. ry ena hea 
soon e vi ® Was s00n 0! 
of fiftizen, while he i the 


ardor for the Uviversity of Berlin, 
Th 1819, soon after 's murder of Kotzelne 
had directed the attention of the government to the 
triots, Lieber was arrested. 
nt of four months he was dismissed, 
stated “nothing could as yet be discovered against 
him,” except general liberalism, while he was in- 
formed that he would not be itted to study 
in a Prossian University, and that he could‘never 
“employment” in the state, He went to 
ie gies of Jena, lest Be took at once 
e degree , to re the privileges of 
un_“ ncadernic citizen” of that institetion. 
Tn 1820 the government informed him that he 
ight pursue his studies in the University of 
but that he must never expect employment 
in “school or church,” He passed his time here 
in the most retired way; yet the police inter- 
ferences were so annoying he resolved to live 
in Di . In the autumn of 1821 he travelled 
on foot through Switzerland to Marseilles with a 
view of embarking there as “ Philhellene” for 
Greece. After a lite of great privations in Greece 
for several inonths, Hing ae an he was reduced 
to the utmost want, he 4 himself obliged to 
reémbark for Italy, where, in the house of the 
Prussian minister, Niebuhr, at Rome (which held 
ef Lagan) ba fouel tho Sinden recapton, Te 
@ kini . In 
Meters hous he wrote his German work, 
Journal of my Sojourn in Greece in the year 
into Duteh, i Ae Dishing title of th 
into , Wil le of the German 
Anacharsis, with 








Paul Thad ‘written to Lieber. but the letter. had 
never reached him. Jean Panl was now deal, 
and Lieber, in a distant country, no more wrote 
German poctry. He penned, however, a sonnet 
on the occasion, which was widely circulated in 
Germany. 

The poems written in prison he published 
Berlin, under the assmned name of se 

ava hae apse that te Arrest. was 
pendi e took refuge, in 1 in England, 
where he lived a year in London, him- 
self by sp ey and a3 a private teacher. 
While in London he wrote sine ah let, in German, 
on the Laneastrian of instruction, and 
also contributed to several German 
and journals, 





Th 1897 he camo to the Tnited States, where at 
first he delivered lectures on subjects of history 





ie soc er ge 
Ht sane jee easel iia 
a an ae na ch i cae yuh HE 
Ts niet fa iH et st i a Hi 

ap sauvieiie aa}e 4] SHRI HY TEE 

i a RG BTA aaauee: 
: Zt F ae a3 we adel! aH j Fale unt ; 
i eet Oiled eee 
hue peduiianie hint | 
Tenia Hime ail ae ie eeagill| 
ae qi tellin yee gall 











apt 
i ean if 
Reece ty ec 
BEE Ae He wet iF i] 225 ff i ie 3° Le 2 i aye: ad 
Hu a whe Hlpidiis spr tiepeeeeagll Hang 
ee 3 HH mi wees Ht plaid ath 222 |} 
iu i it taal ate ai Hale 
Hcy a Perea | 
batheal! HEE atti Hilal biibs. BH si 
At ace eg eit ul # if 
2H 2 pe ate ate eceeie 2 y2883 
ee a iy Gee raed Ga 
; ine in ue a2 gre 3 oi i Faal 
Mageily ciate Bigtl welt 23 aisha meee 
itty! gee lest Pant Hey 
ee oe 3 E Hie Hy nar aaa i ee : ar 
He iy He i fag 204 HIE 3 
585) age ales te ule Hall Sabaddasircas 
 Wihatecat? 





FRANCIS” 
doal the a 
Genene pep ot he 
charactor ofthe gutlenan We have in our country 
Sitiie, aha papier fried 
Seale wie Seen oe eee ee ee oe 
our country; for Washington, the wise nad steadfast 


i 
H 
Li 
ee 
i 
I 


say 
i 
Hi 
aed 

i 


z 
i 
: 
[ 


$ 
< 


‘ain joss in the British 
ear tea regen nestion to a fair 
affair which, but a short 


fLTy 
rie 
ES 
es 


genuine personal urban 


if 


inion with reference 

so much its hardships, 

ing on individuals, aid more 
& welcome peace, than a gentleman) 

m the commanders, officers, and, indeed, in all 

combatants hada their jes, whenever an 


enemi 
offers itself. Clee a a lal 

proofs, but I observ: lepsydra 
nearly run ont. (Lets rial merity- ‘eld. (aaa, tnt 


i 


i 
F 
Et 
i 


_ 


ue 
= 


i 
i 
z 
: 
af 
Be 
i 


A) 
Fleet during life—shoald be fin 
being degraded from holy 


Preece jest edt 
(3 ‘itt a Pr Hci 
: ke eel tal bane 

“tnt He erie, 


Atal LE Hine nei Se os2a 
RE 


up: HE | Has fre 22 2 
ag ii EE a 23 § 
ae fiat 
i ce : : nella see 4 He ub 3 a 


5 P at 
le if: 

















sn two vit 


E 


il PR nun [Me eae ae i ul 


momentum. Resuming the record in 1862 with 
the publication of the fourth volume, which traces 
the period from 1748, the author advanced rapidly 
to the fifth and sixth, the last of which, bringin, 
the narrative to the immediate commencement 
the Revolution preceding the actual outbreak in 
Massachusetts, appeared in 1854. Here, on the 
threshold of the new era, the author pauses for a 
woes we may be sure. to gather new strength 


approaching conflict. 
Pi some ot philoso) ical sete =) 
ion ent 
of the elements of ming in the country 
—trom the settlement of the first colonists to the 


free, he maintains, from the necessi 
human constitution, and becanse it 


; whether in the yeoman or 
eboreh orat the bar; inthe 
jokes ietetieel he UN cB 2 
rugged independence or 
easy sufferance of Louisiana : this is our historian’s 
Soroctoes oad reoctant facto fs ecpons, an 
it to its an 
the keener 
more 


in anticipation; 
The history 
of liberty, The author 
this central law. Hence 


may read with — 





CYCLOPEDIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 





which 
| handled by the light both of modern science and 
| philosophy. 
To this enumeration of Mr. ES ae 
of 


Colonization of the United States; and among 
other speeches and addresses, a lecture on “The 
SS ee 
Republic,” in the course of the New York Histo- 
in 1852; and another before the 
| Mechanics’ Institute of New York in 1858, on 
“The Office, A) Culture, and Duty of 
the Mechanic.” 























a $528 PATE 2 15825553 =EE Pret Seu sSezeszeEs 
CE Ca a me 
if du i i a AE areca (aia 
Peet b aH af aa 
Hee an Heelies i i ie) pie 
i a ae ae ae i Pak nai i 3 ah; 18 eke 
Hee ate mae) EAM 
: i iH HEH GEE ie HE Hue AnUeiah 
@ fseiets abit FI tae Pee ey eiqaee saa 
Ba tl ae aed pate He, He ial He HIER te 
ie iy u He AH Ee Hille sete eet 
: ae U Hipdiiiadti HED Hale 
th Hh LTH UL EE PEP Gl 
Hite ne a Hl BE 

HEE is pour Hae i 

ee tie i es 


ee Haag et i eae 





2 He 3 enn fatngsy petit 44 TH aye 
if bil al ae i it : ea aaa Helly i | i it in a 
ul Hae fei lay ; ie a Hh i Hea 

He ee ae 
Fi rt i} BZ aa fre i i 4a] 
Ai ll HE ae Hee a ne iu 





j sale tt F en Hii 3 
ui ee idle it ii Au a Te ih (li 
fi a He Here 
HTH Lee tt is iy PoE HEE 
alain heat Hs Hu 
int WBE au i sepa 242 
Se ey a 


#8 


Het | 


or 


ee ee 


Hn Hl flue 


eang 


vl 
w 
aeolian 


almost resolved 
slaughtered 

aut ie 

ve fired 
on the 
Preston, 
and the 
ivored 


the 
should Jay 


and of 


ian 
HT al Hi He a 3 
ir 3AES Bae a. 2h we i 
sunt Hi Cae . 
aE Hane WEEE Hl 
aa uate bi ee ip 
tle iat lil p 
al uh Ae 328 tig? 
Papi 


H 
24 
PH EES 
ag 
Heol 


i, 


ofa ail 


Eby the 
them then retired, 
wi 
reo. No 
ae 
eritt 
were 
(OF THE INVINTTE—FROM THE 
SOCIETY ADDEEBS. 


many were absolu 
nee bodies, 
the foot-tracks on the suow. 
peace 
ke out, | demanding 
not know 
See should be made 





thi 


led his | All its sons came forth, oxeited 


and sone an eon 


8 
ae 


ed ba | Bo 
street, 
asking, 
is 
id the ba: 
or 
load: 

peers 
9 trig 
TS 
for the: 
itt 


4 
me Til 


CYCLOPEDIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 
mlatto, 
Sith soir 
With ba: 
the 
G 


eee | men returned to 

‘al 

, 

them, 
re 
said 
one 
- 

” ai 
care, 


by. 
if 
sho: 
a 
for 
and Mou! 


evening. 
up 
throngh 
came after 
are they’ 
downs 
primed 2 
ig to fire,’ 
sentinel 
ee 
touch 
ted, the 
do it wi 
young fellow 
aa resed 
aloud, 
‘th ratbechonee 
3 why 
ns 
aig 


ilatieens 
“A noch dn 


, called out, “Huzza for the main 


towards Df 
FPN, no; 
and 
and insulted 
others in 
ina 
watchwo 
ng of 
alarm 
{and 
offi 
Attacks, a 
the barracks was seon over, 
nest,” 
le 
ere 
a 
where 
ed me 
lobster i fal 
ce att 
wae 
a 
and 


to them 
Kilroi 


guard. 

beer 
atic 
ie 

Rass peg 

pacts mk 

es 
= re 


ried Preston, who wi 
“He 


uy Rey ae 


Hin 
tate Ha ne HE: Bata ii2e! 


to the 














Ssbtgsaee 2959 if 
32 He He i ah uslits B fee iF i 
eee | 
Se enh [pl 
Hae TRA anita b ; 
ee 
af ite Pree HHO “ln oc sole rainy ; 
2 44212 4224412371 3283 fai 3 Fi sels $3 S #3 
Hi r - nina au Haley 
an BF p ltagiece, fet eect sce E UE 
Boe bine BIRR MEST me Has 
Haig: alll dagaakntes (itunes 
3283 in iu ia eae taut a Pues hae 
ne Hee Ae fs Hu ing pall queen 
a BHT ‘i ate eet cent HIE Hin bh 















E FaRe7 

He Lalatiat . 4 

Ree apa tesa Mana 

igs fnielani z a] fiddeda Guus Ties i 

af allt i ue i Bul ee ee aes: 
1 Bt | i i ue ai ial anual iy : 

faga, fu Jl GE i De Gai ae 
jhuGl FE RATlese bagi uel 

Tenens ani aR 
ous ae dy 
i ale ll SH 
dahl il iy ne fatal calle i 

ee eal 

sg=aiis 2 382 
a8 Hig Hud Hodis al Hin me 





And children know His A, B, C, 
As bees where flow: set, 
_ Would’st thou a skilful teacher be i— 
Learn, then, this al, 
From leaf to leaf, from to page, 
acne aos 
Who tase tila wendeean r 
Point thou with reverent gaze to heaven, 
And kneel in earnest prayer, 
‘That lessons thou hast humbly given, 
May lead thy pupil there. 
GEORGE HILL. 
Gzoror Hr, was born at Guilford, Connecticut, 
Tie his co! studies with 
| alte ‘in 1816 ; was then employed 
| one of the public offices ‘ington, and. 
entered the Navy in 1827 as a teacher of mathe- 
En Hite cepacity lhe wale! craiee in the 
where his Ruins of Athens, and 





may’st find companions :—hither flee! 
wells, and 


ells, and men, nay, gods have ceased 


ere 

‘Wall, tower, and temple erushed and heaped in one 

Wide tomb, that echoes to the Tartar’s ery 

And drum heard rolling from the Parthenon, 
wild ig through it, owl's grey 


ay 
Gleaming among ita ruins, and the sigh 
the long avome Ghat wnieicdantalt 


race 
To mock, but not to shame them, reereants, 
‘Tho very stones Wiould rer heaped $ heroic 
Here let me pause, and blend me with the 
That were,—the shadowy world, that lives no 


more 
But in the heart's cherished hes ge ings — 
and the beautiful ret 


‘The Morn is ith cold and dewy 
Tike's vital Yeom hier cloister, facth, 


© Evereat’s Poets 
+ The 


CYCLOPADIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 


dear: | ter iy a i rons denon by 





‘in turn has found a home, 
her incense, and her face be ppheo ig rag: manners of an unsettled 
eaities ee | Sie etnies 
: merous w ve 
q s midnigh elicit’ isheard | which may at some fnture and not 
Paes eem ct iarem te Eos ere be Brand to exiet. only in sock g 
Beast el ees | et ha 
Noswle Memovil, that sccm wear scl pega, Seepnie of Weal 
‘YVestige of that whose glory, as a Tos ne , ean 
lives,—nn ire 
‘The Fg ees en gn te by Mr. W. ©, Richards, 
Land of of battle ! 
Should be my last: that, nurtured by the dews Peo Mareen xia Now fle des 
Of thy pure fount, some trom the trae, | Sand me ak wtoas 1 achat tae Sere 
We nny apr ance mieey | Seman eg nd pe Nee hw 
Now silent I plucked, but failed to rear, | ;1. ee ornate | 
Ast is, a chance-borne pil of the nen, Feat ti Otthe , Se weed 
Aer peste oS Decker was Satay Tass pecking. flats plas af view 3s wanes 6 
A pastiog worshipper, but humble and sincere shade darker than the rest of the county, it was in- 
se Sates, Cstieee cane 
. a Wi 
Spr tee TE tad which Tam speaking, in the very focus of all the 
Searaver La peldkstensiprarentg ell county's illumination (Lincolnton), he must himself 
‘Agha and pale ttn it ett bot bree ee a fe Be 
. ju nee 
aie dungconed Nations now once more respire | nor aside), Lincoln has become a ving prot" ht 
The Git wakes, aid fool he's fon, | GML Shine fa darn adlcrove even forthe 
By fountain-eave, that ancient Choir of Lonerabls sivtieks: F eoeld aaetieattene 
Resume song; the Greek astonished hears, orn instances of the \most memerous. end 
Sy ears nee eee aa wonderfaltremaltions. froma vice and Selly bo etréos 
open ipa lg ei aa tenet dae fe 9p bly 4 
Un too long we've bent the knee, fh, leat it should be ‘some what 
The enbling mind, to lavg 2 Tm st to rita curser af Ue oy 
wi it oceurred, 
A. B, LONGSTREET, Whatever may be snid of the moral condition 
Tre author of Georgia Scenes, and a native of | of the Durk Corner at the time just mentioned. 
ete ppl ar etl er ae eae Egg ht an) hep ban ie 
practised at intervals the somewhat diverse charms "i apring 
geonpations of law and the mlnisry of ferewalls nev charm em ote eae 
dist Church. Ho was for several years President , ts tus SS Dike ee 
ae oa takes Goons Mebaie Rexpl wy He soshaniieet he ee ee 
and who became leading men of the South, pee fesse me. ate Hang, fhe ope, 
ani the adventures which he shared with these he seme fo proved fom thik avert 
Tue aie, Beane aay, nerd ot antes telcgihag Shunde yack ee 
Yoottont: Ses tn the Feet olf Contury of the ee hres 
Republic, by a Native Georgian, which first # “You kin, kin in 
peared in a of the state, and sul “Yea, I kin, and am able to doit! Boo-oo-oo! 
sequently in a from the of the | Oh, wi al Soares ‘Brim- 
Harpers, in New York, in 1840. “ consist,” | stone and ——— fire! me, Niek Stoval! 
the author tells us in his “of nothing t's made up, and let's go at it. al pi, 
more than fanciful combinations of real incidents | *ul if I don’t jump down his throat, and 
and characters ; ani throwing into those scenes, | ‘h him before you can say 
Meee tes ct caveiere of et evss cod * Now, Nick, don't hold him | diet Tet the wild- 
ort sa word best salt 7 ms cat ak tame ‘od’ sce moa 
~~ at mies ‘ 
peer peeciee |areelia gees 
are we 1 wi “ T Haynes id when | 
leactinees: Sabai seek Sciue‘ol the'soena aa ters sow it hie roma - 
are as literally true as the frailties of memory oaths inter. 


BENJAMIN F, FRENCIL; FRANCIS PATRICK KENRICK. 315 
hich I dare i y history 0 I 
itech coat Sse Ig "2 inven Sue cabotion oes thetmatioees 


at te re five octavo, with th 
a enianee Tramants the Noe 
SS pias | matey emaiaaegae 


cal of th ont view Se 








if 
H 
3 
Hl 
ia 


i 

i 

Fe 

E 

ap 
ist 
in 
at 
i 

H 
i: 


£ 
& 
se 
: 
E 
1 
E 


# r 
<= 
F 
ji 
i 
ce 
Ea 
aS 

FE 

< 


# 
i 


H 
Bes: 
oT 
fe 
i 

£ 
ii 
i 
E 
i 
is 
iy 


Eid. 


“nlc with a tauuting curl of tuo moses ho | {alat Bardstown, 
i om, ® taunl 
ee oe needn't. Kil sir pane 4, | Sunday, 1 he was consecrated bishop, 
‘Was jist seein’ how I could a’ fout,” So saying, h Rt. Rev. Bishop Connell of that 
Rp hn ough ind in on aha office he succeeded . 
of the fence about yards beyond the battle Tn 1889 and 1840 he issued a work in the Latin 
ground. on di theology, in four volumes 
And, would you seen inde trees reader! his re- | octavo, Dogmatica, which was followed 
port was true All that T had heard and seen was | in 1841, '8, and ‘3 by three volumes in the same 
Thish fhe youth who had just lah me had payed Keep bet 
n 1887 he ‘a series of letters address. 
> neater eames gl to the Hey John 1, Hopkin Protea 
Went to the ground from which he had risen, | Eplsoo fg able a 
Glitea wie ths peas of Els two thambe pM Mee ae bh Ks 
Plunges up tothe balls fa the mellow earth, about Jouncils, hy conta ho prelate. 
t of a man’s eyes apart; and the ground | These were followed by a work on Primacy, 
ecuend wis beckon up 44 if two stags hod been eo- apes in ona ocbgoery ttyl ibs 


gauged upon just mentioned large portion. Ger- 

- nan translation of this work in 1852. 

\ BENJAMIN F. FRENCH. bt Leip Need ay ates ae pacige ia 
g F, Frenon was born in Virginia, June ee a treating 

41799, After reosiving a classical education he | sailar size on Tn 1849 he published a 

of tho Jaw, a pursuit he Er A tae ene sting of & 

health. ig nse wing se ay oe and ta 1061's ehallan Saaneten ot the teen! 

ea Ro ae ing of the New Testament. He removed 


a number of essays to various N - 
cals, he baad Biayeais i and | {0 the same year to Baltimore on his appointment 
stay ahr Moms of ft Female Writ | Dearie hae a series of 
ers, 1880 he removed to Lonisiana, in order lettens with the tle of 4 lication of the Ct 


feel niga i nme pari, tholic Chureh,t designed as 4 reply to Bishop 
i and translated interesting doou- 
‘ments in the French and langanges relat- © 5vo. Phila Tmo. pp. 288 











ee Me ae 
Hs Hon & bin ine. i aa ca ‘i S 
eal Cae ae : 
cnn ee 

ine HE Alle ani Hleet Hae 
i 0 He Sun TI: rer ane rr 
2. ] tall | : it ua i sn py 
43 gt ae a! aus aie i 

3. Hite 3 i233 vf dag 25 Ea 
Le hte 
EG) Gea 


‘Tyng delivered an oratton st the 
Honorable Fr 
to 


1858, Dr. 
of tha, 
and 
hich, 


Member of the Ancient 


*l 
centennial annl 








iad 
gSS¥s neal, 2 Le 
sue tea ee iF 
7 la rH uh iat cece lal 
ity ana 
ae fle te a eae ie 
el 
<i 


fell 
5ae28 ; 
aoiy ae 
20 aa al] ae 
a Hi 


LC 
te 


HE i 


ORGE P, MARSH. 
nip Stier 

7; JOHN 

, 

SEABURY 

SAMUEL 











abn 
Hilt Haus ita 
i as 4 lee bara 
Page i eee Ha Hey 
L Taal Huey r a At shies 
tg il ial! anal ve ce bay Haley! 
TE algalt Hagel ne vial settee F 
PGue ee eet A 
‘i mal ae Re i 
a 7 : hi al a z HT ial eae a 
fae ee a Cae | 
i, Hi [adil ee a 
2 til at Oey Ht i 3 Tet enan i pen 28 ae iat : 
Hil iH he ie ee ee 3 tei 2 
eHiail Be HEH Hd 242 Won ane f H 
HAT PE 
H nal I 














tt did 
<3 aterert | B : 3 g 
(ee Sa He 
; fils ae sis At ul i : 
eee ies | 
2 ee s Heseg: padia! th HE 
h ere His Te vital i 
a el HA 
in Hetil aaa "SET 
Bait i es Ze 5p e -— Eagegae? = 
qa HIP RI fie ia lai 
Peihige PereyT ieee rN +r 
He * bsaeeias eat shgraedes rede tg a2 A 
aasagTii iain Ha BE a reli 
4 35 £82595 53 dp Bey - F235 Fas Hepa Z : 
a ene ree lie 
i PHeuE HS ek nl ely ue iit 
E ia 223 Pie seitt a8 ey iery! ve aH 23 Hada 
gud puis re Cerra TERE a we ig Hi He 
me tt a ae a K ie Sie Hu rice \ 
ie ae Wi The A Hinue TREE 
. ei 
ae a Bas Hd 
Baers aa 
Z dh aa A 





me a 
oe 
ee ! tally ee [et renal mete 

LH Tiutlig 4 Ha ty at ee ie 

a ena 
i ea alle i ue 


all ik He a ne : 
en 


Au ant ale 





tf fa ene pe reg a 
ee a 









Hh a sjiatul Hi 

Baa HERE is iil aig ell 
a pai ae Le : 
pile) Ta HAE rel apa i 
ica at a efit uae iiddll eh Lg 
ee ; 7 
Ty Ht a 2 8 4 arts 23 n BP 
a u Ha sili il Aiigil fy, LAnd nas,i aang 
a Ha i 

se RGat iii nn eee yg Ue Suiceer| 
Hu Had py THAT ae He 
sasleslanlsHUnuite: zh 





B Uppebnitein 42338 ia24it yet BE pte 
i it a aE el fe iy fag Hae i i fe 
Br TH li tl i Cae i Hale itll 
wie 7 Hel Hae nite PUES PET er ay i HT Are iy 
zl ae His ule a Hg eh i : Hilt uF 

EF iy HIBEE stats nad . Hy iH i given Fae! it eae l 

ay a ea villa Eee ali ne nal 

-: Se ris Hel ii Haan Sh " Ha 

Prete nein Bune 

is i eT es if Fede ate 

ie rl Wa ade a Ba H Bi Te atte! 
il : Hoa gu Eee Hae i ae he us a “tos 
Ht 3f3°5 sit af un a] 


ile) bal ay Ht 


s i 
Li i 
HE inate if reunite tant aL 


He Hi: i itt 
ca qa8 











ae Bat * 


HL ye og 
a He bl fb adi dle lds ca, i 





i 33 FLEE ui , 
re e3 2 ee aaeaks if : a: 4 Was HEE if 
Ee in a ip 1: teal [s HG TUE TE Ere bh 
ite lt ‘ua en He EAU aba Gana 
UA WeRUGIEEH BERR ea ee es 
Sage “3 He eal vote 
aes PET MCh tal raeht ait 
: it ui gla rit halal AE as 
ue he ue E38 ; s¥eeiss : Fi i z : Ee 
tie atl engl) Td 
i fire anne, juny Bl 
fe al ape, TAG 
Hue LEP a 78 Eps { 4 iu SEES 3 if 
nan Hin Hi fee ati i i flap 
a HE er (HEH HAD 











‘Then the cross of Christ shall stand 
On that consecrated land. 


Yea, the light of freedom emiles 
ee 


JACOB B. MOORE. 


E 





Life hath its sunshine; but the ray tind eatorial desk, 4 all ae ola esi 
Sh Beseoces ie Sezeay were: The Patriot was st tls tnie-owoed tie 
Is but the beacon of " celebrated Isaac Hill* At the his 
ee peam ering andes grave indentures Mr. Moore became the partner of 
And though its dawuing hour is brig. ie cdi anhe rs apie ti 
nme i a aera iM 
Yet o'er its encumbered night, ister, his brother-in-law. ‘The two con- 
his rat parenecahiy kek Tae a Ler Yr 
Uf hath its fowara; and what aro the: | [imme to" dhe’ bookselling and publishing’ bust 
fra a Fy help a RO Hie hid! revtously- lise April! 26a oot 
r a 
a Hone buds decay and ie ae pica cane Collections, —Topogra- 
in an hour, behold them li: ii to New He was 
9 SE ATS prnly es Hemp wa se 
"Life hath its of di thrill; {influential writers of 
ae relewtless memory! pep — thant a Pe re Ho we 
Whi Merees Dot, until Beit where he pare thos of the American Fasrtoe 
‘The hour of. ath to be. ‘A paper started about stx months which he discont- 
‘Then, when the heart is in its tage. ao te ath of Api ‘the first number 
old alia At sat azul Yeas ing ot earious tienes eet tna a, 
opel doth reca tie oda of eenstot and ‘vpresautative in the State Logis: 
which hath died to bloom no more, tare. ee aoa Second of the Treasury 
‘Life hath its blessings; but the storm hie ed is lection bythe Leyiatare af is sey 
Sweeps like the rt wind in wrath, ‘asm member of the which bad refused to confirm bie Ho 
To sear and blight the loveliest form Pan pM rtrd cba rbee egw bhp a 
sports on itful path. three suocessive terms He established HIN 
oo wayiie ‘wel en Be tal long bees 
+ erbpaaaer tag ase Money | Be lear ty th att, with socom, ha he Tepe 
When all is desolate and In whieh he had so Tong Pattee a, 3 
Life hath its hope; » matin dream, Visitor, {a still continued. 
pores ten sateen Mh og gn 


i 
i 





‘BiMI UGG! lgiaue sainnqupes 
Huis Le ae E OE 
avast % eis wy Se 
TE Ent Ye Cuan eal 
ig inet uae fee Hee uel 3 
ute we ee abn lleeeaty 
ag Oates 
Ue ii ae eee 
pila ie abate: Gsineiny |e oily E 
i i . a a Ee i ee i al 
Bile sadaltpeeiiege 3 
i | idiot igale et 
a Lil i ane rte fee rely et 


the sixteenth of 


Woaram Hexry Sewann, the son of Dr. Samuel 
* Roy, 8¥6, pp 100k Boston: 184 


8, Sewari of Florida, Orange County, New York, 


ef | was born in that 


Hise 
and 


e 
Nation cores 
faces notices 


* Lancoser, Mem. @r pp. 082 t Dover, vera, pp Sth 





i it iatiat Hei tpt 
UE BEE 
HIE aj al i uy i qe Bay 
utile a sul felt ea ne HH 
i i Will fe nae ie mitral ii i 
is ui Hae ie Rate Hie ii nel ry Ay iid 
23 leu) HUGE ae Hanae ain 
Binley | Ha a at ALE 
Hid gases £ Ss Sei ze 3 le 
CTE CE 
rice ui H uy al uF i itd) | wT 
233 ong 29 3°5 s sEea2 é gees By a 3 
bala eset al ae an ay E 
= al A Hi ual ul nae He : Heide iatinl Pal 
seen ‘le Ht oe ial 
We weardacs 1byi i 
Ce ant HE 
#0 Hea i L 


a 








| (tara a i Ae 
32. 
Hi ea 
a al een Bi fifa’ 

howe ae th PSE el eee iu ial . 

rial nt Hee y 

nH] TE al ia BE es aid 

Han HB Ey tet ce nll! 

iu He sa cl Hl 5] Ht FE Hy L 
A i eh a ieee rE 

Henle a An ucla rail aly 

! ite He ee ee a 

3 gins BT dhe iL AF : 

qesae will al al i 4 

E S25: Thi 

ial fee 





Bnet 342 Rid ag que 2188 feet 
ee i ee 


a 
ey HE j A 


z 

. leilele aaa inn : 
ER ; nil Pini : 
ae Har ld A Hue * Ht 


« 
& 


fae 23285 


3325 i i ee 4 ets ai 
ae iss an el ihn i 








| nue an 3642 ire fil 2 2) ae 
i tf GRE ah el as aa 
Galle a 3 plete 
i Hug : ff Be abe ule i ial a 
a5 a Bd: getaesaia 
j ee rca a He PRL 





Sonth Carolina College. 


F 
i 
i 
A 


2 
Hal 
cere 
Eee 

E 

Sé 


d, would constitute a very 
3 but for some years past the 
exhausted by repairs to which it 


Ewes 
quite 
rete 
reeeres 

ui 
a 
Eg? 


F 
ie 
i 


late Stephen Elliott, Pro- 
Elliott. A 

books were aes by a Stephen 
r. Henry Junius Nott, 

Se erichienle Professor of Belles 
‘Since 1836 the sum of $63,874 has 

expended, The collection is rich in cost); 

ign works, illustrating the Fine Arts, Anti- 
quities, Classical Literature, and the specialities 


Mr. F. W. M’Master is the tt. librarian. 
The, welfaroofthe 


TE 
Pear 
; 


Eui 


Hi 


quarterly in advance, and that of the Profeesors 
twenty-live hundred, payable in the same manner, 





from the public treasury. In 1845 the Comptrol~ 
lanGanerel raporte tha wholaasrearh oF 


srproyration ann 


im ee to Si6;006; some $3, 
wo mi schools, oappropriation asked 
by Board of Trustees has ever apr arrh 


made, 

The Presidents of the College have been— 
Jonathan Maxcy, 1804 to 1820; 
1820, declined to accept; Thomas 


lenry, 1884, pro tem.; Robert W. Barnwell, 

: "Henry, 1843 to 1845+ 

Wm. C. Proston, 1845 to 1851; Jas, H. Thorawell, 
1851 to 1855. 


of having discharged 
in three coll He was hors ta A RiGanenaie 
Mass., So SO TT was educated at 


ii 


J . 

University, where in 1787, on taking his 
socom eeivertes 
for four 

vr Bi 


i} 


Having qualified himself for 
he was ordained pastor of the First 

at Providenee, and the same day 
Divinity in the University, On 

President Manning, in 1792, he was chosen 
successor at the early age of twenty- 
delivered at this time several discourses, 
were published ; a Sermon on the Death of 
ning, iscourses on the Existence and Attributes 
of God snd on the Doctrine of the 


HE 


5 
3 
BEA 


ite 





AE 


33 
by the part 
(oer 


ae Han 








; Le Hat i 

(Lanai ee ey 
ae ee yea Hae nt oo Ay 
fa ee ae eee FILS sate He jehthute 
dae iy ney Pane iladie Lee 
: a ats led i we gb2si% T Wi a ae a i 
PEDish at faa su Hed Pour sil 
4 eae Ay RUA 
Heald ul He Hoe Gla ee HI 
Bh ates ii PE aL gun sae teies ie a at ann ie ie : 
ait Hie eee ii ey fnge Thea 

iH pile Ae us ata a Bu a Hue 

il Hee iG au Hi ia a 
alt 

















S¥REe EE 

se fete ee et 
fi ee fea Hae ae 

sein at at i 
| da hai GT a laetitil 
re onl i pia a Le a UBL data! 
EGU UR Labi in GT eta 
bE ee lundiadienbieris Une Hite ee 
aad He peegessoes= = §29959.43 221d 
si ei He | Hele dae fe ibdl 
ees Semen a 
ie ee al ae isi Pe 
al ii ris teeeitel 
Le ao MAN 

= Es a Be = 
¢3i- aa Hl oF Head nee if 


—j 








giiy d257H7u 
Hy a que oH iG Bt it ptf get tte 
iy ula wee ea ij ene Te BMG 
re tna ving dni, nt inh Hie 
iu ene aie ut He 1 baile i 
| Hale i ee i it cae at re Het | lial 
— th il He aE eadneaatly 3 ie file 
PEPabeeeeat a4! ; nig geataaui é vel 

in a on Ex iH iit nea ie 2a a5 Pern reed 3 

Pall [4 23 NEES 2145 at TeE RHE 

a atte sisting canis tH He eunlil 
: gi dial Pen ain nietaga bd 
4 is ae idl itu Hh eile Hu 
itis Le eet ee Hee Hi 
Bi Lirire Hs at ahah i aig Pe 
* ik and) aud rE ALA 





tas te | a6 p upteriy aaquaat eh 
Fee en alee De 

i 7 a sell £2. ee eae Ly eal a an 
ee heat a le “fll nud yl: Hi iA a ; 
ey aE a i au Hite sane ie 
= Aidit ae i et (eT gE 
gg MMe Me 
Fe uit aie bh ih ae F “a : Ere F stile : ov ii 
oy al aeece ty aia i 
A ae ae 2 ai27f se 2 Siig sh ages pga al 
Pat He : ae : ie A : s3F ‘ap Heel aad #7 i 
oi a. i ai Bie 7 et Hae eee ae ane fe iota: Ly 
HEE LHL Ht si Cuan fell itp 





ORESTES A. 


Bue ftp aay eel ail FL es | i 
4 we aa i He ‘i eh He ilk ieee AF ‘alti alle call 
tial ta aur sie te nu Pease 








#2, 322425 
inlet Hale ay a ne a 
a . S i i zi2i2? hee fol] capo 5 
ine fia Bet i in aus ipniiad 
iil 


oa il i : 
ae LTS IT Hii | ep 
Het i bial ay ul He Per ae 


Ha fae iaietirziy Gh Say 


asi 


ieee aia Ge eae 


ziti 


yaa : i itty li tie te aul ile ital 
‘ies Sulli tis ante ip “alll rail fe) i 








a: 


CYCLOPADIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 


Spirit: A-second and a third he took, - - 
see maya Renny A Tor of ite strengts complained, al 
; ‘separate publications. | “Shake out the reefs! haul aft fore sheet! 
of Mr, Brownson is a remarkably feli~ “Tamnotthemantofiag, 
eee ane hae. _™ With o breeze like this, in the * Two Polleys'—— 
Lr ton oar So give her every mg. i - 
‘the subject, at the same  Aghast poor Isaac heard the call, 
eens it_was well phn - 
the | ear. When em- For he knew fall well ‘was one 
“hiding ssa al ‘Who would not be, 
energy of the orator, “Tanne, below, 
iesteiont As screliaa Sx the space a Aniien eet 
still preserves its "Til call you when off Portland Light, 
ure curious the reconcilin- ; = 
PeRatrak Dieetiee® odoricinn to |, Cane pe vet wonena Sati 
ive voioe of the Church., ‘And iy woul the words scape, 
steady tis," he replied. 


‘now a resident of Port- And what of her, the “Two Polleys?” 


a eS ead 

productions are two five her ganwales the hissing surge, 
t, or the Laat of the her deck was washed with the spray. 

Ab ag te She nearod the rocks, and the waves ran high, 


tg mmc tof | panel eal al hi 
was 
7 Peer a Brot lds head wad og tbe floor, 





The sun shone out on Richmond's Islo— 
But what is that on the strand? 
‘me Wack oF THE TWO POLLIES. Abroken mast and a tattered sail, 
A Ballad. Half buried in the sand. 
"Twas o starless night, with drifting clouds, And there were heaps of old dun fish, 
And heaved the seas ; ‘The fruits of many a haul, 
‘Yet a pi craft was under sail, But nothing was seen of the old Skipper, 
Her name was the “ Two Polleys. Nor of oue-eyed Isaac Small. 
Anche wan ee 26 Moca Desert, ‘Three days had gone when » “homeward bound” 
what might her cargo as ent ¢ 
She was for a long time on the Banks, = ssl Biahsvetis tale bene Mor. Nor! W 


And while there was very lucky, 


And for that her course she lay. ~ 
But darker and darker grew the night, 


‘Yet senreely three knota did she make, 
And loud did oeean roar; For it was a cat'e-paw breeze ; 


So they two reefs in tho mninsail tool, And the crew hung round her bows, 
one reef in the fore, Watching the porpoi 
‘The Skipper Bond was at the helm, But there leans one on the quarter rail, 
Me Lace him now— And a sudden sight he sees 
The tobacco juice on his mouth and ehin, Then floating past—'tis a smack’s pink stern, 
And the salt spray on his brow. And on it—the “Two Polleys’ 
Pieonetiie 
Seca ba ‘df 7 ALBERT G. GREENE, 
enaceane ‘Taz author of the popular ballad of “Old Grimes" 
¥ a ‘8 poet of cultivation, and an ardent of 
eon e as pee Loot, the historical literature of Rhode , is 8 na- 
But He batted hs fournanght higher ep veibe Uses sistas wire ie sees ere eee 
And, sald he, “Tis getting cold. res piney, ae Ht Ee) 
“ Odds bloods! I must the main brace splice, has for a number of filled the offices of 
“So, Isaac, let Clerk of the Municipal of the city of Pro- 
“And as the wind’s a sporter, mind and Clerk of the Common Conneil. 
ae aleaiee i Mr, At ingities, neste havea ee 
Skipper raised it to collected, and a them, of which 
payee ocr Fepatalion has got atreadl ara silly comariert pad 


_ ALBERT G, GREENE 337 
these is a quaint comic poem, entitled hange their: their principles, — 
‘Tha Militia Muster’ 2 remarkable of Aris tiny edt red 
the Yankee dialect, and of the of New ‘Whilst thou hast ne'er, likethem, been known 
. One of the longest of Mr. Greene's Bib charities una anee 
a Uallad entitled Canonchet is Gineeinee ee 
published in Updike's History of the ‘arraghan- > , 
Mr. Greene has been a enrious collector of biden fee) condemn, 
povery, of which be las s large, H- eee by aay ai Som hearas, 
brary; and it is understood, contemplates a publi- Peet ad by ron themty— 
cation on the subject. Wile they dover Know Tt 
‘To TUE WEATITERCOCK ON Oth STEELE ‘Tho dusty Re 
‘The dawn has broke, the morn is up, dark and cheerless night 
‘Another dey begun “itee val ht kept iy = 
And there thy poised and gilded spear And now in glor ky trom 
Is flashing in the ‘The mornii Hehe hae 
Upon that and tower And unto 's true wateher, thus, 
thon thy watch hast kept, When his dark hours have 
A.true and faithfal sent Will come PLR Eo te a 
all around thee slept, ‘To cheer his path at 8 
For upon thee there has poured of 
}¢ suramer's erp A Still may I think of yi 
Lees asegh tha langidacks etarlam GY, And may the lesson thou dost toach 
e winter storms have beat; Be never lost on me;— 
And yet thy duty has been done, But still, ia sun-shine or in storm, 
Sates er task is mine, 
eee Heed Pa tors May I be faithful to my trust 
Whichever way it came, TRothah kask bean ahaa 


No auittiog est in wrath has swept 
Along distant heaven, 

But thou hast watched its onward course 
And instant warning given ; 

And when mid-sommer’s sultry beams 
Oppress all living 

Thon dost foretell each breeze that comes 
With health upon its wings, 

How aft I've seen, at early dawn, 
Or twilight’s quiet hour, 


And catch its earliest light, 
And offer ye the morn's salute, 
Or bid ye both—good night. 


And when, around thee or above, 
me RS celle circling flight 
ma seern'st to wal e 
Of each free, happy bird, 
‘Till after twittering round thy head 
eae etree dest sc 
whole delight company 
Have settled on thy back. 
‘Then, if ince amidst their mirth, 
A breeze has sprang, 
And prompt to mark its first a 
arn Cota 
T've it Lalmost heard thee say, 
As far aloft they flew— 
* Now all away! ends our play, 
For I have work to dof” 


Men slander thee, my honest friend, 
And call thee in their prida, 

An emblem of their 
Thou sven Abbful gpida. 

Each weak, unstable human mind 
A “ weathercock” they call; 

And thus, PERRY, 
Abose theo, one and all. 

‘They have no right to make thy name 
pe es 

Vor, 1.—22 





‘THE BARON'S Last BANQUET. 
O'er a low couch the setting sun had thrown its 


ray, 
Where in his last strong agony » dying warrior lay, 


been bent * 

By wasting pain, till time and toil its iron strength 
had spent, 

pore around me here, and say my days of 


fe are o'er, 
‘That I ehall mount my noble steed and lead my band 
no more ; 
"Thay opie, Wed aes are Weed Oe ae 


Their own liege lord and master born,—that I, ha! 
hal! must die. « 


| And what is death? I've dared him oft before the 


Paynim spear,— 

Think ye hers ectere a ay Cee ee ee ee 
me here 

I've met him, faced him, scorned him, when the fight 
was ragi 

ITl tey his might TTI brave his power; defy, and 
fear him not. 

Ho! sound the toosin from my tower, and fire the 
eulyerin— 

Bid See Se Eee eee every vat 

in, 
Up with my banner on the wall,—the banquet board 


Prepare; 
Throw wide the portal of hall, and bring mm 
armor there tt ‘ 


An hundred hands were busy then—the banquet 
forth was spread— ; 

seey oT heavy oaken floor with many = mar- 

babe LS dark tracery along the vaulted 


c , ee the 
le ee ree 





U ‘ing being — 


¢ was pleasure, 


Aud lustres, never dimmed by teara, 


Were not misnamed 


from lustrous years, 


No!—happy love, too seldom known, 
May make it for a while our own. 


And he was gl aa the bee,t 

Which always in flowers, 

Might this endure f—her husband came 
At an untimely 

But ere his tongue pronounced her shame, 
Slain suddenly, he 

"Twas whi by whose hand he fell, 
And Rodolph’s loves were gone, 


The lady 8 convent-cell, 
And lived in penitence alone; 
Thrice blest, she the waves among 


A caren mh imp ray 
shapings 





fae and Ant 





Witeseeaaae ta 
Of thoug und the fr 


paladin ofa ager 


A second part describes the visions of Rodolph’s 
distempered mind, In it occurs this fine passage 


mi 
‘on the prophetic sense of fear, 





Or watery domous, in strow ight 
B haute waves of eet be NG, 


Their presence, not their ple C 
et which, ike fleting inseat-mothers 
recording life to 
‘And forthwith lowe thelr own.” 
The remaining poems were brief, consisting of a 
cal sketch, The Indian's Bride; n Re 
an Occasional 


1828. An appreciative bi hical notice of 
him a the year iously, from the pen 
of the late William Leggett, in the “Old Mirror,” 
which speaks warmly of his shorter poems as 
“rich in beauties of a peculiar nature, and not 
surpassed by peace eae of a similar character 
Laguett opin elcrired "Ws partoacy 
le 
the power of the four lines beginning 


* Vide Seotonius 


iss 











BELA BATES EDWARDS 


Yor them, and by thy al af nia-ande 


A PUOTUEE-sONG. 
How may this little tablet feign the features of a 
Whieh with loveliness its proper share 
of space; 
Or buman hands on ivory enable us us to see 
‘The charms that all must wonder at, thou work of 
gods, in thee ! 
methinks, that sunny smile familiar stories 
And [ should know those placid eyes, two shaded 
Nor can my zoul the limner’s art attesting with o 
the blood that decked thy check, as 
Forget the aky. ny OB TORy 
Sa tne ee 
lent than fai 
A sft ep oF pty and pre ae mowatan 
But here are eommon, earthly hues,'to such an 


‘That Hopes save thine, ean seem so like the beauti- 
ful of thought. 
thy like, fal mimi 
Stow Le; roan ophpelahyer me 
Percents ois 
feclings shor 
ate 
The fees ease to chase their shifting 
EE ailitenaactanianin tea mossarorgnee rion crew 
Bases. careless, sullen peace, my double-fronted 
Like Janus when his gates were shut, looks forward 
and behind. 





long 
imitener tatters | bee 


Saaga ee Beate tne Wialy irs ut ‘sky 
Ff tonched, will the music yet, it first received 
of thee. my so 
BONG, 


T need not name ates name, 
now I drink to thee, my dear, 
sounds shape anagic word, 


iat 
3 : a 


= 


ee 


a4 
qeoren he 
Ey 80 Pe cram ths ie 
Saseeeseekniiici destinies Ae 
And something more than melody dwells ever in, 
The tage her hart aro they, ndtv herp 
‘as One may ve the Durthened bee forth issue from 





And ii pecdons, ‘chatipiig "Gf 60° Al’ heryché 
‘The ftage of themselves by tarns;—the 1d6l oftpast 
i ht io one glance will trace a picture 
And of her voice in echoing hearts » sound must 
Bick. mmeceny sus ha stake obi icraty Sacer 
when din nigh my lt igh will ot ei 
Poe en Se 


Collage, "He had previcesly, tn 1635, ware tha 

le a 1825, 

Andover Theol nary, where he cons 

tinued his stadies and was licensed as a 

in 1830, with many fine qualities in the 

Elly saoed, he lesbed toe Sedinary ef 
essen! 

and manner for 


voice that 
energies of his life were to be devoted to the cause 
of instruction through the press and the 


oc nit lant Me Edwards waa this view 
‘his genealogy, 


= 





ents tbe 





rd 
au 
ne 
is 
er 
2 
E 
i 


: 
zs 
i 
Hi 


i 
i 
: 
! 


ut 
dG 
in 
Bilge 
i 
ee 


Professorship of 
dated trom 1837. In 1848, on 
he was elected 


i 
f 


an 
away from all these suenes new helps for his own 
science, 6 had aewalihed a: Bic: 

of Melancthon, for the sak 


? 
I 
i 
i 
: 
a 


ite 
ia 


iu 
i 
= 
! 
: 
t 
44 


i 
: 











Arve,” and at the 
Bist mene 
monument 
where he i 
Suis aad wit the opt at 
ers, and wi a 
losopher canses of the 
inde by the V taste- 
on wor! ‘Salvator Cor- 


moonlight, and amid the statues of the Vatican by 

torchlight, and on the roof of the St, John Lateran 

at sunset, “ ” he says, “I beheld 

Pan oe Ce oe ree 
walked ‘an Way, exclaiming: 

identical old renin now existing in 


snfferin, ees. 
doubt Paul trayelled, when he went bound 
Rome.” He wrote «sketches of all these seenes ; 

in such a style ns proves his intention to 

own mind with the remembrance of them, to adorn 


. 


ing of these lines, and enll back their lost eharne! 
ere is that more than Promethean fire that cau 
their light relumet 


The remai: years of Edwards’s life were 


ning 
| t in the duties of his Profe-sorshi Sites, 
ih ahioh he both Greek and Hebrew. To 


uy 
fale 
if 
PTE 
a] i 
A 


and Professor Felton 
Institution, [Athe ie 
Ewaya on Ancient Literature 


Art, with the and 3 

Eminent Philologists: Srehaee Btomant oo 
tions of this and work were 
the Essays on the “ of Greek Literature” 
and of “ Classical Antiquity,” and the on 
“the School of Philology in Holland.” 


* Published by Gould, Kendall, & Lincoln. 1643, 


; 
aie 





| 


In 18t4 associated with entitled! Leis at Sea,* The 
‘Mr. Samuel H. Taylor in raen ee eo show a eet oy Maze, 
Grammar of Dr, Kuhner, and in 1860 re- T tdlity my varcthiatios ned oo tnaoniey 
ed ue for a second edition. of el | this they exhibit no peculiar 
: ing these toils and duties the merit, “of originality or scholarship. A sin- 
health of the’ stadent was broken and | gle specimen will indicuta their quality. F 
feeble. Symptoms of a pulmonary complaint had : ° Ss 
, ield ie hed ede imposed bing Lnprobe quid. SS eaumsrons 
now to , upon asnor, quill non. sor : 
wed visit Tlotide for hie health; ood the fl ‘The tear which thon upbraidest me 
to The | € 
long Pasa ‘his return to the north, sailed Thy false! taht to Row 
say passing a year among the The a erp 
scholirs and amidst the classic associations of an ae ee 
id and the continent, wed us hate, y bs 3 
‘attention upon the and libraries, In Although Toa teat aides 
he visited the Red Cross Library in Town Eovetiueyey 
London, for by the Rev. Dr. Go peak ah 5 
an English Minister, vs apples foal 
who lived froin’ 1644 to 1716. It isa collection Might 2! a fren Hi 
of twenty thousand volomes, ebictly theological, ‘3b suena ficiand By th A 
The sight of this led Professor Edwards to pro- the ¥oun Aer 
pose a similar Puritan Ii to the Congrega- ne avert love is true; 
fa ee |. eeeeruneia 
ey may jer too, 
returned to Andover in May, 1847, resumed ; 
hia. stadies, 0d while “yielding inch by inch a rym es 
to his insidious disease, with customary fore- Neer feel the throbbing anguish 
thonght, in accnmolating new materials Tam doomed to know! 
for new commentaries.” Te pr tions ‘The eye that once was beaming 
of Habakkuk, Job, the Psalms, and First A tale of love for thee, 
to the Corinthians, and was in Is now with sorrow streaming, 
er Jabors. In the antuinn of 1851 again For thou art false to me. 


visited the South fatally stricken, took up his 
residence in Athens, Georgia, and died at that 
April 20, 1852, in the forty-ninth year of 


Pie hisadekits talons is Lie cacy whe ald 
the following year sg a py in Boston, 
of two volumes, The IVs noe ors wae a 2 

with @ Monoir by Ludwards A. Park. 
selection contains sermons preached at An- 


WILLIAM LEGGETT. 
Wriutas Lecozrt, an able and soy tgs i 
tical writer, was born in the city of New Tak te 
the summer of 1802. He entered the Cig 
Georgetown, in the district of Columbia, where 
took Ces eres rank, butin consequence 
his fat failure in business, was withdrawn 


tion of his course, and in 1819 
in their settle- 
Illinois 


H rH 
ef 


AL 


literary career. 
1922 he entered the navy, having obtained 
Id of malo its resigned 
ion in 


FFE 


after a volume of 
intervals doring his naval ca- 


i 
f 





He also wrote in the Atlantic Souranir, one of 
the earliest of the American annuals, a prose tale, 





The Rifle, in which he portrayed with spirit the 
plese os facia eb len This 
wf Habeas kerbs Pm 
“Treen Seg oe er a pri: 
A Book'sa book, although thore's ein 
sole" Zeck! Goonge © Morgan, and X, Hit and. White 

















Ee ey 
+E . ty mee a ie sty 
ul He uae tial 
ean ede antennae 

ae j ad He lta ili Fe lig 
ee a I A ee 
; NG He if Hi iy. HEE Hie tit ! Ly eae nu il Bit GHEE Hi 
a ate iui i see ee ac 
i a te Hl i igh aul ual bial 8 pall XZ 
Ble CH a 
Wu Ee eee 
i uh in ae Hattie A 7 ile HF fiat BIH 

fa ied file We ie ae H il ease 4 


HHL eee HT ne tile ee 








Hi 
| TH tee Hay Fi 
if Ee 
gla lie dean yaa ieee ieee hei 
: tilt Hae mt fn eh ae ayy : mete 
Se Tne eM sh ea ea 
jh i ies Hite i Hae iil Hine 4 i ie He fy Hi i lial i 
#33 EH fae = BH u 
See ale ch ain 
Ba urna ea oat A an 
na il Lace alas Wp 
Bee ey ae al ee 
FE ea 
EF HH His ul HT ‘openly 





: 


‘aky-sail pole itself 


ie an 
Sieammerer enter 


& . 


if 
| 
i 
F 
ni 
at 


destruction, An attempt to 
tha ad 2 ould be alae certain dentng 
eodplated tothe deck « ecole aad shapes 

a 
throagh my mind as my 

saw the tenth of Jakes exclaication, 
Ceigeney To hall hin, and mot hirdame 
ger, would be bat to insure his ruin. Indeed, I fan- 
pees ey Seeresh berg ean ‘the immi- 
nence of his peril; and I that L could 
‘see his limbs begin to quiver, and his cheek tarn 
Every moment I expected to see the 
oe T could not bear to look at 
aud yet not withdraw my gaze. A film 
a trem- 
IB GSN waver ike ih heated ale afclid a forcase; 
the mast sppeared to totter, and the ship to pass 
from under my feet. I myself had the sensations of 
one about to fall from a great height, and making a 
OTs peer in ireerieetoibetlertd 
who ho is shoved from @ precipice, I stag- 












intothenir, Asound, between a shriek an wr 





burst from many: ‘The father spoke 
not—indeed he did not seem to breathe, For a mo- 
ment of intense ya pin might have been heard 
on deck. rs that of @ cannon 
ie body nded to eat pate 
waves: ver it, lows, among 
them several d the 

short, of b eusned. It 
rose—he was t his arn foen to move! 

he strack ont towards the nd despite 
discipline of a I d huzzns, an out- 
bant of od ple joy from the 
hearts of our f fiy men, nan 
moment the ol i ‘unmoved. 
eyes, now sought 
his face, saw that it was ashy pale He attempted 
May be seonstte gaan Ser Sctsth and. Eee 

ry 16 seer , an 

banding Hf Serkan crack as tint bedera bal ge 
ed his object, he forward, and 
have fallen ou the deck, had be not been 
cabin, where surgeon attended him, w! ale 
most skill was required to restore his mind. to, its 
equabiitey and selkecsrases, in ghish bp les 

happil As soon as he recov 


ly sucoseded. 
from the dreadful shock, he sent for Bob, aud had « 


stum: the third, we weigh- 
eS cali and caused Soc Glan 


i hia in 1802, Ho 
Sari in Iie ae ‘ork, and formed an 
i with the late Samuel Woodworth, 
the publication of the 


Fate 


F 
i 
Lg 


present editor 
Fuller, soon became 


which was conduc 


z 


the three 





GeV C7. 


At the close of 1845, Mr. Morris commenced 
alone a new wee! 











in 


a 
& 


fe 
ih 


it 
i 
\ 
E 
. 


i 


uf 
i 
i 
i 


the love ballad, th ia an the 

presenting ve eo 

expression of patriotism, of friendship, ani ting: 
Dotunlonal Sopher 


Tous 





‘Undorolift. 


in 1853, accompanied by engravings from designs 
Pym Woir, wh han alo ius a - 

6 poem, -poor-will, in an earlier 
exon, rina from He 
iets of National joint 
position with Mr, Willis of the Pross and y 
of and A with a volume of 
The Little and his r 
in 1838, illustrated by the comic designer 











F Hae rr 3 a ques Eppebes pba 
al i aut pH Ee La i an 1 nT EN ai; 
hately i Hi iil Gis HE lig rapa AieHe Hae i 
Sein | a pteries TULLE Hau | fe 
ui] eH ial ee il 1s nig i 
ae (aeReEN inadequate 
g i273 rit # % abies: al + 2 Hi 4: ate 
ates A eu eae aaah 
; enna set Hasna dial 
. J BRS SS & “rade |4 
: PE ts Renee a ed FE Serie Hi|d 
“dildity hh Sa al 
Pane ee Wiis Helngita edly Run |p 
AUD derail be ele 
HEH REE Way Pau aie ft opie an ABH : 
BME Eee null late ale eater i 
 lnle i RUMEN 






where he was ordained in No- 
vember, 1829, In June,1838, ho was called as Pas- 
to the First Church of Elizabeth- 


frequently solicited to remove to New Yor 
retagl Oy Boston, Cincinnati, 5: 
jatehez, and to two theological professor- 


Ashbel then 
College. Other he Seecal by Ktabetniorn he 
anda few articles for the 
and logical Journal, then edited by 
eae in 154 Pees cual cola 
sermons. 8 pul a Ine, 
Notes Historical aad Biographical, concorning 
Elizabethtown. 

In 1847, appeared the first series of Controver- 
nom de plume which soon 
In 1848, a seoond and third series of these Letters 
arpa They have been translated into seve- 


Yin 1851, he a pamphlet, The Dectine 





a 


IK 


3 
ie 
if 
fie 


Po 
i 
4 
of 


E 
g 
z 
F 
: 


i 
= 

¥ 
fs 


ite 
Li i 
Eeizé 
cihie 

ii 
Hue 
Gig 


? 
£ 
& 
: 
SEs 
iis 


ifs 
ul 
ua 
He 
i 
aa 


26 
: 
38 
i 
ty 
u 
ie 


t 
i 
i 


| 
a 
F 
ie 
ie 
i 


43 
4 
ii 
4 
E 
g z 
: 
pth 


zE 
fi 
ad 
ie 
ue 
eT 
Hy 
ALB 


























native of the of who came to 

Seecceccmaeseeeae 

: man a 

books, and passed his evenings aloud | 

family, a trait which his son cont There ; 1 of the ¥ 

1 anecdotes of the early years of the latter | Becglychase alee 1837 he was ordered 


Sz ee Eas 
Hie 
ae 
ruler 

Eee 7 
aE Ui 
: shee 
é He 
e:eh e 


vessel himself in his of that ot itssurrender, and wasan 
Gein ates boaters ot | rot coniy atte Eebtedl ores ot alias 
pec pldraemaringiiiat len tet ye 


f 
oF 
te 
EF 
i 
g 
Hi 
HL 
22 
; 
5 
= 
z 


ae 

second attack of yellow fover led to his | 
pr of 1825, Lia 
jatment to a licutenaney, he vi- 
leave of absence, for the benefit 
He spent a year in France, mostly 
then commenced the tour in Spain, 
incidents of which he subsequently gave to 

in his publication, the Year in Spain, 
appeared in Boston in 1829 anil about 
same time in London, Washington Irvi 

at the time of Stidell’s visit, 

life of Columbus, and the two 
their time in intimacy. It is to 
Irving alludes in a note to his work 


Pane 
ie 
rt 
: 


B ane 
a 


ay 
fee 
i 
F 
g 
F 


4 
4 
s 
t 
& 
: 
z 
4 
f 


P tly 
various parts of this history by nantical 
tion trom the same intel a8 ir esnres” 
ent in Spain was received with great favor, 
tool 


at 





and its rank in England and America amon; 

the first productions of its class. It was ariewel 

in the ' peu Eaee, and other 
ions in London, with many 


lected in farniliar intercourse with the people; so | «-Fee,. tcc Pte ong 


Ww: Irving then in England, writi . 
en “Tt i quite the fsa bok Whilst in Boston, previously to the sailing of 
oe UE in the highest terms in — the Ty rp high ad cal eth 

the highest Tf the Lientenant were in to co te « life of Paul Jones to the of 
London at: present he would be quite a lion.” It American Bi iy. He anticipated writing 
had the honor of « translation into the Swedish — this at sea, but his duties prevented. He com- 
Janyraage. menced it on his return, and it was published in 

Bet 1830-31-32, Mr. Slidell was on Boston in 1841. 
daty in Mes iartenes, Wis Urtndywine, He had a love of country life, not unusual 





E 
g 
i 
I 


oa the (he 
4 two years’ course married, in 183: daughter of the late Morris 
of travel! th Geoee bette ms Roblin of Nev York at a farm on the Hud- 


time in a short. visit to and ‘mill between Sing and Tarrytown, 
to his tour jn England fre! Trelis gterennts his time when not oc- 
war indueed by the threatened conflict be- | cupied in his profession, to which, 





g aa a 3 24377 oar 
aH Hina pe uti Hy 


ig 

i re ay F 
i Ha Hed ue pelea Le nih ate 
1 At ie a nuts i 4 ee ity te Hie ty fi 
i 
EL 





Heaea AE EEE Bu He 
thy Nee a Hau Lee mie rae ied fie 


ih 
CATER penne a fl 





E ERY me iit repay se a ell HiT ab us 
ff it Heal ane Tiny ! AGE | lee iit ea 
; au] Ae 7 hui apis al u agl ia! Z that Ae 
FT PeeetReee RLEEERITRTeUT es otert ma eT Ler Spee 

a ite Hla aye: rylees ESNet Bea EH 
rae Ht z teak BE Hae ee Ae 
ae ee eR Ua 

i nae i eet Hn dani qinlié ath 





He Hue th i al 











es on Che Times, and similar Tectual analysis of passions and 
which he had delivered. The duties of which the results are : 
literature were too restricted and. for his orp oeees 
and his pov spat by in practice, which in the conduct of 
a fg shhh eg ae jejeny beet thy weghootine ontinase Ti His” 
x e 4 
Pading soiceelal: yp tad Maton Cee tteally anes foe 
for the pnblic, is a peculiar species of ote mcrae helo 
lecture, in which he combines the ease and fa- | fined in his lectures it arrests 
miliar turn of the essay with the philosophical | the pure tone of the orator, and 
frequently, especially in his latter 
lieved by turns of practical sngaci 
New England humor. It isa 
there is a considerable infusion 
pinta be ing to Ligier reerigh 
tions; its mn quality is. dazzling 
Meta ta oe 
striking objects. Tn poems, apart from 
Riaie dtacesseg: eivibeare ti bare and 


the public affairs of th 3 in the 
of the sla rider ag Meas hg Vig ng: 
li several orations, in to that in- 


it 
a He died May 9, Fearn which 
¢ delivered on Socrates is spoken of with admi- 
in 





ee 
‘The collections of his Zxaaye and Lectures com- e oat ig laurels on thy pallid brow, 
meneed with the publication in 1841 of n first | O”er thy Sight igure floating lightly dewn, 
series, followed by a second in 1844. His volume Onahy curled lip the classic lines, that tanght 
Pooms was iesned in 1847, In 1848 he tra- | jrow ‘nice the mind that sculptured them with 


thought, 
in London on Zhe Mind and Manners of the | And triumph glistening in the clear bloe 
‘eenth Century, Pl ae fos bright ts ite itcak we bictedien 


ected iced heiccereey, ‘tie nic oe re 
H Ti le 8 i . i t 
om the Superlative in Manners and Literw-| [lave tevuet of the taal 
ture, and delivered lectures in other parts of pep aetet a. 
Ensland, in which country his writings have Fall like sweet strains, or pensive smiles; 
heen received with great favor. Yet not for all his faith ean see 
et ees ae Se raeee pia hous “+ Would I that cowled churchman be, 
9! seat neo Why should tho vest on him all 
sited the chief northern cities and literary inetl- | adh W'sould not on me endorel 
Power, Wealth, the Conduet of Life, and other Not from a vain or shallow thought 
topics, which, without obtruding his early meta- His awful Jove young Phidias brought ; 
physies, tend more and tnore tothe illustration of Never from see hs fell 
the practical advantages of life. ‘The thi 3 
Tn 1850 his volume Represontative ae Rene ee 
Men: ii portraits of Plato, Swedenborg, tal eal Ber cmpane 
Mont Soh ap ere His Tiles hha releancts tonsan ania 
notices of Fuller sn independent Tip trots the bursing ores Liehdaraad 
portion of her M pup cena in.188 Wika ccptiies. of lope sad Ona 
The characteristics are, in the sub- ‘The hand that rounded Peter's dome, 


if 
E 


matter of his discourses, a reliance on indi- And groined the aisles of Christian Rome, 
from God he | not free; 





HE att SH THIE iin Halunatla 





joi ig feelin ale HF qudaiie 
Calis a Gata ey 

i? Pant | ah ily ng H gi stalt 3 wy ESaegeity An 
Tihs] head nl, “Bina ig Bales 

sé Es . i 2 eeirs sae niu Pillay oe ig aif REE re] if uh 
ij (heel 2 Hilt dp uEe pte Venn! Hite 33 uae 
Ee ul hal Ha Wie wiehhiucne Genbeuaid 
# ein eta felis: Ae C ent *hilianis Hind Hl 
: zie STURT itr een re eer 
i! sti Heuiaee bainal uaa - REE er He i 
ieelatati ual Sobral tir siti d lair saae 
a Hi a ee Ce ee nn i 
ia ane eee GE Ua 
Habeas Besar ganiia via aie 
| Halla hanninauiig itl ah nb Hl dati i 





i 
+ 
i 
li 


3 s I 
fie 
ite H 
TAGHE 
Hote 
fib! 
tphiiiies 


iH 
z 
F 
: 
: 
: 
z 


i 
F 
i 
= 
: 


‘BE 
i 
fi 
i 


rhe 
ees 
: 
£ 
z 


reputations of Europe, overstate 
Svar eat ogg ee llega pont 
about what I certainly know,—my house and barns; 
By fabes, my wife, and. faa my old Jean 

pate; knives and forks; what meats I eat, 
and what driiks 1 prefer; and a hundred straws just 
as ridiculous,—than I write, with a fine crow- 
quill, a fine romance. 1 like gray days, and autumn 
and winter weather, Tam gray aad antomoal my- 
elf, and think an undress, and old ehoes that do not 
pinch my feet, and old friends who do not constrain 
me, and plain topics where I do not need to strain 
myself aud pump my brains, —— suitable, Our 

Taen 


» One 


i 
i 


Hlosopher, instead of . the best I can, this 
Su thee SS 
r action, and can ee 

cr lore rb ‘s ~ Hf there be anything 


fErcleal in such « life the 
i nature's door. 
Essays, 


me is not mine: let at 


Stesdannacat thooghtss To ty nerer dall never 


shower of bullets, it is Cambridge men whocorreet 
themeclyes, and bey iditincet-avery: bait on 
and, moreover, pun, and ein bormbhseat 








not to much 
and use of 1 


to evade it, the common custom 
will have it 80. Most of 


and given the right and expression 
Nt mind onthe conse of so 


of his journey homeward at Nfonnt Airy with 

tory 

commented on 
it Patriot.* 


rist, the brother of our author, Charles 
ania fayodia Saale Oe Eee 





his danghter, to escape the of the 
French em . Napoleonism is not one of his 
deseendant’s traits. Few writers have hit that 
assumption of power with more se' than oor 
Rae Seay cea ical 2 
birth of Calvert thus ascends in an honer- 
able lineage in and European 
*In Correspondence of there 
to Beni 
letter Rape bens HE 


hie was for several years the editor of the ti- 
more at that time a neutral paper. 
blished in 1832 a yo- 


introduction giving an analysis of 

the Th ee the first book 
in America on the subject. The same 

i belongs to his notice of the water eure, 
which he announced to his countrymen in a let- 


from on the Rhine, August, 1843, 
2 oebised in the Baltimore American. 


had 
E 


et 
4 
E 
: 
2 
E 
i 


an original tragedy, in 1840; Arnold and 
a dramatic fragment; and two cantos of 
a poem in the Don Jnan stanza, with a 
earnestness, in thesame year, In 1845 he 
a translation in New York of a portion 
Schiller oes ane jin 
from a tour abroad, a first 
Thoughts ia Burope, in which 
Hydropathy, the system of Fourivr, and other fa- 
vorite topics, were ably discussed ; followed by a 
With « cont of foreign travel in 1850, th 
an le travel in 1850, the 

of which is chronicled in the last men- 

ion, Mr. Calvert has been since 
Newport, Rhode Island, wher, 


ih 
t 
t 


i 
u 


oration on the occasion—a ‘ic historical: 

of the battle. Mr. Calvert also been a con- 

tributor to the New York the North 
the Veo York and other 











this desp'rate 
A flaw, or fault in execution. 

fe ae 

uy a8 ie 

With him in that disastrous ent 

Ww ; and there I 


‘The vet'ran's skill contend for mastery 

With youthfal ‘in his wondrous doeds, 
Well might the bloody Indian warrior pause, 
Amid his massncre confounded, and 

His baffled rifle’s aim, till then unerring, 

Turn from “that tall young man,” ond deem in 


For years did his majestic form hold place 
Upon my mind, bres shobege vag eto 
In th’ image of a strovg armed until 


One moment th’ opposi 
‘The rattling volley hid the 

Another—and the sudden eloud, illed, 
Displayed, midway between the savers lines, 
His drawn gleaming high, rf 


it bore: 


He stood unharmed. Like 
Rushed to his side tenant 
And arms with two-fold strength been braced, we 


Hut Fee He 


We 


















ce Hi i fl co 

Hal Li a 

ui Da a HE yl if wah i 
ee 

ie ee i oe 
lbh ia aati fe Hu Hee tall HE # 











8 SHeHE id a Htitat PREG LEt ETCH ae 
AEE ae ea ea EE 
Bini tlae at HF ett eh ila 
iy in ref it a hie ee : 
Bite 4 ausked 43 PAU EH 3: a2520 yess 
Taue lt it ih cata e urine ete 
aiid SHAME TaRARUnE ie rel 
nee AGH TAT 
#3 7 235 va saaske gigats 
rT peal its Hy auteins aa ieoe 
weal: ue at ae Hadas Gh i Banal 
a cee aie ati ea al 
He al flee ball 
ae sil HF fi aut tiie HE lee ran a ey 
We Ft ve i mn deuliie Ena 








iba ne int 
‘ 3 sa g88 c 
a Hn i i Hale Hf ali a SHEA pled 
ite ee ie eictails dt 4 a 3 Hy Au ae 
ua Hes sun SS ae vie 
i He ei eerd fs are e5523203 sy Wikia oat ; 
ee en Faire ate isl anil 
er eet Pere ake ge grgeiiey 
nani ils Cn \) SHERHSRy 
HGa RUB MInNE RIN =e 
at aE i SE Hur aeneiten eda | 
aie Teen Ga 
eel FORT RH Uiee re oRE rT HA 
ile Hi Heute ili 1 tl 
bid falls Heunbed feria 
HHS ie ay BAL ee 
Ae ita a aga HGHRBHAAL Ha 











iy i 
Y woudl tag Teal ah. a fe 
de aid Gap tie witli Balls, tt 
| te BES2225 52352 fr gies? it a ae # 3. Wied: 3 i. : 
Hy ua i rani tar ua ae ne 
d Sizs= 2 P35 eget 33; 23s é 3 
| lia pea lta ee ui eu 
ga etre THe ll by Hie Seti ug 
waie *27ibask: H PRES Unerue ial SEEPS arial it ie 
i Hits Pee RA Hig ATE Nae — aia 
Ueno Wee Ll 
nee Cues Baar 
tee ee aliine eLgR ig att Ltt 
RL Tae itn subs He it 
£25 g3%e8 E22 eas iL Ee tg $3 He afte 
aE eat ets pl deh 
i A hind BHT aii ae (habit | te 


pana ty of hie dont tosleop 





» The play still keeps 
the stage as a favorite among his personations. 








ide, 
The Broker of Bogota, the most finished of the 
Fien sb aeo nah wasnext produced, 


like its two Mr. Forrest, but has 
not obtai se populsrity of the 
Gladiator.* 


In 1887 the anthor's most 
of the Woods or the 





Pilgrim, ora 


In 1838 Dr. Bird published Peter a 
Rambler's ‘Recollections, a collection “magazine 
apers, including an account of the Mammoth 
Fare; of which Ierwas one of teressty 
and the first to describe with any degree 
minuteness, 

This work was followed in 1889 by The Ad- 
a novel of romantic 


of which he became one of the proprietors, 
died in that city of a brain feverin January, 1854, 
pes Died esos ieeweyn ere 

ie progress lopment story. 
Secon ions show hand 


rh e 
of Nick of the Woods for the theatre, in every 
part of the country, “ss 


‘THE BEECH-TRER 
‘There's a hill by the Schuylkill, the river of hearts, 


~ And a beech-tree that on ite —s 
Tn 0 nook that ia lovely pita Ba 
And twilight ereeps over thetide; 


= | 








Be SEE) 
aaebargisisd yieiai sib eyld bet k Saegea gee tijaiecs seasdgetee 
indie Gitnimnungien BATE eh 
fe ean a r Hadas 
I; ; eee 833 ii ie ze Hy : 13 a gis: Higiiilas t Hy Z 

ae Rieu eden | Hae Hf 

inset UH ip ible) wane iH 
UTIL Gent oP Gora 

fe d0d) , [RE BIBS Gia eee 

PRE HL! cubilia imi 
ii Gg! ie Hil (iy eg in ae abn hn 
THEA aaa Hae ee ued 
fa ae aida diets eau 

ely a Bd ae He Bau Higifid a pao ny i 
tl eae Bunda Uieuniu aad ays 
fee aT DAU aHeN GRE ReaT net 














. SUigeiieats V480i0l2 22jq 00 TEAGUE Ghezh .t Z 
ere ne ae UT Gg 
rf: 3 2 se satssts E 52 
atari ay TD nA 
: GUHinH beiniiiiig? we 17 8 
beatae Hey HA HAR ee at ig i 
Hume ieee iy td i 
Gunuderiapley eel Geieesiig i id 
SHHatUGatlicsin HoH HLATTN > Sh 
Tptdje2| (aes heegulay jieegyygicgiye pudigyt: 1sggupdayieivite ity #7 
jl eae i 
Qtfledaz tceecpidivess Sghetscegisqidipefaey eadtsisdiay silts ieeeg sity 
: Ex He lhe eee Viana HI lavalalinn Hels | 
dipleiurra ice Wie ientet ue NPE 
ae ee ieeera sat 
JH ieee Fred re ere ee eee ee LE 
HOH i adtlalai aie Cau ene 


JOHN K. MITCHELL 381 
‘They made confession of their open errors, are none to the Master . 
iy told Ged of their secret follies; Eine tiene eed frallt 
Afreshs tervice as trae vassals him, Our life is no “ dream” —we began it 
bonis : Wetaet wins sp tad Lined oot teisky 
oye of Thanksgiving oe cae ba eke i anakeatn ton , 
. nig in music, Where oad haw, we mia nb mii, 
The author is 6 resolute advocate of total absti- ‘Yet, as choice in the vineyard's permitted, 
eee erences oF aise: The labor is nover in vain, 
incidents missionary career, hazards And and ", unremitted, 
of @ silo’ Tifa ashoro as well as alloy the Joss At the harvest of grain— 
and sorrows of the fireside, and the nepiriing Tn where the brambles off sting ns, 
themes of ite a oan tr iaemrtl Se eal to ale See ence 
variously dwelt upon. verses are uniformly “ Taking care of the d will us 
smooth, wusical, and in excellent taste, ‘The nearest to Heaven and 
‘TEE sUXDAY souoOL.? JOHN K. MITCHELL, 
“ Takes care of the Children !"—there's many A rirvsiet. and a contributor 
'To sneer at a mission 80 small ; of onal literature to the Ameriean Medical 
pane Gee Is eniia Deming, Be ey ane journal, is also the author of a yo- 
Cheap erumbs of his that fall! lume, a Tale of the Far Panens Ae 
For the it wide di n%) blished by Carey and Hart in 1839. 
coping paste ng Gy matory, | giana,“ yar em Se 
was ; 
Seine | aadieinciseeeeseranens 
imi at Edi 
When Charity eth, her proof, s foyhmuerion, ihe studied medicine with Dr. Chap- 
ee and “minute, man at Philadelphia, In 1841, he was chosen 


To take of Idolatry measure, 
And vanquish for Jesus the world. 


SE atid pce! rt, 

prinees and em — 

Be we noblvener} at, e 
And prelates and baronets bleed ; 

We ask not, we wish not to 


With them; but our disciplined band 
onwards, and where the shots rattle 
Behold us! the Infantry stand! 


Shoes gery nod veychiy mans 
or! ct To! m 
Round in, wh was 4 to foster 
‘The children that troubled the street ;— 
agi? nobler, sublimer, and better 
2S office ee we see, 
patiently, letter by letter, 
Here teaches the at the knee, 
“Takes care of the Children! "—where growing 
In August are vintage and corn, 
0 gazes and thinks of the sowing 
Of sweet little April with scorn? 








ae i longest 
is 
poe in sonded,” says lata ene 
Neal, in a biographical notice in Graham's 
gazine,* ¥ convey 8 of useful 
e » by pro 


That Indecision marks its path with tears ; 
‘That want of candor darkens future ff 
Tost PEEP wD is virtne’s safest fiend, 
And that to shun the wrong is better than to mend. 


aay at siones a Rca but, 
whole, mai wi er, and calculated deeply 
to interest the inde 

A ie following spirited lyric was written in 


‘THE BRILLIANT NOR’ WHT, 

Let A boast of her soft spicy gale, 
And Persia her breeze from the rose-acented vale; 
Let orange-trees soatter in wildness their balm, 
Where sweet summer islanda lie fragrant and calm; 
Give me the cold blast of my country again, 
a nas mauetonniedl patent era plain, 

eomt ough scentless, ‘el pure, ™ breast, 
‘With vigor and health from the cloudless Nor’ West 
I languish where suns in the 


And gem-tudded waters on lem sa 
Where shrubs, blossomdaden bright birds and sweet 


trees 
With odors and music encumber the breezo; 





° ‘1845, where will be found an ennmerstion of Dr. 
aeltcbelfe and several . 
See Paes Lectures before the 











has summons 
ins; and 


pis 


oe 
seed Pee 

Ph td pt 
fon mcrchen Foss 


Roman 
‘to her de “4 : 


fi 
i 
nh 
Hl 






[ 
: 
L 
; 
i 


ie 
a 
= 
i 
= 
ete 
i 
3 


F 
: 
if 


ti 
1 
i 


oa 
a 
efeeiet 
i; iE 
345263: 
PEig=2 
ae a 

: eee 
zoe Ee 

a ete 

He 
Hae 
iG 
i 


if my 
AL, | 2 
‘bod: of her father, her gentle spirit passes from | Joy—joy and triumph now— 7 ; 
‘We quote the conclading scene of thedrama:— —Afiriam. Why not? If but one ray of light 


Padus foraari}) Oh al and bloody | ‘And tive with low, nore, uleot sep shall Truth 
- ‘f ‘Tread the dark carth, Ree ewe wieead 
‘That knows too whose hath done this! | Till Peace and Righteousness awake, and lead 
An aged Christian. jus suith the man of Ea nee fern gg rps 
My ‘Their nf yas ep ta Fupiiee Seal 
Tsond you him I Have ye kopt Buphas, ! such a ealm and suuy 
Your faith.with mei If so, there is naught more brow 
id Stand’st thou beside onr mu father's bier? 
Afiriam. ee pe thy han !—Aye, elasp thy bro- 
Ve fair and apostles { forth— 
Go sie Sethe the an Aa ory 
lying sister's on 
When ye ba the oll of Christian pencs 
On voce and wild—when ye have wou 


Whene'er ye kneel to bear uy 
Repentant sinners up to youl Beare 
ir 





‘Mid friends—mid Sopec-tn joy in erleken 
A ing near, shall fill 
y The let ai around sou with her prayer, 
mn Wait ye too lay ycur Ns 
The sing Hering And come to | forth 
‘The sunbeams poping harps— | truth wars with you, and shall 
Ritetstt attri | My father! aleepest thou tA; ee 
nota 8) earth, ——: a 
Whom Dome forth to sage sacaghic Genial Debacas deed Bon there-—ob; hetela deeaman e=2200 
a not, fade not yet |—or me too, now, 
earth grows dark beneath my dazzled eye! The silver beard heaves not upon thy breast, 
Paulws, Miriam! in merey sprewd not yet thy eee Ean meet, Comty Doe 
lee os Gis tha tal behopatecties! ‘| Whygentonmey | meen coname 
‘Spurn me iat opes on it was not 
Miriam. In which world do Tstand! A voice | Not this T reverenced ond loved!—- 





there was : My friends, 
and That uvuet have earth! | Raise ye the dirge; and th Thide 
— Pereomthl | Baus 736A tens: sal Gh LNs 


_— 


B84 


Boel cto 
Disturb my soul's communion with the blest | 
My Woe ace ooh wl 


prox, 
Shed not the wild and tear 
Upon our parted brother's bier; 
ith heart subdned and steadfast eye, 
Oh; rae enth thuaght to yeader sept 
Aching brow and throbbing breast 
In the dient shall rest; 
But the cli ng dust in vain 
‘Weaves around the soul its chain, 


Shean Bi ning yh 

fear the Poli g »pheres; 
Shall our wild and salfeh prayets 
Call thee buck to mortal cares? 
Sainted spirit! fare thee well! 
Pen cearat eapaaean fell 
Is the joy that even now 
Crowns our blessed martyr’s brow! 


Buphas. Paulus, arise! 

‘We must away, Thy father’s ‘poorer 
afte to us!. pe Apt 
Miriam,—speak to us!—she 

“aplae Methought I saw her i move! 


tent but the breeze that lifted those re locks! 
never will wave more. 
Tt cannot be! 
Let me but look upon her face !—Oh, God! 
Death sits in that glazed eye! 
First Christian, Aye, while we sung 
Her father’s dirge—aeross the young and fair 
Taw death's shudder pass. Nay, turn not pale, 
on the solemn tieua her spirit soare 


Most peacefully on hig! 
4 Chastened ye are 


falbee iss A sorrow to your holy 
your youthful inatorise 
ai end of innocence,—Away, 
Beneath far other skies, weep—if yo can— 
The a of those ye loved. 
Lift this fair dust-— 
brother hless, tearless grief for her 


th: i 
Pay ly mind is dark. 


Poulea, 
‘The faith which she bequeathed must lighten it, 
Come a aod I will learn.—Oh, Miriam! 

Can thy bright faith e'er comfort grief like mine? 


MARIA J. McINTOSH. 


Miss Molstosn, the author of a series of fictions, 

aera | by their truthfulness and happy 

sys, te the descendant of a Scottish family, 

came among the first settlers to Georgia. 

Her ancestors in Scotland were distinguished LY 
the pease ey ee pred dort as ie ee 

though an of her grandfather, jier- 

General William McIntosh, who led the To 

ree in the risi of 1715, ae # fifteen years’ 

prisonment in the Castle of Edinburgh, where 

jy ois she agra on “Inclosing, Fallow- 

ing, ani in Scotland.” With fortunes 

ey ain raed the adherence of his family 


to the Stu col Agee tet t. John 
More Nt Melntexh, with one hundred cece 
sailed from Inverness, in 1735, for the crab) 


Georgia, a on the banks of 
maha, nam ed the plase at which they settled New 





CYCLOP-EDIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 


made 
the Board of Trustees in against 
Seamer 


in his native state, and 
ution, political honors were 
often thrust upon him, his pen ea ee 
employed in defence of the mensnres of his 
He was admired for his soolel eel 
warm heart and conversational talents are still 
remembered, 
plished ng edi eeroe hoger tots 
feminine traits. Hijo: Melatoh 
bury, forty wiles sooth of mah, - Riss 
rf miles sou van on sea~ 
coast of Gee where our author was born. Ina 
reins this spot she thus records her 
pressions of its scenery. “ Sun was bean 
sity sited about five miles from the ocean, 
on a bold frith or arm of the sea, stretching 


| between St. Catherine's En the ana 


and the main land on the other, 

rently, the horns of a crescent, at the es 

whi ! the town stood. It was a spot, 

eaters with the short-leaved Bermuda grass, 
shaded with oak, cedar, locnst, and a flower- 

ing tree, the Pride of Tad India. sit wae then the 

summer resort of all the ri 

went thither for the sea eA With a es last 

twenty years it has lost its character for 

and is now a desolate ruin; yet the hearts 

those who grew up in its shades still cling to the 

memory of its loveliness; a recollection which 





exists as a bond of union between 
no distance can wholly sever. Its sod, 
and beutiful as ever, is occasionally visited by a 


which 
green 


ward: 


| MARTA J MeINTOSHL 





2 : ae 
le i 





ie 








HT att 
234 fh : ee 1 RR 
et ee 
pelted lp ane HHA 
fig $38 ql i if eu ide payitiatiy a 
eth te | iid i ! 
pedi |e ane 
ae qi ae : i iin: lal Belly id 
Biches a see say: miei Per FH 
Heal ie a Le eee hel al He 
psn deh me ate 
le ; a ae if 
Z| Sigs ueseeee a H i ip i FF 
3 Bi 
uh: 





SHE ib 




















it ue ae itt Hen He etl its 
pe iq iehin 

7 re Ta 

ETE ne i Lae Uy i 

if ae rh as Pee 3 

a atte tl eh 
ae at ca reece te AL 
au Ua ((uuet any Miealiet 

PEEEeSR iad 224 FI E32 PEE WB sail = #43 4 Pee tgeee 

a eat se t at a a 

i iis lean a a ea euiee gj Hada 

ay site THUR GBI aii pe ui g 
fig Ha ai ue ee 4 a4; zy 
ibe He va : her be Hi 
He ie Fee iB Bee ii 
aun iil a plbig Fe sila 











heart full ‘tones come the rT of 
betray =e Into the ear of the soul, ¥ 
"Tis music for the tuneful rills. Nature whispers, speaks, or warbles, most hen 
Jeena : And even they who seck her orily through science, 
Gave to the Aurora birth, Fea! ath The axe patie = 
Paces ss so | yee eee 
_ Treble to the ocean's roar, " in a r ‘ng boys do in new 3 
On some old resounding shore, and who pl gee : Seaurvies 
Silvery showers from the fountains; of under a | Saghaed eh ‘construc- 
Mists from the mountains ; tion. The effect was like [riches 
Siar key ee ea hee Tao and when an adm group of happy 
When th wie po reeset ke theheareet aiid Th 
‘Music full of ; 
ekiree: Seo ee 
, 0 
Sari the ple treat munating sound: sapere of the ‘cea 
raserti ambition. or $ was 
2h iy jedoch wena ep happy, a8 are an thoughts, or Hower 4 
‘Till across dream, 
in its ontward returns to child- 
Berane of lager Fun alo hoods and tue ould de npiitualy "The Uetle 
Bem ote ene box, wah sity. boand chido rich man‘ hous and loves to play 
Like dancer springing from the ground, with the things that are new and pretty, but he 
‘And now like autumn wind comes sighing, thinks not of thelr market value, nor does ho pride 
pu Pa The farmers home will probably delight him mores 
a # home ‘more; 
ool aap estar ag for he will love living edb take hancanrth 
carol , hounds, and the bob ollincoln better than 
A cleat soprano rising Halted birds the blest; for they ennnot 
ethan Sate Sir mn one iat aie 
And Ao 
Ipamperta in miles presets Her watinnata of Chiitda, wledont rotate Gi fob 
rockets in tha sky, tions of childhood are Virtue is but innocence 
ee coutct “Thu ite emotes tr eoeley tee tears 
Reseacesrince ees | Sa eee eee 
Departing with the fins A i gah spsslction pet ever (eating upward 
Pet le inlet vse rings bac on highs 
As harp with plane of wisdom, may. é 
Eater aston Unrongh Sted jad throwgh confit 
her thonsand voices sings we may again complete the ascending circle, and find 
The infinite aud free. it aia re aa 
16 ages, Loo, rally ; each containing 
ieee eae eh avers all, yet ever 0 os Fins ieee all our new things 
ots out earl ihe givsiti never are old, and yet they are new, Some trath known 
ther Ole B > Ie is ences rigeed on 90 ENE ee 
Can6e Fsaoiaies ontaes o on of earth, 
eee ep eee ene way eee Nothing af true ay dim ceiees Ew ~ Theyouth 
Childhood itself is scarcely more lovely than a | of the world, which ih immortal 
cheerful, kind, sunshiny old age. marble, will return in the Ages, as innocence 
Tlove tho mellow sage, comes back in virtue; but it return filled with 
fetes iat et el Bele 
les F 
es ts , | ramen areainrote 
the secret of ight and old | well as the ”) i 
‘When Tithonus nskeed for an eternal fife in the | strong pinfons, eager to pass“ the flaming: bounds of 
Per eiiad taond. to hin cere, that tramnorsal poudh and cirele all the infinite, 
was not included in the bargain, it surely was be- 
— he to usk the perpetal gift of loving Tax mxoriteh, 
Next is on intense.affection for nature, and | anf NCA nur Bestar open eee Me ead jaar and tee 
rold, if it takes a lively interest in the pairing of | S*oMer. 
binds the jue! flowers, and. Garde Few know how to estimate the precious of 
East ferns. Nature, fri friendship at its real worth; few guard it the 














a big 
. ne i val te 
Hii te 
Beit ae Hf ae in Wh eal HER 
Bea We AHS eae ae 
Bik BE a i ahh He Hat 
' BEE it ma ee ei Haley th 
vag he Ne Hl ; il 
E ft ba Hine een co 
a Poesia a 
et he “fa ida spate rif [a 
nite in ig! dia Hen il Ee ; 
iy Hi a cite i ea pele ii 
ue i ee ula pti Hill 
He i al i te ae gan HY 
Hh arear re wii? paliils 
ian ial | ae iH ce de 
ida ae ue He Tne 
sise254 Uae 





E 
i 


H 


au 
2 
| 
Ee 
22 
£ 
2 
? 


Ud 


i 


E 
H 
[ 





Chareh of Romo tn her Primitive r, compared 
‘with the Charch of Rome at the 5 
Bomay qi Pal remeron ois 


‘Lectures 0b the Principles, aud Results of 


144 
Timo. 


fs 
; 


pina letters to 
“Haltimora. 2 voila 1%mo. Pab- 
Il, and Stanford & Swords, New 


of Atonement, 1541. 
Seriptures and Tradition, Sermon preached at the Ordination 


of Dea York, 1544. 

aces he gh te. es Renvik, oman Dishop ot 
heen Letter to tho Same, 188 of which there were two 
‘Two Discourses on the Second Advent, of Which there were 


iat Harnest Aron to tho Tlshops, Cleney. and 
anne omen rca ‘van. Henry 








Pr Cornee 


The next four years were passed in. 
and study. His 





: 
er 


e Harry Croawell fim_tho early of his !ife © protal- 
nent poll ical editor of tho Federal 3 He commented bs 
career in The Balance, s paper at EE 

of 


associated in this enterprise with Bara 
education, who came to Hudson to 


f 
Es 
i 
z 
: 
i 


iu 
i 
é 
i 
ue 
# 
HL 
BES 


Defore the G. ‘Convention of 1547. collected 
Sermon on F; IN Savectanene peoncnd ab CR’ oveee- ] print 


‘of Bishop Potter. of Penaeylvania 1945. 


Two tier Sry on Fra request the Ce b ral of 
seats Beat asters ie, Panibhed 


‘Lecture on the Defect of the Principle of Relizious Author- 
it Modern Edi dolivered. befre the 
ity in x aaa “a request befere _ 






cia 

‘on Fraternal Totty. gatiored by. sppointinent 
vered roquest of Sclectmen 

Oh the doth 2¢ General Taylor, Prides of ths 

‘request, before the Prot. Ep, Historical Socloty, 

se esesee on Gtarecy-sti) sligioas panetiva/ iis potiaeal ats 





Genera! Convention of | 





Al 
[fe 
y 
te 


i 

i 
i 
1 
isn 


i 
i 
H 
EE 
Ha 
i 
z 
s 


Pee 
: 
: 
Hb 
2 


fe 
i 





B94 CYCLOPADIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 


his . roa 
Tn 1828 he A 

Brownell of Galaeseak "Hylan deoeived Oe 

emotions of this solemn event in one of the most 

beautiful of his 6 1 — 


‘THE ONDINAL. 


Whose strong but mystic chain 
The to Ke God unites, 


Again I kneel as then 1 knelt, 0 
le he wbove me stands, t 
And seem to feel as then I felt 
‘The pressure of his hands, re 
Again the priests, in meek array, 
Say tai ie : 
Beside me bend them down to pray 
Before the chaneel rails; 
As then, the sneramental host 
Of God's elect ave by, 
When many a voice ite utterance lost, 
And tears dimmed many an eye. 


As then they on my vision rose, 
The vaulted #00, 





0 whoin ~~ a 


priesthood, and 
fan anciezt edifice in the vicinity of Copp 
He continued his poeti- 


came the fathor of daughter. 

tonhip pb rae of formation 
a new 

~ Pres ty pape pate be meitioned 

men at ci w : 

Mr, Richard Ht’ Dana ‘and his sou, 

Soares adherence to the rubrics of the 

its worship, an 


orship, rig pete 
parochial charity, and a provision by collections 


the mutual acts of prayer and praise tamed in 
the saine direction with, instead of, 


fection instead of changing it for a blnek 

‘These practices gave offence to the {stop 
of the diocese, Dr, Eastburn, who at the close 
his first Bap det oe service in the church, ex- 
pressed his disapprobation, co \- 
sure of a gilt cross a over the communion 
table, This was fullowed in a few days by an 
official letter to the same effeet addressed to the 
diocese by the bishop. Dr. Croswell, believing 
himself nally Saaree, responded in 

citing authorities from the primitive an 
sas ages of the church in defence of 


F 
t 


also complained of the bishop for nncanonical 
pany in publicly Sra ng heaton with- 
out giv! @ opportuni means 
of sfelble Both parties Taieving themselves in 
the right, no aceonimodation was made of the mat- 
ter; the Bete refired to visit the church unless 
the practices he objected to were discontinued, 
and the parish held their course. In : 
of this, candidates for confirmation were lige 
accompanied by their rector, to resort to. 


un- 
happy difficul she patiah protein, The rector 
we nee Ue Tele th de 





had thus passed from his arrival 
Aa = lk ee 


And arwor ’ 
Ge 
"This he announced instead of tho Ixxxviii., as the 
elxxxvili., which contains the following stanza :— 














Determined are the days that 
Successive o'er thy head; 
hour is on the wing 
That lays thee dead. 
‘The choir, however, following dirceti 
ously | sang the former. At its jasion 
he in his ordinary at the om 
and said from memory, his book havi ty 
from his hand, a sti age, 
in place of as usual the con- 
Geese ear ae 
. A portion of the anditory went 
to his assistance, and bore him helpless to 
oy early ig ere He 
to 
ttared but a’ few words. A by his phy- 
sicians of his imminent @ closed his eyes 
ee aa aa of it and 
ipa aulapareny RinGnieetiy took ss | ay: ed vie ou 
bl the “commendatory prayer for | Wynd sven tho real gentts of the place, 
a mn at the point of departure,” provided — Taught, in a totove ta thes 
by the Book of Common-Pra ~ “ Asthe word, | «Earth's every virtue, wit in poesy ;” 
amen, was ty the vencrable priest, © Berkeley, aa J read, with moistened eyes, 
- ae mA, DEXCAIS TO. BAe, gently, | Or thy sale bt bird eatery, 
*, in 
‘The ‘boausifal Harmony ef the’ donth with tho | ‘ro call & valpor wesith e toonder® tame, 
life of Dr. Groswell coubined with the, respect But in thy fervor sacrificing all 
Dee apae bis) asaancte, called foeth many To objects of the name of Paul,— 
ex] ions of sympathy his bereaved family Yes ere ‘our official line 
al ogra, ‘At his funeral his body was | 4 faith revived. identical with thine ; 
carried his honse to the church by eight of seiteors tir eahepeee toot & 
Battie ond roe tothecetteryat New | Ast whao, on yonder walls, we now survey, 
Blivao: where \i-was ra sity with The man “ whose chalked his successors way, 
ii wlivesef the dvossesdy Atlgs nse ors Br : omg he thee pope direees led, 
ing seene of the ninth of November is tee the ways of Providence ine 
regularly on the unnual recurrence The gentle with the masculin 
nse a a oy ws | Heya eel ze 
biography of Dr, Croswell, by his May nike esier one 











ciate Hips ig HAUT 

i ee ft il Han udu! Te 
iN ¢ Ue Eee ta a au 
i tee the a anu sala eal i 
ay Hd ii lita Tee Hite HAL 
| Sai Hi est elegen etter rte 
1F aH A ¢da da de ql 

25 ¥ ep 2 Eg ads Lasihy 
rhs lal, (wide fl 
iui ai abd tit tp fig ua ae 
eEMU EDS Hae} nad pe ae Hear 
Pale vB aD reve 
NAG 

















3 


i 


in connexion 
ion in which he maintained 


i ee eu it 


ee 


secretary of 


Governor Walker in 1850, Mr. 





§ (TRH 
Re Ten 


ages 
ia 


of his four years’ 


he was 
Frencha 
‘fies 


the School for 
‘and satirical exhibition of tha party: 





E : iQ 
1 raed 
gn 283 setceceereces 
: an K FE aE tivi. 
a hi ii ea eee 
ai ted area ee 
i} aH aie liad APP aie ey tre aol dp 
z F Spd berate ge. S220 82 aaa. $2222 
lalate @ alan nua Tai tld 
BHT Ht TPL er ener see 
Tete in a guH Pee Wala ls ale ah; 
| HEH TN eee Hee este He 


Ee 





ity ) Sagar 


frauds and relaxed political sentiment of the day, 
which may be presumed Soret as! 

writer's experiences, some of which are detailed, 
tir Ae ee Rr ahd 
People of the State, which he published on the 
“late frauds ted at the election held on 
the Tth of November, 1853, in the city of New 
Orleans.” Mr. Guyarré was on that occasion an 
independent candidate for refusing to 
be controlled ey the party organization, and was 
—- thongh he polled a large and influential 
vote, raelernibed sentiments, in regard to 
the political mancenvres of the times, are freely 


Spee at the close of his pamphlet. 

ie has since taken partin the Know-Nothing” 
organization of his native state; and was one of 
the delegates excluded from the = eouncil 
of the party at Philadelphia in June, 1855, on 
the ground of their position as Roman Catholics, 
This drew from him a privately painted address, 
in wl with animation and vigor, he handles 
on. 


directness, 
English. As an historian, though his narratives 
are hizhly colored, in a certain vein of poctical 
ni they are based on pea casas Way 
pee ‘authorities, and are to be consulted wi 

; the subjects of his early volumes are 
in themselves romantic, and the story is always of 
the highest interest. His last volame brings him 
to the discussion of a most iinportant era in our 
political history. 


YATHRY PAGOBEET.* 
‘The conflict which had sprung up between the 
bers bee sot eeps pe ie a aha of 
spiritual j in Louisiana, may not have been 


© From the Iistory of the Spaatsh Dowtnation ta Louttlaua, 





CYCLOPADIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 







Jesuit his Vicar-Geuvral in New Orleans, 


forgotten, The Bishop of Quebee had appointed « 


4 more harmonious commt- 
ity than she oases, cvs ie rela Cares 


‘2 had come ¥: g in the colony, where he 
had christened got meoriad alinoat z 
that he was looked npon as a sort of 
and tutor to all, He was 7 
peace, and if there was ra aa ich father 
gobert hated in this world, if he could hate at wll, it 
‘was trouble—trouble of any kind—but 3 
of that sort which urises i 
contradiction, How could, indeed, father 


not be with old and young, with both 
and with every clas? Who have 
of one whose harbored no ill feeling 


for 
heaven and for the world, to let things run smooth: 
and easy, than to make any noise. Was there p 
enough of unavoidable turmoil in this of 
Dulations and miseries? Besides, he knew G 
‘was merciful, and that all would turn rigl > 
end. should he not have been an i 













repentance, and even 
not to frighten him away? If the extra 


the hol; of 
ng marriages, of ee ine oF 
for the dead, and of hearing Ca 
Mt 


ze 
i 
4 
F 


HH 
i 
E 5 
f 
- 


penance, and of perform 


iv—he 
» What soul had been there! Ce al 
rh an oo he eet ‘as 


years of labor in the vineyard of the Lord, 
to change his manner of working, to admit that he 
had blundered all the time, to dig op what he had 
planted, and to undertake, when alinost un octoge- 


Has 


duties of religion were strictly sere ale habe 


| 


men proceeded from the head and not from tho 
heart, because that was always kind, wey then 
hurl thavderbolts at beings 20 exquisitely delicato 
and so beautifully fragile—the in work of 
the creator—when they could be reclaimed by the 
mere seratch of a rose’s thorn, and brought back into 
the of righteousness by the mere pulling of 
asilken string? As to the men, it is true that they 
never haunted the confessional; but perhaps they 
had no sins to confess, and if they had, and did not 
choose to acknowledge them, what could he dof 
it have been sound policy to have annoyed 

them with fruitless exhortations, aud threatened 
them wi.) excommunication, when they would have 
atthe brufum fulmen? Woe it not better 

to them a little, so as to make good grow out 
of evil? Was not their aversion to confession ro- 
deemed by manly virtues, by their charity to the 
jpoor and their generosity to the church? “Was not 
is course of action subservient to the interest both 


F in 
ehould be interrupted, he sodu- 
ia atti to that of others, and eS icrall 
with the exigencies of every flitting fisttrY 











‘Dugobert 
ed per 
the same harmonious 
father Dagobert’s head, It ad peed ove 
was 

notwithstandi ‘hat a few detractors might 
e shonld be blamed, come 
ithe ‘oelon wich ae im am vuni- 

w 

ik mes thera mgeoihne 
ence, until he should a ey Me Sica 
whence no traveller returns.” Certain it is that, 
whatever judgment a rigid moralist might, om a close 


Tn 1849, he again removed to Brooklyn, where ha 
still remains, at the head of a large and influen- 


tial 
Der ates is the author of The Fru of the 


or aes ee 





g ERE a 
| Sa ay 
i i 3 a Hung on i 





3 

H i 

ik Trey i i 
feels nile j 
277, ails gf &3gahsd 
Hf Hitt 


8 

‘<a ts Sera re 
i uf fEEe , 
7 








ay 








Groner W. BErHUNE! | 
a thongh not nec 


Claims of our Countey on 


1H 
fig 

ia HH : 
, fee eat 
3 aH papi Psibiats 
Wale ae Hi 


ee EE 


the Harvard Address, 
Men," 


is 
ie 






ts eet 
tf 


if 


t 
aT; 
: 


ipaee 
ae 
i 


a 
: 
il 


EPSSEERE 
gerd 
2 lta 

viet cle 
: I Feg® Hl 
E iat 25 * 
gelrrtalpe 

shes is 33h 
laut 


the fusing west ep siratcies, shall 

have ove national What is wanting in one 

race will be supplied by the characteristic ies 

of the others; and what is excessive in either, 

checked by the counter-action of the rest, Nay, 

thoneh Sar. Sime the pewiy come may retain their 
in ennol 


peat oan 
ou 2 const ite 
this people! 


EDWARD SANFORD, 
and political writer, is the son of 
Porn Chancellor of the State, 
born in the city of New York in 1805. 
was educated at Union College, where he was 
1824. He then in the 
the office of Mr. jamin F. 


a 
€ 


BEES 
ae 255 
Fees 
pect: 
gfe 
4 
} 


in Brooklyn ; was next associated with 
the New York Standard ; and whenthat was 


ee, eld to the comercial em! 
ments of the he became one of the editors of 


which year of the esta- 
pcm eT Ms Bare aes 

85 as 
sociate editor of the newspaper, then the 





Fetlie 
su 
fat 





i 


a 
ifs 





the 

Magazine, and the Spirit of ‘the Times, Mr. San- 
ford has been 4 frequent and genial contributor, 
His poem, The Loves of the Fishes, has been 
justly adwired for its fancy snd in 
delicate flowing verse, as he sings— 

Not in the land whore beauty loves to dwell, 

And bards to sing that beauty dwelleth there = 


Not in the land where rules th’ enchapter’s spell 
And fashion’s beings beautiful and rare ; 
Not in such land are the seenes 1 tell 
No odors float upon its sunny air; 
No ruddy vin! and no tinted flowers 
Gladden its fields or bloom within its bowers, 


all. gold and loveles far beneath iteroae, 
ie maiden an r-haired bride, 
Ted dteanton there dunbep aa eae, - 
. * * . . . . . ] 
Smile not is at my Io’ \ = 
War deot is etraaye Gnas Sokeceoal a tel . 


Mf jonas mies aaa 
forth ; or ea ete thoughts. 


raundingty birth 

Than aught foawste tan upper earth. 

ntgemel yusesd wights of ow degree 
Santidedarben iit ketee 

‘And bs how beneath 


The best of Mr. Sanford’s poetical effusions are 
elicate ile and 


With a song on ee 
Anda drop iw his eye. 


Where 

Lie, hard-cider dead. 
Seiten the Whigs al 
Picgeatenitirs poten , 
When the Whigr areal withered, 

are 

(ies fra ir tg 
Oh! who would inhabit 

‘This sad world alone? 


is quite as worthy in its way as 
celebrated Momois of P. P. 


heart years have not made cold, 
Of passions scathed not by the bli 
ibition, that survives the battle rout. 
‘The man within theo scorns to Diag. the mime 


Chief of a hundred warriors! dost thou yet— 
arsaaiahed and captive—dost thou’ deem that 
‘The glowii -star of thy glory set— 
MAR ba east neds bright career? 








‘Thon tol cm; hare bid Als Hae REE ae 


Set thy cold blood in motion! Tast been mellow 
By a sly cup or #0, of our fire waters? 


They are deadliest poi 
Plot make Gen sowar aol hen White men's 
ves. 

And sloth, and penury, and jion'’s 's 

‘And lives of misery, and early graven 

For by their power, believe me, not a day goes, 

But kills come Foxes, Sac, and Winnebagoes, 

ba ary ie heart far away! 
‘0 the deop bosom of thy forest home, 

here thy young papooses play, 


shell-decked wampam belt, 
‘Thy rugged heart just think of her, and melt. 





EHNA 
HH Ae uni irate Bhat 








a tall Bi iia 
fga5e 
. elk a Hi a 
bbppet fied 8 Hag: its Salis a 
Hina HUT EY 

See Hie! eee 
le PELE TEBE Hil Hig at i His 
an ils $3n822 52224 HE ria a8 ald iit aul TE Ale a 
ma ‘a mi re Pena sul fa: sranuiar nt 
dale tial plant Hive RHE 
Higetiee ea Lea Marea 
[yEuE euiltel Petter nia Bray ae ae a ie 
i aye aie: ee REL ; EE Er; Pe 
Heer ree separ 
at earl it 


hip 
ib ‘lil si ae ae fe i 
PE Le itl 









= 3 

an 
inter £ EEDIHS 4 
Fe Bh Sie : sgray ad 33 og 83 £255 
FEess a5e3233i £425 toagicipsaiiesiieta ils 
alti! iy: ain il Hail Hl j 
His] PHIRSHBEANGE PSNHINLERHE AHA 
Hy ul ea je ae 
ait) 1 ETH lanai! Papal 
6 abe if Bunt Hiatt fis ata! eric 
pagal Un ehtn aii Gly Inia cpu 
abil: wii | Hinata r(inieletisties ar i th 
pean uiclitiui ial e di ee a hae ana 
= iy Hu anime eipeeired tee at tsi 






fic, he 


B3E 
i 
i 


Hine 
nk 
tyke! 

if 

5 

: 

E 

: 

: 


E 


: 
i 


u 
i 


e 
2 


i 


: 
i 


none bold enough te claim it. 
‘a correot estimate of the powers of one 
of the humblest, peat Ete) par- 

to and, alive narrow and 


Bia 
He 


“HE 


FE 


. to create 


BL 
| 


. 

% 
2: 
ES 
= 
F 


in 


& 


He 
fs 
i 
i 


Fd 
i 
E 
y 


i 
33 





a 
i 
| 
be 


E 

it 
HE 

Hh 


LE 
ue 

tr rel 

Hd 


| 


! 


i 


1B 
: 

fi 

Hie 


iE 


there is no instance on of bis even in 
his most elimbi , aspired to any other ele- 
vation than the Freep Tn brief, is no 
humble public en no low dignity: 


Gren bo the lanrols on the Palmer's brow. 


some cynical critic, * where are the jests 
no patina 


But, 
of your Yorick, where ia the 


of his wit, his music, or his ? Let us 
ve some single specimen of those ers which 
you are applauding to the echo, or at furnish 


secrles ip soos chomiapeaa oh ie ea 
co) orn) man {” 
or aptrk puted ates fame of Pot Pio 
Palmer, to be secure, must rest chiefly on tradition, 
A dim iry immortality will outlast all other 
kinds of fame, for no one ean call its title in 

Its very dimness invests it with a soft postic halo 
that lingers over nnd brightens it, giving it the en- 





#F 


4 
i 
! 
i 
re 


i 
A 
ca 
= 
ES 
H 
25 
te 


F 

ti i 
foe 
tart 
iene 
Pa Faerer 


i 
is 
ii 
3 
a 
a 
ef 


his class, we eanseloct him alone and say, “here was 
# bellman.” Glorious old Pot Pie! 

‘His name Senow a tn the bateh 

{rte eel Sus which tang ins 


atest em ros oe 


Micron, of which he subsequently became one of 


Roveries of a Quict Man, IP coDection in two vo- 
of articles in Mirror, ineluding a 

on New York society entitled the 
remaini is ocenpied 


fl 
He 


The 
comments on the 


‘ 
HE 
f 
A 


F 
rf 
H 
is ! 
ze 
| 


il 
i34 
fi 
; 
: 








ha ul 


i) eee 
feu Pugigkr GD Hignee ded Aine ii! i 
itd jada: Men Ey eae é 

i a a HEE a iaa iH aod EH 
ahh gid {Ba THEE! atk ibe) paths oH 

F saebtgsttvescaies bes iyedegise |2-87H ait 3 2310523), 2 

ei i AH semi itl Meee Gn ential de 

is Rana 
Gt ee : sul anda 
, ef ¢ ae ¢ 432 4 3! sc = 3 
ul Hi i nu 3 id, ih F liigeatte 
45 Hy 3233 7 i ae 5 bie $32 
ut Hui ae aust Lal tes 
waited ely ie Seu en HE id 
iii 


i 


| 





: 





HH 





rr. 
nies of Sands in the ed 
lanck, in his life of that anthor, 
the compliment :—“ This was 
0 shortly after became a regular 
, sab ada 
gained an enviable y reputation 
Crayon Sketches, a series of essays full of 
leasantry, and wit, alternately re- 
ing the reader of the poetical eloquence of 
the quaint humor and eccentric tastes 

Lamb." 

Gox, after writing for a number of years 
the Mirror, ret to England. His ns 
wi 


ere prosperous. He 
tter in his old style to 
his friend Morris's Home Journal, where his 
tances one day, we think in 1851, were 
to read his obituary. 


BIOGRAPHY OF JACON MATA. 
ee et Oe ties ead in all 


a Wa Sook: rapes a ce le, 
AKESPRATE, 
arian end geetiacoes, slew ime fo, fxtredncn to soe ac 


kala 


“il 


i 
B 


| 
d 


z 


z 


3 


z 
5 


tH 
gir 






i 


Hal 


[EE 
Ee 


iE aan 
i Ay! 
E 

FEES 

ay 


1 


i 
f 


il 


2 
F, 
z 


a 
ig] 
zis 


a] 


zi 
aE 


being created high 
i that the hone! salts eeepeaaen 
ing, rable the: 5 
long and unsatisfactory career, never msde an 
it more creditable to themselves, more bene 


a 


ahi 


tionately and familiarly term: indeed, 
ier eey Coes that he with <0) 
1 attributes, and can see things that are 
from mortal ken; or how, it is contended, is it pos- 





| sible that he should, as he does, 
Bring forth the seeret'st tan of blood? 

That he ean discover “ undivulged crime”"—thet 
when a store has been robbed, he, or 
hesitation, can march directly to the house w! 
the goune seecepiecsto® sod sy, / > Cisaa 
—or, when a gentleman's ny 
pertain ts wenn erase ean, 
w hand oue 
ea exclaim = es a 1 ie te De tho 
© is gifted at strange priaciple 

tke BE Shares und thary, sant “z 

‘* The New York Mirror. 


] th a i 


> And stall of 


tt 
Hi 
a 


i 
i 
i 


Hy 
afl 
lh 
i 
Hi 


: 
= 
a] 


: 
Ee 


an 
* k—no, he is more in the 
a 


= 
z 


i 
a 
Pree. 
[ 
3 
ar 


if 
fil 
ae 
il 
i 
J : 
tf 
iN 


H 
: . 
FT 


his clothe: we have ss yet been unab! : 
Ths Reva is Moy cH as ree a foreibly 

‘to imind when describing 
teen us 


dis eros both of ate ad ar 

¥ 

‘Where Ils glance of“ apprehension” fell, 
Hope withering nd ther aighod, farewell! 


eel tome its disadvantages Pure and blame- 
Jess as his life is, his eocicty is not courted—no man 
boasts of his friendship, and few indeed like even 
to own for an iatimats nequaintance. Wher 
ightest netion is watched and eri- 
to lay his hand 
sper somethi) 


mo, Was one summer afternoon, when acting in his 
‘ity in the hall. The room was 
erowded in every and as he entered with a 


luekless wretch in his gripe, a low suppressed mur | 


through the hall, as if some superior bein 
‘had alighted in the midst’ of them. pia the 


out for “ silence,” and 













ae 
Pree ae an 


JOHN INMAN, 


rina 
a tour in E earned by his previous 
On his ss tctatha are himself to the 
of the law, eee alert hs GacanL ae 
and became an editor of the Standard, a 
York newspaper. In 1880 he Jeft this journal to 
connect himself with the Mirror, _ 
In 1883 Mr. Inman married Miss Fisher, 


Mr. John Fisher, three of the best comedians of 
the “Old Park” stock company. Jn, the sone 


his last illness from performing its duties. 
. Inman was also the editor for some 
of the Columbian Magazine and of 
volumes of selections, and a contributor to 
Now York Review, the Spirit of the Times, 
several of the popular magazines, where his 
and sketches, and occasional poems, were 
with favor, His versatility as a writer may be 
estimated from the fact, that on one occasion he 
wrote an entire number of the Columbian M. 
zine when under his charge, He died on the 
of March, 1850, > 
to 
THOUGHTS AT THE GRAVE OF A DEPARTED FRIEND, — 
Loved, lost: one, fare thee well—too harsh the do 
eeaieaiied ae one in J 
Tears for thee; and at tomb, 
Toone at ar een of Sto day, 
ike Hine bones near, with solemn gl 
ec Us sorrow! thought. pay, 
For thee, blest: spirit, ppl dei oe = 
Here mouldering sleeps, 


t 


and scissors pA be 

carving, drawing, moul ie are, 

ay mtg ep oer ola 
seen a an 

old Roman coin, executed 


ares meee Nile: ts e Tea etioereacoe 
See his ts ble esha tro 
manners ani 
ve ‘ne kind artisan taught him 
use of fine tools; a stone-cutter, of more than 
ordiuary taste, instructed him to wield a chisel; be- 
him the use of 


sought and found the sid be required, while explor- 
ing the streets of hia native ecdoa Ais 
iit be ase poring over a folio, or contemplating 


Shaw or Coggswell, waiting 
some treasured volume on the process 
‘sults of his favorite shelves of Harvard 


‘olio.” 


his course at this institution he 
ibsped The Sedety o¢ Washingoon Allston, an-er- 
‘YOu, 1.—2T 


setting hie coares at" she josdtabe Col- 


ness and ree orre ey 

an attack in fever, du the progress 

re. Which the patient was removed to the neighbor- 
hood of Boston, but withou effect, his 


it beneficial 
disease arrivi ae oe 
on the 18th of 1852, 


A Memorial of Horatio Greenough, published 
| in 1853, ao only collection which has 
| been made of his eae: These 

series of on the public works of the capitol 
city wi title of at 

= on i nee ea a 

| on an he proposed 
COOPER OREEE in which the writer 
| besanees terest, 4 defence of Trambull’s Deelu- 
| ration of dence from the famous slur of 
| 


pegs foxes suggested by study of natare 








ee 


ae future 


al 


















i | . i a fee sree eae a 





ae 
ole B 
PAS a A ERE 7 ey 
He aes rh tees ay Ha bel SEs 
ee 
: gable Hanlli 
ay mi ape ioe i - i — i : 
i Hae aye sett napalull 
ea etn is ali Hal HE Pattie i 
; Ei Ar = lar del my ive te if 3 2 Hae a 
ee Ae He oe aul # Gl tf 
3 ate aie 2 es fs oe i 8 i Es 
i aH ve fal He ee tl val vate ql 


aniston” ‘No, 119, 84 ‘Tot. 
ae —— 


of Mr. Bartlett 


ete 


refer for 
‘the United 


=. : 





all a revelation of the rich field of investigation in 
the of the region, In this work hia 
joneer, achieving his brilliant results ¢ 


his accustomed energy. 
it to Yucatan in 1842, chiefly to com- 


second 


his anti researches, I 
Palatina 184 of olden of Pron 


The exact, sinh delineations ene an oa 

b eyhei neil of hin Proncte Oat sie Catherwunes 
ete with Mr, Stephens, who subse- 
a costly ace oe of plates of 


wees subject, woh eco deere igh 
els a man of science and siished 


on 


uly rr those ao- 
ni Prorthi asd) scfentiie 


Mi Tato Mr. Stephens was a del being on 


Bos gin to the State vention of 
jel to revise the Constitution, in which 
he took an active part. 
ee US oa enya Udita 
the Ocean Steam Navigation Company to connect 


New York and Bremen. The steam navigation 
of the Atlantic was then in its infancy, and the 
establishment of the ee with the buildin; 
of the vessels, called all resources. He 
sailed in the Washington on her first tri 
Bremen. An account of his visit to Humbol at 


eae te tena. Aa iaelots 18 the’ gros 
Cota to connect the two oceans the 

and was elected Vice-Presi- 
page pty tials He subsequently became 
President. He travelled over the Isthmus in- 


in, Se aie ar Gat sepribiers 
Trae seas er (Saahgregd ial we 
to the eo was 

Seows tts Upon tei come quod 


CYCLOPADIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 


.countries of the old wi 








‘as at Petra and in Russia, he was some- 
thing of an original adventurer. 


7H RASTIADO AT OASRO—PROM INCIDENTS OF TRAE DE 


finished my purchases in the 
wenite area ready ra a 
dromedaries, camels, and guides, and 

find the letter tre gotctior ef Aube wah 


baa ea a .T 
East, but I had never seen it inflicted: 


his 

id him was a poor 
eget while the eee 

down Feel near him woes msn wha 

lute and somewhat any expression 

the accuser, seeking erase rather than justice. 

er et governormade a. movement 

oise ceased ; all stretched their 

aa turned their eager eyes towards him; the ac 

— uate erying, beh beh! 

wide an ‘Upon governor, 

The spoke a i Ne a low voice, to. 

me of course epee x 

audible, but the; ~ seemed to fall upon the 

ears Mn the culprit like bolts of thunder; the 

seer ‘was over, and, without a word or 

a he ad hial dows on See 

the governor, A 

around ; @ man on each side t took him by 

and stretebing out his arms, kneeled upon 





i 
i 
Peake 


i 
e 
th 
; 
rfl 


be 
H 
Es 
E 
fe 
aE 


ERGY 
28 
; 
fe 

ii 


i 
2 
z 
F 


Fe 


dee 
ef 
B 
i 


: 


RE 


Han iy arm, 

If 1 had consulted merely the impul 
nid have consigned him, and the 
ie whole nation of Turks, to the lower 


+ bur it hl a yp cine Cold 
ci ae ie¢, and I never made a 
rae, of fecling to expediency, than when 
re-entered his presence. 


: 
: 


g 
z 
3 


i 


I 


The shricks of the un-° 


happy eriminal were ringing through the r, 
but foveraoe receive with ay cali «site 
as if he 


accursed whip, a3 it fell again 
foot! I have heard es 
sea was raging, and t) 
the last time upon 
imploring arms towards us, and with his 
flare in vain for help; but I never 
See teetiadl crad bebeemn. Iphone the 
re Te 01 
would never make an rebhcete eo 
 Whea the scribe handed it to him for his sig- 
nature, it contained but half a dozen lines; 
he fumbled in his pocket for his seal, aud dipped itin 
the ink; the it ion did not suit him, and he 
made another, and after a delay that seemed to me 
eternal, employed in folding it, handed it to me with 
& most gracious smile, [ am sure Igrinned horribly 
return, aud almost snatching the +, just ns the 
blow fell, I turned to hasten from the scene. 
OA bel elites Re anes ee 
jn 3 I east one loo! rN 
the rhe he = hg 


oor 
ly, and saw the feet laid open in 


2!) Saher atl ean: Mart lta At) 


moment the bars were taken away, and the 
led fect fell like lead the floor. [had to 
my way through the crowd, and before I could 
saw the fellow revive, and by the first 
upon his feet, but 


Cat 


‘wot 


ae 





Raphue, 
‘The sun is still for ever sounding 
With brother epheres a rival song, 
And on his destined journey bounding, 


Thesight ane he along, 
\¢ sight gives angels strength, though greater 
Te weal cteet thealhtenbitten: 
And all thy wondrous works, Creator, 
Are grand as in creation’y prime. 
Pe bn ee Sal ce besos an nea 


of an Address 
Bui Bs Kappa erston before ine Secllles of Hapeard 








: 
é 
i 
} 








MATTHEW B. MAURY. 
Marroew Foxranse Macey, o descendant of the 
Rev. James Fontaine, an eminent 


cena vin rersnered os nt to the Po- 
tomac. While at sea he devoted his leisure time 
to the study of mathematics, a branch of know- 
in which he at first found himself unequal 
to the requirements of his profession, For the 
extending at the same time his know- 
of modern languages he made use of 
meeralical 5 orks. 5g be narnia Ds 
vestigations became greatly inconvenient 
the necessity of referring to a nnmbe. of | 
_ volumes, and with a view to save others a like dif- 


genome ban taOaeins soon rhi es 
his way from Tennessee to join a surveying ves- 


lt 
fi 
: 
E 
: 


FE EE 
ll 
ra 
Ae 
Fe | 
Bees 
inHF 








to obtain with equal exactness 
clouds above and ee — 


the of the 
In 1865 he published The yoo 
of th Sea a work whic he peer ped 
results is varied investigations eae 
of remarkable clearness and interest. 


de- 
scriptions of natural ani of the voy- 
phat abe echagt By ue ae ges 
sare al sea 
mate fob etary Latent 
\ipoll nevr.and Chen she meat she 
garrets and sea log-books w! 
his inv: naturally exciting the enthn- 
siasm of as well as himself, called forth, 
This quality of humor finds a wider scope in the 
of the writer, and is a pleasant 














= F-| HM 
23 ae £ ae Tie 
ostasiieg £338 cet i 
Sane ile A iE ee 


mean HEF 
y ie BLE iil He ee We gl iH ul ; 
> ; fea 228s = i 
a i el ne 


Hai ui st in ih ine t ual 
3 * Anat 4 f 
i: 3283 Zi le 


zal eveneteel eet ce 
EG 





geyue 
Wh erEisa rode: 
ihn ikea Hate nia 
bud iu! a Ha it ne HH itt enn E ie 
3 = ne ag “249d fe 
5 ii; rare i we ile ce italia ania aH OnEL Hi 
Hal Beet aint Hi ae 
i =é: 4 le a HEE sphatis 5 gahig? Epes FI af elegundail als 
elt i ce ait Hellas 
1 lye dal Flue ies sue Ena ii He 
ul alls Be HE a ae au eliGe BAAD HR ii 
ep enn Hien 
| 








iy 
ue 
i 
ey 
rEDy 


I 
fe 
i 
; 
a 


i 
i 
Hi 


aay 
se i : 
ie 
Hel 
niEeee 
eiet 
filer 


eizee 2 
mf 
alk 

Es 

: 

4 


= Eis 
fie 
gil 
fe 
un 
Ed 

i 
Fe 


5 
ey 
az 
rh 
ei 
# 


Ay 
iu 
gt 
E 

: 

E 

z 


command of Jackson, employed in the Indian 
fgainst the Oreeks and Seminoles, His wife 
while our author, the second son, was in his 
he was left in the absence of his 
the care of his gran(mother, Though 
education derived little aid from the 
means of his fumily, which were limit- 
he had not the benefit of early 
training, vet the associations of this 
c life were neither unhappy nor unproduetiv 
ile his energy of character and rich! fy ecitowed 
intellect were ee ont an immediate of 
mental activity and honor. come law 
for a he was admitted to the bar at 
Charleston at the age of twenty-one. He did 
not long practise the profession, but turned ins 
fe a training to the uses of a literary life. 
is first active engagemont was in the editorship 
ofa caly newspaper, the Charleston City Gazette, 
in which he nppceet the ‘ailing doctrines of 
nullification ; he wrote with industry and spirit, 
but being interested in the paper as its proprie- 
tor, and the enterprise proving unsn he 
was ee by its failure of the limited patri- 
mony he had embarked in it, 


a Hite 
4385 


commencement of his career as an author 
He wrote verses at cight 


preceded 5 
years of and first appeared before the public 
aa tig the publication, about 1835" of a 
on Gen. barte Cotesworth Pinckney, 


in 
in verse, of the French Revolution of 1830, The 
Tricolor, or Threa Days of Blood in Paris, 
ene a er otare bie ae Mr. Simms 
iow York, where a im, 
ni 
tie al 








ual 
Sait 
inl 
fa 
Ha 


'E 
l 
i 
ta 

Ketel 


i 
F 
x 


erEiTsi 
Hale 
Laat 
iid! 
ae 
“qu 
seas 
Aeitile 


Alabama: his summer residence at Charleston aud 
Woodlands 





at Midway, with frequent visits to the northern 
cities; these are the few external incidents of 
a career, the events of which must be songht for 
in the achievernentsof the author. The latter are 
sufficiently numerous and important, 

To proceed with their prodaction in some elassi- 
fied npr author's poems may be first enuime- 


mentioned, was a volume in New York in 1 
Southern and Pictures, lyri 


Passages lyrical, senti- 
and descri; 3 Donna 
inthe Donone Shewiih a Spaniels bar Cee 


lished at Charleston in 1843; Grouped Thoughts 
nt Fatiaees Fae ntl pore earn an 
Areytos, or Songs yf the South, 1840; Laye of the 


ig. 


oe ; 
ae 7 


UI 


ne Ho 
oe 


lal faa 


Gl 








: ey Pt Hi lites iH ae ii ate 
Sees UPR A ine: (San Be 
ue nei Hea ea 
5 , Hea i ie hit i ae Hee ' fae: alll ar | 
Fiat ieee aera ica ell 
cee ee a ee 
2 UGE Aa dijjratsteiiatiitdnti Fe juREn 





ae 
i 
if 
i 


ik 
“S 
an 
= 
io 


ie 
i 
Z 


E 
> 
= 
& 


A 
F 


- 
; 


To Periodical literature he has always been a 
Mberal contributor, and has himself founded and 
conducted several reviews and Amon; 


volumes in 1825 ; 
mena 3 The Maguolia, ic eatin 
a ine and month review, 
fahed a0 Charis "7 


erbocker, Orion, Southern Literary Messenger, 
(os oe ara and other magazines, A re- 
Trollope, in the American 
for 1882, attracted considerable attention at the 
time. In 1849, Mr. Simms became editor of the 
Southern Quarterly Review, to which he had pre- 
viously contributed, and which was revived by his 
writings and personal influence. Several Micel- 
Janeous ot Seen’ es be introduced in this oe 
nexion. ie my Lady, a melange, in 
1833; Views and Reviews of American 


Literature, several lectures, 
critical and biographical sketches; Father 
Abbot, or the Hs 


sketches of 


Counsel 
of and brief essa) 
Southward Ho! a species 


lished in the Southern Literary rear anil 
since incloded in the volume entitled The Pro- 
Si Argument, 

Tn addition to these numerous literary produc- 
tions, Mr. Simms is the author of several orations 
on public occasions —The Social, Principle, the 
True Secret of National Permanence, delivered in 





eeeEpecisat te the Plays of Wiitart Stat tom 
eratratadenna caieaes oe 

are not ins wi + ra 

edited with notes, andan Introduction to each play, 
& Brother: New York. 1548. pe 








| a8 an essayist, fond of 





a 


The numerous writings of Mr. Simms are 
characterized by their earnestness, sinceri 


ty, and 
worker a8 he is in litera: 
ture, he pursues each subject with new zeal and 
enthusiasm. They are a remarkable series 
works, when it is considered how large a iT 
of them involve no inconsiderable thought 
original research. But Mr. Simms is no ordin, 
worker, Much ashe has accomplished, much 
Lefore him,—and in the prime of life, with a phy- 
sical constitution which answers every demand of 
the active intellect, ho still pursues new game in 
the literary world. 

As an author, he has pursued an honorable, 
manly career. ils constant engagements in the 
press, as a eritic and reviewor, have given him 
opportunities of extending favors to his brother 
writers, which he has employed. His 
generosity in this respect is noticeable. Nor has 
this kindness been limited by any local ; 
here ie state teat as oe one of oy 

ief, in a literary view jef, sup) 
her interests. As a novelist, itr Benn is 


] enn in delineation, dramatic in 


fea as 
is description of scenery, a master of plot, 
and skilled in the arts of the practised story 
jel His own vat lead him 1 inane 
tion ‘ani ie provinces ive 
lieciersataet he is apt to introdace much of 
their spirit into his prose creations. IHis powers 

diseussing the philosophy 


in 



















































it 


ay 


: ao 
of th great valley of She Bespeakenoal, ah. For Siok boas res 
much inusic played without thauks am I indebted | ming-birds, too, whom we have 
Be ee leararpecs of Sianeng tree! for how many | looked sweet upon, but be identified 
w gs of thought b like oracles into | from to a 
my eart how many new shapes of seid oriole who tree 
eB tan Res tat eat eto nl by od b f our 
constant is the « i tt 


a 
z 
Bee 


re 

i 

uf 
2 
4 
Ha 


d 

z 

E 

F 
7 
ih 

nie 

E 


diderston tern wen aeted in ~a 
Brees geen | 5, tn nlventaeta meee 
becoming ccrepiblcaa! fei talibgen res jos edge’ of the sea.” He 


; sitting quietly on the grass till our pass | where in due time he was graduated in the class 
ing E 


printed at 
hard by, emerges to take his short’ 
Car ite oud th ng Pe boveiee lew tn the ‘oon of Ise futon the flea soph 
etait te Mlsios.ceeryiin. oc vaniiiay to. his pop cap iimdng teste by life 
oh kiss This year, he shows, | am grieved meat to a Professorship of 


c he 

of his shape, has dey much of that measured | tavolled in 1826, making the usual tour 
phaki Risk won oe rapand ‘He presumes | of the continent, including Spain, He was 

& little on your allowance for old ago; and with | absent three years; om his return, he 
this pardowable weakness growing upon him, it | at Bowdoin Oollege, as Professor of 
but right that his position aud standing | Langunges and Literature, and wrote 





ancien ‘ 
wate ey of sat, seve | Fite a i tne eed the i 
wer ie 
Fugue com o ene on fie se wid of he tre travel ia) Outre iy eae a 
you, and though saucy to me, I observe that | Sfter the manner of Irvi Book; 
whsy commence nequsintance invariably with wanfa but before the oe tes Sue in this form, 
wo 
from too hasty 4 coufideace in my greyhound | entire in two volumes. 
but the beauty of that fellow was a trap The of the manner, the nice phrases 
against which Inad furtished) them with no | and. fanciful ilostrations—a 
instinct! (A fact, sir, which would pret- | postical style—with the suggestions of fas- 
point a moral!) | The ceeeee case sass tidions i snarked thia in Ue oye o€ Abe 
© Iawn, and the black walnut over the shoulder public as a book of dainty promise, 
835, 


[ 


of the flow: den, have been, through my dy- 

es fa: iu toate. Bie oeateene 1 py In 1 ie cot keting een 
ees then, not. be Sremenip out,” under | 5, Mr. Se amg 500 
‘Of our feathered connexions and friends, we are | CST now made a second tour to Europe, 
nae aig Bebe gs cr beat 

Lincoln, the first tha top of the | 6, The mas fir amar po ltpted ce | 
Young maple near the doar cottage, and the | Mh" pemaets he Lega ce ape 


<li 


an appreciative pen.* It is from this genial resi- 
dence, the outlook from which has furnished many 
a epithet and incident of the poet's verse, 
that m, a Romance, was dated in 1889, 
a dainty volume wr the happy promises 
of Outre Mer. Old European trafition, the quaint 
and picturesque of the past, ave revived in its 

‘by a modern sentiment and winning trick 
of the fancy, which will: long seeure the attrac- 
tiveness of this pleasant volume. Tt has been 
ey a scholar's instinct with Longfellow to 
ally his poetical style to sotne rare subject of fact 
or the imagination worthy of treatment; and 


those services which he has rendered to his- 

a poots, and ancient art, will serve him 
posterity, which asks for fruit, while the 

present is sometimes contented with leaves. 

The first volume of original published 
by Loi was the Voices die Nightat Carn- 
bridgein 1889. It contained the ** Psalmvof Life,” 
the “Midnight Mass for the Dying Year,” the 
Manrique translation, and a number of the early 


—imany of its stanzas, eloquently expressive of 
oT Ula Hering 


Fy 
; 
[ 
g 
: 
2 
QE 


* G. W. Curtis, in tho “Homes of Ameriean Authors.” 








of books, and sees the world and lists 
their light. ‘To interest his imngination the 
around him must be invested with Lalor sen 


association. Itis at once his aid and his 
that he oan reproduce the choice ee 
ast and of minds with new sccessories « 
is own; so that the quaint old poets of Ger- 
many, the ie parkiinied eases 
cal vision and earnest teachings of Goethe, 1 
the Rie humors of Jean Paul, as it 

ive among us in American homes 


e, in the exquisite story of 
bon Richter 


line; has shown us nie he 


surveyed the higher and inferior conditions, 








By guardian angels led, 
Safe trom ‘temptation, safe from sin’s pollution, 
She lives, whom we call dead. 
Day after day we think what she is doing, 
rif those bright realms of air; 
Year after year, her tender steps pursuing, 
her grown more fair, 


that our remembrance, though unspoken, 


Not as a child shall we again behold her; 
For when with raptures wild 

Tn our embraces we a enfold her, 
She will not bea child ; 


But a fair maiden, in her Father's mansion, 
dod henstifl with all th sols expanaou 
0 woul's 
Shall we behold her face, 


1 Soha psn pete esa chet? 


The tte beer eae moaning like the ovean 
‘That cannot be at rest; 

We will be patient! and assuage the feeling 
Wacatser wholly aiky 


. cetatetionae 


‘THE OLD CLOCK ON TYR #TAIRa, 


cats cos dest ts Senerooat dato Te slonco dea tonbests 
“Toujours! jamais! Jamais! toujoars |” 
Jacques Barware. 


Peeper ask from thea image stress 


An ancient timepiece aays to all,— 
“For ever—never! 
Nevér—for ever!" 


i the stairs it stands, 
And te and beckous with ite hands 





The feasted at his board; 
But, like the skeleton at the feast, 
‘That wi ee nt 


of pain, 
ras i . foo they all meet i tee 
on slice 1c 
‘The ancient Ficcthee mata roe yim 
“For ever—never! 
Never—for ever!" 


ere ere for over Yau 
Where parti) pain, and care, 
‘And death, and time ahall - 
na iiss meee but never here 

‘he horo! Eternity 
Sayeth this incessantly, — 

“For ever—never! 
Never—for ever!" 





‘THR JEW CEMETERY aT MewPort, 
How strange it scems! These Hebrews in their 


graves, 
Close by the street of this fair town; 
Pe pA ree pa ai a hy 
At rost in all this moving up and down! 
| The eh eal aero ich Daal Sats aaa 
Wave their broad curtains in the ‘’ 








HENRY W. LONGFELLOW. 


Plaintive at first wore the tones and sad , then soar 


to madness 
thay to follow or guide the revel of frenzied. 


Then notes were heard, in sorrowful, low la- 
at 

Till, having gathered them all, he flung them abrond 
in 

As when, after a storm, a gust of wind through the 

Shakes down the rattling rain ina crystal shower 
on the branches, 

With such a prelude as this, and hearts that throb- 
bed with emotion, - 

eee econ theron png where it flows 

green OUSES, 

And See the crest of the 

Saw the column of smoke that rose from a neigh- 
boring dwelling ;— 

Sounds of « horn they heard, and the distant lowing 
of cattle, 


PIO-MIO AT ROAIIXG NROOK—THOM KAVANAGH, 


atate, and almost every conuty, of New 
England, hasits Roaring mountain stream 
let, ov: ey ana by a mill, encum- 
Lhe] mes ‘trees, Lehi racing, roahing, =~ 
ing down ‘angling gullies, a) nig, the 
forest with its ioe sound and freshness; the 
drinki of home-returning herds; the 


rious haut of squirrels and blue-joys, hgasirenl 
who t it on eee 
r 


Seblatay it wen to0 level: a Lied for that But the 
ighbouring town of Westwood, lying more inland, 
tthd among, the bill, had one of the fairest and full 
est of all the brooks that roar. 


no waterfall, 
, to behold it and admire, 
ir. Churchill as soon a3 


r 
i 
i 


_ by the fields, with the tall mullen 
growing at the bars; [i a ale walls overrun with 
privet and barberries; in sun and heat, in shadow 
and coolness,—forward drove the happy party oa 
Uiot pleasant summer morning. 

At length reached the Roaring Brook. 
From a gorge in the mountains, through a long, 
winding gallery of birch, and beech, and pine, lea) 
the bright, brown waters of the jubilant str ots 
out of the woods, across the plain, under the rade 
bridge of into the woods again,—a day between 
two nij ‘ith it went a song that made the 
heart likewise. a song et th ‘and exultation, 
Bio giesrc ca rpc ge sce 

6 
ee! the streamlet pa 
‘J possessed of songs such os neither the 


: 
°F 
5 
g 
4 
i 
g 
i 


5 

au 
i 
He 


5 
? 
: 
e 
iH 
if 


ze 2 
i 
i 
af 
iy 
He 
Hil; 


: 
i 
d 
: 
| 
i 


- 
i 
Hi 
ef 
R 


i me from to stone, over the little ra 
an uate "All crossed. {i iy, ay ay 
even “the sumpter mute," a» Mr. Churchill 
imself, on account of the pannier. Only Cecilia 
lin behind, as if afraid to rosa, Ccdllin, who 
nei 
before,—Ceeilia, who had the surest foot, and the 
firmest nerves, of all the village maidens—she now 
lute, seized with a tremor ; biush- 
ing and langhing at her own ti and yet un- 


It is difficult to know at what moment love begins; 
it is less diffienlt to know that it has 


thousand heralds proclaim it 
ministers 


Ag 
gag 
ir 

= 

uu 
as 

F ¢ 
| H 
qr 
itsEsze 


Fe! 
HE 

i 
i 


g 
F 
i 
Pe 


€ 


fixed in the heart of 


Distvcneinenn 
che 


i PE. 
f 
He 
is 
at 
: 

Z 
fee 
Fal 


ae 
ln 
i 
iH 
aie 
TGES 


audience with the fine fancies 


= 
i 


Eak 
F 


Eye 
i 
in 
FE 
ty 
yt 


and sagging on his father’s 
knee, with his hat cocked rather he s 


congregation at N.Y. 
was a graduate of Harvard of the class of 1839, He 
jas written several hymns which are included in 
the collection of Hi; and Johnston. In 


EVENING WALK mY TIE AT, 
The evening honr had brought its peace, 
Broughtond of toil to weary ‘i : 
« From wearying thoughts to find pa 
Tsonght the sands that skirt the bay, 
Dark rain-clouds southward hovering nigh, 
. Rerese. the mee their leaden hue, 
tin west ' 
Ita rose-light on sped threw, 
T stood, with heart more quiet grown, 
»__ And watched the pulses of the tide, 
The buge black rocks, the sea weeds brown, 
The beach stretched on cither side, 
The boat that its one white sail, 
Where the steep yellow bank ran down, 
And o'er the clump of willows eal 
‘The white towers of the neighboring town, 
A cool light brooded o'er the Jand, 
rie ti Pet ihat nloce thee d, 
ie tide er ng the san 
And yoices sounded ihe Sway. 
The Past came up to Memory’s eye, 
gent with some i gin # Seaton ine, 
many a of 
Its roseig it on eek sears threw. 
‘Then came to me the denrest friend, 
sohie sscseeade teeta aan 
0 new 4 
the earth pil 
The lips could never tell, 
I raised my 


subtler senses wero made known ; 
eyes,—the darkness fell, — 
1 stood upon the sands, alone, 


HENEY WILLIAM HERBERT, 


Mr. Heewzer presents the somewhat rare combi- 
nation in this country, where too little attention is 





CYCLOP-EDIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 





his arrival he was loyed as G 
pai pn go of. the Beg 
Townsend Huddart in the City of New 

Tn 1838, in Sones with Mr. A. D. 

he commenced the An 


scoond year, in connexion with Mr. 0. F. Boff= 
the charge of 3x, Park ‘Besa, -Weaely ne 
@ . 

ieee 
oy Mr. llerbert, who ke a 
Teas in ta igen Tn 1884 an historical novel, 
which he had commenced in the magazine, The 
Brothers, a Tale of the Fronds, as published 
the Harpers. It was followed in 1 eee Crome 
well, in 1843 by Marmaduke Wyeil, in 1543 
by The Roman Traitor, a PUMA 


nsp 
We dye riod of the publication of these 
works Mr. Herbert was also n constant contributor 
to the New York Spirit of the Times. His 

ing articles in that periodical have been 

wick Woodlands snd Feld Sports of the Unttad 

i and’ J rte 

States, The last of these extends to 
octavo, and contains, in addition to 


= 





s pertaining to Venator and Piseator, a 
ile te racers th ay ay 


== + 


_ 





ere procured, 
Grilled into ebob=—bs tants 


Ti nro is of lw wow 
candles were inserte into these temporary eandelir 


‘in 
uidhattaits Gapoend ta tendiaonts 
d in he went, without one shade 
on his bold, sun-burnt bra As 


to avail any- 
V's ruddy face and his hi vd 
“Tom! we 

| ee with arise ling him * Got epeoke 
his brother's fist, gavo him the trusty piece 

Gasliy dhappecr, ivetiog toe lights befre bis 

7 eli we 

with fe feet, and holdi the log, queens arm 
cocked and ready in a hand that trembled not—the 


ich his stout frame vanished into the narrow 
soayle and rib teed rig geste stels he 
the yieldiag rope alo: ow he 
[let apis i ha ened |—there is wrest 
—a long and feortol pause! ‘The men withoutstood 


aad infariate, the brute should follow hard on the 
invader of its perilous Inir. 


rancous thunder!—tliat wild and fearful howl—half 
roar of yell of mortal angnish! 
With headlong violence they hauled upon the 


creaking and dragged, with terrible iny 
osity, out, of the fearful enyern—his head king 
the granite rocks, and his limbs fairly 
against the rude J wpe yet still with gallant 
hardihood retaini good wea) sturdy 
woodman was whirled out into the open air un- 
wounded; while the fierce brute within rushed after 
the very cayern’s mouth, raving and roaring 
solid mountain seemed to shake and quiver. 
soon ered entered he = phashee, he 
pereeived i rf the monster; 
taken his aim sten hy Uetsbeen, them, by the 
the iy 2 candles; and, as he said, 
is bullets fairly—a statement which 
the long-drawn and painful moan- 
beast within, After a while, these 


EEF 


& 


a 
SES 


fpitel 
. 
EH 
i 
we 
: 
: 
E 
i 








had planted one ball in hie lower which it had 
shathieed Porte ert at Nar 
secon! had deiven one through thi 
the very beaia, and cut a long 
erown with the other! Six b 
did he weigh! 
piecing 
ie 
more, I trust, witicss so dread a peril so 
encountered.” 


GEORGE B. CHEEVER 
Was born April 17, 1807, at Hallowell, Maine, 
He was educated at Bowdoin and at 


Puritans, a besutifal edifice erected by a 

gation formed of his friends, a position which he 
still retains. In 1844 he again visited Europe for 
a twelyemonth. 


exay. In 
reputation as an origi 
tion of Deacon ’ eee a temperante 
tract, describing a dream in whi 
effucts of the s therein concocted were em- 

















fil ee 
att +18 
i a ae i a if Ce En th 
4 ii fgzeitt it aan z a2 ase bs23 
| a a a 4 ue a a 
S35 i He : a Hepat Fa ili 
le ee a ag 
he azg2st 3 i a FEpeery ay 7 desis 2 
ere hile Hie ti h we jiailiaae tid BH 
Pinang all giles (Ej ene tg He 
ble iy if aay au de ue fugly uae 
iis : Hi ae rie pede Sa Hae saat 
tart c i a eb Be in RULE ee 
2 HUE Haag fae, ea i 


E 
| 





a yet of 
spaling’ aasbe a Oo pnd 
aietag ae 
ohare Geow-2rops, 


Tat 
l 


ey 
F 
. 


= rp pada Spa iat Prik| A 
Gidurbedt ‘enjoying o sweet calm, and ie: pantie) 
vivifying beams 

Chrsting a J 


we sce in 


Very! such a as 
aera ay 
poetry of the and not of the artis 
ment, nor of the mere worship of natare) 


® 
rs 
4 


if 
tH 


i 
E 
Fe 
F 
2 
F 
H 


EY =] ae 
Ey 
z 
fp 
et 

& 
F 
z 
i 
é 
3 


rE 
i 


a 
iil 
f 
Batt 
‘| 
5 
: 


THOMAS WARD, = 


Tne son of s esteemed citizen of Newark, rk, N. Jy 
Beer 
Sc York. purl poenon were 
ments of the min of wealth, with the lit 

hee 
his attention, After some th the 


lume in 1842—j a Posie touch- 
ing that river: with other 2 by Flac. 
cus, the signature he had in the news- 
paper. The Passaic poems the ambition 
of Sam Patch, the modern hero of the stream; 


the sentimental story of a lover, who 
confidant of the river; a melancholy 
the death of a 


i deh of a yo Fr 


Bg 
; 
ue 
Hi 
3 
at 
any: £ a 
g tees Eps 


Ful 
i 
BEE 
" 


ele es eee ‘ 

ly murmuring praise, howe'er unmoct: 
Avera, Ciewsares fa eta eek 

Tasipid strikes the er's ear, 

we Trashly sung to 


Yet 
The the fervor 


‘And curled their cheeks with eee 
dance, 


! 


i 
iE 
i 

3 
E 
j 


ii 
ie 
tilt 
5 s 


ft 
i 
rf 
i 
j 








BF? 


ie 
bs 


troubles barred thy tide, 


Z 
: 


#2 
5 
§ 


F 


z 
- 


Nor are the notes thy voice can range, 
‘Less striking for their endless change— 


the ponderous shock, 
And thy commanding 
Bids ae all ae sound [— 
evening song 
along, 


No whispering waters far or near, 
Marmur ose to mine ear. 


born Greenland, | 
. His father had been a prin- 
pe uuadeiahls, and had 


ii ia 
Pesetaedsts see 


too for 
proved = a easy 





The forte of Mr. Neal was a certain genial hn- 
mor, devoted to the exhibition of a peoulinr 
of citizens falling under the social history des 


rear of civilization, who pies or abil 
to make an honorable position in the world, 
who fall into deeay, complaining of their 
hard fate in the world, and eking ont thelr deff- 
cient courage by a resort to tha barsragen: r 
whole race of small thrifts, inferior pre 
pede dae otal a rg it 
general lemen c e minor 
miseries and Zodial diffeulties We, met with a 
rare delineator in Mr. Neal, who interpreted their 
ailments, pics i their slang, and showed them 
an image wl 


gue other merits, will be looked after by poe 
"There ‘wera severdl variea'el Tha ae 
author's Weekly Gazette, the Democratic Review, 


picture 
ainful to be called to laugh at real 1 while 
To may bo tamed wi Okage - 
UNDEVELOPED GENTUM—A PASSAGE IN TIE LIFE OF F. Pit~ 
GARLICK PIGWICGEN, ESQ, et ol 


The world has heard much ply alee 
‘and more of uopaid debts; a brace of 


Ter a ae a 








Fy rr ne 

| i Hit eset ee 

E : i | ae 4 HN 2x 

ie ell ee Hae li nin lial 

fa ie : Teena fi! a He 

fp ae H fee ie 8 He 343 

He HHE nintliy Hiuintas ETL Hath 

jan rt ig HUGE Re Heer] Ee oad a uae 
a i Pe a SE ee 
il ile i jelaaieanudeetie Beith ele 
i Hat HAR Teepe PEE Heer rerio 

HH nie ae He a A ree rt 

FTA SE Tae eu EL 

iH} HE iEUlih Palani ita Hig Ata 





453 


oe oe ee 






: 


Coa yap peer which is a 
as tender as a skinned eat, and 
er 


brains—and pour 
M ich is alway 
titiation, and say they 


earth, as Hamlet, the bey: iver my 
# And when the lig! 

printers, set me in a fine frenzy, 

soul swells and swells, till it almost tears the 

my buzzum, and even fractures m, Card 

ve eo 


biling, 


ie 
eet 
= 

E 


if 
ie 


re “pa meped dey nae life with 


Life's a field of 


the; 

their fingers; whil proud and 
pendielar, erie dercely on, and gots noting at 
when you see ’em, there 
the editors won't publish its 


in flames in my interiors, I 
edie ation willed ax 





CYCLOPEDIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 





Was Beer 

“vids wala jnir, the gen 
‘rusty black, much the worse for wear, His 
buttoned up ‘ ‘ 
more dit 
smacFans a 
ere ra 

art ‘that. 
would not have auswered to : : 
Spunk of 6 cdlseol aeaioul Sesion tos man 
pretepet ad pti el oe ev 
that every man has as many ahirteas! m 
Shits wre pals nea boca ee Taine 
week. pr Peta, pockets—they “ 





His landlady, with 
ron, patina 


course of undevelo) ius, Petor walked be- 
Penael tant tat iki we fellal Ieounely 
behind. é 


o 

"Spat: how. can I help it Toca Bpe wien 
eating r 1 wasn't to do those fune~ 
tionaries, it would be suicide, severe beyoud eh 


, boots and shoes el 
teat I thought Pusey was a 


the countenance,” 


‘The officer will go with 
ere’s Mr. Grubson in the corner— 


first, ; 
tes Eiheve greatest 


e 
respect for you in the world, but the most of people's 


is 
ee rine het Aes er bat 
principled ogainet 1 mn Ww 
frie to Set might be injured by it Wouldn't 
it be pretty the same pr RN Grub- 
was to go with the , get me a little 


“Tm delicate Sy led Grubson; “Tm 
beg agin Vey pe pe walk aboutou 

i ‘sponsibility; every man bail his own boat, 
You might jist as wellask me toswallow yourphysic, 
or take your 4 

Alas! Pilgarlick knew that his boat was 
bailing. Few are the friends of genius in any of its 
stages—very few are they when it is undeveloped. 
‘He, therefore, consented to oj in “ Arch west 
of Broad,” until the wwhitewading vould be 
performed, on condition he were taken there by the 

‘alley way;” for he still looks uhead to the day, 
when 6 hot-pressed volume shall be published 
the leading booksellers, eutitled Poems, by P. Pilgur- 
lick Pigwiggen, Esq. 


RICHARD HILDRETH. 


Ricnarv Ticorern was born June 28, 1807, in 
the old town of Deerfield, Massachusetts, is 


Tnitarian from the Calyinistic church in ite 
Tn his ion he always stood in 
high esteem for ability, public spirit, and active 
benevolence. During Richard's fourth year his 
father removed with his family to Exeter, Now 
the seat of Exeter Academy, where 
the son was fitted for college. 

Hildreth was graduated at Harvard Oo! in 
Tlere he proved himself a s1 stu- 
dent of the ribed course, without, however, 
himself to it. Besides his ex- 


F 


at New! Massa- 
L. vs rege whee tes —_ 
close: in i- 
the setonishment ofall who ore 


4 eee Mr, Hildreth’s residence at 
‘buryport, his literary life took its commence- 
Znent in ‘a series of articles toa maga- 


:" replied Mr. Grubson; | 





started in Boston by Mrs. Sarah 
‘ot long after he became a contribu- 
tor to Willis's Boston ns ag re 
and subse- 


experiment of that writer) 
nent to doze Backinghals 
ine. Many of these. laneous 


of Texas, 
Tl] health in the autumn of 1884 compelled Mr. 
Hildreth to seek a residence at 


Spectator, as well as in 
periodicals, In 1852 it was given 
to the publio in an enlarged form, under the title 
Hognpby of iegala sae a en of asoate 

iy of a Virginia slave, son own 
Wosrepey A on su} of intellect 
and spirit is i 


gage i stares 
is day war of 1812 
story ing 












HE al Hi aes 
HG a ne gaa 
j Hl a a ee ee 
: sa Hine ht Tee) 
i ae: 2 l6 CSegeee Beer seeist bztye es = 
i — i a 7 ed 
aa | at ied une fase Teal 
| er TPE a st eis ae ef 
32: 52 gets Gapds z pti: Fee Petrie er 
UHd ane ane Gee i ti le 
sila aie i ile fay it “Luka he a it ! 
eta iy ae raat i fe in iad 
dang eaal Hien Halle Hae 
Binding 25 wine b acre ay i 
aH pit Huy a : be 
aii 


labor, carried on by 5 mind not 
5 by 


| 


E 
E 
E 


2 
F 


i 
Hy 
FE 
i 


i 
u 
i 


i 
uf 
ti 
fe 


z 
Ee 


i 


In Hamilton’s death the Federalists and the coun- 
experienced a loss second oily to that of Wash- 
Hamilton possessed the same rare and lofty 
gestion the same just balance of soul, with less, 
indeed, of Washington's severe Saaene and ere 


trend green, It the Doors in arch 
, Ornament, ant the io in architee- 
pe as same ington's charac- 


the Wi 

ter, Hamilton's belo to the same 

Sal re pe ep 
wil we ic, we have a 
fein ok by be toetsbed 1a hen'aenac be ched 
in our history, 1f, indeed, in any other. Bf earth- 
born Titans, as terrible as great, now angels, and 
now toads and ea iebaar oe 
Of the serene and sons of 
how few at any time have walked 


As an example of the more animated deseriptive 


ae 


Fi 





it 
a 


‘ime the usnal field 
com| then, chiefly by reason of 
the ii state tical feeling, of Secaaat 
occurrence, and eth s! ending without 
shed. The day hay been fixed, and the hour 
at seven in the morning, the 


mae 





e 


li 
t 


ie 
an 
f 
i 


if 


E 
E 
i 
i 


a 
i 
: 


ih 

H 
ie 

: 

2 

FY 

72 





z 
[+3 
3 


‘ar 





plate sanyo ‘until 


American reprints of . 
Discharging, and Pensioning of Soldiers, 1 4 
Sodan, Sreterelia Spee 





on the 


JONATHAN LAWRENCE, Js, 
JowatHax Lawrence, Jr, was born in New 


York November 19, 1807. 
from Oolumibia ete at 
and law wi 


He was b 
age of fifteen, 


the 
Mir W. Blsson, whee 
his ‘adwission to the bar. 


ean on 
pi tanh the Michen to Panama 


(on the affairs of the Suuth American repnblies), 
nary conversi= 


Sa Landor), and a number of : 
priest in povribe grave and irefleclive in tohias - 


ro —— 


onward 


weleom 
Mfik's Capvance Tul chacnetal - 





York. 


5 
Et 
Hi 
52 
5 


Navy 


of 
W.5.W. RB, Svo. pp. 108, Bept, 1650, 


oa let eat ae a, 
ally af gts. "Sr. ppt 





CORNELIUS CONWAY FELTON. 463 
And they bid her sip from cach dewy | Junior besides the mathematics 
: pie throng. ne nd the months of | un hen eres 
spring has come Round a : n, under the 
is bright ceubaiee charge of J. G. Chena the 
With a mlety pauionnte light that ell Gotta Beenie 
* andes apl vckel ber bats “or the noxt two years, in conjunction wit 
yee cia es mene 
J wear, 5 - 
_ Ani the love tales they should speak, D.D., Pastor ot icae of Sasa Comin 
Erna risiog hes Seal wari lores societies in Wi os ‘Mr. Felton had 
her home is everywhere; charge of the. High 
She gro the green ind. teeming earth, Genesee, New York. In 1829 he was. 


i 
oe 
BE 
F, 
f 
& 


CoE bof ot ae 
‘inane 
ili 
ina! i 
pe! 


Beg 
iL 
i 


‘Oh, the has come again, love, 
And again the spring shall go; 
And her sweetest flowers, and dead 


very flow ; 
And her leaves of green shall fade and die 
When their autumn bloom is 
Beautiful as her cheek whose tint 
Looks loveliest at the inst. 


On the darkuess of the 
CORNELIUS CONWAY FELTON, 


tomb. 


lerrimack, al tiles 
The fainily of Felton dates from an 
thefirstofthe name having establish- 
ed himself in the town of Danvers at or about the 
year 1636, Mr. Feiton was prepared for College 
chiefly at the Franklin Academy, Andover, under 
the late Simeon Putman, an eminent 


the Greek examiners were the Hon. Edward 
eget tes RECN Freee eee pieeata ley 
the Historian, then Greek tutor, 
and Dr. Popkin afterwards Eliot 
pee 
earn 
he ett ehee ees ate ani 


| 

ni 
i 
ie 


i] 
: 


i 
iH 


i 
i 
z 


i 
if 


H 

H 
a 
‘ 


Hp 
EE: 
i 
a 
iF 
ia 


Ze 

| 

z 
Pl ; 


ze 
A 

E 
L 
: 


the United States in Muay, 1 and immediately 
resummed the duties of the @ 


i Register. Of nume- 
be pee er eng eet pao 
ed an address at the close of the first year of the 
Jilfeded at te seabor's Inaugeraton ss profsor 

ie 1 as 
of Greek iiterarure; in address delivered at the 





~~ 








A glance of aught save love, on any h = 





@ 26g883189 
: A seat 
rea aii Ht ee ia al wa 
joni ie inl | Hci sil Fri iis ue! 
Hil sili § Hut iain es Hag 5258 ia 
et aeitte al tle a ae aline 28,3 “ git 
li Hi (aia : Ha eeeae nea pe 
ee miih ett | te cea ida 
aly Fi ized FS ike Be gE ali i i 
ue a 3 u eee Fd scgees f s EEE. 
mei apeatiaie nile Bie 
ee itl italia! seas es me he 
Hiner Pea aed tal pi HipN 
tt Ie Te A A 
1s He ee ae 
snug UE ET etal 
igi RE FS HAE sain ea a 
UE ea il ee a el 
f Peaauinn if slips ae 
tau 


a), 


Servant of Jens! Christian! not alone 
mage fay aaron 


all others felt 
Thy wr Jove, not meant to crush, but 


Might before the threatening clond, 
Titre avannagieg hi mea bone is eareland 


re memory; and sve bless thee 
iss ‘thou hast Sn 


his books have been of o character to excite 

Ree eival ine ahvenier al ee 
taste 5 and vy 

Hate te thee bee 


ha} 
re 
Fi 
uff 
ar 
' 
F 
g 
3 
a 





His first book, Sixty Years of the Life of Je- 
was published in New York in 1831, 

iro sg 10 volumes. ibis Pace 
Shandean autobiography ; armor= 
oy een ant a i eae 
unfinished to hold a high rank for any of 





bree behets 


Or learn teases pt im 3 
a 

dhiaw’s ™ Berwuts of Literature” The labor 

out of all proportion to the material, The 

Sie ares Sppsare to Be es eae 

and his paper the Commercial Advertiser, 

contributors to the New York American, 


He 
Bi 
ibe 
bil 
: 


ae 

ft 
F 

| 

E 


if 
it 


S 
: 
z 
& 


EE 
4] 
i ; 
al 


The next production of Mr. indica~ 
tive of tho author's study and ent 
as an artist, was of a somewhat different a 
ter, an didactic on 


jam. It was its care und 
and was received as a useful 
author's notes and exhibit his 
mojeaintiied with ae ee 
Fost fen at ectited Sagi ab ei 
e 
appears to have been a resident of that country 
in 1833, His permanent home i, we ‘ 
New York. 
SONXET—THE EXPEOACE OF VERSUS. 
‘The Queen of hovered a 


‘She touched with 
blood iv 


and manner of thinking. 
Knowing thee, then, I presume to address without 
more introduction 
i alll am to thee, and, out of respect to 
Gwin not lout thin than I rendered to Pope's 


iton’s,— 
palit brisk nee gator tage) on the wheels 


English ; 
thou oat at lo! Pope close 
hand to assist thee, %, “ 


hath yet mounted 
Up to the stars of the wise, from the bounds of the 


Green yet the world of the West, how should it 
eld matter for satire? . 

Hither no doubt, from thy Latium, the stone-eating 
the vices of mon, a8 thou in thy turn, 


Went to Pentapolis, Hero, the Saturnian age is 


ice 
ee ile cot, lives each one content 
Say ee Tred, not Lust, nor any bad passion, 


Keston Ren ob fx caninjaofie deel 8 soul hath 
a stiver. 


Meanie live? O, nothing on 
AL has no coat to his back; or B, is deficient in 
€.mues them both without charge, and somes upon 
wile re elo head B. gratefully shapes 
‘Tiel pert of pace! social union most fully 
Man is a brother to man, not a rival, or slave, or op- 


ay te compact of love, al creatures ure joy- 


Fell, fatal on post fie 
As the thunderbolt of Heaven. 


Then two hundred men and more, 
all hs reece 
ir 
eK the herp with the rs 


They obeyed hie, 
bbe aay Three cheers t! 6, 
eae ston 
en a sie 
Yor weheatletoen @ueteons 
To a vessel 
Of the gulla 


his 
je pin oh 
again th the light 


EDWARD &. GOULD. 


Tate Tuan Gouldt ni Goametont and was born at 





* Tho troops that landed to the attack wero In three divi- 
$s sarin EAUE OEE: S06) Was (ies Ratoni ent 


Hae! Sed wt i Lay sabesh et Tithe 
ee 








was born at Litchfield, Gonn., Nov. “Mahe can't live minwte |? 

was a very successful writer of tales M “delwthe me ced Teleed y 

of the sea; his fine talents having been directed | jn dsspain ext fll po my cr herp on 
of literature by one or more jedan atenree sh eet wing teint — 

dame for the benefit of his | and and rour of a night alarm; while 1 

h died of at sea, in the | also ly hear the mustering of the divisions, 

twenty: year of his age, Oct. 1, 1838. which was done to ascertain who was 

blished in de- eas tometide Reva yeek oan etna 
tached numbers of the New Mirror and the | aud clear, soared to heaven ; and again 


bluelight the darkness, revealing the 
vo. on which he was " 
ised his brothers for privaco eirctaton ie ae Senvam of the ay al 
@ tales sketches lame, | Mai ” in, * 
eaten deneaele tiren Peg maps ees ere ghar tee or 
lished by the New World BS eR “No, sir!” waa the chill reply. 
new edition by Stringer & Townsend, ew York, ship now remained stationary, with her 
1854. light aloft; but I could perceive nothing more for 
An unfinished story found his papers | some minutes; they have givea me up for lost. 
ep Rn oa 
Seanad ears Pe . ob t iaa.tu' diourese nie, amdipawsatorel hilei 
Sie ie py el oe be 
4 3 cae ” the officer of | 28 fe Te eet es 
thedeaky "bAten everybody te nr | inthe set raeg ewe sere ta wares ba Bgl 
‘Tora from iy grasp upon the capstan by a monn | iy this fearful illumination; while or ot te 


tain-wave which swept usin its power, I was borne s ; 
over the lee-bulwarks; and a rope which I grasped potter the saetngn dino 


Hi 

H 
2 
rs 

i 
: 
i 
Z 

q 
i 
[i 
i 


E 
& 
i 
; 

tT 

i 
fl 
li 
i 


h drowning seaman, the martial tones of 

aro otto, | St AE Sete irda tna 
terrible sea, the loud thunder of the trampet came 1 and the noble ship, with light, fell 
bapa og olf re the win 


weather main and braces ; 
slock the lee ones; ee ee lower 
the lee-quarter boat!" 


first plunge for the ship, whose dium outlive I voastntap aati ta 6 lord ult the wieatie ot 
scarcely perceive in Ce ee Nagel the ship, and even to recognise the face of ‘the first 
fortunately Te | Jientenaut, as, trumpet in on the fore- 





fy um ri et huh co | om whiny hr yy a be, note 
pe ary cans tne eet aah oe, vhiah ne eeGleruek" balled, the’ Uetenant” fromthe’ ‘lee 


boat « live a moment ist could I expect gangway, "are you there, my Ind!” 
faye a lingering, horrid death? o ay, ” T sh tel in ly; thongt 
— sky SR! etry tough 





wl MA ae dap ths cine fs mance, nd 








im a een ut bt 
is a ee i HEE ails oe ail u 
32 oe - 2 rs s +e i ESas 

te He if a a a 
q spe diges (tig ig2 fog ilidie! Pits Fig? f 

lf pine a UAE il Bathe 

i ayaeti one "Wy aay Wiles Ey Be =” di ialib 

H. TSGHeUaT ERUEE BE 

ui ain feet: tient de 

penalties | ae ibeeaeliiatiy nau 

fi i ee fll Sad Hibs Ba til it 

i igus nie i . cea Hal Hie | 

He “Hig PPS iis ae falln 

g Ht demunhlta Gn GH ge ae 


WILLIAM D. GALLAGHER. 471 
name of Ich Smith, sometimes James Smith, | cow ‘Ths is aoting the part of Peter Fauk in the 
in called Brown, Simon White, Bob Johnson, But Peter, for the moat part, is foul of being seen 
Tho in i shape or other; aud it matters 

see eile tekte the | satis be ete aid tie eepharcins ie ane 











ing it, merely, as he says, to Quirk & Co. ; mfp 

date him—or, not particol: wanting the article | the prodigious quantity of y had in their 

hii he reper to kate id upon; it solely be- Se ey tthe eee on ae 

enuse itm great w fine a picce of | Peter Funk, 

should gu so very far beneath its value 

hie a9 ancomann hing. fo. see the Lite. fallow WILLIAM D, GALLAGHER. 

attending an auction in powdered WituamD.G. ‘one of the writers 

brown coat, drab kerseys, ms fit os a as bortt 1808. 

sick asa mole ad ening” with Sone is ther ws tivo rand a eae 
of 


countenance, as if he were 6 to make his fortune. 
f to this country after the failure of the 
Tt is no uncommon thi Mahal aes ee 1798, in which he had taken n foeeechart : 


nothiig” The ite bidder is probubl of the same the setting of was 
vice ae pie prema, ht gcc toad after a while Ss for the of 
who is shrewd enongh in what he un “eopy.” Mr. became of a lite- 


has never in his life of Peter Funk. Seeing | yary periodical, the innati Mirror, whieh he 
so very knowing aud respectable a louking mau, seakibach far etae line Sone Ras Oe cage 
bidding upoa the piece of goods and praising it ap | trom his own pen a TU 

at every nod, he naturally thinks it must be a 

bargain, and he is determined to have it, let it 
what it will, The result is, that he gives 
cent. more for the article than it is worth; 


fi 
Fe 
tafe 
Bul 
ip 
=4 
i 
if 


= 
H 
4 
z 
4 
i 


iH 
zi 
H 
a 
E; 
i 
if 
: g 
3 
i 


: 
5 
E 
i 
& 
i 
: 


frbeerees 
le 
5 Hi 
oe 
Ha 
Ha : 
re 
ahaa F 
a 
fate : 
He | 
ait : 
> 
Hef 


i 
IH 
& 
: 
; 
5 








EEE 


FE 
BF 


z 

= 

| 
ig 
i 
i 
. 
EF 


octosyllabic meas 
Hine aftics abd charecter oota poe 


evok is another Indiau poem, with the skeleton of 
a story out of Morton’s New England's Oanaan, 
which is made the vehicle for some of the author's 
finest ballad writings and descriptions of nature, 
Another reproduction of this old period is the 
Leaves from Mar,arst Smith's Journal, written in 
the antique ght into vogue by the clever 
sot) Wi by’s Diary. The fair journalist, 
with taste for nature, poetry, and ¢ > anid 
fully sensitive to the religions influences of the 
spot, visits New England in 1678, and writes her 
account of the manners and influences of the 


time to her cousin in England, a gentleman to 





I 


z 
il 
os i 

Hil: 
oe 


5 
3 


Ee 
= 
=e 
fl 
£F 
=e 


Es 
5 


7 


F 
& 


: 


ce of the soul, which 
nd its own nutriment for itself, 

Mr, Whittier has written too frequently on oc- 
casional topics of local or ‘interest, to claim 
for all his verses the hi 
Many of them are 


[e'fae risen realy pousloeeloqeesen 

1e ne or tem- 
pered his ore: hy tha. etinptel of true 
pathos, Li Tie Tehtedate sage sees. 
sion, he relies upon the Saxon elements of 
the language, the use of which is noticeable in his 
poems, 


& 


‘HR SEW WIFE AND THR oLDt 
Gene the byieneidn pros the pel] 
Ale Gieeealla aay 
‘Twain of ye are one! 


Aisi ibeares stint, 


the arms of May 


Hushed within and hushed without, 
Dancing feet and wrestlers’ shout ; 





* Boston: Mustey and Oo, 1860, with iustrations by Bil- 





JOHN GREENLEAF WHITTIER. ATS 
from. frozen For the erown of her the mocker hath 
Sits treats Rare ecards 
Reviving Hope and they show. But w peta or the “ 
The soul its livin Leber Fynsk oe 
And how beneath the wintor’s anow Of Humanity clothed in the brightnoss of God? 
Lie germs of summer flowers! Whore my spirit but turned from the outward art 
‘The Night is mother of the is could gaze, even presence of Him ! 
ite Wana Sp ~ wade antearen retin 
chen In love and in meekness, He mov. Sue Eee, 
Behi th ol th aright I Aud the voice which breathed peace to the waves of 
ough showers the sun! a: the sea, : 
For God, who loveth all His works, In the hush of my spirit would whisper to mel 
Hieg Tels ie Hope with allt And what if my feet may not treail where He stood, 
Hor may ons best eae 
FALISTINE Gn say Ye wen mee He 5 to 
Wes at ern ee 
near 
Tides Mile af ts Leeatgt aoe het aie eae To the meek, and the lor er acs 


With the eye of a spirit I look on that shore, 
leat and prophet have lingered before; 
ide of a I traverse the sod 
of the angels of God, 
Blne sea of the hills!—in my spirit I hear 
Thy waters, Genesaret, chime on my ear; 
the Lowly and Just with the/people aat down, 
[Aad Wy wpeny onthe Gost of Hee sun als wan thrown: 


And I pause on the goat-c: 
The gleam of thy waters, O dark Galilee! 


Hark, a sound in the valley! where swollen and 
strong, 
river, O Kishon, is sw. along ; 
Wn coe ‘with Jehovah in vain, 
2a Hy seerenl grew, dack with the blood of the 
nh 


piacteets from his ae branes came, 
japthali’s stag, eyes flame, 
And the ehariots of Jabin harmlessly on, 

For the arm of the Lord was Abinoam’s son! 


There sleep the still rocks and the caverns whieh 


ran; 
Sap od dere ieee 
ar 
And the shout of a host in its triamy plied. 
Lo, Bethlehem's hill-site before me is seen, 
With the mountains around, aud the valleys between; 
‘There rested the shepherds of Judah, there 


‘The songs of the angols rose sweet on the air, 
And Bethany’s palm trees in beanty still threw 
‘Their shadows at noon on the runs below; 
But where are the sisters who hastened to greet 
The lowly Redeemer, and sit ut His feeti 


T tread where the twrtve in their way-faring trod ; 
I stand where they stood with the chosen of God— 
Where His blessing was heard and His lessons were 


Where the blind were restored and. the healing was 


Oh, here with His flock the sad Wanderer came— 
‘These hills He toiled over in grief, are the same— 
ide still 
on 


The founts where He drank by the ide still flow, 
Ke wae sire are owing wi brat 


And throned on her hills sits Jerusalem yet, 
Zone dust on her forehead, and chains on her 
3 





And the voice of Thy love is the same even now, 
As ut Bethany's or on Olivet's brow, 


Oh, the outward, hath gone!—but in glory and 
‘Me tain eivvivek a of an hour; 


outbebaaces anored = dah urting tie eamad 


cox 
Another hand is beckoning us, 
Another call is given ; 
And once more with Ai 
‘The path which reaches Heaven, 
Our young and gontle friend whose smilo 
Made iter hor 
Amid the frosts of autumn time 
‘Has left us, with the Hower. 
No paling of the cheek of bloom 
‘orewarned us of y 
No shadow from the 
Fell around our sister's way. 


‘The light of her life went down, 
ws a bhi te il 

glory of a setting star— 

Clear, suddenly, and still. 
As pure and sweet, her fair brow seemed— 
‘Hrernal aa sky; a 
And like the brook’s low her voice— 
A sound which could not 
And half we deemed she needed not 


The ing of her 
ae 


The blessing of her quiet life 
Fell on us like the dew ; 


aE ties Bes rd gs footsteps pressed, 


Sweet promptings unto kindest deeds 
Were in her very look ; 


exoeedeth 
Hath taken home His child. 


Fold her, eesti in thine arms, 
And lot her henveforth be 
Petes ayesha 
Our human hearts and Thee. 
Still Jet her mild rebuking stand 
Between us and the wrong, 
And her dear memory serve to make 
Our faith in Goodness 
grant that she who, trembling, here 
all her powers, 
Gs tien jolier home 
well beloved of ours. 


CHARLES FENNO HOFFMAN. 
Craries Fexno Horemaw is the descendant of 
— faghish Seal Jeon 34 Oe Etats of 
luring its possession e Du 
isenaerel grandfather, from Shea he derived 


the name of Fenno, was an active politician 
and writer of the federal during the admi- 
nistration of Washington, @ father, Judge 


Hoffinan, was an eminent member of the bar of 
the United States. He pleaded and won his first 
cansé at tho age of seventeen, and at twenty-one 
filled the place Legion occupied by his father 
in the New York Legislature. One of his sons 
is Ogden Hoffman, who has long maintained a 


high position as an eloquent pleader, 





Charles Fenno Hoffinan, theson of Judge Hoffinan 
asecond was born inthe wesiaed 


tie ns At Cinch peel ree 
ata Latin rane Scho in tity, a res 
Sessallr waren io 


on the wo 
| Regimen por vase appa 


His father not wishing to coerce him unduly, in- 
stead hacky isset ee 
ciel ey ern Fie So a of New 


Jersey. While on a visit home in 1817 an acci- 


hh quoted from the New Yi 
ae Eveing Pit of October 35 from 


of Arts from the institution. 
Tle next wanda Jaw with tha dele, Harare 


wi aries 
Ki A series of articles by him, ited 
a sar, added to the miteray reputation aaa? 

journ 
; In 1883 Mr. Hoffman madeatourto the Prairies 
for the benefit of his health, He contributed a 
series of letters, descriptive of its are “ 
1a ease comes temo an te 
1 a ba le of volumes 
A Winter bs ere bg een wide 
larity in cou 

Fecond work, Wild Somes in, the- Forest ahd the 
Prairie, appeared in 1887, It was followed by 
the romance of Gre , founded on the cele 


was conducted by hin with ett, Ut after the 
issne of a few numbers passed into the hands 
of Timothy Flint. He was! 

with the American Monthly and was 
for a while en in the editors! the New 
York Mirror, continuous of Vi 


mt 





a ic, eloquent strain. 


for 
bgiap article shi had ely ea 











Pfigftudt dai. bid fed dai 
bg Lae Famed th ie cs er a 
3 4 2 fests i feet Eagsc2 3 = =f33 ‘i : 
i i! ii i: i He id iia A BOE? ie an nat 
ie id 8p Ganahid Hid Baill quit 
Be a ae 
aos: s3 62 pb Sah 22 5sns238 a dass i seg 393 2523 
HE ER IEME fii HD dddsid Lhd atid att 
ell be He PEP Bae? ie ef E10 2 eG LEP el big 
ee ail tile fH dd 
He pus eeAEl caw eae ¢ diag Wilt a Wij 
fees als ea pele nn eee ae 
ees te H bala peut Ott ee He 
eet Cad ne 
ean ee ee be 
UU HOE Hire fel cot tity 1) ills lam 








£78 CYCLOPADIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 
The 


“ The world's wide enough, there is room for us all; | torial-looking mothers with 
Room enough in the greenwood, if not in the hall. nd basked 


bleak ape as we ‘i 
For why oahict efory eee eeytivewn toon" | elowg the oad eigen the ech 
Rio 








HID DRAYO—A MEXICAN LAMRST.* Lvanaey that spreada 
Bravo! Rio Bravo, phous 
Saw men ever such a sight? Peet fowl 
Since the field of Roncesyalles thither durt na sont r 
Sealed the fate of many a knight. peetog Gree arm of the 
Dark is Palo Alto's story, and to agnin 
‘Sad Resaca Palma’s rout, mid, beats it all . 
On fatal fields eo gory, looks as blue as ever the 
@ gallant life went ont. gazing from ae 
‘here ont bust and bearest now, paid fing oh a 
Left the Tears thet couched thom | the midst of their greyish olty 
‘Neath the Northern charger’s heel. j ereid eavamip ees aes 
Rio Bravo! Rio Bravol Ei peaapiys 4 pike break, Sirf” 
Since tho Bell of Koneeseales rae the 
« { his silver fin flushed 
initio ache i ati that topes 
Saw ye not while red with gore, 3 seems ve of fancies to you 
all headless quiver, we aa enc : a 


“Tt ier indecd” eT have done a a good deal of 


Heard you not the wounded coursers, anxious thinking within a circle of afew yurdewheve 
Shri on your trampled banks, ‘that fish broke just now.” 
As the Northern i oi anes Elate dn rmetintlon Oo sao 
Thuadered on our red ranks! oir 
“You look incredulous, Sir—but it’s n fet, A fel- 
There Arista, best and bravest, Tow can never tell, uutil he jw tried, in what alton 
EER SO SOLAS tion his most earnest meditations may be concentrated. 
‘On the fatal field thou lavest, Jam boring you, '” : , 
Nobly did all men could do. “Not at But seem +o familiar with th 
Vainly there those heroes rally, I wish you could tell ine why that ladder 
Castile on Montezuma’s shore, ing down to the water fs lashed ‘against the stone 


“ Rio Bravo"—" Roneeavalles,” | work in yonder corner?” 
Ye are names blent evermore, “ That ladder,” eaid the pend man, brightening 


Weepest thon, lors lady Tne, existendsof thas odes, rewited Bos ap elie 
Brave La Vege's trenchant falchion, in the reservoir, at which you stuiled just now. 
Cleft his slayer to the brain, lag gb oe 
Brave La Vega who all lonely, Well, lave seen the notice forbidding any one 
n host of foes beset, to fich ie the reservoir, Now when T mad that 
Yi ehh ee os warning, the spirit of the thing struck me at onee, 
When his equal there he met. os inferring nothing more than that one should not 
Other champions not Jess noted, sully the tempersuee potations of our citizens 
wav i 
Sleep beneath that sullen wave, steeping bait in it, of any kind; but you 
Rio Bravo, thou hast flouted know the common way of taking pike with a slip- 
An army to an ocean grave, noose of delicate wire. I was determined to have a 
touch at the fellows with this kind of tackle 
On si those Northern horsemen, I chose a moonlight night; and 
On es toward the aun, edifice was closed to visitors, 1 
Followed then the Northern bayonet, in the walla, determined to 
And the field was lost and woa, ‘All-went as T could pera re 
Oh! for Orlando's horn to rally, TAY a ea variable 
His Paladins on that end shore, clouds which obseured the moon. 
“ Rio Brnyo"—* Roncesvalles,” cane-rod with me which wi 
To this was 
‘THE MAN OF THE RIBERVOIR—A FAWTASTE PIECE. in length. 


You see some of the best society in New 


Spo ea ieteii Reservoir, any 
ber mornings, ere were two 
or three carriages in waiting, and half a dozen sena- 


© This originally {in the Columbian with 

eee erence gee 
Marfa di 

poet, Sele ras eee base 0 Axee de Bal 





H ‘ould 
Ye are names blont evermore. of the water, and several fect 
attached the wire 
| 











, eet a2 Ges Seeags SHELE FI 
ae Ae i forte aay calle Ue ed 
Uva ud je deleaic 008 LGR IG ott 
1 felines Hil i na adieattn GET GUHA Eee Bea 
i ne i ain aut sani iid ie 
Mie Hajhleas dilediu chin Gd Gute al 
5 2B Sa Seegvis is re ies A i. ee 
1 ane itil ie al Hud THRU etre 
in? 2H 20 Are Ty aE Ae 
4 atin He zu ae nul Tha Geena! Pe iH 
‘ 7 Soe Zeate Ps Sts S = ee Be ges “afe Ze 2%. 
Hila a ne fit Wat lid a Dee 
Suet ote eli es BUTE GR 
Heit dl acts Suan ore ee aul ale 

i ot HERE ie: Guipuriialal oe 
HP Ratt vali ade nada en aa ee 














se UG | L 
aa Her et ih is Hag ce ie 
init peat Hi i an ah 
ee ae 
: Het bal vita laine 
data fale a Hil ae es 
aunt as alleet fous HEE aque ae ie FI 
a Hae ae ab slit Bees Ste ie nll | eee gala 
a se By, MUR 
gee seh Hee a 
fini aid ee ai HEEL HEMLUE ual ha 
segues aii ae pity Haley ee if ip ae 
He i ue Feed) ine Hille rigeriefieg ets sal 
glad upgibs iaieenial : 
rH aE aoiee ag TP eH ‘lindig 


A3% 


2g 


8 SY ip 
iia Hl Hig 


ian 


ie ut 


a ifepege 
ng, 


a 


a 2 ie 


Ure A 
ier finee ie He ape fi 


rane seeeee sh 


















aa 7 qu peieay TN pageaysase 
tel ee 
4 flies ire i z HE 21s an He nee af 
Hi a3* fe | an eg # eee y 33 dia} ashes 
ie hi Pea ee ete Pe fill relat | 
a ae Peat et nica ie 
3 q Egeg ay 
sink Gt ~ i eats, ae Tau Hei HA 


iain 


Fey 


S 


Ft 
te 
cl 


=F 


enth 
intimate 
famil; 


elevation of 
hold of her 


zi 
i 








iil 


i 


ne 
Fat Fe] 


r 


= 
i 


= 
z 


iF 
5 
a 


? 
F 


= 


a =e 
ee 
m 
~ 
F 
: 
1G 
i= | 
a 
4 


; 
: 
2 


young, wrote verses with 


3 


Mrs, Exmonr, the wife of 
of wealth 


She early became known to the public as 4 writer 





* The following Mnes were, 


1842, by Caroline Southey, “To the Mother of Lucrotls and 





Mother 
ast printed fa the South Lit Moss for 





These wri which exhibit good sense and 


to be taken ruther as illnst Of domestio life 

and retired sentiment than as the occupation of a 

PoE bee P Five song Treads ac air i ie 
an 

tay, wines eee 


BALLAD. 
ae sat at her wheel, 


T looked on the maiden's rosy chedk, 
And ber lip so full and 
AndT to think that the traitor love 





SARAT HELEN WHITMAN. 437 


My own native clime is far dearer than all, 


Ont Ftp eh iree EA ae Reg 
‘The elms that adow my home in the vale, 
Like warriors they looked, as they bowed in the 


With the tossing plume and the towering form. 


Ye fade, ye melt—t1 feel the warm breath 
Of the South o'er the desolate heath— 
But tell me, 


Who tin dew of "Summa bong the 


“ We fade—we melt into crystalline epheres— 

Revie aeruee 
onward to Wak 

In the hollow Gotu owe band we be 


SARAH HELEN WHITMAN. 
Mrs, Warrwan is a danghiter of Mr. Nicholas 
Power, of Providence, a dircet descendant of a 
follower of Roger Williams in his banishment. 
She was married at an early age to Mr. John 
Winslow Whitman, a descendant of Governor 
Winslow, with whom she removed to Boston, 
where her husband law with eminent 
sucoess. Te was soon after attacked by a dis- 
ease which in a brief period closed his life. His 


etrk Mos Ohio 


Whitman published in 1858 Hoursay Life 
and Other Poems, a few of which are ti i 


QUENT OF THR KOEL—-NHOM THE OURS OF LIK, 
oe ee See, eee 


727 
=F 
i 
ii 
zi 
ss 


i 
i 
; 
i 


oy 

ree 

if 
i 
£2 


wail, 
‘That shriek that made the orient pale: 
Evohe!—ah evohe! 
‘The mystic burden of a woe 
Whose dark enigma none may know ; + 
prinal fhroe” 


‘The primal curse—the 
Evohe!—ah—evohe! 


‘Wearied with man’s discordant creed, 


T sought on Nature's to read 
Life's history, ere i¢ ahrined 
‘Her essence in the mind ; 
Intent her secret laws to trace 

In primal solitudes of 

From her first, faint atomic throes, 
To where her orbéd 


In the vast, silent spheres that roll 
For ever towards ‘unknown goal, 


I turned from dull alchemic lore 





aif 
ul 
Hs 


ue 
i f : 
pl 
He 


; 
Al 
a 
it 
iy 


if 
1 


The dread anathema of Desth? ae == 


Its dark cone ¥ 
Into outer glooms away !— 
From the sad, unsated quest 

Of knowledge, how T to rest 
On her green and silent. 1 


7h ae : 
And leaned my ear on Nature's heart, 
To hear, far from life's throng, 

The chime of her sweet 1 : 


Life, love, and 
. . . - . * * * 


it began to stream y 
aha cloud-rifts, like a dream 


accreta of that eldest lore 

‘That seems leas to reveal than to rest 

* Pluck thou the brepac ae 9 - 
at 
Renounce the heresy of death :. wm 





i 
: 
¢ 


He 
Ez 
i 
: 


& 


f 
FE 
i 
ee 


FE 
it 
at 

iby 

i 


fips 
He 
i 
E 
ij 


The ‘but tarried for a night, 
Then plumed its wings for loftier flight.” 


e 
And at thy threshold wait: 
‘Would’st thou love's holiest guerdon win— 
Arise, and let the stranger in,” 

“The friend whom not thy fickle will, 
But the heart within thee, still 


- thou nll things and believe; 
ane in chip ike tray aphieya ‘ie 
simplest mandates soul, 

‘The simplest good, the nearest goal; 


* When love shall reconcile the will 
fore my Faigle te fulfil, 
‘The burden of its eroas to be 
Farth ahall to equilibrium | 


“Thon the Life-tree’s golden 
No saa vieddi hasta aca 


one, 

Lore is 9 —_- 

— F than = 
“Can the child-heart more 
eee ee ees Gmail tivo : 
Can the man-child forfeit more 
era ey Ue ey " 
aIts dey alpen getnaneOR 


“Guard thy faith with care— 
M tues slumber there ; 
the within the sou 
Holdi in control: 
Faith ehall walle the ¢ water— 
Tn the an strife 
ee ee avatar 
Faith shall trian ah 


It is not found by the garden 
it sae era tall 


And children love, io the senson of «pring, 
To wateh for its earliest blossoming, 


Tn the dewy morn of an April day, 

When the avi ge lo way 
When the sod is sprinkle with tender green. 
‘Where rivulets water the earth, unseen, 


leaves of the birch-trees throw 
ee on the turf below, 
When my flower awakes from its dreamy rest 


catch the of ite qui 
iLike light thet Teongtrnebeany thy. 


memory there, 
Thou recallest the time when, a fearless child. 





Ai} dl i r) ite ‘ 

Atl + 
Henry Reed was born in Philadelphia, July 11 

1808. Ho reccived his early Selec ta 


Sel eeted 5 exes Hoe 8 ethene 
(res Saree eae in Raitt to 


ashort interval, he was, in the year 
Assistant Protessor of En lish Lic 


these college dati in the 
left America for pel visit to 


dates, Professor 
Reed’s marriage in 1834 to Elizabeth White 
Bronson, a hter of B: White, we 
have completed the external of tus life, 
aa - fow eae ae he gave Gee] 
wo) diligent and 0! a thorongh' 
cultivation in the best schools of English litera- 
ture and criticism, of unwearied habits of indus- 
try, he would probably, as life advanced, have 
further served his country by new offerings of the 
fruits of his mental discipline and studies. 


b brother, Mr. B. ‘ith 
eer SS 
Chaucer to Tennyson. tastes, mental 





is 


3 
i 

Be 
By 


ye. 
i 
a 
i 


rie 
a 
ate 
ie 
arth 
Ae 
aT aes 
Bipite 
SE TEREii 


SEE 
aes 
= 

i 
i 
ue 
lk 
da! 


z 
if 
ab 


Tast associations were 


Professor Reed edited several books in com 





© No, 2M, Ang. 21, 1692, 





ae eat. 

a ripe pate 
c # ut Haan a 53 
fi 
Ph 





z 
He 28 tae tne $3 in 








Sc Wut HHS eat 1 wy 17 
‘ae He 1 ‘ ns ae ay 
Tisan Lks wil ris bari ig | 
Tres aim TH Aa naa ui 
Sgtieiscicgin | Sites £3553 222 
ie an ial Heil Bate i 
Hie ald C is. LF ih giant FE 
an, HME GG (Ake! 














§ ee taut ie HUY He ial Hg ee ea 
Lie Bil ees Tae ata qj Hi 
: ee [es i AGE ea 
Hi friastl juli ; a i ict ie lilt 
a aE ee eo an 
. EL Sie TET Etre ie 
ia ne a Huey ‘ah cee fll 
tt LE 
auld ie rt fi st 2 ike a fie Hi ip Elin j 
i i i Ip : pes a little icin ak al 
unis z te at ire es ci ne (ii te i 
pecan ue | a Ht aa Hint 
veog iain aie | ae 








with ere eda tis f or, | 

In Rome, sch ie Song ‘in the mind, | 

Selita by h of . Many 
e ruins in are nck RC EAF ced for effext 

opie Clerc eat hall 

They are often in positions, and bear 

the shadow of disenchanting The tide 

of population flows now in channels from 


i 
Hl 
Hy 


Ht 
i 
iH 
: 
2HE 
HH 


A 
L 
eS 
i 
i 
Pp 
5 
Lo a . 


i 
l 


se 


ment; for though it was merely a point of 
ure, withoot the glow aeerertke thers 
we not have quicken rine hey energies into 
Seutt, in hin Introduction to s ay 
described with much truth as well as humor 
manner in which Captain Clutterbuek became inte- 
rested in the ruins of ta erat a 
life, and how his hea! 


Way cass GREE ec, 

Every young artist dreams of ¢ as the spot 
‘where all his visiont may be realized; and it would 
indeed ont eee a greater degree than 











_pereeived. 








not picture, monu- 
ical priebarey otbeciio pal ire) exten en 
Historical interest. And at 


il 
Here 
23°33 
saF 
ize 

BS, 2anb 
ee 

oREE z= 
Hau 
a2> # 
ay a8ie8 


z 
3 
= 
g 
FF 


have as individual an 
crowd, 


brown eyes, and broad, low forehend:—beg- 
gars with white beards, whose ne pee 
resquely in the breeze, and who ask alms with the 
Roman senators, md the walls are 

the with their grounds an lens, like land- 


scapes sitting for their pictures; tod then te in 





Or an anthem 
Shall be rolled on the shore 


Gather no bloom for the heartless tornb,— 
“oy leaped Hered 
sy metre its solemn gloom ! 


juent poems contain many touching traces of 
Shetr teecootmees 


| PAnnuk ology Gant L 


Miss Gould's after a favorable tion 
in nveral pili were cleo In lume 
in 1832, By 1835, a 
and a third appeared in 1841, In 1846, she col- 
lected a volume of her prose enti- 
Oe eclt's poems all ‘and simple 

poems are all / 
in subject, form, and expression. They 6 natu- 


You. 1.—82 


Some of her poems were for 
she nablished "The Youth's Coronal, m litle col 
lection of verses of this : 


‘Tam raosT. 
The Peet Now i uhall be tee of eke, 
Png ee pe lel ee od 
So (ee pa ye 
my . 

wind aod the snow, the hail and the rais, 

oH eo much bustle and noise in vain, 
he 


Fis 


Pps 


rest; 
lit on 


oft 
Fl 
if 
Hr 
a 

¢ 


ob 
zk 
as 


aioe ecnslhlshingas there yore Bowara ted rom, 
fe hae ‘ 
There were bevies of birds and swarms of bees; 

ities with temples and towers; and 


All pictured in silver sheen! 
et did one thing that 
ie 


sheet reli 
ie 
had forgotten for hina to 
“ Now, to set them ia 
Tl bite this basket of frnit,” said bh 
“This costly pitcher I'll burst in three; 
And the glass of water they've left for me 
Shall ‘ tchick!” to tell them I’m drinking!” 


‘MARY DOW. 
“ Como in, little stranger,” said, 
As she at my 


half-open door, 
While the i apd ho 
Just reached to the basket she bore, 


“A pepe bones es rice; 

think you'll not find it. too much ; 
‘They're tied up 40 even and nice, 
And ready to light with a touch.” - 


T saad ie aerae at, Hieie irke” 
“"T is Mary,” said she, “ Mary Dow.” 
And care! ae ep = 
That played o'er her delicate brow. 

¥ ney daca nag 
ie 

When she hears the wind blow and sea roar. 
“ She sits there at home without food, 
Beside our poor siek Willie's bed ; 





Se etyenes 
‘da think they hs 


: 
| 


ais 
ae 
Pye 
patina 
srgé Eee 

E a 


egg 
g 
F 
i 
He 
i 


: 
i 


ata recaps i bit ere nn knows, 


To-morrow will the storm be done ; 
Then, out will come the golden sun: 


Before his in ig streams, 
What now a cortain peers, 
And life, it ever ; 


with 
‘ths ahade and shine !—It stows it enowa! 
‘THE VETERAN AND THE CHILD, 
“Come, grandfather, show how you carried your 


70 ies Meld sehesebiSaneie's traadons wan van 
Orbe sword, which you say was new 


‘Wha jetreve tolceetabed) and led forward your 


men; 
And tal how you at with the bala whising by, 
ernest 8 woe Sasol yes. fF to 








“Dost now ask me, child, since thou hearst where 
I've been, 


Why my brow is eo furrowed, iny locks white and 


Tr hl gece ae 


cepa abe so quick? are the tears going to 
Cosel lean thy young heed) oa thy gresduniers 
eart 


Tt has not much to with the 
I feel thus to © big: ede py 


But when in ‘a bosom it long has 
A man, thou ‘It recall, what, a i reper 


‘IYMN OF THE BEAVERS. 
Our Father, to fields that are white, 
, the sickle we bear, 
In praises our voices unite 
thee, who hast made them thy care. 
‘The seed, that was in the soil, 
We left, with a ief 
In One, who, beholding he til 
Would crown it at length the sheaf. 
And ever our faith shall be firm 
In thee, who hast nourished the reot ; 


‘WABI finksbed the Dade und te eit 


Are to fall: 
at pep ce 
maker and giver of all. 
‘from the hills, 





* if Bt 


etal | 
fal yi 
anh 


= 
. 





ae ll 


ue a Rie 


Sueligii 


Hf at ray 


He fe 





Reh, 
nie Ly tt, Heals 
nee {ip da ltl eh 

ea i Ae TUL 1a 
ass efis¥ fil rl HT 

i fae Pe eave sau gett 
Ba Fepisqessgee | ieee 
a s i au : (dH #1 | ih 
as A a sq 7 Iie i 
ae Hens dof het Testun! | Ban 
Delfin fil ata eiecaea | a 
ia re He oF HE aay aii ie 
ABTA ee Ear tie 
Haein ae PP? sy | Bee 





























mi HIRED He le 
TU Ure ARE Leen 
a Bemiu een a lea 4 
pana ies eee Plast, i 
He ead oer HG AEE 
Aes et 3s 3223 aa: ee Husa uel 3 i His ie te 
Te eS aa 
a \ Ae Hel tee aE Hall hii 
t aL ule icll 
Lalli ie ela 
selnille fe Hale wae ae 
as ie a fais: ii u 26 i 
| 2e29ee sist bey Ale i: a 
EE 2 EE 2453 ina vere 
lait }URgHEE Hi 


¢ 23 hr 
eee 
i i 


He i 
at Hag ony scttre gultghis HL HE 1 {ibe 
lb iu aut a Hie Halt Hie i : a 
gis: z ia ali 334 seca u fae a fae F th i 
pau Uleliug ite § wba tit lini 
Ure es SE ba 
Apap bat 2a fess # sallae: 5 fiat sie : E 1a 
Haple #1 A Bh a ae TT mn ati ani itt ay i 
Be a ee ae 
Dieaen aie Heat Pied apap || 
5 id Hi He Fe i pina puia Hi paeal x 
Sein Hal rs aptinanagel¢ lid isebigite 
i ine Hi a A vee ij Helin niin! 2 jal ae 
fii wal rae a iL Hears i Hat ut uu} 
Zeess M a3 28 |\s 
3 ae HH al bua et ll dle os aa583 nA 





snl ue mie ial 


on 


‘Der 29, 1858, 





& 


FREE ie 


AL Hote i 
ee i hi Gi ity ifs ia uth tg Hel 4 

abate es iar ne 
we Ha Brrr BELA id ‘deer eau 

ie i fia a : HiT a 

i Ho ft ib ae eae ; al 


e 





/“ 1 NE file H Pillay Ha Ho Te jl et ii 


2 aS, . 


— 
* 
‘HAWTHORNE. 
which Archimedes had ; 


al 
Ht a 
ck i Tey FF i te el ult eid Hi HE WHHE oe 
i ae 
3 f es i.s 
Seen: MMA Tae RATE 
TT Ee eee dl 


basse . <=) 
Scarlet Letter is a pyschologi 
The hardiest would never venture 


to callit a novel. It is a tale of remorse, a study 
of character, in which the human heart is anato- 
mized, carofully, elaborately, and with striking 


in the pillory and wear henceforth, in token of her 
shame, the scarlet letter A attached to her bosom. 
She carries her child with her tothe pillory. Its 


separa! 
in Europe, preceding him by ship across the At- 
lantic, reappears from the fovone whiter he has 
been thrown Steger on his arrival. He was 


guilty and a fiendish revenge. The 
of the town, aman of a devout 
sensi and warmth of heart, is the victim, as 





license in the treatment characters and in- 
cidents of his comin This license is in the 
direction of the \lities of the in fa- 
vor of a bys an 
acute analysis may be tout, and the truth 
fn fone te prefmnten of pherasneedis aati 8 
in fact, for : 

and of for that which is allied to the 
darker elements of life—the dread of 


the 





in and about its melancholy shelter. 


ven Gables, one for each 
sin, may be no unmect adumbration of the cor 
‘soul of man, It is a Tartu 
some eclipse of the sun, 
with Grea dark ound on and send- 
ing its turrets heavenward, as rod 
transcends its summit, ge si super- 
val, Every darker shadow of buman life lingers 


raed 
ns allied to criine,—pride in its intensity, 


| the descendi, 
pw om. ‘ion shes maps 
necessities of the humblest 


Tiga ademem gemma 


O’er all there hung the sna tant 


‘A sense of 


i 


of a 


with its steely and unrelenti: 
stones, tou to be soriceel to Dk bee aE 

th. withers, and the homan 
eres are 


cold: and as 
iin tse owe 








country 


3 


have left the Old House, 


= a yee, 


be the desoendant of the w 
of the curse—marries 


ie Hane 








Wet : 
Fi eerenai - Hy i ft ii : pr ne 48 i si ae 
ue ial On 3 lara i He oe J ase a oe 4 
a i = a £ ie Hee af un: RHEE He 
ii fee Hil a ys Hae 1 pal a eH u sili 
33 37 2152 Es Hall ni bat i368 .3 2 ize f le Ah = 
TEA eae ee 











tat a 4 
i an rat 
uit a Be Hl He cel 
| oe due Le 
eagesatsee =85. fete ath Z el As 
il sey nt SEH . He 
i! Hae $2 uP Bita aie eu! 22222 Ge aati Ay 
tg e522 ; ag istic PAE Te wigted 225402 bss eu 
i iF F ai i! r fl fi HUNT BUH BI an bail i 
al Hii in Be 1 Heese THAul 
: a ¥i32 i ui | 233 Hai Hea! 
HBR ; ATR HEM ab 
a 4 saa aH pH hat 
saute bi Ae HRB: ae 
a a sulle He eau : Huu 
alesis Bee 
.t Er 


iii Ho. af li itp 
oe ee 


i aie 


2 
- 
s 











. a 
wifes eaad ie 4 
ce Ue il Hi ; 
L. 2 ia ea fp Hae Hie fp Het cl i 
Se £ ay Ee 232 
| faut nal Fue le aE i ida iva ie + : 
Re Sea ate ser 
blag Ee bal eat Gate ie Aue He 
= ke Hie HE aed ET BU “: PRUE HE ay 
ig Greats alida ia alain 
4 Heit Lt a : auf 5 ig}ia3 meee i ie wi if ii 
33 Raat Se gP ae3 az nae age tial 1 Eh He = j i 
(i eT RU ei an ha 
28383 ay Hae Feet eubiel bate abe an HEY Hue 1g 


E87 
sue 
Sak: 
Ege 
qs 


nh tal 


ES ae vibe anti Hu a te 

ul = <9" =269 e S a Bees ate © Ss g gages 
egies Gein ices Get aie 
i mitt deatann Habs | ae 
ia i ated Bi Ly alae 


: : FE fistt otis ii au ms el FL 
Hada Hee edule dln 











atte 
%: 


. 
men 


a cate 
paue ae a Hane rites a 
Ce fy on a aTMIE in 2 ) 
ante i eel 





tn tall 
ki EERE i HH HEU puts 





Sei cirt Gites 


CRAB 7 re sae seis ee 
liens eee ucaf tal 
ie a1 ize Are rari all 

ee Ha eeoie ne 





oe fount suey isan ‘I 


ee He wg 65252! 28225521 fo8sa, Bites cate 
ule Hh anata Ge 
Tail GH ily th Had sie ie it aba 


a fig ALPE fis . 


isnel Gaaie 














quant ui is fan i agate ig Beal 
i 3 : 
aH a i ae af cea uh a 
Oa ia 
tae Pate z sflicds 4 1 al 83 Eee df Hi 
lis eal ii Rae dled itl ene 
Hey wed PELE Cae ete Cred Fi HE fess 
Hao Hey eauasiitenatt Pap eae 
Le Hl ee sie *lilintutndiiss did THLE a 
Ace gssenenne elestendyy seazeesrTs STE iEE tHeHRTtT 
Can i flute Hee ae Higa and alae 
sree th aaa ae Wate 
eet ria fee peed ia deni oan ENE 
weliatiiin bie RE CUT a iid eligi 
ane et Nadie 8 Hilfe ralbiaer EEG 
re a veitetlieeeal tu delat IIT 
g Asin ESHER SEEM OTT Hepeenece aE 








“Tei Men ee 
ae ee qi 

ke i fee Hee fe i lle id 
shi HEcaulle a iiltial ‘ 
ut i uy Hy ie phe a Feeiat: i: HEE 
Hi At ne E ial Tey Hie EL eee i f 
ie BAIA i eg Hi ii ilier ile THEE 

ee Haste Rete aiiees Gee aia |i 
Hpi Ete pedis frat: eer sik ai HE i ; 
SE EG aE ialiil & 
ei aa elit) FUMED, piles ete cea 
sHile Hel fg wat rH Herre ye 
Lae Gat Mee 
Bint pele ital iad tg Huan ‘ 





Yi i? 2: ¥y, 
RR am 
= ih idl aj ratins = ap 
= Ni i ant saat A 
OR c . 
; 32 i 2 Sa33 = ua 2 
i . HUTT Pee LeU 22 
Tega a as uc 
fu ea ined nana ia 
ue it ial i Hiei tel anal tel 
fli Ra nel LEG Relaill aks 
Lert athe ae EEE wa 2337 EGE HL 
tena ee lane ed erates 
mS ert Reena MEME ar LILA te 











metal pious. hen Ok 
when | 
sion thi ea FAA of 
the wax-illaminated 


The as, whose fingers touch 
ASA ousand chords Me raite 
‘The dark Italian, loving mueh, 
But more than one can tell; 


Our own sweet Yankee girls? 


And what if court and castle vaunt 
Its children loftier born f— 


meine Eng 

ie ters ie i 

Our freeborn Yankeo wile! 

By every hill whose stately pines 
aver their dark arms 


ia) mani and walgihasiairening ah 
God bea obreckeagidilie, cn 


OLD TRONSIDEA 
, tear her tattered ensign down! 
ng has it waved on 
And many an eye has danced to see 
ie 
rol le 

ail bare the aaabeaW reet => 
‘The meteor of the ocean air 

Shall sweep the clouds no more! 


Her deck, once red with beroes’ blood 
Where knelt the vanquished foe, 

When winds were h o'er the flood 
And waves were wi ‘low, 

No moro shall feel the victor’s tread, 


Or know the eon kice 
The harpies of the shall pluck 
mri a 


at oi eee “som 

PapRi rr tes “a 

And ive her to the god of sorts— 
The lightning and the galet 

You. m.—33 









Go where the ancient pathway guides, 
See where our anlanawe 


Who leave their children free} 


Look where the turbid rainslrops stant 
— eiptapareae jaare, ad 

he orest, brand 
Of honored names were there ;— 


ie srerel ap wt — Ti gc verte of antl gone 
bd dre Er eb tae Otjopees aaj; and jolly nights and cerry Chris 
Eee ie oan RE See and jovial rece, bit honest, brave, 
ight Som ene aa Doe That tipped sed thefr ladle in the punch when this old 
"San Pe fap hg Repcahn gabon eg Wel reir 
“ What could this low creature do cient tale; 


tree, 


wees Senet 
Da: beret 9 CN jis jacket, and around 
His ba ie ed it with stars, 
Here will L lay mo on the velvet grass, 
‘That is like ling to earth’s meagre ribs, 
And hold communion with the things about mo. 
Ah me! how lovely is the golden braid, 
That binds the skirt of night's deseending robe! 
The thin leaves, quivering on their silken threads, 
Do make a music to rustling satin, 
As the light breezes acheter dawg nap. 
Hal what is this that rises to my touch 
So like a cushion? Cau it be a 1 
SE injured flower, 
do flout us with ;—but yet I love thee, 
rose, Wray ina ture 
se iky ener lebron 


ped of his gandy the we . 
maltese Perdlp alts soba pede 
Is that a ewan that rides 1 
O no, it is that other geutle 
Which is the in Of our noble calling. 
I well remember, in my early years, 
eel Sekt 
Thave a scar upon ol eu Nr 
Which chronicles the ambition, 
My father was a tailor, and his fathor, 
And my sire’s 


the water! 


tailor 
Tt happened J did see it on a time 
When none was near, and ap tines arpa 
And it did burn me,—oh, most fearfully! 


Ttisa straighten out one's lim 
And I son dante fo te fred counter,” 


feavag the eee wert 
The breakiod thes Ladin sleching shear, 
And all the Beedle that do wound the 


| 
| 


| 


| 





“Tras hammered an Antwerp amith, whose arm 
And pow my hen bstween the strokes, for foar his 
He wiped Unlaea quaffed a eup of good old 
1 le. 
"Twas purchased by an English squire to please his 
bad the cherubs, and conceived a longing for 
And oft, as on he aneieal Uae eel tga 
“Twas filled with caudle spiced and hot, and handed 
smoking round. 
Bat, changing hands, it reached at length a Puritan 
Who Civis®s, tallow Timothy, and take a title wine, 
Bak beted punch and prelacy ; and so it wns, per 
aps, 


He went to Leyden, where he found conventicles 
and achnapa, 


| And han, of -soenae, porno: ease orton tae 
| With tages sek.dni. Miky Aen ata Rene 
souls and more,— 
ti all the furniture, to fill their new 
To judge by what is still on hand, at least n hun- 
je by 
eee ee the night was clos- 
Whee i Mls Standish tok the bow aud filled it 
Tree in stood and stirred the posset with 
e 
And all his stued, at, ‘about 
he iis ly men sos vee nearer 
He poured the fiery Hollands in—the man that 
Raver feared? 
Hae ae ee oe 
Anaove bya one the musketoors,—the men that 


fought and prayed,— 
All pea ho per Gear 


man 
beget. ny Pe affrighted from his nest, the eereaming 
en Pequots ringing whoop, the soldier's 
nd eee bseaeralhaataed these achive 


kith and kin; 
“ Rum from the white man wheo you ind he smells 
of Hollands gin 


A ded gum md fy or hal rad 
A thom rah Matoned down each litle ee 


When once the bow! was filled, but not in 
ra oT caveat hohner 





= a ie Hi ES | 
i a oe ie zai a Hla 






2 
BG gecu | 
ae a an 





aes ee 








an rp ilk ee ae wil 
Bae i if ile le ite 
iy ji aul ht 
1 Abd i sil ne bests: 12 Mews 
5 Fah ip its Henle we a ihe 
Annee i) Yenc ia Gl gam 
fie ie x fibhes Hits Beak iin! 
anit a | eal bjeaitiet taal 














aa tL 3 geaeaeids pEa2 
ele Beli eile 2 iG = He nae aie ee “i 
é Hie | i a aa H BE 
ae a Hs ce 
apli teed: i posed 4 geet yehs: 
HE ei eile ibasa fee F eld te 
ei ts Peril 
Au i ies a4 3g s2d422 if 7325) 
ipa ae eel 
eel aie i 
fil ens SATE te ea 
cell i i Hi i a jt egeulla 
Aiea el vate 
zi Tae 33 4, sy ii ifs rae 
tu ae Hdhltiat Hii: intl Huu 


aes 


Ste nul qf 
HE Hen tetas 


Hid 





zeae 
Pa if 
bal ij aad 
ues 
Hee 


H nile 





a 
i 
i 
H 


eo 

3 

cf 
HE 

is 

E 

E 


| 
: 
i 


set 
fF 


E 
i 
Ht 
Bi 


O thon, the leas of the’ resting Gore? 
Taek ht pices pees 2 and on the lawn 
pit ae 


z 


sunny sonth ; 


crowns thee with bright lea 


eye, ! 
So it gaze with richer love and light 
pos hia beaming brow: If thy swift ight 
on some bil 


Of vine-hung Thraee—O, come, while night is still, 
And greet with heaping arms our gladdened sight! 


Lo! the small stars, above the silver wave, 
Come wandering up the sky, and kindly lave 
‘The thin clouds with their light, like floating sparks 
Of diamonds ia the air, or spirit barks, 
With unseen riders, phasing in the sky. 
Lo! a soft mist of light is rising high, 
Like silver shining through ‘int of red, 
And soon the queenéd moon her love will shed, 
Like pearl mist, ou the earth and on the sea, 
Where thou shalt cross to view our mystery. 
Lo! we have torehes here for thee, and urns, 
Where incense with a floating odor burns, 
And altars piled with various fruits snd flowers, 
And ears of corn, gathered at early hours, 
And odors fresh from India, with a heap 
Of many-colored poppies:—Lo! we keep 
Our silent watch for thee, sitting before 
‘Thy ready altars, till to our lone shore 
yy chariot wheels 

Shall come, while ovean to the burden reels, 

And utters to the aky a stifled roar, 


TAREWRLL TO NEW ENGLAND, 
Farewell to thee, New England! 
oocttgeta tale Serr 

e e 7 

and Rowleyatits ot pias! 
Farewell to thee, brave Merrimac ! 
ar heart of blue! 

a ut returning, 

Phat all, like thee, are true! 
Farewell to thee, old Ocean! 
At iether sees waves! 

Bun constant motion, 

Against the granite raves. : 
Farewell to thee, old Ocean ! 

I shall see thy face once more, 


er i ek - 
Few toes I leave behind: < 
Ibid toull, before I go, 

A long farewell, aud kind, 
Proud of thee am J, noble land! 

Home of the fair and brave: 

motto evermore should stand, 
¥ ror honar’s grave . 
Whether I am on ocean tose, 
ool tid at pea eat" 
‘That I'm New Eoglaudls son, : 
So, a health to thee, New England, 

Ina a eu ek nape 
Farew ‘ew! 
seakepioeeetha ieee 


ADRIAN ROUQUETTE. 
Tur Abbé Adrian Rouguette, an ecclesiastic of 
the Roioas Dethalis Daioh par te ok Labs 
ana, is of mingled Europea merican parent- 
age; his father, Dominigne Ropquette, being a 








JONES VERY. 523 
Franco ve brother of | I hear the voice of woodland song 
Pattee also an author, betel poked: benremciee cacighibt yee 
Orleans, educated there ‘ borne along, 
posed is classical stadies at Nantes, in O'er the dark rock the dushing brook, 
Seuwile levee he muiner ad ten eeeeae tae | _ kad Moca cnciow wery nol, 
wi aut on set 
reek tae napa taro Caters) ad aoe 1 thy charms ae 
ny Fair rt! thy | e 
Fra ra hor he ed ae ‘Touched by the wither rr en 
of poetry, Les Meschactb'ennes, and was en- | And the mus iar ope i ah 
couraged by Beranger, Vietor Barthelemy, | When my voice with the chime ; 
and others. M. Rouqnette has led the life of @ | But in my heart thy cheek of bloom 
traveller or of retiremen aril eee Shall live when smile has fled; 
pone bathe: Obehare Netlone which proposes And, rich with riparia 
to hin French and English, as he writes | Shall o'er ber grave thy shed. 
ease in both languages. ‘There shalt thon live and wake the glee 
JONES YERE peers ‘cael dower! L think of thee, 
Is the author of a volu;ne of and Poems i fect n to seek 
Pablished in Boston in 1838." Ir contains thee oe ip ge nice p 
les in prose on an 
and a collection of soll pa Pers gery! = 
Seenticn ics itemanii ther oetiooe t | ‘Thou lookest up with meck confiding eye 
and emotion, They ure expressions of the spirit- pen the ed smile of April's face, 
nal life of the anthor, and in a certain metaphy- tt oe pom bce by 
sical vein and simplicity, their love of nature, and | Thou" Wad wisety ttn thy tatheamaped 
sincerity of utterance, remind us of the medi- More {holi then Taradl’s wisest 
tations of the pinoy and plows writers Such faith was his whom men to death betrayed 
the old poetry of the se As thine who hear'st the timid voice of 


ages to . Upon the death of this parent 
he pre] and was « gradu- 
ate of Harvard of 1836, w! he became for 
awhile a tutor of Greek. “ While he hed this 
office,” G “a rel enthusiasm 
took of his mind, which gradi pro- 


in him, that his friends 
bridge, and he returned 
to Salem, where he wrote most of the poems in the 
collection of his writings."* 


‘70 THE PAISTED COLUMMINE. 
ht image of the early years 
wie wed 7 
‘And life's dack th of cares and fears 
_ Were swift-winged o'er my sunny brow! 


act 
With fairer hues first traced lies busy: hen. 
The morning's blush, she made it thine, 
Ths mora’y bots Sroamipehetenee ie tins 
ey ac 

Each fond-remombered spot she bade me sea, 
Tsee the hill's far-gazing ad, 

‘Where gay thou oddest in 








is 
The crown of that gilds each mortal brow, 
And from ates oat ‘ee soalting fade : 
The heavens aud earth —their wi falling 
now, — 
Fast crowding on, each thought asks utterance 
strong ; . 
Stornvlifted ‘waves swift rushing to the shore, 


On from the sea they send their shouts 
Back through the eave-worn rocks their 


Ana Ta hia of God by Chest mad tee 
Start from death's to Eternity. 


par, 
Day! I lament that none can hymn thy praise 
Phew Tee aly Lop OPS 
Yot une like tive their Maker's ca eta 
Great fellow of my being! woke with me 

Thou Tas cathy dassling salen of te 





v4! 





anil 


hn i 


snegety Bee 
i 
Fist 33 


1 3. 
fos: ce eley 


a 
a4 £2 











a ETE Hoa a | 

f I HE HEP HE BEEN 
é Ag25B G507GD CI21;9}8o F2EGseT Te4Hes! pea paseada i725 ge=E 3 
He We aed ate a 
F Hay a in i beta ne Bug! il ' H | 
alent earl t ila ide He ae 
deci y aie FBE iit fee i : ils 
waaay uibieiueteiens Ht db ay 
shies : a sit 3 fre rae bel uigrtste 
ST TPMT Rar vata ae : fae 





on the ground 


him. ae beet 


848, their child, Angelo, Pape SS 


4 


Mech, 


ct 


<= 


of the revolution 


mountains, 


a 
1 


22 2 
ia i} 


the 
fortunes 


ber 5 
wie 


atl 


82 





Le i a3 i digg i 
iE i iu aaeulh 
83d mai ma un 
i rae i ate 
if uu eA 








aE Hay 


Gi 2 33 i EE Fe 
aan a Le “a 
nual ie inatly ; 
jerill il ie 

pia ae ae an 3 
HEED ena 











3 SG f aabpesepya greapeny fasgagyepiiess 
A PEt ares eg rae gee 
; Pr Hg iis Tat #225 rE] Bap AE iF] 
mde Geant delet ee 
SHG sbRdiel lid eae FH Pay Hu 
PEL | Hane: Blin ish Halted a 
Rt edn ao Hi iy es [ 
b fia al gs Hy a3253: Hien a : 
yal aui i tae etree 
PRL Sr az fad 43° a 5232223 Zin82 23% ES 2 ig 4 3° 43e33 
iia THE Hee tbe ARH Hui ill i 
bidtat puangh Tagless dint 
HE galas fg G UND Gia bi tit Hales 
: aes Hibade SUE epee estas Ee 
Hata ee Ge Hee 
hae ‘brea peeeliic asl 
He py PeHSHEI, aauiaija diildieiihediig 








In her great name we need but call 
Plea 2a 1 apa! 
e suffering Mary amiles 
‘hod Falstat ota us of old 
‘Then, wherefore should we leave this hearth, 
Our books, and all our pleasnut labore, 
If we can have the whole round earth, 
And still retain our home aud neighbours 


Why wish to roam in other landst 

| pel bee ness ang 
e@ have our ony i our 
Enough to live on,—frieuds around us,— 
And, more than all, have hope and love. 
Ah, dearest, while those last, bo sure 
‘That, if there be a God above, 

We are not and cannot be poor! 


‘ON THE DRATH OF 4 YOURG CHTLD, 
Stand back, uncovered stand, for lo! 
‘The parents who have lost their child 
Bow to the majesty of woe! 
He came, 2 herald from above — 
Pure from his God he came to them, 
1h | new duties, deeper love; 
‘And, like the boy of Bethlehem, 
He grew in stature and in grace, 
the aweet spirit of his faco 
‘They learned a new, more heavenly joy, 
And were the better for their boy. 
But God hath taken whom he gave, 
Recalled the m he sent! 
And now beside the W's grave 
The spirit of the strong is 


But though the tears mnst flow, the heart 
distress, — 


Will bring a stream of 
Ba ete ein Ribs nad pon relia 


7 


York to soek improvement in the 
cil by drawing in the Academy of 






to 
use of the 
Al this time, . Losing was ealled npon 


New York as an -, but continued his busi- 
n ie until the antumn 
ede While mt the day in 
is increasing engrayi! | rined 
t night an in the 


mily . Inthe autumn of 1846, he wrote 
a book Seventeen Hundred aud Soventy- 
Six, consisting of upwards of five hundred pages 








Took. of trams op hts tooo, ocaibd w Rlaglayr a crtort 
and plenty, both picturesque and it to con- 


tem 

¢ fruit and vegetable stands were now loaded 
with dump, green ¥ each humble root hav- 
ing its own penuen t, often arranged with a sin- 
gular taste for color, eg rises Papers Py the 
woman who exercised no little akill in setting olf her 
stand to advantage. 


‘There was one le stand to which we would 
draw the reader's particular attention; not exactly 
as a type of the for thore was 0 


unlike all the rest, both in this stall and its occupant, 
that it would have drawn the attention of any per- 
son it was 


just taken tres! from the soil, lay 
against heads of lettuce, ti with crisp and green- 
piled against the deep blackish green of 


that had supplied its place, 
ne A ee hid “oct geien 

These with the ved glow of strawberries in their 
i and shaded 
fresh grape leaves; bonqnets of roses, hya- 
lent their 

@ and the glow of rich colors to the 
coarser children of the soil, and would have been an 


" ok eee of 
snaonnsee ih were sure to drop in as aoning 


dee 
tad mow the trade of the 
earnest. Serv 
into the market. ‘The elink of 
the butoher’s 


sharp, eager banter—the dull n 
iets; cence’ toa ne et uaree’ plee- | 


swarmed 
—the sound of 





the ofamig Seemed av ge! i 





iif 
t i 
fet 


E 


Pi Elis 
ie 
anh 
ul 





‘of. 
talls, toward that the 
the Shacksterswremeoeaeaina tis epee ta tekes ey 
tna to look about her with no inconsiderable 
a a 
“What do you want, little girl; in 
va to aiel anything 


ce or twice as 





autumn color, dimpled like ‘ipe apple 
and qrethedbagh ot ey a 


CYCLOPADIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 


Sea eee y ny He had 
benetit of a goo! edu , and after some 
Se ee ee 


friends. Tle holds religions services there a 
tech omy, == 





Mr. Hoyt’s poems are simple in expression, and 
of a delicate moral or devont sentiment. 
touch tenderly upon the disappointments of life, 
with a sorrowful refrain. In another mood his 
verse is hopeful and animated. The title of his 
lanes poem, The Chaunt of Q dave, lee 

& fraginentary composition, indicates en 
of his bapa) ee which of 


the common feelings, 
lon; experiences of the world. A fase 
ful love of ality of eye for the picturesque, 

bare Li Seaped are exhibited in 
i caiish have recs found 
the way ea into the popular collections of the 


‘SyOW ; A WINTER SKETOR. 
The blessed morn has come again; 


Zhe tie ober window pane, 


id seems to say 








Break, break oie the enchanter’s chain, 
Away, away! 
ge he yet there is no sound 


‘Tree, shrub, and lawn, and lonely glade 
Have cost their green, 
Se ise ae eee 


So white and clean, 
Pen the old that hold the bars 


And the ol 


Thi rng bythe 


‘The eaves, the 


‘The wagon, loaded for the mill 
‘The eve before. 


Maria brings the 
But whee! 's hewelt 
Like magic of a bai, 


Petrino end Yall 
How Senit ait 
Tua moon-pie 1 fs playing Extal 
The k ee 
re #0 tried, 
St by antes 


Ths bug ork nk ot aghast 
No spot to scratch him a repast 
Up curves his head, 
Starts the dull hamlet with a binst, 
And back to bed. 


Old dro’ dobbin, at the call, 
‘Abianeds & 


Out from the window of his stall 
A view he takes; 

While thick and faster eeem to fall 
‘The silent flakes. 


The barn-yard 
ras gentry, musing, ehime 


Good Ruth bas called the younker folk 
To dress below 
Full weleame was the word she spoba 


The ere ee 


‘The snow tthe sy 


A pleasant strain ; 
Yeseiddy sone of mith, retire 
A hy the Feral Se 
Goes up again, 


bag st the ae ad Z 





‘Opes where the of Judah shine, 

Sweet miustecsie!) 

How soars each heart with each fair line, 
Oh God, to Thee! 

Around the altar low they bend, 
sda ce 

As snows upon the roof deseend, 
So angels there 

Come down that household to defend 
With gentle care. ° 


Now sings the kettle o'er the blaze; 
@ buckwheat heaps ; 
Rare Mocha, worth on Arab’s pratee, 
hr dicho 
The old ronnd her nod obeys, 
And out it leaps. 


‘ 


Now tiny snow-birds venture nigh 
‘copae and spray, 
Byes strangers! with the winter's sky" 


pas away) 
And er crumbs in full supply, 
oe all the day. my 


Let now the busy hours begin; 

Out rolls the ehura ; 

Forth hastes the farm-boy, and brings in 

eh ciel Sait Si ool 
scour, sew, ai 

"STN night's return, ee 


‘To delve Hla threshing John mvt hie; 


‘His sturdy 
Can all the subtle damp defy; 
How wades he tat 
While dainty i 
His track pursue. 
Each to the hour's allotted eare ; 
‘To shell the corn; 
‘The broken harness to repair; 


The weigh t adorn; 

As cheerful, tranquil, frosty, fair, 
Speeds on the mora, 

While mounts the eddying smoke amain 


T qitient too 
‘nere some mystic sphere, 
A youth, celestial, down aoe ya 
Bo strangely fair seemed all thin, here, 
He e’en would crave a mortal birth ; 
And soon, a rosy boy, he woke, 
A dweller in some stately dome ; 
Soft sunbeams on his vision broke, 
And this low world became his home. 


Ah, cheated child! Could he but know 
Sad soul of mine, what thou and I! 

The bud would never wish to A 
‘The nestling never tong to fly; 
erfumis ¢ regurdless air, 


: 
} 
FE 
¥ 


He knelt at many a shrine; 
Reelined in love's voluptuous bowers 5 

Fee diab vase at repine, 
‘Were listless still the lingering hours. 

eet argosie to bear 

But sorrow’s sombre cloud was there, ‘ 
"Twas dark in all that stately dome, 

‘Was rent at Inst life's fair 


Deluded,—bat ; 

‘A conqueror,—but his banner furled ; 
‘The race was over—hbe had won,— 

But found his prize—a worthless World! 


‘The flatteries Tso long have wore 
memory’s casket one by one, 
Must now be stricken from the hoard; 


‘The da: inselled joy is done! 
Beniathe eden wosT woe > 
The lustre 


WILLIS GAYLORD CLARK; LEWIS GAYLORD CLARK. 


ene aan his brother Lewis 
the editor. 


delphia. She ewes ee 
a not long after her ia 
soon fol her, falling a vi aiteeuin 


Stark's pooh with the exception of The Spéri 
's poems, ex t 
of Life—pronounced betore the Franklin Society 
of Brown Univ in 1888—are brief, and were 
written for and published in his own journals and 
the and annuals of the day. A portion 
Made lected in a voluine dv his! lifetime, and 
itor Ma edition appeared in ss York in 1847. 
spodiana have also been with 
a Prisint of other prose sketches and his: poems, 
pe Dagte of his Literary Remains, p 
in 
The humors and sensibility of the essayist and 
poet, alike witness to his warm, amiable sym- 
pathies, His mirth was rollicking, exuberant in 
anima. spirits, but always innocent, while his 
muse dwelt fondly on the various moods of na- 
ture, and portrayed domestic tenderness in the 
sericlutes of its darker hours of suffering and 


Mr. Lewis Gartorp Crank is the editor of 
the Knickerbocker M: ne, having conducted 
that periodical since its third volamein 1832, He 
has become widely known by his monthly Zditor's 
Tudle and Gossip with Readers and d- 
ants, ecctoaalng 8 collection of the and en 
dits of the day, connected by # See coting 
comment. A selection from the Gossip was pub- 
lished in one volume in 1852, the title 
Kniek-Knaeka from an Editor's Table,* and a 
compliment has recently been paid to its author 
in the shape of a volume containing original con- 
tibaions by many of the leading writers of the 


Habterbgger Movil by peer aete ita, entitled Zhe 


A RONG OF MAT. 
Tis eee ee buds al] around me are swell- 


hee are ang the steam, tere is Delt ia 


A senn flight in uch Bosoes fs dwelling” 
As float the pure day-beams o'er mountain and 


vale; 
The desolate reign of Old Winter is broken, 


Se 














‘The verdure is fresh every tree; ad 
Of Natare’s revi geod aks ays 
Of love, oh thou Spirit of Beauty! Sta 
‘The sun looketh forth from Komi ierd rien) 
wats he clouds 
bac 


RE ey 
He noni to the zenith, and laughs on the 
iv 


He wakes into music the green forest-bowers, 
‘nd gids the guy plas whieh. the broad rivers 


The i is out on his delicate pinion— 
gid et i ae 
| A preetitg vo aie and her 
je pours, on the west 
Around, above, there are 
The woodlands are sin 
‘The fields are an folding emerald treasure, 
And man’s genial is soaring in light. 
Alas! ph Pte hecierring ey fie, 
tie sptlog Atos Srmae FeSO 
‘eon in te wood, the sheen of the blos- 


Te rshowlling fous, Chir magi i le! 
ae I list to streams, when I look on the 
jowers, 
tell of the Past with so mournful n tone, 
That WAS, call up the throngs of my long-vanished 


‘And sigts that thetn -ransponts are aves ail gone. 


Huns wide-spreading earth, from the limitless 
There have vanished an eloquent glory and 


To u aslled pnd aoquare’ he ialeeeegorie 
Ww Paskagin bes Macon erect a 


a indeeo rail a light a8 Pld, pine tarnga 


Wea e of my spirit in beariseea sea 
ey ee eal hese fee 


Tih eae te ogonmy Poe pnoee =| 

But the newness aud Feccnet inet are en 
Tf tt te love king erro ts aa 

‘The shadows of death o'er my path have been 
Tiere Ties who have loved me debarre] 

fperaests 
The \grien turf is bright where in peace they are 

And on wings of remembrance my soul is away. 


It is shut to the glow of this present 
pp Seplrl eetemn be | 

And it turns to the high-seem distance, 
Beat blooms of earth will be gurnered 

ins 

Where no mildew the soft, damask-rose cheek shall 
Hikers Griat besss no longer ie sting ; 

Where pitiless Death no sceptre can flourish, 
Or stain with his blight the luxuriant 

It is thus that the hopes which to others a a 
Fall cold on my heart in this rich month rong H 

I hear the clear anthems that ring 


z 
2 
= 


ff 
HD 


to these seh 

ical hand, as he recalls the awe of 
discipline, and the admiration with 
village palpi in clviea ik ad signty 

it in clerical si igni 
a lected) Neen ta Singin 
a short time at a Richmond academy, 
the University at Charlottesville, 
might have attained the highest honors 


i 
i 


epheies 
rier 
2 

2 

= 

ES 

: 

z 

= 


feats 
sonal hardihood; ihe tovecceastag tn toe tay 
of Lae oh py Be Richmond to Warwick, 
Seven mules and a o- 
hably fromm two to three illes an hour.” He 


a marae So see 
w e was 

by the American Minister, Mr. Henry 
m, Who provided him with the means of 

home.* He was afterwards received 

into favor by Mr. Allan, who hin an 
entrance as 4 cadet at West Port, an institution 
with which his wayward and reckless habits, und 
impracticable mind, were so much at war, that 
he was com) to retire from it within the 
year. Mr. parieg lost his first wife, mar- 
ried again, and Poe, still received with favor at 
the house, was soon compelled to leave it for ever, 
doubtless from gross inisconduct on his part, for 
ms Allan had proved himself a much-enduring 


Poe was now thrown ti 

He had 
years, ie Pa in 

nore in 1829, with the title Al A@ragf, Tumer- 

lane, and Minor Poemat Taking the standards 


or 
were singular 
eh uxury and 





$ Datos Marck S Donning, 1609, Sve. pp. $1. 











it, particularly a melodions dithyrambic on oxo of 
the poet's air, i 
A certain 


|. His 
cast in that mould ; his sensitive, spiritual organi- 
powers, became ghostly and unreal.* rode 
contact with the world, which might have set up 
a novelist for ape = ent ie's 
sects scarcely to have impinged 
tions. Hix nist walking in mean daw aes 


it nothing Wy experience or Alto- 
r wanting fu the bi faculty of hamor, 
@ could extract nothing from the rough 


of the world but a cold, frivolous mockery of 
Jans and pursuits. His intellectual yment 

ac te Nona of fis phe pag oad og 

art; his 


of the worll, This 
may account for his sensitiveness as to the recep. 


* A lody of this elty wittily mentioned ber first 


of bis unhappy, distant siz, in the opening lises of it's 
‘Traveller: i 3 








New when the union was broken off. | which presented itself” To get the word in often 
Aftor this, in 1849, he made a tour to Maryland stanzas were to and. a a ra- 
Savion sondinded > nat. enpmassi ft rectows |.she spas * meocreeceian ieteeipregaiig 
vi anew “a non- R 
tes to New York to make some ar- ” as alle for, henoe the Raven, Death 
rangements, when he fell into one of his now fre- | is the theme, as universal and the saddest, and 
quently recurring fits of intoxication at Balti- most powerful in alliance with beauty: so the 
more, was carried in a fit of insanity from the Geath of speak Reale The 
the hospital, and there died on Sunday | rest is accounted for a in the same explicit 
October 7, 1849, at the age of thirty- | manner in this criticism. 
eight. Though in any sense of the as in 
At the close of this melancholy narrative afeel- | the development of +, Poe would 
Boe apap SOON, Wi. be, BRERA those be Sd Ss pons a eee 
familiar with the author's undoubted. It | in tes aya effects, he was a 
will be difficult to harmonize this wild and reck- | master of ri and turn th 


! 


a gn eo ese a — ‘a le : 
writings. same paney was occur reader writi 
i ep conduct. Neat to fastidlonsnees ally in his criticisms and satiric skttobeas Bat 


2. 


; 

2 

E 

: 

E 

i 

i 

=e 

: 
| 


E 
i 
i 
fi 
Fe 
Ta 
: 
aa 


= 
? 


2 


i 
au 
ce 

ce 
ESE 
if 
uy 
a 


With ral proportioned to the intellectual Se ee eae aoeieee hapa 

mol i iom 1 it is not on 

ha wet hate been in the first rank of | they are but variations of the forms of the terrible, 
iT in its quaint, melodramatic character: in reality 


uy 
: 
ff 
z 
= 
a 
s 
4 
i 
F 
27% 5 


tHoa, he has seal by. anyrieriie in | andl Onapair oc tox tech aioeatod rene hate ee 
iter in r of the 
asierlea buthicking sincerity, his forced man ieee pe ee 


dais the peotliar | While we admire their powerfal eccentricity, and 
mood in which they were written. In ingenuity | Tort to for a novel sensation to our poi 
and. artificial ter- 





of inven mazsical pain, 
o 
rors for the imagination, his poems Ta teecbeg produced; and at. what. prodigal ar lie 
F , The Manders of the Rue Morgue, man nature, of broken hopes, and bitter I~ 
cured when it was translated in Paris, | Hees, the rare exotics re 
where such details of frequent oceut aren, 
The mesmerie revelation of The Pacts in the Case ‘on MAUSTED FatAcE, 
of M, Vi >, published in the Whig Reviow, In the of ode-vell 
im) eae innocent philosophic people By good angels tenanted, 
in asa rapt atl nomena. As Onsen tes stately palaco— 
tany reer to his article The -Philewpy ay Gone ah Thoughts da 
may to In the monarch (t's dominion— 
poston wih US gta People 
poem Raven. ever serap. a 
ined to write a popular poem, he deter- Wor Tires tet 
mines the extent: it must be brief Banners yellow, glorious, golden, 
enough to be read ata single and the bre- ‘On its Poof did float and flow, 
vity “must be in the direct ratio of the intensity this—was in the olden 





EDGAR A. POL 


ic — ea turning, all my soul within — 
sor Eeert o>» ter seer et 

Surely said 1, = 1, “surely that is something at my 
POR Lp onighneeel A Rr oF mr 
Let ikke te will a momentaor ine mystery 


"Tie the wind and nothing more!” 
Open Bene Ring bo Stien when, with many & 
Piha torent Suara site Of ey pee 
ot ti ai aan mae es not an instant 
Ba, With mie fT Stilo oc or lady, perched above my 
Perce ton ss ot Pallas just above my cham- 
Perched, and sat, and nothing more. 
‘Then this ebony bird beguiling my aud fancy into 


emil 
By the grave and stern decorum of the countenance 
it wore, 
ba thy crest be shorn and shaven, thou,” I 
“art anre no craven, 
im and ancient raven wandering from the 


tly shore— 
Toll me what thy lordly name is on the Night's Ptu- 
tonian shore!” 
Quoth the raven, “ Nevermore.” 
Much T marvelled this ungainly fowl to hear dis- 
course so plainly, 
Though its ewer Tittle meaning—tttle relevancy 


bore 
For mos sastiot help agresing that no living haman 


Geet pi Pita blessed with seeing bird above his 
iber door— 
eae or ahve ght upon the seulptured bust aboye his 
¥ door, 
With auch @ name as “ Nevermore." 


Bottke raver, iting Jonely on the placid bust, spoke 
onl 
lank ocia seaedy as if his son] in that one word he did 


outpour, 

Nothing farther then he uttered—not a feather then 
he fluttered— 

Till 1 scarcely more than muttered, * Other friends 
have flown before— 

On the morrow he will leave me, as my hopes have 

. flown before.” 
‘Then the bird said “ Nevermore," 


Sapelad ob tie Soe Dertken by reply s0 aptly 
epee ” said 1, * what it utters is its only stock 
and store 
asia ress ee a ae eam yee eer site 
isaster 
Followed fast nnd followed faster till his songs one 
burden bore— 
“Dil tha dlngpe of BRS HE pe Sie eaertoly burden 


Of ‘ Never—nevermore,'" 
But the raven still beguiling all my sad eon! into 


Sipet 1 whested » ombloned. seat det ot bird, 


door; 
Thay te velvet sinking, I betook myself to 





Faney unto fancy, thinking what this ominous bird 


What en mis ghastly, goant, and omi- 
Modu fn eroaldog * Neverssora® 

‘This I eat engaged in guessing, but no syllable ex- 

To the fowl whose fiery eyes now burned into my 
bosom's core; 

‘This and more J sat divining, with my head at ease 
tre cual 

On the ne velvet lining that the Lamplight 

But Shoes val rele wae ining with the lamplight 


‘She shall press ah overmersi 
see rE the air grew denser, porfumed 


these angels he ha’ 
cana ae nepenthe from thy memories 


ae ah (Ai aed nepenthe and forget this 
eee in lua casa, ORETRERIRE 
hat” aad, thing of rilt prophet till $f 


ied 
wna er sent, or whether tompest tossed 


thee here 
ted, on this dewrt land en- 
On this home by Horror haunted—tell me teuly, I 
implore— 


me, Limplore!” 


Quoth the raven, * Nevermore.” 
Recah F rae thing of evil—prophet still, if 
Heit Heaven that bends above us—by that God 
¢ both adore— 


‘Tell this soul with sorrow Indea if, within the die 
tant Ailenn, 

Te eho sigin & seiahed miaien orice Se 
name Lenore— 


Clasp # rare and radiant maidea whom the angels 
name Lenore.” 


Quoth the raven, “ Nevermore.” 
ee ee eee > of pertlog, Ded or fiend!” 


shrieked, 
“oa thee back int to the te tempest and the Night's 
Platonian shore! 
Taayeio Wiel Picea es A Heke Sane thy soul 


Leave vine broken ut the bot sore 
Tabs tly bask det heart, and take thy fc 
form 
from off mn) door” = 
the raven, “ Nevermore.” 


And the raven, never flitting, still is sitting, «till is 
oe bust of Pallas just above my chamber 
And his eyes have all the seeming of « demon's that 
And the oer him throw 
any pha streaming * his 
sndiraag peal oad Gus Wi sallow thab ial tlie 


on the floor 
Shall be lifted—nevermore! 





EDGAR A. POE, 


looking astern, I saw the whole horizon covered with 
weg nite 


me cloud that rose with 
most, amazing ¥ 

“In ismionies ihebreeesa had headed us 
off fell away, and we were dead becalmed, drifting 
about in every direction, ‘This state of how- 


ndered at once—for we lay 
elder 


: the bolt, When Kssoaldt a it no are 
myself upon my knees, keeping 
with my fide, and thus get my head clear, Pre- 
sently our little boat gave her a shake, just aaa 
‘does in coming out of the water, and thus rid 
horself, in some measure, ofthe seas, 1 was now 
ing to get the better of the stupor that had come over 
me, aud to collect my senses 50 23 Lo see what was to 
be done, hearts _ spec pat Lo) my oy It 
was my elder brother, an rt leapéd for joy, 
for Yad made sure that hewad cvattionnd—bas the 


“No one ever will know what my feelings were at 
that moment, I shook from head to foot as if I had 
had the most. violent fit of the 1 knew what 
he meant by that one word w: h—I knew 
With the 


ing could save us! 
in crossing the Strom channel, 





“ You perceive . 
we reece a long way up above the whirl, 
even in calmest weather, and then had to wait 
and watch carefully for the now we were 
herrinioe Ss thle, be une} Tough, «we 

urricnne as q sure,’ it, "we 
shall get there just about issome little 


spent itself, or 
seudded 








“i 
i 

iat 
Hl 


: 
[ 
: 
f 


i 
i 
il 


Fi 
: 


[ 
i 
ii 
i 


4F 
Het 


f 
u 


ri 
it 
rE 
fF 
a 
Li 


from | 
and iis alle riding ve rave Wel, 


L 


a sea happened to take 

der ecniver, and borer witht anderoeeou 
uy pd aretha ree i 
Shetang cine ached so high, And then down 
we chtrnoyiitt- a stelp, Subnet e eee 
made me feel sick and dizzy, as if I was falling from 


ery-day Moskoe-strom, the 

whirl as you now see it is like a mill-race, If I had 
hot known where we were, and what we had to ex 
t, Tahould not have recognised the place at all, 

it was, I involuntarily closed my eyes in horror, 
The lids clenched themselves together as if in a 


Pete could not have been more than two minutes 
afterward until we suddenly felt the waves subside, 
and were enveloped in foam, The boat made a 

half turn to larboard, and then shot off in its 
new direction like a thunderbolt. At the same mo- 
ment the roaring noise of the water was completely 
see eeaL iaocins Biencetin iis catornaren 

ti ine given out ¢ waate pil 

Treva ome vacua os off thelr steam 
all together, We were now in the of surf that 
always surrounds the whirl; and 1 thought, of 
course, that another moment would plunge us 
the al whieh we could only see indie 
tinctly on accornt of the amazing eloeily with 
which we were ‘The boat did not seem 





ena 
nn 


ea 
aa 


fai 


=5r 


Hi 


Hd ! 


it 
aid 73 
7 ian 
Aa, } 


in 


fad te 


ey BE 











tat 
Sgagqys li ad aj 
seeilied Fas ale dil fl i} i 
ltt re] ip Tee ql 4 ee fH S eeseqe Hf j 
, ig ie FE Ua whee Ne (eg i 
a tat Gi iit 
ia vig igs aH Bh ik eH cit £6 Hi re ay 
a eae a tue si ali Jevesniflall Huns tii uit 
Hee ea, He Hn = fqn ibe aia a 
Hit tptatitit del se ia alts 
ih stk aytiit ae ut sis fgg figs gis sit 
HHH vada an ie fee Pel 
nae alll Se fire jen veld 
nine uaa fal sae ileal ini 
ae : ripe Hh inal aati 4 Hell 
F EF ui Halt LF il ids Bile: HELE i: 
ah th He ae basal HERE 
at 4g] er Wa 





ROBERT T. CONRAD. 


the Inwlesa pnssi hich eweep, tempest-like, 
through the fi tumult 


Nearer comes the storm and nearer, rolling fast and frightful 
Speak, Ximena, speak nnd tell ua, who bas Tost and who has 


woo 
™ Alas! alas! T know not: and foe together fall, 
Pee che, Raine riamy sit + pray, my sister, for them 


we ask, wherefore this hateful con- 


Lin ts the ocean two ships each other, 
hi gal “they rece ty Dull, see a 

‘ing gales. are Tay 
eo has boot lavished in thelr ful ions, 


A numerous crew, Ly i 
fort, hives in their secure shelter: ly. 
travellers shall meet in joy and diene t the flag 
at the mast-head shall give the signal of fellowship; 
the happy sailors shall cluster in the rigging, an 
SR ci Mia ECAC SEEN in the 
face, while the exhilarating voices of both crews 
shall mingle in accents of gladness uncontrollable 
It is not so. Not as brothers, not as friends, not as 
wayfarers of the common ocean, do they come to- 
gate: but as enemies, The 

ristle fiereely with death-dealing instruments. On 

‘ir masts, flashes 


fatul artillery, They, who had “the dread- 
fal touch of merchant-marring rocks"—who had 
sped on their long and solitary way unharmed by 


their immitigable war—now at last fall by the 
hand of each other, The same spectacle of Prise 


pee both 
ened with blood, the murders of St. Bartholomew 


their rage. Each has now bovome a swimming 
a. At length these vesselsa—such pageants 
of the sea—once so stately—so proudly built—but 
now rudel Sastry eee tele —eith shivered 
masts and ragged sails—exist only as unmanageable 
wrecks, srepe | on the uneertain waves, whore 
temporary lull © is now their only safety. 
In amazement at this strange, annatural contest— 
away from country and home—where there is no 
or home to defend—we ask again, where- 
his dismal duel? Again the melanchol 
truthful answer promptly comes, that this is the 
established method of ining j 
nations, 


ROBERT T. CONRAD. 
Rorger T. Corran, the anthor of the highly snc- 
cessful tragedy of was born in Philadel- 
phia about the year 1810. After comploting his 
preliminary education, he studied law with his 
uncle, oe Kittera; but in of the 


devoted 


consequence of i 
pee she tel oe He returned 
to the practice of the law, and was immediately 


vessels now. 


_ in spi 





LT. Onrad 


Mr, Conrad occupies a nent. Hecate ent 
is now af Phi phia, having 
elected to office by the Native Aterican 


POLL, Ontrad wrsteu he fea tragedy bakecikie 
twenty-first . It was entitled Conradin, and 


after. It is 

and has 
The 
daring his concealment in Italy, re the 


i in_ his youth. ti Seeretb nae 
tyranny In outh. He 
and the terse which bears his name 
in history. The democratic hero is presented 
with Ceres and the entire production abounds 
rited scenes and anil language. The 
was published by the author in 1852 in 
a volume itled Aylmere, or the Bondman of 
Kent; and Other Poems. The leading article of 
the latter portion of the collection, The Sons of 
the Wilderness—Reflections beside an Indian 
Mound, extending to three hundred and seventy 
lines, is a meditative poem on the Indians, recit- 
ing Lae bie and pathizing with their 
fate in a I strain. The remaining pieces 
are for the most part of a reflective character. 


WREEDOM 
. * . . . . 
Whence but from God can spring the burning love 
Of nature’s liberty! Why does the 
Watch, raised and che bright reoks tha: 


Tove, 
Heaven's free-born, frolic in the harvest sky! 





is chainless now, 
why, in breathing nature, is the slave 
o or iaserep ate py 
Or beast or bird, a thing of seom! Where 
‘The prairic’s purple seas, the free horee flies, 


sea 
Se ee 





on. ‘ ‘ 
Ponder it, freemen! It will teach that Time 
Is not the foe of ! and man may be 
he pants for. Every thou; 


why should she 
Shrink from the future! ‘Neath the last sun’s 


SREes isk toa: Tee her starry ag sll flow! 

ee ee eee ee 
ih, thought. ‘The hardy which 

Rome ae the crushed world’s empire, caught the 


Jed them from soft eyes, and never knew 
Shame, fear, vor fetter. ‘The stern Spartan drew, 
aioe a iT i nels rpcneanh ac 

spirit; and our jus will woo 
‘The stake—his forest Portia by—smile on, 
Till the death-rattle ring and the death-song is done, Conniensta) 
Fame is man's vaseal ; and the Maid of France, at his destination. hesubseq 
‘The shepherd heroine, and Padilla’s dame, and recited in public, and in 1888 pnl 
or 


same— | 
‘Marat a wore than Cesar. Blood 
In seas for Right, aud ne'er a holier know! 
*. . . . 7 * . *. 


desert rock ield = 
me si bt ies guarded it 
eee aoe tes J tn the night 
ee an 
cae Reus 
And Corm whose 


Is Freedom's foster nurse; and though she 
ber wel en many sor om one wee fer 














2 HAY 
Hebe eu ag yPReaSa 
inte dai a8 aie a 
gz é g Eexeces ag3ei eae 
ie Heal ae eal iste |e 
ee eae mt it i fie a i i 
. ii 3 + Hay Ha rE age = 3 Pet cs 22% s= 
i i 2 4583 Bae ive Hel au wu z bi é rey iy 
SHEA: iivuee baie Hi 
af ssh aeal Hua a1, Gn hin ili ip 
a E Hee pesas aga ae i i 
i Fs us : “ ii . au 43 ; al Hak: re 
i a a gul iils fy ,iiil ale) g\ SE eg 
ate drigailatht, #1 ik) ig ered 
+ ean Hii ie S Hi by 
yon ERATE eee ail ite a 
p USERRA Hee AA Be 1 eae a 
” fell ie 
is tlle 








ft 
i 


ie 
Ha 

i 
ut 
ie 
ti 

iF 


E 


fe 
Eps 
f 
= 
i 
Z 
5 


i 
I 
E 


world was you 
to roam, 
whole expanse of nature. Darkness was upon the 


face of the deep, The veil was unremoved from 
grotto and from forest, 
We often talk of the of common life. What 


L 
{ 
i 


common. 
were rare and grand. The themes of ancient 
are almost all of this elas; and pak po 
of antiquity derive an abso 


i 


i 
i 
i 
2 
: 
é 
2 


ie and the march of 
have banished from the prevent age, and which 
never bo writtea again unless the world strides 


HE 
ae 
Hl 
fs 

i 

: 

g 

& 


for strength and courage, —a tourist of 
clus, darting through the Hellespont on 
ire-wiuge of modern na ‘on, would hardl 


He 
eit 
a] 
2 
? 





mpd 
t which, in 
deft. 


early communi 
hes at 


in veel 
itself, with nature, 
aud with the infiuite Voknown, 





WILLIAM INGRAHAM KLP. 
Tue first member of the old New York y of 









William Ingraham Kip is the ellest son of 
Lemar) Kip, for Joes f years President of the 
North River Bank, is connected through his 
mother’s family with Captain Ingraham, the 
spirited liberator of Martin Kozsta, He was 
born in New York, October 3, 1811, and prepared 


for college at schools in that city. After passing | 


8 twelvemonth at Rutgers College, he completed 
the remaining three years of his college course at 
Yale, in 1831, He commenced and continued for 
ene a te the oo ivi J was gradnated 
that nity, and was nat 
from the General Theol jal Seminary of the 
poeee nt Episcopal Church, and ordained 


arduous 


an 1843 is The Lenten Fast, a 
lume in w! origin, propriety, and ad- 
van of the observance of th 

inted out. It has passed throngh six editions, 

n 1844, The Double Witness of the Church, an 
exposition of the Via Media between Roman 
Catholic and unepiscopal Protestant doctrines, 
rene Tt is regarded as one of the most 
valuable of the many works on the subject, and 
has passed through several editions. The Christ- 
mas Holi in Rome, a volume derived from 
the author's observations in 1844, appeared inthe 
following: year. In 1846 he prepared The Karly 
Jemit ns in North America, an interesting 
and valuable volume, drawn from the Lettres 
Edifiantes et Cwrieuses ecrites des Missions Etran- 
géres, the original narratives of the Jesuit mis- 
sionaries other con: 


and records, 
Th 1851 he issued in London, and afterwards in 


@ BeAsON ATS 


of law, which he then | 








dae. They, hoover todhote spiel ae 
20, They, however, aunple an 

research, and have given their author, in connex~ 
jon with his hij successful 

tions, and numerons articles in the New York 
Review, Church Review, Evergreen, American 
Monthly Magazine, Churehinan, and other peri- 
odicals, a ue position as a theologian and 
scholar, as well as author, 


ee have both attained literary distinction, 
The rmer, Elijah, early developed # fondness for 
the mathematics. His friends sent him to 


tled Log Arithmetic, peas before he was 
twenty-one, and his Geography Ms the 


which is in general use as 2 sch 








Tne 
i re 
: iu 
ak 
fe 


if 
: 
i 
i 
+ 


i 
a 
. 


af 
ut 
Hi 
f 
Peeks 


= 
f 
iy 
i 
aE 
5 


a5 
zee 


y 
28 
a 
i 
i 


brain 
a headache he worked that off by a few hours’ 
extra forging. 
‘Thos on his sounding anvil shaped 
Each burning deed and thought, 
A letier to a friend inquiring for em 
translator of Goria, and telling 


Ks 


yinent 


as 
Feashod Edward Everets, then Governor of 
sachusetts, who read ue account at a public 


at once installed 





B53 
Douglas Jerrold’s weekly forining 
of this kind was the distribution, in ‘of a 
Behe py yeh 
collection of butions to the press, 
written with a certain withont ext 
ae sh in prea 


Tsee it, you would ask me what I to say for 
myself for ing the the 
quill, as of Twill be ho- 
Dood fee die sl y Coy editor's teal Uy the gs 
nius of machinery. na 


supple automatons, as a of cote 
ei and twirled it in tee tort ora into a 
whirlwind of whizzing shreds, and laid it at my feet 


atone a5 there ae ee eee 
Yes, he had come looki: 


Eira tise vont's 

he Reeth ith 
ere in ew 

2 the “awe mi £0 whieh he bad own 

saw the gigantic move a 
Tala tne cea erieanlo ene 1 Lotte 
of human beings gliding with the velve! 
wind over the iron track, and droves of 
yelling in their stables at the rate of twenty mi 

hour towards their e¥ 


ur ir 
pieitieerl se Piece eeuionre 
of the 
fore it, Monstrous benst of ral tordea 
Leste the intervening 
ies 
sinews, it was nothing but a beast, an enormous 
grogatonof—horee power And I went back to 
with ired reverence for the intellectual 
hy of my hammer. Passing along the street 


4 Hi ae 
lH aH 


called | Soo attheibon'T eard g note ia am old Building, as 








of some one a pnir of bellowx So 

more ado, T in, and there, in a corner of a 
room, I saw the chef d’ceuvre of all the 

that has ever been invented since the birth of 
Cain. Th its construction it was as simple and anas- 
suming a8 a cheese press It went a lever— 


with Lists Seth pa Ng irecaler gs with which 
itiowts ° to world, 


é 
F 
iH 


al 
h 
sleF 
: 5 
Hi 


si 
# 


¥ 
yj 
— 
: 
t 
E 
4 


eit 
i 
au 
i 

3 


c 
Hi 
2 
ee 
ra 
3 
Es 
ge 


f 
iF 
é 
i 
5 
a 


BZ 
He 
Lee 
i 5 

E 
ie 
cer 


F, 
Ly 
€ 
ge 
g 
i 
é 
é 
: 


ea 
F 
5 
i 
baie 
f 
& 
a 


E 
i 
F 
=a 
are 
ae 
a58 


mueb w! 
did before.—No, sir, all the that 


sf 
rp 
i 
: 


z 
: 
g 
E 


7 
ERs 
fF 
fl 
sf 
it 
ue 


how can you see them when caught, or show them 

tare grew Inmi with idea, and 
08 inows anew idea, 

bie Inksoller proudly across the metallic 

page the -, replied, hts work and 

walkin things what make tracks; aud we take them 


derstan 
Lo), MAS phere 
ly jel, beginning at the patch on his 
ac pl re ing up with his oye tothe 
top ap rowa nepen oe be Ezekiel com- 
me! the ets, of i ies tao wipi 
on tow apron, an 
attitude of earnest tion Tearenict on encour 

raginy , and ro he went on, 

* Though make travks,” he continued impres- 
sively, as if evolving a new phase of the idea by re 
peatig slew ; Bedios ne assented (to lv prape- 
sition ingly, he stepped to the type-case, 


4} 

mai teaskan hats aged in bia Toft hand 
®& score or two of metal slips, “ with these here 
letters we can take the exact Saha of every 

that ever went out of the of a human 
man; and we can print it too,” giving the inked form 
a blow of triumph with his fist, “ we can print it too, 
give us and ink « , till the great round 
earth keted aronud with a coverlid of 











rr etatt 
Ln 
abel sletres 
nue 
Ht ite 
a 


ul 
i 
i 
AS 
Fe 


lr 
ee 
ei 
i 
E 


‘ollege, 
In 1849 Mr. Street 
e 


int Fron: reneral Canada, 
inst berth mactinioee Salar 

jue scones ol 

indian Wf, and aboands ia of descr 
tion of natural scenery, in the "s best vein 
gh 1 : of the of Mr. 

a 

‘ieee with the exception of a few 
jovenile and the ron ntenac, 
all that had written to was 
ublished in New York. He has eontri- 


a namber of pieces 
ead to form a volame of similar size. He 
J 


Nature, 
and air, the phenomena of vegetable and 
animal life in their various relation to the land- 


sca He has been Senet deseribed 
itlos by comparison the minute ae 
of the painters of the Dutch school, Mr. Tucker- 


itude, we im, wild flowers up 
from among brown leaves; the drum of mes 
tridge, the ripple of waters, the flickering of au- 
tumn sting of | snow, the ery of 
the panther, the rour of the winds, the melody of 
tek, ot ‘our naman In ar@ecgn eed. he 
our senses, a 

es to home. He 
be ccatten 
pescado ak! 
graphi ; 


i 
E 
L 
i 


zo 
A 
i 
4 
| 

F 


4 i 
iE 


E ckadi 
g ce 


3 
Fa 
ef 


Rude 
And still the settler 






nal 











g are - fa 
ae : a i 
i i He HF Lire i 
| Rp il fae ae 
jad Rune! lanaliea 
: #4 dha. oF i " ey 
gg aed ce Blane Et De r ¢ox 
PE gue gel Hever its Hee ne “dl fee i 
pe SHEE bp Wake Hadigh | qs ay aay # a sat 
‘ ee ai enter bead i ae i 
yee [duels Peay ae int diy BUS: 
3% ei TERHUE an leila it be 


rion ih foal eae tear ts ati 


He has borne in the: r 
ot in Pagel am a ia et ope 
ous denouncer, A number of his discourses on 


to ran Sper hdran, on in his 
two Sears, 
- of 


of nan, and o similar diseourse, re- 
markable for its severity, on Daniel Webster. 

As a specimen of Mr. Parker’s manner on o 
Sika seed we mat tvs 8 fe pumageefecn 
w we 

Dy him in 1854 00 





vious aE isa epee aay 
monl: lest. at , woman . After that, 
thebedy shrinks a lite; the h Se eniake 

i woe thin and dry. hair whitens asd 
fallsaway. The frame ‘the bones become smull- 
er, feebler, have less and more mere earthy 
matter, The senses ee eee: 
‘The eye is not so a and while it fur. 





‘The animal life ismaking ready to go out. The very — 
old man loves fhe soaasine Hed Gata tie are, 


colored, too, characte: corres- 
nd. General activity is lew Salient love of new 
Things and of new Ng Sy bit the young 
man’s heart, fades away. thinks the old is bet- 
ter. He is not veuturesome; he k at home. 











A sol be Moonee Bin Shee Wale che 
tingnis| . rs. 
rothogaeia tae ok was the 
oe te sees mots & a 
riage, and her youngest sister, 
brother, A. A. 
ine 


from the same fitoile pen, which soon gave their 
si are, “ Florence,” a wide reputation, 

Tn 1834, Miss Locke formed aequtaintance 
of Mr, 8S. 8. O:good, a young painter already 


heart. of the sitter. 
poetical 


A dramatic 


Fiowera from New England, 
her 


Elfrida, in the volume, iny 
James Sheridan Knowl 


8 
moned home by the melancholy news of the 
death of her father, She returned with Mr. 


© Anna Marts py re 
rm 


town of Massachusetts, das her 
Intatey, aa her mother ane Me Jes 
Locke, became the mother Mis 
married fo 1939 Mr. Thomas Wells, am ef tho United 
States revenue servico, and the: of 








Mrs, 
her men! 
from ill health, and 
whole of the winter of 1847-3. ee the suc- 


('s physical frame was as delicate as 
n. She suffered 


was an invalid dui the 


influence of tra 
and to a share in 
at that time was 


of her disorder was soon 
her, and reevived, after a few tears at the 
of leaving her husband and two young children, 
with resignation. The but one after she 
wrote for a young girl at her side, who was mak- 
ri teaching her to make paper flowers, the 
following lines :— 
You've woven roses round my way, 
‘And gladdened all my being; 
How tmuch I thank you, none can say, 
Save only the AlFseeing, 
1m going through the eternal gates, 
eae aieel roves laity 
Death's lovely angel leads mo there, 
And it is sweet to go, 


The ct Up a,b Bana by her 
calm death, five after, on Sunday 

19, 1850, Her remains conga 
laid beside those of her mother 


2 























SEBA SMITH; ELIZABETH OAKES SMITH. 561 
ET he dor a edt agra oe SEBA SMITH—ELIZABETH OAKES SMITIL 
ston er deegaireth besouMP 
theta wound er the dar: ot amath I ape on nr fueron otis 
Pye eee er eae from distinguished | ‘and was 
inlory paving eae born inthe vicinity of Portland, 4 
Gal ho eg wig hg bre Hk age, was married to 
be nie ak ae eighty Mr. Bebe Balth, then ‘enowmpsper io Kort, 
in tons | bcead BET under nom de plume” 
| of Jack obtained national reputation 
deters boning Wisageineee te Rise rama 
SONG—4HE LOVES KIM TET, wo eo 
She loves him yet! looted in a eobona tet 20h avd wks oe ster 
I know by the blush that rises the cacet picceeetilSareanE Oe ane 
Beneath the dialect to the purposes of humorons + Mr. 
her soul-lit cheek; Smith is the author of Powhatan, a Mf Ro- 
She loves him yet! mance, in seven cantos, published in New York in 
oe vo + pens yp apie eee 2 He is also 
a a 
A blush will be enre to speak. tcc war of tae and ey for age 
But deeper signs i 
‘Than the radiant blush of beauty, 
‘The maiden finds, 
Fe 
er heart 
Forguitiie haepalt-hec Cictae== 
Her dark eye fills, 
And her pulse with hope is stirred. 
eg ea ae 
mie ercas) coreg boas 
When Inst 
J il ith ar fea we 
She'll ne’er forget, 
pore his at Lay, waver, 
Balierellt—she loves'him yok 
His favorite songs 
hay ce heeds no other; 
Her life on his love fe set, 
Oht doubt no more! 
ee Reereeat Sallamnioes 
‘Till life be 


Shs Loren ahereill. lore Kim peb 


TO A DEAR LITTER Ter awn! 
When are you nye hap The flowers have come! 
Bees in the balmy pepe aaa 
Tenderly, timid, town in 
hs the sweet rials, droops the Harebell : 
in the ere grass glistens the dow— 
Spring keeps hér promses—why do not you? 


Up in the air, love, the clouds are at bdo 
ey | 





You are more graceful and love: ly collection of Mrs, Smith's ib 

Birds in the weeds enrol all the day loogs lished in New York, was followed in 1 ty The 

When are you sowing to join in the song? Siniesa Child and’ Other Poema. The leading 

Fairer than flowers and purer than dew prodnetion of this volume originally appeared in 

Other sweet things are here—why are not youl — | the Southern Literary Messenger, It is a romance, 

When are you coming? We've weleamed the Rose! vith ever unc, write tho bala wp. 

very Mane hye; aa gaily it goes, As an indi its measure and frequent 
Ln ower teak on tw : felicities of expression we quote a few stanzas, 

Why has it nothing of you, love, to i 

i ! tell us of manic and. wi wires 

Rose of the South! we are waiting for you! "Te ase Ee thee a 

Do, darling, come to us!—'mid the dark And the bee with a 

Like a lute murmurs the musical breeze ; tea Beneath dein wot he 

Sometimes the Hrook, as it trip by the lowers, ‘When the brook is low, and the ripples bright, 

‘Hushes its warble to re As down the stream they go, 

Pure as the Violet, lovely and ‘The pebbles are dry on the upper side, 

Spring shoul have waited till aho gould bring yow! And dark and wet below. 


FOL, 1.—36 





a 





Come up unto the hills—thy strength is there. 
thou hart tarried long, 


The Hloughebe whistles to the loitering herd 
on ” 
tinea ight. 


Come to the Beaking Sie sewbar rills, 

Lichen fo ‘ 

And thou with denizens of power shalt dwell 

Oonspoeed spon bis Sock, snk vtorta and fell, 
upon, 1 and fel 

‘The eagle shall be there. 





Let thy music i 
Noble cheer it. doth impart, 
Strength of will and strength of heart, 


are = - 
Fig aa a 


two years at Detroit, and 
ee oa oe i 
city. In 
Tork. 


‘Mrs, Kirkland’s letters from the West 

eS ot the friends to whom 
, that the writer was induc 

a volume from their contents. A New 

Who'll Follow ? by Mrs. Mary Clavers, 


© Mr. Kirk! 
of the 
a 





rae 
ae 
Lees 
b 13 
: 

: = 

3 

z 


eat 
leman. 


PEE 
ace 

28 
= if 





ZO fe. a thle 


Tn 1848 Mrs. Kirkland visited Enrope, and on 
her return published two pleasant: volumes of her 
letters contributed to the magazine during her 
journey, with the title Holidays Abroad, or Europe 
‘From the West. 

In 1852 Mrs. Kirkland published 7'i¢ Brening 
Book, or Fireside Talk on Morals and Manners, 
with Sketches of Western ts and in 1853, a 
eet vets A Book sor the Home Cirele, 
or iliar Thoughts on Various Topics, Literary, 
Moral, and Social, containing a number of pleasant- 
ly written and sensible essays on topics of interest 
in society, with a few brief stories. In 
wrote the ress for The Book <, 

volume, containi oe 
ies. Mrs. Kirk- 


ty, interspersed wii quotations. 
Mrs. Kirkland’s writings are all marked by clear 


‘ocett. "at Coane mated 


thought. 





the langh which her humorous sketches of cha- 
Toate meena 


join with the world, 


geF 
' 
i 
Hy 
a 


iH 
5 
i 
7 
Q 


ai 
Hi 
[ 
E 
I 
i 


if 
li 
a 
a 
H 

E 


‘ 


fi 
q 
I 
[: 
et 
i 


i 
if 
bf 
be 
ie 
i 


ppose that such amart officers as we have would 


prepared all beforehand. We always used to 


Bf 
Regs 


ge 
i 
i 
i 
FE 
& 


every tongue in full play. 1 

ce from sharp 

widow as might be—thongh it is vain Latins 
“uns,” (indigenous,) who were not above 


ed with bun eof age 
sugar, tied in bite of rag, and pinned to 
shoulders, or held dripping in the fingers of their 


pain to like their amiable parent, were in 
pink ams and blucglass beads Mrs, Nippers 











well at 

con ee 
Se ie Ripper a pet a 
won gmc pn 


ff 
7 4 
a 
ne 
ii 


FEE 
i 
H 
E, 


i 
a 
Li 
ise 
i 


it 
Hy 
‘ 
eB} 
th 


i 
up 
i 
it 


the exclamations seemed to be gail ground, 
‘The few silent members were “pe 


1 asked Mra. Doubleday, in her 
treble. Bag 5 oil You 


the society; and also that thot 
Ry esnte quite too high Sere. 


twenty-fiv! 
arecrionked' at this Public opinion is 
nowhere 80 fy Sal aera Ne bounter amon 


new settlers. as many of the present eom- 
atill lived in log-houses, a tender string was 
At an old who had sat quit in 
corner all the nf a kel fo nd te 
“Well, now! that's queer!” said she, addressin, 
a cee ll lhalery ca timpligede 
* Miss told me you went “eo ‘neigh- 



























et etic, half asle 
» half asleep, at 
“Yea, I believe 80, look at her cheeks” 


Se 


Come, we'll be off!” said Mr. 
“ = Dou! 
Don't 


had come for his - 
vixen, to 





























5 ai ED Hut Ha Ue feu HAG: aut Ha 
a Hn pIBIE( ue ay Ey sat eit i Hi 
ae nile ie Hea et le i 
rue Hiei a a a i sli leetee tay i 
Hea ace eae a a i 
Hee ah ie a EG Ee 
33 3 Tipo me ede 
eran we ARTO 
de iu tia cin Li Sly Had eae i 
H cat On Te een 
nepali ba i sess sedated! Taig ad eya( ves) 
a Hitt i al F Ht He aitaieli i Tite ea #43) Hin 
een en ny 
mene tila aa3 oer ais sai ii He efit tee Guhl iz 








ih 





fein: 
iting 
eikterioe 
neck, - 
known, 
fly 
to cheer, 
* 
Rey; 
my frame, 
Brace, 









HA) HE he ei 
3 : Bre 3s Peaees finial & 
Aa tHE ay in A WE 
aie God APT aR ap. 
38 aj A Ee als Bop Re ipe ips 
jee ia Hote Hore 
2 Ee iat Ha Pai ae fe) baa 
ena in HE SS HIE Anus 
Hild He we HB Bot Una beatae 
id ae iH fal Hi aia S diay stl Fe Pd 
inbisiied Paulas lal (aaa 
Pena a at, Range é ay i Hey eeu 
ahs aby Hn eee o a pee Fy ae 3 aay 
VEGA HAIGH S AliGi sladilaleal 


WILLIAM STARBUCK MAYO. 567 
List petebe a Sy oat eae lla, «bese he 
protected through many subsequent scenes 
‘And log! and sing! of danger, and settles down to domestio felicity 
everlasting day! in the city of Killoam. 
The story is crowded with exciting and varied 
WILLIAM STARBUCK MAYO, aides, ol tig eee > eS 
Da. Maro is a descendant from the Rey. John |“ Kaloolah was favorably received by the public, 
8 of an ancient English family, ani woe tiseed'in 1850 by The Border, othe 


the practi of his profacion. Ho thon, erged in 

ion, 

[ai Aone sete health and in part by the 
adventure, determined to make a tour of 

exploration to the interior of Africa. 

prevent however, from penetrating farther 


than the States, After an excursion in 
Bane senecorl borne 





hy A Nesey 


fome quiet st the usages of civilization, 
mata wegtevi ee of the 
farnishes some valuable on munici- 


Tan 
au 
i ie 
2 32 ee 
ue 
: a 
3 AF 


ie 
i 
E 
f 
i 


A 
: 


: 


a 
5 
5 
Fy 


Placer, He soon after married and 


iy 
F 
i 
rl 
Hi 


A LION I TH PATH, 
on the morning of the 


sixth, 
ied by Kaloolsh and the lively Clefenha, 
the bank for a final reconnoissance of the 


re 


beauty of the scene, and the promise 
view a higher crag, we moved along the 

ee a eee ‘two miles from 
our camp. At this point the line of the bank curved 


the river so a8 to make « beetling promon- 
ser eae ee ee ‘The 


tio ‘ite on the brink, of 
rangerckred Seth ugar fa ore the tore 
Sse free THIAS ir ct esha itty Ee ay 


an ‘up, mostly, 

‘vistas immense columns of leaves and 
flowers. The stems of some of were 
traly wonderfal: one, from whieh 
bunches of scarlet berries, had, not unfreq: h, 
stoms as large as @ man's ~ In 
hugs plant of this kind, ascending with an 

lable prodigality of lignin, by innumerable convolu- 
tions, wor itwelf a 


“ Perhaps,” I replied to Kaloolah’s inquiry, “ there 
is a storm . and they are gone to seek a 
shelter deeper in the wood.” 


ial ger on Sate 
out ro: ight 
down from above on flood Berg ort There was 


water; 
lustrous stillness in the sir; not 
prognostic of any commotion among 





















el E sud Le 

pe Hae Ene a lee nu gic tesdides 

Sel ae stele ngs Ena] te 7 ‘e 

aul te He rere Be a 

bt al RT ne MGT be 
He GH aE AG 
Laas tay Hm ere Giuilnaiesi iil 
Heil eee sua eine 

Harlin ey eu sIea Te eal 








3 #33 Het wut ile say! a FH 
i ea ital | 3 au (a a ae ih ay ited Ff SE a 
He AGE EE if ay it HE at th He H i 
ae i a ith i if ne ail Hatha uy He i: 
ne ii 


38 vi ifs alee 
fil ui i i Hel palette zi HH 





at ani TE Hl acy Hie si aaa ie Hie 
Hee te ai ae Bn NE at at a 
Hei iiilen Le oe 
Gee ie TERR ne i eel ee 
, nel ane in a ear it Cn bien 
i rg 


ill ies quail 


Teormneive 


fl inl in 


i 
: 















kins of an important Hie are fed by an fount, 
the Margaret eee rene aepeshyelotinl aateanetan ¥ 
Lr pM ecamalar mt f Lat ethag Oottecd bs ar oe ay 
scripts. In th of these works Mr, | In coldest weather there “ 
ae Tecan ae es Oe a Tn fogs he breathes a air, 
a preserved extent I | So sacred is his that no thing 
fim dike nije nd Stn ic | Gece chat beeen 
am 
pl illustrations froma various other sour In | The Of is Lob fo apt frou weal 
‘he translated « series Some shady wood in Summer is his 
eimens of Foreign pana Belial a frei ia Witter be exh ; 
tion to Bthies, including a Surcey of | The wind shall sweep his chamber, and his loom 
ae ca = ‘The birds and insects, weave content at it. 
years sinoe oar an inde- | hove his head the brond Skies’ beauties 
pg pac ay and edited & | Teneath, the ancient of the aasiego 
weekly reform The in the inte- | 4 glance at that, unveil Gre 
fai ae neue of che Sc sdorials  Oae he 
now 
Unitarian chireh in Liverpool, lately under the | Kings tenet saspaat it, oF Nobles have, 
care of the Rev. John Hamilton Thom, the bio- | ‘They are the of some handsome 
tamer pense He, of Himself, is beautiful and 
. Channing is not of the Strauss or Parker 
(ay SO ee ee WILLIAM HAGUE, 
irmative, at times approachi: we borgian- Willia 
fam in his disposition ta unite a bold spiritual’ phi- pte tee Go 
Leet ea gh eS ee I Sk RO co 
tion. has rare talents as an extempore speaker 
Wi Exrery also a 
of the late Dr. Channing, from whom his name is 
derived, and the son of Dr. Walter Channing, the 
medical writer and professor at Harvard, is the 
author of two series of Poems, published in 
ton in 1848 and 1547; of aseries of 
essays in The Dial of 1844, entitled Youth of the 
Post Painter ; head itful ob- 
servations, + between a 
Artist, a Catholic, and a Critte, niblished in 
1847; and The Woodman and other 1849, 
‘There is much originality and a fine vein of re- 
flection in both this author's prose and verse,— 
touching on the themes of the a 
nature, and the poetic visionary. 
‘THE PORT. 
Each day, new Treasure brings him for his share, 
So rich he is he never shall be poor, 
His lessons nature reads him o'er and o'er, 
As on each sunny day the Lake its shore, 
others for of id 
Teeicteari taute eee 
eye pied alle ead 








His way is always though seeming rough. 





i ‘Montaigne 
; SS darntie = coltcgi oa petepelei 259 
disorder 


‘Truth to nature, then, is beauty, and to study the 

Perel pees into shoe and develope the taste 
mbys 

apiker means of cultivating good taste, isto study 


the 
wa 
every thi 


fining and quicke ennty. 

1 live,” said one, “ the more familiar I become 
vik tee id me. Qh! that I could feel 
the keen zest of which I was le when aboy, 
and all was new and fair!” “The longer I live, 
says another, “ the more charmed I become with the 
Denuties of a picture or a landscape.” The first of 


‘The other, regarding the universe as a 
lendid system of directed his attention to the 
ing signified ; loved to late the moral qua- 

lities which were beaming forth from all the sur- 

rounding i ig and thus eat a3 before him a 

boundless field, ever glowing with new colors and 

fresh attractions. 


Or a 
cession of sounds, which familiarity woul 
pel. The other, as he studied the expression of cha- 
racter, which those tones gave forth, as for instance, 
with the loud sound he associated the ideas of power 


Tor Rev, Samuel 
Church, of New York, is a member of a family 


F 
i 
z 
i 
Z 
| 


f 
J 
H 


ie 
sf 


i 
i 
HE 


i 


PH 
i 
iH 


i 
al 
Eafe 


cf 
2 
i 
= 
Fe 
2 
z 
Fa 
Fs 
ze 


i 
i 
bi 


A 
if 
led 
7 
a 
i 
it 
Boa 


of the New di the Federalist 

in Poltdee und of the’ Avra golol 
Pete fred ra! from the ee son 
Stephen, in eration from the progeni- 
tor, John Osgood. He died at the age of seventy- 
four, in 1829, havi Ted's Saigciavecr canoe 
the minister of Mi His publications were 
numerous 


third son, Christopher of Andover, in 
the seventh ohn dn, tea ae 


town, Mass., Ai 1812; became a 
Fees rat and coniplaead Ee 
education at Cambridge in 1835. 





ere rt 3 sah aie $ ee £283 Pili f Fi: 
Ne ee eT EE 
Hy He Hpte il Hil anita 
Hie i i ue hie i i iat lint ; 
te = a ; 

Fi 


Het a RUE ery ee tt 
ie a iil shat ae Halted ft Hn fe 


i 3h PLD ih i TR ait Anau Hii 
ae SO ere 


ie in at ea: i i 8 


. 
anes 





ini itn pau th age isits 

meliy oe wees incall til le saints 
le Hae ii te hee eae ie teal pe Dale 
aie sill jueaeeeuestlh ale ee ae 
Bie RIGHT HOH er atid 


Ly 


fs 


ee 
ee 


ic 


Hele 
He 


33 igail 





all 





ne ee 

: ne fae 

ne i te 

eet Hae i 

ee 
& a: 3 eT i 

2 THE RUE RHEE 


H 
As 
ine Hy ali 
a ide ils ait Ht hil 
HEIN DNITAE 
aa 
i aun : : pe teat i 
Picts tat itarar ty ae 
its aie: 2 ji214 gf ie i. 
Pinata Oar 
8 a3 ay Phe Ee 23; Hie | 
Breede erieeeree 


‘THE ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 


“has helped to form me so much as that 
Seach ere hited up voice amidst 


an Augustine and 

Channing? Although 
soon, if ever, ter and opinions may still differ, 
charity has gai eentue 
ries, Those who are considered the follow- 


tho requiem as his remains were borne through the 
thrompud wizoota'of the sity of is 


. 
THE ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHTLA- 
DELPHLA, 


Friends, 
Dusiness a5 an apothecary, and Jacob Gillians, a 
dentist. These gentlemen were in the habit of 
Thomas Say and William Bartram at the 


plan by which reunions of these and other friends 

SD fete gra exlie ton. aniepee 
: was 

Mosara, Speakman and Gilliams at tho residence 

of the first named on the evening of January 25, 


1812, at which the followi were it 
by invitation—Dr. Gernrd. Eroost Dr. Camillus 
Mahon Man, 


1 following, and 
was by general consent added to the number 
original members, An upper room was rented, 
and the collection of books and s| nae oe 


‘Tuomas Say was born in the city of Philadelphia, 
July 27, 1787. He was the son of Dr. Benjamin 
Say, a bie Hips introduced him into the 
in business Speakman. 
injudicious endorsements the partnership became 
involved, and the business brought to a close. 
Mr. afterwards became curator of the Acade- 
my. simple habits of life, while thus ocen- 
ied, are pleasantly deseribed by Dr. Ruschen- 
rer: 

“ He resided in the Hall of the Academy, where 
he made his bed beneath a skeleton of a horse, and 
fed himself on bread and milk; occasionally he 
cooked a chop or boiled an cee ese wort 
to Tegard eating as an inconvenient interruption 
to scientific pursuits, and often expressed a wish 





Fa 
= 
z 
i 
z 
é 
z 
z 
Fs 


i 
i 
E 
: 
i 
F 


i 
i 


# 
Z 


r 
4 
=e 
é 
i 
ee 
BH 
g 
6 


g2EE 
i 
zt 
i 

E 
He 


H 
i 
i 
ii 


ia 
ie 
d 
ib 


1807 he was sent by Louis 
of Holland, to Paris to pursue his favorite studies 


the British cruit 
a Rt ore Uehee "ba, Bis 
vi wever, captured 
iy. Branch grivaleenteel icecad aeta arate 
kirk, where the naturalist was iny until 
the French gov: 


phia in 1810, 
After the abdication of Louis B he 
ined porma- 














; in 


i 


an Gri 


te a 
iii one ee 


er 

























Caicos 
i a ie flat | & ie weit tit i 

ile eae nr ate Ai ile 
a a ic 
Hae cr uy Hee i Hy a ie all 








Bai i 4 pa ian 3 
ie ee ee ae 
Hall (ee i nae Hl fenalis 
12 if PY is iG H ie ul unn it ae ait nee 3 hie lis 
alles Ge F saul Pela sey il e eat 4 

i sg2eFee- a eA 5 

be Heidi real Lgini titan tie Hae 
: ae ia oe u a pee Ge ili bons) goat. aA Tr ane Zz 
: sae ME rae ar wed it ena dy 
ot ei fe H aif ranted al Ae 
ia all if das He Dene eaieeate Hi i ft 

ali veil fale il au fundies igi 

tie a ieee unica rl 
st ee Hare Hie Uist ale 
JA pn Gu suisse iilee 








FRANCIS BOWEN, 579 
‘To make the bargain sick!" ae all are fools,” th said, 
Tampa Roa Soret oad 
Begin, The clock eeiting cae” “ ester? toagis her lover's, = 
Heseate himsalf, and left aud 7 Rhema gt er orr 
‘His finger wags with all ite t, creation shan't me!” 
Bie ea See ee ae pe 4 hs Ciena atiints eho 

bi And from ry 


Bat was not 


By er ned in, to see 
eres Sart ertus Mrs, B—? 
‘Wien she come, a8 you suppose? 


“ Hore she gocs—and there she goes!” 
“ Heref—where !"—the an in surprise 
Hia © followed with her 
“Son, pee keeares 
‘Those words—that, 
ees een. wi — partes 

“ Hore she gocs—and there she goes |" 
indo Sys he eg legen, 
And rushed to him and seized hia arm ; 


He shook her off, and to and fro 
Be eae te or 


And with more furious tone arose 

The, “ here she goes—and there she goes!" 
“ Lawkal” screamed the wife, “I'm in a whirl |" 
Ran down and bring the little girl; 

aa aus darling, and who knowa 

“ Here she goes—and there she gos!” 

“Lawks! he is mad! what made him thus? 
Good Lord! what will become of ast 

Run for a doctor—run—run—rao— 

For Doctor Brown and Doetor Dun, 

And Doctor Black, and Doctor White, 

And Doctor Grey, with all your might.” 


‘The doctors came and looked and eee, [oan 
And shook their heads, and paused and pon: 5 


Honey hae roared 
him"—* him, brother !” 


The eighth, just come ATER 
verdict 


The lat produced a bo box 

[A cattals cure for garth 
“Thad a patient 

Quoth he, “ Ila Fo ee 
Fray mee borer bed 
‘Three dozen ve 
Td 


a Hore aha gosecmand theri ahd gialP 





But “ here she gore—and there she goes I" 
pe One help him! what 


A customer I've got ; 

zB ‘re must do our best to ave ohn? 
while I shave 

Ba bertn tobei bapa 


“ A woman is no judge of pysies 
Not even when her baby is 
He aust be 


“ Who!” 
“ The gentlemen—I mean the two 
Fie mabe poy Siar below!” 


“on Lowy se ‘Siuet oe bleed! 
For hans the knayes, I'm mad indeed!" 


Proressor of Moral Phil in Harvard Ool- 
American Re- 


Spt ie the Mei mt es 


edition of Sito ot Vino eth 


Tn Jannury, 1843, he became editor of the 
‘Ainerican rier, and discharged the 


tation. 
in the winter of 1840 and 1640 Mr, Bowen 
Padi the Lowell [nstitate in Boston 3 
of Lectures on the Application of Meta- 





: ie ee 


























ue Hie gi 2f2% a 
FS ie He E F ee 
a ani #3 i oe Sea Ht Hilal 
fe Hit an dn) san 
Fi i Hie iil pu 2» aT tnd 
lige Hetil 
ae Zl elie Peer 
ha ioe rai tical 
Pee TUM TEe 








He has 
been for many a resident of the city of Ni 
aay asst io green pr 


In 1889 he published a novel ak 
ofan Brave Taey the rat vc. This 
rants Trp kon of Tee Peon the as 

me or 
of Bimakeiag, 104 The scene of these novely is 
laid in the éicy of New York at the present day. 
The nt a humorous re of various phases 


of ly iy and feqwently pay the sativical 


Mr. Briggs is the author of a number of feli- 
citous humorous tales and sketches, contributed to 
the Knickerbocker and other magazines, He has 
wit hare appeared a Pesaas's Mow Mape- 
wi ve in Putnan’s 
zine, with witch he has been connected = Se 

ublished in a choice volume of selec- 
Nantucket, 


stor blished in pamphlet form, with the title, 
Working ra Paseo, Lh iner. It gives 
an account of a to Liverpool in the literal 
vein of a description the forecastle. 

Ax COMEURCPTRD BAXQUET—PROM LIFE OF A Lioxen, 
Among the luxuries which the captain had pro- 
rip oe ens bad pene was a fine green 
turtle, which was not likely to suffer from exposure 


all the 
sheep, and poultry had been eaten. A few ds 
ec 


biscuit for twenty- 
to devour his full 


ideas clustering round a tureen of 
all my hy. Confound them, 
out Fe Altes Dr ay 
would not have envied their soup, but 


fe 
i 
ue 

Fag 
ui 


i 
i 
i 
} 
z 
e 


= 
fe 
i 
atk 
Ff 
E 
BE 


2 
! 
fs 
i 
: 
z 


H 
a 
4 
a 
: 
i 


if 
til 
ve 
tte 
i 
ius 
‘iH 


ik 
i 
: 
: 
i 


Es 
He 
bee 
ae 
il 
nt 
E 
tie 


At 
i 
4 
i 
E 
= 


FF 
rE 


ae 
i 
: 


fterwards the passen- 
bed bla ishony Ape Lew mi ino h ol 


nce we left Liverpool, ‘They had dined 


He thinks how is my arm 

"Neath its whit ved sod jemelleciout, 
And wishes me some dreadful 

Hearing the merry corks explode, 
Meanwhile I inly curse the bore 

Of hunting still the same old coon, 
And sary outside the door, 

In golden quiets of the moon, 
‘The winter wind is not so cold 


2 
@ 
: 


CHRISTOPHER PEASE ORANCH, 

©. P. Crancu, a son of Chief Justice Cranch, 
was born at A) dria, in the District of Colum~- 
bia, March 8, 1813, After being at 
ene din tee iene mlb erp in 1881, be 
studied divinity st bridge University, and 
was ordained. In 1844 he published a volume 


at Philadelphi is marked 
itful vein bf spiritual Deion Be 


: 
i 


ix 
il 
SES 
oe 
Hl 
7 
FE 


i 


She has brought me flowers to deck my room, 
Of sweetest sense and brill: ? 

She knew not that she was the while 
‘The fairest flower of all to me. 

Since her eoft eyes have looked on them, 
What tenderer beauties in them dwell! 
Since her fair hands have placed them there, 

O how much sweeter do they smell! 
a 
1) Ty an . 
icvcekantites lonesomencss, 
A shining star amid my night. 


But in this room glide sommer hours, 
Fince she, the fairest flower of all, 
‘Has garlanded my heart with flowers, 


HENRY THEODORE TUCKERMAN, 

Tue Tuokeeman family is of English origin, and 
Denied ate SOG) Bm pearieati its 
count, as al 

seen and Ppornentnt inserintiana® 'y the 
mother’s side, Mr, Tuckerman is of Irish decent. 
The name of the family is Keating. In Macaulay's 
recent hi he thus speaks of one of her ances- 
tors 25 op a military deputy of James II, 
in his persecution of the Protestant English in 
Treland in 1686:—* On all questious which arose 
in the Privy Couneil, Tyrconnel showed similar 
violence and ity. John Keating, Chief- 
Gi ea 

lity, integrity, ty, represent 

with great mildness, that 


mother was also related to and partly educated 
with another rh dere Unitarian clergyman, 
Joseph Stevens Buckminster. 


i : 








none 

© It is still represented Ddelonging toseve- | ‘Tj 
ral of the gentry. In the seventeenth 
toave intern sri the Portanne fy Gat af Hi one 
the Acie fae repreeented ae it Earl of Fi Hh 

mw ml ‘or 
teseue. Previons to Specs ct eml- 
grated to Ina of the ity of 
wolg, by In Luneberg in 1887, | * Mr. 
allusion ts made to one of this ter Tuckerman, whe | magazine 
te mentioned an the fast abbot of the monastery of Ki Amertean 
fen; he was chosen to the chapter in 1621, and, at the exme | Literary 
time, held the Eee eR of court at Wolfonbut- | Examtner, 
tell, lected. 


k 
H 
: 
! 
; 





are GHEE 


Pit i ie! 
i 


ue 
nein 


2 HL Let 


a 


of the 





. 


riper to an 


3 
(=| 
iE 
ae 
af 


GHUS 
Ht 
i 


on the artists and authors of the: 


@f Conomodore Silas Tale, ot 








FE ane a ne Fe flat nul He Pile 

| ra TP Tee ue 
g fuk us ine ee er oi sf ing 
SG a nn ada 
a a ff 
SIRE GTA e aL Merriam EHH RE 


In grottocs, see the hair of Venus creep 
Round dripping stones, 

Or thread the endless catacombs where sleep 
Old martyrs’ bones 

OS ee a 
son 

But not « thought rests on his swarthy brow 
Of Time's vast spoil, 

His massive limbs with noblest seulptures vie, 
Devoid of eare 

Behold him on the sunny terrace lie, 

drink the air! 

With gestures free and looks of eager life, 
A 8 lies the seria strifo 
ok gieeancer till eo 
The shaggy Calabrese, who lingers near, 
At Christmas comes to play 

His reeds before Madonna every year, 
Then hastes away. 

Now mark the rustic pair who dance apart; 
What i 


Her clipsome bale the Roman heart 
‘That lights her eyes: 


Tis rapid steps are timed by native zeal ; 
The manly chest 

Sola with ols ed oy, Fra en oan, ta} 
Each motion's 


‘What artless pleasure her calm smile betrays, 
Wi keen 


They know when chestnut groves repast will yiel 
Where vineyards ; wet, 
Before their saint at morn they trustful kneeled, 
Why doubt or dread? 
A bearded Capuchin his cowl throws back, 
Fi by ane nigh ; ae 
Saxon boy with nurse upon his track, 


Still o'er the relies of the Past arbund 
The Day-beams pour, 

And winds awake the same continuous sound 
They woke of yore. 

‘Thus Nature takes to her embrace serene 


What Age has olad, 
And all who on her gentle bosom lean 
She maketh glad. 


TRUE XSTIUSIAEM—PROM A COLLOQUIAL LECTURE ON weW 
RXOLAND PatILOSOMnY. 
Let us 


the and er of true 


strengthened by exercise, 

dent and sacatiive heart? Its ie Lae 

hat it cannot famine, Xe rather id acl ‘and moon 
t radiance upon warms 

Sewer into bloom; It sete free no Seibound foun. 

tains, Dr. Johnson used to say, that an obstinate 

ratio nality pray tated Haier EEPay Doce 

Unsing oar roars ull Ureathing Sar detedios at 
ing our an: ny 

shrine of nature! There are tifluenoes Which eo- 





Reason is not the only interpreter of life. The foun- 
tain of action iain the feelings Religion itself is but 
a state of the affections { once met a beautiful 
it woman in the valley of the Arno, and asked 
¢ number of her children.” I have three here and 
ad ccsnerel testing mad ee raaneem Sie 
manner of touching au ve ity 
peeppacegies sich nated a asa nature 
is, it is in the highest degree natural rare pow- 
ers ahould be exeited by vol and spontaneous 
Who would not urged to high 
achievernent, if he knew that every beanty his can- 
bleh in beeainah ag pedi am enV 
° inspiration of his lyre, would find an 
ud breasts? Lord. 


uv 


z 
2 
= 
E 
. 
AE 
i 
ct 
Fil 


al 
A 
is? 
ie 
Al 
i 
i 
= 


Tan 
man of acquisition cites a 


i 
: 


i 
& 
: 
i 
Bae 
ot 


TT 


The aquatic birds in St. James's Park, with their 
v 


ari ay well detain loiterers of 
maturer than the chuckling infants who feed 
them crumbs, oblivious of the policeman’s eye, 
and the to see an 

wild duck swim to the of the lake, and open 
its bill with the airs of a pet canary, 


is ‘A most agreeable surprise; nor ean an 

rae A ad ng pb raat ee when leaf. 
yield to ag 

(Cho hime ure pratoed by Evelyn); but wood: 


FEE 8 
f 
| 
rt 
1 

HI 







é 
= 
F 
i 
E 
: 
: 


He 
i 
ale 
Foie! 
a 
HH 
eraeut 
ilk 


Z 
i 


a 
| 
é 
ui 
ie 
f 


| 


enchants the sight of all town associations, The 
room where this vista of nature in her e 

Tish opens, is nae iin nate labis 

man, enjoyed le 

Stsers air of sadness 


and urbanity were yet in every ob- 
ject around. ‘The wintry «un ogleam mellow 
v mahogany, 

It a if reese a ty on the famous cis 
tinn, niece tints of Watteau, and made the 
bust found in the sea near Pozzuoli wear a any 
hue. the left 


Fi 
Fe 
: 
§ 


the sensation of comfort 
A ate weccin asmeaineiooee ae 
Fixes 


with half-forgotten 
Reynolds to whisper of the dinner where 
Garrick and Burke discussed the and the 
senate; Milton's agreement for the zale of “ Paradise 
Lost, 


endless A nes, 

medals, and choice volumes, whose very names would 

inspire an affluent talker in this most charming ima- ‘ 

aes Ses colloquy and a social 
LT noticed in o vase over the fire- - 





CHARLES T. BROOKS, 
Onances T. Brooxs was born at Salem, Mi 
June 20, 1818. At Harvard, which he en| 
in rca cs ciells stodious 





aL! 
Hie 
ie 
TEE 


5 
é 
2 
a 
g 
a 
e 


as ty 


z 


a narrative entitled, 
on the in, and Bight Weeks in 
ia, which is still in MS, Among other unpab- 
lished writings by Mr. B: is a choice transla~ 
vera stant, The £0, Opinion, dations, ond 
versity studenta, iy tions, 
he has_ printed several 


pages, 

Mr. Brooks is also, besides his quaint and 
felicitous translations from the minor German 
poets, the author of numerous occasional yerses— 


a sories of Festival, New Year, and Anniversary 
addresses, all ready Set Ptah 0 Seqoast 
infusion of a humorous spirit. 
NEWPORT—TROM AQUIDNECK. 

Fail, island-home of Pence and Liberty! 
Hail, breezy cliff, seal 
Here man heavenward lifted 

eye, ia -- 

Free ns the: and t 
o thou who here ats home, 
And ye who one brief hour of summer roam. 
These wi shores to breathe the braving breeze, 


And feel the of the akies and sena, 
‘Think what exalted, sainted minds once found 
The sod, the sand ye trend on, holy ground! 





tytn yah 

in the 

Pe teas Bouse pertane is ir, 

aeet Lepttetnas etn dled 
ink how a “musing 868, 

Burned with the poten Clem >t ! 

‘Whut work God witnessed, and that lonely shore, 

* Nos. 045, 258. 


¢, doubtfal plodders of this lowly road, 
Call: “From thy wateh-tower say, for thou canst 


pee, 
How fares the wavering strife of liberty!” 


And the still air and the green sod, 

By thee beneath Paap bar in musing, trod,— 

And these then wal'a, where oft was caught 

‘The electric th, heroic 

setae ates a 
ry e 

All these, with Bec of oo God,—to-day 

Come to the soul, and * 


And on thy head shall rest the crown of life.” 


‘LIVES ON MEANING MENDELASONS'S MINSTMONRR NTGTT'S DREAM 
PREFORMED BY THE GERMANIANS AT NEWIORT. 

Tt haunts me still—I hear, I see, once more 

That moonlight dance of fairies on the shore. 

1 entihe mash twlukling light dk, 

see the ‘twinkling, li 

Wakes in the elfin folk a merry din; 


‘The silver moon-beam sleeps upon the hill; 
fl nly music, fonts 


is antics in the o'erhanging trees,— 


Ariel's floats breeza— 
he Midsummer ‘Fights Dream to me, 








‘The Sabbath is here | 
Give to the Futher, whose blessing 
‘The fields are econfoasing! 


Of sickles, and trea 


‘The Sabbath is here! 
‘The seed we in fond hope 
Will one day rise, glowin; 

ti dost ow welervo 
we leave 
‘We trust to receive it 
In glory above! 


are sowing 
SYLVESTER JUDD, 


day, was one of the first settlers of the place and 

the son of the Rev. Jonathan Judd, the first 

clergyman of Southam and for sixty years 

pastor of that flock. father of our author, 

also Sylvester Jndd, though “om in trade in 
fed hi 


the at Westham) ar himself so 
varoals study that fe at @ considera~ 
ble knowledge 


polit 
of Aaron Hall, of Norwich, a man of good repute 
in the Revolutionary era. 
Sok to, passed ne ae of the 
rect lim 3 early years at 
under the usual earnest influences 


of the old New 
become un- 


CYCLOPADIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 


Ie state aes eee 
and li of a 

ami College, Ohio. “Feeling and thinking thus,” 
ra his cotton he see I could not 
become connected 


he became to supply the pulpit of 
Unitarian church in At 





fancy, mat passed 
these its eee ee es 
fitted for a pretty general Unitarian circulation; 
that it might be of some use in the hans of the 


The above will sufficiently explain its wera 
el or romance, in the 
and inar- 


the minnte study of which in 
accessories, the author 











Syivesret Jupp 
Tn the same ee OUR Ore 
‘* 
ily, a Rus Urban and 


vat and noble, 
ij i and 


the career of a young man 
and town incidents of Ne 


is A RE: Cee DI Se 


mood indi. 
vidoal essay style, its perusal will well reward 
oes eee 
one ies 0 

opens with another in the same vivid, minutely 
truthfal manner. 

So acepiten 2 ress pabishad vos of Mr. 
Judd, he cor a dramatic prod in five 
elena eae 
wi man’ 
with several . 





























E hath be rll 


ar PtH Site 
Hae null 


allt 
Hi ee He Hi it 
Heal Blain aun Hs ieiiag ihe 











aac eras 
# ay aes i a 2%: TF giu f aeetilan i ile u ie 
EDR ete be iii 28t Witedlin vis 
g 8205 2a2scas2°5 ia H 2 2 Dadi cei f fala 
Bot ae iB Ht : fl ae fe pie ie 
- Bei an22es 2 = 3 2 eh Heist gatiteis 
Haale a FAs; Baie HE HEHE E 


ae aa 


= ui HAE paul Su tit | 


"gece a 
ieee at 
=F 

—_ 
was not 
in his 
tis fee iblished 
ate 
he 





Gu He ted 
ae ey ggciesegi a 238 az 2 fe 
if Aaa nti ee 
if denis fale Hp Aria la Hay ee Hf 
iat AE u a 24 3823 FS = 52: i iH aye be 
ne mange Eee ae sill 
Pune ilaaeh a, Ae BUH ABBE Teadiinl 
ia HHT at Haul Eu Figen ee i 
Balla cue ue gad Papal 
it le staal a iad ae 
Hil LEE ae iat fg nate 
i HH ee j Hi if La eegs yiaeigs 2H sat iigks quasi ays 
# : 4 2 Seen Ge a j 
Bar at ul LE Ea Guu ee a 
Bel Hi Hi Heim Seer HE | pretty trey 
ee SHARMA 8 du ly Fubued ee aH iH 


ence that name—to be # versifier, is in these 
days a shame, and not to be one is a shame. 
ix, it is a shame for any man to take airs or 
himself on a talent now so common, 80 much 
ed to rale and grown absolutely mechanical, and to 
be learned like arithmetic; on the other hand, 
for these same reasons, it is a shame not in some de- 
Be ic powe ty or have it for occasions at com- 

is convenient sometimes to turnsome trifle 
from a foreign language, to hit off a scrap for a cor- 


erialeanstatcetaras tran caty 
v m afew verses alway 
in his mind, constructed for the im bend 


easily in a-propos to. ; or they may 
be very common verses made, upon 
which an appropriate travestie easily be su- 


induced; or, finally, their places may be 
By the actoal rreraee sf some author, bale cor 
however, be, if but little known, which 
be travestied impromptu. This will be better 
understood by an instance, and as I am now making 
no secret of the matter, I will take those well-known 
lines of Moore :— 


Valo was that man—and falso as Fain, 
Who said, were be ordained to rau 


Mile would Gaal that he Rad done. 

r eh io oeaieeernes 

Fer of tie fe to : 
‘Wasted un’ ly. 

Now, vee sap love in I 
am a despairing lover—or bey ogi mi one 
for the present, and my griefs may Site 
this same measure, eal eiitied many of these same 
words, as to leave no \d for any claim to author- 
ship for me in the ing stanza :— 

‘Vain are the hopes, abt fhlee as vain, 
That tempt me weary 

Prt ed ae 

oii Seen 
‘Trifling with hearts all carelessly. 

And now take the same change the 
circumstance (0 something Steel ns possible. 
fam a flaming patriot, the is at our gates, 
and Tam to excite my fellow e mato arms It 
will go to the self-same tune and — 

Oar cou and not fn vain, “ 
Her cht! ren are prepared to Tan 








i 
f 
fl 


f 

E 

ee 

i:t 

be = 

i 
i 


arr 

Hun 

EMG. 
Fut 

ik it 

ef a 
4 
HH 
i 


i 
Fi 
z 
2 
a 


ing, with the fale cages 2 ne the follo: 
9 visi poetry, 
from Samson ieee 118, omit- 
ting the noxt three, and going on to line 190;— 


See how ho lies at random, carelessly diffused * * © tn 
lavish habit, weeds, Lp ae | 


o 
oyes 5 ean this be he, that beroko, that 
iret east could withstand who tore fhe ile as the 
Hon tears 
wWoapouless male 


| 


PAHT 
ol Fe 


g225 

: Pe ie ble ea rs wate 
aegieieeeed Bk TTT Hey font i *H ae 
PE Honudiah tn 
ate iy ayy ila ata i nua 


ely ! HEEFT eee wy 3 
oe 























if 


F THEE Re 


wi : i 5 s 3: fe 5% $222 23 ar FI rH ef 
Ua ceana E i ui 
el Ga ag 


salt teeter ag 
Mine leh ge 
gr ae 


‘ 


Under this act, Governor pees 
pore red sma 


i 
a : 
ees 
fale i 

, Hie 


x 
i 
: 
j 
: 


pte This 





strictive the regula 


system of trading mor 4 
tions of the West India Company, and the domestic 
fest of thaiananeatips, ehh, a5 re 
protect: 





2 
Be OE 


: 


is time, he does 


fi 
Hi 


B 
H 
e 
] 


l 
FF 


i 


F 
ee 


F 
es: 


Z 
F 
i 
é 
e 


of the United States at Japan. Se 
he did not accept; and he still 
ee ce the Port of New 








; # 


After his ordination, Mr, Noble was settled for 
4 time in North Carolina, in a parish on the 
Albemarle river. Still devoted to eit 


Alleghanies. In 1844 he became rector of a 
church at Catskill, on the Hudson, where he 


we 


An ainple record of this intercourse is 
served in Mr, Noble's eloquent memorial of his 
companion, modestly bearing its title from the 


ey: moka Fe ee 
RL os eae Penge yan 
Miscellaneous Writings: 1 of his Life, 





es 


s ie : uh 
HOHE eaata ie if i? ant iy me 
Banu ii 31331 ne Fe ai SHik 











& if ne ylty . z 
ar ies i i yf ae dea 
fe i Ht ce bie He 
a ee 3 ri s=apeeey Heli 
AGaL! te ‘ipl We ant 
He pena : 


g HET Huth Halal tn Hae 








ge Ee aera 
Hien ea reireeels 
oe 3 uu Be oH pane ial 4 
de Rene ie 
Se aif Ri Hin Btuy HH a 
iti i iy ine ee ant 
‘ HiRes PER ee 
EE enSTE ET ike 
ae ce i ene it a a iB Rea “5 
Ha He a PSHE EAU Hele fea teri 
IP ee tee uc ape EEL EH 
ee ean ay aaa 
Huh Haul nee ited TAGE EAB) iB i 





At there is so much that is 
et ray notte ise the iy 
© consciousness we can thas 


become 
ritual, we shall find the rea! to be less 
and the 


emory 

will be pri us as an hour of actual experience, 

bf) oper ec iLL grow mi 

us No, wa would not willingly lose this Power of 
. 


go ied and 


to go, seeing that we shall not be wi 


rated those we leave behind, We will toil in 


cistern 
of our life, may we lie down in the light of that 
faith which makes so beautiful the face of the dying 
Christian, and has converted death's ghastly silence 
toa we rise to a holier 


to us than in this lif Where not the partition of a 
shadow or a doubt ehall come between. 


7.8, ARTHUR > 


‘Was born in 1809, near Newb Orange coun- 
ty, New York, *h 1817, his mes removed to 





Baltimore, where he lived till 1841, when ho re- 
moved to Philadelphia, where he has sines resided. 

His boyhood, as we learn from a brief autobio- 
graphy pretixed to one of his books, was passed 





&' 
= 
Z 
zB 
ae 


ut 
: 
a 
‘ 
iy 


z 
i 


5 

a 

} 
see 


ings, 
Hag, Oey eee tae ee 
the little porch in front of the house, in 
slender girl, who had noticed my entrance 
awaiting my arrival. 


: 


i 


eat i 


A uick bark almost like an 

Peay pred temtetg) sudden as 
ition, the form of an immense dog loomed 

joorway. At the instant when he was about to 
8 light hand was laid upon his shaggy neck 

and a low word 

“Go in, Tiger,” said the girl, not ina voice of 


” 
authority, Sc a ber penile cases ay Oe ee 
ness ike would be obeyed; and, aa she 

she lightly bore upon the animal with her 


as at first. “It's good six miles from here.” 

«A long distance; aud I'm astranger,and on foot,” 

* We give s list of most of those writin; 
thelr s—Sketehes 


ten Ore po and Shadows of Beal Life, i 
eee i ie cree 


‘4 
2 ; 
3 
a2 


i 
a 
{ y 
: 
. 
a 


j 
d 
i 
a 
ft 


5 
i 
i 
j 


i 
i 
i? 
if 
i 








Fu beyles payed 
i: | i | fone ay tl 
HIDES PROS tid 
LE hii uaa cai! 1 ie 
a E rag ne Witalsaaa 33 
F i un g& ee Pied | 
idea tel an, RATE 
aWracigttl|t ditid plat 
jue Phrase all inl 
PiTHL LE Fey sayuby: § 43 eaqaggil gg ipe! ie 
Sa EUR ee ae ie 
pag tis Bue | Tas efibeis Tipe! 
ata a lgeuiit | Edie nena ie 
He Coa tater eile Ho aaiueaeil 
pag! Hines naa u nile oie aed alag 
redhat a His Wael: 3 Tite at 5 ef E inl 
oe te tel eb Grape ene ag es ela 





Beats the ehill air in 
A dreary of dole: 
my feet the smokes, 
As through the fields I stroll, 
An awning broad of many 4 
bots tae DAA, ba DLE ceray 
id than Ttalian skies 


en 
{ Bright with the death of day; 
| As in the sun-bow’s radiant braid 


tiny ho 
The ericket’s bugle iain 
is Autumn's mantle torn, 


whee comes of sunshi: 
Frou childhood, Guiting fa the wild, 


linger :—from the mora 


Bright flowers va — 
‘ caught its 


And yellow, 
ee aera 
Epa at Spey tah hn oy 
‘hat, Liv ou through Wiator whit, 
ny! 
Ripens in Summer ain 
‘The varied aster tribes unelose | — 


Bright eyes in Autumn's smoky | 
And azure cup the ~~ 
Sane 








ra 


F 
se 
z 
ME 
i 


t 
He 
z 
z 
Ed 
3 


i 
H 
i 


2 


departing yeor 
bird 


: 






#F 
i 


7 
g 








were published in the popular series of Wiley 
and Putnam's Library of American Books, and 
were received with unusual favor by the pub- 
lic. In 1846 Mr. Headley achieved a still more 
Dingaphtonl malta’ uapstorn ‘ne ht Alor. 

68, re far- 
aaa to which Washington aad his Generals 
in the next was an American Cope 
A Life of Oliver Cromwell, based mainly upon 
Carlyle's researches, in 1848; The Jmperial 
Guard of Napoleon, based ne 
French history by Emile Mareo de St. re, 
in 1851; Lives of Scott and Jackson in 1852; 
A * the War ee in 1853, and 
a Ae ‘ashington, ublished in Gra- 
ham’ ine in 1854, followed in sequence 
the author's first successes in popular biography 
and history. 





A spirited volume of travelling sketches, the 
result of a simmer excursion in northern New 
appeal trim Me Headley’ fon in 1840, whdoh 
‘ , wl 
with two volumes of bil Sul chetches’ Sacred 
Mountains and Sacred Scenes and Characters, 








CYCLOPADIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE 


WASHINGTON AND RATOLROM 


No one, in tracing the hi 
deny that Providence 


than were their moral yet 
went of Haves, to See Se etre God acts 
on more enlarged plans than be Sere 

rant have any conception of, and adapts his at 


virtuous, and intelli; 
erasraneae 
asunder the fem 

ed like an iron frame-work over the people, and had 


aparte been 
Washington, he would have overthrown 
gress, as he did the Directory, and 
wer into his hands, de d 
indled the enthusiasm of this 


ue 
it 


EE 
if 
Le 


ful archy, instead of a 
renee st, Sonttnagt! — 
in the place of Bonaparte, his 
and Mergent bee would = have 
rai ction, and & prison 
hee receired Ata it did Both 
children of a revolution, both rose to the chief 
mand of i meee eventually to yng 
nation, One is country 
dom and at at once 


i 
iu 


| 


feil 


? 
; 
g 
i 
i 

Ee 


build up Liberty, that of the oth: 
the prison walls in whit 


asunder its century Domes fotters. 
Francecould have managed 
any human hand, shows an ignorance as 


ll 


“ 

a: 

Hi 
angPhie 


pcg ine on ‘thi mmocessive 
ve to 

before hep ean reach he at which our revo 

lation bee Here Liber ee 
@ 5 

vesiad daplo pom sotestnsed saad tee 

power Enrope at this en : 

finish what he a does 

its own up the 


ll 


HARRIET BEECHER STOWE 


sion men deemed eternal, and out of the and 
ambition, as well as out of the virtues of men, work 
the welfare of our race. 

LAvaverre, 


He did not shat is termed 
thee was paihleptadirarccrcevlbeic eta 
powers, 


Ss 
a 
E 
s 
5 
3 
Pr 


Left 

inwelf, he probably never would have reached 
eminence—but there could have been no 
pans for the flery yo 


man. usiastically wedded to 
tutions, no temptation could induce him to seize on, 
or aid power which threatened to overthrow them. 
Al somewhat vain and conceited, he was ge- 
nerous, self-sacrificing, and benevolent. Few men 
have passed through so many and 40 fearful scenes as 
he. a youne courtier, es into the self- 
denying, toilsome life of a general in the ill-clothed, 
ilLfed, and ill-disciplined American army—thenee 
into the vortex of the French Revolution and all its 
horrors—thenee into the gloomy prison of Olmutz, 
After a few yeurs of retirement, he on our 
shores to receive the welcome of a grateful people, 
and hear a nation shout his 6, and bear him 
from one limit ot Hes 4 et 2 ee BS ite Pa 
A fow , and with his gray hairs 
about hi gen eenecaas. he amid the red 
dents of Paris, and sends his feeble shout of defiance 
to the throne of the Bourbon, and it falls, Rising 
more by his virtue than his intellect, he holds a 
bates Sorel in the history of France, and linked 
with Washington, goes down toa greater immortali- 
ty than awails any emperor or mere warrior of the 
wai love for this deep and 

re country was abiding, 
To the Jnst his heart turned hither, and well it 
might :—his eareer of glory began on our shores— 
on ofr cause he his reputation, fortune, and 
life, and in our success received the benediction of 
the the world over. That love was returned 
with interest, and never was a nobler exhibition of 
anation’s gratitude, than our reception of him at his 
last visit. We love him for what he did for w—we 
revere him for his consistency to our principles amid 
all the chaos and revolutions of Eu ; and when 
‘we cease to of him with affection and i 
tude, we shall show ourselves unworth the 
blessings we have received at his hands, “Honor ro 
Lavaverre!” will ever stand inscribed on our temple 
of liberty until its ruins shall cover all it now con- 
‘tains. 


HARRIET BEECHER STOWE, 
Tre Sate of the Rey. Dr. Lyman Beecher, 
in about : 


was born in Litchfield, Com y the 
1812. Her elder sister, Esther potted 
born in 1800 at East Hampton, Long had 
established in 1822 a successfiil Lae 

at 


Hartford, Connecticut, With establish- 








aA Rea whither Mrs. sg 
accompani w during a 
dence, she became in’ in the of 


slavery, which has furnished the topic of her chief 


gt ee ce 
ay in 1856. ‘a 
Cabin 3 or, Life among , Op) asa 
book the press of Jewett & Co. in Boston 
in 1852. It had been previously published week 


After pasig through various hands be dies at the 


of the scenes of Unele Tom's Cabin having 
jected to as improbable, the author, in 
justification of the assailed portions, published 


se 








Me fis el ui 
al iy . : 25. : ignull 7 f : 
hs a2 tae Hy ils i = Hue 
} HAE a 3 sea # > i sR F Te Hitt ee si Hie bf] 
1 nr ee i 1) 
iG Hae 
4 iF Tdie 
& ih i il H it 
: cual | mba! 
25 Rien Heya f ius 


et almost 


done, Mas'r George,” said Aunt Titt- 
peeping in,—* browning beautiful— 
l né for dat. 

Missis let 9, By Da peks, I0 AG SG ATS 
larn her, she said. *O, go “1 


tral point of the entertainment, ee 
now to bustle about earnestly in the supper depart- 


ment. 
sper orem Hime Auld Pete. gts Soe Ga eraps Su 
away, hone: mam y ve 
Ee habs ache Ty otis. Mow Mat Genpe 
you jest take off dem books, and set down now with 
my old man, and I'll take ap the sausages, and have 
Phas dle full of cakes ou your plates in leas 
im no 
“They wanted me to come to supper in the house,” 
il Gores “bat I knew what was what too well 
for that, Aunt Chloe,” 


let snr at Gor ‘And, with, 
snk ave Geren ng rl hr age Sead 


i 





ef 
ELE 


ea 
i 
Ht 


+ 


i now, alongside Mas'r ‘tL Good Lor! 
pepe she kinder sweep it into a 
room like my kinder i know! 
0, 1 don't tell me nothin’ of dem nr 

Aunt Chloe toesed her head as one who 
she did know of the world. 
“ Well, though, I've heard you say,” said George, 


& 
& 


“ TaupposeJinny thought they were ever s0 nice,” 


said 
e t20!—didn’t she? Thar she was, show- 
ing ’em, as i soe, it's jest here, Jis 
dowtknow. Lor, the family an't ng! She 
i ¥ oeen icnow ball yor wil 
yee ou ‘our 
in yer fami dad ‘bringin’ up” Here Bone 
and rolled up her 
“T'm sure, Aunt Chloe, 1 understand all 
and privi a George. “ Ask 


if crow over him every time I meet 


this time Master George had arrived at that 


4 
fr 
g 


ae 
f 
By 
Eg 
: 
ie 


re 
i 
i 


a 
af 
4 
| 
i 


i 
i 
E 


rainy 
i | 


| 


sketch pul 
." gives the fol- 
lowing characteristic aceount of her career ;— 


“ My father is a Congrogational Ta bees 
the tne of ny Birth mete i beautiful 
town of Claremont, eo state ew Hampshire. 
Though I left this place when six years of ago, I still 
remeniber ita natural beauties, which even then im- 

me deeply. The Ashow Mountain, 

ugar River, with its fonming falls, the distant hills of 

Vermont, all are in m eat ee was 
descendel fom the 80 


*the mmlaister’s yall One was the well Known 


i 
i 
Z 
: 
| 


that any of them ever committed a disgraceful act, 
His grandmother was eminent for her medical know- 
ledge and skill, and had as much ive as is 
usually given toa country doctor, was 


& woman of fine character, who exerted he and 
sacrifice! much, Lo secure his liberal education, His 
sisters were onergetic in their codperation with their 
husbands, to seeure and improve homes among the 
White aud the Green Mountains, and Wisconsin. So 


teen, had not that health which promises continued 


life, I we seo ie it to be in 
consumption. Lam fortunate now in the 


so fav as I understand them. At 
age I commenced exertions to assist in my 
maaintenanee, and have at different times followed the 
Staited palin teat od anaes bound shoes, taught 
achool, and worked at alle Boater Inbors 
a3 a weaver in the factory, 


than any other, : 
manor my father's removal to the little town of 
you. 139 






SS am now thn propor a “The Kew Ena 
Bs 


Offering.’ Ido all editing, ean 

toad ae te egal telerp pleas can in a hurry, 
fold, cut &c. I have a little girl to 
sess one Ee He Sa ee ae tho rest, after 
it comes from the printer's h: , is all my own work. 
I employ no and depend upon no one for 
assistance. My nis four thousuud,” 


Mes. Erszanern Freres Euzet was born at Sodas 
Point, on Lake Ontario, New York, in October, 
1818, Her maiden name was Lammis. Hor fa- 


ther was a jan, Dr. William Nixon 
mis, the and the friend of Rush, whom 
strongly in person. He was of a New 


DIS hoa 
CX ELA : 
‘The poetical talent was marked in Mrs. Ellet at 


a earl She wrote verses at fif- 
ten, und in 1835 published Seon of poems. 
At the same 


: 
z 
= 
i 


EqTiit 
232! 
ze 
il 
Ppa 
za re 
i 1 


t 
z 


a 

Country, about the same time, 
Mrs. Elle leo, at tle period, contributed articles 
to the American tly Review, the North 
pea and the New York Reviews, on Italian 
ani 


i 
i 
i 
i 
z 
i 


tales and for eee. ines in New 
Philadelphia, and Charleston. In 1848 she 
her work, Zhe Women of the American 


: 








'y 
For them earth yields her all of bliss ;—for thee 
ind Heaven doth violence to its heart of love; 
Ree | thee fast, : 


E 











RUFUS WILMOT GRISWOLD. 611 
1855 he again removed to St. Louis, and edited a fond i of true vows plighted: 
weekly journal, “ The Leader,” a literary, political, Pigowing ae lle worth; : 
and family rina a By affections wasted: | scarce tasted, 
1 se ETagos aod reflecti + a There ed to many there ia not any 
a us ive , 
Sureral tranplations from the yrs of Bas! Beee on certh. 
viary. His next bliontion, Aiea, or the. New And ic power upon the hour 
Ona, in 1849, during his resi- my expiring A 
arth rou and toe oma nwa and | ihe esr 
ne mn ae, ‘ 
ined many scenes whose warmth of descrip- | ‘The fruit within its or sin, 
bn laid the pele ne to he a below et iecT tee etiiek 
language, ai ue deseriptions of natu- oo glans 
ral scenery, a! sothal mies’ nibaeiom Tk wis That cn ay ie momenta of or, 
reprinted during the same in the United | The tale I tell, prolerad ais cee 
Sines and in 1852 appeared in revised elon Deere! of stare hops cs aah 
with many judicious alterations, Mr. Hunti For mirrored In me, old what shall bs 
ton’s second novel, The Forest, was published tn Ta the Hew. Yosr toxmorrow, 
1852. It is a continuation of Lady Alice, the 
Seared erg yt been 2 
@ Adiron ins. ine scenery AS nm a vi 
of the region is depicted with beauty, but the | 1815, of an old New hay Saree 
fiction is, like its , deficiontin the vigor- | tributed some of the settlers to the coun- 
ous delineation of r. try. Mach of his early life, ns we learn from a 


‘THE S0NO OF THE OLD TRA, 
‘December Sst, 1883, 
Of brethren we six thousand be, 
By bisdaw dive must wack expiee 
w dire mast 
0 make way for a brother; 
Old Father Time our common sire, 
Eternity oar mother, 


When we have spent the life she lent, 
Her breast we do not spurn ; 

The very womb from which we loom, 
‘To it we still return; 

Its boundless gloom becomes a tomb 
Our shadows to inurn, 


In the hourof my birth, there was joy and mirth ; 
And shouts of gladness filled my ear; 
But directly afver each burst of laugh 
The greane of the dgiog, te b 
—The ol ‘ing, the bitter eryin 
of who held them dear, hod 
The regular beat of dancing feet 
Ushered ny advent in; 
But on the air the voice of prayer 
Arose above the din; 
Its accents sweet did still entreat 
Pardon for human sin, 


As thus began my twelve-months’ span 
Throw the Safiaitelexteodedy 
So ever hath ran on my path, 
avis es se enn 
Bat chiefly measured by things most treasured, 
In death with burdens blended. 
‘The bell aye tolls for departing souls 
Of those whom I'bave slaiae 
ee 

minute 
Their boilies lef. of life ber 
Woald cumber hill and plain, 


Bat I have made, with my restless 

‘Their ihirty-nalllion graves: — 

"bE eae turning the soil, 
parting the wa’ 

Te find a bel for my countless 

In the secret ocenn-enves. 


z 
i 
F 
i 
i 


of age, he had seen the most i 
Hons of pp comntry, and A pers oe 
central Europe.” He afterwards studied divinity 
and became a of the denomina- 


tion. Heis chiefly known to the public, however, 
through his literary na Tie became 
connected with the press; was associated 

in the editorship of the New Yorker, the Brother 
Jonathan, and New World and other 
journals in Boston and Philad Tn 1842, 
was the editor of Graham's ine, which 


authors of the cou! who found liberal remu- 
neration, then a ity in American lit 
from the generous policy of the publisher. 





Pe Mr. ee eae The Bgsie 
fanthly Magazine, five volumes of which 
were by Messrs. Stringer and Town- 


1. B. THORPE 613 
Mcp em raphe et ae ‘Mr.’ bore an active: 

i 1836 he loft Connecticut for the of General Taylor to the e eee 
wath oe Je display Ls th ea popularandeditseck orivone at she’ Gopale Pea 
i nearly taste , . t 
are of “the Tai Dra i neaece Fite wer rely third tan 

Was exec! enteenth | brillian expression, ‘graphic 
Ce ae Raa cane As | Pe ur sme Ta 
ao aaa Ai the ban and’ Cte Bt Clik ep wih May and aon oor Mterary enter. 
grouping and sketching Ae SOSA GEAT CR prises prepared a new ¢ ection of his sketch 
of descriptive writing. ‘esoon became known | which rey paar by che Appleton, wants 
as the author of a series of western tales, t- | title, The Hine of the + a 3 mis~ 
the name of Tom Owen, the Bee-Hunter, cellany of of peouliar American 

of ons of his first stories, the snbject of | ter, scenery, and rural sports, is marked by the 
pn ae ena aa wt 2 whom the | simplicity and Mthcar ome 
author has given a wild ole etal mors are handled. style is and nataral, 
hunter” pe protects with he fell in | the sentiment fresh and unforced, a fine 
shortly after his removal to the south. sensibility. In “the Bee-Hunter,” there is a vein 





re 
IB, Menp2- 


CTS Bags BN was an editor of 
one of the leading pulldol em rs in New 
Orleans, devoted to the interests of Henry Clay. 
In this lear as Serpe iis fine litera- 
Ty tact, pol w) and untiring energy, 
he was compelled, for lack of pecuniary resou: 

to leave the field to others. Pon the sanphions 


and the Mexican People, were 
Immediately General Taylor took 
of Metamoras, he yp 1846, a 
voluine entitled Our Army on the Rio 
succeeded by Our Army at Monterey. 
two volumes, to have fur- 
most of the materials that have been 


wrought into the went 
the events which they ibe. 





shown in his 
the attention 
William Drummond Ste 
Scotch nobleman, who projected and accomplished 
the Roeky tains, On his arrival 


(eae are aa 


es 
the 
in this country and las Rep HIG, 
ir William himself pronouncing them most 
trathfal of all 


landed 
to the skics for every trivial superiorl 
od in their respective 


to ehronile the ex 
able—the custom 
antediluvians, 


n we 
compara. 


Tom Owen has hunted,” from 


ott's—how unsatis their records, 
seflesh Winton Owen the bee-huuter, is 
tively unknown? 


nd not & pea has inked paper to record bis 
These bor wolltery and slong” hes he Cneal his 


nqiiored ;—npon the ear 


‘thi 
with his spoils; quietly and satisfiedly, sweetening 


























: qa Bg | 23 a ie 3 : 
S 2s ‘3 fazk ise 1H Hu 

ee nel te fiss a Pe uae Hit a 
in angi i ] Ai a ae 
Had fe + ees: tit lai! ie Biase 


HE 
bes 





on 
iH 


i 


, etry (gest tstlagit © gad 
a Hey: au Ht in 


si i 4 ee : sisse abe s 
ne eatiee i Leer Beran 


Was born in Boston in 1815. He became a gra- 
duate of Harvard in 1883; studied at the Divinity 


the Rev. 
dent) James Walker, in the ministry of the Har- | 
Sordaneara iP 


He has been ono of the editors of the Christian 


reading, scholarship, literary readiness, vivacity, 
and good English admirabl, him ie 
the work of eeriod cal teratare® sia 

Mr. Ellis is the author of three yolumes of bio- 
graphy in Mr. Sparks’s American series; the lives 
of John Mason—the author of the ee the 
eg war—Anne Hutchinson, and William 

The 

His contributions to periodical literature are 
humerous, embracing many articles in the New 
York Review, the North American, aud the 
Christian Examiver. Io has frequently delivered 
occasional discourses and orationa, anil his pub- 
lished addresses of this kind woul tnke re 
yolume, Mr, Ellis js an active member of the 
Massachusetts Historical , of the practical 
working of which body he lat oe a pleasant 
account in a communication to the fellow New 
York society, of which he is a co ra 
member. In his religious views, Mr. Ellis 
th soja anthony of the ep and 
ul tural an ity , 
resist the assaults of the new school of rational- 
ists; while in edi h ch Se he has 
sometimes taken quite ground with the pro- 
gressive party. 





ORGAN MRLODIRET 
There is a sort of instinetive feeling within us that 
an organ should bo reserved for only sacred uses. 
‘The bray of the martial trumpet scerus akin to the 
din and clangor of a military movement. The Ciete 
is the riate ornament and instrument of the 


° Wi here at the history of the Examiner. It 
a tortie polite Fedo Zmonthiy publication com 
vreestor, under the ausploes 


re 
He 

i 
ae 
ie 
cle 
FsSbs= 
inet 


i 
: 


i 
i 
ti 
F 
ae 
Fat 


af 
EES 
28 
HE 
fr 
3 

F 

is 

: 
? 
if 





! 


u 





He bs pints ee ae 

“ to ‘Lord, earth,” quicken- 

coats. anthem, “Keep silence before 
oO into a 
wi 


F 


i 


fi 
re 
i 
fT 
: 


BEE 
i 
5 
BT 
Hy 
Re 
ee 
Aa 


pEEE 


: 
E 
i 
5 
z 


‘ 
2 
: 
z 
F 
z 


1 
a 
LE 
He 


f 
E 
: 
i 
i 


Fits 
Lu 
ist 
Hl 
Fel 

u 


rh 
ct 
if 

? 

H 

i 
ai 


i 


ha 
aFee 
FEE 

i 


melancholy and. faith 


i 
or) 


f 
ieee we contemplate our otis tal 


of the everliving God—the e 
Ly al everliving 


‘Thus, through the whole 
sensibilities of the heart, ia Sts 
its elation and its gloom, i 


= 
S 


: 
i 
: 
Fy 
i 
= 


of emotions and 
aod wails, in 


re to us, how dear must 


I 
Lee 


1 
2g 
LEE 
E 
Er 
fF 
fH 


H 
i 
E 

z 
A 

i 


i 
; 
7 
z 


af 
8 
. 
Ls 
28 


} 
i 
i 
i 


i 
i 


; 
! 
if 





; ‘Siena by Cosimo the’ 
ed with his official public and pri- taming Sith B mpnrendy ne gtr fos 


vate ete. On the of this work Nena he ban ean down, emaciat- 
Saal eet 


it is Mr, Greene’s intention to resume his History aud | story of 
of Italy. Tn 1864. he edited an edition of the Sin is ea pos tet c eountenanees, 
Works of Addison, in five volumes. Ans selina So i rein tet 
wr rr eS 

‘The same causes which concurred in him | is stretched out to succor and to console, But grief 

tengo, fot him to vow with p ial a = thin, when passed for the last ‘iare the 
A a " 

school in which had been pro: prea of Shots polars 5 ere they reach the 
found knowledge of Latin favored the cultivation of | by eof the Arbia, many a form sunk exhausted 
this partiality, and enabled him to study at rey and by the hip mana es 
sources of clusic eloquerce. Henee, when he iat he a EE which we give in 
up his pen for the composition of , it was | the original, for the force of the would 
Toby mod’ cas ws by teaag used | ase palates eri Als oe Gainer roe 
thle fotsteps have foreacd et mow datable ol _ 


turully,—we had almost said, necessarily, —became parts ie wt i No writer ever describe 
classic. His narrative is arranged and conducted | character by wetion than he; but, in the 
with consummate art, Sketehes, portraits, and full | ing of those separate traits which coustitute i 
descriptions ara disposed at proper intorvals, aceord- witlaal eharectar, and those slight and delieate shades 
i Deine tapbisene Pia ehieaeaar sbich direst Ibe fen Beira ry be 
e there be an important question vie 
pais ha peik ts the form of m debate, hod taka | tion. Ee-uaver, ide ns gi oh ea 
We heard Tt is thus that he brings you to the ay saaitebia. Wear ne Gonadosaea from 
grave deliberations of the Vevetian senate, 0} 1789,” are admirable; but the dey at of the 
you, as it were, in soine hidden recess, to | individual and of society, and their mutual aud re- 
‘ou the miduight counsels of a band of eouspirators, | ciprocal Tyr gt in view, 
Aoi often, oo powerful ls thecharra of his eloquence, and made to march on 7 
eeety fusna,¢ish allthe feelings that ensh na | Guha to from writer. 
ascene | we havea ; 50 5 
iscaloulated toawalen,. Deming cl ; 


‘His narrations, if with those of the: character, is, on the -, al f 
historians of anti city all be found te oie relief. Here his vaigmn' mires oc heer and 
of the highest qualities of which this kind of writing | the and the low. 
is ; clearness and animation, He never | alike 
wrote until he had completed his study of the event; | their at 
and then, by the assistance of a most exact and re- | “O ei,” he eries, 






dressing himself, after the 
tentive memory, he wrote it out just in the order in era sibs ereeeeneny 
which it arranged itself in his head. He wns thus n with the hope that 
‘uni fot botnets ere wnat 
conception, Ww" ¢, “infamativi pare 
Enno infamerad co’ detti,” And 
first, embraced the subject in its py Bete tli alten 
slow ght with which he dwel 
ed, and he was free to enter with the full force of his hich sometimes break 
inte the of sanshine upon the 

ing, nee , ; entering into all the 
qualities of an a setting off the event and its 
Taek asinees of narrators. }some well-chosen aneodote or apposite re= 

in them thi already said enough, 
Bs with wha , richness, Variety, and an almost 
indeed, he seems adaptation of coustruction and of 
Faaey eter ae ject, are its 

asack, terms A 
of n fortres—the con read him with attention, 
of natare herself,—he n Ua oes 
ete, ieee fase en nen 
a . 
eerie cousuminate master of all the séerets of art, he seer 


or | 














RICHARD HL. DANA, Jr 


suocessfully produced in the theatres of St. Lonis, 
i S Grocerat and ew York. 


afforded Eines porary to travel over Eng- 
land, Germany, ai joes On his return, he 
resumed his residence and the practice of the 
law at St. Louis. In 1850, he received the 
appointment of consul for the Port of Venice, 
under the administration of President Taylor. 
He visited England and ey travelled 
nr a eto 
ties is consul correspon 
meantime with senealoh ie New Roy vara 
In the fall of 1851, he visited Florence, 
Naples, and the other Italian citi 
Bene on he ae oh he proceeded to Si 
jeans. On iv! to St. 
Lonis, and took charge of a democratic newspaper 
at that place, 

Tn the Sieiag year, his last work was pnb- 
lished in New York, in two volumes, entitled 
Venice, The City of the Sea. It comprises the 
history of that capital from the invasion by 
Napoleon, in 1797, to its eapitulation to Radetzky, 
after its revolution, and the terrible siege of 1848 
and 49. A third vgluine, to be entitled North 
Staly sinee 1849, is, we understand, nearly ready 
for publication. 


RICHARD 1, DANA, Jn, 

Tar author of “ Two Years before the Mast,” was 
born at Cambridge in 1815. He is the son of 
Richard H, Dana the poet, In his boyhood, he 
had a strong passion for the sea, and had he con- 
sulted his inclination only, would have entered the 
Navy. Influenced by the advice of his father, 
he pads a student’s life at home, and entered 
Harvard. Here he was exposed to one of those 
difficulties which college faculties sometimes put 
in the way of the students by their ee 

ment. There wassome mixeonduct, and an 
was made to compel one of the cluss to witness 
against his companion, Dana, as one of the pro- 
minent rebels, was rusticated, As it was ona 
point of honor, it was no great misfortune to him, 
the less as he into the family, and under the 
tutorship of the Rev. Leonard Woods, at Ando- 
ver, now the president of Bowdoin—with whom 
he enjoyed the intimacy of a friend of rare men- 
tal powers and scholarship. On returning to 
Pere ion sijared hie weaiey aS mn 
age vacations, 6 it so material. 
ly, that he had to his hooks For a reme- 
iy, he thought of his love ofthe sea, and resolved 
to rongh it on a Pacific voyage asa sailor, though 
he had every facility for travel and ad- 

venture, 

On the 14th of August, 1884, he set sail accord- 
ingly in the brig Pilgrim from Boston, for a voy- 


* The Native Poots of Maine, 








pepcivel tip the sears ooprtlet ioe 
two hundred and fifty dollars, afact which shows 

of Aterican litera- 
ex- 


into several of the of 
Continent, including even the Italian, 
quoted, too, arity cepa for its authority on 


naval mat by Brongham and Carlisle in 
the House of 

The work, written out from his journal and 
notes of the vo; was ui with the 
idea of presenti plain reality of a sailor's 
life at sen. In its main object, it has been 
eminently suecessful, It has not only 


i 


the of gentle readers on shore, 
much rarer fortune, bas been accepted as 
picture by Juck himself. A copy of the 
no unusual portion of the scant 

chest in the forecastle, Its Ly 
Pines olga cheap 
libraries in wi it appears 
the list of the ike in demand, ‘The 
obyions, The author is a master of narrativ 
and the story is told with a thorough reality. 
is probably the most truthful account of a sailor's 


Ze 
ze 


a 
a 
cy 


sé iy : 





© Harpers’ Family Library, New York. 


B it He F = 3 
HE Ua ae aed ne hie Hu vt jee 
ALL e o wi te 3228 ei He wet ; ae siete ay ey 
: I ue z rit te i id tits HE ap 
ee eI 
teal a ati ile ee 
all : ne et2232 i788 et tt isi 222 ? E 
ie ADE ae al: ta ne 4 ivasc leis ut 

ce eRe I Hae HHANE Aad ae fea Be ie 


fist nuit 
eT reer eee B ee 





ijt ya Ture 
atte 


“RICHARD IL DANA, Jn 


ut ie e823 & Zroek i 
a Teil: abeaEe bar ae BaP ee ibs sil 
ale : aba eilende iii ea ad i 
| BEshiiiei i iiss aidasis: Fae. gees: viii Wire Stet : 
debechedg Hong be dais ttide2igyvigissss i ciste pte e fies 
Eig hi Hale re Hage eta Ga a 2i8 zi ipett 
ti Hee ry ata eee ru Hes baachl Shere 
aey ts HESErt 3 a nile sts pee Fi e:ssvale it egipigeg'y 
He iH jae cae ree ati tate 
bad, Roles tifa vides i iunieennnriliedl 


7 é i 
3 % Trt 3 
He ; 


s 
8 


ee 
Be 


eal Hi aie ee anne ie ly Z| 


ant 











be Hii i amas: a HUE eT | 
Eee pera He Hae aur hha: Hi en He ada 
gal af ae bd (i ey Hh fag tua | 
Ee a ue aa Paige 
ui i em 
Ester tee tcbeyateseeet st eepeerpEW Pe EP AE 

z sn aa ae iHEEHEHNEWTED “tala |S 


j 


i 
: 
l 


t 
i: 
i 
Af 


ee 
i 
= 
aE 
i 
iH 
i 
a 


lime, the cent an 
Bets An ae is = it 
fered to our 

girl, and boy ix not ieeneabplad i what 

ios ah ee 

t aud imagination wil 

Neduatiens of nie setae Their 

the food for imagination and fancy, and if 

Sponiyeneed’ee-oatyusioer'eed astion Oxy 
ly pee, a narratives ey 

will find it in F , Roussean, and 

‘Sand, ani tho teeble. a mane debased eee 

the modern preas of France. 


ANNA CORA MOWATT. 


was born in 
France, during her father’s residence in that city. 


Her earl; were passed in a fine old chateau 
och One of 


its apartments was fitted a 
the numerons children of the family, of which the 


selves with dramatic entertainments, for which 
several of them evinced decided talent. The 
family removed a few years after to New York. 
While yet a school girl, Anna, in her fifteenth 
rear, became the wife of Mr. Janes Mowatt, a 
wyer of New York. The story of her first 
pg omprapif eolit hy "ing = 
escort her to sel i 
horaatehel, and the courtship and ru 7 mate! 
which followed, are very pleasantly told 
ine lady's Gok phy. The a ane =e 
elopement being the unwillingness le 
to ‘ogi until the Tad pe pees seventeen i 
mers, they soon receiv patern: on, an 
retired to a country revidence at Flatbush, Long 
Island. Here the education of the * child-wife,” 
as she was prettily styled, was continued by the 
husband, several years the senior, Some plea- 
sant years were passed in Suniday-school teach- 
ing, fortune-telling at fancy fairs, “shooting. 
swallows on tho wing,” in sportsman tram) 
through the woods, private theatricals, and the 
composition of an epic poem, Pelayo, or the 
rn ti Cocadonga, in five cantos, which was 
published by the Harpers, and followed by a satire 
entitled Reviewers Reviewed, directed against the 
critics who had taken the liberty to cut up the 
poem, Both as the work of “ Teabel,” 
Mrs. Mowatt’s health failing, she secompanied 
a newly married sister and brother in a tour to 


Enroy She wrote a Guleara, the 
PINGA Stave, during her Bef had Ae 


iece with great pa ata 
, in honor of her father’s 4 
Meanwhile Mr. Mowatt had taken part in the 
speonlations of the day, anda commercial revulsion 
occurring, was “utterly ruined”—a weakness in 


CORA MOWATT. © 





pres rel rpm Nee benno 





ae) 


~-* 


Hina Cora Mor, 


‘The elder Vandenhoff had just before met with 
sroet acon TA. coma a and 
about for ways and means: 
is ical Be da 
nto account in this manner, She 


gained her 
husband’s consent with some difficulty, and, pre- 
ferring the verdict of a gave 
her at Boston, with decided sue- 


Gj 

followed by a 

and by thot mt comet of Fashion, which was 

written for the stage, Park 
March, 1845. 


and at 


She wns successful, in 
several years. 

In Ce eae reer Afters 
temporary it, his widow went th: a 
round of farewell and in 
July to her native land. In August she appeared 


SUSAN WARNER; ANNA B. WARNER. 


previously publi in 1846, an 
Tyetch inthe Nati Era, with which the 


DecBallen ae drat pleased, that 


hermes & portion to the 8 Pat, ad 

pene and months into quarters, be- 
it was fini 

she was 


hed.” Daring its composition 
supporting herself a3 a teacher in a pub- 
lie school, and in addition to the entire charge of 
Paenetseweetes math a 
forced by the esa of 
resources to give close 
affairs, Her health broke down under the pres- 
sure of these complicated labors 
Meanwhile her novel reached its termination, 
was published complete by Harper and Brothers. 
The author, to use her own words, “found her- 
self born, as it were, into a new life; found inde- 
pendence, sympathy, friendship, and honor, and 
an occupation 


deli 

this came very suddenly, as after a terri 
a sunburst.” Her child recovered, and 
Tne cane eat eal i rapidly followed by 
others. The Deserted 


iy 
exoellent passages 
life and seenery to which they are chiefly de- 


SUSAN WARNER—ANNA B. WARNER, 


‘Miss Warner made a sudden step into eminence 
asa writer, by the publication in 1849 of The 
a novel, in two volumes. It 

eae. vise in 


male and female, are hit off, and give 
Wtarnet ia alsa the enttior of Ths Lain end 


Hi 
3 
HH 
2288 
: 
Ly 
E # 


ie 
= 
5 


=: 
He 
: 
ERE: 
ii? 
ity 
i 
i 


FE 
fe 
a 
il 
F 
if 
iS 
aé 
G 

- 


Fa 
pe a 

igelae 
| feed] 
Fy fies 
Hin 
a a 
Ee E FE 


2 
: 
z 
2 
! 
H 
i 


r 
| 
A 
é 

| 
' 


gf 
i? 
i 
LF 
i 
EF 


i? 
iF 
i 
B3 
ar 
i 
get 
ie 


doing business in style 
what the whole pe 


i 
E 
ul 
Er 
i 
# 


hor three,—it wouldn't Begin to, 
self. She went on and 


i 

A 

a 

i 
ie 

E ef 


F 
i 


& 

e 

2 

E 

| 
is 

Pe, 

i 

FE. 
Hi 


5 
& 
z 
L 
i 
; 
Ey 
at 
é 


626 CYCLOPADIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 
11 thluk anything fe better eaten out inthe woods "I don't know—I think 7 talk to 








eda, 
good many. I gene about through thi 
Feapeli ecketi ach elorerge onto i8s5 arctoga™ 
See ey 2 el & ee 


e 

 Whatare You searching for, Miss Fledaf" said 
her friend, 

She was a busy quest here and there by 
the side of the little streum, 

“ L-was looking to see if I could find a mullein 
leaf,” said Fleda. 

“ A imullein leaf? what do you want it for!” 

“I want it—to make a cup of,” said 


“That is hickory,” «aid Fleda. “No; the mul 
Tein leaf is the best, because it holds the whter so 
nicely,—Here it is!—" 

And folding up one of the lnrgest leaves into a 
TD scsi li lense 

“For me was all that trouble?" said he “I 
don’t deserve it.” 

“You wanted something, sir,” said Fleda, “The 
water is very cold and nice.” 

He to the bright little stream, and filled 
his rural goblet several 

“T never knew what it was to have a fairy for 
my cup-bearer before,” said he “That was better 





gone. 

ee Bi gee 
said Fleda, “The water is as sharers 2 

“ How come to be a wood and water 
poet yee live out of doors Do the trees 
ae to youf I sometimes think they do to 


small prose volume, My 
JSrom Mei , and a number of ot! rns 
aco for various periodicals. Porhe 
tenderness of Mrs. Jndson's 


manner, jer cos of 
life as the wife of 2 missionary, modest 
title of her collection of poems is an inilication 


pen was an admiral 
children's property in her deceased husband's 
ee we Peay placed in 

hands of President Wayland, and incorporated 
by him in a life of their author, when a rival and 
unauthorized work from the same 


r tha bitte curiaina waving to and Bi, 
Fan the sick air; 








So silent, that I sometimes start 

Te the throbbings of iny heart, 
And watch, with shivering sense of pain, 
To sve thy pale lids lift again. 

‘The lizard with his mouse-like eyes, 
Poeps from the mortise in 


candles 
With fresher of air; 
The beetle’s drone 
‘Turns to a ike solitary FE 


ANNE OHARLOTTE BOTTA, 


Anse ©. Lyscu was born at Bennington, Ver- 
mont. Herfather, at the age ofsixteen, joined the 
United Irishmen of his native country, and was 
an active participant in the rebellion of 1798, 
was and a commission in the Eng- 
lish arm: 


the Britt invent hayes he 
to the 

‘was imprisoned for four 

He came to America, married, and dicd in Cuba 
during a journey undertaken for the benefit. of his 


health, a few years after the birth of his daugh- 
ter. 


aia neat tear we tense omer 
‘ies’ semi: to 
Provii where she adited, in 1841, the Rhode 
Island a tasteful selection from the writings 
of the authors of that state. She soon after came 
eee of New York, where she has since 


A. collection of She has been 
published in an nt volume, illustrated by Du- 
;, and other Ame- 


and tales to of the day, 
In 1835, 22is6 Lynch was marzied to Ms, Vie 


623 








cenzo Botta, formerly Professor of in 
the College of Bardlaie, and tiacthar et tee, 
tional Parliament, 


‘THOUONTS TN A LIBRARY. 
Speak low !—tread softly through these halls ; 
Here Genius lives enshrined ; 
Here reign, in silent majesty, 
‘The monarchs of the mii 
A mighty epirit host they come, 
= at re and er 
Above the buried wrecks of years, 
They breast the tide of Time. 
And in their presence chamber here 
They hold their regal state, 
And round them throng a noble train, 
‘The gifted and the great. 
Ob, child of Rarth! when round thy path 
6 storms of life arise, 
And when thy brothers pass thee by 
With stern unloving eyes; 
Here shall the poets chant for thee 
oa peopts welt to pride ly tage 
ni wi le thy « 
In prac pleasant ways, 
Come, with these God-anointed kings 


Be thou com here; 
And inthe mighty ulm of mind, 
Thou shalt go a peer! 


series of papers on the 
Fruits oestlone or BaD eee D 
= oy sia kolee lagazine, with which he is prominently conne 


‘Whose flashing eye and fevered brow 
‘Tell of the inward strife ; 


fever 
Gives his repose and youth. 





dari ete 
Jeading Nrecth and nglish political reformers. 


JOHN G. SAXE. 
Joux G. Saxm was born at Seni 
fi Nese 2, 1816. He yi ia 
at Middlebury College in 1839, 
law, wns admitted to the bar, and has since been 


engaged in the practice of the profession in his 
native State, 


A 
z 





In 1849 Mr. Saxe published a volume of Poems 
pr pea hawt originally delivered 
at a lege a 


= boots caren Mert number of 

orter pieces, many jonsly 

peared nthe Koicerbogier Maa <5 
ivered a 


Association. This ia included in the 
enlarged edition of in 1852. He has 
the public on 


—————— 


Gentleman in shorts, 

















and other 
Mr, § 


837, 


= 


i 


By 2 ‘ Pe 1, Feteg pipes 
ede, | in Wen! : i i 


mans 








CYCLOPAEDIA OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. 


HAH oy ante cen MULE 

deBHI igft gal. fal; Wittig igeate 

dale Hiei duce engl ee 

a Fi #33 ES F225 #3 agi? fini af qaneh 5 Fe E an 228 
ai? I 8 ik we i ay aoais ities) reueis ne asi 2 

Sag (OEE Tuna Riad Gay 

‘ oe gu Wie un ay ep ae eee 

. 2 é e LS 


u 
i 
i 
i 


i 


ae 
> Fa 
5 
i 
Hf 
BS 


iaepunibtiel two spake vod Uy postal 
a! two apologues, mar! 

See gue 
lom (inh a 

Full Downe Yestte. Thos 
exhibit the evils in the 


county, on the Hudson, It is an exceedingly plea- 
sant book in its tasteful, trathfal poor’ A 
natere and animal life, and the incidents of the 
country, interspersed with occasional criticism of 
favorite books, and invigorated throughout by the 
individnal hamors of the narrator, 


A BURIAL) ANON TER WOENTATEN—waeMt PEERS Paoke’& 
Several times has the ammmer come and 


the since it was 
‘to aiminister for sega vines to aaa) Pas 
the wilderness. I call it the wilderness only in con- 


tradistinetion to th and did. tis 
Pema ap gece my nga bar 





i 
F 
| 


rt 
z 
i 
: 


i 
i 
F 
it 
i 


f 
f 
: 
# 


A 
iH 
i 
#3 


a 
Pig 
i 
i a 
i 
i 


u 
I 


K 
i 


fe 
HA 
ill 


if his holy temple be among scenes i. 
if hare no pil bt the neared rocks no 


it is pleasant to 
It was in the month of Januai 















































| ageedeesteteee Pe sisulite ah 

i ! et ili ay) sun apt it 

| Eps Hdl ai E pote 

Ge , cuit ie had fil iA Hit ail Heli! it is 
if fa bia FF Bu nue ia se S88 aaa 

Ad ee SAGE bist He of i : con 
Pid | ut ; Hak i 2 ina Mad 


ES aut a ila 
jalan, ae a nee eligi i 
bt i ae te LHe 





a3 ue iL igual 





Cy 
ah eh Apia PUEHE 
ea 


JOHN 0. SARGENT; EPES SARGENT. 


es Be eres itical agitation attending 
the finanei: cin tj eet myn Mr. 


in the active 

pursuit of his profession, To this he devoted him- 

self, with rigid seclusion from politics for eight 
aie aioe how: ‘in into politics i 

eo was Ww ever, nm ics 1 

ich resulted in the election of Ge- 


he 
See Kentucky, pik woe ms it of 
hewspaper at hington. Its suc- 
cess was immediate and unprecedented. In about 
six months it numbered more than thirty thou- 
sand staunch Whigs on its (eatin list. Its 
course, however, was not acceptable to the mem- 
bers ofthe cabinet, A rupture was finally brought 
about in consequence of the attempt of Messrs, 
Bullitt and Sargent to separate General Taylor 
from the cabinet in the mattor of the Galphin 
claim, and their determination to support Mr. 
Clay's measures of compromise against the known. 
wishes of the administration, A withdrawal from 
the editorship of the was the result. After 
Mr. Fillmore’s ommlente the ews by the 
death of Taylor, a in the policy of the ad- 
ministration ensued, which enabled Mr. Sargent 
to return to the Republie, which he conducted 
with spirit and efficiency to the close of the pre- 
sidential term. Mr, it enjoyed the entire 
confidences of President and was ten- 
dered by him the mission to China. 

Since the advent of the Pieree cabinet Mr. Sar- 
rt an coat himself exelusively with pro- 
jonal py in the city of Washington, 2 

he is engaged ian exten cabal ractice, 
Mr. Sargent has published anonymous 





© Ants p. S11. 








633 
on, ical and subjects 
pion eae 
Arts of Naval Wa ahi Cae 
peed fan eananeniterion He is 
accompli salar i tho tora ang 


Some of his poetical translations from the 
enjoy a high reputation, 


Latin 
years with the exception of a 


ngs at the “Hermitage,” or wandering 
through the splendid Be pay bie While here 


also he was much noticed by Baron the 
celebrated banker and million who eifered to 
him into his 


The proposition, however, was declined, 

ing to school in Boston, young Sargent was one 
of half a dozen who started a small weekly 
pape aval the Literary Journal, In it he pub- 
lished some account of his Russian experiences, 
Di iiargent yeans Rea Ln asarab tel ee 
freshman class of Harvard University, but dil not 
remain at Cambridge. Some. afterwards he 
was called upon to deliver pleco Labia te 
Phi Beta Kappa Society of that institution. 





At an early Mr, 

rial life. Henrerecainn with the Bos- 
ton Daily Advertiser, but some 

in the management of that journal he 





With the dead and the dying the hillside is atrown, 

Spite siege tatongh cee es is, “ The day is our 
own!" 

“Not yet,” cries the young volunteer, “ do they fly! 

Benad Re thin vueet Be our country to diet 


ia spent, and ral: 
= bays our chief, Ey “ wih 
main!” 


But the young volunteer lingers yet on the field, 
Reluctast to fy, sd didalatag to ‘eld. 

Ashot! Ab! he falls! but his lifes Intest sigh 
Is, “ “Tis sweet, O, ‘tis sweet for our country to die!” 


And thus Warren fell! Happy death! noble fall! 
To perish for country at call! 

Should the flag of invasion profane evermore 
‘The blue of our seas or the n of our shore, 
May the hearts of our pi re-eeho that ery,— 
“Tis sweet, O, ‘tis sweet for our country to die!” 


Now our 


0 YR KEEN BREEIES. 
© ye keen breezes from the salt 
i loves to wander, 


waft reviving coolm 
your course hither! a 


scattered to the sunshine, 


‘in my boy 
te nates 
0 rude companions t 
‘Then to the meadows beautiful and fragrant, 
Where the coy Spring beholds her earliest verdare 
Brighten with smiles that rugged sea-side harlet, 
How would we hasten? 
‘There under elm-trees affluent in foliage, 
High o’er whose summit hovered the sea-engle, 
‘Through the hot, glaring noontide have we rested 
After our gambols, 

YVainly the sailor called from your slumber: 
ep eles otal the 
heir snow-white ganvass 

Stood the tall vessels, x 


And when, at length, exulting ye awakened, 

Rushed to the beach, and ploughed the liquid meres, 

How bave I chased through the shivered billows, 
In my frail shallop! 


For, in the surf 
Did we not spo 
Scream 


Lage old pla; hear my invocation ! 
In the close town I waste bai bs jen summer, 
Where piercing eries and sounds of wheels in motion 
Ceaselessly mingle 
When shall I feel your breath upon my forehead } 
When shall I hear you in the elm-trees’ branches? 
When shall we wrestle in the briny sunges, 
Friends of my boy! i] 


PHILIP PENDLETON COOKE—JOILN ESTEN COOKE. 


Porur Pexpreron Cooxe, the son of the late 
John R. Cooke, an eminent member of the Vir- 

‘ia bar, was born in Martinsburg, Berkeley Co., 

‘s., October 26, 1516. He entered Princeton 
College at the carly age of fifteen; and after com- 
leting his course, studied Jaw with his father at 
Winchester. He wrote a few sketches in prose 
and verse for the eae and the early num- 
bers of the Southern Literary Messenger. “Before 
he was of age, he was engaged in professional 





| reg Niele Re ae tery An ardent 
of field 


i 
F 
i 
u 
25. 


} 
fi 
i 


i 

i 
A 
. 
$ 


d 


iH 
Ee 
i 
i 
= 
; 
> 


i 
"i 
i 
ES? 





‘Thon wast lovelier than the roses 
In their prime; 
voice excelled the closes 
sweetest rhyme ; 
Thy heart was as a river 
ithout a main. 
Would T had loved thee never, 
Florence _ 


Thy 
To quicken love's pale ember, 
Vane, 


‘The lilies of the valley 


B wi 
Ti paes ove dally 
maidens sleep; 
May their bloom, in beauty vying, 
Where thine eartht part is lyi 
ere a 
Florence Vane! se 


TOUNG ROSALIE LER, 


T love to forget. ambition, 
And hope, in the mingled thought 
‘Of valley, and wood, and meadow, 
Where, whilome, my spirit caught 
Affection’s holiost breathings— 
Mpeg Henle feral, ope Orting 
oun, ie roved, aye dri 
From joys bright Castaly. 


T think of the valley and river, 
Of the old wood bright with blossoms ; 
Of the pure and chastened gladness 
Upapringing in our bosoms. 
1 think of the lonely turtle 
ofthe ha tine hroopt call ht, 
e ing moon! 
‘And the starlight pure and ‘aye 


Of the beat of a heart most tender, 
‘The sigh of a shell-tinct lip 

As soft a8 the land-tones wandering 
Far leagues over ocean deep ; 











of Glengary, near Winchester, whence, on 

burning of the house in 1839, the family removed 
to Richmond. Mr. Cooke's first if 
we cxoept = Pow bal del SOE ra 





mestic around him. This was 
ey the Youth of were 
m Serapes, at 
Vipin, AD. 1764, Ts osoast SER 
qualifies the serious of the first, which 
might lead the reader to look for a work of bio- 
graphy ; but in fuet, the book, with a 
mengre hint or two of tradition, ia ful view 
a period than ‘full 
fatitade of the writer 

8 prominent sul 

and chi 
these books made their. 


i 
i 


F 

“ip 
i 
ree 
al 
Mee 


# 
i 
Fe 
: 
= 

2 

a 


i 
fr 
/ 
: 


a 
a 
i 
a 
82 
it 
33 
i 


mS have little else to 


i 
ag 
i 
Bs 
ae 
] 
2 
fe 
ut 


ray romantic and the 

Sas and delicacy of its portraitares of the sex, 

the Virginia Compilians is a work of high merit 

cd vies The snocess of this work induced 

te ° Se Ram eoeestip, sell ue 
melt in literature wine To) 

Sherigtl nell arched tk retimaton oeton tate 

A subsequent publication from his pen,—still 

another, we believe, is announced,—is entitled Bi- 
or the Human Oomedy, 6 picture of life in the 
sense of the word, a representation of man- 
ners. It is a novel of tho sentimental school of 
the day, contrasting high and low life in the cil 
—the scene is laid at RichmonI—a young 
who gives naine to the book, furnishing the sun- 
beam to the soolal life in whieh she is cat. In 
this portrait of girlish life, the writer, as he tells 
“has tried to show how a pure spirit, even 
though it be in the bosom of a child, will 
ugh the variegated woof of that life which 
surrounds it, like a thread of pare Md, and that 
scuithiog 0 slavatncatl port etsy a0 suai 
something tw and make 
them betier” MnAvebaieolée UT ffs tone 
which the author has been most snecessful. 

The noe Feet) oes of Mr. 
Cooke's style is its gay, happy facility—the proof 
of Vue we re thle carries the bey in 
these ea: over any defects of art, 
and thes for the faathor an ae entrance to 
the = saber of the novelist, youth and wo- 


PROLOGUE TO THE VERGINTA COMEDTAXS. 
the mena re men are full of old serene 
D speak—our skalds. 
Ties still wounded gri 18 the fr and val 





run |. 








' 
| 


Gils 
il 
He 
ifr 
te 
if 
He 


z 


jz 
A 
Ege 
weg 
E 
: 


il 


assistance, more than one 
ging on my walls might aiford it. Oli 
portraits whi Wee gaze on with a pensive 


from th or Kote ‘eflog a iatay a Fl 

he ioghan a 
fromm the wcbique fesse aud tioontie TORR padieet 
summer—she was but seventeen when it was taken 
—under the winter of her snow-like der, and 
bright diamoad pendants, glittering like ivicles! 
‘The canvas is and even cracked in places, 
but the little place laughs m still—the eyes 
upon another ng 

is a picture of Mr. William 


and enormous ruffles; and his coat is 
Ny see pale Fol he is a 

In an some porn- 
cee simple-looking, excellent, honest 





i Hd un i 
i 3 Hie ts. ray eee i 


= Pa4233 2 25254 
a a AS a (au 


we 


at 


ee 


2 1GuHe CEREADBeP ee 








HORACE BINNEY WALLACE. 


ata 
rs 


ef 
i 
: 


Hi 


ff 
; 


scientifie , and eral 
Fie eactgets eotionsd thotemmrenaer 


he produced an anon: novel, Stan- 

, Which, Suen imasiy Saulin 08 cobseEruehions tos 

of admirably expressed thonght. 

Mr. W ; published a namber of articles 
anonymously in 
interested 


various 


becamy ing, as 

was afterwards discovered, te the incipient rage 

undue 

he 

Liverpool. Findi i tin a = 

iverp ing no improvement con- 

dition on his arrival, he at once led to 

Paris in quest of medical advice, His corebral 

disease increased, and led to his death by suicide 
at Paris, on the sixteenth of December followi 

- ee avolume was ge ied Hog J} 
entitled, Art, i in 1 
Being Fragments rom the Portflins ate 
Horace Binney Wallace, Exquire, of Phi hia, 
It contains a series of essays on principles of 
art, detailed criticisms on the pee Earopean 
cathedrals, a few travelli hes, Lele 
Michael Angelo, Leonardo da Vinci, Fra lo- 
ans; Pecsro; and Raphael, and an article on 

te. 

These writings, though not designed for publi- 
soon nant soe ne wha 
state, disp! of 
of language, eee ed the history as well as 
sesthetio principles of art, and a cultivated 
taste. Socesional 


imagery, growing if out of enthusiastic 


best in the series of which it forms a portion. 
‘THR EXTERtOM OF OT, PETERS 

‘What « world within Life's open world is the in- 
terior of St. Peter’s!—a world of softness, bed 
omy sod cline ee eee ed 
Teikaplandas rove teen ninariieced eect 


ia: 
: 





Jess than the natural universe from which we pass,— 
ical of that of 
Bich, betore the f 


i 
i 
finite 


f 
b 


is 
i 
i 
fH 
uly 


i 


# 


Fear or Be Petronllin tee aacteration ol tea 
i 

Saviour,—not of perishable canvass and 
wrought in mosaic, and fit to endure till Time itself 


shall perish. 


i 
id 
HI 
ls 


Vs 
i 


es 
let 


H 


é 
rT 
i 
‘i 

Hy 
et 


ij 
st 
ribee 


REET 
ia 
E 
i 
F 
& 
3 


il 
ev 
BF 


i 
& 


i 


& 
7 
i 
[ 


a 
b 
i 
i 
+f 
i 
iT 


H 
i 
: 
E 
i 
7 


i 


i 
By 


E 
if 
ee 





gt : 
ee i i lit, it rf al ae 
tae Tae HHH lala 
FE Ey ti 
ial Eee At A Ea 
jee a eH ee (ac 
ji GHEE Pe eu d J855 uae eat 
SeReTHLNRLT THE GLUT 
jie ane Bat eh maison 
pau late Jel refi aun 
) i ten inte FAR An EE 
E fade aay Hl Ae eH TL: 
PLS Uren ne Hae | GAEL 
r alll T a F Has Pu ee ial 
fC ' ue TER EEE! esa i 
fe edie 





could nothing add, 


and gold, 
wave had rolled. 


gems 
the Tiber 


with 


casket, 
ange value e 
perhaps 


To the 
oO" 


ie 


Bag5s 


nie 


we 


dl 
HH 





gem 


te, published in 


Dan 
of o 


4 translation of The First Ten 


uC TEMI 
a 


fer 
aed 


aul 


ih 


ats! 


on the 
ee 


* The Liber Amoris can 
vou. m—tI 








Paints lentes 
As if they Pa they they tell. 
Are sw: 


The bells—the merry Christmas bells, 

‘They're Hioging ithe morn! 
Ting whe) in the eastern sky 
in light is born ; 
They a8 sunshine tips the 
whey, frou ce sb, te sovereign 
ty we sky, tl ign sun 

Rolls his fall orb of fire. 

The Christmas bella—the Christmas bells, 
How merrily they ring! 

To hearts « pulse of joy, 
A kindlier life they 

‘The poor man on his couch of straw, 
‘The rich, on downy bed, 

Hail the glad sounds, as voices aweet 
Of angels overhead. 

The bella—the sil Christmas bells, 
Over many a mile they sound! 

And household tones are answering them 
In thousand homes around. 

Voices of childhood, blithe and shrill, 
With youth's strong accents blend, , 

And manhood’s deep and enrnest tones 
With woman's praise aseend. 

The bells—the solemn Christmas bells, 
‘They're calling us to prayer; 

And hark, the voice of worshippers 
Floats on the morning air. 

Anthems of noblest praise there'll be. 


JOHN LOTHROP MOTLEY, 
A wenger of a Boston family, and graduate of 
Harvard of 1831, is the author of to novels of 
merit, Morton's Hope, or The Memoire of a Pro- 
vineial,and Merry Mount, a Romance of the Mas- 
cg eg 
The first of t fictions appeareil in 1839, 


of his country, now in the struggle 

the Bera in an aimless resi- 
dence. He returns home, becomes an. in 
the Continental army, himself, and 
t 


Pin tery Bosh the othor lag ava i 
self of the picturesque. epiaode of Now England 





Gottingen is rather a well-built and handsome 


Univer 
‘sity towns, has extert : exception 
of s plain-looking building a the library, 
and one or two for col! to re- 


to remind yon of the days when the 


inhabitants were huddled sugl: + like: 
aa ae ‘he woiteh 
rains of 


4 | se av'c 
nently rise ly to or nine stories, the 
Se" Ena, iet ah wre pe 
pin the two lower tnt rata tar ab 
¢ two lower stories or a e 
Ben protons wale: Sect tapon €ip callonr ws Veeeaien 
a 


conveniently the student, MAL UO 
the oa and perhaps a poct the 
top; 8 pyramid with a poet for its apex, and a pro 


rica, where the are wooden boxes, worn out 
and renewed every fifty years; where the cities 
seem ouly tem) encampmonuts, and where, till 
people learn to for the future as well as the 
Jpop er chars ears in pen and 
ink, of the centuries in the country, 

Ast the street, I saw on the lower story 
of & som! re-looki house, the whole legend of Sam 
son and Delilah rudely carved in the brown free 




















ni 
eas z 
i iris paatibecey Bit yp 
L te : nes Tue HPP Beene 
seat eae idee Pent 
iin ut aT TL ae Hs 
6 <#zacegsce ee & Sobaes 2223-2225 i ainek SseEteteea! 
Caer Maer ant ca eue REIL 
HCV Gt cM ete Hureo ate 
Lit ae ea CAA 
illus PML aa 


The keen eyes of Joc, who had been up 
and down the river, however, discovered i 
renee Sprpeite de Sine. Bees aaron ees 


Sy aa g le, and when the sun bad 
fairly risen, we foun there it surely was, and 
i edge, ibse~ 


mad torrent, lashing the banks in its fury, and 
foumning over the and trees that obstructed its 


Cet a ger ea paloma other, and 
in sorrow, 

Yot there was the pole waving to and fro, at 
times when the fish would repeat his efforts to 


wever, quite satisfied me; I was thrown back 
upon the ire, cold and dispirited. 

During the entire day there stood, or swang to 
Hertycongeel, now beeing dows‘ ant Easing tho 

now own au: 6 
waters at its feet. = = 

The 1 bore until flesh and blood could no 
more e ihc ears ryepa to rest, the twi- 
light was away, and the stars were beginnin; 
ta peep ot from tl sheltering plans ing Pees 
na if to know why the ‘ht came not on, when I, 
stung to the soul, ined at any hazard to dare 
the venture. 

Wringing the hand of Joe, who shook his head 
dubiously, up the stream I bent my course until [ 
reached @ point some distance above, from which 
the current ing dashed with violence against 

i shot directly over to the bape es 
where waved and wegaed my wretehed rod, eribbet 
by the waters, and cabined and coufiued among the 


plunged in, and swift as an arrow from the bow, 
the water hurried me on, a companion to its mad 


from Joe called my attention to the pole; alas, the 
fish was gone, and the line wus streaming out in the 


wind, 
That night was I avenged; a huge cat was borne 
home in triumph, How I took it, or where, it mat- 
ters not ; for so much time having been occupied in 
aerating: ROW 2 rok ome ogee me cmowe to tall 





| 


reference to the of ‘ing bim 
Se bis ee eer is, that 
parboiling sixteen days was recom- 
mended as an initial ' 
Sixteen Tam convinced would 


on the Sound, on the ers 0: and 
was, until recently, taste had altered 
name, Suw-pitts, from the branch 


> 
a 


i 
i 
4 
ie 
i 

z 
viii 


: 
i 
i 


humorous In the 
in 1888, a collection of tales and gave 
further evidence of his capacity for and 
humor in description, It was followed the next 


In 1840 his sketch of New York eity election- 
a . 


es oe ee hire an in 
Career of Puffer in & novel 
which, cmbeioe of aivis 


bynelais Fira thei, 


At this time, from December, 1840, to May, 


. Mathews in the editor- 
i ier 2 Journal of Bask ond. Opt: 
a month; 


character well sustai Th successful 
* Mturdoc deo pertewed ini 


Piensa iS cata 
irst eu in sal 
with suocess in New York’ and else- 


wi 
Witte Son seresentolion. was tan hoe of Ga 
“on representation, was the 

heroine. An actress could scarcely be found 

who would sacrifice the personal ition of 

the hour to the interest of the powerful and trath- 

ful i in the mother, grey with 
testimony to 


Satertuet te peytimmete neat aaa 
jon and cha- 
racter, we may quote the remarks by the late 


rature raft isa work of strong 
aud lineaments; a fine originality is 
shown the conception, by which the love 


ofa 
son for a mother is made a sufficient motie (asthe 







mm 


fH 
A 
i 


HH 
= 

- 

fi 


Hn 
is 
i 

: 


bE 


duit 


Tee 


CORNELIUS MATHEWS. 


and treated them in a of his ) Dever 
without and Mae 8 hy 


‘was published in 1846, An edition of 
has been published by Redfield. 

Tie JOURNALINT. 
As shakes the canvass of o thousand ships, 
Strack by a heavy land breeze, far at sea— 
Ruffle the \d broad-sheeta of the land, 
Filled with the people's breath of potency. 


rape pire anes by 

<hepere: who strikes, who rules, who speaks, 
wi 2 

Mam Tellin thatktvus Aigvati read maid 
Msoy-to live, torin tbobentt of things 

A dark-dyod spirit he who coins the time, 
‘To vietur's wrong, in bave disloyal liee-— 

Who makes the morning’s breath, the evening’s 


tide, 
‘The utterer of his blighting forgeries, 


gold-bright 
whose perpetual hand, each day, 
to new life the euspire's heart 

Pp tote ligias of tom, er dash, on aad, 
To fix yj the nie ie view, 

Is to thy ready hand's strength 
‘There is an in-wrought life in every hour, 
Fit to be chronicled at large and told— 
"Tis thine to pluck to light its secret power, 

And on the air its many-colored heart unfold. 
‘The angel that in san minutes li 
Sicneala on ad the aybeme 
Who stuns, with dusk-red words of hate, his ear, 
‘That mighty power to boundless wrath enrages, 
Hell not the quiet of a Chosen Land, ‘ 
res ey et ore eae vias Te 
The spirit pent that breathes the life into its limbs, 
Doeile for love is tyrannous in rending. 
Obey, Rhinoceros! an infant's hand, 

Leviathan! obey the fisher mild and young, 
Vexed Ocean! smile, for on thy broad-beat sand 
‘The little curlew pipes his ly song. 

THR POOR MAN. 

Free paths and open tracts about us lie, 

'Gainst Fortune's spite, though deadliest to undo: 
On him who droops beneath the saddest sky, 
Hopes of a better time must flicker through. 
No yoke that evil hours would on him lay, 
The sume fds through wich het pods hia 

le wi way 

‘Are bat his better Pechune’s open book: - 
‘Though the dark amithy’s staina becloud his brow, 
His limbs the dank and sallow dungeon claim ; 
‘The forge’s light may take the halo’s glow, 
An angel knock the fetters from his frame, 
In deepest needs he sever should 

‘The patient Triumph that beside him walks 
Waiting the hour, to earnest labor set, 

When, face to face, his merrier Fortune talka 
Plant in thy breast  measuréless content, 

Thou poor inan, cramped with want or racked 

with pain, 
Good Providence, on no harsh bent, 

os Devught ties there; to lead thee beak agais. 





No other bondago is : _ 
Pe er er ea 


hand; 
see Bae 


; 
i 


i 
zd 
E 
H 
ig 


fi 
i 
2 
: 
be 
fag 


a5 BA] 
Hilt 
ag 
Hy a 
Halts 
Had 
Hip Gee 


At those tables look for no conversation, or for 
conversation of the driest and dullest sort Small 
i , however, 


Bink odrwsa “Vey food ‘to 


a delicacy ing, @ and 
aoutencas was ithe thoss who 
dive pri ly on meat.” Green " and 
#pinach are evrolled in a new are 
no culinary and botanical. take rank 
See eee ee 
We & rare n 4 
serve a delicacy of feeling," ae. anaes so 


i 
ul 

2 

Es 


il 
i 
HE 
Hi 

i 


i 
3. 
£ 
g 
ze 
ef 
: 


i 
1 
ak 
i 
A 
Hi 


= 

i 
ee 
if 
i 
i 
a 


i 
i 
£ 
§ 
i 
i 





ie aa eden 


4 
ipeatiant ee 


HEEL Teri EeH EF 





Le 
|e iit HIRE ali ie rte Puy 
5 


: ait HY iy ep ie 
ih pale 1 hang te sty | Hague 
Gage tbs aT H : rie ay ad 
THAME no Hee eee ty a | 
side uta is peu eau UE 
a) ae PEE Aei eer a ea te Hi 
“ae eteion EE sPaorepe et ete : tt 

aliul 2 Hecate ue eg ate niin 


acknowl @ generous emulation, it it 
Shettencin’ ofthe: Teostece: te place” a: babies 


‘There is a single other circumstance connected 
with the career of the deceased superintendent 
searcely worth mentioning. It is too ab- 
surd aud frivolous to refor to at enturiete 
in light esteem by ev 
oe Mintotieura uae 
to disclose it tenderly, 


uliar as Little 


a 
before this, have 


lersen would have taken him for o 
god-soud in Stockholm: Thackeray must have do- 
veloped him, we can readily su with some 
Little change in one of his jimut sketches or 
stories, 

Then what a time we should have had of it! 
Such enjoyment, such laugh- 
ter, over the eccentricities of littl 

to the library to get « glimpse of him ; 

ng by painters of his ; such 
tehers; st 

! But it was his great and astounding mis- 

fortune to belong to this miserable, wo-begone, and 


brary, 
3 if will 
Probe aed te moon 


teenie 
lived at or near the spot where he built his cabin. 


2 

z 

: 
i ! 
i 
eg 


\ 
Fb 
E 
7 


it 
HH 


usetts S School Mr. Peek 
entered Brown University in 1633. 
ing his d in 1887 he went to Cincinnati 
thenee to i 


steamboat, 

He left the West the next and returned 
to Bristol, Rhode Island, whither his mother had 
removed, and entered the office of Governor Bul- 
lock as a law student, The followi: 


he 
continued his studies at Boston with Mr. R. IL 
bar in 


i 
2 
i 
Kg 
: 
i 
i 


bg2724 
HE 
: ant 
a a 
& au 
: apes 

gE 
Wa 

Hi; 


é 
& 
& 
i 
E 
‘ 
z 
9 
2 
tee 


for some time after his novelties in prose 
and verse were a series of Sonnets of the Side- 
In the spring of 1845, through the aid of the 
Hon. 8. A. Eliot, and a few other known patrons 
of mi Mr. Peck started and conducted The 
fusical Review, four numbers of which 

were published. In the winter of the same year 
orchestra 

jing to write 

une, 1946, 

of Cornish miners to the 














a a uae H a fla 
a Hai raat HH 
































THI HLM) inten 
| He ie iu Hi u Al i hy a Hi i 
| in (ie He Pe. li ip2452 
Ua, Halil ey He i 
i He ata in He ee 
PHUNpo dh Utne a] inlay 
bs laa ie Wl ah Hina : 1H ee 


r 


J, ROSS BROWNE 651 


had been him by some captains, to get loaded | fell that. 
tet tese rer ehete t Le forth in a1 
After fi pte ty se im, we walked over | Sul apent some time in 





fifty hile ‘ing seriously of taki 
Se the surface of this at about | in washing at six dollars a dozen, or devoting the 
e 


i the rpove of making post-masters Looly made 

in the central part, supposing the rock to peta et raar, San Jose. abana 

the average level of the height when it is exposed. | Oonvention called by General Riley met at Monte- 

twenty acres or more have been cut Pe rey, and I was to the debates on 

from the side of the hill towards the north or lee thi of mn this I 
the island, next the shipping, tg heard apy te mh le 
was 


Tn 846 Br Hig pe pa bet ae ree ofa 

Whaling with Notes of a Soj on the 

COAL Sibnitd | Cia ee Peet 
a brief History of the Whale Fishery, its and 

7 Present Condition. \t contains a spirited and 

and concisely narrated in his last pale faithful description of an interesting of the 
volume, Yusef, that the story cannot be better | guthor’s experience as a whaler, whieh does not 
presented than in his own words :— to have favorably improssed hit with the 
Ten years ngo, after having rambled all over the neaey conduct of tha service. Ho writes 


Thited States—aixteen hundred miles of the dis- | warmly in condemnation of the harsh treatment 
tance on foot, and sixteen hundred in o flut-boat— | to wl sailors are in his judgment exposed. 
Leet out from Washington with fifteen dollars, to | ‘The work js valuable as an accurate presentation 
make a tour of the East. Tgot as far east as New | of an important branch of our commercial marine, 


York, when the last dollar aud the prospect of 
puaching Tecate daikon thaniote ak the one graphic and humorous volune of per- 


te time, Ys begi than ett home, pe . 

je 80 # beginning, I shi before the mast, lished Y% Seay dl s 
some ‘uses, lourney of the Frangi; A 

io the Tadic Oceans in the sway of serutbing decks | Crusade inthe ast. Tt is a narrative of the 


way rear 
and catehing whales, A tautiny occurred at theisl- | asual cireuit of European travellers in the East, 
and of Zaneibar, where T wold myself out of the | the dragoman of the expedition A 


anil spent three moaths ve Vb the con- | with those of the ‘5 fellow tra- 
sular residence, in the vicinity of his Highness the | vellers, are happily hit off. The of 
Hoan asd fo: ahs aoe Bone wate i . 

0 w four years on 6 sketolies autho: 
‘Treasury reports, by ayhieh time, in order to take a) ee 
the new admijistration by the fore-lock, I deter- JOUN TABOR'S RIDE—A YARN FROM THE ETCHINGS OF A 
mined to start for the East again. ‘The only chance WHALING Cate 
Thad of getting there waa, to accept of an appoint “T was cruising some ye ” he began, “on 
siontia isd Neatanant in iheteavenvoserrioe cid go the southern coast of e vessel in which 


report for duty. On the to Rio, difficulty | many of the crew were on the sick-list. I bad 
occurred 


i 
[ 
j 
i 
Fs 
fF 


t 
i 
i 
= 6 
z 
u 
i 
u 


aj 
iH 
Es 
g 
A 
i: 
2F 
i: 
: 
ie 
: 
fz 
Hi 
i 
: 
H 
BE 


3 
i 
: 
i 
i 
if 
ite 
23 
fe 
i 


i 
F 
et 
fz 
i 
i 
: 
F 
3 
L 
EF 
a 
é 
Fe 











2 re 
ul ie a ae Me i 
dota fifi blah f Hanh out 
: # fe aul ql sg 
: 18 a Ae ee ge Ha i tee i ea 
ii Ha qin: gu 3484: 
i. Hi Bree aP is ie ¥ pale Had ii pau Heenan rahi 
iPM NINE, 8 1 ty 1 
Ane i ab Tee ea 
nee eee sHUD iia) Gad agai iets dq 
ihe ce ae al ape oa 
deste Teter steel pee ePSven Tipe gestae TT da 
j Hee fidget Haghaeaayg les ul Hina i i 
a Haden Hee an aidan paige roca atta 





“*« Land ho!" roared the old man. ghany River. Down the river we dashed 
“Tn the devil's name, said I,‘ what d'yecall that?’ | steam-boats, flat-bonte, aud all manner of small 
“* Nantucket," my comrade, till we entered the Ohio, Right shead went wo, 
“We passed it in the winking of an eye, and every thing in our and astonishing 
Pade we went up Buzzard’s Bay, The coast was nave wp neversa any hig i eh asap 
Tin ie oe whaling ig us with ae Ui eeen tees ee he aie 
glasses; for certainly so strange a was never Scsasadens through swamp 
seen Bedocont eanebrake, and at last found ourselves in the Gulf 
“* There she breaches!’ sf -Mesioo, golag like wiitce. Usswneh, Aas Se 
“There she blows!’ cried others ; but it was all | whalers, pa, regen A 
one to them. We were out of sight in a jiffy. the boast of America hove in sight. Over the 
“The const of M Andes went we—into the Pacifie—past the Sand- 
On, on we flew. Taborstown, the poe a Pa the 
before ua and we | Straits of Malacea—through Seychelles 
Blowing aad pushing, and tag up theemnd wai | fucked wpin Algne Bey, We ven sahore witha 
wi en yy in eran 
his flukes “s 2 headway that I as pitched headlforemodt into the 
“« My eyes!’ said T, scarcely able to see a dart | sand, aud there I fastened as firm as the stump of » 
Se eeekce Fitna ee tree, You may be sure, out of breath as 1 was, I 
pump 800n toamother. This feeling of suffocation 
“<Go it! Never say die! Hold fast, John Ta- | beeame so intolerable, that 1 with the 
bor!’ shouted the old ; and helter-skelter we | desperation of a man determined not to give up the 
on ae ng esas, Sees ghost, pt ee an eae 
men, and horses, tanner ve at on found myself sitting upright 
on each side. ‘The old Cape Horn calanda fa the old hospital —" 
and plum-pudding captains rushed to their doors at Here Tabor paused. 
a sight so rare, “Then it was all m dream f" said 1, somewhat dis- 
“* There she breaches! There sho breaches !'re- | appointed. He shook hia head, and was mysteri- 


sounded through the town fore and aft; and with Caay aeent iba tame 
the raling nati even in old they came 
hobbling us, armed with lances, ons, and HENRY DAVID THOREAU. 


a variety of old rusty whale-gear, the hindmost | Two of the most noticeable books in American 
ou! 


t, 
este ou strike that whale, Captain Tabor!’ Thoreau’ 
und the firénost shouting to thoes behind, * thie is plage rif eon 
my chance, Captain Tabor!" while the old man with Jad Life to the Woods, The author is 
the long beard, just ahead of me, kept roaring, ed iz 

“Stick fast, John Tabor! hang on like grim | in the 
Death, John Tabor!’ 

“And I did hang on. As I had predicted, we | bor! 
be ainat the town ; and so great ety. 

the , that the old fellow flew hend-fore- | his books as the interpreter of his career, a medi- 

mast ont = saving in my firm grasp the entire | tative philosophic life. 
seat is duc! 


ture lances and to bear him, i 

manner that didu't Gekle his faney much, | 4, We find his name on Se Hered ie ot ee 
“ The whale at pap aD apse yo it ; Di ving 

onward we went, wil it twenty irons + dh to the and 

ateach side. I grasped the old man by the collar | in school- and trade in an experimental 

si ide josket Fila Hi,” A shoe of Semghor S| 7, BAER ee 
wed us, 

ofa Pe ae res ike pe ge sie Son eens 
“©The devil's in the whale, Captain Tabor!" cried | pression on religious jects; but in many other 

ber ‘ conga renetaliese tebay cleueernae 
“+ As long as D've been ain Tabor, said & | gnd acute literary and moral perceptions. It is 

chird, * I never saw such a divided into seven chapters, of the days of the 

observed a fourth. “ 
ay August, 1839, descending the Concord river, from 

ia ecg gaan mie! Pmt my | helo ti meme Merion 
we to its source: 

YH eet aa mea ibe ing point. This ‘s 
“That's Jobn Tabor!" the seventh. iodo! the author in company with his 
“« John Tabor, John Tabor, hold fast !' roared the », in & boat of their own construction, 

old man, and away we went as if of the | Which is variously rowed, pulled, or 
devil, sure enough. Over hills and andthrough | propelled by the wind along the flats or 

fae a viol Se ee re the canal y felbcalettagre tee rye stn 
insight, We them in no time, and came | tent which they earry with them, record is 
dowa with a glorious breach right into the Alle | of tho small boating adventures, and largely of the 


c 





_ a i int 


= 
a id 











my 


#5 0836, mostly shanty bosrits, 


i oa 
J ce “78 
3 fey e 
, fe ge 
| fetdat t 





HENRY DAVID THOREAU. 


aking? web, tuo only contig of ol 
ow e ly a 
could not have been or have come 

very often, than to read, think, and observe. Ho- 
mer ay to have been his favorite book. The 
thinking was unlimited, and the observation that 
of a man with an instinctive tact for the wonders 
of natural hi . He sees and deseribes 


story, insects, 
birds, such “small deer” as hed him im, with 
a felicity which would ister ined him. ry oa 
of Izaak Walton and Al Wilson, A 
phical and hy ical of Wi 
id, is a5 faithful, exact, and In) , asif ithad 
ae & government or admiralty commis- 
ion. 
As in the author's previons work, the imme- 
diate incident is frequently only the introduction 
to hi et a a seals axons Eire 
nally vi a hazy atmosphere of trans- 
cendental speculation, through which the essayist 
sometimes stumbles into al depths of the 
bathetic. We have more pleasure, however, in 
pa yy wi ee Bulbs of be Sosa 
contemplative Jacques of the forest, is fresh, 
nice observation of books and men, which has 
occasionally something of a ic vein. He who 
would ire a new sensation of the world about 
him, rca do well to retire from cities to tho 
banks of Walden pond; and he who would open 


his eyes to the rate alc of contr in its 
tions of fiells and tmen, may r with 
profit along the author's journey on the Merri- 


mack, where natural history, antiquities, re- 
Freya and tradition, are exhausted ia vitalitiog 
soene, 


A CHAMACTER—PROM WALDRY, 
Who should come to my lodge this m but a 
true Homeric or Paphlagonian artaat ing fo 
je and poetic a name that I am sorry I cannot 
print it here—a Canadian, a wood-chopper and post 
maker, who can hole fifty posts in a day, who made 
his last supper on a woodehuck which his dog caught, 
He, too, heard of Homer, aud, “if it were not 
os Ce onl * Ce ah ae do Se 
jays,” though po: e not ‘one whol, 
through for uy ‘seazons, Some priest wt 
could pronounce the Greek itself, taught him toread 
his verse in the Testament in his native parish far 
Care and now I must translate to him, while he 
holds the beok, Achilles’ reproof to Patroclus, for 
his sad countenance." Why are you in tears, Pa- 
troclus, like a young girli” 


Or have you alone beard some news from Phthia? 
The) that Mevantias Ii of Actor, 
set eevee Apia 


Eihe ar vine Latta Hel eae eee ie 


He ea) ice! pot He has a great bundle of 
white-oak bark his arm fora sick man, gather- 
ed this Sunday morning. “1 there's no 
harm in going after a thing ." says he. 
To him Homer was a reat writer, though what his 

i about he did not know, 


oF 
: 
z 


| its, 





655 
‘the world, seemed to | any existence: 
for him iiSeor dou em gh yur dad 


ae 
Farce 
bell 
oe 


oa 
dinner in the bushes, 


E 


3 
= 
#12 
ifEF 


ing, 
day were not 


should want by henting 


A BATTLE OF ANTS —TROW WALDEN, 
One day when I went out to my wood: 
ther my pile of stumps, 1 observed two PSS 
the one the other much larger, nearly half an 
J A oe 
ing once never 
ores ink naliel on the claps 
. Looking farther, | was surprised to find 


le, or ra 


T have ever 
witnessed, the only batéle-ficld I ever trod while the 
battle was raging; internecine war; the red repub- 
licans on the one hand, and the black imperialists on 


watched a couple that were 
other's embraces, in a little’suany v: 
chips, now at noon-day to 
sun went down, or life went ont. The smaller red 
champion had fastened himself like a vice to his ud- 
versary’s front, and through all the tumblin; 

that field never for an instant ceased to gnaw at one 
tho other to go bytes beard: while Ine ercugee 

ie to ; while 

blssds ont Gabel hn trom #dk'so side, se ort or 
on looking nearer, had already divested him of seve~ 
ral of hismembera. They with more 

nacity than bull-dogs, Neither manifested the least 
disposition to retreat. It waa evident that their 


Face 7A Lace die. Inthe mean while 
pret ae Bele gle red'aat on the hilleide' of 


this valley, ne L of excitement, who either 
had ed his foe, or had not yet taken in 
the battle; probably the latter, for he had lost none 


a 


was ordained 
aes 





at 
ha ae ip une et ap 1 ain aa ; 
nn | a 
ph HH in ra see ate if anil Hs nee anti ij Ht 
: Hu He BAHL j ed cea fy Hui 
jul le ibe Hea WBay FFI aPghalaue 
Bu eter He PO AMel eat panera 
a aha rae Ae pale 
ils Een 1U8 al BST Hu bigs 
ELH SUSAHT aI RIT HE any 
Ea ETHIE Ae 
2 ETE 





ARTHUR CLEVELAND 


Te is at present rector of Grace church, 


Kanter Even, 1540. 


Pee ead bea ed acca a it pitteth them to 


let 
Oh, where's the poh porch, 
The a ee where, 
where's t iquo steeple’s height 
To bless the moonlight air? 
I seem to miss a mother's face 
a icy lle 
in mare) 
As round that mother’s tomb. 
Old Trinity! thou too art onal 
And in thine own blest bound, 
They've laid thee low, dear mother church, 
‘To rest in holy ground! 
‘The vaulted roof that trembled 
Above the chaauted psalm ; 
‘The quaint old altar where we owned 
Our very Paschal Lamb ; 
‘The chimes that ever in the tower 
Like seraph-music sung, 
And held me spell-bound in the way 
Whea J was very young j— 


And 40, till Anna 
90, babel od ~ ped 


It was a 








Grieved ay Sarid goelli: 
th ee eat Inet f ‘ 


Wi for thy sin. 
Nay,—alas, thou guilty ced 


thou then 
Joint ula ente bore that; 
Now he knows thee not, 





in Southern Switzerland, and 
England, he crossed the Atdantio and soon 

He rpg i teaching the 

ince 
varions branches of exegetical anid historical 
SL Beka leagues wid tie eosrtion tie 
exception 
tr 1804, whl he peat on a Visto hia 
ite Claret story o 
learning, for its clear 
groupt for its union of doctrinal 
that of strong supernatural) 
‘is upon the church 

hi theran doctrine of divine 


FF i. 

i 

1 
i 

E 

} 

z 


if 
cll 
i 
P 


i 
it 
a 
rad 
lel 


FE 
7 


: 
i 


t 
/ 








JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL 


Ts the descendant of an old New England family, 


hich has held important stations in Massa- 
ch ne Percival settled 


wa tucat 





Febraury 29, 1819. 
in the town, and in 1838 received 


* This faculty be inherited by ber danghter, 


made the first 


when intowerny wih owen ele ths North Amat 


‘the late war in 
Islan, Garman, Pale 


Eat oekcenecer spe Se 


Fic sore 


Authore— it, 


inte ei See 








a 
Or climbing up the starry way, aed a 
wt a ay 
Flacudestehias cies isan me ee eo eae 
Saying, * Arise and fol ‘a summer dream was Margaret,— 
= Ho feeb Tec 9 
Tt is to the death of Maria at Cam- Lorene lehroiiph 2 
bridge, that Mr. wr alludes in hin, poesn dap dee pod my ee i 
pabfehed in Putnara's Magazine in April, 1854, | Ye Circled her dear heud with earcless art, 
Mock ¢ sunshine, that would fain have lent 
THR TWO ANOELA. To its frauk grace a richer ornament, 
Two one of Life, and one of Death, His loved-one’s could speak, 
a wie Sis vila bo is aa LOR Bo ‘in oe dwg, ave dep ware ere — 
eo dawn was on an A ile hestri Sacak ‘too weak, 
Tos penile ne Bertie wish pictons of ack. Betiair pled ‘reflection ta hie blurs; 


Their attitude and aspect were the same, 

Alike their features nnd their robes of white ; 
But one was crowned with amaranth, as with flame, 
And one with asphodels, like flakes of light. 

Teaw them pause on their celestial way, 

MTbeit el, with dep four andl Gon oppremed 
seems Ui on, at bee Loe shes Pere 
The place where thy beloved are at rest! 

And he who wore the crown of asphodels, 
Desvending, at my door nto knock, 
Dads corteeak Stata oes ioral 

‘The waters sink before anu earthquake’s shock. 
recognised the nameless . 

‘The terror and a recor pal die in, 

‘That oft before had filled and me, 

And now returned with threefold strength again. 


‘The door I ed to my heaven, 
‘And listensd, for T thought 1 heard Goi voice, 
And knowing whateoe’er he sent was best, 
Dared ‘to lament nor to rejoice. 
Then with a «mile that filled the house with light, 
“ My errand is not Death, but Life," he said, 


“Twas at thy door, O friend! and not at mine, 
Paueing ogo pete taar at 

a aud wi volwe divine, 
Whispered a word that had a sound like Death. 


‘The mortal who revealed her loveliness, 


She dwelt for ever in a region bright, 
Peopled with living fancies of her own, 


Love enters gladliest at the loor, 
and sles tiie 5 Dears ead 
wore, 


So Margaret's heart a 
And grew in gentleness and wise, 
For she was bat a simple herdsman’ child, 
A lily chanee-sown in the wild. 
‘There was no beauty of the wood or field 
she its t o 
Nor any but to r 
1 grace that in her soul root and grew; 
Nature to her evor 
with innocent morning dew, 
And looked into her heart with dim, sweet eyes 


O, what a face was hera to 
OX bck staine witha aed 


And make it sweet, and ready to become 
Of white and gracious tho the chosen home ! 


None looked her but he straightway thought 
‘Of all the Lato of Ranee, 


He kin’ o' V'itered on the mat, 

fone 
eart kep’ 

pny eden Lig 


WILLIAM W. STOREY, 


Tue and artist, is the son of the late J 
Helga was born in Salem, Feb 10 


1819. He became @ graduate of Harvard in 
ines eweion, ch ani of eae ee 
‘s 0 Forno 
was a frequent. contributor, ~ 
to the Boston Miscellany, edi tye Nathan 


Hale, in 1842. in his el cae © published. 
ts of Cases datérmianite in the 
Court of Enid Sate fr he i r the Firat 

Then, 9 vole Bowen, 1842-5, and A Treative 

ee ea an net peers aces 


Min the lt yaar ho, dvr the Phi Beta 
ditow a poem at Se eee eal an in- 
nof the tastes which Were to govern his 

- Poems was published by 

‘ae ttle and Brown in 1847, are the 


productions of a rman of cultivated taste, an ota 
quick susceptibility to impressions of the ideal, 


Tn 1851 Mr. an honorable 
debt to the memo: af his father; in the publica 
tion of the two diligently prepared volumes of 


The and Letters 
tal ea, write tae -_ 


Mr. 
turned his atten asa 


pa 


one 
jelled 
a “ Shepherd 8 Little Red Riding Hood,” 
and oe pestis crate caro 
these vai pursnits Ww, dit 
Story is an accomplished jusician. H a 
CHILDHOOD, 


Along ae wall in golden splendor stream 
ality eae om the hay dean 


Th @ sweet 
en srery Bixee ges andes surprise,— 
Even as a lark, That carols to.the ses, 
My spirit sung. 
To lie Te errant aren eae 


While roo ur ae ng, , sounded shrilly clear 








‘To count the sraoreiey Gentle oe 

Wasp ‘Coeage ed aeagopelll 

‘The cares of day have thickened round me sinco— 

Work, duties—an at Wondering anoxnce 

oe See were those Toae hours, whose sunny 
of heavent 

sou A eee 


Midi in the dein ci Clasking hammers 

For spate the hum and uml fhe boy yar 

and deserted, where the sickly 

ana ‘the Ne aston Vala abo OOTY, rsa 
silence there. 


apt tira Rt oh 


nestling 
Night hath I etifled I life's deep humming into elamber 
for un hour, 


Ertl srnene Sie ara Soatng ave Tea 
And the lamp in many a homestead aia Bk an 
earthly star, 


Siete 


Oe the headed rand slaacing alle, pyonee 

Nev - stars hang watehing in eternal peace 
we. 

Years and centuries have vanished, change hath 

on their silent pathway 


Ariadae’s crown of eplendor—Camiopsia's shining 


sais Diino the dein Pad 


anus oad Cpldves gece and Charles's Wain ; 
Red Antares and Cay Aldebaran’s mystic light, 
Ricocoebell and Avskarae, Elstar ned Vers whitey 


bien oe nacliatlaad ic fod 


Aa when mystic watchers caw them with the revo 
rent eye of Faith. 


So unto the soul benighted, lofty stare there are, 
that shine 


ale Tee ca error, with a changeless 
Lofty souls of old beheld them, burning in life's 


na hey i a dying ‘& thousand een- 


Love.nnd peemgns, Upet ac) Bieweni ey 
reverent heart may know, 

Mare fata: Shuih. ace pillars that support’ this 

‘These in sorrow and in darkness, in the inmost soul 


we feel, 
of the 
fo oc he hee Almighty's 





ch 











en Ht uy Bi HG a ud a 
pes HA sus ely | atu Hal eae el 
it nel He el i 
+ ete SE i? Hee fel i Bes ian il 
he 
Huet ae tite HE cE i ab EEE Hae as TTT 
pale a Hav ui Hy if geet a ue 
ee laa Hat a Ge aie! 
iiuliuest AE Haba i 
ica ui a iy eats sini 
hatred Hehe aa gazks eee bok vie 
a 
SHEE eA HURE | 





mile inf i 
S Eee as il 
: at . Paes 






a 


| 

i if 
| i 

: 


i fe 3 ; | i 
3 3 5 ape iaGehsis 
iF a He F He eeileGilh 








of the expedition, which had been collected st 
Corpus Obristi to await their arrival. The Ca- 
manches carried off every animal, and, as they 
trouble and a pesahasty doped fe this aioe, 
trouble and as 
rroweitieratelvahe. The news of the 
of the cholera along the whole line of the 
completed the defeat of 


ratam of service in the South-west. Ses t 
has been assiduously pursued by Mr, Webber 
since 1849, and it may be mentioned as an in- 
stance of his perseverance, that he sueceeded in 
obtaining from the last legislature of New York a 

the organization of a camel company, 
and that the Secretary of War has re- 
commended the project to Congress in an otlici: 


wife. With her assistance, as the artist of 
of its abundant illustrations, the foes seins ol 
was 


Co. 
The ion of this work, to be continued 
was impeded by the 


» Here we are P pbanwie a 
sort of awe as we fiud ourselves in presence 
old Sambo, The you leap us with their 
dirty fore-paws, but we merely inde their oa~ 


&¢ 
is 
i 
‘4 
i: ‘ 
ed 
plsluls 


1p 
fi 
Hs 


a 


ni 
i 
i 
i 
l 

F 


his anmtmons have 


a 

Ns and we take 

Tp the Mais iter sh fr is wea rin of 
course. We are soon trailing after him in single: 


‘lof the plantation has been 
terse nach te gon ft 





Py : 

weg 

i 
aT 

ie 
at 

Bs 
Hei 


=E 

. A 
a 
Pad 
ul 
| 


Eg 
: 
i 
j 
ef 
: 
i 
[ 














g 
+ 
i 
He 
iT 
= 
z 


z 
i 
L: 
i 
i 

i 
A 





us. 
ing upon us leaves us exha and dis- | Suddenly the branches of the oak 
inclined Meat baie pat ney Rive a eae Hein tonal codvoats tobe lading the Lowel as 
moon. 
movements of the for some time, “De cat! de cat! look outdown dart" The 
Eeiroens (ish Ware bots 00s oss defies! Dat’s | burst into an eager howl! Teg plas airap ont 


into 
the seencs and sounds once | its midst with the elubs and dead limbs we have 


fis 


i marsh and is DoW home aod ' 

Tri th vin an korn Allis over! We get as we may,and about 

t glimpses have we Catan 4 a of the 
this wild chase! Now our strength fr ter bright silver loots 
ae and our teeth chattersthe Raa clase bey 
seems to be the centre of cold as the sun is of ‘We extep saatiobaly into our bask window, and Heap 

rofoundly for our fatigue, that we have 

“cry of the dogs ie oawar, nd old Sambo and ty ehange ot later of ig nox day, pom 

4. Bacon or the Lind, instead of the “ Night Hunt’ 


a 
eeEleany “Is it all lost?” we exclaim, as we 2 avo 


stillness is Tevey A. Wise, the son of George Stuart Wise, 

i Oe aarti Lai katon an officer of the United States Navy, was born at 

whoo! Hah! that same hoarse, deep bay which | B n, New Yi eee 9. He is de 

= again a ee rapt a=! 

ws Yah! yah! dat ole coon am donesfor! Bose got pe bao ““Peuruddock rebellion,” and 
ni , came on!" _ sent to about the year 1665, 


ie 
i 


FFE 
E 
| 
Ef 
= 
& 
= 
i 
3 
gz 
# 
2 
e 


i that Bose had Virginia 
eomaee oS ae to all ous hain and we |. Pease nid = Saini eam dies the 
follow in the rush to thetree. Arrived ica ak Ga =p oer 
F'n eget po a | Ea a ee 
“Dare he am,” old 4 a fire, nig- pea eeisvel, hs Tea his 
r i of a torch left 
ee eee ee eer cdmma dict wood | Svegeien. Many of tho seomen in his 








HENRY AUGUSTUS WISE. OTL 


and, ung that they bore her weight, caatinned on 
“Hold roared the padron; n, for 


a& 
i 
i 
2 
if 
xii 


r 
Es 
i 

otis 

i 
EF 
3 
E 
: 
E 
E 


i 
a 
al 
ue 
At 
2s 
i 
iy 
fae 
iit 
i 
Hi 


2 
H 
é 
cf 


mote rotator 


longer iver lips 
wih thecther abe Lol a long pol. tad toon alle 
Cart 


: 
Hy 
| 
2: 
i 


! 


Rael, eld fe an inant 


an 
in the face of the Yankee. charge 


fn 
a 
: 
A 


; 
Hi 
i 
rs 
i 
rs 
= 
re 


mutilated ; 
the foree of Lo riod devil! upon 
wr on the pee Uae st with con Take an ont to ‘Sad’ pour the next tine, 


ili 
ie 
+f i 
ie 
ry 
405 5 
a3: 
a 
P 
a 
zee 
stele 
ies 
i 
His 


fl 
if 
i 
ese 
fei 
dik 
z, 
Ht 
Est 
5 
fee 
ee 
a 
Hel 
at 


FEREE i 
He 
i 
Fat 

auile 
Seaece 

ipctirs 
ig: at 
i 
ft 
H 


Fe 
a 
RE 
: 
bg 
i 
He 
e 
F 
fa 


o mail-clad of . 
‘The woman still held on with great speed, and | the tail rose with a diagonal motion; and the head, 
must have known she was ah with a noose | wil distended, : 


z 
if} 
27! 
: 3 
ik 
i 
HAL 
i 
i 
= 
an 
E 
a 
4 
ia 
est 


EF3 
da 
ef 

g 43 
nee 
a 
5588 
i: 
H & 
cin 
ie 
z 
i 
He! 
ne 


z 
: 
3 


— 
ii 


on, with Mak » Simultaneously with our 
ea a ple aaiies anys, Laer pa pa prac 
passed the dense fure us | the projectii es of the monsters, 
Tay the lon Nasr Tagwon, cradle in rie i 
slimy, muddy banks, le directly through the 
centre, leadi 1 Di wea i Dieren es Rrpatently pe tail, At the water once 
esoncian lien F phony idk alitle | stews of the pa i 
a ¥ with a little e 
Sranip of buihes sad and 


E 
ed 

: 
4 
ze 
EF 
ey 
af 

$ 
ERE 


i 


, 

iz 

i 

HW é 
Fil 
fey 

i 

Ab 

Episete 

all 

ie 
BreErr 
eit 


| 


ads eieoilad, sucting a “Odlacc aa 

aati in O 
a coe ae 
rounded Melville’s triple errant, Ta 
tical life. It was not long after he made his 
a asan author, His first book, 7ypee, 
4 narrative of his Marquesas adventure, me Pale 
lished in 1846, simultaneously by Murray in Lon- 
nd Putnam in New York, The 


ing 
co of the Pacific in the public 
ae ake rae? calculated ee 
reception of thi sang R aa ive. 
Tt was received oyu orien usiasm, and’ 
made a reputation for its author in a day, The 
London Times reviewed it with a fall pen, and 
ean the staid Gentleman’s Magazine was loud in 
its 


 Molville followed np this success the noxt 
ess ih aes 3 i af Adcentures in the 


of his ship com; ns in Tuhiti. For pleasant, 
easy narpstive: Rie the most natural bed 

ble of his books, In his next book, in 130 
Mardi, and a Voyage Thither—the author ven- 
‘tured out of the of personal observation and 
matter-of-fact tion to which he had kept 
more closely than was generally supposed,t and 


a, Basa ey ent 
Mintstor, Mr. Lonty MeLane. biel 
pollmical of talent. He died suddenly In London of an 
at Wins in hie fealy dastog book of Tnsido 
tar of aad with Ws Pora, 
and Polynesia—pays a compliment to iz 
VOL, H.—43 


is 
4 
ie 


HE 
A E 
: 


| 


time in his by # return to.the 
eae iad st 2 him 
burn ; his Firat Voyage, ! Con- 
eee tha teehee ont come 

of young sailor, of which the pleasant 
venture of leaving the forecastle one and 
paying his respects to the in the cabin, is 
tance, this book is a of 
incidents. The ja 

the melo-jramatic style, ix not so 

Another course of eareer, the 


@ Man-of-war, published in 1850. It isa vivid 
of the whole life of the ship. The 
here elevated from: 


deseri; ee common 
place and familiarity by the associations 
which run throat Thero is many a good 
word in this. in the “sother 
writings, for the honor and welfare of Poor Jack, 
Punishment by i is w con- 
In 1851 Moby-Dick, or the Whale, er 
most ive of Melville’s 
books, In the charact in Ahab and his 
contest with the w! Be heen Ue aes 
pee energy of despair to physical snb- 
ime of the ocean. encounter the whale 
a ive of moral evil in the 





& eye 


EUS 
eRe at 

be i 
He Hi 


hit 
au 
Boue ii Hk i 
ie ie 





edie 
i ‘a rand iz 
Eis 

7 ee ian 


i z 





3 ait 
Pree yg2he 
| ith, anal ee 
; 3 eh fork : 
' Heal: Hale re He LS 5 a fh iat ie 
pee isd tr (Canasta 
if ies yen fale GER pe ny 
é HF He i412 i ele a3 23 ue = nai 
i fs fal = art iyteel wns ihe 
elvis bite ual any ibaa dae Wigs 
- : yee es oH é 26 fee Le Tree $i oad g Tip 3 
Foe Haile fal let aetnul 
# Lae 8 aii ee HE vies se iy agile aj Hil 
uuiee an : we B Fag ae 28 Heel ahaa! F 3f2 He Hi aad 323 
PAu! ne Haat a He eat f TH 
Hoe eal etplis iG eee eel ae 
ad Yep hapl ian epuere a Hl 
aie uli ee 3 | guna | 
Hee ee Tan Ff ne 
is i el 








five years in travelling the United 
supporting himself by lecturing and writ- 
e 


Mr. Miles’s under 
the staid signature, on the /weua a non tucendo 
‘inci Communipaw, would fill several vo- 


spears part of the world. In place of a cita- 
resent a more 
concise ac- 


mses 29, 1853, ee was as 
by some exception taken at one 

Mr. Miles's letters on Wetternt railroads,—his ac- 
curacy Sener in question on the plea that 
he was | stationary correspondent of the 


In the name of buffaloes and sea breezes what 
would you have, my dear fellow? I've been in 
ov rton the Atlantic, from Newfoundland 
wy Key est; danced over the sparkling waves of 
a no an eee it ne the Galf 
of Mexico; travelled every foot of ‘Mississippi, 
from the Belize to the Falla of Bt, Authony, 2400 
miles, and the most of it several times over; wan- 
dered five hundred miles iuto the Indian territory, 
beyond the white settlements; steamed up the Illi- 
nots; stayed n while at Peoria, got caught there im 
an awful snow storm, and then went through the 

lakes and ane inp to the Falla of the 
tmoreney. { have visited every great curiosity, 
nearly every state capital, and pic pre in the 


night 
near ‘* summit, eecing an eruption with red 
hot rocks shooting a thousand feet in the air; sailed 
EA antes a papcas where Oh. Pash 

at Rhegi aw Coliseum moonlight, 
visited Coraica’s roe! Sardinia od Elba, and 
steamed close to Monte Christo's ; admired the 


Chateau d’If at Marseilles, and 
the vine-clad hills of la belle 

















RICHARD B. KIMBALL, 


the practice of hia profession at W: 
‘York. bat soon atthe terpa 6d do tle Oleg 


resided. 

Ms. Keliaball bys for. soretal Seed Ve 

stant contributor to the Knicker! 

In 1849 his novel St. Leger or the Threada of* 

Tiff sree ejelaten | on Ee ‘Peers liane i= 

Cra, nd doa mental Fopene somegoaas on: de 
an Tepose 

cided faith. In connexion with this main thread 


AMELIA B. WELBY, 
Tue author of Poems by Amelia, first published in 
the Louisville Journal, and afterwards in Boston 
and New York, was born at St, Michael's, in Mary- 











CATHARINE LUDERS. 67) 


Peer besser a samira en onl a ie 
pa bed the numerous 
excellences 


= DAUGUTER pea Ra = 
Eeisecrees Cig one 


Mother! I bring 
Take feacey hind the eeniod boon—I pray 


Take it, the pale sorrow of the fice 
So Pep soul ita living trace, 
Never to 
Since from se ip oe word of le breath 
Blanched calm face—oh! mother, this is death, 


What is it that I see 
From all the pure and settled features gleaming? 
Sp reproach! My dreains are strange aud 


Mother! hiad’st thou no pity on thy child ? 

Lo! a colestial smile seems boftly beaming 
On the hushed lipsp—my mother, can’st thou brook 
Longer sr = victim's face to lookt 


Not deaths mot melt could I say thee ik 
Take from thy daughter's hand thy boon away’ 
Take it! my heart is end, 

And the pure forehead hath oe icy chill— 
I dare not touch it, for avengin, Haren 
Wand ibe pus bes appa as el oan aL 

my e nee a) me, an 

With the closed lipe—oh! tell me, could T know 
That the pale features of the dead were so? 


Imay not turn away 
Tralee een neato I have heard his 


ratey as . het by his people spoken— 

And that high brow, in death, bears seal and token 
Of one whose words were flame: 

Oh! Holy Teacher! could’st thou rise and live, 

Would ah these hushed ipa whisper, “I forgive?” 


Away with lute and harp, 
With the glad heart for ever, and the dance, 
Nover again shall tabret sound for me; 
Oh! fearful mother! Ihave Ee 
‘The silent dead, with his rebukin, 
And the crushed heart of one, to Crag 
Wild dreams of judgmeat and offended Heaven | 





rie at, the roeerie pe geritie by ey 


after hr eas lately @ tala Geen eee 


of 
ar ua tetbed’ and the onke 


the floor was 
And it pleased us hikey met mee 
In the nico new n 


Those merry ry or morn 
To the green West now have come, 

Sagara, like ss aul seacaery 

them a pleasant home, 

‘They've reared a domestic altar 
‘o send up their hymns at even; 
‘Their songs and our own mingle 
Sometimes at the gates of heaven! 


PLASTING OF BAIN, 
We planted them in the rain, 
en 


long ‘dandelions 
When the down is blown away. 


The mur bell we hea 
For herds * 
With softened twilight 
And memories gone ~ 


Wild doves and orioles 
Fgh gs A 
Who great sooh frends aa these? 


Biers at our shat, 
wi np pam 


Tn autumn, ie i eng 
oe nrllab ee 


near yon tree, 
ee ca non he Eaeeeonhy 
Here set by our brothers and 
Petteiiediaee tek reat 
And mou! trees have lain, 


‘The sleeves are both turned inside ont, 
And tell of summer wear ; 
aon ‘seem to wait the owner's hands 
last year bung them there 








Low in sepulchral dast lies Pallas’ shrine— Could I but know when I am sleeping 
Low in sepuichral dust thy Funes divine— Low in the ground, 
And all thy visible self; yot o'er thy clay, ‘One faithful heart would there be keeping 
Soul, besnty, lingers, balawing decay. Wateh all night round, 
le et Hy HEN ei ay eee bed’ beneath 
Not all the blood that stain le— Twould the pange of death, 
Not all the desolation traitors "and ligie the toa 
Not all the woe and want invaders 
Not all the tears that slavery could wring ‘Yes, in that hour if I cold feel 
From out thy heart of patient suffo From halls of glee 
Hob all: ties Hosea loveliness in ni And Beauty's presence one would steal 

quench thy ner 5 , 
But ho o'er the lust of gods enshrined, And come and sit and weep by me 
Ti Benga al cieea. ta Gearenes arene Te aor ug ole 
An oasis to sage and bard forlorn— ‘Oh! T would ask of Memory 

guiding star to centuries unborn, No other boon. 
then iy smmcges gee aes =r Ader apt 

cu: 

rae sad fol ‘wohl dis to rinks thet, ety From all owe in youths est time 
jat oh! there is no Liberty must go— 
Not all the wisdom of th; test One” Draw round me my cold robes of white, 
Not all the bravery of Th Son— Tn a dark 
Not all the wei 8 of mighty Phobos iro— ‘To sleep th Death's long, drearmless night, 
Not all the of the Athenian’s Lyre— Lone and 
Can over bid thy tears or mou. cease 
ee eed eep lovely Greece. JULIA WARD HOWE. 
Where Corint beside Lepanto’s 


Her palaces in tion sleep. 
Seated till dawa on moonlit column, I 


Have sought to probe eternal Destiny ; 

T've roamed, fiir Hollas, o'er thy battle-plai 
And stood within Apolio’s ruined fanes, 
Invoked the spirits of the to wake, 

Assist with swords of fire thy chains to break ; 
But only from the hollow sepulehres, 
Murmured, “ Eternal slavery is hers!" 

And on thy bosom I have laid my head 

And poured my soul out—tears of lava shed ; 
Before thy desecrated altars knelt, 

‘To calmer feelings felt my sorrows melt, 

And gladly with thee would have made my hone, 
But pride and hate impelled me oer the foam, 
To lands and seas unknown to roam, 


It hath been said, for all who die 
There is a tear; 
Beene plotiaeliaieenre neeeh: tet 
er bier: 


of 
And follow me to m; home— 
Solemn and Anat a 


When Lyi 
Tn 


My lowly rest’ 





* Lyoargus. 














Tue father of Mrs, I Samnel Wi the 


New York banker, whose liberality was 
blic-spirit i 


ited and educational ob- 


accession of Charles IT., and who married a 
daughter of Williams, Theis ron Richard 


of the State, and one of his 


Loci Rede 1774 to 1776 a member 
of the Oli ieee This Samuel 
left a son Samuel, who in the war of the 


and was with Arnold in his oe 
our 


; 


tion to Quebec. He was the 
author, 





scandal, with which the traits and manners 
of are exhibited in a genial, humorons 
way. Haven is also the author of a series 
of juvenile works, i a the name of 
a in 4 are stories written to illns- 


Pise 


"marred 
Tn 1853 Mrs. Neal was ed to Mr. Samuel 
L. Haven, and has since resided at Mamaroneck, 
Westchester county, New York. 


‘TREES IN THR CITT. 
‘Tis beantiful to see a forest stand, 

Brave with its own monarchs and the pri 
Of foliage dense, to wl 
Comes with a kiss, as lover to his bride; 
To watch the light grow fainter, as it streams 


Of silver birch, trembling with modest grace, 


who dwell beside the stream and bill, 
Prize little treasures there eo kindly given; 
‘The song of birds, the babbling of the rill, 
‘The pure unclouded light and air of heaven, 
They walk as those who seeing cannot seo, 
lind to this beauty even from their birth, 
We value little blessings ever free, 
We covet most the rarest things of earth. 
But rising from the dust of busy streets, 
"These forest children gladden many hearta; 
As some old friend their welcome ence greets 
The toil-worn soul, and freshor life i 
‘Their shade is doubl; tefal when it lies 
Above the glare stifling walls throw back, 
Through quivering leaves we see the soft blue skies, 
‘Then happier tread the dull, unvaried track, 
And when the first fresh foliage, emerald-hued, 
Is opening slowly ny Ptere 
How it seenes we once have viewed, 
asd childhood's ae Nia pera cmon t 
‘ing spring, with violets clustering round— 
Te dele where twin flowers trembled in the 


breeze— 
The fairy visions wakened by the sound 
Of evening winds that among tho trees, 


And all o soothing influence give— 
And though transferred to 


_ Perchance to breathe alone the air, 








CATHERINE WARFIELD—ELEANOR LEE, 

ft Two Sisters me Seen as 

etl a joint volume, 
Tonant tee 


y ma pate in 1846, 

‘The part taken by either the volumes 

is not distinguished, The poems in ballad, narra- 

note te cele raand Meteo 

pest presi, ‘They have bad a wide popu- 
y- 


2 WALK IX DREAMS OF PORTEY, 
T walk in dreams of poetry ; 
pss me around ; 

T hear a low and ing voice 


ELIZABETH C. KINNEY; SARA JANE LIPPINCOTT. 


Chimed the bells to evening prayers 
Fervent the devotions were 

Of Benedetta on her knees; 

And when her prayer was over, 
A most spiritual air 


She smiled, and crossed herself, and smiled again 

Upon the heretic’s sincere “ Amen !” 

be Oe ee ee 

Tt was the same on that sweet southern tongue— 

And pa T blessed the faultless 
eorircie ha 

bi es bathe tie hehe place; 


ree ‘ards, as I passed along, 
And to the co 4 
Marmured this t of a broken song ; 


“ Hor eyes, the deep, delicious blac 

The stars and I love to look through; 

Her voice the low, bewildering tone, 

Soft winds and she have made their own 

Benedetta, Benedetta!" 
She was not by the fountain—but a band 
Of the fair daughters of that sunny land. 
Weeping they wore, and as Wept they threw 
Flowers on a gre Then suddenly I knew 
Benedetta dead : 


And weeping too, 
Awhile with 2 e Leet & Lap mnt stood, 
le er com] 
faery ta SE 
indens flung a glimmeri 
And the old fountain pisrae: sd 


~ ELIZABETH C. KINNEY. 
Mrs, Exvizanera O. Kreyey is a native of New 
York, the daughter of Mr. David L. Dodge, amer- 
chant of the city. She is married to Mr. William 
B, Kinney, editor of the Newark Daily Adver- 
ee ee s and lite- 
journals of y, tan er poetic com- 
pent Pee have appeared, 1850, she accom- 
jed her husband on his mission as Chargé 
| Affaires to Sardinia. A fruit of her residence 
abroad has been narrative poem entitled Falicita, 
a Metrical Romance ; rule, a a into 
Moorish captivity by her * Who is rescued 
by a slave; and after having through a 
sorrowful love adventure, dies inaconvent. The 
oe occasional poems of Mrs. Kinney have 

not been 


Tite araRE OF FONG, 
Eternal Fame! great rewards, 
‘Tarcugvoct all ee, shall be 
‘The right of those old master bards 

Of Greece and Italy? 





Acai fi 
‘And docked with heavenly dyes. 
Thus let the affluent soul of Song— 
Tet ebayer 
Strew life's uneven along, 
And bide its thousand thorns: 


‘That Avarice breeds ‘twixt man and man, 

While moving on, in caravan, 
Across the sands of Life, 

Yet not for these alone he sings: 

Atty hep ieee ces 
"Ai cards the tied 

He thinks not of a future name, 

Nor wheace his inspiration came, 


“ Grace Greenwood,” born at Onondaga, in 
the State of Now York, of Now England percat- 





ALICE CAREY; PHEBE CAREY. 


Where thou, the daughter of aking, — 


‘Wail'st like a breaking: string— 
Bend'st like a weak and wilted 


nee burn through the air, 
i fall far down upon him there, - 

Like lightning stroke from heaven! 
There should’st thou mark o'er bill orest, B 
RN ott 

C) rs But at 

No vain bi qeivering round thy heat! 
And this ie, baraing prayer alone 
Leap from thy lips to Jove’s high throne ; 
* Just -wrathful vengeance stay, 
Aslavcd ine tale ye areapt ma 
Make vain the siren's silver song, 
Let nereids emile the wave slong! 
O'er the wild waters send his 
iter 

wi 
Ai de tar ck 
ehh ma 

Aad blast hiin should he dare to tara!" 


ALICE CAREYPHEBE CAREY. 


Attoe Carer was born in Mount Healthy, near 
first attracted noti 





4 writer 
National 


zg 
s 
#3 


expressed. com- 
mon with her prose are drawn 
from her own observation wa em foreleg 


vicrieEms OF MEMORY. 
Among the beautiful pictures 
‘That om Memory’s wall, 
Is one oan old forest, 





‘MULSEREY MILL. 
Oh, sweet was the evo when I came from the mill, 
Adown the mn Wit of Hill: 
heart like a bird with its throat alf in tune, 
sings in the besutiful bosom of Juno, 
For there, at her spinning, beneath a broad 
Baie sie td "taal 
I first enw my May tiny feet 


And the buds Teeny among her hair. 


SSS tell you, but words cannot paint my de 


i! 
When ehe gave the red buds for a garland of white, 
When her chesk with ‘solv blesiies att na, tis 4e 


vain! 
Enough that I loved, and she loved mo again. 
‘Three summers haye come and gone by with their 
charms, 
And a cherub of purity smiles in my arms, 
With lips like the rosebud and locks softly light 
As the flax which my Mary was spinning that night, 


And in the dark shadows of Mulberry Hi} 
By the eee a ghey eles oct tha 


And the rivulet shining and bluo aa the sea, 
My Mary lies sleeping the broad tree, 


Hilds hath « thonsand meadows— 
Boundless forest landa: 

She hath men and mids for service— 
Ihave but my hands 

‘The sweet summer's ripest roses 
Queens paled to see her beauty—+ 
But my beard have L 7 
Hilda from her palace windows 

down on 


HARRIET WINSLOW LIST; ELIZABETH LLOYD. 


in 
Le tee 1848, and of @ volume, 


the notes of spirit bands 
Tn full aud glorious choir. 


‘That the corn is gathered for the bread, 
And the berries for the wine, 

And a sacramental foast is spresd, 
Like the Christian's pardon sign. 

And the Year, with sighs of penitence, 
The holy feast bends o'er ; 

For she must die, and go out hence— 
Die, and be seen no more. 

Then are the choir and still, 
The melts in ri 

‘The Wind bows dowa beside the hill, 
And all are hushed in prayer, 


Then comes the Sunset in the West, 
Like a patriarch of old, 

Or like a saint who hath won his rest, 
His robes, and his crown of ; 

And forth his arms he streteheth wide, 
And with solemn tone and clear 

He blesseth, in the eventide, 
The sabbath of the year. 


HARRIET WINSLOW LIST. 


Tax following poem was brought into notice a 
few years since by Mr. » Who inelnded 
ui tk won priate th of minor pecs 
© Tt was there anonymously 
the omission of a few of its haces author 
was Miss Harriet Winslow, since married to Mr. 
Charles List of Pennsylvania, 
‘To THE UNNATIRIED, 

Why thns Io thus for ever si 

pt oi nafs aii 
While the beautiful all around thee ! 

Offers up its low, perpetual hymn 
Wouldst thou listen to its gentle 

All thy restless it would 
Leaf and flower and laden bee are 
first to All. 





689° 
Poor indeed thou must be, if around thee: 


It poiben eyed of love hath bound thee. 


Ry eee ee 

Bt rrp earring - 

Canst thou win and wear the immortal crown: 
Dail, struggli thongh unloved and lonely, 

Eve ay ach reward wil is £ 
‘Thou wi by 


Dost thou revel in the i 
Whon all nature hails the lord of light; 
And his smile, the mountain-tops adorning, 
Robes yon fragrant field in radianee bright, 
peepee te bd ae 
proprietors shine: 
But with fervent love tf then adscosk 
Thou art wealthier;—all the world is thine, 


Nature wears the colours of the spirit; 
Swoetly to her she 


sings; 
All the , race, she inherit 
Round ler trusting ehild she fondly fings, 
ELIZABETH LLOYD, 


” Tt was stated in the newspapers to have 
te an Oxford edition of Milton's 


Tam weak, yet strong: 
Lamar toh, at Uno longer 
Poor, old, and helpless, I the more belong, 

Father Supreme! to Thee. 


O merciful One! 


there is no more night, 





if 


F 
Z 


i 


de: 
i 


i 


2 


ie 


&, 


i 


z 
& 
= 


; 
¢ 


? 
: 


I 


z 
3 
, 
3 
=z 
z 
& 
: 
= 
z 


+ 
z 
= 
: 
af 
aie 
¥ 


terres s 
tits 


g 
= 


zt: 


F 


se 
& 


eigen ya ake: home front coiael) Sha aee 
wert ms! tuore,. pale, blue, 

ae erence now she remembered 
to look if they were there still, Bat thon; 


ecurrant-bash, she eoulil nat sce 


ey auvettarevthi eke kept 
tears, when she looked on the one flower 





- 
ii 





her oe 
Like waves that gambol in the Summer's glance, 
Untwining bowers from their Winter's 


Unlocking rivers from their 
Tin leaf ith rendre; tak had late 
id, like gold within the torpid grain, 
er 


‘The Spring is j—-and blushing summer comés, 
Masic and her scented 4 
The bin ine throng a ae 


Oh! not a yision here but it must 
Like our own image fom Lifc’s spectre giaisy 


un 
q 
HEL 
: 
a 


fF 
il 
z£ 
BE 


ere 
iL 
i 
- 
i 


gEy 
iH i 
i 

















in America. In a rather extensive appendix to 


Ena 
far; 
itt : 
ete 
Hite 
7 F 
PELE & 
eT 


grad 


HENDRY R JACKSON 
Was born at Ath Georgia, in 1820, He is 
a former: 


the son of Dr, sae ly 
of natural phil y in Franklin college in that 
state, was edneated to the bar, and early 


ey 
for Georgia. At the commencement of the war 
with Mexico he raised at Savannah a company 
of one hundred men, called the Jasper Greens; 
marched to Columbus to form a regiment; was 
elected colonel, proceeded to Mexico, and served 
with distinction, On ee eee 
ed Judge of the Superior Court of the 
District of Georgia, He is at present Resident 
ee to which he was appointed 
in 18638. 


In 1850 Mr. Jackson published hits Ths 
collection of fugitive verses, Tallulah and of 
are chiefly local, and of a 


geri 
i 
Hf 
ul 
& 
3 


ze 
F 


z 
a 
a 
i 
y 
i 


5 
z 


Eee 
| 
i! 

E 

i 

E 


© 
But they all are gone—the bold and free— 
moans above their grave. 


HENRY W. PARKER, 
Toe Rev, Hexey W. Parker, of Brooklyn, New 
York, is the author of a volume of | pub- 
Hebe Oe ee to in 1850, It isa 
delicate book, many of refinement and 
echolarship, while a in philosophical texture 
runs through it, An ix contains several 


Go forth and breathe the purer air with me, 
And leave the city’s sounding streets; 
There ix another 5 

















ledge 0 : 
ed suuch to their success, Diverted 
ner from his 


Mr, 
city of New York, November 17, 
ok orders in the Episcopal Church in 


ae 


gf 











at Troan 
tr i: i 
He al HES nue 
ceaiie igsigcce 

Halal Hie 

ft ee 
i Heal He HE 
SHU dune 


£ 








sel 
: 


He uf te 


ane Hee 


dnd 


a 


isl 


iif 
: 


i 
a 


ee 


i 
Aa 


als 


S383 


3 
2 








ae =) 


a 
ii Hi 
ie 
aa i 
ee |i 
lt 
Sal 
Hal | 

















a PUTER Uy 
it 0) Hine i ea ae 
hd Vad tt cia al fal ae : 
ane Gf pel neal i ieee a ul Leal 
r ill : en pills pean ace ee 

“Usk "al Hh Ha PEE Hara 
| He ditiii a0 adit Fe Hie Bir : 

Ape eae Tee HAG arnt piel ; 
any | PERE EM Hu 
HATH ty pile ae Pea 5 
died | ils Pee ss 
2585 43< ofa i! ie a : bySE=% re ; 
ig fea dee ena gala) A 
dll ea if iu Hapa i 
Sie at te} 
Tui ue aa le ee HEHE ie 


school, tehell e: Yale, 
as course in 1841. His 





much interested in te Rr oui the ¥ 
salvar sup toe: tho New York Aprotucral | Ai rain 
a silver eup from ew ter: 

in the » In 1853 
Boolety, wy nites the &plan of urns bal : Spay ee he eae: 


in this manner every county, and in Europe, in the of materials 
to the Albany Cultivator. Lorunies fora roped wry af Veni stored hme 
months on the continent he returned and | the summer of 1 We is at present residing 


Europe, and passed some of the eventful months LETTERS—VROM THE REVELICS OF A BACHELM, 
yarda Blessed be letters!—they are the monitors, 
at 8 i Sofitel ate arnt YES are also the comforters, aod the est ny re 


it 8) it multiplies, it retires, and it advances, as 
the talk of othons presses, relaxes, or quickeus. 

But it is not so with Letters: you are, with 
only the soulless pen, and the snow-white, virgin 
paper. Your soul ix 

7 ath pla a there are no sncers to 
vuttera: 


Ob, the: ) the freedom, the : n of a letter! 
It is worth all the Ii of the world. Do you 
ety poet up, acted, rehearsed, coms 


Let me eee it then ; se gi a erat = ~ 
age, sex, cireumstances, om if it 
dD studied or real; 1£14 bo the merest lipslsng pub into 





On his return, Mr. Mitchell published in 1850, tie, and open, and run over, with sich sorrow, and 

The Battle Summer, Transer such 

Prranat retin Pari rie zig th snake m6 for weeks afer. a kinder and holier man, 
i -volamer © | familiar hand of a mother—what 

carried the quaint of style, somewhat np- | “whine ode a tong —— 


from out the 


cf 


The latest ‘of Mr. Read, publis 

in Plain 1805 drag ih tailor 

elaborate Tis compositi & series of 
‘Hank 


g 


: 


e 
i 

| 
Fete 


barns, looking from their hazy hills 
ech dawn tas Ob sproatag $e ibe ail 
wo a to 
On the dull Kinade of seus fiails, 
All sights were mellowed, and all sounds subdued, 
The bills seemed farther, and the streams sang 


low; 
Asin o dream, the distant woodman hewed 
His winter log with many « muffled blow. 
Th’ embattled forests, erowhile armed in gold, 
Their banners bright with Sot Copy hue, 
Now stood, like some ead beaten of old, 
Withdrawn afar in Time's remotest blue, 


On slumb'rous wings the vulture tried his flight; 
‘The dove scarce heard bis sighing com 


And like a star slow drowning in the light, 
‘The village church-vyaye seemed to palo and faint, 


The sentinel cock upon the hillside crew; 
Crew thrice, and al! was stiller than 


Silent till some reply ‘andever blew 
Fp rae a in [ners athe Oa 
Where erst the jny within the clm's tall crest 
Made garralous trouble round the unfledged 


; 
beeen light wind like « conser fa tro 
Where sang the noisy masons of the eves, 
The busy swallows cireli near, 
Poreboding; 0a the vile mind bellaves: 
An early harvest aud 4 plesteous year; 








corer tre of yr ee 


f “ 
ired matron, with 
Plied her swift and with her joy 
‘Sat like a Fate, and watched g thread. 
She had known sorrow. He had walked with 
Tantie trailing dast. pm 


Re-gave the swor}—but 
And struck for liberty 

Nor true 

Fell ranks of the invading fo 


‘but not loud, Mia drosng vine went omy ¢ 
Baer 
Fated hrgh her ie 8 oa end trematons 


At last the : 
Hote thread was, tndpped, ‘har Weod. ‘wha 























” PREDERICK 8. COZZENS. . 


much information on the important of the 
pee pepe es it iaenal ty 
man ver essays range 
practical metheticn. 


BUNKER MILL; AN OLD-TIME BALLAD, 
1S yeaa emer eae the air was soft, and 


Bent way te lepig town, rod wrowned 
fleet, 
Het ths poet Nae not of slaves, within our 
bosoms beat ; 
dus oy et ‘ose high with hope, as fearlessly 


“We will be numbered with the free, or numbered 
with the dend[" 

‘SBP one ie line eas the trench, and atreteh 
it on the eward I" 

‘The trench is marked—the tools are brought—we 
utter not a word, 

bree our guns, then fall to work, with mattock 


le, 
A hows en with sinewy arms, and not a sound 
So ell were wo, the sae beneath, that scaree a 


fell ; 
Wehbe the red-cont’s musket click, and heard him 
sry “ All's well!” 
And here and there a twinkling port, reflected on the 
In wn 4 wavy shadow showed their sullen guns 
Lf i thea bloody hireling crew! in carcless 
slum’ 05 
The trench is ‘ing broad and deep, the breast- 
work bi and bi 
No striplings we, but bear the arms that held the 
French in cheek, 
ih di ph de a a thundered in 
Quebee! 
And thou, whose promise is deceit, no more thy word 
we'll trust, 
‘Thou butcher Gao! thy power and thee we'll hum- 
ble in the dust; 
stig Ten thy tory minister have bonsted to thy 


“The enc of the faithful shall be sprinkled with 
But te ek walls those lintels be, thy zeal is 
A thousand freemen shall rise up for every freeman 


alain 

And when oer Peigaoe erowns and throues they 
raise the mighty shout, 

Boece éstine shall be; their altar this 


See how the morn is breaking! the red is in the 


ak: 

The iis ereeying from the stream that floats in 
silence 

The Lively’s Pin looms through the fog, and they 
our works have api 

For the ruddy flash and roundshot part in thunder 
from her side; 

And the Faleon and the Cerberus make every bosom 


thrill, 

With and shell, and dram and bell, and boat- 
senin'e whistle aliill; 

But deep and wider grows the trench, aa spade and 
mattock ply, 

For we have to cope with fearful odds, and the time 


drawing night! 
you. n.—45 





705 
1 inh pleads Our gaNant Pass 
te eee eee 
Up with the shout! for Purxam comes upon his 
With spur and foamy bit, in haste to join the 
ant, ih hi mower adh 
Te ee 
sot Hot, thie wal giiwing/ te tetera 
Tavanyduabie Wases, thou (the youngest of ky 
WerP bos) dec tres ond slap) aod wade to me 
1 pew tl 
Well may ye bark, ye British wolves! with leaders 
Net stew to follow where they choose to lead 


iss 180s naiivel the road ye tonk fa ol 
Ye slew a sick man in his bed; ye slew with hands 
‘A sotber nating od her blood fell on the babe she 
By their own doors our kinsmen fell and perished in 
Bea evoked a hireling’s cheap, and dear n free 
By teiectirodh) aad Seat ete eee 
Fi Lack the eeocxighins 0! Sule eaten 
Hark! rls wvtaven beopel ‘The barges at the 
Areca gan they 
wae ae a glitter, tramp and drum, in all its 
ae the splendid sacrifice move slowly o'er the 
Andel od ie args lan il arom the 
Like ‘deri slong the sky, the hoellle trane- 
‘nd bow Giey'e forming af tie Poist-<and now the 
We apts sultry sun their polished bayo- 
We te ah hing rn the bale al 
Cie Wart To the hing clo, and ro 
But rath Bulwark stands, tremendous in 


Assia we sky, and silent as a tomb, 
till ‘we saw, at searce ten rifles’ 


nieeeoun a. 4 hace 
When | lash on flash, around the jagged rat 
Pron every en the livid light upon the foe 

Then quedo monarch’ might Beloe fe ors 


Tae BLEak thn sverd shervebicenth lies heer NE 
the yeoman’s fire; 





Tn the autumn of that he prepared the 
Nile a goa Hoenjh geh of fre on 
written, a it stands, upon the Nile, Dnvi 
ee was connected with the Rubin wee 
Papen, and the following season the 
Cees! by the Harpers and by Bentley in Lon- 

In the summer of 1851 a ing tour 
furnished letters from the fashionable 
places to the Tribune, and the autumn and winter 
were spent in Providence, where a second series 
of Eastern reminiscences and sketches—The JZo- 
wadji in Syria—waa written, which was Ba 
lished by the Harpers the next spring, and the 
same publishing season the Tribune letters were 
rewritten and printed, with illustrations by Ken- 
sett, inthe volume entitlod Lotus Bating. . 

Returning to New York in the antomn of 
1852, he became one of the original editora of 
dteiche of sous), tho Potiphar Paper, which 

es of society, ti wi 

wore collected in a volume in 1853. ides the 
Potiphar Papers, he has written numerous arti- 
eles for Putnain's Magazine, including several 
poetical essays, in the character of a simple 
minded aden clerk, with his amiable, com- 
mon-sense wife Prue for a heroine. Dinner 
Time, My Chateaux, ani Sea from Shore, belong 
to this series, 


He has also written for Harpers’ Magazine a 
Leeper srs paper on Ni * some 
ba of jonable society by Sun Jr, and 

her 

In the winter of 1853 he took the field as a 
popular lecturer with suceess in different 
of the country. 





* In the number for August, 1854, 


Hamboldt, t cosmopolitan and & p 
vides the erin ny Necetian ae porte wt ths 


ut 
fey 
i 
it 
a 
i 

= 


Hl 
ise 
He 
ie 
is: 
ql 
e 
i 


5 
i 
i 
i 
it 


ee 

3 

i 
bi 
z 
z 


stately Ischia, palm of Capri saw all that was 
and famous in the bay of Naples. 

A wand poet, whom I kuew=-cang a #weet 

song to the , ws he dreamed in the moonlight 

that flit be) Ar essa 2 

syinpathy. was only sy! moonshine. 


nor nor V: nor stately Ischin, 

broad bine beauty of Naples bay, waa the theme of 
it 4 iy it sung of a river for ever 

flowi: of clou ‘skies, and green fields that 

never faded, and the mournful music of water 

wheels, and the wild of a i | 


palm. The Pope iocke epee lin ream on 
i Flabella attend- 





FRANCIS PARKMAN. 


A privacy of glorions light. 
Each aingle tree has a little shade that the mays 
standing at wide ease can never create the shady 
solitude, without which there is no grove, 

But the eye never wearies of pli ore than te 
ear of singing binls Solita: 
sand, or upon the level, ferti ae 
a grace and dignity that no tree surpasses. Vory 
soon the eye beholds in thelr forma the ail 
type of the columns which it will afterward admire 
in the temples. Almost the first rite : architeetu- 
tally suggestive, even in those 
but to artists pie Hots | them a secing only 


them! Men's hands are not delicate in the early 
ages, and the fountain fairness of the is not 
very flowingly fashioned in the enpitals, but in the 


flowery perfection of the Purthenon the 
triump. ‘The forms of those columns eame 
Egypt, and that which wos the suspicion of the 
earlier worl was the success of more delicate 
desiguing. So is the palm inwound with our art 
and poetry and religion, and of all trees would tho 
Howadji alm, wide-waving peace and plenty, 
and feeling is kin to the Parthenon and Raphael's 
pictures. 

FRANCIS PARKMAN. 
Frascis Parkas, the son of anesteemed cle: 
man of the same name, was born in Boston onthe 
sixteenth of September, 1823. After completing 
his collegiate course at Harvard in 1844, he made 
a tour across the Prairies, the results of which 
were given to the ori in aserics of papers, The 
Oregon Trail, pee es in the Knickerbocker 
Magazine, and afterw: in a voluine 
with the title, Stewhen of Prairie and Rocky 
Mountain Life. 





Mr. Parkman next occupied himself with histo- 
rieal composition, Familiar with actual Indian 
life on and beyond the frontier, he naturally 
tarned his attention to the many pictu 
scenes of a similar character in our annals, 
selected a subject Le seope, and ayes 


len virgin en 
he History o the Conspiracy of Pontiac, and 





| 


the War of the North Ameriom ae 


Colon esafter the 


a historian, His volume is written in a clear, 
animated tone, givitg in its pages due promi- 
nenee to the aresque sonnery as well as the 
dramatic action of its topic. 

Mr, Parkinan is at present 


THE ILLIom, 
We turn to a region of which, as +, we have 


caught but transient ar which to 
our forefathers remote and si as ie 
or 


the mountain strongholds of the A) 
wastes of farthest Oregon. Tho country of the Tili- 
embraced within the boundaries of 


from the east, the west, and the north, Peni 
rivers rollod their tributary waters; while countless 
smaller stroams—smaller only i 
versed the land with a network, impreguating 
the warts soil with exuborant feeandity, From the 
eastward, the Ohio—La Belle Rivisre—pursued its 
windi for more than a thousand miles The 
Missieatp descended from the distant north; while 
from its fountains in the west, three thousand miles 
away, the Missouri oar poe its torrent towards the 
samécommon centre, Born among mountains, track- 


less even now, fle by the adventurous —_ 
of the ata amid the howling 
beasts aud Faecal of savages, never silent in 
that wilderness,—it holds its angry course ‘hy 
mn-scorched deserts, among towers and Mary 
architecture of no human hand, among |) of 
barbarian hordes, and herds of bison blacke: rae 
prairie to the horizon, Fierce, reckless, heads! 
exulting in its Gee force, it plays a thousand 
freaks of wanton away forests from 
its shores, and tng tn, 

5 sreceping off islands, rebuild- 
: and ug in foam and whirl- 
pool, ane wil 
re eee oe At 
curl it t pours: 
tant Mi of jestio river, drawi 
from the pure fountains of the north, wi 
among ics and aiioreeted 
Sat Seated eee eee 
union, rst, it shrinks, as nn 
along the same channel the two streams side by 
pel with unmingled waters But the ee 

er prevails at length; and the united 
pers, aves in might, boiling 
many a vortex, 
ser duryi ign dee Sma an 
and fever, ing in ite. ‘to insnare 
Hs heedless vo: Mightiest a Ube) ae is 
opnsetiog tk ef clase 


caedasat and See af heuertae anwar 
fur-clad elisa shivee| in the er it copier eretigs 


ae a | 


ah aren 


in ite asi, ode pan 
hand teed with fe, 


le inte the rela 
life 
leving 


"te these great rivers and their 
the country of the ae re eee 
jea, nnd the state 
rich soil. This role 


4 & 


ERASTUS W, ELLSWORTH. 
Smee olen eee eres 


nical ingeno'ties, and has mainly wd himsel 
a3 an inventor or machinist. A poem 
from his pen, i Lyric, is an eloquent 


Ree pa eee 


‘WHAT m Tux VER? 

I saw a man, by some accounted wise, 
For some things said and done before their eyes, 
Quite overcast, and in a restless muse, 

Pacing a path about, 

And giving out: 

“What is the use f" 
‘Then I, with trne respect; What meanest thon 
By those strange words, aud that unsettled brow? 

ealth, wealth, the fair esteem of ample views, 
‘To these things thou art bora. 
But he ws one forlorn: 
“ What is the use? 


“Thave surveyed the sages and their 
Map, and the natural world of woods and 


Seekin, ee that I would ehoose ; 
Bat find no ed Sods 


Settled and understood. 
What is the use? 


i Ans oles basen ouabting said bake 


Even in a breath bounding to cach extreme 
Of joy and sorrow ; thertiire Liaise 
‘All beaten ways of bliss, 
And only answer this; 
What is the use? 
“The hoodwinked world is secking happiness. 
* Which way?’ thay ory, J “nol ‘theret" 
“who can guess?” 


And 50 the , and and d 
so they grope, grope, Grope, an 


“Love first, with most, then wealth, distinction, 


Quicken the and spirit on the game. 
Some Le fre all, ‘and fil alike vsakane 


“Tn woman's love we are undone; 
Willing to attract, but to be won, 
Harder to keep, is she whose love we choose, 

Loves are like flowers that grow 

In soils on fire below. 

‘What is the use! 

“Some pray for wealth, and seem to ght: 
‘They heap until themeel ¥en are out of ate 





‘Yet stand, in charitles, not over shoes, 
And ask of their oldage, 


“Some covet and they have therr choice, 


try for fame—tho merest chance of things 
‘That mortal hope can wreak towards the wings 


bar ins wae a Mig Nori ‘or lose— 
Who knows? Not he, who, dead, 
Laurels 4 marble head. 


“The strife for fame and the high praise 
Bears great tous, thee soloing al is ewe, 
ER acti fore tain x 


“ Fame is the spur that the clear spirit doth raise 
To scorn deli; and hve 18 
‘Thus the great lords of spiritual fame arnuse 
‘Their souls, and thiuk it good 
To eat of angels’ food. 
What is the usef 


“Should some new star, in the fair evening sky 
Kindle a blaze, startling so keen an eye 
Of flamings eminent, athwart the dews, 
Our thoughts wonld say: No doubt 


“ Who'll care for me, when I am dead and gone? 
Not many now, and surely, 


“Spirit of Breath of i ! 
Perel nef Semor wi 
iy ig TAptare F 


its brow, 
easy now, 
But hopes to be? Vain hope that dost abuse! 


JOHN R. THOMPSON. m3 
2 in reflected serene, Through the vista of away, 
poy ee fete stink wel aace tae 
‘Thus let eases dione sei psaiae ave Like some magical picture the sunset reveals with 
Ever the of purity be its colors of erimson and goli— 
All soffased with the glow of the ruddy 
‘What saith the Streamlet, Dlaze, from beneath the gay “mistletoe bough 
Flowing ea tirigist, ‘There are faces that break into smiles as divinely as 
ber etedeear reg any that beam on us now. 
While the Old Year departing strides _ghost-tike 
“toe ad orang ig ‘long oer tho hills that ‘are dark with the 
tented, storm, 
Chewefal water ay bt To the Aes te bee bee oe to the brim, 
an warm: 
What saith the River, Look more—as 
“iat wie evecare 
r ever 
Cally and wow habiabert fn ae nat es ae minke Ld 
Cea it ne meme tong Wiss Pelee lesa So 
Work thou too, er; life vanisheth fat, on the old-fashioned wainscoted wall, 
unceasing, rest ‘ot last.” ey eres favored of look down on 
7 rnertn ai Oe rerah anit 
Veena cant: mr fo frre oe weddeltloquent vere, 
Boundless aa ni, 
Tumultuous in motion, Yet outshines’ not the benny that ha rahi below, 
gerapr ig are red in a moment takes captive the 
“Pountain streamlet, stream! river, 
All in my bosom commingle for ever ; elite have pracetipeay in, Oe 
Scopes | wana rhc at a wo 
eisai m sent via tom sn faraway trope line 
But the guests of the season, alns ede 
JOUN RB. THOMPSON some the shores of the stranger have trod, 


Was born in Richmond, Va,, October 23, 1823. 
He was educated ata school at East Haven in 
Connecticut, and at the University of I cra 
where he received the degree of Bachelor of Arts 
in 1845, having an interval of two years 
in the study of the law. In 1847, he became 
editor of the Southern Literary Magazine, which 
he has since conducted. 


A e- Mmprn 


Mr. Thompson, besides the articles in his own 
journal, has pret enerery numerous to the 
nickerbooker, Literary World, and national 


is editorship of the M oot an 
lived periodical Tr the Sonth, ma always an im- 


portant inedium of communication of the best 
Bonthern anthors with the public, has been mark- 
ony its liberality and Hed authors 
all portions of the country. ical writ- 
ings are spe with care, nad ly a delicate 


‘THE WINDOW PANES AT NEAXDON.* 
As within the old mansion the holiday throng 
id et ‘of th ‘window, by chance, 
And some ont e 
these a | Peso ttera iv trace— ° 


memorial 

How the psi a rwif-coming ba frum the su, 
in an instant, surrounds us 

be, the shadowy figures of tered we have loved, 


etly are seen on the shore 
sent Bot tie tame th lana Shea 
have composed the sald ng anf 


thas Raoptiocts tea Bey ems ete Sal 





And some names have Tose long agi earvad oi Gia 
stone, where they sweetly rest under the sod, 


Bop ecaeaats Sere bike bath Ea 

aya eri arte yao the pen, and 

Still at I aball remuin— 
Sa 


The Boe aneeh in the memory of frends 
who yet linger a season behind, 
Recollect, oh soul Th ea aoe 
Rea. ta Te ee 
Recollest the iiltecey tablats of fatwa taive sen ere 
as brittle as glass: 

Oh then be not content with the name there inserib- 
ed,—for as well may you trace it in dust,— 
Tatrenwet eae fake 

the hearts of the good and the 








Sweet as a sleeping ‘infants 


Yet in hor sloop, her ‘ot would ope, 
To close again Wehind theie fngy eloudee 


perchance, 
To dw aga etd tne ng lady 
ps, 


Oliver, She seareely woke from her first fainting 


here; 
Or if she did, she gave no siga nor word, 
lost in 7 


Awhile she muttered, as if 


Some who stood close thought once they caught 


th: 


name; 
Bot rel bad dalled my seams, I sould ot oer 
toa jethargy ; 
rEFS she eon knew not when she went. 


Calaynos. Here is the paper which contains her 
I fain would clear her name, fain think her wronged. 


t 
O, double-dealing villain !—Moor—bonght her | 
Impious rinuater Eli beyond belief! 
But she is guiltless—hear'st thon, Oliver? 
Nay, read; I cannot move thee as she can, 


He called me Moa ren irunitait ero 
¢ called me Moar.—' wroug: 
teategioty Gh Talos here ga pee bias 

it back to save in ; 
7 Saud te tose by telliza her. 
I see how he could heighten that ‘wrong, 
And spor her nigh to madness with his taunts. 
She was senseless, without life or reason— 
Why tigers spare inanimated forma— 
Bo bore her of ‘Then lie on lie—O base! 


guilt all mine, Why did 


I hide my birth? 


Ah, who can tell how so0n one seed of sin, 
Which we short-sighted mortals think 5 
May sprout’ and bear, and shake its noxious frui 
Upon our heads, when we ne'er dream of ill; 


For nought that is ean ever 


away! 
Oliver. And shall this villain live 
Cala, No, n0, by heaven! 
‘Those fellows on the wall would haunt mo then— 
and blood, 


T hear your voices, men of 
Ring imine ear and 1 


meord, the 
How preslots ta 4ho bla wich jestioe wields 


the call, 
walt, 


‘To chasten wrong, or set a wrong to right! 













UJ 
eres 


seeeue 
i ais 


E 





SB 
2 

g 

H 

by 

4 
& 

Es 
1H 


i 
i 
IF 
ul 
HS 


ih 
i 
ih 
SF? 


BSE 
i 
iat 
cere 
i 
aH 

a 





RICHARD HENRY STODDARD. 


And thou art revealed to my purified vision. 
I sce thee, supreme in the midst of thy co-mates, 
Standing alone ‘twixt the Earth and the Heavens, 
Heir of the Sunset and Herald of Morn. 

Zone above zone, to thy shoulders of granite, 


‘The climates of nbs Spleen Pa ae Sees 
Giving the scope of the Book of Creation, 
There, in the that widen, descending 
From clond and from cold into summer eternal, 


Gather the threads of the ioe.gendered fountains— 
Gather to riotous torrents of erystal, 

And, giving each shelvy recess where they dally 
‘The bi of the North and its evergreen turfage, 
Leap to the land of the lion and lotus! 

‘There, in the wondering airs of the ies 

Shivers the Aspen, still dreaming of cold: 

There stretches the Oak, from the loftiest lodges, 
His arms to the far-away lands of his brothe: 

And the Pine-tree looks down on his rival, tie I. 


Bathed in the tenderest purple of distance, 

‘Tinted and shadowed by pencils of air, 

Thy battlements hang o'er the slopes and the forests, 
Seats of the Gods in the limitless ether, 

Looming subliinely aloft and afar, rj 

Above like faids of ial ermine, 

Sparkle the snow-fields that thy forehead — 
Desolate realms, inaceessible, silent, 

Chasms and caverns where Day is a stranger, 
Garners where storeth his treasures the Thunder, 
The Lightuing his falchion, his arrows the Hail! 


Sovereign Mountain, thy brothers give welcome: 
They, the bapticed and the ecrownéd of ages, 
Waich-towers of Continents, altars of Earth, 
Welcome thee now to their mighty assembly. 
Mont Blane, in the roar of his avalanches, 
Hails thy accession; superb Orizaba, 

Belted with beech and ensandalled with palin; 
Chimborazo, the lord of the regions of noonday ;— 
Mingle their sounds in magnificent ehoras 

With greeting august from the Pillars of Tleaven 
Who, in the uras of the Indian Ganges 

Filters the snows of their sacrod deminions, 
Unmarked with a footprint, unseen but of God. 


Le, unto each is the seal of his lordship, 

Nor questioned the right that his majesty giveth: 
Each in his awful supremacy forces 

Worship and reverence, wonder and joy. 
Absolute all, shes in dignity varied, 

None has a claim to the honors of story, 

Or the superior eplendors of song, 

Greater than thou, in thy ry mantled— 
Thon, the sole monarch of Africa mountains, 
Father of Nile and Creator of Egypt! 


RICHARD HENRY STODDARD 
Was born at Hin; Massachuvetts. THe has 
latterly resided in New York, where, having pre- 
viously been a contributor to the Knickerbocker 
and other magazines, he published in 1849 a first 
collection of Foot Prints. In 
jon of the author's maturer Poems 
of Tieknor and Co, The 


Sire He has achieved some suocess in the 
di province of the 


Tare accompli 
themes in song with graceful simplicity, 


| 
| 
| 














ACTIMN. 


poeta Lp sketch thee best, 
‘oF ever cl jangeful vr 
Who guess thy certain rr crest, 
dey pie jored robe? 
Sometimes we see thee stretched upon the ground, 
In fading woods where fast. 
Dropping to feed thy tusky 
jing among the leaves the ripened mast; 


asleep 
Pillowed on sheaves, and shaded from the heat, 
; With Plenty at thy feet, 
Braiding a coronet of oaten straw and flowers! 
What time, emerging from a low hung eloud, 


forchend at the of Heaven 

‘Then T beheld shy presence full revealed, a 
Slow trudging homeward o'er a stubble-field ; 
Around thy brow, to shade it from the west, 

ant of ra snore, in @ crown ; 

Wheat-sheaf, slipping slowly down, 

Fogeed Ushi cena waist, and cathy brea, 
Linked to a belt, an jen flagon ewung ; 
And o'er thy shoulder flung, 
‘Tied by their stems, a us 

Bell shaped and streaky, 


aot of dering 
wes blown wan lire ; 
A ph nat nse inal eph hry oa 
the light, 
Along the fields of H 
Gud upetateae, ees 
‘And J owis left ad uw, $e taedsiote, 
Hark! hark !—I hear the in a row, 
Shouting their harvest blithe and loud, 
Cutting the rustlod maize whose crests are bowed 
With ears o'ertasselled, soon to be laid low; 


was flown, 





Oh | oh wondrous 1 
aeeelch rat pet, 

To bethe le, while a whole Nation 
Catches the echo from the sounding strings. 


Out of the ‘of feeling and emotion 


JOHN L. McOONNEL. 
Mr. MoCownet was born in Illinois, November 
11, 1826, After law with his father, 
Murray McConnel, a lawyer and 
politician of the West, he entered and was gradu- 
ated authe Transylvania Law Sehvol, Lexington, 


Ky. 

"On the sixth of June, 1846, he entered the re- 
giment of Col. parting, ss & Yolunteer in the 
ranks. Before leaving the rendezvous at 
he was made first lieutenant of his combenys 
eee toa captaincy at the battle of Buena 

ista, where he was twics wounded. After 

ing out his term he returned home, and com- 
the practice of the law at Jacksonville, 
Mlinois, where he has since re-ided. 

Tn the spring of 1860 Mr. Mce@onnel published 

Talbot a Vern ; in the autumn of the same 
Graham, or Youth and Manhood ; and in 

851 The Gleans, The scene of theso novels is 
laid in the West; and the author has drawn on 
his experiences of the Mexican War and his skill 
asa lawyer in the construction of his 

These were followed in 1853 by Western Cha- 
racters, a collection of sketches of the prominent 
classes in the formative period of western society. 
de of a most successful volumes. 

» MeOonnel is at present engaged nae a 
7 Early Ba of this work, be ha o listory 

rly Explorations in Ame javing espe~ 
cial reference to the labors of the early Rowan 
Catholic missionaries, 


A WEOTERY POLITICIAN OF THE FIRST GROWTH. 
A description of his nal ay like 
that of Pigs other Suan wil enkiteg Bo aa 
img ‘ion of his internal ie, 
a description probably combined more eha- 
Tacteristic adjectives that of any other person- 
a frelno ee ope pier 
to man nei respectivel, it 
alt of whieh wih be raphe ‘upon i only 
io was gaunt, angular, swarthy, acti 
ihe. Hie bale’ wae invariably. biaek arsthe 
portion which 
the cap of racoon-skin sab erpeses sn ths actions 
the gray was i 








jee 
ie 
ett 

[ELE 
ae 
i 


i 
i 
A 
i 


EF 

H 
i 
rete 
fil 


date | 
ihe 
i 
i 
‘i 
audi 


Te 
Hie 
i 
: 

‘ 
‘ 
a 


fe 
ae 
i 
& 


run 
a steamboat, or command an army, when he had 


siliency of hie nature justified ! 


. . . eat rrr wae 


AUGUSTUS JULIAN REQUIER. 


Of sea and continent and elime and tongue; 
Striking the with whose sublime accord 
The w! rung! 
He. went forth bio eee 
Tus erent by the basting crag eerbang, 

torrent ie 
And the aoe on its Brink that gleams 
Unharmed, and lifts a to the sun! 
‘The muttering of the tempest in its halls 
eS darkness Sareea alone 

an o'erwhelmi liance which 

e turbulence of Ocean—the soft “oer 


Y the grey 

‘That leads the star-crowned Night adown the moun- 
tain way! 

These were his themes and more—no little bird 

Lit in the April forest but he drew 

From its wild notes a meditative word— 


The potent ring of her profoundest spells, 
And wrote great Nature's Book! 
They people earth and sea and air, 
The dim, tumaltuous band, 
Called into being everywhere 
By his creative hope = 
Iu kingly court and savage lair, 
Prince, Sars Priest, and and Peer, 
And midnight hag and ladye fair, 
Pure ns the white rose in her hair, 
And warriors that, on barbéd steed, 
Burn to do the crested deed, 
And lovers that delighted rove 
When moonlight marries with the grove, 
Glide forth—appear! 
To breathe or love or hate or fear; 
And with most unexampled wile, 
To win a soul-enraptured sinile, 
Or blot it in o tear. 
Hark! a horn, 
‘That with repeated winding shakes, 
O’er hill and glen and far responsive lakes, 
The mantle of the morn! 
The simples ofall simple 

0 irs 
That ever drew from inher ‘tears, 
Touchstone and Audrey, hand in hand, 
Come hobbling o'er the green; 
While Rosalind, in strange disguise, 
With manly dress bat maiden am 

dewize, 


Which, spite herself, will look 
Fen in this savage land; 
And her cony like the flower, 


That beaten by the morning shower 
Still in resplendent peace stoops, 
Looking loveliest whilst it droopa, 
Step faintly forth from weariness, 
All snowy in their maidenhood ; 
Twin-lilies of the wilderness— 

A shepherd and his ah 

Iu Arden’s gloomy it 


But comes anon, with halting step and pans, 
A miserable a s 5 
Revolving in each lengthened breath he draws, 
The ee Bere of material laws, 
‘That life is bat a span, 
Secluded, silent, eolitary, still, 
Lone in the vale and last upon the hill, 
Companionless beside the haunted 
Walking ie stars in the meciian bear, 
vou. 1—t 





trees, 
Cleaves the dark billows of the Night 
Like a shot-smitten sail on flight 
Over the howling seas— 
God! what « piercing shriek was there, 
oe wild and drear 
It re moistened hair 
ut 


soar 
A voice which ries theeattifed main, 
“Glamis hath murdered sleep—Macbeth shall sleep 


Mark theca, while the cauldron babbles, 
Thro spells the sight, 


ae 
Pratt 





bese Saa73 ye eggs 3 
ae ih Hh i ey al Hele el 





a2: aad: ay Ht ¢ jk 4 
cue ey i a HH il uboalis 

















! r 
ee Pat fee Pe 2e8. 8 23 see 
| Se ed endl 
ATE iia saat (int 
ia Hien z GF : ae 2 b2sedzeistes 
ig i] aap A iF Pate HH i] yee oa fi i F 
: bai By Eee ati iui f BL get iit 
na ae ine a aan rH 
ne ATU UCR Sere we 
hg ign eet et Hu et ial 
at teelitill He i Fie ay Fain 


of LLB.. those who the 
gE han complete the regular 
Another of 





spirited 
Pie He sueczeded Professor John Fin 
Smith in 1844. Professor Smith merges 
artist of rare gifts andl attainynents, 


The grounds about the college have been recent- 


ly enlarged and iin ay now embrace 
twenty acres, w! re 
ted with trees and flowering 


ff ovides telthies foe che mig ae wlaseabte 
ior 

pee Plato’s College weap ets, FP 

tans and olives,—philosophy cnd trees have 

been fond of each other’s company. The 


4 ii i 
this valley lies the village of Clinton, eters tone 
lation of twelve handred, In the distanes, to the 
ie eee ck Liles, tie aay the Mohawk, 
the Trenton hills are distinotly visible, 
enema tees Za eee elevation, and 
extended, unbroken horizon, render it most favor- 
able for astronomical observations, An Observa- 


stone buildin used as a ‘hall. 
bas boon fittall op a Onbin ol aoe oe 
tains ten thonsand ous in , Minora- 
logy, and Natural 


. A Gymnasiuin has 
also been built and attractively furnished. 


County of Albemarle, Virginia, about. mile 
and a west of the village of Charlottesville, 





* Wehavo pleasnre In . compe 
tent ‘aa feo -- ue Face’ Gants 

‘ai fostitution the peculiar organization of whieh 
has been Ilitle understood. 


Ee 
zt 
i 

Hil 
a 
a 


: 
Has 
j 
5 
He 


228 
He 
eee eae 
ual 
ot 


TH 
= 
iF 
=e 
Ir 
e 
E 
: 
f 


Be 
i 
J 


A 


ve 


# 
te 
ap 
[ 
: 











on i i Mat 
i" A a ie a i 
a i if ant Heal ba ul 
alee! iia apni id ihagall ie inl 


Hage Hu ee {tig eee Apia 












2 


piel fis 
SE 


but they are ordinarily rae si rel 


schools, 


‘The session is of nine months’ du 


as 33 ey a 


ry 
ay ii reli ee 


rietiht) iiteseec. 


ircen' anv tres teraineod the cohccie 











RT 
=. 


na i i 


te 
HH 

HE 
: HE 
ite i it LS a 

Hae dial ae 1 aM Ae 
ae £ t AG ay i HH ing ie Ri Hie] apes HE i 
ie a a ili Bal a Ht Hue ie Hl ‘ah 
it ening eat ite Maly 
iit a wht iy Bt aE 
its nce ete ts Ute ligeitebgesdd edna ue ste HATE 


ee pee 








THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA. 


Codieeaty Bm ap ages ere 
so oper In the school 
also an i 
' real 
entire session: 
clas oveany 
aly al 
inns 
as 








haat 


EMI tg adi cneeanett aGtelil nu rit 


sae SEetig cecaTHe gy lee Hale 
Bn ae i He a als 
Hie 22 i aH 5 ih 3 
‘teen te ie Hae HE na : nue ite 
UEP RRR HUE PRUEE EAL He et iialaal 








THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA. 


ia rgigas Brau eee Hy aU Ee 
ily i ae at ble na if fa feat inal 
asin uaa Batt te 
ee RAE eae Fe ih 
este sii ueiie ht iytn einen aad 
ills Pie | een Hu LAELIA a heey 
AMPH IRENE Petites desttbn Mune 


at re 
rior, His only work bore the title of | present incumbent of the chair is Socrates Mau- 
Induce and this did not meet with M.D., EAA membered ayy ren 
suvcess, Among his pupils, he left behind him | Hein rey ols nia, and in Rich- 
pon nd Seger onl | sie ey and an alumnus of the 
vei ni ithe 
His sucesssor, Mr. Sylvester, of England also, The fire professor of Medicine was Robley Dun- 
who remained only part of one year, was tol- se ce href 
wed by ster pain po Feeney is learning in his profession a8 
sy ara eth | eae aera eee 
wl a in ni was, 
aml again in the U: of rather to afford tho op; of cultivation in 
Beneuyleanles endl eianpet ie Ga the Hep res boo a 
his death in 1858. He left behind him a work on s.r years aor and has 
ee wi gained a celebrity 
latel nm pudlished, ailoj as atext- | ability as a lecturer, and variod valu- 
Dok in the University of Vi sien pm eh treme ve bey mg 


abe 
Ss 
| 

L 
i 
i 


duties, aud not les his ane ing integrity, his d 
retiring modesty, and his amiable condescension, | raedical department of the University of 
won for him the unbounded confidence aud regard | land, all men of learning and abi i 


: 
| 
i 
if 


of his colleagaes and of his pupils. fession. 
The chair is now filled by Albert T. Bledsoe, The chair of Anatomy, enlaee 
LL.D., a graduate of West Point, furmerly.a pro- | (now of Comparati 7, ete. been 


fessor in the University of Mississippi, and the | ed tw the original schools of ee 


} 


author of a work on the Will, and of one entitled | now filled by Jaines L, Qabell, MD,, 0 Virginian, 
A Theadio; and an alumnus of the university. He was pre- 
L. Warner, M.D., of Mary- 

in the Richmond 


Ys 
Upon the of Mr. Charles le | ceded by A 

nents Seal of Noveal Piilbshy to tt land, eee professor 
M he was sucoseded J College. 








THE UNIVERSITY OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK. 


Churchman's Defenee its Aspersions by 
ec has been professor 
of Sera pros ‘the Hon. W. W. 
Ellsworth, professor of S . 

THE UNIVERSITY OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK. 
Tms Heat ie a ety yt ot 
tions of a few gentlemen of city of New 
York, whom were the Rev, J. M. Mathews, 
afterwards ecllor of nivorsity, and the 
Rev. Jonathan M. Wain of whom we have 
already spoken, A pam was r 
several con’ of 


which was printed with the title, * 

tions apon the Expedieney and the Means of Es- 
tablishing a University in the City of New York.” 
This was read at a meeting of the friends of edu~ 
cation, held on the sixth of Ji 


a8 an exp views of the as- 
sembly. A charter of jon was obtained 
in 1881, by which the nontof the Univer- 


sity was confided toa Council of thirty-two mem- 
bars, chosen by the stockholders of the institn- 
tion, with the addition of the Leis and four 
members of the Common Council of the city. 
The University commenced its instractions 
October, 1882, with seven professors and forts 
two students, in rooms hired for the purpose 
Clinton Hall. Tho first ne ey ae se Me 
students, was graduated 1 an inet 
lic commencement held in 1834 in the Middle 
ith Church in Nassau street, 4 
Steps were immediately taken for the erection 
of a snitable edifice, and the edifice was commenced. 
in July, 1893, and so far completed as to be occn- 
pied in 1836, It was ly dedicated “to the 
purposes of Science, Literature, and  Reli- 





‘The Univorsity of the City of New York, 


gion,” on the twentieth of May, 1897. The 


building the front of an entire block 
of ground, the Washington Parade Ground, 
ane was the first introduction, on any considera- 





rl 
3 


au 
i 
a 
E 
i 


il 
i 
it 
li 


iF 
Eze 
He 
FRB 
KE 
al 


es 
iu 
ze¥ 
i 

s 

z 

j 


; 
A 
ie: 
i 
ee 

: 

Ej 


— 








4 
(eee 42 eee 2 ed re ; z & ied aE alte bn 
a ie / eit alt oh : i iat Hine ain 
“6 jaa 1 Ee y HE ea | 
# i ; : onl Hee i se ate Hf) Te avai 7 
Hater uu a janie i i hadh np a 
= aeaags! 7 
I DTT RR pdt evra tie cae fae 
The TE rar papel Bei 14) ques if ae 
mal sh nae ty ih i Pi fecal 7 ae | 
feltiig feed Musee Mid Gling a ae 
| Hat tail py a 
Pe ULL ELUTE RE pet rere ees Hed meer Peete | 
mle ' nu Be ads 32 maar ae if st PT 
SUSHIL aE A eer eee SM 





‘The Sinithsontan Epotitntion, 


were to be published in qnarto. For the diffn- 
sion of knowledge, it was proposed “ to publish a 
series of giving an account of the new 
discoveries in sclence, and of the changes made 


complete collection of the transactions and 

ings Seed the learned societies of the . 

More important eurrent 

and a ane of all soa raineseal biblio- 


cA 

Cin fet of tho series of inal memoirs was 
the volume of Messrs, Squier and Davi: 
on * The Ancient Monuments of the Mississi 
Valley,” published in 1848. This has since been 


For the library it was:proposed first, to form a 
the 


topics of astronomy, paleontology, pl 
botany, phi and branches of 
— A a rontibateterae Mr Sears 


and the Sore and de- 
pe ate ny oa a nnene American an- 


pub! 
Temperature Tables, Tables of Precipitation, and 
Charts of Temperature, and a manual of direo- 
tions and observations prepnred by Mr. Arnold 
Guyot, suthor of a volume of lectures on com- 
geography, entitled “ Earth and 
Professor of Geology and Physical 


oe 





i 
Bs" 


i 





: 
igs 


i 


13 
mi 


E 














of the library building; one hundred and twenty 
robasing books and furniture ; 
while the remaining two hundred and five thou- 


sand dollars were to be invested “as a fand for 


tion of persons consulting the library.” A site 


id in March, 
1850; the whole was completed for the preserib- 

i summer of 1853. The following 
extract from the Report for bre fe) exhibits 
some Locavore beeen of the nt financial 
manugement which has attended this under- 


An additional expenditure of $1590, for groined 
arches, which became desirable to render the build- 


the building, including 
Waring, venilati , anid lighting, and the shelves 
needed for the The ranning length of the 


| 
selection was made from the latter, a plot of | 
and thirteen thousand 


sata rei orcas eas 
feeder pig hk mre 


Of the fund of $120,000, especially 
parkas of eats te bemanenec 
entire precision the nded 


i 
ip = 


amount up to Decern- 
bor 31, 1853, for the reason given ia ty traaauree 
report, that several of the bills and sccounte yet 
remain unliquidated. He states, however, 
amount ey es te ea 
and he estimates the bec olan tn | 
$96,118.83 In all. ‘This will leave an unexpen 


E 
#7 


an 
balanee of we es Oe 
remaster ee 


: 
F 


oe 
one 
| it 
it 
Hoy 
zee. 

aH 


i 


i 
zB 
i 
Fs 
: 
i 


f 


Fz 
BE 
2 

u 
i 
Hi 


FI 

Ey 

i 

z 

8 

28 
Ba 

i 

: 

F 


U 
He 
ri 
i 
it 


iE 
i 
He 
Ht 
BHE 


Ecelesi ivisions and relations to 
Fae acts tol hoch bee Sey 
To these divisions is to be added “a 

t, to embrace 


Li 








INDEX oS 





[The capntals indents tho longer blographies! articles, which ma 


Abbot, Benjcaany Mi, 165 
Abbot, Joha, fit profemor of Bowdoin, f,198. 
St 


Abdy, Mathew, i. 126, . 
, John, hia reception of an American re- 
of his writings, ii. 122. 
Absent father, the. Hew Ainslie, ii, 161. 4 
sealers of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, ii. 


6. 
inns, treatment of. George J. Minot, i, 481, 


Acadians, 

Accidence for Seamen, by Captain John Smith, i. 6. 

Accounts, G. Washi: with the United States, 
re] of, i 1 

Acherley,  L 162, 


d Jefferson, eulogy on. ZE Mf, Bracken- 
ridge, i. 673. 

Adams and Jefferson, enlogy on, by Wm. Wirt, i. 
619. 


189. 
Adams, Charles Francis, edition of John Adams's 
Diary, i, 184. 
Edition of letters of John Adams to his wife, i 


185, 

Memoir of Mrs, Abigail Adams, i, 185. 
Apams, Hasyag, i. 408. 
Apaxs, Jon, i, 184, 

Admires the French ladies, i. 188. 

nt ae 

pliment by, to arren, i, 
Co with Cunningham, i. 635, 


Bancroft, i, 407. 
Notice of lines on-Amerieca, i. 169. 
Notice of the Col of New Jersey, i. 273. 
Notice of Common. i, 198. 


be consulted for the detailed seeount of the persons referred to, 


of Benjamin Rush, i. 
Notice of Charles Thomson, i, 
R of the Act in America, i. 186. 
on, i 330, 
Satirized by T. Paine, i. 
Adams, J. G., for Christian Devotion, 1, 699. 
Avams, Joon » i B56. “4 
Barlow's song on the discoveries of 
Lewis, i. 396. ‘ 


‘Lines on Cotton Mather’s literary industry, i 


62. 
Adams, William, discourse on Prof. Stuart, ii. 20. 
Aner cutie New York Convention. John Jay, 


Addieress feu Concha BR. ©. Winthrop, ii. 501. 
Anizn, Geonor arated 


Al aa by gr Ac Poy 9% 

. Berkeley's, written at Newport, i 

ii. 499, on 
yt the ing Callags# 


Berner ede ae Bg 
Alfieri and Dante, George H. Galeert, il, 974, 


"1 Bat 


pes mt Curolina, 1681, i 151, 
Asten, Abraham, a friend of James Nuck, ii. 678. 
Astor House. AfeDonald Clarke, ii, 262. 

Aston Liunany, ii, 740, 

Astor, piles B,, donation to the Astor Library, 


Atalantis, yw G. Simms, ii, 497, 
Atheneum, tou, books of Cotton Mather, i, 62. 
‘Athenwuin, the, at Yale, 92. 
‘AMtontie Joortal and Frivul of Knowledge 

revel an end a, 78. 
Atlantic Magazine, ii. 272. 
SS ee Tales for the Marines. 2. A. Wise, 


ieee Or eniah, first President of Middlebury 
College, ii. 130 
Auchmuty, Samuel, letter of Dr. 8. a to, L 191. 
‘Auchtertool.  Alezander Wilson, i. 65: 
Avpouos, J.J. i 650. 
Intercourse of C. W. Webber with, ii 666. 
sarees on A. Wilson, i. 547 


Anfustioe age of Osgood B74 
uatine, Age 
‘Aunt Dineh. JO ons 
Aunt Kitty's Tales, by in Melotosh, ii, 885. 


Aurelian, by Wm. Ware, ii. 1 

Avaris, James T., ii. 61. 

Austin, eer President of University of Vermont, 

ii, 180, 

Austin, William, i. 658. 

Authorship, by ry aa iy _ 

Autobiography of Franklin, 
Sketch. Caroline Gilman, ii 

179, 


aeioeapis 8 collections of W. B. Sprague and B. rR 
‘eft, ii, 219. 

detent Landacape ts fart 

Automn au. ret, ti. 556. 
Autumnal Reflections 8 Woodworth, ti 71. 

A Year's Life, by J. R. Lowell, ii, 660. 

ne by R. a Conrad, ii. 547. 


hanalian Dialogue, Philip Frencau, i. 847. 
Bene A.TD., i. BTM y 
Bache, Fraukliu, i, 678, 
Backus, 


pe 

‘acon, Francis, passage on Death, 

Baconlan Piilowphy, discourse of the, Wy Samuel 
eae 


pat John, ii, 488, 
Balen ‘Abraham, i i. 87, 308, 


Barzan Lrrenatcer: ov tare Ixntax, Frewcu, avo Iic- 
vouurionary Wans, i 427. 





a Hero, the. ‘Nathaniel Niles 1715, 


Bold Hawthorne, £ 442. 
‘bardment of Boa ange i 44h 


E 


Howto ot Dake 1766, i. 434. 


tien eet Libary. New So: ea ne 


see ee ee i. 437. 
North Campaign, the, i: 
Ode on the ide of Banker 3 HH 


ae ehitenta of Pennsylvania, 1766, 
beers erst the oe map was tarred and 


On fers, weer ot i 447. 
weloome attorney general Cortland 


Pikneer 1776, i. 445, 
Poem, 8, containing some remarks on the pre- 


Bren of ick B the, i 450. 

ir Jack Brag, the, i. 

ws inkhvined Ree age Robert Dine 
«Fin re, right Geni sin 4 
grog and Testament. 

i reece on 

Sige of Sento the (97 Rivington's Gae 


| lt 


Bigelow, Jacob, ‘on Count Rumford, i. 972 

Bigelow, John, ii. 185, 628. “ 

ica een pi fgeene i ies 

Bicvow, Wmutas, a 

Bill of Rights of shusetts, remark on, by 
Rufus Choate, ii, 287. 

Bi Caleb, i. 568. 

Binney, Horace, ii, 283. 

Birds a View of Ns England, poetically di 
an cw ly de- 
scribed. Francis Ky ia. 

Birth, the, of a Poet. John tke 164. 

Bishop, George, 1 54. 


Black Hav, addres to, Edward Sanford. ii. 407. 
Blacklock, T., lines to, by J. Beveridge, 1 128. 
Blackmore, Sir Richard, eulogy on, by Jane Turell, 


Notived’ by Cotton Mather, 1. 63. 
Blaettermann, oe ii, 730. 
Brain, Jasces, i, 82. 
Blair, Samuel, i 272. 
from Rev, S. Davies's elegy on, i. 272. 
Bland, Ri |, 237. 


Bras a aeeeaeae 236. 
Bleakly, John, i, 179. 
Bursoker, Any Exiaa, t. 365. 


Jotn Cotton, i, 21, 
Blea Tea Discussed, ican Win ——. i. 33. 


ie lias, slegy on Aquila Rose, 
Body of Liberties, by Nathaniel Ward, He 19. 
Boxer, Geonoe H, il 714. 
Beniparte, = ne Lae 
naparte, ose and F, Lieber, 
G. A. Cabearts ii, B70, 


Lee, i. 667, 
ane isos stints 
joticed by Pinkney, 5. 

Bonifacius, b; Cotton Mather, 


i 63, 
 nagelet Bap Raveotione ce of, by Washington 


rving, i 

Book Makin i ieee ©. F. Ingersoll, ii. 42. 

Book ‘of Howe Beauty, by Caroline M. M. Kirkland, ii, 
565, 

Bae are poem. William Livingston, i. 


Rooks nameore binding of, by Thomas Hollis, i, 


Boston Athenmum, ii. 260% 
Boston Atlas, the, i, 68%, 
Boston Bard, the, ii, 255. 
i oea Tee began by Women, verses Ben- 


pistes es eetbad tip hn Somaya, £90. 
23 ae England, poom William 


Guach George Bancroft, ii. 809. 

Mosman the. Quincy Jr.'s course in reference 
to, 

Manes. Doe, passages from. James Allen, 

Miscellany, 11. 663, 

ee 


Recorder, li, 438, 
Toa Party, incidents rolating to, ti. 672. 


Bemlidéta atboottime Uae 
Beswals raat mention of the: Chevalier Taylor, 

of Ji A es ee 
Pome ee James Lago, mereg 


< Carsita stl ooogin Op ues 


of New. Joma i 25. 


ae =e 


bes reheat (ST. 
tor to Pistas et Gratulatio, i. 18. 
Bowen jects founder of Bowdoin College it 


neff reper 
ests for the advancement. of the Christian 
ig + ded for Tndian scholars at 
William and Mary, i. 82. 
Reflections Swift, 1. 63. 
Boylston, defends a 
Bracebridge Hall, b: Lapeer cae ts 
Bracken, Jol ‘Mary, 84, 
Bacau , Huon Huxny, & 288, 


430, 
Bord, Alden, mot o J Mayhew, iss 
Bexoronp, Wizttam, Gov., i, 30. 
Verses on. Josiah Winslow, i. 
Wii, pita, end simanas, 16, 
i 
Hie Weeki Soares, 
Bravetnger, Axwe, i. 47. 
‘An ancestor of R HL Dano, ii 89, 


i181, 
Brat dene, Moire of by Wiliam L. Stone, ii 


Bravo, yr Sg 
Breaks Son tions of Hector St. John, i. 


the, i 80. 
Frederika, intercourse with A. J. Downing, 


couplet from 
Life of, by, Wachgton Hes ii, 48. 


Campbell, W. rips le 

Canaan, Conquest of, ‘Timothy t, 5 

Canada, conquest of, by George Cockings, 1 

Canot, Capt. by Brantz Mayer, ii, 617. 

Capen, Joseph, epitaph on John Foster, i. 105, 

Capture of a Whale J. #. Cooper, ii 118. 

Caner, Autor, ii. 687. 

Caney, Hesay C., ii. 157, 

Caney, Marnew, i, 640. 

Carer, Paxex, ik 687. 

Carey's. whos contributed to by Hugh Williamson, 
L 

Caribbeana, i. 100, 

Carnahan, James, president of College of New Jev 
ey, £274 


Canouwa Lrreaarver, Eancy, i, 131. 

Carolina Sports, by Wm, Blliott, ii. 101. 
Carpenter, Stephen Callen, i. 657. 

Carriers’ Address, 1720, by Aquila Rose, i. 99. 


eae E., ii. 99. 
Carroll, B. R., Hist. Collections of South Carolina, i. 


Cannvrnens, Wor, A., ii. 436, 
Cartaphilus, the Wanderiag Jew, by D, Hoffman, i, 
66. 


Writes notes to “ Ontwn,” ii. 250. 
Castile, es Ladies of, pasange from. Mercy Warren, 
i 164. 


Cat, Poet's (Byles) Lamentation for the loss of. Joreph 
Green, i, 122. 

Catacombs of Rome, the, by W 1. Kip, it, 552. 

Caresay, Manx, i. 182. 

Catherwood, Francis, ti. 420, 

Caunonicus, Speech of, a poem by John Lathrop, i. 
61 


2. 
Cavaliers of Virginia, by Wm. A. Carruthers, ii, 436, 
epee 
iy ih 5 
spate erate 96. 


Chalmers, Lionel, i. 181. 
Chalmers, Thomas, tribute to Jonathan Edwards, 


Champions of Freedom, the, by & Woodworth, i 


71 
Chandler, Abiel, i. 533, 
Cnanocer, Exicaneru M.,, ii, 465. 
Chandler, T. B., notice of, i. 380. 
Channing, Edward T. and Francis D,, i 90. 
Cuansixe, Wieuam Excuses, ii, 21 





42, 
James, aceount of, i. 200, 
Cheever, Ezekiel, account of, i, 60. 
Carnven, Grorce B., ii, 453. 
Cunxven, Henny ', ti, 465, 


er of, quoted in reference to Frank- 
in, i, 106. 

Child Japhet, the, Paul Allen, i. 643. 

Curt, Lyons ii, 388. 


Child of the Sea, the, by Estelle Anna Lewis, ii 639. 
Childhood. Willian W, ar 


4 603. 
Chinehas, the Governor of the” G. W. Peek, ii. 650. 
Chittenden, W, B., 
Modern, 


286. 
Letter on R. H. Dana, Jr,, ii, 690. 
Swnithsonian 


Withdrawal from the Institution, 


5, 
Philosopher, by Cotton Mather, i, 63. 
rrenisay iki Cotton Mather, i. 65, 
Church, New Views of 0,4. 
Brownson, ii. 835. 


Altice B. Neal, ii. 633. 
Alonzo, historical discourse, 





INDEX. wl 
Caled’ & Cosas de Espana, by J. ML Mackio, i. 630.0 
Columbus, life of, ianernae ren Seen 
his first voyage. Wim. 2. Prea Life of, figohe Noetons alee as cont 
- ty Pealme o Ordinanee," 
Come in the Moonlight. J. 8. Kidney, ii. 658. ‘Countess . he Ca 412 - 
Come to me, love. O. Bmbury, ii. 486. Country, Aa Invitation the. Jane 
aero nen feat acca ibe Hh ole 135. ao tml) bem 
Ae Olly from, f. in- | Country Lovers, a ballad. Fessenden, i, 597. 
throp, i. 185. Country Oven, the. H.C, Knight, ii. 1338. 
Gomie Annual, by HL J. Finn, if 28. Country Sehool-Keepin, Eb Garment 
Coming Home. “Phebe 683 Couries and Enquirer, the, 1118. 
Coming of the Mammoth, by H. B. Hirst, ii 691. Court of Fancy, by Thomas Godfrey, i. 195, wi | 
Commencement Day at Harvard, i. 15. P, from, i. 196, -"t 
Common Sense, by T. Paine, i. 198. Courtin, the, J. FR. Lowell, ii. 662. -| 
Common Sense, Essay on. : i.20%. | Courtship in cut. Samuel Peters, i 103s 
In Deshubille, by David Everett, i, “ Cousin Alice,” ii, 682. 
Companionship of the Sexes in the study of litera- | Cowper, William, and his female friends, ii, 493. 
ture, fi, Cox, Wruttam, ii, 416, 
Comparison of Joha Locke and William Penn, | Coxs, ii, 066. 
Lid ii, 806, Coxe, Sarnuel HL, ii. 656. 
Condorcet, Life of Vol i, 18%, Cozzxxs, Fuxprnck §., ii, 703. 
oe ee 6, 1775, by John Diek- Srndeak, Skcipal ae eae Gee aed 
inson, i. . 
Conneeticnt. FG. Halleck, Hi. 201. Cralle, Richard K., edits J. C. Calhioun's works, iL $5. 
Connestiout Aendemy of Arts and Seiences, ii, 289. Cnaxon, C. P., ii, 582. 
“Connecticut, Farmer's Boy,” verses by E.G, Hal- | Crania Americana, by & G. ti. B77. 
leck, ii, 207, R Resrar Meee Wao ee 
ee rte graces EY! Dr. 8. Peters, i. Saas i ii, 415, ie 
91. Cresap, Michnel, ‘Logan the Indian, by Brants 
History of, by jamin Trombull, &. 808. Mayer, ii, 517. 
River. J. GC. Brainard, ii, 227. Carveowun, H. Sr. Jon, i 178, 
Account of, Sainuel Peters, 1.192, Crisis, the, by Thomas Paine, i, 198, 202, 
ete pagel Critic, the, by William ii, 
rps by Washing ae ee Sees ee by A. H. Everett, 
Sporto in, ‘ashington Irving, 7 
Cornap, R. T., ii. 547. Croaker & Co., ii. 208, 
Conservatism and Reform. FH. He ii, 422. Croaker, Jr., To, from the Croakers JR, Drake, 
Conspiracy of Kings, Joel Barlow, i. 398. ii, 206, 
Constitution John Randol; fees Croakers, the, ii. 202, 
Contemplations, na radareart Crocodiles of the St, John's river, William Bar- 
Continul of the Churel of England by & Sea: tram, i, 226 
OeRiaan caer wh selbdodie of, by G.0, Vi Groby, Basch, the original ot Coopers Spy i, 106. 
mcts, ease) - ine of, tia ’ |, the ul 
cnr yl cae eae 
en * 
Convert ot the youd Pelee ro: Lowel, il, Groswall, 4., on Harvard Commencement, 


et eAbimelech, an aecount of, ii. 68. 
Cook, Captain, journal of his last veyage, by Jol: 
Ledyard, i, 325. 
Cooke, Geo. Frederick, acts with J. H. Payne, ii, 142 
Story of, eee Charles Mathews. iam Dun- 


And at Cato's, William Dunlap, 1 543. 
Cooxs, Jous 636. 

Notice of James M'Clurg, i. 285. 
Cooxe, Panrtr P. 


Cooper, Seno) r s contributor to Pietas et Gratula- 
tio, i. 1 

Cooper, Dr. 3., quotes proverbs to John Adams, i. 187. 
‘Coca, Bona Winariaers i 113, : 


Coors, ee nem lent of South Carolina Col- 
i. 

Cooper, William, father of J. Fenimore, ii 108. 

Copy ght Club, address of, by C. Mathews, ti, 640. 
Gar Shoking in South South Carolina, Wm. C. Bryant, 


Cornelia, pe Gracehus, from Gains Gracchus, 
Louisa 8, M’Cord, ii, 252. 

Gave, Sere ee 

Correspondence of the American Revolution, ii, 166. 





Cruger, ly friend of Alexander Hu- 
milton, i. 4 
Calpe fate by T Drake 
, the, 
ivation of Willian ii 670. 
Cumming, John, on, by RM. Charlton, ii. 


435, 
Cummings, Dr., eee eres eee 187. 
psig i! Charles Sprague, ii. 183, 
gale Newburgh Addresses, 


INDEX. 753 
Don Quixote. Ticknor, ii. 983. Dwiant, Totorny, i. 357. 
Double Witness of @ ehureh, the, by W. Z Kip, Gorapanion of Jha Teusaboll, 806. 
nu 5 * 
Doubting Christian drawn to Christ, passage from. Notice of Ethan Allen's Oracle of Man, i 207. 
‘omar Hooker, 1 35. Notice of Samson Occom, i. 151, — 
Douglass, Dr., opposes inoculation, i. 61. Dwight, William, i. 362. 
poe inbares o sina tebllbe as 
5 ti, - 
Drake, Bevsamin, ii 79, Blue Bird, the. Z. iL138, 
Drake, Coanzes D., ii 79. Earthquakes, lecture on, by John hrop, i, 


Drake, Daxnet, ii, 78, 

Daaxe, Josxru Ropaan, ii. 201, ~ 

Drake, J. R, on the death of F. G. Halleck, il. 
210, 

Drake, Nathan, notice of James Ralph, i 103, 
Sanven G. A . 


ry, O67 
Bae ee 
ar, i 
Dramatic pe ae da leroytate bree Ne 


Draper, L . 5 

Draper, Si William, £853, 

Drayton, John, i, 239. 

Davros, Wicuiam Henny, i, 238, A 

Dream, a, of Summer. J. G. Whittier, ii. 473. 

Rees of a Quiet Man, by Theo. 8. 
fay, Hi, 412. 


Docu, Jacon, i. 219. 

Dackworth, Dodimus, by Asa Greene, ii. 470. 

Dadley, Paul, of lectures at Harvard, i. 
iL. 


Dadley, Thomas, notice of, i. 47, 

Duel, the, Sepia Farrago's instructions on, from 
Modern Chivalry, H. Hi Brackenridge, i. 
206 

Dura, Wits Avexanper, i 382. 

Doeowé, Cannes O., id 604. 

Dummer, Jeremiah, donor of books to Yale College, 


i, 86. 
Dunbar, William, i 549. 
Dowcar, Witam, i. 537. 
Account of William Bartram, i 224. 
Letter to. M. M. Noah, it. 74. 
Life of Cooke, home from, i. 536. 
tie of soe See ey ve 
Dunater, Henry, president of Harv: 
Revises Pankma, i, 17. 
Dunton, John, i. 56. 


Durbin, John P., president of Dickinson College, ii. 


61, 
Donrer, Jon, ii. 127, 
Du eee as iL Lae “ih 
arise noted, a 
Dutehinan's Fireside, by’ 3 K. Paulding, &. 4 
Dutton, Henry, i. 90. 
Hee ise t ae 
Dwight, Hem yi 61. 
oe Seren E,i 362. 
ife of Edwards, i, 92. 
Memoirs of Brainerd, i, 148. 
President of Hamilton College, i, 723, 





bee ri Nov. 18, 1755, John Adarns’'s 
i 18K 


East Hampton, sketch J. HL Payne, fi. 14 
Eastavas, James aes, - 


| Eastburn, Manton, controversy with the Chureh of 


Notseah At past, i baat 
Fasnay, Cnautes G,, ii 604. 
Eaton, Nathaniel, first toacher at 


Epwanps, Joxatitay, i, 92. 
Description of Brainerd’s Journal, i. 142. 
Presidency of Princeton, i, 94, 271, 
Pia to a flower, by, 


4655. 
Edwards, Jonathan, Jan., president of Union, ii 194 
Edwards, n, L 95. 


Edwards, t, Ld. 

Edwards, Timothy, i, 92, se geastaa Baad 7 

role darts Brooke, 900. 7 
and its Monuments, by F. L. Hawks, ii 266, ~ 


a ivalry. Zt Hf. Brack- 
Electricity, iklin's writings on, i. 108. 


ay a por ated Hueam, i 520. 


On Aquila Rose, 8. Keimer, i. 100. 


On Prof. John Wit Andrew Oliver, i. 136, 
Eliot, Charles, writings of, ii. 82. 


~ 


Fenavson, Euzanent, i 233, 
Acquaintance with Nathaniel Evans, i. 237, 
Ferguson, Hugh eae 233, 
Ferris, Isaac, Chancel of the University of the 
City of New York, ii. 733, 
Tromss Gueex, 


Remarks i Adams i, 185. 

on 5 

Fiatd Honk of the Reveation, fy Lossing, ii, 

Field Sports of the United States, by H. W. Herbert, 
450. ia 


Fieseo, & by William Elliott, ii. 1 
Filmer, Sir Robert, . 168, ih 
tel bray president of the College of New 

lersey, 
Finley, a 
Finn, Hewny J,, ii, 28, 
Fire Island Ana, 

5 J. R. Lowell, ii. 662. 

Fisher, Alexander M., i. 88. 
Fisher, af early poets of Pennsylvania, i, 101, 116, 


Fishes of N poetical doseription of 
Wilton Wee tt el 


55. 
Fitch, Bleazar T., i, 90. 
Fircn, Exizan, i, 258, 
Fitch, John, his steam. 


mentioned in Exra 
Stiles’s 
‘MSS. of, ds 


i 161. 
in the Philadelphia Library, 
i178. 


Five Indian Nationa, of, by ©. Colden, i. 81, 
Five Years in an Eughsh ‘Gurgenig by G A. 
Bristed, ii, 693. 
Flight of Y he canbe Prentice, ii. 400, 
of Years, the. a 5 
Fill te, and the Oplet “awh Bradiived, 
, the, inne 52. 
Fletcher, Phineas, ae eras 
Florence Vane. P. P. Cooke, ti, 636, 
i Teving, ii. 58. 
Florida, East and wae Bernard Romans, £ 303, 
Florida, evening seene 


Foran, Peren, i. 53. 
Folio, first, of divinity published in America, i 10. 
Fours, ii, 242. 
, Mas. Cuantes, iL 245. 
Folsom, Charles, edits Select Journal of Foreign Po- 
riodical Literature, ii. 82. 
Librarian of the Boston Athenmum, ii, 270. 
r eat, Sete We Lékigflton, 
‘ootateps of An; g 445. 
Forbes, P. J., i. 888. 
Perseus Penk by Soko. 
‘orecastie Yarns, Jol . Gould, ii, 469. 
Forefathe 





755" 
Pos Oe an eae ee 

Hera snug, #2, She boations, Cy eet ara 
Fox, a * 





Remarks on Danie woes Hs sie 
Reminiscences L 
Francis, John W., Jun., ii. 1h 
Feaxacix, Bexsaats, i. 104, 
Attentions from Freneh ladies, 7, 188. 
Ly ort aad Philadelphia Library Company, t. 
Wi. 


ta, 
with 8, Keimer, i, 97-99. 
bea yey 2) 15. 


rat 
iL 

| 

i 


e 
F 


ae 
id 
46 - 
a 
3 


ne 
t 2 
i 
: 
F 


Franklin, James, i 107. 
Remark of John Witherspoon on, i 277. 


Fran! dJosias, i. 104. 
Prk Maa sow are ater ess Prauk- 


Gaeeter, Horace, ii, 549. 
Guees, Asmoen, L 274. 
Funeral address on Rittenhouse, i. 677. 
Notice of Charles Thomson, i, 170. 
James Rivington, i. 283. 
Witherspoon, 1, 276 
— the success of Pame's Common Sense, i. 


Green Mountain Beye, by-D. B ‘Thompson, ii, 216, 

reen Mountain ik 

Gneens, Auoent G. any a6. 

Greene, Asa, 0. 470, 

Greeue, Charles G., 11, 255, 

Greene, Geonce W., ti. 616. 

Gneexe, Natianist. ti. 265. 

Greene, Nathaniel, eulogium on. Alexander Hamil- 

fon, 1. 426, : 

ae fo writings of, by G. W. Greeno, 1, 


Life 7b C. Caldwell, i. 608. 
Greenfield iail, 1, by ees, Dwight, i 958 
Passages from. Timothy 


Dwight, i. 862 
Gaeexnow, wee g fils ti, BLL. 
Greenies, Siton, i 664. 
Garesxovon, Horatio, ii. 417. 
Sremmocyty IL, Memorial of, by H T. Tuckerman, 
533. 


Garexwoon, F W P., ii. 384. 

Gridley, Jeremiah, i, 12, 155. 

Garrrix, Epwunn D., u. 301. 

Griffin, Edmund Dorr, president of Williams Col- 
lege, ti, 155. 

Griffin, George, it 391. 

Griffiths, Dr., i. 668. 

Gninxe, Tuomas Swrru, ii, 84, A 

ed = Diderot's co-respondence, quoted, i. 


Gringos, esd TL A. Wise, ii. 670. 
Gringell Expe ition, by E K. Kane, ii. 698. 
Guiawoun, K. W., ii. 611 
Account of John Sanderson, ii. 45. 
Group, yess by Merey pots i. 168. 
Group, the, passage from Wilham Clifton, i. 


605. 

Guiana, Natural History of, by Edward Bancroft, i. 
228. 

Guild, a A., librarian of Brown University, 1. 


Guillotine ‘Song, attributed to Joel Barlow, 1 399. 
Guthrie's Geography, ti, 165 
Guyot, A, Earth and Man, 1. 464., 


es nae ae interview of J A. Hilthouse, 


Hadad, te a A. Hillhouse, ii, 118. 

ont eas i. th oft 
lumbia, i 584. 

Haze, Sanan J,, i ie. eis 

Hace, Jasces, i 145. 

Hall, Rev. James, sketch of €. Caldiwell, i. 603. 

Hall, John E, ii. 147. 

Hall, Joseph, occasional meditations, i. 60. 

Hate, Lovwa J., ii, $82. 

Hall, Robert, tribate to Jonathan Edwards, i. 95. 

Hall, Sarah, ii. 147. 

Hall, T. M., ii. 147. 

Haxteck, Free Garewe, ii, 207 . 
faebi Sis A RB. Drake, ii, 204. 
Lines on Wm. ©. Bryant, ix 185, 

Lines to James rag heh 118, 

Lines to the M of J R, Drake, fi. 201, 

Poetical allusion 4 F. ebies Ea 110. 

Poetical character of er, i. AS. 
Haliy, e's the astronomer, Sorel ge Colden 


the Royal Society, 


Character of. 2. i. 401, 
Ghaniihea: with Weskitgien's Steen Baan 


fre ipii ene Eade Rasa a , 


‘Yoke of ie. Pape Sed Eamon 
Hamilton, John G., life of A. Hamilton, i. 423. 


| Hoontox Coxteas, ti, 722, 





Cor 
Bevieion MoD in 
Hanniorr, Tuomas, i. 
en ee femora Unive of North 
agen, Teen ee, i. 561 
ma a amin 


Harem, William, © 582. 
Uarvis, William 


‘Account of th hive st 

me Se : itt lwood 
i sarap fo from the Lucky Bag ays 
ee Briggs, fi. 581. 
Hanvarp 
Harvard, John, equaté of, 1 8 
BATA ‘Peter, Daniel Where withty. JE Bh. 
Joux Epscuxp, i. 


Haren: AB, i 581 
ae es president of University of Vermont, 


Main: Hlmabet, it Remain of B. Ladd, i. 
516. 
ie th ee Count Ruim- 


Hasty Lin cel Beri Ce 
Hewctad Paley the, Edgar A. Poe, ii. 539. 


| Havew, Avice B., ti. 682. 


Haven, 8 si atthe Mather Wbrary, i. 305. 

ven, agcount rary, 

‘Account of the origin of the the Massachusetts Com- 
pany, 








INDEX. 759 
Hosace, Dart, i. 874 On the Ascension, from the of Luis 
Gifts to the of New Jersey, i 275. de Leon. rion ae ua 
se aan neaieal aes Bree Joel poral pe 
Medical Instructor of J, W. Francis, ii, 122. ‘Tunes and ‘Win. P, Hawes, ii. 
Hoamer, Titus, i. 891. lg Gods, by Albert Pike, ii, 620, — 
Frossten, W. H. ©., ii. 608, Hymne Win. H. 33a. 


ii Caroline A, Kirkland, i, 665. ‘yparian, by HL. W.!Lougtiliow lilada/= ee 

Hetngut, Barn i tothe Wotwood Library, | Lypociter Hope, tha Hoplite i 208 
L » 7 

Hoaiaah Sarah TE ii ase. “T walk in Dreams of Postry." Careline 

pe eee Sie ee oe Beviearoaril d Blognor Lee, O33. pine Weesad 


504. 
How Leaught a Cat. 8, A. Hammett, ii, O44 “250. i 
How, Samuel B., President of Dickinson College, ii, ta tases ec 


60 rambles in, b Miles, 3, 677, 
Howadji, the, 707. ur beyoads 
Hoo, Junta Wann, ii, 681. = of | Ide, nel, ii, T19. = a Any 
owell, , @ paraphrase Jacob, edits worksof Nathanael Emmons, 
ere Ream & Gly poe Home, + the Vale-of Vesart; by Matty Brock, 
, Raven, ii. 531. or the Vale of 7 : 
Huseano, Winntam, i 66. ii. 200, ; 
Hentehedquteigement oan Ii News from Ne by John Clarke, i 88. 
ena of, 1. 262. ews ew Ais, 
Hudibras, a ontincetion of, on the American Revo- | Illinois, the. Pde Fora: ii, 709, 
Pass with M'Fingal, i 311 it a Se ge 
wi iL . ru. 
Hupsos, Fooner N., fh. 597. Magazine, ii, 146, 
Huggins, the barber, i. 501. Immortality. &. A Dana, ti. 91. 
And Hugh Gaiue, i 385. “ T'm with you once again.” @. P. Morris, ii. 849. 
Hoghes, John, i. 264, eLetters, by . J) Tngersall, a1, 
Letters to, by Kirwan, ii, 352. ia 
Human Species, Exsay on Variety of Complexion Ans\ Timothy Dwight, i. 861. 
and Figure in, by Samuel Stanhope Smith, i, | Incident in a Railroad Car. J ii. 661. 
Humble Bes, the A.W: Emerson, ii. 807. Indecisior Sep er 38) oe 
jee, the. ? G 0, i 
Hume, David, remark on humor, ti, 50. Incomprehensibility of God. liza Townsend, ii. 
Humming Bird, the. Heetor Si. John, i. 175. 126. 
Humorous Porws: Independence Day, Royal iyi: i, 417. 
B es ae eae Joseph Green, i. 121. | Independence, Declaration of, ip, i 240, 
‘lock, the Old. James Naek, ii 578. Indopendent Reflector, the, by Wa. i 
Evening, bya fale. 0. ae hide 162, ee 7 
Father Abbey's Courtship Je Indian Biography, ‘Thatcher, i 
ts. ing eine Geman a visit to. 
Policia Frensh cadtatien tistmleceties | Desh Bog ots Cleat tf Mar iiaabaa 
wicked French and Indien pi were tal a x i 
by the valinut Englishmen. Jf Byles, i 341. ” - 
118. Edueation, i. 151. 
Hard Cider Melody, a Edward Sanford, ii. Education at William and deseribed by 
407. Hugh Jones, by William i. 88. 
Independence ey Royal Tyler, i. 417. Journal of David Brainerd, i. 142. 
Last Leaf, the. ©. W: Holmes, ii. 514. Langunges, by John Pickering, i. 626. 
My Aunt. 0. 1% Holmen, ii. 614, a Languages, structure of, by PeterS, Du Ponceau, 
Old Grimes. Albert G Greene, ii. 308. i. 587, 


Foet’s (Byles), the, lamentation for the loss of his Missions of John Eliot, i. 40. 
Cat, dowph Green, i. 122. Names. L. ii. 197. 
eke ce on lending a 0. W. Holmes, ii. Student, the il i BO 


516. mere Philip i 340, 
Rhyme of the Rail. FG. Saxe, ii. 629. Travels and Researches of Henry R. School- 
= Bonet teeta Pe pees :. craft, ii, 152. r tase 
fumphrey, Heman, Presi Amherst College, ee ee , by Albert Gallatin, 
Hi a Davin, i. 873, Indiana atest oh ot reac, Pree 
fumrntsys, Davin, at 
Humphreys, Heetor, ii, 78, Of New England described. Wot, Wood, i 4, 
Hunt, James, teacher of William Wirt, i. 617. Of North America, ond rs of, 
Hunter, Colonel, i 78. by James Hall and T. I. MeKenney, 1, 147. 
Hoxtixetos, J. V., ii, 610. Provisions for education st Harvard and William 
Hurricane, the. Philip Frewean, i. 843, and Mary, i, 82. 
Hutchinson, Rev. John, edition of his grandfather's | Indolence. Park Benjamin, ii. 500. 
history, i, 181, , Triumph of, poem, passage from. Timothy 
er uae im =a hoa Lentiage Tnfini at the i310 
Letters of, sent 189, infinite, ie 
Hyde, Ann Maria, ii, 1 Legion Coots aT ee 
lymn for Advent. Win Cronmell, ii. 390, - Remarks on J. C. Calhoun, ii. 36, 
e Reapers, Hannah FP. Gould, ii 408. Ingersoll, Edward, ii, 42, 





INDEX. 


we aioe of Sales of the Jago, i. 160 
Tabete to Preiine i, 15) 
Ken low tho end af Lasnta Davidson, ii. 


Kent, William, i, 510. 

Kenyon Ae 

Kerr, David, 

rh ” pactscos cd ARiGanEReT pee: 

L110 
1 tin rameters! | 
Ker, Faanow Soorr, i. 66 
Key ou the Tang of America, by Roger 
of oF Hivaven, b John Cotton, i. 21, 
ope Kien, 658, ef 
jaro, Bi ii, 716. 
Kowatt, Ricuano B., ii. 677. 
gr Service, vomited. LE. M. Davidson, 
King Philip's War, hi of, passages from, Ben- 
nme jamin. Ohurch, 1 188. 
Tse, Sennen i 
King, Mitahell, i, 247. 
pe ebaee nets Boston, history of, by F.W, P. Green- 
wood, ii. 285. 

Kings, on, #zra Stiles, i 101, 
Ki oa ee 

il ezer, i. 389. 
Kuxwer, Humanem C. it. 685. 
Kir, Wat Ixaranas, ii, 551. 


Kmtanp, Canouive M., ii. 502. 
eee 3 John T, president of Harvard, i, 14; ii. 


Kirklant Samuel, the founder of Hamilton College, 
ii. 722. 


Kirwan, Letters to Bishop Hughes, ii, 852, 
Kitchen fireside, a, in the Oki Domiuion. William 
A. Carruthers, ii, 436. 
Kwarr, Francis, i. 72 
Epistle to Mr. B., i 72. 
Poetical address’ to Mr. Pope on his Windsor 
Forest, i 72. 
Kxarr, Samvet L., ii 61. 
Account of John Lathrop, i. 612. 
Aneedote of Joseph Bartlett, i. 506. 
Lectures on American Literature, iL 160. 
garnet = weet i tes sn 
Popularit; e 
Knickerbocker's ry of 3 New ¥ York, ii, 47, 
Knickerbocker Magazine, ii. 476, 635. 
Knight, F., reprint of Washington's letters to Sin- 
elair, i, 180. 
——- Frepvenicn, ii, 159. 
Cooawane, ii, 158. 
Kia the tame Shox by William A. Carru- 


thers, ii. 
avin tie Ds Memoir of Roger Williams, i, 38. 
Kollook, Dr. feo ry, i. 274, 


Koni ‘ke, Tic Eee 
Krout Club, Dr Mitel before the, i 
519. 
eg aoe oe 107, 384, 
enry, it 551, 
Kype, Rulof do, i. 651. 


Tabaree, Benjamin, president of Middlebury College, 
nm 








agnor i 828. 

La Mevhanique Celeste, translated by Nath. 

Laprait, Jolt 308. = 

Lae Rreaing of the Wort J. A. Hilihouse, ii. 119. 

Last Leaf, the 0, W. Holmes, ti. 514. 

Tait of Sip Monies Eee Beas 

Pronk pccsbrted ge eg Nnt ir ss vA 

Last Request, the, B. » ti, 497. 

Lath ish i 61 
op, jun, i 611. 

Lathrop, J iL 6. 

Mra. Daniel, ii. 135. 

Lan Ad Guliclmum Lauderum. Wathe- 
Epllog Me ean pranasante ey Meare 
nega a im, Poems. Thomas 

vane, 
Makin, i. 


Somes, resolutions of Josiah Quincy 
in reference to, i. 610. 


of a Dreamer, by HT 


ees 
Be 

a) 
Fi 


i 
ue 





arena 





Mezoranda ofthe Table Talk ef Thomen Qooper, 
atom ‘ead S., ii 251. 





INDEX. 768 
ior Georg, proton of the Univenity of Vir- | Mebowell Job i a ae 
r A « 
liek: bates ay of, 1 310. " “ ul 
Tong'Sentance, by Rts Choate, i. 287 ia.” . ais. 
ng iy ‘ 7 
Longevity of New land Clergymen, i. 59, 248. M of Samuel i 
Sf Shotts ceege, OTR Tambulft elltooret 306 
Tin a Be ba wo. Sana uA ea all 
©, Felton to, il. 464. 2 MeIntosh, Lachlan, ii. 384. 
Pr 4 Mice OS it Mabie, Mati Hook « 
Remar! one *. Lieber’s Poems, ii, 302, McIntosh, William, - : a 
‘The Two Angels, i. MeKeon, Josoph, first president of Bowdoin, ii 193. 
Lonaretiow, Samet, it Macxetar, 586. 
tong orth, David, ia. Mita’ A. Riso i 340, 
wi et « 
Loomit eee sas phord ‘ioe 112, oe y ie 
135, ft 
Loomis; Hubbel, &. 185, His lifo of Paul Jones quoted, i 108. 
Lorgnette, the, ii. T01 Tn 6 Gis tag pene i 
8 5 é 
Lorin of at New York, ac- | Mackre, Jonx’M., ii, 580, 
Seotol, hee Aan UME Life of Samael Gorton, &. $3. 
Loring, James S., iacdstacr tote Choa ii, 287. | Mackintosh, James, i, 108. 
Orators, quoted, i. 503. Eulogy of Edmund Burke, il, 333. 
Remark on ‘Autograph of Rufus Choate, ii. 236. Tribute to Jonathan Edwards, i. 95, 
Charles ni. 132, Maclean, Professor John, i, 275, 
Sketch of Horace Mann, ii, 225, Maclean, John, president of College of New Jersey, 
Losixa, B. J., ii, 529, i 274, 
Cat Book of the Revolution, quoted, i. 208, | Macteop, ee oe Ne 695. 
Macturn, Wittam, it, 576, 
Lothrop t Tsane, i, 166, Ne charactor of. Thomas H. Benton, 
Lothi John H., ii. 724. ii 44. “ 
Louis XVL, execution of, remark on, by Thomas Mac , William ©, recommenda reprint, of Miss 
x, i, 332. J, MeIntosh's Tales, ii, $85, 
Louisbor arg annguest of by John Maylem, i. 432. McSrannay, Jawns, i 143, 
“Louisiana, Histo yard, il 401 Raucates President Clap, i. 81. 
Historical Collections of, by B, F. French, 1/318 Visite with G, Ber- 
Ponal code of, i 660, i 107. 
Lonisville Journal, ii. 400, M’Vicxar, Jouy, 1, 385. 
Loanger, the, ii 150. EER Ol 
Love, from Essays. R. W. Emerson, ii. 369. Memoir of E, D. Griffin, ii 392, 
Lorein a Ootinge, N. P, Willis, ii, 441, Mad Poet, tho, Clarke, ii, 261. 
Toren i then af the’ Shell Fishes Edward Sanford, neers at of Philip Freneam, i, $27 
ae \e ¢ companion Z 
Se natieeas Fonereil tens, 
Low, fied 583. i, 180, 
Lowen, Jaxres Russert, ii. 659, Ficsgs Sau tia obra 
pase) Sob, sanleibnlar, Eat ies Saacglalos from the eulogy on. J. Q. Adams, 
L 13, 
Lowett, Manta, ii 660. Madiess! James BP) President. of William and 
akg hy 8 ee ON 2S ee eS 
, paper by, on aan con- a 
seers New York Evening Poat, i 180. = Diy re 
ti 110, fagnalin 
ade, Callao, it ki Lae at from. eater 65. 
wick, Christopher, general Revolu- 
— army 200. so, onsen Jd Sprinter 
Lowr, Gronae, ii. 
Lyman, Theodor, it 10, Main Tract” William Leggett ii, S44, 
Lywen, Awe C., ii, 627, Maxts, Tuomas i 68, ° 
Tons afality of Manian Julginent, 3. 108 Newton 
ns's nen ew a 
RY Man giveth up the and where ishel W. B. 
Macaulay, Catharine, corresponds with Merey War- 0. 283. 
ren, L 164. Man in the 
ana aaa his opinion of J. A. Hillhouse, ii. Man in the Reservoir, 0, #: Hojfman, ii, 478. 


E account of the incident, i. 106, 
Mandeville, Dr., ii, 724. 
Mandeville, in iL 10t. 
ii, 294 
Tine of, Franklin, i, 110, 


INDEX, 
Mitxen, Epwann, i. 570. Moone, Jacon B., Juw., ii. 395. ary? 
Miture, Samet, &. 569. Moons, Jouw W., ii. 920, 
Memoir of ©. Nisbet, ii, 59. Moone, Natuanten F,, i. 38) 
Notice of G. Berkeley, i, 165. Sketch of Columbia Co i, 380, 

Ret quoted, i. 528. Moore, Thomas, con’ narrated by N. P, 
i gar cer? Moor Zap rset of Wiliams Calg 
‘s in ‘ 

Visited by Reger Williams, i, 36. ii, 165. 
Meseud behavior of. hog yng era lab Spt ee tow 
Ministry of Cotton Mather, i. Moral Pieces, Loren 
Minor, Gronor R., i. 481, | Moralities, Tense Jefereon. 3 
Mint Julep, the. 0. F Homan, ii. 477. Moravian burial | at Bethelem, lines on. 
Minto, Walter, i. 275. ii, 486. 
Miriam, by Louisa J. Hall, fi, 382. Monerx, Winttase, i 2. 
Coneluding scene of, Lowisa J. Halt, ii. $83. Moreliet, ion of Jefferson's Notes onVirginin, 
Mirror, New York, ii. 347, 430. i, 241, 
Miseelina a Win Promo, id, 287. M Chronicle, edited by Peter ce 52, 
\mles, mh . lorniii miele, a 47, 
By Wi Wan Tudor, ii 26 aban Zophiel 
Missionaries to tas, aweroetiona te Bp. White, i. 20 
Missions terprise, Moral Dignity of, Francis Canrncacen the Miter with S: Wood worth, 2. 
}on ent 
wii ition on ko, by 2M. Pk. Tite ay Jared Bare tk 106, 
|, Oxy a le 
Be mpi from Evangeline, 2. W. Long- | Poetical satire on, 401. 
in i i,” d history of, by ‘T. Flint, | Monse, J i. 492. jenn 
a an of, by T. EDIDIAH, i. 
rat Donation to Yale College Library, i. 91, 
Mitchell, Donald G., ii. 701. Mention of, in Ezra Stiles's Diary, £ 16L 
Mitchell, John, i. 264. Morse, & F. B., iL 733. 
Mercaext, Jouw K., il. 981. Editor of the Pai i 636. 
Mitchell, Jonathan, i. 46, Life of L. M. Davi ii. 485, 
es ee L, i. 517. Monroy, Naruasret, i. 45. 
Diek, by Herman Melville, i 673, Morton, , L483, 
a Bird, the. John J. Audubon, i, 651. Monrtox, Samven Groner, ii 576. 
Mod seat ie tte eel! mea cree ¢ with R. T. Paine, J 
ern hivalry, 201 
Modern ‘ease Be en exemplified by imen of & i. ee — 
collegiate examination, flopkinson, fomrox, Tnoxaa, i, 28, 
i, 213. Morton's Hope, by Joa L + i. 643." 
Mexcos, by i * Whittier, ii. 473. Mosquito, to a, San, ii, 408, 
lére aud eH. ‘Oalnert, ii, 376. Homes GDL RAR ET aE eg bys 


Money, pe on, by J. th i 276. 

Monkey, the. D. 378. 

Monody made on the late Mr, Samuel Patoh, 22. 0. 
Sandseii. 276. 


Monody on the death of Decatur. _ W. Orafts, ii. 86. 

Monstrous relations innewspapers, Fisher Ames, i. 
470, 

Montague, Lady Mary yaar: introduces inocula- 
tion into England, i 6 

Montagues in America, the. "Bliza Leslie, i. 88. 

aes R. W. Bmeraon, ii. 871. 

Mon! Indians, account. of, bs 

Montezuma, death of Win. 

Montezuma’s Way of Life, Win. 

er ee Falls of Montmorenei, by H. J. 

nin, 28. 

Montgomery, widow of General, letter of Meroy 
Warren to, i. 164, 

Month, a, in En |, by H, T. Tuckerman, ii, 683, 

Monthly Antho! , i, 64, 90, 268, 

Monuments, ‘Ancient, of the Mississippi Valley, by 
EG. rien 8 695. 

Moopr, James, 


Moonlight on the Grave. Jane T. Worthington, ii, 
678. 


Moore, Oremenr €., i 
Moors, Hesny E., ii, 820. 
Moone, Hvon, ii. 496. 
Moong, Jacon B., ii $25. 








ti. 70, 
edges 
Mourier of the Last Hope. Wi B.' Waller, i. 284, 
Mowarr, Axwa Cora, ji, 628. 
Muhlenberg, H. a i. 579. 
MA, ii. 258. 


80. 
M » Hannah L., momoirs by Dr. Spring, ii 80. 
Murrey, dot John, publication of W, “Irving works, 


352. 
Anne Bradstreet, i. 48, 
ii, 51h 


INDEX. TOT) 
cmon fom ‘Henry Wheaton, i140. | Ole Bul 2. Af Child, ii, 889. 
Hartt Chee is Lt8, Savin, ii, 254, 
Norton, Willian AG Olive Branch, by Mathew Carey, i 641, ; 
Norton, erate eee ry a 
ANDREWS, ver, Andrew, 

Edits wri of Levi Fish i, 62 Oliver, Peter, a contributor to Pietas et Gratulatio, 
Nor’ West, the b: J. KE. Mitchell, ii, 83%, iia ~ 
Notes of a Desul eaten A. Graydon, i, 853 (Olive, Romans, ocseib ce bo agen Grete 


And Queries, q 
Notions of the Americans, F 


gram on, 
Nort, Hevay Jounws, ii. 258. 
Norr, Joatan ©., ii 677. 
Nottoway Foundation of oe and tha ipa. 
Nova rrr naag poem, specimens of. iHiam Morell, 


Hore ut, by John Adams, i. 
orale roomie ote E. 8. Gould, ii, 


Novellettes of a Traveller, ee ae 253. 
Novela Alerandor Graydon, i. 

Noyes, Nicholas, notice of, i. Sages 

Nun, the, George H. Calvert, ii, 376. 


0 ye keen ae aha se ii, 685. 
Urisn, Harvard, i 8. 
O'Callaghan, pres C., ik 


O'Cataract, Jehu, nom de dina of John Neal, ii. 162, 
Ocoom, Samrsox, i 161. 


Ode for Anniv: 
Society. 

onde pave’. of General Wolfe. Thomas Paine, 

Oe to Forian, fom the Cronk J. R, Drake, 


Olle to Indolence. J. B. Harwood, i, 655. 
Of thine own country sing. W. 2. Wallace, ii. 692. 
oes To the River. 2. Af, Charlton, ii. 435. 


, John D,, i. 385. 
rofessor at Rutgers, i 631. 
Keer University, ii. 77. 
figst ofthe Tearal Mata William 0. Bryant, 
ee ee ee Einma ©. Bury, ii. 
Ob, the Spring bas coals agalay lore J. Law 
rence, Jr., ti, 462. 
Ohio, shores of the. 7: Flint, ii, 26. 
Old L. M. Child, ii. 389. 
re Parker, ii. 687. 


And Death. Sawwel Hi Diekwon, ii 260. 
Recounts the gt ed 


Anne 
Old Bachelor, by William Wirt and rire i, 618. 
Clock, the,” James eho ii, 67) 
Ge ec. Hf rors 





Onaga, hy WO Clr, 


Olumtent’ LG i. 3. 
“Omnium erwin,” essays, by William Biglow, f. 
ty 

On lbs fn Set Our OW iL. 515. 
to a Cricket. Andres Norton, ii, 

On sing Young Git ok pert on a 

from a window of 
peter Serenata Olecke, Bea, 
Ontwa, the Son of the Forest, ii. 280, 


Organ 
Praenied by ODokdey to at Newport, 


Outre Mer, by H. W. Longfellow, ii. 443, 
Owes R., vettlement at Ni npr aio 
wen, ew ¥ 
science at, ii, 161, 676. “ 
‘Hew Ainslie’s trial of, ii 161, 
Panse, Roorrr Treat, Jr, i, 692. 
Ca age La 


Pathfinder, ii, 628. 
Pioneer, ii. 660. 


Sartain’s Magazine, ii. 563. 
Silliman’s Journal, ii, 289, 
Renters hed Gazatte, ii, 429, 
iterary Messenger, ii 638, 
Review, ii 248. 
Lines Companion, i 92 


Magazine, i. 92. 
Yankee, ii, 163, 
Youth's Companion, the, ii. 438. 
Perkins, Alfred E, i. 91. 
Penxixs, James HL, ii, 528, 
Perkins, Tractors, i. 598. 
Persecution, » parable B. Franklin, i. 110. 
Personal Memoirs of H.R. Schoolcraft, ii, 153. 
Peru, history of the Congest of by Willian HL 
the mest ian 
Prescott, ii, 236. 
Peter Funk, Asa Greene, ii, 470. 
Poter Parloy, ii. $12. 
ea se R. M. Bird, ii. 378. 
Peter Se! iemhf in America, by George Wood, ii. 
295. 
Peters, Hugh, i. 190. 
A i passenger of the Folgers to America, 
i 5: 
History of, by Samuel Peters, i. 193. 
feos Se oe 
At Linco! 137. 
Peterson, R. M, i, oo 


Origin and history of, at William and Mary, i 85. 
Linaanr Company or, i. 177. 
Philanthropist te, by ML: Weemg' 466. 
ropist, the, ‘cems, i, 486. 





Phillips, Edward. Mention of Anne Bradstreet in 
Philo, by Sylver dual GOR. oe 
Pulse Golteds. semege from William Lie 


ree betes 


5i 

. by J. W. Miles, 

: pie ee 
Breckenridge, i. 298, 


- ered gett tahoe Sle) 
Physical Geography of the Sen, by MF: Masry, i 


in eee ne Her from. Joseph Bartlett,i. 507. 


Proxenso, Jouy, 1. 625, 
Article on Indian translated by Mrs, 


Pierce, Franklin, appoints Nathaniel Hawthorne 
Consul at Liverpool, ii 
Prenpowt, Jonn, it 72. 
Pierre, by Herman Melville, ii. 678. 
fue , ka 
Sarah, i 9% 
Den, tivchan, 1 7 
et Gratulatio, account of, i 11. 
Pree, Avaeer, ii 520. 
Zewcvox i 660, 
Pilgrims, Journal of the, by G. B. Cheever, ii, 454. 
Leotares on, by G. B. Cheever, ii, 404. 
Vision, the. O. W. He ik, 516. 
Edwin C. Holland, ii, 139. 


eh 


ned Se hee 


ob rg yap age 
ihe sieht Ga ioe 


i 

He 

Peale 

2 ] / i PFR 
Hol 
pita pl 

al fi 
ue Le 


4E 
F 
2 
E 
i 
i 
; 
y 


fi 
ee 
i 


i 
liz 


dos nev ideas on, by At H.Fveret i. 821 
Part Folio, the, i, 669, 603; fi. 80, 147, 





INDEX. 


Pursuits of a Philosopher, from Swallow Barn, Ji 
P. Ke tie 


Humpho 
Indian story, by, f 187. 
Lik hte Reco me, ne 
Putnam, Mra, ii. 659. ‘se te 
sire Tipmeadimamspwigehnnsaer we Ss i, 


Pym, sates tis narrative of, by Edgar A. Poe, 
Pythagoras and Sappho, Samuel Z. Mitehill, i. 520. 


Guin Trek vonage ato 
as 
Gurealy Review, London, article on 
Letters, ii. 2. 


Quince, Peter, i, 634. 
Quince’s, geile to the city. tease Story, i. 
6 


Influence of the Mathers at 


Quod, John, ii. 53. 


. by John Neal, ii. 163. 
by W. Grater 88. 
, W., tie 78, 


Rain inSummer. HW. ii, 446. 
Rainbow, the. Eitiza ii, 125. 
The, essays, by William Wirt, i, 618. 


Rates, James, i 102. 
Dedication to, of a tract, by B, Franklin, i. 108, 
Translation of a L109. 

by John D, Godman, ii, 192. 


Ray, Wieram, i. 609, 

Raynal, Abbé, letter to, by Thomas Paine, i. 199. 
Reap, T. B., ii. 702. 

Reardon, a schoolmaster of Virginia, 1.614. 

oat only Oracle of Man, by Ethan Allen, i 


and 


ii, 180. 
Depiction - of the West, by H. M. Brackénridge, 
87 
Recorder, i 589, 
Rector of St. by F. W, Shelton, ii, 631. 
Red Book, the, P. Kennedy, ii. 219, 
Red Rover, the, by J. F. i 110. 
Redburn, by Herman Mel ii, 673, 
pr artis = 
rs 





rm Margaret Fuller Ossoli, ii, 

Revolutionary Romances, by W. G. Sims, ti, 

Reynolds, o Gate ketenes a 
1. N., i. 673, 

| Theodore 8. Fay, ti. 412. 


Rhode Island, Callender’s Historical Discourse, i, 124, 
Principles ofthe Colony of John Callender, 


Rurter, Gronae, ii. 586. 
“ Rise Columbia,” song by R. T. Paine, Jr., i 633, 





Lines, Governor Dudley, i. 47. 

a ea jum, Somerville, Massachusetts WV. 
tham, ii. 267. 

Midd W. Story, ii. 663. 

tonthe Grave Jane 7) Worthington, 


gland Hymn. ee eae i120. 
Ode, Joseph Green, i, 123. 
Prapraut Chita” Wigley a8 
er a om b 
ln si Bay Psalm Bete Lt 
xvii 


peter 


Of Life. H.W. 
Quest of the Soul, H. 
Reflections, by Roger Williains, i 33. 
Snowfall, The Finst. JR. Lowell, ii, 662, 


School. erga eet dems 
Sunset, a Thomas Cole, ii. 
Tallulah Falls, Georgia, lines on visting Be 
Bulsinch, ii. 600. 
Serres taer mpg at Aa) hah 
dence. John Cotton, 
They are passing wet 3 Mf. Chariton, ii. 


435. 
This sic shall pase away William Cromeelt, ii, 


Thoughts for the City. B. D, Winalow, ii. 612. 

To my honored father ou the loss of his sight, 
John Adams, i. 134. 

Traveller's Hymn, William Croxwell, ii. 397. 

Tread of Time, the, Thomas Cole, ii, 820. 


Trinity, Old. A. C. Coxe, ii. 657. 

True Christina, the. Elijah Fiteh, i. 258, 
Twilight. Thomas Cole, ii. $20. 

Two Angels, the A. W. Lo: ii, 661. 
pet to the Lady Mildimay. Winthrop, 


Village Clergyman, the Timothy Dwight, i. 


364. 
Volunteer’s March, the. f. C. ii 667. 
Wedding Ring, on a veryold. G@ W, Doane, 
iL 290. 
What is the use? Zrastus I. Ellzworth, ii. 711. 
eeead Spirit, a, who can bear? Roger Wol- 
cot, 1. 79. 
Sadi, the Persian poet, i 110. 
Selle, Te Correspondence with Roger Williams, 


Salander rand the D, by F. W, Shelton, ii, 631, 
Salem Witcheraft, i, 61. 
Saumover, ied E,i 90. 


B Irving = Paulding, ii. 47. 
rf fink t of, fi, 980. 


Salmon River, J. G. 'c: Brainard, i 229, 
Salt Box, philosophy of a Francis Hopkinaon, i. 
218. 


Saltonstall, Gov., i. 86. 


Sends ciel C. fet ident of University of 
V7 nit 
Vermont, ii. 130. Ls 
Sanpenson, Jouy, ii. 45. 
‘Saxvorp, Enwanp, ii. 406. 
Sanpa, Roweer C,, ii, 271. 
Testatle fog bra ee by 
Le Micentte 220, 
Sarcest, Eves, ii. 632. 
Memoir of B. Franklin, quoted, i 210, 
Sancznt, Jomy O., i, 682, 





T8 


Stam, Warman 2 

tench Braddock’s Expedition, qnoted, & 
Sousdcla ober, preddoat of Wilians ond Mery, 
Sellen his ener 
Ranya pce seamen Frederick Knight, i, 
Saxe, Jons G,, i, 620, 


ee ee notice of David Hosack, i 


82. 
Scuary, Panay, ii 658, 
Schiller, lectures on, by Charles Pollen, ii, 243. 
Sebi ee the cae ae Oa Pelee eae 
olar, 
Sched Cea 4, aud a Lawsuit 2D. P. 


iL 
gchar ab ine & E eee 401, 


Schoolmaster, the. » Wilem, i. 650, 
Says ie rigpameae Wsaaoe of Union Col- 
Sehuylkl iver, poeta dvrption of by Aquila 
ga je RC. Winthrop, ii. 
Scientific School at Harvard, i. 14. 
Be naeote ot i, 291. 
Heaths Freneau for a 


Simile, L 
prep btsnot seg 


64. 
Sea Bird's Song, the. J. @. C. Brainard, ii, 229. 
ou Crest ate Capt. John Smith, i 6. 
yy dB 


Sea Lions, the, 
Sea Marke, the, a poem. John Smith, i. 7. 


articles Wn. ii, 103. 
Sosa ee 
Hebe 4 ia 
Carnanmvz M, ii a93, 
Smevies Tisobane 0. 
iRDGWICK, 
Sedgwick, Theodore, Jun., ii. 292. 
emoir of W, Livingston, i. 163. 
7. Harber i. 63 . F te 
Selfeulture by W. E *Chanzing, # 22 
Selfish Man's prayer on the prospect of war, St. John 
Honeywood, i. 614. 
Senoca Lake, to. J. G. Percival, ii, 216, 
Senter, i 516. 


fer bol, th cu mh 
Serpent Sym! ae ihe by EG oo 
Settler, the. Necro 


— Lavo, Wino, and aSong, Won. Olig 
From the Quatle in the Air to the Little Corner 
‘of the World, Thomas Paine, i. 205, 
Guillotine 


Song, attributed ‘to Joel Barlow, i. 
iiremats van 
seat teen "award Payne 


ti sanemaies Ramee Wolfe, 


rie ee 


Side, the Hew 


rs FG. 





Marion's Meu, song of 
o C. Pinkney, ii. 341. 

Man iat Bo John Laprath, i. 262. 

Mechanic's Song, B. Franklin, i 115. 

Mother Country, the 2B. Franklin, i 1162 


Music, from Fanny JF @. semen sre 
Mutual Love. Wiceamical Chaplet, 


i plain countey Joan. B. ati 
we aa an ion 
Near the Lake. @. J a; 


Oh the Spring ba has come again, Love. TLaw: 


Old Oaken Buokab the & Woodworth, ii, 72 
pcr the AV Hansington,s aii 


Pict) 0. Pinkney, OH. 
Sead . 

Platonic: anal Song, a. J. @. Percival, ii, 
Pile of the Valle, the S. Woodworth, ii. 
Seu Binds Song, the J. G. 0. Brainard, ii, 


ercusde, ti J. G. Percival, ii. 214, 
St Haare Frances 8, Oagood, ii, 


epherd, the eo oon 


Blaine Seog te the 
L Arnold t 530. 
geal tena @ Q yore i 558. 


Bright 0% ii. 477. 
Stanza 5t. George 
an — FS Ke rag 

sa sence 61 Oa 4 

‘Thomas, i oe: ‘aaa : 
To * * * * FB @ Halleck, ii, 209. 
‘War and W: J M. Sewall, i. 288. 
Nolet Robert i 
or the Revolution. John Neal, i, 163. 

John i, 152. 


‘We Sper ower May. James 
‘When the warrior returns, F. & Aey, i. 663. 


118 
inssss, fates that Tree, PE Morta 


508 
fo Deri taceg Cave mee aoe oe 


Spirit of Song, the. ney, Hi. 685. 
Sr ret 7 A rat 


INDEX. TT 
Sydserfe, Walter, i. 177. ‘Theatre in Masanchnsette, £ 535, y 
Sylphs of the Season, by Allston, it 12. Thelwell, anecdote of, by Thomas ii, 888. 
Splvecter, Joshua, translation of Du:Bartag, 48. Theologia Dogmatica, by F. P. i 816. 
Poam in honor of. Anne Bradstreet, i. 49. besa a was and by 
460. 
Tact 2. W. Emerson, ii. 367. jinn Mirror, ti. 141. 
ELST Dy nrtemutgn |B Sgr Te fi ete 
3 m, 3, f . 583. 5 4 ll. 
‘Talbot, Williams, translates J. Lederer’s Travele, 71, TAD, Witesboe of tlle bevy at Yale, $1 
‘Tales and Sketches by o ite, ii, 280. Thirty Years’ View, by Thomns H. di 44. 
hehe Seng be er ‘ise, ti, 670, ‘This also shall pass away. Win. Crosuell, ii 896, 
Of « Traveller, ‘ashington Lrving, ii, 49. Troms, F. W., ii, 548, 
Talisman, the, ii. 69, 186, 272. ‘Thomas, Isaran, i 802, 
Talk with the Sea. 2 , di, 189, Account of James Rivington, i. 279. 
Tulleyrand, M, visit to Ezra Stiles, 1704, i. 161. Thomas, Nehemiah, ii. 71. $ 
‘Talleyrand's Descent into Hell, passages Tuomrson, Brzasi, L 871. 
tian Cligfton, i. 606. Taowrsox, Dantez Purnoe, ii, 215. 
Talvi (Mra. Edward Robinson), ii 169. Tuomrson, Joun R., ii, 713, 
Nips heh address, passages from. S. LZ. Mit- | Tuomsox, Caanues, i 170. 
T sWiuscim, f,O88. Thompaon, Wed Lome 
“ANWEMILL, WILKINS, ii, ; 
Tarran, Wrruaw B., ii. 380. Ne hadas. 
Tarras, Hewry P., Chancellor of the University of | Thorn Cottage, ii. 160. 
iehi ii, 736. Fornitureof. Frederick Knight, ii. 160. 


Eaivag gi hee he 
and Feathering, notices of, £ 311. 
Of Samuel Peters hinted at, i. 191. 
Poetical remonstrance ogainst, i. 439. 
eer re 
ani i t of, by i iwi. 
Sonnets translated from. | R. H. Wilde, ii. 107. 
Tate and Brady, version of the Psalms, first reprinted. 
in America, i. 18, 
Tarzor, Barann, ii 715. 
edition of Edwards on the Will, i, 95, 


Liberty of Prophesying, i. 110. 
Wel on 


Taylor, Robert, allusion to Virginia, 1612, i 6 
Ten, passage from a poem on. Willian Ireing, ii. 





Tecumseh, H. Colton, ii 658. 
Life “bre Drake, i 79, 


‘Temperance Tales, by L. M. Sargent, fi, 288. 
‘Temple, Charlotte, i Busan Rawat i 502, 
20, 
Ten Eyck, Catharine, lines to, Ann Elie Bleecker, 
i, 967. 


Tennent, Gilbert, notice of, i, 271. 

Tennent, William, account of, i, 270. 
, Tamera, i, 504, 

Tenor, Mr. Old, a Mournful Lamentation for, by Jo- 
seph Green, i, 121. 

Terrible 


riving, a sapphic 


for, passage from. Wil- 
ii, 880. 


J. G. Whittier, ii, 472, 


‘Thornton, William, i 178. 
‘Tnonwwett, Tames le President of South Carolina 
3 


i, 
Thonphteat the Grr of a Departed Friend. Johm 
rave a 
Inman, ii. 416. 


29 
Hours, or the Vigil of Love, a poem, Mra 
au. ii, 127. 


Notice of J. 8. Buekmiuster, ii. 65. 
Notice of Daniel Webster's Dartmouth 


"| Time. Anna Cora Mowatt, ii, 624 


‘Time-Piece, by Philip Freneau, i. 331. 

‘Toro, Hew, ii, 140. 

‘Tranop, Winttaw EL, ii 140, 

Tinker, Nehemiah, it, 19. 

Tis said that Absence conquers Love. F. W, Tho- 


maz, ii, 649. 
in House of Commons, i. 181 
» G. Halleck, ii. 219, 


with Flower. Anne C. Lynch, ii, 628. 
tnd Very Cheorfl Christan Lady. 





An 


: 


638, 
Good Nows Alexander Whitaker, i. 7. 
creas: Travaile into, by William Strachey, 
i. 


bus, by Joel Barlow, i, $91, 
Of is Lunia’ th, J. R. Lowell, ii. 660. 
Of Two Sisters in a Room, poem, William 
Irving, ii. 51. 
Visit from St. Nicholas, Clement C. Moore, i. 


662. 
Voice of the Seatons. Hatharine A. Ware, ii. 266. 
_ Of Years, the, Louisa 8. Af’ Cord, ii. 262. 


Voltaii of and Frankli 
: spabecemy weoteek Oe Won Adams, i. 187. 
A. ©, Coxe, ii, 657. 


Waddel, Moses, ii. 77. 
Waddell, James, the Blind Preacher, i, 614, 619, 
Wadsworth, Benjamin, president of Harvard, i 11. 


Wages, Essay on the Rate of, by Henry C. Carey, ii. 
157. 


Warxwiucer, Joxaraan Maynew, ii 139% 
And Rufus Choate, ii, 287. 
Walden, by H. D. Thoreau, ii, 654. 


Wattace, Witttan Ross, ii 692. 

Waller, Edward, Eulogy on, by Jane Turell, i. 125. 

Wat», Rovrrr, ii. 257. 

Walpole, Horace, notice of Smibert, i 100. 

Watsn, Ronxrr, ii 37. ‘ 
Correspondence with R. G. Harperon Napoleon 

Bonaparte and Russia, i. 633, 
Warrma, Wins B., ii. 283. 
piatien, ts Angler, edited by George W. Bethune, 
403, 


Wants of Man. J, Q. Adams, i. 558. 
War. Charles Sumner, ii. 647. 

Song of the Revolution. JoAhm Neal, ii, 163, 
War and Washin J. M, Sewali, i. 288, 
Ward, George Atkinson, Jonrnal of 8, Ourwen, i. 187, 
‘Wann, Natuanuxt, £ 18. 

Anagram of John Wilson, i. 9. 

Dr. 


Wane, Henny, Ju, ii, 174 

Wane, Jon, ii, 174, 

1 herr Aer ra, Hi, 266. 
‘are, 6. 

Wanx, Wrsuay, fi, 176, 

Warrixtp, Caruxaine, ii, 683. 


ical of. Wheeler 
Prediction of S. Davies in relation to, i. 271. 
the performance of Darby's Return, i, 


Waterhouse, Benjamin, i 528, 
Watertown, deseriptive of, i. 72. 
Watt, J, to Paris with Thomas Cooper, fi 


Wann, Sreruzx, i 129. 
Way to Wenlth, by B. Franklin, i 108, 
Wartanp, Francis, i 525. 





INDEX. 


Wilson, Folin, iii trang tre 
aeaegete 
=p 1 
Wilson, Peter, i. 335. 
Wind Flower, ene Gabe Very, ii. 523, 
ac 
Windham, of, Samuel Peters, i. 192 


Vie Sie Brandon, the. John R. Thomp- 
son, 
Winged Wore! the. Charles Sprague, ii. 184. 


lacs rong oar. ‘eee hats 
Op Sur instruction, # W. P. 


We 
Winthe rep in a Ning BEY LES L296. 
‘erses 
Winthrop F ae: 


Winthrop, John, Governor of Connecticnt, i, 
Mission of, to the Court of Chasles It) by Roger 
Wolcot, i. 79, 
Worrmor, Paor. Jos, i. 135. 
Wormor, Ronenr C., ii. 500, 
Compliment to B. Franklin ns Postmaster, i 110. 
Passage on J. Bowdoin moe ee 
‘Toast in allusion to the seal of Harvard, i. 9. 
‘Wirt, Agoes, i. 619. 
Wu, Winttam, i. 617. 
Compliment to, by Josiah Quincy: 3. 611. 
Lifo of, by J. P. Kennedy, ii. 
Wise, Hever A., ii, 669, 
Remark on H. Melville's Typee, ii. 678. 
Worar, oe i. 577. 
Witchcraft, by Cornelius Mathews, ii. 646. 
Memorable Providenees relating to, by Cotton 
With eae (poe the Juvenilia of J.B. 
er, on the Juv 
Harwood, i. 556. 
Seek eCrhsncet Banca 278, if, 
at ew Sif i. 278, ii, 59. 
Without and Within OF 681. 
Pe een Coe HT. Farmer, ii. 24. 


Wale, Hae (Peter Pindar) Dinner with, William 
Austin, 1, 659, 
Wolcott, Oliver, donation to Yale, i. 91. 
Wolfe, seep 
Geo ings” 
yee the Dew 


Ode on the death of, by Thomas Paine, & 197. 
Ode on the Death of Paine, i. 201 
Pastoral to the Memory of, » 
i 196. 
Wolfert’s Roost, by Wi Irving, il 50, 
Wollaston, Mount, gSvlrome er at, i. a 


Wollaston, William, fT in of Nature, i. 107. 


Wonder-W orkii ‘gaa in 
New Baglin, by del fh Elwael Feel: i 39, 





781 


Pence eae pe See as Oe 
‘Wonders of the Invisible World, by Cotton Mather, 


Controv: with Een Ware, ii. 1 
Woods, Leneardl 6; prediaat Ot bowie, iL 108, 


Woo 1. 
Woolly, remark on, by Charles ID, i, 62. 
Wooumas, Jour, i, 146, 
Chandler, ii. 405. 
te % 88 


We 
Wordsworth, ones TP 700. 
Moeenes Win., influcnce of, on W, C. Bryant, 


World Sale the. Ralph Hoyt, ii. 533. 
Worrnmworoy, Saxe T., fi, 678. 
Wreek Rohe Pollies Nathaniel Deering, i. 


Weighs lr, lim, tS 92, 


Yale, Elihu, i, 86, 
aan 


Yamoytle, roe Sande aod J, W. Zasibarn, il 


Funke Hee by John Neal, ii. 163, 
Doodle, nocount of, i. 463. 
Nake ate president of Sf Witten and Mary, i. 


¥ S. Mackenzie, ii, 361. 
Yolo i aoe of 368, 1758, i, 181, 
4 core David Byorett, i. 568, 


character of, by 'T, Jefferson, i, 289. 


Yusef, by J: Rows Browne, ik 651. 


Zara, prologue to. Sestret Rerrenss 2 AT. 

Paragon A. 8. Mackenzie, ii. 

Zeno! in, by Wiliam Ware, i. 176 
William Ware, ii. 171. 


Zeuma, by James Ral, 
sear Pte 
Zophiel, by i, 108, 


COMPLETE LIST 


or 


CHARLES SCRIBNER’ 


PUBLICATIONS. 





4 LIBERAL DISOOUNT MADB TO BOOKSELLERS—A‘ 
4 NUMBER OF BOOKE—SPECIAL DISCOUNT MADS TO LIBRARIES. 


s 


, AND TO ANY ONE ORDERING 


Any Book in this List will be sent by Mail, Postrace Par, on Receipt of Price 
Aypended, A Descriptive Catalogue will be sent to any Address on Application. 


Alexander, Rev. A.— Outlines of Moral Science. 1vol,12mo. . -% 75 


Alexander, Rev. J. A—The Psalms. aremaisted and Heplamned. 3 Sty 
12 . . . . 
in Balt calf, Po s. 
Alexander, Rev. Jas. W.—Life of Archibald Alexander, D.D, 1 vel, Bros 
loth, 2 . 
it, and “half oalf, $8 00; Morocco, $5 00 
ilsor a a New Edition, 1 vol., large 12mo. Price reduced to. 
__ Consolation ; in Discourses on Select ‘Topica, pdaremet: to 
the Suffering People of God, 1 fol, 8Y0, cloth,. . 
Pull gilt or half calf, 98 005 Morooce, extra, 
Also, a New Edition, 1 vol., Tomo. Price reduced to. . 
Arthur, T. S.—(Mew Series.) Sparing to Spend ; oy te Zens a and the 
Pinkertons. 1 vol., 16mo., . 


_— The Old Man’s Bride. 1 vol, 1émo,, i e . 
—— Areart Histories and Life Pictures. 1 vol., 16mo, be | 
— Home Lights and Shadows. 1 vol., 16mo., S és ‘ 


Barry, P.—The Fruit Garden. Illustrated with 150 figures, representing 
the different parts of Trees, all Practical Operations, Forms of Trees 
Designs for Plantations, Implements, &c., 1 vol. 12mo., 2 % 


Beach, Dr. W —The American Practice of Medicine. Being a Practical Ex- 
ition of Pathology, Therapeutics, Surgery, Materia Medica and 
Pharmacy, on Reformed Principles: Embracing the most Useful 
Portions of the former work, with Corrections, Additions, New 
Remedies, and Improvements; Ilustrated by 800 p colored engray- 

ings, in 3 volumes, royal octavo,. . . . 8 


3 75 


2 50 
1 25 


2 00 
1 25 


75 
15 
15 
15 


1 28 


- 20 00 


Charles Scribner's Publications, 


B Dr. W.—An Improved System HEP to the Re- 
“aia: pike Practice of Medicine. ee te ancl ie added, Com 
of the Treatment of Female and Infantile Diseases ; with 


on Physiol and Moral Elevation, ie y 80 ort 
plates. 1 vol., 8vo., . ‘ . . 
—— Anatomy, Physiology and Health. 1 vals sive 25 ‘oli ri 
—— Medical and Botanical Dictionary, 1 vol. 8v0,. . + 
Bourne, Wm, O.—@olden Link, A Collection bal a meiotic 
Young. 1 vol., 16mo, illustrated, . ' 
—_ Silverstring ; or, Tales and Poems for the Fount: Tlustrated 
with elegant tinted engravings. 1 vol, 16mo., cloth, . + = + 
Brace, C. L.—Home Life in Germany. Embracing a Picture of the Social 
Life, Conversations, Modes rabies orgs rile of aie ms 
of the Germans, 1 vol., 12mo., . 
—— Hungary in 1851, With sn Expense of the Austrian 
Police. 1 yol,,12mo,, cloth, . e 


Balin, P-—Einanao th Cro nd inh Gorden L ray 1200, 


ol . . . . . 


Burkhardt, OC, B—Fuiry Tales and Legends of Many Nations, Selected ded 
Newly Told. With Original Designs and Illustrations. 1 vol,, 
12mo., cloth, . . . . . . . . . . 

Colored plates, $1 25. 


Cameron, Archibald.—His Heart Trials, l vol, 12mo, . . ‘ ‘ 


Campbell, Hon, Wm. W.—The ad and Welton ta: Witt Clinton. 
l vol, 12mo,, cloth, . 
—— Life. of Robin Hood and Caplain Kidd, ‘An Historical 
Account of these Noted Characters, 1 vol, 12mo., cloth, . . 
—_— The Border dev Neate rh Rigeccnmedt dio 
County. 1 vol,, 12mo, cloth, . 


Canon, Rev. i ect: Ticliree Gi Pasta Pind 1 vol., 8vo, . 


Caaapety Rie ae a Voices of Nelues to Her Pome Chia ie ae 
Man, A Series of Pete on npn ie 
tual World. 1 vol. 12mo,, cloth, —. 


—_— A Vi to the Celestial Country, Being the Resl in a 
Bottle, from uscripts eee Old Balls An Allegory, detly 


Cheever, Rev, H. T.—Memorials of “the Life and. Trials of @ Youthful 
Christian, in Pursuit of Health, as Developed in the Biography 
of Nathaniel Cheever, M.D, 1 vol,, 12mo,, cloth, 5 p, 

Cormenin——-The Orators of France. Civil, Revolutionary, and Mittar. 
From the 16th Paris edition, Edited by George H. Colton, ue 
an Essay on the Rise and Progress of French Parliamen 
Eloquence, by J. T. Headley. 1 yol,, ci seth or sheep 
Illustrated with portraits, .  . 


12mo., cloth, . + ie ie ‘ae? i ea & 


pa set lvol., 12mo. eloth, . . . F; 





Charles Sorilner’s Publications ? 
Flagg, Edmund.— Venice, the City of the Sea. From the Invasion of Ne 14 
leon, in 1797, to the Capitulation to Radetaky in 1849, — a * 
Contem ueous View Geile Yl ey ly ih Z 
map Tengravings, 2 60 
George, Anita—Lives of the Genin Heals ‘Siceiiaac. iaialies “a BS: 
Hall, Rev. nny eee, See Meee 1 vol. 
12mo. cloth, a « 100 
Frank Foeman i karier si A. Tale tr the South sod 
North, 1 vol. 12mo, cloth. Ill fiona 2 1 00 
Hall, Rev. se paige saehan tes alge dices 3. Tvl ere date. 2 50 
- in Exposition of the Law of Baptism, as it regards the 
Mode aa the Subjects. = sion Rag ae — | 
1 vol, 12mo., cloth, . * 16 
Harsha, D. A.—The The wail sina” Orelara “ancient and Modern Times : 
Containing Sketches of their Lives, Specimens of their Big nag 
and an Estimate of their Genius. 1 vol., 8vo. With Portrait, . 2 25 
Headley, J. T.— Washington and his Generals. 2 vols, 12mo., cloth, « 2.50 
——_, Napoleon and his Marshals, voley 12m0 clothe hue 








trated with 12 portraits, . : 2 50 
—— _—s The Sacred Mountains, Illustrated with 12 ra 
Burt, with designs b nt an 1 vol. 12mo.,, cloth, . : by 125 
Do. do., full gilt, $f 75; 50; morocco, extra, $3 50, 


—— Sacred Scenes and princi 1 vol., 12mo., cloth, with 











12 illustrations by Darle Darien ene err ee. 
Do, do., 1 yol., 8r0., clot il, $5 00; morocco, #8 60. 
— Laltera from Taly and Alps and the Bias 1 vol., 12mo,, { 
cloth. A new edition, revised and enlarged, with» portrait ofthe ! 
author a 113 
— Adirondack ; pee in the Woods, With ‘Ori Design 
from Gignoux, Ingham, wand, &e. 1 vol., ith Origin 125 
—. ered en Noeete pai Hana ape sil with por 
trait, ‘ 1 25 
History of the Second War with England. 2 vole, 1200, 

cloth, with 10 engravings, . . 2 50 
The Old Guard oF Ronobsom eon Morengo to Water 

1 vol. 12mo., cloth, with 10 Engravings, . 125 

—— ___ Lives of Wingield Scott and Andrew Jacke. 1 vol 12m0, nee 
with portraits, . > - = 

—— = Miseellanies, 1 vol., 120, hen & « . <eias i 00 

—— Skeiches and Rambles. 1 vol., -. 15 

Herbert, Hen. W.— American Game in its Seasons. 1 vo ioe, lt 
with 12 superb engravings, 5 1 25 

The Captains of th Roman Rope. 1 vay 12m, ot, 
illustrated, . 15 


— The Captains of the ola World, Their Dastaiaes Ghaiee: 
ter, and Conduct, as compared with the great Modem Strategists. 
1 vol., 12mo., with 5 original engravings, « 5 7 - we Be 
Hooker, D. W.—Physician and Patient ; or, a Practical View the 
Mutual Duties, Relations, and Interests of the Medical Pr. 
and the Community. 1 vol., 12mo., cloth, an. ce hen oe 





Charles Scribner's Publications. 


Mason, Rev, Dr. Erskine—A Pastor's Legacy. Sermons on Practical 
Subjects. With a brief Memoir of eos by Rev. Wm. 
Adams, D.D. 1 vol. 8vo, with # portrait, . . .  « 
Maxwell, J. S.-—The Czar, his Court and People. Including a Tour in 
ag and Sweden. A new and nme siecle 1 vol,, 12mo., 
Mitchell, Prof. 0. M—The Pl ad Stellar Worlds. A Popular 
Exposition of the Great Discoveries and Theories of Modern 
Astronomy. Ina Series of Ten Lectures, In 1 vol., 12mo., cloth, 
March, C. W.—Daniel Webster Sra his psig 1 vol., 12mo., 
with portrait, . ay & i aghs  uaeks 
Macleod Donald.—Life balls. Walter Scott. 1 rl Tsai, aos with 
portrait, 
— The Ter and the Alps; or, Pyanaburt and hi Wonder 
ings. 1 vol., 12ino, cloth 
The Bloodstone, 1 vol., Igeuy aa a, * ng! es 


Morris, George P.—Poetical Works, complete, With thirteen superb engrav~ 
ings, from original designs by Weir and Darley, and a porenlioe? 
the Author, by the late Henry Inman. Elegantly printed on fine 
vellum paper. 1 vol., 8vo., cloth, full gilt, ~ =. + «© «+ 
Morocoo, extra, 87. 
Magoon, E. L.—The Orators of the American oar ‘1 vol., es 
cloth or sheep, with 6 portraits, aa: 
The Living Orators in America, 1 rte 12m, cloth or 
sheep, with 6 fine portraits, . . q “ . . 


More, Margaretta—Zhe Household of Sir Thomas More. 1 vol., 18mo., 


Macdonald, Rev. Dr. J. M—The Coming of the Lord. A Key to the Book 
of Revelation. With an Appendix, 1 vol., 12mo., cloth, 
My Father's House ; “i the Heaven of the Bible. 1 vol., 
12mo, . . . . . . 
Do. daw cloth, full wrist 1. 
McConnell, J. Jeans and Vernon, A Novel. 1 vol., 12mo., cloth, 
cents. 

— _ The Glenns. A Family History, 1 vol,, 12mo., cloth, . 
Paper, 60 cents, 

—— Grahame ; or, Youth and Manhood. 1 vol.12mo. cloth . 
Paper, 60 cents. 


Myrtle Minnie—Myrtle Wreath ; or, Stray Leaves Recalled. 1 vol., 12mo., 


Newcomb, Rev. H.— Cyclopedia of Missions, 1 vol. octavo, double 
- columns, 700 p. ap rere a Conemenes View of all 

the alse 4 tions in the World, with Geographical 

riptions, Condition of the Unevangelized, &e.; together with 

the Rel io Movements of the Age; under Alphabetical Arrange- 

ment. Hustrated with an original frontispiece frum Rev. xx. vies, 











and thirty missionary maps, . 5 5 «© + 
Het for Children. Translated from the German, by Mrs. H. C. 
AL. 


——_ The Little Drummer ; or, Filial Affection, gis fe 
Russian Campaign. 1 vol. 16mo., cloth, illustrated, . 


1 


25 
76 


Charles Scribner's Publications. 


Schaff, _~ Dr Sin ih a onl of the Apostolic 
ith a General Introduction Fpl phy eed Sr Trans- 
the Rev. Edward D. Yeomans. 1 vol. 8vo., pages, . 


700 
were pdb nea Rant te ae sari 





NE ois Pee ee oe 
Saxton, L.C—The Fall of Poland, Containii lytical and a 
Philosophical Account of the Causes whi AT eine Hcte 
of that Nation; togetier wth alison the ntry from its 
pres 2. vole, 1210, cloth, + - rs : 


Sim Was nC or the and the Totem. 
rae 1 vol., 12mo., cl a = 
Street, Alfred.—J’rontenac, the of the x orm A. Motta 
Romance. resi teageee igh ee F 
Stn HBS of rm nd Bere of ret Brin end 
Ireland. 1 yol.,12mo, cloth, .  . 


Tyler, ee Discourse on the Baconian Phitosophy. 1 ms 1200, 


"Burns; ava Post andias.a Man. 1 vols 12mo, * , 


Shelton, Rev. F. Wi— Peeps from a Baty; bi a ag salen 
1 vol., 12mo., cloth, . . 
Crystalline ; or, the Heiress of “Fall Down Caste 1 del 
12mo,, cloth, with original illustrations from desigus by Billings, . 
—-- islet aris a Le en eenen Bae eps 
ings from original designs, . . 
— The Rector of St. Bardo 5 or, Superanated 1 vay 
12mo,, cloth, . 
Tupper, M. F.—Proverbial Philosophy. ew eiton, with 4 orga 


illustrations. 1 vol., 8vo., morocco, 
Cloth, full gilt, $2 60; cloth, plain, $1 75. 


Taylor, Geo—Jndications of the Creator ; or, the Natural pms o 
Final Causes. 1'vol., 12moy cloth, oe eT Ae 

Tuthill, Mrs, L. O.—Tip-Top; or, a Noble Aim. 1 vol. 16mo, eloth, 

eens ARR, Os hope oe 1 vol, iter 
— "Beautiful Bertha. 1 vol, 16mo, cloth, illustrated, ° 
—— Queer Bonnets. A Book for Girl. lvol,16mo, . ~ 

Joy and Care. A Book for Young Mothers. 1 yol., 16mo., 

Van Santvoord, Geo.—Lives of the Chief Justices ined United States. 
1 vol., 8vo., cloth, with portrait,. 

Life of Algernon Sidney. With Sketches of some of his Con- 
temporaries, and Extracts from i Camsanceaats Ja Koen! 
Writings. 1 yol., 12mo., cloth, with portrait, P ‘ 

yo Do Ree eee Maree A Book for Young Mera 
1 vol, 16mo,, cloth, . . . 














100 


88 


1 26 


1 00 


3 00 


1 00 
63 








AViiwas 


- 


SCRIBNER’S. 
Latest Publications. 


LIFE OF SEARGENT 8. PRENTISS. 
EDITED BY HIS BROTHER. @roln 18m0. $9 00. 


ha iie—tore of etote of fing shih rei earn uray 


were convivial; he was ® sigh Buagute De of fem abt’ abecdsle, and no. de ‘ater extended his is 
MY FATHER’S HOUSE; 


hatter ah elem: Pa gh Sac ibe Lyol. 12m0. $1 25. 


AMERICA. 
THE POLITICAL, SOCIAL, AND RELIGIOUS CHARACTER OF THE UNITED STATES. 
HY ARY, P. SCHAPY, DD. Author of “ History of Apostolic Church.” 1 vol. Imo. @1. 
“The work Is replete with Information, and gives a miniature picture of United States that mast be of 
European ignorance of this "—Neo York 
wrth Valuable addkion to the reigious and politica’ Hterature of We toes. Dally Sate of Matna, 


Ad. to American Climate and Wants. By Grrvase Architect, Author of “Raral Homes," ee. 
1 vol. With 100 Engravings. $1 50, Py Avg 

This work bs to ‘& want that, In the opinion of the publisher, bas not as yet been fully met. ka ape | 
have been present models for home builders, but they have Soe J 
aketches of men of literary and artistic talent rather than of practical 

In the present rolame got the stored bints of a Jong and successful, of 
iteuet sod examination. elucidating his have had the cat of Pel and of 

101 on. 

In its pages the realer wilt Gnd an amoant o| red by i ple tag th an ou he Con 

plans, examples of every class of house required people 

structed cottage of six or seven hundred dollars tia neouion ee irty thousand. 


AN IMPORTANT NATIONAL WORK. 
CYOLOPEDIA OF AMERIOAN LITERATURE: 
ig Personal and critical notices of Authors, aad sAlesiloas from fom carlton period 
pl Ta fete i La L, Duyckinek. yan io 25h 40 ate 


ror vapeltecgn st 


LIFE OF ARCHIBALD ALEXANDER, D.D. 
BY REV. JAMES W. ALEXANDER, D.D. 1 vol. large, 12mo. §1 25. 
De iy vee 


LIVES ‘OF THE B THE DRITISH HISTORIANS. 


BY EUGENE LAWRENOR, 2 vols. Imo, $2 50. 


notloed that there account In the ey tired of the British en T have been 
led to ihe following sketches of these eminent men. tines odie} rare tten ten the best 
sources, “itn the hope of reealng te memory fm clas of grunt writers Dave aa yes wanted @ blog 


THE DAY-STAR OF AMERICAN FREEDOM; 
OR, THE MIRTH AND EARLY GROWTH OF TOLERATION IX THE PROVINCE OF MARYLAND. 
tied see ar pata Carat ra removal of the Gow 


Literty. By Goo. ai si eeimeend meneere oti ‘of Baltimore. "2 
THE SKEPTICAL ERA IN : MODERN HISTORY ; 
OR, THE INFIDELITY OF THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY. 


the future cs Rev. T, M. Post, 
2D. Tat ioe al oan et Sen destiny Sock, By 




















OcT 19 1987 


STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES | 
STANFORD, CALIFORNIA 94305 











