iiiiiiiiiiiiSiliiiiililii!:: 


;i!i!iii!iHiiie!!i;ii:  ^:i:i!iiiiiiiiisiiii 


!■ 


Boston 

Medical  Library 

8  The  Fenway 


/ 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2010  with  funding  from 

Open  Knowledge  Commons  and  Harvard  Medical  School 


http://www.archive.org/details/degeneration1895nord 


DEGENERATION 


DEGENERATION 


BY 


e^- 


MAX    NORDAU 


Translated  from  the  Second  Edition  of  the 
German  Work 


FIfTH  EDITION 


NEW    YORK 

D.    APPLETON    AND    COMPANY 

1895 


Copyright,  1895, 
By   D.  APPLETON   AND   COMPANY. 


DEDICATED    TO 

CvESAR    LOMBROSO 

PROFESSOR   OF   PSYCHIATRY   AND   FORENSIC    MEDICINE 
AT   THE   ROYAL   UNIVERSITY   OF   TURIN. 

BY   THE   AUTHOR 


TO 

PROFESSOR   CESAR   LOMBROSO. 

TURIN. 


Dear  and  honoured  Master, 

I  dedicate  this  book  to  yo7i,  in  open  and  joyful  recognition 
of  the  fact  that  without  your  labours  it  could  never  have  been 
written. 

The  notion  of  degeneracy,  first  introduced  into  science  by  Morel, 
and  developed  with  so  much  genius  by  yourself,  has  in  your  hands 
already  shown  itself  extremely  fertile  in  the  most  diverse  direc- 
tions. On  7iumerous  obscure  points  of  psychiatry,  criminal  lazv, 
politics,  and  sociology,  you  have  poured  a  veritable  flood  of  light, 
which  those  alone  have  not  perceived  who  obdurately  close  their 
eyes,  or  who  are  too  short-sighted  to  derive  benefit  from  a^iy  en- 
lightenme7it  whatsoever. 

But  there  is  a  vast  and  vnportant  domain  into  which  neither 
you  nor  your  disciples  have  hitherto  borne  the  torch  of  your  method 
— the  domain  of  art  and  literature. 

Degenerates  are  not  always  criminals,,  prostitutes,  aftarchists, 
and  pronounced  lunatics ;  they  are  often  authors  and  artists. 
These,  however,  manifest  the  same  mental  characteristics,  and  for 
the  most  part  the  same  somatic  features,  as  the  members  of  the 
above-mentioned  anthropological  family,  who  satisfy  their  un- 
healthy impulses  with  the  knife  of  the  assassijt  or  the  bomb  of  the 
dynamiter,  instead  of  with  pen  and  pencil. 

Some  among  these  degenerates  in  literature,  music,  and  painting 
have  in  recent  years  come  into  extraordinary  prominence,  and  are 


viii  DEDICATION 

revered  by  numerous  admirers  as  creators  of  a  new  art,  and 
heralds  of  the  coming  centuries. 

This  phenomenon  is  not  to  be  disregarded.  Books  and  works  of 
art  exercise  a  pozverful  suggestion  on  the  masses.  It  is  from  these 
productions  that  an  age  derives  its  ideals  of  morality  and  beauty. 
If  they  are  absurd  and  anti-social,  they  exert  a  disturbing  and 
corrupting  influence  on  the  views  of  a  zvhole  generation.  Hence 
the  latter,  especially  the  impressionable  youth,  easily  excited  to 
entliusiasm  for  all  that  is  strange  and  seemingly  new,  must  be 
warned  and  enlightened  as  to  the  real  nature  of  the  creations  so 
blindly  admired.  This  warning  the  ordinary  critic  does  not  give. 
Exclusively  literary  and  cEsthetic  culture  is,  moreover,  the  worst 
preparation  conceivable  for  a  true  knowledge  of  the  pathological 
character  of  the  works  of  degenerates.  The  verbose  rhetorician 
exposes  with  more  or  less  grace,  or  cleverness,  the  subjective  im- 
pressions received  from  the  works  he  criticises,  but  is  incapable  of 
judging  if  these  works  are  the  productions  of  a  shattered  brain, 
and  also  the  nature  of  the  mental  disturba^ice  expressing  itself  by 
them. 

Now  I  have  undertaken  the  zvork  of  itivestigating  (as  much  as 
possible  after  your  method^  the  tendencies  of  the  fashions  in  art 
and  literature ;  of  proving  that  they  have  their  source  hi  the  de- 
generacy of  their  authors,  and  that  the  enthusiasm  of  their  ad- 
mirers is  for  manifestations  of  more  or  less  pronounced  moral 
insanity,  imbecility,  and  dementia. 

Thus,  this  book  is  an  attempt  at  a  really  scientific  criticism, 
which  does  not  base  its  judgment  of  a  book  upon  the  purely  acci- 
dental, capricious,  and  variable  emotions  it  awakens — emotions 
depending  on  the  temperament  and  mood  of  the  individual  reader 
— but  upon  the  psycho-physiological  elements  from  which  it  sprang. 
At  the  same  time  it  ventures  to  fill  a  void  still  existing  in  your 
pozverful  system. 

I  have  no  doubt  as  to  the  consequences  to  myself  of  my  initiative. 
There  is  at  the  present  day  no  danger  in  attacking  the  Church,  for 
it  no  longer  has  the  stake  at  its  disposal.  To  write  against  rulers 
and  governments  is  likeivise  nothing  venturesome,  for  at  the  zvorst 
nothing  more  than  imprisonment  could  follozv,  zvitJi  compensating 
glory  of  martyrdom.  But  grievous  is  the  fate  of  him  zvho  has  the 
audacity  to  characterise  cesthctic  fashions  as  forms  of  mental  decay. 


DEDICATION  ix 

The  author  or  artist  attacked  never  pardons  a  matt  for  recognising 
in  him  a  lunatic  or  a  charlatan  ;  the  subjectively  garrulous  critics 
are  furious  tvhen  it  is  pointed  out  how  shallow  and  incompetent 
they  arCy  or  how  cowardly  when  swimming  with  the  stream  ;  and 
even  the  public  is  aiigered  when  forced  to  see  that  it  has  been  run- 
ning after  fools,  quack  dentists,  and  mountebanks,  as  so  many 
prophets.  Now,  the  graphomaniacs  and  their  critical  body-guard 
dominate  nearly  the  e^itire  press,  and  in  the  latter  possess  an  in- 
strument of  torture  by  ivhich,  i?i  Indian  fashion,  they  can  rack  the 
troublesome  spoiler  of  sport,  to  his  life's  end. 

The  danger,  however,  to  which  he  exposes  himself  cannot  deter 
a  man  from  doing  that  wJiich  he  regards  as  his  duty.  When  a 
scientific  truth  has  been  discovered,  he  owes  it  to  humanity,  and 
has  no  right  to  ivithJiold  it.  Moreover,  it  is  as  little  possible  to  do 
this  as  for  a  woman  voluntarily  to  prevent  the  birth  of  the  mature 
fruit  of  her  womb. 

Without  aspiring  to  the  most  distant  comparisoji  of  myself  zvith 
you,  one  of  the  loftiest  mental  phenomena  of  the  century,  I  may  yet 
take  for  my  example  the  smiliiig  serenity  zvith  zvhich  you  pursue 
your  own  way,  indifferent  to  ingratitude,  insult,  and  misunder- 
standing. 

Pray  remain,  dear  and  honoured  master,-  ever  favourably  dis- 
posed towards  your  gratefully  devoted 

Max  Nordau. 


CONTENTS. 

BOOK    I. 

FIN-DE-SIECLE. 


CHAPTER   I. 
The  Dusk  of  the  Nations    - 


The  Symptoms 


Diagnosis 


CHAPTER    11. 


CHAPTER    HI. 


CHAPTER    IV. 


PAGE 

I 


Etiology 


15 


34 


BOOK    II. 

MYSTICISM. 

CHAPTER   I. 

The  Psychology  of  Mysticism 


CHAPTER    II. 


The  Pre-Raphaelites 


45 


67 


CONTENTS 


CHAPTER    III. 

PAGE 

Symbolism  _.-----     loo 


CHAPTER   IV. 

TOLSTOISM  -------       144 

CHAPTER   V. 
The  Richard  Wagner  Cult  -  .  -  .     171 

CHAPTER   VI. 
Parodies  of  Mysticism  -----     214 


BOOK    III. 

EGO-MANIA. 

CHAPTER    I. 
The  Psychology  of  Ego-mania        -  -  -  -     241 

CHAPTER    II. 
Parnassians  and  Diabolists  -  .  .  -     266 

CHAPTER    III. 
Decadents  and  Esthetes     -----     296 

CHAPTER   IV. 

IbSENISM  .------      338 

CHAPTER   V. 
Friedrich  Nietzsche  ------    415 


CONTENTS 

BOOK    IV. 

REALISM. 

CHAPTER   I. 
Zola  and  his  School  ------     473 


PAGE 


CHAPTER    II. 

The  'Young  German'  Plagiarists-  ...     ^06 

BOOK    V. 

THE   TWENTIETH  CENTURY. 

CHAPTER   I. 
Prognosis  .-.-...     ^36 

CHAPTER    II. 

Therapeutics    -  -  -  -  -  -  -     5  So 


DEGENERATION 

BOOK    I. 

FIN-DE-SIECLE. 

CHAPTER  I. 

THE    DUSK   OF   THE    NATIONS. 

FiN-DE-sifecLE  is  a  name  covering  both  what  is  character- 
istic of  many  modern  phenomena,  and  also  the  underlying 
mood  which  in  them  finds  expression.  Experience  has  long 
shown  that  an  idea  usually  derives  its  designation  from  the 
language  of  the  nation  which  first  formed  it.  This,  indeed,  is  a 
law  of  constant  application  when  historians  of  manners  and 
customs  inquire  into  language,  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining 
some  notion,  through  the  origins  of  some  verbal  root,  respect- 
ing the  home  of  the  earliest  inventions  and  the  line  of  evolution 
in  different  human  races.  Fin-de-siecle  is  French,  for  it  was 
in  France  that  the  mental  state  so  entitled  was  first  consciously 
realized.  The  word  has  flown  from  one  hemisphere  to  the 
other,  and  found  its  way  into  all  civilized  languages.  A  proof 
this  that  the  need  of  it  existed.  The  fin~de-siecle  state  of 
mind  is  to-day  everywhere  to  be  met  with  ;  nevertheless,  it  is 
in  many  cases  a  mere  imitation  of  a  foreign  fashion  gaining 
vogue,  and  not  an  organic  evolution.  It. is  in  the  land  of  its 
birth  that  it  appears  in  its  most  genuine  form,  and  Paris  is  the 
right  place  in  which  to  observe  its  manifold  expressions. 

No  proof  is  needed  of  the  extreme  silliness  of  the  term. 
Only  the  brain  of  a  child  or  of  a  savage  could  form  the  clumsy 
idea  that  the  century  is  a  kind  of  living  being,  born  like  a  beast 
or  a  man,  passing  through  all  the  stages  of  existence,  gradually 
ageing  and  declining  after  blooming  childhood,  joyous  youth, 
and  vigorous  maturity,  to  die  with  the  expiration  of  the 
hundredth  year,  after  being  afflicted  in  its  last  decade  with  all 
the  infirmities  of  mournful  senihty.  Such  a  childish  anthropo- 
morphism or  zoomorphism  never  stops  to  consider  that  the 
I 


2  DEGENERATION 

arbitrary  division  of  time,  rolling  ever  continuously  along,  is 
not  identical  amongst  all  civilized  beings,  and  that  while  this 
nineteenth  century  of  Christendom  is  held  to  be  a  creature 
reeling  to  its  death  presumptively  in  dire  exhaustion,  the  four- 
teenth century  of  the  Mahommedan  v\^orld  is  tripping  along  in 
the  baby-shoes  of  its  first  decade,  and  the  fiftieth  century  of 
the  Jews  strides  gallantly  by  in  the  full  maturity  of  its  fifty- 
second  year.  Every  day  on  our  globe  130,000  human  beings 
are  born,  for  whom  the  world  begins  with  this  same  day,  and 
the  young  citizen  of  the  world  is  neither  feebler  nor  fresher  for 
leaping  into  life  in  the  midst  of  the  death-throes  of  1900,  nor 
on  the  birthday  of  the  twentieth  century.  But  it  is  a  habit  of 
the  human  mind  to  project  externally  its  own  subjective  states. 
And  it  is  in  accordance  with  this  naively  egoistic  tendency 
that  the  French  ascribe  their  own  senility  to  the  century,  and 
speak  o{  fin-de-siecle  when  they  ought  correctly  to  say  fin-de- 
race.^ 

But  however  silly  a  term  fin-de-siecle  may  be,  the  mental 
constitution  which  it  indicates  is  actually  present  in  influential 
circles.  The  disposition  of  the  times  is  curiously  confused,  a 
compound  of  feverish  restlessness  and  blunted  discouragement, 
of  fearful  presage  and  hang-dog  renunciation.  The  prevalent 
feeling  is  that  of  imminent  perdition  and  extinction.  Fin-de- 
siecle  is  at  once  a  confession  and  a  complaint.  The  old 
Northern  faith  contained  the  fearsome  doctrine  of  the  Dusk  of 
the  Gods.  In  our  days  there  have  arisen  in  more  highly- 
developed  minds  vague  qualms  of  a  Dusk  of  the  Nations,  in 
which  all  suns  and  all  stars  are  gradually  waning,  and  mankind 
with  all  its  institutions  and  creations  is  perishing  in  the  midst 
of  a  dying  world. 

It  is  not  for  the  first  time  in  the  course  of  history  that  the 
horror  of  world-annihilation  has  laid  hold  of  men's  minds.  A 
similar  sentiment  took  possession  of  the  Christian  peoples  at 
the  approach  of  the  year  1000.  But  there  is  an  essential 
difference  between  chiliastic  panic  and  fin-de-siecle  excitement. 
The  despair  at  the  turn  of  the  first  millennium  of  Christian 
chronology  proceeded  from  a  feeling  of  fulness  of  life  and  joy  of 
life.  Men  were  aware  of  throbbing  pulses,  they  were  conscious 
of  unweakened  capacity  for  enjoyment,  and  found  it  un- 
mitigatedly  appalling  to  perish  together  with  the  world,  when 

♦  This  passage  has  been  misunderstood.  It  has  been  taken  to  mean  that 
all  the  French  nation  had  degenerated,  and  their  race  was  approaching  its  end. 
However,  from  the  concluding  paragraph  of  this  chapter,  it  may  be  clearly  seen 
that  I  had  in  my  eye  only  the  upper  ten  thousand.  The  peasant  population, 
and  a  part  of  the  working  classes  and  the  bourgeoisie,  are  sound.  I  assert 
only  the  decay  of  the  rich  inhabitants  of  great  cities  and  the  leading  classes. 
It  is  they  who  have  discovered  fiti-de-siecle,  and  it  is  to  them  also  that 
fin-de-race  applies. 


FIN-DE-Sl£CLE  3 

there  were  yet  so  many  flagons  to  drain  and  so  many  lips  to 
kiss,  and  when  they  could  yet  rejoice  so  vigorously  in  both  love 
and  wine.  Of  all  this  in  the  fin- de-siecle  feeling  there  is  nothing. 
Neither  has  it  anything  in  common  with  the  impressive  twilight- 
melancholy  of  an  aged  Faust,  surveying  the  work  of  a  lifetime, 
and  who,  proud  of  what  has  been  achieved,  and  contemplating 
what  is  begun  but  not  completed,  is  seized  with  vehement 
desire  to  finish  his  work,  and,  awakened  from  sleep  by  haunting 
unrest,  leaps  up  with  the  cry  :  '  Was  ich  gedacht,  ich  eil'  es  zu 
vollbringen.'* 

Quite  otherwise  is  the  fin-de-siecle  mood.  It  is  the  impotent 
despair  of  a  sick  man,  who  feels  himself  dying  by  inches  in  the 
midst  of  an  eternally  living  nature  blooming  insolently  for  ever. 
It  is  the  envy  of  a  rich,  hoary  voluptuary,  who  sees  a  pair  of  young 
lovers  making  for  a  sequestered  forest  nook ;  it  is  the  mortifica- 
tion of  the  exhausted  and  impotent  refugee  from  a  Florentine 
plague,  seeking  in  an  enchanted  garden  the  experiences  of  a 
Decamerone,  but  striving  in  vain  to  snatch  one  more  pleasure 
of  sense  from  the  uncertain  hour.  The  reader  of  Turgenieff's 
A  Nest  of  Nobles  will  remember  the  end  of  that  beautiful 
work.  The  hero,  Lavretzky,  comes  as  a  man  advanced  in 
years  to  visit  at  the  house  where,  in  his  young  days,  he  had 
lived  his  romance  of  love.  All  is  unchanged.  The  garden  is 
fragrant  with  flowers.  In  the  great  trees  the  happy  birds  are 
chirping;  on  the  fresh  turf  the  children  romp  and  shout. 
Lavretzky  alone  has  grown  old,  and  contemplates,  in  mournful 
exclusion,  a  scene  where  nature  holds  on  its  joyous  way,  caring 
nought  that  Lisa  the  beloved  is  vanished,  and  Lavretzky,  a 
broken-down  man,  weary  of  life.  Lavretzky's  admission  that, 
amidst  all  this  ever-young,  ever-blooming  nature,  for  him  alone 
there  comes  no  morrow;  Alving's  dying  cry  for  'The  sun — 
the  sun !'  in  Ibsen's  Ghosts — these  express  rightly  the  fin-de- 
siecle  attitude  of  to-day. 

This  fashionable  term  has  the  necessary  vagueness  which 
fits  it  to  convey  all  the  half-conscious  and  indistinct  drift  of 
current  ideas.  Just  as  the  words  *  freedom,'  '  ideal,'  '  progress  ' 
seem  to  express  notions,  but  actually  are  only  sounds,  so  in 
itself  fin-de-siecle  means  nothing,  and  receives  a  varying  signifi- 
cation according  to  the  diverse  mental  horizons  of  those  who 
use  it 

The  surest  way  of  knowing  what  fin-de-siecle  implies,  is  to 
consider  a  series  of  particular  instances  where  the  word  has 
been  applied.  Those  which  I  shall  adduce  are  drawn  from 
French  books  and  periodicals  of  the  last  two  years. f 

*  '  My  thought  I  hasten  to  fulfil.' 

t  A  four-act  comedy,  by  H.  Micard  and  F.  de  Jouvenot,  named  Fin-de- 
Sihle^  which  was  played   in  Paris  in  1890,  hardly  avails  to  determine  the 


4  DEGENERATION 

A  king  abdicates,  leaves  his  country,  and  takes  up  his 
residence  in  Paris,  having  reserved  certain  political  rights. 
One  day  he  loses  much  money  at  play,  and  is  in  a  dilemma. 
He  therefore  makes  an  agreement  with  the  Government  of  his 
country,  by  which,  on  receipt  of  a  million  francs,  he  renounces 
for  ever  every  title,  official  position  and  privilege  remaining  to 
him.     Fin-de-siecle  king. 

A  bishop  is  prosecuted  for  insulting  the  minister  of  public 
worship.  The  proceedings  terminated,  his  attendant  canons 
distribute  amongst  the  reporters  in  court  a  defence,  copies  of 
which  he  has  prepared  beforehand.  When  condemned  to  pay 
a  fine,  he  gets  up  a  public  collection,  which  brings  in  tenfold  the 
amount  of  the  penalty.  He  publishes  a  justificatory  volume 
containing  all  the  expressions  of  support  which  have  reached 
him.  He  makes  a  tour  through  the  country,  exhibits  himself 
in  every  cathedral  to  the  mob  curious  to  see  the  celebrity  of 
the  hour,  and  takes  the  opportunity  of  sending  round  the  plate. 
Fin-de-siecle  bishop. 

The  corpse  of  the  murderer  Pranzini  after  execution  under- 
went autopsy.  The  head  of  the  secret  police  cuts  off  a  large 
piece  of  skin,  has  it  tanned,  and  the  leather  made  into  cigar- 
cases  and  card-cases  for  himself  and  some  of  his  friends.  Fin- 
de-siecle  official. 

An  American  weds  his  bride  in  a  gas-factory,  then  gets  with 
her  into  a  balloon,  held  in  readiness,  and  enters  on  a  honey- 
moon in  the  clouds.     Fin-de-siecle  wedding. 

An  attache  of  the  Chinese  Embassy  publishes  high-class  works 
in  French  under  his  own  name.  He  negotiates  with  banks 
respecting  a  large  loan  for  his  Government,  and  draws  large 
advances  for  himself  on  the  unfinished  contract.  Later  it 
comes  out  that  the  books  were  composed  by  his  French 
secretary,  and  that  he  has  swindled  the  banks.  Fin-de-siecle 
diplomatist. 

A  public  schoolboy  walking  with  a  chum  passes  the  gaol 
where  his  father,  a  rich  banker,  has  repeatedly  been  imprisoned 
for  fraudulent  bankruptcy,  embezzlement  and  similar  lucrative 
misdemeanours.  Pointing  to  the  building,  he  tells  his  friend 
with  a  smile  :  *  Look,  that's  the  governor's  school.'  Fin-de- 
siecle  son. 

Two  young  ladles  of  good  family,  and  school  friends,  are 
chatting  together.  One  heaves  a  sigh.  *  What's  the  matter  ?' 
asks  the  other.  '  Pm  in  love  with  Raoul,  and  he  with  me.' 
'  Oh,  that's  lovely !  He's  handsome,  young,  elegant ;  and  yet 
you're  sad  ?'     '  Yes,  but  he  has  nothing,  and  is  nothing,  and 

sense  of  the  word  as  the  French  use  it.  The  authors  were  concerned,  not 
to  depict  a  phase  of  the  age  or  a  psychological  state,  but  only  to  give  an 
attractive  title  to  their  piece. 


FIN-DE-Sl£CLE  "   5 

my  parents  want  me  to  marry  the  baron,  who  is  fat,  bald,  and 
ugly,  but  has  a  huge  lot  of  money.'  *  Well,  marry  the  baron 
without  any  fuss,  and  make  Raoul  acquainted  with  him,  you 
goose.'     Fin-de-siecle  girls. 

Such  test-cases  show  how  the  word  is  understood  in  the 
land  of  its  birth.  Germans  who  ape  Paris  fashions,  and  apply 
fin-de-siecle  almost  exclusively  to  mean  what  is  indecent  and 
improper,  misuse  the  word  in  their  coarse  ignorance  as  much 
as,  in  a  previous  generation,  they  vulgarized  the  expression 
demi-monde,  misunderstanding  its  proper  meaning,  and  giving 
it  the  sense  oi  fille  de  joie,  whereas  its  creator  Dumas  intended 
it  to  denote  persons  whose  lives  contained  some  dark  period, 
for  which  they  were  excluded  from  the  circle  to  which  they 
belong  by  birth,  education,  or  profession,  but  who  do  not  by 
their  manner  betray,  at  least  to  the  inexperienced,  that  they 
are  no  longer  acknowledged  as  members  of  their  own  caste. 

Prima  facie,  a  king  who  sells  his  sovereign  rights  for  a  big 
cheque  seems  to  have  little  in  common  with  a  newly-wedded 
pair  who  make  their  wedding-trip  in  a  balloon,  nor  is  the 
connection  at  once  obvious  between  an  episcopal  Barnum  and 
a  well-brought-up  young  lad)^  who  advises  her  friend  to  a 
wealthy  marriage  mitigated  by  a  cicisheo.  All  these  fin-de-siecle 
cases  have,  nevertheless,  a  common  feature,  to  wit,  a  contempt 
for  traditional  views  of  custom  and  morality. 

Such  is  the  notion  underlying  the  word  fin-de-siecle.  It 
means  a  practical  emancipation  from  traditional  discipline, 
which  theoretically  is  still  in  force.  To  the  voluptuary  this 
means  unbridled  lewdness,  the  unchaining  of  the  beast  in  man  ; 
to  the  withered  heart  of  the  egoist,  disdain  of  all  consideration 
for  his  fellow-men,  the  trampling  under  foot  of  all  barriers 
which  enclose  brutal  greed  of  lucre  and  lust  of  pleasure  ;  to  the 
contemner  of  the  world  it  means  the  shameless  ascendency 
of  base  impulses  and  motives,  which  were,  if  not  virtuously 
suppressed,  at  least  hypocritically  hidden  ;  to  the  believer  it 
means  the  repudiation  of  dogma,  the  negation  of  a  super- 
sensuous  world,  the  descent  into  flat  phenomenalism  ;  to  the 
sensitive  nature  yearning  for  aesthetic  thrills,  it  means  the 
vanishing  of  ideals  in  art,  and  no  more  power  in  its  accepted 
forms  to  arouse  emotion.  And  to  all,  it  means  the  end  of  an 
established  order,  which  for  thousands  of  years  has  satisfied 
logic,  fettered  depravity,  and  in  every  art  matured  something 
of  beauty. 

One  epoch  of  history  is  unmistakably  in  its  decline,  and 
another  is  announcing  its  approach.  There  is  a  sound  of 
rending  in  every  tradition,  and  it  is  as  though  the  morrow 
would  not  link  itself  with  to-day.  Things  as  they  are  totter 
and  plunge,  and  they  are  suffered  to  reel  and  fall,  because  man 


6  DEGENERATION 

is  weary,  and  there  is  no  faith  that  it  is  worth  an  effort  to  up- 
hold them.  Views  that  have  hitherto  governed  minds  are  dead 
or  driven  hence  hke  disenthroned  kings,  and  for  their  inheritance 
they  that  hold  the  titles  and  they  that  would  usurp  are  locked 
in  struggle.  Meanwhile  interregnum  in  all  its  terrors  prevails  ; 
there  is  confusion  among  the  powers  that  be  ;  the  million, 
robbed  of  its  leaders,  knows  not  where  to  turn ;  the  strong 
work  their  will ;  false  prophets  arise,  and  dominion  is  divided 
amongst  those  whose  rod  is  the  heavier  because  their  time  is 
short.  Men  look  with  longing  for  whatever  new  things  are  at 
hand,  without  presage  whence  they  will  come  or  what  they 
will  be.  They  have  hope  that  in  the  chaos  of  thought,  art 
may  yield  revelations  of  the  order  that  is  to  follow  on  this 
tangled  web.  The  poet,  the  musician,  is  to  announce,  or 
divine,  or  at  least  suggest  in  what  forms  civilization  will  further 
be  evolved.  What  shall  be  considered  good  to-morrow — what 
shall  be  beautiful?  What  shall  we  know  to-morrow  —  what 
believe  in  ?  What  shall  inspire  us  ?  How  shall  we  enjoy  ?  So 
rings  the  question  from  the  thousand  voices  of  the  people,  and 
where  a  market-vendor  sets  up  his  booth  and  claims  to  give  an 
answer,  where  a  fool  or  a  knave  suddenly  begins  to  prophesy 
in  verse  or  prose,  in  sound  or  colour,  or  professes  to  practise 
his  art  otherwise  than  his  predecessors  and  competitors,  there 
gathers  a  great  concourse,  crowding  around  him  to  seek  in 
what  he  has  wrought,  as  in  oracles  of  the  Pythia,  some  meaning 
to  be  divined  and  interpreted.  And  the  more  vague  and 
insignificant  they  are,  the  more  they  seem  to  convey  of  the 
future  to  the  poor  gaping  souls  gasping  for  revelations,  and 
the  more  greedily  and  passionately  are  they  expounded. 

Such  is  the  spectacle  presented  by  the  doings  of  men  in 
the  reddened  light  of  the  Dusk  of  the  Nations.  Massed  in 
the  sky  the  clouds  are  aflame  in  the  weirdly  beautiful  glow 
which  was  observed  for  the  space  of  years  after  the  eruption 
of  Krakatoa.  Over  the  earth  the  shadows  creep  with  deepen- 
ing gloom,  wrapping  all  objects  in  a  mysterious  dimness,  in 
which  all  certainty  is  destroyed  and  any  guess  seems  plausible. 
Forms  lose  their  outlines,  and  are  dissolved  in  floating  mist. 
The  day  is  over,  the  night  draws  on.  The  old  anxiously  watch 
its  approach,  fearing  they  will  not  live  to  see  the  end.  A  few 
amongst  the  young  and  strong  are  conscious  of  the  vigour  of 
life  in  all  their  veins  and  nerves,  and  rejoice  in  the  coming  sun- 
rise. Dreams,  which  fill  up  the  hours  of  darkness  till  the 
breaking  of  the  new  day,  bring  to  the  former  comfortless 
memories,  to  the  latter  high-souled  hopes.  And  in  the  artistic 
products  of  the  age  we  see  the  form  in  which  these  dreams 
become  sensible. 

Here  is  the  place  to  forestall  a  possible  misunderstanding. 


FIN-DE-SIECLE  7 

The  great  majority  of  the  middle  and  lower  classes  is  naturally 
not  fin-de-siecle.  It  is  true  that  the  spirit  of  the  times  is  stirring 
the  nations  down  to  their  lowest  depths,  and  awaking  even  in 
the  most  inchoate  and  rudimentary  human  being  a  wondrous 
feeling  of  stir  and  upheaval.  But  this  more  or  less  slight  touch 
of  moral  sea-sickness  does  not  excite  in  him  the  cravings  of 
travailing  women,  nor  express  itself  in  new  aesthetic  needs. 
The  Philistine  or  the  Proletarian  still  finds  undiluted  satisfac- 
tion in  the  old  and  oldest  forms  of  art  and  poetry,  if  he  knows 
himself  unwatched  by  the  scornful  eye  of  the  votary  of  fashion, 
and  is  free  to  yield  to  his  own  inclinations.  He  prefers  Ohnet's 
novels  to  all  the  symbolists,  and  Mascagni's  Cavalleria 
Rusticana  to  all  Wagnerians  and  to  Wagner  himself;  he 
enjoys  himself  royally  over  slap-dash  farces  and  music-hall 
melodies,  and  yawns  or  is  angered  at  Ibsen  ;  he  contemplates 
gladly  chromos  of  paintings  depicting  Munich  beer-houses  and 
rustic  taverns,  and  passes  the  open-air  painters  without  a 
glance.  It  is  only  a  very  small  minority  who  honestly  find 
pleasure  in  the  new  tendencies,  and  announce  them  with 
genuine  conviction  as  that  which  alone  is  sound,  a  sure  guide 
for  the  future,  a  pledge  of  pleasure  and  of  moral  benefit.  But 
this  minority  has  the  gift  of  covering  the  whole  visible  surface 
of  society,  as  a  little  oil  extends  over  a  large  area  of  the  surface 
of  the  sea.  It  consists  chiefly  of  rich  educated  people,  or  of 
fanatics.  The  former  give  the  ton  to  all  the  snobs,  the  fools, 
and  the  blockheads ;  the  latter  make  an  impression  upon  the 
weak  and  dependent,  and  intimidate  the  nervous.  All  snobs 
affect  to  have  the  same  taste  as  the  select  and  exclusive 
minority,  who  pass  by  everything  that  once  was  considered 
beautiful  with  an  air  of  the  greatest  contempt.  And  thus  it 
appears  as  if  the  whole  of  civilized  humanity  were  converted  to 
the  aesthetics  of  the  Dusk  of  the  Nations. 


CHAPTER  II. 

THE     SYMPTOMS. 

Let  us  follow  in  the  train  frequenting  the  palaces  of  European 
capitals,  the  highways  of  fashionable  watering-places,  the  re- 
ceptions of  the  rich,  and  observe  the  figures  of  which  it  is 
composed. 

Amongst  the  women,  one  wears  her  hair  combed  smoothly 
back  and  down  like  Rafael's  Maddalena  Doni  in  the  Ufiizi  at 
Florence;  another  wears  it  drawn  up  high  over  the  temples  like 
Julia,  daughter  of  Titus,  or  Plotina,  wife  of  Trajan,  in  the  busts 


8  DEGENERATION 

in  the  Louvre  ;  a  third  has  hers  cut  short  in  front  on  the  brow 
and  long  in  the  nape,  waved  and  Hghtly  puffed,  after  the  fashion 
of  the  fifteenth  century,  as  maybe  seen  in  the  pages  and  young 
knights  of  Gentile  Bellini,  Botticelli  and  Mantegna.  Many 
have  their  hair  dyed,  and  in  such  a  fashion  as  to  be  startling  in 
its  revolt  against  the  law  of  organic  harmony,  and  the  effect  of 
a  studied  discord,  only  to  be  resolved  into  the  higher  poly- 
phony of  the  toilet  taken  as  a  whole.  This  swarthy,  dark-eyed 
woman  snaps  her  fingers  at  nature  by  framing  the  brown  tones 
of  her  face  in  copper-red  or  golden-yellow ;  yonder  blue-eyed 
fair,  with  a  complexion  of  milk  and  roses,  intensifies  the  bright- 
ness of  her  cheeks  by  a  setting  of  artificially  blue-black  tresses. 
Here  is  one  who  covers  her  head  with  a  huge  heavy  felt  hat, 
an  obvious  imitation,  in  its  brim  turned  up  at  the  back,  and  its 
trimming  of  large  plush  balls,  of  the  sombrero  of  the  Spanish 
bull-fighters,  who  were  displaying  their  skill  in  Paris  at  the 
exhibition  of  1889,  and  giving  all  kinds  of  motifs  to  modistes. 
There  is  another  who  has  stuck  on  her  hair  the  emerald-green 
or  ruby-red  biretta  of  the  mediaeval  travelling  student.  The 
costume  is  in  keeping  with  the  bizarre  coiffure.  Here  is  a 
mantle  reaching  to  the  waist,  slit  up  on  one  side,  draping  the 
breast  like  a  portiere,  and  trimmed  round  the  hem  with  little 
silken  bells,  by  the  incessant  clicking  of  which  a  sensitive 
spectator  would  in  a  very  short  time  either  be  hypnotized  or 
driven  to  take  frantic  fright.  There  is  a  Greek  peplos,  of  which 
the  tailors  speak  as  glibly  as  any  venerable  philologist.  Next 
to  the  stiff  monumental  trim  of  Catharine  de  Medicis,  and  the 
high  ruff  of  Mary,  Queen  of  Scots,  goes  the  flowing  white 
raiment  of  the  angel  of  the  Annunciation  in  Memling's  pictures, 
and,  by  way  of  antithesis,  that  caricature  of  masculine  array, 
the  fitting  cloth  coat,  with  widely  opened  lapels,  waistcoat, 
stiffened  shirt-front,  small  stand-up  collar,  and  necktie.  The 
majority,  anxious  to  be  inconspicuous  in  unimaginative  medi- 
ocrity, seems  to  have  for  its  leading  style  a  laboured  rococo, 
with  bewildering  oblique  lines,  incomprehensible  swellings, 
puffings,  expansions  and  contractions,  folds  with  irrational 
beginning  and  aimless  ending,  in  which  all  the  outlines  of  the 
human  figure  are  lost,  and  which  cause  women's  bodies  to 
resemble  now  a  beast  of  the  Apocalypse,  now  an  armchair,  now 
a  triptych,  or  some  other  ornament. 

The  children,  strolling  beside  their  mothers  thus  bedecked, 
are  embodiments  of  one  of  the  most  afflicting  aberrations  into 
which  the  imagination  of  a  spinster  ever  lapsed.  They  are 
living  copies  of  the  pictures  of  Kate  Greenaway,  whose  love  of 
children,  diverted  from  its  natural  outlet,  has  sought  gratifica- 
tion in  the  most  affected  style  of  drawing,  wherein  the  sacred- 
ness  of  childhood  is  profaned  under  absurd  disguises.     Here  is 


FIN-DE-SIECLE  9 

an  imp  dressed  from  head  to  foot  in  the  blood-red  costume  of 
a  mediceval  executioner ;  there  a  four-j^ear-old  girl  wears  a 
cabriolet  bonnet  of  her  great-grandmother's  days  and  sweeps 
after  her  a  court  mantle  of  loud-hued  velvet.  Another  wee  dot, 
just  able  to  keep  on  her  tottering  legs,  has  been  arrayed  in  the 
long  dress  of  a  lady  of  the  First  Empire,  with  puffed  sleeves 
and  short  waist. 

The  men  complete  the  picture.  They  are  preserved  from 
excessive  oddity  through  fear  of  the  Philistine's  laugh,  or 
through  some  remains  of  sanity  in  taste,  and,  with  the  excep- 
tion of  the  red  dress- coat  with  metal  buttons,  and  knee-breeches 
with  silk  stockings,  with  which  some  idiots  in  eye-glass  and 
gardenia  try  to  rival  burlesque  actors,  present  little  deviation 
from  the  ruling  canon  of  the  masculine  attire  of  the  day.  But 
fancy  plays  the  more  freely  among  their  hair.  One  displays 
the  short  curls  and  the  wavy  double-pointed  beard  of  Lucius 
Verus,  another  looks  like  the  whiskered  cat  in  a  Japanese 
kakemono.  His  neighbour  has  the  barhiche  of  Henri  IV., 
another  the  fierce  moustache  of  a  lansquenet  by  F.  Brun,  or 
the  chin-tuft  of  the  city-watch  in  Rembrandt's  *  Ronde  de 
Nuit.' 

The  common  feature  in  all  these  male  specimens  is  that  they 
do  not  express  their  real  idiosyncrasies,  but  try  to  present 
something  that  they  are  not.  They  are  not  content  to  show 
their  natural  figure,  nor  even  to  supplement  it  by  legitimate 
accessories,  in  harmony  with  the  type  to  which  they  approxi- 
mate, but  they  seek  to  model  themselves  after  some  artistic 
pattern  which  has  no  affinity  with  their  own  nature,  or  is  even 
antithetical  to  it.  Nor  do  they  for  the  most  part  limit  them- 
selves to  one  pattern,  but  copy  several  at  once,  which  jar  one 
with  another.  Thus  we  get  heads  set  on  shoulders  not 
belonging  to  them,  costumes  the  elements  of  which  are  as 
disconnected  as  though  they  belonged  to  a  dream,  colours  that 
seem  to  have  been  matched  in  the  dark.  The  impression  is 
that  of  a  masked  festival,  where  all  are  in  disguises,  and  with 
heads  too  in  character.  There  are  several  occasions,  such  as 
the  varnishing  day  at  the  Paris  Champs-  de  Mars  salon,  or  the 
opening  of  the  Exhibition  of  the  Royal  Academy  in  London, 
where  this  impression  is  so  weirdly  intensified,  that  one  seems 
to  be  moving  amongst  dummies  patched  together  at  haphazard, 
in  a  mythical  mortuary,  from  fragments  of  bodies,  heads, 
trunks,  limbs,  just  as  they  came  to  hand,  and  which  the 
designer,  in  heedless  pell-mell,  clothed  at  random  in  the 
garments  of  all  epochs  and  countries.  Every  single  figure 
strives  visibly  by  some  singularity  in  outline,  set,  cut,  or  colour, 
to  startle  attention  violently,  and  imperiously  to  detain  it. 
Each  one  wishes  to  create  a  strong  nervous  excitement,  no 


lo  DEGENERATION 

matter  whether  agreeably  or  disagreeably.     The  fixed  idea  is 
to  produce  an  effect  at  any  price. 

Let  us  follow  these  folk  in  masquerade  and  with  heads  in  char- 
acter to  their  dwellings.  Here  are  at  once  stage  properties  and 
lumber-rooms,  rag-shops  and  museums.  The  study  of  the 
master  of  the  house  is  a  Gothic  hall  of  chivalry,  with  cuirasses, 
shields  and  crusading  banners  on  the  walls  ;  or  the  shop  of  an 
Oriental  bazaar  with  Kurd  carpets,  Bedouin  chests,  Circassian 
narghilehs  and  Indian  lacquered  caskets.  By  the  mirror  on 
the  mantelpiece  are  fierce  or  funny  Japanese  masks.  Between 
the  windows  are  staring  trophies  of  swords,  daggers,  clubs  and 
old  wheel-trigger  pistols.  Daylight  filters  in  through  painted 
glass,  where  lean  saints  kneel  in  rapture.  In  the  drawing-room 
the  walls  are  either  hung  with  worm-eaten  Gobelin  tapestry, 
discoloured  by  the  sun  of  two  centuries  (or  it  may  be  by  a 
deftly  mixed  chemical  bath),  or  covered  with  Morris  draperies, 
on  which  strange  birds  flit  amongst  crazily  ramping  branches, 
and  blowzy  flowers  coquet  with  vain  butterflies.  Amongst 
armchairs  and  padded  seats,  such  as  the  cockered  bodies  of 
our  contemporaries  know  and  expect,  there  are  Renaissance 
stools,  the  heart  or  shell-shaped  bottoms  of  which  would  attract 
none  but  the  toughened  hide  of  a  rough  hero  of  the  jousting 
lists.  Startling  is  the  effect  of  a  gilt-painted  couch  between 
buhl-work  cabinets  and  a  puckered  Chinese  table,  next  an 
inlaid  writing-table  of  graceful  rococo.  On  all  the  tables  and 
in  all  the  cabinets  is  a  display  of  antiquities  or  articles  of  vertu, 
big  or  small,  and  for  the  most  part  warranted  not  genuine ;  a 
figure  of  Tanagra  near  a  broken  jade  snuff-box,  a  Limoges 
plate  beside  a  long-necked  Persian  waterpot  of  brass,  a  bon- 
bonniere  between  a  breviary  bound  in  carved  ivory,  and  snuffers 
of  chiselled  copper.  Pictures  stand  on  easels  draped  with 
velvet,  the  frames  made  conspicuous  by  some  oddity,  such  as  a 
spider  in  her  web,  a  metal  bunch  of  thistle-heads,  and  the  like. 
In  a  corner  a  sort  of  temple  is  erected  to  a  squatting  or  a  stand- 
ing Buddha.  The  boudoir  of  the  mistress  of  the  house  partakes 
of  the  nature  of  a  chapel  and  of  a  harem.  The  toilet-table  is 
designed  and  decorated  like  an  altar,  a  prie-Dieu  is  a  pledge  for 
the  piety  of  the  inmate,  and  a  broad  divan,  with  an  orgiastic 
abandon  about  the  cushions,  gives  reassurance  that  things  are 
not  so  bad.  In  the  dining-room  the  walls  are  hung  with  the 
whole  stock-in-trade  of  a  porcelain  shop,  costly  silver  is  dis- 
played in  an  old  farmhouse  dresser,  and  on  the  table  bloom 
aristocratic  orchids,  and  proud  silver  vessels  shine  between 
rustic  stone-ware  plates  and  ewers.  In  the  evening,  lamps  of 
the  stature  of  a  man  illumine  these  rooms  with  light  both 
subdued  and  tinted  by  sprawling  shades,  red,  yellow  or  green 
of  hue,  and  even  covered  by  black  lace.     Hence  the  inmates 


FIN-DE-Sl£:CLE  ii 

appear,  now  bathed  in  variegated  diaphanous  mist,  now  suffused 
with  coloured  radiance,  while  the  corners  and  backgrounds  are 
shrouded  in  depths  of  artfully-effected  ciair-ohscur,  and  the 
furniture  and  bric-i-brac  are  dyed  in  unreal  chords  of  colour. 
Unreal,  too,  are  the  studied  postures,  by  assuming  which  the 
inmates  are  enabled  to  reproduce  on  their  faces  the  light  effects 
of  Rembrandt  or  Schalcken.  Everything  in  these  houses  aims  at 
exciting  the  nerves  and  dazzling  the  senses.  The  disconnected 
and  antithetical  effects  in  all  arrangements,  the  constant  con- 
tradiction between  form  and  purpose,  the  outlandishness  of  most 
objects,  is  intended  to  be  bewildering.  There  must  be  no  sen- 
timent of  repose,  such  as  is  felt  at  any  composition,  the  plan  of 
which  is  easily  taken  in,  nor  of  the  comfort  attending  a  prompt 
comprehension  of  all  the  details  of  one's  environment.  He 
who  enters  here  must  not  doze,  but  be  thrilled.  If  the  master 
of  the  house  roams  about  these  rooms  clothed  after  the  example 
of  Balzac  in  a  white  monk's  cowl,  or  after  the  model  of  Richepin 
in  the  red  cloak  of  the  robber-chieftain  of  an  operetta,  he  only 
gives  expression  to  the  admission  that  in  such  a  comedy  theatre 
a  clown  is  in  place.  All  is  discrepant,  indiscriminate  jumble. 
The  unity  of  abiding  by  one  definite  historic  style  counts  as 
old-fashioned,  provincial,  Philistine,  and  the  time  has  not  yet 
produced  a  style  of  its  own.  An  approach  is,  perhaps,  made  to 
one  in  the  furniture  of  Carabin,  exhibited  in  the  salon  of  the 
Champs  de  Mars.  But  these  balusters,  down  which  naked 
furies  and  possessed  creatures  are  rolling  in  mad  riot,  these 
bookcases,  where  base  and  pilaster  consist  of  a  pile  of  guillo- 
tined heads,  and  even  this  table,  representing  a  gigantic  open 
book  borne  by  gnomes,  make  up  a  style  that  is  feverish  and 
infernal.  If  the  director-general  of  Dante's  '  Inferno '  had  an 
audience-chamber,  it  might  well  be  furnished  with  such  as 
these.  Carabin's  creations  may  be  intended  to  equip  a  house, 
but  they  are  a  nightmare. 

We  have  seen  how  society  dresses  and  where  it  dwells.  We 
shall  now  observe  how  it  enjoys  itself,  and  where  it  seeks 
stimulation  and  distraction.  In  the  art  exhibition  it  crowds, 
with  proper  little  cries  of  admiration,  round  Besnard's  women, 
with  their  grass-green  hair,  faces  of  sulphur-yellow  or  fiery-red, 
and  arms  spotted  in  violet  and  pink,  dressed  in  a  shining  blue 
cloud  resembling  faintly  a  sort  of  nightdress ;  that  is  to  say,  it 
has  a  fondness  for  bold,  revolutionary  debauch  of  colour.  But 
not  exclusively  so.  Next  to  Besnard  it  worships  with  equal  or 
greater  rapture  the  works  of  Puvis  de  Chavannes,  wan,  and  as 
though  blotted  out  with  a  half-transparent  wash  of  hme  ;  or 
those  of  Carriere,  suffused  in  a  problematical  vapour,  reeking 
as  if  with  a  cloud  of  incense ;  or  those  of  Roll,  shimmering  in 
a  soft  and  silvery  sheen.     The  purple  of  the   Manet  school, 


12  DEGENERATION 

steeping  the  whole  visible  creation  in  bluish  glamour,  the  half- 
tones, or,  rather,  phantom-colours  of  the  '  Archaists,'  that  seem 
to  have  risen,  faded  and  nebulous,  out  of  some  primeval  tomb, 
and  all  these  palettes  of  '  dead  leaves,'  '  old  ivory,'  evaporating 
yellows,  smothered  purple,  attract  on  the  whole  more  rapturous 
glances  than  the  voluptuous  *  orchestration '  of  the  Besnard 
section.  The  subject  of  the  picture  leaves  these  select  gazers 
apparently  indifferent ;  it  is  only  seamstresses  and  country-folk, 
the  grateful  clientele  of  the  chromo,  who  linger  over  the  '  story,' 
And  yet  these  as  they  pass  stop  by  preference  before  Henry 
Martin's  'Every  Man  and  his  Chimsera,'  in  which  bloated 
figures,  in  an  atmosphere  of  yellow  broth,  are  doing  incompre- 
hensible things  that  need  profound  explanation  ;  or  before  Jean 
Beraud's  '  Christ  and  the  Adulteress,'  where,  in  a  Parisian 
dining-room,  in  the  midst  of  a  company  in  dress-coats,  and 
before  a  woman  in  ball-dress,  a  Christ  robed  in  correct 
Oriental  gear,  and  with  an  orthodox  halo,  acts  a  scene  out  of 
the  Gospel ;  or  before  Raffaelli's  topers  and  cut-throats  of  the 
purlieus  of  Paris,  drawn  in  high  relief,  but  painted  with  ditch- 
water  and  dissolved  clay.  Steering  in  the  wake  of  '  society  ' 
through  a  picture-gallery,  one  will  be  unalterably  convinced 
that  they  turn  up  their  eyes  and  fold  their  hands  before  pictures 
at  which  the  commoner  sort  burst  out  laughing  or  pull  the 
grimace  of  a  man  who  believes  he  is  made  a  fool  of;  and  that 
they  shrug  their  shoulders  and  hasten  with  scornful  exchange 
of  looks  past  such  as  the  latter  pause  at  in  grateful  enjoy- 
ment. 

At  opera  and  concert  the  rounded  forms  of  ancient  melody 
are  coldly  listened  to.  The  translucent  thematic  treatment  of 
classic  masters,  their  conscientious  observance  of  the  laws  of 
counterpoint,  are  reckoned  flat  and  tedious.  A  coda  graceful 
in  cadence,  serene  in  its  '  dying  fall,'  a  pedal  -  base  with 
correct  harmonization,  provoke  yawns.  Applause  and  wreaths 
are  reserved  for  Wagner's  Tristan  and  Isolde,  and  especially 
the  mystic  Parsifal,  for  the  religious  music  in  Bruneau's 
Dream,  or  the  symphonies  of  Cesar  Franck.  Music  in  order 
to  please  must  either  counterfeit  religious  devotion,  or  agitate 
the  mind  by  its  form.  The  musical  listener  is  accustomed 
involuntarily  to  develop  a  little  in  his  mind  every  motive 
occurring  in  a  piece.  The  mode  in  which  the  composer  carries 
out  his  motif  is  bound,  accordingly,  to  differ  entirely  from  this 
anticipated  development.  It  must  not  admit  of  being  guessed. 
A  dissonant  interval  must  appear  where  a  consonant  interval 
was  expected  ;  if  the  hearer  is  hoping  that  a  phrase  in  what  is 
an  obvious  final  cadence  will  be  spun  out  to  its  natural  end,  it 
must  be  sharply  interrupted  in  the  middle  of  a  bar.  Keys 
and  pitch  must  change  suddenly.     In  the  orchestra  a  vigorous 


FIN-DE-SI^CLE  13 

polyphony  must  summon  the  attention  in  several  directions  at 
once  ;  particular  instruments,  or  groups  of  instruments,  must 
address  the  listener  simultaneously  without  heeding  each  other, 
till  he  gets  as  nervously  excited  as  the  man  who  vainly  en- 
deavours to  understand  what  is  being  said  in  the  jangle  of  a 
dozen  voices.  The  theme,  even  if  in  the  first  instance  it  has  a 
distinct  outline,  must  become  ever  more  indefinite,  ever  more 
dissolving  into  a  mist,  in  which  the  imagination  can  see  any 
forms  it  likes,  as  in  driving  clouds  of  night.  The  tide  of  sound 
must  flow  on  without  any  perceptible  limit  or  goal,  surging  up 
and  down  in  endless  chromatic  passages  of  triplets.  If  now 
and  then  it  delude  the  listener,  borne  along  by  it,  and  straining 
his  eyes  to  see  land  with  glimpses  of  a  distant  shore,  this  is 
soon  discovered  to  be  a  fleeting  mirage.  The  music  must  con- 
tinually promise,  but  never  perform ;  must  seem  about  to  tell 
some  great  secret,  and  grow  dumb  or  break  away  ere  to 
throbbing  hearts  it  tells  the  word  they  wait  for.  The  audience 
go  to  their  concert-room  in  quest  of  Tantalus  moods,  and  leave 
it  with  all  the  nervous  exhaustion  of  a  young  pair  of  lovers, 
who  for  hours  at  the  nightly  tryst  have  sought  to  exchange 
caresses  through  a  closely- barred  window. 

The  books  in  which  the  pubhc  here  depicted  finds  its  delight 
or  edification  diffuse  a  curious  perfume  yielding  distinguishable 
odours  of  incense,  eau  de  Lubin  and  refuse,  one  or  the  other 
preponderating  alternately.  Mere  sewage  exhalations  are  played 
out.  The  filth  of  Zola's  art  and  of  his  disciples  in  literary 
canal-dredging  has  been  got  over,  and  nothing  remains  for  it 
but  to  turn  to  submerged  peoples  and  social  strata.  The  van- 
guard of  civilization  holds  its  nose  at  the  pit  of  undiluted 
naturalism,  and  can  only  be  brought  to  bend  over  it  with 
sympathy  and  curiosity  when,  by  cunning  engineering,  a  drain 
from  the  boudoir  and  the  sacristy  has  been  turned  into  it. 
Mere  sensuality  passes  as  commonplace,  and  only  finds  ad- 
mission when  disguised  as  something  unnatural  and  degenerate. 
Books  treating  of  the  relations  between  the  sexes,  with  no 
matter  how  little  reserve,  seem  too  dully  moral.  Elegant 
titillation  only  begins  where  normal  sexual  relations  leave  off. 
Priapus  has  become  a  symbol  of  virtue.  Vice  looks  to  Sodom 
and  Lesbos,  to  Bluebeard's  castle  and  the  servants'  hall  of  the 
*  divine  '  Marquis  de  Sade's  Justine,  for  its  embodiments. 

The  book  that  would  be  fashionable  must,  above  all,  be 
obscure.  The  intelligible  is  cheap  goods  for  the  million  only. 
It  must  further  discourse  in  a  certain  pulpit  tone — mildly 
unctuous,  not  too  insistent ;  and  it  must  follow  up  risky  scenes 
by  tearful  outpourings  of  love  for  the  lowly  and  the  suffering, 
or  glowing  transports  of  piety.  Ghost-stories  are  very  popular, 
but  they  must  come  on  in  scientific  disguise,  as  hypnotism, 


14  DEGENERATION 

telepathy,  somnambulism.  So  are  marionette-plays,  in  which 
seemingly  naive  but  knowing  rogues  make  used-up  old  ballad 
dummies  babble  like  babies  or  idiots.  So  are  esoteric  novels, 
in  which  the  author  hints  that  he  could  say  a  deal  about  magic, 
kabbala,  fakirism,  astrology  and  other  white  and  black  arts 
if  he  only  chose.  Readers  intoxicate  themselves  in  the  hazy 
word-sequences  of  symbolic  poetry.  Ibsen  dethrones  Goethe; 
Maeterlinck  ranks  with  Shakespeare  ;  Nietzsche  is  pronounced 
by  German  and  even  by  French  critics  to  be  the  leading 
German  writer  of  the  day;  the  Kreutzer  Sonata  is  the 
Bible  of  ladies,  who  are  amateurs  in  love,  but  bereft  of  lovers ; 
dainty  gentlemen  find  the  street  ballads  and  gaol-bird  songs  of 
Jules  Jouy,  Bruant,  MacNab  and  Xanroff  very  distingue  on 
account  of  '  the  warm  sympathy  pulsing  in  them,^  as  the  stock 
phrase  runs  ;  and  society  persons,  whose  creed  is  limited  to 
baccarat  and  the  money  market,  make  pilgrimages  to  the 
Oberammergau  Passion-play,  and  wipe  away  a  tear  over  Paul 
Verlaine's  invocations  to  the  Virgin. 

But  art  exhibitions,  concerts,  plays  and  books,  however 
extraordinary,  do  not  suffice  for  the  aesthetic  needs  of  elegant 
society.  Novel  sensations  alone  can  satisfy  it.  It  demands 
more  intense  stimulus,  and  hopes  for  it  in  spectacles,  where 
different  arts  strive  in  new  combinations  to  affect  all  the  senses 
at  once.  Poets  and  artists  strain  every  nerve  incessantly  to 
satisfy  this  craving.  A  painter,  who  for  that  matter  is  less 
occupied  with  new  impressions  than  with  old  puffs,  paints 
a  picture  indifferently  well  of  the  dying  Mozart  working  at  his 
Requiem,  and  exhibits  it  of  an  evening  in  a  darkened  room, 
while  a  dazzling  ray  of  skilfully  directed  electric  light  falls  on 
the  painting,  and  an  invisible  orchestra  softly  plays  the  Requiem. 
A  musician  goes  one  step  further.  Developing  to  the  utmost  a 
Bayreuth  usage,  he  arranges  a  concert  in  a  totally  darkened 
hall,  and  thus  delights  those  of  the  audience  who  find  oppor- 
tunity, by  happily  chosen  juxtapositions,  to  augment  their 
musical  sensations  by  hidden  enjoyment  of  another  sort. 
Haraucourt,  the  poet,  has  his  paraphrase  of  the  Gospel, 
written  in  spirited  verse,  recited  on  the  stage  by  Sarah 
Bernhardt,  while,  as  in  the  old-fashioned  melodrama,  soft 
music  in  unending  melody  accompanies  the  actress.  Even 
the  nose,  hitherto  basely  ignored  by  the  fine  arts,  attracts  the 
pioneers,  and  is  by  them  invited  to  take  part  in  esthetic 
delights.  A  hose  is  set  up  in  the  theatre,  by  which  the  spec- 
tators are  sprayed  with  perfumes.  On  the  stage  a  poem  in 
approximately  dramatic  form  is  recited.  In  every  division, 
act,  scene,  or  however  the  thing  is  called,  a  different  vowel- 
sound  is  made  to  preponderate  ;  during  each  the  theatre  is 
illuminated  with  a  differently  tinted  light,  the  orchestra  dis- 


FIN-DE-SlfeCLE  ij 

courses  music  in  a  different  key,  and  the  jet  gives  out  a  different 
perfume.  This  idea  of  accompanying  verses  with  odours  was 
thrown  out  years  ago,  half  in  jest,  by  Ernest  Eckstein.  Paris 
has  carried  it  out  in  sacred  earnest.  The  new  school  fetch  the 
puppet  theatre  out  of  the  nursery,  and  enact  pieces  for  adults 
which,  with  artificial  simplicity,  pretend  to  hide  or  reveal  a 
profound  meaning,  and  with  great  talent  and  ingenuity  execute 
a  magic-lantern  of  prettily  drawn  and  painted  figures  moving 
across  surprisingly  luminous  backgrounds  ;  and  these  living 
pictures  make  visible  the  process  of  thought  in  the  mind  of 
the  author  who  recites  his  accompanying  poem,  while  a  piano 
endeavours  to  illustrate  the  leading  emotion.  And  to  enjoy 
such  exhibitions  as  these  society  crowds  into  a  suburban 
circus,  the  loft  of  a  back  tenement,  a  second-hand  costumier's 
shop,  or  a  fantastic  artist's  restaurant,  where  the  performances, 
in  some  room  consecrated  to  beery  potations,  bring  together 
the  greasy  habitue  and  the  dainty  aristocratic  fledgling. 


CHAPTER  III. 

DIAGNOSIS. 

The  manifestations  described  in  the  preceding  chapter  must 
be  patent  enough  to  everyone,  be  he  never  so  narrow  a 
Philistine.  The  Philistine,  however,  regards  them  as  a  passing 
fashion  and  nothing  more ;  for  him  the  current  terms,  caprice, 
eccentricity,  affectation  of  novelty,  imitation,  instinct,  afford  a 
sufficient  explanation.  The  purely  literary  mind,  whose  merely 
aesthetic  culture  does  not  enable  him  to  understand  the  con- 
nections of  things,  and  to  seize  their  real  meaning,  deceives 
himself  and  others  as  to  his  ignorance  by  means  of  sounding 
phrases,  and  loftily  talks  of  a  '  restless  quest  of  a  new  ideal  by 
the  modern  spirit,'  '  the  richer  vibrations  of  the  refined  nervous 
system  of  the  present  day,'  '  the  unknown  sensations  of  an 
elect  mind.'  But  the  physician,  especially  if  he  have  devoted 
himself  to  the  special  study  of  nervous  and  mental  maladies, 
recognises  at  a  glance,  in  the  fin-de-siecle  disposition,  in  the 
tendencies  of  contemporary  art  and  poetry,  in  the  life  and 
conduct  of  the  men  who  write  mystic,  symbolic  and  *  de- 
cadent *  works,  and  the  attitude  taken  by  their  admirers  in  the 
tastes  and  cesthetic  instincts  of  fashionable  society,  the  conflu- 
ence of  two  well-defined  conditions  of  disease,  with  which  he  is 
quite  familiar,  viz.  degeneration  (degeneracy)  and  hysteria,  of 
which  the  minor  stages  are  designated  as  neurasthenia.  These 
two  conditions  of  the  organism  differ  from  each  other,  yet  have 
many  features  in  common,  and  frequently  occur  together ;  so 


i6  DEGENERATION 

that  it  is  easier  to  observe  them  in  their  composite  forms,  than 
each  in  isolation. 

The  conception  of  degeneracy,  which,  at  this  time,  obtains 
throughout  the  science  of  mental  disease,  was  first  clearly 
grasped  and  formulated  by  Morel.  In  his  principal  work — 
often  quoted,  but,  unfortunately,  not  sufficiently  read* — the 
following  definition  of  what  he  wishes  to  be  understood  by 
*  degeneracy '  is  given  by  this  distinguished  expert  in  mental 
pathology,  who  was,  for  a  short  time,  famous  in  Germany, 
even  outside  professional  circles. t 

*  The  clearest  notion  we  can  form  of  degeneracy  is  to  regard 
it  as  a  morbid  deviation  from  an  original  type.  This  deviation, 
even  if,  at  the  outset,  it  was  ever  so  slight,  contained  trans- 
missible elements  of  such  a  nature  that  anyone  bearing  in  him 
the  germs  becomes  more  and  more  incapable  of  fulfilling  his 
functions  in  the  world ;  and  mental  progress,  already  checked 
in  his  own  person,  finds  itself  menaced  also  in  his  descendants.' 

When  under  any  kind  of  noxious  influences  an  organism 
becomes  debihtated,  its  successors  will  not  resemble  the 
healthy,  normal  type  of  the  species,  with  capacities  for  develop- 
ment, but  will  form  a  new  sub-species,  which,  like  all  others, 
possesses  the  capacity  of  transmitting  to  its  offspring,  in  a 
continuously  increasing  degree,  its  peculiarities,  these  being 
morbid  deviations  from  the  normal  form — gaps  in  development, 
malformations  and  infirmities.  That  which  distinguishes 
degeneracy  from  the  formation  of  new  species  (phylogeny)  is, 
that  the  morbid  variation  does  not  continuously  subsist  and 
propagate  itself,  like  one  that  is  healthy,  but,  fortunately,  is 
soon  rendered  sterile,  and  after  a  few  generations  often  dies 
out  before  it  reaches  the  lowest  grade  of  organic  degrada- 
tion.J 

Degeneracy  betrays  itself  among  men  in   certain  physical 

*  Traite  des  De^endrescences  physiques,  intellectiielles  et  morales  de  V Espece 
humaifie  et  des  Causes  qui  produisent  ces  Varietes  maladives.  Par  le  Dr. 
B.  A.  Morel.     Paris,  1857,  p.  5. 

■j"  At  the  instigation  of  his  mistress  Ebergenyi,  Count  Chorinsky  had 
poisoned  his  wife,  previously  an  actress.  The  murderer  was  an  epileptic, 
and  a  'degenerate,'  in  the  Morelian  sense.  His  family  summoned  Morel 
from  Normandy  to  Munich,  for  the  purpose  of  proving  to  the  jury,  before 
whom  the  case  (1S68)  was  tried,  that  the  accused  was  irresponsible.  The 
latter  was  singularly  indignant  at  this;  and  the  Attorney-General  also  con- 
tradicted, in  the  most  emphatic  manner,  the  evidence  of  the  French  alienist, 
and  supported  himself  by  the  approbation  of  the  most  prominent  alienists 
in  Munich.  Chorinsky  was  pronounced  guilty.  Nevertheless,  only  a  short 
time  after  his  conviction,  insanity  developed  itself  in  him,  and  a  few  months 
later  he  died,  in  the  deepest  mental  darkness,  thus  justifying  all  the  previous 
assertions  of  the  French  physician,  who  had,  in  the  German  tongue,  demon- 
strated to  a  German  jury  the  incompetence  of  his  professional  confreres  in 
Munich. 

X  Morel,  op.  cit.^  p.  683. 


FIN-DE-Sl£:CLE  i; 

characteristics,  which  are  denominated  '  stigmata,'  or  brand- 
marks — an  unfortunate  term  derived  from  a  false  idea,  as  if 
degeneracy  were  necessarily  the  consequence  of  a  fault,  and 
the  indication  of  it  a  punishment.  Such  stigmata  consist 
of  deformities,  multiple  and  stunted  growths  in  the  first  line 
of  asymmetry,  the  unequal  development  of  the  two  halves 
of  the  face  and  cranium ;  then  imperfection  in  the  develop- 
ment of  the  external  ear,  which  is  conspicuous  for  its  enormous 
size,  or  protrudes  from  the  head,  like  a  handle,  and  the  lobe 
of  which  is  either  lacking  or  adhering  to  the  head,  and  the 
helix  of  which  is  not  involuted  ;  further,  squint-eyes,  hare- 
lips, irregularities  in  the  form  and  position  of  the  teeth  ;  pointed 
or  flat  palates,  webbed  or  supernumerary  fingers  (syn-  and 
poly-dactylia),  etc.  In  the  book  from  which  I  have  quoted, 
Morel  gives  a  list  of  the  anatomical  phenomena  of  degeneracy, 
which  later  observers  have  largely  extended.  In  particular, 
Lombroso*  has  conspicuously  broadened  our  knowledge  of 
stigmata,  but  he  apportions  them  merely  to  his  '  born  criminals  ' 
— a  limitation  which  from  the  very  scientific  standpoint  of 
Lombroso  himself  cannot  be  justified,  his  'born  criminals' 
being  nothing  but  a  subdivision  of  degenerates.  Feref  ex- 
presses this  very  emphatically  when  he  says,  '  Vice,  crime  and 
madness  are  only  distinguished  from  each  other  by  social 
prejudices.' 

There  might  be  a  sure  means  of  proving  that  the  applica- 
tion of  the  term  '  degenerates '  to  the  originators  of  all  the 
fin-de-siecle  movements  in  art  and  literature  is  not  arbitrary, 
that  it  is  no  baseless  conceit,  but  a  fact ;  and  that  would  be  a 
careful  physical  examination  of  the  persons  concerned,  and  an 
inquiry  into  their  pedigree.  In  almost  all  cases,  relatives 
would  be  met  with  who  were  undoubtedly  degenerate,  and 
one  or  more  stigmata  discovered  which  would  indisputably 
establish  the  diagnosis  of  '  Degeneration.'  Of  course,  from 
human  consideration,  the  result  of  such  an  inquiry  could  often 
not  be  made  public  ;  and  he  alone  would  be  convinced  who 
should  be  able  to  undertake  it  himself. 

Science,  however,  has  found,  together  with  these  physical 
stigmata,  others  of  a  mental  order,  which  betoken  degeneracy 
quite  as  clearly  as  the  former ;  and  they  allow  of  an  easy 
demonstration  from  all  the  vital  manifestations,  and,  in  par- 
ticular, from  all  the  works  of  degenerates,  so  that  it  is  not 
necessary  to  measure  the  cranium  of  an  author,  or  to  see  the 
lobe  of  a  painter's  ear,  in  order  to  recognise  the  fact  that  he 
belongs  to  the  class  of  degenerates. 

*  UUomo  delinquente  in  rapporto  alV  Antropologia,  Giitrispricdensa  e  nlle 
Discipline  carcerarie.  3a  edizione.  Torino,  1884,  p.  147  et  seq.  See  also 
Dr.  Ch.  Fdre,  '  La  Famille  nevropathique.'     Paris,  1894,  pp.  176-212. 

t  '  La  Famille  nevropathique,'  Archives  de  Nevrologie,  1884,  Nos.  19  et  20. 


i8  DEGENERATION 

Quite  a  number  of  different  designations  have  been  found 
for  these  persons.  Maudsley  and  Ball  call  them  '  Borderland 
dwellers ' — that  is  to  say,  dwellers  on  the  borderland  between 
reason  and  pronounced  madness.  Magnan  gives  to  them  the 
name  of  'higher  degenerates'  {degeneres  superieurs),  and  Lom- 
broso  speaks  of  '  mattoids '  (from  matto,  the  Italian  for  insane), 
and  '  graphomaniacs,'  under  which  he  classifies  those  semi- 
insane  persons  who  feel  a  strong  impulse  to  write.  In  spite, 
however,  of  this  variety  of  nomenclature,  it  is  a  question 
simply  of  one  single  species  of  individuals,  who  betray  their 
fellowship  by  the  similarity  of  their  mental  physiognomy. 

In  the  mental  development  of  degenerates,  we  meet  with  the 
same  irregularity  that  we  have  observed  in  their  physical 
growth.  The  asymmetry  of  face  and  cranium  finds,  as  it  were, 
its  counterpart  in  their  mental  faculties.  Some  of  the  latter 
are  completely  stunted,  others  morbidly  exaggerated.  That 
which  nearly  all  degenerates  lack  is  the  sense  of  morality  and 
of  right  and  wrong.  For  them  there  exists  no  law,  no  decency, 
no  modesty.  In  order  to  satisfy  any  momentary  impulse,  or 
inclination,  or  caprice,  they  commit  crimes  and  trespasses 
with  the  greatest  calmness  and  self-complacency,  and  do  not 
comprehend  that  other  persons  take  offence  thereat.  When 
this  phenomenon  is  present  in  a  high  degree,  we  speak  of 
*  moral  insanity  '  with  Maudsley  ;*  there  are,  nevertheless,  lower 
stages  in  which  the  degenerate  does  not,  perhaps,  himself 
commit  any  act  which  will  bring  him  into  conflict  with  the 
criminal  code,  but  at  least  asserts  the  theoretical  legitimacy 
of  crime  ;  seeks,  with  philosophically  sounding  fustian,  to 
prove  that  'good'  and  'evil,'  virtue  and  vice,  are  arbitrary 
distinctions  ;  goes  into  raptures  over  evildoers  and  their  deeds  ; 
professes  to  discover  beauties  in  the  lowest  and  most  repulsive 
things  ;  and  tries  to  awaken  interest  in,  and  so-called  '  com- 
prehension '  of,  every  bestiality.  The  two  psychological  roots 
of  moral  insanity,  in  all  its  degrees  of  development,  are,  firstly, 
unbounded   egoism, t   and,    secondly,  impulsiveness | — i.e.,    in- 

*  See,  on  this  subject,  in  particular,  Krafft  Ebing,  Die  Lehre  voni 
moralischen  Wahnsinn,  1871  ;  H.  Maudsley,  Responsibility  in  Mental 
Disease^  International  Scientific  Series  ;  and  Ch.  Fei^,  Degeneresce7ice  et 
Criminalite,  Paris,  1888. 

t  J.  Roubinovitch,  Hystirie  male  et  D^ge'nt'rescefice ;  Paris,  1890,  p.  62  : 
'The  society  which  surrounds  him  (the  degenerate)  always  remains  strange 
to  him.     He  knows  nothing,  and  takes  interest  in  nothing  but  himself.' 

Legrain,  Dn  Delire  chez  les  D^generh j  Paris,  1886,  p.  10  :  'Tlie  patient  is 
.  .  .  the  plaything  of  his  passions  ;  he  is  carried  away  by  his  impulses,  and 
has  only  one  care — to  satisfy  his  appetites.'  P.  27  :  '  They  are  egoistical, 
arrogant,  conceited,  self-infatuated,'  etc. 

X  Henry  Colin,  Essai  stcr  VEtat  ine7ital  des  HystMques;  Paris,  1890,  p.  59  : 
'Two  great  facts  control  the  being  of  the  hereditary  degenerate  :  obsession 
[the  tyrannical  domination  of  one  thought  from  which  a  man  cannot  free 


FIN-DE-SliCLE  19 

ability  to  resist  a  sudden  impulse  to  any  deed  ;  and  these 
characteristics  also  constitute  the  chief  intellectual  stigmata  of 
degenerates.  In  the  following  sections  of  this  work,  I  shall 
find  occasion  to  show  on  what  organic  grounds,  and  in  con- 
sequence of  what  peculiarities  of  their  brain  and  nervous 
system,  degenerates  are  necessarily  egoistical  and  impulsive. 
In  these  introductory  remarks  I  would  wish  only  to  point  out 
the  stigma  itself. 

Another  mental  stigma  of  degenerates  is  their  emotionalism. 
Morel*  has  even  wished  to  make  this  peculiarity  their  chief 
characteristic — erroneously,  it  seems  to  me,  for  it  is  present 
in  the  same  degree  among  hysterics,  and,  indeed,  is  to  be  found 
in  perfectly  healthy  persons,  who,  from  any  transient  cause, 
such  as  illness,  exhaustion,  or  any  mental  shock,  have  been 
temporarily  weakened.  Nevertheless  it  is  a  phenomenon  rarely 
absent  in  a  degenerate.  He  laughs  until  he  sheds  tears,  or 
M^eeps  copiously  without  adequate  occasion ;  a  commonplace 
line  of  poetry  or  of  prose  sends  a  shudder  down  his  back  ;  he 
falls  into  raptures  before  indifferent  pictures  or  statues  ;  and 
music  especially,t  even  the  most  insipid  and  least  com- 
mendable, arouses  in  him  the  most  vehement  emotions. 
He  is  quite  proud  of  being  so  vibrant  a  musical  instrument, 
and  boasts  that  where  the  Philistine  remains  completely  cold, 
he  feels  his  inner  self  confounded,  the  depths  of  his  being 
broken  up,  and  the  bliss  of  the  Beautiful  possessing  him  to  the 
tips  of  his  fingers.  His  excitability  appears  to  him  a  mark  of 
superiority ;  he  believes  himself  to  be  possessed  by  a  peculiar 
insight  lacking  in  other  mortals,  and  he  is  fain  to  despise  the 
vulgar  herd  for  the  dulness  and  narrowness  of  their  minds. 
The  unhappy  creature  does  not  suspect  that  he  is  conceited 
about  a  disease  and  boasting  of  a  derangement  of  the  mind ; 
and  certain  silly  critics,  when,  through  fear  of  being  pronounced 
deficient  in  comprehension,  they  make  desperate  efforts  to 
share  the  emotions  of  a  degenerate  in  regard  to  some  insipid 
or  ridiculous  production,  or  when  they  praise  in  exaggerated 
expressions  the  beauties  which  the  degenerate  asserts  he  finds 
therein,  are  unconsciously  simulating  one'  of  the  stigmata  of 
semi-insanity. 

Besides  moral  insanity  and 'emotionalism,  there  is  to  be 
observed  in  the  degenerate  a  condition  of  mental  weakness  and 
despondenc}^,  which,  according  to  the  circumstances  of  his  life, 
assumes  the  form  of  pessimism,  a  vague  fear  of  all  men,  and  of 

himself;  Westphal  has  created  for  this  the  good  term  'Zwangs-Vorstellung,' 
i.e.,  coercive  idea]  and  impulsion — both  irresistible,' 

*  Morel,  '  Du  D^lire  6motif,'  Archives  ge'ne'rales^  6  serie,  vol.  vii.,  pp.  385 
and  530.     See  also  Roubinovitch,  op.  ciL,  p.  53. 

I  J.  Roubinovitch,  op.  cit.,  p.  68  :  '  Music  excites  him  keenly 


20  DEGENERATION 

the  entire  phenomenon  of  the  universe,  or  self-abhorrence. 
*  These  patients,'  says  Morel,*  '  feel  perpetually  compelled  .  .  . 
to  commiserate  themselves,  to  sob,  to  repeat  with  the  most 
desperate  monotony  the  same  questions  and  words.  They 
have  delirious  presentations  of  ruin  and  damnation,  and  all 
sorts  of  imaginary  fears.'  *  Ennui  never  quits  me,'  said  a 
patient  of  this  kind,  whose  case  Roubinovitchf  describes, 
'  ennui  of  myself.'  '  Among  moral  stigmata,'  says  the  same 
author,!  'there  are  also  to  be  specified  those  undefinable 
apprehensions  manifested  by  degenerates  when  they  see,  smell, 
or  touch  any  object.'  And  he  further§  calls  to  notice  *  their 
unconscious  fear  of  everything  and  everyone.'  In  this  picture 
of  the  sufferer  from  melancholia  ;  downcast,  sombre,  despairing 
of  himself  and  the  world,  tortured  by  fear  of  the  Unknown, 
menaced  by  undefined  but  dreadful  dangers,  we  recognise  in 
every  detail  the  man  of  the  Dusk  of  the  Nations  and  the 
fin-de-si'ecle  frame  of  mind,  described  in  the  first  chapter. 

"With  this  characteristic  dejectedness  of  the  degenerate, 
there  is  combined,  as  a  rule,  a  disinclination  to  action  of  any 
kind,  attaining  possibly  to  abhorrence  of  activity  and  power- 
lessness  to  will  {ahoidia).  Now,  it  is  a  peculiarity  of  the 
human  mind,  known  to  every  psychologist,  that,  inasmuch 
as  the  law  of  causality  governs  a  man's  whole  thought,  he  im- 
putes a  rational  basis  to  all  his  own  decisions.  This  was 
prettily  expressed  by  Spinoza  when  he  said  :  *  If  a  stone  flung 
by  a  human  hand  could  think,  it  would  certainly  imagine  that 
it  flew  because  it  wished  to  fly.'  Many  mental  conditions  and 
operations  of  which  we  become  conscious  are  the  result  of 
causes  which  do  not  reach  our  consciousness.  In  this  case  we 
fabricate  causes  a  posteriori  for  them,  satisfying  our  mental 
need  of  distinct  causality,  and  we  have  no  trouble  in  persuad- 
ing ourselves  that  we  have  now  truly  explained  them.  The 
degenerate  who  shuns  action,  and  is  without  will-power,  has  no 
suspicion  that  his  incapacity  for  action  is  a  consequence  of  his 
inherited  deficiency  of  brain.  He  deceives  himself  into  believing 
that  he  despises  action  from  free  determination,  and  takes 
pleasure  in  inactivity  ;  and,  in  order  to  justify  himself  in  his 
own  eyes,  he  constructs  a  philosophy  of  renunciation  and  of 
contempt  for  the  world  and  men,  asserts  that  he  has  convinced 
himself  of  the  excellence  of  Quietism,  calls  himself  with  con- 
summate self-consciousness  a  Buddhist,  and  praises  Nirvana 
in  poetically  eloquent  phrases  as  the  highest  and  worthiest 
ideal  of  the  human  mind.  The  degenerate  and  insane  are 
the   predestined   disciples   of    Schopenhauer   and    Hartmann, 

*  Morel,   'Du    D^lire   panophobique   des   Ali^n^s   gdmisseurs,'  Annales 
midico-psychologiques,  1 87 1. 
t  Roubinovitch,  op.  cit.,  p.  28.  %  Ibid.,  p.  37.  §  Id/d.,  p.  66. 


FIN-DE-Sl£:CLE  at 

and  need  only  to  acquire  a  knowledge  of  Buddhism  to  become 
converts  to  it. 

With  the  incapacity  for  action  there  is  connected  the  pre- 
dilection for  inane  reverie.  The  degenerate  is  not  in  a  con- 
dition to  fix  his  attention  long,  or  indeed  at  all,  on  any  subject, 
and  is  equally  incapable  of  correctly  grasping,  ordering,  or 
elaborating  into  ideas  and  judgments  the  impressions  of  the 
external  world  conveyed  to  his  distracted  consciousness  by  his 
defectively  operating  senses.  It  is  easier  and  more  convenient 
for  him  to  allow  his  brain-centres  to  produce  semi-lucid, 
nebulously  blurred  ideas  and  inchoate  embryonic  thoughts, 
and  to  surrender  himself  to  the  perpetual  obfuscation  of  a 
boundless,  aimless,  and  shoreless  stream  of  fugitive  ideas; 
and  he  rarely  rouses  himself  to  the  painful  attempt  to  check  or 
counteract  the  capricious,  and,  as  a  rule,  purely  mechanical 
associations  of  ideas  and  succession  of  images,  and  bring  under 
discipline  the  disorderly  tumult  of  his  fluid  presentations.  On 
the  contrary,  he  rejoices  in  his  faculty  of  imagination,  which  he 
contrasts  with  the  insipidity  of  the  Philistine,  and  devotes  him- 
self with  predilection  to  all  sorts  of  unlicensed  pursuits  per- 
mitted by  the  unshackled  vagabondage  of  his  mind  ;  while  he 
cannot  endure  well-ordered  civil  occupations,  requiring  atten- 
tion and  constant  heed  to  reality.  He  calls  this  '  having  an 
idealist  temperament,'  ascribes  to  himself  irresistible  sesthetic 
propinquities,  and  proudly  styles  himself  an  artist.* 

We  will  briefly  mention  some  peculiarities  frequently  mani- 
fested by  a  degenerate.  He  is  tormented  by  doubts,  seeks  for 
the  basis  of  all  phenomena,  especially  those  whose  first  causes 
are  completely  inaccessible  to  us,  and  is  unhappy  when  his 
inquiries  and  ruminations  lead,  as  is  natural,  to  no  result.t 
He  is  ever  supplying  new  recruits  to  the  army  of  system- 
inventing  metaphysicians,  profound  expositors  of  the  riddle  of 
the  universe,  seekers  for  the  phflosopher's  stone,  the  squaring 
of  the  circle  and  perpetual  motion. |  These  last  three  sub- 
jects have  such  a  special  attraction  for  him,  that  the  Patent 
Office  at  Washington  is  forced  to  keep  on  hand  printed  replies 
to  the  numberless  memorials  in  which  patents  are  constantly 

*  Charcot,  '  Legons  du  Mardi  k  la  Salpetrifere,'  Policlinique^  Paris,  1890, 
2^  partie,  p.  392  :  '  This  person  [the  invalid  mentioned]  is  a  performer 
at  fairs  ;  he  calls  himself  "artist."  The  truth  is  that  his  art  consists  in 
personating  a  "  wild  man  "  in  fair-booths.' 

t  Legrain,  op.  cit,  p.  73  :  '  The  patients  are  perpetually  tormented  by  a 
muhituae  of  questions  which  invade  their  minds,  and  to  which  they  can  give 
no  answer  ;  inexpressible  moral  sufferings  result  from  this  incapacity.  Doubt 
envelops  every  possible  subject  : — metaphysics,  theology,  etc' 

X  Magnan,  '  Considdrations  sur  la  Folie  des  H(^rddiiaires  ou  Ddgdnerds,' 
Progrks  medical,  1886,  p.  mo  (in  the  report  of  a  medical  case)  :  '  He  also 
thought  of  seeking  for  the  philosopher's  stone,  and  of  making  gold.' 


22  DEGENERATION 

demanded  for  the  solution  of  these  chimerical  problems.  In 
view  of  Lombroso's  researches,*  it  can  scarcely  be  doubted 
that  the  writings  and  acts  of  revolutionists  and  anarchists  are 
also  attributable  to  degeneracy.  The  degenerate  is  incapable 
of  adapting  himself  to  existing  circumstances.  This  incapacity, 
indeed,  is  an  indication  of  morbid  variation  in  every  species, 
and  probably  a  primary  cause  of  their  sudden  extinction.  He 
therefore  rebels  against  conditions  and  views  of  things  which 
he  necessarily  feels  to  be  painful,  chiefly  because  they  impose 
upon  him  the  duty  of  self-control,  of  which  he  is  incapable  on 
account  of  his  organic  weakness  of  will.  Thus  he  becomes  an 
improver  of  the  world,  and  devises  plans  for  making  mankind 
happy,  which,  without  exception,  are  conspicuous  quite  as 
much  by  their  fervent  philanthropy,  and  often  pathetic  sincerity, 
as  by  their  absurdity  and  monstrous  ignorance  of  all  real 
relations. 

Finally,  a  cardinal  mark  of  degeneration  which  I  have  re- 
served to  the  last,  is  mysticism.  Colin  says  :i-  '  Of  all  the 
delirious  manifestations  peculiar  to  the  hereditarily-afflicted, 
none  indicates  the  condition  more  clearly,  we  think,  than 
mystical  delirium,  or,  when  the  malady  has  not  reached  this 
point,  the  being  constantly  occupied  with  mystical  and  religious 
questions,  an  exaggerated  piety,  etc'  I  will  not  here  multiply 
evidence  and  quotations.  In  the  following  books,  where  the 
art  and  poetry  of  the  times  are  treated  of,  I  shall  find  occasion 
to  show  the  reader  that  no  aifference  exists  between  these 
tendencies  and  the  religious  manias  observed  in  nearly  all 
degenerates  and  sufferers  from  hereditary  mental  taint. 

I  have  enumerated  the  most  important  features  characterizing 
the  mental  condition  of  the  degenerate.  The  reader  can  now 
judge  for  himself  whether  or  not  the  diagnosis  '  degeneration  ' 
is  applicable  to  the  originators  of  the  new  aesthetic  tendencies. 
It  must  not  for  that  matter  be  supposed  that  degeneration  is 
synonymous  with  absence  of  talent.  Nearly  all  the  inquirers 
who  have  had  degenerates  under  their  observation  expressly 
establish  the  contrary.  'The  degenerate,'  says  Legrain,|  'may 
be  a  genius.  A  badly  balanced  mind  is  susceptible  of  the 
highest  conceptions,  while,  on  the  other  hand,  one  meets  in 
the  same  mind  with  traits  of  meanness  and  pettiness  aU  the 
more  striking  from  the  fact  that  they  co-exist  with  the  most 
brilliant  qualities.'    We  shall  find  this  reservation  in  all  authors 

*  Lombroso,  'La  Physionomie  des  Anarchistes,'  Noiivelle  Revue,  May  15, 
1891,  p.  227  :  '  They  [the  anarchists]  frequently  have  those  characteristics 
of  degeneracy  which  are  common  to  criminals  and  lunatics,  fi)r  they  are 
anomalies,  and  bear  hereditary  taints.'  See  also  the  same  author's  Fazzi  ed 
Ajiomali.     Turin,  1884. 

t  Colin,  op.  ciL,  p.  154.  {  Legrain,  op.  cit.,  p.  11. 


FIN-DE-Sli:CLE  23 

who  have  contributed  to  the  natural  history  of  the  degenerate. 

*  As    regards   their   intellect,  they   can/   says    Roubinovitch,* 

*  attain  to  a  high  degree  of  development,  but  from  a  moral  point 
of  view  their  existence  is  completely  deranged.  ...  A  degenerate 
will  employ  his  brilhant  faculties  quite  as  well  in  the  service  of 
some  grand  object  as  irl  the  satisfaction  of  the  basest  pro- 
pensities.' Lombrosof  has  cited  a  large  number  of  undoubted 
geniuses  who  were  equally  undoubted  mattoids,  graphomaniacs, 
or  pronounced  lunatics ;  and  the  utterance  of  a  French  savant, 
Guerinsen,  '  Genius  is  a  disease  of  the  nerves,'  has  become  a 
'  winged  word.'  This  expression  was  imprudent,  for  it  gave 
ignorant  babblers  a  pretext,  and  apparently  a  right,  to  talk  of 
exaggeration,  and  to  contemn  experts  in  nervous  and  mental 
diseases,  because  they  professedly  saw  a  lunatic  in  everyone 
who  ventured  to  be  something  more  than  the  most  ordinary, 
characterless,  average  being.  Science  does  not  assert  that 
every  genius  is  a  lunatic  ;  there  are  some  geniuses  of  super- 
abundant power  whose  high  privilege  consists  in  the  possession 
of  one  or  other  extraordinarily  developed  faculty,  without  the 
rest  of  their  faculties  falling  short  of  the  average  standard. 
Just  as  little,  naturally,  is  every  lunatic  a  genius ;  most  of 
them,  even  if  we  disregard  idiots  of  different  degrees,  are  much 
rather  pitiably  stupid  and  incapable  ;  but  in  many,  nay,  in 
abundant  cases,  the  'higher  degenerate'  of  Magnan,  just  as 
he  occasionally  exhibits  gigantic  bodily  stature  or  the  dispro- 
portionate growth  of  particular  parts,  has  some  mental  gift 
exceptionally  developed  at  the  cost,  it  is  true,  of  the  remaining 
faculties,  which  are  wholly  or  partially  atrophied. J  It  is  this 
which  enables  the  well-informed  to  distinguish  at  the  first 
glance  between  the  sane  genius,  and  the  highly,  or  even  the 
most  highly,  gifted  degenerate.  Take  from  the  former  the 
special  capacity  through  which  he  becomes  a  genius,  and  there 
still  remains  a  capable,  often  conspicuously  intelligent,  clever, 
moral,  and  judicious  man,  who  will  hold  his  ground  with 
propriety  in  our  social  mechanism.  Let  the  same  be  tried  in 
the  case  of  a  degenerate,  and  there  remains  only  a  criminal 
or  madman,  for  whom  healthy  humanity  can  find  no  use.     If 

*  Roubinovitch,  op.  cit.^  p.  33. 

•{•  Lombroso,  Genie  icnd  h'rsinnj  German  translation  by  A.  Courth. 
Reclam's  Universal  Bibliothek.,  Bde.  2313-16.  See  also  in  particular,  J.  F. 
Nisbet,  The  Insanity  of  Gejiius.     London,  1891. 

J  Falret,  Annates  inedico-psychologiqiies^  1867,  p.  76  :  'From  their  child- 
hood they  usually  display  a  very  unequal  development  of  their  mental 
faculties,  which,  weak  m  their  entirety,  are  remarkable  for  certain  special 
aptitudes;  they  have  shown  an  extraordinary  gift  for  drawing,  arithmetic, 
music,  sculpture,  or  mechanics  .  .  .  and,  together  with  those  specially 
developed  aptitudes,  obtaining  for  them  the  fame  of  "  infant  phenomena," 
they  for  the  most  part  give  evidence  of  very  great  deficiencies  in  theif 
intelligence,  and  of  a  radical  debility  in  the  remaining  faculties.' 


24  DEGENERATION 

Goetlie  had  never  written  a  line  of  verse,  he  would,  all  the 
same,  have  still  remained  a  man  of  the  world,  of  good  principles, 
a  fine  art  connoisseur,  a  judicious  collector,  a  keen  observer  of 
nature.  Let  us,  on  the  contrary,  imagine  a  Schopenhauer  who 
had  written  no  astounding  books,  and  we  should  have  before 
us  only  a  repulsive  lusus  naturcB,  whose  morals  would  necessarily 
exclude  him  from  all  respectable  society,  and  whose  fixed  idea 
that  he  was  a  victim  of  persecution  would  point  him  out  as  a 
subject  for  a  madhouse.  The  lack  of  harmony,  the  absence 
of  balance,  the  singular  incapacity  of  usefully  applying,  or  deriv- 
ing satisfaction  from,  their  own  special  faculty  among  highly- 
gifted  degenerates,  strikes  every  healthy  censor  who  does  not 
allow  himself  to  be  prejudiced  by  the  noisy  admiration  of 
critics,  themselves  degenerates :  and  will  always  prevent  his 
mistaking  the  mattoid  for  the  same  exceptional  man  who  opens 
out  new  paths  for  humanity  and  leads  it  to  higher  develop- 
ments. I  do  not  share  Lombroso's  opinion*  that  highly-gifted 
degenerates  are  an  active  force  in  the  progress  of  mankind. 
They  corrupt  and  delude  ;  they  do,  alas !  frequently  exercise  a 
deep  influence,  but  this  is  always  a  baneful  one.  It  may  not 
be  at  once  remarked,  but  it  will  reveal  itself  subsequently.  If 
cotemporaries  do  not  recognise  it,  the  historian  of  morals 
will  point  it  out  a  posteriori.  They,  likewise,  are  leading  men 
along  the  paths  they  themselves  have  found  to  new  goals;  but 
these  goals  are  abysses  or  waste  places.  They  are  guides  to 
swamps  like  will-o'-the-wisps,  or  to  ruin  like  the  ratcatcher 
of  Hammelin.  Observers  lay  stress  on  their  unnatural 
sterility.  '  They  are,'  says  Tarabaud,t  '  cranks  ;  wrongheaded, 
unbalanced,  incapable  creatures  ;  they  belong  to  the  class  of 
M'hom  it  may  not  be  said  that  they  have  no  mind,  but  whose 
mind  produces  nothing.'  'A  common  type,'  writes  Legrain,J 
'unites  them: — weakness  of  judgment  and  unequal  develop- 
ment of  mental  powers.  .  .  .  Their  conceptions  are  never  of  a 
high  order.  They  are  incapable  of  great  thoughts  and  prolific 
ideas.  This  fact  forms  a  peculiar  contrast  to  the  frequently 
excessive  development  of  their  powers  of  imagination.'  '  If  they 
are  painters,'  we  read  in  Lombroso,§  'then  their  predominant 
attribute  will  be  the  colour-sense  ;  they  will  be  decorative.  If 
they  are  poets,  they  will  be  rich  in  rhyme,  brilliant  in  style, 
but  barren  of  thought  ;  sometimes  they  will  be  "  decadents."  ' 
Such  are  the  qualities  of  the  most  gifted  of  those  who  are 

*  Nouvelle  Revue,  July  15,  1891. 

t  Tarabaud,  Des  Rapports  de  la  Deghtirsscence  mentale  et  de  VHysterie. 
Paris,  1888,  p.  12. 

X  Legrain,  op.  cit,  pp.  24  and  26. 

§  Lombroso,  Nouvelles  rechenhes  de  Psychiatrie  et  d* Anthropologie 
criminelle.     Paris,  1892,  p.  74. 


FIN-DE-SIECLE 


25 


discovering  new  paths,  and  are  proclaimed  by  enthusiastic 
followers  as  the  guides  to  the  promised  land  of  the  future. 
Among  them  degenerates  and  mattoids  predominate.  The 
second  of  the  above-mentioned  diagnoses,  on  the  contrary, 
apphes  for  the  most  part  to  the  multitude  who  admire  these 
individuals  and  swear  by  them,  who  imitate  the  fashions  they 
design,  and  take  delight  in  the  extravagances  described  in  the 
previous  chapter.  In  their  case  we  have  to  deal  chiefly  with 
hysteria,  or  neurasthenia. 

For  reasons  which  will  be  elucidated  in  the  next  chapter, 
hysteria  has  hitherto  been  less  studied  in  Germany  than  in 
France,  where,  more  than  elsewhere,  it  has  formed  a  subject 
of  earnest  inquiry.  We  owe  what  we  know  of  it  almost 
exclusively  to  French  investigators.  The  copious  treatises 
of  Axenfeld,*  Richer,t  and  in  particular  Gilles  de  la  Tourette,J 
adequately  comprise  our  present  knowledge  of  this  malady ; 
and  I  shall  refer  to  these  works  when  I  enumerate  the 
symptoms  chiefly  indicative  of  hysteria. 

Among  the  hysterical — and  it  must  not  be  thought  that  these 
are  met  with  exclusively,  or  even  preponderantly,  among  females, 
for  they  are  quite  as  often,  perhaps  oftener,  found  among  males§ 
• — among  the  hysterical,  as  among  the  degenerate,  the  first  thing 
which  strikes  us  is  an  extraordinary  emotionalism.  *  The  lead- 
ing characteristic  of  the  hysterical,'  says  Cohn,||  *  is  the  dispro- 
portionate impressionability  of  their  psychic  centres.  .  .  .  They 
are,  above  all  things,  impressionable.'  From  this  primary 
peculiarity  proceeds  a  second  quite  as  remarkable  and  im- 
portant— the  exceeding  ease  with  which  they  can  be  made  to 
yield  to  suggestion.^  The  earlier  observers  always  mentioned 
the  boundless  mendacity  of  the  hysterical;  growing,  indeed,  quite 
indignant  at  it,  and  making  it  the  most  prominent  mark  of  the 
mental  condition  of  such  patients.  They  were  mistaken.  The 
hysterical  subject  does  not  consciously  lie.  He  believes  in  the 
truth  of  his  craziest  inventions.  The  morbid  mobility  of  his 
mind,  the  excessive  excitability  of  his  imagination,  conveys  to 
his  consciousness  all  sorts  of  queer  and  senseless  ideas.  He 
suggests  to  himself  that  these  ideas  are  founded  on  true  per- 
ceptions, and  believes  in  the  truth  of  his  foolish  inventions  until 

*  Axenfeld,  Des  Ne'vroses.  2  vols.,  2^  Edition,  revue  et  compl^tee  par  le 
Dr.  Huchard.     Paris,  1879. 

•f-  Paul  K\c\i^x,  Etudes  clmiques  stcr  V Hystdro-dpilepsie  ou  Gra7ide  Hysteric. 
Paris,  1891. 

X  Gilles  de  la  Tourette,  Traitd  cli7iiqice  et  therapeiitique  de  VHysterie. 
Paris,  1891. 

§  Paul  Michaut,  Contribution  d.  Vlltude  des  Manifestations  de  VHysterii 
chez  V Homme.     Paris,  1890. 

II  Colin,  op.  cit.,  p.  14. 

IT  Gilles  de  la  Tourette,  op.  cit.^  p.  548  et  passim. 


26  DEGENERATION 

a  new  suggestion — perhaps  his  own,  perhaps  that  of  another 
person — has  ejected  the  earlier  one.  A  result  of  the  suscepti- 
bility of  the  hysterical  subject  to  suggestion  is  his  irresistible 
passion  for  imitation,'^  and  the  eagerness  with  which  he  yields 
to  all  the  suggestions  of  writers  and  artists.f  When  he  sees  a 
picture,  he  wants  to  become  like  it  in  attitude  and  dress  ;  when 
he  reads  a  book,  he  adopts  its  views  blindly.  He  takes  as  a 
pattern  the  heroes  of  the  novels  which  he  has  in  his  hand  at 
the  moment,  and  infuses  himself  into  the  characters  moving 
before  him  on  the  stage. 

Added  to  this  emotionalism  and  susceptibility  to  sugges- 
tion is  a  love  of  self  never  met  with  in  a  sane  person  in  any- 
thing like  the  same  degree.  The  hysterical  person's  own  '  I ' 
towers  up  before  his  inner  vision,  and  so  completely  fills  his 
mental  horizon  that  it  conceals  the  whole  of  the  remaining 
universe.  He  cannot  endure  that  others  should  ignore  him. 
He  desires  to  be  as  important  to  his  fellow-men  as  he  is  to 
himself  *  An  incessant  need  pursues  and  governs  the  hysterical 
— to  busy  those  about  them  with  themselves.' |  A  means  of 
satisfying  this  need  is  the  fabrication  of  stories  by  which  they 
become  interesting.  Hence  come  the  adventurous  occurrences 
which  often  enough  occupy  the  police  and  the  reports  of  the 
daily  press.  In  the  busiest  thoroughfare  the  hysterical  person  is 
set  upon,  robbed,  maltreated  and  wounded,  dragged  to  a  distant 
place,  and  left  to  die.  He  picks  himself  up  painfully,  and 
informs  the  police.  He  can  show  the  wounds  on  his  body. 
He  gives  all  the  details.  And  there  is  not  a  single  word  of 
truth  in  the  whole  story;  it  is  all  dreamt  and  imagined.  He 
has  himself  inflicted  his  wounds  in  order  for  a  short  time  to 
become  the  centre  of  public  attention.  In  the  lower  stages  of 
hysteria  this  need  of  making  a  sensation  assumes  more  harm- 
less forms.  It  displays  itself  in  eccentricities  of  dress  and 
behaviour.  *  Other  hysterical  subjects  are  passionately  fond  of 
glaring  colours  and  extravagant  forms ;  they  wish  to  attract 
attention  and  make  themselves  talked  about.'§ 

It  is  certainly  unnecessary  to  draw  the  reader's  attention  in 
a  special  manner  to  the  complete  coincidence  of  this  clinical 
picture  of  hysteria  with  the  description  of  the  peculiarities 
of  the  fin-de-siecle  public,  and  to  the  fact  that  in  the  former  we 
meet  with  all  the  features  made  familiar  to  us  by  the  con- 
sideration of  contemporary  phenomena ;  in  particular  with  the 
passion  for  imitating  in  externals — in  dress,  attitude,  fashion  of 
the  hair  and  beard — the  figures  in  old  and  modern  pictures, 
and  the  feverish  effort,  through  any  sort  of  singularity,  to  make 

*  Colin,  o/>.  cit.,  pp.  15  and  16. 

t  Gilles  de  la  Tourette,  op.  cii.^  p.  493.  X  ibid.^i  p.  30^ 

§  Legrain,  op.  cit.,  p.  39. 


FIN-DE-SltCLE  27 

themselves  talked  about.  The  observation  of  pronounced  cases 
of  degeneration  and  hysteria,  whose  condition  makes  them 
necessary  subjects  for  medical  treatment,  gives  us  also  the  key 
to  the  comprehension  of  subordinate  details  in  the  fashions 
of  the  day.  The  present  rage  for  collecting,  the  piling  up,  in 
dwellings,  of  aimless  bric-a-brac,  which  does  not  become  any 
more  useful  or  beautiful  by  being  fondly  called  bibelots,  appear 
to  us  in  a  completely  new  light  when  we  know  that  Magnan 
has  established  the  existence  of  an  irresistible  desire  among 
the  degenerate  to  accumulate  useless  trifles.  It  is  so  firmly 
imprinted  and  so  peculiar  that  Magnan  declares  it  to  be  a 
stigma  of  degeneration,  and  has  invented  for  it  the  name  '  onio- 
mania,'  or  '  buying  craze.'  This  is  not  to  be  confounded  with 
the  desire  for  buying,  which  possesses  those  who  are  in  the  first 
stage  of  general  paralysis.  The  purchases  of  these  persons 
are  due  to  their  delusion  as  to  their  own  greatness.  They  lay 
in  great  supplies  because  they  fancy  themselves  millionaires. 
The  oniomaniac,  on  the  contrary,  neither  buys  enormous 
quantities  of  one  and  the  same  thing,  nor  is  the  price  a  matter 
of  indifference  to  him  as  with  the  paralytic.  H6  is  simply 
unable  to  pass  by  any  lumber  without  feeling  an  impulse  to 
acquire  it. 

The  curious  style  of  certain  recent  painters — '  impressionists,' 
'  stipplers,'  or  'mosaists,'  'papilloteurs  '  or  '  quiverers,'  'roaring  ' 
colourists,  dyers  in  gray  and  faded  tints — becomes  at  once  intel- 
ligible to  us  if  we  keep  in  view  the  researches  of  the  Charcot 
school  into  the  visual  derangements  in  degeneration  and 
hysteria.  The  painters  who  assure  us  that  they  are  sincere, 
and  reproduce  nature  as  they  see  it,  speak  the  truth.  The 
degenerate  artist  who  suffers  from  nystagnms,  or  trembling  of  the 
eyeball,  will,  in  fact,  perceive  the  phenomena  of  nature  trem- 
bling, restless,  devoid  of  firm  outline,  and,  if  he  is  a  conscientious 
painter,  will  give  us  pictures  reminding  us  of  the  mode  practised 
by  the  draughtsmen  of  the  Fliegende  Blatter  when  they  repre- 
sent a  wet  dog  shaking  himself  vigorously.  If  his  pictures  fail 
to  produce  a  comic  effect,  it  is  only  because  the  attentive 
beholder  reads  in  them  the  desperate  effort  to  reproduce  fully 
an  impression  incapable  of  reproduction  by  the  expedients  of 
the  painter's  art  as  devised  by  men  of  normal  vision. 

There  is  hardly  a  hysterical  subject  whose  retina  is  not  partly 
insensitive.*  As  a  rule  the  insensitive  parts  are  connected,  and 
include  the  outer  half  of  the  retina.  In  these  cases  the  field  of 
vision  is  more  or  less  contracted,  and  appears  to  him  not  as 
it  does  to  the  normal  man — as  a  circle — but  as  a  picture 
bordered  by  whimsically  zigzag  lines.      Often,  however,    the 

*  Dr.  Emile  Berger,  Les  Maladies  des  Yeux  dans  leurs  rapports  avec  la 
Pathologie  general.     Paris,  1892,  p.  12()  et  seq. 


28  DEGENERATION 

insensitive  parts  are  not  connected,  but  are  scattered  in  isolated 
spots  over  the  entire  retina.  Then  the  sufferer  will  have  all 
sorts  of  gaps  in  his  field  of  vision,  producing  strange  eff-ects, 
and  if  he  paints  what  he  sees,  he  will  be  inclined  to  place  in 
juxtaposition  larger  or  smaller  points  or  spots  which  are  com- 
pletely or  partially  dissociated.  The  insensitiveness  need  not 
be  complete,  and  may  exist  only  in  the  case  of  single  colours, 
or  of  ail.  If  the  sensitiveness  is  completely  lost  ('  achroma- 
topsy ')  he  then  sees  everything  in  a  uniform  gray,  but  perceives 
differences  in  the  degree  of  lustre.  Hence  the  picture  of  nature 
presents  itself  to  him  as  a  copper-plate  or  a  pencil  drawing, 
where  the  effect  of  the  absent  colours  is  replaced  by  differences 
in  the  intensity  of  light,  by  greater  or  less  depth  and  power  of 
the  white  and  black  portions.  Painters  who  are  insensitive 
to  colour  will  naturally  have  a  predilection  for  neutral-toned 
painting ;  and  a  public  suffering  from  the  same  malady  will 
find  nothing  objectionable  in  falsely-coloured  pictures.  But  if, 
besides  the  whitewash  of  a  Puvis  de  Chavannes,  obliterating 
all  colours  equally,  fanatics  are  found  for  the  screaming  yellow, 
blue,  and  red  of  a  Besnard,  this  also  has  a  cause,  revealed  to 
us  by  clinical  science.  *  Yellow  and  blue,'  Gilles  dela  Tourette* 
teaches  us,  '  are  peripheral  colours '  {i.e.,  they  are  seen  with 
the  outerxTiOst  parts  of  the  retina)  ;  '  they  are,  therefore,  the 
last  to  be  perceived '  (if  the  sensitiveness  for  the  remaining 
colours  is  destroyed).  'These  are  .  .  .  the  very  two  colours 
the  sensations  of  which  in  hysterical  ambl3'opia  [dulness  of 
vision]  endure  the  longest.  In  many  cases,  however,  it  is  the 
red,  and  not  the  blue,  which  vanishes  last.' 

Red  has  also  another  peculiarity  explanatory  of  the  predilec- 
tion shown  for  it  by  the  hysterical.  The  experiments  of  Binett 
have  established  that  the  impressions  conveyed  to  the  brain  by 
the  sensory  nerves  exercise  an  important  influence  on  the  species 
and  strength  of  the  excitation  distributed  by  the  brain  to  the 
motor  nerves.  Many  sense-impressions  operate  enervatingly 
and  inhibitively  on  the  movements  ;  others,  on  the  contrary, 
make  these  more  powerful,  rapid  and  active  ;  they  are  '  dyna- 
mogenGus,'  or  '  force-producing.'  As  a  feeling  of  pleasure  is 
always  connected  with  dynamogeny,  or  the  production  of  force, 
every  living  thing,  therefore,  instinctively  seeks  for  dynamo- 
genous  sense-impressions,  and  avoids  enervating  and  inhibitive 
ones.  Now,  red  is  especially  dynamogenous.  '  When,'  says 
Binet,J  in  a  report  of  an  experiment  on  a  female  hysterical  subject 
who  was  paralyzed  in  one  half  of  her  body,  '  we  place  a  dynamo- 

*  Traite  clmique  et  iMrapeiitique  de  V Hysteric.,  p.  339.  See  also  Drs.  A. 
Marie  et  J.  Bonnet,  La  Vision  chez  les  Idiots  et  les  Imbeciles.     Paris,  1892. 

t  Alfred  Binet,  '  Recherches  sur  les  Alterations  de  la  Conscience  chez  les 
Hysteriques,'  Revue philosophique,  1889,  vol.  xxvii. 

X  Op.  cit..,  p.  150. 


FIN-DE-Sl£:CLE  29 

meter  in  the  anassthetically  insensible   right  hand  of  AmeHe 

Cle the  pressure  of  the  hand  amounts  to  12  kilogrammes. 

If  at  the  same  time  she  is  made  to  look  at  a  red  disc,  the 
number  indicating  the  pressure  in  kilogrammes  is  at  once 
doubled.'  Hence  it  is  intelligible  that  hysterical  painters  revel 
in  red,  and  that  hysterical  beholders  take  special  pleasure  in 
pictures  operating  dynamogenously,  and  producing  feelings  of 
pleasure. 

If  red  is  dynamogenous,  violet  is  conversely  enervating  and 
inhibitive.*  It  was  not  by  accident  that  violet  was  chosen  by 
many  nations  as  the  exclusive  colour  for  mourning,  and  by 
us  also  for  half-mourning.  The  sight  of  this  colour  has  a 
depressing  effect,  and  the  unpleasant  feeling  awakened  by  it 
induces  dejection  in  a  sorrowfully  -  disposed  mind.  This 
suggests  that  painters  suffering  from  hysteria  and  neurasthenia 
will  be  inclined  to  cover  their  pictures  uniformly  with  the 
colour  most  in  accordance  with  their  condition  of  lassitude 
and  exhaustion.  Thus  originate  the  violet  pictures  of  Manet 
and  his  school,  which  spring  from  no  actually  observable  aspect 
of  nature,  but  from  a  subjective  view  due  to  the  condition  of 
the  nerves.  When  the  entire  surface  of  walls  in  salons  and 
art  exhibitions  of  the  day  appears  veiled  in  uniform  half- 
mourning,  this  predilection  for  violet  is  simply  an  expression 
of  the  nervous  debility  of  the  painter. 

There  is  yet  another  phenomenon  highly  characteristic  in 
some  cases  of  degeneracy,  in  others  of  hysteria.  This  is  the 
formation  of  close  groups  or  schools  uncompromisingly  ex- 
clusive to  outsiders,  observable  to-day  in  literature  and  art. 
Healthy  artists  or  authors,  in  possession  of  minds  in  a 
condition  of  well-regulated  equilibrium,  will  never  think  of 
grouping  themselves  into  an  association,  which  may  at  pleasure 
be  termed  a  sect  or  band  ;  of  devising  a  catechism,  of  binding 
themselves  to  definite  aesthetic  dogmas,  and  of  entering  the 
lists  for  these  with  the  fanatical  intolerance  of  Spanish 
inquisitors.  If  any  human  activity  is  individualistic,  it  is  that 
of  the  artist.  True  talent  is  always  personal.  In  its  creations 
it  reproduces  itself,  its  own  views  and  feelings,  and  not  the 
articles  of  faith  learnt  from  any  aesthetic  apostle  ;  it  follows  its 
creative  impulses,  not  a  theoretical  formula  preached  by  the 
founder  of  a  new  artistic  or  literary  church ;  it  constructs  its 
work  in  the  form  organically  necessary  to  it,  not  in  that 
proclaimed  by  a  leader  as  demanded  by  the  fashion  of  the  day. 
The  mere  fact  that  an  artist  or  author  allows  himself  to  be 

*  Ch.  F616,  '  Sensation  et  Mouvement,'  Revue  philosophique^  1886.  See 
also  the  same  author's  Sensation  et  Mouvement^  Paris,  1887  ;  Dcgenerescence 
et  crimi7talitd,  Paris,  1888  ;  and  '  L'Energie  et  la  Vitesse  des  Mouvements 
volontaires,'  Revue  philosophique,  1889. 


30  DEGENERATION 

sworn  in  to  the  party  cry  of  any  'ism,'  that  he  perambulates 
with  jubilations  behind  a  banner  and  Turkish  music,  is  complete 
evidence  of  his  lack  of  individuality — that  is,  of  talent.  If  the 
mental  movements  of  a  period — even  those  which  are  healthy 
and  prolific — range  themselves,  as  a  rule,  under  certain  main 
tendencies,  which  receive  each  its  distinguishing  name,  this  is 
the  work  of  historians  of  civilization  or  literature,  who  subse- 
quently survey  the  combined  picture  of  an  epoch,  and  for  their 
own  convenience  undertake  divisions  and  classifications,  in 
order  that  they  may  more  correctly  find  their  way  among  the 
multifariousness  of  the  phenomena.  These  are,  however, 
almost  always  arbitrary  and  artificial.  Independent  minds 
(we  are  not  here  speaking  of  mere  imitators),  united  by  a  good 
critic  into  a  group,  may,  it  is  true,  have  a  certain  resemblance 
to  each  other,  but,  as  a  rule,  this  resemblance  will  be  the 
consequence,  not  of  actual  internal  affinity,  but  of  external 
influences.  No  one  is  able  completely  to  withdraw  himself 
from  the  influences  of  his  time,  and  under  the  impression  of 
events  which  affect  all  contemporaries  alike,  as  well  as  of  the 
scientific  views  prevailing  at  a  given  time,  certain  features 
develop  themselves  in  all  the  works  of  an  epoch,  which 
stamp  them  as  of  the  same  date.  But  the  same  men  who 
subsequently  appear  so  naturally  in  each  other's  company,  in 
historical  works,  that  they  seem  to  form  a  family,  went  when 
they  lived  their  separate  ways  far  asunder,  little  suspecting 
that  at  one  time  they  would  be  united  under  one  common 
designation.  Quite  otherwise  it  is  when  authors  or  artists 
consciously  and  intentionally  meet  together  and  found  an 
ggsthetic  school,  as  a  joint-stock  bank  is  founded,  with  a  title 
for  which,  if  possible,  the  protection  of  the  law  is  claimed, 
with  by-laws,  joint  capital,  etc.  This  may  be  ordinary  specu- 
lation, but  as  a  rule  it  is  disease.  The  predilection  for  form- 
ing societies  met  with  among  all  the  degenerate  and  hysterical 
may  assume  different  forms.  Criminals  unite  in  bands,  as 
Lombroso  expressly  establishes.^  Among  pronounced  lunatics 
it  is  the  folic  a  deux,  in  which  a  deranged  person  completely 
forces  his  insane  ideas  on  a  companion  ;  among  the  hysterical 
it  assumes  the  form  of  close  friendships,  causing  Charcot  to 
repeat  at  every  opportunity :  *  Persons  of  highly-strung  nerves 
attract  each  other  ;'f  and  finally  authors  found  schools. 

The  common  organic  basis  of  these  different  forms  of  one 
and  the  sarne  phenomenon — of  the  folie  a  deux,  the  associa- 
tion of  neuropaths,  the  founding  of  aesthetic  schools,  the 
banding  of  criminals — is,  with  the  active  part,  viz.,  those  who 
lead  and  inspire,  the  predominance  of  obsessions :    with  the 

*  Lombroso,  L'Uomo  dilhiqiceiite,  p.  524. 

f  '  Les  Nerveux  se  recherchent,'  Charcot,  Lego?zs  du  Mardi,  passim. 


FIN-DE-Sl^CLE  3I 

associates,  the  disciples,  the  submissive  part,  weakness  of  will 
and  morbid  susceptibility  to  suggestion.*  The  possessor  of 
an  obsession  is  an  incomparable  apostle.  There  is  no  rational 
conviction  arrived  at  by  sound  labour  of  intellect,  which  so 
completely  takes  possession  of  the  mind,  subjugates  so 
tyrannically  its  entire  activity,  and  so  irresistibly  impels  it  to 
words  and  deeds,  as  delirium.  Every  proof  of  the  senselesness 
of  his  ideas  rebounds  from  the  deliriously  insane  or  half-crazy 
person.  No  contradiction,  no  ridicule,  no  contempt,  affects 
him  ;  the  opinion  of  the  majority  is  to  him  a  matter  of  in- 
difference ;  facts  which  do  not  please  him  he  does  not  notice, 
or  so  interprets  that  they  seem  to  support  his  delirium  ; 
obstacles  do  not  discourage  him,  because  even  his  instinct  of 
self-preservation  is  unable  to  cope  with  the  power  of  his 
delirium,  and  for  the  same  reason  he  is  often  enough  ready, 
without  further  ado,  to  suffer  mart3Tdom.  Weak-minded  or 
mentally-unbalanced  persons,  coming  into  contact  with  a  man 
possessed  by  delirium,  are  at  once  conquered  by  the  strength 
of  his  diseased  ideas,  and  are  converted  to  them.  By  separating 
them  from  the  source  of  inspiration,  it  is  often  possible  to 
cure  them  of  their  transmitted  delirium,  but  frequently  their 
acquired  derangement  outlasts  this  separation. 

This  is  the  natural  history  of  the  aesthetic  schools.  Under  the 
influence  of  an  obsession,  a  degenerate  mind  promulgates  some 
doctrine  or  other — realism,  pornography,  mysticism,  symbolism, 
diabolism.  He  does  this  with  vehement  penetrating  eloquence, 
with  eagerness  and  fiery  heedlessness.  Other  degenerate,  hys- 
terical, neurasthenical  minds  flock  around  him,  receive  from  his 
lips  the  new  doctrine,  and  live  thenceforth  only  to  propagate  it. 

In  this  case  all  the  participants  are  sincere — the  founder  as 
well  as  the  disciples.  They  act  as,  in  consequence  of  the  dis- 
eased constitution  of  their  brain  and  nervous  system,  they  are 
compelled  to  act.  The  picture,  however,  which  from  a  clinical 
standpoint  is  perfectly  clear,  gets  dimmed  if  the  apostle  of  a 
craze  and  his  followers  succeed  in  attracting  to  themselves  the 
attention  of  wider  circles.  He  then  receives  a  concourse  of 
unbelievers,  who  are  very  well  able  to  recognise  the  insanity  of 
the  new  doctrine,  but  who  nevertheless  accept  it,  because  they 
hope,  as  associates  of  the  new  sect,  to  acquire  fame  and  money. 
In  every  civilized  nation  which  has  a  developed  art  and  litera- 
ture there  are  numerous  intellectual  eunuchs,  incapable  of 
producing  with  their  own  powers  a  living  mental  work,  but 
quite  able  to  imitate  the  process  of  production.     These  cripples 

*  Legrain,  op.  cit.,  p.  173  :  'The  true  explanation  of  the  occurrence  of 
folie  d.  detcx  must  be  sought  for,  on  the  one  hand,  in  the  predisposition  to 
insanity,  and,  on  the  other  hand,  in  the  accompanying  weakness  of  mind.' 
See  also  R^gis,  La  Folie  d  Deux,     Paris,  1880. 


32  DEGENERATION    . 

form,  unfortunately,  the  majority  of  professional  authors  and 
artists,  and  their  many  noxious  followers  often  enough  stifle 
true  and  original  talent.  Now  it  is  these  who  hasten  to  act  as 
camp-followers  for  every  new  tendency  which  seems  to  come 
into  fashion.  They  are  naturally  the  most  modern  of  moderns, 
for  no  precept  of  individuality,  no  artistic  knowledge,  hinders 
them  from  bunglingly  imitating  the  newest  model  with  all 
the  assiduity  of  an  artisan.  Clever  in  discerning  externals, 
unscrupulous  copyists  and  plagiarists,  they  crowd  round  every 
original  phenomenon,  be  it  healthy  or  unhealthy,  and  without 
loss  of  time  set  about  disseminating  counterfeit  copies  of  it. 
To-day  they  are  symbolists,  as  yesterday  they  were  realists  or 
pornographists.  If  they  can  promise  themselves  fame  and  a 
good  sale,  they  write  of  mysteries  with  the  same  fluency  as  if 
they  were  spinning  romances  of  knights  and  robbers,  tales  of 
adventure,  Roman  tragedies,  and  village  stories  at  a  time  when 
newspaper  critics  and  the  public  seemed  to  demand  these 
things  in  preference  to  others.  Now  these  practitioners,  who, 
let  it  be  again  asserted,  constitute  the  great  majority  of  the 
mental  workers  of  the  fashionable  sects  in  art  and  literature, 
and  therefore  of  the  associates  of  these  sects  also,  are  intellec- 
tually quite  sane,  even  if  they  stand  at  a  very  low  level  of 
development,  and  were  anyone  to  examine  them,  he  might 
easily  doubt  the  accuracy  of  the  diagnosis^  '  Degeneration'  as 
regards  the  confessors  of  the  new  doctrines.  Hence  some 
caution  must  be  exercised  in  the  inquiry,  and  the  sincere 
originators  be  always  distinguished  from  the  aping  intriguers, 
— the  founder  of  the  religion  and  his  apostles  from  the  rabble 
to  whom  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount  is  of  less  concern  than  the 
miraculous  draught  of  fishes  and  the  multiplication  of  loaves. 

It  has  now  been  shown  how  schools  originate.  They  arise 
from  the  degeneration  of  their  founders  and  of  the  imitators 
they  have  convinced.  That  they  come  into  fashion,  and  for  a 
short  time  attain  a  noisy  success,  is  due  to  the  peculiarities  of 
the  recipient  public,  namely,  to  hysteria.  We  have  seen  that 
hypersusceptibility  to  suggestion  is  the  distinguishing  charac- 
teristic of  hysteria.  The  same  power  of  obsession  with  which 
the  degenerate  in  mind  wins  imitators,  gathers  round  him 
adherents.  When  a  hysterical  person  is  loudly  and  unceasingly 
assured  that  a  work  is  beautiful,  deep,  pregnant  with  the  future, 
he  believes  in  it.  He  believes  in  everything  suggested  to  him 
with  sufficient  impressiveness.  When  the  httle  cow-girl,  Ber- 
nadette,  saw  the  vision  of  the  Holy  Virgin  in  the  grotto  of 
Lourdes,  the  women  devotees  and  hysterical  males  of  the  sur- 
rounding country  who  flocked  thither  did  not  merely  believe 
that  the  hallucinant  maiden  had  herself  seen  the  vision,  but  all 
of  them  saw  the  Holy  Virgin  with  their  own  eyes.     M.  E.  de 


.      FIN-DE-S1]^CLE  33 

Goncourt*  relates  that  in  1870,  during  the  Franco-Prussian 
War,  a  multitude  of  men,  numbering  tens  of  thousands,  in  and 
before  the  Bourse  in  Paris,  were  convinced  that  they  had  them- 
selves seen — indeed,  a  part  of  them  had  read — a  telegram 
announcing  French  victories  fastened  to  a  pillar  inside  the 
Exchange,  and  at  which  people  were  pointing  with  their  finger  ; 
but  as  a  matter  of  fact  it  never  existed.  It  would  be  possible 
to  cite  examples  by  the  dozen,  of  illusions  of  the  senses  suggested 
to  excited  crowds.  Thus  the  hysterical  allow  themselves  without 
more  ado  to  be  convinced  of  the  magnificence  of  a  work,  and 
even  find  in  it  beauties  of  the  highest  kind,  unthought  of  by  the 
authors  themselves  and  the  appointed  trumpeters  of  their  fame. 
If  the  sect  is  so  completely  established  that,  in  addition  to  the 
founders,  the  priests  of  the  temple,  the  paid  sacristans  and 
choir-boys,  it  has  a  congregation,  processions,  and  far-sounding 
bells,  it  then  attaches  to  itself  other  converts  besides  the  hys- 
terical who  have  accepted  the  new  belief  by  way  of  suggestion. 
Young  persons  without  judgment,  still  seeking  their  way,  go 
whither  they  see  the  multitude  streaming,  and  unhesitatingly 
follow  the  procession,  because  they  believe  it  to  be  marching 
on  the  right  road.  Superficial  persons,  fearing  nothing  so 
much  as  to  be  thought  behind  the  times,  attach  themselves  to 
the  procession,  shouting  '  Hurrah !'  and  '  All  hail !'  so  as  to  con- 
vince themselves  that  they  also  are  really  dancing  along  before 
the  latest  conqueror  and  newest  celebrity.  Decrepit  gray- 
beards,  filled  with  a  ridiculous  dread  of  betraying  their  real  age, 
eagerly  visit  the  new  temple  and  mingle  their  quavering  voices 
in  the  song  of  the  devout,  because  they  hope  to  be  thought 
young  when  seen  in  an  assembly  in  which  young  persons  pre- 
dominate. 

Thus  a  regular  concourse  is  established  about  a  victim  of 
degeneration.  The  fashionable  coxcomb,  the  aesthetic  '  gigerl,'t 
peeps  over  the  shoulder  of  the  hysterical  whose  admiration  has 
been  suggested  to  him  ;  the  intriguer  marches  at  the  heel  of  the 
dotard,  simulating  youth  ;  and  between  all  these  comes  pushing 
the  inquisitive  young  street-loafer,  who  must  always  be  in  every 
place  where  '  something  is  going  on.'  And  this  crowd,  because 
it  is  driven  by  disease,  self-interest  and  vanity,  makes  very 
much  more  noise  and  bustle  than  a  far  larger  number  of  sane 
men,  who,  without  self-seeking  after-thought,  take  quiet  enjoy- 
ment in  works  of  sane  talent^  and  do  not  feel  obliged  to  shout  out 
their  appreciation  in  the  streets,  and  to  threaten  with  death 
harmless  passers-by  who  do  not  join  in  their  jubilations. 

*  Journal  des  Goncourt.     Derni^re  sdrie,  premier  volume,  1870-71.     Paris, 
1890,  p.  17. 
t  Viennese  for  '  fop.'— Translator. 

3 


31  DEGENERATION 

CHAPTER  IV. 

ETIOLOGY. 

We  have  recognised  the  effect  of  diseases  in  these  fin-de-siecle 
literary  and  artistic  tendencies  and  fashions,  as  well  as  in  the 
susceptibility  of  the  public  with  regard  to  them,  and  we  have 
succeeded  in  maintaining  that  these  diseases  are  degeneracy 
and  hysteria.  We  have  now  to  inquire  how  these  maladies  of 
the  day  have  originated,  and  why  they  appear  with  such  extra- 
ordinary frequency  at  the  present  time. 

Morel,*  the  great  investigator  of  degeneracy,  traces  this 
chiefly  to  poisoning.  A  race  which  is  regularly  addicted,  even 
without  excess,  to  narcotics  and  stimulants  in  any  form  (such 
as  fermented  alcoholic  drinks,  tobacco,  opium,  hashish,  arsenic), 
which  partakes  of  tainted  foods  (bread  made  with  bad  corn), 
which  absorbs  organic  poisons  (marsh  fever,  syphilis,  tubercu- 
losis, goitre),  begets  degenerate  descendants  who,  if  they  remain 
exposed  to  the  same  influences,  rapidly  descend  to  the  lowest 
degrees  of  degeneracy,  to  idiocy,  to  dwarfishness,  etc.  That 
the  poisoning  of  civilized  peoples  continues  and  increases  at  a 
very  rapid  rate  is  widely  attested  by  statistics."}*  The  consump- 
tion of  tobacco  has  risen  in  France  from  o*8  kilogramme  per 
head  in  1841  to  1*9  kilogrammes  in  i8go.  The  corresponding 
figures  for  England  are  13  and  26  ounces; J  for  Germany,  o"8 
and  i"5  kilogrammes.     The  consumption  of  alcohol§    during 

*  Traite  des  Degenerescences^  passim. 

f  Personally  communicated  by  the  distinguished  statistician,  Herr  Josef 
Koro-ii,  Head  of  the  Bureau  of  Statistics  at  Budapest. 

\  Speech  of  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer,  Mr.  Goschen,  in  the  House 
of  Commons,  April  11,  1892. 

§  J.  Vavasseur  in  the  Economiste  fraiKiais  of  1890.  See  also  Bulletin  de 
Statistiqite  for  1891.  The  figures  are  uncertain,  for  they  have  been  given 
differently  by  every  statistician  whom  I  have  consulted.  The  fact  of  the 
increase  in  the  consumption  of  alcohol  alone  stands  out  with  certainty  in  all 
the  publications  consulted.  Besides  spirits,  fermented  drinks  are  consumed 
per  head  of  the  population,  according  to  J.  Korosi  : 


1830—18^0 
1880—1888 

Great  Britain. 

Wine. 
Gall. 

0'2       ., 

0-4      ., 

France. 

Beer 

and  Cider. 
Gall. 

26 

27 

1840 — 1842 
1870— 1872 

23    . 

25     . 



3 
6 

FIN-DE-SlfeCLE  35 

the  same  period  has  risen  in  Germany  (1844)  from  5*45  quarts 
to  (1867)  6*86  quarts  ;  in  England  from  2'0i  litres  to  2'64 
litres  ;  in  France  from  1*33  to  4  litres.  The  increase  in  the 
consumption  of  opium  and  hashish  is  still  greater,  but  we  need 
not  concern  ourselves  about  that,  since  the  chief  sufferers  from 
them  are  Eastern  peoples,  who  play  no  part  in  the  intellectual 
development  of  the  white  races.  To  these  noxious  influences, 
however,  one  more  may  be  added,  which  Morel  has  not  known, 
or  has  not  taken  into  consideration — residence  in  large  towns. 
The  inhabitant  of  a  large  town,  even  the  richest,  who  is  sur- 
rounded by  the  greatest  luxury,  is  continually  exposed  to  un- 
favourable influences  which  diminish  his  vital  powers  far  more 
than  what  is  inevitable.  He  breathes  an  atmosphere  charged 
with  organic  detritus  ;  he  eats  stale,  contaminated,  adulterated 
food  ;  he  feels  himself  in  a  state  of  constant  nervous  excitement, 
and  one  can  compare  him  without  exaggeration  to  the  inhabi- 
tant of  a  marshy  district.  The  effect  of  a  large  town  on  the 
human  organism  offers  the  closest  analogy  to  that  of  the 
Maremma,  and  its  population  falls  victim  to  the  same  fatality 
of  degeneracy  and  destruction  as  the  victims  of  malaria.  The 
death-rate  in  a  large  town  is  more  than  a  quarter  greater  than 
the  average  for  the  entire  population  ;  it  is  double  that  of  the 
open  country,  though  in  reality  it  ought  to  be  less,  since  in  a 
large  town  the  most  vigorous  ages  predominate,  during  which 
the  mortality  is  lower  than  in  infancy  and  old  age.*  And  the 
children  of  large  towns  who  are  not  carried  off  at  an  early  age 
suffer  from  the  peculiar  arrested  development  which  Morel-|*  has 
ascertained  in  the  population  of  fever  districts.  They  develop 
more  or  less  normally  until  fourteen  or  fifteen  years  of  age,  are 
up  to  that  time  alert,  sometimes  brihiantly  endowed,  and  give 
the  highest  promise  ;  then  suddenly  there  is  a  standstill,  the 
mind  loses  its  facility  of  comprehension,  and  the  boy  who, 
only  yesterday,  was  a  model  scholar,  becomes  an  obtuse, 
clumsy  dunce,  who   can  only   be    steered    with   the   greatest 

Prussia. 

Quarts. 

1839     13-48 

1871     1792 

German  Empire. 

Litres. 

1872    817 

1889 — 1890         90-3 

*  In  France  the  general  mortality  was,  from  1886  to  1890,  22'2I  per  1,000, 
But  in  Paris  it  rose  to  23"4  ;  in  Marseilles  to  34*8  ;  in  all  towns  with  more 
than  100,000  inhabitants  to  a  mean  of  28*3 1  ;  in  all  places  with  less  than 
5,000  inhabitants  to  2174.     {La  MMecine  nioderne,  year  1891.) 

t  Traitd  des  Ddgenerescences,  pp.  614,  615. 


36  DEGENERATION 

difficulty  through  his  examinations.  With  these  mental 
changes  bodily  modifications  go  hand  in  hand.  The  growth  of 
the  long  bones  is  extremely  slow,  or  ceases  entirely,  the  legs 
remain  short,  the  pelvis  retains  a  feminine  form,  certain  other 
organs  cease  to  develop,  and  the  entire  being  presents  a  strange 
and  repulsive  mixture  of  incompleteness  and  decay.* 

Now  we  know  how,  in  the  last  generation,  the  number  of 
the  inhabitants  of  great  towns  increased"!*  to  an  extraordinary 
degree.  At  the  present  time  an  incomparably  larger  portion 
of  the  whole  population  is  subjected  to  the  destructive  in- 
fluences of  large  towns  than  was  the  case  fifty  years  ago  ; 
hence  the  number  of  victims  is  proportionately  more  striking, 
and  continually  becomes  more  remarkable.  Parallel  with  the 
growth  of  large  towns  is  the  increase  in  the  number  of  the 
degenerate  of  all  kinds — criminals,  lunatics,  and  the  '  higher 
degenerates '  of  Magnan  ;  and  it  is  natural  that  these  last 
should  play  an  ever  more  prominent  part  in  endeavouring  to 
introduce  an  ever  greater  element  of  insanity  into  art  and 
literature. 

The  enormous  increase  of  hysteria  in  our  days  is  partly  due 
to  the  same  causes  as  degeneracy,  besides  which  there  is  one 
cause  much  more  general  still  than  the  growth  of  large  towns 
— a  cause  which  perhaps  of  itself  would  not  be  sufficient  to 
bring  about  degeneracy,  but  which  is  unquestionably  quite 
enough  to  produce  hysteria  and  neurasthenia.  This  cause  is 
the  fatigue  of  the  present  generation.  That  hysteria  is  in 
reality  a  consequence  of  fatigue  Fere  has  conclusively  demon- 
strated by  convincing  experiments.  In  a  communication  to 
the  Biological  Society  of  Paris,  this  distinguished  investigator 
says  :%  '  1  have  recently  observed  a  certain  number  of  facts 
which  have  made  apparent  the  analogy  existing  between 
fatigue  and  the  chronic  condition  of  the  hysterical.  One  knows 
that  among  the  hysterical  [involuntary !]  symmetry  of  move- 

*  Brouardel,  La  Semaine  midicale.  Paris,  1887,  p.  254.  In  this  very 
remarkable  study  by  the  Parisian  Professor,  the  following  passage  appears  : 
'What  will  these  [those  remaining  stationary  in  their  development]  young 
Parisians  become  by-and-by?  Incapable  of  accomplishing  a  long  and 
conscientious  work,  they  excel,  as  a  rule,  in  artistic  activities.  If  they  are 
painters  they  are  stronger  in  colour  than  in  drawing.  If  they  are  poets,  the 
flow  of  their  verses  assures  their  success  rather  than  the  vigour  of  the  thought.' 

■j"  The  26  German  towns  which  to-day  have  more  than  100,000  inhabitants, 
numbered  altogether,  in  1891,  6,000,000,  and  in  1835  1,400,000.  The  31 
English  towns  of  this  category,  in  1891,  10,870.000;  in  1841,  4,590,000  ;  the 
II  French  towns,  in  1891,  4,180,000;  in  1836,  1,710,000.  It  should  be 
remarked  that  about  a  third  of  these  68  towns  had  not  in  1840  as  many 
generally  as  100,000  inhabitants.  To-day,  in  the  large  towns  in  Germany, 
France,  and  England,  there  reside  21,050,000  individuals,  while  in  1840  only 
4,800,000  were  living  under  these  conditions.  (Communicated  by  Herr 
Josef  Korosi.) 

X  Fdrd,  La  Semaine  mMicale.     Paris,  1890,  p.  192. 


FIN-DE-SIECLE  37 

merits  frequently  shows  itself  in  a  very  characteristic  manner. 
I  have  proved  that  in  normal  subjects  this  same  symmetry  of 
movements  is  met  with  under  the  influence  of  fatigue.  A  pheno- 
menon which  shows  itself  in  a  very  marked  way  in  serious 
hysteria  is  that  peculiar  excitability  which  demonstrates  that 
the  energy  of  the  voluntary  movements,  through  peripheral 
stimulations  or  mental  presentations,  suffers  rapid  and  transitory 
modifications  co-existing  with  parallel  modifications  of  sensi- 
bility, and  of  the  functions  of  nutrition.  This  excitability  can 
be  equally  manifested  during  fatigue.  .  .  .  Fatigue  constitutes 
a  true  temporary  experimental  hysteria.  It  establishes  a  transi- 
tion between  the  states  which  we  call  normal  and  the  various 
states  which  we  designate  hysteria.  One  can  change  a  normal 
into  a  hysterical  individual  b}^  tiring  him.  .  .  .  All  these  causes 
(which  produce  hysteria)  can,  as  far  as  the  pathogenic  part 
they  play  is  concerned,  be  traced  to  one  simple  physiological 
process — to  fatigue,  to  depression  of  vitality.' 

Now,  to  this  cause  —  fatigue  —  which,  according  to  Fere, 
changes  healthy  men  into  hysterical,  the  whole  of  civilized 
humanity  has  been  exposed  for  half  a  century.  All  its  con- 
ditions of  life  have,  in  this  period  of  time,  experienced  a 
revolution  unexampled  in  the  history  of  the  world.  Humanity 
can  point  to  no  century  in  which  the  inventions  which  penetrate 
so  deeply,  so  tyrannically,  into  the  life  of  every  individual  are 
crowded  so  thick  as  in  ours.  The  discovery  of  America,  the 
Reformation,  stirred  men's  minds  powerfully,  no  doubt,  and 
certainly  also  destroyed  the  equilibrium  of  thousands  of  brains 
which  lacked  staying  power.  But  they  did  not  change  the 
material  life  of  man.  He  got  up  and  laid  down,  ate  and  drank, 
dressed,  amused  himself,  passed  his  days  and  years  as  he  had 
been  always  wont  to  do.  In  our  times,  on  the  contrary,  steam 
and  electricity  have  turned  the  customs  of  life  of  every  member 
of  the  civilized  nations  upside  down,  even  of  the  most  obtuse 
and  narrow-minded  citizen,  who  is  completely  inaccessible  to  the 
impelling  thoughts  of  the  times. 

In  an  exceptionally  remarkable  lecture  by  Professor  A.  W. 
von  Hofmann,  in  i8go,  before  the  Congress' of  German  Natural 
Science  held  in  Bremen,  he  gave,  in  concluding,  a  short 
description  of  the  life  of  an  inhabitant  of  a  town  in  the  year 
1822.  He  shows  us  a  student  of  science  who  at  that  date  is 
arriving  with  the  coach  from  Bremen  to  Leipzig.  The  journey 
has  lasted  four  days  and  four  nights,  and  the  traveller  is 
naturally  stiff  and  bruised.  His  friends  receive  him,  and  he 
wishes  to  refresh  himself  a  little.  But  there  is  yet  no  Munich 
beer  in  Leipzig.  After  a  short  interview  with  his  comrades, 
he  goes  in  search  of  his  inn.  This  is  no  easy  task,  for  in 
the  streets  an  Egyptian  darkness  reigns,  broken  only  at  long 


38  DEGENERATION 

distances  by  the  smoky  flame  of  an  oil-lamp.  He  at  last  finds 
his  quarters,  and  wishes  for  a  light.  As  matches  do  not  yet 
exist,  he  is  reduced  to  bruising  the  tips  of  his  fingers  with  flint 
and  steel,  till  he  succeeds  at  last  in  lighting  a  tallow  candle. 
He  expects  a  letter,  but  it  has  not  come,  and  he  cannot  now 
receive  it  till  after  some  days,  for  the  post  only  runs  twice  a 
week  between  Frankfort  and  Leipzig.* 

But  it  is  unnecessary  to  go  back  to  the  year  1822,  chosen 
by  Professor  Hofmann.  Let  us  stop,  for  purposes  of  com- 
parison, at  the  year  1840.  This  year  has  not  been  arbitrarily 
selected.  It  is  about  the  date  when  that  generation  was  born 
which  has  witnessed  the  irruption  of  new  discoveries  in  every 
relation  of  life,  and  thus  personally  experienced  those  trans- 
formations which  are  the  consequences.  This  generation 
reigns  and  governs  to-day ;  it  sets  the  tone  everywhere,  and 
its  sons  and  daughters  are  the  youth  of  Europe  and  America, 
in  whom  the  new  aesthetic  tendencies  gain  their  fanatical 
partisans.  Let  us  now  compare  how  things  went  on  in  the 
civilized  world  in  1840  and  a  half-century  later.-f* 

In  1840  there  were  in  Europe  3,000  kilometres  of  railway  ;  in 
i8gi  there  were  218,000  kilometres.  The  number  of  travellers 
in  1840,  in  Germany,  France  and  England,  amounted  to 
2^  millions  ;  in  1891  it  was  614  millions.  In  Germany  every 
inhabitant  received,  in  1840,  85  letters;  in  1888,  200  letters. 
In  1840  the  post  distributed  in  France  94  millions  of  letters ; 
in  England,  277  millions  ;  in  1881,  595  and  1,299  millions 
respectively.  The  collective  postal  intercourse  between  all 
countries,  without  including  the  internal  postage  of  each 
separate  country,  amounted,  in  1840,  to  92  millions;  in  1889, 
to  2',759  millions.  In  Germany,  in  1840,  305  newspapers  were 
published ;  in  1891,  6,800 ;  in  France,  776  and  5,182 ;  in 
England  (1846),  551  and  2,255.  The  German  book  trade 
produced,  in  1840,  1,100  new  works ;  in  1891,  18,700.  The 
exports  and  imports  of  the  world  had,  in  1840,  a  value  of 
28,  in  1889  of  74,  milliards  of  marks.  The  ships  which,  in 
1840,  entered  all  the  ports  of  Great  Britain  contained  93-, 
in  1890  74I,  millions  of  tons.  The  whole  British  merchant 
navy  measured,  in  1840,  3,200,000;  in  1890,  9,688,000  tons. 

*  See,  besides  the  lecture  by  Hofmann,  the  excellent  book  :  Ei7ie  deutsche 
Stadt  vor  6 3  Jahren,  Kidtiir^^eschichtliche  Skizze,  von  Dr.  Otto  Bahr, 
2  Auflage.     Leipzig,  1891. 

t  In  order  not  to  make  the  footnotes  too  unwieldy,  I  state  here  that  the 
following  figures  are  borrowed  in  part  from  communications  made  by  Herr 
Josef  Korosi,  in  part  from  a  remarkable  study  by  M.  Charles  Richet  : 
'Dans  Cent  Ans,'  Revtie  scientijique,  1891-92  ;  and  in  a  small  degree  from 
private  publications  (such  as  A^inuaire  de  la  Presse,  Press  Difectoty,  etc.) 
For  some  of  the  figures  I  have  also  used,  with  profit,  Mulhall,  and  the  speech 
of  Herr  von  Stephan  to  the  Reichstag,  February  4,  1S92. 


FIN-DE-SIeCLE  39 

Let  us  now  consider  how  these  formidable  figures  arise. 
The  18,000  new  pubhcations,  the  6,800  newspapers  in 
Germany,  desire  to  be  read,  although  many  of  them  desire  in 
vain  ;  the  2,759  millions  of  letters  must  be  written ;  the  larger 
commercial  transactions,  the  numerous  journeys,  the  increased 
marine  intercourse,  imply  a  correspondingly  greater  activity 
in  individuals.  The  humblest  village  inhabitant  has  to-day 
a  wider  geographical  horizon,  more  numerous  and  complex 
intellectual  interests,  than  the  prime  minister  of  a  petty,  or 
even  a  second-rate  state  a  century  ago.  If  he  do  but  read 
his  paper,  let  it  be  the  most  innocent  provinciaJ  rag,  he  takes 
part,  certainly  not  by  active  interference  and  influence,  but 
by  a  continuous  and  receptive  curiosity,  in  the  thousand  events 
which  take  place  in  all  parts  of  the  globe,  and  he  interests 
himself  simultaneously  in  the  issue  of  a  revolution  in  Chili, 
in  a  bush-war  in  East  Africa,  a  massacre  in  North  China,  a 
famine  in  Russia,  a  street-row  in  Spain,  and  an  international 
exhibition  in  North  America.  A  cook  receives  and  sends  more 
letters  than  a  university  professor  did  formerly,  and  a  petty 
tradesman  travels  more  and  sees  more  countries  and  people 
than  did  the  reigning  prince  of  other  times. 

All  these  activities,  however,  even  the  simplest,  involve  an 
effort  of  the  nervous  system  and  a  wearing  of  tissue.  Every 
line  we  read  or  write,  every  human  face  we  see,  every  conver- 
sation we  carry  on,  every  scene  we  perceive  through  the 
window  of  the  flying  express,  sets  in  activity  our  sensory 
nerves  and  our  brain  centres.  Even  the  little  shocks  of  rail- 
way travelling,  not  perceived  by  consciousness,  the  perpetual 
noises,  and  the  various  sights  in  the  streets  of  a  large  town, 
our  suspense  pending  the  sequel  of  progressing  events,  the 
constant  expectation  of  the  newspaper,  of  the  postman,  of 
visitors,  cost  our  brains  wear  and  tear.  In  the  last  fifty  years 
the  population  of  Europe  has  not  doubled,  whereas  the  sum  of 
its  labours  has  increased  tenfold,  in  part  even  fifty-fold.  Every 
civilized  man  furnishes,  at  the  present  time,  from  five  to 
twenty-five  times  as  much  work  as  was  demanded  of  him  half 
a  century  ago. 

This  enormous  increase  in  organic  expenditure  has  not,  and 
cannot  have,  a  corresponding  increase  of  supply.  Europeans 
now  eat  "a  little  more  and  a  little  better  than  they  did  fifty 
years  ago,  but  by  no  means  in  proportion  to  the  increase  of 
effort  which  to-day  is  required  of  them.  And  even  if  they 
had  the  choicest  food  in  the  greatest  abundance,  it  would  do 
nothing  towards  helping  them,  for  they  would  be  incapable  of 
digesting  it.  Our  stomachs  cannot  keep  pace  with  the  brain 
and  nervous  system.  The  latter  demand  very  much  more 
than  the  former  are  able  to  perform.     And  so  there  follows 


40  DEGENERATION 

what  always  happens  if  great  expenses  are  met  by  small 
incomes ;  first  the  savings  are  consumed,  then  comes 
bankruptcy. 

Its  own  new  discoveries  and  progress  have  taken  civilized 
humanity  by  surprise.  It  has  had  no  time  to  adapt  itself  to 
its  changed  conditions  of  life.  We  know  that  our  organs 
acquire  by  exercise  an  ever  greater  functional  capacity,  that 
they  develop  by  their  own  activity,  and  can  respond  to  nearly 
every  demand  made  upon  them ;  but  only  under  one  condition 
— that  this  occurs  gradually,  that  time  be  allowed  them.  If 
they  are  obliged  to  fulfil,  without  transition,  a  multiple  of  their 
usual  task,  they  soon  give  out  entirely.  No  time  was  left  to 
our  fathers.  Between  one  day  and  the  next,  as  it  were,  without 
preparation,  with  murderous  suddenness,  they  were  obliged  to 
change  the  comfortable  creeping  gait  of  their  former  existence 
for  the  stormy  stride  of  modern  life,  and  their  heart  and  lungs 
could  not  bear  it.  The  strongest  could  keep  up,  no  doubt, 
and  even  now,  at  the  most  rapid  pace,  no  longer  lose  their 
breath,  but  the  less  vigorous  soon  fell  out  right  and  left,  and 
fill  to-day  the  ditches  on  the  road  of  progress. 

To  speak  without  metaphor,  statistics  indicate  in  what  measure 
the  sum  of  work  of  civilized  humanity  has  increased  during  the 
half-century.  It  had  not  quite  grown  to  this  increased  effort. 
It  grew  fatigued  and  exhausted,  and  this  fatigue  and  exhaus- 
tion showed  themselves  in  the  first  generation,  under  the  form 
of  acquired  hysteria  ;  in  the  second,  as  hereditary  hysteria. 

The  new  aesthetic  schools  and  their  success  are  a  form  of 
this  general  hysteria ;  but  they  are  far  from  being  the  only  one. 
The  malady  of  the  period  shows  itself  in  yet  many  other 
phenomena  which  can  be  measured  and  counted,  and  thus 
are  susceptible  of  being  scientifically  established.  And  these 
positive  and  unambiguous  symptoms  of  exhaustion  are  well 
adapted  to  enlighten  the  ignorant,  who  might  believe  at  first 
sight  that  the  specialist  acts  arbitrarily  in  tracing  back  fashion- 
able tendencies  in  art  and  literature  to  states  of  fatigue  in 
civilized  humanity. 

It  has  become  a  commonplace  to  speak  of  the  constant 
increase  of  crime,  madness  and  suicide.  In  1840,  in  Prussia, 
out  of  100,000  persons  of  criminally  responsible  age,  there  were 
714  convictions ;  in  1888,  1,102  (from  a  letter  communicated 
by  the  Prussian  bureau  of  statistics).  In  1865,  in  every  10,000 
Europeans  there  were  63  suicides  ;  in  1883,  log  ;  and  since  that 
time  the  number  has  increased  considerably.  In  the  last 
twenty  years  a  number  of  new  nervous  diseases  have  been 
discovered  and  named. "^  Let  it  not  be  believed  that  they 
always  existed,  and  were  merely  overlooked.  If  they  had  been 
*  See  G.  Andr^,  Les  nouvelles  maladies  nerveuses,     Paris,  1892. 


FIN-DE-Sl£:CLE  41 

met  with  anywhere  they  would  have  been  detected,  for  even 
if  the  theories  which  prevailed  in  medicine  at  various  periods 
were  erroneous,  there  have  always  been  perspicacious  and 
attentive  physicians  who  knew  how  to  observe.  If,  then,  the 
new  nervous  diseases  wer,e  not  noticed,  it  is  because  they  did 
not  formerly  appear.  And  they  are  exclusively  a  consequence 
of  the  present  conditions  of  civilized  life.  Many  affections  of 
the  nervous  system  already  bear  a  name  which  implies  that 
they  are  a  direct  consequence  of  certain  influences  of  modern 
civilization.  The  terms  'railway-spine'  and  'railway-brain,' 
which  the  English  and  American  pathologists  have  given 
to  certain  states  of  these  organs,  show  that  they  recognise 
them  as  due  partly  to  the  effects  of  railway  accidents,  partly 
to  the  constant  vibrations  undergone  in  railway  travelling. 
Again,  the  great  increase  in  the  consumption  of  narcotics 
and  stimulants,  which  has  been  shown  in  the  figures  above, 
has  its  origin  unquestionably  in  the  exhausted  systems  with 
which  the  age  abounds.  There  is  here  a  disastrous,  vicious 
circle  of  reciprocal  effects.  The  drinker  (and  apparently  the 
smoker  also)  begets  enfeebled  children,  hereditarily  fatigued 
or  degenerated,  and  these  drink  and  smoke  in  their  turn, 
because  they  are  fatigued.  These  crave  for  a  stimulus,  for  a 
momentary,  artificial  invigoration,  or  an  alleviation  of  their 
painful  excitability,  and  then,  when  they  recognise  that  this 
increases,  in  the  long-run,  their  exhaustion  as  well  as  their 
excitability,  they  cannot,  through  weakness  of  will,  resist  those 
habits.* 

Many  observers  assert  that  the  present  generation  ages 
much  more  rapidly  than  the  preceding  one.  Sir  James 
Crichton-Browne  points  out  this  effect  of  modern  circumstances 
on  contemporaries  in  his  speech  at  the  opening  of  the  winter 
term,  1891,  before  the  medical  faculty  of  the  Victoria  Uni- 
versity.t  From  1859  to  1863  there  died  in  England,  of  heart- 
disease,  92,181  persons  ;  from  1884  to  1888,  224,102.  Nervous 
complaints  carried  off  from  1864  to  1868,  196,000  persons  ; 
from  1884  to  1888,  260,558.  The  difference  of  figures  would 
have  been  still  more  striking  if  Sir  James  had  chosen  a  more 
remote  period  for  comparison  with  the  present,  for  in  1865  the 
high  pressure  under  which  the  English  worked  was  already 
nearly  as  great  as  in  1885.  The  dead  carried  off  by  heart  and 
nerve  diseases  are  the  victims  of  civilization.  The  heart  and 
nervous  system  first  break  down  under  the  overstrain.  Sir 
James  in  his  speech  says  further  on  :  '  Men  and  women  grow 

*  Legrain,  op.  ctL,  p.  251  :  *  Drinkers  are  "degenerates";'  and  p.  258  (after 
four  reports  ot  invalids  which  serve  as  a  basis  to  the  following  summary) : 
'  Hence,  at  the  base  of  all  forms  of  alcoholism  we  find  mental  degeneracy.' 

t  Revue  scientifique.,  year  1892  ;  vol.  xlix.,  p.  168  et  seg. 


42  DEGENERATION 

old  before  their  time.  Old  age  encroaches  upon  the  period  of 
vigorous  manhood.  .  .  .  Deaths  due  exclusively  to  old  age 
are  found  reported  now  between  the  ages  of  forty-five  and  fifty- 
five.  .  .  .'  Mr.  Critchett  (an  eminent  oculist)  says  :  '  My  own 
experience,  which  extends  now  over  a  quarter  of  a  century, 
leads  me  to  believe  that  men  and  women,  in  the  present  day, 
seek  the  aid  of  spectacles  at  a  less  advanced  period  of  life  than 
their  ancestors.  .  .  .  Previously  men  had  recourse  to  spectacles 
at  the  age  of  fifty.  The  average  age  is  now  forty-five  years.' 
Dentists  assert  that  teeth  decay  and  fall  out  at  an  earlier  age 
than  formerly.  Dr.  Lieving  attests  the  same  respecting  the 
hair,  and  assures  us  that  precocious  baldness  is  to  be  specially 
observed  '  among  persons  of  nervous  temperaments  and  active 
mind,  but  of  weak  general  health.'  Everyone  who  looks  round 
the  circle  of  his  friends  and  acquaintances  will  remark  that 
the  hair  begins  to  turn  gray  much  sooner  than  in  former 
days.  Most  men  and  women  show  their  first  white  hairs  at 
the  beginning  of  the  thirties,  many  of  them  at  a  very  much 
younger  age.  Formerly  white  hair  was  the  accompaniment 
of  the  fiftieth  year. 

All  the  symptoms  enumerated  are  the  consequences  of  states 
of  fatigue  and  exhaustion,  and  these,  again,  are  the  effect  of  con- 
temporary civilization,  of  the  vertigo  and  whirl  of  our  frenzied 
life,  the  vastly  increased  number  of  sense  impressions  and 
organic  reactions,  and  therefore  of  perceptions,  judgments,  and 
motor  impulses,  which  at  present  are  forced  into  a  given  unity 
of  time.  To  this  general  cause  of  contemporary  pathological 
phenomena,  one  may  be  added  special  to  France.  By  the 
frightful  loss  of  blood  which  the  body  of  the  French  people 
suffered  during  the  twenty  years  of  the  Napoleonic  wars,  by 
the  violent  moral  upheavals  to  which  they  were  subjected  in 
the  great  Revolution  and  during  the  imperial  epic,  they  found 
themselves  exceedingly  ill-prepared  for  the  impact  of  the  great 
discoveries  of  the  century,  and  sustained  by  these  a  more 
violent  shock  than  other  nations  more  robust  and  more  capable 
of  resistance.  Upon  this  nation,  nervously  strained  and  pre- 
destined to  morbid  derangement,  there  broke  the  awful  cata- 
strophe of  1870.  It  had,  with  a  self-satisfaction  which  almost 
attained  to  megalomania,  believed  itself  the  first  nation  in  the 
world ;  it  now  saw  itself  suddenly  humiliated  and  crushed. 
All  its  convictions  abruptly  crumbled  to  pieces.  Every  single 
Frenchman  suffered  reverses  of  fortune,  lost  some  members  of 
his  family,  and  felt  himself  personally  robbed  of  his  dearest 
conceptions,  nay,  even  of  his  honour.  The  whole  people  fell 
into  the  condition  of  a  man  suddenly  visited  by  a  crushing  blow 
of  destiny,  in  his  fortune,  his  position,  his  family,  his  reputa- 
tion, even  in  his  self-respect.    Thousands  lost  their  reason.     In 


FIN-DE-SIECLE  43 

Paris  a  veritable  epidemic  of  mental  diseases  was  observed,  for 
which  a  special  name  was  found — la  folie  obsidionale,  'siege- 
madness.'  And  even  those  who  did  not  at  once  succumb  to 
mental  derangement,  suffered  lasting  injury  to  their  nervous 
system.  This  explains  why  hysteria  and  neurasthenia  are  much 
more  frequent  in  France,  and  appear  under  such  a  greater 
variety  of  forms,  and  why  they  can  be  studied  far  more  closely 
in  this  country  than  anywhere  else.  But  it  explains,  too,  that 
it  is  precisely  in  France  that  the  craziest  fashions  in  art  and 
literature  would  necessarily  arise,  and  that  it  is  precisely  there 
that  the  morbid  exhaustion  of  which  we  have  spoken  became 
for  the  first  time  sufficiently  distinct  to  consciousness  to  allow 
a  special  name  to  be  coined  for  it,  namely,  the  designation  of 
fin-de-siecle. 

The  proposition  which  I  set  myself  to  prove  may  now  be 
taken  as  demonstrated.  In  the  civilized  world  there  obviously 
prevails  a  twilight  mood  which  finds  expression,  amongst  other 
ways,  in  all  sorts  of  odd  aesthetic  fashions.  All  these  new 
tendencies,  realism  or  naturalism,  '  decadentism,'  neo-mysti- 
cism,  and  their  sub-varieties,  are  manifestations  of  degeneration 
and  hysteria,  and  identical  with  the  mental  stigmata  which  the 
observations  of  clinicists  have  unquestionably  established  as 
belonging  to  these.  But  both  degeneration  and  hysteria  are  the 
consequences  of  the  excessive  organic  wear  and  tear  suffered 
by  the  nations  through  the  immense  demands  on  their  activity, 
and  through  the  rank  growth  of  large  towns. 

Led  by  this  firmly  linked  chain  of  causes  and  effects,  every- 
one capable  of  logical  thought  will  recognise  that  he  commits  a 
serious  error  if,  in  the  aesthetic  schools  which  have  sprung  up 
in  the  last  few  years,  he  sees  the  heralds  of  a  new  era.  They 
do  not  direct  us  to  the  future,  but  point  backwards  to  times 
past.  Their  word  is  no  ecstatic  prophecy,  but  the  senseless 
stammering  and  babbling  of  deranged  minds,  and  what  the 
ignorant  hold  to  be  the  outbursts  of  gushing,  youthful  vigour 
and  turbulent  constructive  impulses  are  really  nothing  but  the 
convulsions  and  spasms  of  exhaustion. 

We  should  not  allow  ourselves  to  be^  deceived  by  certain 
catch-words,  frequently  uttered  in  the  works  of  these  professed 
innovators.  They  talk  of  socialism,  of  emancipation  of  the 
mind,  etc.,  and  thereby  create  the  outward  show  of  being 
deeply  imbued  with  the  thoughts  and  struggles  of  the  times. 
But  this  is  empty  sham.  The  catch -words  in  vogue  are 
scattered  through  the  works  without  internal  sequence,  and  the 
struggles  of  the  times  are  merely  painted  on  the  outside.  It  is 
a  phenomenon  observed  in  every  kind  of  mania,  that  it  receives 
its  special  colouring  from  the  degree  of  culture  of  the  invalid, 
and  from  the  views  prevailing  at  the  times  in  which  he  lived. 


44  DEGENERATION 

The  Catholic  who  is  a  prey  to  megalomania  fancies  he  is  the 
Pope  ;  the  Jew,  that  he  is  the  Messiah  ;  the  German,  that  he 
is  the  Emperor  or  a  field-marshal ;  the  Frenchman,  that  he  is 
the  President  of  the  Republic.  In  the  persecution-mania,  the 
invalid  of  former  days  complained  of  the  wickedness  and 
knavery  of  magicians  and  witches  ;  to-day  he  grumbles  because 
his  imaginary  enemies  send  electric  streams  through  his  nerves, 
and  torment  him  with  magnetism.  The  degenerates  of  to-day 
chatter  of  Socialism  and  Darwinism,  because  these  words, 
and,  in  the  best  case,  the  ideas  connected  with  these,  are  in 
current  use.  These  so-called  socialist  and  freethinking  works 
of  the  degenerate  as  little  advance  the  development  of  society 
towards  more  equitable  economic  forms,  and  more  rational 
views  of  the  relations  among  phenomena,  as  the  complaints 
and  descriptions  of  an  individual  suffering  from  persecution- 
mania,  and  who  holds  electricity  responsible  for  his  disagree- 
able sensations,  advance  the  knowledge  of  this  force  of  nature. 
Those  obscure  or  superficially  verbose  works  which  pretend 
to  offer  solutions  for  the  serious  questions  of  our  times,  or,  at 
least,  to  prepare  the  way  thereto,  are  even  impediments  and 
causes  of  delay,  because  they  bewilder  weak  or  unschooled 
brains,  suggest  to  them  erroneous  views,  and  make  them  either 
more  inaccessible  to  rational  information  or  altogether  closed 
to  it. 

The  reader  is  now  placed  at  those  points  of  view  whence  he 
can  see  the  new  esthetic  tendencies  in  their  true  light  and 
their  real  shape.  It  will  be  the  task  of  the  following  books 
to  demonstrate  the  pathological  character  of  each  one  of 
these  tendencies,  and  to  inquire  what  particular  species  of 
degenerate  delirium  or  hysterical  psychological  process  they 
are  related  to  or  identical  with. 


BOOK  II. 

MYSTICISM, 

CHAPTER  I. 

THE    PSYCHOLOGY   OF   MYSTICISM. 

We  have  already  learnt  to  see  in  mysticism  a  principal 
characteristic  of  degeneration.  It  follows  so  generally  in  the 
train  of  the  latter,  that  there  is  scarcely  a  case  of  degeneration 
in  which  it  does  not  appear.  To  cite  authorities  for  this  is 
about  as  unnecessary  as  to  adduce  proof  for  the  fact  that  in 
typhus  a  rise  in  the  temperature  of  the  body  is  invariably  ob- 
served. I  will  therefore  only  repeat  one  remark  of  Legrain's  :* 
*  Mystical  thoughts  are  to  be  laid  to  the  account  of  the 
insanity  of  the  degenerate.  There  are  two  states  in  which 
they  are  observed — in  epilepsy  and  in  hysterical  delirium.' 
When  Federoff,t  who  makes  mention  of  religious  delirium  and 
ecstasy  as  among  the  accompanying  features  of  an  attack  of 
hysteria,  puts  them  down  as  a  peculiarity  of  women,  he  commits 
an  error,  since  they  are  at  least  as  common  in  male  hysterical 
and  degenerate  subjects  as  in  female. 

What  is  really  to  be  understood  by  this  somewhat  vague 
term  '  mysticism '  ?  The  word  describes  a  state  of  mind  in 
which  the  subject  imagines  that  he  perceives  or  divines  un- 
known and  inexplicable  relations  amongst -phenomena,  discerns 
in  things  hints  at  mysteries,  and  regards  them  as  symbols,  by 
which  a  dark  power  seeks  to  unveil  or,  at  least,  to  indicate  all 
sorts  of  marvels  which  he  endeavours  to  guess,  though  generally 
in  vain.  This  condition  of  mind  is  always  connected  with 
strong  emotional  excitement,  which  consciousness  conceives 
to  be  the  result  of  its  presentiments,  although  it  is  this  ex- 
citement, on  the  contrary,  which  is  pre-existent,  while  the  pre- 
sentiments are  caused  by  it  and  receive  from  it  their  peculiar 
direction  and  colour. 

*  Legrain,  op.  cit.,  p.  266. 

t  Quoted  by  J.  Roubinovitch,  HystMe  mdle  et  D^ginirescence,  p.  18. 


d6  DEGENERATION 

All  phenomena  in  the  world  and  in  life  present  themselves 
in  a  different  light  to  the  mystic  from  what  they  do  to  the  sane 
man.  The  simplest  word  uttered  before  the  former  appears 
to  him  an  allusion  to  something  mysteriously  occult ;  in  the 
most  commonplace  and  natural  movements  he  sees  hidden 
signs.  All  things  have  for  him  deep  backgrounds ;  far-reach- 
ing shadows  are  thrown  by  them  over  adjacent  tracts ;  they 
send  out  wide-spreading  roots  into  remote  substrata.  Every 
image  that  rises  up  in  his  mind  points  with  mysterious  silence, 
though  with  significant  look  and  finger,  to  other  images  distinct 
or  shadowy,  and  induces  him  to  set  up  relations  between 
ideas,  where  other  people  recognise  no  connection.  In  con- 
sequence of  this  pecuharity  of  his  mind,  the  mystic  lives  as 
if  surrounded  by  sinister  forms,  from  behind  whose  masks 
enigmatic  eyes  look  forth,  and  whom  he  contemplates  with 
constant  terror,  since  he  is  never  sure  of  recognising  any 
shapes  among  the  disguises  which  press  upon  him.  '  Things 
are  not  what  they  seem '  is  the  characteristic  expression 
frequently  heard  from  the  mystic.  In  the  history  of  a 
'degenerate'  in  the  clinics  of  Magnan*  it  is  written  :  '  A  child 
asks  drink  of  him  at  a  public  fountain.  He  finds  this  un- 
natural. The  child  follows  him.  This  fills  him  with  astonish- 
ment. Another  time  he  sees  a  woman  sitting  on  a  curb-stone. 
He  asks  himself  what  that  could  possibly  mean.'  In  extreme 
cases  this  morbid  attitude  amounts  to  hallucinations,  which, 
as  a  rule,  affect  the  hearing;  but  it  can  also  influence  sight 
and  the  other  senses.  When  this  is  so,  the  mystic  does  not 
confine  himself  to  conjectures  and  guesses  at  mysteries  in  and 
behind  phenomena,  but  hears  and  sees  as  real,  things  which  for 
the  sane  man  are  non-existent. 

Pathological  observation  of  the  insane  is  content  to  describe 
this  mental  condition,  and  to  determine  its  occurrence  in 
the  hysterical  and  degenerate.  That,  however,  is  not  the  end 
of  the  matter.  We  also  want  to  know  in  what  manner  the 
degenerate  or  exhausted  brain  falls  into  mysticism.  In  order 
to  understand  the  subject,  we  must  refer  to  some  simple  facts 
in  the  growth  of  the  mind.^f 

Conscious  intellection  is  activity  of  the  gray  surface  of  the 
bram,  a  tissue  consisting  of  countless  nerve-cells  united  by 
nerve-fibres.  In  this  tissue  the  nerves,  both  of  the  external 
bodily  surface  and  of  the  internal  organs,  terminate.  When 
one  of  these  nerves  is  excited  (the  nerve  of  vision  by  a  ray  of 

*  Legrain,  op.  cti.y  p.  200. 

t  The  scientific  psychologist  will  perhaps  read  with  impatience  expositions 
with  which  he  is  so  famihar;  but  they  are,  unfortunateh',  not  superfluous 
for  a  very  numerous  class  of  even  highly  educated  per.^ons,  who  have  never 
had  instruction  in  the  laws  of  the  operations  of  the  brain. 


MYSTICISM  47 

light,  a  nerve  in  the  skin  by  contact,  an  organic  nerve  by 
internal  chemical  action,  etc.),  it  at  once  conveys  the  excite- 
ment to  the  nerve -cell  in  the  cerebral  cortex  in  which  it 
debouches.  This  cell  undergoes  in  consequence  chemical 
changes,  which,  in  a  healthy  condition  of  the  organism,  are 
in  direct  relation  to  the  strength  of  the  stimulus.  The  nerve- 
cell,  which  is  immediately  affected  by  the  stimulus  conveyed 
to  it  by  the  conducting  nerve,  propagates  in  its  turn  the 
stimulus  received  to  all  the  neighbouring  cells  with  which  it 
is  connected  by  fibrous  processes.  The  disturbance  spreads 
itself  on  all  sides,  like  a  wave-circle  that  is  caused  by  any 
object  thrown  into  water,  and  subsides  gradually  exactly  as 
does  the  wave — more  quickly  or  more  slowly,  with  greater  or 
less  diffusion,  as  the  stimulus  that  caused  it  has  been  stronger 
or  weaker. 

Every  stimulus  which  reaches  a  place  on  the  cerebral 
cortex  results  in  a  rush  of  blood  to  that  spot,*  by  means  of 
which  nutriment  is  conveyed  to  it.  The  brain-cells  decompose 
these  substances,  and  transmute  the  stored-up  energy  in  them 
into  other  forms  of  energy,  namely,  into  ideas  and  motor  im- 
pulses.t  How  an  idea  is  formed  out  of  the  decomposition  of 
tissues,  how  a  chemical  process  is  metamorphosed  into  con- 
sciousness, nobody  knows ;  but  the  fact  that  conscious  ideas 
are  connected  with  the  process  of  decomposition  of  tissues  in 
the  stimulated  brain-cells  is  not  a  matter  of  doubt.;}; 

In  addition  to  the  fundamental  property  in  the  nerve-cells 
of  responding  to  a  stimulus  produced  by  chemical  action,  they 
have  also  the  capacity  of  preserving  an  image  of  the  strength 
and  character  of  this  stimulus.  To  put  it  popularly,  the  cell 
is  able  to  remember  its  impressions.  If  now  a  new,  although 
it  may  be  a  weaker,  disturbance  reach  this  cell,  it  rouses  in  it 
an  image  of  similar  stimuli  which  had  previously  reached  it, 
and  this  memory-image  strengthens  the  new  stimulus,  making 
it  more  distinct  and  more  intelligible  to  consciousness.  If 
the  cell   could   not   remember,   consciousness  would   be  ever 

*  Mosso's  experiments  on,  and  observations  of,  the  exposed  surface  of  the 
brain  during  trepanning  have  quite  established  this' fact. 

f  The  experiments  of  Ferner,  it  is  true,  have  led  him  to  deny  that  a 
stimulus  which  touches  the  cortex  of  the  frontal  lobes  can  result  in  move- 
ment. The  case,  nevertheless,  is  not  so  simple  as  Ferrier  sees  it  to  be.  A 
portion  of  the  energy  which  is  set  free  by  the  peripheral  stimulus  in  the  cells 
of  the  cortex  of  the  frontal  lobes  certainly  transmutes  itself  into  a  motor 
impulse,  even  if  the  immediate  stimulation  of  the  anterior  brain  releases  no 
muscular  contractions.  But  this  is  not  the  place  to  defend  this  point  against 
Ferrier. 

%  A.  Herzen  is  the  author  of  the  hypothesis  that  consciousness  is  con- 
nected with  the  destruction  of  organic  connections  in  the  brain-cells,  and  the 
restoration  of  this  connection  with  rest,  sleep,  and  unconsciousness.  All  we 
know  of  the  chemical  composition  of  the  secretions  in  sleeping  and  v.aking 
points  to  the  correctness  of  this  hypothesis. 


48  DEGENERATION 

incapable  of  interpreting  its  impressions,  and  could  never  suc- 
ceed in  attaining  to  a  presentation  of  the  outer  world.  Particular 
direct  stimuli  would  certainly  be  perceived,  but  they  would 
remain  without  connection  or  import,  since  they  are  by  them- 
selves, and  without  the  assistance  of  earlier  impressions,  in- 
adequate to  lead  to  knowledge.  Memory  is  therefore  the  first 
condition  of  normal  brain  activity. 

The  stimulus  which  reaches  a  brain-cell  gives  rise,  as  we 
have  seen,  to  an  expansion  of  this  stimulus  to  the  neighbour- 
ing cells,  to  a  wave  of  stimulus  proceeding  in  all  directions. 
And  since  every  stimulus  is  connected  with  the  rise  of  con- 
scious presentations,  it  proves  that  every  stimulus  calls  a  large 
number  of  presentations  into  consciousness,  and  not  only  such 
presentations  as  are  related  to  the  immediate  external  cause 
of  the  stimulation  perceived,  but  also  such  as  are  only  aroused 
by  the  cells  that  elaborate  them  happening  to  lie  in  the  vicinity 
of  that  cell,  or  group  of  cells,  which  the  external  stimulus  has 
immediately  reached.  The  wave  of  stimulus,  like  every  other 
wave-motion,  is  strongest  at  its  inception ;  it  subsides  in  direct 
ratio  to  the  widening  of  its  circle,  till  at  last  it  vanishes  into 
the  imperceptible.  Corresponding  to  this,  the  presentations, 
having  their  seat  in  cells  which  are  in  the  immediate  neigh- 
bourhood of  those  first  reached  by  the  stimulus,  are  the  most 
lively,  while  those  arising  from  the  more  distant  cells  are  some- 
what less  distinct,  and  this  distinctness  continues  to  decrease 
until  consciousness  can  no  longer  perceive  them — until  they, 
as  science  expresses  it,  sink  beneath  the  threshold  of  conscious- 
ness. Each  particular  stimulus  arouses,  therefore,  not  only 
in  the  cell  to  which  it  was  directly  led,  but  also  in  countless 
other  contiguous  and  connected  cells,  the  activity  which  is 
bound  up  with  presentation.  Thus  arise  simultaneously,  or, 
more  accurately,  following  each  other  in  an  immeasurably 
short  interval  of  time,  thousands  of  impressions  of  regularly 
decreasing  distinctness ;  and  since  unnumbered  thousands  of 
external  and  internal  organic  stimuli  are  carried  to  the  brain, 
so  continually  thousands  of  stimulus -waves  are  coursing 
through  it,  crossing  and  intersecting  each  other  with  the 
greatest  diversity,  and  in  their  course  arousing  millions  of 
emerging,  waning,  and  vanishing  impressions.  It  is  this  that 
Goethe  means  when  he  depicts  in  such  splendid  language  how 

* .  .  .  ein  Tritt  tausend  Faden  regt, 
Die  Schifflein  heriiber,  hiniiber  schiessen, 
Die  Faden  ungesehen  fliessen, 
Ein  Schlag  tausend  Verbindungen  schlagt.'* 

*  '  One  tread  moves  a  thousand  threads, 
The  shuttles  dart  to  and  fro. 
The  threads  flow  on  invisible. 
One  stroke  sets  up  a  thousand  ties.' 


MYSTICISM  49 

Now,  memory  is  a  property  not  only  of  the  nerve-cell,  but 
also  of  the  nerve-fibre,  which  is  only  a  modification  of  the 
cell.  The  fibre  has  a  recollection  of  the  stimulus  which  it 
conveyed,  in  the  same  way  as  the  cell  has  of  that  which  it  has 
transformed  into  presentation  and  motion.  A  stimulus  will  be 
more  easily  conducted  by,  a  fibre  which  has  already  conveyed 
it,  than  by  one  which  propagates  it  for  the  first  time  from  one 
cell  to  another.  Every  stimulus  which  reaches  a  cell  will  take 
the  line  of  least  resistance,  and  this  will  be  set  out  for  it  along 
those  nerve-tracks  which  it  has  already  traversed.  Thus  a 
definite  path  is  formed  for  the  course  of  a  stimulus-wave,  a 
customary  line  of  march  ;  it  is  always  the  same  nerve-cells 
which  exchange  mutually  their  stimulus-waves.  Presentation 
always  awakens  the  same  resulting  presentations,  and  always 
appears  in  consciousness  accompanied  by  them.  This  pro- 
cedure is  called  the  association  of  ideas. 

It  is  neither  volition  nor  accident  that  determines  to  which 
other  cells  a  disturbed  cell  habitually  communicates  its  stimulus, 
which  accompanying  impressions  an  aroused  presentation  draws 
with  it  into  consciousness.  On  the  contrary,  the  linking  of 
presentations  is  dependent  upon  laws  which  Wundt  especially 
has  well  formulated. 

Those  who  have  not  been  born  blind  and  deaf  (like  the 
unfortunate  Laura  Bridgman,  cited  by  all  psychologists)  will 
never  be  influenced  by  one  external  stimulus  only,  but  invariably 
by  many  stimuli  at  once.  Every  single  phenomenon  of  the 
outer  world  has,  as  a  rule,  not  only  one  quality,  but  many ; 
and  since  that  which  we  call  a  quality  is  the  assumed  cause 
of  a  definite  sensation,  it  results  that  phenomena  appeal  at 
once  to  several  senses,  are  simultaneously  seen,  heard,  felt, 
and  moreover  are  seen  in  different  degrees  of  light  and  colour, 
heard  in  various  nuances  of  timbre,  etc.  The  few  phenomena 
which  possess  only  one  quality  and  arouse  therefore  only  one 
sense,  e.g.,  thunder,  which  is  only  heard,  although  with  varying 
intensity,  occur  nevertheless  in  conjunction  with  other  pheno- 
mena, such  as,  to  keep  to  thunder,  with  a  clouded  sky,  lightning 
and  rain.  Our  brains  are  therefore  accustomed  to  receive  at 
once  from  every  phenomenon  several  stimuli,  which  proceed 
partly  from  the  many  qualities  of  the  phenomenon  itself,  and 
partly  from  the  phenomena  usually  accompanying  it.  Now,  it 
is  sufficient  that  only  one  of  these  stimuli  should  reach  the 
brain,  in  order  to  call  into  life,  in  virtue  of  the  habitual  associa- 
tion of  the  memory-images,  the  remaining  stimuli  of  the  same 
group  as  well.  Simultaneity  of  impressions  is  therefore  a  cause 
of  the  association  of  ideas. 

One   and  the   same    quality  belongs   to    many  phenomena. 
There  is  a  whole  s  tries  of  things  which  are  blue,  round,  and 
4 


50  DEGENERATION 

smooth.  The  possession  of  a  common  quality  is  a  condition 
of  similarity,  which  is  greater  in  proportion  to  the  number  of 
common  qualities.  Every  single  quality,  however,  belongs 
to  a  habitually  associated  group  of  qualities,  and  can  by  the 
mechanism  of  simultaneity  arouse  the  memory-image  of  this 
group.  In  consequence  of  their  similarity,  therefore,  the 
memory-images  can  be  aroused  of  all  those  groups,  which 
resemble  each  other  in  seme  quality.  The  colour  blue  is  a 
quality  which  belongs  equally  to  the  cheerful  sky,  the  corn- 
flower, the  sea,  certain  eyes,  and  many  military  uniforms. 
The  perception  of  blue  will  awaken  the  memory  of  some  or 
many  blue  things  which  are  only  related  through  their  common 
colour.  Similarity  is  therefore  another  cause  of  the  association 
of  ideas. 

It  is  a  distinctive  characteristic  of  the  brain-cell  to  elaborate 
at  the  same  time  both  a  presentation  and  its  opposite.  It  is 
probable  that  what  we  perceive  as  its  opposite  is  generally,  in 
its  original  and  simplest  form,  only  the  consciousness  of  the 
cessation  of  a  certain  presentation.  As  the  fatigue  of  the 
optic  nerve  by  a  colour  arouses  the  sensation  of  the  compli- 
mentary colour,  so,  on  the  exhaustion  of  a  brain-cell  through 
the  elaboration  of  a  presentation,  the  contrary  presentation 
appears  in  consciousness.  Now,  whether  this  interpretation 
be  right  or  not,  the  fact  itself  is  established  through  the 
'  contradictory  double  meaning  of  primitive  roots,'  discovered 
by  K.  Abel.*  Contrast  is  the  third  cause  of  the  association  of 
ideas. 

Many  phenomena  present  themselves  in  the  same  place 
close  to,  or  after,  one  another;  and  we  associate  there,  presenta- 
tion of  the  particular  place  with  those  objects,  to  which  it  is 
used  to  serve  as  a  frame.  Simultaneity,  similarity,  contrast, 
and  occurrence  in  the  same  place  (contiguity),  are  thus,  accord- 
ing to  Wundt,  the  four  conditions  under  which  phenomena 
will  be  connected  in  our  consciousness  through  the  association 
of  ideas.  To  these  James  Sullyf  believes  yet  a  fifth  should  be 
added :  presentations  which  are  rooted  in  the  same  emotion. 
Nevertheless  all  the  examples  cited  by  the  distinguished  English 
psychologist  demonstrate  without  effort  the  action  of  one  or 
more  of  Wundt's  laws. 

In  order  that  an  organism  should  maintain  itself,  it  must 
be  in  a  position  to  make  use  of  natural  resources,  and  protect 
itself  from  adverse  conditions  of  every  sort.  It  can  accomplish 
this  only  if  it  possess  a  knowledge  of  these  adverse  conditions, 
and  of  such  natural  resources  as  it  can  use ;  and  it  can  do  this 
better  and  more  surely  the  more  complete  this  knowledge  is. 

*  Karl  Abel,  Ueber  den  Gegensinft  der  Ui'worte.     Leipzig,  1884. 
f  James  Sully,  Il/ifszotts.     London,  1881. 


MYSTICISM  51 

In  the  more  highly  differentiated  organism  it  devolves  upon 
the  brain  and  nervous  system  to  acquire  knowledge  of  the 
outer  world,  and  to  turn  that  knowledge  to  the  advantage  of 
the  organism.  Memory  makes  it  possible  for  the  brain  to 
perform  its  task,  and  the  mechanism  by  which  memory  is 
made  to  serve  the  purport  of  knowledge  is  the  association  of 
ideas.  For  it  is  clear  that  a  brain,  in  which  a  single  perception 
awakens  through  the  operation  of  the  association  of  ideas  a 
whole  train  of  connected  representations,  will  recognise,  con- 
ceive and  judge  far  more  rapidly  than  one  in  which  no  associa- 
tion of  ideas  obtains,  and  which  therefore  would  form  only  such 
concepts  as  had  for  their  content  direct  sense-perceptions  and 
such  representations  as  originated  in  those  cells  which,  by  the 
accident  of  their  contiguity,  happened  to  He  in  the  circuit  of  a 
stimulus-wave.  For  the  brain  which  works  with  association 
of  ideas,  the  perception  of  a  ray  of  light,  of  a  tone,  is  sufficient, 
in  order  instantly  to  produce  the  presentation  of  the  object  from 
which  the  sensation  proceeds,  as  well  as  of  its  relations  in  time 
and  space,  to  group  these  presentations  as  concepts,  and  from 
these  concepts  to  arrive  at  a  judgment.  To  the  brain  with- 
out association  of  ideas  that  perception  would  only  convey 
the  presentation  of  having  something  bright  or  sonant  in 
front  of  it.  In  addition,  presentations  would  be  aroused 
which  had  nothing  in  common  with  this  bright  or  sonant 
something ;  it  could  form  no  image  of  the  exciter  of  the  sense, 
but  it  would  first  have  to  receive  a  train  of  further  impressions 
from  several  or  all  of  the  senses,  in  order  to  learn  to  recognise 
the  various  properties  of  the  object,  of  which  at  first  only  a 
tone  or  a  colour  was  perceived,  and  to  unite  them  in  a  single 
presentation.  Even  then  the  brain  would  only  know  in  what 
the  object  consisted,  i.e.,  what  it  had  in  front  of  it,  but  not 
how  the  object  stood  in  relation  to  other  things,  where  and 
when  it  had  already  been  perceived,  and  by  what  phenomena 
it  was  accompanied,  etc.  Knowledge  of  objects  thus  acquired 
would  be  wholly  unadapted  to  the  formation  of  a  right  judg- 
ment. It  can  now  be  seen  what  a  great  advantage  was  given 
to  the  organism  in  the  struggle  for  existence  by  the  association 
of  ideas,  and  what  immense  progress  in  the  development  of 
the  brain  and  its  activity  the  acquirement  of  it  signified. 

But  this  is  only  true  with  a  limitation.  The  association  of 
ideas  as  such  does  not  do  more  to  lighten  the  task  of  the  brain 
in  apprehending  and  in  judging  than  does  the  uprising  throng 
of  memory-images  in  the  neighbourhood  of  the  excited  centre. 
The  presentations,  which  the  association  of  ideas  calls  into 
consciousness,  stand,  it  is  true,  in  somewhat  closer  connection 
with  the  phenomenon  which  has  sent  a  stimulus  to  the  brain, 
and  by  the  latter  has  been  perceived,  than  do  those  occurring 


52  DEGENERATION 

in  the  geometrical  circuit  of  the  stimulus-wave  ;  but  even  this 
connection  is  so  slight,  that  it  offers  no  efficient  help  in  the 
interpretation  of  the  phenomenon.  We  must  not  forget  that 
properly  all  our  perceptions,  ideas,  and  conceptions  are  con- 
nected more  or  less  closely  through  the  association  of  ideas. 
As  in  the  example  cited  above  the  sensation  of  blue  arouses 
the  ideas  of  the  sky,  the  sea,  a  blue  eye,  a  uniform,  etc.,  so  will 
each  of  these  ideas  arouse  in  its  turn,  according  to  Wundt's 
law,  ideas  associated  with  them.  The  sky  will  arouse  the  idea 
of  stars,  clouds  and  rain  ;  the  sea,  that  of  ships,  voyages, 
foreign  lands,  fishes,  pearls,  etc. ;  blue  eyes,  that  of  a  girl's 
face,  of  love  and  all  its  emotions ;  in  short,  this  one  sensation, 
through  the  mechanism  of  the  association  of  ideas,  can  arouse 
pretty  well  almost  all  the  conceptions  which  we  have  ever  at 
any  time  formed,  and  the  blue  object  which  we  have  in  fact 
before  our  eyes  and  perceive,  will,  through  this  crowd  of  ideas 
which  are  not  directly  related  to  it,  be  neither  interpreted  nor 
explained. 

In  order,  however,  that  the  association  of  ideas  may  fulfil  its 
functions  in  the  operations  of  the  brain,  and  prove  itself  a 
useful  acquisition  to  the  organism,  one  thing  more  must  be 
added,  namely,  attention.  This  it  is  which  brings  order  into 
the  chaos  of  representations  awakened  by  the  association  of 
ideas,  and  makes  them  subserve  the  purposes  of  cognition  and 
judgment. 

What  is  attention  ?  Th.  Ribot*  defines  this  attribute  as 
*  a  spontaneous  or  an  artificial  adaptation  of  the  individual  to 
a  predominating  thought.'  (I  translate  this  definition  freely 
because  too  long  an  explanation  would  be  necessary  to  make 
the  uninitiated  comprehend  the  expressions  made  use  of  by 
Ribot.)  In  other  words,  attention  is  the  faculty  of  the  brain 
to  suppress  one  part  of  the  memory-images  which,  at  each 
excitation  of  a  cell  or  group  of  cells,  have  arisen  in  conscious- 
ness, by  way  either  of  association  or  of  stimulus-wave  ;  and  to 
maintain  another  part,  namely,  only  those  memory-images 
which  relate  to  the  exciting  cause,  i.e.^  to  the  object  just 
perceived. 

Who  makes  this  selection  among  the  memory- images  ? 
The  stimulus  itself,  which  rouses  the  brain-cells  into  activity. 
Naturally  those  cells  would  be  the  most  strongly  excited  which 
are  directly  connected  with  the  afferent  nerves.  Somewhat 
weaker  is  the  excitement  of  the  cells  to  which  the  cell  first 
excited  sends  its  impulse  by  way  of  the  customary  nerve 
channels  ;  still  weaker  the  excitement  of  those  cells  which,  by 
the  same  mechanism,  receive  their  stimulus  from  the  secondarily 
excited  cell.  That  idea  will  be  the  most  powerful,  therefore, 
*  Th.  Ribot,  Psychologie  de  V Attention.     Paris,  1889. 


MYSTICISM  53 

which  is  awakened  directly  by  the  perception  itself;  somewhat 
weaker  that  which  is  aroused  by  the  first  impression  through 
association  of  ideas ;  weaker  still  that  which  the  association  in 
its  turn  involves.  We  know  further  that  a  phenomenon  never 
produces  a  single  stimulus,,but  several  at  once.  If,  for  example, 
we  see  a  man  before  us,  we  do  not  merely  perceive  a  single  point 
in  him,  but  a  larger  or  smaller  portion  of  his  exterior,  i.e.,  a  large 
number  of  differently  coloured  and  differently  illuminated 
points ;  perhaps  we  hear  him  as  well,  possibly  touch  him,  and, 
at  all  events,  perceive  besides  him  somewhat  of  his  environ- 
ment, of  his  spacial  relations.  Thus,  there  arise  in  our  brain 
quite  a  number  of  centres  of  stimulation,  operating  simul- 
taneously in  the  manner  described  above.  There  awakes  in  con- 
sciousness a  series  of  primary  presentations,  which  are  stronger, 
i.e.,  clearer,  than  the  associated  or  consequent  representations, 
namely,  just  those  presentations  which  the  man  standing  before 
us  has  himself  aroused.  They  are  like  the  brightest  light-spots 
in  the  midst  of  others  less  brilliant.  These  brightest  light-spots 
necessarily  predominate  in  consciousness  over  the  lesser  ones. 
They  fill  the  consciousness,  which  combines  them  in  a  judgment. 
For  what  we  call  a  judgment  is,  in  the  last  resort,  nothing  else 
than  a  simultaneous  lighting  up  of  a  number  of  presentations 
in  consciousness,  which  we  in  truth  only  bring  into  relation  with 
each  other  because  we  ourselves  became  conscious  of  them  at 
one  and  the  same  moment.  The  ascendency  which  the  clearer 
presentations  acquire  over  the  more  obscure,  the  primary  pre- 
sentations over  derived  representations,  in  consciousness, 
enables  them,  with  the  help  of  the  will,  to  influence  for  a  time 
the  whole  brain-activity  to  their  own  advantage,  viz.,  to  suppress 
the  weaker,  i.e.,  the  derived,  representations ;  to  combat  those 
which  cannot  be  made  to  agree  with  them  ;  to  reinforce,  to  draw 
into  their  cii'cuit  of  stimulation,  or  simply  to  arouse,  others, 
through  which  they  themselves  are  reinforced  and  secure  some 
duration  in  the  midst  of  the  constant  emergence  and  disap- 
pearance of  representations  in  their  pursuit  of  each  other.  I 
myself  conceive  the  interference  of  the  will  in  this  struggle 
for  life  amongst  representations  as  giving  motor  impulses  (even 
if  unconsciously)  to  the  muscles  of  the  cerebral  arteries.  By 
this  means  the  bloodvessels  are  dilated  or  contracted  as  re- 
quired,* and  the  consequent  supply  of  blood  becomes  more  or 

*  It  is  possible  that  an  active  expansion  of  the  bloodvessels  does  not 
take  place,  but  only  a  contraction.  It  has  been  lately  denied  that  there  are  any 
nerves  of  vascular  dilatation  {inter  alia  by  Dr.  Morar,  La  Setnaine  medicale, 
1892,  p.  112).  But  the  effect  may  be  the  same  in  both  cases.  For  through 
the  contraction  of  the  vessels  in  a  single  brain-circuit,  the  dislodged  blood 
would  be  driven  to  other  portions  of  the  brain,  and  these  would  experience  a 
greater  access  of  blood,  just  as  if  their  vessels  were  actively  dilated. 


54  DEGENERATION 

less  copious.*  The  cells  which  receive  no  blood  must  suspend 
their  action  ;  those  which  receive  a  larger  supply  can,  on  the 
contrary,  operate  more  powerfully.  The  will  which  regulates 
the  distribution  of  blood,  when  incited  by  a  group  of  presenta- 
tions temporarily  predominating,  thus  resembles  a  servant  who 
is  constantly  occupied  in  a  room  in  carrying  out  the  behests  of 
his  master :  to  light  the  gas  in  one  place,  in  another  to  turn  it 
up  higher,  in  another  to  turn  it  off  partly  or  wholly,  so  that  at 
one  moment  this,  and  at  another  that,  corner  of  the  room 
becomes  bright,  dim,  or  dark.  The  preponderance  of  a  group 
of  presentations  allows  them  during  their  period  of  power  to 
bring  into  their  service,  not  only  the  brain-cells,  but  the  whole 
organism  besides ;  and  not  only  to  fortify  themselves  through 
the  representations  which  they  arouse  by  way  of  association,  but 
also  to  seek  certain  new  sense-impressions,  and  repress  others, 
in  order,  on  the  one  hand,  to  obtain  new  excitations  favourable 
to  their  persistence  —  new  original  perceptions — and  on  the 
other  hand,  through  the  exclusion  of  the  rest,  to  ward  off  such 
excitations  as  are  adverse  to  their  persistence. 

For  instance,  I  see  in  the  street  a  passer-by  who  for  some 
reason  arouses  my  attention.  The  attention  immediately  sup- 
presses all  other  presentations  which,  an  instant  before,  were 
in  my  consciousness,  and  permits  those  only  to  remain  which 
refer  to  the  passer-by.  In  order  to  intensify  these  presenta- 
tions I  look  after  him,  i.e.,  the  ciliary  and  ocular  muscles,  then 
the  muscles  of  the  neck,  perhaps  also  the  muscles  of  the 
body  and  of  the  legs,  receive  motor  impulses,  which  serve 
the  purpose  only  of  keeping  up  continually  new  sense-impres- 
sions of  the  object  of  my  attention,  by  means  of  which  the  pre- 
sentations of  him  are  continuously  strengthened  and  multiplied. 
I  do  not  notice  other  persons  who  for  the  time  come  into  my 
field  of  vision,  I  disregard  the  sounds  which  meet  my  ears,  if 
my  attention  is  strong  enough  I  do  not  perhaps  even  hear 
them ;  but  I  should  at  once  hear  them  if  they  proceeded 
from  the  particular  passer-by,  or  if  they  had  any  reference 
to  him. 

This  is  the  *  adaptation  of  the  whole  organism  to  a  pre- 

*  When  I  wrote  these  words  I  was  under  the  impression  that  I  was  the 
sole  originator  of  the  physiological  theory  of  attention  therein  set  forth. 
Since  the  appearance  of  this  book,  however,  I  have  read  Alfred  Lehmann's 
work,  Die  Hypnose  und  die  daviit  verzvaitdten  norviahn  Ztisiiinde,  Leipzig, 
1890,  and  have  there  (pp.  27  ei  seq.)  found  my  theory  in  almost  identical  words. 
Lehmann,  then,  published  it  two  years  before  I  did,  which  fact  I  here  duly 
acknowledge.  That  we  arrived  at  this  conclusion  independently  of  each 
other  would  testify  that  the  hypothesis  of  vaso-motor  reflex  action  is  really 
explanatory.  Wundt  {Hyptiotis/iuis  tind Suggestion^  Leipzig,  1892,  pp.  27-30), 
it  is  true,  criticises  Lehmann's  work,  but  he  seems  to  agree  with  this  h)po. 
thesis — which  is  also  mine — or,  at  least,  raises  no  objection  to  it. 


MYSTICISM  55 

dominant  idea  '  of  which  Ribot  speaks.  This  it  is  which  gives 
us  exact  knowledge  of  the  external  world.  Without  it  that 
knowledge  would  be  much  more  difficult  of  attainment,  and 
would  remain  much  more  incomplete.  This  adaptation  will 
continue  until  the  cells,  ■  which  are  the  bearers  of  the  pre- 
dominating presentations,  become  fatigued.  They  will  then 
be  compelled  to  surrender  their  supremacy  to  other  groups  of 
cells,  whereupon  the  latter  will  obtain  the  power  to  adapt  the 
organism  to  their  purposes. 

Thus  we  see  it  is  only  through  attention  that  the  faculty  of 
association  becomes  a  property  advantageous  to  the  organism, 
and  attention  is  nothing  but  the  faculty  of  the  will  to  determine 
the  emergence,  degree  of  clearness,  duration  and  extinction  of 
presentations  in  consciousness.  The  stronger  the  will,  so  much 
the  more  completely  can  we  adapt  the  whole  organism  to  a 
given  presentation,  so  much  the  more  can  we  obtain  sense 
impressions  which  serve  to  enhance  this  presentation,  so  much 
the  more  can  we  by  association  induce  memory-images,  which 
complete  and  rectify  the  presentation,  so  much  the  more 
definitely  can  we  suppress  the  presentations  which  disturb  it  or 
are  foreign  to  it ;  in  a  word,  so  much  the  more  exhaustive  and 
correct  will  our  knowledge  be  of  phenomena  and  their  true 
connection. 

Culture  and  command  over  the  powers  of  nature  are  solely 
the  result  of  attention  ;  all  errors,  all  superstition,  the  conse- 
quence of  defective  attention.  False  ideas  of  the  connection 
between  phenomena  arise  through  defective  observation  of 
them,  and  will  be  rectified  by  a  more  exact  observation.  Now, 
to  observe  means  nothing  else  than  to  convey  deliberately 
determined  sense-impressions  to  the  brain,  and  thereby  raise  a 
group  of  presentations  to  such  clearness  and  intensity  that  it 
can  acquire  preponderance  in  consciousness,  arouse  through 
association  its  allied  memory-images,  and  suppress  such  as  are 
incompatible  with  itself.  Observation,  which  hes  at  the  root 
of  all  progress,  is  thus  the  adaptation  through  attention  of  the 
sense-organs  and  their  centres  of  perception  to  a  presentation 
or  group  of  presentations  predominating  in  consciousness. 

A  state  of  attention  allows  no  obscurity  to  persist  in  conscious- 
ness. For  either  the  will  strengthens  every  rising  presentation 
to  full  clearness  and  distinctness,  or,  if  it  cannot  do  this,  it 
extinguishes  the  idea  completely.  The  consciousness  of  a- 
healthy,  strong-minded,  and  consequently  attentive  man, 
resembles  a  room  in  the  full  light  of  day,  in  which  the  eye  sees 
all  objects  distinctly,  in  which  all  outlines  are  sharp,  and 
wherein  no  indefinite  shadows  are  floating. 

Attention,  therefore,  presupposes  strength  of  will,  and  this, 
again,  is  the  property  only  of  a  normally  constituted  and  un- 


56  DEGENERATION 

exhausted  brain.  In  the  degenerate,  whose  brain  and  nervous 
system  are  characterized  by  hereditary  malformations  or  ir- 
regularities ;  in  the  hysterical,  whom  we  have  learnt  to  regard 
as  victims  of  exhaustion,  the  will  is  entirely  lacking,  is  possessed 
only  in  a  small  degree.  The  consequence  of  weakness  or  want 
of  will  is  incapacity  of  attention.  Alexander  Starr*  pubhshed 
twenty-three  cases  of  lesions,  or  diseases  of  the  convolutions  of 
the  brain,  in  which  '  it  was  impossible  for  the  patients  to  fix 
their  attention ';  and  Ribotf  remarks :  '  A  man  who  is  tired 
after  a  long  walk,  a  convalescent  who  has  undergone  a  severe 
illness — in  a  word,  all  weakened  persons  are  incapable  of  atten- 
tion. .  .  .  Inability  to  be  attentive  accompanies  all  forms  of 
exhaustion.' 

Untended  and  unrestrained  by  attention,  the  brain  activity 
of  the  degenerate  and  hysterical  is  capricious,  and  without  aim 
or  purpose.  Through  the  unrestricted  play  of  association  re- 
presentations are  called  into  consciousness,  and  are  free  to  run 
riot  there.  They  are  aroused  and  extinguished  automatically  ; 
and  the  will  does  not  interfere  to  strengthen  or  to  suppress 
them.  Representations  mutually  alien  or  mutually  exclusive 
appear  continuously.  The  fact  that  they  are  retained  in  con- 
sciousness simultaneously,  and  at  about  the  same  intensity, 
combines  them  (in  conformity  with  the  laws  of  conscious 
activity)  into  a  thought  which  is  necessarily  absurd,  and  cannot 
express  the  true  relations  of  phenomena. 

Weakness  or  want  of  attention,  produces,  then,  in  the  first 
place,  fals2  judgments  respecting  the  objective  universe, 
respecting  the  qualities  of  things  and  their  relations  to  each 
other.  Consciousness  acquires  a  distorted  and  blurred  view  of 
the  external  world.  And  there  follows  a  further  consequence. 
The  chaotic  course  of  stimuli  along  the  channels  of  association 
and  of  the  adjacent  structures  arouses  the  activity  both  of 
contiguous,  of  further,  and  of  furthest  removed  groups  of  cells, 
which,  left  to  themselves,  act  only  so  long  and  with  such 
varying  intensity  as  is  proportionate  to  the  intensity  of  the 
stimulus  which  has  reached  them.  Clear,  obscure,  and  yet 
obscurer  representations  rise  in  consciousness,  which,  after  a 
time,  disappear  again,  without  having  attained  to  greater  dis- 
tinctness than  they  had  when  first  appearing.  The  clear  repre- 
sentations produce  a  thought,  but  such  a  one  as  cannot  for  a 
moment  become  firmer  or  clearer,  because  the  definite  repre- 
sentations of  which  it  is  composed  are  mingled  with  others 
which  consciousness  perceives  indistinctly,  or  scarcely  perceives 
at  all.  Such  obscure  ideas  cross  the  threshold  of  even  a  healthy 
person's  consciousness ;  but  in  that  case  attention  intervenes 

*  Brain,  January,  1 886.  quoted  by  Ribot,  Psychologic  de  P Attention,  p.  6& 
f  Ribot,  op.  cit.,  pp.  io6  and  119. 


MYSTICISM 


57 


at  once,  to  bring  them  fully  to  the  light,  or  entirely  to  suppress 
them.  These  synchronous  over-tones  of  every  thought  cannot, 
therefore,  blur  the  tonic  note.  The  emergent  thought-phantoms 
can  acquire  no  influence  over  the  thought-procedure  because 
attention  either  lightens  "up  their  faces,  or  banishes  them  back 
to  their  under-w^orld  of  the  Unconscious.  It  is  otherwise  with 
the  degenerate  and  debilitated,  who  suffer  from  weakness  of 
will  and  defective  attention.  The  faint,  scarcely  recognisable, 
liminal  presentations  are  perceived  at  the  same  time  as  those 
that  are  well  lit  and  centrally  focussed.  The  judgment  grows 
drifting  and  nebulous  like  floating  fog  in  the  morning  wind. 
Consciousness,  aware  of  the  spectrally  transparent  shapes, 
seeks  in  vain  to  grasp  them,  and  interprets  them  without 
confidence,  as  when  one  fancies  in  a  cloud  resemblances  to 
creatures  or  things.  Whoever  has  sought  on  a  dark  night 
to  discern  phenomena  on  a  distant  horizon  can  form  an  idea 
of  the  picture  which  the  world  of  thought  presents  to  the 
mind  of  an  asthenic.  Lo  there  !  a  dark  mass  !  What  is  it  ? 
A  tree  ?  A  hayrick  ?  A  robber  ?  A  beast  of  prey  ?  Ought 
one  to  fly  ?  Ought  one  to  attack  it  ?  The  incapacity  to 
recognise  the  object,  more  guessed  at  than  perceived,  fills 
him  with  uneasiness  and  anxiety.  This  is  just  the  condition 
of  the  mind  of  an  asthenic  in  the  presence  of  his  liminal 
presentations.  He  believes  he  sees  in  them  a  hundred  things 
at  once,  and  he  brings  all  the  forms  that  he  seems  to  discern 
into  connection  with  the  principal  presentation  which  has 
aroused  them.  He  has,  however,  a  strong  feeling  that  this 
connection  is  incomprehensible  and  inexplicable.  He  combines 
presentations  into  a  thought  which  is  in  contradiction  to  all 
experience,  but  which  he  must  look  upon  as  equal  in  validity  to 
all  his  remaining  thoughts  and  opinions,  because  it  originated  in 
the  same  way.  And  even  if  he  wishes  to  make  clear  to  himself 
what  is  really  the  content  of  his  judgment,  and  of  what  par- 
ticular presentations  it  is  composed,  he  observes  that  these  pre- 
sentations are,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  nothing  but  unrecognisable 
adumbrations  of  presentations,  to  which  he  vainly  seeks  to  give 
a  name.  Now,  this  state  of  mind,  in  which  a  man  is  straining 
to  see,  thinks  he  sees,  but  does  not  see — in  which  a  man  is  forced 
to  construct  thoughts  out  of  presentations  which  befool  and 
mock  consciousness  like  will-o'-the-wisps  or  marsh  vapours — ■ 
in  which  a  man  fancies  that  he  perceives  inexplicable  relations 
between  distinct  phenomena  and  ambiguous  formless  shadows 
— this  is  the  condition  of  mind  that  is  called  Mysticism. 

From  the  shadowy  thinking  of  the  mystic,  springs  his  washed- 
out  style  of  expression.  Every  word,  even  the  most  abstract, 
connotes  a  concrete  presentation  or  a  concept,  which,  inasmuch 
as  it  is  formed  out  of  the  common  attributes  of  different  concrete 


58  DEGENERATION 

presentations,  betrays  its  concrete  origin.  Language  has  no 
word  for  that  which  one  beheves  he  sees  as  through  a  mist,  with- 
out recognisable  form.  The  mystic,  however,  is  conscious  of 
ghostly  presentations  of  this  sort  without  shape  or  other  qualities, 
and  in  order  to  express  them  he  must  either  use  recognised 
words,  to  which  he  gives  a  meaning  wholly  different  from  that 
which  is  generally  current,  or  else,  feeling  the  inadequacy  of 
the  fund  of  language  created  by  those  of  sound  mind,  he  forges 
for  himself  special  words  which,  to  a  stranger,  are  generally 
incomprehensible,  and  the  cloudy,  chaotic  sense  of  which  is 
intelligible  only  to  himself;  or,  finally,  he  embodies  the  several 
meanings  which  he  gives  to  his  shapeless  representations  in  as 
many  words,  and  then  succeeds  in  achieving  those  bewildering 
juxtapositions  of  what  is  mutually  exclusive,  those  expressions 
which  can  in  no  way  be  rationally  made  to  harmonize,  but  which 
are  so  typical  of  the  mystic.  He  speaks,  as  did  the  German 
mysticc  of  the  seventeenth  and  eighteenth  centuries,  of  the  '  cold 
fire '  of  hell,  and  of  the  '  dark  light '  of  Satan  ;  or,  he  says,  like  the 
degenerate  in  the  tweniy'-eighth  pathological  case  of  Legrain,"^ 
*  that  God  appeared  to  him  in  the  form  of  luminous  shadows ;' 
or  he  remarks,  as  did  another  of  Legrain's  patients  :-f-  '  You 
have  given  me  an  immutable  evening'  {soiree  imniuahle).X 

The  healthy  reader  or  listener  who  has  confidence  in  his 
own  judgment,  and  tests  with  lucidity  and  self-dependence, 
naturally  discerns  at  once  that  these  mystical  expressions  are 
senseless,  and  do  but  reflect  the  mystic's  confused  manner  of 
thinking.  The  majority  of  mankind,  however,  have  neither 
self-confidence  nor  the  faculty  of  judging,  and  cannot  throw  off 
the  natural  inclination  to  connect  some  meaning  with  every 
word.  And  since  the  words  of  the  mystic  have  no  definite 
meaning  in  themselves,  or  in  their  juxtaposition,  a  certain 
meaning  is  arbitrarily  imputed  to  them,  is  mysteriously  conjured 
into  them.     The  effect  of  the  mystical  method  of  expression  on 

*  Legrain,  op.  cit.^  p.  177.  f  Ibid.,  p.  156. 

X  In  the  chapter  which  treats  of  French  Neomystics,  I  shall  give  a  cluster 
of  such  disconnected  and  mutually  exclusive  expressions,  which  are  quite 
parallel  with  the  instances  cited  by  Legrain,  of  the  manner  of  speech  among 
those  acknowledged  to  be  of  weak  mind.  In  this  place  only  one  passage 
may  be  repeated  from  the  V^e  E.  M.  de  Vogu^,  Le  Roinajt  Russe,  Paris,  18S8, 
in  which  this  mystical  author,  unconsciously  and  involuntarily,  characterizes 
admirably  the  shadowiness  and  emptiness  of  mystic  diction,  while  praising 
it  as  something  superior.  'One  trait,'  he  says  (p.  215),  'they'  (certain 
Russian  authors)  '  have  in  common,  viz.,  the  art  of  awakenmg  series  of  feel- 
ings and  thoughts  by  a  line,  a  word,  by  endless  re-echoings  [rt'so/inances].  .  .  , 
The  words  you  read  on  this  paper  appear  to  be  written,  not  in  length,  but  in 
depth.  They  leave  behind  them  a  train  of  faint  reverberations,  which  are 
gradually  lost,  no  one  knows  where.'  And  p.  227:  'They  see  men  and 
things  in  the  gray  light  of  earliest  dawn.  The  weakly  indicated  outlines  end 
in  a  confused  and  clouded  "perhaps."    .  .  .* 


MYSTICISM  59 

people  who  allow  themselves  to  be  bewildered  is  for  this  reason 
a  very  strong  one.  It  gives  them  food  for  thought,  as  they  call 
it ;  that  is  to  say,  it  allows  them  to  give  way  to  all  kinds  of 
dream-fancies,  which  is  very  much  easier,  and  therefore  more 
agreeable,  than  the  toil  pf  reflecting  on  firmly  outlined  pre- 
sentations and  thoughts  admitting  of  no  evasions  and  ex- 
travagances.* It  transports  their  minds  to  the  same  condition 
of  mental  activity  determined  by  unbridled  association  of 
ideas  that  is  peculiar  to  the  mystic ;  it  awakens  in  them  also 
his  ambiguous,  unutterable  presentations,  and  makes  them 
divine  the  strangest  and  most  impossible  relations  of  things 
to  each  other.  All  the  weak-headed  appear  therefore  *  deep ' 
to  the  mystic,  and  this  designation  has,  from  the  constant 
use  made  of  it  by  them,  become  almost  an  insult.  Only 
very  strong  minds  are  really  deep,  such  as  can  keep  the  pro- 
cesses of  thought  under  the  discipline  of  an  extraordinarily 
powerful  attention.  Such  minds  are  in  a  position  to  exploit 
the  association  of  ideas  in  the  best  possible  way,  to  impart  the 
greatest  sharpness  and  clearness  to  all  representations  which 
through  them  are  called  into  consciousness  ;  to  suppress  them 
firmly  and  rapidly  if  they  are  not  compatible  with  the  rest ;  to 
procure  new  sense-impressions,  if  these  are  necessary  in  order 
to  make  the  presentations  and  judgments  predominant  at  the 
time  in  their  minds  still  more  vivid  and  distinct ;  they  gain  in  this 
way  an  incomparably  clear  picture  of  the  world,  and  discover 
true  relations  among  phenomena  which,  to  a  v/eaker  attention, 
must  always  remain  hidden.  This  true  depth  of  strong  select 
minds  is  wholly  luminous.  It  scares  shadows  out  of  hidden 
corners,  and  fills  abysses  with  radiant  light.  The  mystic's 
pseudo-depth,  on  the  contrary,  is  all  obscurity.  It  causes 
things  to  appear  deep  by  the  same  means  as  darkness,  viz.,  by 
reason  of  its  rendering  their  outlines  imperceptible.  The  mystic 
obliterates  the  firm  outlines  of  phenomena ;  he  spreads  a  veil 
over  them,  and  conceals  them  in  blue  vapour.  He  troubles 
what  is  clear,  and  makes  the  transparent  opaque,  as  does  the 
cuttle-fish  the  waters  of  the  ocean.  He,  therefore,  who  sees 
the  world  through  the  eyes  of  a  mystic,  gazes  into  a  black 
heaving  mass,  in  which  he  can  always  find  what  he  desires, 
although,  and  just  because,  he  actually  perceives  nothing  at 
all.  To  the  weak-headed  everything  which  is  clearly,  firmly 
defined,  and  which,  therefore,  has  strictly  but  one  meaning,  is 

*  '  It  is  certain  that  the  Beautiful  never  has  such  charms  for  us  as  when 
we  read  it  attentively  in  a  language  which  we  only  half  understand.  It  is 
the  amb'guity,  the  uncertainty,  i.e.^  the  pliability  of  words,  which  is  one  of 
their  greatest  advantages,  and  renders  it  possible  to  make  an  exact  [!]  use 
of  them.' — Joubert,  quoted  by  Charles  Morice,  La  Litterature  de  tout-^' 
rheure.     Paris,  1889,  p.  171. 


6o  DEGENERATION 

flat.  To  them  everything  is  profound  which  has  no  meaning, 
and  which,  therefore,  allows  them  to  apply  what  meaning  they 
please.  To  them  mathematical  analysis  is  flat ;  theology  and 
metaphysics,  deep.  The  study  of  Roman  law  is  flat ;  the 
dream-book  and  the  prophecies  of  Nostradamus  are  deep. 
The  forms  assumed  by  pouring  molten  lead  on  New  Year's  Eve 
are  the  true  symbols  of  their  depth. 

The  content  of  mystic  thought  is  determined  by  the  individual 
character  and  level  of  culture  possessed  by  each  degenerate 
and  hysteric.  For  we  should  never  forget  that  the  morbidly- 
affected  or  exhausted  brain  is  only  the  soil  which  receives  the 
seed  sown  by  nurture,  education,  impressions  and  experience 
of  life,  etc.  The  seed-grains  do  not  originate  in  the  soil ;  they 
only  receive  in  and  through  it  their  special  irregularities  of 
development,  their  deformities,  and  crazy  offshoots.  The 
naturalist  who  loses  the  faculty  of  attention  becomes  the 
so-called  'Natural  Philosopher,'  or  the  discoverer,  of  a  fourth 
dimension  in  space,  like  the  unfortunate  Zollner.  A  rough, 
ignorant  person  from  til^e  low  ranks  of  the  people  falls  into  the 
wildest  superstition.  The  mystic,  nurtured  in  religion  and 
nourished  with  dogma,  refers  his  shadowy  impressions  to  his 
beliefs,  and  interprets  them  as  revelations  of  the  nature  of  the 
Trinity,  or  of  the  condition  of  existence  before  birth  or  after 
death.  The  technologist  who  has  fallen  into  mysticism  worries 
over  impossible  inventions,  believes  himself  to  be  on  the  track 
of  the  solution  of  the  problem  of  a  perpetimm  mobile,  devises 
communication  between  earth  and  stars,  shafts  to  the  glowing 
core  of  the  earth,  and  what  not.  The  astronomer  becomes  an 
astrologist,  the  chemist  an  alchemist  and  a  seeker  after  the 
philosopher's  stone  ;  the  mathematician  labours  to  square  the 
circle,  or  to  invent  a  system  in  which  the  notion  of  progress  is 
expressed  by  a  process  of  integration,  the  war  of  1870  by  an 
equation,  and  so  on. 

As  was  set  forth  above,  the  cerebral  cortex  receives  its  stimuli, 
not  only  from  the  external  nerves,  but  also  from  the  interior 
of  the  organism,  from  the  nerves  of  separate  organs,  and  the 
nerve-centres  of  the  spinal  cord  and  the  sympathetic  system. 
Every  excitement  in  these  centres  affects  the  brain-cells,  and 
arouses  in  them  more  or  less  distinct  presentations,  which  are 
necessarily  related  to  the  activity  of  the  centres  from  which 
the  stimulus  proceeds.  A  few  examples  will  make  this  clear, 
even  to  the  uninitiated.  If  the  organism  feels  the  need  of 
nourishment,  and  we  are  hungry,  we  shall  not  only  be  generally 
conscious  of  an  indeterminate  desire  for  food,  but  there  will 
also  arise  in  our  minds  definite  representations  of  dishes,  of 
served  repasts,  and  of  all  the  accessories  of  eating.  If  we,  from 
some  cause,  maybe  an  affection  of  the  heart  or  lungs,  cannot 


MYSTICISM  61 

breathe  freely,  we  have  not  only  a  hunger  for  air,  but  also 
accompanying  ideas  of  an  uneasy  nature,  presentiments  of 
unknown  dangers,  melancholy  memories,  etc.,  i.e.,  representa- 
tions of  circumstances  which  tend  to  deprive  us  of  breath  or 
affect  us  oppressively.  During  sleep  also  organic  stimuli  exert 
this  influence  on  the  cerebral  cortex,  and  to  them  we  owe  the 
so-called  somatic  dreams  (Leihestrdimie),  i.e.,  dream -images 
about  the  functioning  of  any  organs  which  happen  not  to  be 
in  a  normal  condition. 

Now,  it  is  known  that  certain  organic  nerve-centres,  the 
sexual  centres,  namely,  in  the  spinal  cord  and  the  medulla 
oblongata,  are  frequently  malformed,  or  morbidly  irritated 
among  the  degenerate.  The  stimuli  proceeding  from  them 
therefore  awaken,  in  the  brain  of  patients  of  this  sort,  presenta- 
tions which  are  more  or  less  remotely  connected  with  the 
sexual  activity.  In  the  consciousness,  therefore,  of  such  a 
subject  there  always  exist,  among  the  other  presentations  which 
are  aroused  by  the  varying  stimuli  of  the  external  world,  presen- 
tations of  a  sexual  character,  erotic  thoughts  being  associated 
with  every  impression  of  beings  and  things.  In  this  way  he 
attains  to  a  state  of  mind  in  which  he  divines  mysterious  rela- 
tions among  all  possible  objective  phenomena,  e.g.,  a  railway- 
train,  the  title  of  his  newspaper,  a  piano  on  the  one  hand,  and 
woman  on  the  other;  and  feels  emotions  of  an  erotic  nature  at 
sights,  words,  odours,  which  would  produce  no  such  impres- 
sion on  the  mind  of  a  sound  person,  emotions  which  he 
refers  to  unknown  qualities  in  those  sights,  words,  etc.  Hence 
it  comes  that  in  most  cases  mysticism  distinctly  takes  on  a 
decidedly  erotic  colouring,  and  the  mystic,  if  he  interprets  his 
inchoate  liminal  presentations,  always  tends  to  ascribe  to  them 
an  erotic  import.  The  mixture  of  super-sensuousness  and 
sensuality,  of  religious  and  amorous  rapture,  which  characterizes 
mystic  thought,  has  been  noticed  even  by  those  observers 
who  do  not  understand  in  what  way  it  is  brought  about. 

The  mysticism  which  I  have  hitherto  investigated  is  the 
incapacity,  due  to  weakness  of  will,  either  innate  or  acquired, 
to  guide  the  work  of  the  association  of '  ideas  by  attention,  to 
draw  shadowy  liminal  representations  into  the  bright  focal  circle 
of  consciousness,  and  to  suppress  presentations  which  are  in- 
compatible with  those  attended  to.  There  exists,  however, 
another  form  of  mysticism,  the  cause  of  which  is  not  defective 
attention,  but  an  anomaly  in  the  sensitivity  of  the  brain  and 
nervous  system.  In  the  healthy  organism  the  afferent  nervco 
convey  impressions  of  the  external  world  in  their  full  freshness 
to  the  brain,  and  the  stimulation  of  the  brain-cell  is  in  direct 
ratio  to  the  intensity  of  the  stimulus  conducted  to  it.  Not  so 
is   the  deportment  of  a  degenerate   or   exhausted  organism. 


62  DEGENERATION 

Here  the  brain  may  have  forfeited  its  normal  irritability ;  it  is 
blunted,  and  is  only  feebly  excited  b}'  stimuli  conveyed  to  it. 
Such  a  brain,  as  a  rule,  never  succeeds  in  elaborating  sharply- 
defined  impressions.  Its  thoughts  are  always  shadowy  and 
confounded.  There  is,  however,  no  occasion  for  me  to  depict 
in  detail  the  characteristics  of  its  mental  procedure,  for  in  the 
higher  species  of  the  degenerate  a  blunted  brain  is  hardly  ever 
met  with,  and  plays  no  part  in  art  or  literature.  To  the 
possessor  of  a  sluggishly-reacting  brain  it  hardly  ever  occurs 
to  compose  or  paint.  He  is  of  account  only  as  forming  the 
creative  mystic's  partial  and  grateful  public.  Inadequate 
excitability  may  moreover  be  a  property  of  the  sensory  nerves. 
This  irregularity  leads  to  anomalies  in  mental  life,  with  which 
I  shall  deal  exhaustively  in  the  next  book.  Finally,  instead  of 
slow  reaction  there  may  exist  excessive  excitability,  and  this 
may  be  peculiar  to  the  whole  nervous  system  and  brain,  or 
only  to  a  portion  of  the  latter.  A  generally  excessive  excita- 
bility produces  those  morbidly-sensitive  natures  in  whom  the 
most  insignificant  phenomena  create  the  most  astonishing 
perceptions  ;  who  hear  the  '  sobbing  of  the  evening  glow,' 
shudder  at  the  contact  of  a  flower;  distinguish  thrilling 
prophecies  and  fearful  threatenings  in  the  sighing  of  the  wind, 
etc.^  Excessive  irritability  of  particular  groups  of  cells  of  the 
cerebral  cortex  gives  rise  to  other  phenomena.  In  the  affected 
part  of  the  brain,  stimulated  either  externally  or  by  adjacent 
stimuli,  in  other  words,  by  sense  impressions  or  by  association, 
the  disturbance  does  not  in  this  case  proceed  in  a  natural  ratio 
to  the  strength  of  the  exciting  cause,  but  is  stronger  and  more 
lasting  than  is  warranted  by  the  stimulus.  The  aroused  group 
of  cells  returns  to  a  state  of  rest  either  with  difficulty  or  not 
at  all.  It  attracts  large  quantities  of  nutriment  for  purposes 
of  absorption,  withdrawing  them  from  the  other  parts  of  the 
brain.  It  works  like  a  machine  which  an  unskilful  hand  has 
set  in  motion  but  cannot  stop.  If  the  normal  action  of  the 
brain-cells  may  be  compared  to  quiet  combustion,  the  action 
of  a  morbidly-irritable  group  of  cells  may  be  said  to  resemble 
an  explosion,  and  one,  too,  which  is  both  violent  and  persistent. 
With  the  stimulus  there  flames  forth  in  consciousness  a  presen- 
tation, or  train  of  presentations,  conceptions  and  reasonings, 
which  suffuse  the  mind  as  with  the  glare  of  a  conflagration, 
outshining  all  other  ideas. 

*  Gerard  de  Nerval,  Le  Rive  et  la  Vie,  Paris,  1868,  p.  53  :  'Everything  in 
Nature  assumed  a  different  aspect.  Mysterious  voices  issued  from  plants, 
trees,  animals,  the  smallest  insects,  to  warn  and  to  encourage  me.  I  dis- 
cerned mysterious  turns  in  the  utterances  of  my  companions,  and  under- 
stood their  purport.  Even  formless  and  inanimate  things  ministered  to  the 
workings  of  my  mind.'  Here  is  a  perfect  instance  of  that  '  comprehension  of 
the  mysterious'  which  is  one  of  the  most  common  fancies  of  the  insane. 


MYSTICISM  63 

The  degree  of  exclusiveness  and  insistence  in  the  predomi- 
nance of  any  presentation  is  in  proportion  to  the  degree  of 
morbid  irritability  in  the  particular  tract  of  brain  by  which  it 
is  elaborated.  Where  the  degree  is  not  excessive  there  arise 
obsessions  which  the  consciousness  recognises  as  morbid. 
They  do  not  preclude  the  coexistence  of  healthy  functioning  of 
the  brain,  and  consciousness  acquires  the  habit  of  treating 
these  coexistent  obsessions  as  foreign  to  itself,  and  of  banish- 
ing them  from  its  presentations  and  judgments.  In  aggra- 
vated cases  these  obsessions  grow  into  fixed  ideas.  The 
immoderately  excitable  portions  of  the  brain  work  out  their 
ideas  with  such  liveliness  that  consciousness  is  filled  with 
them,  and  can  no  longer  distinguish  them  from  such  as  are  the 
result  of  sense-impressions,  the  nature  and  strength  of  which 
they  accurately  reflect.  Then  we  reach  the  stage  of  hallucina- 
tions and  delirium.  Finally,  in  the  last  stage,  comes  ecstasy, 
which  Ribot  calls  *  the  acute  form  of  the  effort  after  unity  of 
consciousness.'  In  ecstasy  the  excited  part  of  the  brain  works 
with  such  violence  that  it  suppresses  the  functioning  of  all  the 
rest  of  the  brain.  The  ecstatic  subject  is  completely  insensible 
to  external  stimuli.  There  is  no  perception,  no  representation, 
no  grouping  of  presentations  into  concepts,  and  of  concepts  into 
judgments  and  reasoning.  A  single  presentation,  or  group  of  pre- 
sentations, fills  up  consciousness.  These  presentations  are  of  ex- 
treme distinctness  and  clearness.  Consciousness  is,  as  it  were, 
flooded  with  the  blinding  light  of  mid-day.  There  therefore  takes 
place  exactly  the  reverse  of  what  has  been  noticed  in  the  case  of 
the  ordinary  mystic.  The  ecstatic  state  is  associated  with  ex- 
tremely intense  emotions,  in  which  the  highest  bliss  is  mixed 
with  pain.  These  emotions  accompany  every  strong  and 
excessive  functioning  of  the  nerve-cells,  every  extraordinary 
and  violent  decomposition  of  nerve-nutriment.  The  feeling  of 
voluptuousness  is  an  example  of  the  phenomena  accompanying 
extraordinary  decompositions  in  a  nerve-cell.  In  healthy 
persons  the  sexual  nerve-centres  are  the  only  ones  which, 
conformably  with  their  functions,  are  so  differentiated  and  so 
adapted  that  they  exercise  no  uniform  or  lasting  activity,  but, 
for  by  far  the  greatest  part  of  the  time,  are  perfectly  tranquil, 
storing  up  large  quantities  of  nutriment  in  order,  during  very 
short  periods,  to  decompose  this  suddenly  and,  as  it  r^ere, 
explosively.  Every  nerve-centre  which  operates  in  this  way 
would  procure  us  voluptuous  emotion  ;  but  precisely  among 
healthy  persons  there  are,  except  the  sexual  nerve-centres, 
none  which  are  compelled  to  act  in  this  manner,  in  order  to 
serve  the  purpose  of  the  organism.  Among  the  degenerate, 
on  the  contrary,  particular  morbidly  excited  brain-centres  oper- 
ate in  this  way,  and  the  emotions  of  delight  which  accompany 


64  DEGENERATION 

their  explosive  activity  are  more  powerful  than  sexual  feelings, 
in  proportion  as  the  brain-centres  are  more  sensitive  than 
the  subordinate  and  more  sluggish  spinal  centres.  One  may 
completely  believe  the  assurances  of  great  ecstatics,  such  as 
a  St.  Theresa,  a  Mohammed,  an  Ignatius  Loyola,  that  the 
bliss  accompanying  their  ecstatic  visions  is  unhke  anything 
earthly,  and  almost  more  than  a  mortal  can  bear.  This  latter 
statement  proves  that  they  were  conscious  of  the  sharp  pain 
which  accompanies  nerve-action  in  over-excited  brain-cells, 
and  which,  on  careful  analysis,  may  be  distinguished  in  every 
very  strong  feeling  of  pleasure.  The  circumstance  that  the 
only  normal  organic  sensation  known  to  us  which  resembles 
that  of  ecstasy  is  the  sexual  feeling,  explains  the  fact  that 
ecstatics  connect  their  ecstatic  presentations  by  way  of  associa- 
tion with  the  idea  of  love,  and  describe  the  ecstasy  itself  as  a 
kind  of  supernatural  act  of  love,  as  a  union  of  an  ineffably  high 
and  pure  sort  with  God  or  the  Blessed  Virgin.  This  drawing 
near  to  God  and  the  saints  is  the  natural  result  of  a  religious 
training,  which  begets  the  habit  of  looking  on  everything 
inexplicable  as  supernatural,  and  of  bringing  it  into  connection 
with  the  doctrines  of  faith. 

We  have  now  seen  that  mysticism  depends  upon  the  in- 
capacity to  control  the  association  of  ideas  by  the  attention, 
and  that  this  incapacity  results  from  weakness  of  will ;  while 
ecstasy  is  a  consequence  of  the  morbid  irritability  of  special 
brain-centres.  The  incapacity  of  being  attentive  occasions, 
however,  besides  mysticism,  other  eccentricities  of  the  intellect, 
which  may  here  be  briefly  mentioned.  In  extreme  stages  of 
degeneration,  e.g.,  in  idiocy,  attention  is  utterly  wanting.  No 
stimulus  is  able  to  arouse  it,  nor  is  there  any  external  means 
of  making  an  impression  on  the  brain  of  the  idiot,  and  awaken- 
ing his  consciousness  to  definite  presentations.  In  less  complete 
degeneration,  i.e.,  in  cases  of  mental  debility,  attention  may 
exist,  but  it  is  extremely  weak  and  fleeting.  Imbeciles  (weak 
minds)  present,  in  graduated  intensity,  the  phenomenon  of 
fugitive  thought  {Gedankenflucht),  i.e.,  the  incapacity  to  retain, 
or  to  unite  in  a  concept  or  judgment,  the  representations 
automatically  and  reciprocally  called  into  consciousness  in 
conformity  with  the  laws  of  association,  and  also  that  of 
reverie,  which  is  another  form  of  fugitive  thought,  but  which 
differs  from  it  in  that  the  particular  representations  of  which  it 
is  composed  are  feebly  elaborated,  and  are  therefore  shadowy 
and  undefined,  sometimes  so  much  so  that  an  imbecile,  who 
in  the  midst  of  his  reveries  is  asked  of  what  he  is  thinking,  is 
not  able  to  state  exactly  what  happens  to  be  present  in  his 
consciousness.  All  observers  maintain  that  the  '  higher  de- 
generate '   is   frequently    *  original,   brilliant,   witty,'   and   that 


MYSTICISM  6s 

whereas  he  is  incapable  of  activity  which  demands  attention 
and  self-control,  he  has  strong  artistic  inclinations.  All  these 
peculiarities  are  to  be  explained  by  the  uncontrolled  working 
of  association. 

The  reader  should  recall  the  procedure  of  that  brain  which  is 
incapable  of  attention.  A  perception  arouses  a  representation 
which  summons  into  consciousness  a  thousand  other  associated 
representations.  The  healthy  mind  suppresses  the  representa- 
tions which  are  contradictory  to,  or  not  rationally  connected  with, 
the  first  perception.  This  the  weak-minded  cannot  do.  The  mere 
similarity  of  sound  determines  the  current  of  his  thought.  He 
hears  a  word,  and  feels  compelled  to  repeat  it,  once  or  oftener, 
sometimes  to  the  extent  of  '  Echolalia  ';  or  it  calls  into  his  con- 
sciousness other  words  similar  to  it  in  sound,  but  not  connected 
with  it  in  meaning,*  whereupon  he  thinks  and  talks  in  a  series 
of  completely  disconnected  rhymes ;  or  else  the  words  have, 
besides  their  similarity  of  sound,  a  very  remote  and  weak 
connection  of  meaning ;  this  gives  rise  to  punning.  Ignorant 
persons  are  inclined  to  call  the  rhyming  and  punning  of 
imbeciles  witty,  not  bearing  in  mind  that  this  way  of  com- 
bining ideas  according  to  the  sound  of  the  words  frustrates 
the  purposes  of  the  intellect  by  obscuring  the  apprehension  of 
the  real  connections  of  phenomena.  No  witticism  has  ever 
made  easier  the  discovery  of  any  truth.  And  whoever  has 
tried  to  hold  a  serious  conversation  with  a  quibbling  person  of 
weak  mind  will  have  recognised  the  impossibility  of  keeping 
him  in  check,  of  getting  from  him  a  logical  conclusion,  or  of 
making  him  comprehend  a  fact  or  a  causal  connection.    When 

*  An  imbecile  degenerate,  the  history  of  whose  illness  is  related  by  Dr.  G. 
Ballet,  said  :  '  II  y  a  mille  ans  que  le  monde  est  monde.  Milan,  la  cathddrale 
de  Milan'  {La  Semame  tnedicale,  1892,  p.  133).  'Mille  ans'  (a  thousand 
years)  calls  up  in  his  consciousness  the  like-sounding  word  '  Milan,'  although 
there  is  absolutely  no  rational  connection  between  the  two  ideas.  A 
graphomaniac  named  Jasno,  whose  case  is  cited  by  Lombroso,  says  'la  main 
se  mfene'  (the  hand  guides  itself).  He  then  begins  to  speak  of  '  semaine ' 
(week),  and  continues  to  play  upon  the  like-sounding  words  'se  m^ne,' 
'semaine,'  and  'main'  {Genie  tind  Irsinit,  p.  264).  In  the  book  of  a 
German  graphomaniac  entitled  Rembrandt  ah  Erzieher,  Leipzig,  1890  (a 
book  which  I  shall  have  to  refer  to  more  than  once,  as  an  example  of  the 
lucubrations  of  a  weak  mind),  I  find,  on  the  very  first  pages,  the  following 
juxtaposition  of  words  according  to  their  resemblance  in  sound  :  '  Sie 
verkiinden  eine  Riickkehr  .  .  .  zur  Einheit  und  Feinheit '  (p.  3).  'je 
ungeschliffener  Jemand  ist,  destomehr  ist  an  ihm  zu  schleifen  '  (p.  4).  'Jede 
rechte  Bildung  ist  bildend,  formend,  schopferisch,  und  also  klinstlerisch  ' 
(p.  8).  '  Rembrandt  war  nicht  nur  ein  protestantischer  Kiinstler,  sondern 
auch  ein  kiinsilerischer  Protestant'  (p.  14).  '  Sein  Hundert  guldenblatt 
allein  konnte  schon  als  ein  Tausendgiildenkraut  gegen  so  mancherlei 
Schaden  .  .  .  dienen'  (p.  23).  '  Christus  und  Rembrandt  haben  .  .  .  darin 
etwas  Gemeinsames,  dass  Jener  die  religiose,  dieser  die  kiinstlerische 
Armseligkeit — die  Seligkeit  der  Armen — zu  .  .  .  Ehren  bringt'  (p.  25),  etc. 


66  DEGENERATION 

presentations  are  connected,  not  merely  according  to  auditory 
impressions  of  simple  similarity  of  sound,  but  also  according  to 
the  other  laws  of  association,  those  juxtapositions  of  words  are 
effected  which  the  ignorant  designate  as  *  original  modes  of 
expression,'  and  which  confer  upon  their  originator  the  reputa- 
tion of  a  'brilliant'  conversationalist  or  author.  SoUier* 
cites  some  characteristic  examples  of  the  'original'  modes  of 
expression  of  imbeciles.  One  said  to  his  comrade,  '  You  look 
like  a  piece  of  barley- sugar  put  out  to  nurse.'  Another  ex- 
presses the  thought  that  his  friend  made  him  laugh  so  much 
he  could  not  restrain  his  saliva,  by  saying,  *  Tu  me  fais  haver 
des  ronds  de  chapeaux.'  The  junction  of  words  which  by 
their  sense  have  little  or  no  relation  to  each  other  is,  as  a  rule, 
an  evidence  of  imbecilit)',  although  it  often  enough  is  sensa- 
tional and  mirth-provoking.  The  cleverness  which  in  Paris  is 
called  blague,  or  hoidevard-esprit,  the  psychologist  discerns  as 
imbecility.  That  this  condition  goes  hand-in-hand  with  artistic 
tendencies  is  easy  to  understand.  All  callings  which  require 
knowledge  of  fact,  and  adaptation  to  it,  presuppose  attention. 
This  capacity  is  wanting  in  imbeciles  ;  hence  they  are  not 
fitted  for  serious  professions.  Certain  artistic  occupations, 
especially  those  of  a  subordinate  kind,  are,  on  the  contrary, 
quite  compatible  with  uncontrolled  association  of  ideas,  reverie, 
or  fugitive  thought,  because  they  exact  only  a  very  limited 
adaptation  to  fact,  and  therefore  have  great  attractions  for 
persons  of  weak  intellect. 

Between  the  process  of  thought  and  movement  there  exists 
an  exact  parallelism  explicable  by  the  fact  that  the  elaboration  of 
presentations  is  nothing  else  than  a  modification  of  the  elabora- 
tion of  the  motor  impulses.  The  phenomena  of  movement  make 
the  mechanism  of  thought  more  easily  apprehensible  to  the  lay 
mind.  The  automatic  association  of  muscular  contractions 
corresponds  to  the  association  of  ideas,  their  co-ordination  to 
attention.  As  with  defective  attention  there  ensues  no  intelli- 
gent thought,  so  with  faulty  co-ordination  there  can  be  no 
appropriate  movement.  Palsy  is  equivalent  to  idiocy,  St. 
Vitus's  dance  to  obsessions  and  fixed  ideas.  The  attempts 
at  witticisms  of  the  weak-minded  are  like  beating  the  air  with 
a  sword  ;  the  notions  and  judgments  of  sound  brains  are  like 
the  careful  thrust  and  parry  of  skilful  fencing.  Mysticism 
finds  its  reflected  image  in  the  aimless  and  powerless,  often 
hardly  discernible,  movements  of  senile  and  paralytic  trembling; 
and  ecstasy  is,  for  a  brain-centre,  the  same  state  as  a  pro- 
longed and  violent  tonic  contraction  for  a  muscle  or  group 
of  muscles. 

*  Dr.  Paul  Sollier,  Psychologie  de  V Idiot  et  de  Vlmbdcile,  Paris,  1891, 
P-  153- 


MYSTICISM  67 

CHAPTER  II. 

THE   PRE-RAPHAELITES. 

Mysticism  is  the  habitual  condition  of  the  human  race,  and 
in  no  way  an  eccentric  disposition  of  mind.  A  strong  brain 
which  works  out  every  presentation  to  its  full  clearness — a  power- 
ful will,  which  sustains  the  toiling  attention — these  are  rare 
gifts.  Musing  and  dreaming,  the  free  ranging  of  imagination, 
disporting  itself  at  its  own  sweet  will  along  the  meandering 
pathways  of  association,  demand  less  exertion,  and  will  there- 
fore be  widely  preferred  to  the  hard  labour  of  observation  and 
intelligent  judgment.  Hence  the  consciousness  of  men  is  filled 
with  a  vast  mass  of  ambiguous,  shadowy  ideas  ;  they  see,  as  a 
rule,  in  unmistakable  clearness  only  those  phenomena  which 
are  daily  repeated  in  their  most  intimate  personal  experience, 
and,  among  these,  those  only  which  are  the  objects  of  their 
immediate  needs. 

Speech,  that  great  auxiliary  in  the  interchange  of  human 
thought,  is  no  unmixed  benefit.  It  brings  to  the  consciousness 
of  most  men  incomparably  more  obscurity  than  brightness. 
It  enriches  their  memory  with  auditory  images,  not  with  well- 
defined  pictures  of  reality.  A  word,  whether  written  or  spoken, 
excites  a  sense  (sight  or  hearing),  and  sets  up  an  activity  in 
the  brain.  True  ;  it  always  arouses  presentation.  A  series  of 
musical  tones  does  the  same.  At  an  unknown  word,  at  'Abra- 
cadabra,' at  a  proper  name,  at  a  tune  scraped  on  the  fiddle, 
we  also  think  of  something,  but  it  is  either  indefinite,  or  non- 
sensical, or  arbitrary.  It  is  absolute  waste  of  labour  to  attempt 
to  give  a  man  new  ideas,  or  to  widen  the  circle  of  his  positive 
knowledge,  by  means  of  a  word.  It  can  never  do  more  than 
awaken  such  ideas  as  he  already  possesses.  Ultimately  every- 
one works  only  with  the  material  for  presentation  which  he  has 
acquired  by  attentive  personal  observation  of  the  phenomena 
of  the  universe.  Nevertheless,  he  cannot  do  without  the  stimulus 
conveyed  to  him  by  speech.  The  desire  for  knowledge,  without 
any  hiatus,  of  all  that  is  in  the  world,  is  irresistible  ;  while  the 
opportunities  of  perception  at  first  hand,  even  in  the  most 
favourable  circumstances,  are  limited.  What  we  have  not  our- 
selves experienced  we  let  others,  the  dead  and  the  living,  tell  us. 
The  word  must  take  the  place  of  the  direct  impressions  of  sense 
for  us.  And  then  it  is  itself  an  impression  of  sense,  and  our  con- 
sciousness is  accustomed  to  put  this  impression  on  a  level  with 
others,  to  estimate  the  idea  aroused  by  this  word  equally  with 


68  DEGENERATION 

those  ideas  which  have  been  acquired  through  the  simultaneous 
co-operation  of  all  the  senses,  through  observations,  and  hand- 
ling on  every  side,  through  moving  and  lifting,  listening  to,  and 
smelling  the  object  itself.  This  parity  of  values  is  an  error  of 
thought.  It  is  false  in  any  case  if  a  word  do  more  than  call 
into  consciousness  a  memory -image  of  a  presentation,  which 
it  has  acquired  through  personal  experience,  or  a  concept  com- 
posed of  such  presentations.  Nevertheless,  we  all  of  us  commit 
this  fallacy.  We  forget  that  language  was  only  developed  by  the 
race  as  a  means  of  communication  between  individuals,  that  it 
is  a  social  function,  but  not  a  source  of  knowledge.  Words  are 
in  reality  much  more  a  source  of  error.  For  a  man  can  only 
actually  know  what  he  has  directly  experienced  and  attentively 
observed,  not  what  he  has  merely  heard  or  read,  and  what  he 
repeats  ;  and  if  he  would  free  himself  from  the  errors  which 
words  have  led  him  into,  he  has  no  other  means  than  the 
increase  of  his  sterling  representative  material,  through  personal 
experience  and  attentive  observation.  And  since  man  is  never 
in  a  position  to  do  this  save  within  certain  limits,  everyone  is 
condemned  to  carry  on  the  operations  of  his  consciousness  with 
direct  presentations,  and  at  the  same  time  with  words.  The 
intellectual  structure  which  is  built  up  with  materials  of  such 
unequal  solidity  reminds  one  of  those  dilapidated  Gothic  churches 
which  brainless  masons  used  to  patch  up  with  a  plaster  of  soot 
and  cheese,  giving  it,  by  means  of  a  wash,  the  appearance  of 
stone.  To  the  eye  the  frontage  is  irreproachable,  but  many 
parts  of  the  building  could  not  for  one  moment  resist  a  vigorous 
blow  of  criticism. 

Many  erroneous  explanations  of  natural  phenomena,  the 
majority  of  false  scientific  hypotheses,  all  religious  and  meta- 
physical systems,  have  arisen  in  such  a  way  that  mankind,  in 
their  thoughts  and  opinions,  have  interwoven,  as  equally  valid 
components,  ideas  suggested  by  words  only,  together  with  such 
as  were  derived  from  direct  perception.  The  words  were  either 
invented  by  mystics  and  originally  indicated  nothing  beyond 
the  unbalanced  condition  of  a  weak  and  diseased  brain,  or, 
whereas  they  at  first  expressed  a  definite,  correct  presentation, 
their  proper  meaning  was  not  caught  by  those  who  repeated 
them,  and  by  them  was  arbitrarily  falsified,  differently  interpreted, 
or  blurred.  Innate  or  acquired  weakness  of  mind  and  ignorance 
lead  alike  to  the  goal  of  mysticism.  The  brain  of  the  ignorant 
elaborates  presentations  that  are  nebulous,  because  they  are  sug- 
gested by  words,  not  by  the  thing  itself,  and  the  stimulus  of  a  word 
is  not  strong  enough  to  produce  vigorous  action  in  the  brain-cells  ; 
moreover,  the  brain  of  the  exhausted  and  degenerate  elaborates 
nebulous  presentations,  because  in  any  case  it  is  not  in  a  condition 
to  respond  to  a  stimulus  by  vigorous  action.     Hence  ignorance  is 


MYSTICISM  69 

artificial   weakness   of  mind,  just  as,  conversely,   weakness   of 
mind  is  the  natural  organic  incapacity  for  knowledge. 

In  one  part  or  another  of  his  mental  field  of  vision  each  of 
us  therefore  is  a  mystic.  From  all  the  phenomena  which  he  him- 
self has  not  observed,  everyone  forms  shadowy,  unstable  presen- 
tations. Nevertheless,  it  is  easy  to  distinguish  healthy  men  from 
those  who  deserve  the  designation  of  mystic.  There  is  a  sure  sign 
for  each.  The  healthy  man  is  in  a  condition  to  obtain  sharply- 
defined  presentations  from  his  own  immediate  perceptions,  and  to 
comprehend  their  real  connection.  The  mystic,  on  the  contrary, 
mixes  his  ambiguous,  cloudy,  half-formed  liminal  representations 
with  his  immediate  perceptions,  which  are  thereby  disturbed  and 
obscured.  Even  the  most  superstitious  peasant  has  definite  presen- 
tations of  his  field  work,  of  the  feeding  of  his  cattle,  and  of  look- 
ing after  his  landmark.  He  may  believe  in  the  weather-witch, 
because  he  does  not  know  how  the  rain  comes  to  pass,  but  he 
does  not  wait  a  moment  for  the  angels  to  plough  for  him.  He 
may  have  his  field  blessed,  because  the  real  conditions  of  the 
thriving  or  perishing  of  his  seed  are  beyond  his  ken,  but  he  will 
never  so  put  his  trust  in  supernatural  favour  as  to  omit  sowing 
his  grain.  All  the  genuine  mystic's  presentations,  on  the  con- 
trary, even  those  of  daily  experience,  are  permeated  and  over- 
grown with  that  which  is  incomprehensible,  because  it  is  without 
form.  His  want  of  attention  makes  him  incapable  of  appre- 
hending the  real  connecting  links  between  the  simplest  and 
most  obviously  related  phenomena,  and  leads  him  to  deduce 
them  from  one  or  another  of  the  hazy,  intangible  presentations 
wavering  and  wandering  in  his  consciousness. 

There  is  no  human  phenomenon  in  the  art  and  poetry  of  the 
century  with  whom  this  characteristic  of  the  mystic  so  com- 
pletely agrees  as  with  the  originators  and  supporters  of  the 
Pre-Raphaelite  movement  in  England.  It  may  be  taken  for 
granted  that  the  history  of  this  movement  is  known — at  least, 
in  its  outlines — and  that  it  will  suffice  here  to  recall  briefly  its 
principal  features.  The  three  painters,  Dante  Gabriel  Rossetti, 
Holman  Hunt,  and  Millais,  in  the  year  1848,  entered  into  a 
league  which  was  called  the  Pre  -  Raphaelite  Brotherhood. 
After  the  association  was  formed,  the  painters  F.  G.  Stephens 
and  James  Collinson,  and  the  sculptor  Thomas  Woolner,  joined 
it.  In  the  spring  of  1849  they  exhibited  in  London  a  number 
of  pictures  and  statues,  all  of  which,  in  addition  to  the  signature 
of  the  artist,  bore  the  common  mark  P.R.B.  The  result  was 
crushing.  Hitherto  no  hysterical  fanatic  had  tyrannically  forced 
on  the  public  a  belief  in  the  beauty  of  these  works,  nor  was 
it  as  yet  under  the  domination  of  the  fashion,  invented  by 
aesthetic  snobs,  of  considering  their  admiration  as  a  mark  of 
distinction,  and  of  membership  of  a  narrow  and  exclusive  circle 


70  DEGENERATION 

of  the  aristocrats  of  taste.  Hence  it  confronted  them  without 
prepossession,  and  found  them  incomprehensible  and  funny. 
The  contemplation  of  them  roused  inextinguishable  laughter 
among  the  good-humoured,  and  wrath  among  the  morose,  who 
are  nettled  when  they  think  themselves  made  fools  of.  The 
brotherhood  did  not  renew  their  attempt ;  the  P.R.B.  exhibi- 
tion was  never  repeated;  the  league  broke  up  of  itself.  Its 
members  no  longer  added  the  shibboleth  of  initials  after  their 
names.  They  formed  no  longer  a  closed  association,  involving 
formal  admission,  but  only  a  loosely-knit  circle,  consisting  of 
friends  having  tastes  in  common,  and  who  were  perpetually 
modifying  its  character  by  their  joining  and  retiring.  In  this 
way  it  was  joined  by  Burne  Jones  and  Madox  Brown,  who  also 
passed  for  Pre-Raphaelites,  although  they  had  not  belonged 
to  the  original  P.R.B.  Later  on  the  designation  was  extended 
from  painters  to  poets,  and  among  the  pre  -  Raphaelites,  in 
addition  to  D.  G.  Rossetti  (who  soon  exchanged  the  brush  for 
the  pen),  were  Algernon  Charles  Swinburne  and  William 
Morris. 

What  are  the  governing  thoughts  and  aims  of  the  Pre- 
Raphaelite  movement?  An  Anglo-German  critic  of  repute, 
F.  Hiififer,*  thinks  that  he  answers  this  question  when  he 
says :  '  I  myself  should  call  this  movement  the  renaissance  of 
mediaeval  feeling.'  Apart  from  the  fact  that  these  words  signify 
nothing,  since  every  man  may  interpret  'mediaeval  feeling'  as 
he  pleases,  the  reference  to  the  Middle  Ages  only  emphasizes  the 
most  external  accompanying  circumstance  of  pre-Raphaelitism, 
leaving  its  essence  entirely  untouched. 

It  is  true  that  the  pre  -  Raphaelites  with  both  brush  and 
pen  betray  a  certain,  though  by  no  means  exclusive,  predilection 
for  the  Middle  Ages ;  but  the  medisevalism  of  their  poems 
and  paintings  is  not  historical,  but  mythical,  and  simply 
denotes  something  outside  time  and  space — a  time  of  dreams 
and  a  place  of  dreams,  where  all  unreal  figures  and  actions 
may  be  conveniently  bestowed.  That  they  decorate  their  un- 
earthly world  with  some  features  which  may  remotely  recall 
mediaevalism  ;  that  it  is  peopled  with  queens  and  knights,  noble 
damozels  with  coronets  on  their  golden  hair,  and  pages  with 
plumed  caps — these  may  be  accounted  for  by  the  prototypes 
which,  perhaps  unconsciously,  hover  before  the  eyes  of  the  pre- 
Raphaelites. 

Movements  in  art  and  literature  do  not  spring  up  suddenly 
and  spontaneously.  They  have  progenitors  from  whom  they 
descend  in  the  natural  course  of  generation.     Pre-Raphaelitism 

*  Poems  by  Dante  Gabriel  Rossetti.  With  a  memoir  of  the  author  by 
Franz  Hiiffer.     Leipzig,  1873,  P-  viii. 


MYSTICISM  71 

is  the  grandrjon  of  German,  and  a  son  of  French,  Romanticism. 
But  in  its  wanderings  through  the  world  Romanticism  has 
suffered  such  alteration  through  the  influence  of  the  changing 
opinions  of  the  times,  and  the  special  characteristics  of  various 
nations,  that  the  English  offspring  bears  scarcely  any  family 
resemblance  to  its  German  ancestor. 

German  romanticism  was  in  its  origin  a  reaction  against  the 
spirit  of  the  French  encyclopaedists,  who  had  held  undisputed 
sway  over  the  eighteenth  century.  Their  criticism  of  ancient 
errors,  their  new  systems  which  were  to  solve  the  riddles  of  the 
world  and  of  the  nature  of  man,  had  at  first  dazzled  and  nearly 
intoxicated  mankind.  They  could  not,  however,  satisfy  in  the 
long-run,  for  they  committed  a  great  fault  in  two  respects. 
Their  knowledge  of  facts  was  insufficient  to  enable  them  to 
explain  the  collective  phenomenon  of  the  universe,  and  they 
looked  upon  man  as  an  intellectual  being.  Proud  of  their 
strictly  logical  and  mathematical  reasoning,  they  overlooked  the 
fact  that  this  is  a  method  of  knowledge,  but  not  knowledge 
itself.  The  logical  apj^aratus  is  a  machine,  which  can  manu- 
facture only  the  material  shot  into  it.  If  the  machine  is  not 
fed,  it  runs  on  empty  and  makes  a  noise,  but  produces  nothing. 
The  condition  of  science  in  the  eighteenth  century  did  not  allow 
the  encyclopaedists  to  make  advantageous  use  of  their  logical 
machine.  They  did  not  take  cognizance  of  this  fact,  however, 
and,  with  their  limited  material  and  much  unconscious  temerity, 
constructed  a  system  which  they  complacently  announced  as  a 
faithful  representation  of  the  system  of  the  universe.  It  was 
soon  discovered  that  the  encyclopaedists,  for  all  their  intellectual 
arrogance,  were  deluding  both  themselves  and  their  followers. 
There  were  known  facts  which  contradicted  their  hasty  explana- 
tions, and  there  was  a  whole  range  of  phenomena  of  which  their 
system  took  no  account,  and  failed  to  cover  as  if  with  too  short 
a  cloak,  and  which  peeped  out  mockingly  at  all  the  seams. 
Hence  the  philosophy  of  the  encyclopaedists  was  kicked  and 
abused,  and  the  same  faults  were  committed  with  respect  to  it 
which  it  had  perpetrated  ;  the  methods  of  intelligent  criticism 
were  mistaken  for  the  results  obtained  by  them.  Because  the 
encyclopaedists,  from  lack  of  knowledge  and  of  natural  facts, 
explained  nature  falsely  and  arbitrarily,  those  who  were  dis- 
appointed and  thirsting  for  knowledge  cried  out,  that  intelligent 
criticism  as  such  was  a  false  method,  that  consistent  reasoning 
led  to  nothing,  that  the  conclusions  of  the  '  Philosophy  of 
Enlightenment '  were  just  as  unproven  and  unprovable  as  those 
of  religion  and  metaphysics,  only  less  beautiful,  colder,  and 
narrower ;  and  mankind  threw  itself  with  fervour  into  all  the 
depths  of  faith  and  superstition,  where  certainly  the  Tree  of 
Knowledge  did  not  grow,  but  where  beautiful  mirages  charmed 


72  DEGENERATION 

the  eye,  and  the  warm  fragrant  springs  of  all  the  emotions 
bubbled  up. 

And  more  fatal  than  the  error  of  their  philosophy  was  the 
false  psychology  of  the  encyclopaedists.  They  believed  that  the 
thoughts  and  actions  of  men  are  determined  by  reason  and 
the  laws  of  consistency,  and  had  no  inkling  that  the  really 
impelling  force  in  thought  and  deed  are  the  emotions,  those 
disturbances  elaborated  in  the  depths  of  the  internal  organs,  and 
the  sources  of  which  elude  consciousness,  but  which  suddenly 
burst  into  it  like  a  horde  of  savages,  not  declaring  whence  they 
come,  submitting  to  no  police  regulations  of  a  civilized  mind, 
and  imperiously  demanding  lodgment.  All  that  wide  region  of 
organic  needs  and  hereditary  impulses,  all  that  E.  von  Hart- 
mann  calls  the  '  Unconscious,'  lay  hidden  from  the  rationalists, 
who  saw  nothing  but  the  narrow  circle  of  the  psychic  life  which 
is  illumined  by  the  little  lamp  of  consciousness.  Fiction  which 
should  depict  mankind  according  to  the  views  of  this  inadequate 
psychology  would  be  absurdly  untrue.  It  had  no  place  for 
passions  and  follies.  It  saw  in  the  world  only  logical  formulae 
on  two  legs,  with  powdered  heads  and  embroidered  coats  of 
fashionable  cut.  The  emotional  nature  took  its  revenge  on  this 
aesthetic  aberration,  breaking  out  in  *  storm  and  stress,'  and  in 
turn  attaching  value  only  to  the  unconscious,  the  inherited 
impulse,  and  the  organic  appetites,  while  it  neglected  entirely 
reason  and  will,  which  are  there  none  the  less. 

Mysticism,  which  rebelled  against  the  application  of  the 
rationalistic  methods  to  explain  the  universe,  and  the  Sturm 
und  Drang,  which  rebelled  against  their  application  to  the 
psychical  life  of  mankind,  were  the  first-fruits  of  romanticism, 
which  is  nothing  but  the  union  and  exaggeration  of  these  two 
revolutionary  movements.  That  it  took  up  with  fondness  the 
form  of  mediaevalism  was  due  to  circumstances  and  the  senti- 
ment of  the  age.  The  beginnings  of  romanticism  coincide  Vi^ith 
the  time  of  the  deepest  humiliation  of  Germany,  and  the  suffering 
of  young  men  of  talent  at  the  ignominy  of  foreign  rule  gave  to 
the  whole  content  of  their  thought  a  patriotic  colouring.  During 
the  Middle  Ages  Germany  had  passed  through  a  period  of  the 
greatest  power  and  intellectual  florescence ;  those  centuries 
which  were  irradiated  at  one  and  the  same  time  by  the  might 
of  the  world-empire  of  the  Hohenstaufen,  by  the  splendour  of 
the  poems  of  the  Court  Minnesingers,  and  by  the  vastness  of  the 
Gothic  cathedrals,  must  naturally  have  attracted  those  spirits 
who,  filled  with  di?gust,  broke  out  against  the  intellectual  jejune- 
ness  and  political  abasement  of  the  times.  They  fled  from 
Napoleon  to  Frederick  Barbarossa,  and  drew  refreshment  with 
Walter  von  der  Vogelweide  from  their  abhorrence  of  Voltaire. 
The  foreign  imitators  of  the  German  romanticists  do  not  knovv 


MYSTICISM  73 

that    if  in    their   flight  from   reality  they  come   to   a   halt   in 
mediaevalism,  they  have  German  patriotism  as  their  pioneer. 

The  patriotic  side  of  romanticism  was,  moreover,  emphas'zcd 
only  by  the  sanest  talents  of  this  tendency.  In  others  it  stands 
revealed  most  signally  as  a  form  of  the  phenomenon  of  degenera- 
tion. The  brothers  Schlegel,  in  their  Athenceum,  give  this  pro- 
gramme of  romanticism  :  '  The  beginning  of  all  poetry  is  to 
suspend  the  course  and  the  laws  of  rationally  thinking  reason, 
and  to  transport  us  again  into  the  lovely  vagaries  of  fancy  and 
the  primitive  chaos  of  human  nature.  .  .  .  The  freewill  of  the 
poet  submits  to  no  law.'  This  is  the  exact  mode  of  thought 
and  expression  of  the  weak-minded,  of  the  imbecile,  whose 
brain  is  incapable  of  following  the  phenomena  of  the  universe 
with  discernment  and  comprehension,  and  who,  with  the  self- 
complacency  which  characterizes  the  weak-minded,  proclaims 
his  infirmity  as  an  advantage,  and  declares  that  his  muddled 
thought,  the  product  of  uncontrolled  association,  is  alone  exact 
and  commendable,  boasting  of  that  for  which  the  sane-minded  are 
pitying  him.  Besides  the  unregulated  association  of  ideas  there 
appears  in  most  romanticists  its  natural  concomitant,  mysticism. 
That  which  enchanted  them  in  the  idea  of  the  Middle  Ages  was 
not  the  vastness  and  might  of  the  German  Empire,  not  the 
fulness  and  beauty  of  the  German  life  of  that  period,  but 
Catholicism  with  its  belief  in  miracles  and  its  worship  of  saints. 
*  Our  Divine  Service,'  writes  H.  von  Kleist,  *  is  nothing  of  the 
kind.  It  appeals  only  to  cold  reason.  A  Catholic  feast  appeals 
profoundly  to  all  the  senses.'  The  obscure  symbolism  of 
Catholicism,  all  the  externals  of  its  priestly  motions,  all  its 
altar  service  so  full  of  mystery,  all  the  magnificence  of  its  vest- 
ments, sacerdotal  vessels  and  works  of  art,  the  overwhelming 
effect  of  the  thunder  of  the  organ,  the  fumes  of  incense,  the 
flashing  monstrance — all  these  undoubtedly  stir  more  confused 
and  ambiguous  adumbrations  of  ideas  than  does  austere  Pro- 
testantism. The  conversion  of  Friedrich  Schlegel,  Adam  MuUer, 
Zacharias  Werner,  Count  Stolberg,  to  Catholicism  is  just  as 
consistent  a  result  as,  to  the  reader  who  has  followed  the  argu- 
ments on  the  psychology  of  mysticism,  it  is  intelligible  that, 
with  these  romanticists,  the  ebullitions  of  piety  are  accompanied 
by  a  sensuousness  which  often  amounts  to  lasciviousness. 

Romanticism  penetrated  into  France  a  generation  later  than 
into  Germany.  The  delay  is  easy  of  historical  explanation.  In 
the  storms  of  the  Revolution  and  the  Napoleonic  wars,  the 
leading  minds  of  the  French  people  had  no  time  to  think  of 
themselves.  They  had  no  leisure  for  testing  the  philosophy  of 
their  encyclopsedists,  to  find  it  inadequate,  reject  it,  and  rise 
up  against  it.  They  devoted  their  whole  energy  to  rough,  bip- 
muscular  deeds  of  war,  and  the  need  for  the  emotional  exercise 


74  DEGENERATION 

afforded  by  art  and  poetry,  asserted  itself  but  feebly,  being 
completely  satisfied  by  the  far  stronger  emotions  of  self-love 
and  despair  produced  by  their  famous  battles  and  cataclysmic 
overthrows.  Esthetic  tendencies  only  reasserted  their  rights 
during  the  half-dormant  period  following  the  battle  of  Waterloo, 
and  then  the  same  causes  led  to  the  same  results  as  in  Germany. 
The  younger  spirits  in  this  case  also  raised  the  flag  of  revolt 
against  the  dominating  aesthetic  and  philosophic  tendencies. 
They  wished  Imagination  to  grapple  with  Reason,  and  place 
its  foot  on  its  neck,  and  they  proclaimed  the  martial  law  of 
passion  against  the  sober  procedure  of  discipline  and  morality. 
Through  Madame  de  Stael  and  A.  W.  Schlegel,  partly  by  the 
latter's  personal  intercourse  with  Frenchmen,  and  partly  by  his 
works,  which  were  soon  translated  into  French,  they  were  in  some 
measure  made  acquainted  with  the  German  movement.  They 
joined  it  perhaps  half  unconsciously.  Of  the  many  impulses 
which  were  active  among  the  German  romanticists,  patriotism 
and  Catholic  mysticism  had  no  influence  on  the  French  mind, 
which  only  lent  itself  to  the  predilection  for  what  was  remote 
in  time  and  space,  and  what  was  free  from  moral  and  mental 
restraints. 

French  romanticism  was  neither  mediaeval  nor  pious.  It  took 
up  its  abode  rather  in  the  Renaissance  period  as  regards  remote- 
ness in  time,  and  in  the  East  or  the  realms  of  faerie,  if  it  wished 
to  be  spacially  remote  from  reality.  In  Victor  Hugo's  works 
the  one  drama  of  Les  Bicrgraves  takes  place  in  the  thirteenth 
century  ;  but  in  all  the  others,  Cromwell,  Maria  Tudor,  Lucrezia 
Borgia,  Angela,  Ruy  Bias,  He7'nani,  Marion  Delorme,  Le  Rot 
s'annise,  the  scenes  were  laid  in  the  sixteenth  and  seventeenth 
centuries  ;  and  his  one  mediaeval  romance,  Notre  Dame  de  Paris, 
can  be  set  over  against  all  the  rest,  from  Han  d'Ishmde,  which 
has  for  its  scene  of  action  a  fancied  Thule,  to  Les  Miserables 
and  I7<^3,  which  take  place  in  an  apocalyptic  Paris  and  in 
a  history  of  the  Revolution  suited  to  the  use  of  hashish- 
smokers.  The  bent  of  French  romanticism  towards  the  Renais- 
sance is  natural.  That  was  the  period  of  great  passions  and 
great  crimes,  of  marble  palaces,  of  dresses  glittering  with  gold, 
and  of  intoxicating  revels  ;  a  period  in  which  the  aesthetic  pre- 
vailed over  the  useful,  and  the  fantastic  over  the  rational,  and 
when  crime  itself  was  beautiful,  because  assassination  was 
accomplished  with  a  chased  and  damascened  poniard,  and  the 
poison  was  handed  in  goblets  wrought  by  Benvenuto  Cellini. 

The  French  romanticists  made  use  of  the  unreality  of  their 
scene  of  action  and  costumes  chiefly  for  the  purpose  of  enabling 
them,  without  restraint,  to  attribute  to  their  characters  all  the 
qualities,  exaggerated  even  to  monstrosity,  that  were  dear  to 
the  French,  not  yet  ailing  with   the  pain  of  overthrow.     Thus 


MYSTICISM  75 

in  the  heroes  of  Victor  Hugo,  Alexandre  Dumas,  Th^ophile 
Gautier,  Alfred  de  Musset,  we  become  acquainted  with  the 
French  ideal  of  man  and  woman.  The  subtle  inquiries  of 
Faust,  (he  soliloquies  of  Hamlet,  are  not  their  affair.  They  talk 
unceasingly  in  dazzling  witticisms  and  antitheses ;  they  fight 
one  against  ten ;  they  love  like  Hercules  in  the  Thespidian 
night,  and  their  whole  life  is  one  riot  of  fighting,  wantoning, 
wine,  perfume,  and  pageantry — a  sort  of  magnificent  illusion, 
with  performance  of  gladiators,  Don  Juans,  and  Monte  Christos; 
a  crazy  prodigality  of  inexhaustible  treasures  of  bodily  strength, 
gaiety  and  gold.  These  ideal  beings  had  necessarily  to  wear 
doublets  or  Spanish  mantles,  and  speak  in  the  tongues  of  un- 
known times,  because  the  tightness  of  the  contemporary  dress- 
coat  could  not  accommodate  all  this  wealth  of  muscle,  and  the 
conversation  of  the  Paris  salon  did  not  admit  of  the  candour 
of  souls  which  their  authors  had  turned  inside  out. 

The  fate  of  romanticism  in  England  was  exactly  the  reverse 
of  that  which  befell  it  in  France,  Whereas  the  French  had 
imitated  chiefly,  and  even  exclusively,  in  the  German  roman- 
ticists, their  divergence  from  reality,  and  their  declaration  of 
the  sovereign  rights  of  the  passions,  the  English  just  as  ex- 
clusively elaborated  their  Catholic  and  mystical  elements. 
For  them  the  Middle  Ages  had  a  powerful  attraction,  inasmuch 
as  it  was  the  period  of  childlike  faith  in  the  letter,  and  of  the 
revelling  of  simple  piety  in  personal  intercourse  with  the  Trinity, 
the  Blessed  Virgin,  and  all  the  guardian  saints. 

Trade,  industry,  and  civilization  were  nowhere  in  the  world 
so  much  developed  as  in  England.  Nowhere  did  men  work  so 
assiduously,  nowhere  did  they  live  under  such  artificial  condi- 
tions as  there.  Hence  the  state  of  degeneration  and  exhaustion, 
which  we  observe  to-day  in  all  civilized  countries  as  the  result 
of  this  over-exertion,  must  of  necessity  have  shown  itself  sooner 
in  England  than  elsewhere,  and,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  did  show 
itself  in  the  third  and  fourth  decade  of  the  century  with  con- 
tinually increasing  violence.  In  consequence,  however,  of  the 
peculiarity  of  the  English  mind,  the  emotional  factor  in 
degeneration  and  exhaustion  necessarily  assumed  with  them  a 
religious  colouring. 

The  Anglo-Saxon  race  is  by  nature  healthy  and  strong- 
minded.  It  has  therefore,  in  a  high  degree,  that  strong  desire 
for  knowledge  which  is  peculiar  to  normally  -  constituted 
persons.  In  every  age  it  has  inquired  into  the  why  and  how  of 
phenomena,  and  shown  passionate  sympathy  with,  and  gratitude 
to,  everyone  who  held  out  hopes  of  an  explanation  of  them. 
The  well-known  and  deeply  thoughtful  discourse  of  the  Anglian 
noble  concerning  what  precedes  and  follows  man's  life  —  a 
speech  which  Bede  has  preserved  for  us  in  his  account  of  the 


76  DEGENERATION 

conversion  of  Edwin  to  Christianity — has  been  cited  by  all 
authors  {e.g.,  by  G.  Freytag  and  H.  Taine*)  who  have  studied 
the  origins  of  the  English  mental  constitution.  It  shows  that 
as  early  as  the  beginning  of  the  seventh  century  the  Anglo- 
Saxons  were  consumed  by  an  ardent  desire  to  comprehend  the 
phenomenon  of  the  universe.  This  fine  and  high-minded 
craving  for  knowledge  has  proved  at  once  the  strength  and  the 
weakness  of  the  English.  It  led  with  them  to  the  development 
along  parallel  lines  of  the  natural  sciences  and  theology.  The 
scientific  investigators  contributed  a  store  of  facts  won  through 
toilsome  observation  ;  the  experts  in  divinity  obtained  theirs 
through  systems  compounded  of  notions  arbitrarily  conceived. 
Both  claimed  to  explain  the  nature  of  things,  and  the  people 
were  deeply  grateful  to  both,  more  so,  it  is  true,  to  the  theologians 
than  to  the  scholars,  because  the  former  could  afford  to  be  more 
copious  and  confident  in  their  teaching  than  the  latter.  The 
natural  tendency  to  reckon  words  as  equivalent  to  facts, 
assertions  to  demonstrations,  always  gives  theologians  and 
metaphysicians  an  immense  advantage  over  observers.  The 
craving  of  the  English  for  knowledge  has  produced  both  the 
philosophy  of  induction  and  spiritualism.  Humanity  owes  to 
them  on  the  one  hand  Francis  Bacon,  Harvey,  Newton,  Locke, 
Darwin,  J.  S.  Mill  ;  on  the  other,  Bunyan,  Berkeley,  Milton,  the 
Puritans,  the  Quakers,  and  all  the  religious  enthusiasts, 
visionaries,  and  mediums  of  this  century.  No  people  has  done 
so  much  for,  and  conferred  such  honour  on,  scientific  investi- 
gators ;  no  people  has  sought  with  so  much  earnestness  and 
devotion  for  instruction,  especially  in  matters  of  faith,  as  have 
the  English.  Eagerness  to  know  is,  therefore,  the  main  source 
of  English  religiousness.  There  is  this  also  to  be  noticed, 
that  among  them  the  ruling  classes  never  gave  an  example 
of  indifference  in  matters  of  faith,  but  systematically  made 
religiousness  a  mark  of  social  distinction ;  unlike  France,  where 
the  nobility  of  the  eighteenth  century  exalted  Voltairianism  into 
a  symptom  of  good  breeding.  The  evolution  of  history  led  in 
England  to  two  results  which  apparently  exclude  each  other — 
to  caste-rule,  and  the  liberty  of  the  individual.  The  caste  which 
is  in  possession  of  wealth  and  power  naturally  wishes  to  protect 
its  possessions.  The  rigid  independence  of  the  English  people 
precludes  it  from  applying  physical  force.  Hence  it  uses  moral 
restraints  to  keep  the  lower  ranks  submissive  and  amenable, 
and,  among  these,  religion  is  by  far  the  most  effective. 

Herein  lies  the  explanation  both  of  the  devoutness  of  the 
English  and  of  the  religious  character  of  their  mental  degenera- 

*  Gustave  Freytag,  Bilder  mis  der  deutschen  Vergangenheit,  Bd.  I.  :  'Aus 
dem  Mittelalter.'  Leipzig,  1872,  §  266.  H.  Taine,  Hisioire  de  la  Litteratun 
anglaise.     Paris,  1866,  2®  Edition,  vol.  i.,  p.  46. 


MYSTICISM  77 

tion.  The  first  result  of  the  epidemic  of  degeneration  and  hysteria 
was  the  Oxford  Movement  in  the  thirties  and  forties.  Wiseman 
turned  all  the  weaker  heads.  Newman  went  over  to  Catholicism. 
Pusey  clothed  the  entire  Established  Church  in  Romish  garb. 
Spiritualism  soon  followed,  and  it  is  worthy  of  remark  that  all 
mediums  adopted  theological  modes  of  speech,  and  that  their 
disclosures  were  concerned  with  heaven  and  hell.  The  '  revival 
meetings '  of  the  seventies,  and  the  Salvation  Army  of  to-day, 
are  the  direct  sequel  of  the  Oxford  stream  of  thought,  but 
rendered  turbid  and  foul  in  accordance  with  the  lower  intellectual 
grade  of  their  adherents.  In  the  world  of  art,  however,  the 
religious  enthusiasm  of  degenerate  and  hysterical  Englishmen 
sought  its  expression  in  pre-Raphaelitism. 

An  accurate  definition  of  the  connotation  of  this  word  is  an 
impossibility,  in  that  it  was  invented  by  mystics,  and  is  as  vague 
and  equivocal  as  are  all  new  word-creations  of  the  feeble  and 
deranged  in  mind.  The  first  members  of  the  Brotherhood 
believed  that,  in  the  artists  of  the  fourteenth  and  fifteenth  cen- 
turies, in  the  predecessors  of  the  great  geniuses  of  the  Umbrian 
and  Venetian  schools,  they  had  discovered  minds  congenial  to 
their  own.  For  a  short  time  they  took  the  methods  of  these 
painters  for  their  models,  and  created  the  designation  '  pre- 
Raphaelite.'  The  term  was  bound  to  approve  itself  to  them, 
since  the  prefix  '  pre '  ('  prse  ')  arouses  ideas  of  the  primeval,  the 
.  far-away,  the  hardly  perceptible,  the  mysteriously  shadowy. 
*  Pre-Raphaelite '  calls  up,  through  association  of  ideas,  '  pre- 
Adamite,'*  *  pre-historic,'  etc. — in  short,  all  that  is  opened  to 
view  by  immeasurable  vistas  down  the  dusk  of  the  unknown, 
and  which  allow  the  mind  to  wander  dreamily  beyond  the  limits 
of  time  and  in  the  realms  of  myth.  But  that  the  pre-Raphaelites 
should  have  lit  on  the  quattrocento  painters  for  the  embodiment 
of  their  artistic  ideals  is  due  to  John  Ruskin. 

Ruskin  is  one  of  the  most  turbid  and  fallacious  minds,  and 
one  of  the  most  powerful  masters  of  style,  of  the  present  century. 
To  the  service  of  the  most  wildly  eccentric  thoughts  he  brings 
the  acerbity  of  a  bigot  and  the  deep  sentiment  of  Morel's 
'emotionalists.'  His  mental  temperament  is  that  of  the 
first  Spanish  Grand  Inquisitors.  He  is  a  Torquemada  of 
aesthetics.  He  would  liefest  burn  alive  the  critic  who  disagrees 
with  him,  or  the  dull  Philistine  who  passes  by  works  of  art  with- 
out a  feeling  of  devout  awe.  Since,  however,  stakes  do  not  stand 
within  his  reach,  he  can  at  least  rave  and  rage  in  word,  and 
annihilate  the  heretic  figuratively  by  abuse  and  cursing.  To  his 
ungovernable  irascibility  he  unites  great  knowledge  of  all  the 

*  This  is  not  an  arbitrary  assertion.  One  of  D.  G.  Rossetti's  most  famous 
poems,  of  which  further  mention  will  be  made,  Eden  Bowers^  treats  of  the 
pre-Adamite  Lilith. 


78  DEGENERATION 

minutiae  in  the  history  of  art.  If  he  writes  of  the  shapes  of 
clouds  he  reproduces  the  clouds  in  seventy  or  eighty  existing 
pictures,  scattered  amongst  all  the  collections  of  Europe.  And 
be  it  noted  that  he  did  this  in  the  forties,  when  photographs  of 
the  masterpieces  of  art,  which  render  the  comparative  study  of 
them  to-day  so  convenient,  were  yet  unknown.  This  heaping 
up  of  fact,  this  toilsome  erudition,  made  him  conqueror  of  the 
English  intellect,  and  explains  the  powerful  influence  which  he 
obtained  over  artistic  sentiment  and  the  theoretic  views  concern- 
ing the  beautiful  of  the  Anglo-Saxon  world.  The  clear  posi- 
tivism of  the  Englishman  demands  exact  data,  measures^  and 
figures.  Supplied  with  these  he  is  content,  and  does  not  criticise 
starting-points.  The  Englishman  accepts  a  fit  of  delirium  if  it 
appears  with  footnotes,  and  is  conquered  by  an  absurdity  if  it 
is  accompanied  by  diagrams.  Milton's  description  of  hell  and 
its  inhabitants  is  as  detailed  and  conscientious  as  that  of  a 
land-surveyor  or  a  natural  philosopher,  and  Bunyan  depicts  the 
Pilgrim  s  Progress  to  the  mystical  kingdom  of  Redemption  in 
the  method  of  the  most  graphic  writer  of  travels — a  Captain 
Cook  or  a  Burton.  Ruskin  has  in  the  highest  conceivable  degree 
this  English  peculiarity  of  exactness  applied  to  the  nonsensical, 
and  of  its  measuring  and  counting  applied  to  fevered  visions. 

In  the  year  1843,  almost  simultaneously  with  the  outbreak  of 
the  great  Catholicizing  movement,  Ruskin  began  to  publish  the 
feverish  studies  on  art  which  were  subsequently  collected  under 
the  title  of  Modern  Painters.  He  was  then  a  young  divinity 
student,  and  as  such  he  entered  upon  the  study  of  works  of  art. 
The  old  scholasticism  wished  to  make  philosophy  the  '  handmaid 
of  godly  learning.'  Ruskin's  mysticism  had  the  same  purpose 
with  regard  to  art.  Painting  and  sculpture  ought  to  be  a  form 
of  divine  worship,  or  they  ought  not  to  exist  at  all.  Works  of 
art  were  valuable  merely  for  the  supersensuous  thoughts  that 
they  conveyed,  for  the  devotion  with  which  they  were  conceived 
and  which  they  revealed,  not  for  the  mastery  of  form. 

From  this  point  of  view  he  was  able  to  arrive  at  judgments 
among  which  I  here  quote  a  few  of  the  most  typical.  *  It 
appears  to  me,'  he  says,*  '  that  a  rude  symbol  is  oftener  more 
efficient  than  a  refined  one  in  touching  the  heart,  and  that  as 
pictures  rise  in  rank  as  works  of  art  they  are  regarded  with  less 
devotion  and  more  curiosity.  ...  It  is  man  and  his  fancies,  man 
and  his  trickeries,  man  and  his  inventions,  poor,  paltry,  weak, 
self-sighted  man,  which  the  connoisseur  for  ever  seeks  and 
worships.  Among  potsherds  and  dunghills,  among  drunken 
boors  and  withered  beldames,  through  every  scene  of  debauchery 
and  degradation,  we  follow  the  erring  artist,  not  to  receive  one 
wholesome  lesson,  not  to  be  touched  with  pity,  nor  moved  with 

*  J.  Ruskin,  Modern  Painters,  American  edition,  vol.  i.,  pp.  xxi.  ei  seq. 


MYSTICISM  79 

indignation,  but  to  watch  the  dexterity  of  the  pencil,  and  gloat 
over  the  glittering  of  the  hue.  .  .  .  Painting  is  nothing  but  a 
noble  and  expressive  language,  invaluable  as  the  vehicle  of 
thought,  but  by  itself  nothing.  ...  It  is  not  by  the  mode  of 
rcf  resenting  and  saying,  but  by  what  is  represented  and  said, 
that  the  respective  greatness  either  of  the  painter  or  the  writer  is 
to  be  finally  determined.  .  .  .  The  early  efforts  of  Cimabue  and 
Giotto  are  the  burning  messages  of  prophecy,  delivered  by  the 
stammering  lips  of  infants.  .  .  .  The  picture  which  has  the 
nobler  and  more  numerous  ideas,  however  awkwardly  expressed, 
is  a  greater  and  a  better  picture  than  that  which  has  the  less 
noble  and  less  numerous  ideas,  however  beautifully  expressed. 
.  .  .  The  less  sufficient  the  means  appear  to  the  end  the  greater 
will  be  the  sensation  of  power.'  These  propositions  were  decisive 
in  determining  the  direction  taken  by  the  young  Englishmen  of 
1843,  who  united  artistic  inclinations  with  the  mysticism  of  the 
degenerate  and  hysterical.  They  comprise  the  sestheticism  of 
the  first  pre-Raphaelites,  who  felt  that  Ruskin  had  expressed 
with  clearness  what  was  vaguely  fermenting  within  them.  Here 
was  the  art-ideal  which  they  had  presaged — form  as  indifferent, 
idea  as  everything ;  the  clumsier  the  representation,  the  deeper 
its  effect ;  the  devotion  of  faith  as  the  only  worthy  import  of  a 
work  of  art.  They  reviewed  the  history  of  art  for  phenomena 
agreeing  with  the  theories  of  Ruskin,  which  they  had  taken  up 
with  enthusiasm,  and  they  found  what  they  sought  in  the  archaic 
Italian  school,  in  which  the  London  National  Gallery  is  extra- 
ordinarily rich.  There  they  had  perfect  models  to  imitate  ;  the/ 
were  bound  to  take  for  their  starting-point  these  Fra  Angelicos, 
Giottos,  Cimabues,  these  Ghirlandajos  and  Pollajuolos.  Here 
were  paintings  bad  in  drawing,  faded  or  smoked,  their  colouring 
either  originally  feeble  or  impaired  by  the  action  of  centuries; 
pictures  executed  with  the  awkwardness  of  a  learner  represent- 
ing events  in  the  Passion  of  Christ,  in  the  life  of  the  Blessed 
Virgin,  or  in  the  Golden  Legend,  symbolizing  childish  ideas  of 
hell  and  paradise,  and  telling  of  earnest  faith  and  fervent 
devotion.  They  were  easy  of  imitation,  since,  in  painting 
pictures  in  the  style  of  the  early  masters,  faulty  drawing,  deficient 
sense  of  colour,  and  general  artistic  incapacity,  are  so  many 
advantages.  And  they  constituted  a  sufficiently  forcible  anti- 
thesis to  all  the  claims  of  the  artistic  taste  of  that  decade  to 
satisfy  the  proclivity  for  contradiction,  paradox,  negation  and 
eccentricity  which  we  have  learned  to  recognise  as  a  special 
characteristic  of  the  feeble-minded. 

Ruskin's  theory  is  in  itself  delirious.  It  mistakes  the  funda- 
mental principles  of  aesthetics,  and,  with  the  unconsciousness  of 
a  saucy  child  at  play,  muddles  and  entangles  the  boundary  lines 
of  the  different  arts.     It  holds  of  account  in  plastic  art  only  the 


8o  DEGENERATION 

conception.  A  picture  is  valuable  only  in  so  far  as  it  is  a 
symbol  giving  expression  to  a  religious  idea.  Ruskin  does  not 
take  into  consideration,  or  deliberately  overlooks  the  fact,  that 
the  pleasurable  feelings  which  are  produced  by  the  contem- 
plation of  a  picture  are  not  aroused  by  its  intellectual  import, 
but  by  it  as  a  sensuous  phenomenon.  The  art  of  painting 
awakens  through  its  media  of  colour  and  drawing  {i.e.,  the  exact 
grasp  and  reproduction  of  differences  in  the  intensity  of  light), 
firstly,  a  purely  sensuously  agreeable  impression  of  beautiful 
single  colours  and  happily  combined  harmonies  of  colour ; 
secondly,  it  produces  an  illusion  of  reality  and,  together  with 
this,  the  higher,  more  intellectual  pleasures  arising  from  a 
recognition  of  the  phenomena  depicted,  and  from  a  compre- 
hension of  the  artist's  intention  ;  thirdly,  it  shows  these  phe- 
nomena as  seen  with  the  eye  of  the  artist,  and  brings  out  details 
or  collective  traits,  which  until  then  the  inartistic  beholder  had 
not  been  by  himself  able  to  perceive.  The  painter  therefore 
influences,  through  the  medium  of  his  art,  only  so  far  as  he 
agreeably  excites  the  sense  of  colour,  gives  to  the  mind  an 
illusion  of  reality,  together  with  the  consciousness  that  it  is  an 
illusion,  and,  through  his  deeper,  more  penetrating  vision,  dis- 
closes to  the  spectator  the  hidden  treasures  of  the  phenomenal 
world.  If,  in  addition  to  the  presentation  of  the  picture,  '  its 
story '  also  affects  the  beholder,  it  is  no  longer  the  merit  of  the 
painter  as  such,  but  of  his  not  exclusively  pictorial  intelligence 
in  making  choice  of  a  subject,  and  in  committing  its  portrayal 
to  his  specific  pictorial  abilities.  The  effect  of  the  story  is  not 
called  forth  through  the  media  of  painting  ;  it  is  not  based  on 
the  pleasure  of  the  spectator  in  colour,  on  the  illusion  of  reality, 
or  on  a  better  grasp  of  the  phenomenon,  but  on  some  pre- 
existing inclination,  some  memory,  some  prejudice.  A  purely 
painter's  picture,  such  as  Leonardo's  Mona  Lisa,  charms  every- 
one whose  eye  has  been  sufficiently  trained.  A  picture  which 
tells  a  story,  but  is  not  distinguished  for  its  purely  pictorial 
qualities,  leaves  everyone  unappreciative  to  whom  the  story  in 
itself  is  uninteresting,  i.e.,  to  whom  it  would  in  any  case  have 
been  uninteresting,  had  it  not  been  executed  by  the  instrumen- 
tality of  pictorial  art,  but  simply  narrated.  A  Russian  eikon  affects 
a  moujik,  and  leaves  the  Western  art  connoisseur  cold.  A  paint- 
ing which  represents  a  French  victory  over  Russian  troops  would 
excite  and  please  a  French  Philistine,  even  if  it  were  painted  in 
the  style  of  an  Epinal.  It  is  true,  no  doubt,  that  there  is  a  sort 
of  painting  which  does  not  seek  to  seize  and  awaken  visual  im- 
pressions in  the  spectator,  together  with  the  emotions  which 
they  directly  arouse,  but  to  express  ideas,  and  in  which  the 
picture  is  intended  to  affect  the  mind,  not  by  itself  and  its  own 
consummate  art,  but  by  its  spiritual  significance.     But  this  kind 


MYSTICISM  8i 

of  painting  has  a  special  name  :  we  call  it  writing.  The  signs, 
which  are  meant  to  have  no  pictorial,  but  only  symbolic  value, 
where  we  turn  away  from  the  form  in  order  to  dwell  upon  their 
meaning,  we  call  'letters,'  and  the  art  which  makes  use  of  such 
symbols  for  the  expressiori  of  mental  processes  is  not  painting, 
but  poetry.  Originally,  pictures  were  actually,  no  doubt,  a 
means  of  symbolizing  thoughts,  and  their  value  as  things  of 
beauty  was  considered  of  secondary  importance  in  relation  to 
their  value  as  means  of  expression.  On  the  other  hand, 
aesthetic  impressions  still  play  in  these  days  a  subdued  accom- 
paniment to  our  writing,  and  a  beautiful  handwriting,  quite 
apart  from  its  import,  affects  us  more  agreeably  than  one  that  is 
ugly.  At  the  very  beginning  of  their  evolution,  however,  the 
kind  of  painting  which  satisfied  only  aesthetic  needs  separated 
itself  from  that  of  writing,  which  serves  to  render  ideas  per- 
ceptible to  the  senses.  Descriptive  drawing  became  the  hiero- 
glyph, the  demotic  writing,  the  letter ;  and  it  was  reserved  for 
Raskin  to  be  the  first  to  try  to  annul  a  distinction  which  the 
scribes  of  Thebes  had  learnt  to  make  six  thousand  years  before 
him. 

The  pre-Raphaelites,  who  got  all  their  leading  principles  from 
Ruskin,  went  further.  They  misunderstood  his  misunderstand- 
ings. He  had  simply  said  that  defectiveness  in  form  can  be 
counter-balanced  by  devotion  and  noble  feeling  in  the  artist. 
They,  however,  raised  it  to  the  position  of  a  fundamental 
principle,  that  in  order  to  express  devotion  and  noble  feeling, 
the  artist  must  be  defective  in  form.  Incapable,  like  all  the 
weak-minded,  of  observing  any  process  and  of  giving  a  clear 
account  of  it  to  themselves,  they  did  not  distinguish  the  real 
causes  of  the  influence  exercised  over  them  by  the  old  masters. 
The  pictures  touched  and  moved  them  ;  the  most  striking  dis- 
tinction between  such  pictures  and  others,  to  which  they  were 
indifferent,  was  their  awkward  stiffness ;  they  did  not  look 
further,  however,  than  this  awkward  stiffness  for  the  source  of 
what  touched  and  moved  them,  and  imitated  with  great  care 
and  conscientiousness  the  bad  drawing  of  the  old  masters. 

Now,  the  clumsiness  of  the  old  masters  is  certainly  touching; 
but  why?  Because  these  Cimabues  and  Giottos  were  sincere. 
They  wished  to  get  closer  to  nature,  and  to  free  themselves  from 
the  thraldom  of  the  Byzantine  school,  which  had  become  en- 
tirely unreal.  They  struggled  with  vehement  endeavour  against 
the  bad  habits  of  hand  and  eye  which  they  had  acquired  from 
the  teachers  of  their  guilds,  and  the  spectacle  of  such  a  conflict, 
like  every  violent  effort  of  an  individuality  which  sets  itself  to 
rend  fetters  of  any  sort  and  save  its  own  soul  from  bondage, 
is  the  most  attractive  thing  possible  to  observe.  The  whole 
difference  between  the  old  masters  and  the  pre-Raphaelites  is, 
6 


82  DEGENERATION 

that  the  former  had  first  to  find  out  how  to  draw  and  paint 
correctly,  while  the  latter  wished  to  forget  it.  Hence,  where 
the  former  fascinate,  the  latter  must  repel.  It  is  the  contrast 
between  the  first  babbling  of  a  thriving  infant  and  the  stammer- 
ing of  a  mentally  enfeebled  gray-beard  ;  between  child-like  and 
childish.  But  this  retrogression  to  first  beginnings,  this  affecta- 
tion of  simplicity,  this  child's  play  in  word  and  gesture,  is  a 
frequent  phenomenon  amongst  the  weak-minded,  and  we  shall 
often  meet  with  it  among  the  mystic  poets. 

According  to  the  doctrine  of  their  master  in  theory,  Ruskin, 
the  decline  of  art  for  pre-Raphaelites  begins  with  Raphael — and 
for  obvious  reasons.  To  copy  Cimabue  and  Giotto  is  compara- 
tively easy.  In  order  to  imitate  Raphael  it  is  necessary  to  be 
able  to  draw  and  paint  to  perfection,  and  this  was  just  what  the 
first  members  of  the  Brotherhood  could  not  do.  Moreover, 
Raphael  lived  in  the  most  glorious  period  of  the  Renaissance. 
The  rosy  dawn  of  the  New  Thought  shone  in  his  being  and 
his  work.  With  the  liberal-mindedness  of  an  enlightened 
Cinquecentist,  he  no  longer  painted  only  religious  subjects,  but 
mythological  and  historical,  or,  as  the  mystics  say,  profane,  sub- 
jects as  well.  His  paintings  appealed  not  only  to  the  devotion 
of  faith,  but  also  to  the  sense  of  beauty.  They  are  no  longer 
exclusively  divine  worship  ;  consequently,  as  Ruskin  says,  and 
his  disciples  repeat,  they  are  devil-worship,  and  therefore  to  be 
rejected.  Finally,  it  is  consistent  with  the  tendency  to  contra- 
diction, and  to  the  repudiation  of  what  is  manifest,  which 
governs  the  thoughts  of  the  weak-minded,  that  they  should 
declare  as  false  those  tenets  in  the  history  of  art  which  others 
than  themselves  deemed  the  most  incontestable.  The  whole 
world  for  three  hundred  years  had  said,  '  Raphael  is  the  zenith 
of  painting.'  To  this  they  replied,  '  Raphael  is  the  nadir  of 
painting.'  Hence  it  came  about  that,  in  the  designation  which 
they  appropriated,  they  took  up  a  direct  allusion  to  Raphael, 
and  to  no  other  master  or  other  portion  of  the  history  of  art. 

Consistency  of  sequence  and  unity  are  not  to  be  expected 
from  mystical  thought.  It  proceeds  after  its  kind  in  perpetual 
self-contradiction.  In  one  place  Ruskin  says:*  *  The  cause  of 
the  evil  lies  in  the  painter's  taking  upon  him  to  modify  God's 
works  at  his  pleasure,  casting  the  shadow  of  himself  on  all  he 
sees.  Every  alteration  of  the  features  of  nature  has  its  origin 
either  in  powerless  indolence  or  blind  audacity.'  Thus  the 
painter  should  reproduce  the  phenomenon  exactly  as  he  sees  it, 
and  not  suffer  himself  to  make  the  smallest  alteration  in  it. 
And  a  few  pages  further  on  if  '  There  is  an  ideal  form  of  every 
herb,  flower,  and  tree ;  it  is  that  form  to  which  every  individual 
of  the  species  has  a  tendency  to  attain,  freed  from  the  influence 
*  Ruskin,  op.  cit.,  p.  24.  f  Ibid.,  p.  26. 


MYSTICISM  83 

of  accident  or  disease.'     And;  he  continues,  to  recognise  and  to 
reproduce  this  ideal  form  is  the  one  great  task  of  the  painter. 

That  one  of  these  propositions  completely  nullifies  the  other 
it  is  hardly  necessary  to  indicate.  The  '  ideal  form  '  which  every 
phenomenon  strives  after  does  not  stand  before  the  bodily  eyes 
of  the  painter.  He  reads  it,  according  to  some  preconceived 
notion,  into  the  phenomenon.  He  has  to  deal  with  individual 
forms  which,  through  '  accident  or  disease,'  have  diverged  from 
the  '  ideal  form.'  In  order  to  bring  them  back  in  painting  to 
their  ideal  form,  he  must  alter  the  object  given  by  nature. 
Ruskin  demands  that  he  should  do  this,  but  at  the  same  time 
says  that  every  alteration  is  an  act  of  '  powerless  indolence  or 
blind  audacity.'  Naturally,  only  one  of  these  mutually  exclusive 
statements  can  be  true.  Unquestionably  it  is  the  former.  The 
•  ideal  form '  is  an  assumption,  not  a  perception.  The  separation 
of  the  essential  from  the  accidental,  in  the  phenomenon,  is  an 
abstraction — the  work  of  reason,  not  of  the  eye  or  aesthetic 
emotion.  Now,  the  subject-matter  of  painting  is  the  visible,  not 
the  conjectural  ;  the  real,  not  the  possible  or  probable ;  the 
concrete,  not  the  abstract.  To  exclude  individual  features  from 
a  phenomenon  as  unessential  and  accidental,  and  to  retain  others 
as  intrinsic  and  necessary,  is  to  reduce  it  to  an  abstract  idea. 
The  work  of  art,  however,  is  not  to  abstract,  but  to  individualize. 
Firstly,  because  abstraction  presupposes  an  idea  of  the  law 
which  determines  the  phenomenon,  because  this  idea  may  be 
erroneous,  because  it  changes  with  the  ruling  scientific  theories 
of  the  day,  whereas  the  painter  does  not  reproduce  changing 
scientific  theories,  but  impressions  of  sense.  Secondly,  because 
the  abstraction  rouses  the  working  of  thought,  and  not  emotion, 
while  the  task  of  art  is  to  excite  emotion. 

Nevertheless,  the  pre-Raphaelites  had  no  eye  for  these  con- 
tradictions, and  followed  blindly  all  Ruskin's  injunctions.  They 
typified  the  human  form,  but  they  rendered  all  accessories  truth- 
fully, and  had  neither  'the  blind  audacity  nor  powerless  in- 
dolence' to  change  any  of  them.  They  painted  with  the 
greatest  precision  the  landscape  in  which  their  figures  stood, 
and  the  objects  with  which  they  were  surrounded.  The  botanist 
can  determine  every  kind  of  grass  and  flower  painted ;  the 
cabinet-maker  can  recognise  the  joining  and  glueing  in  every 
footstool,  the  kind  of  wood  and  varnish  in  the  furniture.  More- 
over, this  conscientious  distinctness  is  just  the  same  in  the 
foreground  as  in  the  extreme  background,  where,  according  to 
the  laws  of  optics,  things  should  be  scarcely  perceptible. 

This  uniformly  clear  reproduction  of  all  the  phenomena  in 
the  field  of  vision  is  the  pictorial  expression  of  the  incapacity 
for  attention.  In  intellection,  attention  suppresses  a  portion  of 
that  which  is  presented  to  consciousness  (through  association  or 


84  DEGENERATION 

perception),  and  suffers  only  a  dominant  group  of  the  latter  to 
remain.  In  sight,  attention  suppresses  a  portion  of  the 
phenomena  in  the  field  of  vision  in  order  distinctly  to  perceive 
only  that  part  which  the  eye  can  focus.  To  look  at  a  thing 
is  to  see  one  object  intently,  and  to  disregard  others.  The 
painter  must  observe  if  he  wishes  to  make  clear  to  us  what 
phenomenon  has  engrossed  him,  and  what  his  picture  is  to  show 
us.  If  he  does  not  dwell  observantly  on  a  definite  point  in  the 
field  of  vision,  but  represents  the  whole  field  of  view  with  the 
same  proportion  of  intensity,  we  cannot  divine  what  he  wishes 
particularly  to  tell  us,  and  on  what  he  wishes  to  direct  our 
attention.  Such  a  style  of  painting  may  be  compared  to  the 
disconnected  speech  of  a  weak  mind,  who  chatters  according  to 
the  current  of  the  association  of  ideas,  wanders  in  his  talk,  and 
neither  knows  himself  what  he  wishes  to  arrive  at,  nor  is  able 
to  make  it  clear  to  us ;  it  is  painted  drivelling,  echolalia  of  the 
brush. 

But  it  is  just  this  manner  of  painting  which  has  gained  for 
itself  an  influence  on  contemporary  art.  It  is  the  pre-Raphaelite 
contribution  to  its  evolution.  The  non-mystical  painters  have 
also  learnt  to  observe  accessories  with  precision,  and  to  re- 
produce them  faithfully ;  but  they  have  prudently  avoided  fall- 
ing into  the  faults  of  their  models,  and  nullifying  the  unity  of 
their  work  by  filling  the  most  distant  backgrounds  with  still  life, 
painted  with  painful  accuracy.  The  lawns,  flowers  and  trees, 
which  they  render  with  botanical  accuracy,  the  geologically 
correct  rocks,  surfaces  of  soil,  and  mountain  structures,  the 
distinct  patterns  of  carpets  and  wall-papers,  which  we  find  in 
the  new  pictures,  are  traceable  to  Ruskin  and  the  pre- 
Raphaelites. 

These  mystics  believed  themselves  to  be  mentally  affiliated 
with  the  Old  Masters,  because,  like  the  latter,  they  painted 
religious  pictures.  But  in  this  they  deceive  themselves.  Cimabue, 
Giotto  and  Fra  Angelico  were  no  mystics,  or,  to  put  it  more 
precisely,  they  are  to  be  classed  as  mystics  because  of  their 
ignorance,  and  not  because  of  organic  weakness  of  mind.  The 
mediaeval  painter,  who  depicted  a  religious  scene,  was  convinced 
that  he  was  painting  something  perfectly  true.  An  Annuncia- 
tion, a  Resurrection,  an  Ascension,  an  event  in  the  lives  of  the 
saints,  a  scene  of  life  in  paradise  or  in  hell,  possessed  for  him 
the  same  incontestable  character  of  reality  as  drinking  bouts  in 
a  soldier's  tavern,  or  a  banquet  in  a  ducal  palace.  He  was  a 
realist  when  he  was  painting  the  transcendental.  To  him  the 
legend  of  his  faith  was  related  as  a  fact ;  he  was  penetrated  with 
a  sense  of  its  literal  truth,  and  reproduced  it  exactly  as  he  would 
have  done  any  other  true  story.  The  spectator  approached  the 
picture  with  the  same  conviction.     Religious  art  was  the  Bible 


MYSTICISM  85 

of  the  poor.  It  had  for  the  mediaeval  man  the  same  importance 
as  the  illustrations  in  the  works  on  the  history  of  civilization, 
and  on  natural  science,  have  in  our  day.  Its  duty  was  to 
narrate  and  to  teach,  and  hence  it  had  to  be  exact.  We  know 
from  the  touching  stanza  of  Villon*  how  the  illiterate  people  of 
the  Middle  Ages  regarded  church  pictures.  The  dissolute  poet 
makes  his  mother  say  to  the  Virgin  Mary  : 

*  A  pitiful  poor  woman,  shrunk  and  old, 
I  am,  and  nothing  learn'd  in  letter-lore ; 
Within  my  parish-cloiser  I  behold 
A  painted  Heaven  where  harps  and  lutes  adore, 
And  eke  an  Hell  whose  damned  folk  seethe  full  sore  : 
One  bringeth  fear,  the  other  joy  to  me. 
That  joy,  great  Goddess,  make  thou  mine  to  be — 
Thou  of  whom  all  must  ask  it  even  as  I  ; 
And  that  which  faith  desires,  that  let  it  see, 
For  in  this  faith  I  choose  to  live  and  die.' 

With  this  sober  faith  a  mystic  mode  of  painting  would  be  quite 
incompatible.  The  painter  then  avoided  all  that  was  obscure 
or  mysterious  ;  he  did  not  paint  nebulous  dreams  and  moods, 
but  positive  records.  He  had  to  convince  others,  and  could  do 
so,  because  he  was  convinced  himself. 

It  was  quite  otherwise  with  the  pre-Raphaelites.  They  did 
not  paint  sober  visions,  but  emotions.  They  therefore  intro- 
duced into  their  pictures  mysterious  allusions  and  obscure 
symbols,  which  have  nothing  to  do  with  the  reproduction  of 
visible  reality.  I  need  cite  only  one  example — Holman  Hunt's 
Shadow  of  the  Cross.  In  this  picture  Christ  is  standing  in  the 
Oriental  attitude  of  prayer  with  outstretched  arms,  and  the 
shadow  of  his  body,  falling  on  the  ground,  shows  the  form  of  a 
cross.  Here  we  have  a  most  instructive  pattern  of  the  processes 
of  mystic  thought.  Holman  Hunt  imagines  Christ  in  prayer. 
Through  the  association  of  ideas  there  awakes  in  him 
simultaneously  the   mental  image  of  Christ's  subsequent  death 

*  '  Balladk  que  Villon  feit  A  la  requeste  de  sa  mere  pour 

PRIER    NOSTRE   DaME.    ' 

*  Femme  je  suis  povrette  et  ancienne. 
Que  riens  ne  scay,  oncques  lettres  ne  leuz, 
Au  Monstier  voy  (dont  suis  parroissienne) 
Paradis  painct,  ou  sont  harpes  et  luz, 
Et  ung  enfer,  oil  damnez  sont  bouUuz, 
L'ung  me  faict  paour,  I'autre  joye  et  liesse, 
La  joye  avoir  faictz  moy  (haulte  deesse) 
A  qui  pecheurs  doivent  tous  recourir 
Combley  de  foy,  sans  faincte  ne  paresse, 
En  ceste  foy  je  vueil  vivre  et  mourir.' 

It  is  sif^nificant  that  the  pre-Raphaelite  Rossetti  has  translated  this  very 
poem  of  Villon,  His  Mother's  Service  to  Our  Lady.     Poems,  p.  180. 


B6  DEGENERATION 

on  the  cross.  He  wants,  by  the  instrumentality  of  painting,  to 
make  the  association  of  these  ideas  visible.  And  hence  he  lets 
the  living  Christ  throw  a  shadow  which  assumes  the  form  of  a 
cross,  thus  foretelling  the  fate  of  the  Saviour,  as  if  some 
mysterious,  incomprehensible  power  had  so  posed  his  body 
with  respect  to  the  rays  of  the  sun  that  a  wondrous  annuncia- 
tion of  his  destiny  must  needs  write  itself  on  the  floor.  The 
invention  is  completely  absurd.  It  would  have  been  childish 
trifling  if  Christ  had  drawn  his  sublime  death  of  sacrifice, 
whether  in  jest  or  in  vanity,  in  anticipation,  by  his  shadow  on 
the  ground.  Neither  would  the  shadow-picture  have  had  any 
object,  for  no  contemporary  of  Christ's  would  have  understood 
the  significance  of  the  shadowed  cross  before  he  had  suffered 
death  by  crucifixion.  In  Holman  Hunt's  consciousness,  how- 
ever, emotion  simultaneously  awakened  the  form  of  the  praying 
Christ  and  of  the  cross,  and  he  unites  both  presentations  any- 
how, without  regard  to  their  reasonable  connection.  If  an  Old 
Master  had  had  to  paint  the  same  idea,  namely,  the  praying 
Christ  filled  with  the  presentiment  of  his  impending  death,  he 
would  have  shown  us  in  the  picture  a  realistic  Christ  in  prayer, 
and  in  a  corner  an  equally  realistic  crucifixion  ;  but  he  would 
never  have  sought  to  blend  both  these  different  scenes  into  a 
single  one  by  a  shadowy  connection.  This  is  the  difference 
between  the  religious  painting  of  the  strong  healthy  believer 
and  of  the  emotional  degenerate  mind. 

In  the  course  of  time  the  pre-Raphaelites  laid  aside  many  of 
their  early  extravagances.  Millais  and  Holman  Hunt  no  longer 
practise  the  affectation  of  wilfully  bad  drawing  and  of  childish 
babbling  in  imitation  of  Giotto's  language.  They  have  only 
retained,  of  the  leading  principles  of  the  school,  the  careful 
reproduction  of  the  unessential  and  the  painting  of  the  idea.  A 
benevolent  critic,  Edward  Rod,*  says  of  them  :  *  They  were 
themselves  writers,  and  their  painting  is  literature.'  This  speech 
is  still  applicable  to  the  school. 

A  few  of  the  earliest  pre-Raphaelites  have  understood  it. 
They  have  recognised  in  time  that  they  had  mistaken  their 
vocation,  and  have  gone  over,  from  a  style  of  painting  which  was 
merely  thought-writing,  to  genuine  writing.  The  most  notable 
among  them  is  Dante  Gabriel  Rossetti,  who,  though  born  in 
England,  was  the  son  of  an  Italian  Carbonaro,  and  a  scholar  of 
Dante.  His  father  gave  him  the  name  of  the  great  poet  at  his 
entrance  into  the  world,  and  this  expressive  baptismal  name 
became  a  constant  suggestion,  which  Rossetti  felt,  and  has, 
perhaps  half  unconsciously,  admitted. f  He  is  the  most  instruc- 
tive example   of  the  often-quoted   assertion   of  Balzac,  of  the 

*  Edward  Rod,  Etudes  sur  le  XIX.  Sihcle.     Paris  et  Lausanne,  1888,  p.  89. 
f  Rossetti,  Poems,  p.  277. 


MYSTICISM  87 

determining  influence  of  a  name  on  the  development  and  destiny 
of  its  bearer.  Rossetti's  whole  poetical  feeling  was  rooted  in 
Dante.  His  theory  of  life  bears  an  indistinct  cast  of  that  of  the 
Florentine.  Through  all  his  ideas  there  runs  a  reminiscence, 
faint  or  strong,  of  the  Divina  Coinmedia  or  the  Vita  Nuova. 

The  analysis  of  one  of  his  most  celebrated  poems,  The  Blessed 
Damozel,  will  show  this  parasitic  battening  on  the  body  of 
Dante,  and  at  the  same  time  disclose  some  of  the  most  char- 
acteristic peculiarities  of  the  mental  working  of  a  mystic's  brain. 
The  first  strophe  runs  thus  : 

*  The  blessed  damozel  leaned  out 

From  the  gold  bar  of  Heaven  ; 
Her  eyes  were  deeper  than  the  depth 

Of  waters  stilled  at  even  ; 
She  had  ihiee  lilies  in  her  hand, 

And  the  stars  in  her  hair  were  seven.' 

The  whole  of  this  description  of  a  lost  love,  who  looks  down 
upon  him  from  a  heaven  imagined  as  a  palace,  with  paradisiacal 
decorations,  is  a  reflection  of  Dante's  Paradiso  (Canto  iii.),  where 
the  Blessed  Virgin  speaks  to  the  poet  from  the  moon.  We 
even  find  details  repeated,  e.g.,  the  deep  and  still  waters  (.  .  .  '  ver 
per  acque  nitide  e  tranquille  Non  si  profonde,  che  i  fondi  sien 
persi  .  .  .').  The  '  lilies  in  her  hand '  he  gets  from  the  Old 
Masters,  yet  even  here  there  is  a  slight  ring  of  the  morning 
greeting  from  the  Purgatorio  (Canto  xxx.), '  Manibiis  0  date  lilia 
plenis'  He  desii^nates  his  love  by  the  Anglo-Norman  word 
'damozel.'  By  this  means  he  makes  any  clear  outlines  in  the 
idea  of  a  girl  or  lady  artificially  blurred,  and  shrouds  the  distinct 
picture  in  a  veil  of  clouds.  By  the  word  'girl'  we  should  just 
think  of  a  girl  and  nothing  else.  '  Damozel '  awakens  in  the 
consciousness  of  the  English  reader  obscure  ideas  of  slim,  noble 
ladies  in  the  tapestries  of  old  castles,  of  haughty  Norman 
knights  in  mail,  of  something  remote,  ancient,  half  forgotten ; 
'  damozel '  carries  back  the  contemporary  beloved  into  the 
mysterious  depths  of  the  Middle  Ages,  and  spiritualizes  her  into 
the  enchanted  figure  of  a  ballad.  This  one  word  awakens  all 
the  crepuscular  moods  which  the  body  of  romantic  poets  and 
authors  have  bequeathed  as  a  residuum  in  the  soul  of  the 
contemporary  reader.  In  the  hand  of  the  *  damozel '  Rossetti 
places  three  lilies,  round  her  head  he  weaves  seven  stars.  These 
numbers  are,  of  course,  not  accidental.  From  the  oldest  times 
they  have  been  reckoned  as  mysterious  and  holy.  The  'three' 
and  the  '  seven  '  are  allusions  to  something  unknown,  and  of 
deep  meaning,  which  the  intuitive  reader  may  try  to  understand. 
It  must  not  be  said  that  my  criticism  of  the  means  by  which 
Rossetti  seeks  to  express  his  own  dreamy  states  of  mind,  and  to 
arouse  similar  states  in  the  reader,  applies  equally  to  all  lyrics 


88  DEGENERATION 

and  poetry  generally,  and  that  I  condemn  the  latter  when  I 
adduce  the  former  as  the  emanations  of  the  mystic's  weakness 
of  mind.  All  poetry  no  doubt  has  this  peculiarity,  that  it  makes 
use  of  words  intended  not  only  to  arouse  the  definite  ideas  which 
they  connote,  but  also  to  awaken  emotions  that  shall  vibrate  in 
consciousness.  But  the  procedure  of  a  healthy-minded  poet  is 
altogether  different  from  that  of  a  weak-minded  mystic.  The 
suggestive  word  employed  by  the  former  has  in  itself  an 
intelligible  meaning,  but  besides  this  it  is  adapted  to  excite 
emotions  in  every  healthy-minded  man  ;  and  finally  the  emotions 
excited  have  all  of  them  reference  to  the  subject  of  the  poem. 
"One  example  will  make  this  clear.  Uhland  sings  the  Praise  of 
Spring  in  these  words  : 

*  Saatengriin,  Veilchenduft, 
Lerchenvvirbel,  Amselschlag 
Sonnenregen,  linde  Luft 
Wenn  ich  solche  Worte  singe, 
Braucht  es  dann  noch  grosse  Dinge, 
Dich  zu  preisen,  Friihlingstag  ?'* 

Each  word  of  the  first  three  lines  contains  a  positive  idea.  Each 
of  them  awakens  glad  feelings  in  a  man  of  natural  sentiment. 
These  feelings,  taken  together,  produce  the  mood  with  which 
the  awakening  of  spring  fills  the  soul,  to  induce  which  was 
precisely  the  intention  of  the  poet.  When,  on  the  other  hand, 
Rossetti  interweaves  the  mystical  numbers  'three'  and  'seven  ' 
in  the  description  of  his  '  damozel,'  these  numbers  signify 
nothing  in  themselves  ;  moreover,  they  will  call  up  no  emotion 
at  all  in  an  intellectually  healthy  reader,  who  does  not  believe 
in  mystical  numbers ;  but  even  in  the  case  of  the  degenerate 
and  hysterical  reader,  on  whom  the  cabbala  makes  impression, 
the  emotions  excited  by  the  sacred  numbers  will  not  involve  a 
reference  to  the  subject  of  the  poem,  viz.,  the  apparition  of  one 
loved  and  lost,  but  at  best  will  call  up  a  general  emotional 
consciousness,  which  may  perhaps  tell  in  a  remote  way  to  the 
advantage  of  the  '  damozel.' 

But  to  continue  the  analysis  of  the  poem.  To  the  maiden  in 
bliss  it  appears  that  she  has  been  a  singer  in  God's  choir  for 
only  one  day ;  to  him  who  is  left  behind  tliis  one  day  has  been 
actually  a  matter  of  ten  years.  '  To  one  it  is  ten  years  of  years.' 
This  computation  is  thoroughly  mystical.  It  means,  that  is, 
absolutely  nothing.     Perhaps  Rossetti  imagined  that  there  may 

*  *  The  springing  green,  the  violet's  scent, 
The  trill  of  lark,  the  blackbird's  note, 
Sunshowers  soft,  and  balmy  breeze  : 
If  I  sing  such  words  as  these, 
Needs  there  any  grander  thing 
To  praise  thee  with,  O  day  of  spring? 


MYSTICISM  8g 

exist  a  higher  unity  to  which  the  single  year  may  stand  as  one 
day  does  to  a  year  ;  that  therefore  365  years  would  constitute  a 
sort  of  higher  order  of  year.  The  words  '  year  of  years '  there- 
fore signified  365  years.  But  as  Rossetti  portrays  this  thought 
vaguely  and  imperfectly,  he  is  far  from  expressing  it  as  intel- 
ligibly as  this. 

'  It  was  the  rampart  of  God's  house 

That  she  was  standing  on  ; 
By  God  built  over  the  sheer  depth 

The  which  is  space  begun  ; 
So  high  that,  looking  downward,  ther.ce 

She  scarce  could  see  the  sun. 

•  It  lies  in  heaven,  across  the  flood 

Of  ether,  as  a  bridge. 
Beneath,  the  tides  of  day  and  night 

With  flame  and  darkness  ridge 
The  void,  as  low  as  where  this  earth 

Spins  like  a  fretful  midge. 

*  Heard  hardly,  some  of  her  new  friends, 

Amid  their  loving  games, 
Spake  evermore  among  themselves 

Their  virginal  chaste  names. 
And  the  souls  mounting  up  to  God 

Went  by  her  like  thin  flames. 

'  From  the  fixed  place  of  Heaven  she  saw 
Time  like  a  pulse  shake  fierce 
Through  all  the  worlds.  .  .  .' 

I  leave  it  to  the  reader  to  imagine  all  the  details  of  this  descrip- 
tion and  unite  them  into  one  complete  picture.  If  he  fail  in 
this  in  spite  of  honest  exertion,  let  him  comfort  himself  by 
saying  that  the  fault  is  not  his,  but  Rossetti's. 

The  damozel  begins  to  speak.  She  wishes  that  her  beloved 
were  already  with  her.     For  come  he  will. 

*"  When  round  his  head  the  aureole  clings, 

And  he  is  clothed  in  white, 
I'll  take  his  hand  and  go  with  him 

To  the  deep  wells  of  light. 
We  will  step  down  as  to  a  stream. 

And  bathe  there  in  God's  sight."' 

It  is  to  be  observed  how,  in  the  midst  of  the  turgid  stream  of 
these  transcendental  senseless  modes  of  speech,  the  idea  of 
bathing  together  takes  a  definite  shape.  Mystical  reverie  never 
fails  to  be  accompanied  by  sensuality. 

* "  We  two,"  she  said,  "  will  seek  the  groves 
Where  the  Lady  Mary  is, 
With  her  five  handmaidens,  whose  names 

Are  five  sweet  symphonies — 
Cecily,  Gertrude,  Magdalen, 
Margaret,  and  Rosalys."' 


90  DEGENERATION 

The  enumeration  of  these  five  feminine  names,  occupying  two 
lines  of  the  stanza,  is  a  method  of  versification  characteristic  of 
the  mystic.  Here  the  word  ceases  to  be  the  symbol  of  a 
distinct  presentation  or  concept,  and  sinks  into  a  meaningless 
vocal  sound,  intended  only  to  awaken  divers  agreeable  emotions 
through  association  of  ideas.  In  this  case  the  five  names  arouse 
gliding  shadowy  ideas  of  beautiful  young  maidens,  *  Rosalys ' 
those  of  roses  and  lilies  as  well ;  and  the  two  verses  together 
diffuse  a  glamour  of  faerie,  as  if  one  were  roaming  at  ease  in  a 
garden  of  flowers,  where  between  lilies  and  roses  slender  white 
and  rosy  maidens  pace  to  and  fro. 

The  maiden  in  paradise  goes  on  picturing  to  herself  the  union 
with  her  beloved,  and  then  : 

*  she  cast  her  arms  along 
The  golden  barriers, 
And  laid  her  face  between  her  hands 
And  wept — I  heard  her  tears.' 

These  tears  are  incomprehensible.  The  blessed  maiden  after 
her  death  lives  in  the  highest  bliss,  in  a  golden  palace,  in  the 
presence  of  God  and  the  Blessed  Virgin.  What  pains  her  now  } 
That  her  beloved  is  not  yet  with  her?  Ten  years  of  mortal 
men  are  to  her  as  a  single  day.  Even  if  it  be  her  beloved's 
destiny  to  live  to  be  a  very  old  man,  she  will  at  most  have  to 
wait  only  five  or  six  of  her  days  until  he  appears  at  her  side, 
and  after  this  tiny  span  of  time  there  blossoms  for  them  both  an 
eternity  of  joy.  It  is  not,  therefore,  obvious  why  she  is  dis- 
tressed and  sheds  tears.  This  can  only  be  attributed  to  the 
bewildered  thoughts  of  the  mystic  poet.  He  imagines  to  him- 
self a  life  of  happiness  after  death,  but  at  the  same  time  there 
dawn  in  his  consciousness  dim  pictures  of  the  annihilation  of 
individuality,  and  of  final  separation  through  death,  and  those 
painful  feelings  are  excited  which  we  are  accustomed  to  associate 
with  ideas  of  death,  decay,  and  separation  from  all  we  love. 
Hence  it  is  that  he  comes  to  close  an  ecstatic  hymn  of  immor- 
tality with  tears,  which  have  a  meaning  only  if  one  does  not 
believe  in  the  continuation  of  life  after  death.  In  other  respects 
also  there  are  contradictions  in  the  poem  which  show  that 
Rossetti  had  not  formed  any  one  of  his  ideas  so  clearly  as  to 
exclude  the  opposite  and  incompatible.  Thus,  at  one  time  the 
dead  are  dressed  in  white,  and  adorned  with  a  galaxy  of  stars  ; 
they  appear  in  pairs  and  call  each  other  by  caressing  names  ; 
they  must  also  be  thought  of  as  resembling  human  beings  in 
appearance,  while  on  another  occasion  their  souls  are  "thin 
flames  '  which  rustle  past  the  damozel.  Every  single  ioea  in 
the  poem,  when  we  try  soberly  to  follow  it  out,  infallibl}  takes 
refuge  after  this  manner  in  darkness  and  intangibility. 


MYSTICISM  gj 

In  the  *  Divine  Comedy,'  echoes  of  which  are  ever  humming  in 
Rossetti's  soul,  we  find  nothing  of  this  kind.     This  was  because 
Dante,  Hke  the  Old  Masters,  was  a  mystic  from  ignorance,  not 
from  the  weak-mindedness  of  degeneration.    The  raw  material  of 
his  thought,  the  store  of  facts  with  which  he  worked,  was  false, 
but  the  use  his  mind  made  of  it  was  true  and  consistent.     All 
his  ideas  were  clear,  homogeneous,  and  free  from  internal  con- 
tradictions.    His  hell,  his  purgatory,  his  paradise,  he  built  up 
on  the  science  of  his  times,  which  based  its  knowledge  of  the 
world  exclusively  on  dogmatic  theology.     Dante  was  familiar 
with  the  system  of  his  contemporary,  Thomas  Aquinas  (he  was 
nine  years  old  when  the  Doctor  Angelicus  died),  and  permeated 
by  it.     To  the  first  readers  of  the  Inferno  the  poem  must  have 
appeared  at  least  as  well  founded  on  fact  and  as  convincing  as, 
let   us  say,   Hackel's  Natural  History  of  Creatio7i   does  to  the 
public  of  to-day.     In  coming  centuries  our  ideas  of  an  atom  as 
merely  a  centre  of  force,  of  the  disposition  of  atoms  in  the 
molecule  of  an  organic  combination,  of  ether  and  its  vibrations, 
will  perhaps  be  discerned  to  be  just  as  much  poetical  dreams  as 
the  ideas  of  the  Middle  Ages  concerning  the  abode  of  the  souls  of 
the  dead  appear  to  us.     But  that  is  no  reason  why  anyone  should 
claim  the  right  to  designate  Helmholtz  or  William  Thompson 
as  mystics,  because  they  base  their  work  upon    those  notions 
which  even   to  their   minds  do  not  to-day  represent   anything 
definite.     For  the  same  reason   no  one  ought  to  call  Dante  a 
mystic  like  a  Rossetti.     Rossetti's  Blessed  Damozel  is  not  based 
upon   the  scientific  knowledge  of  his  time,  but  upon  a  mist  of 
undeveloped  germs  of  ideas  in  constant  mutual  strife.     Dante 
followed  the  realities  of  the  world  with  the  keenly  penetrating 
eyes  of  an  observer,  and  bore  with  him  its  image  down  to  his 
hell.     Rossetti  is  not  in  a  condition  to  understand,  or  even  to  see 
the  real,  because  he  is  incapable  of  the  necessary  attention  ;  and 
since  he  feels  this  weakness  he  persuades  himself,  in  conformity 
with  human  habit,  that  he  does  not  wish  to  do  what  in  reality 
he  cannot   do.      '  What   is  it  to  me,'  he  once   said  *  *  whether 
the  earth  revolves  around  the  sun  or  the  sun  around  the  earth?* 
To  him  it  is  of  no  importance,  because  he  is  incapable  of  under- 
standing it. 

It  is,  of  course,  impossible  to  go  so  deeply  into  all  Rossetti's 
poems  as  into  the  Blessed  Damozel ;  but  it  is  also  unnecessary, 
since  we  should  everywhere  meet  with  the  same  mixture  of 
transcendentalism  and  sensuality,  the  same  shadowy  ideation, 
the  same  senseless  combinations  of  mutually  incompatible  ideas. 
Reference,  however,  must  be  made  to  some  of  the  peculiarities 
of  the  poet,  because  they  characterize  the  brain-work  of  weak 
degenerate  minds. 

*  Rod,  op.  cit.,  p.  67. 


92 


DEGENERATION 


The  first  thing  that  strikes  us  is  his  predilection  for  refrains. 
The  refrain  is  an  excellent  artistic  medium  for  the  purpose  of 
unveiling  the  state  of  a  soul  under  the  influence  of  a  strong 
emotion.  It  is  natural  that,  to  the  lover  yearning  for  his 
beloved,  the  recurring  idea  of  her  should  be  ever  thrusting  itself 
among  all  the  other  thoughts  in  which  he  temporarily  indulges. 
It  is  equally  comprehensible  that  the  unhappy  being  who  is 
made  miserable  by  thoughts  of  suicide  should  be  unable  to 
free  himself  from  an  idea  which  is  in  harmony  with  his  mental 
condition,  say  of  an  Armensiinderbliim,  or  '  flower  of  the  doomed 
soul,'  which  he  sees  when  walking  at  night.  (See  Heine's  poem, 
Am  Kreiizweg  wird  begi-abeii,  in  which  the  line  die  Armensun- 
derblum  is  repeated  at  the  end  of  both  strophes  with  peculiarly 
thrilling  effect.) 

Rossetti's  refrains,  however,  are  different  from  this,  which  is 
natural  and  intelligible.  They  have  nothing  to  do  with  the 
emotion  or  action  expressed  by  the  poem.  They  are  alien 
to  the  circle  of  ideas  belonging  to  the  poem.  In  a  word, 
they  possess  the  character  of  an  obsession,  which  the  patient 
cannot  suppress,  although  he  recognises  that  they  are  in  no 
rational  connection  with  the  intellectual  content  of  his  conscious- 
ness. In  the  poem  Troy  Town  it  is  related  how  Helen,  long 
before  Paris  had  carried  her  off,  kneels  in  the  temple  of  Venus 
at  Sparta,  and,  drunken  with  the  luxuriant  beauty  of  her  own 
body,  fervently  implores  the  Goddess  of  Love  to  send  her  a  man 
panting  for  love,  where  or  whoever  he  might  be,  to  whom  she 
might  give  herself  The  absurdity  of  this  fundamental  idea  it 
is  sufficient  to  indicate  in  passing.    The  first  strophe  runs  thus : 

*  Heaven-born  Helen,  Sparta's  Queen 
(O  Troy  town  1), 
Had  two  breasts  of  heavenly  sheen, 
The  sun  and  the  moon  of  the  heart's  desire. 
All  Love's  lordship  lay  between. 
(O  Troy's  down, 
Tall  Troy's  on  fire  !) 

'  Helen  knelt  at  Venus'  shrine 
(O  Troy  town  !) 
Sayincr,  "A  little  gift  is  mine, 
A  litile  gift  for  a  heart's  desire. 
Hear  me  speak  and  make  me  a  sign  1 
(O  Troy's  down. 
Tall  Troy's  on  fire!)"'*  i, 

And  thus  through  fourteen  strophes  there  constantly  recurs, 
after  the  first  line,  '  O  Troy  town  I'  at  the  end  of  the  third  line, 
'heart's  desire  ';  and  after  the  fourth  line,  '  O  Troy's  down,  tali 
Troy's  on  fire  !'  It  is  easy  to  discern  what  Rossetti  wishes.  In 
him  there  is  repeated  the  mental  process  which  we  recognised 

*  Poems,  p.  1 6. 


MYSTICISM  93 

in  Holman  Hunt's  picture,  The  Shadotv  of  the  Cross.  As  by 
association  of  ideas,  in  thinking  of  Helen  at  Sparta,  he  hits 
upon  the  idea  of  the  subsequent  fate  of  Troy,  so  shall  the 
reader,  while  he  sees  the  young  queen  in  Sparta  intoxicated  by 
her  own  beauty,  be  simultaneously  presented  with  the  picture 
of  the  yet  distant  tragical  consequences  of  her  longing  desire. 
But  he  does  not  seek  to  connect  these  two  trains  of  thought  in  a 
rational  way.  He  is  ever  muttering  as  he  goes,  monotonously 
as  in  a  litany,  the  mysterious  invocations  to  Troy,  while  he  is 
relating  the  visit  to  the  temple  of  Venus  at  Sparta.  Sollier* 
remarks  this  peculiarity  among  persons  of  feeble  intellect. 
*  Idiots,' he  says,  'insert  words  which  have  absolutely  no  con- 
nection with  the  object.'  And  further  on :  *  Among  idiots 
constant  repetition  \le  rabdchage^  grows  into  a  veritable  tic' 

In  another  very  famous  poem,  Eden  Bozver,-\  which  treats  of 
the  pre-Adamite  woman  Lilith,  her  lover  the  serpent  of  Eden, 
and  her  revenge  on  Adam,  the  litany  refrain  of '  Eden  Bower's 
in  flower,'  and  '  And  O  the  Bower  and  the  hour,'  are  introduced 
alternately  after  the  first  line  in  forty-nine  strophes.  As  a 
matter  of  course,  between  these  absolutely  senseless  phrases  and 
the  strophe  which  each  interrupts,  there  is  not  the  remotest  con- 
nection. They  are  strung  together  without  any  reference  to 
their  meaning,  but  only  because  they  rhyme.  It  is  a  startling 
example  of  echolalia. 

We  frequently  find  this  peculiarity  of  the  weak  md  deranged 
mind,  i.e.,  echolalia,  in  Rossetti.     Here  are  a  few  proofs  : 

'  So  wet  she  comes  to  wed '  {Siratton  Water). 

Here  the  sound  *  wed  '  has  called  up  the  sound  *  wet.'  In  the 
poem  My  Sisters  Sleep,  in  one  place  where  the  moon  is  spoken 
of,  it  is  said  : 

*  The  hollow  halo  it  was  in 
Was  like  an  icy  crystal  cup.' 

It  is  stark  nonsense  to  qualify  a  plane  surface  such  as  a  halo 
by  the  adjective  '  hollow.'  The  adjective  and  noun  mutually 
exclude  each  other,  but  the  rhyming  assonance  has  joined 
'  hollow'  to  '  halo.'     With  this  we  may  also  compare  the  line  : 

'Yet  both  were  ours,  but  hours  will  come  and  go' 

{A  New  Year's  Burden)^ 
and 

'  Forgot  it  not,  nay,  but  got  it  not '  {Beauty). 

*  Sollier,  Psychologie  de  t^ Idiot  et  de  flmb^a'Ie,  p.  184.  See  also  Lom- 
broso,  The  Man  of  Getthis  (Contemporary  Science  S  ries),  London,  1891, 
p.  216.  A  special  characteristic  found  in  literary  mattoids,  and  also,  as  we 
have  already  seen,  in  the  insane,  is  that  of  repeating  some  words  or  phrases 
hundreds  of  times  in  the  same  page.  Thus,  in  one  of  Passanante's  chapters 
the  word  riprovate  (blame)  occurs  about  143  times. 

f  Poems,  P-  31- 


94  DEGENERATION 

Many  of  Rossetti's  poems  consist  of  the  stringing  together  of 
wholly  disconnected  words,  and  to  mystic  readers  these 
absurdities  seem  naturally  to  have  the  deepest  meaning.  I 
should  like  to  cite  but  one  example.  The  second  strophe  of 
the  Song  of  the  Bower  says  : 

*.  .  .  My  heart,  when  it  flies  to  thy  bower, 
What  does  it  find  there  that  knows  it  again  ? 
There  it  must  droop  like  a  shower-beaten  flower, 
Red  at  the  rent  core  and  dark  with  the  rain. 
Ah  !  yet  what  sheUer  is  still  shed  above  ic — 
What  waters  still  image  its  leaves  torn  apart  ? 
Thy  soul  is  the  shade  that  clings  round  it  to  love  it, 
And  tears  are  its  mirror  deep  down  in  thy  heart.'* 

The  peculiarity  of  such  series  of  words  is,  that  each  single 
word  has  an  emotional  meaning  of  its  own  (such  as  '  heart,' 
*  bower,'  '  flies,'  '  droop,'  '  flower,'  '  rent,'  '  dark,'  '  lone,'  *  tears,' 
etc.),  and  that  they  follow  each  other  with  a  cradled  rhythm 
and  ear-soothing  rhyme.  Hence  they  easily  arouse  in  the 
emotional  and  inattentive  reader  a  general  emotion,  as  does  a 
succession  of  musical  tones  in  a  minor  key.  And  the  reader 
fancies  that  he  understands  the  strophe,  while  he,  as  a  matter 
of  fact,  only  interprets  his  own  emotion  according  to  his  own 
level  of  culture,  his  character,  and  his  recollections  of  what  he 
has  read. 

Besides  Dante  Gabriel  Rossetti,  it  has  been  customary  to 
include  Swinburne  and  Morris  among  the  pre-Raphaelite  poets. 
But  the  similarity  between  these  two  and  the  head  of  the  school 
is  remote.  Swinburne  is,  in  Magnan's  phrase,  a  *  higher  de- 
generate,' while  Rossetti  should  be  counted  among  Sollier's 
imbeciles.  Swinburne  is  not  so  emotional  as  Rossetti,  but  he 
stands  on  a  much  higher  mental  plane.  His  thought  is  false 
and  frequently  delirious,  but  he  has  thoughts,  and  they  are  clear 
and  connected.  He  is  mystical,  but  his  mysticism  partakes 
more  of  the  depraved  and  the  criminal  than  of  the  paradisiacal 
and  divine.  He  is  the  first  representative  of  *  Diabolism '  in 
English  poetry.  This  is  because  he  has  been  influenced,  not 
only  by  Rossetti,  but  also  and  especially  by  Baudelaire.  Like 
all  '  degenerates,'  he  is  extraordinarily  susceptible  to  suggestion, 
and,  consciously  or  unconsciously,  he  has  imitated,  one  after 
another,  all  the  strongly-marked  poetic  geniuses  that  have  come 
under  his  notice.  He  was  an  echo  of  Rossetti  and  Baudelaire, 
as  he  was  of  Gautier  and  Victor  Hugo,  and  in  his  poems  it  is 
possible  to  trace  the  course  of  his  reading  step  by  step. 

Completely  Rossettian,  for  example,  is  A  Christmas  Carol  :-\ 

*  Poetns,  p.  247. 

t  Algernon  Charles  Swinburne,  Poems  and  Ballads.  London :  Chatto 
and  Windus,  1889,  p.  247. 


MYSTICISM  95 

•Three  damsels  in  the  queen's  chamberj 
The  queen's  mouth  was  most  fair  ; 
She  spalce  a  word  of  Gi)d's  mother, 
As  the  combs  went  in  her  hair. 
"  Mary  that  is  of  might, 
Bring  us  to  thy  Son's  sight."' 

Here  we  find  a  mystical  content  united  to  the  antiquarianism 
and  childish  phraseology  of  genuine  pre-Raphaelitism,  The 
Masque  of  Queen  Bersabe  is  worked  out  on  the  same  model, 
being  an  imitation  of  the  mediaeval  miracle-play,  with  its  Latin 
stage  directions  and  puppet-theatre  style.  This,  in  its  turn,  has 
become  the  model  of  many  French  poems,  in  which  there  is 
only  a  babbling  and  stammering  and  a  crawling  on  all  fours,  as 
if  in  a  nursery. 

Where  he  walks  in  Baudelaire's  footsteps,  Swinburne  tries  to 
distort  his  face  to  a  diabolical  mien,  and  makes  the  woman  say 
(in  Anaciorid)  to  the  other  unnaturally  loved  woman: 

*  I  would  my  love  could  kill  thee.     I  am  satiated 
With  seeing  thee  live,  and  fain  would  have  thee  dead. 
I  would  earth  had  thy  body  as  fruit  to  eat, 
And  no  mouth  but  some  serpent's  found  thee  sweet. 
I  would  find  grievous  ways  to  have  thee  slain, 
Intense  device,  and  superflux  of  pain  ; 

.  .  .  O  !  that  I 
Durst  crush  thee  out  of  life  with  love,  and  die — 
Die  of  thy  pain  and  my  delight,  and  be 
Mixed  with  thy  blood  and  molien  unto  thee.' 

Or,  when  he  curses  and  reviles,  as  in  Before  Dawn  : 

*  To  say  of  shame — what  is  it  ? 
Of  virtue — we  can  miss  i.. 
Of  sin — we  can  but  kiss  it, 
And  it's  no  longer  sin.' 

One  poem  deserves  a  more  detailed  analysis,  because  it  con- 
tains unmistakably  the  germ  of  the  later  '  symbolism,'  and  is  an 
instructive  example  of  this  form  of  mysticism.  The  poem  is 
ne  King's  Daughter.  It  is  a  sort  of  ballad,  which  in  fourteen 
four-lined  stanzas  relates  a  fairy  story  about  the  ten  daughters  of 
a  king,  of  whom  one  was  preferred  before  the  remaining  nine,  was 
beautifully  dressed,  pampered  with  the  most  costly  food,  slept 
in  a  soft  bed,  and  received  the  attentions  of  a  handsome  prince, 
while  her  sisters  remained  neglected ;  but  instead  of  finding 
happiness  at  the  prince's  side,  she  became  deeply  wretched  and 
wished  she  were  dead.  In  the  first  and  third  lines  of  every 
stanza  the  story  is  rehearsed.  The  second  line  speaks  of  a 
mythical  mill-stream,  which  comes  into  the  ballad  one  knows 
not  how,  and  which  always,  by  some  mysterious  influence, 
symbolically  reflects  all    the   changes    that  take  place  as   the 


96  DEGENERATION 

action  of  the  ballad  progresses ;  while  the  fourth  line  contains 
a  litany-like  exclamation,  which  likewise  makes  a  running  refer- 
ence to  the  particular  stage  reached  in  the  narrative. 

'  We  were  ten  maidens  in  the  green  corn, 
Small  red  leaves  in  the  mill-water  : 
Fairer  maidens  never  were  born, 
Apples  of  gold  for  the  King's  daughter. 

'We  were  ten  maidens  by  a  well-head. 
Small  white  birds  in  the  mill-water  : 
Sweeter  maidens  never  were  wed, 

Rings  of  red  lor  the  King's  daughter,' 

In  the  following  stanzas  the  admirable  qualities  of  each  of  the 
ten  princesses  are  portrayed,  and  the  symbolical  intermediate 
lines  run  thus  : 

'  Seeds  of  wheat  in  the  mill-water —  .  .  .  White  bread  and  brown  for  the 
King's  daughter —  .  .  .  Fair  green  weed  in  the  mill-water —  .  .  .  White 
wine  and  red  for  the  King's  daughter —  .  .  .  Fair  thin  reeds  in  the  mill- 
water — ...  Honey  in  the  comb  for  the  King's  daughter — ...  Fallen  flowers 
in  the  mill-water —  .  .  .  Golden  gloves  for  the  King's  daughter —  .  .  .  Fallen 
fruit  in  the  mill-water —  .  .  .    Golden  sleeves  for  the  King's  daughter —  .  .  .' 

The  King's  son  then  comes,  chooses  the  one  princess  and 
disdains  the  other  nine.  The  symbolical  lines  point  out  the 
contrast  between  the  brilliant  fate  of  the  chosen  one  and  the 
gloomy  destiny  of  the  despised  sisters  : 

'  A  little  wind  in  the  mill-water  ;  A  crown  of  red  for  the  King's  daughter — 
A  little  rain  in  the  mill-water ;  A  bed  of  yellow  straw  for  all  the  rest  ;  A 
bed  of  gold  for  the  King's  daughter —  Rain  that  rains  in  the  mill-water  ; 
A  comb  of  yellow  shell  for  all  the  rest, —  A  comb  of  gold  for  the  King's 
daughter —  Wind  and  hail  in  ihe  mill-water  ;  A  grass  girdle  for  all  the  rest, 
A  girdle  of  arms  for  the  King's  daughter —  Snow  that  snows  in  the  mill- 
water  ;  Nine  little  kisses  for  all  the  rest,  An  hundredfold  for  the  King's 
daughter.' 

The  King's  daughter  thus  appears  to  be  very  fortunate,  and  to 
be  envied  by  her  nine  sisters.  But  this  happiness  is  only  on  the 
surface,  for  the  poem  now  suddenly  changes : 

*  Broken  boats  in  the  mill-water  ; 
Golden  gilts  for  all  the  rest, 
Sorrow  of  heart  for  the  King's  daughter. 

* "  Ye'll  make  a  grave  for  my  fair  body," 
Running  rain  in  the  mill-water  ; 
"  And  ye'll  streek  my  brother  at  the  side  of  me," 
The  pains  of  hell  for  the  King's  daughter.' 

What  has  brought  about  this  change  in  her  fate  the  poet 
purposely  leaves  obscure.  Perhaps  he  wishes  to  have  us  under- 
stand that  the  King's  son  has  no  right  to  sue  for  her  hand,  being 
her  brother,  and  that  the  chosen  princess  for  shame  at  the 
incest  perishes.     This  would  be  in   keeping  with   Swinburne's 


MYSTICISM 


97 


childish  devilry.     But  I  am  not  dwelling  on  this  aspect  of  the 
poem,  but  on  its  symbolism. 

It  is  psychologically  justifiable  that  a  subjective  connection 
should  be  set  up  between  our  states  of  mind  for  the  time  being 
and  phenomena ;  that  we  -should  perceive  in  the  external  world 
a  reflection  of  our  moods.  If  the  external  world  shows  a  well- 
marked  emotional  character,  it  awakens  in  us  the  mood  corre- 
sponding to  it ;  and  conversely,  if  we  are  under  the  influence  of 
some  pronounced  feeling,  we  notice,  in  accordance  with  the 
mechanism  of  attention,  only  those  features  of  nature  which  are 
in  harmony  with  our  mood,  which  intensify  and  sustain  it,  while 
the  opposing  phenomena  we  neither  observe  nor  even  perceive. 
A  gloomy  ravine  overhung  by  a  cloudy  sky  makes  us  sad. 
This  is  one  form  of  associating  our  humour  with  the  outer  world. 
But  if  we  from  any  cause  are  already  sad,  we  find  some  corre- 
sponding sadness  in  all  the  scenes  around  us — in  the  streets  of 
the  metropolis  ragged,  starved-looking  children,  thin,  miserably 
kept  cab-horses,  a  blind  beggar-woman  ;  in  the  woods  withered, 
mouldering  leaves,  poisonous  fungi,  slimy  slugs,  etc.  If  we  are 
joyous,  we  see  just  the  same  objects,  but  take  no  notice  of  them, 
perceiving  only  beside  them,  in  the  street,  a  wedding  procession, 
a  fresh  young  maiden  with  a  basket  of  cherries  on  her  arm, 
gaily-coloured  placards,  a  funny  fat  man  with  his  hat  on  the 
back  of  his  head  ;  in  the  woods,  birds  flitting  by,  dancing  butter- 
flies, little  white  anemones,  etc.  Here  we  have  the  other  form 
of  that  association.  The  poet  has  a  perfect  right  to  make  use 
of  both  these  forms.     If  Heine  sings  : 

*  Es  ragt  ins  Meer  der  Runenstein, 
Da  sitz  ich  mit  meinen  Traumen  ; 

Es  pfeift  der  Wind,  die  Mowen  schrein, 
Die  Wellen,  die  wandern  und  schaumen. 

*  Ich  habe  geliebt  manch  schones  Kind 
Und  manchen  guten  Gesellen — 

Wo  sind  sie  bin  1 — Es  pfeift  der  Wind, 
Es  schaumen  und  wandern  die  Wellen,'* 

he  brings  his  own  mournful,  melancholy  frame  of  mind  with 
him.  He  bemoans  the  fleetingness  of  man's  life,  the  imperma- 
nence  of  the  feelings,  the  shadowy  passing  by  and  away  of 
beloved  companions.  In  this  state  he  looks  out  over  the  sea 
from  the  shore  where  he  sits,  and  perceives  only  those  objects 

*  *  The  Runic  stone  stands  out  in  the  sea, 
There  sit  I  with  my  dreams, 
'Mid  whistling  winds  and  wailing  gulls, 
And  wandering,  foaming  waves. 
I  have  loved  many  a  lovely  child, 
And  many  a  good  comrade — 
Where  are  they  gone  1     The  wind  whisileSj 
The  waves  wander  foaming  on.' 


98  DEGENERATION 

that  are  in  keeping  with  his  humour  and  give  it  embodiment : 
the  driving  gust  of  wind,  the  hurrying  gulls,  now  seen,  now  lost 
to  sight,  the  rolling  in  and  trackless  ebbing  of  the  surf.  These 
features  of  an  ocean  scene  become  symbols  of  what  is  passing 
through  the  poet's  mind,  and  this  symbolism  is  sound  and 
founded  on  the  laws  of  thought. 

Swinburne's  symbolism  is  of  quite  another  kind.  He  does 
not  let  the  external  world  express  a  mood,  but  makes  it  tell  a 
story  ;  he  changes  its  appearance  according  to  the  character  of 
the  event  he  is  describing.  Like  an  orchestra,  it  accompanies 
all  events  which  somewhere  are  taking  place.  Here  nature  is 
no  longer  a  white  wall  on  which,  as  in  a  game  of  shadows,  the 
varied  visions  of  the  soul  are  thrown  ;  but  a  living,  thinking 
being,  which  follows  the  sinful  love-romance  with  the  same 
tense  sympathy  as  the  poet,  and  which,  with  its  own  media, 
expresses  just  as  much  as  he  does — complacency,  delight,  or 
sorrow — at  every  chapter  of  the  story.  This  is  a  purely  delirious 
idea.  It  corresponds  in  art  and  poetry  to  hallucination  in  mental 
disease.  It  is  a  form  of  mysticism,  which  is  met  with  in  all  the 
degenerate.  Just  as  in  Swinburne  the  mill-water  drives  'small 
red  leaves,'  and,  what  is  certainly  more  curious,  *  little  white 
birds,'  when  everything  is  going  on  well,  and  on  the  other  hand 
is  lashed  by  snow  and  hail,  and  tosses  shattered  boats  about,  if 
things  take  an  adverse  turn  ;  so,  in  Zola's  Assommoir,  the  drain 
from  a  dyeing  factory  carries  off  fluid  of  a  rosy  or  golden  hue 
on  days  of  happiness,  but  a  black  or  gray-coloured  stream  if  the 
fates  of  Gervaise  and  Lantier  grow  dark  with  tragedy.  Ibsen, 
too,  in  his  Ghosts,  makes  it  rain  in  torrents  if  Frau  Alving  and 
her  son  are  in  sore  trouble,  while  the  sunshine  breaks  forth  just 
as  the  catastrophe  is  about  to  occur.  Ibsen,  moreover,  goes 
farther  in  this  hallucinatory  symbolism  than  the  others,  since 
with  him  Nature  not  only  plays  an  active  part,  but  shows  scornful 
malice — she  not  only  furnishes  an  expressive  accompaniment 
to  the  events,  but  makes  merry  over  them. 

William  Morris  is  intellectually  far  more  healthy  than  Rossetti 
and  Swinburne.  His  deviations  from  mental  equilibrium  betray 
themselves,  not  through  mysticism,  but  through  a  want  of 
individuality,  and  an  overweening  tendency  to  imitation.  His 
affectation  consists  in  mediaevalism.  He  calls  himself  a  pupil 
of  Chaucer.*  He  artlessly  copies  whole  stanzas  also  from 
Dante,  e.g.,  the  well-known  Francesca  and  Paolo  episode  from 
Canto  V.  of  the  Injerno,  when  he  writes  in  his  Guenevere  : 

♦  William  Morris,  Poems  (Tauchnitz  edition),  p.  169  : 

'And  if  it  hap  that  .  .  , 
My  master.  Geoffrey  Chaucer,  thou  do  meet, 
Then  speak  .  .  .  the  words  : 
'*  O  master  1  O  thou  great  of  heart  and  tongue  !"*.., 


MYSTICISM  99 

'  In  that  garden  fair 
Came  Lancelot  walking  ;  this  is  true,  the  kiss 
Wherewith  we  kissed  in  meeting  that  spring  day, 
I  scarce  dare  talk  of  the  remembered  bliss.' 

Morris  persuades  himself  that  he  is  a  wandering  minstrel  of  the 
thirteenth  or  fourteenth  century,  and  takes  much  trouble  to  look 
at  things  in  such  a  way,  and  express  them  in  such  language,  as 
would  have  befitted  a  real  contemporary  of  Chaucer.  Beyond 
this  poetical  ventriloquism,  so  to  speak,  with  which  he  seeks  so 
to  alter  the  sound  of  his  voice  that  it  may  appear  to  come  from 
far  away  to  our  ear,  there  are  not  many  features  of  degeneracy 
in  him  to  notice.  Rut  he  sometimes  falls  into  outspoken 
echolalia,  e.g.^  in  a  stanza  of  the  Earthly  Paradise : 

*  Of  Margaret  sitting  glorious  there, 
In  glory  of  gold  and  glory  of  hair, 
And  glory  of  glorious  face  most  fair' — 

where  *  glory '  and  *  glorious '  are  repeated  five  times  in  three 
lines.  His  emotional  activity  in  recent  years  has  made  him  an 
adherent  of  a  vague  socialism,  consisting  chiefly  of  love  and 
pity  for  his  fellow-men,  and  which  has  an  odd  effect  when  ex- 
pressed artistically  in  the  language  of  the  old  ballads. 

The  pre-Raphaelites  have  for  twenty  years  exercised  a  great 
influence  on  the  rising  generation  of  English  poets.  All  the 
hysterical  and  degenerate  have  sung  with  Rossetti  of  *  damozels  ' 
and  of  the  Virgin  Mary,  have  with  Swinburne  eulogized  unnatural 
license,  crime,  hell,  and  the  devil.  They  have,  with  Morris, 
mangled  language  in  bardic  strains,  and  in  the  manner  of  the 
Canterbury  Tales;  and  if  the  whole  of  English  poetry  is  not 
to-day  unmitigatedly  pre-Raphaelite,  it  is  due  merely  to  the 
fortunate  accident  that,  contemporaneously  with  the  pre- 
Raphaelites,  so  sound  a  poet  as  Tennyson  has  lived  and  worked. 
The  official  honours  bestowed  on  him  as  Poet  Laureate,  his 
unexampled  success  among  readers,  pointed  him  out  to  a  part 
at  least  of  the  petty  strugglers  and  aspirants  as  worthy  of 
imitation,  and  so  it  comes  about  that  among  the  chorus  of  the 
lily-bearing  mystics  there  are  also  heard  other  street-singers  who 
follow  the  poet  of  the  Idylls  of  the  King. 

In  its  further  development  pre-Raphaelitism  in  England 
degenerated  into  'aestheticism,'  and  in  France  into  '  symbolism.* 
With  both  of  these  tendencies  we  must  deal  more  fully. 


loo  DEGENERATION 

CHAPTER  III. 

SYMBOLISM. 

A  SIMILAR  phenomenon  to  that  which  we  observed  in  the  case 
of  the  pre-Raphaelites  is  afforded  by  the  French  Symbolists. 
We  see  a  number  of  young  men  assemble  for  the  purpose  of 
founding  a  school.  It  assumes  a  special  title,  but  in  spite  of  all 
sorts  of  incoherent  cackle  and  subsequent  attempts  at  mystifica- 
tion it  has,  beyond  this  name,  no  kind  of  general  artistic  principle 
or  clear  aesthetic  ideal.  It  only  follows  the  tacit,  but  definitely 
recognisable,  aim  of  making  a  noise  in  the  world,  and  by  attract- 
ing the  attention  of  men  through  its  extravagances,  of  attaining 
celebrity  and  profit,  and  the  gratification  of  all  the  desires  and 
conceits  agitating  the  envious  souls  of  these  filibusters  of  fame. 

Shortly  after  1880  there  was,  in  the  Quartier  Latin  in  Paris,  a 
group  of  literary  aspirants,  all  about  the  same  age,  who  used  to 
meet  in  an  underground  cafe  at  the  Quai  St.  Michel,  and,  while 
drinking  beer,  smoking  and  quibbling  late  into  the  night,  or 
early  hours  of  the  morning,  abused  in  a  scurrilous  manner  the 
well-known  and  successful  authors  of  the  day,  while  boasting 
of  their  own  capacity,  as  yet  unrevealed  to  the  world. 

The  greatest  talkers  among  them  were  Emile  Goudeau,  a 
chatterbox  unknown  save  as  the  author  of  a  few  silly  satirical 
verses;  Maurice  RoUinat,  the  author  of  Les  Nevroses ;  and 
Edmond  Haraucourt,  who  now  stands  in  the  front  rank  of 
French  mystics.  They  called  themselves  the  '  Hydropaths,'  an 
entirely  meaningless  word,  which  evidently  arose  out  of  an 
indistinct  reminiscence  of  both  'hydrotherapy'  and  'neuropath,' 
and  which  was  probably  intended,  in  the  characteristic  vague- 
ness of  the  mystic  thought  of  the  weak-minded,  to  express  only 
the  general  idea  of  people  whose  health  is  not  satisfactory,  who 
are  ailing  and  under  treatment.  In  any  case  there  is,  in  the 
self-chosen  name,  a  suggestion  of  shattered  nervous  vitality 
vaguely  felt  and  admitted.  The  group,  moreover,  owned  a 
weekly  paper  Lutece,  which  ceased  after  a  few  issues.* 

About  1884  the  society  left  their  paternal  pot-house,  and 
pitched  their  tent  in  the  Cafe  Francois  I.,  Boulevard  St.  Michel. 
This  caf^  attained  a  high  renown.  It  was  the  cradle  of 
Symbolism.  It  is  still  the  temple  of  a  few  ambitious  youths, 
who   hope,    by  joining  the  Symbolist  school,   to  acquire   that 

*  A  history  of  the  commencement  of  this  society  has  been  written  by  one 
of  the  members,  Mathias  Morhardt.  See  '  Les  Symboliques,'  Nouvelle 
Revue  du  15  F^vrier,  1892,  p.  765. 


MYSTICISM  loi 

advancement  which  they  could  not  expect  from  their  own 
abilities.  It  is,  too,  the  Kaaba  to  which  all  foreign  imbeciles 
make  a  pilgrimage,  those,  that  is,  who  have  heard  of  the  new- 
Parisian  tendency,  and  wish  to  become  initiated  into  its  teachings 
and  mysteries.  A  few  of  the  Hydropaths  did  not  join  in  the 
change  of  quarters,  and  their  places  were  taken  by  fresh 
auxiliaries — Jean  Moreas,  Laurent  Tailhade,  Charles  Morice, 
etc.  These  dropped  the  old  name,  and  were  known  for  a  short 
time  as  the  '  Decadents.'  This  had  been  applied  to  them  by  a 
critic  in  derision,  but  just  as  the  '  Beggars '  of  the  Netherlands 
proudly  and  truculently  appropriated  the  appellation  bestowed 
in  contempt  and  mockery,  so  the  '  Decadents  '  stuck  in  their 
hats  the  insult,  which  had  been  cast  in  their  faces,  as  a  sign  of 
mutiny  against  criticism.  Soon,  however,  these  original  guests 
of  the  Francois  I.  became  tired  of  their  name,  and  Moreas 
invented  for  them  the  designation  of '  Symbolistes,'  under  which 
they  became  generally  known,  while  a  special  smaller  group, 
who  had  separated  themselves  from  the  Symbolists,  continued 
to  retain  the  title  of  '  Decaderrts.' 

The  Symbolists  are  a  remarkable  example  of  that  group- 
forming  tendency  which  we  have  learnt  to  know  as  a  peculiarity 
of  *  degenerates.'  They  had  in  common  all  the  signs  of  de- 
generacy and  imbecility  :  overweening  vanity  and  self-conceit, 
strong  emotionalism,  confused  disconnected  thoughts,  garrulity 
(the 'logorrhcea' of  mental  therapeutics),  and  complete  incapa- 
city for  serious  sustained  work.  Several  of  them  had  had  a 
secondary  education,  others  even  less.  All  of  them  were  pro- 
foundly ignorant,  and  being  unable,  through  weakness  of  will 
and  inability  to  pay  attention,  to  learn  anything  systematically, 
they  persuaded  themselves,  in  accordance  with  a  well-known 
psychological  law,  that  they  despised  all  positive  knowledge,  and 
held  that  only  dreams  and  divinings,  only  '  intuitions,'  were  worthy 
of  human  beings.  A  few  of  them,  like  Moreas  and  Guaita,  who 
afterwards  became  a  '  magian,'  read  in  a  desultory  fashion  all 
sorts  of  books  which  chanced  to  fall  into  their  hands  at  the  bou- 
quinistes  of  the  Quais,  and  delivered  themselves  of  the  snatched 
fruits  of  their  reading  in  grandiloquent  and  mysterious  phrases 
before  their  comrades.  Their  listeners  thereupon  imagined  that 
they  had  indulged  in  an  exhausting  amount  of  study,  and  in  this 
way  they  acquired  that  intellectual  lumber  which  they  peddled 
out  in  such  an  ostentatious  display  in  their  articles  and  pam- 
phlets, and  in  which  the  mentally  sane  reader,  to  his  amused 
astonishment,  meets  with  the  names  of  Schopenhauer,  Darwin, 
Taine,  Renan,  Shelley  and  Goethe  ;  names  employed  to  label  the 
shapeless,  unrecognisable  rubbish-heaps  of  a  mental  dustbin,  filled 
with  raw  scraps  of  uncomprehended  and  insolently  mutilated 
propositions  and  fragments  of  thought,  dishonestly  extracted 


I02  DEGENERATION 

and  appropriated.  This  ignorance  on  the  part  of  the  Symboh'sts, 
and  their  childish  flaunting  of  a  pretended  culture,  are  openly 
admitted  by  one  of  them.  '  Very  few  of  these  young  men,'  says 
Charles  Morice,*  '  have  any  exact  knowledge  of  the  tenets  of 
religion  or  philosophy.  From  the  expressions  used  in  the  Church 
services,  however,  they  retain  some  fine  terms,  such  as  "  mon- 
strance," "  ciborium,"  etc.  ;  several  have  preserved  from  Spencer, 
Mill,  Shopenhauer  {sic  !),  Comte,  Darwin,  a  few  technical  terms. 
Few  are  those  who  know  deeply  what  they  talk  about,  or  those 
who  do  not  try  to  make  a  show  and  parade  of  their  manner  of 
speaking,  which  has  no  other  merit  than  that  of  being  a  conceit 
in  syllables.'  (Charles  Morice  naturally  is  responsible  for  this 
last  unmeaning  phrase,  not  I.) 

The  original  guests  of  the  Francois  I.  made  their  appearance 
at  one  o'clock  in  the  day  at  their  cafe,  and  remained  there  till 
dinner-time.  Immediately  after  that  meal  they  returned,  and 
did  not  leave  their  headquarters  till  long  after  midnight.  Of 
course  none  of  the  Symbolists  had  any  known  occupation. 
These  'degenerates'  are  no  more  capable  of  regularly  fulfilling 
any  duty  than  they  are  of  methodical  learning.  If  this  organic 
deficiency  appears  in  a  man  of  the  lower  classes,  he  becomes  a 
vagabond  ;  in  a  woman  of  that  class  it  leads  to  prostitution  ;  in 
one  belonging  to  the  upper  classes  it  takes  the  form  of  artistic 
and  literary  drivel.  The  German  popular  mind  betrays  a  deep 
intuition  of  the  true  connection  of  things  in  inventing  such  a 
word  as  'day-thief  {Tagedieb)  for  such  aesthetic  loafers.  Pro- 
fessional thieving  and  the  unconquerable  propensity  to  busy, 
gossiping,  officious  idleness  flow  from  the  same  source,  to  wit, 
inborn  weakness  of  brain. 

It  is  true  that  the  boon  companions  of  the  caf6  are  not  con- 
scious of  their  mentally-crippled  condition.  They  find  pet  names 
and  graceful  appellations  for  their  inability  to  submit  themselves 
to  any  sort  of  discipline,  and  to  devote  persistent  concentration 
and  attention  to  any  sort  of  work.  They  call  it  *  the  artist 
nature,'  *  genius  roaming  at  large,'  '  a  soaring  above  the  low 
miasma  of  the  commonplace.'  They  ridicule  the  dull  Philistine, 
who,  like  the  horse  turning  a  winch,  performs  mechanically  a 
regular  amount  of  work  ;  they  despise  the  narrow-minded  loons 
who  demand  that  a  man  should  either  pursue  a  circumscribed 
bourgeois  trade  or  possess  an  officially  acknowledged  status,  and 
who  profoundly  distrust  impecuniary  professions.  They  glory 
in  roving  folk  who  wander  about  singing  and  carelessly  begging, 
and  they  hold  up  as  their  ideal  the  '  commoner  of  air,'  who 
bathes  in  morning  dew,  sleeps  under  flowers,  and  gets  his  clothing 
from  the  same  firm  as  the  lilies  of  the  field  ir  the  Gospel. 
Richepin's  La  Chanson  dcs  Gueiix  is  the  most  t)'pical  expression 
*  Charles  Morice,  La  Litteraiure  de  ioiit-a-Phcure.     Paris,  1889,  p.  274. 


MYSTICISM 


103 


of  this  theory  of  life.  Baumbach's  Lieder  eines  fahrenden  Gesellen 
and  Spiclmanns lieder  are  analogous  specimens  in  German  Htera- 
ture,  but  of  a  less  pronounced  character.  Schiller's  Pegasus  im 
Jock  seems  to  be  pulling  at  the  same  rope  as  these  haters  of  the 
work  society  expects  of  them,  but  it  is  only  apparently  so.  Our 
great  poet  sides  not  with  the  impotent  sluggard,  but  with  that 
overflowing  energy  which  would  fain  do  greater  things  than  the 
work  of  an  office-boy  or  a  night-watchman. 

Moreover,  the  pseudo-artistic  loafer,  in  spite  of  his  imbecility 
and  self-esteem,  cannot  fail  to  perceive  that  his  mode  of  life 
runs  contrary  to  the  laws  on  which  the  structure  of  society  and 
civilization  are  based,  and  he  feels  the  need  of  justifying  himself 
in  his  own  eyes.  This  he  does  by  investing  with  a  high  signi- 
ficance the  dreams  and  chatter  over  which  he  wastes  his  time, 
calculated  to  arouse  in  him  the  illusion  that  they  rival  in  value 
the  most  serious  productions.  '  The  fact  is,  you  see,'  says  M. 
Stephane  Mallarm6,  '  that  a  fine  book  is  the  end  for  which  the 
world  was  made.'*  Morice  complains*}-  touchingly  that  the 
poetic  mind  '  should  be  bound  to  suffer  the  interruption  of  a 
twenty-eight  days'  army  drill  between  the  two  halves  of  a  verse.' 
'  The  excitement  of  the  streets,'  he  goes  on,  '  the  jarring  of  the 
Governmental  engine,  the  newspapers,  the  elections,  the  change 
of  the  Ministry,  have  never  made  so  much  noise ;  the  stormy 
and  turbulent  autocracy  of  trade  has  suppressed  the  love  of  the 
beautiful  in  the  thoughts  of  the  multitude,  and  industry  has 
killed  as  much  silence  as  politics  might  still  have  permitted  to 
survive.'  In  fact,  what  are  all  these  nothings  —  commerce, 
manufactures,  politics,  administration — against  the  immense  im- 
portance of  a  hemistich  t 

The  drivelling  of  the  Symbolists  was  not  entirely  lost  in  the 
atmosphere  of  their  cafe,  like  the  smoke  of  their  pipes  and 
cigarettes.  A  certain  amount  of  it  was  perpetuated,  and  ap- 
peared in  the  Revue  Independante,  the  Eevue  Contempuraine,  and 
other  fugitive  periodicals,  which  served  as  organs  to  the  round 
table  of  the  Francois  I.  These  little  journals  and  the  books 
published  by  the  Symbolists  were  not  at  first  noticed  outside  the 
cafe.  Then  it  happened  that  chroniquenrs  of  the  Boulevard 
papers,  into  whose  hands  these  writings  chanced  to  fall,  devoted 
an  article  to  them  on  days  when  '  copy  '  was  scanty,  but  only  to 
hold  them  up  to  ridicule.  That  was  all  the  Symbolists  wanted. 
Mockery  or  praise  mattered  little  so  long  as  they  got  noticed. 
Now  they  were  in  the  saddle,  and  showed  at  once  what  un- 
paralleled circus-riders  they  were.  They  themselves  used  every 
effort  to  get  into  the  larger  newspapers,  and  when  one  of  them 
succeeded,  like  the  smith  of  Juterbock  in  the  familiar  fairy  tale, 

*  Jules  Huret,  Enqiiete  stir  V Evolution  litteraire.     Paris,  1891,  p.  65. 
f  Charles  Morice,  op.  cit.,  p.  271. 


I04  DEGENERATION 

in  throwing  his  cap  into  an  editor^s  office  through  the  crack  of 
the  door  incautiously  put  ajar,  he  followed  it  neck  and  crop, 
took  possession  of  the  place,  and  in  the  twinkling  of  an  eye 
transformed  it  into  the  citadel  of  the  Symbolist  party.  In  these 
tactics  everything  served  their  turn  —  the  dried-up  scepticism 
and  apathy  of  Parisian  editors,  who  take  nothing  seriously,  are 
capable  neither  of  enthusiasm  nor  of  repugnance,  and  only  know 
the  cardinal  principle  of  their  business,  viz.,  to  make  a  noise,  to 
arouse  curiosity,  to  forestall  others  by  bringing  out  something 
new  and  sensational  ;  the  uncritical  gaping  attitude  of  the 
public,  who  repeat  in  faith  all  that  their  newspaper  gossips  to 
them  with  an  air  of  importance  ;  the  cowardice  and  cupboard- 
love  of  the  critics  who,  finding  themselves  confronted  by  a  closed 
and  numerous  band  of  reckless  young  men,  got  nervous  at  the 
sight  of  their  clenched  fists  and  angry  threatening  glances, 
and  did  not  dare  to  quarrel  with  them  ;  the  low  cunning  of 
the  ambitious,  who  hoped  to  make  a  good  bargain  if  they 
speculated  on  the  rise  of  shares  in  Symbolism.  Thus  the  very 
worst  and  most  despicable  characteristics  of  editors,  critics, 
aspiring  authors,  and  newspaper  readers,  co-operated  to  make 
known,  and,  in  part,  even  famous,  the  names  of  the  original 
habitues  of  the  Frangois  I.,  and  to  awaken  the  conviction  in 
very  many  weak  minds  of  both  hemispheres  that  their  tendency 
governed  the  literature  of  the  day,  and  included  all  the  germs  of 
the  future.  This  triumph  of  the  Symbolists  marks  the  victory 
of  the  gang  over  the  individual.  It  proves  the  superiority  of 
attack  over  defence,  and  the  efficacy  of  mutual-admiration-insur- 
ance, even  in  the  case  of  the  most  beggarly  incapacity. 

With  all  their  differences,  the  works  of  the  Symbolists  have 
two  features  in  common.  They  are  vague  often  to  the  point 
of  being  unintelligible,  and  they  are  pious.  Their  vagueness 
is  only  to  be  expected,  after  all  that  has  been  said  here  about 
the  peculiarities  of  mystic  thought.  Their  piousness  has 
attained  to  an  importance  which  makes  it  necessary  to  consider 
it  more  in  detail. 

When,  in  the  last  few  years,  a  large  number  of  mysteries, 
passion  plays,  golden  legends,  and  cantatas  appeared,  when  one 
dozen  after  another  of  new  poets  and  authors,  in  their  first 
poems,  novels,  and  treatises,  made  ardent  confessions  of  faith, 
invoked  the  Virgin  Mary,  spoke  with  rapture  of  the  sacrifice  of 
the  Mass,  and  knelt  in  fervent  prayer,  the  cry  arose  amongst 
reactionists,  who  have  a  vested  interest  in  diffusing  a  belief  in 
a  reversion  of  cultured  humanity  to  the  mental  darkness  of  the 
past :  '  Behold,  the  youth,  the  hope,  the  future  of  the  French 
people  is  turning  away  from  science  ;  "  emancipation "  is 
becoming  bankrupt  ;  souls  are  opening  again  to  religion,  and 
the  Holy  Catholic  Church  steps  anew  into  its  lofty  office,  as  the 


MYSTICISM  105 

teacher,  comforter,  and  guide  of  civilized  mankind.'  The 
SymboHstic  tendency  is  designedly  called  *  neo-Catholic,'  and 
certain  critics  pointed  to  its  appearance  and  success  as  a 
proof  that  freethought  was  overthrown  by  faith.  '  Even  the 
most  superficial  glance  at  the  state  of  the  world,'  writes  Edouard 
Rod,*  'shows  us  that  we  are  on  all  sides  in  the  full  swing  of 
reaction.'  And,  further,  '  I  believe  in  reaction  in  every  sense 
of  the  word.  How  far  this  reaction  will  go  is  the  secret  of 
to-morrow.' 

The  jubilant  heralds  of  the  new  reaction,  in  inquiring  into 
the  cause  of  this  movement,  find,  with  remarkable  unanimity, 
this  answer,  viz.  :  The  best  and  most  cultivated  minds  return  to 
faith,  because  they  found  out  that  science  had  deceived  them, 
and  not  done  for  them  what  it  had  promised  to  do.  'The  man 
of  this  century,'  says  M.  Melchior  de  Vogue,i*  '  has  acquired 
a  very  excusable  confidence  in  himself.  .  .  .  The  rational 
mechanism  of  the  world  has  been  revealed  to  him.  ...  In  the 
explanation  of  things  the  Divine  order  is  wholly  eliminated.  .  .  . 
Besides,  why  follow  after  doubtful  causes,  when  the  operations 
of  the  universe  and  of  humanity  had  become  so  clear  to  the 
physicist  and  physiologist  ?  .  .  .  The  least  wrong  God  ever 
wrought  was  that  of  being  unnecessary.  Great  minds  assured 
us  of  this,  and  all  mediocre  spirits  were  convinced  of  it.  The 
eighteenth  century  had  inaugurated  the  worship  of  Reason. 
The  rapture  of  that  millennium  lasted  but  a  moment.  Then 
came  eternal  disillusion,  the  regularly  recurring  ruin  of  all  that 
man  had  built  upon  the  hollow  basis  of  his  reason.  .  .  .  He  had 
to  admit  that,  beyond  the  circle  of  acquired  truths,  the  abyss  of 
ignorance  appeared  again  just  as  deep,  just  as  disquieting.' 

Charles  Morice,  the  theorist  and  philosopher  of  the  Symbolists, 
arraigns  Science  on  almost  every  page  of  his  book.  La  Litterattire 
de  toiit-a-rJieure,  for  her  great  and  divers  sins.  *  It  is  lament- 
able,' he  says  in  his  apocalyptic  phraseology,^  'that  our  learned 
men  have  no  idea  how,  in  popularizing  science,  they  were  dis- 
organizing it  (.'').  To  entrust  principles  to  inferior  memories^ 
is  to  expose  them  to  the  uncertainty  of  unauthorized  interpre- 
tations, of  erroneous  commentaries  and  heterodox  hypotheses. 
For  the  word  that  the  books  contain  is  a  dead  letter,  and  the 
books  themselves  may  perish,  but  the  impact  which  they  leave 
behind  them,  the  breath  going  forth  from  them,  survives.  And 
what  if  they  have  breathed  out  storm  and  unloosed  (!)  darkness  .'' 
But  this  is  just  what  all  this  chaos  of  vulgarization  has  as  its 
most  patent  result.  ...  Is  not  such  the  natural  consequence 
of  a  century  of  psychological  investigation,  which  was  a  good 
training    for    the    reason,    but    whose    immediate    and    actual 

♦  Huret,  op.  cit.^  p.  14.  f  V''^  E.  M.  de  Vogiid,  op.  cit.,  p.  xix  et  seq. 

X  Morice,  op.  cit.,  pp.  5,  103,  177. 


io6  DEGENERATION 

consequences  must  inevitably  be  weariness,  and  disgust,  ay, 
and  despair  of  reason  ?  .  .  .  Science  had  erased  the  word 
mystery.  With  the  same  stroke  of  the  pen  she  had  expunged 
the  words  beauty,  truth,  joy,  humanity.  .  .  .  And  now  mys- 
ticism takes  from  Science,  the  intruder  and  usurper,  not  only 
all  that  she  had  stolen,  but  something  also,  it  may  be,  of  her 
own  property.  The  reaction  against  the  shameless  and  miser- 
able negations  of  scientific  literature  .  .  .  has  taken  the  form 
of  an  unforeseen  poetical  restoration  of  Catholicism.' 

Another  graphomaniac,  the  author  of  that  imbecile  book, 
Rembrandt  as  Educator^  drivels  in  almost  the  same  way. 
*  Interest  in  science,  and  especially  in  the  once  so  popular 
natural  science,  has  widely  diminished  of  late  in  the  German 
worldo  .  .  ,  There  has  been  to  a  certain  extent  a  surfeit  of 
induction  ;  there  is  a  longing  for  synthesis  ;  the  days  of  objec- 
tivity are  declining  once  more  to  their  end,  and,  in  its  place, 
subjectivity  knocks  at  the  door.'* 

Edouard  Rod-f*  says :  *  The  century  has  advanced  without 
keeping  all  its  promises';  and  further  on  he  speaks  again  of 
'this  ageing  and  deluded  century.' 

In  a  small  book,  which  has  become  a  sort  of  gospel  to 
imbeciles  and  idiots,  Le  Devoir  present,  the  author,  M.  Paul 
Desjardins,!  makes  continual  attacks  on  'so-called  scientific 
empiricism,'  and  speaks  of  the  '  negativists,  the  empiricists,  and 
the  mechanists,  whose  attention  is  wholly  taken  up  with  physical 
and  inexorable  forces,'  boasting  of  his  intention  '  to  render 
invalid  the  value  of  the  empirical  methods.' 

Even  a  serious  thinker,  M.  F.  Paulhan,§  in  his  investigation 
of  the  basis  of  French  neo-mysticism,  comes  to  the  conclusion 
that  natural  science  has  shown  itself  powerless  to  satisfy  the 
needs  of  mankind.  *  We  feel  ourselves  surrounded  by  a  vast 
unknown,  and  demand  that  at  least  access  to  it  should  be  per- 
mitted to  us.  Evolution  and  positivism  have  blocked  the  way. 
,  .  .  For  these  reasons  evolution  could  not  but  show  itself 
incapable  of  guiding  the  mind,  even  if  it  left  us  great  thoughts.' 

Overwhelming  as  may  appear  this  unanimity  between  strong 
minds  commanding  respect  and  weak  graphomaniacs,  it  does 
not,  nevertheless,  contain  the  slightest  spark  of  truth.  To 
assert  that  the  world  turns  away  from  science  because  the 
'  empirical,'  which  means  the  scientific,  method  of  observation 
and  registration  has  suffered  shipwreck,  is  either  a  conscious  lie 
or  shows  lack  of  mental  responsibility.  A  healthy-minded  and 
honourable  man  must   almost    feel   ashamed  to  have   still   to 

*  Rembrandt  als  Erzieher.     Leipzig^,  1890,  p.  2. 

f  Edouard  Rod,  Les  Idees  morales  dii  Temps prhent.     Paris,  1892,  p.  66, 

J  Paul  Desjardins,  Le  Devoir  prhent.     Paris,  1892,  pp.  5,  8,  39. 

§   F.  Paulhan,  Le  nouveau  Mysticisme.     Paris,  1891,  p.  120. 


MYSTICISM  107 

demonstrate  this.  In  the  last  ten  years,  by  means  of  spectrum- 
analysis,  science  has  made  disclosures  in  the  constitution  of  the 
most  distant  heavenly  bodies,  their  component  matter,  their 
degree  of  heat,  the  speed  and  direction  of  their  motions  ;  it  has 
firmly  established  the  essential  unity  of  all  modes  of  force,  and 
has  made  highly  probable  the  unity  of  all  matter  ;  it  is  on  the 
track  of  the  formation  and  development  of  chemical  elements, 
and  it  has  learnt  to  understand  the  building  up  of  extremely 
intricate  organic  combinations ;  it  shows  us  the  relations  of 
atoms  in  molecules,  and  the  position  of  molecules  in  space ;  it 
has  thrown  wonderful  light  on  the  conditions  of  the  action  of 
electricity,  and  placed  this  force  at  the  service  of  mankind  ; 
it  has  renewed  geology  and  palaeontology,  and  disentangled  the 
concatenation  of  animal  and  vegetable  forms  of  life  ;  it  has 
newly  created  biology  and  embryology,  and  has  explained  in  a 
surprising  manner,  through  the  discovery  and  investigation  of 
germs,  some  of  the  most  disquieting  mysteries  of  perpetual 
metamorphosis,  illness,  and  death ;  it  has  found  or  perfected 
methods  which,  like  chronography,  instantaneous  photography, 
etc.,  permit  of  the  analysis  and  registration  of  the  most  fleeting 
phenomena,  not  immediately  apprehensible  by  human  sense, 
and  which  promise  to  become  extremely  fruitful  for  the  know- 
ledge of  nature.  And  in  the  face  of  such  splendid,  such  over- 
whelmingly grand  results,  the  enumeration  of  which  could  easily 
be  doubled  and  trebled,  does  anyone  dare  to  speak  of  the 
shipwreck  of  science,  and  of  the  incapacity  of  the  empirical 
method  ? 

Science  is  said  not  to  have  kept  what  she  promised.  When 
has  she  ever  promised  anything  else  than  honest  and  attentive 
observation  of  phenomena  and,  if  possible,  establishment  of  the 
conditions  under  which  they  occur  ?  And  has  she  not  kept  this 
promise  .-'  Does  she  not  keep  it  perpetually  ?  If  anyone  has 
expected  of  her  that  she  would  explain  from  one  day  to 
another  the  whole  mechanism  of  the  universe,  like  a  juggler 
explains  his  apparent  magic,  he  has  indeed  no  idea  of  the  true 
mission  of  science.  She  denies  herself  all  leaps  and  flights. 
She  advances  step  by  step.  She  builds  slowly  and  patiently  a 
firm  bridge  out  into  the  Unknown,  and  can  throw  no  new  arch 
over  the  abyss  before  she  has  sunk  deep  the  foundations  of  a 
new  pier  in  the  depths,  and  raised  it  to  the  right  height. 

Meanwhile,  she  asks  nothing  at  all  about  the  first  cause  of 
phenomena,  so  long  as  she  has  so  many  more  proximate  causes 
to  investigate.  Many  of  the  most  eminent  men  of  science  go 
so  far,  indeed,  as  to  assert  that  the  first  cause  will  never  become 
the  object  of  scientific  investigation,  and  call  it,  with  Herbert 
Spencer,  'the  Unknowable,'  or  exclaim  despondingly  with  Du 
Bois-Reymond,  Igno7'abimus.     Both  of  them  in  this  respect  are 


ic8  DEGENERATION 

completely  unscientific,  and  only  prove  that  even  clear  thinkers 
like  Spencer,  and  sober  investigators  like  Du  Bois  Reymond, 
stand  yet  under  the  influence  of  theological  dreams.  Science  can 
speak  of  no  Unknowable,  since  this  would  presuppose  that  she 
is  able  to  mark  exactly  the  boundaries  of  the  Knowable.  This, 
however,  she  cannot  do,  since  every  new  discovery  thrusts  back 
that  boundary.  Moreover,  the  acceptance  of  an  Unknowable 
involves  the  acknowledgment  that  there  is  something  which  we 
cannot  know.  Now,  in  order  to  be  able  seriously  to  assert  the 
existence  of  this  Something,  either  we  must  have  acquired  some 
knowledge  of  it,  however  slight  and  indistinct,  and  this,  there- 
fore, would  prove  that  it  cannot  be  unknowable,  since  we 
actually  know  it,  and  nothing  then  would  justify  us  in  declaring 
beforehand  that  our  present  knowledge  of  it,  however  little  it 
may  be,  will  not  be  extended  and  deepened  ;  or  else  we  have  no 
knowledge,  even  of  the  minutest  character,  of  the  philosopher's 
Unknowable,  in  which  case  it  cannot  exist  for  us.  The  whole 
conception  is  based  upon  nothing,  and  the  word  is  an  idle 
creation  of  a  dreaming  imagination.  The  same  thing  can  be 
said  of  Ignorabwius.  It  is  the  opposite  of  science.  It  is  not  a 
correct  inference  from  well-founded  premises,  it  is  not  the  result 
of  observation,  but  a  mystical  prophecy.  No  one  has  the  right 
to  make  communications  with  respect  to  the  future  as  matters 
of  fact.  Science  can  announce  what  she  knows  to-day  ;  she  can 
also  mark  off  exactly  what  she  does  not  know ;  but  to  say  what 
she  will  or  will  not  at  any  time  know  is  not  her  office. 

It  is  true  that  whoever  asks  from  Science  that  she  should  give 
an  answer  to  all  the  questions  of  idle  and  restless  minds  with 
unshaken  and  audacious  certainty  must  be  disappointed  by  her; 
for  she  will  not,  and  cannot,  fulfil  his  desires.  Theology  and 
metaphysics  have  an  easier  task.  They  devise  some  fable,  and 
propound  it  with  overwhelming  earnestness.  If  anyone  does 
not  believe  in  them,  they  threaten  and  insult  the  intractable 
client;  but  they  can  prove  nothing  to  him,  they  cannot  force 
him  to  take  their  chimeras  for  cash.  Theology  and  meta- 
physics can  never  be  brought  into  a  dilemma.  It  costs  them 
nothing  to  add  to  their  words  more  words,  to  unite  to  one 
voluntary  assertion  another,  and  pile  up  dogma  upon  dogma. 
It  will  never  occur  to  the  serious  sound  mind,  which  thirsts  after 
real  knowledge,  to  seek  it  from  metaphysics  or  theology.  They 
appeal  only  to  childish  brains,  whose  desire  for  knowledge,  or, 
rather,  whose  curiosity,  is  fully  satisfied  with  the  cradling  croon 
of  an  old  wife's  tale. 

Science  does  not  compete  with  theology  and  metaphysics. 
If  the  latter  declare  themselves  able  to  explain  the  whole 
phenomenon  of  the  universe,  Science  shows  that  these  pretended 
explanations  are  empty  chatter.     She,  for  her  part,  is  naturally 


MYSTICISM  109 

on  her  guard  against  putting  in  the  place  of  a  proved  absurdity 
another  absurdity.  She  says  modestly :  '  Here  we  have  a  fact, 
here  an  assumption,  here  a  conjecture.  'Tis  a  rogue  who  gives 
more  than  he  has.'  If  this  does  not  satisfy  the  neo-Catholics, 
they  should  sit  down  and  themselves  investigate,  themselves 
find  out  new  facts,  and  help  to  make  clear  the  weird  obscurity 
of  the  phenomenon  of  the  universe.  That  would  be  a  proof  of  a 
true  desire  for  knowledge.  At  the  table  of  Science  there  is 
room  for  all,  and  every  fellow-observer  is  welcome.  But  this 
does  not  enter  into  even  the  dreams  of  these  poor  creatures,  who 
drivel  about  the  'bankruptcy  of  science.'  Talk  is  so  much 
easier  and  more  comfortable  than  inquiry  and  discovery  ! 

True,  science  tells  us  nothing  about  the  life  after  death,  of 
harp-concerts  in  Paradise,  and  of  the  transformation  of  stupid 
youths  and  hysterical  geese  into  white-clad  angels  with  rain- 
bow-coloured wings.  It  contents  itself,  in  a  much  more  plain 
and  prosaic  manner,  with  alleviating  the  existence  of  mankind 
on  earth.  It  lessens  the  average  of  m.ortality,  and  lengthens  the 
life  of  the  individual  through  the  suppression  of  known  causes 
of  disease  ;  it  invents  new  comforts,  and  makes  easier  the 
struggle  against  Nature's  destructive  powers.  The  Symbolist, 
who  is  preserved  after  surgical  interference  through  asepsy  from 
suppuration,  mortification,  and  death  ;  who  protects  himself  by 
a  Chamberland  filter  from  typhus  ;  who  by  the  careless  turning 
of  a  button  fills  his  room  with  electric  light ;  who  through  a 
telephone  can  converse  with  someone  beloved  in  far-distant 
countries,  has  to  thank  this  alleged  bankrupt  science  for  it  all, 
and  not  the  theology  to  which  he  maintains  that  he  wants  to 
return. 

The  demand  that  science  should  give  not  only  true,  if  limited, 
conclusions,  and  offer  not  only  tangible  benefits,  but  also  solve 
all  enigmas  to-day  and  at  once,  and  make  all  men  omniscient, 
happy,  and  good,  is  ridiculous.  Theology  and  metaphysics  have 
never  fulfilled  this  demand.  It  is  simply  the  intellectual  mani- 
festation of  the  same  foolish  conceit,  which  in  material  concerns 
reveals  itself  in  hankering  after  pleasure  and  in  shirking  work. 
The  man  who  has  lost  his  social  status,  who  craves  for  wine  and 
women,  for  idleness  and  honours,  and  complains  of  the  consti- 
tution of  society  because  it  offers  no  satisfaction  to  his  lusts, 
is  own  brother  to  the  Symbolist  who  demands  truth,  and 
reviles  science  because  it  does  not  hand  it  to  him  on  a  golden 
platter.  Both  betray  a  similar  incapacity  to  grasp  the  reality  of 
things,  and  to  understand  that  it  is  not  possible  to  acquire  goods 
without  bodily  labour,  or  truth  without  mental  exertion.  The 
capable  man  who  wrests  her  gifts  from  Nature,  the  industrious 
inquirer  who  in  the  sweat  of  his  brow  bores  into  the  sources  of 
knowledge,  inspires  respect  and  cordial  sympathy.    On  the  other 


no  DEGENERATION 

hand,  there  can  be  but  little  esteem  for  the  discontented  idlers 
who  look  for  riches  from  a  lucky  lottery  ticket,  or  a  rich  uncle, 
and  for  enlightenment  from  a  revelation  which  is  to  come  to 
them  without  trouble  on  their  part  over  the  slovenly  beer- 
drinking  at  their  favourite  cafe. 

The  dunces  who  abuse  science,  reproach  it  also  for  having 
destroyed  ideals,  and  stolen  from  life  all  its  worth.  This  accusa- 
tion is  just  as  absurd  as  the  talk  about  the  bankruptcy  of  science. 
A  higher  ideal  than  the  increase  of  general  knowledge  there 
cannot  be.  What  saintly  legend  is  as  beautiful  as  the  life  of  an 
inquirer,  who  spends  his  existence  bending  over  a  microscope, 
almost  without  bodily  wants,  known  and  honoured  by  few, 
working  only  for  his  own  conscience'  sake,  without  any  other 
ambition  than  that  perhaps  one  little  new  fact  may  be  firmly 
established,  which  a  more  fortunate  successor  will  make  use  of 
in  a  brilliant  synthesis,  and  insert  as  a  stone  in  some  monument 
of  natural  science  .■'  What  religious  fable  has  inspired  with  a 
contempt  of  death  sublimer  martyrs  than  a  Gehlen,  who  sank 
down  poisoned  while  preparing  the  arsenious  hydrogen  which 
he  had  discovered  ;  or  a  Croce  Spinelli,  who  was  overtaken  by 
death  in  an  over-rapid  ascent  of  his  balloon  while  observing  the 
pressure  of  the  atmosphere ;  or  an  Ehrenberg,  who  became 
blind  over  his  life's  work  ;  or  a  Hyrtl,  who  almost  entirely 
destroyed  his  eyesight  by  his  anatomical  corrosive  preparations  ; 
or  the  doctors,  who  inoculate  themselves  with  some  deadly 
disease — not  to  speak  of  the  innumerable  crowd  of  discoverers 
travelling  to  the  North  Pole,  and  to  the  interior  of  dark  conti- 
nents? And  did  Archimedes  really  feel  his  life  to  be  so  worth- 
less when  he  entreated  the  pillaging  bands  of  Marcellus,  '  Do 
not  disturb  my  circles'?  Genuine  healthy  poetry  has  always 
recognised  this,  and  finds  its  most  ideal  characters,  not  in  a 
devotee,  who  murmurs  prayers  with  drivelling  lips,  and  stares 
with  distorted  eyes  at  some  visual  hallucination,  but  in  a 
Prometheus  and  a  Faust,  who  wrestle  for  science,  i.e.,  for  exact 
knowledge  of  nature. 

The  assertion  that  science  has  not  kept  its  promises,  and  that, 
therefore,  the  rising  generation  is  turning  away  from  it,  does  not 
for  a  moment  resist  criticism,  and  is  entirely  without  foundation. 
It  is  a  senseless  premise  of  neo-Catholicism,  were  the  Symbolists 
to  declare  a  hundred  times  over  that  disgust  with  science  had 
made  them  mystics.  The  explanations  which  even  a  healthy- 
minded  man  makes  with  respect  to  the  true  motives  of  his 
actions  are  only  to  be  accepted  with  the  most  cautious  criticism  ; 
those  proffered  by  the  degenerate  are  completely  useless.  For 
the  impulse  to  act  and  to  think  originate,  for  the  degenerate,  in 
the  unconscious,  and  consciousness  finds  subsequent,  and  in  some 
measure  plausible,  reasons  for  the  thoughts  and  deeds,  the  real 


MYSTICISM  III 

source  of  which  is  unknown  to  itself.  Every  book  on  suggestion 
gives  illustrations  of  Charcot's  typical  case  :  a  hysterical  female 
is  sent  into  hypnotic  sleep,  and  it  is  suggested  to  her  that  on 
awaking  she  is  to  stab  one  of  the  doctors  present.  She  is  then 
awakened.  She  grasps  a,  knife  and  makes  for  her  appointed 
victim.  The  blade  is  wrenched  from  her,  and  she  is  asked  why 
she  wishes  to  murder  the  doctor.  She  answers  without  hesita- 
tion, '  Because  he  has  done  me  an  injury.'  Note  that  she 
had  seen  him  that  day  for  the  first  time  in  her  life.  This  person 
felt  when  in  a  waking  condition  the  impulse  to  kill  the  doctor. 
Her  consciousness  had  no  presentiment  that  this  impulse  had 
been  suggested  to  her  in  a  hypnotic  state.  Consciousness 
knows  that  a  murder  is  never  committed  without  some  motive. 
Forced  to  find  a  motive  for  the  attempted  murder,  consciousness 
falls  back  upon  the  only  one  reasonably  possible  under  the  cir- 
cumstances, and  fancies  that  it  got  hold  of  the  idea  of  murder  in 
order  to  avenge  some  wrong. 

The  brothers  Janet*  offer,  as  an  explanation  of  this  psycho- 
logical phenomenon,  the  hypothesis  of  dual  personality,  '  Every 
person  consists  of  two  •  personalities,  one  conscious  and  one 
unconscious.  Among  healthy  persons  both  are  alike  complete, 
and  both  in  equilibrium.  In  the  hysteric  they  are  unequal,  and 
out  of  equilibrium.  One  of  the  two  personalities,  usually  the 
conscious,  is  incomplete,  the  other  remaining  perfect.'  The 
conscious  personality  has  the  thankless  task  of  inventing 
reasons  for  the  actions  of  the  unconscious.  It  resembles  the 
familiar  game  where  one  person  makes  movements  and  another 
says  words  in  keeping  with  them.  In  the  degenerate  with  dis- 
turbed equilibrium  consciousness  has  to  play  the  part  of  an  ape- 
like mother  finding  excuses  for  the  stupid  and  naughty  tricks  of 
a  spoiled  child.  The  unconscious  personality  commits  follies  and 
evil  deeds,  and  the  conscious,  standing  powerless  by,  and  unable 
to  hinder  it,  seeks  to  palliate  them  by  all  sorts  of  pretexts. 

The  cause  of  the  neo-Catholic  movement,  then,  is  not  to  be 
sought  in  any  objection  felt  by  younger  minds  to  science,  or  in 
their  having  any  complaint  to  make  against  it.  A  De  VogUe,  a 
Rod,  a  Desjardins,  a  Paulhan,  who  impute  such  a  basis  to  the 
mysticism  of  the  Symbolists,  arbitrarily  attribute  to  it  an  origin 
which  it  never  had.  It  is  due  solely  and  alone  to  the  degener- 
ate condition  of  its  inventors.  Neo-Catholicism  is  rooted  in 
emotivity  and  mysticism,  both  of  these  being  the  most  frequent 
and  most  distinctive  stigmata  of  the  degenerate. 

That  the  mysticism  of  the  degenerate,  even  in  France,  the 

*  Pierre  Janet,  '  Les  Actes  inconscients  et  le  D^doublement  de  la  Per- 
sonality,' Revue  philosophique,  December,  1886.  Paul  Janet,  '  L'Hystdrie  et 
I'Hvpnotismed'apreslaThdorie  de  la  double  Personnalit^j'Ti'^T/z^^  scientijique^ 
1888,  l^^vol.,  p.  616. 


112  DEGENERATION 

land  of  Voltaire,  has  frequently  taken  the  form  of  religious 
enthusiasm  might  at  first  seem  strange,  but  will  be  understood  if 
we  consider  the  political  and  social  circumstances  of  the  French 
people  during  the  last  decade. 

The  great  Revolution  proclaimed  three  ideals :  Liberty, 
Equality,  and  Fraternity.  Fraternity  is  a  harmless  word  which 
has  no  real  meaning,  and  therefore  disturbs  nobody.  Liberty, 
to  the  upper  classes,  is  certainly  unpleasant,  and  they  lament 
greatly  over  the  sovereignty  of  the  people  and  universal  suffrage, 
but  still  they  bear,  without  too  much  complaint,  a  state  of  things 
which,  after  all,  is  sufficiently  mitigated  by  a  prying  administra- 
tion, police  supervision,  militarism,  and  gendarmerie,  and  which 
will  always  be  sufficient  to  keep  the  mob  in  leash.  But  equality 
to  those  in  possession  is  an  insufferable  abomination.  It  is  the 
one  thing  won  by  the  great  Revolution,  which  has  outlasted  all 
subsequent  changes  in  the  form  of  government,  and  has  remained 
alive  in  the  French  people.  The  Frenchman  does  not  know 
much  about  fraternity  ;  his  liberty  in  many  ways  has  a  muzzle 
as  its  emblem  ;  but  his  equality  he  possesses  as  a  matter  of  fact, 
and  to  it  he  holds  firmly.  The  lowest  vagabond,  the  bully  of 
the  capital,  the  rag-picker,  the  hostler,  believes  that  he  is  quite 
as  good  as  the  duke,  and  says  so  to  his  face  without  the  smallest 
hesitation  if  occasion  arises.  The  reasons  of  the  Frenchman's 
fanaticism  for  equality  are  not  particularly  elevated.  The  feel- 
ing does  not  spring  from  a  proud,  manly  consciousness  and  the 
knowledge  of  his  own  worth,  but  from  low  envy  and  malicious 
intolerance.  There  shall  be  nothing  above  the  dead  level ! 
There  shall  be  nothing  better,  nothing  more  beautiful  or  even 
more  striking,  than  the  average  vulgarity  !  The  upper  classes 
struggle  against  this  rage  for  equalization  with  passionate 
vehemence,  especially  and  precisely  those  who  have  reached 
their  high  position  through  the  great  Revolution. 

The  grandchildren  of  the  rural  serfs,  who  plundered  and 
destroyed  the  country  seats  of  noblemen,  basely  murdered  the 
inmates,  and  seized  upon  their  lands;  the  descendants  of  town 
grocers  and  cobblers,  who  waxed  rich  as  politicians  of  street  and 
club,  as  speculators  in  national  property  and  assignats,  and  as 
swindlers  in  army  purveyance,  do  not  want  to  become  identified 
with  the  mob.  They  want  to  form  a  privileged  class.  They 
want  to  be  recognised  as  belonging  to  a  more  honourable  caste. 
They  sought,  for  this  purpose,  a  distinguishing  mark,  which 
would  make  them  at  once  conspicuous  as  members  of  a  select 
class,  and  they  found  it  in  belonging  to  the  Church. 

This  choice  is  quite  intelligible.  The  mass  of  the  people  in 
France,  especially  in  towns,  is  sceptical,  and  the  aristocracy  of 
the  ancien  I'cgime,  who  in  the  eighteenth  century  bragged  about 
lice  thought,  had  come  out  of  the  deluge  of  17S9  as  very  piuus 


MYSTICISM  113 

persons,  comprehending  or  divining  the  inner  connection  between 
all  the  old  ideas  and  emblems  of  the  Faith,  of  the  Monarchy, 
and  of  feudal  nobility.  Hence,  through  their  clericalism,  the 
parvenus  at  once  established  a  contrast  between  themselves  and 
the  multitude  from  whom  they  wanted  to  keep  distinct,  and  a 
resemblance  with  the  class  into  which  they  would  like  to  smuggle 
or  thrust  themselves. 

Experience  teaches  that  the  instinct  of  preservation  is  often 
the  worst  adviser  in  positions  of  danger.  The  man  who  cannot 
swim,  falling  into  the  water,  involuntarily  throws  up  his  arms, 
and  thus  infallibly  lets  his  head  be  submerged  and  himself  be 
drowned  ;  whereas  his  mouth  and  nose  would  remain  above 
water  if  he  held  his  arms  and  hands  quietly  under  the  surface. 
The  bad  rider,  who  feels  his  seat  insecure,  usually  draws  up 
his  legs,  and  then  comes  the  certainty  of  a  fall ;  whereas  he 
would  probably  be  able  to  preserve  his  equilibrium  if  he  left  his 
legs  outstretched.  Thus  the  French  bourgeoisie,  who  knew  that 
they  had  snatched  for  themselves  the  fruits  of  the  great  upheaval, 
and  let  the  Fourth  Estate,  who  alone  had  made  the  Revolution, 
come  out  of  it  empty-handed,  chose  the  worst  means  for  retain- 
ing their  unjustly-acquired  possessions  and  privileges,  and  for 
escaping  unnatural  equalization  when  they  made  use  of  their 
clericalism  for  the  establishment  of  their  social  status.  They 
alienated,  in  consequence,  the  wisest,  strongest,  and  most  culti- 
vated minds,  and  drove  over  to  socialism  many  young  men  who, 
though  intellectually  radical,  were  yet  economically  conservative, 
and  little  in  favour  of  equality,  and  who  would  have  become 
a  strong  defence  for  a  free-thinking  bourgeoisie,  but  who  felt 
that  socialism,  however  radical  its  economic  doctrines  and 
impossible  its  theories  of  equality,  represented  emancipation. 

I3ut  I  have  not  to  judge  here  whether  the  religious  mimicry 
of  the  French  bourgeoisie,  which  was  to  make  them  resemble 
the  old  nobility,  exerts  the  protection  expected  of  it  or  not ;  I 
only  set  down  the  fact  of  this  mimicry.  It  is  a  necessary  con- 
sequence that  all  the  rich  and  snobbish  parvenus  send  their 
sons  to  the  Jesuit  middle  and  high  schools.  To  be  educated 
by  the  Jesuits  is  regarded  as  a  sign  of  caste,  very  much  as  is 
membership  of  the  Jockey  Club.  The  old  pupils  of  the  Jesuits 
form  a  *  black  freemasonry,'  which  zealously  advances  their  pro- 
teges in  every  career,  marries  them  to  heiresses,  hurries  to  their 
assistance  in  misfortune,  hushes  up  their  sins,  stifles  scandal,  etc. 
It  is  the  Jesuits  who  for  the  last  decade  have  made  it  their  care 
to  inculcate  their  own  habits  of  thinking  into  the  rich  and 
high-born  youth  of  France  entrusted  to  them.  These  youths 
brought  brains  of  hereditary  deficiency,  and  therefore  mystically 
disposed,  into  the  clerical  schools,  and  these  then  gave  to  the 
mystic  thoughts  of  the  degenerate  pupils  a  religious  content. 


114  DEGENERATION 

This  is  not  an  arbitrary  assumption,  but  a  well-founded  fact. 
Charles  Morice,  the  aesthetic  theorist  and  philosopher  of  the 
Symbolists,  received  his  education  from  the  Jesuits,  according 
to  the  testimony  of  his  friends.*  So  did  Louis  le  Cardonnel, 
Henri  de  Regnier,  and  others.  The  Jesuits  invented  the  phrase 
'  bankruptcy  of  science,'  and  their  pupils  repeat  it  after  them, 
because  it  includes  a  plausible  explanation  of  their  pietistic 
mooning,  the  real  organic  causes  of  which  are  unknown  to  them, 
and  for  that  matter  would  not  be  understood  if  they  were 
known.  '  I  return  to  faith,  because  science  does  not  satisfy  me,' 
is  a  possible  statement.  It  is  even  a  superior  thing  to  say,  since 
it  presupposes  a  thirst  for  truth  and  a  noble  interest  in  great 
questions.  On  the  contrary,  a  man  will  hardly  be  willing  to 
confess,  *  I  am  an  enthusiastic  admirer  of  the  Trinity  and  the 
Holy  Virgin  because  I  am  degenerate,  and  my  brain  is  in- 
capable of  attention  and  clear  thought.' 

That  the  Jesuitical  argument  as  reported  by  MM.  de  Vogiie, 
Rod,  etc.,  can  have  found  credit  beyond  clerical  circles  and 
degenerate  youth,  that  the  half-educated  are  heard  repeating 
to-day,  '  Science  is  conquered,  the  future  belongs  to  religion,'  is 
consistent  with  the  mental  peculiarities  of  the  million.  They 
never  have  recourse  to  facts,  but  repeat  the  ready-made  pro- 
positions with  which  they  have  been  prompted.  If  they  would 
have  regard  to  facts,  they  would  know  that  the  number  of 
faculties,  teachers  and  students  of  natural  science,  of  scientific 
periodicals  and  books,  of  their  subscribers  and  readers,  of 
laboratories,  scientific  societies  and  reports  to  the  academies 
increases  year  by  year.  It  can  be  shown  by  figures  that  science 
does  not  lose,  but  continually  gains  ground.-f*  But  the  million 
does  not  care  about  exact  statistics.  In  France  it  accepts  with- 
out resistance  the  suggestion,  that  science  is  retreating  before 
religion,  from  a  few  newspapers,  written  mainly  for  clubmen 
and  gilded  courtezans,  into  the  columns  of  which  the  pupils  of 
the  clerical  schools  have  found  an  entrance.  Of  science  itself, 
of  its  hypotheses,  methods,  and  results,  they  have  never  known 
anything.  Science  was  at  one  time  the  fashion.  The  daily 
press  of  that  date  said,  '  We  live  in  a  scientific  age ' ;  the  news 
of  the  day  reported  the  travels  and  marriages  of  scientists  ;  the 
feuilleton-novels  contained  witty  allusions  to  Darwin  ;  the  in- 
ventors of  elegant  walking-sticks  and  perfumes  called  their  pro- 
ductions 'Evolution  Essence'  or  '  Selection  Canes  ' ;  those  who 

*  Morhardt,  o/>.  a'L,  p.  769. 

t  See  the  Catalogue  of  Scientific  Papers  compiled  and  published  by  the 
Royal  Society.  The  first  series  of  this  catalogue,  covering  the  time  from  1800 
to  1863,  comprises  six  volumes  ;  the  second,  dealing  with  the  decade  from 
1864  to  1S73,  comprises  two  volumes,  equivalent  to  at  least  three  of  the  first 
series  (1047  and  1310  pages);  of  the  third  series  (1874  to  1883)  only  one 
volume  has  been  issued  as  yet,  but  it  promises  to  outrun  the  second  by  at 
least  one  half. 


MYSTICISM  IIS 

affected  culture  took  themselves  seriously  for  the  pioneers  of 
progress  and  enlightenment.  To-day  those  social  circles  which 
set  the  fashions,  and  the  papers  which  seek  to  please  these 
circles,  decree  that,  not  science  is  chic,  but  faith,  and  now  the 
paragraphs  of  the  boulevard  papers  relate  small  piquant  sayings 
of  preachers  ;  in  the  feuilleton-novels  there  are  quotations  from 
the  Imitation  of  Christ ;  inventors  bring  out  richly-mounted 
prie-dieus  and  choice  rosaries,  and  the  Philistine  feels  with 
deep  emotion  the  miraculous  flower  of  faith  springing  up  and 
blossoming  in  his  heart.  Of  real  disciples  science  has  scarcely 
lost  one.  It  is  only  natural,  on  the  contrary,  that  the  plebs  of 
the  salons,  to  whom  it  has  never  been  more  than  a  fashion,  should 
turn  their  backs  on  it  at  the  mere  command  of  a  tailor  or  a  modiste. 

Thus  much  on  the  neo-Catholicism  which,  partly  for  party 
reasons,  partly  from  ignorance,  partly  from  snobbishness,  is 
mistaken  for  a  serious  intellectaal  movement  of  the  times. 

The  pretension  of  Symbolism  to  be,  not  only  a  return  to 
faith,  but  a  new  theory  of  art  and  poetry,  is  what  we  must  now 
proceed  to  test. 

If  we  wish  to  know  at  the  outset  what  Symbolists  understand 
by  symbol  and  symbolism,  we  ^hall  meet  with  the  same  difficulties 
we  encountered  in  determining  the  precise  meaning  of  the  name 
pre-Raphaelitism,  and  for  the  same  reason,  viz.,  because  the 
inventors  of  these  appellations  understood  by  them  hundreds  of 
different  mutually  contradictory,  indefinite  things,  or  simply 
nothing  at  all.  A  skilled  and  sagacious  journalist,  Jules  Huret,* 
instituted  an  inquiry  about  the  new  literary  movement  in  France, 
and  from  its  leading  representatives  acquired  information,  by 
which  he  has  furnished  us  with  a  trustworthy  knowledge  of  the 
meaning  which  they  connect,  or  pretend  to  connect,  with  the 
expressions  and  phraseology  of  their  programme.  I  will  here 
adduce  some  of  these  utterances  and  declarations.  They  will 
not  tell  us  what  Symbolism  is.  But  they  may  afford  us  some 
insight  into  symbolist  methods  of  thought. 

M.  Stephane  Mallarm6,  whose  leadership  of  the  Symbolist 
band  is  least  disputed  among  the  disciples,  expresses  himself  as 
follows :  '  To  name  an  object  means  to  suppress  three-quarters 
of  the  pleasure  of  a  poem — ix.,  of  the  happiness  which  consists 
in  gradually  divining  it.  Our  dream  should  be  to  suggest  the 
object.  The  symbol  is  the  perfected  use  of  this  mystery,  viz., 
to  conjure  up  an  object  gradually  in  order  to  show  the  condition 
of  a  soul ;  or,  conversely,  to  choose  an  object,  and  out  of  it  to 
reveal  a  state  of  the  soul  by  a  series  of  interpretations.' 

If  the  reader  does  not  at  once  understand  this  combination  of 
vague  words,  he  need  not  stop  to  solve  them.  Later  on  I  will 
translate  the  stammerings  of  this  weak  mind  into  the  speech  of 
sound  men. 

*  Jules  Huret,  Enqiiete  sur  V ^.volution  litteraire,     Paris,  i8gi. 


Ii6  DEGENERATION 

M.  Paul  Verlaine,  another  high-priest  of  the  sect,  expresses 
himself  as  follows  :  '  It  was  I  who,  in  the  year  1885,  laid  claim 
to  the  name  of  Symbolist.  The  Parnassians,  and  most  of  the 
romanticists,  in  a  certain  sense  lacked  symbols.  .  ,  .  Thence 
errors  of  local  colouring  in  history,  the  shrinking  up  of  the  myth 
through  false  philosophical  interpretations,  thought  without  the 
discernment  of  analogies,  the  anecdote  emptied  of  feeling.' 

Let  us  listen  to  a  few  second-rate  poets  of  the  group.  *  I 
declare  art,'  says  M.  Paul  Adam,  '  to  be  the  enshrining  of  a 
dogma  in  a  symbol.  It  is  a  means  of  making  a  system  prevail, 
and  of  bringing  truths  to  the  light  of  day.'  M.  Remy  de  Gour- 
mont  confesses  honestly  :  '  I  cannot  unveil  the  hidden  meaning 
of  the  word  "  symbolism,"  since  I  am  neither  a  theorist  nor  a 
magician.'  And  M.  Saint-Pol-Roux-le-Magnifique  utters  this 
profound  warning  :  '  Let  us  take  care  1  Symbolism  carried  to 
excess  leads  to  nonibrilisvie,  and  to  a  morbid  mechanism.  .  .  . 
This  symbolism  is  to  some  extent  a  parody  of  mysticism.  .  . . 
Pure  symbolism  is  an  anomaly  in  this  remarkable  century,  re- 
markable for  militant  activities.  Let  us  view  this  transitional 
art  as  a  clever  trick  played  upon  naturalism,  and  as  a  precursor 
of  the  poetry  of  to-morrow.' 

We  may  expect  from  the  theorists  and  philosophers  of  the 
group  more  exhaustive  information  concerning  their  methods 
and  aims.  Accordingly,  M.  Charles  Morice  instructs  us  how 
'  the  symbol  is  the  combination  of  the  objects  which  have 
aroused  our  sensations,  with  our  souls,  in  a  fiction  \_fictio}{\. 
The  means  is  suggestion  ;  it  is  a  question  of  giving  people  a 
remembrance  of  something  which  they  have  never  seen.'  And 
M,  Gustav  Kahn  says  :  *  For  me  personally,  symbolic  art  con- 
sists in  recording  in  a  cycle  of  works,  as  completely  as  possible, 
the  modifications  and  variations  of  the  mind  of  the  poet,  who  is 
inspired  by  an  aim  which  he  has  determined.' 

In  Germany  there  have  already  been  found  some  imbeciles 
and  idiots,  some  victims  of  hysteria  and  graphomania,  who  affirm 
that  they  understand  this  twaddle,  and  who  develop  it  further  in 
lectures,  newspaper  articles  and  books.  The  cultured  German 
Philistine,  who  from  of  old  has  had  preached  to  him  contempt 
for  '  platitude,'  i.e.^  for  healthy  common-sense,  and  admiration 
for  'deep  meaning,'  which  is  as  a  rule  only  the  futile  bubbling  of 
soft  and  addled  brains  incapable  of  thought,  becomes  visibly 
uneasy,  and  begins  to  inquire  if  there  may  not  really  be  some- 
thing behind  these  senseless  series  of  words.  In  France  people 
have  not  been  caught  on  the  limed  twigs  of  these  poor  fools  and 
cold-blooded  jesters,  but  have  considered  Symbolism  to  be  what 
in  fact  it  is,  madness  or  humbug.  We  shall  meet  with  these 
words  in  the  writings  of  noted  representatives  of  all  shades  of 
literary  thought. 

'The  Symbolists!'  exclaims   M.   Jules  Lemaitre,   'there  are 


MYSTICISM  117 

none.  .  .  .  They  themselves  do  not  know  what  they  are  cr 
what  they  want.  There  is  something  stirring  and  heaving  under 
the  earth,  but  unable  to  break  through.  Do  you  understand  ? 
When  they  have  painfully  produced  something,  they  would  like 
to  build  formulae  and  theories  around  it,  but  fail  in  doing  so, 
because  they  do  not  possess  the  necessary  strength  of  mind.  .  .  . 
They  are  jesters  with  a  certain  amount  of  sincerity — that  I 
grant  them — but  nevertheless  jesters.'  M.  Jos6phin  Peladan 
describes  them  as  *  whimsical  pyrotechnists  of  metrics  and 
glossaries,  who  combine  in  order  to  get  on,  and  give  themselves 
odd  names  in  order  to  get  known.'  M.  Jules  Bois  is  much  more 
forcible :  '  Disconnected  action,  confused  clamour,  such  are  the 
Symbolists.  Cacophony  of  savages  who  have  been  turning  over 
the  leaves  of  an  English  grammar,  or  a  glossary  of  obsolete 
words.  If  they  have  ever  known  anything,  they  pretend  to 
have  forgotten  it.  Indistinct,  faulty,  obscure,  they  are  never- 
theless as  solemn  as  augurs.  .  .  .  You,  decadent  Symbolists, 
you  deceive  us  with  childish  and  necromantic  formulae.'  Ver- 
laine  himself,  the  co-founder  of  Symbolism,  in  a  moment  of 
sincerity,  calls  his  followers  a  '  flat-footed  horde,  each  with  his 
own  banner,  on  which  is  inscribed  Reclame  l'  M.  Henri  de 
Regnier  says  apologetically  :  '  They  feel  the  need  of  gathering 
round  a  common  flag,  so  that  they  may  fight  more  effectually 
against  the  contented.'  M.  Zola  speaks  of  them  as  '  a  swarm  of 
sharks  who,  not  being  able  to  swallow  us,  devour  each  other.' 
M.  Joseph  Caraguel  designates  symbolical  literature  as  *  a 
literature  of  whining,  of  babbling,  of  empty  brains,  a  literature 
of  Sudanese  Griots  [minstrels].'  Edmond  Haraucourt  plainly 
discerns  the  aims  of  the  Symbolists  :  '  They  are  discontented, 
and  in  a  hurry.  They  are  the  Boulangists  of  literature.  We 
must  live !  We  would  take  a  place  in  the  world,  become 
notorious  or  notable.  We  beat  wildly  on  a  drum  which  is  not 
even  a  kettledrum.  .  .  .  Their  true  symbol  is  "  Goods  by  ex- 
press." Everyone  goes  by  express  train.  Their  destination 
— Fame.'  M.  Pierre  Quillard  thinks  that  under  the  title  of 
Symbolists  *  poets  of  rare  gifts  and  unmitigated  simpletons 
have  been  arbitrarily  included.'  And  M;  Gabriel  Vicaire  sees 
in  the  manifestoes  of  Symbolists  ,^nothing  but  school-boy  jokes.' 
Finally,  M.  Laurent  Tailhade,  one  of  the  leading  Symbolists, 
divulges  the  secret:  *I  have  never  attached  any  other  value  to 
this  performance  than  that  of  a  transient  amusement.  We 
took  in  the  credulous  judgment  of  a  few  literary  beginners  with 
the  joke  of  coloured  vowels,  Theban  love,  Schopenhauerism, 
and  other  pranks,  which  have  since  made  their  way  in  the 
world.'     Quite  so  ;  just,  as  we  have  already  said,  in  Germany. 

To  abuse,  however,  is  not  to  explain,  and  although  summary 
justice  is  fit  in  the  case  of  deliberate  swindlers,  who,  like 
quack-dentists,  play  the  savage  in  order  to  entice  money  from 


Ii8  DEGENERATION 

market-folk,  yet  anger  and  ridicule  are  out  of  place  in  dealing 
with  honest  imbeciles.  They  are  diseased  or  crippled,  and  as 
such  deserve  only  pity.  Their  infirmities  must  be  disclosed, 
but  severity  of  treatment  has  been  abolished  even  in  lunatic 
asylums  since  Pinel's  time. 

The  Symbolists,  so  far  as  they  are  honestly  degenerate  and 
imbecile,  can  think  only  in  a  mystical,  i.e.,  in  a  confused  way. 
The  unknown  is  to  them  more  powerful  than  the  known  ;  the 
activity  of  the  organic  nerves  preponderates  over  that  of  the 
cerebral  cortex ;  their  emotions  overrule  their  ideas.  When 
persons  of  this  kind  have  poetic  and  artistic  instincts,  they 
naturally  want  to  give  expression  to  their  own  mental  state. 
They  cannot  make  use  of  definite  words  of  clear  import,  for 
their  own  consciousness  holds  no  clearly-defined  univocal  ideas 
which  could  be  embodied  in  such  words.  They  choose,  there- 
fore, vague  equivocal  words,  because  these  best  conform  to  their 
ambiguous  and  equivocal  ideas.  The  more  indefinite,  the  more 
obscure  a  word  is,  so  much  the  better  does  it  suit  the  purpose  of 
the  imbecile,  and  it  is  notorious  that  among  the  insane  this 
habit  goes  so  far  that,  to  express  their  ideas,  which  have  become 
quite  formless,  they  invent  new  words,  which  are  no  longer 
merely  obscure,  but  devoid  of  all  meaning.  We  have  already 
seen  that,  for  the  typical  degenerate,  reality  has  no  significance. 
On  this  point  I  will  only  remind  the  reader  of  the  previously 
cited  utterances  of  D.  G.  Rossetti,  Morice,  etc.  Clear  speech 
serves  the  purpose  of  communication  of  the  actual.  It  has, 
therefore,  no  value  in  the  eyes  of  a  degenerate  subject.  He 
prizes  that  language  alone  which  does  not  force  him  to  follow 
the  speaker  attentively,  but  allows  him  to  indulge  without 
restraint  in  the  meanderings  of  his  own  reveries,  just  as  his  own 
language  does  not  aim  at  the  communication  of  definite 
thought,  but  is  only  intended  to  give  a  pale  reflection  of  the 
twilight  of  his  own  ideas.  That  is  what  M.  Mallarm^  means 
when  he  says:  'To  name  an  object  means  to  suppress  three 
quarters  of  the  pleasure.  .  ,  .  Our  dream  should  be  to  suggest 
the  object' 

Moreover,  the  thought  of  a  healthy  brain  has  a  flow  which  is 
regulated  by  the  laws  of  logic  and  the  supervision  of  attention. 
It  takes  for  its  content  a  definite  object,  manipulates  and  ex- 
hausts it.  The  healthy  man  can  tell  what  he  thinks,  and  his 
telling  has  a  beginning  and  an  end.  The  mystic  imbecile  thinks 
merely  according  to  the  laws  of  association,  and  without  the  red 
thread  of  attention.  He  has  fugitive  ideation.  He  can  never 
state  accurately  what  he  is  thinking  about  ;  he  can  only  denote 
the  emotion  which  at  the  moment  controls  his  consciousness. 
He  can  only  say  in  general,  *  I  am  sad,'  '  I  am  merry,'  *  I  am 
fond,'  '  I  am  afraid.'  His  mind  is  filled  with  evanescent,  floating, 
cloudy  ideas,  which  take  their  hue  from  the  reigning  emotion,  as 


MYSTICISM  119 

the  vapour  hovering  above  a  crater  flames  red  from  the  glow  at 
the  bottom  of  the  volcanic  caldron.  When  he  poetizes,  there- 
fore, he  will  never  develop  a  logical  train  of  thought,  but  will 
seek  by  means  of  obscure  words  of  distinctly  emotional  colouring 
to  represent  a  feeling,  a  mood.  What  he  prizes  in  poetical 
works  is  not  a  clear  narrative,  the  exposition  of  a  definite 
thought,  but  only  the  reflected  image  of  a  mood,  which  awakens 
in  him  a  similar,  but  not  necessarily  the  same,  mood.  The  de- 
generate are  well  aware  of  this  difference  between  a  work  which 
expresses  strong  mental  labour  and  one  in  which  merely  emo- 
tionally coloured  fugitive  ideation  ebbs  and  flows  ;  and  they 
eagerly  ask  for  a  distinguishing  name  for  that  kind  of  poetry  of 
which  alone  they  have  any  understanding.  In  France  they  have 
found  this  designation  in  the  word  'Symbolism.'  The  explana- 
tions which  the  Symbolists  themselves  give  of  their  cognomen 
appear  nonsensical ;  but  the  psychologist  gathers  clearly  from 
their  babbling  and  stammering  that  under  the  name 'symbol' 
they  understand  a  word  (or  series  of  words)  expressing,  not  a 
fact  of  the  external  world,  or  of  conscious  thought,  but  an  am- 
biguous glimmer  of  an  idea,  which  does  not  force  the  reader  to 
think,  but  allows  him  to  dream,  and  hence  brings  about  no  in- 
tellectual processes,  but  only  moods. 

The  great  poet  of  the  Symbolists,  their  most  admired  model, 
from  whom,  according  to  their  unanimous  testimony,  they  have 
received  the  strongest  inspiration,  is  Paul  Verlaine.  In  this  man 
we  find,  in  astonishing  completeness,  all  the  physical  and  mental 
marks  of  degeneration,  and  no  author  known  to  me  answers  so 
exactly,  trait  for  trait,  to  the  descriptions  of  the  degenerate  given 
by  the  clinicists — his  personal  appearance,  the  history  of  his  life, 
his  intellect,  his  world  of  ideas  and  modes  of  expression.  M.  Jules 
Huret*  gives  the  following  account  of  Verlaine's  physical  ap- 
pearance :  '  His  face,  like  that  of  a  wicked  angel  grown  old, 
with  a  thin,  untrimmed  beard,  and  abrupt  (?)  nose  ;  his  bushy, 
bristling  eyebrows,  resembling  bearded  wheat,  hiding  deep-set 
green  eyes  ;  his  wholly  bald  and  huge  long  skull,  misshapen  by 
enigmatic  bumps — all  these  give  to  his  physiognomy  a  contra- 
dictory appearance  of  stubborn  asceticism  and  cyclopean  appe- 
tites,' As  appears  in  these  ludicrously  laboured  and,  in  part, 
entirely  senseless  expressions,  even  the  most  unscientific  observer 
has  been  struck  with  what  Huret  calls  his  *  enigmatic  bumps,' 
If  we  look  at  the  portrait  of  the  poet,  by  Eugene  Carriere,  of 
which  a  photograph  serves  as  frontispiece  in  the  Select  Poems  of 
Verlaine,t  and  still  more  at  that  by  M.  Aman-Jean,  exhibited 
in  the  Champs  de  Mars  Salon  in  1892,  we  instantly  remark  the 
great  asymmetry  of  the  head,  which  Lombroso:}:  has  pointed  out 

*  Huret,  op.  cti.,  p.  61;. 

+  Paul  Verlaine,  Choix  de  Poesies.     Paris,  1891. 

J  Lombroso,  L  Uomo  deiinqiecnte,  p.  184. 


I20  DEGENERATION 

among  degenerates,  and  the  Mongolian  physiognomy  indicated 
by  the  projecting  cheek-bones,  obliquely  placed  eyes,  and  thin 
beard,  which  the  same  investigator*  looks  upon  as  signs  of 
degeneration. 

Verlaine's  life  is  enveloped  in  mystery,  but  it  is  known,  from 
his  own  ^  avowals,  that  he  passed  two  years  in  prison.  In  the 
poem  Ecrit  en  i875f  he  narrates  in  detail,  not  only  without 
the  least  shame,  but  with  gay  unconcern,  nay,  even  with  boast- 
ing, that  he  was  a  true  professional  criminal : 

*  J'ai  nagii^re  habitd  le  meilleur  des  chateaux 
Dans  le  plus  fin  pays  d'eau  viva  et  de  coteaux  : 
Quatre  lours  s'dlevaient  sur  le  front  d'autant  d'ailes, 
Et  j'ai  longtemps,  longtenips  habitd  Tune  d'elles  .  .  . 
Una  chambre  bien  close,  une  table,  une  ch  lise, 
Un  lit  strict  ou  I'on  put  dormir  juste  k  son  aise,  ... 
Tel  fut  men  lot  durant  les  longs  mois  Ik  passes  .  .  • 
.  .  .  J'^tais  heureux  avec  ma  vie, 
Reconnaissant  de  biens  que  nul,  certes,  n'envie.' 

And  in  the  poem  Un  Coiite  he  says  : 

.  .  .  '  ce  grand  pdcheur  eut  des  conduites 
Folles  k  ce  point  d'en  devenir  trop  malddroites, 
Si  bien  que  les  tribunaux  s'en  mirent — et  les  suites  ! 
Et  le  voyez-vous  dans  la  plus  dtroite  des  bcites? 

Cellules  !  prison  humanitaires  !     II  faut  taiie 

Votre  horreur  fadasse  et  ce  progr^s  d'hypocrisie'  .  .  • 

It  is  now  known  that  a  crime  of  a  peculiarly  revolting  character 
led  to  his  punishment ;  and  this  is  not  surprising,  since  the  special 
characteristic  of  his  degeneration  is  a  madly  inordinate  eroticism. 
He  is  perpetually  thinking  of  lewdness,  and  lascivious  images  fill 
his  mind  continually.  I  have  no  wish  to  quote  passages  in  which 
this  unhappy  slave  of  his  morbidly  excited  senses  has  expressed 
the  loathsome  condition  of  his  mind,  but  the  reader  who  wishes 
to  become  acquainted  with  them  may  be  referred  to  the  poems 
Les  Coqiiillages,  Fille,  and  Aubiirn.X  Sexual  license  is  not  his  only 
vice.  He  is  also  a  dipsomaniac,  and  (as  may  be  expected  in  a  de- 
generate subject)  a  paroxysmal  dipsomaniac,  who,  awakened  from 
his  debauch,  is  seized  with  deep  disgust  of  the  alcoholic  poison 
and  of  himself,  and  speaks  of  '  les  breuvages  ex^cres  '  i^La  Bonne 
Chanson),  but  succumbs  to  the  temptation  at  the  next  oppor- 
tunity. 

Moral  insanity,  however,  is  not  present  in  Verlaine.  He  sins 
through  irresistible  impulse.  He  is  an  Impulsivist.  The  differ- 
ence between  these  two  forms  of  degeneration  lies  in  the  fact 
that  the  morally  insane  does  not  look  upon  his  crimes  as  bad,  but 
commits  them  with  the  same  unconcern  as  a  sane  man  would 

*  Lombroso,  op.  cit.,  p.  276.  f  Verlaine,  op.  ciL,  p.  272, 

X  Verlaine,  op.  df.,  pp.  72,  315,  317. 


MYSTICISM  121 

perform  any  ordinary  or  virtuous  act,  and  after  his  misdeed  is 
quite  contented  with  himself;  whereas  the  Impulsivist  retains  a 
full  consciousness  of  the  baseness  of  his  deeds,  hopelessly  fights 
against  his  impulse  until  he  can  no  longer  resist  it,  and  after  the 
performance*  suffers  the  most  terrible  remorse  and  despair.  It  is 
only  an  Impulsivist  who  speaks  in  execration  of  himself  as  a 
reprobate  ('  Un  seul  Pervers,'  in  Sagesse),  or  strikes  the  dejected 
note  which  Verlaine  touches  in  the  first  four  sonnets  of  Sagesse  : 

'  Hommes  durs  !     Vie  atroce  et  laide  d'ici  bas  ! 
Ah  !  que  du  moins,  loin  des  baisers  et  des  combats, 
Quelque  chose  demeure  un  peu  sur  la  montagne, 

'  Quelque  chose  du  coeur  enfantin  et  subtil, 
Bonte,  respect  !  car  qu'est-ce  qui  nous  accompajne, 
Et  vraiment  quand  la  mort  viendra  que  re5te-l-il  ?  .  «  , 

*Ferme  les  yeux,  pauvre  ame,  et  rentre  sur-le-champ  : 
Une  tentation  des  pires.     Fuis  I'infime  .  .  . 
Si  la  vieille  folie  dtait  encore  en  route  ? 

*  Ces  souvenirs,  va-t-il  falloir  les  retuer  ? 
Un  assaut  furieux,  le  supreme,  sans  doute  1 
O  va  prier  contre  I'orage,  va  pi  ier  !  .  .  . 

*  C'est  vers  le  Moyen-Age  dnorme  et  delicat 
Qu'il  faudrait  que  mon  coeur  en  panne  navigui% 

Loin  de  nos  jours  d'esprit  charnel  et  de  chair  triste  ,  ,  , 

*  Et  Ik  que  j'eusse  part  ... 
...  k  la  chose  vitale, 

Et  que  je  fusse  un  saint,  actes  bons,  pensers  droits, 

*  Haute  thdologie  et  solide  morale, 
Guid^  par  la  folie  unique  de  la  Croix 

Sur  tes  ailes  de  pierre,  6  folie  Cath^drale !' 

This  example  serves  to  show  that  there  is  not  wanting  in 
Verlaine  that  religious  fervour  which  usually  accompanies 
morbidly  intensified  eroticism.  This  finds  a  much  more  decided 
expression  in  several  other  poems,  I  should  wish  to  quote  only 
from  two.-f* 

'  O  mon  Dieu,  vous  m'avez  bless^  d'amour, 
Et  la  blessure  est  encore  vibrante, 
O  mon  Dieu,  vous  m'avez  blessdu'amour. 

*  O  mon  Dieu,  votre  crainte  m'a  frappd, 
Et  la  brulure  est  encore  Ik  qui  tonne 
O  mon  Dieu,  votre  crainte  m'a  frappd 

(Observe  the  mode  of  expression  and  the  constant  repetitions.) 

*  O  mon  Dieu,  j'ai  connu  que  tout  est  vil, 
Et  votre  gloire  en  moi  s'est  instal'de, 

O  mon  Dieu,  j'ai  connu  que  tout  est  vil. 

*  Shortly,  but  not  immediately  after,  the  immediate  resu  t  being  a  sense  of 
great  relief  and  satisfaction. 

•f  Verlaine,  op.  cii.,  pp.  175,  178. 


122  DEGENERATION 

*Noyez  mon  ame  aux  flots  de  vctre  vin, 
Fondez  ma  vie  au  pain  de  voire  table, 
Noyez  mon  ame  aux  flots  de  vctre  vin. 

*  Voici  mon  sang  que  je  n'ai  pas  versd, 
Voici  ma  chair  indignde  de  souffrance, 
Voici  mon  sang  que  je  n'ai  pas  versd.' 

Then  follows  the  ecstatic  enumeration  of  all  the  parts  of  his 
Dody,  which  he  offers  up  in  sacrifice  to  God ;  and  the  poem 
closes  thus : 

'  Vous  connaissez  tout  cela,  tout  cela, 
Et  que  je  suis  plus  pauvre  que  personne, 
Vous  connaissez  tout  cela,  tout  cela, 
Mais  ce  que  j'ai,  mon  Dieu,  je  vous  le  donne.' 

He  invokes  the  Virgin  Mary  as  follows : 

*  Je  ne  veux  plus  aimer  que  ma  m^re  Marie. 
Tous  les  autres  amours  sont  de  commandement, 
N^cessaires  qu'ils  sont,  ma  mere  seulement 
Pourra  les  allumer  aux  cceurs  qui  I'ont  che  ie. 

'  C'est  pour  Elle  qu'il  faut  chdrir  mes  ennemis, 
C'est  pour  Elle  que  j'ai  voud  ce  sacrifice, 
Et  la  douceur  de  coeur  et  le  zele  au  service. 
Comme  je  la  priais,  Elle  les  a  permis. 

*  Et  comme  j'etais  faible  et  bien  mechant  encor-', 
Aux  mains  laches,  les  yeux  eblouis  des  chemin>, 
Elle  baissa  mes  yeux  et  me  joignit  les  mains, 
Et  m'enseigna  les  mots  par  lesquels  on  adore.' 

The  accents  here  uttered  are  well  known  to  the  clinics  of 
psychiatry.  We  may  compare  them  to  the  picture  which 
Legrain"^  gives  of  some  of  his  patients.  '  His  speech  continually 
reverts  to  God  and  the  Virgin  Mary,  his  cousin.'  (The  case  in 
question  is  that  of  a  degenerate  subject  who  was  a  tramway  con- 
ductor.) '  Mystical  ideas  complete  the  picture.  He  talks  of  God, 
of  heaven,  crosses  himself,  kneels  down,  and  says  that  he  is  follow- 
ing the  commandments  of  Christ.'  (The  subject  under  observa- 
tion is  a  day  labourer.)  *  The  devil  will  tempt  me,  but  I  see 
God  who  guards  me.  I  have  asked  of  God  that  all  people  might 
be  beautiful,'  etc. 

The  continual  alternation  of  antithetical  moods  in  Verlaine — 
this  uniform  transition  from  bestial  lust  to  an  excess  of  piety, 
and  from  sinning  to  remorse — has  struck  even  observers  who 
do  not  know  the  significance  of  such  a  phenomenon.  '  He  is,' 
writes  M.  Anatole  France,*  '  alternately  devout  and  atheistical, 
orthodox  and  sacrilegious.'  These  he  certainly  is.  But  why  ? 
Simply  because  he  is  a  circulaire.  This  not  very  happy 
expression,  invented  by  French  psychiatry,  denotes  that  form 

*  Legrain,  Du  ddire  chez  les  d^glndres,  pp.  135,  140,  164. 
t  Huret,  op.  cit.^  p.  8. 


MYSTICISM 


I2J 


of  mental  disease  in  which  states  of  excitement  and  depression 
follow  each  other  in  regular  succession.  The  period  of  excite- 
ment coincides  with  the  irresistible  impulses  to  misdeeds  and 
blasphemous  language  ;  that  of  dejection  with  the  paroxysms 
of  contrition  and  piety.  The  circiUaires  belong  to  the  worst 
species  of  the  degenerate.  '  They  are  drunkards,  obscene,  vicious, 
and  thievish.'*  They  are  also  in  particular  incapable  of  any 
lasting,  uniform  occupation,  since  it  is  obvious  that  in  such  a 
condition  of  mental  depression  they  cannot  accomplish  any 
work  which  demands  strength  and  attention.  The  circidaires 
are,  by  the  nature  of  their  affliction,  condemned  to  be  vagabonds 
or  thieves,  unless  they  belong  to  rich  families.  In  normally 
constituted  society  there  is  no  place  for  them.  Verlaine  has 
been  a  vagabond  the  whole  of  his  life.  He  has  loafed  about  all 
the  highways  of  France,  and  roamed  as  well  through  Belgium 
and  England.  Since  his  release  from  prison  he  has  spent  most 
of  his  time  in  Paris,  where,  however,  he  has  no  residence,  but 
resorts  to  the  hospitals  under  the  pretext  of  rheumatism,  which 
for  that  matter  he  may  easily  have  contracted  during  the  nights 
which,  as  a  tramp,  he  has  spent  under  the  open  sky.  The 
administration  winks  at  his  doings,  and  grants  him  food  and 
shelter  gratis,  out  of  regard  for  his  poetical  capacity.  Con- 
formably with  the  constant  tendency  of  the  human  mind  to 
beautify  what  cannot  be  altered,  he  persuades  himself  that  his 
vagrancy,  which  was  forced  upon  him  by  his  organic  vice,  is  a 
glorious  and  enviable  condition ;  he  prizes  it  as  something 
beautiful,  artistic,  and  sublime,  and  looks  upon  vagabonds  with 
especial  tenderness.     Speaking  of  them  he  says  {Grotesques)  : 

*  Leur  jambes  pour  toutes  montures, 
Pour  tous  biens  I'or  de  leurs  regards, 
Par  le  chemin  des  aventures 
lis  vont  haillonneux  et  hagards. 

*Le  sage,  indignd,  les  harangue  ; 
Le  sot  plaint  ces  fous  hasardeux ; 
Les  enfants  leur  tirent  la  langiie 
Et  les  filles  se  moquent  d'eux.' 

We  find  in  every  lunatic  and  imbecile  the  conviction  that  the 
rational  minds  who  discern  and  judge  him  are  'blockheads.' 

' .  .  .  Dans  leurs  prunelles 
Rit  et  pleure — fastidienx — 
L'amour  des  choses  ^ternelles, 
Des  vieux  morts  et  des  anciens  dieux  I 

*Donc,  allez,  vagabonds  sans  treves, 
Errez,  funestes  et  maudits, 
Le  long  des  gouffres  et  des  graves, 
Sous  I'oeil  ferm^  des  paradis  ! 

*  E.  Marandon  de  Montyel,  *  De  la  Criminality  et  de  la  Degdndre^cence,' 
Archives  de  V Anthroj)ologie  criminelle,  Mai,  1892,  p.  287. 


124  DEGENERATION 

'  La  nature  k  rhomme  s'allie 
Pour  chatier  comme  il  le  faut 
L'orgueilleuse  melancolie 
Qui  vous  fait  marcher  le  front  haut.' 

In  another  poem  {Autre)  he  calls  to  his  chosen  mates : 

*  AUons,  freres,  bons  vieux  voleurs, 
Doux  vagabonds 
Filous  en  fleur 
Mas  chers,  mes  bon?, 

'  Fumons  philosophiquement, 
Promenons  nous 
Paisiblenient : 
Rien  faire  est  doux.' 

As  one  vagabond  feels  himself  attracted  by  other  vagabonds, 
so  does  one  deranged  mind  feel  drawn  to  others.  Verlaine  has 
the  greatest  admiration  for  King  Louis  II.  of  Bavaria,  that 
unhappy  madman  in  whom  intelligence  was  extinct  long  before 
death,  in  whom  only  the  most  abominable  impulses  of  foul 
beasts  of  the  most  degraded  kind  had  survived  the  perishing  of 
the  human  functions  of  his  disordered  brain.  He  apostrophizes 
him  thus : 

'  Roi,  le  seul  vrai  Roi  de  ce  si&cle,  salut,  Sire, 
Qui  voulutes  mourir  vengeant  votre  raison 
Des  choses  de  la  politique,  et  du  ddlire 
De  cette  Science  intruse  dans  la  maison, 

•  De  cette  Science  assassin  de  I'Oraison 

Et  du  Chant  et  de  I'Art  et  de  toute  la  Lyre, 
Et  simplement  et  plein  d'orgueil  et  floraison 
Tuates  en  mourant,  salut,  Roi,  bravo,  Sire  I 

*  Vous  fiates  un  poete,  un  soldat,  le  seul  Roi 

De  ce  si^cle  .  .  . 
Et  le  martyr  de  la  Raison  selon  la  Foi.  .  .  .' 

Two  points  are  noticeable  in  Verlaine's  mode  of  expression. 
First,  we  have  the  frequent  recurrence  of  the  same  word,  of  the 
same  turn  of  phrase,  that  chewing  the  cud,  or  rabachage  (repeti- 
tion), which  we  have  learnt  to  know  as  the  marks  of  intellectual 
debility.  In  almost  every  one  of  his  poems  single  lines  and 
hemistiches  are  repeated,  sometimes  unaltered,  and  often  the 
same  word  appears  instead  of  one  which  rhymes.  Were  I  to 
quote  all  the  passages  of  this  kind,  I  should  have  to  transcribe 
nearly  all  his  poems.  I  will  therefore  give  only  a  few  specimens, 
and  those  in  the  original,  so  that  their  peculiarity  will  be  fully 
apparent  to  the  reader.  In  the  Crepiiscule  du  soir  mystique  the 
lines,  '  Le  souvenir  avec  le  crepuscule,'  and  '  Dahlia,  lys,  tulipe 
et  renoncules,'  are  twice  repeated  without  any  internal  necessity. 
In  the  poem  Promenade  senthnentale  the  adjective  blhne  (wan) 
pursues  the  poet  in  the  manner  of  an  obsession  or  'onomatomania,' 


•  MYSTICISM  125 

and  he  applies  it  to  water-lilies  and  waves  ('  wan  waves  ').     The 
Nuit  du  Walpurgis  classique  begins  thus  : 

'  Un  rythmique  sabbat,  rythmique,  extremement 
Rythmique.'  .  .  . 

In  the  Serenade  \.\\Q  first  two  lines  are  repeated  verbatim  as  the 
fourth  and  eighth.     Similarly  in  Ariettes  oublices,  Vlll. : 

*  Dans  rinterminable 
Eanui  de  la  plaine, 
La  neige  incertaine 
Luit  comme  du  sable. 

'  Le  ciel  est  de  cuivre, 
Sans  lueur  aucune. 
On  croirait  voir  vivre 
Et  mourir  la  lune. 

*  Comme  des  nuees 
Flottent  gris  les  chenes 
Des  forets  prochaines 
Parmi  les  bu^es. 

*  Le  ciel  est  de  cuivre, 
Sans  lueur  aucune. 
On  croirait  voir  vivre 
Et  mourir  la  lune. 

*  Corneille  poussive, 

Et  vous,  les  loups  maigres, 
Par  ces  bises  aigres 
Quoi  done  vous  arrive? 

'Dans  rinterminable 
Ennui  de  \i  plaine, 
La  neige  incertaine 
Luit  comme  du  sable.' 

The  CJievaux  de  bois  begins  thus  : 

'  Tournez,  tournez,  bons  chevaux  de  bois, 
Tournez  cent  tours,  tournez  miile  tours, 
Tournez  souvent  et  tournez  toujours, 
Tournez,  tournez  au  son  des  hautbois.' 

In  a  truly  charming  piece  in  Sagesse  he  says  : 

*  Le  ciel  est,  par-dessus  le  toit, 
Si  bleu,  si  calme  ! 
Un  arbre,  par  dessus  le  toit 
Berce  sa  palme. 

'  La  cloche,  dans  le  ciel  qu'on  voit, 
Doucement  tinte. 
Un  oiseau,  sur  I'arbre  qu'on  voit, 
Chante  sa  plainte.' 

In  the  passage  in  Amour^  '  Les  fleurs  des  champs,  les  fleurs 
innombrables  des  champs  ...  les  fleurs  des  gens,'  'champs' 
and  *  gens '  sound  somewhat  alike.     Here  the  imbecile  repetition 


126  DEGENERATION 

of  similar  sounds  suggests  a  senseless  pun  to  the  poet,  and  as 
for  this  stanza  in  Pierrot  gamin  : 

*  Ce  n'est  pas  Pierrot  en  herbe 
Non  plus  que  Pierrot  en  gerbe, 
C'est  Pierrot,  Pierrot,  Pierrot. 
Pierrot  gamin,  Pierrot  gosse, 
Le  cerneau  hors  de  la  cosse, 
Cest  Pierrot,  Pierrot,  Pierrot  !' 

it  is  the  language  of  nurses  to  babies,  who  do  not  care  to  make 
sense,  but  only  to  twitter  to  the  child  in  tones  which  give  him 
pleasure.  The  closing  lines  of  the  poem  Mains  point  to  a 
complete  ideational  standstill,  to  mechanical  mumbling  : 

*  Ah  !  si  ce  sont  des  mains  de  reve, 
Tant  mieux,  ou  tant  pis,  ou  tant  mieux.'* 

The  second  peculiarity  of  Verlaine's  style  is  the  other  mark 
of  mental  debility,  viz.,  the  combination  of  completely  dis- 
connected nouns  and  adjectives,  which  suggest  each  other,  either 
through  a  senseless  meandering  by  way  of  associated  ideas,  or 
through  a  similarity  of  sound.  We  have  already  found  some 
examples  of  this  in  the  extracts  cited  above.  In  these  we  find 
the  '  enormous  and  tender  Middle  Ages'  and  the  '  brand  which 
thunders.'  Verlaine  writes  also  of '  feet  which  glide  with  a  pure 
and  wide  movement,'  of  *  a  narrow  and  vast  affection,'  of  'a  slow 
landscape,'!  of  'a  slack  liqueur'  ('jus  flasque '),  'a  gilded  per- 
fume,'a  'condensed'  or  'terse  contour'  ('galbe  succinct'),  etc. 
The  Symbolists  admire  this  form  of  imbecility,  as  '  the  research 
for  rare  and  precious  epithets '  (la  recherche  de  I'epithete  rare  et 
precieuse). 

Verlaine  has  a  clear  consciousness  of  the  vagueness  of  his 
thoughts,  and  in  a  very  remarkable  poem  from  the  psychological 
point  of  \\Q.ys! ,  Art poetiqiie ,  in  which  he  attempts  to  give  a  theory 
of  his  lyric  creation,  he  raises  nebulosity  to  the  dignity  of  a 
fundamental  method  : 

*  De  la  musique  avant  toute  chose 
Et  pour  cela  prdfere  I'lnipair 

Plus  vague  et  plus  soluble  dans  I'air, 
Sans  rien  en  lui  qui  pfese  ou  qui  pose.' 

The  two  verbs  *  pese '  and  'pose'  are  juxtaposed  merely  o;i 
account  of  their  similarity  of  sound. 

*  II  faut  aussi  que  tu  n'ailles  point 
Choisir  les  mots  sans  quelque  mdprise  ; 
Rien  de  plus  cher  que  la  chanson  grise 
Ou  rindecis  au  Precis  se  joint. 

*  Ah  !  if  these  are  dream  hands, 

So  much  the  better,  or  so  much  the  worse,  or  so  much  the  better, 
t  Virgil's  '  lentus,'  when  applied  to  aspects  of  nature,  conveys  a  very 
different  meaning. 


MYSTICISM  127 

*  C'est  des  beaux  yeux  derri^re  des  voiles, 
C'est  le  grand  jour  tremblant  de  midi, 
C'est  par  un  ciel  d'automne  atti^di, 

Le  bleu  fouillis  des  claires  dtoiles  ! 

*  Car  nous  voulons  la  Nuance  encor, 
Pas  la  Couleur,  rien  que  la  nuance  1 
Oh  !  la  nuance  seule  fiance 

Le  reve  au  reve  et  la  flute  au  cor  1' 

(This  stanza  is  completely  delirious  ;  it  places  *  nuance '  and 
'colour'  in  opposition,  as  though  the  latter  were  not  contained 
in  the  former.  The  idea  of  which  the  weak  brain  of  Verlaine 
had  an  inkling,  but  could  not  bring  to  a  complete  conception, 
is  probably  that  he  prefers  sub  iued  and  mixed  tints,  which  lie 
on  the  margin  of  several  colours,  to  the  full  intense  colour 
itself.) 

*  Fuis  du  plus  loin  la  Pointe  assassine, 
L'esprit  cruel  et  le  Rire  impur, 

Qui  font  pleurer  les  )eux  de  I'Azur, 
Et  tout  cet  ail  de  basse  cuisine  !' 

It  cannot  be  denied  that  this  poetical  method  in  the  hands 
of  Verlaine  often  yields  extraordinarily  beautiful  results.  There 
are  few  poems  in  French  literature  which  can  rival  the  Chanson 
dAutojnne : 

'  Les  sanglots  longs 
Des  violons 

De  I'automne 
Blessent  mon  coeur 
D'une  langueur 

Monotone. 

*  Tout  suffocant 
Et  bleme,  quand 

Sonne  I'heure, 

*  Je  me  souviens 
Des  jours  anciens, 

Et  je  pleura. 

*  Et  je  m'en  vais 
Au  vent  mauvais 

Qui  m'emporte 
Deqk,  deik, 
Pareil  k  la 

Feuille  morte.' 

Even  if  literally  translated,  there  remains  something  of  the 
melancholy  magic  of  the  lines,  which  in  French  are  richly 
rhythmical  and  full  of  music.  Avant  que  tu  ne  fen  ailles  (p.  99) 
and  II pleure  dans  mon  coeur  (p.  116)  may  also  be  called  pearls 
among  French  lyrics. 

This  is  because  the  methods  of  a  highly  emotional,  but 
intellectually  incapable,  dreamer  suffice  for  poetry  which  deals 
exclusively  with  moods,  but  this  is  the  inexorable  limit  of  his 
power.     Let  the  true  meaning  of  mood  be  always  present  with 


128  DEGENERATION 

us.  The  word  denotes  a  state  of  mind,  in  which,  through  organic 
excitations  which  it  cannot  directly  perceive,  consciousness  is 
filled  with  presentations  of  a  uniform  nature,  which  it  elaborates 
with  greater  or  less  clearness,  and  one  and  all  of  which  relate  to 
those  organic  excitations  inaccessible  to  consciousness.  The  mere 
succession  of  words,  giving  a  name  to  these  presentations,  the  roots 
of  which  are  in  the  unknown,  expresses  the  mood,  and  is  able  to 
awaken  it  in  another.  It  has  no  need  of  a  fundamental  thought, 
or  of  a  progressive  exposition  to  unfold  it.  Verlaine  often  attains 
to  astonishing  effects  in  such  poetry  of  moods.  Where,  how- 
ever, distinct  vision,  or  a  feeling  the  motive  of  which  is  clear  to 
consciousness,  or  a  process  well  delimitated  in  time  and  space, 
is  to  be  poetically  rendered,  the  poetic  art  of  the  emotional 
imbecile  fails  utterly.  In  a  healthy  and  sane  poet  even  the 
mood  pure  and  simple  is  united  to  clear  presentations,  and  is  not 
a  mere  undulation  of  fragrance  and  rose-tinted  mist.  Poems  like 
Goethe's  Ueber  alien  Gipfeln  ist  Ruh,  Der  Fischer^  or  Freudvoll  und 
leidvoll,  can  never  be  created  by  the  emotionally  degenerate  ;  but, 
on  the  other  hand,  the  most  marvellous  of  Goethe's  poems  are 
not  so  utterly  incorporeal,  not  such  mere  sighs,  as  three  or  four 
of  the  best  of  a  Verlaine. 

We  have  now  the  portrait  of  this  most  famous  leader  of  the 
Symbolists  clearly  before  us.  We  see  a  repulsive  degenerate 
subject  with  asymmetric  skull  and  Mongolian  face,  an  impulsive 
vagabond  and  dipsomaniac,  who,  under  the  most  disgraceful  cir- 
cumstances, was  placed  in  gaol ;  an  emotional  dreamer  of  feeble 
intellect,  who  painfully  fights  against  his  bad  impulses,  and  in 
his  misery  often  utters  touching  notes  of  complaint ;  a  mystic 
whose  qualmish  consciousness  is  flooded  with  ideas  of  God  and 
saints,  and  a  dotard  who  manifests  the  absence  of  any  definite 
thought  in  his  mind  by  incoherent  speech,  meaningless  expres- 
sions and  motley  images.  In  lunatic  asylums  there  are  many 
patients  whose  disease  is  less  deep-seated  and  incurable  than 
is  that  of  this  irresponsible  circulaire  at  large,  whom  only 
ignorant  judges  could  have  condemned  for  his  epileptoid  crimes. 

A  second  leader  among  the  Symbolists,  whose  prestige  is  in 
no  quarter  disputed,  is  M.  Stephane  Mallarmd  He  is  the  most 
curious  phenomenon  in  the  intellectual  life  of  contemporary 
France.  Although  long  past  fifty  years  of  age,  he  has  written 
hardly  anything,  and  the  little  that  is  known  of  him  is,  in  the 
opinion  of  his  most  unreserved  admirers,  of  no  account ;  and 
yet  he  is  esteemed  as  a  very  great  poet,  and  the  utter  infertility 
of  his  pen,  the  entire  absence  of  any  single  work  which  he  can 
produce  as  evidence  of  his  poetical  capacity,  is  prized  as  his 
greatest  merit,  and  as  a  most  striking  proof  of  his  intellectual 
importance.  This  statement  must  appear  so  fabulous  to  any 
reader  not  deranged  in  mind,  that  he  may  rightly  demand  proofs 


MYSTICISM  129 

of  these  statements.  M.  Charles  Morice*  says  of  Mallarme  : 
*  I  am  not  obliged  to  unveil  the  secrets  of  the  works  of  a  poet 
who,  as  he  has  himself  remarked,  is  excluded  from  all  partici- 
pation in  any  official  exposition  of  the  beautiful.  The  fact  itself 
that  these  works  are  still  unknown  .  .  .  would  seem  to  forbid 
our  associating  the  name  of  M.  Mallarme  with  those  of  men  who 
have  given  us  books.  I  let  vulgar  criticism  buzz  without  reply- 
ing to  it,  and  state  that  M.  Mallarm^,  without  having  given  us 
books  ...  is  famous — a  fame  which,  of  course,  has  not  been 
won  without  arousing  the  laughter  of  stupidity  in  both  petty 
and  important  newspapers,  but  which  does  not  offer  public  and 
private  .  .  .  ineptitude  that  opportunity  for  showing  its  base- 
ness which  is  provoked  by  the  advent  of  a  new  wonder.  .  .  . 
The  people,  in  spite  of  their  abhorrence  of  the  beautiful,  and 
especially  of  novelty  in  the  beautiful,  have  gradually,  and  in 
spite  of  themselves,  come  to  comprehend  the  prestige  of  a  legiti- 
mate authority.  They  themselves,  even  they,  feel  ashamed  of 
their  foolish  laughter;  and  before  this  man,  whom  that  laughter 
could  not  tear  from  the  serenity  of  his  meditative  silence, 
laughter  became  dumb,  and  itself  suffered  the  divine  contagion 
of  silence.  Even  for  the  million  this  man,  who  published  no 
books,  and  whom,  nevertheless,  all  designated  "a  poet,"  became, 
as  it  were,  the  very  symbol  of  a  poet,  seeking,  where  possible, 
to  draw  near  to  the  absolute.  .  .  .  By  his  silence  he  has  signified 
that  he  .  .  .  cannot  yet  realize  the  unprecedented  work  of  art 
which  he  wishes  to  create.  Should  cruel  life  refuse  to  support 
him  in  his  effort,  our  respect — nay,  more,  our  veneration — can 
alone  give  an  answer  worthy  of  a  reticence  thus  conditioned.' 

The  graphomaniac  Morice  (of  whose  crazy  and  distorted  style 
of  expression  this  literally  translated  example  gives  a  very  good 
idea)  assumes  that  perhaps  Mallarmd  wilt  yet  create  his  '  unpre- 
cedented work.'  Mallarme  himself,  however,  denies  us  the  right 
to  any  such  hope.  'The  delicious  Mallarme,'  Paul  Hervieu 
relates,!  'told  me  one  day  ...  he  could  not  understand  that 
anyone  should  let  himself  appear  in  print.  Such  a  proceeding 
gave  him  the  impression  of  an  indecency,  an  aberration,  re- 
sembling that  form  of  mental  disease  called  "  exhibitionism." 
Moreover,  no  one  has  been  so  discreet  with  his  soul  as  this  in- 
comparable thinker.'! 

So,  then,  this  'incomparable  thinker'  shows  '  a  complete  dis- 
cretion as  regards  his  soul.'  At  one  time  he  bases  his  silence 
on  a  sort  of  shamed  timidity  at  publicity ;  at  another,  on  the 

*  Charles  Morice,  La  Littirature  de  toJit-h-Vheure^  p.  238. 

t  Huret,  op,  cit.,  p.  33. 

X  Since  these  words  were  written,  M.  Mallarm^  has  decided  to  publish 
his  poems  in  one  volume.  This,  far  from  invalidating  what  has  been  said, 
is  its  best  justification. 

9 


I30  DEGENERATION 

fact  that  he  '  cannot  yet  realize  the  unprecedented  work  of  art 
which  he  wishes  to  create,'  two  reasons  for  that  matter  recipro- 
cally precluding  each  other.  He  is  approaching  the  evening  of 
his  life,  and  beyond  a  few  brochures,  such  as  Les  Dieux  de  la 
Grece  and  U aprh-midi  d'un  Faiine,  together  with  some  verses 
and  literary  and  theatrical  criticisms,  scattered  in  periodicals, 
the  lot  barely  sufificing  for  a  volume,  he  has  published  nothing 
but  some  translations  from  the  English  and  a  few  school-books 
(M.  Mallarme  is  a  teacher  of  English  in  a  Parisian  lycee),  and 
yet  there  are  some  who  admire  him  as  a  great  poet,  as  the  one 
exclusive  poet,  and  they  overwhelm  the  '  blockheads '  and  the 
'  fools '  who  laugh  at  him  with  all  the  expressions  of  scorn  that 
the  force  of  imagination  in  a  diseased  mind  can  display.  Is  not 
this  one  of  the  wonders  of  our  day  ?  Lessing  makes  Conti,  in 
Emilia  Galotii,  say  that  '  Raphael  would  have  been  the  greatest 
genius  in  painting,  even  if  he  had  unfortunately  been  born  with- 
out hands.'  In  M.  Mallarm^  we  have  a  man  who  is  revered  as 
a  great  poet,  although  '  he  has  unfortunately  been  born  without 
hands,'  although  he  produces  nothing,  although  he  does  not 
pursue  the  art  he  professes.  During  the  period  when  in  London 
a  great  number  of  bubble-company  swindles  were  being  pro- 
moted, when  all  the  world  went  mad  for  the  possession  of  the 
least  scrap  of  Stock  Exchange  paper,  it  happened  that  a  few 
sharp  individuals  advertised  in  the  newspapers,  inviting  people  to 
subscribe  for  shares  in  a  company  of  which  the  object  was  kept 
a  secret.  There  really  were  men  who  brought  their  money  to 
these  lively  promoters,  and  the  historian  of  the  City  crisis  regards 
this  fact  as  inconceivable.  Inconceivable  as  it  is,  Paris  sees  it 
repeated.  Some  persons  demand  unbounded  admiration  for  a 
poet  whose  works  are  his  own  secret,  and  will  probably  remain 
such,  and  others  trustingly  and  humbly  bring  their  admiration 
as  required.  The  sorcerers  of  the  Senegal  negroes  offer  their 
congregation  baskets  and  calabashes  for  veneration,  in  which 
they  assert  that  a  mighty  fetich  is  enclosed.  As  a  matter  of 
fact  they  contain  nothing  ;  but  the  negroes  regard  the  empty 
vessels  with  holy  dread,  and  show  them  and  their  possessors 
divine  honours.  Exactly  thus  is  empty  Mallarme  the  fetich 
of  the  Symbolists,  who,  it  must  be  admitted,  are  intellectually 
far  below  the  Senegal  negroes. 

This  position  of  a  calabash  worshipped  on  bended  knees  he 
has  attained  by  oral  discourse.  Every  week  he  gathers  round 
him  embryonic  poets  and  authors,  and  develops  his  art  theories 
before  them.  He  speaks  just  as  Morice  and  Kahn  write.  He 
strings  together  obscure  and  wondrous  words,  at  which  his 
disciples  become  as  stupid  *  as  if  a  mill-wheel  were  going  round 
in  their  heads,'  so  that  they  leave  him  as  if  intoxicated,  and 
with  the  impression  that  incomprehensible,  superhuman  dis- 
closures have  been  made  to  them.     If  there  is  anything  com- 


MYSTICISM  131 

prehenslble  in  the  incoherent  flow  of  Mallarm^'s  words,  it  is 
perhaps  his  admiration  for  the  pre-Raphaelites.  It  was  he  who 
drew  the  attention  of  the  Symbolists  to  this  school,  and  enjoined 
imitation  of  it.  It  is  through  Mallarme  that  the  French 
mystics  received  their  English  medisevalism  and  neo-Catholicism. 
Finally,  it  may  be  mentioned  that  among  the  physical  features 
of  Mallarme  are  'long  pointed  faun-like  ears.'*  After  Darwin, 
who  was  the  first  to  point  out  the  apish  character  of  this 
peculiarity,  Hartmann,t  Frigerio,j  and  Lombroso,§  have  firmly 
established  the  connection  between  immoderately  long  and 
pointed  external  ears  and  atavism  and  degeneration ;  and  they 
have  shown  that  this  peculiarity  is  of  especially  frequent  occur- 
rence among  criminals  and  lunatics. 

The  third  among  the  leading  spirits  of  the  Symbolists  is  Jean 
Mor^as,  a  Franco-Greek  poet,  who  at  the  completion  of  his 
thirty-sixth  year  (his  friends  assert,  it  may  be  in  friendly  malice, 
that  he  makes  himself  out  to  be  very  much  younger  than  he  is) 
has  produced  in  toto  three  attenuated  collections  of  verses,  of 
hardly  one  hundred  to  one  hundred  and  twenty  pages,  bearing 
the  titles,  Les  Syrtes,  Les  Cantilenes,  and  Le  PUerin  passionnL 
The  importance  of  a  literary  performance  does  not,  of  course, 
depend  upon  its  amplitude,  if  it  is  otherwise  unusually  signifi- 
cant. When,  however,  a  man  cackles  during  interminable  caf6 
seances  of  the  renewal  of  poetry  and  the  unfolding  of  a  new  art 
of  the  future,  and  finally  produces  three  little  brochures  of 
childish  verses  as  the  result  of  his  world-stirring  effort,  then  the 
material  insignificance  of  the  performance  also  becomes  a  subject 
for  ridicule. 

Moreas  is  one  of  the  inventors  of  the  word  '  Symbolism.' 
For  some  few  years  he  was  the  high -priest  of  this  secret 
doctrine,  and  administered  the  duties  of  his  service  with 
requisite  seriousnes'5.  One  day  he  suddenly  abjured  his  self- 
founded  faith,  and  declared  that  *  Symbolism  '  had  always 
been  meant  only  as  a  joke,  to  lead  fools  by  the  nose  withal; 
and  that  the  true  salvation  of  poetry  was  in  Romanism 
(romanis7ne).  Under  this  new  word  he  affirms  a  return  to  the 
language,  versification  and  mode  of  feeling  of  the  French  poets 
at  the  close  of  the  Middle  Ages,  and  of  the  Renaissance  period  ; 
but  it  were  well  to  adopt  his  declarations  with  caution,  since  in 
two  or  three  years  he  may  be  proclaiming  his  '  romanisme  '  as 
much  a  tap-room  joke  as  his  'symbolism.'  The  appearance  of 
the  Pilerin  passionni  in  1891  was  celebrated  by  the  S3^mbolists 
as  an  event  which  was  to  be  the  beginning  of  a  new  era  in 

*  Huret,  op.  cit.,  p.  55. 

f  Hartmann,  Der  Gorilla.     Leipzig,  1881,  p.  34. 

j  Dr.  L.  Frigerio,  L'Oreille  externe :  Atiide  d'' Anthropologie  criminelli 
Lyon,  i88g,  pp.  32  and  40. 

§  Lombroso,  L'Uomo  delinquenie,  p.  255. 


132  DEGENERATION 

poetry.  They  arranged  a  banquet  in  honour  of  Moreas,  and  in 
the  after-dinner  speeches  he  was  worshipped  as  the  dehverer  from 
the  shackles  of  ancient  forms  and  notions,  and  as  the  saviour 
who  was  bringing  in  the  kingdom  of  God  of  true  poetry.  And 
the  same  poets  who  sat  at  the  table  with  Moreas,  and  delivered 
to  him  rapturous  addresses  or  joined  in  the  applause,  a  few  weeks 
after  this  event  overwhelmed  him  with  contumely  and  contempt. 
'  Moreas  a  Symbolist !'  cried  Charles  Vignier.*  '  Is  he  one 
through  his  ideas  ?  He  laughs  at  them  himself !  His  thoughts  ! 
They  don't  weigh  much,  these  thoughts  of  Jean  Moreas  1' 
'  Moreas  ?'  asks  Adrien  Remacle,t  '  we  have  all  been  laughing  at 
him.  It  is  that  which  has  made  him  famous.'  Ren^  Ghil  calls 
his  P^lerin  passionn^  *  doggereX  written  by  a  pedant,'  and  Gustav 
KahnJ  passes  sentence  on  him  thus :  'Moreas  has  no  talent.  .  .  . 
He  has  never  done  anything  worth  mentioning.  He  has  his  own 
particular  jargon.'  These  expressions  disclose  to  us  the  com- 
plete hollowness  and  falseness  of  the  Symbolistic  movement, 
which  outside  France  is  obstinately  proclaimed  as  a  serious 
matter  by  imbeciles  and  speculators,  although  its  French  in- 
ventors make  themselves  hoarse  in  trying  to  convince  the  world 
that  they  merely  wanted  to  banter  the  Philistine  with  a  tap- 
room jest  and  advertise  themselves. 

After  the  verdict  of  his  brethren  in  the  Symbolist  Parnassus, 
I  may  really  spare  myself  the  trouble  of  dwelling  longer  on 
Moreas  ;  I  will,  however,  cite  a  few  examples  from  his  Pelerin 
passionne,  in  order  that  the  reader  may  form  an  idea  of  the 
softness  of  brain  which  displays  itself  in  these  verses. 

The  poem  Agnes\  begins  thus  : 

*  II  y  avail  des  arcs  ou  passaient  des  escortes 
Avec  des  bannieres  de  deuil  et  du  fer 
Lacd  (.?)  des  potentats  de  toutes  sortes 

— II  y  avait — dans  la  cite  au  bord  de  la  men 
Les  places  ^taient  noires,  et  bien  pav^es,  et  les  portes, 
Du  cold  de  I'est  et  de  I'ouest,  hautes  ;  et  comme  en  hiver 
La  foret,  depdrissaient  les  salles  de  palais,  et  les  porches, 
Et  les  colonnades  de  belvdder. 
C'dtait  (tu  dois  bien  t'en  souvenir)  c'dtait  aux  plus  beaux  jours  de  ton 
adolescence. 

*  Dans  la  citd  au  bord  de  la  mer,  la  cape  et  la  dague  lourdes 

De  pierres  jaunes,  et  sur  ton  chapeau  des  plumes  de  perroquets, 
Tu  t'en  venais,  devisant  telles  bourdes, 
Tu  t'en  venais  entre  tes  deux  laquais 
Si  bouffis  et  tant  sots — en  verity,  des  happelourdes  ! — 
Dans  la  cite  au  bord  de  la  mer  tu  t'en  venais  et  tu  vaguais 
Parmi  de  grands  vieillards  qui  travaillaient  aux  felouques, 
Le  long  des  moles  et  des  quais. 
CMtait  (tu  dois  bien  t'en  souvenir)  c'dtait  aux  plus  beaux  jours  de  ton 
adolescence. 

*  Huret,  op.  cii.,  p.  102.  f  Ibid.,  p.  106.  %  Ibid.,  p.  401. 

§  Jean  Mordas,  Le  Pderin  passionne.     Paris,  1891,  p.  3. 


MYSTICISM  133 

And  thus  the  twaddle  goes  on  through  eight  more  stanzas,  and 
in  every  line  we  find  the  characteristics  of  the  language  used  by 
imbeciles  and  made  notorious  by  Sollier  {Psychologie  de  l' Idiot  et 
de  V Imbecile)^  the  'ruminating/  as  it  were,  of  the  same  ex- 
pressions, the  dreamy  incoherence  of  the  language,  and  the 
insertion  of  words  which  have  no  connection  with  the  subject 
Two  Chansons^  run  thus  : 

'  Les  courlis  dans  les  roseaux  ! 
(Faut-il  que  je  vous  en  parle. 
Des  courlis  dans  les  roseaux  ?) 
O  vous  joli'  F^e  des  eaux. 

*  Le  porcher  et  les  pourceaux  ! 
(Faut-il  que  je  vous  en  parle, 
Du  porcher  et  des  pourceaux?) 
O  vous  joh'  Fee  des  eaux. 

*  Mon  coeur  pris  en  vos  roseaux  ! 
(Faut-il  que  je  vous  en  parle, 
De  mon  coeur  en  vos  roseaux  ?) 
O  vous  joli'  F^e  des  eaux. 

'  On  a  marche  sur  les  fleurs  au  bord  de  la  route, 
Et  le  vent  d'automne  les  secoue  si  fort,  en  outre. 

*  La  malle-poste  a  renvers^  la  vieille  croix  au  bord  de  la  route  } 
Elle  ^tait  vraiment  si  pourrie,  en  outre. 

*  L'idiot  (tu  sais)  est  mort  au  bord  de  la  route, 
Et  personne  ne  le  pleurera,  en  outre.' 

The  stupid  artifice  with  which  Moreas  here  seeks  to  produce  a 
feeling  of  wretchedness  by  conjuring  up  the  three  associated 
figures  of  crushed  flowers,  dishevelled  by  the  wind,  an  over- 
turned and  mouldering  cross,  and  a  dead,  unmourned  idiot, 
makes  this  poem  a  model  of  the  would-be  profound  production 
of  a  mad-house  ! 

When  Moreas  is  not  soft  of  brain,  he  develops  a  rhetorical 
turgidity  which  reminds  us  of  Hofmann  von  Hofmannswaldau 
in  his  worst  efforts.  Only  one  examplef  of  this  kind,  and  we 
have  done  with  him  : 

*  J'ai  tellement  soif,  6  mon  amour,  de  ta  bouche, 
Que  j'y  boirais  en  baisers  le  cours  detourn^ 
Du  Strymon,  I'Araxe  et  le  Tanais  farouche  ; 
Et  les  cent  m^andres  qui  arrosent  Pitan^, 
Et  I'Hermus  qui  prend  sa  source  ou  le  soleil  se  couche, 
Et  toutes  les  claires  fontaines  dont  abonde  Gaza, 
Sans  que  ma  soif  s'en  apaisat.' 

Behind  the  leaders  Verlaine,  Mallarme,  and  Moreas  a  troop 
of  minor  Symbolists  throng,  each,  it  is  true,  in  his  own  eyes  the 
one  great  poet  of  the  band,  but  whose  illusions  of  greatness  do 
not  entitle  them  to  any  special  observation.     Sufficient  justice 

*  Mordas,  op.  cit,  pp.  21  and  2.  t  ^^''^-i  P-  43- 


134  DEGENERATION 

is  dealt  them  if  the  spirit  they  are  made  of  be  characterized  by 
quoting  a  few  lines  of  their  poetry.  Jules  Laforgue,  '  unique 
not  only  in  his  generation,  but  in  all  the  republic  of  literature,'* 
cries  :  '  Oh,  how  daily  \_quotidienne\  is  life  !'  and  in  his  poem 
Pan  et  la  Syrinx  we  come  upon  lines  like  the  following  : 

*  O  Syrinx  !  voyez  et  comprenez  la  Terre  et  la  merveille  de  cette  matinde  et 
la  circulation  de  la  vie. 
Oh,  vous  Ik  !  et  moi,  ici !     Oh  vous  !     Oh,  moi !     Tout  est  dans  Tout  i'f 

Gustav  Kahn,  one  of  the  aestheticists  and  philosophers  of  Sym- 
bolism, says  in  his  Nuit  siir  la  Lande  :  '  Peace  descends  from 
thy  lovely  eyes  like  a  great  evening,  and  the  borders  of  slow 
tents  descend,  studded  with  precious  stones,  woven  of  far-off 
beams  and  unknown  moons.' 

In  German,  at  least,  '  borders  of  slow  tents  which  descend '  is 
completely  unintelligible  nonsense.  In  French  they  are  also 
unintelligible ;  but  in  the  original  their  meaning  becomes 
apparent.  '  Et  des  pans  de  tentes  lentes  descendent,'  the  line 
runs,  and  betrays  itself  as  pure  echolalia,  as  a  succession  of 
similar  sounds,  as  it  were,  echoing  each  other. 

Charles  Vignier,  '  the  beloved  disciple  of  Verlaine,'  says  to  his 
mistress : 

'  Lk-bas  c'est  trop  loin, 
Pauvre  libellule, 
Reste  dans  ton  coin 
Et  prends  des  pilules  .  .  . 

*  Sois  Edmond  About 
Et  d'humeur  coulante, 
Sois  un  marabout 
Du  Jardin  des  Plantes.' 

Another  of  his  poems,  Une  Coupe  de  T/mle,  runs  thus: 

*Dans  une  coupe  de  Thuld 
Ou  vient  palir  I'attrait  de  I'heure, 
Dort  le  senile  et  dolent  leurre 
De  I'ultime  reve  aduld. 

*  Mais  des  cheveux  d'argent  fild 
Font  un  voile  k  celle  qui  pleure, 
Dans  une  coupe  de  Thule 

Ou  s'est  dteint  I'attrait  de  I'heure- 

•  Et  I'on  ne  sait  quel  jubild 
C^l^bre  une  harpe  mineure 
Que  le  hautain  fantome  effleure 
D'un  lucide  doigt  fusel6  !  .  .  . 
Dans  une  coupe  de  Thuld  I' 

*  Mordas,  op.  at.,  p.  311. 

•f  •  O  Syrinx  1  do  you  see  and  understand  the  Earth,  and  the  wonder  of 
this  morning,  and  the  circulation  of  life  ! 
O  thou,  there  !  and  I,  here  !     O  thou  !     O  me  !    All  is  in  All  f 


MYSTICISM  135 

These  poems  remind  us  so  forcibly  of  those  doggerel  rhymes 
at  which  in  Germany  jovial  students  are  often  wont  to  try  their 
skill,  and  which  are  known  as  '  flowery  [lit.  blooming]  nonsense,' 
that,  in  spite  of  the  solemn  assurance  of  French  critics,  I  am 
convinced  that  they  were  intended  as  a  joke.  If  I  am  right  in 
my  supposition,  they  are  really  evidences,  not  of  the  mental 
status  of  Vignier,  but  of  his  readers,  admirers,  and  critics. 

Louis  Dumur  addresses  the  Neva  in  the  following  manner  : 

•  Puissante,  magnifique,  illustre,  grave,  noble  reine  ! 
O  Tsaristsa  [j/<r/]  de  glace  et  de  fastes  Souveraine  ! 
Matrone  hi^ratique  et  solennelle  et  v^ndr^e  !  .  .  . 
Toi  qui  me  forces  k  r^ver,  toi  qui  me  deconcertes, 
Et  toi  surtout  que  j'aime,  Email,  Beaut^,  Po^me,  Femme. 
Ndva!  j'evoque  ton  spectacle  et  I'hymne  de  ton  ame  !' 

And  Rene  Ghil,  one  of  the  best-known  Symbolists  (he  is 
chief  of  a  school  entitled  'evolutive-instrumentiste'),  draws  from 
his  lyre  these  tones,  which  I  also  quote  in  French  ;  in  the  first 
place  because  they  would  lose  their  ring  in  a  translation,  and, 
secondly,  because  if  I  were  to  translate  them  literally,  it  is 
hopeless  to  suppose  that  the  reader  would  think  I  was  serious  i 

*  Ouis  !  ouis  aux  nues  haut  et  nues  ou 
Tirent-ils  d'aile  immense  qui  vire  .  .  , 

et  quand  vide 
et  vers  les  grands  p^tales  dans  I'air  plus  aride^ 

•(Et  en  le  lourd  venir  grand!  lent  stridule,  et 
Titille  qui  n'alentisse  d'air  qui  dure,  et ! 
Grandie,  erratile  et  multiple  d'eveils,  stride 
Mixte,  plainte  et  splendeur  !  la  plenitude  aride) 

*et  vers  les  grands  pdtales  d'agitations 
Lors  ^vanouissait  un  vol  ardent  qui  stride.  .  .  « 

*(des  saltigrades  doux  n'iront  plus  vers  les  mers.  .  .  .)' 

One  thing  must  be  acknowledged,  and  that  is,  the  Symbolists 
have  an  astonishing  gift  for  titles.  The  book  itself  may  belong 
to  pure  mad-house  literature  ;  the  title  is  always  remarkable. 
We  have  already  seen  that  Mor6as  names  one  of  his  collection 
of  verses  Les  Syrtes.  He  might  in  truth  just  as  well  call  it  the 
North  Pole,  or  The  Marmot,  or  Abd-el-Kader,  since  these  have 
just  as  much  connection  with  the  poems  in  the  little  volume  as 
Syrtes ;  but  it  is  undeniable  that  this  geographical  name  calls 
up  the  lustre  of  an  African  sun,  and  the  pale  reflection  of  classic 
antiquity,  which  may  well  please  the  eye  of  the  hysteric  reader. 
Edouard  Dubus  entitles  his  poem,  Quand  les  Violons  sont partis  ; 
Louis  Dumur,  Lassitudes  ;  Gustave  Khan,  Les  Palais  nomades ; 
Maurice  du  Plessis,  La  Peau  de  Marsyas ;  Ernest  Raynaud, 
Chairs  profanes   and    Le    Signe;    Henri   de    Regnier,    Sites  .et 


136  DEGENERATION 

Episodes;  Arthur  Rimbaud,  Les  Ilhnninaiions ;  Albert  Saint  Paul, 
LEcharp'e  d'Iris;  Viele-Griffin,  AnccBus ;  and  Charles  Vignier, 
Centojt. 

Of  the  prose  of  the  Symbolists,  I  have  already  given  some 
examples.  I  should  further  like  to  cite  only  a  few  passages 
from  a  book  which  the  Symbolists  declare  to  be  one  of  their 
most  powerful  mental  manifestations,  La  Litterature  de  toiit-a- 
VheiLve,  by  Charles  Morice.  It  is  a  sort  of  bird's-eye  view  of  the 
development  of  literature  up  to  the  present  time,  a  rapid  critique 
of  the  more  and  most  recent  books  and  authors,  a  kind  of 
programme  of  the  literature  of  the  future.  This  book  is  one 
of  the  most  astonishing  which  exists  in  any  language.  It 
strongly  resembles  Rembrandt  as  Educator,  but  is  far  beyond 
that  book  in  the  utter  senselessness  of  its  concatenations 
of  words.  It  is  a  monument  of  pure  literary  insanity,  of 
'  graphomania';  and  neither  Delepierre  in  his  Litterature  des 
Fous,  nor  Philomnestes  (Gustave  Brunet)  in  his  Fous  Litteraires, 
quotes  examples  of  more  complete  mental  dislocation  than  are 
visible  in  every  page  of  this  book.  Notice  the  following  confes- 
sion of  faith  by  Morice  :*  '  Although  in  this  book  treating  only 
of  aesthetics — although  of  aesthetics  based  upon  metaphysics — 
we  shall  remember  to  refrain,  as  far  as  possible,  from  pure 
philosophizing,  we  must  approximately  paraphrase  a  word 
which  will  more  than  once  be  made  use  of,  and  which,  in  the 
highest  sense  here  put  upon  it,  is  not  incapable  of  being  para- 
phrased. God  is  the  first  and  universal  cause,  the  final  and 
universal  end  ;  the  bond  between  spirits ;  the  point  of  intersec- 
tion where  two  parallels  would  meet ;  the  fulfilment  of  our 
inclinations  ;  the  fruition  which  accords  with  the  glories  of  our 
dreams ;  the  abstraction  itself  of  the  concrete ;  the  unseen  and 
unheard  and  yet  certain  ideal  of  our  demands  for  beauty  in 
truth.  God  is,  par  excellence,  THE  very  word — the  very  word, 
that  is  to  say,  that  unknown  certain  word  of  which  every  author 
has  the  incontrovertible,  but  undiscernible  idea,  the  self-evident 
but  hidden  goal  which  he  will  never  reach,  and  which  he 
approaches  as  near  as  possible.  In,  so  to  say,  practical  aesthetics 
He  is  the  atmosphere  of  joy  in  which  the  mind  revels  victorious, 
because  it  has  reduced  irreducible  mystery  to  imperishable 
symbols.'  I  do  not  for  a  moment  doubt  that  this  incomparable 
jumble  will  be  quite  intelligible  to  theologians.  Like  all  mystics, 
they  discover  a  sense  in  every  sound  ;  that  is,  they  persuade 
themselves  and  others  that  the  nebulous  ideas  which  the  sound 
awakens  in  their  brains  by  association  are  the  meaning  of  that 
sound.  But  anyone  who  demands  of  words  that  they  should 
be  the  media  of  definite  thoughts,  will  perceive  in  the  face  of 
this  twaddle  that  the  author  was  not  thinking  anything  at  all 
*  Morice,  op.  cit.,  p.  30. 


MYSTICISM  137 

when  he  wrote,  although  he  was  dreaming  of  many  things. 
'Religion^  is  for  Morice  (p.  56),  'the  source  of  art,  and  art  in 
its  essence  is  reh'gious  '—an  affirmation  which  he  borrows  from 
Ruskin,  although  he  does  not  acknowledge  it.  '  Our  scholars, 
our  thinkers  .  .  .  the  luminous  heads  of  the  nineteenth  century,' 
are  '  Edgar  Poe,  Carlyle,  Herbert  Spencer,  Darwin,  Auguste 
Comte,  Claude  Bernard,  Berthelot '  (p.  57).  Edgar  Poe  by  the 
side  of  Spencer,  Darwin,  and  Claude  Bernard  !  never  have  ideas 
danced  a  crazier  fools'  quadrille  in  a  disordered  brain. 

And  this  book,  of  which  the  passages  we  have  cited  give  a 
sufficiently  correct  idea,  was,  in  France  (just  as  Rembrandt  as 
Educator  was  in  Germany),  pronounced  by  thoroughly  re- 
sponsible critics  to  be  '  strange,  but  interesting  and  suggestive.' 
A  poor  degenerate  devil  who  scribbles  such  stuff,  and  an  imbecile 
reader  who  follows  his  twaddle  like  passing  clouds,  are  simply 
to  be  pitied.  But  what  words  of  contempt  are  strong  enough 
for  the  sane  intellectual  tatterdemalions  who,  in  order  not  to 
offend  or  else  to  give  themselves  the  appearance  of  possessing  a 
remarkable  faculty  of  comprehension,  or  to  affect  fairness  and 
benevolence  even  towards  those  whose  opinions  they  in  part  do 
not  share,  insist  that  they  discover  in  books  of  this  kind  many 
a  truth,  much  wit  along  with  peculiar  whims,  an  ideal  of  fervour 
and  frequent  lightnings  of  thought? 

The  word  '  Symbolism  '  conveys,  as  we  have  seen,  no  idea  to  its 
inventors.  They  pursue  no  definite  artistic  tendency  ;  hence  it 
is  not  possible  to  show  them  that  their  tendency  is  a  false  one. 
It  is  otherwise  with  some  of  their  disciples,  who  joined  their 
ranks,  partly  through  a  desire  to  advertise  themselves,  partly 
because  they  thought  that,  in  the  conflicts  between  literary 
parties,  they  were  fighting  on  the  side  which  was  the  stronger 
and  the  more  sure  of  victory,  and  partly,  also,  through  the  folly 
of  fashion,  and  through  the  influence  exerted  by  any  noisy 
novelty  over  uncritical  minds.  Less  weak-brained  than  the 
leaders,  they  felt  the  need  of  giving  the  word  *  Symbolism  '  a 
certain  significance,  and,  in  fact,  drew  up  a  number  of  axioms 
which,  according  to  their  profession,  serve  to  guide  them  in 
their  creations.  These  axioms  are  sufficiently  defined  to  allow  of 
discussion. 

The  Symbolists  demand  greater  freedom  in  the  treatment  of 
French  verse.  They  fiercely  rebel  against  the  old  alexandrines, 
with  the  caesura  in  the  middle,  and  the  necessary  termination  of 
the  sentence  at  the  end  ;  against  the  prohibition  of  the  hiatus  ; 
against  the  law  of  a  regular  alternation  of  masculine  and 
feminine  rhymes.  They  make  defiant  use  of  the  '  free  verse,' 
with  length  and  rhythm  ad  libitum,  and  false  rhymes.  The 
foreigner  can  only  smile  at  the  savage  gestures  with  which  this 
conflict  is  carried  on.     It  is  a  schoolboys'  war  against  some 


138  DEGENERATION 

hated  book,  which  is  solemnly  torn  in  pieces,  trodden  under 
foot,  and  burned.  The  whole  dispute  concerning  prosody  and 
the  rules  of  rhyme  is,  so  to  speak,  an  inter-Gallic  concern,  and 
is  of  no  consequence  to  the  literature  of  the  world.  We  have 
long  had  everything  which  the  French  poets  are  only  now  seek- 
ing to  obtain  by  barricades  and  street  massacres.  In  Goethe's 
Prometheus,  Mahomefs  Gesmig,  Harzreise  im  Winter,  in  Heine's 
Nordsee  Cyklus,  etc.,  we  possess  perfect  models  of  free  verse  ; 
we  alternate  the  rhymes  as  we  will ;  we  allow  masculine  and 
feminine  rhymes  to  follow  one  another  as  seems  good  to  us  ; 
we  do  not  bind  ourselves  to  the  rigid  law  of  old  classic  metres, 
but  suffer,  in  the  cradling  measure  of  our  verse,  anapaests  to 
alternate  with  iambics  and  spondees,  according  to  our  feeling 
for  euphony.  English,  Italian  and  Sclavonic  poetry  have  gone 
equally  far,  and  if  the  French  alone  have  remained  behind,  and 
have  at  last  found  a  need  for  casting  aside  their  old  matted, 
moth-eaten  periwig,  this  is  quite  reasonable;  but  to  anyone  but 
a  Frenchman  they  merely  make  themselves  ridiculous  when 
they  trumpet  their  painful  hobbling  after  the  nations  who  are 
far  in  front  of  them,  as  an  unheard-of  discovery  of  new  paths 
and  opening  up  of  new  roads,  and  as  an  advance  inspired  by 
the  ideal  into  the  dawn  of  the  future. 

Another  aesthetic  demand  of  the  Symbolists  is  that  the  line 
should,  independently  of  its  sense,  call  forth  an  intended 
emotion  merely  by  its  sound.  A  word  should  produce  an 
effect,  not  through  the  idea  which  it  embodies,  but  as  a  tone, 
language  becoming  music.  It  is  noteworthy  that  many  of  the 
Symbolists  have  given  their  books  titles  which  are  intended  to 
awaken  musical  ideas.  We  find  Les  Gavimes  (The  Scales), 
by  Stuart  Merrill ;  Les  Cantilenes,  by  Jean  Moreas  ;  Cloches  dans 
la  Nuit,  by  Adolphe  Rette ;  Romances  sans  Paroles,  by  Paul 
Verlaine,  etc.  To  make  use  of  language  as  a  musical  instru- 
ment for  the  production  of  pure  tone  effects  is  the  delirious  idea 
of  a  mystic.  We  have  seen  that  the  pre-Raphaelites  demand 
of  the  fine  arts  that  they  should  not  represent  the  concrete 
plastically  or  optically,  but  should  express  the  abstract,  and 
therefore  simply  undertake  the  role  of  alphabetic  writing. 
Similarly,  the  Symbolists  displace  all  the  natural  boundary  lines 
of  art,  and  impose  upon  the  word  a  task  which  belongs  to 
musical  signs  only.  But  while  the  pre-Raphaelites  wish  to 
raise  the  fine  arts  to  a  higher  rank  than  is  suited  to  them,  the 
Symbolists  greatly  degrade  the  word.  In  its  origin  sound  is 
musical.  It  expresses  no  definite  idea,  but  only  a  general 
emotion  of  the  animal.  The  cricket  fiddles,  the  nightingale 
trills,  when  sexually  excited.  The  bear  growls  when  stirred  by 
the  lage  of  conflict ;  the  lion  roars  in  his  pleasure  when  tearing 
a  living  prey.  In  proportion  as  the  brain  develops  in  the 
animal  kingdom,  and   mental  life  becomes  richer,  the  means  of 


MYSTICISM  139 

vocal  expression  are  evolved  and  differentiated,  and  become 
capable  of  making  perceptible  to  the  senses  not  only  simple 
generic  emotions,  but  also  presentative  complexes  of  a  more 
restricted  and  definitely  delimitated  nature — nay,  if  Professor 
Garner's  observations  concerning  the  language  of  apes  are 
accurate,  even  tolerably  distinct  single  presentations.  Sound, 
as  a  means  of  expressing  mental  operations,  reaches  its  final 
perfection  in  cultivated,  grammatically  articulated  language, 
inasmuch  as  it  can  then  follow  exactly  the  intellectual  working 
of  the  brain,  and  make  it  objectively  perceptible  in  all  the 
minutest  details.  To  bring  the  word,  pregnant  with  thought, 
back  to  the  emotional  sound  is  to  renounce  all  the  results 
of  organic  development,  and  to  degrade  man,  rejoicing  in 
the  power  of  speech,  to  the  level  of  the  whirring  cricket 
or  the  croaking  frog.  The  efforts  of  the  Symbolists,  then, 
result  in  senseless  twaddle,  but  not  in  the  word -music  they 
intend,  for  this  simply  does  not  exist.  No  word  of  any  single 
human  language  is,  as  such,  musical.  Many  languages  abound 
in  consonants  ;  in  others  vowels  predominate.  The  former 
require  more  dexterity  in  the  muscles  employed  in  speaking  ; 
their  pronunciation,  therefore,  counts  as  more  difficult,  and  they 
seem  less  agreeable  to  the  ears  of  foreigners  than  the  languages 
which  are  rich  in  vowels.  But  this  has  nothing  to  do  with  the 
musical  side  of  the  question.  What  remains  of  the  phonetic 
effect  of  a  word  if  it  is  whispered,  or  if  it  is  only  visible  as  a 
written  character?  And  yet  in  both  cases  it  is  able  to  awaken 
the  same  emotions,  as  if  it  had  reached  consciousness  full-toned 
through  the  sense  of  hearing.  Let  anyone  have  read  aloud  to 
him  the  most  cleverly  chosen  arrangement  of  words  in  a 
language  completely  unknown  to  him,  and  try  to  produce  in 
himself  a  definite  emotion  through  the  mere  phonetic  effect.  In 
every  case  it  will  be  found  impossible.  The  meaning  of  a  word, 
and  not  its  sound,  determines  its  value.  The  sound  is  as  such 
neither  beautiful  nor  ugly.  It  becomes  so  only  through  the 
voice  which  gives  it  life.  Even  the  first  soliloquy  in  Goethe's 
Iphigenie  would  be  ugly  coming  from  the  throat  of  a  drunkard. 
I  have  had  the  opportunity  of  convincing  myself  that  even  the 
Hottentot  language,  spoken  in  a  mellow,  agreeable  contralto 
voice,  could  be  pleasing. 

Still  more  cracked  is  the  craze  of  a  sub-section  of  the  Sym- 
bolists, the  *  Instrumentalists,'  whose  spokesman  is  Rene  Ghil. 
They  connect  each  sound  with  a  definite  feeling  of  colour,  and 
demand  that  the  word  should  not  only  awaken  musical  emotion, 
but  at  the  same  time  operate  aesthetically  in  producing  a  colour- 
harmony. '  This  mad  idea  has  its  origin  in  a  much-quoted  sonnet 
by  Arthur  Rimbaud,  Les  Voyelles  (Vowels),  of  which  the  first 
line  runs  thus  : 

*  A  black,  e  white,  i  red,  u  green,  o  blue.' 


I40  DEGENERATION 

Morice  declares*  explicitly  (what  in  any  case  no  one  in  a  sane 
state  of  mind  would  have  doubted)  that  Rimbaud  wished  to 
make  one  of  those  silly  jokes  which  imbeciles  and  idiots  are  in 
the  habit  of  perpetrating.  Some  of  his  comrades,  however,  took 
the  sonnet  in  grim  earnest,  and  deduced  from  it  a  theory  of  art. 
In  his  Trait e  du  Vei'be  Rene  Ghil  specifies  the  colour-value,  not 
only  of  individual  vowels,  but  of  musical  instruments.  '  Harps 
establish  their  supremacy  by  being  white.  And  violins  are  blue, 
often  softened  by  a  shimmer  of  light,  to  subdue  paroxysms.' 
(It  is  to  be  hoped  the  reader  will  duly  appraise  these  combina- 
tions of  words.)  '  In  the  exuberance  of  ovations,  brass  instru- 
rhents  are  red,  flutes  yellow,  allowing  the  childlike  to  proclaim 
itself  astonished  at  the  luminance  of  the  lips.  And  the  organ, 
synthesis  of  all  simple  instruments,  bewails  deafness  of  earth 
and  the  flesh  all  in  black.  .  .  .'  Another  Symbolist,  who  has 
many  admirers,  M.  Francis  Poictevin,  teaches  us,  in  Derniers 
Songes,  to  know  the  feelings  corresponding  to  colours.  '  Blue 
goes — without  more  of  passion — from  love  to  death ;  or,  more 
accurately,  it  is  a  lost  extreme.  From  turquoise  blue  to  indigo, 
one  goes  from  the  most  shame-faced  influences  to  final  ravages.' 

Wiseacres  were,  of  course,  at  once  to  the  fore,  and  set  up  a 
quasi-scientific  theory  of  'colour-hearing.'  Sounds  are  said  to 
awaken  sensations  of  colour  in  many  persons.  According  to 
some,  this  was  a  gift  of  specially  finely  organized  nervous  natures  ; 
according  to  others,  it  was  due  to  an  accidental  abnormal  con- 
nection between  the  optic  and  acoustic  brain-centres  by  means 
of  nerve  filaments.  This  anatomical  explanation  is  entirely 
arbitrary,  and  has  not  been  substantiated  by  any  facts.  But 
'  colour-hearing  '  itself  is  by  no  means  confirmed.  The  most 
complete  book  hitherto  published  on  this  subject,  the  author  of 
which  is  the  French  oculist,  Suarez  de  Mendoza,t  collects  all 
the  available  observations  on  this  alleged  phenomenon,  and 
deduces  from  them  the  following  definition  :  '  It  is  the  faculty 
of  associating  tones  and  colours,  by  which  every  objective 
acoustic  perception  of  sufficient  intensity,  nay,  even  the  memory- 
image  of  such  a  perception,  arouses  in  certain  persons  a  luminous 
or  non-luminous  image,  which  is  always  the  same  for  the  same 
letters,  the  same  tone  of  voice  or  instrument,  and  the  same 
intensity  or  pitch  of  tone.'  Suarez  well  hits  the  truth  when  he 
says,  *  Colour-hearing  '  (he  calls  iX.  pseiido-photesthhie)  '  is  often  a 
consequence  of  an  association  of  ideas  established  in  youth  .  .  . 
and  often  of  a  special  action  of  the  brain,  the  particular  nature 
of  which  is  unknown  to  us,  and  may  have  a  certain  similarity 
to  sense-illusion   and  hallucination.'     For  my  part,  I   have  no 

*  Morice,  op,  cit ,  p.  321. 

f  Dr.  F.  Suarez  de  Mendoza,  L Audition  coloree :  Etude  sur  les  fausses 
Sensations  secondaires  phjsiologiques.     Paris,  1892. 


MYSTICISM  141 

doubt  that  colour-hearing  is  always  the  consequence  of  associa- 
tion of  ideas,  the  origins  of  which  must  remain  obscure,  because 
the  combination  of  certain  presentations  of  colour  with  certain 
sensations  of  sound  may  possibly  depend  upon  the  very  evan- 
escent perceptions  of  early  childhood,  which  were  not  powerful 
enough  to  arouse  the  attention,  and  have  therefore  remained 
undiscerned  in  consciousness.  That  it  is  a  question  of  purely 
individual  associations  brought  about  by  the  accident  of  asso- 
ciated ideas,  and  not  of  organic  co-ordinations  depending  upon 
definite  abnormal  nervous  connections,  is  made  very  probable 
by  the  fact  that  every  colour-hearer  ascribes  a  different  colour  to 
the  same  vowel  or  instrument.  We  have  seen  that  to  Ghil  the 
flute  is  yellow,  to  L.  Hoffmann  (whom  Goethe  cites  in  his 
Farbenlehre)  this  instrument  is  scarlet.  Rimbaud  calls  the  letter 
*  a '  black.  Persons  whom  Suarez  mentions  heard  this  vowel 
as  blue,  and  so  on. 

The  relation  between  the  external  world  and  the  organism 
is  originally  very  simple.  Movements  are  continually  occurring 
in  nature,  and  the  protoplasm  of  living  cells  perceives  these 
movements.  Unity  of  effect  corresponds  to  unity  of  cause. 
The  lowest  animals  perceive  of  the  outer  world  only  this,  that 
something  in  it  changes,  and  possibly,  also,  whether  this  change 
is  marked  or  slight,  sudden  or  slow.  They  receive  sensations 
differing  quantitatively,  but  not  qualitatively.  We  know,  for 
example,  that  the  proboscis,  or  syphon,  of  the  PJiolas  dactylus^ 
which  contracts  more  or  less  vigorously  and  quickly  at  every 
excitation,  is  sensitive  to  all  external  impressions — light,  noise, 
touch,  smell,  etc.  This  mollusc  sees,  hears,  feels  and  smells, 
therefore,  with  this  simple  organ  ;  his  proboscis  is  to  him  at 
once  eye,  ear,  nose,  finger,  etc.  In  the  higher  animals  the  pro- 
toplasm is  differentiated.  Nerves,  ganglia,  brain  and  sense- 
apparatus  are  formed.  The  movements  of  nature  are  now  per- 
ceived in  a  variety  of  ways.  The  differentiated  senses  transform 
the  unity  of  the  phenomenon  into  the  diversity  of  the  percept. 
But  even  in  the  highest  and  most  differentiated  brain  there  still 
remains  something  like  a  very  distant  and  yery  dim  remembrance 
that  the  cause  which  excites  the  different  senses  is  one  and  the 
same  movement,  and  there  are  formed  presentations  and  con- 
ceptions which  would  be  unintelligible  if  we  could  not  concede 
this  vague  intuition  of  the  fundamental  unity  of  essence  in  all 
perceptions.  We  speak  of  '  high  '  and  *  deep '  tones,  and  thus 
give  to  sound-waves  a  relationship  in  space  which  they  cannot 
have.  In  the  same  way  we  speak  of  tone-colour,  and,  conversely, 
of  colour-tones,  and  thus  confound  the  acoustic  and  optic  pro- 
perties of  the  phenomena.  '  Hard  '  and  '  soft '  lines  or  tones, 
'  sweet '  voices,  are  frequent  modes  of  expression,  which  depend 
on  a  transference  of  the  perception  of  one  sense  to  the  impres- 


142  DEGENERATION 

sions  of  another.  In  many  cases  this  method  of  speech  may  no 
doubt  be  traced  to  mental  inertia.  It  is  more  convenient  to 
designate  a  sense-perception  by  a  word  which  is  familiar,  though 
borrowed  from  the  province  of  another  sense,  than  to  create  a 
special  word  for  the  particular  percept.  But  even  this  loan  for 
convenience'  sake  is  possible  and  intelligible  only  if  we  admit 
that  the  mind  perceives  certain  resemblances  between  the  im- 
pressions of  the  different  senses — resemblances  which,  although 
they  are  often  to  be  explained  by  conscious  or  unconscious  asso- 
ciation of  ideas,  are  oftener  quite  inexplicable  objectively.  It 
only  remains  for  us  to  assume  that  consciousness,  in  its  deepest 
substrata,  neglects  the  differentiation  of  phenomena  by  the 
various  senses,  passes  over  this  perfection  attained  very  late  in 
organic  evolution,  and  treats  impressions  only  as  undifferentiated 
material  for  the  acquirement  of  knowledge  of  the  external  world 
without  reference  to  their  origin  by  way  of  this  or  that  sense. 
It  thus  becomes  intelligible  that  the  mind  mingles  the  percep- 
tions attained  through  the  different  senses,  and  transforms  them 
one  into  another.  Binet*  has  established,  in  his  excellent  essays, 
this  transposition  of  the  senses  in  hysterical  persons.  A  female 
patient,  whose  skin  was  perfectly  insensible  on  one  half  of  her 
body,  took  no  notice  when,  unseen  by  herself,  she  was  pricked 
with  a  needle.  But  at  the  moment  of  puncture  there  arose  in 
her  consciousness  the  image  of  a  black  (in  the  case  of  another 
invalid,  of  a  bright)  point.  Consciousness  thus  transposed  an 
impression  of  the  nerves  of  the  skin,  which,  as  such,  was  not 
perceived,  into  an  impression  of  the  retina,  of  the  optic  nerve. 

In  any  case,  it  is  an  evidence  of  diseased  and  debilitated 
brain-activity,  if  consciousness  relinquishes  the  advantages  of 
the  differentiated  perceptions  of  phenomena,  and  carelessly  con- 
founds the  reports  conveyed  by  the  particular  senses.  It  is  a 
retrogression  to  the  very  beginning  of  organic  development.  It 
is  a  descent  from  the  height  of  human  perfection  to  the  low 
level  of  the  mollusc.  To  raise  the  combination,  transposition 
and  confusion  of  the  perceptions  of  sound  and  sight  to  the  rank 
of  a  principle  of  art,  to  see  futurity  in  this  principle,  is  to 
designate  as  progress  the  return  from  the  consciousness  of  man 
to  that  of  the  oyster. 

Moreover,  it  is  an  old  clinical  observation  that  mental  decay 
is  accompanied  by  colour  mysticism.  One  of  Legrain's-f*  mental 
invalids  '  endeavoured  to  recognise  good  and  evil  by  the 
difference  of  colour,  ascending  from  white  to  black;  when  he 
was  reading,  words  had  (according  to  their  colour)  a  hidden 
meaning,   which    he   understood.'      LombrosoJ   cites   '  eccentric 

*  Alfred  Binet,  '  Recherche  sur  les  alterations  de  la  conscience  chez  les 
hyst^riques,'  Revue  pJiilosophiqzce^  1889,  27^  vol.,  p.  165. 
t  Legrain  fip.  ciL,  p.  162. 
J  Lombroso   Genie  und  Irrsmn.     German  edition,  p.  233. 


MYSTICISM  143 

persons*  who,  'like  Wigman,  had  the  paper  for  their  books 
specially  manufactured  with  several  colours  on  each  page.  .  .  . 
Filon  painted  each  page  of  the  books  he  wrote  in  a  different 
colour.'  Barbey  d'Aurevilly,  whom  the  Symbolists  venerate  as 
a  pioneer,  used  to  write  epistles  in  which  each  letter  of  a  word 
was  coloured  with  a  different  tint.  Most  alienists  know  similar 
cases  in  their  experience. 

The  more  reliable  Symbolists  proclaim  their  movement  as  '  a 
reaction  against  naturalism.'  Such  a  reaction  was  certainly 
justified  and  necessary;  for  naturalism  in  its  beginnings,  as 
long  as  it  was  embodied  in  De  Goncourt  and  Zola,  was  morbid, 
and,  in  its  later  development  in  the  hands  of  their  imitators, 
vulgar  and  even  criminal,  as  will  be  proved  further  on.  Never- 
theless Symbolism  is  not  in  the  smallest  degree  qualified  to 
conquer  naturalism,  because  it  is  still  more  morbid  than  the 
latter,  and,  in  art,  the  devil  cannot  be  driven  out  by  Beelzebub. 

Finally,  it  is  affirmed  that  Symbolism  connotes  '  the  inscribing 
of  a  symbol  in  human  form.'  Expressed  unmystically,  this 
means  that  in  the  poems  of  the  Symbolists  the  particular  human 
form  should  not  only  exhibit  its  special  nature  and  contingent 
destiny,  but  also  represent  a  general  type  of  humanity,  and 
embody  a  universal  law  of  life.  This  quality,  however,  is  not 
the  monopoly  of  Symbolistic  poetry,  but  belongs  to  all  kinds  of 
poetry.  No  genuine  poet  has  yet  been  impelled  to  deal  with 
an  utterly  unprecedented  and  unique  case,  or  with  a  monstrous 
being  whose  likeness  is  not  to  be  found  in  mankind.  That 
which  interests  him  in  men  and  their  destiny  is  just  the  intimate 
connection  between  the  two  and  the  universal  laws  of  human 
life.  The  more  the  government  of  universal  laws  is  made 
apparent  in  the  fate  of  the  individual,  the  more  there  is  embodied 
in  him  that  which  lives  in  all  men,  so  much  the  more  attractive 
will  this  destiny  and  this  man  be  to  the  poet.  There  is  not  in 
all  the  literature  of  humanity  a  single  work  of  recognised  im- 
portance which  in  this  sense  is  not  symbolic,  and  in  which  the 
characters,  their  passions  and  fortunes,  have  not  a  typical 
significance,  far  transcending  the  particular  circumstances.  It 
is,  therefore,  a  piece  of  foolish  arrogance'  in  the  Symbolists  to 
lay  claim  to  the  sole  possession  of  this  quality  in  the  works  of 
their  school.  They  show,  moreover,  that  they  do  not  under- 
stand their  own  formulas  ;  for  those  theorists  of  the  school  who 
demand  of  poetry  that  it  should  be  'a  symbol  inscribed  in 
human  form,'  assert  at  the  same  time  that  only  the  '  rare  and 
unique  case  '  [le  cas  rare  et  unique)  deserves  the  attention  of  the 
poet,  i.e.,  the  case  which  is  significant  of  nothing  beyond  itself, 
and  consequently  the  opposite  of  a  symbol.* 

*  I  may  here  be  allowed  to  remind  my  readers  that  in  the  year  1885,  and, 
accordingly,  before  the  promulgation  of  the  professed  symbolistic  programme, 
I  laid  down  in  my  Paradoxe  (popular  edition,  part  ii.,  p.  253)  the  principle 


144  DEGENERATION 

We  have  now  seen  that  Symbolism,  like  English  pre- 
Raphaelitism  (from  which  it  borrowed  its  catch-words  and 
opinions),  is  nothing  else  than  a  form  of  the  mysticism  of  weak- 
minded  and  morbidly  emotional  degeneration.  The  efforts  of 
some  followers  of  the  movement  to  import  a  meaning  into  the 
stammering  utterances  of  their  leaders,  and  falsely  to  ascribe  to 
them  a  sort  of  programme,  do  not  for  a  moment  withstand 
criticism,  but  show  themselves  to  be  graphomaniac  and  delirious 
twaddle,  without  the  smallest  grain  of  truth  or  sound  reason, 
A  young  Frenchman,  who  is  certainly  not  adverse  to  rational 
innovation,  Hugues  Le  Roux,*  describes  the  group  of  Symbolists 
quite  correctly  in  saying  of  them  :  '  They  are  ridiculous  cripples, 
each  intolerable  to  the  other ;  they  live  uncomprehended  by  the 
public,  several  by  their  friends  as  well,  and  a  few  by  themselves. 
As  poets  or  prose  writers  they  proceed  in  the  same  way  :  no 
material,  no  sense,  and  only  juxtapositions  of  loud-sounding 
musical  (?)  words  ;  teams  of  strange  rhymes,  groupings  of  unex- 
pected colours  and  tones,  swaying  cadences,  hurtlings,  hallucina- 
tions and  evoked  suggestions.' 


CHAPTER  IV. 

TOLSTOISM. 

Count  Leo  Tolstoi  has  become  in  the  last  few  years  one  of 
the  best-known,  and  apparently,  also,  of  the  most  widely-read 
authors  in  the  world.  Every  one  of  his  words  awakens  an  echo 
among  all  civilized  nations  on  the  globe.  His  strong  influence 
over  his  contemporaries  is  unmistakable.  But  it  is  no  artistic 
influence.  No  one  has  yet  imitated  him — at  least,  for  the 
present.  He  has  formed  no  school  after  the  manner  of  the 
pre-Raphaelites  and  Symbolists.  The  already  large  number  of 
writings  to  which  he  has  given  occasion  are  explanatory  or 
critical.  There  are  no  poetical  creations  modelled  upon  his 
own.  The  influence  which  he  exercises  over  contemporary 
thoughts  and  feelings  is  a  moral  one,  and  applies  far  more  to 
the  great  bulk  of  his  readers  than  to  the  smaller  circle  of 
strugglmg  authors  who  are  on  the  look-out  for  a  leader.     What 

that  the  poet  must  'to  the  majority  of  his  readers  utter  the  deep  saying, 
^^  Tat  twatn  asi /" — "That  art  thou  1"  of  the  Indian  sage,'  and  'must 
be  able,  with  the  ancient  Romans,  to  repeat  to  the  sound  and  normally 
developed  man,  ^^  Of  thee  is  the  fable  related"  In  other  words,  the  poem 
must  be  "symbolical"  in  the  sense  that  it  brings  into  view  characters, 
destinies,  feelings  and  laws  of  life  which  are  universal.' 

*  Hugues  Le  Roux,  Portraits  de  Cire.     Paris,  1 891,  p.  129. 


MYSTICISM  145 

we,  then,  can  call  Tolstoism  is  no  aesthetic  theory,  but  rather  a 
conception  of  life. 

In  order  to  bring  forward  the  proof  that  Tolstoism  is  a 
mental  aberration,  that  it  is  a  form  of  the  phenomenon  of 
degeneration,  it  will  be  necessary  to  look  critically  first  at 
Tolstoi  himself,  and  then  at  the  public  which  is  inspired  by  his 
thoughts. 

Tolstoi  is  at  once  a  poet  and  a  philosopher,  the  latter  in  the 
widest  sense — i.e.,  he  is  a  theologian,  a  moralist,  and  a  social 
theorist.  As  the  author  of  works  of  imagination  he  stands  very 
high,  even  if  he  does  not  equal  his  countryman  Tourgenieff, 
whom  he  at  present  appears  in  the  estimation  of  most  people 
to  have  thrown  into  the  shade,  Tolstoi  does  not  possess  the 
splendid  sense  of  artistic  proportion  of  Tourgenieff,  with  whom 
there  is  never  a  word  too  much,  who  neither  protracts  his 
subject  nor  digresses  from  his  point,  and  who,  as  a  grand  and 
genuine  creator  of  men,  stands  Prometheus-like  over  the  figures 
he  has  inspired  with  life.  Even  Tolstoi's  greatest  admirers 
admit  that  he  is  long-winded,  loses  himself  in  details,  and  does 
not  always  know  how  to  sacrifice  the  unessential  in  order,  with 
sure  judgment,  to  enhance  the  indispensable.  Speaking  of  the 
novel  War  and  Peace,  M.  de  Vogue*  says:  '  Is  this  complicated 
work  properly  to  be  termed  a  novel  .''...  The  very  simple 
and  very  loose  thread  of  the  plot  serves  to  connect  chapters  on 
history,  politics,  philosophy,  which  are  all  crammed  promis- 
cuously into  this  polygraphy  of  Russian  life.  .  .  .  Enjoyment 
has  here  to  be  purchased  in  a  manner  resembling  a  mountain 
ascent.  The  way  is  often  wearisome  and  hard  ;  at  times  one  goes 
astray ;  efifort  is  necessary  and  toil.  .  .  .  Those  who  only  seek 
diversion  in  fiction  are  by  Tolstoi  driven  from  their  wonted 
ways.  This  close  analyst  does  not  know,  or  else  disdains,  the 
first  duty  of  analysis,  which  is  so  natural  to  the  French  genius ; 
we  desire  that  the  novelist  should  select ;  that  he  should  set 
apart  a  person,  a  fact,  out  of  the  chaos  of  beings  and  things, 
in  order  to  observe  the  objects  of  his  choice.  The  Russian, 
governed  by  the  feeling  of  universal  interdependence,  cannot 
make  up  his  mind  to  cut  the  thousand  cord's  which  unite  a  man, 
a  fact,  a  thought,  to  the  whole  course  of  the  world.' 

Vogue  sees  rightly  that  these  facts  are  deserving  of  notice, 
but  he  cannot  explain  them.  Unconsciously  he  has  clearly 
characterized  the  method  with  which  a  mystical  degenerate 
looks  upon  the  world,  and  depicts  its  phenomena.  We  know 
that  it  is  lack  of  attention  which  constitutes  the  peculiarity  of 
mystical  thought.  It  is  attention  which  selects  from  the  chaos  of 
phenomena,  and  so  groups  what  it  selects  as  to  illustrate  the 
predominating  thought  in  the  mind  of  the  beholder.     If  atten- 

*  V*^  E.  M.  de  Vogii^,  Le  Roman  russe.     Paris,  1888,  p.  293  et  seq. 
10 


146  DEGENERATION 

tion  fails,  the  world  appears  to  the  beholder  like  a  uniform 
stream  of  enigmatic  states,  which  emerge  and  disappear  with- 
out any  connection,  and  remain  completely  without  expres- 
sion to  consciousness.  These  primary  facts  of  mental  life  must 
ever  be  kept  in  view  by  the  reader.  The  attitude  of  the  atten- 
tive man  in  the  face  of  external  phenomena  is  one  of  activity ; 
that  of  the  inattentive  man  is  passive  ;  the  former  orders  them 
according  to  a  plan  which  he  has  worked  out  in  his  mind  ;  the 
latter  receives  the  turmoil  of  their  impress  without  attempting 
to  organize,  separate,  or  co-ordinate.  The  difference  is  the 
same  as  that  between  the  reproduction  of  the  scenes  of  nature 
by  a  good  painter  and  a  photographic  plate.  The  painting 
suppresses  certain  features  in  the  world's  phenomena,  and  brings 
others  into  prominence,  so  that  it  at  once  permits  a  distinct 
external  incident,  or  a  definite  internal  emotion  of  the  painter, 
to  be  recognised.  The  photograph  reflects  the  whole  scene  with 
all  its  details  indiscriminately,  so  that  it  is  without  meaning,  until 
the  beholder  brings  into  play  his  attention,  which  the  sensitive 
plate  could  not  do.  At  the  same  time  it  is  to  be  observed  that 
even  the  photograph  is  not  a  true  impression  of  reality,  for  the 
sensitive  plate  is  only  sensitive  to  certain  colours ;  it  records  the 
blue  and  violet,  and  receives  from  yellow  and  red  either  a  weak 
impression  or  none  at  all.  The  sensitiveness  of  the  chemical 
plate  corresponds  to  the  emotionalism  of  the  degenerate  mind. 
The  latter  also  makes  a  choice  among  phenomena,  not,  however, 
according  to  the  laws  of  conscious  attention,  but  according  to 
the  impulse  of  unconscious  emotionalism.  He  perceives  what- 
ever is  in  tune  with  his  emotions  ;  what  is  not  consonant  with 
them  does  not  exist  for  him.  Thus  arises  the  method  of  work 
which  Voglie  has  pointed  out  in  Tolstoi's  novels.  The  details 
are  perceived  equally,  and  placed  side  by  side,  not  according 
to  their  importance  for  the  leading  idea,  but  according  to 
their  relation  with  the  emotions  of  the  novelist.  For  that 
matter,  there  is  scarcely  any  leading  idea,  or  none  at  all.  The 
reader  must  first  carry  it  into  the  novel,  as  he  would  carry  it 
into  Nature  herself,  into  a  landscape,  into  a  crowd  of  people, 
into  the  course  of  events.  The  novel  is  only  written  because 
the  novelist  felt  certain  strong  emotions,  and  certain  features  of 
the  world's  panorama  as  it  unrolled  before  his  eyes  inten- 
sified these  emotions.  Thus,  the  novel  of  Tolstoi  resembles  the 
picture  of  the  pre-Raphaelites :  an  abundance  of  amazingly 
accurate   details,*  a   mystically  blurred,  scarcely  recognisable, 

*  See,  in  War  and  Peace  (Leo.  N.  Tolstoi's  collected  works,  published, 
with  the  author's  sanction,  by  Raphael  Lowenfeld,  Berlin,  1892,  vols.  v. — viii.), 
the  soldiers'  talk,  part  i.,  p.  252  ;  the  scene  at  the  outposts,  p.  314  et  seg.j 
the  description  of  the  troops  on  the  march,  p.  332  ;  the  death  of  Count 
Besuchoi,  pp.  142-145  ;  the  coursing,  part  ii.,  pp.  383-407,  etc. 


MYSTICISM  147 

leading  idea,*  a  deep  and  strong  emotion.f  This  is  also  dis- 
tinctly felt  by  M.  de  Vogiid,  but  again  without  his  being  able 
to, explain  it.  He  says  :|  'Through  a  peculiar  and  frequent 
contradiction,  this  troubled,  vacillating  mind,  steeped  as  it  is  in 
the  mists  of  Nihilism,  is  endowed  with  an  incomparable  clear- 
ness and  power  of  penetration  for  the  scientific  (?)  study  of  the 
phenomena  of  life.  He  sees  distinctly,  rapidly,  analytically, 
everything  on  earth.  .  .  .  One  might  say,  the  mind  of  an 
English  chemist  in  the  soul  of  an  Indian  Buddhist.  Let  any- 
one who  can  explain  this  singular  union  ;  whoever  succeeds  will 
be  able  to  explain  Russia.  .  .  .  These  phenomena,  which  offer 
so  firm  a  basis  to  him  when  he  observes  them  singly,  he  wishes 
to  know  in  their  universal  relations,  and  to  arrive  at  the  definite 
laws  governing  these  relations,  and  at  their  inaccessible  causes. 
Then  it  is  that  this  clear  vision  darkens,  the  intrepid  inquirer  loses 
his  footing,  he  falls  into  the  abyss  of  philosophical  contradictions  ; 
in  him  and  around  him  he  feels  only  nothingness  and  night.' 

M.  de  VogUe  wishes  for  an  explanation  of  this  '  singular 
union  '  between  great  clearness  in  apprehension  of  details,  and 
complete  incapacity  of  understanding  their  relations  to  each 
other.  The  explanation  is  now  familiar  to  my  readers.  The 
mystical  intellect,  the  intellect  without  attention,  of  the  emotif 
conveys  to  his  consciousness  isolated  impressions,  which  can  be 
very  distinct  if  they  relate  to  his  emotions ;  but  it  is  not  in  the 
condition  to  connect  these  isolated  impressions  intelligibly,  just 
because  it  is  deficient  in  the  attention  necessary  to  this  object. 

Grand  as  are  the  qualities  which  Tolstoi's  works  of  fiction 
possess,  it  is  not  them  he  has  to  thank  for  his  world-wide  fame, 
or  his  influence  on  his  contemporaries.  His  novels  were  recog- 
nised as  remarkable  works,  but  for  decades  of  years  neither 
Peace  and  War,  nor  Anna  Karenina,  nor  his  short  stories,  had 
very  many  readers  outside  Russia  ;  and  the  critics  bestowed 
upon  their  author  only  a  guarded  commendation.  In  Germany, 
as  recently  as  1882,  Franz  Bornmiiller  said  of  Tolstoi  in  his 
BiograpJiical  Dictionary  of  Authors  of  the  Present  Time:  '  He 
possesses  no  ordinary  talent  for  fiction,  but-  one  devoid  of  due 
artistic  finish,  and  which  is  influenced  by  a  certain  one-sided- 
ness  in  his  views  of  life  and  history.'  This  was  the  opinion 
until  a  few  years  ago  of  the  not  very  numerous  non-Russian 
readers  who  knew  him  at  all. 

*  See,  in  War  and  Peace,  the  thoughts  of  the  wounded  Prince  Andre], 
part  i.,  p.  516  ;  Count  Peter's  conversation  with  the  freemason  and  Martinief 
Basdjejeff,  part  ii.,  pp.  106-114,  etc. 

f  War  attd  Peace,  the  episode  of  Princess  Maria  and  her  suitor,  part  i., 
pp.  420-423  ;  the  confinement  of  the  little  Princess,  part  ii.,  pp.  58-65  ;  and 
all  the  passages  where  Count  Rostoff  sees  the  Emperor  Alexander,  or  where 
the  author  speaks  of  the  Emperor  Napoleon  I.,  etc. 

%  Vogue,  op.  cil.,  p.  282. 


148  DEGENERATION 

In  1889  his  Kreutzer  Sonata  appeared,  and  was  the  first  of 
his  works  to  carry  his  name  to  the  borders  of  civilization.  This 
little  tale  was  the  first  to  be  translated  into  all  cultivated 
languages.  It  was  disseminated  in  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
copies,  and  was  read  by  millions  with  lively  emotion.  From 
this  time  onward  the  public  opinion  of  the  Western  nations 
placed  him  in  the  first  rank  of  living  authors  :  his  name  was 
in  everyone's  mouth,  and  universal  sympathy  turned  not  only 
towards  his  early  writings  (which  had  remained  unnoticed  for 
decades),  but  also  to  his  person  and  his  career,  and  he  became, 
as  it  were,  in  a  night  what  he  unquestionably  is  now  in  the 
evening  of  his  life — one  of  the  chief  representative  figures  of  the 
departing  century.  Yet  the  Kreutzer  Sonata  stands,  as  a  poetic 
creation,  not  so  high  as  most  of  his  older  works.  A  fame  which 
was  not  gained  by  War  and  Peace,  The  Cossacks,  Anna  Kare- 
nina,  etc.,  nor,  indeed,  until  long  after  the  appearance  of  these 
rich  creations,  but  came  at  one  stroke  through  the  Kreutzer 
Sonata,  cannot  therefore  depend  either  solely  or  principally  on 
aesthetic  excellence.  The  history  of  this  fame  shows  conse- 
quently that  Tolstoi  the  novelist  is  not  the  cause  of  Tolstoism. 

In  fact,  the  tendency  of  mind  so  named  is  far  more — perhaps 
wholly  and  entirely — traceable  to  Tolstoi  the  philosopher.  The 
philosopher  is,  therefore,  incomparably  more  important  to  our 
inquiry  than  the  novelist. 

Tolstoi  has  formed  certain  views  on  the  position  of  man  in  the 
world,  on  his  relation  to  collective  humanity,  and  on  the  aim  of 
his  life,  which  are  visible  in  all  his  creations,  but  which  he  has 
also  set  forth  connectedly  in  several  theoretic  works,  especially 
in  My  Confession,  My  Faith,  A  Short  Exposition  of  the  Gospel, 
and  About  my  Life.  These  views  are  but  little  complicated,  and 
can  be  condensed  in  a  few  words :  the  individual  is  nothing  ;  the 
species  is  everything ;  the  individual  lives  in  order  to  do  his  fellow- 
creatures  good  ;  thought  and  inquiry  are  great  evils ;  science  is 
perdition  ;  faith  is  salvation. 

How  he  arrived  at  these  results  is  related  in  My  Confessions  : 
'  I  lost  my  faith  early.  I  lived  for  a  long  time  like  everyone 
else,  in  the  frivolities  of  life.  I  wrote  books,  and  taught,  like 
everyone  else,  what  I  did  not  know.  Then  the  Sphinx  began  to 
follow  me  more  and  more  ruthlessly :  "  Guess  my  problem  or  I 
will  tear  thee  to  pieces."  Science  has  explained  absolutely 
nothing  to  me.  In  answer  to  my  everlasting  question,  the  only 
one  which  means  anything,  "Wherefore  am  I  alive?"  Science 
replied  by  teaching  me  things  that  were  indifferent  to  me. 
Science  only  said  .  .  . :  "  Life  is  a  senseless  evil."  I  wanted  to 
kill  myself.  Finally  I  had  a  fancy  to  see  how  the  vast  majority 
of  men  lived  who,  unlike  us  of  the  so-called  upper  classes,  who 
give  ourselves  up  to  pondering   and   investigation,   work   and 


MYSTICISM  149 

suffer,  and  are,  nevertheless,  quiet  and  clear  In  their  minds  over 
the  aim  of  Ufe.  I  understood  that  to  live  like  these  men  one 
must  return  to  their  simple  beliefs,' 

If  this  train  of  thought  is  seriously  considered,  it  will  be  recog- 
nised at  once  as  nonsensical.  The  question,  '  Wherefore  am  I 
alive  ?'  is  incorrectly  and  superficially  put.  It  tacitly  presupposes 
the  idea  of  finality  in  nature,  and  it  is  just  upon  this  presuppo- 
sition that  the  mind,  thirsting  earnestly  for  truth  and  knowledge, 
has  to  exercise  its  criticism. 

In  order  to  ask,  '  What  is  the  aim  of  our  life  }'  we  must  take 
for  granted,  above  all,  that  our  life  has  a  definite  aim,  and  since 
it  is  only  a  particular  phenomenon  in  the  universal  life  of  nature, 
in  the  evolution  of  our  earth,  of  our  solar  system,  of  all  solar 
systems,  this  assumption  includes  in  itself  the  wider  one,  that 
the  universal  life  of  Nature  has  a  definite  aim.  This  assumption, 
again,  necessarily  presupposes  the  rule  of  a  conscious,  prescient, 
and  guiding  mind  over  the  universe.  For  what  is  an  aim  ? 
The  fore-ordained  effect  in  the  future  of  forces  active  in  the 
present.  The  aim  exercises  an  influence  on  these  forces  in 
pointing  out  to  them  a  direction,  and  is  thus  itself  a  force.  It 
cannot,  however,  exist  objectively,  in  time  and  space,  because 
then  it  would  cease  to  be  an  aim  and  become  a  cause,  z'.e.,  a  force 
fitting  in  with  the  general  mechanism  of  the  forces  of  nature, 
and  all  the  speculation  concerning  the  aim  would  fall  to  the 
ground.  But  if  it  is  not  objective,  if  it  does  not  exist  in 
time  and  space,  it  must,  in  order  to  be  conceivable,  exist  some- 
where, virtually,  as  idea,  as  a  plan  and  design.  But  that  which 
contains  a  design,  a  thought,  a  plan,  we  name  conscious- 
ness ;  and  a  consciousness  that  can  conceive  a  plan  of  the 
universe,  and  for  its  realization  designedly  uses  the  forces  of 
nature,  is  synonymous  with  God.  If  a  man,  however,  believes 
in  a  God,  he  loses  at  once  the  right  to  raise  the  question,  'Where- 
fore am  I  alive.'''  Since  it  is  in  that  case  an  insolent  presump- 
tion, an  effort  of  small,  weak  man  to  look  over  God's  shoulder, 
to  spy  out  God's  plan,  to  aspire  to  the  height  of  omniscience. 
But  neither  is  it  in  such  a  case  necessary,  since  a  God  without 
the  highest  wisdom  cannot  be  conceived,  and  if  He  has  devised 
a  plan  for  the  world,  this  is  certain  to  be  perfect,  all  its  parts  are 
in  harmony,  and  the  aim  to  which  every  co-operator,  from  the 
smallest  to  the  greatest,  will  devote  himself  is  the  best  con- 
ceivable. Thus,  man  can  live  in  complete  rest  and  confidence  in 
the  impulses  and  forces  implanted  in  him  by  God,  because  he,  in 
every  case,  fulfils  a  high  and  worthy  destiny  by  co-operating  in 
a,  to  him,  unknown  Divine  plan  of  the  world. 

If,  on  the  other  hand,  there  is  no  belief  in  a  God,  it  is  also 
impossible  to  form  a  conception  of  the  aim,  for  then  the  aim, 
existing  in  consciousness  only  as  an  idea,  in  the  absence  of  a 


I50  DEGENERATION 

universal  consciousness,  has  no  locus  for  its  existence ;  there  is 
no  place  for  it  in  Nature.  But  if  there  is  no  aim,  then  one 
cannot  ask  the  question,  *  Wherefore  am  I  alive  ?'  Then  life 
has  not  a  predetermined  aim,  but  only  causes.  We  have  then  - 
to  concern  ourselves  only  with  these  causes — at  least,  with  the 
more  proximate,  and  which  are  accessible  to  our  examination, 
since  the  remote,  and  especially  the  first,  causes  elude  our 
cognition.  Our  question  must  then  run,  '  Why  do  we  live  ? 
and  we  find  the  answer  to  it  without  difiiculty.  We  live, 
because  we  stand,  like  the  rest  of  cognizable  Nature,  under  the 
universal  law  of  causality.  This  is  a  mechanical  law,  which 
requires  no  predetermined  plan,  and  no  design,  consequently 
also  no  universal  consciousness.  According  to  this  law  present 
phenomena  are  grounded  on  the  past,  not  on  the  future.  We 
live  because  we  are  engendered  by  our  parents,  because  we 
have  received  from  them  a  definite  measure  of  force,  which 
makes  it  possible  for  us  to  resist  for  a  given  time  the  influence 
upon  us  of  Nature's  forces  of  dissolution.  How  our  life  is 
shaped  is  determined  by  the  constant  interaction  of  our  inherited 
organic  forces  and  of  our  environment.  Our  life  is,  therefore, 
objectively  viewed,  the  necessary  result  of  the  law -governed 
activity  of  the  mechanical  forces  of  Nature.  Subjectively  it 
includes  a  quantity  of  pleasures  and  pains.  We  feel  as  pleasure 
the  satisfaction  of  our  organic  impulses,  as  pain  their  fruitless 
struggles  for  satisfaction.  In  a  sound  organism,  possessing  a 
high  capacity  for  adaptation,  those  appetites  only  attain  develop- 
ment, the  satisfaction  of  which  is  possible — at  least,  to  a  certain 
degree — and  is  accompanied  by  no  bad  consequences  for  the 
individual.  In  such  a  life  pleasure  consequently  prevails 
decidedly  over  pain,  and  he  looks  upon  existence,  not  as  an 
evil,  but  as  a  great  good.  In  the  organism  deranged  by  disease 
degenerate  appetites  exist  which  cannot  be  satisfied,  or  of  which 
the  gratification  injures  or  destroys  the  individual,  or  the 
degenerate  organism  is  too  weak  or  too  inapt  to  gratify  the 
legitimate  impulses.  In  his  life  pain  necessarily  predominates, 
and  he  looks  upon  existence  as  an  evil.  My  interpretation 
of  the  riddle  of  life  is  nearly  related  to  the  well-known  theory 
of  eudsemonism,  but  it  is  founded  on  a  biological,  not  a 
metaphysical,  basis.  It  explains  optimism  and  pessimism 
simply  as  an  adequate  or  inadequate  vitality,  as  the  existence 
or  absence  of  adaptability,  as  health  or  illness.  Unprejudiced 
observation  of  life  shows  that  the  whole  of  mankind  stands 
knowingly  or  unknowingly  at  the  same  philosophical  stand- 
point. Men  live  willingly,  and  rather  quietly  happy  than  sadly, 
so  long  as  existence  affords  them  gratification.  If  the  suffer- 
ings are  stronger  than  the  feeling  of  pleasure  conferred  by 
the  satisfaction  of  the  first  and  most  important  of  all  organic 


MYSTICISM 


151 


impulses — the  impulse  of  life  or  self-preservation — then  they  do 
not  hesitate  to  kill  themselves.  When  Prince  Bismarck  once 
said,  '  I  do  not  know  why  I  should  bear  all  the  troubles  of  life, 
if  I  were  not  able  to  believe  in  a  God  and  a  future  life,'  it  only 
shows  that  he  is  insufficiently  acquainted  with  the  progress  of 
human  thought  since  Hamlet,  who  raised  somewhat  the  same 
question.  He  bears  the  troubles  of  life  because,  and  as  long  as, 
he  can  bear  them,  and  he  throws  them  down  infallibly  at  the 
moment  in  which  his  strength  is  no  longer  adequate  to  carry 
them.  The  unbeliever  lives  and  is  happy,  so  long  as  the  sweets 
of  life  weigh  down  the  scale,  and  for  this  reason  also  the  believer, 
as  experience  daily  teaches,  will  commit  suicide  if  he  sees  his 
balance  of  life's  account  yielding  a  deficit  of  satisfaction.  The 
arguments  of  religion  have  undoubtedly  in  the  mind  of  the 
believer,  as  have  the  arguments  of  duty  and  honour  in  the  mind 
of  the  unbeliever,  a  convincing  force,  and  must  likewise  be  taken 
into  account  as  so  many  assets.  Nevertheless  they  have  only  a 
limited,  if  high  value,  and  can  counterbalance  their  own  equivalent 
of  suffering  only,  and  no  more. 

From  these  considerations  it  follows  that  the  terrible  question — 
*  Wherefore  am  I  alive  ?' — which  nearly  drove  Tolstoi  to  suicide, 
is  to  be  answered  satisfactorily  and  without  difficulty.  The 
believer,  who  accepts  the  fact  that  his  life  must  have  an  aim, 
will  live  according  to  his  inclinations  and  powers,  and  tell  himself 
that  he  performs  correctly,  in  this  way,  his  allotted  portion  of 
the  world's  work  without  knowing  its  final  aim  ;  as  also  a 
soldier,  at  that  point  of  the  field  of  battle  where  he  is  placed, 
does  his  duty  willingly,  without  having  any  notion  of  the  general 
progress  of  the  fight,  and  of  its  significance  for  the  whole 
campaign.  The  unbeliever,  who  is  convinced  that  his  life  is  a 
particular  instance  of  the  universal  life  of  Nature,  that  his 
individuality  has  blossomed  into  existence  as  a  necessary  law- 
governed  operation  of  eternal  organic  forces,  knows  also  very 
well  not  only  '  wherefore,'  but  also  '  what  for,'  he  is  alive ;  he 
lives  because,  and  as  long  as,  life  is  to  him  a  source  of  gratifica- 
tion— that  is  to  say,  of  joy  and  happiness. 

Has  Tolstoi  found  any  other  answer  by  his  desperate  seeking  ? 
No.  The  explanation  which  his  pondering  and  searching  did 
not  off'er  him  was,  as  we  have  seen  in  the  above-quoted  passage 
in  Mj/  Confessions,  given  him  by  'the  enormous  majority  of 
mankind,  who  .  .  .  labour  and  suffer,  and,  nevertheless,  are 
quiet  and  clear  in  their  minds  as  to  the  aim  of  life.'  '  I  under- 
stood,' he  adds,  '  that  one  must  return  to  their  simple  faith  to 
live  as  these  men  do.'  The  conclusion  is  arbitrary,  and  is  a 
saltum  of  mystic  thought.  '  The  masses  live  quietly,  and  are 
clear  in  their  minds  as  to  the  aim  of  life,'  not  because  they  have 
a  '  simple  faith,'  but  because  they  are  healthy,  because  they  like 


152  DEGENERATION 

to  feel  themselves  alive,  because  life  gives  them,  in  every  organic 
function,  in  every  manifestation  of  their  powers,  at  every 
moment,  some  gratification.  The  '  simple  faith '  is  the  accidental 
accompanying  phenomenon  of  this  natural  optimism.  No  doubt 
the  majority  of  the  uneducated  classes,  who  represent  the 
healthy  portion  of  mankind,  and  therefore  certainly  rejoice  in 
life,  receive,  during  childhood,  instruction  in  religious  faith,  and 
afterwards  only  rarely  rectify  through  their  own  thought  the 
errors  which,  for  state  reasons,  have  been  imparted  to  them  ; 
but  their  unthinking  belief  is  a  consequence  of  their  poverty  and 
ignorance,  like  their  bad  clothing,  insufficient  food,  and  insanitary 
dwellings.  To  say  that  the  majority  '  live  quietly,  and  are 
clear  in  their  minds  as  to  the  aim  of  life,' because  they 'have 
simple  faith,'  is  quite  as  logical  a  sequitur  as  the  assertion  that 
this  majority  '  live  quietly,  and  are  clear  in  their  minds  as  to  the 
aim  of  life'  because  they  chiefly  eat  potatoes,  or  because  they 
live  in  cellars,  or  because  they  seldom  take  baths. 

Tolstoi  has  rightly  noticed  the  fact  that  the  majority  do  not 
share  his  pessimism,  and  rejoice  in  their  life,  but  he  has  explained 
it  mystically.  Instead  of  recognising  that  the  optimism  of  the 
masses  is  simply  a  sign  of  their  vitality,  he  traces  it  to  their 
belief,  and  then  seeks  in  faith  the  clue  to  the  aim  of  his  exist- 
ence. '  I  was  led  to  Christianity,'  he  writes  in  another  book,* 
'  neither  through  theological  nor  historical  research,  but  by  the 
circumstance  that  when,  at  fifty  years  of  age,  I  asked  myself 
and  the  wise  among  my  acquaintance  what  myself  and  my  life 
might  signify,  and  received  the  answer:  "  You  are  an  accidental 
concatenation  of  parts  ;  there  is  no  significance  in  life ;  life  as 
such  is  an  evil  " — I  was  then  brought  to  despair,  and  wished  to 
kill  myself  Remembering,  however,  that  formerly,  in  childhood, 
when  I  believed,  life  had  a  meaning  for  me,  and  that  the  people 
about  me  who  believe — the  greater  number  being  men  un- 
spoilt by  riches — both  believe  and  lead  real  lives,  I  doubted  the 
accuracy  of  the  answer  which  had  been  given  me  by  the  wisdom 
of  my  circle,  and  endeavoured  to  understand  that  answer  which 
Christianity  gives  to  men  who  lead  a  real  life.'f 

He  found  this  answer  'in  the  Gospels,  that  source  of  light.' 
'  It  was  quite  the  same  thing  to  me,'  he  goes  on  to  say,  '  whether 
Jesus  was  God  or  not  God  ;  whether  the  fioly  Ghost  proceeded 
from  the  one  or  the  other.  It  was  likewise  neither  necessary 
nor  important  for  me  to  know  when  and  by  whom  the  Gospel, 
or  any  one  of  the  parables,  was  composed,  and  whether  they 
could  be  ascribed  to  Christ  or  not.     What  to  me  was  important 

*  Count  Leo  Tolstoi,  A  Short  Expositio7i  of  the  Gospel.  From  the 
Russian,    by    Paul    Lauterbach.     Leipzig  :    Reclam's    Universal-Bibliothek, 

P-  ^3- 

X  L.  Tolstoi,  Short  Exposition  of  the  Gospel.,  p.  13. 


MYSTICISM  153 

was  that  Light,  which  for  eighteen  hundred  years  was  the  Light 
of  the  World,  and  is  that  Light  still,  but  what  name  was  to 
be  given  to  the  source  of  this  Light,  or  what  were  its  com- 
ponent parts,  and  by  whom  it  was  lighted,  was  quite  indifferent 
to  me.' 

Let  us  appraise  this  process  of  thought  in  a  mystical  mind. 
The  Gospel  is  the  source  of  truth  ;  it  is,  however,  quite  the  same 
thing  whether  the  Gospel  is  God's  revelation  or  man's  work,  and 
whether  it  contains  the  genuine  tradition  of  the  life  of  Christ, 
or  whether  it  was  written  down  hundreds  of  years  after  his 
death  on  the  basis  of  obscured  apd  distorted  traditions.  Tolstoi 
himself  feels  that  he  here  makes  a  great  error  of  thought,  but  he 
deceives  himself  over  and  out  of  it  in  genuine  mystical  fashion, 
in  that  he  makes  use  of  a  simile,  and  pretends  that  his  image 
was  the  matter-of-fact  truth.  He  speaks,  namely,  of  the  Gospel 
as  a  light,  and  says  it  is  indifferent  to  him  what  that  light  is 
called,  and  of  what  it  consists.  This  is  correct  if  it  concerns  a 
real,  material  light,  but  the  Gospel  is  only  figuratively  a  light, 
and  can  obviously,  therefore,  be  compared  to  a  light  only  if  it 
contains  the  truth.  Whether  it  does  contain  the  truth  should 
first  be  decided  by  inquiry.  Should  inquiry  result  in  establish- 
ing that  it  is  man's  work,  and  consists  only  in  unauthenticated 
traditions,  then  it  would  evidently  be  no  receptacle  of  truth, 
and  one  could  not  any  longer  compare  it  with  light,  and  the 
magnificent  image  with  which  Tolstoi  cuts  short  inquiry  into 
the  source  of  the  light  would  v^anish  into  air.  While,  therefore, 
Tolstoi  calls  the  Gospel  a  light,  and  denies  the  necessity  of 
following  up  its  origin,  he  forthwith  takes  as  proven  the  very 
thing  which  is  to  be  proved,  namely,  that  the  Gospel  is  a  light. 
We  know  already,  however,  the  peculiarity  of  mystics  to  found 
all  their  conclusions  on  the  most  senseless  premises,  alleging 
contempt  of  reality  and  resisting  all  reasonable  verification  of 
their  starting-point.  I  only  remind  the  reader  of  Rossetti's 
sentence,  '  What  does  it  matter  to  me  whether  the  sun  revolves 
round  the  earth,  or  the  earth  round  the  sun  ?'  and  of  Mallarme's 
expression,  '  The  world  is  made  in  order  to  lead  to  a  beautiful 
book.' 

One  can  read  for  one's  self  in  his  Short  Exposition  how 
Tolstoi  handles  the  Gospel,  so  that  it  may  give  him  the  required 
explanation.  He  does  not  trouble  himself  in  the  least  about 
the  literal  sense  of  the  Scriptures,  but  puts  into  them  what  is  in 
his  own  head.  The  Gospel  which  he  has  so  recast  has  about  as 
much  resemblance  to  the  canonical  Scriptures  as  the  Physiogno- 
mische  Fragmente,  which  Jean  Paul's  '  merry  little  schoolmaster, 
Maria  Wuz  in  Auenthal,'  '  drew  out  of  his  own  head,'  had  with 
Lavater's  work  of  the  same  title.  This  Gospel  of  his  taught 
him  concerning  the  importance  of  life  as  follows  :*  '  Men  imagine 

*  Tolstoi,  Short  Exposition,  etc.,  p.  172. 


154  DEGENERATION 

that  they  are  isolated  beings,  each  one  shaping  his  own  life  as 
he  wills.  This,  however,  is  a  delusion.  The  only  true  life  is 
that  which  acknowledges  the  will  of  the  Father  as  the  source  of 
life.  This  unity  of  life  my  teaching  reveals,  and  represents  that 
life,  not  as  separate  shoots,  but  as  a  single  tree  on  which  all  the 
shoots  grow.  He  only  who  lives  in  the  will  of  the  Father,  like 
a  shoot  on  the  tree,  has  life  ;  but  he  who  would  live  according 
to  his  own  will,  like  a  severed  shoot,  dies.'  He  has  already  said 
that  the  Father  is  synonymous  with  God,  and  that  God,  who 
*  is  the  eternal  origin  of  all  things,'  is  synonymous  with  '  Spirit.' 
If,  then,  this  passage  has  any  sense  at  all,  it  can  only  be  that 
the  whole  of  Nature  is  a  single  living  being,  that  every  single 
living  being,  therefore  also  every  human  being,  is  a  portion  of 
universal  life,  and  that  this  universal  life  is  God.  This  teaching 
is,  however,  not  invented  by  Tolstoi.  It  has  a  name  in  the 
history  of  philosophy,  and  is  called  Pantheism.  It  is  shadowed 
forth  in  Buddhism*  and  Greek  Hylozoism,  and  was  elaborated 
by  Spinoza.  It  is  certainly  not  contained  in  the  Gospel,  and  it 
is  a  definite  denial  of  Christianity  which,  let  its  dogmas  be  ever 
so  rationalistically  interpreted  and  tortured,  can  never  give  up 
its  doctrine  of  a  personal  God  and  the  Divine  nature  of  Christ 
without  ridding  itself  of  its  whole  religious  import  and  its  vitally 
important  organs,  and  ceasing  to  be  a  creed. 

Thus  we  see  that,  though  Tolstoi  supposes  he  has  succeeded 
in  his  attempt  to  explain  life's  problems  by  the  Christian  faith 
of  the  masses,  he  has,  on  the  contrary,  fallen  into  its  very 
opposite,  namely,  Pantheism.  The  reply  of  the  '  wise,'  that  he 
'  is  an  accidental  concatenation  of  parts,  and  that  there  is  no 
significance  in  life,'  'drove  him  almost  to  suicide';  he  is,  on  the 
contrary,  quite  tranquil  in  the  knowledge  that-|-  '  the  true  life  is 
.  .  .  not  the  life  which  is  past,  nor  that  which  will  be,  but  is  the 
life  which  now  is,  that  which  confronts  everyone  at  the  present 
minute  '  ;  he  expressly  denies  in  My  Religion  the  resurrection  of 
the  body  and  the  individuality  of  the  soul,  and  does  not  notice 
that  the  teaching  which  contents  him  is  quite  the  same  as  that 
of  the  *  wise,'  who  '  almost  drove  him  into  suicide.'  For  if  life 
exists  only  in  the  present,  it  can  have  no  aim,  since  this  would 
refer  to  the  future  ;  and  if  the  body  does  not  rise  again,  and 
the  soul  has  no  individual  existence,  then  the  '  wise  '  are  quite 
right  to  call  the  human  being  (certainly  not  accidental,  but 
necessary,  because  causally  conditioned)  '  a  concatenation  of 
parts.' 

Tolstoi's  theory  of  life,  the  fruit  of  the  despairing  mental 
labour  of  his  whole  life,  is  therefore  nothing  but  a  haze,  a  failure 
to  comprehend  his  own    questions   and    answers,    and    hollow 

*  More  accurately,  in  Vedantism. — Translator. 
f  Tolstoi,  Short  Exposition,  etc.,  p.  128. 


MYSTICISM  155 

verbiage.  His  ethics — on  which  he  himself  lays  a  far  greater 
stress  than  on  his  philosophy — is  not  in  much  better  case  than 
the  latter.  He  comprises  them*  in  five  laws,  of  which  the 
fourth  is  the  most  important :  '  Do  not  resist  evil  ;  suffer  wrong, 
and  do  more  than  men  ask ;  and  so  judge  not,  nor  suffer  to  be 
judged.  .  .  .'  To  avenge  one's  self  only  teaches  to  avenge 
one's  self.  His  admirer,  M.  de  Vogii^,  expresses  Tolstoi's  moral 
philosophy  in  this  form  if  '  Resist  not  evil,  judge  not,  kill  not. 
Consequently  no  courts  of  justice,  no  armies,  no  prisons,  no 
public  or  private  reprisals.  No  wars  nor  judgments.  The 
world's  law  is  the  struggle  for  existence  ;  the  law  of  Christ  is  the 
sacrifice  of  one's  own  existence  for  others.' 

Is  it  still  necessary  to  point  out  the  unreasonableness  of  these 
ethics?  It  is  obvious  to  sound  common-sense  without  saying 
any  more.  If  the  murderer  had  no  longer  to  fear  the  gallows, 
and  the  thief  the  prison,  throat-cutting  and  stealing  would  be 
soon  by  far  the  most  generally  adopted  trade.  It  is  so  much 
more  convenient  to  filch  baked  bread  and  ready-made  boots 
than  to  rack  one's  self  at  the  plough  and  in  the  workshop. 
If  society  should  cease  to  take  care  that  crime  should  be  a 
dangerous  risk,  what  would  there  be,  forsooth,  to  deter  wicked 
men,  who  certainly  exist,  according  to  Tolstoi's  assumption, 
from  surrendering  themselves  to  their  basest  impulses ;  and 
how  could  the  great  mass  of  indiff"erent  people  be  restrained, 
who  have  no  pronounced  leaning  either  for  good  or  for  evil,  from 
imitating  the  example  of  the  criminal  ?  Certainly  not  Tolstoi's 
own  teaching  that  '  the  true  life  is  life  in  the  present'  The  first 
active  measures  of  society,  for  the  sake  of  which  individuals 
originally  formed  themselves  into  a  society,  is  the  protection 
of  their  members  against  those  who  are  diseased  with  homicidal 
mania,  and  against  the  parasites — another  unhealthy  variation 
from  the  normal  human  type — who  can  only  live  by  the  work 
of  others,  and  who,  to  appease  all  their  lusts,  unscrupulously 
overpower  every  human  being  who  crosses  their  path.  In- 
dividuals with  anti- social  impulses  would  soon  be  in  the 
majority  if  the  healthy  members  did  not  subdue  them,  and 
make  it  difficult  for  them  to  thrive.  Were  they  once  to  become 
the  stronger,  society,  and  soon  mankind  itself,  would  of  a 
necessity  be  devoted  to  destruction. 

In  addition  to  the  negative  precept  that  one  should  not  resist 
evil,  Tolstoi's  moral  philosophy  has  yet  a  positive  precept,  viz. :  we 
ought  to  love  all  men  ;  to  sacrifice  everything,  even  one's  own 
life,  for  them  ;  to  do  good  to  them  where  we  can.  '  It  is 
necessary  to  understand  that  man,  if  he  does  good,  only  does 
that  to  which  he  is  bound — what  he  cannot  leave  undone.  .  .  . 
If  he  gives  up  his  carnal  life  for  the  good,  he  does  nothing  for 

*  JS/iori  Exposition^  p.  60.  f  De  Vogiid,  op.  cit.,  p.  335. 


156  DEGENERATION 

which  he  need  be  thanked  and  praised.  ,  .  .  Only  those  live 
who  do  good '  {Short  Exposition  of  the  Gospel).  '  Not  is  alms- 
giving effectual,  but  brotherly  sharing.  Whoever  has  two  cloaks 
should  give  one  to  him  who  has  none  '  ( What  ought  one  to  Do  ?). 
This  distinction  between  charity  and  sharing  cannot  be  main- 
tained in  earnest.  Every  gift  that  a  man  receives  from  some 
other  man  without  work,  without  reciprocal  service,  is  an  alms, 
and  as  such  is  deeply  immoral.  The  sick,  the  old,  the  weak, 
those  who  cannot  work,  must  be  supported  and  tended  by  their 
fellow-creatures  ;  it  is  their  duty,  and  it  is  also  their  natural 
impulse.  But  to  give  to  men  capable  of  working  is  under  all 
circumstances  a  sin  and  a  self-deception.  If  men  capable  of 
work  find  no  work,  this  is  obviously  attributable  to  some  defect 
in  the  economical  structure  of  society;  and  it  is  the  duty  of 
each  individual  to  assist  earnestly  in  removing  this  defect,  but 
not  to  facilitate  its  continuance  by  pacifying  for  awhile  the 
victim  of  the  defective  circumstances  by  a  gift.  Charity  has  in 
this  case  merely  the  aim  of  deadening  the  conscience  of  the 
donor,  and  furnishing  him  with  an  excuse  why  he  should  shirk 
his  duty  of  curing  recognised  evils  in  the  constitution  of  society. 
Should,  however,  the  capable  man  be  averse  to  labour,  then 
charity  spoils  him  completely,  and  kills  in  him  entirely  any 
inclination  to  put  his  powers  into  action,  which  alone  keeps 
the  organism  healthy  and  moral.  Thus  alms,  extended  to  an 
able-bodied  man,  degrades  both  the  donor  and  the  recipient, 
and  operates  like  poison  on  the  feeling  of  duty  and  the  morality 
of  both. 

But  the  love  of  our  neighbour  which  exhibits  itself  in  alms- 
giving, or  even  brotherly  sharing,  is,  properly  speaking,  no  such 
love  if  we  look  at  it  closely.  Love  in  its  simplest  and  most 
original  form  (I  speak  here  not  of  sexual  love,  but  of  general 
sympathy  for  some  other  living  being,  and  that  need  not  even  be 
a  human  being)  is  a  selfish  impulse,  which  seeks  only  its  own 
gratification,  not  that  of  the  beloved  being ;  in  its  higher 
development,  on  i:he  contrary,  it  is  principally,  or  wholly,  bent 
upon  the  happiness  of  the  beloved  being,  and  forgets  itself. 
The  healthy  man,  who  has  no  anti-social  impulses,  enjoys  the 
company  of  other  men ;  he  therefore  avoids  almost  uncon- 
sciously those  actions  which  would  cause  his  fellow-creatures  to 
avoid  him,  and  he  does  that  which,  without  costing  himself  too 
much  effort,  is  sufficiently  pleasant  to  his  fellows  to  attract 
them  to  him.  In  the  same  healthy  man  the  idea  of  sufferings, 
even  when  they  are  not  his  own,  produces  pain,  which  is  always 
greater  or  less  according  to  the  degree  of  excitability  of  his 
brain  ;  the  more  active  the  idea  of  suffering,  the  more  violent 
is  the  accompanying  feeling  of  pain.  Because  the  ideas  excited 
by  direct  sense-impressions  are  the  mobt  vivid,  the  sufferings 


MYSTICISM  IS7 

which  he  sees  with  his  own  eyes  cause  him  the  sharpest  pain, 
and  in  order  to  escape  from  this,  he  makes  suitable  efforts 
to  put  an  end  to  this  extraneous  suffering,  or  often,  it  is 
true,  only  not  to  witness  it.  This  degree  of  love  to  our  neigh- 
bour is,  as  was  said  above,  pure  self-love ;  it  merely  aims  at 
averting  pain  from  self,  and  at  increasing  one's  own  feelings  of 
pleasure.  The  love  of  our  neighbour,  on  the  contrary,  which 
Tolstoi  obviously  wishes  to  preach,  claims  to  be  unselfish.  It 
contemplates  the  diminution  of  the  sufferings,  and  the  increase 
of  the  happiness,  of  others  ;  it  can  no  longer  be  exercised  in- 
stinctively, for  it  demands  an  exact  knowledge  of  the  conditions 
of  life,  and  the  feelings  and  wishes  of  others,  and  the  acquisition 
of  this  knowledge  presupposes  observation,  reflection,  and 
judgment.  One  must  earnestly  consider  what  is  really  needful 
and  good  for  one's  neighbour.  One  must  come  out  of  one's 
self,  must  set  aside  one's  own  habits  and  ideas  completely,  and 
strive  to  slip  into  the  skin  of  him  to  whom  one  would  show  love. 
One  must  regard  the  intended  benefit  with  the  other's  eyes,  and 
feel  with  his  nature,  and  not  with  one's  own.  Does  Tolstoi  do 
this }  His  novels,  in  which  he  shows  his  alleged  love  between 
fellow-men  living  and  working,  prove  the  exact  contrary. 

In  the  tale  Albert^  Delessow  takes  up  a  sickly,  strolling 
violin-player  out  of  admiration  for  his  great  talent,  and  out  of 
pity  for  his  poverty  and  helplessness.  But  the  unhappy  artist 
is  a  drunkard.  Delessow  locks  him  up  in  his  dwelling,  places 
him  under  the  care  of  his  servant  Sachar,  and  keeps  him  from 
intoxicating  drinks.  On  the  first  day  Albert  the  artist  submits, 
but  is  very  depressed  and  out  of  temper.  On  the  second  day 
he  is  already  casting  '  malignant  glances '  at  his  benefactor. 
'  He  seemed  to  fear  Delessow,  and  whenever  their  eyes  met  a 
deadly  terror  was  depicted  on  his  face.  .  .  .  He  did  not  answer 
the  questions  which  were  put  to  him.'  Finally,  on  the  third 
day  Albert  rebels  against  the  restraint  to  which  he  believes 
himself  subjected.  *  You  have  no  right  to  shut  me  up  here,'  he 
cries.  *  My  passport  is  in  order.  I  have  stolen  nothing  from 
you  ;  you  can  search  me.  I  will  go  to  the  superintendent  of 
police.'  The  servant  Sachar  tries  to  appease  him.  Albert 
becomes  more  and  more  enraged,  and  suddenly  'shrieks  out 
at  the  top  of  his  voice :  "  Police !" '  Delessow  allows  him  to 
depart.  Albert  'goes  out  of  the  door  without  taking  leave,  and 
constantly  muttering  to  himself  incomprehensible  words.' 

Delessow  had  taken  Albert  home,  because  the  sight  was  pain- 
ful to  him  of  the  poorly-clad,  sickly,  pale  artist,  trembling  in  the 
cold  of  a  Russian  winter.  When  he  saw  him  in  his  warm  house, 
before  a  well-spread  table,  in  his  own  handsome  dressing-gown, 

*  L.  Tolstoi,  Gesatnmelte  Werke,  Berlin,  1891,  Band  II.  :  Novels  atid 
Short  Tales,  part  i. 


158  DEGENERATION 

Delessow  felt  contented  and  happy.  But  was  Albert  also  con- 
tented ?  Tolstoi  testifies  that  Albert  feels  himself  much  more 
unhappy  in  the  new  position  than  in  the  old — so  unhappy  that 
very  soon  he  could  not  bear  it,  and  freed  himself  from  it  with  an 
outburst  of  fury.  To  whom_,  then,  had  Delessow  done  good,  to 
himself  or  to  Albert  ? 

In  this  narrative  a  mentally  diseased  man  is  depicted,  and,  it 
must  be  admitted,  upon  such  a  one  a  benefit  has  frequently 
to  be  forcibly  pressed,  which  he  does  not  understand  or  appre- 
ciate as  such,  though,  of  course,  in  a  manner  more  consistent, 
persistent,  and  prudent  than  Delessow's.  In  another  story  in  the 
same  volume,  however,  From  the  Diary  of  the  Prince  Nechljudow, 
Lucerne,  the  absurdity  of  love  for  one's  fellow-creature  which  does 
not  trouble  itself  about  the  real  needs  of  the  fellow-creature  is 
brought  out  more  vividly  and  without  any  excuse. 

One  glorious  evening  in  July,  in  front  of  the  Schweizer-Hof, 
in  Lucerne,  Prince  Nechljudow  heard  a  street-singer  whose 
songs  touched  and  enraptured  him  deeply.  The  singer  is  a 
poor,  small,  hump-backed  man,  insufficiently  clad  and  looking 
half  starved.  On  all  the  balconies  of  the  sumptuous  hotel  rich 
Englishmen  and  their  wives  are  standing ;  all  have  enjoyed  the 
glorious  singing  of  the  poor  cripple,  but  when  he  takes  off  his 
hat  and  begs  a  small  reward  for  his  artistic  performance,  not 
one  person  throws  even  the  smallest  coin  to  him.  Nechljudow 
falls  into  the  most  violent  excitement.  He  is  beside  himself 
over  the  fact  that  '  the  singer  could  beg  three  times  for  a  gift, 
and  no  one  gave  him  the  smallest  thing,  while  the  greater  num- 
ber laughed  at  him.'  It  seems  to  him  *an  event  which  the 
historian  of  our  times  should  inscribe  in  the  pages  of  history 
with  indelible  letters  of  fire.'  He,  for  his  part,  will  not  be  a 
participator  in  this  unprecedented  sin.  He  hastens  after  the 
poor  devil,  overtakes  him  and  invites  him  to  drink  a  bottle  of 
wine  with  him.  The  singer  accepts.  '  Close  by  is  a  small 
cafe,'  says  he  ;  '  we  can  go  in  there — it  is  a  cheap  one," ' 
he  continued.  *  The  words,  "  a  cheap  one,"  involuntarily 
suggested  the  idea,'  relates  Nechljudow  in  his  diary,  '  not 
to  go  to  a  cheap  cafe,  but  into  the  Schweizer-Hof,  where 
were  the  people  who  had  listened  to  his  singing.  Although 
he  refused  the  Schweizer-Hof  several  times  in  timid  agita- 
tion, because  he  thought  it  was  much  too  grand  there,  I  per- 
sisted in  it.' 

He  leads  the  singer  into  the  splendid  hotel.  Although  he 
appears  in  the  company  of  the  princely  guest,  the  servants  look 
at  the  badly  dressed  vagabond  with  hostile  and  comtemptuous 
glances.  They  show  the  pair  into  the  '  saloon  on  the  left,  the 
drinking-bar  for  the  people.'  The  singer  is  very  much  embar- 
rassed, and  wishes  himself  far  away,  but  he  conceals  his  feelings. 


MYSTICISM  j^^ 

The  Prince  orders  champagne.  The  singer  drinks  without  any- 
real  pleasure  and  without  confidence.  He  talks  about  his  life,  and 
says  suddenly  :  '  I  know  what  you  wish.  You  want  to  make  me 
drunk,  and  then  see  what  can  be  got  out  of  me.'  Nechljudow, 
annoyed  by  the  scornful  and  insolent  demeanour  of  the  servants 
jumps  up  and  goes  with  his  guest  into  the  handsome  dining- 
room  on  the  right  hand,  which  is  set  apart  for  the  visitors.  He 
will  be  served  here  and  nowhere  else.  The  English,  who  are 
present,  indignantly  leave  the  room  ;  the  waiters  are  dismayed, 
but  do  not  venture  to  oppose  the  angry  Russian  Prince.  '  The 
singer  drew  a  very  miserable,  terrified  face,  and  begged  me,  as 
soon  as  possible,  to  go  away,  evidently  not  understanding  why 
I  was  angry  and  what  I  wished.'  The  little  mannikin  'sat  more 
dead  than  alive  '  near  the  Prince,  and  was  very  happy  when 
Nechljudow  finally  dismissed  him. 

It  must  be  noticed  how  extremely  absurdly  Prince  Nechljudow 
behaves  from  beginning  to  end.  He  invites  the  singer  to  a 
bottle  of  wine,  although,  if  he  had  possessed  the  faintest  glimmer 
of  sound  common-sense,  he  might  have  said  to  himself  that  a 
hot  supper,  or,  still  better,  a  five-franc  piece,  would  be  far  more 
necessary  and  useful  to  the  poor  devil  than  a  bottle  of  wine. 
The  singer  proposes  to  go  to  a  modest  restaurant,  where  he 
himself  would  feel  comfortable.  The  Prince  pays  not  the 
smallest  attention  to  this  natural,  reasonable  desire,  but  drags 
the  poor  devil  into  a  leading  hotel,  where  he  feels  extremely 
uncomfortable  in  his  bad  clothing,  under  the  cross-fire  of  the 
waiters'  insolent  and  scornful  looks.  The  Prince  does  not  care 
about  this,  but  orders  champagne,  to  which  the  singer  is  not 
accustomed,  and  which  gives  him  so  little  pleasure  that  the 
thought  occurs  to  him  that  his  noble  host  desires  to  make  sport 
of  him  by  seeing  him  drunk.  Nechljudow  begins  to  squabble 
with  the  waiters,  proceeds  to  the  finest  saloon  of  the  hotel, 
scares  away  the  remaining  guests,  who  do  not  desire  to  sit  at 
supper  with  the  street-singer,  and  does  not  concern  himself 
during  the  whole  of  this  time  about  the  feelings  of  his  guest, 
who  sits  on  hot  coals,  and  would  far  rather  sink  into  the  floor, 
and  who  only  breathes  again  when  his  tei'rible  benefactor  lets 
him  escape  out  of  his  fangs. 

Did  Nechljudow  exercise  neighbourly  love  ?  No.  He  did 
nothing  pleasant  to  the  singer.  He  tormented  him.  He  only 
satisfied  himself.  He  wished  to  revenge  himself  on  the  hard- 
hearted English  people,  with  whom  he  was  furious,  and  he  did 
so  at  the  expense  of  the  poor  devil.  Nechljudow  calls  it  an 
unheard-of  occurrence  that  the  wealthy  Englishmen  should  give 
nothing  to  the  singer,  but  what  he  did  to  the  latter  is  worse.  The 
odious  niggardliness  of  the  English  people  annoyed  the  singer  for 
a  quarter  of  an  hour,  perhaps ;  Nechljudow's  foolish  entertainment 


i6o  DEGENERATION 

tortured  him  for  an  hour.  The  Prince  never  took  the  trouble  to 
consider,  even  for  a  moment,  what  would  be  agreeable  and 
useful  to  the  singer  ;  he  thought  always  of  himself  only,  of  his 
own  feelings,  his  anger,  his  indignation.  This  tender-hearted 
philanthropist  is  a  dangerous,  depraved  egoist. 

The  irr^ational  neighbourly  love  of  the  emotional  mystic  fails 
necessarily  in  its  ostensible  aim,  because  it  does  not  arise  from 
a  knowledge  of  the  true  needs  of  the  neighbour.  The  mystic 
practises  a  sentimental  anthropomorphism.  He  transfers  his 
own  feelings,  without  more  ado,  to  other  beings,  who  feel  quite 
differently  from  himself  He  is  in  a  condition  bitterly  to  com- 
miserate the  moles  because  they  are  condemned  to  brood  in 
perpetual  darkness  in  their  underground  passages,  and  dreams, 
perhaps  with  tears  in  his  eyes,  of  introducing  electric  light  into 
their  burrows.  Because  he,  as  seeing,  would  suffer  severely 
under  the  conditions  of  a  mole's  life,  therefore  this  animal  is 
naturally  to  be  pitied  also,  although  it  is  blind  and  so  does  not 
miss  the  light.  An  anecdote  relates  that  a  child  poured  some 
hot  water  into  the  drawing-room  aquarium  one  winter's  day 
because  it  must  have  been  so  intolerably  cold  for  the  gold-fish  ; 
and  in  comic  papers  there  is  frequently  a  hit  at  the  benevolent 
societies  which  bestow  warm  winter  clothing  on  the  negroes  at 
the  equator.  This  is  Tolstoi's  love  of  one's  neighbour  put  into 
practice. 

One  especial  point  of  his  moral  doctrine  is  the  mortification  of 
the  flesh.  All  sexual  intercourse  is  for  him  unchaste  ;  marriage  is 
quite  as  impure  as  the  loosest  tie.  The  Kreutzer  Sonata  is  the 
most  complete,  and  at  the  same  time  most  celebrated,  embodi- 
ment of  these  propositions.  Pozdnyscheff,  the  murderer  from 
motives  of  jealousy,  says  :*  *  There  is  nothing  pleasant  in  the 
honeymoon  ;  on  the  contrary,  it  is  a  period  of  continual  embar- 
rassment, a  shame,  a  profound  depression,  and,  above  all,  boredom 
— fearful  boredom  !  I  can  only  compare  the  situation  to  that  of 
a  youth  who  is  beginning  to  smoke  :  he  feels  sick,  swallows  his 
saliva,  and  pretends  to  like  it  very  much.  If  the  cigar  is  to  give 
him  any  pleasure,  it  can  only  be  later  on,  as  it  is  with  marriage. 
In  order  to  enjoy  it,  the  married  couple  must  first  accustom 
themselves  to  the  vice.' 

'  How  do  you  mean — to  the  vice  "i  You  are  speaking  of  one 
of  the  most  natural  things — of  an  instinct.' 

'  Natural  thing  ?  An  instinct  .-*  Not  in  the  least.  Allow  me 
to  tell  you  that  I  have  been  brought  to,  and  maintain,  the  oppo- 
site conviction.  I,  the  depraved  and  dissolute,  assert  that  it  is 
something  unnatural.  ...  It  is  an  entirely  unnatural  treatment 
for  any  pure  girl,  just  as  it  would  be  for  a  child.' 

*  Ldon  Tolstoi,  La  Sonaie  h  Kretitzer.  Traduit  du  Russe  par  E.  Halp^rine- 
Kaminsky.     Paris  :  Collection  des  auteurs  c^lebres,  p.  72. 


MYSTICISM  l6i 

Further  on  Pozdnyschefif  develops  the  following  crazy  theory 
of  the  law  of  life  :  *  The  object  of  man,  as  of  humanity  in 
general,  is  happiness,  and  to  attain  it  humanity  has  a  law 
which  must  be  carried  out.  This  law  consists  in  the  union  of 
the  individual  beings  which  compose  humanity.  Human 
passions  only  impede  this  union,  particularly  the  strongest 
and  worst  of  all,  sensual  love,  sexual  pleasures.  When  human 
passions,  especially  the  most  violent,  sensuality,  shall  have  been 
suppressed,  the  union  will  be  accomplished,  and  humanity, 
having  attained  its  end,  will  have  no  further  reason  for  existing.' 
And  his  last  words  are :  *  People  should  understand  that  the 
true  meaning  of  the  words  of  St.  Matthew,  "  Whosoever  looketh 
on  a  woman  to  lust  after  her  hath  committed  adultery  with  her 
already  in  his  heart,"  applies  to  one's  sister,  and  not  only  to  a 
strange  woman,  but  also,  and  above  all,  to  one's  own  wife.' 

Tolstoi,  in  whom,  as  in  every  'higher  degenerate,'  two  natures 
co-exist,  of  whom  the  one  notices  and  judges  the  follies  of  the 
other,  has  yet  a  distinct  feeling  of  the  senselessness  of  his 
Kreutzer  Sonata  theory,  and  he  makes  his  mouthpiece,  Pozdny- 
scheff,  declare*  that  he  '  was  looked  upon  as  cracked.'  But  in 
the  Short  Exposition,  where  Tolstoi  speaks  in  his  own  name, 
he  develops,  if  with  somewhat  more  reserve,  the  same  philo- 
sophy, f  *  The  temptation  to  break  the  seventh  commandment 
is  due  to  the  fact  that  we  believe  woman  to  have  been  created 
for  carnal  pleasure,  and  that,  if  a  man  leave  one  wife  and  take 
another,  he  will  have  more  pleasure.  Not  to  fall  into  this 
temptation,  we  must  remember  that  it  is  not  the  will  of  the 
Father  that  the  man  should  have  pleasure  through  feminine 
charms.  .  .  .'  In  the  story  Family  HappinessX  he  likewise 
explains  that  a  husband  and  wife,  even  if  they  have  married 
from  love,  must  become  enemies  in  their  wedded  life,  and  it  is 
quite  purposeless  to  attempt  a  lasting  cultivation  of  the  original 
feelings. 

It  is  not  indeed  necessary  to  refute  a  theory  which  pours  con- 
tempt on  all  experience,  all  observations  of  nature,  all  institutions 
and  laws  that  have  been  historically  developed,  and  the  known 
aim  of  which  is  the  destruction  of  humanity.  The  thought  of 
assailing  it  with  zeal  could  only  occur  to  men  who  were  them- 
selves more  or  less  deranged.  It  is  sufficient  for  the  healthy 
minded  to  state  it  in  distinct  language ;  it  is  at  once  recognis- 
able, then,  for  what  it  is — insanity. 

For  Tolstoi  the  great  enemy  is  science.  In  My  Confession  he 
is  never  tired  of  accusing  and  abusing  it.  It  is  of  no  use  to 
the  people,  but   only  to   governments    and   to   capitalists.     It 

*  P.  119.  f  Short  Exposition  of  the  Gospel,  p.  140, 

X  Le  Roman  du  Mariage.  Traduit  du  Russe  par  Michel  Delines.  Paris. 
Auteurs  celebres. 


l62  DEGENERATION 

occupies  itself  with  idle  and  vain  things,  such  as  the  inquiries 
into  protoplasm  and  spectrum  analysis,  but  has  never  yet 
thought  of  anything  useful,  e.g:,  '  how  an  axe  and  an  axe-handle 
can  best  be  manufactured  ;  how  a  good  saw  ought  to  be 
fashioned  ;  how  good  bread  can  be  baked,  which  species  of  flour 
is  best  adapted  for  the  purpose,  how  to  manage  the  yeast,  con- 
struct and  heat  the  baking-oven  ;  what  foods  and  beverages  are 
the  most  wholesome  ;  what  mushrooms  are  edible,'  etc. 

He  is,  be  it  noted,  particularly  unfortunate  in  his  examples, 
since,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  every  beginner  takes  up  all  the  sub- 
jects he  enumerates  in  the  scientific  study  of  hygiene  and 
mechanics.  In  accordance  with  his  poetic  nature,  he  has  had  a 
strong  desire  to  embody  his  views  on  science  artistically.  This  he 
has  done  in  the  comedy  The  Fruits  of  Enlightenment.  What  does 
he  scoff  at  in  that .?  At  the  pitiable  blockheads  who  believe  in 
spirits  and,  in  dread  of  death,  hunt  after  bacteria.  Spiritualism, 
and  the  opinions  created  in  uneducated  men  of  the  world  by  the 
imperfectly  understood  news  of  the  day,  conveyed  in  political 
papers,  respecting  infectious  micro-organisms,  are  what  he  takes 
for  science,  and  against  them  he  directs  the  arrows  of  his  satire. 

Real  science  does  not  need  to  be  protected  against  attacks  of 
this  sort.  I  have  already  proved,  in  estimating  the  value  of  the 
reproaches  which  the  neo-Catholic  Symbolists  and  their  critical 
patrons  raised  against  natural  science,  that  all  those  phrases 
were  either  childish  or  dishonest.  The  accusation  of  dishonesty 
cannot  be  brought  against  Tolstoi.  He  believes  what  he  says. 
But  childish  his  complaints  and  his  mockery  certainly  are.  He 
speaks  of  science  as  a  blind  man  of  colour.  He  has  evidently 
no  suspicion  of  its  essence,  its  mission,  its  methods  and  the 
subjects  with  which  it  deals.  He  resembles  Bouvard  and 
Pecuchet,  Flaubert's  two  idiots,  who,  completely  ignorant,  with- 
out teachers  or  guides,  skim  through  a  number  of  books  indis- 
criminately, and  fancy  themselves  in  this  sportive  manner  to 
have  gained  positive  knowledge  ;  this  they  seek  to  apply  with 
the  candour  of  a  trained  Krooboy,  commit,  self-evidently,  one 
hair-raising  stupidity  after  another,  and  then  believe  themselves 
justified  in  sneering  at  science,  and  declaring  it  a  vain  folly  and 
deception.  Flaubert  avenged  himself  on  the  absurdity  of  his 
own  efforts  to  conquer  science  as  a  lieutenant  conquers  a  music- 
hall  singer,  by  tarring  and  feathering  Bouvard  and  Pecuchet. 
Tolstoi  exploded  his  little  fuss  and  fume  on  Science,  that  proud, 
disdainful  beauty,  who  is  only  to  be  won  by  long,  earnest,  un- 
selfish service,  by  lampooning  the  blockheads  of  his  Fruits  of 
Enlightenment,  The  degenerate  Flaubert  and  the  degenerate 
Tolstoi  meet  here  in  the  same  frenzy. 

The  way  to  happiness  is,  according  to  Tolstoi,  the  turning 
away  from  science^  the  renunciation  of  reason,  and  the  return  to 


MYSTICISM  163 

the  life  of  Nature  ;  that  is,  to  agriculture.  *  The  town  must  be 
abandoned,  the  people  must  be  sent  away  from  the  factories  and 
into  the  country  to  work  with  their  hands  ;  the  aim  of  every  man 
should  be  to  satisfy  all  his  wants  himself  {What  ought  one 
to  Do  ?). 

How  oddly  is  reason  mixed  with  nonsense  even  in  these 
economic  demands  !  Tolstoi  has  rightly  discerned  the  evils  which 
follow  the  uprooting  of  the  people  from  fostering  Mother  Earth, 
and  the  incubation  of  a  day-wage-earning,  urban  industrial  pro- 
letariate. It  is  true,  also,  that  agriculture  could  employ  very 
many  more  men  healthily  and  profitably  than  at  present  if  the 
land  were  the  property  of  the  community,  and  each  one  re- 
ceived only  such  a  share,  and  that  only  for  his  lifetime,  as  he 
could  himself  cultivate  thoroughly.  But  must  industry  on  this 
account  be  destroyed  .''  Would  not  that  mean  the  destruction 
of  civilization  itself.^  Is  it  not  rather  the  duty  of  intelligent 
philanthropy  and  justice  carefully  to  maintain  the  division  of 
labour,  this  necessary  and  profitable  result  of  a  long  evolution, 
but  at  the  same  time,  through  a  better  system  of  economy,  to 
transform  the  artisan  from  a  factory  convict,  condemned  to  misery 
and  ill-health,  into  a  free  producer  of  wealth,  who  enjoys  the 
fruits  of  his  labour  himself,  and  works  no  more  than  is  com- 
patible with  his  health  and  his  claims  on  life  ? 

It  is  vain  to  seek  for  even  the  slightest  hint  of  such  a  solution 
in  Tolstoi.  He  contents  himself  with  a  barren  enthusiasm  for 
country  life,  which,  if  beautiful  in  Horace,  has  become  annoying 
and  ridiculous  in  Rousseau  ;  and  he  garrulously  plagiarizes  the 
hollow  phrases  about  the  worthlessness  of  civilization  of  the 
eloquent  Genevese,  who,  smitten  with  the  mania  of  persecution, 
could  only  have  led  a  sentimental  century  like  his  own  by  the 
nose.  Return  to  nature !  It  is  not  possible  to  compress  more 
absurdity  into  fewer  words.  On  our  earth  Nature  is  our  enemy, 
whom  we  must  fight,  before  whom  we  dare  not  lay  down  our 
weapons.  In  order  to  maintain  our  span  of  life  we  must  create 
endlessly  complicated  artificial  conditions  ;  we  must  clothe  our 
bodies,  build  a  roof  over  our  heads,  and  store  up  provisions  for 
many  months,  during  which  Nature  denies  us  every  nourishment. 
There  is  only  one  very  narrow  strip  of  our  planet  where  mankind 
can  live  without  exertion,  without  inventions  and  arts,  like  the 
beast  in  the  forest  and  the  fish  in  the  water,  and  that  is  on  some 
of  the  South  Sea  islands.  There,  in  perpetual  spring,  he  cer- 
tainly needs  no  clothes  and  no  dwelling,  or  only  some  palm- 
leaves  as  a  shelter  from  occasional  rain.  There,  at  all  seasons  of 
the  year,  he  finds  food  constantly  prepared  for  him  in  the  cocoa- 
nut  palm,  the  bread-fruit  tree,  the  banana,  in  some  domestic 
animals,  in  fish  and  mussels.  No  beast  of  prey  threatens  his 
safety,  and  forces  on  him  the  development  of  strength  and  con- 


l64  DEGENERATION 

tempt  of  death.  But  how  many  men  can  this  earthly  paradise 
maintain  ?  Perhaps  a  hundredth  part  of  present  humanity. 
The  remaining  ninety-nine  hundredths  have  only  the  alternative 
either  of  perishing,  or  of  settling  in  regions  of  our  planet  where 
the  table  is  not  spread,  and  the  pillow  of  delight  is  not  prepared, 
but  in  which  everything  which  life  demands  for  its  sustenance 
must  be  procured  artificially  and  laboriously.  The  '  return  to 
Nature '  means,  in  our  degrees  of  latitude,  the  return  to  hunger, 
to  freezing,  to  being  devoured  by  wolves  and  bears.  Not  in  the 
impossible  'return  to  Nature'  lies  healing  for  human  misery, 
but  in  the  reasonable  organization  of  our  struggle  with  Nature,  I 
might  say,  in  universal  and  obligatory  service  against  it,  from 
which  only  the  crippled  should  be  exempted. 

We  have  now  learnt  to  know  the  particular  ideas  which  together 
constitute  Tolstoism.  As  a  philosophy  it  gives  explanations  of 
the  world  and  of  life,  with  unmeaning  or  contradictory  para- 
phrases of  some  intentionally  misunderstood  Bible  verses.  As 
ethics,  it  prescribes  the  renunciation  of  resistance  against  vice 
and  crime,  the  distribution  of  property,  and  the  annihilation  of 
mankind  by  complete  abstinence.  As  sociological  and  economic 
doctrine  it  preaches  the  uselessness  of  science,  the  happiness  of 
becoming  stupid,  the  renunciation  of  manufactured  products,  and 
the  duty  of  agriculture,  though  without  betraying  from  whence 
the  farmer  is  to  get  the  necessary  soil  for  cultivation.  The 
remarkable  thing  in  this  system  is,  that  it  does  not  notice  its 
own  superfluity.  If  it  understood  itself,  it  would  restrict  itself 
to  one  single  point — abstinence — since  it  is  evident  that  it  is 
unnecessary  to  break  one's  head  over  the  aim  and  import  of 
human  life,  over  crime  and  love  of  your  neighbour,  and  particu- 
larly over  country  or  town  life,  if  in  any  case  through  abstinence 
humanity  is  to  die  out  with  the  present  generation. 

Rod*  denies  that  Tolstoi  is  a  mystic.  '  Mysticism  was  always, 
as  the  word  indicates,  a  transcendental  doctrine.  The  mystics, 
especially  the  Christian  mystics,  have  always  sacrificed  the  pre- 
sent to  the  future  life.  .  .  .  What,  on  the  contrary,  astonishes 
an  unprejudiced  mind  in  Tolstoi's  books  is  the  almost  complete 
absence  of  all  metaphysics,  his  indifference  to  the  so-called 
questions  of  the  other  world.' 

Rod  simply  does  not  know  what  mysticism  is.  He  unduly 
restricts  the  sense  of  the  word,  if  he  only  uses  it  to  mean  the 
investigation  of  '  other-world  questions.'  If  he  were  less  super- 
ficial he  would  know  that  religious  enthusiasm  is  only  one  special 
instance  of  a  general  mental  condition,  and  that  mysticism  is  any 
morbid  obscuration  and  incoherence  of  thought  which  is  accom- 
panied by  emotionalism,  and  therefore  includes  that  thought, 
the  fruit  of  which  is  the  system  at  once  Materialistic,  Pantheistic, 

*  Ed.  Rod,  Les  Idhs  morales  du  Te7nps prhent.     Paris,  1892,  p.  241. 


MYSTICISM  165 

Christian,    Ascetic,    Rousseauistic    and    Communistic,    of   Leo 
Tolstoi. 

Raphael  Lowenfeld,  whom  we  have  to  thank  for  the  first  com- 
plete German  edition  of  Tolstoi's  works,  has  also  written  a  very 
commendable  biography  of  the  Russian  novelist,  yet  in  which  he 
feels  himself  obliged,  not  only  to  take  sides  vehemently  with  his 
hero,  but  also  to  assure  that  hero's  possible  critics  beforehand 
of  his  deep  contempt  for  them,  'Want  of  comprehension,'  he 
says,*  'calls  them  (the  "independent  phenomena"  of  Tolstoi's 
sort)  eccentrics,  unwilling  to  allow  that  anyone  should  be  a 
head  taller  than  the  rest.  The  unprejudiced  man,  who  is 
capable  of  admiring  greatness,  sees  in  their  independence  the 
expression  of  an  extraordinary  power  which  has  outgrown  the 
possibilities  of  the  time,  and,  leading  on,  points  out  the  paths  to 
those  coming  after.'  It  is  indeed  hazardous  forthwith  to  accuse 
all  who  are  not  of  his  opinion  of  '  want  of  comprehension.'  One 
who  judges  so  autocratically  will  have  to  put  up  with  the  answer, 
that  he  is  guilty  of  '  want  of  comprehension  '  who,  without  the 
most  elementary  training,  enters  upon  the  criticism  of  a  pheno- 
menon, to  the  understanding  of  which  some  degree  of  aesthetical 
and  literary  so-called  '  knowledge  '  and  personal  feeling  are  very 
far  from  sufficient.  Lowenfeld  boasts  of  his  capacity  to  admire 
greatness.  He  is  possibly  wrong  not  to  presuppose  this  capacity 
in  others  also.  What  he  precisely  has  to  prove  is  this,  that  what 
he  admires  deserves  in  truth  the  designation  of  greatness.  His 
assertion,  however,  is  the  only  proof  he  brings  on  this  most 
important  point.  He  calls  himself  unprejudiced.  It  may  be 
admitted  that  he  is  free  from  prejudices,  but  then  he  is  free  also 
from  the  preliminary  knowledge  that  alone  entitles  anyone  to 
form  an  opinion  on  psychological  phenomena,  which  strike  even 
the  uninitiated  as  extraordinary,  and  to  present  them  with 
self-assurance.  Did  he  possess  this  preliminary  knowledge  he 
would  know  that  Tolstoi,  who,  '  leading,  is  to  point  out  the 
paths  to  those  coming  after,'  is  a  mere  copy  of  a  class  of  men 
who  have  had  their  representatives  in  every  age.  Lombroso-J* 
instances  a  certain  Knudsen,  a  madman,  who  lived  in  Schleswig 
about  1C80,  and  asserted  that  there  was  neither  a  God  nor  a 
hell ;  that  priests  and  judges  were  useless  and  pernicious,  and 
marriage  an  immorality  ;  that  men  ceased  to  exist  after  death  ; 
that  everyone  must  be  guided  by  his  own  inward  insight,'  etc. 
Here  we  have  the  principal  features  of  Tolstoi's  cosmology 
and  moral  philosophy.  Knudsen  has,  however, so  little  'pointed 
out,  leading,  the  way  to  those  coming  after,'  that  he  still  only 
exists  as  an  instructive  case  of  mental  aberration  in  books  on 
diseases  of  the  mind. 

*  Raphael   Lowenfeld,  Leo   N.    Tolstoi,  sein  Leben,  seine    Werke,   seine 
\V eltanschaunng.     Erster  Theil.      Berlin,  1892,  Introd.,  p.  i. 
f  Lombroso,  Genie  U7id  Irrsinn,  p.  256,  foot-note. 


i66  DEGENERATION 

The  truth  is  that  all  Tolstoi's  idiosyncrasies  could  be  traced 
to  the  best-known  and  most  often  observed  stigmata  of  higher 
degeneration.  He  even  relates  of  himself  :*  '  Scepticism  brought 
me  at  one  time  to  a  condition  nearly  bordering  on  frenzy.  I 
had  the  idea  that  besides  myself  nobody  and  nothing  existed  in 
the  whole  world  ;  that  things  were  not  things,  but  presentations, 
which  only  became  phenomenal  at  what  time  I  directed  my 
attention  to  them,  and  that  these  presentations  disappeared  at 
once  when  I  ceased  to  think  of  them.  .  .  .  There  were  hours 
when,  under  the  influence  of  this  fixed  idea,  I  came  to  such  a 
pitch  of  mental  bewilderment  that  I  at  times  looked  quickly  the 
other  way,  in  the  hope  that  in  the  place  where  I  was  not,  I  might 
be  surprised  by  nothingness.'  And  in  his  Confession  he  says 
explicitly  :  '  I  felt  that  I  was  not  quite  mentally  sound.'f  His 
feeling  was  correct.  He  was  suffering  from  a  mania  of  brooding 
doubt,  observable  in  many  of  the  '  higher  degenerates.'  Professor 
Kowalewski  J  explains  the  mania  of  doubt  straight  away  as  exclu- 
sively a  psychosis  of  degeneration.  Griesinger§  relates  the  case 
of  a  patient  who  continually  brooded  over  the  notions  of  beauty, 
existence,  etc.,  and  put  endless  questions  about  them.  Griesinger, 
however,  was  less  familiar  with  the  phenomena  of  degeneration, 
and  therefore  held  his  case  as  '  one  little  known.'  Lombroso|| 
mentions  in  the  enumeration  of  the  symptoms  of  his  maniacs  of 
genius  :  'Almost  all  are  taken  up,  in  the  most  painful  manner, 
with  religious  doubts,  which  disturb  the  mind  and  oppress  the 
timid  conscience  and  sick  heart,  like  a  crime.'  It  is  not,  then, 
the  noble  desire  for  knowledge  which  forces  Tolstoi  to  be  cease- 
lessly occupied  with  questions  concerning  the  aim  and  mean- 
ing of  life,  but  the  degeneration-mania  of  doubt  and  brooding 
thought,  which  is  barren,  because  no  answer,  no  explanation  can 
satisfy  them.  For  it  is  obvious  that  be  the  '  therefore '  never  so 
clear,  never  so  exhaustive,  it  can  never  silence  the  mechanically 
impulsive  '  wherefore  '  proceeding  from  the  Unconscious. 

A  special  form  of  the  phenomenon  of  scepticism  and  brooding 
thought  is  a  rage  for  contradiction,  and  the  inclination  to  bizarre 
assertions,  as  is  noted  by  many  clinicists — e.g.,  Sollier^ — as  a 
special  stigma  of  degeneration.  It  has  appeared  very  strongly 
in  Tolstoi  at  certain  times.  '  In  the  struggles  for  independence,' 
relates  Lowenfeld,**  '  Tolstoi  frequently  overstepped  the  limits  of 
good  taste,  while  he  combated  tradition  only  because  it  was  tradi- 
tion.    Thus  he  called  .  .  .  Shakespeare  a  scribbler  by  the  dozen, 

*  Lowenfeld,  op.  cit.,  p.  39.  f  Ibid.,  p.  276. 

I  Professor  Kowalewski,  in  The  Joiirjial  of  Mental  Science,  January,  1888. 
§  Griesinger,  '  Ueber  einen  wenig  bekannten  psychopathischen  Zustand,' 

Archiv  filr  Psychiatrie,  Band  I. 

II  Lombrosii,  Genie  und  I?-rsinft,  p.  324. 

^  Sollier,  Psychologic  de  V Idiot  et  de  P Imbecile, 
**  Lowenfeld,  op.  cit.,  p.  100. 


MYSTICISM  167 

and  asserted  that  the  admiration  .  ,  ,  for  the  great  English- 
man .  .  .  has  properly  no  other  origin  than  the  custom  of  echo- 
ing strange  opinions  with  thoughtless  obsequiousness.' 

What  one  finds  most  touching  and  most  worthy  of  admiration 
in  Tolstoi  is  his  boundless  spirit  of  fraternity.  I  have  already 
shown  above  that  it  is  foolish  in  its  starting-points  and  mani- 
festations. Here,  however,  I  may  have  to  point  out  that  it  is 
likewise  a  stigma  of  degeneration.  Though  he  has  not  the 
experience  of  an  alienist,  the  clear-minded,  healthy  Tourgenieff 
has,  by  his  own  common-sense,  '  scofifingly '  called  Tolstoi's 
fervent  love  for  the  oppressed  people  '  hysterical,'  as  Lowenfeld* 
says.  We  shall  find  it  again  in  many  degenerate  subjects.  *  In 
contrast  to  the  selfish  imbecile/  Legrainf  teaches,  '  we  have  the 
imbeciles  who  are  good  to  excess,  who  are  philanthropic,  who 
set  up  a  thousand  absurd  systems  in  order  to  advance  the 
happiness  of  humanity.'  And  further  on  :  *  Full  of  his  love  for 
humanity,  the  imbecile  patient,  without  reflection,  takes  up  the 
social  question  on  its  most  difficult  side,  and  settles  it  con- 
fidently in  a  series  of  grotesque  inventions,'  This  irrational 
philanthropy,  untutored  by  judgment,  which  Tourgenieff,  with 
just  surmise  if  incorrect  designation,  called  'hysterical,'  is 
nothing  else  than  a  manifestation  of  that  emotionalism  which 
constitutes  for  Morel  the  fundamental  character  of  degenera- 
tion. Nothing  in  this  diagnosis  is  altered  by  the  fact  that 
Tolstoi  had  the  good  fortune,  during  the  recent  famine,  of  being 
able  to  develop  the  most  highly  effective  and  most  devoted  help- 
fulness for  the  alleviation  of  the  misery  of  his  countrymen.  The 
case  happened  to  be  very  simple.  The  need  of  his  fellow-creatures 
was  of  the  most  primitive  form,  want  of  bodily  food.  Fraternal 
love  could  likewise  set  to  work  in  its  most  primitive  form,  in  the 
distribution  of  food  and  clothing.  A  special  power  of  judgment, 
a  deep  comprehension  of  the  need  of  his  fellow-creatures,  was 
here  unnecessary.  And  that  Tolstoi's  preparations  for  the  relief 
of  the  sufferers  were  more  effective  than  those  of  the  proper 
authorities  only  proved  the  stupidity  and  incapacity  of  the 
latter. 

Tolstoi's  attitude  towards  women  also,  which  must  remain 
incomprehensible  to  a  healthy  human  understanding,  will,  in  the 
light  of  clinical  experience,  forthwith  be  understood.  It  has 
been  repeatedly  pointed  out  in  these  pages  that  the  emotionalism 
of  the  degenerate  has,  as  a  rule,  an  erotic  colouring,  because  of 
the  pathological  alteration  in  their  sexual  centres.  The 
abnormal  excitability  of  these  parts  of  the  nervous  system  can 
have  as  a  consequence  both  an  especial  attraction  towards 
woman    and    an    especial    antipathy   to    her.      The    common 

*  Lowenfeld,  op.  cit,  p.  47. 

f  Legrain,  Du  Delire  chez  les  Deghiires,  pp.  28,  195. 


l68  DEGENERATION 

element  connecting  these  opposing  effects  of  one  and  the  same 
organic  condition  is  the  being  constantly  occupied  with  woman, 
the  being  constantly  engrossed  with  presentations  in  conscious- 
ness from  the  region  of  sexuality.* 

In  the  mental  life  of  a  sane  man,  woman  is  far  from  filling 
the  part  she  plays  in  that  of  the  degenerate.  The  physiological 
relation  of  man  to  woman  is  that  of  desire  for  the  time  being 
toward  her,  and  of  indifference  when  the  state  of  desire  is  not 
present.  Antipathy,  let  alone  violent  enmity,  to  woman,  the 
normal  man  never  feels.  If  he  desires  the  woman,  he  loves  her ; 
if  his  erotic  excitement  is  appeased,  he  becomes  cool  and  more 
distant  in  his  attitude,  though  without  feeling  aversion  or  fear. 
The  man,  from  his  purely  subjective,  physiological  necessities 
and  inclinations,  would  certainly  never  have  invented  marriage, 
the  persistent  alliance  with  woman.  This  is  not  a  sexual  but  a 
social  arrangement.  It  does  not  rest  on  the  organic  instincts  of 
the  individual  man,  but  on  the  need  of  collectivity.  It  depends 
on  the  existing  economic  order  and  the  dominant  opinions  about 
the  State,  its  problems  and  its  relations  to  the  individual,  and 
changes  its  form  with  these.  A  man  may — or  at  least  should — 
choose  a  certain  woman  for  his  consort  out  of  love ;  but  what 
holds  him  fast  married,  after  a  suitable  choice  and  successful 
courtship,  is  no  longer  physiological  love,  but  a  complex  mix- 
ture of  habit,  gratitude,  unsexual  friendship,  convenience,  the 
wish  to  obtain  for  himself  social  advantages  (to  which  must 
naturally  be  added  an  ordered  household,  social  representation, 
etc.),  considerations  of  duty  towards  children  and  State  ;  more 
or  less,  also,  unthinking  imitation  of  a  universal  observance. 
But  feelings  such  as  are  described  in  the  Kreutzer  Sonata  and 
in  Family  Happiness  the  normal  man  never  experiences  towards 
his  wife,  even  if  he  has  ceased  to  love  her  in  the  natural  sense  of 
the  word. 

These  relations  are  quite  otherwise  in  the  degenerate.  The 
morbid  activity  of  his  sexual  centres  completely  rules  him.  The 
thought  of  woman  has  for  him  the  power  of  an  '  obsession.' 
He  feels  that  he  cannot  resist  the  exciting  influences  proceed- 
ing from  the  woman,  that  he  is  her  helpless  slave,  and  would 
commit  any  folly,  any  madness,  any  crime,  at  her  beck  and  call. 
He  necessarily,  therefore,  sees  in  woman  an  uncanny,  over- 
powering force  of  nature,  bestowing  supreme  delights  or  dealing 

*  It  is  not  my  object,  in  a  book  intended  primarily  for  the  general  educated 
reader,  to  dwell  on  this  delicate  subject.  Anyone  wishing  to  be  instructed 
more  closely  in  the  morbid  eroticism  of  the  degenerate  may  read  the  books 
of  Paul  Moreau  (of  Tours)  Des  Aberrations  du  Sens  gcncsique,  i^  Edition, 
Paris,  1883;  and  Krafft-Ebing's  Psychopathia  sexualis,  Stuttgart,  1886. 
Papers  on  this  subject  by  We^iphal  {Archiv  filr  Psychiatrie^  1870  and  1876), 
by  Charcot  and  Magnan  {^Archives  de  Ncurologie,  ib82),  etc.,  are  scarcely 
accessible  to  the  general  public. 


MYSTICISM  169 

destruction,  and  he  trembles  before  this  power,  to  which  he  is 
defencelessly  exposed.  If,  then,  besides  this,  the  almost  never- 
failing  aberrations  set  in,  if  he,  in  fact,  commits  things  for 
woman  for  which  he  must  condemn  and  despise  himself;  or  if 
woman,  without  its  coming  to  actual  deeds,  awakens  in  him 
emotions  and  thoughts  before  whose  baseness  and  infamy  he  is 
horrified,  then,  in  the  moment  of  exhaustion,  when  judgment  is 
stronger  than  impulse,  the  dread  which  woman  inspires  him 
withal  will  be  suddenly  changed  into  aversion  and  savage 
hatred.  The  erotomaniac  'degenerate  '  stands  in  the  same  posi- 
tion to  the  woman  as  a  dipsomaniac  to  intoxicating  drinks. 
Magnan*  has  given  an  appalling  picture  of  the  struggles  waged 
in  the  mind  of  a  dipsomaniac  by  the  passionate  eagerness  for  the 
bottle,  and  the  loathing  and  horror  of  it.  The  mind  of  an 
erotomaniac  presents  a  similar  spectacle,  but  probably  still 
stronger  struggles.  These  frequently  lead  the  unhappy  creature, 
who  sees  no  other  means  of  escaping  from  his  sexual  obsession, 
to  self-mutilation.  There  are  in  Russia,  as  is  well  known,  a 
whole  sect  of  'degenerates,'  the  Skoptzi,  by  whom  this  is  syste- 
matically exercised,  as  the  only  effective  treatment  to  escape  the 
devil  and  be  saved.  Pozdnyscheff,  in  the  Kreiitzer  Sonata,  is  a 
Skopetz  without  knowing  it,  and  the  sexual  morality  which 
Tolstoi  teaches  in  this  narrative  and  in  his  theoretic  writings  is 
the  expression  in  literature  of  the  sexual  psychopathy  of  the 
Skoptzi. 

The  universal  success  of  Tolstoi's  writings  is  undoubtedly 
due  in  part  to  his  high  literary  gifts.  But  that  part  is  not  the 
greatest  ;  for,  as  we  have  seen  in  the  beginning  of  this  chapter, 
it  was  not  his  artistically  most  important  creations,  the  works  of 
his  best  years,  but  his  later  mystical  works,  which  have  won  for 
him  his  body  of  believers.  This  effect  is  to  be  explained,  not 
on  ssthetical,  but  on  pathological  grounds.  Tolstoi  would  have 
remained  unnoticed,  like  any  Knudsen  of  the  seventeenth 
century,  if  his  extravagances  as  a  degenerate  mystic  had  not 
found  his  contemporaries  prepared  for  their  reception.  The 
wide-spread  hysteria  from  exhaustion  was.  the  requisite  soil  in 
which  alone  Tolstoism  could  flourish. 

That  the  rise  and  expansion  of  Tolstoism  is  to  be  traced,  not 
to  the  intrinsic  merit  of  Tolstoi's  writings,  but  to  the  mental 
condition  of  his  readers,  is  made  clear  in  the  most  significant 
manner  by  the  difference  in  those  parts  of  his  system  which 
have  made  an  impression  in  various  countries.  In  every  nation 
just  such  tones  awakened  an  echo  as  were  attuned  with  its  own 
nervous  system. 

In  England  it  was  Tolstoi's  sexual  morality  that  excited  the 

*  V.  Magnan,  Leqons  cliniqtus  sur  la  Dipsomatiie,faites  d.  Vasile  Sainte- 
Anne.     Recueillies  et  publi^es  par  M.  le  Dr.  Marcel  Briand.     Paris,  1884. 


I70  DEGENERATION 

greatest  in^^erest,  for  in  that  country  economic  reasons  condemn 
a  formidable  number  of  girls,  particularly  of  the  educated  classes, 
to  forego  marriage  ;  and,  from  a  theory  which  honoured  chastity 
as  the  highest  dignity  and  noblest  human  destiny,  and  branded 
marriage  with  gloomy  wrath  as  abominable  depravity,  these 
poor  creatures  would  naturally  derive  rich  consolation  for 
their  lonely,  empty  lives,  and  their  cruel  exclusion  from  the 
possibility  of  fulfilling  their  natural  calling.  The  Krtutzer 
Sonata  has,  therefore,  become  the  book  of  devotion  of  all  the 
spinsters  of  England. 

In  France  Tolstoism  is  particularly  valued  for  the  way  in 
which  it  casts  out  science,  deposes  the  intellect  from  all  offices 
and  dignities,  preaches  the  return  to  implicit  faith,  and  praises 
the  poor  in  spirit  as  alone  happy.  This  is  water  to  the  mill  of 
neo-Catholics,  and  those  mystics,  from  political  motives,  or  from 
degeneration,  who  erect  a  cathedral  to  pious  symbolism,  raise  up 
also  a  high  altar  to  Tolstoi  in  their  church. 

In  Germany,  on  the  whole,  but  little  enthusiasm  is  evinced 
for  the  abstinence-morality  of  the  Kreiitzer  Sonata,  and  the 
intellectual  reaction  of  My  Confession,  My  Religion,  and  Fruits  of 
Enlightenment.  On  the  other  hand,  his  followers  in  that  country 
exalt  Tolstoi's  vague  socialism  and  his  morbid  fraternal  love  into 
their  dogma.  All  the  muddle-headed  among  our  people  who, 
not  from  sober  scientific  conviction,  but  from  hysterical  emotion- 
alism, feel  a  leaning  towards  a  sickly,  impotent  socialism,  which 
tends  principally  towards  ministering  cheap  broth  to  proleta- 
rians, and  towards  revelling  in  sentimental  romances  and  melo- 
dramas from  the  pretended  life  of  the  city  worker,  naturally 
discovered  in  Tolstoi's  '  give-me-something-communism,'  with 
its  scorn  for  all  economic  and  moral  laws,  the  expression  of  their 
— very  platonic  ! — love  for  the  disinherited.  And  in  the  circles 
in  which  Herr  von  Egidy's  watery  rationalism  (at  least  a  hundred 
years  behind  time)  could  rise  into  notoriety,  and  in  which  his  first 
writing  could  call  forth  nearly  a  hundred  replies,  assents,  and 
explanations,  Tolstoi's  Short  Exposition  of  the  Gospel,  with  its 
denial  of  the  divine  nature  of  Christ,  and  of  existence  after 
death,  with  its  effusions  of  a  superabundance  of  feelings  of 
aimless  love,  its  incomprehensible  personal  sanctification  and 
rhetoric  morality,  and  especially  with  its  astounding  misinterpre- 
tation of  the  clearest  passages  from  Scripture,  must  indeed  have 
been  an  event.  All  the  adherents  of  Herr  von  Egidy  are  pre- 
destined followers  of  Tolstoi,  and  all  Tolstoi's  admirers  perpe- 
trate an  inconsistency  if  they  do  not  enter  into  the  new  Salvation 
Army  of  Herr  von  Egidy. 

By  the  special  timbre  of  the  echo  which  Tolstoism  calls 
forth  in  different  countries,  he  has  become  an  instrument  which 
is  better  fitted  than  any  other  tendency  of  degeneration  in  con- 


MYSTICISM  171 

temporary  literature  for  the  determination,  measurement,  and 
comparison,  in  kind  and  degree,  of  degeneration  and  hysteria 
among  those  civilized  nations  in  which  the  phenomenon  of  the 
Dusk  of  the  Nations  has  been  observed. 


CHAPTER  V. 

THE   RICHARD   WAGNER  CULT. 

We  have  seen  in  a  previous  chapter  that  the  whole  mystic 
movement  of  the  period  has  its  roots  in  romanticism,  and  hence 
originally  emanates  from  Germany.  In  England  German 
romanticism  was  metamorphosed  into  pre-Raphaelitism,  in 
France  the  latter  engendered,  with  the  last  remains  of  its  pro- 
creative  strength,  the  abortions  of  symbolism  and  neo- 
Catholicism,  and  these  Siamese  twins  contracted  with  Tolstoism 
a  mountebank  marriage  such  as  might  take  place  between  the 
cripple  of  a  fair  and  the  wonder  of  a  show-booth.  While  the 
descendants  of  the  emigrant  (who  on  his  departure  from  his 
German  home  already  carried  in  him  all  the  germs  of  subsequent 
tumefactions  and  disfigurements),  so  changed  as  to  be  almost 
uniecognisable,  grew  up  in  different  countries,  and  set  about  re- 
turning to  their  native  land  to  attempt  the  renewal  of  family 
ties  with  their  home-staying  connections,  Germany  gave  birth  to 
a  new  prodigy,  who  was  in  truth  only  reared  with  great  trouble 
to  manhood,  and  for  long  years  received  but  little  notice  or 
appreciation,  but  who  finally  obtained  an  incomparably  mightier 
attractive  force  over  the  great  fools'  fair  of  the  present  time  than 
all  his  fellow-competitors.  This  prodigy  is  '  Wagnerism,'  It  is 
the  German  contribution  to  modern  mysticism,  and  far  out- 
weighs all  that  the  other  nations  combined  have  supplied  to  that 
movement.  For  Germany  is  powerful  in  everything,  in  evil  as 
in  good,  and  the  magnitude  of  its  elementary  force  manifests 
itself  in  a  crushing  manner  in  its  degenerate,  as  well  as  in  its 
ennobling,  efforts. 

Richard  Wagner  is  in  himself  alone  charged  with  a  greater 
abundance  of  degeneration  than  all  the  degenerates  put  together 
with  whom  we  have  hitherto  become  acquainted.  The  stigmata 
of  this  morbid  condition  are  united  in  him  in  the  most  complete 
and  most  luxuriant  development.  He  displays  in  the  general 
constitution  of  his  mind  the  persecution  mania,  megalomania 
and  mysticism  ;  in  his  instincts  vague  philanthropy,  anarchism, 
a  craving  for  revolt  and  contradiction  ;  in  his  writings  all  the 
signs  of  graphomania,  namely,  incoherence,  fugitive  ideation, 
and  a  tendency  to  idiotic  punning,  and,  as  the  groundwork  of 


172  DEGENERATION 

his  being,  the  characteristic  emotionalism  of  a  colour  at  once 
erotic  and  religiously  enthusiastic. 

For  Wagner's  persecution  mania,  we  have  the  testimony  of 
his  most  recent  biographer  and  friend,  Ferdinand  Praeger,  who 
relates  that  for  years  Wagner  was  convinced  that  the  Jews 
had  conspired  to  prevent  the  representation  of  his  operas — a 
delirium  inspired  by  his  furious  anti-Semitism.  His  megalo- 
mania is  so  well  known  through  his  writings,  his  verbal  utter- 
ances, and  the  whole  course  of  his  life,  that  a  bare  reference 
to  it  is  sufficient.  It  is  to  be  admitted  that  this  mania  was 
essentially  increased  by  the  crazy  procedure  of  those  who 
surrounded  Wagner.  A  much  firmer  equilibrium  than  that 
which  obtained  in  Wagner's  mind  would  have  been  infallibly 
disturbed  by  the  nauseous  idolatry  of  which  Bayreuth  was  the 
shrine.  The  Bayreidher  Blatter  is  a  unique  phenomenon. 
To  me,  at  least,  no  other  instance  is  known  of  a  newspaper 
which  was  founded  exclusively  for  the  deification  of  a  living 
man,  and  in  every  number  of  which,  through  long  years,  the 
appointed  priests  of  the  temple  have  burned  incense  to  their 
household  god,  with  the  savage  fanaticism  of  howling  and 
dancing  dervishes,  bent  the  knee,  prostrated  themselves  before 
him,  and  immolated  all  opponents  as  sacrificial  victims. 

We  will  take  a  closer  view  of  the  graphomaniac  Wagner. 
His  Collected  Writings  and  Poems  form  ten  large  thick  volumes, 
and  among  the  4,500  pages  which  they  approximately  contain 
there  is  hardly  a  single  one  which  will  not  puzzle  the  unbiased 
reader,  either  through  some  nonsensical  thought  or  some  im- 
possible mode  of  expression.  Of  his  prose  works  (his  poems 
will  be  treated  of  further  on),  the  most  important  is  decidedly 
Ihe  Art-work  of  the  Future.*  The  thoughts  therein  expressed 
— so  far  as  the  wavering  shadows  of  ideas  in  a  mystically 
emotional  degenerate  subject  may  be  so  called  —  occupied 
Wagner  during  his  whole  life,  and  were  again  and  again  pro- 
pounded by  him  in  ever  new  terms  and  phraseology.  The  Opera 
and  the  Drama,  Judaism  in  Music,  On  the  State  and  Religion, 
The  Vocation  of  the  Opera,  Religion  and  Art,  are  nothing  more 
than  amplifications  of  single  passages  of  The  Art-work  of  the 
Future.  This  restless  repetition  of  one  and  the  same  strain  of 
thought  is  itself  characteristic  in  the  highest  degree.  The  clear, 
mentally  sane  author,  who  feels  himself  impelled  to  say  some- 
thing, will  once  for  all  express  himself  as  distinctly  and  impres- 
sively as  it  is  possible  for  him  to  do,  and  have  done  with  it. 
He  may,  perhaps,  return  to  the  subject,  in  order  to  clear  up 
misconceptions,  repel  attacks,  and  fill  up  lacunae  ;  but  he  will 

*  Richard  Wagner,  Das  Kimstwerk  der  Ziikunft.  Leipzig,  1850,  The 
numbering  of  the  pages  given  in  quotations  from  this  work  refers  to  the 
edition  here  indicated. 


MYSTICISM  173 

never  wish  to  rewrite  his  book,  wholly  or  in  part,  two  or  three 
times  in  slightly  different  words,  not  even  if  in  later  years  he 
attains  to  the  insight  that  he  has  not  succeeded  in  finding  for  it 
an  adequate  form.  The  crazed  graphomaniac,  on  the  contrary, 
cannot  recognise  in  his  book,  as  it  lies  finished  before  him,  the 
satisfying  expression  of  his  thoughts,  and  he  will  always  be 
tempted  to  begin  his  work  afresh,  a  task  which  is  endless, 
because  it  must  consist  in  giving  a  fixed  linguistic  form  to  ideas 
which  are  formless. 

The  fundamental  thought  of  the  Art-work  of  the  Future  is 
this  :  The  first  and  most  original  of  the  arts  was  that  of  dancing  ; 
its  peculiar  essence  is  rhythm,  and  this  has  developed  into 
music ;  music,  consisting  of  rhythm  and  tone,  has  raised 
(Wagner  says  '  condensed  ^)  its  phonetic  element  to  speech, 
and  produced  the  art  of  poetry  ;  the  highest  form  of  poetry 
is  the  drama,  which  for  the  purpose  of  stage-construction, 
and  to  imitate  the  natural  scene  of  human  action,  has  asso- 
ciated itself  with  architecture  and  painting  respectively  ;  finally, 
sculpture  is  nothing  but  the  giving  permanence  to  the  appear- 
ance of  the  actor  in  a  dead  rigid  form,  while  acting  is  real 
sculpture  in  living,  flowing  movement.  Thus  all  the  arts 
group  themselves  around  the  drama,  and  the  latter  should  unite 
them  naturally.  Nevertheless  they  appear  at  present  in  isola- 
tion, to  the  great  injury  of  each  and  of  art  in  general.  This 
reciprocal  estrangement  and  isolation  of  the  different  arts  is  an 
unnatural  and  decadent  condition,  and  the  effort  of  true  artists 
must  be  to  win  them  back  to  their  natural  and  necessary  con- 
junction with  each  other.  The  mutual  penetration  and  fusion  of 
all  arts  into  a  single  art  will  produce  the  genuine  work  of  art. 
Hence  the  work  of  art  of  the  future  is  a  drama  with  music  and 
dance,  which  unrolls  itself  in  a  landscape  painting,  has  for  a  frame 
a  masterly  creation  of  architectural  art  designed  for  the  poetico- 
musical  end,  and  is  represented  by  actors  who  are  really  sculptors, 
but  who  realize  their  plastic  inspirations  by  means  of  their  own 
bodily  appearance. 

In  this  way  Wagner  has  set  forth  for  himself  the  evolution  of 
art.  His  system  calls  for  criticism  in  every  part.  The  historical 
filiation  of  the  arts  which  he  attempts  to  establish  is  false.  If 
the  original  reciprocal  connections  of  song,  dance  and  poetry 
be  granted,  the  development  of  architecture,  painting  and 
sculpture  is  certainly  independent  of  poetry  in  its  dramatic  form. 
That  the  theatre  employs  all  the  arts  is  true,  but  it  is  one  of 
those  truths  which  are  so  self-evident  that  it  is  generally  un- 
necessary to  mention  them,  and  least  of  all  with  profound  pro- 
phetic mien  and  the  grand  priestly  gestures  of  one  proclaiming 
surprising  revelations.  Everyone  knows  from  experience  that 
the   stage  is   in  a  theatrical  building,  that  it  displays  painted 


174  DEGENERATION 

decorations  which  represent  landscapes  or  buildings,  and  that  on 
it  there  is  speaking,  singing  and  acting.  Wagner  secretly  feels 
that  he  makes  himself  ridiculous  when  he  strains  himself  to 
expound  this  trite  matter  of  first  experience  in  the  Pythian  mode, 
with  an  enormous  outlay  of  gush  and  exaltation  .  .  . ;  hence  he 
exaggerates  it  to  such  a  degree  as  to  turn  it  into  an  absurdity. 
He  not  only  asseverates  that  in  the  drama  (more  correctly 
speaking,  the  opera,  or  the  musical  drama,  as  Wagner  prefers  to 
call  it)  different  arts  co-operate,  but  he  asserts  that  it  is  only 
through  this  co-operation  that  each  individual  art  is  advanced 
to  its  highest  capacity  of  expression,  and  that  the  individual 
arts  must  and  will  surrender  their  independence  as  an  unnatural 
error,  in  order  to  continue  to  exist  only  as  collaborators  of  the 
musical  drama. 

The  first  asseveration  is  at  least  doubtful.  In  the  cathedral 
of  Cologne  architecture  produces  an  impression  without  the 
representation  of  a  drama ;  the  accompaniment  of  music  would 
add  nothing  whatever  to  the  beauty  and  depth  of  Faust  and 
Hamlet ;  Goethe's  lyric  poetry  and  the  Divina  Connnedia  need 
no  landscape-painting  as  a  frame  and  background  ;  Michael 
Angelo's  Moses  would  hardly  produce  a  deeper  impression  sur- 
rounded by  dancers  and  singers  ;  and  the  Pastoral  Symphony 
does  not  require  the  accompaniment  of  words  in  order  to  exer- 
cise its  full  charm.  Schopenhauer,  although  Wagner  admired 
him  as  the  greatest  thinker  of  all  time,  expresses  himself  very 
decidedly  on  this  point.  '  The  grand  opera,'  he  says,*  *  is, 
properly  speaking,  no  product  of  pure  artistic  sense,  but  rather 
of  the  somewhat  barbaric  conception  of  elevating  aesthetic  en- 
joyment through  accumulation  of  means,  simultaneity  of  quite 
different  impressions,  and  intensification  of  the  effect  through 
the  multiplication  of  the  operating  masses  and  forces  ;  while, 
on  the  other  hand,  music,  as  the  mightiest  of  all  arts,  is  able  by 
itself  alone  completely  to  occupy  the  mind  which  is  susceptible 
to  it ;  indeed,  its  loftiest  productions,  to  be  appropriately 
grasped  and  enjoyed,  demand  a  mind  wholly  undivided  and  un- 
diverted, so  that  it  may  yield  itself  up  to  them,  and  lose  itself  in 
them,  in  order  completely  to  understand  their  incredible  in- 
wardness of  language.  Instead  of  this,  in  highly  complicated 
operatic  music  the  mind  is  besieged  at  the  same  time  by  way 
of  the  eye,  by  means  of  the  most  variegated  pomp,  the  most 
fantastic  pictures,  and  the  liveliest  impressions  of  light  and 
colour ;  while  over  and  above  this  it  is  occupied  with  the  story 
of  the  piece.  .  .  .  Strictly  speaking,  then,  one  may  call  opera 
an  unmusical  invention  for  the  benefit  of  unmusical  minds,  into 
which  music  must  only  be  smuggled  by  means  of  a  medium 

*  Arthur  Schopenhauer,  Parerga  icnd Paralipomena,  Ktirze  Phil.  Schrijkn. 
Leipzig,  1888,  Band  II.,  p.  465. 


MYSTICISM  175 

foreign  to  It,  that  is,  as  a  sort  of  accompaniment  to  a  lon^sf  spun- 
out,  insipid  love-story,  and  its  poetical  thin  broth  ;  for  the 
libretto  of  an  opera  does  not  tolerate  concise  poetry,  full  of 
genius  and  thought.'  This  is  an  absolute  condemnation  of  the 
Wagnerian  idea  of  the  musical  drama  as  the  collective  art-work 
of  the  future.  It  might  seem,  it  is  true,  that  certain  recent 
experiments  in  psychophysics  had  come  to  the  help  of  Wagner's 
theory  of  the  reciprocal  enhancement  of  the  simultaneous 
effects  of  different  arts.  Charles  Fere*  has,  in  fact,  shown  that 
the  ear  hears  more  keenly  when  the  eye  is  simultaneously 
stimulated  by  an  agreeable  (dynamogenous)  colour ;  but,  in  the 
first  place,  this  phenomenon  may  also  be  interpreted  thus : 
that  the  keenness  of  hearing  is  enhanced  not  by  the  visual  im- 
pression as  such,  not  simply  as  sense  excitation,  but  only  through 
its  dynamogenous  quality,  which  arouses  the  whole  nervous 
system  as  well  to  a  more  lively  activity.  And  then  the  question 
in  Fere's  experiments  is  merely  one  of  simple  sense-perceptions, 
whereas  the  musical  drama  is  supposed  to  awaken  a  higher 
cerebral  activity,  to  produce  presentations  and  thoughts,  together 
with  direct  emotions  ;  in  which  case  each  of  the  arts  acting  in 
concert  will  produce,  in  consequence  of  the  necessary  dispersion 
of  the  attention  to  it,  a  more  feeble  effect  than  if  it  appealed  by 
itself  alone  to  sense  and  intellect. 

Wagner's  second  assertion,  that  the  natural  evolution  of  each 
art  necessarily  leads  it  to  the  surrender  of  its  independence  and 
to  its  fusion  with  the  other  arts,^-  contradicts  so  strongly  all 
experience  and  all  the  laws  of  evolution,  that  it  can  at  once  be 
characterized  as  delirious.  Natural  development  always  proceeds 
from  the  simple  to  the  complex — not  inversely ;  progress  con- 
sists in  differentiation,  i.e.,  in  the  evolution  of  originally  similar 
parts  into  special  organs  of  different  structure  and  independent 
functions,  and  not  in  the  retrogression  of  differentiated  beings  of 
rich  specialization  to  a  protoplasm  without  physiognomy. 

*  Charles  Fdrd,  Sensation  et  Mouvemetit.     Paris,  1887. 

•f"  Das  Kimstwerk  der  Ztikunft,  p.  169  :  *  It  is  only  when  the  desire  of  the 
artistic  sculptor  has  passed  into  the  soul  of  the  dancer,  of  the  viimzc  inter- 
preter, of  him  who  sings  and  speaks,  that  this  desire  can  be  conceived  as 
satisfied.  It  is  only  when  the  art  of  sculpture  no  longer  exists,  or  has  fol- 
lowed another  tendency  than  that  of  representing  human  bodies — when  it 
has  passed,  as  sculpture,  into  architecture — when  the  rigid  solitude  of  this 
one  man  carved  in  stone  vyill  have  been  resolved  into  the  infinitely  flowing 
plurality  of  veritable,  living  men  ...  it  is  only  then,  too,  that  real  plastic 
will  exist.'  And  on  p.  182  :  'That  which  it  [painting]  honestly  exerts  itself 
to  attain,  it  attains  in  .  .  .  greatest  perfection  .  .  .  when  it  descends  from 
canvas  and  chalk  to  ascend  to  the  tragic  stage.  .  .  .  But  landscape-painting 
will  become,  as  the  last  and  most  finished  conclusion  of  all  the  fine  arts,  the 
life-giving  soul,  properly  speaking,  of  architecture  ;  it  will  teach  us  thus  to 
organize  the  stage  for  works  of  the  dramatic  art  of  the  future,  in  which,  itself 
living,  it  will  represent  the  warm  backgrciaid  of  nature  for  the  use  of  the 
living,  and  not  for  the  imitated  7nan.' 


176  DEGENERATION 

The  arts  have  not  arisen  accidentally  ;  their  differentiation  is 
the  consequence  of  organic  necessity ;  once  they  have  attained 
independence,  they  will  never  surrender  it.  They  can  degenerate, 
they  can  even  die  out,  but  they  can  never  again  shrink  back 
into  the  germ  from  which  they  have  sprung.  The  effort  tc 
return  to  beginnings  is,  however,  a  peculiarity  of  degeneration, 
and  founded  in  its  deepest  essence.  The  degenerate  subject  is 
himself  on  the  downward  road  from  the  height  of  organic  develop- 
ment which  our  species  has  reached  ;  his  imperfect  brain  is 
incapable  of  the  highest  and  most  refined  operations  of  thought ; 
he  has  therefore  a  strong  desire  to  lighten  them,  to  simplify  the 
multifariousness  of  phenomena  and  make  them  easier  to 
survey  ;  to  drag  everything  animate  and  inanimate  down  to  lower 
and  older  stages  of  existence,  in  order  to  make  them  more  easy 
of  access  to  his  comprehension.  We  have  seen  that  the  French 
Symbolists,  with  their  colour-hearing,  wished  to  degrade  man  to 
the  indifferentiated  sense-perceptions  of  the  pholas  or  oyster. 
Wagner's  fusion  of  the  arts  is  a  pendant  to  this  notion.  His 
Art-work  of  ihe  Future  is  the  art-work  of  times  long  past. 
What  he  takes  for  evolution  is  retrogression,  and  a  return  to  a 
primeval  human,  nay,  to  a  pre-human  stage. 

Still  more  extraordinary  than  the  fundamental  idea  of  the 
book  is  its  linguistic  form.  For  example,  let  us  estimate  the 
following  remarks  on  musical  art  (p.  68) :  '  The  sea  separates 
and  unites  countries;  thus  musical  art  separates  and  unites  the 
two  extreme  poles  of  human  art,  dancing  and  poetry.  It  is  the 
heart  of  man  ;  the  blood  which  takes  its  circulation  from  it  gives 
to  the  outward  flesh  its  warm  living  colour ;  but  it  nourishes 
with  an  undulating,  elastic  force  the  nerves  of  the  brain  which 
are  directed  inward'  [! !].  'Without  the  activity  of  the  heart, 
the  activity  of  the  brain  would  become  a  piece  of  mechanical 
skill  [!],  the  activity  of  the  external  limbs  an  equally 
mechanical,  emotionless  procedure.'  '  By  means  of  the  heart 
the  intellect  feels  itself  related  to  the  entire  body  [!] ;  the  mere 
sensuous  man  rises  to  intellectual  activity  '  [!].  '  Now,  the  organ 
of  the  heart  [!]  is  sound,  and  its  artistic  language  is  music'  What 
here  floated  before  the  mind  of  Wagner  was  a  comparison,  in 
itself  senseless,  between  the  function  of  music  as  the  medium  of 
expression  for  the  feelings,  and  the  function  of  the  blood  as 
the  vehicle  of  nutritive  materials  for  the  organism.  But  as  his 
mystically-disposed  brain  was  not  capable  of  clearly  grasping 
the  various  parts  of  this  intricate  idea,  and  of  arranging  them 
in  parallel  lines,  he  entangled  himself  in  the  absurdity  of  an 
'  activity  of  the  brain  without  activity  of  the  heart ';  of  a  '  rela- 
tion between  the  intellect  and  the  whole  body  through  the 
heart,'  etc.,  and  finally  attains  to  the  pure  twaddle  of  calling 
'  sound  '  the  '  organ  of  the  heart.' 


MYSTICISM 


177 


He  wishes  to  express  the  very  simple  thought  that  music 
cannot  communicate  definite  images  and  judgments,  but  merely 
feelings  of  a  general  character ;  and  for  this  purpose  devises 
the  following  rigmarole  (p.  88) :  '  It  is  never  able  ...  of  itself 
alone  to  bring  the  human  individual,  determined  as  to  sensation 
and  morals,  to  an  exactly  perceptible,  distinctive  representation ; 
it  is  in  its  infinite  involution  always  and  only  feeling  ;  it  appears 
as  an  accompaniment  of  the  moral  deed,  not  as  the  deed  itself ; 
it  can  place  feelings  and  dispositions  side  by  side,  not  develop 
in  necessary  sequence  one  disposition  from  another ;  it  is  lack- 
ing in  moral  will '  [!]. 

Let  the  reader  further  bury  himself  in  this  passage  (p.  159)  : 
*  It  is  only  and  exactly  in  the  degree  to  which  the  woman  of 
perfected  womanliness,  in  her  love  for  the  man,  and  through  her 
absorption  into  his  being,  shall  have  developed  the  masculine 
element  as  well  as  this  womanliness,  and  brought  it  with  the 
purely  womanly  element  in  herself  to  a  complete  consummation  ; 
in  other  words,  in  the  degree  in  which  she  is  not  only  the  man's 
mistress,  but  also  his  friend,  is  the  man  able  to  find  perfect 
satisfaction  in  a  woman's  love.' 

Wagner's  admirers  asseverate  that  they  understand  this  string 
of  words  thrown  together  at  random.  Indeed,  they  find  them 
remarkably  clear !  This,  however,  should  not  surprise  us. 
Readers  who  through  weakness  of  mind  or  flightiness  of 
thought  are  incapable  of  attention  always  understand  every- 
thing. For  them  there  exists  neither  obscurity  nor  nonsense. 
They  seek  in  the  words  over  which  their  absent  gaze  flits  super- 
ficially, not  the  author's  thoughts,  but  a  reflection  of  their  own 
rambling  dreams.  Those  who  have  lived  lovingly  observant  in 
children's  nurseries  must  have  frequently  seen  the  game  in  which 
a  child  takes  a  book,  or  printed  paper,  and,  holding  it  before  his 
face,  generally  upside  down,  begins  gravely  to  read  aloud,  often 
the  story  told  him  by  his  mamma  yesterday  before  he  dropped 
asleep,  or,  more  frequently,  the  fancies  which  at  the  moment  are 
buzzing  in  his  little  head.  This  is  somewhat  the  procedure  of 
these  blessed  readers  who  understand  everything.  They  do  not 
read  what  is  in  the  books,  but  what  they  put  into  them  ;  and  as 
far  as  the  process  and  result  of  this  mental  activity  are  concerned, 
it  is  certainly  very  much  a  matter  of  indifference  what  the 
author  has  actually  thought  and  said. 

The  incoherence  of  Wagner's  thought,  determined  as  it  is  by 
the  excitations  of  the  moment,  manifests  itself  in  his  constant 
contradictions.  At  one  time  (p.  187)  he  asserts,  *  The  highest 
aim  of  mankind  is  the  artistic ;  the  most  highly  artistic  is  the 
drama;'  and  in  a  footnote  (p.  194)  he  exclaims,  'These  easy- 
going creatures  are  fain  to  see  and  hear  everything,  except  i/ie 
real,  undisfigured  human  being  who  stands  exhorting  at  the  exit 
12 


178  DEGENERATION 

of  their  dreams.  But  it  is  exactly  this  very  human  being  7i>kom 
zve  must  now  place  in  the  foreground!  It  is  evident  that  one  of 
these  affirmations  is  diametrically  opposed  to  the  other.  The 
*  artistic  '  '  dramatic '  man  is  not  the  '  real '  man,  and  it  will  be 
impossible  for  him,  who  looks  upon  it  as  his  task  to  occupy  him- 
self with  the  real  man,  to  recognise  art  as  'the  highest  aim  of 
man,'  and  to  regard  his  '  dreams  '  as  the  most  distinguished  of 
his  activities. 

In  one  passage  (p.  206)  he  says :  *  Who,  therefore,  will  be  the 
artist  of  the  future  ?  Unquestionably  the  poet.  But  zvJio  will 
be  the  poet .''  Incontestably  the  interpreter.  Again,  however, 
who  will  be  the  interpreter  }  Necessarily  the  association  of  all 
artists.^  If  this  has  any  sense  at  all,  it  can  only  be  that  in  the 
future  the  people  will  jointly  write  and  act  their  dramas ;  and 
that  Wagner  really  meant  this  he  proves  in  the  passage  (p.  225) 
where  he  meets  the  objection  he  anticipated,  that  therefore  the 
mob  is  to  be  the  creator  of  the  art-work  of  the  future,  with 
the  words,  '  Bear  in  mind  that  this  mob  is  in  no  way  a 
normal  product  of  real  human  nature,  but  rather  the  artificial 
result  of  your  unnatural  civilization  ;  that  all  the  devices  and 
abominations  which  disgust  you  in  this  mob  are  only  the 
desperate  movements  of  the  fight  which  real  human  nature  is 
carrying  on  against  its  cruel  oppressor,  modern  civilization.' 
Let  us  contrast  with  these  expressions  the  following  passage 
from  the  treatise,  What  is  German  ?*  :  '  The  fact  that  from  the 
bosom  of  the  German  race  there  have  sprung  Goethe  and  Schiller, 
Mozart  and  Beethoven,  too  easily  seduces  the  greater  number 
of  persons  of  mediocre  gifts  into  regarding  these  great  minds  as 
belonging  by  right  to  them,  and  to  attempt,  with  the  compla- 
cency of  a  demagogue,  to  persuade  the  masses  that  they  them- 
selves are  Goethe  and  Schiller,  Mozart  and  Beethoven.*  But 
who,  if  not  Wagner  himself,  has  thus  persuaded  the  masses,  pro- 
claiming them  to  be  the  '  artists  of  the  future'.-*  And  this  very 
madness,  which  he  himself  recognises  as  such  in  the  remark 
quoted,  has  made  a  great  impression  on  the  multitude.  They 
have  taken  literally  what  Wagner,  with  the  'complacency  of  a 
demagogue,'  has  persuasively  said  to  them.  They  have  really 
imagined  themselves  to  be  the  '  artists  of  the  future,'  and  we 
have  lived  to  see  societies  formed  in  many  places  in  Germany 
who  wanted  to  build  theatres  of  the  future,  and  themselves  to 
perform  works  of  the  future  in  them  !  And  these  societies  were 
joined  not  only  by  students  or  young  commercial  employes  in 
whom  a  certain  propensity  for  acting  plays  comes  as  a  malady 
of  adolescence,  and  who  persuade  themselves  that  they  are 
serving  the  '  ideal '  when  with  childish  vanity  and  in  grotesque 

*  Richard  Wagner,  Gesammelte  Schriften  und  Dichtungen.    Leipzig,  1883, 
Band  X.,  p.  68. 


MYSTICISM  179 

theatrical  costume  they  gesticulate  and  declaim  before  their 
touched  and  admiring  relatives  and  acquaintances.  Nay,  old 
burgesses,  bald  and  bulky,  abandoned  their  sacred  skat,  and 
even  the  thrice-holy  morning  tankard,  and  prepared  themselves 
devoutly  for  noble  dramatic  achievements  !  Since  the  memor- 
able occasion  on  which  Quince,  Snug,  Bottom,  Flute,  Snout,  and 
Starveling  rehearsed  their  admirable  Pyranms  and  Thisbe,  the 
v^orld  has  seen  no  similar  spectacle.  Emotional  shopkeepers 
and  enthusiastic  counter-jumpers  got  Wagner's  absurdities  on 
the  brain,  and  the  provincials  and  Philistines  whom  his  joyful 
message  had  reached  actually  set  about  with  their  united 
strength  to  carry  on  the  work  of  Goethe  and  Schiller,  Mozart 
and  Beethoven. 

In  the  passages  quoted,  in  which,  in  the  most  used-up  style 
of  Rousseau,  he  glorifies  the  masses,  speaks  of  *  unnatural  cul- 
ture,' and  calls  '  modern  civilization '  '  the  cruel  oppressor  of 
human  nature,'  Wagner  betrays  that  mental  condition  which 
the  degenerate  share  with  enlightened  reformers,  born  criminals 
with  the  martyrs  of  human  progress,  namely,  deep,  devouring 
discontent  with  existing  facts.  This  certainly  shows  itself  other- 
wise in  the  degenerate  than  in  reformers.  The  latter  grow 
angry  over  real  evils  only,  and  make  rational  proposals  for  their 
remedy  which  are  in  advance  of  the  time  :  these  remedies  may 
presuppose  a  better  and  wiser  humanity  than  actually  exists,  but, 
at  least,  they  are  capable  of  being  defended  on  reasonable  grounds. 
The  degenerate  subject,  on  the  other  hand,  selects  among  the 
arrangements  of  civilization  such  as  are  either  immaterial  or 
distinctly  suitable,  in  order  to  rebel  against  them.  His  fury  has 
either  ridiculously  insignificant  aims  or  simply  beats  the  air. 
He  either  gives  no  earnest  thought  to  improvement,  or  hatches 
astoundingly  mad  projects  for  making  the  world  happy.  His 
fundamental  frame  of  mind  is  persistent  rage  against  everything 
and  everyone,  which  he  displays  in  venomous  phrases,  savage 
threats,  and  the  destructive  mania  of  wild  beasts.  Wagner  is  a 
good  specimen  of  this  species.  He  would  like  to  crush  '  political 
and  criminal  civilization,' as  he  expresses  it.  In  what, however,  does 
the  corruption  of  society  and  the  untenableness  of  the  condition 
of  everything  reveal  themselves  to  him  ?  In  the  fact  that  operas 
are  played  with  tripping  airs,  and  ballets  are  performed  !  And 
how  shall  humanity  attain  its  salvation  !  By  performing  the 
musical  drama  of  the  future  !  It  is  to  be  hoped  that  no  criticism 
of  this  universal  plan  of  salvation  will  be  demanded  of  me. 

Wagner  is  a  declared  anarchist.  He  distinctly  develops  the 
teaching  of  this  faction  in  the  Art-work  of  the  Future  (p.  217)  : 
'  All  men  have  but  one  common  need  .  .  .  the  need  of  living  and 
being  happy.  Herein  lies  the  natural  bond  between  all  men.  .  .  . 
It  is  only  the  special  needs  which,  according  to  time,  place,  and 


i8o  DEGENERATION 

individuality,  make  themselves  known  and  increase,  which  in  the 
rational  condition  of  future  humanity  can  serve  as  a  basis  for 
special  associations.  .  .  .  These  associations  will  change,  will 
take  another  form,  dissolve  and  reconstitute  themselves  accord- 
ing as  those  needs  change  and  reappear.'*  He  does  not  conceal 
the  fact  that  this  'rational  condition  of  future  humanity  'can  be 
brought  about  only  by  force '  (p.  228).  '  Necessity  must  force 
us,  too,  through  the  Red  Sea  if  we,  purged  of  our  shame,  are  to 
reach  the  Promised  Land.  We  shall  not  be  drowned  in  it ;  it  is 
destructive  only  to  the  Pharaohs  of  this  world,  who  have  once 
already  been  swallowed  up — man  and  horse  .  ,  .  the  arrogant, 
proud  Pharaohs  who  then  forgot  that  once  a  poor  shepherd's 
son  with  his  shrewd  advice  had  saved  their  land  from  starva- 
tion.' 

Together  with  this  anarchistic  acerbity,  there  is  another 
feeling  that  controls  the  entire  conscious  and  unconscious 
mental  life  of  Wagner,  viz.,  sexual  emotion.  He  has  been 
throughout  his  life  an  erotic  (in  a  psychiatric  sense),  and  all  his 
ideas  revolve  about  woman.  The  most  ordinary  incitements, 
even  those  farthest  removed  from  the  province  of  the  sexual 
instinct,  never  fail  to  awaken  in  his  consciousness  voluptuous 
images  of  an  erotic  character,  and  the  bent  of  the  automatic 
association  of  ideas  is  in  liim  always  directed  towards  this  pole 
of  his  thought.  In  this  connection  let  this  passage  be  read 
from  the  Art-work  of  the  Future  (p.  44),  where  he  seeks  to 
demonstrate  the  relation  between  the  art  of  dancing,  music,  and 
poetry  :  '  In  the  contemplation  of  this  ravishing  dance  of  the 
most  genuine  and  noblest  muses,  of  the  artistic  man  [?],  we  now 
see  the  three  arm-in-arm  lovingly  entwined  up  to  their  necks  ; 
then  this,  then  that  one,  detaching  herself  from  the  entwinement, 
as  if  to  display  to  the  others  her  beautiful  form  in  complete 
separation,  touching  the  hands  of  the  others  only  with  the 
extreme  tips  of  her  fingers  ;  now  the  one,  entranced  by  a  back- 
ward glance  at  the  twin  forms  of  her  closely  entwined  sisters, 
bending  towards  them  ;  then  two,  carried  away  by  the  allure- 
ments of  the  one  [!]  greeting  her  in  homage  ;  finally  all,  in  close 
embrace,  breast  to  breast,  limb  to  limb,  in  an  ardent  kiss  of  love, 
coalescing  in  one  blissfully  living  shape.  This  is  the  love  and 
life,  the  joy  and  wooing  of  art,'  etc.  (Observe  the  word-play  : 
Lieben  und  Leben,  Freuen  jind  Freien  I)  Wagner  here  visibly 
loses  the  thread  of  his  argument  ;  he  neglects  what  he  really 
wishes  to  say,  and  revels   in  the  picture  of  the  three  dancing 

■*  Compare  also,  in  Das  Bithnenweihfesispiel  in  Bayrevth,  1882  {Gesani- 
tnelte  Schriflen,  Band  X.,  p.  384)  :  '  This  [the  '  sure  rendering  of  all  events 
on,  above,  under,  behind,  and  before  the  stage']  anarchy  accomplishes, 
because  each  individual  does  what  he  wishes  to  do,  namely  (.?),  what  is 
right.' 


MYSTICISM  i8i 

maidens,  who  have  arisen  before  his  mind^s  eye,  following  with 
lascivious  longing  the  outline  of  their  forms  and  their  seductive 
movements. 

The  shameless  sensuality  which  prevails  in  his  dramatic 
poems  has  impressed  all  his  critics,  Hanslick*  speaks  of  the 
'bestial  sensuality'  in  Rheingold,  and  says  of  Siegfried:  'The 
feverish  accents,  so  much  beloved  by  Wagner,  of  an  insatiable 
sensuality,  blazing  to  the  uttermost  limits — this  ardent  moan- 
ing, sighing,  crying,  and  sinking  to  the  ground,  move  us  with 
repugnance.  The  text  of  these  love-scenes  becomes  sometimes, 
in  its  exuberance,  sheer  nonsense.'  Compare  in  the  first  act  of 
the  Walkure,-\  in  the  scene  between  Siegmund  and  Sieglinde,  the 
following  stage  directions  ;  '  Hotly  interrupting  ' ;  '  embraces  her 
with  fiery  passion  ' ;  'in  gentle  ecstasy '  ;  *  she  hangs  enraptured 
upon  his  neck  '  ;  '  close  to  his  eyes  ' ;  '  beside  himself  ;  '  in  the 
highest  intoxication,'  etc.  At  the  conclusion,  it  is  said,  '  The 
curtain  falls  quickly,'  and  frivolous  critics  have  not  failed  to  per- 
petrate the  cheap  witticism,  *  Very  necessary,  too.'  The  amorous 
whinings,  whimperings  and  ravings  of  Tristan  U7td  Isolde,  the 
entire  second  act  of  Parsifal,  in  the  scene  between  the  hero  and 
the  flower-girls,  and  then  between  him  and  Kundry  in  Klingsor's 
magic  garden,  are  worthy  to  rank  with  the  above  passages.  It 
certainly  redounds  to  the  high  honour  of  German  public  morality, 
that  Wagner's  operas  could  have  been  publicly  performed  with- 
out arousing  the  greatest  scandal.  How  unperverted  must 
wives  and  maidens  be  when  they  are  in  a  state  of  mind  to 
witness  these  pieces  without  blushing  crimson,  and  sinking  into 
the  earth  for  shame !  How  innocent  must  even  husbands  and 
fathers  be  who  allow  their  womankind  to  go  to  these  repre- 
sentations of  'lupanar'  incidents!  Evidently,  the  German 
audiences  entertain  no  misgivings  concerning  the  actions  and 
attitudes  of  Wagnerian  personages ;  they  seem  to  have  no 
suspicion  of  the  emotions  by  which  they  are  excited,  and  what 
intentions  their  words,  gestures  and  acts  denote ;  and  this 
explains  the  peaceful  artlessness  with  which  these  audiences 
follow  theatrical  scenes  during  which,  among  a  less  childlike 
public,  no  one  would  dare  lift  his  eyes  to  his  neighbour  or 
endure  his  glance. 

With  Waf^jner  amorous  excitement  assumes  the  form  of  mad 
delirium.  The  lovers  in  his  pieces  behave  like  tom-cats  gone  mad, 
rolling  in  contortions  and  convulsions  over  a  root  of  valerian. 
They  reflect  a  state  of  mind  in  the  poet  which  is  well  known  to 
the  professional  expert.  It  is  a  form  of  Sadism.  It  is  the  love 
of  those  degenerates  who,  in  sexual  transport,  become  like  wild 

*  Edward  Hanslick,  Musikalische  Stationen.     Berlin,  1880,  pp.  220,  243. 
f  Wagner,  Gesamntelte  Schriften  und  Dichtungeii,  Band  VI.,  p.  2>ff- 


i82  DEGENERATION 

beasts.*  Wagner  suffered  from  'erotic  madness,'  which  leads 
coarse  natures  to  murder  for  lust,  and  inspires  'higher  degene- 
rates '  with  works  like  Die  Walkiire,  Siegfried,  and  Tristan  und 
Isolde. 

Wagner's  graphomania  is  shown  not  only  by  the  substance, 
but  also  by  the  outward  form  of  his  writings.  The  reader  will 
have  been  able  to  remark  in  the  quotations  given  what  a  mis- 
use Wagner  makes  of  italics.  He  often  has  whole  half-pages 
printed  in  spaced  letters.  Lombroso  expressly  establishes  this 
phenomenon  among  graphomaniacs.-f-  It  is  sufficiently  explained 
by  the  peculiarity  of  mystical  thought,  so  often  set  forth  in  this 
work.  No  linguistic  form  which  the  mystically  degenerate  subject 
can  give  to  his  thought-phantoms  satisfies  him  ;  he  is  always  con- 
scious that  the  phrases  he  is  writing  do  not  express  the  mazy 
processes  of  his  brain  ;  and  as  he  is  forced  to  abandon  the  attempt 
to  embody  these  in  words,  he  seeks,  by  means  of  notes  of  exclama- 
tion, dashes,  dots,  and  blanks,  to  impart  to  his  writings  more  of 
mystery  than  the  words  themselves  can  express. 

The  irresistible  propensity  to  play  on  words — another  peculi- 
arity of  graphomaniacs  and  imbeciles — is  developed  to  a  high 
degree  in  Wagner.  I  will  here  give  only  a  few  examples  from 
the  Art-work  of  the  Future — p.  56:  'Thus  it  [the  science  of 
music]  acquires  through  sound,  which  has  become  speech  .  .  . 
its  most  exalted  satisfaction,  and  at  the  same  time  its  most 
satisfying  exaltation!  P.  91  :  '  Like  a  second  Prometheus, 
who  from  Thou  (clay)  formed  men,  Beethoven  had  striven  to 
form  them  from  Ton  (music).  Not  from  clay  or  music  {Thon 
or  Toil),  but  from  both  of  these  substances,  should  man,  the 
image  of  Zeus,  the  dispenser  of  life,  be  created.'  Special 
attention  may,  however,  be  called  to  the  following  astounding 
passage  (p.  103) :  '  If  fashion  or  custom  permitted  us  again  to 
adopt,    in    speech  and    writing,  the   genuine   and    true   use   of 

*  In  a  book  on  degeneration  it  is  not  possible  wholly  to  avoid  the  subject 
of  eroticism,  which  includes  precisely  the  most  characteristic  and  con- 
spicuous phenomena  of  degeneration.  I  dwell,  however,  on  principle  as  little 
as  possible  on  this  subject,  and  will,  therefore,  in  reference  to  the  charac- 
terization of  Wagner's  erotic  madness,  quote  only  one  clinical  work  :  Dr. 
Paul  Aubry,  'Observation  d'Uxoricide  et  de  Libdricide  suivis  du  Suicide  du 
Meurtrier,'  Archives  de  fAnthropologie  crvninelle,  vol.  vii.,  p.  326  :  '  This 
derangement  [erotic  madness]  is  characterized  by  an  inconceivable  fury  of 
concupiscence  at  the  moment  of  approach.'  And  in  a  remark  on  the  report 
of  a  murder  perpetrated  on  his  wife  and  children  by  an  erotic  maniac— a 
professor  of  mathematics  in  a  public  school — whom  Aubrey  had  under  his 
observation,  he  says,  '  Sa  femme  qui  parlait  facilement  et  k  tous  des  choses 
que  I'on  tient  ordinairement  le  plus  secretes,  disait  que  son  mari  ^tait  comme 
un  furieux  pendant  Facte  sexuel.'  See  also  Ball,  La  Folie  erotiqiie.  Paris, 
1891,  p.  127. 

f  Lombroso,  Genie  und  Jrrsinn,  p.  229  :  'When  the  expression  of  their 
ideas  eludes  their  grasp  .  .  .  they  resort  ...  to  the  continual  italicizing  of 
words  and  sentences,'  etc. 


MYSTICISM  183 

TicJiten  for  Dichten  (to  compose  poetry),  we  should  thus  obtain, 
in  the  united  names  of  the  three  primitive  human  arts,  Tanz-, 
Ton-,  and  TicJukunst  (dancing,  music,  and  poetry),  a  beautifully 
significant,  sensuous  image  of  the  essence  of  this  trinity  of 
sisters,  viz.,  a  perfect  alliteration.  .  .  .  This  alliteration  would, 
moreover,  be  peculiarly  characteristic,  on  account  of  the  position 
held  in  it  by  Tichtkunst  (poetry),  for  only  as  its  last  member 
would  Tichtkunst  transform  the  alliteration  into  rhyme,'  etc. 

We  now  come  to  the  mysticism  of  Wagner,  which  permeates 
all  his  works,  and  has  become  one  of  the  chief  causes  of  his 
influence  over  his  contemporaries — at  least,  outside  Germany. 
Although  he  is  irreligious  through  and  through,  and  frequently 
attacks  positive  religions,  their  doctrines  and  their  priests,  there 
have,  nevertheless,  remained  active  in  him  from  childhood 
(passed  in  an  atmosphere  of  Christian  Protestant  views  and 
religious  practices)  ideas  and  sentiments  which  he  subsequently 
transformed  so  strangely  in  his  degenerate  mind.  This  phe- 
nomenon, viz.,  the  persistence,  in  the  midst  of  later  doubts  and 
denials,  of  early-acquired  Christian  views,  operating  as  an  ever- 
active  leaven,  singularly  altering  the  whole  mind,  and  at  the 
same  time  themselves  suffering  manifold  decomposition  and 
deformation — may  be  frequently  observed  in  confused  brains. 
We  shall  meet  it,  for  example,  in  Ibsen.  At  the  foundation  of 
all  Wagner's  poems  and  theoretical  writings  there  is  to  be  found 
a  more  or  less  potent  sediment  of  the  Catechism,  distorted  as 
to  its  doctrines  ;  and  in  his  most  luxuriant  pictures,  between 
the  thick,  crude  colours,  we  get  glimpses  of  strange  and  hardly 
recognisable  touches,  betraying  the  fact  that  the  scenes  are 
brutally  daubed  on  the  pale  background  of  Gospel  reminis- 
cences. 

One  idea,  or,  more  accurately,  one  word,  has  remained  espe- 
cially deeply  fixed  in  his  mind,  and  pursued  him  throughout  his 
whole  life  as  a  real  obsession,  viz.,  the  word  '  redemption.'  True, 
it  has  not  with  him  the  value  it  possesses  in  the  language  of 
theology.  To  the  theologian  '  redemption,'  this  central  idea  of  the 
whole  Christian  doctrine,  signifies  the  sublime  act  of  superhuman 
love,  which  freely  takes  upon  itself  the  greatest  suffering,  and 
gladly  bears  it,  that  it  may  free  from  the  power  of  evil  those 
whose  strength  is  insufficient  for  such  a  task.  So  understood, 
redemption  presupposes  three  things.  Firstly,  we  must  assume 
a  dualism  in  nature,  most  distinctly  developed  in  the  Zend 
religion  ;  the  existence  of  a  first  principle  of  good  and  one  of 
evil,  between  which  mankind  is  placed,  and  becomes  the  cause 
of  their  strife.  Secondly,  the  one  who  is  to  be  redeemed  must  be 
free  from  all  conscious  and  wilful  fault ;  he  must  be  the  victim  of 
superior  forces  which  he  is  himself  incapable  of  warding  off. 
Thirdly,  in  order  that  the  redeemer's  act  may  be  a  true  act  of 


l84  DEGENERATION 

salvation  and  acquire  power  to  deliver,  he  must,  in  the  fulfilment 
of  a  clearly  recognised  and  purposed  mission,  offer  himself  in 
sacrifice.  It  is  true  that  a  tendency  has  often  asserted  itself  to 
think  of  redemption  as  an  act  of  grace,  in  which  not  only  the 
victims,  but  also  sinners,  may  participate ;  but  the  Church  has 
always  recognised  the  immorality  of  such  a  conception,  and  has 
expressly  taught  that,  in  order  to  receive  redemption,  the  guilty 
must  himself  strive  for  it,  through  repentance  and  penance,  and 
not  passively  await  it  as  a  completely  unmerited  gift. 

This  theological  redemption  is  not  redemption  in  Wagner's 
sense.  With  him  it  has  never  any  clearly  recognisable  import, 
and  serves  only  to  denote  something  beautiful  and  grand,  which 
he  does  not  more  closely  specify.  At  the  outset  the  word  has 
evidently  made  a  deep  impression  on  his  imagination,  and 
he  subsequently  uses  it  like  a  minor  chord,  let  us  say  a,  c,  e, 
which  is  likewise  without  definite  significance,  but,  nevertheless, 
awakens  emotion  and  peoples  consciousness  with  floating  presen- 
tations. With  Wagner  someone  is  constantly  being  '  redeemed.* 
If  (in  the  Art-work  of  the  Future)  the  art  of  painting  ceases  to 
paint  pictures,  and  produces  thenceforth  only  decorations  for  the 
theatre,  this  is  its  *  redemption.'  In  the  same  way  the  music 
accompanying  a  poem  is  a  'redeemed'  music.  Man  is  're- 
deemed '  when  he  loves  a  woman,  and  the  people  is  '  redeemed  ' 
when  it  plays  at  the  drama.  His  compositions  also  turn  upon 
'redemption.  Nietsche*  has  already  remarked  this,  and  makes 
merry  over  it,  if  with  repulsively  superficial  witticisms.  '  Wagner,' 
he  says,  '  has  meditated  on  nothing  so  much  as  on  redemption  ' 
(a  wholly  false  assertion,  since  Wagner's  redemption-twaddle 
is  certainly  no  result  of  meditation,  but  only  a  mystical  echo  of 
childish  emotions)  ;  '  his  opera  is  the  opera  of  redemption. 
With  him  someone  is  always  wanting  to  be  redeemed — now  a 
male,  now  a  female.  .  .  .  Who,  if  not  Wagner,  teaches  us  that 
innocence  has  a  predilection  for  redeeming  interesting  sinners 
(the  case  of  Taniihciiisej')?  Or  that  even  the  Wandering  Jew  will 
be  redeemed  and  become  sedentary  when  he  marries  (the  case  of 
The  Flying  Dutchman)  ?  Or  that  depraved  old  wantons  prefer 
to  be  redeemed  by  chaste  youths  (the  case  of  Kundry)  ?  Or 
that  beauteous  maidens  like  best  to  be  redeemed  by  a  knight 
who  is  a  Wagnerian  (the  case  in  Meister singer)  ?  Or  that  even 
married  women  like  to  be  redeemed  by  a  knight  (the  case  of 
Isolde)  ?  Or  that  the  ancient  god,  after  having  morally  com- 
promised himself  in  every  respect,  is  redeemed  by  a  free-thinker 
and  an  immoral  character  (the  case  in  the  Niebelungen)  ?  How 
particularly  admirable  is  this  last  profundity  !  Do  you  under- 
stand it  ?     As  for  me,  defend  me  from  understanding  it' 

The  work  of  Wagner  which  may  be  truly  termed  '  the  opera 
*  Friedrich  Nietsche,  Der  Fall  Wagner.     Leipzig,  1S89. 


MYSTICISM  i8s 

of  redemption  '  is  Parsifal.  Here  we  may  catch  Wagner's  mind 
in  its  most  nonsensical  vagaries.  In  Parsifal  two  persons 
are  redeemed  :  King  Amfortas  and  Kundry.  The  King  has 
allowed  himself  to  become  infatuated  with  the  charms  of 
Kundry,  and  has  sinned  in  her  arms.  As  a  punishment,  the 
magic  spear  which  had  been  entrusted  to  him  has  been  taken 
from  him,  and  he  wounded  by  this  sacred  weapon.  The  wound 
gapes  and  bleeds  unceasingly,  and  causes  him  dreadful  suffering. 
Nothing  can  heal  it  but  the  spear  itself  which  gave  it.  But  '  the 
pure  fool  who  through  compassion  knows '  can  alone  wrest  the 
spear  from  the  wicked  magician,  Klingsor.  Kundry,  when  a 
young  maiden,  had  seen  the  Saviour  on  the  path  of  his  Passion, 
and  had  laughed  at  him.  As  a  penalty  for  her  act  she  is 
doomed  to  live  for  ever,  longing  in  vain  for  death,  and  seducing 
to  sin  all  men  who  approach  her.  Only  if  a  man  is  able  to 
resist  her  allurements  can  she  be  redeemed  from  her  curse. 
(One  man  has,  in  fact,  resisted  her,  the  magician  Klingsor. 
Yet  this  victorious  resistance  has  not  redeemed  her  as  it  ought. 
Why  ?  Wagner  does  not  reveal  this  by  a  single  syllable.)  It 
is  Parsifal  who  brings  redemption  to  the  two  accursed  ones. 
The  '  pure  fool '  has  no  inkling  that  he  is  predestined  to  redeem 
Amfortas  and  Kundry,  and  he  neither  undergoes  any  suffering 
nor  exposes  himself  to  any  serious  danger  in  accomplishing  the 
act  of  salvation.  It  is  true  that,  in  forcing  his  way  into  the  en- 
chanted garden,  he  is  obliged  to  have  a  small  bout  with  its 
knights,  but  this  skirmish  is  far  more  a  pleasure  than  an  effort 
for  him,  for  he  is  far  stronger  than  his  adversaries,  and,  after 
some  playful  passes,  puts  them  to  flight,  bleeding  and  beaten. 
He  certainly  resists  the  beauty  of  Kundry,  and  this  is  meri- 
torious, yet  it  hardly  constitutes  an  act  of  deadly  self-sacrifice. 
He  obtains  the  magic  spear  without  any  effort.  Klingsor  hurls 
it  at  him  to  slay  him,  but  the  weapon  '  remains  floating  above 
his  head,'  and  Parsifal  has  only  to  stretch  out  his  hand  to  take 
it  at  his  convenience,  and  then  to  fulfil  his  mission. 

Every  individual  feature  of  this  mystical  piece  Is  in  direct 
contrast  to  the  Christian  idea  of  redemption,  which  has  never- 
theless inspired  it.  Amfortas  is  in  need  of  redemption  through 
his  own  weakness  and  guilt,  not  on  account  of  an  invincible 
fate,  and  he  is  redeemed  without  any  assistance  on  his  part 
beyond  whining  and  moaning.  The  salvation  he  is  awaiting 
and  ultimately  obtains  has  its  source  completely  outside  his  will 
and  consciousness.  He  has  no  part  in  its  attainment.  Another 
effects  it  for  him,  and  bestows  it  on  him  as  a  gift.  The  re- 
demption is  a  purely  external  affair,  a  lucky  windfall,  and  not  the 
reward  of  an  inward  moral  struggle.  Still  more  monstrous  are  the 
conditions  of  Kundry^s  redemption.  Not  only  is  she  not  allowed 
to  labour  for  her  own  salvation,  but  she  is  compelled  to  employ 


l86  DEGENERATION 

all  her  strength  to  prevent  it  ;  for  her  redemption  depends  on 
her  being  despised  by  a  man,  and  the  task  to  which  she  has 
been  condemned  is  to  turn  to  account  all  the  seductive  power  of 
beauty  and  passionate  solicitation  to  win  over  the  man.  She 
must  by  all  possible  means  thwart  the  man  by  whom  her  re- 
demption is  to  come,  from  becoming  her  redeemer.  If  the 
man  yields  to  her  charms,  then  the  redemption  is  frustrated,  not 
through  her  fault,  though  by  her  action  ;  if  the  man  resists  the 
temptation,  she  obtains  redemption  without  deserving  it,  because 
in  spite  of  her  opposing  effort.  It  is  impossible  to  concoct  a 
situation  more  absurd  and  at  the  same  time  more  immoral. 
Parsifal  the  redeemer  is,  in  fine,  from  beginning  to  end,  a  mystic 
re-incarnation  of  '  Hans  in  Luck '  in  the  German  fairy-tale. 
He  succeeds  in  everything  without  personal  effort.  He  sets  out 
to  kill  a  swan,  and  finds  the  Grail  and  the  royal  crown.  His 
redeemership  is  no  self-sacrifice,  but  a  benefice.  The  favour  of 
Heaven  has  called  him  to  an  enviable,  honourable  office — on 
what  powerful  recommendation  Wagner  does  not  disclose.  But 
a  closer  examination  reveals  worse  things.  Parsifal,  the  '  pure 
fool,'  is  simply  a  precipitate  of  confused  reminiscences  of  Chris- 
tology.  Powerfully  struck  by  the  poetical  elements  of  the 
Saviour's  life  and  sufferings,  Wagner  has  been  impelled  to  ex- 
ternalize his  impressions  and  emotions,  and  has  created  Parsifal, 
whom  he  causes  to  experience  some  of  the  most  affecting  scenes 
of  the  Gospel,  and  who  in  his  hands  becomes  (partly,  perhaps, 
without  his  being  aware  of  it)  at  once  a  foolish  and  frivolous  cari- 
cature of  Jesus  Christ.  In  the  mystical  work,  the  temptation  of 
the  Saviour  in  the  desert  is  transformed  into  the  temptation  of 
Parsifal  by  Kundry.  The  scene  in  the  Pharisee's  house,  where 
the  Magdalene  anoints  the  Saviour's  feet,  is  reproduced  exactly  : 
Kundry  bathes  and  anoints  Parsifal's  feet,  and  dries  them  with 
her  unbound  hair  ;  and  the  '  pure  fool '  plagiarizes  the  words  of 
Christ,  '  Thy  sins  be  forgiven  thee,'  in  this  exclamation  :  '  Thus 
I  accomplish  my  first  office;  be  baptized  and  believe  on  the 
Redeemer.'  That  the  ordinary  theatre-goer  is  not  shocked  by 
this  misused  application  of  the  Christ  legend — nay,  that  in  the 
distorted  fragments  of  the  Gospel  he  is  able  to  revive  some  of 
the  emotions  it  perhaps  at  one  time  excited  in  him — is  con- 
ceivable. But  it  is  incomprehensible  that  earnest  believers,  and 
especially  zealous  fanatics,  have  never  perceived  what  a  profana- 
tion of  their  most  sacred  ideas  is  perpetrated  by  Wagner,  when 
he  endows  his  Parsifal  with  traits  of  the  Christ  Himself 

We  may  mention  only  one  of  the  other  absurd  details  of  the 
Parsifal.  The  aged  Titurel  has  succumbed  to  the  earthly  penalty 
of  death,  but  through  the  Saviour's  mercy  continues  to  live  in  the 
grave.  The  sight  of  the  Grail  continually  renews  for  a  time  his 
waning  vital  strength.     Titurel  seems  to  attach  a  great  value  to 


MYSTICISM  187 

this  comfortless  Hfe-in-death  existence.  *  By  the  mercy  of  the 
Saviour  I  live  in  the  tomb,'  he  joyously  cries  from  his  coffin, 
demanding  with  impetuous  vehemence  that  the  Grail  be  shown 
him,  in  order  that  his  life  may  thereby  be  prolonged.  'Am  I 
to-day  to  see  once  more  the  Grail  and  live?'  he  asks  in  anguish, 
and  because  he  receives  no  immediate  answer  thus  laments, 
*  Must  I  die  unaccompanied  by  the  Deliverer  ?'  His  son, 
Amfortas,  hesitates,  whereupon  the  old  man  gives  his  orders  : 
'  Unveil  the  Grail  !  The  benediction  !'  And  when  his  wishes 
are  complied  with,  he  exults  :  '  Oh,  sacred  bliss  !  How  bright 
the  Lord  doth  greet  us  to-day  !'  Subsequently  Amfortas  has 
for  some  time  neglected  the  unveiling  of  the  Grail,  and  hence 
Titurel  has  had  to  die.  Amfortas  is  in  despair.  'My  father! 
highly  blessed  of  heroes !...!,  who  alone  was  fain  to  die,  to 
thee  have  I  given  death  !'  From  all  this  it  undoubtedly  results 
that  all  the  persons  concerned  see  in  life,  even  if  it  be  the 
shadowy  and  empty  life  of  a  being  already  laid  in  his  coffin, 
an  exceedingly  precious  possession,  and  in  death  a  bitter  mis- 
fortune. And  this  takes  place  in  the  same  piece  in  which 
Kundry  endures  eternal  life  as  a  frightful  curse,  and  passionately 
longs  for  death  as  a  most  delicious  salvation !  Is  a  more  ridicu- 
lous contradiction  conceivable  ?  Moreover,  the  Titurel  episode 
is  a  denial  of  all  the  premises  of  Parsifal,  constructed  as  it  is 
on  the  foundation  of  the  religious  idea  of  personal  persistence 
after  death.  How  can  death  frighten  the  man  who  is  convinced 
that  the  bliss  of  paradise  awaits  him  ?  We  are  here  in  the 
presence  of  the  same  non-comprehension  of  his  own  assumptions 
which  has  already  struck  us  in  Dante  Gabriel  Rossetti  and 
Tolstoi.  But  this  is  precisely  the  peculiarity  of  morbidly  mystic 
thought.  It  unites  mutually  exclusive  ideas  ;  it  shuns  the  law 
of  consistency,  and  imperturbably  combines  details  which  are 
dumfounded  at  finding  themselves  in  company.  We  do  not 
observe  this  phenomenon  in  one  who  is  a  mystic  through  igno- 
rance, mental  indolence,  or  imitation.  He  may  take  an  absurd 
idea  as  a  point  of  departure  for  a  train  of  thought  ;  but 
the  latter  unrolls  itself  rationally  and  consistently,  and  suffers 
no  gross  contradiction  among  its  particular  members. 

As  Christology  inspired  Wagner  with  the  figures  of  Parsifal, 
so  did  the  Eucharist  inspire  him  with  the  most  effective  scene 
of  the  piece — the  love-feast  of  the  Grail.  It  is  the  inise-en-scene 
of  the  Catholic  Mass,  with  the  heretical  addition  of  one 
Protestant  feature — the  partaking  by  the  communicants  of  the 
elements  in  both  kinds.  The  unveiling  of  the  Grail  corresponds 
to  the  elevation  of  the  Host.  The  acolytes  take  the  form  of  the 
choir  of  boys  and  youths.  In  the  antiphonal  songs  and  the 
actions  of  Amfortas,  we  find  approximations  to  all  four  parts  of 
the  Mass.     The  knights  of  the  Grail  intone  a  sort  of  stunted 


i88  DEGENERATION 

introit,  the  long  plaint  of  Amfortas :  '  No  !  Let  it  not  be  un- 
veiled !  Oh,  may  no  one,  no  one,  fathom  the  depths  of  this 
torment !'  etc.,  may  be  regarded  as  a  Confiteor.  The  boys  sing 
the  offertory  ('  Take  ye  my  blood  for  the  sake  of  our  love  !'  etc.). 
Amfortas  proceeds  to  the  consecration  ;  all  partake  in  the 
Communion,  and  there  is  even  a  parodied  reminiscence  of  the 
*  Ite,  missa  est '  in  Gurnemanz's  exclamation,  '  Go  out  hence 
upon  thy  way !'  Since  Constantine  the  Great,  since  the  eleva- 
tion of  Christianity  to  the  rank  of  a  State  religion,  no  poet  has 
dared  do  what  Wagner  has  done  ;  he  has  drawn  theatrical 
effects  from  the  incomparable  rich  emotional  content  of  the 
function  of  the  Mass.  He  felt  profoundly  the  symbolism  of  the 
Lord's  Supper ;  it  provoked  in  him  a  powerful  mystical  excite- 
ment, and  the  need  arose  in  him  of  endowing  the  symbolical 
event  with  a  dramatic  form,  and  of  sensuously  experiencing  in 
all  its  details  and  in  its  entirety  that  which  in  the  sacrifice  of 
the  Mass  is  only  indicated,  condensed,  and  spiritualized.  He 
wished  to  see  and  feel  in  his  own  person  how  the  elect  enjoy, 
amid  violent  emotions,  the  body  of  Christ  and  His  redeeming 
blood  ;  and  how  super-terrestrial  phenomena,  the  purple  gleam- 
ing of  the  Grail  and  the  downward  hovering  dove  (in  the  final 
scene),  etc.,  make  palpable  the  real  presence  of  Christ  and  the 
divine  nature  of  the  Eucharist.  Just  as  Wagner  has  borrowed 
from  the  Church  his  inspiration  for  the  scenes  in  the  Grail,  and 
then  for  his  own  purposes  has  popularized  the  liturgy  in  the 
style  of  the  Biblia  Pauperum,  so  does  the  audience  find  again 
the  cathedral  and  high  mass  on  his  stage,  and  import  into  the 
piece  all  the  emotions  left  in  their  soul  by  Church  ceremonies. 
The  real  priest  in  his  sacerdotal  robes,  the  remembrance  of  his 
gestures,  of  the  hand-bell  and  the  genuflexions  of  the  servers, 
the  blue  reek  and  perfume  of  the  incense,  the  pealing  of  the 
organ  and  the  play  of  chequered  sunlight  through  the  stained 
windows  of  the  church — these  are,  in  the  heart  of  the  public, 
Wagner's  collaborators  ;  and  it  is  not  his  art  which  lulls  them 
into  mystic  ecstasy,  but  the  fundamental  mood  inculcated  in 
the  vast  majority  of  white  races  by  two  centuries  of  Christian 
sentiment. 

Mysticism  is,  as  we  know,  always  accompanied  by  eroticism, 
especially  in  the  degenerate,  whose  emotionalism  has  its  chief 
source  in  morbidly  excited  states  of  the  sexual  centres. 
Wagner's  imagination  is  perpetually  occupied  with  woman. 
But  he  never  sees  her  relation  to  man  in  the  form  of  healthy 
and  natural  love,  which  is  a  benefit  and  satisfaction  for  both 
lovers.  As  with  all  morbid  erotics  (we  have  already  re- 
marked this  in  Verlaine  and  Tolstoi),  woman  presents  herself 
to  him  as  a  terrible  force  of  nature,  of  which  man  is  the 
trembling,  helpless  victim.     The  woman  that  he  knows  is  the 


MYSTICISM  189 

gruesome  Astart^  of  the  Semites,  the  frightful  man-eating  Kali 
Bhagawati  of  the  Hindoos,  an  apocalyptic  vision  of  smiling 
blood-thirstiness,  of  eternal  perdition  and  infernal  torment,  in 
demoniacally  beautiful  embodiment.  No  poetical  problem  has 
so  profoundly  moved  him  as  the  relation  between  man  and  this 
his  ensnaring  destroyer.  He  has  approached  this  problem  from 
all  sides,  and  has  given  it  different  solutions  corresponding  to 
his  instincts  and  views-  of  morality.  The  man  frequently 
succumbs  to  the  temptress,  but  Wagner  revolts  against  this 
weakness,  of  which  he  is  himself  only  too  conscious,  and  in  his 
chief  works  makes  the  man  offer  a  desperate,  but  finally 
victorious,  resistance.  Not,  however,  by  his  own  strength  does 
man  tear  himself  from  the  paralyzing  charm  of  woman.  He 
must  receive  supernatural  aid.  This  proceeds  most  frequently 
from  a  pure  and  unselfish  virgin,  who  forms  the  antithesis  to  the 
sphinx  with  soft  woman's  body  and  lion's  paws.  In  conformity 
with  the  psychological  law  of  contrast,  Wagner  invents  as  a 
counterpart  to  the  terrible  woman  of  his  inmost  perception  an 
angelic  woman,  who  is  all  love,  all  devotion,  all  celestial  mildness  ; 
a  woman  who  asks  for  nothing  and  gives  all ;  a  woman  soothing, 
caressing  and  healing ;  in  a  word,  a  woman  for  whom  an  un- 
happy creature  pants  as  he  writhes,  consumed  by  flames,  in  the 
white-hot  flames  of  Belit.  Wagner's  Elizabeth,  Elsa,  Senta, 
and  Gertrude  are  extremely  instructive  manifestations  of  erotic 
mysticism,  in  which  the  half- unconscious  idea  is  struggling 
for  form,  viz.,  that  the  safety  of  the  sexually  crazy  degenerate 
lies  in  purity,  continence,  or  in  the  possession  of  a  wife  having 
no  sort  of  individuality,  no  desire  and  no  rights,  and  hence  in- 
capable of  ever  proving  dangerous  to  the  man. 

In  one  of  his  first  compositions,  as  in  his  last,  in  Tannhcitiser 
as  in  Parsifal,  he  treats  of  the  combat  between  man  and  his 
corruptress,  the  fly  versus  the  spider,  and  in  this  way  testifies 
that  for  thirty-three  years,  from  youth  to  old  age,  the  subject 
has  never  been  absent  from  his  mind.  In  Tannhduser  it  is  the 
beautiful  devil  Venus  herself  who  ensnares  the  hero,  and  with 
whom  he  has  towage  a  desperate  conflict  for  the  salvation  of  his 
soul.  The  pious  and  chaste  Elizabeth,  this  dream-being,  woven 
of  moonlight,  prayer,  and  song,  becomes  his  'redeemer.'  In 
Parsifal  the  beautiful  devil  is  named  Kundry,  and  the  hero 
escapes  the  danger  with  which  she  threatens  his  soul  only 
because  he  is  *  the  pure  fool,'  and  is  in  a  state  of  grace. 

In  the  Walkiire  Wagner's  imagination  surrenders  itself  to  un- 
bridled passion.  He  here  represents  the  ardent  man  wildly  and 
madly  abandoning  himself  to  his  appetite,  without  regard  to  the 
dictates  of  society,  and  without  attempting  to  resist  the  furious 
impetuosity  of  his  instinct.  Siegmund  sees  Sieglinde,  and 
thenceforth   has   but   one  idea — to   possess   her.     That  she  is 


190  DEGENERATION 

another's  wife — nay,  that  he  recognises  her  as  his  own  sister — 
does  not  check  him  for  a  moment.  Those  considerations  are  as 
feathers  before  the  storm.  He  pays  for  his  night  of  pleasure  by 
his  death  the  following  morning.  For  with  Wagner  love  is  always 
a  fatality,  and  ever  round  its  pillow  blaze  the  flames  of  hell.  And 
as  he  has  not  made  manifest  in  Sieglinde  the  images  of  carnage 
and  annihilation  evoked  in  him  by  his  idea  of  woman,  he  personi- 
fies these  separately  in  the  Walkiire.  Their  appearance  in  the 
drama  is  for  him  a  psychological  need.  The  traits  inseparable 
in  his  mind  from  his  conception  of  woman,  and  ordinarily 
united  by  him  in  a  single  figure,  are  here  separated  and  raised 
to  the  dignity  of  independent  types.  Venus,  Kundry,  are  seducer 
and  destroyer  in  one  person.  In  the  Walkiire  Sieglinde  is  only 
the  seducer,  but  the  destroyer  grows  into  a  horde  of  gruesome 
Amazons,  who  drink  the  blood  of  battling  men,  revel  in  the 
spectacle  of  murderous  blows,  and  rush  with  wild,  exulting  cries 
across  the  corpse-strewn  waste. 

Siegfried,  Gotterddnimerung,  Tristan  imd  Isolde  are  exact 
repetitions  of  the  essential  content  of  the  Walkiire.  It  is  always 
the  dramatic  embodiment  of  the  same  obsession  of  the  terrors  of 
love.  Siegfried  sees  Brunhilde  in  the  midst  of  her  fire-circle, 
and  both  instantly  fall  into  each  other's  arms  in  a  rage  of  love  ; 
but  Siegfried  must  expiate  his  happiness  with  his  life,  and  falls 
under  the  steel  of  Hagen.  The  mere  death  of  Siegfried  does 
not  suffice  for  Wagner's  imagination  as  the  inevitable  conse- 
quence of  love  ;  destiny  must  show  itself  more  terribly.  The 
castle  of  Asgard  itself  breaks  out  in  flames,  and  the  slave  of 
love  in  dying  drags  to  his  own  perdition  all  the  gods  of  heaven 
along  with  him.  Tristan  und Isolde  is  the  echo  of  this  tragedy  of 
passion.  Here  also  is  the  complete  annihilation  of  the  sentiment 
of  duty  and  self-conquest,  by  the  springing  up  of  love  both  in 
Tristan  and  Isolde ;  and  here  also  is  death  as  the  natural  end 
towards  which  love  is  hurried.  To  express  his  fundamental 
mystic  thought,  that  love  is  an  awful  fatality  wherewith  the  un- 
approachable powers  of  destiny  visit  the  poor  mortal  incapable 
of  resistance,  he  has  resort  to  a  childishly  clumsy  device ;  he 
introduces  into  his  compositions  love-philtres  of  potent  spell, 
now  to  explain  the  birth  of  the  passion  itself,  and  to  indicate  its 
superhuman  nature,  as  m  Tristan  luid  Isolde ;  now  to  withdraw 
all  the  moral  life  of  the  hero  from  the  control  of  his  will,  and 
show  him  as  the  plaything  of  super-terrestrial  forces,  as  in  the 
Gdtterddmmerung. 

Thus  Wagner^s  poems  give  us  a  deep  insight  into  the  world  of 
ideas  of  an  erotically  emotional  degenerate  nature.  They  reveal 
the  alternating  mental  conditions  of  a  most  reckless  sensuality,  of 
a  revolt  of  moral  sentiment  against  the  tyranny  of  appetite,  of  the 
ruin  of  the  higher  man  and  his  despairing  repentance.     As  has 


MYSTICISM  191 

already  been  said,  Wagner  is  an  admirer  of  Schopenhauer  and 
his  philosophy.  Like  his  master,  he  persuaded  himself  that  life 
is  a  misfortune,  and  non-existence  salvation  and  happiness. 
Love,  as  the  constantly  active  incitement  to  the  maintenance  of 
the  species  and  continuance  of  life,  with  all  its  accompanying 
sufferings,  was  bound  to  seem  to  him  the  source  of  all  evil;  and, 
on  the  other  hand,  the  highest  wisdom  and  morality,  to  consist 
in  the  victorious  resistance  of  this  incitement,  in  chastity, 
sterility,  the  negation  of  the  will  to  perpetuate  the  species. 
And  while  his  judgment  bound  him  to  these  views,  his  instincts 
attracted  him  irresistibly  to  woman,  and  forced  him  during  his 
whole  life  to  do  all  that  flouted  his  convictions  and  condemned 
his  doctrine.  This  discord  between  his  philosophy  and  his 
organic  inclinations  is  the  inner  tragedy  of  his  mental  life,  and 
his  poems  form  a  unique  whole,  recounting  the  process  of  the 
internal  conflict.  He  sees  a  woman,  at  once  loses  himself,  and 
is  absorbed  in  her  charms  (Siegmund  and  Sieglinde,  Siegfried 
and  Brunhilde,  Tristan  and  Isolde).  This  is  a  great  sin,  de- 
manding expiation ;  death  alone  is  an  adequate  punishment 
(final  scenes  in  the  Walkiire,  Gotterddmnierimg,  Tristan  und 
Isolde).  But  the  sinner  has  a  timid  and  feeble  excuse  :  '  I  could 
not  resist.  I  was  the  victim  of  superhuman  powers.  My 
seducer  was  of  the  race  of  the  gods'  (Sieglinde,  Brunhilde). 
•  Magic  philtres  deprived  me  of  my  reason  '  (Tristan,  Siegfried 
in  his  relations  with  Gutrune).  How  glorious  to  be  strong 
enough  to  vanquish  the  devouring  monster  of  appetite  within ! 
How  radiant  and  exalted  the  figure  of  a  man  able  to  plant  his 
foot  on  the  neck  of  the  demon  woman  !  (Tannhauser  and 
Parsifal).  And,  on  the  other  hand,  how  beautiful  and  adorable 
the  woman  who  should  not  set  ablaze  the  hell-fire  of  passion  in 
man,  but  aid  him  in  quenching  it ;  who  should  not  exact  of  him 
a  revolt  against  reason,  duty,  and  honour,  but  be  an  example  to 
him  of  renunciation  and  self-discipline  ;  who,  instead  of  enslav- 
ing him,  should,  as  his  loving  handmaid,  divest  herself  of  her 
own  nature,  to  blend  herself  with  his  ;  in  a  word,  a  woman  who 
would  leave  him  safe  in  his  defencelessness,  because  she  herself 
would  be  unarmed  !  (Elizabeth,  Elsa,  Senta,  Gutrune).  The 
creation  of  these  forms  of  woman  is  a  sort  of  De  Profundis  of 
the  timid  voluptuary,  who  feels  the  sting  of  the  flesh,  and  im- 
plores aid  to  protect  him  from  himself. 

Like  all  the  degenerates,  Wagner  is  wholly  sterile  as  a  poet, 
although  he  has  written  a  long  series  of  dramatic  works.  The 
creative  force  capable  of  reproducing  the  spectacle  of  universal 
normal  life  is  denied  him.  He  has  recourse  to  his  own  mystico- 
erotic  emotions  for  the  emotional  content  of  his  pieces,  and  the 
external  incidents  forming  their  skeleton  are  purely  the  fruits  of 
reading,  the  reminiscences  of  books  which  have  made  an  im- 


192  DEGENERATION 

pression  on  him.  This  is  the  great  difference  between  the 
healthy  and  the  degenerate  poet  who  receives  his  sentiments  at 
second-hand.  The  former  is  able  to  '  plunge  into  full  human 
life,'  as  Goethe  says ;  to  seize  it,  and  either  make  it  enter  all 
breathing  and  palpitating  into  a  poem  which  itself  thus  becomes  a 
part  of  natural  life,  or  else  remould  it  with  idealizing  art,  suppress- 
ing its  accidental,  accessory  features,  so  as  to  make  prominent 
the  essential ;  and  in  this  way  convincingly  to  reveal  law  behind 
enigmatically  bewildering  phenomena.  The  degenerate  subject, 
on  the  contrary,  can  do  nothing  with  life  ;  he  is  blind  and  deaf 
to  it.  He  is  a  stranger  in  the  midst  of  healthy  men.  He  lacks 
the  organs  necessary  for  the  comprehension  of  life — nay,  even 
for  its  perception.  To  work  from  a  model  does  not  lie  within 
his  powers.  He  can  only  copy  existing  sketches,  and  then 
colour  them  subjectively  with  his  own  emotions.  He  can  see 
life  only  when  it  lies  before  him  on  paper  in  black  and  white. 
While  the  healthy  poet  resembles  the  chlorophyllic  plant,  which 
dives  into  the  soil,  and,  by  the  honest  labour  of  its  own  roots, 
procures  for  itself  the  nutritive  materials  out  of  which  it  con- 
structs its  blossoms  and  fruit,  the  degenerate  poet  has  the  nature 
of  a  parasitic  plant,  which  can  only  live  on  a  host,  and  receives  its 
nutriment  exclusively  from  the  juices  already  elaborated  by  the 
latter.  There  are  modest  parasites  and  proud  parasites.  Their 
range  extends  from  the  insignificant  lichen  to  the  wondrous 
rafflesia,  the  flower  of  which,  a  yard  in  breadth,  illumines  the 
sombre  forests  of  Sumatra  with  the  wild  magnificence  of  its  blood- 
red  colour.  Wagner's  poems  have  in  them  something  of  the  carrion 
stench  and  uncanny  beauty  of  this  plant  of  rapine  and  corrup- 
tion. With  the  single  exception  of  the  Meister singer,  they  are 
grafted  on  the  Icelandic  sagas,  the  epics  of  Gottfried  of  Strass- 
burg,  Wolfram  of  Eschenbach,  and  the  singer  of  the  Wartburg 
war  in  the  Manessian  manuscript,  as  on  so  many  trunks  of  half- 
dead  trees,  and  they  draw  their  strength  from  these.  Tann- 
hliuser,  the  Niebehingen  Tetralogy,  Tristan  mid  Isolde,  Parsifal, 
and  Lohengrin,  are  constructed  entirely  from  materials  supplied 
him  by  ancient  literature.  Rienzi  he  derives  from  written  history, 
and  the  Fliegender  Hollander  from  the  tradition  already  utilized 
a  hundred  times.  Among  popular  legends,  that  of  the  Wandering 
Jew  has  made  the  deepest  impression  on  his  mind,  on  account 
of  its  mysticism.  He  has  elaborated  it  once  in  the  Fliegendef 
Hollander  ;  a  second  time  transposed  it  feature  for  feature  into 
a  feminine  form  in  the  person  of  Kundry,  not  without  weaving 
into  this  inversion  some  reminiscences  of  the  legend  of  Herodias. 
All  this  is  patchwork  and  dilettantism.  Wagner  deceives  himself 
(probably  unconsciously)  as  to  his  incapacity  for  creating  human 
beings,  representing,  not  men,  but  gods  and  demigods,  demons 
and  spectres,  whose  deeds  are  not  to  be  explained  by  human 


MYSTICISM 


193 


motives,  but  by  mysterious  destinies,  curses  and  prophecies, 
fatal  and  masjic  forces.  That  which  passes  before  our  eyes  in 
Wagner's  pieces  is  not  life,  but  spectres,  witches'  sabbaths,  or 
dreams.  He  is  a  dealer  in  old  clothes,  who  has  bought  at 
second-hand  the  cast-off  garments  of  fairy-tales,  and  makes  of 
them  (often  not  without  clever  tailoring)  new  costumes,  in  which 
we  may  recognise,  strangely  jumbled  and  joined,  rags  of  ancient 
gala  stuffs  and  fragments  of  damascened  suits  of  armour.  But 
these  masquerading  suits  do  not  serve  for  clothes  to  a  single 
being  of  flesh  and  blood.  Their  apparent  movements  are  pro- 
duced exclusively  by  the  hand  of  Wagner,  who  has  slipped  into 
the  empty  doublets  and  sleeves,  and  behind  the  flowing  trains 
and  dangling  robes,  and  kicks  about  in  them  with  epileptic  con- 
vulsions, that  he  may  awaken  in  the  spectator  the  impression  of 
a  ghostly  animation  in  this  obsolete  wardrobe. 

Healthy  geniuses  have  also,  no  doubt,  allied  themselves 
with  popular  tradition  or  history,  like  Goethe  in  Faust  and 
Tasso.  But  what  a  difference  between  the  respective  treatment  by 
a  healthy  poet  and  a  degenerate  one  of  that  which  they  find,  of 
that  which  is  given  !  To  the  former  it  is  a  vessel  which  he  fills 
with  genuine,  fresh  life,  so  that  the  new  contents  become  the 
essential  part ;  to  the  latter,  on  the  contrary,  the  outside  is  and 
remains  the  chief  thing,  and  his  own  activity  consists  at  best  in 
choking  the  receptacle  with  the  chaff  of  nonsensical  phrases. 
The  great  poets,  too,  lay  claim  to  the  cuckoo's  privilege  of 
laying  their  &gg  in  a  strange  nest.  But  the  bird  which  issues 
from  the  egg  is  so  much  larger,  handsomer  and  stronger  than 
the  original  denizens,  that  the  latter  are  mercilessly  driven  from 
their  home  and  the  former  remains  the  sole  possessor.  When 
the  great  poet  puts  his  new  wine  into  old  bottles,  he  doubtless 
shows  a  little  indolence,  a  little  poverty  of  invention  and  a 
not  very  high-minded  reckoning  on  the  reader's  pre-existing 
emotions.  But  he  cannot  be  held  too  rigorously  accountable  for 
this  small  amount  of  stinginess,  because,  after  all,  he  gives  us  so 
much  that  is  his  own.  Imagine  Faust  deprived  of  all  the  por- 
tions drawn  from  old  popular  books  ;  there  would  still  remain 
nearly  everything  ;  there  would  remain  all  of  the  man  who 
thirsts  for  knowledge  and  seeks  for  it  ;  all  the  struggle  between 
his  baser  instincts  craving  for  satisfaction,  and  the  higher 
morality  rejoicing  in  renunciation  ;  in  brief,  just  that  which 
makes  the  work  one  of  the  loftiest  poems  of  humanity.  If,  on 
the  other  hand,  Wagner's  old  ancestral  marionettes  are  stripped 
of  their  armour  and  brocades,  there  remains  nothing,  or,  at  best, 
only  air  and  a  musty  smell.  Assimilating  minds  have  hundreds 
of  times  felt  tempted  to  modernize  Faust.  The  undertaking  is  so 
sure  of  success  that  it  is  superfluous  ;  Faust  in  dress-coat  would 
be  no  other  than  the  unaltered  embodiment  of  Goethe^s  own 
13 


194  DEGENERATION 

Faust.  But  imagine  Lohengrin,  Siegmund,  Tristan,  Parsifal, 
as  contemporaries  !  They  would  not  even  serve  for  burlesque, 
in  spite  of  the  Tannhauser  lampoon  by  the  old  Viennese  poet 
Nestroy. 

Wagner  swaggered  about  the  art-work  of  the  future,  and  his 
partisans  hailed  him  as  the  artist  of  the  future.  He  the  artist 
of  the  future  !  He  is  a  bleating  echo  of  the  far-away  past.  His 
path  leads  back  to  deserts  long  since  abandoned  by  all  life. 
Wagner  is  the  last  mushroom  on  the  dunghill  of  romanti- 
cism. This  '  modern '  is  the  degraded  heir  of  a  Tieck,  of  a 
La  Motte-Fouque — nay  more,  sad  to  say,  of  a  Johann  Friedrich 
Kind.  The  home  of  his  intellect  is  the  Dresden  evening  paper. 
He  derives  his  subsistence  from  the  legacy  of  mediaeval  poems, 
and  dies  of  starvation  when  the  remittance  from  the  thirteenth 
century  fails  to  arrive. 

The  subject  alone  of  the  Wagnerian  poems  can  raise  a  claim 
to  serious  consideration.  As  for  their  form,  it  is  beneath  criti- 
cism. The  absurdity  of  his  style,  his  shallowness,  the  awkward- 
ness of  his  versification,  his  complete  inability  to  clothe  his  feel- 
ings and  thoughts  in  anything  like  adequate  language — these 
have  been  so  often  pointed  out  and  exposed  in  detail  that  I  may 
spare  myself  the  trouble  of  dwelling  on  these  points.  But  one 
faculty  among  the  essential  constituents  of  dramatic  endowment 
cannot  be  denied  him — that  of  picturesque  imagination.  It  is 
developed  in  him  to  the  point  of  genius.  Wagner  as  a  dramatist 
is  really  a  historical  painter  of  the  highest  rank.  Nietzsche  (in  his 
skit,  Der  Fall  Wagner*)  perhaps  means  the  same  when,  without 
stopping  at  this  important  assertion,  he  calls  Wagner,  not  only 
'  magnetizer '  and  'collector  of  gew-gaws,'  but  also  a  'fresco-painter.' 
This  he  is  in  a  degree  never  yet  attained  by  any  other  dramatic 
author  in  the  whole  world  of  literature.  Every  action  embodies 
itself  for  him  in  a  series  of  most  imposing  pictures,  which,  when 
they  are  composed  as  Wagner  has  seen  them  with  his  inner  eye, 
must  overwhelm  and  enrapture  the  beholder.  The  reception  of 
the  guests  in  the  hall  of  the  Wartburg  ;  the  arrival  and  departure 
of  Lohengrin  in  the  boat  drawn  by  the  swan ;  the  gambols  of 
the  Rhine  maidens  in  the  river ;  the  defiling  of  the  gods  over 
the  rainbow-bridge  towards  the  castle  of  Asgard  ;  the  bursting 
of  the  moonlight  into  Hunding's  hut;  the  ride  of  the  Walkiire 
over  the  battlefield  ;  Brunhilde  in  the  circle  of  fire  ;  the  final 
scene  in  Gotterddininerung,  where  Brunhilde  flings  herself  on  to 
her  horse  and  leaps  into  the  midst  of  the  funeral-pyre,  while 
Hagen  throws  himself  into  the  surging  Rhine,  and  the  heavens 
are  aflame  with  the  glow  from  the  burning  palace  of  the  gods  ;  the 
love-feast  of  the  knights  in  the  castle  of  the  Grail  ;  the  obsequies 
of  Titurel  and  the  healing  of  Amfortas — these  are  pictures  to 

*  Der  Fall  Wagner.  Eitt  Musikattten-Problem.   2t<>Auflage.   Leipzig,  1889. 


MYSTICISM  195 

which  nothing  hitherto  in  art  approaches.  It  is  on  account  of 
this  gift  for  inventing  incomparably  imposing  spectacles  that 
Nietzsche  has  termed  Wagner  a 'comedian.'  The  word  signifies 
nothing,  and,  in  so  far  as  it  may  contain  a  tinge  of  contempt,  is 
unjust.  Wagner  is  no  comedian,  but  a  born  painter.  If  he  had 
been  a  healthy  genius,  endowed  with  intellectual  equilibrium, 
that  is  what  he  would  undoubtedly  have  become.  His  inner 
vision  would  have  forced  the  brush  into  his  hand,  and  con- 
strained him  to  realize  it  on  canvas,  by  means  of  colour. 
Leonardo  da  Vinci  had  the  same  gift.  It  made  him  the  greatest 
painter  the  world  had  yet  known,  and  at  the  same  time  the 
unsurpassed  deviser  and  organizer  of  fetes,  pageants,  triumphs, 
and  allegorical  plays,  which,  perhaps  more  than  his  genius  as 
a  painter,  won  for  him  the  admiration  of  his  princely  patrons 
Ludovico  Moro,  Isabella  of  Aragon,  Caesar  Borgia,  Charles  VIII., 
Louis  XII.,  Francis  I.  But  Wagner,  as  is  the  case  with  all 
the  degenerate,  did  not  see  clearly  into  his  own  nature.  He  did 
not  understand  his  natural  impulses.  Perhaps  also,  with  the 
feeling  of  his  own  deep  organic  feebleness,  he  dreaded  the  heavy 
labour  of  drawing  and  painting,  and,  conformably  with  the  law 
of  least  effort,  his  instinct  sought  vent  in  the  theatre,  where  his 
inner  visions  were  embodied  by  others — the  decorative  painters, 
machinists,  and  actors — without  requiring  him  to  exert  himself. 
His  pictures  have  unquestionably  a  large  share  in  the  effect 
produced  by  his  pieces.  They  are  admired  without  an  inquiry 
into  how  far  their  introduction  is  warranted  by  the  rational  course 
of  the  drama.  However  nonsensical  as  part  of  an  action,  they 
justify  their  appearance,  from  an  artistic  standpoint,  by  their 
intrinsic  beauty,  which  makes  of  them  independent  aesthetical 
phenomena.  Through  their  enormous  aggrandizement  by  the 
media  of  the  stage,  their  pictorial  allurements  are  perceptible 
even  to  the  eye  of  the  most  crass  Philistine,  whose  sense  were 
otherwise  dead  to  them. 

Of  Wagner  the  musician,  more  important  to  all  appearance 
than  Wagner  the  author,  dramatic  poet  and  fresco-painter,  I 
treat  lastly,  because  this  task  will  give  us  a  clear  proof  of  his 
degeneration,  although  this  is  very  much  more  evident  in  his 
writings  than  in  his  music,  where  certain  stigmata  of  degeneration 
are  not  so  prominent,  and  where  others  appear  as  its  un- 
mistakable advantages.  The  incoherence  in  words,  noticeable 
at  once  to  an  attentive  person,  does  not  exhibit  itself  in  music 
unless  it  is  excessively  strongly  marked  ;  the  absurdity,  the  con- 
tradictions, the  twaddle,  are  hardly  apparent  in  the  language  of 
tones,  because  it  is  not  the  function  of  music  to  express  an  exact 
meaning,  and  emotionalism  is  not  in  it  an  indication  of  disease, 
since  emotion  is  music's  proper  essence. 

We  know,  moreover,  that  high  musical  talent  is  compatible 


196  DEGENERATION 

with  a  very  advanced  state  of  degeneration — nay,  even  with  pro- 
nounced delusion,  illusion,  and  idiocy.  SoUier*  says  :  'We  have 
to  deal  with  certain  aptitudes  very  often  manifested  with  great 
intensity  by  idiots  and  imbeciles.  .  .  ,  That  for  music  especially 
is  often  met  with.  .  .  .  Although  this  may  seem  disagreeable 
to  musicians,  it  nevertheless  proves  that  music  is  the  least  in- 
tellectual of  all  the  arts.'  Lombroso-f-  remarks  :  '  It  has  been 
observed  that  the  aptitude  for  music  has  been  displayed  almost 
involuntarily  and  unexpectedly  among  many  sufferers  from 
hypochondria  and  mania,  and  even  among  the  really  insane.' 
He  cites,  with  other  cases,  a  mathematician  attacked  with 
melancholia,  who  improvised  on  the  piano  ;  a  woman  seized 
with  megalomania,  who  '  sang  very  beautiful  airs,  at  the  same 
time  improvising  two  different  themes  on  the  piano';  a  patient 
'who  composed  very  beautiful  new  and  melodious  tunes,' etc.  ; 
and  he  adds  in  explanation  that  those  who  are  afflicted  with 
megalomania  and  general  paralysis  surpass  other  mental  invalids 
in  musical  talent,  'and  from  the  very  same  cause  as  that  of  their 
unusual  aptitude  for  painting,  viz.,  their  violent  mental  excitation.' 
Wagner  the  musician  encounters  his  most  powerful  attacks 
from  musicians  themselves.  He  himself  bears  witness  to  it  :;j: 
'  Both  my  friends  (Ferd.  Hiller  and  Schumann)  believed  that  they 
very  soon  discovered  me  to  be  a  musician  of  no  remarkable  en- 
dowment. My  success  also  has  seemed  to  them  to  be  due  to  the 
libretti  written  by  myself.'  In  other  language,  the  same  old  story 
— musicians  regarded  him  as  a  poet,  and  poets  as  a  musician. 
It  is  of  course  convenient  to  explain  a  posteriori  the  decisive 
judgments  of  men  who  were  at  once  prominent  professionals 
and  sincere  friends  of  Wagner  by  saying  (after  he  had  attained 
success)  that  his  tendency  was  too  novel  to  be  immediately 
appreciated,  or  even  understood,  by  them.  This  solution,  how- 
ever, hardly  applies  to  Schumann,  as  he  was  a  friend  to  all 
innovations,  and  audacities,  even  differing  from  his  own,  rather 
attracted  than  shocked  him.  Rubinstein  §  still  makes  important 
reservations  in  regard  to  Wagner's  music ;  and  among  serious 
contemporary  musical  critics  who  have  witnessed  the  birth, 
development  and  triumph  of  the  Wagner  cult,  Hanslick  re- 
mained a  long  time  recalcitrant,  until  at  last,  though  not  very 
valiantly,  he  struck  his  colours  in  face  of  the  overpowering  fanati- 
cism of  hysterical  Wagnerphiles.  What  Nietzsche  (in  his  Der 
Fall  Wagner)  says  against  Wagner  as  a  musician  is  unimportant, 
since  the  brochure  of  abjuration  is  quite  as  insanely  delirious  as 

♦  Sollier,  op.  cit.,  p.  loi. 

■j"  Lombroso,  Genie  tind  Irrsinn,  p.  214  et  seq. 
%  Wagner,  Ges.  Schriften,  Band  X.,  p.  222. 

§  Rubinstein,  Musiciens  modernes.      Traduit  du  russe  par  M.  Delinest 
Paris,  1892. 


MYSTICISM  197 

the  brochure  of  deification  ( Wagner  in  Bayrentk)  written  twelve 
years  before. 

In  spite  of  the  unfavourable  judgments  of  many  of  his  profes- 
sional brethren,  Wagner  is  incontestably  an  eminently  gifted 
musician.  This  coolly-expressed  recognition  will  certainly  seem 
grotesque  to  Wagnerian  fanatics,  who  place  him  above  Beethoven. 
But  a  serious  inquirer  into  truth  need  not  trouble  himself  about  the 
impressions  provoked  by  Wagner  among  these  persons.  In  the 
first  period  of  his  productivity  Wagner  much  oftener  achieved 
compositions  of  beauty  than  subsequently,  and  among  these 
many  may  be  termed  pearls  of  musical  literature,  and  will  for  a 
long  time  enjoy  even  the  esteem  of  serious  and  rational  people. 
But  Wagner  the  musician  had  to  confront  a  life-long  enemy, 
who  forcibly  prevented  the  full  unfolding  of  his  gifts,  and  this 
enemy  was  Wagner  the  musical  theorist. 

In  his  graphomaniacal  muddle  he  concocted  certain  theories, 
which  represent  so  many  fits  of  aesthetic  delirium.  The  most 
important  of  these  are  the  dogmas  of  the  leit-motif  a.nd  of  the 
unending  melody.  Everyone  now  undoubtedly  knows  what 
Wagner  understood  by  the  former.  The  expression  has  passed 
into  all  civilized  languages.  The  leit-motif,  in  which  the 
threshed-out  discarded  'programme  music'  was  bound  logically 
to  culminate,  is  a  sequence  of  tones  supposed  to  express  a 
definite  conception,  and  appears  in  the  orchestration  whenever 
the  composer  intends  to  recall  to  the  auditor  the  corresponding 
conception.  Qy  the  leit-motif  Wagner  transforms  music  into 
dry  speech.  The  orchestration,  leaping  from  leit-motif  to  leit- 
fnotif  no  longer  embodies  general  emotions,  but  claims  to  appeal 
to  memory  and  to  reason,  and  communicate  sharply  defined 
presentations.  Wagner  combines  a  ^o:"^  notes  into  a  musical 
figure,  as  a  rule  not  even  distinct  or  original,  and  makes  this 
arrangement  with  the  auditor  : — '  This  figure  signifies  a  combat, 
that  a  dragon,  a  third  a  sword,'  etc.  If  the  auditor  does  not 
agree  to  the  stipulation,  the  leit-motifs  lose  all  significance,  for 
they  possess  in  themselves  nothing  which  compels  us  to  grasp 
the  meaning  arbitrarily  lent  them ;  and  they  cannot  have 
anything  of  this  kind  in  them,  because  the  imitative  powers 
of  music  are  by  its  nature  limited  to  purely  acoustical 
phenomena,  or  at  most  to  those  optical  phenomena  ordinarily 
accompanied  by  acoustical  phenomena,  ^y  imitating  thunder, 
music  can  express  the  notion  of  a  thunderstorm  ;  by  the  imitation 
of  the  tones  of  a  bugle,  it  can  call  up  that  of  an  army  in  such  a 
way  that  the  listener  can  hardly  have  a  doubt  as  to  the  significance 
of  the  corresponding  sequences  of  tones.  On  the  other  hand, 
it  is  absolutely  denied  to  music,  with  the  means  at  its  disposal, 
to  produce  an  unequivocal  embodiment  of  the  visible  and 
tangible  world,  let  alone  that  of  abstract  thought.     Hence  the 


198  DEGENERATION 

leit-motifs  are  at  best  cold  symbols,  resembling  written  characters, 
which  in  themselves  say  nothing,  and  convey  to  the  initiated  and 
the  learned  alone  the  given  import  of  a  presentation. 

Here  again  is  found  the  phenomenon  already  repeatedly 
indicated  by  us  as  a  mark  of  the  mode  of  thought  among  the 
degenerate — the  unconscious  moon-struck  somnambulous  way 
in  which  they  transgress  the  most  firmly-established  limits  of 
the  particular  artistic  domain,  antml  the  differentiation  of  the 
arts  arrived  at  by  long  historical  evolution,  and  lead  them  back 
to  the  period  of  the  lacustrines,  nay,  of  the  most  primitive 
troglodytes.  We  have  seen  that  the  pre-Raphaelites  reduce  the 
picture  to  a  writing  which  is  no  longer  to  produce  its  effect  by 
its  pictorial  qualities,  but  must  express  an  abstract  idea  ;  and 
that  the  Symbolists  make  of  the  word,  that  conventional 
vehicle  of  a  conception,  a  musical  harmony,  by  whose  aid  they 
endeavour  to  awaken  not  an  idea,  but  a  phonetic  effect.  In 
precisely  the  same  way  Wagner  wishes  to  divest  music  of  its 
proper  essence,  and  to  transform  it  from  a  vehicle  of  emotion 
into  a  vehicle  of  rational  thought.  The  disguise  produced 
by  this  interchange  of  costumes  is  in  this  way  complete. 
Painters  proclaim  themselves  writers ;  poets  behave  like  the 
composers  of  symphonies ;  the  musician  plays  the  poet.  Pre- 
Raphaelites  wishing  to  record  a  religious  apothegm  do  not 
make  use  of  writing,  which  leaves  nothing  to  be  desired  in  the 
way  of  convenience,  and  by  which  they  would  be  distinctly 
understood,  but  plunge  into  the  labour  of  a  highly-detailed 
painting,  costing  them  much  time,  and  which,  in  spite  of  its 
wealth  of  figures,  is  far  from  speaking  so  clearly  to  the  intelli- 
gence as  a  single  line  of  rational  writing.  Symbolists  desirous 
of  awakening  a  musical  emotion  do  not  compose  a  melody, 
but  join  meaningless,  though  ostensibly  musical  words,  capable, 
perhaps,  of  provoking  amusement  or  vexation,  but  not  the 
intended  emotion.  When  Wagner  wishes  to  express  the  idea 
of  *  giant,^  '  dwarf,'  '  tarn-cap  which  makes  the  wearer  invisible,' 
he  does  not  say  in  words  universally  understood  'giant,'  'dwarf,' 
'  tarn-cap'  (which  makes  the  wearer  invisible),  but  replaces  these 
excellent  words  by  a  series  of  notes,  the  sense  of  which  no  one 
will  divine  without  a  key.  Is  anything  more  needed  to  expose 
the  complete  insanity  of  this  confusion  of  all  the  means  of 
expression,  this  ignorance  of  what  is  possible  to  each  art } 

It  is  Wagner's  ambition  to  imitate  those  facetious  students 
who  teach  their  dog  to  say  '  papa.'  He  wants  to  perform  the 
trick  of  making  music  say  the  names  'Schulze'  and  'MLiller' 
(  =  Smith  and  Jones).  The  score  should,  when  necessary,  supply 
the  place  of  the  directory.  Language  does  not  suffice  him. 
He  creates  for  himself  a  volapiik,  and  demands  that  his  hearers 
should  learn  it.     No  admission  without  hard  work  !     Those  who 


MYSTICISM  199 

have  not  assimilated  the  vocabulary  of  the  Wagnerian  volapilk 
cannot  understand  his  operas.  It  is  useless  to  go  to  the  trouble 
of  a  journey  to  Bayreuth  if  one  cannot  talk  fluently  in  leit- 
motifs. And  how  pitiable  after  all  is  the  result  of  this  delirious 
effort!  H.  von  Wolzdgen,  the 'writer  of  the  Theuiatische 
Leitfaden  (Thematic  Guide)  to  the  Niebelungen  Tetralogy, 
finds  in  all  these  four  prodigious  works  only  ninety  leit-motifs. 
A  language  of  ninety  words,  however  inflated  they  may  be, 
such  as  '  motif  of  the  weary  Siegmund,'  '  motif  of  the  mania  for 
vengeance,'  '  motif  of  bondage,'  etc.  !  with  such  a  vocabulary 
it  would  be  impossible  even  to  exchange  ideas  about  the 
weather  with  a  native  of  Tierra  del  Fuego.  A  page  of  Sanders' 
lexicon  contains  more  means  of  expression  than  Wolzogen's 
entire  dictionary  of  the  Wagnerian  leit-motif  language.  The 
history  of  art  knows  no  more  astounding  aberration  than  this 
leit-motif  cvdiZe.  To  express  ideas  is  not  the  function  of  music  ; 
language  provides  for  that  as  completely  as  could  be  desired. 
When  the  word  is  accompanied  by  song  or  orchestra  it  is  not 
to  make  it  more  definite,  but  to  re-enforce  it  by  the  intervention 
of  emotion.  Music  is  a  kind  of  sounding-board,  in  which  the 
word  has  to  awake  something  like  an  echo  from  the  infinite. 
But  such  an  echo  of  presentiment  and  mystery  does  not  ring 
out  from  leit-motifs  coldly  pasted  together,  as  if  by  the  labour 
of  a  conscientious  registrar. 

With  the  '  unending  melody,'  the  second  of  Wagner's  tenets, 
it  is  the  same  as  with  the  leit-motif.  It  is  a  product  of  degenerate 
thoui^ht  ;  it  is  musical  mysticism.  It  is  the  form  in  which 
incapacity  for  attention  shows  itself  in  music.  In  painting, 
attention  leads  to  composition  ;  the  absence  of  it  to  a  uniformly 
photographic  treatment  of  the  whole  field  of  vision  as  with  the 
pre-Raphaelites.  In  poetry,  attention  results  in  clearness  of 
ideas,  consistency  of  statement,  the  suppression  of  the  un- 
important, and  the  giving  emphasis  to  the  essential  ;  its  absence 
leads  to  twaddle  as  with  the  graphomaniacs,  and  to  a  painful 
prolixity  in  consequence  of  the  indiscriminate  recording  of  all 
perceptions  as  with  Tolstoi.  Finally,  in  music  attention 
expresses  itself  in  completed  forms,  i.e.,  in  well-defined  melodies  ; 
its  absence,  on  the  contrary,  by  the  dissolution  of  form,  the 
obliteration  of  its  boundary  lines,  and  thus  by  unending  melodies 
as  with  Wagner.  This  parallelism  is  not  an  arbitrary  play  of 
ideas,  but  an  exact  picture  of  the  corresponding  mental  pro- 
cesses among  the  different  groups  of  degenerate  subjects,  pro- 
ducing in  the  different  arts  difi'erent  manifestations  according  to 
their  specific  means  and  aims. 

Let  us  grasp  what  melody  is.  It  is  the  regular  grouping  of 
notes  in  a  highly  expressive  series  of  tones.  Melody  in  music 
corresponds    to   what    in    language   is   a   logically -constructed 


200  DEGENERATION 

sentence,  distinctly  presenting  an  idea,  and  having  a  clearly- 
marked  beginning  and  ending.  The  dreamy  rambling  of  half- 
formed  nebulous  thoughts  as  little  allows  the  mintage  of 
sentences  of  this  kind,  as  does  the  fleeting  agitation  of  the  vague 
bewildered  emotion  lead  to  the  composition  of  a  melody.  The 
emotions,  too,  have  their  own  grades  of  distinctness.  They, 
too,  can  appear  as  chaotic,  or  as  well-regulated  states.  In  the 
one  case  they  stand  out  in  the  consciousness  which  grasps  their 
composition  and  their  purpose  as  discriminable  modes  strongly 
illuminated  by  the  attention;  in  the  other  case  they  are  a 
disturbing  enigma  to  consciousness,  and  perceived  by  it  merely 
as  a  generic  excitement,  as  a  sort  of  subterranean  trembling  and 
rumbling  of  unknown  origin  and  tendency.  If  the  emotions 
are  intelligible,  they  will  be  fain  to  manifest  themselves  in  a  form 
at  once  the  most  expressive  and  most  easily  grasped.  If,  on 
the  contrary,  they  are  a  generic  continuous  state,  without 
determined  cause  and  discoverable  aim,  the  music  presenting 
them  to  the  senses  will  be  as  blurred  and  as  nebulously  fluctuating 
in  form  as  themselves.  Melody  may  be  said  to  be  an  effort  of 
music  to  say  something  definite.  It  is  clear  that  an  emotion 
unconscious  of  its  cause  and  its  aims,  and  unilluminated  by 
attention,  will  not  raise  its  musical  expression  to  the  height  of 
melody,  precisely  because  it  has  nothing  definite  to  say. 

A  completed  melody  is  a  late  acquisition  of  music,  obtained 
by  it  only  after  long  evolution.  In  its  historic,  and  still  more  in 
its  prehistoric,  beginnings,  the  art  of  music  knew  it  not.  Music 
springs  originally  from  song,  and  the  rhythmic  noise  {i.e.,  noise 
repeated  in  equal  or  regular  intervals  of  time)  of  accompanying 
stamping,  knocking,  or  clapping  of  the  hands  ;  and  song  is 
nothing  but  speech  grown  louder  and  moving  in  wider  intervals 
through  emotional  excitement.  I  should  like  to  cite  only  one 
passage  from  the  alm.ost  unlimited  literature  on  this  hackneyed 
subject.  Herbert  Spencer,  in  his  well-known  treatise  on 
The  Origin  and  Function  of  Music,^  says :  '  All  music  is 
originally  vocal.  .  .  .  The  dance-chants  of  savage  tribes  are  very 
monotonous,  and  in  virtue  of  their  monotony  are  much  more 
nearly  allied  to  ordinary  speech  than  are  the  songs  of  civilized 
races.  .  .  .  The  early  poems  of  the  Greeks,  which,  be  it  remem- 
bered, were  sacred  legends  embodied  in  that  rhythmical,  meta- 
phorical language  which  strong  feeling  excites,  were  not  recited, 
but  chanted  ;  the  tones  and  the  cadences  were  made  musical  by 
the  same  influences  which  made  the  speech  poetical.  .  .  .  This 
chanting  is  believed  to  have  been  not  what  we  call  singing,  but 
nearly  allied  to  our  recitative  ;  far  simpler,  indeed,  if  we  may 
judge   from  the  fact  that  the  early  Greek  lyre,  which  had  but 

*  Tlie  Origin  a?id  Function  of  Music :  Essays,  Scientific,  Political  and 
Speculative.     Lonaon  :  Williams  and  Norgate,  1883  ;  vol.  i.,  p.  213  et  seq. 


MYSTICISM  201 

four  strings,  was  played  in  unison  with  the  voice,  which  was 
therefore  confined  to  four  notes.  .  .  .  That  recitative — beyond 
which,  by  the  way,  the  Chinese  and  Hindoos  seem  never  to 
have  advanced— grew  naturally  out  of  the  modulations  and 
cadences  of  strong  feeling,  we  have,  indeed,  still  current 
evidence.  There  are  even  now  to  be  met  with  occasions  on 
which  strong  feeling  vents  itself  in  this  form.  Whoever  has 
been  present  when  a  meeting  of  Quakers  was  addressed  by  one 
of  their  preachers  (whose  practice  it  is  to  speak  only  under  the 
influence  of  religious  emotion)  must  have  been  struck  by  the 
quite  unusual  tones,  like  those  of  a  subdued  chant,  in  which  the 
address  was  made.' 

Recitative,  which  is  nothing  but  speech  intensified,  and  allows 
no  recognition  of  completed  forms  of  melody,  is  therefore  the 
most  ancient  form  of  music  ;  it  is  the  degree  of  development 
reached  by  the  art  of  music  among  savages,  the  ancient  Greeks, 
and  contemporary  races  in  Eastern  Asia.  Wagner's  '  unending 
melody'  is  nothing  but  recitative,  richly  harmonized  and  ani- 
mated, but,  nevertheless,  recitative.  The  name  bestowed  by  him 
on  his  pretended  invention  must  not  mislead  us.  In  the  mouth 
of  the  degenerate  a  word  has  never  the  meaning  ascribed  to  it 
by  universal  language.  Wagner  calmly  applies  the  term 
'melody' — with  a  distinguishing  adjective — to  a  form  which  is 
actually  the  negation  and  suppression  of  mel>dy.  He  desig- 
nates unending  melody  as  an  advance  in  music,  while  it  is  really 
a  return  to  its  primeval  starting-point.  Here  there  recurs  in 
Wagner  what  we  have  so  often  laid  stress  upon  in  the  preceding 
chapters,  viz.,  that  by  a  strange  optical  illusion  the  degenerate 
regard  their  atavism,  their  morbid  reversion  to  the  most  remote 
and  lowest  grades  of  evolution,  as  an  ascent  into  the  future. 

Wagner  was  led  to  his  theory  of  unending  melody  by  his 
limited  capacity  for  the  invention  of  finite,  that  is  of  real, 
melodies.  His  weakness  in  melodic  creation  has  struck  all  im- 
partial musicians.  In  youth  his  power  in  this  direction  was 
more  abundant,  and  he  succeeded  in  creating  some  superb 
melodies  (in  Tannhaiiser,  Lohengrin,  Fliegender  Hollander^. 
With  increasing  age  this  power  became  more  and  more  im- 
poverished, and  in  proportion  as  the  torrent  of  melodic  inven- 
tion dried  up  in  him,  he  accentuated  his  theory  of  unending 
melody  with  ever  more  obstinacy  and  asperity.  Always  there 
reappears  the  well-known  device  of  concocting  a  theory  a 
posteriori  as  a  plausible  ground  for,  and  palliation  of,  what  is 
done  through  unconscious  organic  necessity.  Wagner  was  in- 
capable of  distinguishing  the  individual  personages  of  his  operas 
by  a  purely  musical  characterization,  and  therefore  he  invented 
the  leit-motif*     Experiencing  a  great  difficulty,  especially  with 

*  E.   Hanslick,  op.  cit.,  p.  233  :  '  As  the  dramatis  personae  in  "  music- 
drama"  are  not  distinguished  by  the  character  of  the  melodies  they  sing,  as 


202  DEGENERATION 

advancing  age,  in  creating  true  melodies,  he  set  up  the  postulate 
of  the  unending  melody. 

All  the  other  crotchets  of  his  musical  theory  also  find  their 
explanation  in  this  clear  consciousness  of  definite  incompetency. 
In  the  Art-work  of  the  Future  he  overwhelms  the  theory  of 
counterpoint  and  the  contrapuntists — those  dull  pedants  who 
abase  the  most  vital  of  all  arts  to  a  desiccated,  dead  mathe- 
matics— with  a  scorn  intended  to  be  biting,  but  producing  the 
effect  of  an  echo  of  Schopenhauer's  invectives  against  the 
German  philosophers.  Why .''  Because,  as  an  inattentive 
mystic,  abandoned  to  amorphous  dreams,  he  must  feel  intoler- 
ably oppressed  by  the  severe  discipline  and  fixed  rules  of  the 
theory  of  composition,  which  gave  a  grammar  to  the  musical 
babbling  of  primeval  times,  and  made  of  it  a  worthy  medium 
for  the  expression  of  the  emotions  of  civilized  men.  He  asserts 
that  pure  instrumental  music  ended  with  Beethoven  ;  that  pro- 
gress after  him  is  impossible  ;  that  *  musical  declamation  '  is  the 
only  path  along  which  the  art  of  music  can  further  develop 
itself  It  may  be  that,  after  Beethoven,  instrumental  music  will 
make  no  progress  for  decades,  or  for  centuries.  He  was  such  a 
stupendous  genius  that  it  is,  in  fact,  difficult  to  imagine  how  he 
can  be  surpassed,  or  even  equalled.  Leonardo  da  Vinci,  Shake- 
speare, Cervantes,  Goethe,  produce  a  similar  impression  ;  and,  in 
truth,  these  geniuses  have  not  yet  been  surpassed.  It  is  also 
conceivable  that  there  are  limits  which  it  is  impossible  for  any 
given  art  to  pass  at  all,  so  that  a  very  great  genius  says  the  last 
word  for  it,  and  after  that  no  progress  can  be  made  in  it.  In 
such  a  case,  however,  the  aspirant  should  humbly  say :  *  I 
know  that  I  cannot  do  better  than  the  supreme  master  of  my 
art ;  I  am  therefore  contented  to  labour  as  one  of  the  epigoni  in 
the  shadow  of  his  greatness,  content  if  my  work  expresses  some 
peculiarities  of  my  individuality.'  He  ought  not  in  pre- 
sumptuous self-conceit  to  affirm  :  '  There  is  no  sense  in  emu- 
lating the  eagle-flight  of  the  mighty  one  ;  progress  now  lies  alone 
in  the  flapping  of  my  bats'-wings.'  But  this  is  exactly  what 
Wagner  does.  Not  being  himself  endowed  with  any  great  gift 
for  pure  instrumental  music,  as  his  few  symphonic  works  suffice 
to  prove,  he  decrees  in  the  tone  of  infallibility :  '  Instrumental 
music  ended  with  Beethoven.  It  is  an  error  to  seek  for  any- 
thing on  this  well-browsed  field.  The  future  of  music  lies  in 
the  accompaniment  of  the  word,  and  I  am  he  who  is  to  show 
you  the  way  into  that  future.^ 

Here  Wagner  simply  makes  a  virtue  of  his  necessity,  and  of 

in  ancient  opera  (Don  Juan  and  Leporello,  Donna  Anna  and  Zerlina,  Max 
and  Caspar),  but  all  resemble  each  other  in  the  physiognomic  pathos  of  the 
tones  of  their  speech,  Wagner  aims  at  replacing  this  characteristic  by  so- 
called  leit-motifs  in  the  orchestra.' 


MYSTICISM  203 

his  weakness  a  title  of  glory.  The  symphony  is  the  highest 
differentiation  of  musical  art.  In  it  music  has  wholly  discarded 
its  relationship  with  words,  and  attained  its  highest  indepen- 
dence. Hence  the  symphony  is  the  most  musical  of  all  that 
music  can  produce.  To  disown  it  is  to  disown  that  music  is  a 
special,  differentiated  art.  To  place  above  the  symphony  music 
as  an  accompaniment  of  words  is  to  raise  the  handmaiden  to  a 
higher  rank  than  her  free-born  mistress.  It  will  never  occur  to 
a  composer,  whose  inmost  being  is  charged  with  musical  feeling 
and  thought,  to  seek  words  instead  of  musical  themes  for 
the  expression  of  that  in  him  which  is  yearning  for  embodi- 
ment. For  if  it  does  occur  to  him,  it  is  a  proof  that  in  his 
inmost  being  he  is  a  poet  or  an  author,  and  not  a  musician. 
The  choruses  in  the  Ninth  Symphony  are  not  to  be  cited  as 
proof  of  the  inaccuracy  of  this  assertion.  In  that  case  Beethoven 
was  overmastered  by  an  emotion  so  powerful  and  univocal,  that 
the  more  general  and  equivocal  character  of  purely  musical  ex- 
pression could  no  longer  suffice  for  him,  and  he  was  uncon- 
ditionally compelled  to  call  in  the  aid  of  words.  In  the  deeply 
significant  Biblical  legend,  even  Balaam's  ass  acquired  the 
power  of  speech  when  he  had  something  definite  to  say.  The 
emotion  which  becomes  clearly  conscious  of  its  content  and  aim 
ceases  to  be  a  mere  emotion,  and  transforms  itself  into  presen- 
tation, notion  and  judgment,  but  these  express  themselves,  not 
in  music,  but  in  articulate  language.  When  Wagner,  as  a 
fundamental  principle,  placed  music  as  an  accompaniment  to 
words  above  that  which  is  purely  instrumental,  and  not  as  a 
medium  for  the  expression  of  thought — for  in  regard  to  that 
there  can  be  no  difference  of  opinion — but  as  a  musical  form 
properly  so  called,  he  only  proved  that,  in  the  inmost  depths  of 
his  nature,  and  by  virtue  of  his  organic  disposition,  he  was  not  a 
musician,  but  a  confused  mixture  of  a  poet  feeble  in  style,  and 
a  painter  lazy  of  brush,  with  a  Javanese  'gamelang'  accompani- 
ment buzzing  in  between.  This  is  the  case  with  most  'higher 
degenerates,'  except  that  the  separate  fragments  of  their  strangely 
intermingled  hybrid  talent  are  not  so  strong  and  great  as 
Wagner's. 

The  musical  productions  in  which  Wagner  has  been  most 
successful — the  Venusberg  music  ;  the  E  flat,  G,  B  flat, '  Wigala- 
Weia'  of  the  Rhinemaidens,  repeated  one  hundred  and  thirty- 
six  times ;  the  Walkiire  ride  ;  the  fire  incantation  ;  the  murmur 
of  the  forest;  the  Siegfried  idyl;  the  Good -Friday  spell; 
magnificent  compositions,  and  highly  praised  with  justice — show 
precisely  the  peculiarly  unmusical  character  of  his  genius.  All 
these  pieces  have  one  thing  in  common  that  they  depict.  They 
are  not  an  inner  emotion  crying  out  from  the  soul  in  music,  but  the 
mental  vision  of  the  gifted  eye  of  a  painter,  which  Wagner,  with 


204  DEGENERATION 

gigantic  power,  but  also  with  gigantic  aberration,  strives  to  fix  in 
tones  instead  of  lines  and  colours.  He  avails  himself  of  natural 
sounds  or  noises,  either  imitating  them  directly,  or  awakening 
ideas  of  them  through  association,  reproducing  the  ripple  and  roar 
of  waves,  the  sough  of  the  tree-top  and  the  song  of  wild  birds, 
which  are  in  themselves  acoustic  ;  or,  by  an  acoustic  parallelism, 
the  optical  phenomena  of  the  movements  in  the  dance  of  volup- 
tuous female  forms,  the  tearing  along  of  fiercely  snorting  steeds, 
the  blazing  and  flickering  of  flames,  etc.  These  creations  are 
not  the  outgrowth  of  emotional  excitement,  but  have  been  pro- 
duced by  external  impressions  conveyed  through  the  senses ; 
they  are  not  the  utterance  of  a  feeling  but  a  reflection — i.e., 
something  essentially  optical.  I  might  compare  Wagner's  music, 
at  its  very  best,  to  the  flight  of  flying-fishes.  It  is  an  astonishing 
and  dazzling  spectacle,  and  yet  unnatural.  It  is  a  straying  from 
a  native  to  an  alien  element.  Above  all,  it  is  something  abso- 
lutely barren  and  incapable  of  profiting  either  normal  fishes  or 
normal  birds. 

Wagner  has  felt  this  himself  very  forcibly ;  he  was  quite  clear 
on  the  point  that  no  one  could  build  further  on  the  foundation 
of  his  tone-paintings  ;  for  with  reference  to  the  eff"orts  of  musi- 
cians eagerly  desirous  of  founding  a  Wagner  school,  he  com- 
plains"^ that  'younger  composers  were  most  irrationally  putting 
themselves  to  trouble  in  imitating  him.' 

A  searching  examination  has  thus  shown  us  that  this  pre- 
tended musician  of  the  future  is  an  out-and-out  musician  of 
long-ago.  All  the  characteristics  of  his  talent  point  not  forward, 
but  far  behind  us.  His  leit-motif,  abasing  music  to  a  conven- 
tional phonetic  symbol,  is  atavism  ;  his  unending  melody  is 
atavism,  leading  back  the  fixed  form  to  the  vague  recitative  of 
savages  ;  atavism,  his  subordination  of  highly  differentiated  in- 
strumental music  to  music-drama,  which  mixes  music  and  poetry, 
and  allows  neither  of  the  two  art-forms  to  attain  to  independ- 
ence ;  even  his  peculiarity  of  almost  never  permitting  more  than 
one  person  on  the  stage  to  sing  and  of  avoiding  vocal  polyphony 
is  atavism.  As  a  personality  he  will  occupy  an  important  place 
in  music;  as  an  initiator,  or  developer  of  his  ait,  hardly  any,  or 
a  very  narrow  one.  For  the  only  thing  that  musicians  of  healthy 
capacity  can  learn  from  him  is  to  keep  song  and  accompaniment 
in  opera  closely  connected  with  the  words,  to  declaim  with 
sincerity  and  propriety,  and  to  suggest  pictorial  ideas  to  the 
imagination  by  means  of  orchestral  effects.  But  I  dare  not 
decide  whether  the  latter  is  an  enlargement  or  an  upheaval  of 
the  natural  boundaries  of  musical  art,  and  in  any  event  disciples 

♦  Wagner,  Ueber  die  Anwendung  der  Musik  auf  das  Drama,  Ges 
Schrifien,  Band  X.,  p.  242. 


MYSTICISM  205 

of  Wagner  must  use  his  rich  musical  palette  with  caution  if  they 
are  not  to  be  led  astray. 

Wagner's  mighty  influence  on  his  contemporaries  is  to  be 
explained,  neither  by  his  capacities  as  author  and  musician,  nor 
by  any  of  his  personal  qualities,  with  the  exception,  perhaps,  of 
that  '  stubborn  perseverance  in  one  and  the  same  fundamental 
idea  '  which  Lombroso'''  cites  as  a  characteristic  of  grapho- 
maniacs,  but  by  the  peculiarities  in  the  life  of  the  present 
nervous  temperament.  His  earthly  destiny  resembles  that  of 
those  strange  Oriental  plants  known  as  'Jericho  roses  '  {Anasta- 
tica  asterisats),  which,  dingy-brown  in  colour,  leathery  and  dry, 
roll  about,  driven  by  every  wind,  until  they  reach  a  congenial 
soil,  when  they  take  root  and  blossom  into  full-blown  flowers.  To 
the  end  of  his  life  Wagner's  existence  was  conflict  and  bitter- 
ness, and  his  boastings  had  no  other  echo  than  the  laughter  not 
only  of  rational  beings,  but,  alas  !  of  fools  also.  It  was  not  until 
he  had  long  passed  his  fiftieth  year  that  he  began  to  know  the 
intoxication  of  universal  fame  ;  and  in  the  last  decade  of  his 
life  he  was  installed  among  the  demi-gods.  It  had  come  to  this, 
that  the  world  had,  in  the  interval,  become  ripe  for  him — and  for 
the  madhouse.  He  had  the  good  fortune  to  endure  until  the 
general  degeneration  and  hysteria  were  sufficiently  advanced  to 
supply  a  rich  and  nutritious  soil  for  his  theories  and  his  art. 

The  phenomenon  repeatedly  established  and  verified  in  these 
pages,  that  lunatics  fly  to  each  other  as  iron  filings  to  the  magnet, 
is  quite  strikingly  observable  in  Wagner's  life.  His  first  great 
patroness  was  the  Princess  Metternich,  daughter  of  the  well-known 
eccentric  Count  Sandor,  and  whose  own  eccentricities  formed 
material  for  the  chronicle  of  the  Napoleonic  Court.  His  most 
enthusiastic  disciple  and  defender  was  Franz  Liszt,  whom  I  have 
elsewhere  characterized  (see  my  Ausgewdhlte  Pariser  Brief e ; 
2^^  Auflage;  Leipzig,  1887,  p.  172),  and  of  whom  I  will  therefore 
only  briefly  remark  that  he  bore  in  his  nature  the  greatest  resem- 
blance to  Wagner.  He  was  an  author  (his  works,  filling  six  thick 
volumes,  have  an  honourable  place  in  the  literature  of  grapho- 
maniacs),  composer,  erotomaniac  and  mystic,  all  in  an  incom- 
parably lower  degree  than  Wagner,  whom  he  surpassed  only  in  a 
prodigiously  developed  talent  for  pianoforte- playing.  Wagner 
was  an  enthusiastic  admirer  of  all  graphomaniacs  who  came  in  his 
way — e.£:,  of  that  A.  Gleizes  expressly  cited  by  Lombroso-|-  as 
a  lunatic,  but  whom  Wagner  praises  in  most  exuberant  terms  ;  J 

*  Lombroso,  Genie  und  Irrsinn,  p.  225.  f  Ibid.,  op.  cit.,  p.  226. 

X  Wagner,  Religion  wtd Kunst.  Ges.  Schr.,  Band  X.,  p.  307,  note  :  'The 
author  here  expressly  refers  to  A.  Gleizes'  book,  Thalysia  oder  das  Heil  def 
Menschheit.  .  .  .  Without  an  exact  knowledge  of  the  results,  recorded  in 
this  book,  of  the  most  careful  investigations,  which  seem  to  have  absorbed 
the  entire  life  of  one  of  the  most  amiable  and  profound  of  Frenchmen,  it  might 
be  difficult  to  gain  attention  for  .  .  .  the  regeneration  of  the  human  race.' 


2o5  DEGENERATION 

and  he  even  gathered  round  him  a  court  of  select  graphomaniacs. 
among  whom  may  be  mentioned  Nietzsche,  whose  insanity 
compelled  his  confinement  in  a  madhouse  ;  H.  von  Wolzogen, 
whose  Poetische  Laut-Synibolik  might  have  been  written  by  the 
most  exquisite  of  French  *  Symbolists '  or  '  Instrumentists '  ;* 
Henri  Porges,  E.  von  Hagen,  etc.  But  the  most  important 
relations  of  this  kind  were  with  the  unhappy  King  Louis  11. 
In  him  Wagner  found  the  soul  he  needed.  In  him  he  met 
with  a  full  comprehension  of  all  his  theories  and  his  creations. 
It  may  be  safely  asserted  that  Louis  of  Bavaria  created  the 
Wagner  Cult.  Only  when  the  King  became  his  protector  did 
Wagner  and  his  efforts  become  of  importance  for  the  history 
of  civilization  ;  not,  perhaps,  because  Louis  II.  offered  Wagner 
the  means  of  realizing  the  boldest  and  most  sumptuous  of  his 
artistic  dreams,  but  chiefly  because  he  placed  the  prestige  of 
his  crown  in  the  service  of  the  Wagnerian  movement.  Let  us 
for  a  moment  consider  how  deeply  monarchical  is  the  disposition 
of  the  vast  majority  of  the  German  people  ;  how  the  knees  of 
the  beery  Philistine  tremble  as  he  reverentially  salutes  even  an 
empty  court  carriage  ;  and  how  the  hearts  of  well-bred  maidens 
flutter  with  ineffable  inspiration  at  the  sight  of  a  prince !  And 
here  was  a  real  king,  handsome  as  the  day,  young,  surrounded 
by  legends,  whose  mental  infirmity  was  at  that  time  regarded 
by  all  sentimentalists  as  sublime  '  idealism,'  displaying  un- 
bounded enthusiasm  for  an  artist,  and  reviving  on  a  far  larger 
scale  the  relations  between  Charles  Augustus  and  Goethe  ! 
From  that  moment  it  was  natural  that  Wagner  should  become 
the  idol  of  all  loyal  hearts.  To  share  in  the  royal  taste  for  the 
*  ideal '  was  a  thing  to  be  proud  of.  Wagner's  music  became 
provisionally  a  royal  Bavarian  music,  adorned  with  crown  and 
escutcheon,  till  it  should  subsequently  become  an  imperial 
German  music.  At  the  head  of  the  Wagnerian  movement  there 
walks,  as  is  fit,  an  insane  king.  Louis  II.  was  able  to  bring 
Wagner  into  vogue  with  the  entire  German  nation  (excepting, 
of  course,  those  Bavarians  who  were  revolted  by  the  King's  pro- 
digalities) ;  nevertheless,  no  amount  of  grovelling  obsequiousness 
could  by  itself  have  produced  a  fanaticism  for  Wagner.  That 
the  mere  Wagner-fashion  might  attain  to  this  height  another 
factor  was  necessary — the  hysteria  of  the  age. 

Although  not  so  widespread  as  in  France  and  England,  this 

*  '  Alberich's  seductive  appeal  to  the  water-sprites  makes  prominent  the 
hard,  mordant  sound  of  N,  so  well  corresponding  in  its  whole  essence  to  the 
negative  power  in  the  drama,  inasmuch  as  it  forms  the  sharpest  contrast  to 
the  soft  W  of  the  water-spirits.  Then  when  he  prepares  to  climb  after  the 
maidens,  the  alliance  of  the  Gl  and  Schl  with  the  soft,  gliding  F  marks 
most  forcibly  the  gliding  off  the  slippery  rock.  In  the  appropriate  Pr  (Fr), 
Woglinde  as  it  were  shouts  "  Good  luck  to  you  !"  {Prosit)  when  Alberich 
sneezes.' — Cited  by  Hanslick,  Musikalische  Stationen,  p,  255. 


MYSTICISM  207 

hysteria  is  not  wanting  in  Germany,  where  during  the  last 
quarter  of  a  century  it  has  continued  to  gain  ground.  Germany 
has  been  longer  protected  from  it  than  the  civilized  nations  of 
the  West  by  the  smaller  development  of  large  industry  and  by 
the  absence  of  large  cities  properly  so  called.  In  the  last  genera- 
tion, however,  both  of  these  gifts  have  been  abundantly  accorded 
her,  and  two  great  wars  have  done  the  rest  to  make  the  nervous 
system  of  the  people  susceptible  to  the  pernicious  influences  of 
the  city  and  the  factory  system. 

The  effect  of  war  on  the  nerves  of  the  participants  has  never 
been  systematically  investigated  ;  and  yet  how  highly  important 
and  necessary  a  work  this  would  be  !  Science  knows  what  dis- 
orders are  produced  in  man  by  a  single  strong  moral  shock,  e.g., 
a  sudden  mortal  danger  ;  it  has  recorded  hundreds  and  thousands 
of  cases  in  which  persons  saved  from  drowning,  or  present  at  a 
fire  on  shipboard,  or  in  a  railway  accident,  or  who  have  been 
threatened  with  assassination,  etc.,  have  either  lost  their  reason, 
or  been  attacked  by  grave  and  protracted,  often  incurable, 
nervous  illnesses.  In  war  hundreds  of  thousands  are  exposed  to 
all  these  fearful  impressions  at  the  same  time.  For  months 
cruel  mutilation  or  sudden  death  menaces  them  at  every  step. 
They  are  frequently  surrounded  by  the  spectacle  of  devastation, 
conflagration,  the  most  appalling  wounds,  and  heaps  of  corpses 
frightful  to  behold.  Moreover,  the  greatest  demands  are  made 
on  their  strength ;  they  are  forced  to  march  until  they  break 
down,  and  cannot  count  on  having  adequate  nourishment  or  suffi- 
cient sleep.  And  shall  there  not  appear  among  these  hundreds 
of  thousands  the  effect  which  is  proved  to  result  from  a  single 
one  of  the  occurrences  which  take  place  by  thousands  during 
war  ?  Let  it  not  be  said  that  in  a  campaign  a  soldier  becomes 
callous  to  the  horrors  encompassing  him.  That  merely  signifies 
that  they  cease  to  excite  the  attention  of  his  consciousness. 
They  are  nevertheless  perceived  by  the  senses  and  their  cerebral 
centres,  and  therefore  leave  their  traces  in  the  nervous  system. 
That  the  soldier  does  not  at  the  moment  notice  the  deep  shock 
—  nay,  even  shattering  —  he  has  experienced,  equally  proves 
nothing.  '  Traumatic  hysteria,'  *  railway  spine,'  the  nervous 
maladies  consequent  on  a  moral  shock,  are  also  frequently  un- 
observed until  months  after  the  event  occasioning  them. 

In  my  belief,  it  can  scarcely  be  doubted  that  every  great  war 
is  a  cause  of  hysteria  among  multitudes,  and  that  far  the  larger 
number  of  soldiers,  even  completely  unknown  to  themselves, 
bring  home  from  a  campaign  a  somewhat  deranged  nervous 
system.  Of  course  this  is  much  less  applicable  to  the  con- 
querors than  to  the  conquered,  for  the  feeling  of  triumph  is  one 
of  the  most  pleasurable  the  human  brain  can  experience,  and 
the  force-producing  ('  dynamogenous  ')  effect  of  this  pleasurable 


2o8  DEGENERATION 

feeling  Is  well  qualified  to  counteract  the  destructive  influences 
of  the  impressions  produced  by  war.  But  it  is  difficult  for  it 
to  entirely  annul  these  impressions,  and  the  victors,  like  the 
vanquished,  no  doubt  leave  a  large  part  of  their  nervous 
strength  and  moral  health  on  the  battle  -  field  and  in  the 
bivouac. 

The  brutalization  of  the  masses  after  every  war  has  become 
a  commonplace.  The  expression  originates  in  the  perception 
that  after  a  campaign  the  tone  of  the  people  becomes  fiercer 
and  rougher,  and  that  statistics  show  more  acts  of  violence. 
The  fact  is  correctly  stated,  but  the  interpretation  is  superficial. 
If  the  soldier  on  returning  home  becomes  more  short-tempered, 
and  even  has  recourse  to  the  knife,  it  is  not  because  the  war  has 
made  him  rougher,  but  because  it  has  made  him  more  excitable. 
This  increased  excitability  is,  however,  only  one  of  the  forms  of 
the  phenomenon  of  nervous  debility. 

Hence  under  the  action  of  the  two  great  wars  in  connection 
with  the  development  of  large  industries  and  the  growth  of  large 
towns,  hysteria  among  the  German  people  has,  since  1870, 
increased  in  an  extraordinary  manner,  and  we  have  very  nearly 
overtaken  the  unenviable  start  which  the  English  and  French 
had  over  us  in  this  direction.  Now,  all  hysteria,  like  every  form 
of  insanity,  and  for  that  matter  like  every  disease,  receives  its 
special  form  from  the  personality  of  the  invalid.  The  degree 
of  culture,  the  character,  propensities  and  habits  of  the  deranged 
person  give  the  derangement  its  peculiar  colour.  Among  the 
English,  always  piously  inclined,  degeneration  and  hysteria  were 
bound  to  appear  both  mystical  and  religious.  Among  the 
French,  with  their  highly  developed  taste  and  widespread  fond- 
ness for  all  artistic  pursuits,  it  was  natural  that  hysteria  should 
take  an  artistic  direction,  and  lead  to  the  notorious  extravagances 
in  their  painting,  literature  and  music.  We  Germans  are  in 
general  neither  very  pious  nor  very  cultivated  in  matters  of  art. 
Our  comprehension  of  the  beautiful  in  art  expresses  itself,  for  the 
most  part,  in  the  idiotic  ' ReizendP  (charming),  and  ' Entziickend  ? 
(ravishing),  squeaked  in  shrill  head-tones  and  with  upturned 
eyes  by  our  well-bred  daughters  at  the  sight  of  a  quaintly-shaved 
poodle,  and  before  the  Darmstadt  Madonna  by  Holbein,  indis- 
criminately ;  and  in  the  grunts  of  satisfaction  with  which  the  plain 
citizen  pumps  in  his  beer  at  a  concert  of  his  singing  club.  Not 
that  we  are  by  nature  devoid  of  a  sense  of  the  beautiful — I 
believe,  on  the  contrary,  that  in  our  deepest  being  we  have  more 
of  it  than  most  other  nations — but  owing  to  unfavourable  cir- 
cumstances this  sense  has  not  been  able  to  attain  development. 
Since  the  Thirty  Years'  War  we  have  been  too  poor,  we  have  had 
too  hard  a  combat  with  the  necessities  of  life,  to  have  anything 
over  for  any  sort  of  luxury  ;  and  our  ruling  classes,  profoundly 


MYSTICISM 


209 


Latinized  and  slaves  to  French  fashion,  were  so  estranged  from 
the  masses,  that  for  the  last  two  centuries  the  latter  could  have 
no  part  in  the  culture,  taste,  or  aesthetic  satisfactions  of  the 
upper  strata  of  society,  separated  from  them  by  an  impassable 
gulf.  As,  therefore,  the  large  majority  of  the  German  people 
had  no  interest  in  art,  and  troubled  themselves  little  about  it, 
German  hysteria  could  not  assume  an  artistic,  aesthetic  form. 

It  assumed  other  forms,  partly  abominable,  partly  ignoble 
and  partly  laughable.  German  hysteria  manifests  itself  in  anti- 
Semitism,  that  most  dangerous  form  of  the  persecution-mania, 
in  which  the  person  believing  himself  persecuted  becomes  a 
savage  persecutor,  capable  of  all  crimes  (the  persicut^ persicuteur 
of  the  French  mental  therapeutics)."^  Like  hypochondriacs  and 
'  hemorroi'daires,'  the  German  hysterical  subject  is  anxiously 
concerned  about  his  precious  health.  His  crazes  hinge  on  the 
exhalations  of  his  skin  and  the  functions  of  his  stomach.  He 
becomes  a  fanatic  for  Jaeger  vests,  and  for  the  groats  which 
vegetarians  grind  for  themselves.  He  gets  vehemently  affected 
over  Kneipp's  douches  and  barefoot  perambulations  on  wet 
grass.  At  the  same  time,  he  excites  himself  with  morbid 
sentimentalism  (the  'Zoophilia'  of  Magnan)  concerning  the 
sufferings  of  the  frog,  utilized  in  physiological  experiments,  and 
through  all  this  anti-Semitic,  Kneippish,  Jaegerish,  vegetarian, 
and  anti-vivisection  insanity,  there  rings  out  the  fundamental 
note  of  a  megalomaniacal,  Teutonomaniacal  Chauvinism,  against 
which  the  noble  Emperor  Frederick  vainly  warned  us.  As  a 
rule,  all  these  derangements  appear  simultaneously,  and  in  nine 
out  of  ten  cases  it  is  safe  to  take  the  proudly  strutting  wearer 
of  Jaeger's  garments  for  a  Chauvinist,  the  Kneipp  visionary  for 
a  groats-dieted  maniac,  and  the  defender  of  the  frog,  thirsting 
for  the  professor's  blood,  for  an  anti-Semitist. 

Wagner's  hysteria  assumed  the  collective  form  of  German 
hysteria.  With  a  slight  modification  of  Terence's  Homo  sum, 
he  could  say  of  himself,  '  I  am  a  deranged  being,  and  no  kind  ot 
derangement  is  a  stranger  to  me.'  He  could  as  an  anti-Semitist 
give  points  to  Stoecker.f  He  has  an  •  inimitable  mastery 
of  Chauvinistic  phraseology.  J  Was  he  not  able  to  convince 
his  hypnotized  hysterical  following  that  the  heroes  of  his 
pieces  were  primeval  German  figures — these  Frenchmen  and 
Brabanters,  these  Icelanders  and  Norwegians,  these  women  of 
Palestine  —  all  the  fabulous  beings  he   had    fetched    from    the 

*  Legrand  du  Saulle  terms  thepersecutor  who  believes  himself  persecuted, 
'persecute'  actif.'  See  his  fundamental  work  :  Le  Delire  des  Perseciitiotts. 
Paris,  1 87 1,  p.  194. 

f  Wagner,  Das  Judenthum  in  der  Musik.  Ges.  Schr.  Band  V.,  p.  83. 
Aufkldrun^en  fiber  das  Jude7ithum  in  der  Musik.     Band  VIII.,  p.  299. 

%  V^agn^r,  Deutsche  Kunst  und  Deutsche  Politik.  Ges.  Schr.    Band  VIII., 
p.  39-      Was  ist  Deutsche?     Band  X.,  p.  51  et passim. 
14 


2IO  DEGENERATION 

poems  of  Provence  and  Northern  France,  and  from  the  Northern 
saga,  who  (with  the  exception  of  Tamzhduser  and  the  Meister- 
singer)  have  not  a  single  drop  of  German  blood  or  a  single 
German  fibre  in  their  whole  body  ?  It  is  thus  that,  in  public 
exhibitions,  a  quack  hypnotist  persuades  his  victims  that  they 
are  eating  peaches  instead  of  raw  potatoes.  Wagner  became 
an  advocate  for  vegetarianism,  and  as  the  fruit  needed  for  the 
nourishment  of  the  people  in  accordance  with  this  diet  exists  in 
abundance  only  in  warm  regions  of  the  earth,  he  promptly 
advised  '  the  direction  of  a  rational  emigration  to  lands  re- 
sembling the  South  American  peninsula,  which,  it  has  been 
affirmed,  might,  through  its  superabundant  productivity,  supply 
nourishment  for  the  present  population  of  the  entire  globe.'* 
He  brandishes  his  knightly  sword  against  the  physiologists  who 
experiment  on  animals.t  He  was  not  an  enthusiast  for  wool, 
because  personally  he  preferred  silk  ;  and  this  is  the  only  hiatus 
in  the  otherwise  complete  picture.  He  did  not  live  to  witness 
the  greatness  of  the  reverend  Pastor  Kneipp,  otherwise  he 
probably  would  have  found  words  of  profound  significance  for 
the  primitive  German  sanctity  of  wet  feet,  and  the  redeeming 
power  vested  in  the  knee-douche. 

When,  therefore,  the  enthusiastic  friendship  of  King  Louis 
had  given  Wagner  the  necessary  prestige,  and  directed  the  uni- 
versal attention  of  Germany  to  him  ;  when  the  German  people 
had  learned  to  know  him  and  his  peculiarities,  then  all  the 
mystics  of  the  Jewish  sacrifice  of  blood,  of  woollen  shirts,  of  the 
vegetable  memc,  and  sympathy  cures,  were  compelled  to  raise 
their  pseans  in  his  honour,  for  he  was  the  embodiment  of  all  their 
obsessions.  As  for  his  music,  they  simply  threw  that  into  the 
bargain.  The  vast  majority  of  Wagner  fanatics  understood 
nothing  of  it.  The  emotional  excitement  which  the  works  of 
their  idol  made  them  experience  did  not  proceed  from  the 
singers  and  the  orchestra,  but  in  part  from  the  pictorial  beauty 
of  the  scenic  tableaux,  and  in  a  greater  measure  from  the 
specific  craze  each  brought  with  him  to  the  theatre,  and  of  which 
each  worshipped  Wagner  as  the  spokesman  and  champion. 

I  do  not,  however,  go  so  far  as  to  assert  that  skatX  patriot- 
ism, and  the  heroic  idealism  of  natural  cures,  rice  with  fruit, 
'  away  with  the  Jews  !'  and  flannel,  alone  made  the  hearts  of 
Wagner-bigots  beat  faster  in  blissful  emotion  when  they  were 
listening  to  his  music.  This  music  was  certainly  of  a  nature  to 
fascinate  the  hysterical.  Its  powerful  orchestral  efi"ects  produced 
in  them  hypnotic  states  (at  the  Salpetriere  hospital  in  Paris  the 

*  Wagner,  Religion  tmd  Kuftst.     Ges.  Schr.     Band  X,,  p.  311. 
f  Offenes  Schreiben  au  H^-^rrft  Ernst  von  Weber,  Verfasser  der  ScJirift: 
^  Die  Folterkanimern  der  Wissertschaft.'     Ges.  Schr.     Band  X.,  p.  251. 
X  A  game  of  cards  to  which  Teutomaniacs  are  much  addicted. 


MYSTICISM  211 

hypnotic  state  is  often  induced  by  suddenly  striking  a  gong), 
and  the  formlessness  of  the  unending  melody  was  exactly  suited 
to  the  dreamy  vagaries  of  their  own  thought.  A  distinct  melody 
awakens  and  demands  attention,  and  is  hence  opposed  to  the 
fugitive  ideation  of  the  weak  brains  of  the  degenerate.  A  flow- 
ing recitative,  on  the  contrary,  without  beginning  or  end,  makes 
no  sort  of  demand  on  the  mind  —  for  most  auditors  trouble 
themselves  either  not  at  all,  or  for  a  very  short  time,  about  the 
hide-and-seek  play  of  the  leit-motif — one  can  allow  one's  self  to 
be  swayed  and  carried  along  by  it,  and  to  emerge  from  it  at 
pleasure,  without  any  definite  remembrance,  but  with  a  merely 
sensual  feeling  of  having  enjoyed  a  hot,  nervously  exciting 
tone-bath.  The  relation  of  true  melody  to  the  unending 
melody  is  the  same  as  that  of  a  genre  or  historical  painting  to 
the  wayward  arabesques  of  a  Moorish  mural  decoration,  re- 
peated a  thousand  times,  and  representing  nothing  definite  ;  and 
the  Oriental  knows  how  favourable  the  sight  of  his  arabesques 
is  to  *  Kef — that  dreamy  state  in  which  Reason  is  lulled  to  sleep, 
and  crazy  Imagination  alone  rules  as  mistress  of  the  house. 

Wagner's  music  initiated  hysterically-minded  Germans  into 
the  mysteries  of  Turkish  Kef  Nietzsche  may  make  sport  of  this 
subject  with  his  idiotic  play  on  words  '  Sursuni — bum-bum,'  and 
with  his  remarks  about  the  German  youth  who  seeks  for 
*  Ahnung'  (presentiments)  ;  but  the  fact  is  not  to  be  denied  that 
a  part  of  Wagner's  devotees — those  who  brought  a  diseased 
mysticism  with  them  to  the  theatre — found  in  him  their  satis- 
faction ;  for  nothing  is  so  well  qualified  to  conjure  up  'presenti- 
ments,' i.e.,  ambiguous,  shadowy  border-land  presentations,  as  a 
music  which  is  itself  born  of  nebulous  adumbrations  of  thought. 

Hysterical  women  were  won  over  to  Wagner  chiefly  by  the 
lascivious  eroticism  of  his  music,  but  also  by  his  poetic  repre- 
sentation of  the  relation  of  man  to  woman.  Nothing  enchants 
an  '  intense '  woman  so  much  as  demoniacal  irresistibleness 
on  the  part  of  the  woman,  and  trembling  adoration  of  her 
supernatural  power  on  the  part  of  the  man.  In  contrast  to 
Frederick  William  I.,  who  cried  in  anger,  'You  should  not  fear, 
but  love  me,'  women  of  this  sort  would  rather  shout  to  every 
man,  *  You  are  not  to  love  me,  but  to  lie,  full  of  dread  and 
terror,  in  the  dust  at  my  feet.'  '  Frau '  Venus,  Brunhilde, 
Isolde,  and  Kundry  have  won  for  Wagner  much  more  admira- 
tion among  women  than  have  Elizabeth,  Elsa,  Senta,  and 
Gudrune. 

After  Wagner  had  once  conquered  Germany,  and  a  fervent 
faith  in  him  had  been  made  the  first  article  in  the  catechism  of 
German  patriotism,  foreign  countries  could  not  long  withstand 
his  cult.  The  admiration  of  a  great  people  has  an  extraordinary 
power  of  conviction.     Even  its  aberrations  it  forces  with  irresist- 


212  DEGENERATION 

ible  suggestion  on  other  nations.  Wagner  was  one  of  the  fore- 
most conquerors  in  the  German  wars.  Sadowa  and  Sedan 
were  fought  in  his  behalf.  The  world,  nolens  volens,  had  to 
take  up  its  attitude  with  regard  to  a  man  whom  Germany 
proclaimed  its  national  composer.  He  began  his  triumphal 
march  round  the  globe  draped  in  the  flag  of  Imperial  Germany. 
Germany's  enemies  were  his  enemies,  and  this  forced  even 
such  Germans  as  withstood  his  influence  to  take  his  side 
against  foreign  lands.  '  I  beat  my  breast :  I,  too,  have  fought 
for  him  against  the  French  in  speech  and  writing.  I  also 
have  defended  him  against  the  pastrycooks  who  hissed  his 
Lohengrin  in  Paris.'  How  was  one  to  get  off  this  duty  .^ 
Hamlet  thrusts  at  the  arras,  well  knowing  that  Polonius  stands 
there ;  hence  any  son  or  brother  of  Polonius  is  bound  resolutely 
to  attack  Hamlet.  Wagner  had  the  good  fortune  to  play  the 
part  of  the  tapestry  to  the  French  Hamlets,  giving  them  the 
pretext  for  thrusting  at  the  Polonius  of  Germany.  As  a  result, 
the  attitude  in  the  Wagner  question  of  every  German  was 
rigidly  prescribed  for  him. 

To  the  zeal  of  Germans  all  manner  of  other  things  added 
their  aid  in  favouring  the  success  of  Wagner  abroad.  A  minority, 
composed  in  part  of  really  independent  men  of  honorably  unpre- 
judiced minds,  but  in  part  also  of  degenerate  minds  with  a  morbid 
passion  for  contradiction,  took  sides  with  him  just  because  he 
was  blindly  and  furiously  maligned  by  the  Chauvinist  majority, 
who  were  a  prey  to  national  hatred.  '  It  is  contemptible,'  cried 
the  minority,  *  to  condemn  an  artist  because  he  is  a  German. 
Art  has  no  fatherland.  Wagner's  music  should  not  be  judged  with 
the  memory  of  Alsace-Lorraine.'  These  views  are  so  reasonable 
and  noble,  that  those  who  entertained  them  must  have  rejoiced 
in  them  and  been  proud  of  them.  On  listening  to  Wagner,  they 
had  the  clear  feeling,  '  We  are  better  and  cleverer  than  the 
Chauvinists,'  and  this  feeling  necessarily  placed  them  at  the 
outset  in  such  an  agreeable  and  benevolent  mood,  that  his  music 
seemed  much  more  beautiful  than  they  would  have  found  it  if 
they  had  not  been  obliged  first  to  stifle  their  vulgar  and  base 
instincts,  and  fortify  those  which  were  more  elevated,  free  and 
refined.  They  erroneously  ascribed  to  Wagner's  music  the 
emotions  produced  by  their  self-satisfaction. 

The  fact  that  only  in  Bayreuth  could  this  music  be  heard, 
unfalsified  and  in  its  full  strength,  was  also  of  great  importance 
for  the  esteem  in  which  it  was  held.  If  it  had  been  played  in 
every  theatre,  if,  without  trouble  and  formalities,  one  could  have 
gone  to  a  representation  of  Wagner  as  to  one  of  //  Trovatore, 
Wagner  would  not  have  obtained  his  most  enthusiastic  public 
from  foreign  countries.  To  know  the  real  Wagner  it  was  neces- 
sary to  journey  to  Bayreuth.     This  could  be  done  only  at  long 


MYSTICISM  213 

intervals  and  at  specified  times  ;  seats  and  lodgings  had  to  be 
obtained  long  in  advance,  and  at  great  expenditure  of  trouble. 
It  was  a  pilgrimage  requiring  much  money  and  leisure ;  hence 
'  hoi  polloi  '  were  excluded  from  it.  Thus,  the  pilgrimage  to 
Bayreuth  became  a  privilege  of  the  rich  and  well-bred,  and  to 
have  been  to  Bayreuth  came  to  be  a  great  social  distinction 
among  the  snobs  of  both  worlds.  The  journey  was  a  thing  to 
make  a  great  parade  of  and  be  haughty  over.  The  pilgrim  no 
longer  belonged  to  the  vulgar  crowd,  but  to  the  select  few  ;  he 
became  a  hadji !  Oriental  sages  so  well  know  the  peculiar 
vanity  of  the  hadjis,  that  one  of  their  proverbs  contains  an 
express  warning  against  the  pious  man  who  has  been  thrice  to 
Mecca. 

Hence  the  pilgrimage  to  Bayreuth  became  a  mark  of 
aristocracy,  and  an  appreciation  of  Wagner's  music,  in  spite  of 
his  nationality,  was  regarded  as  evidence  of  intellectual  pre- 
eminence. The  prejudice  in  his  favour  was  created,  and  pro- 
vided one  went  to  him  in  this  mood,  there  was  no  reason  why 
Wagner  should  not  have  the  same  influence  on  hysterical 
foreigners  as  on  hysterical  Germans.  Parsifal  was  especially 
fitted  completely  to  subjugate  the  French  neo-Catholics  and 
Anglo-American  mystics  who  marched  behind  the  banner  of  the 
Salvation  Army,  It  was  with  this  opera  that  Wagner  chiefly 
triumphed  among  his  non-German  admirers.  Listening  to  the 
music  of  Parsifal  has  become  the  religious  act  of  all  those  who 
wish  to  receive  the  Communion  in  musical  form. 

These  are  the  explanatory  causes  of  Wagner's  conquest, 
first  of  Germany,  and  then  of  the  world.  The  absence  of  judg- 
ment and  independence  among  the  multitude,  who  chant  the 
antiphony  in  the  Psalter  ;  the  imitation  of  musicians  possessed 
of  no  originality,  who  witnessed  his  triumph,  and,  like  genuine 
little  boys  wanting  '  to  be  taken,'  clung  to  his  coat-tails — these 
did  what  was  still  needed  to  lay  the  world  at  his  feet.  As  it  is 
the  most  widely  diffused,  so  is  Wagnerism  the  most  momentous 
aberration  of  the  present  time.  The  Bayreuth  festival  theatre, 
the  Bayrenther  Blatter,  the  Parisian  Revue  Wagnerienne,  are 
lasting  monuments  by  which  posterity  will  be  able  to  measure 
the  whole  breadth  and  depth  of  the  degeneration  and  hysteria 
of  the  age. 


214  DEGENERATION 

CHAPTER  VI. 

PARODIES  OF  MYSTICISM. 

The  artistic  and  poetic  forms  of  mysticism,  which  we  have 
studied  hitherto,  might  perhaps  inspire  doubts  in  superficial  or 
insufficiently  instructed  minds  as  to  their  origin  in  degeneration, 
and  present  themselves  as  manifestations  of  a  genuine  and 
fertile  talent.  But  beside  them  appear  others,  in  which  a  state 
of  mind  reveals  itself  which  suddenly  arrests  and  perplexes  any 
reader,  however  credulous,  and  however  accessible  to  the  sugges- 
tion of  printed  words,  and  to  self-puffing  charlatanism.  Books 
and  theories  find  publication,  in  which  even  the  unlearned 
observe  the  deep  intellectual  degradation  of  their  authors.  One 
pretends  to  be  able  to  initiate  the  reader  into  the  black  art,  and 
enable  him  to  practise  magic  himself;  another  gives  a  poetical 
form  to  definitely  insane  ideas,  such  as  have  been  classified  by 
mental  therapeutics  ;  a  third  writes  books  as  if  prompted  by 
thoughts  and  feelings  worthy  of  little  children  or  idiots.  A  great 
part  of  the  works  I  have  in  view  would  justify,  without  further 
consideration,  the  placing  of  their  authors  under  constraint. 
As,  however,  in  spite  of  their  manifest  craziness,  well-known 
critics  are  bent  upon  discovering  in  them  '  the  future,'  '  fresh 
nerve-stimulations,'  and  beauties  of  a  mysterious  kind,  and  to 
puff  them  by  their  chatter  to  gaping  simpletons  as  revelations 
of  genius,  it  is  not  superfluous  to  devote  some  brief  considera- 
tion to  them. 

A  not  very  large  amount  of  mysticism  leads  to  belief;  a 
larger  amount  leads  necessarily  to  superstition,  and  the  more 
confused,  the  more  deranged,  the  mind  is,  so  much  the  crazier 
will  be  the  kind  of  superstition.  In  England  and  America  this 
most  frequently  takes  the  form  of  spiritualism  and  the  founding 
of  sects.  The  hysterical  and  deranged  receive  spiritual  inspira- 
tions, and  begin  to  preach  and  prophesy,  or  they  conjure  up 
spirits  and  commune  with  the  dead.  In  English  fiction  ghost- 
stories  have  begun  to  occupy  a  large  place,  and  in  English 
newspapers  to  act  glibly  as  stopgaps,  as  was  done  formerly  in 
the  Continental  press  by  the  sea-serpent  and  the  Flying  Dutch- 
man. A  society  has  been  formed  which  has  for  its  object  the 
collecting  of  ghost-stories,  and  testing  their  authenticity  ;  and 
even  literary  men  of  renown  have  been  seized  with  the  vertigo 
of  the  supernatural,  and  condescend  to  serve  as  vouchers  for  the 
most  absurd  aberrations. 

In  Germany,  too,  spiritualism  has  found  an  entrance,  although, 
on  the  whole,  it  has  not  gained   much  ground.     In  the  large 


MYSTICISM  215 

towns  there  may  be  some  small  spiritualist  bodies.  The  English 
expression  trance  has  become  so  familiar  to  some  deranged 
persons  that  they  have  adopted  it  in  German  as  trans,  imagining 
apparently,  with  the  popular  etymology,  that  it  means  '  beyond ' 
instead  of  '  ecstasy,'  or,  in  other  words,  the  state  in  which, 
according  to  the  spiritualist  hypothesis,  the  medium  ought  to  find 
himself  who  enters  into  communication  with  the  world  of  spirits. 
Nevertheless,  spiritualism  has  as  yet  exerted  little  influence 
on  our  literature.  Excluding  the  later  romanticists  who  have 
fallen  into  childishness,  notably  the  authors  of  tragedies  based 
on  the  idea  of  *  fatality  '  {Schicksalstragodien),  few  writers  have 
dared  to  introduce  the  supernatural  into  their  creations  other- 
wise than  allegorically.  At  most  in  Kleist  and  Kerner  it  attains 
a  certain  importance,  and  healthy  readers  do  not  consider  that  as 
a  merit  in  the  dramas  of  the  unfortunate  author  of  the  Hennanns- 
schlacht,  and  in  the  Seer  of  Prevorst  of  the  Swabian  poet.  On 
the  other  hand,  it  must  certainly  be  noted  that  it  is  the  ghost 
element  precisely  which  has  brought  to  these  two  writers,  in 
recent  times,  a  renewal  of  youth  and  popularity  among  de- 
generate and  hysterical  Germans.  Maximilian  Perty,  who  was 
evidently  born  too  soon,  met  with  but  rare  and  even  rather 
derisive  notice  from  the  less  soft-headed  generation  which 
preceded  ours,  for  his  bulky  books  on  apparitions.  And,  among 
contemporaries,  none  but  Freiherr  Karl  du  Prel  has  chosen  the 
spirit  world  as  the  special  subject  of  his  theoretic  writings  and 
novels.  After  all,  our  plays,  our  tales,  are  very  little  haunted, 
scarcely  enough  to  make  a  schoolgirl  shiver  ;  and  even  among 
the  eminent  foreign  authors  best  known  in  Germany,  such,  for 
example,  as  Tourgenieff,  it  is  not  the  world  of  apparitions  which 
attracts  German  readers. 

The  few  ghost-seers  whom  we  have  at  present  in  Germany 
endeavour  naturally  to  give  their  mental  derangement  a 
scientific  colouring,  and  appeal  to  individual  professors  of 
mathematics  and  natural  science  who  happen  entirely  to  agree 
with  them,  or  are  supposed  to  be  partially  inclined  to  do  so. 
However,  their  one  sheet-anchor  is  ZoUner,,  who  is  simply  a  sad 
proof  of  the  fact  that  a  professorship  is  no  protection  from  mad- 
ness ;  and  they  can  besides,  at  any  rate,  point  to  opportune 
remarks  of  Helmholtz  and  other  mathematicians  on  n  dimen- 
sions, which  they,  either  intentionally  or  from  mystical  weakness 
of  mind,  have  misunderstood.  In  an  analytical  problem  the 
mathematician,  instead  of  one,  two,  or  three  dimensions,  may 
place  n  dimensions  without  altering  thereby  the  law  of  the 
problem  and  its  legitimately  resulting  corollaries,  but  it  does 
not  occur  to  him  to  imagine,  under  the  geometrical  expression, 
'wth  dimension,'  something  given  in  space,  and  capable  of  being 
apprehended  by  the  senses.     When  ZoUner  gives  the  well-known 


2l6  DEGENERATION 

example  of  the  inversion  of  the  india-rubber  ring  which,  because 
only  possible  in  the  third  dimension,  necessarily  appeared  quite 
inconceivable  and  supernatural  to  a  bi-dimensional  being,  he 
believes  that  he  facilitates  the  comprehension  of  the  formation  of 
a  knot  in  a  closed  ring  as  an  operation  practicable  in  the  fourth 
dimension.  In  doing  this  he  simply  offers  one  more  example  of 
the  known  tendency  of  the  mystic  to  delude  himself,  as  he  does 
others,  with  words  which  seem  to  signify  something,  and  which  a 
simpleton  is  convinced  oftener  than  not  that  he  understands, 
but  which  in  reality  express  no  idea,  and  are,  therefore,  empty 
sound,  void  of  import. 

France  is  about  to  become  the  promised  land  of  believers  in 
ghosts.  Voltaire's  countrymen  have  already  got  the  start  of  the 
pious  Anglo-Saxons  in  dealings  with  the  supernatural.  I  am 
not  now  thinking  of  the  lower  ranks  of  the  people,  among  whom 
the  book  of  dreams  {La  Cl^  des  Songes)  has  never  ceased  to  con- 
stitute the  family  library,  together  with  the  Calendar,  and,  per- 
haps, the  '  Paroissien  '  (missal) ;  nor  of  the  fine  ladies  who  at  all 
times  have  ensured  excellent  incomes  to  clairvoyantes  and 
fortune-tellers ;  but  only  of  the  male  representatives  of  the 
educated  classes.  Dozens  of  spiritualist  circles  count  their 
numbers  by  thousands.  In  numerous  drawing-rooms  of  the 
best  (even  in  the  opinion  of  the  '  most  cultured  ' !)  society,  the 
dead  are  called  up.  A  monthly  "i^whWc^Xion,  U Initiation, 
announces,  in  weighty  tones,  and  with  a  prodigality  of  philoso- 
phical and  scientific  technicalities,  the  esoteric  doctrine  of  the 
marvels  of  the  unearthly.  A  bi-monthly  publication,  Annales 
des  Sciences  Psychiqnes,  terms  itself  a  *  collection  of  observations 
and  researches.'  Next  to  these  two  most  important  periodicals, 
a  whole  series  of  others  exist,  similar  in  tendency,  and  all  having 
a  wide  circulation.  Strictly  technical  works  on  hypnotism  and 
suggestion  run  through  edition  after  edition,  and  it  has  become 
a  profitable  speculation  for  doctors  without  practice,  who  do  not 
attach  much  importance  to  the  opinions  of  their  colleagues,  to 
compile  so-called  manuals  and  text-books  on  these  subjects, 
which  scientifically  are  completely  worthless,  but  which  are 
bought  up  by  the  public  like  hot  rolls.  Novels  have,  with  rare 
exceptions,  no  longer  any  sale  in  France,  but  works  on  obscure 
phenomena  of  nerve  function  go  off  splendidly,  so  that  sagacious 
publishers  give  their  discouraged  authors  this  advice  :  '  Leave 
novels  for  a  time,  and  write  on  magnetism.' 

Some  of  the  books  on  magic  which  have  appeared  of  late  years 
in  France  connect  their  subject  directly  with  the  phenomena 
of  hypnotism  and  suggestion  ;  for  example,  A.  De  Rochas' 
Les  Etais  profonds  de  I'Hypnose,  and  C.  A.  de  Bodisco's  Traits 
dc Ltnniere,  or  'physical  researches  dedicated  to  unbelievers  and 
egoists.'     This  has  brought  many  observers  to  the  idea  that  the 


MYSTICISM  217 

works  and  discoveries  of  the  Charcot  school  in  general  have 
given  the  impulse  to  the  whole  of  this  movement.  Hypnotism, 
say  the  representatives  of  this  opinion,  has  brought  such  re- 
markable facts  to  light  that  the  accuracy  of  certain  traditions, 
popular  beliefs  and  old  records  can  no  longer  be  doubted, 
though  hitherto  they  have  been  generally  considered  inventions 
of  superstition  ;  possession,  witch-spells,  second-sight,  healing 
by  imposition  of  hands,  prophecy,  mental  communication  at  the 
remotest  distance  without  the  intervention  of  words,  have  re- 
ceived a  new  interpretation  and  have  been  recognised  as  possible. 
What,  then,  more  natural  than  that  minds  weak  in  balance,  and  of 
insufficient  scientific  training,  should  become  accessible  to  the 
marvellous  (against  which  they  had  shielded  themselves,  as  long  as 
they  considered  it  to  be  all  old  nurses'  fables),  when  they  saw  it 
appear  in  the  garb  of  science,  and  found  themselves  in  the  best 
society  by  believing  in  it  ? 

Plausible  as  this  opinion  is,  it  is  not  the  less  false.  It  puts 
the  cart  before  the  horse.  It  confounds  cause  with  effect.  No 
completely  sound  mind  has  been  led  by  the  experiences  of  the 
new  hypnotic  science  into  a  belief  in  the  marvellous.  In  former 
times  no  attention  was  paid  to  obscure  phenomena,  or  they  were 
passed  by  with  eyes  intentionally  closed,  because  they  could 
not  be  fitted  in  to  the  prevailing  system,  and  were  consequently 
held  to  be  chimseras  or  frauds.  For  the  last  twelve  years  official 
science  has  taken  cognizance  of  them,  and  Faculties  and 
Academies  are  engaged  upon  them.  But  no  one  thinks  of 
them  for  a  moment  as  supernatural,  or  supposes  the  working 
of  unearthly  forces  behind  them.  They  class  them  with  all 
other  natural  phenomena  which  are  accessible  to  the  observation 
of  the  senses,  and  are  determined  by  the  ordinary  laws  of  nature. 
Our  knowledge  has  simply  enlarged  its  frame,  and  admitted 
an  order  of  facts  which  in  former  times  had  remained  beyond 
its  pale.  Many  processes  of  hypnosis  are  more  or  less 
satisfactorily  explained  ;  others  as  yet  not  at  all.  But  an 
earnest  and  healthy  mind  attaches  no  great  importance  to  this, 
for  he  knows  that  the  pretended  explanation  of  phenomena 
does  not  go  very  far,  and  that  we  have  mostly  to  be  satisfied  to 
determine  them  with  certainty,  and  to  know  their  immediate 
conditions.  I  do  not  say  that  the  new  science  has  exhausted 
its  subject  and  has  reached  its  limits.  But  whatever  it  may 
bring  to  light  of  the  unknown  and  the  unexpected,  it  is  not  a 
matter  of  doubt  to  the  healthy  mind  that  it  will  be  accounted  for 
by  natural  means,  and  that  the  simple,  ultimate  laws  of  physics, 
chemistry  and  biology  cannot  be  shaken  by  these  discoveries. 

If,  therefore,  so  many  people  now  interpret  the  phenomena  of 
hypnosis  as  supernatural,  and  indulge  the  hope  that  the  conjura- 
tion of  the  spirits  of  the  dead,  aerial  voyages  on  Faust's  magic 


2i8  DEGENERATION  ? 

cloak,  omniscience,  etc.,  will  soon  be  arts  as  common  as  reading^ 
and    writing,   it  is   not   the  discoveries  of  science   which   have 
brought  them  to  this  delusion,  although  the  existing  delusion  is 
happy  to  be  able  to  pass  itself  off  for  science.     Far  from  con- 
cealing itself,  as  formerly,  it  exhibits  itself  proudly  in  the  streets 
on  the  arms  of  professors  and  academicians.     Paulhan  under- 
stands the  matter  very  well :  '  It  is  not  the  love  of  positive  facts,* 
he  says,*  *  which  has  carried   minds  away  ;    there  has  been  a 
certain  kind  of  return  for  the  love  of  the  marvellous  in  desires 
formerly  satisfied,  and  which,  now  repressed,  slumbered  unac- 
knowledged  in  a  latent  condition.      Magic,  sorcery,  astrology, 
divination,  all  these  ancient   beliefs    correspond  to   a  need  of 
human  nature  ;  that  of  being  able  easily  to  act  upon  the  external 
world  and  the  social  world  ;  that  of  possessing,  by  means  rela- 
tively easy,  the  knowledge  requisite  to  make  this  action  possible 
and   fruitful.'     The  stormy  outburst  of  superstition  has  by  no 
means  been  let  loose  through  hypnological  researches ;  it  merely 
launches  itself  into  the  channels  they  have  dug.     We  have  here 
already  repeatedly  drawn  attention  to  the  fact  that  unbalanced 
minds   always  adapt  their  crazes  to  the  prevailing  views,  and 
usurp  by  predilection  the  most  recent  discoveries  of  science  to 
explain   them.     The  physicists  were    still    far  from    occupying 
themselves  with  magnetism   and  electricity,  when   the  persons 
attacked  by  persecution-mania  were  already  referring  their  own 
unpleasant  sensations  and  hallucinations  to  the  electric  currents 
or  sparks  which  their  persecutors  were  supposed  to  cast  on  them 
through  walls,  ceilings  and  floors ;  and  in  our  days  the  degene- 
rate were  equally  the    first    to    appropriate  to    themselves    the 
results    of    hypnological    researches,    and    to    employ   thefti    as 
'  scientific '  proofs  of  the  reality  of  spirits,  angels  and  devils. 
But  the  degenerate  started  with   the   belief  in  miracles  ;    it  is 
one  of  their  peculiar  characteristics,f  and  it  was  not  fiist  called 
forth  by  the  observations  of  Parisian  and  Nancy  hypnologists. 

If  another  proof  were  needed  in  support  of  this  affirmation, 
it  could  be  found  in  the  fact  that  the  greater  number  of 
'occultists,'  as  they  call  themselves,  in  their  treatises  on  occult 
arts  and  magic  sciences,  scorn  to  fall  back  on  the  results  of 
hypnological  experiments,  and,  without  any  pretext  of 
'modernity,' without  any  concession  to  honest  investigation  of 
nature,  have  direct  recourse  to  the  most  ancient  traditions. 
Papus  (the  pseudonym  of  a  physician,  Dr.  Encausse)  writes 
a  Traiti  nietJiodique  de  Science  occidte,  an  enormous  large- 
octavo  volume  of  1,050  pages,  with  400  illustrations,  which 
introduces   the   reader   to   the   cabala,   magic,  necromancy  and 

*  F.  Paulhan,  Le  nouveait  Mysticisme.     Paris,  1891,  p.  104. 
t  Legrain,  op.  cit.,  p.  175  :  'The  need  for  the  marvellous  is  almost  always 
inevitable  among  the  weak-minded.' 


MYSTICISM  219 

cheiromancy,  astrology,  alchemy,  etc.,  and  to  which  an  old,  not 
undeserving  savant,  Adolf  Franck,  of  the  Institute  of  France,  was 
imprudent  enough  to  write  a  long  eulogistic  preface,  presumably 
without  having  even  opened  the  book  himself  Stanislaus  de 
Guaita,  revered  with  awe  by  the  adepts  as  past  master  in  the 
Black  Art,  and  arch-magician,  gives  two  treatises,  Au  Seuil 
du  Mystere  and  Le  Serpent  de  la  Genese,  so  darkly  profound 
that,  in  comparison,  Nicolas  Flamel,  the  great  alchemist,  whom 
no  mortal  has  ever  comprehended,  seems  clear  and  transparent 
as  crystal.  Ernest  Bosc  confines  himself  to  the  theory  of  the 
sorcery  of  the  ancient  Egyptians.  His  book,  Isis  devoilee,  ou 
VEgyptologie  sacree,  has  for  the  sub -title:  'Hieroglyphics, 
papyri,  hermetic  books,  religion,  myths,  symbols,  psychology, 
philosophy,  morals,  sacred  art,  occultism,  mysteries,  initiation, 
music'  Nehor  has  likewise  his  speciality.  If  Bosc  unveils 
Egyptian  mysteries,  Nehor  reveals  the  secrets  of  Assyria  and 
Babylonia.  Les  Mages  et  le  Secret  magique  is  the  name  of  the 
modest  pamphlet  in  which  he  initiates  us  into  the  profoundest 
magic  arts  of  the  Chaldean  Mobeds,  or  Knights  Templars. 

If  I  do  not  enter  more  fully  into  these  books,  which  have 
found  readers  and  admirers,  it  is  because  I  am  not  quite  certain 
that  they  are  intended  to  be  in  earnest.  Their  authors  read 
and  translate  so  fluently  Egyptian,  Hebraic  and  Assyriac  texts, 
which  no  professional  Orientalist  has  yet  deciphered  ;  they  quote 
so  frequently  and  so  copiously  from  books  which  are  found  in 
no  library  in  the  world  ;  they  give  with  such  an  imperturbable 
air  exact  instructions  how  to  resuscitate  the  dead,  how  to  pre- 
serve eternal  youth,  how  to  hold  intercourse  with  the  inhabitants 
of  Sirius,  how  to  divine  beyond  all  the  limits  of  time  and  space, 
that  one  cannot  get  rid  of  the  impression  that  they  wished,  in 
cold  blood,  to  make  fun  of  the  reader. 

Only  one  of  all  these  master-sorcerers  is  certainly  to  be  taken 
in  good  faith,  and  as  he  is  at  the  same  time  intellectually  the 
most  eminent  among  them,  I  will  deal  with  him  somewhat  more 
in  detail.  This  is  M.  Josephin  Peladan.  He  has  even  arrogated 
to  himself  the  Assyrian  royal  title  of  '  Sar,'  under  which  he  is 
generally  known.  The  public  authorities  alone  do  not  give  him 
his  Sar  title ;  but  then  they  do  not  usually  recognise  any  titles 
of  nobility  in  France.  He  maintains  he  is  the  descendant  of 
the  old  Magi,  and  the  possessor  of  all  the  mental  legacies  of 
Zoroaster,  Pythagoras  and  Orpheus.  He  is,  moreover,  the 
direct  heir  of  the  Knights  Templars  and  Rosicrucians,  both  of 
which  orders  he  has  amalgamated  and  revived  under  a  new  form 
as  the  '  Order  of  the  Rosy  Cross.'  He  dresses  himself  archaically 
in  a  satin  doublet  of  blue  or  black ;  he  trims  his  extremely 
luxuriant  blue-black  hair  and  beard  into  the  shape  in  use  among 
the  Assyrians ;  he  affects  a  large  upright  hand,  which  might  be 


220  DEGENERATION 

taken  for  mediaeval  character,  writes  by  preference  with  red  or 
yellow  ink,  and  in  the  corner  of  his  letter-paper  is  delineated,  as 
a  distinctive  mark  of  his  dignity,  the  Assyrian  king's  cap,  with 
the  three  serpentine  rolls  opening  in  front.  As  a  coat  of  arms 
he  has  the  device  of  his  order  ;  on  an  escutcheon  divided  by 
sable  and  argent  a  golden  chalice  surmounted  by  a  crimson  rose 
with  two  outspread  wings,  and  overlaid  with  a  Latin  cross  in 
sable.  The  shield  is  surmounted  by  a  coronet  with  three 
pentagrams  as  indents.  M.  Peladan  has  appointed  a  series  of 
commanders  and  dignitaries  of  his  order  ('  grand  -  priors,' 
•archons,'  'aesthetes'),  which  numbers,  besides,  'postulants'  and 

*  grammarians' (scholars).  He  possesses  a  special  costume  as 
grand-master  and  Sar  (in  which  his  life-sized  portrait  has  been 
painted  by  Alexandre  Seon),  and  a  composer,  who  belongs  to 
the  order,  has  composed  for  him  a  special  fanfare,  which  on 
solemn  occasions  is  to  be  played  by  trumpets  at  his  entrance, 
lie  makes  use  of  extraordinary  formulae.  His  letters  he  calls 
'decrees,'  or  commands  {inandements).  He  addresses  the 
persons  to  whom  they  are  directed  either  as  '  magnifiques,'  or 

•  peers,'  sometim.es  also  '  dearest  adelphe,'  or  '  synnoede.'  He 
does  not  call  them  'sir,'  but  'your  lordship'  {scigneurie).  The 
introduction  is  :  '  Health,  light  and  victory  in  Jesus  Christ,  in 
the  only  God,  and  in  Peter,  the  only  king';  or  *  Ad  Rosam 
per  CrucejH,  ad  Cruceni  per  Rosam,  in  ed,  in  eis  gemniatus  re- 
surgam.'  This  is  at  the  same  time  the  heraldic  motto  of  the 
Order  of  the  Rosy  Cross.  At  the  conclusion  is  usually,  '■Amen, 
Non  nobis,  Domine,  non  nobis,  sed  nojninis  tui  glories  solce'  He 
writes  the  name  of  his  order,  with  a  cross  inserted  in  the  middle, 
thus:  ^  Rose  ^  Croix'  His  novels  he  calls  '  ethop^es,'  himself 
as  their  author  '  etiiopoete,'  his  dramas  '  wagneries,'  their  table  of 
contents  '  emnolpees^ 

Every  one  of  his  books  is  ornamented  with  a  large  number 
of  symbols.  That  which  appears  the  most  often  is  a  vignette 
showing  on  a  column  a  cowering  form  with  the  head  of  a  woman 
breathing  flames,  and  with  a  woman's  breast,  lion's  paws,  and 
the  lower  part  of  the  body  of  a  wasp  or  dragon-fly,  terminating 
in  an  appendage  similar  to  the  tail  of  a  fish.  The  work  itself  is 
always  preceded  by  some  prefaces,  introductions  and  invoca- 
tions, and  is  often  followed  by  pages  of  the  same  nature.  I 
take  as  an  example  the  book  entitled,  Comment  on  devient 
Mage*  After  the  two  title-pages  adorned  with  a  great  number 
of  symbolical  images  (winged  Assyrian  bulls,  the  mystic  rose 
cross,  etc ),  comes  a  long  dedication  'to  Count  Antoine  de  la 
Rochefoucauld,   grand  -  prior    of    the    temple,    archon    of    the 

*  Sar  Merodack'J.^P^Udan,  AmphitJi^atre  des  Sciences  ino7'tes.  Conunent 
on  devient  Mage.  Ethique.  Avec  un  portrait  pittoresque  gravd  par  G. 
Pu.rel.     Paris,  1892. 


MYSTICISM  221 

Rose  »^  Cross.'  Then  follows  in  Latin  a  *  prayer  of  St.  Thomas 
Aquinas,  well  suited  to  warn  the  reader  against  the  possible 
errors  of  this  book' ;  after  this,  an  denctique  (counter-demonstra- 
tion) containing  a  sort  of  profession  of  Catholic  faith;  next,  an 
'invocation  to  ancestors'  in  the  style  of  the  Chaldean  prayers; 
lastly,  a  long  allocution  '  to  the  contemporary  young  man,'  after 
which  the  book  properly  begins. 

At  the  head  of  every  chapter  appear  nine  mysterious  formulae. 
Here  are  two  examples:  'I.  The  Neophyte.  Divine  Name: 
Jud  (the  Hebrew  letter  so  called).  Sacrament:  Baptism. 
Virtue:  Faith.  Gift:  Fear  of  God.  Beatitude:  Poor  in  spirit. 
Work:  Teaching.  Angel:  Michael.  Arcanum:  Unity.  Planet: 
Samas.  H.  Society.  Divine  Name:  Jah — El  (in  Hebrew  char- 
acters, which  Peladan  evidently  cannot  read,  for  he  turns  it 
into  El-lah).  Sacrament:  Consecration.  Virtue:  Hope.  Gift: 
Pity.  Beatitude:  Gentleness.  Work:  Counsel.  Angel:  Gabriel. 
Arcanum:  Duality.     Planet:  Sin.' 

Of  the  further  contents  of  this  mighty  volume  I  think  no 
examples  need  be  given.  They  correspond  exactly  with  the 
headings  of  these  chapters. 

The  novels  or  'ethop^es'  of  M.  Peladan,  of  which  nine  have 
appeared  hitherto,  but  of  which  the  author  has  announced  four- 
teen, are  arranged  in  groups  of  seven,  the  mystical  number. 
He  has  even  established  a  ScJihna  de  Concordance*  which 
claims  to  give  a  synopsis  of  their  leading  ideas.  Let  us  hear 
how  he  explains  his  works  : 

'  First  series  of  seven  :  L  The  supreme  vice.  Moral  and  mental 
Diathesis  of  the  Latin  decline — Merodach,  summit  of  conscious 
will,  type  of  absolute  entity ;  Alta,  prototype  of  the  monk  in 
contact  with  the  world  ;  Courtenay,  inadequate  man-of-fate, 
bewitched  by  social  facts ;  L.  d'Este,  extreme  pride,  the  grand 
style  in  evil  ;  Coryse,  the  true  young  maiden  ;  La  Nine,  the 
wicked  Androgyne,  or,  better,  Gynander  ;  Dominicaux,  conscious 
reprobate,  character  of  the  irremediable,  resulting  from  a 
specious  aesthetic  theory  for  every  vice,  which  kills  conscious- 
ness and,  in  consequence,  conversion.  Every  novel  has  a  Mero- 
dach, that  is,  an  abstract  Orphic  principle,  as  opposed  to  an 
ideal  enigma. 

'  H.  Inquisitive.  Parisian  clinical  collective- phenomenism. 
Ethics  :  Nebo  ;  the  systematic,  sentimental  will.  Erotics  :  Paula, 
passionate  with  Androgynous  Prism.  The  great  horror,  the 
Beast  with  two  backs,  in  Gynander  (IX.),  metamorphosing 
itself  into  unisexual  corruption.  Inquisitive,  that  is  the  every- 
day and  the  everybody  of  ^instinct.  Gynander,  the  Goethesque 
midnight,  and  the  exceptional,'  etc. 

*  Jos^phin  Pdladan,  La  Dicadence  Icii  le.     Ethopde  IX.  :  '  La  Gynandre.' 
Couverture  de  Sdon,  eau-forte  de  Desboutir?=i.     Paris,  1891,  p.  xvii. 


222  DEGENERATION 

I  have  taken  pains  to  reproduce  faithfully  all  M.  Peladan's 
whimsical  methods  of  expression.  That  his  Concordance  can 
give  even  the  slightest  idea  of  the  contents  of  his  novels,  I  do 
not  for  a  moment  believe.  I  will,  therefore,  say  a  few  words 
about  these  in  non-magian  language. 

They  all  move  in  the  three  following  circles  of  ideas,  variously 
penetrating  and  intersecting  each  other  :  The  highest  intellectual 
aim  of  man  is  to  hear  and  thoroughly  to  appreciate  Wagnerian 
music  ;  the  highest  development  of  morality  consists  in  re- 
nouncing sexuality  and  in  transforming  one's  self  into  a  hybrid 
hermaphrodite  (Androgyne  and  Gynander)  ;  the  higher  man 
can  quit  and  retake  his  body  at  pleasure,  soar  into  space  as  an 
*  astral  being,'  and  subject  to  his  will  the  entire  supernatural 
power  of  the  world  of  spirits,  of  the  good  as  well  as  the  bad. 

Accordingly,  in  every  romance  a  hero  appears  who  unites  in 
himself  the  distinctive  marks  of  both  sexes,  and  resists  with 
horror  the  ordinary  sexual  instincts,  who  plays  or  enjoys  the 
music  of  Wagner,  enacts  in  his  own  life  some  scene  from  the  Wag- 
nerian drama,  and  conjures  up  spirits  or  has  to  repel  their  attacks. 
If  anyone  wishes  to  trace  the  origin  of  all  these  delirious 
ideas,  it  will  not  be  difficult  to  discover  how  they  arose.  One 
day  while  reading  the  Bible  Peladan  alighted  on  the  name  of 
the  Babylonian  king,  Merodach  Baladan.  The  similarity  of 
sound  between  '  Baladan  '  and  '  Peladan  '  gave  an  impulse  to  his 
imagination  to  establish  relations  between  himself  and  the 
Biblical  Babylonian  king.  Once  he  began  to  reflect  on  this,  he 
found  a  resemblance,  in  the  cast  of  his  features,  the  colour  of  his 
hair,  and  the  growth  of  his  beard,  to  the  heads  of  Assyrian 
kings  on  the  alabaster  casts  from  the  palace  at  Nineveh.  Thus 
he  easily  arrived  at  the  idea  that  he  was  possibly  a  descendant 
of  Baladan,  or  of  other  Assyrian  kings,  or,  at  least,  that  it  would 
be  a  curious  thing  if  he  were.  And  he  continued  to  work  out 
this  thought,  until  one  day  he  resolutely  took  the  title  of  Sar. 
If  he  were  descended  from  the  kings  of  Babylon,  he  could  also 
be  the  heir  of  the  wisdom  of  the  Magi.  So  he  began  to  proclaim 
the  Magian  esoteric  doctrine.  To  these  musings  were  added 
afterwards  the  impressions  he  received  on  a  pilgrimage  to 
Bayreuth,  from  Tristan,  and  especially  from  Parsifal.  In 
fancy  he  wrought  his  own  life  into  the  legend  of  the  Grail, 
looked  upon  himself  as  a  knight  of  the  Grail,  and  created  his 
order  of  the  '  Rose  Croix,'  which  is  entirely  composed  of 
reminiscences  of  i"<^ri'?y^/.  His  invention  of  the  asexual  hybrid 
being  shows  that  his  imagination  is  actively  preoccupied  with 
presentations  of  a  sexual  character,  and  unconsciously  seeks  to 
idealize  the  'contrary  sexual  feelings.' 

The  mental  life  of  Peladan  permits  us  to  follow,  in  an  ex- 
tremely well-marked  instance,  the  ways  of  mystic  thought.     He 


MYSTICISM  223 

is  wholly  dominated  by  the  association  of  ideas.  A  fortuitous 
assonance  awakens  in  him  a  train  of  thought  which  urges  him 
irresistibly  to  proclaim  himself  an  Assyrian  king  and  Magus, 
without  his  attention  being  in  a  condition  to  make  him  realize 
the  fact  that  a  man  can  be  called  Peladan  without  being,  there- 
fore, necessarily  descended  from  a  Biblical  Baladan.  The 
meaningless  flow  of  words  of  the  mediseval  scholastics  misleads 
him,  because  he  is  continually  thinking  by  way  of  analogy,  that 
is  to  say,  because  he  follows  exclusively  the  play  of  the  associa- 
tion of  ideas  provoked  by  the  most  secondary  and  superficial 
resemblances.  He  receives  every  artistic  suggestion  with  the 
greatest  ease.  If  he  hears  Wagner's  operas,  he  believes  him- 
self to  be  a  Wagnerian  character ;  if  he  reads  of  the  Knights 
Templars  and  Rosicrucians,  he  becomes  the  Grand  -  Master 
of  the  Temple,  and  of  all  other  secret  orders.  He  has  the 
peculiar  sexual  emotionalism  of  the  '  higher  degenerates,'  and 
this  endows  him  with  a  peculiar  fabulous  shape,  which,  at  once 
chaste  and  lascivious,  embodies,  in  curiously  demonstrative 
manner,  the  secret  conflicts  which  take  place  in  his  conscious- 
ness between  unhealthily  intensified  instincts,  and  the  judgment 
which  recognises  their  dangerous  character. 

Does  Peladan  believe  in  the  reality  of  his  delusions  ?  In  other 
words,  does  he  take  himself  seriously.?  The  answer  to  this 
question  is  not  so  simple  as  many  perhaps  think.  The  two 
beings  which  exist  in  every  human  mind  are,  in  a  nature  such  as 
Peladan's,  a  prey  to  a  strange  conflict.  His  unconscious  nature 
is  quite  transfused  with  the  ro/e  of  a  Sar,  a  Magus,  a  Knight  of 
the  Holy  Grail,  Grand-Master  of  the  Order,  etc.,  which  he  has 
invented.  The  conscious  factor  in  him  knows  that  it  is  all  non- 
sense, but  it  finds  artistic  pleasure  in  it,  and  permits  the  uncon- 
scious life  to  do  as  it  pleases.  It  is  thus  that  little  girls  behave 
who  play  with  dolls^  caressing  or  punishing  them,  and  treating 
them  as  if  they  were  living  beings,  all  the  time  well  aware  that 
in  reality  they  have  before  them  only  an  object  in  leather  and 
porcelain. 

Peladan's  judgment  has  no  power  over,  his  unconscious  im- 
pulses. It  is  not  in  his  power  to  renounce  the  part  of  a  Sar  or 
a  Magus,  or  no  longer  to  pose  as  grand-master  of  an  order.  He 
cannot  abstain  from  perpetually  returning  to  his  'Androgynous' 
absurdity.  All  these  aberrations,  as  well  as  the  invention  of 
neologisms  and  the  predilection  for  symbols,  the  prolix  titles, 
and  the  casket-series  of  prefaces,  so  characteristic  of  the  ^higher 
degenerates,'  proceed  from  the  depths  of  his  organic  tempera- 
ment, and  evade  the  influence  of  his  higher  centres.  On  its 
conscious  side  Peladan's  cerebral  activity  is  rich  and  beautiful. 
In  his  novels  there  are  pages  which  rank  among  the  most 
splendid  productions  of  a  contemporary  pen.     His  moral  ideal 


224  DEGENERATION 

is  high  and  noble.  He  pursues  with  ardent  hatred  all  that  is 
base  and  vulgar,  every  form  of  egoism,  falsehood,  and  thirst  for 
pleasure  ;  and  his  characters  are  thoroughly  aristocratic  souls, 
whose  thoughts  are  concerned  only  with  the  worthiest,  if  some- 
what exclusively  artistic,  interests  of  humanity.  It  is  deeply  to 
be  regretted  that  the  overgrowth  of  morbidly  mystic  presenta- 
tions should  render  his  extraordinary  gifts  completely  sterile. 

Far  below  Peladan  stands  Maurice  Rollinat,  who  ought, 
nevertheless,  to  be  mentioned  first,  because  he  embodies  in  a 
very  instructive  manner  a  definite  form  of  mystic  degeneration, 
and  next  because  all  French,  and  many  foreign,  hysterical 
persons  honour  in  him  a  great  poet. 

In  his  poems,  which  with  characteristic  self-knowledge  he 
entitles  Les  Nevroses*  (Nervous  Maladies)  he  betrays  all  the 
stigmata  of  degeneration,  which  by  this  time  ought  to  be 
familiar  enough  to  the  reader  for  me  to  content  myself  with  a 
brief  notice  of  them. 

He  feels  in  himself  criminal  impulses  {Le  Fantome  du  Crime)  : 

'  Wicked  thoughts  come  into  my  soul  in  every  place,  at  all 
hours,  in  the  height  of  my  work.  ...  I  listen  in  spite  of  myself 
to  the  infernal  tones  which  vibrate  in  my  heart  where  Satan 
knocks  ;  and  although  I  have  a  horror  of  vile  saturnalias,  of 
which  the  mere  shadow  suffices  to  anger  me,  I  listen  in  spite  of 
myself  to  the  infernal  tones,  .  .  .  The  phantom  of  crime  across 
my  reason  prowls  around  (in  my  skull).  .  .  .  Murder,  rape, 
robbery,  parricide,  pass  through  my  mind  like  fierce  light- 
nings. .  .  .' 

The  spectacle  of  death  and  corruption  has  a  strong  attraction 
for  him.     He  delights  in  putrefaction  and  revels  in  disease. 

'  My  ghostly  beloved,  snatched  by  death,  played  before  me 
livid  and  purple.  .  .  .  Bony  nakedness,  chaste  in  her  leanness  ! 
Hectic  beauty  as  sad  as  it  is  ardent  1  .  .  .  Near  her  a  coffin  .  .  . 
greedily  opened  its  oblong  jaws,  and  seemed  to  call  her.  .  •  ,' 
{D Amante  macabre). 

*  Mademoiselle  Squelette  ! 
Je  la  surnommais  ainsi  : 
Elle  etait  si  maigrelette  1 

*  Crachant  une  gouttelette 

De  sang  trfes  peu  cramoisi  .  .  , 
Elle  ^tait  si  maigrelette  !  .  .  . 

*  Sa  phthisie  dtant  complete  ;  •  .  . 
Sa  figure  verdelette  .  .  . 

Un  soir,  k  respagnolette 
Elle  vint  se  pendre  ici. 

*  Maurice  Rollinat,  Les  Nivroses  (Les  Ames — Les  Suaires — Les  Refuges 
— Les  Spectres — Les  T^nfebres).  Avec  un  portrait  de  I'auteur  par  F.  Des- 
moulin.  Paris,  1883.  Quite  as  striking  is  his  later  collection  of  poems, 
LAbtme.     Paris,  1891. 


MYSTICISM  225 

*  Horreur  !  une  cordelette 
Ddcapitait  sans  merci 
Mademoiselle  Squelette  : 
Elle  ^tait  si  maigrelette  !' 

Mademoiselle  Squelette. 

'That  I  might  rescue  the  angeh'cally  beautiful  dead  from  the 
horrible  kisses  of  the  worm  I  had  her  embalmed  in  a  strange 
box.  It  was  on  a  winter's  night.  From  the  ice-cold,  stiff  and 
livid  body  were  taken  out  the  poor  defunct  organs,  and  into 
the  open  belly,  bloody  and  empty,  were  poured  sweet-smelling 
salves.  .  .  .'  i^La  Morte  einbanmee). 

'  Flesh,  eyebrows,  hair,  my  coffin  and  my  winding-sheet,  the  grave 
has  eaten  them  all ;  its  work  is  done.  .  .  .  My  skull  has  attested 
its  shrinking,  and  I,  a  scaling,  crumbling  residue  of  death, 
have  come  to  look  back  with  regret  upon  the  time  when  I  was 
rotting,  and  the  worm  yet  fasted  not.  .  .  .'  {Le  mauvais  Mort). 

This  depravity  of  taste  will  not  seldom  be  observed  among 
the  deranged.  In  Rollinat  it  merely  inspires  loathsome  verses  ; 
among  others  it  leads  them  to  the  eager  devouring  of  human 
excretions,  and,  in  its  worst  forms,  to  being  enamoured  of  a 
corpse  {Necrophilia), 

Violent  erotomaniacal  excitement  expresses  itself  in  a  series  of 
poems  {Les  Luxures),  which  not  only  celebrate  the  most  un- 
bridled sensuality,  but  also  all  the  aberrations  of  sexual  psycho- 
pathy. 

But  the  most  conspicuous  are  the  sensations  of  undefined 
horrors  which  continually  beset  him.  Everything  inspires  him 
with  anguish  ;  all  the  sights  of  Nature  appear  to  him  to  enclose 
some  frightful  mystery.  He  is  always  expecting,  in  trembling, 
some  unknown  terror. 

*  I  always  shudder  at  the  strange  look  of  some  boot  and  some 
shoe.  Ay,  you  may  shrug  your  shoulders  mockingly,  I  do 
shudder ;  and  suddenly,  on  thinking  of  the  foot  they  cover,  I 
ask  myself:  "  Is  it  mechanical, or  living?"  .  .  .'  {Le  Maniaque). 

'  My  room  is  like  my  soul.  .  .  .  Heavy  curtains,  very  ancient, 
cling  round  the  deep  bed ;  long  fantastic  insects  dance  and 
crawl  on  the  ceiling.  When  my  clock  strikes  the  hour  it  makes 
an  appalling  noise  ;  every  swing  of  the  pendulum  vibrates,  and 
is  strangely  prolonged.  .  .  .  Furniture,  pictures,  flowers,  even 
the  books,  all  smell  of  hell  and  poison  ;  and  the  horror,  which 
loves  me,  envelops  this  prison  like  "a  pall.  .  . .'  {La  Chambre). 

*  The  library  made  me  think  of  very  old  forests  ;  thirteen  iron 
lamps,  oblong  and  spectral,  poured  their  sepulchral  light  day 
and  night  on  the  faded  books  full  of  shadow  and  secrets.  I 
always  shuddered  when  I  entered.  I  felt  myself  in  the  midst 
of  fogs  and  death-rattles,  drawn  on  by  the  arms  of  thirteen 
pale  armchairs,  and  scanned  by  the  eyes  of  thirteen  great 
portraits.  . .  ,'  {La  Bibliotheque). 

15 


226  DEGENERATION 

'  In  the  swamp  full  of  malice,  which  clogs  and  penetrates  his 
stockings,  he  hears  himself  faintly  called  by  several  voices 
making  but  one.  He  finds  a  corpse  as  sentinel,  which  rolls  its 
dull  eyeballs,  and  moves  its  corruption  with  an  automatic 
spring.  I  show  to  his  dismayed  eyes  fires  in  the  deserted 
houses,  and  in  the  forsaken  parks  beds  full  of  green  rosi^  .  .  . 
And  the  old  cross  on  the  calvary  hails  him  from  afar,  and 
curses  him,  crossing  its  stern  arms  as  it  stretches  out  and 
brandishes  them.  .  .  .'  {La  Peur). 

I  will  not  weary  by  multiplying  examples,  and  will  only 
quote  the  titles  of  a  few  more  poems:  TJie  Living  Grave; 
Troppniann's  Soliloquy  (a  well-known  eight-fold  murderer) ;  The 
Crazy  Hangman ;  The  Monster ;  The  Madman ;  The  Head- 
ache {La  Cephalalgie) ;  The  Disease ;  The  Frenzied  Woman ; 
Dead  Eyes ;  The  Abyss;  Tears;  Anguish;  The  Slow  Death- 
struggle  ;  The  Interment ;  The  Coffin  ;  The  Death-knell ;  Corrup- 
tion ;   The  Song  of  the  Guidotined,  etc. 

All  these  poems  are  the  production  of  a  craze,  which  will  be 
frequently  observed  among  degenerates.  Even  Dostojevski, 
who  is  known  to  have  been  mentally  afflicted,  suffered  from  it 
also.  '  As  soon  as  it  grev/  dusk,'  he  relates  of  himself,*  *  I 
gradually  fell  into  that  state  of  mind  which  so  often  over- 
masters me  at  night  since  I  have  been  ill,  and  which  I  shall 
call  mystic  fright.  It  is  a  crushing  anxiety  about  something 
which  I  can  neither  define  nor  even  conceive,  which  does  not 
actually  exist,  but  which  perhaps  is  about  to  be  realized 
suddenly,  at  this  very  moment,  to  appear  and  rise  up  before  me 
like  an  inexorable,  horrible,  unshapen  fact.'  Legrain-f-  quotes  a 
degenerate  lunatic  whose  mania  began  '  with  feelings  of  fear  and 
anguish  at  some  fancy.'  Professor  Kowalewskif  indicates  as 
degrees  of  mental  derangement  in  degeneration — first,  neuras- 
thenia ;  secondly,  impulses  of  '  obsession  '  and  feelings  of  morbid 
anguish.  Legrand  du  Saulle§  and  Morel  |1  describe  this  state 
of  groundless,  undefined  fear,  and  coin  for  it  the  not  very  happy 
word  '  Panophobia.'  Magnan  calls  it  more  correctly  '  Anxio- 
mania  ' — frenzied  anguish — and  speaks  of  it  as  a  very  common 
stigma  of  degeneration.  The  anguish  mania  is  an  error  of  con- 
sciousness, which  is  filled  with  presentations  of  fear,  and  transfers 
their  cause  into  the  external  world,  while,  as  a  matter  of  fact, 
they  are  stimulated  by  pathological  processes  within  the 
organism.     The  invalid  feels  oppressed  and  uneasy,  and  imputes 

*  Humilih  et  Offenses,  p.  55  ;  quoted  by  De  Vogii^,  Le  Roman  russe,  p.  222, 
foot-note. 

f   Legrain,  op.  cit.,  p.  246. 

%  Journal  of  Mental  Science,  January,  1888. 

§  Le  Di'lire  des  Persecutions.     Paris,  1871,  p.  512. 

I  Morel,  'Du  D(flire  panophobique  des  Alidnds  gdmisseurs.'  Annates 
medico-psychologiqiies^  1S71,  2^  vol.,  p.  322. 


MYSTICISM  227 

to  the  phenomena  which  surround  him  a  threatening  and  sinister 
aspect,  in  order  to  explain  to  himself  his  dread,  the  origin  of 
which  escapes  him,  because  it  is  rooted  in  the  unconscious. 

As  in  Rollinat  we  have  learnt  to  know  the  poet  of  anxio- 
mania,  so  shall  we  find  in  another  author,  whose  name  has 
become  widely  known  in  the  last  two  years,  in  the  Belgian, 
Maurice  Maeterlinck,  an  example  of  an  utterly  childish  idiotically- 
incoherent  mysticism.  He  reveals  the  state  of  his  mind  most 
characteristically  in  his  poems,*  of  which  I  will  give  a  few 
examples.     Here  is  the  first  of  the  collection — Serves  chaudes : 

'O  hot-house  in  the  middle  of  the  woods.  And  your  doors 
ever  closed  !  And  all  that  is  under  your  dome !  And  under 
my  soul  in  your  analogies ! 

'The  thoughts  of  a  princess  who  is  hungry;  the  tedium 
of  a  sailor  in  the  desert  ;  a  brass-band  under  the  windows  of 
incurables. 

'  Go  into  the  warm  moist  corners  !  One  might  say,  'tis  a 
woman  fainting  on  harvest  -  day.  In  the  courtyard  of  the 
infirmary  are  postilions ;  in  the  distance  an  elk-hunter  passes 
by,  who  now  tends  the  sick. 

'  Examine  in  the  moonlight !  (Oh,  nothing  there  is  in  its 
place  !)  One  might  say,  a  madwoman  before  judges,  a  battle- 
ship in  full  sail  on  a  canal,  night-birds  on  lilies,  a  death-knell 
towards  noon  (down  there  under  those  bells),  a  halting-place  for 
the  sick  in  the  meadows,  a  smell  of  ether  on  a  sunny  day. 

'  My  God  !  my  God  !  when  shall  we  have  rain  and  snow  and 
wind  in  the  hot-house  .''' 

These  idiotic  sequences  of  words  are  psychologically  interest- 
ing, for  they  demonstrate  with  instructive  significance  the 
workings  of  a  shattered  brain.  Consciousness  no  longer  elabo- 
rates a  leading  or  central  idea.  Representations  emerge  just  as 
the  wholly  mechanical  association  of  ideas  arouses  them.  There 
is  no  attention  seeking  to  bring  order  into  the  tumult  of  images 
as  they  come  and  go,  to  separate  the  unconnected,  to  suppress 
those  that  contradict  each  other,  and  to  group  those  which  are 
allied  into  a  single  logical  series. 

A  few  more  examples  of  these  fugitive  thoughts  exclusively 
under  the  rule  of  unbridled  association.  Here  is  one  entitled 
Bell-glasses  {Cloches  de  verre)  : 

'  O  bell-glasses !  Strange  plants  for  ever  under  shelter ! 
While  the  wind  stirs  my  senses  without !  A  whole  valley  of 
the  soul  for  ever  still  !  And  the  enclosed  lush  warmth  towards 
noon  !     And  the  pictures  seen  through  the  glass ! 

*  Never  remove  one  of  them  !  Several  have  been  placed  on 
old  moonlight.  Look  through  their  foliage.  There  is  perhaps 
a  vagabond  on  a  throne  ;  one  has  the  impression  that  corsairs 

*  Maurice  Maettrlinck,  Serres  c/iazides.   Nouvelle  Edition.    Bruxelles,  1890. 


228  DEGENERATION 

are  waiting  on  the  pond,  and  that  antediluvian  beings  are  about 
to  invade  the  towns. 

'  Some  have  been  placed  on  old  snows.  Some  have  been 
placed  on  ancient  rains.  (Pity  the  enclosed  atmosphere  !)  I 
hear  a  festival  solemnized  on  a  famine  Sunday  ;  there  is  an 
ambulance  in  the  middle  of  the  house,  and  all  the  daughters  of 
the  king  wander  on  a  fast-day  across  the  meadows. 

*  Examine  specially  those  of  the  horizon  !  They  cover  care- 
fully very  old  thunderstorms.  Oh,  there  must  be  somewhere  an 
immense  fleet  on  a  marsh !  And  I  believe  that  the  swans 
have  hatched  ravens.  (One  can  scarcely  distinguish  through  the 
dampness.) 

*  A  maiden  sprinkles  the  ferns  with  hot  water ;  a  troop  of 
little  girls  watch  the  hermit  in  his  cell ;  my  sisters  have  fallen 
asleep  on  the  floor  of  a  poisonous  grotto  ! 

*Wait  for  the  moon  and  the  winter,  among  these  bells, 
scattered  at  last  on  the  ice.' 

Another  called  Soul  (Ame) : 

'  My  soul !  O  my  soul  truly  too  much  sheltered  !  And  these 
flocks  of  desires  in  a  hot-house !  Awaiting  a  storm  in  the 
meadows !  Let  us  go  to  the  most  sickly  :  they  have  strange 
exhalations.  In  the  midst  of  them  I  cross  a  battlefield  with 
my  mother.  They  are  burying  a  brother-in-arms  at  noon,  while 
the  sentries  take  their  repast. 

'  Let  us  go  also  to  the  weakest ;  they  have  strange  sweats  : 
here  is  a  sick  bride,  treachery  on  Sunday,  and  little  children  in 
prison.  (And  further  across  the  mist.)  Is  it  a  dying  woman  at 
the  door  of  a  kitchen  ?  Or  a  nun,  who  cleans  vegetables  at  the 
foot  of  the  bed  of  an  incurable  ? 

'  Let  us  go  lastly  to  the  saddest :  (at  the  last  because  they  have 
poisons).     O  my  lips  accept  the  kisses  of  one  wounded  ! 

*  All  the  ladies  of  the  castle  are  dead  of  hunger  this  summer 
in  the  towers  of  my  soul !  Here  is  the  dawn,  which  enters  into 
the  festival  !  I  have  a  glimpse  of  sheep  along  the  quays,  and 
there  is  a  sail  at  the  windows  of  the  hospital ! 

'  It  is  a  long  road  from  my  heart  to  my  soul  !  And  all  the 
sentries  are  dead  at  their  posts  ! 

*  One  day  there  was  a  poor  little  festival  in  the  suburbs  of  my 
soul  1  They  mowed  the  hemlock  there  one  Sunday  morning  ; 
and  all  the  convent  virgins  saw  the  ships  pass  by  on  the  canal 
one  sunny  fast-day.  While  the  swans  suffered  under  a  poisonous 
bridge.  The  trees  were  lopped  about  the  prison ;  medicines 
were  brought  one  afternoon  in  June,  and  meals  for  the  patients 
were  spread  over  the  whole  horizon  ! 

'  My  soul !  And  the  sadness  of  it  all,  my  soul !  and  the  sad- 
ness of  it  all !' 

I  have  translated  with  the  greatest  exactness,  and  not  omitted 


MYSTICISM  229 

one  word  of  the  three  *  poems.'  Nothing  would  be  easier  than 
to  compose  others  on  these  models,  overtrumping  even  those  of 
Maeterlinck — e.g.,  *  O  Flowers  !  And  we  groan  so  heavily  under 
the  very  old  taxes  !  An  hour-glass,  at  which  the  dog  barks  in 
May  ;  and  the  strange  envelope  of  the  negro  who  has  not  slept. 
A  grandmother  who  would  eat  oranges  and  could  not  write  \ 
Sailors  in  a  ballroom,  but  blue  !  blue !  On  the  bridge  this 
crocodile  and  the  policeman  with  the  swollen  cheek  beckons 
silently !  O  two  soldiers  in  the  cowhouse,  and  the  razor  is 
notched !  But  the  chief  prize  they  have  not  drawn.  And  on 
the  lamp  are  ink-spots!'  etc.  But  why  parody  Maeterlinck? 
His  style  bears  no  parody,  for  it  has  already  reached  the  ex- 
treme limits  of  idiocy.  Nor  is  it  quite  worthy  of  a  mentally 
sound  man  to  make  fun  of  a  poor  devil  of  an  idiot. 

Certain  of  his  poems  consist  simply  of  assonances,  linked 
together  without  regard  to  sense  and  meaning,  e.g.,  one  which  is 
entitled  Ennui: 

*  The  careless  peacocks,  the  white  peacocks  have  flown,  the 
white  peacocks  have  flown  from  the  tedium  of  awaking  ;  I  see 
the  white  peacocks,  the  peacocks  of  to-day,  the  peacocks  that 
went  away  during  my  sleep,  the  careless  peacocks,  the  peacocks 
of  to-day,  reach  lazily  the  pond  where  no  sun  is,  I  hear  the 
white  peacocks,  the  peacocks  of  ennui,  waiting  lazily  for  the 
times  when  no  sun  is.' 

The  French  original  reveals  why  these  words  were  chosen  ; 
they  contain  almost  all  the  nasal  sounds,  *  en,'  or  '  an,'  or  '  aon  ' : 
*  Les paons  nonchalants,les  paons  blancs  ont  fui,  les  paons  b lanes 
ontfuiV ennui  du  reveil ;  je  vois  les  paons  blancs  .  .  .  atteinare 
indolents  V^tang  sans  soleill  etc.  This  is  a  case  of  that  form  of 
echolalia  which  is  observed  not  seldom  among  the  insane.  One 
patient  says,  e.g.,  '  Man  kann  dann  ran  Mann  wann  Clan  Bann 
Schwan  Hahn,'  and  he  continues  to  grind  similar  sounds  till  he 
is  either  tired,  or  takes  a  word  spoken  before  him  as  a  starting- 
point  for  a  new  series  of  rhymes. 

If  Maeterlinck's  poems  are  read  with  some  attention,  it  is  soon 
seen  that  the  muddled  pictures  which  follow  each  other  pell- 
mell  as  in  a  dream,  are  borrowed  from  a  very  limited  circle  of 
ideas,  which  have  either  generally,  or  only  for  him,  an  emotional 
content.  *  Strange,' '  old,'  'distant,'  are  the  adjectives  he  con- 
stantly repeats  ;  they  have  this  in  common  that  they  indicate 
something  indistinct,  not  definitely  recognisable,  away  on  the 
bounds  of  the  distant  horizon,  corresponding,  therefore,  to  the 
nebulous  thought  of  mysticism.  Another  adjective  which  sets 
him  dreaming  is  '  slow '  {lent).  It  also  influences  the  French 
Symbolists,  and  hence  their  fondness  for  it.  They  evidently 
associated  it  with  the  idea  of  the  movements  of  the  priest 
reading  the  Mass,  and  it  awakens  in  them  the  emotions  of  the 


230  DEGENERATION 

mysticism  of  faith.  They  betray  this  association  of  ideas  by 
this,  that  they  frequently  use  lent  together  with  hiiratique 
(sacerdotal).  Maeterlinck,  moreover,  is  constantly  thinking  of 
hospitals  with  their  sick,  and  of  everything  connected  with  them 
(nuns,  invalids'  diet,  medicines,  surgical  operations,  bandages, 
etc.),  of  canals  with  ships  and  swans,  and  of  princesses.  The 
hospitals  and  the  canals,  which  are  a  feature  in  the  Belgian 
landscape,  may  be  connected  with  the  first  impressions  of  his 
childhood,  and  therefore  produce  emotions  in  him.  The  prin- 
cesses, on  the  contrary,  shut  up  in  towers,  suffering  hunger, 
going  astray,  wading  through  swamps,  etc.,  have  evidently 
remained  fixed  in  his  imagination  from  the  childish  ballads  ot 
the  pre-Raphaelites,  one  of  which,  by  Swinburne,  was  given 
above  as  an  example.  Hospitals,  canals,  princesses,  these  are 
the  pictures  which  always  recur  with  the  obstinacy  of  obses- 
sions, and  in  the  midst  of  the  nebulous  chaos  of  his  jargon, 
alone  show  some  sort  of  firm  outline. 

A  few  of  his  poems  are  written  in  the  traditional  poetical 
form  ;  others,  on  the  contrary,  have  neither  measure  nor  rhyme, 
but  consist  of  lines  of  prose,  arbitrarily  changing  in  length,  not 
according  to  the  style  of  Goethe's  free  poems,  or  of  Heine's 
North  Sea  Songs,  which  ripple  by  with  very  strongly  marked 
rhythmic  movement,  but  deaf,  jolting  and  limping,  as  the  items 
of  an  inventory.  These  pieces  are  a  servile  imitation  of  the 
effusions  of  Walt  Whitman,  that  crazy  American  to  whom 
Maeterlinck  was  necessarily  strongly  attracted,  according  to  the 
law  I  have  repeatedly  set  forth — that  all  deranged  minds  fiock 
together. 

I  should  like  here  to  interpolate  a  iew  remarks  on  Walt 
Whitman,  who  is  likewise  one  of  the  deities  to  whom  the 
degenerate  and  hysterical  of  both  hemispheres  have  for  some 
time  been  raising  altars.  Lombroso  ranks  him  expressly  among 
*  mad   geniuses.'*     IViad   Whitman  was  without  doubt.     But   a 

*  Lombroso,  Genie  unci hrshm,  p.  322  :  'Walt  Whitman,  the  poet  of  the 
modern  Anglo-Americans,  and  assuredly  a  niad  genius,  was  a  t)pographer, 
teacher,  soldier,  joiner,  and  for  some  time  also  a  bureaucrat,  wiiich,  for  a 
poet,  is  the  queerest  of  trades.' 

This  constant  changing  of  his  profession  Lombroso  rightly  characterizes 
as  one  of  the  signs  of  mental  derangement.  A  French  admirer  of  Whitman, 
Gabriel  Sarrazin  [La  Rc7iaissance  de  la  Poesie  auglaise,  1798 — 1889  ;  Paris, 
1889,  p.  270,  footnote),  palliates  this  proof  of  organic  instability  and  weak- 
ness of  will  in  the  following  manner  :  '  This  American  facility  of  changing 
from  one  calling  to  another  goes  against  our  old  European  prejudices,  and 
our  unalterable  veneration  for  thoroughly  hierarchical,  bureaucratic  routine- 
careers.  We  have  remained  in  this,  as  in  so  many  other  respects,  essentially 
narrow-minded,  and  cannot  understand  that  diversity  of  capacities  gi\es  a 
man  a  very  much  greater  social  value.'  This  is  the  true  method  of  the 
aesthetic  windbag,  who  for  every  fact  which  he  does  not  understand  finds 
roundly-turned  phrases  with  which  he  explains  and  justifies  everything  to 
his  own  satisfaction. 


MYSTICISM  231 

genius  ?  That  would  be  difficult  to  prove.  He  was  a  vagabond, 
a  reprobate  rake,  and  his  poems  *  contain  outbursts  of  eroto- 
mania so  artlessly  shameless  that  their  parallel  in  literature 
could  hardly  be  found  with  the  author's  name  attached.  For 
his  fame  he  has  to  thank  just  those  bestially  sensual  pieces 
which  first  drew  to  him  the  attention  of  all  the  pruriency  of 
America.  He  is  morally  insane,  and  incapable  of  distinguishing 
between  good  and  evil,  virtue  and  crime.  '  This  is  the  deepest 
theory  of  susceptibility,'  he  says  in  one  place,  '  without  pre- 
ference or  exclusion  ;  the  negro  with  the  woolly  head,  the  bandit 
of  the  highroad,  the  invalid,  the  ignorant — none  are  denied.' 
And  in  another  place  he  explains  he  '  loves  the  murderer  and 
the  thief,  the  pious  and  good,  with  equal  love.'  An  American 
driveller,  W.  D.  O'Connor,  has  called  him  on  this  account  '  The 
good  gray  Poet.'  We  know,  however,  that  this  '  goodness,' 
which  is  in  reality  moral  obtuseness  and  morbid  sentimentality, 
frequently  accompanies  degeneration,  and  appears  even  in  the 
cruellest  assassins,  for  example,  in  Ravachol. 

He  has  megalomania,  and  says  of  himself : 

'  From  this  hour  I  decree  that  my  being  be  freed  from  all 
restraints  and  limits. 

'  I  go  where  I  will,  my  own  absolute  and  complete  master. 

'  I  breathe  deeply  in  space.     The  east  and  the  west  are  mine. 

'  Mine  are  the  north  and  south.  I  am  greater  and  better  than 
I  thought  myself. 

*  I  did  not  know  that  so  much  boundless  goodness  was  in 
me.  .  .  . 

'  Whoever  disowns  me  causes  me  no  annoyance. 

'  Whoever  recognises  me  shall  be  blessed,  and  will  bless  me.' 

He  is  mystically  mad,  and  announces  :  '  I  have  the  feeling  of 
all.  I  am  all,  and  believe  in  all.  I  believe  that  materialism  is 
true,  and  that  spiritualism  is  also  true ;  I  reject  nothing.'  And 
in  another  still  more  characteristic  passage : 

'  Santa  Spirita  \_sic  /"],  breather,  life. 
Beyond  the  light,  lighter  than  light, 

Beyond  the  flames  of  hell,  joyous,  leaping  easily  above  hell, 
Beyond  Paradise,  perfumed  solely  with  mine  ov/n  perfume, 
Including  all  life  on  earth,  touching,  including  God,  including  Saviour  and 

Satan, 
Ethereal,  pervading  all,  for  without  me  what  were  all?  what  were  God? 
Essence  of  forms,  life  of  the  real  identities  .  .  . 

Life  of  tbe  great  round  world,  the  sun  and  stars,  and  of  man,  I,  the  general 
soul.' 

In  his  patriotic  poems  he  is  a  sycophant  of  the  corrupt 
American  vote-buying,  official-bribing,  power-abusing,  dollar- 
democracy,  and  a  cringer  to  the  most  arrogant  Yankee  conceit, 

*  Walt  Whitman,  Leaves  of  Grass j  a  new  edition.     Glasgow,  1884. 


232  DEGENERATION 

His  war-poeais — the  much  renowned  Drum   Taps — are  chiefly 
remarkable  for  swaggering  bombast  and  stilted  patter. 

His  purely  lyrical  pieces,  with  their  ecstatic  'Oh  !'  and  'Ah!' 
with  their  soft  phrases  about  flowers,  meadows,  spring  and 
sunshine,  recall  the  most  arid,  sugary  and  effeminate  passages  of 
our  old  Gessner,  now  happily  buried  and  forgotten. 

As  a  man,  Walt  Whitman  offers  a  surprising  resemblance  to 
Paul  Verlaine,  with  whom  he  shared  all  the  stigmata  of 
degeneration,  the  vicissitudes  of  his  career,  and,  curiously 
enough,  even  the  rheumatic  ankylosis.  As  a  poet,  he  has 
thrown  off  the  closed  strophe  as  too  difficult,  measure  and 
rhyme  as  too  oppressive,  and  has  given  vent  to  his  emotional 
fugitive  ideation  in  hysterical  exclamations,  to  which  the  defini- 
tion of  *  prose  gone  mad  '  is  infinitely  better  suited  than  it  is 
to  the  pedantic,  honest  hexameters  of  Klopstock.  Uncon- 
sciously, he  seemed  to  have  used  the  parallelism  of  the  Psalms, 
and  Jeremiah's  eruptive  style,  as  models  of  form.  We  had  in 
the  last  century  the  Paramythien  of  Herder,  and  the  insufferable 
'poetical  prose'  of  Gessner  already  mentioned.  Our  healthy 
taste  soon  led  us  to  recognise  the  inartistic,  retrogressive  char- 
acter of  this  lack  of  form,  and  that  error  in  taste  has  found  no 
imitator  among  us  for  a  century.  In  Whitman,  however,  his 
hysterical  admirers  commend  this  rechauffe  of  a  superannuated 
literary  fashion  as  something  to  come  ;  and  admire,  as  an  inven- 
tion of  genius,  what  is  only  an  incapacity  for  methodical  work. 
Nevertheless,  it  is  interesting  to  point  out  that  two  persons  so 
dissimilar  as  Richard  Wagner  and  Walt  Whitman  have,  in 
different  spheres,  under  the  pressure  of  the  same  motives, 
arrived  at  the  same  goal — the  former  at  *  infinite  melody,'  which 
is  no  longer  melody  ;  the  latter  at  verses  which  are  no  longer 
verses,  both  in  consequence  of  their  incapacity  to  submit  their 
capriciously  vacillating  thoughts  to  the  yoke  of  those  rules 
which  in  'infinite'  melody,  as  in  lyric  verse,  govern  by  measure 
and  rhyme. 

Maeterlinck,  then,  in  his  poems  is  a  servile  imitator  of  crazy 
Walt  Whitman,  and  carries  his  absurdities  still  further.  Besides 
his  poems  he  has  written  things  to  which  one  cannot  w^ell  refuse 
the  name  of  plays,  since  they  are  cast  in  the  form  of  dialogues. 
The  best  known  of  them  is  T]ie  Princess  Maleine.* 

The  'dramatis  personae,'  as  he,  true  to  the  romantic  and 
mystical  practice  of  the  pre-Raphaelites  and  Symbolists,  entitles 
the  list  of  his  characters,  are  as  follows  :  Hjalmar,  King  of  one 
part  of  Holland  ;  Marcellus,  King  of  another  part  of  Holland  ; 
Prince  Hjalmar,  son  of  King  Hjalmar;  little  Allan,  son  of 
Queen  Anne  ;  Angus,  friend  to  Prince  Hjalmar  ;  Stephano  and 

*  Maurice  Maeterlinck,  The  Princess  Maleine  and  the  Intruder.  London: 
W.  Heinemann,  1892. 


MYSTICISM  233 

Vanox,  officers  of  Marcellus  ;  Anne,  Queen  of  Jutland  ;  Gode- 
Hva,  wife  of  King  Marcellus  ;  Princess  Maleine,  daucrhter  of 
Marcellus  and  Godeliva ;  Maleine's  nurse ;  Princess  Uglyane, 
daughter  of  Queen  Anne.  With  them  come  all  the  old  well- 
known  jointed  dolls  and  puppets  out  of  the  dustiest  corners  of 
the  old  lumber-rooms  of  romance — a  fool,  three  poor  people, 
two  old  peasants,  courtiers,  pilgrims,  a  cripple,  beggars,  vaga- 
bonds, an  old  woman,  seven  (the  mystic  number!)  nuns,  etc. 

The  names  which  Maeterlinck  gives  to  his  figures  should  be 
noted.  As  a  Fleming,  he  knows  very  well  that  Hjalmar  is  not 
Dutch,  but  Scandinavian  ;  that  Angus  is  Scotch.  But  he  make-j 
this  confusion  intentionally,  in  order  to  obliterate  the  distinct 
outlines  with  which  he  appears  to  surround  his  figures,  when  he 
calls  them  '  Kings  of  Holland ';  in  order  again  to  detach  them 
from  the  firm  ground  on  which  he  pretends  to  place  them  and  to 
suppress  their  co-ordinates,  which  assign  them  a  place  in  space 
and  time.  They  may  wear  clothes,  have  names  and  take  a 
human  rank,  but  all  the  while  they  are  only  shadows  and  clouds. 

King  Hjalmar  comes  with  Prince  Hjalmar  to  the  castle  of 
Marcellus  in  order  to  ask  for  the  hand  of  the  Princess  Maleine. 
The  two  young  people  see  each  other  for  the  first  time,  and 
only  for  a  few  minutes,  but  they  instantly  fall  in  love  with  each 
other.  At  the  banquet  in  honour  of  the  King  a  quarrel  breaks 
out,  about  which  we  learn  no  particulars  ;  King  Hjalmar  is 
seriously  ofi"ended,  swears  revenge,  and  leaves  the  castle  in  a 
rage.  In  the  interlude  Hjalmar  wages  war  against  Marcellus, 
kills  him  and  his  wife,  Godeliva,  and  at  once  razes  his  castle  and 
town  to  the  ground.  Princess  Maleine  and  her  nurse  were  on 
this  occasion — how,  why  and  by  whom  is  not  explained  — 
immured  in  a  vaulted  room  in  a  tower ;  then  the  nurse,  after 
three'  days  work  with  her  finger-nails,  loosens  a  stone  in  the 
wall,  and  the  two  women  obtain  their  liberty. 

Since  Maleine  loves  Hjalmar  and  cannot  forget  him,  they 
make  their  way  towards  his  father's  castle.  Things  are  going 
very  badly  in  Hjalmar's  castle.  There  Queen  Anne  of  Jutland 
resides,  who  has  been  driven  away  by  her  subjects,  and  with  her 
grown-up  daughter  Uglyane  and  her  little  son  Allan  (here  also 
the  Dane  is  systematically  given  a  Scottish  name),  has  found 
hospitality  with  King  Hjalmar,  Queen  Anne  has  turned  the 
head  of  the  old  man.  She  has  become  his  mistress,  rules  him 
completely,  and  makes  him  ill  in  body  and  soul.  She  wishes 
that  his  son  should  marry  her  daughter.  Hjalmar  is  in  despair 
about  his  father's  collapse.  He  detests  his  morganatic  step- 
mother, and  shudders  at  the  thought  of  a  marriage  with 
Uglyane.  He  believes  Maleine  to  have  been  slain  with  her 
parents  in  the  war,  but  he  cannot  yet  forget  her. 

Maleine  has  in  the  meantime  been  wandering  with  her  nurse 


234  DEGENERATION 

through  a  kind  of  enchanted  forest,  and  through  an  incompre- 
hensible village,  where  she  has  uncanny  meetings  with  all  sorts  of 
people,  beggars,  vagabonds,  peasants,  old  women,  etc.,  interchang- 
ing odd  talk,  and  reaches  Hjalmar's  castle,  where  no  one  knows 
her.  She  is,  however,  in  spite  of  this,  at  once  appointed  as  lady- 
in-waiting  to  the  Princess  Uglyane. 

One  evening  Prince  Hjalmar  decides  to  make  advances  to 
Uglyane,  and  with  that  object  he  gives  her  a  nocturnal  ren- 
dezvous in  the  park  of  the  castle,  not  a  secret,  but,  so  to  speak, 
an  official,  lovers'  tryst,  to  which  he,  with  his  father's  consent, 
and  she,  with  her  mother's,  is  to  go.  Maleine  hinders  it  by 
telling  Uglyane,  who  is  splendidly  attiring  and  adorning  her- 
self, that  Prince  Hjalmar  has  gone  into  the  forest  and  will  not 
come.  She  then  goes  herself  into  the  park,  and  makes  herself 
known  to  Hjalmar,  who  arrives  punctually.  He  leads  her  in 
great  delight  to  his  father,  who  receives  her  as  his  future 
daughter-in-law,  and  there  is  no  further  talk  of  his  betrothal  to 
Uglyane.  Queen  Anne  determines  to  get  rid  of  the  intruder. 
She  behaves  at  first  in  a  friendly  manner,  assigns  her  a  beautiful 
room  in  the  castle,  then  in  the  night  she  forces  the  King,  who 
for  a  long  time  resists  her,  to  penetrate  into  Maleine's  room, 
where  she  puts  a  cord  round  the  Princess's  neck  and  strangles 
her.  Signs  and  wonders  accompany  the  deed  :  a  tempest  forces 
open  a  window,  a  comet  appears,  a  wing  of  the  castle  falls  in 
ruins,  a  forest  bursts  into  flames,  swans  fall  wounded  out  of  the 
air,  etc.,  etc. 

Next  morning  the  body  of  the  Princess  Maleine  is  discovered. 
King  Hjalmar,  whom  the  night's  murder  has  robbed  of  the  last 
remnant  of  reason,  betrays  the  secret  of  the  deed.  Prince 
Hjalmar  stabs  Queen  Anne,  and  then  plunges  the  dagger  into 
his  own  heart.     Thereupon  the  piece  closes  thus  : 

Nurse.  Come  away,  my  poor  lord. 

King.  Good  God  !  good  God  !     She  is  waiting  now  on  the  wharf  of  hell ! 

Nurse.  Come  away  !  come  away  ! 

King.  Is  there  anybody  here  that  fears  the  curses  of  the  dead? 

Angus.  Ay,  my  lord,  I  do. 

King.  Well,  you  close  their  eyes,  and  let  us  be  gone. 

Nurse.  Ay,  ay.     Come  hence  !  come  hence  ! 

King.  I  will  ;  I  will.  Oh,  oh  !  how  lonely  I  shall  feel  hereafter  !  I  am 
steeped  in  misery  up  to  my  ears  at  seventy-seven  years  of  age.  But  where 
are  you  ? 

Nurse  !  Here,  here  ! 

King.  You  will  not  feel  angry  with  me?  Let  us  go  to  breakfast.  Will 
there  be  salad  for  breaklast  ?     I  should  like  a  little  salad. 

Nurse.   Yes,  yes.     You  shall  have  some,  my  lord. 

King.  I  do  not  know  why  ;  I  feel  somewhat  melancholy  to-day.  Good 
God  !  good  God  !     How  unhappy  the  dead  do  look  !         [Exti  with  NURSE. 

Angus.  Another  night  such  as  this,  and  all  our  heads  will  have  turned  white. 

\^Exeiint  all  sai'e  the  NuNS,  who  begin  singing  the  Mise7'ere  while 

conii eying  the  corpses  towards  the  bed.      2'he  church  bells  cease 

sounding.      Nightingales  are  heard  warbling  without.      A  cock 

jumps  on  the  window-sill,  afid  crows. 


MYSTICISM  235 

When  we  begin  to  read  this  piece  we  are  startled,  and  ask  : 
*  Why  is  all  this  so  familiar  to  me?  Of  what  does  it  remind 
me  ?'  After  a  few  pages  it  all  at  once  becomes  clear  :  the  whole 
thing  is  a  kind  of  cento  from  Shakespeare  !  Every  character, 
every  scene,  every  speech  in  any  way  essential  to  the  piece ! 
King  Hjalmar  is  put  together  out  of  King  Lear  and  Macbeth ; 
Lear  in  his  madness  and  manner  of  expressing  himself,  Mac- 
beth in  his  share  in  the  murder  of  the  Princess  Maleine.  Queen 
Anne  is  patched  up  out  of  Lady  Macbeth  and  Queen  Gertrude ; 
Prince  Hjalmar  is  unmistakably  Hamlet,  with  his  obscure 
speeches,  his  profound  allusions  and  his  inner  struggles  between 
filial  duty  and  morality  ;  the  nurse  is  from  Romeo  and  Juliet ; 
Angus  is  Horatio  ;  Vanox  and  Stephano  are  Rosenkranz  and 
Guildenstern,  with  an  admixture  of  Marcellus  and  Bernardo,  and 
all  the  subordinate  characters,  the  fool,  the  doctor,  the  courtiers, 
etc.,  bear  the  physiognomy  of  Shakespeare's  characters. 

The  piece  begins  in  the  following  manner : 

The  Gardens  of  the  Castle. 

Enter  Stephano  a;^^  Vanox. 

Vanox.  What  o'clock  is  it  ? 

Stephano.  Judging  from  the  moon,  it  should  be  midni;;ht. 

Vanox.  I  think  'tis  going  to  rain. 

Let  us  compare  this  with  the  first  scene  in  Hamlet : 

A  platform  before  the  Castle. 

Francisco  .  .  .  Bernardo. 

Francisco.  You  come  most  carefully  upon  your  hour. 

Bernardo.  'Tis  now  struck  twelve.  .  .  . 

Francisco.    .  .  .  'Tis  bitter  cold,  and  I  am  sick  at  heart,  etc. 

One  could,  if  it  were  worth  while,  trace  scene  for  scene,  word  for 
word,  from  some  passage  in  Shakespeare.  In  the  Princesse 
Maleine  we  find  in  succession  the  fearfully  stormy  night  from 
Julius  C(Esar  (Act  L,  Scene  3)  ;  the  entrance  of  King  Lear  into 
the  palace  of  Albany  (Act  I.,  Scene  4  .  .  .  •  Lear  :  Let  me 
not  stay  a  jot  for  dinner;  go,  get  it  ready,*  etc.);  the  night 
scene  in  Macbeth,  where  Lady  Macbeth  induces  her  husband  to 
commit  murder  ;  the  thrice-repeated  '  Oh  !  oh  !  oh  !'  of  Othello 
which  Queen  Anne  here  utters ;  Hamlet's  conversation  with 
Horatio,  etc.  The  death  of  the  Princess  Maleine  has  been 
inspired  by  memories  both  of  Desdemona  suffocated  and  of 
Cordelia  hanged.  All  this  is  jumbled  up  in  the  craziest  manner, 
and  often  distorted  almost  beyond  recognition,  or  given  the 
opposite  meaning ;  but,  with  a  little  attention,  one  can  always 
find  one's  way. 

Let  us  imagine  a  child,  at  the  age  when  he  is  able  to  follow 
the  conversation  of  grown-up  people,  attending  a  performance 


236  DEGENERATION 

or  a  reading  of  Hamlet,  Lear^  Macbeth,  Romeo  and  Juliet  and 
Richard  II.,  and  who  on  his  return  to  the  nursery  should  relate 
in  his  own  way  to  his  little  brothers  and  sisters  what  he  had 
heard.  We  should  in  this  way  get  a  correct  idea  of  the  composi- 
tion of  Princesse  Maleine.  Maeterlinck  has  crammed  himself 
with  Shakespeare,  and  reproduces  the  pieces  undigested,  yet 
repulsively  altered  and  with  the  beginnings  of  foul  decomposi- 
tion. This  is  an  unappetizing  picture,  but  it  alone  can  serve 
to  illustrate  the  mental  process  which  goes  on  in  the  so-called 
*  creations'  of  the  degenerate.  They  read  greedily,  receive  a 
very  strong  impression  in  consequence  of  their  emotionalism  ; 
this  pursues  them  with  the  force  of  an  '  obsession,'  and  they  do 
not  rest  till  they  have  reproduced,  sadly  travestied,  what  they 
have  read.  Thus  their  works  resemble  the  coins  of  the 
barbarians,  which  are  imitations  of  Roman  and  Greek  models, 
while  betraying  that  their  artificers  could  not  read  or  under- 
stand the  letters  and  symbols  inscribed  on  them, 

Maeterlinck's  Princesse  Maleine  is  a  Shakespearian  anthology 
for  children  or  Tierra  del  Fuegians.  The  characters  of  the 
British  poet  have  gone  to  make  parts  for  the  actors  in  a  theatre 
of  monkeys.  They  still  remind  us  more  or  less  of  the  attitudes 
and  movements  of  the  persons  whom  they  ape,  but  they  have 
not  a  human  brain  in  their  heads,  and  cannot  say  two  connected 
and  rational  words.  Here  are  a  few  examples  of  the  manner 
in  which  Maeterlinck's  people  converse : 

King  Marcellus  in  the  First  Act  (Scene  2)  endeavours  to 
dissuade  the  Princess  Maleine  from  loving  Hjalmar. 

Marcellus.  Well,  Maleine ! 

Maleine.  My  lord  ? 

Marcellus.  Do  you  not  understand? 

Maleine.  What,  my  lord  ? 

Marcellus.  Will  you  promise  me  to  forget  Hjalmar  ? 

Maleine.  My  lord !  .  .  . 

Marcellus.  What  say  you  ?     Do  you  still  love  Hjalmar? 

Maleine.  Ay,  my  lord. 

Marcellus.  Ay,  my  lord.  Oh,  devils  and  tempests  I  she  coolly  confesses 
it.  She  dares  to  tell  me  this  without  shame.  She  has  seen  Hjalmar  once 
only,  for  one  single  afternoon,  and  now  she  is  hotter  than  hell. 

GODELIVA.  My  lord  !  .  .  . 

Marcellus.  Be  silent,  you.  "  Ay,  my  lord  !"  and  she  is  not  yet  fifteen  ! 
Ha  !  it  makes  one  long  to  kill  them  then  and  there.  .  .  . 

GODELIVA.  My  lord.  ... 

Nurse.  Isn't  she  free  to  love,  just  like  anyone  else?  Do  you  mean  to 
put  her  under  a  glass  case?  Is  this  a  reason  to  bully  a  poor  child?  She 
has  done  no  harm.  .  .  . 

Marcellus.  Oh,  she  has  done  no  harm  !  .  .  .  Now,  in  the  first  place, 
hold  your  peace,  you.  ...  I  am  not  addressing  you  ;  and  it  is  doubtless  at 
your  prompting,  you  procuress.  .  .  . 

GODELIVA.  My  lord  !  .  .  . 

Nurse.  A  procuress  !     I  a  procuress  ! 

Marcellus.  Will  you  let  me  speak?  Begone!  begone,  both  of  you! 
Oh  !  I  know  well  enough  you  have  put  your  heads  together,  and  that  the 


MYSTICISM  237 

season  of  scheming  and  plotting  has  set  in  ;  but  wait  awhile.  .  .  .  Now, 
Maleine,  .  .  .  you  should  be  reasonable.  Will  you  promise  to  be  reasonable  ? 

Maleine.  Ay,  my  lord. 

Marcellus.  There  !  come  now.  Therefore  you  will  not  think  any  more 
of  this  marriage?  .  .  . 

Maleine.  Ay. 

Marcellus.  Ay?    You  mean  you  will  forget  Prince  Hjalmar? 

Maleine.  No. 

Marcellus.  You  do  not  yet  give  up  Prince  Hjalmar  ? 

Maleine.  No. 

Marcellus.  Now,  supposing  I  compel  you  ?  Ay,  I !  and  supposing  I 
have  you  put  under  lock  and  key  ?  and  supposing  I  separate  you  for  ever- 
more from  your  Hjalmar  with  his  puny,  girlish  face?  What  say  you  ?  {She 
weeps)    Ha !  that's  it — is  't  ?    Begone,  and  we  shall  see  about  that — begone  ! 

Next,  the  scene  in  the  second  act,  where  Maleine  and  Hjahnar 
meet  in  the  gloomy  park  of  the  castle : 

Hjalmar.    .  .  .  Come  1 

Maleine.  Not  yet. 

Hjalmar.  Uglyane  !  Uglyane! 

\_Kisses  her.     Here  the  waterfall,  blown  about  by  the  wind,  collapses 
and  splashes  them. 

Maleine.  Oh  !  what  have  you  done  ? 

Hjalmar.  It  is  the  fountain. 

Maleine.  Oh,  oh  ! 

Hjalmar.  It's  the  wind. 

Maleine.  I  am  afraid. 

Hjalmar.  Think  not  of  that  any  longer.  Let  us  get  further  away.  Let 
us  not  think  of  that  any  more.     Ah,  ah,  ah  !  I  am  wet  all  over. 

Maleine.  There  is  somebody  weeping,  close  by  us. 

Hjalmar.  Somebody  weeping? 

Maleine.  I  am  afraid. 

Hjalmar.  But  cannot  you  hear  that  it's  only  the  wind  ? 

Maleine.  What  are  all  those  eyes  on  the  tree,  though  ? 

Hjalmar.  Where?  Ha!  those  are  the  owls.  They  have  returned.  I 
will  put  them  to  flight.     {^Throws  earth  at  them.~)     Away  !  away  1 

Maleine.  There  is  yonder  one  that  will  not  go. 

Hjalmar.  Where  is  it  ? 

Maleine.  On  the  weeping  willow. 

Hjalmar.  Away  ! 

Maleine.  He  is  not  gone. 

Hjalmar.  Away,  away  !  [Throws  earth  at  the  owl. 

Maleine.  Oh  !  you  have  thrown  earth  on  me. 

Hjalmar.  Thrown  earth  on  you  ? 

Maleine.  Ay,  it  fell  on  me. 

Hjalmar.  Oh,  my  poor  Uglyane  ! 

Maleine.  I  am  afraid. 

Hjalmar.  Afraid— at  my  side  ? 

Maleine.  There  are  flames  amid  the  trees. 

Hjalmar.  That  is  nothing— mere  lightning.  It  has  been  very  sultry 
to-day. 

Maleine.  I  am  afraid.  Oh  !  who  can  be  digging  so  at  the  ground  around 
us? 

Hjalmar.  That  is  nothing.     'Tis  but  a  mole— a  poor  little  mole  at  work. 

(The  mole  in  Hamlet !     To  our  old  acquaintance  greeting  I) 
Maleine.  I  am  afraid. 


238  DEGENERATION 

After  some  more  conversation  in  the  same  style  : 

HjALMAR.  What  are  you  thinking  of  ? 
Maleine.  I  feel  sad. 

HjALMAR.  Sad  ?     Now,  what  are  your  sad  thoughts  about,  Uglyane? 
Mai.eine.  I  am  thinking  of  Princess  Maleine. 
HjALMAR.  What  do  you  say  ? 
Maleine.  I  am  thinking  of  Princess  Maleine.* 
HjALMAR.  Do  you  know  Princess  Maleine? 
Maleine.  I  am  Princess  Maleine. 
HjALMAR.  You  are  not  Uglyane  ? 
Maleine.  I  am  Princess  Maleine. 

HjALMAR.  What  !  you  Princess  Maleine  ?  Dead!  But  Princess  Maleine 
is  dead  ! 

Maleine.  I  am  Princess  Maleine. 

Has  anyone  anywhere  in  the  poetry  of  the  two  worlds  ever 
seen  such  complete  idiocy  ?  These  *  Ahs  '  and  '  Ohs,'  this  want 
of  comprehension  of  the  simplest  remarks,  this  repetition  four 
or  five  times  of  the  same  imbecile  expressions,  gives  the  truest 
conceivable  clinical  picture  of  incurable  cretinism.  These  parts 
are  precisely  those  most  extolled  by  Maeterlinck's  admirers. 
According  to  them,  all  has  been  chosen  with  a  deep  artistic 
intention.  A  healthy  reader  will  scarcely  swallow  that.  Maeter- 
linck's puppets  say  nothing,  because  they  have  nothing  to  say. 
Their  author  has  not  been  able  to  put  a  single  thought  into 
their  hollow  skulls,  because  he  himself  possesses  none.  The 
creatures  moving  on  his  stage  are  not  thinking  and  speaking 
human  beings,  but  tadpoles  or  slugs,  considerably  more  stupid 
than  trained  fleas  at  a  fair. 

Moreover,  Princesse  Maleine  is  not  altogether  a  Shake- 
spearian dream.  The  '  seven  nuns,'  e.g.^  belong  to  Maeter- 
linck. They  are  an  astounding  invention.  They  are  ever 
marching  like  demented  geese  through  the  piece,  winding  in 
and  out,  with  their  psalm-singing,  through  all  the  rooms  and 
corridors  of  the  King's  castle,  through  the  court,  through  the 
park,  through  the  forest,  coming  unexpectedly  round  a  corner 
in  the  middle  of  a  scene,  trotting  across  the  stage  and  off  at  the 
other  side  without  anyone  understanding  whence  they  come, 
whither  they  go,  or  for  what  purpose  they  are  brought  on  at  all. 
They  are  a  living  '  obsession,'  mixing  itself  irresistibly  in  all  the 
incidents  of  the  piece.  Here  also  we  find  all  the  intellectual  fads 
which  we  noticed  in  the  Serves  Chaiidcs.  The  Princess  Maleine 
is  herself  the  embodiment  of  the  hungry,  sick,  strayed  princesses, 
wandering  over  the  meadows,  who  haunt  these  poems,  and 
undoubtedly  sprang  from  Swinburne's  ballad  of  The  King's 
Daughters.  The  canals  also  play  their  part  (p.  i8).  'And  the 
expression  of  her  eyes !  It  seemed  as  though  one  were  all  of  a 
sudden  in  a  great  stream  [Fr.  canaL\  of  fresh  water.  .  .  .'  (p.  no). 
*We  have  been  to  look  at  the  windmills  along  the  canal,'  etc, 
*  Omitted  in  the  English  translation. — Translator. 


MYSTICISM  239 

And   sick  people  and   illness  are    mentioned  on   almost  every 
page  (p.  no)  : 

Anne.  I  was  fever-stricken  myself. 

The  King.  Everyone  is  fever-stricken  on  arriving  here, 

HjALMAR.  There  is  much  fever  in  the  village,  etc. 

Besides  Princesse  Maleine,  Maeterlinck  has  written  some  other 
pieces.  One,  L Intruse  (The  Intruder),  deals  with  the  idea  that 
in  a  house  where  a  sick  person  lies  in  extremis,  Death  intrudes 
towards  midnight,  that  he  walks  audibly  through  the  garden, 
makes  at  first  a  few  trial  strokes  with  his  scythe  on  the  grass 
before  the  castle,  then  knocks  at  the  door,  forces  it  open  because 
they  will  not  admit  him,  and  carries  off  his  victim.  In  a  second, 
Les  Aveugles  (The  Blind),  we  are  shown  how  a  number  of  blind 
men,  the  inmates  of  a  blind  asylum,  were  led  by  an  old  priest 
into  a  forest,  how  the  priest  died  suddenly  without  a  sound,  how 
the  blind  men  did  not  at  first  notice  this,  but  becoming  at  length 
uneasy,  groped  about,  succeeded  in  touching  the  corpse,  already 
growing  cold,  assured  themselves  by  questioning  each  other  that 
their  leader  was  dead,  and  then  in  terrible  despair  awaited  death 
by  hunger  and  cold.  For  this  charming  story  takes  place  on  a 
wild  island  in  the  far  north  ;  and  between  the  wood  and  the 
asylum  lies  a  river,  crossed  by  only  one  bridge,  which  the  blind 
cannot  find  without  a  guide.  It  never  occurs  either  to  Maeter- 
linck or  to  his  inconsolable  blind  men  as  possible  that  in  the 
asylum,  where,  as  is  expressly  mentioned,  there  are  attendant 
nuns,  the  long  absence  of  the  whole  body  of  blind  men  would 
be  noticed,  and  someone  sent  out  to  look  for  them.  The  reader 
will  not  expect  me  to  point  out  in  detail  the  craziness  of  the 
assumption  in  both  these  pieces,  or  that,  after  these  examples, 
I  should  relate  and  analyze  two  other  pieces  of  Maeterlinck's, 
Les  Sept  Princesses  ('  seven,'  of  course  !)  and  Pelleas  et  Melisande. 

The  Intruder  has  been  translated  into  several  languages^  and 
performed  in  many  towns.  The  Viennese  laughed  at  its  im- 
becility. In  Paris  and  London  men  shook  their  heads.  In 
Copenhagen  an  audience  of  appreciators  of  the  '  poetry  of  the 
future  '  was  touched,  enraptured  and  inspired.  This  demon- 
strates the  hysteria  of  to-day  quite  as  much  as  the  piece  itself 

The  history  of  Maeterlinck's  celebrity  is  especially  remarkable 
and  instructive.  This  pitiable  mental  cripple  vegetated  for  years 
wholly  unnoticed  in  his  corner  in  Ghent,  without  the  Belgian 
Symbolists,  who  outbid  even  the  French,  according  him  the 
smallest  attention  ;  as  to  the  public  at  large,  no  one  had  a 
suspicion  of  his  existence.  Then  one  fine  day  in  1890  his  writings 
fell  accidentally  into  the  hands  of  the  French  novelist,  Octave 
Mirbeau.  He  read  them,  and  whether  he  desired  to  make  fun 
of  his  contemporaries  in  grand  style,  or  whether  he  obeyed  some 
morbid  '  impulsion '  is  not  known  ;  it  is  sufficient  to  say  that  he 


240  DEGENERATION 

published  in  Le  Figaro  an  article  of  an  unheard-of  extravagance, 
in  which  he  represented  Maeterlinck  as  the  most  brilliant, 
sublime,  moving  poet  which  the  last  three  hundred  years  had 
produced,  and  assigned  him  a  place  near — nay,  above  Shake- 
speare. And  then  the  world  witnessed  one  of  the  most  extra- 
ordinary and  most  convincing  examples  of  the  force  of 
suggestion.  The  hundred  thousand  rich  and  cultivated  readers 
to  whom  the  Figaro  addresses  itself  immediately  took  up  the 
views  which  Mirbeau  had  imperiously  suggested  to  them.  They 
at  once  saw  Maeterlinck  with  Mirbeau's  eyes.  They  found  in 
him  all  the  beauties  which  Mirbeau  asserted  that  he  perceived 
in  him,  Andersen's  fairy-tale  of  the  invisible  clothes  of  the 
emperor  repeated  itself  line  for  line.  They  were  not  there,  but 
the  whole  court  saw  them.  Some  imagined  they  really  saw  the 
absent  state  robes  ;  the  others  did  not  see  them,  but  rubbed 
their  eyes  so  long  that  they  at  least  doubted  whether  they  saw 
them  or  not  ;  others,  again,  could  not  impose  upon  themselves, 
but  dared  not  contradict  the  rest  Thus  Maeterlinck  became  at 
one  stroke,  by  Mirbeau's  favour,  a  great  poet,  and  a  poet  of  the 
*  future.'  Mirbeau  had  also  given  quotations  which  would  have 
completely  sufficed  for  a  reader  who  was  not  hysterical,  not 
given  over  irresistibly  to  suggestion,  to  recognise  Maeterlinck 
for  what  he  is,  namely,  a  mentally  debilitated  plagiarist  ;  but 
these  very  quotations  wrung  cries  of  admiration  from  the  Figaro 
public,  for  Mirbeau  had  pointed  them  out  as  beauties  of  the 
highest  rank,  and  one  knows  that  a  decided  affirmation  is  suffi- 
cient to  compel  hypnotic  subjects  to  eat  raw  potatoes  as  oranges, 
and  to  believe  themselves  to  be  dogs  or  other  quadrupeds. 

Everywhere  apostles  were  quickly  at  hand  to  proclaim,  inter- 
pret and  extol  the  new  master.  The  '  mashers '  of  the  critic 
world,  whose  ambition  is  set  on  being  the  first  to  assume — nay, 
where  it  is  possible,  to  foretell — the  very  latest  fashions,  the 
fashion  of  to-morrow,  as  much  in  the  styles  of  literature,  as  in 
the  colour  and  shape  of  neckties,  vied  with  each  other  in  deifying 
Maeterlinck.  Ten  editions  of  his  Princesse  Maleine  have  been 
sold  out  since  Mirbeau's  suggestion,  and,  as  1  have  said  before, 
his  Aveiigles  and  Iiitriise  have  been  performed  in  various  places. 

We  now  know  the  different  forms  under  which  the  mysticism 
of  degeneration  manifests  itself  in  contemporary  literature.  The 
magism  of  a  Guaita  and  a  Papus,  the  Androgyne  of  a  Peladan, 
the  anxiomania  of  a  Rollinat,  the  idiotic  drivelling  of  a  Maeter- 
linck, may  be  regarded  as  its  culminating  aberrations.  At  least 
I  cannot  myself  imagine  that  it  would  be  possible  for  mysticism 
to  go  beyond,  even  by  the  thickness  of  a  hair,  these  extreme 
points  without  even  the  hysterical,  the  devotees  and  the  snobs  of 
fashion,  who  are  still  in  some  degree  capable  of  discernment, 
recognising  in  it  a  profound  and  complete  intellectual  darkness. 


BOOK  III. 

EGO-MANIA, 
CHAPTER  I. 

THE   PSYCHOLOGY   OF   EGO- MANIA. 

However  dissimilar  such  individualities  as  Wagner  and  Tolstoi, 
Rossetti  and  Verlaine,  may  at  first  sight  appear,  we  have,  never- 
theless, encountered  in  all  of  them  certain  common  traits,  to 
wit,  vague  and  incoherent  thought,  the  tyranny  of  the  association 
of  ideas,  the  presence  of  obsessions,  erotic  excitability,  religious 
enthusiasm,  by  which  we  may  recognise  them  as  members  of 
one  and  the  same  intellectual  family,  and  justify  their  union  into 
one  single  group — that  of  mystics. 

We  must  go  a  step  farther  and  say  that  not  only  the  mystics 
among  the  degenerate,  but  in  the  main  all  the  degenerate,  of 
whatever  nature  they  may  be,  are  moulded  from  the  same  clay. 
They  all  show  the  same  lacunae,  inequalities,  and  malformations 
in  intellectual  capacity,  the  same  psychic  and  somatic  stigmata. 
If,  then,  anyone,  having  a  certain  number  of  degenerate  subjects 
to  judge  from,  were  to  bring  into  prominence  and  represent  as 
their  exclusive  peculiarity  merely  mystical  thought  in  some, 
merely  erotic  emotionalism  in  others,  merely  vague,  barren, 
fraternal  love  and  a  mania  for  regenerating  the  world,  or 
else  merely  an  impulsion  to  commit  acts  pf  a  criminal  nature, 
etc,  he  would  manifestly  be  seeing  only  one  side  of  the 
phenomenon,  and  taking  no  account  of  the  rest.  One  or 
another  stigma  of  degeneration  may,  in  a  given  case,  be 
especially  apparent ;  but,  on  duly  careful  inspection,  the 
presence  of  all  the  others,  or,  at  least,  indications  of  them,  will 
be  discerned. 

To  the  celebrated  French  alienist,  Esquirol,  is  due  the  signal 
merit  of  having  discovered  that  there  are  forms  of  mental  de- 
rangement in  which  thought  proceeds  apparently  in  a  perfectly 
rational  manner,  but  in  which,  in  the  midst  of  intelligent  and 
logical  cerebral  activity,  some  insane  presentations  appear,  like 
i6 


242  DEGENERATION 

erratic  boulders,  thus  enabling  us  to  recognise  the  subject  as 
mentally  diseased.  But  Esquirol  has  committed  the  fault  of 
not  digging  deep  enough ;  his  observation  is  too  much  on 
the  surface.  It  was  through  this  that  he  came  to  introduce 
into  science  the  notion  of  *  monomania,'  that  is,  of  well- 
delimitated,  partial  madness,  of  an  isolated,  fixed  idea  beside 
which  all  the  rest  of  the  intellectual  life  operates  with  sanity. 
This  was  an  error.  There  is  no  monomania.  Esquirol's  own  pupil, 
the  elder  Falret,  has  sufficiently  proved  it,  and  our  Westphal, 
from  whose  other  merits  I  have  no  wish  to  detract,  was  far 
from  standing  in  the  forefront  of  research,  when,  half  a  century 
after  Esquirol,  and  thirty  years  after  Falret,  he  still  described 
the  *  fear  of  space,'  or  agoraphobia,  as  a  special  mental  malady, 
or  kind  of  monomania.  What  is  apparently  monomania  is  in 
reality  an  indication  of  a  profound  organic  disorder  which  never 
reveals  itself  by  one  single  phase  of  folly.  A  fixed  idea  never 
exists  in  isolation.*  It  is  always  accompanied  by  other  irregu- 
larities of  thought  and  feeling,  which,  it  is  true,  at  a  cursory 
glance,  may  not  be  so  distinctly  remarked  as  the  more  strongly 
developed  insane  idea.  Recent  clinical  observation  has  dis- 
covered a  long  series  of  similar  fixed  ideas  or  '  monomanias,'  and 
recognised  the  fact  that  they  are  one  and  all  the  consequence  of  a 
fundamental  disposition  of  the  organism,  viz.,  of  its  degeneration. 
It  was  unnecessary  for  Magnan  to  give  a  special  name  to  each 
symptom  of  degeneration,  and  to  draw  up  in  array,  with  almost 
comical  effect,  the  host  of  '  phobias  '  and  '  manias.'  Agoraphobia 
(fear  of  open  space),  claustrophobia  (fear  of  enclosed  space),  rupo- 
phobia  (fear  of  dirt),  iophobia  (fear  of  poison),  nosophobia  (fear  of 
sickness),  aichmophobia  (fear  of  pointed  objects),  belenophobia 
(fear  of  needles),  cremnophobia  (fear  of  abysses),  trichophobia  (fear 
of  hair),  onomatomania  (folly  of  words  or  names),  pyromania  (in- 
cendiary madness),  kleptomania  (madness  for  theft),  dipsomania 
(madness  for  drink),  erotomania  (love  madness),  arithmomania 
(madness  of  numbers),  oniomania  (madness  for  buying),  etc.  This 
list  might  be  lengthened  at  pleasure,  and  enriched  by  nearly  all 
the  roots  of  the  Greek  dictionary.  It  is  simply  philologico-medical 
trifling.  None  of  the  disorders  discovered  and  described  by 
Magnan  and  his  pupils,  and  decorated  with  a  sonorous  Greek 
name,  forms  an  independent  entity,  and  appears  separately ;  and 
Morel  is  right  in  disregarding  as  unessential  all  these  varied 
manifestations  of  a  morbid  cerebral  activity,  and  adhering  to  the 
principal  phenomenon  which  lies  at  the  base  of  all  the  '  phobias ' 

*  Lisandro  Reyes  has  clearly  seen  this  in  his  useful  sketch  entitled 
Co7itribiitio7i  d.  V Etude  de  PEtat  nie7ttal  chez  les  Enfants  dcgcnerds  j  Paris, 
1890,  p.  8.  He  affirms  expressly  that  among  degenerate  children  there  is 
no  really  exclusive  '  monomania.'  '  Among  them  an  isolated  delirious  idea 
may  endure  for  some  time,  but  it  is  most  frequently  replaced  all  at  once  by 
a  new  conception.' 


EGO-MANIA  243 

and  '  manias,'  namely,  the  great  emotionalism  of  the  degenerate.* 
If  to  emotionalism,  or  an  excessive  excitability,  he  had  added 
the  cerebral  debility,  which  implies  feebleness  of  perception,  will, 
memory,  judgment,  as  well  as  inattention  and  instability,  he  would 
have  exhaustively  characterized  the  nature  of  degeneration,  and 
perhaps  prevented  psychiatry  from  being  stuffed  with  a  crowd 
of  useless  and  disturbing  designations.  Kowalewski  approached 
much  nearer  to  the  truth  in  his  well-known  treatise,t  where  he 
has  represented  all  the  mental  disorders  of  the  degenerate  as 
one  single  malady,  which  merely  presents  different  degrees  of 
intensity,  and  which  induces  in  its  mildest  form  neurasthenia  ; 
under  a  graver  aspect  impulsions  and  groundless  anxieties  ;  and, 
in  its  most  serious  form,  the  madness  of  brooding  thought  or 
doubt.  Within  these  limits  may  be  ranged  all  the  particular 
'  manias'  and  'phobias'  which  at  present  swarm  in  the  literature 
of  mental  therapeutics. 

But  if  it  be  untenable  to  make  a  particular  malady  out  of 
every  symptom  in  which  the  fundamental  disorder  {i.e.,  de- 
generation) shows  itself,  it  should  not,  on  the  other  hand,  be 
ignored  that  among  certain  of  the  degenerate  a  group  of  morbid 
phenomena  distinctly  predominates,  without  involving  the 
absence  of  the  other  groups.  Thus,  it  is  permissible  to  dis- 
tinguish among  them  certain  principal  species,  notably,  beside 
the  mystics,  of  whom  we  have  studied  the  most  remarkable 
representatives  in  contemporary  art  and  poetry,  the  ego-maniacs 
{Ichsiichtigeii).  It  is  not  from  affectation  that  I  use  this  word 
instead  of  the  terms  '  egoism '  {Selbstsucht)  and  '  egoist,'  so 
generally  employed.  Egoism  is  a  lack  of  amiability,  a  defect 
in  education,  perhaps  a  fault  of  character,  a  proof  of  insuffi- 
ciently developed  morality,  but  it  is  not  a  disease.  The  egoist 
is  quite  able  to  look  after  himself  in  life,  and  hold  his  place  in 
society  ;  he  is  often  also,  when  the  attainment  of  low  ends  only 
is  in  view,  even  more  capable  than  the  superior  and  nobler  man, 
who  has  inured  himself  to  self-abnegation.  The  ego-maniac,  on 
the  contrary,  is  an  invalid  who  does  not  see  things  as  they  are,  does 
not  understand  the  world,  and  cannot  take  up  a  right  attitude 
towards  it.  The  difference  I  make  in  German  between  Ichsiicht 
and  SelbstsucJit,  the  French  also  make  in  their  language,  where 
a  careful  writer  will  never  confound  the  word  '  egotisme,' 
borrowed  from  the  English,  with  '  egoisme  ' — that  is,  selfishness. 

Of  course  the  reader  to  whom  the  mental  physiognomy  of  ego- 
maniacs is  shown  ought  always  to  remember  that,  if  the  prin- 
cipal representatives  of  this  species  and  of  that  of  the  mystics  are 

*  Legrain  {^Du  Delire  chez  les  Degineris.,  Paris,  1886)  merely  expresses  this 
in  somewhat  different  words,  when  he  says  (p.  68),  '  Obsession,  impulsion, 
these  are  to  be  found  at  the  base  of  all  monomania.' 

f  Analyzed  in  \h&  Journal  of  Mental  Science,  January,  1888. 


244  DEGENERATION 

characterized  with  sufficient  clearness,  the  confines  of  the  latter 
type  are  fluctuating.  The  ego-maniacs  are,  on  the  one  hand,  at 
once  mystics,  erotics,  and,  though  it  seems  paradoxical,  even  affect 
occasionally  an  appearance  of  philanthropy  ;  among  the  mystics, 
on  the  other  hand,  we  frequently  meet  with  a  strongly-developed 
ego-mania.  There  are  certain  specimens  among  the  degenerate 
in  whom  all  the  disorders  are  produced  to  such  an  equal  degree 
that  it  is  doubtful  whether  they  ought  to  be  classed  with  the 
mystics  or  the  ego-maniacs.  As  a  general  rule,  however,  co-ordi- 
nation under  one  class  or  the  other  will  not  be  very  difficult. 

That  egoism  is  a  salient  feature  in  the  character  of  the  degene- 
rate has  been  unanimously  confirmed  by  all  observers.  *  The 
degenerate  neither  knows  nor  takes  interest  in  anything  but 
himself,'  says  Roubinovitch  ;*  and  Legrain-f-  asserts  that  he 
'  has  .  .  .  only  one  occupation,  that  of  satisfying  his  appetites.' 
This  peculiarity  establishes  a  bond  which  unites  the  highest  of  the 
degenerate  to  the  lowest,  the  insane  genius  to  the  feeble  mental 
cripple.  '  All  delirious  geniuses,'  remarks  Lombroso,  '  are  very 
much  captivated  by,  and  preoccupied  with,  their  own  selves,'J 
and  SoUier  writes  on  the  subject  of  their  antipodes,  the  im- 
beciles :  *  Undisciplined  as  they  are,  they  obey  only  through  fear, 
are  often  violent,  especially  to  those  who  are  weaker  than  them- 
selves, humble  and  submissive  towards  those  they  feel  to  be 
stronger.  They  are  without  affection,  egoistic  in  the  highest 
degree,  braggarts. '§ 

The  clinicist  is  satisfied  with  indicating  the  fact  of  this 
characteristic  egoism,  but  for  ourselves  we  wish  further  to  in- 
vestigate what  are  its  organic  roots,  why  the  degenerate  must 
be  more  than  egoistic,  why  he  must  be  an  ego-maniac,  and  cannot 
be  otherwise. 

In  order  to  understand  how  the  consciousness  of  the  *  I ' 
(morbidly  exaggerated  and  frequently  increasing  to  megalo- 
mania) originates,  we  must  recall  how  the  healthy  consciousness 
of  the  '  I '  is  formed. 

•  It  is,  of  course,  not  my  intention  here  to  treat  of  the  whole 
theory  of  cognition.  It  is  only  the  most  important  results  of 
this  science,  so  highly  developed  in  the  present  day,  that  can 
fi[nd  place  in  this  work. 

It  has  become  a  philosophical  commonplace  that  we  know 
directly  only  those  changes  which  take  place  in  our  own 
organism.  If,  in  spite  of  this,  we  are  able  to  form  an  image  of 
the  external  world  surrounding   us,  from   perceptions   derived 

*  J.  Roubinovitch,  Hysterie  nidle  et  Deg^nirescence.     Paris,  1890,  p.  62. 
t  Legrain,  op.  cit.,  p.  10. 

X  Lombroso,  Geiiie  und  Irrsinn  (German  edition  cited  in  vol.  i.),  p.  325. 
§  Dr.  Paul  SoUier,  Psvchologie  de  V Idiot  et  de  P Imbecile.     Paris,  1890, 
p.  174- 


EGO-MANIA  245 

only  from  within,  it  is  because  we  trace  the  changes  in  our 
organism  which  we  have  perceived  to  causes  exterior  to  it ;  and 
from  the  nature  and  force  of  the  changes  taking  place  in  our 
organism  draw  conclusions  as  to  the  nature  and  force  of  the 
external  events  causing  them. 

How  we  come  in  general  to  assume  that  there  is  something 
exterior,  and  that  changes  perceived  by  us  only  in  our  organism 
can  have  causes  which  are  not  in  the  organism  itself,  is  a  ques- 
tion over  which  metaphysics  has  cudgelled  its  brain  for  centuries. 
So  little  has  it  found  an  answer,  that,  in  order  to  put  an  end  to 
this  difficulty  anyhow,  it  has  simply  denied  the  very  question,  and 
jumped  to  the  conclusion  that  the  '  I '  has  actually  no  knowledge 
of  a  '  not-I,'  of  an  external  world,  and  cannot  have  it  because 
there  is  no  external  world  at  all,  that  what  we  so  call  is  a  creation 
of  our  mind,  and  exists  only  in  our  thought  as  a  presentation, 
but  not  outside  our  '  I '  as  a  reality. 

It  is  a  fact  characteristic  of  the  soporific  action  exercised  by 
the  sound  of  a  word  on  the  human  mind  that  this  wholly  sense- 
less cackle,  glib,  well  arranged  and  formed  into  the  philosophical 
system  of  idealism,  should  have  thoroughly  satisfied  for  nearly 
eight  generations  the  greater  number  of  professional  meta- 
physicians, from  Berkeley  to  Fichte,  Schelling  and  Hegel.  These 
wise  men  repeated,  in  a  tone  of  conviction,  the  doctrine  of  the 
non-existence  of  the  '  not-I,'  and  it  did  not  trouble  them  that 
they  themselves  contradicted  constantly,  in  all  their  actions,  their 
own  fustian  ;  that  they  devoted  themselves  from  their  birth  to 
their  death  to  an  uninterrupted  series  of  absolutely  absurd 
actions,  if  there  were  no  objective  external  world  ;  that  therefore 
they  themselves  recognised  their  system  to  be  but  wind  and 
shadow,  a  childish  game  with  words  devoid  of  sense.  And  the 
most  logical  among  these  grave  drivellers.  Bishop  Berkeley, 
did  not  even  observe  that  after  all  he  had  not  obtained,  even  at 
the  price  of  the  total  abdication  of  common  sense,  the  answer 
he  sought  to  the  fundamental  question  of  knowledge,  for  his 
dogmatic  idealism  denies,  it  is  true,  the  reality  of  the  external 
world,  but  admits  with  frivolous  thoughtlessness  that  there  are 
other  minds  outside  of  him,  Berkeley,  and  even  a  universal 
mind.  Thus,  then,  even  according  to  him,  the  *  I '  is  not  all  ; 
there  is  still  something  outside  of  the  '  I,'  a  '  not-I ' ;  there  does 
exist  an  external  world,  if  only  under  the  form  of  immaterial 
spirits.  This,  however,  brings  up  the  question,  How  does 
Berkeley's  *  I '  come  to  conceive  the  existence  of  something 
outside  of  itself,  the  existence  of  a  *  not-I'?  That  was  the 
question  which  had  to  be  answered,  and,  in  spite  of  its  sacrificing 
the  whole  world  of  phenomena,  Berkeley's  idealism,  like  the 
idealism  of  every  one  of  his  successors,  makes  no  reply  to  it 
whatsoever. 


246  DEGENERATION 

Metaphysics  could  find  no  answer  to  the  question,  because  the 
latter,  as  stated  by  the  former,  does  not  admit  of  an  answer. 
Scientific  psychology  —  i.e.,  psycho-physiology  —  does  not  en- 
counter the  same  difficulties.  It  does  not  take  the  finished  *  I ' 
of  the  adult,  clearly  conscious  of  himself,  feeling  himself  dis- 
tinctly opposed  to  the  '  not-I '  to  the  entire  external  world,  but 
it  goes  back  to  the  beginnings  of  this  '  1/  investigates  in  what 
manner  it  is  formed,  and  then  finds  that,  at  a  time  when  the 
idea  of  the  existence  of  a  *  not-I,'  would  be  really  inexplicable, 
this  idea,  in  fact,  was  absolutely  non-existent,  and  that,  when 
we  do  meet  it,  the  '  I '  has  already  had  experiences  which  com- 
pletely explain  how  it  could  and  must  arrive  at  the  formation  of 
the  idea  of  a  '  not-I.' 

We  may  assume  that  a  certain  degree  of  consciousness  is  the 
accompanying  phenomenon  of  every  reaction  of  the  protoplasm 
on  external  action — i.e.,  is  a  fundamental  quality  of  living 
matter.  Even  the  simplest  unicellular  living  organisms  move 
with  obvious  intention  towards  certain  goals,  and  away  from  cer- 
tain points ;  they  distinguish  between  foods  and  such  materials 
as  are  unfit  for  nutrition  ;  thus  they  have  a  species  of  will  and 
judgment,  and  these  two  activities  presuppose  consciousness.* 
What  may  be  the  nature  of  this  consciousness  localized  in  pro- 
toplasm not  yet  even  differentiated  into  nerve-cells,  is  a  thing 
of  which  it  is  impossible  for  the  human  mind  to  form  a  definite 
idea.  The  only  thing  we  can  presuppose  with  any  certainty 
is  that  in  the  crepuscular  consciousness  of  a  unicellular 
organism,  the  notion  of  an  *  I '  and  a  '  not-I,'  which  is  opposed 
to  it,  does  not  exist.  The  cell  feels  changes  in  itself,  and  these 
changes  provoke  others,  in  accordance  with  established  bio- 
chemical or  bio-mechanical  laws  ;  it  receives  an  impression  to 
which  it  responds  by  a  movement,  but  it  has  certainly  no  idea 
that  the  impression  is  caused  by  a  process  in  the  external  world, 
and  that  its  movement  reacts  on  the  external  world. 

Even  among  animals  very  much  higher  in  the  scale,  and 
considerably  more  advanced  in  differentiation,  a  consciousness 
of  the  *  Ego,'  properly  so  called,  is  inconceivable.  How  can 
the  ray  of  a  star-fish,  the  bud  of  a  tunicate,  of  a  botryllus, 
the  half  of  a  double  animal  (diplozoon),  the  tube  of  an 
actinia,  or  of  some  other  coral  polypus,  be  aware  of  itself  as  a 
separate  '  I,'  seeing  that,  though  it  is  an  animal,  it  is  at  the 

*  See  on  this  subject  the  remarkable  treatise  of  Alfred  Binet,  *  On  the 
Psychic  Life  of  Micro-organisms,'  contained  in  the  volume  of  extracts  :  ''  Le 
F^tichisme  da?is  P Amour  (^Etudes  de  Fsychologie  expcrimentale~).  La  Vie 
psychiqiie  des  Micro-orga77isines,  Plntensite  des  Images  vientales.,  le  Problhne 
hypnotique,  Note  siir  i'Ecriiure  hyste'nqtte.'  Paris,  1890. — A  short  time  before 
Bmet,  tnis  same  subject  was  treated  by  Verworn  in  a  very  deserving  manner, 
at  once  original  and  suggestive,  in  \i\%Psycho-physiologische  Protisien-Studien, 
Jena,  1889. 


EGO-MANIA  247 

same  time  a  portion  of  a  composite  animal,  of  a  colony  of 
animals,  and  must  perceive  impressions  which  strike  it  directly, 
as  well  as  those  experienced  by  a  companion  of  the  same 
colony?  Or  can  certain  large  worms,  many  of  the  species  of 
Eunice,  for  example,  have  an  idea  of  their  '  Ego,'  when  they 
neither  feel  nor  recognise  portions  of  their  own  bodies  as  con- 
stituent parts  of  their  individuality,  and  begin  to  eat  their  tails 
when,  by  any  accident  in  coiling  themselves,  it  happens  to  lie 
in  front  of  their  mouths  ? 

The  consciousness  of  the  '  Ego '  is  not  synonymous  with 
consciousness  in  general.  While  the  latter  is  probably  an 
attribute  of  all  living  matter,  the  former  is  the  result  of  the 
concordant  action  of  a  nervous  tissue  highly  differentiated  and 
'hierarchized,'  or  brought  into  a  relation  of  mutual  dependence. 
It  appears  very  late  in  the  series  of  organic  evolution,  and  is, 
up  to  the  present,  the  highest  vital  phenomenon  of  which  we 
have  knowledge.  It  arises  little  by  little  from  experiences 
which  the  organism  acquires  in  the  course  of  the  natural  activity 
of  its  constituent  parts.  Every  one  of  our  nerve-ganglia,  every 
one  of  our  nerve-fibres,  and  even  every  cell,  has  a  subordinate 
and  faint  consciousness  of  what  passes  in  it.  As  the  whole 
nervous  system  of  our  body  has  numerous  communications 
between  all  its  parts,  it  perceives  in  its  totality  something  of  all 
the  stimulations  of  its  parts,  and  the  consciousness  which  ac- 
companies them.  In  this  manner  there  arises  in  the  centre 
where  all  the  nerve  ducts  of  the  whole  body  meet,  i.e.,  in  the 
brain,  a  total  consciousness  composed  of  innumerable  partial 
consciousnesses,  having  evidently  for  its  object  only  the  pro- 
cesses of  its  own  organism.  In  the  course  of  its  existence,  and 
that  at  a  very  early  period,  consciousness  distinguishes  two 
kinds  of  wholly  different  perceptions.  Some  appear  without 
preparation,  others  accompanied  and  preceded  by  other 
phenomena.  No  act  of  will  precedes  the  stimulation  of  the 
senses,  but  such  an  act  does  precede  every  conscious  movement. 
Before  our  senses  perceive  anything,  our  consciousness  has  no 
notion  of  what  they  will  perceive  ;  before  .our  muscles  execute 
a  movement,  an  image  of  this  movement  is  elaborated  in  the 
brain,  or  spinal  marrow  (in  the  case  of  a  reflex  action).  There 
exists  then,  beforehand,  a  presentation  of  the  movement  which 
the  muscles  will  execute.  We  feel  clearly  that  the  immediate 
cause  of  the  movement  lies  in  ourselves.  On  the  other  hand, 
we  have  no  similar  feelings  in  regard  to  sense-impressions. 
Again,  we  learn  by  the  muscular  sense  the  realization  of  motor 
images  elaborated  by  our  consciousness ;  on  the  other  hand,  we 
experience  nothing  similar  when  we  elaborate  a  motor  image 
not  having  our  own  muscles  exclusively  for  its  object.  We  ' 
wish,  for  example,  to  raise  our  arm.    Our  consciousness  elaborates 


248  DEGENERATION 

this  image,  the  brachial  muscles  obey,  and  consciousness  receives 
the  communication  that  the  image  has  been  realized  by  the 
brachial  muscles.  Next,  we  wish  to  raise  or  throw  a  stone  with 
our  arm.  Our  consciousness  elaborates  a  motor  image,  in- 
volving our  own  muscles  and  the  stone.  When  we  are  executing 
the  desired  and  meditated  movement,  our  consciousness  receives 
sensations  from  the  muscles  in  activity,  but  not  from  the 
stone.  Thus  it  perceives  the  movements  which  are  accom- 
panied by  muscular  sensations,  and  others  which  appear  with- 
out this  accompaniment. 

In  order  thoroughly  to  comprehend  the  formation  of  our 
consciousness  of  the  '  Ego,'  and  the  presentation  of  the  exist- 
ence of  a  '  non-Ego,'  we  must  consider  a  third  point.  All  the 
parts,  all  the  cells  of  our  body,  have  their  own  separate  con- 
sciousness, which  accompanies  every  one  of  their  excitations. 
These  excitations  are  occasioned  partly  by  the  activity  of 
nutrition,  of  assimilation,  of  the  cleavage  of  the  nucleus — that 
is  to  say,  by  the  vital  processes  of  the  cell  itself,  and  partly  by 
action  of  the  environment.  The  excitations  which  proceed 
from  the  interior,  the  bio-chemical  and  bio-mechanical  processes 
of  the  cell,  are  continued,  and  endure  as  long  as  the  life  of  the 
cell  itself  The  stimulations  which  are  the  result  of  the  action 
of  the  environment  only  appear,  of  course,  with  this  action,  i.e., 
not  continuously,  but  intermittently.  The  vital  processes  in 
the  cell  have  direct  value  and  significance  only  for  the  cell 
itself,  not  for  the  whole  organism ;  actions  of  the  environment 
may  become  important  for  the  whole  organism.  The  principal 
organ,  the  brain,  acquires  the  habit  of  neglecting  the  excitations 
relating  to  the  interior  vital  activity  of  the  cell — first,  because 
they  are  continuous,  and  we  perceive  distinctly  only  a  change  of 
state,  not  a  state  itself;  and  then,  because  the  cell  accomplishes  its 
own  functions  by  its  own  energy,  which  renders  the  interference 
of  the  brain  useless.  The  brain  takes  notice,  on  the  contrary, 
of  excitations  which  are  produced  by  action  ab  extra — first, 
because  they  appear  with  interruptions  ;  and,  secondly,  because 
they  may  necessitate  an  adaptation  of  the  whole  organism, 
which  could  only  take  place  through  the  intervention  of  the 
brain. 

It  cannot  be  doubted  that  the  brain  has  knowledge  also  of 
the  internal  excitations  of  the  organism,  and  only  for  the 
reasons  already  stated  is  not,  as  a  general  rule,  distinctly 
conscious  of  them.  If  through  illness  a  disturbance  is  produced 
in  the  functions  of  the  single  cell,  we  at  once  become  conscious  of 
the  processes  in  the  cell — we  feel  the  diseased  organ,  it  stimulates 
our  attention  ;  the  whole  organism  is  uncomfortable  and  out  of 
tune.  It  is  sensations  of  this  kind,  which,  in  a  healthy  state, 
do  not  distinctly  reach  our  consciousness,  that  make  up  the 


;  EGO-MANIA  249 

sensation  of  our  body,  our  organic  *  I,'  the  so-called  coensesthesis 
or  general  sensibility. 

Coensesthesis,  the  organic  dimly-conscious  *  I,'  rises  into  the 
clear  consciousness  of  the  '  Ego,'  by  excitations  of  the  second 
order,  reaching  the  brain  from  the  nerves  and  muscles,  for  they 
are  stronger  and  more  distinct  than  the  others,  and  are  inter- 
rupted. The  brain  learns  the  changes  produced  in  the  nervous 
system  by  external  causes,  and  the  contraction  of  the  muscles. 
How  it  has  knowledge  of  the  latter  is  still  obscure.  It  has  been 
recently  asserted  that  the  muscular  sense  has  for  its  seat  the 
nerves  of  the  joints.  This  is  certainly  false.  We  have  distinct 
sensations  of  the  contractions  of  muscles  which  put  no  joint  in 
movement — for  example,  of  the  orbicular  and  constrictor  muscles. 
Then  there  are  the  cramps  and  spasms  even  of  isolated  muscular 
fibres,  which  likewise  do  not  produce  a  change  of  position  in  the 
joints.  But  in  any  case  the  perceptions  of  muscular  sense  exist, 
however  they  are  or  are  not  produced. 

Thus  consciousness  very  soon  learns  that  the  muscular 
movements  it  perceives  are  preceded  by  certain  acts  accom- 
plished by  itself,  namely,  the  elaboration  of  motor  images,  and 
the  despatch  of  impulses  to  the  muscles.  It  receives  know- 
ledge of  these  movements  twice,  one  after  the  other — it  per- 
ceives them,  first,  directly  as  its  own  presentation  and  act  of 
volition,  as  a  motor  image  elaborated  in  the  nerve-centres ;  and 
immediately  afterwards  as  an  impression  arising  from  the 
muscular  nerves  as  accomplished  movement.  It  acquires  the 
habit  of  connecting  its  own  acts — those  previously  elaborated 
motor  images — with  the  muscular  movements,  and  of  regarding 
the  latter  a  consequence  of  the  former — in  short,  of  thinking 
causally.  If  consciousness  has  adopted  the  habit  of  causality, 
it  seeks  a  cause  in  all  its  perceptions,  and  can  no  longer  imagine 
a  perception  without  a  cause.  The  cause  of  muscular  percep- 
tions— that  is,  of  movements  consciously  willed — it  finds  in  itself. 
The  cause  of  nervous  perceptions — that  is,  the  information 
reported  by  the  nervous  system  concerning  the  excitations 
which  it  experiences — it  does  not  find  in  itself  But  the  latter 
must  have  a  cause.  Where  is  it  ?  As  it  is  not  in  conscious- 
ness, it  must  necessarily  exist  somewhere  else  ;  there  must  then 
be  something  else  outside  consciousness,  and  so  consciousness 
comes,  through  the  habit  of  causal  thought,  to  assume  the 
existence  of  something  outside  itself,  of  a  *  not-I,'  of  an  external 
world,  and  to  project  into  it  the  cause  of  the  excitations  which 
it  perceives  in  the  nervous  system. 

Experience  teaches  that  the  distinction  between  the  *  I '  and 
the  '  not-I '  is  really  only  a  question  of  a  habit  of  thought,  of  a 
form  of  thought,  and  not  of  an  effective,  certain  knowledge, 
which  carries  in  itself  the  criteria  of  its  accuracy  and  certitude. 


2SO  DEGENERATION 

When,  in  consequence  of  a  morbid  disturbance,  our  sensory 
nerves  or  their  centres  of  perception  are  excited,  and  conscious- 
ness acquires  knowledge  of  this  excitation,  it  imputes  to  it  with- 
out hesitation,  according  to  its  habit,  an  external  cause  existing 
in  the  *  not-L'  Hence  arise  illusions  and  hallucinations,  which 
the  patient  takes  for  realities,  and  that  so  positively  that  there 
is  absolutely  no  means  of  convincing  him  that  he  perceives  facts 
passing  within  him,  not  outside  of  him.  In  the  same  manner 
consciousness  concludes  that  the  movements  executed  uncon- 
sciously are  occasioned  by  an  extraneous  will.  It  perceives  the 
movement,  but  it  has  not  noticed  that  the  habitual  internal 
cause,  viz.,  a  motor  image  and  an  act  of  the  will,  has  preceded 
it ;  hence  it  places  the  cause  of  the  movement  without  hesitation 
in  the  'not -I,'  although  it  resides  in  the  *  I,'  and  is  only 
occasioned  by  subordinate  centres,  the  activity  of  which  remains 
concealed  from  consciousness.  This  it  is  which  gives  rise  to 
spiritualism,  which,  in  so  far  as  it  is  in  good  faith  and  not  openly 
a  hocus-pocus,  is  simply  a  mystical  attempt  to  explain  move- 
ments, the  real  cause  of  which  consciousness  does  not  find  in 
itself,  and  which  it  places,  in  consequence,  in  the  *  not-L' 

In  ultimate  analysis,  the  consciousness  of  the  '  Ego,'  and  notably 
the  opposition  of  the  'Ego '  and  the  'non-Ego,'  is  an  illusion  of 
the  senses  and  a  fallacy  of  thought.  Every  organism  is  related 
to  a  species,  and,  over  and  above  that,  to  the  universe.  It  is 
the  direct  material  continuation  of  its  parents ;  it  is  itself  con- 
tinued directly  and  materially  in  its  descendants.  It  is  com- 
posed of  the  same  materials  as  the  whole  environing  world  ; 
these  materials  are  constantly  penetrating  into  it,  transforming 
it,  producing  in  it  all  the  phenomena  of  life  and  consciousness. 
All  the  lines  of  action  of  the  forces  of  nature  are  prolonged 
in  its  interior ;  it  is  the  scene  of  the  same  physical  and  chemical 
processes  in  action  throughout  the  universe.  What  pantheism 
divines  and  clothes  in  needlessly  mystic  words  is  clear,  sober 
fact,  namely,  the  unity  of  nature,  in  which  each  organism  is  also 
a  part  related  to  the  whole.  Certain  parts  are  more  nearly  con- 
nected ;  others  are  more  separated  from  one  another.  Con- 
sciousness perceives  only  the  closely-knit  parts  of  its  physical 
basis,  not  those  more  remote.  Thus  it  falls  into  the  illusion 
that  the  parts  near  together  alone  belong  to  it,  and  that  the 
more  distant  are  strangers  to  it,  and  to  consider  itself  as  an 
•  individuum,'  confronting  the  world  as  a  separate  world  or 
microcosm.  It  does  not  observe  that  the  •  I,'  so  rigidly  posited, 
has  no  fixed  limits,  but  continues  and  spreads  beneath  the 
threshold  of  consciousness,  with  an  ever-diminishing  distinctness 
of  separation,  to  the  extreme  depths  of  nature,  till  it  blends 
there  with  all  the  other  constituents  of  the  universe. 

We  may  now  resume  much  more  briefly  the  natural  history  of 


EGO-MANIA  251 

the  *I'  and  the  'not-I,'  and  present  it  in  a  few  formulae.  Con- 
sciousness is  a  fundamental  quality  of  living  matter.  The 
highest  organism  itself  is  only  a  colony  of  the  simplest  organisms 
— that  is  to  say,  of  living  cells — differentiated  diversely  in  order 
to  qualify  the  colony  for  higher  functions  than  the  simple  cell 
can  accomplish.  The  collective  or  ego-consciousness  of  the 
colony  is  composed  of  the  individual  consciousness  of  the  parts. 
The  ego-consciousness  has  an  obscure  and  disregarded  part 
which  relates  to  the  vital  functions  of  the  cells,  or  the 
ccenaesthesis,  and  a  clear,  privileged  part  which  is  attentive  to 
the  excitations  of  the  sensory  nerves,  and  to  the  voluntary 
activity  of  the  muscles,  and  which  recognises  them.  Clear  con- 
sciousness learns  from  experience  that  acts  of  will  precede 
voluntary  movements.  It  arrives  at  the  assumption  of  causality. 
It  observes  that  the  sensorial  excitations  are  not  caused  by  any- 
thing contained  in  itself.  It  is  compelled,  in  consequence,  to 
transfer  this  cause,  the  assumption  of  which  it  cannot  renounce, 
elsewhere,  and  is  necessarily  first  brought  by  this  to  the  presenta- 
tion of  a  '  not-I,'  and  afterwards  to  the  development  of  this 
*  not-I '  into  an  apparent  universe. 

The  old  spiritualistic  psychology,  which  regards  the  '  Ego ' 
as  something  entirely  different  from  the  body,  as  a  special 
unitary  substance,  maintains  that  this  'Ego'  considers  its  own 
body  as  something  not  identical  with  it,  as  opposed  to  the  '  Ego  ' 
properly  so  called,  as  something  external — in  fact,  as  '  non-Ego.' 
Thus,  it  denies  ccenaesthesis — that  is  to  say,  an  absolutely  certain 
empirical  fact.  We  constantly  have  an  obscure  sensation  of  the 
existence  of  all  parts  of  our  body,  and  our  ego-consciousness 
immediately  experiences  a  change  if  the  vital  functions  of  any 
one  of  our  organs  or  tissues  suffers  a  disturbance.* 

Development  advances  from  the  unconscious  organic  '  I '  to 
the  clear  conscious  'I,'  and  to  the  conception  of  the  *  not-I.' 
The  infant  probably  has  coensesthesis  even  before,  in  any  case 
after,  its  birth,  for  it  feels  its  vital  internal  processes,  shows 
satisfaction  when  they  are  in  healthy  action,  manifests  its  dis- 
comfort by  movements  and  cries,  which  are  also  only  a  move- 
ment of  the  respiratory  and  laryngeal  muscles,  when  any  dis- 

♦  '  Certain  [sick]  persons  enjoy  keenly  a  sense  of  the  lightness  of  their 
body,  feel  themselves  hovering  in  the  air,  believe  they  could  fly  ;  or  else  they 
have  a  feeling  of  vi'eight  either  in  the  w^hole  body,  in  many  limbs,  or  in  one 
single  limb,  which  seems  to  them  huge  and  heavy.  A  young  epileptic 
sometimes  felt  his  body  so  extraordinarily  heavy  that  he  could  scarcely  raise 
it.  At  other  times  he  felt  himself  so  light  that  he  believed  he  did  not  touch 
the  ground.  Sometimes  it  seemed  to  him  that  his  body  had  assumed  such 
proportions  that  it  was  impossible  for  him  to  pass  through  a  door.  In  this 
last  illusion  .  .  .  the  patient  feels  himself  very  much  smaller  or  very 
much  larger  than  he  really  is.'— Th.  Ribot,  Les  Maladies  de  la  Perso7inalitJ, 
32  Edition.     Paris,  1889,  p.  35. 


252  DEGENERATION 

turbances  appear  there,  perceives  and  expresses  general  states 
of  the  organism,  such  as  hunger,  thirst  and  fatigue.  But  clear 
consciousness  does  not  yet  exist  for  it  ;  the  brain  has  not  yet 
taken  command  over  the  inferior  centres.  Sense-impressions 
are  perhaps  perceived,  but  certainly  not  yet  grouped  into  ideas  ; 
the  greater  part  of  the  movements  are  preceded  by  no  conscious 
act  of  will,  and  are  only  reflex  actions — that  is,  manifestations 
of  those  local  consciousnesses  which  later  become  so  obscure 
as  to  be  imperceptible,  when  the  cerebral  consciousness  has 
attained  its  full  clearness.  Little  by  little  the  higher  centres 
develop  ;  the  child  begins  to  give  heed  to  its  sense-impressions, 
to  form  from  its  perceptions  ideas,  and  to  make  voluntary  move- 
ments adapted  to  an  end.  With  the  awakening  of  its  conscious 
will  the  birth  of  the  consciousness  of  its  'Ego'  is  linked.  The 
child  apprehends  that  it  is  an  individual.  But  its  internal 
organic  processes  occupy  it  very  much  more  than  does  the 
procedure  of  the  external  world,  transmitted  to  it  by  the  sensory 
nerves,  and  its  own  states  fill  up  its  consciousness  more  or  less 
completely.  The  child  is,  for  this  reason,  a  model  of  egoism, 
and,  until  it  reaches  a  more  advanced  age,  is  wholly  incapable 
of  displaying  either  attention  or  interest  in  anything  at  all  which 
is  not  directly  connected  with  itself,  its  needs  and  inclinations. 
By  the  continued  culture  of  his  brain  man  finally  arrives  at  that 
degree  of  maturity  in  which  he  acquires  a  just  idea  of  his 
relations  to  other  men  and  to  Nature.  Then  consciousness  pays 
less  and  less  regard  to  the  vital  processes  in  its  own  organism, 
and  more  and  more  to  the  stimulations  of  its  senses.  It  only 
notices  the  former  when  they  reveal  pressing  necessities ;  it  is, 
on  the  contrary,  always  concerned  with  the  latter  when  in  a 
waking  state.  The  '  I '  retires  decidedly  behind  the  '  not-I,' 
and  the  image  of  the  world  fills  the  greater  part  of  conscious- 
ness. 

As  the  formation  of  an  '  I,'  of  an  individuality  clearly  conscious 
of  its  separate  existence,  is  the  highest  achievement  of  living 
matter,  so  the  highest  degree  of  development  of  the  '  I  *  consists 
in  embodying  in  itself  the  '  not-I,'  in  comprehending  the  world, 
in  conquering  egoism,  and  in  establishing  close  relations  with 
other  beings,  things  and  phenomena.  Auguste  Comte,  and 
after  him  Herbert  Spencer,  have  named  this  stage  '  altruism,' 
from  the  Italian  word  altrui,  'others.'  The  sexual  instinct 
which  forces  an  individual  to  seek  for  another  individual  is  as 
little  altruism  as  the  hunger  which  incites  the  hunter  to  follow 
an  animal  in  order  to  kill  and  eat  it.  There  can  be  no  question 
of  altruism  until  an  individual  concerns  himself  about  another 
being  from  sympathy  or  curiosity,  and  not  in  order  to  satisfy  an 
immediate,  pressing  necessity  of  his  body,  the  momentary 
hunger  of  some  organ. 


EGO-MANIA 


253 


Not  till  he  attains  to  altruism  is  man  in  a  condition  to  main- 
tain himself  in  society  and  in  nature.  To  be  a  social  being-, 
man  must  feel  with  his  fellow-creatures,  and  show  himself  sensi- 
tive to  their  opinion  about  him.  Both  the  one  and  the  other 
presuppose  that  he  is  capable  of  so  vividly  representing  to  him- 
self the  feelings  of  his  fellow-creatures  as  to  experience  them 
himself.  He  who  is  not  capable  of  imagining  the  pain  of 
another  with  sufficient  clearness  to  suffer  the  same  himself  will 
not  have  compassion,  and  he  who  cannot  exactly  feel  for  himself 
what  impression  an  action  or  an  omission  on  his  part  will  make 
on  another  will  have  no  regard  for  others.  In  both  cases  he  will 
soon  see  himself  excluded  from  the  human  community  as  the 
enemy  of  all,  and  treated  as  such  by  all,  and  very  probably  he 
will  perish.  And  to  defend  himself  against  destructive  natural 
forces  and  turn  them  to  his  advantage,  man  must  know  them 
intimately — that  is,  he  must  be  able  distinctly  to  picture  their 
effects.  A  clear  presentation  of  the  feelings  of  others,  and  of 
the  effects  of  natural  forces,  presupposes  the  faculty  of  occupy- 
ing himself  intensively  with  the  '  not-I.'  While  a  man  is  attend- 
ing to  the  '  not-I,'  he  is  not  thinking  of  his  '  Ego,'  and  the  latter 
descends  below  the  level  of  consciousness.  In  order  that  the 
*  not-I  '  should  in  this  way  prevail  over  the  '  I,'  the  sensory 
nerves  must  properly  conduct  the  external  impressions,  the 
cerebral  centres  of  perception  must  be  sensitive  to  the  excita- 
tions of  the  sensory  nerves,  the  highest  centres  must  develop,  in 
a  sure,  rapid  and  vigorous  manner,  the  perceptions  into  ideas, 
unite  these  into  conceptions  and  judgments,  and,  on  occasion, 
transform  them  into  acts  of  volition  and  motor  impulses.  And 
as  the  greatest  part  of  these  different  activities  is  accomplished 
by  the  gray  cortex  of  the  frontal  lobes,  this  means  that  this  gray 
cortex  must  be  well  developed  and  work  vigorously. 

It  is  thus  that  a  sane  man  appears  to  us.  He  perceives  little 
and  rarely  his  internal  excitations,  but  always  and  clearly  his 
external  impressions.  His  consciousness  is  filled  with  images  of 
the  external  world,  not  with  images  of  the  activity  of  his  organs. 
The  unconscious  work  of  his  inferior  centres  plays  an  almost 
vanishing  part  by  the  side  of  the  fully  conscious  work  of  the 
highest  centres.  His  egoism  is  no  stronger  than  is  strictly 
necessary  to  maintain  his  individuality,  and  his  thoughts  and 
actions  are  determined  by  knowledge  of  Nature  and  his  fellow- 
creatures,  and  by  the  consideration  he  owes  to  them. 

Quite  otherwise  is  the  spectacle  offered  by  the  degenerate  per- 
son. His  nervous  system  is  not  normal.  In  what  the  digression 
from  the  norm  ultimately  consists  we  do  not  know.  Very  prob- 
ably the  cell  of  the  degenerate  is  formed  a  little  differently  from 
that  of  sane  men,  the  particles  of  the  protoplasm  are  otherwise 
and    less   regularly  disposed ;    the    molecular    movements  take 


254  DEGENERATION 

place,  in  consequence,  in  a  less  free  and  rapid,  less  rhythmic 
and  vigorous,  manner.  This  is,  however,  a  mere  undemonstrable 
hypothesis.  Nevertheless,  it  cannot  reasonably  be  doubted  that 
all  the  bodily  signs  or  '  stigmata'  of  degeneration,  all  the  arrests 
and  inequalities  of  development  that  have  been  observed,  have 
their  origin  in  a  bio-chemical  and  bio-mechanical  derangement 
of  the  nerve-cell,  or,  perhaps,  of  the  cell  in  general. 

In  the  mental  life  of  the  degenerate  the  anomaly  of  his  nervous 
system  has,  as  a  consequence,  the  incapacity  of  attaining  to  the 
highest  degree  of  development  of  the  individual,  namely,  the 
freely  coming  out  from  the  factitious  limits  of  individuality,  i.e., 
altruism.  As  to  the  relation  of  his  '  Ego  '  to  his  '  non-Ego,'  the 
degenerate  man  remains  a  child  all  his  life.  He  scarcely  appre- 
ciates or  even  perceives  the  external  world,  and  is  only  occupied 
with  the  organic  processes  in  his  own  body.  He  is  more  than 
egoistical,  he  is  an  ego-maniac. 

His  ego-mania  may  spring  directly  from  different  circum- 
stances of  his  organism.  His  sensory  nerves  may  be  obtuse,  are,  in 
consequence,  but  feebly  stimulated  by  the  external  world,  trans- 
mit slowly  and  badly  their  stimuli  to  the  brain,  and  are  not  in  a 
condition  to  incite  it  to  a  sufficiently  vigorous  perceptive  and 
ideational  activity.  Or  his  sensory  nerves  may  work  moder- 
ately well,  but  the  brain  is  not  sufficiently  excitable,  and  does 
not  perceive  properly  the  impressions  which  are  transmitted  to 
it  from  the  external  world. 

The  obtuseness  of  the  degenerate  is  attested  by  almost  all 
observers.  From  the  almost  illimitable  number  of  facts  which 
could  be  adduced  on  this  point,  we  will  only  give  a  very  concise, 
but  sufficiently  characteristic  selection.  'Among  many  idiots,' 
says  Sollier,  '  there  is  no  distinction  between  sweet  and  bitter. 
When  sugar  and  colocynth  are  administered  to  them  alternately, 
they  manifest  no  change  of  sensation.  .  .  .  Properly  speaking, 
taste  does  not  exist  among  them.  .  .  .  Besides  this,  there  are 
perversions  of  taste.  We  are  not  speaking  here  of  complete 
idiots  .  .  .  but  even  of  imbeciles  who  eat  ordure  or  repulsive 
things  .  .  .  even  their  own  excrements.  .  .  .  The  same  remarks 
apply  to  smell.  Perhaps  sensibility  appears  still  more  abso- 
lutely obtuse  for  smells  than  for  taste.  .  .  .  Tactile  sensi- 
bility is  very  obtuse  in  general,  but  it  is  always  uniformly  so. 
.  .  .  Sometimes  it  might  be  a  question  whether  there  is  not 
complete  anaesthesia.'*  Lombroso  has  examined  the  general 
sensitiveness  of  skin  in  sixty-six  criminals,  and  has  found  it 
obtuse  in  thirty-eight  among  them,  and  unequal  in  the  two  halves 
of  the  body  in  forty-six.-]-     In   a  later  work   he   sums   up  in 

*  Sollier,  Psychologic  de  P Idiot  el  de  I'Jinbc'cile,  p.  ^2  et  seq. 
■f  Lombroso,  L'Uomo  delinquente.      3^  edizione.      Toraio,   1884,    p.  329 
et  seq. 


EGO-MANIA  255 

these  words  his  observations  of  sensorial  acuteness  in  the  degene- 
rate :  *  Inaccessible  to  the  feeling  of  pain,  themselves  without  feel- 
ing, they  never  understand  pain  even  in  others.'*  Ribot  traces 
the  *  diseases  of  personality '  (that  is,  the  false  ideas  of  the  *  I ') 
to  'organic  disturbances,  of  which  the  first  result  is  to  depress 
the  faculty  of  feeling  in  general ;  the  second,  to  pervert  it'  '  A 
young  man  whose  conduct  had  always  been  excellent  suddenly 
gave  himself  up  to  the  worst  inch'nations.  It  was  ascertained 
that  in  his  mental  condition  there  was  no  sign  of  evident  aliena- 
tion, but  it  could  be  seen  that  the  whole  outer  surface  of  the 
skin  had  become  absolutely  insensible.'  *  It  may  seem  strange 
that  weak  and  false  sensitivity  .  .  .  that  is,  that  simple  disturb- 
ances or  sensorial  alterations  should  disorganize  the  "  Ego." 
Nevertheless,  observation  proves  it/f  MaudsleyJ  describes 
some  cases  of  degeneration  among  children  whose  skin  was  in- 
sensible, and  remarks :  '  They  cannot  feel  impressions  as  they 
naturally  should  feel  them,  nor  adjust  themselves  to  their  sur- 
roundings, with  which  they  are  in  discord  ;  and  the  motor 
outcomes  of  the  perverted  affections  of  self  are  accordingly  of  a 
meaningless  and  destructive  character.'§ 

The  defective  sensibility  of  the  degenerate,  confirmed  by  all 
observers,  is,  moreover,  susceptible  of  different  interpretations. 
Whereas  many  consider  it  a  consequence  of  the  pathological  con- 
dition of  the  sensory  nerves,  others  believe  that  the  perturbation 
has  its  seat,  not  in  these  nerves,  but  in  the  brain  ;  not  in  the  ducts, 
but  in  the  centres  of  perception.  To  quote  one  of  the  most  emi- 
nent among  the  psycho-physiologists  of  the  new  school,  Binet|| 
has  proved  that,  *  if  a  portion  of  the  body  of  a  person  is  in- 
sensible, he  is  ignorant  of  what  passes  there  ;  but,  on  the  other 
hand,  the  nervous   centres  in    connection  with  this   insensible 

*  Lombroso,  Les  Applicatio7is  de  P Anthropologie  criininelle.    Paris,  1892, 

P-  179- 

f  Th.  Ribot,  Les  Maladies  de  la  Personitahte',  pp.  61,  78,  105. 

%  Maudsley,  The  Pathology  of  Mind.     London,  1879,  p.  287. 

§  See  also  Alfred  Binet,  Les  Alterations  de  la  Perso}tnalitd^  Paris,  1892, 
p.  39  :  '  His  senses  close  to  outside  stimulation  ;  for  him,  the  external  world 
ceases  to  exist  ;  he  lives  no  more  than  his  exclusively  personal  life  ;  he  acts 
only  through  his  own  stimuli,  with  the  automatic  movement  of  his  brain. 
Although  he  receives  nothing  more  from  outside,  and  his  personality  is 
completely  isolated  from  the  surroundings  in  which  he  is  placed,  he  may  be 
seen  to  go,  come,  do,  act,  as  if  he  had  his  senses  and  intelligence  in  full 
exercise.'  This,  it  is  true,  is  the  description  of  a  patient,  but  what  he  says 
of  the  latter  applies  equally,  with  a  difference  of  degree  only,  to  the 
ego-maniac.  F^re  has  communicated  to  the  Biological  Society  of  Paris,  in 
the  sednce  of  November  12,  1892,  the  results  of  a  great  number  of  experi- 
ments made  by  him,  whence  it  appears  'that  among  the  greater  part  of 
epileptics,  hysterical  and  degenerate  subjects,  cutaneous  sensibility  is 
diminished.'     See  La  Seniaine  medicate,  1892,  p.  456. 

II  Alfred  Binet,  Les  Alterations  de  la  Personnalite.  Paris,  1892,  pp.  83,  85, 
et  seq. 


2S6  DEGENERATION 

region  can  continue  to  act ;  the  result  is  that  certain  acts,  often 
simple,  but  sometimes  very  complicated,  can  be  accomplished  in 
the  body  of  a  hysterical  subject,  without  his  knowledge  ;  much 
more,  these  acts  can  be  of  a  psychical  nature,  and  manifest 
an  intelligence  which  will  be  distinct  from  that  of  the  sub- 
ject, and  will  constitute  a  second  "  I  "  co-existent  with  the  first. 
For  a  long  time  there  was  a  misconception  of  the  true  nature 
of  hysterical  anaesthesia,  and  it  was  compared  to  a  common 
anaesthesia  from  organic  causes,  due,  for  example,  to  the  inter- 
ruption of  afferent  nerves.  This  view  must  be  wholly  aban- 
doned, and  we  know  now  that  hysterical  anaesthesia  is  not 
a  true  insensibility ;  it  is  insensibility  from  unconsciousness 
from  mental  disaggregation ;  in  a  word,  it  is  psychical  insensi- 
bility.' 

Most  frequently  it  is  not  a  question  of  simple  cases,  where  it 
is  the  sensory  nerves  alone,  or  only  the  cerebral  centres  which 
work  badly,  but  of  mixed  cases,  where  the  two  apparatuses  have 
a  diversely  varying  part  in  the  disturbance.  But  whether  the 
nerves  do  not  conduct  the  impressions  to  the  brain,  or  the  brain 
does  not  perceive,  or  does  not  raise  the  impressions  brought 
to  it  into  consciousness,  the  result  is  always  the  same, 
viz.,  the  external  world  will  not  be  correctly  and  distinctly 
grasped  by  consciousness,  the  *not-I '  will  not  be  suitably  repre- 
sented in  consciousness,  the  '  I '  will  not  experience  the  necessary 
derivation  of  the  exclusive  preoccupation  with  the  processes 
taking  place  in  its  own  organism. 

The  natural  healthy  connection  between  organic  sensations 
and  sense-perceptions  is  much  more  strongly  displaced  when  to 
the  insensibility  of  the  sensory  nerves,  or  of  the  centres  of  per- 
ception, or  both,  is  added  an  unhealthily  modified  and  intensified 
vital  activity  of  the  organs.  Then  the  organic  ego-sensibility, 
or  ccensesthesis,  advances  irrepressibly  into  the  foreground, 
overshadowing  in  great  part  or  wholly  the  perceptions  of  the 
external  world  in  consciousness,  which  no  longer  takes  notice 
of  anything  but  the  interior  processes  of  the  organism.  In 
this  way  there  originates  that  peculiar  hyper- stimulation  or 
emotionalism  constituting,  as  we  have  seen,  the  fundamental 
phenomenon  of  the  intellectual  life  of  the  degenerate.  For  the 
fundamental  emotional  tone,  despairing  or  joyful,  angry  or  tear- 
ful, which  determines  the  colour  of  his  presentations  as  well  as  the 
course  of  his  thoughts,  is  the  consequence  of  phenomena  taking 
place  in  his  nerves,  vessels  and  glands.*  The  consciousness  of 
the  emotionally  degenerate  subject  is  filled  with  obsessions  which 

*  '  The  organic,  cardiac,  vaso-motor,  secretory,  etc.,  phenomena  accompany- 
ing almost  all,  if  not  all,  affective  states  .  .  .  far  from  following  the  conscious 
phenomenon,  precede  it  ;  none  the  less  they  remain  in  many  cases  uncon- 
scious.'— Gley,  quoted  by  A.  Binet,  Les  Al/^rations  de  la  Personnalite^  p.  208. 


EGO-MANIA  257 

are  not  inspired  by  the  events  of  the  external  world,  and  by 
impulsions  which  are  not  the  reaction  against  external  stimula- 
tion. To  this  is  added  next  the  unfailing  weakness  of  will  of 
the  degenerate  person,  which  makes  it  impossible  for  him  to 
suppress  his  obsessions,  to  resist  his  impulsions,  to  control 
his  fundamental  moods,  to  keep  his  higher  centres  to  the 
attentive  pursuit  of  objective  phenomena.  According  to  the 
saying  of  the  poet,  the  necessary  result  of  these  conditions  is 
that  the  work  must  be  differently  reflected  in  such  heads  than 
it  is  in  normal  ones.  The  external  world,  the  '  not-I,'  either  does 
not  exist  at  all  in  the  consciousness  of  an  emotionally  degenerate 
subject,  or  it  is  merely  represented  there  as  on  a  faintly  reflecting 
surface,  by  a  scarcely  recognisable,  wholly  colourless  image,  or, 
as  in  a  concave  or  convex  mirror,  by  a  completely  distorted, 
false  image  ;  consciousness,  on  the  other  hand,  is  imperiously 
monopolized  by  the  somatic  *  I,'  which  does  not  permit  the 
mind  to  be  occupied  with  anything  but  the  painful  or  tumultuous 
processes  taking  place  in  the  depths  of  the  organs. 

Badly-conducting  sensory  nerves,  obtuse  perceptive  centres  in 
the  brain,  weakness  of  will  with  its  resulting  incapacity  of  atten- 
tion, morbidly  irregular  and  violent  vital  processes  in  the  cells, 
are  therefore  the  organic  basis  on  which  ego-mania  develops. 

The  ego-maniac  must  of  necessity  immensely  over-estimate  his 
own  importance  and  the  significance  of  all  his  actions,  for  he  is 
only  engrossed  with  himself,  and  but  little  or  not  at  all  with  ex- 
ternal things.  He  is  therefore  not  in  a  position  to  comprehend 
his  relation  to  other  men  and  the  universe,  and  to  appreciate  pro- 
perly the  part  he  has  to  play  in  the  aggregate  of  social  institutions. 
There  might  at  this  juncture  be  an  inclination  to  confound  ego- 
mania with  megalomania,  but  there  is  a  characteristic  difference 
between  the  two  states.  Megalomania,  it  is  true,  is  itself,  like 
its  clinical  complement,  the  delusion  of  persecution,  occasioned 
by  morbid  processes  within  the  organism  obliging  consciousness 
perpetually  to  be  attending  to  its  own  somatic  '  Ego.'  More 
especially  the  unnaturally  increased  bio-chemical  activity  of  the 
organs  gives  rise  to  the  pleasantly  extravagant  presentations  of 
megalomania,  while  retarded  or  morbidly  aberrant  activity 
gives  rise  to  the  painful  presentations  of  the  delusion  of  per- 
secution.* In  megalomania,  however,  as  in  the  delusion  of  per- 
secution, the  patient  is  constantly  engrossed  with  the  external 

*  This  is  not  merely  a  simple  hypothesis,  but  a  well-demonstrated  fact. 
Hundreds  of  experiments  by  Boeck,  Weill,  Moebius,  Charrin,  Mairet,  Bosc, 
Slosse,  Laborde,  Marie,  etc.,  have  established  that  among  the  deranged, 
during  periods  of  excitation  and  afterwards,  the  urine  is  more  toxic,  i.e.,  more 
full  of  waste  and  excreted  organic  matter,  while  after  the  periods  of  depres- 
sion it  is  less  toxic,  z'.^.,  poorer  in  disaggregated  matter,  than  among  sane 
individuals,  which  proves  that,  among  the  former,  the  nutrition  of  the  tissues 
is  morbidly  increased  or  retarded. 

17 


258  DEGENERATION 

world  and  with  men  ;  in  ego-mania,  on  the  contrary,  he  almost 
completely  withdraws  himself  from  them.  In  the  systematically 
elaborated  delirium  of  the  megalomaniac  and  persecution-maniac, 
the  '  not-I '  plays  the  most  prominent  part.  The  patient  accounts 
for  the  importance  his  '  Ego '  obtains  in  his  own  eyes  by  the 
invention  of  a  grand  social  position  universally  recognised,  or 
by  the  inexorable  hostility  of  powerful  persons,  or  groups  of 
persons.  He  is  Pope,  or  Emperor,  and  his  persecutors  are 
the  chief  men  in  the  State,  or  great  social  powers,  the  police, 
the  clergy,  etc.  His  delirium,  in  consequence,  takes  account  of 
the  State  and  society  ;  he  admits  their  importance,  and  attaches 
the  greatest  value,  in  one  case,  to  the  homage,  in  the  other  to  the 
enmity,  of  his  neighbours.  The  ego-maniac,  on  the  contrary,  does 
not  regard  it  as  necessary  to  dream  of  himself  as  occupying 
some  invented  social  position.  He  does  not  require  the  world 
or  its  appreciation  to  justify  in  his  own  eyes  himself  as  the 
sole  object  of  his  own  interest.  He  does  not  see  the  world 
at  all.  Other  people  simply  do  not  exist  for  him.  The  whole 
'non-Ego'  appears  in  his  consciousness  merely  as  a  vague  shadow 
or  a  thin  cloud.  The  idea  does  not  even  occur  to  him  that  he 
is  something  out  of  the  common,  that  he  is  superior  to  other 
people,  and  for  this  reason  either  admired  or  hated  ;  he  is  alone 
in  the  world  ;  more  than  that,  he  alone  is  the  world  and  every- 
thing else,  men,  animals,  things  are  unimportant  accessories, 
not  worth  thinking  about. 

The  less  diseased  are  the  conducting  media,  the  centres  of  nutri- 
tion, perception  and  volition,  so  much  the  weaker  naturally  will 
the  ego-mania  be,  and  so  much  the  more  harmlessly  will  it  be 
manifested.  Its  least  objectionable  expression  is  the  comic 
importance  which  the  ego-maniac  often  attributes  to  his  sensa- 
tions, inclinations  and  activities.  Is  he  a  painter?  he  has  no 
doubt  that  the  whole  history  of  the  universe  only  hinges  on 
painting,  and  on  his  pictures  in  particular.  Is  he  a  writer  of 
prose  or  verse  ?  he  is  convinced  that  humanity  has  no  other 
care,  or  at  least  no  more  serious  care,  than  for  verses  and  books. 
Let  it  not  be  objected  that  this  is  not  peculiar  to  ego-maniacs, 
but  is  the  case  with  the  vast  majority  of  mankind.  Assuredly 
everyone  thinks  what  he  is  doing  is  important,  and  that  man 
would  not  be  worth  much  who  performed  his  work  so  heed- 
lessly and  so  superficially,  with  so  little  pleasure  and  conscien- 
tiousness, that  he  himself  could  not  look  upon  it  with  respect. 
But  the  great  difference  between  the  rational  and  sane  man  and 
the  ego-maniac  is,  that  the  former  sees  clearly  how  subordinate 
his  occupation  is  to  the  rest  of  humanity,  although  it  fills  his 
life  and  exacts  his  best  powers,  while  the  latter  can  never 
imagine  that  any  exertion  to  which  he  devotes  his  time  and 
efforts  can  appear  to  others  as  unimportant  and  even  puerile. 


EGO-MANIA  259 

An  honest  cobbler,  resoleing  an  old  boot,  gives  himself  up  heart 
and  soul  to  his  work,  nevertheless  he  admits  that  there  are  far 
more  interesting  and  important  things  for  humanity  than  the 
repairing  of  damaged  sole-leather.  The  ego-maniac,  on  the 
contrary,  if  he  is  a  writer,  does  not  hesitate  to  declare,  like 
Mallarm6,  'The  world  was  made  to  lead  up  to  a  fine  book.'  This 
absurd  exaggeration  of  one's  own  occupations  and  interests  pro- 
duces in  literature  the  Parnassians  and  the  y^sthetes. 

If  degeneration  is  deeper,  and  ego  -  mania  is  stronger,  the 
latter  no  longer  assumes  the  comparativ^ely  innocent  form  of 
total  absorption  in  poetic  and  artistic  cooings,  but  manifests 
itself  as  an  immorality,  which  may  amount  to  moral  madness. 
The  tendency  to  commit  actions  injurious  to  himself  or  society  is 
aroused  now  and  then  even  in  a  sane  man  when  some  obnoxious 
desire  demands  gratification,  but  he  has  the  will  and  the  power 
to  suppress  it.  The  degenerate  ego-maniac  is  too  feeble  of 
will  to  control  his  impulsions,  and  cannot  determine  his  actions 
and  thoughts  by  a  regard  to  the  welfare  of  society,  because 
society  is  not  at  all  represented  in  his  consciousness.  He  is  a 
solitary,  and  is  insensible  to  the  moral  law  framed  for  life  in 
society,  and  not  for  the  isolated  individual.  It  is  evident  that 
for  Robinson  Crusoe  the  penal  code  did  not  exist.  Alone  on 
his  island,  having  only  Nature  to  deal  with,  it  is  obvious  he 
could  neither  kill,  steal,  nor  pillage  in  the  sense  of  the  penal 
code.  He  could  only  commit  misdemeanours  against  himself. 
Want  of  insight  and  of  self-control  are  the  only  immoralities 
possible  to  him.  The  ego-maniac  is  a  mental  Robinson  Crusoe, 
who  in  his  imagination  lives  alone  on  an  island,  and  is  at  the 
same  time  a  weak  creature,  powerless  to  govern  himself  The 
universal  moral  law  does  not  exist  for  him,  and  the  only  thing 
he  may  possibly  see  and  avow,  perhaps  also  regret  a  little,  is 
that  he  sins  against  the  moral  law  of  the  solitary,  i.e.,  against 
the  necessity  of  controlling  instincts  in  so  far  as  they  are 
injurious  to  himself. 

Morality — not  that  learnt  mechanically,  but  that  which  we 
feel  as  an  internal  necessity — has  become,  in  the  course  of 
thousands  of  generations,  an  organized  instinct.  For  this  reason, 
like  all  other  organized  instincts,  it  is  exposed  to  *  perversion,' 
to  aberration.  The  effect  of  this  is  that  an  organ,  or  the  whole 
organism,  works  in  opposition  to  its  normal  task  and  its  natural 
laws,  and  cannot  work  otherwise.*     In  perversion  of  taste  the 

*  Dr.  Paul  Moreau,  of  Tours,  describes  perversion  {^V aberration)  in  these 
somewhat  obscure  terms  :  '  Perversion  constitutes  a  deviation  from  the  laws 
which  rule  the  proper  sensibility  of  the  organs  and  faculties.  By  this  word 
we  mean  to  designate  those  cases  in  which  observation  testifies  to  an  un- 
natural, exceptional,  and  wholly  pathological  change,  a  change  carrying 
palpable  disturbance  into  the  regular  working  of  a  faculty.' — Des  Aberrations 
du  ^ens ghiesique.     4^  Edition.     Paris,  1887,  p.  I. 


26o  DEGENERATION 

patient  seeks  greedily  to  swallow  all  that  ordinarily  provokes 
the  deepest  repugnance,  i.e.,  is  instinctively  recognised  as  noxious, 
and  rejected  for  that  reason — decaying  organic  matter,  ordure, 
pus,  spittle,  etc.  In  perversion  of  smell  he  prefers  the  odours 
of  putrefaction  to  the  perfume  of  flowers.  In  perversion  of  the 
sexual  appetite  he  has  desires  which  are  directly  contrary  to 
the  purpose  of  the  instinct,  i.e.,  the  preservation  of  the  species. 
In  perversion  of  the  moral  sense  the  patient  is  attracted  by,  and 
feels  delight  in,  acts  which  fill  the  sane  man  with  disgust  and 
horror.  If  this  particular  perversion  is  added  to  ego-mania, 
we  have  before  us  not  merely  the  obtuse  indifference  towards 
crime  which  characterizes  moral  madness,  but  delight  in  crime. 
The  ego-maniac  of  this  kind  is  no  longer  merely  insensible  to 
good  and  evil,  and  incapable  of  discriminating  between  them, 
but  he  has  a  decided  predilection  for  evil,  esteems  it  in  others, 
does  it  himself  every  time  he  can  act  according  to  his  inclina- 
tion, and  finds  in  it  the  peculiar  beauty  that  the  sane  man  finds 
in  good. 

The  moral  derangement  of  an  ego-maniac,  with  or  without 
perverted  moral  instincts,  will  naturally  manifest  itriclf  in  ways 
varying  according  to  the  social  class  to  which  he  belongs,  as 
well  as  according  to  his  personal  idiosyncrasies.  If  he  is  a 
member  of  the  disinherited  class,  he  is  simply  either  a  fallen 
or  degraded  being,  whom  opportunity  has  made  a  thief,  who 
lives  in  horrible  promiscuity  with  his  sisters  or  daughters,  etc., 
or  is  a  criminal  from  habit  and  profession.  If  he  is  cultivated 
and  well-to-do,  or  in  a  commanding  position,  he  commits  mis- 
demeanours peculiar  to  the  upper  classes  which  have  as  their 
object  not  the  gratification  of  material  needs,  but  of  other  kinds 
of  craving.  He  becomes  a  Don  Juan  of  the  drawing-room,  and 
carries  shame  and  dishonour  without  hesitation  into  the  family  of 
his  best  friend.  He  is  a  legacy-hunter,  a  traitor  to  those  who 
trust  in  him,  an  intriguer,  a  sov/er  of  discord,  and  a  liar.  On  the 
throne  he  may  even  develop  into  a  rapacious  animal,  and  to  a 
universal  conqueror.  With  a  limited  tether  he  becomes  Charles 
the  Bad  the  Count  d'Evreux  and  King  of  Navarre,  Gilles  de 
Rais,  the  prototype  of  Blue  Beard,  or  Caesar  Borgia ;  and,  with 
a.  wider  range,  Napoleon  I.  If  his  nervous  system  is  not  strong 
enough  to  elaborate  imperious  impulsions,  or  if  his  muscles  are 
too  feeble  to  obey  such  impulsions,  all  these  criminal  inclinations 
remain  unsatisfied,  and  only  expend  themselves  by  way  of  his 
imagination.  The  perverted  ego-maniac  is  then  only  a  platonic 
or  theoretic  malefactor,  and  if  he  embraces  the  literary  career, 
he  will  concoct  philosophic  systems  to  justify  his  depravity,  or 
will  employ  an  accommodating  rhetoric  in  verse  and  prose  to 
celebrate  it,  bedizen  it  and  present  it  under  as  seductive  a  form 
as   possible.      We  then  find  ourselves  in  the  presence  of  the 


EGO-MANIA  261 

literary  phases  called  Diabolism  and  Decadentism.  '  Diaboliques ' 
and  '  decadents '  are  distinguished  from  ordinary  criminals  merely 
in  that  the  former  content  themselves  with  dreaming  and 
writing,  while  the  latter  have  the  resolution  and  strength  to  act. 
But  they  have  this  bond, in  common,  of  being  both  of  them 
'  antisocial  beings.'* 

A  second  characteristic  which  is  shared  by  all  ego-maniacs 
is  their  incapacity  to  adapt  themselves  to  the  conditions  in 
which  they  live,  whether  they  assert  their  anti-social  inclinations 
in  thought  or  action,  in  writings  or  as  criminals.  This  want  of 
adaptability  is  one  of  the  most  striking  peculiarities  of  the 
degenerate,  and  it  is  to  them  a  source  of  constant  suffering,  and 
finally  of  ruin.  It  is  a  necessary  result,  however,  of  the  consti- 
tution of  his  central  nervous  system.  The  indispensable  premise 
of  adaptation  is  the  having  an  exact  presentation  of  the  facts 
to  which  a  man  must  adapt  himself.f     I  cannot  avoid  the  ruts 

*  'The  vices  of  the  psycho-physical  organization  manifesting  themselves 
by  acts  prohibited,  not  only  by  morality — that  aggregate  of  necessary  rules 
elaborated  by  the  secular  experience  of  peoples — but  also  by  their  penal 
codes,  are  in  discord  with  life  in  society,  in  the  midst  of  which  humanity  can 
alone  make  progress.  ...  A  man,  from  his  birth  adapted  to  social  life,  can 
only  acquire  such  vices  as  a  consequence  of  certain  pernicious  conditions, 
through  which  his  psycho-physical  powers  are  set  in  opposition  to  the  neces- 
sary exigencies  of  social  life.' — Drill,  Les  Criminals  mineurs^  quoted  by 
Lombroso  in  Les  Applications  de  PAfithroi>ologie  criminelle.  Paris,  1892, 
p.  94.  See  also  G.  Tarde,  La  Philosophie  pe'na/e,  Lyon,  1890,  passim  :  '  The 
morally  deranged  are  not  true  lunatics.  A  Marquise  de  Brinvilliers,  a 
Troppmann,  a  being  born  without  either  compassion  or  sense  of  shame — 
can  it  be  said  of  such  an  one  that  he  is  not  himself  when  he  commits  his 
crime?  No.  He  is  only  too  much  himself.  But  his  existence,  his  person, 
are  hostile  to  society.  He  does  not  feel  the  same  sentiments  which  we 
civilized  people  regard  as  indispensable.  It  is  useless  to  think  of  curing 
him  or  of  reforming  him.' 

t  Darwinism  explains  adaptation  only  as  the  result  of  the  struggle  for 
existence,  and  of  selection  which  is  a  form  of  this  struggle.  In  one  indi- 
vidual a  quality  appears  accidentally,  which  makes  it  more  capable  of  pre- 
serving itself  and  of  conquering  its  enemies  than  those  individuals  not  born 
with  this  quality.  It  finds  more  favourable  conditions  of  existence,  leaves 
behind  it  more  numerousdescendantsinheritingthis  advantageous  quality,atid 
by  the  survival  of  the  fittest  and  the  disappearance  of  the  less  fit,  the  whole 
species  comes  into  the  possession  of  this  advantageous  quality.  I  do  not  at 
all  deny  that  an  accidental  individual  deviation  from  the  type  of  the  species, 
which  proves  an  advantage  in  the  struggle  for  existence,  can  be  a  source  of 
transformations  having  as  their  result  a  better  adaptation  of  the  species  to  given 
and  unmodifiable  circumstances.  But  I  do  not  believe  that  such  an  accident 
is  the  only  source,  or  even  the  most  frequent  source,  of  such  transformations. 
The  process  of  adaptation  appears  to  me  to  be  quite  otherwise,  viz.,  the  living 
being  experiences  in  some  situation  feelings  of  discomfort  from  which  he 
wishes  to  escape,  either  by  change  of  situation  (movement,  flight),  or  by 
trying  to  act  vigorously  on  the  causes  of  these  feelings  of  discomfort  (attack, 
modification  of  natural  conditions).  If  the  organs  possessed  by  the  living 
being,  and  the  aptitude  these  organs  have  acquired,  are  not  sufficient  to 
furnish  the  counteractions  felt  and  wished  for  as  necessary  to  those  feelings 


262  DEGENERATION 

in  the  road  if  I  do  not  see  them  ;  I  cannot  ward  off  the  blow  I 
do  not  see  coming  ;  it  is  impossible  to  thread  a  needle  if  its  eye 
is  not  seen  with  sufficient  clearness,  and  if  the  thread  is  not 
carried  with  steady  hand  to  the  right  spot.  All  this  is  so 
elementary  it  is  scarcely  necessary  to  say  it.  What  we  term 
power  over  Nature  is,  in  fact,  adaptation  to  Nature.  It  is  an 
inexact  expression  to  say  we  make  the  forces  of  Nature  subject 
to  us.  In  reality  we  observe  them,  we  learn  to  know  their 
peculiarities,  and  we  manage  so  that  the  tendencies  of  natural 
forces  and  our  own  desires  coincide.  We  construct  a  wheel  at 
the  point  where  the  water  power,  by  natural  law,  must  fall,  and 
we  have  then  the  advantage  that  the  wheel  turns  according  to 
our  needs.  We  know  that  electricity  flows  along  copper  wire, 
and  so,  with  cunning  submission  to  its  peculiar  ways,  we  lay 
down  copper  lines  to  the  place  where  we  want  it,  and  where  its 
action  would  be  useful  to  us.     Without  knowledge  of  Nature, 

of  discomfort,  the  weaker  creatures  submit  to  their  destiny,  and  suffer  or 
even  perish.  More  vigorous  individuals,  on  the  contrary,  make  violent  and 
continuous  efforts  in  order  to  attain  their  design,  of  flight,  defence,  attack, 
suppression  of  natural  obstacles  ;  they  give  strong  nervous  impulses  to  their 
organs  to  increase  to  the  highest  degree  their  functional  capacity,  and  these 
nervous  impulses  are  the  immediate  cause  of  transformations,  giving  to  the 
organs  new  qualities,  and  rendering  them  more  fit  to  make  the  living 
creature  thrive.  That  ihe  nervous  impulse  produces,  as  a  consequence,  an 
increase  in  the  flow  of  blood,  and  a  better  nutrition  for  the  organ  in  play,  is 
a  positive  biological  fact.  In  my  opinion,  then,  adaptation  is  most  frequently 
an  act  of  the  will,  and  not  the  result  of  qualities  accidentally  acquired.  It 
has  as  premise  the  clear  perception  and  representation  of  the  external 
causes  of  the  feelings  of  discomfort,  and  a  keen  desire  to  escape  from  them, 
or,  again,  that  of  procuring  feelings  of  pleasure,  i.e.^  an  inorganic  appetite. 
Its  mechanism  consists  in  the  elaboration  of  an  intense  representation  of 
serviceable  acts  of  certain  organs,  and  in  the  sending  of  adequate  impulses 
to  these  organs.  That  such  impulses  can  modify  the  anatomical  structure 
of  the  organs,  Kant  already  anticipated  when  he  wrote  his  treatise,  Vo7i  der 
Macht  des  Geniiithes;  and  modern  therapeutics  has  fully  confirmed  this, 
by  showing  that  the  stigmata  of  a  Louise  Lateau,  the  healing  of  tumours 
on  the  tomb  of  the  Deacon  Paris,  the  modifications  induced  by  sugges- 
tion on  the  skin  of  hysterical  subjects,  the  formation  of  birth-marks  by 
eventualities  and  emotions,  are  the  eftect  of  presentations  on  the  bodily 
tissues.  It  was  wrong  to  laugh  at  Lamarck  for  teaching  that  the  giraffe  has 
a  long  neck  because  it  has  continually  stretched  it  in  order  to  be  able  to 
feed  off  the  topmost  foliage  of  plants  with  tall  stems.  When  the  animal 
elaborates  the  clear  idea  that  he  ought  to  elongate  his  neck  as  much  as 
possible  in  order  to  reach  the  elevated  foliage,  this  presentation  will 
influence  in  the  strongest  manner  the  circulation  of  the  blood  in  all  the 
tissues  of  the  neck  ;  these  will  be  quite  differently  nourished  from  what  they 
would  be  without  this  presentation,  and  the  changes  desired  by  the  animal 
will  certainly  take  place  little  by  little,  if  his  general  organization  makes 
them  possible.  Knowledge  and  will  are  therefore  causes  of  adaptation — not 
the  will  in  the  mystical  sense  of  Schopenhauer,  but  the  will  that  is  the  dis- 
penser of  nervous  impulses.  This  summary  must  suffice  for  the  reader  ;  this 
is  not  the  place  to  develop  it  more,  and  to  demonstrate  in  detail  how  fertile 
these  ideas  are  for  the  theory  of  evolution. 


EGO-MANIA  263 

therefore,  no  adaptation,  and  without  adaptation  no  possibility  of 
profiting  by  its  forces.  Now,  the  degenerate  subject  cannot  adapt 
himself,  because  he  has  no  clear  idea  of  the  circumstances  to 
which  he  ought  to  adapt  himself,  and  he  does  not  obtain  from 
them  any  clear  idea,  because,  as  we  know,  he  has  bad  nerve- 
conductors,  obtuse  centres  of  perception,  and  feeble  attention. 

The  active  cause  of  all  adaptation,  as  of  all  effort  in  general — 
and  adaptation  is  nothing  else  than  an  effort  of  a  particular 
kind — is  the  wish  to  satisfy  some  organic  necessity,  or  to  escape 
from  some  discomfort.  In  other  words,  the  aim  of  adaptation 
is  to  give  feelings  of  pleasure,  and  to  diminish  or  suppress  the 
feelings  of  discomfort.  The  being  incapable  of  self-adaptation 
is  for  this  reason  far  less  able  to  procure  agreeable,  and  avoid 
disagreeable,  sensations  than  the  normal  being  ;  he  runs  up 
against  every  corner,  because  he  does  not  know  how  to  avoid 
them  ;  and  he  longs  in  vain  for  the  luscious  pear,  because  he 
does  not  know  how  to  catch  hold  of  the  branch  on  which  it 
hangs.  The  ego-maniac  is  a  type  of  such  a  being.  He  must, 
therefore,  necessarily  suffer  from  the  world  and  from  men. 
Hence  at  heart  he  is  bad-tempered,  and  turns  in  wrathful  dis- 
content against  Nature,  society  and  public  institutions,  irritated 
and  offended  by  them,  because  he  does  not  know  how  to 
accommodate  himself  to  them.  He  is  in  a  constant  state  of 
revolt  against  all  that  exists,  and  contrives  how  he  may  destroy 
it,  or,  at  least,  dreams  of  destruction  In  a  celebrated  passage 
Henri  Taine  indicates  'exaggerated  self-esteem'  and  'dogmatic 
argument'  as  the  roots  of  Jacobinism.*  This  leads  to  contempt 
for  and  rejection  of  institutions  already  established,  and  hence 

*  H,  Taine,  Les  Origines  de  la  France  contemporaitte :  La  Revoluiion, 
vol,  ii,, '  La  Conquete  jacobine,'  Paris,  i88i,pp.  11-12  :  '  Neither  exaggerated 
self-esteem  nor  dogmatic  argument  is  rare  in  the  human  species.  In  every 
country  these  two  roots  of  the  Jacobin  spirit  subsist  indestructible  beneath 
the  surface.  Everywhere  they  are  kept  in  check  by  established  society,  and 
everywhere  they  try  to  upheave  the  old  historical  structure  which  presses  on 
them  with  all  its  weight.  ...  At  twenty  years  old,  when  a  young  man  enters 
the  world,  his  reason  is  hurt  at  the  same  time  as  his  pride.  In  the  first 
place,  of  whatever  society  he  may  be  a  member,  it  is  a  scandal  to  pure 
reason,  for  it  has  not  been  constructed  on  a  simple  principle  by  a  philo- 
sophical legislator  ;  it  has  been  arranged  by  successive  generations  according 
to  their  muhiple  and  varying  needs.  ...  In  the  second  place,  however 
perfect  institutions,  laws,  and  manners  may  be,  since  they  have  preceded 
him  he  has  not  assented  to  them  at  all ;  others,  his  predecessors,  have 
chosen  for  him,  and  have  enclosed  him,  in  advance,  in  a  moral,  political,  and 
social  mould  which  pleased  them.  It  matters  little  if  it  displeases  him  ;  he 
is  forced  to  submit  to  it,  and,  like  a  harnessed  horse,  he  must  walk  between 
the  shafts  in  the  harness  put  on  him.  ...  It  is  not  surprising,  then,  if  he  is 
tempted  to  kick  against  the  framework  in  which,  nolens  volens,  he  is  enclosed, 
and  in  which  subordination  will  be  his  lot.  Thence  it  comes  that  the 
majority  of  young  men — above  all,  those  who  have  their  careers  to  make- 
are  more  or  less  Jacobins  on  leaving  college  ;  it  is  an  i/ifinnily  0/ growth* 


264  DEGENERATION 

not  invented  or  chosen  by  himself.  He  considers  the  social 
edifice  absurd  because  it  is  not  '  a  work  of  logic,'  but  of  history. 

Besides  these  two  roots  of  Jacobinism  which  Taine  has 
brought  to  hght,  there  is  yet  another,  and  the  most  important, 
that  has  escaped  his  attention,  viz.,  the  inabiUty  of  the  degener- 
ate to  adapt  himself  to  given  circumstances.  The  ego-maniac  is 
condemned  by  his  natural  organization  to  be  a  pessimist  and  a 
Jacobin.  But  the  revolutions  he  wishes  for,  preaches,  and  per- 
haps effectively  accomplishes,  are  barren  as  regards  progress. 
He  is,  as  a  revolutionary,  what  an  inundation  or  cyclone  would 
be  as  a  street-sweeper.  He  does  not  clear  the  ground  with 
conscious  aim,  but  blindly  destroys.  This  distinguishes  him 
from  the  clear-minded  innovator,  the  true  revolutionary,  who  is 
a  reformer,  leading  suffering  and  stagnating  humanity  from  time 
to  time  by  toilsome  paths  into  a  new  Canaan.  The  reformer 
hurls  down  with  pitiless  violence,  if  violence  is  necessary,  the 
ruins  which  have  become  obstacles,  in  order  to  make  way  for 
useful  constructions  ;  the  ego-maniac  raves  against  everything 
that  stands  upright,  whether  useful  or  useless,  and  does  not  think 
of  clearing  the  building-ground  after  the  devastation ;  his  pleasure 
consists  in  seeing  heaps  of  rubbish  overgrown  by  noxious  weeds 
where  once  walls  and  gables  reared  themselves. 

There  is  an  impassable  gulf  between  the  sane  revolutionary 
and  the  ego- maniac  Jacobin.  The  former  has  positive  ideals, 
the  latter  has  not.  The  former  knows  what  he  is  striving  for  ; 
the  latter  has  no  conception  how  that  which  irritates  him  could 
be  changed  for  the  better.  His  thoughts  do  not  reach  so  far  ; 
he  never  troubles  himself  to  question  what  will  replace  the 
things  destroyed.  He  knows  only  that  everything  frets  him, 
and  he  desires  to  vent  his  muddled  and  blustering  ill-humour 
on  all  around  him.  Hence  it  is  characteristic  that  the  foolish 
necessity  to  revolt  of  this  kind  of  revolutionary  frequently  turns 
against  imaginary  evils,  follows  puerile  aims,  or  even  fights 
against  those  laws  which  are  wise  and  beneficent.  Here  they 
form  a  *  league  against  lifting  the  hat  in  saluting  ';  there  they 
oppose  compulsory  vaccination  ;  another  time  they  rise  in  pro- 
test against  taking  the  census  of  the  population  ;  and  they  have 
the  ridiculous  audacity  to  conduct  these  silly  campaigns  with 
the  same  speeches  and  attitudes  that  the  true  revolutionaries 
assume — for  example,  in  the  service  of  suppression  of  slavery, 
or  liberty  of  thought. 

To  the  ego-maniac's  incapacity  for  adaptation  is  often  added 
the  mania  for  destruction,  or  clastomania,  which  is  so  frequently 
observed  among  idiots  and  imbeciles,  and  in  some  forms  of 
insanity.*     In  a  child  the  instinct  of  destruction  is  normal.     It 

*  Dr.  Paul  Sollier,  Psychologie  de  P Idiot  et  de  P Imbecile,  p.  109  et  seq.: 
There  exists  among  idiots  another  instinct  which  is  met  with,  nevertheless, 


EGO-MANIA  265 

is  the  first  manifestation  of  the  desire  to  exert  muscular 
strength.  Very  soon,  however,  the  desire  is  aroused  to  exert  its 
strength,  not  in  destroying,  but  in  creating.  Now,  the  act  of 
creating  has  a  psychic  premise,  viz.,  attention.  This  being 
absent  in  the  degenerate,  the  impulse  to  destroy,  which  can 
be  gratified  without  attention,  by  disorderly  and  casual  move- 
ments, does  not  rise  in  them  to  the  instinct  of  creation. 

Hence,  discontent  as  the  consequence  of  incapacity  of  adapta- 
tion, want  of  sympathy  with  his  fellow-creatures  arising  from 
weak  representative  capacity,  and  the  instinct  of  destruction,  as 
the  result  of  arrested  development  of  mind,  together  constitute 
the  anarchist,  who,  according  to  the  degree  of  his  impulsions, 
either  merely  writes  books  and  makes  speeches  at  popular 
meetings,  or  has  recourse  to  a  dynamite  bomb. 

Finally,  in  its  extreme  degree  of  development,  ego-mania 
leads  to  that  folly  of  Caligula  in  which  the  unbalanced  mind 
boasts  of  being  '  a  laughing  lion,'  believes  himself  above  all  re- 
straints of  morality  or  law,  and  wishes  the  whole  of  humanity 
had  one  single  head  that  he  might  cut  it  off. 

The  reader  who  has  hitherto  followed  me  will  now,  I  hope, 
quite  comprehend  the  psychology  of  ego-mania.  As  I  have 
stated  above,  consciousness  of  the  'Ego'  originates  from  the  sensa- 
tions of  the  vital  processes  in  all  parts  of  our  body,  and  the  con- 
ception of  the  '  non-Ego'  from  changes  in  our  organs  of  special 
sense.  How,  generally  speaking,  we  arrive  at  the  assumption  of 
the  existence  of  a  '  not-I,'  I  have  explained  above  in  detail, 
hence  it  is  unnecessary  to  repeat  it  here.  If  we  wish  to  leave 
the  firm  soil  of  positively  established  facts,  and  risk  ourselves  on 
the  somewhat  shaky  ground  of  probable  assumptions,  we  may 
say  that  consciousness  of  the  'Ego'  has  its  anatomical  basis  in  the 
sympathetic  system,  and  the  conception  of  the  '  not-I '  in  the 
cerebro-spinal  system.  In  a  healthy  man  the  perception  of 
vital  internal  facts  does  not  rise  above  the  level  of  consciousness. 
The  brain  receives  its  stimulations  far  more  from  the  sensory, 
than  from  the  sympathetic  nerves.  In  consciousness  the  pre- 
sentation of  the  external  world  greatly  outweighs  the  conscious- 
ness of  the  'Ego.'  In  the  degenerate,  either  (i)  vital  internal 
facts  are  morbidly  intensified,  or  proceed  abnormally,  and  are 
therefore  constantly  perceived  by  consciousness ;  or  (2)  the 
sensory  nerves  are  obtuse,  and  the  perceptional  centres  weak 

to  a  certain  degree  among  normal  children.  This  is  destructiveness,  which 
shows  itself  among  all  children  as  a  fi.st  manifestation  of  their  powers  of 
movement,  under  the  form  of  a  desire  to  strike,  break,  and  destroy.  .  .  . 
This  tendency  is  much  more  pronounced  among  idiots.  ...  It  is  not  the 
same  with  imbeciles.  Their  malicious  and  mischievous  spirit  drives  them 
to  destroy,  not  only  for  the  purpose  of  expending  their  strength,  but  with  the 
object  of  injuring.     It  is  an  unwholesome  gratification  which  they  seek.' 


266  DEGENERATION 

and  sluggish  ;  or  (3)  perhaps  these  two  deviations  from  the  norm 
co-exist.  The  result  in  all  three  cases  is  that  the  notion  of  the 
*  Ego '  is  far  more  strongly  represented  in  consciousness  than 
the  image  of  the  external  world.  The  ego-maniac,  conse- 
quently, neither  knows  nor  grasps  the  phenomenon  of  the 
universe.  The  effect  of  this  is  a  want  of  interest  and  sympathy, 
and  an  incapacity  to  adapt  himself  to  nature  and  humanity. 
The  absence  of  feeling,  and  the  incapacity  of  adaptation,  fre- 
quently accompanied  by  perversion  of  the  instincts  and  im- 
pulses, make  the  ego-maniac  an  anti-social  being.  He  is  a 
moral  lunatic,  a  criminal,  a  pessimist,  an  anarchist,  a  misan- 
thrope, and  he  is  all  these,  either  in  his  thoughts  and  his  feelings, 
or  also  in  his  actions.  The  struggle  against  the  anti-social 
ego-maniac,  his  expulsion  from  the  social  body,  are  necessary 
functions  of  the  latter  ;  and  if  it  is  not  capable  of  accomplishing 
it,  it  is  a  sign  of  waning  vital  power  or  serious  ailment.  Tolera- 
tion, and,  above  all,  admiration,  of  the  ego-maniac,  be  he  one  in 
theory  or  in  practice,  is,  so  to  speak,  a  proof  that  the  kidneys  of 
the  social  organism  do  not  accomplish  their  task,  that  society 
suffers  from  Bright's  disease. 

In  the  following  chapters  we  shall  study  the  forms  under 
which  ego-mania  manifests  itself  in  literature,  and  we  shall  find 
occasion  to  treat  in  detail  of  many  points  to  which  at  this  stage 
mere  allusion  has  been  sufficient. 


CHAPTER  II. 

PARNASSIANS  AND   DIABOLISTS. 

It  has  become  the  custom  to  designate  the  French  Parnassians 
a  school,  but  those  who  are  comprised  under  this  denomination 
have  always  refused  to  allow  themselves  to  be  included  under 
a  common  name.  'The  Parnassus?'  .  .  .  exclaimed  one  of  the 
most  undoubted  Parnassians,  M.  Catulle  Mendes*  *  We  have 
never  been  a  school !  .  .  .  The  Parnassus  !  We  have  not 
even  written  a  preface  !  .  .  .  The  Parnassus  originated  from  the 
necessity  of  reaction  against  the  looseness  of  poetry  issuing  from 
the  adherents  of  Murger,  Charles  Bataille,  Am^dee  Rolland, 
Jean  du  Boys  ;  then  it  became  a  league  of  minds,  who  sympa- 
thized in  matters  of  art.  .  .  .' 

The  name  '  Parnassiens  '  was,  in  fact,  applied  to  a  whole  series 
of  poets  and  writers  who  have  scarcely  a  point  in  common 
between  them.  They  are  united  by  a  purely  external  bond  ; 
their   works    have   been    brought   out   by   the    Parisian    editor 

♦  Jules  Huret,  Eiiquete  sur  ^Evolution  littcraire,  p.  288. 


EGO-MANIA  267 

Alphon.se  Lemerre,  who  was  able  to  make  Parnassians,  as  the 
editor  Cotta,  in  the  first  half  of  this  century,  made  German 
classics.  The  designation  itself  emanates  from  a  sort  of 
almanac  of  the  Muses,  which  Catulle  Mendes  published  in  i860 
under  the  title,  Le  Parnasse  conteinporain :  reciieil  de  vers 
nouveaux,  and  which  contains  contributions  from  almost  all  the 
poets  of  the  period. 

With  most  of  the  names  of  this  numerous  group  I  do  not 
need  to  concern  myself,  for  those  who  bear  them  are  not 
degenerate,  but  honest  average  men,  correctly  twittering  what 
others  have  first  sung  to  them.  They  have  exercised  no  sort 
of  direct  influence  on  contemporary  thought,  and  have  only 
indirectly  contributed  to  strengthen  the  action  of  a  few  leaders 
by  grouping  themselves  around  them  in  the  attitude  of  disciples, 
and  in  permitting  them  thus  to  present  themselves  with  an 
imposing  retinue,  which  always  makes  an  impression  on  vacuous 
minds. 

The  leaders  alone  are  of  importance  in  my  inquiries.  It  is 
of  them  we  think  when  we  speak  of  the  Parnassians,  and  it  is 
from  their  peculiarities  that  the  artistic  theory  attributed  to  Le 
Parnasse  has  been  derived.  Embodied  most  completely  in 
Theophile  Gautier,  it  can  be  summed  up  in  two  words :  per- 
fection of  form  and  hnpassibilite,  or  impassiveness. 

To  Gautier  and  his  disciples  the  form  is  everything  in  poetry ; 
the  substance  has  no  importance.  'A  poet,'  says  he,*  'say 
what  you  will,  is  a  labourer ;  he  ought  not  to  have  more  in- 
telligence than  a  labourer,  or  know  any  other  trade  than  his 
own,  otherwise  he  will  do  it  badly.  I  hold  the  mania  that 
there  is  for  putting  them  on  an  ideal  pedestal  is  perfectly  absurd  ; 
nothing  is  less  ideal  than  a  poet.  .  .  .  The  poet  is  a  keyboard 
\clavecm\  and  nothing  more.  Every  idea  in  passing  lays  its 
finger  on  a  key  ;  the  key  vibrates  and  gives  its  note,  that  is  all.' 
In  another  place  he  says :  '  For  the  poet,  words  have  in  them- 
selves, and  outside  the  sense  they  express,  a  beauty  and  value 
of  their  own,  like  precious  stones  as  yet  uncut,  and  set  in 
bracelets,  necklaces,  or  rings ;  they  charm  the  connoisseur  who 
looks  at  them,  and  sorts  them  with  his  finger  in  the  little 
bowl  where  they  are  stored.'-)*  Gustave  Flaubert,  another 
worshipper  of  words,  takes  entirely  this  view  of  the  subject 
when  he  exclaims  '.\  *  A  beautiful  verse  meaning  nothing,  is 
superior  to  a  verse  less  beautiful  meaning  something,'  By  the 
words  'beautiful'  and  'less  beautiful,' Flaubert  here  understands 

*  Thdophile  Gautier,  Les  Grotesques.     3'"9  Edition.     Paris,  1856. 

t  Les  Fleiirs  dii  Mai,  par  Charles  Baudelaire,  prdcdd^es  d'une  notice  par 
Theophile  Gautier.  ^  2^  Edition.     Paris,  1869,  p.  46. 

X  M.  Guyau,  '  L'Esthdiique  du  Vers  moderne,'  Revue  philosophiqiie^  vol. 
xvii.,  p.  270. 


268  DEGENERATION 

'  names  with  triumphant  syllables,  sounding  like  the  blast  of 
clarions,'  or  '  radiant  words,  words  of  light.'"^  Gautier  only 
credited  Racine,  for  whom  he,  a  romanticist,  naturally  had  a  pro- 
found contempt,  with  one  verse  of  any  value  : 

*  La  fille  de  Minos  et  de  Pasiphae.' 

The  most  instructive  application  of  this  theory  is  found  in  a 
piece  of  poetry  by  CatuUe  Mendes,  entitled  Recapitulation,  which 

begins  as  follows ; 

"  Rose,  Emmeline, 
Margueridette, 

Odette, 
Alix,  Aline. 

*  Paule,  Hippolyte, 
Lucy,  Lucile, 

C^cile, 
Daphne,  M^lite. 

'  Art^midore, 
Myrrha,  Myrrhine, 

Purine, 
Nais,  Eudore.' 

Eleven  stanzas  of  the  same  sort  follow,  which  I  will  dispense 
with  reproducing,  and  then  this  final  strophe  : 

*  Zulma,  Z^lie, 
Rdgine,  Reine, 

Ir^ne  !  .  .  . 
Et  j'en  oublie.'f 

*  And  I  forget  the  rest ' — this  is  the  only  one  of  the  sixty  lines 
of  the  piece  which  has  any  sense,  the  fifty-nine  others  being 
composed  of  women's  names  only. 

What  Catulle  Mendes  intends  here  is  clear  enough.  He 
wishes  to  show  the  state  of  a  libertine's  soul,  who  revels  in  the 
remembrance  of  all  the  women  he  has  loved,  or  with  whom  he 
has  flirted.  In  the  mind  of  the  reader  the  enumeration  of  their 
names  is  to  give  rise  to  voluptuous  images  of  a  troop  of  young 
girls,  ministrants  of  pleasure,  of  pictures  of  a  harem  or  of  the 
paradise  of  Mahomet.  But  apart  from  the  length  of  the  list, 
which  makes  the  piece  insupportably  wearisome  and  chilling, 
Mendes  does  not  attain  the  desired  effect  for  yet  a  second 
reason — because  his  artificiality  betrays  at  the  first  glance  the 
profound  insincerity  of  his  pretended  emotion.  When  before 
the  mind  of  a  gallant  the  figures  of  the  Phyllises  of  his  pastoral 
idylls  present  themselves,  and  he  really  feels  the  necessity 
of  tenderly  murmuring  their  names,  he  certainly  does  not 
think  of  arranging   these  names  as   a  play  on  words  (Alix — 

*  Th.  Gautier,  quoted  by  M.  Guyau,  loc.  cit.^  p.  270. 
f  Printed  in  LEcho  de  Paris^  No.  2,972,  July  8,  1892. 


EGO-MANIA  269 

Aline,  Lucy — Lucile,  Myrrha — Myrrhine,  etc.).  If  he  is  cold- 
blooded enough  to  give  himself  up  to  this  barren  desk-work,  he 
cannot  possibly  find  himself  in  the  lascivious  ecstasy  which  the 
piece  is  supposed  to  express  and  impart.  This  emotion,  immoral 
and  vulgar  in  its  boasting,  would  still  have  the  right,  like  every 
genuine  affection  of  the  soul,  of  being  lyrically  expressed.  But 
a  list  of  unmeaning  names,  artificially  combined,  and  arranged 
according  to  their  assonance,  implies  nothing.  According  to 
the  art  theory  of  the  Parnassians,  however,  Ricapitulation  is 
poetry — nay,  the  ideal  of  poetry — for  it  '  ne  signifie  rien,'  as 
Flaubert  requires,  and  is  vi^holly  composed  of  words  which, 
according  to  Th.  Gautier,  '  ont  en  eux-memes  une  beaut^  et  une 
valeur  propres.' 

Another  eminent  Parnassian,  Theodore  de  Banville,*  without 
pushing  to  its  extreme  limits,  with  the  intrepid  logic  of  Catulle 
Mendes,  the  theory  of  verbal  resonance  bare  of  all  meaning,  has 
professed  it  with  a  sincerity  to  which  homage  is  due.  *  I  charge 
you,'  he  exclaims  to  poets  in  embryo,  '  to  read  as  much  as 
possible,  dictionaries,  encyclopaedias,  technical  works  treating  of 
all  the  professions,  and  of  all  the  special  sciences,  catalogues  of 
libraries  and  of  auctions,  handbooks  of  museums — in  short,  all 
the  books  which  can  increase  your  stock  of  words,  and  give  you 
instruction  on  their  exact  sense,  proper  or  figurative.  Directly 
your  head  is  thus  furnished  you  will  be  already  well  prepared 
to  find  rhymes.'  The  only  essential  thing  in  poetry,  according 
to  Banville,  is  to  catch  rhymes.  To  compose  a  piece  of  poetry 
on  any  subject,  he  teaches  his  disciples  :  *  All  the  rhymes  on 
this  subject  must  first  of  all  be  known.  The  remainder,  the 
soldering,  that  which  the  poet  must  add  to  stop  up  the  holes 
with  the  hand  of  an  artist  and  workman — these  are  called  the 
plugs.  I  should  like  to  see  those  who  counsel  us  to  avoid  the 
plugs  bind  two  planks  together  with  the  help  of  thought.'  The 
poet — Banville  thus  sums  up  his  doctrine — has  no  ideas  in  his 
brain  ;  he  has  only  sounds,  rhymes,  and  play  on  words 
{calembours) .  This  play  on  words  inspires  his  ideas,  or  his 
simulacra  of  ideas. 

Guyau  rightly  uses  this  criticism  with  regard  to  the  aesthetic 
theory  of  the  Parnassians  established  by  Banville.f  '  The  search 
for  rhyme,  pushed  to  the  extreme,  tends  to  make  the  poet  lose 
the  habit  of  logically  connecting  his  ideas — that  is  to  say,  in 
reality  to  think — for  to  think,  as  Kant  has  said,  is  to  unite  and 
to  bind.  To  rhyme,  on  the  contrary,  is  to  place  in  juxtaposition 
words  necessarily  unconnected.  .  .  .  The  cult  of  rhyme  for 
rhyme's  sake  introduces  into  the  brain  itself  of  the  poet,  little 

*  Theodore  de  Banville,  Petit  Traiti  de  Pohie  fran^aise.     2^  Edition  revue. 
Paris,  18S0,  pp.  54,  64. 

f  M.  Guyau,  loc.  cit.,  pp.  264,  265. 


270  DEGENERATION 

by  little,  a  kind  of  disorder  and  permanent  chaos ;  all  the 
usual  laws  of  association,  all  the  logic  of  thought  is  destroyed 
in  order  to  be  replaced  by  the  chance  encounter  of  sounds.  .  . 
Periphrasis  and  metaphor  are  the  only  resources  for  good 
rhyming.  .  .  .  The  impossibility  in  seeking  for  rich  rhymes, 
of  remaining  simple,  involves  in  its  turn  a  consequent  risk  of 
a  certain  lack  of  sincerity.  Freshness  of  spontaneous  feeling 
will  disappear  in  the  too  consummate  artist  in  words  ;  he  will 
lose  that  respect  for  thought  as  such  which  ought  to  be  the  first 
quality  of  the  writer.' 

Where  Guyau  commits  an  error  is  when  he  says  that  the  cult 
of  rhyme  for  rhyme's  sake  '  introduces  into  the  brain  even  of  the 
poet  a  kind  of  disorder  and  permanent  chaos.'  The  proposition 
must  be  reversed.  'Permanent  chaos'  and  'disorder'  in  the 
brain  of  the  poet  are  there  already  ;  the  exaggeration  of  the 
importance  of  rhyme  is  only  a  consequence  of  this  state  of  mind. 
Here  we  have  again  to  deal  with  a  form  of  that  inaptitude  for 
attention,  well  known  to  us,  which  is  a  peculiarity  of  the  de- 
generate subject.  The  course  of  his  ideas  is  determined,  not  by  a 
central  idea  round  which  the  will  groups  all  other  ideas,  suppress- 
ing some  and  strengthening  others  with  the  help  of  attention  ;  but 
by  the  wholly  mechanical  association  of  ideas,  awakened  in  the 
case  of  the  Parnassians  by  a  similar  or  identical  verbal  sound. 
His  poetical  method  is  pure  echolalia. 

The  Parnassian  theory  of  the  importance  of  form,  notably  of 
rhyme,  for  poetry,  of  the  intrinsic  value  of  beauty  in  the  sound 
of  words,  of  the  sensuous  pleasure  to  be  derived  from  sonorous 
syllables  without  regard  to  their  sense,  and  of  the  uselessness, 
and  even  harmfulness,  of  thought  in  poetry,  has  become  de- 
cisive in  the  most  recent  development  of  French  poetry.*  The 
Symbolists,  whom  we  have  studied  in  an  earlier  chapter, 
hold  closely  to  this  theory.  These  poor  in  spirit,  who  only 
babble  *  sonorous  syllables '  without  sense,  are  the  direct  de- 
scendants of  the  Parnassians. 

The  Parnassian  theory  of  art  is  mere  imbecility.  But  the  ego- 
mania of  the  degenerate  minds  who  have  concocted  it  reveals 
itself  in  the  enormous  importance  they  attribute  to  their  hunt 
for  rhymes,  to  their  puerile  pursuit  of  words  which  are  '  toni- 
truants'  and  '  rayonnants.'  Catulle  Mend^s  ends  a  poem  {La 
seiile  Douceur),  where  he  describes  in  the  most  fulsome  manner 
a  series  of  the  pleasures  of  life,  with  this  envoi :  '  Prince,  I  lie. 

*  Compare  with  the  above  Tolstoi's  opinion  on  the  same  subject :  *He  is 
violently  hostile  to  all  rhymed  verse.  Rhythm  and  rhyme  chain  down 
thought,  and  all  that  is  opposed  to  the  most  complete  formation  possible  of 
the  idea  is  an  evil.  .  .  .  Tolstoi  .  .  .  regards  the  decline  in  our  esteem  for 
poetry  in  verse  as  a  progress.' — Raphael  Lowenfeld,  Gesprciche  iiber  unci  init 
Tolstoi.     Berlin,  1891,  p.  T]. 


EGO-MANIA  271 

Beneath  the  Twins  or  the  Urn  (?  Aquarius)  to  make  noble 
words  rhyme  together  in  one's  book,  this  is  the  sole  joy  of  life  '* 
He  who  is  not  of  this  opinion  is  simply  said  to  forfeit  his 
humanity.  Thus  it  is  that  Baudelaire  calls  Paris  '  a  Capernaum, 
a  Babel  peopled  by  the  imbecile  and  useless,  not  over- fastidious 
in  their  ways  of  killing  time,  and  wholly  inaccessible  to  literary 
pleasures.'-|-  To  treat  as  imbecile  those  who  look  upon  a  sense- 
less jumble  of  rhymes  and  a  litany  of  so-called  beautiful  proper 
names  as  of  no  value,  is  a  stupid  self-conceit  at  which  one 
might  well  laugh.  But  Baudelaire  goes  so  far  as  to  speak  of  the 
*  useless.'  No  one  has  a  right  to  live  who  is  inaccessible  to 
what  he  calls  *  literary  pleasures  ' — that  is,  an  idiotic  echolalia  ! 
Because  he  cultivates  the  art  of  playing  on  words  with  a  puerile 
seriousness,  everyone  must  place  the  same  importance  as  he 
does  on  his  infantile  amusements,  and  whoever  does  not  do  so 
is  not  simply  a  Philistine  or  an  inferior  being,  without  sus- 
ceptibility or  refinement — no,  he  is  a  '  useless  creature.'  If 
this  simpleton  had  the  power,  he  would  no  doubt  wish  to 
pursue  his  idea  to  the  end  and  sweep  the  '  useless  '  out  of  the 
ranks  of  the  living,  as  Nero  put  to  death  those  who  did  not 
applaud  his  acting  in  the  theatre.  Can  the  monstrous  ego- 
mania of  one  demented  be  more  audaciously  expressed  than  in 
this  remark  of  Baudelaire's  ? 

The  second  characteristic  of  the  Parnassians,  after  their  insane 
exaggeration  of  the  value  for  humanity  of  the  most  external 
form  for  poetry  and  rhyming,  is  their  *  impassibility,'  or  im- 
passivity. They  themselves,  of  course,  will  not  admit  that  this 
term  is  applicable  to  them.  '  Will  they  ever  have  done  with  this 
humbug !'  angrily  cried  Leconte  de  Lisle,  when  interrogated  on 
the  subject  of  '  impassibility,'  and  Catulle  Mendes  says,  '  Because 
Glatigny  has  written  a  poem  entitled  Impassible,  and  because  I 
myself  wrote  this  line,  the  avowed  pose  in  which  is  belied  in  the 
course  of  the  poem, 

'  '*  Pas  de  sanglots  humains  dans  le  chant  des  po&tes  !"J 

it  has  been  concluded  that  the  Parnassians  were  or  wished  to 
be  "  impassive."  Where  do  they  find  itj  where  do  they  see  it, 
this  icy  equanimity,  this  dryness  which  they  have  ascribed 
to  us  ?'§ 

Criticism,  in  sooth,  has   chosen  its  word   badly.     'Impassi- 

*  '  Prince,  je  mens.     Sous  les  G^meaux 
Ou  I'Amphore,  faire  en  son  livre 
Rimer  entre  eux  de  noble  mots, 
C'est  la  seule  douceur  de  vivre.' 

•f  Eugene  Cr^pet,  Les  Poetes  franqais,  vol.  iv.,  p.  536  :  study  by  Charles 
Baudelaire  of  Theodore  de  Banviile. 
t  '  No  human  sobs  in  the  p-  ets'  song  !' 
§  Jules  Huret,  op.  ciL,  pp.  283,  297. 


272  DEGENERATION 

bility'  in  art,  in  the  sense  of  complete  indifference  to  the  drama 
of  nature  and  of  h"fe,  there  cannot  be.  It  is  psychologically- 
impossible.  All  artistic  activity,  in  so  far  as  it  is  not  the  mere 
imitation  of  disciples,  but  flows  from  an  original  necessity,  is  a 
reaction  of  the  artist  upon  received  impressions.  Those  which 
leave  him  completely  indifferent  inspire  the  poet  with  no  verse, 
the  painter  with  no  picture,  the  musician  with  no  tone  com- 
position. Impressions  must  strike  him  in  some  way  or  other, 
they  must  awaken  in  him  some  emotion,  in  order  that  he  may 
have  the  idea  at  all  of  giving  them  an  objective  artistic  form. 
In  the  infinite  volume  of  phenomena  flowing  uniformly  past  his 
senses,  the  artist  has  distinguished  the  subject  he  treats  with  the 
peculiar  methods  of  his  art ;  he  has  exercised  a  selective  activity, 
and  has  given  the  preference  to  this  subject  over  others.  This 
preference  presupposes  sympathy  or  antipathy  ;  the  artist,  there- 
fore, must  have  felt  something  on  perceiving  his  subject.  The 
so'e  fact  that  an  author  has  written  a  poem  or  a  book  testifies 
that  the  subject  treated  of  has  inspired  him  with  curiosity, 
interest,  anger,  an  agreeable  or  disagreeable  emotion,  that  it  has 
compelled  his  mind  to  dwell  upon  it.  This  is,  therefore,  the 
contrary  of  indifference. 

The  Parnassians  are  not  impassive.  In  their  poems  there  is 
whimpering,  cursing  and  blasphemy,  and  the  utterance  of  joy, 
enthusiasm  and  sorrow.  But  what  tortures  them  or  enchants 
them  is  exclusively  their  own  states,  their  own  experiences. 
The  only  foundation  of  their  poetry  is  their  *  Ego.'  The  sorrow 
and  joy  of  other  men  do  not  exist  for  them.  Their  '  impassi- 
bilite'  is,  therefore,  not  impassivity,  but  rather  a  complete 
absence  of  sympathy.  The  '  tower  of  ivory '  in  which,  according 
to  the  expression  of  one  of  them,  the  poet  lives  and  proudly 
withdraws  himself  from  the  indifferent  mob,  is  a  pretty  name 
given  to  his  obtuseness  in  regard  to  the  being  and  doing  of  his 
fellow-creatures.  All  this  has  been  well  discerned  by  that 
beneficently  clear- minded  critic,  M.  Ferdinand  Brunetiere. 
'  One  of  the  worst  consequences,'  he  writes,  '  that  they  [the 
theories  of  the  Parnassians,  and,  in  particular,  those  of  Baude- 
laire] may  involve,  is,  by  isolating  art,  to  isolate  the  artist  as 
well,  making  him  an  idol  to  himself,  and  as  it  were  enclosing 
him  in  the  sanctuary  of  his  "  Ego."  Not  only,  then,  does  his  work 
become  a  question  merely  concerned  with  himself — of  his  griefs 
and  his  joys,  his  loves  and  his  dreams — but,  in  order  to  develop 
himself  in  the  direction  of  his  aptitudes,  there  is  no  longer  any- 
thing which  he  respects  or  spares,  there  is  nothing  he  will  not 
subordinate  to  himself;  which  is,  to  speak  by  the  way,  the  true 
definition  of  immorality.  To  make  one's  self  the  centre  of 
things,  from  a  philosophical  point  of  view,  is  as  puerile  an 
illusion  as  to  see  in  man  "the  king  of  creation,"  or  in  the  earth 


EGO-MANIA  273 

what  the  ancients  called  "  the  navel  of  the  world  "  ;  but,  from 
the  purely  human  point  of  view,  it  is  the  glorification  of  egoism, 
and,  consequently,  the  negation  itself  of  solidarity.'* 

Thus  Brunetiere  notices  the  ego-mania  of  the  Parnassians,  and 
affirms  their  anti-social  principles,  their  immorality;  he  believes, 
however,  that  they  have  freely  chosen  their  point  of  view.  This 
is  his  only  error.  They  are  not  ego-maniacs  by  free  choice,  but 
because  they  must  be,  and  cannot  be  otherwise.  Their  ego- 
mania is  not  a  philosophy  or  a  moral  doctrine ;  it  is  their 
malady. 

The  impassivity  of  the  Parnassians  is,  as  we  have  seen,  a 
callousness  with  regard,  not  to  everything,  but  only  to  their 
fellow-creatures,  united  to  the  tenderest  love  for  themselves. 
But  their  *  impassibility ', has  yet  another  aspect,  and  those  who 
have  found  the  term  have  probably  thought  above  all  of  this, 
without  having  given  themselves  a  complete  account  of  it.  The 
indifference  which  the  Parnassians  display,  and  of  which  they 
are  particularly  proud,  applies  less  to  the  joys  and  sufferings  of 
their  fellow-creatures  than  to  the  universally  recognised  moral 
law.  For  them  there  is  neither  virtue  nor  vice,  but  only  the 
beautiful  and  the  ugly,  the  rare  and  the  commonplace.  They 
took  their  point  of  view  '  beyond  good  and  evil,^  long  before 
the  moral  madness  of  Frederick  Nietzsche  found  this  formula. 
Baudelaire  justifies  it  in  the  following  terms:  *  Poetry  .  .  .  has 
no  other  aim  than  itself ;  it  cannot  have  any  other,  and  no 
poem  will  be  so  great,  so  noble,  so  truly  worthy  of  the  name  of 
poem,  as  that  which  will  have  been  written  only  for  the  pleasure 
of  writing  a  poem.  I  do  not  wish  to  say — be  it  well  understood 
— that  poetry  may  not  ennoble  morals,  that  its  final  result  may 
not  be  to  raise  man  above  vulgar  interests.  This  would  evi- 
dently be  an  absurdity.  I  say  that,  if  the  poet  has  pursued  a 
moral  aim  he  has  diminished  his  poetical  power,  and  it  is  not 
imprudent  to  wager  that  his  work  will  be  bad.  Poetry  cannot, 
under  pain  of  death  or  degradation,  assimilate  itself  to  science  or 
morals.  It  has  not  truth  for  its  object,  it  has  only  itself  And 
Th.  Gautier,  who  records  this  remark,  wholly  approves  of  it. 
'  On  the  high  summits  he  [the  poet]  is  at  peace  :  paceni  siLinma 
tenent'  he  says,-f-  in  employing  an  image  which  occurs  dozens  of 
times  in  Nietzsche. 

Let  us  nail  here  first  of  all  a  current  sophistical  artifice 
employed  by  Baudelaire.  The  question  to  which  he  wishes  to 
reply  is  this :  Is  poetry  to  be  moral  or  not .''  Suddenly  he 
smuggles   science,  with   which  it   has   nothing  to  do,  into  his 

*  F.  Brunetiere,  'La  Statue  de  Baudelaire,'  i?^Z'«^  des  deux  Mondes, 
September  i,  1892,  vol.  cxiii.,  p.  221. 

t  Les  Fleurs  du  Mai,  par  Charles  Baudelaire,  prdcdddes  d'une  notice  par 
Theophile  Gautier.     2e  edition.     Paris,  1869,  p.  22. 

18 


274  DEGENERATION 

demonstration,  names  it  in  the  same  breath  with  morality,  shows 
triumphantly  that  science  has  nothing  in  common  with  poetry, 
and  then  acts  as  though  he  had  demonstrated  the  same  thing 
on  the  subject  of  morality.  Now,  it  does  not  occur  to  any 
reasonable  man  of  the  present  day  to  demand  of  poetry  the 
teaching  of  scientific  truths,  and  for  generations  no  serious  poet 
has  thought  of  treating  of  astronomy  or  physics  in  a  didactic 
poem.  The  only  question  which  some  minds  would  wish  to 
consider  as  an  open  one  is  that  of  knowing  if  we  may,  or  may 
not,  exact  of  poetry  that  it  be  moral,  and  it  is  this  question  that 
Baudelaire  answers  by  an  unproven  affirmative,  and  by  a  crafty 
shuffling. 

I  have  no  wish  to  linger  here  on  this  question,  not  because  it 
embarrasses  me  and  I  should  like  to,  avoid  it,  but  because  it 
seems  to  me  more  in  place  to  discuss  it  when  considering  the 
disciples  of  the  '  Parnassus,'  the  '  Decadents,'  and  the  Esthetes, 
who  have  pushed  the  doctrine  to  its  extreme.  I  will  for  the 
present  leave  uncontradicted  the  assertion  of  the  Parnassians, 
that  poetry  has  not  to  trouble  itself  about  morality.  The  poet 
ought  to  stand  '  beyond  good  and  evil.'  But  that  could  only 
reasonably  signify  an  absolute  impartiality  ;  it  can  only  amount 
to  this — that  the  poet,  in  considering  some  action  or  aspect, 
simply  aspires  to  find  himself  confronted  by  a  drama,  which  he 
judges  only  for  its  beauty  or  ugliness,  without  even  asking  if  it 
is  moral  or  not.  A  poet  of  this  kind  must  necessarily  see,  then, 
as  many  beautiful  as  ugly  things,  as  many  moral  as  immoral. 
For,  taking  all  in  all,  moral  and  beautiful  things  in  humanity 
and  Nature  are  at  least  as  frequent  as  the  contrary,  and  must 
even  preponderate.  For  we  consider  as  ugly,  either  what  presents 
a  deviation  from  laws  which  are  familiar  to  us,  and  to  which 
we  have  adapted  ourselves,  or  that  in  which  we  recognise  the 
manifestation  of  anything  prejudicial  to  us ;  and  we  regard  as 
immoral  all  that  is  contrary  to  the  prosperity,  or  even  the 
maintenance,  of  society.  Now,  the  mere  fact  that  we  have 
looked  to  find  laws  is  a  proof  that  phenomena  corresponding  to 
recognised  laws,  and  consequently  agreeable  to  us,  must  be  far 
more  numerous  than  the  phenomena  in  contradiction  to  those 
laws,  and  therefore  repulsive ;  and  so,  too,  the  maintenance  of 
society  is  a  proof  that  conservative  and  favourable,  i.e.,  moral, 
forces  must  be  more  vigorous  than  destructive,  i.e.,  immoral, 
forces.  Hence,  in  a  poem  which  while  it  did  not  trouble  itself 
about  morals,  was  nevertheless  truly  impartial,  as  it  pretended 
to  be,  morality  would  be  represented  on  a  scale  at  least  as 
large  as,  and  even  somewhat  larger  than,  immorality.  But  in 
the  poetry  of  the  Parnassians  this  is  not  the  case.  It  delights 
almost    exclusively    in    depravity    and    ugliness.       Theophile 


EGO-MANIA  27S 

Gautier  extols,  in  Mademoiselle  de  Maupin,  the  basest  sensuality, 
which,  if  it  should  become  the  general  rule,  would  carry  humanity 
back  to  the  condition  of  savages  living  in  sexual  promiscuous- 
ness  without  individual  love,  and  without  any  family  institutions 
whatever;  Sainte-Beuve,  in  other  respects  more  romanticist 
than  Parnassian,  builds  in  his  novel  Voliipt^  an  altar  to  sexual 
pleasure,  at  which  the  ancient  Asiatic  adorers  of  Ashtaroth 
could,  without  hesitation,  have  performed  their  worship  ;  Catulle 
Mendes,  who  began  his  literary  career  by  being  condemned  for 
a  moral  outrage  (brought  upon  himself  by  his  play  Le  Roman 
dhine  Nuii)  exalts  in  his  later  works,  of  which  I  will  not  quote 
the  titles,  one  of  the  most  abominable  forms  of  unnatural 
license ;  Baudelaire  sings  of  carrion,  maladies,  criminals  and 
prostitutes  ;  in  short,  if  one  contemplates  the  world  in  the 
mirror  of  Parnassian  poetry,  the  impression  received  is  that  it 
is  composed  exclusively  of  vices,  crimes  and  corruption  without 
the  smallest  intermixture  of  healthy  emotions,  joyous  aspects 
of  Nature  and  human  beings  feeling  and  acting  honestly.  In 
perpetual  contradiction  to  himself,  as  becomes  a  truly  degenerate 
mind,  the  same  Baudelaire,  who  in  one  place  does  not  wish  poetry 
to  be  confounded  with  morality,  says  in  another  place  :  '  Modern 
art  has  an  essentially  devilish  \demoniagtie'\  tendency.  And  it 
seems  that  this  infernal  side  ot  his  nature,  which  man  takes  a 
pleasure  in  explaining  to  himself,  increases  daily,  as  if  the  devil 
amused  himself  by  magnifying  it  through  artificial  processes,  in 
imitation  of  the  poultry-farmers,  patiently  cramming  the  human 
species  in  his  hen-yards  to  prepare  for  himself  a  more  succulent 
nourishment.'* 

There  is  no  indifference  here  to  virtue  or  vice ;  it  is  an 
absolute  predilection  for  the  latter,  and  aversion  for  the  former. 
Parnassians  do  not  at  all  hold  themselves  '  beyond  good  or 
evil,'  but  plunge  themselves  up  to  the  neck  in  evil,  and  as  far 
as  possible  from  good.  Their  feigned  *  impartiality  '  with  regard 
to  the  drama  of  morality  or  immorality  is  in  reality  a  passionate 
partisanship  for  the  immoral  and  the  disgusting.  It  was  wrong, 
therefore,  to  think  of  characterizing  them  by  *  impassibility.' 
Just  as  they  lack  feeling  only  towards  their  fellow-creatures, 
and  not  towards  themselves,  so  they  are  only  cold  and  indifferent 
towards  good,  not  towards  evil ;  the  latter  attracts  them,  on  the 
contrary,  as  forcibly,  and  fills  them  as  much  with  feelings  of 
pleasure,  as  the  good  attracts  and  rejoices  the  sane  majority 
of  men. 

This  predilection  for  evil  has  been  discerned  by  many 
observers,  and  a  good  number  have  endeavoured  to  explain  it 

*  Baudelaire,  in  the  work  quoted  by  Eugene  Cr^pet,  Les  Poltes  fra?i(^ais^ 
vol.  iv.,  pp.  541,  542. 


276  DEGENERATION 

philosophically.  In  a  lecture  on  '  Evil  as  the  Object  of  Poetical 
Representation,'  Franz  Brentano  says  :* 

'  Since  what  is  presented  in  tragedy  appears  so  little  desirable 
and  cheerful,  it  suggests  the  idea  that  these  explanations  (of  the 
pleasure  we  find  in  it)  are  less  to  be  sought  in  the  excellence  of 
the  subject  than  in  some  peculiar  need  of  the  public,  which  finds 
a  response  alone  in  the  things  thus  exhibited.  .  .  .  Can  it  be 
that  man  feels,  from  time  to  time,  the  need  of  a  melancholy 
emotion,  and  longs  for  tragedy  as  for  something  which  satisfies 
this  need  in  the  most  efficacious  way,  assisting  him,  so  to  speak, 
to  weep  heartily  for  once  ?  .  .  .  If  for  a  long  time  no  passions, 
such  as  tragedies  excite,  have  had  sway  in  us,  the  power  to 
experience  them  demands  anew,  in  some  way,  to  manifest  itself, 
and  it  is  tragedy  which  comes  to  our  aid  ;  we  feel  the  emotions 
painfully,  it  is  true,  but  at  the  same  time  we  experience  a  bene- 
ficial alleviation  of  our  need.  I  think  I  have  observed  similar 
facts  a  hundred  times — less  in  myself  than  in  others,  in  those, 
for  example,  who  devour  with  avidity  the  newspaper  report  of 
the  "latest  murder.'" 

Professor  Brentano  here  confounds  first  of  all,  with  a  lament- 
able levity,  what  is  evil  and  what  is  saddening  —  two  wholly 
different  concepts.  The  death  of  a  beloved  being,  for  example, 
is  saddening,  but  there  is  nothing  evil  in  it, /.^.,  immoral,  unless, 
by  a  subtle  quibble,  it  is  proposed  to  interpret  as  an  immorality 
the  action  of  natural  forces  in  the  dissolution  of  the  individual. 
Further,  he  gives  as  an  explanation  what  is  only  a  perfectly 
superficial  paraphrase — Why  do  we  take  pleasure  in  evil  ?  Be- 
cause ...  we  have  evidently  in  us  a  tendency  to  take  pleasure 
in  evil !  Opium  facit  donnire  quia  est  in  eo  virtus  doj'initiva. 
M.  Fr.  Paulhan  has  treated  the  question  more  seriously,  but 
neither  do  we  get  very  far  with  him.  *  A  contemplative,  broad, 
inquisitive,  penetrating  mind,^  he  says,-f-  'with  profound  moral 
tendencies,  which  can  nevertheless  sink  into  oblivion  in  great  part 
during  scientific  research  or  aesthetic  contemplation  ;  sometimes 
also  with  a  slight  natural  perversion,  or  simply  a  marked  ten- 
dency towards  certain  pleasures,  whatever  they  may  be,  which 
are  not  an  evil  in  themselves,  and  may  even  be  a  good,  but  of 
which  the  abuse  is  an  evil — such  are  the  foundations  of  the 
sentiment  (love  of  evil)  which  is  occupying  us.  The  idea  of  evil, 
by  flattering  a  taste,  finds  a  solid  point  of  support ;  and  there  is 
one  reason  more  why  it  is  agreeable — in  that  it  satisfies,  ideally, 
an  inclination  which  reason  hinders  from  being  satisfied  really  to 
satiety.' 

*  Franz  Brentano,  Das  Schlechte  als  Gegensta7id  dichteriscJier  Darsiellung;. 
Vortrag  gehalten  in  der  Gesellschaft  der  Litteratur  freunde  zu  Wien.  Leipzig, 
1892,  p.  17. 

t  Yx.'?dM\\i2S\,  Le  nouveau  Mystias77ie.  Paris,  iSgijp  94.  See,  in  addi- 
tion, all  the  chapter  '  L'amour  du  mal,'  pp.  57-99- 


EGO-MANIA  277 

Here  again  is  this  sequence  of  ideas  revolving  in  a  circle,  like 
a  cat  at  play  biting  its  tail  :  we  have  a  taste  for  evil,  because  we 
find  a  taste  for  evil.  The  intellectual  ineptitude  which  M.  Paulhan 
here  reveals  is  so  much  the  more  surprising  in  that,  some  pages 
above,  he  came  very  near  the  true  solution  of  the  enigma. 
'  There  are  morbid  states,'  he  there  says, '  where  the  appetites  are 
depraved  ;  the  patient  eagerly  swallows  coal,  earth,  or  things  still 
worse.  There  are  others  in  which  the  will  is  vitiated,  and  the 
character  warped  in  some  point.  The  pathological  examples  are 
striking,  and  the  case  of  the  Marquis  de  Sade  is  one  of  the  most 
characteristic.  .  .  .  One  sometimes  finds  enjoyment  in  the  evils 
suffered  by  one's  self,  just  as  in  those  of  others.  The  sentiments 
of  voluptuousness,  sorrow  and  pity,  which  psychology  has 
studied,  appear  to  betray  sometimes  a  veritable  perversion,  and 
to  contain  as  elements  the  love  of  sorrow  for  sorrow  itself.  .  .  . 
Often  one  has  to  do  with  people  who  desire  their  own  weal 
primarily,  and  then  the  woe  of  others.  One  or  other  of  these 
psychical  states  is  visible  in  many  cases  of  wickedness  ;  for 
example,  in  the  fact  of  a  rich  manufacturer  falsely  accusing  a 
young  man,  who  is  going  to  marry,  of  being  affected  by  a 
venereal  disease,  and  maintaining  his  3.sse.vi\on  for  the  pleasure  of 
doing  so  .  .  .  or,  again,  of  a  young  villain  who  relishes  the  plea- 
sure of  theft  to  the  point  of  crying  :  "  Even  if  I  were  rich,  I 
should  always  like  to  steal."  Even  the  sight  of  physical  suffering 
is  not  always  disagreeable  ;  many  people  seek  it.  .  .  .  This  per- 
version is  probably  of  all  times  and  of  all  countries.  ...  It 
would  seem  that  into  the  mind  of  a  man  of  our  times  there 
might  enter  a  certain  enjoyment  in  upsetting  the  order  of 
nature,  which  does  not  appear  to  have  been  manifested  before 
with  a  similar  intensity.  It  is  one  of  the  thousand  forms  of 
recoiling  on  one's  self  which  characterizes  our  advanced  civiliza- 
tion.' Here  M.  Paulhan  touches  the  kernel  of  the  question, 
without  remarking  it  or  being  arrested  by  it.  The  love  of  evil 
is  not  a  universally  human  attribute;  it  is  an  'aberration  '  and  a 
'  perversion,'  and  '  one  of  the  thousand  forms  of  recoiling  on  one's 
self,'  otherwise  more  briefly  and  more  clearly  expressed  as  ego- 
mania. 

The  literature  of  penal  legislation  and  mental  therapeutics  has 
registered  hundreds  of  cases  of  aberration  in  which  the  patient 
has  felt  a  passionate  predilection  for  the  evil  and  horrible,  for 
sorrow  and  death.  I  should  like  to  quote  only  one  characteristic 
example  :  '  In  the  autumn  of  1884  there  died,  in  a  Swiss  prison, 
Marie  Jeanneret,  a  murderess.  After  having  received  a  good 
education  she  devoted  herself  to  the  care  of  the  sick,  not  for 
the  love  of  doing  good,  but  to  satisfy  a  mad  passion.  The 
sufferings,  groans  and  distorted  features  of  the  sick  filled  her 
with  secret  voluptuousness.     She  implored  the  doctors,  on  her 


278  DEGENERATION 

knees  and  with  tears,  to  allow  her  to  assist  in  dangerous  opera- 
tions, in  order  to  be  able  to  gratify  her  cravings.  The  death- 
agony  of  a  human  being  afforded  her  the  height  of  enjoyment. 
Under  the  pretext  of  a  disease  of  the  eyes,  she  had  consulted 
several  oculists,  and  had  obtained  from  them  belladonna  and 
other  poisons.  Her  first  victim,  a  woman,  was  her  friend  ;  others 
followed ;  the  doctors,  to  whom  she  had  recommended  herself 
as  nurse,  having  no  suspicions,  the  less  so  because  she  fre- 
quently changed  her  residence.  An  attempt  failing  in  Vienna 
led  to  discovery  ;  she  had  poisoned  not  less  than  nine  persons, 
but  felt  neither  repentance  nor  shame.  In  prison  her  most 
ardent  wish  was  to  fall  dangerously  ill,  in  order  to  satiate  herself 
in  the  looking-glass  with  the  contortions  of  her  own  features.'* 

Thus  we  recognise,  in  the  light  of  clinical  observation,  the  true 
nature  of  the  Parnassians.  Their  impassivity,  in  so  far  as  it  is 
mere  indifference  to  the  sufferings  of  others,  and  to  virtue  and 
vice,  proceeds  from  their  ego-mania,  and  is  a  consequence  of 
their  obtuseness,  which  makes  it  impossible  for  them  to  receive 
a  sufficiently  keen  presentation  of  the  external  world,  hence  also 
of  sorrow,  vice,  or  ugliness,  so  as  to  be  able  to  respond  by  normal 
reactions,  by  aversion,  indignation,  or  pity.  But  in  cases  where 
impassivity  constitutes  a  declared  predilection  for  what  is  evil 
and  disgusting,  we  can  see  the  same  aberration  which  makes  of 
the  imbecile  a  cruel  torturer  of  animals.-f*  and  of  Marie  Jean- 
neret,  cited  above,  a  tenfold  poisoner.  The  whole  difference 
consists  in  the  degree  of  impulsion.  If  it  is  strong  enough,  its 
consequences  are  heartless  acts  and  crimes.  If  it  is  elaborated 
by  diseased  centres  with  insufficient  force,  it  can  be  satisfied  by 
imagination  alone,  by  poetic  or  artistic  activity. 

Of  course  there  have  been  attempts  made  to  defend  aberra- 
tion as  something  justified  and  voluntary,  and  even  to  erect  it 

*  Oswald  Zimmermann,  Die  Wonne  des  Leids.  Beitrdge  zur  Erkenntniss 
des  metischlichen  Empfittdens  in  Kunst  ttnd  Leben.  2te  umgearbeitete  Auflage. 
Leipzig,  1885,  p.  III.  This  book  is  without  value  in  point  of  ideas,  for  it 
reproduces,  in  language  deliberately  inflated,  and  visibly  aspiring  to  'depth,' 
the  most  imbecile  drivel  of  the  trio,  Edward  von  Hartmann,  Nietzsche  and 
Gustave  Jager.  But  the  author,  who  is  well  read,  has  carefully  compiled 
some  useful  materials  in  certain  chapters,  particularly  in  that  entitled, 
'Association  of  Voluptuousness  and  Cruelty'  (p,  107  et  seq.).  (The  case  of 
Jeanneret,  first  published  byChatelain  in  x}c\&  Ani^ales  rnedico-psychologiques, 
has  also  been  quoted  by  Krafft-Ebing,  Lehrbtich  der  gerichtlichen  Psycho- 
pathologie.     3te  Auflage.     Stuttgart,  1892,  p.  248. 

t  SoUier,  op.  cit.,  p.  123:  'The  imbecile  is  refined  in  his  persecutions, 
and  that  knowingly.  He  loves  to  see  suffering.  He  skins  a  bird  alive, 
laughs  on  hearing  its  cries  and  seeing  its  struggles.  He  tears  off  the  feet 
of  a  frog,  looks  at  its  suffering  for  a  moment,  then  abruptly  crushes  it,  or 
kills  it  in  some  other  way,  as  one  of  the  imbeciles  at  Bicetre  does.  .  .  .  The 
imbecile  is  as  cruel  to  his  fellow-creature  as  to  animals,  and  that  even  in 
his  jesting.  Thus  he  will  laugh  maliciously  and  mock  at  a  comrade  who  has 
become  crippled.' 


EGO-MANIA  279 

into  an  intellectual  distinction.  Thus  it  is  that  M.  Paul  Bourget* 
puts  into  the  mouth  of  the  '  Decadents,'  with  little  artifices  of 
style  which  do  not  permit  a  moment's  doubt  that  he  is  expressing 
his  own  opinion,  the  following  argument :  *  We  delight  in  what 
you  call  our  corruptions -of  style,  and  we  delight  at  the  same 
time  the  refined  people  of  our  race  and  our  time.  It  remains  to 
be  seen  whether  our  exception  is  not  an  aristocracy,  and 
whether,  in  the  aesthetic  order,  the  majority  of  suffrages  repre- 
sents anything  else  than  the  majority  of  ignorances.  ...  It  is  a 
self-deception  not  to  have  the  courage  of  one's  intellectual  plea- 
sure. Let  us  delight,  therefore,  in  our  singularities  of  ideal  and 
of  form,  even  if  we  must  shut  ourselves  up  in  a  solitude  without 
visitors.' 

It  seems  scarcely  necessary  to  show  that  by  these  arguments, 
in  which  M.  Bourget  anticipates  the  whole  delirious  '  philosophy ' 
of  Nietzsche,  every  crime  can  be  glorified  as  an  'aristocratic' 
action.  The  assassin  has  'the  courage  of  his  intellectual  plea- 
sure,' the  majority  which  does  not  approve  of  him  is  a  majority 
of  the  *  ignorant,'  he  delights  in  the  '  singularity  '  of  his  'ideal,' 
and  for  this  reason  must  at  the  most  allow  himself  to  be  shut  up 
in  *  a  solitude  without  visitors,'  i.e.,  to  speak  plainly,  in  a 
reformatory,  if  *  the  majority  of  ignorances  '  does  not  have  him 
hanged  or  guillotined.  Has  not  the  '  Decadent '  Maurice  Barres 
defended  and  justified  Chambige,  a  specimen  of  the  murderer 
for  love  of  murder,  with  Bourget's  theory  } 

This  same  repulsive  theorist  of  the  most  abandoned  anti- 
social ego-mania  denies  also  that  one  can  speak  of  a  mind  as 
diseased  or  healthy.  'There  is,'  he  says.t  'from  the  meta- 
physical observer's  point  of  view,  neither  disease  nor  health  of 
the  soul ;  there  are  only  psychological  states,  for  he  perceives  in 
our  sufferings  and  in  our  faculties,  in  our  virtues  and  in  our 
vices,  in  our  volitions  and  in  our  renunciations,  only  changing 
combinations,  inevitable,  and  therefore  normal,  subject  to  the 
known  laws  of  the  association  of  ideas.  Only  prejudice,  in 
which  the  ancient  doctrine  of  final  causes  and  the  belief  in  the 
definite  aim  of  the  universe  reappear,  can  make  us  consider  the 
loves  of  Daphnis  and  Chloe  in  the  valley  as  natural  and  healthy, 
and  the  loves  of  a  Baudelaire  as  artificial  and  unwholesome.' 

To  bring  this  silly  sophistry  down  to  its  just  value,  common- 
sense  has  only  to  recollect  the  existence  of  lunatic  asylums.  But 
common-sense  has  not  the  right  of  suffrage  among  the  rhetori- 
cians of  M.  Paul  Bourget's  stamp.  We  reply  to  him,  then,  with 
a  seriousness  he  does  not  merit,  that  in  fact  every  vital  mani- 
festation, those   of  the  brain    as   of   any  other   organ,  is   the 

*  Paul  Bourget,  Essais  de  Psychologic  contemporaine.     Paris,  1883,  p.  28. 
t  Ibid.t  pp.  12,  13. 


28o  DEGENERATION 

necessary  and  only  possible  effect  of  the  causes  which  occasion 
them,  but  that,  according  to  the  state  of  the  organ  and  of  its 
elementary  parts,  its  activity,  necessary  and  natural  as  such,  can 
be  useful  or  hurtful  to  the  whole  organism.  Whether  the  world 
has  a  purpose  is  a  question  that  can  altogether  be  left  inde- 
cisive, but  the  activity  of  each  part  of  the  organism  has  never- 
theless, if  not  the  aim,  at  least  unquestionably  the  effect,  of 
preserving  the  whole  organism ;  if  it  does  not  produce  this 
effect,  and  if,  on  the  contrary,  it  thwarts  it,  it  is  injurious  to  the 
whole  organism,  and  for  such  an  injurious  activity  of  any  par- 
ticular organ  language  has  coined  the  word  'disease.'  The 
sophist  who  denies  that  there  may  be  disease  and  health  must 
also  logically  deny  that  there  may  be  life  and  death,  or,  at 
least,  that  death  may  have  some  sort  of  importance.  For,  as  a 
matter  of  fact,  given  a  certain  activity  of  its  parts  which  we  call 
morbid,  the  organism  perishes,  while  with  an  activity  of  another 
nature,  which  we  qualify  as  healthy,  it  lives  and  thrives.  As 
long,  then,  as  Bourget  does  not  lay  down  the  dogma  that  pain 
is  as  agreeable  as  pleasure,  decrepitude  as  satisfactory  as  vigour, 
and  death  as  desirable  as  life,  he  proves  that  he  does  not  know, 
or  dares  not  draw  from  his  premise,  the  just  conclusion  which 
would  immediately  make  the  absurdity  of  it  apparent. 

The  whole  theory  which  must  explain  and  justify  the  predi- 
lection for  evil  has,  besides,  been  invented  as  an  after-thought. 
The  inclination  for  what  is  evil  and  disgusting  existed  first,  and 
was  not  a  consequence  of  philosophical  considerations  and  self- 
persuasion.  We  have  here  merely  another  case  of  that  method 
of  our  consciousness,  so  often  attested  in  the  course  of  these 
inquiries,  which  consists  of  inventing  rational  causes  for  the 
instincts  and  acts  of  the  unconscious. 

In  the  predilection  of  the  Parnassians  for  the  immoral,  criminal 
and  ugly,  we  have  to  deal  merely  with  an  organic  aberration,  and 
with  nothing  else.  To  pretend  that  inclinations  of  this  kind 
exist  in  all  men,  even  in  the  best  and  sanest,  and  are  merely 
stifled  by  him,  while  the  Parnassians  give  the  rein  to  theirs,  is  an 
arbitrary  and  unproved  assertion.  Observation  and  the  whole 
march  of  the  historical  development  of  humanity  contradict  it. 

There  may  be  repulsion  and  attraction  in  nature — no  one 
denies  it.  A  glance  at  the  magnetic  poles,  at  the  positive  and 
negative  electrodes,  suffices  to  establish  this  fact.  We  find  this 
phenomenon  again  among  the  lowest  forms  of  life.  Certain 
materials  attract,  others  repel  them.  There  is  no  question  here 
of  an  inclination  or  an  expression  of  the  will.  We  must 
rather  consider  the  process  as  purely  mechanical,  having  its 
reason  probably  in  molecular  relations  which  are  still  unknown 
to  us.  Microbiology  gives  to  the  attitude  of  micro-organisms 
towards  attractive  and  repulsive  matter  the  name  of  'chemo- 


EGO-MANIA  28i 

taxis  '  or  chimiotaxia,  invented  by  Pfefifer.*  In  higher  organisms 
the  conditions  are  naturally  not  so  simple.  Among  them  also, 
it  is  true,  the  ultimate  cause  of  inclinations  and  aversions  is 
certainly  chimiotactic,  but  the  effect  of  chimiotaxia  must  neces- 
sarily manifest  itself  under  another  form.  A  simple  cell  such 
as  a  bacillus,  for  example,  is  repelled  directly  when  it  penetrates 
into  the  radius  of  a  chimic  body  which  repels  it.  But  the  cell 
constituting  a  portion  of  a  higher  organism  has  not  this  liberty 
of  movement.  It  cannot  change  its  place  independently.  If  it 
is  now  chimiotactically  repelled,  it  cannot  escape  from  the  per- 
nicious action,  but  must  remain  exposed  to  it,  and  submit  to  the 
disturbances  in  its  vital  activity.  If  these  are  sufficiently  serious 
to  injure  the  functions  of  the  whole  organism,  the  latter  obtains 
knowledge  of  it,  endeavours  to  perceive  their  cause,  discovers  it 
also,  as  a  general  rule,  and  does  for  the  suffering  cell  what  the 
latter  cannot  do  alone,  namely,  shields  it  from  the  repelling 
action.  The  organism  necessarily  acquires  experience  in  its 
defence  against  pernicious  influences.  It  learns  to  know  the 
circumstances  in  which  they  appear,  and  no  longer  permits 
matters  to  reach  the  stage  of  the  really  chimiotactic  effect,  but 
for  the  most  part  evades  disturbing  matters  before  they  can 
exert  a  really  direct  repulsion.  The  knowledge  acquired  by  the 
individual  becomes  hereditary,  transforms  itself  into  an  organized 
faculty  of  the  species,  and  the  organism  feels  subjectively,  as  a 
discomfort  which  may  amount  to  pain,  the  warning  that  a  per- 
nicious influence  is  acting  upon  it,  and  that  it  has  to  avoid  it. 
To  escape  from  pain  becomes  one  principal  function  of  the 
organism,  which  it  cannot  insufficiently  provide  against  or 
neglect  without  expiating  that  negligence  by  its  ruin. 

In  the  human  being  processes  take  place  not  otherwise  than 
as  they  have  been  here  described.  The  hereditary  organized 
experience  of  the  species  warns  him  of  the  noxiousness  of 
influences  to  which  he  is  frequently  exposed.  His  outposts 
against  naturally  hostile  forces  are  his  senses.  Taste  and  smell 
give  him,  as  to  repulsive  chimiotactic  matter,  the  impressions  of 
nausea  and  of  stench  ;  the  different  kinds  of  skin-sensations 
make  him  aware,  through  sensations  of  pain,  heat,  or  cold,  that 
a  given  contact  is  unfavourable  to  him  ;  eye  and  ear  place  him 
on  his  guard,  by  loud,  shrill,  discordant  sensations,  against  the 
mechanical  effects  of  certain  physical  phenomena.  Finally,  the 
higher  cerebral  centres  respond  to  recognised  noxious  influences 
of  a  composite  nature,  or  to  the  representation  of  them  by  an 
equally  composite  reaction  of  aversion  in  different  degrees  of 
intensity,  from  simple  discomfort  to  horror,  indignation,  dismay, 
or  fury. 

The  vehicle  of  this  hereditary,  organized,  racial  experience 
*  Verworn  employs  the  word  *  chemotropism.' 


282  DEGENERATION 

is  the  unconscious  life  ;  to  it  is  confided  defence  against  simple, 
frequently  recurring  noxious  influences.  Nausea  at  intolerable 
tastes,  repugnance  to  insufferable  smells,  the  fear  of  dangerous 
animals,  natural  phenomena,  etc.,  have  become  for  it  an  instinct 
to  which  the  organism  abandons  itself  without  reflection — i.e., 
without  the  intervention  of  consciousness.  But  the  human 
organism  learns  to  distinguish  and  avoid  not  only  all  that  is 
directly  prejudicial  to  itself;  it  acts  in  the  same  way  with  regard 
to  that  which  menaces  it  not  as  an  individual,  but  as  a  racial 
being,  as  a  member  of  an  organized  society ;  antipathy  to 
influences  injurious  to  the  maintenance  or  prosperity  of  the 
society  becomes  in  him  an  instinct.  But  this  enriching  of 
organized  unconscious  cognition  represents  a  higher  degree  of 
development  than  many  human  beings  attain  to.  The  social 
instincts  are  those  that  a  man  acquires  last  of  all,  and,  in  con- 
formity to  a  known  law,  he  loses  them  first  when  he  retrogrades 
in  his  organic  development. 

Consciousness  has  occasion  to  declare  the  dangerous  nature 
of  phenomena,  and  to  defend  the  organism  against  it,  only  if 
these  phenomena  are  either  quite  new,  or  very  rare,  so  that  they 
cannot  be  hereditarily  recognised  and  dreaded;  or  if  they  enclose 
in  themselves  many  different  elements,  and  do  not  act  directly, 
but  only  by  their  more  or  less  remote  consequences,  so  that  to 
know  them  exacts  a  complex  activity  of  representation  and 
judgment. 

Thus  aversion  is  always  the  instinctive,  or  conscious  cognition 
of  a  noxious  influence.  Pleasure,  its  opposite,  is  not  merely, 
as  has  been  sometimes  maintained,  the  absence  of  discomfort — 
i.e.,  a  negative  state — but  something  positive.  Every  part  of  the 
organism  has  definite  needs  which  assert  themselves  as  a  con- 
scious or  unconscious  tendency,  as  an  inclination  or  appetite;  the 
satisfaction  of  these  needs  is  felt  as  a  pleasure  which  can  rise  to  a 
feeling  of  bliss.  The  first  need  of  each  organ  is  to  manifest  itself 
in  activity.  Its  simple  activity  is  a  source  of  pleasure  to  it,  so  long 
as  it  does  not  go  beyond  its  powers.  The  activity  of  the  cerebral 
centres  consists  in  receiving  impressions,  and  in  transforming 
them  into  representations  and  movements.  This  activity  pro- 
duces in  them  feelings  of  pleasure  ;  they  have  in  consequence  a 
strong  desire  to  receive  impressions  so  as  to  be  put  into  activity 
by  them,  and  experience  feelings  of  pleasure. 

This,  broadly  sketched,  is  the  natural  history  of  the  feelings  of 
pleasure  and  pain.  The  reader  who  has  mastered  it  will  ex- 
perience no  difficulty  in  comprehending  the  nature  of  aberration. 

Unconscious  life  is  subject  to  the  same  biological  laws  as  con- 
scious life.  The  vehicle  of  the  unconscious  is  the  same  nervous 
tissue — although,  it  may  be,  another  portion  of  the  system — in 
which  consciousness  is  also  elaborated,     The  unconscious  is  just 


EGO-MANIA  183 

as  little  infallible  as  consciousness.  It  can  be  more  highly 
developed  or  retarded  in  its  development ;  it  can  be  more  or  less 
stupid  or  intelligent.  If  the  unconscious  is  incompletely 
developed,  it  distinguishes  badly  and  judges  falsely,  it  deceives 
itself  in  the  knowledge  of  ,what  is  prejudicial  or  favourable  to  it, 
and  instinct  becomes  unreliable  or  obtuse.  Then  we  get  the 
phenomenon  of  indifference  to  what  is  ugly,  loathsome,  im- 
moral. 

We  know  that  among  the  degenerate  divers  arrested  develop- 
ments and  malformations  appear.  Particular  organs  or  entire 
systems  of  organs  are  arrested  at  a  degree  of  development  which 
corresponds  to  infancy,  or  even  to  the  foetal  life.  If  the  highest 
cerebral  centres  of  the  degenerate  stop  in  their  development 
at  a  very  low  stage,  they  become  imbeciles  or  idiots.  If  the 
arrest  of  development  strikes  the  nervous  centres  of  unconscious 
life,  the  degenerate  lose  the  instincts  which,  in  normal  beings, 
find  expression  in  nausea  and  disgust  at  certain  noxious  influ- 
ences ;  I  might  say,  their  unconscious  life  suffers  from  imbecility 
or  idiocy. 

Again,  we  have  seen  in  the  preceding  chapter  that  the  impres- 
sionability of  the  nerves  and  brain  in  the  degenerate  subject  is 
blunted.  Hence  he  only  perceives  strong  impressions,  and  it  is 
only  these  which  excite  his  cerebral  centres  to  that  intellectual 
and  motor  activity  which  produces  in  them  feelings  of  pleasure. 
Now,  disagreeable  impressions  are  naturally  stronger  than  agree- 
able or  indifferent  impressions,  for  if  they  were  not  stronger  we 
should  not  feel  them  as  painful,  and  they  would  not  induce  the 
organism  to  make  efforts  to  defend  itself  To  procure,  then,  the 
feelings  of  pleasure  which  are  linked  with  the  activity  of  the 
cerebral  centres,  to  satisfy  the  need  of  functioning  which  is 
peculiar  to  the  cerebral  centres  as  to  all  the  other  organs,  the 
degenerate  person  seeks  impressions  which  are  strong  enough  to 
excite  to  activity  his  obtuse  and  inert  centres.  But  such  im- 
pressions are  precisely  those  which  the  healthy  man  feels  as 
painful  or  repugnant.  Thus,  the  aberrations  or  perversions  of 
the  degenerate  find  explanation.  They  have  a  longing  for 
strong  impressions,  because  these  only  can  put  their  brains  into 
activity,  and  this  desired  effect  on  their  centres  is  only  exercised 
by  impressions  that  sane  beings  dread  because  of  their  violence, 
i.e.,  painful,  repugnant  and  revolting  impressions. 

To  say  that  every  human  being  has  secretly  a  certain  predi- 
lection for  the  evil  and  the  abominable  is  absurd  :  the  only  little 
spark  of  truth  contained  in  this  foolish  assertion  is,  that  even  the 
normal  human  being  becomes  obtuse  when  fatigued,  or  exhausted 
by  illness ;  i.e.,  he  falls  into  the  state  which,  in  the  degenerate,  is 
chronic.  Then  he  presents  naturally  the  same  phenomena  as  we 
have  attested  in  the  case  of  the  latter,  although  in  a  much  lowei 


284  DEGENERATION 

degree.  He  may  find  pleasure,  then,  in  crime  and  ugliness,  and 
in  the  former  rather  than  in  the  latter ;  for  crimes  are  social 
injuries,  while  uglinesses  are  the  visible  form  of  forces  unfavour- 
able to  the  individual  ;  but  social  instincts  are  feebler  than  the 
instincts  of  self-preservation.  Consequently  they  are  sooner 
put  to  sleep,  and  for  this  reason  the  repulsion  against  crime 
disappears  more  quickly  than  that  against  ugliness.  In  any 
case,  this  state  is  also  an  aberration  in  the  normal  being, 
but  imputable  to  fatigue,  and  in  him  is  not  chronic,  as  in 
the  degenerate,  nor  does  it  amount  to  the  hidden  fundamental 
character  of  his  being,  as  the  sophists  who  calumniate  him 
pretend. 

An  uninterrupted  line  of  development  leads  from  the  French 
romantic  school  to  the  Parnassians,  and  all  the  germs  of  the 
aberrations  which  confront  us  in  full  expansion  among  the  latter 
can  be  distinguished  in  the  former.  We  have  seen  in  the  pre- 
ceding book  how  superficial  and  poor  in  ideas  their  poetry  is, 
how  they  exalt  their  imagination  above  the  observation  of  reality, 
and  what  importance  they  as.^ijn  to  their  world  of  dreams. 
Sainte-Beuve,  who  at  first  joined  their  group,  says  on  this 
subject,  with  a  complacency  which  proves  he  was  not  conscious 
of  expressing  any  blame  :  *  The  Romance  School  .  .  .  had  a 
thought,  a  cult,  viz.,  love  of  art  and  passionate  inquisitiveness  for 
a  vivid  expression,  a  new  turn,  a  choice  image,  a  brilliant  rhyme  : 
they  wished  for  every  one  of  their  frames  a  peg  of  gold.  [A  re- 
markably false  image,  let  it  be  said  in  passing.  A  rich  frame 
may  be  desired  for  a  picture,  but  as  to  the  nail  which  supports  it, 
regard  will  be  had  to  its  solidity  and  not  to  its  preciousness.] 
Children  if  you  will,  but  children  of  the  Muses,  who  never 
sacrifice  to  ordinary  grace  \_grdce  vulgaire\."^ 

Let  us  hold  this  admission  firmly,  that  the  romantic  writers 
were  children  ;  they  were  so  in  their  inaptitude  to  comprehend 
the  world  and  men,  in  the  seriousness  and  zeal  with  which  they 
gave  themselves  up  to  their  game  of  rhymes,  in  the  artlessness 
with  which  they  placed  themselves  above  the  precepts  of  morality 
and  good  sense  in  use  among  adults.  Let  us  exaggerate  this 
childishness  a  little  (without  allying  with  it  the  wild  and  exuberant 
imagination  of  a  Victor  Hugo,  and  his  gift  of  lightning-like 
rapidity  of  association,  evoking  the  most  startling  antitheses),  and 
we  obtain  the  literary  figure  of  Theophile  Gautier,  whom  the 
imbecile  Barbey  d'Aurevilly  could  name  in  the  same  breath  with 
Goethe, t  evidently  for  the  sole  reason  that  the  sound  of  the 
great  German  poet's  name  in  French  pronunciation  has  a  certain 
resemblance  to  that  of  Gautier,  but  of  whom  one  of  his  admirers, 

*  Sainte-Beuve,  Causeries  du  Lundz,  vol.  xiv.,  p.  70.     Article  on  the  com- 
plete poems  of  Theodore  de  Banville,  October  12th,  1857. 
t  ^axhty  d!  KxxreMiWy,  Goethe  et  Diderot.     Paris,  1882. 


EGO-MANIA  285 

M.  J.  K.  Huysmans,  says:'^  '  Des  Esseintes  [the  hero  of  his 
novel]  became  gradually  indifferent  to  Gautier's  work  ;  his 
admiration  for  that  incomparable  painter  had  gone  on  diminish- 
ing from  day  to  day,  and  now  he  was  more  astonished  than 
delighted  by  his  indifferent  descriptions.  The  impression  left 
by  the  objects  was  fixed  on  his  keenly  observant  eye,  but  it  was 
localized  there,  and  had  not  penetrated  further  into  his  brain 
and  flesh  [?]  ;  like  a  monstrous  reflector,  he  was  constantly 
limited  to  reverberate  his  environment  with  an  impersonal 
distinctness.' 

When  M.  Huysmans  regards  Gautier  as  an  impersonal  mirror 
of  reality,  he  is  the  victim  of  an  optical  illusion.  In  verse  as  in 
prose,  Gautier  is  a  mechanical  worker,  who  threads  one  line  of 
glittering  adjectives  after  another,  without  designing  anything 
particular.  His  descriptions  never  give  a  clear  outline  of  the 
object  he  wishes  to  depict.  They  recall  some  crude  mosaic  of 
the  later  Byzantine  decadence,  the  different  stones  of  which  are 
lapis-lazuli,  malachite,  chrysoprase  and  jasper,  and  whjch  yield, 
for  this  reason,  an  impression  of  barbarous  splendour,  while 
scarcely  any  design  is  discernible.  In  his  ego-mania,  lacking  all 
sympathy  with  the  external  world,  he  does  not  suspect  what 
sorrows  and  joys  its  drama  encloses,  and  just  as  he  feels  nothing 
in  the  prospect  before  him,  so  neither  can  he  awaken  in  the 
reader  emotion  of  any  sort  by  his  listless  and  affected  attempts 
to  render  it.  The  only  emotions  of  which  he  is  capable,  apart 
from  his  arrogance  and  vanity,  are  those  connected  with  sex  ; 
hence,  in  his  uorks  we  merely  find  alternations  between  glacial 
coldness  and  lubricity. 

If  we  exaggerate  Th^ophile  Gautier's  worship  of  form  and 
lasciviousness,  and  if  to  his  indifference  towards  the  world  and 
men  we  associate  the  aberration  which  caused  it  to  degenerate 
into  a  predilection  for  the  bad  and  the  loathsome,  we  have 
before  us  the  figure  of  Baudelaire.  We  must  stop  there  awhile, 
for  Baudelaire  is— even  more  than  Gautier — the  intellectual 
chief  and  model  of  the  Parnassians,  and  his  influence  dominates 
the  present  generation  of  French  poets,  and  authors,  and  a 
portion  also  of  English  poets  and  authors,  to  an  omnipotent 
degree. 

It  is  not  necessary  to  demonstrate  at  length  that  Baudelaire 
was  a  degenerate  subject.  He  died  of  general  paralysis,  after  he 
had  wallowed  for  months  in  the  lowest  depths  of  insanity.  But 
even  if  no  such  horrible  end  had  protected  the  diagnosis  from 
all  attack,  there  would  be  no  doubt  as  to  its  accuracy,  seeing 
that  Baudelaire  showed  all  the  mental  stigmata  of  degeneration 
during  the  whole  of  his  life.     He  was  at  once  a  mystic  and  an 

*  J.  K.  Huysmans,  A  Rebours.     4^me  mille.    Paris,  1892,  p.  251. 


286  DEGENERATION 

erotomaniac,*  an  eater  of  hashish  and  opium  ;t  he  felt  himself 
attracted  in  the  characteristic  fashion  by  other  degenerate  minds, 
mad  or  depraved,  and  appreciated,  for  example,  above  all 
authors,  the  gifted  but  mentally-deranged  Edgar  Poe,  and  the 
opium-eater  Thomas  de  Quincey.  He  translated  Poe's  tales,  and 
devoted  to  them  an  enthusiastic  biography  and  critique,  while 
from  the  Confessions  of  an  Opium-Eater,  by  De  Quincey,  he  com- 
piled an  exhaustive  selection,  to  which  he  wrote  extravagant 
annotations. 

The  peculiarities  of  Baudelaire's  mind  are  revealed  to  us  in 
the  collection  of  his  poems,  to  which  he  has  given  a  title 
betraying  at  once  his  self-knowledge  and  his  cynicism  :  Les 
Fleurs  du  Mai — '  The  Flowers  of  Evil.'  The  collection  is  not 
complete.  There  lack  some  pieces  which  only  circulate  in  manu- 
script, because  they  are  too  infamous  to  bear  the  full  publicity 
of  a  marketable  book.  I  will  take  my  quotations,  however, 
from  the  printed  verses  only,  which  are  quite  sufficient  to 
characterize  their  author. 

Baudelaire  hates  life  and  movement.  In  the  piece  entitled 
Les  Hiboux,  he  shows  us  his  owls  sitting  in  a  row,  motionless, 
under  the  black  yews,  and  continues : 

*Leur  attitude  au  sage  enseigne 
Qu'il  faut  en  ce  monde  qu'il  craigne 
Le  tumulte  et  le  mouvement. 

L'homme  ivre  d'une  ombre  qui  passe 
Porte  toujours  le  chatiment 
D'avoir  voulu  changer  de  place.' 

Beauty  says  of  herself,  in  the  piece  of  that  name : 

'  Je  bais  le  mouvement  qui  d^place  les  lignes  ; 
Et  jamais  je  ne  pleure  et  jamais  je  ne  ris.' 


*  Paul  Bourget,  op.  cit.,  p.  6  :  '  He  is  a  libertine,  and  depraved  visions 
amounting  to  Sadism  disturb  ibe  very  man  who  comes  to  worship  the  raised 
finger  of  his  Madonna.  The  morose  orgies  of  the  vulgar  Venus,  the  heady 
fumes  of  the  black  Venus,  the  refined  dtlighis  of  the  learned  Venus,  the 
criminal  audacity  of  the  bloodthirsty  Venu^,  have  left  their  memories  in  the 
most  !-piritualized  of  his  poems.  An  offensive  odour  of  vile  alcoves  escapes 
from  ti.ese  .  .  .  verses.  .  .  .'  And  p.  19  :'  ...  It  is  not  so  with  the  mystic 
soul — and  that  of  Baudelaire's  was  one.  For  this  soul  did  not  content  itself 
with  a  faith  in  an  idea.  It  saw  God.  He  was  for  it  not  a  word,  not  a 
symbol,  not  an  abstraction,  but  a  Being,  in  whose  company  the  soul  lived 
as  we  live  with  a  father  who  loves  us.' 

t  Th(^ophile  Gautier,  who  was  himself  a  member  of  a  hashish  club,  tries 
to  make  us  believe  {Les  Fleurs  du  Mai,  p.  57  et  seq.),  that  Baudelaire  was 
addicted  to  the  use  of  narcotic  poisons  only  with  the  object  of  'physiological 
experiment'  ;  but  we  knuw  the  tendency  of  the  degenerate  to  represent  the 
impulsions  of  which  they  are  ashamed  as  acts  of  free  will,  for  which  they 
have  all  sorts  of  palliating  explanations. 


EGO-MANIA  287 

He  abhors  the  natural  as  much  as  he  loves  the  artificial.    Thus 
he  depicts  his  ideal  world  {^Reve  Parisien)  : 

*  De  ce  terrible  paysage 

Que  jamais, oeil  mortel  ne  vi', 
Ce  matin  encore  I'image, 
Vague  et  lointaine,  me  ravit  .  ,  » 

'J'avais  banni  de  ces  spectacles 
Le  vdg^tal  irrdgulier  .  .  . 

*  Je  savourais  dans  mon  tableau 
L'enivrante  [!]  monotonie 

Du  metal,  du  marbre  et  de  I'eau. 

'Babel  d'escaliers  et  d'arcades 
C'etait  un  palais  infini, 
Plein  de  bassins  et  de  cascades 
Tombant  dans  I'or  mat  ou  bruni ; 

*  Et  des  cataractes  pesantes, 
Comme  des  rideaux  de  cristal, 
Se  suspendaient,  dblouissantes, 
A  des  murailles  de  m^tal. 

*  Non  d'arbres,  mais  de  colonnades 
Les  ^tangs  dormants  s'entouraient, 
Oil  de  gigantesques  naiades, 
Comme  des  femmes,  se  miraient. 

*  Des  nappes  d'eau  s'epanchaient,  bleues, 
Entre  des  quais  roses  et  verts, 
Pendant  des  millions  de  lieues, 

Vers  les  confins  de  I'univers  ; 

*  C'dtaient  des  pierres  inoui'es 

Et  des  flots  magiques  ;  c'etaient 
D'immenses  glaces  ^blouies 
Par  tout  ce  qu'elles  refletaient. 

*  Et  tout,  meme  la  couleur  noire, 
Semblait  fourbi,  clair,  irisd  .  .  . 

*  Nul  astre  d'ailleurs,  nuls  vestiges 
De  soleil,  meme  au  bas  du  ciel, 
Pour  illuminer  ces  prodiges, 

Qui  brillaient  d'un  feu  personnel  (!) 

*  Et  sur  ces  mouvantes  merveilles 
Planait  (terrible  nouveaut^  ! 

Tout  pour  I'oeil,  rien  pour  les  oreilles  !) 
Un  silence  d'eternitd' 

Such  is  the  world  he  represents  to  himself,  and  which  fills 
him  with  enthusiasm  :  not  an  '  irregular '  plant,  no  sun,  no  stars, 
no  movement,  no  noise,  nothing  but  metal  and  glass,  i.e.  some- 
thing like  a  tin  landscape  from  Nuremberg,  only  larger  'and  of 
more  costly  material,  a  plaything  for  the  child  of  an  American 
millionaire  suffering  from  the  wealth-madness  of  parvenus,  with 


288  DEGENERATION 

a  little  electric  lamp  in  the  interior,  and  a  mechanism  which 
slowly  turns  the  glass  cascades,  and  makes  the  glass  sheet  of 
water  slide.  Such  must  necessarily  be  the  aspect  of  the  ego- 
maniac's ideal  world.  Nature  leaves  him  cold  or  repels  him, 
because  he  neither  perceives  nor  comprehends  her  ;  hence,  where 
the  sane  man  sees  the  picture  of  the  external  v/orld,  the  ego- 
maniac is  surrounded  by  a  dark  void  in  which,  at  most,  uncom- 
prehended  nebulous  forms  are  hovering.  To  escape  the  horror 
of  them  he  projects,  as  from  a  magic-lantern,  coloured  shadows 
of  the  images  which  fill  his  consciousness  ;  but  these  representa- 
tions are  rigid,  inert,  uniform  and  infantile,  Hke  the  morbid  and 
weak  cerebral  centres  by  which  they  are  elaborated. 

The  incapacity  of  the  ego-maniac  to  feel  aright  external 
impressions,  and  the  toil  with  which  his  brain  works,  are  also 
the  key  of  the  frightful  tedium  of  which  Baudelaire  complains, 
and  of  the  profound  pessimism  with  which  he  contemplates  the 
world  and  life.     Let  us  hear  him  in  Le  Voyage : 

*  Nous  avons  vu  partout  ... 

Le  spectacle  ennuyeux  de  I'immortel  pdchd  : 

*  La  femme,  esclave  vile,  orgueilleuse  et  stupide, 
Sans  rire  s'adorant  et  s'aimant  sans  ddgout  ; 
L'homme,  tyran  goulu,  paillard,  dur  et  cupide, 
Esclave  de  I'esclave  et  ruisseau  dans  I'dgout  ; 

'  Le  bourreau  qui  jouit,  le  martyr  qui  sanglote  ; 
La  fete  qu'assaisonne  et  parfume  le  sang  ;  .  .  . 

*  Et  les  moins  sots,  hardis  amants  de  la  d^mence, 
Fuyant  le  grand  troupeau  parqu^  par  le  Destin, 
Et  se  r(!fugiant  dans  I'opium  immense  [!]. 

—  Tel  est  du  globe  entier  I'eternel  bulletin  .  .  • 

*  O  Mort,  vieux  capitaine,  il  est  temps  !  levons  I'ancre  ! 
Ce  pays  nous  ennuie,  O  Mort  1     Appareillons  I 

*  Nous  voulons  .  .  . 

Plonger  au  fond  du  gouffre,  Enfer  ou  Ciel,  qu'importe  ? 
Au  fund  de  I'lnconnu  pour  trouver  du  nouveau  !' 

This  desperate  cry  towards  the  'new'  is  the  natural  com- 
plaint of  a  brain  which  longs  to  feel  the  pleasures  of  action,  and 
greedily  craves  a  stimulation  which  his  powerless  sensory  nerves 
cannot  give  him.  Let  a  sane  man  imagine  the  state  of  mind 
into  which  he  would  fall  if  he  were  imprisoned  in  a  cell  where 
no  ray  of  light,  no  noise,  no  scent  from  the  outer  world  would 
reach  him.  He  would  then  have  an  accurate  idea  of  the  chronic 
state  of  mind  in  the  ego-maniac,  eternally  isolated  by  the  im- 
perfection of  his  nervous  system  from  the  universe,  from  its 
joyous  sounds,  from  its  changing  scenes  and  from  its  captivating 
movement.  Baudelaire  cannot  but  suffer  terribly  from  ennui, 
for  his  mind  really  learns  nothing  new   and  amusing,  and   is 


EGO-MANIA  28q 

forced  constantly  to  indulge  in  the  contemplation  of  his  ailing 
and  whimpering  self. 

The   only  pictures   which   fill   the   world  of  his   thought   are 
sombre,  wrathful  and  detestable.     He  says  {Un  Mortjoyeux)  : 

*  Dans  une  terre  grasse  et  pleine  d'escargots 

Je  veux  creuser  moi-meme  une  fosse  profounde 

Ou  je  puisse  k  loisir  Staler  mes  vieux  os 

Et  donnir  dans  I'oubli  comme  un  requin  dans  I'onde  .  .  . 

Plutot  que  d'implorer  une  larme  du  monde 

Vivant,  j'aimerais  mieux  inviter  les  corbeaux 

A  saigner  tous  les  bouts  de  ma  carcasse  immonde. 

*  O  vers  !  noir  compagnons  sans  oreille  et  sans  yeux, 
Voyez  venir  k  vous  un  mort  libre  et  joyeux  !' 

In  La  Cloche  felee,  he  says  of  himself: 

' .  .  .  Mon  ame  est  fel^e,  et  lorsqu'en  ses  ennuis 
Elle  veut  de  ses  chants  peupler  Fair  froid  des  nuits 
II  arrive  souvent  que  sa  voix  affaiblie 

Semble  le  rile  dpais  d'un  blessd  qu'on  oublie 

Au  bord  d'un  lac  de  sang,  sous  un  grand  tas  de  morts.'' 

Spleen  : 

' ,  .  .  Mon  triste  cerveau  ... 
C'est  .  .  .  un  immense  caveau 
Qui  contient  plus  de  morts  que  la  fosse  commune. 
- —  Je  suis  un  cimeti^re  abhorre  de  la  lune 
Ou,  comme  des  remords,  se  trainent  de  longs  vers.  •  .  • 

Horreiir  syjnpathique  : 

*  Cieux  dechirds  comme  des  greves, 
En  vous  se  mire  mon  orgueil  ! 
Vos  vastes  nuages  en  deuil. 

*Sont  les  corbillards  de  mes  reves, 
Et  vos  lueurs  sont  le  reflet, 
De  I'Enfer  ou  mon  coeur  se  plait !' 

Le  Coucher  du  Soleil  romantique  : 

'  Une  odeur  de  tombeau  dans  les  ten^bres  nage, 
Et  mon  pied  peureux  froisse,  au  bord  du  marecage, 
Des  crapauds  imprdvus  et  de  froids  Umagons.' 

Dance  macabre :  The  poet  speaking  to  a  skeleton  : 

'  Aucuns  t'appelleront  une  caricature, 
Qui  ne  comprennent  pas,  amants  ivres  de  chair, 
L'el^gance  sans  nom  de  I'humaine  armature. 
Tu  r^ponds,  grand  squelette,  k  mon  gout  le  plus  cher !  .  . .' 

Une  Charogne : 

*  Rappelez-vous  I'objet  que  nous  vimes,  mon  ime, 
Ce  beau  matin  d'ete  si  doux: 
Au  detour  d'un  sentier  une  charogne  infime 
Sur  un  lit  sem^  de  caiiloux, 

19 


2QO  DEGENERATION 

*  Les  jambes  en  I'air,  comme  une  femme  lubrique 

Brulante  et  suant  les  poisons, 
Ouvrait  d'une  fagon  nonchalante  et  c\nique 
Son  ventre  plain  d'exhalaisons  .  .  . 

*Et  le  ciel  regardait  la  carcasse  superbe  [!] 
Comme  une  fleur  s'epanouir. 
La  puanteur  ^tait  si  forte,  que  sur  I'herbe 
Vous  crutes  vous  ^vanouir  .  .  . 

*  Et  pourtant  vous  serez  semblable  k  cette  ordure, 

A  cette  horrible  infection, 
Etoile  de  mes  yeux,  soleil  de  ma  nature, 
Vous,  mon  ange  et  ma  passion  ! 

*Oui  !  telle  vous  serez,  6  la  reine  des  graces, 
Apres  les  derniers  sacrements, 
Quand  vous  irez,  sous  I'herbe  et  les  floraisons  grasses, 
Moisir  parmi  les  ossements.  ,  .  .' 

That  which  pleases  Baudelaire  most  are  these  pictures  of 
death  and  corruption  which  I  could  quote  in  still  greater  numbers 
if  I  did  not  think  that  these  examples  sufficed.  However,  next 
to  the  frightful  and  the  loathsome  it  is  the  morbid,  the  criminal 
and  the  lewd,  which  possess  the  strongest  attraction  for  hini. 

Le  Reve  d'un  Ciirieux  : 

'  Connais-tu,  comme  moi,  la  douleur  savoureuse  ?  .  .  .* 

Spleen  : 

'  Mon  chat  sur  le  carreau  cherchant  une  litiere 
Agite  sans  repos  son  corps  maigre  et  galeux.  .  .  , 

Le  Vin  dii  Solitaire  : 

*  Un  baiser  libertin  de  la  maigre  Adeline.  .  .  .* 

Le  Crepuscule  du  Soir  : 

'  Voici  le  soir  charmant,  ami  du  criminel ;  .  .  . 
Et  rhomme  impatient  se  change  en  bete  fauve.  .  .  , 

La  Destruction  : 

*  Sans  resse  k  mes  cot^s  s'agite  le  Demon  .  .  , 
Je  I'avale  et  le  sens  qui  brule  mon  poumon 
Et  I'emplit  d'un  ddsir  eternel  et  coupable  .  .  . 

*  II  me  conduit  ,  .  . 

Haletant  et  brise  de  fatigue,  au  milieu 

Des  plaines  de  I'Ennui,  profondes  et  d^sertes, 

*Et  jette  dans  mes  yeux  .  .  . 
Des  vetements  souillds,  des  blessures  ouvertes, 
Ei  I'appareil  sanglant  de  la  Destruction  !' 

In  Une  Martyre  he  describes  complacently  and  in  detail  a 
bedroom   in  which  a  young,  presumably  pretty  courtesan  has 


EGO-MANIA  291 

been  murdered  ;  the  assassin  had  cut  off  her  head  and  carried  it 
away.     The  poet  is  only  curious  to  know  one  thing  : 

*  L'homme  vindicatif  que  tu  n'as  pu,  vivante, 

Malgr^  tant  d'amour,  assouvir, 
Combla-t-il  sur  ta  chair  inerte  et  complaisante 
L'immensit^  de  son  d^sir  ?' 

Femmes  damnees,  a  piece  dedicated  to  the  worst  aberration  of 
degenerate  women,  terminates  with  this  ecstatic  apostrophe  to 
the  heroines  of  unnatural  vice  : 

*  O  vierges,  6  demons,  o  monstres,  6  martyres, 
De  la  r^alite  grands  esprits  contempteurs, 
Chercheuses  d'infini,  devotes  et  satyres, 
Tantot  pleines  de  cris,  tantot  pleines  de  pleurs, 

Vous  que  dans  votre  enfer  mon  ime  a  poursuivies, 
Pauvres  soeurs,  je  vous  aime  autant  que  je  vous  plains,  . .  .'• 


Preface  : 


'  Si  le  viol,  le  poison,  le  poignard,  I'incendie, 
N'ont  pas  encore  brodd  de  leurs  plaisants  dessins 
Le  canevas  banal  de  nos  piteux  destins, 
C'est  que  notre  ame,  hdlas  !  n'est  pas  assez  hardie.  .  . .' 

But  if  he  is  not  bold  enough  to  commit  crimes  himself,  he 
does  not  leave  a  moment's  doubt  that  he  loves  them,  and  much 
prefers  them  to  virtue,  just  as  he  prefers  the  '  end  of  autumns, 
winters,  springs  steeped  in  mud,'  to  the  fine  season  of  the  year 
(Brumes  et  Pluies).  He  is  '  hostile  to  the  universe  rather  than 
indifferent '  {Les  sept  Viei/lards).  The  sight  of  pain  leaves  him 
cold,  and  if  tears  are  shed  before  him  they  only  evoke  in  his 
mind  the  image  of  a  landscape  with  running  waters. 

Madrigal  triste  : 

'  Que  m'importe  que  tu  sois  sage  ? 
Sois  belle  !  et  sois  triste  !  Les  pleurs 
Ajoutent  un  charme  au  visage, 
Comme  le  fleuve  au  paysage.' 

In  the  struggle  between  Abel  et  Cain  he  takes  the  part  of  the 
latter  without  hesitation  : 

'  Race  d'Abel,  dors,  bois  et  mange  ; 
Dieu  te  sourit  complaisamment. 

*  Race  de  Cain,  dans  la  fange 
Rampe  et  meurs  misdrablement. 

*  Race  d'Abel,  ton  sacrifice 
Flatte  le  nez  du  Sdraphin. 

'  Race  de  Ca'i'n,  ton  supplice 
Aura-t-il  jamais  une  fin  ? 

*  Race  d'Abel,  vois  tes  semailles 
Et  ton  bdtail  venir  k  bien  ; 


292  DEGENERATION 

*  Race  de  Cain,  tes  entrailles 

Hurlent  la  faim  comme  un  vieux  cbien. 

*  Race  d'Abel,  chauffe  ton  ventre 
A  ton  foyer  patriarchal ; 

'  Race  de  Cain,  dans  ton  antre 
Tremble  de  froid,  pauvre  chacal ! 

*  Ah  !  race  d'Abel,  ta  charogne 
Engraissera  le  sol  fumant ! 

'  Race  de  Cain,  ta  besogne 
N'est  pas  faite  suffisamment. 

*  Race  d'Abel,  void  ta  honte  : 
Le  fer  est  vaincu  par  I'dpieu  !  [?] 

*  Race  de  Cain,  au  ciel  monte 
Et  sur  la  terre  jette  Dieu  !' 

If  he  prays  it  is  to  the  devil  {Les  Litanies  de  Sataii); 

♦  Gloire  et  louange  k  toi,  Satan,  dans  les  hauteurs 
Du  Ciel,  ou  tu  rdgnas,  et  dans  les  profondeurs 
De  I'Enfer,  ou,  vaincu,  tu  reves  en  silence  ! 
Fais  que  mon  ame  un  jour,  sous  I'Arbre  de  Science, 
Prds  de  toi  se  repose.  .  .  .' 

Here  there  mingles  with  the  aberration  that  mysticism  which 
is  never  wanting  in  the  degenerate.  Naturally,  the  love  of  evil 
can  only  take  the  form  of  devil-worship,  or  diabolism,  if  the 
subject  is  a  believer,  if  the  supernatural  is  held  to  be  a  real  thing. 
Only  he  who  is  rooted  with  all  his  feelings  in  religious  faith  will, 
if  he  suffers  from  moral  aberration,  seek  bliss  in  the  adoration  of 
Satan,  in  impassioned  blasphemy  of  God  and  the  Saviour,  in 
the  violation  of  the  symbols  of  faith,  or  will  wish  to  incite  un- 
natural voluptuousness  by  mortal  sin  and  infernal  damnation, 
though  humouring  it  in  the  messe  noir,  in  the  presence  of  a 
really  consecrated  priest,  and  in  a  hideous  travesty  of  all  the 
forms  of  the  liturgy. 

Besides  the  devil,  Baudelaire  adores  only  one  other  power, 
viz.,   voluptuousness,     lie   prays   thus    to   it    {La   Priere   d'un 

Paten)  ; 

*  Ah  !  ne  ralentis  pas  tes  flammes  1 
Rechauffe  mon  cceur  engourdi, 
Volupt^.  torture  des  ames  !  .   .  . 
Volupie,  sois  toujours  ma  reine  !' 

To  complete  the  portrait  of  this  mind,  let  us  cite  two  more 
of  his  peculiarities.  He  suffers  first  from  images  of  perpetual 
anguish,  as  his  piece  testifies  {Le  Goiiffre),  which  is  valuable  as 
a  confession  : 

*.  .  .  Tout  est  abime, — action,  ddsir,  reve, 
Parole  !  et  sur  mon  poil  qui  tout  droit  se  relive 
Mainte  fois  de  la  peur  je  sens  passer  le  vent. 


EGO-MANIA  293 

*  En  haut,  en  bas,  partout,  la  profondeur,  la  gr^ve, 
Le  silence,  I'espace  affreux  et  captivant  .  .  . 

Sur  le  fonde  de  mes  nuits,  Dieu,  de  son  doigt  savant, 
Dessine  un  cauchemar  multiforme  et  sans  treve. 

*  J'ai  peur  du  sommeil  comme  on  a  peur  d'un  grand  trou, 
Tout  plein  de  vague  horreur,  menant  on  ne  sait  ou  j 

Je  ne  vols  qu'  infini  par  toutes  les  fenetres, 

*  Et  mon  esprit,  toujours  du  vertige  hantd, 
Jalouse  du  neant  I'insensibilitd.' 

Baudelaire  describes  here  accurately  enough  that  obsession 
of  degenerates  which  is  called  'fear  of  abysses'  (cremnophobia).* 
His  second  peculiarity  is  his  interest  in  scents.  He  is  attentive 
to  them,  interprets  them  ;  they  provoke  in  him  all  kinds  of 
sensations  and  associations.  He  expresses  himself  thus  on  this 
subject  in  Correspondances  : 

*  Les  parfums,  les  couleurs,  et  les  sons  se  rdpondent. 

*  II  est  des  parfums  frais  comme  des  chairs  d'enfants, 
Doux  comme  les  hautbois,  verts  comme  les  prairies, 
—  Et  d'autres,  corrumpus,  riches  et  triomphants, 

•Ayant  I'expansion  des  choses  infinies, 
Comme  I'ambre,  le  muse,  le  benjoin  et  I'encens, 
Qui  chantent  les  transports  de  I'esprit  et  des  sens.' 

He  loves  woman  through  his  sense  of  smell  .  .  .  ('Le  parfum 
de  tes  charmes  etranges,'  A  una  Malabaraise),  and  never  fails, 
in  describing  a  mistress,  to  mention  her  exhalations. 

Parfum  exotique  : 

'  Ouand  les  deux  yeux  fermes,  en  un  soir  chaud  d'automne, 
Je  respire  I'odeur  de  ton  sein  chaleureux, 
Je  vois  se  derouler  des  rivages  heureux 
Ou'eblouissent  les  feux  d'un  soleil  monotone.* 

La  Chevelure  : 

'  O  toison,  moutonnant  jusque  sur  I'encolure  ! 
O  boucles  !  O  parfum  charg^  de  nonchaloir  !  .  ,  ," 

*  La  langoureuse  Asie  et  la  brulante  Afrique, 
Tout  un  monde  lointain,  absent,  presque  defunt, 
Vit  dans  tes  profondeurs,  foret  aromatique  !' 

Naturally,  instead  of  good  odours,  he  prefers  the  perfumes 
which  affect  the  healthy  man  as  stinks.  Putrefaction,  decom- 
position and  pestilence  charm  his  nose. 

Le  Flacori : 

*  II  est  de  forts  parfums  pour  qui  toute  mati^re 

Est  poreuse.     On  dirait  qu'ils  pdn^trent  le  verre  .  ,  , 
Parfois  on  trouve  un  vieux  flacon  qui  se  souvient, 
D'ou  jaillit  toute  vive  une  ime  qui  revient. 

*  Dr.  E.  Regis,  Manuel  Pratique  de  Mddecine  mentale.     2e  Edition.     Paris, 
1892,  p.  279. 


294  DEGENERATION 

'  Voilk  le  souvenir  enivrant  qui  voltige 
Dans  I'air  trouble  ;  les  yeux  se  ferment ;  le  vertige 
Saisit  Fame  vaincue  et  la  pousse  h.  deux  mains 
Vers  un  gouffre  obscurci  de  miasmes  humains  ; 

*  II  la  terrasse  au  bord  d'un  gouffre  seculaire, 
Ou,  Lazare  odorant  dechirant  son  suaire, 
Se  meut  dans  son  rdveil  le  cadavre  spectral 
D'un  vieil  amour  ranci,  charmant  et  sepulcral. 

*  Ainsi,  quand  je  serai  perdu  dans  la  memoire 
Des  hommes,  dans  le  coin  d'une  sinistra  armoire 
Ouand  on  m'aura  jete,  vieux  flacon  desole, 
i3dcr^pit,  poudreux,  sale,  abject,  visqueux,  feld, 

*  Je  serai  ton  cercueil,  aimable  pestilence  ! 
Le  temoin  de  ta  force  et  de  ta  virulence, 
Cher  poison  prdpard  par  les  anges  !  .  .  .' 

We  now  know  all  the  features  which  compose  Baudelaire's 
character.  He  has  the  '  cult  of  self';*  he  abhors  nature,  move- 
ment and  life  ;  he  dreams  of  an  ideal  of  immobility,  of  eternal 
silence,  of  symm.etry  and  artificiality  ;  he  loves  disease,  ugliness 
and  crime  ;  all  his  inclinations,  in  profound  aberration,  are 
opposed  to  those  of  sane  beings  ;  what  charms  his  sense  of 
smell  is  the  odour  of  corruption  ;  his  eye,  the  sight  of  carrion, 
suppurating  wounds  and  the  pain  of  others  ;  he  feels  happy  in 
muddy,  cloudy,  autumn  weather  ;  his  senses  are  excited  by 
unnatural  pleasures  only.  He  complains  of  frightful  tedium 
and  of  feelings  of  anguish ;  his  mind  is  filled  with  sombre 
ideas,  the  association  of  his  ideas  works  exclusively  with  sad 
or  loathsome  images  ;  the  only  thing  which  can  distract  or 
interest  him  is  badness — murder,  blood,  lewdness  and  falsehood. 
He  addresses  his  prayers  to  Satan,  and  aspires  to  hell. 

He  has  attempted  to  make  his  peculiarities  pass  for  a  comedy 
and  a  studied  pose.  In  a  note  placed  at  the  head  of  the  first 
edition  (1857)  of  the  Fleurs  du  Mai,  he  says:  'Among  the 
following  pieces,  the  most  characteristic  .  .  .  has  been  con- 
sidered, at  least  by  men  of  intellect,  only  for  what  it  really  is  : 
the  imitation  of  the  arguments  of  ignorance  and  fury.  Faithful 
to  his  painful  programme,  the  author  has  had,  like  a  good 
comedian,  to  fashion  his  mind  to  all  sophisms,  as  to  all  corruptions. 
This  candid  declaration  will,  doubtless,  not  prevent  honest  critics 
from  ranking  him  among  the  theologians  of  the  people,'  etc. 
Some  of  his  admirers  accept  this  explanation  or  appear  to  accept 
it.  '  His  intense  disdain  of  the  vulgar,'  murmurs  Paul  Bourget, 
*  breaks  out  in  extremes  of  paradox,  in  laborious  mystification 
.  .  .  Among  many  readers,  even  the  keenest,  the  fear  of  being 
duped  by  this  grand  disdainer  hinders  full  admiration.f     The 

*  Les  Fleurs  du  Mai,  p.  5 — '  le  culte  de  soi-meme.'  This  is  Thdophile 
Gautier's  own  term. 

t  Paul  Bourget,  op.  cit.,  p.  31. 


EGO-MANIA  295 

term  has  become  a  commonplace  of  criticism  for  Baudelaire ;  he 
is  a  *  mystificateur ' ;  everything  for  him  is  only  a  deception; 
he  himself  neither  feels  nor  believes  anything  he  expresses  in  his 
poetry.  It  is  twaddle,  and  nothing  else.  A  rhetorician  of  the 
Paul  Bourget  sort,  threshing  straw,  and  curling  scraps  of  paper, 
may  believe  that  an  inwardly  free  man  is  capable  of  preserving 
artificially,  all  his  life  long,  the  attitude  of  a  galley-slave  or  a 
madman,  well  knowing  he  is  only  acting  a  comedy.  The  expert 
knows  that  the  choice  of  an  attitude,  such  as  Baudelaire's,  is 
a  proof  in  itself  of  deep-seated  cerebral  disturbance. 

Mental  therapeutics  has  declared  that  persons  who  simulate 
insanity  with  some  perseverance,  even  with  a  rational  object,  as, 
for  example,  in  the  case  of  certain  criminals  on  their  trial,  in  order 
to  escape  punishment,  are  almost  without  exception  really  mad,* 
although  not  to  the  degree  they  try  to  represent,  just  as  the 
inclination  to  accuse  one's  self,  or  to  boast,  of  imaginary  crimes 
is  a  recognised  symptom  of  hysteria.  The  assertion  of  Baude- 
laire himself,  that  his  Satanism  is  only  a  studied  role^  has  no 
sort  of  value  whatever.  As  is  so  frequently  the  case  among 
the  'higher  degenerates,'  he  feels  in  his  heart  that  his  aberra- 
tions are  morbid,  immoral  and  anti-social,  and  that  all  decent 
persons  would  despise  him  or  take  pity  on  him,  if  they  were  con- 
vinced that  he  was  really  what  he  boasts  of  being  in  his  poems  ; 
he  has  recourse,  consequently,  to  the  childish  excuse  that  male- 
factors also  often  have  on  their  lips,  viz.,  '  that  it  was  not  meant 

*  Ch  J.  J.  Sazaret,  Etude  siir  la  Simulation  de  la  Folie.  Nancy,  1888. 
This  pamphlet  by  a  beginner,  which  contains  a  useful  collection  of  clinical 
observations,  is  particularly  amusing,  in  that  all  the  observations  cited  by  the 
author  demonstrate  exactly  the  reverse  of  what  he  proposes  to  prove.  After 
having  himself  asserted  (p.  22)  that  '  the  victims  of  hysteria  are  much  given 
to  simulate  all  sorts  of  maladies,'  he  says  (p.  29)  :  '  Persons  mentally 
affected  now  and  then  simulate  madness  ;  the  case  is  rare,  but  it  has  never- 
theless been  verified,  and  if  it  has  not  been  oftener  recorded,  it  is,  we  believe, 
that  observers  have  limited  themselves  to  a  superficial  examination,  and  cer- 
tain actions  have  not  been  analyzed.'  The  case  is  so  far  from  rare  that  it  is 
pointed  out  in  every  observation  quoted  by  the  author.  In  the  case  of  Bail- 
larger  (2nd  observation),  the  so-called  simulatrix  had  been  in  a  lunatic  asylum 
eight  years  before,  as  a  fully  confirmed  mad-woman  ;  in  the  case  of  Morel 
(4th  observation),  the  simulator  'had  a  nervous  attack  at  the  sight  of  a 
lancet,'  which  is  clearly  aichmophobia  and  a  certain  stigma  of  degeneration  ; 
in  the  6th  observation  Morel  admits  that  '  the  extravagance  of  the  subject, 
his  fear  of  poison '  (thus  a  case  of  pronounced  iophobia),  '  and  the  fact  of 
picking  up  filth,  indicate  a  possible  mental  disorder';  the  case  of  Foville 
(loth  observation)  '  had  a  certain  number  of  insane  in  his  family'  ;  the  case 
of  Legrand  du  Saulle  (i8th  observation)  was  'the  son  of  a  hysterical  woman 
and  grandson  of  a  madman' ;  the  case  of  Bonnet  and  Delacroix  (19th  obser- 
vation) 'numbers  some  insane  among  his  ancestors'  ;  the  case  of  Billod 
(22nd  observation)  '  has  often  manifested  disturbance  and  delirium,'  etc.  All 
these  supposed  simulators  were  insane  quite  unmistakably,  and  the  fact  that 
they  intentionally  exaggerated  the  symptoms  of  their  delirium  was  only  a 
further  proof  of  their  alienation. 


296  DEGENERATION 

seriously.'  Perhaps  also  Baudelaire's  consciousness  experienced 
a  sincere  horror  of  the  perverse  instincts  of  his  unconscious  life, 
and  he  sought  to  make  himself  believe  that  with  his  Satanism  he 
was  laughing  at  the  Philistines.  But  such  a  tardy  palliation 
does  not  deceive  the  psychologist,  and  is  of  no  importance  for  his 
judgment. 


CHAPTER  III. 

DECADENTS   AND   ^ESTHETES. 

As  on  the  death  of  Alexander  the  Great  his  generals  fell  on  the 
conqueror's  empire,  and  each  one  seized  a  portion  of  land,  so 
did  the  imitators  that  Baudelaire  numbered  among  his  con- 
temporaries and  the  generation  following — many  even  without 
waiting  for  his  madness  and  death — take  possession  of  some  one 
of  his  peculiarities  for  literary  exploitation.  The  school  of 
Baudelaire  reflects  the  character  of  its  master,  strangely  distorted  ; 
it  has  become  in  some  sort  like  a  prism,  which  diffracts  this  light 
into  its  elementary  rays.  His  delusion  of  anxiety  (anxiomania), 
and  his  predilection  for  disease,  death  and  putrefaction  (necro- 
philia), have  fallen,  as  we  have  seen  in  the  preceding  book,  to 
the  lot  of  M.  Maurice  Rollinat.  M.  CatuUe  Mendes  has  inherited 
his  sexual  aberrations  and  lasciviousness,  and  besides  all  the 
newer  French  pornographists  rely  upon  them  for  proving  the 
'  artistic  raison  d'etre '  of  their  depravity.  Jean  Richepin,  in 
La  Chanson  des  Gtietix,  has  spied  in  him,  and  copied,  his  glorifica- 
tion of  crime,  and,  further,  in  Les  Blasphemes,  has  swelled  Baude- 
laire's imprecations  and  prayers  to  the  devil  to  the  size  of  a  fat 
volume,  in  a  most  dreary  and  wearisome  manner.  His  mysticism 
suckles  the  Symbolists,  who,  after  his  example,  pretend  to 
perceive  mysterious  relations  between  colours  and  the  sensations 
of  the  other  senses,  with  this  difference,  that  they  hear  colours 
while  he  smelt  them  ;  or,  if  you  will,  they  have  an  eye  in  their 
ear,  while  he  saw  with  the  nose.  In  Paul  Verlaine  we  meet  again 
his  mixture  of  sensuality  and  pietism.  Swinburne  has  established 
an  English  depot  for  his  Sadism,  compounded  of  lewdness  and 
cruelty,  for  his  mysticism  and  for  his  pleasure  in  crime,  and 
I  greatly  fear  that  Giosud  Carducci  himself,  otherwise  so  richly 
gifted  and  original,  must  have  turned  his  eyes  towards  the 
Litanies  de  Satan,  when  he  wrote  his  celebrated  Ode  d  Satan. 

The  diabolism  of  Baudelaire  has  been  specially  cultivated  by 
Villiers  de  I'lsle-Adam  and  Barbey  d'Aurevilly.  These  two  men 
have,  in  addition  to  the  general  family  likeness  of  the  degenerate, 


EGO-MANIA  297 

a  series  of  special  features  in  common.  Villiers  and  Barbey 
attributed  to  themselves,  as  the  deranged  frequently  do,  a 
fabulous  genealogy  ;  the  former  aspired  to  be  a  descendant  of 
Count  de  I'lsle-Adam,  the  celebrated  Marshal  and  Grand-Master 
of  Malta  (who  as  such  could  not  be  married,  be  it  understood  !), 
and  he  claimed  one  day,  in  a  letter  addressed  to  the  Queen  of 
England,  the  surrender  of  Malta  in  virtue  of  his  right  of  heritage. 
Barbey  annexed  the  aristocratic  surname  of  d'Aurevilly,  and 
during  the  whole  of  his  life  spoke  of  his  noble  race — which 
had  no  existence.  Both  made  a  theatrical  display  of  fanatical 
Catholicism,  but  revelled  at  the  same  time  in  studied  blas- 
phemies against  God.*  Both  delighted  in  eccentricities  of 
costume  and  modes  of  life,  and  Barbey  had  the  habit  of  grapho- 
maniacs,  which  we  know  already,  of  writing  his  letters  and  his 
literary  works  with  different  coloured  inks.  Villiers  de  I'lsle- 
Adam,  and  still  more  Barbey  d'Aurevilly,  created  a  class  of 
poetry  to  the  worship  of  the  devil,  which  recalls  the  craziest 
depositions  of  witches  of  the  Middle  Ages  when  put  to  the 
torture.  Barbey  especially  may  be  said  to  have  gone,  in  this 
respect,  to  the  limits  of  the  imaginable.  His  book  Le  Pr&tre 
marie  might  be  written  by  a  contemporary  of  witch-burners ; 
but  it  is  surpassed  in  its  turn  by  Les  Diaboliques,  a  collection  of 
crack-brained  histories,  where  men  and  women  wallow  in  the 
most  hideous  license,  continually  invoking  the  devil,  extolling 
and  serving  him.  All  the  invention  in  these  ravings  Barbey 
stole  with  utter  shamelessness  from  the  books  of  the  Marquis  de 
Sade,  without  a  shade  of  shame  ;  that  which  belongs  properly  to 
him  is  the  colouring  of  Catholic  theology  he  gives  to  his  profli- 
gacies. If  I  only  speak  in  general  terms  of  the  books  mentioned 
here,  without  entering  into  details,  without  summarizing  the 
contents,  or  quoting  characteristic  passages,  it  is  because  my 
demonstrations  do  not  require  a  plunge  into  this  filth,  and  it  is 
sufficient  to  point  the  finger  from  afar  at  the  sink  of  vice  which 
testifies  to  Baudelaire's  influence  on  his  contemporaries. 

Barbey,  the  imitator  of  Baudelaire,  has  himself  found  an 
imitator  in  M.  Josdphin  Peladan,  whose  first  novel,  Vice  supreme, 
occupies  an  eminent  place  in  the  literature  of  diabolism.  M. 
Peladan,  who  had  not  yet  promoted  himself  to  the  dignity  of  a 
first-class  Assyrian  king,  paraphrases  in  his  book  what  he  means 
by  '  vice  supreme  '  .•  '  Let  us  deny  Satan  !  Sorcery  has  always 
sorcerers  .  .  .  superior  minds  which  have  no  need  of  conjuring- 
book,  their  thought  being  a  page  written  by  hell  for  hell. 
Instead  of  the  kid  they  have  killed  the  good  soul  within  them,  and 

*  Fr.  Paulhan,  op.  cit,  p.  92  :  '  While  affecting  the  faith  of  a  seminarist, 
he  [Villiers]  delighted  in  blasphemy.  He  considered  the  right  to  blaspheme 
as  his  peculiar  property.  . .  .  This  Catholic  Breton  loved  the  society  of  Satan 
more  than  that  of  God.' 


298  DEGENERATION 

are  going  to  the  Sabbath  of  the  Word,'  [May  the  reader  not 
stumble  over  obscurities !  What  were  Peladan  if  he  were  not 
mystical  ?]  '  They  assemble  to  profane  and  soil  the  idea.  Exist- 
ing vice  does  not  satisfy  them  ;  they  invent,  they  rival  each 
other  in  seeking  for,  neiv  evil,  and  if  they  find  it  they  applaud 
each  other.  Which  is  worst,  the  Sabbath-orgies  of  the  body  or 
those  of  the  mind,  of  criminal  action  or  of  perverted  thought .'' 
To  reason,  justify,  to  apotheosize  evil,  to  establish  its  ritual,  to 
show  the  excellence  of  it — is  this  not  worse  than  to  commit  it  ? 
To  adore  the  demon,  or  love  evil,  the  abstract  or  the  concrete 
term  of  one  and  the  same  fact.  There  is  blindness  in  the  grati- 
fication of  instinct,  and  madness  in  the  perpetration  of  misdeeds  ; 
but  to  conceive  and  theorize  exacts  a  calm  operation  of  the 
mind  which  is  the  vice  supreme''^ 

Baudelaire  has  expressed  this  much  more  concisely  in  one 
single  verse:  'La   conscience  dans  le  MaV  ('consciousness   in 

evilO-t 

The  same  Villiers  de  I'lsle-Adam,  who  has  copied  his 
diabolism  from  Baudelaire,  has  appropriated  the  predilection  of 
the  latter  for  the  artificial,  and  has  raised  it  to  a  funny  pitch  in 
his  novel  U  live  future.  In  this  half-fantastic  half-satirical  and 
wholly  mad  book,  he  imagines,  as  the  next  development  of 
humanity,  a  state  in  which  the  woman  of  flesh  and  blood 
will  be  abolished,  and  be  replaced  by  a  machine  to  which  he 
allows  (which  is  a  little  contradictory)  the  shape  of  a  woman's 
body,  and  which  it  will  be  sufficient  with  the  help  of  a  screw  so  to 
dispose,  in  order  to  obtain  from  it  at  once  whatever  happens 
to  be  desired  :  love,  caprices,  infidelity,  devotion,  every  perver- 
sion and  every  vice.  This  is  in  sooth  even  more  artificial  than 
Baudelaire's  tin  and  glass  landscape  ! 

A  later  disciple,  M.  Joris  Karl  Huysmans,  is  more  instructive 
than  all  those  imitators  of  Baudelaire  who  have  only  developed 
the  one  or  the  other  side  of  him.  He  has  undertaken  the  toil- 
some task  of  putting  together,  from  all  the  isolated  traits  which 
are  found  dispersed  in  Baudelaire's  poems  and  prose  writings,  a 
human  figure,  and  of  presenting  to  us  Baudelairism  incarnate  and 

*  Josdphin  Peladan,  Vice  supreme.     Paris,  1882,  p.  169. 
■\  Les  Fleurs  du  Mai.,  p.  244  : 

*  Tete-k-tete  sombre  et  limpide 
Qu'un  cceur  devenu  son  miroir  t 
Puits  de  vdrit^,  clair  et  noir, 
Ou  tremble  une  dtoile  livide, 

'  Un  phare  ironique,  infernal, 
Flambeau  des  graces  sataniques, 
Soulagement  et  gioire  uniques, 
— La  conscience  dans  le  Mai !' 


EGO-MANIA  299 

living',  thinking  and  acting.  The  book  in  which  he  shows  us 
his  model  'Decadent'  is  entitled  A  Rebours  ('Against  the 
Grain  '). 

The  word  '  decadent '  was  borrowed  by  the  French  critics,  in 
the  fifties,  from  the  histoi:y  of  the  declining  Roman  Empire, 
to  characterize  the  style  of  Th^ophile  Gautier,  and  notably  of 
Baudelaire.  At  the  present  time  the  disciples  of  these  two 
writers,  and  of  their  previous  imitators,  claim  it  as  a  title  of 
honour.  Otherwise  than  with  the  expressions  '  pre-Raphaelites' 
and  '  Symbolists,'  we  possess  an  exact  explanation  of  the  sense 
which  those  who  speak  of  'decadence'  and  'decadents'  attach 
to  these  words. 

'  The  style  of  decadence,'  says  Theophile  Gautier,*  * ...  is 
nothing  else  than  art  arrived  at  that  extreme  point  of  maturity 
produced  by  those  civilizations  which  are  growing  old  with  their 
oblique  suns[!] — a  style  that  is  ingenious,  complicated,  learned, 
full  of  shades  of  meaning  and  research,  always  pushing  further 
the  limits  of  language,  borrowing  from  all  the  technical  voca- 
bularies, taking  colours  from  all  palettes,  notes  from  all  key- 
boards, forcing  itself  to  express  in  thought  that  which  is  most 
ineffable,  and  in  form  the  vaguest  and  most  fleeting  contours ; 
listening,  that  it  may  translate  them,  to  the  subtle  confidences 
of  the  neuropath,  to  the  avowals  of  ageing  and  depraved  passion, 
and  to  the  singular  hallucinations  of  the  fixed  idea  verging  on 
madness.  This  style  of  decadence  is  the  last  effort  of  the  Word 
(Verbe),  called  upon  to  express  everything,  and  pushed  to  the 
utmost  extremity.  We  may  remind  ourselves,  in  connection 
with  it,  of  the  language  of  the  Later  Roman  Empire,  already 
mottled  with  the  greenness  of  decomposition,  and,  as  it  were, 
gamy  {faisandee),  and  of  the  complicated  refinements  of  the 
Byzantine  school,  the  last  form  of  Greek  art  fallen  into  deli- 
quescence. Such  is  the  inevitable  and  fatal  idiom  of  peoples 
and  civilizations  where  factitious  life  has  replaced  the  natural 
life,  and  developed  in  man  unknown  wants.  Besides,  it  is  no 
easy  matter,  this  style  despised  of  pedants,  for  it  expresses  new 
ideas  with  new  forms  and  words  that  have  not  yet  been  heard. 
In  opposition  to  the  classic  style,  it  admits  of  shading,  and  these 
shadows  teem  and  swarm  with  the  larvee  of  superstitions,  the 
haggard  phantoms  of  insomnia,  nocturnal  terrors,  remorse  which 
starts  and  turns  back  at  the  slightest  noise,  monstrous  dreams 
stayed  only  by  impotence,  obscure  phantasies  at  which  the  day- 
light would  stand  amazed,  and  all  that  the  soul  conceals  of  the 
dark,  the  unformed,  and  the  vaguely  horrible,  in  its  deepest  and 
furthest  recesses.' 

The  same  ideas  that  Gautier  approximately  expresses  in  this 

*  Les  Fleurs  du  Mai,  pp.  17,  18.' 


300  DEGENERATION 

rigmarole,  Baudelaire  enumerates  in  these  terms  :  '  Does  it  not 
seem  to  the  reader,  as  it  does  to  me,  that  the  language  of  the  later 
Latin  decadence — the  departing  sigh  of  a  robust  person  already 
transformed  and  prepared  for  the  spiritual  life — is  singularly- 
appropriate  to  express  passion  as  it  has  been  understood  and  felt 
by  the  modern  poetic  world  ?  Mysticism  is  the  opposite  pole  of 
that  magnet  in  which  Catullus  and  his  followers,  brutal  and  purely 
epidermic  poets,  have  only  recognised  the  pole  of  sensuality.  In 
this  marvellous  language,  solecism  and  barbarism  appear  to  me 
to  convey  the  forced  negligences  of  a  passion  which  forgets 
itself  and  mocks  at  rules.  Words,  received  in  a  new  acceptation, 
display  the  charming  awkwardness  of  the  Northern  barbarian 
kneeling  before  the  Roman  beauty.  Even  a  play  on  words, 
when  it  enters  into  these  pedantic  stammerings,  does  it  not 
display  the  wild  and  bizarre  grace  of  infancy  ?'* 

The  reader,  who  has  the  chapter  on  the  psychology  of  mysti- 
cism present  to  his  mind,  naturally  at  once  recognises  what  is 
hidden  behind  the  word-wash  of  Gautier  and  Baudelaire.  Their 
description  of  the  state  of  mind  which  the  '  decadent '  language 
is  supposed  to  express  is  simply  a  description  of  the  disposi- 
tion of  the  mystically  degenerate  mind,  with  its  shifting  nebulous 
ideas,  its  fleeting  formless  shadowy  thought,  its  perversions  and 
aberrations,  its  tribulations  and  impulsions.  To  express  this 
state  of  mind,  a  new  and  unheard-of  language  must  in  fact  be 
found,  since  there  cannot  be  in  any  customary  language  designa- 
tions corresponding  to  presentations  which  in  reality  do  not 
exist.  It  is  absolutely  arbitrary  to  seek  for  an  example  and  a 
model  of  '  decadent '  expression  in  the  language  of  the  Later 
Roman  Empire.  It  would  be  difficult  for  Gautier  to  discover  in 
any  writer  whatever  of  the  fourth  or  fifth  century  the  '  mottled 
greenness  of  decomposition  and,  as  it  were,  gamy  '  Latin  which  so 
greatly  charms  him.  M.  Huysmans,  monstrously  exaggerating 
Gautier's  and  Baudelaire's  idea,  as  is  the  way  with  imitators, 
gives  the  following  description  of  this  supposed  Latin  of  the  fifth 
century:  'The  Latin  tongue,  .  .  .  now  hung  [!],  completely 
rotten,  .  .  .  losing  its  members,  dropping  suppurations,  scarcely 
preserving,  in  the  total  decay  of  its  body,  some  firm  parts  which 
the  Christians  detached  in  order  to  pickle  them  in  the  brine  of 
their  new  language.'t 

This  debauch  in  pathological  and  nauseous  ideas  of  a  deranged 
mind  with  gustatory  perversion  is  a  delirium,  and  has  no 
foundation  whatever  in  philological  facts.  The  Latin  of  the 
later  period  of  decadence  was  coarse  and  full  of  errors,  in  conse- 
quence of  the  increasing  barbarity  in  the  manners  and  taste  of 
the  readers,  the  narrow-mindedness  and  grammatical  ignorance 

*  Les  Fleurs  du  Mai,  pp.  17,  18. 

f  J.  K.  Huysmans,  A  Reboiirs.     4^6  mille.     Paris,  1892,  p.  49. 


EGO-MANIA  301 

of  the  writers,  and  the  intrusion  of  barbarous  elements  into  its 
vocabulary.  But  it  was  very  far  from  expressing  '  new  ideas 
with  new  forms'  and  from  taking  'colours  from  all  palettes';  it 
surprises  us,  on  the  contrary,  by  its  awkwardness  in  rendering 
the  most  simple  thoughts,  and  by  its  profound  impoverishment. 
The  German  language  has  also  had  a  similar  period  of  deca- 
dence. After  the  Thirty  Years'  War,  even  the  best  writers,  a 
Moscherosch,  a  Zinkgref,  a  Schupp,  were  '  often  almost  incom- 
prehensible '  with  '  their  long-winded  and  involved  periods,'  and 
'their  deportment  as  distorted  as  it  was  stiff';*  the  grammar 
displayed  the  worst  deformities,  the  vocabulary  swarmed  with 
strange  intruders,  but  the  German  of  those  desolate  decades  was 
surely  not  'decadent'  in  the  sense  of  Gautier's,  Baudelaire's  and 
Huysmans'  definitions.  The  truth  is,  that  these  degenerate 
writers  have  arbitrarily  attributed  their  own  state  of  mind  to  the 
authors  of  the  Roman  and  Byzantine  decadence,  to  a  Petronius, 
but  especially  to  a  Commodianus  of  Gaza,  an  Ausonius,  a 
Prudentius,  a  Sidonius  Apollinaris,  etc.,  and  have  created  in 
their  own  image,  or  according  to  their  morbid  instincts,  an  '  ideal 
man  of  the  Roman  decadence,'  just  as  Rousseau  invented  the 
ideal  savage  and  Chateaubriand  the  ideal  Indian,  and  have 
transported  him  by  their  own  imagination  into  a  fabulous  past 
or  into  a  distant  country.  M.  Paul  Bourget  is  more  honest 
when  he  refrains  from  fraudulently  quoting  the  Latin  authors  of 
the  Latin  decline,  and  thus  describes  the  'decadence,'  inde- 
pendently of  his  Parnassian  masters  :  '  The  word  "  decadence  " 
denotes  a  state  of  society  which  produces  too  great  a  number  of 
individuals  unfit  for  the  labours  of  common  life.  A  society 
ought  to  be  assimilated  to  an  organism.  As  an  organism,  in 
fact,  it  resolves  itself  into  a  federation  of  lesser  organisms,  which 
again  resolve  themselves  into  a  federation  of  cells.  The  indi- 
vidual is  the  social  cell.  In  order  that  the  whole  organism 
should  function  with  energy,  it  is  necessary  that  the  component 
organisms  should  function  with  energy,  but  with  a  subordinate 
energy.  And  in  order  that  these  inferior  organisms  should 
themselves  function  with  energy,  it  is  necessary  that  their  com- 
ponent cells  should  function  with  energy,  but  with  a  subordinate 
energy.  If  the  energy  of  the  cells  becomes  independent,  the 
organisms  composing  the  total  organism  cease  likewise  to  sub- 
ordinate their  energy  to  the  total  energy,  and  the  anarchy  which 
takes  place  constitutes  the  decadence  of  the  whole.'f 

Very  true.  A  society  in  decadence  '  produces  too  great  a 
number  of  individuals  unfit  for  the  labours  of  common   life '; 

*  Henri  Kurz,  in  his  introduction  to  the  '  Simplician '  writings  of  Grimmels- 
hausen.  Leipzig,  1863,  ist  part,  p.  li.  See  also  his  remarks  on  the  German 
of  Grimmelshausen  (author  of  Sniiplicisshnus),  p.  xlv.  et  seq. 

t  Paul  Bourget,  op.  cit.,  p.  24. 


302  DEGENERATION 

these  individuals  are  precisely  the  degenerate ;  *  they  cease  to 
subordinate  their  energy  to  the  total  energy,'  because  they  are 
ego-maniacs,  and  their  stunted  development  has  not  attained  to 
the  height  at  which  an  individual  reaches  his  moral  and  intellec- 
tual junction  with  the  totality,  and  their  ego-mania  makes  the 
degenerate  necessarily  anarchists,  i.e.,  enemies  of  all  institutions 
which  they  do  not  understand,  and  to  which  they  cannot  adapt 
themselves.  It  is  very  characteristic  that  M.  Bourget,  who  sees 
all  this,  who  recognises  that  'decadent'  is  synonymous  with 
inaptitude  for  regular  functions  and  subordination  to  social  aims, 
and  that  the  consequence  of  decadence  is  anarchy  and  the  ruin 
of  the  community,  does  not  the  less  justify  and  admire  the 
decadents,  especially  Baudelaire.  This  is  *  la  conscience  dans  le 
mal  '  of  which  his  master  speaks. 

We  will  now  examine  the  ideal  'decadent'  that  Huysmans 
draws  so  complacently  and  in  such  detail  for  us,  in  A  Rebours. 
First,  a  word  on  the  author  of  this  instructive  book.  Huysmans, 
the  classical  type  of  the  hysterical  mind  without  originality,  who 
is  the  predestined  victim  of  every  suggestion,  began  his  literary 
career  as  a  fanatical  imitator  of  Zola,  and  produced,  in  this  first 
period  of  his  development,  romances  and  novels  in  which  (as  in 
Marthe)  he  greatly  surpassed  his  model  in  obscenity.  Then  he 
swerved  from  naturalism,  by  an  abrupt  change  of  disposition, 
which  is  no  less  genuinely  hysterical,  overwhelmed  this  tendency 
and  Zola  himself  with  the  most  violent  abuse,  and  began  to  ape 
the  Diabolists,  particularly  Baudelaire.  A  red  thread  unites 
both  of  his  otherwise  abruptly  contrasted  methods,  viz.,  his 
lubricity.  That  has  remained  the  same.  He  is,  as  a  languish- 
ing *  Decadent,'  quite  as  vulgarly  obscene  as  when  he  was  a 
bestial  '  Naturalist.' 

A  Rebours  can  scarcely  be  called  a  novel,  and  Huysmans,  in 
fact,  does  not  call  it  so.  It  does  not  reveal  a  history,  it  has  no 
action,  but  presents  itself  as  a  sort  of  portrayal  or  biography  of 
a  man  whose  habits,  sympathies  and  antipathies,  and  ideas  on 
all  possible  subjects,  specially  on  art  and  literature,  are  related  to 
us  in  great  detail.  This  man  is  called  Des  Esseintes,  and  is  the 
last  scion  of  an  ancient  French  ducal  title. 

The  Duke  Jean  des  Esseintes  is  physically  an  anaemic  and 
nervous  man  of  weak  constitution,  the  inheritor  of  all  the  vices 
and  all  the  degeneracies  of  an  exhausted  race.  *  For  two  cen- 
turies the  Des  Esseintes  had  married  their  children  to  each 
other,  consuming  their  remnant  of  vigour  in  consanguineous 
unions.  .  .  .  The  predominance  of  lymph  in  the  blood  appeared.' 
(This  employment  of  technical  expressions  and  empty  phrases, 
scientific  in  sound,  is  peculiar  to  many  modern  degenerate 
authors  and  to  their  imitators.  They  sow  these  words  and 
expressions   around    them,  as   the '  learned   valet '    of  a   well- 


EGO-MANIA  303 

known  German  farce  scatters  around  him  his  scraps  of  French, 
but  without  being  more  cognizant  of  science  than  the  latter  was 
of  the  French  language.)  Des  Esseintes  was  educated  by  the 
Jesuits,  lost  his  parents  early  in  life,  squandered  the  greater  part 
of  his  patrimony  in  foolish  carousing  which  overwhelmed  him 
with  ennui,  and  soon  retired  from  society,  which  had  become 
insupportable.  '  His  contempt  for  humanity  increased  ;  he 
understood  at  last  that  the  world  is  composed  for  the  most  part 
of  bullies  and  imbeciles.  He  had  certainly  no  hope  of  discover- 
ing in  others  the  same  aspirations  and  the  same  hatreds,  no  hope 
of  uniting  himself  with  a  kindred  spirit  delighting  in  a  diligent 
decrepitude  [!]  as  he  did.  Enervated,  moody,  exasperated  by 
the  inanity  of  interchanged  and  accepted  ideas,  he  became  like 
a  person  aching  all  over,  till  at  last  he  was  constantly  ex- 
coriating his  epidermis,  and  suffering  from  the  patriotic  and 
social  nonsense  which  was  dealt  out  each  morning  in  the  news- 
papers. .  .  .  He  dreamed  of  a  refined  Thebaid,  of  a  comfortable 
desert,  a  warm  and  unmoving  ark,  where  he  would  take  refuge 
far  from  the  incessant  flood  of  human  stupidity.' 

He  realizes  this  dream.  He  sells  his  possessions,  buys  Govern- 
ment stock  with  the  ruins  of  his  fortune,  draws  in  this  way  an 
annual  income  of  fifty  thousand  francs,  buys  himself  a  house 
which  stands  alone  on  a  hill  at  some  distance  from  a  small 
village  near  Paris,  and  arranges  it  according  to  his  own  taste. 

'The  artificial  appeared  to  Des  Esseintes  as  the  distinguishing 
mark  of  human  genius.  As  he  expressed  it,  the  day  of  nature 
is  past :  by  the  disgusting  uniformity  of  its  landscapes  and  skies, 
it  has  positively  exhausted  the  attentive  patience  of  refined 
spirits.  In  sooth,  what  platitude  of  a  specialist  who  sees  no 
further  than  his  own  line!  what  pettiness  of  a  tradeswoman 
keeping  this  or  that  article  to  the  exclusion  of  every  other ! 
what  a  monotonous  stock  of  meadows  and  trees !  what  a  common- 
place agency  for  mountains  and  seas!'  (p.  31). 

He  banishes,  in  consequence,  all  that  is  natural  from  his 
horizon,  and  surrounds  himself  by  all  that  is  aitificial.  He  sleeps 
during  the  day,  and  only  leaves  his  bed  towards  evening,  in 
order  to  pass  the  night  in  reading  and  musing  in  his  brightly- 
lit  ground-floor.  He  never  crosses  the  threshold  of  his  house, 
but  remains  within  his  four  walls.  He  will  see  no  one,  and  even 
the  old  couple  who  wait  on  him  must  do  their  work  while  he  is 
asleep,  so  as  not  to  be  seen  by  him.  He  receives  neither  letters 
nor  papers,  knows  nothing  of  the  outer  world.  He  never  has  an 
appetite,  and  when  by  chance  this  is  aroused,  'he  dips  his  roast 
meat,  covered  with  some  extraordinary  butter,  into  a  cup*  of  tea 
[oh,  the  devil !],  a  faultless  mixture  of  Si-a-Fayun,  Mo-yu-tan 
and  Khansky,  yellow  teas  brought  from  China  and  Russia  by 
special  caravans'  (p.  61). 


304  DEGENERATION 

His  dining-room  'resembled  a  ship's  cabin,'  with  'its  little 
French  window  opening  in  the  wainscot  like  a  port-hole.'  It 
was  built  within  a  larger  room  pierced  by  two  windows,  one  o 
which  was  exactly  opposite  the  port-hole  in  the  wainscot.  A 
large  aquarium  occupied  the  whole  space  between  the  port-hole 
and  this  window.  In  order,  then,  to  give  light  to  the  cabin,  the 
daylight  had  to  pass  through  the  window,  the  panes  of  which 
had  been  replaced  by  plate  glass,  and  then  through  the  water 
'  Sometimes,  in  the  afternoon,  when  by  chance  Des  Esseintes 
was  awake  and  up,  he  set  in  motion  the  play  of  the  pipes  and 
conduits  which  emptied  the  aquarium  and  filled  it  afresh  with 
pure  water,  introducing  into  it  drops  of  coloured  essences,  thus 
producing  for  himself  at  pleasure  the  green  or  muddy  yellow, 
opalescent  or  silver,  tones  of  a  real  river,  according  to  the  colour 
of  the  sky,  the  greater  or  less  heat  of  the  sun,  the  more  or  less 
decided  indications  of  rain  ;  in  a  word,  according  to  the  season 
and  the  weather.  He  would  then  imagine  himself  to  be  between- 
decks  on  a  brig,  and  contemplated  with  curiosity  marvellous 
mechanical  fish,  constructed  with  clock-work,  which  passed 
before  the  window  of  the  port-hole,  and  clung  to  the  sham  weeds, 
or  else,  while  breathing  the  smell  of  the  tar  with  which  the 
room  had  been  filled  before  he  entered,  he  examined  the  coloured 
engravings  hung  on  the  walls  representing  steamers  sailing  for 
Valparaiso  and  La  Plata,  such  as  are  seen  at  steamship  agencies, 
and  at  Lloyd's '  (p.  27). 

These  mechanical  fish  are  decidedly  more  remarkable  than 
Baudelaire's  landscapes  in  tin.  But  this  dream  of  an  ironmonger, 
retired  from  business  and  become  an  idiot,  was  not  the  only 
pleasure  of  the  Due  des  Esseintes,  who  despised  so  deeply  the 
*  stupidity  and  vulgarity  of  men,'  although,  of  all  his  acquaintance, 
probably  not  one  would  have  stooped  to  ideas  so  asinine  as 
these  mechanical  fish  with  clock-work  movements.  When  he 
wishes  to  do  himself  a  particularly  good  turn,  he  composes  and 
plays  a  gustatory  symphony.  He  has  had  a  cupboard  constructed 
containing  a  series  of  little  liqueur  barrels.  The  taps  of  all  the 
barrels  could  be  opened  or  shut  simultaneously  by  an  engine  set 
in  motion  by  pressure  on  a  knob  in  the  wainscot,  and  under 
every  tap  stood  an  'imperceptible'  goblet,  into  which,  on  the 
turning  of  the  cock,  a  drop  fell.  Des  Esseintes  called  this  liquor- 
cupboard  his  '  mouth  organ.'  (Notice  all  these  ridiculous  com- 
plications to  mix  a  variety  of  liqueurs  !  As  if  it  required  all  this 
deeply  thought  out  mechanism  I)  '  The  organ  was  then  open. 
The  stops  labelled  "  flute,  horn,  voix  celeste,"  were  drawn  out 
ready  for  action.  Des  Esseintes  drank  a  drop  here  and  there, 
played  internal  symphonies,  and  succeeded  in  procuring  in  the 
throat  sensations  analogous  to  those  that  music  offers  to  the  ear. 
Each  liqueur  corresponded  in  taste,  according  to  him,  to  the 


EGO-MANIA  305 

sound  of  an  instrument.  Dry  curagoa,  for  example,  to  the 
clarionet,  the  tone  of  which  is  acescent  and  velvety  ;  kiimmel 
brandy  to  the  oboe,  with  its  sonorous  nasal  sound  ;  mint  and 
anisette  to  the  flute,  which  is  at  the  same  time  sugary  and  peppery, 
squeaking-  and  sweet ;  while,  to  complete  the  orchestra,  kirsch 
rages  with  the  blast  of  a  trumpet;  gin  and  whisky  scarify  the 
palate  with  their  shrill  outbursts  of  cornets  and  trombones  ; 
liqueur  -  brandy  fulminates  with  the  deafening  crash  of  the 
tuba ;  while  Chios-raki  and  mastic  roll  on  to  the  mucous 
membrane  like  the  thunder-claps  of  cymbals  and  kettledrums 
struck  with  the  arm!'  Thus  he  plays  'string  quartettes  under 
the  vault  of  his  palate,  representing  with  the  violin  old  eau-de- 
vie,  smoky  and  subtle,  sharp  and  delicate;  with  the  tenor 
simulated  by  strong  rum;'  with  vespetro  as  violoncello,  and 
bitters  as  double  bass  ;  green  chartreuse  was  the  major,  and  bene- 
dictine  the  minor  key,'  etc.  (p.  63). 

Des  Esseintes  does  not  only  hear  the  music  of  the  liqueurs  : 
he  sniffs  also  the  colour  of  perfumes.  As  he  has  a  mouth  organ, 
he  possesses  a  nasal  picture-gallery,  i.e.,  a  large  collection  of  flasks 
containing  all  possible  odorous  substances.  When  his  taste- 
symphonies  no  longer  give  him  pleasure,  he  plays  an  olfactory 
tune.  '  Seated  in  his  dressing-room  before  his  table  ...  a 
little  fever  disturbed  him,  he  was  ready  for  work.  .  ,  .  With 
his  vaporizers  he  injected  into  the  room  an  essence  formed 
of  ambrosia,  Mitcham  lavender,  sweet  peas,  ess.  bouquet,  an 
essence  which,  when  it  is  distilled  by  an  artist,  deserves  the 
name  by  which  it  is  known,  viz.,  "  extract  of  flowery  meadow." 
Then,  in  this  meadow,  he  introduced  an  exact  fusion  of  tuberose, 
of  orange  and  almond  flower,  and  forthwith  artificially-created 
lilacs  sprang  up,  while  limes  winnowed  each  other,  pouring  down 
upon  the  earth  their  pale  emanations.  Into  this  decoration,  laid 
on  in  broad  outlines  ...  he  blew  ...  a  light  rain  of  human 
and  quasi-feline  essences,  savouring  of  skirts,  and  indicating  the 
powdered  and  painted  woman,  the  stephanotis,  ayapana, 
opoponax,  cypress,  champak,  and  sarcanthus :  on  which  he 
juxtaposed  a  suspicion  of  syringa,  in  order  to  instil  into  the 
factitious  atmosphere  which  emanated  from  them  a  natural 
bloom  of  laughter  bathed  in  sweat  (!!),  and  of  joys  which  riot 
boisterously  in  full  sunshine'  (pp.  154-157). 

We  have  seen  how  slavishly  M.  Huysmans,  in  his  drivel  about 
tea,  liqueurs  and  perfumes,  follows  to  the  letter  the  fundamental 
principle  of  the  Parnassians — of  ransacking  technical  dictionaries. 
He  has  evidently  been  forced  to  copy  the  catalogues  of  com- 
mercial travellers  dealing  in  perfumes  and  soaps,  teas  and 
liqueurs,  to  scrape  together  his  erudition  in  current  prices. 

That  Des  Esseintes  should  be  made  ill  by  this  mode  of  life  is 
not  surprising.     His  stomach  rejects  all  forms  of  food,  and  this 


3o6  DEGENERATION 

renders  the  highest  triumph  of  his  love  for  the  artificial  possible  : 
he  is  obliged  to  be  nourished  by  means  of  peptonized  injections, 
hence,  in  a  way,  diametrically  opposed  to  nature. 

Not  to  be  too  prolix,  I  omit  many  details,  e.g.^  an  endless 
description  of  tones  associated  with  colours  (pp.  17-20)  ;  of 
orchids  which  he  loves,  because  they  have  for  him  the  appear- 
ance of  eruptions,  scars,  scabs,  ulcers  and  cancers,  and  seem 
covered  with  dressings,  plastered  with  black  mercurial  axunge, 
green  belladonna  unguents  (p.  120  et  seg)  ;  an  exposition  of  the 
mystical  aspect  of  precious  and  half-precious  stones  (pp.  57-6o)> 
etc.  We  will  only  acquaint  ourselves  with  a  few  more  pecu- 
liarities of  taste  in  this  decadent  type  : 

'  The  wild  spirit,  the  rough,  careless  talent  of  Goya  captivated 
him;  but  the  universal  admiration  which  Goya's  works  had 
gained  deterred  him  somewhat,  and  for  many  years  he  had 
ceased  having  them  framed.  .  .  .  Indeed,  if  the  finest  tune  in 
the  world  becomes  vulgar,  insupportable,  as  soon  as  the  public 
hum  it  and  barrel-organs  seize  upon  it,  the  work  of  art  to  which 
false  artists  are  not  indifferent,  which  is  not  disputed  by  fools, 
which  is  not  content  with  stirring  up  the  enthusiasm  of  some, 
even  it  becomes,  by  this  very  means,  for  the  initiated  polluted, 
commonplace  and  almost  repulsive  '  (p.  134). 

The  reference  to  barrel-organs  is  a  trick  calculated  to  mislead 
the  inattentive  reader.  If  a  beautiful  tune  becomes  insupport- 
able as  played  on  barrel-organs,  it  is  because  the  organs  are 
false,  noisy  and  expressionless,  i.e.,  they  modify  the  very  essence 
of  the  tune  and  drag  it  down  to  vulgarity;  but  the  admiration 
of  the  greatest  fool  himself  changes  absolutely  nothing  in  a  work 
of  art,  and  those  who  have  loved  it  for  its  qualities  will  again 
find  all  these  qualities  complete  and  intact,  even  when  the  looks 
of  millions  of  impassive  Philistines  have  crawled  over  it.  The 
truth  is,  the  decadent,  bursting  with  silly  vanity,  here  betrays 
involuntarily  his  inmost  self.  The  fellow  has  not,  in  fact,  the 
smallest  comprehension  of  art,  and  is  wholly  inaccessible  to  the 
beautiful  as  to  all  external  impressions.  To  know  if  a  work  of 
art  pleases  him  or  not,  he  does  not  look  at  the  work  of  art — oh 
no !  he  turns  his  back  and  anxiously  studies  the  demeanour  of 
the  people  standing  before  it.  Are  they  enthusiastic,  the  decadent 
despises  the  work  ;  do  they  remain  indifferent,  or  even  appear 
displeased,  he  admires  it  with  full  conviction.  The  ordinary  man 
always  seeks  to  think,  to  feel,  and  to  do  the  same  as  the  multi- 
tude ;  the  decadent  seeks  exactly  the  contrary.  Both  derive 
the  manner  of  seeing  and  feeling,  not  from  their  internal  convic- 
tions, but  from  what  the  crowd  dictate  to  them.  Both  lack  all 
individuality,  and  they  are  obliged  to  have  their  eyes  constantly 
fixed  on  the  crowd  to  find  their  way.  The  decadent  isj  therefore, 
an  ordinary  man  with  a  minus  sign,  who,  equally  with  the  latter, 


EGO-MANIA  307 

only  in  a  contrary  sense,  follows  in  the  wake  of  the  crowd,  and 
meanwhile  makes  things  far  more  difficult  for  himself  than  the 
ordinary  man  ;  he  is  also  constantly  in  a  state  of  irritation,  while 
the  latter  as  constantly  enjoys  himself.  This  can  be  summed  up 
in  one  proposition — the  decadent  snob  is  an  anti-social  Philistine, 
suffering  from  a  mania  for  contradiction,  without  the  smallest 
feeling  for  the  work  of  art  itself. 

Des  Esseintes  reads  occasionally  between  his  gustatory  and 
olfactory  seances.  The  only  works  which  please  him  are  natur- 
ally those  of  the  most  extreme  Parnassians  and  Symbolists.  For 
he  finds  in  them  (p.  266)  'the  death-struggle  of  the  old  language, 
after  it  had  become  ever  mouldier  from  century  to  century,  was 
ending  in  dissolution,  and  in  the  attainment  of  that  deliquescence 
of  the  Latin  language  which  gave  up  the  ghost  in  the  mysterious 
concepts  and  enigmatical  expressions  of  St.  Boniface  and  St. 
Adhelm.  Moreover,  the  decomposition  of  the  French  language 
had  set  in  all  at  once.  In  the  Latin  language  there  was  a  long 
transition,  a  lapse  of  400  years,  between  the  speckled  and 
beautiful  speech  of  Claudian  and  Rutilius,  and  the  gamy  speech 
of  the  eighth  century.  In  the  French  language  no  lapse  of  time, 
no  succession  in  age,  had  taken  place  ;  the  speckled  itachete)  and 
superb  style  of  the  brothers  De  Goncourt  and  the  gamy  style  of 
Verlaine  and  Mallarme  rubbed  elbows  in  Paris,  existing  at  the 
same  time  and  in  the  same  century.' 

We  now  know  the  taste  of  a  typical  decadent  in  all  directions. 
Let  us  cast  another  glance  at  his  character,  morals,  sentiments 
and  political  views. 

He  has  a  friend,  D'Aigurande,  who  one  day  thinks  of  marry- 
ing. *  Arguing  from  the  fact  that  D'Aigurande  possessed  no 
fortune,  and  that  the  dowry  of  his  wife  was  almost  nothing,  he 
(Des  Esseintes)  perceived  in  this  simple  desire  an  infinite  per- 
spective of  ridiculous  misfortunes.'  In  consequence  (!)  he  en- 
couraged his  friend  to  commit  this  folly,  and  what  had  to  happen 
did  happen  :  the  young  couple  lacked  money,  everything  became 
a  subject  for  altercations  and  quarrels  ;  in  short,  the  life  of  both 
became  insupportable.  He  amused  himself  out  of  doors  ;  she 
*  sought  by  the  expedients  of  adultery  to  forget  her  rainy  and 
dull  life.'  By  common  consent  they  cancelled  their  contract  and 
demanded  a  legal  separation.  '  My  plan  of  battle  was  exact, 
Des  Esseintes  then  said  to  himself,  experiencing  the  satisfaction 
of  those  strategists  who  see  their  long-foreseen  manoeuvres  suc- 
ceeding.' 

Another  time,  in  the  Rue  de  Rivoli,  he  comes  upon  a  boy  of 
about  sixteen  years  old,  a  *  pale,  cunning-looking '  child,  smoking 
a  bad  cigarette,  and  who  asks  him  for  a  light.  Des  Esseintes  offers 
him  Turkish  aromatic  cigarettes,  enters  into  conversation  with 
him,  learns  that  his  mother  is  dead,  that  his  father  beats  him, 


3o8  DEGENERATION 

and  that  he  works  for  a  cardboard-box  maker,  *  Des  Esseintes 
listened  thoughtfully.  "  Come  and  drink,"  said  he,  and  led  h»m 
into  a  cafe,  where  he  made  him  drink  some  very  strong  punch. 
The  child  drank  in  silence.  "Come,"  said  Des  Esseintes  suddenly, 
"do  you  feel  inclined  for  some  amusement  this  evening?  I  will 
treat  you."  '  And  he  leads  the  unfortunate  boy  into  a  disorderly 
house,  where  his  youth  and  nervousness  astonish  the  girls.  While 
one  of  these  women  draws  the  boy  away,  the  landlady  asks  Des 
Esseintes  what  was  his  idea  in  bringing  them  such  an  imp.  The 
decadent  answers  (p.  95)  :  '  I  am  simply  trying  to  train  an 
assassin.  This  boy  is  innocent,  and  has  reached  the  age  when 
the  blood  grows  hot ;  he  might  run  after  the  girls  in  his  quarter, 
remain  honest  while  amusing  himself.  .  .  .  Bringing  him  here, 
on  the  contrary,  into  the  midst  of  a  luxury  of  which  he  had  no 
conception,  and  which  will  engrave  itself  forcibly  on  his  memory, 
in  offering  him  every  fortnight  such  an  unexpected  treat,  he  will 
get  accustomed  to  these  pleasures  from  which  his  means  debar 
him.  Let  us  admit  that  it  will  require  three  months  for  them  to 
become  absolutely  necessary  to  him.  .  .  .  Well,  at  the  end  of 
three  months  I  discontinue  the  little  rente  which  I  am  going  to 
pay  you  in  advance  for  this  good  action,  and  then  he  will  steal 
in  order  to  live  here.  .  .  .  He  will  kill,  I  hope,  the  good  gentle- 
man who  will  appear  inopportunely  while  he  is  attempting  to 
break  open  his  writing-table.  Then  my  aim  will  be  attained  ;  I 
shall  have  contributed,  to  the  extent  of  my  resources,  in  creating 
a  villain,  one  more  enemy  of  that  hideous  society  which  fleeces 
us.'  And  he  leaves  the  poor  defiled  boy  on  this  first  evening 
with  these  words  :  '  Return  as  quickly  as  possible  to  your  father. 
.  .  .  Do  unto  others  what  you  would  not  wish  them  to  do  to 
you ;  with  this  rule  you  will  go  a  long  way.  Good-evening. 
Above  all,  don't  be  ungrateful.  Let  me  hear  of  you  as  soon  as 
possible  through  the  police  news.' 

He  sees  the  village  children  fighting  for  a  piece  of  black  bread 
covered  with  curd  cheese  ;  he  immediately  orders  for  himself  a 
similar  slice  of  bread,  and  says  to  his  servant  :  '  Throw  this 
bread  and  cheese  to  those  children  who  are  doing  for  each  other 
in  the  road.  Let  the  feeblest  be  crippled,  not  manage  to  get  a 
single  piece,  and,  besides,  be  well  whipped  by  their  parents 
when  they  return  home  with  torn  breeches  and  black  eyes  ;  that 
will  give  them  an  idea  of  the  life  that  awaits  them  '  (p.  226). 

When  he  thinks  of  society,  this  cry  bursts  from  his  breast : 
*  Oh,  perish,  society  !       Die,  old  world  !'  (p.  293). 

Lest  the  reader  should  feel  curious  as  to  the  course  of  Des 
Esseintes'  history,  let  us  add  that  a  serious  nervous  illness 
attacks  him  in  his  solitude,  and  that  his  doctor  imperiously 
orders  him  to  return  to  Paris  and  the  common  \\{q.  Huysmans,  in 
a  second  novel,  '  La-bas^  shows  us  what  Des  Esseintes  eventually 


EGO-MANIA 


309 


does  in  Paris.  He  writes  a  history  of  Gilles  de  Rais,  the  wholesale 
murderer  of  the  fifteenth  century,  to  whom  Moreau  de  Tours'  book 
(treating  of  sexual  aberrations)  has  unmistakably  called  the 
attention  of  the  Diabolist  band,  who  are  in  general  profoundly 
ignorant,  but  erudite  on  "  this  special  subject  of  erotomania. 
This  furnishes  M.  Huysmans  with  the  opportunity  of  burrow- 
ing and  sniffing  with  swinish  satisfaction  into  the  most  horrible 
filth.  Besides  this,  he  exhibits  in  this  book  the  mystic  side  of 
decadentism  ;  he  shows  us  Des  Esseintes  become  devout,  but 
going  at  the  same  time  to  the  '  black  mass  '  with  a  hysterical 
woman,  etc.  I  have  no  occasion  to  trouble  myself  with  this 
book,  as  repulsive  as  it  is  silly.  All  I  wished  was  to  show  the 
ideal  man  of  decadentism. 

We  have  him  now,  then,  the  '  super-man  '  {surhornme)  of 
whom  Baudelaire  and  his  disciples  dream,  and  whom  they  wish 
to  resemble:  physically,  ill  and  feeble;  morally,  an  arrant 
scoundrel  ;  intellectually,  an  unspeakable  idiot  who  passes  his 
whole  time  in  choosing  the  colours  of  stuffs  which  are  to 
drape  his  room  artistically,  in  observing  the  movements  of  me- 
chanical fishes,  in  sniffing  perfumes  and  sipping  liqueurs.  His 
raciest  notion  is  to  keep  awake  all  night  and  to  sleep  all  day, 
and  to  dip  his  meat  into  his  tea.  Love  and  friendship  are 
unknown  to  him.  His  artistic  sense  consists  in  watching  the 
attitude  of  people  before  some  work,  in  order  immediately  to 
assume  the  opposite  position.  His  complete  inadaptability 
reveals  itself  in  that  every  contact  with  the  world  and  men 
causes  him  pain.  He  naturally  throws  the  blame  of  his  dis- 
comfort on  his  fellow-creatures,  and  rails  at  them  like  a  fish- 
wife. He  classes  them  all  together  as  villains  and  blockheads, 
and  he  hurls  at  them  horrible  anarchical  maledictions.  The 
dunderhead  considers  himself  infinitely  superior  to  other  people, 
and  his  inconceivable  stupidity  only  equals  his  inflated  adoration 
of  himself.  He  possesses  an  income  of  50,000  francs,  and  must 
also  have  it,  for  such  a  pitiable  creature  would  not  be  in  a 
position  to  draw  one  sou  from  society,  or  one  grain  of  wheat 
from  nature.  A  parasite  of  the  lowest  grade  of  atavism,  a  sort 
of  human  sacculus,*  he  would  be  condemned,  if  he  were  poor, 
to  die  miserably  of  hunger  in  so  far  as  society,  in  misdirected 
charity,  did  not  assure  to  him  the  necessaries  of  life  in  an  idiot 
asylum. 

*  The  sacculus  is  a  cirripedia  which  lives  in  the  condition  of  a  parasite  in 
the  intestinal  canal  of  certain  Crustacea.  It  represents  the  deepest  retro- 
grade transformation  of  a  living  being  primarily  of  a  higher  organization. 
It  has  lost  all  its  differentiated  organs,  and  essentially  only  amounts  to  a 
vesicule  (hence  its  name;  little  bag),  which  fills  itself  with  juices  from  its 
host,  absorbed  by  the  parasite  with  the  help  of  certain  vessels,  which  it 
plunges  into  the  intestinal  walls  of  the  latter.  This  atrophied  creature  has 
retained  so  few  marks  of  an  independent  animal  that  it  was  looked  upon 
lor  a  long  time  as  a  diseased  excrescence  of  its  host's  intestines. 


3IO 


DEGENERATION 


If  M.  Huysmans  in  his  Des  Esseintes  has  shown  us  the 
Decadent  with  all  his  instincts  perverted,  i.e.,  the  complete 
Baudelairian  with  his  anti-naturalism,  his  aesthetic  folly  and  his 
anti-social  Diabolism,  another  representative  of  decadent  litera- 
ture, M.  Maurice  Barres,  is  the  incarnation  of  the  pure  ego-mania 
of  the  incapacity  of  adaptation  in  the  degenerate.  He  has  dedi- 
cated up  to  the  present  a  series  of  four  novels  to  the  cidte  du 
moi,  and  has  annotated,  besides,  an  edition  of  the  three  first  in  a 
brochure  much  more  valuable  for  our  inquiry  than  the  novels 
themselves,  inasmuch  as  all  the  sophisms  by  which  conscious- 
ness forces  itself  to  explain  a  posteriori  \h&  impulsions  of  morbid 
unconscious  life  appear  here  conveniently  summed  up  in  a  sort 
of  philosophical  system. 

A  few  words  on  M.  Maurice  Barres.  He  first  made  himself 
talked  of  by  defending,  in  the  Parisian  press,  his  friend  Cham- 
bige,  the  Algerian  homicide,  a  logical  cultivator  of  the  '  Ego.' 
Then  he  became  a  Boulangist  deputy,  and  later  he  canonized 
Marie  Bashkirtseff,  a  degenerate  girl  who  died  of  phthisis,  a 
victim  to  moral  madness,  with  a  touch  of  the  megalomania 
and  the  mania  of  persecution,  as  well  as  of  morbid  erotic  exalta- 
tion. He  invoked  her  as  'Our  Lady  of  the  wagon-lit'  {Notre 
Dame  du  Sleeping)^ 

His  novels.  Sous  V CEil  des  Barbares,  Un  Homme  libre,  Le 
Jardin  de  Berenice,  and  LEnnemi  des  Lois,  are  constructed  after 
the  artistic  formula  established  by  M.  Huysmans.  The  descrip- 
tion of  a  human  being,  with  his  intellectual  life,  and  his 
monotonous,  scarcely  modulated  external  destinies,  gives  the 
author  a  pretext  for  expressing  his  own  ideas  on  all  possible 
subjects  ;  on  Leonardo  da  Vinci  and  Venice  ;t  on  a  French 
provincial  museum  and  the  industrial  art  of  the  Middle  Ages  \\ 
on  Nero,§  Saint  Simon,  Fourier,  Marx,  and  Lassalle.||  Formerly 
it  was  the  custom  to  utilize  these  excursions  into  all  possible 
fields  of  discussion  as  articles  for  newspapers  or  monthly 
periodicals,  and  afterwards  to  collect  them  in  book  form.  But 
experience  has  taught  that  the  public  does  not  exhibit  much 
interest  in  these  collections  of  essays,  and  the  Decadents  have 
adopted  the  clever  ruse  of  connecting  them  by  means  of  a 
scarcely  perceptible  thread  of  narrative,  and  presenting  them  to 
their  readers  as  a  novel.  The  English  novelists  of  the  pre- 
ceding century,  then  Stendhal,  Jean  Paul  and  Goethe  himself, 
have  also  made  use  of  these  insertions  of  the  author's  personal 
reflections  in  the  course  of  the  story ;  but  with  them  (with  the 

*  Maurice  Barres,  Trois  Stations  de  Psycho  -  therapte,  Paris,  1892, 
'Deuxieme  Station.' 

f  Idid.,  Uji  Homme  libre.     36  edition.     Paris,  1892. 

X  Ibid.,  Le  Jardin  de  Berenice.     Paris,  1891,  p.  37  et  scq, 

§  Ibid.,  p.  245  et  seq. 

11  Ibid.,  L'Ennejni  des  Lois.     Paris,  1893,  pp.  63,  88,  170. 


EGO-MANIA  311 

exception,  perhaps,  of  Jean  Paul)  these  interpellations  were  at 
least  subordinated  to  the  work  of  art  as  a  whole.  It  was 
reserved  for  M.  Huysmans  and  his  school  to  give  them  the 
chief  place,  and  to  transform  the  novel  from  an  epic  poem  in 
prose  into  a  hybrid  mixture  of  Essais  of  Montaigne,  of  Parerga 
et  Paralipomena  of  Schopenhauer,  and  the  effusions  in  the  diary 
of  a  girl  at  a  boarding-school. 

M.  Barres  makes  it  no  secret  that  he  has  described  his  own  life 
in  his  novels,  and  that  he  considers  himself  a  typical  representa- 
tive of  a  species.  '  These  monographs  .  .  .  are,'  he  says,* '  a  com- 
munication of  a  type  of  young  man  already  frequently  met  with, 
and  which,  I  feel  sure,  will  become  still  more  numerous  among 
the  pupils  who  are  now  at  the  Lycee.  .  .  ,  These  books  .  .  . 
will  eventually  be  consulted  as  documents.' 

What  is  the  nature  of  this  type?  Let  us  answer  this  question 
in  the  author's  own  words.  The  hero  of  the  novels  is  'somewhat 
literary,  proud,  fastidious  and  desarmf  {Examen,  p.  1 1)  ;  'a  young 
bourgeois  grown  pale,  and  starving  for  all  pleasures'  (p.  26)  ; 
'  discouraged  by  contact  with  men '  (p.  34)  ;  he  is  one  of  those 
'who  find  themselves  in  a  sad  state  in  the  midst  of  the  order  of 
the  world  .  .  .  who  feel  themselves  weak  in  facing  life  '  (p.  45). 
Can  one  imagine  a  more  complete  description  of  the  degenerate 
incapable  of  adaptation,  badly  equipped  for  the  struggle  for 
existence,  and  for  this  reason  hating  and  fearing  the  world  and 
men,  but  shaken  at  the  same  time  by  morbid  desires  .-* 

This  poor  shattered  creature,  who  was  necessarily  rendered  an 
ego-maniac  by  the  weakness  of  will  in  his  imperfect  brain,  and 
the  perpetual  turmoil  of  his  unhealthy  organs,  raises  his  in- 
firmities to  the  dignity  of  a  system  which  he  proudly  proclaims. 
'  Let  us  keep  to  our  only  reality,  to  our  "  I  "  '  (p.  18).  'There  is 
only  one  thing  which  we  know  and  which  really  exists.  .  .  .  This 
sole  tangible  reality,  it  is  the  "  I,"  and  the  universe  is  only  a 
fresco  which  it  makes  beautiful  or  ugly.  Let  us  keep  to  our  "I." 
Let  us  protect  it  against  strangers,  against  Barbarians  '  (p.  45). 

What  does  he  mean  by  Barbarians  .'*  These  are  the  '  beings 
who  possess  a  dream  of  life  opposed  to  that  which  he  (the  hero 
of  one  of  his  books)  forms  of  it.  If  they  happen  to  be,  more- 
over,  highly  cultured,  they  are  strangers  and  adversaries  for  him.' 
A  young  man  '  obliged  by  circumstances  to  meet  persons  who 
are  not  of  his  patrie  psychique '  experiences  '  a  shock.'  '  Ah  ! 
what  matters  to  me  the  quality  of  a  soul  which  contradicts 
some  sensibility?  I  hate  these  strangers  who  impede,  or  turn 
aside  the  development  of  such  a  delicate  hesitating  and  self- 
searching  "  I,"  these  Barbarians  through  whom  more  than 
one  impressionable  young  man  will  both  fail  in  his  career  and 
not   find    his   joy  of    living'    (p.    23).      'Soldiers,  magistrates, 

*  Maurice  Barrfes,  Exanien  de  trois  Ideologies.     Paris,  1892,  p.  14. 


312  DEGENERATION 

moralists,  teachers,'  these  are  the  Barbarians  who  place  obstacles 
in  the  way  of  the  development  of  the  "  1  "  '  (p.  43).  In  one 
word,  the  '  I '  who  cannot  take  his  bearings  in  the  social  order 
regards  all  the  representatives  and  defenders  of  that  order  as 
his  enemies.  What  he  would  like  would  be  '  to  give  himself  up 
without  resistance  to  the  force  of  his  instincts '  (p.  25),  to  dis- 
tinguish *  where  lie  his  sincere  curiosity,  the  direction  of  his 
instinct,  and  his  truth'  (p.  47).  This  idea  of  setting  instinct, 
passion  and  the  unconscious  life  free  from  the  superintendence 
of  reason,  judgment  and  consciousness  recurs  hundreds  of  times 
in  the  author's  novels.  'Taste  takes  the  place  of  morality' 
{UEnnemi  des  Lois,  p.  3).  '  As  a  man,  and  a  free  man,  may  I 
accomplish  my  destiny,  respect  and  favour  my  interior  impulsion, 
without  taking  counsel  of  anything  outside  me'  (p.  22).  '  Society 
enclosed  by  a  line  of  demarcation  !  You  offer  slavery  to  who- 
ever does  not  conform  to  the  definitions  of  the  beautiful  and  the 
good  adopted  by  the  majority.  In  the  name  of  humanity,  as 
formerly  in  the  name  of  God  and  the  City,  what  crimes  are  devised 
against  the  individual !'  (p.  200).  *  The  inclinations  of  man  ought 
not  to  be  forced,  but  the  social  system  must  be  adapted  to 
them  '  (p.  97).  (It  would  be  very  much  more  simple  to  adapt 
the  inclinations  of  a  single  man  to  the  social  system  which  is  a 
law  to  millions  of  men,  but  this  does  not  seem  to  suggest  itself 
to  our  philosopher !) 

It  is  absolutely  logical  that  M.  Barres,  after  having  shown  us 
in  his  three  first  novels  or  ideologies  the  development  of  his 
'  cultivator  of  the  moi^  should  make  the  latter  become  an 
anarchist  and  an  ennemi  des  lots.  But  he  feels  himself  that  the 
objection  will  be  justly  raised,  that  society  cannot  exist  without 
a  law  and  an  order  of  some  sort,  and  he  seeks  to  forestall  this 
objection  by  asserting  that  everyone  knows  how  to  behave  him- 
self, that  instinct  is  good  and  infallible :  '  Do  you  not  feel,'  he 
says  (p.  177),  'that  our  instinct  has  profited  by  the  long 
apprenticeship  of  our  race  amid  codes  and  religions  ?'  He 
admits  then  that  'codes  and  religions'  have  their  use  and 
necessity,  but  only  at  a  primitive  period  of  human  history. 
When  the  instincts  were  still  wild,  bad  and  unreasonable,  they 
required  the  discipline  of  the  law.  But  now  they  are  so  perfect 
that  this  guide  and  master  is  no  longer  necessary  to  them.  But 
there  are  still  criminals.  What  is  to  be  done  with  them  ?  '  By 
stifling  them  with  kisses  and  providing  for  their  wants  they 
would  be  prevented  from  doing  any  harm.'  I  should  like  to  see 
M.  Barres  obliged  to  use  his  method  of  defence  against  a  night 
attack  of  garrotters  ! 

To  allow  one's  self  to  be  carried  away  by  instincts  is,  in  other 
words,  to  make  unconscious  life  the  master  of  consciousness, 
to    subordinate    the    highest    nervous    centres   to    the    inferior 


EGO-MANIA  313 

centres.  But  all  progress  rests  on  this,  that  the  highest 
centres  assume  more  and  more  authority  over  the  entire 
organism,  that  judgment  and  will  control  and  direct  tver  more 
strictly  the  instincts  and  passions,  that  consciousness  encroaches 
ever  further  on  the  domain  of  the  unconscious,  and  continually 
annexes  new  portions  of  the  latter.  Of  course,  instinct  expresses 
a  directly  felt  need,  the  satisfaction  of  which  procures  a  direct 
pleasure.  But  this  need  is  often  that  of  a  single  organ,  and  its 
satisfaction,  however  agreeable  to  the  organ  which  demands  it, 
may  be  pernicious,  and  even  fatal,  to  the  total  organism.  Then 
there  are  anti-social  instincts,  the  gratification  of  which  is  not 
directly  injurious  to  the  organism  itself,  it  is  true,  but  makes  life 
in  common  with  the  race  difficult  or  impossible,  worsening  con- 
sequently its  vital  conditions,  auJ  preparing  its  ruin  indirectly. 
Judgment  alone  is  fitted  to  oppose  these  instincts  by  the  repre- 
sentation of  the  needs  of  the  collective  organism  and  of  the 
race,  and  the  will  has  the  task  of  ensuring  the  victory  over 
suicidal  instinct  to  the  rational  representation.  Judgment 
may  be  deceived,  for  it  is  the  result  of  the  work  of  a  highly 
differentiated  and  delicate  instrument,  which,  like  all  fine  and 
complicated  machinery,  gets  out  of  order  more  easily  than  a 
simpler  and  rougher  tool.  Instinct,  the  inherited  and  organized 
experience  of  the  race,  is  as  a  rule  more  sure  and  reliable. 
This  must  certainly  be  admitted.  But  what  harm  is  done  if 
judgment  does  make  a  mistake  for  once  in  the  opposition 
which  it  offers  to  instinct?  The  organism  is,  as  a  rule,  only 
deprived  of  a  momentary  feeling  of  pleasure;  it  suffers  there- 
fore at  most  a  negative  loss  ;  the  will,  on  the  other  hand,  will 
have  made  an  effort,  and  acquired  strength  by  the  exercise, 
and  this  is  for  the  organism  a  positive  gain,  which  nearly  always 
at  least  balances  those  negative  losses. 

And  then  all  these  considerations  take  for  granted  the  perfect 
health  of  the  organism,  for  in  such  a  one  only  does  the  un- 
conscious work  as  normally  as  consciousness.  But  we  have 
seen  above  that  the  unconscious  itself  is  subject  to  disease  ;  it 
may  be  stupid,  obtuse  and  mad,  like  consciousness  ;  it  then 
ceases  completely  to  be  dependable  ;  then  the  instincts  are  as 
worthless  guides  as  are  the  blind  or  drunken  ;  then  the  organism, 
if  it  gives  itself  up  to  them,  must  stagger  to  ruin  and  death.  The 
only  thing  which  can  sometimes  save  it  in  this  case  is  the  constant, 
anxious,  tense  vigilance  of  the  judgment,  and  as  the  latter  is 
never  capable,  by  its  own  resources,  of  resisting  a  strong  flood  of 
revolted  and  riotous  instincts,  it  must  demand  reinforcements 
from  the  judgment  of  the  race,  i.e.,  from  some  law,  from  some 
recognised  morality. 

Such  is  the  foolish  aberration  of  the  '  cultivators  of  the  "  I.'" 
They  fall  into  the  same  errors  as  the  shallow  psychologists  of 


314  DEGENERATION 

the  eighteenth  century,  who  only  recognised  reason  ;  they  only 
see  one  portion  of  man's  mental  life,  i.e.,  his  unconscious  life ; 
they  wish  to  receive  their  law  only  from  instinct,  but  wholly 
neglect  to  notice  that  instinct  may  become  degenerate,  diseased, 
exhausted,  and  thereby  be  rendered  as  useless  for  legislative 
purposes  as  a  raving  lunatic  or  an  idiot. 

Besides,  M.  Barres  contradicts  his  own  theories  at  every  step. 
While  he  pretends  to  believe  that  instincts  are  always  good, 
he  depicts  many  of  his  heroines,  with  the  most  tender  expres- 
sions of  admiration,  as  veritable  moral  monsters.  The  '  little 
princess'  in  V Ennemi  des Lois  is  a  feminine  Des  Esseintes  :  she 
boasts  of  having  been,  as  a  child,  'the  scourge  of  the  house' 
(p.  146).  She  looks  upon  her  parents  as  her  *  enemies'  (p.  149). 
She  loves  children  '  less  than  dogs '  (p.  284).  Naturally,  she 
gives  herself  at  once  to  every  man  that  strikes  her  eye,  for, 
otherwise,  where  would  be  the  use  of  being  a  '  cultivator  of  the 
"  Ego,"  '  and  an  adept  at  the  law  of  instinct  ?  Such  are  the  good 
beings  of  M.  Barres,  who  no  longer  need  laws,  because  they 
have  '  profited  by  the  long  apprenticeship  of  our  race.' 

Yet  a  few  more  traits  to  complete  the  mental  portrait  of  this 
Decadent.  He  makes  his  '  little  princess  '  relate  :  '  When  I  was 
twelve  years  old,  I  loved,  as  soon  as  I  was  alone  in  the  country, 
to  take  off  my  shoes  and  stockings  and  plunge  my  bare  feet  into 
warm  mud.  I  passed  hours  in  this  way,  and  that  gave  me  a 
thrill  of  pleasure  through  all  my  body.'  M.  Barres  resembles  his 
heroine  ;  he  '  experiences  a  thrill  of  pleasure  through  all  his 
body  '  when  he  '  plunges  himself  into  warm  mud.' 

'  There  is  not  a  detail  in  the  biography  of  Berenice  which  is 
not  shocking ' — thus  begins  the  third  chapter  of  the  Jardin  de 
Berenice.  '  1,  however,  retain  of  it  none  but  very  delicate  sensa- 
tions.' This  Berenice  was  a  dancer  at  the  Eden  Theatre  in 
Paris,  whom  her  mother  and  elder  sister  had  sold  as  a  little  child 
to  some  old  criminals,  and  whom  a  lover  took  away  later  from 
the  prostitution  which  had  already  stained  her  infancy.  This 
lover  dies  and  leaves  her  a  considerable  fortune.  The  hero 
of  the  novel,  who  had  known  her  as  a  gutter-child,  meets 
her  at  Aries,  where  he  presents  himself  as  the  Boulangist 
candidate  for  the  Chamber,  and  he  resumes  his  ancient  re- 
lations with  her.  What  charms  him  most  in  their  inter- 
course, and  increases  his  pleasure  in  the  highest  degree,  is  the 
idea  of  the  intense  love  she  felt  for  her  dead  lover,  and  the 
abandonment  with  which  she  had  reposed  in  his  arms.  *  My 
Berenice,  who  still  bears  on  her  pale  lips  and  against  her 
dazzling  teeth  the  kisses  of  M.  de  Transe  [the  lover  in  question]. 
.  .  .  The  young  man  who  is  no  more  has  left  her  as  much  passion 
as  can  be  contained  in  a  woman's  heart'  (p.  138).  The  feeling 
which  M.  Barres  seeks  to  crown  with  the  help  of  inflated,  grandilo- 


EGO-MANIA  315 

quent  expressions  is  simply  the  well-known  excitement  that 
hoary  sinners  feel  at  the  sight  of  the  erotic  exploits  of  others. 
All  those  who  are  conversant  with  Parisian  life  know  what  is 
meant  in  Paris  by  a  voyeur,  or  pryer.  M.  Barres  reveals  himself 
here  as  a  metaphysical  voyeur.  And  yet  he  would  wish  to  make 
us  believe  that  his  little  street-walker,  whose  dirty  adventures 
he  describes  with  the  warmth  of  love  and  the  enthusiasm  of  a 
dilettante,  is  in  reality  a  symbol  ;  it  is  only  as  a  Symbolist  that  he 
claims  to  have  formed  her.  '  A  young  woman  is  seen  about  a 
young  man.  Is  it  not  rather  the  history  of  a  soul  with  its  two 
elements,  female  and  male  ?'  Or  is  it  by  the  side  of  the  '  I ' 
which  guards  itself,  wishes  to  know  and  establish  itself,  also  the 
imagination  in  a  young  and  sensitive  person,  for  the  taste 
pleasure  and  for  vagabondage  .''*  One  may  well  ask  him,  where  is 
the  '  symbolism  '  in  the  biographical  details  of  Petite  Secousse, 
the  name  that  he  gives  to  his  '  symbol.' 

Disease  and  corruption  exercise  the  customary  Baudelairian 
attraction  over  him.  '  When  Berenice  was  a  little  girl,'  he  says, 
in  VciQ  Jm^di7i  de  Be'rinice  (p.  72),  *  I  much  regretted  that  she  had 
not  some  physical  infirmity  ...  A  blemish  is  what  I  prefer 
above  everything  .  .  .  flatters  the  dearest  foibles  of  my  mind.' 
And  in  one  place  (p.  282)  an  engineer  is  scoffed  at  '  who  wishes 
to  substitute  some  pond  for  carp  for  our  marshes  full  of  beauti- 
ful fevers.' 

The  stigmata  of  degeneracy  known  as  zoophilia,  or  excessive 
love  for  animals,  is  strongly  shown  in  him.  When  he  wishes 
particularly  to  edify  himself  he  runs  'to  contemplate  the  beau- 
tiful eyes  of  the  seal,  and  to  distress  himself  over  the  mysterious 
sufferings  of  these  tender-hearted  animals  shown  in  their  basin, 
brothers  of  the  dogs  and  of  us.'f  The  only  educator  that 
M.  Barres  admits  is — the  dog.  'The  education  which  a  dog 
gives  is  indeed  excellent !  .  .  .  Our  collegians,  overloaded  with 
intellectual  acquisitions,  which  remain  in  them  as  notions,  not 
as  methods  of  feeling,  weighted  by  opinions  which  they  are 
unable  thoroughly  to  grasp,  would  learn  beautiful  ease  from  the 
dog,  the  gift  of  listening,  the  instinct  of  their  "  I."  '|  And  it 
must  not  be  imagined  that  in  such  passages  as  these  he  is 
quizzing  himself  or  mocking  the  Philistine  who  may  by  inadver- 
tence have  become  a  reader  of  the  book.  The  part  played  by 
two  dogs  in  the  novel  testifies  that  the  phrases  quoted  are  meant 
in  bitter  earnest. 

Like  all  the  truly  degenerate,  M.  Barres  reserves  for  the  hysterical 
and  the  demented  all  the  admiration  and  fraternal  love  which 
he  has  not  expended  on  seals  and  dogs.     We  have  already  men* 

*  Exanien  de  trots  Ideologies^  p.  36. 

t  Ibid.,  p.  46. 

%  LEnnemi  des  Lois,  p.  285. 


3i6  DEGENERATION 

tioned  his  enthusiastic  regard  for  poor  Marie  Basbkirtsefif.  His 
idea  of  Louis  II.  of  Bavaria  is  incomparable.  The  unfortunate 
King  is,  in  his  eyes,  an  insatisfait  {L' Ennemi  des  Lois,  p.  201) ;  he 
speaks  of  *  his  being  carried  away  beyond  his  native  surround- 
ings, his  ardent  desire  to  make  his  dream  tangible,  the  wrecking 
of  his  imagination  in  the  clumsiness  of  execution'  (p.  203). 
Louis  II.  is  'a  most  perfect  ethical  problem'  (p.  200).  'How 
could  this  brother  of  Parsifal,  so  pure,  so  simple,  who  set  the 
prompting  of  his  heart  in  opposition  to  all  human  laws — how 
could  he  suffer  a  foreign  will  to  interfere  in  his  life  .-'  And  it 
really  seems  that  to  have  drawn  Dr.  Gudden  under  water  was 
his  revenge  upon  a  barbarian  who  had  wished  to  impose  his  rule 
of  life  upon  him '  (p.  225).  It  is  in  such  phrases  that  M.  Barres 
characterizes  a  madman,  whose  mind  was  completely  darkened, 
and  who  for  years  was  incapable  of  a  single  reasonable  idea ! 
This  impudent  fashion  of  blinking  a  fact  which  boxed  his  ears 
on  both  sides;  this  incapacity  to  recognise  the  irrationality  in  the 
mental  life  of  an  invalid,  fallen  to  the  lowest  degree  of  insanity  ; 
this  obstinacy  in  explaining  the  craziest  deeds  as  deliberate, 
intentional,  philosophically  justified  and  full  of  deep  sense,  throw 
a  vivid  light  on  the  state  of  mind  in  the  Decadent.  How  could 
a  being  of  this  kind  discern  the  pathological  disturbance  of  his 
own  brain,  when  he  does  not  even  perceive  that  Louis  11.  was 
not  *  an  ethical  problem,'  but  an  ordinary  mad  patient,  such  as 
every  lunatic  asylum  of  any  size  contains  by  dozens  ? 

We  now  understand  the  philosophy  and  moral  doctrine  of 
the  Barres  type  of  the  '  cultivators  of  the  "I."'  Only  one  word 
more  on  their  conduct  in  practical  life.  The  hero  of  the  Jardin 
de  Berenice,  Philippe,  is  the  happy  guest  of  Petite  Secousse,  in 
the  house  which  her  last  lover  had  left  to  her.  After  some  time 
he  wearies  of  the  latter's  'educational  influence';  he  leaves  her, 
and  strongly  advises  her  to  marry  his  opponent  in  the  election 
— which  she  does.  '  The  enemy  of  the  laws,'  an  anarchist  of  the 
name  of  Andre  Maltere,  condemned  to  prison  for  several  months 
for  a  newspaper  article  eulogizing  a  dynamite  attempt,  has  be- 
come, by  his  trial,  a  celebrity  of  the  day.  A  very  rich  orphan 
offers  him  her  hand,  and  the  'little  princess'  her  love.  He 
marries  the  rich  girl,  whom  he  does  not  love,  and  continues  to 
love  the  '  little  princess,'  whom  he  does  not  marry.  P'or  this  is 
what  the  *  culture  of  his  "  I " '  exacts.  To  satisfy  his  aesthetic  incli- 
nations and  to  '  act '  by  word  and  pen,  he  must  have  money, 
and  to  relieve  the  needs  of  his  heart  he  must  have  the  '  little 
princess.'  After  some  months  of  marriage  he  finds  it  inconve- 
nient to  dissimulate  his  love  for  the  '  little  princess  '  before  his 
wife.  He  allows  her  then  to  guess  at  the  needs  of  his  heart. 
His  wife  understands  philosophy.  She  is  *  comprehensive.'  She 
goes   herself  to   the    '  little   princess,'   takes   her  to  the  noble 


EGO-MANIA  317 

anarchist,  and  from  this  moment  Maltere  lives  rich,  loved,  happy, 
and  satisfied  between  heiress  and  mistress,  as  becomes  a  superior 
nature.  M.  Barres  believes  he  has  here  created  '  a  rare  and 
exquisite  type.'  He  deceives  himself.  The  cultivators  of  the 
*  I,'  like  the  Boulangist  Philippe  and  the  anarchist  Andre,  meet 
by  thousands  in  all  large  towns,  only  the  police  know  them 
under  another  name.  They  call  them  souteneurs.  The  moral 
law  of  the  brave  anarchist  has  long  been  that  of  the  gilded  Paris 
prostitutes,  who  from  time  immemorial  have  kept  '  I'auiant  de 
cceur,'  at  the  same  time  as  the  'other,'  or  the  'others.' 

Decadentism  has  not  been  confined  to  France  alone ;  it  has 
also  established  a  school  in  England.  We  have  already  men- 
tioned, in  the  preceding  book,  one  of  the  earliest  and  most 
servile  imitators  of  Baudelaire — Swinburne.  I  had  to  class  him 
among  the  mystics,  for  the  degenerative  stigma  of  mysticism 
predominates  in  all  his  works.  He  has,  it  is  true,  been  train- 
bearer  to  so  many  models  that  he  may  be  ranked  among  the 
domestic  servants  of  a  great  number  of  masters  ;  but,  finally,  he 
will  be  assigned  a  place  where  he  has  served  longest,  and  that 
is  among  the  pre-Raphaelites.  From  Baudelaire  he  has 
borrowed  principally  diabolism  and  Sadism,  unnatural  de- 
pravity, and  a  predilection  for  suffering,  disease  and  crime. 
The  ego-mania  of  decadentism,  its  love  of  the  artificial,  its 
aversion  to  nature,  and  to  all  forms  of  activity  and  movement, 
its  megalomaniacal  contempt  for  men  and  its  exaggeration  of  the 
importance  of  art,  have  found  their  English  representative 
among  the  '  Esthetes,'  the  chief  of  whom  is  Oscar  Wilde. 

Wilde  has  done  more  by  his  personal  eccentricities  than  by 
his  works.  Like  Barbey  d'Aurevilly,  whose  rose-coloured  silk 
hats  and  gold  lace  cravats  are  well  known,  and  like  his  disciple 
Josephin  Peladan,  who  walks  about  in  lace  frills  and  satin 
doublet,  Wilde  dresses  in  queer  costumes  which  recall  partly 
the  fashions  of  the  Middle  Ages,  partly  the  rococo  modes.  He 
pretends  to  have  abandoned  the  dress  of  the  present  time 
because  it  offends  his  sense  of  the  beautiful  ;  but  this  is  only  a 
pretext  in  which  probably  he  himself  does  not  believe.  What 
really  determines  his  actions  is  the  hysterical  craving  to  be 
noticed,  to  occupy  the  attention  of  the  world  with  himself,  to 
get  talked  about.  It  is  asserted  that  he  has  walked  down  Pall 
Mall  in  the  afternoon  dressed  in  doublet  and  breeches,  with  a 
picturesque  biretta  on  his  head,  and  a  sunflower  in  his  hand, 
the  quasi-heraldic  symbol  of  the  Esthetes.  This  anecdote  has 
been  reproduced  in  all  the  biographies  of  Wilde,  and  I  have 
nowhere  seen  it  denied.  But  is  a  promenade  with  a  sunflower 
in  the  hand  also  inspired  by  a  craving  for  the  beautiful  ? 

Phasemakers  are  perpetually  repeating  the  twaddle,  that  it  is 
a  proof  of  honourable  independence  to  follow  one's  own  taste 


3i8  DEGENERATION 

without  being  bound  down  to  the  regulation  costume  of  the 
Philistine  cattle,  and  to  choose  for  clothes  the  colours,  materials 
and  cut  which  appear  beautiful  to  one's  self,  no  matter  how 
much  they  may  differ  from  the  fashion  of  the  day.  The  answer 
to  this  cackle  should  be  that  it  is  above  all  a  sign  of  anti-social 
ego-mania  to  irritate  the  majority  unnecessarily,  only  to  gratify 
vanity,  or  an  ^sthetical  instinct  of  small  importance  and  easy  to 
control — such  as  is  always  done  when,  either  by  word  or  deed,  a 
man  places  himself  in  opposition  to  this  majority.  He  is 
obliged  to  repress  many  manifestations  of  opinions  and  desires 
out  of  regard  for  his  fellow-creatures  ;  to  make  him  understand 
this  is  the  aim  of  education,  and  he  who  has  not  learnt  to  impose 
some  restraint  upon  himself  in  order  not  to  shock  others  is  called 
by  malicious  Philistines,  not  an  ^Esthete,  but  a  blackguard. 

It  may  become  a  duty  to  combat  the  vulgar  herd  in  the  cause 
of  truth  and  knowledge  ;  but  to  a  serious  man  this  duty  will 
always  be  felt  as  a  painful  one.  He  will  never  fulfil  it  with  a  light 
heart,  and  he  will  examine  strictly  and  cautiously  if  it  be  really 
a  high  and  absolutely  imperative  law  which  forces  him  to  be 
disagreeable  to  the  majority  of  his  fellow-creatures.  Such  an 
action  is,  in  the  eyes  of  a  moral  and  sane  man,  a  kind  of  martyr- 
dom for  a  conviction,  to  carry  out  which  constitutes  a  vital 
necessity  ;  it  is  a  form,  and  not  an  easy  form,  of  self-sacrifice,  for 
it  means  the  renunciation  of  the  joy  which  the  consciousness  of 
sympathy  with  one's  fellow-creatures  gives,  and  it  exacts  the 
painful  overthrow  of  social  instincts,  which,  in  truth,  do  not 
exist  in  deranged  ego-maniacs,  but  are  very  strong  in  the 
normal  man. 

The  predilection  for  strange  costume  is  a  pathological  aberra- 
tion of  a  racial  instinct.  The  adornment  of  the  exterior  has  its 
origin  in  the  strong  desire  to  be  admired  by  others — primarily 
by  the  opposite  sex — to  be  recognised  by  them  as  especially 
well-shaped,  handsome,  youthful,  or  rich  and  powerful,  or  as  pre- 
eminent through  rank  or  merit.  It  is  practised,  then,  with  the 
object  of  producing  a  favourable  impression  on  others,  and  is  a 
result  of  thought  about  others,  of  preoccupation  with  the  race. 
If,  now,  this  adornment  be,  not  through  mis-judgment  but 
purposely,  of  a  character  to  cause  irritation  to  others,  or  lend  itself 
to  ridicule — in  other  words,  if  it  excites  disapproval  instead  of 
approbation — it  then  runs  exactly  counter  to  the  object  of  the  art 
of  dress,  and  evinces  a  perversion  of  the  instinct  of  vanity. 

The  pretence  of  a  sense  of  beauty  is  the  excuse  of  conscious- 
ness for  a  crank  of  the  conscious.  The  fool  who  masquerades 
in  Pall  Mall  does  not  see  himself,  and,  therefore,  does  not  enjoy 
the  beautiful  appearance  which  is  supposed  to  be  an  aesthetic 
necessity  for  him.  There  would  be  some  sense  in  his  conduct  if 
it  had  for  its  object  an  endeavour  to  cause  others  to  dress  in 
accordance   with   his  taste ;    for  them  he   sees,  and   they   can 


EGO-MANIA  319 

scandalize  him  by  the  ugh'ness,  and  charm  him  by  the  beauty,  of 
their  costume.  But  to  take  the  initiative  in  a  new  artistic  style 
in  dress  brings  the  innovator  not  one  hair's  breadth  nearer  his 
assumed  goal  of  aesthetic  satisfaction. 

When,  therefore,  an  Oscar  Wilde  goes  about  in  '  aesthetic 
costume'  arnong  gazing  Philistines,  exciting  either  their  ridicule 
or  their  wrath,  it  is  no  indication  of  independence  of  character, 
but  rather  from  a  purely  anti-socialistic,  ego-maniacal  reckless- 
ness and  hysterical  longing  to  make  a  sensation,  justified  by  no 
exalted  aim  ;  nor  is  it  from  a  strong  desire  for  beauty,  but  from 
a  malevolent  mania  for  contradiction. 

Be  that  as  it  may,  Wilde  obtained,  by  his  buffoon  mummery, 
a  notoriety  in  the  whole  Anglo-Saxon  world  that  his  poems  and 
dramas  would  never  have  acquired  for  him.  I  have  no  reason 
to  trouble  myself  about  these,  since  they  are  feeble  imitations 
of  Rossetti  and  Swinburne,  and  of  dreary  inanity.  His  prose 
essays,  on  the  contrary,  deserve  attention,  because  they  exhibit 
all  the  features  which  enable  us  to  recognise  in  the '  Esthete  '  the 
comrade  in  art  of  the  Decadent. 

Like  his  French  masters,  Oscar  Wilde  despises  Nature. 
*  Whatever  actually  occurs  is  spoiled  for  art.  All  bad  poetry 
springs  from  genuine  feeling.  To  be  natural  is  to  be  obvious, 
and  to  be  obvious  is  to  be  inartistic.'* 

He  is  a  '  cultivator  of  the  Ego,'  and  feels  deliciously  indignant 
at  the  fact  that  Nature  dares  to  be  indifferent  to  his  important 
person.  '  Nature  is  so  indifferent,  so  unappreciative.  Whenever 
I  am  walking  in  the  park  here,  I  always  feel  that  I  am  no  more 
to  her  than  the  cattle  that  browse  on  the  slope '  (p.  5). 

With  regard  to  himself  and  the  human  species,  he  shares  the 
opinion  of  Des  Esseintes.  '  Ah  !  don't  say  that  you  agree  with 
me.  When  people  agree  with  me  I  always  feel  that  I  must  be 
wrong'  (p.  202). 

His  ideal  of  life  is  inactivity.  '  It  is  only  the  Philistine  who 
seeks  to  estimate  a  personality  by  the  vulgar  test  of  production. 
This  young  dandy  sought  to  be  somebody  rather  than  to  do 
something '  (p.  65).  '  Society  often  forgives  the  criminal ;  it 
never  forgives  the  dreamer.  The  beautiful  sterile  emotions  that 
art  excites  in  us  are  hateful  in  its  eyes.  .  .  .  People  .  .  .  are  always 
coming  shamelessly  up  to  one  .  .  .  and  saying  in  a  loud,  sten- 
torian voice,  "  What  are  you  doing?"  whereas,  "  What  are  you 
thinking?"  is  the  only  question  that  any  civilized  being  should 
ever  be  allowed  to  whisper  to  another.  .  .  .  Contemplation  .  .  . 
in  the  opinion  of  the  highest  culture,  is  the  proper  occupation  of 
man.  ...  It  is  to  do  nothing  that  the  elect  exist.  Action  is 
limited  and  relative.  Unlimited  and  absolute  is  the  vision  of 
him  who  sits  at  ease  and  watches,  who  walks  in  loneliness  and 
dreams '  (pp.  1 66- 1 68).  '  The  sure  way  of  knowing  nothing  about 
*  Oscar  Wilde,  Intentions.     London,  1891,  p.  197. 


320  DEGENERATION 

life  is  to  try  to  make  one's  self  useful '  (p.  175).  *  From  time  to 
time  the  world  cries  out  against  some  charming  artistic  poet, 
because,  to  use  its  hackneyed  and  silly  phrase,  he  has  "  nothing 
to  say."  But  if  he  had  something  to  say,  he  would  probably  say 
it,  and  the  result  would  be  tedious.  It  is  just  because  he  has 
no  new  message  that  he  can  do  beautiful  work  '  (p.  197). 

Oscar  Wilde  apparently  admires  immorality,  sin  and  crime.  In 
a  very  affectionate  biographical  treatise  on  Thomas  Griffith  Wain- 
wright,  designer,  painter,  and  author,  and  the  murderer  of  several 
people,  he  says  :  '  He  was  a  forger  of  no  mean  or  ordinary  capa- 
bilities, and  as  a  subtle  and  secret  poisoner  almost  without  rival  in 
this  or  any  age.  This  remarkable  man,  so  powerful  with  "pen, 
pencil,  and  poison,"'  etc.  (p.  60).  'He  sought  to  find  expression 
by  pen  or  poison '  (p.  61).  *  When  a  friend  reproached  him  with 
the  murder  of  Helen  Abercrombie,  he  shrugged  his  shoulders 
and  said,  "Yes  ;  it  was  a  dreadful  thing  to  do,  but  she  had  very 
thick  ankles'"  (p.  S6).  '  His  crimes  seem  to  have  had  an  im- 
portant effect  upon  his  art.  They  gave  a  strong  personality  to 
his  style,  a  quality  that  his  early  work  certainly  lacked  '  (p.  88). 
'  There  is  no  sin  except  stupidity  '  (p.  210).  *  An  idea  that  is  not 
dangerous  is  unworthy  of  being  called  an  idea  at  all'  (p.  179). 

He  cultivates  incidentally  a  slight  mysticism  in  colours.  'He,' 
Wainwright,  '  had  that  curious  love  of  green  which  in  individuals 
is  always  the  sign  of  a  subtle,  artistic  temperament,  and  in  nations 
is  said  to  denote  a  laxity,  if  not  a  decadence  of  morals '  (p.  66). 

But  the  central  idea  of  his  tortuously  disdainful  prattling, 
pursuing  as  its  chief  aim  the  heckling  of  the  Philistine,  and 
laboriously  seeking  the  opposite  pole  to  sound  common-sense, 
is  the  glorification  of  art.  Wilde  sets  forth  in  the  following 
manner  the  system  of  the  '  Esthetes ' :  '  Briefly,  then,  their 
doctrines  are  these  :  Art  never  expresses  anything  but  itself. 
It  has  an  independent  life,  just  as  Thought  has,  and  develops 
purely  on  its  own  lines.  .  .  .  The  second  doctrine  is  this :  All 
bad  art  comes  from  returning  to  Life  and  Nature,  and  elevating 
them  into  ideals.  Life  and  Nature  may  sometimes  be  used  as 
part  of  Art's  rough  material,  but  before  they  are  of  any  real 
service  to  Art  they  must  be  translated  into  artistic  conventions. 
The  moment  Art  surrenders  its  imaginative  medium  [.-•]  it  sur- 
renders everything.  As  a  method  Realism  is  a  complete  failure, 
and  the  two  things  that  every  artist  should  avoid  are  modernity 
of  form  and  modernity  of  subject  matter.*     To  us  who  live  in 

*  Schiller  also  says  : 

'  Ewig  jung  is  nur  die  Phantasie  ; 
Was  sich  nie  und  nirgends  hat  begeben, 
Dds  allein  veraltet  nie.' — An  die  Freunde. 

*  Forever  young  is  fantasy  alone  ; 
That  which  nowhere  ever  has  existed,  ' 

That  alone  grows  never  old.' 


EGO-MANIA  321 

the  nineteenth  century,  any  century  is  a  suitable  subject  for  art 
except  our  own.  The  only  beautiful  things  are  the  things 
that  do  not  concern  us.  .  .  .  It  is  exactly  because  Hecuba  is 
nothing  to  us  that  her  sorrows  are  so  suitable  a  n:iotive  for  a 
tragedy.  .  .  .'*  (pp.  52  54).'  The  third  doctrine  is  that  Life 
imitates  Art  far  more  than  Art  imitates  Life.  This  results  not 
merely  from  Life's  imitative  instinct,  but  from  the  fact  that  the 
self-conscious  aim  of  Life  is  to  find  expression,  and  that  Art 
offers  it  certain  beautiful  forms  through  which  it  may  realize 
that  energy '  (p.  65). 

On  this  third  point — the  influence  of  art  on  life — Wilde  does 
not  refer  to  the  fact,  long  ago  established  by  me,  that  the 
reciprocal  relation  between  the  work  of  art  and  the  public 
consists  in  this,  that  the  former  exercises  suggestion  and  the 
latter  submits  to  it.-|-  What  he  actually  wished  to  say  was  that 
nature — not  civilized  men — develops  itself  in  the  direction  of 
forms  given  it  by  the  artist.  '  Where,  if  not  from  the  Impres- 
sionists, do  we  get  those  wonderful  brown  fogs  that  come 
creeping  down  our  streets,  blurring  the  gas-lamps  and  changing 
the  houses  into  monstrous  shadows  ?  To  whom,  if  not  to  them 
and  their  master,  do  we  owe  the  lovely  silver  mists  that  brood 
over  our  river,  and  turn  to  faint  forms  of  fading  grace  curved 
bridge  and  swaying  barge  ?  The  extraordinary  change  that  has 
taken  place  in  the  climate  of  London  during  the  last  ten  years 
is  entirely  due  to  this  particular  school  of  Art'  (p.  40).      If  he 

But  Schiller  did  not  mean  by  this  that  Art  should  disregard  truth  and  life, 
but  that  it  must  discriminate  between  what  is  essential,  and  consequently 
lasting,  in  the  phenomenon,  and  that  which  is  accidental,  and  therefore 
ephemeral. 

*  Compare  this  with  Kant's  Kritik  der  Urtheilskrafl  {herausgegebe7t  und 
erldntert  von  J.  H.  v.  Kirchmatm')  ;  Berlin,  1869,  p.  65  :  'All  interest  spoils 
the  judgment  in  matters  of  taste,  and  deprives  it  of  its  impartiality,  especially 
if  it  does  not,  as  rational  interest  does,  make  the  feeling  of  utility  piramount 
to  that  of  pleasure,  but  bases  it  upon  the  latter,  which  always  happens  in  an 
aesthetic  judgment  in  so  far  as  a  thing  causes  pleasure  or  pain.'  Modern 
psycho-physiology  has  recognised  this  notion  of  Kant's  as  erroneous,  and 
has  demonstrated  that  'the  feeling  of  pleasure'  in  itself  is  originally  a  feeling 
of  organic  'utility,'  and  that  'judgment  in  matters  of  taste'  does  not  exist  at 
all  without 'interest.'  Psycho-physiology  makes  use  of  the  terms  'organic 
tendency'  or  'proclivity,'  instead  of  'interest.'  Moreover  Wilde,  who  does 
not  mind  contradicting  his  own  loose  assertions,  says  (p.  186) :  '  A  critic 
cannot  be  fair  in  the  ordinary  sense  of  the  word.  It  is  only  about  things 
that  do  not  interest  one  that  one  can  give  a  really  unbiased  opinion,  which 
is  no  doubt  the  reason  why  an  unbiased  opinion  is  always  absolutely  value- 
less. The  man  who  sees  both  sides  of  a  question  is  a  man  who  sees  abso- 
lutely nothing  at  all.'  Hence  Hecuba  must  be  something  to  the  critic,  that 
he  may  be  able  to  criticise  at  all. 

\  See  in  my  Paradoxe  the  chapters  '  Inhalt  der  poetischen  Literatur '  and 
*Zur  Naturgeschichte  der  Liebe.' 


322  DEGENERATION 

simply  wished  to  affirm  that  formerly  fog  and  mist  were  not  felt 
to  be  beautiful,  and  that  the  artistic  rendering  of  them  first  drew  to 
them  the  attention  of  the  multitude,  nothing  could  be  said  in  con- 
tradiction ;  he  would  have  propounded  just  a  hackneyed  common- 
place with  misplaced  sententiousness.  He  asserts,  however,  that 
painters  have  changed  the  climate,  that  for  the  last  ten  years  there 
have  been  fogs  in  London,  because  the  Impressionists  have 
painted  fogs — a  statement  so  silly  as  to  require  no  refutation. 
It  is  sufficient  to  characterize  it  as  artistic  mysticism.  Lastly, 
Wilde  teaches  the  following  :  '  ^Esthetics  are  higher  than 
ethics.  They  belong  to  a  more  spiritual  sphere.  To  discern 
the  beauty  of  a  thing  is  the  finest  point  to  which  we  can 
arrive.  Even  a  colour-sense  is  more  important  in  the  develop- 
ment of  the  individual  than  a  sense  of  right  and  wrong' 
(pp.  2IO,  211). 

Thus  the  doctrine  of  the  '  Esthetes '  affirms,  with  the  Parnas- 
sians, that  the  work  of  art  is  its  own  aim  ;  with  the  Diabolists, 
that  it  need  not  be  moral — nay,  were  better  to  be  immoral ;  with 
the  Decadents,  that  it  is  to  avoid,  and  be  diametrically  opposed 
to,  the  natural  and  the  true  ;  and  with  all  these  schools  of  the 
ego-mania  of  degeneration,  that  art  is  the  highest  of  all  human 
functions. 

Here  is  the  place  to  demonstrate  the  absurdity  of  these 
propositions.  This  can,  of  course,  be  done  only  in  the  concisest 
manner.  For  to  treat  fully  of  the  relation  of  the  beautiful  to 
morals  and  truth  to  Nature,  of  the  conception  of  aim  in  artistic 
beauty,  and  of  the  rank  held  by  art  among  mental  functions,  it 
would  be  necessary  to  expound  the  whole  science  of  aesthetics,  on 
which  the  somewhat  exhaustive  text-books  amount  to  a  con- 
siderable number  of  volumes  ;  and  this  cannot  be  my  purpose 
in  this  place.  Hence  I  shall  of  necessity  only  recapitulate  the 
latest  results  in  a  series  of  the  clearest  and  most  obvious 
deductions  possible,  which  the  attentive  reader  will  be  able 
without  difficulty  to  develop  by  his  own  reflection. 

The  '  bonzes '  of  art,  who  proclaim  the  doctrine  of  '  art  for 
art's  sake,'  look  down  with  contempt  upon  those  who  deny 
their  dogma,  affirming  that  the  heretics  who  ascribe  to  works 
of  art  any  aim  whatsoever  can  be  only  pachydermatous  Philistines, 
whose  comprehension  is  limited  to  beans  and  bacon,  or  stock- 
jobbers with  whom  it  is  only  a  question  of  profit,  or  sanc- 
timonious parsons  making  a  professional  pretence  of  virtue. 
They  believe  that  they  are  supported  in  this  by  such  men  as 
Kant,  Lessing,  etc.,  who  were  likewise  of  the  opinion  that  the 
work  of  art  had  but  one  task  to  perform — that  of  being  beautiful. 
We  need  not  be  overawed  by  the  great  names  of  these  guarantors. 
Their  opinion  cannot  withstand  the  criticism  to  which  it  has 
been  subjected  during  the  last  hundred  years  by  a  great  number 


EGO-MANIA 


323 


of  philosophers  (I  name  only  FIchte,  Hegel  and  Vischer),  and 
its  inadequacy  follows  from  the  fact,  among  others,  that  it 
allows  absolutely  no  place  for  the  ugly  as  an  object  of  artistic 
representation. 

Let  us  remind  ourselves  how  works  of  art  and  art  in  general 
originated. 

That  plastic  art  originally  sprang  from  the  imitation  of  Nature 
is  a  commonplace,  open  justly  to  the  reproach  that  it  does  not 
enter  deeply  enough  into  the  question.  Imitation  is  without 
doubt  one  of  the  first  and  most  general  reactions  of  the 
developed  living  being  upon  the  impressions  it  receives  from 
the  external  world.  This  is  a  necessary  consequence  of  the 
mechanism  of  the  higher  activity  of  the  nervous  system.  Every 
compound  movement  must  be  preceded  by  the  representation 
of  this  movement,  and,  conversely,  no  representation  of  move- 
ment can  be  elaborated  without  at  least  a  faint  and  hinted 
accomplishment  of  the  corresponding  movement  by  the  muscles. 
Upon  this  principle  depends,  for  example,  the  well-known 
'thought-reading.'  As  often,  therefore,  as  a  being  (whose 
nervous  system  is  developed  highly  enough  to  raise  perceptions 
to  the  rank  of  representations)  acquires  knowledge,  i.e.,  forms 
for  itself  a  representation  of  any  phenomenon  whatever  com- 
prising in  itself  a  more  or  less  molar  form  of  movement 
(molecular  movements,  and,  a  fortiori,  vibrations  of  ether 
are  not  directly  recognised  as  changes  of  position  in  space),  it 
has  also  a  tendency  to  transform  the  representation  into  a 
movement  resembling  it,  and  hence  to  imitate  the  phenomenon, 
in  that  form,  naturally,  which,  with  its  means,  it  is  capable  of 
realizing.  If  every  representation  be  not  embodied  in  per- 
ceptible movement,  the  cause  is  to  be  traced  to  the  action  of 
the  inhibitive  mechanism  of  the  brain,  which  does  not  permit 
every  representation  at  once  to  set  the  muscles  into  activity. 
In  a  state  of  fatigue  inhibition  is  relaxed,  and,  in  fact,  all  sorts 
of  unintentional  imitations  make  their  appearance,  as,  for 
example,  symmetrical  movements,  such  as  the  left  hand  in- 
voluntarily and  aimlessly  makes  of  those  executed  by  the  right 
hand  in  writing,  etc.  There  is  also  a  rare  disease  of  the 
nerves*  hitherto  observed  chiefly  in  Russia,  and  especially  in 
Siberia,  there  called  myriacJiit,  in  which  inhibition  becomes 
comple'ely  disorganized,  so  that  the  diseased  persons  are  forced 
at  once  to  imitate  any  action  seen  by  them,  even  if  it  be 
disagreeable  or  pernicious  to  them.  If,  for  example,  they  see 
someone  fall,  they  are  compelled  to  throw  themselves  also  to 
the  ground,  even  if  they  are  standing  in  a  muddy  road. 

*  S.  A.  Tokarski's  article  on  '  Myriachit '  in  the  Neurologisches  Central' 
Blatt  for  November,  1890.  Tokarski  in  this  article  also  informs  us  that 
this  word  should  be  written  meriatsclienja,  and  not  inyriachit. 


324  DEGENERATION 

Except  in  disease  and  fatigue,  the  action  of  inhibition  is 
suspended  only  when  the  excitation  produced  in  the  nervous 
system  by  an  impression  is  strong  enough  to  vanquish  it.  If 
this  impression  is  disagreeable,  or  menacing,  the  movements 
set  loose  by  it  are  those  of  defence  or  flight.  If,  on  the 
contrary,  the  impression  is  pleasant,  or  if  it  is  surprising 
without  being  disquieting,  then  the  reaction  of  the  organism 
against  it  is  a  movement  without  objective  aim,  most  frequently 
a  movement  of  imitation.  Hence,  among  healthy  men  possessed 
of  well-working  inhibitory  mechanism  in  their  nervous  system, 
this  movement  does  not  appear  with  every  phenomenon,  but 
only  with  such  as  strike  it  forcibly,  fix  its  attention,  engage 
and  stimulate  it — in  a  word,  cause  an  emotion.  Activity  of 
imitation  (and  the  plastic  arts  are  at  bottom  nothing  but 
residuary  traces  of  imitative  movements)  has  consequently  an 
immediate  organic  aim,  viz.,  the  freeing  of  the  nervous  system 
from  an  excitation  set  up  in  it  by  some  visual  cause.  If 
the  excitation  is  not  caused  by  the  sight  of  any  external 
phenomenon,  but  by  an  internal  organic  state  {e.g.,  sexual 
erethism),  or  by  a  representation  of  an  abstract  nature  {e.g.,  the 
joy  of  victory,  sorrow,  or  longing),  it  likewise  transforms  itself, 
it  is  true,  into  movements  ;  but  these  are  naturally  not  imitative. 
They  embody  no  motor  representation,  but  are  in  part  such 
as  have  for  their  sole  end  the  relaxing  of  the  nerve-centres 
overcharged  with  motor  impulsions,  as  in  the  dance,  in  outcries, 
song  and  music,  and  in  part  such  as  disburden  the  centres  of 
ideation,  like  declamation,  lyric  and  epic  poetry.  If  artistic 
activity  is  frequently  exercised  and  facilitated  by  habit,  it  no 
longer  requires  emotions  of  extraordinary  strength  to  provoke 
it.  As  often,  then,  as  man  is  excited  by  such  external  or 
internal  impressions  as  demand  no  action  (conflict,  flight, 
adaptation),  but  reach  his  consciousness  in  the  form  of  a  mood, 
he  relieves  his  nervous  system  of  this  excitation  through  some 
kind  of  artistic  activity,  either  by  means  of  the  plastic  arts  or 
by  music  and  poetry. 

Hence  imitation  is  not  the  source  of  the  arts,  but  one  of  the 
media  of  art ;  the  real  source  of  art  is  emotion.  Artistic 
activity  is  not  its  own  end,  but  it  is  of  direct  utility  to  the 
artist  ;  it  satisfies  the  need  of  his  organism  to  transform  its 
emotions  into  movement.  He  creates  the  work  of  art,  not  for 
its  own  sake,  but  to  free  his  nervous  system  from  a  tension. 
The  expression,  which  has  become  a  commonplace,  is  psycho- 
physiologically  accurate,  viz.,  the  artist  writes,  paints,  sings, 
or  dances  the  burden  of  some  idea  or  feeling  off"  his  mind. 

To  this  primary  end  of  art — the  subjective  end  of  the  self- 
deliverance  of  the  artist — a  second  must  be  added,  viz.,  the 
objective  end  of  acting  upon  others.     Like  every  other  animal 


EGO-MANIA  325 

living  in  society  and  partly  dependent  upon  it,  man  has,  in  conse- 
quence of  his  racial  instinct,  the  aspiration  to  impart  his  own 
emotions  to  those  of  his  own  species,  just  as  he  himself  partici- 
pates in  the  emotions  of  those  of  his  own  species.  This  strong 
desire  to  know  himself  in  emotional  communion  with  the 
species  is  sympathy,  that  organic  base  of  the  social  edifice.* 
In  advanced  civilization,  where  the  original  natural  motives  of 
actions  are  partly  obscured  and  partly  replaced  by  artificial 
motives,  and  the  actions  themselves  receive  an  aim  other  than 
the  theoretical  one  proper  to  them,  the  artist  is,  it  is  true,  not 
limited  to  sharing  his  emotions  with  others,  but  creates  his  work 
of  art  with  the  accessory  purpose  of  becoming  famous — a  wish 
springing  none  the  less  from  social  instincts,  since  it  is  directed 
towards  obtaining  the  applause  of  his  fellow-creatures,  or  even 
of  earning  money,  a  motive  no  longer  social,  but  purely  egoistic. 
This  vulgarly  egoistic  motive  is  still  the  only  one  influencing 
the  countless  imitators  who  practise  art,  not  from  original 
strong  desire,  and  as  the  natural  and  necessary  mode  of 
expressing  their  emotions,  but  whose  artistic  activity  is  caused 
by  the  envy  with  which  they  regard  the  success  of  others  in 
art. 

Once  we  have  established,  as  a  fact,  that  art  is  not  practised 
for  its  own  sake  alone,  but  that  it  has  a  double  aim,  subjective 
and  objective,  viz.,  the  satisfaction  of  an  organic  want  of  the 
artist,  and  the  influencing  of  his  fellow-creatures,  then  the 
principles  by  which  every  other  human  activity  pursuing  the 
same  end  is  judged  are  applicable  to  it,  i.e.^  the  principles  of 
law  and  morality. 

We  test  every  organic  desire  to  see  whether  it  be  the  outcome 
of  a  legitimate  need  or  the  consequence  of  an  aberration ; 
whether  its  satisfaction  be  beneficial  or  pernicious  to  the 
organism.  We  distinguish  the  healthy  from  the  diseased 
impulse,  and  demand  that  the  latter  be  combated.  If  the 
desire  seeks  its  satisfaction  in  an  activity  acting  upon  others, 
then  we  examine  to  see  if  this  activity  is  reconcilable  with 
the  existence  and  prosperity  of  society,  or  dangerous  to  it. 
The  activity  imperilling  society  offends  against  law  and  custom, 
which  are  nothing  but  an  epitome  of  the  temporary  notions  of 
society  concerning  what  is  beneficial  and  what  is  pernicious 
to  it. 

Notions  healthy  and  diseased,  moral  and  immoral,  social  or 
anti-social,  are  as  valid  for  art  as  for  every  other  human 
activity,  and  there  is  not  a  scintilla  of  reason  for  regarding  a 

*  'Kdmnnd'R.CAa.Y,  HAliernative.  Contribution  d,  la  Psychologie.  Traduit 
de  P anglais  par  A.  Burdeaiij  Paris,  1886,  p.  234  :  '  Sympathy  is  an  emotion 
caused  in  us  by  that  which  seems  to  us  to  be  the  emotion  or  the  sensation  of 
others.' 


326  DEGENERATION 

work  of  art  in  any  other  light  than  that  in  which  we  view  every 
other  manifestation  of  an  individuaHty. 

It  is  easily  conceivable  that  the  emotion  expressed  by  the 
artist  in  his  work  may  proceed  from  a  morbid  aberration,  may 
be  directed,  in  an  unnatural,  sensual,  cruel  manner,  to  what  is 
ugly  or  loathsome.  Ought  we  not  in  this  case  to  condemn 
the  work  and,  if  possible,  to  suppress  it?  How  can  its  right  to 
exist  be  justified  ?  By  claiming  that  the  artist  was  sincere 
when  he  created  it,  that  he  gave  back  what  was  really  existing 
in  him,  and  for  that  reason  was  subjectively  justified  in  his 
artistic  expansion?  But  there  is  a  candour  which  is  wholly 
inadmissible.  The  dipsomaniac  and  clastomaniac  are  sincere 
when  they  respectively  drink  or  break  everything  within  reach. 
We  do  not,  however,  acknowledge  their  right  to  satisfy  their 
desire.  We  prevent  them  by  force.  We  put  them  under 
guardianship,  although  their  drunkenness  and  destructiveness 
may  perhaps  be  injurious  to  no  one  but  themselves.  And  still 
more  decidedly  does  society  oppose  itself  to  the  satisfaction  of 
those  cravings  which  cannot  be  appeased  without  violently 
acting  upon  others.  The  new  science  of  criminal  anthropology 
admits  without  dispute  that  homicidal  maniacs,  certain  incen- 
diaries, many  thieves  and  vagabonds,  act  under  an  impulsion  ; 
that  through  their  crimes  they  satisfy  an  organic  craving;  that 
they  outrage,  kill,  burn,  idle,  as  others  sit  down  to  dinner,  simply 
because  they  hunger  to  do  so  ;  but  in  spite  of  this  and  because 
of  this,  it  demands  that  the  appeasing  of  the  sincere  longings 
of  these  degenerate  creatures  be  prevented  by  all  means,  and, 
if  needs  be,  by  their  complete  suppression.  It  never  occurs  to 
us  to  permit  the  crim.nal  by  organic  disposition  to  'expand' 
his  individuality  in  crime,  and  just  as  little  can  it  be  expected 
of  us  to  permit  the  degenerate  artist  to  expand  his  individuality 
in  immoral  works  of  art.  The  artist  who  complacently  repre- 
sents what  is  reprehensible,  vicious,  criminal,  approves  of  it, 
perhaps  glorifies  it,  diff.  rs  not  in  kind,  but  only  in  degree,  from 
the  criminal  who  actually  commits  it.  It  is  a  question  of  the 
intensity  of  the  impulsion  and  the  resisting  power  of  the 
judgment,  perhaps  also  of  courage  and  cowardice  ;  nothing  else. 
If  the  actual  law  does  not  treat  the  criminal  by  intention  so 
rigorously  as  the  criminal  in  act,  it  is  because  criminal  law 
pursues  the  deed,  and  not  the  purpose;  the  objective  phe- 
nomenon, not  its  subjective  roots.  The  Middle  Ages  had  places 
of  sanctuary  where  criminals  could  not  be  molested  for  their 
misdemeanours.  Modern  law  has  done  away  with  this  institu- 
tion. Ought  art  to  be  at  present  the  last  asylum  to  which 
criminals  may  Hy  to  escape  punishment  ?  Are  they  to  be  able 
to  satisfy,  in  the  so-called  'temple'  of  art,  instincts  which  the 
policeman   prevents  them  from  appeasing  in  the  street .''     I  do 


EGO-MANIA  327 

not  see  how  a  privilege  so  inimical  to  society  can  be  willingly 
defended. 

I  am  far  from  sharing  Ruskin's  opinion  that  morality  alone, 
and  nothing  else,  can  be  demanded  of  a  work  of  art.  Morality 
alone  is  not  sufficient.  Otherwise  religious  tracts  would  be  the 
finest  literature,  and  the  well-known  coloured  casts  of  sacred 
subjects  turned  out  wholesale  in  Munich  factories  would  be  the 
choicest  sculpture.  Excellence  of  form  maintains  its  rights 
in  all  the  arts,  and  gives  to  the  finest  creation  its  artistic  value. 
Hence  the  work  need  not  be  moral.  More  accurately,  it  need 
not  be  designed  expressly  to  preach  virtue  and  the  fear  of  God, 
and  to  be  destined  for  the  edification  of  devotees.  But  between 
a  work  without  sanctified  aim  and  one  of  wilful  immorality 
there  is  a  world  of  difference.  A  work  which  is  indift'erent  from 
a  moral  point  of  view  will  not  be  equally  attractive  or  satisfying 
to  all  minds,  but  it  will  offend  and  repel  no  one.  An  explicitly 
immoral  work  excites  in  healthy  persons  the  same  feelings  of 
displeasure  and  disgust  as  the  immoral  act  itself,  and  the  form 
of  the  work  can  change  nothing  of  this.  Most  assuredly  morality 
alone  does  not  give  beauty  to  a  work  of  art.  But  beauty  with- 
out morality  is  impossible. 

We  now  come  to  the  second  argument  with  which  the 
Esthetes  wish  to  defend  the  right  of  the  artist  to  immorality. 
The  work  of  art,  they  say,  need  only  be  beautiful.  Beauty  lies 
in  the  form.  Hence  the  content  is  a  matter  of  indifference. 
This  may  be  vice  and  crime  ;  but  it  cannot  derogate  from  the 
excellences  of  form  if  these  be  present. 

He  alone  can  venture  to  advance  such  principles  who  is  with- 
out the  least  inkling  of  the  psycho-physiology  of  the  aesthetic 
feelings.  Everyone  who  has  studied  this  subject  in  the  least 
knows  that  two  kinds  of  the  beautiful  are  distinguished — the 
sensuously-beautiful  and  the  intellectually-beautiful.  We  feel 
those  phenomena  to  be  beautiful,  the  sense-perception  of  which 
is  accompanied  by  a  feeling  of  pleasure — e.g.,  a  particular  colour, 
perhaps  a  pure  red,  or  a  harmony ;  nay,  even  a  single  note  with 
its  severally  indistinguishable  but  synchronous  overtones.  The 
researches  of  Helmholtz*  and  Blaserna'f'  have  thrown  light  on 
the  cause  of  the  feeling  of  pleasure  connected  with  certain 
acoustic  perceptions,  while  those  of  BrUcke|  have  led  to  similar 
results  with  regard  to  the  mechanism  of  the  feelings  of  pleasure 
following  optical  impressions.     It  is  a  question  of  discernment  by 

*  'H&Xtah.oliz,  Die  Lehre  von  den  Tonemjindungen.  4Aufl.  Braunschweig, 
1877. 

t  Pietro  Blaserna,  Le  S071  et  la  Musique,  followed  by  Causes  physiohis^iques 
de  PHarmottie  musicale.,  \iAr  H.Hehwhohz.    4^  edition.     Paris,  1891. 

X  E.  Brijcke,  Bruchsiiuke  aus  der  Theorie  de7'  bildenden  Kiinste.  Leipzig, 
Intern,  wissensch.  Bibl.  (The  French  edition  of  Briicke's  works  contains 
also  Helmholiz's  UOptique  et  la  Peinliire.) 


328  DEGENERATION 

the  sensory  nerves  of  definite  simple  numerical  relations  in  the 
vibrations  of  matter  or  of  ether.  We  know  less  concerning  the 
causes  of  the  pleasures  connected  with  smell  and  touch  ;  yet 
here  also  it  seems  to  be  a  question  of  more  or  less  strong  im- 
pressions, hence  equally  of  quantities — i.e.,  of  numbers.  The 
ultimate  cause  of  all  these  feelings  is  that  certain  modes  of 
vibrations  are  in  accord  with  the  structure  of  the  nerves,  are  easy 
for  them  and  leave  them  in  order,  while  other  modes  disturb  the 
arrangement  of  the  nerve  particles,  often  costing  the  nerves  an 
effort,  often  dangerous  to  their  existence  or  at  least  their 
functioning,  to  restore  them  to  their  natural  order.  The  former 
will  be  felt  as  pleasure,  the  latter  as  discomfort,  and  even  as 
pain.  With  the  sensuously-beautiful  there  can  be  no  question 
of  morality,  for  it  exists  as  perception  only,  and  does  not  rise 
to  the  rank  of  representation. 

Above  the  sensuously-beautiful  stands  the  intellectually-beauti- 
ful, no  longer  consisting  of  mere  perceptions,  but  of  representa- 
tions, of  concepts  and  judgments,  with  their  accompanying 
emotions  elaborated  in  the  unconscious.  The  intellectually- 
beautiful  must  also  awaken  feelings  of  pleasure,  to  be  perceived 
as  beautiful ;  and,  as  above  explained,  with  feelings  of  pleasure 
are  united,  in  healthy,  fully-developed  human  beings  equipped 
with  the  social  instinct  (altruism),  only  those  ideas  the  content 
whereof  is  conducive  to  the  existence  and  prosperity  of  the 
individual  being,  society,  or  species.  Now,  that  which  is  favour- 
able to  the  life  and  prosperity  of  the  individual  and  of  the 
species  is  precisely  that  which  we  call  moral. 

From  this  it  results  by  an  iron  necessity  that  a  work  which 
awakens  no  feelings  of  pleasure  cannot  be  beautiful,  and  that  it 
can  awaken  no  feelings  of  pleasure  if  it  is  not  moral,  and  we 
arrive  at  the  final  conclusion,  that  morality  and  beauty  are  in 
their  innermost  essence  identical.  It  were  not  false  to  assert  that 
beauty  is  statical  repose,  and  morality  beauty  in  action. 

This  is  only  apparently  contradicted  by  the  fact  that  what  is 
incontestably  ugly  and  bad  may  also  be  agreeable,  and  hence 
awaken  feelings  of  pleasure.  The  mental  process  set  up  by 
percepts  and  ideas  is  not,  in  this  case,  so  simple  and  direct  as 
with  respect  to  the  beautiful  and  the  good.  Associations  some- 
times of  a  highly  complex  nature  must  first  be  put  into  activity, 
finally,  however,  to  lead  to  the  single  great  result,  viz.,  the 
awakening  of  feelings  of  pleasure.  The  well-known  Aristotelian 
catharsis,  purging  or  purification,  explains  how  tragedy,  though 
it  offers  the  spectacle  of  pain  and  ruin,  finally  produces  an 
agreeable  effect.  The  representation  of  deserved  misfortune 
awakens  ideas  of  justice,  a  moral,  agreeable  idea  ;  and  even  that 
of  unmerited  misfortune  gives  rise  to  pity,  in  itself  a  feeling  of 
pain,  though,  in  its  quality  of  a  racial  instinct,  beneficial  and 


EGO-MANIA 


329 


therefore  not  only  moral,  but,  in  its  final  essence,  agreeable. 
When  Valdez,  in  his  famous  picture  of  the  Caridad  de  Seinlla, 
shows  us  an  open  coffin  in  which  lies  the  corpse  of  an  arch- 
bishop in  full  vestments,  swarming  with  worms,  this  spectacle 
is  in  itself  undeniably  repulsive.  Nevertheless  it  permits  us 
at  once  to  recognise  the  emotion  which  the  painter  wished  to 
express,  viz.,  his  feeling  of  the  nothingness  of  all  earthly  posses- 
sions and  honours,  the  frailty  of  man  in  the  face  of  the  primeval 
power  of  Nature.  It  is  the  same  emotion  embodied  by  Holbein 
in  his  '  Dance  of  Death,'  not  so  profoundly  and  passionately  as  by 
the  Spaniard  with  his  stronger  feelings,  but  with  self-mockery  and 
bitterness.  The  same  emotion  is  heard,  somewhat  less  gloomily 
and  with  more  of  a  melancholy  resignation,  in  Mozdi.rX!s  R,gmem. 
In  the  idea  of  the  contrast  between  the  insignificance  of  indi- 
vidual life  and  the  vastness  and  eternity  of  Nature,  there  mingles 
itself  an  element  of  the  sublime,  of  which  the  idea,  as  the 
choicest  form  of  activity  in  the  highest  brain-centres,  is  united 
with  feelings  of  pleasure. 

Another  circumstance  in  the  plastic  arts  has  to  be  considered. 
In  works  of  sculpture  and  painting  a  broad  separation  is  possible 
between  the  form  and  the  content,  between  the  sensuous  and  the 
moral.  A  painting,  a  group,  may  represent  the  most  immoral 
and  most  criminal  incident ;  nevertheless,  the  individual  con- 
stituent parts — the  atmosphere,  the  harmonies  of  colour,  the 
human  figures — may  be  beautiful  in  themselves,  and  the  con- 
noisseur may  derive  enjoyment  from  them  without  dwelling  on 
the  subject  of  the  work.  The  engravings  in  the  Editions  des 
fermiers  gene'raux  of  the  last  century,  the  works  in  marble  and 
bronze  of  the  pornographic  museum  at  Naples,  are,  in  a  measure, 
repulsively  immoral,  because  they  represent  unnatural  vice. 
In  themselves,  however,  they  are  excellently  executed,  and  are 
accessible  to  a  mode  of  contemplation  which  disregards  their 
idea  and  keeps  in  view  only  the  perfection  of  their  form.  Here, 
therefore,  the  impression  of  the  work  of  art  is  a  mixture  of  disgust 
for  the  subject  treated,  and  enjoyment  of  the  beauty  of  the  several 
figures  and  their  attitudes — painted,  drawn,  or  modelled.  The 
feeling  of  pleasure  may  preponderate,  and  the  work,  in  spite  of 
its  depravity,  produce,  not  a  repellent,  but  an  attractive  effect. 
It  is  the  same  in  nature.  If  that  which  is  pernicious  and 
frightful  is  sometimes  felt  to  be  beautiful,  it  is  because  it  con- 
tains certain  features  and  elements  which  have  no  cogent 
reference  to  the  frightful  or  pernicious  character  of  the  whole, 
and  can  hence  in  themselves  operate  aesthetically.  The  hammer- 
headed  viper  is  beautiful  on  account  of  its  metallic  lustre  ;  the 
tiger  for  its  strength  and  suppleness  ;  the  foxglove  {Digitalis)  for 
its  graceful  form  and  rich  rosy  hue.  The  noxiousness  of  the 
snake  does  not    lie   in    its   copper-red    dorsal    bands,    nor  the 


330  DEGENERATION 

terribleness  of  the  beast  of  prey  in  its  graceful  appearance,  nor 
the  danger  of  the  poisonous  plant  in  the  form  and  colour  of  its 
blossoms.  In  these  cases  the  sensuously-beautiful  outweighs  the 
morally-repulsive,  because  it  is  more  immediately  present,  and, 
in  the  collective  impression,  allows  the  feelings  of  pleasure  to 
predominate.  The  spectacle  of  the  display  of  strength  and 
resolution  is  equally  a  beautiful  one,  on  account  of  the  ideas  of 
organic  efficiency  awakened  by  it.  Would  this,  however,  be 
thought  beautiful  if  one  could  see  how  an  assassin  over- 
powers a  victim  who  is  resisting  violently,  hurls  him  to  the  ground 
and  butchers  him  ?  Certainly  not ;  for  before  such  a  picture  it 
is  no  longer  possible  to  separate  the  display  of  strength,  beauti- 
ful in  itself,  from  its  aim,  and  to  enjoy  the  former  regardless  of 
the  latter. 

In  poetry  this  separation  of  the  form  from  the  content  is  far 
less  possible  than  in  the  plastic  arts.  The  word  can  hardly  in 
itself  produce  an  effect  of  sensuous  beauty  by  its  auditory  or 
visual  image,  even  if  it  presents  itself  rhythmically  regulated 
and  strengthened  by  the  more  expressive  double  sound  of  a 
rhyme.  It  operates  almost  solely  by  its  content,  by  the  repre- 
sentations which  it  awakens.  Hence  it  is  hardly  conceivable 
that  one  can  hear  or  read  a  poetical  exposition  of  criminal  or 
vicious  facts,  without  having  present  at  each  word  a  representa- 
tion of  its  content,  and  not  of  its  form — i.e.,  of  its  sound.  In 
this  case,  therefore,  the  impression  can  no  longer  be  a  composite 
one,  as  at  the  sight  of  a  finely-painted  portrayal  of  a  repulsive 
incident,  but  must  be  purely  disagreeable.  The  pictures  of 
Giulio  Romano,  to  which  Pietro  Aretino  dedicated  his  Sonetti 
lussuriosi,  may  be  found  beautiful  by  the  admirers  of  the 
effeminate  style  of  that  pupil  of  Raphael ;  the  sonnets  are  only 
the  more  disgusting.  Who  would  experience  feelings  of 
pleasure  from  the  perusal  of  the  writings  of  the  Marquis  de 
Sade,  Andrea  de  Nercia  or  Liseux  ?  Only  one  species  of 
human  beings — that  of  the  degenerate  with  perverted  instincts. 
Portrayals  of  crime  and  vice  in  art  and  literature  have  their 
public ;  that  we  well  know.  It  is  the  public  of  the  gaols. 
Besides  dismally  sentimental  books,  criminals  read  nothing  so 
willingly  as  stories  of  lust  and  violence  ;*  and  the  drawings  and 
inscriptions  with  which  they  cover  the  walls  of  their  cells  have, 
for  the  most  part,  their  crimes  as  subjects.f  But  the  healthy 
man  feels  himself  violently  repelled  by  works  of  this  kind,  and 
it  is  impossible  for  him  to  receive  an  aesthetic  impression  from 

*  Henry  Joly,  Les  Lectures  dans  les  Prisons  de  la  Seme.  Lyon,  1891.  See 
also  Lombroso,  L' Uotno  delinquente.  Turin,  1884,  p.  366  et  seg.,  and  p.  387 
et  seq. 

t  Pitrfe,  Siti  Caiiti  popolari  italiani  in  Carcere.  Firenze,  1876.  See  also 
tbe  portrait-group  of  the  three  brigands  of  Ravenna  in  Lombroso,  op.  cit., 
Plate  XV.,  facing  p.  396. 


EGO-MANIA  331 

them,  be  their  form  never  so  conformable  to  the  most  approved 
rules  of  art. 

In  yet  another  case  it  is  possible  for  that  which  is  most 
ugly  and  vicious  in  artistic  portrayal  to  operate  in  the  direction 
of  the  morally  beautiful;  This  is  when  it  allows  us  to  recognise 
the  moral  purpose  of  the  author  and  betrays  his  sympathetic 
emotion.  For  that  which  we,  consciously  or  unconsciously, 
perceive  behind  every  artistic  creation  is  the  nature  of  its 
creator  and  the  emotion  from  which  it  sprang,  and  our  sympathy 
with,  or  antipathy  for,  the  emotion  of  the  author  has  the  lion's 
share  in  our  appreciation  of  the  work.  When  Raffaelli  paints 
shockingly  degraded  absinthe-drinkers  in  the  low  drinking  dens 
of  the  purlieus  of  Paris,  we  clearly  feel  his  profound  pity  at 
the  sight  of  these  fallen  human  beings,  and  this  emotion  we  ex- 
perience as  a  morally  beautiful  one.  In  like  manner  we  have  not 
a  momentary  doubt  of  the  morality  of  the  artist's  emotions  when 
we  behold  Callot's  pictures  of  the  horrors  of  war,  or  the  bleeding, 
purulent  saints  of  Zurbaran,  or  the  monsters  of  Breughel  van 
der  HoUe,  or  when  we  read  the  murder  scene  in  Dostojevsky's 
Raskolnikow  *  These  emotions  are  beautiful.  Sympathy  with 
them  gives  us  a  feeling  of  pleasure.  Against  this  feeling  the 
displeasure  caused  by  the  repulsiveness  of  the  work  cannot 
prevail.  When,  however,  the  work  betrays  the  indifference 
of  the  author  to  the  evil  or  ugliness  he  depicts,  nay,  his  predilec- 
tion for  it,  then  the  abhorrence  provoked  by  the  work  is 
intensified  by  all  the  disgust  which  the  author's  aberration 
of  instinct  inspires  in  us,  and  the  aggregate  impression  is  one 
of  keenest  displeasure.  Those  who  share  the  emotions  of 
the  author,  and  hence  are  with  him  attracted  and  pleasur- 
ably  excited  by  what  is  repugnant,  diseased  and  evil,  are  the 
degenerate. 

The  .Esthetes  affirm  that  artistic  activity  is  the  highest  of 
which  the  human  mind  is  capable,  and  must  occupy  the  first 
place  in  the  estimation  of  men.  How  do  they  manage  to 
establish  this  assertion  from  their  own  standpoint  ?  Why 
should  I  place  a  high  value  on  the  activity  of  a  fellow  who  with 
rapture  describes  the  colours  and  odours  of  putrid  carrion  ;  and 
why  should  I  bestow  my  especial  esteem  on  a  painter  who 
shows  me  the  libidinousness  of  a  harlot }  Because  the  amount 
of  artistic  technique  involved  is  difficult?  If  that  is  to  be  the 
decisive  point,  then,  to  be  logical,  the  ^Esthetes  must  place  the 
acrobat  higher  than  the  artist  of  their  species,  since  it  is  much 
more  difficult  to  learn  the  art  of  the  trapezist  than  the  rhyming 
and  daubing  which  constitutes  the  'art '  of  the  Esthetes.     Is  it 

*  Raskolnikow,  Roman  von  F.  M.  Dostojewskij,  Nach  der  vierten  Auflage 
des  russichen  Originals  ;  Prestuplenie  i  Nakazcmie^  iiberseizt  von  Wilhelm 
Henckel.     Leipzij^,  1882,  liand  1.,  pp.  122-128. 


332  DEGENERATION 

to  be  on  account  of  sensations  of  pleasure  given  by  artists  ? 
First  of  all,  those  artists  over  whom  the  Esthetes  grow  so 
enthusiastic  create  in  the  healthy  man  no  pleasure,  but  loathing 
or  boredom.  But  granted  that  they  do  provide  sensations,  the 
first  inquiry  must  then  be  of  what  sort  these  sensations  are. 
Every  sensation,  even  if  we  for  the  moment  find  it  agreeable,  does 
not  inspire  us  with  esteem  for  the  person  to  whom  we  are  indebted 
for  it.  At  the  card-table,  in  the  public-house  and  the  brothel, 
a  base  nature  may  procure  sensations  the  intensity  of  which 
those  offered  by  any  work  of  the  ^Esthetes  is  far  from  being 
able  to  rival.  But  even  the  most  dissolute  drunkard  does  not  in 
consequence  hold  the  keepers  of  these  places  of  his  pleasures  in 
specially  high  esteem. 

The  truth  is  that  the  claim  of  the  highest  rank  for  art  advanced 
by  the  iEsthetes  involves  the  complete  refutation  of  their  other 
dogmas.  The  race  estimates  individual  activities  according  to 
their  utility  for  the  whole.  The  higher  this  develops  itself,  the 
more  exact  and  profound  is  the  understanding  it  acquires  of 
that  which  is  really  necessary  and  beneficial  to  it  The  warrior, 
who  in  a  low  grade  of  civilization  rightly  plays  the  most  promi- 
nent part,  because  society  must  live,  and  to  this  end  must  defend 
itself  against  its  enemies,  recedes  to  a  more  humble  position  as 
manners  become  more  gentle,  and  the  relations  between  peoples 
cease  to  resemble  those  between  beasts  of  prey,  and  assume  a 
human  character.  Once  the  race  has  attained  in  some  degree 
to  a  clear  comprehension  of  its  relation  to  nature,  it  knows  that 
knowledge  is  its  most  important  task,  and  its  profoundest 
respect  is  for  those  who  cultivate  and  enlarge  knowledge — 
i.e.,  for  thinkers  and  investigators.  Even  in  the  monarchical 
state,  which,  conformably  with  its  own  atavistic  nature,  gauges 
the  importance  of  the  warrior  by  the  standard  of  primitive  men 
(and  in  the  present  condition  of  Europe,  in  the  presence  of  the 
scarcely  restrained  fury  for  war,  among  a  whole  series  of  nations, 
the  raison  d'etre  for  this  atavism  cannot,  alas!  be  contested),  the 
scholar,  as  professor,  academician,  counsellor,  is  a  constituent 
part  of  the  governmental  machine,  and  honours  and  dignities 
fall  far  more  to  his  lot  than  to  the  poet  and  artist.  The  enthu- 
siasts of  the  latter  are  youths  and  women — i.e.,  those  components 
of  the  race  in  whom  the  unconscious  outweighs  consciousness  ; 
for  artist  and  poet  address  themselves  first  of  all  to  emotion,  and 
this  is  more  easily  excited  in  the  woman  and  the  adolescent 
than  in  the  mature  man  ;  their  accomplishments  are,  moreover, 
more  accessible  to  the  multitude  than  those  of  the  scholar  whom 
almost  the  best  alone  of  his  time  can  follow,  and  whose  import- 
ance is  in  general  fully  appreciated  only  by  a  ^qw  specialists, 
even  in  our  days  of  the  popularizatioii  of  science  by  the  press. 
State  and  society,  however,  seek  to  compensate  him    for   the 


EGO-MANIA  333 

evasion  of  this  reward,  by  surrounding  him  with  official  forms 
of  high  esteem. 

It  is  true  that  very  great  artists  and  poets,  admitted  pioneers, 
whose  influence  is  recognised  as  lasting,  likewise  receive  their 
share  of  the  official  honours  disposed  of  by  the  organized 
commonwealth  as  such,  and  these  exceptional  men  obtain  a 
more  brilliant  reward  than  any  investigator  or  discoverer ;  for 
together  with  the  common  distinctions  shared  by  them  with  the 
latter,  they  possess  the  wide  popularity  which  the  investigator 
and  discoverer  must  dispense  withal.  And  why  is  the  artist 
sometimes  placed,  even  by  persons  of  good  and  serious  minds, 
on  a  level  with,  or  even  above,  the  man  of  science  ?  Because 
these  persons  value  the  beautiful  more  than  the  true,  emotion  more 
than  knowledge  ?  No  ;  but  because  they  have  the  right  feeling 
that  art  is  equally  a  source  of  knowledge. 

It  is  so  in  three  ways.  Firstly,  the  emotion  evoked  by  the 
work  of  art  is  itself  a  means  of  obtaining  knowledge,  as  Edmund 
R.  Clay,  James  Sully,  and  other  psychologists  have  seen, 
without,  however,  dwelling  on  the  important  fact.  It  constrains 
the  higher  centres  to  attend  to  the  causes  of  their  excitations, 
and  in  this  way  necessarily  induces  a  sharper  observation  and 
comprehension  of  the  whole  series  of  phenomena  related  to  the 
emotion.  Next,  the  work  of  art  grants  an  insight  into  the  laws 
of  which  the  phenomenon  is  the  expression  ;  for  the  artist,  in  his 
creation,  separates  the  essential  from  the  accidental,  neglects  the 
latter,  which  in  nature  is  wont  to  divert  and  confuse  the  less 
gifted  observer,  and  involuntarily  gives  prominence  to  the 
former  as  that  which  chiefly  or  solely  occupies  his  attention, 
and  is  therefore  perceived  and  reproduced  by  him  with  especial 
distinctness.  The  artist  himself  divines  the  idea  behind  the 
structure,  and  its  inner  principle  and  connection,  intelligible  but 
not  perceivable,  in  the  form,  and  discloses  it  in  his  work  to  the 
spectator.  That  is  what  Hegel  means  when  he  calls  the  beau- 
tiful '  the  presence  of  the  idea  in  limited  phenomenon.'  By 
means  of  his  own  deep  comprehension  of  natural  law,  the  artist 
powerfull}'  furthers  the  comprehension  of  it  by  other  men.* 
Finally,  art  is  the  only  glimmer  of  light,  weak  and  dubious 
though  it  be,  which  projects  itself  into  the  future,  and  gives  us  at 

*  The  knowledge  of  this  fact  is  as  old  as  aesthetic  science  itself.  It  is 
well  expressed,  as  by  others,  so  by  Dr.  Wilh.  Alex.  Freund,  in  his  BHcken  ins 
Culturlebenj  Breslau,  1879,  p.  9  :  '  Idealization  consists  ...  in  the  removal 
of  accidental  accessories  disturbing  the  true  expression  of  the  essential ;' 
p.  II  :  'AH  [eminent  artists]  raise  that  which  they  see  to  a  purified 
image,  purged  of  all  that  is  unessential,  accidental,  disturbing ;  from  that 
image  springs  up  in  all  of  them  the  idea  lying  at  the  base  of  the  vision  ;'  p.  13  : 
'  He  [the  artist]  comprehends  the  essential  .  .  .  from  which  the  accidental 
disturbing  accessories  of  the  external  phenomenon  fall  off  like  withered 
leaves,  so  that  to  his  inner  eye  the  truth  appears  as  a  living  idea,'  etc. 


334  DEGENERATION 

least  a  dream-like  idea  of  the  outlines  and  direction  of  our  further 
organic  developments.  This  is  not  mysticism,  but  a  very- 
clear  and  comprehensible  fact.  We  have  seen  above*  that 
every  adaptation — i.e.,  every  change  of  form  and  function  of  the 
organs — is  preceded  by  a  representation  of  this  change.  The 
change  must  first  be  felt  and  desired  as  necessary ;  then  a  re- 
presentation of  it  becomes  elaborated  in  the  higher  or  highest 
nerve-centres,  and  finally  the  organism  endeavours  to  realize 
this  representation.  This  process  repeats  itself  in  the  same 
way  in  the  race.  Some  state  is  disturbing  to  it.  It  experiences 
feelings  of  discomfort  from  this  state.  It  suffers  from  it.  From 
this  results  its  desire  to  change  the  state.  It  elaborates  for 
itself  an  image  of  the  nature,  direction  and  extent  of  this  change. 
According  to  the  older,  mystic  phrase,  '  it  creates  for  itself 
an  ideal'  The  ideal  is  really  the  formative  idea  of  future 
organic  development  with  a  view  to  better  adaptation.  In  the 
most  perfect  individuals  of  the  species  it  exists  earlier  and  more 
distinct  than  in  the  average  multitude,  and  the  artist  ventures  with 
uncertain  hand  to  make  it  accessible  to  sense  through  the  medium 
of  his  work  of  art  long  before  it  can  be  organically  realized 
by  the  race.  Thus  art  vouchsafes  the  most  refined  and  highest 
knowledge,  bordering  on  the  marvellous,  viz.,  the  knowledge 
of  the  future.  Not  so  definitely,  of  course,  nor  so  unequivocally, 
does  art  express  the  secret  natural  law  of  being  and  becoming 
as  science.  Science  shows  the  present,  the  positive  ;  Art  pro- 
phesies the  future,  the  possible,  though  stammeringly  and  ob- 
scurely. To  the  former  Nature  unveils  her  fixed  forms ;  to  the 
latter  she  grants,  amidst  shudderings,  a  rapid,  bewildered  glimpse 
of  the  depths  where  what  is  yet  formless  is  struggling  to  appear. 
The  emotion  from  which  the  divining  work  of  art  springs  is  the 
birth  throe  of  the  quick  and  vigorous  organism  pregnant  with 
the  future.-|- 

This  art  of  presentiment  is  certainly  the  highest  mental 
activity  of  the  human  being.  But  it  is  not  the  art  of  the 
Esthetes.  It  is  the  most  moral  art,  for  it  is  the  most  ideal,  a 
word  only  meaning  that  it  is  parallel  with  the  paths  along  which 
the  race  is  perfecting  itself — nay,  coincides  with  these. 

By  the  most  diverse  methods  we  have  always  attained  the 
same  result,  viz.,  it  is  not  true  that  art  has  nothing  in  common 

*  See  footnote  to  p.  38. 

f  Wilhelm  Loewenthal  makes  the  feeling  and  need  of  religion  spring 
from  the  same  presenlient  emotion.  For  the  author  of  Grimdziige  einer 
Hygiene  des  Untertichts,  rehgion  is  the  form  assumed  in  man's  consciousness 
by  the  ideal,  i.e..,  the  presentient  knowledge  of  the  aim  of  evolution,  'The 
instinct  of  development — the  indispensable  base  of  all  life  and  all  knowledge 
— is  identical  with  the  religious  need.'  Thus  he  writes  in  a  memoir, 
unfortunately  only  '  printed  as  a  manuscript,'  but  most  worthy  of  being  made 
accessible  to  all  the  world. 


EGO-MANIA  335 

with  morality.  The  work  of  art  must  be  moral,  for  its  aim  is  to 
express  and  excite  emotions.  In  virtue  of  this  aim  it  falls  within 
the  competence  of  criticism,  which  tests  all  emotions  by  their 
utility  or  perniciousness  to  the  individual  or  the  race  ;  and  if  it 
is  immoral,  it  must  be '  condemned  like  every  other  organic 
activity  opposed  to  this  aim.  The  work  of  art  must  be  moral, 
for  it  is  intended  to  operate  ^sthetically.  It  can  only  do  this  if 
it  awakens  feelings  of  pleasure,  at  least  ultimately  ;  it  provides 
such,  only  if  it  includes  beauty  in  itself;  but  beauty  is  in  its 
essence  synonymous  with  morality.  Finally,  the  highest  work 
of  art  can,  from  its  inmost  nature^  be  none  other  than  moral, 
since  it  is  a  manifestation  of  vital  force  and  health,  a  revelation 
of  the  capacity  for  evolution  of  the  race;  and  humanity  values  it 
so  highly  because  it  divines  this  circumstance. 

Concerning  the  last  doctrine  of  the  Esthetes,  viz.,  that  art 
must  shun  the  true  and  the  natural,  this  is  a  commonplace 
pushed  to  an  absurdity,  and  converted  into  its  contrary.  Perfect, 
actual  truth  and  naturalness  need  not  be  denied  to  art ;  they  are 
impossible  to  it.  For  whereas  the  work  of  art  makes  the  artist's 
idea  tangible,  an  idea  is  never  an  exact  copy  of  a  pheno- 
menon of  the  external  world.  Before  it  can  become  an  idea 
in  a  human  consciousness  every  phenomenon  experiences  two 
very  essential  modifications — one  in  the  afferent  and  receptive 
organs  of  sense,  the  other  in  the  centres  elaborating  sense- 
perceptions  into  representations.  These  sensory  nerves  and 
centres  of  perception  change  the  modes  of  the  external  stimuli 
conformably  with  their  own  nature  ;  they  give  to  these  their 
particular  colouring,  as  different  wind-instruments  played  by  the 
same  person  give  forth  different  shades  of  sound  with  the  same 
force  of  breath.  The  centres  forming  representations  modify  in 
their  turn  the  actual  relation  of  the  phenomena  to  each  other, 
in  that  they  bring  some  into  stronger  relief,  and  neglect  others 
of  really  equal  value.  Consciousness  does  not  take  cognizance 
of  all  the  countless  perceptions  uninterruptedly  excited  in  the 
brain,  but  of  those  only  to  which  it  is  attentive.  But  by  the 
simple  fact  of  attention,  consciousness  selects  individual  pheno- 
mena, and  gives  them  an  importance  they  do  not  possess  in  the 
unceasing  uniformity  of  universal  movement. 

But  if  the  work  of  art  never  renders  reality  in  its  exact 
relations,  it  can,  on  the  other  hand  (and  this  is  both  a 
psychological  and  sesthetical  commonplace),  never  be  con- 
structed from  constituents  other  than  those  supplied  by  reality. 
The  mode  in  which  these  constituents  are  blended  and  united 
by  the  artist's  imagination  permits  the  recognition  of  another 
fact,  as  true  and  natural  as  any  that  is  habitually  desig- 
nated by  us  as  real,  to  wit,  the  character,  mode  of  thought, 
and    emotion   of    the   artist.      For   what   is   imagination .-'      A 


336  DEGENERATION 

special  case  of  the  general  psychological  law  of  association.  In 
scientific  observation  and  judgment  the  play  of  association  is 
most  rigorously  supervised  by  attention  ;  the  will  violently 
inhibits  the  propagation  of  stimuli  along  the  most  convenient 
paths,  and  prevents  the  penetration  of  mere  similarities,  con- 
trasts, and  contiguities  in  space  or  time  into  consciousness, 
which  is  reserved  for  the  images  of  immediate  reality  trans- 
mitted by  the  senses.  In  artistic  creation  imagination  rules — 
that  is  to  say,  the  inhibition  exercised  by  the  will  is  relaxed  ; 
in  accordance  with  the  laws  of  association  a  presentation  is 
allowed  to  summon  into  consciousness  representations  which 
are  similar,  contrasted,  or  contiguous  in  space  or  time.  But 
inhibition  is  not  wholly  inactive,  and  the  will  does  not  permit 
the  union  of  reciprocally  exclusive  representations  into  a  con- 
cept ;  thus  it  prohibits  the  elaboration  of  an  intellectual  absurdity, 
such  as  is  yielded  by  purely  automatic  association  or  fugitive 
ideation.  The  emotion  of  the  artist  reveals  itself  in  accordance 
with  the  way  in  which  representations  supplied  by  association 
are  grouped  into  concepts,  for  it  causes  representations  agree- 
ing with  it  to  be  retained,  and  the  indifferent  or  contradictory 
to  be  suppressed.  Even  fantastic  images,  as  extravagant  as 
a  winged  horse  or  a  woman  with  lion's  paws,  reveal  a  true 
emotion  :  the  former  an  aspiration  proceeding  from  the  spectacle 
of  the  bird  soaring  light  and  free  ;  the  latter  a  horror  of  the 
power  of  sexuality  subjugating  reason  and  conjuring  up  devour- 
ing passion.  It  would  be  a  grateful  task  for  workers  in  the 
histology  of  psychology  to  trace  the  emotions  whence  the  best 
known  fantastic  figures  of  art  and  the  metaphors  of  poets  have 
proceeded.  Hence  it  may  be  said  that  every  work  of  art 
always  comprises  in  itself  truth  and  reality  in  so  far  as,  if  it 
does  not  reflect  the  external  world,  it  surely  reflects  the  mental 
life  of  the  artist. 

Hence,  as  we  have  seen,  not  one  of  the  sophisms  of  the 
.Esthetes  withstands  criticism.  The  work  of  art  is  not  its  own 
aim,  but  it  has  a  specially  organic,  and  a  social  task.  It  is  subject 
to  the  moral  law  ;  it  must  obey  this  ;  it  has  claim  to  esteem 
only  if  it  is  morally  beautiful  and  ideal.  And  it  cannot  be  other 
than  natural  and  true,  in  so  far,  at  least,  as  it  is  the  offprint  of 
a  personality,  which  is  also  a  part  of  nature  and  reality.  The 
entire  system  takes  as  its  point  of  departure  a  few  erroneous 
or  imprudent  assertions  of  thinkers  and  poets  commanding 
respect,  but  developed  by  the  Parnassians  and  Decadents  in 
a  way  of  which  Lessing,  Kant  and  Schiller  never  allowed 
themselves  to  dream.  This  is  no  other  than  the  well-known 
attempt  to  explain  and  justify  impulsions  by  motives  more  or 
less  obvious  and  invented  post  facto.  The  degenerate  who,  in 
consequence  of  their  organic  aberrations,    make  the  repulsive 


EGO-MANIA  337 

and  ugly,  vice  and  crime,  the  subject-matter  of  plastic  and 
literary  works  of  art,  naturally  have  recourse  to  the  theory  that 
art  has  nothing  in  common  with  morality,  truth  and  beauty,  since 
this  theory  has  for  them  the  value  of  an  excuse.  And  must 
not  the  excessive  value  set  upon  artistic  activity  as  such,  without 
regard  to  the  worth  of  its  results,  be  highly  welcome  to  the 
limitless  crowd  of  imitators  who  practise  art,  not  from  an  inner 
prompting,  but  from  a  foolhardy  craving  for  the  respect  sur- 
rounding real  artists — imitators  who  have  nothing  of  their  own 
to  say,  no  emotion,  not  an  idea,  but  who,  with  a  superficial 
professional  dexterity  easily  acquired,  falsify  the  views  and 
feelings  of  masters  in  all  branches  of  art  ?  This  rabble, 
which  claims  for  itself  a  top  place  in  the  scale  of  intel- 
lectual rank,  and  freedom  from  the  constraint  of  all  moral 
laws  as  its  most  noble  privilege,  is  certainly  baser  than  the 
lowest  scavenger.  These  creatures  are  of  absolutely  no  use  to 
the  commonwealth,  and  injure  true  art  by  their  productions, 
whose  multitude  and  importunateness  shut  out  from  most  men 
the  sight  of  the  genuine  works  of  art — never  very  numerous 
— of  the  epoch.  They  are  weaklings  in  will,  unfitted  for  any 
activity  requiring  regular  uniform  efforts,  or  else  victims  to  vanity, 
wishing  to  be  more  famous  than  is  possible  to  a  stone-breaker 
or  a  tailor.  The  uncertainty  of  comprehension  and  taste  among 
the  majority  of  mankind,  and  the  incompetency  of  most  pro- 
fessional critics,  allow  these  intruders  to  make  their  nest  among 
the  arts,  and  to  dwell  there  as  parasites  their  life  long.  The 
buyer  soon  distinguishes  a  good  boot  from  a  bad  one,  and  the 
journeyman  cobbler  who  cannot  properly  sew  on  a  sole  finds  no 
employment.  But  that  a  book  or  painting  void  of  all  originality 
is  indifferent  in  quality,  and  for  that  reason  superfluous,  is  by  no 
means  so  easily  recognised  by  the  Philistine,  or  even  by  the 
man  armed  with  the  critical  pen,  and  the  producer  of  such  chaff 
can  apply  himself  undisturbed  to  his  assiduous  waste  of  time. 
These  bunglers  with  pen,  brush  and  modelling  spattle,  strutting 
about  in  cap  and  doublet,  naturally  swear  by  the  doctrine  of 
the  ^Esthetes,  carry  themselves  as  if  they  were  the  salt  of 
humanity,  and  make  a  parade  of  their  contempt  for  the 
Philistine.  They  belong,  however,  to  the  elements  of  the  race 
which  are  most  inimical  to  society.  Insensible  to  its  tasks  and 
interests,  without  the  capacity  to  comprehend  a  serious  thought 
or  a  fruitful  deed,  they  dream  only  of  the  satisfaction  of  their 
basest  instincts,  and  are  pernicious — through  the  example  they 
set  as  drones,  as  well  as  through  the  confusion  they  cause  in  minds 
insufficiently  forewarned,  by  their  abuse  of  the  word  '  art '  to 
mean  demoralization  and  childishness.  Ego-maniacs,  Deca- 
dents and  Esthetes  have  completely  gathered  under  their  banner 
this  refuse  of  civilized  peoples,  and  march  at  its  head. 

22 


338  DEGENERATION 

CHAPTER  IV. 

IBSENISM. 

In  the  course  of  the  last  two  centuries  the  whole  civilized  world 
has,  with  greater  or  less  unanimity,  repeatedly  recognised  a  sort 
of  intellectual  royalty  in  some  contemporary,  to  whom  it  has 
rendered  homage  as  the  first  and  greatest  among  living  authors. 
For  a  great  part  of  the  eighteenth  century  Voltaire,  '  le  roi 
Voltaire^  was  the  *  poet  laureate '  of  all  civilized  nations. 
During  the  first  third  of  the  present  century  this  position  was 
held  by  Goethe.  After  his  death  the  throne  remained  vacant 
for  a  score  of  years,  when  Victor  Hugo  ascended  it  amidst  the 
enthusiastic  acclamations  of  the  Latin  and  Slavonic  races,  and 
with  a  feeble  opposition  from  those  of  Teutonic  origin,  to  hold 
it  until  the  end  of  his  life. 

At  the  present  time  voices  have  for  some  years  been  heard 
in  all  countries  claiming  for  Henrik  Ibsen  the  highest  intel- 
lectual honours  at  the  disposal  of  mankind.  It  is  wished  that 
the  Norwegian  dramatist  should,  in  his  old  age,  be  recognised 
as  the  world-poet  of  the  closing  century.  It  is  true  that  only  a 
part  of  the  multitude  and  of  the  critical  representatives  of  its 
taste  acclaims  him  ;  but  the  fact  that  it  has  entered  anyone's 
mind  at  all  to  see  in  him  a  claimant  for  the  throne  of  poetry 
makes  a  minute  examination  of  his  titles  to  the  position 
necessary. 

That  Henrik  Ibsen  is  a  poet  of  great  verve  and  power  is 
not  for  a  moment  to  be  denied.  He  is  extraordinarily  emotive, 
and  has  the  gift  of  depicting  in  an  exceptionally  lifelike  and 
impressive  manner  that  which  has  excited  his  feelings.  (We 
shall  see  that  these  are  almost  always  feelings  of  hatred  and 
rage,  i.e.,  of  displeasure.)  A  natural  capacity  drew  him  towards 
the  stage — a  capacity  for  imagining  situations  in  which  the 
characters  are  forced  to  turn  inside  out  their  inmost  nature ; 
in  which  abstract  ideas  transform  themselves  into  deeds,  and 
modes  of  opinion  and  of  feeling,  imperceptible  to  the  senses, 
but  potent  as  causes,  are  made  patent  to  sight  and  hearing  in 
attitudes  and  gestures,  in  the  play  of  feature  and  in  words. 
Like  Richard  Wagner,  he  knows  how  to  group  events  into 
living  frescoes  possessing  the  charm  of  significant  pictures  ;  with 
this  difference,  however,  that  Ibsen  works,  not  like  Wagner, 
with  strange  costumes  and  properties,  architectural  splendour, 
mechanical  magic,  gods  and  fabulous  beasts,  but  with  penetrating 
vision    into   the  backgrounds   of  souls   and  the  conditions   of 


EGO-MANIA  339 

humanity.  Fairy-lore  is  not  lacking  in  Ibsen  either,  but  he 
does  not  allow  the  imagination  of  the  spectators  to  run  riot  in 
mere  spectacles  ;  he  forces  them  into  moods,  and  binds  them 
by  his  spell  in  circles  of  ideas,  through  the  pictures  which 
he  unrolls  before  them. 

His  strong  desire  to  embody  the  thought  occupying  his  mind 
in  a  single  picture,  which  can  be  surveyed  at  one  view,  also 
dictated  to  him  the  set  form  of  his  drama — a  form  not  invented, 
but  largely  perfected,  by  him.  His  pieces  are,  as  it  were,  final 
words  terminating  long  anterior  developments.  They  are  the 
sudden  breaking  into  flame  of  combustible  materials  accumu- 
lating during  years,  it  may  be  during  whole  human  lives,  or  even 
generations,  and  of  which  the  sudden  flare  brilliantly  illumines  a 
wide  extent  of  time  and  space.  The  incidents  of  the  Ibsen  drama 
more  frequently  take  place  in  a  day,  or  at  most  in  twice  twenty- 
four  hours,  and  in  this  short  space  of  time  there  are  concentred 
all  the  effects  of  the  course  of  the  world  and  of  social  institu- 
tions on  certain  characters,  in  such  a  conspectus  that  the 
destinies  of  the  dramatis  personae  become  clear  to  us  from  the 
moment  of  their  first  appearance.  The  DoWs  Hoitse,  Ghosts, 
Rosmershohn,  The  Pillars  of  Society,  and  Hedda  Gabler  comprise 
about  twenty- four  hours  ;  An  E^iemy  of  Society,  The  Wild  Duck, 
The  Lady  from  the  Sea,  about  thirty-six  hours.  It  is  the  return 
to  the  Aristotelian  doctrine  of  the  unities  of  time  and  space 
with  an  orthodoxy  compared  with  which  the  French  classicists 
of  the  age  of  Louis  XIV.  are  heretics.  I  might  well  term 
the  Ibsenite  technique  a  technique  of  fireworks,  for  it  consists 
in  preparing  long  in  advance  a  staging  on  which  the  suns, 
Roman  candles,  squibs,  fireballs  and  concluding  fire-sheaves 
are  carefully  placed  in  proper  position.  When  all  is  ready  the 
curtain  rises,  and  the  artistically-constructed  work  begins  to 
crackle,  explosion  following  explosion  uninterruptedly  with 
thunder  and  lightning.  This  technique  is  certainly  very 
effective,  but  hardly  true.  In  reality  events  rarely  lead  up  to 
a  catastrophe  so  brilliant  and  succinct.  In  Nature  all  is 
slowly  prepared,  and  unrolls  itself  gradually,  and  the  results 
of  human  deeds  covering  years  of  time  do  not  compress  them- 
selves into  a  few  hours.  Nature  does  not  work  epigrammatically. 
She  cannot  trouble  herself  about  Aristotelian  unities,  for  she 
has  always  an  infinity  of  affairs  of  her  own  in  progress  at  one 
and  the  same  time.  As  a  matter  of  handicraft,  one  is  certainly 
often  forced  to  admire  the  cleverness  with  which  Ibsen  guides 
and  knots  the  threads  of  his  plot.  Sometimes  the  labour  is  more 
successful  than  at  other  times,  but  it  always  implies  a  great 
expenditure  of  textile  skill.  Whoever  sets  most  store  on 
truth  in  a  poem — that  is,  on  the  natural  action  of  the  laws 
of  life  —  will   often   enough  bring  away  from    Ibsen's  dramas 


340  DEGENERATION 

an    impression  of  improbability,    and    of  toilsome    and    subtle 
lucubrations. 

The  power  with  which  Ibsen,  in  a  few  rapid  strokes,  sketches 
a  situation,  an  emotion,  a  dim-lit  depth  of  the  soul,  is  very  much 
higher  than  his  skill,  so  much  extolled,  of  foreshortening  in  time, 
which  may  be  said  to  be  the  poetic  counterpart  of  the  painter's 
artifice  (difficult,  but  for  the  most  part  barren)  of  foreshortening 
in  space.  Each  of  the  terse  words  which  suffice  him  has 
something  of  the  nature  of  a  peephole,  through  which  limitless 
vistas  are  obtained.  The  plays  of  all  peoples  and  all  ages  have 
few  situations  at  once  so  perfectly  simple  and  so  irresistibly 
affecting  as  the  scenes — to  cite  only  a  few — where  Nora  is 
playing  with  her  children,*  where  Dr.  Rank  relates  that  he  is 
doomed  to  imminent  death  by  his  inexorable  disease,t  where 

*  Nora  {the  children  talk  all  at  once  to  her  diirmg  the  following).  And 
so  you  have  been  having  great  fun  ?  That  is  splendid.  Oh,  really  !  you 
have  been  giving  Emmy  and  Bob  a  slide,  both  at  once  1  Dear  me!  you  are 
quite  a  man,  Ivar.  Oh,  give  her  to  me  a  little,  Mary  Ann.  My  sweetheart  ! 
{Takes  the  smallest  from  the  nurse,  afid  dances  it  up  and  down.)  Yes,  yes  ; 
mother  will  dance  with  Bob,  too.  What  !  did  you  have  a  game  of  snowballs 
as  well.''  Oh,  I  ought  to  have  been  there.  No,  leave  them,  Mary  Ann  ;  I 
will  take  their  things  off.  No,  no,  let  me  do  it ;  it  is  so  amusing.  Go  to  the 
nursery  for  awhile,  you  look  so  frozen.  You'll  find  some  hot  coffee  on  the 
stove.  {The  nurse  goes  to  the  rootn  on  the  left.  NoRA  takes  off  the 
children's  things  and  throws  them  down  afiywhete,  while  she  lets  the  children 
talk  to  each  other  and  to  her.)  Really  !  Then  there  was  a  big  dog  there 
who  ran  after  you  all  the  way  home?  But  I'm  sure  he  didn't  bite  you.  No ; 
dogs  don't  bite  dear  dolly  little  children.  Don't  peep  into  those  parcels, 
Ivar.  You  want  to  know  what  there  is?  Yes,  you  are  the  only  people  who 
shall  know.  Oh,  no,  no,  that  is  not  pretty.  Wnat  I  must  we  have  a  game  ? 
What  shall  it  be,  then?  Hide  and  seek?  Yes,  let  us  play  hide  and  seek. 
Bob  shall  hide  first.  Am  I  to?  Very  well,  I  will  hide  first.— v^  DoWs 
House,  Griffith  and  Farran,  p.  30. 

f  Rank  (z«  Nora's  a7td  Helmer'S  rooni).  [He  has  that  day  discovered 
a  symptom  in  himself  which  he  knows  is  an  infallible  sign  of  approaching 
death.]  Yes,  here  is  the  dear  place  I  know  so  well.  It  is  so  quiet  and  com- 
fortable here  with  you  two. 

Helmer.  You  seemed  to  enjoy  yourself  exceedingly  upstairs,  too. 

Rank.  Exceedingly.  Why  should  I  not  ?  Why  shouldn't  one  get  enjoy- 
ment out  of  everything  in  this  world  ?  At  any  rate,  as  much  and  as  long  as 
one  can.     The  wine  was  splendid. 

Helmer.  Especially  the  champagne. 

Rank.  Did  you  notice  it.  too  ?  It  was  perfectly  incredible  the  quantity  I 
contrived  to  drink.  .  .  .  Well,  why  should  one  not  have  a  merry  evening 
after  a  well-spent  day  ? 

Helmer.  Well  spent  ?    As  to  that,  I  have  not  much  to  boast  of. 

Rank  {tapping  him  on  the  shoulder).  But  I  have,  don't  you  see. 

Nora.  Then,  you  have  certainly  been  engaged  in  some  scientific  investiga- 
tion, Dr.  Rank. 

Rank.  Quite  right.  ,  .  . 

Nora.  And  am  I  to  congratulate  you  on  the  result? 

Rank.  By  all  means  you  must. 

Nora.  Then  the  result  was  a  good  one  ? 


EGO-MANIA  341 

Frau  Alving  with  horror  discerns  his  dissolute  father*  in  her 
only  son,  where  the  housekeeper,  Frau  Helseth,  sees  Rosmer 
and  Rebecca  die  in  each  other's  arms,-f-  etc. 

Similarly,  it  must  be  acknowledged  that  Ibsen  has  created 
some  characters  possessing  a  truth  to  life  and  a  completeness 
such  as  are  not  to  be  met  with  in  any  poet  since  Shakespeare. 
Gina  (in  The  Wild  Duck)  is  one  of  the  most  profound  creations  of 
world-literature — almost  as  great  as  Sancho  Panza,  who  inspired 

Rank.  The  best  possible,  alike  for  the  physician  and  patient — namely, 
certainty. 

Nora  {guickly  a7td scarchingly).  Certainty  ? 

Rank.  Complete  certainty.  Ought  not  I,  upon  the  strength  of  it,  to  be 
very  merry  this  evening  ? 

Nora.  Yes,  you  were  quite  right  to  be,  Dr.  Rank.  ...  I  am  sure  you 
are  very  fond  of  masquerade  balls. 

Rank.  When  there  are  plenty  of  interesting  masks  present,  I  certainly 
am.  .  .  . 

Helmer.  .  .  .  But  what  character  will  you  take  [at  our  next  masquerade]  .'* 

Rank.  I  am  perfectly  clear  as  to  that,  my  dear  friend. 

Helmer.  Well.? 

Rank.  At  the  next  masquerade  I  shall  appear  invisible. 

Helmer.  What  a  comical  idea  ! 

Rank.  Don't  you  know  there  is  a  big  black  hat — haven't  you  heard 
stories  of  the  hat  that  made  people  invisible  ?  You  pull  it  all  over  you,  and 
then  nobody  sees  you.  .  .  .  But  I  am  quite  forgetting  why  I  came  in  here. 
Helmer,  just  give  me  a  cigar — one  of  the  dark  Havanas.  .  .  .  Thanks. 
{He  lights  his  cigar.)  And  now  good-bye  .  .  .  and  thank  you  for  the  light. 
\^He  7iods  to  them  both  and  goes. — A  DoWs  House.,  pp.  96-100. 

*  Frau  Alving  is  speaking  with  Pastor  Manders,  and  is  just  relating  that 
she  was  one  day  witness  to  a  scene  in  the  adjoining  room  which  proved  to 
her  that  her  departed  husband  was  carrying  on  an  intrigue  with  her  maid- 
servant. In  the  next  room  are  Os^vald,  her  son,  and  Regina,  the  offspring 
of  the  intercourse  of  her  husband  with  the  maid-servant. 

\_From  within  the  dining  room  comes  the  noise  of  a  chair  overturned, 
aftd  at  the  same  moment  is  heard  : 

Regina  {sharply,  but  whispering).  Oswald,  take  care  !  Are  you  mad  ? 
Let  me  go  ! 

Mrs.  Alving  {starts  in  terror).  Ah  !  {She  stares  wildly  towards  the 
half -opened  door  J  O^'^hl.V)  is  heard  coughing  and  humming  inside.  A  bottle 
is  uncorked?) 

Manders  {excited).  What  in  the  world  is  the  matter?  What  is  it,  Mrs 
Alving? 

Mrs.  Alving  {hoarsely).  Ghosts  !  The  couple  from  the  conservatory 
have  risen  again  ! — Ghosts,  The  Pillars  of  Society,  and  other  Plays.  By 
Henrik  Ibsen,  Camelot  Series,  p.  150. 

f  Frau  Helseth  has  in  vain  sought  for  Rosmer  and  Rebecca  in  the  house. 

Madame  Helseth  {goes  to  the  w'ndow  and  looks  out).  Oh,  good  God! 
that  white  thing  there  ! — My  soul  !  They're  both  of  them  out  on  the  bridge  ! 
God  forgive  the  sinful  creatures  —  if  they're  not  in  each  other's  arms  ! 
{Shrieks  aloud.)  Oh — down — both  of  them  !  Out  into  the  mill-race  !  Help  ! 
help  !  {Her  knees  tremble,  she  holds  on  to  the  chair-back,  shaking  all  over ; 
she  can  scarcely  get  the  words  out.)  No.  No  help  here.  The  dead  wife 
has  taken  them. — Rosmerhohn.  London,  Walter  Scott,  p.  144.  The  last 
sentence  is  not  a  happy  one.  It  is  commonplace,  upsetting  the  mood  of  the 
hearer  or  reader. 


342  DEGENERATION 

it.  Ibsen  has  had  the  daring  to  create  a  female  Sancho,  and 
in  his  temerity  has  come  very  near  to  Cervantes,  whom  no  one 
has  equalled.  If  Gina  is  not  quite  so  overpowering  as  Sancho, 
it  is  because  there  is  wanting  in  her  his  contrast  to  Don 
Quixote.  Her  Don  Quixote,  Hjalmar,  is  no  genuine,  convinced 
idealist,  but  merely  a  miserable  self-deluding  burlesquer  of  the 
ideal.  None  the  less,  no  poet  since  the  illustrious  Spanish 
master  has  succeeded  in  creating  such  an  embodiment  of  plain, 
jolly,  healthy  common-sense,  of  practical  tact  without  anxiety 
as  to  things  eternal,  and  of  honest  fulfilment  of  all  proximate, 
obvious  duties,  without  a  suspicion  of  higher  moral  obligations, 
as  this  Gina,  e.g.,  in  the  scene  where  Hjalmar  returns  home  after 
having  spent  the  night  out.*  Hjalmar  also  is  a  perfect  crea- 
tion, in  which  Ibsen  has  not  once  succumbed  to  the  cogent 
temptation  to  exaggerate,  but  has  exercised  most  entranc- 
ingly  that  '  self-restraint '  in  every  word  which,  as  Goethe  said, 
'  reveals  the  master.'  Little  Hedwig  (again  in  The  Wild  Duck), 
the  aunt  Juliane  Tesman  (in  Hedda  Gabler),  perhaps  also  the 
childishly  egoistical  consumptive  Lyngstrand  (in  The  Lady  f rein 
the  Sea),  are  not  inferior  to  these  characters.  It  should,  however, 
be  noticed  that,  with  the  exception  of  Gina,  Hjalmar  and 
Hedwig,  the  lifelike  and  artistically  delightful  persons  in  Ibsen's 
dramas  never  play  the  chief  parts,  but  move  in  subordinate 
tasks  around  the  central  figures.  The  latter  are  not  human 
beings  of  flesh  and  blood,  but  abstractions  such  as  are  evoked 
by  a  morbidly  -  excited  brain.  They  are  attempts  at  the 
embodiment  of  Ibsenite  doctrines,  homunculi,  originating  not 
from  natural  procreation,  but  through  the  black  art  of  the  poet. 

*  Hjalmar  has  passed  the  night  away  from  home,  having  learned  that  his 
wife  before  her  marriage  with  him  had  had  a  liaiso7i  with  another.  He 
returns  in  the  morning,  crapulous  and  hipped.  He  is  bombastic  and  melo- 
dramatic, while  his  wife  is  calm  and  practical  : — 

Gina  {standmg  with  the  brush  ifi  her  hand,  and  looking  at  him).  Oh, 
there  now,  Ekdal  ;  so  you've  come  after  all  ? 

HJA.LMAR  {comes  in  and  an:,wers  in  a  toneless  voice).  I  come — only  to 
depart  again  immediately. 

Gina.  Yfs,  yes  ;  I  suppose  so.     But,  Lord  help  us,  what  a  sight  you  are  ! 

Hjalmar.  A  sight  ? 

Gina.  And  your  nice  winter  coat,  too  !  Well,  that's  done  for.  .  .  .  Then, 
you  are  still  bent  on  leaving  us,  Ekdal } 

Hjalmar.  Yes  ;  that's  a  matter  of  course,  I  should  think. 

Gina.  Well,  well  .  .  .  {Sets  a  tray  with  coffee,  etc.,  on  the  table.)  Here's 
a  di-op  of  something  warm,  if  you'd  like  it.  And  there's  some  bread  and 
butter  and  a  snack  of  salt  meat. 

Hjalmar  {glancing  at  the  tray).  Salt  meat  !  Never  under  this  roof! 
It's  true  I  haven't  had  a  moutl.ful  of  solid  food  for  nearly  twenty-four  hours, 
but  no  matter.  .  .  .  Oh  no,  I  must  go  out  into  the  storm  and  the  snow- 
blast — go  from  house  to  house  and  seek  shelter  for  my  father  and  myself. 

Gina.  But  you've  got  no  hat,  Ekdal.  You've  lost  your  hat,  you  know,  etc. 
—The  Wild  Duck,  Act  V. 


EGO-MANIA  343 

This  is  even  admitted,  although  reluctantly  and  with  reserva- 
tion, by  one  of  his  most  raving  panegyrists,  the  French  pro- 
fessor, Auguste  Ehrhard.*  Doubtless  Ibsen  takes  immense 
pains  to  rouge  and  powder  into  a  semblance  of  life  the  talking 
puppets  who  are  to  represent  his  notions.  He  appends  to  them 
all  sorts  of  little  peculiarities  for  the  purpose  of  giving  them  an 
individual  physiognomy.  But  this  perpetually  recurring  imbecile 
'  Eh  ?'  of  Tesman-|-  (in  Hedda  Gabler),  this  '  dash  it  all  !'  and 
stealthy  nibbling  of  sweetmeats  by  Nora|  (in  A  DolPs  House), 
this  'smoking  a  large  meerschaum'  and  champagne-drinking 
of  Oswald  (in  Ghosts),  do  not  delude  the  attentive  observer  as 
to  their  being  anything  but  automata.  In  spite  of  the  poet's 
artifices,  one  sees,  behind  the  thin  varnish  of  flesh-colour,  the 
hinges  and  joints  of  the  mechanism,  and  hears,  above  the  tones 
of  the  phonographs  concealed  in  them,  the  creaking  and  grating 
of  the  machinery. 

I  have  endeavoured  to  do  justice  to  the  high  poetical  endow- 
ment of  Ibsen,  and  shall  sometimes  be  able  in  the  course  of  this 
inquiry  to  recognise  this  gift  again.  Is  it  this,  however,  which 
alone  or  chiefly  has  gained  for  him  his  admirers  in  all  lands  ? 
Do  his  retinue  of  fifers  and  bagpipers  prize  him  for  his  homely 
emotional  scenes,  and  for  his  truly  lifelike  accessory  figures  ? 
No.  They  glorify  something  else  in  him.  They  discover  in  his 
pieces  world-pictures  of  the  greatest  truth,  the  happiest  poetic 
use  of  scientific  methods,  clearness  and  incisiveness  of  ideas,  a 
fiercely  revolutionary  desire  for  freedom,  and  a  modernity  preg- 
nant with  the  future.  Now  we  will  test  and  examine  these 
affirmations  seriatim,  and   see   if  they   can    be   supported    by 

*  Auguste  Ehrhard,  Professor  k  la  Faculty  des  Lettres  de  Clermont- 
Ferrand,  Henrik  Ibsen  et  le  Theatre  conteuiporam,  Paris,  1892,  p.  233  : 
'  Ibsen's  characters  may  in  general  be  divided  into  two  categories — those  in 
which  the  moral  element,  the  life  of  the  soul,  dominates,  and  those  in  which 
the  animal  prevails.  The  first  are,  for  the  most  part,  mouthpieces  of  the 
theories  dear  to  the  poet.  .  .  .  They  have  their  primary  origin  in  the  brain 
of  the  poet.  ...  It  is  he  who  gives  them  life.' 

f  Right  out  here  so  early — eh  .?  .  .  .  Well,  did  you  get  safe  home  from 
the  quay — eh?  Look  here.  Let  me  untie  the' bow — eh?  etc. — Hedda 
Gabler.     London,  W.  Heinemann,  pp.  7-9. 

X  Nora.  Yes,  I  really  am  now  in  a  state  of  extraordinary  happiness.  There 
is  only  one  thing  in  the  world  that  I  should  really  like. 

Rank.  Well,  and  what's  that  ? 

Nora.  There's  something  that  I  should  so  like  to  say — but  for  Torvald  to 
hear  it. 

Rank.  Then,  why  don't  you  say  it  to  him  ? 

Nora.  Because  I  daren't,  for  it  sounds  so  ugly.  .  .  . 

Rank.  In  that  case  I  would  advise  yo'u  not  to  say  it.  But  you  might  say 
it  to  us,  at  any  rate.  .  .  .  What  is  it  that  you  would  like  to  say  in  Helmer's 
presence  ? 

Nora.  I  should  like  to  shout  with  all  my  heart — Oh  dash  it  all  —A 
Doll's  House,  op.  cit.,  pp.  26,  27. 


344  DEGENERATION 

Ibsen's  works,  or  are  merely  the  arbitrary  and  undemonstrable 
expressions  of  aesthetic  wind-bags. 

It  is  pretended  that  Ibsen  is  before  all  things  exemplary  in 
truthfulness.  He  has  even  become  the  model  of  '  realism.'  As 
a  matter  of  fact,  since  Alexandre  Dumas  pere,  author  of  The 
Three  Musketeers  and  Monte  Crista,  no  writer  has  heaped  up  in 
his  works  so  many  startling  improbabilities  as  Ibsen.  (I  say  im- 
probabilities, because  I  dare  not  say  impossibilities  ;  for,  after  all, 
everything  is  possible  as  the  unheard-of  exploit  of  some  fool, 
or  as  the  extraordinary  eiTect  of  a  unique  accident.)  Is  it 
conceivable  that  (in  Ghosts)  the  joiner  Engstrand,  wishing 
to  open  a  tavern  for  sailors,  should  call  upon  his  own  daughter 
to  be  the  odalisque  of  his  'establishment' — this  daughter 
who  reminds  him  that  she  has  been  '  brought  up  in  the  house 
of  Madam  Alving,  widow  of  a  lord-in-waiting,'  that  she  has 
been  treated  '  almost  as  a  child  of  the  house  '.-'  Not  that  I 
imagine  Engstrand  to  be  possessed  of  any  moral  scruples.  But 
a  man  of  this  stamp  knows  that  one  woman  does  not  suffice  for 
his  house ;  and  since  he  must  engage  others,  he  would  certainly  not 
turn  to  his  daughter,  bred  as  she  was  in  the  midst  of  higher  habits 
of  life,  and  knowing  that,  if  she  wishes  to  lead  a  life  of  pleasure, 
it  would  not  be  necessary  to  become  straightway  a  prostitute  for 
sailors.  Is  it  conceivable  that  Pastor  Manders  {Ghosts),  a 
liberally  educated  clergyman  in  the  Norway  of  to-day,  a  country 
of  flourishing  insurance  companies,  banks,  railways,  prosperous 
newspapers,  etc.,  should  dissuade  Madam  Alving  from  insuring 
against  fire  the  asylum  she  had  just  founded  ?  '  For  my  own 
part,'  he  says,  '  I  should  not  see  the  smallest  impropriety  in 
guarding  against  all  contingencies.  ...  I  mean  [by  really 
responsible  people]  men  in  such  independent  and  influential 
positions  that  one  cannot  help  allowing  some  weight  to  their 
opinions.  .  .  .  People  would  be  only  too  ready  to  interpret  our 
action  as  a  sign  that  neither  you  nor  I  had  the  right  faith  in  a 
Higher  Providence.'  Does  Ibsen  really  wish  to  make  anyone 
believe  that  in  Norway  there  are  persons  who  have  religious 
scruples  concerning  insurance  against  fire  ?  Has  not  this 
nonsensical  idea  come  into  his  head  simply  because  he  wishes 
to  have  the  asylum  burned  down  and  finally  destroyed  .''  For 
this  purpose  Madam  Alving  must  have  no  money  to  rebuild  the 
asylum,  it  must  not  be  insured,  and  hence  Ibsen  thought  it 
necessary  to  assign  a  motive  for  the  omission  of  the  insurance. 
A  poet  who  introduces  a  fire  into  his  work,  as  a  symbol  and 
also  as  an  active  agent— for  it  has  the  dramatic  purpose  of 
destroying  the  lying  reputation  for  charity  of  the  defunct  sinner 
Alving — should  also  have  the  courage  to  leave  unexplained  the 
omi.ssion  of  the  insurance,  strange  as  it  may  seem.  Oswald 
Alving  relates  to  his  mother  {Ghosts)  that  a  Paris  doctor  on 


EGO-MANIA  345 

examining  him  had  told  him  he  had  a  *  kind  of  softening  of  the 
brain.'  Now,  I  appeal  to  all  the  doctors  of  the  world  if  they 
have  ever  said  plainly  to  a  patient,  '  You  have  softening  of  the 
brain.'  To  the  family  it  perhaps  may  be  revealed,  to  the  patient 
never.  Chiefly  because,  if  the  diagnosis  be  correct,  the  invalid 
would  not  understand  the  remark,  and  would  certainly  no  longer 
be  in  a  fit  state  to  go  alone  to  the  doctor.  But  for  yet  another 
reason  these  words  are  impossible.  In  any  case,  Oswald's 
disease  could  not  have  been  a  softening,  but  a  hardening,  a 
callous,  sclerotic  condition  of  the  brain. 

In  A  Doll's  House  Helmer,  who  is  depicted  as  somewhat 
sensual,  although  prosaic,  homely,  practical,  and  common- 
place, says  to  his  Nora :  *  Is  that  my  lark  who  is  twittering 
outside  there?  ...  Is  the  little  squirrel  running  about.-*  .  .  . 
Has  my  little  spendthrift  bird  been  wasting  more  money  ?  .  .  . 
Come,  come  ;  my  lark  must  not  let  her  wings  droop  immediately. 
.  .  .  What  do  people  call  the  bird  who  always  spends  every- 
thing? .  .  .  My  lark  is  the  dearest  little  thing  in  the  world; 
but  she  needs  a  very  great  deal  of  money.  .  .  .  And  I  couldn't 
wish  you  to  be  anything  but  exactly  what  you  are — my  own  true 
little  lark.  .  .  .'  And  it  is  thus  that  a  husband,  a  bank  director 
and  barrister,  after  eight  years  of  married  life,  speaks  to  his  wife, 
the  mother  of  his  three  children  ;  and  not  in  a  momentary  out- 
burst of  playful  affection,  but  in  the  full  light  of  an  ordinary  day, 
and  in  an  interminable  scene  of  seven  pages  (pp.  2-8),  with  a 
view  to  giving  us  an  idea  of  the  habitually  prevalent  tone  in  this 
'doll's  home!'  I  should  much  like  to  know  what  my  readers  of 
both  sexes  who  have  been  married  at  least  eight  years  think  of 
this  specimen  of  Ibsen's  '  realism.' 

In  The  Pillars  of  Society  all  the  characters  talk  about 
'society.'  'You  are  to  rise  and  support  society,  brother-in-law,' 
says  Miss  Hessel,  'earnestly  and  with  emphasis,'  '  If  you  strike 
this  blow,  you  ruin  me  utterly,  and  not  only  me,  but  also  a  great 
and  blessed  future  for  the  community  which  was  the  home  of 
your  childhood.'  And  a  little  further  on :  '  See,  this  I  have 
dared  for  the  good  of  the  community  !  .  .  .  Don't  you  see  that 
it  is  society  itself  that  forces  us  into  these  subterfuges?'  The 
persons  thus  holding  forth  are  a  wholesale  merchant  and  consul, 
and  a  school-mistress  who  has  long  resided  in  America,  and  has 
broad  views.  Can  the  word  '  society  '  in  the  mouth  of  cultivated 
people,  when  so  used,  have  any  other  meaning  than  '  social 
edifice  .'''  Well,  but  the  characters  in  the  piece,  as  it  is  again  and 
again  repeated,  employ  the  word  'society'  in  reference  to  the 
well-to-do  classes  in  a  small  seaside  place  in  Norway — that  is, 
to  a  clique  of  six  or  eight  families  !  Ibsen  makes  the  readers  of 
his  piece  believe  that  it  is  a  question  of  upholding  the  social 
edifice,  and   they  learn  with  astonishment  that  this  only  con- 


346  DEGENERATION 

cerns  the  protection  of  a  diminutive  coterie  of  Philistines  in  a 
northern  Gotham. 

The  American  ship  Indian  Girl  is  undergoing  repairs  in 
Consul  Bernick's  dock.  Her  hull  is  quite  rotten.  If  she 
is  sent  to  sea  she  will  assuredly  founder.  Bernick,  however, 
insists  that  she  shall  sail  in  two  days.  His  foreman  Aune 
pronounces  this  impossible.  Then  Bernick  threatens  Aune 
with  dismissal,  at  which  the  latter  yields,  and  promises  that 
'  in  two  days  the  Indian  Girl  will  be  ready  to  sail.'  Bernick 
knows  that  he  is  sending  the  Indian  Girls  crew  of  eighteen  men 
to  certain  death.  And  why  does  he  commit  this  wholesale 
murder?  He  gives  the  following  explanation:  'I  have  my 
reasons  for  hurrying  on  the  affair.  Have  you  read  this  morn- 
ing's paper  }  Ah  !  then  you  know  that  the  Americans  have 
been  making  disturbances  again.  The  shameless  pack  put  the 
whole  town  topsy-turvy.  Not  a  night  passes  without  fights  in 
the  taverns  or  on  the  street,  not  to  speak  of  other  abominations. 
.  .  .  And  who  gets  the  blame  for  all  this  disturbance  }  It  is 
I — yes,  I — that  suffer  for  it.  These  newspaper  scribblers  are 
always  covertly  carping  at  us  for  giving  our  whole  attention  to 
the  Palm  Tree.  And  I,  whose  mission  it  is  to  be  an  example  to 
my  fellow-citizens,  must  have  such  things  thrown  in  my  teeth  ! 
I  cannot  bear  it.  It  won't  do  for  me  to  have  my  name  be- 
spattered in  this  way.  .  .  .  Not  just  now ;  precisely  at  this 
moment  I  need  all  the  respect  and  good-will  of  my  fellow- 
citizens.  I  have  a  great  undertaking  on  hand,  as  you  have 
probably  heard  ;  but  if  evil-disposed  persons  succeed  in  shaking 
people's  unqualified  confidence  in  me,  it  may  involve  me  in  the 
greatest  difficulties.  So  I  must  silence  these  carping  and  spite- 
ful scribblers  at  any  price,  and  that  is  why  I  give  you  till  the 
day  after  to-morrow.'  This  paltry  motive  for  the  coldly-planned 
murder  of  eighteen  men  is  so  ridiculous  that  even  Ehrhard,  who 
admires  everything  in  Ibsen,  dares  not  defend  it,  and  timidly 
remarks  that  '  the  author  does  not  very  well  explain  why  the 
anxiety  for  his  reputation  should  require  the  sending  to  sea  of 
a  vessel  which  he  has  not  had  time  thoroughly  to  repair,'* 

At  the  head  of  a  delegation  of  his  fellow-citizens,  sent  to 
thank  him  for  the  establishment  of  a  railway,  Pastor  Rorlund 
delivers  an  address  to  Bernick  in  which  the  following  passages 
occur :  '  We  have  often  expressed  to  you  our  gratitude  for  the 
broad  moral  foundation  upon  which  you  have,  so  to  speak,  built 
up  our  society.  This  time  we  chiefly  hail  in  you  the  .  .  . 
citizen,  who  has  taken  the  initiative  in  an  undertaking  which, 
we  are  credibly  assured,  will  give  a  powerful  impetus  to  the 
temporal  prosperity  and  well-being  of  the  community.  .  .  .  You 
are  in  an  eminent  sense  the  pillar  and  corner-stone  of  this  com- 

*  Auguste  Ehrhard,  op.  cit.,  p.  270. 


EGO-MANIA  347 

munity.  .  .  .  And  it  is  just  this  light  of  disinterestedness 
shining  over  all  your  actions  that  is  so  unspeakably  beneficent, 
especially  in  these  times.  You  are  now  on  the  point  of  procuring 
for  us — I  do  not  hesitate  to  say  the  word  plainly  and  prosaically 
■ — a  railway.  .  .  .  But  you  cannot  reject  a  slight  token  of  your 
grateful  fellow  -  citizens'  appreciation,  least  of  all  on  this 
momentous  occasion,  when,  according  to  the  assurances  of 
practical  men,  we  are  standing  on  the  threshold -of  a  new  era.' 
I  have  not  interrupted  by  a  single  remark  or  note  of  exclama- 
tion this  unheard-of  balderdash.  It  shall  produce  its  own 
unaided  effect  upon  the  reader.  If  this  nonsense  appeared  in 
a  burlesque  farce,  it  would  be  hardly  funny  enough,  but  other- 
wise acceptable.  Now,  this  claims  to  be  'realistic'!  We  are 
to  take  Ibsen's  word  for  it  that  Pastor  Rorlund  was  sober  when 
he  made  this  speech !  A  more  insulting  demand  has  never 
been  made  by  an  author  on  his  readers. 

In  An  Eneviy  of  Society  the  subject  treats  of  a  rather  in- 
comprehensible bathing  establishment,  comprising  at  once 
mineral  waters,  medicinal  baths  and  sea-bathing.  The  doctor 
of  the  establishment  has  discovered  that  the  springs  are  con- 
taminated with  typhoid  bacilli,  and  insists  that  the  water  shall 
be  taken  from  a  place  higher  up  in  the  mountains,  where  it 
would  not  be  polluted  by  sewage.  He  is  the  more  urgent  in  his 
demands,  as  without  this  precaution  a  fatal  epidemic  will  break 
out  among  the  visitors.  And  to  this  the  burgomaster  of  the 
town  is  supposed  to  reply :  'The  existing  supply  of  water  for 
the  baths  is  once  for  all  a  fact,  and  must  naturally  be  treated 
as  such.  But  probably  the  directors,  at  some  future  time,  will 
not  be  indisposed  to  take  into  their  consideration  whether,  by 
making  certain  pecuniary  sacrifices,  it  may  not  be  possible  to 
introduce  some  improvements.'  This  is  a  question  of  a  place 
which,  as  Ibsen  insists,  has  staked  its  future  on  the  development 
of  its  youthful  bathing  establishment ;  the  place  is  situated  in 
Norway,  in  a  small  district  where  all  the  inhabitants  are 
mutually  acquainted,  and  where  every  case  of  illness  and  death 
is  noticed  by  all.  A.nd  the  burgomaster  .will  run  the  risk  of 
having  a  number  of  the  visitors  at  the  establishment  attacked 
with  typhoid,  when  he  is  forewarned  that  this  will  certainly 
happen  if  the  conduit  pipes  of  the  spring  are  not  transferred. 
Without  having  an  exaggeratedly  high  opinion  of  the  burgo- 
master mind  in  general,  I  deny  that  any  idiot  such  as  Ibsen 
depicts  is  at  the  head  of  the  local  administration  of  any  town 
whatsoever  in  Europe. 

Tesman,  in  Hedda  Gabler,  expects  that  his  publication,  Domestic 
Industries  of  Brabant  during  the  Middle  Ages,  will  secure  him  a 
professorship  in  a  college.  But  he  has  a  dangerous  competitor 
in  Ejlert  Lovborg,  who  has  published  a  book  on  The  General 


348  DEGENERATION 

March  of  Civilization.  This  work  has  already  made  a  '  great 
sensation,'  but  the  sequel  is  far  to  surpass  this,  and  *  treats  of 
the  future.'  '  But,  good  gracious !  we  don't  know  anything 
about  that!'  someone  objects.  'No;  but  there  are  several 
things  though  can  be  said  about  it,  all  the  same.  ...  It  is 
divided  into  two  sections.  The  first  is  about  the  civilizing 
forces  of  the  future,  and  the  other  is  about  the  civilizing  progress 
of  the  future.' .  Special  stress  is  laid  upon  the  fact  that  it  lies 
wholly  outside  the  domain  of  science,  and  consists  in  mere 
prophecy.  '  Do  you  believe  it  impossible  to  reproduce  such  a 
work — that  it  cannot  be  written  a  second  time  ?  No.  .  .  .  For  the 
inspiration,  you  know.  ,  .  .'  We  are  acquainted,  were  it  only 
through  popular  histories  of  morals  such  as  the  Deinocritus  of 
Karl  Julius  Weber,  with  the  strange  questions  with  which  the 
casuists  of  the  Middle  Ages  used  to  occupy  themselves.  But 
that,  in  our  century,  such  works  as  those  of  Tesman  and  Lovborg 
could  gain  for  their  authors  a  professorship  of  any  kind  in  either 
hemisphere,  or  even  the  position  of  privat  doccnt,  is  an  infantile 
invention,  fit  to  raise  a  laugh  in  all  academical  circles. 

In  The  Lady  from  the  Sea  the  mysterious  sailor  returns  to 
find  that  his  old  sweetheart  has  been  for  some  years  the  wife  of 
Dr.  Wangel.  He  urges  her  to  follow  him,  saying  she  really 
belongs  to  him.  The  husband  is  present  at  the  interview.  He 
shows  the  stranger  that  he  is  wrong  in  wishing  to  carry  off  EUida. 
He  represents  to  the  sailor  that  it  would  be  preferable  if  he 
addressed  himself  to  him  (the  husband),  and  not  to  the  wife. 
He  mildly  remonstrates  with  the  stranger  for  addressing  EUida 
with  the  familiar  'thou,'  and  calling  her  by  her  Christian  name. 
*  Such  a  familiarity  is  not  customary  with  us,  sir.'  The  scene  is 
unspeakably  comic,  and  would  be  worthy  of  reproduction  in  its 
entirety.     We  will  limit  ourselves  to  quoting  the  conclusion  : — 

Stranger.  To-morrow  night  I  will  come  again,  and  then  I  shall  look 
for  you  here.  You  must  wait  for  me  here  in  the  garden,  for  I  prefer  settling 
the  matter  with  you  alone.     You  understand  ? 

Ellida  {in  low,  treinbling  tone).  Do  you  hear  that,  Wangel  ? 

Wangel.  Only  keep  calm.     We  shall  know  how  to  prevent  this  visit. 

Stranger.  Good-bye  for  the  present,  Ellida.     So  to-morrow  night • 

Ellida  {iiuploringly).  Oh,  no,  no  !  Do  not  come  to-morrow  night  ! 
Never  come  here  agam  I 

Stranger.  And  should  you,  then,  have  a  mind  to  follow  me  over  seas  ? 

Ellida.  Oh,  don't  look  at  me  like  that  ! 

Stranger.  I  only  mean  that  you  must  then  be  ready  to  set  out. 

Wangel.  Go  up  to  the  house,  Ellida,  etc. 

And  Ibsen  depicts  Wangel,  not  as  a  senile,  debile  old  man,  but 
in  the  prime  of  life  and  in  full  possession  of  all  his  faculties  ! 

All  these  crack-brained  episodes  are,  however,  far  surpassed  by 
the  scene  in  Rosmersholm,  where  Rebecca  confesses  to  the  doughty 
Rosmer  that  she  is  consumed  by  ardent  passion  for  him  : — 


EGO-MANIA  349 

ROSMER.  What  have  you  felt?     Speak  so  that  I  can  understand  you, 

Rebecca.  It  came  over  me — this  wild,  uncontrollable  desire — oh,  Rosmer ! 

RoSMER.  Desire?     You!     For  whai  ? 

Rebecca.  For  you. 

RoSMER  {b'ies  to  spring  up).  What  is  this  ?     [Idiot !] 

Rebecca  (stops  him).  Sit  still,  dear;  there  is  more  to  tell. 

Rosmer.  And  you  mean  to  say — that  you  love  me — in  that  way? 

Rebecca.  I  thought  that  it  should  be  called  love.  Yes,  I  thought  it  was 
love  ;  but  it  was  not.  It  was  what  I  said.  It  was  a  wild,  uncontrollable 
desire.  ...  It  came  upon  me  like  a  storm  on  the  sea.  It  was  like  one  of 
the  storms  we  sometimes  have  in  the  North  in  the  winter-time.  It  seizes 
you — and  sweeps  you  along  with  it — whither  it  will.  Resistance  is  out  of 
the  question.' 

Rosmer,  the  object  of  this  burning  passion,  is  forty-three  years 
old,  and  has  been  a  clergyman.  This  makes  it  somewhat 
droll,  but  not  impossible,  for  erotomaniacs  can  love  all  sorts  of 
creatures,  even  boots.*  What,  however,  is  inconceivable  is  the 
way  in  which  the  nymphomaniac  sets  about  satisfying  her  'wild, 
uncontrollable  desire,' this  'storm  upon  the  sea'  which  'seizes 
you,  and  sweeps  you  along  with  it'  She  had  become  the  friend 
of  Rosmer's  sickly  wife,  and  had  for  eighteen  months  tormented 
her  by  hinting  that  Rosmer  is  unhappy  because  she  has  no 
children,  that  he  loves  her,  the  nymphomaniac,  but  has  con- 
trolled his  passion  as  long  as  his  wife  is  living.  By  means  of  this 
poison,  patiently  and  unceasingly  dropped  into  her  soul,  she  had 
happily  driven  her  to  suicide.  After  a  year  and  a  half!  To 
appease  her  '  wild,  uncontrollable  passion  ' !  This  is  exactly  as 
if  a  man  driven  wild  by  hunger  should,  with  a  view  to  satisfy- 
ing his  craving,  devise  a  deep  plan  for  obtaining  a  field  by  fraud, 
so  that  he  might  grow  wheat,  have  it  ground,  and  afterwards  bake 
himself  a  splendid  loaf,  which  would  then  be  Oh,  so  delicious ! 
The  reader  may  judge  for  himself  if  this  is  the  usual  way  in 
which  famished  persons,  or  nymphomaniacs  over  whom  passion 
'  sweeps  like  a  storm  upon  the  sea,'  satisfy  their  impulses. 

Such  are  the  presentations  of  the  world's  realities  as  figured 
to  himself  by  this  '  realist ' !  Many  of  his  infantile  or  silly  lucu- 
brations are  petty,  superficial  details,  and  a  benevolent  friend, 
with  some  experience  of  life  and  some  common-sense,  could  easily 
have  preserved  himi  in  advance  from  making  himself  ridiculous. 
Others  of  his  inventions,  however,  touch  the  very  essence  of  his 
poems  and  convert  these  into  out  and  out  grotesque  moonshine. 
In  The  Pillars  of  Society,  Bernick,  the  man  who  calmly  plans  the 

*  Dr.  R.  von  Krafft-Ebing,  Psychopathia  sexiialis  mit  besonderer  Beriick- 
sichtigung  der  co7ttrd7'en  Sexualcmpjindung.  Eine  klinisch-forensische 
Stiidie.  Dritte  vermehrte  und  verbesserte  Auflage.  Stuttgart,  1888.  See 
(p.  120)  the  observation  relative  to  the  young  nobleman  who  was  erotically 
excited  by  his  'boot-thoughts.'  I  cite  this  single  case  only,  but  it  would  be 
possible  to  instance  dozens  of  cases  where  nightcaps,  shoe-nails,  white 
aprons,  the  wrinkled  head  of  an  old  woman,  etc.,  have  excited  sensuality  in 
the  highest  degree. 


350  DEGENERATION 

murder  of  eighteen  men  to  maintain  his  reputation  as  a  capable 
dock-owner  (we  may  remark,  in  passing,  the  absurdity  of  this 
means  for  attaining  such  an  end),  all  at  once  confesses  to  his 
fellow-citizens,  without  any  compulsion,  and  solely  on  the  advice 
of  Miss  Hessel,  that  he  has  been  a  villain  and  a  criminal.  In 
A  DoWs  House,  the  wife,  who  was  only  a  moment  before  playing 
so  tenderly  with  her  children,  suddenly  abandons  these  children 
without  a  thought  for  them.*  In  Rosmersholm  we  are  to  believe 
that  the  nymphomaniac  Rebecca,  while  in  constant  intercourse 
with  the  object  of  her  flame,  has  become  chaste  and  virtuous, 
etc.  Many  of  Ibsen's  principal  characters  present  this  spectacle 
of  impossible  and  incomprehensible  metamorphoses,  so  that 
they  look  like  figures  composed  of  odd  halves,  which  some 
bungling  artisan  has  stuck  together. 

After  the  life-like  truthfulness  of  Ibsen,  let  us  inquire  into  the 
scientific  character  of  his  work.  This  reminds  us  of  the  civiliza- 
tion of  Liberian  negroes.  The  constitution  and  laws  of  that  West 
African  republic  read  very  much  like  those  of  the  United  States 
of  North  America,  and  on  paper  command  our  respect.  But 
anyone  living  in  Liberia  very  soon  recognises  the  fact  that  these 
black  republicans  are  savages,  having  no  idea  of  the  political 
institutions  nominally  existing  among  them,  of  their  code  of 
laws,  etc.  Ibsen  likes  to  give  himself  the  appearance  of  stand- 
ing in  the  domain  of  natural  science  and  of  profiting  by  its  latest 
results.  In  his  plays  Darwin  is  quoted.  He  has  evidently 
dipped,  though  with  a  careless  hand,  into  books  on  heredity, 
and  has  picked  up  something  about  medical  science.  But  the 
scanty,  ludicrously  misunderstood  stock  phrases  which  have  re- 
mained in  his  memory  are  made  use  of  by  him  much  as  my 
illustrative  Liberian  negro  uses  the  respectable  paper  collars 
and  top-hats  of  Europe.  The  expert  can  never  preserve  his 
gravity  when  Ibsen  displays  his  scientific  and  medical  know- 
ledge. 

Heredity  is  his  hobby-horse,  which  he  mounts  in  every  one  of 
his  pieces.  There  is  not  a  single  trait  in  his  personages,  a  single 
peculiarity  of  character,  a  single  disease,  that  he  does  not  trace 
to  heredity.  In  A  Doll's  House,  Dr.  Rank's  '  poor  innocent 
spine  must  do  penance  for  "his"  father's  notions  of  amusement 
when  he  was  a  lieutenant  in  the  army.'  Helmer  explains  to 
Nora  that  '  a  misty  atmosphere  of  lying  brings  contagion  into 
the  whole  family.     Every  breath   the   children    draw  contains 

*  A  DoWs  House,  p.  112  : 

Helmer.  To  forsake  your  home,  your  husband,  and  your  children  !  And 
only  think  what  people  will  say  about  it. 

Nora.  I  cannot  take  that  into  consideration.  I  only  know  that  to  go  is 
necessary  for  me.  ... 

Helmer.    .  .  .  Your  duties  to  .  .  .  your  children  ? 

Nora.  I  have  other  duties  equally  sacred  .  .  .  duties  towards  myself,  etc. 


EGO-MANIA  351 

some  germ  of  evil.  .  .  .  Nearly  all  men  who  go  to  ruin  early- 
have  had  untruthful  mothers.  ...  In  most  cases  it  comes  from 
the  mother ;  but  the  father  naturally  works  in  the  same  direc- 
tion.' And  again :  '  Your  father's  low  principles  you  have 
inherited,  every  one  of  them.  No  religion,  no  morality,  no 
sense  of  duty.'  In  Ghosts  Oswald  has  learned  from  the  extra- 
ordinary doctor  in  Paris  who  told  him  he  had  softening  of  the 
brain,  that  he  had  inherited  his  malady  from  his  father."* 
Regina,  the  natural  daughter  of  the  late  Alving,  exactly  re- 
sembles her  mother. 

Regina  {to  herself).  So  mother  was  that  kind  of  woman,  after  all. 

Mrs.  Alving.  Your  mother  had  many  good  qualities,  Regina. 

Regina.  Yes  ;  but  she  was  one  of  that  sort,  all  the  same.  Oh  !  I've  often 
suspected  it.  .  .  A  poor  girl  must  make  the  best  of  her  young  days.  .  .  . 
And  I,  too,  want  to  enjoy  my  life,  Mrs.  Alving. 

Mrs.  Alving,  Yes,  I  see  you  do.     But  don't  throw  yourself  away,  Regina. 

Regina.  Oh  !  what  must  be,  must  be.  If  Oswald  takes  after  his  father,  I 
take  after  my  mother,  I  dare  say. 

In  RosmersJiolm  Rebecca's  nymphomania  is  explained  by  the 
fact  that  she  is  the  natural  daughter  of  a  Lapland  woman  of 
doubtful  morals,  '  I  believe  your  whole  conduct  is  determined 
by  your  origin,'  Rector  Kroll  says  to  her  (p.  ^2).  Rosmer 
never  laughs,  because  'it  is  a  trait  of  his  family.'  He  is  ^  the 
descendant  of  the  men  that  look  down  on  us  from  these  walls ' 
(p.  80).  His  'spirit  is  deeply  rooted  in  his  ancestry'  (p,  80). 
Hilda,  the  stepdaughter  of  the  *  Lady  from  the  Sea,'  says  :  '  I 
should  not  wonder  if  some  fine  day  she  went  mad.  .  .  .  Her 
mother  went  mad,  too.  She  died  mad.  I  know  that'  In  The 
Wild  Duck  nearly  everyone  has  a  hereditary  mark.  Gregers 
Werle,  the  malignant  imbecile,  who  holds  and  proclaims  his 
passion  for  gossip  as  an  ardent  desire  for  truth,  inherits  this 
craze  from  his  mother.f  Little  Hedwig  becomes  blind,  like  her 
father,  old  Werle.| 

*  Ghosts,  p,  170  :  Oswald.  At  last  he  said,  'You  have  been  worm-eaten 
from  your  birth.'  ...  I  didn't  understand  either,  and  beg^'ed  of  him  to  give 
me  a  clearer  explanation.  And  then  the  old  cynic  said,  'The  father's  sins 
are  visited  upon  the  children.'  And  p.  194  :  Oswald.  The  disease  I  have  as 
my  birthright  {he  points  to  his  forehead,  and  adds  very  softly)  is  seated  here 

t   The  Wild  Duck,  Act  III.  : 

Gregers,  Besides,  if  I'm  to  go  on  living,  I  must  try  and  find  some  cure 
for  my  sick  conscience. 

Werle.  It  will  never  be  well.  Your  conscience  has  been  sickly  from 
childhood.  That's  an  inheritance  from  your  mother,  Gregers — it  is  the  only 
inheritance  she  left  you.  .  .  . 

Reeling.  But,  deuce  take  it,  don't  you  see  the  fellow's  mad,  cracked, 
demented  ! 

GiNA.  There,  you  hear !  His  mother  before  him  had  mad  fits  like  that 
sometimes. 

X  The  Wild  Duck,  Act  II.  : 

HjALMAR.  She  is  in  danger  of  losing  her  eyesight. 

Gregers.  Becoming  blind  ? 


352  DEGENERATION 

In  the  earlier  philosophical  dramas  the  same  idea  is  constantly 
repeated.  Brand  gets  his  obstinacy,  and  Peer,  Gynt  his  lively, 
extravagant  imagination,  from  the  mother.  Ibsen  has  evidently 
read  Lucas's  book  on  the  first  principles  of  heredity,  and  has 
borrowed  from  it  uncritically.  It  is  true  that  Lucas  believes  in 
the  inheritance  even  of  notions  and  feelings  as  complex  and  as 
nearly  related  to  specific  facts  as,  e.g.,  the  horror  of  doctors,*  and 
that  he  does  not  doubt  the  transmission  of  diseased  deviations 
from  the  norm,  e.g.,  the  appearance  of  blindness  at  a  definite 
age.*f*  Lucas,  however,  whose  merits  are  not  to  be  denied,  did 
not  sufficiently  distinguish  between  that  which  the  individual 
receives  in  its  material  genesis  from  its  parents,  and  that  which 
is  subsequently  suggested  by  family  life  and  example,  by  con- 
tinuous existence  in  the  same  conditions  as  its  parents,  etc. 
Ibsen  is  the  true  '  man  of  one  book.'  He  abides  by  his  Lucas. 
If  he  had  read  Weismann,J  and,  above  all,  Galton,§  he  would 
have  known  that  nothing  is  more  obscure  and  apparently 
more  capricious,  than  the  course  of  heredity.  For  the  individual 
is,  says  Galton,  the  result — the  arithmetic  mean — of  three  dif- 
ferent quantities  :  its  father,  its  mother  and  the  whole  species, 
represented  by  the  double  series,  going  back  to  the  beginnings 
of  all  terrestrial  life,  of  its  paternal  and  maternal  progenitors. 
This  third  datum  is  the  unknown  quantity — the  x — in  the  pro- 
blem. Reversions  to  distant  ancestors  may  make  the  individual 
wholly  unlike  its  parents,  and  the  influence  of  the  species  so  far 
exceed,  as  a  general  rule,  those  of  the  immediate  progenitors, 
that  children  who  are  the  exact  cast  of  their  father  or  mother, 
especially  with  respect  to  the  most  complex  manifestations  of 
personality,  of  character,  capacities  and  inclinations,  are  the 
greatest  rarities.  But  Ibsen  is  not  at  all  concerned  about 
seriously  justifying  his  ideas  on  heredity  in  a  scientific  manner. 
As  we  shall  see  later  on,  these  ideas  have  their  root  in  his 
mysticism  ;  Lucas's  work  was  for  him  only  a  lucky  treasure-trove, 

HjALMAR.     .  .  .  But  the  doctor  has  warned  us.     It's  coming,  inexorably. 

Gregers.  What  an  awful  misfortune  !     How  do  you  account  for  it? 

HjALMAR  {sighs).  Hereditary,  no  doubt. 

Again,  Act  IV. : 

Mrs.  Sorby.     ...  He  (Werle)  is  going  blind. 

HjALMAR  {with  a  start).  Going  blind  1  That's  strange — Werle,  too,  be- 
coming blind  ! 

*  Dr  Prosper  Lucas,  Traiti  ■philosophique  et  j>hysiologique  de  PHSredit^ 
natu7'elle  datis  les  Etats  de  Sante  et  de  Maladie  die  Sysihne  nerveux,  etc.  (The 
title  occupies  seven  lines  more  !)  Paris,  1847,  2  volumes,  t.  i.,  p.  250.  (It 
appears  that  Montaigne  had  this  inherited  horror  of  doctors.) 

f  Lucas,  op.  cit.,  t.  i.,  pp.  391-420  :  De  Phereditd des  ifiodes  sensitifs  de  la  vue. 
On  page  400  he  tells  of  a  family  in  which  the  mother  became  blind  at  the  age 
of  twenty-one  years,  and  the  children  at  sixteen  and  seventeen  respectively,  etc. 

X  August  Weismann,  Ueber  die  Vererbung.     Jena,  1883. 

§  F.  Galton,  Natural  bilieritance.     London,  1888. 


EGO-MANIA  353 

which  he  seized  on  with  joy,  because  it  offered  him  the  possi- 
bility of  scientifically  cloaking  his  mystic  obsession. 

Ibsen's  excursions  in  the  domain  of  medical  science,  which  he 
hardly  ever  denies  himself,  are  most  delightful.  In  The  Pillars 
of  Society  Rector  Rorlund  glorifies  the  women  of  his  coterie  as  a 
kind  of  'sisters  of  mercy  who  pick  lint.'  Pick  lint !  In  an  age 
of  antiseptics  and  aseptics !  Let  Ibsen  only  take  into  his  head 
to  enter  any  surgical  ward  with  his  '  picked  lint '!  He  would  be 
astonished  at  the  reception  given  to  him  and  his  lint.  In  An 
Enemy  of  Society  Dr.  Stockmann  declares  that  the  water  of  the 
baths  with  its  '  millions  of  bacilli  is  absolutely  injurious  to  health, 
whether  used  internally  or  externally.'  The  only  bacilli  which 
can  be  referred  to  in  this  scene,  as  throughout  the  whole  piece, 
are  the  typhoid  bacilli  of  Eberth.  Now,  it  may  be  true  that 
bathing  in  contaminated  water  may  produce  Biskra  boils,  and 
perhaps  beri-beri ;  but  it  would  be  difficult  for  Dr.  Stockmann 
and  Ibsen  to  instance  a  single  case  of  typhoid  fever  contracted 
through  bathing  in  water  containing  bacilli.  In  A  Doll's  House 
Helmer's  life  'depended  on  a  journey  abroad.'  That  might  be 
true  for  a  European  in  the  tropics,  or  for  anyone  living  in  a 
fever-district.  But  in  Norway  there  is  no  such  thing  as  an 
acute  illness  in  which  the  life  of  the  invalid  depends  on  '  a 
journey  abroad.'  Further  on  Dr.  Rank  says  (p,  60)  :  *  In  the 
last  few  days  I  have  had  a  general  stock-taking  of  my  inner 
man.  Bankruptcy !  Before  a  month  is  over  I  shall  be  food 
for  worms  in  the  churchyard.  .  .  .  There  is  only  one  more  in- 
vestigation to  be  made,  and  when  I  have  made  it  I  shall  know 
exactly  at  what  time  dissolution  will  take  place.'  According 
to  his  own  declaration.  Dr.  Rank  suffers  from  disease  of  the 
dorsal  marrow  (it  is  true  that  he  speaks  of  the  dorsal  column,  but 
the  mistaken  expression  need  not  be  taken  too  rigidly),  Ibsen 
is  evidently  thinking  of  consumption  of  the  spinal  marrow. 
Now,  there  is  in  this  disease  absolutely  no  symptom  which  could 
with  certainty  authorize  the  prediction  of  death  three  weeks 
beforehand  ;  there  is  no  '  general  stock-taking  of  the  inner 
man'  which  the  invalid,  if  he  were  a  doctor,  could  carry  out  on 
himself  to  gain  a  clear  knowledge  of  'when  the  dissolution  '  was 
to  take  place  ;  and  there  is  no  form  of  consumption  of  the  spinal 
marrow  which  would  allow  the  invalid  four  weeks  before  his 
death  (not  an  accidental  death,  but  one  necessitated  by  his 
disease)  to  go  to  a  ball,  drink  immoderately  of  champagne,  and 
afterwards  to  take  an  affecting  leave  of  his  friends.  Oswald 
Alving's  illness  in  Ghosts  is,  from  a  clinical  standpoint,  quite  as 
childishly  depicted  as  that  of  Rank.  From  all  that  is  said  in  the 
piece  the  disease  inherited  by  Oswald  from  his  father  can  only 
be  diagnosed  either  as  syphilis  hereditaria  tarda,  or  dementia 
paralytica.  The  first  of  these  diseases  is  out  of  the  question, 
23 


354  DEGENERATION 

for  Oswald  is  depicted  as  a  model  of  manly  strength  and  health.* 
And  even  if,  in  exceptional  and  extremely  rare  cases,  the 
malady  does  not  show  itself  till  after  the  victim  is  well  on  in 
his  twenties,  it  yet  betrays  itself  from  the  earliest  childhood  by 
certain  phenomena  of  degeneracy  which  would  prevent  even  a 
mother,  blinded  by  love  and  pride,  from  glorifying  her  son's 
'outer  self  in  the  style  of  Mrs.  Alving.  Certain  minor  features 
might  perhaps  indicate  dementia  paralytica,  as,  for  example, 
Oswald's  sensual  excitability,  the  artless  freedom  with  which 
he  speaks  before  his  mother  of  the  amours  of  his  friends  in 
Paris,  or  gives  expression  to  his  pleasure  at  the  sight  of  the 
'  glorious '  Regina,  the  levity  with  which,  at  the  first  sight  of 
this  girl,  he  makes  plans  for  his  marriage,  etc.-f-  But  together 
with  these  exact,  though  subordinate,  features  there  appear 
others  infinitely  more  important,  which  wholly  preclude  the 
diagnosis  of  dementia  paralytica.  There  is  in  Oswald  no  trace 
of  the  megalomania  which  is  never  absent  in  the  first  stage  of 
this  malady  ;  he  is  anxious  and  depressed,  while  the  sufferer 
from  general  paralysis  feels  extremely  happy,  and  sees  life 
through  rose-coloured  spectacles.  Oswald  forebodes  and  dreads 
an  outburst  of  madness — a  fact  which  I,  for  my  part,  have  never 
observed  in  a  paralytic,  nor  found  indicated  by  any  clinicist  what- 
ever. Finally,  Oswald's  dementia  declares  itself  with  a  sudden- 
ness and  completeness  found  in  acute  mania  only  ;  but  the  de- 
scription given  of  Oswald  in  the  last  scene — his  immobility,  his 
*  dull  and  toneless  '  voice,  and  his  idiotic  murmuring  of  the 
words  'the  sun,  the  sun,'  repeated  half  a  dozen  times — does  not 
in  the  remotest  degree  correspond  with  the  picture  of  acute 
mania. 

The  poet  has  naturally  no  need  to  understand  anything  of 
pathology.  But  when  he  pretends  to  describe  real  life,  he 
ought  to  be  honest.  He  should  not  get  out  of  his  depth  in 
scientific  observation  and  precision  simply  because  these  are 
demanded  or  preferred  by  the  age.  The  more  ignorant  the 
poet  is  in  pathology,  the  greater  is  the  test  of  his  veracity  given 
by  his  clinical  pictures.  As  he  cannot,  in  his  lay  capacity,  draw 
on  his  imagination  for  them  by  combining  clinical  experiences 
and  reminiscences  of  books,  it  is  necessary  that  he  shall  have  seen 
with  his  own  eyes  each  case  represented  to  depict  it  accurately. 
Shakespeare  was  likewise  no  physician  ;  and,  besides,  what  did 
the  physicians  of  his  time  know  .-*     Yet  we  can  to  this  day  still 

*  Page  136  : 

Mrs.  Alving.  I  know  one  who  has  kept  both  his  inner  and  his  outer 
self  unharmed.     Only  look  at  him,  Mr.  Manders. 

f  Krafft-Ebing,  Psychopatliia  sexualis,  p.  139.  The  author  here  cites  all 
the  features  in  question  as  characteristic  of  the  hrst  stage  of  general  paralysis  : 
'Libidinous  talk,  unconstraint  in  intercourse  with  the  oppoc)iie  sex,  plans  of 
marriage.' 


EGO-MANIA  355 

diagnose  without  hesitation  the  dementia  senilis  of  Lear, 
Hamlet's  weakness  of  will  through  nervous  exhaustion  {neuras- 
thenic '  aboalie '),  the  melancholia,  accompanied  with  optical 
hallucination,  of  Lady  Macbeth.  Why  ?  Because  Shakespeare 
introduced  into  his  creations  things  really  seen.  Ibsen,  on 
the  contrary,  has~  freely  invented  his  invalids,  and  that  this 
method  could,  in  the  hands  of  a  layman,  only  lead  to  laughable 
results,  needs  no  proof.  A  moving  or  affecting  situation  offers 
itself  to  his  imagination — that  of  a  man  who  clearly  foresees 
his  near  and  inevitable  death,  and  with  violent  self-conquest 
lifts  himself  to  the  stoic  philosophy  of  renunciation  ;  or  that  of 
a  young  man  who  adjures  his  mother  to  kill  him  when  the 
madness  he  awaits  with  horror  shall  break  out.  The  situation 
is  very  improbable.  Perhaps  it  has  never  occurred.  In  any 
event,  Ibsen  has  never  witnessed  it.  But  if  it  occurred  it 
would  possess  great  poetic  beauty,  and  produce  a  great  effect 
on  the  stage.  Consequently  Ibsen  calmly  turns  out  the 
novel  and  unknown  maladies  of  a  Dr.  Rank  or  an  Oswald 
Alving,  the  progress  of  which  might  make  these  situations 
possible.  Such  is  the  procedure  of  the  poet  whose  realism 
and  accurate  observation  are  so  much  vaunted  by  his  ad- 
mirers. 

His  clearness  of  mind,  his  love  of  liberty,  his  modernity  ! 
Careful  readers  of  Ibsen's  works  will  not  trust  their  eyes 
when  they  see  these  words  applied  to  him.  We  will  at  once 
put  immediate  and  exhaustive  tests  to  the  clearness  of  his 
thought.  His  love  of  liberty  will  be  revealed  by  analysis  as 
anarchism  ;  and  his  modernity  amounts  essentially  to  this, 
that  in  his  pieces  railways  are  constructed  {The  Pillars  of 
Society),  that  there  is  a  cackle  about  bacilli  {An  Enemy  of 
the  People),  that  the  struggles  of  political  parties  play  a 
part  in  them  [The  League  of  the  Young,  Rosmersholm) — all  put 
on  superficially  with  a  brush,  without  inner  dependence  upon 
the  true  active  forces  in  the  poem.  This  *  modern,'  this  '  apostle 
of  liberty,'  has  an  idea  of  the  press  and  its  functions  fit  for  a 
clerk  in  a  police-station,  and  he  pursues  journalists  with  the 
hatred,  droll  in  these  days,  of  a  tracker  of  demagogues  in  the 
third  decade  of  this  century.  All  the  journalists  whom  he  sets 
before  us — and  they  are  numerous  in  his  pieces,  Peter  Mortens- 
gaard  in  Rosmersholm,  Haustad  and  Billing  in  An  Enemy  of 
the  People,  Bahlmann  in  The  League  of  the  Young — are  either 
drunken  ragamuffins  or  poor  knock-kneed  starvelings,  con- 
stantly trembling  at  the  prospect  of  being  thrashed  or  kicked 
out,  or  unprincipled  rascals  who  write  for  anyone  who  pays. 
He  has  so  clear  a  grasp  of  the  social  question  that  he  makes 
a  foreman  mix  with  the  workmen  and  threaten  a  strike  because 
machines  are  about  to  be  used  on  the  wharves  {The  Pillars  of 


356  DEGENERATION 

Society) !  He  looks  upon  the  masses  with  the  fine  contempt  of 
the  great  feudal  landlords.  When  he  mentions  them  it  is 
either  with  biting  derision  or  a  most  aristocratic  and  arrogant 
disdain.* 

The  greater  part  of  his  notions,  moreover,  belong  to  no  time, 
but  are  emanations  from  his  personal  perversity,  and  can,  there- 
fore, be  neither  modern  or  not  modern  ;  the  least  uncouth  of 
them,  however,  having  their  root  in  a  definite  period,  spring 
from  the  circle  of  ideas  of  a  Gothamist  of  the  first  third  of  the 
present  century.  The  label  '  modern  '  was  arbitrarily  attached 
to  Ibsen  by  George  Brandes  {Moderne  Geister,  Frankfurt,  1886), 
one  of  the  most  repulsive  literary  phenomena  of  the  century. 
George  Brandes,  a  sponger  on  the  fame  or  name  of  others,  has 
throughout  his  life  followed  the  calling  of  a  'human  orchestra,' 
who  with  head,  mouth,  hands,  elbows,  knees,  and  feet,  plays 
ten  noisy  instruments  at  once,  dancing  before  poets  and  authors, 
and,  after  the  hubbub,  passes  his  hat  round  among  the  deafened 
public.  For  a  quarter  of  a  century  he  has  assiduously  courted 
the  favour  of  all  who  for  any  reason  had  a  following,  and 
written  rhetorical  and  sophistical  phrases  about  them,  as  long 
as  he  could  find  a  market.  Adorned  with  a  few  feathers 
plucked  from  the  stately  pinions  of  Taine's  genius,  and  prating 
of  John  Stuart  Mill,  whose  treatise  On  Liberty  he  has  glanced 
at,  but  hardly  read,  and  certainly  not  understood,  he  intro- 
duced himself  among  the  youth  of  Scandinavia,  and,  abusing 
their  confidence,  obtained  by  this  means,  has  made  their  syste- 
matic moral  poisoning  the  task  of  his  life.  He  preached 
to  them  the  gospel  of  passion,  and,  with  truly  diabolical  zeal 
and  obstinacy,  confused  all  their  notions,  giving  to  whatever 
he  extolled  that  was  mean  and  reprehensible  the  most  attractive 
and  honourable  names.  It  has  always  been  thought  weak  and 
cowardly  to  yield  to  base  impulses  condemned  by  judgment, 
instead  of  combating  and  stifling  them.  If  Brandes  had  said 
to  the  young,  '  Renounce  your  judgment !  Sacrifice  duty  to 
your  passions !  Be  ruled  by  your  senses !  Let  your  will 
and  consciousness  be  as  feathers  before  the  storm  of  your 
appetites !' — the  better  among  his  hearers  would  have  spit  at 
him.  But  he  said  to  them  :  '  To  obey  one's  senses  is  to  have 
character.  He  who  allows  himself  to  be  guided  by  his  passions 
has  individuality.  The  man  of  strong  will  despises  discipline 
and  duty,  and  follows  every  caprice,  every  temptation,  every 
movement   of  his  stomach  or   his    other  organs '  ;   and  these 

*  Rosmershohn,  p.  23  : 

Rebecca  {to  Brendel).  You  should  apply  to  Peter  Morten sgaard. 

Brendel.  PardoJt,  Mada7ne — what  sort  of  an  idiot  is  he  ? 

See  the  flat  travesty  in  An  Enemy  of  the  People  (Act  IV.)  of  the  forum 
scene  in  Shakespeare's  Julius  Ccesar,  and  the  characterization  of  the  '  crowd,' 
in  Brand  (Act  V.). 


EGO-MANIA  357 

vulgarities,  thus  presented,  no  longer  had  the  repulsive  character 
which  awakens  distrust  and  serves  as  a  warning.  Proclaimed 
under  the  names  of  *  liberty  '  and  '  moral  autonomy/  debauchery 
and  dissoluteness  gain  easy  admission  into  the  best  circles,  and 
depravity,  from  which  all  would  turn  if  it  appeared  as  such, 
seems  to  insufficiently  informed  minds  attractive  and  desirable 
when  disguised  as  '  modernity.'  It  is  comprehensible  that  an 
educator  who  turns  the  schoolroom  into  a  tavern  and  a  brothel 
should  have  success  and  a  crowd  of  followers.  He  certainly 
runs  the  risk  of  being  slain  by  the  parents,  if  they  come  to 
know  what  he  is  teaching  their  children ;  but  the  pupils  will 
hardly  complain,  and  will  be  eager  to  attend  the  lessons  of  so 
agreeable  a  teacher.  By  a  similar  method  Brandes  acquitted 
himself  of  his  educational  functions.  This  is  the  explanation  of 
the  influence  he  gained  over  the  youth  of  his  country,  such  as  his 
writings,  with  their  emptiness  of  thought  and  unending  tattle, 
would  certainly  never  have  procured  for  him. 

Brandes  discovered  in  Ibsen  a  revolt  against  the  prevailing 
moral  law,  together  with  a  glorification  of  bestial  instincts,  and 
accordingly  trumpeted  his  praises  in  spite  of  his  astounding 
reactionary  views,  as  a  '  modern  spirit,'  recommending  Ibsen's 
works,  with  a  wink  of  the  eye,  to  the  knowledge  -  craving 
youth,  whom  he  served  as  maitre  de  plaisir.  But  this 
'modern,'  this  '  realist,' with  his  exact  'scientific' observation, 
is  in  reality  a  mystic  and  an  egomaniacal  anarchist.  An 
analysis  of  his  intellectual  peculiarities  will  enable  us  to  discern 
a  resemblance  to  those  of  Richard  Wagner,  which  is  not 
surprising,  since  a  similarity  in  features  is  precisely  a  stigma  of 
degeneracy,  and  for  this  reason  is  common  to  many,  or  to  all, 
higher  degenerates. 

Ibsen  is  the  child  of  a  rigorously  religious  race,  and  grew  up 
in  a  family  of  believers.  The  impressions  of  childhood  have  de- 
termined the  course  of  his  life.  His  mind  has  never  been  able 
to  iron  out  the  theological  crease  it  got  .iirough  nurture.  The 
Bible  and  Catechism  became  for  him  the  bounds  beyond  which 
he  has  never  passed.  His  free-thinking  diatribes  against  estab- 
lished Christianity  {Bvand,  Rosmersholm,  etc.),  his  derision  of 
the  shackled  pietism  of  divines  (Manders  in  Ghosts,  Rorlund  in 
The  Pillars  of  Society,  the  dean  in  Brand),  are  an  echo  of  his 
teacher,  the  theosophist,  Sceren  Kierkegaard  (1815-55),  ^  zealot 
certainly  for  quite  another  Christianity  than  that  ordained  by 
the  state,  and  provided  with  powers  of  nomination  and  fixed 
salaries,  but  nevertheless  an  austere  and  exclusive  Christianity, 
demanding  the  whole  being  of  man.  Perhaps  even  Ibsen  looks 
upon  himself  as  a  freethinker.  Wagner  did  the  same.  But 
what  does  that  prove  .-*  He  is  not  clear  with  regard  to  his  own 
thought. 


358  DEGENERATION 

'  It  is  curious,'  writes  Herbert  Spencer,*  '  how  commonly  men 
continue  to  hold,  in  fact,  doctrines  which  they  have  rejected  in 
name,  retaining  the  substance  after  they  have  abandoned  the 
form.  In  theology  an  illustration  is  supplied  by  Carlyle,  who, 
in  his  student  days,  giving  up,  as  he  thought,  the  creed  of  his 
fathers,  rejected  its  shell  only,  keeping  the  contents,  and  was 
proved  by  his  conceptions  of  the  world,  and  man  and  conduct, 
to  be  still  among  the  sternest  of  Scotch  Calvinists.'  If  Spencer, 
when  he  wrote  this,  had  known  Ibsen,  he  would  perhaps  have  cited 
him  as  a  second  example.  As  Carlyle  was  always  a  Scotch 
Calvinist,  so  Ibsen  has  always  remained  a  Norwegian  Pro- 
testant of  the  school  of  Kierkegaard — that  is  to  say,  a  Protestant 
with  the  earnest  mysticism  of  a  Jacob  Boehme,  a  Swedenborg, 
or  a  Pusey,  which  easily  passes  over  into  the  Catholicism  of  a 
St.  Theresa  or  a  Ruysbroek. 

Three  fundamental  ideas  of  Christianity  are  ever  present  in 
his  mind,  and  about  these  as  round  so  many  axes  revolves  the 
entire  activity  of  his  poetical  imagination.  These  three  un- 
alterable central  ideas,  constituting  genuine  obsessions,  reaching 
up  from  the  unconscious  into  his  intellectual  life,  are  original 
sin,  confession  and  self-sacrifice  or  redemption. 

Esthetic  chatterers  have  spoken  of  the  idea  of  heredity  in- 
fluencing all  Ibsen's  works,  an  idea  which  cannot  escape  even 
the  feeblest  attention,  as  something  appertaining  to  modern 
science  and  Darwinism.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  it  is  the  ever- 
recurring  original  sin  of  St.  Augustine,  and  it  betrays  its 
theological  nature,  firstly  by  the  circumstance  that  it  makes  its 
appearance  in  conjunction  with  the  two  other  theological  ideas 
of  confession  and  redemption,  and  secondly,  by  the  distinguish- 
ing characteristic  of  hereditary  transmission.  As  we  have  above 
seen,  Ibsen's  personages  always  inherit  a  disease  (blindness, 
consumption  of  the  spinal  marrow,  madness),  a  vice  (menda- 
ciousness,  levity,  lewdness,  obduracy),  or  some  defect  (incapacity 
for  enjoyment),  but  never  an  agreeable  or  useful  quality.  Now 
what  is  good  and  wholesome  is  just  as  frequently  inherited  as 
what  is  evil  and  diseased — even  more  frequently,  according  to 
many  investigators.  Hence  if  Ibsen  had  really  wished  to 
exhibit  the  operation  of  the  law  of  heredity  as  understood  by 
Darwin,  he  would  have  offered  us  at  least  one  example,  if  only 
one,  of  the  inheritance  of  good  qualities.  But  not  a  single 
instance  is  to  be  met  with  in  all  his  dramas.  What  his  beings 
possess  of  good,  comes  one  knows  not  whence.  They  have 
always  inherited  nothing  but  evil.  The  gentle  Hedvig  in  The 
Wild  Duck  becomes  blind  like  her  father,  Werle.  But  from 
whom  does  she  get  her  dreamy  wealth  of  imagination,  her 
devoted  loving  heart }     Her  father  is  a  cold  egoist,  and  her 

*  Herbert  Spencer,  The  Man  versus  the  State,  1S84,  p.  78. 


EGO-MANIA  359 

mother  a  clever,  practical,  prosaic  housewife.  Thus  she  can 
never  have  inherited  her  fine  qualities  from  either  of  her  parents. 
From  them  she  receives  only  her  eye-disease.  With  Ibsen 
heredity  is  only  a  visitation,  a  punishment  for  the  sins  of  the 
fathers  ;  science  knows  of  no  such  exclusive  heredity  ;  theology 
alone  knows  it,  and  it  is  simply  original  sin, 

Ibsen's  second  theological  motif  is  confession  ;  in  nearly  all 
his  pieces  such  is  the  goal  to  which  all  the  action  tends  ;  not, 
perchance,  forced  by  circumstances  upon  a  dissimulating 
offender,  not  the  inevitable  revelation  of  a  hidden  misdeed,  but 
the  voluntary  outpouring  of  a  pent-up  soul,  the  voluptuous,  self- 
tormenting  disclosure  of  an  ugly  inner  wound,  the  remorseful 
'  My  guilt,  my  deepest  guilt !'  of  the  sinner  breaking  down 
under  the  weight  of  his  burdened  conscience,  humbling  himself 
to  an  avowal  that  he  may  find  inward  peace  ;  in  short,  genuine 
confession  as  required  by  the  Church.  In  A  DoWs  House, 
Helmer  informs  his  wife  (p.  44) :  '  Many  a  man  can  lift  himself 
up  again  morally  if  he  openly  recognises  his  offence  and  under- 
goes its  punishment.  .  .  .  Only  just  think  how  a  man  so  con- 
scious of  guilt  as  that  must  go  about  everywhere  lying,  and  a 
hypocrite,  and  an  actor ;  how  he  must  wear  a  mask  towards  his 
neighbour,  and  even  his  wife  and  children.'  For  him  not  the 
guilt,  but  the  dissimulation,  is  the  great  evil,  and  its  true 
expiation  consists  in  'public  avowaP — i.e.,  in  confession.  In 
the  same  piece  Mrs.  Linden,  without  any  external  necessity, 
and  simply  in  obedience  to  an  inner  impulse,  makes  the  follow- 
ing confession  (p,  %']') :  *  I,  too,  have  suffered  shipwreck.  ...  I 
had  no  choice  at  the  time ' ;  while  later  on  she  develops  the 
theory  of  confession  once  more  (p.  90) :  '  Helmer  must  know 
everything  ;  between  those  two  there  must  be  the  completest 
possible  understanding,  and  that  can  never  come  to  pass  while 
all  these  excuses  and  concealments  are  going  on.' 

In  The  Pillars  of  Society  Miss  Hessel  exacts  a  confession 
in  these  terms  (p.  70)  : 

Here  you  are,  the  first  man  in  the  town,  living  in  wealth  and  pride,  in 
power  and  honour — you  who  have  set  the  brand  of  crime  upon  an  innocent 
man. 

Bernick.  Do  you  think  I  do  not  feel  deeply  how  I  have  wronged  him: 
Do  you  think  I  am  not  prepared  to  make  atonement  ? 

LoNA.  How  ?     By  speakmg  out  ? 

Bernick.  Can  you  ask  such  a  thing? 

LONA.  What  else  can  atone  for  such  a  wrong  ? 

And  Johan  also  says  (p.  75)  : 

In  two  months  I  shall  be  back  again, 
Bernick.  And  then  you  will  tell  all  ? 
JOHAN.  Then  the  guilty  one  must  take  the  guilt  upon  himself. 

Bernick  actually  makes  the  confession  demanded  of  him 
from  pure  contrition,  for  at  the  time  he  makes  it  all  proofs 


36o  DEGENERATION 

of  his  crime  are  destroyed,  and  he  has  nothing  more  to  fear 
from  other  persons.  His  confession  is  couched  in  most  edifying 
terms  (p.  io8)  : 

I  must  begin  by  rejecting  the  panegyric  with  which  you  .  .  .  have  over- 
whelmed me.  I  do  not  deserve  it  ;  for  until  to-day  I  have  not  been  dis- 
interested in  my  dealings  ...  I  have  no  right  to  this  homage  ;  for  .  .  . 
my  intention  was  to  retain  the  whole  myself.  .  .  .  My  fellow-citizens  must 
know  me  to  the  core  .  .  .  that  from  this  evening  we  begin  a  new  time. 
The  old,  with  its  tinsel,  its  hypocrisy,  its  hoUowness,  its  lying  propriety,  and 
its  pitiful  cowardice,  shall  lie  behind  us  like  a  museum  open  for  instruction. 
.  .  .  My  fellow-citizens,  I  will  come  out  of  the  lie  ;  it  had  almost  poisoned 
every  fibre  of  my  being.  You  shall  know  all.  Fifteen  years  ago  /  was  the 
guilty  one,  etc. 

In  RosmersJiohn  there  is  hardly  any  other  subject  treated  of 
than  the  confession  of  all  before  all.  In  the  very  first  visit  of 
KroU  (p.  15)  Rebecca  urges  Rosmer  to  confess  : 

Rebecca  (cojnes  up  close  to  Rosmer,  and  says  rapidly  and  in  a  low  voicCy 
so  that  the  Rector  does  not  hear  her).  Do  it  now  ! 
Rosmer  {also  in  a  low  voice).  Not  this  evening. 
Rebecca  {as  before).  Yes,  this  very  evening. 

As  he  does  not  at  once  obey  she  will  speak  for  him  (p.  19) : 

Rebecca.  You  must  let  me  tell  you  frankly. 
Rosmer  {quickly').  No,  no  ;  be  quiet.     Not  just  now  ! 

Rosmer  soon  does  it  himself  (p.  28) : 

Kroll.  We  two  are  in  practical  agreement — at  any  rate,  on  the  great 
essential  questions. 

Rosmer  {in  a  low  voice).  No  ;  not  now. 

Kroll  {tries  to  jump  up).  What  is  this? 

Rosmer  {holding  hir?i).  No  ;  you  must  sit  still.     I  entreat  you,  Kroll. 

Kroll.  What  can  this  mean?     I  don't  understand  you.     Speak  plainly. 

Rosmer.  A  new  summer  has  blossomed  in  my  soul.  I  see  with  eyes 
grown  young  again  ;  and  so  now  I  stand 

Kroll.  Where  ?  where,  Rosmer  ? 

Rosmer.  Where  your  children  stand. 

Kroll.  You  ?  you  ?     Impossible  !     Where  do  you  say  you  stand? 

Rosmer.  On  the  same  side  as  Laurits  and  Hilda. 

Kroll  {bows  his  head).  An  apostate  !  Johannes  Rosmer  an  apostate  1 
...     Is  this  becoming  language  for  a  priest? 

Rosmer.   I  am  no  longer  a  priest. 

Kroll.  Well,  but — the  faith  of  your  childhood ? 

Rosmer.  Is  mine  no  longer.  ...  I  have  given  it  up.  I  had  to  give  it  up. 
.  .  .  Peace,  and  joy,  and  mutual  forbearance  must  once  more  enter  our 
souls.  That  is  why  I  am  stepping  forward  and  openly  avowing  myself  for 
what  I  am.  .   .  . 

Rebecca.  There  now  ;  he's  on  his  way  to  his  great  sacrifice. 

(We  may  here  note  the  purely  theological  designation  given 
to  Rosmer's  act.) 

Rosmer.  I  feel  so  relieved  now  it  is  over.  You  see,  I  am  quite  calm 
Rebecca.  .  .  . 


EGOMANIA  361 

Like  Rosmer,  Rebecca  also  confesses  to  Rector  Kroll 
(p.  86)  : 

Rebecca.  Yes,  Herr  Rector,  Rosmer  and  I — we  say  ^/lou  to  each  other. 
The  relation  between  us  has  led  to  that.  .  .  .  Come,  let  us  sit  down,  dear 
— all  three  of  us — and  then  I  will  tell  the  whole  story. 

Rosmer  {sea(s  himself  mechanically).  What  has  come  over  you,  Rebecca? 
This  unnatural  calmness — what  is  it? 

Rebecca.  I  have  only  to  tell  you  something.  .  .  .  Now  it  must  out.  It 
was  not  you,  Rosmer.  You  are  innocent  ;  it  was  /  who  lured  Beata  out 
into  the  paths  of  delusion  .  .  .  that  led  to  the  mill-race.  Now  you  know 
it,  both  of  you.  .  .  . 

Rosmer  {after  a  pause).  Have  you  confessed  all  now,  Rebecca  ? 

No,  not  yet  all.  But  she  hastens  to  complete  to  Rosmer 
the  confession  begun  to  Kroll  (p.  98)  : 

Rosmer.  Have  you  more  confessions  to  make? 
Rebecca.  The  greatest  of  all  is  to  come. 
Rosmer.  The  greatest  ? 

Rebecca.  What  you  have  never  suspected.  What  gives  light  and  shade 
to  all  the  rest,  etc. 

In  The  Lady  from  the  Sea,  Ellida  (p.  19)  confesses  to  Arnholm 
the  story  of  her  insensate  betrothal  with  the  foreign  sailor. 
Arnholm  so  little  comprehends  the  need  of  this  confession, 
made  without  rhyme  or  reason,  that  he  asks  with  astonishment : 
*  What  is  your  object,  then,  in  telling  me  that  you  were  bound  ?' 
'  Because  I  must  have  someone  in  whom  to  confide,'  is  Ellida's 
sole — and,  moreover,  sufficient — answer. 

In  Hedda  Gabler  the  inevitable  confessions  take  place  before 
the  commencement  of  the  piece.  '  Yes,  Hedda,'  Lovborg  says 
(p.  123).  'And  when  I  used  to  confess  to  you!  Told  you 
about  myself — things  that  nobody  else  knew  in  those  days. 
Sat  there  and  admitted  that  I  had  been  out  on  the  loose  for 
whole  days  and  nights.  .  .  .  Ah,  Hedda,  what  power  was  it 
in  you  that  forced  me  to  acknowledge  things  like  that  ?  .  .  . 
Had  not  you  an  idea  that  you  could  wash  me  clean  if  only 
I  came  to  you  in  confession  T  He  confesses  in  order  to  receive 
absolution. 

In  The  Wild  Duck  confession  is  equally  prominent,  but  it 
is  deliciously  ridiculed.  The  scene  in  which  Gina  confesses 
to  her  husband  her  early  liaison  with  Werle  is  one  of  the  most 
exquisite  things  in  contemporary  drama  (Act  IV.). 

HjALMAR.  Is  it  true — can  it  be  true  that— that  there  was  an— an  under- 
standing between  you  and  Mr.  Werle,  while  you  were  in  service  there? 

Gina.  That's  not  true.  Not  at  that  time.  Mr.  Werle  did  come  after  me, 
I  own  it ;  and  his  wife  thought  there  was  something  in  it  ...  so  that  I  left 
her  service. 

Hjalmar.  But  afterwards,  then  ! 

Gina.  Well,  then  I  went  home.  And  mother— well,  she  wasn't  the  woman 
you  took  her  for,  Ekdal  ;  she  kept  on  worrying  and  worrying  at  me  about 
one  thing  and  another.     For  Mr.  Werle  was  a  widower  by  that  time. 

Hjalmar.  Well,  and  then  ? 


362  DEGENEiiATION 

GiNA.  I  suppose  you  must  know  it.  He  didn't  give  it  up  until  he'd  had 
his  way. 

HjALMAR  {striking  his  hands  together).  And  this  is  the  mother  of  my 
child  !     How  could  you  hide  this  from  me.-* 

GiNA.  It  was  wrong  of  me  ;  I  ought  certainly  to  have  told  you  long  ago. 

HjALMAR.  You  should  have  told  me  at  the  very  first  ;  then  I  should  have 
known  what  you  were. 

GiNA.  But  would  you  have  married  me  all  the  same  ? 

HjALMAR.  How  can  you  suppose  so  ? 

GiNA.  That's  just  why  I  didn't  dare  to  tell  you  anything  then.  I'd  come 
to  care  for  you  so  much,  you  know  ;  and  I  couldn't  go  and  make  myself 
utterly  miserable.  .  .  . 

HjALMAR.  Haven't  you  every  day,  every  hour,  repented  of  the  spider's 
web  of  deceit  you  had  spun  around  me?  Answer  me  that!  How  could 
you  help  writhing  with  penitence  and  remorse  ? 

GiNA.  My  dear  Ekdal,  I've  plenty  to  do  looking  after  the  house,  and  all 
the  daily  business 

Further  on  the  idea  of  self  -  deliverance  and  purification 
through  confession  is  pitilessly  travestied. 

Gregers.  Haven't  you  done  it  yet? 

HjALMAR  {aloud).  It  is  done. 

Gregers.  It  isf  .  .  .  After  so  great  a  crisis — a  crisis  that's  to  be  the 
starting-point  of  an  entirely  new  life — of  a  communion  founded  on  truth, 
and  free  from  falsehood  of  any  kind.  .  .  ,  Surely  you  feel  a  new  consecra- 
tion after  the  great  crisis. 

HjALMAR.  Yes,  of  course  I  do — that  is,  in  a  sort  of  way. 

Gregers.  For  I'm  sure  there's  nothing  in  the  world  to  compare  with  the 
joy  of  forgiving  one  who  has  erred,  and  raising  her  up  to  one's  self  in  love, 
etc. 

On  his  way  to  the  guillotine,  Avinain,  the  French  assassin, 
condensed  the  experience  of  his  life  in  the  pithy  saying, 
'  Never  confess.'  But  this  is  advice  which  only  those  of  strong 
will  and  healthy  minds  can  follow.  A  lively  idea  vehemently 
demands  to  be  transformed  into  movement.  The  movement 
exacting  the  least  effort  is  that  of  the  small  muscles  of  the 
larynx,  tongue,  and  lips,  i.e.,  the  organs  of  speech.  Anyone, 
therefore,  having  a  specially  lively  idea  experiences  a  strong 
desire  to  relax  those  cell-groups  of  his  brain  in  which  this  idea 
is  elaborated  by  allowing  the  transmission  of  their  stimulus  to 
the  organs  of  speech.  In  a  word,  he  desires  to  speak  out. 
And  if  h*^  is  weak,  if  the  inhibitive  power  of  the  will  is  not 
greater  than  the  motor  impulse  proceeding  from  the  ideational 
centre,  he  will  burst  out  into  speech,  be  the  consequences  what 
they  may.  That  this  psychological  law  has  always  been  known 
is  proved  by  all  literature,  from  the  fable  of  King  Midas  to 
Dostojewski's  Raskolnikow  ;  and  the  Catholic  Church  furnished 
one  more  proof  of  her  profound  knowledge  of  human  nature 
which  she  transformed  the  primitive  Christian  custom  of  con- 
fession before  the  assembled  congregation,  which  was  to  be  a 
self-humiliation  and  expiation,  into  auricular  confession,  which 
serves  the  purpose  of  a  safe  and  blissful  alleviation  and  relaxa- 


EGO-MANIA  363 

tion,  and  constitutes  for  ordinary  men  a  primary  psychic  need 
of  the  first  order.  It  was  this  sort  of  confession  which  Ibsen, 
probably  unconsciously,  had  in  view.  ('  Because  I  must  have 
someone  in  whom  I  can  confide,'  as  Ellida  says.)  Himself  a 
degenerate,  Ibsen  can  picture  to  himself  only  the  intellectual 
life  of  degenerates,  in  whom  the  mechanism  of  inhibition  is 
always  disordered,  and  who,  therefore,  cannot  escape  from  the 
impulse  to  confess,  when  anything  of  an  absorbing  or  exciting 
character  exists  in  their  consciousness. 

The  third  and  most  important  theological  obsession  of  Ibsen 
is  the  saving  act  of  Christ,  the  redemption  of  the  guilty  by  a 
voluntary  acceptance  of  their  guilt.  This  devolution  of  sin 
upon  a  lamb  of  sacrifice  occupies  the  same  position  in  Ibsen's 
drama  as  in  Richard  Wagner's.  The  motif  of  the  sacrificial 
lamb  and  of  redemption  is  constantly  present  in  his  mind, 
certainly  not  always  clear  and  comprehensible,  but,  conform- 
ably with  the  confusion  of  his  thought,  diversely  distorted, 
obscured,  and,  so  to  speak,  in  contrapuntal  inversion.  Now 
Ibsen's  personages  voluntarily  and  joyfully  bear  the  cross,  in 
keeping  with  the  Christ-idea  ;  now  it  is  put  upon  their  shoulders 
by  force  or  artifice,  which  is,  as  theologians  would  say,  a  diaboli- 
cal mockery  of  this  idea ;  now  the  sacrifice  for  another  is 
sincere,  now  mere  hypocrisy ;  the  effects  Ibsen  draws  from  the 
incessantly  recurring  motif  are,  agreeably  with  its  form,  now 
moral  and  affecting,  now  comically  base  and  repulsive. 

In  The  Pillars  of  Society  there  is  a  talk  of  some  *  scandal ' 
which  occurred  years  before  the  commencement  of  the  piece. 
The  husband  of  the  actress  Dorf,  on  returning  home  one 
evening,  found  her  with  a  stranger,  who,  on  his  entrance,  sprang 
out  of  the  window.  The  affair  caused  great  excitement  and 
indignation  in  the  Norwegian  Gotham.  Immediately  after- 
wards Johan  Tonnesen  fled  to  America.  Everyone  looked 
upon  him  as  the  '  culprit.'  In  reality,  however,  it  was  his 
brother-in-law,  Bernick.  Johan  had  voluntarily  incurred  the 
blame  of  Bernick's  fault.  On  his  return  from  America  the 
sinner  and  the  sacrificial  lamb  discuss  the  circumstance  (p.  45) : 

Bernick.  Johan,  now  we  are  alone,  you  must  give  me  leave  to  thank 
you. 

Johan.  Oh,  nonsense ! 

Bernick.  My  house  and  home,  my  domestic  happiness,  my  whole  position 
as  a  citizen  in  society — all  these  I  owe  to  you. 

Johan.  Well,  I  am  glad  of  it.  .  .  . 

Bernick.  Thanks,  thanks  all  the  same.  Not  one  in  ten  thousand  would 
have  done  what  you  then  did  for  me. 

Johan.  Oh,  nonsense  !  .  .  .     One  of  us  had  to  take  the  blame  upon  him, 

Bernick.   But  to  whom  did  it  lie  nearer  than  to  the  guilty  one  ? 

Johan.  Slop  !  Then  it  lay  nearer  to  the  innocent  one.  I  was  alone,  free, 
an  orphan.  .  .  .  You,  on  the  other  hand,  had  your  old  mother  in  life  ;  and, 
besides,  you  had  just  become  secretly  engaged  to  Betty,  and  she  was  very 
fond  of  you.     What  would  have  become  of  her  if  she  had  come  to  know ? 


364  DEGENERATION 

Bernick.  True,  true,  true  ;  but  .  .  .  but  yet,  that  you  should  turn  ap- 
pearances as^ainst  yourself,  and  go  away 

JOHAN.  Have  no  scruples,  my  dear  Karsten  .  .  .  you  had  to  be  saved, 
and  you  were  my  friend. 

Here  the  idea  of  the  sacrificial  lamb  is  normal  and  rational. 
But  it  is  soon  afterwards  introduced  into  the  same  piece  in  a 
distorted  shape.  Bernick  sends  the  rotten-keeled  Indian  Girl 
to  sea,  to  her  certain  destruction,  in  spite  of  his  foreman  Aune's 
opposition.  While,  however,  planning  this  wholesale  murder, 
he  also  schemes  for  laying  the  burden  of  his  crime  on  the 
innocent  Aune  (p.  65)  : 

Krap.     ,  .  .  There  is  rascality  at  work,  Consul. 

Bernick.  I  cannot  believe  it,  Krap.  I  cannot,  and  will  not  believe  such 
a  thing  of  Aune. 

Krap.  I  am  sorry  for  it,  but  it  is  the  plain  truth.  .  ,  .  All  bogus  !  The 
Indian  Girl  will  never  get  to  New  York.  .  .  . 

Bernick.  But  this  is  horrible  !     What  do  you  think  can  be  his  motive? 

Krap.  He  probably  wants  to  bring  the  machines  into  discredit.  .  .  . 

Bernick.  And  for  that  he  would  sacrifice  all  these  lives?  .  .  .  But  such 
a  piece  of  villainy  as  this  !  Listen,  Krap  ;  this  affair  must  be  examined  into 
again.  Not  a  word  of  it  to  anyone.  .  .  .  During  the  dinner-hour  you  must 
go  down  there  again  ;  I  must  have  perfect  certainty.  .  .  .  We  cannot  make 
ourselves  accomplices  in  a  crime.     I  must  keep  my  conscience  unspotted,  etc. 

In  Ghosts  the  idea  of  the  lamb  of  sacrifice  is  equally  traves- 
tied. The  asylum  founded  by  Mrs.  Alving  has  been  burnt. 
The  joiner,  Engstrand,  that  theatrical  villain,  succeeds  in  per- 
suading the  idiotic  pastor,  Manders,  that  he — Manders — was 
the  cause  of  the  fire.  And  as  the  pastor  is  made  desperate  by 
the  possible  legal  consequences,  Engstrand  goes  to  him  and 
says  (p.  184) : 

Jacob  Engstrand  isn't  the  man  to  desert  a  noble  benefactor  in  the  hour 
of  need,  as  the  saying  is  [I]. 

Manders.  Yes  ;  but,  my  good  fellow,  how ? 

Engstrand.  Jacob  Engstrand  may  be  likened  to  a  guardian  angel — he 
may,  your  reverence. 

Manders.  No,  no  ;  I  can't  accept  that. 

Engstrand.  Oh,  you  will  though,  all  the  same.  I  know  a  man  that's 
taken  others'  sins  upon  himself  before  now,  I  do. 

Manders.  Jacob  [wrings  his  hand).     You  are  a  rare  character. 

In  A  Dolls  House  the  idea  develops  itself  with  great  beauty. 
Nora  confidently  expects  that  her  husband,  on  hearing  of  her 
forgery,  will  assume  the  blame,  and  she  is  resolved  not  to  accept 
his  sacrifice  (p.  76) : 

Nora.  I  only  wanted  to  tell  you  that,  Christina  ;  you  shall  be  my  witness. 
...  In  case  there  were  to  be  anybody  who  wanted  to  take  the  .  .  .  the 
whole  blame,  I  mean  .  .  .  then  you  will  be  able  to  bear  witness  that  it  is 
not  true,  Christina.  I  know  very  well  what  I  am  saying  ;  I  am  in  full  pos- 
session of  my  senses,  and  I  say  to  you.  Nobody  else  knew  anything  about 
it  •  I  alone  have  done  everything.  .  .  .  But  a  miracle  will  come  to  pass 
even  yet  .  .  .  but  it  is  so  terrible,  Christina  !  It  must  not  happen  for  any- 
thing in  the  world ! 


EGO-MANIA  365 

In  the  deepest  excitement  she  looks  for  the  expected  miracle, 
the  renewal  of  Christ's  act  of  salvation  in  the  narrow  circum- 
stances of  a  small  village — *  I  am  the  Lamb  of  God,  who  taketh 
away  the  sins  of  the  world,'  And,  since  the  miracle  does  not 
come  to  pass,  there  takes  place  the  immense  transformation  in 
her  nature  which  forms  the  real  subject  of  the  piece.  Nora 
explains  this  to  her  husband  with  the  greatest  clearness 
(p.  116): 

.  .  .  The  thought  never  once  occurred  to  me  that  you  could  allow  your- 
self to  submit  to  the  conditions  of  such  a  man.  I  was  so  firmly  convinced 
that  you  would  say  to  him,  '  Pray  make  the  affair  known  to  all  the  world '; 
and  when  that  had  been  done  .  .  .  then  you  would,  as  I  firmly  believed, 
stand  before  the  world,  take  everything  upon  yourself,  and  say,  '  I  am  the 
guilty  person.'  .  .  .  That  was  the  miracle  that  I  hoped  and  feared.  And  it 
was  to  hinder  that  that  I  wanted  to  put  an  end  to  my  life. 

In  The  Wild  Duck  the  idea  of  the  sacrificial  lamb  recurs 
no  less  than  three  times,  and  is  the  moving  force  of  the  whole 
piece.  The  infringement  of  the  forest  laws,  of  which  the  elder 
Ekdal  was  convicted,  was  not  committed  by  him,  but  by 
Werle : 

Werle  ,  .  .  I  was  quite  in  the  dark  as  to  what  Lieutenant  Ekdal  was 
doing. 

Gregers.  Lieutenant  Ekdal  seems  to  have  been  in  the  dark  as  to  what 
he  was  doing. 

Werle.  That  may  be.  But  the  fact  remains  that  he  was  found  guilty, 
and  I  acquitted. 

Gregers.  Yes,  of  course  I  know  that  nothing  was  proved  against  you. 

Werle.  Acquittal  is  acquittal.  Why  do  you  rake  up  old  troubles?  ,  .  . 
I've  done  all  I  could  without  positively  exposing  myself,  and  giving  rise  to 
all  sorts  of  suspicion  and  gossip.  .  .  .  I've  given  Ekdal  copying  to  do  from 
the  office,  and  I  pay  him  far,  far  more  for  it  than  his  work  is  worth. 

Werle  thus  shuffles  his  fault  on  Ekdal,  and  the  latter  breaks 
down  under  the  weight  of  the  cross.  Afterwards,  when  Hjalmar 
learns  that  little  Hedwig  is  not  his  child,  and  disowns  her,  the 
idiot  Gregers  Werle  goes  to  the  despairing  maiden,  and  says  : 

But  suppose  you  were  to  sacrifice  the  wild  duck,  of  your  own  free  will, 
for  his  sake  ? 

Hedwig  {rising').  The  wild  duck  !  .     • 

Gregers.  Suppose  you  were  to  sacrifice,  for  his  sake,  the  dearest  treasure 
you  have  in  the  world  ? 

Hedwig.  Do  you  think  that  would  do  any  good? 

Gregers.  Try  it,  Hedwig. 

Hedwig  {softly,  with  flashing  eyes).  Yes,  I  will  try  it. 

Here,  then,  Hedwig  is  not  to  offer  herself  in  sacrifice,  but  a 
pet  animal,  thus  abasing  the  idea  fiom  Christianity  to  paganism. 
Finally,  it  crops  up  a  third  time.  At  the  last  moment  Hedwig 
cannot  make  up  her  mind  to  kill  the  duck,  and  prefers  turning 
the  pistol  against  her  own  breast,  thus  purchasing  with  her  own 
life  that  of  the  bird.  This  dismal  denouement  is  worrying  and 
foolish,  because  useless  ;   the  poetical  effect  would   have  been 


366  DEGENERATION 

fully  attained  if  Hedwig,  instead  of  dying,  had  only  slightly 
wounded  herself ;  for  in  this  way  she  would  have  furnished 
equally  strong  proof  that  she  was  seriously  determined  to  bear 
witness  to  her  love  for  her  father  by  the  sacrifice  of  her  young 
life,  and  to  restore  peace  between  him  and  her  mother.  But 
aesthetic  criticism  is  not  my  function  ;  I  wilh'ngly  yield  that  to 
phrase-makers.  All  that  I  have  to  indicate  is  the  triple  recur- 
rence in  The  Wild  Duck  of  the  idea  of  the  sacrificial  lamb. 

At  its  third  appearance  this  idea  suffers  a  significant  trans- 
formation. Hedwig  sacrifices  herself,  not  in  expiation  of  an 
offence  —  for  she  is  ignorant  of  her  mother's  guilt  —  but  to 
accomplish  a  work  of  love.  Here  the  mystico- theological 
element  of  redemption  recedes  into  the  background  so  far  as 
to  be  almost  imperceptible,  and  there  remains  hardly  mere 
than  the  purely  human  element  of  the  joy  felt  in  self-sacrifice 
for  others — an  impulse  not  rare  among  good  women,  and  which 
is  a  manifestation  of  the  unsatisfied  yearning  for  maternity 
(often  unknown  to  themselves),  and  at  the  same  time  one  of 
the  noblest  and  holiest  forms  of  altruism.  Ibsen  shows  this 
impulse  in  many  of  his  female  characters,  the  source  of  which 
in  the  religious  mysticism  of  the  poet  would  not  be  at  once 
noticed,  if  from  the  numerous  other  conjugations  of  the  root- 
idea  of  the  sacrificial  lamb  we  had  not  already  acquired  the 
sure  habit  of  recognising  it  even  in  its  obscurations.  Hedwig 
constitutes  a  transition  from  the  theological  to  the  purely 
human  form  of  voluntary  self-sacrifice.  The  over-strung  child 
carries  renunciation  to  the  orthodox  extreme  of  yielding  up 
her  life  ;  Ibsen's  other  v/omen,  to  whose  character  Hedwig 
supplies  the  key,  go  only  to  the  point  of  lovingly  active  self- 
denial.  They  do  not  die  for  others,  but  they  live  for  others. 
In  ^  DoWs  House  Mrs.  Linden  has  this  hunger  for  self- 
sacrifice. 

I  must  work  in  order  to  endure  life  [she  says  to  Krogstad — p.  87].  I 
have  worked  from  my  youth  up,  and  work  has  been  my  one  best  friend. 
But  now  I  am  quite  alone  in  the  world— so  terribly  empty  and  forsaken. 
There  is  no  happiness  in  working  for  one's  self.  Nils,  give  me  somebody 
and  something  to  work  for.  .  .  . 

Krogstad.  What  !   you  really  could  ?    Tell  me,  do  you  know  my  past  ? 

Mrs.  Linden.  Yes. 

Krogstad.  And  do  you  know  my  reputation  ? 

Mrs.  Linden.  Did  you  not  hint  it  just  now,  when  you  said  that  with  me 
you  could  have  been  another  man  ? 

Krogstad.  I  am  perfectly  certain  of  it. 

Mrs.  Linden.  Could  it  not  yet  be  so  ? 

Krogstad.  Christina,  do  you  say  this  after  full  deliberation  ?  .  ,  . 

Mrs.  Linden.  I  need  somebody  to  mother,  and  your  children  need  a 
mother. 

Here  the  idea  is  not  so  disguised  as  to  be  unrecognisable. 
Krogstad  is  a  culprit  and  an  outlaw.     If  Mrs.  Linden  offers  to 


EGO-MANIA  367 

live  for  him,  it  is  certainly  chiefly  from  the  instinct  of  maternity. 
But  in  this  natural  feeling  there  is  also  a  tinge  of  the  mystic 
idea  of  the  sinner's  redemption  through  disinterested  love. 
In  The  Lady  from  the  Sea,  Ellida  wishes  to  return  to  her  birth- 
place on  the  sea,  Skjoldvik,  because  she  believes  there  is 
nothing  for  her  to  do  in  Wangel's  house.  At  the  announce- 
ment of  her  resolution  her  step-daughter,  Hilda,  evinces  a  profound 
despair.  Then  for  the  first  time  Ellida  learns  that  Hilda  loves 
her  ;  there  is  then  born  in  her  the  thought  that  she  has  someone 
to  live  for,  and  she  says  dreamily  :  '  Oh,  if  there  should  be 
something  for  me  to  do  here  !'  In  Rosmersholm  Rebecca  says 
to  KroU  (p.  8)  : 

So  long  as  Mr.  Rosmer  thinks  I  am  of  any  use  or  comfort  to  him,  why, 
so  long,  I  suppose,  I  shall  stay  here. 

Kroll  {looks  at  her  with  emotioii).  Do  you  know,  it's  really  fine  for  a 
woman  to  sacrifice  her  whole  youth  to  others,  as  you  have  done. 

Rebecca.  Oh,  what  else  should  I  have  had  to  live  for? 

In  The  Pillars  of  Society  there  are  two  of  these  touching 
self-sacrificing  souls  —  Miss  Martha  Bernick  and  Miss  Hessel. 
Miss  Bernick  has  reared  the  illegitimate  child  Dina,  and  has 
consecrated  her  own  life  to  her  (p.  52)  : 

Martha.  I  have  been   a  mother  to  that  much-wronged  child  —  have 
brought  her  up  as  well  as  I  could. 
JOHAN.  And  sacrificed  your  whole  life  in  so  doing. 
Martha.  It  has  not  been  thrown  away. 

She  loves  Johan,  but  as  she  sees  that  he  is  attracted  by 
Dina  she  unites  the  two.  She  explains  herself  in  regard  to 
the  incident  in  an  exceedingly  affecting  scene  with  Johan's 
half-sister  (p.  95) : 

LONA.  Now  we  are  alone,  Martha.     You  have  lost  her,  and  I  him. 

Martha.  You  him  t 

LONA.  Oh,  I  had  half  lost  him  already  over  there.  The  boy  longed  to 
stand  on  his  own  feet,  so  I  made  him  think  /was  longing  for  home. 

Martha.  That  was  it  ?  Now  I  understand  why  you  came.  But  he  will 
want  you  back  again,  Lona. 

LoNA.  An  old  stepsister — what  can  he  want  with  her  now  ?  Men  snap 
many  bonds  to  arrive  at  happiness. 

Martha.  It  is  so,  sometimes. 

Lona.  But  now  we  two  must  hold  together,  Martha. 

Martha.  Can  I  be  anything  to  you  .'' 

Lona.  Who  more  ?  We  two  foster-mothers — have  we  not  both  lost  our 
children  "i     Now  we  are  alone. 

Martha.  Yes,  alone.  And  therefore  I  will  tell  you — I  have  loved  him 
more  than  all  the  world. 

Lona.  Martha  !  {seises  her  arm).     Is  this  the  truth  } 

Martha.  My  whole  life  lies  in  the  words.  I  have  loved  him,  and  waited 
for  him.  From  summer  to  summer  I  have  looked  for  his  coming.  And 
then  he  came,  but  he  did  not  see  me. 

Lona.   Loved  him  !  and  it  was  you  that  gave  his  happiness  into  his  hands 

Martha.  Should  I  not  have  given  him  his  happiness,  since  I  loved  huui 


368  DEGENERATION 

Yes,  I  have  loved  him.  My  whole  life  has  been  for  him  .  .  .  He  did  not 
see  me. 

LONA.  It  was  Dina  that  overshadowed  you,  Martha. 

Martha.  It  is  well  that  she  did  !  When  he  went  away  we  were  of  the 
same  age.  When  I  saw  him  again — oh,  that  horrible  moment  ! — it  seemed 
to  me  that  I  was  ten  years  older  than  he.  He  had  lived  in  the  bright, 
quivering  sunshine,  and  drunk  in  youth  and  health  at  every  breath  ;  and 
here  sat  I,  the  while,  spinning  and  spinning* 

LoNA.  The  thread  of  his  happiness,  Martha. 

Martha.  Yes,  it  was  gold  I  spun.  No  bitterness  !  Is  it  not  true,  Lona, 
we  have  been  two  good  sisters  to  him  ? 

In  Hedda  Gabler  it  is  Miss  Tesman,  aunt  of  the  imbecile 
Tesman,  who  plays  the  pathetic  part  of  the  sacrificial  mother. 
She  has  brought  him  up,  and  when  he  marries  gives  him  the 
largest  part  of  her  modest  income.  '  Oh,  aunt,'  bleats  the 
poor  idiot  (p.  i8),  'you  will  never  be  tired  of  sacrificing  yourself 
for  me!'  'Do  you  think,'  replies  the  good  creature,  'I  have 
any  other  joy  in  this  world  than  to  smooth  the  way  for  )^ou, 
my  dear  boy — you  who  have  never  had  a  father  or  a  mother 
to  look  after  you  V  And  when  subsequently  the  paralytic  sister 
of  Miss  Tesman  is  dead,  Hedda  and  she  hold  this  conversation 
(p.  196)  : 

Hedda.  It  will  be  lonesome  for  you  now.  Miss  Tesman. 

Miss  Tesman.  The  first  few  days,  yes.  But  that  won't  last  very  long. 
Dear  Rina's  little  room  will  not  always  be  empty,  that  I  know. 

Hedda.  Indeed  !     Who  is  going  to  move  into  it,  eh  ? 

Miss  Tesman.  Oh,  there  is  always  some  poor  invalid  or  other  who  needs 
to  be  looked  after  and  tended,  unfortunately. 

Hedda.  Will  you  really  take  such  a  burden  upon  you  again  ? 

Miss  Tesman.  Burden  !  God  forgive  you,  child  !  that  has  never  been  a 
burden  to  me. 

Hedda.  But  now,  if  a  stranger  should  come,  then  surely 

Miss  Tesman.  Oh,  one  soon  becomes  friends  with  sick  people.  And  I 
must  positively  have  someone  to  live  for,  too. 

The  three  Christo-dogmatic  obsessions  of  original  sin,  con- 
fession, and  self-sacrifice,  filling  Ibsen's  dramas,  as  we  have 
seen,  from  the  first  line  to  the  last,  are  not  the  only  tokens  of 
his  mysticism.  This  betrays  itself  by  a  whole  series  of  other 
peculiarities,  which  shall  be  briefly  indicated. 

At  the  head  of  these  stands  the  astoundingly  chaotic  nature 
of  his  thought.  One  cannot  believe  one's  eyes  while  reading 
how  his  fulsome  flatterers  have  had  the  audacity  to  extol  him 
for  the  *  clearness  '  and  *  precision  '  of  his  thought.  Do  these 
individuals,  then,  imagine  that  no  one  capable  of  forming  a 
judgment  will  ever  read  a  line  of  Ibsen  }  A  clearly-defined 
thought  is  an  extraordinary  rarity  in  this  Norwegian  dramatist. 
Everything  floats  and  undulates,  nebulous  and  amorphous,  such 
as  we  are  accustomed  to  see  in  weak-brained  degenerates. 
And  if  he  once  succeeds,  with  toil  and  stress,  in  grasping 
anything  and  expressing  it  in  a  moderately  intelligible  manner, 


EGO-MANIA  369 

he  unfailingly  hastens,  a  few  pages  later,  or  in  a  subsequent 
piece,  to  say  the  exact  opposite.  A  talk  is  made  of  Ibsen's 
'  ideas  on  morality '  and  of  his  '  philosophy.'  He  has  not 
formulated  a  single  proposition  on  morality,  a  single  conception 
of  the  world  and  life,  that  he  has  not  himself  either  refuted  or 
fittingly  ridiculed. 

He  seems  to  preach  free  love,  and  his  eulogy  of  a  licentious- 
ness unchecked  by  any  self-control,  regardless  of  contracts, 
laws,  and  morality,  has  made  of  him  a  '  modern  spirit '  in 
the  eyes  of  Georg  Brandes  and  similar  protectors  of  those 
'  youths  who  wish  to  amuse  themselves  a  little.'  Mrs.  Alving 
(Gkosis,  p.  158),  calls  a  'crime'  the  act  of  Pastor  Manders  in 
repulsing  her,  after  she  has  quitted  her  husband  and  thrown 
herself  on  the  pastor's  neck.  This  highly-strung  dame  pushes 
Regina  into  the  arms  of  Oswald,  her  son,  when  in  shameless 
speech  he  informs  her  that  it  would  give  him  pleasure  to  possess 
the  girl.  And  this  very  same  Mrs.  Alving  speaks  in  terms 
of  the  deepest  indignation  of  her  dead  husband  as  'profligate' 
(p.  146),  and  again  designates  him  in  the  presence  of  her  son 
as  a  'broken-down  man'  (in  the  original  it  is  '  et  forfaldent 
Menneske,'  an  epithet  usually  bestowed  on  fallen  women),  and 
why  ?  Because  he  had  had  wanton  relations  with  women  1 
Well,  but  is  it  in  Ibsen's  opinion  permissible,  or  not  permissible, 
to  gratify  carnal  lust  as  often  as  it  is  awakened .''  If  it  is 
permissible,  how  does  Mrs.  Alving  come  to  speak  with  scorn 
of  her  husband  ?  If  it  is  not  permissible,  how  dared  she  offer 
herself  to  Pastor  Manders,  and  be  the  procuress  between  Regina 
and  her  own  half-brother  ?  Or  does  the  moral  law  hold  good 
for  man  only,  and  not  for  woman  ?  An  English  proverb  says, 
'  What's  sauce  for  the  goose  is  sauce  for  the  gander.'  Ibsen 
evidently  does  not  share  the  opinion  of  popular  lore.  A  woman 
who  runs  away  from  her  legal  husband  and  pursues  a  lover 
(Mrs.  Elvsted  and  Ejlert  Lovborg,  in  Hedda  Gabler),  or  who 
offers  to  form  an  illicit  connection  with  a  man,  although  nothing 
prevents  their  marrying  without  further  ado  like  other  rational 
ratepayers  (Mrs.  Linden  and  Krogstad  in  A  Doll's  House) — 
such  women  have  Ibsen's  entire  approbation  and  sympathy. 
But  if  a  man  seduces  a  maiden  and  liberally  provides  for  her 
subsequent  maintenance  (Werle  and  Gina  in  The  Wild  Duck), 
or,  again,  if  he  has  illicit  relations  with  a  married  woman 
(Consul  Bernick  and  the  actress  Dorf  in  The  Pillars  of  Society), 
then  it  is  so  heinous  a  crime  that  the  culprit  remains  branded 
his  whole  life,  and  is  nailed  by  the  poet  to  the  pillory  with  the 
cruelty  of  a  mediaeval  executioner. 

The  same  contradiction  finds  its  expression  in  another  and 
more  general  form.  At  one  time  Ibsen  contends  with  ferocious 
impetuosity  that  everyone  is  '  a  law  unto  himself  alone,  i.e.,  that 
24 


370  DEGENERATION 

he  should  obey  every  one  of  his  caprices,  nay,  even  of  his  dis- 
eased impulsions  ;  that,  as  his  commentators  idiotically  put  it, 
he  should  [sick  auslebe)  '  live  out  his  life.'  In  The  Pillars  of 
Society  Miss  Bernick  says  to  Dina  (p.  94)  : 

Promise  me  to  make  him  [her  betrothed]  happy. 

Dina.  I  will  not  promise  anything.  I  hate  this  promising  ;  things  must 
come  as  they  can  {i.e.,  as  the  circumstances  of  the  moment  may  suggest  to 
the  wayward  brain]. 

Martha.  Yes,  )  es  ;  so  they  must.  You  need  only  remain  as  you  are, 
true  and  faithful  to  yourself. 

Dina.  That  I  will,  Aunt  Martha. 

In  Rosmersholm,  Rosmer  says  admiringly  of  the  scoundrel 
Brendel  (p.  28)  :  '  At  least  he  has  had  the  courage  to  live  his  life 
his  own  way.  I  don't  think  that's  such  a  small  matter  after  all/ 
In  the  same  piece  Rebecca  complains  (p.  97)  :  '  Rosmersholm 
has  broken  me.  .  .  .  Broken  me  utterly  and  hopelessly.  I  had 
a  fresh,  undaunted  will  when  I  came  here.  Now  I  have  bent 
my  neck  under  a  strange  law.'  And  further  on  (p.  102)  :  '  It 
is  the  Rostner  view  of  life  .  .  .  that  has  infected  my  will.  .  .  . 
and  made  it  sick,  enslaved  it  to  laws  that  had  no  power  over 
me  before.'  Ejlert  Lovborg  laments  in  like  fashion  in  Hedda 
Gabler.  '  But  it  is  this — that  I  don't  want  to  live  that  kind  of 
life  either.  Not  now,  over  again.  It  is  the  courage  of  life  and 
the  defiance  of  life  that  she '  (Thea  Elvested,  with  her  sweet, 
loving  constraint)  '  has  snapped  in  me.'  Quite  in  opposition  to 
these  views,  Ibsen,  in  his  Ghosts.,  makes  Regina  proclaim  her 
'right  to  live  out  her  life'  in  these  words  (p.  189):  'Oh!  I 
really  can't  stop  out  here  in  the  country  and  wear  myself  out- 
nursing  sick  people  ...  a  poor  girl  must  make  the  best  of  her 
young  days.  ...  I,  too,  want  to  enjoy  my  life,  Mrs.  Alving.' 
Mrs.  Alving  replies:  *Alas!  yes.^  This 'alas'  is  bewildering. 
Alas  ?  Why  '  alas  '  ?  Does  she  not  obey  her  *  law '  if  she 
satisfies  her  'joy  in  living,'  and,  as  she  forthwith  explains,  enters 
the  house  of  ill-fame  for  sailors  set  up  by  the  joiner  Engstrand  ? 
How  can  Mrs.  Alving  utter  this  '  alas,'  when  she  also  was  'obey- 
ing her  law '  in  offering  herself  as  the  mistress  of  Pastor 
Manders,  and  since  she  wished  to  aid  her  son  in  '  obeying  his 
law,'  when  he  had  set  his  eyes  on  Regina?  It  is  because  Ibsen, 
in  his  lucid  moments,  feels  that  there  may  be  something  of 
danger  in  '  obeying  one's  law,'  and  this  '  alas '  of  Mrs.  Alving 
escapes  him  as  a  confession.  In  The  Wild  Duck  he  ridicules 
his  own  dogma  in  the  most  liberal  style.  In  that  piece  there 
is  one  Molvig,  a  candidate  for  a  University  degree,  who  also 
*  obeys  his  law.'  This  law  prescribes  that  he  shall  learn  nothing, 
evade  his  examinations,  and  pass  his  nights  in  taverns.  The 
scoffer,  Relling,  asserts  (p.  317)  that  it  'comes  over  him  like  a 
sort  of  possession  ;  and  then  I  have  to  go  out  on  the  loose  with 


EGO-MANIA  371 

him.  Molvig  is  a  demoniac,  you  see,  .  .  .  and  demoniac  natures 
are  not  made  to  walk  straight  through  the  world  ;  they  must 
meander  now  and  then.  And  in  order  that  there  shall  be  no 
doubt  as  to  what  Relling  means  by  this,  he  subsequently 
explains  (p.  361):  '"What  the  devil  do  you  mean  by  demoniac?" 
"  It's  only  a  piece  of  hocus-pocus  I've  invented  to  keep  up  a 
spark  of  life  in  him.  But  for  that  the  poor  harmless  creature 
would  have  succumbed  to  self-contempt  and  despair  many  a 
long  year  ago.' " 

That  is  true.  Molvig  is  a  pitiable  weakling,  unable  to  con- 
quer his  indolence  and  passion  for  drink  ;  abandoned  to  his 
own  devices,  he  would  recognise  himself  for  the  miserable 
creature  he  is,  and  despise  himself  as  profoundly  as  he  deserves ; 
but  Relling  arrives  on  the  scene,  and  gives  his  lack  of  character 
the  title  '  demoniac,'  and  now '  the  child  has  a  fine  name,'  which 
Molvig  can  make  a  parade  of  to  himself  and  others.  Ibsen  does 
exactly  the  same  thing  as  his  Relling.  The  weakness  of  will, 
incapable  of  resisting  base  and  pitiable  instincts,  he  praises  as 
the  '  will  to  live  out  one's  life,'  as  the  '  freedom  of  a  spirit  who 
obeys  his  own  law  only,'  and  recommends  it  as  the  sole  rule  of 
life.  But,  unlike  Relling,  he  is  for  the  most  part  ignorant  of 
the  fact  that  he  is  practising  a  deception  (which  I  by  no  means 
regard  in  Relling's  light  as  pious  and  charitable),  and  believes 
in  his  own  humbug.  That  is,  for  the  most  part ;  not  always. 
Here  and  there,  as  in  The  Wild  Duck,  he  recognises  his  error 
and  scourges  it  severely ;  and  his  inmost  feeling  is  so  little 
influenced  by  his  self-deceptive  phrase,  fit  for  a  weak-willed 
degenerate,  that  he  involuntarily  and  unconsciously  betrays,  in 
all  his  productions,  his  deep  abhorrence  of  men  who  'obey  their 
own  law  in  order  to  live  out  their  life.'  He  punishes  Chamber- 
lain Alving  in  his  son,  and  makes  him  cursed  by  his  widow 
because  he  has  *  lived  out  his  life.'  He  imputes  it  as  a  crime  to 
Consul  Bernick  and  the  merchant  Werle  that  they  have  '  lived 
out  their  life,'  the  former  in  sacrificing  his  brother-in-law 
Johan  to  protect  himself,  and  for  his  intrigue  with  Mrs.  Dorf, 
the  actress ;  and  the  latter  for  allowing  Ekdal  to  bear  the  blame 
of  his  fault,  and  for  seducing  Gina.  He  surrounds  with  an 
aureole  the  glorified  heads  of  Rosmer  and  Rebecca,  because 
they  did  not  'live  out  their  life,'  but,  on  the  contrary,  'died 
their  death,'  if  I  may  put  it  so  ;  because  they  obeyed,  not  '  their 
own  law,'  but  that  of  others,  the  universal  moral  law  that 
annihilated  them.  Whenever  one  of  his  characters  acts  in 
accordance  with  Ibsen's  doctrine,  and  does  what  is  agreeable  to 
himself  regardless  of  morals  and  law,  he  experiences  such  con- 
trition and  self-torment  that  he  is  unable  to  find  calm  and 
joy  until  he  has  disburdened  his  conscience  by  confession  and 
expiation. 


372  DEGENERATION 

'  This  living  out  one's  life  '  makes  its  appearance  in  Ibsen  in 
the  form  also  of  a  rigid  individualism.  The  'self  is  the  only- 
real  thing  ;  the  '  I '  must  be  cherished  and  developed,  as,  indeed, 
Barres  preaches  independently  of  Ibsen.  The  first  duty  of 
every  human  being  is  to  be  just  to  his  '  I,' to  satisfy  its  de- 
mands, to  sacrifice  to  it  every  consideration  for  others.  When 
Nora  wishes  to  abandon  her  husband,  he  cries  (p.  112)  : 

Only  think  what  people  will  say  about  it ! 

Nora.  I  cannot  take  that  into  consideration.  I  only  know  that  to  go  is 
necessary  for  me. 

H  ELMER.  Oh,  it  drives  one  wild!  Is  this  the  way  you  can  evade  your 
holiest  duties  ? 

Nora.  What  do  you  consider  my  holiest  duties  ? 

H ELMER  ....  Are  they  not  your  duties  to  your  husband  and  your  children? 

Nora.  I  have  other  duties  equally  sacred. 

Helmer.    .  .  .  What  duties  do  you  mean? 

Nora.  Duties  towards  myself. 

Helmer.  Before  all  else  you  are  a  wife  and  a  mother. 

Nora.  I  no  longer  think  so.  I  think  that  before  all  else  I  am  a  human 
being  just  as  you  are,  or,  at  least,  I  will  try  to  become  one. 

In  Ghosts  Oswald  says  to  his  mother  with  triumphant  brutality 
(p.  192)  :  *  I  can't  be  much  taken  up  with  other  people.  I  have 
enough  to  do  thinking  about  myself.'  How  in  the  same  piece 
Regina  emphasizes  her  '  I '  and  its  rights,  we  have  already  seen. 
In  An  Enemy  of  the  People,  Stockmann  proclaims  the  right  of 
the  *  I '  in  face  of  the  majority,  and  even  the  race,  in  these  words 
(p.  283)  :  '  It  is  a  hideous  lie  :  the  doctrine  that  the  multitude, 
the  vulgar  herd,  the  masses,  are  the  pith  of  the  people — that, 
indeed,  they  are  the  people — that  the  common  man,  that  this 
ignorant,  undeveloped  member  of  society,  has  the  same  right  to 
condemn  or  to  sanction,  to  govern  and  to  rule,  as  the  few  people 
of  intellectual  power.'  And  (p.  312):  'I  only  want  to  drive 
into  the  heads  of  these  curs  that  the  Liberals  are  the  worst 
foes  of  free  men  .  .  .  that  the  considerations  of  expediency 
turn  morality  and  righteousness  upside  down  until  life  is  simply 
hideous.  .  .  .  Now  I  am  one  of  the  strongest  men  upon  earth. 
.  .  .  You  see  the  fact  is  that  the  strongest  man  upon  earth  is 
he  who  stands  most  alone.'  But  this  very  Stockmann,  who  will 
hear  nothing  of  '  the  multitude,  the  vulgar  herd,  the  masses,'  as 
he  reiterates  with  insufferable  tautology,  who  feels  his  *  I ' 
powerful  only  in  a  majestic  solitude,  calls  his  fellow-citizens 
'  old  women  who  think  only  of  their  families,*  and  not  of  the 
general  good.^  And  in  the  very  same  piece  {A  Doll's  House), 
in  which  Ibsen  evidently  bestows  loud  applause  on  Nora  for 
declaring  that  '  her  only  duties  were  to  herself,'  and  that  she 
'could  have  no  consideration  for  anyone  else,' he  stigmatizes 
her  husband  as  a  pitiable,  low-spirited  weakling,  because  on  his 

*  In  the  German  text,  'only  of  themselves  and  their  families.' — Trans- 
lator. 


EGO-MANIA  373 

wife's  confession  of  forgery  he  first  of  all  thinks  of  his  own 
reputation  only,  and  hence  of  his  'duty  to  himself,'  his  only 
consideration  being  for  himself,  and  not  for  his  wife.  Here 
there  recurs  the  same  phenomenon  as  in  Ibsen's  notions  con- 
cerning sexual  morality.  Unchastity  in  a  man  is  a  crime,  but 
in  a  woman  is  permissible.  In  the  same  way  the  rude  empha- 
sizing of  the  '  I '  is  a  merit  only  in  the  woman.  The  man  has 
no  right  to  be  an  egoist.  How,  for  example,  Ibsen  rails  at 
egoism  through  Bernick  (in  The  Pillars  of  Society),  whom  he 
makes  say  naively,  in  reference  to  his  sister  Martha,  that  she  *is 
quite  insignificant '  (p.  49),  and  that  he  does  not  wish  to  have 
her  otherwise  ! 

You  know,  in  a  large  house  like  ours,  it  is  always  well  to  have  some 
steady-going  person  like  her,  whom  one  can  put  to  anything  that  may  turn 
up. 

JOHAN.  Yes,  but  she  herself? 

Bernick.  She  herself?  Why,  of  course  she  has  enough  to  interest  herself 
in — Betty  and  Olaf,  and  me,  you  know.  People  should  not  think  of  them- 
selves first,  and  women  least  of  all. 

And  how  severely  Ibsen  condemns  the  egoism  of  Mrs. 
Elvsted's  husband  {Hedda  Gabler),  when  he  puts  these  bitter 
words  into  her  mouth  (p.  52)  :  '  He  is  not  really  fond  of  anybody 
but  himself.     Perhaps  of  the  children  a  little  !' 

But  the  most  remarkable  thing  about  this  philosopher  of 
individualism  is  that  he  not  only  expressly  condemns  egoism  in 
the  man  as  a  low  vice,  but  unconsciously  also  admires  dis- 
interestedness in  the  woman  as  an  angelic  perfection.  In  A 
Doll's  House  (p.  113)  he  brags  that  'my  most  sacred  duties  are 
towards  myself^  And  yet  the  only  touching  and  charming 
characters  in  his  pieces  with  whom  this  inflexible  individualist 
is  successful  are  the  saintly  women  who  live  and  die  for  others 
only — these  Hedwigs,  Miss  Bernicks,  Miss  Hessels,  Aunt 
Tesmans,  etc.,  who  never  think  of  their  '  I,'  but  make  the 
sacrifice  of  all  their  impulses  and  wishes  to  the  welfare  of  others 
their  sole  task  on  earth.  This  contradiction,  violent  to  the 
point  of  absurdity,  is  very  well  explained  by  the  nature  of 
Ibsen's  mind.  His  mystico-religious  obsession  of  voluntary 
self-sacrifice  for  others  is  necessarily  stronger  than  his  pseudo- 
philosophic  lucubration  on  individualism. 

Among  the  '  moral  ideas'  of  Ibsen  are  counted  his  professed 
thirst  for  truth.  At  least  enough  has  been  said  and  written  on 
this  subject.  '  Only  just  think,'  Helmer  says  to  Nora  {A  Doll's 
House,  pp.  44,  45),  '  how  a  man  so  conscious  of  guilt  as  that 
must  go  about  everywhere  lying,  and  a  hypocrite,  and  an 
actor  ;  how  he  must  wear  a  mask  towards  his  neighbour,  and 
even  his  wife  and  children,  his  own  children.  That's  the  worst, 
Nora.  .  .  .  Because  such  a  misty  atmosphere  of  lying  brings 
contagion  into  the  whole  family.'     '  Is  there  no  voice  in  your 


374  DEGENERATION 

mother's  heart  that  forbids  you  to  destroy  your  son's  ideals  ?' 
asks  Pastor  Manders  in  Ghosts  (p.  155),  when  Mrs.  Alving  has 
revealed  to  her  son  her  defunct  husband's  *  immorality.'  To 
which  Mrs.  Alving  magniloquently  replies,  *  But  what  about  the 
truth  V  In  The  Pillars  of  Society,  Lona  Hessel  thus  preaches 
to  Consul  Bernick  (p.  5.7) : 

Is  it  for  the  sake  of  the  community,  then,  that  for  these  fifteen  years  you 
have  stood  upon  a  lie  ? 

Bernick.  Alie?  .  .  •    You  call  that 

Lona.  I  call  it  the  lie — the  threefold  lie.  First  the  lie  towards  me  ;  then 
the  lie  towards  Betty  ;  then  the  lie  towards  Johan.  ...  Is  there  not  some- 
thing within  you  that  asks  you  to  get  clear  of  the  lie  ? 

■   Bernick.  You  would  have  me  voluntarily  sacrifice  my  domestic  happi- 
ness, and  my  position  in  society? 

Lona.  What  right  have  you  to  stand  where  you  are  standing  ? 

And  subsequently  (p.  70) : 

Lona.  A  lie,  then,  has  made  you  the  man  you  now  are  ? 

Bernick.  Whom  did  it  hurt,  then  ?  .  .  . 

Lona.  You  ask  whom  it  hurt  ?  Look  into  yourself,  and  see  if  it  has  not 
hurt  you. 

Bernick  then  examines  himself,  and  shortly  before  his  con- 
fession there  takes  place  a  highly  edifying  dialogue  between 
him  and  the  severe  guardian  of  his  conscience  (p.  98) : 

Bernick.  Yes,  yes,  yes  ,•  it  all  comes  of  the  lie.  .  .  . 

Lona.  Then,  why  do  you  not  break  with  all  this  lying  ?  .  .  .  What  satis- 
faction does  this  show  and  deception  give  you  1 

Bernick  ....  It  is  my  son  I  am  working  for.  .  .  .  There  will  come  a 
time  when  truth  shall  spread  through  the  life  of  our  society,  and  upon  it  he 
shall  found  a  happier  life  than  his  father's. 

Lona.  With  a  lie  for  its  groundwork?  Reflect  what  it  is  you  are  giving 
your  son  for  an  inheritance. 

In  An  Enemy  of  the  People,  words  of  truth  are  ever  coming 
from  the  mouths  of  the  Stockmann  family  :  '  There's  so  much 
falseness  both  at  home  and  at  school,'  declaims  their  daughter, 
Petra.  '  At  home  you  mustn't  speak,  and  at  school  you  have  to 
stand  there  and  lie  to  the  children.  .  .  .  We  have  to  teach 
many  and  many  a  thing  we  don't  believe  ourselves.  ...  If 
only  I  could  afford  it  I'd  start  a  school  myself,  and  things  should 
be  very  different  there.'  The  courageous  maiden  quarrels  with 
an  editor  who  wished  to  marry  her  about  his  want  of  veracity 
(p.  255)  :  '  What  I  am  angry  with  you  for  is  that  you  have  not 
acted  honestly  towards  my  father.  You  told  him  it  was  only 
the  truth  and  the  goool  of  the  community  you  cared  about.  .  .  . 
You  are  not  the  man  you  pretend  to  be.  And  I  shall  never 
forgive  you — never  !'  '  The  whole  of  our  developing  social  life,' 
cries  the  father  Stockmann  in  his  turn  (p.  242),  '  is  rooted  in  a 
lie.'  And  later  on  (p.  287)  :  '  Yes,  I  love  my  native  town  so 
well  I  would  rather  ruin  it  than  see  it  flourishing  upon  a  lie.  .  .  . 
All  men  who  live  upon  lies  must  be  exterminated  like  vermin. 
You'll  poison  the  whole  country  in  time  ;  you'll  bring  it  to  such 


EGO-MANIA  375 

a  pass  that  the  whole  country  will  deserve  to  perish.'  Now,  all 
this  would  certainly  be  very  fine,  if  we  did  not  know  that  this 
fervent  worship  of  truth  is  only  one  of  the  forms  under  which 
there  appears  in  Ibsen's  consciousness  the  mystico-religious 
obsession  of  the  sacrament  of  confession,  and  also,  if  he  were  not 
careful,  conformably  with  his  habit,  to  destroy  any  too  hasty 
belief  in  the  sincerity  of  his  phraseology  by  himself  ridiculing  it. 
In  Gregers  Werle  he  has  created  the  best  caricature  of  his  men 
of  truth.  Gregers  speaks  in  exactly  the  same  terms  as  Lona 
Hessel,  Petra  Stockmann,  and  her  father,  but  in  his  mouth  the 
words  are  intended  to  excite  laughter :  '  And  look  at  this  con- 
fiding nature,  this  great  child,'  he  says  of  his  friend  Hjalmar 
(p.  41).  'See  him  enveloped  in  a  net  of  perfidy,  living  under 
the  same  roof  as  a  woman  of  that  kind,  not  suspecting  that  his 
home,  as  he  calls  it,  rests  upon  a  lie.  ...  At  length  I  see  an 
object  in  life.'  This  object  consists  in  operating  on  Hjalmar^s 
moral  cataract.  And  he  does  it,  too.  *  You  are  sunk  in  a 
poisoned  quagmire,  Hjalmar,'  Gregers  says  to  him  (p.  loi). 
'You  have  an  insidious  disease  within  you,  and  you've  sunk  down 
to  die  in  the  dark.  .  .  .  Don't  be  afraid  ;  I  will  try  to  help  you 
up  again.  I,  too,  have  a  mission  in  life  now.'  And  shortly 
afterwards  he  says  to  the  father  :  '  But  Hjalmar  I  can  rescue 
from  all  the  falsehood  and  deception  that  are  bringing  him  to 
ruin.'  The  scofter  Relling  treats  no  worse  than  he  deserves  the 
idiot  who,  in  fulfilling  his  '  mission  in  life '  disturbs  the  peace 
between  Hjalmar  and  his  wife,  destroys  their  comfortable  home, 
and  drives  Hedwig  to  her  death. 

Yours  is  a  complicated  case  .  .  .  that  troublesome  integrity-fever  [he  says 
to  him — p.  360]  .  .  . 

I'm  fostering  the  Hfe-illusion  [literally  '  the  life-lie  ']  in  him. 

Gregers.  Life-illusion?     Is  that  what  you  said? 

Relling.  Yes,  I  said  illusion.  For  illusion,  you  know,  is  the  stimulating 
principle.  .  .  .  Rob  the  average  man  of  his  life-illusion,  and  you  rob  him  of 
his  happiness  at  the  same  time. 

Now,  what  is  Ibsen's  real  opinion  ?  Is  a  man  to  strive  for 
truth,  or  to  swelter  in  deceit  ?  Is  Ibsen,  with  Stockmann  or 
with  Relling .''  Ibsen  owes  us  an  answer  to  these  questions,  or, 
rather,  he  replies  to  them  affirmatively  and  negatively  with 
equal  ardour  and  equal  poetic  power. 

Another  'moral  idea'  of  Ibsen,  about  which  his  choristers 
chatter  most  loudly,  is  that  of  '  true  marriage.'  It  is  certainly 
not  easy  to  discover  what  his  mystic  brain  conceives  by  these 
mysterious  words,  but  it  is  nevertheless  possible  to  guess  it 
from  the  hundred  obscure  notions  in  his  plays.  He  does  not 
seem  to  approve  of  the  idea  that  the  woman  should  regard 
marriage  as  merely  a  means  of  maintenance.  In  nearly  all  his 
pieces  he  comes  to  this  conclusion  with  the  monotony  peculiar 
to  him.     In  Ghosts,  Mrs.  Alving  ascribes  her  whole  life's  un- 


376  DEGENERATION 

happiness  to  the  fact  that  she  married  the  chamberlain  for  his 
money — that  she  sold  herself.  *  The  sums  which  I  have  spent 
upon  the  orphanage  year  by  year  make  up  the  amount  —  I 
have  reckoned  it  up  precisely  —  the  amount  vv^hich  made 
Lieutenant  Alving  a  good  match  in  his  day.  ...  It  was  the 
purchase-money.  I  do  not  choose  that  money  should  pass 
into  Oswald's  hands'  (p.  149).  In  TJie  Lady  from  the  Sea, 
Ellida  sings  the  same  song  (p.  139)  :  '  It  could  bring  nothing 
but  unhappiness,  after  the  way  in  which  we  came  together.  .  .  . 
Yes,  we  are  (doing  so),  or,  at  least,  we  suppress  the  truth.  For 
the  truth  ...  is,  that  you  came  out  there  and  bought  me.  .  .  . 
I  was  not  a  bit  better  than  you.  I  accepted  the  bargain — sold 
myself  to  you.  I  was  so  helpless  and  bewildered,  and  so 
absolutely  alone.  Oh,  it  was  so  natural  I  should  accept  the 
bargain  when  you  came  and  proposed  to  provide  for  me  all 
my  life.'  In  almost  the  same  words  Hedda  says  {Hedda 
Gabler,  p.  86)  :  '  And  then  he  would  go  and  make  such  a 
tremendous  fuss  about  being  allowed  to  provide  for  me.  I 
did  not  know  why  I  should  not  accept  it.'  She  did  not  know 
why ;  but  her  inner  feverishness  and  restlessness,  her  final 
suicide,  are  the  consequence  of  her  having  allowed  herself  to 
be  '  provided  for.^  The  regard  paid  to  the  '  being  provided 
for'  became  also  the  lifelong  misery  of  another  woman  in  the 
same  piece — Mrs.  Elvsted.  She  went  originally  as  'governess 
in  the  house  of  her  future  husband.'  She  subsequently  under- 
took the  management  of  the  household.  Then  she  allowed 
herself  to  be  married,  although  '  everything  around  him  is 
distasteful  to  me,'  and  '  we  do  not  possess  a  thought  in  common.' 
Ibsen  condemns  the  man  who  marries  for  money  not  less  than 
the  woman  who  allows  herself  to  be  *  provided  for.'  The  cause 
of  Bernick's  moral  downfall  {The  Pillars  of  Society,  p.  56),  is 
chiefly  that  he  did  not  marry  Lona  Hessel,  whom  he  loved, 
but  another.  '  It  was  for  no  new  fancy  that  I  broke  with  you ; 
it  was  entirely  for  the  sake  of  the  money.' 

Hence  one  should  not  marry  for  gain.  That  is  a  principle 
to  which  every  rational  and  moral  man  will  subscribe.  But 
why  should  one  marry  ?  The  most  reasonable  answer  can  only 
be,  *  From  inclination.'  But  Ibsen  will  have  none  of  this  either. 
The  marriage  of  Nora  and  Helmer  is  purely  a  love-match.  It 
leads  to  a  sudden  rupture.  Wangel  {The  Lady  from  the 
Sea)  has  married  Ellida  from  inclination.  She  expressly 
affirms  it  (p.  108)  :  'You  had  only  seen  me  and  spoken  to  me 
a  few  times.  Then  you  wanted  me,  and  so  .  .  .'  And  then 
she  feels  herself  a  stranger  to  him,  and  wishes  to  leave  him. 
So  Mrs.  Alving,  Ellida,  Wangel,  Hedda  Gabler,  Mrs.  Elvsted, 
marry  from  self-interest,  and  atone  for  it  by  the  happiness 
of  their  life.     Nora  marries  for  love,  and  becomes  profoundly 


EGO-MANIA  377 

unhappy.  Consul  Bernick  marries  a  girl  because  she  is  rich, 
and  pays  for  this  fault  with  his  moral  downfall.  Dr.  Wangel 
marries  a  girl  because  she  pleases  him,  and  as  a  reward  she 
wishes  to  quit  him  and  her  home.  What  conclusion  is  to  be 
drawn  from  all  this?  That  marriage  from  prudence  is  bad, 
and  marriage  from  love  no  better  ?  That  marriage  in  general 
is  worth  nothing,  and  should  be  abolished  .''  That  would  be 
at  least  an  inference  and  a  solution.  It  is  not  there  that  Ibsen 
arrives.  Inclination  does  not  suffice,  even  if,  as  in  the  case 
of  Nora,  it  is  reciprocal.  Something  else  is  still  necessary — the 
man  must  become  the  educator  of  his  wife.  He  must  help 
her  intellectually.  He  must  let  her  participate  in  all  his 
concerns,  make  of  her  a  companion  possessing  equal  rights, 
and  have  unlimited  confidence  in  her.  Otherwise  she  always 
remains  a  stranger  in  her  house.  Otherwise  the  marriage  is  no 
'  true  marriage.  '  I  have  no  right  to  claim  my  husband  wholly 
and  solely  for  myself,'  Ellida  confesses  {T/ie  Lady  from  the  Sea, 
p.  57).  '  Why,  I,  too,  live  in  something  from  which  others  are 
shut  out.'  In  the  same  piece  Wangel  blames  himself  in  this 
way  (p.  130J:  'I  ought  to  have  been  at  once  a  father  to  her 
and  a  guide ;  I  ought  to  have  done  my  best  to  develop  and 
enlighten  her  mind.  Unfortunately,  nothing  ever  came  of  that. 
...  I  preferred  her  just  as  she  was.'  In  The  Pillars  of  Society 
Mrs.  Bernick  bemoans  (p.  141)  :  *  For  many  years  I  believed 
that  I  had  at  one  time  possessed  you  and  lost  you  again.  Now 
I  know  that  I  have  never  possessed  you.'  And  Lona  Hessel 
draws  the  moral  from  this  story  (p.  97)  : 

And  do  you  never  think  what  she  might  have  been  to  you — she,  whom 
you  chose  in  my  stead  ? 

Bernick.  I  know,  at  any  rate,  that  she  has  been  to  me  nothing  of  what  I 
required. 

LoNA.  Because  you  have  never  shared  your  life-work  with  her ;  because 
yoii  have  never  placed  her  in  a  free  and  true  relation  to  you. 

In  Rosmershohn  Rector  Kroll  has  treated  his  wife  in  the 
same  way  ;  he  has  intellectually  suppressed. her,  and  is  painfully 
surprised  when  she  finally  revolts  against  the  domestic  tyrant 
who  has  extinguished  her  mental  light  (p.  14).  'My  wife,  who 
all  her  life  long  has  shared  my  opinions  and  concurred  in  my 
views  both  in  great  things  and  small,  is  actually  inclined  to 
side  with  the  children  on  many  points.  And  she  blames  me 
for  what  has  happened.  She  says  I  tyrannize  over  the  children. 
As  if  it  weren't  necessary  to.  Well,  you  see  how  my  house  is 
divided  against  itself.  But,  of  course,  I  say  as  little  about  it 
as  possible.     It's  best  to  keep  such  things  quiet.' 

Upon  this  point  also  there  may  be  complete  agreement. 
Most  assuredly  should  marriage  be  not  merely  a  union  of 
bodies,  but  also  a  community  of  minds  ;  most  assuredly  should 


378  DEGENERATION 

the  man  help  and  educate  the  wife  intellectually,  although  it 
is  to  be  remarked  that  this  I'ole  of  teacher  and  guardian  assigned 
with  justice  by  Ibsen  to  the  man,  decisively  excludes  the  full 
intellectual  equality  of  the  two  married  parties  equally  claimed 
by  him.  But  how  can  one  reconcile  with  these  notions  about 
the  true  relation  between  the  man  and  his  wife  Nora's  words  to 
her  husband  {A  Doll's  House,  p.  in):  'I  must  first  try  to 
educate  myself.  In  that  you  are  not  the  man  to  help  me.  I 
must  set  to  work  alone.  And  that  is  why  I  am  going  away 
from  you  now.  ...  I  must  be  thrown  entirely  upon  myself  .-* 
We  rub  our  eyes  and  ask  ourselves  if  we  have  read  aright. 
What,  then,  is  the  duty  of  the  husband  in  '  true  marriage  ' .? 
Shall  he  help  his  wife  intellectually .''  Wangel,  Mrs.  Ber- 
nick,  Lona,  Mrs.  Kroll,  say  so.  But  Nora  furiously  denies  it, 
and  repels  all  assistance.  Fard  da  se  !  She  will  educate  and 
form  herself.  As  though  this  contradiction  were  not  already  suffi- 
ciently bewildering,  Ibsen  still  further  mocks  those  pitiable  souls, 
who  would  fain  obtain  rules  of  morality  from  him,  when,  in  The 
Wild  Duck,  he  derides,  as  he  is  wont,  all  that  he  has  preached 
on  the  subject  of  *  true  marriage  '  in  all  the  rest  of  his  pieces. 
In  that  production  a  delicious  dialogue  is  brought  about  be- 
tween the  malevolent  idiot  Gregers  and  the  scofi"er  Relling 
(p.  337)  : 

Gregers.  [I  want]  to  lay  the  foundations  of  a  true  marriage. 

Relling.  So  you  don't  find  Ekdal's  marriage  good  enough  as  it  is  "i 

Gregers.  No  doubt  it's  as  good  a  marriage  as  most  others,  worse  luck. 
But  a  true  marriage  it  has  never  been. 

HjALMAR.  You  have  never  had  eyes  for  the  claims  of  the  ideal,  Relling. 

Reeling.  All  rubbish,  my  boy  !  But,  excuse  me,  Mr.  Werle,  how  many 
.  .  .  true  marriages  have  you  seen  in  the  course  of  your  life? 

Gregers.  Scarcely  a  single  one. 

Relling.  Mor  I,  either. 

And  still  more  incisive  is  the  mockery  contained  in  Hjalmar 's 
words  (p.  345) :  'Well,  then,  isn't  it  exasperating  to  think  that  it's 
not  I, but  he  (Werle,  senior),  who  will  realize  the  true  marriage? 
.  .  .  Isn't  the  marriage  between  your  father  and  Mrs.  Soerby 
founded  upon  complete  confidence,  upon  entire  and  unreserved 
candour  on  both  sides?  They  hide  nothing  from  each  other. 
Their  relation  is  based,  if  I  may  put  it  so'  (!)  *  on  mutual  con- 
fession and  absolution.'  Hence  no  one  has  yet  seen  a  'true 
marriage  ' ;  and  when  by  chance  this  miracle  does  happen  it  is 
fulfilled  in  the  case  of  Mr.  Werle  and  Mrs.  Scerby  —  Mr. 
Werle,  who  confesses  to  his  wife  that  he  has  seduced  young 
girls  and  sent  old  friends  to  prison  in  his  place — Mrs.  Soerby, 
who  confides  to  her  husband  that  she  has  had  illicit  relations 
with  every  imaginable  sort  of  man.  It  is  a  tame  imitation  of 
the  scene  in  Ruskolnikow  by  Dostojewski,  where  the  assassin 
and  the  prostitute,  after  a  contrite  confession,  unite  their  soiled 


EGO-MANIA  379 

and  broken  lives  ;  except  that  in  Ibsen  the  scene  is  stripped  of 
its  sombre  grandeur  and  lowered  to  the  ridiculous  and  vulgar. 

With  Ibsen,  when  women  discover  that  they  are  not  living  in 
*true  marriage,'  their  husband  suddenly  becomes  *a  strange 
man,'  and,  without  further  ceremony,  they  abandon  their  home 
and  their  children,  some,  like  Nora,  '  to  return  to  their  birth- 
place,* where  '  it  will  be  easier  for  me  to  get  something  to 
do  of  one  sort  or  another' ;  others,  like  Ellida,  without  giving  a 
thought  to  what  will  become  of  them  ;  others,  again,  like  Mrs. 
Alving  and  Hedda  Gabler,  to  rush  full  speed  to  a  lover  and 
throw  themselves  on  his  neck.  Ibsen  has  even  deliciously  paro- 
died this  last  departure,  and  in  a  doubly  grotesque  fashion,  for 
he  assigns  the  laughable  role  of  the  tragic  runaway  to  a  man. 
*  I  must  out  into  the  snow  and  tempest,'  declaims  Hjalmar 
[The  Wild  Duck,  p.  i66),  'and  seek  from  house  to  house  a 
shelter  for  my  old  father  and  myself.'  And  he  really  goes,  but 
naturally  only  to  return  home  the  next  day,  crestfallen,  but 
stout-hearted,  to  breakfast.  Truly  nothing  more  need  be  said 
against  the  idiocy  of  Nora's  high-flown  leave-taking,  which  has 
become  the  gospel  for  the  hysterical  of  both  sexes,  since  Ibsen 
spared  us  this  trouble  in  creating  his  Hjalmar. 

We  have  not  yet  done  with  Ibsen's  drivel  on  the  subject  of 
marriage.  He  seems  to  exact  that  no  girl  should  marry  before 
she  is  fully  matured,  and  possesses  an  experience  of  life  and  a 
knowledge  of  the  world  and  of  men  {A  Doll's  House,  p.  in)  : 

Nora.  And  I — how  have  I  been  prepared  to  educate  the  children  ?  .  .  . 
For  that  task  1  am  not  ready.  ...  I  must  first  try  to  educate  myself.  ...  I 
cannot  be  satisfied  any  longer  with  what  most  people  say,  and  with  what  is 
in  books. 

Helmer.  Yoii  don't  understand  the  society  in  which  you  live. 

Nora.  No,  no  more  I  do.     But  now  I  will  set  to  work  and  learn  it. 

This  necessary  maturity  the  young  girl  best  acquires  by  going 
in  quest  of  adventures,  by  becoming  closely  acquainted  with  the 
largest  possible  number  of  persons,  to  make  a  trial,  if  possible, 
of  a  few  men  before  binding  herself  definitely.  A  young  girl  is 
thoroughly  prepared  for  marriage  when  she  has  attained  to  a 
respectable  age,  managed  a  few  households,  perhaps  also  given 
birth  to  sundry  children,  and  in  this  way  proved  to  herself  and 
others  that  she  understands  the  duties  of  a  housewife  and  a 
mother.  Ibsen  does  not  expressly  say  this,  but  it  is  the  only 
reasonable  conclusion  which  can  be  deduced  from  the  whole 
series  of  his  plays.  The  great  reformer  has  no  suspicion  that  he 
is  here  preaching  something  long  ago  tried  by  mankind  and 
rejected  as  unsuitable,  or  not  more  suitable.  Experimental 
marriage  for  a  longer  or  shorter  period,  the  preference  for 
brides  endowed  with  a  rich  experience  in  love-affairs  and 
sundry  children,  all  this  has  already  existed.     Ibsen  may  learn 


38o  DEGENERATION 

all  that  he  needs  on  this  subject  from  his  half-compatriot, 
Professor  Westermarck.*  But  he  would  be  no  degenerate  if  he 
did  not  regard  as  progress  the  return  to  conditions  of  the  most 
primitive  character  long  since  gone  by,  and  if  he  did  not 
mistake  the  far-away  past  for  the  future. 

Let  us  recapitulate  his  marriage-canon  as  gained  from  his 
dramas.  There  should  be  no  marriage  from  interest  (Hedda, 
Mrs.  Alving,  Bernick,  etc.).  There  should  be  no  marriage  from 
love  (Nora,  Wangel).  A  marriage  of  prudence  is  not  a  true 
marriage.  But  to  marry  because  each  pleases  the  other  is 
equally  good  for  nothing.  To  enter  into  matrimony  with  the 
full  approbation  of  reason,  there  should  be  first  of  all  a  thorough 
knowledge  of  each  other  by  the  contracting  parties  (EUida). 
The  man  should  be  the  woman's  instructor  and  educator 
(Wangel,  Bernick).  The  wife  should  not  allow  herself  to  be 
instructed  and  educated  by  the  husband,  but  acquire  the  neces- 
sary knowledge  quite  alone  (Nora).  If  the  wife  discovers  that 
her  marriage  is  not  a  '  true  marriage,'  she  leaves  the  husband, 
for  he  is  a  stranger  (Nora,  Ellida).  She  also  abandons  her 
children,  for  children  which  she  has  had  by  a  stranger  are 
naturally  strangers  also.  She  must,  however,  at  the  same  time 
remain  with  the  husband,  and  endeavour  to  transform  him  from 
a  stranger  into  her  own  husband  (Mrs.  Bernick).  Marriage  is 
not  intended  permanently  to  unite  two  beings.  When  anything 
in  the  one  is  not  agreeable  to  the  other,  they  return  the  ring 
and  go  their  respective  ways  (Nora,  Mr.  Alving,  Ellida,  Mrs. 
Elvsted).  If  a  man  abandons  his  wife  he  commits  a  heinous 
crime  (Bernick,  Werle).  And,  to  sum  up,  there  is  no  true 
marriage  (Relling).  This  is  Ibsen's  doctrine  concerning  marriage. 
It  leaves  nothing  to  be  desired  in  the  matter  of  clearness.  It 
amply  suffices  for  the  diagnosis  of  the  state  of  the  Norwegian 
poet's  intellect. 

Independently  of  his  religious  obsessions  and  his  bewildering 
contradictions,  Ibsen's  mysticism  reveals  itself,  step  by  step,  in 
absurdities  of  which  a  healthy  intellect  would  be  incapable. 
We  have  seen  in  The  Lady  from  the  Sea  that  Ellida  wishes  to 
abandon  her  husband,  because  her  marriage  is  not  a  true  one, 
and  because  her  husband  has  become  a  stranger  to  her.  Why 
is  he  a  stranger  to  her  ?  Because  he  has  married  her  without 
mutual  close  acquaintance.  '  You  had  only  seen  me  and  spoken 
a  few  words  to  me.'  She  ought  not  to  have  let  herself  be  pro- 
vided for.  '  Rather  the  meanest  labour,  rather  the  most  wretched 
surroundings,  so  long  as  they  were  the  result  of  free  will,  of  free 
choice.'  From  this  one  can  only  reasonably  conclude  that 
Ellida  is  of  the  opinion  no  true  marriage  is  possible,  unless  the 

*  Edward  Westermarck,  The  History  of  Human  Marriage.  London  : 
Macmillan,  1892.  See  especially  the  two  chapters  on  'The  Forms  ol 
Human  Marriage,'  and  '  The  Duration  of  Marriage.' 


EGO-MANIA  381 

woman  possesses  a  thorough  knowledge  of  her  suitor  and  has 
had  full  freedom  in  her  choice.  She  is  convinced  that  these 
conditions  existed  in  the  case  of  the  first  claimant  for  her  hand. 
'The  first — that  might  have  been  a  complete  and  real  marriage.' 
Now,  the  same  Ellida,  a  few  pages  before  (78),  says  that  she 
knew  absolutely  nothing  concerning  her  lover  ;  she  did  not  even 
know  his  name,  and,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  he  is  spoken  of 
throughout  the  piece  only  as  '  the  stranger,' 

Wangel.  What  else  do  you  know  about  him  ? 

Ellida.  Only  that  he  went  to  sea  very  young  ;  and  that  he  had  been  on 
long  voyages. 

Wangel.  Is  there  nothing  more? 
Ellida.  No  ;  we  never  spoke  of  such  things. 
Wangel.  Of  what  did  you  speak,  then  ? 
Ellida.  About  the  sea  ! 

And  she  betrothed  herself  to  him 

Because  he  said  I  must. 

Wangel.  You  must  ?     Had  you  no  will  of  your  own,  then  ? 

Ellida.  Not  when  he  was  near. 

So,  then,  Ellida  is  forced  to  abandon  Wangel  for  the  reason 
that,  previously  to  her  marriage  with  him,  she  did  not  thoroughly 
know  him,  and  she  must  go  to  '  the  stranger,'  of  whom  she 
knows  nothing.  Her  marriage  with  Wangel  is  no  marriage, 
because  she  did  not  enter  into  it  with  perfect  freedom  of  will, 
but  the  marriage  with  'the  stranger  '  will  be  '  perfect  and  pure,' 
although  when  she  betrothed  herself  to  him  she  had  '  no  will 
of  her  own.'  After  this  example  of  his  mental  maze,  it  is  truly 
humiliating  to  be  obliged  to  waste  more  words  concerning  the 
intellectual  state  of  such  a  man.  But  since  this  man  is  foisted 
by  fools  and  fanatics  to  the  rank  of  a  great  moralist  and  poet 
of  the  future,  the  psychiatrical  observer  must  not  spare  himself 
the  labour  of  referring  to  his  other  absurdities. 

In  this  same  Lady  from  the  Sea,  Ellida  renounces  her  project 
of  leaving  her  husband  Wangel,  and  going  away  with  the 
'  stranger,'  as  soon  as  Wangel  says  *  with  aching  heart ' :  '  Now 
you  can  choose  your  own  path  in  perfect  freedom.'  She  remains 
with  Wangel.  She  chooses  him.  '  Whence  came  the  change  ?' 
asks  Wangel  and  the  reader  with  him.  '  Ah,  don't  you  under- 
stand,' Ellida  gushingly  replies,  '  that  the  change  came — was 
bound  to  come — when  I  could  choose  in  freedom!'  (p.  141). 
This  second  choice,  then,  is  intended  to  form  a  complete  con- 
trast to  the  first,  in  which  Ellida  plighted  her  troth  to  Wangel. 
But  all  the  conditions,  without  a  single  exception,  have  remained 
the  same.  Ellida  is  now  free  because  Wangel  expressly  gives 
her  her  freedom ;  but  she  was  still  freer  on  the  first  occasion, 
because' Wangel  had  as  yet  no  rights  over  her,  and  did  not 
need  to  begin  by  setting  her  free.  As  little  was  external 
coercion  exercised  on  her  at  the  betrothal  as  subsequently  after 


382  DEGENERATION 

marriage.  Her  resolution  depended  then,  as  now,  entirely  on 
herself.  If  at  the  betrothal  she  felt  herself  fettered,  it  was,  as 
she  herself  explains,  because  she  was  at  that  time  poor,  and 
allowed  herself  to  be  enticed  by  the  alluring  prospect  of  being 
provided  for.  But  in  this  respect  nothing  has  changed.  She 
has  come  into  no  property  since  her  marriage,  so  far  as  we  know 
from  Ibsen.  She  is  just  as  poor  as  she  ever  was.  If  she  quits 
Wangel,  she  will  sink  once  more  into  the  penury  she  found 
insupportable  when  a  young  girl.  If  she  remains  with  him, 
she  is  quite  as  much  provided  for  as  she  hoped  to  be  when  she 
betrothed  herself  to  him.  Wherein,  then,  lies  the  contrast 
between  her  former  want  of  liberty  and  her  present  freedom  to 
explain  the  change?  There  is  none.  It  exists  in  the  confused 
thought  of  Ibsen  alone.  If  the  whole  of  this  piratical  story 
about  Ellida,  Wangel,  and  the  stranger  is  intended  to  mean,  or 
to  prove,  anything,  it  can  only  be  that  a  woman  must  first  live 
a  few  years  with  her  husband  on  trial  before  she  can  bind  herself 
definitively  ;  and  that  her  decision  may  be  valid,  she  is  to  be 
free  at  the  end  of  the  period  of  probation  to  go  or  to  stay. 
The  only  meaning  of  the  piece  is,  therefore,  pure  idiocy — 
experimental  marriage. 

We  find  the  same  absurdity  repeated,  in  the  fundamental 
idea,  in  the  premises  and  deductions  of  nearly  all  his  plays. 
In  Ghosts  Oswald  Alving's  disease  is  represented  as  a  chastise- 
ment for  the  sins  of  his  father,  and  for  the  moral  weakness  of 
his  mother  in  marrying  for  self-interest  a  man  she  did  not  love. 
Now,  Oswald's  state  is  the  consequence  of  a  complaint  which 
may  be  contracted  without  any  depravity  whatsoever.  It  is  a 
silly  antiquated  idea  of  the  bigoted  members  of  societies  for 
the  suppression  of  immorality  that  a  contagious  disease  is  the 
consequence  and  punishment  of  licentiousness.  Doctors  know 
better  than  that.  They  know  hundreds — nay,  thousands — of 
cases  where  a  young  man  is  infected  for  his  whole  life,  for  no 
other  act  than  one  which,  with  the  views  now  prevailing,  is 
looked  upon  as  venial.  Even  holy  matrimony  is  no  protection 
against  such  a  misfortune,  to  say  nothing  of  the  cases  where 
doctors,  nurses,  etc.,  have  contracted  the  malady  in  the  discharge 
of  their  duties,  and  without  carnal  transgression.  Ibsen's 
drivel  proves  nothing  of  that  which,  according  to  him,  it 
should  prove.  Chamberlain  Alving  might  be  a  monster  of 
immorality  without  for  that  reason  falling  ill,  or  having  an 
insane  son  ;  and  his  son  could  be  insane  without  more  culpability 
on  the  part  of  the  father  than  is  the  case  with  all  men  who 
have  been  unchaste  before  marriage.  Ibsen,  however,  givej 
obtrusive  evidence  of  having  had  no  wish  to  write  a  tract  in 
praise  of  continence,  by  making  Mrs.  Alving  throw  herself  into 
the  arms  of  Pastor  Manders,  and  by  making  the   mother  the 


EGO-MANIA  583 

intermediary  of  an  illicit  union  out  of  wedlock  between  the 
son  and  his  own  sister,  putting-,  moreover,  into  the  mouth  of 
Oswald  a  panegyric  on  concubinage — one  of  the  most  incredible 
things  met  witli  in  the  incredible  Ibsen.  '  What  are  they  to 
do  ?'  replies  Oswald  Alving  to  the  horrified  pastor.  '  A  poor 
young  artist — a  poor  young  girl.  It  costs  a  lot  of  money  to 
get  married/  I  can  only  suppose  that  the  innocent  Norwegian 
villager  has  never  with  his  own  bodily  eyes  seen  a  '  free  union,' 
and  that  he  has  drawn  his  idea  of  one  from  the  depths  of  a 
nature  filled  with  anarchistic  rage  against  the  existing  order 
of  things.  An  inhabitant  of  any  large  town,  having  daily 
opportunities  for  getting  insight  into  dozens  and  hundreds  of 
free  unions,  will  burst  into  hearty  laughter  over  Ibsen's  infantine 
fantasies,  worthy  of  a  lascivious  schoolboy.  In  no  country  in 
the  world  does  civil  marriage  cost  more  than  a  trifling  sum, 
very  much  less  than  the  first  repast  offered  by  a  young  fellow 
to  the  girl  he  has  persuaded  to  live  with  him  ;  and  religious 
marriage,  far  from  costing  anything,  brings  to  the  bridal  couple 
a  donation  in  money,  clothes,  and  household  articles,  if  they 
are  indelicate  enough  to  accept  them.  Pious  societies,  which 
expend  large  sums  of  money  in  legalizing  free  unions,  exist 
everywhere.  When  persons  form  unions  without  the  aid  of 
the  civil  law  or  of  priests,  it  is  probably  never  for  the  purpose 
of  saving  the  expense  of  marriage,  but  either  from  culpable 
levity,  or  because  either  one  or  other  of  them  makes  a  mental 
reservation  not  to  bind  him  or  herself,  but  to  enjoy  something 
agreeable  without  undertaking  any  serious  duties  ;  or,  finally, 
in  the  few  cases  which  a  moral  man  may  approve,  or,  at  least, 
excuse,  because  on  one  side  or  the  other  there  exists  some 
legal  obstacle  above  which  they  raise  themselves,  strong  in  love, 
and  justified  in  their  own  eyes  by  the  earnestness  of  their 
intention  to  be  faithful  to  each  other  unto  death. 

But  to  return  from  this  subordinate  absurdity  to  the  capital 
absurdity  of  the  piece.  Chamberlain  Alving  is  punished  for 
his  illicit  indulgence  in  carnal  pleasure,  in  his  own  body,  and 
in  his  children  Oswald  and  Regina.  That  is  very  edifying, 
and  would,  doubtless,  meet  with  approbation  at  a  conference 
of  clergymen,  although  nonsensical  and  inaccurate  to  the  highest 
degree.  We  will  only  mention  in  passing  that  Ibsen  constantly 
recommends  and  glorifies  unchastity,  the  'living  out  one's  life.' 
But  what  inference  does  Mrs.  Alving  draw  from  the  case  of 
her  husband  ?  That  all  should  remain  chaste  and  pure,  an 
idea  worked  out  by  Bjornson  in  his  Glove  f  No.  She  is  led 
by  it  to  the  conclusion  that  the  existing  order  of  morals  and 
the  law  are  bad.  *  Oh,  that  perpetual  law  and  order  1'  she 
exclaims  (p.  154)  ;  *  I  often  think  it  is  that  which  does  all  the 
mischief  here  in  the  world.  ...    I  can  endure  all  this  constraint 


354  DEGENERATION 

and  cowardice  no  longer.  It  is  too  much  for  me.  I  must  work 
my  way  out  to  freedom.'  What  in  the  world  has  Alving's 
story  to  do  with  Maw  and  order?'  and  how  does  'freedom' 
enter  into  this  Credo  ?  What  connection  with  the  piece  have 
the  silly  speeches  of  this  woman,  unless  it  be  that  they  are 
lugged  in  to  tickle  the  radical  patrons  of  the  gallery  into 
applause.  In  Tahiti  neither  '  order  '  nor  *  morals  '  reign  in  the 
sense  given  them  by  Mrs.  Alving.  There  the  brown  beauties 
have  all  the  '  freedom '  to  which  Mrs.  Alving  wishes  to  '  work 
her  way  out,'  and  the  men  so  '  live  out  their  lives '  that  ships' 
officers,  not  otherwise  modest,  avert  their  eyes  with  shame. 
And  in  that  very  region  Chamberlain  Alving's  disease  is  so 
widespread  that,  according  to  Ibsen's  medical  theory,  all  the 
young  Tahitians  must  be  Oswalds. 

But  this  is  a  constant  habit  of  Ibsen's,  evidenced  in  all  his 
pieces.  He  puts  into  the  mouth  of  his  characters  phrases  used 
for  effect  by  orators  in  popular  meetings  of  the  lowest  class, 
having  nothing  in  the  least  to  do  with  the  piece.  '  I  don't  know 
what  religion  is,'  Nora  says  in  the  well-known  scene  where  she 
leaves  her  husband  (p.  1 14).  ' .  .  .  I  know  nothing  but  what 
our  clergyman  told  me  when  I  was  confirmed.  He  explained 
that  religion  was  this  and  that.  When  I  have  got  quite  away 
from  here  and  am  all  by  myself,  then  I  will  examine  that  matter 
too.  I  will  see  whether  what  our  clergyman  taught  is  true.  .  .  . 
I  have  now  learnt,  too,  that  the  laws  are  different  from  what  I 
thought  they  were  ;  but  I  can't  convince  myself  that  they  are 
right.'  Now  her  case  has  no  relation  to  the  religious  doctrine  of 
Pastor  Hansen  and  the  excellence  or  badness  of  the  laws.  No 
law  in  the  world  concedes  the  right  to  a  child  to  sign  her 
father's  name  to  a  cheque  without  his  knowledge,  and  all  the 
laws  of  the  world  not  only  permit  but  compel  a  judge  to  inquire 
into  the  motives  of  every  misdemeanour,  although  Ibsen  makes 
Krogstad  the  mouthpiece  of  this  idiocy  (p.  39)  :  *  The  laws  in- 
quire little  into  motives.'  The  whole  of  this  scene,  in  view  of 
which,  however,  the  piece  was  written,  is  foreign  to  the  play, 
and  does  not  originally  spring  from  it.  If  Nora  wishes  to 
abandon  her  husband,  it  can  only  be  on  the  supposition  that 
she  has  discovered  he  does  not  love  her  so  devotedly  as  she 
had  wished  and  hoped.  The  hysterical  fool,  however,  utters  an 
inflammatory  diatribe  against  religion,  law,  and  society  (which 
are  profoundly  innocent  of  the  weakness  of  character  and 
absence  of  love  in  her  husband),  and  departs  like  a  feminine 
Coriolanus  shaking  her  fist  at  her  fatherland.  In  The  Pillars  of 
Society  Bernick,  wishing  to  confess  his  own  baseness,  introduces 
his  avowal  with  the  words  (p.  no):  'Let  everyone  examine 
himself,  and  let  us  realize  the  prediction  that  from  this  evening 
we  begin  a  new  time.     The  old,  with  its  tinsel,  its  hypocrisy,  its 


EGO-MANIA  385 

hollowness,  its  lying  propriety,  and  its  pitiful  cowardice,  shall 
lie  behind  us  like  a  museum,'  etc.  '  Speak  for  yourself,  Bernick, 
speak  for  yourself,'  one  might  well  call  out  to  the  old  wind-bag, 
who  in  this  sermonizing  toqe  thus  generalizes  his  own  individual 
case.  *  I  wish  to  speak  of  the  great  discovery  that  I  have  made 
within  the  last  few  days,'  exclaims  Stockmann  in  An  Enemy  of 
the  People, '  the  discovery  that  all  our  spiritual  sources  of  life  are 
poisoned,  and  that  our  whole  bourgeois  society  rests  upon  a  soil 
teeming  with  the  pestilence  of  lies.'  That  may  in  itself  be  true  ; 
but  nothing  in  the  piece  gives  Stockmann  the  right  to  arrive 
reasonably  at  this  conclusion.  Even  in  Plato's  republic  it  might 
happen  that  a  ragamuffin,  more  foolish  for  that  matter  than  wicked, 
should  refuse  to  cleanse  an  infected  spring,  and  only  a  fool  could 
deduce  from  this  single  fact,  and  from  the  conduct  of  a  clique  of 
Philistines  in  an  impossible  Norwegian  village,  the  general  propo- 
sition that'  our  whole  bourgeois  society  rests  upon  a  soil  teeming 
with  the  pestilence  of  lies.'  In  RosmersJwhn,  Brendel  says  in  an 
obscurely  profound  prophetic  tone,  which  shudders  with  fore- 
boding (p.  23)  :  '  We  live  in  a  tempestuous,  an  equinoctial  age.' 
This  expression  also,  true  enough  in  itself,  strikes  one  like  a  blow 
in  the  eye  in  the  place  where  it  occurs,  for  Rosjnersholm  has  no  con- 
nection with  any  definite  period  of  time ;  and  it  is  not  necessary 
to  change  a  single  essential  word  in  the  piece,  in  order  to 
transport  it  at  pleasure  to  the  Middle  Ages,  or  the  age  of  the 
Roman  emperors,  to  China,  or  the  land  of  the  Incas — to  any  age 
or  any  land  where  there  are  hysterical  women  and  idiotic  men. 

We  are  familiar  with  the  method  pursued  by  brawlers  who 
wish  to  pick  a  quarrel  :  '  Sir,  why  did  you  look  at  me  in  that 
way?'  *  Pardon  me,  I  did  not  look  at  you.'  'What!  you  say, 
then,  that  I  lie?'  'I  said  nothing  of  the  sort'  'You  give  me 
the  lie  a  second  time.  You  must  give  me  satisfaction.'  This  is 
Ibsen's  method.  What  he  wishes  is  to  denounce  society,  the 
state,  religion,  law,  and  morals  in  anarchistic  phrases.  Instead, 
however,  of  publishing  them  like  Nietzsche,  in  brochures,  he 
sticks  them  into  his  pieces  at  haphazard,  where  they  appear  as 
unexpectedly  as  the  couplets  sung  in  the  naive  farces  of  our 
fathers.  Cleanse  Ibsen's  dramas  of  these  pasted-on  phrases, 
and  even  a  Brandes  will  no  longer  be  able  to  trumpet  them  as 
'  modern '  productions ;  there  will  remain  only  a  tissue  of 
absurdities,  belonging  to  no  time  or  place,  in  which  here  and 
there  emerge  single  poetically  fine  scenes  and  accessory  figures, 
not  changing  in  the  least  the  atrociousness  of  the  whole.  In 
fact,  Ibsen  always  begins  by  finding  some  thesis — i.e.,  some 
anarchist  phrase.  Then  he  tries  to  find  out  beings  and  events 
which  embody  and  prove  his  thesis,  for  which  task,  however, 
his  poetical  power,  and,  above  all,  his  knowledge  of  life  and 
men,  are  insufficient.  For  he  goes  through  the  world  without 
25 


386  DEGENERATION 

seeing  it,  and  his  glance  is  always  turned  inward  on  himself. 
In  contradiction  to  the  saying  of  the  poet,  'All  that  is  human  is 
alien  to  him,'  and  his  own  *  I '  alone  occupies  him  and  absorbs 
his  attention.  He  himself  proclaims  this  in  a  well-known  poem 
wherein  he  says,  *  Life  is  a  battle  with  the  ghost  in  the  vaults  of 
the  heart  and  brain.  To  be  a  poet  is  to  hold  judgment  day 
over  one's  own  self* 

The  '  ghost  in  the  heart  and  brain  '  is  the  obsessions  and 
impulses  in  conflict  with  which  the  life  of  the  higher  degenerate 
is  certainly  spent.  It  is  as  clear  as  day  that  a  poem,  which  is 
nothing  but  a  'judgment  day'  of  the  poet  over  himself,  cannot 
be  a  mirror  of  universal  human  life,  freely  and  broadly  flowing,  but 
simply  the  intricate  arabesques  adorning  the  walls  of  a  distorted, 
isolated  existence.  He  sees  the  image  of  the  world  with  the 
eye  of  an  insect ;  a  diminutive  single  feature  which  shows  itself 
to  one  of  the  polished  facets  of  such  a  discoidal  eye,  and  which 
he  perchance  perceives,  he  firmly  seizes,  and  renders  with  dis- 
tinctness. But  he  does  not  comprehend  its  connection  with  the 
whole  phenomenon,  and  his  organ  of  vision  is  not  able  to  span 
a  large  comprehensive  picture.  This  explains  the  fidelity  to 
nature  in  petty  details  and  quite  accessory  figures,  while  the 
chief  events  and  central  characters  are  always  astonishingly 
absurd  and  alien  to  all  the  realities  of  the  world. 

It  is  in  Braitd  that  Ibsen's  absurdity  apparently  achieves  its 
greatest  triumph.  Northern  critics  have  reiterated  ad  nauseam 
that  this  silly  piece  is  a  dramatic  translation  of  Kierkegaard's 
crazy  '  Either-Or.'  Ibsen  shows  a  fool  who  wishes  to  be  '  all 
or  nothing,'  and  who  preaches  the  same  to  his  fellow-citizens. 
What  he  especially  understands  by  these  high-sounding  words 
the  piece  nowhere  reveals  by  a  single  syllable.  Brand,  how- 
ever, succeeds  in  infecting  his  fellow-citizens  with  his  madness, 
and  one  fine  day  they  sally  forth  from  the  village  and  are  led 
by  him  into  impassable  mountain  solitudes.  What  his  purpose 
is  no  one  knows  or  suspects.  The  sexton,  who  seems  to  be 
somewhat  less  crazy  than  the  others,  finally  becomes  uneasy 
concerning  this  wholly  senseless  mountain  climbing,  and  asks 
whither  Brand  is  really  leading  them,  and  what  may  be  the 
object  of  this  scramble.  Whereupon  Brand  gives  him  the 
following  wonderful  information  (p.  151):  'How  long  will  the 
struggle  last  ?'  (viz.,  the  climbing,  for  there  is  no  other  struggle 
in  this  Act).  *  It  lasts  until  life's  end.  Until  you  have  sacri- 
ficed all;  until  you  are  freed  from  your  compact;  until  that 
which  you  may  wish  for  you  shall  wish  for  unswervingly.'    (What 

♦  *  At  leve — er  Kamp  med  Trolde 

J  Hjertet  og  Hjernens  Hvaelv  ; 
At  digte — det  er  at  holde 
Dommedag  over  sig  selv.' 


EGO-MANIA  387 

this  is  which  is  to  be  wished  for  is  not  explained.)  *  Until 
every  doubt  shall  have  vanished  and  nothing  separates  you  from 
the  All  or  Nothing.  And  your  sacrifices  ?  All  the  gods  which 
with  you  take  the  place  of  the  eternal  God  ;  the  shining  golden 
chains  of  slavery,  together  with  the  beds  of  your  languid  sloth- 
fulness.  The  reward  of  victory  ?  Unity  of  will,  activity  of 
faith,  pureness  of  soul.'  Naturally  on  listening  to  this  ranting 
the  good  people  '  come  to  their  senses  and  go  home,'  but  the 
lunatic  Brand  is  offended  because  his  fellow-citizens  do  not  want 
to  pant  uphill  in  order  to  '  wish  for  something  unswervingly,'  to 
attain  to  '  all  or  nothing,'  and  to  arrive  at '  unity  of  will,'  For  it 
is  '  the  all '  which  seems  to  inhabit  mountains  ;  not  merely 
freedom,  which  an  early  poet  sought  for  there.  ('  Liberty  dwells 
in  the  mountains,'  Schiller  has  said.) 

And  yet  Brand  is  a  remarkable  figure.  In  him  Ibsen  has 
unconsciously  created  a  very  instructive  type  of  those  deranged 
beings  who  run,  speak,  and  act  at  the  bidding  of  a  ruling 
impulse,*  who  with  furious  passion  are  continually  and  reiterat- 
ingly  talking  of  '  the  goal '  which  they  wish  to  attain,  but  who 
neither  themselves  have  a  suspicion  of  what  this  goal  really  is, 
nor  are  in  a  position  to  indicate  it  to  others  in  an  intelligible 
way.  Brand  thinks  the  power  which  impels  him  is  his  in- 
flexible iron  will.  It  is  in  reality  his  inflexible  iron  impulsion 
which  his  consciousness  in  vain  seeks  to  grasp  and  to  interpret 
by  the  aid  of  a  flood  of  unintelligible  words. 

Ibsen's  absurdity  is  not  always  so  clearly  apparent  as  in  the 
examples  cited.  It  frequently  manifests  itself  in  a  blurred  and 
indefinite  phrase,  plainly  expressing  the  state  of  a  mind  which 
endeavours  to  formulate  in  words  a  nebulous  representation 
springing  up  in  it,  but  which  lacks  the  necessary  power  and 
loses  itself  in  mechanical  mutterings  void  of  sense.  There  are 
three  sorts  of  phrases  of  this  kind  to  be  distinguished  in  Ibsen. 
One  kind  say  absolutely  nothing,  and  contain  no  more  of  an 
idea  than  the  'tra-la-la'  sung  to  a  song  of  which  one  has  for- 
gotten the  words.  They  are  a  symptom  of.  a  temporary  arrest 
of  function  t  in  the  cerebral  centres  of  ideation,  and  appear  in 
healthy  persons  also  in  a  state  of  extreme  fatigue,  under  the 
form  of  incidental  embarrassment,  causing  hesitation  in  speech. 
In  persons  suffering  from  hereditary  exhaustion  they  are  con- 
tinuously present.  Another  kind  affect  an  appearance  of  pro- 
fundity and  significant   allusions,  but  exact  observation   recog- 

*  Dr.  Wilhelm  Griesinc^er,  Patholo^ie  und  Therapie  der  psychischen 
Kraiikheiten  ficr  Aerzte  iind  Studirende.  5teAuflage.  Ganzlich  umgearbeitet 
und  erweitert.  Von  Dr.  Willibald  Levinstein-Schleger  ;  Berlin,  1892.  (See 
p.  143,  on  'Diseased  Impulses';  and  p,  147,  on  'Excessive  Energy  of  Will.') 

f  Griesinger,  op.  cit..,  p.  ^^  :  'Retardation  of  thought  may  be  produced 
...  by  the  state  of  constriction  following  a  mental  depression,  by  complete 
inertia  extending  to  the  arrest  of  thought.' 


388  DEGENERATION 

nises  them  as  an  empty  jingle  of  words  devoid  of  all  import 
Finally,  the  third  kind  are  such  evident  and  unequivocal  idiocy 
that  even  unprofessional  listeners  regard  each  other  in  con- 
sternation, and  would  feel  it  to  be  their  duty  to  give  his  family 
a  gentle  hint  if  they  heard  anything  of  the  kind  from  one  of 
their  table  companions  at  the  habitual  cafe.  I  will  give  some 
illustrations  of  each  of  these  three  kinds  of  phraseology. 

Firstly,  phrases  saying  absolutely  nothing,  interpolated  be- 
tween intelligible  words,  and  indicating  a  temporary  paralysis 
of  the  centres  of  ideation. 

In  The  Lady  from  the  Sea  (p.  25)  Lyngstrand  says:  *I  am 
to  a  certain  extent  a  little  infirm.'  *  This  '  to  a  certain  extent ' 
is  admirable  !  Lyngstrand,  a  sculptor,  is  speaking  of  his  artistic 
projects  (p.  51)  : 

As  soon  as  I  can  set  about  it,  I  am  going  to  try  if  I  can  produce  a  great 
work — a  group,  as  they  call  it. 

Arnholm.  Is  there  anything  else? 

Lyngstrand.  Yes,  there  is  to  be  another  figure — a  sort  of  apparition,  as 
they  say. 

As  Ibsen  makes  Lyngstrand  a  fool,  it  might  be  believed  that 
he  intentionally  put  these  idiotic  turns  of  expression  into  the 
sculptor's  mouth.  But  in  Hedda  Gabler,  Brack,  a  sharp  and 
clever  bon  vivant,  says  (p.  87)  :  '  But  as  far  as  regards  myself, 
you  know  very  well  that  I  have  always  entertained  a — a  certain 
respect  for  the  marriage  tie,  generally  speaking,  Mrs.  Hedda.' 
In  Rosmersholm  Brendel  says  (p.  24) :  '  So  you  see  when  golden 
dreams  descended  and  enwrapped  me  ...  I  fashioned  them 
into  poems,  into  visions,  into  pictures — in  the  rougJi,  as  it  were, 
you  understand.  Oh,  what  pleasures,  what  intoxications  I  have 
enjoyed  in  my  time  !  The  mysterious  bliss  of  creation — in  the 
rough,  as  I  said.'  Rector  KroU  says  (p.  18)  :  *  A  family  that 
now  soon  for  some  centuries  has  held  its  place  as  the  first  in  the 
land.'-f*  '  Now  soon  for  some  centuries'  !  That  means  that  it 
is  not  yet  '  some  centuries,'  but  *  soon'  will  be  '  some  centuries.' 
Hence  '  soon  '  must  include  in  itself  '  some  centuries.'  By  what 
miracle?  In  The  Wild  Duck  we  have  the  intentionally,  but,  in  their 
exaggeration  impossibly,  idiotic  conversations  of  the  '  fat,' '  bald,' 
and  '  short-sighted '  gentlemen  in  the  first  act,  but  also  this 
remark  by  Gina,  who  is  in  no  way  depicted  as  an  idiot  (p.  270)  : 

Are  you  glad  when  you  have  some  good  news  to  tell  father  when  he  comes 
home  in  the  evening  ? 

H  ED  WIG.  Yes,  for  then  we  have  a  pleasanter  time. 
GiNA.  Yes,  there  is  sojnethiftg  [true]^  i^  that !  / 

*  Rationalized  in  the  English  version  cited,  as  follows  (p.  25):  'Yes, 
perhaps  I  am  a  little  delicate.' — Translator. 

t  Rationalized  in  the  English  version  by  |now  soon,'  being  rendered  as 
'nearly.' — Translator. 

X  '  True  '  is  omitted  in  the  English  version  quoted. — Translator. 


EGO-MANIA'  389 

In   the   conversation  about   the   wild    duck  between    Ekdal, 
Gregers  and  Hjalmar  we  read  (p.  289)  : 

Ekdal.  He  was  out  in  a  boat,  you  see^  and  he  shot  her.  But  father's 
sight  is  pretty  bad  now.     H'm  ;  he  only  wounded  her. 

Gregers.  Ah  !  she  got  a  couple  of  shot  in  her  body,  I  suppose. 

Hjalmar.  Yes,  two  or  three.  .  .  . 

Gregers.  And  she  thrives  all  right  in  the  garret  there  ? 

Hjalmar.  Yes,  wonderfully  well.  She's  got  fat.  She's  been  in  there  so 
long  now  that  she's  forgotten  her  natural  wild  life,  and  it  all  depends  on 
that. 

Gregers.   You're  right  there,  Hjalmar. 

And  in  a  dialogue  between  Hedwig  and  Gregers  Werle 
(P-  305) : 

Hedwig.  ...  If  I  had  learnt  basket-making,  I  could  have  made  the  new 
basket  for  the  wild  duck. 

Gregers.  So  you  could ;  and  it  was,  strictly  speaking,  your  business, 
wasn't  it? 

Hedwig.  Yes,  for  she's  my  wild  duck. 

Gregers.  Of  course  she  is  / 

Now  for  some  examples  of  phrases  which  sound  excessively- 
profound,  but  in  reality  express  nothing,  or  mere  foolishness. 

In  A  Doll's  House  (p.  25)  Mrs.  Linden  expresses  the  opinion  : 
*  Well,  after  all,  it  is  better  to  open  the  door  to  the  sick,  and 
get  them  safe  in  ;'  to  which  Rank  significantly  replies  :  '  Yes, 
so  people  say.  And  it  is  that  very  consideration  which  turns 
society  into  a  hospital.'  What  does  this  meditative  and 
oracular  speech  mean  ?  Is  it  Rank's  opinion  that  society  is 
a  hospital  because  it  cares  for  its  sick,  and  that  it  would  be 
healthy  if  its  sick  were  not  cared  for  }  Would  the  untended 
sick  be  any  less  sick  .''  If  he  believes  that  he  believes  an 
idiocy.  Or  are  the  sick  to  be  left  to  die  uncared  for,  and  in 
this  manner  got  rid  of?  If  he  preaches  that,  he  preaches  a 
barbarism  and  a  crime,  and  that  is  not  in  accordance  with 
Rank's  character  as  Ibsen  depicts  him.  We  may  turn  and 
twist  the  vague,  mysterious  words  as  we  will,  we  shall  always 
find  either  stupidity  or  want  of  meaning. 

In  Rosmersholni,  Rosmer  (p.  30)  wishes  to  '  devote  all  his 
life  and  all  his  energies  to  this  one  thing — the  creation  of  a 
true  democracy  in  this  country.'  And,  wonderful  to  relate,  the 
persons  to  whom  Rosmer  says  these  words  all  seem  to  compre- 
hend what  the  'true  democracy'  is.  Without  being  asked, 
Rosmer  offers,  besides,  some  explanation  of  his  Pythian  utter- 
ance :  '  I  want  to  awaken  the  democracy  to  its  true  task — that 
of  making  all  the  people  of  this  country  noblemen  ...  by- 
setting  free  their  minds  and  purifying  their  wills.  ...  I  will  only- 
try  to  arouse  them  to  their  task.  They  themselves  must  ac- 
complish it  ...  by  their  own  strength.  There  is  no  other,  .  .  . 
Peace  and  joy  and  mutual  forbearance  must  once  more  enter 


390 


DEGENERATION 


into   their   souls.'      Rebecca   repeats   to   him    his    programme 
(p.  62)  : 

You  were  to  set  resolutely  to  work  in  the  world — the  living  world  of  to-day, 
as  you  said.  You  were  to  go  as  a  messenger  of  emancipation  from  home  to 
home  ;  to  win  over  minds  and  wills  ;  to  create  noble  men  around  you  in 
wider  and  wider  circles.     Noblemen. 

ROSMER.  Joyful  noblemen. 

Rkbecca.  Yes,  joyful. 

RoSMER.  For  it  is  joy  that  ennobles  the  mind. 

It  is  impossible  to  avoid  calling  up  a  comic  picture  of  Rosmer 
going  'from  home  to  home'  'in  wider  and  wider  circles,'  and 
making  the  persons  before  whom  he  talks  into  'joyful  noble- 
men,' while  he  '  awakens '  them  and  *  purifies  their  wills,'  and 
thus  '  creates  a  true  democracy.'  This  rigmarole  is,  it  is  true, 
incomprehensible  ;  but,  at  all  events,  it  must  be  something 
agreeable,  for  Rosmer  expressly  says  that  he  needs  'joy' to 
create  '  noblemen.'  And  in  spite  of  this  Rebecca  suddenly 
discovers  (p.  102)  :  *  The  Rosmer  view  of  life  ennobles,  but  it 
kills  happiness.'  What !  Rosmer  kill  happiness  when  he  '  goes 
from  home  to  home,'  awakening,  winning,  making  people  free, 
etc.,  and  creating  joyful  noblemen  ?  The  word  'joyful '  includes, 
at  least,  something  of  happiness,  and  yet  the  education  of  men 
to  'joyful  noblemen  '  is  to  kill  happiness  .<*  Rosmer  finds  (p.  97) 
'  the  work  of  ennobling  men's  minds  is  not  for  him.  And, 
besides,  it  is  so  hopeless  in  itself.'  This  is  in  a  measure 
intelligible,  though  it  is  not  stated  from  what  experience 
Rosmer  has  been  led  to  such  a  change  in  his  views.  But  quite 
beyond  comprehension  is  Rebecca's  speech  about  the  fatal 
influence  of  '  the  Rosmer  view  of  life.'  In  Ghosts,  Mrs.  Alving 
endeavours  to  explain  her  defunct  husband's  vagaries  in  this 
balderdash  (p.  187):  'When  he  was  a  young  lieutenant,  he 
was  brimming  over  with  the  joy  of  life.  It  was  like  a  breezy 
day  only  to  look  at  him.  And  what  exuberant  strength  and 
vitality  there  was  in  him  !  And  then,  child  of  joy  as  he  was — 
for  he  was  like  a  child  at  the  time — he  had  to  live  here  at 
home  in  a  half-grown  town,  which  had  no  joys  to  offer  him, 
but  only  amusements.  He  had  no  object  in  life,  but  only  an 
office.  He  had  no  work  into  which  he  could  throw  himself 
heart  and  soul  ;  he  had  only  business.  He  had  not  a  single 
comrade  that  knew  what  the  joy  of  life  meant,  only  loungers 
and  boon  companions.'  These  antitheses  seem  to  have  some- 
thing in  them  ;  but  if  we  seriously  set  about  hunting  for  a 
definite  idea  in  them,  they  vanish  in  smoke.  'Object  in  life — • 
office  ' — *  work — business  ' — '  comrades — boon  companions,'  are 
not  in  themselves  oppositions,  but  become  such  through  the 
individual.  With  a  decent  man  they  are  perfectly  coincident  ; 
with  a  base  man  they  fall  into  opposition.     A  large  or  a  small 


EGO-MANIA  391 

town  has  nothing  to  do  with  it.  For  Kant  in  the  small  town 
of  Koenigsberg,  in  the  last  century,  the  '  office  '  was  '  the  object 
in  life,'  '  work '  was  '  business,'  and  he  so  chose  his  '  boon 
companions '  that  they  were  at  the  same  time  his  *  comrades,' 
as  far,  indeed,  as  he  could  have  such.  And,  on  the  other  hand, 
there  is,  in  the  largest  metropolis,  no  occupation  and  no  circle  of 
men  in  which  a  degenerate,  burdened  with  his  disorder,  could 
feel  at  ease  and  in  inward  harmony. 

In  Hedda  Gabler  we  find  quite  a  multitude  of  such  words, 
apparently  saying  much,  but  in  reality  saying  nothing.  '  It 
was  the  passion  for  life  in  you  !*  exclaims  Lovborg  to  Hedda 
(p.  128),  with  the  seeming  conviction  that  he  has,  in  this  utter- 
ance, explained  something  to  her.  And  Hedda  says  (p.  142)  : 
*/see  him  before  me.  With  vine-leaves  in  his  hair.  Hot  and 
bold'  (p.  151).  'And  Ejlert  Lovborg,  he  is  sitting  with  vine- 
leaves  in  his  hair,  and  reading  aloud  '  (p.  157).  *  Had  he  vine- 
leaves  in  his  hair?'  (p.  171).  '  So  that  is  how  it  all  happened. 
Then  he  did  not  have  vine-leaves  in  his  hair  '  (p.  188). 

Hedda.  Could  you  not  contrive  that  it  should  be  done  gracefully  ? 
Lovborg.  Gracefully  ?    With  vine-leaves  in  my  hair  ? 

'  With  vine-leaves  in  his  hair;'  'the  passion  for  life' — these 
are  words  meaning,  in  the  connection  assigned  to  them, 
absolutely  nothing,  but  giving  scope  for  dreaming.  In  a  few 
instances  Ibsen  employs  these  dreamily- nebulous,  shadowy 
expressions  with  poetic  licence,  e.g.,  when  we  read  in  The  Pillars 
of  Society  (p.  19)  : 

RORLUND.  Tell  me,  Dina,  why  you  do  like  so  much  to  be  with  me  ? 

DlNA.  Because  you  teach  me  so  much  that  is  beautiful. 

RORLUND.  Beautiful?     Do  you  call  what  I  can  teach  you  beautiful  ? 

DiNA.  Yes;  or,  rather,  you  teach  me  nothing  ;  but  when  I  hear  you  speak, 
it  makes  me  think  of  so  much  that  is  beautiful. 

RORLUND.  What  do  you  understand,  then,  by  a  beautiful  thing? 

DiNA.  I  have  never  thought  of  that. 

RORLUND.  Then  think  of  it  now.  What  do  you  understand  by  a  beautiful 
thing  r 

DiNA.  A  beautiful  thing  is  something  great  and  far  away. 

Dina  is  a  young  girl  living  under  sad  and  painful  conditions. 
It  is  psychologically  accurate  that  she  should  condense  all  her 
longing  for  a  new  and  happy  existence  in  a  word  of  emotional 
colouring,  such  as  '  beautiful.'  It  is  the  same  with  the  dialogue 
between  Gregers  and  Hedwig  in  The  Wild  Duck  (p.  53)  : 

Gregers.  And  she  [the  wild  duck]  has  been  down  in  the  depths  of  the  sea. 
Hedwig.  Why  do  you  say  'in  the  depths  of  the  sea'? 
Gregers.  What  else  could  I  say  ? 

Hedwig.  You  could  say  '  the  bottom  of  the  sea'  [or  'at  the  bottom  of  he 
water  '].* 

Gregers.  Oh,  mayn't  I  just  as  well  say  the  depths  of  the  sea? 

*  Bracketed  clause  not  in  English  version. — Translator. 


392 


DEGENERATION 


Hedwig.  Yes  ;  but  it  sounds  so  strange  to  me  when  other  people  speak 
of  the  depths  of  the  sea. 

Gregers.  Why  so  ?  .  .  . 

Hedwig.  ...  It  always  seems  to  me  that  the  whole  room  and  everything 
in  it  should  be  called  the  depths  of  the  sea.  But  that's  so  stupid.  .  .  . 
Because  it's  only  a  garret  [the  place  where  the  wild  duck  lives,  the  old 
Christmas-trees  are  put,  where  old  Ekdal  chases  the  rabbit,  etc.]. 

Hedwig  is  a  highly  excitable  child  at  the  age  of  puberty 
(Ibsen  thinks  it  necessary  expressly  to  affirm  that  her  voice  is 
changing,  and  that  she  willingly  plays  with  fire)  ;  hence  it  is 
natural  that  she  should  be  thrilled  with  presentiments,  dreams, 
and  obscure  instincts,  and  invest  poetical  expressions  denoting 
something  far  away  and  wild,  such  as  '  in  the  depths  of  the  sea/ 
with  the  secret  significance  of  all  the  mysterious  and  marvellous 
surging  in  her.  But  when  expressicns  of  this  sort  are  used,  not 
by  little  growing  girls,  but  by  full-grown  persons  depicted  as 
rational  beings,  it  is  no  longer  a  question  of  dreaming  explicable 
on  pathological  grounds,  but  of  diseased  cerebral  centres. 

These  words  often  assume  the  nature  of  an  obsession.  Ibsen 
obstinately  repeats  them,  at  the  same  time  imparting  to  them  a 
mysterious  significance.  It  is  thus,  for  example,  that  the  words 
*  joy  of  life  '  appear  in  Ghosts  (p.  176)  : 

Oswald.    .  .  .  She  was  full  of  the  joy  of  life  (p.  177). 

Mrs.  Alving.  What  were  you  saying  about  the  joy  of  life? 

Oswald.  Have  you  noticed  that  everything  I  have  painted  has  turned 
upon  the  joy  of  life  ? — always,  always  upon  the  joy  of  life  ?  (p.  187). 

Mrs.  Alving.  You  spoke  of  the  joy  of  life  ;  and  at  that  word  a  new  light 
burst  for  me  over  my  life  and  all  it  has  contained.  .  .  .  You  ought  to  have 
known  your  father.  .  .  .     He  was  brimming  over  with  the  joy  of  life. 

In  Hedda  Gabler  the  word  *  beauty '  plays  a  similar  part 
(p.  190): 

Hedda  {to  Lovborg).  You  use  it  [the  pistol]  now.  ,  ,  .  And  do  it  beauti- 
fully (p.  214). 

Hedda.  I  say  that  there  is  something  beautiful  in  this  [Lovborg's  suicide] 
(p.  219). 

Hedda.  A  relief  to  know  that  it  is  still  possible  for  an  act  of  voluntary 
courage  to  take  place  in  the  world.  Something  over  which  there  falls  a  veil 
of  unintentional  beauty.  .  .  .  And  then  now — the  great  act !  That  over 
which  the  sense  of  beauty  falls  ! 

The  'vine  leaves  in  the  hair,'  in  the  same  piece,  belongs  with 
equal  exactness  to  this  category  of  words,  amounting  to  an 
obsession.  The  use  of  expressions  full  of  mystery,  incompre- 
hensible to  the  hearer,  and  either  freely  coined  by  the  speaker, 
or  endowed  by  him  with  a  peculiar  sense,  deviating  from  that 
usually  assigned  them  in  speech,  is  one  of  the  most  frequent 
phenomena  among  the  mentally  deranged.      Griesinger*  often 

*  Griesinger,  op.  cit.,  p.  176.  He  names  the  coining  of  words  'phraseo- 
mania.'  Kussmaul  gives  the  name  Paraphrasia  vesatja  to  the  coining  of 
incomprehensible  words,  or  the  using  of  known  words  in  a  sense  wholly 
foreign  to  them. 


EGO-MANIA  393 

lays  stress  on  this,  and  A.  Marie*  adduces  some  characteristic 
examples  of  words  and  phrases,  either  newly  invented  or 
employed  in  a  sense  differing  from  the  customary  one,  which 
have  been  repeated  by  the  insane. 

Ibsen  is  certainly  not  wholly  diseased  in  mind,  but  only  a 
dweller  on  the  borderland — a  '  mattoid.'  His  use  of  formalized 
expressions  does  not  therefore  go  so  far  as  the  invention  of  new 
words,  as  cited  by  Dr.  Marie.  But  that  he  ascribes  a  mysterious 
meaning  to  the  expressions  *  beauty,' *  joy  of  life,'  'courage  of 
life,'  etc.,  and  one  which  they  do  not  possess  when  rationally 
used,  follows  clearly  enough  from  the  examples  quoted. 

Finally  let  us  adduce  a  few  specimens  of  sheer  nonsense, 
corresponding  to  conversations  held  in  dreams,  and  the  silly 
rambling  speech  of  persons  suffering  from  fever  or  acute  mania. 
In  The  Lady  from  the  Sea,  Ellida  says  (p.  39) :  '  The  water  in 
the  fjord  here  is  sick,  .  .  .  yes,  sick.  And  I  believe  it  makes 
one  sick,  too'  (p.  79).  'We'  (Ellida  and  the  *  stranger')  'spoke 
of  the  gulls  and  the  eagles,  and  all  the  other  sea-birds.  I  think 
— isn't  it  wonderful? — when  we  talked  of  such  things  it  seemed 
to  me  as  if  both  the  sea-beasts  and  sea-birds  were  one  with 
him.  ...    I  almost  thought  I  belonged  to  them  all,  too  '  (p.  100). 

I  don't  think  the  dry  land  is  really  our  home.  ...  I  think  that  if  only  men 
had  from  the  beginning  accustomed  themselves  to  live  on  the  sea,  or  in  the 
sea,  perhaps,  we  should  be  more  perfect  than  we  are — with  better  and 
happier  ... 

Arnholm  {jestingly).  Well,  perhaps  !  But  it  can't  be  helped.  We've 
once  for  all  entered  upon  the  wrong  path,  and  have  become  land-beasts 
instead  of  sea-beasts.  Anyhow,  I  suppose  it's  too  late  to  make  good  the 
mistake  now. 

Ellida.  Yes,  you've  spoken  a  sad  truth.  And  I  think  men  instinctively 
feel  something  of  this  themselves.  And  they  bear  it  about  with  them  as  a 
secret  regret  and  sorrow.  Believe  me,  herein  lies  the  deepest  cause  for  the 
sadness  of  men. 

And  Dr.  Wangel,  who  is  depicted  as  a  rational  man,  says 
;p.  129) : 

And  then  she  is  so  changeable,  so  capricious — she  varies  so  suddenly. 
Arnholm.  No  doubt  that  is  the  result  of  her  morbid  state  of  mind. 
Wangel.  Not  altogether.     Ellida  belongs  to  the  sea-folk.     That  is  the 
natter  (!  !). 

*  Dr.  A.  Marie,  Etudes  sur  qiielqiies  Symptomes  des  Delires  systetnatises  et 
tur  leur  Valeiirj  Paris,  1892,  chap.  ii.  :  'Eccentricities  of  language.  Neo- 
logisms and  conjuring  incantations.'  Tanzi  cites,  among  others,  the  follow- 
ing examples  :  A  patient  used  continuously  to  repeat,  '  That  is  true,  and  not 
false';  another  began  every  phrase  with,  'God's  Word';  a  third  said,  'Out 
with  the  vile  beast  1'  making  at  the  same  time  a  sign  of  benediction  with  the 
right  hand  ;  a  fourth  said  unceasingly.  'Turn  over  the  page';  a  fifth  cried, 
in  a  tone  of  command,  '  Lips  acs  livi  cux  lips  sux  !'  etc.  One  of  Krafft- 
Ebing's  patients  {pp.  cit.,  p.  130)  constructed,  among  others,  the  following 
words  :  '  Magnetismusambosarbeitswellen,  Augengedanken  Austrahlung, 
GlUckseligkeitsbetten,  Ohrenschussmaschine,'  etc.  Krafft-Ebing,  op.  cit.^ 
pp.  130,  131. 


394  DEGENERATION 

We  must  insist  that  precisely  the  absurdities,  the  nugatory, 
blurred,  deep-sounding  phrases,  the  formalized  words,  and 
the  dream-like  drivel,  have  essentially  conduced  to  obtain  for 
Ibsen  his  particular  admirers.  Over  them  hysterical  mystics 
can  dream,  like  Dina  and  Hedwig,  over  the  words  '  beautiful ' 
and  *  in  the  depths  of  the  sea.'  As  they  mean  absolutely 
nothing,  an  inattentive  and  vagrant  mind  can  impart  to  them 
whatever  significance  may  be  suggested  by  the  play  of  associa- 
tion under  the  influence  of  momentary  emotion.  They  are, 
moreover,  exceedingly  grateful  material  for  the  (so-called) 
'  comprehensives,'  for  whom  nothing  is  ever  obscure.  '  Compre- 
hensives  '  always  explain  everything.  The  greater  the  idiocy, 
the  more  involved,  the  richer  in  import,  the  more  exhaustive  is 
its  interpretation,  and  the  greater  the  arrogance  with  which  these 
beings  of  'perfect  comprehension'  look  down  upon  the  barbarian, 
who  stoutly  refuses  to  see  in  fustian  anything  but  fustian. 

In  an  exceedingly  amusing  French  farce,  Le  Homard,  a 
husband  suddenly  returning  home  one  evening  surprises  a 
stranger  with  his  wife.  The  latter  does  not  lose  her  presence  of 
mind,  and  says  to  the  husband  that,  having  suddenly  been  seized 
with  illness,  she  had  sent  her  maid  for  the  first  available  doctor, 
and  that  this  gentleman  was  the  doctor.  The  husband  thanks 
the  gallant  for  his  speedy  appearance,  and  asks  if  he  has  already 
prescribed  anything.  The  gallant,  who,  of  course,  is  not  a  doctor, 
tries  to  make  himself  scarce  ;  but  the  anxious  husband  insists 
on  having  a  prescription,  so  that  the  Galen,  bathed  in  cold 
perspiration,  is  compelled  to  give  one.  The  husband  casts  a 
glance  at  it ;  it  consists  of  wholly  illegible  marks.  *  And  will 
the  chemist  be  able  to  read  that?'  asks  the  husband,  shaking 
his  head.  *  As  if  it  were  print,'  asseverates  the  false  physician, 
again  trying  to  make  his  escape.  The  husband,  however, 
adjures  him  to  remain,  and  holds  him  fast  until  the  maid 
returns  from  the  chemist.  In  a  ievj  minutes  she  makes  her 
appearance.  The  Galen  prepares  himself  for  a  catastrophe. 
No.  The  maid  brings  a  phial  of  medicine,  a  box  of  pills,  and 
some  powders.  *  Did  the  chemist  give  you  those  ?'  demands 
the  Galen  in  bewilderment.  '  Certainly.'  '  On  my  prescrip- 
tion ?'  '  Of  course  it  was  on  your  prescription/  replies  the 
astonished  maid.  'Has  the  chemist  made  some  mistake?' 
interposes  the  troubled  husband.  '  No,  no,'  our  Galen  hastens 
to  reply  ;  but  he  contemplates  the  medicines  for  a  long  time, 
and  becomes  lost  in  reverie. 

These  '  comprehensives  '  are  like  the  chemist  in  Le  Homard. 
They  read  with  fluency  all  Ibsen's  prescriptions,  and  especially 
those  containing  absolutely  no  written  characters,  but  simply 
crow's  feet  devoid  of  all  meaning.  It  is  also  their  trade  to 
supply  critical  pills  and  electuaries  when  a  piece  of  paper  is 
brought  to  them  bearing  the  signature  of  a  self-styled  doctor, 


EGO-MANIA  395 

and  they  dispense  them  without  wincing,  be  there  anything  of 
any  sort,  or  even  nothing,  on  the  sh'p  of  paper.  Is  it  not 
significant  that  the  sole  thing  in  Ibsen  which  the  French  mystic 
De  Vogu6,  one  of  these  '  comprehensives,'  finds  to  praise  is  one 
of  the  meaningless  phrases  above  cited  ?* 

A  final  stigma  of  Ibsen's  mysticism  must  be  considered — his 
symbolism.  In  The  Wild  Duck,  this  bird  is  the  symbol  of 
Hjalmar's  destiny,  and  the  garret  next  the  photographic  studio 
a  symbol  of  the  '  living  lie,'  of  which,  according  to  Relling, 
everyone  stands  in  need.  In  The  Lady  from  the  Sea,  Lyng- 
strand  wishes  to  make  a  group  which  shall  be  the  symbol  of 
Ellida,  as  the  '  stranger  '  with  the  changing  eyes  of  a  fish  is  of 
the  sea  and  the  latter  again  of  freedom,  so  that  the  '  stranger ' 
is  really  the  symbol  of  a  symbol.  In  Ghosts,  the  burning  of 
the  asylum  Is  the  symbol  of  the  annihilation  of  Alving's  'living 
lie,'  and  the  rainy  weather  prevailing  throughout  the  whole 
piece  the  symbol  of  the  depressed  and  sullen  frame  of  mind  of 
the  personages  In  action.  Ibsen's  earlier  pieces,  Emperor  and 
Galilean,  Brand,  Peer  Gynt,  literally  swarm  with  symbols.  A 
mysterious  collateral  significance  is  given  to  every  figure  and 
every  stage  accessory,  and  every  word  includes  a  double 
meaning.  From  the  *  Psychology  of  Mysticism '  we  already 
know  this  peculiarity  of  the  mystic  mind  to  divine  obscure 
relations  between  phenomena.  It  seeks  so  to  explain  the  nexus 
of  the  wholly  unconnected  representations  springing  up  in 
consciousness  through  the  play  of  automatic  association,  that 
it  attributes  hidden  but  essential  reference  to  each  other  In 
these  representations.  The  '  comprehensives '  believe  they  have 
said  all  when,  with  an  extremely  consequential  and  self-satisfied 
air,  they  demonstrate  that  the  '  stranger'  in  The  Lady  from  the 
Sea  signifies  the  sea,  and  the  sea  freedom.  They  quite  over- 
look the  fact  that  the  thing  to  be  explained  Is  not  what  the 
poet  intended  by  his  symbol,  but,  firstly,  and  in  particular,  why 
he  hit  upon  the  Idea  of  making  use  of  a  symbol  at  all.  In  the 
well-known  words  of  the  French  satirist,  a  clear-headed  poet 
calls  '  a  cat  a  cat'  That  to  express  so  sober  an  idea  as  that 
persons  of  fine  feelings,  living  in  narrow  conditions,  have  a  deep 
longing  for  a  free,  expanded,  unrestrained  existence,  one  should 
have  the  whim  to  invent  a  ''  stranger  with  fish-like  eyes,'  pre- 

*  Vicomte  E.  M.  de  Vogud,  '  Les  Cigognes,'  Revue  des  deux  Moiides, 
February  15,  1892,  p.  922  :  '  Ibsen  would  have  won  our  trust,  were  it  only  by 
certain  axioms  [?]  which  appeal  to  our  actual  distrusts,  such  as  this  ...  in 
Rosmerskolm :  "  The  Rosmer  view  of  life  ennobles,  but  it  kills  happiness."  ' 
I  am  convinced  that,  unless  previously  told  that  they  emanated  from  con- 
fined lunatics,  these  '  comprehensives'  would,  without  difficulty,  understand 
and  interpret  the  expression  '  little-cupboards-of-appetite-of-representation  ' 
{Vorstelluftgs-Appetitschrdnkchen),  freely  used  by  one  of  Meynert's  lunatic 
patients,  or  the  words  of  a  patient  under  Griesinger's  care  {op.  at.,  p.  176) 
that  '  the  lady  superior  was  establishing  herself  in  the  military  side-tone  and 
in  the  retardation  of  her  teeth.' 


396  DEGENERATION 

supposes  a  diseased  mental  activity.  In  imbeciles,  the  tendency 
to  allegory  and  symbolism  is  very  common.  'Intricate 
arabesques,  symbolical  figures,  cabalistic  gestures  and  attitudes, 
strange  interpretations  of  natural  events,  punning,  word-coining, 
and  peculiar  modes  of  expression,  frequently  occurring  in 
paranoia,  give  the  delirium  a  lively  and  grotesque  colouring.' 
Thus  writes  Tanzi,*  and  in  the  symbolism  of  the  insane  he 
saw,  as  Meynert  had  previously  seen,  a  form  of  atavism. 
Among  men  low  in  the  grade  of  civilization  symbolism  is,  in 
fact,  the  habitual  form  of  thought.  We  know  the  reason — 
their  brain  is  not  yet  trained  to  attention  ;  it  is  too  weak  to 
suppress  irrational  associations,  and  refers  all  that  shoots 
through  its  consciousness  to  some  chance  phenomenon  either 
just  perceived,  or  else  remembered. 

After  all  the  mental  stigmata  of  Ibsen  with  which  we  have 
become  acquainted — his  theological  obsessions  of  original  sin, 
of  confession  and  redemption,  the  absurdities  of  his  invention, 
the  constant  contradiction  in  his  uncertain  opinions,  his  vague 
or  senseless  modes  of  expression,  his  onomatomania  and  his 
symbolism — he  might  be  numbered  among  the  mystic  degen- 
erates with  which  I  have  concerned  myself  in  the  previous 
chapters.  We  are,  however,  justified  in  assigning  him  his  place 
among  the  ego-maniacs,  because  the  diseased  intensification  of 
his  ego-consciousness  is  even  more  striking  and  characteristic 
than  his  mysticism.  His  ego-mania  assumes  the  form  of 
anarchism.  He  is  in  a  state  of  constant  revolt  against  all  that 
exists.  He  never  exercises  rational  criticism  with  regard  to  this  ; 
he  never  shows  what  is  bad,  why  it  is  bad,  and  how  it  could  be 
made  better.  No  ;  he  only  reproaches  it  with  its  existence,  and 
has  only  one  longing — to  destroy  it.  'The  ruin  of  everything  ' 
was  the  programme  of  certain  destructives  in  1848,  and  has 
remained  that  of  Ibsen.  He  condenses  it  with  a  clearness  which 
leaves  nothing  to  be  desired  in  his  well-known  poem,  To  my 
Friend  the  Destructive  Orator.  In  this  he  glorifies  the  deluge 
as  the  '  sole  revolution  not  made  by  a  half-and-half  dabbler' 
(Halohedsfusker)  ;  but  even  it  was  not  radically  ruinous  enough. 
'  We  want  to  make  it  still  more  radical,  but  for  that  end  we 
need  men  and  orators.  You  charge  yourselves  with  flooding 
the  terrestrial  garden.  I  place  blissfully  a  torpedo  under  the 
ark.'  t     In  a  series  of  letters  offered  by  elephant-driver  Brandes 

*  Tanzi,  /  Neologismi  zft  rapporta  col  Delirio  cromco.     Turin,  1 890. 
f  'Vi  vil  gjore  det  om  igjen  raditalere, 

Men  dertil  sordres  baade  Maend  og  Talere. 
J  sorger  sor  Vandflom  til  Verdensparken, 
Jeg  laegger  med  Lyst  Torpedo  under  Arken.* 
Observe  the  purely  mystic  vapours  of  this  thought.     The  poet  wishes  to 
destroy  everything,  even    the   ark  which   shelters   the   saved  remnants  of 
terrestrial  life,  but  sees  himself  placed  beyond  the  reach  of  the  destruction, 
and  hence  will  survive  the  annihilation  of  everything  else  on  earth. 


EGO-MANIA  397 

for  the  edification  of  the  adorers  of  Ibsen,  the  poet  gives  con- 
spicuous specimens  of  his  theories.*  The  state  must  be  de- 
stroyed. Unfortunately  the  Paris  Communists  bungled  this 
beautiful  and  fertile  idea  by  clumsy  execution.  The  fight  for 
freedom  has  not  for  its  end  the  conquest  of  liberty,  but  is  its 
own  end.  As  soon  as  we  believe  liberty  to  be  attained,  and 
cease  to  fight  for  it,  we  prove  it  to  be  lost  to  us.  The  meri- 
torious thing  in  the  fight  for  liberty  is  the  state  of  permanent 
revolt  against  all  existing  things  which  it  presupposes.  There 
is  nothing  fixed  and  permanent,  'Who  warrants  me  that  in  the 
planet  Jupiter  twice  two  are  not  five?'  (This  remark  is  an 
unmistakable  manifestation  of  the  insanity  of  doubt,-}*  which  in 
recent  years  has  been  deeply  studied.)  There  is  no  true  mar- 
riage. Friends  are  a  costly  luxury.  '  They  have  long  hindered 
me  from  being  myself  The  care  of  the  '  I '  is  the  sole  task 
of  man.  He  ought  not  to  allow  himself  to  be  diverted  from  it 
by  any  law  or  any  consideration. 

These  thoughts,  expressed  by  himself  in  his  letters,  he  also 
puts  into  the  mouth  of  his  dramatic  characters.  I  have  already 
cited  some  of  Mrs.  Alving's  and  Nora's  ego-maniacal  and 
anarchical  phrases.  In  The  Pillars  of  Society^  Dinasays  (p.  19)  : 
'  If  only  the  people  I  lived  amongst  weren't  so  proper  and  moral. 
Everyday  Hilda  and  Netta  come  here  that  I  may  take  example 
by  them.  I  can  never  be  as  well  behaved  as  they  are,  and  I 
wott't  be '  (p.  44). 

But  I  wanted  to  know,  too,  if  people  over  there  [in  America]  are  very — 
very  moral  .  .  .  if  they  are  so — so  proper  and  well-behaved  as  here. 

JOHAN.  Well,  at  any  rate,  they're  not  so  bad  as  people  here  think. 

DiNA.  You  don't  understand  me.  What  I  want  is  just  that  they  should 
not  be  so  very  proper  and  moral  (p.  92).     I  am  sick  of  all  this  goodness. 

Martha  Bernick.  Oh,  how  we  writhe  under  this  tyranny  of  custom  and 
convention  !  Rebel  against  it,  Dina.  Do  something  to  defy  all  this  use-and- 
wont  ! 

In  An  Enemy  of  the  People  (p.  278)  Stockmann  declares:  'I 
detest  leading  men  .  .  .  they  stand  in  the  path  of  a  free  man 
wherever  he  turns — and  I  should  be  glad  if  we  could  exter- 
minate them  like  other  noxious  animals.'  (P.  280)  '  The  most 
dangerous  enemies  of  truth  and  freedom  in  our  midst  are  the 

*  Georges  Brandes,  op.  czt.,  pp.  431,  435,  438,  etc. 

t  J.  Cotard,  Etudes  sur  les  Maladies  cerebrales  et  nientales  j  Paris,  1891. 
In  this  book  the  delire  des  negations  is  for  the  first  time  recognised  and 
described  as  a  form  of  melancholia.  The  Third  Congress  of  French  Alienists, 
which  sat  at  Blois  from  the  1st  to  the  6th  of  August,  1892,  devoted  almost 
the  whole  of  its  conferences  to  the  insanity  of  doubt.  In  a  work  by  F.  Ray- 
mond and  F.  L.  Arnaud,  'Sur  certains  cas  d'aboulie  avec  obsession  inter- 
rogative et  trouble  des  mouvements '  {Annales  medico-psycJiologiques.,  7« 
series,  t.  xvi.),  we  read,  p.  202  :  '  The  invalids  occupy  themselves  with 
questions  intrinsically  insoluble,  such  as  the  creation,  nature,  life,  etc.  Why 
the  trees  are  green  ?  Why  the  rainbow  has  seven  colours  ?  Why  men  are 
not  as  tall  as  houses  ?'  etc. 


398  DEGENERATION 

compact  majority.  Yes,  this  execrable  compact,  Liberal 
majority — they  it  is.  .  .  .  The  majority  is  never  right.  .  .  . 
The  minority  is  always  right.'  Where  Ibsen  does  not  seriously 
attack  the  majority  he  derides  it — e.g.,  when  he  entrusts  the 
maintenance  of  society  to  grotesque  Philistines,  or  makes  self- 
styled  Radicals  betray  the  hypocrisy  of  their  Liberal  views. 
In  An  Enemy  of  the  People  (p.  238) : 

Burgomaster.  You  want  to  fly  in  the  face  of  your  superiors  ;  and  that's 
an  old  habit  of  yours.     You  can't  endure  any  authority  over  you.' 

In  Rosmersholm  (p.  53) : 

MoRTENSGAARD  [the  journalist  who  poses  as  a  Freethinker].  We  have 
plenty  of  Freethinkers  already,  Pastor  Rosmer — I  almost  might  say  too  many. 
What  the  party  requires  is  a  Christian  element — something  that  everyone 
must  respect.     That's  what  we're  sadly  in  need  of. 

With  the  same  purpose  of  anarchistic  ridicule  he  always 
personifies  the  sense  of  duty  in  idiots  or  contemptible  Pharisees 
only.  In  Ghosts  the  blockhead.  Pastor  Manders,  thus  preaches 
(p.  142)  :  *  What  right  have  we  human  beings  to  happiness  ? 
No,  we  have  to  do  our  duty !  And  your  duty  was  to  hold 
firmly  to  the  man  you  had  once  chosen,  and  to  whom  you  are 
bound  by  a  holy  tie.'  In  The  Pillars  of  Society  it  is  the  rogue 
Bernick  who  is  made  to  proclaim  the  necessity  of  the  subordi- 
nation of  the  individual  to  the  community  (p.  58)  :  '  People 
must  learn  to  moderate  their  personal  claims  if  they  are  to 
fulfil  their  duties  in  the  community  in  which  they  are  placed.' 
In  An  Enemy  of  the  People  the  not  less  pitiable  burgomaster 
sermonizes  his  brother  Stockmann  in  this  fashion  (p.  209)  : 
*  Anyhow,  you've  an  ingrained  propensity  for  going  your  own 
way.  And  that  in  a  well-ordered  community  is  almost  always 
dangerous.  The  individual  must  submit  himself  to  the  whole 
community.' 

The  trick  is  evident :  to  make  the  conception  of  the  neces- 
sary subordination  of  the  individual  ridiculous  and  contemptible, 
Ibsen  appoints  as  its  mouthpieces  ridiculous  and  contemptible 
beings.  On  the  other  hand,  it  is  the  characters  on  whom  he 
lavishes  all  the  wealth  of  his  affection  to  whom  he  entrusts  the 
duty  of  defending  rebellion  against  duty,  the  aspersion  or 
derision  of  laws,  morals,  institutions,  self-discipline,  and  the 
proclaiming  of  unscrupulous  ego-mania  as  the  sole  guide  of  life. 

The  psychological  roots  of  Ibsen's  anti-social  impulses  are 
well  known.  They  are  the  degenerate's  incapacity  for  self- 
adaptation,  and  the  resulting  discomfort  in  the  midst  of  cir- 
cumstances to  which,  in  consequence  of  his  organic  deficiencies, 
he  cannot  accommodate  himself.     '  The  criminal,'  Lombroso* 

*  Lombroso  and  B.  Laschi,  Le  Crime  politique  et  les  Revolutiotis  paf 
rapport  ail  Droits  a  V Anthropologie  criminelle  et  d  la  Science  du  Gouverne- 
vient.     Traduit  de  P Italien  par  H.  Bouchard.     Paris,  1892,  t.  i.,  p.  195. 


EGO-MANIA  399 

says,  *  in  consequence  of  his  neurotic  and  impulsive  nature, 
and  his  hatred  of  the  institutions  which  have  punished  or 
imprisoned  him,  is  a  perpetual  latent  political  rebel,  who  finds 
in  insurrection  the  means  not  only  of  satisfying  his  passions, 
but  of  even  having  them  countenanced  for  the  first  time  by 
a  numerous  public'  This  utterance  is  exactly  applicable  to 
Ibsen,  with  the  slight  change,  that  he  is  merely  a  theoretic 
criminal,  his  motor  centres  not  being  powerful  enough  to 
transmute  his  anarchically  criminal  ideas  into  deeds,  and  that 
he  finds  the  satisfaction  of  his  destructive  impulses  not  in  the 
insurrection,  but  in  the  activity  of  dramatic  composition. 

His  incapacity  for  self-adaptation  makes  him  not  only  an 
anarchist,  but  also  a  misanthrope,  and  fills  him  with  a  pro- 
found weariness  of  life.  The  doctrine  oi  An  Enejuy  of  the  People 
is  contained  in  Stockmann's  exclamation  (p.  315):  'The 
strongest  man  on  earth  is  he  who  stands  most  alone ' ;  and  in 
Rosmersholm  (p.  24),  Brendel  says  :  '  I  like  to  take  my  pleasures 
in  solitude,  for  then  I  enjoy  them  doubly.'  The  same  Brendel 
subsequently  laments  (p.  105)  :  *  I  am  going  homewards  ;  I 
am  home-sick  for  the  mighty  Void.  .  .  .  Peter  Mortensgaard 
never  wills  more  than  he  can  do.  Peter  Mortensgaard  is 
capable  of  living  his  life  without  ideals.  And  that,  do  you  see, 
that  is  just  the  mighty  secret  of  action  and  of  victory.  It  is 
the  sum  of  the  whole  world's  wisdom.  .  .  .  The  dark  night  is 
best.  Peace  be  with  you  !'  Brendel's  words  have  a  peculiar 
significance,  for,  on  the  evidence  of  Ehrhard,*  Ibsen  wished 
to  portray  himself  in  that  personage.  That  which  is  ex- 
pressed in  these  passages  is  the  degout  des  gens  and  the  tedium 
vitcB  of  alienists,  phenomena  never  absent  in  depressed  forms  of 
mental  alienation. 

In  addition  to  his  mysticism  and  ego-mania,  Ibsen's  extra- 
ordinary poverty  of  ideas  indicates  another  stigma  of  de- 
generacy. Superficial  or  ignorant  judges,  who  appraise  an 
artist's  intellectual  wealth  by  the  number  of  volumes  he  has 
produced,  believe  that  when  they  point  at  the  high  pile  of  a 
degenerate's  works  they  have  victoriously  refuted  the  accu- 
sation of  his  infecundity.  The  well-informed  are  of  course 
not  entrapped  by  this  paltry  method  of  proof.  The  history 
of  insane  literature  knows  of  a  large  number  of  cases  in  which 
fools  have  written  and  published  dozens  of  thick  volumes. 
For  tens  of  years  and  in  feverish  haste  they  must  have  driven 
the  pen,  almost  continuously,  night  and  day ;    but   since  all 

*  Auguste  Ehrhard,  op.  at.,  p.  412  :  *  He  [Ibsen]  assigns  himself  a  role  to 
acquaint  us  in  a  direct  manner  with  his  own  disillusionings.  .  .  ,  Represents 
himself  in  the  fantastic  and  tormented  character  of  Ulric  Brendel.  Let  us 
not  be  deceived  by  the  disguise  in  which  he  veils  himself,  Ulric  Brendel, 
the  fool,  is  no  other  than  Henrik  Ibsen,  the  idealist'  (.''}. 


400  DEGENERATION 

these  bulky  tomes  contain  not  a  single  idea  of  any  utility, 
this  restless  activity  is  not  to  be  termed  fruitful,  in  spite  of  the 
abundant  typographical  results.  We  have  seen  that  Richard 
Wagner  never  invented  a  tale,  a  figure,  a  situation  ;  but  that 
he  sponged  on  ancient  poems  or  the  Bible.  Ibsen  has  almost 
as  little  genuine  original  creative  power  as  his  intellectual 
relative,  and  as  he,  in  his  beggar's  pride,  disdains  for  the  most 
part  to  borrow  from  other  poets  of  procreative  capacity,  or 
from  popular  traditions  exuberant  with  life,  his  poems  reveal, 
when  closely  and  keenly  examined,  an  even  greater  poverty 
than  those  of  Wagner.  If  we  do  not  allow  ourselves  to  be 
dazzled  by  the  art  of  variation  in  a  contrapuntist  extra- 
ordinarily clever  in  dramatic  technique,  and  follow  the  themes 
he  so  adroitly  elaborates,  we  at  once  recognise  their  dreary 
monotony. 

At  the  central  point  of  all  his  pieces  (with  the  exception  of 
those  of  a  romantic  character,  written  by  him  in  his  first  period 
of  pure  imitation)  stand  two  figures,  always  the  same  and 
fundamentally  one,  but  having  now  a  negative  and  now  a 
positive  sign,  a  thesis  and  antithesis  in  the  "Hegelian  sense. 
They  are,  on  the  one  hand,  the  human  being  who  obeys  his 
inner  law  only  (that  is,  his  ego-mania),  and  dauntlessly  and 
defiantly  makes  a  parade  of  it ;  and,  on  the  other,  the  in- 
dividual who,  it  is  true,  really  acts  in  obedience  to  his  ego- 
mania only,  but  has  not  the  courage  to  display  it,  feigning 
respect  for  the  law  of  others  and  for  the  notions  of  the 
majority — in  other  words,  the  avowed  and  violent  anarchist, 
and  his  opposite,  the  crafty  and  timorously  deceitful  anarchist. 
The  avowed  ego-maniac  is,  with  one  single  exception,  always 
embodied  in  a  woman.  The  exception  is  Brand.  On  the 
contrary,  the  hypocrite  is  always  a  man — again  with  a  single 
exception,  viz.,  that  of  Hedda  Gabler,  who  does  not  personify 
the  idea  in  its  purity,  frank  anarchism  in  her  nature  being 
mingled  with  something  of  hypocrisy.  Nora  (A  Doll's  Home), 
Mrs.  Alving  (Ghosts).  Selma  Malsberg  (The  League  of  the  Young), 
Dina,  Martha  Hessel,  Mrs.  Bernick  (The  Pillars  of  Society), 
Hedda  Gabler,  Ellida  Wangel  [The  Lady  from  the  Sea),  Rebecca 
(Rosniersholm) ,  are  one  and  the  same  figure,  but  seen,  as  it  were, 
at  different  hours  of  the  day,  and  consequently  in  different 
lights.  Some  are  in  the  major,  others  in  the  minor,  key ; 
some  are  more,  others  less  hysterically  deranged  ;  but  essen- 
tially they  are  not  only  similar,  but  identical.  Selma  Malsberg 
(p.  60)  cries  :  '  Bear  our  unhappiness  in  common  ?  Am  I  yet 
good  enough?  No.  I  can  no  longer  keep  silent,  be  a  hypo- 
crite and  a  liar.  Now  you  shall  know.  ...  O,  how  you  have 
wronged  me  !  Infamously,  all  of  5'ou  !  .  .  .  How  I  have 
thirsted  for  a  drop  of  your  care !     But  when  I  begged  for  it 


EGOMANIA  401 

you  repulsed  me  with  a  polite  joke.  You  dressed  me  like  a 
doll.  You  played  with  me  as  with  a  child.  ...  I  want  to  go 
away  from  you.  .  .  .  Let  me,  let  me.'  And  Nora  (p.  no)  : 
*  I  lived  by  performing  tricks  for  you,  Torvald.  .  .  .  You  and 
your  father  have  sinned  greatly  against  me.  It  is  the  fault  of 
you  two  that  nothing  has  been  made  of  me.  I  was  never 
happy,  only  merry.  .  .  .  Our  house  has  been  nothing  but  a 
nursery.  Here  I  have  been  your  doll-wife,  just  as  at  home  I 
used  to  be  papa's  doll-child.  .  .  .  That  is  why  I  am  going 
away  from  you  now.  ...  I  shall  now  leave  your  house  at 
once.'  Ellida  {The  Lady  from  the  Sea) :  '  What  I  want  is  that 
we  should,  of  our  own  free  will,  release  each  other.  ...  I 
am  not  what  you  took  me  for.  Now  you  see  it  yourself.  Now 
we  can  separate  as  friends,  and  freely.  .  .  .  Here  there  is  no 
single  thing  that  attracts  me  and  binds  me.  I  am  so  abso- 
lutely rootless  in  your  house,  Wangel.'  Selma  threatens  to 
leave,  Ellida  resolves  to  leave,  Nora  does  leave,  Mrs.  Alving 
did  leave.  {Ghosts,  p.  144)  Pastor  Manders  :  '  All  your  efforts 
have  been  bent  towards  emancipation  and  lawlessness.  You 
have  never  been  willing  to  endure  any  bond.  Everything  that 
has  weighed  upon  you  in  life  you  have  cast  away  without  care 
or  conscience,  like  a  burden  you  could  throw  off  at  will.  It 
did  not  please  you  to  be  a  wife  any  longer,  and  you  left  your 
husband.  You  found  it  troublesome  to  be  a  mother,  and  you 
sent  your  child  forth  among  strangers.'  Mrs.  Bernick  was, 
equally  with  her  double,  Mrs.  Alving,  a  stranger  in  her  own 
house.  She,  however,  does  not  wish  to  leave,  but  to  remain  and 
endeavour  to  win  over  her  husband  (p.  112)  :  *  For  many  years 
I  believed  that  you  had  once  been  mine,  and  I  had  lost  you 
again.  Now  I  know  that  you  never  were  mine ;  but  I  shall 
win  you.'  Dina  {The  Pillars  of  Society)  cannot  leave  because 
she  is  not  yet  married,  but  as  becomes  her  state  of  maiden- 
hood, she  gives  her  rebellious  thoughts  this  form  (p.  93)  :  '  I 
will  be  your  wife  ;  but  first  I  will  work,  and  become  something 
for  myself,  just  as  you  are.  I  will  give  myself;  I  will  not  be 
taken.'  Rebecca  {Rosmersholm)  is  also  unmarried,  yet  she  runs 
away  (p.  96)  : 

I  am  going. 

ROSJVIER.  Where  are  you  going,  Rebecca? 

Rebecca.  North,  by  the  steamer.     It  was  there  I  came  from. 

ROSMER.  But  you  have  no  ties  there  now. 

Rebecca.  I  have  none  here  either. 

RoSMER.  What  do  you  think  of  doing  ? 

Rebecca.  I  don't  know.     I  only  want  to  have  done  with  it  all. 

Now  for  the  antithesis,  the  hypocritical  egoist  who  satisfies 
his  ego-mania  without  giving   offence  to  society.     This   per- 
sonage   presents    himself    under    the   names   successively   of 
26 


402  DEGENERATION 

Torvald  Helmer,  Consul  Bernick,  Curate  Rorlund,  Rector 
Kroll,  Pastor  Manders,  Burgomaster  Stockmann,  Werle, 
and  once,  to  a  certain  extent,  Hedda  Gabler,  always  with 
the  same  ideas  and  the  same  words.  In  A  Doll's  House 
(p.  104,  et  seq.),  after  his  wife's  confession,  Helmer  cries  :  'Oh, 
what  an  awful  awakening !  .  .  .  No  religion,  no  morality,  no 
sense  of  duty.  .  .  .  He  can  publish  the  whole  story  ;  and  if 
he  does  publish  it,  perhaps  I  should  be  suspected  of  having 
been  a  party  to  your  criminal  transactions.  ...  I  must  try 
to  pacify  him  in  one  way  or  the  other.  The  story  must  be 
kept  secret,  cost  what  it  may.'  In  Ghosts  Pastor  Manders  on 
different  occasions  expresses  himself  thus  :  '  One  is  certainly 
not  bound  to  account  to  everybody  for  what  one  reads  and 
thinks  within  one's  own  four  walls.  .  .  .  We  must  not  expose 
ourselves  to  false  interpretations,  and  we  have  no  right  what- 
ever to  give  offence  to  our  neighbours.  .  .  .  You  go  and  risk 
your  good  name  and  reputation,  and  nearly  succeed  in  ruining 
other  people's  reputation  into  the  bargain.  It  was  unspeakably 
reckless  of  you  to  seek  refuge  with  me.  .  .  .  Yes,  that  is  the  only 
thing  possible '  (to  '  hush  the  matter  up  ')  *  .  .  .  yes,  family  life 
is  certainly  not  always  so  pure  as  it  ought  to  be.  But  in  such 
a  case  as  you  point  to  '  (an  incestuous  union),  *  one  can  never 
know.'  Rorlund  {The  Pillars  of  Society)  :  '  See  how  the  family 
is  undermined  over  there !  how  a  brazen  spirit  of  destruction 
is  attacking  the  most  vital  truths  !  .  .  .  Of  course,  a  tare  now 
and  then  springs  up  among  the  wheat,  alas !  but  we  honestly 
do  our  best  to  weed  it  out.  .  .  .  Oh,  Dina,  you  can  form  no 
conception  of  the  thousand  considerations  !  When  a  man  is 
placed  as  a  moral  pillar  of  the  society  he  lives  in,  why — he  can- 
not be  too  careful.  .  .  .  Oh,  Dina,  you  are  so  dear  to  me  ! 
Hush !  someone  is  coming.  Dina,  for  my  sake,  go  out  to  the 
others.  ...  A  good  book  forms  a  refreshing  contrast  to  what 
we  unhappily  see  every  day  in  newspapers  and  magazines.' 
Consul  Bernick,  in  the  same  piece:  'Just  at  this  time,  when  I 
depend  so  much  on  unmixed  good  feeling,  both  in  the  press 
and  in  the  town.  There  will  be  paragraphs  in  the  papers  all 
over  the  country-side.  .  .  .  These  newspaper  scribblers  are 
always  covertly  carping  at  us.  ...  I  whose  mission  it  is  to 
be  an  example  to  my  fellow-citizens,  must  have  such  things 
thrown  in  my  teeth !  I  cannot  bear  it.  It  won't  do  for  me  to 
have  my  name  bespattered  in  this  way.  ...  I  must  keep  mj' 
conscience  unspotted.  Besides,  it  will  make  a  good  impression 
on  both  the  press  and  the  public  at  large  when  they  see  that  I 
set  aside  all  personal  considerations,  and  let  justice  take  its 
course.'  Kroll,  in  Rosmersholm  :  '  Do  you  ever  see  the  Radical 
papers  ?  .  .  .  But  you've  seen,  then,  I  suppose,  how  these 
gentlemen  of  "the  people"  have  been  pleased  to  treat  me? 


EGO-MANIA  403 

what  infamous  abuse  they've  dared  to  heap  upon  me  ?' 
Werle,  in  The  Wild  Duck  :  '  Even  if,  out  of  attachment  to  me, 

she  were  to  disregard  gossip  and  scandal  and  all  that ?' 

The  Burgomaster,  in  An  Enemy  of  the  People  :  '  If,  perhaps,  I  do 
watch  over  my  reputation  with  some  anxiety,  I  do  it  for  the 
good  of  the  town.  .  .  .  Your  statement  .  .  .  must  be  kept 
back  for  the  good  of  all  .  .  .  we  will  do  the  best  we  can 
quietly  ;  but  nothing  whatever,  not  a  single  word,  of  this  un- 
fortunate business  must  be  made  public.  .  .  .  And  then  you 
have  an  unhappy  propensity  for  rushing  into  print  upon  every 
possible  and  impossible  matter.  You  no  sooner  hit  upon  an 
idea  than  you  must  write  at  once  some  newspaper  article  or  a 
whole  pamphlet  about  it.'  Finally,  Hedda  Gabler :  '  And  so 
you  went  off  perfectly  openly  ?  .  .  .  But  what  do  you  suppose 
that  people  will  say  about  you,  then  ?  .  .  .  I  so  dread  a 
scandal !  You  should  accept  for  your  own  sake,  or,  better 
still,  for  the  world's  sake.' 

If  all  the  Nora-like  and  all  the  Helmer-like  utterances  are 
read  successively,  an  impression  must  be  formed  that  they 
are  part  of  the  same  role;  and  this  impression  is  correct,  for 
under  all  the  different  names  there  is  only  one  role.  The  same 
is  true  of  the  women  who,  in  contrast  to  the  ego-maniac  Nora, 
unselfishly  sacrifice  themselves.  Martha  Bernick,  Miss  Hessel, 
Hedwig,  Miss  Tesman,  etc.,  are  always  the  same  figure  in 
different  guises.  The  monotony,  moreover,  extends  to  minutest 
details.  Rank's  inherited  disease  is  in  Oswald's  case  only 
carried  further.  Nora's  flight  is  repeated  in  almost  every 
piece,  and  in  The  Wild  Duck  is  travestied  in  Hjalmar's  de- 
parture from  his  house.  One  feature  of  this  scene  appears 
word  for  word  in  all  the  rechauffes  of  it : 

Nora.  Here  I  lay  the  keys  down.  The  maids  know  how  to  manage 
everything  in  the  house  far  better  than  I  do. 

Ellida.  If  I  do  go  .  .  .  I  haven't  a  key  to  give  up,  an  order  to  give.  .  .  . 
I  am  absolutely  rootless  in  your  house,  etc. 

In  A  DolVs  House,  the  heroine,  who  has  settled  her  account 
with  life  and  is  filled  with  dread  of  the  impending  catastrophe, 
makes  Rank  play  a  wild  tarantella  on  the  piano,  while  she 
dances  to  it.  In  Hedda  Gabler,  the  heroine  is  heard  *  suddenly 
playing  a  wild  dance  '  before  she  shoots  herself.  Rosmer  says 
to  Rebecca,  when  the  latter  makes  known  her  wish  to  die  : 
*No;  you  recoil.  You  have  not  the  heart  to  do  what  she  dared.' 
The  extortioner  Krogstad  says  to  Nora,  who  threatens  to 
commit  suicide  :  '  Oh,  you  don't  frighten  me !  An  elegant 
spoilt  lady  like  you.  .  .  .  People  don't  do  things  of  that  sort' 
Brack  says,  in  response  to  Hedda  Gabler's  outburst :  '  Rather 
die  !     That's  what  people  say,  but  nobody  does  it !'     In  much 


404  DEGENERATION 

the  same  words  Helmer  reproaches  his  wife  Nora  with  having 
sacrificed  her  honour  by  the  forgery,  and  Pastor  Manders 
upbraids  Mrs.  Alving  for  wishing  to  sacrifice  her  honour  to 
him.  Lona  Hessel  demands  confession  from  Consul  Bernick, 
and  Rebecca  from  Rosmer,  in  the  same  terms.  Werle's  crime 
was  the  seduction  of  the  maidservant  Gina.  Alving's  crime 
was  the  seduction  of  his  own  maidservant.  This  pitiable  and 
imbecile  self-repetition  in  Ibsen,  this  impotence  of  his  indolent 
brain  to  wash  out  the  imprint  of  an  idea  once  painfully 
elaborated,  goes  so  far  that,  even  in  the  invention  of  names 
for  his  characters,  he  is,  consciously  or  unconsciously,  under 
the  influence  of  a  reminiscence.  In  A  Doll's  House  we  have 
Helmer  ;  in  The  Wild  Duck,  Hjalmar  ;  in  The  Pillars  of  Society, 
Hilmar,  Mrs.  Bernick's  brother. 

Thus  Ibsen's  drama  is  like  a  kaleidoscope  in  a  sixpenny 
bazaar.  When  one  looks  through  the  peep-hole,  one  sees, 
at  each  shaking  of  the  cardboard  tube,  new  and  parti-coloured 
Combinations.  Children  are  amused  at  this  toy.  But  adults 
know  that  it  contains  only  splinters  of  coloured  glass,  always 
the  same,  inserted  haphazard,  and  united  into  symmetrical 
figures  by  three  bits  of  looking-glass,  and  they  soon  tire  of 
the  expressionless  arabesques.  My  simile  applies  not  only 
to  Ibsen's  plays,  but  to  the  author  himself  In  reality,  he  is 
the  kaleidoscope.  The  few  paltry  bits  of  glass  which  for 
thirty  years  he  has  rattled  and  thrown  into  cheap  mosaic 
patterns,  these  are  his  obsessions.  These  have  existed  in  his 
own  diseased  mind,  and  have  not  sprung  from  observation  of 
the  world's  drama.  The  pretended  '  realist '  knows  nothing  of 
real  life.  He  does  not  comprehend  it ;  he  does  not  even  see  it, 
and  cannot,  therefore,  renew  from  it  his  store  of  impressions, 
ideas,  and  judgments.  The  well-known  method  of  manu- 
facturing cannon  is  to  take  a  tube  and  pour  molten  metal 
round  it.  Ibsen  proceeds  in  a  similar  way  with  his  poems. 
He  has  a  thesis  —  more  accurately,  some  anarchistic  folly ; 
this  is  the  tube.  It  is  now  only  a  question  of  enveloping 
this  tube  with  the  metal  of  life's  realities.  But  that  lies 
beyond  Ibsen's  power.  At  best  he  occasionally  finds  some 
bits  of  worn-down  horseshoe-nails,  or  castaway  sardine-box, 
by  rummaging  among  dust-heaps ;  but  this  small  quantity  of 
metal  does  not  suffice  for  a  cannon.  Where  Ibsen  makes 
strenuous  efforts  to  produce  a  picture  of  actual  contempo- 
raneous events,  he  astounds  us  with  the  niggardliness  in 
incidents  and  human  beings  evinced  by  the  range  of  his 
experience. 

Philistine,  ultra-provincial,  these  are  no  fit  words  for  this. 
It  sinks  below  the  level  of  the  human.  The  naturalist  Huber 
and    Sir  John   Lubbock  have  recorded  incidents  of  this  sort 


EGO-MANIA  405 

in  their  observations  of  colonies  of  ants.  The  small  features 
pinned  by  Ibsen  to  his  two-legged  theses,  to  give  them,  at 
least,  as  much  resemblance  to  humanity  as  is  possessed  by  a 
scarecrow,  are  borrowed  from  the  society  of  a  hideous  hole 
on  the  Norwegian  coast,  composed  of  drunkards  and  silly 
louts,  of  idiots  and  crazed  hysterical  geese,  who  in  their  whole 
life  have  never  formed  a  clearer  thought  than :  '  How  can  I 
get  hold  of  a  bottle  of  brandy  ?'  or  '  How  can  I  make  myself 
interesting  to  men  ?'  The  sole  characteristic  distinguishing 
these  Lovborgs,  Ekdals,  Oswald  Alvings,  etc.,  from  beasts  is 
that  they  are  given  to  drink.  The  Noras,  Heddas,  Elhdas, 
do  not  tipple,  but  make  up  for  that  by  raving  so  wildly  as  to 
require  strait-jackets.  The  great  events  of  their  lives  are  the 
obtaining  of  a  position  in  a  bank  {A  Doll's  House) ;  their 
catastrophes,  that  one  no  longer  beheves  in  the  articles  of 
their  creed  (Rosmersholm) ;  the  loss  of  an  appointment  as 
physician  at  a  watering-place  {An  Enemy  of  the  People)  ;  the 
raked-up  rumours  of  an  amorous  nocturnal  peche  de  jeunesse 
(The  Pillars  of  Society) ;  the  frightful  crimes  darkening,  like  a 
thunder-cloud,  the  lives  of  these  beings  and  their  social  circle 
are  an  intrigue  with  a  maidservant  (Ghosts,  The  Wild  Duck)  ; 
a  liaison  with  an  itinerant  music-hall  singer  (An  Enemy  of  the 
People)  ;  the  felling,  by  mistake,  of  wood  in  a  state-forest  [The 
Wild  Duck)  ;  the  visit  to  a  house  of  ill-fame  after  a  good 
dinner  (Hedda  G abler).  It  sometimes  happens  to  me  to  pass 
a  half-hour  in  the  nursery,  amusing  myself  with  the  chatter 
and  play  of  the  little  ones.  One  day  the  children  by  accident 
saw  the  arrest  of  someone  in  the  street.  Although  their 
attendant  hurried  them  away  from  the  unpleasant  spectacle, 
they  had  seen  enough  of  the  tumult  to  be  violently  excited 
by  it.  Some  days  afterwards  on  entering  the  nursery  I  found 
them  full  of  the  great  event,  and  I  became  the  auditor  of  the 
following  dialogue : 

Matilda  (aged  three  years).  Why  did  they  put  the  gentleman  in  prison  ? 

Richard  (Jive  years  old,  very  digtiijied  and  'se?ite7ttious).  It  wasn't  a 
gentleman  ;  it  was  a  bad  man.  They  put  him  in  prison  because  he  was 
wicked. 

Matilda.  What  had  he  done  then? 

Richard  (after  reflectittg  a  little).  His  mamma  had  said  he  wasn't  to  take 
chocolate  ;  but  he  did  take  chocolate.  That's  why  his  mamma  had  him  put 
in  prison. 

This  childish  conversation  always  came  into  my  mind  when 
I  lighted,  in  Ibsen's  plays,  upon  one  of  his  crimes  treated  with 
such  overawing  importance. 

We  have  now  made  the  complete  tour  of  Ibsen.  At  the 
risk  of  being  prolix  and  tedious,  I  have  made  copious  quota- 
tions from  his  writings,  in  order  that  the  reader  might  himself 
see   the   matter   from   which  I   have  formed  my  judgments. 


4o6  DEGENERATION 

Ibsen  stands  before  us  as  a  mystic  and  an  ego-maniac,  who 
would  willingly  prove  the  world  and  mankind  not  worth 
powder  and  shot,  but  who  only  proves  that  he  has  not  the 
faintest  inkling  of  one  or  the  other.  Incapable  of  adapting 
himself  to  any  state  of  things  whatsoever,  he  first  abuses  the 
state  of  things  in  Norway,  then  that  of  Europe  generally. 
In  no  one  of  his  productions  is  a  single  thought  to  be  met 
with  belonging  to,  or  having  an  active  influence  on,  the 
present  age,  unless  we  bestow  this  honour  on  his  anarchism, 
which  is  explained  by  the  diseased  constitution  of  his  mind, 
and  his  travesties  of  the  least  certain  results  of  investigations 
in  hypnotism  and  telepathy.  He  is  a  skilful  dramatic 
technician,  and  knows  how  to  represent  with  great  poetic 
power  personages  in  the  background,  and  situations  out  of 
the  chief  current  of  the  piece.  This,  however,  is  all  that  a 
conscientious  and  lucid  analysis  can  really  find  in  him.  He 
has  dared  to  speak  of  his  '  moral  ideas,'  and  his  admirers 
glibly  repeat  the  expression.  Ibsen's  moral  ideas !  Any 
reader  of  the  Ibsen  drama,  who  finds  in  them  no  food  for 
laughter,  has  truly  no  sense  of  humour.  He  seems  to  preach 
apostacy,  yet  cannot  free  himself  from  the  religious  ideas 
of  confession,  original  sin,  and  the  Saviour's  act  of  redemption. 
He  sets  up  egoism  and  the  freedom  of  the  individual  from  all 
scruples  as  an  ideal,  yet  hardly  has  anyone  acted  somewhat 
unscrupulously,  but  he  begins  to  whimper  contritely,  and 
continues  until  his  heart,  full  to  suffocation,  has  poured  itself 
out  in  confession ;  while  the  only  persons  with  whom  he 
succeeds  are  women,  who  sacrifice  their  individuality  to  the 
point  of  annihilation  for  the  sake  of  others.  He  extols  every 
offence  against  morality  as  heroism,  while  he  punishes,  with 
nothing  less  than  death,  the  smallest  and  stupidest  love  affair. 
He  uses  the  words  freedom,  progress,  etc.,  as  a  gargle,  and 
in  his  best  works  honours  lying  and  stagnation.  And  all 
these  contradictions  appear  forsooth  not  successively  as 
stations  on  the  road  of  his  development,  but  at  one  and  the 
same  time,  and  side  by  side.  His  French  admirer,  Ehrhard,* 
sees  this  disconcerting  fact,  and  endeavours  as  best  he  can 
to  excuse  it.  His  Norwegian  interpreter,  Henrik  Jaeger,  on 
the  contrary,  asserts  with  the  utmost  placidity  t  that  the 
most  prominent  characteristic  of  Ibsen's  works  is  their  unity 

*  Auguste  Ehrhard,  op.  «/.,  p.  120:  'With  admirable  frankness  Ibsen, 
in  his  latest  works,  points  out  the  abuse  which  may  be  made  of  his  ideas  [!]. 
He  counsels  reformers  to  extreme  prudence,  if  not  to  silence.  As  for  him- 
self, he  ceases  to  excite  the  multitude  to  the  pursuit  of  moral  and  social 
progress  [!]  ;  he  entrenches  himself  in  his  disdainful  pessimism,  and  in 
aristocratic  solitude  enjoys  the  serene  vision  of  future  ages.' 

t  Henrik  Jaeger,  //enri'k  Ibsen  og  haus  Vaerker.  En  Fremstilling  i 
Grundrids,     Christiania,  \Z<^2., passim. 


EGO-MANIA  407 

(Enhed).  The  Frenchman  and  the  Norwegian  were  most 
incautious  in  not  preconcerting,  prior  to  praising  their  great 
man  in  manners  so  divergent.  The  single  discoverable  unity 
in  Ibsen  is  his  faculty  of  distortion.  The  point  in  which  he 
always  resembles  himself  is  his  entire  incapacity  to  elaborate 
a  single  clear  thought,  to  comprehend  a  single  one  of  the 
watchwords  daubed  here  and  there  on  to  his  works,  or  to 
deduce  the  true  conclusions  from  a  single  one  of  his 
premises. 

And  this  malignant,  anti-social  simpleton,  highly  gifted,  it 
must  be  admitted,  in  the  technique  of  the  stage,  they  have  had 
the  audacity  to  try  to  raise  upon  the  shield  as  the  great  world- 
poet  of  the  closing  century.  His  partizans  have  continued  to 
shout,  'Ibsen  is  a  great  poet!'  until  all  stronger  judgments 
have  become  at  least  hesitating,  and  feebler  ones  wholly  sub- 
jugated. In  a  recent  book  on  Simon  Magus,*  there  occurs 
this  pretty  story  :  '  Apsethus,  the  Libyan,  wished  to  become  a 
god.  In  spite,  however,  of  his  most  strenuous  efforts  he  could 
not  succeed  in  satisfying  his  longing.  But,  at  any  rate,  he 
would  make  the  people  believe  that  he  had  become  a  god. 
He  therefore  collected  a  large  number  of  parrots,  in  which 
Libya  abounds,  and  shut  them  all  in  a  cage.  He  kept  them 
so  for  some  time,  and  taught  them  to  say,  "Apsethus  is  a  god." 
When  the  birds  had  learnt  this,  he  opened  the  cage  and  set 
them  free.  And  the  birds  spread  themselves  throughout 
Libya,  so  that  the  words  penetrated  to  the  Greek  settlements. 
And  the  Libyans,  astonished  at  the  voice  of  the  birds,  and  not 
suspecting  the  trick  Apsethus  had  played,  looked  upon  him  as 
a  god.'  In  imitation  of  the  ingenious  Apsethus,  Ibsen  has 
taught  a  few  'comprehensives' — the  Brandes,  Ehrhards,  Jaegers, 
etc. — the  words:  '  Ibsen  is  a  modern!  Ibsen  is  a  poet  of  the 
future  !'  and  the  parrots  have  spread  over  all  the  lands,  and 
are  chattering  with  deafening  din  in  books  and  papers,  '  Ibsen 
is  great !  Ibsen  is  a  modern  spirit!'  and  imbeciles  among  the 
public  murmur  the  cry  after  them,  because  they  hear  it  fre- 
quently repeated,  and  because,  on  such  as  they,  every  word 
uttered  with  emphasis  and  assurance  makes  an  impression. 

It  would  certainl}^  be  a  proof  of  superficiality  to  believe  that 
the  audacity  of  his  Corybantes  alone  explains  the  high  place 
to  which  Ibsen  has  been  fraudulently  elevated.  Without  ques- 
tion he  possesses  characteristics  by  which  he  could  not  but  act 
upon  his  contemporaries. 

Firstly,  we  have  his  vague  phrases  and  indefinite  incidental 

hints  concerning    '  the  great  epoch  in  which  we  live,'  '  the  new 

era  about  to  dawn,'  '  freedom,'  '  progress,'  etc.     These  phrases 

were   bound   to   please    all  dreamers  and  drivellers,  for  they 

*  G.  R.  S.  Mead,  Simon  Magus.     London,  1892. 


4o8  DEGENERATION 

give  free  scope  to  any  interpretation,  and,  in  particular,  allow 
the  presumption  that  their  author  is  possessed  of  modernity 
and  a  bold  spirit  of  progress.  They  are  not  discouraged  by 
the  fact  that  Ibsen  himself  makes  cruel  sport  of  these  '  com- 
prehensives,'  when,  in  The  Wild  Duck,  he  makes  Relling 
(p.  361)  use  the  word  '  demoniac,'  while  admitting  it  to  be 
wholly  meaningless,  just  as  the  poet  himself  employs  his  own 
bunkum  about  progress  and  freedom.  They  are  '  comprehen- 
sives  '  precisely  because  they  interpret  every  passage  according 
to  their  own  sweet  will. 

Then  there  is  Ibsen's  doctrine  of  the  right  of  the  individual 
to  live  in  accordance  with  his  own  law.  Is  this  really  his 
doctrine  ?  This  must  be  denied  when,  after  struggling  through 
his  countless  contradictions  and  self-refutations,  we  see  that 
he  treats  with  peculiar  affection  the  sacrificial  lambs,  who  are  all 
negation  of  their  own  *  I,'  all  suppression  of  their  most  natural 
impulses,  all  neighbourly  love  and  consideration  for  others. 
In  any  case,  his  apostles  have  brought  forward  anarchistic 
individualism  as  the  central  doctrine  of  his  drama.  Ehrhard* 
sums  up  this  doctrine  in  these  words :  '  The  revolt  of  the 
individual  against  society.  In  other  words,  Ibsen  is  the 
apostle  of  moral  autonomy  {autonomie  morale).'  Now  such  a 
doctrine  is  surely  well  fitted  to  cause  ravages  among  the  intel- 
lectually indolent  or  intellectually  incapable. 

Ehrhard  dares  to  use  the  expression  '  moral  autonomy.'  In 
the  name  of  this  fine  principle  Ibsen's  critical  heralds  persuade 
the  youth  who  gather  round  him  that  they  have  the  right  to 
'  live  out  their  lives,'  and  they  smile  approvingly  when  their 
auditors  understand  by  this  term  the  right  to  yield  to  their 
basest  instincts  and  to  free  themselves  from  all  discipline. 
As  the  scoundrels  in  Mediterranean  ports  do  with  well- 
dressed  travellers,  they  whisper  in  the  ear  of  their  public, 
'  Amuse  yourselves  !  Enjoy  yourselves  !  Come  with  me  ;  I 
will  show  you  the  way  !'  But  to  confound  '  moral  autonomy  ' 
with  absence  of  restraint  is,  on  the  part  of  their  faith,  a  mon- 
strous error,  and  in  the  corrupters  of  youth,  hoping  for  the  pay 
of  procuration,  an  infamous  deception. 

These  two  notions  are  not  only  not  synonymous,  they  are 
diametrically  opposed  and  mutually  exclusive.  Liberty  of  the 
individual  !  The  right  to  autonomy  !  The  Ego  its  own  legis- 
lator !  Who  is  this  '  I '  that  is  to  make  laws  for  itself?  Who 
is  this  *  Self  for  whom  Ibsen  demands  the  right  of  autonomy  ? 
Who  is  this  free  individual  ?  That  the  entire  notion  of  a  Self 
opposed  to  the  rest  of  the  world  as  something  alien  and 
exclusive  is  an  illusion  of  consciousness,  we  have  already  seen 
in  the  chapter  on  the  '  Psychology  of  Ego-mania,'  and  I  need 
*  Ehrhard,  o/>.  cit.y  p.  94. 


EGO-MANIA  409 

not,  therefore,  dwell  again  on  the  subject  in  this  place.  We 
know  that  man,  like  every  other  complex  and  highly  developed 
living  being,  is  a  society  or  state,  of  simpler,  and  of  simplest, 
living  beings,  of  cells  and  cell-systems,  or  organs,  all  having 
their  own  functions  and  wants.  In  the  course  of  the  develop- 
ment of  life  on  earth  they  have  become  associated,  and  have 
undergone  changes,  in  order  to  be  able  to  perform  higher 
functions  than  are  possible  to  the  simple  cell  and  primitive 
agglomeration  of  cells.  The  highest  function  of  life  yet  known 
to  us  is  clear  consciousness  ;  the  most  elevated  content  of  con- 
sciousness is  knowledge  ;  and  the  most  obvious  and  immediate 
aim  of  knowledge  is  constantly  to  procure  better  conditions  of 
life  for  the  organism,  hence  to  preserve  its  existence  as  long  as 
possible,  and  to  fill  it  with  the  greatest  possible  number  of 
pleasurable  sensations.  In  order  that  the  collective  organism 
may  be  able  to  perform  its  task,  its  constituent  parts  are  bound 
to  submit  to  a  severe  hierarchical  order.  Anarchy  in  its  in- 
terior is  disease,  and  leads  rapidly  to  death.  The  single  cell 
executes  its  chemical  work  of  decomposition  and  of  integration 
without  troubling  itself  about  aught  else.  It  labours  almost 
for  itself  alone.  Its  consciousness  is  the  most  limited  con- 
ceivable ;  it  has  hardly  any  prevision  ;  its  own  power  of 
adaptation  is  so  minute  that  if  a  cell  is  in  the  smallest  degree 
less  well  nourished  than  its  neighbour,  it  cannot  hold  its 
ground  against  the  latter,  and  is  immediately  devoured  by  it.* 
The  differentiated  cell-group,  or  organ,  already  possesses  a 
wider  consciousness,  whose  seat  is  its  own  nerve-ganglia ;  its 
function  is  more  complex,  and  no  longer  operates  wholly,  or 
even  chiefly,  for  its  own  benefit,  but  for  that  of  the  collective 
organism  ;  it  also  has  already,  I  might  say,  a  constitutional 
influence  on  the  direction  of  the  affairs  of  the  whole  organism, 
asserting  itself  in  the  power  of  the  organ  to  suggest  to  con- 
sciousness presentations  prompting  the  will  to  acts.  The  most 
exalted  organ,  however,  the  condensatipn  of  all  the  other 
organs,  is  the  gray  cerebral  cortex.  It  is  the  seat  of  clear 
consciousness.  It  works  least  of  all  for  itself,  most  of  all  for 
the  commonwealth — i.e.,  for  the  whole  organism.  It  is  the 
government  of  the  State.  To  it  come  all  reports  from  the 
interior  as  well  as  the  exterior ;  it  has  to  find  its  way  in  the 
midst  of  all  complications  ;  it  has  to  exercise  foresight,  and  to 
take  into  consideration  not  only  the  immediate  effect  of  an  act, 

*  W.  Roux,  Ueber  den  Kampf  der  Theile  des  Organis7nus.  Leipzig,  1881. 
Since  the  appearance  of  Roux's  work,  the  theory  of  phagocytose,  or  the 
digestion  of  weaker  cells  by  the  stronger,  has  been  considerably  extended. 
Tliis,  however,  is  not  the  place  to  cite  the  numerous  communications  bearing 
on  this  subject  which  have  appeared  in  the  Zeitschrift  fiir  wissenschaftliche 
Zoologie,  in  Virchow's  Arc/iivs,  in  the  Biologische  Centralblatt,  in  the 
Zoologische  Jahrbiicher,  etc. 


4IO  DEGENERATION 

but  also  the  more  remote  consequences  for  the  commonwealth. 
When,  therefore,  it  is  a  question  of  the  '  I,'  the  '  Self,'  the 
*  Individual,'  it  cannot  be  any  subordinate  part  of  the  organism 
which  is  meant,  such  as  the  little  toe  or  the  rectum,  but  only 
the  gray  cerebral  cortex.  To  it  certainly  belongs  the  right 
and  duty  of  directing  the  individual  and  of  prescribing  its  law. 
It  is  consciousness  itself.  But  how  does  consciousness  form 
its  judgments  and  its  decisions  ?  It  forms  them  from  repre- 
sentations awakened  in  it  by  excitations  proceeding  from  the 
internal  organs  and  from  the  senses.  If  consciousness  allows 
itself  to  be  directed  solely  by  the  organic  excitations,  it  seeks 
to  gratify  its  momentary  appetites,  on  the  spot,  at  the  cost  of 
well-being,  it  injures  an  organ  by  favouring  the  need  of 
another,  and  it  neglects  to  take  into  consideration  circum- 
stances of  the  external  world  which  must  be  dealt  with  in  the 
interest  of  the  whole  organism.  Let  me  give  some  quite 
simple  illustrations.  A  man  is  swimming  under  water.  His 
cells  know  nothing  of  it,  and  do  not  trouble  themselves  about 
it.  They  quietly  absorb  from  the  blood  the  oxygen  which 
they  need  at  the  moment,  and  set  free,  in  exchange,  carbonic 
dioxide.  The  decomposed  blood  excites  the  medulla  oblon- 
gata, and  the  latter  impetuously  demands  a  movement  of 
inspiration.  Were  the  gray  cerebral  cortex  to  yield  to  the 
perfectly  justifiable  demand  of  one  organ,  and  allow  an  impulse 
to  inspire  to  proceed  to  the  muscles  concerned,  the  consequence 
would  be  the  filling  of  the  lungs  with  water,  and  death  of  the 
entire  organism  in  consequence.  Hence  consciousness  does 
not  obey  the  demand  of  the  medulla  oblongata,  and,  instead  of 
sending  motor  impulses  to  the  intercostal  muscles  and  those 
of  the  diaphragm,  communicates  them  to  the  muscles  of  the 
arms  and  legs  ;  instead  of  breathing  under  water,  the  swimmer 
emerges  at  the  surface.  Another  instance.  A  typhoid  con- 
valescent feels  ragingly  hungry.  Were  he  to  yield  to  this 
desire,  he  might  give  himself  a  momentary  satisfaction,  but 
twenty-four  hours  later  he  would  probably  die  from  perforation 
of  the  intestines.  Hence  his  consciousness  resists  the  desire 
of  his  organs  for  the  benefit  of  the  whole  organism.  The  cases 
are,  of  course,  generally  much  more  complex.  But  it  is  always 
the  task  of  consciousness  to  test  the  stimuli  which  it  receives 
from  the  depths  of  the  organs,  to  comprise  in  the  motor  images 
which  they  excite  all  its  earlier  experiences,  its  knowledge,  the 
directions  given  by  the  external  world,  and  to  disregard  the 
stimuli  if  the  judgments  opposed  to  them  are  more  powerful 
than  they. 

Even  a  perfectly  healthy  organism  quickly  goes  to  rack  and 
ruin  if  the  inhibitive  activity  of  consciousness  is  not  exercised, 
and  if,  through  this  want  of  exercise,  its  inhibitive  strength 


EGO-MANIA  .  411 

becomes  atrophied.  Caesarian  madness*  is  nothing  but  the 
consequence  of  the  systematic  indulgence  by  consciousness 
of  every  demand  of  the .  organs.  If,  however,  the  organism 
is  not  perfectly  healthy ;  if  it  is  degenerate,  its  ruin  is  much 
more  speedy  and  certain  v^hen  it  obeys  the  urging  of  its 
organs,  for  in  such  a  case  these  organs  are  suffering  from 
perversions ;  they  exact  satisfactions,  not  only  pernicious  in 
their  remote  consequences  to  the  whole  organism,  but  im- 
mediately so  to  the  organs  themselves. 

When,  therefore,  the  '  I '  is  spoken  of,  which  is  to  have  the 
right  to  dispose  of  itself,  only  the  conscious  '  Ego '  can  be 
meant,  the  pondering,  remembering,  observing,  comparing 
intellect,  not,  however,  the  sub-'  Egos  ' — unconnected,  and 
for  the  most  part  at  strife  with  each  other — which  are  included 
in  sub-consciousness. t  The  individual  is  the  judging,  not  the 
instinctive,  human  being.  Liberty  is  the  capacity  of  conscious- 
ness to  derive  excitations,  not  only  from  the  stimuli  of  the 
organs,  but  from  those  of  the  senses,  and  from  original 
memory-images.  Ibsen's  liberty  is  the  most  abject,  and  always 
suicidal,J  slavery.  It  is  the  subjugation  of  judgment  to 
instinct,  and  the  revolt  of  some  single  organ  against  the 
domination  of  that  power,  which  has  to  watch  over  the  well- 
being  of  the  whole  organism.  Even  so  individualistic  a 
philosopher  as  Herbert  Spencer  §  says:  'To  become  fitted 
for  the  social  state,  it  is  necessary  that  the  man  .  .  .  should 
possess  the  energy  capable  of  renouncing  a  small  enjoyment 
of  the  moment,  in  order  to  obtain  a  greater  one  in  the  future.' 
A  healthy  man  in  the  full  vigour  of  intellect  cannot  sacrifice 
his  judgment.  The  sacrifizin  dell'  intellctto  is  the  only  one  he 
cannot  afford.  If  law  and  custom  impose  upon  him  acts 
which  he  recognises  as  absurd  because  they  defeat  their  end, 
.not  only  will  he  have  the  right,  but  it  will  be  his  duty,  to 
defend  reason  against  nonsense,  and  knowledge  against  error. 

*  Jacoby,  La  Folie  de  Chars.     Paris,  1880. 

•j-  Alfred  Binet,  Les  Alierations  de  la  PersonnalitS,  Paris,  1892,  p.  23,  com- 
municates the  case  (observed  by  Bourru  and  Biirot,  and  often  cited)  of 
Louis  B.,  who  united  in  himself  six  different  personalities — six  '  I's  '  having 
not  the  slightest  knowledge  of  each  other,  each  possessing  another  character, 
another  memory,  other  peculiarities  of  feeling  and  movement,  etc. 

+  '  Suicidal'  is  here  not  a  mere  rhetorical  expression.  If  the  tyrannical 
power  of  instinct  always  ends  by  leading  the  individual  in  the  long-run  to 
his  destruction,  it  sometimes  does  this  directly.  Instinct,  namely,  may  have 
for  its  direct  object  suicide  or  self-mutilation  ;  and  the  '  free  '  man  obeying 
his  instinct  has  then  the  'liberty'  of  mutilating  or  killing  himself,  although 
that  so  little  tallies  with  his  real  wish  that  he  seeks  in  others  a  protec- 
tion from  himself.  See  Dr.  R.  von  Krafft-Ebing,  Lehrbuch  der  gericht- 
lichen  Psychopathologie.  Dritte  umgearbeitete  Auflage.  Stuttgart,  1892, 
p.  3ir. 

§  Herbert  Spencer,  The  hidtvtdual  verstis  the  State.     London,  1884. 


412  DEGENERATION 

But  his  revolt  will  always  be  in  the  name  of  judgment,  not 
in  the  name  of  instinct. 

All  this  philosophy  of  self-restraint  can,  it  is  true,  be  preached 
to  healthy  human  beings  only.  It  has  no  application  to 
degenerates.  Their  defective  brain  and  nervous  system  are 
not  in  a  state  to  respond  to  its  demands.  The  processes 
within  their  organs  are  morbidly  intensified.  Hence  the  latter 
send  particularly  powerful  stimuli  to  consciousness.  The 
sensory  nerves  conduct  badly.  The  memory-images  in  the 
brain  are  faint.  Perceptions  of  the  external  world,  repre- 
sentations of  anterior  experiences,  are,  therefore,  non-existent 
or  too  feeble  to  subdue  the  stimulus  originating  in  the  organs. 
Such  persons  can  do  nought  else  but  follow  their  desires  and 
impulsions.  They  are  the  *  instinctivists  '  and  '  impulsivists  ' 
of  mental  therapeutics.  To  this  species  belong  the  Noras, 
Ellidas,  Rebeccas,  Stockmanns,  Brands,  etc.  This  company, 
being  dangerous  to  themselves  and  to  others,  require  to  be 
put  under  the  guardianship  of  rational  men,  or,  better  still, 
in  lunatic  asylums.  Such  must  be  the  answer  to  those  fools 
or  charlatans  who  vaunt  Ibsen's  figures  as  '  free  men '  and 
*  strong  personalities,'  and  with  the  sweet-sounding  tones  of 
a  Pied  Piper's  air  on  '  self-disposal,'  '  moral  independence,' 
and  '  living  life  out,'  attract  children  devoid  of  judgment 
heaven  knows  whither,  but  in  any  case  to  their  ruin. 

The  third  feature  of  Ibsen's  drama  accounting  for  his  success 
is  the  light  in  which  he  shows  woman.  '  Women  are  the 
pillars  of  society,'  he  makes  Bernick  say  (in  The  Pillars  of 
Society,  p.  114).  With  Ibsen  woman  has  no  duties  and  all 
rights.  The  tie  of  marriage  does  not  bind  her.  She  runs 
away  when  she  longs  for  liberty,  or  when  she  believes  she 
has  cause  of  complaint  against  her  husband,  or  when  he 
pleases  her  a  little  less  than  another  man.  The  man  who 
plays  the  Joseph,  and  does  not  comply  with  the  will  of 
Madame  Potiphar,  does  not  draw  on  himself  the  customary 
ridicule  ;  he  is  roundly  pronounced  a  criminal  (Ghosts,  p.  158)  : 

Pastor  Manders.  It  was  my  greatest  victory,  Helen — the  victory  over 
myself. 

Mrs.  Alving.  It  was  a  crime  against  us  both. 

Woman  is  always  the  clever,  strong,  courageous  being; 
man  always  the  simpleton  and  coward.  In  every  encounter 
the  wife  is  victorious,  and  the  man  flattened  out  like  a  pancake. 
Woman  need  live  for  herself  alone.  With  Ibsen  she  has  even 
overcome  her  most  primitive  instinct — that  of  motherhood — 
and  abandons  her  brood  without  twitching  an  eyelid  when 
the  caprice  seizes  her  to  seek  satisfactions  elsewhere.  Such 
abject  adoration  of  woman — a  pendant  to  Wagner's  woman- 
idolatry — such  unqualified  approval  of  all  feminine  depravities, 


EGO-MANIA  413 

was  bound  to  secure  the  applause  of  those  women  who  in 
the  viragoes  of  Ibsen's  drama — hysterical,  nymphomaniacal, 
perverted  in  maternal  instinct* — recognise  either  their  own 
portrait  or  the  ideal  of  development  of  their  degenerate 
imagination.  Women  of  this  species  find,  as  a  matter  of 
fact,  all  discipline  intolerable.  They  are  by  birth  les  femnies 
de  ruisseati  of  Dumas  fils.  They  are  not  fit  for  marriage — ■ 
for  European  marriage  with  one  man  only.  Promiscuous 
sexual  intercourse  and  prostitution  are  their  most  deeply- 
seated  instincts,  according  to  Ferrero-f*  the  atavistic  form  of 
degeneration  in  women,  and  they  are  grateful  to  Ibsen  for 
having  catalogued,  under  the  fine  designations  of  '  The  struggle 
of  woman  for  moral  independence'  and  'The  right  of  woman 
to  assert  her  own  personality,'  those  propensities  to  which 
opprobrious  names  are  usually  given. 

In  his  fiercely  travestied  exaggerations  of  Ibsen's  doctrines, 
entitled  Der  Vater,  Grdfin  Julie,  Gldiibiger,  etc.,  poor  Grind- 
berg,  whose  brain  is  equally  deranged,  but  who  possesses  great 
creative  power,  goes  to  the  greatest  pains  to  show  the  absurdity 
of  Ibsen's  notions  on  the  nature  of  woman,  her  rights,  her 
relations  to  man.  His  method,  however,  is  a  false  one.  He 
will  never  convince  Ibsen  by  rational  arguments  that  his 
doctrines  are  foolish,  for  they  do  not  spring  from  his  reason, 
but  from  his  unconscious  instincts.  His  figures  of  women  and 
their  destinies  are  the  poetical  expression  of  that  sexual  per- 
version of  degenerates  called  by  Krafft-Ebing  *  masochism.' J 

*  Dr.  Ph.  Boileau  de  Castelnau,  '  Misop^die  ou  Lesion  de  I'Amour  de  la 
Progeniture'  {Annales  medico-psychologiques,  30  s^rie,  7"  volume,  p.  553). 
In  this  work  the  author  communicates  twelve  observations,  in  which  the 
natural  feeling  of  the  mother  for  her  children  was  transformed  by  disease 
into  hatred. 

t  G.  Ferrero,  '  L'Atavisme  de  la  Prostitution,'  Revue  scientifiqiie^  50^ 
volume,  p.  136. 

%  R.  von  Krafft-Ebing,  Psychopathia  sexualis,  etc.,  "j^^  Auflage,  p.  89  (the 
third  edition  of  this  book,  from  which  I  have  made  my  previous  citations, 
contains  nothing  on  masochism),  and  Neue  Forschungeft  auf  dem  Gebiete 
der  Psychopathia  sexualis  eine  medicinisch-psychologische  Studie,  Zweite  um- 
gearbeitete  und  vermehrte  Auflage,  Stuttgart,  1891,  p.  i  ff.  Krafft-Ebing 
gives  this  explanation  of  his  word  (p.  i  et  seq.)  :  '  By  masochism  I  understand 
a  peculiar  perversion  of  the  psychic  vita  sexualis,  consisting  in  this,  that  the 
individual  seized  with  it  is  dominated  in  his  sexual  feeling  and  thought  by 
the  idea  that  he  is  wholly  and  unconditionally  subjected  to  the  will  of  a 
person  of  the  opposite  sex,  who  treats  him  imperiously,  humiUates  and 
maltreats  him.'  The  word  is  formed  from  the  name  Sacher-Masoch,  because 
'  his  writings  delineate  exactly  typical  pictures  of  the  perverted  psychic  life 
of  men  of  this  kind '  {Neue  Forsc'htmgen,  etc.,  p.  2,7)-  I  do  not  look  upon  this 
designation  as  a  happy  one.  Krafft-Ebing  himself  shows  that  Zola  and, 
long  before  him,  Rousseau  (he  might  have  added  Balzac  in  Baron  Hulot  in 
Parents  pauvres,  part  i.  :  La  cousine  Bette)  have  embodied  this  condition 
quite  as  clearly  as  Sacher-Masoch.  Hence  I  prefer  the  designation  '  pas- 
sivism,' proposed  by  Dimitry  Stefanowsky,  See  Archives  de  V Anthropologie 
criminelle,  1892,  p.  294. 


414  DEGENERATION 

Masochism  is  a  sub-species  of  '  contrary  sexual  sensation.' 
The  man  affected  by  this  perversion  feels  himself,  as  regards 
woman,  to  be  the  weaker  party  ;  as  the  one  standing  in  need 
of  protection ;  as  the  slave  who  rolls  on  the  ground,  compelled 
to  obey  the  behests  of  his  mistress,  and  finding  his  happiness 
in  obedience.  It  is  the  inversion  of  the  healthy  and  natural 
relation  between  the  sexes.  In  Sacher-Masoch  imperious 
and  triumphant  woman  wields  the  knout  ;  in  Ibsen  she  exacts 
confessions,  inflicts  inflammatory  reprimands,  and  leaves  in  a 
flare  of  Bengal  lights.  In  essence,  Ibsen's  heroines  are  the 
same  as  Sacher-Masoch's,  though  the  expression  of  feminine 
superiority  is  a  little  less  brutal.  It  is  remarkable  that  the 
women  who  exult  over  Ibsen's  Nora-types  are  not  shocked 
by  the  Hedwigs,  Miss  Tesmans,  and  other  womanly  embodi- 
ments of  sacrifice,  in  whom  the  highly  contradictory  thoughts 
and  feelings  of  the  confused  mystic  come  to  Hght.  But  it  has 
been  psychologically  -established  that  human  beings  overlook 
what  is  in  dissonance  with  their  own  propinquities,  and  dwell 
on  that  only  which  is  in  harmony  with  them. 

Ibsen's  leminine  clientele  is,  moreover,  not  composed  merely 
of  hysterical  and  degenerate  characters,  but  includes  also  those 
women  who  are  leading  an  unhappy  married  life,  or  believe 
themselves  misunderstood,  or  suffer  from  the  discontent  and 
inner  void  resulting  from  insufficient  occupation.  Clear  think- 
ing is  not  the  most  prominent  quality  of  this  species  of  woman. 
Otherwise  they  would  not  have  found  their  advocate  in  Ibsen. 
Ibsen  is  not  their  friend.  No  one  is  who,  as  long  as  the 
present  order  of  society  exists,  attacks  the  institution  of 
marriage. 

A  serious  and  healthy  reformer  will  contend  for  the  principle 
that  marriage  should  acquire  a  moral  and  emotional  import, 
and  not  remain  a  lying  form.  He  will  condemn  the  marriage 
for  interest,  a  dowry  or  business  marriage  ;  he  will  brand  as  a 
crime  the  action  of  married  couples  who  feel  for  some  other 
human  being  a  strong,  true  love,  tested  by  time  and  struggle,  and 
yet  remain  together  in  a  cowardly  pseudo-union,  deceiving  and 
contaminating  each  other,  instead  of  honourably  separatmg  and 
contracting  genuine  connections  elsewhere ;  he  will  demand 
that  marriage  be  based  on  reciprocal  inclination,  maintained  by 
confidence,  respect,  and  gratitude,  consolidated  by  considera- 
tion for  the  offspring ;  but  he  will  guard  himself  from  saying 
anything  against  marriage  itself,  this  bulwark  of  the  relations 
between  the  sexes  afforded  by  definite,  permanent  duty. 
Marriage  is  a  high  advance  from  the  free  copulation 
of  savages.  To  abandon  it  and  return  to  primitive  promis- 
cuity would  be  the  most  profound  atavism  of  degeneracy. 
Marriage,  moreover,  was  not  instituted  for  the  man,  but  for 


EGO-MANIA  415 

the  woman  and  the  child.  It  is  a  protective  social  institution 
for  the  benefit  of  the  weaker  part.  Man  has  not  yet  con- 
quered and  humanized  his  polygamous  animal  instincts  to  the 
same  extent  as  woman.  It  would  for  the  most  part  be  quite 
agreeable  to  him  to  exchange  the  woman  he  possesses  for  a 
new  one.  Departures  a  la  Nora  are  as  a  rule  not  of  a  nature 
to  frighten  him.  He  could  open  the  door  very  wide  for  Nora, 
and  bestow  on  her  his  parting  benediction  with  much  pleasure. 
Were  it  once  the  law  and  custom  in  a  society  where  each 
was  forced  to  care  for  himself  alone  (and  needed  only  to 
trouble  himself  about  the  offspring  of  others,  when  it  was  a 
question  of  orphan,  abandoned,  or  begging  children)  that  man 
and  wife  should  separate  as  soon  as  they  ceased  to  be  agree- 
able to  each  other,  it  would  be  the  men  and  not  the  women 
who  would  first  make  use  of  the  new  liberty.  Departures  a  la 
Nora  are  perhaps  without  danger  for  rich  wives,  or  those 
eminently  capable  of  acquiring  means  of  support,  and  hence 
pecuniarily  independent.  Such,  however,  in  present  society 
constitute  a  minute  minority.  Under  Ibsen's  code  of  morals 
the  vast  majority  of  wives  would  have  everything  to  lose. 
The  severe  discipline  of  matrimony  is  their  bulwark.  It 
obliges  the  man  to  take  care  of  the  children  and  of  the  wife 
as  she  declines  in  years.  Hence  it  should  be  the  true  duty 
of  rational  wives  to  declare  Ibsen  infamous,  and  to  revolt 
against  Ibsenism,  which  criminally  threatens  them  and  their 
rights.  Only  through  error  can  women  of  spirit  and  indis- 
putable morality  join  the  ranks  of  Ibsen's  followers.  It  is 
necessary  to  enlighten  them  concerning  the  range  of  his 
doctrines,  and  in  particular  concerning  their  effect  on  the  posi- 
tion of  woman,  so  that  they  may  abandon  a  company  which  can 
never  be  their  own.  May  he  remain  surrounded  by  those  only 
who  are  spirit  of  his  spirit,  that  is  to  say,  by  hysterical  women 
and  masculine  masochists,  who,  with  Ehrhard,'^  believe  that 
'sound  common-sense  and  optimism  are  the  two  destructive 
principles  of  all  poetry '  1 


CHAPTER  V. 

FRIEDRICH    NIETZSCHE. 

As  in  Ibsen  ego-mania  has  found  its  poet,  so  in  Nietzsche  it 
has  found  its  philosopher.  The  deification  of  filth  by  the  Par- 
nassians with  ink,  paint,  and  clay ;  the  censing  among  the 
Diabolists  and  Decadents  of  licentiousness,  disease,  and 
corruption ;    the   glorification,   by   Ibsen,  of  the   person   who 

*  Ehrhard,  op.  cit.,  p.  88 


4i6  DEGENERATION 

*  wills,'  is  'free'  and  'wholly  himself — of  all  this  Neitzsche 
supplies  the  theory,  or  something  which  proclaims  itself  as 
such.  We  may  remark,  in  passing,  that  this  has  ever  been 
the  task  of  philosophy.  It  plays  in  the  race  the  same  role  as 
consciousness  in  the  individual.  Consciousness  has  the  thank- 
less task  of  discovering  rational  and  elucidatory  grounds  for  the 
explanation  of  the  impulses  and  acts  springing  up  in  sub- 
consciousness. In  the  same  way  philosophy  endeavours  to 
find  formulae  of  apparent  profundity  for  the  peculiarities  of 
feeling,  thought  and  deed,  having  their  roots  in  the  history  of 
politics  and  civilization — in  climatic  and  economic  conditions — 
and  to  fit  them  with  a  sort  of  uniform  of  logic.  The  race  lives 
on,  conformably  with  the  historical  necessity  of  its  evolution, 
not  troubling  itself  about  a  theory  of  its  peculiarities ;  and 
philosophy  hobbles  busily  after  it,  gathers  with  more  or  less 
regularity  into  its  album  the  scattered  features  of  racial 
character,  and  the  manifestations  of  its  health  and  disease ; 
methodically  provides  this  album  with  a  title,  paging,  and  full 
stop,  then  places  it  with  a  contented  air  in  the  library,  among 
the  systems  of  the  same  regulation  size.  Genuine  truths,  real, 
apposite  explanations — these  are  not  contained  in  philosophical 
systems.  But  they  furnish  instructive  evidence  of  the  efforts 
of  the  racial  consciousness  to  supply  reason,  skilfully  or  clumsily, 
with  the  excuses  it  demands  for  the  unconscious  impulses  of  the 
race  during  a  given  period  of  time. 

From  the  first  to  the  last  page  of  Nietzsche's  writings  the 
careful  reader  seems  to  hear  a  madman,  with  flashing  eyes, 
wild  gestures,  and  foaming  mouth,  spouting  forth  deafening 
bombast ;  and  through  it  all,  now  breaking  out  into  frenzied 
laughter,  now  sputtering  expressions  of  filthy  abuse  and  in- 
vective, now  skipping  about  in  a  giddily  agile  dance,  and  now 
bursting  upon  the  auditors  with  threatening  mien  and  clenched 
fists.  So  far  as  any  meaning  at  all  can  be  extracted  from 
the  endless  stream  of  phrases,  it  shows,  as  its  fundamental 
elements,  a  series  of  constantly  reiterated  delirious  ideas, 
having  their  source  in  illusions  of  sense  and  diseased  organic 
processes,  which  will  be  pointed  out  in  the  course  of  this 
chapter.  Here  and  there  emerges  a  distinct  idea,  which,  as  is 
always  the  case  with  the  insane,  assumes  the  form  of  an 
imperious  assertion,  a  sort  of  despotic  command.  Nietzsche ' 
never  tries  to  argue.  If  the  thought  of  the  possibility  of  an 
objection  arises  in  his  mind,  he  treats  it  lightly,  or  sneers  at  it, 
or  curtly  and  rudely  decrees,  '  That  is  false !'  ('  How  much 
more  rational  is  that  .  .  .  theory,  for  example,  represented  by 
Herbert  Spencer  !  .  .  .  According  to  this  theory,  good  is  that 
which  has  hitherto  always  proved  itself  to  be  useful,  so  that  it 
may  be  estimated  as  valuable  in  the  highest  degree,  as  valuable 


EGO-MANIA  417 

in  itself.  Although  this  mode  of  explanation  is  also  false,  the 
explanation  itself  is  at  least  rational  and  psychologically 
tenable.' — Zxir  Genealogie  der  Moral,  2  Aufl.,  p.  5.  'This  mode  of 
explanation  is  also  false.'  Full-stop !  Why  is  it  false  ?  Wherein 
is  it  false  ?  Because  Nietzsche  so  orders  it.  The  reader  has 
no  right  to  inquire  further.)  For  that  matter,  he  himself  con- 
tradicts almost  every  one  of  his  violently  dictatorial  dogmas. 
He  first  asserts  something  and  then  its  opposite,  and  both  with 
equal  vehemence,  most  frequently  in  the  same  book,  often  on 
the  same  page.  Now  and  then  he  becomes  conscious  of  the 
self-contradiction,  and  then  he  pretends  to  have  been  amusing 
himself  and  making  sport  of  the  reader.  ('  It  is  difficult  to  be 
understood,  especially  when  one  thinks  and  lives  gangasroto- 
gati,  among  plain  men  who  think  and  live  otherwise — in  other 
words,  kromagati,  or  under  the  most  favourable  circumstances, 
among  mandeigati,  who  "  have  the  frog's  mode  of  progres- 
sion " — I  just  do  all  I  can  to  make  myself  hard  to  understand. 
.  .  .  But  with  regard  to  the  "good  friends"  .  .  .  it  is  well 
to  accord  them  in  advance  room  for  the  play  and  exercise  of 
misconception  ;  in  this  way  one  has  still  something  to  laugh 
at — or  wholly  to  abolish  these  good  friends — and  still  laugh  !' — 
Jenseits  von  Gilt  und  Bose,  2  Aufl.,  p.  38.  Similarly  on  p.  51  : 
'  All  that  is  profound  loves  the  mask ;  the  most  profound 
things  even  hate  imagery,  and  parable.  Should  not  contrast 
rather  be  the  right  disguise  in  which  the  shamefacedness  of  a 
god  might  walk  abroad  ?') 

The  nature  of  the  individual  dogmatic  assertions  is  very 
characteristic.  First  of  all  it  is  essential  to  become  habituated 
to  Nietzsche's  style.  This  is,  I  admit,  unnecessary  for  the 
alienist.  To  him  this  sort  of  style  is  well  known  and  familiar. 
He  frequently  reads  writings  (it  is  true,  as  a  rule,  unprinted) 
of  a  similar  order  of  thought  and  diction,  and  he  reads  them, 
not  for  his  pleasure,  but  that  he  may  prescribe  the  confinement 
of  the  author  in  an  asylum.  The  unprofessional  reader,  on  the 
contrary,  is  easily  confused  by  the  tumult  of  phrases.  Once, 
however,  he  has  found  his  way,  once  he  has  acquired  some 
practice  in  discerning  the  actual  theme  among  the  drums-and- 
fifes  of  this  ear-splitting,  merry-go-round  music,  and,  in  the 
hailstorm  of  rattling  words,  that  render  clear  vision  almost 
impossible,  has  learned  to  perceive  the  fundamental  thought, 
he  at  once  observes  that  Nietzsche's  assertions  are  either 
commonplaces,  tricked  out  like  Indian  caciques  with  feather- 
crown,  nose-ring,  and  tattooing  (and  of  so  mean  a  kind  that  a 
high-school  girl  would  be  ashamed  to  make  use  of  them  in 
a  composition-exercise) ;  or  bellowing  insanity,  rambling  far 
beyond  the  range  of  rational  examination  and  refutation.  I 
27 


4i8  DEGENERATION 

will  give  only  one  or  two  examples  of  each  kind  among  the 
thousands  that  exist : 

Also  sprach  Zaratkustra*  ('Thus  spake  Zoroaster'),  3  Theil,  p.  g : 
*  We  halted  just  by  a  gateway.  *'  See  this  gateway,  dwarf" — I 
said  again — "  it  has  two  faces.  Two  roads  meet  here  ;  no 
one  has  yet  travelled  to  their  end.  This  long  road  behind — it 
lasts  an  eternity.  And  that  long  road  in  front — that  is  another 
eternity.  They  contradict  each  other,  these  roads  ;  they  offend 
each  other ;  and  it  is  here  at  this  gateway  that  they  meet. 
The  name  of  the  gateway  is  inscribed  above,  "  Now."  But  if 
one  continues  to  follow  one  of  them  further,  and  ever  further, 
and  ever  further,  believest  thou,  dwarf,  that  these  roads 
eternally  contradict  each  other  ?"  ' 

Blow  away  the  lather  from  these  phrases.  What  do  they 
really  say  ?  The  fleeting  instant  of  the  present  is  the  point  of 
contact  of  the  past  and  the  future.  Can  one  call  this  self- 
evident  fact  a  thought  ? 

Also  sprach  Zarathustra,  4  Theil,  p.  124  ff.  :  'The  world  is 
deep,  and  deeper  than  the  day  thinks  it.  Forbear  !  forbear ! 
I  am  too  pure  for  thee.  Disturb  me  not  !  Has  my  world  not 
become  exactly  perfect?  My  flesh  is  too  pure  for  thy  hands. 
Forbear,  thou  dull  doltish  and  obtuse  day  !  Is  not  the  mid- 
night clearer  ?  The  purest  are  to  be  lords  of  earth,  the  most 
unknown,  the  strongest,  the  souls  of  midnight,  who  are  clearer 
and  deeper  than  each  day.  .  .  .  My  sorrow,  my  happiness, 
are  deep,  thou  strange  day  ;  but  yet  am  I  no  God,  no  Hell  of 
God  :  deep  is  their  woe.  God's  woe  is  deeper,  thou  strange 
World  !  Grasp  at  God's  woe,  not  at  me  1  What  am  I !  A 
drunken  sweet  lyre — a  lyre  of  midnight,  a  singing  frog,  under- 
stood by  none,  but  who  must  speak  before  the  deaf,  O  higher 
men!  For  ye  understand  me  not  !  Hence!  hence!  O  youth  ! 
O  mid-day !  O  midnight !  Now  came  evening  and  night 
and  midnight.  ...  Ah !  ah  1  how  it  sighs !  how  it  laughs, 
how  it  rattles  and  gasps,  the  midnight  !  How  soberly  even 
she  speaks,  this  poetess  !  Without  doubt  she  has  overdrunk 
her  drunkenness  !  She  became  too  wide  awake  !  She  chews 
the  cud !  She  chews  the  cud  of  her  woe  in  dream,  the  old 
deep  midnight,  and  still  more  her  joy.  For  joy,  if  woe  be 
already  deep  :  joy  is  deeper  still  than  heart-pain.  .  .  .  Woe 
says,  "  Away !  get  thee  gone,  woe  !  .  .  .  But  joy  wishes  for  a 
second  coming,  wishes  all  to  be  eternally  like  itself.  Woe 
says,  "  Break,  bleed,  O  heart  !  Wander,  hmb !  Wing,  fly  ! 
Onward  !  Upward  !  Pain  !"  Well,  then  !  Cheer  up  !  Oh, 
my  old  heart!  Woe  says,  "Away!"  Ye  higher  men  .  .  . 
should  ye  ever  wish  for  one  time  twice,  should  ye  ever  sa}'-, 
**  Thou  pleasest  me,  happiness  !  Quick  !  instant  !  then  would 
*  Persian  for  Zoroaster. 


EGO-MANIA  419 

ye  wish  all  back  again  !  All  anew,  all  eternally,  all  enchained, 
bound,  amorous.  Oh  !  then  loved  ye  the  world ;  ye  eternities 
love  it  eternally  and  always ;  and  to  woe  also  speak  ye  :  hence, 
but  return  !  For  all  pleasure  wishes — eternity.  All  pleasure 
wishes  for  the  eternity  of  all  things,  wishes  for  honey,  for  the 
lees,  wishes  for  drunken  midnight,  tombs,  the  consolation  of 
the  tears  of  tombs,  gilded  twilight — what  does  pleasure  not 
wish  for !  She  is  thirstier,  heartier,  hungrier,  more  terrible, 
more  secret  than  all  woe  ;  she  wishes  for  herself,  she  gnaws 
into  herself,  the  will  of  the  ring  struggles  in  her.  .  .  .  Pleasure 
wishes  for  the  eternity  of  all  things,  wishes  for  deep,  deep 
eternity  !' 

And  the  sense  of  this  crazy  shower  of  whirling  words  ?  It 
is  that  men  wish  pain  to  cease  and  joy  to  endure  !  This  the 
astounding  discovery  expounded  by  Nietzsche  in  this  demented 
raving. 

The  following  are  obviously  insane  assertions  or  expres- 
sions : 

Die  frohliche  Wissenschaft,  p.  59:  *  What  is  life  ?  Life — it  is 
the  ceaseless  rejection  from  itself  of-  something  wishing  to  die. 
Life — it  is  the  being  cruel  and  pitiless  towards  all  in  us  that 
is  weak  and  old,  and  not  in  us  alone.' 

Persons  capable  of  thought  have  hitherto  always  believed 
that  life  is  the  unceasing  reception  into  itself  of  something 
agreeable  ;  the  rejection  of  what  is  used  up  is  only  an  accom- 
panying phenomenon  of  the  reception  of  new  material. 
Nietzsche's  phrase  expresses  in  a  highly  mysterious  Pythian 
form  the  idea  of  the  matutinal  visit  to  a  certain  place.  Healthy 
men  connect  with  the  conception  of  life  the  idea  rather  of  the 
dining-room  than  that  of  the  privy. 

Jenseits  von  Gut  tmd  Base,  p.  92  :  *  It  is  a  delicacy  that  God 
learned  Greek  when  He  wished  to  become  an  author — and 
that  He  did  not  learn  it  better.'  P.  ^5  :  'Advice  in  the  form 
of  an  enigma.  If  the  cord  is  not  to  snap  ..  ,  .  thou  must  first 
bite  on  it' 

I  have  no  explanation  or  interpretation  of  this  profundity 
to  offer. 

The  passages  quoted  will  have  given  the  reader  an  idea  of 
Nietzsche's  literary  style.  In  the  dozen  volumes,  thick  or  thin, 
which  he  has  published  it  is  always  the  same.  His  books  bear 
various  titles,  for  the  most  part  characteristically  crack-brained, 
but  they  all  amount  to  one  single  book.  They  can  be  changed 
by  mistake  in  reading,  and  the  fact  will  not  be  noticed.  They 
are  a  succession  of  disconnected  sallies,  prose  and  doggerel 
mixed,  without  beginning  or  ending.  Rarely  is  a  thought 
developed  to  any  extent ;  rarely  are  a  few  consecutive  pages 
connected    by   any   unity   of    purpose    or    logical    argument. 


420  DEGENERATION 

Nietzsche  evidently  had  the  habit  of  throwing  on  paper  with 
feverish  haste  all  that  passed  through  his  head,  and  when  he 
had  collected  a  heap  of  snippings  he  sent  them  to  the  printer, 
and  there  was  a  book.  These  sweepings  of  ideas  he  himself 
proudly  terms  '  aphorisms,'  and  the  very  incoherence  of  his 
language  is  regarded  by  his  admirers  as  a  special  merit.* 
When  Nietzsche's  moral  system  is  spoken  of,  it  must  not  be 
imagined  that  he  has  anywhere  developed  one.  Through  all 
his  books,  from  the  first  to  the  last,  there  are  scattered  only 
views  on  moral  problems,  and  on  the  relation  of  man  to  the 
species  and  to  the  universe,  from  which,  taken  together,  there 
may  be  discerned  something  like  a  fundamental  conception. 
This  is  what  has  been  called  Nietzsche's  philosophy.  His 
disciples,  e.g.,  Kaatz,  already  cited,  and,  in  addition,  Zerbst,"!* 
Schellwien,^  and  others,  have  attempted  to  give  this  pretended 
philosophy  a  certain  form  and  unity  by  fishing  out  from 
Nietzsche's  books  a  number  of  passages  in  some  measure 
agreeing  with  each  other,  and  placing  them  in  juxtaposition. 
It  is  true  that  it  would  be  possible  in  this  way  to  set  up  a 
philosophy  of  Nietzsche  exactly  opposed  to  the  one  accepted 
by  his  disciples.  For,  as  has  been  said,  each  one  of  Nietzsche's 
assertions  is  contradicted  by  himself  in  some  place  or  other, 
and  if  it  be  resolved,  with  barefaced  dishonesty,  to  pay  regard 
to  dicta  of  a  definite  kind  only,  and  to  pass  over  those  in 
opposition  to  them,  it  would  be  possible  at  pleasure  to  extract 
from  Nietzsche  a  philosophical  view  or  its  sheer  opposite. 

Nietzsche's  doctrine,  promulgated  as  orthodox  by  his  dis- 
ciples,  criticises   the   foundations   of  ethics,  investigates   the 

*  Dr.  Hugo  Kaatz,  Dz'e  Weltanschauung  Friedrich  Nietzsche ;  Erster 
Theil,  '  Cultur  und  Moral';  Zvveiter  Theil,  *  Kunst  und  Leben.'  Dresden 
und  Leipzig,  1892,  i  Th.,  p.  vi.  :  'We  are  accustomed,  especially  in  matters 
concerning  the  deepest  problems  of  thought,  to  a  finished,  systematic  expo- 
sition. .  .  .  There  is  none  of  all  this  in  Nietzsche,  No  single  work  of  his 
forms  a  finished  whole,  or  is  wholly  intelligible  without  the  others.  Each 
book,  moreover,  is  totally  wanting  in  organic  structure.  Nietzsche  writes 
almost  exclusively  in  aphorisms,  which,  filling  sometimes  two  lines,  some- 
times several  pages,  are  complete  in  themselves,  and  seldom  manifest 
any  direct  connection  with  each  other.  .  .  .  With  proud  indifference  to 
the  reader,  the  author  has  avoided  cutting  even  07ie  gap  in  the  hedge  with 
which  he  has  closely  surrounded  his  intellectual  creations.  Access  to  him 
must  be  gained  by  fighting,'  etc.  In  spite  of  its  seeming  obscurity,  Nietzsche 
has  himself  given  such  pointed  information  concerning  his  method  of  work 
as  amounts  to  an  avowal.  'All  writing  makes  me  angry  or  ashamed  ;  for 
me,  writing  is  a  necessity.'  'But  why,  then,  do  you  write?'  'Yes,  my  dear 
friend,  let  me  say  it  in  confidence  :  I  have  hitherto  found  no  other  means  of 
riddmg  mys^M  of  my  thoughts.'  (The  italics  are  Nietzsche's.)  'And  why 
do  you  wish  to  rid  yourself  of  them?'  'Why  I  wish?  Do  I  so  wish  ?  I  must.' 
Die  frohliche  Wissenschaft.     Neue  Ausgabe,  p.  114, 

f  Dr.  Max  Zerbst,  Nei7i  imd  Ja!     Leipzig,  1892. 

X  Robert  Schellwien,  Max  Stirner  tmd  Friedrich  Nietzsche,  Erschein- 
ungen  des  modernen  Geister  und  das  Wesen  des  Menschen.     Leipzig,  1892. 


EGO-MANIA  421 

genesis  of  the  concept  of  good  and  evil,  examines  the  value  of 
that  w^hich  is  called  virtue  and  vice,  both  for  the  individual 
and  for  society,  explains  the  origin  of  conscience,  and  seeks 
to  give  an  idea  of  the  end  of  the  evolution  of  the  race,  and, 
consequently,  of  man's  ideal — the  '  over  man '  (Uebermensch).  I 
desire  to  condense  these  doctrines  as  closely  as  possible,  and, 
for  the  most  part,  in  Nietzsche's  own  words,  but  without  the 
cackle  of  his  mazy  digressions  or  useless  phrases. 

The  morality  now  prevailing  '  gilds,  deifies,  transports 
beyond  the  tomb,  the  non-egoistical  instincts  of  compassion, 
self-denial,  and  self-sacrifice.'  But  this  morality  of  compassion 
'  is  humanity's  great  danger,  the  beginning  of  the  end,  the 
halting,  the  backward-glancing  fatigue  of  the  will,  turning 
against  life.'  '  We  need  a  criticism  of  moral  values.  The 
value  of  these  values  is  first  of  all  itself  to  be  put  in  question. 
There  has  hitherto  been  no  hesitation  in  setting  up  good  as  of 
higher  value  than  evil,  of  higher  value  in  the  sense  of  advance- 
ment, utility,  prosperity,  as  regards  man  in  general,  including 
the  future  of  man.  What  if  truth  lay  in  the  contrary  ?  What 
if  good  were  a  symptom  of  retrogression,  a  danger,  a  seduction, 
a  poison,  a  narcotic,  by  means  of  which  the  present  should 
live  at  the  cost  of  the  future  ?  Perhaps  more  comfortably, 
less  dangerously,  but  also  on  a  smaller  scale,  more  basely  ?  So 
that  precisely  morality  would  be  to  blame  for  the  fact  that  the 
highest  might  and  splendour  possible  to  the  human  type  should 
never  be  attained  ?  So  that  morality  should  be  precisely  the 
danger  of  dangers  ?' 

Nietzsche  replies  to  these  questions  thrown  out  by  him  in 
the  preface  to  the  book  Zttr  Genealogie  der  Moral,  in  developing 
his  idea  of  the  genesis  of  present  morality. 

He  sees  at  the  beginnings  of  civilization  '  a  beast  of  prey, 
a  magnificent  blond  brute,  ranging  about  and  lusting  for  booty 
and  victory.'  These  '  unchained  beasts  of  prey  were  free  from 
every  social  restraint  ;  in  the  innocence  of  their  wild-beast 
conscience  they  returned  as  exultant  monsters  from  a  horrible 
train  of  murder,  incendiarism,  rapine,  torture,  with  an  arro- 
gance- and  composure  as  if  nothing  but  a  student's  freak  had 
been  perpetrated.'  The  blond  beasts  constituted  the  noble 
races.  They  fell  upon  the  less  noble  races,  conquered  them, 
and  made  slaves  of  them.  '  A  herd  of  blond  beasts  of  prey, 
a  race  of  conquerors  and  masters,  with  military  organization  ' 
(this  word  '  organization  '  should  be  noticed  ;  we  shall  have  to 
revert  to  it),  'with  the  power  to  organize,  unscrupulously  placing 
their  fearful  paws  upon  a  population  perhaps  vastly  superior  in 
numbers,  but  still  amorphous  and  wandering — this  herd  founded 
the  State.  The  dream  is  dispelled  which  made  the  State  begin 
with  a  contract.     What  has  he  to  do  with  contracts,  who  can 


422  DEGENERATION 

command,  who  is  master  by  nature,  who  comes  on  the  scene 
with  violence  in  deed  and  demeanour  ?' 

In  the  State,  then,  thus  estabhshed  there  were  a  race  of 
masters  and  a  race  of  slaves.  The  master-race  first  created 
moral  ideas.  It  distinguished  between  good  and  evil. 
Good  was 'with  it  synonymous  with  noble  ;  evil  with  vulgar. 
All  their  own  qualities  they  felt  as  good ;  those  of  the  subject 
race  as  evil.  Good  meant  severity,  cruelty,  pride,  courage, 
contempt  of  danger,  joy  in  risk,  extreme  unscrupulousness. 
Bad  meant  'the  coward,  the  nervous,  the  mean,  the  narrow 
utilitarian,  and  also  the  distrustful  with  his  disingenuous 
glance,  the  self-abasing,  the  human  hound  who  allows  himself 
to  be  abused,  the  begging  flatterer — above  all,  the  liar.'  Such 
is  the  morality  of  the  masters.  The  radical  meaning  of  the 
words  now  expressing  the  concept  '  good  '  reveals  what  men 
represented  to  themselves  as  '  good '  when  the  moral  of  the 
masters  still  held  sway.  *  The  Latin  bomis  I  believe  I  may 
venture  to  interpret  as  "the  warrior."  Provided  I  rightly  trace 
bomts  to  a  more  ancient  duonus  (compare  belhun,  duelliim,  duen- 
lum,  in  which  it  seems  to  me  that  duonus  is  contained). 
Bonus,  then,  as  a  man  of  discord,  of  disunion  {duo),  as  warrior: 
whereby  it  is  seen  what  in  ancient  Rome  constituted  the 
**  goodness  "  of  a  man.' 

The  subjugated  race  had  naturally  an  opposing  morality — 
the  morality  of  the  slaves.  '  The  slave  looks  with  envy  on 
the  virtues  of  the  powerful ;  he  is  sceptical  and  distrustful ; 
he  has  the  cunning  of  distrust  towards  everything  honoured 
by  them  as  "  good."  Conversely,  those  qualities  were  dis- 
tinguished and  glorified  which  served  to  ameliorate  the 
existence  of  sufferers.  Here  the  place  of  honour  is  given  to 
compassion,  to  the  complaisant  hand,  ready  to  help,  to  the 
warm  heart,  to  patience,  dihgence,  humility,  friendliness,  for 
those  are  here  the  most  useful  qualities,  and  almost  the  only 
means  by  which  the  burden  of  existence  can  be  borne.  Slave- 
morality  is  essentially  utilitarian  morality.' 

For  a  certain  period  the  morality  of  masters  and  slaves 
subsisted  side  by  side,  or,  more  accurately,  the  one  above  the 
other.  Then  an  extraordinary  event  occurred — slave-morality 
rebelled  against  master-morality,  conquered  and  dethroned 
it,  and  set  itself  in  the  place  thereof.  Then  ensued  a  new 
valuation  of  all  moral  concepts.  (In  his  insane  gibberish 
Nietzsche  names  this  *  transvaluation  of  values' — Umwerthung 
der  Werthe.)  That  which,  under  the  master-morals,  had 
passed  for  good  was  now  esteemed  bad,  and  vice  versa.  Weak- 
ness was  meritorious,  cruelty  a  crime  ;  self-sacrifice,  pity  for 
the  pain  of  others,  unselfishness,  were  virtues.  That  is  what 
Nietzsche  terms  *  the  slave  revolt  in  morality.'     *  The  Jews 


EGO-MANIA 


423 


have  brought  about  that  marvel  of  inversion  in  values.  Their 
prophets  have  melted  into  one  substance  "  rich,"  "godless," 
"wicked,"  "violent,"  "sensual,"  and  for  the  first  time  minted 
the  word  "world"  as  one  of  opprobrium.  In  this  inversion 
of  values  (to  which  belongs  the  use  of  the  word  "  poor  "  as  a 
synonym  of  "  holy  "  and  "  friend  ")  lies  the  importance  of  the 
Jewish  race.' 

The  Jewish  '  slave-revolt  in  morality  '  was  an  act  of  vengeance 
on  the  master-race  which  had  long  oppressed  the  Jews,  and 
the  instrument  of  this  vast  vengeance  was  the  Saviour. 
*  Has  not  Israel,  by  the  very  subterfuge  of  this  "  Redeemer," 
this  seeming  adversary  and  destroyer  of  Israel,  attained  the 
final  goal  of  its  sublime  rage  for  vengeance  ?  Does  it  not 
belong  to  the  secret  black  art  of  a  truly  grand  policy  of 
vengeance,  of  a  far-seeing,  underground,  slowly-gripping,  fore- 
planning  vengeance,  that  Israel  itself  should  deny  the  proper 
instrument  of  its  vengeance  before  the  whole  world,  as  some- 
thing deadly  inimical,  and  nail  him  to  the  cross,  in  order  that 
the  "entire  universe,"  viz.,  the  enemies  of  Israel,  might  un- 
hesitatingly bite  at  this  very  bait  ?  And  on  the  other  hand, 
would  it  be  possible,  by  all  the  refinement  of  intellect,  to 
imagine  a  more  dangerous  bait  ?  Something  that  should 
resemble  in  enticing,  mtoxicating,  bewildering,  corrupting 
power  that  symbol  of  the  "  holy  cross,"  that  awful  paradox 
of  a  "  God  on  the  cross,"  that  mystery  of  an  ineffable  final 
and  utmost  cruelty,  and  self-crucifixion  of  God  for  the  salvation 
of  man  ?  It  is  at  least  certain  that  sub  hoc  signo  Israel,  with 
its  vengeance  and  transvaluation  of  all  values,  has  hitherto 
triumphed  again  and  again  over  all  other  ideals,  over  all 
nobler  ideals.' 

To  this  passage  I  would  most  specially  direct  the  reader's 
attention,  and  beg  him  to  transform  into  mental  images  all 
that  jingle  and  clatter  of  words.  Well,  then,  Israel  wished  to 
revenge  itself  on  all  the  world,  and  therefore  decided  to  nail 
the  Saviour  to  the  cross,  and  thereby  create  a  new  morality. 
Who  was  this  Israel  which  conceived  and  executed  the  plan  ? 
Was  it  a  parliament,  a  ministry,  a  ruler,  a  popular  assembly  ? 
Was  the  plan,  before  '  Israel '  set  about  realizing  it,  submitted 
for  general  deliberation  and  resolution  ?  Before  the  total 
insanity  of  this  string  of  words  can  be  distinctly  seen,  an 
effort  must  be  made  to  bring  clearly  to  the  mind,  in  all  its 
actual  details,  the  event  described  by  Nietzsche  as  pre- 
meditated, intended,  and  of  conscious  purpose. 

Since  the  Jewish  slave-revolt  in  morality,  life,  till  then  a 
delight,  at  least  for  the  powerful  and  bold,  or  the  nobles  and 
masters,  has  become  a  torment.  Since  that  revolt  the  un- 
natural holds  sway,  under  which  man  is  becoming  dwarted, 


424  DEGENERATION 

enfeebled,  vulgarized,  and  gradually  degenerate.  For  the 
fundamental  instinct  of  the  healthy  man  is  not  unselfishness 
and  pity,  but  selfishness  and  cruelty.  '  No  injury,  violence, 
exploitation,  annihilation,  can  in  itself  be  a  "  wrong,"  inasmuch 
as  life  operates  essentially — i.e.,  in  its  fundamental  functions — 
by  injuring,  violating,  exploiting,  annihilating,  and  is  absolutely 
inconceivable  without  this  character.  A  legal  regulation  .  .  . 
would  be  a  principle  hostile  to  existence,  a  destroyer  and 
dissolver  of  man,  a  mark  of  lassitude,  a  crime  against  the 
future  of  man,  a  secret  way  to  nothingness.'  *  There  is  at 
present  universal  enthusiasm,  even  in  scientific  disguises,  con- 
cerning coming  conditions  of  society  in  which  the  exploiting 
character  is  to  disappear.  That  sounds  in  my  ears  as  if  some- 
one should  promise  to  invent  a  life  which  should  abstain  from 
all  organic  functions.  Exploitation  does  not  belong  to  a 
decayed,  imperfect,  or  primitive  society :  it  belongs  to  the 
essence  of  living  things,  as  organic  function.'* 

Thus  the  fundamental  instinct  of  man  is  cruelty.  For  this, 
in  the  new  slave-morality,  there  is  no  place.  A  fundamental 
instinct,  however,  is  not  to  be  uprooted.  It  still  lives  and 
demands  its  rights.  Hence  a  series  of  diversions  have  been 
sought  for  it.  '  All  instincts,  not  discharged  outwardly,  turn 
inwards.  Those  terrible  bulwarks  with  which  political  organi- 
zation protected  itself  against  the  ancient  instincts  of  freedom 
• — and  punishments  belong  to  the  front  line  of  these  bulwarks 
— had  for  their  result,  that  all  those  instincts  of  the  savage 
roaming  at  large  were  turned  backwards  and  against  man. 
Animosity,  cruelty,  the  joy  of  pursuit,  of  sudden  assault,  of 
change,  of  destruction — all  that  turns  itself  against  the  pos- 
sessors of  such  instincts  is  the  origin  of  a  "  bad  conscience." 
The  man  who,  from  the  absence  of  external  foes  and  opposition, 
forced  into  the  oppressive  constriction  and  regularity  of  custom, 

*  I  refuted  this  silly  sophism  before  Nietzsche  propounded  it  in  the 
passages  above  quoted  from  Ztir  Genealogie  der  Morale  p.  66,  and  Jenseits 
von  Gilt  imd  Bbse,  p.  228.  See  Die  conventionellen  Liii^en  der  Kultur- 
menschheit^  14  Aufl.,  pp.  211,  212:  'This  expression  [of  Proudhon's,  that 
property  is  theft]  can  be  regarded  as  true  only  from  the  sophistical  stand- 
point that  everything  existing  exists  for  itself,  and  from  the  fact  of  its  exist- 
ence derives  its  right  to  belong  to  itself.  According  to  this  view,  forsooth,  a 
man  steals  the  blade  of  grass  he  plucks,  the  air  he  breathes,  the  fish  he 
catches  ;  but,  then,  the  martin,  too,  is  stealing  when  it  swallows  a  fly,  and  the 
grub  when  it  eats  its  way  into  the  root  of  a  tree  ;  then  Nature  is  altogether 
peopled  by  arch-thieves,and,in  general, everything  steals  that  lives, z>., absorbs 
from  without  materials  not  belonging  to  it,  and  organically  elaborates  them, 
and  a  block  of  platinum,  which  does  not  even  pilfer  from  the  air  a  little 
oxygen  with  which  to  oxidize  itself,  would  be  the  sole  example  of  honesty  on 
our  globe.  No  ;  property  resulting  from  earning,  that  is,  from  the  exchange  of 
a  determined  amount  of  labour  for  a  corresponding  amount  of  goods,  is  not 
theft.'  If,  throughout  this  passage,  'theft'  be  substituted  for  the  word 
'exploitation,'  used  by  Nietzsche,  his  sophism  is  answered. 


EGO-MANIA  425 

impatiently  tore  himself,  persecuted,  gnawed,  hunted,  mal- 
treated himself — this  animal  which  it  is  sought  to  "  tame," 
wounding  himself  against  the  bars  of  his  cage ;  this  destitute 
creature,  consumed  with  -homesickness  for  the  desert,  who  had 
to  create  his  adventures,  his  places  of  torture,  his  insecure  and 
dangerous  wildernesses,  out  of  his  own  self — this  fool,  this 
yearning,  despairing  prisoner,  became  the  inventor  of  the 
evil  conscience.'  '  That  inclination  to  self-torture,  that  re- 
treating cruelty,  of  the  human  brute,  forced  into  inner  life, 
scared  back  into  himself,  he  who  had  invented  evil  conscience 
that  he  might  torture  himself,  after  the  natural  outlet  of  this 
wish  to  inflict  pain  was  stopped  up,'  formed  also  the  concept 
of  guilt  and  sin.  '  We  are  the  inheritors  of  the  vivisection 
of  conscience  and  of  animal  self-torture  of  thousands  of  years.' 
But  all  administration  of  justice,  the  punishment  of  '  so-called  ' 
criminals,  the  greater  part  of  art,  especially  tragedy,  are  also 
disguises  in  which  primitive  cruelty  can  still  manifest  itself. 

Slave-morality,  with  its  'ascetic  ideal'  of  self-suppression 
and  contempt  of  life,  and  its  tormenting  invention  of  .con- 
science, allowed  the  slaves,  it  is  true,  to  take  vengeance  on 
their  masters ;  it  also  subjugated  the  mighty  man-beasts  of 
prey  and  created  better  conditions  of  existence  for  the  small 
and  weak,  for  the  rabble,  the  gregarious  animals ;  but  it  has 
been  pernicious  to  humanity  as  a  whole,  because  it  has  pre- 
vented the  free  evolution  of  precisely  the  highest  human  type. 
*  The  collective  degeneration  of  man  to  that  which,  in  the  eyes 
of  socialistic  ninnies  and  blockheads  of  the  present  day,  seems 
their  "  man  of  the  future  " — their  ideal  ! — this  degeneration  and 
dwarfing  of  man  to  the  perfect  herd  animal  (or,  as  they  say,  to 
the  man  of  "  free  society  "),  this  brutalizing  of  man  to  the 
animal  pigmy  of  equal  rights  and  pretensions,'  is  the  destruc- 
tive work  of  slave-morality.  In  order  to  discipline  humanity 
to  supreme  splendour  we  must  revert  to  nature,  to  the  morality 
of  the  masters,  to  the  unchaining  of  cruelty.  '  The  well-being 
of  the  most  and  the  well-being  of  the  fewest  are  contrary 
standpoints  of  valuation ;  we  will  leave  it  to  the  simplicity  of 
English  biologists  to  hold  that  the  first  as  such  is  undoubtedly 
of  the  higher  value.'  *  In  opposition  to  the  lying  watchword 
of  the  privilege  of  the  majority,  in  opposition  to  the  desire  for 
abasement,  humiliation,  levelling,  for  the  downward  and  dusk- 
ward  of  man,'  we  must  sound  forth  '  the  watchword  of  the 
privilege  of  the  minority.'  *  As  a  last  indicator  of  the  other 
way  appeared  Napoleon,  man  most  unique,  and  latest  born  of 
all  time,  and  in  him  the  incarnate  problem  of  the  aristocratic 
ideal  as  such, — Napoleon,  that  synthesis  of  the  inhuman  and 
the  superhuman  {Unmensch  und  Ueberniensch).' 

The  intellectually  free  man  must  stand  '  beyond  good  and 


426  DEGENERATION 

evil ' ;  these  concepts  do  not  exist  for  hin.  ;  he  tests  his  im- 
pulses and  deeds  by  their  value  for  himself,  not  by  that  w^hich 
they  have  for  others,  for  the  herd  ;  he  does  that  which  causes 
him  pleasure,  even  v^hen,  and  especially  when,  it  torments  and 
injures — nay,  annihilates  others  ;  for  him  holds  good  the  secret 
rule  of  life  of  the  ancient  Assassins  of  the  Lebanon  :  *  Nothing 
is  true,  all  is  permissible.'  With  this  new  morality,  humanity 
will  finally  be  able  to  produce  the  '  over-man.'  '  Thus  we  find, 
as  the  ripest  fruit  on  its  tree,  the  sovereign  individual,  re- 
sembling himself  alone,  freed  again  from  the  morality  of 
custom,  the  autonomous  super-moral  individual  (for  "  auto- 
nomous" and  "moral"  are  mutually  exclusive) — in  short,  the 
man  of  his  own,  independent,  long  will.'  In  Zarathustra  the 
same  thought  is  expressed  dithyrambically :  *  "  Man  is  wicked," 
so  spake  to  me  in  consolation  all  the  wisest.  Ah,  if  only  it  is 
yet  true  to-day !  For  wickedness  is  man's  best  strength. 
Man  must  become  better  and  more  wicked,  so  I  teach.  The 
greatest  wickedness  is  necessary  to  the  best  of  the  over-man. 
It  might  be  good  for  that  preacher  of  little  people  that  he 
suffered  and  bore  the  sins  of  man.  But  I  rejoice  in  great  sins 
as  my  great  consolation.' 

This  is  Nietzsche's  moral  philosophy  which  (disregarding 
contradictions)  is  deduced  from  separate  concordant  passages 
in  his  various  books  (in  pariicular  Menschliches  Allzumenschliches, 
Jenseits  von  Gut  und  Bose,  and  Z^ir  Genealogie  der  Moral).  I 
will  take  it  for  a  moment  and  subject  it  to  criticism,  before 
confronting  it  with  Nietzsche's  own  assertions  diametrically 
opposed  to  it. 

Firstly,  the  anthropological  assertion.  Man  is  supposed  to 
have  been  a  freely  roaming  solitary  beast  of  prey,  whose 
primordial  instinct  was  egoism  and  the  absence  of  any  con- 
sideration for  his  congeners.  This  assertion  contradicts  all 
that  we  know  concerning  the  beginnings  of  humanity.  The 
Kjokkenmoddmge,  or  kitchen-middens,  of  quaternary  man, 
discovered  and  investigated  by  Steenstrup,  have  in  some 
places  a  thickness  of  three  metres,  and  must  have  been  formed 
by  a  very  numerous  horde.  The  piles  of  horses'  bones  at 
Solutre  are  so  enormous  as  quite  to  preclude  the  idea  that  a 
single  hunter,  or  even  any  but  a  very  large  body  of  allied 
hunters,  could  have  collected  and  killed  such  a  large  number 
of  horses  in  one  place.  As  far  as  our  view  penetrates  into 
prehistoric  time,  every  discovery  shows  us  primitive  man  as 
a  gregarious  animal,  who  could  not  possibly  have  maintained 
himself  if  he  had  not  possessed  the  instincts  which  are  pre- 
supposed in  life  in  a  community,  viz.,  sympathy,  the  feeling  of 
solidarity  and  a  certain  degree  of  unselfishness.  We  find 
these  instincts  already  existent  in  apes ;  and  if,  in  those  most 


EGO-MANIA  427 

like  human  beings,  the  ourang-outang  and  gibbon,  these  in- 
stincts fail  to  appear,  it  is  to  many  investigators  a  sufficient 
proof  that  these  animals  are  degenerating  and  dying  out. 
Hence  it  is  not  true  that  at  any  time  man  was  a  *  solitary, 
roving  brute.' 

Now  with  regard  to  the  historical  assertion.  At  first  the 
morality  of  masters  is  supposed  to  have  prevailed,  in  which 
every  selfish  act  of  violence  seemed  good,  every  sort  of  unsel- 
fishness bad.  The  inverted  valuation  of  deeds  and  feelings 
is  said  to  have  been  the  work  of  a  slave-revolt.  The  Jews 
are  said  to  have  discovered  '  ascetic  morality,'  i.e.,  the  ideal  of 
combating  all  desires,  contempt  of  all  pleasures  of  the  flesh, 
pity,  and  brotherly  love,  in  order  to  avenge  themselves  on 
their  oppressors,  the  masters — the  *  blond  beasts  of  prey.'  I 
have  shown  above,  the  insanity  of  this  idea  of  a  conscious  and 
purposed  act  of  vengeance  on  the  part  of  the  Jewish  people. 
But  is  it,  then,  true  that  our  present  morality,  with  its  con- 
ceptions of  good  and  evil,  is  an  invention  of  the  Jews,  directed 
against  '  blond  beasts/  an  enterprise  of  slaves  against  a  master- 
people  ?  The  leading  doctrines  of  the  present  morality,  falsely 
termed  Christian,  were  expressed  in  Buddhism  six  hundred 
years  prior  to  the  rise  of  Christianity.  Buddha  preached  them, 
himself  no  slave,  but  a  king's  son,  and  they  were  the  moral 
doctrines,  not  of  slaves,  not  of  the  oppressed,  but  of  the  very 
masterfolk  themselves,  of  the  Brahmans,  of  the  proper  Aryans. 
The  following  are  some  of  the  Buddhist  moral  doctrines, 
extracted  from  the  Hindu  Dhajmnapada*  and  from  the  Chinese 
Fo-sho-hing-tsan-king :  f  '  Do  not  speak  harshly  to  anybody  ' 
(Dhammapada,  verse  133).  *  Let  us  live  happily  then,  not 
hating  those  who  hate  us  !  Among  men  who  hate  us  let  us 
dwell  free  from  hatred '  (verse  197).  '  Because  he  has  pity  on 
all  living  creatures,  therefore  is  a  man  called  Ariya  '  (elect) 
(verse  270).  *  Be  not  thoughtless,  watch  your  thoughts !' 
(verse  327).  *  Good  is  restraint  in  all  things'  (verse  361). 
'  Him  I  call  indeed  a  Brahmana  who,  though  he  has  committed 
no  offence,  endures  reproach,  bonds,  and  stripes '  (verse  399). 

*  Be  kind  to  all  that  lives '  {Fo-sho-hing-tsan-king,  verse  2,024). 

*  Conquer  your  foe  by  force,  you  increase  his  enmity  ;  con- 
quer by  love,  and  you  will  reap  no  after-sorrow '  (verse  2,241). 
Is  that  a  morality  of  slaves  or  of  masters  ?  Is  it  a  notion  of 
roving   beasts   of  prey,  or   that  of  compassionate,   unselfish, 

*  The  Sacred  Books  of  the  East.  Translated  by  various  Oriental  scholars, 
and  edited  by  F.  Max  Miiller.  The  Clarendon  Press,  Oxford,  ist  series, 
vol.  X.  :  Dhammapada,  by  F.  Max  Miiiler ;  and  Sutta-Nipdta,  by  V.  Faus- 
boll. 

"(■  Tlie  Sacred  Books  of  the  East,  etc.,  vol.  xix. ;  Fo-sho-htng-  tsan-king,  by 
Rev.  S,  Beal. 


428  DEGENERATION 

social  human  beings  ?  And  this  notion  did  not  spring  up  in 
Palestine,  but  in  India,  among  the  very  people  of  the  conquer- 
ing Aryans,  who  were  ruling  a  subordinate  race  ;  and  in  China, 
where  at  that  time  no  conquering  race  held  another  in  subjec- 
tion. Self-sacrifice  for  others,  pity  and  sympathy,  are  sup- 
posed to  be  the  morality  of  Jewish  slaves.  Was  the  heroic 
baboon  mentioned  by  Darwin,"^  after  Brehm,  a  Jewish  slave 
in  revolt  against  the  master-folk  of  blond  beasts  ? 

In  the  '  blond  beast'  Nietzsche  evidently  is  thinking  of  the 
ancient  Germans  of  the  migratory  ages.  They  have  inspired 
in  him  the  idea  of  the  roving  beast  of  prey,  falling  upon 
weaker  men  for  the  voluptuous  assuaging  of  their  instincts  of 
bloodthirstiness  and  destruction.  This  beast  of  prey  never 
entered  into  contracts.  *  He  who  comes  on  the  scene  violent 
in  deed  and  demeanour  .  .  .  what  has  he  to  do  with  con- 
tracts ?'  t  Very  well ;  history  teaches  that  the  '  blond  beast,' 
i.e.,  the  ancient  German  of  the  migratory  ages,  not  yet  affected 
by  the  *  slave-revolt  in  morals,'  was  a  vigorous  but  peace- 
loving  peasant,  who  made  war  not  to  riot  in  murder,  but  to 
obtain  arable  land,  and  who  always  first  sought  to  conclude 
peaceful  treaties  before  necessity  forced  him  to  have  recourse 
to  the  sword. J  And  long  before  intelligence  of  the  *  ascetic 
ideal'  of  Jewish  Christianity  reached  it,  the  same  'blond 
beast '  developed  the  conception  of  feudal  fidelity,  i.e.,  the 
notion  that  it  is  most  glorious  for  a  m.an  to  divest  himself  of 
his  own  *  I ' ;  to  know  honour  only  as  the  resplendence  of 
another's  honour,  of  whom  one  has  become  the  '  man ' ;  and  to 
sacrifice  his  life  for  the  chief ! 

*  Charles  Darwin,  The  Descent  of  Man,  and  Selection  in  Relation  to  Sex; 
London,  J.  Murray,  1885,  p.  loi  :  'AH  the  baboons  had  reascended  the 
heights,  excepting  a  young  one,  about  six  months  old,  who,  loudly  calling 
for  aid,  climbed  on  a  block  of  rock,  and  was  surrounded.  Now  one  of  the 
largest  males,  a  true  hero,  came  down  again  from  the  mountain,  slowly  went 
to  the  young  one,  coaxed  him,  and  triumphantly  led  him  away,  the  dogs 
being  too  much  astonished  to  make  an  attack.' 

f  Friedrich  Nietsche,  Zicr  Genealogie  der  Moral.  Eine  Streitschrift. 
Zweite  Auflage.     Leipzig,  1892,  §  80. 

X  Gustav  Freytag,  Bilder  aus  der  deufschen  Vergangenheit.  Erster  Band, 
aus  dem  Mittelalter.  Leipzig,  1872,  p.  Ai  ff.  :  '  The  Roman  Consul,  Papirius 
Carbo  .  .  .  denies  the  strangers  [the  Cimbrians  and  Teutons  !]  the  right  of 
sojourn  because  the  inhabitants  are  enjoying  the  rights  of  hospitality  of  the 
Romans.  The  strangers  excuse  themselves  by  saying  they  did  not  know 
that  the  natives  were  under  Roman  protection,  and  they  are  ready  to  leave 
the  country.  .  .  .  The  Cimbrians  do  not  seek  a  quarrel  ;  they  send  to 
Consul  Silanus,  and  urgently  entreat  him  to  assign  them  lands  ;  they  are 
•willing  in  return  for  it  to  serve  the  Romans  in  time  of  war.  .  .  .  Once  more 
the  strangers  do  not  invade  Roman  territory,  but  send  an  embassy  to  the 
Senate  and  repeat  the  request  for  an  assignment  of  land.  .  .  .  The  victorious 
Germans  now  sent  a  fresh  embassy  to  the  leader  of  the  other  army,  for  the 
third  time,  to  sue  for  peace  and  ask  for  land  and  seed-corn.' 


EGO-MANIA  429 

Conscience  is  supposed  to  be  *  cruelty  introverted.'  As  the 
man  to  whom  it  is  an  irrepressible  want  to  inflict  pain,  to 
torture,  and  to  rend,  cannot  assuage  this  want  on  others,  he 
satisfies  it  on  himself.*   - 

If  this  were  true,  then  the  respectable,  the  virtuous  man, 
who  had  never  satisfied  the  pretended  primeval  instinct  of 
causing  pain  by  means  of  a  crime  against  others,  would  be 
forced  to  rage  the  most  violently  against  himself,  and  would 
therefore  of  necessity  have  the  worst  conscience.  Conversely, 
the  criminal  directing  his  fundamental  instinct  outwardly,  and 
hence  having  no  need  to  seek  satisfaction  in  self-rending, 
would  necessarily  live  in  the  most  delightful  peace  with  his 
conscience.  Does  this  agree  with  observation  ?  Has  a 
righteous  man  who  has  not  given  way  to  the  instinct  of  cruelty 
ever  been  seen  to  suffer  from  the  stings  of  conscience  ?  Are 
these  not,  on  the  contrary,  to  be  observed  in  the  very  persons 
who  have  yielded  to  their  instinct,  who  have  been  cruel  to 
others,  and  hence  have  attained  to  that  satisfaction  of  their 
craving,  vouchsafed  them,  according  to  Nietzsche,  by  the 
evil  conscience  ?  Nietzsche  says,*!*  '  It  is  precisely  among 
criminals  and  offenders  that  remorse  is  extremely  rare  ;  prisons 
and  reformatories  are  not  the  brooding  places  in  which  this 
species  of  worm  loves  to  thrive,'  and  believes  that  in  this 
remark  he  has  given  a  proof  of  his  assertion.  But  by  the 
commission  of  crime  prisoners  have  shown  that  in  them  the 
instinct  of  evil  is  developed  in  special  strength  ;  in  the  prison 
they  are  forcibly  prevented  from  giving  way  to  their  instinct  ; 
it  is,  therefore,  precisely  in  them  that  self-rending  through 
remorse  ought  to  be  extraordinarily  violent,  and  yet  among 
them  *  the  prick  of  conscience  is  extremely  rare.'  It  is  evident 
that  Nietzsche's  idea  is  nothing  but  a  delirious  sally,  and  not 
worthy  for  a  moment  to  be  weighed  seriously  against  the 
explanation  of  conscience  proposed  by  Darwin,  and  accepted 
by  all  moral  philosophers.! 

Now  for  the  philological  argument.  Originally,  bonus  is 
supposed  to  have  read  diLonus,  and  hence  signified  *  man  of 

*  Zur  Genealogie  der  Moral,  p.  79. 

t  Ibid.,  p.  73. 

X  Charles  Darwin,  op.  at.,  p.  98  :  '  As  soon  as  the  mental  facuhies  had 
become  highly  developed,  images  of  all  past  actions  and  motives  would  be 
incessantly  passing  through  the  brain  of  each  individual  ;  and  that  feeling 
of  dissatisfaction,  or  even  misery,  which  invariably  results  .  .  .  from  any 
unsatisfied  instinct,  would  arise  as  often  as  it  was  perceived  that  the  endur- 
ing and  always  present  social  instinct  had  yielded  to  some  other  instinct,  at 
the  time  stronger,  but  neither  enduring  in  its  nature  nor  leaving  behind  it  a 
very  vivid  impression.  It  is  clear  that  many  instinctive  desires,  such  as  that 
of  hunger,  are,  in  their  nature,  of  short  duration,  and,  after  being  sat/sfied, 
are  not  readily  or  vividly  recalled,'  etc. 


430  DEGENERATION 

discord,  disunion  {duo),  warrior.'*  The  proof  of  the  ancient 
form  duonus  is  offered  by  '  helium  =  dnelluni  =  duen-linn.''  Now 
duen-lum  is  never  met  with,  but  is  a  free  invention  of  Nietzsche, 
as  is  equally  duonus.  How  admirable  is  this  method  !  He 
invents  a  word  duonus  which  does  not  exist,  and  bases  it  on 
the  word  duen-lum,  which  is  just  as  non-existent  and  equally 
drawn  from  irnagination.  The  philology  here  displayed  by 
Nietzsche  is  on  a  level  with  that  which  has  created  the 
beautiful  and  convincing  series  of  derivations  alopex  =  lopex  = 
Pexpix  =  pux  =  fecJis  =  fichs  =  Fuchs  (fox).  Nietzsche  is  uncom- 
monly proud  of  his  discovery,  that  the  conception  of  Sclmld 
(guilt)  is  derived  from  the  very  narrow  and  material  concep- 
tion of  Schulden  (debts). t  Even  if  we  admit  the  accuracy  of 
this  derivation,  what  has  his  theory  gained  by  it  ?  This 
would  only  prove  that,  in  the  course  of  time,  the  crudely 
material  and  limited  conception  had  become  enlarged,  deepened, 
and  spiritualized.  To  whom  has  it  ever  occurred  to  contest 
this  fact  ?  What  dabbler  in  the  history  of  civilization  does 
not  know  that  conceptions  develop  themselves  ?  Did  love 
and  friendship,  as  primitively  understood,  ever  convey  the 
idea  of  the  delicate  and  manifold  states  of  mind  now  expressed 
by  these  words  ?  It  is  possible  that  the  first  guilt  of  which 
men  were  conscious  was  the  duty  of  restoring  a  loan.  But 
neither  can  guilt,  in  the  sense  of  a  material  obligation,  arise 
amongst  '  blond  brutes,'  or  '  cruel  beasts  of  prey.'  It  already 
presupposes  a  relation  of  contract,  the  recognition  of  a  right 
of  possession,  respect  for  other  individuals.  It  is  not  possible 
if  there  does  not  exist,  on  the  part  of  the  lender,  the  dis- 
position to  be  agreeable  to  a  fellow-creature,  and  a  trust  in 
the  readiness  of  the  latter  to  requite  the  benefit ;  and,  on  the 
part  of  the  borrower,  a  voluntary  submission  to  the  dis- 
agreeable necessity  of  repayment.  And  all  these  feelings  are 
really  already  morality — a  simple,  but  true,  morality — the  real 
*  slave- morality  '  of  duty,  consideration,  sympathy,  self-con- 
straint ;  not  the  '  master  -  morality '  of  selfishness,  cruel 
violence,  unbounded  desires  !  Even  if  single  words  like  the 
German  schlecht  {schlicht)  (bad,  plain,  or  straight)  have  to-day 
a  meaning  the  opposite  of  their  original  one,  this  is  not 
to  be  explained  by  a  fabulous  *  transvaluation  of  values,'  but, 
naturally  and  obviously,  by  Abel's  theory  of  the  '  contrary 
double  -  meaning  of  primitive  words.'  The  same  sound 
originally  served  to  designate  the  two  opposites  of  the  same 
concept,  appearing,  in  agreement  with  the  law  of  association, 
simultaneously  in  consciousness,  and  it  was  only  in  the  later 
life  of  language  that  the  word  becarne  the  exclusive  vehicle 
of  one  or  other  of  the  contrary  concepts.     This  phenomenon 

*  Ziir  Genealogie  der  Moral,  p.  9.  f  Ibid.,  p.  48, 


EGO-MANIA  431 

has  not  the  remotest  connection  with  a  change  in  the  moral 
valuation  of  feelings  and  acts. 

Now  the  biological  argument.  The  prevailing  morality  is 
supposed  to  be  admittedly  of  a  character  tending  to  improve 
the  chances  of  life  in  gregarious  animals,  but  to  be  an  obstacle 
to  the  cultivation  of  the  highest  human  type,  and  hence 
pernicious  to  humanity  as  a  whole,  as  it  prevents  the  race 
from  rising  to  the  most  perfect  culture,  and  the  attainment 
of  its  possible  ideal.  Hence  the  most  perfect  human  type 
would,  according  to  Nietzsche,  be  the  '  magnificent  beast  of 
prey,'  the  '  laughing  lion,'  able  to  satisfy  all  his  desires  without 
consideration  for  good  or  evil.  Observation  teaches  that  this 
doctrine  is  rank  idiocy.  All  *  over-men '  known  to  history, 
who  gave  the  reins  to  their  instincts,  were  either  diseased 
from  the  outset,  or  became  diseased.  Famous  criminals — 
and  Nietzsche  expressly  ranks  these  among  the  '  over-men '* 
—  have  displayed,  almost  without  exception,  the  bodily 
and  mental  stigmata  characterizing  them  as  degenerates,  and 
hence  as  cripples  or  atavistic  phenomena,  not  as  specimens  of 
the  highest  evolution  and  florescence.  The  Csesars,  whose 
monstrous  selfishness  could  batten  on  all  humanity,  succumbed 
to  madness,  which  it  will  hardly  be  wished  to  designate  as 
an  ideal  condition.  Nietzsche  readily  admits  that  the  '  splendid 
beast  of  prey '  is  pernicious  to  the  species,  that  he  destroys 
and  ravages  ;  but  of  what  consequence  is  the  species  ?  It 
exists  for  the  sole  purpose  of  making  possible  the  perfect 
development  of  individual  *  over-men,'  and  of  satisfying  their 
most  extravagant  needs.i*  But  the  *  splendid  beast  of  prey ' 
is  pernicious  to  itself;  it  rages  against  itself,  it  even  annihilates 
itself,  and  yet  that  cannot  possibly  be  a  useful  result  of  highly- 
trained  qualities.  The  biological  truth  is,  that  constant  self- 
restraint  is  a  necessity  of  existence  as  much  for  the  strongest 
as  for  the  weakest.  It  is  the  activity  of  the  highest  human 
cerebral  centres.  If  these  are  not  exercised  they  waste  away, 
i.e.,  man  ceases  to  be  man,  the  pretended  '  over-man  '  becomes 
sub-human — in  other  words,  a  beast.  By  the  relaxation  or 
breaking  up  of  the  mechanism  of  inhibition  in  the  brain  the 
organism  sinks  into  irrecoverable  anarchy  in  its  constituent 

*  Jenseits  von  Gut  und  Base,  p.  91  :  'The  criminal  is,  often  enough,  not 
grown  to  the  level  of  his  deed  :  he  dwarfs  and  traduces  it.  The  legal  de- 
fenders of  the  criminal  are  rarely  artists  enough  to  turn  the  beautiful  terrible- 
ness  of  the  deed  to  the  profit  of  the  doer.' 

f  '  A  people  is  the  detour  of  nature,  in  order  to  arrive  at  six  or  seven  great 
men.'  See  also  :  '  The  essential  thing  in  a  good  and  healthy  aristocracy  is, 
that  it  should  feel  itself  to  be  7wt  the  function,  but  the  eftd  anA  justification, 
be  it  of  royalty  or  of  the  commonwealth — that  it  should,  therefore,  with  a 
good  conscience,  suffer  the  sacrifice  of  a  countless  number  of  men  vtho,  for 
its  sake,  must  be  humbled  and  reduced  to  imperfect  beings,  to  slaves,  to 
instruments.'— y^;/!.v^/^^  von  Gut  und  IJose,  p.  226. 


432  DEGENERATION 

parts,  and  this  leads,  with  absolute  certainty,  to  ruin,  to 
disease,  madness  and  death,  even  if  no  resistance  results  from 
the  external  world  against  the  frenzied  egoism  of  the  un- 
bridled individual. 

What  now  remains  standing  of  Nietzsche's  entire  system  ? 
We  have  recognised  it  as  a  collection  of  crazy  and  inflated 
phrases,  which  it  is  really  impossible  seriously  to  seize,  since 
they  possess  hardly  the  solidity  of  the  smoke-rings  from  a 
cigar.  Nietzsche's  disciples  are  for  ever  murmuring  about 
the  '  depth '  of  his  moral  philosophy,  and  with  himself  the 
words  '  deep  '  and  '  depth  '  are  a  mental  trick  repeated  so 
constantly  as  to  be  insufferable.*  If  we  draw  near  to  this 
'  depth '  for  the  purpose  of  fathoming  it,  we  can  hardly 
trust  our  eyes.  Nietzsche  has  not  thought  out  one  of  his 
so-called  ideas.  Not  one  of  his  wild  assertions  is  carried 
a  finger's -breadth  beneath  the  uppermost  surface,  so  that, 
at  least,  it  might  withstand  the  faintest  puff  of  breath. 
It  is  probable  that  the  entire  history  of  philosophy  does  not 
record  a  second  instance  of  a  man  having  the  impudence  to 
give  out  as  philosophy,  and  even  as  profound  philosophy,  such 
railway-bookstall  humour  and  such  tea-table  wit.  Nietzsche 
sees  absolutely  nothing  of  the  moral  problem,  around  which, 
nevertheless,  he  has  poured  out  ten  volumes  of  talk.  Ration- 
ally treated,  this  problem  can  only  run  thus:  Can  human 
actions  be  divided  into  good  and  evil  ?  Why  should  some 
be  good,  the  others  evil  ?  What  is  to  constrain  men  to 
perform  the  good  and  refrain  from  the  evil  ? 

Nietzsche  would  seem  to  deny  the  legitimacy  of  a  classifica- 
tion of  actions  from  moral  standpoints.  '  Nothing  is  true,  all 
is  permissible.'!     There  is  no  good  and  no  evil.     It  is  a  super- 

*  The  following  are  a  few  examples,  which  could  easily  be  centupled 
(literally,  not  hyperbolically)— y^^zj.?//^  von  Gut  und  Boss,  p.  63  :  'It  is  the 
Orient,  the  deep  Orient.'  P.  239:  'Such  books  of  depth  and  of  the  first 
importance.'  P.  248:  'Deep  suffering  ennobles.'  'A  bravery  of  taste, 
resisting  all  that  is  sorrowful  and  deep,'  P.  249  :  '  Any  fervour  and  thirsti- 
ness  which  constantly  drives  the  soul  .  .  .  into  the  bright,  the  brilliant,  the 
deep,  the  delicate.'  P.  256:  'An  odour  quite  as  much  of  depth  [!]  as 
of  decay.'  P.  260:  'To  lie  tranquilly  like  a  mirror,  so  that  the  deep 
heaven  might  reflect  itself  in  them.'  P.  262  :  '  I  often  think  how  I  may  make 
him  [man]  stronger,  wickeder,  and  deeper.'  Also  sprach  Zarathnstra,  pt.  i., 
p.  71  :  'But  thou  Deep  One,  thou  sufferest  too  deeply  even  from  little 
wounds.'  Pt.  ii.,  p.  52  :  'Immovable  is  my  depth  ;  but  it  sparkles  with 
floating  enigmas  and  laughters'  (! !).  P.  64  :  'And  this  for  me  is  knowledge  : 
all  depth  should  rise — to  my  height.'  P.  70  :  'They  did  not  think  enough 
into  tlie  depth.'  Pt.  iii.,  p.  22:  'The  world  is  deep,  and  deeper  than  the 
day  has  ever  thought  it.'  Ir*t.  iv.,  p.  129  :  '  What  says  the  deep  midnight  ?  .  .  . 
From  a  deep  dream  am  I  awakened.  The  world  is  deep,  and  deeper  than 
the  day  thought.  Deep  in  its  woe.  Joy — deeper  still  than  sorrow  of  heart. 
All  joy  .  .  .  wishes  for  deep,  deep  eternity,'  etc. 

t  Zur  Getiealogie  der  Morale  p.  167. 


EGO-MANIA  433 

stition  and  hereditary  prejudice  to  cling  to  these  artificial 
notions.  He  himself  stands  '  beyond  good  and  evil,'  and  he 
invites  the  *  free  spirits  '  and  *  good  Europeans  '  to  follow  him 
to  this  standpoint.  And  -thereupon  this  'free  spirit,'  standing 
'  beyond  good  and  evil,'  speaks  with  the  greatest  candour  of 
the  *  aristocratic  virtues,'*  and  of  the  '  morality  of  the  masters.' 
Are  there,  then,  virtues  ?  Is  there,  then,  a  morality,  even  if  it 
be  opposed  to  the  prevailing  one  ?  How  is  that  compatible 
with  the  negation  of  all  morality  ?  Are  men's  actions,  there- 
fore, not  of  equal  value  ?  Is  it  possible  in  these  to  distinguish 
good  and  evil  ?  Does  Nietzsche,  therefore,  undertake  to 
classify  them,  designating  some  as  virtues  —  'aristocratic 
virtues' — others  as  *  slave  actions,'  bad  for  the  'masters,  the 
commanders,'  and  hence  wicked  ;  how,  then,  can  he  still 
affirm  that  he  stands  '  beyond  good  and  evil '  ?  He  stands,  in 
fact,  mid- way  between  good  and  evil,  only  he  indulges  in  the 
foolish  jest  of  calling  that  evil  which  we  call  good,  and  vice-versa 
— an  intellectual  performance  of  which  every  naughty  and  mis- 
chievous child  of  four  is  certainly  capable. 

This  first  and  astounding  non-comprehension  of  his  own 
standpoint  is  already  a  good  example  of  his  '  depth.'  But 
further.  As  the  chief  proof  of  the  non-existence  of  morality, 
he  adduces  what  he  calls  the  '  transvaluation  of  values.'  At 
one  time  good  is  said  to  have  been  that  which  is  now  esteemed 
evil,  and  conversely.  We  have  seen  that  this  idea  is  delirious, 
and  expressed  in  a  delirious  way.t  But  let  it  be  granted  that 
Nietzsche  is  right ;  we  will  for  once  enter  into  the  folly  and 
accept  the  *  revolt  of  slaves  in  morality  '  as  a  fact.  What  has 
his  fundamental  idea  gained  by  this  ?  A  *  transvaluation  of 
values'  would  prove  nothing  against  the  existence  of  a  morality, 
for  it  leaves  the  concept  of  value  itself  absolutely  intact. 
These,  then,  are  values  ;  but  now  this,  now  that,  species  of 
action  acquires  the  rank  of  value.  No  historian  of  civilization 
denies  the  fact  that  the  notions  concerning  what  is  moral  or 
immoral  have  changed  in  the  course  of  history,  that  they  con- 

*  Jenseits  von  Gut  und  Bose,  p.  159  :  '  Our  virtues  ?  It  is  probable  that 
we,  too,  still  have  our  virtues,  albeit  they  are  no  longer  the  true-hearted  and 
robust  virtues  for  which  we  hold  our  grandfathers  in  honour — though  at  a 
little  distance.'  P.  154:  'The  man  beyond  good  and  evil,  the  master  of  his 
virtues  ...  he  ought  to  be  the  greatest.'  So  then,  'beyond  good  and  evil,' 
and  yet  having  '  virtues '! 

t  Zitr  Genealogie  der  Moral,  p.  79:  'As  a  premise  to  this  hypothesis 
concerning  the  origin  of  the  evil  conscience  [through  the  'transvaluation  of 
values'  and  the  'revolt  of  slaves  in  morality']  belongs  the  fact  .  .  .  that 
this  transformation  was  in  no  way  gradual,  or  voluntary,  and  did  not  manifest 
itself  as  an  organic  growing  into  new  conditions,  but  as  a  rapture,  a  leap,  a 
compulsion.'  Hence,  not  only  was  that  good  which  had  previously  been 
evil,  but  this  '  transvaluation'  even  occurred  suddenly,  ordered  one  fine  day 
by  authority  1 
28 


434  DEGENERATION 

tinually  change,  that  they  will  change  in  the  future.  The 
recognition  of  this  has  become  a  commonplace.  If  Nietzsche 
assumes  this  to  be  a  discovery  of  his  own,  he  deserves  to  be 
decked  with  a  fool's  cap  by  the  assistant  teacher  of  a  village 
school.  But  how  can  the  evolution,  the  transformation,  of 
moral  concepts  in  any  way  contradict  the  fundamental  fact  of 
the  existence  of  moral  concepts  ?  Not  onl}^  does  this  trans- 
formation not  .contradict  these,  but  it  confirms  them  1  They 
are  the  necessary  premise  of  this  transformation  !  A  modi- 
fication of  moral  concepts  is  evidently  possible  only  if  there 
are  moral  concepts  ;  but  this  is  exactly  the  problem — '  are 
there  moral  concepts  ?'  In  spite  of  all  his  spouting  about  the 
'  transvaluation  of  values  '  and  the  *  revolt  of  slaves  in  morality,' 
Nietzsche  never  approaches  this  primary  and  all-important 
question. 

He  contemptuously  reproaches  slave-morality  as  being  a 
utilitarian  morality,*  and  he  ignores  the  fact  that  he  extols  his 
'  noble  virtues,'  constituting  the  *  morality  of  masters,'  only 
because  they  are  advantageous  for  the  individual,  for  the 
'  over-man. 'f  Are,  then,  'advantageous'  and  'useful'  not 
exactly  synonymous?  Is,  therefore,  master- morality  not 
every  whit  as  utilitarian  as  slave-morality  ?  And  the  '  deep ' 
Nietzsche  does  not  see  this !  And  he  ridicules  English 
moralists  because  they  have  invented  the  *  morality  of  utili- 
tarianism.'| 

He  believes  he  has  unearthed  something  deeply  hidden, 
not  yet  descried  by  human  eye,  when  he  announces,§  '  What 
is  there  that  is  not  called  love  ?  Covetousness  and  love — 
what  different  feelings  do  we  experience  at  each  of  these  words  ! 
And  yet  it  might  be  the  same  instinct.  .  .  .  Our  love  for  our 
neighbours — is  it  not  an  ardent  desire  for  a  possession  ?  .  .  . 
When  we  see  anyone  suffering,  we  willingly  utilize  the  oppor- 

*  Jenseits  von  Gut  und  Bose,  p.  232  :  *  Slave-morality  is  essentially  a 
utilitarian  morality.' 

f  Die  frohliche  Wissenschaft,  p.  32 :  '  In  reality,  however,  evil  instincts 
are  just  as  purposive,  as  conservative  of  the  species,  and  as  indispensable  as 
the  good,  only  they  have  a  different  function.'  Zur  Genealogie  der  Moral, 
p.  21  :  'At  the  root  of  all  .  .  .  noble  races  lies  the  beast  of  prey  .  .  .  this 
foundation  needs  from  time  to  time  to  disburden  itself ;  the  animal  must  out, 
must  hie  him  back  to  the  desert.'  This  means  that  it  is  essential  to  his 
health,  and,  consequently,  of  utility  to  him. 

%  Ziir  Genealo^^ie  der  Moral,  p.  6  :  '  To  what  disorders,  however,  this 
[democratic]  prejudice  can  give  rise,  is  shown  by  the  infamous  [!]  case  of 
Buckle.  The  plebeianism  of  the  modern  spirit,  which  is  of  English  origin, 
once  more  breaks  forth  .  .  ,  there.'  Jenseits  von  Gut  tend  Bose,  p.  212: 
'There  are  truths  that  are  best  recognised  by  mediocre  heads.  ,  .  .  We  are 
driven  to  this  proposition  since  the  intellect  of  mediocre  Englishmen — I 
may  mention  Darwin,  John  Stuart  Mill,  and  Herbert  Spencer — acquired 
preponderance  in  the  mean  region  of  European  taste.' 

§  Die  frohliche  Wissenschaft,  p.  43. 


EGO-MANIA  435 

tunity  proferred  us  to  take  possession  of  him  ;  the  pitying  and 
charitable  man,  for  example,  does  this ;  he  also  calls  by  the 
name  "  love  "  the  desire  for  a  new  possession  awakened  in  him, 
and  takes  pleasure  in  it,  is  he  would  in  a  fresh  conquest  which 
beckons  him  on.'  Is  it  any  longer  necessary  to  criticise  these 
silly  super jficialities  ?  Every  act,  even  seemingly  the  most  dis- 
interested, is  admittedly  egoistic  in  a  certain  sense,  viz.,  that 
the  doer  promises  himself  a  benefit  from  it,  and  experiences 
a  feeling  of  pleasure  from  the  anticipation  of  the  expected 
benefit.  Who  has  ever  denied  this  ?  Is  it  not  expressly 
emphasized  by  all  modern  moralists  ?*  Is  it  not  implied  in 
the  accepted  definition  of  morality,  as  a  knowledge  of  what  is 
useful  ?  But  Nietzsche  has  not  even  an  inkling  of  the  essence 
of  the  subject.  To  him  egoism  is  a  feeling  having  for  its 
content  that  which  is  useful  to  a  being,  whom  he  pictures  to 
himself  as  isolated  in  the  world,  separated  from  the  species, 
even  hostile  to  it.  To  the  moralist,  the  egoism  which  Nietzsche 
believes  himself  to  have  discovered  at  the  base  of  all  unselfishness, 
is  the  knowledge  of  what  is  useful  not  alone  to  the  individual, 
but  to  the  species  as  well ;  to  the  moralist,  the  creator  of  the 
knowledge  of  the  useful  is  not  the  individual,  but  the  whole 
species ;  to  the  moralist  also  egoism  is  morality,  but  it  is  a 
collective  egoism  of  the  species,  an  egoism  of  humanity  in  face 
of  the  non-human  co-habitants  of  the  earth,  and  in  the  face  of 
Nature.  The  man  whom  the  healthy-minded  moralist  has 
before  his  eyes  is  one  who  has  attained  a  sufiiciently  high 
development  to  extricate  himself  from  the  illusion  of  his 
individual  isolation,  and  to  participate  in  the  existence  of  the 
species,  to  feel  himself  one  of  its  members,  to  picture  to  him- 
self the  states  of  his  fellow-creatures — i.e.,  to  be  able  to 
sympathize  with  them.  This  man  Nietzsche  calls  a  herd  animal 
— a  term  which  he  has  found  used  by  all  Darwinist  writers, 
but  which  he  seems  to  regard  as  his  own  invention.  He  endows 
the  word  with  a  meaning  of  contempt.  The  truth  is  that  this 
herding  animal — i.e.,  man,  whose  '  I  '  consciousness  has  ex- 
panded itself  to  the  capacity  of  receiving  the  consciousness 
of  the  species — represents  the  higher  development,  to  which 
mental  cripples  and  degenerates,  for  ever  enclosed  in  their 
diseased  isolation,  cannot  ascend. 

*  See,  in  my  novel,  Die  Kranklieit  des  Jahrhunderts^  Leipzig-,  1889, 
Band  I., p.  140,  Schroiter's  remarks  :  'Egoism  is  a  word.  All  depends  upon 
the  interpretation.  Every  living  being  strives  for  happiness,  i.e.,  for  content- 
ment. .  .  .  He  [the  healthy  man]  cannot  be  happy  when  he  sees  others 
suffer.  The  higher  the  man's  development,  the  livelier  is  this  feeling.  .  .  . 
The  egoism  of  these  men  consists  in  their  seeking  out  the  pain  of  others 
and  striving  to  alleviate  it,  in  which,  while  combating  the  sufferings  of 
others,  they  are  simply  struggling  to  attain  to  their  own  happiness.  A  Catholic 
would  say  of  St.  Vincent  de  Paul  or  of  Carlo  Borromeo,  He  was  a  great 
saint  ;  I  should  say  of  him,  He  was  a  great  egoist.' 


436  DEGENERATION 

Quite  as  *  deep '  as  his  discovery  of  the  egoism  of  all  un- 
selfishness is  Nietzsche's  harangue  '  to  the  teachers  of  un- 
selfishness.'^ The  virtues  of  a  man  are  called  good,  not  in 
respect  of  their  effects  upon  himself,  but  in  respect  of  the 
effects  which  we  suppose  them  to  have  upon  ourselves  and 
society.  'The  virtues  (such  as  diligence,  obedience,  chastity, 
piety,  justice),  are  for  the  most  part  pernicious  to  their 
possessors.'  '  Praise  of  the  virtues  is  praise  of  something 
pernicious  to  the  individual — the  praise  of  instincts  which 
deprive  a  man  of  his  noblest  egoism,  and  of  the  power  of 
the  highest  self-protection.'  *  Education  .  .  .  seeks  to  deter- 
mine the  individual  to  modes  of  thought  and  conduct  which, 
if  they  have  become  habit,  instinct,  and  passion,  rule  in  him 
and  over  him,  against  his  ultimate  advantage,  but  "  for  the 
general  good."  '  This  is  the  old  silly  objection  against  altruism 
which  we  have  seen  floating  in  every  gutter  for  the  last  sixty 
years.  *  If  everyone  were  to  act  unselfishly,  to  sacrifice 
himself  for  his  neighbour,  the  result  would  be  that  everyone 
would  injure  himself,  and  hence  humanity,  as  a  whole,  would 
suffer  great  prejudice.'  Assuredly  it  would,  if  humanity  were 
composed  of  isolated  individuals  in  no  communication  with 
each  other.  Whereas  it  is  an  organism  ;  each  individual 
always  gives  to  the  higher  organism  only  the  surplus  of  his 
effective  force,  and  in  his  personal  share  of  the  collective 
wealth  profits  by  the  prosperity  of  the  whole  organism,  which 
he  has  increased  through  his  altruistic  sacrifice.  What  would 
probably.be  said  to  the  canny  householder  who  should  argue 
in  this  way  against  fire  insurance  :  '  Most  houses  do  not  burn 
down.  The  house-owner  who  insures  himself  against  fire 
pays  premiums  his  life  long,  and  as  his  house  will  pro- 
bably never  burn  down,  he  has  thrown  away  his  money 
to  no  purpose.  Fire  insurance  is  consequently  injurious.' 
The  objection  against  altruism,  that  it  injures  each  individual 
by  imposing  on  hirn  sacrifices  for  others,  is  of  exactly  the 
same  force. 

We  have  had  quite  enough  tests  of  the  '  depth  '  of  Nietzsche 
and  his  system.  I  now  wish  to  point  out  some  of  his 
most  diverting  contradictions.  His  disciples  do  not  deny 
these,  but  seek  to  palliate  them.  Thus  Kaatz  says  :  '  He 
had  experienced  a  change  in  his  own  views  concerning  so 
many  things,  that  he  warned  men  against  the  rigid  principle 
which  would  pass  off  dishonesty  to  self  as  "character."  In 
view  of  the  shifting  of  opinions  as  evidenced  in  Nietzsche's 
works,  it  is,  of  course,  only  that  theory  of  life  to  which 
Nietzsche    ultimately   wrestled    his    way   that    can    be   taken 

*  Die froliUche  Wisscnscliaft,  p.  48. 


EGO-MANIA  437 

into  consideration  for  the  purposes  of  this  book.'*  This  is, 
however,  a  conscious  and  intended  falsification  of  the  facts, 
and  the  hand  of  the  falsifier  ought,  like  that  of  the  cheater 
at  cards,  to  be  forthwith  nailed  to  the  table.  The  fact 
is  that  the  contradictions  are  to  be  found,  not  in  works  of 
different  periods,  but  in  the  same  book,  often  on  the  same 
page.  They  are  not  degrees  of  knowledge,  of  which  the 
higher  naturally  surpass  the  lower,  but  opposing,  mutually 
incompatible  opinions  co-existing  in  Nietzsche's  conscious- 
ness, which  his  judgment  is  neither  capable  of  reconciling, 
nor  among  which  it  can  suppress  either  term. 

In  Also  sprach  Zarathustra,  pt.  iii.,  p.  29,  we  read:  'Always 
love  your  neighbour  as  yourself,  but  first  be  of  those  who  love 
themselves.'  P.  56  :  *  And  at  that  time  it  happened  also  .  .  . 
that  his  word  praised  selfishness  as  blessed,  hale,  healthy 
selfishness,  which  wells  forth  from  the  mighty  soul.'  And 
p.  60  :  '  One  must  learn  to  love  one's  self — thus  I  teach — with 
a  hale  and  healthy  love,  so  that  one  bear  with  one's  self,  and 
not  rove  about.'  In  opposition  to  this,  in  the  same  book, 
pt.  i.,  p.  108:  'The  degenerating  sense  which  says,  "All  for 
me,"  is  to  us  a  horror.'  Is  this  contradiction  explained  by  an 
*  effort  to  wrestle  his  way  to  an  ultimate  theory  of  life '  ?  The 
contrary  assertions  are  in  the  same  book  a  few  pages  apart. 

Another  example.  Die  frohliche  Wissenschaft,  p.  264  :  '  The 
absence  of  personality  avenges  itself  everywhere ;  an  en- 
feebled, thin,  effaced  personaUty,  denying  and  calumniating 
itself,  is  worthless  for  any  further  good  thing,  most  of  all  for 
philosophy.'  And  only  four  pages  further  in  the  same  book, 
p.  268  :  '  Have  we  not  been  seized  with  .  .  .  the  suspicion 
of  a  contrast  —  a  contrast  between  the  world  —  in  which, 
hitherto,  we  were  at  home  with  our  venerations  .  .  .  and  of 
another  world,  which  is  ourselves  ...  a  suspicion  which 
might  place  us  Europeans  .  .  .  before  the  frightful  alter- 
native. Either — Or  :  "  either  do  away  with  your  venerations 
or  yourselves." '  Here,  therefore,  he  denies,  or,  at  least, 
doubts,  his  personality,  even  if  in  an  interrogative  form ;  on 
which  the  reader  need  not  dwell,  since  Nietzsche  'loves  to 
mask  his  thoughts,  or  to  express  them  hypothetically  ;  and 
to  conclude  the  problems  he  raises  by  an  interrupted  phrase 
or  a  mark  of  interrogation. '*f- 

But  he  denies  his  personality,  his  '  I,'  still  more  decidedly. 
In  the  preface  to  Jenseits  von  Gtit  und  Bose,  p.  6,  he  explains 
that  the  foundation  of  all  philosophies  up  to  the  present  time 
has   been    '  some   popular   superstition,'  such    as  '  the  super- 

*  Dr.  Hugo  Kaatz,  op.  cit.,  Thiel  I.,  Vorrede,  p.  viii. 
+  Robert  Schellwien,  Max  Stierner  icnd  hriedrich  Nietzsche.     Leipzig 
1892,  p.  23. 


438  DEGENERATION 

stition  of  the  soul,  which,  as  a  superstition  of  the  subjective 
and  the  "  I,"  has  not  ceased,  even  in  our  days,  to  cause 
mischief.'  And  in  the  same  book,  p.  139,  he  exclaims  : 
'  Who  has  not  already  been  sated  to  the  point  of  death  with 
all  subjectivity  and  his  own  accursed  ipsissimosity  !'  Hence 
the  *  I  '  is  a  superstition  !  Sated  to  the  point  of  death  with 
'subjectivity'!  And  yet  the  'I'  should  be  'proclaimed  as 
holy.'*  And  yet  the  '  ripest  fruit  of  society  and  morality  is 
the  sovereign  individual,  who  resembles  himself  alone. 'f 
And  yet  '  a  personality  which  denies  itself  is  no  longer  good 
for  anything  '  ! 

The  negation  of  the  *  I,'  the  designation  of  it  as  a  super- 
stition, is  the  more  extraordinary,  as  Nietzsche's  whole 
philosophy — if  one  may  call  his  effusions  by  that  name — is 
based  only  on  the  '  Ego,'  recognising  it  as  alone  justifiable, 
or  even  as  alone  existing. 

In  all  Nietzsche's  works  we  shall,  it  is  true,  find  no  more 
subversive  contradiction  than  this ;  but  a  few  other  examples 
will  show  to  what  extent  he  holds  mutually-destructive 
opposites  in  his  mind  in  uncompromising  juxtaposition. 

We  have  seen  that  his  last  piece  of  wisdom  is  :  '  Nothing 
is  true  ;  all  is  permissible.'  At  bottom  all  those  ethics  are 
repugnant  to  me  which  say  :  *  Do  not  do  this  !  Renounce  ! 
Overcome  self!'  'Self-command!'  Those  ethical  teachers 
who  .  .  .  enjoin  man  to  place  himself  in  his  own  power  induce 
thereby  in  him  a  peculiar  disease!  And  now  let  the  following 
sentences  be  weighed  :  '  Through  auspicious  marriage  customs 
there  is  a  continual  increase  in  the  power  and  pleasure  of 
willing,  in  the  will  to  command  self.'  'Asceticism  and 
puritanism  are  almost  indispensable  means  of  education  and 
ennoblement,  if  a  race  desires  to  triumph  over  its  plebeian 
origin,  and  raise  itself  at  some  time  to  sovereignty.'  *  The 
essential  and  priceless  feature  of  every  morality  is  that  it  is 
a  long  constraint.'  § 

The  characteristic  of  the  over-human  is  his  wish  to  stand 
alone,  to  seek  solitude,  to  flee  from  the  society  of  the 
gregarious.  *  He  should  be  the  greatest  who  can  be  the 
most  solitary.'  'The  lofty  independent  spirituality — the  will 
to  stand  alone.  .  .  .'  [Jenseits  von  Gut  und  Base,  pp.  154,  123.) 
*  The  strong  are  constrained  by  their  nature  to  segregate, 
as  much  as  the  feeble  are  by  theirs  to  aggregate '  (Zwr 
Genealogie  der  Moral,  p.  149).     In  opposition  to  this  he  teaches 

*  Also  sprach  Zaraihusira,  pt.  i.,  p.  84  :  ' The  "  thou"  is  proclaimed  holy, 
but  not  yet  the  "  I.'" 

t  Zur  Genealogie  der  Moral,  p.  43. 

X  Die fr'dhliche  Wissefisc/iaft,  p.  222. 

§  Jenseits  von  Gut  tind  Bose,  pp.  78,  106. 


EGO-MANIA 


439 


in  other  places :  *  During  the  longest  interval  in  the  life  of 
humanity  there  was  nothing  more  terrible  than  to  feel  one's 
self  alone  '  (Die  frohliche  Wissenschaft,  p.  147).  Again  :  '  We 
at  present  sometimes  undervalue  the  advantages  of  life  in  a 
community  '  (Z«r  Genealogie  der  Moral,  p.  59).  We  ?  That 
is  a  calumny.  We  value  these  advantages  at  their  full  worth. 
He  alone  does  not  value  them  who,  in  expressions  of  admira- 
tion, vaunts  '  segregation,'  i.e.,  hostility  to  the  community  and 
contempt  of  its  advantages,  as  characterizing  the  strong. 

At  one  time  the  primitive  aristocratic  man  is  the  freely- 
roving,  splendid  beast  of  prey,  the  blond  beast ;  at  another : 
*  these  men  are  rigorously  kept  within  bounds  by  morality, 
veneration,  custom,  gratitude,  still  more  by  reciprocal  surveil- 
lance, by  jealousy  inter  pares  ;  and,  on  the  other  hand,  in  their 
attitude  towards  each  other,  inventive  in  consideration,  self- 
command,  delicacy,  fidelity,  pride,  and  friendship.'  Ay,  if 
these  be  the  attributes  of  '  blond  beasts,'  may  someone  speedily 
give  us  a  society  of  '  blond  beasts  ' !  But  how  does  '  morality, 
veneration,  self-command,'  etc.,  accord  with  the  'free-roving' 
of  the  splendid  beast  of  prey  ?  That  remains  an  unsolved 
enigma.  It  is  true  that  Nietzsche,  while  making  our  mouths 
water  by  his  description,  adds  to  it  this  limitation:  'Towards 
what  lies  beyond,  where  the  stranger,  and  what  is  strange, 
begins,  they  are  not  much  better  than  beasts  of  prey  set  free ' 
{Zur  Genealogie  der  Moral,  p.  21).  But  this  is  in  reality  no 
limitation.  Every  organized  community  regards  itself,  in 
respect  of  the  rest  of  the  world,  as  a  conjoint  unity,  and  does 
not  accord  to  the  foreigner,  the  man  from  without,  the  same 
rights  as  to  a  member  of  its  own  body.  Rights,  custom,  con- 
sideration, are  not  extended  to  the  stranger,  unless  he  knows 
how  to  inspire  fear  and  to  compel  a  recognition  of  his  rights. 
The  progress  in  civilization,  however,  consists  in  the  very  fact 
that  the  boundaries  of  the  community  are  continually  enlarged, 
that  which  is  strange  and  without  rights  or  claim  to  considera- 
tion being  constantly  made  to  recede  further  and  ever  further. 
At  first  there  existed  in  the  horde  reciprocal  forbearance  and 
right  alone ;  then  the  feeling  of  sohdarity  extended  itself  to 
the  tribe,  the  country,  state,  and  race.  At  the  present  day 
there  is  an  international  law  even  in  war;  the  best  among  con- 
temporaries feel  themselves  one  with  all  men,  nay,  no  longer 
hold  even  the  animal  to  be  without  rights ;  and  the  time  will 
come  when  the  forces  of  Nature  will  be  the  sole  strange  and 
external  things  which  may  be  treated  according  to  man's  need 
and  pleasure,  and  in  regard  to  which  he  may  be  the  *  freed 
beast  of  prey.'  The  *  deep '  Nietzsche  is  not  capable,  it  is 
true,  of  comprehending  a  state  of  the  case  so  simple  and  clear. 

At  one  moment  he  makes  merry  over  the  '  naivete  '  of  those 


440 


DEGENERATION 


who  believe  in  an  original  social  contract  {Zur  Genealogie  der 
Moral,  p.  80),  and  then  says  (in  the  same  book,  p.  149)  :  *  If 
they  '  (the  strong,  the  born  masters,  the  *  species  of  solitary 
beasts  of  prey ')  '  unite,  it  is  only  with  a  view  to  a  collective 
act  of  aggression,  a  collective  satisfaction  of  their  volition  to 
exert  their  power,  with  much  resistance  from  the  individual 
conscience.'  With  resistance  or  without,  does  not  a  '  union 
for  the  purpose  of  a  collective  satisfaction '  amount  to  a  rela- 
tion of  contract,  the  acceptation  of  which  Nietzsche  with 
justice  terms  '  a  naivete  '  ? 

At  one  time  '  agony  is  something  which  inspires  pity ' 
{Jenseits  von  Gut  uiid  Base,  p.  136),  and  a  '  succession  of  crimes 
is  horrible  '  (Zt^r  Genealogie  der  Moral,  p.  21)  ;  and  then,  again, 
the  '  beauty  '  of  crime  is  spoken  of  {Jenseits  von  Gut  und  Base, 
p.  91),  and  complaint  is  made  that  'crime  is  calumniated '  (the 
same  book,  p.  123). 

Examples  enough  have  been  given.  I  do  not  wish  to  lose 
myself  in  minutiae  and  details,  but  I  believe  that  I  have  demon- 
strated Nietzsche's  own  contradiction  of  every  single  one  of  his 
fundamental  assertions,  most  emphatically  of  the  foremost  and 
most  important,  viz.,  that  the  '  1  '  is  the  one  real  thing,  that 
egoism  alone  is  necessitated  and  justifiable. 

If  the  conceits  which  he  wildly  ejaculates — as  it  were,  shrieks 
forth — are  examined  somewhat  more  closely,  we  cannot  but 
marvel  at  the  profusion  of  fabulous  stupidity  and  abecedarian 
ignorance  they  contain.  It  is  thus  he  terms  the  system  of 
Copernicus  {Jenseits  von  Gut  tmd  Bose),  'which  has  persuaded 
us,  against  all  the  senses,  that  the  earth  is  not  immovable,' 
'  the  greatest  triumph  over  the  senses  hitherto  achieved  on 
earth.'  Hence  he  does  not  suspect  that  the  system  of  Coper- 
nicus has  for  its  basis  exact  observation  of  the  starry  heavens, 
the  movements  of  the  moon  and  planets,  and  the  position  of 
the  sun  in  the  zodiac ;  that  this  system  was,  therefore,  the 
triumph  of  exact  sense-perceptions  over  sense-illusions — in 
other  words,  of  attentiveness  over  fugacity  and  distraction.  He 
believes  that  '  consciousness  developed  itself  under  the  pressure 
of  the  need  of  communication,'  for  '  conscious  thought  even- 
tuates in  words,  i.e.,  in  signs  of  communication,  by  which  fact 
the  origin  of  consciousness  itself  is  revealed  '  {Die  frdhliche 
Wissenschaft,  p.  280).  He  does  not  know,  then,  that  animals 
without  the  power  of  speech  also  have  a  consciousness  ;  that 
it  is  possible  also  to  think  in  images,  in  representations  of 
movement,  without  the  help  of  a  word,  and  that  speech  is  not 
added  to  consciousness  until  very  late  in  the  course  of  develop- 
ment. The  drollest  thing  is  that  Nietzsche  very  much  fancies 
himself  as  a  psychologist,  and  wishes  most  particularly  to  be 
esteemed  as  such  !  According  to  this  profound  man,  socialism 
has   its  roots  in   the  fact  that  '  hitherto  manufacturers   and 


EGO-MANIA  441 

entrepreneurs  lack  those  forms  and  signs  of  distinction  of  the 
higher  races  which  alone  make  persons  interesting ;  if  they 
had  in  look  and  gesture  the  distinction  of  those  born  noble, 
there  would,  perhaps,  be  no  socialism  of  the  masses  [!  !].  For 
the  latter  are  at  bottom  ready  for  slavery  of  every  kind,  on 
the  condition  that  the  higher  class  constantly  legitimizes  itself 
as  higher,  as  born  to  command,  by  outward  distinction '  [!  !] 
{Die  frdhliche  Wissenschaft,  p.  68).  The  concept  '  thou  oughtest,' 
the  idea  of  duty,  of  the  necessity  of  a  definite  measure  of  self- 
command,  is  a  consequence  of  the  fact  that  '  at  all  times  since 
men  have  existed,  human  herds  have  also  existed,  and  always 
a  very  large  number  of  those  who  obey  relatively  to  the  small 
number  of  those  who  command  {Jenseits  von  Gut  imd  Bose,  p.  118). 
Anyone  less  incapable  of  thought  than  Nietzsche  will  under- 
stand that,  on  the  contrary,  human  herds,  those  obeying  and 
those  commanding,  were  possible  at  all,  only  after  and  because 
the  brain  had  acquired  the  power  and  capacity  to  elaborate 
the  idea,  '  thou  oughtest,'  i.e.,  to  inhibit  an  impulse  by  a 
thought  or  a  judgment.  The  descendant  of  mixed  races  '  will 
on  the  average  be  a  weaker  being  '  {Jenseits  von  Gut  und  Base, 
p.  120)  ;  indeed,  the  '  European  Weltschmerz,  the  pessimism  of 
the  nineteenth  century,  is  essentially  the  consequence  of  a 
sudden  and  irrational  mixture  of  classes '  ;  social  classes,  how- 
ever, always  *  express  differences  of  origin  and  of  race  as  well ' 
{Zur  Genealogie  der  Moral,  p.  142).  The  most  competent 
investigators  are  convinced,  as  we  well  know,  that  the  crossing 
of  one  race  with  another  is  conducive  to  the  progress  of  both, 
and  is  'the  first  cause  of  development.'*  'Darwinism,  with 
its  incomprehensibly  one-sided  theory  of  the  struggle  for 
existence,'  is  explained  by  Darwin's  origin.  His  ancestors 
were  '  poor  and  humble  persons  who  were  only  too  familiar 
with  the  difficulty  of  making  both  ends  meet.  Around  the 
whole  of  English  Darwinism  there  floats,  as  it  were,  the 
mephitic  vapour  of  English  over-population,  the  odour  of 
humble  life,  of  pinched  and  straitened  circumstances '  {Die 
frdhliche  Wissenschaft,  p.  273).  It  is  presumably  known  to  all 
my  readers  that  Darwin  was  a  rich  man,  and  was  never  com- 
pelled to  follow  any  profession,  and  that,  for  at  least  three  or 
four  generations,  his  ancestors  had  lived  in  comfort. 

Nietzsche  lays  special  claim  to  extraordinary  originality. 
He  places  this  epigraph  at  the  beginning  of  his  Froliche 
Wissenschaft : 

*  I  live  in  a  house  that's  ray  own, 
I've  never  in  nought  copied  no  one, 
And  at  every  Master  I've  had  my  laugh, 
Who  had  not  first  laughed  at  himself.' 

*  C,   Lombroso  and  R.   Laschi,  Le  Crime  politique  et  les  Revolutions. 
Paris,  1892,  t.  i.,  p.  142. 


442  DEGENERATION 

His  disciples  belie\e  in  this  brag,  and,  with  upturned  eyes, 
bleat  it  after  him  in  sheep-like  chorus.  The  profound  ignorance 
of  this  flock  of  ruminants  permits  them,  forsooth,  to  believe  in 
Nietzsche's  originality.  As  they  have  never  learnt,  read,  or 
thought  about,  anything,  all  that  they  pick  up  in  bars,  or  in 
their  loafings,  is  naturally  new  and  hitherto  non-existent. 
Anyone,  however,  who  regards  Nietzsche  relatively  to  analo- 
gous phenomena  of  the  age,  will  recognise  that  his  pretended 
originalities  and  temerities  are  the  greasiest  commonplaces, 
such  as  a  decent  self-respecting  thinker  would  not  touch  with 
a  pair  of  tongs. 

Whenever  he  rants,  Nietzsche  is  no  doubt  really  original. 
On  such  occasions  his  expressions  contain  no  sense  at  all,  not 
even  nonsense  ;  hence  it  is  impossible  to  unite  them  with  any- 
thing previously  thought  or  said.  When,  on  the  contrary, 
there  is  a  shimmer  of  reason  in  his  v/ords,  we  at  once  recognise 
them  as  having  their  origin  in  the  paradoxes  or  platitudes  of 
others.  Nietzsche's  *  individualism  '  is  an  exact  reproduction 
of  Max  Stirner,  a  crazy  Hegelian,  who  fifty  years  ago  exag- 
gerated and  involuntarily  turned  into  ridicule  the  critical 
idealism  of  his  master  to  the  extent  of  monstrously  inflating 
the  importance — even  the  grossly  empirical  importance — of  the 
*  I  ' ;  whom,  even  in  his  own  day,  no  one  took  seriously,  and 
who  since  then  had  fallen  into  well-merited  profound  oblivion, 
from  which  at  the  present  time  a  few  anarchists  and  philo- 
sophical '  fops  ' — for  the  hysteria  of  the  time  has  created 
such  beings — seek  to  disinter  him.*  Where  Nietzsche  extols 
the  '  I,'  its  rights,  its  claims,  the  necessity  of  cultivating  and 
developing  it,  the  reader  who  has  in  mind  the  preceding 
chapters  of  this  book  will  recognise  the  phrases  of  Barres, 
Wilde,  and  Ibsen.  His  philosophy  of  will  is  appropriated  from 
Schopenhauer,  who  throughout  has  directed  his  thought  and 
given  colour  to  his  language.  The  complete  similarity  of  his 
phrases  concerning  will  with  Schopenhauer's  theory  has  evi- 
dently penetrated  to  his  own  consciousness  and  made  him 
uncomfortable ;  for,  in  order  to  obliterate  it,  he  has  placed  a 
false  nose  of  his  own  invention  on  the  cast  he  has  made,  viz., 
he  contests  the  fact  that  the  motive  force  in  every  being  is  the 
desire  for  self-preservation  ;  in  his  view  it  is  rather  the  desire 
for  power.  This  addition  is  pure  child's  play.  In  the  lower 
orders  of  living  beings  it  is  never  a  *  desire  for  power,'  but  always 
only  a  desire  for  self-preservation,  that  is  perceptible ;  and 
among  men  this  seeming  '  desire  for  power '  can,  by  anyone 

*  R.  Schellwien,  op.  cit.,  p.  7  :  'The  literary  activity  of  the  two  thinkers  [!] 
is  separated  by  more  than  fifty  years  ;  but  great  as  may  be  the  difference 
between  them,  the  agreement  is  not  less,  and  thus  the  essential  characters  of 
systematic  individualism  are  presented  with  all  the  more  distinctness.' 


EGO-MANIA  443 

but  the  *  deep'  Nietzsche,  be  traced  to  two  well-known  roots — 
either  to  the  effort  to  make  all  organs  act  to  the  limit  of  their 
functional  capacity,  which  is  connected  with  feelings  of  plea- 
sure, or  to  procure  for  themselves  advantages  ameliorative  of 
the  conditions  of  existence  But  the  effort  towards  feelings 
of  pleasure  and  better  conditions  of  existence  is  nothing  but  a 
form  of  the  phenomenon  of  the  desire  for  existence,  and  he  who 
regards  the  '  desire  for  power  '  as  anything  different  from,  and 
even  opposed  to,  the  desire  for  existence,  simply  gives  evidence 
of  his  incapacity  to  pursue  this  idea  of  the  desire  for  existence 
any  distance  beyond  the  length  of  his  nose.  Nietzsche's  chief 
proof  of  the  difference  between  the  desire  for  power  and  the 
desire  for  existence  is  that  the  former  often  drives  the  desirer  to 
the  contemning  and  endangering,  even  to  the  destruction,  of  his 
own  hfe.  But  in  that  case  the  whole  struggle  for  existence,  in 
which  dangers  are  continually  incurred,  and  for  that  matter 
are  often  enough  sought,  would  also  be  a  proof  that  the 
struggler  did  not  desire  his  existence!  Nietzsche  would, 
indeed,  be  quite  capable  of  asserting  this  also. 

The  degenerates  with  whom  we  have  become  acquainted 
affirm  that  they  do  not  trouble  themselves  concerning  Nature 
and  its  laws.  Nietzsche  is  not  so  far  advanced  in  self- 
sufficiency  as  Rossetti,  to  whom  it  was  a  matter  of  indifference 
whether  the  earth  revolved  around  the  sun  or  the  sun  around 
the  earth.  He  openly  avows  that  this  is  not  a  matter  of  in- 
difference to  him ;  he  regrets  it ;  it  troubles  him,  that  the 
earth  is  no  longer  the  central  point  of  the  universe,  and  he  the 
chief  thing  on  the  earth.  *  Since  Copernicus,  man  seems  to 
have  fallen  upon  an  inclined  plane  ;  he  is  now  rolling  ever 
faster  away  from  the  central  point — whither  ? — into  the 
nothing  ?  into  the  j>iercing  feeling  of  his  nothingness  ?'  He 
is  very  angry  with  Copernicus  concerning  this.  Not  only 
with  Copernicus,  but  with  science  in  general,  '  All  science  is 
at  present  busied  in  talking  man  out  of  the  self-respect  he  has 
hitherto  possessed,  just  as  if  this  had  been  nothing  but  a 
bizarre  self-conceit '  {Zur  Genealogie  der  Moral,  p.  173).  Is 
this  not  an  echo  of  the  words  of  Oscar  Wilde,  who  complains 
that  Nature  *  is  so  indifferent'  to  him,  *  so  unappreciative,'  and 
that  he  '  is  no  more  to  Nature  than  the  cattle  that  browse  on 
the  slope  '  ? 

In  other  places,  again,  we  find  the  current  of  thought  and 
almost  the  very  words  of  Oscar  Wilde,  Huysmans,  and  other 
Diabolists  and  Decadents.  The  passage  in  Zur  Genealogie  der 
Moral  (p.  171)  in  which  he  glorifies  art,  because  '  in  it  the  lie 
sanctifies  itself,  and  the  will  to  deceive  has  a  quiet  conscience 
on  its  side,'  might  be  in  the  chapter  in  Wilde's  Intentions  on 
*The    Decay  of   Lying,'  as,  conversely,    Wilde's   aphorisms: 


444  DEGENERATION 

'There  is  no  sin  except  stupidity.'  *  An  idea  that  is  not 
dangerous  is  unworthy  of  being  called  an  idea  at  all.'  And  his 
praises  of  Wainwright,  the  poisoner,  are  in  exact  agreement 
with  Nietzsche's  '  morality  of  assassins,'  and  the  latter's 
remarks  that  crime  is  calumniated,  and  that  the  defender  of 
the  criminal  is  '  oftenest  not  artist  enough  to  turn  the  beau- 
tiful terribleness  of  the  crime  to  the  advantage  of  the  doer.' 
Again,  by  way  of  joke,  compare  these  passages :  '  It  is  neces- 
sary to  get  rid  of  the  bad  taste  of  wishing  to  agree  with  many. 
Good  is  no  longer  good  when  a  neighbour  says  it's  good  ' 
(Nietzsche,  Jenseits  von  Gut  und  Bose,  p.  54),  and  'Ah!  don't 
say  that  you  agree  with  me.  When  people  agree  with  me,  I 
always  feel  that  I  must  be  wrong '  (Oscar  Wilde,  Intentions, 
p.  202).  This  is  more  than  a  resemblance,  is  it  not  ?  To  avoid 
being  too  diffuse,  I  abstain  from  citing  passages  exactly  re- 
sembling these  from  Huysmans'  A  Rebours,  and  from  Ibsen. 
At  the  same  time  it  is  unquestionable  that  Nietzsche  could  not 
have  known  the  French  Decadents  and  English  ^Esthetes 
whom  he  so  frequently  approaches,  because  his  books  are  in 
part  antecedent  to  those  of  the  latter ;  and  neither  could  they 
have  drawn  from  him,  because,  perhaps  with  the  exception 
of  Ibsen,  it  is  only  about  two  years  since  they  could  have 
heard  as  much  as  Nietzsche's  name.  The  similarity,  or  rather 
identity,  is  not  explained  by  plagiarism  ;  it  is  explained  by  the 
identity  of  mental  qualities  in  Nietzsche  and  the  other  ego- 
maniacal  degenerates. 

Nietzsche  presents  a  specially  droll  aspect  when  he  confronts 
truth,  in  order  to  declare  it  unnecessary,  or  even  to  deny  its 
existence,  '  Why  not  rather  untruth  ?  And  uncertainty  ?  Or 
even  ignorance?'  {Jenseits  von  Gut  und  Bose,  p.  3).  'What, 
after  all,  are  the  truths  of  man  ?  They  are  the  irrefutable 
errors  of  man'  {Die  frohliche  Wissenschaft,  p.  193).  'The  will 
for  truth — that  might  be  a  hidden  will  for  death  '  {Ibid.,  p.  263). 
The  section  of  this  book  in  which  he  deals  with  the  question 
of  truth  is  entitled  by  him,  'We  the  Fearless,'  and  he  prefixes 
to  it,  as  a  motto,  Turenne's  utterance  :  '  Thou  tremblest,  car- 
cass ?  Thou  wouldst  tremble  much  more  if  thou  knewest 
whither  I  shall  soon  lead  thee  !'  And  what  is  this  terrible 
danger  into  which  the  fearless  one  runs  with  such  heroic 
mien  ?  The  investigation  of  the  essence  and  value  of  truth. 
But  this  investigation  is  really  the  A  B  C  of  all  serious  philo- 
sophy !  The  question  as  to  whether  objective  truth  exists  at 
all  has  been  also  drawn  up  by  him,*  it  is  true  with  less  blowing 
of  trumpets,  beating  of  drums,  and  shaking  of  locks,  as  its 
prologue,  accompaniment,  and  conclusion.  It  is,  moreover, 
highly  characteristic  that  the  same  dragon-slayer  who,  with 

♦  See,  in  my  Paradoxe,  the  chapter  '  Wo  ist  die  Wahrheit  ? 


EGO-MANIA  445 

such  swaggering  and  snorting  takes  up  the  challenge  against 

*  truth,'  finds  submissive  words  of  most  humble  apology  when 
he  ventures  very  gently  to  doubt  the  perfection  of  Goethe  in 
all  his  pieces.  Speaking  of  the  *  viscosity '  and  *  tediousness  '  of 
the  German  style,  he  says  (Jenseits  von  Giif  imd  Bose,  p.  39)  : 

*  I  may  be  pardoned  for  affirming  that  even  Goethe's  prose, 
with  its  mixture  of  stiffness  and  grace,  is  no  exception.'  When 
he  timidly  criticises  Goethe,  he  begs  pardon ;  his  heroic 
attitude  of  contempt  for  death  is  assumed  only  when  he  chal- 
lenges  morality  and  truth  to  combat.     That   is   to  say,   this 

*  fearless  one  '  possesses  the  cunning  often  observed  among  the 
insane,  and  comprehends  that  there  is  absolutely  no  danger 
in  his  babbling  before  the  imbeciles  composing  his  congre- 
gation, that  fabulous  philosophical  nonsense,  at  which,  on  the 
contrary,  they  would  be  much  enraged  the  instant  it  shocked 
their  aesthetic  convictions  or  prejudices. 

Even  in  the  minutest  details  it  is  surprising  how  Nietzsche 
agrees,  word  for  word,  with  the  other  ego-maniacs  with  whom 
we  have  become  acquainted.  Compare,  for  example,  the 
phrase  in  Jenseits  von  Gut  und  Bose,  p.  168,  where  he  vaunts, 

*  What  is  really  noble  in  works  and  in  men,  their  moment 
of  smooth  sea  and  halcyon  self-sufficiency,  the  golden  and 
the  cool,'  with  Baudelaire's  praise  of  immobility  and  his 
enraptured  description  of  a  metallic  landscape  ;  or  the  remarks 
of  Des  Esseintes,  and  the  side-thrusts  at  the  press  put  by 
Ibsen  into  the  mouths  of  his  characters,  with  the  insults 
continually  heaped  on  newspapers  by  Nietzsche.  '  Great 
ascetic  spirits  have  an  abhorrence  of  bustle,  veneration, 
newspaper'  {Zur  Genealogie  der  Moral,  p.  113).  The  cause 
of  *  the  undeniably  gradual  and  already  tangible  desolation  of 
the  German  mind  '  lies  in  being  'all  too  exclusively  nourished 
on  newspapers,  politics,  beer,  and  Wagnerian  music  '  {Ibid., 
p.  177).  '  Behold  these  superfluities  !  .  .  .  They  vomit  their  bile, 
and  name  it  a  newspaper'  (Also sprach Zarathnstra,  pt.  i,,  p.  67). 

*  Dost  thou  not  see  the  souls  hanging  like  limp  dirty  rags  ? 
And  they  make  newspapers  out  of  those  rags !  Hearest  thou 
not  how  the  spirit  has  here  become  a  play  on  words  ?  He 
vomits  a  loathsome  swill  of  words.  And  of  this  swill  of  words 
they  make  newspapers !'  {Ibid.,  pt.  iii.,  p.  37).  It  would  be 
possible  to  multiply  these  examples  tenfold,  for  Nietzsche  harks 
back  to  every  idea  with  an  obstinacy  enough  to  make  the 
most  patient  reader  of  sound  taste  go  wild. 

Such  is  the  appearance  presented  by  Nietzsche's  originality. 
This  '  original '  and  '  audacious  '  thinker,  imitating  the  familiar 
practices  of  tradesmen  at  '  sales,'  endeavours  to  palm  off  as 
brand  new  goods  the  most  shop-worn  rubbish  of  great 
philosophers.     His  most  powerful  assaults  are  directed  against 


446  DEGENERATION 

doors  that  stand  open.  This  *  solitary  one,'  this  *  dweller  on 
'the  highest  mountain  peaks,'  exhibits  by  the  dozen  the 
physiognomy  of  all  decadents.  He  who  is  continually  talking 
with  the  utmost  contempt  of  the  '  herd  '  and  the  '  herd-animal ' 
is  himself  the  most  ordinary  herd-animal  of  all.  Only  the 
herd  to  which  he  belongs,  body  and  soul,  is  a  special  one  ; 
it  is  the  flock  of  the  mangy  sheep. 

Upon  one  occasion  the  habitual  cunning  of  the  insane  has 
deserted  him,  and  he  has  himself  revealed  to  us  the  source 
of  his  '  original '  philosophy.  The  passage  is  so  characteristic 
that  I  must  quote  it  at  length  : 

*  The  first  impetus,  to  make  known  something  of  my 
hypotheses  concerning  the  origin  of  morality,  was  given  me 
by  a  clear,  tidy,  and  clever — ay,  precocious  [!] — little  book,  in 
which  there  was  for  the  first  time  presented  to  me  an  inverted 
and  perverted  kind  of  genealogical  hypotheses,  the  truly 
English  kind,  and  which  attracted  me  with  that  attractive 
force  possessed  by  everything  contrary,  everything  antipodal. 
The  title  of  this  little  book  was  Der  Ursprung  der  moralischen 
Empfindunger  ["  The  Origin  of  Moral  Sensations  "] ;  its  author. 
Dr.  Paul  Ree  ;  the  j^ear  of  its  publication,  1877.  I  have, 
perhaps,  never  read  anything  to  which  I  have  in  the  same 
measure  mentally  said  "  No  "  as  I  did  to  every  proposition 
and  every  conclusion  in  this  book,  yet  without  anger  or 
impatience.  In  the  previously-mentioned  work  on  which  I 
was  at  that  time  engaged  [Menschliches  Allzumenschliches — 
["Things  Human,  Things  all  too  Human  "],  I  referred,  in  season 
and  out  of  season,  to  the  propositions  of  that  book,  not 
refuting  them — what  have  I  to  do  with  refutations  ? — but,  as 
befits  a  positive  spirit,  to  substitute  the  more  probable  for 
the  improbable,  and  at  times  one  error  for  another'  {Zur 
Genealogie  der  Moral,  p.  7). 

This  gives  the  reader  the  key  to  Nietzsche's  '  originality.' 
It  consists  in  simple  infantile  inversion  of  a  rational  train  of 
thought.  If  Nietzsche  imagines  that  his  insane  negations  and 
contradictions  grew  spontaneously  in  his  head,  he  is  really 
the  victim  of  a  self-delusion.  His  rant  may  have  existed  in 
his  mind  before  he  had  read  Dr.  Ree's  book.  But  in  that 
case  it  had  sprung  up  as  a  contradiction  to  other  books  without 
his  having  been  so  clearly  conscious  of  its  origin  as  after  the 
perusal  of  Dr.  Ree's  work.  But  he  pushes  the  self-delusion 
to  an  incredible  height,  in  terming  himself  a  '  positive  spirit,' 
after  he  has  just  frankly  confessed  his  method  of  procedure, 
viz.,  that  he  does  not  '  refute ' — he  would  not  have  found  that 
so  easy,  either — but  that  'to  every  proposition  and  every  con- 
clusion   he  says  *  No  !' 

This    explanation   of  the   source   of   his    'original'    moral 


EGO-MANIA  447 

philosophy  comprehends  in  itself  a  diagnosis,  which  at  once 
obtrudes  on  the  most  short-sighted  eye.  Nietzsche's  system 
is  the  product  of  the  mania  of  contradiction,  the  delirious 
form  of  that  mental  derangement,  of  which  the  melancholic 
form  is  the  mania  of  douht  and  negation,  treated  of  in  the 
earlier  chapters  of  this  work.  His  folic  des  negations  betrays 
itself  also  in  his  peculiarities  of  language.  There  is  ever  in 
his  consciousness  a  questioning  impulse  like  a  mark  of  inter- 
rogation.    Of  no  word  is  he  so  fond  as  of  the  interrogative 

*  What  ?'  constantly  used  by  him  in  the  most  marvellous 
connection,*  and  he  makes  use  ad  nauseam  of  the  turn  of 
expression,  that  one  should  '  say  No '  to  this  and  that,  that 
this  one  and  that  one  is  a  'No-sayer' — an  expression  which 
suggests  to  him  by  association  the  same  immeasurably  frequent 
use  of  the  contrary  expression,  '  say  Yes '  and  '  Yes-sayer.'    This 

*  saying-No'  and  '  saying- Yes  '  is  in  his  case  a  veritable  Para- 
phasia vesana,  or  insane  language  opposed  to  usage,  as  the 
reader  is  shown  by  the  examples  cited  in  foot-note. f 

*  '  With  what  magic  she  lays  hold  of  me!  What?  Has  all  the  world's 
repose  embarked  here?'  'What  use  has  the  inspired  one  for  wine?  What? 
Give  the  mole  wings  and  proud  imaginings .'''  '  In  so  far  as  he  says  Yes  to 
this  other  world,  what?  must  he  not  then  say  No  to  its  counterpart,  this 
world  ?'  '  Round  about  God  all  becomes — what  ?  perhaps  world  ?'  '  A 
pessimist  .  .  .  who  says  Yes  to  morality  ...  to  lcsde-ne)niiiem<-mora.\\iy  ; 
what?  is  that  really — a  pessimist?'  'Fear  and  pity  :  with  these  feelings  has 
man  hitherto  stood  in  the  presence  of  woman.  What  ?  Is  there  now  to  be 
an  end  of  this  T  I  will  content  myself  with  these  examples,  but  let  it  be 
remarked  once  for  all,  that  all  the  specimens  I  adduce  here  for  the  purpose 
of  examining  Nietzsche's  mental  state  could  easily  be  multiplied  a  hundred- 
fold, as  the  characteristic  peculiarities  recur  in  him  hundreds  of  times. 
On  one  occasion  he  plainly  becomes  conscious  of  this  living  note  of  in- 
terrogation, always  present  in  his  mind  as  an  obsession.  In  Also  sprach 
Zarathttsira,  pt.  iii.,  p.  55,  he  calls  the  passion  for  rule,  'the  flashing  note  of 
interrogation  by  the  side  of  premature  answers.'  In  this  connection,  this 
expression  has  absolutely  no  sense  ;  but  it  at  once  becomes  intelligible  when 
it  is  remembered  that  the  insane  are  in  the  habit  of  suddenly  giving  utter- 
ance to  the  ideas  springing  up  in  their  consciousness.  Nietzsche  plainly 
saw  in  his  mind  '  the  flashing  note  of  interrogation,'  and  suddenly,  and  with- 
out transition,  spoke  of  it. 

t  'A  Greek  life,  to  which  he  said,  No.'  'A  pessimist  who  not  merely 
says.  No,  wishes  No  [!]  but  who  .  .  .  does  No'  [!!].  'An  inward  saying 
No  to  this  or  that  thing.'  '  Free  for  death,  and  free  in  death,  a  holy  No- 
sayer.'  Then  as  a  complementary  counterpart  :  'Pregnant  with  lightnings, 
who  say,  Yes  !  laugh  Yes  !'  '  While  all  noble  morality  grows  to  itself  out  of 
a  triumphant  saymg  Yea.'  (He  feels  himself  to  be  something)  'at  least 
saying  Yea  to  life.'  '  To  be  able  to  say  Yea  to  yourself,  that  is  ...  a  ripe 
fruit '  (Disinterested  wickedness  is  felt  by  primitive  humanity  to  be  some- 
thing) '  to  which  conscience  valiantly  says  Yea.'  We  see  what  use  Nietzsche 
makes  of  his  saying  '  Nay'  and  '  Yea.'  It  stands  in  the  place  of  nearly  all 
verbs  joining  subject  with  predicate.  The  thought  '  I  am  thirsty  '  would,  by 
Nietzsche,  be  thus  expressed,  'I  say  Yes  to  water.'  Instead  of  'I  am 
sleepy,'  he  would  say,  '  I  say  Nay  to  wakefulness,'  or,  '  I  say  Yes  to  bed,' 
etc.  This  is  the  way  in  which  invalids  in  incomplete  aphasia  are  in  the 
habit  of  paraphrasing  their  thoughts. 


448  DEGENERATION 

Nietzsche's  assurance  that  *  without  anger  or  impatience'  he 
*  said  No '  to  all  Ree's  assertions  may  be  believed.  Persons 
afflicted  with  the  mania  of  doubt  and  of  denial  do  not  get 
angry  when  they  question  or  contradict ;  they  do  this  under 
the  coercion  of  their  mental  derangement.  But  those  among 
them  who  are  delirious  have  the  conscious  intention  of  making 
others  angry,  even  if  they  themselves  are  not  so.  On  this 
point  Nietzsche  allows  an  avowal  to  escape  him  :  *  My  mode 
of  thought  demands  a  warlike  soul,  a  wish  to  give  pain,  a 
pleasure  in  saying,  No  '  {Die  frohliche  Wissenschaft,  p.  63).  This 
confession  may  be  compared  with  the  passages  from  Ibsen  : 
'  You  were  becoming  reckless  !  In  reality  that  you  might  anger 
these  affected  beings  of  both  sexes  here  in  the  town  ' ;  and, 
'  Something  shall  happen  which  will  be  a  slap  in  the  face  to 
all  this  decorum  '  {The  Pillars  of  Society). 

The  origin  of  one  of  the  most  'original'  of  Nietzsche's 
doctrines,  viz.,  the  explanation  of  conscience  as  a  satisfaction 
of  the  instinct  of  cruelty  through  inner  self-rending,  has  already 
been  gone  into  by  Dr.  Tiirck,  in  an  excellent  little  work.  He 
very  justly  recognises  the  diseased  state  of  moral  aberration 
at  the  base  of  this  insane  idea,*  and  continues  thus  : 

*  Let  us  now  picture  to  ourselves  a  man  of  this  kind,  with  innate 
instincts  of  murder,  or  in  general  with  '  Anomalies  or  perversion 
of  the  moral  feelings'  (Mendel) ;  at  the  same  time  highly  gifted, 
with  the  best  instruction  and  an  excellent  education,  reared  in 
the  midst  of  agreeable  circumstances,  and  under  the  careful 
.  .  .  nurture  of  women  .  .  .  and  occupying  at  an  early  age  a  pro- 
minent position  in  society.  It  is  clear  that  the  better  moral 
instincts  must  gain  such  strength  as  to  be  able  to  drive  back 
to  the  deepest  inner  depths  the  bestial  instinct  of  destruction 
and  completely  to  curb  it,  yet  without  wholly  annihilating  it.  It 
may  not,  indeed,  be  able  to  manifest  itself  in  deeds,  but,  because 
it  is  inborn,  the  instinct  remains  in  existence  as  an  unfulfilled 
wish,  cherished  in  the  inmost  heart  ...  as  an  ardent  desire 
...  to  yield  itself  up  to  its  cruel  lust.  But  every  non-satis- 
faction of  a  .  .  .  deeply  imprinted  instinct  has  as  its  conse- 
quence pain  and  inner  torment.  Now,  we  men  are  very  much 
inclined  to  regard  as  naturally  good  and  justifiable  that  which 
gives  us  decided  pleasure,  and  conversely  to  reprobate,  as  bad 
and  contrary  to  nature,  that  which  produces  pain.  Thus,  it 
may  happen  that  an  intellectual  and  highly  gifted  man,  born 
with  perverted  instincts,  and  feeling  as  torment  .  .  .  the  non- 
satisfaction  of  the  instinct,  will  hit  upon  the  idea  of  justifying 
the  passion  for  murder,  the  extremest  egoism  ...  as  some- 
thing good,  beautiful,  and  according  to  Nature,  and  to  char- 

*  Dr.  Hermann  Tiirck,  Fr.  Nietzsche  unci  seine  philosophischen  Jrrwege^ 
Zweite  Auflage.     Dresden,  1891,  p.  7. 


EGO-MANIA  449 

acterize  as  morbid  aberration  the  better  opposingmoral  instincts, 
manifesting  themselves  in  us  as  that  which  we  call  conscience. 

Dr.  Tiirck  is  right  in  admitting  Nietzsche's  innate  moral 
aberration  and  the  inversion  in  him  of  healthy  instincts. 
Nevertheless,  in  the  interpretation  of  the  particular  phenomena 
in  which  the  aberration  manifests  itself,  he  commits  an  error, 
which  is  explained  by  the  fact  that  Dr.  Tiirck  is  seemingly  not 
deeply  conversant  with  mental  therapeutics.  He  assumes  that 
in  Nietzsche's  mind  the  evil  instincts  are  in  severe  conflict 
•with,  those  better  notions  instilled  in  him  by  education,  and 
that  he  experiences  as  pain  the  suppression  of  his  instincts  by 
judgment.  That  is  hardly  the  true  state  of  the  case.  It  is 
not  necessary  that  Nietzsche  should  have  the  wish  to  commit 
murder  and  other  crimes.  Not  every  aberrant  person  (pervers) 
is  subject  to  impulsions.  The  perversion  may  be  limited 
exclusively  to  the  sphere  of  ideation,  and  get  its  satisfaction 
wholly  in  ideas.  A  subject  thus  affected  never  gets  the  notion 
of  transforming  his  ideas  into  deeds.  His  derangement  does 
not  encroach  upon  the  centres  of  will  and  movement,  but 
carries  on  its  fell  work  within  the  centres  of  ideation.  We 
know  forms  of  sexual  perversion  in  which  the  sufferers 
never  experience  the  impulse  to  seek  satisfaction  in  acts,  and 
who  revel  only  in  thought  *  This  astonishing  rupture  of  the 
natural  connection  between  idea  and  movement,  between 
thought  and  act,  this  detachment  of  the  organs  of  will  and 
movement  from  the  organs  of  conception  and  judgment  which 
they  normally  obey,  is  in  itself  a  proof  of  deepest  disorder 
throughout  the  machinery  of  thought.  Incompetent  critics 
eagerly  point  to  the  fact  that  many  authors  and  artists  live 
unexceptionable  lives  in  complete  contrast  to  their  works, 
which  may  be  immoral  or  contrary  to  nature,  and  deduce  from 
this  fact  that  it  is  unjustifiable  to  draw  from  his  works  con- 
clusions as  to  the  mental  and  moral  Nature  of  their  author. 
Those  who  talk  in  this  manner  do  not  even  suspect  that  there 
are  purely  mental  perversions  which  are  quite  as  much  a 
mental  disease  as  the  impulsions  of  the  '  impulsivists.' 

This  is  obviously  the  case  with  Nietzsche.  His  perversion 
is  of  a  purely  intellectual  character,  and  has  hardly  ever  im- 
pelled him  to  acts.  Hence,  in  his  mind  there  has  been  no 
conflict    between    instincts    and    the    morality    acquired    by 

*  B.  Ball,  La  Folie  drotique,  Paris,  1888,  p.  50  :  '  I  have  sketched  for  you 
the  picture  of  chaste  love  (amorous  lunacy,  or  the  erotomania  of  Esquirol), 
where  the  greatest  excesses  remain  enclosed  within  the  limits  of  feeling,  and 
are  never  polluted  by  the  intervention  of  the  senses.  I  have  shown  you 
some  examples  of  this  delirium  pushed  to  the  extreme  bounds  of  insanity, 
without  the  intermixture  of  a  single  idea  foreign  to  the  domain  of  platonic 
affection.' 

29 


450  DEGENERATION 

education.  His  explanation  of  conscience  has  quite  another 
source  than  that  assumed  by  Dr.  Tiirck.  It  is  one  of  those 
perverted  interpretations  of  a  sensation  by  the  consciousness 
perceiving  it  which  are  so  frequently  observed.  Nietzsche 
remarks  that  with  him  ideas  of  a  cruel  kind  are  accompanied 
by  feelings  of  pleasure — that  they  are,  as  mental  therapeutics 
expresses  it,  '  voluptuously  accentuated.'  In  consequence  of 
this  accompaniment  of  pleasure  he  has  the  inchnation  to 
conjure  up  sensually  sensuous  representations  of  that  kind, 
and  to  dwell  on  them  with  enjoyment.*  Consciousness  then 
seeks  to  give  some  sort  of  rational  explanation  of  these  ex- 
periences by  assuming  cruelty  to  be  a  powerful  primordial 
instinct  of  man,  that,  since  he  may  not  actually  commit  cruel 
deeds,  he  may,  at  least,  take  pleasure  in  the  representation 
of  them,  and  that  the  rapturous  lingering  over  representations 
of  this  kind,  man  calls  his  conscience.  As  I  have  shown  above, 
it  is  Nietzsche's  opinion  that  stings  of  conscience  are  not  the 
consequence  of  evil  deeds,  but  appear  in  men  who  have  never 
committed  any  evil.  Hence  he  obviously  makes  use  of  the 
word  in  a  sense  quite  different  from  that  of  current  usage,  a 
sense  peculiar  to  himself;  he  designates  by  it,  simply  his 
revelling  in  voluptuously  accentuated  representations  of 
cruelty. 

The  alienist,  however,  is  familiar  with  the  perversion  in 
which  the  invahd  experiences  voluptuous  stimulation  from  acts 
or  representations  of  a  cruel  nature.  Science  has  a  name  for 
it.  It  is  called  Sadism.  Sadism  is  the  opposite  form  of 
sexual  perversion  to  masochism. f  Nietzsche  is  a  sufferer  from 
Sadism    in  its    most    pronounced    form,  only  with  him    it   is 

*  In  one  passage  of  Zur  Genealogie  der  Moral,  p.  132,  Nietzsche  speaks 
of  the  'species  of  moral  onanists  and  self-indulgers.'  He  does  not  apply  the 
expression  to  himself;  but  it  was  unquestionably  suggested  by  an  obscure 
suspicion  of  his  own  state  of  mind. 

f  Dr.  R.  von  Krafft-Ebing,  Neue  Forschiino^en,  u.  s.  w.,  p.  45^/  'The 
complete  contrary  of  masochism  is  Sadism.  While  in  the  former  the  subject 
desires  to  suffer  sorrows,  and  to  feel  himself  in  subjection  to  violence,  in  the 
latter  his  aim  is  to  cause  sorrows,  and  to  exercise  violence.  .  .  .  All  the 
acts  and  situations  carried  out  in  the  active  part  played  by  Sadism  con- 
stitute, for  masochism,  the  object  of  longing,  to  be  attained  passively.  In 
both  perversions  these  acts  form  a  progression  from  purely  symbolic  events 
to  grievous  misdeeds.  .  .  .  Both  are  to  be  considered  as  original  psycho- 
pathies of  mentally  abnormal  individuals,  afflicted  in  particular  with  psychic 
HypercEsthesia  sextialis^  but  also,  as  a  rule,  with  other  anomalies.  .  .  . 
The  pleasure  of  causing  sorrow  and  the  pleasure  of  experiencing  sorrow 
appear  only  as  two  different  sides  of  the  same  psychic  event,  the  primary 
and  essential  principle  in  which  is  the  consciousness  of  active  and  passive 
subjection  respectively.'  See  Nietzsche,  Also  sprach  ZaratJmstra^  pt.  i., 
p.  95  :  'Thou  art  going  to  women?  Forget  not  the  whip  !'  Jcnscits  von 
Gilt  und  Dose,  p.  186  :  '  Woman  unlearns  the  fear  of  man,'  and  thus  'exposes 
her  mobt  womanly  instincts.' 


EGO-MANIA  451 

confined  to  the  intellectual  sphere  alone,  and  is  satisfied  by- 
ideal  debauchery.  I  do  not  wish  to  dwell  too  long  on 
this  repulsive  subject,  and  will,  therefore,  quote  only  a  few 
passages,  showing  that,  in  Nietzsche's  thought,  images  of 
cruelty  are  without  exception  accompanied  by  ideas  of  a 
sensual  character,  and  are  italicized  by  him  :  *  The  splendid 
beast  ranging  in  its  lust  after  prey  and  victory '  {Zur  Genealogie 
der  Moral,  p.  21).  '  The  feeling  of  content  at  being  able,  without 
scruple,  to  wreak  his  power  on  a  powerless  being,  the  voluptuous- 
ness de  faire  le  mal  pour  le  plaisir  de  le  faire,  the  enjoyment  of 
vanquishing'  {Ibid.,  ^.  51).  'Do  your  pleasure,  ye  wantons; 
roar  for  very  lust  and  wickedness '  {Die  frohliche  Wissenschaft, 
p.  226).  *  The  path  to  one's  own  heaven  ever  leads  through 
the  voluptviousness  of  one's  own  hell*  {Ibid.,  p.  249).  'How 
comes  it  that  I  have  yet  met  no  one  .  .  .  who  knew  morality 
as  a  problem,  and  this  problem  as  his  personal  distress, 
torment,  voluptuousness,  passion  ?'  {Ibid.,  p.  264).  '  Hitherto 
he  has  felt  most  at  ease  on  earth  at  the  sight  of  tragedies, 
bull-fights,  and  crucifixions  ;  and  when  he  invented  hell,  behold, 
that  was  his  heaven  on  earth.  When  the  great  man  cries 
aloud,  the  little  man  runs  swiftly  thither,  and  his  tongue  hangs 
out  from  his  throat  for  very  lusting '  {A  Iso  sprach  Zarathustra, 
pt.  iii.,  p.  96),  etc.  I  beg  the  unprofessional  reader  par- 
ticularly to  observe  the  association  of  the  words  italicized 
with  those  expressing  something  evil.  This  association  is 
neither  accidental  nor  arbitrary.  It  is  a  psychical  necessity, 
for  in  Nietzsche's  consciousness  no  image  of  wickedness  and 
crime  can  arise  without  exciting  him  sexually,  and  he  is  unable 
to  experience  any  sexual  stimulation  without  the  immediate 
appearance  in  his  consciousness  of  an  image  of  some  deed  of 
violence  and  blood. 

Hence  the  real  source  of  Nietzsche's  doctrine  is  his  Sadism. 
And  I  will  here  make  a  general  remark  on  which  I  do  not 
desire  to  linger,  but  which  I  should  like  to  recommend 
to  the  particular  attention  of  the  reader.-  In  the  success  of 
unhealthy  tendencies  in  art  and  literature,  no  quality  of  their 
authors  has  so  large  and  determining  a  share  as  their  sexual 
psychopathy.  All  persons  of  unbalanced  minds — the  neuras- 
thenic, the  hysteric,  the  degenerate,  the  insane— have  the 
keenest  scent  for  perversions  of  a  sexual  kind,  and  perceive 
them  under  all  disguises.  As  a  rule,  indeed,  they  are  ignorant 
of  what  it  is  in  certain  works  and  artists  which  pleases  them, 
but  investigation  always  reveals  in  the  object  of  their  pre- 
dilection a  veiled  manifestation  of  some  Psychopathia  sexualis. 
The  masochism  of  Wagner  and  Ibsen,  the  Skoptzism  of 
Tolstoi,  the  erotomania  {folie  mnovLretise  chaste)  of  the  Diabolists, 
the  Decadents,  and   of  Nietzsche,  unquestionably  obtain  for 


452  DEGENERATION 

these  authors  and  tendencies  a  large,  and,  at  all  events,  the 
most  sincere  and  fanatical  fraction  of  their  partisans.  Works 
of  a  sexually  psychopathic  nature  excite  in  abnormal  subjects 
the  corresponding  perversion  (till  then  slumbering  and  un- 
conscious, perhaps  also  undeveloped,  although  present  in  the 
germ),  and  give  them  lively  feelings  of  pleasure,  which  they, 
usually  in  good  faith,  regard  as  purely  aesthetic  or  intellectual, 
whereas  they  are  actually  sexual.  Only  in  the  light  of  this 
explanation  do  the  characteristic  artistic  tendencies  of  the 
abnormals,  of  which  we  have  proof,*  become  wholly  intelligible. 
This  confounding  of  aesthetic  with  sexual  feelings  is  not  sur- 
prising, for  the  spheres  of  these  two  feelings  are  not  only 
contiguous,  but,  as  has  been  proved  elsewhere,  are  for  the 
most  part  even  coincident. f  At  the  base  of  all  oddities  of 
costume,  especially  that  of  women,  there  is  hidden  an  uncon- 
scious speculation  in  something  of  a  sexual-psychopathy,  which 
'  finds  incitation  and  attraction  in  the  temporary  fashion  in 
dress.  No  professional  person  has  yet  viewed  fashions  from 
this  standpoint.  I  may  not  here  allow  myself  so  broad  a 
departure  from  my  principal  theme.  The  subject  may,  however, 
be  most  emphatically  recommended  to  the  consideration  of 
experts.  In  the  domain  of  fashions  they  will  make  the  most 
remarkable  psychiatrical  discoveries. 

I  have  devoted  very  much  more  space  to  the  demonstration 
of  the  senselessness  of  Nietzsche's  so  -  called  philosophical 
system  than  the  man  and  his  system  deserve.  It  would  have 
been  enough  simply  to  refer  to  the  all-sufficient  and  expressive 
fact  that,  after  having  been  repeatedly  confined  in  lunatic  asylums, 
he  has  for  some  years  past  been  living  as  incurably  mad  in 
the  establishment  of  Professor  Binswanger  at  Jena — *  the  right 
man  in  the  right  place.'  It  is  true  that  a  critic  is  of  the 
opinion  that  '  it  is  possible  for  mental  darkness  to  extinguish 
the  clearest  mental  light ;  for  this  reason  its  appearance  cannot 
with  certitude  be  urged  against  the  value  and  accuracy  of  what 
anyone  has  taught  before  the  appearance  of  his  affliction.' 
The  answer  to  this  is  that  Nietzsche  wrote  his  most  important 

*  Krafft-Ebing,  Neue  Forschungen,  u.  s.  w.,  p.  io8.  (A  sexual-psychopath 
thus  writes)  :  '  I  take  great  interest  in  art  and  literature.  Among  poets  and 
authors,  those  attract  me  most  who  describe  refined  feelings,  peculiar  passions, 
choice  impressions  :  an  artificial  (or  ultra-ariiricial)  style  pleases  me.  In 
music,  again,  the  nervous,  stimulating  music  of  a  Chopin,  a  Schumann,  a 
Schubert  [!],  a  Wagner,  etc.,  appeal  to  me  most.  In  art,  all  that  is  not  only 
original,  but  bizarre,  attracts  me.'  P.  128  (another  patient)  :  '  I  am  pas- 
sionately fond  of  music,  and  am  an  enthusiastic  partisan  of  Richard  Wagner, 
for  whom  I  have  remarked  a  predilection  in  most  of  us  [sufferers  from 
contrary-sexual-feeling] ;  I  find  that  this  music  accords  so  very  much  with 
our  nature,'  etc. 

f  See,  in  Paradoxe,  the  chapter  on  '  Evolutionistische  ^sthetik.' 


EGO-MANIA  453 

works  between  two  detentions  in  a  lunatic  asylum,  and  hence 
not  'before,'  but  'after,  the  appearance  of  his  affliction,' and 
that  the  whole  question  hinges  on  the  kind  of  mental  disease 
appealed  to  as  proof  of  the  senselessness  of  any  doctrine.  It 
is  clear  that  insanity  caused  by  an  accidental  lesion  of  the 
brain,  by  a  fall,  blow,  etc.,  can  prove  nothing  against  the 
accuracy  of  that  which  the  patient  may  have  taught  previous 
to  his  accident.  But  the  case  is  different  when  the  malady 
is  one  which  has  undoubtedly  existed  in  a  latent  condition 
from  birth,  and  can  with  certainty  be  proved  from  the  works 
themselves.  Then  it  amply  suffices  to  establish  the  fact  that 
the  author  is  a  Bedlamite,  and  his  work  the  daubing  of  a 
lunatic,  and  all  further  criticism,  all  efforts  at  rational  refu- 
tation of  individual  inanities,  become  superfluous,  and  even 
— at  least,  in  the  eyes  of  those  who  are  competent — a  little 
ridiculous.  And  this  is  the  case  with  Nietzsche.  He  is 
obviously  insane  from  birth,  and  his  books  bear  on  every  page 
the  imprint  of  insanity.  It  may  be  cruel  to  msist  on  this  fact.* 
It  is,  however,  a  painful,  yet  unavoidable,  duty  to  refer  to  it 
anew,  because  Nietzsche  has  become  the  means  of  raising  a 
mental  pestilence,  and  the  only  hope  of  checking  its  propagation 
lies  in  placing  Nietzsche's  insanity  in  the  clearest  light,  and 
in  branding  his  disciples  also  with  the  marks  most  suited  to 
them,  viz.,  as  hysterical  and  imbecile. 

Kaatzi*  affirms  that  Nietzsche's  '  intellectual  seed  '  is  every- 
where 'beginning  to  germinate.  Now  it  is  one  of  Nietzsche's 
most  incisive  points  which  is  chosen  as  the  epigraph  of  a 
modern  tragedy,  now  one  of  his  pregnant  turns  of  expression 
incorporated  in  the  established  usage  of  language.  ...  At 
the  present  time  one  can  .  .  .  read  hardly  any  essay  touching 
even  lightly  on  the  province  of  philosophy,  without  meeting 
with  the  name  of  Nietzsche.'  Now,  that  is  certainly  a  calumnious 

*  Dr.  Max  Zerbst,  Nem  und  Ja  !  Leipzig,  1892,  p.  vii.  :  '  It  is  not  impos- 
sible that  this  httle  book  may  fall  into  the  hands  of  some  who  are  nearly 
connected  with  the  invalid  .  .  .  whom  every  indelicate  treatment  of  his 
affliction  must  wound  most  deeply.'  The  very  last  person  having  the  right 
to  complain  of  indelicate  treatment,  and  to  demand  consideration,  is  surely 
a  partisan  of  Nietzsche's,  who  claims  for  himself  the  'joy  in  wishing  to 
cause  woe,'  and  '  grand  unscrupulousness '  as  the  '  privilege  of  the  over-man '! 
Zerbst  calls  his  book  a  reply  to  that  by  Dr.  Hermann  Tiirck  ;  but  it  is 
nothing  but  a  childishly  obstinate  and  insolent  repetition  of  all  Nietzsche's 
assertions,  the  insanity  of  which  has  been  proved  by  Dr.  Tiirck.  It  is 
exceedingly  droll  that  Zerbst,  appealing  to  a  feeble  compilation  by  Ziehen, 
wishes  to  demonstrate  to  Tiirck  that  there  are  no  such  things  as  psychoses 
of  the  will.  Now,  Tiirck  has  not  said  a  single  word  about  a  psychosis  of  the 
will  in  Nietzsche  ;  but  Nietzsche,  indeed,  in  Frohliche  Wzssenschaft,  p.  270, 
does  speak  of  '  monstrous  disease  of  the  will,'  and  of  a  '  wilL-disease.'  Zerbst's 
objection,  therefore,  applies,  not  to  Tiirck,  but  to  his  own  master — Nietzsche. 

t  Dr.  Hugo  Kaatz,  op.  cit.,  pt.  i.,  p.  6. 


454  DEGENERATION 

exaggeration.  Things  are  not  quite  so  bad  as  that.  The  only 
*  philosophers '  who  have  hitherto  taken  Nietzsche's  insane 
drivel  seriously  are  those  whom  I  have  above  named  the 
'fops'  of  philosophy.  But  the  number  of  these 'fops'  is,  as 
a  matter  of  fact,  increasing  in  a  disquieting  way,  and  their 
effrontery  surpasses  anything  ever  witnessed. 

It  is,  of  course,  unnecessary  to  say  that  Georges  Brandes 
has  numbered  himself  among  Nietzsche's  apostles.  We  know, 
indeed,  that  this  ingenious  person  winds  himself  around  every 
human  phenomenon  in  whom  he  scents  a  possible  prima- 
donna,  in  order  to  draw  from  her  profit  for  himself  as  the  im- 
presario of  her  fame.  He  gave  lectures  in  Copenhagen  on 
Nietzsche,  'and  declaimed  in  words  of  enthusiasm  about  this 
German  prophet,  for  whom  Mill's  morality  is  nothing  but  a 
diseased  symptom  of  a  degenerate  age;  this  radical  '"aristocrat," 
who  degrades  to  the  rank  of  slave-revolts  all  the  great  popular 
movements  in  history  for  freedom — the  Reformation,  the 
French  Revolution,  modern  socialism — and  dares  to  assert 
that  the  millions  on  millions  of  individuals  composing  the 
nations  exist  only  for  the  purpose  of  producing,  a  few  times  in 
each  century,  a  great  personality.'* 

A  series  of  imitators  are  eagerly  busying  themselves  to 
make  Nietzsche  their  model,  whether  in  clearing  the  throai 
or  in  expectorating.  His  treatise  Schopenhauer  ah  Erziehtr 
{Unzeitgemdsse  Betrachtungen,  3  Stiick)  has  found  a  monstrous 
travesty  in  Rembrandt  als  Erzieher.  True,  the  imbecile  author 
of  the  latter  parody  could  not  imitate  Nietzsche's  gushing 
redundancy  of  verbiage  and  the  mad  leaps  of  the  maniac^s 
thought.  This  symptom  of  disease  it  were  indeed  hardly 
possible  to  simulate ;  but  he  has  appropriated  as  his  own 
the  word -quibbling,  the  senseless  echolalia  of  his  model, 
and  endeavours  also  stammeringly  to  imitate,  as  well  as  his 
small  means  allow,  Nietzsche's  megalomaniacal  and  criminal 
individualism.  Albert  Kniepf,t  another  imbecile,  has  been 
smitten  chiefly  by  Nietzsche's  affected  superiority,  and  with 
princely  mien  and  gestures  struts  about  in  the  most  diverting 
manner.  He  calls  himself  '  a  man  of  superior  taste  and  more 
refined  feeling ' ;  he  speaks  contemptuously  of  the  '  profane 
daily  bustle  of  the  masses ' ;  sees  '  the  world  beneath  him  '  and 
himself  '  exalted  above  the  world  of  the  multitude  ' :  he  does 
not  wish  to  '  go  into  the  streets,  and  squander  his  wisdom  on 
everyone,'  etc.,  quite  in  the  style  of  Zarathustra,  the  dweller 

*  Ola  Hansson,  Das  jiinge  Skdudinavien.     Vier  Essays.     Dresden  und 
Leipzig,  1891,  p.  12. 
f  Albert  Kniepf,  Theorie  der  Geisteswerthe.     Leipzig,  1892. 


EGO-MANIA 


455 


on  the  highest  peaks.  The  already  mentioned  Dr.  Max  Zerbst 
affects,  Hke  Nietzsche,  to  regard  himself  as  terrible,  and  to 
believe  that  his  opponents  tremble  before  him.  When  he 
makes  them  speak  he  puts  whimpering  tones  into  their 
mouths,*  and  he  enjoys  with  cruelly  superior  scorn  the  mortal 
fear  with  which  he  inspires  them.  In  a  maniac  this  attitude 
is  natural  and  excites  pity.  But  when  a  fellow  like  this  Dr. 
Max  Zerbst  assumes  it,  it  produces  an  irresistibly  comic  effect, 
and  calls  to  remembrance  the  young  man  with  the  weak  legs 
in  Pickwick,  who  '  believes  in  blood  alone,'  '  will  have  blood.' 
Zerbst  dares  to  utter  the  words  '  natural  science  '  and  '  psycho- 
physiology.'  That  is  an  agreement  among  Nietzsche's  dis- 
ciples: they  pass  off  the  insane  word-spouter  whom  they 
worship  for  a  psycho-physiologist  and  a  physicist  !  Ola 
Hansson  speaks  of  Nietzsche's  'psycho-physiological  intui- 
tion '  !  and  in  another  place  says :  '  With  Nietzsche,  that 
modern  subtle  psychologist,  who  possesses  in  the  highest 
degree  psycho-physical  intuition  [again],  that  peculiar  power 
of  the  end  of  the  nineteenth  century,  of  listening  to  and 
spying  out  all  the  secret  processes  and  hidden  corners  in  itself,' 
etc.  '  Psycho-physical  intuition !'  '  Listening  to  and  spying  out 
itself!'  Our  very  eyes  deceive  us.  These  men,  therefore,  have 
no  suspicion  of  what  constitutes  '  psycho-physics,'  they  do  not 
suspect  that  it  is  the  exact  contrary  of  ancient  psychology, 
which  dealt  with  'intuition'  and  introspection,  Kf.,  'listening 
to  one's  self  and  'spying  out  one's  self;  that  it  patiently 
counts  and  mixes  with  the  apparatus  in  laboratories,  and  '  spies 
and  listens  to,'  not  itself,  but  its  experimentists  and  instru- 
ments !  And  such  babble  of  brainless  parrots,  who  chatter 
in  repetition  the  words  they  accidentally  hear,  without  compre- 
hending them,  is  able  to  make  its  way  in  Germany,  the  creator 
of  the  new  science  of  psycho-physiology,  the  fatherland  of 
Fechner,  Weber,  Wundt  1  And  no  professional  has  rapped 
with  a  ruler  the  knuckles  of  these  youths,  whose  fabulous 
ignorance  is  surpassed  only  by  their  impudence ! 

But  worse  still  has  befallen — something  at  which  all  jesting 
really  ceases.  Kurt  Eisner,  who  it  is  true  does  not  agree  with 
Nietzsche's  '  philosophy,'  is,  nevertheless,  of  the  opinion  that 

*  Dr.  Max  Zerbst,  op.  czl ,  p.  i  :  '  O,  this  modern  natural  science  !  these 
modern  psychologists  !  Nothing  is  sacred  to  them  !'  '  When  a  man,  grown 
up  in  the  school  of  sickly  "  idealism,"  confronts  a  cruel  savant  of  this  kind 
.  .  .  this  godless  man  takes  a  small  piece  of  chalk  in  his  hand,'  etc.  He 
'turns  to  the  nonplussed  idealist,'  and  the  latter  somewhat  timidly  answers, 
and  '  adds  somethmg  sorrowfully,'  whereupon  '  the  young  psychologist  replies, 
with  a  gentle  shrug  of  his  shoulders.'  Quite  so  !  the  'cruel,'  the  'godless,' 
the  '  shoulder-shrugging  '  young  psychologist  is  himself,  Zerbst  ;  the  whimper- 
ing idealist,  the  'timid'  and  'sorrowful'  speaker  and  questioner  is  his 
opponent,  Dr.  Tiirck  ! 


456  DEGENERATION 

he  has  '  bequeathed  us  some  powerful  poems,'*  and  goes  so 
far  as  to  make  use  of  this  unheard-of  expression  :  '  Nietzsche's 
Zarathustra  is  a  work  of  art  hke  Faust.'  The  question  first  of 
all  obtruding  itself  is  :  Has  Kurt  Eisner  at  any  time  read  a 
line  of  Faust  ?  This,  I  take  it,  must  be  answered  in  the  affirm- 
ative, for  it  is  hardly  conceivable  that  at  this  time  of  day  there 
is  in  Germany  any  adult,  seemingly  able  to  read  and  write,  into 
whose  hands  Fattst  has  not  fallen  at  some  time  or  other.  Then 
there  remains  only  one  other  question  :  What  may  Kurt  Eisner 
have  understood  of  Faust  ?  To  name  in  the  same  breath  the 
senseless  spirting  jet  of  words  of  a  Zarathustra  with  Faust  is 
such  a  defilement  of  our  most  precious  poetical  treasure  that 
verily  if  a  man  of  any  greater  importance  than  Kurt  Eisner 
had  perpetrated  it  there  had  been  need  of  an  expiatory  festival 
to  atone  for  the  insult  to  Goethe,  even  as  the  Church  newly 
consecrates  a  place  of  worship  when  it  has  been  profaned  by  a 
sacrilegious  act. 

Not  only  in  Germany  is  the  Nietzsche  gang  working  mis- 
chief; it  is  also  infesting  other  lands.  Ola  Hansson,-f-  already 
mentioned,  entertains  his  Swedish  fellow-countrymen  most 
enthusiastically  with  'Nietzsche's  Poetry'  and  'Nietzsche's 
Midnight  Hymn';  T.  de  WysewaJ  assures  the  French,  who 
are  not  in  the  position  to  prove  the  accuracy  of  his  assertions, 
that  *  Nietzsche  is  the  greatest  thinker  and  most  brilhant 
author  produced  by  Germany  in  the  last  generation,'  etc. 

It  has,  nevertheless,  been  reserved  to  a  lady  to  beat  the 
male  disciples  of  Nietzsche,  in  the  audacious  denial  of  the 
most  openly  manifest  truth.  This  feminine  partisan  of 
Nietzsche,  Lou  Salome,  with  a  cool  imperturbability  fit  to 
take  away  the  breath  of  the  most  callous  spectator,  turns  her 
back  on  the  fact  that  Nietzsche  has  for  years  been  confined 
in  a  lunatic  asylum,  and  proclaims  with  brazen  brow  that 
Nietzsche,  from  the  aristocratic  contempt  of  the  world  belong- 
ing to  the  '  over-human,'  has  voluntarily  ceased  to  write,  and 
withdrawn  himself  into  solitude.  Nietzsche  is  a  man  of  science 
and  a  psycho-physiologist,  and  Nietzsche  keeps  silence,  because 
he  no  longer  finds  it  worth  the  trouble  to  speak  to  the  men  of 
the  herd ;  these  are  the  catch-words  cried  aloud  throughout 
the  world  by  the  Nietzsche  band.  In  the  face  of  such  a  con- 
spiracy against  truth,  honesty,  sound  reason,  it  is  not  enough 
to  have  proved  the  senselessness  of  Nietzsche's  system,  it  must 

■*  Kurt  Eisner,  Psychopathia  spiritualis.  Ffiedtich  Nietzsche  und  die 
Apostel  der  Zuku7ift.     Leipzig,  i8y2. 

t  Ola  Hansson,  Maierialisimen  i  Skonlitteraturen,  Populdr-vetenskapliga 
[scientific!]  Ajhandlingar.  Stockholm,  undated,  pp.  28,  50.  In  this  brochure 
Hansson  also  designates  the  author  of  Rembrandt  ah  ErzieJier  ^.s  a  '  genius ' ! ! 

+  RevKe politique  et  litte'raire,dLnv].€'i  iZgi. 


EGO-MANIA 


457 


also  be  shown  that  Nietzsche  has  always  been  insane,  and  that 
his  writings  are  the  abortions  of  frenzy  (more  exactly,  of 
*  maniacal  exaltation '). 

A  few  followers  of  Nietzsche,  undoubtedly  not  fit  to  hold  a 
candle  to  Lou  Salom6,  do  not  contest  the  fact  of  Nietzsche's 
insanity,  but  say  that  he  became  insane  because  he  with- 
drew himself  too  much  from  men,  because  he  lived  too  long 
in  the  deepest  solitude,  because  his  speed  of  thought  was  so 
ruinously,  unnaturally  rapid.  This  unheard-of  idiocy  could 
circulate  throughout  the  entire  German  press,  and  yet  not  a 
single  newspaper  had  the  gumption  to  remark  that  insanity 
can  never  be  the  consequence  of  solitude  and  too  speedy 
thought,  but  that,  on  the  contrary,  a  propensity  for  solitude 
and  vertiginously  rapid  thought  are  the  primary  and  best 
known  signs  of  existing  insanity,  and  that  this  prattle  of 
Nietzsche's  partisans  is,  perhaps,  of  equal  force  with  the  asser- 
tion that  someone  had  contracted  lung  disease  through  cough- 
ing and  haemorrhage ! 

For  Nietzsche's  '  anthropophobia '  we  have  the  evidence  of 
his  biographers,  who  cite  curious  examples  of  it.*  His  rapid 
thought,  however,  is  a  phenomenon  never  absent  in  frenzied 
madness.  That  the  unprofessional  reader  may  know  what  he 
is  to  understand  by  this,  we  will  present  him  with  the  clinical 
picture  of  this  form  of  insanity  traced  by  the  hand  of  the  most 
authoritative  masters. 

'  The  acceleration  of  the  course  of  thought  in  mania,'  says 
Griesinger,  *  is  a  consequence  of  the  facilitation  of  the  con- 
nection between  representations,  where  the  patient  humbugs, 
romances,  declaims,  sings,  calls  into  service  all  the  modes  of 
exteriorizing  ideas,  rambles  incoherently  from  one  topic  to 
another,  the  ideas  hurtling  against  and  overthrowing  each 
other.  The  same  acceleration  of  ideation  is  found  in  certain 
forms  of  dementia  and  in  secondary  psychical  enfeeblement, 
*'  with  activity  produced  by  hallucinations."  The  logical 
concatenations  are  not  in  this  case  intact,  as  in  argumentation 
and  hypochondriacal  dementia ;  or  the  precipitate  sequence  of 
representations  no  longer  follows  any  law ;  or,  again,  only 
words  and  sounds  devoid  of  meaning  succeed  each  other  with 
impetuous  haste.  .  .  .  Thus  there  arises  ...  a  ceaseless  chase 

*  'During  his  sojourn  of  several  years  in  the  solitary  mountainous  district 
of  Sils  Maria  ...  he  was  in  the  habit  ...  of  lying  on  a  verdant  neck  of 
land  stretching  into  the  lake.  One  spring  he  returned,  to  find,  on  the  con- 
secrated [!]  spot,  a  seat,  on  which  trivial  folk  might  rest,  in  the  place  hitherto 
peopled  only  by  his  most  secret  thoughts  and  visions.  And  the  sight  of  this 
all  too  human  [!]  structure  was  enough  to  render  the  beloved  place  of  sojourn 
insupportable  to  him.  He  never  set  foot  there  again.' — Ola  Hansson,  quoted 
from  Dr.  Hermann  Tiirck,  op.  cit.^  p.  lo. 


458  DEGENERATION 

of  ideas,  in  the  torrent  of  which  all  is  borne  away  in  pell- 
mell  flight.  The  latter  conditions  appear  chiefly  in  raving 
madness  ;  at  its  inception  especially,  a  greater  mental  vivacity 
often  manifests  itself,  and  cases  have  been  observed  where 
the  fact  that  the  patient  became  witty  was  a  sure  sign  of  the 
imminence  of  an  attack  of  frenzy.'* 

Still  more  graphic  is  the  description  given  by  Krafft-Ebing.f 
*  The  content  of  consciousness  is  here  [in  '  maniacal  exalta- 
tion ']  pleasure,  psychical  well-being.  It  is  just  as  little  induced 
by  events  of  the  external  world  as  the  opposite  state  of  psychical 
pain  in  melancholia,  and  is,  therefore,  referable  to  an  inner 
organic  cause  only.  The  patient  literally  revels  in  feelings  of 
pleasure,  and  declares,  after  recovery,  that  never,  when  in 
good  health,  has  he  felt  so  contented,  so  buoyant,  so  happy, 
as  during  his  illness.  This  spontaneous  pleasure  undergoes 
powerful  increments  .  .  .  through  the  perception  by  the 
patient  of  the  facilitated  processes  of  ideation  .  .  .  through 
the  intensive  accentuation  of  ideas  by  feelings  of  pleasure  and 
by  agreeable  ccensestheses,  especially  in  the  domain  of  muscular 
sensation.  ...  In  this  way  the  cheerful  mood  temporarily 
exalts  itself  to  the  height  of  pleasurable  emotions  (gay  extrava- 
gance, exuberance),  which  find  their  motor  exteriorization  in 
songs,  dances,  leaps.  .  .  .  The  patient  becomes  more  plastic  in 
his  diction  .  .  .  his  faculties  of  conception  act  more  rapidly, 
and,  in  accelerated  association,  he  is  at  once  more  prompt  in 
repartee,  witty  and  humorous  to  the  point  of  irony.  The 
plethora  of  his  consciousness  supplies  him  with  inexhaustible 
material  for  talk,  and  the  enormous  acceleration  of  his  ideation, 
in  which  there  spring  up  complete  intermediate  forms  with 
the  rapidity  of  thought,  without  undergoing  exteriorization 
in  speech,  causes  his  current  of  ideas,  in  so  far  as  they  find 
expression,  to  seem  rambling.  .  .  .  He  continually  exercises 
criticism  in  respect  of  his  own  condition,  and  proves  that  he 
is  himself  aware  of  his  abnormal  state  by  .  .  .  claiming,  among 
other  things,  that  he  is  only  a  fool,  and  that  to  such  everything 
is  permissible.  .  .  .  The  invahd  cannot  find  words  enough  to 
depict  his  maniacal  well-being,  his  "  primordial  health." ' 

And  now  every  individual  feature  of  this  picture  of  disease 
shall  be  pointed  out  in  Nietzsche's  writings.  (I  repeat  my 
previous  remark,  that  I  am  compelled  to  limit  myself  in  citing 
examples,  but  that  literally  on  every  page  of  Nietzsche's  writing 
examples  of  the  same  kind  are  to  be  found.) 

His  coensestheses,  or  systemic  sensations,  continually  inspire 

*  Dr.  Wilhelm  Griesinger,  op.  at.,  p.  JJ. 

t  Dr.  von  Krafft-Ebing,  Lehrbuch  der  Psychiatrie  auf  kUnischer  Gnind- 
lagejiirpraktische  Aertze  und  Studirende.  Vierte  theilweise  umgearbeitete 
Auflage.     Stuitgart,  1890,  p.  363^ 


EGO-MANIA  459 

him  with  presentations  of  laughter,  dancing,  flying,  buoyancy, 
generally  of  movement  of  the  gayest  and  easiest  kind — of  rolling, 
flowing,  plunging.  '  Let  us  guard  ourselves  from  immediately 
making  gloomy  faces  at  the  word  "  torture  "...  even  there 
something  remains  for  laughter.'  '  We  are  prepared  for  a 
carnival  in  the  grand  style,  for  the  most  spiritual  carnival- 
laughter  and  exuberance,  for  the  transcendental  height  of  the 
most  exalted  idiocy  and  Aristophanic  derision  of  the  universe. 
.  .  ,  Perhaps  if  nothing  else  of  to-day  has  a  future,  our  very 
laughter  still  has  a  future.'  '  I  would  even  permit  myself  to 
classify  philosophers  according  to  the  quality  of  their  laughter 
— up  to  those  capable  of  golden  laughter  [!]...  The  gods 
are  jocular.  It  seems  as  if,  even  in  sacred  deeds,  they  could 
not  forbear  laughing.'  *  Ah  !  what  are  ye  then,  ye  written  and 
painted  thoughts  of  mine  ?  It  is  not  long  since  ye  were  so 
fantastic,  so  young  and  naughty  .  .  .  that  ye  made  me  sneeze 
and  laugh.'  '  Now  the  world  laughs,  the  dismal  veil  is  rent.' 
*  It  is  laughter  that  kills,  not  wrath.  Come,  let  us  kill  the 
spirit  of  heaviness  !'  '  Truly  there  are  beings  chaste  by  nature  ; 
they  are  milder  in  heart ;  they  laugh  more  agreeably  and 
copiously  than  ye.  They  laugh  as  well  over  chastity,  and  ask, 
What  is  chastity  ?'  '  Had  He  [Jesus  Christ]  remained  in  the 
desert,  perhaps  He  would  have  learned  to  live  and  to  love  the 
earth — and  to  laugh  besides.'  *  The  tension  of  my  cloud  was 
too  great ;  between  the  laughters  of  the  lightnings  I  will  cast 
hail-showers  into  the  deep.'  '  To-day  my  shield  quivered 
gently  and  laughed  at  me  ;  that  is  the  holy  laughter  and  tremor 
of  beauty.' 

It  will  be  seen  that  in  all  these  cases  the  idea  of  laughter 
has  no  logical  connection  with  the  real  thought ;  it  is  far  rather 
an  accompaniment  of  his  intellection  as  a  basic  state,  as  a 
chronic  obsession,  having  its  explanation  in  the  maniacal 
excitation  of  the  centres  of  ideation.  It  is  the  same  with  the 
presentations  of  dancing,  flying,  etc.  *  I  should  only  believe 
in  a  god  who  knew  how  to  dance.'  '  Truly,  Zarathustra  is  no 
hurricane  and  whirlwind  ;  and  if  he  is  a  dancer,  yet  is  he  by 
no  means  a  dancer  of  the  tarantella.'  *  And  once  upon  a  time 
I  wished  to  dance,  as  I  never  yet  have  danced ;  away  over  the 
whole  heaven  did  I  wish  to  dance.  .  .  .  Only  in  the  dance  do 
I  know  of  parables  for  the  highest  things,'  *  I  found  this 
blessed  security  in  all  things  also  :  that  on  the  feet  of  chance 
they  preferred — to  dance.  O  thou  heaven  above  me,  O  pure ! 
O  sublime !  thy  purity  is  now  for  me  .  .  .  that  thou  art  a 
dancing-floor  for  divine  chances.'  *  Ask  of  my  foot  .  .  .  truly 
after  such  a  rhythm,  such  a  tick-tack,  it  likes  neither  to  dance 
nor  rest.'  '  And,  above  all,  I  learned  to  stand  and  walk  and 
run  and  leap  and  climb  and  dance.'     '  It  is  a  fine  fool's  jest 


46o  DEGENERATION 

this,  of  speech;  thanks  to  it,  man  dances  over  all  things.' 
'  O  my  soul,  I  taught  thee  to  say  *'  to-day,"  as  well  as  "  once  " 
and  "  formerly,"  and  to  dance  thy  measure  over  all  the  "  here  " 
and  "there"  and  "yonder."  Thou  castest  thy  glance  at  my 
foot  crazy  for  the  dance.'  '  If  my  virtue  is  a  dancer's  virtue, 
and  I  often  bounded  with  both  feet  into  a  rapture  of  golden 
emerald,'  etc. 

('  A  state  of  mind  he  experienced  with  horror :')  *  A  perpetual 
movement  between  high  and  deep,  and  the  feeling  of  high  and 
deep,  a  constant  feeling  as  if  mounting  steps,  and  at  the  sam.e 
moment  as  if  reposing  on  clouds.'  *  Is  there,  indeed,  one  thing 
alone  that  remains  uncomprehended  by  it  .  .  .  that  only  in 
flight  is  it  touched,  beheld,  lightened  upon  ?'  *  All  my  will 
would  fly  alone,  would  fly  into  thee.'  '  Ready  and  impatient  to 
fly,  to  flyaway;  that  is  now  my  nature.'  '  My  wise  longing 
cried  out  from  me,  and  laughed  also  ...  my  great  longing, 
with  rushing  wings.  And  often  it  dragged  me  forth,  and  away 
in  the  midst  of  my  laughter ;  then,  indeed,  I  flew  shuddering 
.  .  .  thither,  where  gods  dance,  ashamed  of  all  clothes.'  *  If 
I  ever  spread  still  heavens  above  me,  and  with  my  own  wings 
flew  in  my  own  heavens.  ...  If  my  malice  is  a  laughing 
malice  .  .  .  and  if  my  Alpha  and  Omega  is  that  all  heaviness 
may  become  light,  all  body  a  dancer,  all  spirit  a  bird ;  and 
verily  that  is  my  Alpha  and  Omega,'  etc. 

In  the  examples  hitherto  cited  the  insane  ideas  are  mainly  in 
the  sphere  of  movement.  In  those  that  follow  it  is  excitations 
of  the  sensorial  centres  that  find  expression.  Nietzsche  has 
all  sorts  of  illusions  of  skin-sensibihty  (cold,  warmth,  being 
breathed  upon),  of  sight  (lustre,  lightning,  brightness),  of  hear- 
ing (rushing,  roaring),  and  of  smell,  which  he  mixes  up  in  his 
fugitive  ideation.  '  I  am  too  hot  and  burnt  with  my  own 
thoughts.'  '  Ah !  ice  surrounds  me ;  my  hand  is  burnt  by 
iciness.'  *  The  sun  of  my  love  lay  brooding  upon  me  ;  Zaras- 
thustra  was  stewing  in  his  own  juice.'  '  Take  care  that  there 
be  honey  ready  to  my  hand  .  .  .  good,  icy-fresh,  golden  honey- 
comb.' '  Into  the  coldest  water  I  plunged  with  head  and 
heart.'  'There  I  am  sitting  .  .  .  lusting  for  a  maiden's  round 
mouth,  but  still  more  for  maidenly,  icy -cold,  snow-white, 
cutting,  biting  teeth.'  '  For  I  deal  with  deep  problems  as  with 
a  cold  bath — soon  into  it,  soon  out  of  it.  .  .  .  Ho  !  the  great 
cold  quickens.'  *  Over  thy  surging  sea  I  blew  with  the  storm 
that  is  called  spirit ;  I  blew  from  it  all  clouds.'  *  To  their 
bodies  and  to  their  spirits  our  happiness  would  be  as  ice- 
caverns  !  and,  like  strong  winds,  we  will  live  above  them  .  .  . 
and  like  a  wind  will  I  once  blow  among  them.' 

*  I  am  light  .  .  .  but  this  is  my  loneliness,  that  I  am  en- 
girdled with  light.  ...  I  live  in  my  own  light ;  I  drink  back 
into  myself  the  flames  that  break  forth  from  me.' 


EGO-MANIA  461 

*  Mute  over  the  roaring  sea  art  thou  this  day  arisen  for  me.' 

*  They  divine    nothing   from    the    roaring   of   my   happiness.' 

*  Sing,  and  riot  in  roaring,  O  Zarathustra !'  '  Almost  too 
fiercely  for  me  thou  doSt  gush  forth,  well-spring  of  joy  .  .  . 
too  violently  doth  my  heart  gush  forth  to  meet  thee.'  *  My 
desire  now  breaks  forth  from  me  like  a  fountain.' 

*  There  is  often  an  odour  in  her  wisdom,  as  if  it  came  forth 
from  a  swamp.'  *  Alas !  that  I  should  have  so  long  lived  in 
the  midst  of  their  noise  and  foul  breath.  O  blessed  stillness 
around  me  !'  O  pure  odours  around  me  !  '  That  was  the  false- 
hood in  my  pity,  that  in  each  I  saw  and  smelt  what  was  mind 
enough  for  him.  .  .  .  With  blissful  nostrils  again  I  breathed  the 
freedom  of  the  mountain  !  My  nose  is  at  length  redeemed  from 
the  odour  of  all  that  is  human !'  '  Bad  air  !  bad  air !  .  .  . 
Why  must  I  smell  the  entrails  of  a  misguided  soul  ?'  '  This 
workshop,  where  ideals  are  manufactured,  meseems  it  stinks  of 
nothing  but  lies.'  '  We  avoided  the  rabble  .  .  .  the  stink  of 
shopkeepers  .  .  .  the  foul  breath.'  *  This  rabble,  that  stinks 
to  heaven.'  *  O  odours  pure  around  me !  .  .  .  These  crowds 
of  superior  men — perhaps  they  do  not  smell  nice,'  etc. 

As  these  examples  show,  Nietzsche's  thought  receives  its 
special  colouring  from  his  sense  illusions,  and  from  the  excita- 
tion of  the  centres  forming  motor  presentations,  which,  in 
consequence  of  a  derangement  of  the  mechanism  of  co- 
ordination, are  not  transformed  info  motor  impulses,  but 
remain  as  mere  images,  without  influence  on  the  muscles. 

In  respect  of  form,  Nietzsche's  thought  makes  the  two 
characteristic  peculiarities  of  madness  perceptible  :  the  sole 
domination  of  the  association  of  ideas,  watched  over  and  re- 
strained by  no  attention,  no  logic,  no  judgment;  and  the 
giddy  rapidity  of  the  course  of  ideation. 

As  soon  as  any  idea  whatsoever  springs  up  in  Nietzsche's 
mind,  it  immediately  draws  with  it  into  consciousness  all 
presentations  related  to  it,  and  thus  with  flying  hand  he 
throws  five,  six,  often  eight,  synonyms  on  paper,  without 
noticing  how  overladen  and  turgid  his  literary  style  is  thereby 
rendered  :  '  The  force  of  a  mind  measures  itself  ...  by  the 
degree  to  which  it  is  obliged  to  attenuate,  veil,  sweeten,  damp, 
falsify  the  truth.'  '  We  are  of  the  opinion  that  severity, 
violence,  slavery,  danger  in  the  street  and  in  the  heart,  conceal- 
ment, stoicism,  the  tempter's  art  and  devilry  of  every  kind  ;  that 
all  things  wicked,  fearful,  tyrannical,  bestial,  and  serpent-like 
in  man,  are  of  as  much  service  in  the  elevation  of  the  species 
**  man  "  as  their  opposites.  He  knows  ...  on  what  miserable 
things  the  loftiest  Becoming  has  hitherto  been  shattered, 
snapped  off,  has  fallen  away,  become  miserable.'  '  In  man 
there  is  material,  fragment,  surplus,  clay,  mud,  nonsense, 
chaos ;  but  in  man  there  is  also  creator,  constructor,  hammer- 


462  DE.GENERATION 

hardness,  divinity-of-the-beholder,  and  the  seventh  day.  .  .  . 
That  which  for  this  one  must  be  formed,  broken,  forged, 
torn,  burnt,  made  red-hot,  purified.'  *  It  would  sound  more 
courteous  if  ...  an  unrestrained  honesty  were  related, 
whispered,  and  praised  {nachsagte,  nachraunte,  nachruhnte)  of 
us.'  '  Spit  upon  the  town  .  .  .  where  swarms  all  that  is 
rotten,  tainted,  lustful,  gloomy,  worm-eaten,  ulcerous,  seditious.' 
'  We  forebode  that  it  is  ever  growing  downwards  into  the 
more  attenuated,  more  debonnaire,  more  artful,  more  easy- 
going, more  mediocre,  more  indifferent,  more  Chinese,  more 
Christian.'  *  All  these  pallid  Atheists,  Anti-Christians,  Im- 
moralists,  Nihilists.  Sceptics,  Ephectics,  Hectics  of  the  mind,' 
etc. 

From  these  examples,  the  attentive  reader  must  have  already 
remarked  that  the  tumultuous  rush  of  words  frequently  results 
from  the  merest  resemblance  in  sound.  Not  seldom  does  the 
riot  of  words  degenerate  into  paltry  quibbling,  into  the  silliest 
pun,  into  the  automatic  association  of  words  according  to  their 
sound,  without  regard  to  their  meaning.  '  If  this  turn  (Wende) 
in  all  the  need  (Noth)  is  called  necessity  {N othwendigkeit).'' 
'  Thus  ye  boast  [brilstet)  of  yourselves — alas !  even  without 
breasts  {Briiste).'  '  There  is  much  pious  lick-spittle-work 
{Speichel  -  Leckerie),  baking  -of-  flattery  (Schmeichel  -  Bdckerei) 
before  the  Lord  of  Hosts.'  *  Spit  upon  the  great  town,  which 
is  the  great  slum  (Abraum),  where  all  the  scum  (Abschaum) 
froths  together  (zusanwmnschdumt).'  '  Here  and  there  there  is 
nothing  to  better  {besseni),  nothing  to  worsen  (boseni).'  'What 
have  they  to  do  there,  far-seeing  {weitsichtige),  far-seeking 
{weit-silchtige)  eyes  ?'  *  In  such  processions  {Ziigen)  goats 
(Ziegen)  and  geese,  and  the  strong-headed  and  the  wrong- 
headed  {Kreuz  und  Querkopfe),  were  always  running  on  before. 
.  .  .  O,  Will,  turn  of  all  need  {Wende  alter  Noth) !  O  thou  my 
necessity  {N othwendigkeit)  !'  *  Thus  I  look  afar  over  the  creep- 
ing and  swarming  of  little  gray  waves  {Wellen)  and  wills 
(Willen).'  'This  seeking  {Suchen)  for  my  home  was  the  visita- 
tion {H eimsuchung)  of  me.'  '  Did  not  the  world  become  perfect, 
round  and  ripe  {reif)  ?  O  for  the  golden  round  ring  (Reif) !' 
*  Yawns  (Klafft)  the  abyss  here  too  ?  Yelps  (Kldfft)  the  dog  of 
hell  here  too  ?'  '  It  stultifies,  brutalizes  (verthiert),  and  trans- 
forms into  a  bull  (verstiert).'  '  Life  is  at  least  {mindestens),  at 
the  mildest  (mildestens),  an  exploiting.'  '  Whom  I  deemed 
transformed  akin  to  myself  (verwandt-verwandelt) ,'  etc. 

Nietzsche,  in  the  wild  hurry  of  his  thought,  many  a  time 
fails  to  comprehend  the  scintillating  word-images  elaborated  in 
his  centres  of  speech  ;  his  consciousness,  as  it  were,  hears 
wrongly,  misses  its  aim  in  interpreting,  and  invents  wondrous 
neologisms,  which  sound  like  known  expressions,  but  have  no 


EGO-MANIA  463 

sort  of  fellowship  in  meaning  with  these.  He  speaks,  for 
example,  of  Hinterweltlern  (inhabitants  of  remote  worlds)  from 
Hinterwdldlcrn  (backwoodsmen),  of  a  Kesselbauche  (kettle's 
belly)  when  he  is  thinking  of  Kesselpauche  (kettledrum),  etc. ; 
or  he  even  repeats,  as  his  centres  of  speech  prompt,  wholly 
incomprehensible,  meaningless  sounds.  *  Then  I  went  to  the 
door  :  Alpa !  I  cried,  who  is  carrying  his  ashes  to  the  moun- 
tain ?  Alpa  !  Alpa !  who  is  carrying  his  ashes  to  the  moun- 
tain ?' 

He  frequently  associates  his  ideas,  not  according  to  the 
sound  of  the  word,  but  according  to  the  similarity  or  habitual 
contiguity  of  the  concepts  ;  then  there  arise  '  analogous  '  intel- 
lection and  the  fugitive  ideation,  in  which,  to  use  Griesinger's 
expression,  he  '  rambles  incoherently  from  one  topic  to 
another.'  Speaking  of  the  '  ascetic  ideal,^  e.g.,  he  elaborates 
the  idea  that  strong  and  noble  spirits  take  refuge  in  the  desert, 
and,  without  any  connection,  adds :  '  Of  course,  too,  they 
would  not  want  for  camels  there.'  The  representation  of  the 
desert  has  irresistibly  drawn  after  it  the  representation  of 
camels,  habitually  associated  with  it.  At  another  time  he 
says :  '  Beasts  of  prey  and  men  of  prey,  e.g.,  Cassar  Borgia, 
are  radically  misunderstood  ;  Nature  is  misunderstood  so  long 
as  a  fundamental  diseased  condition  is  sought  for  in  these 
healthiest  of  all  tropical  monsters  and  growths.  It  seems  that 
there  is  among  moralists  a  hatred  against  the  primeval  forest 
and  against  the  tropics,  and  that  the  tropical  man  must,  at  any 
price,  be  discredited.  But  why  ?  For  the  benefit  of.  the 
temperate  zone  ?  For  the  benefit  of  the  temperate  (moderate) 
men  ?  Of  the  mediocre  ?'  In  this  case  the  contemplation  of 
Caesar  Borgia  forces  upon  him  the  comparison  with  a  beast  of 
prey ;  this  makes  him  think  of  the  tropics,  the  torrid  2one  ; 
from  the  torrid  zone  he  comes  to  the  temperate  zone,  from 
this  to  the  *  temperate '  mian,  and,  through  the  similarity  of 
sound,  to  the  *  mediocre '  man  (in  German,  gemdssigt  and 
mittelmdssig). 

'  In  truth  nothing  remains  of  the  world  but  green  twilight 
and  green  lightnings.  Do  as  it  pleases  ye,  ye  wantons  .  .  . 
shake  your  emeralds  down  into  the  deepest  depth.'  The 
quite  incomprehensible  '  emeralds '  are  called  up  into  con- 
sciousness by  the  representation  of  the  'green'  twilight  and 
lightnings. 

In  this  and  hundreds  of  other  cases  the  course  of  ideation 
can,  to  a  certain  extent,  be  followed,  because  all  the  links  in 
the  chain  of  association  are  preserved.  It  often  happens, 
however,  that  some  of  these  links  are  suppressed,  and  then 
there  occur  leaps  of  thought,  incomprehensible,  and,  conse- 
quently, bewildering  to   the  reader :    '  It  was  the  body  who 


464  DEGENERATION 

despaired  of  the  earth,  who  heard  the  belly  of  being  speaking 
to  itself.'  '  More  honestly  and  more  purely  speaks  the  healthy 
body,  the  perfect  and  rectangular.'  '  I  am  polite  towards 
them  as  towards  all  petty  vexation  ;  to  be  prickly  against  petti- 
ness seems  to  me  wisdom  for  hedgehogs.'  '  Deep  yellow  and 
hot  red  ;  so  would  my  taste  have  it.  This  one  mixes  blood  in 
all  colours.  He  who  whitewashes  his  house  betrays  to  me 
his  whitewashed  soul.'  '  We  placed  our  seat  in  the  midst — 
so  their  smirking  tells  me — and  as  far  from  dying  gladiators  as 
from  contented  pigs.  But  this  is  mediocrity.'  '  Our  Europe 
of  to-day  is  .  .  .  sceptic  ...  at  one  time  with  that  mobile 
scepticism  which  leaps  impatiently  and  wantonly  from  branch 
to  branch,  at  another  gloomy  as  a  cloud  overladen  with  notes 
of  interrogation.'  '  Let  us  grant  that  he  [the  '  courageous 
thinker']  has  long  enough  hardened  and  pricked  up  his  eye 
for  himself.'  (Here  the  representation  of  'ear'  and  '  pricked- 
up  ears '  has  evidently  crossed  with  confusing  effect  the  associ- 
ated idea  of  *  eye.')  '  It  is  already  too  much  for  me  to  keep 
my  opinions  to  myself,  and  many  a  bird  flies  away.  And  some- 
times I  find  flown  into  my  dovecot  an  animal  that  is  strange 
to  me,  and  that  trembles  when  I  lay  my  hand  on  it.'  '  What 
matters  my  justice  ?  I  do  not  see  that  I  should  be  fire  and 
coal.'  '  They  learned  from  the  sea  its  vanity,  too ;  is  the  sea 
not  the  peacock  of  peacocks  ?'  '  How  many  things  now  go  by 
the  name  of  the  greatest  wickedness,  which  are  only  twelve 
feet  wide  and  three  months  long!  But  greater  dragons  will 
one  day  come  into  the  world.'  '  And  if  all  ladders  now  fail 
thee,  then  must  thou  understand  how  to  mount  on  thine  own 
head ;  how  wouldst  thou  mount  otherwise  ?'  '  Here  I  sit, 
snifiing  the  best  air,  the  very  air  of  Paradise,  luminous,  light 
air,  rayed  with  gold ;  as  good  an  air  as  ever  yet  fell  from  the 
moon.'  *  Ha !  up  dignity!  Virtue's  dignity!  European 
dignity  1  Blow,  blow  again,  bellows  of  virtue  !  Ha  !  roar  once 
more,  morally  roar !  As  a  moral  lion  roar  before  the  daughters 
of  the  desert !  For  virtue's  howl,  ye  dearest  maidens,  is  more 
than  all  European  fervour,  European  voraciousness  !  And  here 
am  I,  already  a  European  ;  I  cannot  otherwise,  God  help  me  I 
Amen !     The  desert  grows,  woe  to  him  who  hides  deserts  !' 

The  last  passage  is  an  example  of  complete  fugitive  ideation. 
Nietzsche  often  loses  the  clue,  no  longer  knows  what  he  is 
driving  at,  and  finishes  a  sentence  which  began  as  if  to 
develop  into  an  argument,  with  a  sudden  stray  jest.  'Why 
should  the  world,  which  somewhat  concerns  us,  not  be  a 
fiction  ?  And  to  him  who  objects  :  "  But  a  fiction  must  have 
an  author,"  could  not  the  reply  be  roundly  given  :  Why  ? 
Does  not  this  "  must"  perhaps  belong  also  to  the  fiction?  Is 
it  not  permissible  to  be  at  last  a  little  ironical  towards  the 


EGO-MANIA  465 

subject  as  well  as  towards  the  predicate  and  object  ?  Ought 
not  the  philosopher  to  rise  above  a  belief  in  grammar  ?  With 
all  respect  for  governesses  [!],  is  it  not  time  that  philosophy- 
should  renounce  its  faith  ih  governesses  ?'  '  "  One  is  always  too 
many  about  me,"  so  thinks  the  hermit.  One  times  one  to 
infinity  at  last  makes  two !'  '  What,  then,  do  they  call  that 
which  makes  them  proud?  They  name  it  culture;  it  distin- 
guishes them  from  the  goat-herds.' 

Finally,  the  connection  of  the  associated  representations 
suddenly  snaps,  and  he  breaks  off  in  the  midst  of  a  sentence 
to  begin  a  new  one  :  '  For  in  religion  the  passions  have  once 
more  rights  of  citizenship,  provided  that.'  '  The  psychologists 
of  France  .  .  .  have  not  yet  enjoyed  to  the  full  their  bitter 
and  manifold  pleasure  in  la  betise  bourgeoise,  in  a  manner  as  if 
— enough  ;  they  betray  something  thereby.'  '  There  have  been 
philosophers  who  knew  how  to  lend  yet  another  seductive  .  .  . 
expression  to  this  admiration  of  the  people  .  .  .  instead  of 
adducing  the  naked  and  thoroughly  obvious  truth,  that  disin- 
terested conduct  is  very  interesting  and  interested  conduct, 
provided  that And  love  ?' 

This  is  the  form  of  Nietzsche's  intellection,  sufficiently  ex- 
plaining why  he  has  never  set  down  three  coherent  pages,  but 
only  more  or  less  short  '  aphorisms.' 

The  content  of  this  incoherent  fugitive  ideation  is  formed  by 
a  small  number  of  insane  ideas,  continually  repeating  them- 
selves with  exasperating  monoton}^  We  have  already  become 
acquainted  with  Nietzsche's  intellectual  Sadism,  and  his  mania 
of  contradiction  and  doubt,  or  mania  for  questioning.  In 
addition  to  these  he  evinces  misanthropy,  or  anthropophobia, 
megalomania,  and  mysticism. 

His  anthropophobia  expresses  itself  in  numberless  passages: 
*  Knowledge  is  no  longer  sufficiently  loved  as  soon  as  it  is  com- 
municated.' *  Every  community  leads  somehow,  somewhen, 
somewhere — to  vulgarity.'  *  There  are  still  many  void  places 
for  the  lonesome  and  twosome  [!]  around  which  wafts  the 
odour  of  tranquil  seas.'  '  Flee,  my  friend,  into  thy  lonesome- 
ness  !'  *  And  many  a  one  who  turned  away  from  life,  only- 
turned  away  from  the  rabble  .  .  .  and  many  a  one  who  went 
into  the  desert  and  suffered  thirst  with  the  beasts  of  prey,  only- 
wished  not  to  sit  with  filthy  camel-drivers  about  the  tank.' 

His  megalomania  appears  only  exceptionally  as  monstrous 
self-conceit  ;  but  it  is,  nevertheless,  clearly  conceivable  ;  as  a 
rule  it  displays  a  strong  and  even  predominant  union  of 
mysticism  and  supernaturalism.  It  is  pure  self-conceit  when 
he  says  :  *  In  that  which  concerns  my  "Zarathustra,"  I  accept 
no  one  as  a  connoisseur  whom  each  of  his  words  has  not  at 
some  time  deeply  wounded  and  deeply  enraptured  ;  only  then 
30 


466  DEGENERATION 

can  he  enjoy  the  privilege  of  reverentially  participating  in  the 
halcyon  element  out  of  which  every  work  is  born,  in  its  sunny 
brightness,  distance,  breadth,  and  certainty.'  Or  when,  after 
having  criticised  and  belittled  Bismarck,  he  cries,  with  trans- 
parent allusion  to  himself:  'But  I,  in  my  happiness  and  my 
"  beyond,"  pondered  how  soon  the  stronger  becomes  master  of 
the  strong.'  On  the  other  hand,  the  hidden,  mystic,  primary 
idea  of  his  megalomania  already  distinctly  comes  out  in  this 
passage  :  '  But  at  some  given  time  .  .  .  must  he  neverthe- 
less come,  the  redeeming  man  of  great  love  and  contempt, 
the  creative  spirit  who  his  impulsive  strength  is  ever  driving 
away  out  of  all  that  is  apart  and  beyond,  whose  loneliness  is 
misunderstood  by  the  people  as  if  it  were  flight  from  reality. 
It  is  only  his  immersion,  interment,  absorption  [three  synonyms 
for  one  concept !]  into  reality,  in  order  that  at  some  time, 
if  he  again  comes  into  the  light,  he  may  bring  home  the 
redemption  of  this  reality.' 

The  nature  of  his  megalomania  is  betrayed  by  the  expressions 
*  redeeming  man  '  and  '  redemption.'  He  imagines  himself  a 
new  Saviour,  and  plagiarizes  the  Gospel  in  form  and  substance. 
Also  Sprach  Zarathustra  is  a  complete  stereotype  of  the  sacred 
writings  of  Oriental  nations.  The  book  aims  at  an  external 
resemblance  to  the  Bible  and  Koran.  It  is  divided  into  chap- 
ters and  verses  ;  the  language  is  the  archaic  and  prophetic 
language  of  the  books  of  Revelation  ('  And  Zarathustra  looked 
at  the  people,  and  was  astonished.  Then  he  spake  and  said 
thus  : ')  ;  there  frequently  appear  long  enumerations  and  ser- 
mons like  litanies  ('  I  love  those  who  do  not  seek  a  reason  only 
behind  the  stars  .  .  .  ;  I  love  him  who  lives  to  know  .  .  . ;  I 
love  him  who  labours  and  invents  .  .  . ;  I  love  him  who  loves 
his  virtue  .  .  .  ;  I  love  him  who  withholds  for  himself  not  one 
drop  of  mind,'  etc.),  and  individual  paragraphs  point  verbatim 
to  analogous  portions  of  the  Gospel,  e.g. :  '  When  Zarathustra 
had  taken  leave  of  the  city  .  .  .  there  followed  him  many  who 
called  themselves  his  disciples  and  bore  him  company.  Thus 
they  came  to  a  cross  -  road ;  then  said  Zarathustra  unto 
them,  that  thenceforth  he  would  go  alone.'  *  And  the 
happiness  of  the  spirit  is  this  :  to  be  anointed  by  tears  and 
consecrated  as  a  beast  of  sacrifice.'  '  Verily,  said  he  to  his 
disciples,  yet  a  little  and  there  comes  this  long  twilight.  Ah  ! 
how  shall  I  save  my  light  ?'  *  In  this  manner  did  Zarathustra 
go  about,  sore  at  heart,  and  for  three  days  took  no  food  or 
drink.  ...  At  length  it  came  to  pass  that  he  fell  into  a  deep 
sleep.  And  his  disciples  sat  around  him  in  long  night-watches,' 
etc.  Many  of  the  chapters  have  most  expressive  titles:  'On 
Self-Conquest ; '  '  On  Immaculate  Knowledge  ; '  '  On  Great 
Events; '  '  On  the  Redemption  ;  '  '  On  the  Mount  of  Olives;' 


EGO-MANIA  467 

'On  Apostates;'  'The  Cry  of  Sore  Need;'  'The  Last  Sup- 
per ;  '  '  The  Awakening,'  etc.  Sometimes,  it  is  true,  it  befalls 
him  to  say,  atheistically  :  '  If  there  were  gods,  how  could  I 
endure  to  be  no  god  ?  Hence '  (italics  his)  '  there  are  no  gods  ; ' 
but  such  passages  vanish  among  the  countless  ones  in  which 
he  refers  to  himself  as  a  god.  '  Thou  hast  the  power  and  thou 
wilt  not  reign.'  '  He  who  is  of  my  nature  escapes  not  such  an 
hour — the  hour  which  says  to  him  :  Only  now  art  thou  going 
the  way  of  thy  greatness.  .  .  .  Thou  art  entering  on  the  way 
of  thy  greatness  ;  that  which  has  hitherto  been  thy  last  danger 
has  now  become  thy  last  resource.  Thou  art  entering  on  the 
way  of  thy  greatness ;  now  must  thy  best  courage  be,  that 
there  is  no  longer  any  way  behind  thee.  Thou  art  going  on 
the  way  of  thy  greatness ;  here  shall  no  one  slink  behind 
thee,'  etc. 

Nietzsche's  mysticism  and  megalomania  manifest  them- 
selves not  only  in  his  somewhat  more  coherent  thought,  but 
also  in  his  general  mode  of  expression.  The  mystic  numbers, 
three  and  seven,  frequently  appear.  He  sees  the  external 
world,  as  he  does  himself — vast,  distant,  deep;  and  the 
words  expressing  these  concepts  are  repeated  on  every  page, 
almost  in  every  line  :  '  The  discipline  of  suffering,  of  great 
suffering  .  .  .'  '  The  South  is  a  great  school  of  healing.' 
*  These  last  great  searchers  .  .  .'  '  With  the  signs  of  great 
destiny,'  '  Where  together  with  great  compassion  he  has 
learnt  great  contempt — to  learn,  at  their  side,  great  reverence.' 
'  Guilt  is  all  great  existence.'  *  That  I  may  celebrate  the  great 
noon  with  you.'  *  Thus  speaks  all  great  love.'  '  Not  from  you 
is  great  weariness  to  come  to  me.'  '  Men  who  are  nothing  but 
a  great  eye,  or  a  great  mouth,  or  a  great  belly,  or  something 
great  .  .  .'  '  To  love  with  great  love,  to  love  with  great 
contempt.'  '  But  thou,  O  depth,  thou  sufferest  too  deeply.' 
'  Immovable  is  my  depth,  but  it  gleams  with  floating  enigmas 
and  laughters.'  (It  is  to  be  observed  how,  in  this  sentence,  all 
the  obsessions  of  the  maniac  crowd  together — depth,  brilliancy, 
mania  of  doubt,  hilarious  excitation.)  '  All  depth  shall  ascend 
to  my  height.'  '  They  do  not  think  enough  into  the  deep,'  etc. 
With  the  idea  of  depth  is  connected  that  of  abyss,  which  recurs 
with  equal  constancy.  The  words  '  abyss  '  and  '  abysmal '  are 
among  the  most  frequent  in  Nietzsche's  writings.  His  words 
which  have  the  prefix  '  over '  are  associated  with  his  motor 
images,  especially  those  of  flying  and  hovering :  '  Over-moral 
sense  ' ;  '  over  -  European  music  ' ;  '  climbing  monkeys  and 
over-heated  ' ;  '  from  the  species  to  the  over-species  ' ;  '  the 
over -hero';  'the  over  -  human  ' ;  'the  over  -  dragon  ' ;  'the 
over-urgent '  and  '  over-compassionate,'  etc. 

As  is  general  in  frenzied  madness,  Nietzsche  is  conscious  of 


468  DEGENERATION 

his  diseased  interior  processes,  and  in  countless  places  alludes 
to  the  furiously  rapid  outflow  of  his  ideation  and  to  his  in- 
sanity :  '  That  true  philosophic  reunion  of  a  bold,  unrestrained 
mentality,  running  presto  .  .  .  They  regard  thought  as  some- 
thing slow,  hesitant,  almost  a  toil ;  not  at  all  as  something 
light,  divine,  and  nearest  of  kin  to  the  dance,  to  exuberance.' 
'  The  bold,  light,  tender  march  and  flight  of  his  thought.' 
'  We  think  too  rapidly.  ...  It  is  as  if  we  carried  about  in 
our  head  an  incessantly  rolling  machine.'  '  It  is  in  impatient 
spirits  that  there  breaks  out  a  veritable  pleasure  in  insanity, 
because  insanity  has  so  joyous  a  tempo.''  '  All  talking  runs  too 
slowly  for  me ;  I  leap  into  thy  chariot.  Storm  !  .  .  .  Like  a 
cry  and  a  huzza  would  I  glide  away  over  vast  seas.'  '  Eruptive 
insanity  forever  hovers  above  humanity  as  its  greatest  danger.' 
(He  is,  of  course,  thinking  of  himself  when  speaking  of 
'  humanity.')  '  In  these  days  it  sometimes  happens  that  a 
gentle,  temperate,  self-contained  man  becomes  suddenly 
frenzied,  breaks  plates,  upsets  the  table,  shrieks,  rages,  offends 
everyone,  and  finally  retires  in  shame  and  anger  against  him- 
self.' (Most  decidedly  '  that  sometimes  happens,'  not  only  '  in 
these  days,'  but  in  all  times ;  but  among  maniacs  only.) 
'  Where  is  the  insanity  with  which  ye  were  forced  to  be 
inoculated  ?  Behold,  I  teach  you  the  over-man,  who  is  .  .  . 
this  insanity.'  '  All  things  are  worth  the  same  ;  each  is  alike. 
He  who  feels  otherwise  goes  voluntarily  [?]  into  a  madhouse.' 
'  I  put  this  exuberance  and  this  foolishness  in  the  place  of  that 
will,  as  I  taught  ;  in  all  one  thing  is  impossible — reasonable- 
ness.' *  My  hand  is  a  fool's  hand  ;  woe  to  all  tables  and  walls, 
and  wherever  there  is  yet  room  for  the  embellishments  of  fools 
—scribbling  of  fools  !'  (In  the  original  there  is  here  a  play  on 
the  words  Zierrath,  Schmierrath.)*  He  also,  in  the  manner  of 
maniacs,  excuses  his  mental  disease  :  '  Finally,  there  would 
remain  open  the  great  question  whether  we  could  dispense  with 
disease  even  for  the  development  of  our  virtue,  and  especially 
if  our  thirst  for  knowledge  and  self-knowledge  needed  the 
sick  soul  as  much  as  the  healthy  soul.' 

Finally,  he  is  not  even  wanting  in  the  maniacal  idea  of  his 
*  primaeval  health.'  His  soul  is  '  always  clearer  and  always 
healthier';  *  we  Argonauts  of  the  ideal'  are  'healthier  than 
one  would  fain  allow  us  to  be — dangerously  healthy,  more  and 
more  healthy,'  etc. 

The  foregoing  is  a  necessarily  condensed  summary  of  the 
special  colour,  form,  and  content  of  Nietzsche's  thought, 
originating  in  illusions  of  sense  ;  and  this  unhappy  lunatic  has 
been  earnestly  treated  as  a  '  philosopher,'  and  his  drivel  put 
forward   as   a   *  system  ' — this   man   whose   scribbling   is   one 

*  Translator. 


EGO-MANIA  469 

single  long  divagation,  in  whose  writings  madnjss  shrieks  out 
from  every  line !  Dr.  Kirchner,  a  philosopher  by  profession, 
and  the  author  of  numerous  philosophical  writings,  in  a  news- 
paper article  on  Nietzsche's  book,  Der  Fall  Wagner,  lays  great 
stress  on  the  fact  that  '  it  superabounds,  as  it  were,  in  in- 
tellectual health.'  Ordinary  university  professors — such  as 
G.  Adler,  in  Freiburg,  and  others — extol  Nietzsche  as  a  *  bold 
and  original  thinker,'  and  with  solemn  seriousness  take  up  a 
position  in  respect  of  his  '  philosophy ' — some  with  avowed 
enthusiasm,  and  some  with  carefully  considered  reservations ! 
In  the  face  of  such  incurably  deep  mental  obtuseness,  it  cannot 
excite  wonder  if  the  clear-thinking  and  healthy  portion  of  the 
young  spirits  of  the  present  generation  should,  with  hasty 
generalization,  extend  to  philosophy  itself  the  contempt 
deserved  by  its  officially-appointed  teachers.  These  teachers 
undertake  to  introduce  their  students  into  mental  philosophy, 
and  are  yet  without  the  capacity  to  distinguish  from  rational 
thought  the  incoherent  fugitive  ideation  of  a  maniac. 

Dr.  Hermann  Tiirck*  characterizes  in  excellent  words  the 
disciples  of  Nietzsche  :  *  This  piece  of  wisdom  ['  nothing  is 
true  ;  all  is  permissible  ']  in  the  mouth  of  a  morally  insane 
man  of  letters  has  .  .  .  found  ready  response  among  persons 
who,  in  consequence  of  a  moral  defect,  feel  themselves  to  be 
in  contradiction  to  the  demands  of  society.  This  aforesaid  in- 
tellectual proletariat  of  large  towns  is  especially  jubilant  over  the 
new  magnificent  discovery  that  all  morality  and  all  truth  are 
completely  superfluous  and  pernicious  to  the  development  of  the 
individual.  It  is  true  that  these  persons  have  always  in  secret 
said  to  themselves,  "  Nothing  is  true — all  is  permissible,"  and 
have  also,  as  far  as  possible,  acted  accordingly.  But  now  they 
can  avow  it  openly,  and  with  pride  ;  for  Friedrich  Nietzsche, 
the  new  prophet,  has  vaunted  this  maxim  as  the  most  exalted 
truth  of  life.  ...  It  is  not  society  which  is  right  in  its  estima- 
tion of  morality,  science,  and  true  art.  Oh  dear  no !  The 
individuals  who  follow  their  egoistical  personal  aims  only — who 
act  only  as  if  truth  were  of  consequence  to  them — they,  the 
counterfeiters  of  truth,  those  unscrupulous  penny-a-liners, 
lying  critics,  Hterary  thieves,  and  manufacturers  of  pseudo- 
realistic  brummagem — they  are  the  true  heroes,  the  masters  of 
the  situation,  the  truly  free  spirits.' 

That  is  the  truth,  but  not  the  whole  truth.  Without  doubt, 
the  real  Nietzsche  gang  consists  of  born  imbecile  criminals, 
and  of  simpletons  drunk  with  sonorous  words.  But  besides 
these  gallows  birds  without  the  courage  and  strength  for 
criminal  actions,  and  the  imbeciles  who  allow  themselves  to  be 
stupefied  and,  as  it  were,  hypnotized  by  the  roar  and  rush  of 
*  Dr.  Hermann  Tiirck,  op.  at.,  s.  59. 


470  DEGENERATION 

fustiari;  the  banner  of  the  insane  babbler  is  followed  by  others, 
who  must  be  judged  otherwise  and  in  part  more  gently.  In 
fact,  Nietzsche's  ranting  includes  some  ideas  which,  in  part, 
respond  to  a  widespread  notion  of  the  age,  and  in  part  are 
capable  of  awakening  the  deception  that,  in  spite  of  all  the 
exaggeration  and  insane  distortion  of  exposition,  they  contain 
a  germ  of  truth  and  right ;  and  these  ideas  explain  why  many 
persons  agree  with  them  who  can  hardly  be  reproached  with 
lack  of  clearness  and  critical  capacity. 

Nietzsche's  fundamental  idea  of  utter  disregard  and  brutal 
contempt  for  all  the  rights  of  others  standing  in  the  way  of 
an  egoistical  desire,  must  please  the  generation  reared  under 
the  Bismarckian  system.  Prince  Bismarck  is  a  monstrous 
personality,  raging  over  a  country  like  a  tornado  in  the  torrid 
zone  ;  it  crushes  all  in  its  devastating  course,  and  leaves  behind 
as  traces,  a  widespread  annihilation  of  character,  destruction 
of  notions  of  right,  and  demolition  of  morality.  In  political 
life  the  system  of  Bismarck  is  a  sort  of  Jesuitism  in  cuirass. 
'The  end  sanctifies  the  means,' and  the  means  are  not  (as  with 
the  supple  sons  of  Loyola)  cunning,  obstinacy,  secret  trickery, 
but  open  brutality,  violence,  the  blow  with  the  fist,  and  the 
stroke  with  the  sword.  The  end  which  sanctifies  the  means 
of  the  Jesuit  in  cuirass  may  sometimes  be  of  general  utility ; 
but  it  will  quite  as  often,  and  oftener,  be  an  egoistical  one. 
In  its  author  this  system  of  the  most  primitive  barbarism  had 
ever  a  certain  grandeur,  for  it  had  its  origin  in  a  powerful  will, 
which  with  heroic  boldness  always  placed  itself  at  stake,  and 
entered  into  every  fight  with  the  savage  determination  to 
'  conquer  or  die.'  In  its  imitators,  on  the  contrary,  it  has  got 
stunted  to  'swaggering'  or  '  bullying,'  i.e.,  to  that  most  abject 
and  contemptible  cowardice  which  crawls  on  its  belly  before 
the  strong,  but  maltreats  with  the  most  extreme  insolence  the 
completely  unarmed,  the  unconditionally  harmless  and  weak, 
from  whom  no  resistance  and  no  dang:er  are  in  any  way  to  be 
apprehended.  The  '  bullies  '  gratefully  recognise  themselves 
in  Nietzsche's  '  over-man,'  and  Nietzsche's  so-called  '  philo- 
sophy '  is  in  reality  the  philosophy  of  '  bullying.'  His  doctrine 
shows  how  Bismarck's  system  is  mirrored  in  the  brain  of  a 
maniac.  Nietzsche  could  not  have  come  to  the  front  and 
succeeded  in  any  but  the  Bismarckian  and  post-Bismarckian 
era.  He  would,  doubtless,  have  been  delirious  at  whatever 
period  he  might  have  lived  ;  but  his  insanity  would  not  have 
assumed  the  special  colour  and  tendency  now  perceptible  in 
it.  It  is  true  that  sometimes  Nietzsche  vexes  himself  over 
the  fact  that  '  the  type  of  the  new  Germany  most  rich  in 
success  in  all  that  has  depth  .  .  .  fails  in  "swagger,"'  and  he 
then   proclaims;    'It  were  well    for  us    not  to  exchange  too 


EGO-MANIA  471 

cheaply  our  ancient  renown  as  a  people  of  depth  for  Prussian 
"swagger,"  and  the  wit  and  sand  of  Berlin.'*  But  in  other 
places  he  betrays  what  really  displeases  him  in  the  '  swagger,' 
at  which  he  directs  his'  philosophical  verse;  it  makes  too 
much  ado  about  the  officer.  *  The  moment  he  [the  '  Prussian 
officer']  speaks  and  moves,  he  is  the  most  forward  and  taste- 
less figure  in  old  Europe — unknown  to  himself.  .  .  .  And 
unknown  also  to  the  good  Germans,  who  wonder  at  him  as 
a  man  of  the  highest  and  most  distinguished  society,  and 
willingly  take  their  tone  from  him.'f  Nietzsche  cannot  con- 
sent to  that — Nietzsche,  who  apprehends  that  there  can  be 
no  God,  as  in  that  case  he  himself  must  be  this  God.  He 
cannot  suffer  the  '  good  German  '  to  place  the  officer  above 
him.  But  apart  from  this  inconvenience,  which  is  involved  in 
the  system  of  '  swagger,'  he  finds  everything  in  it  good  and 
beautiful,  and  lauds  it  as  '  intrepidity  of  glance,  courage  and 
hardness  of  the  cutting  hand,  an  inflexible  will  for  dangerous 
voyages  of  discovery,  for  spiritualized  North-Polar  expeditions 
under  desolate  and  dangerous  skies, ';]:  and  prophesies  exultingly 
that  for  Europe  there  will  soon  begin  an  era  of  brass,  an  era 
of  war,  soldiers,  arms,  violence.  Hence  it  is  natural  that 
*  swaggerers '  should  hail  him  as  their  very  own  peculiar 
philosopher. 

Besides  anarchists,  born  with  incapacity  for  adaptation,  his 
'  individualism,'  i.e.,  his  insane  ego-mania,  for  which  the  external 
world  is  non-existent,  was  bound  to  attract  those  who  in- 
stinctively feel  that  at  the  present  day  the  State  encroaches 
too  deeply  and  too  violently  on  the  rights  of  the  individual, 
and,  in  addition  to  the  necessary  sacrifices  of  strength  and 
time,  exacts  from  him  such  as  he  cannot  undergo  without 
destructive  loss  of  self-esteem,  vi^.,  the  sacrifice  of  judgment, 
knowledge,  conviction,  and  human  dignity.  These  thirsters 
for  freedom  believe  that  they  have  found  in  Nietzsche  the 
spokesman  of  their  healthy  revolt  against  the  State,  as  the 
oppressor  of  independent  spirits,  and  as  the  crusher  of  strong 
characters.  They  commit  the  same  error  which  I  have  already 
pointed  out  in  the  sincere  adherents  of  the  Decadents  and  of 
Ibsen  ;  they  do  not  see  that  Nietzsche  confounds  the  conscious 
with  the  subconscious  man ;  that  the  individual,  for  whom 
he  demands  perfect  freedom,  is  the  man,  not  of  knowledge  and 
judgment,  but  of  blind  craving,  requiring  the  satisfaction  of  his 
lascivious  instincts  at  any  price  ;  that  he  is  not  the  moral,  but 
the  sensual,  man. 

Finally,  his  consequential  airs  have  also  increased  the  number 

*  Jenseits  von  Gut  und  Bose^  pp.  198,  201. 
t  Die  frohliche  Wissenschafi,  p.  130. 
j  Jenseits  von  Gut  unci  Bose,  p.  147. 


472  DEGENERATION 

of  his  followers.  Many  of  those  marching  in  his  train  reject 
his  moral  doctrine,  but  wax  enthusiastic  over  such  expressions 
as  these  :  '  It  might  some  time  happen  that  the  masses  should 
become  masters  .  .  .  Therefore,  O  my  brothers,  there  is  need 
of  a  new  nobility,  the  adversary  of  all  plebeians  and  all  violent 
domination,  and  who  inscribes  anew  on  a  new  tablet  the  word 
"  Nobility."  '* 

There  is  at  the  present  time  a  widespread  conviction  that 
the  enthusiasm  for  equality  was  a  grievous  error  of  the  great 
Revolution.  A  doctrine  opposed  to  all  natural  laws  is  justly 
resisted.  Humanity  has  need  of  a  hierarchy.  It  must  have 
leaders  and  models.  It  cannot  do  without  an  aristocracy. 
But  the  nobleman  to  whom  the  human  herd  may  concede  the 
most  elevated  place  will  certainly  not  be  Nietzsche's  'over- 
man,' the  ego-maniac,  the  criminal,  the  robber,  the  slave  of 
his  maddened  instincts,  but  the  man  of  richer  knowledge, 
higher  intelligence,  clearer  judgment,  and  firmer  self-discipline. 
The  existence  of  humanity  is  a  combat,  which  it  cannot  carry 
on  without  captains.  As  long  as  the  combat  is  of  men  against 
men,  the  herd  requires  a  herdsman  of  strong  muscles  and  ready 
blow.  In  a  more  perfect  state,  in  which  all  humanity  fights 
collectively  against  Nature  only,  it  chooses  as  its  chief  the  man 
of  richest  brain,  most  disciplined  will  and  concentrated  atten- 
tion. This  man  is  the  best  observer,  but  he  is  also  one  who 
feels  most  acutely  and  rapidly,  who  can  most  vividly  picture 
to  himself  the  condition  of  the  external  world,  hence  the  man 
of  the  liveliest  sympathy  and  most  comprehensive  interest. 
The  '  over-man '  of  the  healthy  development  of  the  species  is 
a  Paraclete  of  knowledge  and  unselfish  love,  not  a  bloodthirsty 
'  splendid  beast  of  prey.'  This  is  not  borne  in  mind  by  those 
who  believe  that  in  Nietzsche's  aristocratism  they  have  found 
a  clear  expression  of  their  own  obscure  views  as  to  the  need 
of  noble  natures  of  light  and  leading. 

Nietzsche's  false  individualism  and  aristocratism  is  capable 
of  misleading  superficial  readers.  Their  error  may  be  accounted 
a  mitigating  circumstance.  But  even  taking  this  into  con- 
sideration, it  still  ever  remains  a  disgrace  to  the  German  intel- 
lectual life  of  the  present  age,  that  in  Germany  a  pronounced 
maniac  should  have  been  regarded  as  a  philosopher,  and  have 
founded  a  school. 

*  Also  Sprach  Zarathustra^  pt.  iii.,  p.  74. 


BOOK     IV. 

REALISM, 
CHAPTER  I. 

ZOLA    AND     HIS    SCHOOL. 

It  was  necessary  to  treat  in  detail  the  two  forms  of  degeneracy 
in  literature  and  art  hitherto  examined,  i.e.,  mysticism  and  ego- 
mania, inasmuch  as  their  career  of  development  seems  to  be 
still  in  the  ascendant,  and  they  are  actively  at  work  in  making 
themselves  masters  of  the  aesthetic  conscience  of  our  times. 
Concerning  the  third  form,  realism  or  naturalism,  I  can  afford 
to  be  much  briefer,  for  two  reasons :  one  having  to  do  with  my 
subject,  the  other  with  myself  The  former  reason  is  that,  in 
the  land  of  its  origin,  naturalism  is  already  wholly  vanquished, 
and  we  do  not  kill  a  corpse — we  bury  it.  The  personal  reason 
is  that  I  have  already  devoted  myself  elsewhere  to  the  thorough 
examination  of  naturalism*  The  conclusions  I  there  came  to 
I  continue  to  maintain,  as  regards  the  appreciation  of  its 
tendency,  and  I  should  only  wish  to  limit  them  by  a  strong 
reservation,  in  so  far  as  they  greatly  over-estimate  M.  Zola's 
abilities. 

That  naturalism  in  France  is  done  with  is  admitted  by  all 
the  world,  and  is  really  only  disputed  by  Zola  himself.  'There 
is  no  doubt  whatever  as  to  the  tendencies -of  the  new  genera- 
tion of  literary  men,'  says  M.  Remy  de  Gourmont ;  'they  are 
rigorously  anti- naturalist.  There  has  been  no  question  of 
forming  a  party  or  issuing  orders  ;  no  crusade  was  organized ; 
it  is  individually  that  we  have  separated  ourselves,  horror- 
stricken,  from  a  literature  the  baseness  of  which  made  us  sick. 
Perhaps  there  is  even  less  disgust  than  indifference.  I  re- 
member, when  M.  Zola's  last  novel  but  one  came  out,  that, 
among  the  eight  or  ten  collaborators  of  the  Merciire  de  France 

*  Paris  unter  der  dritten  Repiiblik,  Vierte  Auflage.  Leipzig,  1890.  Zola 
und  Naturalismus  Ausgewdhlte  Pariser  Briefe,  Zweite  Auflage.  Leipzig, 
1887.     'Pot  Bouille,  von  Zola.' 


474  DEGENLRATION 

(a  Symbolist  journal),  it  was  impossible  for  us  to  find  anyone 
who  had  read  through  La  Bete  humaine,  or  anyone  who  would 
have  consented  to  read  it  with  sufficient  care  to  review  it. 
This  species  of  book,  and  the  method  which  dictates  it, 
appears  to  us  quite  antiquated  with  the  flavour  of  bygone  years; 
more  remote  and  more  superannuated  than  the  most  truculent 
follies  of  romanticism.'* 

Among  the  disciples  of  Zola,  among  those  who  collaborated 
in  the  Soirees  de  Medan,  as  among  those  who  followed  him 
later,  there  is  scarcely  one  who  has  remained  faithful  to  his 
tendency.  Guy  de  Maupassant,  before  he  was  placed  in  the 
lunatic  asylum  where  he  died,  ended  by  turning  more  and 
more  towards  the  psychological  novel.  Joris  Karl  Huys- 
mans,  whom  we  have  studied  above  in  his  new  skin  as  a 
Diabolist  and  Decadent,  cannot  find  words  bitter  enough  for 
naturalism.  J.  H.  Rosny  writes  novels  now  in  which  the 
scene  is  laid  in  the  Stone  Age,  and  the  subject  of  which  is  the 
abduction  of  a  brawny  brachycephalous  pre-Aryan  woman  by  a 
tall,  white-skinned,  dolichocephalous  Aryan  man.f  When 
Zola's  La  Terre  appeared,  five  of  his  disciples — Paul  Bonnetain, 
J.  H.  Rosny,  just  mentioned,  Lucien  Descaves,  Paul  Mar- 
gueritte,  and  Gustave  Guiches — deemed  it  necessary  to  pro- 
test, in  a  public  manifesto,  and  with  a  solemnity  somewhat 
comical,  against  the  obscenities  of  this  novel,  and  to  disavow 
their  master  in  proper  and  befitting  form.  If  the  novels  of 
M.  Zola  himself  still  continue  to  find  a  very  good  and  steady 
market,  as  he  declares  with  pride,  this  in  no  way  proves  that 
his  tendency  is  still  popular.  The  masses  persist  in  habits, 
once  adopted,  much  longer  than  the  leaders  and  creators 
do.  If  the  former  continue  to  follow  M.  Zola  as  before,  the 
latter  have  already  wholly  left  him.  The  success  of  his  last 
novels  is  explained,  moreover,  on  quite  other  than  artistic 
grounds.  His  flair  for  what  is  occupying  public  opinion  is, 
perhaps,  the  most  essential  part  of  his  talent.  He  chooses 
from  the  outset  subjects  in  favour  of  which  he  is  assured  of  the 
positive  interest  of  a  numerous  public,  no  matter  how  they 
may  be  treated.  With  books  which  relate,  in  the  form  of  a 
novel,  the  story  of  the  financial  crisis  of  1882,  or  the  war  of 
1870, as  U Argent  and  La  Debacle,  every  known  French  author  is 
sure  to  awaken  in  his  own  country  a  passionate  interest  even 
to  this  day.  And  M.  Zola  could  equally  count  on  a  numerous 
connection  of  lovers  of  the  obscene  and  nasty.  This  public 
remains  faithful  to  him,  and  finds  in  him  all  it  seeks.  But  it  is 
a  long  time  since  he  acquired  any  new  adherents  in  his  own 
country,  and  abroad  he  only  obtains  them  among  people  who 

*  Jules  Huret,  E^tquete  sicr  V Evolution  Htie'raire,  p.  135. 

t  J.  H.  Rosny,  Vamireh  :  Roman  des  Temps primitijs.     Paris,  1892. 


REALISM  475 

anxiously  follow  every  fashion,  whether  it  be  in  neckties  or 
books,  but  who  are  too  ignorant  to  know  as  yet  that  M.  Zola, 
in  France  itself,  has  long  since  ceased  to  be  the  last  fashion. 

In  the  opinion  of  his  (disciples,  M.  Zola  is  the  inventor  of 
realism  in  literature.  This  is  a  pretension  which  only  young 
fellows,  who  are  ignorant  beyond  all  conception,  could  raise, 
and  for  whom  the  history  of  the  world  only  begins  at  the 
moment  when  they  have  deigned  to  recognise  it. 

First  of  all,  the  word  *  realism  '  itself  has  no  aesthetic  signifi- 
cance. In  philosophy  it  denotes  an  opinion  for  which  the 
general  phenomenon  of  the  world  is  the  expression  of  a 
material  reality.  Applied  to  art  and  hterature,  it  possesses  no 
conception  whatever.  This  I  have  explicitly  demonstrated  in 
another  place  {Paris  imter  der  dritten  Republik),  and  will  confine 
myself  here  to  going  very  briefly  over  the  argument. 

Those  ale-house  aesthetics,  who  distinguish  between  realism 
and  idealism,  explain  the  former  as  the  effort  of  the  artist  to 
observe  things  and  to  reproduce  them  with  truth.  But  this 
attempt  is  common  to  every  author,  whoever  he  may  be.  No 
one  of  deliberate  purpose  wanders  from  the  truth  in  his 
creations  ;  and  even  if  he  wished  to  do  so,  he  could  not,  as  this 
would  contradict  all  the  laws  of  human  thought.  Every  one 
of  our  presentations,  in  fact,  is  based  on  an  observation  once 
made  by  us,  and  even  when  we  invent  ad  libitum,  we  only  work 
with  the  memory-images  recollected  from  previous  observa- 
tions. If,  in  spite  of  this,  one  work  gives  a  greater  impression 
of  truth  than  another,  it  is  a  question,  not  of  this  or  that 
aesthetic  tendency,  but  exclusively  of  the  degree  of  talent,  A 
.  true  poet  is  always  true  ;  an  incapable  imitator  can  never  be  so. 
The  first  is  true  even  when  he  disdains  always  to  adhere  closely 
to  reality  in  details  ;  the  latter  is  not  so  even  when  he  clings, 
with  punctilious  attention,  and  with  the  method  of  a  land- 
surveyor,  to  little  external  details. 

If  one  bear  in  mind  the  psychological  conditions  in  which 
a  work  of  art  comes  into  existence,  all  the  rhodomontade  of 
so-called  'realism'  is  immediately  recognised.  The  origin  of 
every  veritable  work  of  art  is  an  emotion.  This  is  aroused 
either  by  a  vital  process  in  the  internal  organs  of  the  artist,  or 
by  a  sense-impression  which  he  receives  from  the  external 
world.  In  both  cases  the  artist  feels  the  necessity  of  giving 
expression  to  his  emotion  in  a  work  of  art.  If  this  emotion  is 
of  organic  origin,  he  will  choose  from  among  his  memory- 
images,  or  his  sense-impressions  of  the  moment,  those  which 
are  in  harmony  with  his  emotion,  and  will  compose  with  them. 
If  its  origin  is  external,  he  will  employ  in  his  composition 
mainly  phenomena  of  the  external  world,  sensuous  experiences 
which  have  evoked  in  him  the  emotion  demanding  objective 


476  DEGENERATION 

shape,  and  he  will  combine  with  this,  similar  memory-images 
in  accordance  with  the  laws  of  association.  As  may  be  seen, 
the  process  in  the  two  cases  is  absolutely  the  same :  the  artist, 
under  the  control  of  an  emotion,  welds  direct  sense-per- 
ceptions and  memory-images  into  a  work  of  art  which  brings 
him  relief;  only,  sometimes  the  former,  sometimes  the  latter, 
are  predominant,  according  to  whether  the  emotion  has  its 
origin  in  sense-perceptions  or  in  organic  processes.  Speaking 
roughly,  the  works  which  result  from  an  emotion  aroused  by 
the  phenomena  of  the  world  may  well  be  called  realistic,  and 
those  expressing  an  organic  emotion  idealistic.  These  de- 
nominations, however,  have  not  any  really  distinctive  value. 
Among  thoroughly  sane  individuals  the  emotions  originate 
almost  solely  from  impressions  of  the  external  world  ;  among 
those  whose  nervous  life  is  more  or  less  diseased,  namely, 
among  hysterical,  neurasthenic,  and  degenerate  subjects,  and 
every  kind  of  lunatic,  they  originate  much  more  frequently  in 
internal  organic  processes.  Sane  artists  will  produce  works, 
as  a  rule,  in  which  perception  will  predominate ;  artists  un- 
healthily emotional  will  produce  works  in  which  the  play  of 
association  of  ideas  predominates — in  other  words,  imagination 
working  principally  on  memory-images.  And  if  a  false  designa- 
tion is  absolutely  adhered  to,  it  might  be  said  that  the  first,  as  a 
general  rule,  will  produce  works  which  are  so-called  realistic,  and 
the  second,  works  so-called, idealistic.  In  no  case  is  the  work 
of  art  a  faithful  image  of  material  reality ;  its  genesis  excludes 
this  possibility.  It  is  always  the  incarnation  of  a  subjective 
emotion  only.  To  desire  to  know  the  world  by  means  of  a 
work  of  art  is  a  false  proceeding ;  but  the  whole  essence  of  a 
personality  reveals  itself  in  it  to  him  who  knows  how  to  read. 
The  work  of  art  is  never  a  document  in  the  sense  attached  by 
naturalistic  cant  to  this  word,  i.e.,  a  reliable  objective  presen- 
tation of  external  facts  ;  but  it  is  always  a  confession  of  the 
author ;  it  betrays,  consciously  or  unconsciously,  his  way  of 
feeling  and  thinking;  it  lays  bare  his  emotions,  and  shows 
what  ideas  fill  his  consciousness,  and  are  at  the  disposal  of  the^ 
emotion  which  strives  for  expression.  It  is  not  a  mirror  of  the 
world,  but  a  reflection  of  the  soul  of  the  artist. 

It  might  be  thought,  perhaps,  that  at  least  the  mainly 
imitative  arts,  painting  and  sculpture,  are  capable  of  a  faithful 
reproduction  of  reality,  and  thus  are  realisms  properly  so 
called.  Even  this  is  an  error.  It  would  never  occur  to  a 
painter  or  a  sculptor  to  place  himself  before  a  phenomenon, 
and  reproduce  it  without  selection,  without  accentuations  and 
suppressions.  And  why  does  he  do  this  ?  If  he  imitates  an 
aspect,  it  is  evidently  because  something  in  that  aspect  capti- 
vates or  pleases  him — a  harmony  of  colours,  an  effect  of  light, 


REALISM  477 

a  line  of  motion.  Involuntarily  he  will  accentuate  and  throw 
into  relief  the  feature  which  has  inspired  him  with  the  desire 
to  imitate  the  aspect  in  question,  and  his  work,  consequently, 
will  no  more  represent  the  phenomenon  such  as  it  really  was, 
but  as  he  saw  it  ;  it  will  only  be  a  fresh  proof,  therefore,  of  his 
emotion,  not  the  cast  of  a  phenomenon.  To  work  absolutely 
in  the  method  of  a  camera  obscura  and  a  sensitive  plate  would 
be  only  possible  to  a  very  obtuse  handicraftsman,  who,  in  the 
presence  of  the  visible  world,  had  no  feeling  for  anything,  no 
pleasure,  no  disgust,  no  aspirations  of  any  kind.  However,  it 
is  not  at  all  probable  that  so  atrophied  a  being  will  ever  have 
had  the  inclination  to  become  an  artist,  and  could  acquire, 
even  in  a  moderate  degree,  the  technical  skill  necessary  for 
such  a  profession. 

And  if  literal  realism,  the  positive  actual  imitation  of  the 
phenomenon,  be  interdicted  even  in  the  plastic  arts  by  their 
intrinsic  nature,  with  how  much  greater  reason  is  it  forbidden  to 
imaginative  writing  !  The  painter  can,  after  all,  if  he  wishes  to 
debase  himself  and  his  art  to  the  lowest  degree,  reduce  the  co- 
operation of  his  personality  in  a  work  of  art  (or,  to  be  more 
exact,  to  the  work,  for  then  there  can  be  no  question  of  art)  to  an 
extremely  feeble,  a  scarcely  perceptible  point ;  he  can  reduce 
himself  to  the  condition  of  a  mere  camera  obscura,  transmit 
his  visual  impressions  in  the  most  mechanical  manner  possible 
to  his  motor  organs,  and  compel  himself  to  think  and  feel 
nothing  during  the  progress  of  the  work.  His  picture  is  fur- 
nished for  him  by  Nature  itself:  it  is  his  optical  horizon.  If, 
then,  he  wishes  to  exercise  no  choice,  to  express  nothing  of  his 
own,  not  even  to  compose,  still  there  remains  the  possibility  of 
copying  the  phenomena  which  are  enclosed  within  the  limits 
of  his  field  of  vision.  His  so-called  picture  is  then  no  more 
than  an  expressionless  fragment  of  the  world,  in  which  the 
artist's  personality  is  only  represented  by  the  frame  which 
encloses  it,  not  because  the  phenomena  of  Nature  really  ter- 
minates at  that  point,  but  because  the  eye  of  the  painter  only 
embraces  that  portion,  and  no  more ;  nevertheless,  it  is  a  picture 
in  a  technical  sense,  i.e.,  a  picture  that  can  be  hung  upon  the  wall 
and  looked  at.  The  imaginative  writer  (dichter),  on  the  con- 
trary, does  not  find  his  work  ready  in  this  way.  It  is  not  provided 
for  him  by  Nature  itself.  His  subjects  are  not  developed  in  space, 
but  in  time.  They  are  not  arranged  by  the  side  of  one  another  in 
such  a  way  that  the  eye  perceives  them  and  can  retain  all  it  sees  ; 
but  they  succeed  each  other,  and  the  imaginative  writer  must  by 
his  own  intellect  assign  them  their  hmits,  he  must  himself  decide 
what  he  ought  to  seize  upon  and  what  he  must  let  go  ;  where 
the  phenomenon  begins  which  he  wishes  to  utilize  in  his  work, 
and  where  it  ends.     He  cannot  begin  or  end  a  conversation  in 


478  DEGENERATION 

the  middle  of  a  word,  in  imitation  of  M.  Jean  Beraud,  for 
example,  who  in  a  well-known  picture  has  made  the  frame 
cut  off  the  wheels  of  a  waggon  in  the  middle.  He  may  not  pro- 
duce an  inexpressive  photograph  of  the  uniform  course  of 
events  of  life  and  the  world.  He  must  fence  round  and  dam 
up  certain  places  in  the  course  of  events.  In  doing  this  he 
clearly  affirms  himself  and  his  personality.  He  betrays  his 
original  stamp.  He  allows  his  intentions,  views,  and  senti- 
ments to  be  recognised.  If  amongst  a  million  of  contemporary 
human  destinies  he  relates  one  only,  it  is  that  for  some 
reason  or  other  this  particular  one  has  interested  him  more 
than  the  rest  of  the  million.  If  he  transmits  to  us  only  some 
few  features,  ideas,  conversations,  and  actions  of  the  person 
he  has  selected  (not  even  a  millionth  part  of  all  that  makes  up 
his  actual  life)  it  is  because,  for  some  reason  or  other,  these 
seemed  to  him  more  important  and  more  characteristic  than 
all  the  rest ;  because  in  his  opinion  they  prove  something,  they 
express  an  idea  not  conceived  by  things  as  they  are,  but  which 
he  believes  he  can  deduce  from  reality,  or  which  he  desires  to 
read  into  it.  Thus,  his  '  realistic '  work  always  reproduces  his 
thoughts  only,  his  interpretation  of  reality,  his  interest  in  it, 
and  not  reality  itself.  If  the  imaginative  writer  wished  to 
transcribe  the  world  phonographically  or  photographically,  his 
work  would  no  longer  be  a  poem,  even  in  a  purely  technical 
sense  ;  it  would  not  even  be  a  book,  to  the  extent  that  the  work 
of  the  painter  who  only  photographs  still  continues,  in  a  purely 
technical  sense,  to  be  a  picture  ;  it  would  be  something  with 
neither  form,  sense,  nor  name  ;  for,  in  reproducing  the  exist- 
ence of  a  single  human  being  during  one  day  only,  thousands 
of  pages  could  be  filled  if  all  his  sensations,  thoughts,  words, 
and  actions  were  treated  as  of  equal  value.  That  selection 
is  therefore -made  among  them  which  is  the  subjectivity  of  the 
imaginative  writer,  i.e.,  the  reverse  of  'realism.' 

Besides,  the  work  of  the  painter  addresses  itself  to  the  same 
senses  as  the  phenomenon  of  Nature  itself,  and  reproduces  it 
with  the  help  of  the  same  means  by  which  the  world  itself  is 
revealed  to  the  senses,  viz.,  with  light  and  colour.  Of  course 
the  lights,  colours,  and  lines  of  the  painter  are  not  exactly 
those  of  the  real  phenomenon,  and  it  is  only  in  consequence 
of  an  illusion  that,  in  his  imitation,  the  phenomenon  is  recog- 
nised ;  but  this  illusion  is  the  work  of  such  inferior  cerebral 
centres  that  even  animals  are  capable  of  it,  as  is  demonstrated 
by  the  classical  anecdote  so  well  known  of  the  birds  wishing  to 
peck  at  the  bunch  of  grapes  painted  by  Zeuxis.  The  imaginative 
writer,  on  the  contrary,  does  not  address  himself  to  the  senses  ;  to 
be  more  exact,  he  appeals  by  hearing  or  sight,  to  which  he  pre- 
sents spoken  or  written  words,  not  to  the  centres  of  perception, 


REALISM  479 

as  the  plastic  artist  does  in  the  first  instance,  but  to  the  higher 
centres  of  conception,  judgment,  and  reasoning.  Nor  has  he 
the  means  for  directly  reproducing  the  sensible  phenomenon 
itself,  but  he  must  first  translate  the  phenomenon  into  concepts 
under  a  linguistic,  i.e.,  a  conventional,  form.  This  is,  however, 
an  excessively  complicated  and  highly  differentiated  activity, 
which  bears  completely  the  impress  of  the  personality  exercising 
it.  If  even  two  eyes  do  not  see  in  the  same  manner,  how 
much  less  can  two  brains  perceive  and  interpret  in  the  same 
way  what  the  eye  has  seen,  class  it  with  pre-existing  concepts, 
associate  it  with  feelings  and  representations,  and  clothe  it  in 
traditional  forms  of  language  ?  The  activity  of  the  imaginative 
writer,  therefore,  is  incomparably  more  than  that  of  the  artist, 
essentially  personal ;  the  elaboration  of  sense-impressions  into 
representations,  and  the  translation  of  representations  into 
words,  are  so  peculiarly  individual,  so  exclusively  subjective, 
that  for  this  cause  also  imaginative  writing  can  never  be  reality 
itself,  i.e.,  '  realistic' 

The  notion  of  so-called  *  realism '  cannot  withstand  either 
psychological  or  aesthetic  criticism.  We  might,  perhaps,  attempt 
an  external,  superficial,  practical  conception  of  it,  and  say,  for 
example,  Realism  is  the  method  in  the  application  of  which  the 
imaginative  writer  starts  from  his  perceptions  and  observations, 
and  seeks  his  subjects  in  the  environment  he  knows  personally; 
idealism  is  the  opposite  method,  which  that  writer  employs 
who,  in  creating,  yields  to  the  play  of  imagination,  and  who,  in 
order  not  to  impede  its  free  energy,  borrows  his  materials  from 
remote  times  and  countries,  or  from  social  strata  of  which  he 
has  no  direct  knowledge,  but  which  he  conceives  only  in  the 
visions  of  aspiration,  intuition,  or  surmise.  Reasonable  and 
plausible  as  this  explanation  appears,  it,  too,  nevertheless, 
dissolves  into  blue  mist  when  more  closely  exarpined.  For, 
in  fact,  the  choice  of  subject-matter,  the  surroundings  from 
which  it  is  borrowed,  or  in  which  it  is  placed,  have  no  decisive 
signification ;  no  method  is  therein  manifested,  but  merely 
the  author's  personality.  One  in  whom  observation  pre- 
dominates will  be  '  realistic,'  i.e.,  will  express  experiences, 
even  if  he  pretends  to  speak  of  men  and  things  placed  wholly 
beyond  the  reach  of  his  observation  ;  and  the  other  in  whom 
the  mechanical  association  of  ideas  prevails  will  be  '  idealistic,' 
i.e.,  he  will  simply  follow  the  wanderings  of  his  imagination, 
even  when  he  desires  to  represent  circumstances  which  may 
be  personally  familiar  to  him. 

Let  us  give  one  example  only  of  the  two  cases.  What  is 
more  '  idealistic  '  than  fairy  -  stories  ?  Very  well,  here  are 
some  passages  from  the  best-known  fairy-tales  of  the  brothers 
Grimm  :  *  There  was  once  upon  a  time  a  king's  daughter  who 


48o  DEGENERATION 

went  into  the  forest  and  seated  herself  on  the  brink  of  a  cool 
fountain'  [The  Frog  Prince;  or,  Iron  Henry),  'But  the  little 
i;ister  at  home  [he  is  speaking  of  the  daughter  of  a  king  who 
had  driven  away  his  twelve  sons]  grew  up,  and  remained  the 
only  child.  Once  there  was  a  great  washing-day,  and  amongst 
the  washing  were  twelve  men's  shirts.  "  For  whom  are  these 
shirts  ?"  demanded  the  princess  ;  "  they  are  much  too  small 
for  my  father."  Then  the  laundress  told  her  that  she  had  had 
twelve  brothers,'  etc.;  'and  as  the  little  sister  sat  in  the  meadow 
in  the  afternoon  bleaching  the  linen,  the  words  of  the  laundress 
came  into  her  mind,'  etc.  {The  Twelve  Brothers).  *  The  wood- 
cutter obeyed  ;  he  fetched  his  child,  and  gave  her  to  the  Virgin 
Mary,  who  carried  her  up  into  heaven.  There  the  child  lived 
happily;  she  ate  nothing  but  sweet  cakes,  and  drank  new  milk,' 
etc.  '  So  fourteen  years  went  by  in  heaven.  Then  the  Virgin 
Mary  had  to  take  a  long  journey;  but  before  she  went  away, 
she  called  the  girl  to  her,  and  said,  "  Dear  child,  I  entrust  you 
with  the  keys  of  the  thirteen  doors  of  Paradise," '  etc.  (Mary's 
Child).  The  unknown  writer  of  these  fairy-tales  transports  his 
stories  into  royal  palaces,  or  even  into  heaven — i.e.,  into  sur- 
roundings which  he  certainly  does  not  know ;  but  he  endows 
beings  and  things,  and  even  the  Virgin  Mary,  with  such  traits 
as  are  known  and  familiar  to  him  by  observation.  From  the 
royal  palace  one  enters  a  wood  or  a  meadow  as  one  might  on 
leaving  a  farm  ;  the  princess  runs  to  the  fountain  in  the  forest 
quite  alone,  looks  after  the  linen,  and  bleaches  it  on  the  grass, 
just  like  a  domestic  servant.  The  Holy  Virgin  undertakes  a 
journey,  and  confides  the  keys  of  the  household  to  her  adopted 
daughter,  as  a  rich  chatelaine  might  do.  These  fairy-tales  are 
composed  from  a  peasant's  own  experience,  who  describes  his 
own  world  with  honest  realism,  and  simply  gives  other  names 
to  the  figures  and  circumstances  with  which  he  is  familiar. 
M.  Edmond  de  Goncourt,  on  the  contrary,  the  great  pioneer 
'  realist,'  relates,  in  his  novel  La  Faustin,  the  love-story  of  a 
Lord  Annandale  and  an  actress  of  the  Theatre  Frangais,  which 
elicits  from  M.  F.  Brunetiere,  the  critic,  these  observations : 
'  I  should  much  like  to  hear  M.  Zola's  opinion  on  M.  de  Gon- 
court's  novel.  What  can  M.  Zola,  who  has  jested  so  eloquently 
on  the  subject  of  novels  of  adventure — of  those  novels  in  which 
princes  walked  about  incognito  with  their  pockets  full  of 
diamonds — think  in  his  inmost  heart  of  this  Lord  Annandale 
throwing  handfuls  of  gold  out  of  the  windows,  and  ruling  from 
one  day  to  another  over  fifty  English  servants  in  his  mansion 
in  Paris,  without  counting  the  retainers  of  his  lady  ?  What 
can  M.  Zola,  who  has  made  merry  so  comfortably  over  the 
idealistic  novel,  as  he  calls  it,  think  of  this  one  in  which  love 
triumphant  carries  off  the  lovers  into  the  adorable  world  of 


REALISM  481 

dreams^what  can  he  think  to  himself  concerning  this  passion- 
ate tenderness  which  M.  de  Goncourt's  EngHshman  has  for 
the  tragedienne,  this  almost  deified  gallantry,  this  sensual 
liaison  dans  le  bleu,  this  physical  love  in  ideality,  and  all  the 
rest  of  the  jargon  which  I  spare  the  reader?'*  M.  Edmond 
de  Goncourt  professes  to  depict  a  contemporary  Englishman, 
an  actress  also  of  our  own  times,  events  in  Parisian  life — i.e., 
all  of  them  mattershe  might  have  observed,  and  with  which 
he  ought  to  be  familiar ;  but  what  he  does  relate  is  so 
incredible,  so  im.possible,  unprecedented,  that  one  can  only 
shrug  one's  shoulders  over  the  childish  fable.  Thus,  the 
German  story-teller  who  conducts  us  into  a  society  of  angels, 
saints,  and  kings,  really  shows  us  healthy,  robust  peasants  and 
lasses  whose  living  reality  is  in  no  way  diminished  by  the 
carnival  crowns  and  gilded-paper  halos  playfully  placed  on 
their  heads ;  while  the  French  realist  who  would  transport 
us  into  Parisian  life  among  Parisians,  floats  before  our  eyes 
fleshless  phantoms  moving  in  clouds  of  cigar-smoke,  marsh- 
mists,  and  punch-flames,  and  who  remain  just  as  unreal,  for  all 
the  effort  of  the  author  to  conjure  into  them  a  distant  resem- 
blance to  an  Englishman  in  a  frock-coat,  and  a  hysterical 
lady  in  a  lace-trimmed  negligee.  The  author  of  the  fairy-tales 
is  a  realist  in  the  sense  of  the  explanation  given  above  ;  the 
novelist  of  Parisian  manners,  Edmond  de  Goncourt,  is  an 
idealist  of  the  most  aggravating  type. 

From  whatever  side  we  approach  this  pretended  realism,  we 
never  succeed  in  seeing  in  it  a  concept,  but  only  an  empty 
word.  Every  method  of  investigation  leads  us  to  the  same 
result — viz.,  that  there  is  no  realism  in  poetry,  i.e.,  no  im- 
personal, actual  copy  of  reality ;  there  are  only  the  various 
personalities  of  the  poet.  The  only  decisive  thing  is  the  in- 
dividuality of  the  poet.  One  of  them  draws  from  the  pheno- 
menon of  Nature,  another  from  his  internal  organic  processes, 
those  emotions  which  incite  them  to  create.  One  is  capable  of 
attention,  and  observes ;  another  is  the  slaye  of  an  unbridled 
association  of  ideas.  In  one  the  presentation  of  the  '  not-self 
predominates  in  consciousness,  in  another  the  '  self.'  I  do 
not  hesitate  to  express  the  matter  in  a  single  word — one  is 
healthy  and  in  an  evolution  of  growth  ;  the  other  is  changed 
more  or  less  pathologically  —  has  more  or  less  fallen  into 
degeneracy.  The  healthy  poet  mingles  knowledge  with  every 
one  of  his  works,  whether  it  be  Dante's  Inferno  or  Goethe's 
Faust ;  and  if  held  desirable,  this  element  of  knowledge,  which 
it  is  not  possible  to  acquire  except  by  attention  and  observa- 
tion,   may   be    called    realism.      The    degenerate    poet    never 

*  Ferdinand  Bruneti^re,  Le  Roman  naturaliste,  nouvelle  Edition.     Paris, 
1892,  p.  285. 

31 


482  DEGENERATION 

fashions  anything  but  empty  soap-bubbles  of  knowledge,  even 
when  he  maintains,  and  is  himself  convinced,  that  he  is 
giving  out  what  he  has  observed ;  and  this  confused  ebulli- 
tion of  ideas,  shot  in  the  best  cases  with  changing  hues,  but 
most  frequently  simply  dirty  froth,  is  very  often  called,  by  a 
misnomer,  idealism. 

Still  another  and  the  latest  meaning  has  been  applied  to 
realism  ;  it  stands  for  the  systematic  treatment  of  the  lower 
ranks  of  life,  and  commonplace  men  and  things.  According 
to  this  definition,  the  works  in  which  labourers,  peasants, 
petty  bourgeois,  etc.,  appear,  would  be  realistic,  and  those  in 
which  gods,  heroes,  kings,  etc.,  take  part,  idealistic.  Louis  XIV., 
according  to  the  well-known  anecdote  when  Teniers'  tavern- 
scenes  were  exhibited  before  him,  let  fall  the  indignant  and 
disdainful  comment,  *  Take  away  these  grotesque  things  !' 
He  would  not  have  condemned  an  artistic  method  and  manner 
of  representation,  but  the  baseness  of  the  subject  only  would 
have  offended  his  Olympian  eye.  This  explanation  of  the 
term  *  realism  '  is  a  little  more  comprehensible  than  the  others  ; 
but  I  have  no  need  to  show  how  grossly  external  and  how 
philosophically  and  sesthetically  worthless  it  is.  We  have 
seen,  in  fact,  above,  how  the  simplest  feelings  and  ideas  of 
peasants  may  be  attributed  to  gods  and  to  kings  ;  and,  con- 
versely, there  is  no  lack  of  works  in  which  a  royal  crown  or  a 
saintly  halo  hovers  invisibly  over  the  heads  of  human  beings  in 
the  lowest  social  position.  In  Gregory  Samarow's  novels, 
emperors  and  kings  disport  themselves  who  feel,  think,  and 
speak  like  the  commercial  travellers  of  a  third  -  rate  wine 
business ;  in  Berthold  Auerbach's  village  stories  we  see 
peasants  who  in  heart  and  head  are  of  the  highest  nobility, 
sometimes  even  semi-divine.  The  one  kind  is  as  unreal  as  the 
other,  only  in  the  first  we  discern  the  craft  of  the  sensation- 
monger,  in  the  second  there  speaks  to  us  the  refined  and 
tender-souled  poet.  In  The  Mill  on  the  Floss,  by  George  Eliot, 
we  find  a  farm-servant,  Luke,  and  a  miller's  daughter,  Maggie, 
who  would  do  honour  to  any  Pantheon  in  the  grandeur  of  their 
character  and  morals ;  in  Thackeray's  Vanity  Fair  we  are 
shown  a  Marquis  of  Steyne,  very  magnificent  and  very  proud, 
and  another  such,  Earl  Bareacres,  with  neither  of  whom  would 
any  decent  man  shake  hands.  Those  are  as  true  as  these  ; 
but  whereas  the  former  betray  the  heart  of  a  poet  full  of  love 
and  pity,  the  latter  reveal  the  soul  of  an  artist  overflowing  with 
bitterness  and  wrath.  Which,  now,  is  noble — the  emperors 
and  kings  of  Samarow  or  the  Black  Forest  peasants  of 
Auerbach  ?  Which  is  plebeian — the  farming  men  of  George 
Eliot  or  the  powerful  English  peers  of  Thackeray  ?  And 
which  of  these  works  must  be  qualified  as  realistic,  which  as 


REALISM  483 

idealistic,    if   realism    signifies    being    occupied    with    inferior 
persons  and  conditions,  idealism  with  those  that  are  superior  ? 

Hence  to  serious  investigation,  which  does  not  stop  at  the 
mere  jingle  of  words,  the  expressions  '  realism  '  and  *  idealism  ' 
convey  no  meaning.  We  will  now  see  what  the  partisans  of 
M.  Emile  Zola  give  out  as  his  originality,  in  what  he  himself 
claims  to  be  a  model  and  a  pioneer,  and  how  he  justifies  his 
pretension  of  impersonating  a  totally  new  epoch  in  the  history 
of  literature. 

M.  Zola's  disciples  boast  of  his  art  of  description  and  his 
'impressionism.'  I  make  a  great  difference  between  the  two. 
Description  endeavours  to  seize  upon  the  characteristic  features 
of  the  phenomenon  by  all  the  senses  at  once,  and  convey  them 
in  words  ;  impressionism  shows  the  conscious  state  of  a  person 
receiving  impressions  in  the  domain  of  one  sense  only,  seeing 
things  only,  hearing  them  only,  feeling  them  only,  etc. 
Description  is  the  work  of  a  brain  which  comprehends  the 
things  it  perceives  in  their  connection  and  their  essence ; 
impressionism  is  the  work  of  a  brain  which  receives  from  the 
phenomenon  only  the  sensuous  elements — and  by  a  one-sided 
aspect — of  knowledge,  but  not  knowledge  itself.  The  describer 
recognises  in  a  tree,  a  tree,  with  all  the  ideas  which  this 
concept  includes.  The  impressionist  sees  before  him  merely 
a  mass  of  colour  composed  of  spots  of  different  greens,  on 
which  the  sun  flashes  here  and  there  points  and  rays  of  light. 
Description  for  its  own  sake,  as  well  as  impressionism,  are, 
in  poetry,  an  aesthetic  and  psychological  error,  as  will  be 
demonstrated  as  briefly  as  possible ;  but  even  th^is  error  was 
not  invented  by  M.  Zola,  for  long  before  him  the  romanticists, 
and  Theophile  Gautier  particularly,  cultivated  the  broad  style 
of  description,  inorganically  interpolated  into  literary  com- 
position ;  and,  on  the  subject  of  impressionism,  the  brothers 
De  Goncourt  showed  M.  Zola  the  way. 

The  purely  objective  description  of  objects  is  science,  when 
it  is  worth  anyone's  while  to  acquire  of  them  as  clear  a  repre- 
sentation as  may  be  communicated  by  words  without  the 
assistance  of  image  or  number.  Such  description  is  simply 
child's  play  and  waste  of  time,  when  no  one  is  interested  to 
pause  and  look  at  the  things  described,  either  because  they 
are  too  well  known  or  because  they  are  without  importance.* 

*  Thirty  years  before  realism  began  to  create  a  disturbance  in  Germany, 
with  its  mania  for  description,  the  Swiss  novelist,  Gottfried  Keller,  with  a 
curious  premonition,  ridiculed  it.  See  Die  Leiite  voti  Seldwyla,  Auflage  12, 
Berlin,  1892,  Band  II.,  p.  108.  (The  hero  of  the  story  entitled  Die  miss- 
brauchten  Liebesbriefe  [the  misused  love-letters]  suddenly  conceives  the 
notion  of  becoming  an  author.)  '  He  laid  aside  the  book  of  commercial 
notes,  and  drew  forth  a  smaller  one  provided  with  a  little  steel  lock.  Then 
he  placed  himself  before  the  first  tree  he  came  to,  examined  it  attentively, 


484  DEGENERATION 

Finally,  it  rises  into  art  while  remaining  of  an  inferior  species, 
when  it  chooses  words  so  well  that  it  follows  the  most  delicate 
peculiarities  of  the  objects,  and  at  the  same  time  calls  out  the 
emotions  that  the  observer  experiences  during  his  observations, 
i.e.,  when  the  words  employed  have  not  only  the  value  of  a 
just  portrayal  of  sensuously  perceptible  properties,  but  have 
an  emotional  colouring,  and  appear  accompanied  by  images 
and  metaphors.  We  may  cite  as  examples  of  art  of  portrayal 
all  good  descriptions  of  travel,  from  the  Voyage  to  the  Equinoxial 
Regions  of  the  New  Continent,  by  Alexander  Humboldt,  to  Sahara 
and  Soudan,  by  Nachtigal, /w  Herzen  Afrikas,  by  Schweinfurth, 
or  Edmond  de  Amicis'  books  on  Constantinople,  Morocco,  Spain, 
Holland,  etc.  But  these  have  nothing  in  common  with  imagina- 
tive writing,  which  always  has  for  its  object  man,  with  his  ideas 
and  sentiments,  not  excepting  fables  of  animals,  parables,  allego- 
ries, fairy-tales,  all  the  hybrid  forms  in  which  the  human  element 
of  all  imagination  appears  disguised  as  an  anthropomorphism 
applied  to  animals,  and  even  to  inanimate  objects.  The  material 
frame,  the  scene  and  surrounding,  have  no  importance  in  an 
imaginative  work,  except  in  so  far  as  they  affect  the  person  or  per- 
sons of  whom  it  treats.  The  imaginative  writer  may  be  regarded 
either  as  a  spectator  who  narrates  human  events  as  they  develop 
before  his  eyes,  or  as  an  actor  in  these  events,  which  he  looks 
upon  and  feels  with  the  consciousness  of  one  of  the  personages 
concerned.  In  both  cases  he  can  naturally  only  perceive  in 
the  material  surroundings  whatever  plays  a  part  in  the  events 
themselves.  If  he  is  a  spectator,  he  will  certainly  not  let  his 
eyes  wander  over  the  field  of  vision  indifferently,  but  will  pause 
before  a  scene  which  attracts  his  attention,  and  for  which  he 
seeks  to  arouse  our  interest.  If  he  has  himself  adopted  the 
disguise  of  one  of  the  actors,  he  will  be  even  more  completely 
absorbed  by  the  human  events  in  which  he  himself  co-operates, 
and  will  preserve  still  less  any  inclination  to  stroll  indifferently 
by  the  side  of  scenes  which  have  nothing  to  do  with  his  given 
state  of  mind,  and  divert  him  from  acts  and  feelings  with  which 
he  is  preoccupied  at  the  moment.     Hence  an  imaginative  work 

and  wrote  :  "A  beech-trunk.  Pale  gray,  with  still  paler  flecks  and  transverse 
stripes.  Two  kinds  of  moss  cover  it,  one  almost  blackish,  and  one  of  a 
sheeny,  velvety  green.  In  addition,  yellowish,  reddish  and  white  lichen, 
which  often  run  one  into  another.  .  .  .  Might  perhaps  be  serviceable  in 
scenes  with  brigands."  Next  he  paused  before  a  stake  driven  into  the  earth, 
on  which  some  child  had  hung  a  dead  slow-worm.  He  wrote  :  "Interesting 
detail.  A  small  staff  driven  mto  the  ground.  Body  of  a  silver-gray  snake 
wound  round  it.  .  .  .  Is  Mercury  dead,  and  has  he  left  his  stick  with  dead 
snakes  sticking  here  ?  This  last  allusion  serviceable,  above  all,  for  com- 
mercial tales.  N.B. — The  staff  or  stake  is  old  and  weather-beaten  ;  of  the 
same  colour  as  the  snake  ;  in  places  where  the  sun  shines  upon  it  it  is 
covered  with  little  silver-gray  hairs.  (This  last  observation  might  be  new, 
etc.}," '  etc. 


REALISM  485 

which  is  true  to  human  nature  will  only  contain  descriptions 
of  such  material  surroundings  as  a  spectator  (absorbed  in  the 
actual  events  which  form  the  subject  of  the  work,  or  as  one 
of  its  actors)  is  in  a  state  to  perceive,  i.e.,  only  what  is  directly 
connected  with  the  events.  If  the  description  includes  ex- 
traneous matter,  it  is  psychologically  false  ;  it  disturbs  moods, 
interrupts  events,  diverts  the  attention  from  what  ought  to  be 
the  essential  point  in  the  work  of  art,  and  transforms  the 
latter  into  a  patchwork ;  showing  signs  that  its  author  lacked 
artistic  earnestness,  that  the  work  is  not  born  from  the  need 
to  give  poetic  expression  to  a  genuine  emotion. 

A  very  much  worse  error  than  desultory,  cold-blooded  descrip- 
tion in  imaginative  writing  is  impressionism.  In  painting  it 
has  its  authorization.  The  latter  reproduces  the  impressions  of 
the  visual  senses,  and  the  painter  is  within  the  limits  of  his 
art  when  he  presents  his  purely  optical  perceptions  without 
composing,  or  without  relating  a  story,  i.e.,  without  intro- 
ducing any  idea  into  the  scene  he  reproduces,  without  com- 
bining any  activity  of  his  highest  centres  of  ideation  with  the 
activity  of  the  centres  of  perception.  The  picture  produced 
according  to  this  method  will  be  very  inferior  from  an  aesthetic 
point  of  view,  but  it  will  be  a  picture,  and  can  be  defended  as 
such.  Poetical  impressionism,  on  the  other  hand,  is  a  complete 
misconception  of  the  essence  of  imaginative  work ;  it  is  the  nega- 
tion and  suppression  of  it.  The  medium  of  poetry  is  language. 
Now  this  is  an  activity,  not  of  the  centres  of  perception,  but 
of  the  centres  of  ideation  and  judgment.  The  immediate 
phonetic  reaction  upon  sensory  excitations  is  merely  an  ex- 
clamation. Without  the  co-operation  of  the  highest  centres 
a  perception  cannot  express  itself  phonetically  except  by  an 
*Ah!'  or  an  'Oh!'  But  in  the  same  ratio  that  the  purely 
emotional  cry  of  an  animal  rises  to  the  height  of  intelligible 
grammatically  articulated  human  speech,  the  purely  sensuous 
perception  rises  also  to  the  height  of  concept  and  judgment, 
and  it  is  psychologically  quite  false  so  to  depict  the  language 
of  the  external  world  as  if  it  set  free  only  a  sensation  of 
colour  or  of  sound,  and  provoked  neither  ideas,  concepts,  not 
judgments.  Impressionism  in  literature  is  an  example  of  that 
atavism  which  we  have  noticed  as  the  most  distinctive  feature 
in  the  mental  life  of  degenerates.  It  carries  back  the  human 
mind  to  its  brute-beginnings,  and  the  artistic  activity  of  its 
present  high  differentiation  to  an  embryonic  state;  that  state  in 
which  all  the  arts  (which  were  later  to  emerge  and  diverge)  lay 
side  by  side  inchoate  and  inseparate.  Consider,  as  an  example, 
these  impressionist  descriptions  by  the  brothers  De  Goncourt : 
'  Above  it  a  great  cloud  lowered,  a  heavy  mass  of  a  sombre 
purple,  a  scud  from  the  north.  .  .  .  This  cloud  rose  and  ended 


486  DEGENERATION 

in  sharp  rents  against  a  brightness  where  pale  green  merged 
into  rose.  Then  the  sky  became  dull,  of  the  colour  of  tin, 
swept  by  fragments  of  other  gray  clouds.  .  .  .  Beyond  the 
softly-swaying  pinetops,  under  which  the  broad  garden  walk 
could  be  seen  bare,  leafless,  red,  almost  carmine,  .  .  .  the  eye 
took  in  the  whole  space  between  the  dome  of  the  Salpetriere 
and  the  mass  of  the  Observatory  ;  first,  a  great  plane  of  shadow 
resembling  a  wash  of  Indian  ink  on  a  red  ground,  a  zone  of 
warm  bituminous  tones,  burnt  with  those  frost-touched  reds 
and  those  wintry  glows  that  are  found  on  an  English  artist's 
water-colour  palette;  then,  in  the  infinite  delicacy  of  a 
degraded  tint,  a  whitish  streak  arose,  a  milky  nacreous  vapour, 
pierced  by  the  bright  tones  of  new  buildings.'  *  The  delicate 
tones  of  an  old  man's  complexion  played  on  the  yellowish  and 
bluish  pink  of  his  face.  Through  his  tender,  wrinkled  ears — 
ears  of  paper  interwoven  by  filaments — the  day  in  passing 
became  orange.'  *  The  air,  streaked  with  water,  had  an  over- 
wash  of  that  violet  blue  with  which  the  painter  imitates  the 
transparency  of  thick  glass.  .  .  .  The  first  vivid  smile  of 
green  began  on  the  black  branches  of  the  trees,  where,  like 
strokes  from  a  brush,  touches  of  spring  could  be  discerned 
leaving  behind  it  light  coatings  of  green  dust.'* 

Such  is  the  procedure  of  impressionism.  The  writer  gives 
himself  the  air  of  a  painter  ;  he  professes  to  seize  the  phe- 
nomenon, not  as  a  concept,  but  to  feel  it  as  simple  sense- 
stimulation.  He  writes  down  the  names  of  colours  as  an 
artist  lays  on  his  washes,  and  he  imagines  that  he  has  here- 
with given  the  reader  a  particularly  strong  impression  of  reality. 
But  it  is  a  childish  illusion,  for  the  reader,  nevertheless,  comes 
to  see  no  colours,  but  merely  words.  He  has  to  transform 
these  names  of  colours,  like  every  other  word,  into  images, 
and  with  the  same  mental  effort  he  would  procure  himself  a 
much  hvelier  impression  if,  instead  of  heavily  enumerating  to 
him  one  after  another  of  the  optical  elements  of  the  phenomenon, 
the  phenomenon  were  presented  to  him  ready  elaborated  into 
a  concept.  M.  Zola  has  borrowed  this  absurdity  from  the 
De  Goncourt  brothers  with  some  exactitude,  but  it  was  not 
he  who  invented  it. 

Another  of  his  originalities  is  said  to  be  the  observation 
and  reproduction  of  the  milieu,  the  environment,  human  and 
material,  of  the  persons  represented.  Coming  after  the  indul- 
gence in  useless  description,  and  after  impressionism,  the 
theory  of  the  *  milieu  '  produces  a  most  comical  effect,  since 
it  is  the  exact  contrary  of  the  psychological  theory  which  forms 
the  point  of  departure  of  impressionism  and  of  the  mania  for 
*  Edmond  et  Jules  de  Goncourt,  Manette  Solomon.  Paris,  1876,  pp.  3, 
145,  191. 


REALISM  487 

description.  The  impressionist  places  himself  over  against 
some  phenomenon  as  a  mere  sense,  as  photographer  or  phono- 
graphist,  etc.  He  registers  the  nerve-vibrations.  He  denies 
himself  all  higher  comprehension,  the  elaboration  of  percep- 
tions into  concepts,  and  the  classification  of  the  concepts  in 
the  experiences  which,  as  general  knowledge,  pre-exist  in  his 
consciousness.  The  theorist  of  the  '  milieu,'  on  the  contrary, 
systematically  attributes  the  chief  importance,  not  to  the 
phenomenon,  but  to  its  causal  connection  ;  he  is  not  a  sense 
which  perceives,  but  a  philosopher  who  endeavours  to  interpret 
and  explain  according  to  a  system.  What,  in  fact,  does  the 
theory  of  the  '  milieu  '  mean  ?  It  means  that  the  imaginative 
writer  asserts  that  the  individuality  and  mode  of  conduct  of  any 
person  are  a  consequence  of  the  influences  that  his  environ- 
ment, living  or  dead,  exert  upon  him,  and  that  he  is  trying  to  dis- 
cover these  influences,  and  the  nature  of  their  action  on  that  per- 
son. The  theory  in  itself  is  right,  but,  again,  it  is  not  M.  Zola  who 
invented  it,  for  it  is  as  old  as  philosophic  thought  itself.  In  our 
own  times,  Taine  has  distinctly  conceived  and  established  it,  and, 
long  before  M.  Zola,  Balzac  and  Flaubert  sought  to  introduce 
its  operation  into  their  novels.  And  yet  this  theory,  extremely 
fertile  as  it  is  in  anthropology  and  sociology,  and  giving,  as  it 
does,  an  impulse  to  meritorious  research,  is  in  imaginative 
writing  but  another  error,  and  constitutes  a  confusion  of  kinds 
engendered  by  vague  thought.  The  task  of  the  man  of  science 
is  to  investigate  the  causes  of  phenomena.  Sometimes  he  finds 
them,  frequently  he  does  not ;  often  he  believes  he  has  dis- 
covered them,  till  more  exact  observation  subsequently  tells 
him  he  has  deceived  himself  and  must  rectify  his  hypotheses. 
The  investigation  of  the  conditions  under  which  man  acquires 
his  various  physical  and  mental  qualities  is  in  full  progress,  but 
is  only  at  its  commencement,  and  has  as  yet  furnished  extremely 
few  positive  facts.  We  do  not  even  know  why  one  human 
race  is  tall  or  another  short  in  stature ;  why  this  one  has  blue 
eyes  and  fair  hair,  that  one  dark  eyes  and  hair;  and  yet  these 
are  incomparably  simpler,  more  external  and  more  accessible 
properties  than  the  subtle  peculiarities  of  mind  and  character. 
On  the  causes  of  these  peculiarities  we  know  nothing  definite. 
We  can  make  conjectures  on  this  subject,  but,  meanwhile,  even 
the  most  plausible  of  these  have  still  the  character  of  hypotheses, 
of  probable,  but  not  of  verified,  truth.  And  here  the  imagina- 
tive writer  would  like  to  come  upon  the  scene,  carry  off  unfinished 
scientific  hypotheses,  complete  them  by  means  of  his  own 
fantastic  conceits,  and  teach:  '  Do  you  see?  this  man  whom 
I  show  you  has  become  what  he  is  because  his  parents  have 
had  such  and  such  attributes,  because  he  has  lived  here  or 
there,  because  when  a  child  he  received  such  and  such  impres- 


488  DEGENERATION 

sions,  because  he  has  been  thus  nurtured,  thus  educated,  has 
had  such  and  such  intercourse,  etc'  He  is  here  doing  what 
is  not  his  office.  Instead  of  an  artistic  creation  he  attempts  to 
give  us  science,  and  he  gives  us  false  science,  since  he  has  no 
suspicion  of  the  ini^uences  which  really  form  the  man,  and  the 
details  of  the  '  milieu'  which  he  throws  into  relief  as  being  the 
causes  of  individual  peculiarities  are  probably  the  least  essential, 
and,  in  any  case,  only  a  minimum  portion  of  what,  in  the  form- 
ation of  the  personality,  has  played  a  really  determining  part. 
Think  of  it  for  a  moment.  The  one  question  as  to  the  origin  of 
the  criminal  has  produced  in  these  last  twenty  years  thousands 
of  books  and  pamphlets  ;  hundreds  of  medical  men,  jurists, 
economists,  and  philosophers  of  the  first  rank,  have  devoted 
to  it  the  most  profound  and  assiduous  research,  and  we  are 
still  far  from  being  able  to  indicate  with  certainty  what  share 
heredity  social  influences  (i.e.,  the  '  milieu,'  properly  so  called) 
and  unknown  biological  peculiarities  of  the  individual,  have  in 
the  formation  of  the  criminal  type.  And  then  there  comes  a 
wholly  ignorant  writer,  who,  quite  by  himself,  with  the  sovereign 
infallibility  claimed  for  himself  by  the  author  in  his  own  pro- 
vince, decides  a  question  which  the  combined  ten  years' 
labour  of  a  whole  generation  of  professional  investigators 
has  brought  but  very  little  nearer  to  a  solution  !  This  is  an 
audacity  only  explicable  by  this  fact,  that  the  writer  has  not 
the  very  smallest  idea  of  the  weight  of  the  task  which  he  under- 
takes with  so  light  a  heart. 

If,  in  spite  of  this,  Balzac  and  Flaubert  seem  to  have  pro- 
duced excellent  works  with  this  theory  of  the  '  milieu,'  it  is 
an  optical  illusion.  They  have  devoted  great  attention  and 
detailed  descriptions  to  the  environment  of  their  characters 
(especially  Flaubert  in  Madame  Bovary),  and  the  superficial 
reader  thereby  receives  the  impression  that  there  exists  a  con- 
nection of  causality  between  the  environment  and  the  being 
and  doing  of  the  personages,  it  being  one  of  the  most  elementary 
and  tenacious  peculiarities  of  human  thought  to  link  causally 
one  with  another  all  phenomena  which  present  themselves 
simultaneously  or  successively.  This  peculiarity  is  one  of  the 
most  fruitful  sources  of  defective  conclusions,  and  it  cannot  be 
overccme  except  by  the  most  attentive  observation,  often  even 
only  with  the  help  of  experiment.  In  the  novels  of  Balzac 
and  Flaubert,  where  the  *  milieu '  plays  so  great  a  part,  the 
'milieu,'  in  fact,  explains  nothing.  For  the  personages  who 
move  in  the  same '  milieu  '  are,  notwithstanding,  wholly  different. 
Everyone  reacts  on  the  influences  of  the  '  milieu '  in  his  own 
particular  way.  This  distinctive  character  must  be  the  datum, 
it  cannot  be  the  result,  of  the  '  milieu.'  The  latter  has,  at 
most,  the  significance  of  an  immediate  proximate  cause,  but  the 


REALISM  489 

most  remote  causes  of  the  effect  in  question  are  found  in  the 
distinctive  character  of  the  personahty,  and  on  the  latter,  the 
*  miheu'  that  the  poet  depicts  gives  us  no  real  enlightenment. 

On  the  pretension  of  M.  Zola,  and  his  partisans,  that  his  novels 
are  'slices  from  real  life'  (tranches  de  vie),  it  is  useless  to  linger. 
We  have  seen  above  that  M.  Zola  is  far  from  being  capable 
of  transcribing  in  his  novels  life  as  real  and  as  a  whole.  Like 
all  the  imaginative  writers  before  him,  he  also  makes  a  choice  ; 
from  a  million  thoughts  of  his  personages,  he  reproduces  one 
only;  from  ten  thousand  functions  and  actions,  one  only;  from 
years  of  their  life,  some  minutes,  or  merely  seconds  ;  his  sup- 
posed '  slice  from  life '  is  a  condensed  and  rearranged  con- 
spectus of  life,  artificially  ordered  according  to  a  definite  design, 
and  full  of  gaps.  Like  all  other  imaginative  writers,  he  also 
makes  his  choice  according  to  his  particular  personal  inclina- 
tions, and  the  only  difference  is  that  these  inclmations,  which 
we  shall  at  once  recognise,  are  very  dissimilar  from  those  of 
other  writers. 

M.  Zola  calls  his  novels  'human  documents'  and  'experi- 
mental novels.'  I  have  already,  thirteen  years  ago,  expressed 
myself  so  fully  on  this  double  pretension,  that  I  have  now 
nothing  more  to  add  to  what  I  said  then.  Does  he  think  that 
his  novels  are  serious  documents  from  which  science  can 
borrow  facts  ?  What  childish  folly  !  Science  can  have  nothing 
to  do  with  fiction.  She  has  no  need  of  invented  persons  and 
actions,  however  ben  trovati  they  may  be  ;  but  she  wants  beings 
who  have  lived,  and  actions  which  have  taken  place.  The 
novel  treats  of  individual  destinies,  or  at  most  those  of  families  ; 
science  has  need  of  information  on  the  destinies  of  millions. 
Police  reports,  lists  of  imposts,  tables  of  commerce,  statistics 
of  crimes  and  suicides,  information  on  the  prices  of  provisions, 
salaries,  the  mean  duration  of  human  life,  the  marriage  rate, 
the  birth  rate,  legitimate  and  illegitimate — these  are  '  human 
documents.'  From  them  we  learn  how  people  live,  whether 
they  progress,  whether  they  are  happy  or-  unhappy,  pure  or 
corrupt.  The  history  of  civilization,  when  it  wants  facts,  puts 
M.  Zola's  entertaining  novels  aside  as  of  no  account,  and  has 
recourse  to  tedious  statistical  tables.  And  a  very  much  more 
singular  whim  still  is  his  'experimental  novel.'  This  terra 
would  prove  that  M.  Zola,  if  he  employs  it  in  good  faith,  does 
not  even  suspect  the  nature  of  scientific  experiment.  He 
thinks  he  has  made  an  experiment  when  he  invents  neuro- 
pathic personages,  places  them  in  imaginary  conditions,  and 
makes  them  perform  imaginary  actions.  A  scientific  experi- 
ment is  an  intelligent  question  addressed  to  Nature,  and  to 
which  Nature  must  reply,  and  not  the  questioner  himself. 
M.   Zola  also  puts  questions.     But  to  whom  ?     To  Nature  ? 


490  DEGENERATION 

No ;  to  his  own  imagination.  And  his  answers  are  to  have 
the  force  of  proof.  The  result  of  scientific  experiment  is 
constraining.  Every  man  in  possession  of  his  senses  can 
perceive  it.  The  results  at  which  M.  Zola  arrives  in  his 
pretended  *  experiment '  do  not  exist  objectively  ;  they  exist 
only  in  his  imagination  ;  they  are  not  facts,  but  assertions, 
in  which  every  man  can  believe,  or  not,  at  his  pleasure. 
The  difference  between  experiments,  and  what  M.  Zola  calls 
such,  is  so  great  that  it  is  difficult  for  me  to  impute  the 
abusive  application  of  the  term  to  ignorance  only,  or  to  in- 
capacity for  thought.  I  believe  rather  in  a  conscious  pre- 
meditated snare.  The  appearance  of  M.  Zola  occurred  at 
a  time  when  mysticism  was  not  yet  the  fashion  in  France, 
and  when  the  favourite  catch-words  of  the  writing  and  gossiping 
gang  were  positivism  and  natural  science.  In  order  to  recom- 
mend himself  to  the  masses,  a  man  had  to  represent  himself 
as  a  positivist  and  as  scientific.  Grocers,  hotel-keepers,  small 
inventors,  etc.,  have  everywhere  and  always  the  habit  of 
decorating  their  sign-boards  or  their  produce  with  a  name 
which  is  connected  with  an  idea  dominant  with  the  public. 
At  the  present  day  a  hotel-keeper  or  a  tradesman  recommends 
his  house  or  his  shop  by  such  titles  as  '  The  Progress  '  or 
'International  Commerce;'  and  a  manufacturer  extols  his 
goods  as  '  Electric'  braces  or  '  Magnetic'  ink.  We  have  seen 
that  the  Nietzscheans  designate  their  tendency  as  '  psycho- 
physiological.' In  the  same  way  Zola  long  before  them  hung 
out  the  catch-word  sign  to  his  novels — '  Y®  scientificke  experi- 
mente.'  But  his  novels  had  no  more  visible  connection  with 
natural  science  and  experiment  than  the  ink  above  mentioned 
with  magnetism,  and  the  braces  with  electricity. 

M.  Zola  boasts  of  his  method  of  work ;  all  his  books 
emanate  from  '  observation.'  The  truth  is  that  he  has  never 
*  observed  ; '  that  he  has  never,  following  Goethe, '  plunged  into 
the  full  tide  of  human  life,'  but  has  always  remained  shut  up 
in  a  world  of  paper,  and  has  drawn  all  his  subjects  out  of  his 
own  brain,  all  his  '  realistic '  details  from  newspapers  and 
books  read  uncritically.  I  need  only  recall  a  few  cases  in 
which  his  sources  have  been  placed  within  his  reach.  All  the 
information  on  the  life,  manners,  habits,  and  language  of  the 
Parisian  workmen  in  L'Assommoir  are  borrowed  from  a  study 
by  M.  Denis  Poulot,  Le  Siihlime.  The  adventure  of  Une  Page 
d' Amour  is  taken  from  the  Memoires  de  Casanova.  Certain 
features  in  which  the  masochism  or  passivism  of  Count  Muffat 
is  declared  in  Nana,  M.  Zola  found  in  a  quotation  from  Taine 
relative  to  the  Venice  Saved  of  Thomas  Otway.*  The  scene 
of  the  confinement,  in  La  Joie  de  Vivre,  the  description  of  the 
*  F.  Brunei iere,  oJ>.  ciL,  p.  153. 


REALISM  491 

Mass,  in  La  F aide  de  VAbheMouret,  etc.,  are  copied  word  for 
word  from  an  obstetric  manual  and  a  Mass-book.     One  reads 
sometimes  in  the  newspapers  very  pretentious  statements  of 
the  '  studies  '  to  which  M.  Zola  gives  himself  up  when  he  under- 
takes a  new  novel.     These  'studies'  consist,  on  his  part,  in 
making  a  visit  to   the   Bourse  when  he  wishes  to  write  on 
speculation,  in  undertaking  a  trip  on  a  locomotive  when  he 
desires  to  describe  the  working  of  a  railway,  in  once  casting  a 
glance  round  some  available  bedroom  when  he  means  to  depict 
the    mode  of  life  of  the   Parisian   cocoUes.      Such  a   manner 
of  *  observation '    resembles   that   of  a   traveller  who   passes 
through  a  country  in  an  express  train.     He  may  perceive  some 
external  details,  he  may  notice  some  scenes  and  arrange  them 
later  in  descriptions  rich  in  colour,  if  wholly  inaccurate  ;  but 
he  learns  nothing  of  the  real  and  essential  peculiarities  of  the 
country,  and  the  life  and  ways  of  its  inhabitants.     Like  all 
degenerates,  M.  Zola,  too,  is  a  complete  stranger  to  the  world 
in   which   he    lives.       His   eyes   are   never   directed    towards 
nature  or  humanity,  but  only  to  his  own  '  Ego.'     He  has  no 
first-hand  knowledge  of  anything,  but  acquires,  by  second  or 
third  hand,  all  that  he  knows  of  the  world  or  life.     Flaubert 
has   created,  in  Bouvard   et  Pecuchet,  the   characters   of  two 
blockheads,   who,   with    unsuspecting    ingenuousness,    attack 
all   the   arts  and   sciences,   and    imagine  they  have  acquired 
them   when   they  have   dipped   into,  or,  more   correctly,  have 
skimmed  through,  the  first  book  on  the  subject  which  falls 
into  their  hands.     Zola  is  an  '  observer  '  of  the  Bouvard  et 
Pecuchet  species,  and  on  reading  Flaubert's  posthumous  novel 
one  is  tempted  to  believe  in  places  that  when  describing  the 

*  studies '  of  his  heroes  he  was  thinking,  at  least  amongst 
others,  of  Zola. 

I  think  I  have  shown  that  M.  Zola  has  not  the  priority  in 
any  one  of  the  peculiarities  which  constitute  his  method.  For 
all  of  them  he  has  had  models,  and  some  few  are  as  old  as  the 
world.  The  supposed  realism,  mania  for  description,  impres- 
sionism, the  emphasis  on  the  'milieu,'  the  human  document,  the 
slices  of  life — all  these  are  so  many  aesthetic  and  psychological 
errors,  but  Zola  has  not  even  the  doubtful  merit  of  having 
conceived  them.     The  only  thing  he  has  invented  is  the  word 

*  naturalism,'  substituted  by  him  for  '  realism  '  (the  sole  term 
in  vogue  till  then),  and  the  expression  '  experimental  novel,' 
which  means  absolutely  nothing,  but  possesses  a  piquant  little 
smattering  of  science  which  Zola's  public,  at  the  period  when 
this  novelist  made  his  appearance,  felt  as  an  agreeable 
seasoning. 

The  only  real  and  true  things  contained  in  M.  Zola's  novels 
are  the  little  traits  borrowed  by  him  from  the  items  of  news  in 


492  DEGENERATION 

the  daily  papers  and  from  technical  works.  But  these  also 
become  false  from  the  lack  of  criticism  and  taste  with  which 
he  employs  them.  In  fact,  in  order  that  the  borrowed  detail 
should  remain  faithful  to  reality,  it  must  preserve  its  right 
relation  to  the  whole  phenomenon,  and  this  is  what  never 
happens  with  M.  Zola.  To  quote  only  two  examples.  In 
Pot'Bouille,  among  the  inhabitants  of  a  single  house  in  the  Rue 
de  Choiseul,  he  brings  to  pass  in  the  space  of  a  few  months 
all  the  infamous  things  he  has  learnt  in  the  course  of  thirty 
years,  by  reports  from  his  acquaintances,  by  cases  in  courts 
of  law,  and  various  facts  from  newspapers  about  apparently 
honourable  bourgeois  families ;  in  La  Terre,  all  the  vices  im- 
puted to  the  French  peasantry  or  rustic  people  in  general,  he 
crams  into  the  character  and  conduct  of  a  few  inhabitants  of 
a  small  village  in  Beauce  ;  he  may  in  these  cases  have  supported 
every  detail  by  cuttings  from  newspapers  or  jottings,  but  the 
whole  is  not  the  less  monstrously  and  ridiculously  untrue. 

The  self-styled  innovator  who,  it  is  asserted,  has  invented 
hitherto  unknown  methods  of  construction  and  exposition  in 
the  province  of  the  novel,  is  in  reality  a  pupil  of  the  French 
romanticists,  from  whom  he  has  appropriated  and  employed 
all  the  tricks  of  the  trade,  and  whose  tradition  he  carries  on, 
walking  in  the  straight  road  of  historical  continuity,  without 
interruption  and  without  deviation.  This  is  what  is  most  clearly 
proved  by  the  descriptions,  which  reflect  not  the  world,  but  the 
view  that  the  poet  is  capable  of  taking  of  the  world.  I  will  quote, 
for  the  sake  of  comparison,  some  characteristic  passages  from 
Notre  Dame  de  Paris,  by  Victor  Hugo,  and  from  different  novels 
by  Zola,  which  will  show  the  reader  that  both  could  be  very 
easily  confounded,  the  self-styled  inventor  of 'naturalism'  and  the 
extreme  romanticist.  '  The  broom  ransacked  the  corners  with 
an  irritated  growling.'  *  The  Kyrie  Eleison  ran  like  a  shiver 
into  this  kind  of  stable.'  *  The  pulpit  .  .  .  stood  in  front  of 
a  clock  with  weights,  enclosed  in  a  walnut  wood  case,  and  the 
hollow  vibrations  of  which  shook  the  whole  church,  like  the 
beatings  of  an  enormous  heart,  hidden  somewhere  beneath 
the  flag-stones.'  *  The  rays  [of  the  sun],  more  and  more 
horizontal,  withdraw  slowly  from  the  pavement  of  the  square, 
and  mount  perpendicularly  along  the  gabled  front,  making  its 
thousand  bas-reliefs  spring  out  from  their  shadow,  while  the 
great  central  rose-window  blazes  like  a  Cyclop's  eye  inflamed 
by  the  glow  of  the  forge.'  '  When  the  priest  .  .  .  quitted  the 
altar  .  .  .  the  sun  remained  sole  master  of  the  church.  It 
had  rested  in  its  turn  on  the  altar  cloth,  illuminated  the  door 
of  the  tabernacle  with  splendour,  celebrating  the  fruitful 
promise  of  May.  A  warmth  arose  from  the  flag-stones.  The 
whitewashed  walls,  the  great  Virgin,  the  great  Christ  himself. 


REALISM  '  493 

took  on  a  shiver  of  vital  sap  [!],  as  if  death  had  been  van- 
quished by  the  eternal  youth  of  the  earth.'  *  In  a  crevice  of 
this  spout  two  pretty  gilliflowers  in  blossom,  shaken  and 
animated  by  the  breath  of  the  air,  made  sportive  salutations 
to  each  other.'  '  At  one  of  the  windows  a  great  service-tree 
reared  itself,  throwing  its  branches  across  the  broken  panes, 
extending  its  shoots  as  if  to  look  within.'  'Towards  the  east, 
the  morning  breeze  chased  some  white  flocks  of  down  across 
the  sky,  torn  from  the  foggy  fleece  of  the  hills.''  '  The  closed 
windows  slept.  Some  few,  here  and  there,  brightly  lit,  opened 
their   eyes,    and    seemed    to    make    certain    corners    squint.' 

*  Already  some  whiffs  of  smoke  were  disgorged  here  and  there 
over  all  that  surface  of  roofs,  as  by  the  fissures  of  an  immense 
sulphur-kiln.'  '  A  miserable  guillotine,  furtive,  uneasy,  ashamed, 
which  seems  always  afraid  of  being  caught  in  flagrante  delicto, 
so  quickly  does  it  disappear  after  having  given  its  blow.'  '  The 
alembic  went  on  dully,  without  a  flame,  or  any  gaiety  in  the 
extinct  reflexions  of  its  coppers,  letting  flow  its  alcoholic  sweat, 
like  a  slow  and  obstinate  spring,  which  should  end  by  invading 
the  rooms,  spreading  over  the  boulevards  without  inundating 
the  immense  hollow  of  Paris.'  '  At  the  barrier,  the  herd-like 
trampling  went  on  in  the  cold  of  the  morning.  .  .  .  This  crowd, 
from  a  distance,  was  a  chalky  blur,  a  neutral  tone,  in  which 
a  faded  blue  and  dirty  gray  predominated.  Occasionally,  a 
workman  stopped  short  .  .  .  while  around  him  the  others 
walked  on,  without  a  smile,  without  a  word  to  a  comrade, 
with  cadaverous  cheeks,  faces  turned  towards  Paris,  which,  one 
by  one,  devoured  them  by  the  gaping  street  of  the  Faubourg 
Poissonniere.'  '  And  then,  as  he  dived  farther  into  the  street,  leg- 
less cripples,  blind  and  lame  men  multiplied  around  him  ;  the 
one-armed  and  the  one-eyed,  and  the  lepers  with  their  wounds, 
some  coming  from  the  houses,  some  from  the  adjacent  small 
streets,  some  from  the  air-holes  of  cellars,  howling,  bellowing, 
screaming,  all  limpingly,  lamely,  rushing  towards  the  light,  and 
wallowing  in  the  mire  like  snails  after  rain.'  '  The  square  .  .  . 
presented  .  .  .  the  appearance  of  a  sea,  in  which  five  or  six 
streets,  like  so  many  mouths  of  rivers,  discharged  new  waves 
of  heads  at  every  instant.  .  .  .  The  great  stairs,  ascended 
and  descended  without  intermission  by  a  double  stream  .  .  . 
flowed  incessantly  into  the  square,  like  a  cascade  into  a  lake.' 

*  The  flickering  brightness  of  the  flames  made  them  appear  to 
move.  There  were  serpents  which  had  the  appearance  of 
laughing,  gargoyles  that  one  seemed  to  hear  yelping,  salaman- 
ders which  breathed  in  the  fire,  dragons  which  sneezed  in  the 
smoke.'  *  And  the  steam-engine,  ten  paces  off,  went  on  steadily 
breathing,   steadily  spitting   from   its    scorched  metal   throat.' 

*  These  were  no  longer  the  cold  windows  of  the  morning;  now 


494  DEGENERATION 

they  appeared  as  if  warmed  and  vibrating  with  internal  tremor. 
There  were  people  looking  at  them,  women,  standing  still, 
squeezing  against  the  plate-glass,  quite  a  crowd  brutalized  by 
covetousness.  And  the  stuffs  seemed  alive  in  this  passion  of 
the  pavement :  the  laces  shivered,  fell  back  and  hid  the  depths 
of  the  shop,  with  a  disquieting  air  of  mystery.'  It  would  be 
easy  to  extend  these  comparisons  to  some  hundreds  of  pages. 
I  have  indulged  in  the  little  joke  of  not  adding  the  author's 
name  to  the  passages  quoted.  By  the  nature  of  the  object 
described  the  specially  attentive  reader  will  perhaps  be  able 
to  guess  in  one  or  another  of  these  quotations,  whether  they 
are  from  Victor  Hugo  or  from  Emile  Zola  ;  I  have  tried  to 
facilitate  the  matter  by  borrowing  the  passages  by  Victor  Hugo 
from  the  Notre  Dame  de  Paris  alone ;  but  the  greatest  number 
he.  will  certainly  not  know  to  whom  to  attribute  until  I 
tell  him  that  examples  three,  five,  seven,  nine,  ten,  thirteen, 
fourteen,  and  fifteen,  are  from  Victor  Hugo,  and  all  the  others 
from  Zola. 

This  is  because  the  latter  is  an  out-and-out  romanticist  in 
his  way  of  envisaging  the  world  and  in  his  artistic  method. 
He  constantly  practises  in  the  most  extensive  and  intensive 
fashion  that  atavistic  anthropomorphism  and  symbolism,  con- 
sequent on  undeveloped  or  mystically  confused  thought,  which 
is  found  among  savages  in  a  natural  form,  and  among  the 
whole  category  of  degenerates  in  an  atavistic  form  of  mental 
activity.  Like  Victor  Hugo,  and  like  second-class  romanticists, 
M.  Zola  sees  every  phenomenon  monstrously  magnified  and 
weirdly  distorted.  It  becomes  for  him,  as  for  the  savage,  a 
fetish  to  which  he  attributes  evil  and  hostile  designs.  Machines 
are  horrible  monsters  dreaming  of  destruction ;  the  streets  of 
Paris  open  the  jaws  of  Moloch  to  devour  the  human  masses; 
a  magasin  de-  modes  is  an  alarming,  supernaturally  powerful 
being,  panting,  fascinating,  stifling,  etc.  Criticism  has  long 
since  declared,  though  without  comprehending  the  psychi- 
atrical significance  of  this  trait,  that  in  every  one  of  M.  Zola's 
novels  some  phenomenon  dominates,  like  an  obsession,  forms 
the  main  feature  of  the  work,  and  penetrates,  like  an  appalling 
symbol,  into  the  life  and  actions  of  all  the  characters.  Thus, 
in  UAssommoir,  the  still;  in  Pot-Bouille,  the  'solemn  stair- 
case'; in  Au  Bonheur  des  Dames,  the  draper's  shop;  in  Nana, 
the  heroine  herself,  who  is  no  ordinary  harlot,  but  '  je  ne  sais 
quel  monstre  geant  a  la  croupe  gonjiee  de  vices,  une  enonne  Venus 
populaire,  aiissi  lourdement  bete  que  grossievement  iuipiLdJque,  une 
espece  d'idole  hindoue  qui  n'asetdement  qii'  d  laisser  tomber  ses  voiles 
pour  /aire  tomber  en  arret  les  viellards  et  les  collegiens,  et  qui,  par 
instants,  se  sent  elle-meme  planer  sur  Paris  et  sur  le  monde."^     This 

*  F.  Bruneti^re,  op.  cit.,  p.  156, 


^  REALISM  495 

symbolism  we  have  encountered  among  all  degenerates,  among 
symbolists  properly  so  called,  and  other  mystics,  as  well  as 
among  diabolists,  and  principally  in  Ibsen.  It  never  fails 
in  the  madness  of  doubt  or  negation.*  The  would-be 
*  realist '  sees  the  sober  reality  as  little  as  a  superstitiously 
timid  savage,  or  a  lunatic  afflicted  by  hallucinations.  He  puts 
into  it  his  own  mental  dispositions.  He  disposes  of  pheno- 
mena arbitrarily,  so  that  they  appear  to  express  an  idea  which 
is  dominating  him.  He  gives  to  inanimate  objects  a  fantastic 
life,  and  metamorphoses  them  into  so  many  goblins  endowed 
with  feeling,  will,  cunning  and  ideas;  but  of  human  beings 
he  makes  automata  through  whom  a  mysterious  power  declares 
itself,  a  fatality  in  the  ancient  sense,  a  force  of  Nature,  a  prin- 
ciple of  destruction.  His  endless  descriptions  delineate  nothing 
but  his  own  mental  condition.  No  image  of  reality  is  ever 
obtained  by  them,  for  the  picture  of  the  world  is  to  him  like  a 
freshly  varnished  oil-painting  to  which  one  stands  too  close  in 
a  disadvantageous  light,  and  hi  which  the  reflection  of  one's 
own  face  may  be  discerned. 

M.  Zola  calls  his  series  of  novels  'The  Natural  and  Social 
History  of  a  Family  under  the  Second  Empire,'  and  he  seeks 
in  this  way  to  awaken  the  double  idea  that  the  Rougon- 
Macquarts  are  a  typical  average  family  of  the  French  middle 
class,  and  that  their  history  represents  the  general  social 
life  of  France  in  the  time  of  Napoleon  III.  He  expressly 
asserts,  as  the  fundamental  principle  of  art,  that  the  novelist 
should  only  relate  the  everyday  life  observed  by  himself.f 
I  allowed  myself  for  thirteen  years  to  be  led  astray  by  his 
swagger,  and  credulously  accepted  his  novels  as  sociological 
contributions  to  the  knowledge  of  French  life.  Now  I  know 
better.  The  family  whose  history  Zola  presents  to  us  in 
twenty  mighty  volumes  is  entirely  outside  normal  daily  life, 
and  has  no  necessary  connection  whatever  with  France  and  the 
Second  Empire.  It  might  just  as  well  have  lived  in  Patagonia, 
and  at  the  time  of  the  Thirty  Years'  War.  He  who  ridicules 
the  '  idealists  '  as  being  narrators  of  '  exceptional  cases,'  of 
that  which  '  never  happened,'  has  chosen  for  the  subject  of  his 
magnum  opus  the  most  exceptional  case  he  could  possibly  have 

*  'Everything  is  a  mystery.  Everything  is  a  semblance.  Nothing  really 
exists.'  The  saying  of  one  of  Arnaud's  patients  afflicted  with  the  mania  of 
negation.  See  F.  L.  Arnaud, '  Sur  le  D^lire  des  Negations,'  Annates  medico- 
psychologiques^  y^  s^rie,  t.  xvi.,  p.  387  et  seq. 

t  '  I  would  lay  humanity  on  a  white  page,  all  things,  all  beings,  a  work 
which  would  be  a  vast  ark.'  —  E.  Zola,  preface  to  La  Fattte  de  V Abbi 
Mouret,  edition  of  1875.  'Throw  yourself  into  the  commonplace  current  of 
existence.'  '  Choose  for  your  hero  a  person  in  the  simplicify  of  daily  life.' 
'No  hollow  apotheoses,  no  grand  false  sentiments,  no  ready-made  formula;.* 
• — E.  Zola,  Le  Roman  experimental,  passim. 


496  DEGENERATION 

found — a  group  of  degenerates,  lunatics,  criminals,  prostitutes, 
and  *  mattoids,'  whose  morbid  nature  places  them  apart  from 
the  species ;  who  do  not  belong  to  a  regular  society,  but  are 
expelled  from  it,  and  at  strife  with  it;  who  conduct  themselves 
as  complete  strangers  to  their  epoch  and  country,  and  are,  by 
their  manner  of  existence,  not  members  of  any  modern  civilized 
people  whatever,  but  belong  to  a  horde  of  primitive  wild  men  of 
bygone  ages.  M.  Zola  affirms  that  he  describes  life  as  he  has 
observed  it,  and  persons  he  has  seen.  He  has  in  reality  seen 
nothing  and  observed  nothing,  but  has  drawn  the  idea  of  his 
magnum  opus,  all  the  details  of  his  plan,  all  the  characters  of  his 
twenty  novels,  solely  from  one  printed  source,  remaining  hitherto 
unknown  to  all  his  critics,  a  characteristic  circumstance  due  to 
the  fact  that  not  one  of  them  possesses  the  least  knowledge  of  the 
literature  of  mental  therapeutics.  There  is  in  France  a  family 
of  the  name  of  Kerangal,  who  came  originally  from  .Saint- 
Brieuc,  in  Brittany,  and  whose  history  has  for  the  last  sixty 
years  filled  the  annals  of  criminal  justice  and  mental  therapeu- 
tics. In  two  generations  it  has  hitherto  produced,  to  the 
knowledge  of  the  authorities,  seven  murderers  and  murderesses, 
nine  persons  who  have  led  an  immoral  life  (one  the  keeper  of 
a  disorderly  house,  one  a  prostitute  who  was  at  the  same  time 
an  incendiary,  committed  incest,  and  was  condemned  for  a 
public  outrage  on  modesty,  etc.),  and  besides  all  these,  a 
painter,  a  poet,  an  architect,  an  actress,  several  who  were 
blind,  and  one  musician.*  The  history  of  this  Kerangal  family 
has  supplied  M.  Zola  with  material  for  all  his  novels.  What 
would  never  have  been  afforded  him  in  the  life  he  really  knows 
he  found  ready  to  his  hand  in  the  police  and  medical  reports 
on  the  Kerangals,  viz.,  an  abundant  assortment  of  the  most 
execrable  crimes,  the  most  unheard-of  adventures,  and  the 
maddest  and  most  disordered  careers,  permeated  by  artistic  in- 
clinations which  make  the  whole  particularly  piquant.  If  any 
common  fabricator  of  newspaper  novels  had  had  the  luck  to 
discover  the  treasure  he  would  probably  have  made  a  hash  of 
the  subject.  M.  Zola,  with  his  great  power  and  his  sombre 
emotionalism,  has  known  how  to  profit  very  effectively  by  it. 
Nevertheless,  the  subject  he  broaches  is  the  ronian  du  colportage, 
i.e.,  of  a  perishing  romanticism  which  transports  his  dreams 
into  no  palaces  like  the  flourishing  romanticism,  but  into  dens, 
prisons,  and  lunatic  asylums,  which  are  quite  as  far  from  the 

*  The  family  of  Kerangal  has  been  the  subject  of  many  works,  and  is  well 
known  in  technical  literature.  The  last  published  work  on  them  is  due  to 
Dr.  Paul  Aubry  :  '  Une  Famille  de  Cr\m\ne\s,'  A nna/es  nicdico-psychologiqiies, 
7^  series,  t.  xvi.,  p.  429  (reproduced  in  La  Contagion  dii  Meiirtre,  by  the 
same  author  ;  Paris,  1894).  See  especially,  pp.  432,  433,  the  curious  genealo- 
gical tree  of  the  family,  in  which  Zola's  celebrated  genealogical  tree  of  the 
Rougon-Macquart  and  the  Quenu-Gradelie  can  be  immediately  recognised. 


REALISM  497 

middle  stratum  of  sane  life  as  the  latter,  only  in  an  opposite 
direction,  tending  not  upwards,  but  downwards.  But  if 
M.  Zola  has  infinitely  more  talent  than  the  German  roman- 
ticists, to  whoni  we  owe  such  works  as  Rinaldo  Rinaldini,  Die 
bhitige  Nonne  um  Mitternacht,  Der  Scharfrichter  vom  Schrecken- 
stein,  etc.,  he  has,  on  the  other  hand,  infinitely  less  honesty 
than  they.  For  they,  at  least,  admit  that  they  relate  the 
most  marvellous  and  unique  horrors  of  their  kind,  while  Zola 
issues  his  chronicles  of  criminals  and  madmen,  the  fruits  of 
his  reading,  as  a  normal  account  of  French  society,  drawn 
from  the  observation  of  daily  life. 

By  choosing  his  subject  in  the  domain  of  the  most  extraor- 
dinary and  most  exceptional,  by  the  childish  or  crazy  symbo- 
lism and  anthropomorphism  displayed  in  his  extremely  unreal 
survey  of  the  world,  the  '  realist '  Zola  proves  himself  to  be  the 
immediate  descendant  in  a  direct  line  of  the  romanticists. 
His  works  are  distinguished  from  those  of  his  literary  ancestors 
by  only  two  peculiarities,  which  M.  Brunetiere  has  well  dis- 
cerned, viz.,  by  'pessimism  and  premeditated  coarseness.'* 
These  peculiarities  of  M.  Zola  furnish  us  finally  with  a  charac- 
teristic sign  also  of  so-called  realism  or  naturalism,  which  we 
should  have  in  vain  attempted  to  discover  by  psychological, 
aesthetic,  historical,  and  literary  inquiries.  Naturalism,  which 
has  nothing  to  do  with  Nature  or  reality,  is,  taken  all  in  all, 
the  premeditated  worship  of  pessimism  and  obscenity. 

Pessimism,  as  a  philosophy,  is  the  last  remains  of  the  super- 
stition of  primitive  times,  which  looked  upon  man  as  the 
centre  and  end  of  the  universe.  It  is  one  of  the  philosophic 
forms  of  ego-mania.  All  the  objections  of  pessimist  philoso- 
phers to  Nature  and  life  have  but  one  meaning,  if  their  premise 
be  correct  as  to  the  sovereignty  of  man  in  the  Cosmos.  When 
the  philosopher  says.  Nature  is  irrational.  Nature  is  immoral, 
Nature  is  cruel,  what  is  this,  in  other  words,  but  :  I  do  not 
understand  Nature,  and  yet  she  is  only  there  that  I  may  under- 
stand her ;  Nature  does  not  consider  what  is  for  my  utility 
alone,  and  yet  she  has  no  other  task  than  to  be  useful  to  me ; 
Nature  grants  me  but  a  short  period  of  existence,  often  crossed 
by  troubles,  and  yet  it  is  her  duty  to  make  provision  for  the 
eternity  of  my  life  and  my  continual  joys  ?  When  Oscar 
Wilde  is  indignant  that  Nature  makes  no  difference  between 
himself  and  the  grazing  ox,  we  smile  at  his  childishness.  But 
have  Schopenhauer,  Hartmann,  Mainlander,  Bahnsen,  done 
anything  more  than  inflate  into  thick  books  Oscar  Wilde's 
ingenuous  self-conceit  ?  and  that  with  terrible  seriousness. 
Philosophic  pessimism  has  the  geocentric  conception  of  the 
world  as  its  postulate.     It  stands  and  falls  with  the  Ptolemaic 

*  Brunetiere,  o/>.  cit.^  p.  iii. 
32 


498  DEGENERATION 

doctrine.  As  soon  as  we  recognise  the  Copernican  point  of 
view  we  lose  the  right,  and  also  the  desire  to  apply  to  Nature 
the  measure  of  our  logic,  our  morals,  and  our  own  advantage, 
and  there  ceases  to  be  any  meaning  in  calling  it  irrational, 
immoral,  or  cruel. 

But  what  is  also  true  is  that  pessimism  is  not  a  philosophy, 
but  a  temperament.  'The  systemic  or  organic  sensations 
which  arise  from  the  simultaneous  states  of  the  several  organs, 
digestive,  respiratory,  etc.,'  says  Professor  James  Sully,  'appear, 
as  Professor  Ferrier  has  lately  pointed  out,  to  be  the  basis  of 
our  emotional  life.  When  the  condition  of  these  organs  is  a 
healthy  one,  and  their  functions  vigorous,  the  psychical  result 
is  an  undiscriminated  mass  of  agreeable  feeling.  When  the 
state  of  the  organs  is  unhealthy,  and  their  functions  feeble  or 
impeded,  the  psychical  result  is  a  similar  mass  of  disagreeable 
feeling.'*  Pessimism  is  always  the  form  under  which  the 
patient  becomes  conscious  of  certain  morbid  conditions,  and 
first  and  foremost  of  his  nervous  exhaustion.  Tcedium  vitcB, 
or  disgust  of  life,  is  an  early  premonition  of  insanity,  and  con- 
stantly accompanies  neurasthenia  and  hysteria.  It  is  evident 
that  a  period  which  suffers  from  general  organic  fatigue  must 
necessarily  be  a  pessimistic  period.  We  recognise  also  the 
constant  habit  which  consciousness  has  of  \nwenimg,  post  facto, 
apparently  plausible  motives,  borrowed  from  its  store  of  repre- 
sentations, and  in  conformity  with  the  rules  of  its  formal  logic, 
to  justify  the  emotional  states  of  which  it  has  acquired  the 
knowledge.  Thus,  for  the  datum  of  the  pessimistic  disposition 
of  mind,  which  is  the  consequence  of  organic  fatigue,  there 
arises  the  pessimist  philosophy  as  an  ulterior  creation  of 
interpretative  consciousness.  In  Germany,  in  conformity  with 
the  speculative  tendency  and  high  intellectual  culture  of  the 
German  people,  this  state  of  mind  has  sought  expression  in 
philosophical  systems.  In  France  it  has  adopted  an  artistic 
form  in  accordance  with  the  predominating  aesthetic  character 
of  the  national  mind.  M.  Emile  Zola  and  his  naturalism  are  the 
French  equivalent  of  the  German  Schopenhauer  and  his  philo- 
sophical pessimism.  That  naturalism  should  see  nothing  in 
the  world  but  brutality,  infamy,  ugliness,  and  corruption, 
corresponds  with  all  that  we  know  of  the  laws  of  thought. 
We  know  that  the  association  of  ideas  is  strongly  influenced 
by  emotion.  A  Zola,  filled  from  the  outset  with  organically 
unpleasant  sensations,  perceives  in  the  world  those  phenomena 
alone  which  accord  with  his  organically  fundamental  disposi- 
tion, and  does  not  notice  or  take  into  consideration  those 
which  differ  from  or  contradict  it.     And  from  the  associated 

♦  James  Sully,  Pessimistft :  A  History  afid  a  Criticism.  London,  1877, 
p.  411. 


REALISM 


499 


ideas  which  every  perception  awakens  in  him,  consciousness 
likewise  only  retains  the  disagreeable,  which  are  in  sympathy 
with  the  fundamentally  sour  disposition,  and  suppresses  the 
others.  Zola's  novels  do  not  prove  that  things  are  badly 
managed  in  this  world,  but  merely  that  Zola's  nervous  system 
is  out  of  order. 

His  predilection  also  for  coarseness  is  a  well-known  morbid 
phenomenon.  *  They '  (the  imbeciles),  says  Sollier,  *  love  to 
talk  of  obscenities.  .  .  .  This  is  a  peculiar  tendency  of  mind 
observable  specially  among  degenerates  ;  it  is  as  natural  to 
them  as  a  wholesome  "  tone  "  is  to  normal  minds.'*  Gilles 
de  la  Tourette  has  coined  the  word  '  coprolalia '  (mucktalk) 
for  obsessional  explosions  of  blasphemies  and  obscenities 
which  characterize  a  malady  described  most  exhaustively  by 
M.  Catrou,  and  called  by  him  *  disease  of  convulsive  tics.'^ 
M.  Zola  is  affected  by  coprolalia  to  a  very  high  degree.  It  is 
a  necessity  for  him  to  employ  foul  expressions,  and  his  con- 
sciousness is  continually  pursued  by  representations  referring 
to  ordure,  abdominal  functions,  and  everything  connected  with 
them.  Andreas  Verga  described  some  years  ago  a  form  of 
onomatomania,  or  word -madness,  which  he  called  mania 
blasphematoria,  or  oath-madness.  It  is  manifested  when  the 
patient  experiences  an  irresistible  desire  to  utter  curses  or 
blasphemies.  Verga's  diagnosis  applies  completely  to  Zola.  It 
can  only  be  interpreted  as  mania  blasphematoria,  when  in  La 
Terre  he  gives  the  nickname  of  Jesus  Christ  to  a  creature 
afflicted  with  flatulency,  and  that  without  any  artistic  necessity 
or  any  aiming  thereby  at  aesthetic  effect  either  of  cheerfulness 
or  of  local  colour.  Finally,  he  has  a  striking  predilection  for 
slang,  for  the  professional  language  of  thieves  and  bullies,  etc., 
which  he  does  not  only  employ  when  making  personages  of 
this  kind  speak,  but  makes  use  of  himself,  as  an  author,  in  de- 
scriptions or  reflections.  This  inclination  for  slang  is  expressly 
noticed  by  Lombroso  as  an  indication  of  degeneration  in  the 
born  criminal.  J 

The  confusion  of  thought  which  is  shown  in  his  theoretic 
writings,  in  his  invention  of  the  word  '  naturalism,'  in  his 
conception  of  the  *  experimental  novel,'  his  instinctive  inclina- 
tion to  depict  demented  persons,  criminals,  prostitutes,  and 
semi-maniacs,§  his  anthropomorphism  and  his  symbolism,  his 

*  Dr.  Paul  Sollier,  Psychologie  de  P Idiot  et  de  VImbicile.  Paris,  1891, 
p.  95. 

f  Catrou,  ittude  siir  la  Maladie  des  Tics  convuhifs  (Jumping,  Latah, 
Myriachit).     Paris,  1890. 

%  Lombroso,  U  Uonio  delinqiiente,  etc.,  pp.  450-480. 

§  His  descriptions  of  impulsive  criminals  are  not  really  exact.  The  laity 
have  greatly  admired  his  description  of  the  assassin  Lantier  in  La  Bete 
humaine.     The  most  competent  judge  in  such  matters,  however,  Lombroso, 


500  DEGENERATION 

pessimism,  his  coprolalia,  and  his  predilection  for  slang, 
sufficiently  characterize  M.  Zola  as  a  high-class  degenerate. 
But  he  shows  in  addition  some  peculiarly  characteristic 
stigmata,  which  completely  establish  the  diagnosis. 

That  he  is  a  sexual  psychopath  is  betrayed  on  every  page 
of  his  novels.  He  revels  continually  in  representations  from 
the  region  of  the  basest  sensuality,  and  interweaves  them  in 
all  the  events  of  his  novels  without  being  able  in  any  way  to 
assign  an  artistic  reason  for  this  forced  introduction.  His 
consciousness  is  peopled  with  images  of  unnatural  vice, 
bestiality,  passivism,  and  other  aberrations,  and  he  is  not 
satisfied  with  lingering  libidinously  over  human  acts  of  such 
a  nature,  but  he  even  produces  pairing  animals  (see  La  Terre, 
pp.  9,  lo).  The  sight  of  a  woman's  linen  produces  a  peculiar 
excitation  in  him,  and  he  can  never  speak  without  betray- 
ing, by  the  emotional  colouring  of  his  descriptions,  that  re- 
presentations of  this  kind  are  voluptuously  accentuated  in 
him.  This  effect  of  female  linen  on  degenerates  affected  by 
sexual  psychopathy  is  well  known  in  mental  therapeutics,  and 
has  often  been  described  by  Krafft-Ebing,  Lombroso,  and 
others.* 

Connected  with  the  sexual  psychopathy  of  M.  Zola  is  the 
part  played  in  him  by  the  olfactory  sensations.  The  pre- 
dominance of  the  sense  of  smell  and  its  connection  with  the 
sexual  life  is  very  striking  among  many  degenerates.  Scents 
acquire  a  high  importance  in  their  works.  Tolstoi  (in  War 
and  Peace)  represents  to  us  Prince  Pierre  suddenly  decidmg 
on  marrying  the  Princess  Helene  when  he  smells  her  fragrance 
at  a  ball.f     In  the  narrative  entitled   The  Cossacks  he  never 

says  of  this  character,  which  has  been  inspired  in  M.  Zola,  according  to  his 
own  declaration,  by  UUomo  delinquente :  '  M.  Zola,  in  my  opinion,  has 
never  observed  criminals  in  real  life.  .  .  .  His  criminal  characters  give  me 
the  impression  of  the  wanness  and  inaccuracy  of  certain  photographs  which 
reproduce  portraits,  not  from  Nature,  but  from  pictures.' — Le  pin  recenti 
scoperte  ed  applicazioni  delta  psichiatria  ed  antropologia  criminate.  Con 
3  tavote  e  ^2  figure  net  testo.     Torino,  1893,  P-  356- 

*  Dr.  R.  von  Krafft-Ebing,  Psyclwpathia  Sexuatis,  etc.,  3^  Auflage  ;  Stutt- 
gart, 1888.  Beobachtung  23,  Zippes  Fall,  s.  55  ;  Beobachtung  24,  Passow's 
Fall,  s.  56  ;  Aum.  zu  s.  57,  Lombroso's  Fall. 

Ccesare  Lombroso,  Le  piu  recenti  scoperte,  etc.,  p.  227  :  '  He  always  had 
voluptuous  sensations  on  seeing  animals  killed,  or  in  perceiving  in  shops 
feminine  under-garments  and  linen.'  The  case  of  which  Lombroso  here 
speaks  is  that  of  a  degenerate  of  fifteen  years  old,  who  had  been  observed  by 
Dr.  MacDonald,  of  Clark  University. 

•f  L^on  Tolstoi,  (Euvres  comptetes,  p.  385  :  '  He  smelt  the  warmth  of  her 
body,  inhaled  the  odour  of  her  perfumes  .  .  .  and  at  this  moment  Pierre 
understood  that  not  only  7nigJit  Helene  become  his  wife,  but  that  she  mtist 
become  so — that  nothing  else  was  possible.'  It  is  related  that  the  King  of 
France,  Henri  III.,  married  Marie  of  Cleves  because,  at  the  wedding  of  the 
King  of  Navarre  and  his  sister,  Marguerite  of  Valois,  wishing  to  dry  his  face 
in  the  chemise  wet  with  the  perspiration  of  the  young  princess,  he  was  so 


REALISM  501 

mentions  the  uncle  leroschka  without  speaking  of  the  smell 
he  emitted.*  We  have  seen  in  the  previous  chapters  with 
what  satisfaction  the  Diabolists  and  Decadents,  Baudelaire, 
Huysmans,  etc.,  lingered  on  odours,  and  especially  on  bad 
odours.  M.  Barres  makes  his  little  princess  say,  in  VEnnemi 
des  Lois  :  '  I  go  every  morning  to  the  stables.  Oh,  that 
little  stabley  smell,  so  warm  and  pleasant !  And  she  inhaled 
with  a  pretty  [!]  sensual  expression.  .  .  .'f  M.  de  Goncourt 
describes,  in  La  Faustin,  how  the  actress  lets  her  Lord 
Annandale  smell  her  bosom  :  '"Smell!  What  do  you  smell  ?" 
she  asked  Lord  Annandale.  *'  Why,  carnations  !"  he  replied, 
tasting  it  with  his  lips.  "  And  what  else  ?"  "  Your  skin  !"  'J 
M.  A.  Binet  declares  that  '  it  is  the  odours  of  the  human  body 
which  are  the  causes  responsible  for  a  certain  number  of 
marriages  contracted  by  clever  men  with  female  subordinates 
belonging  to  their  households.  For  certain  men,  the  most 
essential  thing  in  a  woman  is  not  beauty,  mind,  or  elevation 
of  character ;  it  is  her  smell.  The  pursuit  of  the  beloved  odour 
determines  them  to  pursue  some  ugly,  old,  vicious,  degraded 
woman.  Carried  to  this  point,  the  pleasure  in  smell  becomes 
a  malady  of  love'§ — a  malady,  I  will  add,  from  which  only 
the  degenerate  suffer.  The  examples  that  Binet  quotes  in 
the  course  of  his  work,  and  which  can  be  there  referred  to, 
as  I  have  no  inclination  to  repeat  them  here,  prove  this 
abundantly ;  and  Krafft-Ebing,  while  insisting  on  the  *  close 
connection  between  the  sexual  and  the  olfactory  sense,'  never- 
theless expressly  declares  :  '  At  all  events,  the  perceptions  of 
smell  play  a  very  subordinate  part  within  the  physiological 
limits  {i.e.,  within  the  limits  of  the  healthy  life).  ||  Even  after 
the  abstraction  of  its  sexual  significance,  the  development  of 
the  sense  of  smell  among  degenerates,  not  only  of  the  higher, 
but  even  of  the  lowest  type,  has  struck  many  observers. 
Seguin  speaks  of  '  idiots  who  discriminated  species  of  woods 
and  stones  merely  by  smell  without  having  recourse  to  sight, 
and  who,  nevertheless,  were  not  disagreeably  affected  by  the 
smell  and  taste  of  human  ordure,  and  whose  sense  of  touch 
was  obtuse  and  unequal.'IT 

intoxicated  by  the  scent  wliich  emanated  from  it,  that  he  had  no  rest  till  he 
had  won  her  who  had  borne  it.  See  Krafft-Ebing,  Psychopathia  Sexualis, 
p.  17. 

*  Ldon  Tolstoi,  CEuvres  coinpletes,  t.  ii.,  p.  385  :  'With  him  there  had 
come  into  the  room  a  strong,  but  not  disagreeable,  smell,'  etc. 

t  Maurice  Barres,  nE7inemi  des  Lois,  p.  47. 

X  Edmond  de  Goncourt,  La  Faustin.     Paris,  1882,  p,  267. 

§  Alfred  Binet,  Le  Fetichisme  dans  P Amour,  etc.,  p.  26.  This  passage 
will  make  the  German  reader  think  of  the  sniffer  of  souls,  G.  Jaeger ;  I  have 
no  occasion  to  mention  him  here. 

II   Dr.  R.  von  Krafift-Ebing,  Psychopathic  Sexualis,  p.  15,  foot-note,  p.  17. 

\  E.  Seguin,  Traitement  morale,  Hygiene  et  Education  des  Idiots.  PariSj 
1846. 


502  DEGENERATION 

M.  Zola's  case  belongs  to  this  series.  He  shows  at  times  an 
unhealthy  predominance  of  the  sensations  of  smell  in  his  con- 
sciousness, and  a  perversion  of  the  olfactory  sense  which  make 
the  worst  odours,  especially  those  of  all  human  excretions, 
appear  to  him  particularly  agreeable  and  sensually  stimulating. 
The  inspector  of  the  Montpellier  Academy,  Leopold  Bernard, 
has  taken  the  trouble,  in  an  elaborate  work— which,  curiously, 
has  remained  almost  unknown* — to  bring  together  all  the 
passages  in  Zola's  novels  which  touch  on  the  question  of 
odours,  and  to  show  that  men  and  things  do  not  present  them- 
selves to  him  as  to  normal  individuals,  viz.,  in  the  first  instance 
as  optical  and  acoustic  phenomena,  but  as  olfactory  percep- 
tions. He  characterizes  all  his  personages  by  their  smell.  In 
LaFaute  de  VAbheMouret,  Albine  appears  *  like  a  great  nosegay 
of  strong  scent.'  Serge,  at  the  seminary,  was  '  a  lily  whose 
sweet  scent  charmed  his  masters '  (!  !)  Desiree  '  smells  of 
health.'  Nana  *  degage  une  odeur  de  vie,  une  toute-ptnssance  de 
fenmie.'  In  Pot-Bouille,  Bachelard  exhales  '  une  odeur  de 
debauche  canaille ' ;  Madame  Campardon  has  '  a  good  fresh 
perfume  of  autumn  fruit.'  In  Le  Ventre  de  Paris,  Fran9oise 
'  smells  of  earth,  hay,  the  open  air,  the  open  sky.'  In  the  same 
novel  the  *  cheese-symphony '  occurs,  as  celebrated  among 
Zola's  enthusiasts  as  the  minute  description  of  the  variety  of 
offensive  smells  of  the  dirty  linen  in  L'Assommoir. 

To  the  '  comprehensives  '  whom  we  have  learnt  to  know, 
this  insistence  on  the  odours  emitted  by  men  and  things  is 
naturally  one  more  merit  and  perfection.  A  poet  who  scents 
so  well  and  receives  through  the  nose  such  rich  impressions  of 
the  world,  is  '  a  more  keenly  vibrating  instrument  of  observa- 
tion,' and  his  art  in  representing  things  is  more  many-sided 
than  that  of  poets  who  reproduce  their  impressions  from 
fewer  senses.  Why  should  the  sense  of  smell  be  neglected  in 
poetry  ?  Has  it  not  the  same  rights  as  all  the  other  senses  ? 
And  thereupon  they  rapidly  built  an  sesthetic  theory  which,  as 
we  have  seen,  induces  Huysmans'  Des  Esseintes  to  compose 
a  symphony  of  perfumes,  and  prompts  the  Symbolists  to 
accompany  the  recital  of  their  compositions  on  the  stage  with 
odours,  which  they  pretend  are  assorted  to  the  contents  of  the 
verses.  The  '  comprehensive  '  drivellers  do  not  for  a  moment 
suspect  that  they  are  simply  fencing  with  the  march  of  organic 
evolution  in  the  animal  kingdom.  It  does  not  depend  on  the 
good  pleasure  of  a  being  to  construct  for  himself  his  idea  of 
the  external  world  with  the  help  of  a  group  of  such  or  such  sense- 
perceptions.  In  this  respect  he  is  completely  subservient  to 
the  conformation  of  his  nervous  system.  The  senses  which 
predominate  are  those  which  his  being  utilizes  in  acquiring 

*  L.  Bernard,  Le  Odeurs  dans  le  Ro/na?ts  de  Zola.     Montpellier,  1889. 


REALISM  503 

knowledge.  The  undeveloped  or  insufficiently  developed  senses 
help  the  brain  little  or  not  at  all,  to  know  and  understand 
the  world.  To  the  vulture  and  condor  the  world  is  a  picture  ; 
to  the  bat  and  the  mole  it  is  a  sound  and  a  tactile  sensation  ;  to 
the  dog  it  is  a  collection  of  smells.  Concerning  the  sense  of 
smell  in  particular,  it  has  its  central  seat  in  the  so-called 
olfactory  lobe  of  the  brain,  which  diminishes  in  proportion  as 
the  frontal  lobe  is  developed.  The  more  we  descend  in  the 
vertebrates  the  greater  is  the  olfactory,  the  smaller  the  frontal, 
lobe.  In  man  the  olfactory  lobe  is  quite  subordinated,  and 
the  frontal  lobe,  the  presumable  seat  of  the  highest  mental 
functions,  including  language,  greatly  predominates.  The 
consequence  of  these  anatomical  relations,  which  evade  our 
influence,  is  that  the  sense  of  smell  has  scarcely  any  further 
share  in  man's  knowledge.  He  obtains  his  impressions  of  the 
external  world  no  longer  by  the  nose,  but  principally  by  the 
eye  and  ear.  The  olfactory  perceptions  only  furnish  a  mini- 
mum contribution  to  the  concepts  which  are  formed  out  of 
ideational  elements.  It  is  only  in  the  most  limited  degree 
that  smells  can  awaken  abstract  concepts,  i.e.,  a  higher  and 
complex  mental  activity,  and  stimulate  their  accompanying 
emotions  ;  a  '  symphony  of  perfumes '  in  the  Des  Esseintes 
sense  can,  therefore,  no  longer  give  the  impression  of  moral 
beauty,  this  being  an  idea  which  is  elaborated  by  the  centres 
of  conception.  In  order  to  inspire  a  man  with  logical  sequences 
of  ideas  and  judgments,  with  abstract  concepts  by  scents 
alone ;  to  make  him  conceive  the  phenomenon  of  the  world, 
its  changes  and  causes  of  motion,  by  a  succession  of  perfumes, 
his  frontal  lobe  must  be  depressed  and  the  olfactory  lobe  of  a 
dog  substituted  for  it,  and  this,  it  must  be  admitted,  is  beyond 
the  capacity  of  '  comprehensive '  imbeciles,  however  fanati- 
cally they  may  preach  their  aesthetic  folly.  Smellers  among 
degenerates  represent  an  atavism  going  back,  not  only  to  the 
primeval  period  of  man,  but  infinitely  more  remote  still,  to  an 
epoch  anterior  to  man.  Their  atavism  retrogrades  to  animals 
amongst  whom  sexual  activity  was  directly  excited  by  odoriferous 
substances,  as  it  is  still  at  the  present  day  in  the  muskdeer,  or 
who,  like  the  dog,  obtained  their  knowledge  of  the  world  by  the 
action  of  their  noses. 

The  extraordinary  success  of  Zola  among  his  contemporaries 
is  not  explained  by  his  high  qualifications  as  an  author,  that  is, 
by  the  extraordinary  force  and  power  of  his  romantic  descrip- 
tions, and  by  the  intensity  and  truth  of  his  pessimistic  emotion, 
which  makes  his  representation  of  suffering  and  sorrow  irre- 
sistibly impressive ;  but  by  his  worst  faults,  his  triviality  and 
lasciviousness.  This  can  be  proved  by  the  surest  of  methods, 
that  of  figures.     Let   us   consult   as  to  the   diffusion   of  his 


504 


DEGENERATION 


different  novels,  the  printed  indications,  for  example,  at  the 
beginning  of  the  last  edition  of  L'Assommoir  (bearing  the  date 
1893).  They  have  been  put  down  as  follows :  Of  Nana, 
160,000;  La  Debacle,  143,000;  UAssommoir,  127,000;  La 
Terre,  100,000 ;  Germinal,  88,000 ;  La  Bete  humaine  and  Le 
Reve,  each  83,000  ;  Pot-Bouille,  82,000 ;  as  a  contrast,  VQitivre 
55,000  ;  La  Joie  de  Vivre,  44,000 ;  La  Curee,  36,000 ;  La  Con- 
quete  de  Plassans,  25,000  ;  of  the  Contes  a  Ninon  not  even  2,000 
copies,  etc.  Thus,  the  novels  which  have  had  the  greatest 
sale  are  those  in  which  lust  and  bestial  coarseness  appear  most 
flagrantly,  and  the  demand  diminishes  with  mathematical 
exactitude  in  proportion  as  the  layer  of  obscenity,  spread  by 
Zola  over  his  work  as  with  a  mason's  trowel,  becomes  more 
thin  and  less  ill-smelling.  Three  novels  appear  as  an  exception 
to  this  rule  :  La  Debacle,  Germinal,  and  Le  Reve.  Their  high 
position  as  regards  the  number  of  the  editions  is  explained 
by  the  fact  that  the  first  treats  of  the  war  of  1870,  the  second 
of  socialism,  the  third  of  mysticism.  These  three  works  appeal 
to  the  frame  of  mind  of  the  period.  They  swim  with  the 
fashionable  current.  But  all  the  rest  have  owed  their  success 
to  the  lowest  instincts  of  the  masses,  to  its  brutish  passion 
for  the  sight  of  crime  and  voluptuousness. 

M.  Zola  was  bound  to  make  a  school — first,  because  of  his 
successes  in  the  book  trade,  which  drove  into  his  wake  the 
whole  riff-raff  of  literary  intriguers  and  plagiarists,  and  then 
because  of  the  facility  with  which  his  most  striking  peculiarities 
can  be  imitated.  His  art  is  accessible  to  every  bungler  of 
the  day  who  dishonours  the  literary  vocation  by  his  slovenly 
hand.  An  empty  and  mechanical  enumeration  of  completely 
indifferent  aspects  under  the  pretext  of  description  exacts  no 
effort.  Every  porter  of  a  brothel  is  capable  of  relating  a  low 
debauch  with  the  coarsest  expressions.  The  only  thing  which 
might  offer  some  difficulty  would  be  the  invention  of  a  plot, 
the  construction  of  a  frame  of  action.  But  M.  Zola,  whose 
strength  does  not  lie  in  the  gift  of  story-telling,  boasts  of  this 
imperfection  as  a  special  merit,  and  proclaims  as  a  rule  of 
art  that  the  poet  must  have  nothing  to  relate.  This  rule  suits 
excellently  the  noxious  insects  who  crawl  behind  him.  Their 
impotence  becomes  their  most  brilliant  quahfication.  They 
know  nothing,  they  can  do  nothing,  and  they  are  on  that 
account  particularly  adapted  to  *  die  Moderne,^  as  they  say  in 
Germany.  Their  so-called  '  novels '  depict  neither  human 
beings,  nor  characters,  nor  destinies  ;  but,  thou  poor  Philistine 
who  canst  not  see  it,  it  is  precisely  this  which  constitutes 
their  value  ! 

Moreover,  justice  exacts  that  among  Zola's  imitators  two 
groups  should  be  distinguished.     The  one  cultivates  chiefly  his 


REALISM 


50s 


pessimism,  and  accepts  his  obscenities  into  the  bargain,  though 
without  enthusiasm,  and  often  even  with  visible  embarrass- 
ment and   secret    repugnance.      It   consists   of   hysteric   and 
degenerate  subjects  who  are  bond  fide,  who,  in  consequence 
of  their   organic  constitution,  actually  feel   pessimistic,  and 
have  found  in  Zola  the  artistic  formula  which  corresponds 
most  truly  with  their  sentiments.     I  place  in  this  group  some 
dramatic  authors  of  the  '  Theatre- Libre  '  in   Paris,  directed 
by  M.  Antoine;   and  the  Italian  '  Verists.'     The  naturalistic 
theatre  is  the  most  untrue  thing  that  has  been  seen  hitherto, 
even  more  untrue  than  the  operetta  and  the  fairy-play.     It 
cultivates  the  so-called  '  cruel  terms,'  i.e.,  phrases  in  which 
the  persons  openly  make  a  display  of  all  the  pitiable,  infamous 
and    cowardly  ideas  and  feelings  which   surge  through  their 
consciousness,  and  systematically  neglect  this  most  primitive 
and    palpable   fact,    that   by   far   the    most   widespread    and 
tenacious    characteristic   of  man    is   hypocrisy  and    dissimu- 
lation.     The   forms   of  customs   survive   incalculably  longer 
than  morality,  and  man  simulates  the  greater  honesty,  and 
hides   his   baseness   under    appearances   so    much   the   more 
seeming-pious,    as   his   instincts  are   more  crafty  and  mean. 
The  Verists,  among  whom  are  many  powerful  literary  natures, 
are  one  of  the  most  surprising  and  distressing  phenomena  in 
contemporary  literature.   One  understands  pessimism  in  sorely- 
tried  France  ;  one  comprehends  it  also  in  the  insupportable 
narrowness  of  social  Hfe  in  the  crepuscular  North,  with   its 
cloudy  gray  skies  and  its  scourge  of  alcoholism.     Eroticism, 
too,  is  comprehensible  among  the  over-excited  and  exhausted 
Parisian  population,  and  in  the  Scandinavian  North,  as  a  kind 
of  revolt  against  the  zealous  discipline  and  morose  constraint  of 
a  bigotry  without  joy,  and  mortifying  to  the  flesh.   But  how  could 
pessimism  spring  up  under  the  radiant  sunshine  and  eternally 
blue  sky  of  Italy,  in  the  midst  of  a  handsome  and  joyous  people 
who  sing  even  in  speaking(invalids  like  Leopardi  might  naturally 
appear  as  exceptions  everywhere)  ?  and  how  did  Italians  arrive 
at  insane  lubricity,  when  in  their  country  there  still  exists, 
living   in   the   temples  and  in   the    fields,   a  souvenir  of  the 
artlessly  robust  sensuality  of  the  pagan  world,  with  its  symbols 
of  fecundity  ;    where  also   natural   and  healthy  sexuality  has 
always  preserved  through  centuries  the  right  to  express  itself 
innocently  in  art  and  literature  ?     If  Verism  is  anything  else 
but  an  example  of  the  propagation  of  intellectual  epidemics 
by  imitation,  the    task    devolves    upon    the  scientific    Italian 
critic  to  explain  this  paradox  in  the  history  of  manners. 

The  other  group  of  Zola's  imitators  is  not  composed  of 
superior  degenerates,  unhealthy  persons  who  sincerely  give 
themselves  out  for  what  they  are,  and  express  often  with  talent 


5o6  DEGENERATION 

what  they  feel ;  but  of  people  who  morally  and  mentally  stand 
ci  a  level  with  supporters  of  evil,  who,  instead  of  the  trade  of 
night-birds,  have  chosen  the  less  dangerous  and  hitherto  more 
esteemed  vocation  of  authors  of  novels  and  dramas,  when  the 
theory  of  naturahsm  had  made  it  accessible  to  them.  This 
brood  has  only  taken  immodesty  from  M.  Zola,  and  con- 
formably with  the  degree  of  culture  has  carried  it  into  obscenity 
without  circumlocution.  To  this  group  belong  the  professional 
Parisian  pornographers,  whose  daily  and  weekly  papers,  stories, 
pictures,  and  theatrical  representations  in  M.  de  Chirac's  style, 
continually  give  employment  to  the  correctional  tribunals  ;  the 
Norwegian  authors  of  novels  on  street-walkers  ;  and,  unhappily, 
also  a  portion  of  our  '  Young  German '  reahsts.  This  group 
stands  outside  of  literature.  It  forms  a  portion  of  that  riff- 
raff of  great  towns  who  professionally  cultivate  immorality, 
and  have  chosen  this  trade  with  full  responsibility,  solely  from 
horror  of  honest  work  and  greed  for  lucre.  It  is  not  mental 
therapeutics,  but  criminal  justice,  which  is  competent  to  judge 
them. 


CHAPTER  II. 

THE    *  YOUNG-GERMAN  '    PLAGIARISTS. 

This  chapter  is  not,  properly,  within  the  scope  of  this  book. 
It  must  not  be  forgotten  that  I  did  not  wish  to  write  a  history 
of  literature,  nor  to  indulge  in  current  aesthetic  criticism,  but 
to  demonstrate  the  unhealthy  mental  condition  of  the  imitators 
of  fashionable  literary  tendencies.  It  does  not  enter  into  my 
plan  to  deal  with  those  degenerates  or  lunatics  who  evolve 
their  works  from  their  own  morbid  consciousness,  and  them- 
selves discover  the  artistic  formula  for  their  own  eccentricities 
— in  other  words,  with  those  leaders  who  go  their  own  way 
because  they  choose  or  because  they  must.  Mere  imitators  I 
have  neglected  on  principle  throughout  the  whole  of  my 
inquiry,  first  because  the  genuine  degenerates  only  form  a 
feeble  minority  among  them,  while  the  great  majority  is  a  per- 
fectly responsible  rabble  of  swindlers  and  parasites,  and  next 
because  even  the  few  diseased  persons  who  are  found  in  their 
ranks  do  not  belong  to  the  class  of  'higher'  degenerates,  but 
are  poor  weak  minds  who,  taken  separately,  possess  no  import- 
ance whatever,  and  at  most  only  deserve  a  fleeting  mention  in 
so  far  as  they  testify  to  the  influence  of  their  masters  on  ill- 
balanced  minds. 

If,  then,  in  spite  of  this,  I  devote  a  special  chapter  to  the 
so-called  '  Young-German  *  '  realists,'  while  I  have  despatched 


REALISM  507 

m  a  few  words  the  Italian  and  Scandinavian  Zolaists,  it  is 
verily  and  by  no  means  because  the  former  are  any  more 
worthy  than  the  latter.  On  the  contrary,  some  of  the  Italian 
*Verists/  the  Dane,  J.  P.  Jakobsen,  the  Norwegian,  Arne 
Garborg,  the  Swede,  Auguste  Strindberg,  devoid  as  they  are 
of  real  originality,  possess,  nevertheless,  more  vigour  and 
talent  in  their  little  finger  than  all  'Young-Germany'  put 
together.  I  only  dwell  on  the  latter  because  the  history  of 
the  propagation  of  a  mental  contagion  in  his  own  country 
is  not  without  importance  for  the  German  reader,  and  also 
because  the  way  in  which  this  group  has  appeared  and  per- 
meated shows  up  certain  traits  in  which  we  can  detect  the 
neurosis  of  the  age,  and,  lastly,  because  some  few  of  their 
members  are  good  examples  of  intensive  hysteria,  having,  in 
addition  to  complete  incapacity  and  a  general  feebleness  of 
mind,  that  malicious  and  anti-social  ego-mania,  that  moral 
obtuseness,  that  irresistible  need  of  attracting  attention  to  them- 
selves, no  matter  by  what  means,  that  facetious  vanity  and 
self-approbation,  which  characterizes  the  complaint. 

I  will  not  deny  that  when  I  turn  towards  the  '  Young- 
German  '  movement  I  can  scarcely  maintain  the  cool  equani- 
mity with  which,  according  to  scientific  method,  I  have 
hitherto  observed  any  given  phenomena.  As  a  German  writer 
I  feel  deep  shame  and  sorrow  at  the  spectacle  of  the  literature 
which  has  been  so  long  and  so  brutally  proclaimed,  with  flourish 
of  trumpets,  and  with  systematic  disdain  of  all  that  did  not  bear 
its  seal,  as  the  unique  and  exclusively  German  literature  of  the 
present  time,  and  even  that  of  the  future.* 

Since  genius  was  congregated  at  Weimar,  German  litera- 
ture has  ever  taken  the  lead  in  civilized  humanity.  We 
were  the  inventors,  foreigners  were  the  imitators.  We  pro- 
visioned the  world  with  poetic  forms  and  ideas.  Romanticism 
originated  among  us,  and  only  became  a  literary  and  artistic 

*  Le  Te7nps,  N°  du  13  Fdvrier,  1892:  'Current  literature  ...  is,  at 
present,  at  an  inconceivably  low  ebb  in  Germany.  From  one  end  of  the 
year  to  the  other  it  is  becoming  an  in^possibility  to  discover  a  novel,  a 
drama,  or  a  page  of  criticism  worthy  of  notice.  The  Deutsche  Rimdschau 
itself  recently  admitted  this  in  despair.  It  is  not  only  the  talent  and  the 
style  which  are  deficient— all  is  poor,  weak  and  flat  ;  one  might  imagine 
one's  self  in  Fiance,  in  the  time  of  Bouilly.  .  .  .  Even  the  desire  to  rise 
above  a  certain  level  of  ordinary  writing  seems  wanting.  One  ends  by  being 
thankful  to  any  contemporary  German  author  who  is  seen  to  be  making 
.  .  .  the  simplest  effort  not  to  write  like  a  crossing  -  sweeper.'  Every 
German  who  observes  all  the  literary  productions  of  his  contemporaries  will 
see  that  this  is  the  opinion  of  a  spiteful  enemy.  This  opinion,  nevertheless, 
is  explained  and  justified  by  the  fact  that  at  the  present  day  it  is  only  the 
'  realists '  who  make  enough  stir  to  be  heard  in  certain  places  abroad,  and 
that  there  the  natives  are  delighted  to  be  able  to  consider  them  as  repre- 
senting all  the  German  literature  of  the  day. 


5o8  DEGENERATION 

fashion  in  France  a  good  many  years  later,  whence  it  passed 
on  into  England.  Gorres,  Zacharias  Werner,  Novalis,  and 
Oscar  Von  Redwitz,  created  lyric  mysticism  and  neo- 
Catholicism  among  us,  and  these  have  only  just  reached 
France.  Our  poet-precursors  of  the  revolution  of  1848,  Karl 
Beck,  George  Herwegh,  Freiligrath,  Ludwig  Seeger,  Friedrich 
von  Sallet,  R.  E.  Prutz,  etc.,  had  even  then  sung  of  the 
misery,  the  uprisings,  and  the  hopes  of  the  disinherited,  before 
the  Walt  Whitmans,  the  William  Morrises,  and  the  Jules  Jouys, 
were  born,  men  whom  to-day  people  in  America,  England, 
and  France,  would  like  to  consider  as  the  discoverers  of  the 
Fourth  Estate  for  lyric  poetry.  Pessimism  was  embodied 
almost  at  the  same  time  in  Italy  (in  Leopardi)  and  among  us 
in  Nicholas  Lenau,  more  than  a  generation  before  French 
naturalism  built  its  art  upon  it.  Goethe  created  symbolic 
poetry  in  the  second  part  of  Faust  half  a  century  before  Ibsen 
and  the  French  Symbolists  parodied  this  tendency.  Every 
healthy  current  and  every  pathological  current  in  contem- 
porary poetry  and  art  can  be  traced  back  to  a  German  source, 
every  progress  and  every  decadence  in  this  sphere  have  their 
point  of  departure  in  Germany.  The  philosophical  theory 
of  every  novel  method  of  thought,  as  well  as  of  every  new 
error,  which,  during  a  hundred  years,  have  gained  a  hold  over 
civilized  humanity,  has  been  furnished  by  the  Germans. 
Fichte  gave  us  the  theory  of  romanticism ;  Feuerbach  (almost 
at  the  same  time  as  Auguste  Comte),  that  of  the  mechanical 
conception  of  the  world ;  Schopenhauer,  that  of  pessimism  ; 
the  Hegelians,  Max  Stirner,  and  Karl  Marx,  that  of  the  most 
rigid  ego-mania  and  the  most  rigid  collectivism,  etc.  And 
now  we  suffer  the  humiliation  of  seeing  a  heap  of  contemptible 
plagiarists  hawking  about  the  dullest  and  coarsest  counterfeit 
of  French  imitations  (which  all  the  clever  men  in  France 
have  already  abandoned  and  repudiated)  as  '  the  most  modern  ' 
production  offered  by  Germany,  as  the  flower  of  German 
literature,  present  and  future.  We  even  permit  foreign  critics 
to  say  :  '  Ancient  fashions  disdained  in  France  even  by  village 
beauties,  are  to  be  seen  exhibited  in  German  shop-windows 
as  the  greatest  novelties,  and  credulously  accepted  by  the 
public'  The  realists  naturally  deny  that  they  are  mere  re- 
peaters and  limping  belated  followers.*     But  he  who  knows 

*  Arno  Holz— Johannes  Schlaf,  Die  Familie  Selicke.  3^  Aiiflage  ;  Berlin, 
1892,  p.  vi.  :  '  In  fact,  nothing  so  provokes  us  to  smile  ...  as  when  they,  in 
their  anxiety  to  find  models,  laloel  us  as  plagiarists  of  the  great  foreign 
authors.  Let  them  say  it,  then.  ...  It  will  be  acknowledged  some  day 
that  there  has  never  yet  been  in  our  literature  a  movement  less  influenced 
from  without,  more  strongly  originated  from  within — in  one  word,  more 
national— \.\\2S\.  this  movement,  even  at  the  further  development  of  which  we 
look  to-day,  and  which  has  had  for  its  visible  point  of  departure  our  Papa 


REALISM  509 

a  little  more  of  art  and  poetry  than  is  learnt  in  a  Berlin 
tavern  frequented  by  realists,  or  in  a  low  newspaper  informed 
by  this  sort  of  company;  he  who  contemplates  in  its  entire 
range  the  contemporary  movement  of  thought  without  stop- 
ping on  the  frontiers  of  his  own  country,  can  have  no  doubt 
whatever  that  German  realism,  as  a  local  phenomenon,  may 
have  for  Germany  itself  a  melancholy  importance,  but  does 
not  exist  at  all  for  universal  literature,  because  all  trace  of 
personal  or  national  originality  is  lacking.  To  the  chorus 
in  which  the  voices  of  humanity  express  its  feelings  and 
thoughts,  not  the  faintest  new  note  has  been  added  by  it. 

Plagiarists  so  low  down  in  the  scale  as  the  German  realists 
are  not  in  the  least  entitled  to  a  detailed  individual  examination. 
To  do  this  would  be  to  make  one's  self  both  ridiculous  in  the 
eyes  of  competent  judges  and  of  a  piece  with  strolling  players, 
to  whom  it  is  a  matter  of  small  importance  whether  they 
are  praised  or  blamed,  provided  they  are  mentioned.  Other 
motives  also  warn  me  to  be  prudent  in  the  choice  of  examples 
I  propose  to  lay  before  the  reader.  I  am  firmly  convinced  that 
in  a  few  years  all  this  movement  will  be  forgotten  even  to  the 
name  itself.  The  lads  who  now  pretend  to  be  the  future  of 
German  literature  will  discover  little  by  little  that  the  business 
to  which  they  have  devoted  themselves  is  less  agreeable  and 
lucrative  than  they  had  imagined."^  Those  among  them  who 
yet  possess  a  last  remnant  of  health  and  strength  will  find  the 
way  to  their  natural  vocation,  and  become  restaurant-waiters 
or  servants,  night-watchmen  or  peddlers,  and  I  should  fear  to 
injure  their  advancement  in  these  honest  professions  if  I  nailed 
here  the  remembrance  of  their  aberration  of  past  days,  which 
would  otherwise  be  forgotten  by  all.  The  feebler  and  weaker 
among  them,  who  could  not  manfully  resolve  to  earn  their 
bread  by  a  decent  occupation,  will  disappear  probably  as 
drunkards,  vagabonds,  beggars,  perhaps  even  in  a  house  of 
correction,  and  if,  after  the  lapse  of  years,  a  serious  reader 
happened  to  come  across  their  names  in.  this  book,  he  would 
be  right  in  exclaiming,  '  What  sort  of  bad  joke  is  this  ?     What 

Hamlet.  Die  Familie  Selicke  is  the  most  thoroughly  German  piece  of  writing 
our  literature  possesses,' etc.  This  passage  may  serve  the  reader  as  a  model 
both  of  the  style  in  which  these  lads  write,  and  of  the  tone  in  which  they 
speak  of  themselves  and  their  productions. 

*  The  complaint  of  want  of  money  is  a  constant  refrain  among  the  'Young 
Germans.'  Listen  to  Baron  Detlev  von  Liliencron  :  'You  had  nothing  to 
eat  again  to-day;  as  a  set-off,  every  blackguard  has  had  his  fill.'  'The 
terror  of  infernal  damnation  is — A  garden  of  roses  under  the  kisses  of 
spring, — When  I  think  of  how  heart  and  soul  fret, — To  be  hourly  bitten  by 
the  need  of  money.'  And  Karl  Bleibtreu  :  'Brass  reigns,  gold  reigns, — 
Genius  goes  its  way  a-begging.'  'To  call  a  ton  of  gold  one's  own, — Sublime 
end,  unattainable  to  man  !'  etc. 


5IO  DEGENERATION 

does  the  author  want  to  make  me  beheve  ?  There  never 
have  been  such  men  !'  Finally,  an  absolutely  incapable 
pseudo-writer  is  individually  deprived  of  all  importance,  and 
only  acquires  it  as  one  of  a  number.  He  cannot  therefore 
be  treated  critically,  but  merely  statistically.  For  all  these 
reasons  I  shall  only  draw  from  the  whole  number  a  few  char- 
acters  and   works,    to    show   with   their  help   what    German 

*  realism  '  really  is. 

The  founder  of  the  realist  school  is  Karl  Bleibtreu.  He 
accomplished  this  work  of  foundation  by  publishing  a  brochure 
of  which  the  principal  feature  was  a  cover  of  brilliant  red 
furrowed  by  black  lightning  in  zigzags,  and  which  bore  this 
title  like  the  roll  of  a  kettle-drum.  Revolution  in  Literature.  In 
this  literary  '  tout '  Bleibtreu,  without  the  slightest  attempt  at 
substantiation,  but  with  a  brazen  brow,  depreciated  a  whole 
series  of  esteemed  and  successful  authors,  swore  with  great 
oaths  that  they  were  dead  and  buried,  and  announced  the 
dawn  of  a  new  literary  epoch,  which  already  counted  a 
certain  number  of  geniuses,  at  the  head  of  whom  he  him- 
self stood. 

As  an  author  Bleibtreu,  in  spite  of  the  many  and  various 
works  he  has  already  published,  does  not  yet  count  for  much. 
It  would,  however,  be  unjust  to  ignore  his  great  ability  as  a 
book-maker.  In  this  respect  Revolution  in  der  Liter atur  is  a 
model  production.  With  skilful  address,  he  mingled  authors 
of  repute  whom  he  hacked  into  sausage-meat  with  a  few 
shallow  scribblers  in  vogue,  whom  it  was  no  doubt  rather 
foolish  to  fight,  with  the  grand  airs  of  a  gladiator,  but  whom 
no  one  would  have  defended  against  a  smiling  disdain.  The 
presence  of  these  unwarranted  intruders  into  the  group  whom 
he  undertook  to  extirpate  from  literature,  may  give  to  his 
raising  of  the  standard  a  semblance  of  reason  in  the  eyes  of 
superficial  readers.  Not  less  cleverly  chosen  were  the  people 
whom  he  presented  to  readers  as  the  new  geniuses.  With  the 
exception  of  two  or  three  decent  mediocrities,  for  whom  there 
is  always  a  little  modest  corner  in  the  literature  of  a  great 
people,  these  were  complete  nullities  from  whom  he  himself 
never  had  to  fear  a  dangerous  competition.  The  greatest  of 
his  geniuses  is,  for  example,  Max  Kretzer,  a  man  who  writes, 
in    the    German    of    a    Cameroon -Negro,    some   professedly 

*  Berlin '  novels,  of  which  the  best  known,  Die  Verkommenen, 
is  '  Berlinish  '  to  such  a  degree  that  it  simply  dilutes  the  history 
of  the  widow  Gras  and  the  workman  Gaudry,  which  took  place 
in  Paris  in  1877.  This  event,  celebrated  as  the  first  adventure 
with  cocottes  in  which  vitriol  played  a  part,  could  only  happen 
in  Paris,  and  under  the  conditions  of  Parisian  life.  It  is 
specifically  Parisian.     But  Kretzer  calmly  removed  the  Paris 


REALISM  511 

trade-mark,  replacing  it  with  that  of  Berlin,  and  he  thus 
created  a  *  Berlin '  novel,  vaunted  by  Bleibtreu  as  the  ideal  of 
a  'genuine'  and  'true'  exposition.  He  reclothes  his  newly- 
discovered  *  geniuses,'  who  recall  Falstaff's  recruits,  Mouldy, 
Shadow,  Wart,  Feeble,  and  Bullcalf  {King Henry  IV.,  Part  II.), 
in  a  uniform  which  he  could  not  have  chosen  more  effectively. 
He  dressed  them  out  in  the  costume  of  Schiller's  brigands 
in  the  Bohemian  forests ;  he  pronounced  them  to  be  a  troop 
of  rebels,  fighters  at  barricades,  Liitzow  huntsmen  in  the 
struggle  for  freedom  against  hypocrisy  perukes,  and  pig-tails, 
and  all  obstructionists;  and  he  hoped  that  youth  and  the 
friends  of  progress  would  take  him  for  something  serious,  on 
seeing  him  march  at  the  head  of  his  poor,  infirm  cripples  and 
knockknees,  thus  disguised. 

His  plan,  although  excellently  contrived  and  conducted,  was 
only  partially  successful.  Scarcely  had  he  in  a  certain  measure 
organized  and  drilled  his  little  troop,  when  it  mutinied  and 
drove  him  away.  It  did  not  choose  another  captain,  for  each 
private  soldier  wished  himself  to  be  chief,  and  the  feeblest  and 
most  timid  of  the  band  alone  recognised  any  other  genius  outside 
his  own.  Bleibtreu  has  not  to  this  day  got  over  the  ingratitude 
of  the  people  who  had  taken  his  mystification  seriously,  and 
had  really  looked  upon  themselves  as  the  geniuses  he  had  pro- 
claimed them  to  be,  without,  as  he  thought,  running  any  risks; 
and  in  his  last  publication  he  still  utters  his  sorrow  in  these 
bitter  verses  {Aus  einem  lyrischen  Tagebuch)  : 

'  For  what  purpose  this  long  struggle  ?  'Tis  vain  !  And  my  hand  is 
paralyzed.  Long  live  falsehood,  stupidity,  folly !  Adieu,  thou  German 
piggery  1  The  earth  of  the  tomb  will  extinguish  the  conflagration.  I  have 
been,  as  long  as  I  could  think,  a  veritable  booby.  I  was  no  honest  German, 
I  was  a  wounded  swan.' 

Bleibtreu  could  not  give  any  talent  to  the  realists  invented 
by  him,  but  the  latter  borrowed  from  him  a  few  of  his  turns  of 
expression.  To  make  an  impression  on  the  ignorant,  they 
have  associated  with  themselves  as  honorary  members  some  re- 
spectable authors  whom  one  is  surprised  to  meet  with  dans  ce 
galere.  Thus  the  realists  include  among  their  numbers,  for 
example,  Theodore  Fontane,  a  true  poet,  whose  novels  honour- 
ably hold  their  place  among  the  best  productions  of  the  kind 
in  any  literature  of  Europe  ;  H.  Heiberg,  of  vigorous  although 
unequal  talent ;  unfortunately  compelled,  as  it  would  seem,  by 
external  circumstances  to  hasty  and  excessive  work,  against 
which,  perhaps,  his  artistic  conscience  vainly  protests;  and 
Detlev  von  Liliencron,  who  is  by  no  means  a  geniuSr  but 
a  good  lyric  poet  with  a  sense  of  style,  and  who  may  rank 
by  the  side  of  epigoni  such  as  a  Hans  Hopfen,  a  Hermann 
Lingg,    a    Martin    Greif.      Considering    the    high    level    that 


512  DEGENERATION 

German  lyric  poetry — the  first  in  the  world  even  in  the 
judgment  of  foreign  nations — has  occupied  uninterruptedly 
since  Goethe,  it  is  giving  a  German  poet  no  small  praise  if 
one  can  say  he  is  not  inferior  to  the  average  of  the  last  seventy 
years.  Liliencron,  however,  does  not  Surpass  it,  and  I  do 
not  see  how  he  can  be  fairly  placed  above  Rudolf  Baumbach, 
for  example,  whom  the  realists  affect  to  despise,  probably 
because  he  has  disdained  to  join  their  gang.  It  is  not  in- 
comprehensible that  a  Fontane  or  a  Heiberg  should  consent 
to  suffer  the  importunate  promiscuousness  of  the  realists.  The 
Church,  too,  admits  sometimes  to  serve  in  the  Mass  young 
rogues  from  the  street,  who  have  only  to  swing  the  censer. 
The  sole  thing  that  is  demanded  of  them  as  realists  honoris 
causa,  is  to  bear  silently  and  smilingly  this  compromise  of  an 
honourable  name.  Liliencron  alone  thinks  himself  obliged 
to  make  some  concessions  to  his  new  companions,  in  using 
here  and  there  in  his  last  poems,  not  his  own  language,  but 
theirs. 

Besides  the  smuggling  in  of  some  esteemed  names  among 
theirs,  the  realists  have  carefully  practised  and  cultivated 
another  business-trick  of  Bleibtreu's — that  of  effective  disguise. 
They  assumed  (in  the  collection  of  lyric  poetry  entitled  Young 
Germany,  Friedenau  and  Leipzig,  1886)  the  name  of  '  Young 
Germany/  which  calls  up  a  faint  remembrance  of  the  great 
and  bold  innovators  of  1830,  as  well  as  ideas  of  blooming 
youth  and  spring,  with  a  false  nose  of  modernism  tied  on. 
But  let  us  here  at  once  remark  that  the  realists,  plagiarists 
to  the  backbone,  do  not  even  possess  sufficient  independence 
to  find  a  name  peculiarly  their  own,  but  have  quietly  plagiarized 
the  denomination  under  which  the  Heine-Boerne-Gutzkow 
group  has  become  renowned. 

As  the  first  specimen  of  *  realist '  literature  of  '  Young 
Germany,'  I  will  quote  the  novel  by  Heinz  Tovote,  Im 
Liehesrausch.*  He  relates  the  history  of  a  landed  proprietor 
and  former  officer,  Herbert  von  Diiren,  who  makes  the  ac- 
quaintance of  a  certain  Lucy,  formerly  a  waitress  at  an  inn, 
and  the  mistress  of  quite  a  number  of  young  men  in  succession. 
He  makes  her  his  mistress,  and  indulges  in  his  passion  until, 
being  unable  to  live  without  her,  he  induces  her  to  marry 
him.  Herbert,  who  is  only  partially  acquainted  with  Lucy's 
past,  presents  her  to  his  mother.  The  latter,  who  very  soon 
perceives  the  relations  existing  between  her  son  and  this 
person,  nevertheless  gives  her  consent,  and  the  marriage 
takes  place.  In  the  aristocratic  and  military  society  of  Berlin, 
in  which  the  couple  move  for  a  time,  Lucy's  antecedents  soon 

*  Heinz  Tovote,  Ln  Liebesrausch,  Berliner  Roman,  6e  Auflage.  Berlin, 
i8q^ 


REALISM 


51.3 


become  known,  and  she  is  '  cut '  by  all  the  world.  Herbert 
himself  remains  faithfully  attached  to  her,  until  he  discovers  one 
day  by  accident,  at  the  house  of  one  of  his  friends — of  course  a 
*  realist  '  painter — a  picture  representing  the  nude  figure  of  Lucy 
bathing  in  the  sea  !  He  very  logically  concludes  that  his  wife 
had  posed  as  a  model  to  the  painter,  and  he  drives  her  away.  As 
a  matter  of  fact,  however,  the  '  realist '  had  painted  the  nude 
figure  from  imagination,  and  involuntarily  given  it  Lucy's 
features,  because  of  the  respectful  admiration  he  secretly 
cherishes  for  her.  (Judge  for  a  moment  how  that  could  be 
if  she  had  been  disreputable  !)  Then  Herbert,  smitten  with 
remorse,  seeks  the  vanished  Lucy,  whom  he  discovers,  after 
heart-breaking  efforts,  in  his  own  house,  where  she  has  lived 
for  months  unknown  to  him.  The  reconciliation  of  husband 
and  wife  takes  place  amid  general  pathos,  and  the  young  wife 
dies  in  giving  birth  to  a  child,  and  uttering  affecting  senti- 
ments. 

I  will  not  waste  time  by  pointing  out  the  silliness  of  this 
story.  The  essential  part  in  a  novel,  moreover,  is  not  the 
plot,  but  the  form,  in  both  the  narrower  and  the  broader  sense 
— language,  style,  composition — and  these  I  will  examine  a 
little  later. 

The  very  first  thing  we  have  a  right  to  expect  of  a  man 
who  assumes  to  write  for  the  public,  i.e.,  for  the  educated 
people  of  his  own  nation,  is  evidently  that  he  should  be 
master  of  his  own  language.  Now,  Hein2  Tovote  has  no 
idea  whatever  of  German.  He  commits  the  grossest  errors 
every  moment — solecisms,  mistakes  of  syntax,  ignorance  of 
the  value  of  words — which  make  one's  hair  stand  on  end.  Some 
few  of  these  abominable  faults  of  language  are  tolerably  wide- 
spread, others  belong  to  the  jargon  of  the  roughest  class  of 
the  people  ;  but  there  are  some  that  Tovote  could  never  have 
heard.  They  are  the  result  of  his  personal  ignorance  of  German 
grammar. 

Next  as  to  his  style.  When  Tovote  writes  a  description,  in 
order  to  determine  and  strengthen  the  substantive,  he  chooses, 
on  principle,  the  adjective  naturally  contained  in  that  substantive. 
Here  are  some  examples  of  this  intolerable  tautology  :  '  An 
icy  January  storm.'  '  In  the  Friedrichstrasse  light  elegant 
equipages  were  crowded.'  '  Incarnation  of  the  most  lovable 
grace.'  'A  slowly  creeping  fever.  'A  lazy  somnolence.' 
'  They  glowed  fiery  in  the  last  light.'  *  She  suffered  cruel 
torments,'  etc.  I  doubt  if  any  author,  having  but  little  respect 
for  himself,  his  vocation,  his  maternal  tongue  or  his  readers, 
would  put  such  words  together.  There  is  no  necessity,  in 
hunting  for  the  '  rare  and  precious  epithet,'  to  go  so  far  as 
the    French    stylists,   but   such    a   sweeping   together   of  the 

33 


514 


DEGENERATION 


Stalest,  most  useless,  and  most  inexpressive  adjectives_  is  not 
literature ;  it  is  properly,  to  echo  the  French  critic,  the 
work  of  scavengers.  Another  characteristic  of  this  style  is 
its  silliness.  The  author  relates  that  Herbert  von  Diiren  was 
'  keenly  interested,  from  its  first  appearance,'  in  Sullivan's 
operetta  The  Mikado.  '  Now  that  it  had  cast  off  its  English 
garb,  it  seemed  to  him  still  more  indigenous.'  Thus  he 
seriously  declares  that  an  English  operetta  has  seemed  to  a 
German  more  indigenous  in  the  German  language  than  in 
English.  'Suddenly  he  was  seized  with  a  senseless  fury 
against  this  man  who  saluted  him  so  politely,  whereby  he, 
who  was  habitually  politeness  itself  to  everyone,  did  not  return 
the  salute,  and  turned  away.'  Not  to  respond  to  a  salute  by 
way  of  expressing  his  '  senseless  fury  '  is  truly  not  very  ferocious 
on  the  part  of  an  old  officer.  '  The  horses  were  hanging  their 
heads  sadly,  and  sleeping.'  That  it  is  possible  to  sleep  sadly 
or  gaily  is  a  discovery  by  Tovote.  '  Like  walls,  the  colossi 
of  houses  stood  crowding  against  each  other.'  Like  walls  ? 
One  would  think  that  houses  really  have  walls.  It  is  exactly 
as  if  Tovote  had  said  :  '  Like  men,  the  people  stood  crowding 
against  each  other.' 

When  Tovote  strives  to  write  in  a  sublime  and  beautiful 
style,  the  result  we  get  is  as  follows :  '  Yet  there  lay  in  the 
slender  perfectly  levelled  lines  a  slumbering  strength,'  (What 
can  the  lines  be  which  are  '  slender,'  i.e.,  not  thick  and 
'perfectly  levelled'?)  'She  was  already  smiling  through  her 
tears,  and  her  face  resembled  a  summer  landscape  which, 
while  the  rain  still  falls  on  the  corn,  is  bathed  again  in  the 
bright  rays  of  the  sun  emerging  from  clouds.'  Thus,  what  we 
are  first  to  think  of  when  contemplating  a  face  is  a  summer 
landscape.  '  He  felt  how  her  lips  clung  \_sich  klammerten  /]  to 
his.'  '  It  must  be  granted  that,  considering  his  youth,  he  has 
the  incontestable  genius  of  a  lively  conception,'  etc. 

Tovote  seeks  to  plagiarize  the  diffuse  descriptions  of  the 
French  naturalists,  and  unfolds  pictures  the  novelty,  clearness, 
and  vigour  of  which  the  following  quotations  will  enable  us 
to  admire.  (End  of  a  theatrical  representation  :)  '  In  the 
stalls  the  seats  clapped  back  with  a  muffled  sound.  .  .  .  The 
audience  rose,  doors  were  opened,  curtains  were  drawn  back, 
and  the  theatre  emptied  slowly,  while  a  few  isolated  spectators 
alone  remained  in  their  places.'  '  Unceasingly,  the  whole 
night  the  snowflakes  fell.  In  thick  bales  [!]  it  lay  on  the  bare 
branches  of  the  trees,  which  threatened  to  break  down  in 
winterly  weakness.  The  pines  and  low  bushes  were  enveloped 
in  a  thick  mantle  of  snow.  To  the  straw,  wound  round  the 
standard  roses,  the  snow  clung,  and  formed  strange  figures; 
it  lay  a  foot  high  on  the  walls,  and  dehcately  veiled  the  points 


REALISM  515 

of  the  iron  railings.  All  tracks  were  effaced.  The  wind, 
which  drove  the  flakes  before  it,  threw  them  into  all  the 
hollows,  so  that  all  the  corners  and  all  the  unevennesses  dis- 
appeared.' *  They  stood  high  above  the  sea,  which  spread 
around  them  like  an  infinite  plain.'  'The  sun  had  set,  .  .  . 
The  clouds,  heavily  encamped  on  the  horizon,  still  glowed 
with  flaming  crimson  purple  ;  then  they  passed  into  violet, 
which  changed  into  a  colourless  gray  [so  there  is  a  coloured 
gray  also  ?]  until  night  descended,  and  all  colours  gradually 
died  out.'  (Compare  this  pitiable  attempt  to  counterfeit  '  im- 
pressionism '  with  the  French  models  quoted  in  the  preceding 
chapter.)  '  The  night  had  completely  closed  in — a  dark,  pro- 
foundly black  night.'  (Consider  the  juxtaposition  of  these 
two  adjectives.)  '  The  moon  alone  hung  mournfully  above  the 
waters  [the  moon  in  a  night  both  '  dark '  and  '  profoundly 
black  !'],  and  the  lighthouse  threw  its  flood  of  light  into  the 
distance.  Deep  at  their  feet  the  sea  raved  with  muffled  roar 
in  the  spite  of  a  thousand  years  [!],  and  licked  the  creviced 
rocks.'  A  '  raving  spite  '  which  '  licks  '  does  not  appear  to  be 
a  very  dangerous  spite.  '  She  retained  the  deep  wound  over 
her  eye  as  a  little  scar  all  her  life  long.'  If  she  had  a  '  little 
scar,'  she  did  not  therefore  keep  a  deep  wound  '  all  her  life 
long.'  '  Above  them,  in  the  blue  sky,  a  vulture  wheeled  in 
circles  with  outspread  wings,  lost  like  a  black  point  in  this 
sea  of  light.'  In  a  vulture  which  is  only  seen  as  '  a  black 
point,'  it  is  not  possible  to  distinguish  the  '  outspread  wings.' 
Here  is  the  description  of  a  face :  '  Two  full  fresh  lips, 
chaste  [!],  bright  red,  a  graceful  little  nose,  imperceptibly 
tilted,  but  parting  in  a  narrow  straight  line  from  the  forehead.' 
We  will  leave  the  reader  the  trouble  of  imagining  for  himself 
this  '  little  nose  imperceptibly  tilted  '  in  *  the  narrow  straight 
line.'  '  The  engine  of  the  express  train  panted  across  the 
level  plain  which  stretched  all  round  like  a  burning  desert. 
Right  and  left,  field  after  field  of  corn,  fruitful  orchards  and 
verdant  meadows.'  Fields,  orchards,  meadows,  and  yet  a 
*  burning  [?]  desert '  ?  '  The  half-closed  eyes,  with  their  white 
membranes,  look  at  him  so  steadily.'  This  does  not  mean, 
as  one  might  suppose,  the  eyes  of  a  bird,  but  those  of  a  human 
being,  in  which  our  novelist  professes  to  have  discovered  these 
incomprehensible  '  white  membranes.' 

We  have  seen  what  impressionism  and  the  descriptive  tic 
of  naturalism  have  become  in  the  hands  of  Tovote.  I  will 
now  show  how  this  '  realist '  can  observe  and  reproduce  reality 
in  the  smallest  as  in  the  greatest  things.  Herbert,  the  first 
evening  of  his  acquaintance  with  Lucy,  takes  her  to  a 
restaurant  and  orders,  among  other  things,  a  bottle  of 
burgundy.      *  The  waiter  placed  the  pot-bellied  bottle  on  the 


5i6  DEGENERATION 

table,  in  a  flourishing  curve.'  Burgundy  in  *  pot-bellied ' 
bottles!  They  eat  soup,  served  in  'silver  bowls'  (!),  green 
peas  and  a  capon,  the  excellence  of  which  forms  the  subject 
of  their  incredible  conversation  at  table,  and  when  this  repast 
is  disposed  of,  and  Lucy  has  lighted  a  cigarette,  she  asks  for 
oysters,  which  are  brought  and  eaten  by  her  '  served  according 
to  the  rules  of  art.'  I  should  certainly  not  reproach  anyone 
for  not  knowing  a  bottle  of  burgundy  by  sight,  nor  at  which 
stage  of  a  repast  one  eats  oj'sters.  I  myself  did  not  grow  up 
amongst  oysters  and  burgundy,  but  it  would  be  more  honest 
not  to  speak  of  these  good  things  till  one  knows  something  of 
them.  Let  us  give  a  passing  notice  to  the  unconscious  respect, 
mingled  with  envy,  for  the  difficult  and  distinguished  occupa- 
tion of  eating  oysters,  deliciously  revealed  in  this  admiring 
declaration,  that  Lucy  has  oysters  *  served '  (?)  '  according  to 
the  rules  of  art,'  and  the  backwoodsman's  ignorance  of  the 
most  elementary  good  breeding  which  Tovote  betrays  in 
making  a  man  of  the  world  talk  incessantly  at  table  about  the 
food.  To  continue.  Lucy's  lover  has  travelled,  via  Brussels, 
'  from  Havre  to  Egypt.'  In  that  case  he  must  have  chartered 
a  steamer  on  his  own  account,  as  there  is  no  regular  line  of 
steamers  between  Havre  and  Egypt.  For  some  months 
Herbert  has  had  on  his  writing-table  some  unfinished  manu- 
scripts. '  He  rummaged  through  this  heap  of  yellow  manu- 
scripts.' Under  shelter  the  worst  ligneous  fibre  paper  itself 
would  certainly  not  turn  yellow  in  the  space  of  a  few  months 
The  bed-chamber,  arranged  with  all  possible  care  by  Herbert 
for  his  Lucy,  has  '  blue  silk  curtains,'  and  '  pale  pink  satm ' 
seats.  Such  a  wild  combination  of  colours  would  be  avoided 
by  the  better  secondhand  dealers  even  in  their  shop  windows. 

I  grant  that  all  these  blunders,  although  amusing,  are  insig- 
nificant. They  must  not  be  passed  over,  however,  when  com- 
mitted by  a  '  realist,'  who  boasts  of  '  observation '  and  '  truth.' 
Graver  still  are  the  impossible  actions  and  characters  of  the 
men.  In  a  moment  of  grief  Lucy  lets  '  fall  her  arms  on  the 
table-napkin  in  her  lap,  and  looks  vacantly  before  her,  biting 
her  under  lip.'  Has  anyone  ever  seen  or  done  such  a  thing 
in  this  state  of  mind  ?  Wild  ecstasy  of  love  Lucy  expresses 
thus  :  '  "  Kiss  me,"  she  implored,  and  her  whole  being  seemed 
to  wish  to  lose  itself  in  him — "kiss  me!"'  Herbert  had 
made  her  acquaintance  in  Heligoland,  where  she  lived  with 
an  Englishman  named  Ward,  and  had  taken  her  to  be  Ward's 
betrothed.  A  German  officer  of  good  family,  being  con- 
siderably over  thirty,  was  actually  able  to  look  upon  a  woman 
living  with  a  rich  young  foreigner  alone  at  a  watering-place  as 
his  betrothed  !  The  latter,  an  absolutely  neglected  child  of 
the  working  class,   learnt  English  with  Ward  in  less  than  a 


REALISM  517 

year  so  perfectly  that  she  was  everywhere  mistaken  for  an 
Englishwoman,  and  played  the  piano  so  well  that  she  could 
execute  pieces  from  operettas,  etc. 

I  do  not  consider  it  a  crime  when  Tovote,  in  using  French 
words,  confounds  tourniquet  with  nioulinet,  and  speaks  of 
cabinets  separes  instead  of  cabinets  particuliers.  A  German 
does  not  require  to  know  French.  It  would  be  a  good  thing 
indeed  if  he  knew  German.  Good  taste,  however,  would  pre- 
vent his  making  a  display  of  scraps  of  a  language  of  which  he 
knows  absolutely  nothing. 

The  obscenities  with  which  the  novel  swarms  are  incom- 
parably weaker  than  in  analogous  passages  by  Zola,  but  they 
are  peculiarly  repulsive  because,  in  spite  of  the  absolute  inca- 
pacity of  Tovote  to  rise  above  the  coarseness  of  commercial 
travellers  relating  their  love  adventures  in  hotels,  they,  never- 
theless, betray  his  determination  to  be  violently  sensational 
and  subtly  sensual. 

If  I  have  lingered  thus  long  over  this  bungling  piece  of  work, 
so  far  below  the  level  of  literature,  it  is  because  of  its  being 
thoroughly  typical  of  German  realism.  The  language  trans- 
gresses the  simplest  rules  of  grammar.  Not  one  expression  is 
accurately  chosen,  and  really  characterizes  the  object  or  the 
concept  that  is  brought  before  the  reader.  That  an  author 
should  speak  not  only  accurately,  but  expressively,  that  he 
should  be  able  to  reproduce  impressions  and  ideas  in  an 
original  and  powerful  way,  that  he  must  have  a  feeling  for  the 
value  and  delicate  sense  of  words  ;  of  this  Tovote  has  not 
the  slightest  idea.  His  descriptions  are  shabby  enough  to 
raise  a  blush  on  the  cheek  of  the  police  reporter  of  a  low  class 
paper.  Nothing  is  seen,  nothing  is  felt;  the  whole  is  but  a 
droning  echo  of  reading  of  the  worst  sort.  '  Modernism ' 
consists  finally  in  this,  that  a  pitiable  commonplace  is  partly 
located  in  Berlin,  with  here  and  there  vague  talk  of  socialism 
and  realism.  German  criticism  in  the  seventies  demanded, 
very  justly,  that  the  German  novel  should  rest  on  a  solid  basis, 
that  it  should  be  worked  out  in  some  well-known  period,  amid 
real  surroundings,  in  the  German  capital  of  our  day.  This 
demand  has  produced  the  *  Berlinese  '  novel  of  the  plagiarists. 
The  especial  and  characteristic  Berlinism  of  this  novel  consists 
in  this,  that  the  author  whenever  he  has  to  mention  a  street, 
displays  the  boundless  astonishment  of  a  Hottentot  at  the 
'  Panoptikum '  (the  Grevin  Museum  in  Berlin),  because  he 
finds  the  street  full  of  people,  carriages,  and  shops,  and  seeks 
opportunities  to  quote  the  names  of  the  streets  in  this  capital. 
This  method  is  within  the  reach  of  every  hotel  porter. 
In  order  to  introduce  such  Berlinism  into  a  bad  novel,  the 
author  need  only  possess  a  plan  of  the  town,  and   perhaps  a 


5i8  DEGENERATION 

guide-book.  The  peculiarities  of  life  in  the  capital  are  repre- 
sented by  passages  such  as  this  :  *  On  both  sides  of  the  pave- 
ment [he  meant  to  say,  on  the  pavement  on  both  sides  of  the 
street]  a  dense  crowd  of  people  surged,  and  in  the  middle  of 
the  avenue,  under  the  trees,  just  bursting  into  leaf,  a  scattered 
'  multitude,  resembling  the  irregular  [?J  waves  of  a  flood, 
pushed  on  to  get  out  of  the  town.'  Or :  '  On  all  the  pave- 
ments people  walking  and  pushing  against  each  other  in  con- 
fusion and  haste,  which  increased  to  a  run,  in  order  to  avoid 
falling  under  the  wheels,  while  escaping  to  a  place  of  refuge 
from  the  deafening  clatter  of  cabs,  tramways,  and  large  heavy 
omnibuses,  with  their  roofs  fully  occupied,'  etc.  Thus,  the 
only  thing  Tovote  sees  in  Berlin  is  what  a  peasant  from 
Buxtehude  would  remark,  who  has  left  his  village  for  the  first 
time,  and  cannot  recover  from  his  astonishment  in  finding 
more  people  and  carriages  than  in  his  own  village  street.  This 
is  just  the  view  which  a  resident  in  a  town  no  longer  notices, 
and  which  need  not  be  specially  described,  because  it  is  implied 
in  the  concept  of  a  'town,'  and,  above  all,  of  a  'large  town,' 
and  is,  notably,  in  no  way  characteristic  of  Berlin,  since 
Breslau,  Hamburg,  Cologne,  etc.,  present  exactly  the  same 
sight. 

Sociahsm  enters  into  the  '  modern  '  novel  like  Pilate  into  the 
Creed.  Tovote  relates,  e.g.,  how  Herbert  seeks  for  Lucy,  who 
has  disappeared  ;  he  arrives  at  last  at  the  workman's  quarter 
in  Berlin,  which  supphes  the  author  with  this  fine  picture  : 
*  Everywhere  the  blue  and  gray-red  blouse  of  the  workman, 
which  is  never  seen  Unter  den  Linden,  who  stands,  day  after 
day,  near  the  panting  machine,  at  the  work-table,  where  he 
carries  on,  during  long  years,  as  if  asleep,  the  same  manual 
labours,  until  the  callosities  on  his  hands  become  as  hard  as 
iron.'  Either  Herbert,  despairingly  seeking  his  mistress,  or  the 
narrator,  wishing  to  awaken  our  interest  in  these  events,  has 
thought  of  the  callosities  of  the  workmen! 

The  automata  who  in  the  '  realist '  novel  execute  mock- 
movements,  and  between  whom  the  dullest  and  most  miserable 
back-stair  sentimentality  is  played  off,  are  always  the  same  :  a 
gentleman,  an  ex-officer  whenever  possible,  who,  we  are 
assured,  is  engaged  upon  'works  on  socialism'  (of  what  kind 
we  never  learn,  it  is  simply  asserted  that  they  are  '  very  im- 
portant ')  ;  a  waitress  at  an  inn,  as  the  embodiment  of  the  ewig- 
Weibliche;  and  a  realist  painter  who  plans  or  executes  pictures 
destined  to  regenerate  humanity,  and  to  establish  the  mil- 
lennium on  earth.  Here  is  the  recipe  for  the  '  modernism  '  of 
the  '  Young-German  *  realism :  quotation  of  the  names  of  the 
Berlin  streets,  rapture  at  the  sight  of  some  cabs  and  omnibuses, 
a  little  Berlinese  dialect  in  the  mouth  of  the  characters,  coarse 


REALISM  519 

and  stupid  eroticism,  unctuous  allusions  to  socialism  and 
phrases  on  painting,  such  as  a  goose-fattener  grown  rich  might 
make  if  she  wished  to  pass  herself  off  as  a  lady.  Of  the 
three  persons  who  are  always  the  supporters  of  this  '  modernity ' 
the  waitress  is  the  only  really  original  one.  The  merit  of  this 
treasure  belongs  to  Bleibtreu,  who  first  presented  her  to  the 
admiration  and  imitation  of  his  little  band  in  his  collection  of 
novels  entitled  Schlechte  Gesellschaft.  She  is  a  conglomeration 
of  all  the  fabulous  beings  that  have  hitherto  been  imagined  in 
poetry :  a  winged  chimera,  a  sphinx  with  lion's  claws,  and  a 
siren  with  a  fish's  tail,  all  at  one  and  the  same  time.  She 
contains  in  herself  every  charm  and  every  gift,  love  and 
wisdom,  virtue  and  love-glowing  paganism.  It  is  by  the 
waitress  at  the  inn  that  the  talent  for  observation  and  creative 
power  of  the  German  '  realist '  can  be  most  accurately  gauged. 

If  Tovote  is  a  representative  type — by  no  means  diseased, 
but  merely  incapable  beyond  conception — of  intruders  into 
literature  with  which  they  will  at  most  be  connected  as 
peddling  hawkers  of  trashy  novels,  we  meet  in  Hermann  Bahr 
with  a  clearly  pathological  individuality.  Bahr  is  an  advanced 
hysteric  who  wants  at  all  hazards  to  get  himself  talked  about,  and 
has  had  the  unfortunate  idea  of  achieving  this  result  by  books. 
Devoid  of  talent  to  an  almost  impossible  degree,  he  seeks  to 
captivate  attention  by  the  maddest  eccentricities.  Thus,  he 
calls  the  book  most  characteristic  of  his  method  among 
those  he  has  hitherto  published.  Die  gutc  S chide  ;  Seelenstdnde* 
Seelenstdnde  literally  means  '  states  of  soul.'  He  had  read 
and  not  understood  the  term  Stats  d'dme  in  the  new  French 
authors,  etat  having  been  used  in  the  political  sense  which  it 
has  in  tiers- Stats. 

In  the  story  related  in  the  Seelenstdnde,  a  part  at  least  of 
the  recipe  previously  mentioned  is  utilized.  The  hero  is  an 
Austrian  painter  living  in  Paris.  One  day,  weary  of  living 
alone,  he  picks  up  a  girl  in  the  street,  who,  contrary  to  the 
orthodox  procedure,  is  not  a  waitress, .  but  a  dressmaker, 
possessing,  nevertheless,  all  the  mythical  excellence  of  the 
*  Young  German  '  barmaid ;  he  lives  with  her  for  a  time,  then 
wearies  of  her,  and  torments  her  to  such  a  degree  that  she 
leaves  him  one  fine  day  and  goes  off  with  a  rich  negro,  whom 
she  induces  to  buy  pictures  at  a  high  price  from  her  abandoned 
lover. 

This  fine  story  is  the  frame  in  which  Bahr  reveals  the  *  state  ' 
of  his  hero's  '  soul.'  This  author  is  a  plagiarist  of  an  inveterate 
type,  such  as  is  only  met  with  in  serious  cases  of  hysteria. 
Not  a  singlo  author  of  any  individuality  who  has  passed  before 
his  eyes  has  been  able  to  escape  his  rage  for  servile  imitation. 
♦  Hermann  Bahr,  Die  giite  Schiile j  Seelenstdnde.     Berlin,  1890. 


520  DEGENERATION 

The  principle  of  the  *  Good  School ' — the  misery  of  a  painter 
who  struggles  with  the  conception  of  a  work  of  art  intended  to 
express  his  whole  soul,  and  who  recognises  with  despair  his 
impotence  to  realize  it — is  subtilized  from  Zola's  L'Qluvre, 
All  the  details,  as  we  shall  see,  he  has  taken  from  Nietzsche, 
Stirner,  Ibsen,  the  Diabolics,  Decadents,  and  French  Impres- 
sionists. But  all  he  plagiarizes  becomes,  under  his  pen,  a 
parody  of  inimitably  exquisite  absurdity. 

The  painter's  distress  of  mind  is  '  the  lyrism  of  red.  His 
whole  soul  was  steeped  in  red,  all  his  feelings,  all  his  aims,  all 
his  desires,  in  sonnets  of  lament  and  hope ;  and  in  general  a 
complete  biography  of  red,  what  took  place  in  him  and  usually 
whatever  could  happen  to  him.  .  .  .  But  this  lofty  canticle 
of  the  red  fulfilled  itself  in  the  real,  simple  tones  of  daily 
life.  ...  It  was  a  large  well-boiled  lobster,  in  which  he  em- 
bodied the  masterful  spirit  and  the  violence  of  the  red,  his 
languor  in  a  salmon  on  one  side,  and  his  mischievousness  and 
gaiety  of  disposition  in  many  radishes  in  cheerful  variations. 
But  the  great  and  supreme  confession  of  his  whole  soul  hung 
on  a  purple  tablecloth  with  heavy  folds,  on  which  the  sun 
shone,  a  narrow  shaft,  but  with  all  the  more  fiery  glow.'  If 
the  struggle  with  the  '  biography  of  the  red  '  was  a  torture  to 
him,  even  worse  things  were  about  to  happen.  One  day  '  the 
curse  struck  him  behind,  coming  from  an  excellent  salmon, 
juicy  and  sweet,  which  one  would  never  have  suspected  of 
perfidy  as  it  lay  cradling  itself  in  a  rosy  shimmer  in  its  rich 
herb  sauce.'  (A  cooked  salmon  cradling  itself!  This  must 
have  produced  a  ghostly  effect.  And  this  uncanny  salmon 
struck  him  '  behind,'  although  it  was  on  the  table  before  him  !) 
But  it  was  precisely  this  sauce,  this  sauce  of  green  herbs,  the 
pride  of  the  cook — yes,  it  was  this  that  did  it.  It  was  this  that 
conquered  him.  He  had  never  seen  anything  like  it — never 
before,  as  far  back  as  he  could  remember,  a  softer  and  sweeter 
green,  at  once  so  languishing  and  so  joyous  that  one  could 
have  sung  and  shouted  for  joy.  The  whole  rococo  was  in  it, 
only  in  a  much  more  gracious,  yearning  note.  It  had  to  go 
into  his  picture.  But  he  could  never  hit  off  that  green  sauce, 
and  this  was  the  tragedy  of  his  life.  He  '  kept  the  truth  locked 
up  cowardly  and  idle,  he  who  alone  could  grant  it  ;  he  did  not 
give  it  to  them  to  assuage  thirst,  this  healing  and  redeeming 
work  of  his  breast,'  namely,  the  green  sauce  !  '  He  would  have 
liked  to  make  a  gigantic  gimlet  revolve  in  his  flesh  with  a 
burning  screw  .  .  .  deep,  very  deep,  till  there  was  a  great 
hole  ...  an  immense  triumphal  gate  of  his  art,  through  which 
the  internals  could  spit  it  out' 

What  makes  this  struggle  with  the  green  sauce,  for  the 
purpose  of  overcoming  it  in  a  'healing  and  redeeming'  work 


REALISM  521 

of  art,  so  irresistibly  comic  is  that  the  whole  passage  is 
written  in  an  entirely  serious  view,  and  without  the  least  idea 
of  joking! 

Bahr  describes  his  own  style  in  these  words :  '  A  wild, 
feverish,  tropical^  style,  which  calls  nothing  by  its  usual  name 
in  the  ordinary  idiom,  but  which  racks  itself  in  the  hope  of 
finding  unheard-of,  obscure,  and  strange  neologisms,  in  a 
forced  and  singular  combination.' 

The  painter's  mistress  must  have  been  a  superb  creature,  to 
judge  by  the  description.  When  a  stranger  spoke  to  her  in 
the  street  *  she  slightly  quickened  her  steps,  and  with  eyelids 
haughtily  raised,  and  her  little  head  thrown  back  sideways, 
she  began  to  hum  softly,  sharply  snapping  her  fingers  with 
impatience,  in  such  a  way  as  to  rouse  his  desire  to  persevere 
in  his  useless  suit.'  This  behaviour  induces  Bahr  to  call  her 
a  '  majestically  inaccessible  young  lady.'  But  she  is  far  more 
remarkable  at  her  morning  toilet  at  home  than  she  is  in  the 
street.  *  Often,  when  under  the  greetings  of  the  morning, 
which  enamelled  with  gold  [!]  her  hyacinthine  flesh,  she 
plaited  her  hair  while  standing  before  her  mirror,  surrounded 
by  his  desires,  and  stretched,  moistened,  and  slowly  curved, 
with  twitching  fingers  which  glittered  like  swift  serpents,  quite 
gently  and  persistently,  her  tangled  [!]  eyelashes,  her  dis- 
hevelled eyebrows,  while  her  lips  grew  round  with  silent 
whistling,  between  which  the  rapid,  restless  tongue  hissed, 
shot  out,  and  clacked,  and  then,  with  closed  eyelids,  leant 
forward  as  in  submissive  adoration,  the  powder-puff  passed 
slowly,  cautiously,  fervently,  over  the  bent  cheeks,  while  the 
little  nose,  fearful  of  the  dust,  turned  aside,'  the  painter,  as 
may  be  imagined,  became  so  amorous  that  '  he  licked  the 
soap  from  her  fingers  to  refresh  his  fevered  gums.'  '  Suddenly 
standing  upright  on  one  leg,  with  a  swing  of  the  other  she 
kicked  her  shoe  into  the  air,  to  catch  it  again  by  a  nimble, 
firm  movement.  In  this  graceful  attitude  she  remained.' 
*  Sometimes  she  bent  down  languorously  towards  herself,  very 
gently,  very  slowly,  remaining  voluptuously  in  the  curve  of  her 
breasts,  deep  into  her  knees,  while  her  lips  moved  ;  sometimes, 
while  her  hips  turned  in  a  circle,  her  neck  glided  lasciviously 
into  swan-like  [!]  curves  towards  her  obsequious  image.'  This 
sight  filled  her  lover  with  such  enthusiasm  that  it  seemed  to 
him  '  as  if  from  a  thousand  springs  blasted  [!]  torrents  blazed 
through  his  veins.' 

It  is  not  necessary,  I  think,  to  multiply  specimens  of  this 
style,  which  simulates  insanity,  and  which  is  not  German,  either 
in  formation,  use  of  terms,  or  construction.  I  wish  merely 
to  show  to  what  degree  Bahr  is  a  plagiarist.  Here  we  see  a  copy 
of  Nietzsche:  'Always  the  same.     He  ought  to  do  this,  and 


522  DEGENERATION 

not  to  do  that ;  the  same  litany  from  his  first  infancy — always 
and  only ;  he  should  and  he  shouldn't.     What  he  would  was 
the   only  thing   never   demanded  of  him ;   and  thus,  in  this 
frightful   servitude,  he  felt  himself  possessed  by  an  immense 
desire  to  be  for  once  himself  at  last,  and  an  immense  anguish 
at  being  always  someone  else  eternally.'     '  To  say  that  everyone 
only  came  out  of  himself  to  penetrate  into  another  ...  to 
dominate  him !     That  a  man  could   never,   should  never,  be 
himself,  not  have  one  hour  of  bliss,  but  everlastingly  renounce, 
transform,  annihilate  himself  for  another's  gratification.  .  .  . 
Alone — alone  ;    why  would  they  not  leave  one  alone  ?'  .  .  . 
*  To  make  a  desert  for  himself — a  still  silent  desert'     '  Others 
had  not  this  sentiment  of  the  "  I  "  to  such  an  exuberant  and 
immeasurable  extent.'     *  The  joyous  hatred  of  men  and  the 
world.'     Here  we  have    Ibsen:  'He  wished  to   go   into   the 
country  —  he    himself,   precisely   as   proposed   by   the    other, 
certainly.     But  he  wished  to  go  into  the  country  in  virtue  of 
his  free  resolve,  because  it  was  his  will,  and  not  the  proposal 
of  another.  .  .  .  And  rather  than  bend  to  another's  will  he 
renounced  his  own.     Moreover,  since  another  wished  it,  the 
pleasure  of  wishing  it  himself  was  lost  to  him.'     Here  the 
De   Goncourts  :  '  There  was  around  her  out  of  the  sorrowful 
violet  and  bright  gold  a   misty  shimmer.'     '  His  feeling  was 
always  something  inconceivable,  and  also  on  a  3'ellow  ground 
• — dirty  yellow — gasping,   ecstatic,  faint,  pining  away  with  a 
death-rattle,   and  with  violet  tones,  but  very  soft.'     '  It  was 
chaste  voluptuousness.     He   had  it  there  in   his  brain,  pearly 
gray,  melting  into  faint  violet.'     Villiers  de  I'lsle-Adam  :  '  He 
was  bound  to  establish  the  new  love.  .  .  .  The  question  was 
of  doing  it  in  the  style  of  electricity  and  steam.     An  Edison- 
love  .  .  .  yes,  a  machine-like  love.'     A  mixture  of  Baudelaire 
and  Huysmans  :  '  In  the  undulating  silver  dust  of  the  light  a 
lovely  quivering  sheen,  woven  of  blue-black  and    pale  green 
vapour,  bathed  her  rosy  flesh,  exhaled  by  its  soft  down.  .  .  .     He 
wished  utterly  to  destroy  and  flay  her.     Nothing  but  blood — 
blood.     He  only  felt  at  ease  when  it  streaked  [!]   down.  .  .  . 
He  established  a  theory  according  to  which  this  was  the  way 
towards   the    new   love,    viz.,    by   torture.'      '  There   lay   the 
meadows    red    as   fire   spread    out    in    lovely   slopes  .  .  .  and 
hopes,  the  blue  vampires,  grew  listless.     But  upright  in  its 
pride  and  with  imperial  mourning  walked  a   huge   gray  sun- 
flower, silent  and  pale,  on  the  arm  of  an  awkward  fat  stinking 
thistle,  which  trailed  noisily  afar  with  large  rough  gold,'     '  This 
now  became  for  him  true  art,  the  art  which  alone  could  redeem 
and    make   happy — the   art   of  odours.  .  .  .  From   pale    and 
moaning  fumes  of  the  white  rose,  in  which  the  suicide  triumphs, 
he  awakened  the  eternal  doctrine  of  Buddha,'  etc.     The  re- 


REALISM  523 

mainder  is  better  expressed  in  the  original,  in  Huysmans' 
novel,  A  Rebours.  As  to  the  passages  full  of  a  heat  which 
clamours  for  a  strait -jacket,  and  simulates  satyriasis  and 
Sadism  ;  as  to  the  quaint'  confusions  and  orthographical  errors 
in  French  names  which  the  author,  who  poses  as  a  Parisian, 
commits  at  every  step  ;  and  as  to  his  frequent  manifestation 
of  megalomania,  it  is  enough  to  refer  to  them.  These  things 
are  not  essential,  but  they  contribute  to  make  Bahr's  book  the 
only  product  of  hysterical  mental  derangement  hitherto  existing 
in  German  literature. 

The  greater  number  of  Young-German  plagiarists  have  not 
yet  risen  to  the  monumental  productions  of  a  Tovote  or  a 
Bahr,  and  have  stopped  at  short  pieces  of  lyric  poetry. 

Special  mention  ought  to  be  accorded  to  Gerhart  Haupt- 
mann,  who  has,  unfortunately,  permitted  himself  to  be  enrolled 
among  the  '  Young  Germans.'  It  is  difacult  to  confuse  him 
with  them,  for  if  he  makes  concessions  to  their  aesthetics  of 
the  commonplace  with  a  carelessness  which  of  itself  betrays 
a  disquieting  obtuseness  of  artistic  taste  and  conscience,  he 
nevertheless  may  be  distinguished  from  them  by  some  great 
qualities.  He  possesses  a  luscious,  vivid  vocabulary,  full  of  ex- 
pression and  feeling,  even  though  it  is  a  dialect.  He  knows 
how  to  see  reality,  and  he  has  the  power  to  render  it  in 
poetry. 

It  will  not  occur  to  anyone  to  pronounce  any  final  judgment 
on  this  author  of  thirty  years  of  age.  As  yet  only  his  debut 
can  be  mentioned,  and  hopes  be  formed  for  his  future  develop- 
ment. What  he  has  hitherto  produced  has  been  surprisingly 
unequal.  Side  by  side  with  originality  his  works  present  a 
barren  imitation ;  with  high  artistic  insight,  a  schoolboy's 
awkwardness  and  ingenuousness  ;  with  flights  of  genius,  the 
most  afflicting  commonplaces.  One  scarcely  knows  if  he  is  a 
novelist  or  a  dramatic  writer.  In  two  of  his  pieces,  in  fact, 
Vor  Sonnenmifgang  and  College  Crampton,  there  is  such  a 
complete  absence  of  progressive  action,  a  condition  of  things 
so  purely  stationary  and  devoid  of  development,  that  even  the 
instinct  of  a  natural  talent  for  the  stage  could  never  have  so 
forgotten  itself.  Perhaps  Hauptmann  is  only  temporarily  under 
the  spell  of  an  aesthetic  theory,  from  which  he  will  free  himself 
later.  He  desires,  indeed,  to  describe  the  '  milieu  '  faithfully 
and  closely,  and  loses  sight  in  so  doing  of  the  principal  thing 
in  poetry — of  the  characters  and  their  fate.  His  dramas 
frequently  fall  asunder  for  this  reason  into  a  series  of  episodes, 
in  themselves  well  observed  and  characteristic,  but  only 
distantly,  or  it  may  be  not  at  all,  connected  with  the  plot,  as, 
e.g.,  in  the  play  Vor  Sonnenaufgang,  the  appearance  of  Hopslabar, 
the  servant  Mary  who  is  leaving,  the  coachman's  wife  stealing 


524  DEGENERATION 

the  milk,  etc.     All  are  pictures  of  manners,  but  at  the  same 
time  cease  to  form  united  compositions. 

If  Hauptmann  has  borrowed  from  the  French  realists  the 
excessive  and  useless  accentuation  of  the  *  milieu,'  he  has 
taken  from  Ibsen  the  charlatanism  of  *  modernity '  and  the 
affectation  of  the  '  thesis.'  On  the  model  of  the  Norwegian 
poet  he  suddenly  inserts  into  some  commonplace  history 
belonging  exclusively  to  no  particular  period  or  locality,  some 
intrusive  phrase  containing  an  obscure  allusion  to  '  the  great 
times  in  which  we  live,'  or  the  '  mighty  events  which  are 
coming  to  pass,'  etc.  For  example,  Einsame  Menschen 
(Lonely  Folk)  is  the  needlessly  pretentious  title  of  a  drama 
in  which  we  are  shown  a  really  Ibsenian  idiot,  who  fancies 
himself  misunderstood  by  his  excellent  wife,  and  becomes 
enamoured  of  a  Russian  girl-student,  who  is  their  visitor.  As 
is  generally  the  case  with  such  feeble  wights,  he  desires  to 
possess  the  Russian,  while  not  losing  his  wife  ;  he  has  neither 
the  courage  to  wound  his  wife  by  openly  separating  from  her, 
nor  the  strength  to  conquer  his  guilty  passion  for  the  stranger. 
In  his  torment  he  tries  to  deceive  himself,  to  persuade  himself 
that  his  feelings  towards  the  Russian  are  onl}^  those  of  friend- 
ship and  of  gratitude,  that  she  has  understood  him  and  in- 
tellectually stimulated  him.  The  Russian,  however,  is  more 
clear-sighted,  and  is  about  to  leave  the  house.  The  end  of 
the  story  is  that  the  idiot  drowns  himself.  The  conception  of 
a  weak  man  vacillating  between  two  women,  of  whom  one  is 
the  embodiment  of  duty,  and  the  other  of  presumptive  happi- 
ness, is  as  old  as  the  theatre  itself.  It  has  nothing  to  do  with 
the  times.  It  can  only  be  made  to  pass  as  '  modernism '  by 
prevarication.  And  in  this  feeble  drama  Hauptmann  makes 
his  characters  hold  learned  conversations  full  of  allusions,  such 
as  the  following : 

Fraulein  Anna  {the  Jxuss/an).  These  are,  indeed,  great  times  in  which 
we  are  living.  I  seem  to  feel  as  if  something  close  and  oppressive  were 
gradually  lifting  off  from  us.     Do  you  not  agree  with  me,  Doctor? 

Johannes  {t/te  idiot).  In  what  way? 

Fraulein  Anna.  On  one  side,  a  stifling  dread  was  mastering  us  ;  on 
the  other,  a  gloomy  fanaticism.  The  excessive  strain  seems  now  to  be 
straightened.  Something  like  a  breath  of  fresh  air,  let  us  say  from  the 
twentieth  century,  has  corne  in  upon  us.* 

The  same  swagger  of  modernity  made  the  author  decide 
on  this  title,  Vor  Somienaufgang  (Before  Sunrise),  for  his  first 
work,  and  to  qualify  it  as  a  '  social  drama.'  It  is  no  more 
*  social '  than  any  other  drama,  and  has  no  connection  what- 
ever with  '  sunrise  '  in  a  metaphorical  sense.  It  reveals  the 
state   of  affairs   in  a  Silesian  village,  where  the  discovery  oi 

*  Einsame  Mefjschcnj  Drama.     1891,  p.  84. 


REALISM  525 

coal-mines  on  their  land  has  made  the  peasants  millionaires. 
The  contrast  between  the  coarseness  of  the  rustics  and  their 
opulence  furnishes  good  scenes  for  a  farce ;  but  what  has  it 
to  do  with  the  age  and  its  problems  ?  A  fragment  of  thesis 
is  dovetailed  into  the  farce.  The  peasant  millionaire  is  a 
drunkard.  The  daughter  may  have  inherited  her  father's  vice. 
And  so  a  man  who  has  become  attached  and  engaged  to  her 
leaves  her  with  sorrowful  determination  on  learning  that  the 
old  man  drinks.  This  thesis  is  an  absurdity.  A  drunkard 
can  transmit  his  vice  to  his  children,  but  is  not  bound  to  do 
so,  and,  in  the  instance  in  point,  the  grown-up  daughter  does 
not  betray  the  slightest  inclination  to  drink.  His  thesis  is 
worked  out  on  the  model  of  Ibsenian  maunderings,  and  is  as 
little  taken  from  life  as  the  lover  who  subordinates  his  love  to 
a  very  uncertain  theory.  In  this  man  we  recognise  our  old 
friend,  the  type  of  the  recipe  for  realist  novels,  who  makes 
vague  allusions  to  socialistic  studies  which  he  is  reputed  to 
pursue,*  and  proves  himself,  by  these  shadowy  indications, 
to  be  a  *  modern  '  man. 

Hauptmann  is  true  and  strong  only  when  he  makes  the 
poor  of  the  lowest  class  speak  in  their  own  dialect.  The  maid- 
servants in  Vor  Sonnenaufgang  are  excellent.  The  nurse,  who 
sings  the  baby  to  sleep ;  the  laundress,  Frau  Lehmann,  who 
laments  her  domestic  troubles,  are  by  far  the  most  successful 
characters  in  Einsame  Menschen.  And  if  Die  Weber  is  the  best 
work  he  has  hitherto  produced,  it  is  because  only  the  poorest 
people,  speaking  only  their  own  dialect,  appear  in  it.  But  as 
soon  as  he  has  to  deal  with  more  complex  human  beings  of 
the  educated  classes — beings  who  are  not  perishing  with 
hunger  nor  suffering  from  poverty,  who  speak  high  German, 
and  have  a  wider  intellectual  horizon — he  becomes  uncertain 
and  flat,  and  catches  up  the  pattern-album  of  realism  instead 
of  taking  reality  as  his  model. 

Die  Weber  (The  Weavers)  is  the  only  real  drama  among 
the  five   which   Hauptmann  has  hitherto  written.!     There  is 

*  Gerhart  Hauptmann,  Vor  Soitnenaufgang,  Soziales  Drama,  6^  Auflage  ; 
Berlin,  1892,  p.  14  :  '  During  the  two  years  of  my  imprisonment,  I  wrote  my 
first  book  on  political  economy.'  P.  42  :  'The  Icarians  .  .  .  share  equally 
ail  work  and  all  desert.  No  one  is  poor;  there  are  no  poor  among  them.' 
P.  47  :  '  My  fight  is  a  fight  for  the  happiness  of  all.  .  .  .  Moreover,  I  must 
say  that  the  fight  in  the  interest  of  progress  brings  me  great  satisfaction.' 
(Let  it  be  understood  that  not  the  smallest  trace  of  this  famous  'fight '  is  to 
be  seen  in  the  piece  !)  P.  63  :  'I  should  like  to  study  the  state  of  things 
here.  I  shall  study  the  position  of  the  miners  here.  .  .  .  My  work  must 
be  pre-eminently  descriptive,'  etc. 

f  Since  this  book  has  been  published,  Hauptmann  has  put  on  the  stage 
two  new  pieces  :  The  Beaver  Pelisse,  which  was  an  utter  fiasco,  and 
Hannele,  a  Dream  Poem,  much  discussed  on  account  of  its  strange  mys- 
ticism. 


526  DEGENERATION 

not  much  action  in  this  piece ;  but  it  is  sufficient,  and  it 
progresses.  First,  we  see  the  profound  misery  in  which  the 
weavers  are  perishing  ;  then  we  behold  the  rousing  of  their 
fury  at  their  intolerable  condition,  and  then  their  passion 
gradually  developed  before  our  eyes  in  ever-deepening  intensity, 
rising  into  frenzy,  destructive  madness,  tumults  and  riots,  with 
all  their  tragic  consequences.  The  extraordinary  part  of  this 
drama  is  that  the  author  has  triumphed,  with  a  genius  which 
entitles  him  to  our  respect,  over  the  enormous  difficulty  of 
captivating  and  stirring  our  human  feelings,  without  making 
any  individual  character  the  centre-point  of  his  piece,  and  of 
distributing  the  action  between  a  great  number  of  persons  and 
a  multitude  of  individual  traits,  without  its  ever  ceasing  to  be 
a  united  and  compact  whole.  These  features,  revealing  a 
painfully  minute  observation,  necessarily  belong  to  individuals  ; 
nevertheless,  the)''  excite  a  very  lively  interest,  sympathy  and 
pity,  not  for  the  person,  but  for  a  whole  class  of  men.  We 
reach  through  emotion  a  generalization  which  usually  is  only 
a  work  of  the  intellect,  through  a  poetic  composition  to  a 
feehng  which  usually  is  excited  only  by  history.  In  making 
this  possible,  Hauptmann  rises  infinitely  above  the  bog  of 
barren  imitation,  and  creates  a  truly  new  form,  viz.,  the  drama 
in  which  the  hero  is  not  an  individual,  but  the  crowd  ;  he 
succeeds,  by  artistic  means,  in  presenting  us  with  the  hallucina- 
tion that  we  are  constantly  seeing  before  us  the  nameless 
milhons,  while  naturally  there  are  never  more  than  a  few 
persons  in  the  scene  who  suffer,  speak,  and  act.  Besides  this 
great  and  radical  innovation,  other  burning  aesthetic  questions 
are  solved  in  the  piece  with  overpowering  beauty  and  sobriety. 
We  have  here  a  drama  without  love,  and  at  the  same  time  a 
proof  that  other  sentiments  besides  the  one  instinct  of  sex 
can  powerfully  stir  the  soul  of  the  reader.  The  piece  is,  more- 
over, a  curious  contribution  to  the  wholly  new  '  psychology 
of  the  masses,'  with  which  Sighele,  Fournial,  and  others  have 
been  occupied,*  and  it  gives  an  absolutely  exact  picture  of  the 
delirium  and  hallucinations  which  take  possession  of  the 
individual  in  the  midst  of  an  excited  crowd,  and  transforms 
his  character  and  all  his  instincts  after  the  model  of  the  usually 
criminal  leaders.  It  comprises,  finally,  this  demonstration, 
which  I  have  nowhere  found  so  fully  in  all  the  international 
literature  with  which  I  am  acquainted,  viz.,  that  beautiful 
effects,  when  rightly  employed,  can  be  obtained  even  with  re- 
pulsive subjects.  A  poor  weaver,  who  has  not  touched  meat 
for  two  years,  asks  a  comrade — not  having  the  heart  to  do  it 

*  Scipio  Sighele,  La  Folia  delinqvcnte,  Turin,  1892  ;  translated  into 
French,  La  Foule  criminelle,  Paris,  1893.  Fournial,  Essai  siir  laPsycJiologii 
des  Foides.     Lyon,  i8y2. 


REALISM  527 

himself — to  kill  a  pretty  little  dog  which  had  run  up  to  him, 
and  his  wife  roasts  it  for  him.  He  cannot  control  his  craving, 
and  begins  dipping  into  the  saucepan  almost  before  the  meat 
is  done.  His  stomach,  however,  cannot  bear  the  dainty,  and 
to  his  great  despair  he  is  forced  to  reject  it.*  The  incident 
in  itself  is  not  appetizing.  But  here  it  becomes  beautiful  and 
deeply  affecting,  for  it  describes  with  incomparably  tragic 
power  the  misery  of  these  woebegone  starving  people. 

This  piece,  apparently  so  realistic  in  the  sense  attached  to 
this  word  by  superficial  talkers,  is,  on  the  whole,  the  most 
convincing  refutation  of  the  theory  of  realism.  For  it  is 
incredible  that  all  the  incidents  which  mark  the  dreadful 
position  of  the  weavers  could  have  been  condensed  into 
exactly  one  hour  of  the  day,  and  into  one  single  room  of  the 
workman  Dreissiger's  house;  it  is,  if  not  wholly  impossible, 
at  all  events  very  improbable,  that  the  soldier's  murderous 
bullet  should  happen  to  kill  the  weaver  Hilse,  the  only  man 
trusting  in  God  and  resigned  to  his  fate,  who  remained  quietly 
at  his  work  when  all  the  others  rushed  out  to  pillage  and  riot 
in  the  streets.  The  poet  has  not  depicted  '  real '  life  here,  but 
has  freely  utilized  the  materials  which  he  has  gained  through 
his  observation  of  life  in  order  to  give  artistic  expression  to 
his  personal  ideas.  His  desire  was  to  excite  our  pity  as 
vividly  as  that  felt  by  himself  for  a  definite  form  of  human 
misery.  With  this  object  he  collected  with  the  sure  hand  of 
an  artist,  into  a  narrow  compass,  events  which  in  life  would 
be  distributed  over  months  or  years,  and  at  long  intervals,  and 
he  has  guided  the  flight  of  a  blindly  unconscious  bullet  in  such 
a  way  that  it  commits,  like  a  villain  endowed  with  reason,  a 
peculiarly  dastardly  crime,  thus  raising  our  compassion  for 
the  poor  weavers  to  the  height  of  indignation.  The  piece, 
then,  shows  us  the  ideas  and  designs  of  the  poet,  his  manner 
of  viewing  and  interpreting  reality ;  it  enables  us  to  discern 
the  sentiments  aroused  in  him  by  the  drama  of  life.  It  is, 
then,  in  the  highest  degree  a  '  subjective '  work,  i.e.,  the 
opposite  of  a  '  realistic '  copy  of  fact,  which  would  have  to  be 
photographically  objective. 

*  Gerhart  Hauptmann,  Die  Weber,  Schauspiel  aus  den  vierziger  Jahren, 
2®  Auflage  ;  Berlin,  1892,  p.  39: 

Bertha.  Where  is  father,  then  ?     [Old  Baumert  has  gone  silently  away.] 

Mother  Baumert.  I  don't  know  where  he  can  have  gone. 

Bertha.  Could  it  be  that  he's  no  longer  used  to  meat .? 

Mother  Baumert  {beside  herself,  in  tears).  There  now,  you  see — you 
see  for  yourself,  he  can't  even  keep  it  down.  He'll  throw  up  all  the  little 
good  food  he  has  had. 

Old  Baumert  {returtts,  crying  with  vexatiojt).  Well,  well,  'twill  soon  be 
all  over  with  me.  They'll  soon  have  done  for  me.  If  one  do  chance  to 
get  something  good,  one  isn't  able  to  keep  it,  {He  sits  down  on  the  bench  by 
the  stove,  weeping)    [All  this  conversation  is  written  in  Silesian  dialect.] 


528  DEGENERATION 

How  does  it  happen  that  an  artist,  who  apphes  his  means 
with  so  fine  a  taste  and  with  so  skilful  a  calculation  of  the 
effect,  can  commit  at  the  same  time  such  naivetes  as,  for 
example,  these  stage-directions  in  Vor  Sonnenaufgang  :  '  Frau 
Krause,  at  the  moment  of  seating  herself,  remembers  [!]  that 
grace  has  not  yet  been  said,  and  mechanically  folds  her  hands, 
though  without  otherwise  controlling  her  malice.'  '  It  is  the 
peasant  Krause  who,  as  always  [!],  is  the  last  to  leave  the  inn.' 

*  He  embraces  her  with  the  awkwardness  of  a  gorilla,'  etc. 
How  is  an  actor  to  set  to  work  by  his  awkwardness  to  make 
a  spectator  think  precisely  of  a  gorilla,  or  to  show  him  that, 

*  as  always,'  he  is  the  last  to  leave  the  inn  ?  More  especially, 
how  is  it  to  be  explained  that  this  same  Hauptmann,  who 
has  created  Die  Weber,  should  after  this  lofty  composition 
have  written  the  novels  Der  Apostel  and  Bahnwdrter  Thiel  ?* 
Here  we  fall  back  into  the  lowest  depths  of  Young-German 
incapacity.  The  idea  is  nonsensical  and  a  plagiarism,  the 
story  has  not  a  ray  of  truth,  and  the  language  (so  original  and 
lifelike,  and  so  exactly  rendering  the  lightest  shades  of  thought 
when  the  author  has  recourse  to  patois)  is  commonplace  and 
slipshod  enough  to  make  one  weep.  No  words  must  be  wasted 
on  Der  Apostel.  A  dreamer,  manifestly  touched  by  insanity, 
perambulates  the  streets  of  Zurich  in  the  costume  of  an 
Oriental  prophet,  and  is  taken  to  be  Christ  by  the  crowd  who 
worship  him.  This  is  the  whole  story.  It  is  represented  in 
such  a  way  that  we  never  know  whether  the  narrative  is 
telling  what  the  Apostle  dreamed  or  what  really  happened. 
His  ideas  and  sentiments  are  an  echo  of  Nietzsche.  Z arathustra 
has  incontestably  got  into  Hanptmann's  head,  and  left  him  no 
peace  till  he  had  himself  produced  a  second  infusion  of  this 
idiocy.  The  railway  signalman,  Thiel,  has  lost  his  wife  at 
the  birth  of  their  first  child.  Constantly  away  from  home  on 
duty,  he  is  obliged  to  marry  again  that  his  child  may  be  cared 
for.  The  second  wife,  who  soon  gives  her  husband  a  child 
of  her  own,  ill-treats  the  motherless  one.  In  spite  of  Thiel's 
warnings,  she  one  day  leaves  her  stepchild  on  the  rails  un- 
tended,  and  it  is  crushed  by  a  train.  The  signalman  then 
murders  his  wife  and  her  child  with  a  hatchet  in  the  most 
horrible  manner  at  night,  and  is  shut  up  in  a  lunatic  asylum 
as  a  furious  madman.  Let  me  quote  just  a  few  of  his  descrip- 
tions :  '  In  the  obscurity  .  .  .  the  signalman's  hut  was  trans- 
formed into  a  chapel.  A  faded  photograph  of  the  dead  woman 
on  the  table  before  him,  his  Psalm-book  and  Bible  open,  he 
read  and  sang  alternately  the  whole  night  through,  interrupted 
only  by  the  trains  tearing  past  at  intervals,  and  fell  into  an 

*  Gerhart    Hauptmann,  Der  Apostel,  Bahiiwdrter  Thiel,   Novellistische 
Studien.     Berlin,  1892. 


REALISM  529 

ecstasy  so  intense  that  he  saw  visions  of  the  dead  woman 
standing  before  his  eyes.'  '  The  [telegraphic]  pole,  at  the 
southern  extremity  of  the  section,  had  a  particularly  full  and 
beautiful  chord.  .  .  .  The  signalman  experienced  a  solemn 
feeling — as  at  church.  And  then  in  time  he  came  to  dis- 
tinguish a  voice  which  recalled  to  him  his  dead  wife.  He 
imagined  that  it  was  a  chorus  of  blessed  spirits  in  which  her 
voice  was  mingled,  and  this  idea  awakened  in  him  a  longing, 
an  emotion  amounting  to  tears.'  The  '  Young  German  '  speaks 
with  contempt  of  Berthold  Auerbach,  because  he  depicts 
sentimental  peasants.  Is  there  a  single  one  of  Auerbach's 
Black  Forest  folk  impregnated  with  such  a  rose-watery  senti- 
mentality as  this  signalman  of  the  '  realist '  Hauptmann,  who 
leans  against  a  telegraph-pole,  and  is  moved  to  tears  at  its 
sound  ?  Again,  the  passage  (pp.  22,  23)  which  shows  us  Thiel 
in  amorous  excitement  at  the  sight  of  his  wife  (*  from  the 
woman  an  invincible,  inevitable  power  seemed  to  emanate, 
which  Thiel  felt  himself  impotent  to  resist ')  Hauptmann  has 
drawn  from  Zola's  novels,  and  not  from  the  observations  of 
German  signalmen.  Or  has  he  rather  desired  to  depict  in  a 
general  way  a  madman  who  has  always  been  such  long  before 
his  furious  insanity  broke  out  ?  In  this  case  he  has  drawn  the 
picture  very  falsely. 

And  the  style  of  this  unhappy  book !  The  Scotch  firs  .  .  . 
rubbed  their  branches  squeaking  against  each  other,'  and  *  a 
noisy  squeaking,  rattling,  clattering,  and  clashing  [of  a  train 
with  the  brake  on]  broke  upon  the  stillness  of  the  evening.' 
One  and  the  same  word  to  describe  the  noise  of  branches 
rubbing  each  other,  and  of  a  train  with  the  brake  on  !  '  Two 
red  round  lights  [those  of  a  locomotive]  pierced  the  darkness 
like  the  fixed  and  staring  eyes  of  a  gigantic  monster.'  'The 
sun  .  .  .  sparkling  at  its  rising  like  an  enormous  blood-red 
jewel.'  '  The  sky  which  caught,  like  a  gigantic  and  stainlessly 
blue  bowl  of  crystal,  the  golden  light  of  the  sun.'  And  once 
again :  '  The  sky  like  an  empty  pale-blue  bowl  of  crystal' 
'  The  moon  hung,  comparable  to  a  lamp,  above  the  forest.' 
How  can  an  author  who  has  any  respect  for  himself  employ 
comparisons  which  would  make  a  journeyman  tailor  who 
dabbled  in  writing  blush  ?  Besides,  what  countless  slovenli- 
nesses !  *  Before  his  eyes  floated  pell-mell  little  yellow  points 
like  glow-worms.'  Glow-worms  do  not  give  out  a  yellow,  but 
a  bluish,  light.  *  His  glassy  pupils  moved  incessantly.'  This 
is  a  phenomenon  which  no  one  has  yet  seen,  '  The  trunks  of 
the  fir-trees  stretched  like  pale  decayed  bones  between  the 
summits.'  Bones  are  that  part  of  the  body  which  does  not 
decay.  '  The  blood  which  flowed  was  the  sign  of  combat.' 
Truly  a  reliable  sign  1  Even  great  faults  in  grammar  are  not 
34 


530 


DEGENERATION 


wanting,  but  I  consent  to  take  these  as  printer's  mistakes.  If 
Gerhart  Hauptmann  has  true  friends,  their  imperative  duty  is 
to  rouse  his  conscience.  Having  shown  what  excellent  things 
he  is  capable  of  producing,  he  has  not  the  right  to  scribble 
carelessly  like  the  first  paltry  '  Young-German '  writer.  He 
must  be  strict  with  himself,  and  endeavour  always  to  remain 
the  artist  he  has  shown  himself  in  Die  Weber. 

Hauptmann's  successes  have  not  let  Arno  Holz  and  Johannes 
Schlaf  rest,  and  both  have  joined  to  imitate  his  Vor  Sonnenauf- 
gang.  Their  united  efforts  produced  the  Familie  Selicke, 
a  drama  in  which  nothing  happens,  of  which  alcohol  is  like- 
wise the  subject,  and  where  the  personages  also  speak  in 
dialect.  For  '  modernity's '  sake  they  have  introduced  a 
theological  candidate  who  has  become  a  freethinker,  yet  none 
the  less  wishes  to  obtain  an  incumbency.  I  mention  this  in- 
significant patchwork  play  only  because  the  realists  usually 
quote  it  as  one  of  their  magna  opera. 

Such  are  the  Young-German  realists,  among  whose  number 
I  will  not  include,  as  I  said  before,  a  sterling  author  like 
Gerhart  Hauptmann.  They  do  not  know  German,  are  in- 
capable of  even  observing  life,  still  more  of  understanding  it ; 
they  know  nothing,  learn  nothing,  and  experience  nothing 
whatsoever ;  have  nothing  to  say,  have  neither  a  true  senti- 
ment nor  a  personal  thought  to  express,  yet  never  cease 
writing ;  and  their  scribbling,  in  the  eyes  of  a  great  number, 
passes  as  the  sole  German  literature  of  the  present  and  future. 
They  plagiarize  the  stalest  of  foreign  fashions,  and  call  them- 
selves innovators  and  original  geniuses.  They  append  on  the 
signboard  before  their  shops,  *  At  the  Sign  of  Modernity,' 
and  nothing  is  to  be  found  in  them  but  the  discarded  breeches 
of  bygone  poetasters.  If  the  few  lines  in  which  they  mutter 
about  the  obscure  Socialistic  'studies'  and  'works'  of  the 
hero  be  excluded  from  all  they  have  published  up  to  the 
present  time,  there  will  remain  a  miserable  balderdash,  without 
colour,  taste,  or  connection  with  time  and  space,  and  which  a 
tolerably  conscientious  editor  of  a  newspaper  even  half  a 
century  ago  would  have  thrown  into  the  waste-paper  basket 
as  altogether  too  musty.  They  know  that  very  well,  and  to  be 
beforehand  with  those  who  would  reproach  them  with  their 
charlatanism,  they  audaciously  attribute  it  to  those  respectable 
authors  whom  they  cover  with  their  slaver.  Thus,  Hans 
Merian  dares  to  say  :  '  Spielhagen  makes  it  appear  as  though 
he  had  drawn  the  fundamental  ideas  and  conflicts  in  his 
novels  from  the  great  questions  which  are  stirring  the  present 
time.  But  closely  examined,  all  this  magnificence  evaporates 
into  a  vain  phantasmagoria.'  And  :  '  To  the  fabricators  of 
novels  a  la   Paul   Lindau,  recently  dealing  with  realism,  we 


REALISM 


531 


address  the  reproach  of  false  reahsm.'*  And  this  same  Hans 
Merian  finds  that  the  reahsm  of  Max  Kretzer  and  of  Karl 
Bleibtreu  is  genuine,  and, that  their  Parisian  cocotte-stories, 
transported  contraband  into  Berhn,  and  their  adventures  of 
mythical  waitresses,  are  '  drawn  from  the  great  questions  of 
the  day  ' !  Is  not  this  the  practice  of  thieves  who  scamper 
away  at  full  speed  before  a  policeman,  shouting  as  they  run 
louder  than  anyone  else,  '  Stop  thief!'  The  movement  of  the 
Young  German  is  an  incomparable  example  in  literature  of 
that  tendency  to  form  cliques  which  I  described  in  the  first 
volume  of  this  work.  It  began  by  a  foundation  in  due  form. 
A  man  arrogated  to  himself  the  rank  of  captain,  and  enrolled 
armed  companions  in  order  to  repair  with  them  into  the 
Bohemian  forests.  The  purpose  was  the  same  as  that  of 
every  other  band  of  criminals — the  '  Maffia,'  the  '  Mala  Vita,' 
the  '  Mano  negra,'  etc.,  viz.,  that  of  living  well  without  work- 
ing, by  plundering  the  rich,  by  blackmailing  the  poor,  by  favour- 
ing acts  of  vengeance  by  the  members  on  persons  whom  they 
envy,  hate,  or  fear,  by  satisfying  with  impunity  the  leaning  to 
license  and  crime,  kept  down  by  custom  and  law.  Like  the 
'  Mala  Vita  '  and  analogous  associations,  this  band  palliates 
its  acts  and  deeds  by  stock  phrases  intended  to  secure  the 
favour,  or  at  least  the  indulgence,  of  the  crowd,  incapable  of 
judgment  and  easy  to  move.  Brigands  always  profess  that 
they  are  guided  by  the  desire  to  repair,  to  the  utmost  of  their 
power,  the  injustice  of  fate,  by  relieving  the  rich  of  their 
superfluities,  and  by  then  alleviating  the  misery  of  the  poor. 
Thus,  this  band  asserts  that  it  defends  the  cause  of  truth, 
liberty,  and  progress,  with  the  indecent  love  adventures  of 
tavern-maidservants  and  prostitutes  !  Membership  is  acquired 
by  formal  admission  after  predetermined  tests  have  been 
undergone.  He  must  first  publicly  bespatter  a  well-known 
and  meritorious  author  with  mud.  With  the  predominance 
of  low  and  bad  emotions  in  members  of  the  band,  they  ex- 
perience more  gratification  in  maligning  ■  a  man  they  envy 
than  in  being  praised  themselves.  Next,  the  candidate  must 
worship  as  geniuses  one  or  more  members  of  the  band,  and 
finally  give  proof,  in  verse  or  prose,  that  he  also  is  able  to 
express,  in  the  language  of  a  souteneur,  the  ideas  of  a  convict, 
and  the  sensations  of  a  noisome  beast.  Having  undergone 
these  three  ordeals  with  success,  he  is  received  into  the  band 
and  declared  a  genius.  Just  as  the  bands  of  brigands  have 
their  haunts,  their  receivers  of  stolen  goods,  and  their  secret 
or  affiliated  allies  among  the  tradespeople,  so  this  band 
possesses  its  own  newspaper,  its  appointed  editors  (who,  at 

*  Hans  Merian,  Die sogenamtten  ''Jungdeuische?t'  in  unsererzeitgeiiossischen 
Literaiur,  2«  Aufl.ige.     Leipzig,  ss.  12,  14.     Undated. 


532  DEGENERATION 

first  at  least,  accepted  everything  from  it),  and  secret  under- 
standings with  the  critics  of  respectable  papers.  Its  influence 
extends  even  to  foreign  countries — a  phenomenon  frequently 
observed  in  the  formation  of  bands,  and  expressly  confirmed 
by  Lombroso.  'The  Mattoids,'  he  says,  'as  opposed  to 
geniuses  and  fools,  are  linked  together  by  a  sympathy  of 
interests  and  hatred  ;  they  form  a  kind  of  freemasonry  so 
much  the  more  powerful  that  it  is  less  regular.  It  is  founded 
on  the  need  of  resistance  to  ridicule  which  is  common  to  all, 
and  inexorably  pursues  them  everywhere  on  the  necessity  of 
uprooting,  or  at  least  combating,  the  natural  antithesis,  which, 
for  them,  is  the  man  of  genius  ;  and,  in  spite  of  their  hating 
each  other,  they  stand  firmly  by  one  another.'* 

He  who  from  a  height  surveys  a  horizon  of  a  certain  extent 
can  easily  observe  the  labour  of  the  apostles  of  this  inter- 
national freemasonry.  M.  Teodar  de  Wyzewa,  already  men- 
tioned, who  introduced  to  the  French  the  insane  Nietzsche  as 
the  most  remarkable  author  that  Germany  has  produced  in 
the  second  half  of  this  century,  speaks  in  La  Revue  hleue  and 
in  Le  Figaro  of  Conrad  Alberti  as  the  '  poet '  who  will  dominate 
German  literature  in  the  twentieth  century.  The  '  new 
reviews '  of  the  Symbolists  and  Instrumentists,  La  Revue  blanche, 
La  Plume,  etc.,  translate  the  '  Erlebte  Gedichte '  of  O.  J. 
Bierbaum.  On  the  other  hand,  O.  E.  Hartleben  offers  the 
German  public  the  so-called  'poetry'  of  the  Belgian  Symbo- 
list, Albert  Giraud,  Pierrot  lunaire,  and  H.  Bahr  mutters  with 
transport  over  the  Parisian  mystics.  Ola  Hansson  is  enthu- 
siastic before  German  readers  over  the  realists  of  the  North, 
and  carries  into  Sweden  the  good  news  of  Young-German 
realism,  etc. 

The  actions  of  the  band  have  not  done  much  good  to  itself, 
but  they  have  caused  serious  injuries  to  German  literature. 
It  has  necessarily  exerted  a  baneful  attraction  over  the  young 
who  have  come  to  the  front  in  the  last  seven  or  eight  years. 
If  we  consider  the  enormous  difficulties  to  which  a  beginner 
is  exposed,  who  without  protection  or  influence,  depending 
wholly  on  himself,  ente'rs  into  the  Via  Crucis  leading  to 
literary  success,  we  shall  find  it  quite  comprehensible  that  the 
tyros  should  be  eager  to  join  themselves  to  a  society  possessing 
a  powerful  organization,  its  own  periodicals  and  publishers, 
as  well  as  a  definite  public,  and  always  ready  to  take  the  part 
of  its  members  with  the  unscrupulousness  and  pugnacity  of 
cut-throats.  As  members  of  the  band,  they  are  freed  from  all 
the  difficulties  of  beginners.  The  most  vigorous  talents  alone 
— such,  for  example,  as  Hermann  Sudermann — disdained  to 
lighten  their  struggles  with  the  help  of  such  allies.     The  others 

*  C.  Lombroso  and  R.  Laschi,  Le  Ciime  ^politique,  etc.,  t.  ii.,  p.  ii6. 


REALISM 


533 


willingly  allowed  themselves  to  be  affiliated.     The  result  was, 
on  the  one  hand,  that  wholly  incompetent  lads  were  drawn 
into  the  profession  of  authors,  who  would  never  have  come 
before  the  public  if  they  had  not  had  special  depots  to  which 
they  could  cart  all  their  rubbish  ;  and,  on  the  other  hand,  that 
of  procuring  for  others,  who  were  perhaps  not  wholly  devoid  of 
talent,  periodicals  and  publishers  for  their  childish  effusions,  the 
appearance  of  which  in  print  would  have  been  inconceivable 
before  the  formation  of  the  band.      Some  threw  themselves 
into  the  literary  profession  at  an  age  when  they  should  have 
been  studying  for  a  long  time  to  come,  and  thereby  remained 
ignorant,  immature,  and  superficial ;  others  acquired  slipshod 
and  slovenly  habits  into  which  they  would  never  have  fallen  if, 
in  the  absence  of  the  conveniences  which  the  organization  of 
the  band  offered  them,  they  had  been  obliged  to  submit  to 
some  discipline,  and  develop  their  capacities  with  care.     The 
existence   of    this   literary   '  Maffia '    assisted    the    plagiarists 
against    independent    minds,   the    common    herd    against    the 
solitary,   the    scribbler    against    the    artist,    and    the    obscene 
against  the  refined,  so  powerfully  that  competition  was  almost 
out  of  the  question.     The  luxuriant  growth  of  silly,  boyish, 
and   crude   book-making  is  the  result  of  this  fostering  of  in- 
capacity and  immaturity,  and  this  premium  granted  to  vulgarity. 
I  will  demonstrate  in  one  instance  only  the  disastrous  effect 
of  the  band.     The  case  of  the  Darmstadt  Gymnasium  (public 
school)    boy    may    be    remembered,    who    wrote    under    the 
pseudonym  of  Hans   G.   Ludwigs,  and  committed  suicide  in 
1892  at  the  age  of  seventeen.     For  two  years  he  had  offered 
incense  to  the  realist  '  geniuses,'  and  published  idiotic  novels 
in  the  official  periodicals  of  Young  Germany,  and  he  com- 
mitted suicide  because,   as  he  wrote,   '  this  cursed    boxed-in 
life,'  ie.,  the  obligation  to  learn  and  work  regularly  in  class, 
*  broke  down  his  strength.'     A  good  many  gymnasium   boys 
write  trumpery  things  and  send  them  to  the  papers ;  but  as 
these  are   not  printed,   they  gradually  recover  their   reason. 
Their   heads   do   not  get  turned,  and  they  do  not  come  to 
imagine  that  they  are  much  too  good  to  do  their  lessons,  and 
diligently  prepare   for   their   examinations.      Ludwigs  would 
perhaps  have  been  cured  of  his  folly ;  he  might  have  lived  till 
the  present  day,  and  become  a  useful  man,  if  the  criminal  realist 
periodicals  had  not  printed  his  twaddle,  and  thus  diverted  him 
from    his   studies,    and    intensified    his    unwholesome    boyish 
vanity  into  megalomania. 

That  this  invasion  by  main  force,  this  revolt  of  slaves  into 
literature,  to  use  Nietzsche's  expression,  was  to  a  certain 
extent  successful,  can  be  accounted  for  by  the  state  of  Germany. 
Its  literature  after  1870   had,  in  fact,  become  stagnant.     It 


534 


DEGENERATION 


could  not  be  otherwise.  The  German  people  had  been  obliged 
to  exert  their  whole  strength  to  conquer  their  unity  in  terrible 
wars.  Now,  it  is  not  possible  simultaneously  to  make  history 
on  a  great  scale  and  lead  a  flourishing  artistic  life ;  it  must  be 
one  or  the  other.  In  the  France  of  Napoleon  I.  the  most 
celebrated  authors  were  Delille,  Esmenard,  Parseval  de  Grand- 
maison,  and  Fontanes.  The  Germany  of  William  I.,  of  Moltke 
and  Bismarck,  could  not  produce  a  Goethe  or  a  Schiller. 
This  can  be  explained  without  any  mysticism.  From  the 
mighty  events  of  which  they  are  witnesses  and  collaborators 
the  nation  obtains  a  standard  of  comparison,  by  the  side  of 
which  all  works  of  art  shrink  together,  and  poets  and  artists, 
especially  those  most  gifted  and  conscientious,  feel  depressed 
and  discouraged,  often  even  paralyzed,  by  the  double  percep- 
tion that  their  compatriots  only  peruse  their  works  distractedly 
and  superficially,  and  that  their  creations  absolutely  cannot 
attain  to  the  grandeur  of  the  historical  events  passing  before 
their  eyes.  In  this  critical  period  of  transient  mental  collapse 
the  Young-German  band  made  its  appearance,  and  profited 
greatly  by  what  even  honest  and  sensible  people  were  obliged 
to  acknowledge  as  well-founded  attacks  —  even  while  they 
condemned  the  form  of  them — on  many  of  the  then  reigning 
literary  senators. 

But  another  and  weightier  ground  is  the  anarchy  which 
reigns  at  present  in  German  literature.  Our  republic  of  letters 
is  neither  governed  nor  defended.  It  has  neither  authorities 
nor  police,  and  that  is  the  reason  a  small  but  determined  band 
of  evildoers  can  make  a  great  stir  at  their  pleasure.  Our 
masters  do  not  concern  themselves  about  their  posterity  as 
used  to  be  the  case.  They  have  no  sense  of  the  duty  which 
success  and  glory  impose  upon  them.  Let  me  not  be  mis- 
understood. Nothing  is  further  from  my  thoughts  than  the 
wish  to  transform  literature  into  a  closed  corporation,  and  to 
require  the  new  arrivals  to  become  apprentices  and  journey- 
men (although,  in  fact,  every  new  generation  unconsciously 
forms  itself  on  the  works  of  its  intellectual  ancestors).  But 
they  have  not  the  right  to  be  indifferent  to  what  will  come 
after  them.  They  are  the  intellectual  leaders  of  the  people. 
They  have  their  ear.  On  them  is  the  task  incumbent  of 
facilitating  the  first  steps  of  the  beginner,  and  presenting  them 
to  the  public.  By  this  much  would  be  obtained — continuity 
of  development,  formation  of  a  literary  tradition,  respect  and 
gratitude  for  predecessors,  severe  and  early  suppression  of 
individuals  of  absolutely  unjustifiable  pretensions,  economy  of 
power,  which  in  these  days  a  young  author  must  fritter  away 
in  order  to  come  out  of  his  shell.  But  our  literary  chiefs  have 
no  understanding  for  all  this.     Each  one  thinks  only  of  himself, 


REALISM 


535 


and  is  furiously  jealous  of  his  colleagues  and  his  followers. 
Not  one  of  them  says  that  in  the  intellectual  concert  of  a  great 
people  there  is  room  enough  for  dozens  of  different  artists, 
each  one  of  whom  plays  his  own  instrument.  Not  one  takes 
into  consideration  that  after  him  new  talent  will  be  born,  that 
this  is  a  fact  he  cannot  prevent,  and  that  he  is  preparing  for 
himself  a  better  old  age  by  levelling  the  paths,  instead  of 
viciously  trying  to  close  them  to  those  who,  whatever  he  may 
do,  will  still  be  his  successors  in  public  favour.  Who  amongst 
us  has  ever  received  a  word  of  encouragement  from  one  of  our 
literary  grandees  ?  To  whom  amongst  us  have  they  testified 
their  interest  and  benevolence?  Not  one  of  us  owes  them 
anything  whatsoever  ;  not  one  feels  obliged  to  be  just  towards 
them,  nor  to  make  himself  their  champion  ;  and  when  the 
band  fell  upon  them  like  a  lot  of  brigands,  to  drive  them  off 
with  blows,  and  put  themselves  in  their  place,  not  a  hand  was 
raised  to  defend  them,  and  they  were  cruelly  punished  for 
having  lived  and  acted  in  isolation  and  secret  mutual  hostility, 
sternly  repulsing  the  young,  and  indifferent  to  the  tastes  of 
the  people  whenever  their  own  works  were  not  in  question. 

And  as  we  have  no  Council  of  Ancients,  so  we  lack  also  all 
critical  police.  The  reviewer  may  praise  the  most  wretched 
production,  kill  by  silence  or  drag  through  the  mire  the  highest 
masterpiece,  state  as  the  contents  of  a  book  things  of  which 
there  is  not  the  slightest  mention,  and  no  one  calls  him  to 
account,  no  one  stigmatizes  his  ineptitude,  his  effrontery,  or 
his  falsehood.  Thus  a  public  that  is  neither  led  nor  counselled 
by  its  ancients,  nor  protected  by  its  critical  police,  becomes 
the  predestined  prey  of  all  charlatans  and  impostors. 


BOOK  V. 

THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY. 

CHAPTER    I. 

PROGNOSIS. 

Our  long  and  sorrowful  wandering  through  the  hospital — for 
as  such  we  have  recognised,  if  not  all  civilized  humanity,  at 
all  events  the  upper  stratum  of  the  population  of  large  towns 
to   be — is    ended.      We  have   observed    the  various    embodi- 
ments which  degeneration  and  hysteria  have  assumed  in  the 
art,  poetry,  and  philosophy  of  our  times.     We  have  seen  the 
mental    disorder   affecting   modern   society  manifesting  itself 
chiefly  in  the  following  forms  :  Mysticism,  which  is  the  expres- 
sion of  the  inaptitude  for   attention,   for  clear  thought    and 
control  of  the  emotions,  and  has  for  its  cause  the  weakness 
of  the  higher  cerebral  centres  ;  Ego-mania,  which  is  an  effect  of 
faulty  transmission  by  the  sensory  nerves,  of  obtuseness  in  the 
centres  of  perception,  of  aberration  of  instincts  from  a  craving 
for   sufficiently    strong   impressions,    and   of    the   great    pre- 
dominance of  organic  sensations  over  representative  conscious- 
ness; and  false  Realism,  which  proceeds  from  confused  esthetic 
theories,  and  characterizes  itself  by  pessimism  and  the  irre- 
sistible tendency  to  licentious  ideas,  and  the  most  vulgar  and 
unclean  modes  of  expression.      In   all   three   tendencies   we 
detect  the  same  ultimate  elements,  viz.,  a  brain  incapable  of 
normal  working,  thence  feebleness  of  will,   inattention,  pre- 
dominance of  emotion,  lack  of  knowledge,  absence  of  sympathy 
or  interest  in  the  world  and  humanity,  atrophy  of  the  notion 
of  duty  and  morality.     From  a  clinical  point  of  view  some- 
what unlike  each  other,  these  pathological  pictures  are  never- 
theless only  different  manifestations  of  a  single  and  unique 
fundamental  condition,  to  wit,  exhaustion,  and  they  must  be 
ranked  by  the  alienist  in  the  genus  melancholia,  which  is  the 
psychiatrical  symptom  of  an  exhausted  central  nervous  system. 
Superficial  or  unfair  critics  have  foisted  on  me  the  assertion 


THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY  537 

that  degeneration  and  hysteria  are  the  products  of  the  prcrent 
age.  The  attentive  and  candid  reader  will  bear  witness  that 
I  have  never  circulated  such  an  absurdity.  Hysteria  and 
degeneration  have  always  existed  ;  but  they  formerly  showed 
themselves  sporadically,  and  had  no  importance  in  the  life  of 
the  whole  community.  It  was  only  the  vast  fatigue  which 
was  experienced  by  the  generation  on  which  the  multitude  of 
discoveries  and  innovations  burst  abruptly,  imposing  upon  it 
organic  exigencies  greatly  surpassing  its  strength,  which 
created  favourable  conditions  under  which  these  maladies 
could  gain  ground  enormously,  and  become  a  danger  to 
civilization.  Certain  micro  -  organisms  engendering  mortal 
diseases  have  always  been  present  also — for  example,  the 
bacillus  of  cholera  ;  but  they  only  cause  epidemics  when  cir- 
cumstances arise  intensely  favourable  for  their  rapid  increase. 
In  the  same  way  the  body  constantly  harbours  parasites  which 
only  injure  it  when  another  bacillus  has  invaded  and  devas- 
tated it.  For  example,  we  are  always  inhabited  by  staphylo- 
coccus and  streptococcus,  but  the  influenza  bacillus  must  first 
appear  for  them  to  swarm  and  produce  mortal  suppurations. 
Thus,  the  vermin  of  plagiarists  in  art  and  literature  becomes 
dangerous  only  when  the  insane,  who  follow  their  own  original 
paths,  have  previously  poisoned  the  Zeitgeist,  weakened  by 
fatigue,  and  rendered  it  incapable  of  resistance. 

We  stand  now  in  the  midst  of  a  severe  mental  epidemic ;  of 
a  sort  of  black  death  of  degeneration  and  hysteria,  and  it  is 
natural  that  we  should  ask  anxiously  on  all  sides  :  '  What  is 
to  come  next  ?' 

This  question  of  eventuality  presents  itself  to  the  physician 
in  every  serious  case,  and  however  delicate  and  rash,  above 
all,  however  little  scientific  any  prediction  may  be,  he  cannot 
evade  the  necessity  of  establishing  a  prognosis.  For  that 
matter,  this  is  not  purely  arbitrary,  not  a  blind  leap  into  the 
dark  ;  the  most  attentive  observation  of  all  the  symptoms, 
assisted  by  experience,  permits  a  generally  just  conclusion  on 
the  ulterior  evolution  of  the  evil. 

It  is  possible  that  the  disease  may  not  have  yet  attained  its 
culminating  point.  If  it  should  become  more  violent,  gain 
yet  more  in  breadth  and  depth,  then  certain  phenomena  which 
are  perceived  as  exceptions  or  in  an  embryo  condition  would 
henceforth  increase  to  a  formidable  extent  and  develop  con- 
sistently ;  others,  which  at  present  are  only  observed  among 
the  inmates  of  lunatic  asylums,  would  pass  into  the  daily 
habitual  condition  of  whole  classes  of  the  population.  Life 
would  then  present  somewhat  the  following  picture  : 

Every  city  possesses  its  club  of  suicides.  By  the  side  of 
this   exist   clubs   for   mutual   assassination   by   strangulation, 


538  DEGENERATION 

hanging,  or  stabbing.  In  the  place  of  the  present  taverns 
houses  would  be  found  devoted  to  the  service  of  consumers 
of  ether,  chloral,  naphtha,  and  hashish.  The  number  of 
persons  suffering  from  aberrations  of  taste  and  smell  has 
become  so  considerable  that  it  is  a  lucrative  trade  to  open 
shops  for  them  where  they  can  swallow  in  rich  vessels  all 
sorts  of  dirt,  and  breathe  amidst  surroundings  which  do  not 
offend  their  sense  of  beauty  nor  their  habits  of  comfort  the 
odour  of  decay  and  filth.  A  number  of  new  professions  are 
being  formed — that  of  injectors  of  morphia  and  cocaine;  of 
commissioners  who,  posted  at  the  corners  of  the  streets,  offer 
their  arms  to  persons  attacked  by  agoraphobia,  in  order  to 
enable  them  to  cross  the  roads  and  squares  ;  of  companies  of 
men  who  by  vigorous  affirmations  are  charged  to  tranquillize 
persons  afflicted  with  the  mania  of  doubt  when  taken  by  a  fit 
of  nervousness,  etc. 

The  increase  of  nervous  irritability,  far  beyond  the  present 
standard,  has  made  it  necessary  to  institute  certain  measures 
of  protection.  After  it  has  frequently  come  to  pass  that  over- 
excited persons,  being  unable  to  resist  a  sudden  impulsion,  have 
killed  from  their  windows  with  air-guns,  or  have  even  openly 
attacked,  the  street  boys  who  have  uttered  shrill  whistles  or 
piercingly  sharp  screams  without  rhyme  or  reason ;  that  they 
have  forced  their  way  into  strange  houses  where  beginners  are 
practising  the  piano  or  singing,  and  there  committed  murder ; 
that  they  have  made  attempts  with  dynamite  against  tramways 
where  the  conductor  rings  a  bell  (as  in  Berlin)  or  whistles — it 
has  been  forbidden  by  law  to  whistle  and  bawl  in  the  street ; 
special  buildings,  managed  in  such  a  way  that  no  sound 
penetrates  to  the  outside,  have  been  established  for  the 
practice  of  the  piano  and  singing  exercises ;  public  con- 
veyances have  no  right  to  make  a  noise,  and  the  severest 
penalty  is  at  the  same  time  attached  to  the  possession  of  air- 
guns.  The  barking  of  dogs  having  driven  many  people  in  the 
neighbourhood  to  madness  and  suicide,  these  animals  cannot 
be  kept  in  a  town  until  after  they  have  been  made  mute  by 
severing  the  '  recurrent '  nerve.  A  new  legislation  on  subjects 
connected  with  the  press  forbids  journalists,  under  severe 
penalties,  to  give  detailed  accounts  of  violence  or  suicides 
under  peculiar  circumstances.  Editors  are  responsible  for 
all  punishable  actions  committed  in  imitation  of  their  re- 
ports. 

Sexual  psychopathy  of  every  nature  has  become  so  general 
and  so  imperious  that  manners  and  laws  have  adapted  them- 
selves accordingly.  They  appear  already  in  the  fashions. 
Masochists  or  passivists,  who  form  the  majority  of  men,  clothe 
themselves  in  a  costume  which  recalls,   by  colour   and  cut. 


THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY  539 

feminine  apparel.  Women  who  wish  to  please  men  of  this 
kind  wear  men's  dress,  an  eyeglass,  boots  with  spurs  and 
riding-whip,  and  only  show  themselves  in  the  street  with  a 
large  cigar  in  their  mouths.  The  demand  of  persons  with  the 
*  contrary '  sexual  sentiment  that  persons  of  the  same  sex  can 
conclude  a  legal  marriage  has  obtained  satisfaction,  seeing 
they  have  been  numerous  enough  to  elect  a  majority  of 
deputies  having  the  same  tendency.*  Sadists,  '  bestials,' 
nosophiles,  and  necrophiles,  etc.,  find  legal  opportunities  to 
gratify  their  inclinations.  Modesty  and  restraint  are  dead 
superstitions  of  the  past,  and  appear  only  as  atavism  and 
among  the  inhabitants  of  remote  villages.  The  lust  of  murder 
is  confronted  as  a  disease,  and  treated  by  surgical  interven- 
tion, etc. 

The  capacity  for  attention  and  contemplation  has  diminished 
so  greatly  that  instruction  at  school  is  at  most  but  two  hours 
a  day,  and  no  public  amusements,  such  as  theatres,  concerts, 
lectures,  etc.,  last  more  than  half  an  hour.  For  that  matter, 
in  the  curriculum  of  studies,  mental  education  is  almost  wholly 
suppressed,  and  by  far  the  greater  part  of  the  time  is  reserved  for 
bodily  exercises  ;  on  the  stage  only  representations  of  unveiled 
eroticism  and  bloody  homicides,  and  to  this,  flock  voluntary 
victims  from  all  the  parts,  who  aspire  to  the  voluptuousness 
of  dying  amid  the  plaudits  of  delirious  spectators. 

The  old  religions  have  not  many  adherents.  On  the  other 
hand,  there  are  a  great  number  of  spirituahst  communities 
who,  instead  of  priests,  maintain  soothsa3^ers,  evokers  of  the 
dead,  sorcerers,  astrologers,  and  chiromancers,  etc. 

Books  such  as  those  of  the  present  day  have  not  been  in 
fashion  for  a  very  long  time.  Printing  is  now  only  on  black, 
blue,  or  golden  paper;  on  another  colour  are  single  inco- 
herent words,  often  nothing  but  syllables,  nay,  even  letters  or 
numbers  only,  but  which  have  a  symbolical  significance  which 
is  meant  to  be  guessed  by  the  colour  and  print  of  the  paper 
and  form  of  the  book,  the  size  and  nature  of  the  characters. 
Authors  soliciting  popularity  make  comprehension  easy  by 
adding  to  the  text  symbolical  arabesques,  and  impregnating  the 
paper  with  a  definite  perfume.  But  this  is  considered  vulgar 
by  the  refined  and  connoisseurs,  and  is  but  little  esteemed. 
Some  poets  who  publish  no  more  than  isolated  letters  of  the 
alphabet,  or  whose  works  are  coloured  pages  on  which  is 
absolutely  nothing,  elicit  the  greatest  admiration.  There  are 
societies  whose  object  it  is  to  interpret  them,  and  their 
enthusiasm  is  so  fanatical  that  they  frequently  have  fights 
against  each  other  ending  in  murder. 

*  Dr.  R.  von  Krafft-Ebing,  Neue  Forshimgen,  etc.,  2  Auflage,  pp.  IC9,  118. 
By  the  same,  Psychopathia  Sexualis,  3  Auflage,  p.  65. 


540  DEGENERATION 

It  would  be  easy  to  augment  this  picture  still  further,  no 
feature  of  which  is  invented,  every  detail  being  borrowed  from 
special  literature  on  criminal  law  and  psychiatria,  and  obser- 
vations of  the  peculiarities  of  neurasthenics,  hysterics,  and 
mattoids.  This  will  be,  in  the  near  future,  the  condition  of 
civilized  humanity,  if  fatigue,  nervous  exhaustion,  and  the 
diseases  and  degeneration  conditioned  by  them,  make  much 
greater  progress. 

Will  it  come  to  this  ?  Well,  no  ;  I  think  not.  And  this,  for 
a  reason  which  scarcely  perhaps  permits  of  an  objection : 
because  humanity  has  not  yet  reached  the  term  of  its  evolu- 
tion ;  because  the  over-exertion  of  two  or  three  generations 
cannot  yet  have  exhausted  all  its  vital  powers.  Humanity  is 
not  senile.  It  is  still  young,  and  a  moment  of  over-exertion  is 
not  fatal  for  j^outh  ;  it  can  recover  itself.  Humanity  resembles 
a  vast  torrent  of  lava,  which  rushes,  broad  and  deep,  from  the 
crater  of  a  volcano  in  constant  activity.  The  outer  crust 
cracks  into  cold,  vitrified  scoriae,  but  under  this  dead  shell  the 
mass  flows,  rapidly  and  evenly,  in  living  incandescence. 

As  long  as  the  vital  powers  of  an  individual,  as  of  a  race, 
are  not  wholly  consumed,  the  organism  makes  efforts  actively 
or  passively  to  adapt  itself,  by  seeking  to  modify  injurious 
conditions,  or  by  adjusting  itself  in  some  way  so  that  condi- 
tions impossible  to  modify  should  be  as  little  noxious  as 
possible.  Degenerates,  hysterics,  and  neurasthenics  are  not 
capable  of  adaptation.  Therefore  they  are  fated  to  disappear. 
That  which  inexorably  destroys  them  is  that  they  do  not  know 
how  to  come  to  terms  with  reality.  They  are  lost,  whether 
they  are  alone  in  the  world,  or  whether  there  are  people  with 
them  who  are  still  sane,  or  more  sane  than  they,  or  at  least 
curable. 

They  are  lost  if  they  are  alone  :  for  anti-social,  inattentive, 
without  judgment  or  prevision,  they  are  capable  of  no  useful 
individual  effort,  and  still  less  of  a  common  labour  which 
demands  obedience,  discipline,  and  the  regular  performance 
of  duty.  They  fritter  away  their  life  in  solitary,  unprofitable, 
aesthetic  debauch,  and  all  that  their  organs,  which  are  in  full  re- 
gression, are  still  good  for  is  enervating  enjoyment.  Like  bats  in 
old  towers,  they  are  niched  in  the  proud  monument  of  civiliza- 
tion, which  they  have  found  ready-made,  but  they  themselves 
can  construct  nothing  more,  nor  prevent  any  deterioration. 
They  live,  like  parasites,  on  labour  which  past  generations 
have  accumulated  for  them  ;  and  when  the  heritage  is  once 
consumed,  they  are  condemned  to  die  of  hunger. 

But  they  are  still  more  surely  and  rapidly  lost  if,  instead  of 
being  alone  in  the  world,  healthy  beings  yet  live  at  their  side. 
For  in  that  case  they  have  to  fight  in  the  struggle  for  existence, 
and  there  is  no  leisure  for  them  to  perish  in  a  slow  decay  by 


THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY 


541 


their  own  incapacity  for  work.  The  normal  man,  with  his 
clear  mind,  logical  thought,  sound  judgment,  and  strong  will, 
sees,  where  the  degenerate  only  gropes;  he  plans  and  acts 
where  the  latter  dozes  arid  dreams  ;  he  drives  him  without 
effort  from  all  the  places  where  the  life-springs  of  Nature 
bubble  up,  and,  in  possession  of  all  the  good  things  of  this 
earth,  he  leaves  to  the  impotent  degenerate  at  most  the  shelter 
of  the  hospital,  lunatic  asylum,  and  prison,  in  contemptuous 
pity.  Let  us  imagine  the  drivelling  Zoroaster  of  Nietzsche, 
with  his  cardboard  lions,  eagles,  and  serpents,  from  a  toyshop, 
or  the  noctambulist  Des  Esseintes  of  the  Decadents,  sniffing 
and  licking  his  lips,  or  Ibsen's  "solitary  powerful"  Stock- 
mann,  and  his  Rosmer  lusting  for  suicide — let  us  imagine  these 
beings  in  competition  with  men  who  rise  early,  and  are  not 
weary  before  sunset,  who  have  clear  heads,  solid  stomachs  and 
hard  muscles  :  the  comparison  will  provoke  our  laughter. 

Degenerates  must  succumb,  therefore.  They  can  neither 
adapt  themselves  to  the  conditions  of  Nature  and  civilization, 
nor  maintain  themselves  in  the  struggle  for  existence  against 
the  healthy.  But  the  latter — and  the  vast  masses  of  the 
people  still  include  unnumbered  millions  of  them — will  rapidly 
and  easily  adapt  themselves  to  the  conditions  which  new 
inventions  have  created  in  humanity.  Those  who,  by  marked 
deficiency  of  organization,  are  unable  to  do  so,  among  the 
generation  taken  unawares  by  these  inventions,  fall  out  of  the 
ranks ;  they  become  hysterical  and  neurasthenical,  engender 
degenerates,  and  in  these  end  their  race;*  but  the  more 
vigorous,  although  they  at  first  also  have  become  bewildered 
and  fatigued,  recover  themselves  little  by  little,  their  descend- 
ants accustom  themselves  to  the  rapid  progress  which 
humanity  must  make,  and  soon  their  slow  respiration  and 
their  quieter  pulsations  of  the  heart  will  prove  that  it  no 
longer  costs  them  any  effort  to  keep  pace  and  keep  up  with 
the  others.  The  end  of  the  twentieth  century,  therefore,  will 
probably  see  a  generation  to  whom  it  will  not  be  injurious  to 
read  a  dozen  square  yards  of  newspapers  daily,  to  be  constantly 
called  to  the  telephone,  to  be  thinking  simultaneously  of  the 
five  continents  of  the  world,  to  live  half  their  time  in  a  railway 
carriage  or  in  a  flying  machine,  and  to  satisfy  the  demands  of 
a  circle  of  ten  thousand  acquaintances,  associates,  and  friends. 
It  will  know  how  to  find  its  ease  in  the  midst  of  a  city  inhabited 
by  miUions,  and  will  be  able,  with  nerves  of  gigantic  vigour,  to 
respond  without  haste  or  agitation  to  the  almost  innumerable 
claims  of  existence. 

If,  however,  the  new  civilization  should  decidedly  outstrip 

*  Dr.  A.  B.  Morel,  Traits  des  Deghierescejices,  p,  581,  note  :  'The  state  of 
arrested  development  and  sterility  are  the  essential  characteristics  of  beings 
arrived  at  the  extreme  limit  of  degeneracy.' 


542  DEGENERATION 

the  powers  of  humanity,  if  even  the  most  robust  of  the  species 
should  not  in  the  long-run  grow  up  to  it,  then  ulterior  genera- 
tions will  settle  with  it  in  another  way.     They  will  simply  give 
it  up.     For  humanity  has  a  sure  means   of  defence  against 
innovations  which  impose  a  destructive  effort  on  its  nervous 
system,     namely,     '  misoneism,'    that     instinctive,     invincible 
aversion  to  progress   and  its    difficulties  that   Lombroso   has 
studied  so  much,  and  to  which  he  has  given  this  name.*    Mis- 
oneism protects  man  from  changes  of  which  the  suddenness 
or  the  extent  would  be  baneful  to  him.     But  it  does  not  only 
appear  as  resistance  to  the  acceptation  of  the  new  ;    it  has 
another  aspect,  to  wit,  the  abandonment  and  gradual  elimina- 
tion of  inventions  imposing  claims  too    hard  on   man.     We 
see  savage  races  who  die  out  when  the  power  of  the  white  man 
makes  it  impossible  for  them  to  shut  out  civilization  ;  but  we 
see  also  some  who  hasten  with  joy  to  tear  off  and  throw  away 
the  stiff  collar  imposed  by  civilization,  as  soon  as  constraint  is 
removed.     I  need  only  recall  the  anecdote,  related  in  detail  by 
Darwin,  of  the  Fuegian  Jemmy  Button,  who,  taken  as  a  child 
to  England  and  brought  up  in  that  country,  returned  to  his 
own  land  in  the  patent-leather  shoes  and  gloves  and  what  not 
of  fashionable  attire,  but  who,  when  scarcely  landed,  threw  off 
the  spell  of  all  this  foreign  lumber  for  which  he  was  not  ripe, 
and   became    again    a  savage  among  savages,  t      During  the 
period    of  the  great   migrations,    the   barbarians    constructed 
block-houses   in   the   shadow   of   the    marble   palaces    of  the 
Romans   they  had  conquered,   and   preserved  of   Roman    in- 
stitutions,   inventions,    arts    and    sciences,   only   those   which 
were  easy  and  pleasant  to  bear.     Humanity  has,  to-day  as 
much  as  ever,  the  tendency  to  reject  all  that  it  cannot  digest. 
If  future  generations  come  to  find  that  the  march  of  progress 
is  too  rapid  for  them,  they  will  after  a  time  composedly  give  it 
up.     They  will  saunter  along  at  their  own  pace  or  stop  as  they 
choose.     They  will  suppress  the  distribution  of  letters,  allow 
railways  to  disappear,  banish  telephones  from  dwelling-houses, 
preserving  them  only,  perhaps,  for  the  service  of  the  State,  will 
prefer  weekly  papers  to  daily  journals,  will  quit  cities  to  return 
to  the  country,  will  slacken  the  changes  of  fashion,  will  simplify 
the  occupations  of  the  day  and  year,  and  will  grant  the  nerves 
some  rest  again.     Thus,  adaptation  will  be  effected  in  any  case, 
either  by  the  increase  of  nervous  power  or  by  the  renuncia- 
tion of  acquisitions  which  exact  too  much  from  the  nervous 
system. 

As   to  the  future  of  art  and  literature,  with  which   these 

*  C.  Lombroso  and  R.  Laschi,  Le  Crime  politiqtie^  etc.,  t.  i.,  p.  8  et  seq. 
f  Charles  Darwin,  A  Naiiiralisfs  Voyage  round  the    World,  Journal  of 
Researches,  etc.,  chap.  x. 


THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY  543 

inquiries  are  chiefly  concerned,  that  can  be  predicted  with 
tolerable  clearness.  I  resist  the  temptation  of  looking  into  too 
remote  a  future.  Otherwise  I  should  perhaps  prove,  or  at 
least  show  as  very  probable,  that  in  the  mental  life  of  cen- 
turies far  ahead  of  us  art  and  poetry  will  occupy  but  a  very 
insignificant  place.  Psychology  teaches  us  that  the  course  of 
development  is  from  instinct  to  knowledge,  from  emotion  to 
judgment,  from  rambling  to  regulated  association  of  ideas. 
Attention  replaces  fugitive  ideation ;  will,  guided  by  reason,  re- 
places caprice.  Observation,  then,  triumphs  ever  more  and 
more  over  imagination  and  artistic  symbolism — i.e.,  the  intro- 
duction of  erroneous  personal  interpretations  of  the  universe 
is  more  and  more  driven  back  by  an  understanding  of  the  laws 
of  Nature.  On  the  other  hand,  the  march  followed  hitherto  by 
civilization  gives  us  an  idea  of  the  fate  which  may  be  re- 
served for  art  and  poetry  in  a  very  distant  future.  That  which 
originally  was  the  most  important  occupation  of  men  of  full 
mental  development,  of  the  maturest,  best,  and  wisest  members 
of  society,  becomes  little  by  little  a  subordinate  pastime,  and 
finally  a  child's  amusement.  Dancing  was  formerly  an  ex- 
tremely important  affair.  It  was  performed  on  certain  grand 
occasions,  as  a  State  function  of  the  first  order,  with  solemn 
ceremonies,  after  sacrifices  and  invocations  to  the  gods,  by  the 
leading  warriors  of  the  tribe.  To-day  it  is  no  more  than  a 
fleeting  pastime  for  women  and  youths,  and  later  on  its  last 
atavistic  survival  will  be  the  dancing  of  children.  The  fable 
and  the  fairy-tale  were  once  the  highest  productions  of  the 
human  mind.  In  them  the  most  hidden  wisdom  of  the  tribe 
and  its  most  precious  traditions  were  expressed.  To-day  they 
represent  a  species  of  literature  only  cultivated  for  the  nursery. 
The  verse  which  by  rhythm,  figurative  expression,  and  rhyme 
trebly  betrays  its  origin  in  the  stimulations  of  rhythmically 
functioning  subordinate  organs,  in  association  of  ideas  working 
according  to  external  similitudes,  and  in  that  working  accord- 
ing to  consonance,  was  originally  the  only  form  of  literature. 
To-day  it  is  only  employed  for  purely  emotional  portrayal ;  for 
all  other  purposes  it  has  been  conquered  by  prose,  and,  indeed, 
has  almost  passed  into  the  condition  of  an  atavistic  language. 
Under  our  very  eyes  the  novel  is  being  increasingly  degraded, 
serious  and  highly  cultivated  men  scarcely  deeming  it  worthy 
of  attention,  and  it  appeals  more  and  more  exclusively  to  the 
young  and  to  women.  From  all  these  examples,  it  is  fair  to 
conclude  that  after  some  centuries  art  and  poetry  will  have 
become  pure  atavisms,  and  will  no  longer  be  cultivated  except 
by  the  most  emotional  portion  of  humanity — by  women,  by  the 
young,  perhaps  even  by  children. 

But,  as  I  have  said,  I  merely  venture  on  these  passing  hints 


544  DEGENERATION 

as  to  their  yet  remote  destinies,  and  will  confine  myself  to  the 
immediate  future,  which  is  far  more  certain. 

In  all  countries  aesthetic  theorists  and  critics  repeat  the 
phrase  that  the  forms  hitherto  employed  by  art  are  henceforth 
effete  and  useless,  and  that  it  is  preparing  something  perfectly 
new,  absolutely  different  from  all  that  is  yet  known.  Richard 
Wagner  first  spoke  of  *  the  art-work  of  the  future,'  and  hundreds 
of  incapable  imitators  lisp  the  term  after  him.  Some  among 
them  go  so  far  as  to  try  to  impose  upon  themselves  and  the 
world  that  some  inexpressive  banality,  or  some  pretentious 
inanity  which  they  have  patched  up,  is  this  art-work  of  the 
future.  But  all  these  talks  about  sunrise,  the  dawn,  new  land, 
etc.,  are  only  the  twaddle  of  degenerates  incapable  of  thought.. 
The  idea  that  to-morrow  morning  at  half-past  seven  o'clock  a 
monstrous,  unsuspected  event  will  suddenly  take  place  ;  that  on 
Thursday  next  a  complete  revolution  will  be  accomplished  at 
a  single  blow,  that  a  revelation,  a  redemption,  the  advent  of  a 
new  age,  is  imminent — this  is  frequently  observed  among  the 
insane ;  it  is  a  mystic  delirium.  Reality  knows  not  these 
sudden  changes.  Even  the  great  revolution  in  France, 
although  it  was  directly  the  work  of  a  few  ill-regulated  minds 
like  Marat  and  Robespierre,  did  not  penetrate  far  into  the 
depths,  as  has  been  shown  by  H.  Taine  and  proved  by  the 
ulterior  progress  of  history ;  it  changed  the  outer  more  than 
the  inner  relations  of  the  French  social  organism.  All  de- 
velopment is  carried  on  slowly ;  the  day  after  is  the  continua- 
tion of  the  day  before  ;  every  new  phenomenon  is  the  outcome 
of  a  more  ancient  one,  and  preserves  a  family  resemblance  to 
it.  '  One  would  say,'  observes  Renan  with  quiet  irony,  'that 
the  young  have  neither  read  the  history  of  philosophy  nor 
Ecclesiastes  :  "  the  thing  that  hath  been,  it  is  that  which  shall 
be."  '*  The  art  and  poetry  of  to-morrow,  in  all  essential 
points,  will  be  the  art  and  poetry  of  to-day  and  yesterday,  and 
the  spasmodic  seeking  for  new  forms  is  nothing  more  than 
hysterical  vanity,  the  freaks  of  strolling  players  and  charla- 
tanism. Its  sole  result  has  hitherto  been  childish  declamation, 
with  coloured  lights  and  changing  perfumes  as  accompaniments, 
and  atavistic  games  of  shadows  and  pantomimes,  nor  will  it 
produce  anything  more  serious  in  the  future. 

New  forms!  Are  not  the  ancient  forms  flexible  and  duc- 
tile enough  to  lend  expression  to  every  sentiment  and  every 
thought  ?  Has  a  true  poet  ever  found  any  difficulty  in  pouring 
into  known  and  standard  forms  that  which  surged  within  him, 
and  demanded  an  issue  ?  Has  form,  for  that  matter,  the 
dividing,  predetermining,  and  delimitating  importance  which 
dreamers  and  simpletons  attribute  to  it  ?  The  forms  of  lyric 
*  Ernest  Renan,  Feuilles  detachies.     Paris,  1892,  Preface,  p.  10. 


THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY  545 

poetry  extend  from  the  birthday-rhyming^  of  the  '  popular  poet 
of  the  occasion,'  who  works  to  order  and  pubHshes  his  address 
in  the  paper,  to  Schiller's  Lay  of  the  Bell;  dramatic  form  in- 
cludes at  the  same  time'  the  Geschundener  Rauh-ritter  (The 
Highwayman  Fleeced),  acted  some  time  ago  at  Berlin,  and 
Goethe's  Faust;  the  epic  form  embraces  Kortum's  Jobsiad& 
and  Dante's  Divina  Commedia,  Heinz  Tovote's  Im  Liebesrauche 
and  Thackeray's  Vanity  Fair.  And  yet  there  are  bleatings 
for  '  new  forms  '  ?  If  such  there  be,  they  will  give  no  talent  to 
the  incapable,  and  those  who  have  talent  know  how  to  create 
something  even  within  the  limits  of  old  forms.  The  most 
important  thing  is  the  having  something  to  say.  Whether 
it  be  said  under  a  lyric,  dramatic,  or  epic  form  is  of  no 
essential  consequence,  and  the  author  will  not  easily  feel  the 
necessity  of  leaving  these  forms  in  order  to  invent  some 
dazzling  novelty  in  which  to  clothe  his  ideas.  The  history 
of  art  and  poetry  teaches  us,  moreover,  that  new  forms  have 
not  been  found  for  three  thousand  years.  The  old  ones  have 
been  given  by  the  nature  of  human  thought  itself  They  would 
only  be  able  to  change  if  the  form  of  our  thought  itself  became 
changed.  There  is,  of  course,  evolution,  but  it  only  affects 
externals,  not  our  inmost  being.  The  painter,  for  example, 
discovers  the  picture  on  the  easel  after  the  picture  on  the  wall ; 
sculpture,  after  the  free  figure,  discovers  high  relief,  and  still 
later  low  relief,  which  already  intrenches  in  a  way  not  free 
from  objection  on  the  domain  of  the  painter ;  the  drama 
renounces  its  supernatural  character,  and  learns  to  unfold 
itself  in  a  more  compact  and  condensed  exposition ;  the  epos 
abandons  rhythmic  language,  and  makes  use  of  prose,  etc. 
In  these  questions  of  detail  evolution  will  continue  to  operate, 
but  there  will  be  no  modification  in  the  fundamental  lines  of 
the  different  modes  of  expression  for  human  emotion. 

All  amplifications  of  given  artistic  frames  have  hitherto 
consisted  in  the  introduction  of  new  subjects  and  figures,  not 
in  the  invention  of  new  forms.  It  was .  an  advance  when, 
instead  of  the  gods  and  heroes  which  till  that  time  alone  had 
peopled  the  epic  poem,  Petronius  introduced  into  narrative 
poetry  {The  Banquet  of  Trimalchio)  the  characters  of  con- 
temporary Roman  life,  or  when  the  Netherlanders  of  the  seven- 
teenth century  discovered  for  painting — which  knew  of  naught 
save  religious  and  mythological  events,  or  great  proceedings 
of  state — the  world  of  fairs,  popular  festivals,  and  rustic 
taverns.  Quevedo  and  Mendoza,  who  represent  the  beggars 
in  the  'Picaresque'  novel — the  model  of  the  German  Grim- 
melshausen  writings — Richardson,  Fielding,  J.  J.  Rousseau, 
who  take  as  the  subject  of  their  novels,  instead  of  extraordinary 
adventures,  the  reflections  and  emotions  of  ordinary  average 
35 


546  DEGENERATION 

beings  ;  Diderot,  who  in  he  Fih  naturel  and  Le  Pere  de  Famille 
places  his  townspeople  on  the  arrogant  French  stage,  which  till 
then  had  only  known  insignificant  people  as  figuring  in  comedies 
and  farces,  but  in  serious  drama,  kings  and  great  lords  alone — 
all  these  authors  invented,  it  is  true,  no  new  forms,  but  gave 
to  old  forms  a  different  content  from  that  of  tradition.  We 
observe  also  an  advance  of  this  kind  in  the  poetry  and  art  of 
our  own  day.  They  have  given  to  the  proletariat  the  rights 
of  citizenship  in  art  and  literature.  They  show  the  labourer, 
not  as  a  coarse  or  ridiculous  figure,  not  with  the  object  of 
producing  a  comic  or  coarse  effect,  but  as  a  serious,  frequently 
tragic  being,  worthy  of  our  sympathy.  Art  is  hereby  enriched 
in  the  same  way  as  it  once  was  by  the  introduction  of  rascals 
and  adventurers,  of  a  Clarissa,  a  Tom  Jones,  a  Julie  {Nouvelh 
Heldise),  a  Werther,  a  Constance  {Le  Fits  naturel),  etc.,  into  the 
circle  of  its  representations.  Nevertheless,  when  many  people 
in  bewilderment  exclaim  hereupon,  '  The  art  of  to-morrow  will 
be  socialistic  1'  they  utter  unfathomable  nonsense.  Socialism 
is  a  conception  of  the  laws  which  ought  to  determine  the 
production  and  distribution  of  property.  With  this,  art  has 
nothing  to  do.  Art  cannot  take  any  side  in  politics,  nor  is  it 
its  business  to  find  and  propose  solutions  to  economic  questions. 
Its  task  is  to  represent  the  eternally  human  causes  of  the 
socialist  movement,  the  suffering  of  the  poor,  their  yearning 
after  happiness,  their  struggle  against  hostile  forces  in  Nature 
and  in  the  social  mechanism,  and  their  mighty  elevation 
from  the  abyss  into  a  higher  mental  and  moral  atmosphere. 
When  art  fulfils  this  task,  when  it  shows  the  proletariat  how 
it  lives  and  suffers,  how  it  feels  and  aspires,  it  awakens  in  us 
an  emotion  which  becomes  the  mother  of  projects  for  altera- 
tion, transformation,  and  reform.  It  is  in  exciting  such 
fruitful  emotions,  and  by  them  the  desire  to  heal  the  hurt, 
that  art  co-operates  with  progress,  and  not  by  socialist  de- 
clamations, and  perhaps  still  less  by  executing  pictures  of  the 
state  and  the  society  of  the  future.  Bellamy's  patchwork, 
Looking  Backward,  is  outside  art,  and  the  twentieth  century 
will  surely  not  favour  books  of  this  quality.  The  glorification 
of  the  proletariat  by  a  Karl  Henckell,  who  practises  with 
regard  to  the  fourth  estate  a  more  shocking  Byzantinism  than 
was  ever  displayed  by  a  tail-wagging  courtier  to  a  king,  is 
entirely  incapable  of  awakening  interest  and  sympathy  for  the 
working  man.  Neither  is  true  and  useful  emotion  to  be 
expected  either  by  such  false  nonsense  as,  for  example,  Ludwig 
Fulda's    Verlorene    Paradies,*    or    Ernst    von    Wildenbruch's 

*  Ludwig  Fulda,  Das  verlorene  Paradies^  Schauspiel  in  drei  Aufziigen. 
Stuttgart,  1892.     Cy;  p.  112: 

MiJHLBERGER.  Rika,  Rika  ;  come  out  ! 
Fkedkrika.  Oh,  Lord  !  will  thev  send  me  back? 


THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY  547 

Haubenlerche*  A  brave  woman  like  Minna  Wettstein-Adelt,f 
who  obtains  employment  as  a  daily  workwoman  in  a  factory,  and 
simply  relates  what  she  experienced  there ;  a  plucky  man  of 
sound  sense  and  a  warm  heart  like  Goehre,  who  depicts  the 
life  of  a  factory-hand  according  to  his  own  experience  ;|  a 
Gerhart  Hauptmann,  too,  with  his  closely-observed  details  in 
Die  Weber,  do  more  for  the  proletariat  than  all  the  Emile 
Zolas,  with  their  empty  theorizing  in  Germinal  and  V Argent, 
than  all  the  William  Morrises,  with  their  high-flown  rhymings 
on  the  noble  workman,  who  becomes  under  their  pen  a 
caricature  of  the  '  noble  savage '  so  much  laughed  at  in  the 
old  novel-writers  on  the  primeval  forests,  and  yet  more  still 
than  all  the  scribblers  who  strew  their  pottage  with  socialist 
phrases  by  way  of  '  modern  '  seasoning,  Mrs.  Beecher-Stowe's 
Uncle  Tom's  Cabin  did  not  preach  against  slavery,  nor  risk 
projects  in  favour  of  its  suppression.  But  this  book  has 
drawn  tears  from  millions  of  readers,  and  caused  negro  slavery 
to  be  felt  as  a  disgrace  to  America,  and  thus  contributed 
essentially  to  its  abolition.  Art  and  poetry  can  do  for  the 
proletariat    what    Mrs.    Beecher  -  Stowe    has    done    for    the 

MiJHLBERGER.  Here's  my  daughter.  She  must  go  into  the  fresh  air — 
into  the  fresh  air. 

Frederika.  Father,  let  me  be.     I  must  work. 

MiJHLBERGER  {wtth  passionate  resolution).  No.  No  more  work — no 
more — no  more  work.  You  must  go  out  into  the  fresh  air,  my  child — my 
good  sick  child,  {^He  holds  her  i7t  his  embrace.  Pause.  No  one  present  can 
escape  from  the  impression  of  this  episode.^ 

So  says  the  author  !  I  do  not  think  that  these  sentimental  phrases  pro- 
duce the  smallest  effect  on  anybody.  Note  (in  the  original)  how  Fulda,  an 
author  of  talent,  in  no  way  affiliated  to  the  '  Young-German  realists,'  is 
himself  sufficiently  intimidated  by  their  ranting  to  seek  for  'modernity'  by 
using  the  Berlin  dialect. 

*  Ernst  von  Wildenbruch,  Die  Haubenlerche,  Schauspiel  in  vier  Akten. 
Berlin,  1891.     Cf.  p.  134  : 

August.  Work  builds  the  world.  Therefore,  it  must  be  executed  for  its 
own  sake ;  it  must  be  loved  !  .  .  .  And  you — when  I  have  seen  you  stand- 
ing before  your  tub — with  the  water-scoop  in  your  hand — in  such  a  way  that 
the  windows  flew  open — then  I  thought.  Ah  !  here  is  one  who  loves  his 
tub  !  .  .  . 

Ilefeld.  Master  August,  'tis  as  if  I  had  been  married  to  it,  to  my  tub — 
that's  how  ii's  been  ! 

August.  And  yet  you  leave  it  standing  there  so  that  anybody  might  take 
your  place  ?     What  am  I  to  say  to  the  tub,  should  it  ask  after  Paul  Ilefeld  ? 

Ilefeld  {sits  down  heavily  and  dries  his  eyes  with  his  hand). 

All  the  workmen  I  know  would  be  convulsed  with  laughing  at  this  con- 
versation. 

f  Madame  Minna  Wettstein-Adelt,  Three  and  a  Half  Months  in  a 
Factory,  Fine  praktische  Studie,  2"  Auflage.     Berlin,  1892. 

t  Paul  Gcehre,  Three  Months  Factory  Hand  and  Apprentice,  Eine  prak- 
tische Studie.     Leipzig,  1892. 


548  DEGENERATION 

negroes  of  the  United  States.  They  cannot  and  will  not  do 
more. 

It  is  not  unusual  at  present  to  meet  this  sentence :  *  The 
art  and  poetry  of  the  future  will  be  scientific'  Those  who 
say  this  assume  extraordinarily  conceited  attitudes,  and  con- 
sider themselves  unmistakably  as  extremely  progressive  and 
*  modern.'  I  ask  myself  in  vain  what  these  words  can 
mean.  Do  the  good  people  who  mean  so  well  by  science 
imagine  that  sculptors  will  in  the  future  chisel  microscopes  in 
marble,  that  painters  will  depict  the  circulation  of  the  blood, 
and  that  poets  will  display  in  rich  rhymes  the  principles  of 
Euclid  ?  Even  this  would  not  be  science,  but  merely  a 
mechanical  occupation  with  the  external  apparatus  of  science. 
But  this  will  surely  not  occur.  In  the  past  a  confusion 
between  art  and  science  was  possible ;  in  the  future  it  is  un- 
imaginable. The  mental  activity  of  man  is  too  highly  de- 
veloped for  such  an  amalgamation.  Art  and  poetry  have 
emotion  for  their  object,  science  has  knowledge.  The  former 
are  subjective,  the  latter  objective.  The  former  work  with 
the  imagination,  i.e.,  with  the  association  of  ideas  directed 
by  emotion  ;  the  latter  works  with  observation,  i.e.,  with  the 
association  of  ideas  determined  by  sense-impressions,  of  which 
the  acquisition  and  reinforcement  are  the  work  of  attention. 
Province,  object,  and  method  in  art  and  science  are  so  different, 
and  in  part  so  opposed,  that  to  confuse  them  would  signify  a 
retrogression  of  thousands  of  years.  One  thing  only  is  correct  : 
the  images  issuing  from  the  old  anthropomorphic  concep- 
tion, the  allusions  to  obsolete  states  of  things  and  ideas  which 
Fritz  Mauthner  has  called  '  dead  symbols ' — all  this  will  dis- 
appear from  art.  I  think  that  in  the  twentieth  century  it  will 
no  longer  occur  to  any  painter  to  compose  pictures  like  Guido 
Reni's  Aurora  in  the  Rospigliosi  Palace,  and  that  a  poet  would 
be  laughed  at  who  should  represent  the  moon  looking  amorously 
into  a  pretty  girl's  room.  The  artist  is  the  child  of  his  times, 
the  conception  dominant  in  the  world  is  his  also,  and  in  spite 
of  all  his  tendency  to  atavism  his  method  of  expression  is  that 
with  which  contemporary  culture  furnishes  him.  No  doubt 
the  art  of  the  future  will  avoid  more  than  hitherto  the  great 
errors  in  universally  recognised  doctrines  of  science,  but  it  will 
never  become  science. 

The  feelings  of  pleasure  which  a  man  receives  from  art 
result  from  the  gratification  of  three  different  organic  inclina- 
tions or  tendencies.  He  needs  the  incitement  which  the 
variety  offers  him ;  he  takes  pleasure  in  recognising  the 
originals  in  the  imitations ;  he  represents  to  himself  the 
feelings  of  his  fellow-creatures,  and  shares  in  them.  He  finds 
variety  in  works  transporting  him  into  wholly  different  scenes 


THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY  549 

from  those  he  knows,  and  which  are  famiHar  to  him.  The 
pleasurable  feeling  of  recognition  he  obtains  by  the  careful 
imitations  of  familiar  reahties.  His  sympathy  makes  him 
share  with  lively  personal  emotions  every  strongly  and  clearly 
expressed  emotion  of  the  artist.  There  will  always  be  in  the 
future,  as  heretofore,  amateurs  of  works  of  imagination,  which 
transport  the  reader  or  spectator  into  remote  times  and 
countries,  or  relate  extraordinary  adventures ;  others  will 
prefer  works  in  which  the  faithful  observation  of  the  known 
will  prevail ;  the  most  refined  and  the  most  advanced  will 
find  pleasure  only  in  those  in  which  a  soul,  with  its  most  secret 
feelings  and  thoughts,  reveals  itself.  The  art  of  the  future  will 
not  be  wholly  romantic,  wholly  realistic,  or  wholly  indivi- 
dualistic, but  will  appeal  from  first  to  last  as  much  by  its  story 
to  curiosity,  as  by  imitation  to  the  pleasure  of  recognition,  and 
by  the  externalism  of  the  artist's  personality  to  sympathy. 

Two  tendencies  which  have  long  been  rivals  will  presumably 
contend  still  more  violently  in  the  future  for  supremacy,  viz., 
observation  and  the  free  flight  of  imagination,  or,  to  speak 
more  briefly,  though  more  inaccurately,  realism  and  romanti- 
cism. Good  artists,  doubtless,  in  consequence  of  their  higher 
mental  development,  will  always  be  more  prone  and  more  apt 
accurately  to  perceive  and  accurately  to  interpret  the  phe- 
nomena of  the  world.  But  the  crowd  will  no  less  certainly 
demand  of  artists  in  the  future  something  different  from  the 
average  reality  of  the  world.  Among  creators,  the  desire  for 
realism  will  exist,  as  among  recipients,  the  need  of  romanticism. 
For — and  this  seems  to  be  an  important  point — the  task  of  art 
in  the  coming  century,  will  be  to  exert  over  men  that  charm 
of  variety  which  reality  will  no  longer  offer,  and  which  the 
brain  cannot  relinquish.  All  that  is  called  *  picturesque  '  will 
necessarily  disappear  more  and  more  from  the  earth.  Civiliza- 
tion ever  becomes  more  uniform.  The  distinctive  is  felt  as 
an  inconvenience  by  those  who  are  marked  by  it,  and  got  rid 
of.  Ruins  delight  a  foreigner's  eye,  but  they  inconvenience  the 
native,  and  he  sweeps  them  away.  The  traveller  is  disgusted 
at  seeing  the  beauty  of  Venice  profaned  by  steamers,  but  for 
the  Venetian  it  is  a  benefit  to  cover  long  distances  quickly  for 
ten  centesimi.  Soon  the  last  Redskin  will  wear  a  frock-coat 
and  tall  hat ;  the  regulation  railway  buildings  will  display 
their  prosaic  outlines  and  hues  along  the  great  wall  of  China 
and  under  the  palm-trees  of  Tuggurt  in  the  Sahara ;  and 
Macaulay's  celebrated  Maori  will  no  longer  contemplate  the 
ruins  of  Westminster,  but  a  trashy  imitation  of  the  palace 
at  Westminster  will  serve  as  a  Maori  House  of  Parliament. 
The  unique  Yosemite  Park,  which  the  Americans  in  their 
very  wise  foresight  wish  to  preserve  intact  in  its  prehistoric 


550 


DEGENERATION 


wildness,  will  not  satisfy  the  craving  for  something  new, 
different,  picturesque,  romantic,  which  humanity  demands, 
and  the  latter  will  claim  from  art  what  civilization — clean, 
curled,  and  smart — will  no  longer  offer. 

I  can  now  sum  up  in  a  few  words  my  prognosis.  The 
hysteria  of  the  present  day  will  not  last.  People  will  recover 
from  their  present  fatigue.  The  feeble,  the  degenerate,  will 
perish ;  the  strong  will  adapt  themselves  to  the  acquisitions 
of  civilizations,  or  will  subordinate  them  to  their  own  organic 
capacity.  The  aberrations  of  art  have  no  future.  They  will 
disappear  when  civilized  humanity  shall  have  triumphed  over 
its  exhausted  condition.  The  art  of  the  twentieth  century 
will  connect  itself  at  every  point  with  the  past,  but  it  will  have 
a  new  task  to  accomplish — that  of  introducing  a  stimulating 
variety  into  the  uniformity  of  civilized  hfe,  an  influence  which 
probably  science  alone  will  be  in  a  position  to  exert,  many 
centuries  later,  over  the  great  majority  of  mankind. 


CHAPTER    IL 

THERAPEUTICS. 

Is  it  possible  to  accelerate  the  recovery  of  the  cultivated 
classes  from  the  present  derangement  of  their  nervous 
system  ? 

I  seriously  believe  it  to  be  so,  and  for  that  reason  alone 
I  undertook  this  work. 

No  one,  I  hope,  will  think  me  childish  enough  to  imagine 
that  I  can  bring  degenerates  to  reason  by  incontrovertibly  and 
convincingly  demonstrating  to  them  the  derangement  of  their 
minds.  He  whose  profession  brings  him  into  frequent  contact 
with  the  insane  knows  the  utter  hopelessness  of  attempting 
by  persuasion  or  argument  to  bring  them  to  a  recognition  of 
the  unreality  and  morbidness  of  their  delusions.  The  only 
result  attained  is  that  they  regard  the  physician  either  as  an 
enemy  and  persecutor,  and  fiercely  hate  him,  or  as  a  block- 
head devoid  of  reason  on  whom  they  vent  their  derision. 

It  is  equally  vain  to  preach  to  fanatics  of  the  insane  tendencies 
of  fashions  in  art  and  literature,  on  their  enthusiasm  for  error 
and  foolishness.  These  fanatics,  without  being  actually  momen- 
tarily diseased,  are  yet  on  the  border-line  of  insanity.  They  do 
not  and  cannot  believe  it.  For  the  works,  the  madness  of  which 
is  at  the  first  glance  apparent  to  every  rational  being,  actually 
afford  them  feelings  of  pleasure.  These  works  are  an  expres- 
sion of  their  own  mental  derangement,  and  of  the  perversion 


THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY  551 

of  their  own  instincts.  In  the  perusal,  or  contemplation  of 
these  productions,  the  half-witted  fall  into  a  state  of  excitation 
which  they  hold  to  be  aesthetic,  but  which  is  really  sensual  ; 
and  this  sensation  is  so  genuine  and  immediate,  they  are  so 
sure  of  it,  that  they  can  feel  only  annoyance  at  or  pity  for  him 
who  would  make  it  plain  to  them  that  these  works  evoke  no 
pleasure,  but  only  disgust  and  contempt.  To  an  habitual 
drinker  it  is  possible  to  prove  that  absinthe  is  pernicious,  but 
it  is  absolutely  impossible  to  convince  him  that  it  has  a 
disagreeable  taste.  To  him,  indeed,  it  tastes  seductively 
delicious.  It  is  in  vain  that  the  psychiatrical  critic  assures 
the  patient  that  this  book,  that  picture,  are  horrible  deliriums ; 
the  invalid  will  in  good  faith  reply :  *  Deliriums  ?  That  may 
be.  But  abhorrent  ?  That  I  can  never  believe.  I  know 
better.  They  move  me  deeply  and  delightfully,  and  nothing 
you  can  say  can  prevent  their  doing  so  1'  Those  whose  minds 
are  more  unhinged  go  still  further,  and  say  bluntly  :  *  We  feel 
in  all  our  nerves  the  beauty  of  these  works.  You  do  not ;  so 
much  the  worse  for  you.  Instead  of  perceiving  that  you  are 
a  barbarian,  devoid  of  intelligence,  and  an  obtuse  Philistine, 
you  wish  to  argue  us  out  of  our  most  positive  sensations.  The 
only  delirious  person  here  is  yourself.' 

The  history  of  civilization  teaches  to  satiety,  that  delusions 
awaken  ardent  enthusiasm,  and  during  hundreds  or  thousands 
of  years  obtain  an  invincible  mastery  of  the  thought  and 
feeling  of  millions,  because  they  vouchsafe  a  satisfaction,  un- 
healthy though  it  be,  to  an  existing  instinct.  Against  that 
which  procures  feelings  of  pleasure  for  man,  the  objections  of 
reason  are  unavailing. 

Those  degenerates,  whose  mental  derangement  is  too  deep- 
seated,  must  be  abandoned  to  their  inexorable  fate.  They  are 
past  cure  or  amelioration.  They  will  rave  for  a  season,  and 
then  perish.  This  book  is  obviously  not  written  for  them.  It 
is,  however,  possible  to  reduce  the  disease  of  the  age  *  to  its 
anatomical  necessity '  (to  use  the  excellent  expression  of 
German  medical  science),  and  to  this  end  every  effort  must  be 
directed.  For  in  addition  to  those  whose  organic  constitution 
irrevocably  condemns  them  to  such  a  fate,  the  present  de- 
generate tendencies  are  pursued  by  many  who  are  only  victims 
to  fashion  and  certain  cunning  impostures,  and  these  mis- 
guided ones  we  may  hope  to  lead  back  to  right  paths.  If,  on 
the  other  hand,  they  were  to  be  passively  abandoned  to  the 
influences  of  graphomaniacal  fools  and  their  imbecile  or  un- 
scrupulous bodyguard  of  critics,  the  inevitable  result  of  such 
a  neglect  of  duty  would  be  a  much  more  rapid  and  violent 
outspread  of  the  mental  contagion,  and  civilized  humanity 
would  with  much  greater  difficulty,  and   much  more  slowly, 


552  DEGENERATION 

recover  from  the  disease  of  the  age  than  it  might  under  a 
strong  and  resolute  combat  with  the  evil. 

Those  persons,  on  whose  minds  it  is  above  all  necessary  to 
impress  the  fact  that  the  current  tendencies  are  a  result  of 
mental  degeneration  and  hysteria,  are  the  slightly  affected 
and  the  healthy,  who  allow  themselves  to  be  deluded  by 
cunningly -devised  catch-words,  or  who,  through  heedless 
curiosity,  flock  where  they  see  a  crowd.  Certain  critics  have 
thought  to  intimidate  me  into  speechlessness  by  saying  :  *  If 
the  indications  cited  are  a  proof  of  degeneration  and  mental 
disease,  then  is  art  and  poetry  in  general  the  work  of  fools 
and  degenerates,  even  such  as  has,  without  reservation,  been 
hitherto  admired,  for  in  this  likewise  there  are  to  be  met 
the  marks  of  degeneration.'  To  which  I  reply  :  If  scientific 
criticism,  which  tests  works  of  art  according  to  the  principles 
of  psychiatry  and  psychology,  should  result  in  showing  that 
all  artistic  activity  is  diseased,  that  would  still  prove  nothing 
against  the  correctness  of  my  critical  method.  It  would  only 
be  the  acquisition  of  fresh  knowledge.  It  would,  doubtless, 
destroy  a  charming  delusion,  and  prove  painful  to  many ;  but 
science  ought  not  to  be  checked  by  the  consideration  that 
its  results  annihilate  agreeable  errors,  and  frighten  the  easy- 
going out  of  comfortable  habits  of  thought.  Faith,  again,  is 
another  sovereign  besides  art ;  it  has  rendered  quite  other 
services  to  humanity  at  a  certain  stage  of  evolution,  has  other- 
wise consoled  and  raised  it,  given  it  other  ideals,  and  advanced 
it  morally  in  a  different  way  from  even  the  greatest  geniuses 
of  art.  Science,  nevertheless,  has  not  hesitated  to  pronounce 
faith  a  subjective  error  of  man,  and  would,  therefore,  suffer 
far  fewer  scruples  in  characterizing  art  as  something  morbid 
if  facts  should  convince  it  that  such  was  the  case.  Moreover, 
not  all  that  is  morbid  is  necessarily  ugly  and  pernicious.  The 
expectoration  of  a  sufferer  from  lung  disease  is  quite  as  much  a 
diseased  secretion  as  the  pearl.  Is  the  pearl  made  more  ugly 
or  the  expectoration  more  beautiful  by  the  fact  that  they  have 
the  same  origin  ?  The  toxine  of  sausage-meat  is  the  excretion 
of  a  bacterium,  that  of  ethyl-alcohol  the  secretion  from  a 
fungus.  Is  the  similarity  of  genesis  the  condition  of  equal 
value  for  enjoyment  in  a  poisoned  sausage  and  a  glass  of  old 
Rhine  wine  ?  It  would  prove  nothing  in  regard  to  Tolstoi's 
Kreutzer  Sonata  or  Ibsen's  Rosmersholm  if  it  were  of  necessity 
admitted  that  Goethe's  Werther  suffers  from  irrational  eroticism, 
and  that  the  Divina  Commedia  and  Faust  are  symbolic  poems. 
The  whole  objection,  indeed,  proceeds  from  a  non-recognition 
of  the  simplest  biological  facts.  The  difference  between  disease 
and  health  is  not  one  of  kind,  but  of  quantity.  There  is  only 
one  kind  of  vital  activity  of  the  cells  and  of  the  cell-systems 


THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY  553 

or  organs.  It  is  the  same  in  disease  and  in  health.  It  is 
sometimes  accelerated,  and  sometimes  retarded ;  and  when 
this  deviation  from  the  rule  is  detrimental  to  the  ends  of  the 
whole  organism,  we  call  it  disease.  As  it  is  here  a  question 
of  more  or  less,  it  is  impossible  to  define  their  limits  sharply. 
Extreme  cases  are  naturally  easily  recognised.  But  who  shall 
determine  with  accuracy  the  exact  point  at  which  deviation 
from  the  normal,  i.e.,  from  health,  begins  ?  The  insane  brain 
performs  its  functions  according  to  precisely  the  same  laws  as 
the  rational  brain,  but  it  obeys  these  laws  either  imperfectly 
or  excessively.  In  every  human  being  there  exists  the 
tendency  to  interpret  sense-impressions  falsely.  It  is  diseased 
only  when  exhibited  in  extraordinary  strength.  The  traveller 
in  a  railway  carriage  has  an  illusory  perception  of  the  landscape 
flying  by  him  while  he  is  sitting  still.  The  sufferer  from  the 
delusion  of  persecutions  imagines  that  someone  is  wafting  him 
evil  odours,  or  hurling  currents  of  electricity  at  him.  Both  of 
these  ideas  rest  on  sense-illusions.  Are  both  for  that  reason 
marks  of  insanity  ?  The  traveller  and  the  paranoist  commit 
the  same  error  of  thought,  and,  nevertheless,  the  former  is 
perfectly  sane,  and  the  latter  deranged  in  mind.  It  may 
therefore  with  perfect  security  be  affirmed  that  certain 
peculiarities — such  as  intense  emotionalism,  the  tendency  to 
symbolism,  the  predominance  of  imagination — are  to  be  met 
with  in  all  true  artists.  That  all  should  be  degenerates  is 
very  far  from  being  a  necessary  consequence  of  this.  It  is 
only  the  exaggeration  of  these  peculiarities  which  constitutes 
a  disease.  The  sole  conclusion  justified  by  their  regular  ap- 
pearance in  artists  would  be  that  art,  without  being  properly 
a  disease  of  the  human  mind,  is  yet  an  incipient,  slight 
deviation  from  perfect  health  ;  and  I  should  raise  no  objection 
to  this  conclusion,  the  less  so  because  it  in  no  way  helps  the 
case  of  real  degenerates  and  their  distinctly  diseased  works. 
But  it  is  not  enough  to  prove  that  mj^sticism,  ego-mania,  and 
the  pessimism  of  realism  are  forms  of  rnental  derangement. 
AW  the  seductive  masks  must  be  torn  from  these  tendencies, 
and  their  real  aspect  be  shown  in  its  grinning  nakedness. 

In  opposition  to  healthy  art,  which  they  deride  as  musty 
and  antiquated,  they  pretend  to  represent  youth.  An  ill- 
advised  criticism  has  actually  been  caught  by  their  lime,  and 
emphasizes  their  youth  with  constant  irony.  What  clumsiness  ! 
As  if  any  effort  in  the  world  could  deprive  of  its  charm  the 
word  'young,'  this  essential  notion  of  all  that  is  blooming  and 
fresh,  this  note  of  the  dawn  and  the  spring,  and  transform  it 
into  a  term  of  reproach  and  insult !  The  truth  is,  however, 
that  degenerates  are  not  only  not  young,  but  that  they  are 
weirdly  senile.     Senile  is  their  splenetic  calumniation  of  the 


554  DEGENERATION 

world  and  life ;  senile  are  their  babblings,  drivellings,  ravings 
and  divagations ;  senile  their  impotent  appetites,  and  their 
cravings  for  all  the  stimulants  of  exhaustion.  To  be  young  is 
to  hope ;  to  be  young  is  to  love  simply  and  naturally ;  to  be 
young  is  to  rejoice  in  one's  own  health  and  strength,  and  in 
that  of  all  human  beings,  and  of  the  birds  of  the  air  and  the 
beetles  in  the  grass  ;  and  of  these  qualities  there  is  not  one 
to  be  met  with  among  the  youth-simulating,  decayed  de- 
generates. 

They  have  the  name  of  liberty  on  their  lips  when  they  pro- 
claim as  their  god  their  corrupt  self,  and  call  it  progress  when 
they  extol  crime,  deny  morality,  raise  altars  to  instinct,  scoff  at 
science,  and  hold  up  loafing  sestheticism  as  the  sole  aim  of  life. 
But  their  invocation  of  liberty  is  shameless  blasphemy.  How 
can  ther'='  be  a  question  of  liberty  when  instinct  is  to  be 
almighty  i  Let  us  remember  Count  Muffat  in  Zola's  Nana 
(p.  4gi)  :  '  At  other  times  he  was  a  dog.  She  threw  her 
scented  handkerchief  to  the  end  of  the  room  for  him,  and  he 
had  to  run  on  all  fours  to  pick  it  up  with  his  teeth.  *'  Fetch 
it,  Cassar  !  .  .  .  Look  out;  I'll  give  it  to  you  if  you're  lazy! 
.  .  .  Very  good,  Caesar!  mind!  nicely!  .  .  .  Sit  up!" 
And  as  for  him,  he  loved  his  abasement,  revelled  in  the  joy 
of  being  a  brute.  He  wanted  to  sink  still  lower  ;  he  cried  : 
"  Hit  harder.  .  .  .  Bow  wow !  I  am  mad ;  hit  me  then !"  ' 
That  is  the  liberty  of  one  who  is  *  emancipated  '  in  the  sense 
of  the  degenerates !  He  may  be  a  dog,  if  his  crazed  instinct 
commands  him  to  be  a  dog!  And  if  the  'emancipated'  one 
is  named  Ravachol,  and  his  instinct  commands  him  to  perpe- 
trate the  crime  of  blowing  up  a  house  with  dynamite,  the 
peaceable  citizen  sleeping  in  this  house  is  free  to  fly  into  the 
air,  and  fall  again  to  the  ground  in  a  bloody  rain  of  shreds  of 
flesh  and  splinters  of  bone.  Progress  is  possible  only  by  the 
growth  of  knowledge  ;  but  this  is  the  task  of  consciousness  and 
judgment,  not  of  instinct.  The  march  of  progress  is  charac- 
terized by  the  expansion  of  consciousness  and  the  contrac- 
tion of  the  unconscious;  the  strengthening  of  will  and  the 
weakening  of  impulsions  ;  the  increase  of  self-responsibility 
and  the  repression  of  reckless  egoism.  He  who  makes  instinct 
man's  master  does  not  wish  for  liberty,  but  for  the  most 
infamous  and  abject  slavery,  viz.,  enslavement  of  the  judgment 
of  the  individual  by  his  most  insensate  and  self-destructive 
appetites  ;  enslavement  of  the  inflamed  man  by  the  craziest 
whims  of  a  prostitute  ;  enslavement  of  the  people  by  a  few 
stronger  and  more  violent  personalities.  And  he  who  places 
pleasure  above  discipline,  and  impulse  above  self-restraint, 
wishes  not  for  progress,  but  for  retrogression  to  the  most 
primitive  animality. 


THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY  555 

Retrogression,  relapse — this  is  in  general  the  ideal  of  this 
band  who  dare  to  speak  of  liberty  and  progress.  They  wish 
to  be  the  future.  That  is  one  of  their  chief  pretensions.  That 
is  one  of  the  means  by  which  they  catch  the  largest  number  of 
simpletons.  We  have,  however,  seen  in  all  individual  cases 
that  it  is  not  the  future  but  the  most  forgotten,  far-away  past. 
Degenerates  lisp  and  stammer,  instead  of  speaking.  They 
utter  monosyllabic  cries,  instead  of  constructing  grammatically 
and  syntactically  articulated  sentences.  They  draw  and  paint 
like  children,  who  dirty  tables  and  walls  with  mischievous 
hands.  They  compose  music  like  that  of  the  yellow  natives 
of  East  Asia.  They  confound  all  the  arts,  and  lead  them  back 
to  the  primitive  forms  they  had  before  evolution  differentiated 
them.  Every  one  of  their  qualities  is  atavistic,  and  we  know, 
moreover,  that  atavism  is  one  of  the  most  constant  marks  of 
degeneracy.  Lombroso  has  convincingly  demonstrated  that 
many  peculiarities  of  the  born  criminals  described  by  him  are 
also  atavisms.  Over-hasty  critics  believed  that  they  had  dis- 
covered a  very  subtle  objection  when,  with  a  smile  of  self- 
satisfaction,  they  objected  :  '  You  assert  that  criminal  instinct 
is  at  once  degeneracy  and  atavism.  These  two  dicta  are 
mutually  exclusive.  Degeneracy  is  a  pathological  state ;  the 
most  convincing  proof  of  this  is,  that  the  degenerate  type  does 
not  propagate  itself,  but  becomes  extinct.  Atavism  is  a  return 
to  an  earlier  state,  which  cannot  have  been  diseased,  because 
the  men  who  existed  under  those  conditions  have  developed 
themselves  and  progressed.  Return  to  a  healthy,  albeit  remote, 
state  cannot  possibly  be  disease.'  All  this  verbiage  has  its 
source  in  the  stubborn  superstition  which  sees  in  disease  a 
state  differing  essentially  from  that  of  health.  This  is  a  good 
example  of  the  confusion  which  a  word  is  capable  of  producing 
in  muddled  or  ignorant  brains.  As  a  matter  of  fact  there 
exists  no  activity  and  no  state  of  the  living  organism  which 
can  in  itself  be  designated  as  '  health  '  or  '  disease.'  But  they 
become  these  in  respect  of  the  circumstances  and  purposes  of 
the  organism.  According  to  the  time  of  its  appearance,  one 
and  the  same  state  may  very  well  be  at  one  time  disease  and 
at  another  health.  In  the  human  foetus,  at  the  sixth  week, 
hare-lip  is  a  regular  and  healthy  phenomenon.  In  the  newly- 
born  child  it  is  a  malformation.  In  the  first  year  of  its  life 
the  child  cannot  walk.  Why  ?  Because  its  legs  are  too  weak 
to  support  it  ?  Decidedly  not.  The  well-known  experiments 
of  Dr.  L.  Robinson  on  sixty  new-born  infants  have  proved 
that  they  are  able  to  hang  by  their  hands  from  s  stick  for 
thirty  seconds,  a  performance  implying  muscular  strength 
quite  as  considerable,  relatively  to  their  respective  ages,  as  is 
possessed  by  the  adult.     It  is  not  from  weakness  that  they  are 


556  DEGENERATION 

unable  to  walk,  but  because  their  nervous  system  has  not  yet 
learned  so  to  regulate  and  combine  the  activity  of  the  different 

f roups  of  muscles,  as  to  produce  a  purposive  movement, 
nfants  cannot  yet  '  co-ordinate.'  Incapacity  of  co-ordination 
of  muscular  activity  is  called  by  medical  science  ataxy.  Hence 
in  infants  this  is  the  natural  and  healthy  condition.  But  ataxy 
precisely  is  a  serious  disease  when  it  appears  in  adults,  as  the 
chief  symptom  of  inflammation  of  the  spinal  cord.  The 
identity  of  the  ataxy  of  spinal  disease  with  healthy  infantine 
ataxy  is  so  complete  that  Dr.  S.  Frenkel*  was  able  to  found 
upon  it  a  treatment  of  spinal  ataxy,  which  consisted,  essen- 
tially, in  teaching  the  patients  anew,  like  children,  to  walk  and 
stand.  It  is  seen,  then,  that  a  state  may  be  at  the  same  time 
diseased  and  yet  the  mere  return  to  what  was  primitively  a 
perfectly  healthy  state  of  things ;  and  it  was  with  culpable 
frivolity  that  Lombroso  was  reproached  with  contradiction 
because  he  saw  in  criminal  instincts  at  once  degeneracy  and 
atavism.  The  disease  of  degeneracy  consists  precisely  in  the 
fact  that  the  degenerate  organism  has  not  the  power  to  mount 
to  the  height  of  evolution  already  attained  by  the  species,  but 
stops  on  the  way  at  an  earlier  or  later  point.  The  relapse  of 
the  degenerate  may  reach  to  the  most  stupendous  depth.  As,  in 
reverting  to  the  cleavage  of  the  superior  maxillary  peculiar  to 
insects  with  sextuple  lips,  he  sinks  somatically  to  the  level  of 
fishes,  nay  to  that  of  the  arthropoda,  or,  even  further,  to  that 
of  rhizopods  not  yet  sexually  differentiated ;  as  by  fistulse  of 
the  neck  he  reverts  to  the  branchiae  of  the  lowest  fishes,  the 
selacious;  or  by  excess  in  the  number  of  fingers  (polydactylia) 
to  the  multiple-rayed  fins  of  fishes,  perhaps  even  to  the  bristles 
of  worms  ;  or,  by  hermaphrodism,  to  the  asexuality  of  rhizopods 
— so  in  the  most  favourable  case,  as  a  higher  degenerate,  he 
renews  intellectually  the  type  of  the  primitive  man  of  the  most 
remote  Stone  Age ;  or,  in  the  worst  case,  as  an  idiot,  that  of 
an  animal  far  anterior  to  man. 

This  is  the  subject  in  regard  to  which  it  is  our  duty  untiringly 
and  by  every  means  to  enlighten  the  weak  in  judgment,  and 
the  inexperienced.  The  fine  names  appropriated  to  themselves 
by  degenerates,  their  imitators,  and  their  critical  hirelings,  are 
lies  and  deceit.  They  are  not  the  future,  but  an  immeasurably 
remote  past.  They  are  not  progress,  but  the  most  appalling 
reaction.  They  are  not  liberty,  but  the  most  disgraceful 
slavery.  They  are  not  youth  and  the  dawn,  but  the  most 
exhausted  senility,  the  starless  winter  night,  the  grave  and 
corruption. 

It  is  the  sacred  duty  of  all  healthy  and  moral  men  to  take 

*  Dr.  S.  Frenkel,  'Die  Therapie  atactischer  Bewegungstorungen,'  Mutt' 
cliener  medizinische  Wochenschift,  Nr.  52.     1892. 


THE  TWENTIETH.  CENTURY  557 

part  in  the  work  of  protecting  and  saving  those  who  are  not 
already  too  deeply  diseased.  Only  by  each  individual  doing 
his  duty  will  it  be  possible  to  dam  up  the  invading  mental 
malady.  It  is  not  seemly  simply  to  shrug  the  shoulders  and 
smile  contemptuously.  While  the  easy-going  console  them- 
selves by  saying,  *  No  rational  being  takes  this  idiocy  seriously,' 
madness  and  crime  are  doing  their  work  and  poisoning  a  whole 
generation. 

Mystics,  but  especially  ego-maniacs  and  filthy  pseudo-reaHsts, 
are  enemies  to  society  of  the  direst  kind.  Society  must  un- 
conditionally defend  itself  against  them.  Whoever  believes 
with  me  that  society  is  the  natural  organic  form  of  humanity, 
in  which  alone  it  can  exist,  prosper,  and  continue  to  develop 
itself  to  higher  destinies ;  whoever  looks  upon  civilization  as  a 
goocj,  having  value  and  deserving  to  be  defended,  must  merci- 
lessl}'  crush  under  his  thumb  the  anti-social  vermin.  To  him 
who,  with  Nietzsche,  is  enthusiastic  over  the  '  freely-roving, 
lusting  beast  of  prey,'  we  cry,  *  Get  you  gone  from  civilization  ! 
Rove  far  from  us  !  Be  a  lusting  beast  of  prey  in  the  desert  ! 
Satisfy  yourself!  Level  your  roads,  build  your  huts,  clothe 
and  feed  yourself  as  you  can  !  Our  streets  and  our  houses  are 
not  built  for  you  ;  our  looms  have  no  stuffs  for  you  ;  our  fields 
are  not  tilled  for  you.  All  our  labour  is  performed  by  men 
who  esteem  each  other,  have  consideration  for  each  other, 
mutually  aid  each  other,  and  know  how  to  curb  their  selfish- 
ness for  the  general  good.  There  is  no  place  among  us  for 
the  lusting  beast  of  prey;  and  if  you  dare  return  to  us,  we 
will  pitilessly  beat  you  to  death  with  clubs.' 

And  still  more  determined  must  the  resistance  be  to  the 
filth-loving  herd  of  swine,  the  professional  pornographists. 
These  have  no  claim  to  the  measure  of  pity  which  may  still  be 
extended  to  degenerates  properly  so  called,  as  invalids  ;  for 
they  have  freely  chosen  their  vile  trade,  and  prosecute  it  from 
cupidity,  vanity,  and  hatred  of  labour.  The  systematic  incita- 
tion  to  lasciviousness  causes  the  gravest  injury  to  the  bodily 
and  mental  health  of  individuals,  and  a  society  composed  of 
individuals  sexually  over-stimulated,  knowing  no  longer  any 
self-control,  any  discipline,  any  shame,  marches  to  its  certain 
ruin,  because  it  is  too  worn  out  and  flaccid  to  perform  great 
tasks.  The  pornographist  poisons  the  springs  whence  flows 
the  life  of  future  generations.  No  task  of  civilization  has  been 
so  painfully  laborious  as  the  subjugation  of  lasciviousness. 
The  pornographist  would  take  from  us  the  fruit  of  this,  the 
hardest  struggle  of  humanity.  To  him  we  must  show  no 
mercy. 

The  police  cannot  aid  us.  The  public  prosecutor  and 
criminal  judge  are  not  the  proper  protectors  of  society  against 


558  DEGENERATION 

crime  committed  with  pen  and  crayon.  They  infuse  into  their 
mode  of  proceeding  too  much  consideration  for  interests  not 
always,  not  necessarily,  those  of  cultivated  and  moral  men. 
The  policeman  is  so  often  compelled  to  intervene  in  the 
service  of  a  privileged  class,  of  the  insupportable  arrogance  of 
administrations,  of  the  assumption  of  infallibility  of  ministers 
and  other  government  officials  of  the  most  unworthy  byzantism 
and  of  the  most  stupid  superstition,  that  he  does  not  dishonour 
the  man  on  whose  shoulder  he  lays  his  heavy  hand.  Hence  it 
comes  to  this,  that  the  pornographist  must  be  branded  with 
infamy.  But  the  punitive  sentence  of  a  judge  does  not  with 
certainty  have  this  effect. 

The  condemnation  of  works  trading  on  unchastity  must 
emanate  from  men  of  whose  freedom  from  prejudice  and  free- 
dom of  mind,  intelligence  and  independence,  no  one  entertains 
a  doubt.  The  word  of  such  men  would  be  of  great  weight 
among  the  people.  There  already  exists  an  *  Association  of 
Men  for  the  Suppression  of  Immorality.'  Unfortunately  it 
allows  itself  to  be  guided  not  only  by  solicitude  for  the  moral 
health  and  purity  of  the  multitude,  and  especially  of  the  young, 
but  by  considerations  which  to  the  majority  of  the  people 
seem  to  be  prejudices.  The  association  pursues  disbelief 
almost  more  than  immorality.  An  outspoken  word  against 
revelation  or  the  Church  inspires  this  association  with  as 
much  horror  as  an  act  of  obscenity.  To  this  narrow-minded 
confessionalism  is  it  due  that  its  work  is  less  rich  in  blessing 
than  it  might  be.  But  in  spite  of  this,  we  can  take  this 
*  Association  of  Men '  as  a  pattern.  Let  us  do  what  it  does, 
but  without  mummeries.  Here  is  a  great  and  grateful  task, 
e.g.,  for  the  new  '  Society  for  Ethical  Culture '  of  Berlin : 
Let  it  constitute  itself  the  voluntary  guardian  of  the  peoples 
morality.  Doubtless  the  pornographists  will  attempt  to  turn  it 
into  ridicule.  But  the  scorn  will  soon  enough  stick  in  their 
own  throats.  An  association  composed  of  the  people's  leaders 
and  instructors,  professors,  authors,  members  of  Parliament, 
judges,  high  functionaries,  has  the  power  to  exercise  an  irre- 
sistible boycott.  Let  the  '  Society  for  Ethical  Culture  '  under- 
take to  examine  into  the  morality  of  artistic  and  literary 
productions.  Its  composition  would  be  a  guarantee  that  the 
examination  would  not  be  narrow-minded,  not  prudish,  and 
not  canting.  Its  members  have  sufficient  culture  and  taste  to 
distinguish  the  thoughtlessness  of  a  morally  healthy  artist  from 
the  vile  speculation  of  a  scribbling  ruffian.  When  such  a 
society,  which  would  be  joined  by  those  men  from  the  people 
who  are  the  best  fitted  for  this  task,  should,  after  serious  in- 
vestigation and  in  the  consciousness  of  a  heavy  responsibility, 
say  of  a  man,  *  He  is  a  criminal !'  and  of  a  work,  *  It  is  a 


THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY  559 

disgrace  to  our  nation  !'  work  and  man  would  be  annihilated. 
No  respectable  bookseller  would  keep  the  condemned  book  ; 
no  respectable  paper  would  mention  it,  or  give  the  author 
access  to  its  columns  ;  no  respectable  family  would  permit  the 
branded  work  to  be  in  their  house  ;  and  the  wholesome  dread 
of  this  fate  would  very  soon  prevent  the  appearance  of  such 
books  as  Bahr's  Gute  Schule,  and  would  dishabituate  the 
*  realists '  from  parading  a  condemnation  based  on  a  crime 
against  morality  as  a  mark  of  distinction. 

Medical  specialists  of  insanity  have  likewise  failed  to  under- 
stand their  duty.  It  is  time  for  them  to  come  to  the  front. 
'  It  is  a  prejudice,'  Bianchi  most  justly  says,*  *  to  believe  that 
psychiatry  must  be  enclosed  within  a  sanctuary  like  that  at 
Mecca.'  It  is  no  doubt  meritorious  to  indurate  sections  of 
the  spinal  cord  in  chromic  acid,  and  tint  them  in  a  neutro- 
phyllic  solution,  but  this  should  not  exhaust  the  activity  of  a 
professor  of  psychiatry.  Neither  is  it  sufficient  that  he  should 
in  addition  give  a  few  lectures  to  jurists,  and  publish  observa- 
tions in  technical  journals.  Let  him  speak  to  the  mass  of 
cultivated  persons  who  are  neither  physicians  nor  learned  in 
law.  Let  him  enlighten  them  in  general  publications  and  in 
accessible  conferences  concerning  the  leading  facts  in  mental 
therapeutics.  Let  him  show  them  the  mental  derangement  of 
degenerate  artists  and  authors,  and  teach  them  that  the  works 
in  fashion  are  written  and  painted  delirium.  In  all  other 
branches  of  medical  science  it  is  discerned  that  hygiene  is  of 
more  importance  than  therapeutics,  and  that  the  public  health 
has  much  more  to  expect  from  prophylactics  than  from  treat- 
ment. With  us  in  Germany  the  psychiatrist  alone  fails  as 
yet  to  concern  himself  with  the  hygiene  of  the  mmd.  It  is 
time  that  he  should  practise  his  profession  in  this  direction 
also.  A  Maudsley  in  England,  a  Charcot,  a  Magnan  in 
France,  a  Lombroso,  a  Tonnini  in  Italy,  have  brought  to  vast 
circles  of  the  people  an  understanding  of  the  obscure  pheno- 
mena in  the  life  of  the  mind,  and  disseminated  knowledge 
which  would  make  it  impossible  in  those  countries  for  pro- 
nounced lunatics  with  the  mania  for  persecution  to  gain  an 
influence  over  hundreds  of  thousands  of  electoral  citizens,-f- 
even  if  it  could  not  prevent  the  coming  into  fashion  of  the 
degenerate  art.  In  Germany  alone  no  psychiatrist  has  as  yet 
followed  this  example.  It  is  time  to  atone  for  this  negligence. 
Popularized    expositions    from    the    pens    of    experts    whose 

*  A.  G.  Bianchi,  La  Patologia  del  Genie  e  gli  sciertziaii  Italiani.  Milano, 
1892,  p.  79. 

t  Allusion  is  here  made  to  the  political  influence  exercised  in  a  number  of 
German  electoral  districts  by  the  anti-Semite  Passchen,  a  proved  lunatic, 
with  a  mania  for  persecution. — Translator. 


56o  DEGENERATION 

prominent  official  status  would  recommend  them  to  the  reader 
would  restrain  many  healthy  spirits  from  affiliating  themselves 
with  degenerate  tendencies. 

Such  is  the  treatment  of  the  disease  of  the  age  which  I  hold 
to  be  efficacious  :  Characterization  of  the  leading  degenerates 
as  mentally  diseased  ;  unmasking  and  stigmatizing  of  their 
imitators  as  enemies  to  society ;  cautioning  the  public  against 
the  lies  of  these  parasites. 

We  in  particular,  who  have  made  it  our  life's  task  to 
combat  antiquated  superstition,  to  spread  enlightenment,  to 
demolish  historical  ruins  and  remove  their  rubbish,  to  defend 
the  freedom  of  the  individual  against  State  oppression  and 
the  mechanical  routine  of  the  Philistine  ;  we  must  resolutely 
set  ourselves  in  opposition  to  the  miserable  mongers  who 
seize  upon  our  dearest  watchwords,  with  which  to  entrap  the 
innocent.  The  '  freedom  '  and  '  modernity,'  the  *  progress  ' 
and  'truth,'  of  these  fellows  are  not  ours.  We  have  nothing 
in  common  with  them.  They  wish  for  self-indulgence;  we 
wish  for  work.  They  wish  to  drown  consciousness  in  the 
unconscious ;  we  wish  to  strengthen  and  enrich  consciousness. 
They  wish  for  evasive  ideation  and  babble  ;  we  wish  for 
attention,  observation,  and  knowledge.  The  criterion  by 
which  true  moderns  may  be  recognised  and  distinguished  from 
impostors  calling  themselves  moderns  may  be  this  :  Whoever 
preaches  absence  of  discipline  is  an  enemy  of  progress  ;  and 
whoever  worships  his  '  I  '  is  an  enemy  to  society.  Society  has 
for  its  first  premise,  neighbourly  love  and  capacity  for  self- 
sacrifice  ;  and  progress  is  the  effect  of  an  ever  more  rigorous 
subjugation  of  the  beast  in  man,  of  an  ever  tenser  self-restraint, 
an  ever  keener  sense  of  duty  and  responsibility.  The  emanci- 
pation for  which  we  are  striving  is  of  the  judgment,  not  of  the 
appetites.  In  the  profoundly  penetrating  words  of  Scripture 
(Matt.  v.  17),  'Think  not  that  I  am  come  to  destroy  the  law, 
or  the  prophets ;  I  am  not  come  to  destroy,  but  to  fulfil." 


INDEX 


Action,  degenerates  disinclined  to,  20. 

Adaptation,  lacking  in  egomaniacs,  261  ; 
results  of  this  lack,  263  ;  lack  in  Ibsen, 
398  ;  lack  will  cause  degenerates  to 
pass  away,  540. 

^stheticism,  promoters  are  Decadents, 
24 ;  a  manifestation  of  degeneration 
and  hysteria,  43  ;  doctrine  set  forth  by 
Wilde,  320  ;  criteria  of  art,  322  ;  exal- 
tation of  artistic  activity,  331  ;  sum- 
mary on  its  sophisms,  336. 

Anarchists,  degeneracy,  22. 

Anglo-Saxon  race,  desire  for  knowledge, 
75  ;  religious  character  of  its  degenera- 
tion, 76  ;  demands  definite  statements. 

Animals,  excessive  love,  in  degenerates, 

315.. 

Aquarium,  in  A  Heboid's,  304. 

Art,  fin-de-siecle,  11  ;  effects  of  defective 
vision  in  painters,  27  ;  formation  of 
schools  by  degenerates,  29 ;  pre-Ra- 
phaelite  movement,  69,  77  ;  Ruskin 
and  his  theories,  77-81  ;  bad  drawing 
of  old  masters,  81  ;  precision  in  details 
introduced  by  the  pre-Raphaelites,  83  ; 
religious  faith  of  the  old  masters,  84  ; 
vulgarising  according  to  the  Decadents, 
306  ;  influence  on  life,  321  ;  true  na- 
ture, 322  ;  emotion  the  real  source, 
324  ;  objective  aim,  324  ;  morbid  emo- 
tions not  admissible,  326  ;  morality  not 
the  only  criterion,  327  ;  distinction  be- 
tween form  and  content,  329 ;  rank 
and  honours,  332  ;  a  means  of  acquir- 
ing knowledge,  333  ;  must  be  moral, 
334  ;  relation  to  reality,  335  ;  based  on 
emotion,  475  ;  future,  542  ;  no  likeli- 
hood of  new  forms,  544  ;  will  not  be 
scientific,  548  ;  increased  rivalry  of 
realism  and  romanticism,  549  ;  possi- 
bility that  all  is  morbid,  552. 

Attention,  nature,  52  ;  physiological  the- 
ory, 53  ;  value,  55  ;  defective  in  de- 
generates, 56  ;  absent  in  idiots,  64 ; 
lack  illustrated  in  works  of  the  pre- 
Raphaelites,  83. 

Attraction  and  repulsion  in  nature,  280. 


Baboon,  heroic,  428. 

Bahr,  Hermann,  his  gute  Skhule  exam- 
ined, 519-523. 

Balzac,  Honore  de,  use  of  the  milieu 
theory,  488. 

Banville,  Theodore  de,  exaltation  of 
rhymes,  269. 

Barbey  d'Aurevilly,  fabulous  genealogy, 
296  ;  worship  of  the  devil,  297. 

Barrfes,  Maurice,  career  and  writings, 
310  ;  his  typical  young  man,  31 1  ;  his 
L' Ennemi  des  Lois,  314  ;  his  Jardin 
de  Berenice,  314. 

Baudelaire,  Charles,  praise  of  Parnassi- 
anism,  271  ;  denies  that  poetry  should 
teach  morality,  273  ;  ascribes  a  devilish 
tendency  to  modern  art,  275  ;  charac- 
teristics, 285,  294-296  ;  his  Fleurs  du 
Mai,  286-294  ;  followers,  296  ;  agree- 
ment with  Nietzsche,  445. 

Beast,  blond,  of  Nietzsche,  421,  428. 

Beauty  coincident  with  morality,  328. 

Bellamy,  Edward,  his  Looking  Backward 
outside  art,  546. 

Berkeley,    Bishop,    idealism    criticised, 

Bismarck,  Prince,  dominating  personali- 
ty, 470. 
Bleibtreu,  Karl,  characteristics,  510. 
Books,  possible  character  in  the  future, 

539- 

Bourget,  Paul,  d&fence  of  the  Decadents, 
279  ;  praise  of  Baudelaire,  294  ;  de- 
fines decadence,  301. 

Brain,  nature  of  its  action,  46  ;  action 
for  attention,  53;  defective  and  ex- 
cessive sensitivity,  61  ;  domination  of 
the  organism,  409. 

Brandes,  George,  pernicious  teachings, 
356 ;  laudation  of  Ibsen,  357  ;  an 
apostle  of  Nietzsche,  454. 

Brentano,  Franz,  explanation  of  fond- 
ness for  tragedy,  276. 

Bric-A-brac,  rage  for,  27. 

Brown,  Madox,  a  pre  -  Raphaelite, 
70. 

Bruneti^re,  Ferdinand,  criticism  of  the 
Parnassians,  272. 


36 


561 


562 


INDEX. 


Charity,  injudicious,  156;  Tolstoi's  per- 
verse, 157. 

Chorinsky,  Count,  trial  for  murder,  16,  n. 

Civilisation,  race  will  overtake,  541  ;  or 
will  partly  disregard,  542. 

CoUinson,  James,  a  pre-Raphaelite,  69. 

Colour,  defective  sense  in  hysteria,  28  ; 
connected  with  sound  by  the  Instru- 
mentalists, 139  ;  association  with  sound 
in  various  persons,  140. 

Conscience,  according  to  Nietzsche,  429  ; 
according  to  Darwin,  429,  n. 

Coprolalia,  in  Zola,  499. 

Criminal  family,  French,  history  used  by 
Zola,  496. 

Cure  for  degeneracy,  possibility,  550 ; 
duty  of  the  sane  to  undertake,  556  ; 
summary  of  measures,  560. 

Dante,  Alighieri,  no  degeneracy  in  his 
conceptions,  91. 

Decadence,  Gautier's  version,  299  ;  Bau- 
delaire's version,  300  ;  requires  a  spe- 
cial language,  300  ;  defined  by  Paul 
Bourget,  301  ;  its  ideal  man,  309. 

Decadents,  an  early  name  of  the  Sym- 
bolists, lOI. 

Demi-monde,  changed  meaning,  5. 

Description,  proper  use,  483-485. 

Destructiveness,  normal  and  abnormal, 
264. 

Development,  arrested,  in  the  degener- 
ate, 283. 

Diabolism,  cultivated  by  Villiers  and 
Barbey,  296. 

Diseases  of  the  present,  40. 

Doubt,  insanity,  397. 

Drama,  fin-de-siecle,  14. 

Dress,  eccentricity,  318  ;  psychopathic 
aspect,  452. 

Du  Bois-Reymond,  Emil,  his  Ignorabi- 
mus  criticised,  107. 

Dumas,  Alexandre,  a  French  Romanti- 
cist, 75. 

Dusk  of  the  Nations,  a  recent  idea,  2  ; 
again  defined,  43. 

Ecstasy,  nature,  63. 

Egoism,  a  source  of  moral  insanity,  18. 

Ego-mania,  distinguished  from  egoism, 
243  ;  prominent  in  degenerates,  244, 
253;  involves  crowding  out  not-I  from 
consciousness,  256  ;  distinguished  from 
megalomania,  257  ;  causes  immorality, 
259 ;  manifestations  in  different  social 
classes,  260 ;  prevents  adaptation  to 
surroundings,  261  ;  manifestations  in 
Jacobins,  264  ;  general  features,  265  ; 
in  the  writings  of  Barr^s,  311  ;  of 
Ibsen,  396;  dangerous  to  society,  557^ 

Emotionalism,  a  sign  of  degeneracy,  19 . 


cause  of  various  "  phobias  "  and  "  ma- 
nias," 242. 

Encyclopaedists,  French,  mistakes,  71. 

Environment,  influence  as  a  literary  de- 
vice, 486-489. 

Equality,  in  France,  112;  an  unnatural 
doctrine,  472. 

Eroticism,  connection  with  mysticism, 
61  ;  relation  to  ecstasy,  63  ;  of  Paul 
Verlaine,  120;  of  Wagner,  180,  188; 
in  Peladan's  writings,  222 ;  of  Whit- 
man, 231  ;  of  Baudelaire,  286  ;  of 
Huysmans,  302 ;  erudition  of  Diabo- 
lists,  309 ;  in  the  writings  of  Barres, 
314;  general  among  degenerates,  451  ; 
in  Zola,  500 ;  a  strange  feature  in 
Italy,  505  ;  in  Young-German  realism, 
517  ;  in  Bahr,  521  ;  possible  future 
development,  538. 

Evil,  why  it  is  enjoyed,  275-278 ;  when 
enjoyed  by  the  sane,  283. 

Fashions,  fin-de-siecle,  7-9. 

Fatigue,  a  cause  of  hysteria,  36  ;  pro- 
duced by  modern  activities,  37-43. 

Fere,  Charles,  regards  hysteria  as  due 
to  fatigue,  36. 

Fin-de-sihle,  meaning,  1-6 ;  illustra- 
tions, 3,  4 ;  a  chaotic  period,  5  ;  mid- 
dle and  lower  classes  not  much  affected, 
7  ;  fashions,  7-9  ;  furnishing,  10  ;  nerv- 
ous excitement  aimed  at,  9,  II  ;  art, 
II  ;  music,  12  ;  books,  13  ;  drama,  14  ; 
manifestations,  different  views,  15  ; 
hysterical  symptoms,  26 ;  again  de- 
fined, 43. 

Flaubert,  Gustave,  Parnassian  views,  267  ; 
use  of  the  rnilieu  theory,  488  ;  pos- 
sible depiction  of  Zola,  491. 

Furnishing,  fin-de-sihle,  10. 

Future,  conditions  of  life  if  degeneracy 
increases,  537-540  ;  not  likely  to  come 
to  this,  540. 

Gautier,  Thdophile,  a  French  Romanti- 
cist, 75  ;  Parnassian  views,  267  ;  char- 
acteristics, 284. 

Genius,  compared  with  insanity,  23. 

German  language,  period  of  decadence, 
301. 

Germany,  character  of  hysteria,  208  ; 
accused  of  swagger  by  Nietzsche,  470  ; 
leadership  in  literature,  507  ;  litera- 
ture stagnant  after  1870,  533  ;  lack  of 
living  literary  leaders,  534. 

Goncourt,  Edmond  and  Jules  de,  exam- 
ple of  irnpressionism,  485. 

Goudeau,  Emile,  an  original  Symbolist, 
100. 

Gourmont,  R^my  de,  pronounces  real- 
ism dead,  473. 


INDEX. 


563 


Graphomania,  definition,  18. 
Greenaway,  Kate,  affected  drawing,  8. 
Griesinger,    Wilhelm,   quoted    on    rapid 
thought   in   some   forms   of  insanity, 

457- 
Grindberg,  efforts  to  combat  Ibsen,  413. 
Guyau,    criticism    on    the    Parnassians, 

269. 

Harancourt,  Edmond,  an  original  Sym- 
bolist, 100. 

Hauptmann,  Gerhart,  his  writings  thus 
far,  523-530  ;  service  to  wage-workers, 
547. 

Holz,  Arno,  a  Young-German  realist, 
530. 

Hugo,  Victor,  a  French  Romanticist,  74  ; 
compared  with  Zola,  492-494. 

Hunt,  Holman,  an  original  pre-Raphael- 
ite,  69;  his  Shadow  of  the  Cfoss,  85. 

Huysmans,  Joris  Karl,  view  of  Gautier, 
285  ;  pictures  Baudelairism,  298  ;  on 
Latin  of  the  Later  Empire,  300;  career, 
302 ;  his  A  Rebours,  302—308  ;  his  La- 
bas,  308  ;  agreement  with  Nietzsche, 
443,  444  ;  desertion  from  Zola,  474. 

Hydropaths,  an  early  name  of  the  Sym- 
bolists, 100. 

Hypnotism,  an  example  and  a  theory, 
III  ;  used  as  a  prop  for  magic,  216  ; 
not  supernatural,  217. 

Hysteria,  extraordinary  emotionalism, 
25  ;  self-love  in,  26  ;  defective  vision, 
27-29  ;  makes  followers  of  degenerate 
schools,  32  ;  due  to  fatigue,  36  ;  pro- 
duced by  war,  207  ;  form  in  Germany, 
208  ;  nature  of  anaesthesia,  256  ;  did 
not  originate  in  this  age,  537. 

I,  how  consciousness  of,  is  formed,  244  ; 
relation  to  the  not-I,  245-249  ;  psycho- 
physiological view,  246  ;  development 
in  the  individual,  251. 

Ibsen,  Henrik,  illustration  from,  3  ;  de- 
thrones Goethe,  14  ;  characteristics, 
338  ;  his  technique  of  fireworks,  339 ; 
his  dramas  examined,  340-413  ;  power 
of  sketching  with  a  few  strokes,  340  ; 
his  female  Sancho  Panza,  341  ;  autom- 
atism of  chief  characters,  342  ;  im- 
probable incidents,  344-350 ;  crude 
science,  350  ;  heredity  a  hobby,  350— 
353 ;  medical  errors,  353  ;  three  re- 
ligious ideas,  357  ;  idea  of  original  sin, 
358  ;  idea  of  confession,  359-363 ; 
idea  of  self-sacrifice,  363-368  ;  chaotic 
thought,  369  ;  doctrine  of  living  out 
one's  life,  369,  408  ;  presentation  of 
egoism,  372  ;  alleged  thirst  for  truth, 
373-375  ;  idea  of  true  marriage,  375- 
380  ;  various  absurdities,  380-384  ;  ir- 


relevant speeches,  384-387  ;  meaning- 
less phrases,  387-393,  407  ;  secret  of 
his  following,  394 ;  his  symbolism, 
395  ;  ego-mania,  396  ;  lack  of  adapta- 
tion, 398  ;  lack  of  originality,  399  ;  two 
stock  characters,  400-405  ;  character- 
istics summarized,  405-415  ;  represen- 
tations of  women,  412-414  ;  agreement 
with  Nietzsche,  442,  444,  445. 

Imitation,  in  nervous  disease  and  fatigue, 
323  ;   a  medium  of  art,  324. 

Impressionism,  out  of  place  in  literature, 
485-. 

Impulsiveness,  a  source  of  moral  insan- 
ity, 18. 

Insanity,  simulation,  295  ;  rapid  thought 
a  symptom,  457. 

Instinct,  hurtful  domination,  312. 

Jacobinism,   Taine's  two  sources,  263  ; 

lack  of  adaptability  a  third,  264. 
Jones,  Burne,  a  pre-Raphaelite,  70. 

Kaatz,  Hugo,  defends  Nietzsche,  436  ; 
claims  wide  diffusion  of  his  philoso- 
phy, 453- 

Krafft-Ebing,  Dr.  von,  quoted  on  rapid- 
ity of  thought  in  mania,  458. 

Language,  limitations,  67. 

Latin,  of  the  later  Empire,  300. 

Liberty,  false,  of  degenerates,  554. 

Life,  fatiguing  activities  of  the  present 
time,  37-43  ;  object,  149-152. 

Liquor  symphonies,  in  A  Rebours,  304. 

Literature,  fin-de-siecle  books,  13  ;  for- 
mation of  schools  by  degenerates,  31  ; 
moods  reflected  in  the  external  world, 
97  ;  of  the  future,  542  ;  no  likelihood 
of  new  forms,  544  ;  will  not  be  scien- 
tific, 54S  ;  rivalry  of  realism  and  ro- 
manticism to  increase,  549. 

Lombroso,  Dr.  Cesare,  quoted,  17  et  seq. 

Louis  II.  of  Bavaria,  founds  the  Wagner 
cult,  206  ;  as  regarded  by  Barr^s,  316. 

Maeterlinck,  Maurice,  poetry  illustrating 
incoherent  mysticism,  227-229 ;  few 
ideas,  229 ;  plays,  232-239  ;  regurgi- 
tation of  Shakespeare,  235  ;  celebrity, 
how  made,  239. 

Mallarme,  St^phane,  career  as  a  Symbol- 
ist, 128-131. 

Mania,  special  forms  not  isolated,  242. 

Marriage,  value  to  society,  414. 

Masochism,  definition,  413,  n.,  414. 

Mattoids,  definition,  18. 

Megalomania,  distinguished  from  ego- 
mania, 257  ;  in  Nietzsche,  465. 

Melancholy,  a  sign  of  degeneracy,  19. 

Memory,  nature,  47-49  ;  function,  51. 


564 


INDEX. 


Mendes,  Catulle,  denies  that  the  Parnas- 
sians are  a  school,  266  ;  liis  Parnassian 
poem  Recapitulation,  268  ;  his  La  seule 
Douceur,  270  ;  on  impassivity  of  the 
Parnassians,  271. 

Metaphysics,  never  in  a  dilemma,  107. 

Millais,  John  E.,  an  original  pre-Ra- 
phaelite,  69. 

Milieu,  theory,  486  ;  misused  by  authors, 
487-489  ;  employment  by  Haupt- 
mann,  523. 

Mind,  nature  of  action,  46. 

Monomania,  existence  denied,  242. 

Morality,  sense  lacking  in  degenerates, 
18 ;  perverted,  259 ;  ranked  below 
taste  by  the  ^Esthetes,  322  ;  not  the 
only  criterion  of  art,  327  ;  coincidence 
with  beauty,  328  ;  doctrine  of  Nietz- 
sche, 421  ;  of  masters  and  slaves  ac- 
cording to  Nietzsche,  422  ;  Christian, 
anticipated  in  Buddhism,  427. 

Moreas,  Jean,  a  Symbolist,  loi  ;  career, 

131-133- 

Morel,  Dr.  B.  A.,  first  defined  degen- 
eracy, 16  ;  ascribes  degeneracy  to 
poisoning,  34. 

Morice,  Charles,  a  Symbolist,  loi ;  de- 
scribes his  cult,  102 ;  arraigns  sci- 
ence, 105  ;  account  of  Mallarme,  129  ; 
his  Littdrature  de  tout-a-Vheure,  136. 

Morris,  William,  a  pre-Raphaelite,  70 ; 
nature  of  his  mysticism,  98  ;  of  no 
service  to  wage-workers,  547. 

Music,  Jitt-de-sikle,  12  ;  origin,  200  ;  na- 
ture of  the  symphony,  203. 

Musset,  Alfred  de,  a  French  Romanti- 
cist, 75. 

Mysticism,  a  sign  of  degeneracy,  22  ; 
what  it  is,  45  ;  the  condition  of  mind 
it   denotes,    57 ;    washed-out    diction, 

57  ;  thought  corresponds  to  language, 

58  ;  erotic  colouring,  61  ;  another 
form,  61  ;  habitual  to  mankind,  67  ; 
excessive  distinguished  from  normal, 
69  ;  produces  spiritualism,  214  ;  adapts 
its  form  to  prevailing  views,  218 ;  of 
Nietzsche,  467  ;  dangerous  to  society, 
557- 

Narcotics,  a  cause  of  degeneracy,  34,  41. 
Naturalism,    Zola's    word    for    realism, 

491. 
Nature,  indifference  to  ego-maniacs,  443. 
Neo-Catholicism,    due    to    degeneracy, 

III. 
Nervous  excitement,  a  fin-de-siecle  aim, 

9,  II. 
Nietzsche,  Friedrich,  the  philosopher  of 

ego-mania,  415  ;  characteristics,  416  ; 

specimens   of  commonplaces   and    of 

ravings,  418  ;  as  described  by  Kaatz, 


420  ;  moral  doctrine,  420-426  ;  views 
on  cruelty,  424  ;  criticism  of  his  an- 
thropological assertion,  426 ;  of  his 
historical  assertion,  427 ;  of  his  idea 
of  cruelty,  429 ;  of  his  philological 
argument,  429  ;  of  his  biological  ar- 
gument, 431  ;  talk  of  depth,  432  ; 
general  system  criticised,  432 ;  con- 
tradictions, 436-440;  ignorant  con- 
ceits, 440 ;  originality,  belief  of  his 
followers,  441  ;  borrowed  materials, 
442  ;  treatment  of  truth,  444 ;  agree- 
ment with  other  ego-maniacs,  442, 
443,  444,  445  ;  contradictions  of  Dr. 
Paul  Ree,  446  ;  examined  by  Tiirck, 
44S  ;  intellectual  perversion,  449  ;  Sa- 
dism, 450;  insanity,  452;  admirers 
and  imitators,  453-457,  469  ;  evidences 
of  mania,  458-468  ;  megalomania,  465  ; 
mysticism,  467  ;  Bismarckian  philoso- 
phy, 470  ;  his  success  a  disgrace  to 
Germany,  472. 

Observation,  requires   power  of   atten- 

tion,_55. 
Obsessions,  produce  aesthetic  schools,  30. 
Odours,  symphonies  in  A  Rebours,  305  ; 

erotic  stimulus,  500. 
Oniomania,  definition,  27. 

Pain,  natural  histoiy,  280-282. 

Parasite,  lowest  grade,  309  and  «. 

Parnassians,  origin  of  their  name,  266  ; 
cardinal  principles,  267  ;  doctrine  on 
rhymes,  269  ;  impassivity,  271  ;  depict 
more  than  the  average  of  depravity 
and  ugliness,  274  ;  impassivity  from 
aberration,  278  ;  defend  their  aberra- 
tion, 278 ;  descent  from  the  French 
romantic  school,  284. 

Paulhan,  Fr.,  explanation  of  enjoyment 
of  evil,  276,  277. 

P^ladan,  Josephin,  Assyrian  forms  and 
ceremonies,  2ig  ;  his  Comftient  on  de- 
vient  Mage,  220  ;  other  writings,  221 ; 
development  of  his  notions,  222  ;  his 
Vice  suprime,  297. 

Pessimism,  a  philosophic  form  of  ego- 
mania, 497. 

Philistine,  tastes,  7  ;  view  oi  fai-de-silcle 
manifestations,  15. 

Philosophy,  perpetual  role,  416. 

Physicians,  duty  to  the  public,  559. 

Poetry,  freedom  in  versification,  137  ; 
musical  requirements  of  the  Symbol- 
ists, 138 ;  Parnassians  deny  that  it 
need  have  a  moral  influence,  273  ; 
separation  of  form  aud  content  hardly 
possible,  330. 

Pornographists,  must  be  resisted,  557. 

Pre-Raphaelites,    origin    of    movement, 


INDEX. 


5^^5 


6g  ;  characteristics,  70,  77  ;  misunder- 
stood Ruskin,  81  ;  detractors  of  Ra- 
plrael,  82  ;  worlcs  illustrate  lack  of  at- 
tention, 83 ;  represent  emotions,  85  ; 
more  writers  than  artists,  86 ;  great 
influence  on  modern  English  poetry, 
99. 

Progress,  false,  of  degenerates,  555. 

Proletarian  tastes,  7. 

Punning,  characteristic  of  imbeciles,  65. 

Realism,  a  dead  tendency,  473  ;  mean- 
ing, 475  ;  inadmissible  in  art,  476- 
479  ;  its  own  unreality,  479  ;  harmful 
to  society,  557. 

Religion,  pursuit  by  the  Anglo-Saxon 
race,  76  ;  gives  a  bent  to  English  de- 
generacy, 76  ;  neo-Catholic  revival  in 
France,  104 ;  affected  by  French  par- 
venus, 112-115  ;  declared  outgrown, 
312 ;  three  ideas  in  Ibsen's  dramas, 
358._ 

Reverie,  predilection  of  degenerates, 
21. 

Rhyme,  exaltation  by  the  Parnassians, 
269. 

RoUinat,  Maurice,  an  original  symbol- 
ist, 100  ;  horrors  of  his  poetry,  224- 
226 ;  anguishmania,  226. 

Romanticism,  rise  in  Germany,  72  ;  na- 
ture, 73,  74  ;  French  origin,  73  ;  in 
England,  75  ;  followers  characterised 
as  children,  284. 

Rossetti,  Dante  Gabriel,  an  original  pre- 
Raphaelite,  69  ;  influenced  by  Dante, 
86  ;  his  Blessed Damozel  z^\2\y?>&&.,  87- 
91  ;  various  characteristics,  92  ;  pre- 
dilection for  refrains,  92  ;  use  of  dis- 
connected words,  94. 

Ruskin,  John,  mental  traits,  77  ;  views 
in  Modern  Painters,  78  ;  adopted  as 
a  leader  by  the  pre-Raphaelites,  79 ; 
faults  of  his  theory,  79 ;  self-contra- 
diction, 82. 

Sadism  defined,  450  and  n. 

Schlaf,  Johannes,  a  Young-German  real- 
ist, 530. 

Schlegel,  A.  W.,  a  German  Romanticist, 
73,  74- 

Science,  arraigned  by  the  Symbolists, 
105  ;  its  splendid  achievements,  106, 
109 ;  modest  claims,  108  ;  extrava- 
gant demands  upon,  109  ;  its  heroes, 
no. 

Sensation,  obtuseness  in  idiots,  254 ; 
pleasurable,  explained,  327. 

Shakespeare,  accurate  depictions  of  dis- 
ease, 354. 

Slang,  a  sign  of  degeneracy,  499. 

Smell,  capacity  of  the  sense,  503. 


Socialism,  in  Young-German  realism, 
518  ;  outside  art,  546. 

Sound,  associations  in  degenerate  writ- 
ings, 462. 

Speech,  limitations,  67. 

Spencer,  Herbert,  presumption  of  "  the 
Unknowable  "  criticised,  107  ;  theory 
of  the  origin  of  music,  200. 

Spiritualism,  in  England,  214;  in  Ger- 
many, 214  ;  in  France,  216. 

Stephens,  F.  G.,  a  pre-Raphaelite,  69. 

Stigmata  of  degeneracy,  physical,  16  ; 
mental,  17-24. 

Stimulants,  a  cause  of  degeneracy,  34, 

Stirner,  Max,  exaggerator  of  Hegel,  442. 

Stowe,  Mrs.  Harriet  Beecher,  service  in 
suppressing  slavery,  547. 

Swinburne,  Algernon  C.,  a  pre-Raphael- 
ite, 70  ;  a  degenerate  of  high  grade, 
94 ;  his  Kings  Daughter,  95  ;  use  of 
the  external  world,  gS  ;  has  followed 
many  models,  317. 

Symbolism,  origin,  100  ;  characteristics, 
loi  ;  habits  of  cultivators,  102  ;  suc- 
cess in  obtaining  notice,  103  ;  pious- 
ness, 104 ;  defined  by  its  disciples, 
115  ;  by  its  critics,  116  ;  analysis,  1 18  ; 
characteristics  of  Verlaine,  iig-128  ; 
of  Mallarme,  128-131  ;  of  Moreas, 
131-133  ;  minor  Symbolists,  133-135  ; 
its  prose,  136  ;  its  followers  demand 
freedom  in  French  versification,  137  ; 
requires  words  to  produce  musical  ef- 
fects, 138  ;  colour  craze  of  the  Instru- 
mentalists, 139  ;  further  claims,  143  ; 
Le  Roux's  view,  144  ;  agreement  of 
its  cultivators  with  the  Parnassians, 
270  ;  of  Ibsen,  395. 

Tailhade,  Laurent,  a  Symbolist,  loi. 
Taine,    Henri,  mode   of  accounting  for 

Jacobinism.  263. 
Taste,    as     affected     by     interest,    321 

and  n. 
Tennyson,  soundness  of  his  art,  99. 
Theatre-Libre,  relation  to  Zola's  school, 

,  505- 

Theology,  never  in  a  dilemma,  107. 

.Tolstoi,  Count  Leo,  character  of  his 
works,  145-147  ;  the  Kreutzer  Sonata, 
148,  160 ;  philosophy,  148-153  ;  pro- 
cess of  thought,  153  ;  impracticable 
ethics,  155  ;  ill-judged  charity,  157  ; 
theory  about  marriage,  160 ;  abuse  of 
science,  161  ;  doctrine  of  return  to 
Nature,  162  ;  summary  of  ideas,  164  ; 
Lowenfeld's  defence,  165  ;  symptoms 
of  degeneracy,  166  ;  admirable  frater- 
nity, 167 ;  attitude  towards  women, 
167  ;  cause  of  his  success,  169. 


566 


INDEX. 


Tovote,  Heinz,  his  Im  Liebesrausch  ex- 
amined, 512-519. 

Towns,  large,  produce  degeneracy,  35. 

Tragedy,  pleasure,  328. 

Tiirck,  Dr.  Hermann,  examination  of 
Nietzsche,  448  ;  comment  on  his  dis- 
ciples, 469. 

Turgenieff,  illustration  from,  3. 

Uhland,  his  Praise  of  Springs  88. 

Variation,  mode  of  producing,  261,  n. 

Verists,  followers  of  Zola,  505. 

Verlaine,  Paul,  career  as  a  Symbolist, 
1 19-128  ;  resembled  by  Whitman,  232. 

Villiers  de  ITsle-Adam,  fabulous  geneal- 
ogy, 296  ;  worship  of  the  devil,  297; 
his  Eve  future,  298. 

Wagner,  Richard,  not  admired  by  the 
Philistine,  7  ;  a  fn-de-siecle  favourite, 
12  ;  origin  of  his  cult,  171  ;  degenerate 
stigmata,  171  ;  his  Art-work  of  the 
Future,  172-176 ;  his  confused  thought, 
176-178  ;  anarchistic  teachings,  179  ; 
eroticism,  180, 188  ;  graphomania,  182; 
mysticism,  183;  his  notion  of  "re- 
demption," T83-186 ;  his  Parsifal, 
185-188  ;  representation  of  woman, 
188-191  ;  dependence  on  old  mate- 
rials, 191-194  ;  picturesque  imagina- 
tion, 194 ;  eminence  and  degeneracy 
as  a  musician,  195-205  ;  leit-7not{f 
theory,  197-199  ;  "  unending  melody  " 
theory,  199-202  ;  other  ideas  of  music, 
202-204 ;  career,  204-206,  208-213  ", 
influence  on  Peladan,  222  ;  his  music 
enjoyed  by  sexual  psychopaths,  452,  n. 

Whitman,  Walt,  mystical  madness,  230  ; 
characteristics,  232. 


Wilde,  Oscar,  eccenti-icities,  317  ;  char- 
acteristics, 319  ;  admiration  of  immo- 
rality, 320 ;  Eesthetic  doctrine,  320 ; 
agreement  with  Nietzsche,  442,  443. 

Woman,  attitude  of  the  normal  man  and 
of  the  degenerate  toward,  168  ;  as  rep- 
resented by  Wagner,  1S8  ;  as  repre- 
sented by  Ibsen,  412-414. 

Woolner,  Thomas,  a  pre-Raphaelite,  69. 

Words,  the  basis  of  false  hypotheses,  68. 

Young-German  realists,  not  properly  in 
scope  of  this  book,  506  ;  destiny,  509  ; 
founder  of  the  school,  510  ;  devices  to 
gain  standing,  511  ;  specimens  of  writ- 
ings examined,  512-530;  summary  of 
characteristics,  530-532 ;  injuries  to 
German  literature,  532. 

Youth,  of  degenerates,  really  senility, 
553- 

Zerbst,  Dr.  Max,  defence  of  Nietzsche, 
453./''- ;  imitation  of  Nietzsche,  455. 

Zola,  Emile,  his  style  gone  by,  13  ;  sym- 
bolism in  his  Assomoir,  98  ;  desertion 
by  disciples,  474  ;  originality  claimed 
for,  483,  486,  491  ;  "  slices  from  real 
life,"  489  ;  "  human  documents  "  and 
"  experimental  novels,"  489  ;  pretend- 
ed observation,  490  ;  misuse  of  ma- 
terials, 491  ;  resemblance  to  Victor 
Hugo,  492-494 ;  an  out-and-out  ro- 
manticist, 494-497  ;  pessimism,  497, 
498  ;  coarseness,  497,  499  ;  perverted 
sense  of  smell,  502  ;  success  due  to 
triviality  and  lasciviousness,  503  ;  two 
groups  in  his  school,  504-506  ;  of  no 
service  to  wage-workers,  547. 

ZoUner,  sheet-anchor  of  spiritualists, 
215. 


THE   END. 


D.   APPLETON   &   CO.'S   PUBLICATIONS. 


THE   ANTHROPOLOGICAL   SERIES 


"Will  be  hailed  with  delight   by  scholars  and  scientific   specialists,  and    it  will  be 

gladly  received  by  others  who  aspire  after  the  useful  knowledge  it  will  impart." New 

York  Home  Journal. 

NOW  READY. 
TJ/^O MAN'S    SHARE    IN   PRIMITIVE    CUITURE.      By 
^^    Otis  Tufton  Mason,  A.  M.,  Curator  of  the  Department  of  Ethnology 
in  the  United  States  National  Museum.     With  numerous  Illustrations. 
i2mo.     Cloth,  $1.75. 
"  A  most  interesting  resumi  of  the  revelations  which  science  has  made  concerning-  the 
habits  of  human  beings  in  primitive  times,  and  especially  as  to  the  place,  the  duties,  and  the 
customs  of  women." — Philadelphia  hiquirer. 

"A  highly  entertaining  and  instructive  book.  .  .  .  Prof.  Mason's  bright,  graceful  style 
must  do  much  to  awaken  a  lively  interest  in  a  study  that  has  heretofore  received  such  scant 
attention. " — Baltimore  American. 

"  The  special  charm  of  Mr.  Mason's  book  is  that  his  studies  are  based  mainly  upon  actually 
existing  types,  rather  than  upon  mere  tradition." — Philadelphia  Times. 

n^HE  P  YGMIES.  By  A.  de  Quatrefages,  late  Prof^sor  of 
-^  Anthropology  at  the  Museum  of  Natural-  History,  Paris.  With  nu- 
merous Illustrations.      i2mo.     Cloth,  $1.75. 

"  Probably  no  one  was  better  equipped  to  illustrate  the  general  subject  than  Quatrefages. 
While  constantly  occupied  upon  the  anatomical  and  osseous  phases  of  his  subject,  he  was  none 
the  less  well  acquainted  with  what  literature  and  history  had  to  say  concerning  the  pygmies. 
.  .  .  This  book  ought  to  be  in  every  divinity  school  in  which  man  as  well  as  God  is  studied, 
and  from  which  missionaries  go  out  to  convert  the  human  being  of  reality  and  not  the  man 
of  rhetoric  and  text-books." — Boston  Literary  World. 

"It  is  fortunate  that  American  students  of  anthropology  are  able  to  enjoy  as  luminous  a 
translation  of  this  notable  monograph  as  that  which  Prof.  Starr  now  submits  to  the  public." 
— Philadelphia  Press. 

"It  is  regarded  by  scholars  entitled  to  offer  an  opinion  as  one  of  the  half-dozen  most  im- 
portant works  of  an  anthropologist  whose  ethnographic  publications  numbered  nearly  one 
hundred." — Chicago  Evening  Post. 

y^HE  BEGINNINGS  OF  WRITING.  By  W.  J.  Hoffman, 
M.  D.  With  numerous  Illustrations.  i2mo.  Cloth,  $1.75. 
This  interesting  book  gives  a  most  attractive  account  of  the  rude  methods  employed  by 
primitive  man  for  recording  his  deeds.  The  earhest  writing  consists  of  pictographs  which 
were  traced  on  stone,  wood,  bone,  skins,  and  various  paperlike  substances.  Dr.  Hoffman 
shows  how  the  several  classes  of  symbols  used  in  these  records  are  to  be  interpreted,  and  traces 
the  growth  of  conventional  signs  up  to  syllabaries  and  alphabets — the  two  classes  of  signs 
employed  by  modern  peoples. 

IN    PREPARATION. 
THE  SOUTH  SEA   ISLANDERS.     By  Dr.  Schmeltz. 
THE  ZUNl.     By  Frank  Hamilton  Gushing. 
THE  AZTECS.     By  Mrs.  Zelia  Nuttall. 


New  York  :   D.  APPLETON  &  GO.,  72  Fifth  Avenue. 


D.   APPLETON    &   CO.'S   PUBLICATIONS. 


^HE  DAWN  OF  CIVILIZATION.  (Egypt  and  Chald^a.) 

By  Prof.  Maspero.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  Prof.  Sayce.     Translated  by 

M.    L.    McClure.  With   Maps   and   over    470   Illustrations.      4to. 
Cloth,  $7.50. 

This  volume  is  an  attempt  to  put  together  in  a  lucid  and  interesting  manner  all 
that  the  monuments  have  revealed  to  us  concerning  the  Earliest  civilization  of  Egypt 
and  Chaldaea.  The  results  of  archaeological  discovery,  accumulated  during  the  last 
thirty  years  or  so,  are  of  such  a  vast  and  comprehensive  character  that  none  but  a 
master  mind  could  marshal  them  in  true  historical  perspective.  Prof  Maspero  is 
perhaps  the  only  man  in  Europe  fitted  by  his  laborious  researches  and  great  scholar- 
ship to  undertake  such  a  task,  and  the  result  of  his  efforts  will  be  found  herein.  The . 
period  dealt  with  covers  the  history  of  Egypt  from  the  earliest  date  to  the  fourteenth 
dynasty,  and  that  of  Chaldsea  during  its  first  empire.  The  book  is  brought  up  to  the 
present  year,  and  deals  with  the  recent  discoveries  at  Koptos  and  Dahabur. 

^CHOOLS  AND  MASTERS  OF  SCULPTURE.  By  A.  G. 
Radcliffe,  author  of  "  Schools  and  Masters  of  Painting."  With  35 
full-page  Illustrations.      i2mo.     Cloth,  $3.00. 

Those  who  know  Miss  Radcliffe's  previous  work  will  require  no  commendation  of 
the  grasp  of  subject  and  thoroughness  of  treatment  shown  in  this.  In  addition  to  her 
popular  but  thorough  survey  of  the  history  of  sculpture  in  all  countries.  Miss  Radcliffe 
sketches  the  various  American  collections  of  casts,  and  explains  the  opportunities  for 
study  which  we  have  at  hand. 

J  IFE  OF  SIR  RICHARD  OWEN.    By  Rev.  Richard  Owen. 
-^      With  an  Introduction  by  T.  H,  HuXLEY.      i2mo.     Cloth,  $7.50. 

This  most  interesting  biography  of  the  famous  anatomist  offers  a  clear,  popular 
account  of  his  investigations  in  the  fields  of  comparative  anatomy  and  physiology, 
zoology,  palaeontology,  and  transcendental  anatomy  and  physiology.  In  a  sense  this 
work  offers  a  history  of  scientific  discovery  in  these  departments  for  half  a  century, 
while  in  addition  it  has  a  constant  personal  interest. 


D 


FAN  BUCKLAND.  The  Life  and  Correspondence  of  Wil- 
liam BucKLAND,  D,  D.,  F.  R.  S.,  sometime  Dean  of  Westminster, 
twice  President  of  the  Theological  Society,  and  first  President  of  the 
British  Association.  By  his  Daughter,  Mrs.  GORDON.  With  Portraits 
and  Illustrations.     8vo.     Cloth,  $3.50. 

The  personal  charm  vi^hich  invests  this  biography  of  the  great  geologist  enhances 
its  interest  for  the  general  reader,  while  his  relation  to  the  discussions  -of  religion 
and  science  add  a  peculiar  value  to  a  notable  biography. 


New  York:   D.  APPLETON  &  CO.,  72  Fifth  Avenue. 


L 


