I 


THEPELPHIG 

MAXIMS 

in' 

Ilfli^lJME 


**s 


/(170  (o 


L,TERATURE 


Tl53    0015071b 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 
in  2013 


http://archive.org/details/delphicmaximsinlOOwilk 


THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS  IN 
LITERATURE 


THE  UNIVERSITY  OF  CHICAGO  PRESS,  CHICAGO 

THE  BAKER  &  TAYLOR  CO.,  NEW  YORK;  THE  MACMILLAN  COMPANY  OF 
CANADA,  LIMITED,  TORONTO;  THE  CAMBRIDGE  UNIVERSITY  PRESS, 
LONDON;  THE  MARUZEN-KABUSHIKI-KAISHA,  TOKYO,  OSAKA,  KYOTO, 
FUKUOKA,    SENDAI;    THE    COMMERCIAL    PRESS,    LIMITED,    SHANGHAI 


Tablei  »  Wall  of  Harness  Memoeial  Building  at 
Yale  University  (See  p.  213) 


FN 
THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS    ^f 


IN  LITERATURE 


\jU^ 


By  ELIZA  GREGORY  WILKINS 


THE  UNIVERSITY  OF  CHICAGO  PRESS 
CHICAGO  •  ILLINOIS 


COPYRIGHT  I929   BY  THE  UNIVERSITY  OF  CHICAGO.    ALL  RIGHTS  RESERVED 
PUBLISHED  FEBRUARY  I929 


COMPOSED  AND   PRINTED  BY  THE  UNIVERSITY  OF  CHICAGO   PRESS 
CHICAGO,  ILLINOIS,  U.S.A. 


PREFACE 

This  little  volume  is  the  outgrowth  of  several  years  of  inter- 
mittent browsing  in  many  books,  and  of  a  superficial  scanning 
of  many  more  as  the  quest  for  the  Delphic  maxims  in  literature 
has  become  increasingly  absorbing.  It  was  yv&di  aeavrov  and 
its  meaning  for  the  Greeks  of  old  that  started  the  quest;  and 
when  the  results  of  that  study  had  taken  shape  in  the  form  of  a 
dissertation  on  "  'Know  Thyself  in  Greek  and  Latin  Litera- 
ture," there  remained  an  awakened  curiosity  regarding  what 
the  Greeks  and  Romans  had  had  to  say  about  each  of  the  other 
two  maxims  on  the  Delphic  temple,  and  regarding  the  thoughts 
which  the  generations  since  a.d.  500  have  expressed  in  con- 
nection with  all  three.  The  results  of  an  investigation  of  }ir]bev 
ixyav  and  of  iyyva,  wapa  5'  arrj  in  classical  literature  have  been 
published  in  Classical  Philology  for  1926  and  1927,  respectively. 
The  results  of  the  further  query  form  the  main  body  of  the 
present  work — that  is,  the  greater  part  of  chapter  iii  and 
the  whole  of  chapters  v-xi.  Chapter  i  contains  much  of  the 
material  of  the  Introduction  to  "  'Know  Thyself  in  Greek  and 
Latin  Literature,"  revised  and  brought  up  to  date;  and  chapter 
iv  consists  of  a  resume  of  the  remainder  of  that  work;  while 
chapter  ii  and  the  first  few  pages  of  chapter  iii  are  merely 
skeleton  condensations  of  the  above-named  articles  on  the 
other  two  maxims.  This  earlier  material  is  included  here  partly 
as  a  background  for  the  later  chapters,  and  partly  for  the  pur- 
pose of  gathering  within  the  compass  of  one  convenient  little 
volume  all  that  we  know  of  consequence  regarding  the  Delphic 
inscriptions  and  the  thoughts  to  which  they  have  given  rise  in 
men's  minds. 


vi  PREFACE 

It  is  obvious  that  the  entire  field  of  literature  down  the 
ages  is  too  wide  for  even  a  superficial  scanning,  and  conse- 
quently whole  realms  of  knowledge,  such  as  those  of  science  and 
history,  have  lain  virtually  untouched;  nor  have  the  drama 
and  the  novel  received  more  than  a  partial  scrutiny.  It  is  chief- 
ly from  poetry  other  than  drama,  from  essays,  and  from  philo- 
sophical and  ecclesiastical  writings  that  the  passages  herein 
quoted  have  been  gleaned.  Doubtless  many  a  passage  has 
been  overlooked — some,  perhaps,  more  pertinent  than  those 
to  which  the  book  calls  attention;  although  it  is  probable  that 
its  main  premises  would  not  be  affected  by  any  such  further 
discoveries.  Moreover,  it  may  appear  that  natural  ramifica- 
tions of  thought  extending  from  a  number  of  the  passages  under 
consideration  have  been  passed  by  too  lightly,  but  it  has 
seemed  well  to  keep  the  treatment  within  very  limited  bounds. 
The  notes  at  the  end  of  the  book  contain,  as  will  be  seen,  sun- 
dry material,  including  such  bibliographical  information  as 
the  presentation  demands. 

My  thanks  are  due  to  Professor  Paul  Shorey,  of  the  Univer- 
sity of  Chicago,  for  my  initial  interest  in  this  theme  and  for  a 
certain  guidance  through  the  stages  of  the  earlier  investigation. 
I  am  also  indebted  to  President  George  Norlin  of  the  Univer- 
sity of  Colorado  for  his  cordial  interest  and  hearty  indorsement 
of  the  general  plan  of  the  work,  as  well  as  for  some  few  sugges- 
tions toward  its  improvement,  and  to  several  of  my  former 
colleagues  for  criticisms  and  suggestions:  particularly  Profes- 
sor Irene  McKeehan  and  Professor  William  S.  Baur,  of  the 
University  of  Colorado,  and  Dr.  Marjorie  Harris,  associate  pro- 
fessor of  philosophy  at  Randolph-Macon  College. 

Most  of  the  illustrations  are  reproductions  of  pictures  in  old 
books  now  in  the  possession  of  the  library  of  Harvard  Univer- 
sity, made  with  the  generous  co-operation  of  the  library  au- 


PREFACE  vii 

thorities  and  with  the  painstaking  skill  of  Mr.  Robert  A.  Pear- 
man,  official  photographer  for  the  Massachusetts  Historical 
Society.  The  photograph  of  the  Minoan  gem  in  Figure  3,  how- 
ever, was  furnished  by  the  Metropolitan  Museum;  while  the 
picture  of  the  tomb  floor  in  Figure  10  is  a  reproduction  of  a 
photograph  by  Alinari.  The  picture  of  the  two  coins  in  Fig- 
ure 1  was  taken  from  Hermes,  Volume  XXXVI,  with  the  kind 
permission  of  Weidmannsche  Buchhandlung;  and  the  view  of 
the  old  omphalos  in  Figure  2  from  Fouilles  de  Delphes  II 
(191 5),  fig.  64,  with  the  gracious  consent  of  the  editor,  E.  de 
Boccard. 

Eliza  Gregory  Wilkins 

Hood  College 
Frederick,  Maryland 


CONTENTS 

CHAPTER  PAGE 

I.  Introduction i 

II.  'Eyy va,  irdpa  &  art]  IN  LITERATURE II 

III.  Myj&v  ayav  IN  LITERATURE 19 

»    IV.   TvU)0L  'SeaVTOV  IN  GREEK  AND  LATIN  LITERATURE       ...  49 

V.  The  Theme  of  Self-knowledge  in  Medieval  Literature  74 

VI.   Tvu)6l  %eavrov  AND  THE  THEME  OF  SELF-KNOWLEDGE  IN  THE 

Literature  of  the  Sixteenth  and  Seventeenth  Cen- 
turies    85 

VII.  Maxim  and  Theme  in  Eighteenth-Century  Literature  116 

VIII.   Tv&Oi  ^eavrov  IN   THE   PHILOSOPHY   OF  THE    PERIOD    FROM 

1775  to  1875 134 

IX.  Tvu>6l  ^cavrov  in  German  and  French  Literature  from 

1775  to  1875 146 

X.  Maxim  and  Theme  in  English  and  American  Literature 

from  1775  to  1875 156 

XL  Maxim  and  Theme  in  Philosophy  and  Literature  from 

1875 181 

Notes  and  References 214 

Index 263 


CHAPTER  I 
INTRODUCTION 

On  the  temple  of  Apollo  at  Delphi  there  were  inscribed,  of 
old,  three  maxims — Tvoodi  aeavrbv*  ("Know  thyself"),  M.rjdev 
ixyav  ("Nothing  too  much"),  and  'E77UC1,  wdpa  5'  drrj  ("Give  a 
pledge,  or  give  security,  and  trouble  is  at  hand").  Plutarch  tells 
us,  too,  that  there  was  also  on  the  temple  a  letter  E.  We  do  not 
know  how  early  these  inscriptions  appeared  at  Delphi,  or  on 
which  part  of  the  temple  they  were  placed.  It  is  possible  that 
one  or  more  of  them  were  on  the  stone  temple  which  was  de- 
stroyed by  fire  in  548  B.C.  It  is  certain  that  the  three  maxims 
were  on  the  new  temple  of  stone  which  the  Alcmaeonidae 
adorned  with  a  front  of  Parian  marble  toward  the  last  of  the 
sixth,  or  early  in  the  fifth,  century,  for  testimony  to  their  pres- 
ence there  is  abundant  in  fifth-century  literature;  and  a  state- 
ment in  Plutarch's  E  at  Delphi  would  lead  us  to  think  that  the 
E  was  almost,  if  not  quite,  as  early.1  This  fifth-century  temple 
was  destroyed  and  rebuilt  in  the  fourth  century;  and  the 
fourth-century  temple  in  turn  suffered  partial  destruction  in 
84-83  B.C.,  and  again  in  Nero's  time.  It  is  probable  that  the 
inscriptions  were  renewed  whenever  they  were  impaired  or  de- 
stroyed. In  the  Roman  period,  they  were  evidently  inscribed 
in  gilt  letters,  for  Pliny  speaks  of  their  being  written  in  letters 
of  gold,2  and  Plutarch  mentions  the  "golden  E  of  the  Empress 
Livia."  It  is  observable  that  the  three  maxims  together  form 
a  hexameter  verse,  if  the  u  and  a  of  €771x1  are  treated  as  a  case 
of  synizesis.  The  placing  of  such  inscriptions  on  a  Greek  temple 

*  Frequently  written  aavrdp  in  the  literature. 


2  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

was  not  peculiar  to  Delphi,  for  there  was  a  hexameter  verse 
of  six  words  on  the  old  temple  of  Artemis  at  Ephesus,3  and  an 
epigram  on  the  Apollo  temple  at  Delos.4 

Two  modern  scholars,  Goettling5  and  Roscher,6  have  held 
the  theory  that  there  were  originally  seven  maxims  on  the 
Delphic  temple — Goettling  because  of  the  traditional  connec- 
tion of  the  well-known  three  with  the  Seven  Wise  Men,  and 
Roscher  further  because  of  the  prevalence  of  the  number  seven 
in  matters  pertaining  to  the  Apollo  cult.  A  fragment  of  Varro 
says  that  there  was  written  at  Delphi  a  Theo  Hera,1  usually 
transcribed  0ew  rjpa  ("Service  to  God");  and  Goettling  and 
Roscher  both  think  that  EI,  represented  in  inscriptions  by  E, 
and  0ew  rjpa  may  have  formed  the  beginning  of  another  hex- 
ameter verse,  the  remainder  of  which  has  been  lost.  Goettling 
attempts  to  restore  the  lost  hexameter  by  supplying  a  verb 
meaning  "be  helpful"  and  an  oracular  saying  once  given  to 
Diogenes  the  Cynic,  which  Suidas  erroneously  connects  with 
yv&dt  aeavrbv}  Other  scholars  have  shown  the  weakness  of 
Goettling' s  position  as  regards  this  last  saying,  however;  and 
Roscher  has  made  a  fresh  attempt  at  rilling  out  the  verse.  On 
the  assumption  that  the  four  maxims  mentioned  in  a  passage  in 
Cicero's  Be  Finibus9  as  "old  precepts  of  the  Sages"  may  all  have 
been  at  Delphi,  since  the  list  includes  "Know  thyself"  and 
"Nothing  too  much,"  and  a  third,  Sequi  deum  ("Follow  God"), 
might  represent  0ew  rjpa,  he  emends  the  fourth,  tempori  par  ere, 
to  tempori  par  cere,  thereby  securing  a  maxim,  "Spare  time," 
which  occurs  in  a  long  and  late  list  of  so-called  "Pythian  Pre- 
cepts." And  he  finds  in  that  same  long  list  a  suggestion  of  an- 
other precept,  "Obey  the  laws,"  which  is  connected  with  a 
Greek  phrase  for  "Follow  God"  in  Marcus  Antoninus.10  These 
two  maxims,  "Obey  the  laws"  and  "Spare  time,"  in  their  Greek 
form  serve  to  complete  the  verse  metrically."  But  while  this 


INTRODUCTION  3 

theory  of  Roscher's  is  ingenious,  it  is  not  very  well  supported. 
"Obey  the  laws"  is  rarely  mentioned  in  the  literature,  and 
never  at  all,  apparently,  in  connection  with  the  temple  or  with 
any  of  the  three  familiar  maxims  upon  it;  and  neither  Cicero 
nor  any  other  ancient  writer  tells  us  that  "Spare  time"  was 
at  Delphi,  apart  from  such  long  lists  as  the  one  just  mentioned. 
In  fact,  any  reconstruction  of  a  second  verse  of  maxims  would 
seem  entirely  unwarranted,  were  it  not  for  Varro's  statement 
regarding  Geco  r\pa.  We  may  even  venture  to  question  the 
reliability  of  this  fragment  of  Varro,  for  the  phrase  Geo)  rjpa 
occurs  nowhere  else,  as  a  precept  at  least,  and  the  maxim 
which  is  most  nearly  related  to  it  in  thought,  ewov  Geo;  ("Follow 
God"),  is  never  connected  with  Delphi  in  ancient  literature. 
Hence  it  is  much  easier  to  conclude  that  Varro  may  have  made 
a  mistake  in  referring  it  to  Delphi  than  it  is  to  account  for 
the  silence  regarding  it,  if  it  was  really  there — especially  since 
the  well-known  three  called  forth  so  much  comment,  both  sing- 
ly and  collectively.  Moreover,  if  there  actually  were  these 
seven  sayings  inscribed  on  the  Delphic  temple,  it  seems  very 
strange  that  neither  Geo)  r\pa  nor  any  of  the  other  additional 
ones  suggested  in  these  modern  reconstructions  should  appear 
in  the  poems  or  prose  passages  which  assign  one  maxim  each 
to  the  Seven  Sages — passages  which  always  include  the  tradi- 
tional three. 

Ancient  writers  state  the  location  of  the  maxims  on  the 
temple  variously.  Pausanias  says  that  they  were  on  the  prona- 
os;12  Diodorus  Siculus,  that  they  were  on* a  certain  column;13 
Macrobius,  in  one  passage,  that  they  were  on  the  doorpost,14 
and  in  another,  that  they  were  on  the  temple  front;15  while 
the  scholiast  on  Plato's  Phaedrus16  places  them  on  the  propy- 
laea.  On  two  coins  of  the  time  of  Hadrian,  which  represent 
the  temple  front,  the  E  occupies  the  central  space  between  col- 


4  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

umns  (Fig.  i).  Goettling  and  Roscher  have  conceived  the  idea 
that  they  were  all  written  on  tablets.  According  to  Roscher, 
with  his  theory  of  seven  sayings  in  all,  the  E  may  have  been 
suspended  between  the  two  columns  of  the  pronaos,  while  the 
remaining  six  were  written  three  each  on  two  tablets  and  at- 
tached to  either  column;  or  they  may  have  been  written  singly 
on  six  tablets  and  attached  to  the  columns  of  the  front,  with 
the  E  on  the  left  central  column  and  jvojOl  aeavrbv  on  the  right 
central.  This  theory  that  they  were  placed  on  tablets  may 
have  been  true  for  the  E,  for,  aside  from  the  evidence  of  the 


Fig.  i 


coins,  Plutarch  speaks  of  the  old  "wooden  E"  and  "the  bronze 
E  of  the  Athenians,"  as  well  as  of  the  "golden  E  of  the  Empress 
Livia";  and  the  existence  of  the  three  in  Plutarch's  day  might 
well  be  due  to  the  rescue  of  the  earlier  two  in  times  of  disaster. 
The  theory  that  the  maxims  were  on  tablets  has  less  to  sup- 
port it.  Since  the  three  together  form  a  hexameter  verse,  it 
seems  more  likely  that  they  were  written  continuously;  and 
while  the  evidence  from  ancient  literature  is  too  confused  to 
admit  of  any  certain  solution  of  the  problem,  we  may  perhaps 
be  inclined  to  agree  with  Pausanias,  who,  we  are  sure,  had 
been  at  Delphi,  and  who  was  used  to  observing  matters  of  de- 
tail, that  they  were  on  the  pronaos.  If  they  were  written  as 


INTRODUCTION  5 

a  single  hexameter  verse  on  the  wall  of  the  pronaos  above  the 
columns,  the  E  may  well  have  been  suspended  between  them, 
although  it  is  equally  possible  that  it  hung  between  the  central 
outer  columns. 

The  only  ancient  discussion,  and  almost  the  only  mention, 
of  the  letter  E  which  has  come  down  to  us  is  Plutarch's  treatise 
entitled  The  E  at  Delphi.  This  treatise,  like  his  other  incidental 
mention  of  the  E,17  shows  that  its  meaning  was  not  clear  to 
the  men  of  his  day.  Seven  possible  explanations  are  indicated 
in  the  treatise — three  based  on  the  understanding  that  the  E 
is  a  pure  E,  rather  than  the  inscriptional  representation  of  the 
diphthong  EI,  and  the  other  four  based  on  the  assumption 
that  it  was  meant  to  represent  the  diphthong.  If  it  is  a  pure 
E,  the  fifth  letter  of  the  alphabet,  he  says,  it  must  have  some 
significance  connected  with  the  number  five,  indicating  that 
there  were  originally  five  sages  instead  of  seven;  or  it  may 
have  the  Pythagorean  mystical  meanings  of  that  number;  or 
again,  since  E  is  the  second  vowel,  and  the  sun — that  is,  Apollo 
— is  the  second  from  the  moon  in  the  order  of  planets,  it  may 
symbolize  Apollo.  If  it  represents  the  diphthong,  it  may  be 
the  conjunction  el  ("if"),  used  in  asking  questions — if  one 
should  marry,  if  one  should  go  on  a  voyage,  and  the  like;  or, 
used  in  combination  with  yap,  it  may  introduce  a  wish  or  prayer 
to  the  gods;  or  it  may  be  the  argumentative  "if"  honored  by 
the  patron  god  of  logic;  or  it  may  be  an  el,  the  second  person 
singular  indicative  of  the  verb  "to  be,"  thus  meaning  "Thou  art" 
and  expressing  the  worshiper's  recognition  of  the  fact  that  God 
alone  possesses  true  being.  This  last  meaning  suggested  by 
Plutarch  is  adopted  by  Wieland  in  a  parenthetical  allusion 
in  his  Aristippus.1*  Goettling  likewise  thinks  that  the  E  means 
"Thou  art";  but  he  regards  it,  not  as  the  worshiper's  address 
to  the  god,  but  as  the  god's  address  to  the  worshiper,  by  which 


6  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

he  says  in  effect,  "As  a  creative,  rational  being,  thou  hast 
self-consciousness,  thou  art  a  man."  Schultze,  in  his  article  on 
"Die  Spriiche  der  delphischen  Saule"  agrees  with  Goettling's 
interpretation;19  but  Roscher  suggests  a  new  meaning  for  the 
diphthong.20  He  thinks  that  el  may  be  an  archaic  imperative 
form  of  the  verb  "go";  and  he  translates  it  not  "go"  but 
"come,"  making  it  a  word  of  welcome  to  the  worshiper.  An- 
other modern  view  is  that  of  Lagercrantz,21  who  thinks  that 
the  E  is  not  the  inscriptional  form  of  el  here,  but  an  equally 
possible  inscriptional  representation  of  the  verb  rj  ("he  said"), 
and  that  with  Apollo  understood  as  subject,  it  is  intended  to 
introduce  the  three  maxims  authoritatively. 

The  discovery  at  Delphi  in  1896  of  the  old  omphalos  (Fig. 
2) — probably  the  original  fetish  stone — bearing  the  inscription 
^r  A  ^  Tk">  has  led  to  the  more  recent  view  that  the  E  was 
originally  not  a  letter  at  all,  but  a  symbolic  character  of  some 
kind  which  came  to  be  regarded  as  a  letter  of  the  alphabet  after 
its  original  significance  had  been  lost  sight  of.  The  last  three 
letters  of  the  inscription  spell  Yds,  the  genitive  of  Td  (better 
known  as  "Gaia"  or  "Ge"),  the  great  Earth  goddess  who  had 
a  shrine  at  Delphi  prior  to  the  coming  of  Apollo.  If  the  first 
character  is  not  an  E  in  horizontal  position,  what  does  it  rep- 
resent? Dornseiff,  in  his  Das  Alphabet  in  Mystik  und  Magie22 
suggests  that  the  V^.  may  have  been  a  mystic  key  or  a  small 
model  of  a  temple.  A.  B.  Cook,  in  his  Zeus,23  tells  us  that  he 
once  thought  the  E  might  be  a  relic — the  trident  of  Poseidon 
kept  in  the  sanctuary — for  we  know  from  Pausanias  that 
Poseidon  had  an  altar  at  Delphi.24  He  now  thinks,  however, 
that  the  character  V>j-  represents  the  sky  upborne  by  central 
and  lateral  pillars,  even  as  Egyptian  signs  depict  four  columns 
supporting  the  heavens.25  More  convincing  is  the  theory  set 
forth  by  W.  N.  Bates  in  an  article  in  the  American  Journal  of. 


INTRODUCTION  7 

Archeology  entitled  "The  E  of  the  Temple  of  Delphi."26  He 
thinks  that  the  E  (or  ^-)  was  originally  a  character  symbolic 
of  divinity — of  the  Earth  goddess,  who  was  at  first  identical 
with  the  Mother  goddess  of  Crete,  known  as  "Rhea"  in  later 


#. 


:"     - 


Fig.  2 


times.  The  character  was  thus  of  Cretan  origin,  and  the  om- 
phalos too,  if  the  oval  object  on  a  certain  Cretan  seal  stone, 
which  he  shows,  is  an  omphalos.  In  support  of  this  theory  the 
writer  calls  attention  to  a  Minoan  gem  of  red  jasper  on  which 
are  carved  two  bulls  reclining  back  to  back,  with  the  double 


8  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

axe,  symbolic  of  Cretan  Zeus,  over  their  heads,  and  a  charac- 
ter resembling  an  E  between  them  (Fig.  3).  Stone  and  symbol 
both  were  taken  over  by  the  Apollo  cult,  he  thinks,  but  the 
Cretan  origin  and  the  real  significance  of  the  character  early 

passed  from  men's  minds.  It  is  to  be 
hoped  that  further  archaeological  ev- 
idence will  corroborate  this  theory  or 
make  plain  the  truth  of  the  matter, 
inasmuch  as  ancient  literature  has 
failed  to  enlighten  us  on  the  subject. 
The  original  authorship  of  the 
three  maxims  is  unknown.  Plato 
says,  in  a  rather  playful  incidental 
Fig.  3  passage  in  his  Protagoras,21  that 

"Thales  the  Milesian,  and  Pittacus 
the  Mitylenian,  and  Bias  the  Prienian,  and  our  Solon,  and  Cleo- 
bulus  the  Lindian,  and  Myson  the  Chenian,  and  the  seventh — 
Lacedaemonian  Chilon — came  together  and  dedicated  the  first- 
fruits  of  wisdom  to  Apollo  at  the  temple  of  Delphi,  writing  these 
sayings  which  are  on  everybody's  tongue — Tv&di  aavrov  and 
Mrjdh  <iyav"  This  is  the  first  certain  mention  of  the  Seven  Sages 
in  literature,  and  some  scholars  think  that  the  passage  marks 
the  starting-point  of  the  establishment  of  the  canon.  But  the 
canon  never  became  fixed.  Pausanias28  and  Demetrius  Phale- 
rius29  substitute  "Periander"  for  the  "Myson"  in  Plato's  list, 
and  other  late  writers  vary  the  names  to  such  an  extent  that 
no  fewer  than  twenty-two  different  men  are  classed  among 
the  Seven  Sages  at  one  time  and  another.30  The  maxims 
were  variously  distributed  among  them.  TvooOl  aeavrbv  is  as- 
signed to  Thales,  to  Chilon,  to  Solon,  and  to  Bias  by  differ- 
ent authors;  nrjdev  ayav  to  Thales,  Chilon,  Solon,  Pittacus,  and 
Sodamus;  and  eyyva,  wapa  5'  arrj  to  Thales,  Chilon,  Pittacus, 


INTRODUCTION  9 

and  Bias.  Diodorus  Siculus31  and  Pliny32  say  that  Chilon  wrote 
all  three.  Aristotle  apparently  thought  that  they  antedated 
Chilon,  and  some  ancient  writers  held  the  theory  that  they 
were  oracular  sayings  uttered  by  the  priestess  under  the  in- 
spiration of  the  god.  Dio  Chrysostom,  for  instance,  calls  them 
"almost  more  divine  than  the  oracles  delivered  by  the  in- 
spired priestess";  and,  in  speaking  of  yvcodi  aeavrov  in  particu- 
lar, Cicero  says  that  its  force  is  so  great  that  it  is  attributed 
not  to  some  man  but  to  the  Delphic  god;33  while  Juvenal  ex- 
presses much  of  the  ancient  feeling  in  his  famous  verse  "E 
caelo  descendit  yv&dt,  aeavrov.34  The  uncertain  testimony  of 
antiquity  with  regard  to  the  authorship  of  the  maxims  is  well 
summarized  by  Porphyry  when  he  says : 

Whether  Phemonoe,  through  whom  the  Pythian  God  is  said  to  have 

first  distributed  favors  to  men,  uttered  this  (yvwfli  aeavrov) or  Phano- 

thea,  the  priestess  of  Delphi,  or  whether  it  was  a  dedication  of  Bias,  or 
Thales,  or  Chilon,  started  by  some  divine  inspiration  .....  or  whether.it 
was  before  Chilon  .  .  . . ,  as  Aristotle  says  in  his  work  on  Philosophy,  who- 
soever it  was,  ....  let  the  question  of  its  origin  lie  in  dispute.35 

The  sayings  begin  to  appear  in  extant  Greek  literature 
sometime  during  the  latter  half  of  the  sixth  century  B.C.  If 
they  were  on  the  old  temple  destroyed  by  fire  in  548  B.C.,  their 
presence  there  would  thus  antedate  their  appearance  in  litera- 
ture; but  we  need  not  agree  with  Roscher,  who  thinks  that 
they  originated  at  Delphi  and  had  at  first  only  a  local  applica- 
tion in  connection  with  the  temple  service.  They  may  well 
have  been  current  "proverbs"  long  before  they  were  selected 
for  the  inscription,  although  their  presence  on  Apollo's  Delphic 
temple  undoubtedly  gave  them  a  heightened  importance  in 
later  thought.  Allusions  to  iyyba,  irapa  5'  arrj  are  relatively  in- 
frequent both  in  Greek  and  later  literature,  but  fxrjdev  dyav 
and  especially  yv&di  aeavrov  recur  ever  and  again  in  the  extant 


io  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

literature  of  the  Greeks  and  Romans,  and  we  are  told  of  many 
a  lengthy  discussion  which  has  been  lost.  "Behold  how  many 
questions  these  inscriptions  yvoodu  aavrbv  and  fjLrjdh  ayai>  have 
set  afoot  among  the  philosophers,"  says  Plutarch,  "and  what 
a  multitude  of  discussions  has  sprung  from  each  of  them  as 
from  a  seed."36  And  again  he  says,  "If  you  consider  what  has 
been  written  or  said  about  them  by  those  who  wish  to  under- 
stand what  each  means,  not  easily  will  you  find  longer  discus- 
sions than  these."37  Plutarch,  along  with  Plato  and  others,  ad- 
mired the  Laconic  brevity  with  which  such  potent  wisdom  is 
expressed;  and  he  compares  them  to  streams  confined  in  a  nar- 
row channel.  Certainly  the  stream  of  their  influence  did  not 
cease  to  flow  with  the  close  of  the  Classical  period.  Mrjdh  ayav 
ran  low,  it  is  true,  during  the  long  centuries  between  a.d.  500 
and  a.d.  1500,  and  we  find  yv&6i  aeavrbv  chiefly  under  a  some- 
what new  guise  in  the  literature  of  the  church;  but  with  the 
coming  of  the  Renaissance  both  leaped  to  full  tide  again,  and 
they  are  still  flowing  on  with  unabated  strength.  Mrjdh  ixyav 
exhibits  in  recent  centuries  not  only  all  of  its  early  Greek  ap- 
plications but  others  not  found  in  ancient  literature.  TvcoOl 
aeavrbv  has  kept  all  of  its  old-time  forces,  though  in  somewhat 
different  degree,  and  has  ever  taken  on  new  ones  in  addition, 
as  new  thought  movements  have  arisen.  To  trace  the  history 
of  these  maxims  down  the  ages  leads  us  not  only  into  literature 
of  almost  every  type  to  a  greater  or  less  extent  but  into  some 
touch  with  the  thought  movements  which  have  characterized 
each  period  in  the  development  of  mankind.  And  these 
words  of  "potent  wisdom,"  so  succinctly  spoken,  hold  us  still, 
with  all  the  fascination  of  the  growing  grain  and  of  the  me- 
andering river  in  the  summer  season. 


CHAPTER  II 
'EITTA,  IIAPA  A'  ATH   IN  LITERATURE 

We  need  further  light  than  our  present  extant  literature 
affords  to  enable  us  to  determine  with  certainty  the  exact  orig- 
inal intent  of  eyyva,  irapa  5'  clttj.  This  maxim  is  apparently  al- 
luded to  first  in  a  brief  fragment  of  Epicharmus,1  who  flourished 
early  in  the  fifth  century  B.C.,  and  unmistakably  in  a  fragment 
of  Euripides.2  The  setting  in  which  the  latter  fragment  occurs 
shows  without  question  that  it  means  "Give  surety,  and 
trouble  is  at  hand,"  and  indirect  evidence  goes  to  show  that 
it  means  the  same  in  Epicharmus.  Plato  merely  mentions  it 
as  one  of  the  three  maxims  on  the  temple.3  A  fragment  of 
Cratinus  the  Younger,  a  poet  of  the  Middle  Comedy,  reads, 
"Having  consented  to  be  one  of  three  sureties,  I  was  caught. 
So  did  the  inscription  at  Delphi  hold  good  for  once,  that  surety- 
ship is  woe.  But  I  am  naturally  a  compliant  friend."4  These, 
with  the  mere  notice  that  Aristotle's  school  attributed  the 
maxim  to  Chilon,5  are  our  only  allusions  to  eyyva,  wapa  5'  clttj 
prior  to  the  first  century  B.C.  Among  later  writers,  Plutarch 
connects  the  apothegm  with  suretyship  in  his  De  Vitioso 
Pudore,6  where  he  says  that  the  timid  may  meet  with  loss 
by  giving  security  for  those  for  whom  they  do  not  wish  to  do 
so;  and  Clement  of  Alexandria,7  in  saying  that  the  Greeks  bor- 
rowed the  precept  from  the  Bible,  refers  to  Prov.  6:1-2,  "My 
son,  if  thou  become  surety  for  thy  friend,  etc."  In  Latin  lit- 
erature, while  the  maxim  is  quoted  but  rarely,  it  is  invari- 
ably used  of  suretyship.  Ausonius,  who  has  the  most  to  say 
about  it  of  any  Latin  writer,  remarks,  in  his  Masque  of  the 


12  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

Seven  Sages,  that  money-lenders  do  not  like  the  precept8  and 
that  those  who  give  security  and  bail  are  liable  to  repentance.9 
Returning  to  the  first  century  B.C.,  we  find  that  men  were 
not  always  satisfied  with  the  idea  that  the  maxim  was  intended 
to  apply  to  suretyship  alone,  and  that  they  were  casting  about 
in  their  discussions  for  some  more  satisfactory  interpretation. 
There  is  an  echo  of  such  discussions  in  a  passage  of  Diodorus 
Siculus  and  in  Plutarch's  Banquet  of  the  Seven  Wise  Men. 
Diodorus  Siculus  "says : 

Some  interpret  the  maxim  to  forbid  marriage,  for  the  marriage  con- 
tract among  most  of  the  Greeks  is  called  iyyvrj,  and  this  view  is  supported 
by  the  evidence  of  common  life,  in  which  many  great  misfortunes  arise 
through  the  women.  But  some  say  that  this  interpretation  is  unworthy 
of  Chilon,  because  human  life  could  not  continue  if  marriage  were  taken 
away,  and  they  show  that  trouble  attends  pledges  given  in  contracts  and 

in  agreements  in  behalf  of  others  involving  money But  some  say 

that  this  is  not  worthy  of  Chilon,  for  it  is  not  good  citizenship  to  refuse  to 
meet  such  needs  on  the  part  of  one's  friends,  but  that  the  maxim,  rather, 
forbids  strong  affirmations  and  emphatically  guaranteeing  and  determin- 
ing something  in  human  affairs,  as  the  Greeks  did  when  they  contended 
against  Xerxes.  For  they  swore  at  Plataea  that  they  would  hand  down 
their  enmity  to  their  children's  children  to  continue  as  long  as  the  rivers 
should  flow  into  the  sea,  and  the  human  race  exist,  and  the  earth  yield 
her  increase.  But  while  they  made  such  strong  asseverations  touching 
matters  which  so  easily  change  with  Fortune,  after  a  time  they  sent 
envoys  to  Artaxerxes,  the  son  of  Xerxes,  with  regard  to  a  treaty  of 
friendship.10 

Now  the  foregoing  three  possible  meanings  suggested  for  the 
maxim  really  grow  out  of  the  three  uses  of  the  verb  tyyvau  and 
the  noun  from  which  it  is  derived,  as  we  find  them  in  Greek 
literature  from  early  times.  The  verb  is  regularly  used  in  the 
betrothal  ceremony  as  given  by  Herodotus,"  the  father  pledg- 
ing his  daughter  with  the  active,  and  the  suitor  pledging  his 
hand  with  the  middle  voice.  It  is  used,  regularly  in  the  middle. 


'EITTA  IIAPA  A'  ATH  IN  LITERATURE  13 

of  giving  surety,  from  Homer  down;  and  it  is  used  in  the  middle 
occasionally,  as  early  as  Pindar  at  least,  in  making  a  strong 
affirmation  or  promise  of  any  kind.  It  seems  that  Diodorus 
prefers  this  last-named  or  general  meaning,  and  that  he  is  illus- 
trating it  by  a  vivid  historical  instance,  actual  or  traditional, 
of  an  affirmation  made  in  terms  of  an  oath,  which  could  not 
be  fulfilled,  as  matters  turned  out.  The  closing  chapter  of 
Plutarch's  Banquet  of  the  Seven  Wise  Men  echoes  this  or  some 
similar  discussion,  for  he  describes  the  maxim  as  one  which 
has  made  many  unwedded,  many  overcautious,  and  some  even 
speechless — meaning  by  the  last,  apparently,  that  they  re- 
frained from  strong  assertions.  He  indicates  further  that  it 
was  customary  to  support  the  theory  that  the  maxim  was  con- 
nected with  suretyship  by  a  passage  from  Homer  in  which 
the  verb  is  used  in  such  a  sense;  but  he  jestingly  finds  Homeric 
authority  for  the  third  or  general  meaning  in  the  story  of  Zeus's 
hurling  Ate  out  of  heaven  to  accompany  the  oath  which  Hera 
had  tricked  him  into  swearing  when  she  thwarted  his  purpose 
on  the  day  of  Heracles'  birth. 

The  only  other  occurrence  of  the  maxim  in  ancient  litera- 
ture which  sheds  any  light  upon  its  meaning  is  in  a  statement 
by  Diogenes  Laertius  in  his  chapter  on  Pyrrho.12  He  is  saying 
that  the  principles  of  the  Skeptics  were  not  confined  to  the 
Pyrrhoneans,  for  Homer  is  said  by  some  to  be  the  founder  of 
Skepticism,  since  the  poet  represents  a  matter  sometimes  in 
one  way,  sometimes  in  another,  without  laying  down  a  defi- 
nite opinion  about  it;  and  he  quotes  passages  from  Archi- 
lochus,  Euripides,  Xenophanes,  and  other  early  writers,  to 
the  effect  that  we  know  nothing  with  certainty.  "The  max- 
ims of  the  Seven  Sages  are  also  called  Skeptical,"  he  declares, 
"such  as  the  nrjdev  a7az>  and  the  eyyua,  irapa  5'  cm?";  and  he 
adds  by  way  of  explanation  of  the  latter,  "It  is  shown  that 


i4  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

trouble  attends  him  who  affirms  anything  in  strong  terms  and 
confidently." 

Of  the  three  meanings  suggested  for  the  maxim  by  Diodorus 
Siculus  and  by  Plutarch,  the  suggestion  that  it  may  refer  to 
betrothal  occurs  nowhere  else.  Of  the  other  two  meanings, 
that  of  suretyship  is  by  far  the  most  common,  although  the 
more  general  meaning,  " Commit  yourself  to  some  course,"  is 
seen  to  occur  in  certain  instances.  The  question  of  which  was 
actually  the  earlier  of  these  two  forces  cannot  be  determined 
from  the  evidence  at  hand.  If  the  general  meaning  was  the 
original  intent  of  the  maxim,  then,  as  far  as  we  know,  it  was 
ordinarily  applied  specifically  to  suretyship  all  through  the  ear- 
lier centuries.  If  it  was  originally  intended  as  a  caution  against 
giving  security  lightly,  it  came  to  take  on  an  occasional  wider 
application  later.  Among  modern  critical  scholars,  some  few 
regard  it  as  being  intended  to  apply  to  suretyship  first  of  all, 
while  others  prefer  to  regard  the  general  meaning  as  the  earlier. 
Roscher,  however,  thinks  that  both  the  application  to  surety- 
ship and  the  general  application  were  later  developments,  and 
that,  along  with  the  other  maxims,  it  was  intended  originally 
to  have  to  do  with  the  worship  at  the  temple.  He  fancies  that 
yv&Oi  aeavTov  was  an  exhortation  to  the  worshiper  to  be  clear 
about  himself  and  what  he  wanted,  that  jx-qhev  aycu>  was  an  ex- 
hortation to  limit  the  number  of  his  requests,  and  that  iyyva, 
irapa  5'  olttj  meant  originally  "Bring  to  the  God  thy  vows,  but 
also  think  that  thereby  thou  must  fulfil  them,  if  thou  dost  not 
wish  the  punishment  or  wrath  of  God  to  fall  upon  thee."13 
This  theory  of  Roscher's  seems  rather  fanciful,  for,  if  such  were 
the  original  intent  of  the  maxims,  it  was  apparently  quite  lost 
sight  of  in  Greek  literature;  and  moreover,  we  find  no  justifi- 
cation for  taking  the  verb  eyyudco  in  the  sense  of  fulfilling  one's 
vows.  Still  another  theory  has  been  proposed  by  Partsch  in 


'EITTA  IIAPA  A'  ATH  IN  LITERATURE  15 

his  Griechisches  Bilrgschaftsrecht,I4baiSed  on  the  observation  that 
the  verb  is  in  the  active  voice  in  the  maxim,  whereas  the  middle 
is  regularly  used  of  giving  security.  He  thinks  that  the  active 
may  have  meant  originally  to  make  someone  else  a  surety, 
and  that,  since  the  gods  were  sometimes  spoken  of  as  our  sure- 
ties, the  surety  indicated  in  the  maxim  may  be  Apollo,  and 
the  maxim  may  be  conceived  to  be  a  warning  against  taking 
oaths  lightly.  He  feels  that  this  interpretation  accords  well 
with  Roscher's  idea  of  the  general  purpose  of  the  maxims  as 
a  whole,  and  accepts  his  two  hexameter  verses  as  if  the  pres- 
ence of  the  additional  maxims  at  Delphi  were  a  proven  fact. 
We  cannot  agree  with  him  in  this,  nor  does  it  seem  likely  that 
eyyva,  irapa  5'  drr}  could  have  been  directed  originally  against 
the  taking  of  oaths  and  then  shifted  so  early  to  a  warning 
against  the  assuming  of  suretyship.  The  use  of  the  active  in 
either  sense  is  an  archaism,  for  the  middle  of  the  verb  eyyyaca 
is  used  in  the  few  passages  where  the  maxim  is  connected  with 
an  oath.  While  at  first  these  passages  may  seem  to  support 
Partsch's  theory,  taken  in  their  entire  setting  they  seem  quite 
as  likely  to  serve  as  merely  striking  illustrations  of  its  possible 
general  application.  If  the  precept  meant  originally  " Commit 
yourself  to  any  course  and  trouble  is  at  hand,"  its  frequent 
application  to  suretyship  can  be  readily  understood,  in  view 
of  the  large  place  which  the  custom  held  in  ancient  life.  But 
if  it  was  originally  intended  merely  as  a  warning  against  giving 
security  thoughtlessly,  it  would  doubtless  be  considered  suf- 
ficiently important  for  a  place  on  Apollo's  temple,  so  general 
was  the  custom,  and  so  common  the  warning  in  the  proverbs 
of  other  peoples. 

References  to  this  maxim  in  modern  literature  are  few  and 
far  between.  It  occurs  in  a  poem  by  Jacob  Camerarius  of  the 
sixteenth  century,  written  more  or  less  in  imitation  of  Auso- 


1 6  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

nius'  Masque  of  the  Seven  Sages,  with  a  similar  title  and  with  a 
like  application  of  the  apothegm  to  suretyship;  and  Erasmus 
adopts  Ausonius'  rendering  for  it  in  his  Adagio.  Erasmus 
quotes  it  in  connection  with  a  different  kind  of  promise, 
however,  in  one  of  his  letters  to  Ammonius,15  written  on  the 
occasion  of  his  detention  for  ten  days  to  help  the  Bishop  of 
Rochester  in  his  study  of  Greek,  when  Erasmus  was  impatient 
to  cross  to  the  Continent.  He  declares  in  his  letter  that  he  has 
repented  of  his  promise  more  than  ten  times  and  perceives  that 
the  proverb  e77ua,  Tapa  5'  oltt]  is  altogether  true.  His  friend 
Ammonius  remarks,  in  reply  to  this  letter,  that  he  has  no  doubt 
but  that  Erasmus'  "promise"  will  be  " without  trouble."  An- 
drea Alciati,  likewise  a  friend  of  Erasmus,  an  eminent  orator 
and  lawyer,  and  in  a  sense  the  father  of  emblem  literature, 
includes  this  maxim,  of  course,  in  his  emblem  entitled  "Dicta 
Septem  Sapientum."16  It  is  illustrated  by  a  picture  of  two 
birds  caught  in  a  snare,  one  of  which,  the  poem  tells  us,  be- 
came smeared  with  birdlime  and  drew  his  mate  in  with  him 
(Fig.  4).  Hegel  and  Schopenhauer  each  quote  this  apothegm — 
Hegel  in  his  History  of  Philosophy,  where  he  alludes  to  it  twice; 
and  Schopenhauer  in  his  criticism  of  Kant's  "Doctrine  of  Con- 
science." Hegel  mentions  it  first  in  speaking  of  the  Seven  Wise 
Men,  as  a  saying  of  Chilon,  and  renders  it,  "Stand  surety  and 
evil  awaits  thee."  He  regards  it  as  "quite  a  common  rule  of 
life  and  prudence,"  but  thinks  that  the  Skeptics  gave  it  a 
much  higher  universal  significance,  namely,  "Ally  thyself  close- 
ly to  any  particular  thing  and  evil  will  fall  upon  thee."17  And 
farther  on,  in  speaking  of  the  Skeptics,  he  says  that  they  "count 
in  their  category  Bias,  with  his  maxim  'Avoid  being  surety.' 
For  this  has  the  general  sense — do  not  attach  yourself  to  any 
object  to  which  you  devote  yourself,  do  not  believe  in  the 
security  of  any  relationship,  &c."18  It  is  possible,  of  course, 


'EITTA  IIAPA  A'  ATH  IN  LITERATURE 


i7 


that  the  Skeptics  did  read  into  eyyva,  wapa  5'  arrj  the  meaning 
indicated  by  Hegel,  but  inasmuch  as  the  foregoing  passage 
from  Diogenes  Laertius  seems  to  be  the  only  one  in  which  the 
maxim  is  quoted  in  the  ancient  literature  of  Skepticism,  we 
are  justified  in  applying  it  to  their  principle  of  doubt,  not  to 
their  principle  of  apathy  or  indifference.  Hegel's  further  infer- 


Fig.  4 

ence  may  be  logical,  but  it  is  Hegel's  own.  Schopenhauer 
quotes  the  maxim  in  connection  with  his  attempt  to  show  the 
fallacy  of  Kant's  use  of  legal  terms  to  express  his  idea  of  how 
conscience  works.  The  same  kind  of  mental  process,  he  says, 
may  take  place  without  any  ethical  cause;  and  by  way  of  illus- 
tration he  imagines  that  he  has  become  surety  for  a  friend, 
and  then  at  evening  wakes  up  to  a  sense  of  the  responsibility 


18  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

which  he  has  assumed — a  matter  which  may  involve  him  "in 
serious  trouble,  as  the  wise  old  saying  €771x1,  irapa  5'  art]  pre- 
dicts." The  Accuser  and  the  Counsel  for  the  Defense  rise  up 
within  and  argue  the  case;  and  "last  of  all  comes  the  Judge, 
who  inexorably  passes  the  sentence,  'A  fool's  piece  of  work!'  "I9 
These  modern  citations  of  passages  containing  €771x1,  irapa 
8'  art],  few  though  they  are,  corroborate  in  a  measure  our  atti- 
tude regarding  the  meanings  accorded  the  maxim  in  antiquity. 
Schopenhauer,  as  we  see,  uses  it  of  suretyship  alone.  Hegel  re- 
gards that  as  its  original  intent,  but  thinks  that  the  Skeptics 
gave  it  a  deeper  significance  consonant  with  their  philosophy 
of  life;  while  Erasmus  records  it  mechanically  as  applying  to 
suretyship,  but  actually  uses  it  spontaneously  in  a  letter  in 
connection  with  a  promise  of  quite  another  kind.  That  the 
maxim  is  capable  of  both  a  technical  and  a  general  interpreta- 
tion has  been  amply  demonstrated.  Which  was  its  original  in- 
tent, no  one  knows,  nor  can  know  without  further  manuscript 
evidence. 


CHAPTER  III 
MHAEN  ArAN   IN  LITERATURE 

There  is  no  question  of  interpretation  connected  with  the 
first  meaning  oi'/jLTjdev  ixyav.  It  has  meant  "Nothing  too  much" 
first  and  always,  although,  of  course,  it  is  sometimes  assumed 
that  it  also  enjoins  the  avoidance  of  too  little.  Complications 
arise,  however,  as  soon  as  we  try  to  determine  in  how  far  it 
was  connected  with  the  doctrine  of  the  mean,  which  it  very 
naturally  suggests  at  once.  Is  it  the  "seed"  from  which  not 
only  earlier  allusions  to  the  mean  but  also  Aristotle's  Ethics 
"sprung,"  even  though  it  is  nowhere  referred  to  in  that  in- 
fluential work?  Was  it  in  some  degree  responsible  for,  or  merely 
an  expression  of,  the  Greek  sense  of  measure  and  harmony  in 
general?1  If  we  try  to  answer  such  questions  as  these,  we  are 
immediately  confronted  with  the  fact  that  ii-qbev  ayav  was  not 
the  only  maxim  which  suggested  the  mean,  even  in  the  early 
period.  Rather,  there  were  several  expressions  of  kindred  pur- 
port, two  of  which — "The  half  is  more  than  the  whole"  and 
"Due  measure  is  best"  (/catpos — apioTos) — occur  in  Hesiod;2 
whereas  fjirjdev  hyav  appears  for  the  first  time  in  Theognis. 
There  were  different  ways  of  saying  "The  mean  is  best"  in 
Greek;  but  one  of  these,  apiarov  jierpov,  which  we  find  first 
in  a  fragment  of  Evenus,3  who  flourished  in  the  latter  half  of 
the  fifth  century  B.C.,  apparently  came  to  prevail.  It  was  at- 
tributed to  Cleobulus,  and  appears  regularly,  as  does  firjdh 
aycu',  in  late  poems  and  other  passages  which  assign  a  maxim 
to  each  of  the  Seven  Wise  Men.  The  Romans  cite  its  Latin 
equivalent,  optimus  modus,  more  frequently  than  they  do  fi-qdev 

19 


20  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

ayav,  or  ne  quid  nimis;  and  it  would  seem  as  if  the  latter  really 
gained  and  held  its  prestige  largely  through  its  presence  on 
the  Delphic  temple.  It  is  even  possible  that  it  was  selected  for 
that  high  position,  rather  than  apiarov  [xirpov  or  a  similar 
phrase,  because  of  its  metrical  adaptability.  However  that 
may  be,  the  existence  of  other  synonymous  maxims  in  Greek 
literature  from  Hesiod  down  makes  it  impossible  to  determine 
whether  jjLrjdev  ayav  is  uppermost  in  the  writer's  mind  when  the 
idea  of  the  mean  is  mentioned  or  discussed,  unless  the  choice 
of  words  makes  it  apparent;  and  since  we  are  concerned  pri- 
marily with  fir]dev  ayav,  it  seems  well  to  limit  our  considera- 
tion to  those  passages  in  which  the  maxim  is  either  actually 
cited  or  apparently  indicated  by  the  phraseology.  Our  in- 
terest thus  centers  upon  the  various  experiences  and  situa- 
tions in  life  to  which  men  have  applied  the  precept  through 
the  centuries,  and  the  extent  to  which  it  has  met  with  their 
approval. 

As  has  been  said  above,  fxrjdev  ayav  occurs  first  in  Theognis, 
where  we  meet  it  four  times.4  In  three  of  these  passages  the 
poet  exhorts  his  young  friend  Cyrnus  not  to  be  unduly  excited, 
or  vexed,  over  the  state  of  affairs  (at  Megara);  and  in  the 
fourth  he  bids  him  not  to  be  too  downcast  when  matters  go 
wrong,  or  rejoice  overmuch  when  prospects  are  fair.  Pindar 
says  in  one  of  his  fragments  that  the  wise  (apparently  mean- 
ing philosophers)  praise  the  "nothing  in  excess''  excessively.5 
Among  the  tragic  poets,  the  maxim  occurs  most  frequently  in 
Aeschylus,  who  apparently  alludes  to  it  no  less  than  eight 
times;  whereas  Sophocles  alludes  to  it  but  twice,  and  Euripides 
once.  In  Aeschylus  it  is  directed  against  importuning  the  gods 
overmuch  in  the  Suppliants,6  against  excessive  urging  and 
blustering  speech  in  the  Prometheus,1  against  excessive  fear  in 
three  passages  of  the  Seven  against  Thebes*  against  excessive 


MHAEN  ArAN  IN  LITERATURE  21 

anger  in  the  Eumenides,9  and  against  thinking  too  highly  of 
mortal  things  in  a  fragment  of  the  Niobe.10  In  Sophocles  it  is 
directed  against  a  stubborn  spirit  in  the  Antigone,11  and  against 
excessive  grief  in  the  Oedipus  at  Colonus.12  And  in  Euripides' 
Hippolytus13  it  is  directed  against  becoming  too  absorbed  in 
one's  devotion  to  another. 

Plato  cites  the  maxim  four  times — in  the  Protagoras  pas- 
sage quoted  in  chapter  i;14  in  the  Charmides,15  where  it  is  men- 
tioned incidentally  in  connection  with  a  discussion  of  yvCodi 
aeavrbv;  and  in  the  Philebus  and  the  Menexenus.  We  find  it 
also  in  the  pseudo-Platonic  Hipparchus16  where  it  is  said  that 
the  tyrant  set  up  herms  in  every  deme,  inscribed  with  epigrams 
of  his  own  composing,  that  the  people  might  not  wonder  at 
the  wise  inscriptions  at  Delphi — the  yv&di  aavrov  and  the  fxrjdh 
ayav.  In  the  Philebus11  Socrates  raises  the  question  as  to  wheth- 
er bodily  pleasures  are  greater  in  sickness  or  in  health;  and 
his  interlocutor  replies  that  the  fxrjdev  ay&v  restrains  those  who 
possess  aaxf>poavvr]  (meaning  here,  "control  over  their  physical 
appetites")  from  excessive  indulgence,  while  the  excesses  of 
those  who  lack  that  virtue  make  them  cry  aloud  to  the  point 
of  madness.  In  the  Menexenus,18  Aspasia  is  setting  forth  what 
those  who  died  in  the  first  year  of  the  Peloponnesian  War 
would  have  wished  said  to  their  parents  in  case  they  should 
not  return,  and  the  burden  of  their  message  is  that  their  parents 
shall  not  mourn  excessively.  She  represents  them  as  saying 
on  the  eve  of  battle: 

The  ancient  precept  /x^Sev  ayav  seems  to  be,  and  really  is,  well  spoken. 
The  man  who  relies  on  himself  for  his  happiness,  and  does  not  cling  to 
others  and  so  become  obliged  to  suffer  their  vicissitudes  of  fortune,  is 
well  balanced,  brave,  and  wise.  When  money  or  children  come  to  him  or 
leave  him,  he  will  always  obey  the  maxim,  for  he  will  appear  neither  to 
rejoice  nor  to  grieve  in  excess. 


22  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

And  then,  applying  the  maxim  to  their  own  case,  the  young 
men  are  made  to  declare  that  they  are  "not  distressed  or  fear- 
ful overmuch"  if  they  must  die  forthwith. 

We  have  said  that  wbev  ayav  is  not  to  be  found  in  Aris- 
totle's Ethics,  but  it  is  quoted  in  two  connections  in  the 
Rhetoric.  He  refers  to  it  first  in  describing  the  character- 
istics of  Youth  and  Old  Age.19  "Young  men  err  on  the  side  of 
excess  and  violence  in  everything,"  he  says,  "contrary  to  that 
maxim  of  Chilon's.  For  they  do  everything  too  much.  They 
love  too  much  and  they  hate  too  much,  and  everything  else 
in  like  manner.  And  they  imagine  that  they  know  everything, 
and  affirm  everything  with  emphatic  confidence.  This  confi- 
dence, in  fact,  is  the  cause  of  their  going  too  far  in  everything." 
But  the  aged  err  the  other  way.  With  them,  "everything  is 
stressed  less  than  it  ought  to  be20 — They  always  add  a  'perhaps' 
or  a  'possibly' — and  say  nothing  with  certainty.  They  neither 
love  too  much  nor  hate  too  much,  but  according  to  the  pre- 
cept of  Bias,  they  love  as  if  they  were  going  to  hate  thereafter, 
and  hate  as  if  they  were  going  to  love."  Since  Youth  and  Old 
Age  act  contrary  to  the  precept,  we  are  led  to  infer  that  Mid- 
dle Age,  which  Aristotle  next  describes  as  a  mean  between 
these  two  periods  of  life,  observes  it;  and  thus  in  the  Rhetoric, 
if  not  in  the  Ethics,  Aristotle  does  connect  the  doctrine  of  the 
mean  with  firjdev  ayav.  In  his  chapter  on  the  use  of  maxims 
for  rhetorical  effect,  Aristotle  says,  "Maxims  may  be  cited  in 
a  spirit  of  contradiction  of  those  that  have  become  public 
property  (by  public  property  I  mean,  for  instance,  the  yvddi 
cravrbv  and  the  ix-qhlv  ayav)  whenever  one's  character  is  to  ap- 
pear in  a  more  favorable  light  thereby,  or  whenever  they  are 
uttered  under  stress  of  emotion."21  He  then  proceeds  to  illus- 
trate the  use  of  yvoodi  aeavrov  in  expressing  strong  emotion, 


MHAEN  ArAN  IN  LITERATURE  23 

and  of  fjLr]dh  ayw  in  revealing  character.  Taking  up  the  old 
precept  of  Bias,  quoted  above,  he  says: 

Our  character  is  put  in  a  better  light  by  saying  that  one  ought  not, 
as  the  saying  goes,  to  love  people  with  reservation,  as  if  we  were  going  to 
hate  them,  but  we  should  rather  hate  as  if  we  were  going  to  love  them 
thereafter.  We  must  show  our  moral  purpose  by  the  way  in  which  we  say 
it,  or  else  add  the  reason  for  our  attitude,  as  if  one  should  say,  ".  .  . .  The 
saying  <of  Bias)  does  not  please  me,  for  the  true  friend  must  love  as  if  he 
were  going  to  love  forever.  And  the  fxrjSev  ayav  does  not  please  me,  either; 
for  one  should  at  least  hate  the  wicked  exceedingly." 

Most  of  the  allusions  to  ix-qhev  dyav  in  later  Greek  literature 
are  largely  incidental.  Diodorus  Siculus  tells  an  unusual  story 
to  illustrate  the  maxim,  however,  and  there  are  a  few  passages 
in  Plutarch  and  in  the  Palatine  Anthology  which  call  for  men- 
tion. Diodorus  Siculus'  story22  is  somewhat  similar  in  char- 
acter to  the  one  in  which  he  illustrates  the  general  meaning  of 
eyyva,  irapa  5'  arrj.  Regarding  /jLrjdev  ixyav,  he  says  that  it  means 
"to  be  moderate  in  all  things,  and  not  be  entirely  divided  in 
any  human  contention";  and  then  he  tells  of  how  the  people 
of  Epidamnus  in  a  period  of  civil  strife  sunk  masses  of  hot 
iron  in  the  sea,  and  swore  that  they  would  not  lay  aside  their 
enmity  until  the  iron  was  recovered  hot.  But  although  they 
swore  so  harshly  and  made  no  effort  to  obey  the  whev  aya?>, 
they  later  became  reconciled  perforce,  and  left  the  hot  iron 
cold  in  the  depths  of  the  waters. 

We  have  already  referred  to  certain  passages  in  which 
Plutarch  speaks  of  the  importance  of  the  Delphic  maxims,  and 
of  his  admiration  for  them.  In  his  Consolation  to  Apollonius23 
he  declares  that  yvcodi  aeavrov  and  ^bev  ayav  are  included  each 
in  the  other,  and  he  evidently  applies  them  to  a  recognition  of 
our  mortal  state  with  its  limitations,24  which  should  keep  us 
from  becoming  arrogant  in  prosperity  or  giving  way  to  com- 


24  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

plaint  in  times  of  adversity.  In  his  Banquet  of  the  Seven  Wise 
Men,25  he  not  only  attempts  in  a  spirit  of  jest  to  connect  the 
three  maxims  severally  with  passages  in  Homer,  but  he  applies 
fxr]8ev  aya*>  to  the  matter  of  credulity  regarding  the  stories  which 
the  guests  have  been  telling — such  as  the  tale  of  Arion  and  the 
dolphin,  for  instance.  Pittacus  is  speaking,  and  declaring  that 
these  stories  are  not  past  belief,  and  presently  he  turns  to 
Solon  and  says: 

In  a  word,  if  one  should  know  how  to  distinguish  the  impossible  from 
the  unusual,  and  what  is  beyond  reason  from  what  is  beyond  one's  ex- 
pectation, especially  if  he  chances  to  be  neither  too  credulous  nor  too 
incredulous,  he  would  keep  your  commandment,  the  fMrjSkv  ayav. 

In  one  of  the  late  epigrams  in  the  Palatine  Anthology  the 
precept  is  quoted  as  a  rebuke  to  a  certain  Gessius,  whose  un- 
due ambition  has  brought  him  to  his  death,  even  as  Bellero- 
phon  met  his  doom  when  he  soared  too  high  on  Pegasus.26 
In  another,27  an  arrogant  lover  who  has  been  brought  to  his 
knees  by  his  sweetheart's  recent  assertiveness,  applies  it  to  his 
former  folly.  A  third  epigram,  by  Alpheius  of  Mitylene,  merits 
quotation  here: 

No  deep-soiled  fields  I  crave  to  own, 
Nor  wealth  of  Gyges  rich  in  gold; 
Enough  to  meet  the  needs  of  life 
Is  all  I  wish,  Macrinus  mine: 
M^Sev  ayav  o'er  pleases  me.28 

The  maxim  is  applied  to  one's  style  of  living  in  Hierocles'  com- 
mentary on  ixirpov  aptarov  in  the  Golden  Verses  of  the  Pyth- 
agoreans,29 where  we  read  that  we  might  avoid  the  ill-will 
which  arises  toward  those  who  excel,  if  with  the  help  of  fxrjdev 
aycu>  we  should  give  no  occasion  for  criticism  by  living  too 
delicately  or  too  rudely. 

The  earliest  quotation  of  the  maxim  in  Latin  literature  is 


MHAEN  ArAN  IN  LITERATURE  25 

found  in  Terence's  Andria.30  The  old  man  Simo  tells  his 
slave  Sosia  of  his  gratification  over  the  way  in  which  his  son 
engages  in  the  pursuits  common  to  the  young  men  of  his  day — 
the  training  of  horses,  or  of  dogs  for  hunting,  and  the  attend- 
ing upon  the  philosophers — in  a  similar  and  moderate  degree, 
and  Sosia  assures  him  that  he  has  reason  to  be  pleased,  for 
ne  quid  nimis  is  of  prime  value  in  life.  The  maxim  is  next  cited 
in  a  fragment  of  Varro,31  which  advises  men  to  act  as  becomes 
mortals.  It  does  not  occur  in  Horace  at  all,  and  it  plays  a 
negligible  part  in  the  philosophical  essays  of  Cicero  and  of 
Seneca,  despite  the  large  place  which  all  three  writers  give  to 
the  doctrine  of  the  mean.  Cicero  merely  quotes  the  "Mene- 
xenus"  passage  in  his  Tusculan  Disputations32  and  mentions 
nihil  nimis  in  his  De  Finibus33  among  the  precepts  of  the  philos- 
ophers which  would  have  little  force  without  natural  philoso- 
phy. Seneca  mentions  it  in  one  of  his  Moral  Epistles34  among  the 
precepts  which  "fall  upon  our  ears  with  a  certain  blow";  and 
he  may  have  it  in  mind  in  his  essay  on  Tranquillity35  in  the 
passage  in  which  he  questions  the  value  of  an  extensive  library, 
for  he  says  that  "what  is  excessive  is  everywhere  a  vice,"  al- 
though the  real  text  of  the  whole  passage  is  the  optimus  modus 
which  he  definitely  expresses.  It  is  Pliny  who  tells  us  that  the 
three  maxims  were  written  in  letters  of  gold,  but  he  says  noth- 
ing of  their  application  to  life.  Hieronymus  quotes  the  maxim 
in  two  letters  as  an  admonition  against  excessive  grief;36  and 
in  a  third,37  addressed  to  a  "Christian  virgin,  first  in  rank  and 
wealth  in  the  Roman  world,"  as  a  caution  against  immoderate 
fasting,  "by  which  delicate  frames  become  broken  in  health." 
The  only  other  discussion  of  the  maxim  of  any  consequence 
which  we  have  been  able  to  find  in  the  Latin  literature  of  the 
Classical  period  occurs  in  Ausonius'  Masque  of  the  Seven  Sages, 
where  Cleobulus  the  Lindian  treats  it  as  virtually  identical 


26  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

with  his  own  optimus  modus,  and  says  that  "both  signify  mod- 
eration in  speaking,  in  keeping  silence,  in  sleeping,  in  staying 
awake,  in  benefits,  in  favors,  in  wrongs,  in  study,  and  in  toil — 
in  fact,  in  all  of  life." 

A  consideration  of  these  passages  in  Greek  and  Latin  litera- 
ture, taken  collectively,  indicates  the  fact  that  the  maxim  was 
applied  to  mental  states  much  more  frequently  than  to  con- 
duct, and  that  its  direct  applications  to  one's  physical  desires 
is  limited  to  the  passage  in  the  Philebus  where  it  is  connected 
with  that  cardinal  virtue  aoxfrpoavvT].  As  applied  to  mental 
states,  it  is  directed  most  frequently  against  excessive  grief, 
whether  over  the  loss  of  a  friend  or  the  loss  of  property;  but 
it  is  also  directed  against  excessive  joy,  fear,  anger,  love,  and 
hatred.  And  again  it  is  directed  against  excessive  pride  and 
ambition  in  several  passages.  In  the  late  period  especially  we 
find  it  applied  to  one's  outward  manner  of  living,  and  there  is  a 
tendency  to  connect  it  with  apicrTov  ixerpov.  The  idea  that  men 
may  go  too  far  in  their  esteem  for  the  maxim  and  the  philosophy 
of  life  which  it  represents  is  as  old  as  Pindar,  apparently,  and 
is  implied  by  Aristotle  as  well  as  by  one  of  the  epigrams  in  the 
Anthology — a  criticism  which  becomes  more  pronounced  in  lat- 
er literature.  The  ancients,  as  a  rule,  however,  reverenced  their 
li-qhev  a^ojv\  and  whatever  their  practice  in  common  life,  they 
rarely  spoke  of  it  in  their  literature  in  other  than  a  dignified 
connection. 

As  we  have  already  indicated,  this  maxim  is  seldom  found 
in  the  literature  of  the  Middle  Ages.  It  occurs,  however,  in 
St.  Bernard's  treatise  on  Consideration,  in  two  letters  by  Peter 
Cellensis,  and  in  the  Polycraticus  of  John  of  Salisbury;  and  it 
is  probable  that  a  more  thorough  combing  of  ecclesiastical 
writings  might  reveal  a  few  more  instances  of  the  kind.  St. 
Bernard  of  Clairevaux  quotes  it  in  a  chapter  in  which  he  shows 


MHAEN  ArAN  IN  LITERATURE  27 

that  from  piety  and  contemplation  there  arises  a  beautiful 
harmony  of  the  four  cardinal  virtues,38  and  he  introduces  the 
maxim  in  connection  with  his  definition  of  temper antia.  "It 
seems  to  me/'  he  says,  "that  he  is  not  giving  a  bad  definition 
of  temperantia  who  says  that  it  means  neither  to  fall  short  of 
what  is  necessary,  nor  to  exceed  it,  in  accordance  with  that 
saying  of  the  philosopher  ne  quid  nimis."  One  of  Peter  Cellen- 
sis'  letters,39  addressed  to  Father  Berneredus  and  the  brethren 
of  the  convent  of  SS.  Crispinus  and  Crispianus,  advises  them 
to  forget  the  past  and  press  forward,  but  to  avoid  straining  too 
much  and  stretching  the  rope  so  hard  that  it  breaks.  "Est 
modus  in  things,"  he  adds,  "ne  quid  nimis."  In  his  other  let- 
ter,40 addressed  to  the  same  "Father,"  he  takes  him  to  task  for 

living  intemperanter,  exceeding  due  measure  in  living  not  supra  but 
infra.  For  the  precept  which  says  nequid  nimis  is  directed  against  the 
less  as  well  as  the  more.  To  eat  too  much  is  the  part  of  a  greedy  man, 
too  little  the  part  of  a  hypocrite  or  a  miser.  The  Apostle  knows  how  to 
abound  and  to  surfer  want.  That  man  is  equipped  to  live  after  the  rule  in 
all  things  who  neither  stoops  toward  the  lower  nor  stretches  up  toward 
the  higher,  but  makes  his  way  well  in  a  straight  line. 

John  of  Salisbury41  in  his  Polycraticus,  Bk.  I,  c.  iv,  is  speaking 
of  hunting  and  saying  that  one  should  know  where  he  can  exer- 
cise the  sport  legitimately  and  without  disturbance,  for 

he  who  rushes  into  another's  preserve  with  rash  usurpation  is  held  in  the 
toils  of  the  law  for  punishment.  In  truth,  that  principle  of  measure  is 
praiseworthy  when  it  is  exercised  with  due  moderation  prudently,  and  as 
far  as  possible,  usefully,  so  that  one  conforms  to  the  advice  of  the  comic 
poet,  Ne  quid  nimis. 

He  says  further  that  nothing  is  more  disgraceful  than  to  make 
people  laugh  at  us  for  insisting  on  practicing  an  art  of  which 
we  know  nothing,  without  proposing  to  learn,  as  if  we  should 
facetiously  attempt  to  speak  a  language  which  we  did  not 
know.42 


28  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

The  forerunner  of  the  Renaissance  in  Italy,  Petrarch,  cites 
the  maxim  in  his  dialogue  on  "A  Copious  Supply  of  Books,"43 
the  main  thought  of  which  he  owes  to  Seneca.44  Reason  (Ratio) 
and  Pleasure  (Gaudium)  are  talking,  and  Reason  says  that 
in  the  case  of  books,  as  in  that  of  meals,  their  use  should  be 
limited  to  one's  capacity  to  digest  them.  In  all  things,  what 
is  too  little  for  one  is  too  much  for  another.  And  so  the  wise 
man  does  not  wish  for  an  abundance  but  for  a  sufficiency. 
Pleasure  remarks  that  the  supply  of  books  is  immensa,  and 
Reason  replies: 

Immensa  means  without  measure,  but  there  is  also  an  optuma.  In 
this  case  also  we  must  distinguish  between  what  is  without  measure  and 
what  is  best.  Immoderation  is  to  be  avoided,  and  we  should  always  hold 
before  our  eyes  that  saying  of  the  comic  poet,  Ne  quid  nimis. 

With  the  coming  of  the  Renaissance  in  France  and  Eng- 
land and  Spain,  the  sluggish  interest  in  the  Delphic  maxims 
leaps  up  afresh;  and  the  literature  of  the  sixteenth  and  seven- 
teenth centuries  may  almost  be  said  to  abound  in  comments 
upon  them.  As  in  the  Classical  period,  of  course,  jvojOl  aeavrbv 
receives  much  wider  attention,  but  fjirjdev  a^av  comes  in  for  a 
reasonable  share.  We  find  it  several  times  in  the  works  of 
Erasmus,  for  he  cites  it  in  his  Adagio,  in  one  of  his  Letters, 
and  more  than  once  in  the  Colloquies.  In  the  Adagio  it  is  given 
under  the  title  "Modestia  Modusque,"  where  it  is  referred  to 
Terence  and  illustrated  by  a  Latin  rendering  of  a  passage  from 
the  Odyssey45 — the  passage  in  which  Menelaus  tells  Telema- 
chus,  when  eager  to  start  for  home,  that  he  will  not  detain  him, 
adding,  "I  feel  annoyed  at  another  host  even  who  welcomes 
overmuch  and  hates  overmuch.  It  is  better  that  all  things  be 
in  fitting  measure  (aiVijua)." 

In  a  letter  to  William  Blount,  Lord  Mountjoy,46  in  which 
Erasmus  devotes  several  pages  to  a  discussion  of  proverbs, 


MHAEN  ArAN  IN  LITERATURE 


29 


he  says,  near  the  close,  "You  have  a  letter  verbosam  et  prover- 
biosam,  naturally  in  dealing  with  proverbs — a  letter  in  which 
I  fear  that  I  have  been  unmindful  of  that  very  old  adage 
nihil  nimis."  In  the  Colloquies,  the  maxim  is  cited  first  in  the 
"Game  of  Ball,"  where  the  boys  exclaim  toward  the  end, 


Fig.  5 


"Night  is  already  at  hand,  and  we  have  sweat  enough.  It  is 
better  to  cease  from  playing.  Ne  quid  nimis.  Let  us  reckon 
our  winnings."  At  the  close  of  the  "Unequal  Feast,"  the  would- 
be  host  is  bidden  not  to  be  too  anxious  to  please  everyone  with 
his  after-dinner  entertainment,  "or  in  fact,  in  life  as  a  whole, 
for  so  he  will  the  sooner  please  all.  For  it  is  best  in  life  <to 
observe)  Ne  quid  nimis."  And  again  in  the  "Lover  of  Glory,"47 


So  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

one  of  the  interlocutors  says,  "Remember  in  everything  ne  quid 
nimis,  but  mediocriter  omnia.  Be  easy  in  bearing  with  the  man- 
ners of  others,  shutting  your  eyes  to  lighter  faults;  and  be  not 
too  tenacious  of  your  own  opinion,  but  adapt  yourself  to  the 
eager  attitude  of  other  people." 

Mrjbev  ayav,  like  its  companion  maxims,  occurs  in  the 
Masque  of  the  Seven  Sages  of  Joachim  Camerarius,  where  it  is 
assigned  to  Pittacus48  and  to  Thales;49  and  we  find  it  variously  il- 
lustrated in  the  emblem  literature  of  the  Renaissance.  Came- 
rarius himself  wrote  an  emblem  entitled  "Nothing  beyond 
One's  Strength,"50  illustrated  with  a  picture  of  a  loaded  camel 
lying  down  (Fig.  5).SI  The  verse  reads:  "Do  not  imprudently 
place  too  much  on  tender  shoulders,  and  bring  the  brave  man 
low  with  an  unjust  weight."  In  the  explanation  which  follows 
we  learn  that  it  is  characteristic  of  the  camel  to  kneel  while  be- 
ing loaded,  and  that  when  it  has  enough  of  a  load,  it  rises  and 
goes  forward  with  alacrity;  but  if  overloaded,  it  lies  down  or 
shakes  off  the  load.  We  are  warned  by  this  to  keep  the  golden 
mean  in  all  things,  the  author  tells  us,  adding,  "The  Delphic 
saying  firjdh  ayav,  which  Terence  expresses  in  Latin  by  ne  quid 
nimis,  teaches  us  this." 

Andrea  Alciati  includes  prjbbr  ayav,  of  course,  in  the  emblem 
entitled  "Dicta  Septem  Sapientum"  (Fig.  4,  p.  17).52  He  repre- 
sents the  optimus  modus  of  Cleobulus  by  a  pair  of  scales,  but  ne 
quid  nimis  is  illustrated  with  a  sprig  of  gith — a  plant  which  is 
described  as  very  dark  and  excellent,  with  a  stimulating  fra- 
grance. If  added  to  food  in  very  small  quantities,  it  gives  a 
pleasing  taste,  it  is  said;  but  if  too  much  is  taken,  it  acts  as  a 
poison.  Most  commentators  think  the  plant  a  diminutive  pep- 
per. Jacob  Cats  has  an  emblem  in  his  book  entitled  Proteus,53 
which  is  illustrated  by  a  picture  of  Pan  clasping  the  flames  of  a 
vigorous  fire.  At  length  there  comes  a  poem  entitled  "Nequid 


MHAEN  ArAN  IN  LITERATURE 


3i 


Nimis,"  which  begins  as  follows:  "Enough,  Pan!  Let  thy 
frame  grow  warm  from  the  fire  with  due  measure.  Why, 
wretch,  dost  thou  rush  into  the  names  to  thy  ruin?  All  ex- 
cessive love  is  bad:  A  wife  can  love  too  much,  and  so  can  a 
child,  and  a  father  and  mother."  Another  emblem,  by  Box- 


Fig.  6 


horn,54  bears  the  title  "Nequid  nimis"  and  is  illustrated  by  a 
picture  of  a  barrel  bursting  its  hoops  (Fig.  6).  In  the  commen- 
tary we  read  that  a  king  who  is  about  to  attack  an  enemy 
should  not  close  him  in  on  all  sides,  for  he  will  be  forced  to 
exercise  greater  valor.  Likewise,  after  a  victory  the  people 
should  not  be  treated  cruelly,  for  cruelty  makes  them  unwill- 


32 


THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 


ing  to  submit.  The  more  you  press  a  serpent,  the  more  poison 
it  discharges. 

Perhaps,  next  to  the  emblems  of  Alciati,  none  were  more 
famous  than  the  hundred  "symbols"  of  Saavedra  Fajardo,  each 


Fig.  7 


of  which  is  accompanied  by  an  essay  under  the  general  title 
Idea  de  un  Principe  Cristiano-Politico.  One  of  these  symbols 
is  entitled  "Ne  quid  nimis,"55  and  the  illustrative  picture  rep- 
resents a  field  of  ripe  grain  with  the  heads  broken  under  the 
force  of  a  heavy  rain  storm  (Fig.  7).  Fajardo  says  in  his  essay 


MHAEN  ArAN  IN  LITERATURE  33 

that  this  motto  was  celebrated  in  antiquity  and  was  attributed 
to  Pythagoras,  Bias,  Thales,  and  Homer,  but  it  is  to  be  referred 
to  the  Delphic  oracle  with  better  reason,  because  it  is  divine 
and  worthy  to  be  inscribed  on  the  crowns  and  scepters  and 
rings  of  princes.  He  quotes  from  one  of  Seneca's  epistles  about 
preferring  medio  era  to  nimia,  and  explains  his  picture,  and  then 
he  goes  on  to  indicate  certain  matters  in  which  a  ruler  should 
apply  the  maxim.  He  should  not  oppress  his  subjects,  or  re- 
sort to  excessive  punishment;  he  should  moderate  his  desires 
and  follow  his  reason  rather  than  his  wish;  he  should  curb 
his  ambition  for  more  power,  as  did  Cyrus  when,  after  con- 
quering Lydia,  he  gave  it  back  to  Croesus  and  so  avoided  war 
with  Greece;  he  should  govern  more  as  a  father  than  as  a 
master,  but  he  should  avoid  being  too  lax  as  well  as  being  too 
severe.  Excessive  wealth  on  the  part  of  some  citizens,  he  adds, 
causes  ruin,  as  at  Florence,  or  unrest,  as  at  Genoa;  and  only  the 
prudent  ruler  who  governs  in  fear  of  the  law,  without  abandon- 
ing his  privileges  to  his  inferiors  or  deferring  to  the  rich,  can  save 
the  state  under  such  conditions.  He  should  guide  the  state  as 
the  charioteers  of  old  drove  their  chariots — so  that  the  wheels 
might  pass  as  near  the  goal  as  possible  without  grazing  it. 
Emperor  Ferdinand  II  was  such  a  ruler,  he  says,  and  his  son 
has  some  of  the  same  qualities. 

Two  other  emblems  which  refer  to  fxrjdev  ayav  occur  in  a 
collection  by  an  unknown  author,  published  at  Amsterdam 
in  1704.  One  of  these  has  for  its  motto  "The  Happy  Keep 
the  Mean,"  and  is  illustrated  by  a  picture  of  a  boy  climbing 
a  ladder.56  Quotations  from  Hesiod,  Pindar,  Plautus,  and 
Horace  follow,  and  the  citation  of  yv&dt,  aeavrov,  which  is  said 
to  commend  "modesty  and  mediocrity"  (apparently  under  the 
influence  of  Erasmus'  Adagio),  as  well  as  wdev  ayav.  The  other 
emblem  is  entitled  "Every  Excess  Becomes  a  Vice,"  and  is 


34  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

illustrated  by  a  picture  of  the  sun's  rays  beating  violently  upon 
a  tree57;  while  among  the  quotations  from  ancient  authors,  in 
the  discussion  which  follows  the  verses,  is  the  last  line  of  the 
epigram  by  Alpheius  of  Mitylene,  which  we  quoted  above,  to 
the  effect  that  firjdev  aycu>  is  overpleasing.  Another  emblem  in 
the  same  collection58  has  a  picture  of  a  snail  climbing  up  the 
branch  of  a  vine,  and  the  couplet : 

Do  not  ascend  too  far  (ne  nimium  ascendas).  High  places  are  not  safe. 
The  road  which  is  less  steep  is  better  suited  to  thee. 

Among  the  many  pictorial  representations  which  illustrate 
some  phrase  expressing  the  mean,  though  without  any  ac- 
companying mention  of  jir)bev  dyav,  doubtless  the  best  known 
is  one  of  the  Emblems  of  Q.  Horatius  Flaccus  by  Octavio  van 
Veen,59  illustrating  " Virtus  est  medium  vitiorum  in  utrimque 
reductum"  (Ep.  i.  18.  9)  and  "Est  modus  in  rebus  .  .  .  ." 
{Sat.  i.  1.  106).  The  picture  (Fig.  8)  represents  three  women 
in  the  role  of  Avarice,  Liberality,  and  Prodigality,  respectively, 
standing  on  the  diameter  of  a  circle,  with  Liberality  in  the 
center.  Avarice  is  an  old  woman  with  a  large  sack  of  gold 
at  her  feet,  hugging  a  wallet  to  her  bosom.  Prodigality  is 
young,  and  throws  handfuls  of  gold  lightly  over  her  head. 
Liberality,  with  a  cornucopia  in  her  left  hand,  and  an  instru- 
ment which  a  Spanish  edition60  tells  us  symbolizes  "rule  and 
measure  of  distribution,"  in  her  right,  looks  neither  to  right 
nor  left.  In  the  sky  overhead  Daedalus  and  Icarus  are  flying, 
with  Icarus  perilously  near  to  the  large  sun  and  already  be- 
ginning to  fall.  The  poem  makes  the  comment  that  Icarus 
would  not  have  fallen  so  far  if  he  had  not  flown  so  high.61 
Icarus  is  again  pictured  falling  from  the  sky  in  an  emblem  by 
Sambucus  under  the  title  "Nimium  sapere"62;  while  in  saiim- 
prese  of  one  Gabriel  Zaias,  which  bears  the  motto  "Medio 


MHAEN  ArAN  IN  LITERATURE 


35 


tutissimus  ibis,"  Phaethon  is  seen  on  the  point  of  setting  out 
on  his  perilous  journey.63 

We  find  Icarus  and  Phaethon  also  represented  in  Baltasar 
Gracian's  El  Criticon,64  in  his  description  of  the  column  erected 


Fig.  8 


at  the  point  where  three  roads  meet.  The  El  Criticon  is  the 
story  of  a  man  named  Andrenio,  who  lived  until  manhood  in 
a  dark  cave  on  the  island  of  St.  Helena.  Then  one  day  an 
earthquake  burst  the  cave  open,  and  he  came  forth  into  the 


36  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

light.  At  length  he  rescues  a  man  from  the  sea,  Critilo  by 
name,  who  later  turns  out  to  be  his  father,  and  together  they 
embark  on  a  passing  steamer  bound  for  Spain.  Once  in  Spain, 
they  set  out  on  foot  to  find  men;  and  as  they  travel  on,  they 
come  to  a  crossroad  where  a  stone  pillar  has  been  erected, 
bearing  the  inscription  "In  all  things  there  is  a  mean.  Depart 
not  to  the  extremes."  Not  only  are  Icarus  and  Phaethon  rep- 
resented on  the  column,  but  Cleobulus  is  also  there,  of  whom 
it  is  told  that  in  answer  to  three  epistles  which  a  certain  king 
wrote  to  him  demanding  his  advice,  he  replied  each  time  with 
the  single  word,  Modus.  Cleobulus  is  eternally  known,  Gracian 
says,  "for  that  one  sentence,  In  all  things  avoid  excess,  as  if  to 
exceed  were  always  more  dangerous  than  to  be  deficient." 
All  of  the  virtues  have  been  inscribed  on  the  column  in  order, 
each  between  its  two  extremes,  and  at  the  top  is  Prudence, 
saying,  "For  him  who  knows  a  mediocrity  in  wealth."  Most 
people  rush  to  the  outer  roads,  but  Andrenio  and  Critilo  take 
the  middle  way,  which  leads  upward.  Farther  on  in  the  El 
Criticon,65  Andrenio  and  his  companion  visit  a  great  fair — the 
Fair  of  the  World — where  all  sorts  of  things  are  sold,  among 
them  works  without  words,  sold  by  Thales.  Pittacus  is  there, 
too,  but  he  does  not  sell  anything;  rather,  he  "makes  prices 
more  moderate,  balancing  the  scales,  and  recommending  every- 
where his  Ne  quid  nimis" 

It  is  not  a  very  far  cry  from  some  of  the  emblems  described 
above  to  one  of  the  Fables  of  La  Fontaine,  likewise  illustrated 
with  a  picture,  and  bearing  the  title  "Rien  de  Trop."66  The 
fable  tells  us  that  in  the  whole  creation  we  look  for  moderation 
in  vain.  There  is  a  certain  mean  which  the  Lord  of  Nature 
wanted  all  to  keep,  but  it  is  never  kept.  Grain,  if  overgrown, 
exhausts  the  ground,  and  if  it  has  too  many  leaves,  it  detracts 
from  the  harvest;  and  the  same  is  true  of  a  tree.  To  keep  the 


MHAEN  ArAN  IN  LITERATURE 


37 


grain  within  bounds,  the  Lord  let  sheep  in  to  eat  some  of 
the  leaves;  but  the  sheep  ate  it  down  and  spoiled  it.  Heaven 
then  sent  wolves  to  prey  upon  the  sheep ;  and  the  wolves  killed 
them  all,  or  tried  to.  Then  Heaven  let  men  come  and  punish 
the  wolves,  and  they  in  turn  abused  their  orders.  Of  all  ani- 


Fig.  9 


mals,  man  is  the  most  prone  to  carry  things  to  excess.  This 
is  true  of  high  and  low,  and  there  is  not  a  living  soul  who  does 
not  sin  in  this  respect.  Rien  de  trop,  the  fable  concludes,  "is 
something  of  which  men  are  continually  talking,  but  they  do 
not  observe  it  at  all."  The  illustrator  of  this  fable  has  tried 
to  get  the  whole  story  into  his  picture,  for  he  has  the  grain, 
the  dead  sheep,  the  wolves,  and  the  men  shooting  them  with 
their  arrows  (Fig.  9). 


38  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

Other  works  of  the  sixteenth  and  seventeenth  centuries  in 
which  reference  is  made  to  ix-qhev  ayav  include  the  Ethica  of  the 
Belgian  philosopher  Geulincx;  Pascal's  Pensees;  three  essays 
by  the  Italian  moral  philosopher  Speroni;  a  treatise  by  Dona 
Oliva  Sabuco  de  Nantes  Barrera,  a  sixteenth-century  Spanish 
scholar  whose  main  interests  were  philosophy  and  medicine; 
Burton's  Anatomy  of  Melancholy;  Milton's  Paradise  Lost;  and 
a  work  on  Christian  Moderation  by  Joseph  Hall,  of  which  the 
maxim  may  be  said  to  form  the  keynote.67  In  eighteenth-cen- 
tury literature,  the  apothegm  occurs  chiefly  in  a  humorous 
poem  by  the  German  poet  Seume,  in  The  Spectator,  and  in  one 
of  Lord  Chesterfield's  Letters  to  His  Son.  In  the  more  modern 
period  we  find  it  in  the  philosophical  works  of  Hegel  and 
Schopenhauer,  and  in  the  writings  of  Nietzsche;  it  serves  as 
the  title  of  poems  by  Ferrucci68  and  De  Spuches,69  and  as  a 
chapter  heading  in  Thomas  Hughes'  Tom  Brown  at  Oxford;  it 
occurs  in  the  works  of  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes,  James  Russell 
Lowell,  the  present-day  poet,  Reginald  Robbins,  and  in  the 
valuable  essay  by  Paul  Elmer  More,  entitled  Delphi  in 
Greek  Literature;  and  there  is,  besides,  an  allusion  to  it,  though 
more  or  less  incidental,  in  various  critical  works.70  The  appli- 
cations given  the  maxim  show  no  real  development  with  the 
passing  of  the  centuries,  although  it  is  occasionally  applied 
to  some  situation  or  experience  not  connected  with  it  hitherto, 
and  we  may  therefore  classify  the  above  mentioned  passages 
topically  to  some  extent,  rather  than  attempt  to  recount  them 
chronologically. 

The  application  of  the  precept  to  physical  desires,  so  ex- 
ceedingly rare  in  Greek  literature,  occurs  more  frequently  in 
the  centuries  since  the  Renaissance.  The  earlier  chapters  of 
Hall's  Christian  Moderation  deal  with  "Pleasures  of  the 
Palate"  and  with  other  bodily  desires;  and  we  find  the  maxim 


MHAEN  ArAN  IN  LITERATURE  39 

used  of  the  "pleasures  of  the  palate"  in  Milton's  Paradise  Lost, 
in  one  of  Lord  Chesterfield's  Letters,  and,  along  with  other 
physical  activities,  in  Holmes'  Over  the  Teacups.  Hall's  allu- 
sion to  fxrjbh  aycu>  occurs  in  his  opening  chapter,  in  which  he 
tells  a  tale  so  similar  to  the  one  told  of  Cleobulus  in  Gracian's 
El  Criticon  that  it  is  evidently  borrowed.  He  says  that  Bro- 
miard  relates  the  story  of  how  King  Louis  of  France  once  re- 
quired his  clerk  to  write  down  the  best  word  he  had  ever 
learned,  and  he  wrote  mesure.  The  king  was  angry  at  first, 
but  when  he  was  shown  that  all  virtues  and  all  religious  and 
worthy  actions  are  regulated  by  this  one  word,  he  rested  satis- 
fied. Hall  adds  the  comment: 

And  so  he  well  might,  for  it  was  a  word  well  worthy  of  one  of  the 
Seven  Sages  of  Greece;  from  whom  indeed  it  was  borrowed,  and  onely 
put  into  a  new  coat.  For,  whiles  he  said  of  old  (for  his  Motto)  Nothing  too 
much,  he  meant  no  other  but  to  comprehend  both  extreames  under  the 
mention  of  one:  neither  in  his  sense  is  it  any  paradox  to  say,  that  too 
little  is  too  much;  ....  in  every  defect  there  is  an  excesse;  and  both  are  a 
transgression  of  Measure. 

Then,  as  we  have  said,  Hall  presently  discusses  moderation 
in  the  matter  of  eating  and  drinking.  In  Milton's  Paradise 
Lost,  XI,  530  fL,  Adam  asks  Michael  if  there  is  no  way  by 
which  man  can  die  without  pain,  and  Michael  replies : 

There  is  ....  if  thou  well  observe 

The  rule  of  not  too  much  by  temperance  taught 

In  what  thou  eat'st  and  drink'st,  seeking  from  thence 

Due  nourishment,  not  gluttonous  delight, 

Till  many  years  over  thy  head  return. 

So  may'st  thou  live,  till  like  ripe  fruit,  thou  drop 

Into  thy  mother's  lap,  or  be  with  ease 

Gather'd,  not  harshly  pluck'd,  for  death  mature. 

Lord  Chesterfield  counsels  his  son,  who  is  in  Verona,  against 
the  use  of  cold  liquors  when  he  is  very  hot,  and  against  eating 


4o  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

too  much  fruit,  and  he  adds,  "Ne  quid  nimis  is  a  most  excellent 
rule  in  everything;  but  commonly  the  least  observed,  by  people 
of  your  age,  in  anything."71  Holmes  in  Over  the  Teacups12  is 
talking  of  longevity  and  the  way  to  attain  it,  and  he  says : 

One  of  the  Seven  Wise  Men  of  Greece  boiled  down  his  wisdom  into 
two  words,  fjLrjSh  ayav — nothing  too  much.  It  is  a  rule  which  will  apply  to 
food,  exercise,  labor,  sleep,  and  in  short,  to  every  part  of  life.  This  is  not  a 
very  difficult  matter,  if  one  begins  in  good  season  and  forms  regular 
habits. 

Succeeding  chapters  in  Book  I  of  Hall's  Christian  Mod- 
eration deal  with  other  forms  of  desire,  such  as  love,  and  with 
other  topics  with  which  the  apothegm  is  connected  in  Greek 
literature — namely,  wealth,  honor,  sorrow,  fear,  and  anger — 
while  Book  II  contains  twelve  rules  for  moderation  in  matters 
of  judgment.  Geulincx,  in  his  Ethica,™  applies  the  maxim  to 
several  of  the  virtues  in  Aristotle's  catalogue,  asking,  for  in- 
stance, "Have  you  decided  to  be  liberal?  Ne  quid  nimis,  Avoid 
being  prodigal.  Have  you  decided  to  be  frugal?  Ne  quid  nimis, 
Avoid  being  miserly."  It  is  always  Ne  quid  nimis,  he  says. 
Another  work  which  applies  the  maxim  specifically  to  several 
of  the  experiences  of  life  is  the  second  of  J.  G.  Seume's  Zwei 
Gereimte  Episteln,74  a  humorous  poem  in  doggerel  rhythm.  The 
first  part  is  written  in  German,  but  it  changes  to  Latin  with 

the  lines : 

Nee  ipsum  citavi 

Ac  plene  probavi, 

Attendas  imprimis, 

Ne  umquam  quid  nimis! 

Audisti  forsan, 

MrjSiv  tl  ayav! 

The  theme  continues  for  a  little,  applying  the  " golden  norm" 
to  physical  features,  to  eating  and  drinking,  to  controlling  one's 
anger,  etc.  Schopenhauer  considers  jx-qbev  aYap  as  virtually  a 


MHAEN  ArAN  IN  LITERATURE  41 

succinct  expression  of  Stoic  ethics,  for  he  says  in  his  Criticism 
of  Kant's  Philosophy:75 

Somewhere  near  the  end  of  the  first  book  I  have  explained  that  in  my 
opinion  the  Stoic  ethics  were  originally  nothing  else  than  an  injunction 
to  lead  a  properly  discreet  life.  Such  a  life  also  Horace  praises  repeatedly 
in  very  many  places.  Therein  is  understood  also  his  Nil  admirari  and 
therein  likewise  the  Delphic  /x^Sev  ayav. 

Returning  to  applications  of  the  maxim  to  single  experi- 
ences, it  is  applied  to  love,  not  only  in  Hall's  book,  but  in 
the  Coloquio  del  Conocimiento  de  si  Mismo  of  Dona  Oliva 
Sabuco  de  Nantes  Barrera,  a  physiological  work  in  which 
she  says  that  while  a  person  should  not  be  too  much  alone, 
since  the  solitary  life  tends  to  become  melancholy,  excessive 
love  is  very  bad  too;  and  she  advises  the  reader,  in  accordance 
with  the  saying  of  Chilon,  not  to  love  or  desire  anything  ex- 
cessively.76 It  is  to  the  experience  of  love,  too,  that  the  precept 
seems  to  pertain  in  chapter  xi  of  Thomas  Hughes'  Tom  Brown 
at  Oxford.  In  two  other  modern  works  it  is  directed  against 
undue  ambition — in  a  Greek  poem  by  Guiseppe  de  Spuches, 
which  has  Mrjdh  ay  ay  for  its  subtitle;  and  in  Nietzsche's  Dawn 
of  Day.  De  Spuches  applies  the  precept  to  certain  real  or  im- 
aginary individuals,  one  of  whom  is  so  swollen  with  ambition 
that  he  is  ridiculous,  while  another  is  proud  of  his  newly  made 
poem — all  too  patently  new — and  while  still  another  delights 
in  his  four-horse  chariot  and  in  a  train  of  flatterers  and  debtors, 
not  realizing  that  the  finger  of  scorn  awaits  him  and  the  pov- 
erty of  a  clamoring  fishmonger.  "Excess  always  watches  its 
opportunity  in  human  affairs,"  the  poet  says,  "and  all  that 
extends  beyond  due  measure  is  fraught  with  ridicule  and 
woe."77  Nietzsche  apparently  questions  the  merit  of  such 
statements  as  Browning's  "A  man's  reach  should  exceed  his 
grasp,"78  for  he^  writes: 


42  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

"Nothing  in  Excess!" — How  often  is  the  individual  recommended  to 
set  up  a  goal  which  it  is  beyond  his  power  to  reach,  in  order  that  he  may 
at  least  attain  that  which  lies  within  the  scope  of  his  abilities  and  most 
strenuous  efforts!  Is  it  really  so  desirable,  however,  that  he  should  do  so? 
Do  not  the  best  men  who  try  to  act  according  to  this  doctrine,  together 
with  their  best  deeds,  necessarily  assume  a  somewhat  exaggerated  and 
distorted  appearance  on  account  of  their  excessive  tension?  And  in  the 
future  will  not  a  grey  mist  of  failure  envelope  the  world,  owing  to  the 
fact  that  we  may  see  everywhere  struggling  athletes  and  tremendous 
gestures,  but  nowhere  a  conqueror  crowned  with  the  laurel,  and  rejoicing 
in  his  victory?79 

In  The  Will  to  Power,  however,  Nietzsche  says  that  fxrjdev  ixyav 
applies  to  men  of  overflowing  powers — not  to  the  mediocre.80 

With  the  exception  of  certain  works  which  criticize  the 
maxim,  the  remaining  passages  in  which  it  occurs  give  it  varied 
specific  applications  which  are  essentially  new.  In  the  long 
Preface  to  the  sixth  edition  of  Burton's  Anatomy  of  Melan- 
choly*1 "Democritus,"  who  is  weary  of  his  repeated  revisions, 
says  to  the  Reader,  "I  am  now  resolved  never  to  put  this 
treatise  out  again.  Ne  quid  nimis,  I  will  not  hereafter  add, 
alter,  or  retract;  I  have  done."  There  is  also  an  application  of 
the  maxim  to  writing  in  Ferrucci's  little  poem  entitled  "Ne 
quid  Nimis,"82  and  in  Holmes'  work  on  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson. 
Ferrucci  is  pestered  by  the  Muses  day  and  night,  he  says, 
and  he  exhorts  them  to  betake  themselves  to  the  shaded 
mountains  or  to  the  desert  and  leave  him  in  peace,  for  he  has 
resolved  to  write  no  more  "nugas."  And  Holmes  says  of  Emer- 
son's style,  "Mrjdev  cr/cu', — ne  quid  nimis, — nothing  in  excess, 
was  his  precept  as  to  adjectives."83 

Pascal,  who  is  continually  deprecating  too  much  of  any- 
thing in  his  Pensees,84  applies  the  maxim  to  over-specialization. 
He  says  that  we  should  not  be  able  to  say  of  a  man  "He  is  a 
mathematician,"  or  a  "preacher,"  01  "eloquent,"  but  that  he 


MHAEN  ArAN  IN  LITERATURE  43 

is  "a  gentleman" — that  it  is  a  bad  sign  when  on  seeing  a  per- 
son, you  remember  his  book;  and  he  continues,  "I  would  pre- 
fer you  to  see  no  quality  till  you  meet  it  and  have  occasion  to 
use  it,  ne  quid  nimis,  for  fear  some  one  quality  prevail  and 
designate  the  man.  Let  none  think  him  a  fine  speaker,  unless 
oratory  be  in  question,  and  then  let  them  think  it."8s  Addison 
makes  a  similar  application  of  the  precept  in  his  article  in 
The  Spectator  for  June  30,  171 1,86  which  has  for  its  heading 
the  "Ne  quid  nimis"  passage  from  Terence's  Andria  and  the 
old  English  proverb,  "Too  much  of  anything  is  good  for  noth- 
ing." Will  Honeycomb,  Addison  says  in  substance,  counts  the 
excesses  of  his  youth  a  part  of  his  education,  and  calls  a  knowl- 
edge of  the  town  "knowing  the  world,"  while  he  looks  with 
scorn  upon  the  scholar's  seeming  pedantry.  But  as  a  matter 
of  fact,  the  term  "pedant"  should  be  applied  to  everyone  who 
cannot  "think  out  of  his  profession  and  particular  way  of  life." 
We  have  the  mere-man-of-the-town  pedant,  the  military  ped- 
ant, the  law  pedant,  the  state  pedant  or  politician;  and  on  the 
whole  the  book  pedant  is  really  the  most  endurable  of  them 
all.8? 

Hegel,  in  his  Introduction  to  Greek  Philosophy**  treats  jjLrjdev 
aYaj>  as  identical  in  meaning  with  \xirpov  apiarov  and  interprets 
it  in  his  characteristic  metaphysical  fashion : 

Cleobulus  says  p,irpov  apiarov,  another  fxrjSev  ayav,  and  this  has  like- 
wise a  universal  significance  which  is  that  limitation,  the  7repas  of  Plato  as 
opposed  to  the  airapov — the  self-determined  as  opposed  to  the  undeter- 
mined— is  what  is  best;  and  thus  it  is  that  in  Being  limit  or  measure  is  the 
highest  determination. 

Lowell  cites  the  maxim  twice,  each  time  in  a  unique  con- 
nection. In  the  first  of  the  "Leaves"  from  his  Journal,  written 
while  on  the  ocean,  he  speaks  of  the  impression  of  monotony 
which  the  sea  makes  upon  him.  "Even  at  its  best,"  he  muses, 


44  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

"Neptune,  in  a  tete-a-tete,  has  a  way  of  repeating  himself, 

an  obtuseness  to  the  ne  quid  nimis,  that  is  stupefying 

There  is  nothing  so  desperately  monotonous  as  the  sea " 

The  other  passage  is  in  the  poem  which  he  tells  us  he  originally 
called  "A  Day  at  Chartres,"  but  whose  title  James  T.  Fields, 
to  whom  it  is  dedicated,  persuaded  him  to  change  to  "The 
Cathedral."  In  the  introductory  verses  he  speaks  of  certain 
memorable  days  in  the  past  when  Nature  suddenly  took  on 
new  meaning  for  him,  and  then  he  reflects  that  what  we  call 

Nature 

Is  but  our  own  conceit  of  what  we  see, 
Our  own  reaction  upon  what  we  feel. 
The  world's  a  woman  to  our  shifting  mood. 
Feeling  with  us,  or  making  due  pretense. 

He  keeps  up  the  figure  of  the  world  as  a  woman,  and  at  length 
speaks  of  her  as  a  princess  who  sometimes  deigns  to  illumine 
his  garret,  and  declares  that  he  will  bring  to  her 

The  invitiate  firstlings  of  experience 
Vibrations  felt  but  once  and  felt  life  long. 

Then,  as  if  his  anticipations  were  thrilling  him  too  much,  he 
seeks  to  restrain  his  eagerness,  and  adds: 

0  more  than  half-way  turn  that  Grecian  front 
Upon  me,  while  with  self-rebuke  I  spell, 
On  the  plain  fillet  that  confines  thy  hair 
In  conscious  bounds  of  seeming  unconstraint, 
The  Naught  in  Overplus,  thy  race's  badge! 

We  have  seen  that  the  Greeks  themselves  occasionally  felt 
a  certain  inadequacy  in  the  maxim  as  a  rule  of  life,  if  we  may 
so  construe  Pindar's  fragment89  and  the  thrust  in  Aristotle's 
Rhetoric.90  In  modern  literature  this  feeling  grows  into  direct 
and  more  or  less  extended  criticism  of  the  precept  on  the  part 


MHAEN  ArAN  IN  LITERATURE  45 

of  certain  authors.  The  longest  criticism  of  the  kind  is  by 
Speroni  in  his  Discorso  Sopra  le  Sentenze  Ne  quid  nimis  e 
Nosce  te  ipsum.91  He  says  in  substance  that  if  this  maxim 
were  observed,  no  one  would  die  for  his  country  or  his  honor  or 
his  friend,  and  that  people  would  be  merely  indifferent — in- 
differently good.  If  the  maxim  means  to  be  prudent,  the  word- 
ing is  defective,  because  it  excludes  the  too-little.  It  may  mean 
to  put  a  restraint  upon  our  passions  and  not  allow  ourselves 
to  go  into  ecstasies,  but  there  again  we  need  to  guard  against 
too  little  as  well  as  too  much.  It  is  scandalous  to  have  this 
sentence  on  a  temple,  of  all  places,  telling  people  not  to  be 
too  virtuous,  too  religious,  and  pretending  that  excess  only  is 
forbidden.92  Moreover,  if  we  were  to  apply  it  to  length  of  life, 
a  certain  M.  Luigi  Cornaro,93  aged  ninety-five,  would  have 
lived  too  long!  Besides,  it  would  be  considered  a  bad  thing  to 
know  too  much,  just  as  Themistocles  once  blamed  himself  for 
having  a  good  memory.94  The  maxim  would  ruin  Nosce  te 
ipsum,  because  it  is  bad  to  know  one's  self  too  well,  just  as 
any  too-much  is  an  evil,  like  too  much  love  of  self.  But  this 
phrase  has  nothing  to  do  with  wisdom  and  the  like,  he  says. 
The  authors  of  these  precepts  may  have  had  too  much  confi- 
dence in  themselves  in  giving  their  mortal  opinion  as  if  it  were 
something  divine — as  if  these  were  laws  from  God  to  the  whole 
world.  If  you  say  they  studied  to  be  brief,  they  broke  their 
own  rule  by  being  too  brief.  And  why  did  they  not  write  the 
maxim  in  the  market-places  instead  of  on  a  temple  where  men 
seldom  went?  Surely  there  is  a  quid  nimis  in  the  ambition  of 
the  author,  in  the  brevity  and  obscurity  of  the  phrase,  and  in 
other  points  mentioned  above!  In  his  essay  on  Self-Love9S 
Speroni  expresses  his  disapproval  of  both  maxims  still  more 
strongly,  for  he  not  only  repeats  his  statement  that  they  are 
not  worthy  of  Apollo  or  his  temple  but  says  that  they  are 


46  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

"sophistries  which  make  a  loud  noise  and  have  a  little  reputa- 
tion, but  are  unworthy  to  adorn  even  a  hostelry."  And  again, 
in  his  Be  Vario  Argomento96  he  speaks  disapprovingly  of  the 
Ne  quid  nimis  .especially.  The  man  who  is  wise,  just,  brave, 
and  temperate  in  all  things,"  he  argues,  "possesses  civil  virtue. 
....  He  truly  knows  himself,  but  he  does  not  exemplify  en- 
tirely that  other  maxim  Ne  quid  nimis;  rather,  he  is  nimis 
sapiens,  as  it  were.  In  such  a  man,  virtue  does  not  consist  in 
mediocrity,  but  in  excellence."97 

A  little  later,  in  England,  we  find  Sir  Thomas  Browne  say- 
ing in  his  Pseudodoxia9*  that  Nosce  te  ipsum  and  Nihil  nimis 
are  "but  vulgar  precepts  in  morality,  carrying  with  them  noth- 
ing above  the  line  or  beyond  the  extemporary  sententiosity  of 
common  conceits  with  us."  And  there  is  a  more  reasoned  crit- 
icism of  ixy]hev  aYcu>  on  the  part  of  two  authors  of  our  own  day. 
Reginald  Robbins'  poem  on  "Sophocles"99  is  fairly  dominated 
by  the  apothegm.  It  begins  with  the  words: 

Nothing  too  much! — My  prosperous  old-age 
Were  proof  sufficient  of  the  paradigm. 
Nothing  too  much:  gnomic  of  my  career! 

Aeschylus,  he  says,  found 

Too  much  of  meaning  in  the  mighty  myth 
For  man  to  master  and  make  art  of  it. 

And  for  Euripides, 

....  the  too-much  lieth  in  a  zeal 

To  reconstruct,  make  something  new  of  truth, 


A  zeal  too  much  to  substitute  for  myth 
The  lore  of  merely  men. 

And  then  Sophocles  goes  on  to  ask  if,  after  all,  his  way  of  calm 
is  best,  while  Athens  totters  on  the  brink,  and  other  men  at- 


MHAEN  ArAN  IN  LITERATURE  47 

tempt  something  high  only  to  be  broken  in  the  attempt;  or 

whether 

....  faileth  not  the  gnoma  where  I  fail 
By  sympathy  unwonted,  proving  so  much 
Of  meaning  to  our  life  that  none  should  be 
Of  golden  mediocrity  who  live? 

But  his  Oedipus,  Sophocles  reflects,  by  reason  of  his  excessive 
failure  became  a  valued  possession  for  Attica,  and  even  if  he 
has  failed  himself,  in  exercising  "too-much  of  artistry"  at  the 
expense  of  creation,  surely  Colonus  will  one  day  rejoice  in  the 
possession  of  his  bones  also,  because  of  the  honor  he  has  shown 
to  Oedipus. 

The  other  fairly  recent  discussion  of  the  maxim  is  in  the 
essay  on  Delphi  in  Greek  Literature  by  Paul  Elmer  More.100 
He  discusses  ji-qbev  ayav  and  yvcodt  aeavrbv  both,  and  regards 
one  as  the  counterpart  of  the  other,  for  he  says  that  "Nothing 
too  much  is  the  rule  of  outward  conduct,"  while  "Know  thy- 
self" may  be  taken  to  express  the  inner  spiritual  phase  of  Greek 
life:  that  the  two  apothegms  "express  the  inner  and  outer  faces 
of  the  same  truth."  He  thinks  further  that  ii-qhev  ayav  is  the 
key  to  the  Pythagorean  doctrine  of  harmony  in  numbers,  that 
Plato's  idea  of  justice  is  the  application  of  the  precept,  and 
that  it  received  its  ultimate  expression  in  the  Ethics  of  Aris- 
totle. But  he  thinks  that  the  Greeks  carried  the  principle  of 
moderation  too  far — that  with  them  nothing  was  absolutely 
right  or  absolutely  wrong,  and  that  in  the  fact  that  they  were 
too  tolerant  of  evil  may  be  found  a  cause  for  the  decay  of  their 
civilization. 

These  criticisms  of  the  maxim  reduce  themselves  to  two 
points — one  touching  the  inadequacy  of  the  phrase  as  an  ex- 
pression enjoining  the  observance  of  the  mean,  a  criticism 
which  is  justifiable  but  of  relatively  little  consequence;  the 


48  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

other  touching  the  value  of  the  maxim  as  an  ideal,  as  a  rule 
of  life.  This  last  goes  much  deeper,  and  is  likely  to  be  increas- 
ingly insistent  on  the  part  of  those  who  see  an  antithesis  be- 
tween a  well-rounded,  well-balanced,  harmonious  life  on  the 
one  hand,  and  great  enthusiasms,  engendering  superior  attain- 
ment, but  attended  by  the  loss  of  certain  worthful  values,  on 
the  other.  In  the  last  analysis  it  all  depends  upon  what  con- 
stitutes too  much  in  each  particular  as  it  is  related  to  the  whole 
— upon  the  criterion  of  judgment  which  determines  values, 
and  the  nice  adjustment  between  them.  And  this  brings  us 
ever  and  again  to  the  spiritual  tribunal  for  which  Delphi 
stands. 


CHAPTER  IV 

TN06I  SEAT  TON  IN  GREEK  AND  LATIN 
LITERATURE 

Important  as  was  ixi]hev  <xyav  to  the  Greek  mind,  and  peren- 
nial as  is  men's  interest  in  its  possible  applications  to  life,  by 
far  the  most  significant  of  the  three  maxims,  both  in  ancient 
and  in  modern  times,  is  yvcbdc  aeavrov.  The  earliest  suggestion 
of  it  in  literature  occurs  a  little  later  than  that  of  ix-qhtv  <xy&v, 
in  a  fragment  of  Heracleitus,1  of  the  early  fifth  century,  which 
reads:  "It  is  the  part  of  all  men  to  know  themselves  and  be 
sober."  This  is  too  fragmentary  a  passage  to  make  clear  what 
Heracleitus  meant  by  knowing  one's  self;  but  in  the  next  refer- 
ence to  the  apothegm,  in  Aeschylus'  Prometheus,  the  setting 
enables  us  to  determine  the  author's  thought.  Prometheus  has 
persisted  in  his  course  of  serving  mankind  contrary  to  the  will 
of  Zeus;  and  when  Zeus  has  punished  him  by  having  him  im- 
paled on  a  beetling  crag  at  the  edge  of  the  world,  his  pride  is 
in  no  way  curbed,  but  rather  intensified  by  the  seeming  in- 
gratitude of  Zeus,  who  gained  the  throne  of  Heaven  through 
Prometheus'  aid.  Oceanus  comes  to  offer  his  services  in  effect- 
ing a  reconciliation,  and  he  pleads  with  Prometheus:2  "Know 
thyself,  and  make  compliant  thy  youthful  ways:  for  young  to 
power  is  the  king  among  the  gods."  The  plea  is  evidently  that 
Prometheus  shall  know  the  measure  of  his"  strength  when  pitted 
against  that  of  Zeus,  and  that  he  shall  know  his  place  as  subject 
of  the  new  king. 

This  use  of  the  maxim  in  the  sense  of  knowing  one's  meas- 
ure was  not  only  early  but  persistent.  We  find  a  possible  sug- 

49 


50  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

gestion  of  it  in  Pindar,3  and  clear  instances  in  Xenophon  and 
Plato,  as  well  as  in  later  authors.  Xenophon  tells  us  in  his 
Hellenica  that  the  patriot  Thrasybulus  began  his  speech  to  the 
City  party,  after  concluding  the  peace  terms  consequent  upon 
the  victory  over  the  thirty  tyrants  at  Eleusis,  with  the  words : 
"I  advise  you,  Men  of  the  City,  to  know  yourselves.  And  you 
might  know  yourselves  best,  if  you  would  take  account  of  the 
qualities  upon  which  you  ought  to  pride  yourselves  in  attempt- 
ing to  rule  over  us."  Then  he  asks  them  if  they  can  claim  to 
be  more  just,  or  brave,  or  intelligent,  than  the  patriots,  and 
makes  it  evident  throughout  all  this  part  of  his  speech  that  by 
"knowing  themselves"  he  means  that  they  shall  measure  them- 
selves carefully  in  comparison  with  those  over  whom  they  have 
tyrannized,  and  recognize  their  h'mitations  in  character  and 
power  of  attainment.4  The  allusion  to  the  maxim  seems  un- 
mistakable, and  that  it  should  form  the  text  of  such  an  address 
on  such  an  occasion  indicates  both  its  widespread  familiarity 
and  the  instinctive  interpretation  put  upon  it  by  a  man  of 
affairs. 

Again,  in  the  Cyropaedia,5  Xenophon  relates  the  story  of  a 
conversation  between  Croesus,  king  of  Lydia,  and  Cyrus,  after 
the  capture  of  Sardis,  in  which  Cyrus  asks  the  king  how  his 
responses  from  Delphi  have  turned  out.  Croesus  tells  of  how 
he  sent  men  to  consult  the  Oracle  on  several  occasions  and  how 
it  once  responded,  "If  you  know  yourself,  you  will  pass  your  life 
in  happiness."  That  seemed  simple  to  him  at  first,  but  he  al- 
lowed himself  to  listen  to  flattery  and  at  length  to  accept  the 
command  of  the  army,  thinking  that  he  was  capable  of  carrying 
on  war  against  a  man  like  Cyrus,  "not  knowing  himself,  for- 
sooth." His  defeat  has  now  brought  him  the  requisite  self- 
knowledge,  however,  and  he  appeals  to  Cyrus  to  know  if 
Apollo's  saying  that  he  will  be  happy  in  consequence  is  to  come 


TNftei  SEAT  TON  IN  GREEK  AND  LATIN        51 

true;  whereupon  Cyrus'  generous  treatment  makes  him  con- 
tent. An  indirect  implication  of  this  connotation  of  the  maxim 
occurs  in  Plato's  Philebus,6  where  Socrates  refers  to  the  yv&Bi 
aeavrbv  at  Delphi  in  connection  with  a  description  of  the  man 
who  does  not  know  himself — who  fancies  that  he  is  richer,  or 
better  looking,  or  more  virtuous,  or  wiser,  than  he  really  is. 
So  Aristotle's  Conceited  Man  is  ignorant  of  himself;  and  like- 
wise, his  Little-minded  Man,  who  has  great  qualities  but  does 
not  appreciate  his  own  worth;  whereas  the  mean  between  these 
two,  the  High-minded  Man,  is  both  worthy  and  estimates  him- 
self at  his  true  value.7 

Alcibiades  and  Alexander  both  figure  as  types  of  young  men 
who  do  not  know  themselves  in  this  sense — the  one  in  the 
Alcibiades  I,  which  might  well  have  Tv&di  Aeavrbv  for  its  title, 
the  other  in  a  dialogue  of  Dio  Chrysostom.  Socrates  reminds 
Alcibiades  of  his  real  ignorance  of  politics  and  justice  in  the 
face  of  his  great  ambitions,  and  suggests  that  he  compare  him- 
self with  the  superior  Spartan  and  Persian  kings  and  heed  the 
Delphic  precept.  Alexander  is  represented  in  conversation  with 
Diogenes,8  and  asks  from  whom  he  can  learn  to  be  the  best  kind 
of  king.  Diogenes  refers  him  to  Homer,  where  kings  learned 
the  art  from  Zeus;  and  presently,  when  Alexander  baldly  states 
his  ambition  to  conquer  the  world,  the  Cynic  tells  him  that 
even  if  he  does,  it  will  not  make  him  a  king,  for  his  worst 
enemy,  himself,  will  still  remain,  and  to  know  one's  self,  as 
Apollo  enjoined,  is  the  hardest  thing  of  all.  In  another  dia- 
logue of  Dio  Chrysostom9  Diogenes  says  that  the  philosopher 
differs  from  other  men  in  that  he  brings  everything  to  the  test 
of  truth,  whereas  people  generally  are  affected  by  what  men 
say  to  them  about  themselves,  and  a  man  cannot  obey  the 
Delphic  maxim  if  he  measures  himself  by  that  standard.  Flat- 
tery is  thus  seen  to  be  the  foe  of  self-knowledge,  as  it  is  often 


52  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

regarded  elsewhere  in  Greek  literature ,  and  the  maxim  in  this 
connection  patently  means  to  "take  one's  measure."10 

The  earliest  apparent  reference  to  yv&di  aeavrbv  in  Latin 
literature  is  in  a  passage  in  Plautus'  Stichus,11  where  the  ques- 
tion is  asked,  "What  woman  seems  to  you  by  far  the  wisest?" 
and  the  interlocutor  replies,  "She  who  will  be  able  to  know  her- 
self in  prosperity,  and  will  endure  adversity  with  a  calm  mind." 
And  again  there  is  an  apparent  allusion  to  the  maxim  in  this 
sense  of  knowing  one's  measure  in  one  of  Cicero's  Philippics,12 
when  Cicero  reminds  Antony  that  in  occupying  Pompey's 
house  he  can  hardly  feel  at  home,  for  he  must  "know  himself 
and  his  own  household"  in  comparison.  The  best  instance  in 
Latin  literature  of  the  use  of  7*>co0t  aeavrbv  with  this  original 
force,  however,  is  in  the  Satire  of  Juvenal  from  which  we 
quoted  in  the  Introduction.  The  poet  approves  of  the  well- 
laden  table  of  the  wealthy,  he  tells  us,  but  it  is  not  becoming 
for  the  man  in  moderate  circumstances  to  live  extravagantly. 
And  he  continues : 

I  am  right  in  despising  the  man  who  knows  how  much  higher  Atlas 
is  than  all  the  mountains  of  Libya,  but  does  not  know  how  much  differ- 
ence there  is  between  a  little  purse  and  an  iron-bound  chest.  From  Heav- 
en descended  yv&Oi.  aeavrov,  and  it  ought  to  be  fixed  in  the  heart,  and 
practiced,  whether  you  seek  a  wife  or  wish  to  be  a  part  of  the  august 
Senate.  One  should  know  his  own  measure,  and  look  to  it  in  matters  of 
great  or  of  little  importance — even  when  you  buy  a  fish,  that  you  may 
not  desire  a  mullet  when  you've  only  a  gobio  in  your  pocket.13 

Knowing  one's  measure  is  capable  of  various  phases  of 
specific  application,  among  which  knowing  what  one  can  and 
cannot  do,  knowing  one's  special  bent,  knowing  one's  place, 
knowing  the  limits  of  one's  wisdom,  and  knowing  that  we  are 
human  and  mortal  are  the  most  conspicuous  in  the  literature 
of  the  Classical  period.  Knowing  the  limit  of  one's  ability  is 
the  prevailing  force  of  the  maxim  in  the  fourth  book  of  Xeno- 


TNOei  SEAT  TON  IN  GREEK  AND  LATIN        53 

phon's  Memorabilia?*  where  Socrates  leads  Euthydemus,  who 
is  aspiring  to  become  a  statesman,  to  see  that  only  as  men  know 
their  ability,  and  do  what  they  understand,  may  they  hope  for 
success.  In  the  passage  in  Aristotle's  Rhetoric  to  which  we  re- 
ferred in  connection  with  ix-qbev  ayav,  the  yv&di  aeavrbv  is  quoted 
in  the  sense  of  knowing  one's  "own  incapacity,"  as  Cope  puts 
it.  Aristotle  is  illustrating  the  use  of  maxims  in  a  spirit  of 
contradiction  for  rhetorical  effect;  and  he  says  that  one  can 
do  this  under  emotional  stress,  as  if,  for  example,  an  orator 
should  say  in  a  burst  of  indignation  against  some  incompetent 
general:  "It's  all  a  lie  that  one  must  know  himself!  At  any 
rate,  if  that  fellow  had  known  how  incapable  he  was,  he  would 
never  have  claimed  the  office  of  general."15  So,  too,  Epictetus 
warns  the  would-be  Cynic  that  he  must  make  sure  of  being 
equal  to  the  exactions  of  the  Cynic  manner  of  life,  just  as  the 
athlete  at  the  Olympic  games  tests  his  muscles.  He  must  know 
himself,  and  be  truly  superior  to  others,  if  he  would  teach 
them.16  And  Plutarch  says,  in  his  Life  of  Demosthenes,17  that 
he  intends  to  compare  his  deeds  and  political  measures  with 
those  of  Cicero  but  that  he  cannot  discuss  their  relative  merit 
as  orators,  as  Caecilius18  has  attempted  to  do.  In  that  case,  he 
would  be  like  a  dolphin  on  dry  land;  while  as  for  Caecilius,  "If 
everyone  had  the  yv&di  aeavrbv  ready  at  hand,  it  might  not 
seem  to  be  a  divine  command!"  A  historical  character  who  did 
not  overestimate  his  own  ability  is  the  Emperor  Julian.  When 
he  ascended  the  throne,  he  received  a  letter  from  Themistius, 
urging  him  to  exercise  industry  in  combating  evil,  and  express- 
ing great  hope  in  what  he  might  accomplish.19  The  emperor's 
reply  reveals  the  fact  that  he  not  only  finds  the  career  before 
him  contrary  to  his  tastes  but  that  he  feels  inadequate  for  the 
task.  He  would  not  have  Themistius  question  his  industry,  but 
remember  the  yvdBi  aeavrbv  and  not  expect  too  much.  He  has 


54  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

no  superior  ability,  he  feels;  whereas  a  king  ought  to  have  more 
than  human  powers. 

While  the  maxim  is  more  frequently  applied  to  cases  in 
which  a  person  overestimates  his  ability,  it  is  occasionally  quot- 
ed in  an  attempt  to  rouse  the  man  who  belittles  himself — a 
person  like  Aristotle's  Little-minded  Man,  for  instance;  or  the 
mature  Charmides  of  Xenophon's  Memorabilia,20  whom  So- 
crates rebukes  for  avoiding  his  duty  to  come  before  the  as- 
sembly in  an  effort  to  help  make  the  city  better;  or  like  Cicero's 
brother  Quintus,  whom  Cicero  reminds  of  yv&di  aeavrov  in  two 
letters.  In  one,  "On  Standing  for  the  Consulship,"  he  urges 
him  to  recognize  his  oratorical  gifts;  in  the  other,  he  chides  him 
for  dillydallying  with  his  pen,  and  implies  that  he  has  more 
literary  talent  than  he  is  exercising.  "Do  not  think  that  Y^cofli 
aeavrov  was  spoken  to  diminish  arrogance  alone,"  Cicero 
writes,  "but  it  means  that  we  should  know  our  good  points 
also."21 

Knowing  one's  special  bent,  which  is  a  prominent  idea  in 
Plato,  and  which  is  emphasized  by  Cicero  and  by  Seneca,  is 
first  connected  with  yz>co0i  aeavrov  in  Plutarch's  essay  on  Tran- 
quillity,22 with  the  observation  that  one  must  obey  the  Pythian 
inscription  and  "direct  his  efforts  toward  the  single  pursuit  for 
which  he  is  naturally  fitted."  Ovid  also  applies  the  maxim 
somewhat  in  this  sense  in  his  Ars  Amatoria,23  where  Apollo  ap- 
pears to  him,  playing  his  golden  lyre  and  singing : 

Preceptor  of  wanton  love,  come  lead  to  my  shrine  thy  disciples.  For 
everywhere  all  through  the  world  has  gone  the  fame  of  the  maxim  which 
bids  that  each  shall  be  known  to  himself.  The  man  who  knoweth  himself 
alone  shall  love  wisely,  and  adapt  all  his  effort  to  directing  the  powers 
which  he  has.  He  to  whom  Nature  has  given  beauty  of  face  shall  display 
it;  and  let  him  whose  skin  is  fair  recline  with  an  oft-exposed  shoulder; 
he  who  can  please  with  his  converse  avoid  all  taciturn  silence;  he  who 
can  sing  well  should  sing;  and  he  who  drinks  artfully,  drink.24 


TN120I  ZEATTON  IN  GREEK  AND  LATIN        55 

It  was  partly  as  a  warning  to  know  his  place  that  Oceanus 
addressed  Prometheus  in  words  suggestive  of  the  maxim,  we 
remember;  and  this  connotation  occurs  in  a  few  other  passages 
in  Greek  literature — notably  in  Plato's  Charmides,25  where 
yj>co#i  aeavTov  appears  as  a  possible  definition  of  aaxfrpoavvr],  a 
virtue  which  includes  not  only  a  due  sense  of  proportion  and  of 
control  over  one's  physical  appetites  but  a  sense  of  fitness  or 
knowing  one's  place.  Later  instances  of  the  use  of  the  precept 
in  this  sense  are  found  in  Philo  Judaeus'  Embassy  to  Gains  and 
in  one  of  the  Emperor  Julian's  letters  to  Iamblichus.  Philo 
Judaeus  is  telling  about  the  murders  perpetrated  by  Gaius 
Caesar,  and  of  how  he  put  to  death  a  certain  Macro  who  had 
aided  him  in  securing  the  throne  but  gave  too  freely  of  his 
advice  afterward.  The  people,  whose  ill-will  toward  Macro 
Gaius  had  taken  pains  to  instigate,  said,  on  the  occasion  of  his 
death,  that  he  had  not  " thoroughly  grasped  the  Delphic  in- 
scription yp&di  creavrop For  what  could  have  made  him 

change  the  relative  position  of  Gaius  and  himself  so  as  to 
virtually  make  himself  ruler  and  Gaius  his  subject?"26  In  con- 
trast to  this  story  it  is  pleasant  to  read  the  playful  tribute 
which  the  Emperor  Julian  pays  to  Iamblichus'  superior  wis- 
dom: 

We  ought  in  obedience  to  the  Delphic  inscription  to  know  ourselves 
and  not  have  the  face  to  behave  boldly  toward  a  man  of  such  great  fame — 
a  man  whose  mere  glance  it  is  hard  to  return,  to  say  nothing  of  meeting 
him  on  equal  terms  when  he  rouses  the  harmonious  strains  of  all  wisdom; 
for  if  Pan  were  to  echo  his  shrill  song,  every  one  would  stand  dumb,  even 
Aristaeus,  and  if  Apollo  should  play  on  his  lyre,  every  man  would  keep 
silence,  though  he  knew  the  music  of  Orpheus.2? 

The  connection  of  yv&6i  aeavrov  with  the  virtue  aoxfrpoavv-q 
in  the  Charmides,  together  with  Plato's  doctrine  of  the  unity 
of  the  virtues,  at  length  brought  about  a  tendency  to  make  the 


56  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

maxim  include  the  other  cardinal  virtues  also.  In  the  spurious 
Platonic  dialogue,  the  Erastae,  it  is  made  to  include  both  <Tco(f)- 
poabvt]  and  justice;  in  Porphyry,28  aco^poavvrj  and  wisdom;  in 
Philostratus'  Apollonius  of  Tyana29  it  is  connected  with  cour- 
age; and  in  Olympiodorus30  it  is  connected  with  each  of  the 
four.  Self-knowledge  is  thus  a  part  of  every  virtue,  according 
to  Olympiodorus.  Conversely,  the  lack  of  virtue  indicates  a 
lack  of  self-knowledge;  and  so  it  is  that  the  tyrant,  whom  Plato 
makes  the  type  of  the  most  degenerate  state,  is  unknown  to 
himself.  This  idea  occurs  in  Apuleius'  discussion  of  Plato's 
teaching;31  and  also  in  a  chorus  of  Seneca's  Thyestes32  which 
has  often  been  imitated  in  later  literature: 

Death  lies  heavily  on  the  man 
Who,  known  too  well  to  all  beside, 
Dies  unknown  to  himself  (alone). 

In  a  significant  passage  in  Plato's  Phaedrus33  Socrates  tells 
us  that  he  has  no  time  for  rationalizing  the  myths,  for  he  is 
still  unable  to  know  himself,  according  to  the  Delphic  inscrip- 
tion. Plato  would  have  us  believe  that  Socrates  made  the  pur- 
suit of  self-knowledge  a  lifelong  quest,  and  that  he  came  to  the 
conclusion  that  the  greatest  obstacle  to  its  attainment  on  the 
part  of  most  men  is  a  false  conceit  of  wisdom.  Wisdom  is  the 
virtue  which  most  people  have  a  conceit  about,  he  says  in  effect 
in  the  Philebus34  when  declaring  that  ignorance  of  self  is  the 
opposite  of  what  the  maxim  enjoins;  and  he  made  it  the  mission 
of  his  life  to  try  to  rid  men  of  that  conceit.35  Regarding  himself, 
he  says,  near  the  close  of  his  life,  that  if  Apollo  was  right  in  call- 
ing him  the  wisest  man,  it  is  because  he  knows  that  he  knows 
nothing;36  and  so  it  is  that  Plato  leads  us  to  look  upon  Socrates 
as  the  one  man  who  most  nearly  fulfilled  the  god's  behest.  In 
Xenophon's  Memorabilia37  Socrates  says  that  not  to  know  one's 
self  in  the  sense  of  not  knowing  what  one  thinks  he  knows  is 


TNfiei  SEAT  TON  IN  GREEK  AND  LATIN         57 

really  a  form  of  madness,  although  most  people  do  not  recog- 
nize it  as  such.  Aristophanes  hits  upon  this  prominent  phase  of 
Socrates'  teaching  in  the  Clouds,3*  where,  in  answer  to  Pheidip- 
pides'  query  as  to  what  good  anyone  can  learn  in  Socrates' 
Thinking-Shop,  his  father  replies,  "You  will  know  yourself — 
how  conceited  you  are  in  your  ignorance  and  how  dull  of  wit." 
Isocrates  also  gives  the  maxim  this  connotation  in  his  Pan- 
athenaicusP  The  oration  contains  a  historical  essay  on  Athens' 
greatness,  which  Isocrates  says  he  read  to  a  former  student  of 
his  who  was  familiar  with  an  oligarchical  form  of  government 
and  was  wont  to  praise  the  Spartans.  The  man  naturally  took 
exception  to  the  way  in  which  Isocrates  had  represented  Sparta, 
saying  that  Greece  ought  to  be  grateful  to  her  because  she  had 
discovered  and  taught  the  noblest  pursuits.  Whereupon  Isoc- 
rates proceeded  to  show  the  ends  of  Spartan  education  in  such 
a  light  that  his  critic  went  away  "with  the  sails  of  his  opinion 
furled,  experiencing  that  which  is  written  at  Delphi." 

Under  the  influence  of  the  Stoics,  apparently,  knowing  one's 
measure  was  at  length  extended  to  include  knowing  our  human 
and  mortal  limitations.40  The  injunction  to  think  mortal 
thoughts — to  realize  that  we  have  only  human  powers  and  that 
death  awaits  us — is  a  commonplace  of  Greek  literature  from 
Archilochus  down.  We  find  it  frequently  in  sepulchral  inscrip- 
tions also,  and  in  the  words  of  the  slave  who  stood  behind  the 
Roman  general  in  his  triumphal  car,  saying  repeatedly,  "Look 
behind  you.  Remember  that  you  are  human."41  The  first  pas- 
sage in  which  this  thought  is  related  to  the  maxim  is  a  fragment 
of  Menander: 

When  thou  dost  wish  to  know  thyself — what  thou  art,  look  at  the 
tombs  as  thou  dost  pass  along  the  street.  In  them  lie  the  bones  and  the 
light  dust  of  men — of  kings,  and  tyrants,  and  wise  men,  and  men  greatly 
exalted  by  reason  of  their  birth,  or  fame,  or  personal  beauty.  And  then 


58  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

the  time  for  enjoying  these  proved  all  too  short.  A  common  grave  claimed 
them  all,  mortals  that  they  were.  Looking  to  these  things,  know  thyself — 
what  thou  art.42 

The  maxim  is  quoted,  too,  in  Seneca's  Consolation  to  Marcia43  in 
a  passage  in  which  he  dwells  upon  the  frailty  of  man  and  the 
inevitableness  of  death,  in  a  somewhat  similar  passage  in 
Plutarch's  Consolation  to  Apollonius44  and  in  two  of  Lucian's 
Dialogues  of  the  Dead;  while  we  find  the  words  of  the  apothegm 
inscribed  underneath  the  figure  of  a  skeleton  wrought  in  the 
mosaic  floor  of  a  small  Roman  tomb  (Fig.  io).4S  In  one  of 
Lucian's  Dialogues  of  the  Dead46  Croesus,  Midas,  and  Sardana- 
palus  lament  the  loss  of  all  that  their  wealth  brought  them  in 
life;  and  Menippus  the  Cynic,  who  is  continually  reproving 
them  without  apparent  effect,  finally  says,  "Very  well,  keep 
it  up.  Wail  away,  and  I'll  chant  the  7^w^t  aeavrov  without  ceas- 
ing. It  is  a  refrain  that  fits  in  well  with  laments  like  these."  In 
the  other  Dialogue,47  Philip  greets  Alexander  upon  his  arrival 
in  the  Lower  World  with  the  words,  "This  time,  Alexander, 
you  cannot  deny  that  you  are  my  son :  for  you  would  not  have 
died,  if  you  had  been  Amnion's."  Alexander,  however,  is  not 
yet  ready  to  admit  that  he  is  a  mere  mortal,  and  he  boasts 
about  his  achievements  until  Philip  finally  asks  him  if  he  will 
not  learn  to  drop  his  bombast  and  know  himself  for  the  corpse 
that  he  is. 

To  continue  the  passage  in  Plato's  Phaedrus  from  which 
we  quoted  above,  Socrates  declares  that  he  bids  goodbye  to 
questions  of  speculative  theology  in  order  to  obey  the  precept 
and  consider  himself — whether  he  happens  "to  be  some  beast 
more  intricate  and  full  of  passion  than  Typho,  or  a  simpler  and 
gentler  creature,  sharing  in  some  divine  and  less  monstrous 
destiny."  This  is  the  first  instance  of  the  use  of  the  maxim  in 
the  sense  of  knowing  one's  soul,  and  it  is  probably  the  starting- 


TN09I  2EATT0N  IN  GREEK  AND  LATIN 


59 


point  of  several  later  developments  of  the  theme.  In  one  sense, 
knowing  one's  soul  includes  a  knowledge  of  one's  disposition; 


m  cue  1 -CAY  TON 


Fig.  io 


and  through  the  influence  of  the  Stoics,  knowing  one's  faults 
came  at  length  to  be  one  of  the  definite  specific  meanings  at- 
tached to  yv&di  aeavTov.    Galen  says48  that  those  who  allow 


60  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

others  to  tell  them  their  opinion  about  what  sort  of  people 
they  are  "make  the  fewest  mistakes,  but  those  who  take  it  for 
granted  that  they  are  good,  without  leaving  it  to  others  to 
judge,  stumble  most  seriously  and  most  frequently";  and  he 
adds:  "And  so,  while  as  a  lad  I  thought  that  the  Pythian  com- 
mand was  needlessly  praised,  and  that  it  was  not  such  a  great 
saying,  I  later  found  that  men's  praise  of  it  was  just."  The 
flatterer  always  acts  contrary  to  the  jvooBl  aeavrbv,  according 
to  Plutarch;49  for  he  makes  a  man  ignorant  of  both  his  good 
and  bad  qualities  to  the  extent  of  degrading  his  good  points 
into  failures  and  imperfections,  and  his  bad  ones  into  some- 
thing irremediable.  That  we  are  prone  to  see  other  people's 
faults  rather  than  our  own  is  indicated  by  one  of  Aesop's 
fables,  which  reads: 

Jupiter  placed  upon  us  two  sacks:  the  one  laden  with  others'  faults 
he  hung  before  our  hearts;  the  other,  filled  with  our  own,  he  placed  behind 
our  backs.  So  it  is  that  we  cannot  see  our  own  evil  deeds,  but  condemn 
others  when  they  fail.50 

The  thought  which  this  fable  expresses  is  connected  with  yvcodt, 
aeavTov  in  the  Magna  Moralia  and  in  Plutarch.  The  author  of 
the  Magna  Moralia  writes: 

Since  it  is  very  hard,  as  some  of  the  Wise  have  declared,  to  know  one's 
self,  we  are  unable  to  contemplate  ourselves  from  within  ourselves;  and 
because  we  are  unable  to  know  ourselves,  we  evidently  do  unwittingly  the 
very  things  for  which  we  find  fault  with  others.51 

And  Plutarch  says  that  "upon  no  one  is  the  God  so  likely  to 
have  enjoined  the  yv&di  aeavrov  as  upon  him  who  is  going  to 
find  fault  with  another."52  Seneca,  moreover,  glances  at  the 
maxim  in  the  passage  in  which  he  asks : 

Do  you  observe  another's  pimples  when  you  are  covered  with  numer- 
ous sores?  ....  Will  you  not  look  at  your  own  faults?  ....  Are  human 
conditions  such  that  while  you  know  your  own  state  too  little,  you  have 
time  to  wield  your  tongue  to  the  reproach  of  your  betters?53 


rNftGI  SEATTON  IN  GREEK  AND  LATIN        61 

Aesop's  fable  is  alluded  to  by  several  Latin  poets;  and  it  is 
virtually  connected  with  ypoodi  aeavrou  in  Persius'  fourth  satire,54 
although  the  maxim  is  not  expressed  in  so  many  words.  "No 
one  tries  to  descend  into  himself,  no  one,"  the  poem  reads,  "but 
we  watch  the  back  of  the  man  who  goes  before  us";  and  the 
poet's  closing  advice  is,  "Dwell  with  yourself,  and  know  how 
sparsely  your  dwelling  is  furnished." 

Tv&di  creavrov  with  the  connotation  of  knowing  one's  soul 
in  the  deeper  sense  becomes  the  main  theme  of  the  Alcibiades 
I.  In  the  first  part  of  the  dialogue,  as  we  have  observed,  Soc- 
rates tries  to  make  Alcibiades  realize  how  far  his  attainments 
fall  short  of  his  ambition  and  alludes  to  the  maxim  by  way  of 
emphasizing  the  necessity  of  his  taking  his  own  measure.  Alcibi- 
ades is  at  length  brought  to  acknowledge  his  ignorance,  and 
then  Socrates  goes  on  to  show  him  that  self-knowledge  is  essen- 
tial to  improvement  and  that  it  is  the  soul  which  is  the  real 
self,  as  distinguished  from  the  body  and  one's  possessions.  But 
"How  can  the  soul  know  itself?"  is  the  question.  Alcibiades 
is  at  a  loss  for  an  answer,  but  Socrates  explains  that  he  thinks 
that  the  maxim  may  mean  that  as  the  eye  can  see  itself  by 
looking  into  another  eye,  so  the  soul  to  know  itself 

must  look  at  soul,  and  especially  at  the  part  of  it  in  which  the  virtue  of 

soul  exists,  namely  wisdom This  part  of  the  soul  is  like  to  God,  and 

anyone  looking  to  this,  and  knowing  all  that  is  divine,  God  and  Wisdom, 

would  in  this  way  especially  know  himself Looking  to  God,  we 

would  use  him  as  the  fairest  mirror,  and  looking  also  into  the  virtue  of 
the  human  soul,  we  would  in  this  way  see  and  know  ourselves  best.55 

The  antithesis  between  soul  and  body  indicated  above  is  a 
common  Platonic  idea;  and  we  find  the  apothegm  applied  by 
later  writers  to  a  knowledge  of  each  separately,  and  again  to  a 
knowledge  of  the  relation  between  the  two.  Philo  Judaeus  ap- 
plies it  in  certain  passages  to  a  knowledge  of  the  body  as  an 


62  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

important  preliminary  to  a  knowledge  of  the  mind  and  soul. 
For  instance,  in  his  symbolic  interpretation  of  the  life  of 
Jacob,56  he  says  that  Charran,  the  land  in  which  Jacob  so- 
journed with  his  Uncle  Laban,  is  the  land  of  the  external  senses. 
The  word  "charran"  means  "holes";  and  the  man  who  wishes 
to  know  himself  should  go  into  the  holes  and  caverns  of  the 
body  and  investigate  his  eyes,  ears,  nostrils,  and  other  organs 
of  sense.  Accordingly  Rebekkah  says  to  Jacob,  "yv&di  aeavrov 
and  the  parts  of  thy  frame,  what  each  is,  and  for  what  it  was 
born,  and  how  it  derives  its  energy,  and  what  unseen  force 
moves  these  marvels."  Jacob  was  not  to  stay  in  Charran  all  his 
life,  however,  but  to  go  on  to  the  City  of  the  Mind.  Porphyry 
tells  us  in  his  work  on  Tvtodt,  Aeavrov57  that  Plato  was  "zealous 
to  know  himself  in  every  way,  that  the  immortal  man  within 
might  be  known  and  the  outer  portrait  not  unknown";  and  the 
Emperor  Julian  says58  that  yv&Bi  aeavrov  means  a  knowledge  of 
the  body — that  he  who  knows  himself  will  know  about  the  soul, 
and  he  will  know  about  the  body  also — "he  will  reflect  about  its 
harmony,  and  how  it  is  affected,  and  about  its  powers,  and,  in 
a  word,  about  everything  which  it  needs  for  its  continuance." 
Nemesius,  also,  says  that  in  the  Garden  of  Eden  God  did  not 
want  man  to  eat  of  the  fruit  of  the  Tree  of  Knowledge  and  so 
know  his  own  nature  before  he  attained  perfection,  for  he  did 
not  wish  him  to  realize  his  bodily  wants  and  come  to  care  for 
them  without  forethought  for  the  soul.  But  man  in  his  dis- 
obedience came  to  know  himself  and  became  the  prey  of  his 
physical  need,  for  he  straightway  sought  a  covering,  knowing 
that  he  was  naked.59 

Touching  the  relation  between  soul  and  body,  Plutarch  asks : 

What  is  this  that  I  happen  to  be?  Am  I  made  up  of  soul  and  body 
mixed,  or  does  the  soul  use  the  body  as  a  horseman  uses  a  horse,  without 
the  two  being  a  mixture  of  horse  and  man?  Or  are  we  each  most  authori- 


TN120I  SEAT  TON  IN  GREEK  AND  LATIN        63 

tative  in  that  part  of  the  soul  with  which  we  think  and  reason  and  act, 
and  are  all  the  other  parts  of  the  soul  and  body  instruments  of  this  power? 
Or  is  there  no  essence  of  the  soul  at  all,  but  is  the  body  itself  a  mixture, 
with  the  power  of  knowing  and  living?  ....  These  are  those  dreadful 
and  perplexing  questions  in  the  Phaedrus,  where  Socrates  thinks  that  he 
ought  to  consider  whether  he  is  a  monster  more  intricate  and  passionate 
than  Typho,  or  whether  he  shares  in  a  certain  divine  and  less  monstrous 
destiny.60 

Cicero  in  his  Tusculan  Disputations61  says  that  the  maxim 
means  "Know  your  soul"  and  that  the  body  is,  as  it  were,  a 
vase  or  some  receptacle  thereof.  Porphyry  expresses  the 
thought  somewhat  similarly  in  writing  to  Marcella,  "Unless 
thou  dost  keep  thy  body  joined  to  thee  only  as  ...  .  the  sheath 
is  joined  to  the  sprouting  grain,  thou  wilt  not  know  thyself."62 
And  in  another  passage  likewise  Porphyry  speaks  of  the  duty 
of  the  soul  to  know  itself  existent  in  another  substance  and 
bound  together  with  a  different  essence.63 

In  the  Alcibiades  I  we  find  the  idea  that  the  soul  is  the  real 
self  further  expressed  by  the  phrase  "The  soul  is  the  man."64 
Hence  the  maxim  was  sometimes  taken  as  a  command  to  know 
man;  and  according  to  Porphyry,  some  people  asserted  that 
since  man  is  a  microcosm,  a  small  universe,  it  is  a  command  to 
be  a  philosopher.65  The  Stoics  regarded  yv&di  aeavrov  not  only 
as  the  beginning  of  philosophy  but  as  its  very  sum  and  sub- 
stance. The  idea  that  philosophy  begins  with  self-knowledge 
occurs  in  Philostratus'  Apollonius  of  Tyana,66  where  some  Indi- 
an sages  tell  Apollonius  that  they  know  all  things,  since  they 
first  know  themselves,  for  no  one  approaches  that  philosophy 
without  first  knowing  himself;  and  the  thought  is  also  expressed 
by  Epictetus,67  by  Seneca,68  and  by  Julian.69  That  yvcodu  ceavrov 
tended  to  embrace  all  the  philosophy  of  the  Stoics  is  indicated 
by  several  passages  in  Cicero,70  and  the  idea  is  expressed  with 
especial  fulness  in  his  Laws: 


64  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

Philosophy  alone  teaches  us  ...  .  that  which  is  most  difficult — that 
we  know  ourselves;  and  so  great  is  the  force  and  thought  of  this  precept 
that  it  is  attributed  not  to  some  man,  but  to  the  Delphic  God.  For  he 
who  knows  himself  will  perceive  first  of  all  that  he  possesses  something 
divine,  and  he  will  think  of  his  spirit  within  him  as  something  conse- 
crated, like  a  sacred  image,  and  he  will  always  do  and  think  something 
worthy  of  so  great  a  gift  from  the  gods.  And  when  he  has  perceived  him- 
self and  tested  himself  fully,  he  will  know  with  what  natural  equipment  he 
came  into  life,  and  what  means  he  has  for  obtaining  and  acquiring  Phi- 
losophy, inasmuch  as  he  will  conceive  first  of  the  knowledge  of  all  things 
shadowed,  as  it  were,  in  his  mind  and  soul;  and  with  this  made  clear,  he 
will  see  that  under  the  leadership  of  Philosophy  he  will  be  a  good  man,  and 

for  that  very  reason,  happy And  when  he  has  observed  the  sky, 

and  the  earth,  and  the  seas,  and  the  nature  of  all  things,  and  whence  these 
were  generated,  and  whither  they  return  ....  and  when  he  shall  see 
himself  regulating  and  almost  ruling  them,  and  shall  comprehend  that  he 
is  not  surrounded  by  the  walls  of  some  one  place,  but  shall  recognize 
himself  as  a  citizen  of  the  whole  universe  as  if  it  were  one  city — in  this 
splendid  conception  of  things  and  in  this  grasp  of  a  knowledge  of  Nature, 
ye  Immortal  Gods,  how  he  will  know  himself!  In  view  of  the  precept 
which  the  Pythian  gave,  how  he  will  condemn,  how  he  will  despise,  how 
he  will  count  as  nought  those  things  that  are  commonly  called  most  im- 
portant! ....  And  when  he  perceives  that  he  has  been  born  for  civil 
society,  he  will  think  not  only  that  he  ought  to  use  that  careful  reasoning 
for  himself,  but  also  that  he  ought  to  diffuse  more  widely  the  power  of 
speech  by  which  he  rules  peoples,  establishes  laws,  chastises  the  wicked, 
gives  recognition  to  the  Good  ....  consoles  the  afflicted,  and  records 
the  deeds  and  counsels  of  the  brave  and  wise  ....  in  eternal  monuments. 
These  are  the  powers,  many  and  great  as  they  are,  which  those  who  wish 
to  know  themselves  see  to  be  in  man;  and  the  parent  and  nurse  of  these  is 
Philosophy.71 

While  the  Stoics  thus  developed  the  idea  that  the  maxim 
means  "Know  your  soul"  until  it  came  to  include  the  main 
tenets  of  their  philosophy  of  man  and  his  relation  to  the  uni- 
verse and  to  society,  the  Neo-Platonists  concerned  themselves 
with  the  possible  metaphysical  implications  of  the  apothegm. 
With  them,  the  soul's  knowledge  of  itself  included  a  psychologi- 


TN120I  SEAT  TON  IN  GREEK  AND  LATIN        65 

cal  analysis  of  its  faculties  and  functions,  and  they  connected 
the  maxim  also  with  the  idea  of  self-consciousness  and  applied 
it  to  certain  of  the  soul's  activities.  The  psychological  analysis 
of  the  soul  began  in  Plato  and  was  carried  on  by  Aristotle,  but 
it  is  the  Neo-Platonists  who  link  it  with  the  maxim.  Plotinus 
says,  in  his  first  chapter  on  the  "Difficulties  about  the  Soul," 
that  in  investigating  these  difficulties  we  would  obey  the  com- 
mand of  the  God  which  bids  us  know  ourselves;72  and  again 
he  says: 

yvtu#i  creavrov  is  spoken  to  those  who  on  account  of  the  number  of 
selves  have  the  task  of  counting  and  learning  to  know  how  many  and  of 
what  sort  they  are,  for  they  do  not  know  all,  or  in  fact  any,  nor  what 
rules,  nor  according  to  what  they  exist.73 

The  connection  of  the  idea  of  self-consciousness  with  the 
apothegm  really  begins  with  Plato's  Charmides,  where,  after 
discussing  yv&Qi  creavrov  as  a  definition  of  croxfrpocrvvri,  Socrates 
takes  the  epistemological  point  of  view  and  argues  that,  unlike 
other  sciences,  the  science  of  self-knowledge  has  its  object  with- 
in itself.  Critias  thinks  that  such  a  science  would  include  both 
a  knowledge  of  itself  and  other  knowledge,  and  Socrates  adds 
that  it  would  involve  the  absence  of  knowledge  also.  But  such 
an  inclusive  science  is  shown  not  to  exist  in  the  realm  of  sense, 
and  it  needs  some  great  man  to  determine  if  it  exists  at  all.  The 
Charmides  leaves  the  question  there;  but  the  puzzle  as  to 
whether  if  a  thing  knows  itself,  it  does  not  combine  within 
itself  the  qualities  of  subject  and  object,  of  knower  and  known, 
is  brought  up  again  in  the  Parmenides™  and  discussed  in  Aris- 
totle's Be  Anima.  Plotinus  and  other  Neo-Platonists  take  up 
the  theme  and  argue  that  thinker  and  thought,  knower  and 
known,  are  identical,  in  phraseology  which  is  often  suggestive 
of  the  maxim.  Plotinus  regards  the  soul  as  a  mean  between  the 
world  of  sense  and  the  Higher  Intelligence,  or  Nous,  and  pos- 
sessing three  faculties — the  faculty  of  sense  perception,  the 


66  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

faculty  by  which  judgments  are  formed  in  relation  to  sense 
impressions,  and  pure  reason  or  intelligence,  which  he  calls  the 
"Nous  in  the  soul,"  because  of  its  likeness  to  the  Higher  Nous. 
The  self-knowledge  of  the  Higher  Nous  and  of  the  Nous  in  the 
soul  is  a  purely  intellectual  self-knowledge^ — the  self-conscious- 
ness of  the  individual  and  of  the  general  mind,  the  turning  of  the 
mind  in  upon  itself  until  thinker  and  thought  are  one.  He  says: 

The  self-knowledge  of  the  Nous  of  the  soul  consists  in  knowing  itself 
no  longer  as  man,  but  as  having  become  altogether  different,  in  hastening 
to  unite  itself  with  the  Higher  alone,  and  drawing  on  the  better  part  of 
the  soul,  which  alone  is  able  to  be  winged  toward  intelligence,  that  it 
may  deposit  in  the  better  part  of  the  soul  what  it  has  seen.75 

Thus,  as  Brett  writes  in  his  History  of  Psychology,76  "the  self- 
knowledge  of  the  Nous  in  the  soul  represents  with  Plotinus 
an  intermediary  stage  between  consciousness  of  objects  and 
the  final  unity,  which  has  no  distinction  of  subject  and  object." 
In  that  "intermediary  stage,"  then,  self-knowledge  and  self- 
consciousness  are  one. 

The  Neo-Platonist  commentators  on  the  Alcibiades  I, 
Proclus  and  Olympiodorus,  relate  y^co0i,  aeavrov  to  the  activi- 
ties by  which  the  soul  abstracts  itself  from  the  realm  of  sense 
and  gives  itself  to  pure  speculative  thought  and  contemplation 
— the  cathartic,  or  purifying,  and  the  theoretic,  or  contempla- 
tive, activities.  Proclus  says77  with  reference  to  the  cathartic 
activity: 

As  an  inscription  at  the  entrance  to  the  precinct  at  Eleusis  forbids 
the  uninitiated  to  enter,  so  the  yvwOt  aeavrov  at  Delphi  shows  the  way  of 
approach  to  the  divine  and  the  most  effectual  road  to  purification.  It 
says  that  he  who  knows  himself  "beginning  at  the  hearth''78  is  able  to 
be  united  with  God,  the  revealer  and  guide  of  universal  truth  and  of  the 
purified  life.79 

Olympiodorus80  describes  the  theoretic  activity — that  of  pure 
contemplation— in  his  discussion  of  the  figure  of  the  eye  in  the 


TNfiei  SEAT  TON  IN  GREEK  AND  LATIN         67 

Alcibiades  I.  Both  of  these  activities,  the  cathartic  and  the 
theoretic,  are  implied  in  the  words  of  Julian,  that  to  know  one's 
self  and  be  like  the  gods  "one  must  stand  completely  out  of 
himself,  and  know  that  he  is  divine,  and  keep  his  own  Nous 
untiringly  and  unwaveringly  fixed  on  divine  and  undented  and 
pure  thoughts,  and  he  must  disregard  the  body  altogether."81 
This  thought,  which  is  also  voiced  by  Macrobius  in  his  Com- 
mentary on  Scipio's  Dream82  and  elsewhere,  indicates  that  while 
perfect  self-knowledge  is  the  possession  of  the  Higher  Nous 
alone,  the  more  fully  man  exercises  the  theoretic  activity,  the 
nearer  is  his  approach  to  the  entire  fulfilment  of  the  God's  com- 
mand and,  according  to  Porphyry,  to  the  attainment  of  true 
happiness. 

While  heedless  youth  and  unthinking  men  of  maturer  years 
sometimes  construed  the  maxim  lightly,  as  if  it  meant  merely 
"Know  who  you  are"  in  a  superficial  sense,  men  who  gave  it 
deep  consideration  were  ever  impressed  with  its  difficulty.  The 
poet  Ion  exclaims:  "This  yv&di  golvtov  is  a  little  word,  but  the 
task — how  great  it  is  Zeus  only  knows!"83  In  fact,  so  common 
was  it  to  speak  of  the  maxim  in  some  such  way  that  "yvcbdu 
aeavrbv  is  hard"  became  a  sort  of  proverb  in  itself.  Just  what 
was  meant  by  its  difficulty  would  depend,  of  course,  upon  how 
it  was  construed  in  given  instances;  and  so  would  the  question 
of  which  is  harder — to  know  ourselves  or  to  know  others.84  But 
hard  as  it  was,  the  maxim  in  its  simpler  ethical  forces  was  not 
thought  to  be  beyond  the  possibility  of  a  reasonable  degree  of 
attainment  on  the  part  of  the  average  man;  taken  in  its  philo- 
sophical sense,  however,  it  came  to  be  regarded  as  unattainable 
by  all  except  the  philosopher,  and  even  he  could  know  himself 
neither  continuously  nor  perfectly,  for  that  is  the  prerogative 
of  God  alone. 

The  difficulty,  and  at  the  same  time  the  desirability,  of 


68  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

obeying  the  Delphic  command  led  naturally  to  the  question, 
"How  can  a  man  know  himself?"  Answers  to  that  question  in 
ancient  literature  again  depend  to  a  considerable  extent  upon 
what  a  given  writer  means  by  self-knowledge.  In  Plato,  Socra- 
tes regards  dialectic  as  the  remedy  for  a  false  conceit  of 
wisdom;  and  his  teaching  implies  that  this  method  is  a  help 
to  the  man  who  would  know  his  soul.  In  the  chapter  on 
"Friendship"  in  Aristotle's  Ethics  it  is  suggested  that,  since 
our  friends  are  attracted  to  us  by  similar  qualities,  we  may  as- 
sume that  the  characteristics  which  they  exhibit  are  ours  also, 
in  accordance  with  the  old  saying,  "A  friend  is  a  second  self." 
The  author  of  the  Magna  Moralia,85  who  cites  the  maxim  in 
this  connection,  adds  that  just  as  when  we  wish  to  see  our  face, 
we  do  so  by  looking  in  a  mirror,  so  when  we  wish  to  know  our- 
selves, we  would  acquire  that  knowledge  by  looking  at  our 
friend.  Aristotle,  however,  is  speaking  of  a  friendship  between 
people  of  lofty  ideals,  and  with  him  the  self-knowledge  gained 
from  observing  our  friend  would  lead  to  a  realization  of  our 
own  worth.  The  author  of  the  Magna  Moralia  does  not  so 
qualify  the  characters  concerned,  and  it  is  a  knowledge  of  our 
faults  to  which  he  refers.  Galen  would  make  use  of  a  friend  to 
this  end  in  a  little  different  way,  for  he  proposes  that  an  un- 
biased friend  tell  us  of  the  faults  which  he  sees.86  The  figure 
of  the  mirror,  which  is  ever  recurring  in  later  literature,  is 
elaborated  by  Seneca,  who  says  that  mirrors  were  invented 
that  man  might  know  himself;87  and  Olympiodorus  compares 
the  yv&Oi  aeavrbv  on  the  temple  of  Apollo  to  the  mirrors  placed 
on  Egyptian  temples.88  The  thought  that  the  stage  is  a  kind 
of  mirror  in  which  a  man  may  recognize  himself  occurs  in 
Lucian's  essay  on  Pantomime.  "The  Delphic  yvoodi  aeavrov  is 
thereby  realized,"  Lucian  says,  and  people  "go  away  from  the 
theatre  cognizant  of  what  they  ought  to  choose  and  what  to 


TN120I  SEAT  TON  IN  GREEK  AND  LATIN        69 

avoid,  instructed  in  what  they  did  not  know  before."89  And 
there  is  a  hint  in  one  of  Martial's  epigrams  that  the  reading  of 
certain  types  of  literature  may  reveal  man  to  himself.90 

Philo  Judaeus  saw  a  means  to  self-knowledge  in  the  Hebrew 
rite  of  sprinkling  candidates  for  purification  with  a  mixture  of 
ashes  from  the  sacred  fire  and  water — reminders,  he  says,  of 
man's  humble  origin.91  The  Stoics'  doctrine  that  man  is  a  part 
of  the  soul  of  Nature  led  them  to  regard  a  knowledge  of  the  uni- 
verse as  a  means  of  attaining  knowledge  of  one's  soul.  This  is 
what  Cicero  means  when  he  says  in  his  De  Finibus  that  without 
a  knowledge  of  natural  philosophy  we  cannot  see  the  force  of 
certain  maxims  such  as  nosce  te;92  and  he  expresses  the  thought 
in  other  passages,  including  the  one  from  the  Laws  quoted 
above.  This  idea  occurs  frequently,  too,  in  the  writings  of  the 
Church  Fathers.  Clement  of  Alexandria,  for  instance,  says,  in 
speaking  of  the  maxim,  that  "we  must  concern  ourselves  with 
the  origin  of  the  world,  as  through  a  knowledge  of  this  it  will 
be  possible  to  understand  the  nature  of  man."93  And  Minucius 
Felix  says: 

Man  ought  to  know  himself  ....  what  he  is,  and  whence  and  why — 
whether  collected  from  the  elements,  or  formed  harmoniously  from  atoms, 
or  rather  made,  fashioned,  and  animated  by  God;  and  we  cannot  investi- 
gate and  draw  forth  this  knowledge  without  inquiring  into  the  universe, 
since  all  things  are  so  closely  connected  and  bound  together  that  unless 
you  examine  diligently  the  methods  of  divinity,  you  cannot  know  hu- 
manity  94 

So  the  Stoics  said  virtually  that  the  way  to  know  one's  self  is 
to  know  God,  and  this  truth  is  ever  recurring  in  the  literature 
of  the  church.  The  converse  of  this  thought — that  to  know 
God  one  must  know  himself — is  likewise  suggested  by  Greek 
philosophy  and  rills  many  a  page  of  church  literature.  But  it 
is  the  illuminating  power  of  God  which  reveals  us  to  our  own 


7o  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

hearts.  As  St.  Augustine  puts  it  in  the  chapter  of  his  Con- 
fessions entitled  aMan  Does  Not  Wholly  Know  Himself": 
"What  I  know  about  myself,  I  know  by  thine  enlightening  me, 
and  what  I  do  not  know  about  myself  I  shall  not  know  until 
my  darkness  become  as  noonday  in  thy  sight."95 

The  theme  of  self-knowledge,  which  is  so  generally  linked 
with  the  Delphic  yvcbdi  aeavrov  in  Greek  and  Latin  literature, 
came  to  play  an  important  part  in  the  doctrines  of  the  Chris- 
tian church;  but  allusions  to  the  maxim  are  comparatively  in- 
frequent, and  they  grow  even  fewer  as  the  Classical  period 
passes  into  the  Medieval.  We  scarcely  ever  rind  either  maxim 
or  theme  in  the  literature  of  the  Apostolic  age,  and  we  find  it 
only  in  certain  authors  in  the  centuries  immediately  succeed- 
ing. Clement  of  Alexandria  cites  the  maxim  repeatedly,  how- 
ever; and  it  occurs  in  the  writings  of  Irenaeus  and  Hippolytus 
of  the  Eastern  church,  and  in  those  of  Minucius  Felix  and 
Tertullian  of  the  Western.  Clement  follows  the  Jewish  tradi- 
tion of  trying  to  refer  the  origin  of  much  in  Greek  literature  to 
the  Hebrews,  and  declares  that  the  Greeks  borrowed  yv&di 
aeavrov,  as  well  as  eyyva,  Tapa  5'  arrj,  from  the  Old  Testament.96 
He  connects  it  with  a  phrase  from  the  Pentateuch — "Give  heed 
to  thyself."97  Clement's  pupil  and  successor,  Origen,  connects  it 
with  a  clause  in  the  Song  of  Songs — "If  thou  know  not  (thy- 
self), 0  thou  fairest  among  Women."98  Later  writers,  following 
Clement  and  Origen,  usually  discuss  the  theme  of  self-knowl- 
edge in  connection  with  one  or  the  other  of  these  texts.  Basil, 
for  instance,  wrote  a  homily  entitled  Give  Heed  to  Thyself;  and 
expositions  of  the  verse  in  the  Song  of  Songs  are  numerous. 
But  discussions  and  allusions  to  the  theme  occur  in  other  con- 
nections also,  for  there  are  suggestive  passages  in  Eusebius, 
and  in  a  number  of  ecclesiastical  works  of  the  fourth  and  fifth 
centuries,  especially  in  those  of  Ambrose  and  Augustine. 


rNftGI  SEAT  TON  IN  GREEK  AND  LATIN        71 

Many  of  the  more  prominent  Fathers  were  familiar  with 
Greek  literature,  and  their  writings  reflect  conceptions  which 
the  Stoics  and  others  connected  with  the  maxim,  although  more 
of  them  drew  largely  upon  the  works  of  their  predecessors  in 
the  faith  and  the  literature  as  a  whole  is  characterized  by  a 
great  deal  of  repetition.  Of  the  conceptions  which  the  Greeks 
connected  with  Y^coflt  creavrov,  those  which  occur  most  frequent- 
ly in  the  writings  of  the  Fathers  are  Stoic  tenets;  but  there  are 
echoes  of  Plato  and  of  the  Neo-Platonists  also.  The  most  re- 
current Stoic  theme  is  that  of  man's  knowledge  of  himself  in 
relation  to  the  universe.  Basil,  for  instance,  calls  the  City  of 
the  Universe  our  first  native  country,  wherein  we  see  the  origin 
of  man;99  and  again  he  says  that  we  may  trace  the  Creator  in 
ourselves  as  in  a  microcosm.100  The  direct  influence  of  Plato  is 
seen  in  Ambrose's  Hexaemeron,  where  he  says, 

We  are  one  thing,  ours  is  another,  what  is  around  us  is  another 

Attend  to  yourself,  therefore,  and  know  yourself — that  is,  not  what  sort 
of  limbs  you  have  nor  how  much  physical  endurance,  nor  how  great  pos- 
sessions, nor  how  much  power,  but  the  character  of  your  soul  and  mind.101 

And  there  is  something  of  the  Neo-Platonist  spirit  in  one  of 
Ambrose's  comments  touching  the  verse  in  the  Song  of  Songs: 

Know  yourself,  therefore,  and  what  becomes  of  your  nature;  put  off 
the  chains  from  your  feet,  as  it  were  ....  that  you  may  not  perceive 
your  fleshly  integuments,  and  that  the  bonds  of  the  body  may  not  en- 
tangle the  footsteps  of  your  mind.102 

Origen  would  make  the  soul's  knowledge  of  itself  include  a 
knowledge  of  its  place  in  the  order  of  spirits103 — a  limited 
hierarchy  of  whom  came  into  Christianity  through  Philo  and 
the  old  Hebrew  faith.  Self-knowledge  is  thus  predicated  of  the 
Trinity  severally  and  collectively,104  and  of  the  angels.105  That 
self-knowledge  is  a  necessary  aid  to  the  apprehension  of  God 


72  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

is  repeatedly  expressed,  sometimes  in  passages  where  the 
maxim  is  cited.106  But  the  Church  Fathers  did  not  limit  man's 
apprehension  of  God  to  the  philosophically  minded.  Only  the 
select  few  could  know  him  by  that  road — by  knowledge,  by 
metaphysical  abstraction — but  others  could  know  him  by  faith; 
and  Augustine  even  indicates  that  the  way  of  faith  is  in  a  sense 
superior  to  that  of  knowledge,  for  in  this  way  God  can  actively 
reveal  both  himself  and  man's  nature  to  man's  soul.107 

The  self-knowledge  revealed  by  faith  and  by  the  teachings 
of  the  Church  included  in  the  main  two  ideas  which,  though 
essentially  Hebraic,  are  in  a  measure  peculiar  to  Christianity 
as  distinguished  from  Greek  and  Roman  conceptions — that 
God  created  man  in  his  own  image  and  that  man  is  by  nature 
sinful  and  in  need  of  repentance.  Both  of  these  ideas  are  more 
or  less  directly  related  to  yvcodi  aeavrbv  in  the  works  of  the 
Fathers.  The  first  is  expressed  by  Clement  of  Alexandria,  who 
says  that  the  maxim  means,  "Know  whose  image  thou  art, 
what  is  thine  essence  and  what  thy  creation."108  Hippolytus 
also  says,  "This  is  the  yv&di  aeavrbv,  the  recognizing  that  God 
has  made  us";109  and  Ambrose  asks,  "What  is  se  noscere  except 
for  each  one  to  know  that  he  is  made  after  the  image  and  like- 
ness of  God?"110  The  other  meaning  is  apparent  in  a  further 
statement  of  Clement's: 

He  who  knows  his  life  to  be  sinful  will  loose  it  from  the  sin  by  which 
it  is  drawn  away,  and  when  he  has  loosed  it,  he  will  find  it,  according  to 
the  obedience  which  lives  again  to  faith  and  dies  to  sin; — this  it  is  to 
find  the  soul — to  know  one's  self."1 

And  Ambrose  construes  the  verse  in  the  Song  of  Songs,  "Un- 
less you  know  that  you  are  mortal  ....  and  confess  your  sins 
....  unless  you  know  yourself  ....  the  grace  of  your  fathers 
will  avail  you  naught."112 


TN06I  SEATTON  IN  GREEK  AND  LATIN        73 

It  is  likely  that  this  last  meaning  for  the  maxim  is  really 
an  outgrowth  of  the  Greek  connotation  "Know  you  are  hu- 
man." In  like  manner,  it  would  seem  that  "Know  you  are 
mortal"  was  extended  by  certain  of  the  church  writers  to  mean 
"Know  that  you  have  a  mortal  body,  but  that  your  soul  is 
immortal."  Basil,  for  example,  says  in  his  Give  Heed  to  Thyself: 

Know  thine  own  nature,  that  thy  body  is  mortal,  thy  soul  immor- 
tal, and  that  thy  life  is  somehow  two-fold — thine  own  life  after  the 
flesh  which  quickly  passeth,  and  the  inborn  life  of  the  soul  which  knoweth 
no  bounds.113 

And  Tertullian  connects  the  doctrine  of  immortality  with  the 
maxim,  although  he  taught  the  resurrection  of  the  body  also. 
He  is  speaking  of  the  renewal  of  the  seasons  and  of  other  em- 
blems of  the  resurrection,  and  he  says:  "Thou  man,  ....  if 
thou  dost  know  thyself,  in  accordance  with  the  Pythian  inscrip- 
tion, thou  lord  of  all  things  that  die  and  rise  again,  shalt  thou 
die  to  perish  (evermore)?""4  But  while  these  connotations  of 
the  maxim  and  of  the  theme  of  self-knowledge  are  largely  pecul- 
iar as  such  to  the  literature  of  the  church,  the  ideas  themselves 
were  not  confined  to  Christianity.  The  essential  divinity  of  the 
soul  and  a  kind  of  immortality  formed  a  part  of  the  teachings  of 
Plato  and  some  of  the  later  philosophers;  and  the  idea  of  the 
hindrance  imposed  by  the  flesh  led  to  the  indifference  of  the 
Stoics  to  carnal  desires,  and  to  the  asceticism  of  the  Pythago- 
reans and  the  Neo-Platonists.  The  line  of  demarcation  between 
Greek  philosophical  tenets  and  those  of  Christianity,  which 
really  grew  up  under  their  influence,  cannot  be  drawn  too 
sharply;  and  however  little  they  may  have  realized  it,  the 
Church  Fathers  owed  much  of  the  thought  which  they  associ- 
ated with  self-knowledge  to  Apollo's  yv&Oi  aeavrbv. 


CHAPTER  V 

THE  THEME  OF  SELF-KNOWLEDGE  IN 
MEDIEVAL  LITERATURE 

Direct  allusions  to  yv&di  aeavrov  are  comparatively  few  in 
the  period  from  a.d.  500  to  a.d.  1500.  Yet  the  theme  of  self- 
knowledge,  which  was  so  definitely  related  to  the  maxim  in  the 
writings  of  the  Church  Fathers  of  the  first  centuries  of  the 
Christian  era,  persisted.  It  was  still  discussed  somewhat  in 
commentaries  upon,  or  allusions  to,  Song  of  Songs  1:8/  and 
occasionally  in  other  connections,2  with  the  connotations  found 
in  the  works  of  the  earlier  Fathers;  and  it  was  given  a  height- 
ened importance  in  the  writings  of  the  later  medieval  Mystics.3 
Self-knowledge  for  the  Mystics,  as  for  their  forefathers  in  the 
faith,  was  prerequisite  to  the  knowledge  of  God;  and  as  the 
consuming  aspiration  of  their  hearts  was  to  achieve  a  merging 
of  their  souls  with  the  Eternal,  the  way  thereto  was  of  para- 
mount importance  in  their  thought. 

The  Mystics  describe  the  approach  to  oneness  with  God  as 
a  difficult  and  carefully  graded  process,  which  consists,  broadly 
speaking,  of  three  general  stages — the  purgative,  the  illumina- 
tive, and  the  unitive.4  It  is  with  the  purgative  process  that  self- 
knowledge  has  chiefly  to  do,  although  it  continues  to  some  extent 
through  the  illuminative  process;5  and  the  third  or  unitive  stage 
becomes  possible  only  as  perfect  self-knowledge  has  been  ac- 
quired. The  beginning  of  purgation  is  reflection,  and  the  conse- 
quent recognition  of  our  sins,  which  leads  to  exceeding  sorrow 
and  confession.  In  the  illuminative  stage  all  of  the  faculties 
are  concentrated  upon  the  contemplation  of  God.  This  further 

74 


SELF-KNOWLEDGE  IN  MIDDLE  AGES  75 

reflection  upon  the  goodness  of  God  usually  leads  to  the  detec- 
tion of  hitherto  unsuspected  faults,  followed  by  further  sorrow 
and  confession;  while  penance  and  fasting  and  even  self-inflict- 
ed bodily  torture  are  frequently  resorted  to  in  order  to  free  the 
soul  from  the  trammels  of  the  flesh.  Trances  and  visions, 
though  not  peculiar  to  mysticism,  are  commonly  experienced 
by  those  who  lead  the  contemplative  life.  In  the  third  or  uni- 
tive  stage,  sometimes  called  "ecstatic,"  the  soul  is  conceived 
to  have  lost  all  sense  of  self — to  have  become  nothing,  as  it 
were,  in  its  oneness  with  God;6  or,  to  use  a  figure  of  Master 
Eckhart's,  the  divine  spark  at  the  apex  of  the  mind  has  been 
reached,  and  the  whole  being  is  bathed  in  its  light.7 

The  maxim  is  not  often  quoted  in  mystical  literature,  but 
its  indirect  connection  with  mysticism  is  obvious.  Much  has 
been  written  to  show  the  influence  of  Plato  and  the  Neo-Plato- 
nists,  through  Augustine,  and  especially  through  Pseudo- 
Dionysius  the  Areopagite,  upon  the  development  of  the  mysti- 
cal concept.  The  first  of  the  three  stages  indicated  above — 
namely,  the  purgative — corresponds  essentially  to  the  Neo- 
Platonist  cathartic  activity,  while  the  illuminative  and  unitive 
stages  are  comprised  in  the  theoretic  activity  of  the  Neo- 
Platonists;  and  we  have  seen  how  these  processes  or  activities 
are  related  to  yvo)6i  aeavrbv}  Modern  writers,  moreover,  have 
been  quick  to  connect  the  self-knowledge  of  the  Mystics  with 
the  inscription  on  Apollo's  temple.  Rudolf  Steiner  in  his 
Mystics  of  the  Renaissance9  quotes  from  the  opening  words  of 
Valentin  Weigel's  little  book  entitled  Tv&di  ^eavrov,10  and  adds, 
"A  similar  path  to  insight  and  a  like  relation  to  the  saying 
'Know  Thyself  may  be  ascribed  to  a  series  of  deep-natured 
thinkers,  beginning  with  Master  Eckhart  (1250-13 2 7)  and  end- 
ing with  Angelus  Silesius  (1624-77)."  And  Maeterlinck  says  in 
his  essay  on  Ruysbroeck:11 


76  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

We  are  dealing  here  with  the  most  exact  of  sciences.  We  have  to  ex- 
plore the  most  rugged  and  least  habitable  promontories  of  the  divine 
'Know  Thyself';  and  the  midnight  sun  hangs  over  the  tempestuous  sea, 
where  the  psychology  of  man  mingles  with  the  psychology  of  God. 

The  most  striking  characteristic  of  the  treatment  of  the 
theme  of  self-knowledge  in  medieval  literature  is  its  presenta- 
tion in  the  form  of  an  allegory  or  figure.  With  St.  Bernard  of 
Clairevaux  self-knowledge  is  a  door,  the  entrance  to  the  most 
intimate  chamber;12  or  again  it  is  a  ladder  by  which  the  soul 
may  ascend  to  the  heights.  He  says  in  his  treatise  On  the 
Interior  of  the  House: 

Enter  into  thine  heart;  learn  to  form  an  estimate  of  thy  spirit 

This  is  the  door,  this  the  ladder,  this  the  entrance,  this  your  ascent. 
Do  you  see  how  much  the  full  knowledge  of  self  avails  a  man?  From  this 
indeed  he  advances  to  the  knowledge  of  all  things  in  the  Heavens,  on 
the  earth,  and  in  the  World  Below.13 

Richard  of  St.  Victor  treats  of  self-knowledge  in  his  Prepara- 
tion of  the  Soul  for  Contemplation,  the  Book  Called  Benjamin 
Minor,  which  serves  as  a  sort  of  preface  to  his  Benjamin  Major 
in  which  he  discusses  the  contemplative  life.  Benjamin  is  the 
allegorical  type  of  contemplation.  His  mother  Rachel,14  or  Rea- 
son, has  an  older  son  Joseph,  or  Discretion,  by  whom  the  soul 
is  instructed  in  the  knowledge  of  itself.  Benjamin  is  necessarily 
born  long  after  Joseph,15  and  at  his  birth  Rachel — that  is, 
Reason — dies.16  Self-knowledge  is  presented  under  the  figure 
of  a  mountain: 

The  soul  which  strives  to  ascend  to  the  top  of  the  mountain  of 
knowledge  should  have  as  its  first  and  chief  pursuit  the  knowing  of  itself. 
To  perfectly  know  one's  self  is  the  high  mountain  peak  of  knowledge. 
It  is  a  large  and  high  mountain — the  full  knowledge  of  the  reasoning 
spirit.  That  mountain  is  higher  than  the  peaks  of  all  worldly  knowledge; 
from  its  height  it  looks  down  upon  all  the  philosophy  and  all  the  knowl- 
edge of  the  world As  far  as  you  progress  each  day  in  the  knowl- 


SELF-KNOWLEDGE  IN  MIDDLE  AGES  77 

edge  of  yourself,  so  far  do  you  ascend  toward  the  higher  regions.  He 
who  arrives  at  the  perfect  knowledge  of  himself  has  already  apprehended 
the  top  of  the  mountain.17 

It  was  on  this  mountain  top  that  Christ  was  transfigured,  he 
says  further,  and  if  we  wish  to  see  Christ  transfigured,  we  must 
ascend  it  by  learning  to  know  ourselves:  "For  he  descended 
from  Heaven  when  he  uttered  yvcodi  aeavrov,  that  is,  Nosce 
teipsum.,,lS  St.  Bernard  has  been  made  familiar  to  us  in  Dante's 
Paradiso,19  where  he  serves  as  guide  after  Beatrice  returns  to 
her  throne.  Richard  of  St.  Victor's  Benjamin  Major  probably 
furnished  much  of  the  mystical  material  of  the  Paradiso,20  and 
that  his  mountain  of  self-knowledge  was  in  Dante's  mind  when 
he  wrote  the  Purgatorio  has  been  well  demonstrated  by  Ed- 
mund Gardner  in  his  book  entitled  Dante  and  the  Mystics.21 

When  St.  Catherine  of  Siena,  at  the  age  of  fifteen,  was 
forced  by  her  family  to  fill  her  days  with  menial  labor  that 
she  might  have  no  time  for  prayer  and  devotion,  she  resolved 
to  form  a  "cell  of  self-knowledge"  within  her  own  heart  and 
dwell  therein.22  So  completely  did  she  live  in  that  cell,  both 
then  and  after  her  family  yielded  to  her  desire  for  a  cell  in  her 
home,  that  she  continually  recommended  the  exercise  of  self- 
knowledge  to  others  under  that  figure  in  her  letters  and  in  the 
Dialogo.  For  instance,  she  writes  to  Sister  Eugenia,  her  niece, 
"I  command  thee,  dearest  daughter  mine,  that  thou  abide  for- 
ever in  the  cell  of  self-knowledge."23  In  her  chapter  on  "Prayer" 
she  says  that  when  the  soul  has  arrived  at  the  house  of  self- 
knowledge  and  entered  therein,  it  remains  barred  in  with 
watching  and  constant  prayer,24  although  it  may  come  out  at 
intervals  with  virtues  to  meet  a  neighbor's  needs.25  In  another 
passage  in  the  Dialogo  she  pictures  self-knowledge  as  a  stable 
where  one  must  be  born  again,  as  Christ  was  born  of  old.26 
St.  Angela  de  Folgino  represents  self-knowledge  as  a  prison 


78  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

from  which  we  must  never  depart.27  Self-knowledge  is  a 
highway  leading  to  contemplation  in  Walter  Hilton's  Scale  of 
Perfection;2*  and  in  a  little  treatise  by  an  unknown  Mystic  en- 
titled A  Very  Necessary  Epistle  of  Discretion  in  Stirrings  of  the 
Soul  it  is  the  haven  into  which  a  ship  sails  through  storm  and 
calm.29 

The  meaning  of  self-knowledge  for  the  medieval  Mystics 
has  already  been  indicated.  For  them,  as  for  their  predecessors, 
to  know  one's  self  meant  to  come  to  a  knowledge  of  one's  sins,30 
to  humble  one's  spirit,31  to  seek  out  the  faults  to  which  we  are 
prone,32  and  to  recognize  the  fact  that  while  our  bodies  are 
made  of  the  dust  of  the  earth,  our  souls  are  made  in  the  image 
of  God.33  The  Mystics  go  farther  than  the  early  church  writers, 
however,  in  their  exaggerated  contempt  for  the  flesh  as  some- 
thing utterly  vile,34  and  in  a  consequent  endeavor  to  free  the 
soul  from  its  defilement  by  neglecting  and  afflicting  the  body. 
St.  Catherine  of  Siena  says  that  there  is  a  sword  in  the  cell  of 
self-knowledge  with  which  to  cut  self  from  self  and  come  to 
hate  sin  and  frailty;35  and  this  is  no  idle  figure  from  the  pen 
of  a  woman  who,  like  many  of  her  brethren,  unfalteringly 
applied  the  steel  to  her  own  flesh.  In  its  attempt  to  attain 
self-knowledge,  the  soul  is  said  to  be  aided  by  temptation, 
which  is  sent  that  man  may  recognize  his  frailty  and  need  of 
God  in  the  face  of  it.36  Suffering  and  adversity  are  also  an  aid,37 
and,  of  course,  the  study  of  the  Bible38  and  prayer.39  With  the 
help  of  these  means,  coupled  always  with  reflection  and  con- 
templation, the  soul  comes  to  see  itself  and  God  with  its  inward 
eye;  for,  since  the  soul  is  the  image  of  God,  we  are  told,  the  soul 
which  looks  into  itself  sees  God  and  is  itself  reflected  by  God 
as  by  a  mirror.  But  as  it  sees  itself  reflected  in  the  mirror  of 
God's  purity,  its  own  remaining  defects  are  revealed.  Says  St. 
Catherine : 


SELF-KNOWLEDGE  IN  MIDDLE  AGES  79 

As  a  man  more  readily  sees  spots  on  his  face  when  he  looks  in  a 
mirror,  so  the  soul  who  with  true  knowledge  of  self  rises  with  desire  and 
gazes  with  the  eye  of  the  intellect  at  herself  in  the  sweet  mirror  of  God 
knows  better  the  stains  of  her  own  face  by  the  purity  which  she  sees  in 
him.  "40 

Accordingly,  Richard  of  St.  Victor  exhorts  us  to  cleanse  the 
mirror,  else  we  can  see  nothing  clearly;  for  if  the  mirror  is  not 
clean,  we  cannot  see  ourselves  nor  God.41  So  it  is  that  in  the 
doctrine  of  the  Mystics  there  is  a  point  at  which  knowledge  of 
self  and  knowledge  of  God  merge  into  one.  St.  Catherine  repre- 
sents them  as  together  forming  the  circumference  of  a  circle, 
of  which  Humility  is  the  diameter.42  But  while  they  are  so 
identical  that  a  full  knowledge  of  the  one  predicates  a  full 
knowledge  of  the  other,  they  are  yet  separate  entities,  as 
Master  Eckhart  tries  to  show  in  an  oft-quoted  passage: 

I  take  a  cup  of  water  and  lay  therein  a  mirror,  and  set  it  under  the 
disc  of  the  sun.  The  sun  casts  out  its  shining  light  on  the  mirror  and  yet 
doth  not  pass  away.  The  reflecting  of  the  mirror  in  the  sun  is  sun  in  the 
sun,  and  yet  the  mirror  remains  what  it  is.  So  it  is  about  God.  God  is  in 
the  soul  with  His  very  nature  and  being  and  Godhead  and  yet  He  is  not 
the  soul.  The  reflecting  of  the  soul  in  God,  is  God  in  God,  and  yet  the  soul 
is  still  that  which  it  is.43 

The  preachers  of  the  Middle  Ages  liked  to  enliven  their 
sermons  occasionally  with  a  story  to  which  could  be  given  an 
allegorical  meaning  with  a  moral  application.  In  the  collection 
of  stories  of  this  kind  known  as  the  Gesta  Romanorum,44  the 
following  story  occurs: 

There  was  a  certain  king  who  decreed  that  the  victor  returning  from 
war  should  have  a  threefold  honor  and  three  annoyances.  The  first  honor 
was  that  the  people  should  go  out  to  meet  the  victor  with  rejoicing.  The 
second,  that  all  the  captives  should  follow  his  chariot  bound  hand  and 
foot.  The  third,  that  clad  in  the  dress  of  Jupiter,  he  should  sit  on  a  chariot 
drawn  by  four  white  horses,  and  be  taken  to  the  Capitoline  temple.  That 


80  THE  DELPHIG  MAXIMS 

he  might  not  forget  himself  with  these  honors,  he  must  needs  bear  three 
annoyances.  The  first,  that  there  be  placed  with  him  in  the  chariot  a 
man  of  servile  rank,  that  hope  might  be  given  to  anyone,  no  matter 
how  lowly  his  condition,  of  arriving  at  such  an  honor,  if  his  uprightness 
should  merit  it.  The  second  annoyance  was  that  the  slave  should  keep 
striking  him,  that  he  might  not  be  too  proud,  saying,  "Nosce  te  ipsum, 
and  be  not  proud  of  such  a  great  honor.  Look  behind  you!  Remember 
that  you  are  a  human  being!"  The  third  annoyance  was  that  on  that 
day  any  one  whosoever  could  say  whatever  he  wished — all  sorts  of  abuse, 
of  course — against  the  person  of  the  man  who  was  holding  the  triumph.45 

In  the  " Application"  of  this  story,  the  king  is  made  to  represent 
the  Heavenly  Father,  and  the  triumphing  general  represents 
Christ,  who  has  obtained  a  glorious  victory  over  sin.  The  first 
honor  typifies  his  entry  into  Jerusalem;  the  second,  those  en- 
slaved by  sin;  and  the  third,  Christ's  divinity.  The  four  white 
horses  are  the  four  evangelists.  The  slave  is  the  worst  of  the 
two  thieves  crucified  with  the  Lord;  the  second  annoyance  is 
the  scourging  by  slaves;  and  the  third  is  the  opprobrium  and 
abuse  to  which  Christ  was  subjected. 

This  story,  with  its  patent  medieval  characteristics,  finds 
its  origin,  of  course,  in  the  customary  proceedings  at  a  Roman 
triumph;  for  the  dress  after  the  manner  of  Jupiter,46  the  four 
white  horses,47  the  jests  of  the  multitude,48  and  the  accompany- 
ing slave  saying,  "Look  behind  you,  Remember  that  you  are 
human,"49  are  well-known  features  of  such  an  occasion.50  It 
apparently  remained  for  the  unknown  author  of  this  tale,  how- 
ever, to  insert  Nosce  te  ipsum  in  the  slave's  injunction,  even 
though  the  maxim  was  easily  implied  in  the  phrase  which  was 
actually  used.51  Gower's  description  of  a  Roman  triumph  in 
his  Confessio  Amantis  may  have  been  influenced  by  this  tale, 
for  he  says  that  a  "ribald"  fellow  addressed  the  triumphator, 
saying: 


SELF-KNOWLEDGE  IN  MIDDLE  AGES  81 

Take  into  memorie 
For  all  this  pompe  and  all  this  pride 
Let  no  justice  gon  aside, 
But  know  thy  self,  whatso  befalle. 
For  men  seen  ofte  time  falle 
Thing  which  men  wende  siker  stonde.52 

A  few  of  the  other  poems  of  the  thirteenth  and  fourteenth 
centuries  also  echo  the  teaching  of  the  church  about  self-knowl- 
edge. When  Jean  de  Meung  extended  Guillaume  de  Lorris' 
poem  Le  Roman  de  la  Rose,  he  dragged  much  of  his  own  erudi- 
tion into  his  verses;  and  in  discussing  destiny,  necessity,  and 
free-will,  he  says: 

For  Free-will  hath  such  potent  might 
For  him  who  knows  himself  aright, 
That  he  his  path  may  guarantee, 
If  true  unto  himself  he  be; 
For  casting  from  his  heart  all  sin 
He  victory  o'er  the  stars  may  win." 

And  again  he  represents  Themis  as  saying  to  Deucalion  and 

Pyrrha:  JIT7  0& 

For  those  who  know  themselves,  may  spurn 

111  ways,  and  toward  fair  virtue  turn. 

Let  them  unto  their  God  address 

Their  prayers,  and  He  their  hearts  will  bless, 

For  those  most  wisely  love,  I  trow, 

Who  their  own  hearts  most  throughly  know.54 

In  the  Prologue  of  The  Prick  of  Conscience?*  sometimes  at- 
tributed to  Richard  Rolle,  we  read  that  the  right  way  to  bliss 
is  the  way  of  meekness,  and  dread,  and  love  of  God  Almighty, 
that  may  be  called  the  way  of  wisdom;  and  it  behooves  a  man 
to  know  himself  within,  else  he  may  have  no  knowing  of 
wisdom's  way, 


82  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

For  he  that  knows  well,  and  can  se 

What  himself  was,  is,  and  sal  be, 

A  wyser  man  may  he  be  talde 

Wether  he  be  yhung  man  or  aide, 

Than  he  that  can  alle  other  thyng 

And  of  himself  has  na  knawying. 

For  he  may  noght  right  God  knaw  ne  fele 

Bot  he  can  first  himself  wele: 

Tharfor  a  man  suld  first  lere 

To  knaw  himself  propely  here; 

For  if  he  hymself  knew  kyndely 

He  suld  haf  knawyng  of  God  almyghty. 

And  of  his  endyng  thynk  suld  he 

And  of  the  day  that  last  sal  be.56 

Chaucer  in  the  Person's  Tale  defines  humility  as  a  "vertue 
thrugh  which  a  man  hath  verray  knoweleche  of  himself,  and 
holdeth  of  him  self  no  prys  ne  deyntee  as  in  regard  of  hise 
desertes,  consideringe  evere  his  freletee."57  And  in  the  Wif  of 
Bath's  Tale  he  represents  poverty  (a  phase  of  adversity,  of 
course)  as  an  aid  to  self-knowledge: 

Povert  ful  ofte.  when  a  man  is  lowe, 
Maketh  his  god  and  eek  him  self  to  knowe.58 

On  the  borderland  of  the  Renaissance  we  find  that  reckless 
and  dissipated,  yet  original  songster,  Francois  Villon,  writing 
a  ballad  with  the  refrain,  "Je  cognois  tout,  forsque  moy- 
mesmes."  We  wish  that  we  knew  its  actual  mood.  Is  Villon 
flouting  the  solemn  insistence  of  the  church  upon  the  duty  of 
self-knowledge,  we  wonder;  or  is  he  merely  pensive  when  he 

sings : 

Flies  in  the  milk  I  know  full  well: 
I  know  men  by  the  clothes  they  wear: 
I  know  the  walnut  by  the  shell: 
I  know  the  foul  sky  from  the  fair: 


SELF-KNOWLEDGE  IN  MIDDLE  AGES  S3 

I  know  the  pear-tree  by  the  pear: 
When  things  go  well,  to  me  is  shown: 
I  know  who  works  and  who  forbear: 
I  know  all  save  myself  alone. 


I  know  how  horse  from  mule  to  tell: 
I  know  the  load  each  one  can  bear: 
I  know  both  Beatrice  and  Bell: 
I  know  the  hazards  odd  and  pair: 
I  know  of  visions  in  the  air: 
I  know  the  power  of  Peter's  throne 
And  how  misled  Bohemians  were: 
I  know  all  save  myself  alone. 

Envoi 

Prince,  I  know  all  things:  fat  and  spare 
Ruddy  and  pale,  to  me  are  known; 
And  Death  that  endeth  all  our  care: 
I  know  all  save  myself  alone.59 

And  lastly  for  this  period,  we  have  the  Narrenschiff  of 
Sebastian  Brandt.  This  satire,  so  famous  in  its  day,  was  first 
published  in  German  in  1494,  and  through  almost  immediate 
Latin  translations,  it  spread  over  Europe  and  passed  into  other 
languages.  It  is  best  known  to  us,  doubtless,  through  the  very 
free  translation  of  Alexander  Barclay,  published  in  1509. 
Brandt  tells  us  in  his  Prologue  that  the  work  is  a  mirror  in 
which  men  can  see  themselves.60  In  one  of  the  following  sec- 
tions of  the  poem  we  are  told  that  the  wise  man  endeavors 
only  to  know  himself;61  and  in  another  that  the  fool  cannot 
know  himself,  although  he  wants  to  know  precisely  about  alien 
matters.62  The  Envoi  which  Barclay  contributes  to  the  section 
last  mentioned  is  a  pertinent  expression  of  both  Brandt's  con- 
viction andlhis  own: 


84  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

Ye  people  that  labour  the  worlde  to  mesure 

Thereby  to  knowe  the  regyons  of  the  same, 

Knowe  firste  your  self,  that  knowledge  is  moste  sure, 

For  certaynly  it  is  rebuke  and  shame 

For  man  to  labour  onely  for  a  name. 

To  know  the  compasse  of  all  the  worlde  wyde, 

Not  knowynge  hym  selfe,  nor  ho  we  he  sholde  hym  gyde.63 


CHAPTER  VI 

rNOei  SEATTON  AND  THE  THEME  OF  SELF- 
KNOWLEDGE    IX   THE   LITERATURE 
OF  THE  SIXTEENTH  AND  SEVEN- 
TEENTH CENTURIES 

The  Renaissance,  which  had  started  in  Italy  in  the  fifteenth 
century,  came  to  flower  in  France  and  England  a  century  later; 
and  its  influence  continued  well  on  into  the  latter  half  of  the 
seventeenth  century.  These  centuries,  the  sixteenth  and  seven- 
teenth, mark  the  Golden  Age  of  Spanish  literature  also;  for 
while  the  terrors  of  the  Inquisition  stifled  free  thought,  there 
was  abundant  encouragement  for  works  of  the  imagination, 
especially  poetry,  during  the  heyday  of  Spain's  glory.  In  Italy, 
however,  the  repressive  influence  of  Spanish  domination  was 
more  deadening;  and  while  literature  continued  to  flourish  in 
the  sixteenth  century,  the  seventeenth  century  became  a  period 
of  stagnation — of  inferior  and  lessened  production.  German 
literature  was  small  in  quantity  and  inferior  in  quality  during 
these  centuries,  owing  to  the  religious  dissensions  following  the 
work  of  Luther  and  the  sufferings  entailed  by  the  Thirty  Years 
War.  Yet  the  interpretation  of  yvQBi  aeavrov,  and  the  treat- 
ment of  the  theme  of  self-knowledge  generally,  was  much  the 
same  throughout  the  sixteenth  and  seventeenth  centuries  in 
the  different  countries.  The  maxim  again  assumed  a  place  of 
some  importance  in  secular  literature;  while  discussions  of  the 
theme  of  self-knowledge,  some  of  them  of  considerable  length, 
occur  rather  frequently  in  ecclesiastical  writings. 

The  apothegm  is  quoted  in  the  works  of  the  earlier  spirits  of 

85 


86  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

the  northern  Renaissance,  Erasmus  and  Bude,  and  it  is  discussed 
by  prominent  prose-writers  of  the  period — in  England  by  Sir 
Thomas  Elyot,  Roger  Ascham,  Sir  Francis  Bacon,  Thomas 
Hobbes,  and  Sir  Thomas  Browne;  in  France  by  Rabelais  and 
Montaigne;  in  Belgium  by  Geulincx;  in  Germany  by  the  great 
jurist  Pufendorf ;  in  Italy  by  Speroni,  and  by  Boccalini,  author 
of  the  much-admired  Advertisements  from  Parnassus;  and  in 
Spain  by  Baltasar  Gracian  and  Cosme  Gomez  de  Texada.  The 
theme  of  self-knowledge  is  discussed  more  or  less  at  length, 
usually  with  some  allusion  to  the  maxim,  by  eminent  divines — 
by  Luther  and  Calvin;  by  Richard  Baxter  in  his  little  book,  The 
Mischiefs  of  Self -Ignorance  and  the  Benefits  of  Self -Acquaintance; 
by  Pierre  Charron,  friend  and  disciple  of  Montaigne,  in  his  De 
La  Sagesse;  by  Bossuet  in  his  treatise  De  la  Connaissance  de 
Dieu  et  de  Soi-Meme;  and  by  the  Spanish  mystics,  Fray  Luis  de 
Granada  and  Juan  d'Avila.  Other  lengthy  prose  discussions  of 
the  same  theme  are  the  De  la  Connaissance  de  Soi-Meme  by 
Pierre  Nicole,  one  of  the  Port-Royal  group,  and  the  Coloquio 
del  Conocimiento  de  si  Mismo  of  Dona  Oliva  Sabuco  de  Nantes 
Barrera.  When  we  turn  to  the  poets,  we  find  Nosce  Teipsum 
used  as  the  title  of  a  long  philosophical  poem  by  John  Davies, 
and  as  the  title  of  shorter  poems  by  John  Owen,  vice-chancellor 
of  Oxford  under  Cromwell;  by  the  seventeenth-century  Ger- 
man poets,  Jacob  Balde  and  Christian  Wernicke;  and  by  the 
Dutch  emblem-writers,  Schoonoven,  Heyns,  and  Kreihing. 
The  word  "self-knowledge,"  or  its  equivalent,  serves  as  title 
for  other  poems,  whether  it  be  the  long  Spanish  canciones  of 
Gregorio  Silvestre  and  Fray  Luis  de  Leon  or  the  two-verse 
epigrams  of  Friedrich  von  Logau,  the  best  German  didactic 
poet  of  the  period.  Ronsard  quotes  the  maxim,  as  does  Andrea 
Alciati;  likewise  Torquato  Tasso,  although  in  a  prose  work. 
La  Fontaine  evidently  had  it  in  mind  in  one  of  his  fables;  and 


TN129I  2EATT0N  IN  RENAISSANCE  87 

Donne  and  Milton  seem  to  show  the  influence  of  discussions  of 
the  theme  of  self-knowledge,  whether  current  or  ancient. 

That  the  contemporary  emphasis  upon  yv&di  aeavrov  was 
well  recognized  by  writers  of  this  period  is  indicated  by  Sir 
Thomas  Browne  in  his  Pseudodoxia1  when  he  says,  "Our  ora- 
tions cannot  escape  the  sayings  of  the  wise  men  of  Greece. 
Nosce  teipsum  ....  nihil  nimis."  Baltasar  Gracian  tells  us 
that  the  aphorism  of  knowing  one's  self  was  talked  of  early 
and  late.2  And  that  prominent,  though  somewhat  vacillating 
and  controversial  English  divine,  Robert  South,  says  in  one 
of  his  sermons,  "Tv&di  aeavrov  still  lives  and  flourishes  in  the 
mouths  of  all,  while  many  vast  volumes  are  extinct  and  sunk 
into  dust  and  oblivion."3  There  is  a  suggestion,  too,  of  the 
popularity  of  the  maxim  in  Richard  Baxter's  words,  "Tv&di 
aeavrov  is  many  a  man's  motto  that's  a  stranger  to  himself,  as 
the  house  may  be  dark  within  that  hath  the  sign  of  the  sun 
hanging  at  the  door."4  We  are  told  repeatedly  that  the  precept 
was  written  in  letters  of  gold  and  was  of  divine  origin;5  but  the 
tendency  to  regard  pre-Christian  Greeks  as  heathen  makes  Sir 
Thomas  Browne  call  this  maxim  the  " counsel  of  the  Devil  him- 
self";6 and  John  Davies  speaks  of  it  similarly  in  his  Nosce 
Teipsum: 

For  how  may  we  to  others'  things  attaine, 
When  none  of  us  his  own  soul  understands? 
For  which  the  Divell  mockes  our  curious  braine 
When  'Know  thy  self  his  oracle  commands.7 

Nicole  fails  to  connect  the  apothegm  with  Apollo's  temple  at 
all,  but  declares  that  our  aversion  to  the  truth  which  discovers 
us  to  ourselves  makes  us  think  that  Nosce  teipsum  did  not  arise 
from  a  common  light,  persuading  men  that  it  is  for  their  good, 
but  in  the  wickedness  of  heart  which  feels  inconvenienced  by 


88  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

other  men's  lack  of  self-knowledge  and  so  orders  others  to  seek 
what  one  does  not  desire  to  seek  for  himself.8 

While  no  unbroken  line  can  be  drawn  between  the  interpre- 
tation given  the  maxim  in  the  secular  and  in  the  religious  litera- 
ture of  these  centuries,  it  is  observable  that  secular  writers  use 
it  more  often  in  its  earlier  sense  of  knowing  one's  measure  and 
in  the  closely  connected  ideas  of  knowing  what  one  can  do  and 
knowing  one's  place.  Sometimes  this  interpretation  is  quite 
general,  and  the  reader  is  merely  exhorted  to  form  a  true  esti- 
mate of  his  capacities  and  virtues.  So  Erasmus  defines  Nosce 
te  ipsum,  yv&di  aeavrov,  as  a  saying  in  which  is  involved  humili- 
ty and  moderation  (modestiae  mediocritatisque) .9  Bacon  says  in 
his  discussion  of  the  maxim10  that  men  ought  to  take  an  im- 
partial view  of  their  own  abilities,  virtues,  and  helps;  and  again 
of  their  wants,  inabilities,  and  impediments.  And  Richard  Bax- 
ter in  The  Mischiefs  of  Self -Ignorance  and  the  Benefits  of 
Self-Acquaintance  says,11  "To  have  taken  the  true  measure  of 
our  capacities,  abilities,  infirmities,  and  necessities,  and  there- 
upon to  perceive  what  is  really  best  for  us  and  most  agree- 
able to  our  case  is  the  first  part  of  true,  practical,  saving 
knowledge."12 

In  other  instances,  knowing  one's  self  in  the  sense  of  taking 
one's  measure  is  used  as  a  warning  against  pride  and  vainglory 
and  a  general  overestimate  of  one's  self.  Sir  Thomas  Elyot,  in 
his  Book  Named  the  Governour*3  declares  that  a  gentleman's 
body  is  made  of  no  better  clay  than  a  carter's,  and  that  God 
has  given  as  much  liberty  of  will  to  the  poor  herdsman  as  to 
the  great  and  mighty  emperor.  "If  thou  be  a  governor,"  he 
continues,  "or  hast  over  others  sovereignty,  know  thyself,  that 
is  to  say,  know  that  thou  art  verily  a  man,  composed  of  soul 
and  body,  and  in  that  respect  all  other  men  be  equal  unto 
thee."  He  calls  dignity  or  authority  "but  a  weighty  or  heavy 


TN^GI  SEAT  TON  IN  RENAISSANCE  89 

cloke"  which  may  soon  be  taken  away.  "Therefore  whilst  thou 
wearest  it,"  he  says,  "know  thyself Ye  shall  know  al- 
ways yourself  if  ...  .  (ye>  remember  that  in  nothing  but  only 
in  virtue  ye  are  better  than  any  other  inferior  person."  Mon- 
taigne thinks  that  no  particular  quality  can  make  any  man 
proud  if  he  puts  his  weak  qualities  in  the  other  scale;  and  that 
"because  Socrates  had  really  only  nibbled  on  the  precept  of  his 
God  'de  se  cognoistre,'  and  by  reason  of  that  study  had  reached 
the  point  of  despising  himself,  he  alone  was  esteemed  worthy 
of  the  name  of  Wise."14  So  also  John  Davies  says  in  his  Nosce 
Teipsum: 

Take  heed  of  overweening  and  compare 
Thy  peacock's  feet  with  thy  gay  peacock's  train: 
Study  the  best  and  highest  things  that  are, 
But  of  thyself  an  humble  thought  retain.15 

Davies'  figure  of  the  peacock,  which  he  apparently  owed  to 
John  Lydgate's  "Poem  against  Self-Love,"16  may  be  the  source 
of  the  emblem  of  Zacharias  Heyns  entitled  "Nosce  te  ipsum,"17 
which  is  illustrated  by  a  picture  of  two  peacocks,  one  with  tail 
widespread,  and  the  other  with  drooping  feathers  looking  at  its 
own  feet  (Fig.  11).  The  accompanying  poem  explains  that  the 
peacock  was  strutting  about  displaying  its  feathers,  but  when 
it  saw  how  ugly  its  feet  were,  it  ceased  its  ostentation. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  ancients  sometimes  construed 
"knowing  one's  self"  to  mean  avoid  thinking  too  meanly  of 
one's  self;  and  it  is  in  this  sense  that  Vincent  Voiture,  that 
distinguished  literary  favorite  of  the  salons  of  Paris,  alludes  to 
the  precept  in  a  letter  to  Balzac.18  The  letter  is  written  in 
answer  to  one  from  Balzac  in  which  Balzac  has  expressed  his 
affection  for  Voiture  in  warm  phrases,  and  Voiture  replies  that 
he  thinks  too  highly  of  Balzac  to  admit  that  he  can  care  so 
much  for  an  inferior  person.  Then  he  adds,  "This  precept  'de 


go 


THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 


se  connoistre  soy-mesme'  which  is  for  all  others  a  lesson  of 
humility,  ought  to  have  quite  the  contrary  effect  where  you 
are  concerned,  and  oblige  you  to  think  lightly  of  all  that  is 
outside  yourself."  It  is  probably  somewhat  in  this  sense  of  the 

Nofce  te  lpfum, 


Fig.  ii 

duty  of  recognizing  one's  high  capacity  and  responsibility  that 
Milton  speaks  of  self-knowledge  in  his  Paradise  Lost,  although 
he  does  not  refer  to  the  maxim.  In  the  tenth  book,  when  Adam 
has  accused  Eve  of  tempting  him,  the  Almighty  asks:19 

Was  she  thy  God,  that  her  thou  didst  obey 
Before  his  voice?  Or  was  she  made  thy  guide, 
Superior,  or  but  equal,  that  to  her 
Thou  didst  resign  thy  manhood,  and  the  place 


TNfiei  SEATTON  IN  RENAISSANCE  91 

Wherein  God  set  thee  above  her,  made  of  thee, 
And  for  thee,  whose  perfection  far  excell'd 
Hers  in  all  real  dignity?  Adorn'd 
She  was  indeed,  and  lovely,  to  attract 
Thy  love,  not  thy  subjection;  and  her  gifts 
Were  such  as  under  Government  well  seem'd 
Unseemly  to  bear  rule,  which  was  thy  part 
And  person,  hadst  thou  known  thyself  aright.20 

That  the  maxim  was  used  rather  commonly  in  the  sense  of 
"Know  thy  high  worth,"  and  could  be  carried  too  far  is  indi- 
cated by  Hobbes  in  the  Introduction  to  his  Leviathan,  where 
he  says  that  "Nosce  teipsum  ....  was  not  meant,  as  it  is  now 
used,  to  countenance  either  the  barbarous  state  of  men  in  power 
towards  their  inferiors;  or  to  encourage  men  of  low  degree  to 
a  saucie  behaviour  towards  their  betters."  A  further  indication 
of  the  current  use  of  the  maxim  in  this  sense  is  found  in 
Speroni's  Discorso  Sopra  le  Sentenze  Ne  Quid  Nimis  e  Nosce 
Te  Ipsum.  While  his  opposition  to  the  precept,  which  we 
mentioned  in  an  earlier  chapter,  is  really  only  partial,  he  is 
strongly  opposed  to  what  he  seems  to  consider  its  usual  con- 
notations. He  claims  that  if  it  is  taken  to  imply  that  men  are 
equal — that  the  powerful  should  humble  himself  and  the  lowly 
exalt  himself — it  will  work  disastrously  upon  society;  and  he 
argues  at  some  length  for  the  superiority  of  a  monarchy  to  a 
republic21 — a  line  of  reasoning  which  was  natural  for  Speroni, 
Venetian  nobleman  and  friend  of  Pope  Pius  IV  as  he  was,  dur- 
ing this  period  when  the  spirit  of  democracy  was  stirring  in  the 
North. 

What  Speroni  really  does  approve  is  taking  the  maxim  in 
the  sense  of  knowing  one's  place,  for  he  thinks22  "it  teaches  us 
to  live  and  work  in  as  much  agreement  with  what  is  fitting  as 
possible;  since  by  a  man's  knowing  himself,  he  will  work  at  that 


92  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

which  accords  with  his  condition  and  not  pass  beyond."23 
Thomas  Elyot,  likewise,  says  in  The  Governour24  that  while  the 
person  of  inferior  rank  ought  to  consider  that  he  is  equal  to  his 
superiors  in  the  substance  of  his  soul  and  body,  men  are  not 
endowed  with  equal  powers  and  rulers  are  needed. 

The  specific  application  of  the  apothegm  in  the  sense  of 
knowing  one's  special  bent  occurs  in  Roger  Ascham's  Tox- 
ophilus.25  He  points  out  the  fact  that  if  a  man  has  two  sons, 
one  of  whom  is  frail,  he  fits  the  frail  one  for  the  ministry,  and 
so  this  perverse  judgment  results  in  many  unfit  ministers.  This 
could  be  remedied,  he  thinks,  "if  fathers  would  bestow  their 
children  always  on  that  thing  whereunto  Nature  hath  ordained 
them  most  apte  and  fit,"  and  he  pleads: 

Whan  this  is  done,  then  muste  every  man  beginne  to  be  more  ready 
to  amende  hym  selfe  than  to  checke  another,  measurying  their  matters 
with  that  wise  proverbe  of  Apollo,  Knowe  thy  selfe:  that  is  to  saye,  learne 
to  knowe  what  thou  art  able,  fitte,  and  apte  unto,  and  folowe  that. 

Montaigne  says: 

This  great  precept  is  often  quoted  in  Plato,  aDo  thine  own  work  and 
know  thyself."  Each  of  the  two  generally  includes  our  whole  duty,  and 
likewise  includes  its  companion.  He  who  will  do  his  own  work  will  find 
that  his  first  lesson  is  to  know  what  he  is  and  what  is  suited  to  him:  and 
he  who  knows  (himself)  will  never  mistake  another's  work  for  his  own.26 

And  again,  Bacon  says  regarding  self-knowledge  that  men 
ought  to  consider  how  their  natures  fit  in  with  the  professions 
and  kinds  of  life  which  are  in  use  and  valued,  and  of  which  they 
have  to  make  a  choice.27 

There  is  a  modern  application  of  yv&di  aeavrbv  in  the  sense 
of  "Know  the  limits  of  your  wisdom"  in  Guillaume  Bude's 
treatise  De  Transitu  Hellenismi  ad  Christianismum2&  He  de- 
clares that  in  attempting  discussions  of  free-will,  predestina- 
tion, and  the  like,  the  human  intellect  ought  to  recall  the 
Pythian  yvoodi  aeavTov,  and  asks  what  mortal  judgment  has  to 


TNaei  SEAT  TON  IN  RENAISSANCE  93 

do  with  matters  which  God  wishes  to  remain  unknown  to  us; 
and  he  reiterates  the  thought,  again  quoting  the  maxim,  in 
saying  that  this  is  what  St.  Paul  advised  in  the  Epistle  to  the 
Romans  when  he  forbade  us  to  inquire  into  the  justice  and 
providence  of  God  and  to  discuss  the  laws  of  selecting  and 
rejecting  souls.29 

We  rarely  find  the  maxim  in  modern  literature  with  the  old 
connotation  of  "Know  you  are  human  and  mortal,"30  for  under 
the  influence  of  Christianity  the  ancient  fear  of  offending  the 
gods  by  thinking  "thoughts  too  high  for  mortals"  gave  place 
to  the  fear  of  eternal  punishment  if  one  died  unrepentant ;  while 
"Know  thyself"  in  this  connection  came  to  mean,  as  we  have 
shown,  "Know  that  you  are  a  sinner  and  repent."  Occasionally 
a  writer  exhorts  the  overweening  or  the  overambitious  to  re- 
member that  they  are  but  human,  but  the  words  have  more  of 
a  modern  import  and  had  better  be  regarded  as  merely  a  strong 
expression  for  knowing  one's  measure.  It  is  in  this  sense  that 
the  words  of  Thomas  Elyot,  "Know  thyself,  that  is  to  say, 
know  that  thou  art  verily  a  man.  .  .  .  ,"  have  been  taken 
above;  and  this  is  what  Nicole  means  when  he  says: 

When  one  sees  these  ambitious  people  who  pile  enterprise  on  enter- 
prise ....  who  never  think  of  the  death  which  threatens  them  every 
moment  ....  who  does  not  feel  disposed  to  recall  them  to  the  knowledge 
of  their  frail  and  mortal  condition  and  make  them  remember  that 
they  are  human?31 

Yet  there  is  a  little  more  of  the  ancient  flavor,  perhaps,  in  the 
words  of  the  Chorus  at  the  end  of  Act  II  of  Montchrestien's 
Aman.  The  soul  which  has  come  to  fancy  that  great  honor  is 
due  it  demands  something  which  cannot  be  granted,  they  claim, 
and  ask: 

Is  it  not  an  extreme  error  to  dare  presume  upon  the  honor  which  the 
great  God  commands  to  be  given  to  Him  alone?  The  man  who  knows 


94  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

himself  well  will  not  esteem  himself  so  highly.  One  never  sees  the  crea- 
ture take  the  place  of  the  Creator  without  this  madness  encountering  a 
sad  mischance. 

Discussions  of  self-knowledge  in  the  sense  of  knowing  one's 
faults  occur  rather  generally  in  the  ecclesiastical  literature  of 
these  centuries,  and  we  occasionally  find  this  meaning  given 
to  both  the  maxim  and  the  theme  in  the  works  of  more  secular 
writers  as  well.  That  the  natural  man  is  not  aware  of  his  own 
faults  is  beautifully  expressed  in  an  "Ode"  by  John  Donne: 

Vengeance  will  sit  above  our  faults:  but  till 
She  there  do  sit, 

We  see  her  not,  nor  them.  Thus  blind,  yet  still 
We  lead  her  way;  and  thus,  whilst  we  do  ill, 
We  suffer  it. 

Yet  we,  that  should  this  ill  we  now  begin 

As  soon  repent, 

(Strange  thing!)  perceive  not;  our  faults  are  not  seen, 

But  past  us;  neither  felt,  but  only  in 

The  punishment. 

But  we  know  ourselves  least;  mere  outward  shows 
Our  minds  so  store, 

That  our  souls,  no  more  than  our  eyes,  disclose 
But  form  and  color.  Only  he  who  knows 
Himself,  knows  more. 

But,  however  unwitting,  man  has  an  aversion  to  seeing  his 
faults  and  tries  to  escape  from  the  unhappiness  involved  in  a 
knowledge  of  them.  So  Davies  says  that  as  Io  shrank  from 
seeing  herself  in  the  water  in  the  form  of  a  cow,  the  soul 

impatient  her  own  faults  to  see, 
Turns  from  herselfe  and  in  strange  things  delites.32 

Pascal  maintains  in  one  of  his  fragments  on  the  "Misery  of 
Man"33  that  man  is  ever  seeking  diversion  because  he  cannot 


rNfiGI  SEATTON  IN  RENAISSANCE  95 

bear  the  unhappiness  consequent  upon  being  left  alone  with  his 
own  thoughts.  Nicole  refers  to  this  passage  of  Pascal's  in  his  Be 
la  Connaissance  de  Soi-Meme,34  and  says  further  that  man's  in- 
clination to  escape  from  seeing  himself,  and  yet  to  see  himself  in 
a  favorable  light,  makes  him  cover  his  faults  and  blot  them  out 
of  the  image  which  he  has  formed  of  himself.  Yet  we  are  fully 
alive  to  the  faults  of  others  and  prone  to  criticize  especially 
those  faults  of  which  we  are  most  guilty  ourselves.35  We  are 
even  so  shocked  at  other  people's  blindness  that  we  want  to 
say  to  them  Nosce  te  ipsum.36 

Jacob  Balde  did  address  a  poem  entitled  "Nosce  Te  Ipsum" 
to  a  certain  Leontius  Crinallus,  the  purport  of  which  is  an  in- 
junction to  pause  in  his  interest  in  the  world's  affairs  and  in  ju- 
dicial cases,  and  look  into  himself  with  piercing  eyes,  for  "there 
is  nothing  worse  than  a  man  who  can  bear  to  be  evil  himself 
but  cannot  bear  to  have  others  so."  An  epigram  by  Christian 
Wernicke,  critic  and  satirist,  likewise  entitled  "Nosce  te 
ipsum,"37  applies  the  maxim  to  himself,  and  assures  the  reader 
that  he  does  not  hold  himself  for  an  angel  while  he  censures 
many  crimes  with  daring  pen.  In  similar  vein  with  B aide's 
poem,  though  in  far  briefer  compass,  is  the  little  epigram  en- 
titled "Selbsterkenntniss"  by  Friederich  von  Logau:38 

Willst  du  fremde  Fehler  zahlen,  heb'  an  deinen  an  zu  zahlen, 
1st  mir  recht,  dir  wird  die  Welle  zu  den  fremden  Fehlern  fehlen.* 

Von  Logau  also  wrote  a  short  poem  entitled  "Kenne  Dich,"39 
which  echoes  Aesop's  oft-quoted  fable  of  the  two  sacks: 

Kannst  du  dem,  der  fur  sich  geht,  seine  Mangel  bald  erblicken, 
Wird  dir  deine  sehen  auch,  wer  dir  nach  sieht  auf  den  Rucken.f 

*Wouldst  thou  others'  failings  reckon,  start  to  reckon  up  thine  own: 
If  I'm  right  thou'lt  fail  the  while  to  see  the  failings  of  another. 
fCanst  thou  now  see  the  faults  of  him  who  goeth  before  thee, 
He  will  thine  also  see  who,  next  thee,  seeth  thy  back. 


96  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

The  similarity  of  this  fable  of  the  two  sacks  to  the  New  Testa- 
ment figure  of  the  beam  and  the  mote  is  obvious,  but  it  ap- 
parently remained  for  Rabelais  to  connect  the  beam  and  the 
mote  with  yv&Bi  aeavrov.  In  a  chapter  of  his  Pantagruel,40 
Panurge  goes  to  see  Her  Trippa,  a  necromancer  of  repute;  and 
on  the  way  his  friend  Epistemon  tells  him  of  how  one  day  while 
Her  Trippa  was  talking  sublimely  to  the  great  king,  the  lackeys 
of  the  court  were  sporting  with  his  wife,  whom  he  esteemed 
highly.41  When  Panurge  consults  Her  Trippa,  he  learns  no  good 
of  himself;  and  in  his  anger  he  calls  Her  Trippa  names  and  says 
of  him,  "He  has  not  known  the  first  precept  of  philosophy, 
which  is  'Cognoy-toy.'  And  while  he  boasts  that  he  sees  a  mote 
in  the  eye  of  another,  he  does  not  see  a  great  beam  which  puts 
out  both  his  eyes." 

-  The  use  of  the  maxim  as  enjoining  a  knowledge  of  the  soul 
in  the  ancient  philosophical  and  metaphysical  sense  is  some- 
what rare  in  the  literature  of  the  sixteenth  and  seventeenth 
centuries.42  There  are  a  number  of  passages,  however,  in  which 
knowing  one's  self  is  interpreted  as  knowing  our  dual  nature — 
that  we  are  composed  of  body  and  soul — and  in  which  obedi- 
ence to  the  maxim  involves  the  fullest  knowledge  of  both.  Sir 
Thomas  Elyot  says  in  his  discussion  of  the  maxim,  "For  man 
knowing  himself  shall  know  that  which  is  his  own  and  pertain- 
eth  to  himself.  But  what  is  more  his  own  than  his  soul?  Or 
what  thing  more  appertaineth  to  him  than  his  body?"43  A 
little  epigram  by  John  Owen,  entitled  "Nosce  te  Ipsum," 
reads  :44 

Ethica  jungatur  Physicae,  te  noscere  si  vis, 
Haec  docet  anatomen  corporis,  ilia  animae.* 

*Let  Ethics  be  joined  to  Physics,  if  thou  dost  wish  to  know  thyself; 
The  one  teaches  the  anatomy  of  the  body,  the  other  that  of  the  soul. 


TN129I  2EATT0N  IN  RENAISSANCE  97 

And  John  Davies  writes  in  his  No  see  Teipsum:AS 

I  know  my  bodie's  of  so  frail  a  kind 

As  force  without,  feavers  within  can  kill; 

I  know  the  heavenly  nature  of  my  mind, 


And  to  conclude,  I  know  myself  a  MAN 
Which  is  a  proud  and  yet  a  wretched  thing. 

Likewise,  Baxter  in  his  Mischiefs  of  Self -Ignorance  says,46 
"There  is  a  physical  self-knowledge:  when  a  man  knows  .... 
what  his  soul  is,  and  what  his  body  is,  and  what  the  compound 
called  man."  There  is  no  suggestion  of  the  maxim  in  Bossuet's 
Be  la  Connaissance  de  Dieu  et  de  Soi-Meme,  nor  in  the  long 
introspective,  and  often  obscure,  poem  by  Gregorio  Silvestre 
entitled  Conoscimiento  de  si  Mismo.  Bossuet,  however,  begins 
his  work  by  declaring  that  wisdom  consists  in  knowing  God 
and  knowing  ourselves,  and  goes  on  to  say  that  we  are  com- 
posed of  two  parts — soul  and  body — and  the  three  things  to 
consider  are  first  the  soul,  then  the  body,  and  then  the  union 
between  the  two47 — topics  which  he  discusses  in  his  first  three 
chapters,  respectively.  In  Gregorio  Silvestre's  poem  also  man's 
dual  nature  is  emphasized,  and  the  constant  and  inevitable 
warfare  between  his  carnal  and  his  spiritual  self  forms  the  main 
theme. 

The  discussion  of  man's  physical  anatomy  and  functions 
which  we  find  in  the  philosophical  works  of  Bacon  and  Descartes 
— themes  which  are  ipso  facto  considered  an  essential  part  of 
his  self-knowledge — is  an  indication  of  a  renewed  sense  of  the 
dignity  of  our  physical  selves,  which  is  in  strong  contrast  to 
the  utter  contempt  for  the  body  in  medieval  mystical  litera- 
ture. The  connection  of  the  theme  with  the  maxim  is  shown  in 
Bacon's  De  Augnientis.4*  "Let  us  come  now  to  the  knowledge 
to  which  the  ancient  oracle  leads  us,"  he  says,  "of  course  to 


98  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

the  knowledge  of  ourselves But  before  we  follow  par- 
ticular divisions,  let  us  constitute  a  general  science  of  nature 

and  the  state  of  man This,  however,  is  deduced  from 

those  things  which  are  as  common  to  the  body  as  to  the  soul." 
The  physiological  treatise  of  Dona  Oliva  Sabuco  de  Nantes 
Barrera,  which  introduced  a  new  system  of  physiological 
thought,  based  on  the  theory  that  our  bodies  are  nourished  not 
by  the  blood  but  by  nerve  force  derived  from  the  brain,  and  are 
thereby  impaired  by  vice  and  affected  by  sensation  and  pas- 
sion, is,  as  we  have  seen,  entitled  Coloquio  del  Conocimiento  de 
si  Mismo,  and  the  maxim  is  quoted  as  a  text.49  And  Sir  Thomas 
Browne,  physician  that  he  was,  insists  that  self-knowledge  is 
the  greatest  knowledge  in  man,  and  adds,  "For  this  do  I  honour 
my  own  profession:  ....  had  He  <God>  read  such  a  lecture  in 
Paradise  as  he  (the  Devil)  did  at  Delphi,  we  had  better  known 
ourselves."50  The  effect  of  this  renewed  interest  in  the  physical 
side  of  man's  nature,  and  the  difficulty  of  attaining  to  such 
self-knowledge,  is  reflected  in  John  Donne's  Anatomy  of  the 
World: 

Thou  art  too  narrow,  Wretch,  to  comprehend 
Even  thy  selfe:  yea,  though  thou  wouldst  but  bend 
To  know  thy  body 

Know'st  thou  but  how  the  stone  doth  enter  in 
The  bladder's  cave  and  never  break  the  skinne? 
Know'st  thou  how  the  blood,  which  to  the  heart  doth  flow, 
Doth  from  one  ventricle  to  the  other  go? 

What  hope  have  we  to  know  ourselves,  when  we 
Know  not  the  least  things  which  for  our  use  be?51 

There  is  an  interesting  instance  of  the  application  of  the 
maxim  to  an  exalted  conception  of  the  body  in  Baltasar 
Gracian's  El  Criticon.  In  the  ninth  "Crisis"  of  Part  I,  which 


rNftGI  SEAT  TON  IN  RENAISSANCE  99 

is  entitled  "The  Moral  Anatomy  of  Man/'  Andrenio,  but  re- 
cently emerged  from  his  cave,  tells  of  how  he  saw  himself  in  a 
crystal  fountain  and  of  how  delighted  he  was  with  his  appear- 
ance. He  then  proceeds,  with  the  help  of  his  interlocutors,  to 
attach  a  moral  significance  to  the  various  parts  and  character- 
istics of  his  physical  self:  his  head  is  the  fortress  of  the  soul; 
his  eyes  its  windows;  etc.  The  connection  with  the  maxim  is 
made  by  Gracian  in  the  introductory  paragraphs  of  this  chap- 
ter, in  which  he  says  that  the  ancients  had  conocete  a  ti  mismo 
engraved  on  the  temple  walls  at  Delphi  in  letters  of  gold,  and 
the  wise  philosophers  had  it  imprinted  on  their  hearts  in  still 
larger  characters;  but  man's  free  will  makes  it  possible  for  him 
to  miss  the  mark,  and  through  ignorance  of  himself  he  often 
becomes  a  captive  to  vice.  Andrenio,  however,  seems  to  be 
exempted  from  such  a  course  of  folly. 

The  maxim  is  applied  to  a  knowledge  of  one's  soul  in  the 
TvcoOl  Heavrbv  Sive  Ethica  of  Geulincx.52  He  tells  us  in  his 
Preface53  that  the  Gentiles  had  the  divine  Ipse  te  nosce,  and 
that  if  they  had  used  that  thread  aright,  they  would  have  ex- 
plored the  intricate  labyrinth.  Farther  on,54  in  speaking  of 
humility,  which  he  considers  the  chief  cardinal  virtue,  he 
divides  it  into  two  parts — Inspectio  sui  and  Despectio  sui.  Ipse 
te  nosce  applies  to  the  Inspectio,  which  consists  of  a  diligent 
search  into  one's  nature,  condition,  and  origin.  This  search 
reveals  man  as  a  mere  spectator  of  the  world,  having  no  power 
in  himself  of  creation  or  of  movement,  but  wholly  dependent 
upon  God  for  his  very  existence  and  his  ability  to  make  use  of 
natural  laws  to  meet  his  ends.55 

Knowing  one's  self  in  the  sense  of  knowing  one's  soul  is,  of 
course,  the  dominant  force  of  the  phrase  in  religious  literature, 
where  the  process  of  arriving  at  self-knowledge  is  well  defined 
and  largely  stereotyped.  The  Reformation  brought  freedom 


ioo  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

from  many  of  the  flagrant  abuses  of  the  church,  but  it  had 
little  effect  upon  its  main  doctrines.  The  Protestant  could  not 
procure  his  escape  from  hell  by  the  purchase  of  indigencies, 
but  he  must  follow  the  plan  of  salvation  outlined  in  the  first 
century  of  the  Christian  era  and  persisting  down  the  years. 
Catholic  and  Protestant,  Lutheran  and  Calvinist,  Puritan  and 
Mystic — all  taught  that  to  know  God  man  must  know  himself, 
and  that  he  could  know  himself  only  as  he  realized  that  his 
soul  had  been  made  in  the  image  of  God,  that  he  had  fallen 
from  grace,  and  that  he  must  therefore  humble  his  heart  in  sor- 
row for  his  manifold  sins  in  order  to  be  restored  to  favor  with 
God.  This  done,  his  immortality  was  assured.  If  he  failed  to 
arrive  at  such  self-knowledge  in  this  life,  he  would  have  to  see 
his  soul  in  its  misery  at  the  Last  Judgment.  So  general  was  it  to 
speak  of  self-knowledge  in  this  sense  that  knowing  one's  self 
came  to  be  synonymous  with  our  term  "conversion,"  and 
treatises  on  self-knowledge  came  to  embrace  practically  the 
wholy  body  of  Christian  doctrine  in  so  far  as  it  concerns  the 
individual  soul.  To  quote  all  of  the  passages  which  illustrate 
this  teaching  of  the  church  would  be  tedious,  although  several 
of  them  are  connected  with  yv&Oi  aeavrbv,  as,  for  instance,  the 
following  extract  from  Calvin's  Institution  de  la  Religion 
Chrestienne:56 

There  is  much  reason  in  the  old  adage  which  so  strongly  recommends 
to  man  the  knowledge  of  himself The  knowledge  of  ourselves  con- 
sists first,  in  considering  what  was  bestowed  on  us  at  our  creation,  and  the 
favors  we  continually  receive  from  the  divine  benignity,  that  we  may 
know  how  great  the  excellence  of  our  nature  would  have  been,  if  it  had 
retained  its  integrity Secondly,  we  should  contemplate  our  miser- 
able condition  since  the  fall  of  Adam,  the  sense  of  which  tends  ....  to 

fill  us  with  real  humility Hence  ....  we  are  inflamed  with  fresh 

ardor  to  seek  after  God,  to  recover  in  Him  those  excellencies  of  which  we 
find  ourselves  utterly  destitute. 


TN120I  SEATTON  IN  RENAISSANCE  101 

The  Introduction  to  the  first  book  of  Charron's  De  La  Sagesse, 
which  deals  with  man's  physical  and  moral  qualities,  empha- 
sizes the  doctrine  that  to  know  God  it  is  essential  that  man 
study  to  know  himself: 

By  the  knowledge  of  self  man  mounts  and  arrives  earlier  and  better 
at  the  knowledge  of  God57  ....  whereof  there  was  engraven  in  char- 
acters of  gold  upon  the  front  of  the  temple  of  Apollo  ....  this  phrase 
"cognoy-toy"  as  a  greeting  and  a  notice  from  God  to  all,  signifying  to 
them  that  to  have  access  to  the  divinity  and  to  enter  his  temple,  it  is  neces- 
sary to  know  themselves. 

As  regards  the  doctrine  of  immortality,  the  maxim  is  conspicu- 
ously connected  with  it  in  Davies'  Nosce  Teipsum,  the  second 
part  of  which  bears  the  subtitle  "Of  the  Soule  of  Man  and  the 
Immortalitie  Thereof"- — a  work  in  which  the  philosophical 
basis  for  a  belief  in  immortality  is  discussed  at  length  in  an 
admirable  manner.58  But  the  most  succinctly  satisfactory  ex- 
positions of  the  theme  of  self-knowledge  as  it  functions  in  this 
life  and  the  next  are  to  be  found  in  Nicole's  De  la  Connaissance 
de  Soi-Meme59  and  in  Baxter's  The  Mischiefs  of  Self -Ignorance 
and  the  Benefits  of  Self- Acquaintance. 6o  The  maxim  is  alluded 
to  in  both  treatises,  and  repeatedly  in  Nicole's,  although  it  is 
not  used  in  either  work  as  a  text  for  the  entire  discussion. 

Mysticism,  more  or  less  of  the  medieval  type,  continued  to 
flourish  during  these  centuries,  particularly  in  Spain,  where 
some  three  hundred  mystics  lived  and  wrote,61  of  whom  Santa 
Teresa,  Fray  Luis  de  Granada,  and  Fray  Luis  de  Leon  are 
probably  the  best  known.  Among  its  adherents  in  other  coun- 
tries, the  names  of  Jacob  Boehme62  and  Angelius  Silesius63 
(Johann  Scheffler)  stand  out  conspicuously.  Like  their  prede- 
cessors, they  regarded  self-knowledge  as  an  indispensable  pre- 
liminary to  contemplation,64  and  they  sometimes  used  figures  to 
make  their  thought  more  vivid  and  real.  Juan  d'Avila  writes  in 


io2  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

one  of  his  spiritual  letters65  that  " there  were  two  parts  to  the 
temple  of  Solomon  and  both  were  holy,  but  one  was  holier  than 
the  other  and  the  less  holy  was  the  way  thereto.  The  first  is  the 
knowledge  of  self  ....  the  approach  to  the  Holy  of  Holies, 
which  is  the  knowledge  of  God."  Self-knowledge  appears  under 
a  figure  also  in  the  poem  by  Cosme  Gomez  de  Texada  entitled 
"El  Todo,"66  where  it  is  the  secret  gate  to  the  temple  of  philos- 
ophy, whose  four  columns  are  the  four  cardinal  virtues.  "The 
school  of  expert  philosophers  judged  it  a  very  difficult  thing 
to  enter,"  he  says,  "for  they  inscribed  on  high  an  aphorism 
(a  mockery  to  the  ignorant)  Conocete  a  ti  niisrno"61 

The  influence  of  mystical  conceptions  can  be  traced  in  some 
of  the  other  literature  of  the  period.  Torquato  Tasso  in  his 
dialogue  "II  Porzio,  o  Vero  de  le  Virtu"68  quotes  nosce  te  ipsum 
and  adds  that  some  philosopher  has  said  that  we  ought  to  leap 
from  the  knowledge  of  self  to  the  knowledge  of  God,  because 
our  souls  are,  as  it  were,  rays  of  that  intelligent  sun  which  he 
illumines  with  his  own  light.  There  is  a  suggestion  of  mystical 
doctrine,  too — of  the  soul  as  a  reflection  of  God — in  Davies' 
Nosce  Teipsum:69 

The  best  Soule  with  her  reflecting  thought 
Sees  not  herself  without  some  light  divine. 

And,  again,  near  the  end  of  the  poem,  there  is  a  hint  of  the 
hindrance  to  self-knowledge  imposed  by  the  flesh : 

And  thou,  my  Soule,  which  turn'st  thy  curious  eye 
To  view  the  beames  of  thine  own  form  divine; 
Know  that  thou  canst  know  nothing  perfectly, 
While  thou  art  clouded  with  this  flesh  of  mine. 

That  man  is  a  microcosm,  a  little  universe,  which  the  soul,  a 
spark  of  the  Divine,  rules  as  God  rules  the  big  universe,  or 


TNfiei  2EATT0N  IN  RENAISSANCE 


103 


macrocosm,  is  one  of  the  common  conceptions  which  the 
Mystics  borrowed  from  the  Stoics.  In  the  Coloquio  del  Conoci- 
miento  de  si  Mismo  of  Dona  Oliva  Sabuco  de  Nantes  Barrera 
the  interlocutors  reach  a  point  at  which  the  questioner  is  satis- 
fied with  the  discussion  of  man's  physical  self  as  governed  by 
his  sensations,  but  feels  that  more  is  meant  by  Nosce  te  ipsum. 


'■  - ' ; — ■■ 


No'fce  re    iplum. 
£  u  B  IB  u  a    u 


Fig.  12 


The  protagonist  replies  with  the  usual  statement  about  man 
being  a  microcosm,  by  way  of  introduction  to  what  he  has  to 
say  about  the  soul,  which  forms  its  contacts  with  the  outside 
world  through  the  senses.70  There  is  a  striking  picture  illustrat- 
ing the  idea  of  man  as  a  microcosm  in  an  emblem  by  Florentius 
Schoonoven  which  has  "Nosce  te  ipsum"  for  its  title  (Fig.  12), 
and  a  poem  which  counsels: 


104  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

Do  not,  O  man,  the  most  valued  part  of  the  Universe,  keep  thine 
illustrious  worth  in  a  servile  state.  In  thee  the  image  of  the  Heavens  and 
the  world  lies  wholly  revealed.  Hence  learn  to  know  thy  glory  and  thy 
dower.71 

To  the  modern  as  to  the  ancient  mind,  the  quest  for  self- 
knowledge  is  of  high  importance72 — the  beginning  of  virtue  and 
wisdom.73  That  it  is  difficult  of  attainment  is  a  commonplace 
of  discussions  of  the  subject,  whether  the  statement  be  a  mere 
echo  of  the  ancient  saying  or  an  expression  of  the  writer's 
profound  personal  conviction.74  The  quest  became  a  lifelong 
process  with  Montaigne,75  as  with  Socrates,  while  he,  along 
with  many  another,  realized  that  complete  self-knowledge  is 
impossible  for  man  but  is  rather  an  attribute  of  God  alone. 
"I  who  have  no  other  profession,"  he  writes,  "have  found  a 
depth  and  a  variety  so  infinite  that  my  apprenticeship  has  no 
other  fruit  than  to  make  me  realize  how  much  there  remains 
for  me  to  apprehend";76  and  again  he  says,  "It  is  (the  pre- 
rogative) of  God  alone  to  know  himself."77  That  self-knowl- 
edge is  the  beginning  of  wisdom  is  implicit  to  a  greater  or  less 
extent  in  the  works  of  certain  of  the  philosophers  of  the  seven- 
teenth century,  notably  in  those  of  Descartes,  although  they 
do  not  express  the  conviction  as  definitely  as  the  Stoics  of  old. 
And  that  self-knowledge  is  the  beginning  of  social,  as  well  as 
of  individual  virtue,78  while  not  a  new  thought,  is  given  a  new 
emphasis.  Sir  Thomas  Elyot  in  The  Governour79  speaks  of  the 
precepts  "Love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,"  and 
"Love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself,"  and  goes  on  to  say: 

Knowledge  '.  ...  in  a  more  brief  sentence  than  hath  yet  been  spoken 
declareth  by  what  means  the  said  precepts  of  reason  and  society  may  be 
well  understood  and  thereby  Justice  finally  executed.  The  words  be  these 
in  Latin,  Nosce  te  ipsum By  this  counsel  man  is  induced  to  under- 
stand the  other  two  precepts,  and  also  thereby  is  accomplished  not  only 


TN^ei  SEATTON  IN  RENAISSANCE  105 

the  second  part,  but  also  the  residue  of  Justice In  knowing  the  con- 
dition of  his  soul  and  body  he  knoweth  himself,  and  consequently  in  the 
same  thing  he  knoweth  every  other  man. 

Thomas  Hobbes  presents  a  similar  conception  of  the  relation 
of  self-knowledge  to  the  performance  of  civic  duty  in  the  Intro- 
duction to  his  Leviathan: 

There  is  a  saying  much  usurped  of  late,  that  wisdom  is  acquired  not 

by  reading  of  books  but  of  men But  there  is  another  saying  not  of 

late  understood,  by  which  they  might  learn  truly  to  read  one  another, 
if  they  would  take  the  pains;  and  that  is,  Nosce  te  ipsum,  Read  thyself, 
which  was  ....  meant  ....  to  teach  us,  that  for  the  similitude  of  the 
thoughts  and  passions  of  one  man  to  the  thoughts  and  passions  of  another, 
whosoever  looketh  into  himself  and  considereth  what  he  doth,  what  he 
does  think,  opine,  reason,  hope,  fear,  &c,  and  upon  what  grounds,  he  shall 
thereby  read  and  know  what  are  the  thoughts  and  passions  of  all  other 

men  upon  the  like  occasions He  that  is  to  govern  a  whole  nation 

must  read  in  himself  not  this  or  that  particular  man,  but  man-kind.80 

Not  only  must  the  ruler  know  himself  in  order  to  know  men81 
and  so  govern  with  justice,  but  the  self-knowledge  of  the  sub- 
ject should  include  a  sense  of  civic  responsibility.  So  Samuel 
Pufendorf,  the  eminent  jurist,  in  his  book  on  The  Laws  of 
Nature  and  of  Nations82  discusses  self-knowledge  from  a  point 
of  view  consistent  with  his  profession,  and  echoes  the  teaching 
of  the  Stoics  of  old  when  he  interprets  y*>co#i  aeavrov  to  mean 
that  man  should  realize  that  he  does  not  exist  for  himself  but 
that  he  is  a  part  of  human  society  and  should  obey  the  laws  of 
society. 

The  Renaissance  period  has  little  to  add  in  answer  to  the 
persistent  question,  "How  can  a  man  know  himself?"  It  will 
be  remembered  that  Galen  suggested  that  an  impartial  friend 
might  help  us  by  telling  us  our  faults.  This  is  one  of  the  meth- 
ods recommended  by  Nicole,  who  says83  that  we  ought  to  have 
a  faithful  and  understanding  friend  to  tell  us  what  is  said  of 


io6 


THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 


us  in  the  world,  and  suggests  further  that  a  confessor  might 
serve  the  purpose,  although  he  might  not  know  our  pet  frail- 
ties.84 Boccalini  humorously  suggests  a  device  for  securing  other 
people's  estimates  of  us  in  his  Advertisements  from  Parnassus ;8s 
for  among  the  wares  offered  for  sale,  at  a  very  high  price,  are 

__._  human  eyes,  which  are  de- 
r  j  signed  to  help  men  better 
than  anything  else  to  at- 
tain that  most  excellent 
virtue  Nosce  te  ipsum.  The 
figure  of  the  mirror,  which 
we  found  in  Seneca  and 
elsewhere,86  appears  fre- 
quently in  later  discussions 
of  self-knowledge.  It  was 
the  usual  device  for  pic- 
turing self-knowledge  in 
emblem  literature,  where 
we  meet  it  first  in  Andrea 
Alciati's  emblem  entitled 
"Dicta  Septem  Sapien- 
tum"87  (see  Fig  4,  p.  17). 
Most  of  the  illustrative  pic- 
tures represent  his  noscere 
se  by  a  mirror  alone,  but  in  one  edition  the  mirror  is  held  by  a 
woman's  hand.88  One  of  the  highly  esteemed  Quatrains  of 
Pibrac,89  a  pupil  of  Alciati,  was  probably  influenced  by  his  or 
some  similar  picture: 

Qui  a  de  soi  parfaite  cognoissance 
N 'ignore  rien  de  ce  qu'il  faut  savoir; 
Mais  le  moyen  assure  de  l'avoir, 
Est  se  mirer  dedans  la  sapience.* 


Fig.  13 


rNS2ei  SEAT  TON  IN  RENAISSANCE 


107 


In  one  of  the  later  emblems,  by  Achilles  Bocchius,90  Socrates 
is  pictured  handing  a  mirror  to  a  youth  (Fig.  13);  in  an- 
other, by  Kreihing,91  a  woman  is  adorning  herself  before  a 
looking-glass  (Fig.  14),  and  the  rather  long  poem,  entitled 
"Nosce  teipsum,"  is  to  the  effect  that  we  should  look  into  our 
hearts,  as  a  woman  looks  in  a  mirror,  to  see  that  we  are  clean 

Hofce  ttipfutHi 


Fig.  14 

and  well  adorned  within.92  In  another  emblem,  by  Engel- 
grave,93  entitled  "Ex  Fragili  te  nosse  potes,"  a  sad-faced  mother 
is  looking  into  a  mirror  hung  on  the  wall,  while  her  dead  child 
lies  in  its  cradle  beside  her,  its  little  face  likewise  reflected  in  a 
small  mirror  held  near  by  (Fig.  15).  Again  we  find  the  mirror 
among  the  symbols  of  wisdom  or  prudence.  Henricus  Oraeus 

*The  man  who  of  himself  hath  perfect  knowledge  gained 
Fails  to  know  nothing  which  he  needs  to  know, 
But  the  surest  means  by  which  it  is  attained 
Is  in  Wisdom's  mirror  his  own  heart  to  show. 


io8 


THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 


has  a  picture  of  an  altar  on  the  top  of  which  is  a  cock  standing 
on  an  hourglass,  while  an  arm  extends  on  either  side,  one 
hand  holding  a  mirror  and  the  other  a  serpent94  (Fig.  16). 
The  cock,  we  are  told,  represents  giving  heed  to  time;  the 
serpent  is  a  symbol  of  wisdom  because  he  is  so  regarded  in  the 


Fig   ik 


story  of  the  temptation  of  Eve;  and  the  mirror  typifies  knowl- 
edge of  self.  Cesare  Ripa  adds  other  symbols  to  his  picture  of 
"Prudence"95  (Fig.  17),  for  she  has  two  faces — one  turned 
toward  the  Past  and  the  other  toward  the  Future ;  she  wears  a 
helmet,  indicating  her  skill  in  defense,  wreathed  with  mulberry 
leaves,  symbolic  of  deliberate  good  judgment;  in  her  left  hand 
is  an  echeneis  twined  on  a  spear,  apropos  of  Pliny's  story  to  the 
effect  that  this  fish  has  the  power  to  delay  the  progress  of 


rNaei  seatton  in  renaissance 


109 


ships;96  at  her  feet  reclines  a  stag  with  very  long  horns,  the 
weight  of  which  retards  haste;  in  her  left  hand,  of  course,  is  the 
mirror  of  self-knowledge.97 

The  mirror  is  also  a  prominent  feature  of  the  highly  sym- 
bolic frontispiece  designed  for  the  second  edition  of  Charron's 
Book  of  Wisdom.9*  A  statue  of  Wisdom  stands  crowned  with 
laurel  and  olive,  tokens  of  victory 
and  peace;  the  space  around  her 
signifies  liberty;  four  old  women 
chained  to  the  pedestal  beneath 
her  feet  represent  Passion  and 
Opinion  on  the  right,  and  Super- 
stition and  Learning  on  the  left; 
the  mirror  which  reflects  her  face, 
we  are  told,  shows  wisdom  "em- 
ployed in  the  knowledge  and 
contemplation  of  herself."  For 
Charron,  wisdom  is  really  synon- 
ymous with  philosophy,  and  his 
book  is  concerned  with  a  discus- 
sion of  man's  physical  and  moral 
nature.  That  self-knowledge  is  aided  by  philosophy  is  but  a  tru- 
ism, of  course,  whatever  the  philosophic  system.  It  is  one  of 
the  chief  ends  of  Descartes'  method  of  "doubt,"  as  he  tells  us  in 
his  Recherche  de  la  Verite.  "From  this  universal  doubt  ....," 
he  says,  I  have  decided  to  derive  the  knowledge  of  yourself 
and  of  all  things  which  are  in  the  world."99 

Nicole  thinks  that  if  men  only  would,  they  might  see  their 
own  faults  by  observing  the  faults  of  other  people;100  and  other 
writers  would  have  us  see  ourselves  writ  large  in  society  as 
depicted  in  literature,  in  history,  and  in  the  state  of  the  times 
in  which  we  live.  Montaigne  says  in  his  essay  on  "Books,"101 


Fig.  16 


no  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

"If  I  study,  I  seek  only  the  knowledge  which  treats  of  the 
knowledge  of  myself ."  Sir  Thomas  Culpeper,  a  minor  author  of 
the  period,  tells  us  in  his  Essays  or  Moral  Discourses102  that  "in 
conversing  with  books  we  are  but  made  more  acquainted  with 
ourselves  by  the  assistance  of  others."  Touching  the  use  of  the 
drama,  Madame  Moliere  asks  impetuously  in  the  Impromptu 
of  Versailles,103  "Why  does  he  make  wicked  plays  that  all  Paris 
goes  to  see,  and  paint  people  so  well  therein  that  everyone 
recognizes  himself?"  The  use  of  history  to  teach  men  self- 
knowledge  is  discussed  in  Speroni's  Dialogo  della  Istoria104 
where  he  says : 

By  such  history  not  only  the  private  citizen  may  see  in  the  situation 
of  others,  as  in  a  mirror  of  fine  glass,  the  vanity  of  human  things,  on  which 
he  learns  not  to  found  his  hopes;  but  a  city  can  discern  itself  altogether 
from  head  to  foot,  before  and  behind  ....  applying  the  precept  nosce  te 
ipsum. 

And  again  applying  the  maxim  to  corporate  life,  he  says, 
farther  on : 

Truly  that  saying  nosce  te  ipsum  has  more  of  divine  power  as  it  is 
applied  to  the  public — that  is,  to  many  people  united  in  living  a  city  life — 
as  we  find  therein  a  more  perfect  humanity  than  in  this  man  or  that  taken 
alone  by  himself,  or  with  his  few  in  the  family. 

This  political  self-knowledge  is  also  the  burden  of  Bacon's  dis- 
cussion of  the  apothegm  in  the  following  passage:105 

The  oracle  "Nosce  teipsum"  is  not  merely  a  rule  of  universal  wisdom, 
but  it  has  a  special  place  in  politics.  For  St.  James  advises  men  excel- 
lently "he  who  beholds  his  face  in  a  mirror,  nevertheless  forgets  suddenly 
what  manner  of  man  he  was,"  so  that  there  is  need  of  looking  at  our- 
selves very  frequently.  And  this  holds  even  in  politics.  But  the  mirrors 
are  different,  of  course.  For  the  divine  mirror  in  which  we  ought  to  be- 
hold ourselves  is  the  Word  of  God;  but  the  political  mirror  is  none  other 
than  the  state  of  affairs  and  of  the  times  in  which  we  live.106 

Not  only  through  books  and  through  his  direct  observa- 
tions of  society  may  man  come  to  a  better  understanding  of 


rNOei  SEATTON  IN  RENAISSANCE 


in 


himself,  but  through  his  very  experience  of  life.  He  learns  to 
know  the  measure  of  his  capacity  by  attempting  to  do  things. 
"It  is  a  Proverb  that  magistratus  virum  connionstrat"  says 


IpJi^  .  n 


jl&,>.-     ~~'"    V  ..-^Wta-^at. 


-CT"«—*1' 


Fig.  17 


Hugh  Latimer  in  one  of  his  sermons  before  Edward  VI  ;107 
"Office  and  authoritye  sheweth  what  a  man  is.  A  man  knoweth 
not  hym  selfe  tyl  he  be  tried."  But  the  experience  which 
reveals  him  to  himself  especially  is  adversity.  This  is  no  new 
thought,  for  the  ancients  recognized  the  value  of  affliction/08 


ii2  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

and  the  Christian  church  came  to  regard  it  as  an  aid  in  bringing 
man  to  a  humble  realization  of  his  sinful  condition.  We  meet 
the  theme  again  in  a  fable  by  Gabriel  Faerno  of  Cremona,  en- 
titled "Mulus."109  In  this  fable,  which  is  borrowed  from  Aesop 
and  illustrated  by  a  picture  of  a  prancing  mule,  we  are  told  that 
a  well-fed  mule  once  had  the  proud  thought  that  he  was  hand- 
some and  a  very  swift  runner,  sprung  from  a  sire  who  wore  a 
golden  bridle ;  but  presently  when  he  was  forced  to  run,  he  had 
to  stop  after  a  short  space,  and  he  remembered  straightway 
that  his  father  was  an  ass.  Faerno's  explicatio  reads,  "Favor- 
able fortune  make  us  ignorant  of  ourselves :  adverse  fortune  re- 
veals us  to  ourselves."110  The  story  of  the  origin  of  John  Davies' 
No  see  Teipsum  is  well  known.111  A  quarrel  with  one  of  his  fel- 
lows in  the  Middle  Temple,  in  the  course  of  which  Davies  gave 
the  man  a  thorough  beating,  resulted  in  his  expulsion  from  the 
Temple.  He  retired  to  Oxford,  where  he  seems  to  have  repent- 
ed; and  the  outgrowth  of  the  experience  was  the  above  men- 
tioned poem.  So  it  is  out  of  his  own  heart  that  he  writes : 

Yet  if  Affliction  once  her  wanes  begin, 


The  mind  contracts  herself  and  shrinketh  in, 

And  to  herself  she  gladly  doth  retire. 

....  Affliction's  lookes 

Teach  us  to  know  ourselves  beyond  all  books.112 

A  rather  more  beautiful  expression  of  the  power  of  adversity  to 
bring  us  to  self-knowledge  is  found  in  the  following  little  poem 
by  Christian  Wernicke:113 

Es  1st  Uns  Gut,  Herr,  Dass  Du  Uns  Zuchtigst 
Wie  Mancher  diinket  sich  in  Gliick  ein  Held  zu  sein 
Der  in  der  Noth  verzagt!  Das  Ungliick  ist's  allein, 
Dass  in  das  Innerste  des  falschen  Herzens  dringet 
Und  den  verfiihrten  Tropf  zur  Selbsterkenntniss  bringet. 


TNftei  2EATT0N  IN  RENAISSANCE  113 

Ein  Glas  zeigt  wenn  es  ist  durchsichtig  nur  das  Licht; 
Doch  wenn's  verfinstert  ist,  so  zeigt's  dir  dein  Gesicht.* 

In  the  religious  writings  of  these  centuries,  as  of  those 
which  had  preceded,  the  beginning  of  self-knowledge  is 
achieved  by  prolonged  self-examination114  and  reflection;  and 
it  is  aided  by  the  study  of  the  Bible,"5  by  the  preaching  of  the 
Word,116  and  by  the  illuminating  power  of  the  Spirit  of  God.117 
A  further  aid,  which  was  also  recommended  by  the  medieval 
Mystics,  is  associating  with  and  conversing  with  saints.  In 
Bunyan's  Pilgrim's  Progress*1*  when  Hopeful  asks  Christian 
what  it  was  that  brought  his  sins  to  mind  again,  Christian 
replies,  "Many  things:  as,  if  I  did  but  meet  a  good  man  in  the 
streets";  and  Baxter  says,  "It  will  be  a  great  help  to  the 
knowledge  of  yourselves,  if  you  will  converse  with  those  that 
bear  the  image  of  their  Creator."119  Hugh  Latimer,  in  his  fifth 
sermon  on  the  Lord's  Prayer,  tells  the  story  of  St.  Anthony, 
who  fasted  in  the  wilderness  so  long  that  he  thought  no  one 
could  be  as  holy  as  himself.  He  asked  God  who  "should  be 
his  fellow"  in  heaven,  and  God  sent  him  to  a  poor  cobbler  in 
Alexandria  who  was  living  a  very  simple  life,  doing  his  duty 
humbly  and  faithfully.  By  associating  with  him,  St.  Anthony 
"came  to  know  himself  and  laid  aside  all  pride  and  pre- 
sumption." 

The  necessity  for  retirement  and  calm  in  order  to  enable  the 
soul  to  see  itself  is  illustrated  by  La  Fontaine  in  the  last  of 
his  Fables,  entitled  "Le  Juge  Arbitre,  FHospitalier  et  le  Soli- 

*  It  is  Good  for  us,  Lord,  that  Thou  Dost  Chastise  us 
How  many  a  man,  when  all  is  fair,  thinks  he  is  made  of  hero  stuff, 
Who  f ainteth  in  the  hour  when  trouble  draweth  nigh ! 
'Tis  trouble  alone  that  pierceth  to  the  false  heart's  innermost  reaches, 
And  bringeth  the  soul  of  the  misguided  wretch  to  self-knowledge. 
A  piece  of  transparent  glass  revealeth  only  the  light; 
But  darken  its  surface  beneath,  and  it  showeth  to  thee  thy  face. 


ii4  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

taire."120  A  judge  and  a  minister  to  the  sick  and  needy  had  each 
tried  to  serve  humanity  regardless  of  reward  and  had  become 
discouraged  because  of  the  attitude  of  those  whom  they  tried 
to  help.  So  they  took  a  walk  together  in  the  woods,  by  way  of 
respite,  and  there  they  met  a  hermit  to  whom  they  told  their 
troubles.  When  they  asked  his  advice,  he  turned  to  a  pool  of 
water  and  replied: 

To  know  oneself  is,  here  below, 

The  first  command  of  the  Supreme. 

Have  you  obeyed,  among  the  bustling  throngs? 

Such  knowledge  to  tranquillity  belongs : 

Elsewhere  to  seek  were  fallacy  extreme. 

Disturb  the  water — do  you  see  your  face? 

See  we  ourselves  within  a  troubled  breast? 

A  murky  cloud,  in  such  a  case, 

Though  once  it  were  a  crystal  vase ! 

But,  brothers,  let  it  simply  rest, 

And  each  shall  see  his  features  there  impressed; 

For  inward  thought  a  desert  home  is  best.121 

This  poem,  like  the  other  fables  of  La  Fontaine,  was  early 
illustrated.  In  the  picture  (Fig.  18)  the  three  men  are  seen 
bending  over  the  pool,  while  the  hermit  stirs  the  water.  It  is 
but  another  phase  of  the  mirror  figure,  really,  and  its  lesson  is 
obvious. 

Yet  reflection  and  self-examination  can  be  carried  too  far, 
and  some  of  the  writers  on  self-knowledge  in  this  period  frankly 
warn  their  readers  against  too  much  poring  over  self.  Speroni 
says,  in  his  treatise  on  the  two  maxims,  "It  is  bad  to  know  one's 
self  too  much,  just  as  every  'too  much'  is  bad";122  and  farther 
on  he  says  again,  in  effect,  that  excessive  self-examination  is 
acting  contrary  to  Ne  quid  nimis.  Nicole  and  Baxter  likewise 
caution  the  reader  against  overdoing  the  matter.  Nicole,  in 
fact,  dwells  upon  the  point  at  some  length,  declaring  that  we 
ought  not  to  desire  to  know  more  than  God  wishes,  and  that 


maei  seatton  in  renaissance 


115 


God  does  not  wish  us  to  know  ourselves  more  than  is  necessary 
to  make  us  humble  and  able  to  govern  ourselves.  In  his  judg- 


Fig.  18 


ment,  it  were  better  to  busy  our  minds  about  God's  mercies, 
for  we  need  the  contemplation  of  God  as  well  as  the  study  of 
self  to  keep  our  souls  in  equilibrium.123 


CHAPTER  VII 

MAXIM  AND  THEME  IN  EIGHTEENTH- 
CENTURY  LITERATURE 

The  century  between  the  death  of  Milton  in  1674  and  the 
rise  of  Romanticism  in  the  last  quarter  of  the  eighteenth  cen- 
tury was  for  certain  countries  a  period  of  formal  classicism 
carried  to  the  extreme.  The  literature  is  characterized  by  more 
frequent  quotations  from  ancient  authors,  by  numerous  and 
painstaking  translations,  and  by  patent  imitations  of  classical 
works.  Scrupulous  attention  to  style,  receiving  its  chief  im- 
pulse from  the  French  Academy,  led  to  conventionality  and 
finish  of  form;  while  the  enthronement  of  Reason,  a  natural 
concomitant  of  the  increasing  interest  in  philosophy,  particu- 
larly "natural  philosophy,"  did  its  part  to  check  spontaneity 
and  imagination.  Classicism  found  its  chief  stronghold  in 
France,  with  England  a  close  second;  but  it  had  only  a  feeble 
hold  upon  Italy,  and  in  Germany  it  was  at  once  weak  and 
short-lived.  Yet  the  eighteenth-century  literature  of  France, 
as  well  as  of  Italy  and  Germany,  rarely  contains  any  allusion 
to  yvuidi  aeavTov  or  direct  discussions  of  the  theme  of  self- 
knowledge;  and  even  in  English  literature,  where  we  find  more 
instances  of  both,  they  occupy  a  less  important  place  than  in 
the  literature  of  the  sixteenth  and  seventeenth  centuries,  and 
mark  no  advance  in  thought.  For  this  reason  our  interest  often 
centers  more  upon  the  author  and  the  occasion  for  his  introduc- 
tion of  the  maxim  or  the  theme  than  upon  what  he  says  about 
it,  and  the  material  lends  itself  to  an  arrangement  by  authors 
rather  than  to  a  topical  treatment. 

116 


TNfiei  2EATT0N  IN  EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY     117 

The  most  important  French  work  of  the  century  on  the 
theme  of  self-knowledge  is  the  little  book  on  JJArt  de  Se  Con- 
noitre  Soy-Meme  by  that  eminent  divine,  Jacques  Abbadie. 
His  only  allusion  to  the  maxim  occurs  in  the  first  sentence, 
where  he  refers  to  Juvenal's  famous  verse.  He  thinks  the  an- 
cients' understanding  of  the  subject  unsatisfactory  and  pro- 
poses to  study  man,  not  from  the  physical  or  metaphysical 
standpoint,  but  from  the  ethical,  as  aa  creature  capable  of 
virtue  and  happiness,  ....  who  finds  himself  in  a  state  of  cor- 
ruption and  misery."1  His  book  thus  becomes  virtually  a  treat- 
ise on  moral  philosophy  written  from  the  religious  point  of 
view.  It  is  in  two  parts — the  first  part  dealing  with  the  base- 
ness and  misery  of  man,  his  duties  as  related  to  the  Decalogue, 
his  motives,  and  his  sense  of  immortality;  the  second,  with 
"the  source  of  our  corruption,"  with  the  faults  of  self-love,  with 
the  characteristics  of  pleasure,  with  pride,  and  with  human 
vanity  and  ambition. 

Other  direct  references  to  self-knowledge  in  eighteenth-cen- 
tury French  literature  are  few  and  brief.  Jean  Baptiste  Rous- 
seau, in  one  of  his  Allegories,  characterizes  philosophers  as 
"those  vain  mortals  nurtured  on  illusion,  who  with  faith  in 
their  feeble  systems,  knowing  all  things  without  knowing  them- 
selves, seek  the  truth,  which  always  eludes  them."2  Voltaire, 
the  most  representative  figure  of  the  century  in  France,  never 
quotes  the  maxim;  but  he  uses  the  phraseology  of  self-knowl- 
edge in  one  of  his  Dialogues  d'Euhetnere.3  Euhemerus  is  prais- 
ing the  new  scientific  knowledge;  and  Callicrates,  who  is  con- 
cerned about  a  knowledge  of  the  soul,  asks,  "But  what  good 
will  it  do  to  know  that  one  planet  is  balanced  above  another, 
and  that  they  can  analyze  rays  of  light,  if  je  ne  me  connais  pas 
moi-meme?"  The  French  scientific  writer  Buffon  begins  his 
Histoire  Naturelle  de  UHonime*  by  saying  that  while  it  is  to 


n8  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

our  interest  to  know  ourselves,  he  doubts  if  we  do  not  know 
everything  else  better;  and  presently  he  uses  words  which 
have  become  almost  a  platitude:  "The  first  and  most  difficult 
thing  which  we  have  to  do  to  arrive  at  the  knowledge  of  our- 
selves is  to  recognize  distinctly  the  nature  of  the  two  substances 
of  which  we  are  composed."  He  then  discusses  briefly  the  facul- 
ties of  the  soul  and  its  relation  to  the  body  by  way  of  introduc- 
tion to  his  physiological  study  of  man  at  the  different  stages 
of  his  life. 

Among  Italian  writers,  we  find  the  maxim  quoted  in  an 
Inaugural  Oration5  by  the  philosopher  Vico,  author  of  the 
Scienza  Nuova.  He  thinks  that  the  fame  of  yv&di  aeavrov  would 
not  be  so  great  if,  as  is  commonly  thought,  it  had  been  devised 
for  checking  elation  of  spirit  and  crushing  pride,  but  that  it 
means,  rather,  to  know  one's  soul.  It  means  to  know  that  the 
soul  is  divine,  made  in  the  image  of  God,  and  that  it  is  in  the 
body  as  God  is  in  the  universe;  and  it  means  further  that 
the  soul  is  immortal,  for  if  the  body  dies,  the  soul  will  live, 
just  as  God  would  still  exist,  if  the  universe  should  be  de- 
stroyed. Another  Italian  philosopher,  Genovesi,  says,  in  a 
paragraph  of  his  La  Diceosina,  that  the  most  important  duty 
a  man  owes  to  himself  is  to  know  and  measure  himself,  for 
without  knowing  his  own  particular  qualities  he  cannot  know 
his  own  best  good,  and  that  the  maxim  Nosce  teipsum  ought  to 
be  regarded  as  the  foundation  of  all  morality,  since  it  is  the 
basis  of  our  relation  to  others  and  to  God.6  Then  there  is  a 
discussion  of  the  maxim  by  a  less  known  Italian,  Joseph 
Rinaldi,  "Doctor  of  Sacred  Theology  and  Director  of  Studies 
in  the  Seminary  at  Patavia."  At  the  request  of  his  friends,  he 
published  a  little  volume  of  addresses  in  1746 — addresses  which 
evidently  had  been  delivered  to  his  students  on  different  occa- 
sions. One  of  these  bears  the  title  "De  Cognitione  Sui"7  and 


TN120I  SEATTON  IN  EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY    119 

consists  of  the  application  of  yv&di  aeavrov,  which  he  quotes 
several  times,  to  the  end  and  aim  of  education.  He  takes  the 
maxim  to  mean  "Know  the  soul,"  and  declares  that  the  prac- 
tice of  it  would  silence  criticism  of  the  student's  career — that 
the  study  of  dialectic,  physics,  and  philosophy  leads  to  self- 
knowledge,  and  that  philosophers  and  preachers  are  of  help  in 
the  attaining  of  it.  In  self-knowledge,  he  observes,  lies  the  an- 
swer to  the  riddle  of  the  Sphinx,  who  represents  Letters.  In  an- 
other oration,  entitled  "De  Vero  Litterarum  Fine/'8  he  speaks 
of  the  virtuous,  wise,  and  modest  type  of  man,  who  seems  in 
all  his  studies  to  have  nothing  other  in  mind  than  Nosce 
teipsum. 

The  German  philosopher,  Christian  Wolf,  has  a  chapter  in 
his  Ethica  entitled  "De  Notitia  Sui."9  The  chapter  begins  with 
the  statement  that  virtue  consists  in  the  pursuit  of  self-knowl- 
edge, and  self-knowledge  is  taken  to  mean  a  knowledge  of 
both  our  natural  and  our  acquired  characteristics  and  of  what 
concerns  our  external  state.  It  means,  further,  a  knowledge  of 
our  powers  in  comparison  with  others,  of  our  duty  as  God's 
creatures,  of  how  we  may  serve  him,  and  of  how  far  we  have 
advanced  in  goodness.  Self-knowledge  is  difficult,  but  it  is 
necessary  for  a  happy  life.  It  is  aided  by  the  study  of  psy- 
chology, of  philosophy  both  natural  and  moral,  of  politics,  and 
of  other  arts;  and  a  knowledge  of  God  is  essential.  Hamann, 
called  "Magus  aus  dem  Norden,"  that  erratic  philosopher  with 
his  conspicuous  pietism  and  his  hostility  to  abstraction,  belongs 
in  part  to  the  next  period;  but  his  quotation  of  the  maxim 
occurs  in  one  of  his  early  works,  his  Sokratische  Denkwiirdig- 
keiten™  where  he  says  that  Socrates  was  declared  the  wisest 
man,  rather  than  Sophocles  or  Euripides,  because  he  went 
farther  in  self-knowledge  than  they  and  knew  that  he  knew 
nothing.  And  in  his  slightly  earlier  work,  Brocken,11  he  says  in 


i2o  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

effect  that  Christ  came  into  the  world  to  teach  us  self-knowl- 
edge and  self-love.  All  of  our  knowledge  has  self-knowledge  for 
its  object;  and  as  long  as  it  is  impossible  for  man  to  know  him- 
self, so  long  it  is  impossible  for  him  to  love  himself.  Self-knowl- 
edge is  impossible  without  soul-nurture,  for  the  soul  needs  the 
higher  Spirit  as  the  body  needs  the  air.  It  would  facilitate  self- 
knowledge,  moreover,  if  we  would  look  at  our  neighbor  and 
see  ourselves  reflected  in  him  as  in  a  mirror. 

The  German  poet  Wieland  quotes  the  maxim  near  the  close 
of  his  Musarion,  which  is  a  satire  on  the  Cynic  and  Pythago- 
rean systems  of  philosophy.  Fanias,  the  story  goes,  disappoint- 
ed in  his  love  for  the  nymph  Musarion,  adopts  the  Cynic  phi- 
losophy and  withdraws  to  the  forest.  There  Musarion  one  day 
appears  to  him  as  he  is  lying  half-asleep  in  his  musings,  and 
insists  upon  staying  and  talking  with  him,  until  darkness  comes 
on  and  she  does  not  wish  to  return  to  Athens  alone.  Reluctant- 
ly he  takes  her  to  his  lodge,  where  they  find  his  companions — 
a  young  Stoic,  Cleanthes;  and  a  Pythagorean,  Theophron — ■ 
actually  coming  to  blows  as  a  result  of  a  dispute  over  some 
philosophical  tenet.  Under  the  influence  of  Musarion's  pres- 
ence they  calm  themselves  and  talk  with  her  about  their  re- 
spective philosophical  systems.  At  length  the  evening  meal  is 
prepared,  which,  through  Musarion's  magic,  becomes  a  sump- 
tuous feast,  served  by  the  nymphs  Phyllis  and  Chloe.  Clean- 
thes and  Theophron  drink  immoderately,  until  Cleanthes  loses 
consciousness  and  Theophron  seeks  Chloe's  embrace.  Fanias 
avoids  excess,  but  becomes  increasingly  enamored  of  Musarion. 
In  the  end  he  seeks  her  in  her  chamber,  and  as  a  consequence 
abandons  his  Cynic  life.  As  for  the  others,  Cleanthes  dis- 
appears and  is  never  heard  from  more;  but  of  Theophron,  the 
poet  writes  :12 


TNfiei  SEAT  TON  IN  EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY    121 

Er  ward  in  einer  einz'gen  Nacht 

Zum  yvOiBt  aavrbv  in  Chloe's  Arm  gebracht; 

Er  fand  er  sey  night  klug,  und  lernte  Bohnen  essen.* 

So  the  poet  shows  that  the  would-be  philosophers  had  really 
adopted  the  ascetic  life  only  as  a  refuge  from  disappointment 
and  dissatisfaction,  for  they  were  ready  to  abandon  it  when 
human  delights  were  put  within  their  reach  enticingly:  and 
the  ypa)di  aavTov  came  to  mean  for  Theophron  knowing  his 
measure,  rather  than  knowing  his  soul. 

One  of  the  earliest  occurrences  of  the  theme  of  self-knowl- 
edge in  eighteenth-century  English  poetry  is  in  Gay's  fable  of 
"The  Man  and  the  Flea."13  Man  claims  that  the  world  was 
made  for  him,  the  fable  reads,  but  the  flea  on  his  nose  replies : 

Be  humble,  learn  thyself  to  scan; 
Know,  pride  was  never  made  for  Man. 
'Tis  vanity  that  swells  thy  mind. 
What,  Heav'n  and  Earth  for  thee  design'd! 
For  thee !  made  only  for  our  need, 
That  more  important  Fleas  might  feed. 

The  thought  that  man  is  not  necessarily  the  final  cause  of 
Creation  is  as  old  as  the  Stoics,  at  least,14  and  it  may  be  found 
in  the  writings  of  Descartes15  and  other  philosophers.16  It  was 
a  persistent  theme  with  Lord  Bolingbroke,17  from  whom  Pope 
derived  ideas  for  the  Essay  on  Man;  and  it  is  best  known  to  us, 
perhaps,  in  the  first  epistle  of  that  poem18 — a  poem  of  which 
self-knowledge  serves  as  the  keynote.  The  opening  verses  of 
the  second  epistle,  which  is  concerned  with  man  in  relation  to 
himself,  are  the  familiar 

Know  then  thyself:  presume  not  God  to  scan. 
The  proper  study  of  mankind  is  man. 

*  In  Chloe's  arms  he  was  brought  in  a  single  night  to  yv&Oi  aavrov;  he  found 
he  was  not  wise,  and  learned  to  eat  beans. 


i22  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

And  the  entire  poem  closes  with  the  words : 

And  all  our  knowledge  is,  ourselves  to  know. 

The  burden  of  the  first  epistle,  on  "The  Nature  and  State  of 
Man  with  Respect  to  the  Universe,"  is  that  man  should  know 
the  limits  of  his  wisdom  and  think  mortal  thoughts: 

Of  God  above,  or  man  below, 
What  can  we  reason,  but  from  what  we  know?19 

Man's  "knowledge"  is  "measur'd  to  his  state  and  place."20 
Man  in  his  pride  questions  God's  justice,  and 

Little  less  than  Angel,  would  be  more.21 
But 

The  bliss  of  man  (could  pride  that  blessing  find) 
Is  not  to  think  or  act  beyond  mankind.22 

In  the  three  remaining  epistles,  man's  knowledge  of  himself 
means  a  knowledge  of  his  soul.  In  the  second,  Pope  declares 
the  two  reigning  principles  in  human  nature  to  be  self-love,  of 
which  the  passions  are  "modes,"  and  reason,  which  controls 
them.  He  then  discusses  the  passions,  and  the  way  in  which 
virtue  and  vice  are  joined  in  our  nature  "to  some  mysterious 
use,"  and  touches  upon  the  social  value  of  self-love.  In  the 
third  epistle,  which  treats  of  man  with  respect  to  society,  he 
exalts  self-love,  showing 

That  true  Self-love  and  Social  are  the  same;23 

and  in  the  fourth  epistle,  he  shows  that  virtue  is  the  only  source 
of  happiness.  This  exaltation  of  self-love  at  its  best  might  seem 
at  first  thought  to  be  the  antithesis  of  self-love  as  the  foe  to 
self-knowledge  in  ecclesiastical  literature;  but  there  is  no  con- 
tradiction, really,  for  the  churchman  uses  self-love  as  a  syno- 
nym for  moral  selfishness,  whereas  the  philosopher  treats  it  as 
a  primitive  instinct — the  starting-point  of  all  outgoing,  and  so 
unselfish,  good  will.  Pope's  conception,  of  course,  is  a  natural 
outgrowth  of  the  insistence  of  Shaftesbury24  and  others  upon 


TNfiGI  SEATTON  IN  EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY    123 

the  co-existence  of  the  social  and  the  egoistic  impulses  from  the 
beginning,  in  opposition  to  Hobbes'  doctrine  that  the  egoistic 
principle  alone  is  original. 

The  popularity  and  influence  of  Pope's  Essay  on  Man  gave 
rise  to  the  echo  of  his  famous  lines  on  knowing  one's  self  in  the 
works  of  several  of  his  admirers.  In  William  Thompson's  sonnet 
"On  Mr.  Pope's  Works,"25  written  soon  after  his  death,  we  read: 

To  root  excesses  from  the  human  breast 
Behold  a  beauteous  pile  of  Ethics  rise; 


Where  Socrates  and  Horace  jointly  reign. 

Best  of  philosophers:  of  poets  too 

The  best !  He  teaches  thee  thyself  to  know. 

Matthew  Green  says,  near  the  close  of  "The  Spleen":26 

Hold,  Muse,  nor  melting  pinions  try, 
Nor  near  the  blazing  Glory  fly, 


My  soul,  the  vain  attempt  forego. 
Thyself,  the  fitter  subject,  know. 

So  John  Gilbert  Cooper  in  "The  Tomb  of  Shakespear"27  de- 
scribes his  visions  at  the  tomb  and  tells  how,  in  the  prayer 
which  he  offers  on  waking,  he  petitions : 

Let  not  my  reason  impiously  require 

What  Heav'n  has  plac'd  beyond  its  narrow  span, 


Teach  me  what  all  believe,  but  few  possess, 
That  life's  best  science  is  ourselves  to  know. 

And  James  Grainger  writes,  in  his  ode  on  "Solitude":28 

What  boots  through  Space's  furthest  bourns  to  roam, 
If  thou,  0  man,  a  stranger  art  at  home? 
Then  know  thyself,  the  human  mind  survey, 

Hence  Homer's  crown;  and,  Shakespeare,  hence  thy  bays. 
Hence  he,  the  pride  of  Athens,  and  the  shame, 
The  best  and  wisest  of  mankind  became. 


i24  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

Young's  Night  Thoughts  advocates  self-knowledge  in  three 
passages.  In  the  first,  the  poet  is  speaking  of  the  cross  of 
Christ,  and  of  how  it  may  signify  the  essential  divinity  of  man : 

"Man!  know  thyself!"  All  wisdom  centres  there; 
To  none  man  seems  ignoble  but  to  man; 
Angels  that  grandeur  men  o'erlook,  admire: 
How  long  shall  human  nature  be  their  book, 
Degen'rate  mortal,  and  unread  by  thee? 
The  beam  dim  Reason  sheds,  shows  wonders  there; 
What  high  contents,  illustrious  faculties! 
But  the  grand  comment  whicK  displays  at  full 
Our  human  height,  scarce  severed  from  Divine, 
By  Heaven  composed,  was  published  on  the  cross. 
Who  looks  on  that,  and  sees  not  in  himself 
An  awful  stranger,  a  terrestrial  God? 
A  glorious  partner  with  the  Deity 
In  that  high  attribute,  immortal  life  ?29 

In  the  second  passage,  the  poet  pictures  the  grief  and  emptiness 
of  existence  without  the  hope  of  immortality,  in  which  case 
self-knowledge  could  mean  only  misery : 

To  know  myself  true  wisdom?  No,  to  shun 
That  shocking  science,  Parent  of  despair! 
Avert  thy  mirror:  if  I  see,  I  die.30 

And  in  the  third,  he  recommends  a  knowledge  of  our  higher 
self  as  a  step  toward  the  higher  self-love : 

The  man  is  dead,  who  for  the  body  lives, 


Thyself,  first,  know;  then  love:  a  self  there  is 
Of  Virtue  fond,  that  kindles  at  her  charms.31 

It  is  in  his  poem  "Resignation,"  however,  written  when  he  was 
nearly  eighty  years  of  age,  that  Young  alludes  to  the  maxim. 


TNfiei  2EATT0N  IN  EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY    125 

He  there  represents  knowledge  as  the  child  of  resignation  in 
adversity,  and  as  the  revealer  of  God  in  the  soul: 

But  whither  points  all  this  parade? 
It  says  that  near  you  lies 
A  book,  perhaps  yet  unperus'd, 
Which  you  should  greatly  prize . 

Of  self -perusal — science  rare ! — 
Few  know  the  mighty  gain; 
Learn' d  prelates,  self  unread,  may  read 
Their  Bibles  o'er  in  vain. 

Self-knowledge,  which  from  heaven  itself 
(So  Sages  tell  us)  came, 
What  is  it  but  a  daughter  fair 
'  Of  my  maternal  theme? 

Unletter'd  and  untravel'd  men 

An  oracle  might  find, 

Would  they  consult  their  own  contents, 

The  Delphos  of  the  mind. 

Enter  your  bosom:  there  you'll  meet 
A  revelation  new, 
A  revelation  personal, 
Which  none  can  read  but  you. 

There  will  you  clearly  read  reveal' d 
In  your  enlighten'd  thought, 
By  mercies  manifold,  through  life, 
To  fresh  remembrance  brought, 

A  mighty  Being!  .  .  .  .  32 


After  Dr.  Johnson  had  revised  and  enlarged  his  famous  dic- 
tionary, he  evidently  felt  lost  with  the  great  work  off  his  hands ; 
and  he  expressed  his  restlessness  in  a  Latin  poem  entitled 
TvccOl  HeavTov.33  When  Scaliger  had  finished  his  lexicon,  the 
poem  reads,  he  cursed  the  work  and  consigned  the  writing  of 


126  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

lexicons  to  condemned  criminals;34  and  Scaliger  was  right,  be- 
cause he  could  do  bigger  things,  while  lesser  men  are  not  en- 
titled to  show  the  same  spirit.  "Each  man  should  know  his  own 
measure,"  Dr.  Johnson  says,  and  he  knows  that  he  cannot 
equal  Scaliger.  The  lassitude  and  melancholy  to  which  he  was 
subject  must  be  reckoned  with.  He  is  sleepless  and  restless; 
and  he  asks  whether  he  shall  spend  his  old  age  in  sluggish  ease, 
or  gird  himself  for  more  arduous  studies,  or  at  length  demand 
new  dictionaries!35 

Passages  from  the  works  of  three  other  English  poets  of  the 
period  call  for  mention.  Richard  Savage  in  The  Wanderer,  pub- 
lished earlier  than  any  of  the  above-mentioned  poems  except 
Gay's,  touches  a  phase  of  the  theme  which  is  to  be  given  new 
emphasis  in  the  following  century  in  the  verse : 

"Justly  to  know  thyself,  peruse  mankind."36 

Nathaniel  Cotton  and  William  Whitehead,  who  flourished 
later,  introduce  an  allusion  to  the  maxim  into  their  various 
familiar  remarks  about  self-knowledge.  In  the  last  of  Cotton's 
Visions  in  Verse,  entitled  "Death,"  Reason  cries: 

Retire,  and  commune  with  thy  heart, 

Ask,  whence  thou  cam'st,  and  what  thou  art. 


Study  the  science  of  your  heart. 
This  homely  philosophy,  you  know, 
Was  priz'd  some  thousand  years  ago. 

Not  all  the  volumes  on  thy  shelf 
Are  worth  that  single  volume,  self. 

Proclaim  the  truth — say,  what  is  man? 
His  body  from  the  dust  began; 

But  whence  the  soul?  From  Heav'n  it  came! 


rN£29I  2EATT0N  IN  EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY    127 

This  nobler  self  with  rapture  scan. 
'Tis  mind  alone  that  makes  the  man. 


Revere  thyself — thou'rt  near  ally'd 
To  angels  on  thy  better  side.37 

And  Whitehead  says  in  "A  Charge  to  the  Poets": 

It  boots  us  much  to  know,  observers  say, 
Of  what  materials  Nature  form'd  our  clay; 

O  mark  it  well!  does  pride  affect  to  reign 

The  solitary  tyrant  of  the  brain? 

Or  vanity  exert  her  quick'ning  flame, 

Stuck  round  with  ears  that  listen  after  fame? 

O  to  these  points  let  strict  regard  be  given, 

Nor  'know  thyself  in  vain  descend  from  Heaven.38 

In  eighteenth-century  English  prose  we  find  two  sermons 
and  two  little  books  on  the  theme  of  self-knowledge,  besides 
discussions  in  a  few  essays  and  brief  allusions  in  the  letters  of 
Lord  Chesterfield.  The  sermons  are  both  by  men  who  are  more 
famous  for  their  secular  works — by  Jonathan  Swift,  author  of 
Gulliver's  Travels;  and  by  Laurence  Sterne,  author  of  Tristram 
'Shandy.  Swift's  sermon  is  on  "The  Difficulty  of  Knowing 
Oneself,"  and  he  takes  for  his  text  the  story  of  Hazael' s  visit 
to  Elisha  to  ask  if  Ben-hadad,  king  of  Syria,  would  recover 
from  his  illness.39  Elisha  sees  in  Hazael  the  coming  murderer 
and  successor  of  Ban-hadad;  and  he  so  pictures  his  future 
cruelty  to  the  Israelites  that  Hazael  exclaims,  "What!  Is  thy 
servant  a  dog,  that  he  should  do  this  great  thing?"  Swift  says 
that  this  story  illustrates  well  the  deceitfulness  of  the  human 
heart  regarding  the  things  of  which  it  is  capable,  and  the 
sermon  goes  on  to  discuss  the  reasons  for  our  ignorance  of  self 
and  the  advantages  of  self-knowledge.  The  chief  reason  for  our 
self-ignorance,  he  says,  is  a  lack  of  reflection,  calling  for  a  dim- 


128  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

cult  process  of  concentration  for  which  we  do  not  take  the 
time,  nor  have  we  the  courage,  owing  to  our  fear  of  what  we 
may  see  revealed  within.  The  advantages  of  self-knowledge 
he  considers  to  be  a  modest  opinion  of  one's  self,  patience  under 
criticism,  since  we  know  we  deserve  it,  and  a  greater  charity 
with  the  faults  of  others,  once  we  know  our  own.  Sterne's 
sermon  is  entitled  " Self-knowledge,"40  and  he  takes  for  his  text 
the  passage  in  which  Nathan  makes  David's  sin  known  to  him 
through  the  parable  of  the  little  ewe  lamb — a  tale  which  roused 
David's  anger  at  the  supposed  offender.41  This  story,  like  the 
story  of  Hazael  referred  to  above,  is  taken  to  illustrate  the 
deceitfulness — the  blindness — of  the  human  heart,  in  that  it  is 
so  often  guilty  of  the  very  conduct  which  it  condemns  in 
others.42  The  knowledge  of  self  is  "one  of  the  hardest  and  most 
painful  lessons,"  Sterne  reflects;  and  so  it  was  that  "some  of  the 
earliest  instructors  of  mankind  ....  saw  the  necessity  for  lay- 
ing such  a  stress  upon  this  great  precept  of  self-knowledge, 
which  for  its  excellent  wisdom  and  usefulness,  many  of  them 
supposed  to  be  a  divine  direction;  that  it  came  down  from 
Heaven,  and  comprehended  the  whole  circle  both  of  the  knowl- 
edge and  the  duty  of  man."  As  an  aid  to  self-knowledge,  Sterne 
recommends  the  setting  apart  of  some  small  portion  of  the  day 
for  searching  the  heart. 

One  of  the  books  to  which  we  referred  above  is  an  unim- 
portant little  tract  by  one  Samuel  Walker,  curate  of  Truro  in 
Cornwall,  entitled  A  Familiar  Introduction  to  the  Knowledge  of 
Ourselves.  The  author's  purpose,  he  tells  us,  is  to  help  those  who 
are  willing  to  search  into  themselves  by  affording  a  "kind  of 
key,  whereby  the  various  Iniquities  that  dwell  in  their  Hearts 
may  be  opened  to  them."43  Of  far  more  importance  is  the  book 
by  John  Mason,  a  non-conformist  divine,  who  first  attracted 
attention  by  publishing  his  Plea  for  Christianity  in  1743.  His 


rNQGI  SEAT  TON  IN  EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY    129 

treatise  on  Self-knowledge,  one  of  the  longest  and  most  complete 
works  on  the  subject  which  the  century  produced,  was  held  in 
high  esteem,  if  we  may  judge  from  the  fact  that  it  went  through 
six  editions  in  the  eighteen  years  succeeding  its  first  appearance 
in  1745.  Pope's  "The  proper  study  of  mankind  is  man"  is  used 
with  Juvenal's  "E  caelo  descendit  yv&di  ceauro^"  as  a  flyleaf 
inscription.  In  his  Preface  the  author  acknowledges  his  debt  to 
Baxter's  The  Mischiefs  of  Self -Ignorance,  but  says  that  he  has 
become  convinced  that  "something  more  correct,  nervous,  and 
methodical"  is  wanting  on  the  subject.  He  apologizes  for  his 
marginal  quotations  from  "heathen"  writers,  because  it  looks 
like  an  ostentation  of  reading,  although  it  was  conversing  with 
those  authors  that  first  turned  his  thought  to  the  subject;  and 
if  the  reader  cares  for  them,  he  will  find  that  they  contain  some 
of  the  finest  sentiments  in  the  book.  The  work  is  divided  into 
three  parts — on  "The  Nature  and  Importance  of  the  Subject," 
on  "The  Excellency  and  Advantages  of  This  Kind  of  Science," 
and  on  "How  Self -Knowledge  Is  to  Be  Attained."  The  point 
of  view  with  which  the  book  is  written  is  that  of  the  church- 
man, and  thus  religious,  though  not  mystical.  We  are  exhorted 
to  know  what  we  are  and  what  we  shall  be,  our  relation  to  God 
and  Christ  and  our  fellow-men,  our  talents  and  capacities,  our 
faults  and  deficiencies,  our  thoughts  and  motives,  our  life's 
aim,  and  our  fitness  for  death.  Self-knowledge  brings  self-pos- 
session, humility,  charity,  moderation,  improved  judgment,  the 
proper  exercise  of  self-denial,  consistency,  and  piety;  and  it  is 
attained  by  self-examination,  by  learning  the  opinions  of  others, 
by  converse  with  our  superiors,  by  oblivion  to  the  world,  and 
especially  by  fervent  and  frequent  prayer.  The  work  is  thus 
seen  to  cover  virtually  the  same  ground  as  earlier  treatises  on 
the  subject,  including  Baxter's;  and  the  style,  while  a  little  more 
logical  and  matter-of-fact,  is  really  not  more  pleasing  than  his. 


130  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

Among  the  essayists,  we  find  the  maxim  discussed  by  the 
third  Earl  of  Shaftesbury  in  his  Characteristics,  by  Addison  in 
The  Spectator ,  and  by  Dr.  Johnson  in  The  Rambler;  and  it  is 
discussed  by  the  poet  Young  in  his  essay  entitled  Conjectures 
on  Original  Composition,  besides  being  quoted  in  a  satirical 
connection  in  his  Dedication  to  The  Centaur  Not  Fabulous. 
Shaftesbury  says  that  the  ancients  conceived  that  we  each 
possess  a  8aiiJ.Gov,  and  it  is  our  business  to  discover  that  the  soul 
is  of  a  dual  nature  and  put  the  superior  in  authority.  "This 
was  among  the  Ancients,"  he  continues,  "that  celebrated 
Delphic  inscription,  Recognize  yourself;  which  was  as  much 
as  to  say,  Divide  yourself,  or  be  two.  For  if  the  division  were 
rightly  made,  all  within  would,  of  course,  they  thought,  be 
rightly  understood  and  prudently  managed."44  Shaftesbury 
says  further  that  the  philosophical  writings  referred  to  in 
Horace's  Ars  Poetica  were  either  real  dialogues  or  recitals  of 
personated  discourses,  which  exhibited  morals  and  manners 
alive,  teaching  men  to  know  others,  and  more  important  still, 
themselves ;  and  that  in  the  secondary  characters  particularly, 
men  might  see  themselves  as  in  a  mirror — even  their  minutest 
features.45  Addison,  in  The  Spectator  for  June  7,  171 2,  declares 
his  intention  to  show  the  reader  "those  methods  by  which  he 
may  arrive  at  a  true  and  impartial  knowledge  of  himself."46 
In  addition  to  the  means  usually  prescribed,  which  he  desig- 
nates as  a  study  of  the  Scriptures  and  a  comparison  of  our  lives 
with  Christ's,  he  proposes  that  we  consider  what  our  enemies 
think  of  us,  and  in  how  far  we  deserve  the  approbation  we 
receive. 

Dr.  Johnson  treats  of  self-knowledge  in  two  numbers  of 
The  Rambler, A1  the  second  article,  written  two  weeks  later,  be- 
ing really  a  continuation  of  the  first.  There  is  no  more  famous 
precept  than  yv&di  aeavrbv,  he  says,  and  it  comprises  "all  the 


TNO0I  2EATT0N  IN  EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY    131 

speculation  requisite  to  a  moral  agent."  It  means  "the  knowl- 
edge of  our  original,  our  end,  our  duties,  and  our  relation  to 
other  beings,"  although  the  first  author  is  not  likely  to  have 
intended  it  in  so  complicated  a  sense.  Yet  all  of  Socrates'  lec- 
tures were  but  commentaries  upon  the  maxim.  The  lack  of  self- 
knowledge  is  responsible  for  every  error  in  conduct,  for  unwise 
ventures,  and  for  misdirected  effort  and  pride.  Then  he  con- 
cludes the  first  article  with  the  following  unusual  application : 

There  is  one  instance  in  which  the  ladies  are  particularly  unwilling 
to  observe  the  rule  of  Chilo.  They  are  desirous  to  hide  from  themselves 
the  advances  of  age,  and  endeavor  too  frequently  to  supply  the  sprightli- 
ness  and  bloom  of  youth  by  artificial  beauty  and  forced  vivacity  .... 
and  are  scarcely  awakened  from  their  dream  of  perpetual  youth  but  by 
the  scorn  of  those  whom  they  endeavor  to  rival.48 

In  the  second  article  he  discusses  the  difficulty  of  attaining 
self-knowledge,  emphasizes  the  assistance  of  adversity,  and 
recommends  retirement  for  reflection  that  we  may  "consider 
things  as  if  there  were  no  other  beings  in  the  world  but  God 
and  ourselves." 

Young,  in  his  Conjectures  on  Original  Composition,  is  seek- 
ing a  remedy  for  men  who  underestimate  their  literary  gifts, 
and  he  writes : 

Since  it  is  plain  that  men  may  be  strangers  to  their  own  abilities, 
and  by  thinking  meanly  of  them  without  just  cause  may  possibly  lose  a 
name,  perhaps  a  name  immortal,  I  would  find  some  means  to  prevent 
these  evils  ....  I  borrow  two  golden  rules  from  Ethics,  which  are  no  less 
golden  in  composition  than  in  life:  1.  'Know  thyself;  2.  'Reverence 
thyself Therefore  dive  deep  into  thy  bosom;  learn  the  depth,  ex- 
tent, bias,  and  full  fort  of  thy  mind;  ....  excite  and  cherish  every  spark 
of  intellectual  light  and  heat,  however  smothered  under  former  negli- 
gence, or  scattered  through  the  dull,  dark  mass  of  common  thoughts; 
and,  collecting  them  into  a  body,  let  thy  genius  rise  (if  a  genius  thou 
hast)  as  the  sun  from  chaos.49 


i3 2  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

In  the  Dedication  to  The  Centaur  Not  Fabulous,  addressed  to 

the  Lady (probably  the  Countess  of  Yarmouth,  the 

king's  mistress),50  Young  explains  that  a  centaur  is  a  type  of 
those  who  are  given  over  to  gross  pleasures — those  in  whom 
"the  brute  runs  away  with  the  man."  At  length,  continuing 
his  vivid  satire,  he  pictures  an  imaginary  frontispiece  for  his 
work,  designed  to  be  duly  suggestive  to  the  scholars  of  her 
"modern  Academy"  (meaning,  apparently,  the  centaurs  of  the 
court  circles),  just  as  "the  statues  of  the  renowned  are  set  up 
in  public,  to  kindle  honest  emulation,  and  in  most  ancient 
schools  of  wisdom  were  the  busts  or  portraits  of  the  wise."  It 
is  a  unique  frontispiece  that  he  has  in  mind  when  he  exclaims : 

What,  Madam,  if  for  your  modern  Academy  Hogarth  should  draw 
a  centaur  ....  with  Harlequin's  sabre  by  his  side;  in  a  party-coloured 
jacket  of  pictured  cards;  a  band  of  music  before,  a  scaramouch-demon 
behind  him;  a  weathercock  on  his  head,  a  rattle  in  his  hand,  the  Deca- 
logue under  his  feet,  and  for  the  benefit  of  your  scholars,  a  label  out  of  his 
mouth,  inscribed  as  was  the  temple  of  Apollo,  with  TvwOi  o-eavrbv,  in 
letters  of  gold?  (In  me  Know  thyself) 5I 

The  scholars,  he  adds,  would  take  the  maxim  in  its  true  philo- 
sophical sense  and  "wonder  how  it  came  into  the  mouth  of  so 
ridiculous  and,  to  them,  so  foreign  a  monster." 

The  allusions  to  the  theme  of  self-knowledge  in  the  Letters 
of  Lord  Chesterfield  to  His  Son  are  brief.  He  says  in  one  letter,52 
"The  great  and  necessary  knowledge  of  all  is,  to  know  yourself 
and  others:  this  knowledge  requires  great  attention  and  long 
experience;  exert  the  former,  and  may  you  have  the  latter!" 
And  in  another  letter53  he  writes : 

I  know  myself,  (no  common  piece  of  knowledge,  let  me  tell  you).  I 
know  what  I  can,  what  I  cannot,  and  consequently  what  I  ought  to  do. 
And  I  ought  not,  and  therefore  will  not,  return  to  business  when  I  am 
much  less  fit  for  it  than  I  was  when  I  quitted  it. 


TN^ei  SEATTON  IN  EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY    133 

While  there  is  very  little  that  is  new  in  these  eighteenth- 
century  allusions  to  the  maxim,  either  in  its  connotations  or  in 
the  means  suggested  for  attaining  self-knowledge,  it  is  interest- 
ing to  observe  the  variety  of  ancient  forces  given  it  in  this 
century,  in  view  of  the  limited  extent  to  which  it  is  quoted,  as 
well  as  the  prominence  of  most  of  the  men  to  whom  it  appealed. 
We  find  the  maxim  (or  in  some  instances  a  phrase  for  self- 
knowledge)  used  in  the  sense  of  knowing  our  measure  by 
Genovesi,  Wieland,  Gay,  and  Dr.  Johnson;  in  the  sense  of 
knowing  our  ability,  by  Young  and  Lord  Chesterfield;  in 
the  sense  of  knowing  that  we  are  mortal,  by  Pope;  in  the 
sense  of  knowing  the  limits  of  our  wisdom,  by  Pope  and 
Hamann;  in  the  sense  of  knowing  our  faults,  by  Swift, 
Sterne,  and  Young;  in  the  sense  of  knowing  our  dual  nature, 
by  Buffon,  Cotton,  and  Shaftesbury;  in  the  sense  of  knowing 
our  Soul,  by  Wolf,  Wieland,  Voltaire,  Vico,  Rinaldi,  and 
Young;  and  in  a  number  of  these  senses,  by  Abbadie,  Wolf,  and 
Mason.  The  means  suggested  for  gaining  self-knowledge  are: 
looking  at  our  neighbor  as  into  a  mirror,  or  listening  to  his 
opinion  of  us,  whether  he  be  friend  or  foe;  the  study  of  philos- 
ophy and  literature  and  the  pursuit  of  education  in  general; 
adversity;  retirement  for  reflection  and  other  religious  observ- 
ances. The  application  of  the  maxim  to  women's  recognition 
of  their  advancing  years  is  an  incidental  new  phase  of  knowing 
that  we  are  mortal.  Of  more  significance  is  the  single  sugges- 
tion that  the  best  means  to  self-knowledge  is  a  knowledge  of 
mankind.  The  idea  that  yv&8i  aeavrbv  means  to  know  man  was 
a  conception  of  the  Stoics,  but  they  did  not  say,  "Come  to 
know  yourself  through  knowing  men  in  general."  This  is,  rather, 
an  essentially  modern  thought,  and  one  which  becomes  mark- 
edly insistent  in  the  following  period. 


CHAPTER  VIII 

TNOGI  2EATT0N  IN  THE  PHILOSOPHY  OF 
THE  PERIOD  FROM  1775  TO  1875 

The  last  quarter  of  the  eighteenth  century  with  its  surging 
tide  of  democracy,  as  expressed  in  the  American  War  of  Inde- 
pendence, and,  more  significantly  still,  in  the  French  Revolu- 
tion, is  generally  regarded  as  the  beginning  of  the  modern  era. 
It  marked  the  introduction  of  an  epoch  which,  while  growing 
out  of  and  recognizing  its  dependence  upon  the  past,  was  des- 
tined to  witness  a  rapidity  of  development  along  material, 
scientific,  and  political  lines  hitherto  unparalleled,  and  to  de- 
mand large  and  ever  widening  adjustments  in  the  thought-life 
of  mankind.  The  wellsprings  of  the  movement  are  to  be  found 
in  the  philosophy,  both  metaphysical  and  social,  of  the  years 
preceding,  with  their  insistence  upon  freedom  of  thought — a 
philosophy  which  refused  to  sanction  any  authority  save  the 
mind  and  spirit  of  man,  and  the  truth  deduced  from  a  reasoned 
understanding  thereof.  This  new  spirit  of  freedom  and  its  con- 
sequent philosophy  of  life,  which  found  its  political  protest  in 
the  French  Revolution,  gave  rise  to  the  Romantic  movement 
in  the  literature  of  France  and  England,  formed  the  inspiration 
of  the  best  in  the  nineteenth-century  literature  of  Italy  and 
America,  and  was  essentially  the  soul  of  the  great  golden  age 
of  German  literature.  The  spirit  of  the  new  era  is  reflected  in 
the  character  of  the  discussions  of  yvudi  aeavrov;  and  while  the 
old  forces  of  the  apothegm  linger  on  until  the  present  day  (and 
perchance  will  always  linger,  because  self-knowledge  must  ever 
include  them),  many  of  those  forces  become  increasingly  sec- 

134 


MAXIM  IN  PHILOSOPHY,  1775-1875  135 

ondary  or  incidental  in  the  presence  of  man's  enlarged  concep- 
tion of  himself  and  his  place  in  the  world.  We  look  for  the 
maxim  in  vain,  however,  in  the  writings  of  Rousseau  and  others 
who  were  widely  influential  in  the  French  Revolutionary  move- 
ment. It  is  rather  in  German  philosophy  in  the  period  beginning 
with  Kant  that  we  begin  to  find  it  colored  with  the  modern  spirit. 
It  is  but  a  truism  to  say  that  while  the  object  of  modern 
speculative  philosophy  may  be  to  discover  "the  irreducible  all- 
of-reality,"1  man's  conception  of  his  existence  and  of  his  rela- 
tion to  the  universe  usually  forms  the  basis  of  the  investiga- 
tion; and  the  ultimate  aim  of  every  "spiritualistic"  philosophi- 
cal system2  is  a  knowledge  of  the  reality  of  one's  own  self,  of 
the  Supreme  Self,  and  of  other  selves,  in  whatever  way  the 
given  system  may  relate  them,  and  under  whatever  termi- 
nology. Self-knowledge,  therefore,  is  a  leading  theme  of  mod- 
ern metaphysics;  and  from  that  standpoint,  the  yv&Bi  aeavrov 
on  Apollo's  temple  might  be  regarded  as  the  watchword  for 
modern  as  for  ancient  philosophy.3  The  self-knowledge  of  mod- 
ern philosophy,  however,  is,  as  a  rule,  a  purely  reasoned  self- 
knowledge,  calling  for  abstract  thought,  to  be  sure,  but  shorn 
of  any  Neo-Platonistic  or  mystical  tendency  to  abstract  the 
self  from  the  realm  of  sense  until  it  apprehends  or  merges  with 
the  Supreme  Self.4  Moreover,  the  emphasis  upon  the  reality 
of  other  selves,  so  generally  characteristic  of  modern  specula- 
tive philosophy,  leads  to  an  essentially  new  basis  for  self-knowl- 
edge from  the  ethical  standpoint.  Under  the  possible  initial 
influence  of  Kant's  doctrine  of  "duty,"  seemingly,  to  know 
one's  self  comes  to  mean  a  recognition  of  others  not  merely  in 
judging  of  one's  characteristics  by  what  we  know  of  other  indi- 
viduals, nor  even  in  realizing  that  we  were  "born  for  civil 
society,"  as  the  Stoics  put  it,5  although  service  to  society  is  a 
natural  consequence  of  the  new  conception.  The  ethical  self- 


136  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

knowledge  of  modern  philosophy  and  literature  is  essentially  a 
social  self-knowledge.  It  emphasizes  man's  knowledge  of  him- 
self as  a  unit  of  society,  and  postulates  that  the  individual  can- 
not know  himself  by  self-examination  alone  or  chiefly,  but  only 
through  knowing  his  environment — through  his  relation  to 
other  selves  in  general.  So  it  is  that  an  era  of  extreme  individu- 
alism becomes  an  era  of  quickened  social  consciousness;6  and 
discussions  of  yv&di  aeavrov  now,  as  heretofore,  come  to  reflect 
the  enlarged  view  of  the  " enlightened,"  as  "the  thoughts  of 
men  are  widened  with  the  process  of  the  suns." 

The  maxim  is  rarely  quoted  in  the  French,  English,  and 
Italian  philosophical  works  of  the  period  under  consideration; 
but  it  occurs  in  the  writings  of  Kant,  Schelling,  Schopenhauer, 
Hegel,  and  a  few  less  important  German  philosophers,  such  as 
Feuerbach  and  Baader.  This  fact,  together  with  the  strong 
influence  of  German  philosophy  upon  nineteenth-century  Eng- 
lish literature,  as  well  as  upon  the  literature  of  Germany  her- 
self, suggests  the  use  of  the  maxim  in  German  philosophy  as 
the  logical  starting-point  in  a  consideration  of  its  interpreta- 
tions in  the  current  and  subsequent  literary  period.  German 
philosophers  quote  the  maxim  with  two  main  connotations — 
knowing  one's  self  psychically:  the  mind's  abstract,  inward 
reasoned  knowledge  of  itself;  and  knowing  one's  self  ethically, 
with  reference  to  the  motives  and  ends  of  conduct.7  Kant's  dis- 
cussion of  yv&Bi  aeavrov  is  mainly  ethical,  but  Schopenhauer 
applies  the  maxim  to  Kant's  doctrine  that  the  characteristics 
of  known  objects  are  phenomena  of  consciousness,  in  a  succinct 
passage  in  his  Theoria  colorum  physiological  He  is  explaining 
that  our  perception  of  color  in  objects  is  due  to  the  behavior 
of  the  retina  of  the  eye  and  not  to  the  refraction  of  the  rays  of 
light,  as  Newton  taught;  and  to  illustrate  the  difference  be- 
tween the  two  conceptions,  he  says: 


MAXIM  IN  PHILOSOPHY,  1775-1875  137 

Copernicus  in  days  gone  by  showed  that  the  earth  revolves,  instead 
of  being  a  sphere  around  which  the  heavenly  bodies  roll;  and  likewise 
supreme  Kant,  in  place  of  absolute  qualities  of  things  ontologically 
comprehended,  revealed  the  forms  of  cognition  properly  belonging  to  the 
mind  and  implanted  in  us.  Tvwdu  aavrov  praecipit  Apollo. 

Moreover,  Baader  uses  Tvoodi  Heavrop  for  the  subtitle  of 
his  Preliminary  Report  on  the  Transformation  of  Metaphysics 
Introduced  into  Germany  through  Professor  Kant,9  and  in  the 
course  of  the  Report  he  writes : 

Kant  saw  that  Tv&Qi  aeavTov  was  necessary  for  us  above  all,  and  that 
should  we  have  to  stand  in  ignorance  about  all  the  circumstances  that 
surround  us,  we  could  in  no  way  find  excuse  for  ignorance  of  the  true 
nature  of  our  understanding.  He  therefore  searched  further  and  found  in 
this  way  that  our  speculative  understanding  is  not,  as  it  might  appear 
from  the  inevitable  and  natural  delusion,  an  unlimited  and  illimitable 
plain,  but  that  it  is  rather  to  be  likened  to  a  sphere,  whose  circumference 
he  sought  to  bound.10 

Hegel's  interpretation  of  yvdSi  aeavrov  is  almost  exclusively 
psychical,  although  universal  in  the  psychic  sense.  He  says  in 
the  Introduction  to  his  Philosophy  of  Mind: 

The  significance  of  that  "absolute"  commandment  Know  thyself — 
whether  we  look  at  it  in  itself  or  under  the  historical  circumstances  of  its 
first  utterance — is  not  to  promote  mere  self-knowledge  in  respect  of  the 
particular  capacities,  character,  propensities,  and  foibles  of  the  single  self. 
The  knowledge  it  commands  means  that  of  man's  genuine  reality — of 
what  is  essentially  and  ultimately  true  and  real — of  mind  as  the  true  and 
essential  being.11 

In  the  Introduction  to  his  lectures  on  the  History  of  Philosophy 
he  applies  the  maxim  to  the  activity  of  the  subject  self,  declar- 
ing that  the  mind  is  actively  living  only  as  it  is  self -knowing : 

It  has  been  shown  above  in  reference  to  the  existence  of  mind  that  its 

Being  is  its  Activity The  activity  of  mind  is  to  know  itself.  I  am, 

immediately,  but  this  I  am  only  as  a  living  organism;  as  Mind  I  am  only 


138  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

in  so  far  as  I  know  myself.  YvoiOt  aeavrbv,  Know  thyself,  the  inscription 
over  the  temple  of  the  oracle  at  Delphi,  is  the  absolute  command  which  is 
expressed  by  Mind  in  its  essential  character.  But  consciousness  really 
implies  that  for  myself  I  am  object  to  myself I2 

In  his  discussion  of  Socrates'  life  and  teaching,  Hegel  shows 
how  Socrates  made  man's  inner  consciousness  the  criterion  of 
judgment  regarding  truth  and  duty,  and  that  this  inner  spirit, 
or  "daemon,"  of  Socrates  was  in  a  sense  a  new  god  among  the 
Athenians.  The  fact  that  the  Pythia  declared  Socrates  to  be 
the  wisest  man  is  noteworthy  in  this  connection,  he  thinks;  and 
he  adds: 

Socrates  it  was  who  carried  out  the  command  of  the  God  of  knowl- 
edge, "Know  Thyself,"  and  made  it  the  motto  of  the  Greeks,  calling  it 
the  law  of  the  mind,  and  not  interpreting  it  as  meaning  a  mere  acquaint- 
anceship with  the  particular  nature  of  man.  Thus  Socrates  is  the  hero 
who  established  in  the  place  of  the  Delphic  oracle,  the  principle  that  man 
must  look  within  himself  to  know  what  is  Truth.  Now  seeing  that  the 
Pythia  herself  pronounced  that  utterance,  we  find  in  it  a  complete  revolu- 
tion in  the  Greek  mind,  and  the  fact  that  in  the  place  of  the  oracle,  the 
personal  self -consciousness  of  every  thinking  man  has  come  into  play.13 

Hegel  once  more  quotes  the  maxim  as  a  command  to  know  the 
mind,  or  inner  spirit,  in  the  Introduction  to  his  Philosophy  of 
the  Middle  Ages.  He  has  been  discussing  the  fundamental  idea 
of  Christianity  from  a  philosophical  standpoint — that  the 
image  of  God,  or  the  spiritual,  is  implicit  in  the  natural  man, 
and  man  attains  to  Truth,  or  becomes  one  with  God — becomes 
explicit — through  rising  above  the  natural.  This  idea  of  Chris- 
tianity has  come  forth  and  become  the  universal  consciousness 
of  the  nations.  That  it  has  come  forth  as  the  world-religion  is 
the  content  of  history,  and  necessarily  so,  if  we  understand 
the  philosophy  of  history.  "To  this  end,"  he  explains,  "the 
conception  of  mind  must  be  made  fundamental,  and  it  must 
now  be  shown  that  history  is  the  process  of  mind  itself,  the 


MAXIM  IN  PHILOSOPHY,  1775-1875  139 

revelation  of  itself  from  its  first  superficial,  enshrouded  con- 
sciousness, and  the  attainment  of  this  standpoint  of  its  free 
self-consciousness,  in  order  that  the  absolute  command  of  Mind 
"Know  thyself,"  may  be  fulfilled."14 

The  foregoing  passages  show  clearly  Hegel's  psychical  inter- 
pretation of  the  maxim.  Yvcodi  aeavrov  is  the  absolute  command 
of  the  Absolute  "Geist"  to  know  "Geist"  as  reality,  as  active 
being,  whose  very  activity  is  knowing  itself;  and  self-knowledge 
may  thus  be  regarded  as  a  "process,"  both  in  the  individual  and 
in  history,  Similarly,  Schelling  interprets  the  apothegm  as  the 
impulse  to  a  psychic  process  in  his  discussion  of  whether  abso- 
lute freedom  can  be  known.15  It  cannot  be  known  as  absolute 
subject,  he  says,  for  it  is  beyond  all  knowledge,  but  its  negative, 
not-freedom,  may  be  known  as  object,  and  through  the  develop- 
ment out  of  knowledge  of  the  object  toward  the  self-knowledge 
of  the  subject  there  lies  the  possibility  of  the  self-knowledge  of 
the  eternal  freedom.  It  is  a  process  in  which  the  object  is  sub- 
ject, and  the  subject  object — the  known  the  knowing,  and  the 
knowing  the  known.  Eternal  freedom  has  no  knowledge  of  it- 
self in  the  beginning,  for  it  is  passive,  implicit;  in  the  middle 
stages  it  knows  itself  as  something  other,  not  as  eternal  free- 
dom; for  only  in  the  end  can  eternal  freedom  be  conceived  as 
knowing  itself  as  such.  In  the  process  it  is  subject  and  object 
both;  and  subject  and  object  cannot  meet,  any  more  than  the 
two  poles  of  a  magnet  can  come  together.  Therefore  the  whole 
process  is  a  process  toward  self-knowledge,  he  goes  on  to  say, 
and  adds:  "The  imperative,  the  impulse  of  the  whole  move- 
ment is  the  Tv&di  aeavrov,  'Know  thyself/  the  exercise  of  which 
is  generally  regarded  as  Wisdom." 

We  have  already  referred  to  Baader's  application  of  the 
maxim  to  the  system  of  Kant,  and  he  cites  it  elsewhere  in  his 
works.  In  his  Tagebuch  for  June  3,  1786,16  he  quotes  three  or 


i4o  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

four  Latin  passages  which  enjoin  self-knowledge,  beginning 
with  Nosce  te  ipsum,  which  he  connects  with  the  nee  te  quaesieris 
extra  of  Persius,17  and  declares  that  herein  lies  the  magic  key 
which  unlocks  all  abysses  within  and  without,  banishes  ignor- 
ance and  self-satisfaction,  and  entices  us  into  the  fairy  temple 
of  Truth  and  Inner  Joy.  "The  only  criterion  of  truth,"  he 
maintains,  "is  the  innermost  consciousness  of  that  which  we 
feel.18  The  seeds  of  all  knowledge,  all  goodness  and  badness, 
lie  in  me.  All  outer  experiences  can  only  develop  these;  mid- 
wifery and  all  books  can  do  nothing  further."  And  in  one  of 
his  lectures  on  Religions philosophies  he  writes  with  his  usual 
mystical  phraseology  that  since  man  is  an  image  of  God,  and 
God  reflects  himself  in  man,  man  by  virtue  of  his  origin  and  mis- 
sion should  look  upward  to  God.  Then  he  continues: 

The  saying  of  the  Delphic  oracle  becomes  true  for  him  (man),  namely 
that  the  self-knowledge  of  man  should  carry  him  only  to  the  knowledge 
of  what  is  over  him,  rather  than  of  what  is  around  and  under  him,  if 
indeed  ....  the  self-knowledge  of  man  is  not  of  his  finding  or  making, 
but  the  gift  of  God  to  him,  which  he  has  wrought  out  by  working  with 
it  and  making  it  a  part  of  himself,  like  food,  or  breath,  or  the  like. 

This  sentence  shows  that  Baader  is  thinking  of  self-knowledge 
not  only  in  the  religious  and  mystical  sense  of  man's  realization 
of  his  relation  to  God  and  the  method  of  approach  to  him,  but 
also  in  the  philosophical  sense  of  a  psychic  process — a  develop- 
ing of  something  implicit  in  him. 

To  consider  all  of  the  passages  in  modern  philosophy  in 
which  self-knowledge  is  discussed  in  this  abstract  metaphysical 
sense  would  involve  the  repetition  of  much  that  has  been  writ- 
ten, and  would  keep  us  needlessly  long  in  the  realm  of  meta- 
physics. It  seems  advisable,  therefore,  to  limit  this  phase  of 
our  study  to  the  passages  cited  above,  in  which  the  maxim 
either  occurs  or  is  unmistakably  implied.20  A  further  applica- 


MAXIM  IN  PHILOSOPHY,  1775-1875  141 

tion  of  yv&Ot,  aeavTov  in  the  sense  of  knowing  one's  mind  may 
be  found  in  Feuerbach's  Introduction  to  Das  Wesen  des  Chris- 
tenthums,21  but  he  uses  it  in  the  more  general  sense  of  knowing 
that  we  are  endowed  with  a  mind  capable  of  scientific  and 
abstract  thought,  in  contrast  with  the  material  and  animal 
creation.  He  says  that  the  moon,  the  sun,  the  stars,  cry  out  to 
man  the  Tv&di  aeavrov ;  and  the  fact  that  he  sees  them,  and  sees 
them  as  he  sees  them,  is  a  witness  to  his  real  essence.  The 
animal  is  concerned  only  with  the  rays  of  light  necessary  for 
life;  man,  on  the  contrary,  is  more  concerned  with  the  unim- 
portant ray  of  the  farthest  star.  Man  has  pure,  intellectual, 
disinterested  joys  and  affections.  Man  only  makes  much  of  the 
steadfast  look  of  theoretic  knowledge. 

The  ethical  interpretation  given  to  the  maxim  by  the  Ger- 
man philosophers  occurs  chiefly  in  the  works  of  Kant  and 
Schopenhauer.  One  of  the  sections  of  Kant's  Metaphysics  of 
Ethics  is  entitled  "The  first  commandment  of  all  Duties  owed 
by  Man  to  himself,"  and  it  begins  as  follows: 

This  is,  Know  Thyself,  not  after  thy  physical  perfection,  but  after 
thy  ethical,  in  reference  to  thy  duty.  Search,  try  thy  heart,  whether  it 
be  good  or  evil,  whether  the  springs  of  thy  conduct  be  pure  or  impure; 
and  how  much,  either  as  originally  belonging  to  thy  substance  or  as  ac- 
quired by  thee,  may  be  imputable  to  thy  account,  and  may  go  to  make  up 
thy  moral  state.22 

Kant  then  goes  on  to  say  that  the  self-knowledge  springing 
from  an  examination  of  the  depths  of  the  heart  is  the  beginning 
of  all  human  wisdom.  Wisdom  consists  in  the  accordance  of  the 
will  with  its  end  of  existence;  and  it  is  therefore  necessary  -that 
man  remove  the  inner  hindrance,  the  bad  will  nestled  in  him- 
self, and  endeavor  to  develop  the  originally  implicit  good  will. 
The  recognition  of  this  fundamental  goodness  within  him  keeps 
a  man  from  a  low  estimate  of  his  intrinsic  worth  as  a  man,  and 


142  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

of  the  human  race  in  general,  and  it  affords  him  a  standard  of 
judgment.  It  is  his  duty  to  develop  the  implicit  goodness  with- 
in him — to  attempt  to  perfect  his  moral  nature;  but,  owing  to 
the  frailty  of  human  nature,  this  duty  becomes  a  never  ending 
obligation,  as  far  as  this  life  is  concerned.23 

Schopenhauer  says,  in  the  chapter  of  the  supplement  to 
The  World  as  Will  and  Idea  entitled  "Of  the  Primacy  of  the 
Will  in  Self- Consciousness,"  that  we  may  be  ruled  by  motives 
which  we  are  ashamed  to  own,  and  may  even  fail  to  guess  the 
true  motive  of  our  conduct,  and  he  remarks  in  passing  that 
we  have  in  all  this  "a  commentary  on  the  Socratic  7^co0i  aavrov 
and  its  difficulty."24  In  his  Counsels  and  Maxims  he  introduces 
the  precept  in  a  discussion  of  the  value  of  a  man's  having  a  plan 
for  his  life-work — a  miniature  outline  sketch,  to  which  he 
should  look  from  time  to  time  for  inspiration  and  for  help  in 
keeping  in  the  straight  path.  In  order  to  form  such  a  plan,  he 
says  that  a  man  "must  have  made  some  little  beginning  in 
yv&Bi  aavrov  and  therefore  know  what  he  really  and  chiefly 
wants  above  all  else — what  is  actually  essential  to  his  happi- 
ness— and  then  what  occupies  the  second  and  the  third  place 
after  that;  so  also  he  must  know  what,  on  the  whole,  his  calling 
is,25  his  role  and  his  general  relation  to  the  world."26  The  diffi- 
culty of  knowing  ourselves  as  we  really  are,  and  the  reasons  for 
it,  are  discussed  in  the  Psychologische  B enter kungen.27  A  man 
cannot  secure  a  complete  picture  of  himself  in  a  mirror,  he 
says,  "a  difficulty  which  stands  in  the  way  of  yv&di  aavrov  at 
its  very  first  step" — because  he  can  see  himself  from  only  one 
angle.  The  ethical  situation  is  analogous,  for  it  is  not  possible 
for  him  to  separate  himself  from  himself  entirely  and  so  see 
himself  objectively. 

There  is  nothing  very  new  in  these  ethical  interpretations 
given  the  maxim  by  Kant  and  Schopenhauer.  Earlier  writers, 


MAXIM  IN  PHILOSOPHY,  1775-1875  143 

as  we  have  seen,  have  conceived  of  self-knowledge  as  including 
a  man's  knowledge  of  his  duty  and  of  his  life-purpose,  and  of 
the  part  he  is  to  play  in  the  world;  and  they  have  recognized 
the  difficulty  of  always  realizing  one's  true  motives  and  of 
securing  an  entirely  objective  view  of  one's  self.  Yet  taken  in 
their  setting  and  as  a  part  of  the  entire  philosophy  of  Kant  and 
Schopenhauer,  the  passages  indicate  a  new  emphasis  upon 
knowing  the  fundamental  springs  of  conduct;  and  out  of  Kant's 
doctrine  of  duty  there  seems  to  have  grown  a  more  far-reaching 
influence  upon  the  meaning  attached  to  knowledge  of  self  than 
these  particular  passages,  taken  alone,  might  indicate. 

Baader  also  gives  the  maxim  an  ethical  interpretation  in  one 
of  his  letters,28  but  the  ethical  is  so  closely  akin  to  the  mystical 
in  his  conception  that  both  ideas  are  present  in  the  passage. 
He  writes : 

He  who  knows  the  right  does  it;  and  vice  versa,  he  who  does,  knows. 
We  are  always  seeking  after  truth,  but  what  is  really  Truth  has  come  forth 

already  in  our  activities Wouldst  thou  know  what  really  concerns 

thee,  what  the  living  truth  is,  search  thoroughly  thy  conduct,  how  thou 
art  acting  every  moment,  or  at  least  most  of  the  time.  Here  first  will  the 
true  light  arise  for  thee.  That  "Lerne  dich  selbst  kennen"  have  I  set  forth 
industriously  in  my  last  letter  in  a  somewhat  mystical  discussion,  for  I 
cannot  advance  three  steps  without  coming  upon  the  deepest  mystery  in 
myself.  Therefore  you  and  I  need  no  books,  no  uninterrupted  specula- 
tions, but  only  a  straight,  sharp  look  directed  into  our  inmost  selves  from 
time  to  time. 

As  we  have  said,  the  maxim  plays  a  very  negligible  part  in 
the  French  philosophical  literature  of  the  period.  It  occurs, 
however,  on  the  title-page  and  in  the  introductory  chapter  of 
Le  Baron  Massias'  Traite  de  Philosophic  Psycho-physiologique, 
and  there  is  a  possible  suggestion  of  it  in  Auguste  Comte's 
Catechisme  Positiviste.  Massias  alludes  to  it  in  connection  with 
his  discussion  of  the  definition  of  philosophy.29   He  defines  "phi- 


i44  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

losophy"  as:  "The  knowledge  of  man,  of  his  faculties  and  his 
relations,  having  for  its  end  the  perfection  of  his  Reason  and 
of  his  Will."  This  definition,  he  says,  is  derived  from  that  of 
the  ancients  as  expressed  in  their  term  "philosophy,"  "the  love 
of  wisdom";  and,  moreover,  the  definition  is  in  accord  with  the 
the  ancient  conception  in  that  no  distinction  is  made  between 
sagesse  and  "science,"  for  "they  have  combined  all  knowledge 
and  all  wisdom  in  this  maxim,  written  on  the  front  of  the 
temple  of  Delphi,  Know  Thyself."  In  Comte's  Catechisme 
Positiviste,  Clothilde  de  Vaux  and  Comte,  designated  as  "A 
Woman"  and  "A  Priest,"  are  discussing  positivism;  and  the 
priest  explains  that  positivism  and  theology  meet  at  one  point, 
for  since  the  end  of  human  life  is  the  conservation  and  perfec- 
tion of  the  Great  Being  whom  we  must  know  and  love  and 
serve,  and  since  he  functions  only  through  men,  it  is  necessary 
to  know  men  in  order  to  serve  him  aright.  Thus  positivism,  he 
claims,  crystallizes  irrevocably  the  fundamental  precept  of  the 
initial  theocracy — Connais-toi  pour  tfameliorer,  and  the  intel- 
lectual principle  is  linked  with  the  social  motive.  Positivism 
is  always  essentially  social,  he  says  further,  and  makes  moral 
science  depend  upon  the  observation  of  others — of  society — 
much  more  than  on  the  observation  of  one's  self.30 

A  few  of  the  Italian  philosophers  of  the  period  allude  to  the 
maxim,  but  without  extended  discussion.  Romagnosi  says  in 
the  Introduction  to  his  Che  Cosa  E  La  Mente  Sana?31  that 
Mother  Nature  surely  recommended  the  Nosce  te  ipsutn,  but 
she  did  not  promise  to  reveal  her  mystery  fully,  and  the  field 
of  the  knowledge  of  man  is  limited.  In  Galuppi's  Saggio  Filoso- 
fico*2  we  read  that  we  must  distinguish  between  the  intuitive 
and  the  reasoned  knowledge  of  our  own  spirit :  the  first  is  only 
a  simple  perception  of  that  which  happens  to  exist  in  us;  the 
second  inquires  into  all  the  different  functions  of  the  soul,  as 


MAXIM  IN  PHILOSOPHY,  1775-1875  145 

it  does  into  those  of  other  objects.  It  reflects  upon,  judges,  and 
reasons  about  the  faculties  of  one's  own  ego,  and  so  analyzes 
one's  spirit.  It  is  with  this  knowledge  gained  by  reflection  that 
the  celebrated  maxim  Conosci  te  stesso  is  concerned.  Mamiani 
in  his  Del  Rinovamento  della  Filosofia  Antica  Italiana33  speaks 
of  two  previous,  and,  as  he  thinks,  less  successful  attempts  at  a 
revival  of  philosophy — the  Socratic,  and  the  Alexandrian  or 
Neo-Platonist — and  he  adds  that  Socrates  toiled  hard  to  re- 
mind men  of  the  precept  of  common  sense  and  stored  away  a 
precious  seed  of  the  reformed  philosophy  in  that  saying  of  his, 
Y^cofli  aeavTov,  which,  besides  being  a  moral  precept,  includes  a 
precept  of  method — the  method  of  beginning  the  study  of  phi- 
losophy with  critical  psychology.  And  lastly,  Ventura  quotes 
the  maxim  in  the  Introduction  to  his  La  Filosofia  Cristiana,34 
where  he  deplores  the  rationalism  of  modern  philosophy.  Ac- 
cording to  the  Rationalists,  he  says,  man  is  but  a  beast  of  the 
earth  which  has  become  a  man  by  its  own  efforts.  This  animal- 
man  (they  claim)  was  dominated  by  the  desire  to  know  him- 
self; the  Nosce  te  ipsum  of  the  ancient  oracle  became  his  con- 
stant preoccupation.  By  searching  into  the  depths  of  his  own 
nature,  he  recognized  that  he  possessed  the  instinct  of  the 
supernatural  and  the  mysterious;  whereupon  he  came  to  in- 
vent god  and  his  worship— religion  and  its  mysteries.  As  a  mat- 
ter of  fact,  the  evolutionists  of  the  period  seldom,  if  ever,  cite 
the  maxim;  and  Ventura  is  merely  employing  it  as  a  convenient 
expression  for  self-examination  in  stating  the  Rationalistic 
theory — a  theory  of  which  he  heartily  disapproves.  Yet  the 
fact  that  it  should  even  occur  to  him  to  use  it  in  this  connection 
is  but  another  indication  of  the  varied  adaptability  of  the 
precept,  and  of  its  ever  living  familiarity  in  the  thoughts  of 
men. 


CHAPTER  IX 

TNaei  SEAT  TON  IN  GERMAN  AND  FRENCH 
LITERATURE  FROM  1775  TO  1875 

Outside  of  the  realm  of  philosophy,  yvoodt  aeavrov  is  cited  by 
only  a  few  of  the  authors  of  Germany's  golden  age;  but  it 
occurs  repeatedly  in  the  works  of  Goethe,  and  we  find  it  in 
the  prose  treatises  of  Schiller  and  Klinger,  and  later  in  a  story 
and  in  a  short  poem  by  Paul  Heyse.1  The  keynote  of  Goethe's 
attitude  toward  the  apothegm  is  suggested  in  that  beautiful 
dedication — the  Zueignung — to  his  poems.  He  pictures  him- 
self on  a  mountain-side  in  the  early  morning,  wrapped  in  a  mist 
illumined  with  radiance.  On  the  cloud  there  appears  to  him  a 
woman's  form — the  personification  of  Truth  and  giver  of 
Poesy — whom  he  recognizes  as  the  inspiration  of  his  life,  al- 
though he  cannot  call  her  name.  Sinking  to  earth  in  adoration, 
he  speaks  of  the  bliss  she  imparts  and  of  the  isolation  involved 
in  his  devotion  to  her.  She,  however,  reproves  his  spirit  of 
isolation,  reminding  him  of  his  human  weakness  and  of  his 
neglect  of  his  duty  to  his  fellow-men  while  thinking  himself 
their  superior,  and  bids  him  "Erkenne  dich,  leb'  mit  der  Welt 
in  Frieden."*  Thus  Goethe's  chief  premise  is  that  man  cannot 
come  to  know  himself  by  inward  contemplation,  but  only 
through  his  outward  contacts — through  his  relation  to  others 
and  his  part  in  the  world's  activities.2  He  says  in  his  Maximen 
und  Reflexionen: 

If  we  take,  then,  the  significant  saying  "Know  thyself,"  we  must  not 
interpret  it  in  an  ascetic  sense.  It  has  no  connection  with  the  self-knowl- 
edge of  our  modern  hypochondriacs,  humorists,  and  self-tormentors,  but 

*  Know  thyself,  live  with  the  world  in  peace. 

146 


GERMAN  AND  FRENCH,  1775-1875  147 

it  means  simply  "Give  a  certain  amount  of  consideration  to  yourself,  take 
notice  of  yourself,  so  that  you  may  become  aware  of  how  you  have  come 
to  stand  with  your  equals  and  the  world."  For  this  there  is  no  need  of 
psychological  torments.  Every  level-headed  man  knows  from  experience 
what  it  should  mean.  It  is  good  counsel,  which  in  practice  brings  the 
greatest  advantages  to  everyone.3 

And  in  a  previous  passage  of  the  same  work  he  asks  how  man 
can  learn  to  know  himself,  and  replies  in  answer  to  his  own 
question,  "Through  contemplation,  never;  but  in  truth  through 
activities.  Seek  to  do  thy  duty,  and  thou  knowest  likewise 
what  is  in  thee."4 

Goethe  discusses  the  maxim  again  in  his  essay  on  Natur 
und  Wissenschaftslehre  and  applies  it  to  his  own  habits  of  life. 
He  has  been  reading  a  favorable  criticism  of  his  work  in  Dr. 
Heinroth's  Anthropologic,  which  praises  him  for  his  ability  to 
look  at  things  objectively,  and  he  remarks  that  he  has  really 
sought  to  combine  the  objective  with  the  subjective  in  his 
work.  Then  he  goes  on  to  say: 

As  regards  this,  I  have  always  professed  from  of  old  that  that  great 
and  important-sounding  phrase  erkenne  dich  selbst!  merits  the  suspicion 
that  it  was  a  device  of  secretly  bound  priests,  who  confused  men  with  unat- 
tainable requirements  and  wanted  to  lead  them  away  from  the  activities 
of  the  outer  world  to  an  inner  false  contemplation.  Man  knows  himself 
only  in  so  far  as  he  knows  the  world,  of  which  he  becomes  aware  only  in 
himself,  and  he  becomes  aware  of  himself  only  in  it.  Each  new  object, 
if  looked  at  well,  opens  up  in  us  a  new  way  to  see  (ourselves). 

By  comparing  our  view  of  the  world  with  our  neighbor's,  he 
continues,  we  arrive  at  self-knowledge  more  nearly  than  we  can 
by  ourselves.  So  in  his  own  riper  years  he  has  paid  great  atten- 
tion to  seeing  how  far  others  know  him,  that  with  their  help, 
as  with  so  many  mirrors,  he  may  become  better  informed  con- 
cerning himself  and  his  own  inner  being.  It  is  the  sympathetic 
understanding  and  revelation  of  friends  that  he  looks  for,  how- 


148  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

ever,  not  the  prejudiced  estimate  of  his  enemies.5  In  his  essay 
on  Shakespeare,  also,  Goethe  recognizes  the  mingling  of  the 
objective  and  the  subjective  in  the  poet's  task,  but  with  a 
reversal  of  emphasis.  "The  highest  attainment  to  which  a  man 
can  come,"  he  declares,  "is  the  consciousness  of  his  own  specu- 
lations and  thoughts — that  knowing  of  himself  which  gives  him 
the  introduction  to  an  intimate  knowledge  of  other  people's 
thought."6  A  great  poet  most  nearly  attains  this  conscious- 
ness, he  would  have  us  believe,  and  so  is  in  a  position  to  reveal 
the  thoughts  of  others  to  themselves.  Apropos  of  relating  the 
maxim  to  himself,  there  is  an  interesting  little  discussion  of  it 
recorded  in  one  of  his  "Conversations  with  Eckermann,"7 
which  runs  as  follows: 

It  has  at  all  times  been  said  and  repeated,  that  man  should  strive  to 
know  himself.  This  is  a  singular  requisition,  with  which  no  one  complies 
or  indeed  ever  will  comply.  Man  is  by  all  his  senses  and  efforts  directed 
to  externals — to  the  world  around  him,  and  he  has  to  know  this  so  far, 
and  to  make  it  so  far  serviceable,  as  he  requires  for  his  own  ends.  It  is 
only  when  he  feels  joy  or  sorrow  that  he  knows  anything  about  himself, 
and  only  by  joy  or  sorrow  is  he  instructed  what  to  seek  and  what  to  shun.8 
Altogether,  man  is  a  darkened  being;  he  knows  not  whence  he  comes,  nor 
whither  he  goes;  he  knows  little  of  the  world,  and  least  of  himself.  I  know 
not  myself,  and  God  forbid  I  should!  But  what  I  wish  to  say  is  this,  that 
in  my  fortieth  year,  while  living  in  Italy,  I  became  wise  enough  to  know 
thus  much  of  myself,  that  I  liad  no  taste  for  plastic  art 9 

There  is  an  obvious  allusion  to  the  maxim  in  two  of 
Goethe's  little  "Sprichwortlich,"10  both  of  them  somewhat 
enigmatical.  The  first  reads : 

Erkenne  dich!  was  soil  das  heissen? 

Es  heisst:  Sei  nur!  und  sei  auch  nicht! 

Es  ist  eben  ein  Spruch  der  lieben  Weisen, 

Der  sich  in  der  Kiirze  widerspricht.* 

*  Know  thyself !  What  meaneth  that?  It  means:  only  Be!  and  alsonot-Be! 
It  is  even  a  saying  of  the  beloved  Wise,  which  in  its  brevity  contradicts  itself. 


GERMAN  AND  FRENCH,  1775-1875  149 

Evidently  the  poet  is  here  playing  with  the  philosophical  mean- 
ings attached  to  7pco0i  aeavrov.  "Sei  nur!"  may  refer  to  self- 
knowledge  as  a  synonym  for  self-consciousness — the  knowledge 
of  one's  existence,  which  is  the  basic  premise  of  most  philo- 
sophic systems.  But  full  self-knowledge  is  declared  impossible; 
knower  and  known  are  ever  like  the  opposite  poles  of  the 
magnet,  and  so  full  being  cannot  be  attained:  hence  the  ap- 
parent contradiction.  In  the  other  "Sprichwortlich"  he  ex- 
claims : 

Erkenne  dich! — was  hab'  ich  da  fur  Lohn? 
Erkenne  ich  mich,  so  muss  ich  gleich  da  von.* 

This  couplet  is  probably  to  be  taken  in  an  ethical  rather  than 
in  a  metaphysical  sense,  with  the  idea  that  knowledge  of  one's 
self  involves  a  sense  of  mission — the  losing  sight  of  self  in  the 
world's  activities;  although  it  may  refer  merely  to  the  fact  that 
the  sight  of  ourselves  as  we  are  is  so  unpleasant  that  we  try 
to  escape  from  it. 

The  thought  which  Goethe  emphasizes  in  most  of  the  fore- 
going prose  discussions  of  the  apothegm — that  man  can  know 
himself  only  through  his  relations  to  others  and  the  world — 
occurs  in  other  passages  in  which  the  reference  to  the  maxim 
is  less  patent.  In  the  Zahme  Xenien,  for  instance,  he  says  that 
no  man  can  know  himself — that  he  divides  himself  from  his 
ego  and  tests  every  day  what  he  is,  outwardly  and  clearly  in 
the  last  analysis,  and  what  he  was,  and  can,  and  may  be,"  And 
in  his  Tasso  he  makes  Antonio  say  :12 

Inwendig  lernt  kein  Mensch  sein  Innerstes 
Erkennen:  denn  er  misst  nach  eignem  Mass 
Sich  bald  zu  klein  und  leider  oft  zu  gross. 

*  Know  thyself!  What  have  I  there  to  reward  me?  Know  I  myself,  I 
straightway  must  lose  sight  thereof. 


150  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

Der  Mensch  erkennt  sich  nur  im  Mensch,  nur 
Das  Leben  lehrt  jedem,  was  er  sei.* 

In  his  Wilhelm  Meister's  Lehrjahre  Goethe  says  that  when  a 
man's  education  has  reached  a  certain  stage,  it  is  to  his  ad- 
vantage if  he  learn  to  lose  himself  in  the  greater  mass — if  he 
wills  to  live  for  others  and  forget  himself  in  the  performance 
of  his  duty;  and  he  adds,  "He  then  first  learns  to  know  himself, 
for  it  is  by  our  conduct  that  we  are  really  enabled  to  compare 
ourselves  with  others."13  And  in  a  little  poem  under  the  general 
title  of  "Aus  dem  Nachlass"  there  is  a  suggestion  that  a  knowl- 
edge of  self,  with  its  necessary  complement,  a  knowledge  of 
others,  may  serve  as  a  basis  for  universal  understanding:14 

Wer  sich  selbst  und  andre  kennt 
Wird  auch  hier  erkennen: 
Orient  und  Occident 
Sind  nicht  mehr  zu  trennen. 

Sinnig  zwischen  beiden  Welten 
Sich  zu  wiegen,  lass'  ich  gelten; 
Also  zwischen  Ost-  und  Westen 
Sich  bewegen,  sei's  zum  Bestenlf 

*His  inmost  nature  no  man  learns  to  know 
By  introspection:  still  he  rates  himself 
Sometimes  too  low,  but  oft,  alas!  too  high. 
Self-knowledge  comes  from  knowing  other  men: 
'Tis  life  reveals  to  each  his  genuine  worth." 

— Translated  by  Anna  Swanwick 

|He  who  knows  himself  and  others 
Herein  shall  know  what  follows,  too : 
That  Orient  and  Occident 
Stand  no  more  parted  to  our  view. 

In  my  musing,  I  admit, 
Between  both  worlds  I  sway; 
So  between  the  East  and  West 
Be  it  best  for  us  to  stray! 


GERMAN  AND  FRENCH,  1775-1875  151 

Schiller  quotes  the  maxim  but  once,  although  he  may  have 
had  it  in  mind  in  his  elegiac  couplet  entitled  "Der  Schliissel"  :IS 

Willst  du  dich  selber  erkennen,  so  sieh  wie  die  Andern  es  treiben, 
Willst  du  die  Andern  verstehn,  blick'  in  dein  eigenes  Herz.* 

His  direct  quotation  occurs  in  his  essay  Uber  den  Zusarnmen- 
hang  der  tierischen  Natur  des  Menschen  mit  seiner  geistigen, 
where  he  says  that  in  the  development  of  the  race,  man's  physi- 
cal needs  have  driven  him  to  exercise,  and  so  develop,  his  mental 
powers.  When  the  stage  of  meeting  mere  necessities  was  out- 
grown, luxury  grew  up,  and  in  its  train  came  the  pestilence. 
Then  man  searched  the  earth  for  healing  drugs,  and  over- 
coming his  superstition,  he  used  the  knife  to  discover  man's 
physical  structure.  The  passage  continues: 

So  must  the  least  help  us  to  reach  the  highest;  so  disease  and  death 
must  press  us  on  to  yvo>6i  aeavrov.  The  plague  produced  our  Hippocrates, 
and  our  Sydenhams,  as  war  gave  birth  to  generals;  and  we  have  to  thank 
the  most  devastating  disease  for  an  entire  reformation  of  our  medicinal 
methods.16 

In  this  unusual  passage  Schiller  is  evidently  applying  the 
maxim  in  the  sense  of  knowing  the  mind,  the  higher  nature, 
which  becomes  possible  as  a  result  of  evolutionary  develop- 
ment. That  he  represents  this  mental  development  as  coming 
through  the  effort  to  prevent,  not  alone  the  death  of  the  indi- 
vidual, but  the  recurrence  of  widespread  pestilence,  is  an  inter- 
esting instance  of  the  way  in  which  the  maxim  is  often  linked 
with  the  enlarging  social  outlook  of  the  age. 

Klinger  does  not  allude  to  the  maxim  in  his  plays,  but  there 
is  a  somewhat  lengthy  discussion  of  it  in  his  Betrachtungen  und 
Gedanken  uber  Verschiedene  Gegenstande  der  Welt  und  Litter  a- 

The  Key 

*Wouldst  thou  know  thy  self,  see  how  it  affects  others. 
Wouldst  thou  understand  others,  look  in  thine  own  heart. 


152  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

tur.17  "The  wise  man  has  preached  to  men  ever  since  there  have 
been  wise  men  and  foolish,  Kenne  dich  selbst!"  he  says,  and 
then  he  goes  on  to  say  further  that  the  reason  why  more  people 
do  not  follow  the  call  is  because  they  could  make  no  worse 
acquaintance  than  themselves;  and  perhaps  it  is  as  well  for 
society  that  many  men  do  not  learn  to  know  and  exercise  all 
their  powers.  It  is  important  to  know  how  and  after  what 
standard  man  has  set  up  the  moral  measuring-rod  with  which 
he  measures  himself;  and  while  the  mystery  of  man's  self  can- 
not be  gainsaid,  he  can  discover  something  at  times  by  laying 
the  measure  on  others  and  judging  himself  thereby.  Position, 
activity,  a  significant  role  in  the  shifting  world-drama,  impor- 
tant, dangerous  alliances  and  entanglements,  and  great  enter- 
prises surely  lead  to  correct  self-knowledge.  If  we  observe  most 
people  in  these  circumstances,  however,  we  find  that  their  self- 
knowledge  is  not  deep-seated — that  it  is  limited  to  merely  an 
estimate  of  their  skill  and  powers.  Thus  knowledge  of  self,  as 
Klinger  interprets  it,  ordinarily  consists  in  knowing  what  one 
can  do,  and  it  is  attained  by  playing  one's  part  in  the  activities 
of  the  world.  Like  Speroni,  he  thinks  that  such  self-knowledge, 
fully  realized,  might  prove  dangerous  for  society.  Yet  he  im- 
plies all  through  the  discussion  the  desirability  of  a  deeper  self- 
knowledge  than  we  ordinarily  have,  for  while  it  may  be  un- 
pleasant in  its  revelations,  it  leads  to  a  higher  wisdom. 

Heyse's  story  entitled Erkenne  dich  selbstl8br'mgs  out  the  dan- 
gers involved  in  insisting  that  theyouthful  mind  turn  its  thoughts 
inward  overmuch.  The  scene  of  the  story  is  laid  in  Florence, 
where  a  woman  happens  to  meet  one  day  at  a  coffee-house  a 
young  man  whom  she  has  known  previously  at  a  German  uni- 
versity. After  a  little,  they  take  a  walk  about  the  city  and 
down  by  the  banks  of  the  Arno,  where  they  seat  themselves, 
and  in  their  conversation  he  tells  the  story  of  his  life.  His 


GERMAN  AND  FRENCH,  1775-1875  153 

father,  it  seems,  was  a  wealthy  merchant — a  self-made  man. 
He  was  well  read  in  the  classics  and  versed  in  history;  but  inas- 
much as  he  lived  among  uneducated  people  and  had  cultivated 
his  higher  interests  in  the  face  of  opposition  from  his  family, 
he  grew  to  have  a  certain  sense  of  self-sufficiency;  and  this 
spirit  he  wished  to  bequeath  to  his  son.  He  was  impatient  of 
the  authority  of  tradition,  and  he  expressed  his  attitude  to  his 
son  with  the  single  saying,  Erkenne  dich  selbst.  He  asked 
nothing  of  the  boy  but  a  continual,  ruthless  self-examination; 
and  he  was  bitterly  opposed  to  indifference,  dreaming,  vague 
talking  in  platitudes,  and  casual  judgments.  As  soon  as  he  ob- 
served that  the  boy  thoughtlessly  repeated  something  that  he 
had  heard  or  read,  he  showed  him,  with  the  dialectical  sharp- 
ness which  was  characteristic  of  him,  that  the  opposite  was 
true;  and  then  when  he  saw  that  he  had  made  an  impression, 
he  let  the  subject  drop.  If  the  boy's  mind  was  vexed  with  help- 
lessness and  he  was  dumb  with  doubts  as  they  crowded  in  upon 
him,  the  father  would  break  off  and  say,  "Things  don't  matter. 
They  are  either  true  or  false — true  for  one  and  false  for  another. 
It  all  comes  back  to  you.  So  know  yourself."19  The  result  of 
this  insistence  upon  self-examination,  this  repression,  and  this 
endeavor  to  make  his  son  always  see  two  sides  of  a  question 
was  that  the  boy  lost  spirit  and  became  hesitant  and  distrust- 
ful of  himself  and  his  opinions.  It  is  a  sad  thing,  Heyse  says, 
when  a  man  sees  both  sides  of  a  question  at  the  beginning, 
instead  of  seeing  the  second  only  after  he  has  become  familiar 
with  the  first.  In  that  way  all  of  the  essential  reality  is  lost. 
It  is  as  if  one  were  looking  through  a  glass  cube,  and  imagining 
the  glass  defective.  We  finally  come  to  look  through  ourselves 
as  through  glass  and  miss  the  hidden  core  of  personality,  whose 
seeds  always  produce  new  powers  when  the  old  are  outworn. 
In  examining  ourselves  we  are  like  the  man  who  possessed  an 


154  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

inexhaustible  spring,  and  whose  curiosity  led  him  to  search  it 
with  a  torch;  whereupon  the  nymph  became  angry  because  the 
man  had  pried  into  her  secrets,  and  the  spring  was  dry  from 
that  hour.  Or  it  is  as  if  one  were  to  try  to  grasp  and  hold  with 
clenched  fingers  the  water  which  has  been  given  into  the  hollow 
of  his  hand.  To  sum  up  the  remainder  of  the  story  briefly, 
after  his  father's  death  Franz  had  come  to  Italy  in  a  desire  to 
get  away  from  himself — to  recover  himself.  He  saw  his  old 
friend  frequently  after  their  first  meeting;  and  one  night  at  a 
festival  he  became  attracted  to  two  people,  an  artist  and  his 
supposed  brother,  who  soon  became  his  friends  also.  Franz  was 
especially  drawn  to  the  so-called  brother,  who  turns  out  to  be 
the  artist's  sister  in  masquerade;  and  once  the  full  truth  is 
known,  his  irresolution  and  the  other  weak  traits  engendered 
by  his  peculiar  rearing  give  way  before  the  transforming  power 
of  love.  We  wish  that  Heyse  had  quoted  the  maxim  at  the 
end  of  the  story  also,  but  perhaps  he  expected  us  to  infer  from 
the  tale  itself  that  love  is  a  better  way  of  obeying  the  God's 
behest  than  constant  self-examination.  In  the  light  of  this  story 
we  may  read  disapproval  in  a  little  poem  of  Heyse's,  which  is 
likewise  entitled  "Erkenne  Dich  Selbst":20 

Wer's  wagen  darf  sich  selbst  zu  kennen, 
Den  muss  man  hochbegnadet  nennen; 
Die  meisten  waren  bestraft  genug, 
Wiirden  sie  je  aus  sich  selber  klug.* 

The  maxim  occurs  in  two  French  works  of  the  period — in 
Rodolphe  Topffer's  La  Bibliotheque  de  mon  Oncle  and  in  Alfred 
de  Musset's  Histoire  d'un  Merle  Blanc.  Topffer's  passage21 
shows  that  he  shares  in  the  disapproval  of  self-contemplation, 
so  marked  in  the  writings  of  Goethe  and  Heyse.  He  is  speaking 

*  Who  dares  venture  to  know  himself  must  be  considered  highly  blest. 
To  most  'twould  be  sure  punishment,  were  they  clever  enough  to  know. 


GERMAN  AND  FRENCH,  1775-1875  155 

of  La  Rochefoucauld's  book  of  Maxims,  and  calls  it  a  mirror  in 
which  a  man  may  see  himself  revealed  better  than  he  would 
have  thought  possible.  The  duke,  he  says,  has  followed  the 
maxim  of  Socrates  which  exhorts  a  man  "to  look  into  his  mind. 
Tvcodi  aeavTov  ....  signifies  nothing  else."  "As  for  me,"  he 
continues,  "I  seriously  doubt  if  there  is  much  to  be  gained  from 
this  habitual  contemplation.  In  many  things  it  is  better  to  be 
ignorant  of  one's  self.  Surely,  some  people  would  become  worse, 
if  they  knew  themselves  better.  Seeing  their  field  bereft  of  good 
grain,  they  would  seize  upon  the  idea  of  pulling  up  the  weeds." 
De  Musset's  story  Histoire  d'un  Merle  Blanc22  is  an  interest- 
ing piece  of  satire,  directed  against  the  would-be  literary  genius 
who  has  not  yet  found  himself.  A  young  blackbird  learns  that 
his  father  scorns  him  and  that  he  is  a  source  of  grief  to  his 
mother,  so  he  flies  off  with  a  carrier  pigeon,  who  tells  him  that 
he  is  a  carrier  pigeon  also.  Out-distanced  in  the  flight,  he  falls 
exhausted  in  a  field,  and  is  revived  by  a  Russian  magpie  and 
a  turtledove.  The  magpie  tells  him  that  he  is  a  Russian  magpie, 
and  he  turns  to  the  turtledove  to  see  if  she  agrees.  As  she 
hesitates,  he  bursts  out  with  the  exclamation,  "0  Socrates, 
what  an  admirable  precept  you  have  given  us,  but  difficult  to 
follow,  in  saying  Connais-toi  toi-meme!"  As  soon  as  he  tries  to 
sing,  the  magpie  leaves  him.  After  various  vicissitudes,  he  re- 
turns at  length  to  Paris,  to  find  his  parents  gone.  One  day  he 
happens  to  hear  someone  call  him  a  white  blackbird;  and  con- 
vinced that  he  is  unique,  he  writes  a  long  poem  about  himself 
and  his  experiences,  which  brings  him  renown  and  an  English 
blackbird  for  his  bride.  But  after  a  time  he  discovers  that  his 
feathers  are  only  painted !  He  resolves  to  give  up  trying  to  live, 
and  is  wafted  to  the  forest  of  Morfontaine,  where  the  nightin- 
gale is  singing  for  the  rose,  who  sleeps  unheeding.  De  Musset 
brings  the  maxim  into  this  story  quite  casually,  we  see,  but  it 
might  be  applied  to  the  whole  tale  and  help  to  point  the  satire. 


CHAPTER  X 

MAXIM  AND  THEME  IN  ENGLISH  AND  AMERICAN 
LITERATURE  FROM  1775  TO  1875 

While  the  English  literature  of  the  hundred  years  under 
consideration  falls  naturally  into  two  divisions — that  of  the 
Romantic  period,  extending  well  on  toward  the  middle  of  the 
nineteenth  century,  and  the  literature  of  the  Victorian  age — 
such  a  division  becomes  purely  arbitrary  as  far  as  the  interpre- 
tation of  yv&di  aeavTov  is  concerned;  and  so  does  any  separation 
of  American  from  English  literature.  The  maxim  occurs  in  dis- 
cussions of  varying  length  in  the  works  of  a  number  of  authors, 
both  prominent  and  obscure,  and  with  various  connotations 
— some  of  them  as  old  as  the  maxim  itself,  and  others  reflect- 
ing phases  of  the  newer  thought  of  the  modern  period.  For 
instance,  the  discussions  of  a  group  of  minor  English  authors 
— namely,  William  Richardson1  in  his  Philosophical  Analysis 
of  Shakespeare' 's  Characters,  Charles  Colton2  in  his  Lacon, 
Charles  Bucke3  in  his  Book  of  Human  Character,  Sir  William 
Hamilton4  in  his  essay  on  Oxford  as  It  Might  Be,  and  Tupper 
in  his  poem  on  "Self -Acquaintance," — might  as  well  have  been 
written  in  a  previous  century;  and  the  same  is  true  of  the 
discussion  in  three  unimportant  American  books — Thoughts  on 
Men,  Manners,  and  Things  by  Anthony  Grumbler,5  The  Probe 
by  L.  Carroll  Judson,6  and  The  Aristocrat,  sl  novel  "by  the 
author  of  Zoe."1  On  the  other  hand,  the  influence  of  German 
philosophy  is  evident  in  the  metaphysical  interpretation  given 
to  the  precept  by  Coleridge  and  in  the  ethical  forces  attached 
to  it  by  both  Coleridge  and  Matthew  Arnold;  while  Goethe's 

156 


ENGLISH  AND  AMERICAN,  1775-1875  157 

insistence  upon  avoiding  self-examination  and  learning  to  know 
ourselves  through  association  with  others  is  echoed  in  the  writ- 
ings of  Carlyle  and  Ruskin.  In  addition  to  the  above-men- 
tioned works,  the  maxim  serves  as  the  title  of  poems  by  Emer- 
son ;  by  James  Henry,8  successful  physician  and  classical  scholar 
of  Dublin;  by  Jones  Very,  that  mystical  American  clergyman 
and  poet,  the  first  publication  of  whose  poems9  Emerson  so 
helped  to  further;  and  by  one  or  two  other  minor  poets  whose 
names  are  now  scarcely  known  at  all.10  It  is  mentioned  inci- 
dentally in  Browning's  Ring  and  the  Book,11  and  in  Lowell's 
Bigelow  Papers;™  and  it  is  quoted  in  passages  fresh  in  interest 
in  Southey's  The  Doctor,  in  George  Eliot's  Felix  Holt,  in  Low- 
ell's Cambridge  Thirty  Years  Ago,  and  in  two  less-known  works 
— The  Artist's  Book  of  Fables  by  James  North  cote,  friend  and 
pupil  of  Joshua  Reynolds  and  a  writer  on  art,13  and  an  essay 
on  Literary  Clubs  by  William  Matthews,  a  Boston  lawyer, 
editor,  and  writer,  for  several  years  professor  of  English  at  the 
University  of  Chicago.  Besides  these  passages  which  are  direct- 
ly connected  with  the  apothegm,  the  phraseology  of  self-knowl- 
edge occurs  with  significant  meaning  not  only  in  other  works 
by  some  of  the  authors  mentioned  above,  but  in  the  poems  of 
Cowper,  Byron,  Shelley,  Tennyson,  Richard  Henry  Dana, 
Whittier,  J.  G.  Holland,  and  Edward  Rowland  Sill,  in  Kings- 
ley's  Alton  Locke,  and  in  certain  of  the  stories  of  Hawthorne. 
Pictures  illustrating  the  maxim  serve  as  the  frontispiece  of  an 
English  translation  of  Aphorisms  on  Man  by  John  Casper 
Lavater  of  Zuric,14  and  of  an  American  translation  of  Baron 
d'Hollbach's  System  of  Nature. IS  The  former  picture  represents 
a  woman  wrapped  in  the  clouds  of  heaven  extending  a  large 
tablet  with  the  words  Tv&di  Heavrov  inscribed  thereon,  to 
meet  the  upturned  gaze  of  a  seated  youth.  The  latter  picture, 
which  we  are  told  was  drawn  for  the  Free  Inquirers'  Family 


158  .  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

Library,  is  entitled  " Reason  Enlightening  the  Nations."  It 
represents  a  statue  of  Reason  unrolling  a  scroll  before  the  eyes 
of  a  multitude  of  people.  Behind  her  stands  an  eagle  holding 
in  its  beak  the  watchword  "Free  Discussion";  and  the  scroll 
bears  the  inscription  "Truth  is  Eternal.  Tv&di  aeavrbv." 

The  maxim  is  used  with  its  earliest  force  of  "Know  your 
measure"  in  one  of  James  Henry's  poems  entitled  uTv&6l 
veavrbv" : 

So  thou  hast  been  at  Delphi,  yet  not  learned 

Thou'rt  not  a  baker,  but  a  lump  of  dough 

Leavened  with  one  part  pleasure,  three  parts  pain, 

Kneaded,  roll'd  out,  and  scored  and  pricked  all  over, 

Baked,  sliced,  chewed,  swallowed,  cast  into  the  draught, 

Not  doubting,  all  the  while,  but  thou'rt  a  baker. 

Go  back  to  Delphi,  fool,  and  say  I  sent  thee, 

Not  to  consult  the  oracle,  but  read 

The  inscription  on  the  shrine;  go  back  to  Delphi.16 

It  is  in  this  sense  of  knowing  one's  self  that  Carlyle  advises 
the  industrial  lords  to  compare  themselves  with  the  man  of 
genius — the  man  who  possesses  more  clearly  than  others  the 
presence  of  God,  which  is  dim  and  potential  in  all  men — the 
man  of  high  soul,  who  cares  not  for  wealth,  but  for  the  eternal 
values.  "Wouldst  thou  commune  with  such  a  one?"  he  asks. 
"Be  his  real  peer,  then;  Does  that  lie  in  thee?  Know  thyself 
and  thy  real  and  thy  apparent  place,  and  know  him  and  his 
real  and  apparent  place,  and  act  in  some  noble  conformity  with 
all  that."17  Modesty  is  "the  measuring  virtue"  in  Ruskin's 
Queen  of  the  Air;lS  and  she 

arrives  at  great  results  with  her  yard-measure — cutting  her  dress  always 
according  to  the  silk,  so  that,  consulting  her  carefully  of  a  morning,  men 
get  to  know  not  only  their  income  but  their  in-being — to  know  themselves, 
that  is,  in  a  gauger's  manner,  round,  and  up  and  down — surface  and  con- 
tents; what  is  in  them  and  what  may  be  got  out  of  them;  and,  in  fine, 
their  entire  canon  of  weight  and  capacity.19 


ENGLISH  AND  AMERICAN,  1775-1875  159 

Other  familiar  uses  of  the  maxim  occur,  as  we  have  said, 
in  the  Introduction  to  William  Richardson's  Philosophical 
Analysis  of  Shakespeare' 's  Characters,  where  it  is  applied  to 
"discovering  the  capacity  and  extent  of  our  faculties,"  to  a 
discovery  of  our  habits  and  propensities,  and  to  the  study  of 
human  nature,  "accustoming  us  to  turn  our  thoughts  inwards 
....  which  facilitates  self-examination  and  renders  it  habitu- 
al."20 Charles  Bucke,  in  the  rambling  little  chapter  of  his  Book 
of  Human  Character  entitled  "Nosce  Teipsum,"  applies  it  to  a 
knowledge  of  our  faults  and  virtues,  and  says  further  in  his 
closing  paragraph : 

"Know  Thyself!"  This  is  indeed  a  comprehensive  sentence.  For  it  is 
not  only  to  know  our  relative  situation  in  society,  our  manners,  our  wants, 
our  superfluities,  our  desires,  and  our  capacities;  the  force  of  our  passions, 
our  probable  and  real  opportunities;  but  our  duties  in  their  several  parts; 
and  what  is,  perhaps,  still  more  difficult,  our  relative  situation  in  the 
universe.21 

The  little  essay  on  "Examination"  in  Carroll  Judson's  Probe,22 
with  "Know  Thyself"  as  its  subtitle,  repeats  the  old  common- 
places about  seeing  the  mote  in  our  neighbor's  eye,  our  failure 
to  know  our  own  powers  and  propensities,  especially  our  pro- 
pensity to  evil,  and  our  overestimate  of  our  moral  strength. 
And  Anthony  Grumbler's  paragraph  entitled  "Know  Thyself" 
pictures  the  man  who  is  the  embodiment  of  the  faults  and 
habits  which  he  deprecates  in  others  because  he  fails  to  reflect 
"on  the  numerous  springs  and  motions  of  his  own  mind."23 

The  specific  application  of  the  maxim  to  a  knowledge  of  the 
physical  man  occurs  in  Jones  Very's  poem  entitled  "Know 
Thyself" — a  poem  suggested,  as  he  tells  us,  by  hearing  Dr. 
M 's  lectures  on  the  human  body : 

Who  with  dull  mind  can  view  man's  wondrous  frame, 
And  not  with  deepest  reverence  and  awe? 
For  from  the  hand  of  God  at  first  it  came, 


160  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

And  from  His  breath  did  life  and  motion  draw. 

The  bones,  which  show  such  marvellous  strength  and  skill, 

The  blood,  which  circulates  through  every  vein, 

The  ever-moving  lungs  the  air  doth  fill, 

The  pulsing  heart,  the  all-directing  brain. 

What  higher  knowledge  than  thyself  to  know? 

Though  countless  objects  gain  our  time  and  thought, 

On  our  own  frame  we  scarce  a  thought  bestow, 

The  body  thus  so  marvellously  wrought; 

The  type  of  that  which  shall  immortal  be, 

From  pain,  disease,  and  death  forever  free.24 

The  connotations  of  the  maxim  thus  far  indicated  in  this 
chapter  are  almost  entirely,  such  as  we  find  commonly  in  Greek 
literature  and  in  numerous  subsequent  discussions.  Certain  of 
these  old  forces,  however,  are  sometimes  given  an  extended 
meaning  in  nineteenth-century  literature,  and  this  is  true  also 
of  the  phrase  "know  thyself"  apart  from  any  allusion  to  the 
precept.25  Byron  uses  the  phrase  in  his  Cain  to  indicate  man's 
recognition  of  his  littleness  in  comparison  with  the  vastness  of 
the  universe.  Lucifer  has  taken  Cain  off  through  space  and 
shown  him  marvelous  things;  and  when  Cain  wishes  to  know 
why  he  has  done  this,  Lucifer  asks : 

Didst  thou  not  require 
Knowledge?  And  have  I  not,  in  what  I  show'd, 
Taught  thee  to  know  thyself?26 

Cain  replies: 

Alas!  I  seem 
Nothing. 

Whereupon  Lucifer  says : 

And  this  should  be  the  human  sum 
Of  knowledge,  to  know  mortal  nature's  nothingness; 
Bequeath  that  science  to  thy  children,  and 
'Twill  spare  thee  many  tortures. 


ENGLISH  AND  AMERICAN,  1775-1875  161 

Shelley  pictures  man's  relative  situation  in  the  universe  effec- 
tively in  his  "Adonais,"  where  he  uses  the  phrase  "know  thy- 
self' in  the  sense  of  knowing  one's  mortal  limitations,  as 
contrasted  with  the  untrammeled  range  of  Keats'  immortal 
spirit : 

Who  mourns  for  Adonais?  Oh  come  forth, 

Fond  wretch!  and  know  thyself  and  him  aright. 

Clasp  with  thy  panting  soul  the  pendulous  earth; 

As  from  a  centre,  dart  thy  spirit's  light 

Beyond  all  worlds,  until  its  spacious  might 

Satiate  the  void  circumference :  then  shrink 

Even  to  a  point  within  our  day  and  night; 

And  keep  thy  heart  light  lest  it  make  thee  sink 

When  hope  has  kindled  hope,  and  lured  thee  to  the  brink.27 

Ruskin  uses  the  maxim  in  the  sense  of  knowing  our  high 
worth  and  dignity,  together  with  the  connotation  of  knowing 
the  limits  of  our  wisdom,  in  his  chapter  on  "Wisdom  and  Folly 
in  Science"  in  The  Eagle' }s  Nest.  He  quotes  a  passage  from 

Blake- 
Doth  the  eagle  know  what  is  in  the  pit? 
Or  wilt  thou  go  ask  the  mole? — 

to  illustrate  the  fact  that  each  creature  has  its  own  appropriate 
kind  of  knowledge  which  it  is  compelled  by  instinct  to  learn, 
and  that  the  "glory  of  the  higher  creatures  is  in  ignorance  of 
what  is  known  to  the  lower."  And  he  goes  on  to  say: 

But  man  has  the  choice  of  stooping  in  science  beneath  himself,  and 
striving  in  science  beyond  himself;  and  the  "Know  thyself"  is  for  him, 
not  a  law  to  which  he  must  in  peace  submit;  but  a  precept  which  of  all 
others  is  the  most  painful  to  understand  and  the  most  difficult  to  fulfil. 
Most  painful  to  understand  and  humiliating;  and  this  alike,  whether  it 
be  held  to  refer  to  the  knowledge  beneath  us,  or  above.  For,  singularly 

enough,  men  are  always  most  conceited  of  the  meanest  science 

It  is  just  those  who  grope  with  the  mole,  and  cling  with  the  bat,  who  are 
vainest  of  their  sight  and  of  their  wings. 


1 62  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

In  the  following  section  Ruskin  asks  if  "Know  thyself"  can 
mean  sophia,  conceived  as  the  "noble  wisdom,"  which  has  to 
do  with  surpassing  and  divine  things;  and  if  "by  so  much  as 
we  are  forbidden  to  bury  ourselves  in  the  mole's  earth-heap," 
we  are  "urged  to  raise  ourselves  towards  the  stars."28  But 
sophia,  he  concludes  at  length,  is  in  the  last  analysis  unselfish: 
"the  faculty  which  recognizes  in  all  things  their  bearing  upon 
life,  in  the  entire  sum  of  life  that  we  know,  both  bestial  and 
human,"  and  which  "concentrates  its  interest  and  its  power 
on  Humanity."  And  he  argues  further: 

It  is  as  little  the  part  of  a  wise  man  to  reflect  much  on  the  nature  of  be- 
ings above  him,  as  of  beings  beneath  him.  It  is  immodest  to  suppose  that  he 
can  conceive  of  the  one,  and  degrading  to  suppose  that  he  should  be  busied 
with  the  other.  To  recognize  his  everlasting  inferiority,  and  his  everlast- 
ing greatness;  to  know  himself  and  his  place;  to  be  content  to  submit  to 
God  without  understanding  Him;  and  to  rule  the  lower  creation  with 
sympathy  and  kindness  ....  this  ....  is  to  be  ...  .  wise  for  himself.29 

Ultimately,  then,  the  maxim  in  this  passage  means  for  Ruskin 
to  know  man — humanity — man's  own  realm  as  distinguished 
from  the  animal  world  beneath  him,  too  exclusive  a  knowledge 
of  which  tends  to  breed  the  conceit  of  wisdom  on  the  one  hand, 
and  too  low  a  sense  of  worth  on  the  other — and  as  distinguished 
from  the  purely  spiritual  world,  which  speculative  thought  can 
never  compass,  because  it  is  beyond  the  reach  of  man's  knowl- 
edge. Moreover,  since  "Know  thyself"  is  Sophia's  word  to  man, 
and  sophia  is  unselfish  as  well  as  modest,  the  inevitable  end  of 
self-knowledge  is  ethical — knowledge  for  the  service  of  mankind. 
The  application  of  the  apothegm  to  a  knowledge  of  the  mind 
is  used  in  an  unusual  sense  in  George  Eliot's  Felix  Holt,  for 
she  connects  it  with  the  then  popular  science  of  phrenology. 
Felix  tells  the  minister  of  his  unsatisfactory  experiences  with 
a  phrenologist  at  Glasgow,  and  the  minister  replies: 


ENGLISH  AND  AMERICAN,  1775-1875  163 

I  have  had  my  own  head  explored,  with  somewhat  similar  results.  It 
is,  I  fear,  but  a  vain  show  of  fulfilling  the  heathen  precept  "Know  thyself," 
and  too  often  leads  to  a  self -estimate  which  will  subsist  in  the  absence 
of  that  fruit  by  which  alone  the  quality  of  the  tree  is  made  evident.30 

It  is  Coleridge,  as  we  have  said,  who  uses  the  maxim  in 
connection  with  speculative  philosophy.  In  his  Biographia 
Literaria31  he  reminds  those  who  have  a  mistaken  conception 
of  metaphysics  that  "as  long  as  there  are  men  in  the  world 
to  whom  the  yvoiBi  aeavrbv  is  an  instinct  and  a  command  from 
their  own  nature,  so  long  will  there  be  metaphysicians  and 
metaphysical  speculations";  and  in  one  of  his  essays  in  The 
Friend  he  says : 

Under  the  tutorage  of  scientific  analysis,  haply  first  given  to  him 
<man>  by  express  revelation, 

E  caelo  descendit  Tvcodi  aeavrov, 
he  separates  the  relations  that  are  wholly  creatures  of  his  own  abstracting 
and  comparing  intellect,  and  at  once  discovers  ....  that  the  reality,  the 
objective  truth,  of  the  objects  he  has  been  adoring,  derives  its  whole  and 
sole  evidence  from  an  obscure  sensation  ....  which  compels  him  to 
contemplate  as  without  and  independent  of  himself  what  yet  he  could 
not  contemplate  at  all,  were  it  not  for  a  modification  of  his  own  being.32 

In  his  essay  on  The  Prometheus  of  Aeschylus,  Coleridge  enters 
into  a  metaphysical  explanation  of  the  myth.  He  thinks  that 
Aeschylus  "adapted  the  secret  doctrine  of  the  mysteries"  and 
that  "the  ground-work  of  the  Aeschylean  my  thus  is  laid  in  the 
definition  of  idea  and  law  as  correlatives  that  mutually  inter- 
pret each  other,"  Zeus  representing  vojjlos,  and  Prometheus, 
idea."  Before  applying  this  metaphysical  doctrine  to  the 
interpretation  of  the  myth,  he  discusses  at  some  length  what 
he  conceives  to  be  the  Greek  conception,  showing  how  Greek 
philosophy,  like  the  Phoenician,  regards  the  creative  impulse 
as  implicit  in  the  world  which  is  created,  and  how  the  original 
"pro thesis"  became  polarized — became  thesis  and  antithesis, 


i64  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

law  and  idea,  co-existent  and  co-essential,  the  vo/jlos  being  essen- 
tially idea  in  substance  and  having  for  its  highest  product  the 
understanding,  while  idea  in  its  development  produces  an 
"analogon"  or  image  (not  a  real  product,  since  it  exists  as  idea 
only  as  it  continues  to  be  both  subject  and  object),  which  is 
self -consciousness.  At  this  point  in  the  discussion  Coleridge 
remarks : 

If  the  preceding  disquisition  ....  should  answer  no  other  purpose, 
it  will  still  have  been  neither  purposeless,  nor  devoid  of  utility,  should  it 
only  lead  us  to  sympathize  with  the  strivings  of  the  human  intellect, 
awakened  to  the  infinite  importance  of  the  inward  yva>0i  o-eavTov.33 

In  these  three  passages  Coleridge  is  seen  to  give  the  maxim  a 
purely  metaphysical  import,  but  in  an  earlier  passage  in  the 
Biographia  Literaria  he  shows  that  he  considers  its  force  to  be 
at  once  practical,  or  ethical,  as  well  as  speculative: 

The  postulate  of  philosophy  and  at  the  same  time  the  test  of  philo- 
sophic capacity  is  no  other  than  the  Heaven-descended  Know  Thyself 
....  and  this  at  once  practically  and  speculatively.  For  as  philosophy 
is  neither  a  science  of  the  reason  or  understanding  only,  nor  merely  a 
science  of  morals,  but  the  Science  of  Being  altogether,  its  primary  ground 
can  be  neither  merely  speculative  nor  merely  practical,  but  both  in  one.34 

The  end  of  metaphysical,  or  speculative,  self-knowledge  with 
Coleridge,  as  with  the  Neo-Platonists  and  the  Mystics,  is  the 
mergence  of  the  soul  with  the  eternal,  for  he  states  farther  on, 
"We  begin  with  the  /  Know  Myself  in  order  to  end  with  the 
absolute  /  am.  We  proceed  from  the  self  in  order  to  lose  and 
find  all  self  in  God."35 

Shelley,  in  "The  Triumph  of  Life,"  includes  the  philosophers 
among  the  captives  chained  to  Life's  car,  because  they  have 
not,  like  the  sacred  few,  "touched  the  earth  with  living  flame." 
They  have  not  known  their  souls — have  not  solved  the  mystery 


ENGLISH  AND  AMERICAN,  1775-1875  165 

of  life — and  so  they  have  become  Life's  captives,  not  her  con- 
querors: 

The  wise, 

The  great,  the  unforgotten, — they  who  wore 
Mitres  and  helms  and  crowns,  or  wreaths  of  light, 
Signs  of  thought's  empire  over  thought:  their  lore 

Taught  them  not  this,  to  know  themselves;  their  might 

Could  not  repress  the  mystery  within, 

And,  for  the  morn  of  truth  they  feigned,  deep  night 

Caught  them  ere  evening.36 

It  is  chiefly  in  the  sense  of  knowing  one's  soul  that  Matthew 
Arnold  cites  the  precept.  In  his  Literature  and  Dogma  he  ap- 
plies it  to  the  teaching  of  Christianity,  connecting  it  with 
fjLeTavoia,  which  with  Christ  was  not  repentance  of  sins  alone 
but  "the  setting  up  of  an  immense  new  inward  movement  for 
obtaining  one's  rule  of  life  ....  a  change  in  the  inner  man. 
....  It  was  the  introduction,  in  morals  and  religion,  of  the 
famous  know  thyself  of  the  Greeks."37  The  maxim  means 
"Know  your  soul"  in  the  wider  application  of  the  term  in  his 
essay  entitled  "My  Countrymen,"  published  in  his  Friend- 
ship's Garland,  and  in  a  similar  passage  in  Culture  and  Anarchy. 
In  "My  Countrymen"  he  writes: 

The  old  recipe,  to  think  a  little  more  and  bustle  a  little  less  seems  to 
me  still  the  best  recipe  to  follow.  So  I  take  comfort  when  I  find  The 
Guardian  reproaching  me  with  having  no  influence;  for  I  know  what  influ- 
ence means, — a  party,  practical  proposals,  action;  and  I  say  to  myself, 
"Even  suppose  I  could  get  some  followers  and  assemble  them  ....  in 
a  committee-room  in  some  inn;  what  on  earth  should  I  say  to  them?  .... 
I  could  only  propose  the  old  Socratic  commonplace  Know  Thyself;  and 
how  black  they  would  all  look  at  that!"38 

The  passage  in  Culture  and  Anarchy  reads: 

I  do  not  wish  to  see  men  of  culture  asking  to  be  entrusted  with  power; 
indeed,  I  have  freely  said,  that  in  my  opinion  the  speech  most  proper,  at 


166  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

present,  for  a  man  of  culture  to  make  to  a  body  of  his  fellow  countrymen 
who  get  him  into  a  committee  room,  is  Socrates'  Know  thyself!  and  this  is 
not  a  speech  to  be  made  by  men  wanting  to  be  entrusted  with  power.39 

The  force  of  the  maxim  in  these  passages  becomes  clearer  as 
we  read  the  entire  essays  in  which  they  occur.  In  "My  Coun- 
trymen" Arnold  contrasts  the  smug  self-satisfaction  of  middle- 
class  England  with  her  wealth  and  industry  and  commercial 
power,  divorced  from  any  "love  of  the  things  of  the  mind"  and 
"love  of  beautiful  things,"  with  foreign  opinion  of  England's 
waning  influence.  From  holding  a  leading  place  among  the  na- 
tions in  the  early  part  of  the  nineteenth  century,  when  the 
times  called  for  a  great  aristocratical  power,  backed  by  the 
wealth  and  industry  of  the  middle  class,  she  has  sunk  to  third 
place,  he  contends,  because  she  has  continued  to  live  for  ma- 
terial ends  and  let  the  great  stream  of  human  progress  pass 
her  by.  For  the  spirit  of  the  new  era,  in  which  she  has  been 
outstripped  by  France  and  America,  has  for  its  task  "the  work 
of  making  human  life,  hampered  by  a  past  which  it  has  out- 
grown, more  natural  and  rational."40  If  England  is  to  recover 
herself  and  keep  abreast  of  the  world's  progress,  it  is  the  busi- 
ness of  her  politicians  to  bring  a  wider  intelligence  to  bear  upon 
the  situation  before  them,  and  "to  set  their  desires  on  introduc- 
ing, with  time,  a  little  more  soul  and  spirit  into  the  too,  too 
solid  flesh  of  English  Society."41  In  Culture  and  Anarchy  he 
dwells  at  length  upon  the  distinction  between  Hellenism  and 
Hebraism,  the  one  placing  its  initial  emphasis  upon  thinking, 
and  the  other  upon  doing — upon  moral  earnestness,  that  is, 
upon  conscience  and  self -conquest.  Hebraism,  he  says  in  sub- 
stance, and  its  more  spiritual  and  attractive  offshoot,  Chris- 
tianity, carried  humanity  forward  to  a  better  knowledge  of 
itself  at  the  time  when  humanity  needed  its  stimulus — its 
strengthening  moral  fiber — of  conscience  and  effort;  but  there 


ENGLISH  AND  AMERICAN,  1775-1875  167 

came  a  time  when  humanity  was  ready  to  receive  Hellenism 
also,  with  its  spontaneity  of  consciousness  and  its  endeavor  to 
see  things  as  they  are — its  quickening  power  of  thought  and 
its  desire  to  "make  Reason  and  the  will  of  God,"  as  expressed 
in  the  universal  order,  prevail  in  human  society.  This  rising 
tide  of  Hellenism,  added  to  the  moral  force  of  Christianity,  is 
carrying  men  toward  a  still  better  knowledge  of  themselves 
and  the  world;  but  in  England  the  cross-current  of  Puritanism 
has  retarded  the  progress  of  Hellenism;  Englishmen  are  living 
too  much  for  action  and  holding  to  fixed  tenets  of  religion, 
instead  of  letting  Hellenism  have  its  way.  So  it  is  that  the 
man  of  culture — the  advocate  of  Hellenism — of  "endeavoring 
to  make  Reason  and  the  Will  of  God  prevail,"  were  he  to  find 
himself  in  a  group  of  politicians,  whose  sole  interest  is  in  action 
and  power,  could  only  remind  them  of  the  motto  of  Hellenism, 
"Know  thyself" — a  motto  which  in  practice  includes  all  that 
culture  stands  for — in  other  words,  a  knowledge  of  the  soul  in 
both  its  spiritual  and  its  ethical  relations.  Hence  with  Arnold 
the  Delphic  "Know  thyself"  becomes  the  message  of  the  hour 
— a  message  of  the  inseparability  of  the  higher  knowledge  and 
true  service  to  men. 

Lowell  uses  the  maxim  of  knowing  one's  soul,  but  in  the 
rather  general  and  practical  sense,  in  his  Cambridge  Thirty 
Years  Ago.  He  is  speaking  of  European  travel  and  advising 
that  the  traveler  go  abroad  after  he  has  reached  the  age  of 
thirty,  when  his  mind  has  become  mature  and  he  can  judge 
of  what  he  sees  in  the  light  of  his  past  study  and  experience. 
And  he  gives  the  following  reason  for  this  advice : 

A  man  should  have  travelled  thoroughly  round  himself  and  the  great 
terra  incognita  just  outside  and  inside  his  own  threshold,  before  he  under- 
takes voyages  of  discovery  to  other  worlds.  Let  him  first  thoroughly  ex- 
plore the  strange  country  laid  down  on  the  map  as  SEAYTON;  let  him 
look  down  into  its  craters,  and  find  whether  they  be  burnt-out  or  only 


168  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

smouldering;  let  him  know  between  the  good  and  evil  fruits  of  its  pas- 
sionate tropics;  let  him  experience  how  healthful  are  its  serene  and  high- 
lying  table-lands;  let  him  be  many  times  driven  back  (till  he  wisely  consent 
to  be  baffled)  from  its  speculative  inquisitive  northwest  passages  that 
lead  mostly  to  the  dreary  solitudes  of  a  sunless  world,  before  he  thinks 
himself  morally  equipped  for  travels  to  more  distant  regions.42 

Emerson's  rather  long  poem  entitled  Tvoodt,  Xeavrov  is  more  mys- 
tical.43 It  gives  expression  to  the  thought  that  God's  dwelling- 
place  is  within  us,  but  we  do  not  know  him  because  of  the 
clouds  of  sin  that  veil  him  from  our  consciousness: 

God  dwells  in  thee: 

It  is  no  metaphor  nor  parable, 

It  is  unknown  to  thousands  and  to  thee; 

Yet  there  is  God. 

He  is  in  thy  world 

But  thy  world  knows  him  not. 


And  thou  art  stranger  to  thy  Guest, 
And  know'st  not  what  thou  dost  invest. 
The  clouds  that  veil  his  life  within 
Are  thy  thick-woven  webs  of  sin, 

Shall  I  ask  wealth  or  power  of  God,  who  gave 
An  image  of  himself  to  be  my  soul? 
As  well  might  swilling  ocean  ask  a  wave, 
Or  the  starred  firmament  a  dying  coal, — 
For  that  which  is  in  me  lives  in  the  whole.44 

And  it  is  probably  self-knowledge  in  the  deeper,  though  not 
necessarily  mystical,  sense  that  Tennyson  has  in  mind  in  the 
familiar  lines  of  his  Oenone: 

Self-reverence,  self-knowledge,  self-control, 
These  three  alone  lead  life  to  sovereign  power.45 

The  old  idea  that  no  one  has  ever  really  obeyed  the  god's 
behest  occurs  in  James  Northcote's  " Application"  of  the  fable 


ENGLISH  AND  AMERICAN,  1775-1875  169 

of  The  Magpie  and  the  Owl,  and  in  Charles  Col  ton's  Lacon. 
Northcote  says :  # 

The  aphorism  of  "nosce  teipsum"  (know  thyself)  is  soon  spoken;  but 
then  it  is  a  long  while  in  accomplishing.  Gracian  was  placed  among  the 
seven  wise  men  for  having  been  the  author  of  this  maxim;  "but  never," 
replies  the  sage,  "was  any  one  placed  there  for  having  performed  it."46 

And  Colton  remarks: 

Tvu)Ql  creavrov,  know  thyself,  is  a  precept  which  we  are  informed  de- 
scended from  Heaven The  same  authority  has  not  been  bold 

enough  to  affirm  that  it  had  yet  reached  the  earth;  and  from  all  that  we 
can  observe,  we  might  be  pardoned  for  suspecting  that  this  celestial 
maxim  was  still  on  its  journey.® 

Coleridge  has  a  poem,  entitled  "Self -Knowledge"  in  some  edi- 
tions, which  unlike  his  prose  discussions,  expresses  the  futility 
of  man's  attempting  to  know  himself.  He  quotes  as  a  heading 
the  "E  caelo  descendit  yv&di  veavTov"  of  Juvenal — a  favorite 
verse  with  him,  evidently — and  then  he  writes : 

TvdOi  o-eavTov !  and  is  this  the  prime 

And  heaven-sprung  adage  of  the  olden  time! 

Say,  canst  thou  make  thyself? — Learn  first  that  trade; — 

Haply  thou  mayst  know  what  thyself  had  made. 

What  hast  thou,  Man,  that  thou  dar'st  call  thine  own? 

What  is  there  in  thee,  Man,  that  can  be  known? 

Dark  fluxion,  all  unfixable  by  thought, 

A  phantom  dim  of  past  and  future  wrought, 

Vain  sister  of  the  worm, — life,  death,  soul,  clod — 

Ignore  thyself,  and  strive  to  know  thy  God! 

Carlyle  is  emphatic  in  his  outspoken  disapproval  of  the 
maxim,  but  this  is  because  he  interprets  it  subjectively — as  an 
injunction  to  become  introspective,  contemplative — whereas 
his  own  gospel  is  a  gospel  of  objective  activity.  Consequently 
he  sets  up  an  antithesis  between  knowing  one's  self  and  know- 
ing what  one  can  do,  apparently  oblivious  of  the  fact  that 
with  the  Greeks  of  old,  and  with  many  a  man  since,  knowing 


170  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

what  one  can  do  is  an  important  phase  of  self-knowledge.  He 
say%in  his  Count  Cagliostro: 

Know  thyself,  value  thyself,  is  a  moralist's  commandment  (which  I 
only  half  approve  of) ;  but  Know  others,  value  others,  is  the  hest  of  Nature 
herself.  Or  again,  Work  while  it  is  called  today:  is  not  that  also  the  irre- 
versible law  of  being  for  mortal  man?48 

And  in  Sartor  Resartus49  he  speaks  of  "the  folly  of  that  impossi- 
ble precept  Know  Thyself;  till  it  be  translated  into  this  partial- 
ly possible  one,  Know  what  thou  canst  work  at."  In  Past  and 
Present,  too,  he  exclaims: 

"Know  Thyself":  long  enough  has  that  poor  "self"  of  thine  torment- 
ed thee;  thou  wilt  never  get  to  "know"  it,  I  believe!  Think  it  not  thy 
business,  this  of  knowing  thyself;  thou  art  an  unknowable  individual: 
know  what  thou  canst  work  at;  and  work  at  it,  like  a  Hercules!  That  will 
be  thy  better  plan.50 

Carlyle's  rejection  of  the  maxim  is  shared,  if  not  echoed,  by 
James  Henry  on  occasion;  for  he,  along  with  Menander  of  old,51 
counsels  abandoning  the  attempt  to  know  self  and  giving  heed 
to  others: 

Know  thine  own  self,  the  Wise  man  said  of  old, 
And  many  a  time  the  advice  has  been  re-echoed: 
Know  thine  own  self.  But  I  say:  if  thou'rt  wise, 
What  need  hast  thou  to  know  it?  if  a  fool, 
What  whit  less  fool  art  thou  because  thou  know'st  it? 
So  study  others,  friend,  and  not  thyself; 
Cleave  to  the  wise  fast,  and  eschew  the  fool, 
And  leave't  to  others  so  to  do  by  thee.52 

And  in  another  little  poem,  entitled  "Tv&Bi  Xeavrov"  he  even 
makes  bold  to  say  that  our  god  forbids  us  to  know  ourselves, 
because  we  are  happier  in  our  ignorance: 

Know  thyself,  said  Apollo.  Our  God  says 

Know  thyself  not,  touch  not  the  tree  of  knowledge. 

Our  God  is  right;  the  ignorant  alone 

— Bear  witness,  playful,  envied  child, — is  happy.53 


ENGLISH  AND  AMERICAN,  1775-1875         171 

Among  the  means  to  be  employed  in  our  endeavor  to  know 
ourselves,  the  customary  advice  to  regard  as  our  own  the 
qualities,  and  particularly  the  faults,  which  we  see  in  others  is 
given  the  specific  turn  of  observing  family  traits  in  Northcote's 
fable  of  The  Magpie  and  the  Owl: 

A  pert,  conceited  Magpie  was  boasting  of  his  own  excellencies  to 
the  Owl,  saying  how  much  he  was  superior  to  all  the  others  of  his  family. 
When  the  sagacious  Owl  thus  answered  him:  "I  shall  not  attempt  to 
argue  with  you  on  your  superior  excellence,  when  compared  with  the  rest 
of  your  family;  only  I  must  observe  that  we  are  rarely  the  most  unbiassed 
judges  of  our  own  merits;  but  the  great  secret  towards  acquiring  a  com- 
petent knowledge  of  one's  self  is  best  found  by  a  critical  and  impartial 
view  of  our  nearest  of  kin,  and  then  return  to  make  a  strict  examination 
into  ourselves,  to  discover  if  there  is  not  some  slight  tincture  at  least  of  a 
family  similitude  in  respect  to  those  propensities  which  we  so  often  can 
distinctly  descry  and  despise  in  those  very  nearly  allied  to  us  by  nature." 

James  Henry  in  his  little  poem  entitled  "The  Two  Looking- 
Glasses"54 — an  echo  doubtless,  of  Aesop's  fable  of  the  two 
sacks — indicates  that  we  may  come  to  know  ourselves  by 
knowing  the  hearts  of  our  friends : 

With  two  looking-glasses,  the  wise  man  of  Greece  said, 
Most  bountiful  nature  supplied  us; 
One  to  show  us  what  passes  in  other  men's  hearts; 
This  glass  is  placed  queerly — inside  us. 

In  our  own  hearts  what  passes  we  see  in  the  other, 
Which  is  placed  just  as  queerly — outside  us; 
And  of  all  places  where  in  the  world  do  you  think? 
Why,  deep  in  our  friends'  hearts — beside  us. 

The  self-illumination  which  may  come  through  conversa- 
tion with  a  friend  is  suggested  in  Shelley's  Julian  and  Maddalo 
— a  poem  which  finds  its  setting  in  Shelley's  visit  to  Byron  in 
Venice  in  181 8.  Julian,  a  pseudonym  for  Shelley's  self,  says, 
near  the  close  of  the  poem,  that  he  is  loath  to  leave  Venice  and 


172  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

Maddalo's  (that  is,  Byron's)  charming  company;  and  he  pic- 
tures the  pleasure  which  he  would  have  in  remaining : 

I  might  sit 
In  Maddalo's  great  palace,  and  his  wit 
And  subtle  talk  would  cheer  the  winter  night 
And  make  me  know  myself;  and  the  firelight 
Would  flash  upon  our  faces ss 

The  value  of  intercourse  with  a  group  is  emphasized  by  William 
Matthews  in  his  essay  advocating  the  formation  of  literary 
clubs  in  our  Western  cities.56  He  says  that  conversation  with 
others  is  an  essential  means  to  full  self-knowledge;  for  valuable 
as  private  reading  and  study  may  be,  too  much  of  the  solitary 
life  leads  to  prejudices,  wrong  conclusions,  fixed  ideas,  and 
sometimes  to  insanity.  "Intercourse  is,  after  all,  man's  best 
teacher,"  he  argues,  and  adds: 

"Know  thyself"  is  an  excellent  maxim;  but  even  self-knowledge  can- 
not be  perfected  in  closets  and  cloisters, — nor  amid  lake  scenery,  and  on 
the  sunny  side  of  the  mountains.  Men  who  seldom  mix  with  their  fellows 
are  almost  sure  to  become  one-sided. 

And  again  the  necessity  of  associating  with  others,  which 
Goethe  emphasized  so  much,  is  expressed  in  Ruskin's  Ethics 
of  the  Dust.57  In  answer  to  Mary's  question,  "How  did  the  old 
Greek  proverb  'Know  thyself  come  to  be  so  highly  esteemed?" 
the  Old  Lecturer  replies : 

My  dear,  it  is  the  proverb  of  proverbs; — Apollo's  proverb,  and  the 
sun's;  but  do  you  think  you  can  know  yourself  by  looking  into  yourself? 
Never.  You  can  know  what  you  are  only  by  looking  out  of  yourself. 
Measure  your  own  powers  with  those  of  others;  compare  your  own  inter- 
ests with  those  of  others;  try  to  understand  what  you  appear  to  them,  as 
well  as  what  they  appear  to  you;  and  judge  of  yourselves,  in  all  things, 
relatively  and  subordinately. 

And  in  his  Queen  of  the  Air,  in  the  passage  where  he  speaks  of 
coming  to  know  ourselves  by  applying  Modesty's  yard-meas- 


ENGLISH  AND  AMERICAN,  1775-1875  173 

ure,58  Ruskin  says  that  "to  all  true  Modesty  the  necessary  busi- 
ness is  not  Mook,  but  outlook,  and  especially  uplook." 

The  assistance  afforded  by  a  mirror — actual,  not  figurative 
— is  suggested  in  a  unique  passage  in  Southey's  Doctor.  He 
is  talking  about  razors  and  shaving  and  Dr.  Dove's  attitude 
on  the  subject,  and  he  tells  us  he  has  heard  the  Doctor  say: 

What  lectures  does  the  looking-glass,  at  such  times,  read  to  those 
men  who  look  in  at  such  times  only!  The  glass  is  no  flatterer,  the  person 
in  no  disposition  to  flatter  himself,  the  plight  in  which  he  presents  him- 
self, certainly  no  flattering  one.  It  would  be  superfluous  to  have  yv&Oi 
(Tcavrbv  inscribed  upon  the  frame  of  the  mirror;  he  cannot  fail  to  know 
himself,  who  contemplates  his  own  face  there  long  and  steadily,  every 
day.  Nor  can  he  as  he  waxes  old  need  a  death's  head  for  a  memento  in 
his  closet  or  his  chamber:  for  day  by  day  he  traces  the  defeatures  which 
the  hand  of  Time  is  making, — that  hand  which  never  suspends  its 
work.59 

Apropos  of  the  mirror  as  an  instrument  of  self-knowledge,  we 
may  cite  the  role  of  the  magic  mirror  in  Hawthorne's  Feathertop. 
It  was  the  sight  of  himself  in  the  mirror  that  showed  the  poor 
scarecrow  that  he  was  but  a  "wretched,  ragged,  empty  thing"; 
and  when  he  refuses  to  exist  any  longer,  Mother  Rigby  cries : 

Poor  Fellow !  .  .  .  .  There  are  thousands  upon  thousands  of  coxcombs 
and  charlatans  in  the  world,  made  up  of  just  such  a  jumble  of  worn-out, 
forgotten,  and  good-for-nothing  trash  as  he  was!  Yet  they  live  in  fair 
repute,  and  never  see  themselves  for  what  they  are.60 

The  figure  of  the  mirror  is  also  used  in  Lowell's  Cambridge 
Thirty  Years  Ago  to  point  the  fact  that  we  ourselves  are  what 
we  judge  others  to  be.  Lowell  describes  the  carnival  character 
of  the  old-time  Harvard  Commencement  day,  with  "peep- 
shows"  at  a  cent  each  among  the  features.  If  Commencement 
were  what  it  used  to  be,  he  would  be  tempted  to  take  a  booth 
himself  and  try  an  experiment.  The  experiment,  he  tells  us  in 


i74  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

rhyme,  would  consist  of  setting  up  "a  full-length  psyche-glass'' 
in  a  darkish  room,  and  then  issuing  handbills  advertising 

GREAT  NATURAL  CURIOSITY!!  THE  BIGGEST 
LIVING  FOOL!! 

He  would  admit  the  public  one  by  one  and  let  each  "look  his 
fill,"  with  the  probable  strange  result  that  Smith  would  tell 
his  wife  it  was  a  face  like  Brown's  that  he  saw,  while  Brown 
would  say  that  he  saw  "the  counter-part  of  that  conceited 
Smith."61 

That  men  may  see  themselves  mirrored  in  the  drama  is 
indicated  by  William  Richardson's  discussion  of  self-knowledge 
in  the  Introduction  to  his  Philosophical  Analysis  of  Shake- 
speare's Characters.  The  genuine  poet,  he  affirms,  "teaches  us 
to  know  ourselves";62  and  through  the  plays  of  a  great  drama- 
tist such  as  Shakespeare,  men  may  come  to  know  human  nature 
"by  an  easier  and  more  agreeable  path  than  that  of  mere  meta- 
physics."63 So  Shelley  declares,  in  his  Defence  of  Poetry fA  that 
a  drama  of  the  highest  order  teaches  self-knowledge  and  self- 
respect. 

Adversity  has  long  been  given  a  prominent  place  among  the 
experiences  which  help  toward  the  attainment  of  self-knowl- 
edge. This  service  of  adversity  is  indicated  in  Burns'  "First 
Epistle  to  Davie":65 

And  ev'n  should  Misfortunes  come 


They  gie  the  wit  of  Age  to  Youth; 
They  let  us  ken  oursel' ; 

There's  wit  there,  ye'll  get  there, 
Ye'll  find  nae  other  where. 


Kingsley  writes  in  his  Alton  Locke: 

The  poet,  I  suppose,  must  be  a  seer  as  long  as  he  is  a  worker,  and  a 
seer  only.  He  has  no  time  to  philosophize — to  "think  about  thinking,"  as 
Goethe,  I  have  somewhere  read,  says  that  he  never  could  do.  It  is  too 


ENGLISH  AND  AMERICAN,  1775-1875  175 

often  only  in  sickness  and  prostration  and  sheer  despair  that  the  fierce 
voracity  and  swift  digestion  of  his  soul  can  cease,  and  give  him  time  to 
know  himself  and  God's  dealings  with  him;  and  for  that  reason  it  is  good 
for  him,  too,  to  have  been  afflicted.66 

And  Hawthorne  remarks  in  The  House  of  Seven  Gables61  that 
a  hard,  cold  man  like  Judge  Pyncheon  "seldom  or  never  looking 
inward  ....  can  scarcely  arrive  at  true  self-knowledge  except 
through  the  loss  of  property  and  reputation." 

Self-examination  and  reflection  are  recommended  by  sever- 
al of  the  authors  of  this  period.  Charles  Bucke  suggests  the 
keeping  of  a  diary  "of  our  affections  and  feelings,  as  well  as  of 
our  hopes  and  disappointments,  our  actions  and  reactions."68 
Coleridge  says  in  the  Preface  to  Aids  to  Reflection: 

There  is  one  art  of  which  every  man  should  be  master — the  art  of 

reflection There  is  one  knowledge  which  it  is  every  man's  interest 

and  duty  to  acquire,  namely,  self-knowledge.  Truly  said  the  Pagan  moral- 

lst>  E  caelo  descendit  yvCidi  aeavrov. 

But  you  are  ....  born  in  a  Christian  land;  and  Revelation  has  provided 
for  you  new  subjects  for  reflection,  and  new  treasures  of  knowledge,  never 
to  be  unlocked  by  him  who  remains  self -ignorant.  Self-knowledge  is  the 
key  to  this  casket :  and  by  reflection  alone  can  it  be  obtained.  Reflect  on 
your  own  thoughts,  actions,  circumstances  and  ....  on  the  words  you 
use,  hear,  or  read 

Sir  William  Hamilton  in  his  Educational  essay  on  Oxford  as 
It  Might  Be69  recommends  the  study  of  philosophy,  which  he 
defines  as  "the  theory  of  what  we  can  know  and  think  and  do, 
in  a  word — the  knowledge  of  ourselves,"  and  says,  "To  know, 
we  must  understand  our  instrument  of  knowing.  'Know  thy- 
self is,  in  fact,  a  heavenly  precept,  in  Christianity  as  in  heath- 
enism. And  this  knowledge  can  be  compassed  only  by  reflec- 
tion,— only  from  within."  The  value  of  self-examination  is  also 
emphasized  in  the  passages  quoted  above  from  William  Rich- 
ardson, Anthony  Grumbler,  and  Lowell.70 


176  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

The  idea  that  a  man  can  know  himself  only  by  revelation 
from  God,  and  only  as  he  knows  God,  is  expressed  by  Cowper 
in  his  poem  entitled  "Charity": 

Self-knowledge,  truly  learn'd,  of  course  implies 
The  rich  possession  of  a  nobler  prize; 
For  self  to  self,  and  God  to  man,  reveal'd 
(Two  themes  to  nature's  eye  for  ever  seaPd) 
Are  taught  by  rays  that  fly  with  equal  pace 
From  the  same  centre  of  enlight'ning  grace.71 

This  thought  is  also  the  chief  purport  of  Tupper's  lines  in  "Of 
Self -Acquaintance"  :72 

Well  said  the  wisdom  of  earth,  O  mortal,  know  thyself; 

But  better  the  wisdom  of  heaven,  O  man,  learn  thou  thy  God: 

....  Self-knowledge  filleth  with  acceptance  its  niche  in  the  temple  of 

utility: 
But  vainly  wilt  thou  look  for  that  knowledge,  till  the  clue  of  all  truth  is 

in  thy  hand, 
For  the  labyrinth  of  man's  heart  windeth  in  complicate  deceivings: 
Thou  canst  not  sound  its  depths  with  the  shallow  plumb-line  of  reason, 
Till  religion,  the  pilot  of  the  soul,  have  lent  thee  her  unfathomable  coil. 
Therefore,  for  this  grand  knowledge,  and  knowledge  is  the  parent  of 

dominion, 
Learn  God,  thou  shalt  know  thyself;  yea,  and  shalt  have  mastery  of  all 

things. 

Richard  Henry  Dana,  likewise,  writes  in  his  "Thoughts  on  the 

Soul":™ 

Know  God,  and,  so,  thyself. 

And  Whittier  in  "The  Word"  characterizes  the  "Voice  of  the 

Holy  Spirit"  as 

....  making  known 
Man  to  himself 


While  Carlyle  only  half  approves  of  the  maxim,  and  prefers 
to  substitute  for  Apollo's  "Know  thyself,"  his  own  "Know 


ENGLISH  AND  AMERICAN,  1775-1875  177 

what  thou  canst  work  at,"  he  yet  insists  that  through  man's 
work  he  comes  to  know  something  of  his  soul.  We  read  in 
Sartor  Resartus74  "A  certain  inarticulate  self-consciousness 
dwells  dimly  in  us,  which  only  our  works  can  render  articulate 
and  decisively  discernible.  Our  works  are  the  mirror  wherein 
the  spirit  first  sees  its  natural  lineaments."  And  again  in  his 
Count  Cagliostro,75  "What  is  all  working,  what  is  all  knowing, 
but  a  faint  interpreting  and  a  faint  showing  forth  of  that  same 
Mystery  of  Life,  which  ever  remains  infinite, — heaven-written 
mystic  Sanskrit?  View  it  as  we  will,  to  him  that  lives,  Life  is 
a  divine  matter." 

As  Carlyle's  method  of  attaining  a  certain  degree  of  self- 
knowledge  is  implied  in  some  of  the  thoughts  which  gather 
about  his  slogan  of  "work,"  so  Matthew  Arnold's  watchword  of 
the  right  education  signifies  his  conception  of  the  method  to  be 
pursued,  if  a  man  would  come  to  a  knowledge  of  himself  in  his 
sense  of  the  term.  And  the  right  education,  in  Arnold's  judg- 
ment, gives  large,  though  not  exclusive,  place  to  a  familiarity 
with  the  life  and  literature  of  Greece  and  Rome.  He  says  in  his 
report  on  The  Higher  Schools  and  Universities  in  Germany:7^ 

The  aim  and  office  of  instruction  ....  is  to  enable  a  man  to  know 
himself  and  the  world To  know  himself  a  man  must  know  the  capa- 
bilities and  performances  of  the  human  spirit;  ....  Whoever  seeks  help 
for  knowing  himself  from  knowing  the  capabilities  and  performances  of 
the  human  spirit  will  nowhere  find  a  more  fruitful  object  of  study  than 
in  the  achievements  of  Greece  in  literature  and  the  arts  during  the  two 
centuries  from  the  birth  of  Simonides  to  the  death  of  Plato. 

And  again  in  one  of  his  Discourses  in  America71  on  "Literature 
and  Science,"  he  refers  to  a  phrase  of  his  "to  the  effect  that 
in  our  culture,  the  aim  being  to  know  ourselves  and  the  world, 
we  have,  as  the  means  to  this  end,  to  know  the  best  which  has 
been  thought  and  said  in  the  world."  And  he  explains  that  he 


178  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

includes  in  this  best  "knowing  the  Greeks  and  Romans,  and 
their  life  and  genius,  and  what  they  were  and  did  in  the  world ; 
what  we  get  from  them,  and  what  is  its  value."78  Edward  Row- 
land Sill  seems  to  be  influenced  by  this  thought  of  Matthew 
Arnold's  in  his  poem  entitled  "Man  the  Spirit,"  when  in  speak- 
ing of  the  clamor  of  the  present  as  against  the  past  in  educa- 
tion, he  asks: 

What  is  our  training — what  do  colleges  give 
To  men,  which  makes  that  feared  and  sneered-at  thing, 
A  culture  through  the  classics?  Do  we  dare 
Reveal  the  Eleusinian  mysteries 
Which  leave  such  impress  on  these  white  boy -brows, 
That  the  world,  recognizing  kingship,  says, 
"Here  is  a  soul  that  knows  itself,  has  touched 
The  centre,  and  radiates  the  broadening  beams 
Of  influence  straight  to  the  point  he  means?"79 

The  self-revelation  which  comes  in  great  moments  through 
strong  emotional  experience  is  called  "self-knowledge"  in 
Emerson's  essay  on  "History,"  where  we  read: 

A  mind  might  ponder  its  thoughts  for  ages  and  not  gain  so  much 
self-knowledge  as  the  passion  of  love  shall  teach  it  in  a  day.  Who  knows 
himself  before  he  has  been  thrilled  with  indignation  at  an  outrage,  or  has 
heard  an  eloquent  tongue,  or  has  shared  the  throb  of  thousands  in  a 
national  exultation  or  alarm?  No  man  can  antedate  his  experience,  or 
guess  what  faculty  or  feeling  a  new  object  shall  unlock 8o 

With  Emerson's  thought  touching  the  self-knowledge  to  be 
gained  through  the  experience  of  love,  we  may  compare 
J.  G.  Holland's  lines  regarding  marriage  in  the  Mistress  of  the 

Manse: 

For  maiden  life,  with  all  its  fire, 
Is  hid  within  a  grated  cell, 
Where  every  fancy  and  desire 
And  graceless  passion,  guarded  well, 
Sits  dumb  behind  the  woven  wire. 


ENGLISH  AND  AMERICAN,  1775-1875  179 

Marriage  is  freedom:  only  when 
The  husband  turns  the  prison-key 
Knows  she  herself:  nor  even  then 
Knows  she  more  wisely  well  than  he 
Who  finds  himself  least  wise  of  men.81 

Emerson  further  suggests  the  possibility  of  utilizing  our 
dreams  in  order  to  know  ourselves  better.  He  says  in  his  lec- 
ture on  "Demonology": 

A  skilful  man  reads  his  dreams  for  his  self-knowledge;  yet  not  the 
details,  but  the  quality.  What  part  does  he  play  in  them, — a  cheerful, 
manly  part,  or  a  poor  drivelling  part?  However  monstrous  and  grotesque 
their  appearance,  they  have  a  substantial  truth.82 

And  there  is  a  hint  of  the  possibility  of  acquiring  unconsciously 
a  certain  knowledge  of  self  during  our  sleeping  hours  in  Sill's 
" Commencement  Poem,"  where  he  glories  in  the  memory  of 
life  at  Yale : 

Hours  of  golden  noon-day,  when  the  blood  up-leaping 
Like  a  soft,  swift  lightning  pulses  through  the  veins; 
Hours  of  shrouded  midnight,  when  the  soul  unsleeping 
Calm  self-knowledge,  wider  trust,  and  patience  gains.83 

These  last  passages  from  Emerson  and  Sill  anticipate  the 
influence  of  the  psychology  of  the  subconscious  upon  the  inter- 
pretation of  yv&du  aeavrov  in  the  literature  of  our  own  day.  To 
look  back  again  at  the  period  under  consideration,  this  study 
of  the  passages  in  which  the  maxim  is  discussed  in  the  philoso- 
phy and  literature  of  the  century  following  the  French  Revolu- 
tion points,  as  we  have  already  indicated,  to  a  rather  subtle, 
and  yet  unmistakable,  change  of  attitude  toward  the  essential 
import  of  the  command  and  the  means  of  fulfilling  it.  More 
often  than  not  among  minor  writers,  to  be  sure,  we  find  the 
maxim  used  with  some  one  or  more  of  its  ancient  implications, 
and  the  mystical  concept  of  the  Middle  Ages  is  not  wholly 


180  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

lost;  but  it  is  obvious  that  with  the  greater  minds,  on  the 
whole,  the  emphasis  has  shifted  from  the  subjective  and  indi- 
vidual to  a  more  objective  and  social  point  of  view.  The  duty 
of  self-examination  and  reflection  is  no  longer  made  paramount. 
The  man  who  would  know  himself  adequately,  according  to 
the  most  representative  thinkers  of  the  age,  must  know  his 
fellow-men  and  his  relation  to  them,  not  alone  to  the  end  that 
he  may  understand  himself  better,  but  that  he  may  duly  play 
his  part  in  the  life  of  the  whole.  This  new  emphasis,  as  we  well 
know,  has  its  roots  in  the  past;  but  it  remained  for  the  modern 
era  to  make  it  an  appreciably  dominant  note  in  some  of  the 
more  significant  discussions  of  the  maxim. 


CHAPTER  XI 

MAXIM  AND  THEME  IN  PHILOSOPHY  AND 
LITERATURE  FROM  1875 

As  we  approach  the  twentieth  century  we  begin  to  see  the 
effect  of  the  dominating  scientific  interest  upon  the  interpreta- 
tions of  7*>a;0i  creavrov.  The  application  of  scientific  method  to 
a  study  of  the  human  mind  has  progressed  rapidly,  until  some 
knowledge  of  the  workings  of  the  subconscious  has  become  wide- 
spread. The  doctrine  of  evolution  has  penetrated  almost  every 
field  of  learning  and  has  led  to  a  new  apprehension  of  life  and 
knowledge  from  the  evolutionary  point  of  view.  Moreover,  the 
mechanical  development  which  has  been  knitting  the  world 
together  more  and  more,  has  brought  to  the  West  an  increasing 
understanding  and  appreciation  of  the  thought-life  of  the 
Orient,  both  directly  and  through  the  works  of  Schopenhauer 
and  others  who  were  influenced  by  the  first  available  transla- 
tions of  Eastern  lore.  The  mystical  East  is  at  our  doors,  with 
the  philosophy  of  the  Upanishads  and  the  highly  spiritual  life 
of  a  Ghandi  and  a  Tagore.  Pantheism,  already  familiar  to  the 
philosophical  student,1  thus  makes  a  wider  appeal,  not  only  as 
a  possible  metaphysical  deduction,  but  as  a  working  philosophy 
of  life;  and  it  leads  us  back  to  the  Western  mystic's  sense  of 
oneness  with  his  God,  plus  an  added  sense  of  oneness  with  his 
fellows,  hitherto  unexpressed  in  like  degree.  We  may  expect 
to  find  these  three  influences,  then — the  psychology  of  the  un- 
conscious or  subconscious,  the  evolutionary  development  of  the 
race  both  physically  and  historically,  and  the  pantheistic  con- 
ception of  the  universe — entering  into  discussions  of  the  maxim 


1 82  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

in  the  philosophy  and  literature  of  the  past  fifty  years;  and  we 
find  them  all,  although  the  passages  in  which  the  evolutionary 
development  is  the  prevailing  thought  are  relatively  few  and 
will  be  cited  last. 

Certain  of  the  old-time  connotations  of  the  apothegm  still 
persist,  however,  and  call  for  early  mention.  The  original  forces 
of  "Know  your  measure"  and  "Know  your  capabilities"  have, 
as  a  rule,  but  incidental  place  in  recent  literature.  The  chief 
use  of  the  maxim  in  the  sense  of  "Know  your  high  worth" 
occurs  in  a  section  of  Dubray's  Introductory  Philosophy2  in 
which  he  is  discussing  "Personal  Dignity"  as  one  of  the  "Duties 
Referring  Chiefly  to  the  Mind."  He  says  that  due  self-respect 
and  self-esteem  will  proceed  from  self-knowledge,  and  then  he 
quotes  the  passage  from  Cicero's  Epistle  to  his  brother  Quintus 
(iii.  6) :  "Do  not  think  that  yv&di  aeavrbv  was  spoken  merely 
to  lessen  our  arrogance,  but  that  we  might  know  our  good 
points  also."3  Self-knowledge,  he  adds,  "makes  a  man  aware 
of  what  is  respect  worthy  in  himself,  chiefly  his  moral  nature, 
and  prevents  him  from  lowering  or  allowing  anybody  to  lower 
his  human  personality."  And  Arthur  Benson  expresses  the 
same  idea  in  his  essay  on  Egotism.* 

In  one  sense  we  must  be  egotistic,  if  self-knowledge  is  egotism.  We 
must  try  to  take  the  measure  of  our  faculties,  and  we  must  try  to  use 
them.  But  while  we  must  wisely  humiliate  ourselves  before  the  majesty 
of  God  ....  we  must  at  the  same  time  believe  that  we  have  our  place 
and  our  work 

The  maxim  is  used  in  the  sense  of  knowing  one's  character- 
istics, especially  one's  faults,  in  a  recent  discussion  of  Bertrand 
Russell's  criticism  of  Bergson's  philosophy.  Russell  remarks, 
with  reference  to  Bergson's  doctrine  of  intuition: 

The  best  instance  of  it,  according  to  him,  is  our  acquaintance  with 
ourselves;  yet  self-knowledge  is  proverbially  rare  and  difficult.  Most  men, 


MAXIM  AND  THEME  FROM  1875 183 

for  example,  have  in  their  nature  meannesses,  vanities,  and  envies  of 
which  they  are  quite  unconscious,  though  even  their  best  friends  can  per- 
ceive them  without  any  difficulty.5 

And  George  Rostrevor  in  the  Appendix  to  his  Bergson  and 
Future  Philosophy  replies  to  this  criticism  as  follows : 

The  difficulty  of  self-knowledge  is  a  truism;  yvdOt  aeavrov  is  a  hard 
precept,  as  men  have  tragically  proved,  generation  after  generation.  Is 
Bergson  really  such  a  fool  ....  as  to  say  that  at  least  we  can  all  know 
ourselves?  Certainly  not.  Russell  flagrantly  misinterprets  him  when  he 
substitutes  for  the  knowledge  of  "our  own  self  in  its  flowing  through  time 
— our  self  which  endures"  the  terms  "acquaintance  with  ourselves"  and 
"self-knowledge."  Bergson  does  not  affirm  that  this  primary  intuition 
gives  us  knowledge  of  our  own  characters.  Obviously  knowledge  of  our 
moral  qualities  ....  implies  dissection,  analysis,  the  work  of  the  intel- 
lect; if  we  attempt  to  know  ourselves  in  the  sense  of  knowing  our  faults, 
the  failure — supposing  we  do  fail — is  the  failure  of  the  intellect.6 

Nietzsche  applies  the  maxim  to  a  knowledge  of  the  motives 
which  govern  conduct  in  Beyond  Good  and  Evil,1  where  he  says 
that  in  the  prehistoric  period  actions  were  valued  by  their 
consequences,  for  the  command  "Erkenne  dich  selbst"  was 
then  still  unknown,  but  in  the  last  ten  thousand  years  on  cer- 
tain portions  of  the  earth  the  value  of  an  action  has  been  de- 
termined not  by  its  consequences  but  by  its  origin — a  moral 
period  with  whose  coming  the  first  attempt  at  self-knowledge 
was  made. 

The  application  of  yvudi  aeavrbv  to  a  knowledge  of  the  body 
occurs  in  Coventry  Patmore's  The  Rod,  the  Root,  and  the  Flower 
and  in  the  works  of  Nietzsche.  Coventry  Patmore  writes: 

A  strange  age  of  "Science"  in  which  no  one  pays  the  least  attention 
to  the  one  thing  worth  knowing — himself !  No  supernatural  light  is  needed 
to  see  that  "we  are  fearfully  and  wonderfully  made,"  and  to  enable  us  to 
say  with  David,  "Such  knowledge  is  too  wonderful  for  me.  I  cannot  at- 
tain unto  it."  We  cannot,  indeed,  attain  to  the  fulness  of  it  ...  .  but 
it  is  no  reason  ....  for  diligently  gathering  sticks  and  stones  only  be- 


184  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

cause  the  gold  and  rubies  on  the  ground  are  more  than  we  can  carry  away. 
It  was  not  always  so.  Scire  teipsum  was  the  maxim  of  all  ancient  philoso- 
phy and  the  stupidest  little  Greek  knew  more  of  man,  and  therefore  of 
God  ....  than  Bacon  and  all  our  "men  of  Science"  as  such  since  him, 
put  together.  We  have  had  but  one  psychologist  and  human  physiologist 
...  for  at  least  a  thousand  years,  namely  Swedenborg  ....  and  he, 
Mr.  Huxley  may  perhaps  think  it  sufficient  to  answer,  was  mad!8 

So  Nietzsche  says  in  The  Will  to  Power: 

Man  did  not  know  himself  physiologically  throughout  the  ages  his 
history  covers;  he  does  not  even  know  himself  now.  The  knowledge,  for 
instance,  that  man  has  a  nervous  system  ....  is  still  the  privilege  of  the 
most  educated  people.  But  man  is  not  satisfied,  in  this  respect,  to  say  he 
does  not  know.9 

And  in  his  essay  on  Truth  and  Falsity  he  exclaims : 

What  indeed  does  a  man  know  about  himself?  Oh!  that  he  could  but 
once  see  himself  complete,  placed  as  it  were  in  an  illuminated  glass  case! 
Does  not  nature  keep  secret  from  him  most  things,  even  about  his  body, 

e.g the  quick  flow  of  the  blood  currents Nature  threw  away 

the  key;  and  woe  to  the  fateful  curiosity  which  might  be  able  for  a  moment 
to  look  out  and  down  through  a  crevice  in  the  chamber  of  consciousness, 
and  discover  that  man,  indifferent  to  his  own  ignorance,  is  resting  on  the 
pitiless,  the  greedy,  the  insatiable,  the  murderous,  and,  as  it  were,  hanging 
in  dreams  on  the  back  of  a  tiger.10 

In  the  sentence  just  quoted  Nietzsche  apparently  shrinks 
from  the  sight  of  what  a  glimpse  into  the  subconscious  may 
reveal.  John  Burroughs  applies  the  maxim  to  a  knowledge  of 
the  subconscious,  but  in  happier  vein,  in  his  essay  entitled  An 
Egotistical  Chapter.11  He  is  speaking  of  his  literary  method, 
and  of  how  some  of  the  things  which  he  writes  seem  to  come  to 
him  from  beyond  his  ken,  and  he  adds: 

It  is  a  wise  injunction  "Know  thyself,"  but  how  hard  to  fulfil!  This 
unconscious  region  in  one,  this  unconscious  setting  of  the  currents  of  his 
life  in  certain  directions, — how  hard  to  know  that!  The  influence  of  his 
family,  his  race,  his  times,  his  environment,  are  all  deeper  than  the  plum- 
met of  his  self-knowledge  can  reach. 


MAXIM  AND  THEME  FROM  1875 185 

Burroughs  is  evidently  thinking  of  the  "un conscious  region"  as 
the  realm  in  which  racial  and  environmental  influences  hold 
sway.  With  Maeterlinck,  on  the  other  hand,  the  realm  of  the 
unconscious  is  the  realm  of  the  spiritual,  of  which  man  may 
become  increasingly  aware  as  he  seeks  to  know  it.  It  is  in  this 
sense  that  he  says  in  his  Wisdom  and  Destiny  that  perhaps  the 
only  ideal  left  to  us  "is  to  gain  full  self-knowledge"12 — to  know 
the  "inner  force"  whose  springs  lie  deeper  than  consciousness,13 
and  which  cannot  be  apprehended  by  reason  alone.14  We  read  :IS 

This  knowledge  of  self  is  only  too  often  regarded  as  implying  no  more 
than  a  knowledge  of  our  defects  and  our  qualities,  whereas  it  does  indeed 
extend  infinitely  further,  to  mysteries  vastly  more  helpful.  To  know  one- 
self in  repose  suffices  not,  nor  does  it  suffice  to  know  oneself  in  the  past 
or  the  present.  Those  within  whom  lies  the  force  that  I  speak  of  know 
themselves  in  the  future  too.16  Consciousness  of  self  with  the  greatest  of 
men  implies  consciousness  up  to  a  point  of  their  star  or  their  desti- 
ny  I7 

And  again  he  writes : 

He  who  knows  himself  is  wise :  yet  have  we  no  sooner  acquired  real 
consciousness  of  our  being  than  we  learn  that  true  wisdom  is  a  thing  that 
lies  far  deeper  than  consciousness.  The  chief  gain  of  increased  conscious- 
ness is  that  it  unveils  an  ever-loftier  unconsciousness,  on  whose  height  do 
the  sources  lie  of  the  purest  wisdom.18 

Self-knowledge  is  made  to  include  a  knowledge  of  the  sub- 
conscious in  both  the  scientific  and  the  spiritual  sense  in  the 
following  statement  by  Horatio  Dresser,  lecturer  and  prolific 
writer  on  practical  philosophy,  with  leanings  toward  "New 
Thought,"  in  his  Education  and  the  Philosophical  Ideal: 

The  larger  knowledge  of  self  includes  the  results  of  psychic  research, 
the  therapeutic  value  of  thought,  the  power  of  hope,  and  a  practical 
idealistic  philosophy.  It  gives  great  prominence  to  the  study  and  develop- 
ment of  the  subconscious  mind  as  a  potent  factor  in  spiritual  education.1? 


1 86  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

The  apothegm  is  applied  to  speculative  philosophy  in  The 
New  Philosophy  of  Henri  Bergson  by  Edouard  LeRoy,  in 
George  Trumbell  Ladd's  What  Can  I  Know?  and  in  Bernardino 
Varisco's  metaphysical  work  entitled  Know  Thyself.  In  The 
New  Philosophy  of  Henri  Bergson  we  read: 

"Know  thyself":  the  old  maxim  has  remained  the  motto  of  philoso- 
phy since  Socrates,  the  motto  at  least  which  marks  its  initial  moment, 
when,  inclining  towards  the  depth  of  the  subject,  it  commences  its  true 
work  of  penetration,  whilst  science  continues  to  extend  on  the  surface. 
Each  philosophy  in  turn  has  commented  upon  and  applied  this  old  motto. 
....  Speaking  only  of  the  last  century  we  may  say  that,  under  the  influ- 
ence of  Kant,  criticism  had  till  now  been  principally  engaged  in  unraveling 
the  contribution  of  the  subject  in  the  act  of  consciousness,  in  establishing 
our  perception  of  things  through  certain  representative  forms  borrowed 
from  our  constitution.  Such  was  even  yesterday  the  authenticated  way 
of  regarding  the  problem.20 

Ladd's  application  of  the  maxim  to  speculative  philosophy 
occurs  in  the  chapter  of  What  Can  I  Know?  entitled  "On  the 
Worth  and  Way  of  Self-Knowledge."  In  speaking  of  the 
Delphic  oracle  "Know  thyself,"  he  says  that  while  "the  techni- 
cal and  elaborate  metaphysics  of  the  inquiry  into  the  nature  of 
the  human  Self  is  ...  .  reached  only  by  a  speculative  climb 
up  an  arduous  and  steep  path,"21  yet  we  may  "feel  the  utmost 
courage  in  pressing  our  way  a  little  distance" — we  may  ar- 
rive at  a  knowledge  of  the  unity  of  the  self22  by  "self-con- 
sciousness, memory,  and  sound  reasoning."  Varisco  links  his 
work  with  the  maxim,  not  only  in  the  title  of  his  book,  but  in 
two  interpretative  statements  in  the  opening  chapter.  "By  the 
precept  which  forms  the  title  of  the  present  book,"  he  writes, 
"Socrates  laid  it  down  that  philosophy  ought  to  be  a  theory  of 
knowledge";23  and  again  farther  on,  "Metaphysics  is  construct- 
ed by  penetrating  into  the  cognition  which  we  have  of  our- 
selves; it  has  self-consciousness  as  its  presupposition,  though 


MAXIM  AND  THEME  FROM  1875 187 

not  a  self-consciousness  incapable  of  development  ....  'Know 
thyself:  this  is  the  starting-point,  and  must  be  the  goal.'"24 
Varisco  summarizes  the  main  points  in  his  discussion  at  the 
close  of  the  work.  To  further  summarize  his  summary,  he  states 
that  every  subject  is  a  unity  of  its  own  phenomenal  world — a 
secondary  unity,  one  among  many,  existing  only  as  it  belongs 
to  a  system  connected  with  the  supreme  unity  of  the  universe 
— a  "unity  which,  while  it  connects  the  subjects,  is  constitutive 
of  each."  The  reality  of  the  universe  consists  in  its  being 
known.  For  every  subject  as  the  center  of  its  own  phenomenal 
world  the  facts  of  the  phenomenal  world  are  external  and  in- 
ternal, and  both  external  and  internal  facts  are  either  conscious 
or  subconscious.  This  phenomenal  world  has  as  its  center  many 
other  subjects  analogous  to  one's  self.  Every  subject  and  every 
fact  is  a  determination  of  being.  The  unsolved  problem  is 
whether  the  determinations  by  which  the  phenomenal  world 
is  constituted  are  essential  to  being  or  not.  If  they  are,  "we 
are  in  the  sphere  of  pantheism" ;  if  not,  "being  has  other  deter- 
minations which  constitute  it  a  person,"  and  "we  are  within 
the  sphere  of  theism."  Varisco  himself  is  a  theist,  he  tells  us 
in  the  Appendix;25  but  he  does  not  consider  his  personal  opinion 
on  the  subject  as  yet  fully  demonstrated  by  argument.  To  re- 
turn to  Le  Roy's  statement  quoted  above,  he  says  further  that 
Bergson,  more  than  anyone  else,  has  given  the  maxim  a  new 
and  profound  meaning  and  reverses  the  former  way  of  regard- 
ing the  problem.  He  then  quotes  a  passage  from  Bergson's 
Essay  on  the  Immediate  Data  of  Consciousness,  in  which  he  asks 
whether  the  most  apparent  states  of  the  ego  itself,  which  we 
think  we  grasp  directly,  are  not  most  of  the  time  perceived 
through  certain  forms  borrowed  from  the  outer  world  which 
in  this  way  gives  us  back  what  we  have  lent  it,  and  he  proceeds 


188  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

to  discuss  Bergson's  teaching.  We  may  remark  in  passing  that 
Bergson  himself  nowhere  cites  the  maxim. 

The  first  definite  connection  of  yvoodt,  aeavrov  with  the 
pantheistic  philosophy  of  the  East  occurs  in  the  opening  para- 
graph of  an  essay  by  Richard  Wagner  entitled  Erkenne  dich 
selbst.26  He  reminds  us  that  great  Kant  taught  us  to  investi- 
gate the  possibility  of  man's  knowing  at  all  before  wishing  to 
know  the  world,  and  Schopenhauer  proved  the  reality  of  the 
world-in-itself  on  the  basis  of  the  fundamental  will  in  us.  Then 
he  adds: 

Erkenne  dich  selbst  and  thou  hast  known  the  world! — so  the  Pythia; 
Look  around  thee — all  this  art  thou — so  the  Brahmin.  How  entirely 
these  lessons  of  ancestral  wisdom  had  been  lost  to  us,  we  can  see  from 
this — that  they  had  to  be  rediscovered  a  thousand  years  afterward  through 
Schopenhauer  following  in  the  shining  wake  of  Kant. 

The  "This  art  thou"  (or  "That  art  thou")27  is  the  keynote  of 
ancient  Indian  philosophy,  which  became  known  to  Europeans 
for  the  first  time  through  the  publication  of  a  Latin  translation 
of  the  Upanishads  by  Anquetil  Duperron  in  1801-2.28  This 
Latin  translation  was  read  by  Schopenhauer  and  it  influenced 
his  philosophy,  as  we  learn  from  his  own  words;29  while  transla- 
tions into  German  and  English  by  later  scholars  have  made  a 
considerable  portion  of  the  entire  body  of  Vedic  literature  avail- 
able for  a  larger  circle  of  readers.30  Although  Wagner  is  here 
bringing  the  two  maxims  together  in  such  a  way  that  the  one 
serves  as  the  complement  of  the  other,31  the  "That  art  thou," 
with  a  "know"  implied,  is  actually  identical  in  force  with  the 
mystical  connotation  of  7^co0i  aeavrbv — a  fact  which  becomes 
clear  only  as  we  study  the  phrase  in  its  setting,  along  with  the 
conception  of  self-knowledge  in  the  Vedas.  "That  art  thou"  oc- 
curs frequently  in  the  Chandogya  Upanishad,  where  the  panthe- 
istic conception  of  the  universe  is  illustrated  by  several  parallels 


MAXIM  AND  THEME  FROM  1875 189 

from  nature.  The  bees,  for  instance,  "prepare  honey  by  col- 
lecting the  essence  from  different  trees  and  reducing  the  essence 
to  a  unity,"  and  there  is  then  no  separate  essence  of  this  tree 
or  that;  likewise  rivers  flowing  into  the  ocean  are  one  with 
the  ocean — the  ocean  itself;  and  so  "That  which  is  the  finest 
essence — this  whole  world  has  that  as  its  soul.  That  is  Reality. 
That  is  Atman  (Soul).  That  art  Thou,  'Svetaketu.'  "32 

The  method  of  realizing  this  essence — this  soul  of  the  uni- 
verse, with  which  the  individual  soul  is  identical — is  brought 
out  by  a  story  a  little  farther  on.33  There  once  came  to  Praja- 
pati,  the  supreme  lord  of  all  beings,  one  from  among  the  gods, 
named  Indra,  and  one  from  among  the  devils,  named  Virocana, 
and  for  thirty- two  years  they  "lived  the  chaste  life  of  a  student 
of  sacred  knowledge."  Then  Prajapati  said  to  them,  "Desiring 
what  have  you  been  living?"  And  they  replied: 

The  Self  (Atman)  which  is  free  from  evil,  ageless,  deathless,  sorrow- 
less,  hungerless,  thirstless,  whose  desire  is  the  Real  ....  He  should  be 
searched  out,  Him  one  should  desire  to  understand.  He  obtains  all  worlds 
and  all  desires  who  has  found  out  and  who  understands  that  self.  — Such 
do  people  declare  to  be  your  words,  Sir.  We  have  been  living  desiring 
Him! 

Prajapati  tells  them  that  the  person  they  see  in  a  mirror  or 
in  water  is  the  Self — is  Brahma.  So  they  look  in  a  pan  of  water 
and  see  themselves — with  their  hair,  their  clothes,  and  their 
adornments;  and  they  go  away  with  tranquil  hearts.  Virocana 
goes  back  to  the  devils  and  tells  them  that  he  who  makes  him- 
self happy  here  on  earth  gains  both  this  world  and  the  next, 
and  we  hear  of  him  no  more.  But  Indra  sees  that  the  bodily 
features  perish  with  the  body,  and  he  returns  dissatisfied  to 
Prajapati.  After  another  thirty- two  years  have  passed,  Praja- 
pati says  to  him,  "He  who  moves  about  happy  in  a  dream — he 
is  the  Self That  is  the  immortal,  the  fearless.  That  is 


i go  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

Brahma."  And  with  tranquil  heart  Indra  goes  forth  again. 
But  before  he  reaches  the  gods,  he  sees  that  while  the  dream 
self  may  be  free  from  bodily  defects,  it  can  experience  the  un- 
pleasant; and  he  returns  dissatisfied.  Another  thirty- two  years 
pass,  and  Prajapati  says  to  him,  "Now,  when  one  is  sound 
asleep,  composed,  serene,  and  knows  no  dream — that  is  the 

Self That  is  Brahma."  Once  more  Indra  starts  to  go 

back  to  the  gods,  and  again  he  returns,  saying,  "Assuredly, 
indeed,  this  one  does  not  exactly  know  himself  (Atmanan)  with 
the  thought  'I  am  he,'  nor  indeed  the  things  here.  He  becomes 
one  who  has  gone  to  destruction.  I  see  nothing  enjoyable  in 
this."  Indra  lived  with  Prajapati  five  years  longer,  and  Pra- 
japati then  disclosed  the  ultimate  truth — that  the  body  is  mere- 
ly the  support  of  the  deathless,  bodiless  self;  and  that  while 
the  incorporated  self  feels  pleasure  and  pain,  the  real  self  is 
beyond  sensation.  The  parts  of  the  body  are  but  the  instru- 
ments of  the  Atman;  the  mind  is  his  divine  eye,  which  sees, 
desires,  and  experiences  enjoyment.  "He  obtains  all  worlds  and 
all  desire  who  has  found  out  and  who  understands  that  self." 
This  last  explanation  of  Prajapati  is  not  wholly  satisfactory  to 
the  reader  as  it  stands,  but  in  other  passages  of  the  Upanishads, 
as,  for  example,  in  the  earlier  passage  from  the  Chandogya 
quoted  above,  the  ultimate  bliss  lies  in  the  absorption  of  the 
individual  in  the  real — a  state  in  which  self-consciousness  is 
lost.  Only  ignorance,  then,  and  persistence  in  the  thought  of 
a  separate  self,  as  Robert  Ernest  Hume  says,34  keeps  one  from 
becoming  Brahma.35 

It  follows  that  he  who  would  attain  to  an  actual  realization 
of  the  "That  art  thou,"  of  the  identity  of  his  soul  with  the 
world-soul,  must  be  emancipated  from  individual  existence; 
and  while  in  a  sense  perfect  emancipation  may  be  realized  only 
in  death,  an  effective  approach  thereto  may  be  gained  by  free- 


MAXIM  AND  THEME  FROM  1875 191 

ing  the  soul  from  desire  and  from  pleasure  and  pain.  Through 
the  practice  of  the  effacement  of  the  bodily  self,  known  as 
yoga,  the  aspirant  may  arrive  at  the  state  described  in  the 
Bhagavad-Gita36  as: 

The  state  in  which  his  mind  finds  rest 

By  Yogic  practices  restrained, 

In  which  by  self  beholding  Self 

He  rests  content  in  Self  alone.37 

For,  as  we  read  farther  on  in  the  Bhagavad-Gita: 
The  Yogin  who  has  stilled  the  mind, 
And  all  his  passions  has  suppressed, 
Who  has  no  sins,  and  Brahm  become, 
Finds  verily  the  Bliss  Supreme.38 

The  means  for  arriving  at  this  state  of  indifference  to  the 
bodily  affections  are  various.  The  Maitrayana-Brahmana 
Upanishad  opens  with  the  story39  of  a  king  who  put  his  son  on 
his  throne  and  retired  to  the  forest  as  a  penance;  and  there 
he  stood  in  the  forest  with  uplifted  arms,  looking  at  the  sun,  for 
a  thousand  days.  Then  a  saint  "who  knew  the  Self"  came  near, 
burning  with  splendour,  and  the  king  said  to  him,  "O  Saint,  I 
know  not  the  Self,  Thou  knowest  the  essence  (of  the  self). 
.  .  .  .  Teach  it  to  us."  The  saint  replies  that  what  he  asks  is 
difficult  to  obtain  and  advises  him  to  choose  other  pleasures, 
but  the  king  refuses.  Whereupon  the  saint,  well  pleased,  calls 
him  the  banner  of  his  race  "quickly  obtaining  a  knowledge  of 
Self."  Then  the  saint  goes  on  to  explain  the  nature  of  the  real 
or  higher  self  as  distinguished  from  the  elemental  self.  Farther 
on  in  the  same  Upanishad  the  remedy  for  the  elemental  self  is 
said  to  be  acquirement  of  a  knowledge  of  the  Veda,  perform- 
ance of  one's  duty  (which  means  obeying  the  rules  of  the  order 
to  which  one  belongs),  ascetic  penance,  and  meditation.  He 
who  exercises  knowledge,  penance,  and  meditation,  we  read,  is 


192  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

freed  from  the  senses  and  attains  bliss  imperishable — union  with 
the  Supreme  Self.40  So  in  Edwin  Arnold's  Secret  of  Death,  which 
gives  the  content  of  the  first  three  Vallis  of  the  Katha  Upa- 
nishad  in  the  form  of  a  dialogue  between  a  Brahman  priest 
and  an  Englishman,  we  read: 

Whoso  hath  laid  aside  desire  and  fear, 
His  senses  mastered,  and  his  spirit  still, 
Sees  in  the  quiet  light  of  verity 
Eternal,  safe,  majestical — HIS  SOUL! 

....  Only  by  soul  itself 
Is  soul  perceived — when  the  soul  wills  it  so! 
There  shines  no  light  save  its  own  light  to  show 
Itself  unto  itself! 

None  compasseth 
Its  joy  who  is  not  wholly  ceased  from  sin, 
Who  dwellest  not  self-controlled,  self-centred — calm, 
Lord  of  himself!  It  is  not  gotten  else!41 

It  is  by  these  means  which  lead  the  soul  to  realize  its  union 
with  Brahma  that  it  becomes  free  at  last — free  to  do  what  it 
will  and  free  from  Karma — from  reincarnation — the  lot  of  all 
who  do  not  so  attain;  for  again  we  read  in  Arnold's  Secret  of 

Death: 

If  a  soul  depart 
Instructed — knowing  itself — and  knowing  truth; — 
And  how  that  Brahma  and  the  Self  are  One — 
Then  hath  it  freedom  over  all  the  worlds:42 

And  in  the  Bhavagad-Gita  also:43 

Whoso  thus  knows  himself,  and  knows  his  soul 

Purusha,44  working  through  the  qualities 

With  Nature's  modes,  the  light  hath  come  for  him! 

Whatever  flesh  he  bears,  never  again 

Shall  he  take  on  its  load.  Some  few  there  be 

By  meditation  find  the  Soul  in  Self 


MAXIM  AND  THEME  FROM  1875 193 

Self -schooled;  and  some  by  long  philosophy 
And  holy  life  reach  thither;  some  by  works: 
Some,  never  so  attaining,  hear  of  light 
From  other  lips,  and  seize  and  cleave  to  it 
Worshipping;  yea!  and  those — to  teaching  true — 
Overpass  Death!45 

From  this  very  sketchy  digression  on  one  phase  of  Indian 
philosophy  we  can  see  that  the  famous  "That  art  thou,"  with 
the  "know"  implied,  is  similar  in  force  to  yv&di  aeavrov  in  its 
metaphysical  and  mystical  use,  and  that  the  Indian  mystic's 
methods  for  attaining  such  self-knowledge  are  likewise  similar 
to  those  employed  by  Western  mystics  in  past  centuries. 
Rabindranath  Tagore,  whose  philosophy  of  life,  it  has  been  ob- 
served, is  "nothing  but  the  ancient  wisdom  of  India  restated  to 
meet  the  needs  of  modern  times,"46  employs  the  phrase  "Know 
thyself"  with  its  old-time  force  in  The  Home  and  the  World,47 
where  he  also  uses  it,  with  less  approval,  in  the  sense  of  knowing 
what  one  can  do — what  success  one  can  achieve  as  the  world 
counts  success.  Sandip,  who  craves  worldly  power  even  at  the 
expense  of  crushing  his  nobler  inclinations,  reflects : 

The  chief  controversy  between  Nikhil  and  myself  arises  from  this: 
that  though  I  say  "know  thyself,"  and  Nikhil  says  "know  thyself,"  his 
interpretation  makes  this  "knowing"  tantamount  to  "not-knowing." 

"Winning  your  kind  of  success,"  Nikhil  once  objected,  "is  success 
gained  at  the  cost  of  the  soul:  but  the  soul  is  greater  than  success " 

"You  only  lose  your  soul  if  you  seek  it  in  your  success." 

"Where,  then,  is  this  wonderful  soul?" 

"Where  it  knows  itself  in  the  infinite  and  transcends  its  success." 

And  in  an  address  entitled  "Thou  Shalt  Obey,"  in  which 
Tagore  tries  to  rouse  his  countrymen  to  shake  off  the  sloth 
of  their  subjection  to  authority  in  politics  and  to  social  and 
religious  tradition,  he  declares: 


194  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

The  wakeful,  ageless  God  of  India  calls  today  on  our  soul, — the  soul 
that  is  measureless,  the  soul  that  is  undefeated,  the  soul  that  is  destined 
to  immortality,  and  yet  the  soul  which  lies  today  in  the  dust,  humbled 
by  external  authority,  in  the  fetters  of  blind  observances.  With  blow 
upon  blow,  pang  upon  pang,  does  He  call  upon  it  "Atmdnam  Viddhi: 
know  thyself!"48 

The  influence  of  pantheistic  philosophy  upon  the  thought 
of  our  times  in  the  West  has  led  to  a  frequent  restatement  of 
the  relation  between  man's  knowledge  of  himself,  his  neighbor, 
and  his  God  in  terms  of  the  essential  oneness  of  them  all.49 
The  self  in  this  case  is  always  the  true  self — the  divine  in  man 
— as  distinguished  from  the  multiple  other  selves  which  consti- 
tute collectively  his  elemental  or  lower  self.  This  essential 
union  of  man  with  his  neighbor  and  his  God  and  the  far-reach- 
ing consequences  of  such  a  realization  are  expressed  in  The 
Spirit  of  the  New  Philosophy  by  John  Herman  Randall.50  He 
holds  that  while  each  self  is  in  a  certain  sense  "a  unique  ap- 
pearance in  a  finite  centre  of  the  underlying  Reality,"  in  their 
deeper  essence  all  individual  selves  are  one;51  that  both  science 
and  philosophy  today  are  prepared  to  prove  "that  men  in  their 
true  selves  are  nothing  more  or  less  than  dynamic  differentia- 
tions of  Being  in  a  unitary  cosmic  organism  under  phenomenally 
individualized  and  personalized  forms";52  and  that  only  as  one 
comes  to  actually  experience  the  true  self  within  does  he  see 
the  essential  self  in  other  people.53  So  the  quest  for  God  be- 
comes man's  search  for  his  true  self54  and  "true  self-knowledge 
alone  leads  to  true  knowledge  of  others."55  "Know  thyself!" 
he  urges  toward  the  close  of  the  book,  "and  the  surface  self 

vanishes The  deeper  Self  emerges  and  all  unselfishness 

is  attained 'Love  your  neighbor  as  yourself  ....  be- 
cause your  neighbor  is  yourself."56  With  this  last  statement 
we  may  compare  Witter  Bynner's  poem  entitled  "How  Can  I 


MAXIM  AND  THEME  FROM  1875 195 

Know  You  All?"  in  which  he  asks  of  the  passing  throngs  with 
all  their  sorrows,  joys,  and  needs : 

How  shall  I  know  you  whom  I  need  to  know, 

Discovering  your  splendid  lonely  souls 

And  mating  them  with  mine? — 

Out  from  among  you  comes  a  voice  in  answer : 
"How  can  you  know 

Him  whom  you  will  not  know? 

We  are  yourself."57 

And  Reginald  Robbins  has  the  same  idea  in  some  of  his  rather 
involved  philosophical  poems.  In  his  "Matthew  Arnold"  and 
in  his  "Paul"  he  attempts  to  give  a  present-day  pantheistic 
interpretation  to  the  maxim,  in  distinction  from  what  he  con- 
ceives to  be  its  individualistic  meaning  for  the  Greeks  of  old. 

His  Matthew  Arnold  says  :58 

Let  me  weigh  now  well 
The  modern  meaning.  Let  me  learn  my  soul. 

It  is  the  old,  old  word:  this,  "Know  Thyself;" 

Stale  as  their  Greek  confusion  of  that  self 

With  "me"  or  "thee."  And  I  have  feign'd  some  Greek, 

Impersonated  some  atomic  mould 

Of  private  purpose;  whilst  my  social  worldhood 

Was  yet  not  of  me;  .... 

My  self,  my  person  now  must  be  the  world 
Of  modern  implication,  a  self-world, 

His  Paul  appears  soliloquizing  in  Athens  just  before  he  makes 
his  famous  address  on  Mars  Hill  :59 

What  was  their  utmost  wisdom?  "Know  thyself!" 

And  what  the  outcome  of  much  earnest  search 

Unguided  of  the  Christ?  Just  this  at  last: 

The  self  is  atom,  item  each  alone, 

Indifferently  to  the  wider  world 

Of  other  selves  sustaining  each  its  fate — 


1 96  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

Ah  ...  .  take  the  Christ  as  type  of  each 
Successful  in  the  knowledge  of  Himself 
And  only  therefore  centrally  of  God 
And,  as  God,  Savior  to  the  race  of  men! 

....  I  or  thou 
Saved  but  by  proof  that  each  is  yet  his  world 
And  therefore  universal  and  the  God. 
It  is  an  instance,  then,  of  "Know  thyself" 
The  God  thou  art 6o 

In  Wagner's  essay  entitled  Erkenne  dich  selbst,  from  the 
opening  paragraph  of  which  we  quoted  above,  he  applies  the 
maxim  repeatedly  to  a  knowledge  of  national  characteristics. 
" Whoever  finds  the  command  erkenne  dich  selbst  applied  to 
the  situations  of  the  world?"  he  asks;  and  he  goes  on  to  say 
that  in  the  then  current  anti- Jewish  agitation,61  men  were  not 
showing  any  inclination  to  search  deeply  into  themselves — to 
criticize  thoroughly  the  will  and  spirit  of  the  nature  and  civili- 
zation that  is  called  German.  Were  the  maxim  applied  in  a 
comparison  of  the  Jewish  and  Christian  religions,  it  would  be 
hard  to  prove  the  superiority  of  the  revelation  through  Christ, 
in  view  of  the  mockery  to  his  teachings  which  Christian  civili- 
zation affords.  Likewise,  the  application  of  the  maxim  to  eco- 
nomic conditions  would  reveal  the  fact  that  the  Jews  are  ex- 
perts where  the  Germans  are  bunglers.  The  root  of  the  trouble 
really  lies  in  the  weakened  pride  of  race  in  Germany  following 
the  Thirty  Years'  War,  which  gave  the  Jews  their  chance.  The 
people  of  Germany  are  no  longer  pure-bred.  Racial  pride  has 
given  place  to  vanity  and  greed;  whereas  the  Jewish  race  af- 
fords a  remarkable  instance  of  race  persistence.  As  compared 
with  the  Jew,  then,  the  German  stands  at  a  disadvantage  in 
these  particulars.  And  yet  there  is  an  encouraging  factor  in 
the  situation  in  the  reawakening  of  a  certain  German  instinct 


MAXIM  AND  THEME  FROM  1875 197 

through  this  agitation  —  something  higher  than  racial  instinct 
— nobler  and  higher  than  any  instinct,  really — a  spirit  of  pure 
Menschlichkeit.62  Fatherland  and  mother-tongue  are  common 
bonds,  and  a  study  of  the  origins  of  that  language  takes  one 
back  into  the  remote  past  and  gives  him  a  quickened  sense  of 
the  dignity  of  German  manhood,  as  he  realizes  that  he  belongs 
to  one  of  the  primal  branches  and  recalls  the  greatness  of  his 
forefathers.  With  such  a  perspective,  these  foreigners  can  be 
estimated  aright  on  the  basis  of  the  spirit  of  the  essential 
dignity  of  man  in  their  work.  But  this  spirit  of  pure  Mensch- 
lichkeit finds  no  voice  in  the  jargon  and  clash  of  present-day 
political  parties;  none  of  those  parties  would  think  of  testing 
itself  by  the  maxim.  Yet  only  as  "Know  thyself"  is  applied 
to  the  inner  reaches  of  existence  may  a  solution  of  the  problem 
be  hoped  for. 

It  is  a  national  self-knowledge,63  then,  that  Wagner 
calls  for — a  challenge  to  the  German  people  to  take  their 
own  measure  religiously,  economically,  and  politically,  and 
to  find  the  true  essence  of  their  possible  national  spirit. 
It  is  this  national  self-knowledge,  too,  that  Wagner's  friend, 
Nietzsche,  advocates  in  his  essay  on  The  Use  and  Abuse  of 
History.  The  essay  consists  of  a  protest  against  the  educational 
system  of  Germany,  with  its  second-hand  learning — its  attempt 
to  produce  culture  by  an  artificial  mastery  of  the  facts  regard- 
ing past  civilizations,  instead  of  leaving  the  youthful  spirit  free 
to  develop  a  native  culture  from  within,  out  of  life  as  he  learns 
to  live  it  in  the  present.  In  answer  to  the  query  "How  can  such 
a  native  culture  be  attained?"  Nietzsche  replies,64  "The  Del- 
phic God  cries  his  oracle  to  you  at  the  beginning  of  your  wan- 
derings, Erkenne  dich  selbst,J;  and  he  goes  on  to  show  that  there 
was  a  century  in  Greek  history  when  the  Greeks  found  them- 
selves in  danger  of  being  submerged  by  what  was  past  and 


198  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

foreign — Semitic,  Babylonian,  Lydian,  Egyptian — but  by  tak- 
ing the  advice  of  Delphi,  they  turned  their  thoughts  back  to 
themselves  and  their  actual  needs,  letting  all  merely  apparent 
necessities  go.  In  this  way  they  recovered  the  possession  of 
themselves,  increased  their  treasures  of  inherited  culture,  and 
became  models  for  the  culture  of  the  future. 

That  perfect  self-knowledge  is  impossible  of  attainment  is 
expressed  by  Nietzsche  in  his  Schopenhauer  as  Educator,  and  by 
Oscar  Wilde  in  his  De  Profundis.  Nietzsche  is  speaking  of  the 
man  who  wants  to  be  himself — to  be  individual  and  independent 
of  others  in  his  thoughts  and  desires — and  he  asks,  "But  how 
can  we  'find  ourselves'  again,  and  how  can  man  'know  himself? 
He  is  a  thing  obscure  and  veiled :  if  the  hare  have  seven  skins, 
man  can  cast  from  him  seventy  times  seven,  and  yet  will  not  be 
able  to  say  'Here  art  thou  in  very  truth ;  this  is  outer  shell  no 
more.'  "6s  And  Oscar  Wilde  says  in  his  De  Profundis66  that 
while  mechanical  people  who  desire  to  be  something  separate 
from  themselves  know  where  they  are  going  and  go  there,  people 
whose  desire  is  solely  for  self-realization  never  know  where 
they  are  going.  And  he  adds : 

They  can't  know.  In  one  sense  of  the  word  it  is  of  course  necessary,  as 
the  Greek  oracle  said,  to  know  oneself:  that  is  the  first  achievement  of 
knowledge.  But  to  recognize  that  the  soul  of  man  is  unknowable,  is  the 
ultimate  achievement  of  wisdom.  The  final  mystery  is  oneself.67 

The  various  methods  suggested  for  arriving  at  a  certain 
degree  of  self-knowledge  include  some  which  are  long  since 
familiar  and  others  which  are  essentially  new  to  this  period. 
The  assistance  which  other  people  may  lend  takes  various 
forms.  A  unique  method  of  learning  to  know  what  others  think 
of  us  is  suggested  in  a  short  essay  on  "Self -Knowledge"  by  Wil- 
liam Stebbing68 — a  method  which  reminds  us  somewhat  of  the 
one  described  in  Boccalini's  Advertisements  from  Parnassus69 
Anyone  who  is  really  eager  to  know  the  sort  of  creature  he  is 


MAXIM  AND  THEME  FROM  1875 199 

can  find  out  by  managing  "to  overhear  the  talk  of  his  family, 
servants,  friends,  and  townsmen";  and  it  is  suggested  that  this 
common  "tittle-tattle"  be  organized  in  some  way  and  sold  in 
sealed  envelopes  through  a  public  bureau,  so  that  a  man  may 
have  a  composite  portrait  of  himself  as  he  looks  to  others.  The 
old  idea  that  man  may  know  himself  better  by  associating  with 
those  who  are  of  superior  character  is  again  implied  in  Percy 
Mackaye's  Jeanne  D'Arc,  where  Catherine  says  of  the  Maid: 

I  know  not  what  she  did, 
But  what  she  is  shone  through  her  as  a  lamp 
Into  my  wretched  heart,  and  made  me  weep 
To  know  myself.70 

Associating  with  people  in  general — living  and  working  among 
them — is  recommended  as  a  means  to  self-knowledge  by  Dr. 
Henry  Maudsley  in  his  Life  in  Mind  and  Conduct?1  It  is  in 
connection  with  his  discussion  of  the  maxim  that  he  writes: 

He  (man)  should  know  other  selves  in  order  to  know  himself,  and 
know  them  as  he  can  only  adequately  know  them,  by  work  among  them, 
for  he  will  see  reflected  in  them  what  he  cannot  see  in  himself  by  intro- 
spection. Social  life  is,  as  it  were,  life — reflection  of  self  in  others  and  of 
others  in  self;  in  which  interaction  lies,  perhaps,  the  very  origin  and  princi- 
ple of  conscious  life,  conscious  and  self-conscious.  As  the  mental  constitu- 
tion of  a  present  self  contains  quintessentially  many  selves  which  have 
been  (many  millions,  perhaps,  if  we  count  five  hundred  years  back),  this 
.capacity  of  knowing  others  and  himself  ....  will  depend  on  the  quality 
and  quantity  of  these  quintessences  and  their  reciprocal  action.72 

The  mirror  figure  continues  to  be  used  fancifully  in  connec- 
tion with  the  theme  of  self-knowledge,  for  we  have  a  suggestive 
poem  entitled  "The  Mirror"  by  Lawrence  Binyon,  and  the  all- 
pervading  mirror  of  truth  in  Percy  Mackaye's  Scarecrow. 
Binyon  pictures  the  speaker  in  the  poem  taking  up  a  mirror 
which  has  been  long  abandoned  in  a  deserted  room,  and  musing 
upon  the  image  it  reflected  in  days  gone  by  and  upon  what  a 


200  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

marvel  it  would  be  if  the  mirror  should  open  up  the  heart  of 
man: 

No  man  hath  seen  his  soul 
Save  for  a  glimpse  in  the  night 
Brief  as  an  ember  of  coal 
Blown  for  an  instant  bright. 
To  see  his  own  soul  as  it  is 
Eternity  must  enter  him. 

Mirror,  couldst  thou  show  the  spirit  this, 
Then  within  this  narrow  room 
Were  the  judgment  and  the  Doom. 
For  by  so  much  as  its  own  self  it  knew 
Searched  by  that  burning  vision  through  and  through 
To  the  innermost  of  where  it  crouched  and  hid 
Amid  the  husks  of  the  mean  deeds  it  did, 

To  the  uttermost  of  what  its  eager  passion 
Caught  of  the  glory  springing  to  re-fashion 
Hope  and  the  world,  and  great  with  pity  saw 
Life  darkly  wrestling  with  the  angel,  Law — 
By  such  a  measure,  molten  in  that  fire 
Should  the  soul  mete  itself  on  God's  desire, 
Suffer  at  last  all  wisdom,  and  endure 
The  beam  and  vision  of  a  thought  all-pure, 

0  were  not  this  to  taste  Heaven's  dawn,  or  dwell, 
Because  of  knowledge,  in  the  pains  of  Hell?73 

In  Percy  Mackaye's  Scarecrow,  Rachel,  the  niece  of  Justice 
Merton  who  had  once  wronged  the  witch  Goody  Rickby,  be- 
comes interested  in  magic  and  buys  of  Goody  Rickby  a  mirror 
which  has  the  power  of  revealing  people  as  they  actually  are. 
Rachel  and  her  lover  Richard  make  trial  of  it,  and  the  mirror 
shows  them  to  be  just  as  they  have  always  seemed  to  each 
other.  But  presently  Lord  Ravensbane  is  introduced.  He  is  a 


MAXIM  AND  THEME  FROM  1875—         201 

scarecrow  underneath,  kept  alive  by  his  pipe,  and  sent  by 
mother  Rickby  to  win  Rachel,  by  way  of  revenge  upon  her 
uncle.  He  claims  to  be  an  English  lord,  sent  by  someone  whom 
the  Judge  has  known  abroad.  Rachel  becomes  interested  in 
him,  and  he  grows  to  love  her  sincerely.  At  an  afternoon  recep- 
tion given  in  his  honor  Rachel  is  to  wear  a  tassel  of  silk  if  she 
accepts  his  suit.  She  does  not  wear  it  at  first,  but  finally  allows 
him  to  pin  it  on  her.  As  he  is  in  the  act  of  doing  so,  Richard 
draws  the  curtain  which  has  been  veiling  the  magic  mirror,  and 
Ravensbane  is  revealed  as  the  scarecrow  which  he  is  under- 
neath his  outward  show !  Later,  night  finds  Ravensbane  pros- 
trate before  the  mirror,  addressing  his  image  in  a  long  speech, 
in  the  course  of  which  he  exclaims : 

Hark  then,  Spirit  of  Life!  ....  I  have  cried,  "This  world,  the  heav- 
ens, time  itself,  are  mine  to  conquer,"  and  I  have  thrust  forth  mine  arm 
to  wear  Thy  shield  forever — and  lo!  for  my  shield  Thou  reachest  me  a 
mirror — and  whisperest:  "Know  thyself!  Thou  art — a  scarecrow;  a 
tinkling  clod,  a  rigmarole  of  dust,  a  lump  of  ordure,  contemptible,  super- 
fluous, inane!"  ....  Thou  hast  vouchsafed  to  me,  Spirit, — hahaha — to 
know  myself.  Mine,  mine  is  the  consummation  of  man — even  self-con- 
tempt!74 

Then  presently  he  looks  out  into  the  night,  and,  fancying  that 
he  sees  Rachel  high  up  among  the  twinkling  leaves,  he  declares 
that  Rachel's  love  has  given  him  a  soul — that  he  is  &  man. 
And  the  image  in  the  glass  makes  answer : 

And  prithee,  what's  a  man?  Man's  but  a  mirror, 
Wherein  the  imps  and  angels  play  charades, 
Make  faces,  mope,  and  pull  each  other's  hair — 
Till  crack!  the  sly  urchin  Death  shivers  the  glass, 
And  the  bare  coffin  boards  show  underneath.7* 

When  Dickon  later  tries  to  make  people  believe  that  the  mirror 
was  bewitched  and  that  what  they  have  seen  was  not  Ravens- 
bane but  an  image  conjured  up  by  witchcraft,  Ravensbane 


202  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

tells  the  truth  regarding  his  origin,  throws  away  his  pipe,  and 
dies;  but  before  he  finally  expires,  he  sees  himself  in  the  glass 
once  more — and  this  time  it  is  a  man's  image  that  he  sees. 
The  points  of  similarity  between  this  play  and  Hawthorne's 
Feathertop  are  obvious,  although  as  Percy  Mackaye  explains 
in  his  Preface,  his  purpose  and  his  treatment  of  the  plot  are 
essentially  different.  But  whether  the  author  is  merely  satir- 
izing "coxcombry  and  charlatanism,"  as  did  Hawthorne,  or 
showing  the  "tragedy  of  the  ludicrous,"  as  does  Mackaye,  the 
role  of  the  magic  mirror  is  to  make  its  victim  known  to  others, 
and  especially  to  himself,  as  he  actually  is;  and  the  play  is  thus 
pertinent  to  our  subject. 

Bernard  Shaw,  like  Lucian  of  old,76  applies  the  mirror  figure 
to  the  drama  in  saying  that  when  people  grow  up  to  the  point 
where  they  realize  that  they  do  not  see  themselves  in  a  mirror 
of  glass  as  they  look  to  others,  they  "begin  to  demand  that  the 
Stage  shall  be  a  mirror  of  such  accuracy  and  intensity  of  illumi- 
nation that  they  shall  be  able  to  get  glimpses  of  their  real 
selves  in  it."77  Besides  the  drama,  other  types  of  literature  con- 
tinue to  be  regarded  as  a  help  toward  a  better  self-knowledge. 
Hamilton  Wright  Mabie  says  of  books  in  general,  "Who- 
ever knows  them  in  a  real  sense  knows  life,  humanity,  art,  and 
himself."78 

That  sorrow  and  suffering  are  an  aid  to  self-knowledge  is 
indicated  by  a  passage  in  George  Moore's  novel  Sister  Teresa.™ 
Evelyn  tells  the  Prioress  about  her  father's  last  hours,  and  of 
how  he  exclaimed  just  before  he  died,  "The  wall  has  been  taken 
away."  She  interprets  that  to  mean  that  in  the  last  moment 
of  our  lives  everything  becomes  clear  to  us — that  "then  we 
learn  what  we  are.  We  do  not  know  ourselves  until  then."  At 
length  the  Prioress  replies,  "It  is  through  such  experiences  <as 
yours)  that  we  discover  our  real  selves,  and  the  way  that  God 


MAXIM  AND  THEME  FROM  1875 203 

intends  us  to  walk  in.  It  is  only  through  great  grief  that  we 
come  to  know  ourselves. " 

As  regards  the  value  of  self -reflection,  some  authors  are 
hostile  to  the  idea,  and  others  recommend  it  with  approval. 
Nietzsche's  attitude  is  mostly  one  of  hostility.  We  read  in  his 
essay  on  Schopenhauer  as  Educator,  "This  digging  into  one's 
self,  this  straight,  violent  descent  into  the  pit  of  one's  being,  is 
a  troublesome  and  dangerous  business  to  start.  A  man  may 
easily  take  such  hurt,  that  no  physician  can  heal  him."80  So 
in  one  of  his  lectures  on  The  Future  of  Our  Educational  Institu- 
tions*1 he  says  that  if  a  student  be  given  academic  freedom  with- 
out great  leaders,  his  self -analysis  is  disappointing82  and  he  falls 
from  the  heights  of  his  eagerly  desired  self-knowledge  into  an 
ironical  skepticism.  In  the  "Criticism  of  Philosophy"  in  his 
Will  to  Power  he  writes: 

We  regard  it  as  almost  a  sign  of  degeneration  when  an  instrument 
endeavors  to  "know  itself:"  we  are  instruments  of  knowledge  and  we 
would  fain  possess  all  the  precision  and  ingenuousness  of  an  instrument — 
consequently  we  may  not  analyze  or  "know"  ourselves.83 

And  the  whole  burden  of  his  poem  Between  Birds  of  Prey  is  a 
protest  against  the  hermit,  contemplative  life  of  Zarathustra. 
He  calls  him  " Self-hangman"  in  two  stanzas,  and  in  another 
he  characterizes  him  as 

A  sick  man  now 

Sick  of  serpent's  poison, 

A  captive  now 

Who  hast  drawn  the  hardest  lot: 

In  thine  own  shaft 

Bowed  as  thou  workest, 

In  thine  own  cavern 

Digging  at  thyself, 

Helpless  quite, 

Stiff, 

A  cold  corse 


2o4  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

Overwhelmed  with  a  hundred  burdens, 

Overburdened  by  thyself, 

A  knower! 

A  self -knower! 

The  wise  Zarathustra  !84 

Again  in  his  Ecce  Homo85  he  says  in  effect  that  if  one's  life 
task  is  a  great  one,  nothing  could  be  more  dangerous  than  for 
a  man  to  come  face  to  face  with  himself  beside  it.  The  fact 
that  one  becomes  what  he  is  presupposes  that  he  has  not  the 
remotest  idea  of  what  he  is.  The  mistakes  which  he  makes  un- 
consciously and  the  earnestness  wasted  on  duties  outside  his  real 
life  work  all  have  their  value.  Nosce  te  ipsum  would  be  the  sure 
road  to  ruin,  but  forgetting  one's  self,  belittling  and  narrowing 
one's  self  are  an  aid  in  developing  the  powers  which  he  must  not 
recognize.  And  in  his  Human  All-Too-Human  he  declares: 

Active,  successful  natures  act,  not  according  to  the  maxim  "Know 
thyself,"  but  as  if  always  confronted  with  the  command  "Will  a  self,  so 
you  will,  become  a  self."  ....  Inactive  contemplative  natures,  on  the 
other  hand,  reflect  on  how  they  have  chosen  their  self  "once  for  all"  at 
their  entry  into  life.86 

Dr.  Maudsley  also  heartily  disapproves  of  introspection,  for 
he  says  in  his  chapter  on  "Character,"  "The  Delphic  .... 
'Know  thyself.'  But  how?  No  man  will  do  that  by  looking 
into  himself,  even  if  he  live  in  a  closet  and  occupy  his  life  in  a 
continual  self-examination ;  ....  To  know  self  by  prying  into 
self  will  not  carry  any  one  very  far  in  self-knowledge."87 

But  despite  the  extreme  practicality  of  our  day,  and  the 
ban  put  upon  introspection  by  many,  including  certain  psy- 
chologists, there  are  those  who  still  insist  upon  the  value  of  a 
certain  amount  of  self -reflection.  They  are  found  not  alone  in 
the  pulpits  of  our  churches  and  in  the  mystical  Orient.  "Enter- 
ing the  Silence"  is  a  cardinal  practice  of  the  "New  Thought" 


MAXIM  AND  THEME  FROM  1875 205 

movement,  for  instance;  and  in  the  scholastic  world  we  find 
such  men  as  Professor  Warner  Fite  of  Princeton  and  the  late 
Professor  Ladd  of  Yale  among  the  advocates  of  the  "inward 
look."  Horatio  Dresser  writes  in  his  Voices  of  Freedom: 

If  the  New  Thought  be  a  sovereign  remedy  for  all  ills,  even  evil  itself, 
it  must  strike  deep  into  the  life.  It  is,  in  a  word,  the  remedy  of  under- 
standing. "Know  thyself,"  for  self-knowledge  reveals  that  quality  or 
tendency  in  us,  in  mind,  doctrine,  or  temperament,  which  is  still  unde- 
veloped, still  hostile  to  the  spirit,  still  trouble-bearing  and  selfish.88 

Professor  Fite  quotes  a  sentence  from  Plato's  Apology — "The 
unexamined  life  is  not  fit  for  human  living" — as  a  title-page 
motto  for  his  book  on  Moral  Philosophy,  and  defines  morality 
as  "the  self-conscious  living  of  life."  He  explains: 

To  be  moral  is  to  be  thoughtful,  to  be  conscious;  which  to  me  means 
to  be  self-conscious;  to  live  one's  life,  if  possible,  in  the  clear  consciousness 

of  living For  this  conception  of  morality  I  might,  perhaps,  offer 

reputable  authority  by  quoting  those  two  famous  sayings  of  Socrates, 
"Virtue  is  knowledge"  and  "Know  thyself,"  and  I  might  then  call  myself 
a  disciple  of  Socrates.  s  .  .  .  The  examined  life — in  other  words,  the  criti- 
cal life.  Given  the  examined  life,  I  say  that  nothing  else  is  needed.89 

And  Ladd  says  in  his  chapter  on  "The  Worth  and  Way  of  Self- 
knowledge"  that  in  order  to  gain  the  self-knowledge  of  supreme 
worth,  we  must  discover  our  "better  Self."90  The  general  fea- 
tures of  this  better  self  are  "somewhat  plainly  marked  by  the 
experience  of  the  race  as  that  experience  is  embodied  in  the 
principles  of  art,  of  morals,  and  of  religion";  but  each  individu- 
al has  his  own  peculiar  best  self,  which  he  can  by  an  act  of  will 
make  dominant,  just  as  he  can  any  one  of  his  conflicting  per- 
sonalities. To  find  this  best  self,  self -reflection  within  limits  is 
essential.  Introspection  has  been  too  much  disparaged.  Ladd 
is  aware  that  the  inward  look  has  its  dangers,  but  he  maintains 
that  it  is  the  "absolutely  indispensable  organ  of  all  attempts  at 


206  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

accurate  and  complete  self-knowledge,"91  and  that  "the  Ameri- 
can public  ....  most  sorely  needs  more  seriously  and  steadily 
to  look  inward."93  To  find  the  best  self,  he  says  further,  we 
must  bring  the  self  that  we  are  into  comparison  with  the  ideal — 
with  what  God  thinks  of  us — and  we  may  therefore  "expand  the 
exhortation  of  the  ancient  oracle:  Know  thy  present  real  Self 
by  comparison  with  the  ideal  of  thy  yet  better  and  truer  Self, 
as  seen  from  the  divine  point  of  view."93  To  know  "the  divine 
point  of  view"  is  to  know  God;  and  this  oft-stated  truth  that 
man  can  fully  know  himself  only  by  knowing  God  is  also  ex- 
pressed in  David  Ritchie's  comment  upon  the  maxim  in  his 
Philosophical  Studies.  "Is  it  not  the  metaphysician's  universal 
that  alone  explains  the  real  individual  and  the  Self?"  he  asks: 
".  .  .  .  Tv&di  aeavTov:  but  he  who  knows  himself  must  know 
God.  To  attempt  to  know  self  (individual)  without  God  (uni- 
versal) is  to  find — the  devil."94 

The  power  of  love  to  reveal  us  to  ourselves  which  was  indi- 
cated by  a  few  passages  in  the  last  chapter  becomes  still  more 
insistent  in  the  literature  of  the  present  period.  This  thought 
has  found  expression  in  the  novel  of  every  age,  of  course,  and 
to  a  considerable  extent  in  the  drama;  and  it  is  doubtless  large- 
ly a  matter  of  chance  that  the  first  play  to  bear  the  title  "Know 
Thyself"  should  make  its  appearance  in  the  twentieth  century. 
The  play  Connais-Toi,  by  Paul  Hervieu,  is  a  play  of  rapid 
movement,  in  which  two  young  men  fall  in  love  with  two  mar- 
ried women  respectively,  both  of  whom  are  surprised  at  the 
tremendous  effect  which  this  new  love  has  upon  them,  and 
whose  husbands  are  brought  to  realize  that  their  love  for  their 
wives  is  great  enough  to  make  them  forgive.  The  strongest 
character  in  the  play  is  Siberan,  an  army  general,  who  has 
uncompromising  views  of  morality  and  discipline,  and  who  is 
wont  to  be  rather  harsh  in  his  methods  of  "training"  people. 


MAXIM  AND  THEME  FROM  1875 207 

His  immediate  family  consists  of  a  young,  second  wife,  Clarisse, 
and  a  grown  son  by  his  first  wife,  named  Jean.  Siberan's  cousin 
Doncieres  and  his  wife  Anna  are  living  with  him  at  the  time 
the  play  opens.  The  remaining  character  is  Pavail,  a  young 
officer  and  a  protege  of  Siberan's  first  wife.  Jean  is  in  love 
with  Anna,  and  she  meets  him  at  Pavail's  home  on  a  day  when 
Jean  is  supposed  to  be  out  of  town.  Siberan  and  Doncieres 
surprise  Anna  there,  and  think  Pavail  the  guilty  man;  where- 
upon Siberan  dismisses  Pavail  and  advises  Doncieres  in  no  un- 
certain terms  to  get  a  divorce.  Pavail,  fully  expecting  that  he 
must  depart,  ventures  to  make  known  the  real  truth  to  Clarisse, 
and  at  the  same  time  discloses  his  hitherto  secret  love  for  her. 
She  admits  that  she  cares  for  him  to  a  certain  extent,  supposing 
this  to  be  their  last  farewell.  Then  Jean  confesses  to  his  father, 
and  Pavail  is  retained.  He  approaches  Clarisse  and  asks  that 
she  go  away  with  him.  She  demands  that  he  shall  refrain  from 
seeing  her  for  several  weeks  until  she  can  decide  what  to  do, 
but  yields  to  his  request  for  just  one  kiss  before  they  part.  As 
she  grants  his  request,  Siberan  appears!  Clarisse  offers  to  leave 
Siberan,  but  he  finally  breaks  down  and  begs  her  to  stay. 
Then  in  accordance  with  the  wish  of  Anna  and  Jean,  he  advises 
Doncieres  to  retain  his  wife  also.  At  the  play's  close,  Siberan 
remarks  concerning  Doncieres:  " Yesterday  I  should  have 
thought  him  grotesque  and  abject."  Clarisse  asks  if  he  were  a 
better  man  yesterday,  and  he  replies:  "I  didn't  know  myself 
as  well."  And  Clarisse  queries  (with  humility) :  "Who  knows 
himself?"95 

It  is  observable  that  in  Percy  Mackaye's  Scarecrow  the 

power  of  love  is  the  compelling  power  which  makes  the  bundle 

i  of  rubbish  into  a  real  man  at  last;  and  in  Heyse's  story,  told 

iin  a  previous  chapter,  while  not  so  stated,  it  is  love  which 

I  brings  Franz  to  himself.  We  are  reminded  in  this  connection 


208  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

of  a  pertinent  little  sonnet  by  James  Vila  Blake,  in  which  the 
lover  says  of  his  awakening : 

Thou  art  my  heart's  voyage  of  discovery 
And  regions  new;  for  till  I  was  thy  lover 
I  knew  not  of  myself;  beneath  the  cover 
Of  unproved  life  I  lay  full  piteously. 
Then  freed,  self-known,  I  burst  captivity, 


Thence  I  into  myself  with  heart  intense, 
Half  fear,  more  joy,  all  marvel,  did  explore 
The  realms  of  me,  for  love's  most  leal  behoof.96 

And  it  is  Maeterlinck  who  says  of  love  in  the  broader  sense, 
"When  you  love  ....  the  knowledge  of  self  that  you  will  have 
found,  deep  down  in  your  love — this  it  is  that  will  help  to 
fashion  your  life."97 

It  was  for  want  of  the  right  leadership  at  a  crucial  period 
we  remember,  that  Nietzsche  pictures  the  young  student  tur: 
ing  away  from  his  miserable  self  in  despair  and  becoming  an 
ironical  skeptic.  In  the  passage  in  his  Schopenhauer  as  Edu- 
cator from  which  we  quoted  above  he  answers  his  question 
"How  can  a  man  know  himself?"  by  pointing  out  the  work  of 
the  true  teacher,  who  leads  youth  to  a  higher  self-realization: 

This  is  the  most  effective  way:  to  let  the  youthful  soul  look  back 
on  life  with  the  question  "What  hast  thou  up  to  now  truly  loved,  what 
has  drawn  thy  soul  upward,  mastered  it  and  blessed  it  too?  Set  up  these 
things  that  thou  hast  honored  before  thee,  and,  maybe,  they  will  show 
thee,  in  their  being  and  their  order,  a  law  which  is  the  fundamental  law 
of  thine  own  self  ....  thy  true  being  lies  not  deeply  hidden  in  thee,  but 
an  infinite  height  above  thee,  or  at  least  what  thou  dost  commonly  take 
to  be  thyself.  The  true  educators  and  moulders  reveal  to  thee  the  real 
groundwork  and  import  of  thy  being.98 

That  self-knowledge  is  the  end  of  education  is  also  implied  in 
a  brief  passage  in  Nietzsche's  Dawn  of  Day:  "Erkenne  dich 
selbst  is  the  whole  of  science.  Only  when  man  shall  have  ac- 


t 


MAXIM  AND  THEME  FROM  1875 209 

quired  a  knowledge  of  all  things  will  he  be  able  to  know  him- 
self. For  things  are  but  the  boundaries  of  men."99 

Nietzsche  and  Dr.  Maudsley  commend  the  study  of  science 
as  an  aid  to  self-knowledge.  "Hoch  die  Physik!"  cries 
Nietzsche  in  The  Joyful  Wisdom™  "for  teaching  men  to  ob- 
serve"; and  he  asks  how  many  of  the  few  who  know  how  to 
observe,  observe  themselves.  Erkenne  dich  selbst,  he  adds,  "in 
the  mouth  of  a  God  and  spoken  to  man,  is  almost  a  mockery." 
Our  lack  of  self-observation,  he  thinks,  is  shown  in  our  super- 
ficial moral  judgments,  for  we  decide  that  an  action  is  right 
because  it  seems  right  to  us,  without  undertaking  an  intelligent 
scrutiny  of  the  basis  of  our  judgment.  So  in  his  Beyond  Good 
and  Evil101  he  would  apparently  except  the  subjectivity  of  the 
scientific  man,  as  of  a  Socrates,  from  an  otherwise  objective 
interpretation  of  the  maxim.  "What  meaneth  that  God  who 
crieth  Erkenne  dich  selbst?"  he  asks:  "Did  it  mean,  perhaps, 
' cease  to  be  concerned  about  thyself!  Become  objective!'  And 
Socrates?  And  the  Scientific  man?"  In  these  passages  from 
Nietzsche  it  is  an  indirect  benefit  of  scientific  study  which  he 
emphasizes — namely,  the  acquiring  of  the  scientific  attitude 
of  mind — which  should  lead  to  a  more  intelligent  study  of  self. 
With  Dr.  Maudsley,  on  the  other  hand,  it  is  the  facts  of  science 
which  are  emphasized  as  essential.  He  says  in  his  discussion  of 
the  apothegm: 

He  <man>  must  know  himself  in  nature — know  something  of  the  con- 
stitution of  the  physical  world  and  of  the  physical  constitution  of  his  own 
being,  else  his  self-knowledge  will  leave  a  large  part  of  self  unknown. 
....  A  more  modest  and  hopeful  way  of  discerning  the  main  lines  of 
character  will  be  by  observation  and  reflection  on  his  doings  in  Nature — 
what  they  have  been,  and  by  what  natural  laws  they  became  what  they 
were.102 

The  influence  of  the  evolutionary  point  of  view  implied  in 
the  sentence  just  quoted  appears  in  Nietzsche's  Human,  All- 


210  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

Too-Human  and  in  William  Knight's  Varia.  Nietzsche  postu- 
lates that  we  need  to  know  the  history  of  the  race  if  we  would 
attain  self-knowledge.  "Immediate  self-observation  is  not 
enough,  by  a  long  way,  to  enable  us  to  learn  to  know  our- 
selves," he  asserts;  "We  need  history,  for  the  past  continues 
to  flow  through  us  in  a  hundred  channels.  We  ourselves  are, 
after  all,  nothing  but  our  own  sensations  at  every  moment  of 
this  continued  flow."103  We  need  travel  to  understand  history, 
he  says  further;  but  we  can  travel  without  going  far,  for  the 
last  three  centuries  survive  near  at  hand,  and  the  different 
strata  may  be  seen  sometimes  even  in  given  families  and  indi- 
viduals. Practice  in  the  art  of  travel  reveals  the  ever  growing, 
ever  changing  ego,  and  so  Selbst-Erkenntniss  becomes  All- 
Erkenntniss  as  regards  the  entire  past.  William  Knight,  in  the 
following  passage  from  his  Varia,  lays  stress  upon  the  im- 
portance of  a  knowledge  of  the  development  of  human  thought 
and  belief: 

The  old  Socratic  maxim  "know  thyself"  lies  at  the  very  root  of  all 
human  progress,  personal,  social,  or  political.  We  must  know  ourselves 
before  we  can  know  anything  else  adequately.  And  in  this  connection  all 
wide  historical  study,  study  which  deals  with  the  rise,  decline,  and  fall  of 
opinion,  and  the  resurrection  of  belief  the  wide  world  over,  is  one  of  the 

most  important I  take  the  Socratic  mottoL  "know  thyself,"  as  the 

basis  of  everything  else  worth  knowing I  maintain  that  unless  we 

do  know  ourselves,  getting  initiation  into  the  true  lines  of  thought,  and 
the  ultimate  springs  of  human  action,  we  are  incompetent  to  form  a  just 
opinion  on  any  contemporary  problem.1^ 

With  the  last  sentence  of  the  above,  finally,  we  may  well 
compare  a  brief  but  significant  statement  by  Kojiro  Sugimori, 
professor  of  philosophy  in  the  University  of  Waseda,  Tokyo, 
in  the  Introduction  to  his  book  entitled  Principles  of  the  Moral 
Empire:  "Nationalism  no  less  than  internationalism  is  and 
ought  to  be  more  intelligently  founded  on  the  sole  basis  of 


MAXIM  AND  THEME  FROM  1875 211 

personalism.  Know  thyself  is  once  again  what  we  have  to  real- 
ize"105— a  statement  which  links  our  maxim  indirectly  with  the 
growing  interest  in  world  relationships,  so  characteristic  of  the 
present  day. 

These  passages  quoted  from  the  literature  and  philosophy 
of  the  past  fifty  years  indicate  that  man's  interest  in  yvooBi 
aeavrov  remains  still  fresh  and  unabated  until  the  present  hour. 
Now,  as  always,  some  of  the  old-time  connotations  occur,  but 
they  are  less  evident  than  formerly.  It  is  the  newer  lines  of 
thought,  rather,  which  occupy  the  foreground  in  connection 
with  recent  citations  of  the  maxim;  for  man's  self-knowledge 
today  has  come  to  involve  a  knowledge  of  the  subconscious 
realm,  a  knowledge  of  the  development  of  the  race  of  which 
he  is  a  part  from  both  the  evolutionary  and  the  historical 
standpoint,  and  a  conception  of  the  spiritual  unity  of  mankind. 


This  study  of  YJ'cofli  aeavrbv  as  a  whole  may  serve  to  indi- 
cate the  way  in  which  men's  thoughts  have  widened  con- 
cerning its  possible  applications  during  the  centuries  since  it 
first  appeared  on  Apollo's  temple.  Taken  in  early  times  to 
mean  simply  "Know  your  measure,"  we  have  observed  how 
it  developed  various  specific  meanings,  such  as  "Know  what 
you  can  and  cannot  do,"  "Know  your  special  bent,"  "Know 
your  place,"  "Know  the  limits  of  your  wisdom,"  and  "Know 
your  human  and  mortal  limitations."  Then  in  the  hands  of 
the  philosophers  of  old  it  came  to  mean  "Know  your  soul," 
now  in  the  narrower  sense  of  "Know  your  disposition,  your 
faults,"  and  again  in  the  sense  of  "Know  your  soul  in  its  rela- 
tion to  the  body,"  and  especially  "in  relation  to  the  higher 
Spiritual  Essence."  With  the  Neo-Platonists  in  particular  the 


212  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

maxim  was  given  a  metaphysical  interpretation  which  made 
it  synonymous  with  self -consciousness.  With  the  Fathers  of 
the  Christian  church  it  came  to  mean  "Know  your  soul"  in  the 
sense  of  knowing  that  while  we  are  made  in  the  image  of  God, 
we  are  sinners  in  need  of  repentance,  and  that  if  duly  repent- 
ant, the  soul  may  become  immortal.  We  have  seen  how  during 
the  Middle  Ages  (and  later  in  some  sections)  the  Mystics  made 
self-knowledge  a  cardinal  duty,  for  reflection  on  our  sinful 
nature  was  regarded  as  the  first  step  in  the  graded  career  of 
the  Mystic  toward  the  mergence  of  his  soul  with  the  Divine, 
through  which  alone  perfect  self-knowledge  could  be  attained. 
With  the  Renaissance  came  a  revival  of  the  interpretations  given 
the  maxim  in  the  Classical  period,  illustrated  frequently  by  pic- 
ture and  fable;  and  these  older  forces  remained  dominant  until 
the  beginning  of  the  modern  epoch,  dating  roughly  from  the 
French  Revolution.  Then,  while  the  old  individual  and  subject- 
ive connotations  persisted,  there  came  a  new  note  into  many  of 
the  discussions  of  the  apothegm.  It  was  not  only  taken  by  cer- 
tain German  philosophers,  especially  Hegel,  as  the  watchword  of 
speculative  philosophy,  but  it  came  to  be  colored  increasingly 
by  the  modern  objective  and  social  point  of  view,  with  a  conse- 
quent marked  reaction  against  introspection  and  subjective 
self -analysis.  And,  finally,  in  the  present  period,  it  is  man's 
self  in  relation  to  his  fellows  and  in  relation  to  the  development 
of  the  race  which  constitute  the  chief  essentials  in  his  self- 
knowledge — an  objective,  scientific  knowledge,  on  the  one 
hand;  and  a  philosophical  conception  of  the  oneness  of  human- 
ity as  an  expression  of  the  all-pervading  self,  on  the  other. 

The  question  "How  can  a  man  know  himself?"  has  been 
variously  answered  down  the  ages.  Many  of  the  means  sug- 
gested are  more  or  less  superficial,  of  course,  because  the  writer 
is  thinking  of  the  maxim  in  some  of  its  lighter  forces.  If  he 
takes  it  in  the  sense  of  knowing  one's  faults,  for  instance,  he 


MAXIM  AND  THEME  FROM  1875 213 

tells  us  that  we  may  learn  what  they  are  from  a  friend,  or  a 
neighbor,  or  a  relative,  as  the  case  may  be,  whether  directly 
by  word  of  mouth,  or  by  some  special  device  for  eliciting  the 
secret.  But  if  he  means  self  in  the  larger  sense  of  all  that  goes 
to  make  the  man — his  inheritance,  near  and  remote,  his  envi- 
ronment, his  temperament,  his  associations — obviously  the 
means  recommended  must  be  wider  and  deeper.  Such  means, 
while  variously  expressed,  may  be  broadly  classed  as  educa- 
tion in  the  fullest  sense,  literary,  historical,  scientific;  the  expe- 
riences of  life,  such  as  work,  and  love,  and  sorrow,  and  contact 
with  our  fellows  generally;  and  the  inner  illumination  of  the 
Universal  Spirit,  to  the  realization  of  which,  foes  to  introspec- 
tion notwithstanding,  a  certain  degree  of  reflection  is  essential. 
It  would  be  interesting  to  try  to  predict  what  the  remainder 
of  the  twentieth  century  will  contribute  to  the  thought  gather- 
ing around  this  apothegm.  Surely  the  international  note, 
struck  first  by  Goethe  in  this  connection  and  sounded  again 
in  the  passages  last  quoted  above,  will  become  more  insistently 
linked  with  it;  and  it  will  doubtless  take  on  many  another 
connotation,  hitherto  unconceived,  as  mankind  continues  to 
grow  in  self-knowledge. 

On  the  left  of  the  archway  under  the  beautiful  tower  of 
the  Harkness  Memorial  Building  at  Yale  University  there  is 
inserted  in  the  wall  a  little  piece  of  sculpture  in  low  relief.  The 
design  is  that  of  a  seated  figure  with  the  traditional  features  of 
Socrates,  resting  his  arm  on  a  tablet  which  bears  the  inscription 
yv&du  aeavrov  (see  Frontispiece).  Thus  the  twentieth-century 
temple  of  learning  takes  up  in  its  turn  the  message  of  Apollo's 
temple  of  over  twenty-five  hundred  years  ago,  and  bears  it  aloft 
to  the  youth  of  today — the  youth  whom  the  God  of  the  ages 
is  ever  challenging  to  a  deeper  and  wider  knowledge  of  the 
meaning  of  its  self-hood. 


NOTES  AND  REFERENCES 

CHAPTER  I 

For  a  fuller  discussion  of  various  points  touched  upon  in  this  Introduction, 
see  my  "  'Know  Thyself  in  Greek  and  Latin  Literature"  (dissertation,  Univer- 
sity of  Chicago,  191 7),  pp.  1-11. 

1.  Plutarch  says  in  De  E  apad  Delphos,  c.  3,  that  five  sages — Chilon,  Thales, 
Solon,  Bias,  and  Pittacus — met  at  Delphi  and  consecrated  the  E,  signifying  that 
they  were  only  five  in  number,  as  a  protest  against  Cleobulus  and  Periander 
usurping  the  name  of  "Sage,"  and  that  the  old  wooden  E  was  known  as  the  "E 
of  the  Sages."  This  statement  taken  in  conjunction  with  Plato's  Protagoras  343 
A-B  may  imply  that  the  sages  met  at  Delphi  twice — once  to  dedicate  the  maxims, 
and  again  to  protest  that  there  were  five  of  them,  not  seven.  Rabelais  has  this 
passage  in  mind,  perhaps,  when  he  says  that  EI,  "also  divinely  written  and  trans- 
mitted from  the  Heavens,"  appeared  some  time  after  yv&di  aeavrbv  {Pantagruel 
iv.  49).  The  fact  that  the  wooden  E  was  called  "the  E  of  the  Sages,"  however, 
indicates  for  its  presence  on  the  temple  a  possible  antiquity  equal  to  that  of  the 
inscribed  maxims. 

2.  N.H.  vii.  32. 

3.  Clem.  Alex.  Strom,  v,  viii.  45. 

4.  Aristotle  Eth.  Endem.  i.  1. 

5.  "Die  delphischen  Sprtiche,"  Abhandlungen,  I,  225  ff. 

6.  "Weiteres  liber  die  Bedeutung  des  E  zu  Delphi  und  die  iibrigen  ypa.fxp.aTa 
Ae\<t>LKa,"  Philologus,  LX,  81  ff. 

7.  Sat.  Menipp.  xxix.  16.  130  (ed.  Riese). 

8.  Goettling's  hexameter  thus  reads:  el.  0ec3  ripa.  (no/ju^e)  irapai  to  vbp.iap.a 
\apa^ov. 

9.  iii.  22. 

10.  vi.  31. 

11.  Roscher's  hexameter  reads:  el.  0ew  -qpa.  vbp.ois  irtldev.  <f>eldev  re  xpovoio. 

12.  x.  24.  1. 

13.  ix.  10. 

14.  Sat.  i.  6.  6. 

15.  Somn.  Scip.  i.  9.  2. 

16.  229  E.  Cf.  Sir  Thomas  Browne,  Miscellanies,  Tract  XI,  entitled  "Of 
Apollo's  Answers":  "Though  EI  were  inscribed  over  the  gate  of  Delphos,  yet 
was  there  no  uniformity  in  his  deliveries"  (ed.  Sayle  [Edinburgh,  1907],  III, 

399)- 

214 


NOTES  AND  REFERENCES,  CHAPTER  II      215 

17.  De  def.  orac,  c.  31. 

18.  Bk.  Ill,  c.  xi.  Sammt.  Werke  (Leipzig,  1839),  XXIV,  213. 

19.  "Die  Spriiche  der  delphischen  Saule,"  Philologies,  XXIV,  195  ff. 

20.  "Die  Bedeutung  des  E  zu  Delphi  und  die  ubrigen  ypan/xara  AeX^iKd," 
Philologus,  LIX,  21  fif. 

21.  "Das  E  zu  Delphi,"  Hermes,  XXXVI,  411  ff. 

22.  P.  23  (Berlin,  1925). 

23.  II,  176,  n.  2  (Cambridge  University  Press,  1925). 

24.  x.  24.  4. 

25.  Cook,  op.  cit.,  p.  178. 

26.  XXIX  (1925),  239-46. 

27.  343  A-B. 

28.  x.  24.  1. 

29.  Stob.  Flor.  iii.  79. 

30.  See  Hitzig's  Pausanias,  III,  Pt.  II,  749. 

31.  ix.  10. 

32.  N.H.  vii.  32. 

33.  De  Legibus  i.  22. 

34.  Sat.  xi.  27. 

35.  Stob.  Flor.  xxi.  26. 

36.  E  apnd  Delphos,  c.  2. 

37.  De  Pyth.  or.,  c.  29. 

CHAPTER  II 

For  a  fuller  discussion  of  the  material  in  this  chapter,  see  my  article  on 
"  'Eyyva  wapa  5'  art]  in  Literature,"  Classical  Philology,  XXII  (1927),  121  ff. 

1.  Clem.  Alex.  Strom,  i.  14.  61. 

2.  Diodorus  Siculus  ix.  9. 

3.  Charmides  165  A. 

4.  Quoted  in  schol.  on  Plat.  Charm.  165  A. 

5.  Clem.  Alex.  loc.  cit. 

6.  C.  3. 

7.  Strom,  ii.  15.  70. 

8.  Vss.  69-71. 

9.  Vss.  171  ff. 

10.  Op.  cit.,  ix.  9 — x.  2. 

11.  vi.  57. 

12.  ix.  11.  8  (71). 

13.  Philologus,  LX,  100. 

14.  Pp.  107  ff. 

15.  No.  452  (ed.  Allen,  II,  318). 


216  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

1 6.  No.  187.  The  poem  is  as  follows: 

"Haec  habeas,  septem  sapientum  efftngere  dicta 

Atque  ea  picturis  qui  celebrare  velis. 

Optimus  in  rebus  modus  est,  Cleobulus  ut  inquit: 

Hoc  trutinae  examen,  sive  libella  docet. 

Noscere  se  Chilon  Spartanus  quemque  iubebat: 

Hoc  speculum  in  manibus,  vitraq:  sumpta  dabunt. 

Quod  Periander  ait,  fraena  adde,  Corinthius,  irae; 

Pulegium  admotum  naribus  efficiet. 

Pittacus  at  ne  quid,  dixit,  nimis:  haec  eadem  aiunt, 

Contracto  qui  gith  ore  liquefaciunt. 

Respexisse  Solon  finem  jubet:  ultimus  agris 

Terminus  haud  magno  cesserit  ipse  Jovi. 

Heu  quam  vera  Bias,  est  copia  magna  malorum: 

Musimoni  insideat  effice  Sardus  eques. 

Ne  praes  esto,  Thales  dixit:  sic  illita  visco 

In  laqueos  sociam  parra,  meropsq:  trahit." 
Andrea  Alciati  (1492-1552)  was  professor  of  law  in  several  prominent  uni- 
versities, including  Avignon,  Bourges,  Pavia,  and  Bologna.  His  epitaph  reads: 
"He  completed  the  whole  circle  of  learning,  and  was  the  first  to  restore  the  study 
of  the  laws  to  its  ancient  dignity."  His  first  edition  of  Emblemata  was  brought  out 
in  1522.  He  formed  them  on  classical  models,  and  his  influence  on  the  emblem- 
writers  of  Europe  was  very  great. 

17.  Introduction  to  History  of  Greek  Philosophy  (translated  by  E.  S.  Hal- 
dane  [London,  1892-96],  I,  161). 

18.  Greek  Philosophy  ii  D  (translated  by  Haldane,  II,  334). 

19.  Grundlage  der  Moral  ii.  9  (translated  by  A.  B.  Bullock  [London,  1915], 
p.  no).  For  the  theme  without  reference  to  the  maxim,  see  Sir  Walter  Raleigh, 
Instructions  to  His  Son  {Works  [London,  1751],  II,  351-52): 

"Suffer  not  thyself  to  be  wounded  for  other  men's  faults  and  scourged  for 
other  men's  offences;  which  is,  the  surety  for  another;  for  thereby  millions  of 

men  have  been  beggared  and  destroyed If  any  friend  desire  thee  to  be  his 

surety,  give  him  a  part  of  what  thou  hast  to  spare;  if  he  press  thee  further,  he  is 

not  thy  friend  at  all If  thou  be  bound  for  a  stranger,  thou  art  a  fool:  if 

for  a  merchant,  thou  putteth  thy  estate  to  learn  to  swim:  if  for  a  churchman, 
he  hath  no  inheritance:  if  for  a  lawyer,  he  will  find  an  evasion  by  a  syllable  or 
word,  to  abuse  thee.  If  for  a  poor  man,  thou  must  pay  it  thyself:  if  for  a  rich 
man,  it  need  not:  therefore  from  suretyship,  as  from  a  manslayer,  or  enchanter, 
bless  thyself " 


NOTES  AND  REFERENCES,  CHAPTER  III     217 

CHAPTER  III 

For  a  more  detailed  study  of  the  first  few  pages  of  this  chapter,  see  my 
article  "Mrjdev  "Ayav  in  Greek  and  Latin  Literature,"  Classical  Philology,  XXI 
(1926),  132  ff. 

1.  See  Henry  Osborn  Taylor,  Ancient  Ideals  (New  York:  Putnam's,  1896), 
I,  202-3:  "This  relationship  of  proportion  carries  as  a  consequence  a  universal 

principle  of  Greek  life  and  thought,  one  stated  in  many  forms Homer  does 

not  state  it  broadly  ....  but  the  course  of  the  epics  points  to  it After 

Homer,  the  idea  found  general  expression  in  the  phrase  nydev  ayav — nothing  too 
much;  then  in  the  word  aw^poavvq, — wise  temperance.  Hesiod  bids  men  preserve 
moderation;  the  half  is  better  than  the  whole.  Theognis  applies  the  principle  to 
feelings — do  not  be  stirred  too  much  by  good  or  evil;  it  is  the  part  of  man  to 

bear  all Thoughts  like  these  pervaded  all  Greek  life  as  principles  of  action 

which  Greeks  should  follow.  They  showed  themselves  in  love  of  harmony, 
proportion,  beauty,  in  desires  for  the  best  that  life  offered;  yet  nothing  too  much, 
nothing  too  costly,  nothing  entailing  too  great  ill;  but  a  weighing  of  all  things." 

2.  W.  &  D.,  vss.  40  and  694,  respectively. 

3.  Anth.  Lyrica,  Poet.  Eleg.  XXIX,  frag.  2  (ed.  Bergk). 

4.  Vss.  219,  335,  401,  657. 

5.  No.  216  (ed.  Christ). 

6.  Vs.  1062. 

7.  Vss.  72,  327. 

8.  Vss.  34-35,  238,  244. 

9.  Vs.  824. 

10.  Frag.  154  (ed.  Nauck). 
n.  Vs.  711. 

12.  Vs.  1695. 

13.  Vs.  265. 

14.  See  supra,  p.  8. 
IS-  165  A. 

16.  228  E. 

17.  45  D. 

18.  247  E. 

19.  ii.  12.  14-13.  1. 

20.  rJTTov  re  'ayav  airavra  77  Set. 

21.  Op.  cit.  ii.  21.  13-14. 

22.  ix.  9.  3. 

23.  C.  28. 

24.  Cf.  the  sepulchral  inscription  which  begins  with  the  words:  Mrjdev  ayav 
<t>povkcov.  dvrjTa  8e  iravd'  opcov  rjXdov  ....  (Kaibel,  Ep.  Graec.  ex  Lapid.  conlecta 
v.  615). 


218  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

25.  C.  19  and  c.  21. 

26.  Pal.  Anth.  vii.  683  (ed.  Stadtmueller) .  Pindar  {Isth.  6.  44)  first  makes 
the  Bellerophon  story  symbolic  of  too  great  ambition.  The  story  is  told  in 
Francis  Thynne's  Emblemes  and  Epigrames,  No.  53,  under  the  title  "Not  to 
Climbe  Overhighe"  (published  by  author,  a.d.  1600;  ed.  by  Furnivall  for  Early 
English  Text  Society,  London,  1876). 

27.  Pal.  Anth.  v.  298. 

28.  Ibid.,  ix.  no.  Alpheius  of  Mitylene  probably  flourished  in  the  time  of 
Augustus. 

29.  Vss.  35-38. 

30.  Vs.  61. 

31.  Sat.  Menipp.  v  (6)  (ed.  Riese). 

32.  v.  12  (36). 
33-  iii-  22. 

34.  xv.  2  (94).  43. 

35.  ix.  6. 

36.  Ep.  Ix.  7,  and  cviii.  21. 

37.  Ep.  cxxx.  11. 

38.  De  Considerations  i.  8  {Pat.  Lat.,  CLXII,  738). 

39.  Ep.  xcix  (Pat.  Lat.,  CCII,  549).  Peter  Cellensis  was  abbot  of  the 
monastery  of  Moutier-la-celle  about  a.d.  1 150,  and  later  of  St.  Remigius. 

40.  Ep.  cii.  554. 

41.  John  of  Salisbury  (Joannes  Saresberiensis,  ca.  1120-80)  was  a  pupil  of 
Peter  Abelard  at  Paris,  and  later  a  clerk  in  the  service  of  Peter  Cellensis.  He 
sent  the  Polycraticus  to  Theobald,  archbishop  of  Canterbury  and  aide  to  Henry 
II,  when  he  was  attending  the  king  at  the  siege  of  Toulouse  in  n 59.  The  king 
sent  him  to  the  pope  to  obtain  permission  to  enter  Spain.  He  later  entered  the 
household  of  Theobald  and  remained  with  his  successor,  Thomas  a  Becket. 
After  Becket's  death,  he  became  bishop  of  Chartres.  His  writings  are  superior  to 
those  of  any  other  churchman  of  his  day. 

42.  Polycraticus,  Bk.  I,  c.  iv,  sec.  398a.  An  alternative  title  of  the  work  is 
De  Nugis  Curialium  et  Vestigiis  Philosophorum.  The  contemporary  poets  of 
Middle  High  German  had  much  to  say  of  Masse. 

43.  De  Remediis  Vtriusque  Fortunae,  Bk.  I,  Dial.  43. 

44.  De  Tranq.  An.  ix. 

45.  Op.  cit.  xv.  69  ff. 

46.  No.  126  (ed.  Allen  [Oxford,  1906],  I,  296-97).  Lord  Mountjoy,  an 
enthusiastic  student  himself,  was  a  long-continued  friend  and  for  many  years  a 
patron  of  Erasmus.  He  directed  the  studies  of  Prince  Henry,  and  became  Master 
of  the  Mint. 

47.  Colloquia  (ed.  London,  1717),  p.  398. 


NOTES  AND  REFERENCES,  CHAPTER  III     219 

48.  Parts  VII  and  XIV,  in  collection  by  Thomas  Crenius  (Lugduni  Bata- 
vorum,  1699),  pp.  113,  125. 

49.  Part  XI,  ibid.,  p.  118. 

50.  Symbolorum  et  Emblematum,  Bk.  II,  No.  16.  The  Latin  reads: 

"Ne  nimium  imprudens  impone  lacertis, 
Et  fortem  sternunt  pondera  iniqua  virum." 

51.  The  picture  of  the  overloaded  camel  appears  also  in  De  Boot,  Symbola 
Principum  (Amsterdam,  1686),  p.  47;  and  in  Houbraken's  Zinnebeelden, 
(Amsterdam,  1767),  No.  20,  p.  83,  under  the  motto  "Niet  meer  nog  minder." 

52.  Emblem  No.  186.  See  supra  p.  216,  n.  16. 

53.  No.  5  (ed.  Rotterdam,  1627),  pp.  26,  30.  Jacob  Cats  (b.  1577)  was  an 
eminent  Dutch  lawyer,  statesman,  and  poet.  He  held  high  offices  of  state.  He 
ranks  among  the  first  Dutch  lyric  poets  of  his  day.  His  emblem  books  comprise 
many  hundred  subjects.  The  grandmother  of  Joshua  Reynolds  brought  Cats' s 
book  to  England,  and  her  grandson  was  influenced  by  the  designs  for  Cats's 
work,  made  by  Adrian  van  de  Venne. 

54.  Emblemata  Politica,  No.  5  (ed.  Amsterdam,  1651),  p.  52.  M.  Zuerius 
Boxhornus  (d.  1653)  edited  several  Latin  works  and  wrote  The  Majesty  of  Kings; 
Dicta  Catonis;  etc. 

55.  No.  41.  This  work  is  dedicated  to  Baltasar,  son  of  Philip  IV,  who  died 
before  he  could  profit  by  it.  It  met  with  great  success — was  translated  into  all 
the  languages  of  Europe,  and  is  still  valued  in  Spain.  Fajardo  was  long  in  the 
diplomatic  service  of  the  crown. 

56.  Select  Emblems  (Amsterdam,  1704),  p.  11  and  Plate  VI.  Cf.  Schoonoven, 
Emblems  (Amsterdam,  1648),  No.  12,  p.  37. 

57.  Plate  XVIII,  and  p.  35.  The  couplet  reads: 

"Cui  tempestivus  sit  Phoebus,  prospera  crescit 
Arbor;  at  immodicis  aestibus  usta  perit." 

58.  No.  10  and  Plate  X. 

59.  Antwerp,  161 2,  pp.  18-19.  Gomberville  reproduces  this  picture  under 
the  title  "La  Vertu  fuit  les  Excez"  in  his  La  Doctrine  des  Moeurs  (Paris,  1685) 
No.  9.  p.  34. 

60.  Theatro  Moral  De  la  Vida  Humana  (Amberes  1733). 

61.  Among  the  quotations  given  by  van  Veen  is  one  from  Ovid  Tristia  i.  1 : 

"Dum  petit  infirmis  nimium  sublimia  pennis, 
Icarus,  Icarus  nomina  fecit  aquis." 

62.  Sambucus,  Emblemata  (Antwerp,  1564),  p.  32.  Sambucus  (1531-83)  was 
a  physician  and  poet  in  Hungary.  He  wrote  on  historical  subjects  also,  and  was 
a  student  of  philosophy  and  literature. 

63.  Ruscelli,  Le  Imprese  Illustri  (Venetia,  1572),  Bk.  I,  c.  viii,  p.  13. 

64.  Part  I,  crisis  5.  Baltasar  Gracian  (1601-58),  one  of  the  three  greatest 


2  2o  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

Spanish  prose- writers  of  the  seventeenth  century,  published  Book  III  of  this,  his 
greatest  work — this  virtual  Pilgrim's  Progress — twenty-one  years  before  Bun- 
yan's  book  appeared.  He  was  punished  for  publishing  the  third  part  contrary  to 
orders  by  being  deprived  of  his  position  as  rector  and  teacher  of  Scripture  in 
the  Jesuit  College  at  Tarragona,  and  by  being  bidden  to  fast  on  bread  and  water. 

65.  Part  I,  crisis  13. 

66.  Bk.  IX,  fable  No.  11. 

67.  Thomas  Hobbes'  The  Whole  Art  of  Rhetoric,  c.  xiv,  and  Gomez  Texada's 
Leon  Prodigioso  (Seville,  1732),  II,  Pt.  II,  113,  are  not  included  in  the  list  be- 
cause the  passages  are  translations  from  Aristotle's  Rhetoric.  The  literature  of  the 
Renaissance  includes  many  poems  with  titles  such  as  "On  the  Meane  and  Sure 
Estate";  but  these  must  be  excluded  from  our  study,  as  well  as  prose  discussions 
of  the  mean  which  do  not  refer  to  jxydev  ayav.  Conspicuous  among  such  prose 
discussions  is  the  chapter  on  "Moderation"  in  Thomas  Elyot's  Governour,  Bk. 
Ill,  c.  xxi,  which  contains  allusions  to  several  characters  in  classical  literature 
who  refrained  from  excess. 

68.  Luigi  Chrysostomus  Ferrucci  (1797-1877),  poet  and  Dante  scholar,  was 
head  librarian  at  the  Mediceo-Laurentian  Library  at  Florence. 

69.  Guiseppe  de  Spuches  (1819-84),  a  much  beloved  Sicilian  classical  scholar 
and  poet,  was  a  man  of  rank  ("Principe  de  Galati  e  duca  de  Caccamo")  and 
president  of  the  Royal  Academy  of  Sciences,  Letters,  and  Arts  at  Panormi. 

70.  Blandes'  Proverbs  from  Erasmus  (London,  1814)  contains  some  interest- 
ing comments  on  Ne  quid  nimis.  The  maxim  appears  on  the  flyleaf  of  Edward 
N.  Gardiner's  Greek  Athletic  Sports  and  Festivals,  and  in  such  works  as  Scott's 
Unity  of  Homer  (p.  215).  A.  D.  Godley  in  his  lecture  on  Classical  Studies  in 
England  (Vanuxem  Lectures  for  1913),  p.  86,  quotes  it  in  criticism  of  current 
methods  of  classical  study.  He  says  there  is  too  much  reading  of  books  about 
books,  and  too  much  reading  for  examinations  on  the  part  of  the  undergraduate. 
Matthew  Arnold  has  much  to  say  of  the  mean  life  and  the  life  of  excess  in  Culture 
and  Anarchy,  especially  in  c.  ii.  The  little  poem  by  Preston  Gurney  entitled 
"Moderation"  expresses  the  spirit  of  the  maxim  to  an  unusual  degree,  although 
it  does  not  cite  it — 

"To  strike  so  hard  as  to 
Break  the  whip 
Hurts  the  whipper. 


Enough's  enough; 
What's  over  spills, — 
Loss  to  the  spiller. 
"To  overpay  an 
Honest  debt, 
Wastes  the  siller." 


NOTES  AND  REFERENCES,  CHAPTER  III     221 

71.  Written  August  7,  1749  (ed.  New  York,  1853;  No.  189). 

72.  C.  viii  (Riverside  ed.  [Boston,  1894],  IV,  181  f). 

73.  Arnold  Geulincx,  Opera  Philosophica,  tract.  IV,  sec.  8  (Hagae  Comitum., 
apud  Martinum  Nijkoff,  1893,  III,  119). 

74.  Last  poem  in  his  Sammtliche  Gedichte,  Prosaische  und  Poetische  Werke 
(Berlin,  1867-68),  V,  251  f. 

75.  Werke  (Leipzig,  1877),  II,  616.  William  Caldwell  in  his  Schopenhauer's 
System  in  Its  Philosophical  Significance  (Edinburgh  and  London,  1896),  pp.  $S3~ 
34,  says:  "Schopenhauer  has  little  sense  of  the  midway  region  in  morals,  the 
plain  broad  highway  of  life  on  which  ordinary  ethical  actions  are  exhibited. 
....  It  was  mainly  the  'excess'  and  the  'defect'  in  life  that  Schopenhauer  saw. 
....  He  had  no  real  inward  feeling  for  the  ethical  value  of  the  Greek  idea  of  the 
'limit'  in  things,  or  of  their  maxim  nrjdtv  iiyav,  or  of  Aristotle's  idea  of  virtue  as 
a  'mean'  between  two  extremes." 

76.  Op.  cit.,  c.  xxvii  (Bib.  Autores  Espanoles  [Madrid,  1873],  LXV,  345). 
Certain  of  the  poems  of  Herrick  seem  to  glance  at  this  use  of  the  maxim;  e.g., 
his  "Love  Me  Little,  Love  Me  Long,"  and  his  couplet  entitled  "Moderation." 

77.  Opere,  Vol.  Ill  (Panormi,  1877),  Carmina  Graeca,  Bk.  I,  No.  34. 

78.  Andrea  del  Sarto,  vs.  97. 

79.  Morgenrothe,  sec.  559  (translated  by  Kennedy,  ed.  Levy  [Edinburgh  and 
London,  191 1],  IX,  388). 

80.  Sec.  940,  "Die  Lehre  n-rjdev  iiyav  wendet  sich  an  Menschen  mit  iiberstro- 
mender  Kraft — nicht  an  die  Mittelmassigen." 

81.  I,  48  (ed.  Boston,  1859).  The  first  edition  was  published  in  1621,  and 
the  sixth  posthumously  in  165 1  from  MSS  containing  his  latest  corrections. 

82.  Fabularum  Libri  Tres,  Bk.  II,  No.  41  (ed.  Forocornelii,  1867). 

83.  American  Men  of  Letters  (Riverside  ed.,  Boston,  1885),  c.  xiii,  p.  297. 
Emerson  is  ever  the  foe  of  excess.    Note  especially  his  essay  The  Superlative. 

84.  See  sec.  II,  Nos.  69,  71,  72;  sec.  VI,  Nos.  378,  379,  381  (ed.  Brunschvigg; 
Paris:  Librairie  Hachette,  1923). 

85.  Sec.  I,  No.  35  (translated  by  Trotter  in  "Temple  Classics"  [London, 
1904]). 

86.  Ed.  Chalmers  (Boston,  1855),  VI,  211  ff. 

87.  Another  eighteenth-century  citation  of  the  maxim  occurs  in  the  follow- 
ing epigram  by  a  little-known  author,  Carolus  Desiderius  Royer.  It  was  pub- 
lished in  1 701  and  addressed  to  the  "Very  Reverend  Master  LEONARD 
NIMIS  S.  S.  of  Theology  and  Doctor  of  Laws  in  the  Parish  of  Voltburamen," 
etc.: 

"Pastor  es  insignis,  Contro-  &  Versista  peritus: 
Doctus  Chronologus,  Theologusque  gravis. 
Florini  Flores,  (potius  sed  dixero  Spinas: 


222  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

1111  Romanam  sic  pupugere  Fidem) 
Hi  Flores  veluti  nascentia  Tubera  nocte, 
Doctrinae  ad  Solem  jam  cecidere  tuae. 
Praelia  amas  Praeli,  sacra  est  tua  Penna  Bipennis. 
Nee  dicam  hie:  Ne  quid,  Mi  LEONARDE,  Nimis." 
— Epigrammata,  Bk.  IV,  No.  215 

88.  History  of  Philosophy  (translated  by  Haldane,  I,  161). 

89.  See  supra,  p.  20. 

90.  See  supra,  p.  23. 

91.  Opere  (Venezia,  1740),  II,  514  ff. 

92.  Geulincx  in  his  Ethica,  Tract.  IV,  sec.  8,  says  that  the  oracle  did  not  say 
"ne  quid  minus''''  because  the  temptation  of  the  devil  is  greater  on  the  side  of 
excess;  for  as  soon  as  anyone  decides  to  devote  himself  to  a  certain  virtue,  he 
has  already  turned  his  back  on  its  defect,  and  the  danger  is  that  he  will  not  stop 
but  will  go  beyond  the  mean,  since  the  devil  is  there  telling  him  to  go  on  as  he 
has  begun.  Cf.  Owen  Feltham,  Resolves  (London,  1840),  No.  45,  p.  103:  "When 
the  subject  of  our  hatred  is  sin,  it  cannot  be  too  deep:  when  the  object  of  our 
love  is  God,  it  cannot  be  too  high.  Moderation  may  become  a  fault.  To  be  but 
warm,  when  God  commands  us  to  be  hot,  is  sinful.  We  belie  virtue  into  the 
constant  dulness  of  mediocrity.  I  shall  never  condemn  the  nature  of  those  men 
that  are  sometimes  violent,  but  those  that  know  not  when  it  is  fit  to  be  so." 

93.  A  footnote  says  of  him,  "E  quel  Luigi  Cornaro,  che  tan  to  onor  fece  alia 
sobrieta  co'  suoi  scritti  e  colla  sua  vita  tirata  innanzi  di  la  dell'  anno  novantesimo 
quinto.  De  lui  abbiamo  una  lettera  alia  Speroni  che  gli  rispose  per  esercizio 
ragionando  contra  la  sobrieta,  a  poi  altra  volta  e  da  buon  senno  in  favore." 

94.  See  Cicero  Acad.  Quaest.  ii,  1.2.  According  to  the  story,  when  someone 
offered  to  teach  Themistocles,  who  had  a  remarkable  memory,  the  art  of 
remembering,  Themistocles  replied  that  he  should  prefer  learning  to  forget. 

95.  Opere,  II,  521. 

96.  In  difesa  dei  Sofisti,  Op.,  V,  430. 

97.  Cf.  Oscar  Wilde,  A  Woman  of  Importance,  Act  III:  Lady  Hunstanton: 
"...  I  don't  believe  in  women  thinking  too  much.  Women  should  think  in  modera- 
tion, as  they  should  do  all  things  in  moderation" ;  Lord  III.:  "Moderation  is  a  fatal 
thing,  Lady  Hunstanton.  Nothing  succeeds  like  excess." 

98.  Bk.  I,  c.  vi.  He  includes  the  nosce  tempus  of  Pittacus  also  in  what  he  has 
to  say. 

99.  Poems  of  Personality  (2d  ser.;  Cambridge:  Riverside  Press,  1909),  pp. 

54  ft". 

100.  Shelburne  Essays  (2d  ser.;  New  York  and  London:  Putnam's,  1906), 
pp.  188  ff. 


NOTES  AND  REFERENCES,  CHAPTER  IV     223 

CHAPTER  IV 

For  a  more  detailed  study  of  the  contents  of  this  chapter,  see  "  'Know 
Thyself  in  Greek  and  Latin  Literature,"  pp.  12  ff. 

1.  Frag.  116,  Diels. 

2.  Vss.  309-10. 

3.  Pythian  ii.  34.  See  scholiast. 

4.  Op.  cit.  ii.  4.  40-41. 

5.  vii.  2.  20-25. 

6.  48  C  ff. 

7.  Nic.  Eth.  iv.  9.  ii23&-ii25a. 

8.  Dio  Chrys.  Or.  iv.  150  R  ff. 

9.  Or.  lxvii.  361  R. 

10.  Plutarch  interprets  the  maxim  as  "Know  your  measure"  in  two  passages 
in  which  he  relates  it  to  situations  in  Homer's  Iliad — Sept.  Sap.  con.,  c.  21;  and 
Quo.  ad.  poet.  aud.  deb.,  c.  14.  In  Stobaeus'  Florilegium  (sixth  century  after 
Christ)  the  collection  of  quotations  under  title  of  Ilepi  ToO  Tv&di  Zeavrov  (c.  21) 
is  followed  by  one  on  the  corresponding  vice,  entitled  "Of  Pride." 

n.  Vss.  124-25. 

12.  ii.  28. 

13.  Op.  cit.  xi.  23  ff. 

14.  C.  ii.  Cf.  Rudolph  Eucken,  The  Problem  of  Human  Life  (New  York: 
Charles  Scribner's  Sons,  191 2),  p.  56.  He  defines  self-knowledge  in  the  early 
Greek  sense  as  "a  correct  estimate  of  one's  own  capacities,"  and  says  that  we 
must  know  precisely  how  much  we  are  capable  of  achieving  if  we  would  attain 
to  the  "just  mean"  and  avoid  undertaking  too  much  or  too  little. 

15.  Op.  cit.  ii.  21.  13. 

16.  Epictetus  hi.  22. 

17.  C.3. 

18.  A  prominent  rhetorician  of  the  Augustan  age,  who  wrote  on  various 
subjects  connected  with  Greek  oratory.  Plutarch  evidently  thinks  that  his 
ability  is  not  equal  to  his  task  in  this  instance. 

19.  Julian  Letter  to  Themistiiis  253  C  ff . 

20.  hi.  7.  9. 

21.  Ep.  ad  Quint,  hi.  6.  7. 

22.  De  tranq.  an.,  c.  12-13. 

23.  Op.  cit.  ii.  493  ff. 

24.  Another  special  application  of  knowing  what  one  can  do  is  knowing  the 
possible  achievements  of  the  will  in  the  moral  realm,  and  Epictetus  so  interprets 
the  maxim  in  a  passage  in  which  he  counsels  the  practice  of  indifference  to  loss 
and  pain  until  we  become  invincible  like  the  Olympic  victor  (i.  18.  17-23).  It  is 
possible  to  overestimate  one's  strength  of  will,  however;  and  St.  Augustine  says 


224 


THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 


that  one  who  does  so  fails  because  of  ignorance  of  himself,  as  Peter  did  of  old 
{In  John.  lxvi.  i). 
25.  164  Dff. 


26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
3i- 
32. 
33. 
34- 
35- 
36. 
37- 
38. 
39- 


Op.  tit.,  sec.  69. 

Ep.  41.  420  B. 

Stob.  Flor.  21.  27. 

vii.  14.  137. 

In  Ale.  I.  (ed.  Creuzer),  II,  214. 

De  Dogmata  Plat.  ii.  16. 

Vss.  401-3. 

229  B  ff. 

49  A. 

Apol.  23  B. 

Ibid.  23  A-B. 

iii.  9.  6-7. 

Vss.  841-42. 

Sec.  230. 

40.  Paul  Elmer  More  in  his  Delphi  in  Greek  Literature  ("Shelburne  Essays," 
2d.  ser.;  New  York  and  London:  Putnam's,  1906),  p.  201,  speaks  of  yvddi.  aeavrdv 
as  synonymous  with  phrases  like  "Think  as  a  mortal,"  and  takes  this  to  be  the 
first  meaning  of  the  maxim.  "Know  thyself,"  he  says,  "at  first  meant  simply, 
Know  thy  place  in  this  world  as  a  man  among  men,  and  as  a  mortal  subject  to 
the  immortal  gods." 

41.  Tertullian  Apol.  33. 

42.  Frag.  538  (ed.  Koch,  III,  161). 

43.  vi,  n.  1-3. 

44.  C.  28-29. 

45.  This  mosaic  floor,  found  west  of  the  Appian  Way  at  Rome,  is  now  in 
the  Thermae  Museum.  See  Helbig's  Guide  (English  translation),  II,  222,  No. 
1044. 

46.  No.  2. 

47.  No.  14. 

48.  De  Pro  prior  um  Animi  Cuiusque  Afectuum  Dignotione  et  Curatione  (ed, 
Kuhn),  V,  c.  ii,  3  f. 

49.  De  disc.  adul.  et  am.,  c.  1. 

50.  Phaedrus  iv.  9.  Cf.  Babrius,  No.  66. 

51.  ii.  15.  1213a.  14  ff. 

52.  De  inimic.  utilitat.,  c.  5. 

53.  De  Vita  Beata  vii.  27.  4-6. 

54.  Vss.  23  ff. 

55.  Op.  tit.  133  B-C. 


NOTES  AND  REFERENCES,  CHAPTER  IV  225 

56.  De  Fuga  et  Inventione  45  ff.;  De  Somn.  i.  46,  55. 

57.  Stob.  Flor.  21.  28. 

58.  Or.  vi.  183  B-C,  190  B. 

59.  The  Nature  of  Man  i.  16. 

60.  Ad.  Colot.,  c.  21. 

61.  i.  52.  Cf.  Lucretius  iii.  440-555. 

62.  Ad  Marcellam  32. 

63.  Stob.  Flor.  i.  88. 

64.  130  C. 

65.  Stob.  Flor.  21.  27. 

66.  iii.  18. 

67.  ii.  8.  10-13;  iii.  1. 

68.  Ep.  xx.  4.  3. 

69.  vi.  185  D  ff. 

70.  De  Fin.  iii.  73;  v.  44;  Tusc.  Dis.  v.  70. 

71.  De  Legibus  i.  58-62. 

72.  En.  iv.  3.  1. 

73.  Ew.  vi.  7.  41. 

74.  132  C. 

75.  En.  v.  3,  esp.  sec.  4. 

76.  P.  318. 

77.  I,  5  (ed.  Creuzer). 

78.  A  phrase  used  in  a  solemn  initiation  Eleusis. 

79.  Porphyry  tells  us  that  this  purification  consists  in  recognizing  that  the 
self  is  the  soul,  which  is  bound  together  with  an  alien  substance  (Stob.  Flor.  i.  88). 

80.  II,  7-8  (ed.  Creuzer). 

81.  Or.  vii.  225  D. 

82.  i.  9.  2-3. 

83.  Frag.  55  (ed.  Nauck). 

84.  In  some  instances  the  knowledge  of  self  is  shown  to  involve  a  better 
understanding  of  other  people. 

85.  See  supra,  p.  224,  n.  51. 

86.  See  supra,  p.  224,  n.  48. 

87.  Nat.  Quaest.  i.  17.  4. 

88.  In  Ale.  I.  (ed.  Creuzer),  II,  9. 

89.  Op.  cit.,  sec.  81. 

90.  x.  4.  10-12. 

91.  De  Sac.  (Sp.  Leg.  i),  262-65. 

92.  Op.  cit.  iii.  73. 

93.  Strom,  i.  60. 

94.  Octavius  17. 


226  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

95.  Op.  cit.  x.  5.  7. 

96.  Strom,  ii.  15.  70-71. 

97.  Exod.  10:28;  34:12;  Deut.  4:9. 

98.  Song  of  Songs  1:8;  Origen  In  Cant.  Cant.  ii.  56. 

99.  Hexaemeron  vi.  1. 

100.  Upocrex*  2eaur(3,  sec.  7. 

101.  Op.  cit.  vi.  42. 

102.  De  Isaac  et  Anima  i.  4.  16. 

103.  In  Cant.  Cant.  ii.  58. 

104.  See  Augustine  Confessions  xiii.  11.  12;  Dionysius  the  Areopagite  De 
Div.  Norn.  vii.  2.  470;  Prudentius  Apotheosis,  vss.  963-69. 

105.  Dion.  Areop.  De  Eccles.  Hierarch.  ii.  3.  4. 

106.  Athanasius,  frag.  In  Cant.  Cant.  (Pat.  Graec,  XXVII,  1348);  Gregory 
of  Pisida  Hex.  602  ff. 

107.  De  Civ.  Dei  viii.  10.  2.  See  also  Sermo  xlvii.  23. 

108.  Strom,  v.  4.  23. 

109.  Refutation  of  all  Heresies  x.  34. 
no.  In  Ps.  cxviii.  2.  13. 

in.  Strom,  iv,  6,  27. 

112.  In  Ps.  cxviii.  2.  14.- 

113.  Op.  cit.,  sec.  3. 

114.  Apologeticum,  c.  48. 

CHAPTER  V 

1.  See  Alan  d'Isle,  Elucidatio  in  Cant.  Cant.  (Pat.  Lat.,  CCX,  59) ;  St.  Bernard 
of  Clairevaux,  De  Purificatione  Beatae  Mariae,  Serm.  V,  sec.  n  (Pat.  Lat., 
CLXXXV,  84);  Walter  Hilton,  Scale  of  Perfection  (Westminster:  Art  and  Book 
Co.,  1908),  Bk.  I,  Pt.  Ill,  c.  ix. 

2.  For  instance,  Gregory  the  Great,  In  Sept.  Psalm.  Poenit.,  Expositio  IV, 
vs.  2  (Pat.  Lat.,  LXXIX,  583):  "Semetipsum  autem  David  cognoscebat,  cum 
multitudinem  miserationum  quaerebat " 

3.  For  mysticism  in  classical  and  earlier  church  literature,  see  Studies  in 
Mystical  Religion  by  Rufus  M.  Jones  (London,  1919),  c.  iv-vi.  Mysticism  by 
Evelyn  Underhill  (New  York:  E.  P.  Dutton  &  Co.,  191 2),  contains  an  Appendix 
giving  a  brief  account  of  leading  mystics,  and  it  also  contains  a  bibliography  of 
their  works. 

4.  For  this  classification,  see  Dean  Inge,  Christian  Mysticism  (London, 
1899),  pp.  9-10.  The  illuminative  process  is  usually  subdivided  into  a  varying 
number  of  steps.  Sometimes  the  purgative  stage  is  also  subdivided,  and  then 
again  it  is  treated  as  a  whole  as  an  obvious  preliminary  to  the  later  stages.  For 
instance,  Walter  Hilton  in  the  Scale  of  Perfection  merely  subdivides  the  illumina- 
tive stage  into  two  parts,  while  Richard  of  St.  Victor  divides  it  into  six  steps  in 


NOTES  AND  REFERENCES,  CHAPTER  V      227 

his  Benjamin  Major.  St.  Augustine  divided  the  whole  process  of  the  ascent  to 
God  into  seven  steps  (De  Quantitate  Animae,  c.  xxxiii.  [Pat.  Lat.,  XXXII, 
1075  ff.).  St.  Angela  de  Folgino  makes  eighteen  steps  in  all,  in  Visions,  Pt.  I, 
sentence  i. 

5.  See  Walter  Hilton,  op.  cit.,  Bk.  II,  Pt.  II,  c.  xi:  "A  soul  that  would  know 

spiritual  things  needs  first  to  have  the  knowledge  of  itself If  then  thou 

wilt  find  it,  withdraw  thy  thoughts  from  all  bodily  things  ....  also  from  all  thy 
five  senses  ....  and  think  on  the  nature  of  a  reasonable  soul  spiritually." 

6.  This  idea  of  a  state  of  negation  is,  as  Dean  Inge  points  out,  oriental 
rather  than  Greek  in  its  origin  (op.  cit.,  p.  in). 

7.  See  Inge,  op.  cit.,  pp.  7,  155-57.  Cf.  Maeterlinck,  Ruysbroeck  and  the 
Mystics  (translated  by  Stoddart;  London,  1894),  pp.  151!.  Ruysbroeck  in  The 
Kingdom  of  the  Lovers  of  God  (translated  by  Hyde;  New  York,  1919),  p.  83,  says: 
"We  must  fly  in  the  air  of  the  Rational  faculty,  that  is,  that  each  one  may 
examine,  look  into  and  search  himself  in  all  his  actions  in  accordance  with  the 

discernment  of  reason Finally,  like  the  eagle,  we  must  soar  beyond  the 

air  of  the  Rational  faculty  as  far  as  the  fire  of  the  divine  charity " 

8.  Supra,  pp.  66-67. 

9.  Translated  by  Bertram  Keightley  (New  York  and  London:  Putnam's, 
1 911),  Intro.,  pp.  4-5. 

10.  Published  in  1578.  Steiner's  quotation  reads  in  part:  "A  saying  .... 
which  ....  may  well  and  appropriately  be  applied  by  us  to  the  natural  and 
supernatural  knowing  of  the  whole  man;  ....  that  he  shall  ....  know  his  own 
nature,  inner  and  outer,  in  spirit  and  in  Nature;  whence  he  cometh  and  whereof 
he  is  made,  to  what  end  he  is  ordained.'' 

n.  Op.  cit.,  pp.  7-8. 

12.  That  he  means  the  door  into  the  chamber  of  perfect  communion  is  indi- 
cated by  Serm.  in  Cant,  xxiii,  which  is  entitled  De  tribus  modis  content plationib us 
circa  Deum  sub  fignra  trium  cellarum:  "lam  cubiculum  veniamus.  Quid  et  istud? 
Et  id  me  praesumo  scire  quid  sit?  Minime  mihi  tantae  rei  arrogo  experientiam 
nee  glorior  in  praerogativa,  quae  soli  servatur  beatae  sponsae,  cautus  iuxta  illud 
Graecorum,  scire  me  ipsum " 

13.  C.  xxxvi  (Pat.  Lat.,  CLXXXIV,  544-45).  St.  Bernard  also  discusses 
self-knowledge  in  his  De  Consideratione,  Bk.  II,  c.  iv  ff .  (Pat.  Lat.,  CLXXXII, 
746  ff.). 

14.  Benjamin  Minor,  Pt.  I,  c.  lxvii  ff .  (Pat.  Lat.,  CXCVI,  48). 

15.  Ibid.,  c.  lxxi. 

16.  Ibid.,  c.  lxxiv. 

17.  Ibid.,  c.  lxxv. 

18.  Ibid.,  c.  lxxviii. 

19.  Canto  XXXI. 


228  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

20.  See  Pepwell,  The  Cell  of  Self-Knowledge  (rev. ;  with  an  Introduction  by 
Edmund  C.  Gardner;  New  York  and  London,  1910),  Intro.,  p.  xiii. 

21.  Page  169  (New  York  and  London,  1913).  Richard  appears  in  the 
Paradiso,  canto  X. 

22.  See  St.  Catherine  of  Siena  by  E.  C.  Gardner  (New  York  and  London, 
1907),  p.  10. 

23.  Letters  of  St.  Catherine  of  Siena  by  Vida  Scudder  (New  York  and  Lon- 
don, 1906),  p.  47. 

24.  Dialogo  (Libro  delta  divina  dottrina,  volgarmente  detto  Dialogo  delta 
divina  provvidenza) ,  c.  lxv.  Cf.  c.  lxxii  and  c.  clxvi. 

25.  Dialogo,  c.  lxxiv. 

26.  Ibid.,  c.  cli.  William  Flete,  an  Augustinian  friar  of  Lecceto,  tells  of 
her  speaking  of  self-knowledge  as  the  foundation-stone  of  her  life.  See  Gardner, 
St.  Catherine  of  Siena,  p.  17. 

27.  Instructions,  c.  lvii. 

28.  Bk.  I,  Pt.  Ill,  c.  i. 

29.  Pepwell,  op.  cit.,  Treatise  VI,  p.  98. 

30.  See  St.  Bernard  of  Clairevaux,  De  Duodecim  Gradibus,  Pt.  II,  c.  x,  sec. 
28  (Pat.  Lat.,  CLXXXII,  957);  Peter  Abelard,  Ethica  sen  Liber  Dictus  Scito 
Te  Ipsum  {Pat.  Lat.,  CLXXVIII,  634  fL);  et  passim. 

31.  See  Thomas  a  Kempis,  Imitatio  Christi,  Bk.  I,  c.  ii:    "Qui  bene  se 

ipsum  cognoscit,  sibi  ipsi  vilescit Haec  est  altissima  et  utilissima  lectio, 

sui  ipsius  vera  cognitio  et  despicio."  Also  St.  Bernard  of  Clairevaux,  Serm.  in 
Cant,  xxxvi,  5  {Pat.  Lat.,  CLXXXIII,  969-70):  "Volo  proinde  animam  primo 

omnium   scire  se  ipsam  ....  talis   scientia   non  inflat,    sed   humiliat 

Nam  quomodo  non  vere  humiliabitur  in  hac  vera  cognitione  sui,  cum  se  perce- 
perit  oneratam  peccatis  ....";  Heinrich  Suso,  Discours  Spirituals  I,  "De  la 
Verite  de  notre  Neant  et  de  L'Humilite  du  Coeur,"  with  subtitle  "Combiens  est 
precieuse  connaissance  de  nous-memes"  (translated  into  French  by  M.  E.  Cartier 
[Paris,  1852]);  Johann  Tauler,  Institutions,  c.  vi. 

32.  See  St.  Bernard,  De  Interior e  Domo,  c.  xxxvi  (Pat.  Lat.,  CLXXXIV, 
544):  "Nulla  scientia  melior  est  ilia  qua  cognoscit  homo  se  ipsum  ....  agnos- 
cere  se  debet  homo  ad  quae  bona  sit  naturaliter  promptior  vel  at  quae  mala 
proclivior  ....  quibus  vitiis  valeat  facilius  corrumpi,  quibus  culpis  subjaceat 
vel  quibus  meritis  emineat." 

33.  Hugo  of  St.  Victor,  Eruditionis  Didascalicae,  Bk.  I,  c.  ii  (Pat.  Lat., 
CLXXVI,  741):  "Immortalis  quippe  animus  sapientia  illustratus  respicit  prin- 
cipium  suum,  et  quam  sit  indecorum  agnoscit  ut  extra  se  quidquam  quaerat:  cui 
quod  ipse  est  satis  esse  poterat.  Scriptum  legetur  in  tripode  Apollinis  yv&di 
aeavrdv,  id  est  'Nosce  teipsum,'  quia  nimirum  homo  si  non  originis  suae  immemor 
esset,  omne  quod  mutabilitati  obnoxium  est,  quam  sit  nihil  agnosceret";  Michel 
Psellus,  In  Cant.  Cant.  i.  7  (Pat.  Graec.,  CXXII,  551) :  "yv&di  aeavrbv  Hs  Tr&f>vKas 


NOTES  AND  REFERENCES,  CHAPTER  V      229 

to  wplv  ovd'  oXcos  ovaa,  /cat  x<2s  ei/caw  Teri/iijaaL  rvyxo-veiv  tov  AeaTrcrrov.  Cf.  De 
Omnifaria  Dodrina,  sec  31,  ibid.,  p.  70;  Gregory  the  Great  Super  Cant.  Cant. 
i.  7  (Pat.  Lat.,  LXXIX,  490);  Walafridus  Strabus  Cant.  Cant.  i.  7  (Pat.  Lat., 
CXIII,  1 132);  Walter  Hilton,  op.  cit.,  Bk.  I,  Pt.  Ill,  c.  i. 

34.  See,  for  example,  Walter  Hilton  (?),  The  Cloud  of  Unknowing,  c.  xiii. 

35.  Letters  of  St.  Catherine  of  Siena  by  Vida  Scudder,  p.  302. 

36.  St.  Catherine  of  Siena,  Dialogo,  c.  cxliii,  clx. 

37.  Peter  Blois,  De  XII  Utilitatibus  Tribulationis  (Pat.  Lat.,  CCVII,  997); 
Richard  Rolle,  The  Fire  of  Love,  c.  xxvii;  Heinrich  Suso,  Book  of  Eternal  Wisdom, 
Pt.  I,  c.  xiii. 

38.  See  Alan  d'Isle,  Summa  de  Arte  Praedicatoria,  c.  iii  (Pat.  Lat.,  CCX, 

XI8  [57]):  ".  •  •  •  in  libro  scientiae  legis  'Nosce  te  ipsum' O  homo,  vide 

te  in  triplici  speculo In  speculo  Scrip turae  legis  statum  tuum,  in  speculo 

Creaturae  videbis  te  miserum,  in  speculo  tuae  naturae  considerabis  te 
reum " 

39.  See  Angela  de  Folgino,  Instructions,  c.  lvii. 

40.  Dialogo,  c.  x.  Cf .  Walter  Hilton,  The  Scale  of  Perfection,  Bk.  II,  Pt. 
II,  c.  xi,  p.  228:  "The  soul  is  but  a  mirror  in  which  thou  shouldst  see  God 
spiritually." 

41.  Benjamin  Minor,  Pt.  I,  c.  lxxii  (Pat.  Lat.,  CXCVI,  51):  "Tergat  ergo 
speculum  suum,  mundet  spiritum  suum,  quisquis  sitit  videre  Deum  suum."  John 
Tauler,  in  his  sermon  for  the  third  Sunday  in  Advent,  tells  us  to  look  at  the  lives 
of  the  saints  and  behold  ourselves  in  that  mirror  (Tauler,  Life  and  Sermons 
[translated  by  Winkworth;  London,  1857],  p.  194). 

42.  Dialogo,  c.  x. 

43.  Predigten,  No.  56,  in  Deutsche  Mystiker  des  Vierzehnten  Jahrhunderts 
(ed.  Pfeiffer;  Leipzig,  1857),  II,  180-81.  The  foregoing  translation  is  found  in 
Rudolf  Steiner's  Mystics  of  the  Renaissance,  pp.  74-75.  For  a  further  discussion 
of  Eckhart's  treatment  of  the  theme  of  self-knowledge,  see  Lasson,  Meister 
Eckhart  (Berlin,  1868),  p.  81. 

44.  One  hundred  and  fifty-one  of  these  tales  were  collected  and  printed  in 
a.d.  1472.  Another  edition,  the  Vulgate,  followed  within  two  or  three  years, 
including  181  stories.  The  best  critical  edition  is  by  Oesterley. 

45.  Op.  cit.,  No.  30. 

46.  Juvenal  x.  39  ff. 

47.  Propertius  iv.  1.  32. 

48.  Suetonius  Caesar  50. 

49.  Tertullian  Apol.  33. 

50.  No  mention  is  made  of  this  tale  in  the  article  on  Classical  Elements  in  the 
Gesta  Romanorum  by  Ella  Bourne  in  "Vassar  Mediaeval  Studies"  (Yale  Uni- 
versity Press,  1923).  Tale  No.  139  is  also  somewhat  relevant  to  our  discussion, 
although  it  contains  no  allusion  to  the  maxim. 


23o  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

51.  See  supra,  p.  57.  Keller's  edition  (Stuttgart  und  Tubingen,  1842)  reads: 
"  .  .  .  dicebat:  gnoto  seauton,  id  est,  nosce  te  ipsum." 

52.  Bk.  VII  (ed.  Morley;  London,  1889),  p.  369. 

53.  C.  xcvii,  vss.  18373  ff.  (translated  by  Ellis;  London,  1900).  The  French 
version  (ed.  Meon  [Paris,  1814],  III,  159)  reads: 

"Car  Fraus-Voloirs  est  si  poissans, 
S'il  est  de  soi  bien  cognoissans, 
Qu'il  se  puet  tous  jors  garentir, 
S'il  puet  dedens  son  cuer  sentir 
Que  Pechies  vueille  estre  ses  mestres, 
Comment  qu'il  aut  des  cors  celestres." 

— Vss.  17774  ff. 

54.  Ibid.,  c.  xcviii,  vss.  18595  ff. 

55.  Op.  cit.,  vss.  139  ff. 

56.  Ibid.,  vss.  211  ff. 

57.  C.T.,  Group  I,  sec.  29  (The  Works  of  Chaucer  [ed.  Skeat;  Oxford,  1894]). 

58.  C.T.,  Group  D,  vss.  1 201-2, 

59.  Translated  by  John  Payne  (London,  1881). 

60.  Vss.  31-32.  Cf.  vss.  107  ff.  For  the  mirror  figure,  see  also  John  Lydgate's 
Poem  against  Self -Love  with  its  refrain:  "Look  in  thy  merour  and  deeme  noon 
othir  wihte." 

61.  No.  3,  vss.  25-27. 

62.  No.  66,  entitled  Aller  Lander  Kunde,  vss.  120  ff. 

6s.  The  Ship  of  Fools  (translated  by  Alexander  Barclay;  ed.  Jamieson 
[Edinburgh  and  London,  1874],  II,  27). 

CHAPTER  VI 

1.  Bk.  I,  c.  vi.  (ed.  Sayle  [London,  1904],  I,  159). 

2.  El  Discreto,  "El  Buen  Entendedor"  (in  Tratados  [ed.  Reyes;  Madrid, 
1918]),  p.  102. 

3.  Sermons  (Philadelphia,  1845),  I>  25&-  No.  16,  "Against  Long  Extempo- 
rary Prayers." 

4.  The  Mischiefs  of  Self -Ignorance  and  the  Benefits  of  Self- Acquaintance 
(printed  by  R.  White  for  F.  Tyton,  London,  1662),  p.  55. 

5.  For  instance  see  Rabelais,  Pantagruel,  Bk.  IV,  c.  xlix:  "En  Delphes  davant 
la  face  du  temple  d'Apollo,  fut  trouvee  ceste  sentence  divinement  escrite :  Tv&dc 
ZeavTov." 

6.  Religio  Medici,  Pt.  I,  sec.  13. 

7.  The  Complete  Poems  of  Sir  John  Davies  (ed.  Grosart;  London,  1876),  I, 
19.  For  a  discussion  of  this  poem  and  its  sources,  see  Sneath,  Philosophy  in 
Poetry  (New  York,  1903);  and  Mabel  Dodge  Holmes,  The  Poet  as  Philosopher 
(University  of  Pennsylvania  dissertation,  Philadelphia,  192 1).  Grosart's  Intro- 
duction has  been  superseded  by  more  recent  works. 


NOTES  AND  REFERENCES,  CHAPTER  VI     231 

8.  De  la  Connaissance  de  Soi-Meme,  Pt.  I,  c.  vii  (in  Oeuvres  Philosophiques  et 
Morales  [ed.  Jourdain;  Paris,  1845]). 

9.  Adagio,  under  Modestia,  Modusque.  Erasmus  cites  yv&di  aeavrov  twice 
among  other  maxims  in  his  letter  to  William  Blount,  Lord  Mountjoy,  No.  126, 
(ed.  Allen,  I  291).  Robert  Burton  also  includes  it  in  a  list  of  maxims  in  Anatomy 
of  Melancholy,  Pt.  II,  sec.  3,  memb.  7.  It  is  said  that  when  Erasmus'  guardians 
wished  him  to  enter  a  monastery  at  the  age  of  seventeen,  he  replied:  "I  neither 
know  what  the  world  is,  what  a  monastery  is,  nor  what  I  am  myself.  I  think  it, 
therefore,  advisable  to  continue  a  few  years  more  in  the  schools,  that  I  may  be- 
come better  acquainted  with  myself"  (Charles  Bucke,  The  Book  of  Human  Char- 
acter [London,  1837],  I,  1). 

10.  De  Augmentis,  Bk.  VIII,  c.  ii,  sec.  34  (in  ed.  Montagu  [London,  1827], 
IX,  47). 

11.  P.  3. 

12.  Cf.  Baltasar  Gracian,  Ordculo  Manual,  maxim  LXXXIX  (Tratados  [ed. 
Reyes],  p.  215) :  "Comprehension  de  si.  En  el  ingenio,  en  dictamenes,  en  afectos 
....  conoce  las  fuerzas  de  su  cordura  y  sutileza  para  el  emprender;  tantee 
irascible  para  el  empenarse.  .  .  .  ," 

13.  Bk.  Ill,  c.  iii. 

14.  Essais  de  Montaigne  (Paris:  Libraire  Hachette  &  Co.,  1872),  Bk.  II,  c. 
vi,  p.  234. 

15.  Ed.  Grosart,  I,  116. 

16.  The  second  stanza  of  the  poem  reads: 

"Thouhe  the  pecok  have  wengys  brihte  and  sheene, 
Grauntyd  be  nature  to  his  gret  avayl, 
With  gold  and  azour  and  emeroudis  grene, 
And  Argus  eyen  portrayed  in  his  tayl; 
Berthe  up  his  fethrys  displayed  like  a  sayl, 
Toward  his  feet  whan  he  cast  down  his  sighte, 
T'abate  his  pryde  ther  is  no  bet  counsaylle : — 
Look  in  thy  merour  and  deeme  noon  othir  wihte." 
— Early  English  Poetry  (ed.  Percy  Society;  London,  1840),  II,  156 

17.  Emblemata  Moralia  (Rotterdam,  1625),  No.  1. 

18.  Les  Oeuvres  de  Voiture  (ed.  Roux;  Paris,  1856),  Lettre  I,  p.  82. 

19.  Vss.  145  ff. 

20.  Cf.  Paradise  Lost,  VII,  510  ff.,  where  Milton  follows  Ovid's  account  of 
the  creation  of  man  (Met.  i.  76  ff.)  and  describes  him  further  as 

"Self -knowing,  and  from  thence 
Magnanimous  to  correspond  with  Heaven, 
But  grateful  to  acknowledge  whence  his  good 
Descends " 

21.  Sperone  Speroni,  Opere  (Venezia,  1740),  II,  516-19.  Cf.  Speroni's  letter 


23  2  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

to  Sig.  Giacomo  Critonio  Scozese  a  Mantova  (No.  414,  Op.,  V,  319):  "Porra 
poi  fine  al  ragionamento  l'adulatore  con  quella  nobil  parola,  nosce  teipsum: 
alia  quale  perciocche  uom  crede  comunemente  che  sia  precetto  dato  da  Deo  all' 
umanita,  non  par  ragione,  che  voi  ne  altri  di  nostra  specie  abbia  ragione  di 
contradira." 

22.  Discorso  Sopra  le  Sentenze  Ne  quid  nimis  e  Nosce  te  ipsum,  in  Op.,  II, 

23.  This  is  probably  what  Antonio  de  Guevara  has  in  mind  in  his  Marcus 
Aurelius,  or  Dial  of  Princes,  Bk.  I,  c.  xxxv,  when  he  adds  to  Thales'  reputed 
statement  that  the  most  difficult  thing  is  to  know  one's  self,  "porque  no  auria 
contienda  en  el  mundo  si  el  hombre  se  conociesse  a  si  mismo." 

24.  Bk.  Ill,  c.  iii. 

25.  B.  ed.  Wright  (Cambridge  University  Press,  1904),  p.  in.  He  says 
further,  "This  thing  should  be  both  simile  to  the  commonweal  the  and  most 
profitable  for  everyone  ....  and  specially  to  turn  our  attention  again  to  shoot- 
ing, where  wise  archers  have  always  theyr  instrumentes  fit  for  theyr  strength." 

26.  Essais,  Bk.  I,  c.  iii. 

27.  De  Augmentis,  Bk.  VIII,  sec.  34  (ed.  Montagu,  p.  48).  Cf.  Michel  de 
L'Hospital,  Ep.  ad  Vidum  Fabrum  (Carmina  [Amsterdam,  1732],  Bk.  IV,  p. 
208  ff.),  poem  with  title  "De  Amore  &  Ignoratione  Sui,"  closing  verses: 

"Quid  possis  aut  non  possis,  cui  fecerit  aptum 
Te  natura  minusve  rei,  cui  longior  usus : 
Sic  pelles  externa  regesque  domestica  victor, 
Nee  fallent  alii,  nee  tu  te  denique  falles." 

28.  Bk.  II  (ed.  Paris,  1535),  p.  43. 

29.  Ibid.,  p.  29. 

30.  "Hominem  te  esse  cogita"  forms  the  title  of  an  emblem  by  Johannes  de 
Boria  {Emblemata  moralia  [Berolini,  1697],  No.  100),  illustrated  with  a  picture 
of  a  skull.  The  verse  reads: 

"Quamquam  victor  ovas,  mortalem  te  esse  memento: 
Destrue,  vince  orbem;  denique  talis  eris." 
The  prose  commentary  refers  to  the  story  told  of  Philip  of  Macedon,  who,  after 
the  battle  of  Chaeronea,  insisted  that  a  slave  shout  to  him  early  each  morning 
that  he  was  human  (Aelian,  Var.  Hist.,  VIII,  15). 

31.  Pt.  I,  c.  vii. 

32.  Ed.  Grosart,  I,  22. 

33.  Pensees,  sec.  II,  No.  139. 

34.  Pt.  I,  c.  i-ii. 

35.  Pt.  I,  c.  vii.  Cf.  Michel  de  L'Hospital,  Ep.  ad  Vidum  Fabrum,  Bk.  IV, 
p.  207,  and  the  poem  of  Mazzeo  di  Ricco  of  Messina,  translated  by  Dante  Gabriel 
Rosetti,  entitled  Self-Seeing. 

36.  Carmina  Lyrica  (ed.  Muller),  Bk.  I,  No.  9. 


NOTES  AND  REFERENCES,  CHAPTER  VI     233 

37.  Christian  Wernicke's  Epigramme  (ed.  Pechel;  Berlin,  1909),  Bk.  VIII, 
No.  64,  p.  441. 

38.  Sinngedichte,  No.  234  (in  Deutsche  Dichter  des  17.  Jahrh.  [Leipzig, 
1870],  III,  73) .  Cf .  poem  by  Andreas  Tscherning  entitled  "Lerne  dich  selbst  ken- 
nen."  He  says  that  we  see  others'  faults  with  the  eye  of  a  lynx  but  are  like  moles 
when  it  comes  to  our  own. 

39.  Sinngedichte,  No.  474,  p.  137.  See  supra,  p.  60.  Cf.  also  Michel  de 
L'Hospital,  Ep.  ad  Vidum  Fabrum,  Bk.  IV,  p.  213. 

40.  Bk.  Ill,  c.  xxv. 

41.  See  introduction  to  this  chapter  in  Oeuvres  de  Rabelais  (ed.  Variorum, 
Paris,  1823),  IV,  486-87. 

42.  There  is  a  suggestion  of  the  Neo-Platonist  use  of  self-knowledge  as 
synonymous  with  self-consciousness  in  Montaigne's  Essais,  Bk.  II,  c.  xii,  p.  353 : 
"Or  il  est  vraysemblable  que  si  l'ame  scavoit  quelque  chose,  elle  se  scauroit 
premierement  elle  meme;  et  si  elle  scavoit  quelque  chose  hors  d'elle,  ce  seroit 
son  corps  et  son  estuy,  avant  toute  aultre  chose." 

43.  The  Governour,  Bk.  Ill,  c.  iii.  Cf.  Thomas  Traherne,  Centuries  of  Medi- 
tation (ed.  Dobell;  London,  1908),  Cent.  I,  No.  19,  p.  13 :  "You  never  know  your- 
self till  you  know  more  than  your  body.  The  image  of  God  was  not  seated  in  the 
features  of  your  face,  but  in  the  lineaments  of  your  soul." 

44.  Epigrammatum,  "To  Henry,  Prince  of  Wales,"  Bk.  I,  No.  79  (ed.  Lon- 
don, 1633,  p.  141).  John  Owen  has  another  epigram  entitled  "Nosce  te  ipsum": 

"Qualia  sit,  talem  se  nemo  intelligit:  atqui 
Se  meminit  puerum  vir,  iuvenemque  senex." 

—"To  Maria  Neville,"  Bk.  Ill,  No.  154,  p.  72 

45.  Ed.  Grosart,  I,  24. 

46.  P.  4. 

47.  A  discussion  of  the  union  of  soul  and  body,  containing  criticisms  of 
Leibniz'  theory,  seems  to  have  formed  a  considerable  portion  of  a  treatise  entitled 
Connaissance  de  Soy-meme,  discussed  by  Leibniz,  Philosophische  Abhandlungen, 
1684-1703,  c.  viii  (ed.  Gerhardt  [Berlin,  1887],  IV,  572,  590 ff.).  Leibniz  held 
that  there  is  no  real  interaction  between  the  monads  of  the  body  and  the 
monads  of  the  soul,  but  only  an  apparent  one. 

48.  Bk.  IV,  c.  i  (ed.  Montagu,  VIII,  204). 

49.  C.  i  and  lxii.  See  also,  c.  lv-lvi  {Bib.  Alitor es  Espanoles,  LXV,  332  ff.). 

50.  Religio  Medici,  Pt.  I,  sec.  13. 

51.  "Second  Anniversary,"  vss.  261  ff.  (ed.  Chambers  [New  York  and 
London,  1926],  II,  136).    Contrast  with  this,  Manzoli,  Zodiacus  Vitae,  Bk.  VII, 

PP-  535  «.: 

"Quid  melius  quam  se  cognoscere?  Corpora  quid  sint 
Norunt  vel  pueri :  pulvis  de  pulvere :  verum 
Difficile  est  naturam  animi  cognoscere  ad  unguem." 


234  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

52.  This  title  occurs  in  an  edition  by  Philaretus  (Amsterdam,  1709).  The 
maxim  is  omitted  from  the  title  of  the  edition  by  Land  (Hagae,  1893). 

53.  Ed.  Land,  III,  7. 

54.  Tract  I,  c.  ii,  sec.  2. 

55.  Note  emblem  by  Engelgrave  entitled  "Tu  quis  es"?  (Lux  Evangelicum 
[Antwerp,  1648],  No.  4),  with  quotation  from  Hor.  Sat.  i.  8.  1,  olim  truncus 
eram,  illustrated  by  a  picture  of  a  man  chiseling  a  statue.  Four  essays  on  self- 
knowledge  follow,  with  yv&di  aeavrov  quoted  in  the  introduction  to  the  set. 

56.  Bk.  II,  c.  i,  sec.  1  (translated  by  John  Allen  [Pres.  Board  of  Pub.  Phila- 
delphia, 18 — ],  I,  221  f.).  For  Luther's  teaching  on  the  subject  of  self-knowledge, 
see  Ein  Sermon  von  der  Betrachtung  des  heiligen  Leid-Christi,  am  Charfreytage, 
Pt.  II,  sec.  8  (Sdmmt.  Schriften  [ed.  Walch;  Halle,  1740-53],  XI,  790);  Ein 
anderer  Sermon  am  ErstenSonntage  nachOstem,  sees.  13, 17-18  (ibid., -pp.  1009-13) ; 
Drittes  Hauptstiick,  vom  Vater  Unser  1,  "Erste  Bitte,"  sec.  60  (X,  1941). 

57.  Cf.  Pascal,  Pensees,  sec.  VII,  No.  430:  "Ne  sachent  de  nous-memes  qui 
nous  sommes,  nous  ne  pouvons  l'apprendre  que  de  Dieu."  Cf.  also  Johannes  de 
Boria,  Emblemata  moralia,  No.  60),  entitled  "Ne  te  quaesiveris  extra,"  and 
illustrated  by  a  picture  of  a  snail.  The  verses  read : 

"Proximus  ipse  tibi,  ne  te  quaesiveris  extra, 
Te  nosce,  ut  possis  discere  nosse  Deum." 

58.  Speroni  argues  that  our  certainty  of  immortality  comes  by  revelation 
of  God,  and  that  we  cannot  know  it  in  the  ordinary  sense  of  the  word  ("Discorso 
sopra  le  Sentenze,  etc.,"  Op.,  II,  519  f.)  Locke's  "Second  Reply  to  the  Bishop  of 
Worcester"  is  interesting  in  this  connection.  It  seems  that  the  bishop  has  taken 
exception  to  Locke's  "way  of  Certainty"  by  ideas,  because  he  said  that  by  it 
he  could  not  demonstrate  that  the  soul  is  immortal,  and  that  would  mean  failure 
in  some  of  the  first  foundations  of  real  self-knowledge.  Locke  asks  in  reply  if 
the  bishop's  "way  by  reason"  is  not  a  strange  way  of  certainty,  if  it  also  "fails 
us  in  some  of  the  first  foundations  of  the  real  knowledge  of  ourselves"  (The 
Works  of  John  Locke  [London,  1823],  IV,  459). 

59.  Note  especially  his  assertion  that  ignorance  of  self  inevitably  entails 
beholding  one's  miserable  self  for  all  eternity  (Pt.  I,  c.  viii).  With  this,  compare 
Sir  Thomas  Browne,  Christian  Morals,  Pt.  I,  sec.  22:  "Although  our  transgres- 
sions shall  be  tryed  at  the  last  bar,  the  process  need  not  be  long;  for  the  Judge 
of  all  knoweth  all,  and  every  man  will  nakedly  know  himself." 

60.  There  is  a  good  summary  of  the  whole  matter  on  page  5.  For  the  use  of 
the  phrase  "knowing  one's  self"  for  conversion,  see  poem  by  Fray  Luis  de  Leon 
entitled  "Del  Conocimiento  de  si  Mismo"  (Bib.  Ant.  Esp.  Escritores  del  Siglo 
XVI,  II,  1 5-1 6),  in  which  he  tells  of  falling  away  from  God  after  his  early  baptism, 
and  of  how  he  came  to  see  his  sin  and  turn  again  to  God,  who  heard  his  prayer  of 
penitence.  See  also  Bunyan,  Pilgrim's  Progress,  Pt.  I  (ed.  Offor  [London,  1862], 


NOTES  AND  REFERENCES,  CHAPTER  VI  235 

III,  160)  where  Hopeful  and  Christian  are  talking  of  fear,  and  of  how  convictions 
which  tend  to  put  them  in  fear  are  good,  although  the  ignorant  stifle  those  fears; 
and  Hopeful  says:  "I  know  something  of  this  myself;  for  before  I  knew  myself, 
it  was  so  with  me." 

61.  See  Martin  Hume,  Spanish  Influence  on  English  Literature  (London, 
1905),  p.  217. 

62.  For  the  importance  which  he  attaches  to  self-knowledge,  see  Preface  to 
Die  drei  Principien  gottlichen  Wesens. 

63.  Some  of  his  short  poems  show  his  mystical  doctrines  succinctly — for 
example: 

GOTT  SCHAUET  MAN  AN  SlCH 

"Wie  ist  mein  Gott  gestalt't  ?  Geh'  schau'  dich  selber  an. 
Wer  sich  in  Gott  beschauet,  schaut  Gott  wahrhaftig  an." 
— Samtliche  Werke  (ed,  Ellinger  [Berlin,  1924]),  Bk.  II,  No.  157 

Gott  ist  in  Mir  und  Ich  in  Ihm 
"Gott  ist  in  mir  das  Feu'r,  und  ich  in  ihm  der  Schein: 
Sind  wir  einander  nicht  ganz  inniglich  gemein?" 

—Ibid.,  Bk.  I,  No.  11 
Der  Seele,  ist  Gottes  Bild 
"Das  Bildniss  Gottes  ist  der  Seelen  eingepragt; 
Wohl  dem  der  solche  Miinz'  in  reiner  Leinwand  tragt," 

—Ibid.,  Bk.  Ill,  No.  76 

64.  See  St.  Teresa,  Castillo  Interior  0  Las  Moradas,  Bk.  I,  c.  ii;  Fray  Luis  de 
Granada,  Memorial  de  la  Vida  Cristiana,  Bk.  VI,  c.  vii,  which  has  the  title 
"Del  Conocimiento  de  si  Mismo"  {Aut.  Esp.,  VIII,  371  fL);  also  ibid.,  Bk.  VII, 
c.  vi,  p.  391  fL;  and  Adiciones  at  Memorial  de  la  Vida  Cristiana  (Aut.  Esp.,  I, 
450  ff.).  E.  Allison  Peers,  in  Spanish  Mysticism  (New  York:  E.  P.  Dutton, 
1925),  p.  42,  says:  "The  Spanish  Mystic's  primary  care  is  to  know  himself,  and 
this  to  him  is  an  inseparable  part  of  his  great  ideal — to  know  and  to  be  one  with 
God." 

65.  Epistolario  Espiritual,  Bk.  IV,  Ep.  I  (Bib.  Aut.  Esp.,  XIII,  429). 

66.  The  poem  occurs  in  Part  II  of  his  Leon  Prodigioso,  an  allegorical  ro- 
mance. Part  II  attempts  to  depict  human  life  from  the  Creation  to  the  Judgment 
(ed.  Seville  [1732],  II,  167). 

67.  Jacob  Boehme  says  in  the  Preface  to  Die  drei  Principien  gottlichen 
Wesens  that  if  we  do  not  learn  to  know  ourselves,  we  are  as  heifers  looking  at  a 
new  door  to  their  stalls. 

68.  Torquato  Tasso,  /  Dialoghi  (Firenze,  1859),  III,  484. 

69.  Ed.  Grosart,  I,  26. 

70.  C.  lxii. 

71.  Florentius  Schoonoven,  Emblemata  (Goudae,  1648),  No.  I,  p.  1. 


236  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

72.  See  Montaigne,  Essais,  Bk.  Ill,  c.  xiii:  "L'  advertissement  a  chacun 
'De  se  cognoistre'  doibt  estre  d'un  important  effet,  puisque  ce  Dieu  de  science 
et  de  lumiere  le  feit  planter  au  front  de  son  temple  comme  comprenant  tout  ce 
qu'il  avoit  a  nous  conseiller."  Also  see  Friedrich  von  Logau's  poem  entitled 
"Die  hochste  Weissheit": 

"Gott  und  sich  im  Grunde  kennen 
1st  die  hochste  Witz  zu  nennen; 
Vielen  is  viel  Witz  gegeben, 
Diese  selten  noch  daneben." 
— Bk.  II,  sec.  1,  No.  79  (ed.  Eitner  [Tubingen,  1872]) 
And  Sir  Thomas  Browne,  Religio  Medici,  Pt.  I,  sec.  13:  "His  (God's)  greatest 
knowledge  is  in  comprehending  that  he  made  not,  that  is,  himself.  And  this  is 
also  the  greatest  knowledge  in  man." 

73.  See  Juan  Luis  Vives,  Ad  Sapientiam,  DC:  "Hie  est  cursus  absolutae 
sapientiae  cuius  primus  gradus  est  nosse  se." 

74.  See  Vida,  De  Dignitate  Reipublicae,  Bk.  II  (London,  1732),  Vol.  II,  Pt. 
IV,  p.  198;  Montaigne,  Essais,  Bk.  Ill,  c.  ix:  "Nous  allons  en  avant  a  vau 
l'eau  mais  de  rebrousser  vers  nous  nostre  course  e'est  un  movement  pemble: 
la  mer  se  brouille  et  s'empesche  ainsi,  quand  elle  est  repulsee  a  soy  .... 
e'estoit  un  commandment  paradoxe,  que  nous  faisoit  anciennement  ce  Dieu  a 
Delphos  ....";  cf.  ibid.,  Bk.  II,  c.  i,  10. 

75.  The  essays  of  Montaigne  might  fittingly  be  entitled  "Studies  in  Self- 
Knowledge."  A.  R.  Waller  in  his  Introduction  to  the  essays  ("Everyman's 
Library"  ed.,  p.  ix)  says  that  we  have  "the  spectacle  of  one,  who,  in  the  search 
after  self-knowledge,  freely  placed  himself  upon  the  operating  table,  and  caring 
as  little  for  the  exposure  of  his  own  weakness  as  for  the  revelation  of  those  things 
upon  which  he  prided  himself,  submitted  himself  to  a  vivisection  which  enables 
us  to  know  him  more  intimately  than  we  know  any  other  writer." 

76.  Bk.  Ill,  c.  xiii,  pp.  302-3. 

77.  Bk.  II,  c.  xii,  p.  311. 

78.  See  Ronsard,  "Discours,  Institution  pour  L'Adolescence  du  Roi": 

"Le  vray  commencement  pour  en  vertus  accroistre 
C'est  (disoit  Apollon)  soy-mesme  se  cognoistre." 

— Oeuvres  (ed.  Marty-Laveaux  [Paris,  1891]),  V,  349 
Also  Speroni,   Trattatelli  di  Vario  Argomento,  "Delia  Vertu"   (Op.,  V,  394): 
"Questo  modo  d'imparar  vertu  non  e  cosa  nova,  ma  e  bene  antica;  ed  e  in  comun 
proverbio  esser  cosa  dataci  da  Dio  ....  nosce  te  ipsum." 

79.  Bk.  Ill,  c.  hi. 

80.  Edward  Hyde  in  his  Survey  of  Hobbes'  Leviathan  (Oxford,  1676),  pp. 
11-15,  says  that  Hobbes  lays  a  wrong  foundation  for  his  book  by  assuming  that 
we  can  know  others  by  knowing  ourselves.  "Nosce  te  ipsum,"  he  says,  "in  the 


NOTES  AND  REFERENCES,  CHAPTER  VI  237 

sense  of  Solon  who  prescribed  it,  was  a  sober  truth,  but  was  never  intended  as 
an  expedient  to  discover  the  similitude  of  the  thoughts  of  other  men  by  what  he 
found  in  himself,  but  as  the  best  means  to  suppress  and  destroy  that  pride  and 
self-conceit  which  might  tempt  him  to  undervalue  other  men,  and  to  plant  that 
modesty  and  humility  in  himself,  as  would  preserve  him  from  such  presumption" 

(P-  IS)- 

81.  An  interesting  treatment  of  the  knowledge  of  man  as  a  corollary  to 
knowledge  of  self  occurs  in  one  of  x\ndrea  Alciati's  emblems,  entitled  "Sub- 
movendam  Ignorantiam"  (No.  188).  It  is  illustrated  with  a  picture  of  a  sphinx 
which  has  a  woman's  face,  wings,  and  lion's  feet,  and  the  concluding  verses  of 
the  poem  are  as  follows: 

"At  quibus  est  no  turn  quid  Delphica  littera  possit, 

Praecipitis  monstri  guttera  dira  secant. 

Namq:  vir  ipse  bipesq:  tripesq:  &  quadrupes  idem  est 

Primaq:  Prudentis  laura,  nosse  virum." 
Some  such  picture  as  this  must  have  been  in  the  mind  of  Albertinus  when  he  said 
in  his  Lucifer's  Konigreich  und  Seelen  gejaidt  oder  Narrenhatz  (Deutsch.  Nat.  Lit. 
[Berlin  and  Stuttgart,  1884],  XXVI,  26-29),  that  men  of  old  represented 
ignorance  of  self  by  a  sphinx,  which  they  pictured  as  a  beautiful  woman  because 
ignorance  of  self  dazzles  a  man  and  makes  him  fall  precipitously  just  as  a  beauti- 
ful woman  does.  It  has  feathers  like  the  wings  of  Icarus,  which  let  him  fall  into 
the  sea,  and  it  has  the  feet  of  a  lion  to  indicate  that  ignorance  of  self  is  accom- 
panied by  the  pride  which  "goes  before  a  fall."  Albertinus  wrote  an  essay  on 
Nosce  te  ipsum,  which  has  not  been  available  for  this  study. 

82.  Bk.  II,  c.  iv,  sec.  5.    Cf.  De  Officio  Hominis  et  Civis,  Bk.  I,  c.  v,  sec.  4. 

83.  Pt.  II,  c.  x. 

84.  Cf.  William  Browne,  Britannia's  Pastorals,  Bk.  II,  Song  3,  vss.  439-40. 

"You  search'd  yourselves  if  all  within  were  faire, 
And  did  not  learn  of  others  what  you  were." 

85.  Ragguali  Di  Parnaso,  Cent.  I,  Rag.  I. 

86.  Supra,  p.  68. 

87.  Supra,  p.  216,  n.  16. 

88.  In  the  16 14  edition. 

89.  No.  10. 

90.  Quaestiones  Symbolicae  (Bononiae,  1574),  Bk.  II,  No.  59. 

91.  Emblemata  Ethica-Politica  (x\ntwerp,  166 1),  No.  109. 

92.  Cf.  Arnold  Houbraken,  Zinnebeelden  (Amsterdam,  1767),  No.  6,  p.  21. 
This  is  entitled  "Look  into  Yourself  from  Within"  and  is  accompanied  by  a  poem 
by  Mme.  Gezinne  Birt,  in  which  the  reader  is  admonished  to  turn  away  from 
this  mirror  to  the  mirror  of  the  heavenly  word,  if  he  wishes  to  see  his  real  self 
revealed. 


238  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

93.  Lux  Evangelica  (Antwerp,  1648),  No.  51,  p.  455. 

94.  Viridarium  Hieroglyphico-morale  (Frankfurt,  1619),  No.  30. 

95.  Iconologia  (Venezia,  1669),  Bk.  II,  pp.  508-9. 

96.  N.H.  ix.  41  (25);  xxxii.  1. 

97.  Cf.  also  mirror  on  wall  in  Albert  Flamen's  Devises  et  Emblems  D1  Amour 
(Paris,  1672),  No.  13,  p.  50;  and  Basilisk  looking  in  a  mirror  in  Claas  Bruin's 
Zinnebeelden  (Amsterdam,  1722),  p.  20.  The  world  is  pictured  as  a  distorting 
mirror  which  makes  a  man  look  larger  than  his  natural  size  in  one  of  Francis 
Quarles'  emblems  {Emblems,  Bk.  II,  No.  6).  In  a  widely  changed  "modernized" 
version  by  an  unknown  author  (London,  1766)  the  emblem  is  entitled  "The 
Recompence  of  Vanity,"  and  the  poem  seems  to  show  the  influence  of  Lydgate's 
Steele  Glas,  with  its  distinction  between  true  and  false  mirrors.  It  begins  with 
the  words: 

"The  world's  a  mirror  which  deceives 
And  falsely  objects  represents"; 
and  the  "Moral"  closes  with  the  verse, 

"The  useful'st  knowledge  is  thyself  to  know." 

98.  Charron  was  revising  the  book  (first  published  in  1601)  at  the  time  of 
his  death  (1603).  This  second  edition  was  brought  out  the  following  year.  The 
frontispiece  is  described  by  Stanhope  in  connection  with  his  English  translation 
(London,  1729). 

99.  Descartes,  Oeuvres  (Paris:  Adam  and  Tannery,  1908),  X,  515. 

100.  Pt.  I,  c.  iv. 

101.  Essais,  Bk.  II,  c.  x,  p.  252. 

102.  P.  105    (London,  1671).  He  also  wrote  a  number  of  tracts  on  usury. 

103.  Sc.  hi,  near  middle. 

104.  Op.,  II,  346  f. 

105.  De  Augmentis,  Bk.  VIII,  c.  ii,  sec.  34  (ed.  Montagu,  IX,  47). 

106.  Cf.  Sir  Philip  Sidney,  Apologie  for  Poetrie  (ed.  Schuckburgh  [Cam- 
bridge University  Press,  1891]),  p.  13 :  "Architektonike  which  stands  (as  I  thinke) 
in  the  knowledge  of  a  man's  selfe,  in  the  ethicke  and  politik  consideration,  with 
the  end  of  well  dooing  and  not  of  knowing  onely." 

107.  Seven  Sermons  before  Edward  VI  (London,  1869),  Sermon  V,  p.  138. 
Latimer  was  a  Catholic  clergyman  converted  to  Protestantism,  and  a  very 
popular  preacher,  influential  in  the  Reformation.  He  died  at  the  stake  in  1555. 
Most  of  his  extant  sermons  were  published  after  his  death. 

108.  For  instance,  Aeschylus,  Agamemnon,  vss.  1706". 

109.  Faerno  was  a  minor  poet  of  the  sixteenth  century.  He  wrote  one  hun- 
dred fables,  most  of  them  borrowed  from  Aesop  and  other  ancient  poets.  This 
story  is  told  by  Aesop  in  Plutarch's  Banquet  of  the  Seven  Wise  Men,  c.  4. 

no.  Cf.  Baxter,  Mischiefs  of  Self -Ignorance,  p.  77:  "Men  are  befooled  by 


NOTES  AND  REFERENCES,  CHAPTER  VI     239 

prosperity  and  unacquainted  with  themselves  till  danger  or  calamity  call  them 
to  the  bar."  See,  also,  ibid.,  p.  447. 

in.  The  Complete  Poems  of  Sir  John  Davies  (ed.  Grosart),  Memorial- 
Introduction,  pp.  xx  ff.;  Sneath,  Philosophy  in  Poetry,  pp.  23  ff.;  Holmes,  The 
Poet  as  Philosopher,  pp.  8  ff.  While  Davies'  personal  experience  undoubtedly 
influenced  him  in  the  writing  of  the  poem,  his  biographers  may  sometimes  over- 
draw the  picture  of  his  remorse  and  soul-struggle.  That  the  poem  won  immediate 
favor  is  indicated  by  the  story  that  when  Davies  was  presented  to  King  James, 
the  king  asked  if  he  were  Nosce  Teipsum,  and  on  the  assurance  that  he  was,  the 
king  embraced  him  and  made  him  first  sollicitor  and  later  attorney-general  in 
Ireland  (Sneath,  op.  cit.,  p.  29). 

112.  Op.  cit.  (ed.  Grosart),  p.  22. 

113.  Bib.  Dent.  Dichter  des  17.  Jahrh.  (Leipzig,  1838),  XIV,  220. 

114.  See  Fray  Luis  de  Granada,  Memorial  de  la  Vida  Cristiana,  Bk.  VI,  c. 
vii  (Obras, Vol.  II,  Bib.  Ant.  Esp.,  p.  450.);  Charron,  DelaSagesse,  Intro.;  Nicole, 
De  la  Connaissance  de  Soi-Meme,  Pt.  II,  c.  v;  Baxter,  Mischiefs  of  S el f -Ignorance, 
p.  2. 

115.  See  supra,  p.  237,  n.  92;  Bunyan,  Pilgrim's  Progress,  Pt.  I  (ed.  Offor, 
III,  153);  South,  Posthumous  Sermons,  No.  14,  on  "The  Hope  of  the  Hypocrite 
Delusive." 

116.  See  Vida,  De  Dignitate  Reipublicae,  Bk.  II  (ed.  1732,  Vol.  II,  Pt.  IV, 
p.  153).  He  speaks  of  how  men  are  benefitted  by  coming  together  and  hearing 
the  truths  of  religion,  and  says:  "Denique  admoniti  sunt  quod  factu  est  difficil- 
limum,  ut  se  ipse  quisque  nosceret:  cuius  praecepti  tanta  est  excellentia  ut 
antiqui Delphici  dei  oraculo  ascripserint." 

117.  See  Francisco  Ortiz,  Epistolas  Familiares  iii  {Bib.  Aut.  Esp.,  Vol.  XIII, 
Pt.  I,  pp.  263  ff.).  This  epistle  treats,  as  the  chapter  title  tells  us,  of  "Cuanto 
aprovecha  el  conocimiento  de  si  mismo  para  alcanzar  el  de  Dios."  See,  also, 
Calvin,  Institution  de  la  Religion  Chrestiene,  Bk.  I,  c.  i;  Davies,  Nosce  Teipsum, 
Pt.  II,  quoted  supra,  p.  102;  Pascal,  Pensees,  sec.  vii,  No.  548:  "Nous  ne  nous  con- 
naissons  nous-memes  que  par  Jesus  Christ";  and  Nicole,  De  la  Connaissance  de 
SoiMeme,  Pt.  II,  c.  iii:  "II  n'y  a  que  Dieu  qui  nous  puisse  donner  une  con- 
naissance de  nous-memes " 

118.  Vol.  Ill,  Pt.  I,  p.  153  (ed.  Offor). 

119.  Mischiefs  of  S el f -Ignorance,  p.  46. 

120.  Bk.  XII,  No.  27. 

121.  Translated  by  Elizur  Wright  (Boston,  1841). 

122.  Op.,  II,  516. 

123.  De  la  Connaissance  de  Soi-Meme,  Pt.  II,  c.  xiii-xiv. 


24o  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

CHAPTER  VII 

i.  Op.  cit.  (La  Haye,  1711),  p.  12. 

2.  Bk.  II,  Allegorie  V.  Oeuvres  (ed.  Seguy  [Paris,  1745],  II,  239). 

3.  Eighth  dialogue,  "Oeuvres  Completes  de  Voltaire"  (ed.  Condorcet  [Paris, 
1880],  XXX,  507).  Voltaire,  of  course,  does  not  think  that  mind  or  soul  as  first 
principles  can  be  known.  See  Dictionnaire  Philosophique,  "Oeuvres"  (Paris, 
1826),  XXIV,  c.  i,  pp.  221,  239,  264-65,  and  elsewhere. 

4.  Ed.  Sonnini  (Paris,  1 799-1808),  XVIII-XXI. 

5.  Or.  i.    Scrittori  D'ltalia  (G.  B.  Vico,  Opere  [Bari,  1914],  I,  7). 

6.  Delia  Diceosina  0  Sia  Delia  Filosofta  Del  Giusto  e  DelV  Onesto,  Bk.  I, 
c.  vii,  sec.  2. 

7.  Or.  xiii. 

8.  Or.  xii. 

9.  Pt.  IV,  c.  i. 

10.  Pt.  II  (Schriften,  ed.  Roth  [Berlin,  1821],  II,  30  f.). 
n.  Sec.  1  {Schriften,  I,  131  ff.). 

12.  Bk.  Ill,  vss.  363-65. 

13.  First  series,  No.  49.  This  fable  is  variously  illustrated  pictorially. 

14.  See  Seneca  De  Beneficiis  iv.  23. 

15.  See  Prin.  Phil.,  Pt.  Ill,  sec.  2. 

16.  For  example,  Leibniz,  Theodicee,  Pt.  I,  sec.  194. 

17.  See  for  example,  Fragments  or  Minutes  of  Essays,  No.  42. 

18.  For  a  discussion  of  the  sources  of  Pope's  philosophy,  see  Leslie  Stephen, 
Alexander  Pope  (ed.  Morley;  New  York  and  London,  1901),  esp.  pp.  163  ff.;  and 
History  of  English  Thought  in  the  Eighteenth  Century  (New  York,  1876),  II,  349  ff.; 
also  Mabel  Dodge  Holmes,  The  Poet  as  Philosopher  (Philadelphia,  192 1). 

19.  Epistle  I,  vss.  17-18. 

20.  Ibid.,  vs.  71. 

21.  Ibid.,  vs.  174. 

22.  Ibid.,  vss.  189-90. 

23.  Epistle  IV,  vs.  396. 

24.  See  On  the  Freedom  of  Wit  and  Humor,  Pt.  Ill,  sec.  3;  Concerning  Virtue 
and  Merit,  Bk.  II,  Pt.  I,  sec.  1;  The  Moralists,  Pt.  I,  sec.  3. 

25.  In  Chalmers'  English  Poets  (London,  1810),  XV,  29. 

26.  Ibid.,  XV,  169,  col.  1  (near  close  of  poem). 

27.  Ibid.,  XV,  228. 

28.  Ibid.,  XIV,  477. 

29.  Night  VII,  vss.  869  ff. 

30.  Night  VI,  vss.  677-79. 

31.  Night  VIII,  vss.  869  ff. 


NOTES  AND  REFERENCES,  CHAPTER  VII    241 

32.  Op.  tit.,  Pt.  II  (Complete  Works  [ed.  Doran;  London,  1854],  II,  inf.). 

33.  Works  (ed.  Murphy;  London,  1820),  I,  307  ff.  (translation  on  pp.  59  ff.). 
Also  see  editor's  essay  on  his  life  and  genius,  pp.  61-62. 

34.  See  Scaliger's  epigram  in  Poemata  Omnia  (Berolini,  1864),  p.  38,  No.  39, 
entitled  "In  Lexicorum  compilatores,  inscriptum  Lexico  Arabico  a  se  collecto, 
in  Batavis": 

"Si  quern  dura  manet  sententia  iudicis  olim, 
Damnatum  aerumnis  suppliciis  caput: 
Hunc  neque  fabrili  lassent  ergastula  massa, 
Nee  rigid  as  vexent  fossa  metalla  manus. 
Lexica  contexat,  nam  caetera  quid  moror  ?  omnes 
Poenarum  facies  hie  labor  unus  habet." 

35.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  he  did  start  to  write  a  commercial  dictionary  but 
soon  abandoned  the  project. 

36.  Canto  V,  vs.  765. 

37.  Chalmers'  English  Poets,  XVIII,  45  f. 

38.  Ibid.,  XVII,  232,  col.  1. 

39.  II  Kings  8:7-15. 

40.  Sermons  of  Mr.  Yorick,  No.  4. 

41.  II  Sam.  12: 1-4. 

42.  Cf.  Vauvenargues,  Reflexions  et  Maximes,  No.  106:  "Nous  decouvrons 
en  nous-memes  ce  que  les  autres  cachent,  et  nous  reconnoissons  dans  les  autres 
ce  que  nous  nous  cachons  nous-memes." 

43.  Op.  tit.  (London,  1761),  p.  4. 

44.  Op.  tit.,  Treatise  III,  Pt.  I,  sec.  2.  (ed.  Robertson  [London,  1900],  I, 

113)- 

45.  Ibid.,  sec.  3,  pp.  127-28.  Farther  on  (Pt.  Ill,  sec.  1)  Shaftesbury  says 
more  than  once  that  it  is  the  province  of  philosophy  to  teach  us  ourselves.  In 
the  Philosophical  Regimen,  put  together  from  his  notebooks  and  published  by 
Benjamin  Rand  in  1900,  there  is  a  chapter  entitled  "The  Natural  Self"  which 
bears  the  subtitle  Yv&dt.  aeavrov.  It  is  written  in  the  style  of  Epictetus  and  con- 
tains many  translations  and  paraphrases  from  the  Discourses.  The  "natural 
self"  is  the  soul,  considered  apart  from  the  body — the  self  we  need  not  fear  to 
love — a  part  of  the  universal  mind,  governed  by  it,  and  governing  with  it. 

46.  Op.  tit.,  No.  399  ("Chalmers'  British  Essayists"  [Boston,  1856],  X,  71). 

47.  No.  24,  June  9,  1750;  and  No.  28,  June  23.  There  are  some  unimportant 
remarks  on  self-knowledge  in  No.  155  also. 

48.  Cf.  epigram  by  John  Owen,  supra,  p.  233,  n.  44. 

49.  Op.  tit.,  II,  564. 

50.  See  H.  C.  Shelley,  The  Life  and  Letters  of  Edward  Young  (London,  1914), 
p.  234. 

51.  Op.  tit.,  II,  420. 


242  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

52.  No.  244  (ed.  New  York,  1853),  written  February  28,  1751. 

53.  No.  309,  written  February  26,  1754.  Cf.  Charles  Churchill,  Gotham, 
Bk.  Ill,  pp.  54  ff.  The  young  king  of  Gotham  asks  in  his  soliloquy: 

"Have  I  explored  my  heart? 


Have  I  found  out  there 
What  I  am  fit  to  do,  and  what  to  bear? 

Have  I  familiar  with  my  nature  grown? 
And  am  I  fairly  to  myself  made  known?" 

CHAPTER  VIII 

1.  The  Persistent  Problems  of  Philosophy,  by  Mary  W.  Calkins  (New  York: 
Macmillan  Co.,  1919),  Introduction,  p.  9. 

2.  This  statement  excepts  the  materialistic  system  of  Hobbes  and  the  phe- 
nomenalism of  Hume.  For  Hobbes's  use  of  the  maxim  in  his  political  works,  see 
supra,  pp.  91  and  105. 

3.  See  Carriere,  Die  Idee  des  Schonen,  Pt.  I,  c.  i  (Gesammt.  Werke  [Leipzig, 
1886],  I,  19):  "Und  alles  Erkennen  ist  zuerst  und  zuletzt  Selbsterkennen." 
Cf.  Paul  Elmer  More,  Delphi  in  Greek  Literature,  in  Shelburne  Essays,  2d  Ser., 
p.  208:  "In  its  <the  maxim's)  last  form  Cogito,  ergo  sum  it  may  be  called  the 
parent  of  modern  philosophy." 

4.  Schelling's  system  is  an  obvious  exception  to  this,  and  so  are  the  writings 
of  the  somewhat  mystical  Baader. 

5.  See  supra,  p.  64. 

6.  See  Kuno  Francke,  Social  Forces  in  German  Literature  (New  York:  Henry 
Holt  &  Co.,  1896),  c.  viii,  Pt.  II,  p.  318:  "The  German  classic  thinkers  and  poets 
....  while  saying  the  last  word  and  embodying  the  highest  ideal  of  individual- 
ism, ushered  in  at  the  same  time  the  strongest  intellectual  movement  of  the 
nineteenth  century,  by  anticipating,  at  least  in  theory,  the  new  collective  ideal." 

7.  There  is  a  single  instance  of  the  use  of  the  maxim  in  the  sense  of  knowing 
the  phenomena  of  mind  in  the  title  of  a  series  of  ten  volumes  on  psychological 
subjects,  edited  chiefly  by  Carl  Phillip  Moritz,  and  published  in  1783.  The  title 
reads  Tv&di  Zeavrov  oder  Magazin  zur  Erfahrungseelenkunde.  The  ten  volumes, 
some  of  them  consisting  in  part  of  revisions  of  earlier  numbers,  contain  articles 
by  various  writers  on  normal  psychological  behavior,  on  cases  of  abnormal 
psychology,  etc. 

8.  Sec.  8. 

9.  Samtliche  Werke  (Leipzig,  1850),  XI,  405  ff. 

10.  Op.  cit.,  Sec.  10,  p.  417. 

11.  Op.  cit.  (translated  by  William  Wallace  [Oxford,  1894]),  p.  3. 


NOTES  AND  REFERENCES,  CHAPTER  VIII    243 

12.  Op.  cit.  (translated  by  E.  S.  Haldane  [London,  1892]),  I,  32. 

13.  Ibid.,  I,  435. 

14.  Op.  cit.  (translated  by  Haldane),  III,  7.  Cf.  Neuere  Philosophie,  Pt.  Ill, 
E:  "Bis  hierher  ist  nun  der  Weltgeist  gekommen  ....  die  letzte  Philosophie, 
die  Totalitat  der  Formen  ist.  Diese  concrete  Idee  ist  das  Resultat  der  Bemiihun- 
gen  des  Geistes  durch  fast  zweitausend  fiinfhundert  Jahre  seiner  ernsthaftesten 
Arbeit,  sich  selbst  objectiv  zu  werden,  sich  zu  kennen:  Tantae  molis  erat  se 
ipsam  cognoscere  mentem." 

15.  Uber  die  Natur  der  Philosophie  als  Wissenschaft,  in  Sdmt.  Werke  (Stutt- 
gart und  Augsburg,  1861),  Abt.  I,  Band  9,  p.  226. 

16.  Sdmt.  Werke,  XI,  43. 

17.  Sat.  i.  7. 

18.  In  a  footnote  on  this  passage  the  editor  (von  Schaden)  says  that  Baader 
is  here  giving  the  first  principles  of  philosophy,  and  he  continues:  "Denn  nur  das 
yv£>6i  aeavrdv  in  einem  unendlich  umfangreicheren  Sinn,  als  es  Socrates  that, 
genommen — fiihrt  in  das  Centrale  der  Gott-  und  Welterkenntniss  ein,  da  der 
Mensch,  der  Geist  das  alleinige  Ziel  der  Teleologie  ist: — der  Teleologie,  deren 
weder  Naturwissenschaft,  noch  Theologie,  noch  Philosophie  jemals  entrathen 
konnen." 

19.  Sdmt.  Werke,  VIII,  201-2. 

20.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  the  line  of  reasoning  followed  in  the  passages  cited 
is  largely  typical.  See  Schopenhauer,  Die  Welt  als  Wille  und  Vorstellung,  Ergan- 
zungen  zum  Buch  II,  Kap.  20  (Sdmt.  Werke  [ed.  Frauenstadt;  Leipzig,  1877] 
III,  293-94):  "Aber  sofern  das  Gehirn  erkennt,  wird  es  selbst  nicht  erkannt; 

sondern  ist  das  Erkennende,  das  Subjekt  aller  Erkenntniss Denn  der 

ganze  Process  ist  das  Selbsterkenntniss  des  Willens "  Also  Erganz.  zum 

Buch  IV,  Kap.  50,  pp.  739-40:  Bei  mir  hingegen  kommt  der  Wille  durch  seine 
Objectivation  ....  zur  Selbsterkenntniss,  wodurch  seine  Aufhebung,  Wendung, 
Erlosung,  moglich  wird."  Hegel,  Phdnomenologie  des  Geistes,  Pt.  VIII,  sec.  2 
(ed.  Lasson  [Leipzig,  192 1],  p.  514):  "Die  Wahrheit  ....  fur  den  wissenden 
Geist  in  der  Form  des  Wissens  seiner  selbst."  Fries,  Handbuch  der  Psychischen 
Anthropologic,  Vol.  I,  c.  iii,  sec.  20.  The  section  is  entitled  "Selbsterkenntniss 
und  Bewusstsein." 

21.  Sdmt.  Werke  (Leipzig,  1849),  VII,  29.  The  idea  that  man  differs  from 
the  animal  creation  and  the  world  of  natural  phenomena  generally  by  reason  of  his 
intellectual  faculties  was  connected  with  the  phraseology  of  self-knowledge  in  an 
effusive  lyric  poem  of  the  seventeenth  century  by  Antonio  Enriquez  Gomez, 
entitled  "Al  Conocimiento  de  si  Mismo." 

22.  Op.  cit.,  Bk.  II,  Pt.  I,  c.  iii,  sec.  14  (translated  by  J.  W.  Semple  [ed. 
Calderwood;  Edinburgh,  1871],  p.  257). 

23.  Ibid.,  Pt.  II,  sees.  21-22.  Cf.  Schleiermacher,  Ethik-Die  Weisheit,  No. 
17  (Werke  [ed.  Braun;  Leipzig,  1913],  II,  385):  "In  jeder  nur  die  Fortschreitung 


244  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

befordernd  vermoge  des  Speculativen,  weil  die  Selbsterkenntniss  jedes  Ganzen 
nur  ein  Werdendes,  also  die  Synthesis  immer  aufgegeben  ist." 

24.  Op.  cit.,  Bk.  II,  c.  xix,  sec.  3  (Werke  [Leipzig,  1877],  III,  235); 

25.  Cf.  Hartmann,  Philosophie  des  Unbewussten  (Berlin,  1873),  B,  c.  xi, 
sec.  16.  p.  353:  "Die  Wahl  des  Berufes  eine  grosse  Selbstkenntniss." 

26.  Pardnesen  und  Maximen,  B  14  (Werke,  V,  440). 

27.  Parerga  und  Paralipomena,  Vol.  II,  "Vereinzelte,"  c.  xxvi,  sec.  343 
(Werke,  VI,  629). 

28.  Written  December  10,  1786  (Werke,  XI,  101). 

29.  Op.  tit.  (Paris,  1830),  c.  i,  p.  6. 

30.  Op.  tit.,  Pt.  II,  ent.  6  (ed.  Paris.  1874,  p.  164).  fimile  Boutroux  says  in 
his  chapter  on  "Auguste  Comte  and  the  Religion  of  Humanity"  (Science  and  Re- 
ligion in  Contemporary  Philosophy,  Pt.  I,  c.  i,  sec.  3),  that  Comte's  conception  of 
humanity  as  the  Great  Being  does  not  satisfy — that  humanity  is  ever  changing, 
but  there  is  a  regulating  principle  dwelling  at  once  within  and  above  man  which 
he  calls  God — a  principle  revealed  by  self-knowledge.  "In  humanity  itself,"  he 
says,  "are  found  the  germs  of  a  religion  in  which  the  object  goes  beyond  humani- 
ty. In  order  that  man  should  rest  content  with  man,  it  would  be  necessary  for 
him  to  unlearn  the  yvwdi  aeavrov  of  ancient  wisdom.  He  cannot  go  to  the  founda- 
tions of  self  without  being  made  to  recognize  the  strongest  compulsion  to  enlarge 
the  reality,  the  perfection  and  the  value  of  humanity"  (Translated  by  Nield 
[London,  1909],  p.  79). 

31.  Opere  (Milan,  1841),  I,  Pt.  I,  471. 

32.  C.  i,  sec.  20  (ed.  Milan,  1846,  I,  41). 

33.  Pt.  I,  c.  ii,  sec.  1  (ed.  Milan,  1836,  p.  n). 

34.  Sec.  2,  in  Opere  (Naples,  1862),  IX,  6. 

CHAPTER  IX 

1.  Klopstock  wrote  an  ode  entitled  "Kennet  Euch  Selbst"  (Werke  [ed. 
Hamel;  Stuttgart  and  Berlin,  1884],  III,  181).  The  contents  of  the  poem,  how- 
ever, indicate  that  the  title  is  colloquial,  and  means  "Come  to  your  senses."  It 
is  an  ode  of  rejoicing  over  the  first  success  of  the  French  Revolution,  in  which  the 
poet  expresses  astonishment  at  Germany's  silence,  and  asks  if  it  be  due  to 
apathy,  or  if  it  is  as  the  calm  before  a  summer  storm.  There  is  also  a  brief 
epigram  by  Hebbel  entitled  "Selbsterkenntniss,"  which  reads: 

"Ob  du  dich  selber  erkennst?  Du  tust  es  sicher,  sobald  du 
Mehr  Gebrechen  an  dir  als  an  den  Andern  entdeckst." 

— Werke  (ed.  Von  Scholz  [Stuttgart,  1923],  IV  187 

2.  Goethe  may  owe  this  line  of  thought  to  Fichte,  consistent  though  it  is 
with  his  own  naturally  objective  point  of  view.  See  Fichte,  Ueber  das  Wesen  des 
Gelehrten,  Vorlesung  III,  where  he  advises  the  student  not  to  study  himself  to 
see  if  he  has  genius,  but  rather  to  forget  himself  in  the  pursuit  of  knowledge. 


NOTES  AND  REFERENCES,  CHAPTER  IX     245 

3.  Op.  cit.,  sec.  3  (Samtliche  Werke  [Stuttgart  und  Berlin,  1902],  IV,  236-37). 

4.  Sec.  2,  p.  224. 

5.  Sec.  13  (Samt.  Werke,  XXXIX,  48  ff.) 

6.  Schriften  zur  Literatur,  Shakespeare  und  kein  Ende,  sec.  1  (Werke, 
XXXVII,  37). 

7.  Gesprdche  mil  Goethe  von  J.  P.  Eckermann,  Friday,  April  10,  1829. 

8.  Goethe  says  in  Dichtung  und  Wahrheit,  Pt.  Ill,  Bk.  XIII  {Werke,  XXIV, 
159),  that  our  faults  and  virtues  grow  together;  but  while  the  virtues  come  forth 
into  the  light  as  we  practice  them  consciously,  our  faults  have  only  secret 
ramifications.  Consequently  we  have  to  be  surprised  by  our  faults  to  see  them, 
and  they  constantly  bring  us  trouble  and  pain.  Then  he  adds:  "Hier  liegt  der 
schwerste  Punkt  der  Selbsterkenntniss,  der  sie  beinah  unmoglich  macht." 

9.  Translated  by  Oxenford  (London,  1892),  p.  402.  Goethe  studied  drawing 
in  his  youth  and  again  tried  to  gain  some  facility  in  it  while  in  Rome  in  1786* 

10.  Samt.  Werke,  IV,  29. 

11.  Zahme  Xenien,  Bk.  VII,  vss.  19-24  {Samt.  Werke,  IV,  100-101). 

12.  Act.  II,  sc.  iii,  vss.  1237  ff.  (XII,  138).  In  contrast  with  this,  however, 
see  Faust,  Pt.  I,  vss.  1194  ff.: 

"Ach,  wenn  in  unsrer  engen  Zelle 
Die  Lampe  freundlich  wieder  brennt, 
Dann  wird's  in  unsern  Busen  helle 
Im  Herzen  das  sich  selber  kennt." 

13.  Bk.  VII,  c.  ix  (XVIII,  255-56).  The  knowledge  of  one's  self  as  revealed 
by  the  observation  of  men  in  general  is  not  always  very  flattering,  as  is  indicated 
by  the  following  epigram,  entitled  "Die  Gesuchte  Waare": 

"Welch  ein  heftig  Gedrange  nach  diesem  Laden!  wie  emsig 
Wagt  man,  empfangt  man  das  Geld,  reicht  man  die  Waare  dahin! 
Schnupf taback  wird  hier  verkauf t.  Das  heisst  sich  selber  erkennen ! 
Rieswurz  holt  sich  das  Volk,  ohne  Beordnung  und  Arzt." 

— Goethe,  Werke  (Weimar,  1887),  I,  311,  No.  18 

14.  Samt.  Werke  (Stuttgart  and  Berlin,  1902 ),  V,  132. 

15.  Werke  (Leipzig  und  Wien,  1895),  I,  158.  The  poem  is  one  of  the 
"Xenien"  published  jointly  with  Goethe  in  1797. 

16.  Sec.  n  (Samt.  Werke  [Stuttgart  and  Berlin,  1905],  XI,  58). 

17.  Sees.  688-90  (Werke  [Leipzig,  1832],  XII,  239). 

18.  Samt.  Novellen  (Stuttgart  and  Berlin,  1905),  IV,  130  ff.  This  story  was 
first  published  in  1856. 

19.  Op.  cit.,  p.  138. 

20.  Gesammelte  Werke  (Berlin,  1893),  I,  445. 

21.  Pt.  I,  Nouvelles  Genevoises  (Paris,  1853),  P-  6. 

22.  Oeuvres  Completes  (Paris,  1876),  VIII,  67. 


246  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

CHAPTER  X 

i.  William  Richardson  (i 743-1814)  was  for  many  years  professor  of  hu- 
manities in  the  University  of  Glasgow.  He  is  the  author  of  poems  and  plays,  as 
well  as  of  many  critical  works. 

2.  Charles  Colton  (i78o?-i832),  an  eccentric  Englishman  of  varied  career: — 
none  too  honorable  during  the  last  years  of  his  life — was  at  one  time  curate  of 
Tiverton,  Prior's  Quarter,  and  later,  for  about  six  years,  vicar  of  Kew  and 
Petersham  in  Surrey.  He  wrote  several  unimportant  works.  His  Lacon  (obvious- 
ly from  "laconic")  has  for  an  alternative  title,  "Many  Things  in  Few  Words 
Addressed  to  Those  Who  Think."  It  was  reprinted  several  times. 

3.  Charles  Bucke  (1 781-1846)  was  a  dramatic  and  miscellaneous  English 
writer.  His  works  include  A  Classical  Grammar  of  the  English  Language,  Amuse- 
ments in  Retirement,  Philosophy  of  Nature,  etc. 

4.  Sir  William  Hamilton  (1788-185 6),  learned  Aristotelian  scholar,  and 
likewise  versed  in  medicine  and  law.  He  was  at  length  called  to  the  chair  of  logic 
and  metaphysics  in  the  University  of  Edinburgh.  His  essay  on  Oxford  as  It 
Might  Be  is  found  in  the  Appendix  to  his  Discussions — a  collection  of  classroom 
lectures. 

5.  Pseudonym  for  David  Hoffman,  professor  of  law  in  the  University  of 
Maryland,  1817-1836.  His  Thoughts  on  Men,  Manners,  and  Things  was  first 
published  in  1837.  He  published  a  few  other  works,  chiefly  legal. 

6.  A  Philadelphia  lawyer,  who  published  also  a  biography  of  the  signers  of 
the  Declaration  of  Independence.  The  Probe,  or  One  Hundred  and  Two  Essays 
on  the  Nature  of  Men  and  Things  (cop.  1846)  has  on  the  title-page  Pope's  verse 

"The  proper  study  of  mankind  is  man." 

7.  The  "Author  of  Zoe"  was  Lloyd  Wharton  Bickley  (d.  1858).  In  The 
Aristocrat  (Philadelphia:  Key  and  Biddle,  1833),  Vol.  II,  c.  i,  opening  sentence, 
he  says:  "The  precept  'Know  Thyself  has  been  recognized  as  pithy  and  emphatic 
for  a  long  succession  of  ages,  and  is  still  received  and  taught  in  all  its  pristine 
authority."  Then  he  quotes  Pope's  famous  line,  and  proceeds  to  discuss  various 
motives  for  studying  men. 

8.  James  Henry  was  absorbingly  interested  in  Virgil,  and  after  giving  up 
his  medical  practice,  he  collected  manuscripts  and  rare  editions  of  Virgil's  works, 
and  published  valuable  commentaries  upon  the  Aeneid. 

9.  The  poem  entitled  "Know  Thyself"  does  not  appear  in  the  earlier  edi- 
tions. 

10.  One  of  these  poems  is  by  Francis  Reynolds,  pseudonym  for  Francis 
Reginald  Statham,  and  is  published  in  Glaphyra  and  Other  Poems  (London,  1870) . 
It  reads: 


NOTES  AND  REFERENCES,  CHAPTER  X   247 

TNGei  SEAT TON 

"To  know  thyself — how  hard  the  task — 
How  sad  to  bend  o'er  Memory's  scroll, 
And  from  its  records  turn  to  ask, 
What  moved  thee  to  this  crime,  O  soul? 

"Yet  know  thyself,  and  own  the  good 
As  much  as  thou  dost  hate  the  ill, 
For  only  thus  is  understood 
Which  faults  were  weakness,  which  were  will. 

"Then  shalt  thou  look  with  clearer  eyes 

Upon  the  mystery  of  sin, 

And  think,  when  doubts  again  arise, 
'I  erred  without,  but  not  within.'  " 

Another  author,  Thomas  Nelson  Haskell,  has  a  poem  entitled  "Gnothi  Seauton" 
which  reads  in  part : 

"Self-knowledge  surely  known 

Doth  a  pure  dignity  impart, 

And  must  its  Maker  own ! 

Ill 

"Then  let  me  'Know  myself,'  I  say, 
That  I  may  know  my  God; 
His  will  in  me  I  will  obey 
And  trace  where  he  hath  trod; 
For  in  his  image  was  I  made, 
A  trinity  indeed,  .  .  .  ." 
— Domestic  Poems  (Denver),  cop.  1889,  Vol.  II,  p.  167 

11.  Bk.  X,  1697-98  (Cambridge  ed.,  p.  568): 
"Some  word  of  weighty  counsel  for  man's  sake, 

Some  'Know  thyself  or  'Take  the  Golden  Mean.'  " 

12.  No.  Ill  (Cambridge  ed.,  p.  239).  The  passage  is  plainly  colloquial.  It 
reads:  "If  I  know  myself, — and  surely  a  man  can  hardly  be  supposed  to  have 
overpassed  the  limit  of  fourscore  years  without  attaining  to  some  proficiency  in 
that  most  useful  branch  of  learning  (e  caelo  descendit,  says  the  pagan  poet), — I 
have  no  great  smack  of  that  weakness  which  would  press  upon  the  public  atten- 
tion any  matter  pertaining  to  my  private  affairs." 

113.  He  was  especially  successful  as  a  portrait  and  historical  painter.  His 
"One  Hundred  Fables,  Original  and  Selected"  were  all  given  original  apologues 
and  illustrated  with  designs  of  his  own  making. 

14.  Translated  by  Henry  Fuseli  (Boston:  Thomas  and  Andrews,  1790). 


248  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

The  last  aphorism,  No.  633,  reads:  "If  you  mean  to  know  yourself,  interline 
such  of  these  aphorisms  as  affected  you  agreeably  in  reading  and  set  a  mark  to 
such  as  left  a  sense  of  uneasiness  with  you;  and  then  show  your  copy  to  whom 
you  please." 

15.  Translated  by  H.  D.  Robinson  (New  York:  George  and  A.  J.  Matsell, 

183S). 

16.  Menippea  (Dresden,  1866),  p.  24. 

17.  Past  and  Present,  Bk.  IV,  c.  vii,  in  The  Works  of  Thomas  Carlyle  (Cente- 
nary ed.  [London,  1897-1901]),  X,  292. 

18.  C.  iii,  sec.  135,  reprinted  from  The  Cestus  of  Aglaia,  c.  ii,  sec.  22. 

19.  Cf.  Tupper,  "Self- Acquaintance:" 

"Acquaint  thee  with  thyself,  O  man!  so  shalt  thou  be  humble." 
And  his  "Humility": 

"Where  the  meekness  of  self-knowledge  veileth  the  front  of  self-respect, 
There  look  for  the  man  whom  none  can  know  but  they  will  honor." 
There  is  danger,  however,  of  being  vain  of  one's  very  self-knowledge,  he  says  in 
his  "Pride" — "proud  of  thy  discoveries  of  pride." 

20.  Op.  cit.  (London,  1784),  pp.  3  ff. 

21.  The  Book  of  Human  Character  (London,  1837),  Vol.  I,  c.  xx,  pp.  38  ff. 

22.  Published  by  the  author  (3d  ed.),  p.  65  (Philadelphia,  cop.  1826). 

23.  Pt.  I,  c.  vii,  sec.  103,  pp.  170-71  (Baltimore:  Coale  &  Co.,  1837). 

24.  Poems  and  Essays  (Boston  and  New  York:  Houghton,  Mifflin  &  Co., 
1886),  p.  523.  The  precept  is  taken  to  refer  to  the  body,  as  well  as  to  our  moral 
situations,  in  a  book  entitled  Rural  Philosophy  or  Reflections  on  Knowledge, 
Virtue,  and  Happiness,  by  Ely  Bates  (London,  1803),  Pt.  I,  sec.  2. 

25.  The  word  "self-knowledge,"  and  some  form  of  the  phrase  for  knowing 
one's  self,  occurs  rather  frequently  in  nineteenth-century  English  poetry  with  a 
semi-colloquial  force,  closely  akin  to  certain  of  the  early  connotations  of  the 
maxim.  As  a  rule,  "I  know  myself"  in  the  colloquial  sense  means  "I  am  aware 
of  what  I  am  doing,  or  can  do;  I  am  fully  in  possession  of  my  faculties" — a  force 
often  given  to  it  in  the  drama  in  all  periods,  although  the  negative  colloquial 
phrase  "I  don't  know  myself"  is  more  frequent.  But  in  this  period  the  phrase 
sometimes  approaches  more  closely  to  the  serious  early  force  of  the  maxim, 
meaning  "to  be  aware  of  one's  power;  to  have  a  sense  of  personal  dignity,  of 
one's  worth  as  a  man";  and  again,  though  less  frequently,  "to  know  one's 
limitations."  As  an  instance  of  the  first,  Wordsworth  in  the  Prelude,  Bk.  XI, 
vss.  236  ff.,  is  speaking  of  the  aspirations  aroused  by  the  French  Revolution,  and 
he  says: 

"How  glorious!  in  self-knowledge  and  self-rule, 
To  look  through  all  the  frailties  of  the  world, 
And,  with  a  resolute  mastery  shaking  off 


NOTES  AND  REFERENCES,  CHAPTER  X      249 

Infirmities  of  nature,  time,  and  place, 
Build  social  upon  personal  Liberty." 
And  Burns,  in  his  "Tree  of  Liberty,"  says  that  the  fruit  of  that  tree 
".  .  .  .  raises  man  aboon  the  brute, 
It  mak's  him  ken  himsel',  man." 
So  also  Tennyson's  Princess,  Pt.  Ill,  vss.  210-n: 

" we  move,  my  friend, 

At  no  man's  beck,  but  know  ourself  and  thee," 
and  Pt.  V,  vss.  408-9: 

" 'till  she 

Whose  name  is  yoked  with  children's,  know  herself; 
And  knowledge  in  her  own  land  make  her  free." 
Cf.  Shelley,  Revolt  of  Islam,  canto  VIII,  stanza  22;  Browning,  Paracelsus,  Pt.  I, 
p.  14  (Cambridge  ed.);  Clough,  Boetie  of  Tober-na-Vuolich,  Pt.  VIII,  vss.  10  fL; 
and  Emerson's  "Uriel." 

For  the  somewhat  colloquial  use  of  the  phrase  in  the  sense  of  knowing  one's 
limitations,  see  Browning's  "Bishop  Blougram's  Apology"  (Cambridge  ed.,  p. 
353),  where  the  bishop  says  in  reply  to  the  suggestion  that  he  aim  high — try  to 
be  a  Shakspeare: 

"Spare  my  self-knowledge — there's  no  fooling  me!" 
Cf.  Colombe's  Birthday,  Act  III  (Cambridge  ed.  p.  241).  Also  Matthew  Arnold's 
Empedocles  on  Aetna: 

".  .  .  .  for  those  who  know 
Themselves,  who  wisely  take 
Their  way  through  life,  and  bow 

To  what  they  cannot  break " 

There  is  a  suggestion  of  both  ideas  in  Landor's  Pericles  and  Aspasia,  Ep.  79, 
where  Anaxagoras  says  that  if  Pericles  were  a  truly  great  man,  he  would  know 
himself.  Aspasia  presently  asks:  "You  think  him  then  ambitious?"  And  Anaxa- 
goras replies,  "Ambitious!  ....  He  might  have  been  a  philosopher,  and  he  is 
content  to  be  a  ruler." 

26.  Act  II,  sc.  ii  (Student  Cambridge  ed.  [1905],  p.  645). 

27.  Op.  cit.,  stanza  XL VII.  For  the  self-revealing  effect  of  an  exhibition  of 
Nature's  power,  cf.  Goethe's  Faust,  Pt.  I,  vss.  3228  ff. 

28.  Op.  cit.,  Lecture  II,  sees.  21-22. 

29.  Ibid.,  sec.  30. 

30.  C.  v  (New  York:  Harper  &  Bros.,  1871),  p.  79. 

31.  C.  xii,  The  Complete  Works  of  Samuel  Taylor  Coleridge  (ed.  Shedd, 
[New  York:  Harper  &  Bros.,  1884 ]),  III,  353. 

32.  Sec.  II,  Essay  XI,  in  Complete  Works,  II,  460. 

33.  Complete  Works,  IV,  358.  Farther  on,  Coleridge  says  that  Nature  or 


25o  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

Zeus  as  the  p6/j,os  kv  voni^ofikvois  knows  herself  only,  can  only  come  to  a  knowl- 
edge of  herself  in  man;  and  even  in  man,  only  as  man  is  supernatural,  above 
nature,  noetic.  But  this  knowledge  man  refuses  to  communicate:  that  is,  the 
human  understanding  alone  is  at  once  self-conscious  and  conscious  of  nature 
(pp.  364-65). 

34.  Op.  tit.,  c.  xii,  p.  335. 

35.  Ibid.,  p.  348. 

36.  Vss.  209-15  (ed.  Locock  [London:  Methuen  &  Co.,  1911],  II,  130-31). 

37.  C.  vii,  sec.  3,  in  The  Works  of  Matthew  Arnold  (London:  Macmillan  Co., 
1903),  VII,  197.  Note  also  c.  iii,  sec.  2,  pp.  89-90:  "To  find  his  own  soul,  his  true 
and  permanent  self,  became  set  up  in  man's  view  as  his  chief  concern";  and 
farther  on  in  the  same  section:  "Self-examination,  self-renouncement,  and  mild- 
ness were  ....  the  three  great  means  by  which  Jesus  Christ  renewed  righteous- 
ness and  religion." 

38.  Works,  VI,  388.  The  essay  first  appeared  in  1866. 

39.  Op.  tit.,  Introduction,  in  Works,  VI,  2. 

40.  Works,  VI,  367. 

41.  Ibid.,  p.  389. 

42.  The  Works  of  James  Russell  Lowell  (Boston  and  New  York:  Houghton 
Mifflin  &  Co.,  cop.  1864,  etc.),  I,  44. 

43.  Written  July  6,  1831.  Published  in  his  Journals  for  1824-18 32  (Boston 
and  New  York,  1909-14),  II,  395. 

44.  Cf.  ibid.,  p.  303:  "By  and  by,  in  consequence  of  his  efforts  at  self- 
knowledge,  his  mind  will  revolve  so  far  that  increasing  twilight  will  give  place 
to  the  Sun,  and  God  will  appear  as  he  is  to  his  soul." 

45.  Vss.  142-43.  For  the  thought  that  self-knowledge  is  essential  to  self- 
discipline,  see  Sir  Arthur  Helps'  essay  on  "Self-Discipline"  in  his  Companions  of 
My  Solitude  (London,  1879),  p.  222. 

46.  The  Artist's  Book  of  Fables  (London,  1845),  Fable  41. 

47.  P.  314  (New  York,  1855).  Cf.  Judson,  The  Probe,  p.  65. 

48.  First  Flight,  in  Critical  and  Miscellaneous  Essays,  Vol.  Ill  (Works, 

xxvin,  251). 

49.  Bk.  II,  c.  vii  (Works,  I,  132). 

50.  Op.  tit.,  Bk.  Ill,  c.  xi  (Works,  X,  196). 

51.  Stob  Flor.  21.  5.  Cf.  Bucke,  Book  of  Human  Character,  Vol.  I,  c.  xx, 
where  he  says  that  most  people  respect  the  advice  of  the  Menander  fragment: 
"Away  with  that  famed  maxim  Know  Thyself!' " 

52.  Poemata  (Dresden,  1866),  p.  153.  The  poem  has  no  title.  Cf.  with  this 
the  inconsequential  poem  by  Ebenezer  Smith,  Ayr,  on  "Self-Knowledge." 

53.  Menippea,  p.  53. 

54.  Poemata,  p.  117. 


NOTES  AND  REFERENCES,  CHAPTER  X      251 

55.  Vss.  558  ff.  (ed.  Locock,  I,  232).  William  Matthews  in  The  Great  Con- 
veners {The  Great  Conveners  and  Other  Essays  [Chicago,  1879]),  PP-  32~33?  says 
that  we  might  apply  these  words  to  the  conversation  of  Charles  Lamb.  Shelley's 
use  of  a  friend  to  teach  self-knowledge  is  obviously  more  subtle  than  that  of  an- 
cient writers.  Cf.  supra,  p.  68. 

56.  Essay  on  "Literary  Clubs,"  ibid.,  p.  48. 

57.  Lecture  V,  sec.  58. 

58.  See  supra,  p.  158. 

59.  Op.  cit.,  c.  cliii  (London,  1838,  V,  207). 

60.  In  Mosses  from  an  Old  Manse,  Vol.  I,  in  Works  (Boston,  1884),  III,  276. 

61.  Op.  cit.,  in  Works,  I,  81. 

62.  P.  1.  William  Thorn,  in  the  Preface  to  his  Rhymes  and  Recollections  of  a 
Hand-Loom  Weaver,  says  that  he  wants  to  reveal  to  one  portion  of  the  community 
a  glimpse  of  what  goes  on  in  the  other,  and  he  adds:  "'Man,  Know  Thyself 
should  be  written  on  the  right  hand;  on  the  left,  'Men,  know  each  other.'  It  is  a 
subject  worthy  of  a  wise  head  and  a  pithy  pen." 

63.  P.  29.  Cf.  Coleridge,  Lectures  on  Shakespeare  and  Milton,  Lecture  IX, 
sec.  2:  "In  the  plays  of  Shakespeare  every  man  sees  himself,  without  knowing 
that  he  does  so :  as  in  some  of  the  phenomena  of  nature,  in  the  mist  of  the  moun- 
tain, the  traveller  beholds  his  own  figure,  but  the  glory  round  the  head  dis- 
tinguishes it  from  a  mere  vulgar  copy"  (ed.  Ashe  [London,  1883],  p.  125). 

64.  Prose  Works  (ed.  Forman  [London,  1880]),  III,  116. 

65.  Stanza  VII. 

66.  C.  vii. 

67.  C.  xv  {Works,  IV,  248).  See  Wordsworth,  "Character  of  the  Happy 
Warrior,"  vss.  23-24,  for  temptation  as  an  aid  to  self-knowledge: 

"More  skilful  in  self-knowledge,  even  more  pure, 
As  tempted  more;  .  .  .  ." 

68.  See  supra,  p.  248,  n.  21. 

69.  Discussions  on  Philosophy,  Literature  and  University  Reform  (Edinburgh 
and  London,  1852);  Appendix  III  C,  p.  696. 

70.  In  the  book  entitled  Rural  Philosophy,  by  Ely  Bates  (see  supra,  p.  248, 
n.  24),  Pt.  I,  sec.  2,  the  retirement  of  country  life  is  advocated  as  an  aid  to  re- 
flection and  repentance.  The  author  also  advises  mingling  with  one's  fellows, 
however,  that  the  society  of  others  may  show  us  our  strength  and  our  weakness, 
for  he  regards  both  retirement  and  social  life  as  essential  to  self-knowledge. 

71.  Op.  cit.,  vss.  359-64. 

72.  Complete  Poetical  Works  (Boston,  1850),  pp.  96-97.  Tupper  says  also 
that  we  must  know  self  to  know  God,  in  his  poem  entitled  "Of  Thinking"  (p.  72) : 

"The  root  of  all  wholesome  thought  is  knowledge  of  thyself, 
For  thus  only  canst  thou  learn  the  character  of  God  toward  thee." 


252  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

73.  Poems  and  Prose  Writings  of  Richard  Henry  Dana  (New  York,  1850), 
I,  91. 

74.  Bk.  II,  c.  vii. 

75.  First  Flight,  Works,  XXVIII,  251. 

76.  C.  viii  (ed.  London,.  1874),  pp.  169  ff. 

77.  P.  82  (New  York,  1902). 

78.  P.  88.  He  insists  again  in  this  discourse  that  he  is  not  advocating  a 
purely  classical  education,  but  that  he  includes  a  knowledge  of  science  in  "the 
best  which  has  been  thought  and  said  in  the  world."  Arnold  considered  both  the 
humanities  and  science  essential;  and  moreover,  he  wished  to  see  the  study  of 
the  classics  pursued  with  a  view  to  gaining  more  of  the  spirit  of  the  literature, 
rather  than  placing  an  overemphasis  upon  the  details  of  language  structure. 

79.  The  Poetical  Works  of  Edward  Rowland  Sill  (Boston  and  New  York: 
Houghton  Mifflin  Co.,  1906),  p.  56. 

80.  Essays,  1st  ser.,  in  Works  (Centenary  ed.  [Boston  and  New  York: 
Houghton  Mifflin  Co.,  cop.  1865,  etc.]),  II,  37-38. 

81.  "Loves  Philosophies,"  sec.  I,  in  Complete  Poetical  Writings  (New  York: 
Charles  Scribner's  Sons,  1885),  p.  378. 

82.  Lectures  and  Biographical  Sketches,  in  Works,  X,  9. 
8s-  Op.  cit.,  Pt.  Ill,  sec.  3,  p.  19. 

CHAPTER  XI 

1.  There  are  suggestions  of  pantheism  in  the  Neo-Platonists,  of  course,  and 
there  is  more  of  it  in  Spinoza. 

2.  Charles  A.  Dubray  (professor  of  philosophy  at  the  Marist  College, 
Washington,  D.C.),  op.  cit.  (New  York,  London,  etc.:  Longmans,  Green  &  Co., 
1912),  p.  332. 

3.  See  supra,  p.  54. 

4.  From  a  College  Window  (New  York  and  London:  G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons, 
1907),  c.  viii,  pp.  164-65. 

5.  Mysticism  and  Logic  (New  York,  London,  etc. :  Longmans,  Green  &  Co., 
1918),  pp.  15-16. 

6.  Op.  cit.  (London:  Macmillan  Co.  Ltd.,  1921),  pp.  149-50. 

7.  C.  ii,  sec.  32. 

8.  Op.  cit.  (London,  1895),  c.  ii,  sec.  36.  Coventry  Patmore  (1832-1896), 
minor  poet  and  critic,  was  assistant  librarian  at  the  British  Museum  for  nearly 
twenty  years. 

9.  Op.  cit.,  Bk.  II,  sec.  229  (translated  by  Ludovici  in  The  Complete  Works 
of  Friedrich  Nietzsche  [ed.  Levy,  Edinburgh  and  London,  1909],  XIV  187). 
Nietzsche  says  in  Morgenrothe,  Bk.  II,  sec.  119,  that  man  does  not  know  his 
instincts — "Wie  weit  einer  Selbstkenntniss  auch  treiben  mag,  Nichts  kann  doch 


NOTES  AND  REFERENCES,  CHAPTER  XI     253 

unvollstandiger  sein,  als  das  Bild  der  gesammten  Triebe,  die  sein  Wesen  con- 
stituiren." 

10.  Op.  cit.,  sec.  1  (translated  by  Miigge  [ed.  Levy],  II,  175-76). 

11.  Indoor  Studies,  c.  ix  {Works  of  John  Burroughs  [Boston  and  New  York: 
Houghton  Mifflin  Co.,  cop.  1889,  etc.],  VIII,  279). 

12.  Sec.  S3  (translated  by  Alfred  Sutro  [New  York:  Dodd,  Mead  &  Co., 
1901]). 

13.  Sec.  7  (translated  by  Sutro). 

14.  Sees.  26  ff. 

15.  Sec.  8  (translated  by  Sutro). 

16.  Cf.  Paul  Cams,  The  Ethical  Problem  (Chicago:  Open  Court  Pub.  Co., 
1910),  p.  308:  "Self-knowledge  will  teach  him  (man)  that  he  is  a  part  of  a 
greater  whole;  ....  he  must  learn  that  his  particular  life  is  only  a  phase  in 
the  fuller  life  of  the  soul  which  came  to  him  out  of  the  past,  animating  him  now 
and  sweeping  him  onward  into  the  dim  future." 

17.  He  says  that  man  comes  to  accept  all  the  events  of  life  in  the  light  of 
this  "inner  force,"  making  them  contribute  to  his  spiritual  growth. 

18.  Sec.  25. 

19.  Op.  cit.  (New  York  and  London:  G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons,  1900),  pp.  27-28. 

20.  Op.  cit.  (translated  by  Vincent  Benson  [London  and  New  York,  1914]), 
pp.  61  f. 

21.  Op.  cit.  (New  York,  London,  etc.:  Longmans,  Green  &  Co.,  1914),  c. 
viii,  pp.  160  ff.  For  Ladd's  metaphysical  discussion  of  a  knowledge  of  the  self, 
see  his  Philosophy  of  Knowledge,  c.  vii,  entitled  "Knowledge  of  Things  and  Self" 
(New  York:  Charles  Scribner's  Sons,  1897).  There  is  relevant  material  also  in 
his  chapter  on  "Coming  to  One's  Self"  in  The  Secret  of  Personality  (Longmans, 
1918),  c.  iv. 

22.  Cf.  George  Fox-Pitt,  Free-Will  and  Destiny  (London:  Constable  and 
Co.  Ltd.,  1920),  p.  31:  "The  process  of  'knowing  one's  self  is  a  gathering 
together  as  a  synthesis  into  the  focus  of  awareness,  of  personality  co-ordinated 
as  a  relevant  whole." 

23.  Know  Thyself  (translated  by  Salvadori  [London:  Allen  &  Unwin,  Ltd., 
1915]),  p.  5.  On  page  20  he  says  that  "Socrates  would  not  have  been  obliged  to 
formulate  his  precept,  if  it  were  an  easy  thing  to  know  ourselves." 

24.  Ibid.,  p.  35. 

25.  Ibid.,  p.  318. 

26.  Gesammelte  Schriften  und  Dichtung  (Leipzig,  1883),  X,  338  ff. 

27.  Tat  tvam  asi. 

28.  The  Upanishads  were  first  translated  from  Sanskrit  into  Persian  and 
published  in  1657.  A  copy  came  into  the  hands  of  M.  Duperron,  the  discoverer 
of  the  Zend-Avesta,  in  1775,  and  he  translated  them  from  the  Persian  into  Latin. 


254  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

29.  Preface  to  the  first  edition  of  Die  Welt  als  Wille  und  Vorstellung  (written 
1818);  Parerga  und  Paralipomena,  Vol.  II,  c.  xvi,  sec.  185. 

30.  Max  Miiller  translated  twelve  of  the  Upanishads  into  English,  and 
published  them  in  Vols.  I  and  XV  of  the  "Sacred  Books  of  the  East"  series  in 
1879  and  1884,  respectively.  Among  other  German  scholars,  the  work  of  Paul 
Deussen  stands  out  conspicuously.  See  his  System  des  Vedanta  (Leipzig,  1883); 
Sechzig  Upanishads  des  Veda  (1897);  Philosophie  des  Upanishads  (1907).  Also 
English  translation  of  Deussen's  Outline  of  the  Vedanta,  according  to  Shankara, 
by  Wood  and  Runkle  (New  York:  Grafton  Press,  1906).  Among  notable  recent 
works  of  the  kind  is  The  Thirteen  Principal  Upanishads  by  Robert  Ernest 
Hume  (London:  Oxford  University  Press,  1921);  and  Dasgupta,  History  of 
Indian  Philosophy  (Cambridge:  The  University  Press,  1922). 

31.  Cf.  Paul  Elmer  More,  Delphi  in  Greek  Literature,  p.  215:  "Know  thy- 
self, the  Delphian  oracle  proclaimed,  learn  thy  individual  nature  and  so  bring 
it  into  harmony  with  life  about  thee.  'Tat  tvam  asi,'  'that  art  thou,'  is  the  watch- 
word on  the  Ganges:  thy  soul  is  itself  that  God;  know  this  and  thy  illusive 
individuality  comes  to  an  end,  and  the  world  vanishes  from  about  thee." 

32.  Prapathaka  VI,  Khanda  8  ff.  (translated  by  Hume,  pp.  246-47). 
"Atman"  is  identical  with  "Brahma"  here. 

33.  Prap.  VIII,  Kh.  7  ff.  (translated  by  Hume,  pp.  268  ff.). 

34.  The  Thirteen  Principal  Upanishads,  Introduction,  pp.  50  ff. 

35.  In  the  Book  of  the  Golden  Precepts  the  "Great  Law"  says  that  "to  reach 
the  knowledge  of  that  Self  thou  hast  to  give  up  self  to  non-Self,  Being  to  non- 
Being,  and  then  thou  canst  repose  between  the  wings  of  the  Great  Bird"  (trans- 
lated by  H.  P.  Blavatsky  in  The  Voice  of  Silence  [New  York:  Alliance  Pub.  Co., 
cop.  1889),  p.  5. 

36.  The  poem  forms  an  integral  part  of  the  Mahabharata. 

37.  The  Song  Divine  (translated  by  C.  C.  Caleb  [London,  191 1]),  Sixth  Dis- 
course, stanza  20. 

38.  Stanza  27. 

39.  The  Sacred  Books  of  the  East  (ed.  Miiller  [Oxford,  1900],  XV,  287  ff.). 

40.  Pp.  300-301.  See  adaptation  of  this  in  Message  of  the  East,  VI  (1917), 
127  ff.  Tapas,  which  Miiller  renders  "ascetic  penance,"  is  there  translated  "self- 
discipline."  For  a  more  detailed  consideration  of  the  means  to  be  employed,  see 
Deussen,  Outline  of  the  Vedanta,  c.  vi. 

41.  Second  Valli  (ed.  Boston,  1885),  p.  36. 

42.  Third  Valli,  pp.  35-36. 

43.  Bk.  XIII  (translated  by  Edwin  Arnold  in  The  Song  Celestial  [London, 
1886],  p.  128). 

44.  See  ibid.,  Bk.  VIII,  vs.  16,  p.  68:  "I  am  Purusha  who  begets." 

45.  Cf.  Prasna  Upanishad,  Pras.  I,  sec.  10  (translated  by  Hume,  p.  379): 


NOTES  AND  REFERENCES,  CHAPTER  XI     255 

"They  who  seek  the  Soul  (Atman)  by  austerity,  chastity,  faith  and  knowledge, 
they  by  the  Northern  course  win  the  sun That  is  the  immortal,  the  fear- 
less  From  that  they  do  not  return." 

46.  S.  Radhakrishnan,  The  Philosophy  of  Rabindranath  Tagore  (London: 
Macmillan  Co.  Ltd.,  1918),  p.  3. 

47.  Translated  by  Surendranath  Tagore  (New  York:  Macmillan  Co.,  19 19), 
pp.  99-100. 

48.  Modem  Review,  XXII,  339. 

49.  For  man's  oneness  with  Nature,  see  Jackson  Boyd,  The  Unveiling  (New 
York:  G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons,  1915),  Act  I,  p.  6: 

"Were  we  to  ...  . 
....  look  within  ourselves, 
Then  should  we  see  what  Nature  is!  The  All 
Would  be  revealed!" 

50.  Associate  minister  of  Community  Church  in  New  York,  and  the  author 
of  several  books. 

51.  C.  vii  (London:  William  Rider  &  Son,  Ltd.,  cop.  19 19),  pp.  157-58. 

52.  Ibid.,  p.  159.  That  the  soul  is  part  of,  and  one  with,  the  universal  self 
is  emphasized  in  Walter  Winston  Kenilworth's  Psychic  Control  through  Self- 
Knowledge  (New  York:  R.  F.  Fenno  &  Co.,  [1910]).  He  says  in  the  opening 
chapter,  which  begins  with  a  reference  to  the  Delphic  maxim,  that  a  conception 
of  what  we  mean  by  "self"  is  of  prime  importance.  Man  is  part  and  parcel  of 
the  universal  process.  His  nature  is  made  of  the  same  soul,  the  same  intellect, 
the  same  physical  and  vital  forces  which  animate  all.  All  matter,  all  force,  and 
all  life  are  one,  and  the  difference  in  manifestation  is  merely  one  of  degree. 
Future  humanity  is  latent  in  the  animal  soul;  in  the  human  soul  resides  potential 
divinity.  Again  he  says  (c.  hi)  that  the  source  of  all  is  the  Eternal  Essence,  and, 
realized  in  consciousness,  this  truth  is  no  other  than  the  knowledge  of  self.  And 
near  the  close  of  the  book,  he  says  that  the  command  "know  thyself"  has  made 
its  powerful  voice  heard  across  the  ages  like  a  thunderbolt;  but  to  know  one's 
self  is  to  realize  the  Eternal  Essence  and  the  perfect  reality  confined  in  the  soul. 

53.  Ibid.,  p.  161. 

54.  Ibid.,  p.  181. 

55.  Ibid.,  p.  162. 

56.  Ibid.,  p.  304. 

57.  Grenstone  Poems  (New  York:  Frederick  A.  Stokes  Co.,  cop.  191 7),  p.  299. 

58.  Poems  of  Personality  (Cambridge,  Mass.:  Riverside  Press,  1908),  p.  155. 

59.  "Paul,"  ibid.  (2d.  ser.,  1909),  pp.  95-98. 

60.  Cf.  his  "Athanasius,"  ibid.,  p.  112: 

" .   .   .   .  Thy  manhood  were 
The  God-head  through  and  through,  and  so  self-known!" 


256  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

Also  "Purgatory  and  Judgment,"  sec.  6  {Love  Poems  [2d  ser.,  Cambridge,  191 2], 

P-  58): 

".  .  .  .  Were  my  self-searching  soul 

Blasphemous  with  acknowledgment  of  God 

....  as  its  self  self-known?" 
See,  too,  his  poem  on  "Descartes"  in  Poems  of  Personality  (2d  ser.),  p.  185;  and 
the  poem  on  "Erigena"  in  Poems  of  Personality  (3d  ser.,  1917),  p.  103. 

61.  This  essay  was  first  published  in  the  Bayreuther  Blatter,  February- 
March,  1 88 1. 

62.  What  Wagner  really  thinks  is  that  the  antipathy  for  the  Jew  is  some- 
thing other  than  mere  race  prejudice — that  the  Jew  is  a  nomad  and  a  usurer, 
persistent  in  racial  type  and  religious  tradition,  but  incapable  of  developing  a 
culture  such  as  the  German  people  are  capable  of.  Cf .  his  Das  Judenthum  in  der 
Musik. 

63.  For  Selbsterkenntniss  applied  nationally,  see  also  his  Beethoven  (Gesammt. 
Schriften  [Leipzig,  1873],  IX,  148).  He  is  saying  that  Germany  needs  the  spirit 
of  music  to  refine  the  national  character,  whose  chief  virtue  is  the  depth  and 
inwardness  of  its  conception  of  life;  but  it  is  hard  for  Germany  to  understand  the 
real  German  spirit,  and  he  adds:  "Wie  schwer  nun  aber  die  richtige  Selbster- 
kenntniss namentlich  fur  eine  ganze  Nation  ist,  erfahren  wir  jetzt  zu  unserem 
wahren  Schrecken  an  unserem  bisher  so  machtigen  Nachbarvolke  der  Franzosen 
(in  the  war  of  1870) ;  und  wir  mogen  daraus  eine  ernste  Veranlassung  zur  eigenen 

Selbsterforschung  nehmen "  There  is  a  brief  discussion  of  knowledge  of 

self  in  the  metaphysical  sense  in  the  fragment  of  his  "Metaphysik,  Kunst  und 
Religion,"  Nachgelassene  Schriften  (Leipzig,  1895),  pp.  167-68;  and  also  an  indi- 
cation of  the  influence  of  philosophy  upon  the  religious  conception  of  self- 
knowledge  in  "Jesus  von  Nazareth,"  ibid.,  p.  78. 

64.  Unzeitgemdsse  Betrachtungen,  Pt.  II,  sec.  10  (translated  by  Collins  [ed. 
Levy],  V,  98-99). 

65.  Op.  tit.,  sec.  1  (translated  by  Collins  [ed.  Levy],  V,  107).  See  also 
Zarathustra,  Pt.  Ill,  c.  lv,  sec.  2. 

66.  Works  (ed.  Ross),  XI,  129-30. 

67.  In  The  Soul  of  Man  under  Socialism,  II,  288,  Wilde  contrasts  the  "Know 
thyself"  of  the  ancient  world  with  the  "Be  thyself"  of  Christ,  as  he  terms  it. 

68.  Truths  or  Truisms  (London:  Henry  Frowde;  New  York:  Oxford  Uni- 
versity Press,  1911),  Pt.  Ill,  pp.  69  ff.  William  Stebbing  (1832-1926)  was  eve- 
ning lecturer  in  history  at  King's  College,  examiner  for  Indian  civil  service,  and 
leader-writer  for  The  London  Times  for  many  years.  He  is  the  author  of  many 
books,  including  Sir  Walter  Raleigh:  a  Biography;  Five  Centuries  of  English 
Verse;  etc. 

69.  See  supra,  p.  106. 


NOTES  AND  REFERENCES,  CHAPTER  XI     257 

70.  Act  IV,  sc.  i  {Poems  and  Plays  [New  York:  Macmillan  Co.,  1916],  II, 
136).  Cf.  Charles  Rann  Kennedy,  The  Servant  in  the  House  (New  York  and 
London:  Harper  Bros.,  1908),  Act  V,  p.  144,  where  Robert  tells  of  the  change  in 
him  which  Manson  has  wrought:  "'e  taught  me  my  own  mind;  'e  brought  me 
back  to  my  own  job." 

71.  C.  ix,  pp.  294-95  (London:  Macmillan  Co.  Ltd.,  1902).  Dr.  Henry 
Maudsley  (183  5-1 9 18)  was  professor  of  medical  jurisprudence  in  the  University 
of  London  for  several  years.  He  published  a  number  of  books  on  medical  and 
allied  themes. 

72.  Nietzsche  says  in  "Worin  man  sich  Kennet,"  in  Morgenrbthe,  Bk.  IV, 
sec.  212,  that  man,  like  the  beast  of  the  field,  knows  himself  only  by  comparison 
with  his  fellows,  and  so  knows  only  his  offensive  and  defensive  powers.  He  says 
further,  in  Frohliche  Wissenschaft,  Bk.  V,  sec.  354,  that  man's  very  consciousness 
of  himself  arose  out  of  the  necessity  for  communication — for  making  his  needs 
known  to  others  of  his  kind;  and  so,  however  much  he  may  try  to  understand 
himself  as  an  individual,  the  most  that  he  can  know  is  what  is  not  individual  in 
him  but  the  qualities  which  he  shares  in  common  with  other  men. 

73.  "The  Mirror,"  Pt.  I  (in  Selected  Poems  [New  York:  Macmillan  Co., 
1922],  p.  133). 

74.  Op.  cit.,  Act  IV,  first  part  (Poems  and  Plays,  II,  154-55). 

75.  Ibid.,  p.  157. 

76.  See  supra,  p.  68-69. 

77.  Preface  to  Over-ruled,  pp.  73-74. 

78.  Books  and  Culture  (New  York:  Dodd,  Mead  and  Co.,  1897),  p.  84. 
Cf.  Ian  Colvin,  Aesop  in  Politics  (Edinburgh  and  London:  William  Black- 
wood &  Sons,  1914),  Introduction,  p.  6.  He  says  of  teaching  by  animal  fable; 

"And  in  the  vain  and  fickle  crow 
The  mob  its  silly  self  would  know, 
Coaxed  by  the  vulpine  arts  that  please 
To  ope  its  beak  and  drop  its  cheese." 

79.  C.  xxi,  pp.  202-4  (Philadelphia:  J.  B.  Lippincott  Co.,  1901).  For  the 
self-knowledge  taught  by  disappointment  in  love,  see  Reginald  Robbins,  Parnas- 
sus {Love  Poems  [2d.  ser.],  p.  83) : 

11 Shall  soul 

Not  burst  anew  into  some  wiser  song 

Sweeter  for  more  self-knowledge  by  this  pain?" 

80.  Translated  by  Collins  (ed.  Levy),  V,  Pt.  II,  107. 

81.  Lecture  V  (translated  by  Kennedy  [ed.  Levy],  III,  133). 

82.  Cf.  Frohliche  Wissenschaft,  Bk.  I,  sec.  15,  where  he  compares  the  frame 
of  mind  engendered  by  a  closer  self-knowledge  to  the  disenchantment  experi- 
enced in  climbing  a  mountain  which  has  looked  beautiful  in  the  distance.  In 


258  THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 

another  passage  he  says  that  the  savant  is  what  he  is  because  of  self-knowledge; 
he  despises  himself  and  so  tries  to  lose  himself  in  serving  those  who  are  to  come 
after  him  (Wir  Philologen,  c.  v,  sec.  6).  Again  he  says  that  the  idealist  finds  it 
prudent  to  avoid  knowing  himself  (Der  Wille  zur  Macht,  Bk.  II,  sec.  344) — a 
process  which  is  not  difficult,  for  it  is  easier  to  forget  or  deny  one's  ugliness  than 
to  see  one's  self  for  what  he  is.  One  can  see  himself  only  as  he  surprises  himself, 
torch  in  hand  {Menschliches,  Allzumenschliches,  Pt.  II,  sec.  316). 

83.  Translated  by  Ludovici  (ed.  Levy),  Vol.  XIV,  p.  344,  sec.  426. 

84.  Ed.  Levy,  XVII,  180.  Zoroaster's  saying  "He  who  knows  himself, 
knows  all  things  in  himself"  is  frequently  quoted  in  the  modern  period.  See 
Emerson,  Ethnical  Scriptures,  "Uncollected  Writings"  (New  York:  Lamb  Pub. 
Co.,  cop.  191 2),  p.  130;  Longfellow,  The  Divine  Tragedy,  "Christus,"  Pt.  I, 
Passover  II,  sec.  11;  Philip  James  Bailey,  Festus  (Boston,  1853),  p.  570. 

85.  "Why  I  Am  So  Clever,"  op.  cit.  (ed.  Levy),  Vol.  XVII,  p.  49,  sec.  9. 

86.  Op.  cit.,  Pt.  II,  sec.  366  (translated  by  Helen  Zimmern  [ed  Levy],  VII, 
168). 

8 j.  Life  in  Mind  and  Conduct,  c.  ix,  pp.  294-295. 

88.  Op.  cit.  (New  York  and  London:  G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons,  1900),  c.  ii,  p.  45. 
See  also  Dresser's  The  Power  of  Silence  (Boston:  Geo.  H.  Ellis,  1895),  especially 
pp.  146-47. 

89.  Op.  cit.  (New  York:  The  Dial  Press,  Lincoln  MacVeaugh,  cop.  1925), 
c.  i,  sec.  1,  p.  3. 

90.  What  Can  I  Know?  p.  172.  In  this  connection  see  Dubray,  Introductory 
Philosophy,  p.  337. 

91.  Ibid.,  p.  178. 

92.  Ibid.,  p.  180. 

93.  Ibid.,  p.  185. 

94.  Op.  cit.  (ed.  by  Robert  Latta,  London:  Macmillan  Co.  Ltd.,  1905),  p. 
251.  David  Ritchie  was  professor  of  logic  and  metaphysics  in  the  University  of 
St.  Andrew. 

95.  Translated  by  Barry  Cerf  and  published  in  Chief  Contemporary  Drama- 
tists (ed.  by  Thos.  Dickinson  [1st  ser.;  Boston,  New  York,  etc.:  Houghton, 
MifHin  Co.,  cop.  1915]),  pp.  521  ff. 

96.  Sonnets  by  James  Vila  Blake  (private  ed.,  Chicago,  1898),  No.  91. 
James  Vila  Blake  (1842-1925),  minor  poet  and  prose  author,  was  a  Unitarian 
and  Congregational  minister,  his  last  pastorate  being  at  Evanston,  Illinois.  Cf. 
poem  entitled  "Self-Utterance"  by  Henry  Bryan  Binns  in  The  Free  Spirit 
(London  and  New  York,  1914),  p.  66:  "I  had  not  known  my  spirit  but  for  you." 

97.  Wisdom  and  Destiny,  sec.  9  (translated  by  Sutro). 

98.  Schopenhauer  as  Educator,  sec.  1  (translated  by  Collins  [ed.  Levy],  V, 
107). 


NOTES  AND  REFERENCES,  CHAPTER  XI     259 

99.  Op.  cit.,  sec.  48  (translated  by  Kennedy  [ed.  Levy],  IX,  53). 

100.  Bk.  IV,  sec.  335  (ed.  Levy,  X,  259). 

101.  Chap,  iv,  sec.  80.  Heracleitus  too  was  a  man  of  whom  Nietzsche  ap- 
proved. He  could  say  of  himself,  "  'Mich  selbst  suchte  und  erforschte  ich'  .... 
mit  einem  Worte,  durch  das  man  das  Erforschen  eines  Orakels  bezeichnet:  als  ob 
er  der  wahre  Erfuller  und  Vollender  der  delphischen  Satzung,  'Erkenne  dich 
selbst'  sei,  und  niemand  sonst"  {Die  Philosopkie  im  tragischen  Zeitalter  der 
Griechen,  sec.  8). 

102.  Life  in  Mind  and  Conduct,  c.  ix,  p.  294. 

103.  Human,  All-Too-Human,  Pt.  II,  sec.  223  (translated  by  Cohn  [ed. 
Levy],  VII,  117). 

104.  Varia,  Studies  on  Problems  of  Philosophy  and  Ethics,  by  William  Knight 
(professor  of  philosophy  in  the  University  of  St.  Andrews  [d.  1916])  (London, 
1901),  c.  x,  p.  165. 

105.  Op.  cit.  (London:  University  of  London  Press,  1917),  pp.  18-19. 


INDEX 


INDEX 


Abbadie,  Jacques,  VArt  de  se  Con- 

noitre  Soy-meme,  117,  133 
Addison  in  The  Spectator,  130 
Aeschylus :  allusions  in,  to  yv&Oi,  <reav- 

rovy  49,  55 ;  allusions  in,  to  fj,r)8ev  ayav, 

20  f.;    comment    on,    by    Reginald 

Robbins,  46 
Aesop:  fable  of  two  sacks,  60  f.,  95  f., 

171;  fable  of  Mule,  112 
Alciati:  "Dicta  Sept.  Sap.,"  16,  30,  86, 

106,  216;  "Submovendam  Ignoran- 

tiam,"  237 
Alcibiades,  61.  For  Alcibiades  I,  see 

Plato 
Alexander,  51,  58 
Alpheius  of  Mitylene,  epigram  of,  on 

ixrjdev  ayav,  24,  34 

Ambrose :  Hexaemeron,  Song  of  Songs, 

71]  In  Ps.CXVIII,  72 
Apollo,  5  f.,  8,  54,  56,  73,  137,  176 
Apuleius,  De  Dogm.  Plat.,  56 
Aristocrat,  The,  by  the  author  of  Zoe, 

156,  246 
apuTTov  fxerpov  19  f.,  24,  26,  43 
Aristophanes,  Clouds,  51 

Aristotle:  Ethics,  19,  47,  51,  54,  68; 
Magna  Moralia  (?),  60,  68;  Rhetoric, 
22,  26,  44,  53,  220 

Arnold,  Edwin,  The  Secret  of  Death, 
192 

Arnold,  Matthew:  Culture  and  An- 
archy, 165, 166;  Discourses  in  Ameri- 
ca, 177  f.;  Empedocles  on  Aetna,  249; 
The  Higher  Schools  and  Universities 
in  Germany,  177;  Literature  and 
Dogma,  165;  "My  Countrymen," 
165,  166.  For  name  as  title  of  poem, 
see  Robbins 

Ascham,  Roger,  Toxophilus,  86,  92 

Augustine.  See  St.  Augustine 


Ausonius,  Masque  of  Seven  Sages,  11  f., 

i5f-,  25 
Avila,  Juan  d',  Spiritual  Letters,  101  f. 

Baader:  Letters,  143;  Prelim.  Report 
on  Trans,  of  Metaphysics,  137;  Re- 
ligions philosophie,  140;  Tagebuch, 
139  f- 

Bacon,  De  Augmentis,  88,  97  f.,  no 

Balde,  Jacob,  "Nosce  te  Ipsum,"  86, 
95 

Balzac,  89  f . 

Barclay,  Ship  of  Fools,  83  f . 

Basil,  Give  Heed  to  Thyself,  70  f.,  73 

Bates,  W.  N.,  theory  of,  regarding 
origin  of  the  E,  6 

Baxter,  Richard,  Mischiefs  of  Self- 
Ignorance  and  Benefits  of  Self -Ac- 
quaintance, 86  n\,  97, 101,  113  f.,  129 

Benson,  Arthur,  Egotism,  182 

Bergson,  Immediate  Data  of  Con- 
sciousness, 187  f. 

Bhagavad-Gitd,  191  f. 

Bias,  8  f.,  16,  22  f.,  33 

Binyon,  Lawrence,  "The  Mirror," 
199  f. 

Blake,  James  Vila,  sonnet  by,  208,  238 

Boccalini,  Adv.  from  Parnassus,  86, 
106,  198 

Bocchius,  Achilles,  emblem  by,  107 

Boehme,  Jacob,  101 

Bossuet,  De  la  Con.  de  Dieu  et  de  Soi- 

mtme,  86,  97 
Boxhorn,  "Ne  quid  nimis,"  31 
Brant,  Narrenschif,  83 

Browne,  Sir  Thomas:  Christian  Mor- 
als, 234;  Miscellanies,  214;  Pseudo- 
doxia,  46,  86  f.,  98;  Religio  Medici, 
236 


263 


264 


THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 


Browning:  quoted  from  other  poems, 
249;  Ring  and  the  Book,  157,  247 

Bucke,  Charles,  Book  of  Human  Char- 
acter, 156,  159,  175,  240,  250 

Bude,  De  Trans.  Hellenismi  ad  Christ., 
92 

Buffon,  Histoire  Naturelle  de  U  Homme, 
117  f. 

Bunyan,  Pilgrim's  Progress,  113,  234 

Burns:  "Epistle  to  Davie,"  174;  "Tree 
of  Liberty,"  249 

Burroughs,  John,  An  Egotistical  Chap- 
ter, 184  f. 

Burton,  Anatomy  of  Melancholy,  37,  42 

Bynner,  Witter,  "How  Can  I  Know 
You  All?"  194  f. 

Byron,  Cain,  160 

Calvin,    Institution    de    la    Religion 

Chrestienne,  100 
Camerarius:  emblem  by,  30;  "Masque 

of  the  Seven  Sages,"  15,  30 
Carlyle,  Count  Cagliostro,   170,   177; 

disapproval  of  yvu>6i  aeavrov,  169, 

177;  Past  and  Present,  158;  Sartor 

Resartus,  170,  177 
Cathartic  activity,  66  f . 
Cats,  Jacob,  Proteus,  30  f.,  219 
Charron,  De  la  Sagesse,  101,  109,  238 
Chaucer,  82 
Chesterfield,  Lord,  Letters  to  His  Son, 

37,  39,  127,  132 
Chilon,  8  f.,  n,  16,  41,  131 

Cicero,  De  Finibus,  2,  25,  69;  De 
Legibus,  63,  69;  Ep.  ad  Quint.,  54, 
182;  Philipics,  52;  Tusc.  Dis.  25,  63 

Clement  of  Alexandria,  n,  69  f.,  72 

Cleobulus,  8,  19,  25,  30,  36,  39,  43 

Cognoy-toy,  101 

Coleridge:  Aids  to  Reflection,  175; 
Biographia  Liter  aria,  163  f.;  The 
Friend,  163  f.;  On  Shak.  and  Milton, 
250;  poem  on  self-knowledge,  169; 
Prometheus  of  Aeschylus,  163  f. 

Coloquio  de  Conocimiento  de  si  Mismo. 


See  Dona  Oliva  Sabuco  de  Nantes 

Barrera. 
Colton,  Charles,  Lacon,  169,  246 
Comte,  Catechisme  Positiviste,  143  f., 

244 
Connais-Toi,  by  Paul  Hervieu,  206  f. 
Connais-toi  toi-mtme,  155 
Conocete  a  ti  mismo,  99,  102 
Conosci  te  stesso,  145 
"Conoscimiento   de   si    Mismo,"    by 

Gregorio  Silvestre,  97 
Contemplation,  75  f.,  113  f.,  147,  155, 

169 
Cook,  A.   B.,  theories  of,  regarding 

meaning  of  the  E,  6 
Cooper,  John  Gilbert,  "The  Tomb  of 

Shakespear,"  123 
Cotton,  Visions  in  Verse,  126 
Cowper,  "Charity,"  176 
Cratinus  the  Younger,  1 1 
Culpeper,  Thomas,  Essays  or  Moral 

Discourses,  no 

Dana,  Richard  Henry,  "Thoughts  on 

the  Soul,"  176 
Dante:  Paradiso,  77;  Purgatorio,  77 
Davies,  John,  Nosce  Teipsum,  87,  89, 

94,  97,  ioif.,  112,  239 
De  Cognitione  Sui,  by  Rinaldi,  118 
"Del  Conocimiento  de  si  Mismo,"  by 

Fray  Luis  de  Leon,  234 
De  la  Connaissance  de  Dieu  et  de  Soi- 

meme,  by  Bossuet,  86,  97 
De  la  Connaissance  de  Soi-mtme,  by 

Pierre  Nicole.  See  Nicole 
Delphi,  1  ff.,  6,  n,  48,  57,  66,  98,  138, 

158,  198 
Descartes,  97,  109,  121 
De  Spuches,  Guiseppe,  Greek  poem  of, 

on  (ir)8ev  ayav,  41 
"Difficulty    of    Knowing     Oneself," 

sermon  by  Jonathan  Swift,  127  f. 
Dio  Chrysostom,  9,  51 
Diodorus  Siculus,  9,  12  ff.,  23 
Diogenes  the  Cynic,  51 


INDEX 


265 


Diogenes  Laertius,  13,  17 
Dionysius  the  Areopagite,  75 
Discorso  Sopra  le  Sentenze  Ne  quid 

nimis  e  Nosce  te  ipsum.  See  Speroni 
Donne,     John:     "Anatomy    of    the 

World,"  98;  "Ode,"  94 
Dornseiff,  theory  of,  regarding  origin 

of  the  E,  6 
Dresser,  Horatio:  Education  and  the 

Philosophical  Ideal,  185;  Voices  of 

Freedom,  205 

E,  letter  at  Delphi,  1-7,  214 

E  apud  Delphos.  See  Plutarch 

Eckhart,  Master,  75,  79 

JZyyva,  irapa  8' art],  I,  8  f.,  9,  II  ff.,  70 

Eliot,  George,  Felix  Holt,  157,  162  f. 

Elyot,  Thomas,  The  Governour,  88  f., 

92  f.,  96,  104,  220 
Emerson:    Demonology,     179;     TvcbOi 

ZeavTov,   168;  Holmes  on,  42;  On 

History,  178 
Engelgrave,  emblem  by,  107 
Epicharmus,  11 
Epictetus,  53,  63 
eirov  deep,  13 
Erasmus,  231;  Adagio,  16,  28,  S3,  88; 

Colloquies,  28,  29;  Letters,  16,  18,  28, 

32 
Erkenne  dich,  147  fL 
Erkenne  dich  selbst,  147,  153,  183,  197, 

208  f.  See  also  Heyse  and  Wagner 
Ethical  interpretation  of  y vEodi  oeavrov, 

141  fL,  162,  164 
Euripides:  Frag,  on  kyyva,  irapa  5' art] 

11;  Hippolytus,  70,  72;  mention  of, 

by  R.  Robbins,  46 
Evenus,  Frag.,  19 
Evolutionary:  development   of   race, 

181 ;  point  of  view,  209 

Faerno,  Gabriel,  "Mulus,"  112,  238 
Fajardo,  Idea  de  un  Princ.  Crist.  Pol., 

32  L 
Feltham,  Owen,  Resolves,  222 


Ferrucci,  "Ne  quid  Nimis,"  37,  42 
Feuerbach,  Das  Wesen  des  Christen- 

thums,  136,  141 
Fite,  Warner,  Moral  Philosophy,  205 

Galen,  59,  68,  105 

Galuppi,  Saggio  Filosofico,  144  f. 

Gay,  Fables,  121 

Genovesi,  La  Diceosina,  118 

Gesta  Romanorum,  79  L,  100 

Geulincx,  Ethica,  37,  40,  86,  99,  222 

Tv&di  creavrov,  1,  4,  8  fL,  21,  23,  28,  33, 
49  ff.,  et  passim;  equivalent  to  "That 
Art  Thou,"  193  fL;  estimation  of, 
in  antiquity,  9  L,  in  sixteenth-  and 
seventeenth-century  literature,  85 
ff.;  meanings  in  antiquity,  49  fL,  in 
sixteenth-  and  seventeenth-century 
literature,  88  ff.,  in  eighteenth- 
century  literature,  133,  in  last  fifty 
years,  211  (see  also  "Know  Thy- 
self" and  Self-knowledge);  occur- 
rence in  titles:  Tv&di  Xeavrdv  by 
Valentin  Weigel,  75,  poems  by 
Emerson,  168,  by  James  Henry,  158, 
170,  by  Dr.  Johnson,  125  L,  Tv&di 
Xeavrov  sive  Ethica,  by  Geulincx, 
99  (by  James  Henry,  158, 170),  r.  2. 
oder  Magazin  zur  Erfahrungseelen- 
kunde,  242;  inscribed  on  tablets, 
157  L,  213;  in  mosaic  tomb  floor, 
59 

Goethe:  "Aus  dem  Nachlass,"  150; 
Conversations  with  Eckermann,  148; 
Natur  und  Wissenschaftslehre,  147  f . ; 
On  Shakespeare,  148;  "Sprichwort- 
lich,"  148  L;  Tasso,  149;  Wilhelm 
Meister,  150;  Zahme  Xenien,  149; 
Zueignung  to  poems,  146 

Goettling,  theories  of,  regarding  max- 
ims, their  original  number,  location, 
etc.,  2  ff. 

Gower,  Confessio  Amantis,  80 

Gracian,  Baltasar:  El  Criticon,  35  f., 
39,  87,  98  L,  219  f.;Ordculo  Manual, 
231 

Grainger,  James,  "Solitude,"  123 

Green,  Matthew,  "The  Spleen,"  123 


266 


THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 


Grumbler,  Anthony,  Men,  Manners, 
and  Things,  159,  246 

Hall,   Joseph,    Christian   Moderation, 

37  H. 
Hamann,  Brocken,  Sokratische  Denk- 

wilrdigkeiten,  119  f. 
Hamilton,  Sir  William,  Oxford  as  It 

Might  Be,  175,  246 
Hawthorne:     Feathertop,     173,     202; 

House  of  Seven  Gables,  175 
Hegel:  History   of  Philosophy,    16  f., 

137  f.;     interpretations    of    eyyva, 

Trapa  d'arrj,  16  ff.;  interpretations  of 

7p<30i  aeavTov,  137  ff . ;  Introduction  to 

Greek  Phil.,  43;  Philosophy  of  Mind, 

137;  Phil,  of  Middle  Ages,  138  f. 
Henry,  James,  poems  of,  158,  i7of. 
Heracleitus,  49 
Herodotus,  12 

Hervieu,  Paul,  Connais-Toi,  206  f. 
Hesiod,  19 

Heyns,  Zacharias,  emblem  of,  89 
Heyse's  Erkenne  dich  selbst:  the  poem, 

154;  the  story,  152  ff.,  207 
Hierocles,  On  the  Golden  Verses  of  the 

Pythagoreans,  24 
Hieronymus,  25 

Hilton,  Walter,  Scale  of  Perfection,  78 
Hobbes:  Leviathan,  86,  91,  105,  236  f.; 

The  Whole  Art  of  Rhetoric,  220 
Holland,  J.  G.,  Mistress  of  the  Manse, 

178  f. 
d'Hollbach,  System  of  Nature,  157 
Holmes,  Oliver  Wendell:  Emerson,  42; 

Over  the  Teacups,  39  f. 
Homer,  13,  24,  zz 

Hughes,  Thomas,  Tom  Brown  at  Ox- 
ford, 41 

Immortality,  doctrine  of,  connected 

with  7j/<20i  creavrov,  73,  101 
Indian  sages,  63 
Internationalism,    linked   with    y.a., 

210  f. 
Ion,  Frag.,  67 


Irenaeus,  70 

Isocrates,  Panathenaicus,  57 

John  of  Salisbury,  Polycraticus,  26  f., 

218 
Johnson,  Dr. :  article  in  The  Rambler, 

130  f.;  Tv&di  Xeavrov,  125  f. 
Juan  d'Avila,  86 

Judson,  L.  Carroll,  The  Probe,  159,  246 
Julian,  Letter  to  Iamblichus,  55;  Letter 

to  Themistius,  53;  Orations,  62  f.,  67 
Juvenal,   "E    caelo    descendit     yv&dt. 

<reavT6v,"g,  52, 117,  I27ff.,  163,  169, 

175,  247 

Kant :  influence  of  upon  interpretation 
of  yvwdi  creavrov  143,  186,  188;  inter- 
pretations of  y.cr.,  136  f.,  141  f.;  Met- 
aphysics of  Ethics.,  141  f. 

Kenilworth,  Walter  W.,  Psychic  Con- 
trol through  Self -knowledge,  258 

"Kenne  dich,"  by  von  Logau,  95 

Kenne  dich  selbst,  152 

Kingsley,  Alton  Locke,  174  f. 

Klinger,  Betrachtungen  ....  uber  Ver- 
schied.  Gegenstande  der  Welt  und 
Liter  atur,  151  f. 

Knight,  William,  Varia,  210 

Know  Thyself,  by  B.  Varisco,  186  f. 

"Know  Thyself,"  poem  by  Jones  Very, 
159 

"Know  thyself,"  1  f.,  49,  88  f.,  92  f., 
121,  124,  131  f.,  137  ff.,  141,  i44, 
159  ff.,  170,  172,  175  f.,  184,  186  f., 
I93>  z95  ff-j  20I>  204  f.,  210  f.;  col- 
loquial use  of  phrase,  248  f . ;  mean- 
ing— know  body,  61  f.,  159  f.;  know 
dual  nature,  62  f.,  96  f.,  118,  133; 
know  faults,  59  f.,  94  f.,  133,  159, 
171, 182, 185,  211;  know  high  worth, 
54,  89,  91,  161,  182;  know  limits  of 
wisdom,  52,  56  f.,  133,  161,  211; 
know  mind,  151,  162  f.;  know  na- 
tional characteristics,  196  f.,  256; 
know  place,  52,  55,  88,  91,  158,  211; 
know  self  ethically,  136,  142;  know 
self  psychically,  136,   163  f.;  know 


INDEX 


267 


self  in  relation  to  universe,  64,  71; 
know  soul,  58  f.,  61,  63  f.,  96,  99  f., 
118  f.,  121  f.,  133, 165,167, 177, 185, 
193,  211;  know  soul  immortal,  73, 
101;  know  special  bent,  52,  54,  92, 
211;  know  we  are  created  in  God's 
image,  72,  78,  100,  212;  know  we  are 
human  and  mortal,  52,  57  f.,  73,  93, 
122,  133,  161,  211;  know  we  are  sin- 
ners, 72,  78,93, 100,  212;  know  what 
one  can  do,  52  f.,  88,  in,  133,  152, 
159,  169  f.,  177,  182,  193,  211;  know 
your  measure,  49  ff.,  57,  88,  118, 
121,  126,  133,  158,  182,  211.  See 
Self-Knowledge 
Kreihing,  "Nosce  teipsum,"  107 

Ladd,  What  Can  I  Know?  186,  205  f. 
La  Fontaine,  Fables,  36  f.,  86,  113  f. 
Lagercrantz,     theory    of,     regarding 

meaning  of  the  E,  6 
La  Rochefoucauld,  155 
Latimer,  Hugh,  Sermons  before  Edward 

VI,  in,  113,  238 
Lavater,  Aphorisms  on  Man,  157 
LeRoy,  Edouard,  The  New  Philosophy 

of  Henri  Bergson,  186  f. 
Location  of  maxims  on  temple,  3  f . 
Logau,  Friedrich  von:  "Die  hochste 

Weissheit,"  236;  "Kenne  Dich,"  95; 

"Selbsterkenntniss,"  95 
Lowell:  "A   Day   at    Chartres,"    44; 

Bigelow    Papers,     157;    Cambridge 

Thirty     Years    Ago,     167  f.,     173; 

Leaves  from  Journal,  43 
Lucian:  Dialogues  of  the  Dead,  58;  On 

Pantomime,  68 
Luis  de  Granada,  101 
Luis  de  Leon,  101,  234 
Luther,  86,  234 

Lydgate,  John:  "Poem  against  Self- 
Love,"  89,  230;  "Steele  Glas,"  238 

Mabie,  H.  W.,  on  "Books,"  202 
Mackaye,  Percy:  Jeanne  D'Arc,  199; 

The  Scarecrow,  199,  200  ff.,  207 
Macrobius,  3,  67 


Maeterlinck:  essay    on    Ruysbroeck, 

75  f.;  Wisdom  and  Destiny,  185,  208 
Mamiani,  145 
Martial,  69 

Mason,  John,  Self -Knowledge,  128  f. 
Massias,  Le  Baron,   Traite  de  Phil. 

Psych-phys.,  143 
Matthews,    William,    Literary    Clubs, 

157,  172 
Maudsley,  Henry,  Life  in  Mind  and 

Conduct,  199,  204,  209 

Mr)8ev  ayav,  1,  8  ff.,  13,  19  ff.,  49,  53, 
217;  applications  in  Greek  litera- 
ture, 20  ff.,  26,  in  medieval  lit., 
26  ff.,  in  Renaissance  and  later  lit., 
28  ff.;  works  of  sixteenth  century 
and  following  in  which  \x-rfikv  ayav 
occurs,  37  f. 

Microcosm,  63,  71,  102  f. 

Milton,  Paradise  Lost,  37,  39,  87,  90, 
231 

Minucius  Felix,  69  f. 

Mirror,  symbol  of  self-knowledge,  68, 
78  f.,  83,  106,  108  ff.,  120,  130,  133, 
142,  147,  155,  167  f.,  173  f.,  199, 
200  ff.,  241  ff. 

"Mirror,  The,"  by  Lawrence  Binyon, 
199  f. 

Mischiefs  of  Self -Ignorance  and  Benefits 
of  Self -Acquaintance.  See  Baxter 

Moliere,  Impromptu  of  Versailles,  no 
Montaigne,  Essais,  86,  89,  104,  109  f., 

233,  236 
Montchrestien,  Aman,  93  f. 
Moore,  George,  Sister  Teresa,  202  f. 

More,  Paul  Elmer,  Delphi  in  Greek 
Lit.,  37  f.,  47,  224,  242 

Musset,  Alfred  de,  Histoire  d'un  Merle 
Blanc,  154  f. 

Mystical  concept  in  relation  to  self- 
knowledge,  101  ff.,  168,  212 

Nationalism  linked  with  yp&di  aeavrdv, 
210  f. 

Nemesius,  62 


268 


THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 


Neo-Platonists,  64  f.,  71,  73,  75,  135, 
164,  211 

Ne  quid  nimis,  20,  25  ff.,  114;  criticism 
of,  44  ff.  For  use  as  title,  see  Box- 
horn,  Cats,  Fajardo,  Ferrucci,  and 
Speroni 

Nicole,  Pierre,  De  la  Connaissance  de 
Soi-Mtme,  86  f.,  93,  95,  101,  105, 
109,  114 

Nietzsche:  "Between  Birds  of  Prey," 
203  f.,  209;  Beyond  Good  and  Evil, 
183;  Dawn  of  Day,  41,  208  f.,  252 
f.,  257;  Ecce  Homo,  204;  Future 
of  Educational  Institutions,  203; 
Human,  All  Too  Human,  204,  209  f.; 
Schopenhauer  as  Educator,  198,  203, 
208;  The  Joyful  Wisdom,  209,  257  f.; 
Use  and  Abuse  of  History,  197  f.; 
Will  to  Power,  42,  184,  203 

Nihil  nimis,  46,  87 

Northcote,  James,  Artist's  Book  of 
Fables,  157,  168  f.,  171 

Nosce  te,  69 

Nosce  Teipsum:  by  John  Davies,  86  f., 
89,  97,  101  f.,  112;  poem — by  Jacob 
Balde,  86,  95,  by  John  Owen,  86,  96, 
233,  by  Christian  Wernicke,  86,  95; 
emblem — by  Z.  Heyns,  86,  89,  by 
Kreihing,  86,  107,  by  Schoonoven, 
86,  103  f.;  chap,  title  in  Bucke's 
Book  of  Human  Character,  159;  cita- 
tion of  maxim,  45  f.,  80,  87,  91,  95, 
102  ff.,  118  f.,  140,  144  f.,  169,  204 

Odyssey,  28 

"Of  Self- Acquaintance,"  by  Martin 
Tupper,  176 

Old  Testament,  70 
Olympiodorus,  56,  66  ff. 
Omphalos,  6 

Optimus  modus,  19,  25  f.,  30 
Oraeus,  Henricus,  107  f. 
Origen,  70  f . 
Ovid,  Ars  Amatoria,  54 
Owen,  John,  "Nosce  te  Ipsum,"  96, 
233 


Palatine  Anthology,  24,  26 

Pantheism,  181,  187,  194  f. 

Partsch,  Griech.  Burgschaftsrecht,  the- 
ory regarding  kyyba,  irapa  d'Hrr),  14  f . 

Pascal,  Pensees,  37,  42,  94 

Patmore,  Coventry,  The  Rod,  the  Root, 
and  the  Flower,  183  f. 

Pausanias,  3  f.,  8 

Persius,  61,  140 

Peter  Cellensis,  letters  of,  26  f.,  218 

Petrarch,  Copious  Supply  of  Books,  28 

Philo  Judaeus,  61  f.,  69,  71 

Philostratus,  Apollonius  of  Tyana,  63, 
65 

Pibrac,  Quatrains,  196 

Pindar:  Frag.  on^Se?  ayav,  20,  26, 44; 
meaning  of  kyyvau  in,  13 ;  suggestion 
of  yv&9i  aeavrov,  50 

Pittacus,  8,  24,  30,  36 

Plato:  Alcibiades  I  (?),  51,  61,  63,  67; 
Charmides,  21,  55,  65;  echoes  of,  in 
Church  Fathers,  71,  73,  75;  Erastae 
(?),  56;  Hipparchus{7) ,  21;  "know 
one's  bent"  in,  54;  Menexenus,  21; 
Parmenides,  65;  Phaedrus,  56,  58, 
63;  Philebus,  21,  51;  Protagoras  8, 
n;  Republic,  56;  schol.  on Phaedr.,  3 

Plautus,  Stichus,  52 

Pliny,  N.H.  1,  9,  25,  108 

Plotinus,  65  f. 

Plutarch:  Ad.  Colot.,  62;  Banquet  of 
Seven  Wise  Men,  n  ff.,  24;  Cons, 
ad.  Apoll.,  23,  58;  De  disc.  adul.  et 
am.,  60;  De  inimic.  utilitat.  60;  De 
inimic,  utilitat,  60;  De  tranq.  an., 
54;  E  apud  Delphos,  1,  4  f.,  214;  Life 
of  Demosthenes,  53 

Pope,  Essay  on  Man,  121  ff.,  129 

Porphyry,  9,  56,  62  f.,  67 

Proclus,    66 

Pufendorf,  86,  105 

Pythian  Precepts,  2 

Rabelais,  Pantagruel,  86,  96,  214 
Raleigh,  Sir  Walter,  Instructions  to  His 
Son,  216 


INDEX 


269 


Randall,  John  Herman,  Spirit  of  the 

New  Philosophy,  194 
Richard    of    St.    Victor,    Benjamin 

Minor,  76  f.,  79 
Richardson,    William,    Philosophical 

Analysis  of  Shak.  Characters,  159, 

174  f.,  246 
Rinaldi,  Joseph,  De  Cognitione  Sui, 

118  f. 
Ripa,  Cesare,  "Prudence,"  108  f. 
Ritchie,  David,  Philosophical  Studies, 

206 
Robbins,     Reginald:  "Matthew     Ar- 
nold,"    195;     "Parnassus,"      257; 

"Paul,"  195,  255;  "Sophocles,"  46  f. 
Rolle,  Richard (?),  Prick  of  Conscience, 

81 
Romagnosi,    Che   Cosa   e   La   Mente 

Sana?,  144 
Roman  de  la  Rose,  81 
Roman  triumph,  words  of  slave  at,  57, 

80 
Ronsard,  86 
Roscher,  theories  regarding  location, 

number,  and  meaning  of  Delphic 

maxims,  2  ff.,  6,  14 
Rostrevor,  George,  Bergs  on  and  Future 

Philosophy,  183 
Rousseau,  Jean  Baptiste,  Allegories, 

117 
Ruskin:  Eagle's  Nest,  161  f.;  Ethics  of 

the  Dust,  172  f.;  Queen  of  the  Air, 

158,  172  f. 
Russell,  Bertrand,  criticism  of  Berg- 
son's  philosophy,  182  f. 

Sabuco,  Dona  Oliva,  de  Nantes  Bar- 
rera,  Coloquio  del  Conocimiento  de 
si  Mismo,  41,  86,  98,  103 

St.  Angela  de  Folgino,  77 

St.  Augustine,  70,  72 

St.  Bernard  of  Clairevaux:  in  Dante, 
77;  On  Consideration,  26  f.;  On 
Interior  of  the  House,  76 

St.  Catherine  of  Siena,  Dialogo,  Let- 
ters, 77  ff. 


Sambucus,  emblem  of,  34 

Savage,  Richard,  "The  Wanderer," 
126 

Schelling,  136,  139 

Schiller:  "Der  Schlussel,"  151;  Uber 
den  Zusammenhang  der  tier.  Natur 
des  Mensch.  mit  sein.  geist.,  151 

Schoonoven,  "Nosce  te  ipsum,"  103 

Schopenhauer:  influenced  by  Upani- 
shads,  181, 188;  fxr]8evayav— in  Criti- 
cism of  Kant's  Phil.,  40  f.;  yv&di 
aeavrdv  in  Counsels  and  Maxims, 
and  in  Psychologische  Bemerkungen, 
142;  in  Theoria  colorum  physiologi- 
ca,  136;  in  The  World  as  Will  and 
Idea,  142;  use  of  6776a,  irapad'aTrj, 
16  ff. 

Schultze,  theory  of,  regarding  meaning 
of  the  E,  6 

"Selbsterkenntniss,"  by  von  Logau,  95 

"Self- Acquaintance."  See  Baxter  and 
Tupper 

Self-examination,  113  f.,  129,  136, 
141,  145,  154,  157,  159,  175,  180 

Self-knowledge:  as  basis  of  inter- 
national understanding,  150, 213;  as 
beginning — of  social  virtue,  104,  of 
philosophy,  63,  of  wisdom,  104;  how 
partially  attained,  68  ff.,  105  ff., 
129  f.,  133,  146  ff.,  171  ff-,  198  ff., 
212  f.;  difficult,  67,  104,  119,  128, 
183;  impossible  of  complete  attain- 
ment, 67,  169  f.,  198;  includes — 
knowledge  of  the  subconscious,  181, 
184  f.,  211;  sense  of  civic  responsi- 
bility, 64,  105,  135,  sense  of  unity  of 

.  mankind,  212;  in  mystics'  stages  of 
approach  to  God,  74,  101,  139,  212; 
part  of  every  virtue,  56;  a  psychic 
process,  66,  74  f.,  139  f.;  in  relation 
to  self-love,  122,  124;  represented  in 
a  figure,  76  ff.,  102;  social  implica- 
tions of,  149,  151,  167;  specific  aids 
to  self-knowledge — adversity,  in  ff., 
174,  202  f.,  213,  associating  with 
others,  113,  129,  147,  172,  199,  213, 
dialectic,  68,  119,  drama  and  stage, 
68  f.,  no,  174,  202,  education,  133, 
177  f.,  208,  213,  friends,  68, 105, 133, 


270 


THE  DELPHIC  MAXIMS 


171,  knowledge  of  God,  69, 176,  206, 
knowledge  of  history,  no,  212, 
knowledge  of  society,  no,  133,  180, 
knowledge  of  universe,  69,  learning 
faults  by  observing  others  or  by 
being  told  them,  59  f.,  105, 109,  129, 
133,  171,  213,  love,  178  f.,  206  ff., 
213,  part  in  world's  activities,  146, 
149,  152,  philosophy,  63,  109,  119, 
133,  175,  purification  rite,  69,  read- 
ng,  69,  109  f.,  133,  reflection,  74  f., 
78,  113, 127, 131, 133, 145,  iS4,  i7S, 
180,  203  ff.,  study  of  Bible,  no,  113, 
study  of  science,  119,  209,  work, 
117,  213;  synonymous — with  con- 
version, 100,  249  f.,  with  self-con- 
sciousness, 66, 149;  as  title — of  book 
by  John  Mason,  128  f.,  of  chapter 
("On  the  Worth  and  Way  of  Self- 
Knowledge")  by  Ladd,  186,  205,  of 
essay  by  William  Stebbing,  198  f.,  of 
poem  by  Coleridge,  169,  of  poem  by 
Ebenezer  Smith,  Ayr,  250,  of  sermon 
by  Lawrence  Sterne,  128.  Symbolic 
mirror  of,  see  Mirror 

Seneca,  28,  54,  63,  68;  Cons.  adMarcia, 
58;  Be  Tranq.  An.,  25;  De  Vita  Beat., 
60;  Moral  Ep.,  25;  Thyestes,  56 

Se  noscere,  72 

Sequi  oleum,  2 

Seume,  Gereimte  Episteln,  40 

Seven  Sages,  2  f.,  8,  12  f.,  16,  19,  30, 
39  f.  See  also  Alciati,  Bias,  Cleobu- 
lus,  Pittacus,  Thales 

Shaftesbury:  Characteristics,  130;  Phil. 
Regimen,  241 

Shaw,  Preface  to  Over-ruled,  202 

Shelley:  "Adonais,"  161;  Defence  of. 
Poetry,  174;  "Julian  and  Maddalo," 
171  f.;   "Triumph  of  Life,"    164  f. 

Silesius,  Angelius,  75,  101 

Sill,  Edward  Rowland:  "Commence- 
ment Poem,"  179;  "Man  the 
Spirit,"  178 

Silvestre,  Gregorio,  "Conoscimiento 
de  si  Mismo,"  86,  97 

Socrates,  51,  54,  56,  58,  61,  65,  68,  89, 
104,  113,  119,  138,  145,  155,  186, 
205,  209,  213 


Solon,  8 

Song  of  Songs,  70,  74 

Sophocles,  20  f . ;  as  title  of  poem  by 
Reginald  Robbins,  46  f . 

South,  Robert,  87 

Sou  they,  The  Doctor,  157,  173 

Spectator,  The,  37,  42 

Speroni,  Sperone:  De  Vario  Argomento, 
46,  236;  Dialogo  dela  Istoria,  no; 
Discorso  Sopra  le  Sentenze  Ne  quid 
nimis  e  Nosce  te  ipsum,  45  f.,  91  f., 
114;  letter  of,  to  Sig.  Giacomo 
Critonio  Scozese  a  Maritova,  231  f.; 
On  Self -Love,  45 

Stebbing,  William,  on  "Self-knowl- 
edge," 198  f.,  256 

Steiner,  Rudolph,  Mystics  of  the  Re- 
naissance, 75 

Sterne,  Laurence,  sermon  on  "Self- 
knowledge,"  127  f. 

Stoics  and  Stoic  tenets,  41,  57,  59, 
63  f.,  69,  71,  73,  103  ff.,  120  f.,  133, 
135 

Sugimori,  Kojiro,  Principles  of  the 
Moral  Empire,  210 

Surety,  suretyship,  n  ff. 

Swift,  Jonathan,  sermon  "On  the  Dif- 
ficulty of  Knowing  Oneself,"  127  f. 

Tagore :  The  Home  and  the  World,  193 ; 
Thou  Shalt  Obey,  193  f. 

Tasso,  Torquato,  II  Porzio,  102 

Temple:  of  Apollo  at  Delos,  2;  of 
Apollo  at  Delphi,  iff.,  8  f.,  15,  20, 
68,  75,  87,  132,  144,  2ii,  213;  of 
Artemis  at  Ephesus,  2 

Tennyson:  "Oenone,"  168;  "The  Prin- 
cess," 249 

Terence,  Andria,  25,  28,  30,  43 

Tertullian,  70,  73 

Texada,  Gomez  de:  "II  Todo,"  102; 
Leon  Prodigioso,  220,  235 

Thales,  8,  30,  33,  36 

"That  Art  Thou,"  188,  190,  193 

Theo  Hera,  2  f . 

Theognis,  20 


INDEX 


271 


Theoretic  activity,  66  f.  Wagner,  Richard:  Beethoven,  256;  Er- 

Theories  regarding  origin  of  maxims,  .        kenne  dtch  selbst,  188,  197  1. 

8  f.  Walker,  Samuel,  128 

Thompson,  William,  "On  Mr.  Pope's  Weigel,  Valentin,  Tv&di  Heavrdv,  75 

Works,"  123  Wernicke,  Christian:  "Esistuns  Gut, 

Topffer,  Rodolphe,  La  Bibliotheque  de  ....,"  112  f.;  "Nosce  te  ipsum," 


mon  Oncle,  154 

Tupper:  "Of  Self -Acquaintance,"  176; 

quoted  from  other  poems,  248,  251 

Upanishads,  181,  188,  190  ff.,  253  f. 

Van  Veen,   Octavio,   Emblems  of  Q. 

Horatius  Flaccus,  34 
Varisco,    Bernardino,   Know    Thyself, 

186  f.,  253 
Varro:  Ne  quid  nimis  in,    25;    Theo 

Hera  in,  2  f . 
Ventura,  La  Filosofia  Cristiana,  145 
Very,  Jones,   "Know  Thyself,"   157, 

159 
Vico,  Inaugural  Oration,  118 
Villon,  Francois,  82 
Voiture,  letter  of,  to  Balzac,  89 
Voltaire,  Dialogues  d'Euhemere,  117 


95 

Whitehead,  William,  "A  Charge  to  the 
Poets,"  127 

Whittier,  "The  Word,"  176 

Wieland:  Aristippus,  5;  Musarion, 
120 

Wilde,  Oscar :  A  Woman  of  no  Impor- 
tance, 222;  De  Profundis,  198;  Soul 
of  Man  under  Socialism,  256 

Wolf,  Christian,  Ethica,  119 

Xenophon:  Cyropaedia,  50;  Hellenica, 
50;  Memorabilia,  53  f.,  56 

Young,  Edward:  The  Centaur  Not 
Fabulous,  132;  Conjectures  on  Origi- 
nal Composition,  130  f.;  Night 
Thoughts,  124;  "Resignation,"  124  f. 

Zaias,  Gabriel,  34 


[PRINTED  1 
IN   USA- J 


jCl 


University  of 
Connecticut 

Libraries 


£/S& 


any- 


