\^  \ 


Oscar  Wilde  in  i8g$. 


UNIFORM  EDITION 


THE  WRITINGS 


OF 


OSCAR       WILDE 


1  )e     Proftindis 

PROM  THE  ORIGINAL,  UNEXPURGATEI) 
GERMAN  EDITION 

Translated  by 

HENRY  ZICK,  Ph.   D. 


ILLUSTRATED 


London:     New  York: 
A.   R.   KELLER  &  CO.,  Inc. 
1907 


Copyright  1907,  by 
A.  R.  KELLER  &  CO.,    Inc. 


J.  F.  Tapley  Co. 

Printers  and   Binders 

New  York 


ILLUSTRATIONS. 


PAGE 


Oscar  Wilde  in  1895    ....    Frontispiece 

Reading  Gaol 32 

"One  who  watches  sheep  upon  a  moor"   .        .        .141 


De  Profundis. 

Translated  from  the  German 
By  Henry  Zick,  Ph.D. 


Preface  to  De  Profundis. 


PREFACE. 

On  May  25,  1895,  Oscar  Wilde  was  sentenced 
to  two  years'  imprisonment.  He  had  brought  about 
his  own  downfall  by  bringing  a  suit  for  libel 
against  the  Marquis  of  Queensbery,  who  had 
charged  him  with  evil  practices,  with  the  result 
that  during  the  progress  of  the  case,  Wilde,  the 
prosecutor,  became  the  defendant.  The  marquis 
was  acquitted  and  the  poet  was  put  under  arrest. 
At  the  first  trial  the  jury  disagreed  and  Wilde  was 
allowed  to  furnish  bail  and  be  at  liberty,  but  before 
a  second  jury  pronounced  its  sentence,  he  had  been 
condemned  by  the  world.  When  he  was  released 
from  custody,  after  the  first  trial,  two  hotels  closed 
their  doors  against  him;  one  because  a  mob  was 
threatening  to  storm  the  house.  Not  since  the 
scandal  following  Lord  Byron's  marriage,  had 
London  witnessed  such  an  outbreak  of  popular 
wrath.  Although  he  would  have  conferred  a  favour 
upon  the  authorities  by  leaving  the  country,  Wilde 
5 


6      THE  WHITINGS  OF  OSCAK  WILDE. 

refused  to  forfeit  his  bail,  on  the  ground  that  such 
conduct  would  be  contrary  to  the  principles  of  a 
gentleman.  With  head  erect,  without  uttering  a 
word  of  reproach  to  his  enemies,  he  remained  to 
meet  the  nameless  misfortune  which  followed. 

More  keenly  than  the  cruel  punishment  inflicted 
upon  him  by  the  authorities,  the  poet  felt  the  cruel 
vindictiveness  of  his  countrymen,  but  English  cant 
had  been  aroused  and  demanded  its  victim.  High 
and  low  turned  against  him  in  common  hatred.  It 
seemed  as  if  all  London  had  risen  in  condemnation. 
When  the  news  of  his  conviction  reached  the  crowd 
gathered  in  front  of  the  courthouse,  the  mob 
danced  with  joy.  The  newspapers  engaged  in  an  or- 
ganised crusade  against  him,  and  did  their  utmost 
to  fan  the  wrath  of  the  Philistines.  Wilde's  pub- 
lishers deemed  it  wise  to  publicly  renounce  their 
rights;  the  poet's  works  were  confiscated  by  the 
police  and  the  theatrical  managers  dared  no  longer 
produce  his  plays.  The  name  of  the  condemned 
writer  was  struck  from  the  list  of  the  living. 

In  a  moment  all  his  resources  became  exhausted. 
His  creditors  pounced  upon  his  effects  and  poverty 
stared  him  in  the  face,  for  he  had  never  practised 
economy  in  anything.  He  could  not  even  pay  the 
costs  of  his  defence,  and  during  his  imprisonment 


PEEFACE.  7 

he  was  compelled  to  appear  twice  in  the  Court  of 
Bankruptcy. 

Wilde  himself  has  told  us  the  story  of  the  two 
years  which  he  spent  in  prison,  first  in  Wands- 
worth, and  then  in  Heading,  the  heautiful  little  city 
on  the  Thames,  made  famous  by  his  celebrated 
prison  ballad.  De  Profundis  was  the  only  work 
which  Wilde  wrote  while  in  prison ;  he  himself  calls 
it,  in  the  third  of  the  appended  letters,  "epistola 
in  carcere  et  vineulis."  That  it  was  written  by  one 
in  abject  bondage,  who  suffered  unspeakable  agony 
in  the  loneliness  of  his  cell  and  who,  more  than 
once,  was  on  the  verge  of  madness,  is  apparent  in 
every  line  of  this  immortal  prose  poem.  His  term 
of  imprisonment  had  nearly  expired  when  he  re- 
solved to  depict  the  Oscar  Wilde  of  the  past,  the 
resplendent  "King  of  Life"  in  all  his  glory,  in 
contrast  with  the  Wilde  of  the  prison  days,  purified 
by  suffering  and  looking  forward  to  the  Vita 
Nuova. 

Some  idea  of  the  mediaeval  barbarism  still  pre- 
vailing in  the  prisons  of  modern,  civilised  England 
may  be  obtained  by  reading  Sherard's  biography  of 
Wilde,  which  states  that  the  poet  was  confined  in 
a  kind  of  rabbit-cage,  with  a  roof  of  wire  netting. 
Sentenced  to  hard  labour,  he  was  forced  to  sew  bags 


8      THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

and  pull  oakum,  from  morning  until  night,  often 
with  blood  oozing  from  his  finger-nails.  With 
these  hands,  which  had  long  been  denied  the  use 
of  the  pen,  in  the  dim  twilight  of  his  prison  cell, 
he  wrote  his  heartrending  confessions. 

To  Robert  Ross,  the  literary  executor  of  Oscar 
Wilde,  who,  at  my  urgent  request,  consented  to 
publish  this  autobiographical  document  of  his 
friend,  we  owe  our  heartiest  thanks.  When  the 
work  of  publishing  it  was  confided  to  me,  an  Eng- 
lish edition  had  not  yet  been  planned.  The  uncer- 
tain, confused  legal  situation,  however,  made  such 
a  publication  necessary.  This  will  not  rob  the  Ger- 
man edition  of  its  authentic  value,  for  we  were  able 
to  bring  out  our  work  at  an  earlier  date  and  in  a 
more  complete  form.  Besides,  the  English  edition 
is  incomplete,  because  expurgated,  and  does  not 
contain  the  four  letters  which  furnish  an  invalu- 
able commentary  on  Wilde's  remarkable  autobi- 
ography. 

Max  Meyerfeld. 

January,  1905. 


De  Profundis. 


; 


DE  PEOFUNDIS. 

....  They  wish  to  place  me  between  Gilles 
de  Eetz  and  the  Marquis  de  Sade!  Let  them  do 
so !  I  will  not  complain.  One  of  the  many  lessons 
which  the  prison  teaches  us  is  this:  Things  are 
what  they  are  and  will  remain  unchanged  through 
all  eternity.  And  I  do  not  doubt  for  one  moment 
that  the  mediaeval  libertine  and  the  author  of 
Justine  will  be  better  company  than  Sandford  and 
Merton,  our  juvenile  publishers.     .    .    . 

It  all  happened  in  the  first  half  of  November, 
two  years  ago.  The  broad  stream  of  life  separates 
me  from  a  period  which  now  lies  in  the  dim  past. 
One  who  enjoys  his  freedom  can  hardly  compre- 
hend such  an  interval — to  him  life  is  full  of 
meaning.  But  I — I  feel  as  if  it  all  happened  yes- 
terday, yea,  this  very  day.  The  moments  of  suffer- 
ing are  immeasurably  long.  They  cannot  be 
divided  into  seasons.  We  can  only  note  their  moods 
and  register  their  regular  recurrence.  To  the  suf- 
ferer, time  itself  seems  to  stand  still — to  revolve 


10    THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAE  WILDE. 

about  a  common  centre  of  agony.  Alas,  for  the 
paralysing  immobility  of  a  life  which  in  every  de- 
tail is  governed  by  rules  and  regulations !  We  eat 
and  drink,  we  are  led  out  for  an  airing,  lie  down 
and  pray— or,  rather,  kneel  in  prayer — all  in 
obedience  to  the  rigid  rules  of  an  iron  law.  This 
immobility,  this  sameness,  which  makes  every  day, 
in  its  terror,  resemble  its  brother  in  every  minute 
detail,  seems  to  affect  the  forces  of  Nature,  whose 
very  essence  is  constant  change.  Here,  we  know 
nothing,  can  know  nothing,  of  sowing  or  harvest- 
ing; nothing  of  the  reapers  cutting  the  wheat,  of 
the  vintagers  gathering  the  purple  grapes;  of  the 
grass  in  the  garden,  over  which  the  falling  blos- 
soms spread  their  snow-white  garment  or  which  is 
strewn  with  ripened  fruit. 

For  us  there  is  but  one  season,  the  season  of 
grief  and  sorrow.  Even  of  sun  and  moon  they 
have  robbed  us.  In  the  outer  world  the  light  of 
day  may  shine  in  blue  or  golden  hues,  but  the  light 
which  steals  its  way  to  us  through  the  opaque, 
barred  window,  under  which  we  sit,  is  grey  and 
dim.  Twilight  reigns  forever  in  our  cells,  mid- 
night in  our  hearts.  And  even  in-  the  realm  of 
thought,  as  in  the  realm  of  time,  motion  has  been 
changed  into  inertia.    What  I  had  forgotten  long 


DE  PKOFUNDIS.  11 

ago  or  could  easily  forget  now,  fills  my  mind  to- 
day and  will  occupy  it  to-morrow.  If  you  con- 
sider this  you  will  understand  why  I  am  writing, 
why  I  write  as  I  do  and  why  I  cannot  write  other- 
wise. 

A  week  later,  and  I  am  brought  here.  Three 
months  pass  by  and  my  mother  dies.  You  know — 
no  one  knows  it  better — how  much  I  loved  her — 
how  much  I  revered  her.  Her  death  so  over- 
whelmed me  that  I — once  the  master  of  language — 
could  not  find  words  to  express  my  sorrow  and  my 
shame — but  even  in  the  zenith  of  my  power  I  could 
never  have  given  appropriate  expression  to  such 
sacred  grief  or  voiced  a  melody  to  accompany  my 
unutterable  woe.  From  my  mother  and  father  I 
had  inherited  a  name  which  had  won  fame  and 
honour,  not  only  in  literature,  art,  archaeology  and 
the  sciences,  but  also  in  the  history  of  my  country. 
I  dishonoured  that  name  for  all  time  to  come.  I 
so  debased  it  that  it  became  a  hideous  by-word  in 
the  mouths  of  hideous  men.  I  dragged  it  in  the 
very  dust.  To  my  enemies  it  became  a  synonym 
for  madness.  What  I  had  suffered  and  still  suffer, 
no  pen  can  describe,  no  book  record.  My  wife,  ever 
kind  and  considerate,  not  wishing  that  I  should 
learn  the  news  from  the  lips  of  indifferent  stran- 


12     THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

gers,  in  spite  of  illness,  came  all  the  way  from 
Genoa  to  England  to  break  to  me  the  news  of  my 
irretrievable,  my  immeasurable  loss.  All  who  still 
remembered  me  sent  tokens  of  their  sympathy. 
Even  strangers,  when  they  heard  what  new  calam- 
ity had  befallen  me  in  my  misery,  felt  prompted 
to  express  their  condolence.    .    .    . 

Again,  three  months  have  passed.  The  bulletin 
hanging  outside  the  door  of  my  cell,  which 
records  my  daily  conduct  and  the  amount  of  work 
I  accomplish,  and  upon  which  my  sentence  is  in- 
scribed— tells  me  it  is  May.    .    .    . 

Happiness  and  success  are  of  rough  texture  and 
vulgar  material — the  most  delicate  fabric  in  all 
creation  is  suffering.  There  is  nothing,  in  the 
world  of  the  mind,  which  is  equal  to  the  terrible, 
but  exceedingly  fine  pulsations  of  suffering.  The 
infinitely  thin  gold-leaf,  which  responds  to  forces 
that  may  not  be  recognised  by  our  senses,  is  crude 
in  comparison  with  the  sensitiveness  of  suffering- 
Suffering  is  like  a  wound  that  bleeds  when  touched 
by  other  than  a  loving  hand,  and  even  then  must 
bleed,  though  not  in  pain.   , , 

Where  there  is  suffering  there  is  sacred  ground. 
Some  day  humanity  will  understand  what  this 
means.    Before  one  does  understand  it,  one  knows 


DE  PEOFUXDIS.  13 

nothing  of  life.  Bobbie,  and  beings  like  him,  pos- 
sess that  understanding.  When  I  was  led,  between 
two  policemen,  from  my  prison  to  the  Bankruptcy 
Court,  Eobbie  waited  in  the  long  corridor  to  see 
me  go  by.  When  I  passed  him,  with  lowered  head 
and  manacled  hands,  he  quietly  but  earnestly  re- 
moved his  hat  in  greeting.  The  surging,  noisy 
crowd  stood  in  silence,  touched  by  this  loving  act  of 
devotion.  Men  have  entered  the  kingdom  of 
heaven  for  lesser  deeds.  Imbued  with  the  same 
spirit,  the  saints  knelt  down  to  wash  the  feet  of  the 
poor ;  filled  with  the  same  love,  they  stooped  to  kiss 
the  leper's  cheek.  To  this  moment  I  do  not  know 
whether  he  noticed  that  I  was  aware  of  his  devo- 
tion. The  remembrance  of  it  I  cherish  like  a 
treasure  in  my  heart;  mere  words  do  not  and  can- 
not express  my  gratitude.  In  my  heart  the  act  is 
booked  as  a  secret  debt  which,  I  am  glad  to  say,  I 
shall  never  be  able  to  repay.  There  it  lies  em- 
balmed and  its  loveliness  is  preserved  by  the  myrrhs 
and  nards  of  many  tears.  When  all  wisdom  had 
proved  worthless  to  me,  all  philosophy  fruitless  and 
barren,  when  the  words  of  those  who  tried  to  con- 
sole me  tasted  like  dust  and  ashes  in  my  mouth, 
the  remembrance  of  that  simple,  silent  act  of  love 
opened  all  the  springs  of  sympathy  in  my  heart, 


14    THE  WEITINGS  OF  OSCAE  WILDE. 

changed  the  desert  places  into  gardens  of  roses, 
lifted  me  out  of  the  embitterment  of  solitude  and 
brought  me  into  harmony  with'  the  great,  "wounded, 
broken  heart  of  humanity.  Whoever  is  capable  of 
realising  not  only  how  beautiful  Eobbie's  action 
was,  but  why  it  meant  so  much  to  me  and  always 
will  mean  so  much,  will  also  understand  how  and 
in  what  frame  of  mind  he  should  approach  me.  .  .  . 
The  first  offering  which  a  young  author  makes 
to  the  world  in  the  springtime  of  life  should  be  as 
unsullied  as  a  blossom  in  May,  as  pure  as  the  haw- 
thorn buds  on  the  meadows  of  Oxford  or  the  prim- 
roses in  the  fields  of  Cumner.  Such  a  work  should 
not  be  handicapped  by  a  terrible,  revolting  tragedy 
or  by  overwhelming  abuse.  To  lend  my  name  to 
herald  such  a  work  would  have  been  contrary  to 
the  principles  of  art;  it  would  have  placed  it  in  a 
false  milieu,  and  the  milieu  is  of  paramount  im- 
portance in  art.  Complexity  and  relativity  are  the 
distinguishing  features  of  modern  life,  and  form 
its  component  parts.  To  reproduce  the  former, 
we  need  the  milieu,  with  its  delicate  shadings,  its 
suggestiveness,  its  strange  perspective ;  to  reproduce 
the  latter,  we  require  a  broad  background.  For 
this  reason,  more  than  music,  painting  or  sculpture, 


\ 


DE  PKOFUNDIS.  15 

literature  is,  was  and  ever  will  be  the  art  par  ex- 
cellence. 

Every  three  months  I  receive  from  Bobbie  a 
resume  of  the  literary  news  of  the  day.  Nothing 
more  delightful  than  his  letters  can  hardly  be  im- 
agined, nothing  more  witty,  cleverly  conceived  and 
written.  One  can  hardly  call  them  letters;  they 
are  rather  confidential  chats;  they  possess  all  the 
excellence  of  French  causeries.  To  pay  me  a  com- 
pliment in  his  delicate  manner,  he  now  appeals  to 
my  sense  of  humour,  now  to  my  inborn  love  of 
beauty  and  refinement,  and  reminds  me  in  a  hun- 
dred ways  that  I  was  once  looked  upon  as  the 
arbiter  elegantiarum,  as  an  authority  in  artistic 
circles,  yes,  by  many,  as  the  very  highest  authority. 
Eobbie  thus  shows  that  he  not  only  possesses  the 
finer  instincts  of  friendship  but  literary  tact  as 
well.  His  letters  are,  to  me,  the  small  links  be- 
tween my  present  world  and  the  glorious,  unreal 
world  of  art  in  which  I  once  ruled  as  a  king,  and 
would  still  rule  had  I  not  allowed  myself  to  be  en- 
ticed into  the  under-world  of  passion,  in  which 
our  appetites  are  as  degraded  as  our  desires  are  un- 
satisfied. Though  I  am,  indeed,  grateful  to  receive 
any  news  at  all,  one  can  easily  understand,  or  at 
least  readily  imagine,  that  I  would  prefer  to  learn 


16    THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAE  WILDE. 

something  more  about  .  .  .  than  to  be  in- 
formed that  Alfred  Austin  was  about  to  publish  a 
volume  of  poems,  that  ...  is  writing  critical 
reviews  for  the  Daily  Chronicle,  or  that  Mrs.  Mey- 
nell  has  been  proclaimed  the  new  Sibylla  of  liter- 
ary style  by  one  who  cannot  utter  a  panegyric  with- 
out stammering.    .    .    . 

Other  deplorable  creatures,  like  me,  who  are  im- 
prisoned and  denied  even  a  glimpse  of  the  beauty 
of  this  world,  do  not  live  in  constant  dread  of 
treacherous  traps  and  poisoned  arrows.  They  are 
able  to  conceal  themselves  in  the  gloom  of  their 
cells  as  in  a  holy  sanctuary;  the  world  has  been 
satisfied  and  pursues  the  even  tenor  of  its  way; 
they  are  left  alone  and  undisturbed.  But  I  am 
not  so  fortunate!  One  misery  after  another  has 
found  its  way  to  my  hiding  place  and  knocked  at 
my  prison  door.  And  this  door,  closed,  or  as  good 
as  closed,  to  my  friends,  opens  wide  to  my  ene- 
mies. On  the  two  occasions  that  I  was  obliged  to 
appear  in  the  Court  of  Bankruptcy,  and  again 
when  I  was  publicly  conveyed  from  one  prison  to 
another,  I  was  exposed  to  the  insolent  gaze  and 
the  abusive  mockery  of  the  mob.  The  tidings  of 
my  mother's  death  found  me  weary  and  alone; 
barred  from  all  which  might  have  soothed  my  ach- 


DE  PKOFUNDIS.  17 

ing  heart.  Thus  I  am  compelled  to  bear  the 
double  anguish  of  misery  and  conscience  which  the 
memory  of  my  mother  arouses  and  ever  will  arouse. 

Hardly  is  this  wound  closed — it  will  never  really 
heal — when  I  receive  harsh,  bitter,  sarcastic  letters 
from  my  wife's  lawyers.  Poverty  stares  me  in  the 
face  and  I  am  actually  blamed  for  being  poor. 
That  might  easily  be  borne.  I  could  even  endure 
worse  misfortune.  Then  my  two  children  are  taken 
from  me  by  the  tyranny  of  the  law.  The  infinite 
pain,  nameless  sorrow  and  boundless  grief,  which 
this  entails,  will  never  leave  me.  The  thought  that 
the  law  can  decree  that  I  am  not  a  fit  person  to 
associate  with  my  own  children  fills  me  with 
terror.  The  feeling  that  my  imprisonment  is  a 
degradation  is  mild  compared  with  the  knowledge 
that  I  am  a  social  outcast. 

How  I  envy  my  fellow-prisoners  who,  like  me, 
pace  monotonously  up  and  down  the  prison  yard. 
Their  children — of  this  I  am  sure — are  anxiously 
awaiting  their  return  home,  to  smother  them  with 
demonstrations  of  love.  The  poor  are  wiser  than 
we  are;  they  are  more  merciful,  more  kindly;  they 
feel  more  deeply  than  we  do.  In  their  eyes,  im- 
prisonment is  a  tragic  event  in  their  lives,  a  mis- 
fortune, an  unfortunate  accident,  something  which 


18    THE  WKITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

arouses  the  pity  and  sympathy  of  their  fellow- 
men.  In  their  language,  one  who  is  condemned  to 
prison  is  called  "unfortunate";  he  has  met  with 
"misfortune/'  is  the  phrase  they  use ;  this  very  ex- 
pression embodies  the  highest  wisdom  of  love.  It 
is  different  with  people  of  our  own  station,  in  our 
own  walk  of  life.  If  one  of  us  is  imprisoned,  he 
becomes  a  pariah !  I,  and  such  as  I,  have  hardly 
a  claim  to  air  and  sunshine.  Our  mere  presence 
sullies  the  pleasure  of  others.  When  we  emerge 
from  the  prison  night,  we  are  unwelcome  guests 
wherever  we  appear.  We  are  considered  unworthy 
to  walk  in  the  light  of  the  sun  or  moon.  We 
are  robbed  of  our  children;  the  tender  ties  of  pa- 
ternal and  filial  love,  which  join  us,  more  than 
others,  to  humanity,  are  broken.  We  are  con- 
demned to  everlasting  loneliness.  We  are  denied 
the  one  thing  which  might  heal  our  wounds,  revive 
our  spirits,  pour  balm  into  our  bleeding  hearts  and 
bring  peace  to  our  grief-harrowed  souls.    .    .    . 

I  confidently  believe  that  neither 
nor  .  .  .  even  if  they  were  multiplied  a  thou- 
sand-fold, could  have  ruined  a  man  like  me.  I 
brought  about  my  own  downfall.  No  one,  be  he 
high  or  low,  need  be  ruined  by  any  other  hand 
than  his  own.     Readily  as  I  confess  this,  there 


DE  PROFUNDIS.  19 

are  many  who  will,  at  this  time  at  least,  receive  the 
confession  sceptically.  And  although  I  thus  merci- 
lessly accuse  myself,  bear  in  mind  that  I  do  so 
without  offering  any  excuse.  Terrible  as  is  the 
punishment  inflicted  upon  me  by  the  world,  more 
terrible  is  the  ruin  I  have  brought  upon  myself. 

I  was  intimately  connected  with  the  art  and 
civilisation  of  the  times.  I  may  even  claim  that  I 
typified  modern  culture.  In  the  dawn  of  man- 
hood I  recognised  my  position,  appreciated  its  sig- 
nificance and  compelled  the  recognition  of  my 
contemporaries.  Very  few  persons,  during  their 
lifetime  at  least,  ever  attained  such  a  distinguished 
and  widely  recognised  place.  This  is  usually  de- 
termined by  historians  and  critics — if  it  is  ever 
determined  at  all — long  after  the  man  and  his 
time  are  a  part  of  the  dim  and  distant  past.  My 
case  was  different.  Byron  was  the  type  and  symbol 
of  his  age,  of  its  passions  and  its  pessimism.  My 
relations  were  on  a  higher  level;  they  were  based 
on  a  desire  for  nobler,  more  permanent  values; 
they  touched  more  weighty  questions  of  life  and 
aimed  at  a  higher  goal. 

The  gods  had  showered  on  me  their  most 
precious  gifts.  My  talent  bordered  on  genius.  I 
enjoyed  an  honoured  name,  an  eminent  social  posi- 


20     THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAE  WILDE. 

tion;  I  possessed  fame,  glory  and  intellectual  dar- 
ing ;  I  made  of  art  a  philosophy  and  of  philosophy 
an  art;  I  taught  men  to  think  on  new  lines,  for  I 
had  presented  the  world  in  a  new  light  and  in  new 
colours.  I  astonished  every  one  by  what  I  said  and 
what  I  did.  I  took  the  drama — the  most  objective 
of  all  the  forms  of  art — and  made  of  it  something 
as  distinctly  subjective  as  a  lyric  poem  or  a  sonnet ; 
at  the  same  time  I  enlarged  its  field  and  enriched 
its  world  of  characters.  The  drama,  the  novel, 
poetry,  poetic  prose,  the  polished  dialogue  of  real 
or  imaginary  life — all — everything  I  touched,  I 
clothed  in  new  garments  of  beauty.  I  demon- 
strated the  relativity  of  truth  itself,  gave  to  what 
we  call  true  and  what  we  name  false  their  proper 
place  and  proved  that  the  true  and  the  false  are 
only  different  attitudes  of  the  human  intellect.  I 
proved  that  art  was  the  highest  reality,  and  that 
life  was  only  a  branch  of  art.  I  stimulated  and 
fructified  the  imaginative  power  of  my  century,  and 
myths  and  legends  crystallised  about  my  person.  I 
expressed  and  condensed  the  philosophical  systems 
into  one  phrase,  all  being  into  one  epigram. 

Then  came  the  turning-point.  I  allowed  myself 
to  become  enslaved  by  senseless  sensuality  and  ease. 
I  amused  myself  with  being  a  flaneur,  a  dandy  and 


DE  PEOFUNDIS.  21 

a  leader  of  fashion.  I  surrounded  myself  with 
parasites  and  obsequious  flatterers.  I  wasted  my 
genius  and  found  a  strange  pleasure  in  squander- 
ing the  gift  of  eternal  youth.  I  had  become  tired 
of  dwelling  on  the  heights — and  descended  by  my 
own  will  into  the  depths — I  eagerly  sought  new 
sensations  and  strange  experiences.  In  the  realm 
of  thought  I  delighted  in  being  paradoxical;  in 
the  realm  of  passion  I  became  attracted  by  that 
which  is  perverse.  Desire  became  a  disease,  a 
frenzy,  or  both.  I  had  no  regard  for  the  lives  of 
others.  I  satisfied  my  desires  whenever  it  suited 
me  and  passed  on.  I  forgot  that  every  act,  even 
the  most  insignificant  act,  of  daily  life,  in  some 
degree,  makes  or  unmakes  the  character ;  that  every 
occurrence  which  transpires  in  the  seclusion  of  the 
chamber  will  some  day  be  proclaimed  from  the 
housetops.  I  lost  control  over  myself.  I  was  no 
longer  at  the  helm,  and  knew  it  not.  I  had  become 
a  slave  to  pleasure — and  hideous  degradation  was 
the  result.  One  thing  only  is  left  to  me — complete 
humility. 

I  have  been  in  prison  now  for  two  years.  At 
times,  wild  despair  has  seized  me;  I  gave  way  to 
bitter  lamentations  until  my  very  appearance  in- 
spired pity;  I  surrendered  myself  to  terrible,  im- 


22    THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

potent  rage;  bitterness  and  contempt  filled  my 
heart;  my  soul  shrieked  with  anguish;  but  my 
misery  found  no  voice,  my  pain  no  expression.  I 
have  experienced  all  possible  degrees  of  suffering. 
I  now  realise  what  Wordsworth  meant  when  he 
wrote : 

"Suffering  is  permanent,  obscure  and  dark,  and 
has  the  nature  of  infinity." 

At  times  the  thought  that  my  suffering  was 
to  be  endless  became  unbearable,  because  it  was 
without  meaning,  without  significance.  But  now 
something  within  myself  tells  me  that  nothing  in 
the  world  is  without  significance — least  of  all  suf- 
fering. This  something,  hidden  deep  within  me 
like  a  treasure  in  a  field — is  humility.  It  is  the 
last  and  the  best  virtue  which  my  nature  has  de- 
veloped; it  is  the  goal  toward  which  I  have  been 
unconsciously  striving,  or,  rather,  it  is  the  starting- 
point  of  a  new  development.  It  sprang  from  my 
inmost  self,  therefore  I  know  that  it  has  appeared 
at  the  right  time.  It  could  not,  in  fact,  have  been 
evolved  before,  nor  later.  If  any  one  had  sug- 
gested such  a  virtue,  I  would  have  scoffed  at  the 
idea.    I  have  found  it  myself,  spontaneously,  and 


DE  PROFUNDIS.  23 

therefore  I  shall  keep  it  as  my  very  own.  I  cannot 
do  otherwise.  It  is  the  germination,  the  starting- 
point  of  a  new  life  for  me,  of  a  Vita  Nuova.  Of 
all  virtues  it  is  the  most  wonderful.  "We  cannot  ac- 
quire and  possess  it  unless  we  renounce  everything 
which  we  call  our  own.  Only  when  we  have  lost 
everything  do  we  realise  that  we  possess  it. 

Now  that  I  am  firmly  convinced  that  I  do  pos- 
sess it,  I  see  plainly  and  clearly  what  I  have  to  do, 
what  I  must  do  without  fail.  But  when  I  say 
"must,"  I  hardly  need  to  explain  that  I  do  not 
allude  to  any  outward  law  or  command.  I  am, 
at  present,  more  of  an  individualist  than  ever.  I 
deny  the  existence  of  such  laws  or  rather  their 
right  to  exist.  Everything  seems  to  me  to  be 
worthless  and  without  intrinsic  value,  except  what 
we  evolve  out  of  our  own  consciousness.  I  am  in 
quest  of  a  new  form  of  self-realisation.  This  is 
my  sole  occupation.  The  first  step  I  shall  have  to 
take  is  to  free  myself  from  every  vestige  of  bitter- 
ness against  the  world. 

I  am  without  means,  without  house  or  home. 
But  that  is  not  the  worst  suffering  one  must  en- 
dure in  this  world.  I  say  this  in  all  earnestness  and 
sincerity:  I  shall  leave  my  prison  with  no  enmity 
against  the  world  and  willingly  go  from  door  to 


24    THE  WEITINGS  OF  OSCAK  WILDE. 

door  begging  for  bread.  If  the  houses  of  the  rich 
be  closed  against  me,  I  know  that  the  poor  will 
receive  me  with  open  hands.  Those  who  possess 
much  are  often  greedy  and  hard-hearted.  The 
poor  are  always  ready  to  share  what  little  they  have. 
It  would  even  be  a  matter  of  indifference  to  me 
were  I  forced  to  sleep,  in  summer,  on  the  cool  grass, 
or,  in  winter,  to  take  refuge  in  a  warm  hay-loft  or 
under  the  projecting  roof  of  a  stable — if  only  love 
\  were  in  my  heart.  The  dross  and  tinsel  of  life  now 
seem  of  no  value  to  me  whatever.  From  this,  one 
may  realise  how  far  I  have  advanced  on  the  road  to 
perfect  individualism,  or,  rather,  how  far  I  shall 
progress  in  time,  for  the  road  is  long  and  beset 
with  thorns.  I  know,  of  course,  that  I  shall  not 
be  compelled  to  beg  for  alms  on  the  high-road,  and 
if  I  ever  lie  in  the  cool  grass  at  night  it  will  be  to 
write  sonnets  to  the  moon. 

When  the  prison  door  opens,  Eobbie  will  be 
waiting  for  me  outside,  in  front  of  the  big  gate 
with  the  iron  posts,  and  his  presence  will  symbolise 
not  only  his  own  love  but  that  of  many  others  be- 
sides him.  I  am,  I  believe,  to  realise  enough  to 
assure  my  living  for  at  least  a  year  and  a  half,  and 
if  I  am  unable  to  write  any  beautiful  books  I  shall 
be  at  leisure  to  read  them.    But  if  it  were  differ- 


DE  PKOFUNDIS.  25 

ent;  had  I  not  a  single  friend  left  in  the  world; 
were  there  not  one  on  whose  house  or  hospitality 
I  might  count,  and  should  I  be  forced  to  carry  the 
pouch  and  wear  the  ragged  cloak  of  poverty — as 
long  as  my  soul  was  free  of  feelings  of  revenge, 
cruelty  and  contempt,  I  still  would  face  life  with 
greater  peace  of  mind  and  confidence  than  if  my 
body  were  bedecked  with  purple  and  fine  linen  and 
my  heart  were  filled  with  hatred.  I  shall  meet  with 
no  difficulties.  He  who  truly  desires  love  will  find 
it  waiting  for  him. 

I  need  hardly  say  that  my  task  does  not  end 
here;  otherwise  it  would  be  comparatively  easy. 
More  difficult  problems  will  have  to  be  solved; 
steeper  heights  must  be  climbed;  deeper  valleys 
visited.  The  strength  to  accomplish  all  this  I 
must  find  within  myself.  Neither  religion,  moral- 
ity, nor  reason  can  aid  me.  Morality  will  be  of  no 
help  to  me.  I  am  an  antinomist,  an  opponent  of 
all  general  laws.  I  am  one  of  those  who  believe  in 
privileges  and  exceptions,  but  not  in  rules.  I  be- 
lieve that  wrong  is  not  measured  by  acts — by  what 
we  do — but  by  the  evil  that  is  within  us.  This 
truth  is  paramount.  Eeligion  will  be  of  no  help 
to  me.  Others  may  believe  in  things  invisible;  I 
believe  in  what  I  can  touch,  what  I  can  see.    My 


26    THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAE  WILDE. 

gods  inhabit  temples  built  by  the  hand  of  man ;  my 
gospel — the  gospel  of  glad  tidings — finds  its  ful- 
filment in  the  realm  of  actuality,  of  experience — 
perhaps  more  completely  than  is  desirable;  for 
like  many  individuals  who  seek  after  heaven  on 
earth,  I  have  found  here  both  the  beauty  and  bliss 
of  heaven  and  the  hideousness  and  horrors  of  hell. 
Whenever  I  reflect  upon  religious  matters  I  have 
a  desire  to  found  an  order  for  those  who  believe  in 
no  religion  at  all.  I  would  call  it  the  "Brotherhood 
of  Unbelievers."  I  would  erect  an  altar,  upon 
which  stood  unlighted  candles,  unconsecrated 
bread,  and  an  empty  chalice,  attended  by  a  priest  in 
whose  heart  peace  had  no  resting-place.  Every  true 
belief  should  be  cast  in  the  mould  of  religion  and 
the  teachings  of  the  agnostics  should  be  ritualised 
like  the  creed  of  the  church.  Agnosticism  has  had 
its  martyrs ;  it  should  also  have  its  saints,  and  they 
should  send  prayers  of  thanks  to  God  for  keeping 
Himself  concealed  from  the  eyes  of  men.  But 
whether  I  become  a  believer  or  remain"  an  agnostic, 
my  belief  or  disbelief  must  derive  its  source  from 
within,  not  from  without.  I,  myself,  must  create 
its  symbols.  The  transcendental  is  that  which 
produces  its  own  form.  I  will  never  discover  its 
secret,  if  I  do  not  find  it  in  my  own  heart ;  if  I  do 


DE  PKOFTJNDIS.  27 

not  possess  it  already  I  shall  never  be  able  to  ac- 
quire it. 

Reason,  too,  will  be  of  no  help  to  me.  It  tells 
me  that  the  laws,  whose  victim  I  have  become,  are 
cruel  and  unjust;  that  the  social  system  under 
which  I  have  been  suffering  is  also  cruel  and  un- 
just. Yet  I  must  find  a  place  somewhere  for  these 
arbiters  of  my  destiny,  the  laws  and  the  social  sys- 
tem, that  they  may  appear  just  and  kind.  In  art, 
we  busy  ourselves  only  with  that  which  to  us  is  of 
special  interest  at  a  special  time;  the  same  holds 
good  in  ethics,  in  the  development  of  character. 
All  I  have  experienced  I  must  turn  to  my  good. 
My  bed  of  boards,  the  coarse  food,  the  oakum  that 
I  pulled  until  my  fingers  became  insensible,  the 
manual  labour  of  cleaning  which  begins  and  ends 
each  day,  the  harsh  commands  which  custom  seems 
to  prescribe,  the  hideous  garb  which  brings  our 
misery  into  grotesque  relief,  the  silence,  the  soli- 
tude, the  infamy — all  these  experiences  I  shall  en- 
deavour to  spiritualise.  There  is  not  a  single  form 
of  physical  degradation  which  I  shall  not  try  to  ex- 
alt to  a  spiritual  plane.  I  hope  that  I  may  some 
day  be  able  to  say  honestly  and  sincerely  that  my 
life  had  two  turning  points — the  first  when  my 
father  sent  me  to  Oxford,  the  second  when  society 


28    THE  WKITINGS  OF  OSCAK  WILDE. 

sent  me  to  jail.  I  do  not  mean  to  say  that  this  was 
the  best  thing  that  could  have  happened  to  me.  I 
would  rather  put  the  matter  this  way — and  have  it 
understood  by  others — that  I  was  such  a  typical 
child  of  the  times  that,  in  my  perversity  and  as  a 
result  of  this  perversity,  I  turned  that  which  was 
good  in  my  life  to  evil,  and  that  which  was  evil  to 
good. 

Yet  it  does  not  matter  what  I  may  say  about 
myself  or  what  others  may  say  about  me.  The 
one  important  task  which  confronts  me  and  which 
I  must  perform  before  my  short  span  of  life  is 
ended  is  this — all  that  has  been  done  to  me  I  must, 
so  to  speak,  absorb  into  my  inner  consciousness, 
make  it  a  part  of  my  being,  accept  it  without  com- 
plaint, without  fear  or  trembling,  without  resist- 
ance. The  supreme  vice  is  doing  things  by  halves. 
Eight  is  that  which  has  been  fully  realised  and 
performed. 

When  I  entered  prison  certain  people  advised  me 
to  forget  that  such  an  individual  as  I  ever  existed. 
This  was  pernicious  counsel,  for  I  found  con- 
solation only  when  I  began  to  realise  who  and  what 
I  really  was.  Now  others  advise  me,  when  I  leave 
the  prison,  to  forget  that  I  was  ever  there.  To 
follow  their  advice  would  be  equally  fatal  to  me. 


DE  PROFUXDIS.  29 

It  would  mean  that  an  unbearable  feeling  of  shame 
would  haunt  me  for  the  rest  of  my  days;  that  all 
those  things  which  mean  as  much  to  me  as  they  do 
to  any  other  man — the  beauty  of  the  sun  and  moon, 
the  splendour  of  the  seasons,  the  music  of  the 
nascent  day  and  the  silence  of  the  long  nights,  the 
rain  dropping  gently  through  the  leaves  and  the 
dew  that  creeps  over  the  grass  and  clothes  it  with 
a  mantle  of  silver — all  these  things  would  be  for- 
ever sullied  and  lose  their  healing  virtue  and  their 
power  to  give  joy  to  my  aching  heart.  To  regret 
our  experience  is  to  stunt  our  development ;  to  dis- 
avow it  is  to  give  the  lie  to  our  whole  life.  For 
as  the  body  absorbs  different  kinds  of  food,  common 
and  unclean,  as  well  as  sacred,  consecrated  by  the 
word  of  the  priest  or  the  visionary's  faith,  and 
transforms  it  into  energy  and  force,  into  muscular 
action,  into  beautiful  fleshly  forms,  the  curves  of 
the  lips,  the  sweep  of  the  limbs,  the  colours  of  hair 
and  eyes — so  does  the  soul  possess  its  alimentary 
functions,  transforming  our  vulgar,  cruel  and  de- 
basing passions  into  noble  emotions  and  aspira- 
tions. Yea,  it  does  even  more,  for  the  human  soul 
finds  the  most  precious  material  for  its  subtle  self- 
activity  and  perfect  manifestation  in  material 
which  originally  was  discordant  and  destructive. 


30    THE  WHITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

One  fact  I  must  accept  unconditionally  and  with- 
out equivocation.  I  have  been  a  common  prisoner  in 
a  common  jail.  And,  strange  as  it  may  appear, 
one  of  the  lessons  which  I  will  have  to  teach  myself 
is  this — I  must  not  be  ashamed  of  the  fact.  I 
must  feel  that  my  imprisonment  is  a  just  punish- 
ment, for  if  we  are  ashamed  to  meet  the  punish- 
ment that  our  sins  merit,  it  were  better  we  had 
never  been  subjected  to  it.  On  the  other  hand,  I 
have  suffered  for  deeds  which,  to  my  knowledge,  I 
never  committed;  although  there  is  much  in  my 
life  which  might  be  laid  up  against  me,  and  which 
deserves  the  severest  punishment,  for  which  I  have 
never  been  called  to  account.  The  ways  of  the  gods 
are  shrouded  in  mystery!  They  chastise  us,  not 
only  for  that  which  is  good  and  normal  in  us,  but 
that  which  is  evil  and  perverse.  Therefore,  I  must 
become  reconciled  to  the  fact  that  we  are  chastened 
both  for  the  good  and  the  evil  we  do.  And  I  do  not 
doubt  in  the  least  that  this  is  just.  It  is  helpful — 
or  should  be  helpful — for  us  to  realise  this  instead 
of  flattering  ourselves  that  we  are  naturally  both 
good  and  bad. 

Therefore,  if  I  am  not  ashamed  of  my  punish- 
ment— and  I  hope  I  am  not — I  shall  be  able  to 
think,  to  go  about,  to  live  as  a  truly  free  man. 


DE  PROFUNDIS.  31 

Many,  when  they  are  discharged  from  prison, 
carry  the  memory  of  their  degradation  with  them 
into  the  world  and  endeavour  for  a  time  to  hide 
their  shame  in  the  secrecy  of  their  hearts,  and,  in 
the  end,  crawl,  like  poor  poisoned  creatures,  into 
a  hole  and  die.  It  is  infamous  that  one  who  has 
suffered  the  penalty  of  his  sins  should  be  forced  to 
endure  never-ending  disgrace,  and  it  is  a  wrong,  a 
grievous  wrong,  that  society  leaves  him  no  alterna- 
tive. After  inflicting  horrible  punishment  upon 
an  individual,  society  feels  that  it  has  done  its 
duty,  when  it  has  only  been  half  performed.  When 
a  man  has  made  amends  for  his  wrongdoing  he 
must  work  out  his  destiny  alone,  for  society  drops 
him  at  the  very  time  its  chief  duty  to  the  sufferer 
begins.  As  if  ashamed  of  its  own  acts,  society 
avoids  those  whom  it  has  punished,  just  as  one 
avoids  a  creditor  whom  one  is  unable  to  pay,  or  as 
some  people  shun  a  person  whom  they  have  irrevo- 
cably and  irretrievably  wronged. 

If  I  realise  all  that  I  have  suffered,  I  demand 
that  society  shall  realise  what  it  has  done  to  me  and 
what  it  owes  to  me;  that  we  should  both  banish 
from  our  hearts  all  feelings  of  embitterment  and 
hatred  and  let  the  past  be  forgotten. 

I  know  full  well  that  my  position  is  naturally  a 


32    THE  WEITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

more  difficult  one  than  that  of  the  average  prisoner. 
The  poor  and  wretched  thieves  and  vagabonds, 
who  are  here  in  prison  with  me,  are  in  many  re- 
spects more  fortunate  than  I.  The  scene  of  their 
sins,  the  dingy  town  or  the  green  fields,  is  quickly 
traversed;  if  they  wish  to  live  among  people  who 
know  nothing  of  their  deeds  they  need  only  travel 
as  far  as  a  bird  may  fly  between  sunset  and  break  of 
day.  But  for  me,  the  expanse  of  the  earth  has 
shrunk  to  the  breadth  of  a  hand,  and  no  matter  in 
what  direction  I  may  go  I  shall  read  my  name 
written  in  indelible  letters.  I  did  not  emerge  out 
of  the  darkness  into  the  glaring  light  of  notoriety, 
which  the  unknown  criminal  enjoys  for  a  brief  sea- 
son— I  fell  from  the  pinnacle  of  immortal  fame  into 
the  depth  of  everlasting  dishonour,  and  sometimes 
it  seems  to  me  that  I  have  furnished  the  proof — if 
such  proof  were  needed — that  it  is  but  one  step,  or 
less  than  a  step,  from  the  famous  to  the  infamous. 
Yet  because  of  the  very  fact  that  I  shall  be  recog- 
nised and  pointed  out  when  I  again  take  my  place 
in  the  world,  and  because  my  whole  career  or  rather 
the  mistakes  of  my  career  will  be  known  to  every 
one,  my  life  will  have  a  new  and  higher  meaning, 
for  I  shall  be  forced  to  reassert  and  re-establish 
myself.     And  the  sooner  this  happens  the  better, 


Reading  Gaol 


DE  PKOFUKDIS.  33 

for  when  I  succeed  in  producing  one  beautiful 
work  of  art,  one  masterpiece,  I  shall  be  able  to  de- 
prive calumny  of  its  poison  and  cowardice  of  its 
sting,  and  tear  the  detractor's  tongue  from  its 
roots.  If  life,  indeed,  prove  problematic  to  me,  I 
shall,  no  less,  be  a  problem  to  life ;  people  will  have 
to  decide  on  some  modus  vivendi  regarding  me.  I 
need  not  say  that  I  have  no  particular  persons  in 
mind.  The  only  people  I  would  care  to  associate 
with  are  artists  and  those  who  have  suffered;  who 
know  what  beauty  is  and  what  sorrow  means. 
Others  do  not  interest  me.  Then,  too,  I  shall  have 
no  claims  to  make  on  life.  All  I  have  said  here 
has  reference  only  to  my  own  spiritual  relation  to 
life  as  a  whole.  I  feel  that  I  must  not  be  ashamed 
of  my  punishment.  This  is  one  of  the  first  points 
I  must  gain  in  order  to  attain  the  ideal,  and  be- 
cause I  realise  my  own  imperfection. 

Then,  I  must  learn  how  to  be  happy !  There  was 
a  time  when  I  knew  happiness,  or  thought  I  did — 
instinctively.  At  that  time  spring  reigned  in  my 
heart ;  it  was  filled  with  the  joy  of  living.  My  life 
o'erflowed  with  pleasures,  like  a  cup  running  over 
with  wine.  I  now  look  upon  life  from  a  new  and 
different  point  of  view;  I  often  find  it  difficult  to 
form  even  a  conception  of  happiness.    I  remem- 


34    THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

ber — it  was  in  my  first  term  at  Oxford — reading  in 
Walter  Pater's  Renaissance — the  book  which  has 
so  strangely  influenced  my  life — how  Dante  rele- 
gated to  the  depths  of  the  Inferno  those  who  wil- 
fully surrender  their  souls  to  sadness,  and  going  to 
the  college  library  I  looked  up  the  passage  in  the 
Divine  Comedy  where  these  unfortunates  are  pic- 
tured as  dwelling  in  the  marshy  regions  of  helL 
"sad  in  the  sweet  air"  and  condemned  to  sigh : 

"Tristi  fummo 
Nell'  aer  dolce  che  dal  sol  s*  allegra." 

I  knew  that  the  church  disapproved  of  "accidia," 
but  this  notion  seemed  to  me  so  wholly  fantastic; 
just  the  kind  of  sin,  I  thought,  that  an  innocent 
priest  might  devise.  Nor  did  I,  then,  understand 
how  Dante,  who  says  in  another  passage,  that  "suf- 
fering unites  us  again  with  God,"  could  be  so  harsh 
against  those  who  gave  themselves  up  to  melan- 
choly, if  there  were  such.  I  did  not  then  suspect 
that  some  day  sadness  would  be  my  greatest 
temptation. 

While  I  was  confined  in  the  prison  at  Wands- 
worth, I  longed  to  die;  it  was  my  sole  desire. 
When,  after  two  months  in  the  infirmary,  I  was 


DE  PROFTTNDIS.  35 

brought  here  and  my  physical  condition  slowly  im- 
proved, I  stormed  with  rage.  I  decided  to  commit 
suicide  the  day  I  left  the  prison.  This  despond- 
ency left  me,  after  a  while,  and  I  made  up  my  mind 
to  live,  but  to  clothe  myself  in  melancholy,  as  a  king 
robes  himself  in  purple.  I  resolved  never  to  smile 
again,  to  make  every  house  I  entered  a  house  of 
mourning.  My  friends  were  to  walk  in  sadness  by 
my  side  and  move  with  measured  tread;  my  sor- 
row was  to  spoil  their  joy;  I  decided  to  torment 
them  with  my  own  suffering.  Now  I  think  differ- 
ently about  all  this.  It  would  be  ungrateful  and 
uncivil  of  me  to  make  a  wry  face  whenever  my 
friends  visited  me,  and  compel  them  to  make  still 
longer  faces,  merely  to  express  their  sympathy,  or 
ask  them  to  sit  down  silently,  like  mourners,  and 
partake  of  a  funeral  repast  of  bitter  herbs. 

I  must  learn  to  be  cheerful  and  happy.  The  last 
two  times  my  friends  were  allowed  to  visit  me  here 
in  prison  I  took  pains  to  be  as  joyful  as  possible  and 
to  appear  in  as  pleasant  a  frame  of  mind  as  I  could 
command,  in  order  to  show  them  my  appreciation 
of  the  trouble  they  had  taken  in  coming  all  the  way 
from  London  to  see  me.  I  am  fully  aware  that 
this  is  only  meagre  thanks,  but  I  am  sure  they 
prefer  this  method  of  demonstrating  my  gratitude 


36    THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

to  any  other.  A  week  ago  last  Saturday  I  was  al- 
lowed to  spend  a  whole  hour  in  conversation  with 
Robbie;  I  did  my  best  to  make  him  realise  my 
heartfelt  joy  at  our  meeting.  The  fact  that  for 
the  first  time  since  sentence  was  pronounced 
against  me  I  desire  most  eagerly  to  return  to  the 
world  proves  to  me  that  the  views  and  convictions 
I  have  formed  here  are  right  and  just.  There  is 
so  much  before  me,  so  much  to  be  done,  that  I 
would  look  upon  it  as  a  terrible  calamity  should  I 
die  before  I  had  had  a  chance  to  realise  at  least  a 
part  of  my  work.  I  see  before  me  new  possibilities 
of  development  in  art  and  in  life,  each  of  which 
points  to  the  attainment  of  the  ideal.  I  long  to 
live,  so  as  to  be  able  to  study  life  and  the  world 
which  are  as  good  as  new  to  me  now. 

Would  you  like  to  know  what  this  new  world  is  ? 
No  doubt  you  can  guess  it.  It  is  the  world  in 
which  I  have  been  living  for  the  past  two  years. 
Suffering  and  all  its  lessons — that  is  my  new  world. 
My  former  life  was  devoted  to  pleasure  alone.  To 
pain  and  care  I  gave  a  wide  berth ;  they  were  not 
to  my  taste.  I  made  it  a  habit  not  to  pay  the 
slightest  attention  to  them,  to  look  upon  them  as 
infirmities.  They  had  no  place  in  the  economy  of 
my  life,  no  place  in  my  system  of  philosophy. 


DE  PROFUNDIS.  37 

My  mother,  who  knew  life  through  and  through, 
used  to  quote  to  me  very  often  a  verse  of  Goethe's 
which,  many  years  ago,  Carlyle  had  written  in  one 
of  her  books  and  which,  as  I  remember  it,  ran,  in 
his  translation,  thus: 

"Who  never  ate  his  bread  in  sorrow, 
Who  never  spent  the  midnight  hours 

Weeping  and  waiting  for  the  morrow, — 
He  knows  you  not,  you  heavenly  powers. 

The  noble  Queen  Louise  of  Prussia,  whom  Na- 
poleon treated  so  brutally,  exiled  and  feeling  keenly 
the  humiliation  of  her  country,  often  quoted  these 
lines.  My  mother,  too,  frequently  quoted  them 
when  trouble  visited  her  in  her  later  years.  I  em- 
phatically declined  to  subscribe  to  or  even  admit 
the  great  truth  hidden  in  them.  I  could  not  then 
grasp  it.  I  remember  telling  my  mother  that  I  had 
no  desire  to  eat  my  bread  in  sorrow,  to  spend  my 
nights  weeping  and  waiting  for  a  still  sadder  mor- 
row. I  did  not  then  guess  that  this  was  to  be  one 
of  the  special  experiences  which  the  Fates  held  in 
store  for  me,  that  I  was  to  spend  a  whole  year  in 
doing  hardly  anything  else  but  weeping  and  wait- 
ing, and  the  Fates  have  given  me  full  measure. 


38    THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

During  the  past  few  months  I  have  succeeded,  after 
many  a  hard  struggle  with  myself,  to  grasp  a  few 
of  the  lessons  hidden  in  a  heart  filled  with  grief. 

Preachers,  and  people  who  repeat  stereotyped 
phrases  by  rote  and  without  reason,  often  speak 
of  suffering  as  a  mystery;  in  fact,  it  is  a  revela- 
tion. The  sufferer  realises  things  he  never  under- 
stood before.  He  begins  to  look  at  history  from  a 
different  angle  of  vision.  What  one  has  conjec- 
tured but  feebly  and  instinctively  in  the  realm  of 
art,  now  becomes  perfectly  real  in  the  realm  of 
thought  and  feeling.  I  now  realise  that  suffering 
as  the  noblest  emotion  of  which  man  is  capable, 
is,  as  it  were,  the  type  and  touchstone  of  art,  of 
the  highest  art. 

What  the  artist  strives  to  realise  is  that  state  of 
being  in  which  body  and  soul  are  an  entity,  in 
which  the  material  is  an  expression  of  the  spiritual, 
in  which  the  essence  of  things  finds  its  perfect  ex- 
pression. There  are  many  such  states  of  being; 
youth,  and  the  arts  whose  object  is  the  presentation 
of  youth,  may  serve  us  occasionally  as  models; 
again,  we  may  find  pleasure  in  thinking  that  mod- 
ern landscape  painting,  by  the  delicacy  and  sub- 
tlety with  which  it  expresses  impressions,  by  the 
manner  in  which  it  suggests  the  spiritual  which 


DE  PKOFUNDIS.  39 

hovers  about  the  inanimate  and  weaves  for  itself  a 
garment  out  of  air  and  mist,  out  of  fields  and 
cities,  by  its  morbidly  sensitive  harmony  of  moods, 
tones  and  colours,  has  realised  for  us  what  was  real- 
ised in  such  perfection  by  the  sculpture  of  Greece. 
Music,  in  which  all  form  and  matter  are  so  com- 
pletely absorbed  that  they  melt  into  one,  is  a  com- 
plex example,  and  a  flower  or  a  child  a  simple  ex- 
ample of  the  idea  which  I  am  striving  to  express 
in  words ;  but  suffering  is  the  final  type  both  in  life 
and  in  art. 

Laughter  and  mirth  may  hide  a  harsh  and  stern 
disposition,  but  behind  suffering  nothing  can  be 
found  but  suffering.  Pain  wears  no  mask  like  joy. 
Truth  in  art  does  not  consist  in  the  alternate  action 
and  reaction  of  the  idea  and  its  accidental  realisa- 
tion; it  is  not  the  resemblance  between  the  thing 
and  its  shadow,  or  between  the  image  of  a  body  in 
a  crystal  and  the  body  itself ;  neither  is  it  an  echo 
resounding  from  a  hollow  mountain,  nor  the  silvery 
spring  in  the  valley,  in  whose  waters  the  moon  and 
Narcissus  gaze  on  their  reflected  images.  Truth  in 
art  is  the  unity,  the  oneness,  of  a  thing  and  its 
idea,  the  phenomenon  expressive  of  the  idea,  the 
soul  projected  into  the  flesh,  the  body  become  one 


40    THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

with  the  spirit.  Therefore,  sorrow  or  suffering  is, 
beyond  comparison,  perfect  truth. 

At  times  suffering  seems  to  embody  all  truth. 
Other  feelings  may  be  delusions  of  the  eye  or 
stomach,  blinding  the  former  and  surfeiting  the 
latter;  out  of  suffering  was  the  universe  evolved; 
the  birth  of  a  star  and  a  child  are  accompanied 
with  pain,  by  suffering.  More  than  this,  suffering 
has  an  independent  existence;  it  is  a  reality  in 
itself. 

I  have  said  before  that  I  held  a  representative 
position  in  the  art  and  culture  of  my  age.  Every 
one  of  the  wretched  creatures  in  this  house  of 
misery,  every  one  of  my  fellow-prisoners,  is  sym- 
bolically related  to  the  secret  of  life,  is  typical  of 
life  itself.  For  suffering  is  the  secret,  the  very 
essence  of  life.  It  is  hidden  behind  everything. 
When  we  enter  life,  the  sweet  meets  us  with  such 
sweetness,  the  bitter  with  such  bitterness,  that 
naturally  our  whole  desire  is  for  the  joys  of  life. 
We  wish  to  live  on  honey,  not  only  for  a  month  or 
two,  but  for  all  time,  entirely  forgetting  that  we  are 
starving  our  souls. 

Once — I  remember  it  well — I  spoke  of  these 
things  to  one  of  the  most  beautiful  women  I  ever 
knew,  one  whose  generous  sympathy  and   noble 


DE  PKOFUKDIS.  41 

kindness,  shown  to  me  both  before  and  during  my 
imprisonment,  have  been  indescribable  and  truly 
sublime — who,  more  than  any  one  else  in  the  whole 
wide  world,  has  helped  me  to  bear  the  burden  of 
my  sorrows,  though  she  may  never  have  been  and 
is  not  now  aware  of  it.  And  all  this  she  did  by 
the  mere  fact  of  her  existence,  because  she  is  just 
what  she  is ;  because  she  embodies  an  ideal  as  well 
as  a  beneficent  power,  an  example  to  follow,  an 
inspiring,  convincing  force  on  the  road  towards  the 
ideal.  She  is  a  soul  who  imparts  sweetness  to  the 
commonplaces  of  every-day  life,  who  makes  the 
spiritual  appear  as  simple  and  natural  as  the  light 
of  the  sun,  or  the  ocean,  from  whose  eyes  beauty  and 
suffering  shine  forth  in  unison  and  bear  the  same 
message.  I  remember  very  distinctly  that  on  the 
occasion  I  have  in  mind  I  said :  "In  the  narrowest 
lane  in  London  there  is  misery  enough  to  prove 
that  God  does  not  love  mankind.  The  whole  face 
of  creation  is  disfigured  wherever  any  human  being 
is  suffering,  be  it  only  a  little  child  that  sits  weep- 
ing in  a  garden,  guilty  or  not  guilty  of  some 
wrongdoing."  I  was  entirely  mistaken.  She  told 
me  so,  but  I  would  not  admit  it.  I  could  not  admit 
it,  for  such  a  view  of  things  was  foreign  to  the 
world  of  ideas  in  which  I  then  lived. 


42    THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

Now  I  believe  that  love  of  some  kind  is  at  the 
bottom  of  the  immense  mass  of  woe  existing  in  the 
world.  In  fact,  I  am  convinced  of  it;  it  alone 
furnishes  an  adequate  explanation  of  suffering.  If 
the  universe  is,  as  I  said,  built  of  suffering,  then 
suffering  has  been  fashioned  by  the  hand  of  love; 
in  no  other  way  can  the  soul  of  man,  for  whom  the 
world  was  created,  develop  to  its  full  growth  and 
perfection. 

When  I  say  that  I  am  convinced  of  this,  I  be- 
tray too  much  vanity;  in  the  distance,  like  a  pearl 
without  a  flaw,  the  City  of  God  can  be  seen  by  mor- 
tal eyes.  It  shines  so  wonderfully  clear  and  ap- 
pears so  near  that  one  might  think  a  child  could 
reach  it  on  a  bright  summer's  day.  And  a  child 
could  reach  it,  too.  It's  different  with  me  and 
those  like  me.  We  can  realise  a  thing  in  one  fleet- 
ing moment,  but  we  lose  sight  of  it  again  in  the 
long  hours  which  follow  with  feet  of  lead.  It  is 
hard  to  walk  always  on  the  heights ;  as  is  the  right 
of  the  soul.  Our  thoughts  belong  to  Eternity,  but 
we  ourselves  progress  but  slowly  through  time. 
How  slowly  time  passes  for  us  who  live  in  prison, 
I  need  not  to  say,  neither  need  I  to  speak  of  the  en- 
nui and  despair  which  steal  so  persistently  into  our 
prison  cells  and  the  cells  of  our  hearts,  that  one  .is, 


DE  PKOFUNDIS.  43 

perforce,  obliged  to  clean  and  adorn  one's  house 
for  their  reception,  as  for  an  unwelcome  visitor,  for 
a  stern  master  or  a  slave  whose  slave  one  has  be- 
come, by  chance  or  by  choice. 

My  friends  may  find  it  hard  to  believe,  but  never- 
theless true  that  for  those  who  enjoy  liberty  and 
idle  luxury  it  is  much  easier  to  learn  the  lesson  of 
humility  than  it  is  for  me  who  begin  the  day  by 
scrubbing  the  floor  of  my  prison-cell.  For  life  in 
prison,  with  its  numberless  restrictions  and  priva- 
tions, makes  one  a  rebel.  The  most  terrible  feature 
of  life  in  prison  is  not  that  it  breaks  one's  heart — 
for  it  is  the  destiny  of  the  heart  to  be  broken — but 
that  our  hearts  are  turned  into  stone.  Sometimes 
I  feel  as  if  only  brazenness  and  scorn  could  help  me 
to  live  through  the  day.  But  he  whose  heart  har- 
bours feelings  of  rebellion  cannot  receive  grace — 
to  use  the  favourite  phrase  of  the  church.  And 
justly  so,  I  may  add;  for  in  life,  as  well  as  in 
art,  a  rebellious  mood  blocks  the  avenues  of  the 
soul  and  shuts  out  the  free  air  of  heaven.  But  if 
I  am  to  learn  the  lesson  of  humility  at  all,  I  must 
learn  it  here  and  now;  and  I  must  be  filled  with 
joy  if  my  feet  tread  the  right  road  and  my  face  is 
turned  towards  "the  gate  which  is  called  beautiful," 


44    THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

though  I  may  sometimes  fall  in  the  dust  or  go 
astray  in  the  mist. 

This  "New  Life,"  as  I  often  love  to  call  it  in 
memory  of  Dante,  is  really  no  new  life  at  all,  but 
simply  the  process  of  self-development,  the  con- 
tinuation and  further  evolution  of  my  past  life. 

One  beautiful  morning,  when  I  was  at  Oxford — 
in  the  year  before  I  graduated — while  walking 
with  one  of  my  friends  in  the  paths  around  Magda- 
len College,  musical  with  birds,  I  said  that  I  felt 
tempted  to  eat  of  the  fruits  of  every  tree  in  the 
garden  of  life;  that  I  would  enter  the  world  with 
this  passionate  desire  in  my  heart.  And  thus,  in 
very  truth,  I  entered  life,  and  thus  I  lived.  The 
only  mistake  I  made  was  that  I  confined  myself 
exclusively  to  eating  fruit  from  the  trees  which 
stood  in  that  part  of  the  garden  which  was  flooded 
by  the  golden  light  of  the  sun,  while  I  avoided  those 
which  stood  in  the  shade  and  gloom.  Failure, 
shame,  poverty,  cares,  despair,  suffering,  even 
tears,  the  words  born  of  sorrow  and  remorse,  which 
strew  our  path  with  thorns,  the  conscience  which 
condemns,  the  self-abasement  which  punishes,  the 
misery  which  sprinkles  ashes  on  the  head  of  the 
sufferer,  the  anguish  of  the  soul  that  is  clothed  in 
sackcloth  and  makes  bitter  every  drink — all  these 


DE  PKOFUNDIS.  45 

I  carefully  avoided.  And  since  I  had  made  up  my 
mind  to  refuse  to  become  acquainted  with  them, 
the  Fates  decreed  that  I  should  learn  to  know  them 
one  by  one,  that  I  should  taste  them,  feed  on  them, 
be  for  a  time  without  any  other  food. 

I  do  not  regret  for  one  moment  that  I  have  lived 
a  life  of  pleasure.  I  lived  it  to  its  full  measure, 
as  one  should  do  everything.  There  was  no  form 
of  pleasure  which  I  did  not  experience.  The  pearl 
of  my  soul  I  threw  into  a  cup  of  wine.  To  the 
sound  of  flutes  I  walked  down  the  flowery  path  of 
dalliance.  I  lived  on  honey.  But  it  would  have 
been  a  mistake  to  have  continued  this  sort  of  life, 
because  it  would  have  been  narrow  and  one-sided. 
I  was  drawn  further  on.  The  other  half  of  the  gar- 
den, too,  was  to  disclose  its  secrets  to  me. 

That  much  of  this  is  foreshadowed  in  my  writ- 
ings may  easily  be  imagined.  Traces  of  it  are  seen 
in  The  Happy  Prince,  also  in  the  fairy-tale,  The 
Young  King,  especially  in  that  passage  where  the 
bishop  says  to  the  kneeling  youth :  "Is  not  He  who 
made  misery  wiser  than  you  are  ?"  When  I  wrote 
this  sentence  it  seemed  to  me  no  more  than  a  mere 
empty  phrase.  Still  more  of  this  thought  is  se- 
cretly hidden  in  the  warning  voice  which  may  be 
heard  all  through  the  story  of  Vivian  Gray;  it 


46     THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

shines  in  many  colors  in  the  essay,  The  Critic  as  an 
Artist;  it  stands  revealed,  in  letters  easily  read  by 
any  one,  in  The  Soul  of  Man.  It  is  voiced,  again 
and  again,  like  the  burden  of  a  song  in  Salome, 
which  thus  resembles  a  musical  composition,  or  a 
well-linked  ballad;  it  has  assumed  flesh  and  blood 
in  the  prose-poem  which  tells  of  an  artist  whose 
task  it  was  to  fashion  from-  the  bronze  of  the 
statue  of  "the  Pleasure  that  abideth  for  a  mo- 
ment" an  image  of  "the  Sorrow  that  endureth 
forever."  It  could  not  have  been  otherwise ;  it  was 
so  to  be.  One  is,  in  every  moment  of  one's  life, 
what  one  will  be  no  less  than  what  one  is  or  has 
been.    Art  is  symbolic,  for  man  is  a  symbol. 

If  I  can  ever  reach  the  goal,  humility  will  be 
the  last  and  highest  stage  of  my  development  as  an 
artist.  The  artist  must  prove  that  he  possesses 
humility  by  accepting  his  experiences  uncondition- 
ally, just  as  love  in  an  artist  is  simply  his  sense  of 
beauty,  by  which  he  reveals  to  the  world  its  body 
and  its  soul.  Walter  Pater,  in  his  novel,  Marius 
the  Epicurean,  attempts  to  depict  the  unity  of  ar- 
tistic and  religious  life,  taking  religion  in  the  deep, 
the  sweet,  and  also  the  stern  meaning  of  the  word. 
But  Marius  is  little  more  than  a  mere  spectator — 
an  ideal  spectator,  to  be  sure,  one  who  has  the  gift 


DE  PKOFUXDIS.  47 

"to  view  the  spectacle  of  life  through  the  medium 
of  his  own  emotions,"  which  "Wordsworth  claims  to 
be  the  true  mission  of  the  poet ;  yet  only  a  spectator, 
after  all,  who  is  too  much  occupied  with  studying 
the  lovely  carving  of  the  benches  in  the  temple,  to 
see  the  temple  of  sorrow  itself.  I  see  a  closer  and 
more  direct  connection  between  the  true  life  of 
Christ  and  the  true  life  of  the  artist. 

The  thought  fills  me  with  great  joy  that,  long 
before  sorrow  took  hold  of  me  and  bound  me  on  its 
rack,  I  had  written  in  the  Soul  of  Man  that  he  who 
wishes  to  lead  a  Christ-like  life  must  be  absolutely 
and  entirely  himself,  taking  for  example  not  merely 
the  shepherd  on  the  moor  and  the  prisoner  in  his 
cell,  but  also  the  painter,  to  whom  the  world  is  but 
a  passing  show,  and  the  poet,  to  whom  the  world  is 
a  song. 

I  said  once  to  Andre  Gide,  as  we  sat  together  in 
a  Paris  cafe,  that  metaphysics  did  not  interest  me 
much,  and  ethics  not  in  the  least;  but  all  that 
Plato  and  Christ  had  said,  I  claimed,  could  be 
transplanted  into  the  realm  of  art,  without  change, 
and  find  there  its  complete  fulfilment.  In  its 
generalisation,  this  dictum  of  mine  was  just  as  wide 
as  it  was  new.  It  is  not  alone  the  close  relationship 
of  personality  and  perfection  which  we  readily  see 


48     THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

in  Christ  that  forms  the  real  distinguishing  fea- 
ture between  classicism  and  romanticism  and 
makes  Christ  appear  as  the  true  herald  of  the  ro- 
mantic movement  in  life,  but  the  kernel  of  His 
being  which  was  the  same  as  that  which  constitutes 
the  artist,  strong,  fervid  imagination. 

He  possessed,  in  a  paramount  degree,  that  soul- 
and-mind  quality  which  enters  into  the  understand- 
ing of  all  human  relations,  that  sympathetic  im- 
agination, which  is  the  sole  secret  of  artistic  crea- 
tion. He  understood  the  disease  of  the  leper,  the 
night  of  the  blind,  the  grim  misery  of  the  devotees 
of  pleasure,  and  the  strange  poverty  of  the  rich. 
Some  one  wrote  to  me  in  my  misery :  "When  you 
are  not  on  your  pedestal  you  are  uninteresting." 
How  far  this  writer  was  from  understanding  and 
practising — what  Matthew  Arnold  calls  the  "secret 
of  Jesus" !  Both  could  have  taught  him  that  what 
happens  to  your  neighbour,  happens  to  you.  If  you 
wish  to  have  a  text  which  you  may  read  by  day  and 
by  night,  in  sorrow  and  in  joy,  then  write  on  the 
walls  of  your  house,  for  the  sun  to  gild  it  and  the 
moon  to  bathe  in  silvery  light :  "Whatever  happens 
to  me,  happens  to  another." 

Christ  is  a  true  poet.  His  whole  conception  of 
humanity  sprang  from  the  power  of  imagination 


DE  PROFUXDIS.  49 

and  can  only  be  grasped  by  it.  Man  was  to  Him 
what  God  is  to  the  pantheist.  He,  first,  conceived 
all  the  different  races  of  man  as  one,  as  a  unity. 

Before  Christ  there  had  existed  on  one  side  gods, 
and  on  the  other  men ;  He  felt,  by  some  mysterious 
sympathy,  that  both  were  incarnate  in  Himself, 
and,  therefore,  He  calls  Himself  now  the  Son  of 
God,  now  the  Son  of  Man,  just  as  it  occurred  to 
Him.  More  than  any  one  in  all  history,  He  infuses 
into  us  that  receptiveness  for  the  wonderful,  to 
which  romantic  art  makes  its  appeal.  There  is  even 
now  to  me  something  almost  incredible  in  the  idea 
that  a  young  Galilean  peasant  could  imagine  that 
He  had  the  power  to  take  upon  and  carry  on  His 
shoulders  the  burden  of  the  whole  world:  all  that 
had  been  done  and  suffered,  and  all  the  deeds  and 
suffering  of  the  future :  the  sins  of  Xero,  of  Caesar 
Borgia,  of  Alexander  VI,  and  the  sins  of  him  who 
wa.s  emperor  of  Eome  and  Priest  of  the  Sun:  the 
suffering  of  all  whose  name  is  Legion  and  who 
dwell  among  the  graves :  the  enslaved  nations,  the 
children  in  factories,  thieves,  prisoners,  outcasts, 
those  who  bear  their  yoke  in  silence  and  whose 
silence  is  only  heard  by  God.  And  He  not  only  im- 
agines it,  He  actually  does  it,  so  that  at  this  very 
moment  all  who  come  in  touch  with  Him,  even  if 


50    THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

they  do  not  bow  before  His  altar  or  kneel  before 
His  priests,  feel,  somehow,  that  the  ugliness  of 
their  sins  is  taken'  from  them,  and  the  beauty  of 
their  suffering  has  been  revealed. 

I  have  said  that  Christ  must  be  counted  among 
the  poets.  And  that  is  true.  Shelley  and 
Sophocles  are  His  brethren.  And  His  whole  life 
is  a  wonderful  poem.  He  lived  poetry  and  tragedy, 
too.  If  one  looks  for  "fear  and  pity,"  there  is 
nothing  in  the  whole  range  of  Greek  tragedy  which 
can  compare  with  the  life  of  Christ.  The  spotless, 
immaculate  purity  of  the  Protagonist  raises  the 
whole  structure  to  such  a  height  of  romantic  art 
that  the  tragedies  of  the  House  of  (Edipus  and  the 
House  of  Pelops  are  excluded  by  their  very  horror, 
and  this  shows  how  false  is  the  assertion  of  Aris- 
totle, in  his  treatise  on  the  drama",  that  the  sight  of 
guiltless,  innocent  suffering  was  unbearable. 
Neither  in  iEschylus  nor  in  Dante,  those  stern 
masters  of  tenderness,  nor  in  Shakespeare,  the  most 
purely  humane  of  all  the  great  artists,  nor  in  all 
the  Celtic  myths  and  legends,  in  which  the  loveli- 
ness of  the  world  shines  forth  through  a  veil  of 
tears  and  in  which  the  life  of  man  is  of  no  more 
value  than  the  life  of  a  flower,  in*  all  these  there  is 
nothing   that   in   simplicity   of    suffering — which 


DE  PROFUNDIS.  51 

goes  hand-in-hand  with  the  most  exalting  sublimity 
and  results  in  the  grandest  tragedy — can  compare 
with,  or  even  approach  to,  the  last  act  of  Christ's 
Passion.  The  simple  meal  with  His  disciples,  of 
whom  one  has  already  sold  Him  for  filthy  gain; 
the  agony  of  soul  in  the  calm,  secluded,  moonlit 
garden;  the  traitor-friend  stepping  up  to  Him  to 
betray  Him  with  a  kiss;  the  friend  who  still  be- 
lieves in  Him  and  on  whom,  as  on  a  rock,  he  had 
meant  to  build  a  refuge  for  humanity,  denying 
Him  when  the  cock's  crow  announced  the  break  of 
day;  His  complete  isolation,  His  submissiveness 
and  readiness  to  bear  any  and  everything; — and 
then,  in  contrast  to  this,  such  scenes  as  the  ortho- 
dox high-priest  tearing  his  garment  in  anger  and 
wrath ;  the  representative  of  civil  authority  sending 
for  water  in  the  vain  hope  of  cleansing  himself 
from  the  stain  of  innocent  blood  which  brands  him 
in  history  as  the  scarlet  man;  the  crowning  of 
Christ  with  thorns — one  of  the  most  wonderful  and 
powerful  scenes  ever  depicted  in  any  book — the 
crucifixion  of  the  Innocent  One  before  the  eyes  of 
His  mother  and  the  disciple  whom  He  loved  so 
dearly;  the  soldiers  gambling  and  casting  dice  for 
His  garments;  the  terrible  death  which  became 
symbolic  for  the  world  for  all  time  to  come ;  and,  at 


53    THE  WBITIXGS  0  J     -     .3  WILDE. 

.zf7  :zi  ~izz-:zzzzzzzi~z  iz  :.:.-  f777._77"7   ::  :ze  t.zz 

zzlizz.  E:f  ":•:.:-  i~  7:7:  ~::'i  :■:<:'.-  :.~i  i~-:-iz- 
r-.i'.'.:z.:  -y.rf  tz!  —  ? .-. y i" .f ■  .i  in  Zr-:::i  lir.iz.  is 
if  he  had  been  m  king's  son;  if  one  -views  all  this 

:7:ti  :77  Tiz:7.zr  zrziz  .  ::'  irz  :ze  77 if  :;  7z;:;- 
fzl  :z.::  777  zif:  f  7:777  77777;;:  >.fr—  ;~  if  :~? 
ttvstztlz.'z  ;;  zn  7r.:rf,"-7  ~::i: ;::  ':;  •;.;  -  7.7: 
■;:  ';'_:•:  : :  :'ir  :::;  f:i::i  ::7f77777  :z  :z  ;;::f:'f  ?:f- 
si:z  :~  7.7; :  7  f  ;:  ;::.;. :_:7.  77:7777  ::;;  7-77777?: 
777  .  :;.t  "7 '77-:  7.7  ".~.V7  :777  7:  tz:  7  ;:::?;*f  :: 
77-^7777-".  ;'•;•-  :"::;:  -f  77  *  iz  77-  zzizifzziz:  -7.  :• 
ZTTcTS  ::.:  :--••::?  —  .  -"zilr  :'ii  :r^:  if  :;'f::::;7r 
:77  77: ; ; f .  z'lr  !:-:  7777777:  ::  ::;  7-Z7k  .'7:771s  :zz: 
::::;7~:-7  ~:::.i  :.2~7  777-7  77:;:;.;"  _  -:  :.;  7::. 

Yet  the  life  of  Christ,  considered  as  a  whole — so 
7777.  777'.  7  7.7  7:7-7777  :::  .  : -7.77:7  :zz  zn.z  77777 
7777777:7  77"  17  :z7ir  7777777  :zz±zz:.zi<z.?.zi:zz 
zza'.z  it:::  7; — if  iz  77 7 1777  77  zij"..  iz  7  z;  ::  :ze 
:':::  7.::  i:  7zif  ~zz'z  :*77  -7777  ::  77  ;::77:iz 
in  the  temple,  thai  at  Bis  death  darkness  covers 
7.7  7:7:7.  17  :  :  7777  if  7  i  1 7  7:7;  77  77:tzzv 
::  7:7  -7777777.  Ciizif:  if  ;7::i7  7;::  7-77  :■".  - 
2,  7:777  '::::; 7-   77 — ir.  7:7  zii.if:  ::  Hif  :if:i: 7  f 

his   herd   through   valleys   in  search   of   green, 

-     :     "  ■".  f7         -      :  7f  7  f:77;: 


DE  PROFODIS.  53 

to  build  out  of  music  the  walls  of  the  City  of  God, 
or  as  a  lover  "whose  tender  heart  embraces  the 
whole  world.  His  miracles  seem  to  me  as  sweet  as 
the  approach  of  spring  and  just  as  natural.  I  can 
readily  believe  that  His  personality  possessed  such 
charm  and  magic  power  that  His  mere  presence 
brought  peace  to  those  whose  heart  was  tormented 
by  anguish ;  that  those  who  touched  His  garments 
or  His  hands  forgot  their  suffering;  that  when  He 
walked  along  the  highroads,  people  whose  eyes  had 
been  blind  to  the  secret  of  life  understood  all  mys- 
tery; that  others,  whose  ears  were  closed  to  every 
voice  but  that  of  pleasure,  heard  for  the  first  time 
the  voice  of  love  and  found  it  "as  sweetly  musical 
as  Apollo's  lyre";  that  at  His  approach  evil  pas- 
sions fled  from  those  who  had  been  held  in  bondage, 
and  that  men  whose  dull,  unimaginative  lives  had 
been  only  another  form  of  death,  were  raised,  as  it 
were,  from  the  grave  when  He  called  them;  that 
the  multitude  to  which  He  preached  on  the  slope 
of  the  hill  forgot  hunger  and  thirst  and  worldly 
cares,  and  that  His  friends,  when  they  sat  with 
Him  at  table,  relished  the  coarse  food,  to  them  the 
water  tasted  like  costly  wine,  and  that  the  whole 
house  seemed  to  be  filled  with  the  fragrance  of 
nards. 


54    THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

Ernest  Renan  says,  somewhere  in  his  Life  of 
Christ — the  charming  fifth  gospel  which  one  might 
call  the  gospel  according  to  St.  Thomas — that  the 
greatest  achievement  of  Christ  consisted  in  His 
retaining  after  His  death  the  love  which  He  had 
inspired  during  His  life.  If  His  place  be  among 
the  poets,  He  surely  leads  the  procession  of  those 
who  love.  He  recognised  that  Love  was  the  secret 
spring  of  life  for  which  the  wise  men  had  been 
searching,  and  that  you  can  touch  the  heart  of  the 
leper  or  approach  the  throne  of  God  if  you  have 
love  in  your  heart.  But  above  all,  Christ  is  the 
most  perfect  individualist.  Humility  is  only  a 
form  of  revelation,  like  all  the  experiences  of  an 
artist.  Christ  is  always  in  quest  of  the  soul  of 
man.  He  calls  it  "God's  kingdom" — rj  paffilsia 
rov  deov — and  He  finds  it  in  every  human 
being.  He  compares  it  to  small,  simple  things :  a 
seed,  a  handful  of  leaven,  a  pearl,  for  the  reason 
that  one  can  purify  and  improve  one's  soul  only  by 
getting  rid  of  all  passions  foreign  to  its  nature,  all 
acquired  culture,  all  material  possessions,  whether 
useful  or  harmful. 

I  refused  to  realise  and  to  receive  this  truth  with 
all  the  force  of  an  obstinate  will  and  all  the  power 
of  a  rebellious  spirit  until  I  had  lost  everything  I 


DE  PROFUXDIS.  55 

possessed  in  this  world  except  Cyril.  My  name, 
my  position,  happiness,  liberty,  fortune:  all  were 
gone.  One  precious  possession  alone  consoled  me — 
my  sons.  Suddenly  they,  too,  were  taken  from  me 
by  the  law  of  the  land.  This  blow  completely 
stunned  me;  I  did  not  know  which  way  to  turn. 
I  sunk  to  my  knees,  bent  my  head,  wept  and  said : 
"The  body  of  a  child  is  as  the  body  of  the  Lord; 
I  am  unworthy  of  either."  And  in  this  moment  I 
felt  that  I  was  saved.  Then  and  there  I  realised 
that  there  was  nothing  left  for  me  but  to  take  my 
burden  upon  myself  and  bear  it  to  the  end.  Since 
then — no  doubt  it  sounds  strange — since  then  I 
have  been  far  happier. 

I  had  reached  the  last  phase  in  the  development 
of  my  soul.  In  many  respects  I  had  been  its 
enemy,  but  I  found  that  it  had  been  waiting  for 
me  as  a  good  friend.  When  one  comes  in  touch 
with  one's  own  soul,  one  becomes  as  simple  as  a 
child,  as  one  should,  according  to  the  words  of 
Christ.  It  is  sad  to  see  how  few  succeed,  before 
death,  in  "possessing  their  soul."  Emerson  says 
that  there  is  nothing  more  rare  in  a  man  than  self- 
activity,  an  act  prompted  by  his  real  self,  his  own 
will.  And  he  is  right.  Most  people  are  really — 
other  people.     Their  thoughts  are  the  opinions  of 


56    THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

others,  their  lives  are  imitations  of  the  lives  of 
others;  their  passions  are  not  original,  they  are 
quotations.  Christ  was  not  only  the  greatest  in- 
dividualist, He  was  the  first  in  history.  Some  have 
tried  to  make  Him  out  a  commonplace  philanthro- 
pist on  the  pattern  of  the  frightful  humanitarian 
of  the  nineteenth  century ;  others  have  placed  Him 
in  the  rank  of  altruists — ignorant  and  sentimental 
visionaries.  In  fact,  He  was  neither  the  one  nor 
the  other.  To  be  sure,  He  had  compassion  on  the 
poor,  the  prisoners,  the  lowly  and  unfortunate,  but 
He  had  still  more  pity  for  the  rich,  the  irredeem- 
able hedonists,  for  those  who  squander  their  free- 
dom and  become  slaves  to  pleasure,  for  those  who 
strut  about  in  soft  garments  and  live  in  kings'  man- 
sions. Riches  and  luxurious  living  He  looked  upon 
as  greater  calamities  than  poverty  and  suffering. 
As  to  His  altruism — who  knew  better  than  He  did 
that  it  is  not  our  free  will  which  determines  our 
resolutions  and  actions,  and  that  thorns  do  not  bear 
grapes,  and  thistles  do  not  bring  forth  figs? 
Neither  did  He  teach  that  we  should  make  it  our 
life's  calling  to  live  for  others;  at  least  this  was 
not  the  foundation  of  His  faith.  When  Christ 
says:  "Forgive  your  enemies,"  He  advises  us  to 
do  so,  not  so  much  for  our  enemies'  sake,  but  for 


DE  PROFUNDIS.  57 

our  own,  and  because  to  love  is  more  beautiful  than 
to  hate. 

When  He  advises  the  rich  youth:  "Sell  what 
thou  hast  and  give  to  the  poor,"  He  has  in  mind 
not  so  much  the  condition  of  the  poor,  but  the  soul 
of  the  youth,  the  beautiful  soul  which,  with  all  his 
riches,  was  in  dire  need.  In  His  conception  of  life 
He  is  one  with  the  artist  who  knows  well  that  in 
consequence  of  the  immutable  law  of  self-develop- 
ment the  poet  is  bound  to  sing,  the  sculptor  to  ex- 
press his  thoughts  in  marble  and  bronze,  the 
painter  to  reflect  the  world  in  the  mirror  of  his 
moods  as  surely  as  the  hawthorn  must  bloom  in 
spring,  and  the  wheat  ripen  into  golden  ears,  and 
the  moon  in  its  prescribed  orbit  change  from  full 
to  crescent  and  from  crescent  to  full. 

Though  Christ  did  not  teach  men  the  lesson: 
<rLive  for  one  another,"  He  showed  them  that  there 
was  no  difference  between  the  lives  of  others  and 
our  own.  Thereby  He  enlarged  man's  personality 
to  Titanic  proportions.  Since  He  appeared  among 
men  the  history  of  every  single  individual  is,  or,  at 
least,  may  become,  the  history  of  humanity.  No 
doubt  civilisation  has  heightened  man's  personality. 
Art  has  a  myriad  of  spiritual  aspects.  One  who 
possesses  the  artistic  temperament  goes  with  Dante 


58     THE  WHITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

into  exile  and  learns  how  bitter  the  bread  of  others 
may  be  and  how  steep  the  road  they  travel,  shares 
for  a  moment  the  serenity  and  calm  of  Goethe  and 
yet  knows  only  too  well  that  Baudelaire  cried  to 
God:  "0  Seigneur,  donnez-moi  la  force  et  le 
courage  de  contemples  mon  corps  et  mon  coeur  sans 
degout !" 

He  learns  from  Shakespeare's  sonnets — to  his 
own  harm,  maybe — the  secret  of  love  and  makes  it 
his  own;  he  looks  at  modern  life  with  different 
eyes  when  he  has  listened  to  one  of  Chopin's  noc- 
turnes, or  has  studied  the  art  of  Greece,  or  has 
read  the  story  of  the  passion  of  a  dead  man  for  a 
dead  woman,  whose  hair  resembled  fine  threads  of 
gold,  whose  mouth  was  like  a  pomegranate. 

But  this  congenial  sympathy  of  the  artistic  tem- 
perament is  confined  to  what  has  already  found 
expression  in  words  or  colours,  in  tones  or  in  mar- 
ble, behind  the  painted  masks  of  a  drama  by  iEs- 
chylus  or  through  the  reeds  of  the  pan-pipe  of  a 
Sicilian  shepherd,  and  the  man  and  his  love-mess- 
age must  have  been  revealed.  The  artist  can  com- 
prehend life  only  by  reflecting  it  in  some  material 
or  form.  What  cannot  be  voiced  is  mute  and  dumb 
to  him.  It  was  different  with  Christ.  With  a 
power  of  imagination,  wonderful  and  comprehen- 


DE  PROFUNDIS.  59 

sive,  which  fills  one  with  holy  awe,  He  chose  for 
His  kingdom  the  whole  world  of  the  inexpressible, 
the  world  of  sorrow  and  suffering,  which  is  voice- 
less and  silent,  and  He  made  Himself  its  spokes- 
man. Those  who  are  dumb  in  their  misery  and. 
"whose  silence  is  only  heard  by  God,"  He  made 
his  brothers.  He  strove  to  be  the  eyes  of  the  blind, 
the  ears  of  the  deaf,  and  to  give  voice  to  the  lips 
of  those  whose  tongues  were  tied.  His  desire  was 
to  be  a  trumpet  through  which  the  myriads,  who 
had  not  the  power  of  speech,  might  raise  their  cry 
up  to  heaven.  And  since  Christ  the  artist — to  whom 
suffering  and  sorrow  were  forms  through  which  He 
found  His  idea  of  beauty  expressed — realised  that 
an  idea  has  no  value  until  it  becomes  incarnate  in 
some  image,  He  made  himself  the  image  of  suffer- 
ing, and  as  such  He  has  stimulated  and  dominated 
art  as  no  Greek  god  ever  did. 

For  the  gods  of  Greece  were,  in  reality,  not  what 
they  appeared  to  be,  in  spite  of  the  red  and  white 
tints  of  their  beautiful,  soft  bodies.  The  noble, 
arched  forehead  of  Apollo  resembled  the  sun  when 
it  rises  above  a  hill  at  dawn,  and  his  feet  were  like 
the  wings  of  the  morning,  but  he  himself  was  cruel 
towards  Marsyas  and  robbed  Niobe  of  her  children. 
In  Athena's  steel-blue  eyes  dwelled  no  mercy  for 


60    THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

Arachne;  the  dignity  and  the  peacocks  of  Hera 
were  all  that  were  distinguished  and  noble  about  the 
goddess ;  and  the  Father  of  the  Gods  loved  too  well 
the  daughters  of  men. 

The  two  most  deeply  significant  figures  in  Greek 
■mythology  were,  in  religion,  Demeter,  a  goddess 
of  the  earth,  not  of  Olympus,  and  Dionysius,  the 
son  of  a  mortal  woman,  to  whom  the  moment  of  his 
birth  was  at  the  same  time  the  moment  of  her 
death. 

But  life,  human  life,  from  the  lowliest  and  sim- 
plest sphere,  produced  a  much  more  gloriously  won- 
drous being  than  Proserpina's  mother  or  Semele's- 
son.  An  infinitely  greater  personality  than  ever  con- 
ceived by  myths  or  legends,  went  forth  from  the 
carpenter's  shop  in  Nazareth,  a  personality  which 
was  strangely  destined  to  teach  to  the  world  the 
mysterious  significance  of  wine  and  reveal  to  it  the 
true  beauty  of  the  lilies  of  the  fields  as  none  ever 
did  on  Cithasron  or  at  Enna.  "He  is  despised  and 
rejected  of  men,  a  man  of  sorrows  and  acquainted 
with  grief;  and  we  hid,  as  it  were,  our  face  from 
him."  These  words  of  Isaiah  referred  to  Christ, 
and  the  prophecy  was  fulfilled  in  Him. 

We  need  not  to  hesitate  to  use  this  phrase.  Every 
work  of  art  is  the  embodiment  of  an  idea,  its  ma- 


DE  PROFUXDIS.  61 

terialisation.  Every  human  being  should  be  the 
realisation  of  an  ideal,  either  in  the  eyes  of  God  or 
of  men.  Christ  found  the  type  prepared  and  real- 
ised it,  and  the  dream  of  a  Virgilian  poet,  in  Jeru- 
salem or  Babylon,  was  fulfilled  after  centuries 
through  Him  for  whose  advent  the  world  had  been 
waiting.  "His  visage  was  so  marred  more  than 
any  man,  and  his  form  more  than  the  sons  of 
men" ;  by  this,  as  Isaiah  meant,  the  new  ideal  was 
to  be  known. 

As  soon  as  art  began  to  understand  the  meaning 
of  those  words,  it  opened  like  the  calyx  of  a  flower 
in  the  presence  of  Him  in  whom  the  truth  in  art 
became  manifest  as  never  before.  For,  as  I  said 
above,  is  it  not  truth  in  art  when  the  soul  becomes 
flesh,  the  body  one  with  the  spirit,  and  its  true 
form  revealed  ? 

In  all  history  I  know  of  nothing  which  is  more 
to  be  regretted  than  that  the  Christian  Renais- 
sance, which  had  produced  the  Chartres  Cathedral, 
the  cycle  of  the  legends  about  King  Arthur,  the  life 
of  St.  Francis  of  Assisi,  the  art  of  Giotto  and 
Dante's  Divine  Comedy,  was  not  allowed  to  pro- 
gress on  its  well-defined  road,  but  was  checked  and 
ruined  by  the  miserable  classical  Renaissance  which 
gave  us  Petrarch  and  Raphael's  frescoes  and  Pal- 


62    THE  WHITINGS  OF  OSCAE  WILDE. 

ladio's  architectural  art  and  the  stiff  and  form- 
bound  French  tragedies  and  St.  Paul's  Cathedral 
and  Pope's  poems  and  each  and  everything  which 
comes  from  without  and  is  conceived  according  to 
rigid,  lifeless  rules,  instead  of  flowing  from  the 
living  spirit  within.  But  everywhere,  where  art  is 
romantic,  we  find  somehow,  in  one  form  or  another, 
Christ  or  Christ's  spirit.  He  is  in  Romeo  and 
Juliet,  in  A  Winter's  Tale,  in  Provengal  poetry,  in 
Coleridge's  Ancient  Mariner,  in  La  Belle  Dame 
sans  Merci,  and  in  Chatterton's  Ballad  of  Mercy. 
We  owe  to  Him  the  most  diverse  things  and 
beings:  Les  Miserables  by  Hugo,  Baudelaire's 
Fleurs  du  Mai,  the  note  of  misery  and  sym- 
pathy in  Bussian  novels,  the  stained  glass  and  tap- 
estry and  the  quattro-cento  works  of  Burne-Jones 
and  of  Morris;  Verlaine  and  his  poems  we  owe  to 
Him,  as  well  as  the  bell-tower  of  Giotto,  Lancelot 
and  Guinevere,  Tannhauser,  the  romantic,  awe- 
inspiring  sculpture  of  Michelangelo,  the  Gothic 
pointed-arch  and  the  love  of  children  and  flowers — 
for  there  was  little  room  for  both  in  classic  art, 
hardly  enough  for  them  to  grow  and  to  play  in,  but 
from  the  twelfth  century  down  to  our  own  time 
they  appeared  again  and   again  under  different 


DE  PROFU^DIS.  63 

forms  and  at  different  times,  whimsical  and  self- 
willed  as  flowers  and  children  are  apt  to  be. 

In  spring  we  always  feel  as  if  the  flowers  had 
been  in  hiding  and  step  out  into  the  light  of  the 
sun  only  through  fear  that  grown-up  people  might 
become  tired  of  looking  for  them  and  give  up  the 
quest.  And  the  life  of  a  child  is  like  a  day  in 
April,  when  the  daffodils  are  now  drenched  by  rain, 
now  basking  in  sunshine. 

The  imaginative  element  in  Christ's  personality 
makes  Him  the  pulse  and  centre  of  romanticism. 
The  strange  tropes  in  the  poetic  drama  and  in  many 
ballads  are  produced  by  the  imagination  of  others, 
but  Jesus  of  Nazareth  created  Himself,  as  it  were, 
by  the  power  of  His  own  imagination.  The  proph- 
ecy of  Isaiah  had  in  reality  no  more  to  do  with 
Christ's  appearance  than  the  song  of  the  nightin- 
gale has  to  do  with  the  rising  of  the  moon;  no 
more,  no  less.  Christ  disappointed  as  many  ex- 
pectations as  He  fulfilled.  Bacon  says:  "Some 
strange  symmetry  lies  in  all  beauty,"  and  Christ 
says  of  those  who  are  born  in  the  spirit,  that  is, 
who  are  d}-namic  forces  like  He  Himself,  that  they 
are  like  unto  the  wind  which  "bloweth  where  it 
listeth  and  no  man  can  tell  whence  it  cometh  and 
whither  it  goeth."     That  is  the  reason  Christ  ap- 


64    THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

peals  to  artists  with  such  magic  power.  His  are  the 
many-coloured  elements  of  life;  Mystery,  novelty, 
pathos,  inspiration,  ecstasy,  love.  He  addresses 
those  who  believe  in  miracles  and  He  engenders 
that  mood,  that  disposition  and  mind  by  which 
alone  He  can  be  understood.  The  thought  fills  me 
with  joy,  that,  if  the  essence  of  Christ's  being  is  an 
all-comprehensive  imagination,  the  world  is  made 
of  the  same  material. 

I  said  in  Dorian  Gray  that  the  great  sins  of  the 
world  are  committed  in  the  brain.  The  brain,  in 
fact,  is  the  sole  agent.  We  do  not  realise  that  we 
do  not  see  with  the  eye  and  do  not  hear  with  the 
ear.  Eye  and  ear  are,  in  reality,  only  suitable  con- 
duits for  the  sense-impressions.  The  colour  of 
the  moon,  the  fragrance  of  the  apple,  the  song  of 
the  lark,  exist  in  and  through  the  brain. 

For  some  time  I  have  been  studying,  with  great 
fervour  and  zeal,  the  four  prose-poems  which  tell 
the  story  of  Christ.  On  Christmas  I  succeeded  in 
procuring  a  Greek  Testament,  and  every  morning, 
after  I  had  put  my  cell  in  order  and  cleaned  my 
tin  dishes,  I  read  the  gospels,  about  a  dozen  verses 
which  I  picked  out  at  random.  It  is  a  delightful 
way  of  beginning  the  day.  Every  one  should  do  so, 
even  if  he  leads  a  stormy,  ill-regulated  life.    Con- 


DE  PEOFTTNDIS.  65 

stantly  repeating  the  gospels  at  any  and  all  seasons 
has,  as  it  were,  run  them  into  the  ground  so  that 
their  simplicity,  freshness  and  romantic  charm 
have  been  almost  wholly  lost.  We  hear  them  read 
far  too  often  and  far  too  badly ;  and  too  much  repe- 
tition kills  the  spirit.  But  when  we  turn  to  the 
Greek  Testament  we  feel  as  if  we  stepped  from  a 
close,  dark  room  into  a  garden  of  lilies.  I  derive 
double  pleasure  from  the  thought  that  we  have  in 
the  Greek  text  the  very  words  of  Christ,  the  ipsis- 
sima  verba. 

Formerly  the  opinion  prevailed  that  Christ  spoke 
in  Aramaic.  Even  Eenan  held  this  view.  We  now 
know  that  the  peasants  in  Galilee  used  two  lan- 
guages, like  the  Irish  peasants  of  to-day,  and  that 
Greek  was  the  common  language  of  intercourse  in 
Palestine,  even  throughout  the  whole  Orient.  I 
had  never  been  able  to  reconcile  myself  to  the 
thought  that  we  should  know  Christ's  words  only 
through  the  translation  of  a  translation.  I  think, 
with  rapture,  that  Charmides  might  have  listened 
to  Christ  and  have  conversed  with  Him;  that 
Socrates  and  Plato  might  have  philosophised  with 
Him,  and  that  He  really  said  the  words:  '"Eyoo 
eifxi  6  noifxrfv  6  ja\oV%-  that,  when  He  men- 
tioned the  lilies  in  the  fields,  "who  toil  not  neither 


66    THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAB  WILDE. 

do  they  spin,"  that  these  were  His  exact  words: 
(CKaTajxddsre  rd  xP^va  T°v  aypov  noo5 
avgdvei  •  ov  x07tl^y  ovde  vrfdei";  and  that 
His  last  cry  of  anguish,  according  to  St.  John,  was : 
''TeriXeffTai" — and  nothing  else. 

When  I  read  the  gospels — especially  that  of  St. 
John,  or  whatever  Gnostic  of  the  early  Christian 
era  who  assumed  his  name  and  mantle — I  see  that 
the  foundation  of  all  life,  spiritual  and  material,  is 
the  manner  in  which  pure  imagination  manifests 
itself.  I  further  realise  that  imagination,  "fan- 
tasia," was  to  Christ  merely  a  form  of  love,  and 
that  love  was  lord  and  master,  in  the  fullest  sense 
of  the  word. 

About  six  weeks  ago,  the  physician  allowed  me 
to  have  wheat  bread  at  dinner  instead  of  the  coarse, 
black  or  brown  bread,  the  usual  prison-fare.  Here 
in  prison  it  is  considered  a  delicacy  by  everybody. 
It  means  so  much  to  me  that  after  each  meal  I  care- 
fully gather  the  crumbs  which  remain  on  my  tin 
plate  or  on  the  coarse  cloth  which  I  use  to  cover 
my  table.  I  do  this  not  from  hunger — for  now  I 
get  plenty  to  eat — but  simply  so  that  I  may  not 
waste  anything  that  is  given  me.  One  should  do 
the  same  with  love.  Like  all  fascinating  person- 
alities, Christ  possessed  the  gift  not  only  of  saying 


DE  PROFUXDIS.  67 

beautiful  things  Himself,  but  also  of  making  others 
speak  in  the  language  of  beauty.  I  love  the  story 
which  St.  Mark  tells  us  of  the  Greek  woman  who, 
when  Christ — in  order  to  test  her  faith — told  her 
He  could  not  give  her  the  bread  of  the  children  of 
Israel,  answered:  "The  small  dogs — xvV£*Pta 
— under  the  table  eat  of  the  children's  crumbs." 

Most  people  live  for  love  and  admiration;  we 
should  live  by  love  and  admiration.  If  we  are 
shown  love,  we  should  realise  and  acknowledge  that 
we  are  not  worthy  of  it.  Nobody  really  deserves  to 
be  loved.  The  fact  that  God  loves  man  proves  that 
it  is  in  the  divine  order  of  spiritual  blessings  that 
eternal  love  shall  be  given  to  the  eternally  un- 
worthy. Or,  if  this  sounds  too  severe,  we  may  say 
that  every  one  deserves  love  except  he  who  thinks 
he  is  worthy  of  it.  One  should  receive  the  sacra- 
ment of  love  on  our  knee3,  and  the  "Domine,  non 
sum  dignus"  should  be  on  the  lips  and  in  the  hearts 
of  .those  who  receive  it. 

If  I  should  ever  write  again,  that  is,  produce  a 
work  of  art,  I  would  like  to  express  myself  on — 
and  through — two  themes :  one  is,  "Christ,  the  Her- 
ald of  the  Romantic  Movement  in  Life" ;  the  other 
is,  "The  Life  of  the  Artist  and  the  Art  of  Life." 
The  first,  of  course,  is  exceedingly  tempting;  for  I 


68    THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

find  in  Christ  not  only  the  essentials  of  the  highest 
romantic  type,  but  also  the  accidentals  and  even  the 
sudden  surprises  of  the  romantic  temperament. 
He  was  the  first  to  admonish  man  to  live  the  life 
of  a  flower.  He  coined  the  expression.  The  chil- 
dren were,  in  His  opinion,  the  models  after  which 
we  should  fashion  ourselves.  He  held  them  up  to 
the  parents  as  examples  to  be  followed ;  this  is,  to 
my  mind,  the  main  purpose  of  children,  if  what  is 
perfect  has  a  purpose.  Dante  describes  the  soul  of 
man,  as  it  leaves  the  hand  of  the  Creator,  as  "crying 
and  laughing  like  a  little  child,"  and  Christ,  too, 
was  of  the  opinion  that  the  soul  of  every  human 
being  should  be  a  "guisa  di  f  anciulla  che  piangendo 
e  redendo  pargoleggia." 

He  knew  that  life  meant  change,  flow,  action, 
and  that  it  would  be  death  if  one  should  try  to 
force  it  into  an  unyielding  form.  He  also  realised 
that  men  should  not  take  too  seriously  the  material 
things  of  life,  that  is,  spend  too  much  thought  on 
them;  that  to  be  unpractical  and  unworldly  was  a 
sign  of  greatness.  The  birds  in  the  sky  did  not 
worry  about  the  morrow,  why  should  men?  Is  it 
not  exquisite  when  He  says :  "Take  no  thought  for 
the  morrow.  Is  not  the  life  more  than  meat,  and 
the  body  more  than  raiment?"     A  Greek  might 


DE  PROFUNDIS.  69 

have  put  the  last  question,  it  expresses  so  fully 
Greek  thought  and  feeling.  But  Christ  alone  could 
have  asked  both  questions  and  comprised  in  both 
the  sum  total  of  life. 

Christ's  ethical  teaching  is,  as  it  should  be,  based 
on  pity,  compassion,  sympathy.  If  He  had  said 
nothing  else  but:  "Her  sins,  which  are  many,  are 
forgiven ;  for  she  loved  much,"  it  would  have  been 
worth  while  dying  for  such  words.  His  justice  is — 
just  what  justice  should  be — poetical  justice.  The 
beggar  enters  the  kingdom  of  heaven  because  he  has 
been  unfortunate ;  I  can  imagine  no  better  reason. 
Those  who  work  but  one  hour  in  the  vineyard  in 
the  cool  of  the  evening  receive  just  as  much  as 
those  who  toiled  all  day  in  the  heat  of  the  sun. 
And  why  not?  Probably  none  of  them  really  de- 
served anything  at  all ;  or  the  former  were  workers 
of  a  different  kind. 

Christ  had  no  patience  with  dull,  deadening,  me- 
chanical systems  which  look  upon  human  beings 
as  if  they  were  mere  things,  and,  consequently, 
treat  them  all  alike.  Laws  He  did  not  acknowl- 
edge, only  exceptions,  as  if  everybody  and  every- 
thing in  the  world  was  unlike  everybody  or  every- 
thing else.  That  which  is  the  keynote  in  romantic 
art,  was  for  Christ  the  natural  basis  of  real  life. 


70    THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

He  knew  no  oilier  one.  When  mey  brought  a 
woman  before  Him  who  had  been  taken  in  adultery 
and  pointed  out  to  Him  the  sentence  which  the 
law  prescribed  in  such  a  case,  and  asked  Him  what, 
in  His  opinion,  should  be  done,  He  wrote,  with  his 
finger,  upon  the  ground,  as  if  He  did  not  hear  their 
question,  and  when  they  insisted  upon  an  answer 
He  looked  up  and  said :  "He  that  is  without  sin 
among  you,  let  him  first  cast  a  stone  at  her/'  It 
was  worth  while  living  to  have  said  such  words. 

Like  all  poets,  Christ  loved  the  unlearned.  He 
knew  that  in  the  soul  of  an  ignorant  man  there  is 
always  room  for  a  great  idea.  But  He  could  not 
endure  dullards  or  stupid  people,  especially  those 
whom  education  and  learning  had  made  stupid: 
people  whose  heads  are  full  of  thoughts  which  they 
do  not  understand — a  type  which  has  been  largely 
developed  in  our  own  times  and  which  Christ  de- 
scribes as  the  kind  of  man  who  possesses  the  key  to 
knowledge,  but  cannot  use  it  and  therefore  will  not 
allow  any  one  else  to  use  it,  even  if — in  another's 
hand — it  could  open  the  gate  to  the  kingdom  of 
God! 

He  waged  war  chiefly  against  the  Philistines. 
Every  child  of  light  has  to  do  the  same.  Philistin- 
ism was  the  keynote  of  His  age  and  the  community 


DE  PROFUNDIS.  71 

in  which  He  lived.  The  Jews  of  Jerusalem,  in 
Christ's  time,  are  worthy  counterparts  of  the  Brit- 
ish Philistines  of  our  times,  in  their  clumsy  im- 
penetrability, their  stupid  respectability7,  their  tire- 
some orthodoxy,  their  admiration  for  the  idols  of 
the  day,  their  devotion  to  the  exclusive  pursuit  of 
coarse,  material  things,  their  preposterous  self- 
sufficiency  and  self-importance.  Christ  often  de- 
rided the  "whited  sepulchres"  of  respectability  and 
fixed  this  designation  for  all  time.  He  treated 
worldly  success  as  an  absolutely  negative  quantity ; 
He  saw  nothing  in  it.  He  looked  upon  riches  as 
a  drawback  to  a  man.  He  did  not  believe  that  life 
should  be  sacrificed  to  any  philosophical  or  ethical 
system.  He  taught  that  forms  and  customs  existed 
for  the  sake  of  man,  not  man  for  the  sake  of  cus- 
toms and  systems.  He  considered  the  principles 
preached  by  the  Sabbatarians  futile  and  useless. 
With  utmost  and  unrelenting  contempt  He  scourged 
cold-hearted  philanthropy,  the  showy  spectacle  of 
public  charity  and  charitable  institutions  and  those 
formalities  of  charity  which  are  so  dear  to  our 
middle  classes. 

What  we  commonly  call  an  orthodox  is  one  who 
says  "Yes"  and  "Amen"  without  troubling  his 
mind  very  much  about  what  he  believes;  but  the 


72    THE  WHITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

orthodox  Jews  of  old  Jerusalem  were  tyrants,  ready 
to  strike  down  those  who  differed  from  them.  Christ 
proved  that  the  spirit,  not  the  creed,  was  the  es- 
sential element.  He  delighted  in  proving  to 
them  that  while  they  were  unceasingly  reading 
the  law  and  the  prophets,  they,  in  reality,  had 
not  the  faintest  conception  of  what  either  meant. 
In  opposition  to  their  fixed  humdrum  performance 
of  prescribed  duties  regarding  the  tithing  of  each 
day,  Christ  taught  them  how  important  it  was  to 
live  for  the  moment.  Those  whom  He  freed  from 
the  bondage  of  their  sins,  were  freed  for  the  sake 
of  the  beauty  which  was  in  store  for  them  in  their 
lives.  When  Mary  Magdalen  saw  Christ,  she  broke 
the  precious  cruse  of  alabaster  given  her  by  one  of 
her  seven  lovers  and  poured  the  fragrant  ointment 
over  His  tired,  dust-covered  feet;  for  the  sake  of 
this  one  moment  she  sits,  for  all  time,  in  Paradise, 
with  Ruth  and  Beatrice,  under  an  arbour  garlanded 
with  snow-white  roses. 

Christ  softly  admonishes  and  reminds  us  that 
every  moment  is  beautiful,  that  the  soul  should 
always  be  prepared  to  receive  the  bridegroom  and 
should  always  listen  for  the  voice  of  the  lover. 

Philistinism  is  simply  that  part  of  man  which 
is  not  illumined  by  imagination.    Christ  considers 


DE  PKOFUNDIS.  73 

all  the  lovely  influences  of  life  degrees  of  light: 
imagination  itself  is  the  world-light,  to  (pais  tov 
Xoffpov;  the  world  has  been  created  by  it,  and 
yet  the  world  cannot  grasp  it,  because  imagination 
is  only  a  revelation  of  love,  and  the  ability  to  love 
distinguishes  one  creature  from  another. 

Christ  is  most  romantic — in  the  sense  of  being 
most  real — when  He  deals  with  the  sinner.  The 
world  had  always  loved  and  revered  the  saint  as 
being  on  the  next  highest  grade  towards  the  per- 
fection of  God.  Christ,  through  His  divine  in- 
stinct, seems  to  have  always  loved  the  sinner  as 
representing  the  next  highest  type  towards  the  per- 
fection of  man.  His  chief  aim  was  not  to  better 
people,  just  as  little  as  it  was  His  main  endeavour 
to  lessen  suffering.  He  did  not  strive  to  transform 
an  interesting  thief  into  a  tediously  respectable 
man.  He  would  have  thought  little  of  a  society  for 
the  aid  of  criminals  and  similar  modern  move- 
ments. To  convert  a  publican  into  a  Pharisee 
would  not  have  appealed  to  Christ  as  a  heroic 
achievement.  But  He  looked  upon  sin  and  suffering 
as  beautiful  and  sacred  in  themselves,  as  steps  to- 
wards perfection,  in  a  manner  which  we  do  not  yet 
understand. 

I  know  fully  well  this  sounds  like  dangerous 


74    THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

teaching.  And  it  is  so.  All  great  ideas  are  dan- 
gerous. Beyond  a  doubt  this  was  Christ's  belief. 
Of  course,  the  sinner  must  repent.  But  why? 
Simply  because  he  otherwise  would  not  be  able 
to  comprehend,  to  realise  what  he  had  done.  The 
moment  of  repentance  is  the  moment  of  consecra- 
tion. Still  more:  it  is  the  means  by  which  man 
may  change  his  past.  The  Greeks  held  this  to  be 
impossible.  In  their  gnomes  and  aphorisms  they 
tell  us :  "Not  even  the  gods  can  change  the  past." 
Christ  proved  that  the  commonest  sinner  is  able 
to  do  this ;  that,  in  fact,  it  was  the  only  thing  he 
could  do.  If  Christ  had  been  asked,  He  would, 
without  doubt,  have  said — I  am  absolutely  sure 
of  it — that  the  prodigal  son,  after  he  had  squan- 
dered his  substance  with  harlots,  herded  the  rich 
man's  swine,  suffered  hunger  and  sighed  for  the 
husks  which  they  ate,  turned  all  these  acts  into 
beautiful,  sacred  moments  when  he  fell  on  his  knees 
and  wept. 

Most  men  find  it  hard  to  grasp  this  thought. 
Perhaps  one  must  have  suffered  imprisonment  to 
understand  it ;  if  so,  it  pays  to  have  been  in  prison. 

Christ's  personality  is  absolutely  unique.  There 
were  Christians  before  Christ,  as  the  break  of  day 
is  heralded  by  dim,  deceptive  rays  of  light,  as  the 


DE  PKOFUKDIS.  75 

sun  shining  suddenly  and  brightly  on  wintry  days 
deceives  the  careful  crocus  and  leads  it  to  spend 
its  gold  before  its  time,  as  many  a  foolish  bird  calls 
to  his  mate  to  build  their  nest  on  bare  twigs.  For 
this  we  should  be  grateful.  Unfortunately,  there 
have  been  no  Christians  since  Christ — with  one 
exception:  Francis  of  Assisi.  But  to  him  God 
had  given  the  soul  of  a  poet,  for  he  had,  when  he 
was  quite  young,  in  mystical  union,  chosen  poverty 
as  his  bride ;  with  the  soul  of  a  poet  and  the  body  of 
a  beggar  he  found,  without  any  difficulty,  the  road 
to  perfection.  He  understood  Christ,  and  so  be- 
came like  Him.  We  do  not  need  to  be  told  by  the 
Liber  Conformitatum  that  the  life  of  St.  Francis 
was  the  true  Imitatio  Christi;  that  his  life  was 
a  poem  compared  with  which  the  book  of  that  name 
is  mere  prose.  Indeed,  this  is,  primarily  and  ul- 
timately, the  charm  which  emanates  from  Christ: 
He  completely  resembles  a  perfect  work  of  art.  He 
really  does  not  teach  us  anything  at  all;  but  by 
coming  into  His  presence,  by  associating  with  Him, 
we  become  something.  And  every  one  is  predes- 
tined to  come  into  touch  with  Christ.  Once,  at 
least,  in  his  life  each  one  of  us  walks  with  Christ 
on  the  road  to  Emmaus.    .    .    . 

As  to  the  other  theme,  "The  Life  of  the  Artist 


76    THE  WHITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

and  the  Art  of  Life,"  one  will,  no  doubt,  find  it 
strange  that  I  should  select  it  for  my  subject. 
People  will  point  to  the  prison  in  Eeading  and  say : 
"That's  the  place  to  which  the  life  of  the  artist 
leads."  Well,  it  might  lead  one  to  worse  places. 
The  Philistines,  to  whom  life  is  nothing  but 
cunning  speculation,  whose  success  depends  on  a 
careful  calculation  of  means  and  ways,  know  always 
where  to  go,  and  always  go  there.  They  start  with 
the  ideal  aim  to  become  servants  of  the  church,  and, 
no  matter  to  what  post  they  are  assigned,  they 
manage  to  succeed  in  that  capacity,  nothing  more. 
A  man  who  works  hard  to  make  something  out  of 
himself  which  is  not  within  him — a  member  of  Par- 
liament, a  prosperous  green-grocer,  a  prominent 
lawyer,  a  judge,  or  something  similar  and  equally 
tedious  and  tiresome — will  always  see  his  efforts 
crowned  by  success.  And  that  is  his  punishment. 
He  who  wants  a  mask  must  wear  it.  It  is  quite 
different  with  those  in  whom  the  creative  force  of 
life  is  active  and  becomes  manifest.  Men  whose 
sole  aim  is  to  unfold  and  develop  their  ego  never 
know  whither  the  road  leads  them.  The  knowledge 
that  the  soul  of  man  is  fathomless  is  the  acme  of 
wisdom.  We  ourselves  are  the  arch-secret.  Though 
we  may  have  weighed  the  sun  and  measured  the 


DE  PKOFUNDIS.  77 

orbit  of  the  moon  and  marked  the  places  of  all  the 
stars  in  the  seven  heavens,  one  thing  remains  un- 
solved— ourselves.  Who  can  calculate  the  orbit  of 
his  soul?  When  the  son  went  out  to  seek  his 
father's  asses,  he  did  not  know  that  a  man  of  God 
was  waiting  to  anoint  him  king  and  that  his  soul 
was  already  the  soul  of  a  king.  I  hope  and  trust  I 
may  live  long  enough  to  produce  such  works  of  art 
that  I  can  say  at  the  end  of  my  days :  "Now  you 
may  see  where  the  life  of  an  artist  leads  him." 

Among  the  most  perfect  lives  that  have  come 
under  my  observation  are  the  lives  of  Verlaine  and 
of  Prince  Krapotkin.  Both  are  men  who  have  ex- 
perienced prison-life :  Verlaine,  the  only  Christian 
poet  since  Dante ;  the  other,  a  man  with  the  soul  of 
that  beautiful,  white  Christ  whom  Eussia  is  des- 
tined to  give  birth  to.  During  the  past  seven  or 
eight  months,  in  spite  of  many  great  annoyances 
to  which  the  outside  world  has  subjected  me,  I 
have  kept  in  close  touch  with  a  new  spirit,  which 
has  taken  possession  of  men  and  things  within 
these  prison  walls,  and  which  has  benefited  me  more 
than  I  can  express  in  words.  During  the  first  year 
of  my  imprisonment,  as  far  as  I  remember,  I  did 
little  more  than  to  wring  my  hands  in  impotent  de- 
spair and  to  cry  out :  "What  end,  what  terrible  end 


78    THE  WHITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

this  is!"  Now  I  try  to  say  to  myself,  and  I  do 
say  it,  when  I  do  not  torment  myself,  really  and 
sincerely :  "What  a  beginning,  what  a  glorious  be- 
ginning this  is  \"  May  it  truly  become  such.  If 
it  ever  turns  out  to  be  so,  I  will  owe  much  to  this 
new  person  who  has  changed  the  life  of  every  man 
in  this  prison.  The  things  in  themselves  are  of 
no  consequence — let  us,  for  once  at  least,  be  grate- 
ful to  philosophy  for  something  it  has  taught  us: 
I  do  not  mean  its  tenets,  for  they  are  fashioned 
according  to  immutable  cast-iron  rules,  but  the 
spirit  which  dwells  within  them.  You  may  be  able 
to  understand  this  if  I  assure  you  that  had  I  been 
freed  last  May,  as  I  so  ardently  desired,  I  would 
have  left  this  place  in  disgust  and  filled  with  such 
bitter  hatred  of  all  the  prison  officers  that  it  would 
have  poisoned  my  life.  I  had  to  spend  one  more 
year  in  this  place,  but,  with  us  all,  humanity  had 
entered  this  prison,  and  when  I  am  freed  I  shall  al- 
ways remember  the  great  kindnesses  which  I  have 
been  shown  here  by  all,  and  on  the  day  of  my  dis- 
charge I  shall  give  thanks  to  many  and  ask  them, 
on  my  own  part,  not  to  forget  me. 

The  way  prisons  are  managed  is  wrong,  through 
and  through.  I  would  give  a  great  deal,  all,  if  I 
could  later  effect  a  change.     I  purpose  trying  it. 


DE  PEOFUNDIS.  79 

Nothing  in  the  world  is  so  wrong  that  the  spirit  of 
humanity,  which  is  the  spirit  of  love,  the  spirit  of 
Christ,  that  is  not  to  he  looked  for  in  churches, 
could  not  at  least  make  bearable,  though  one  may 
not  be  able  to  set  it  right. 

I  further  know  that  many  things  are  waiting  for 
me  out  there  which  will  fill  me  with  rapture :  from 
that  which  St.  Francis  of  Assisi  calls  "my  brother, 
the  wind,"  and  "my  sister,  the  water" — both  are 
things  of  joy — to  the  show-windows  of  the  shops 
and  the  sunsets  in  big  cities.  If  I  should  be  asked 
to  make  a  list  of  all  that  is  still  treasured  within 
me,  and  for  me,  I  would  not  know  how  to  end  it : 
for,  truly,  God  has  created  the  world  for  me  as 
much  as  for  any  one  else. 

Perhaps  I  shall  leave  here  possessed  of  some- 
thing I  did  not  know  of  before.  I  need  not  say 
that  an  ethical  change  is,  for  me,  as  absurd  and 
preposterous  as  a  religious  conversion.  While  the 
concocting  of  plans  regarding  one's  own  reform 
would  be  a  proof  of  ignorance  and  hypocrisy,  it  is 
the  privilege  of  one  who  has  suffered  to  gain  a 
deeper  insight  into  one's  self.  This,  I  think,  I  can 
claim  for  myself.  If,  after  my  release,  one  of  my 
friends  should  give  a  party  of  some  kind  and  not 
invite  me,  it  would  not  affect  me  in  the  least.    I 


80    THE  WHITINGS  OF  OSCAE  WILDE. 

can  be  happy,  though  I  be  alone.  Who  should  not 
be  happy  if  he  enjoys  liberty,  flowers,  books  and  the 
moon?  Besides,  feasts  are  nothing  any  longer  to 
me.  I  have  given  too  many  myself  to  find  any 
pleasure  or  interest  in  them.  This  phase  of  life 
is  behind  me — very  fortunately,  I  should  like  to 
say.  But  if,  after  my  release,  one  of  my  friends 
should  be  afflicted  with  any  care  or  sorrow,  and 
should  refuse  to  share  it  with  me,  this  I  should  re- 
sent ;  if  he  should,  again  and  again,  close  his  door 
on  me,  I  would,  again  and  again,  beg  to  be  ad- 
mitted to  share  what  I  have  a  right  to.  If  he 
should  deem  me  unworthy,  unfit  to  weep  with  him, 
I  would  consider  it  the  most  cruel  humiliation,  the 
most  horrid  manner,  in  which  he  could  inflict  dis- 
grace upon  me.  But  this  could  never  happen.  I 
have  a  supreme  right  to  share  suffering  with  any 
one ;  he  who  can  realise  the  loveliness  of  the  world, 
share  its  sorrows  and  can  understand  what  is  so 
wonderful  in  both,  is  in  closest  touch  with  the  di- 
vine and  has  come  as  near  the  understanding  of  the 
divine  secret  as  man  possibly  can. 

I  hope  that  there  may  enter  into  my  art  not  less 
than  into  my  life  a  deeper  note,  a  note  of  greater 
unity  of  all  the  emotions  and  greater  directness  and 
spontaneity.     Intensity,  not  extensiveness,  is  the 


DE  PEOFUXDIS.  81 

keynote  and  goal  of  modern  art.  Art  is  not  con- 
cerned any  longer  with  the  normal,  the  typical,  but 
with  the  exceptional.  I  cannot  reproduce  my  sor- 
rows in  the  form  in  which  they  manifested  them- 
selves; art  begins  where  imitation  stops.  But  a 
new  element  must  be  infused  into  my  work,  a  fuller 
conception,  or  words  of  richer  melody,  rarer  colour 
effects,  more  simple  architectural  structure,  and  in 
any  case,  aesthetic  values. 

When  Marsyas  had  been  pulled  "out  of  the 
sheath  of  his  limbs" — dalla  vagina  delle  membra 
sue — to  use  one  of  Dante's  most  terrible,  Tacitean 
metaphors,  there  was  an  end  to  his  singing,  the 
Greeks  tell  us.  Apollo  had  become  the  victor ;  the 
shepherd's  flute  had  been  vanquished  by  the  lyre. 
But,  maybe,  the  Greeks  are  mistaken.  I  often  hear 
the  voice  of  Marsyas  in  modern  art,  bitter  in  Bau- 
delaire, sweet  and  plaintive  in  Lamartine,  mys- 
terious in  Verlaine.  It  is  in  the  tardy  resolutions 
of  Chopin's  music;  in  the  displeasure  reflected, 
again  and  again,  on  the  faces  of  Burne-Jones' 
women.  Even  Matthew  Arnold  re-echoes  at  times 
the  voice  of  Marysas ;  it  can  be  heard  in  the  mourn- 
ful undertone  of  his  verses,  which  are  not  free  of 
doubt  and  anguish,  though  his  poem  Collides  sings 
in  clear  tones  of  lyric  beauty  of  the  "triumph  of 


82    THE  WEITIXGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

the  sweet,  impressive  lyre"  and  the  "famous,  final 
victory,"  though  he  followed  both  Goethe  and 
Wordsworth  as  his  masters.  And  when  he  laments 
the  fate  of  Thyrsis  or  sings  about  the  Scholar 
Gipsy  he  must  needs  pipe  the  lay  upon  the  shep- 
herd's flute.  But  if  Phrygian  faun  has  been  si- 
lenced, I  cannot  be.  I  must  express  myself  by  the 
same  innate  force  by  which  the  blackened  branches, 
which  reach  over  the  prison  walls  and  move  rest- 
lessly in  the  wind,  are  impelled  to  bring  forth 
leaves  and  blossoms.  A  wide  chasm  yawns  between 
my  art  and  the  world,  but  not  between  art  and 
myself ;  at  least,  I  hope  not.  To  every  one  of  us  a 
different  fate  has  been  allotted :  liberty,  joy,  pleas- 
ure, ease.  My  share  is :  public  disgrace,  long  im- 
prisonment, misery,  bankruptcy,  dishonour;  yet  I 
am  not  worthy  of  it — not  yet,  at  least. 

I  remember  having  said  that  I  could  appreciate 
a  real  tragedy  if  it  approached  me  in  the  guise  of  a 
noble  sorrow  and  cloaked  in  purple,  but  that  mod- 
ern art  committed  the  horrible  crime  of  forcing 
tragedy  to  appear  in  the  garb  of  comedy,  so  that 
what  was  great  and  noble  appeared  commonplace, 
grotesque  and  without  distinction.  What  I  said 
about  this  modern  dramatic  art  holds  good  in  real 
life ;  it  has  always  been  so.    It  has  often  been  as- 


DE  PEOFUXDIS.  83 

serted  that  all  martyrdom  appears  vulgar  to  the 
spectator.  The  nineteenth  century  is  no  exception 
to  this  rule.  Everything  about  my  own  tragedy 
has  been  hideous,  vulgar,  repulsive,  without  dis- 
tinction. Our  dress  makes  us  appear  grotesque. 
We  are  the  harlequins  of  suffering.  We  are  clowns, 
with  broken  hearts.  It  seems  to  be  our  special  des- 
tiny to  arouse  laughter. 

They  brought  me  here  from  London  on  the  13th 
of  November,  1895.  From  two  o'clock  until  half- 
past  two  I  was  forced  to  stand  on  the  middle  plat- 
form at  Clapham  Junction,  handcuffed  and  in  the 
prisoner's  garb,  exposed  to  the  gaze  of  the  crowd. 
I  had  been  taken  from  the  prison  infirmary,  just  as 
I  was,  without  warning.  Of  all  the  outcasts,  I,  no 
doubt,  was  the  most  grotesque  to  look  at.  The 
people  laughed  when  they  saw  me.  Every  train 
that  arrived  increased  the  curious  crowd  of  specta- 
tors. Their  mirth  was  boundless.  This  was  quite 
natural,  before  they  knew  who  I  was.  But  when 
they  learned  it  they  laughed  still  more.  There  I 
stood  for  half  an  hour  in  the  grey  November  rain, 
surrounded  by  a  howling  mob.  For  a  whole  year 
afterward  I  wept  bitterly  every  day  at  the  same 
hour.  This  is  not  as  tragic  as  it  probably  sounds  to 
you.    To  shed  tears  is  part  of  the  daily  routine  of 


84    THE  WHITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

those  who  are  behind  prison-bars.  A  day  in  prison 
when  one  does  not  weep  is  a  day  when  one's  heart 
grows  harder,  not  a  day  when  one's  heart  is  happy. 
Now  I  feel  sorry  for  the  people  who  laughed  at  me 
then  more  than  I  pity  myself.  When  they  saw  me 
I  was  not  on  a  pedestal,  but  at  the  pillory.  Wholly 
unimaginative  beings  care  only  for  people  posing 
on  a  pedestal.  But  a  pedestal  may  be  a  very  un- 
real thing;  the  pillory,  however,  is  a  horrible 
reality.  Those  persons  should  have  interpreted 
my  suffering  better.  I  have  said  before  that  behind 
suffering  you  still  find  suffering.  It  would  be 
more  correct  to  say:  behind  suffering  we  always 
find  hidden — a  soul.  And  to  deride  a  soul  in  an- 
guish is  fiendish.  The  life  of  any  one  capable  of 
doing  this  is  devoid  of  beauty.  In  the  strangely 
simple  economy  of  the  world  one  receives  only  that 
which  one  gives.  Can  one  have  any  other  feeling 
than  contempt  for  those  who  possess  not  enough 
power  of  imagination  to  penetrate  the  shell  of 
things  and  to  sympathise  with  their  fellows? 

I  describe  this  experience  on  my  way  to  prison 
only  so  that  you  may  clearly  see  how  difficult  it  was 
for  me  to  derive  from  my  punishment  any  other 
feeling  than  that  of  embitterment  and  hatred.  Yet 
I  must  try  to  overcome  these  feelings,  and  now  and 


DE  PROFUNDIS.  85 

then  I  have  moments  of  resignation  and  submis- 
sion. In  a  single  bud  the  whole  spring  may  be 
hidden,  and  the  nest  of  the  lark  in  the  furrows  of 
the  field  may  contain  all  the  joy  which  will  herald 
the  approach  of  many  a  glorious  sunrise.  It  may 
be  that  all  the  beauty  which  life  holds  in  store  for 
me  is  contained  potentially  in  one  moment  of  sub- 
mission, humiliation  and  humility.  However  this 
may  be,  I  can  only  progress  along  the  line  of  the 
development  of  my  true  self  and  show  myself 
worthy  of  all  that  happened  to  me  by  accepting  it 
humbly  and  without  a  murmur. 

They  used  to  say  of  me  that  I  had  too  much  in- 
dividualism; that  I  was  too  self-centred.  I  must 
have  become  still  more  so.  I  must,  in  future,  much 
more  than  I  ever  did,  draw  from  my  inner  self 
and  ask  and  accept  less  from  the  world.  My  crime 
was,  in  reality,  not  the  consequence  of  too  great  an 
individualism,  but  rather  because  I  did  not  possess 
enough  individuality.  The  one  shameful,  unpar- 
donable and,  for  all  time,  contemptible  act  of  my 
life  was  in  asking  society  for  help  and  protec- 
tion. 

It  was  bad  enough — from  an  individualistic 
point  of  view — to  seek  such  protection;  but  what 
excuse  can  ever  be  adduced  in  my  favour  ?    As  soon 


86    THE  WEITI^GS  OF  OSCAE  WILDE. 

as  I  had  set  in  motion  the  machinery  of  society,  it 
naturally  turned  against  me  and  said :  "You  have 
all  this  time  lived  in  violation  of  my  laws  and  now 
you  claim  their  protection?  You  will  have  to  feel 
their  full  severity.  You  must  suffer  the  conse- 
quences of  your  conduct."  The  result  is  that  I  am 
here  in  prison.  During  the  course  of  three  trials 
I  have  felt  keenly  the  irony  and  disgrace  of  my 
position. 

Surely,  never  before  was  a  man  ruined  so  shame- 
fully and  by  such  shameful  means  as  I  was.  I 
said  somewhere  in  Dorian  Gray:  "One  cannot  be 
too  careful  in  the  choice  of  one's  enemies."  I  never 
dreamed  that  I  should  some  day  become  a  pariah 
through  pariahs.  This  is  the  reason  that  I  despise 
myself. 

Incapacity  to  understand  art  does  not  make  a 
man  a  Philistine.  Interesting  people,  for  instance, 
fishermen,  shepherds,  ploughmen,  farmers  and  the 
like,  know  nothing  of  art,  and  yet  they  are  the 
salt  of  the  earth.  He  is  a  genuine  Philistine  who 
aids  and  abets  the  clumsy,  burdensome,  blind,  me- 
chanical forces  of  society  without  recognising,  even 
if  it  crosses  his  path,  the  dynamic  force  in  a  man 
or  a  movement.  One  has  blamed  me  terribly  be- 
cause I  invited  vicious,  depraved,  human  parasites 


DE  PKOFUNDIS.  87 

to  my  table  and  that  I  found  pleasure  in  their 
company.  Yet  looking  at  them  from  the  viewpoint 
of  an  artist,  from  which  I  approached  them,  they 
were  to  me  like  highly  exciting  stimulants.  It 
was  as  if  one  caroused  with  panthers.  I  felt  like 
a  snake-charmer  when  he  tries  to  make  the  cobra 
rise  from  the  motley  cloth  or  the  wicker-basket 
and  wave  her  hood  in  the  air,  like  a  plant  sway- 
ing in  a  flowing  stream.  They  were,  to  my  mind, 
the  most  glittering  of  all  the  gilded  snakes,  and 
their  poison  was  but  a  part  of  their  perfect  organ- 
ism, and  they  were  highly  interesting.  What  I  am 
ashamed  of  is  the  horrid  Philistine  atmosphere 
into  which  I  was  dragged.  My  place  as  an  artist 
was  at  the  side  of  Ariel;  I  lowered  myself  to 
wrestle  with  Caliban.  Instead  of  writing,  in  beau- 
tiful and  musical  language,  works  like  Salome,  the 
Florentine  Tragedy  and  La  Sainte  Courtlsane,  I 
felt  obliged  to  concoct  and  send  out  long-winded 
letters,  stuffed  with  legal  lore.  I  seemed  impelled 
to  seek  protection  from  a  system  I  had  ever 
shunned,  a  system  noted  for  its  infamous  warfare 
against  life.  The  elder  Dumas,  Cellini,  Goya, 
Edgar  Allan  Poe,  Baudelaire,  would  have  done  ex- 
actly the  same.    .    .    . 

A  good  friend  of  mine,  of  ten  years'  standing, 


88    THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

visited  me  not  long  ago  and  assured  me  that  he  did 
not  believe  a  single  word  of  all  they  had  laid 
against  me ;  he  gave  me  to  understand  that  he  was 
convinced  of  my  innocence,  and  that  I  was  the  vic- 
tim of  a  base  conspiracy.  I  burst  in  tears  when 
he  spoke  thus  to  me,  and  told  him  that,  indeed, 
much  I  was  accused  of  was  absolutely  untrue  and 
had  maliciously  been  charged  against  me,  but  that, 
on  the  other  hand,  my  life  had  been  full  of  pea- 
verse  pleasures  and  strange  passions.  I  added  that 
unless  he  looked  this  fact  squarely  in  the  face  and 
accepted  it  and  became  reconciled  to  it  I  could  not 
continue  being  his  friend  or  would  ever  again  care 
for  his  society.  It  was  a  terrible  blow  for  him; 
but  we  are  still  friends,  and  I  have  not  retained  his 
friendship  by  false  pretences.  To  speak  the  truth 
may  be  painful,  but  to  be  forced  to  lie  is  worse. 

During  my  last  trial,  as  I  sat  on  the  criminal's 
bench  listening  to  Lockwood's  crushing  accusation, 
his  speech  sounded  like  a  terse  passage  from  Taci- 
tus, a  verse  of  Dante,  one  of  Savonarola's  fiery 
philippics  against  the  popes.  I  felt  disgusted  with 
what  I  had  to  listen  to.  Suddenly  the  thought 
came  to  me:  "How  grand  this  would  sound  if  I 
said  all  this  about  my  own  self!"  And  there  it 
dawned  upon  me  that  what  is  said  matters  nothing ; 


DE  PKOFUNDIS.  89 

that  everything  depends  on  who  says  it.  The  su- 
preme moment  of  a  man's  life — of  this  I  have  not 
the  slightest  doubt — is  the  moment  when  he  kneels 
down  in  the  dust,  strikes  his  breast  and  makes  a 
full  confession  of  all  his  sins. 

The  strength  of  our  sensations,  our  feelings — as 
I  say  in  Intentions — is  as  limited  in  its  extent  and 
duration  as  the  manifestations  of  physical  energy. 
The  small  cup,  which  is  to  contain  a  certain 
amount,  can  hold  just  so  much  and  no  more, 
though  all  the  casks  of  Burgundy  be  filled  to  the 
brim  with  purple  wine,  and  the  wine-treaders  stand 
up  to  their  knees  in  grapes  grown  on  the  sunny, 
stony  hills  of  Spain.  No  error  has  so  widely 
spread  as  the  belief  that  people  who  cause  or  oc- 
casion great  tragedies  share  the  feelings  aroused 
in  others  by  the  tragic  situation;  to  expect  this 
from  them  is  a  fatal  error.  The  martyr,  perhaps, 
in  his  "garment  of  flame,"  sees  the  face  of  God, 
but  to  him  who  piles  up  the  faggots  or  pokes  the 
burning  pile  so  that  the  wind  may  fan  the  fire  to 
greater  fury  the  whole  scene  means  no  more  than 
the  killing  of  an  ox  means  to  the  butcher,  the 
cutting  of  a  tree  to  the  charcoal-burner  in  the 
forest,  or  to  the  mower  when  his  scythe  kills  a 
flower  blooming  in  the  grass.    Great  emotions  are 


90     THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

only  for  great  souls,  and  great  events  can  be  ap- 
preciated only  by  those  who  can  rise  to  their  height. 

Looked  at  from  the  viewpoint  of  an  artist,  I 
know  of  nothing  more  incomparable,  more  stimu- 
lating and  subtly  suggestive  than  the  manner  in 
which  Shakespeare  portrays  Rosencrans  and  Guild- 
enstern.  They  are  Hamlet's  university  friends ;  they 
have  been  his  companions.  They  bring  with  them 
the  memory  of  happy  days.  They  meet  Hamlet 
when  he  is  staggering  under  the  weight  of  a  task 
unbearable  to  a  man  of  his  disposition.  His  dead 
father  has  risen,  armed,  from  the  grave  to  tax 
him  with  a  mission  too  great,  and,  at  the  same 
time,  beneath  him.  Hamlet  is  a  dreamer  and  he 
is  called  upon  to  act !  He  has  the  temperament  of 
a  poet,  and  he  is  asked  to  link  together,  in  the 
common  fashion,  cause  and  effect,  to  wrestle  with 
practical  life,  of  which  he  is  ignorant,  not  with  life 
in  its  ideal  aspect,  with  which  he  is  familiar.  He 
cannot  reach  a  decision,  and  his  madness  consists 
in  feigning  madness. 

Brutus  uses  madness  as  a  cloak  to  hide  beneath  it 
the  sword  of  his  purpose,  the  dagger  of  his  resolu- 
tion; Hamlet's  madness  is  only  as  a  mask  for  his 
weakness,  his  indecision.  He  puts  off  action  by 
playing  a  part  and  making  witty  speeches.     He 


DE  PEOFUNDIS.  91 

constantly  toys  with  it,  as  an  artist  does  with  a 
theory.  He  watches  his  own  strange  antics  and 
listens  to  his  own  discourses,  though  he  knows  they 
are  only  "words,  words,  words/'  Instead  of  trying 
to  be  the  hero  of  his  own  history,  he  endeavours  to 
become  the  spectator  of  his  own  tragedy.  He  be- 
lieves in  nothing,  himself  included,  and  yet  his 
doubts  avail  him  nothing  since  they  do  not  spring 
from  philosophical  scepticism,  but  from  a  will  at 
war  with  itself.  Of  all  this,  Guildenstern  and  Bo- 
sencrans  understand  nothing.  They  bow  and  smirk 
and  smile,  and  what  one  says  the  other  echoes. 
When  Hamlet,  at  last,  catches  the  "conscience  of 
the  king"  by  the  fancied  story  of  the  play  within 
the  play,  and  causes  him  to  leave  his  throne  in  ter- 
ror, Guildenstern  and  Eosencrans  see  in  his  con- 
duct, at  the  most,  a  rather  painful  breach  of  court 
etiquette.  So  far  and  no  farther  can  they  "view 
the  spectacle  of  life  through  the  medium  of  their 
emotions."  They  are  after  his  secret,  but  can  never 
learn  it.  Nor  would  it  be  of  any  use  to  reveal  it  to 
them.  They  are  the  small  cups  which  can  contain 
just  so  much  and  no  more. 

Towards  the  end  of  the  play  we  are  led  to  sur- 
mise that,  involved  in  the  rascally  scheme  of  the 
king  to  rid  himself  of  Hamlet,  they  meet — or  are 


/ 


92    THE  WHITINGS  OF  OSCAE  WILDE. 

to  meet — a  sudden,  violent  death.  But  fellows  of 
their  calibre  are  not  worthy  of  such  a  tragic  end. 
They  never  die.    Horatio,  who 

"Absents  himself  from  felicity  awhile 
And  in  this  harsh  world  draws  his  breath  in  pain," 

in  order  to  defend  Hamlet  and  his  cause — 
Horatio  dies,  though  not  before  the  eyes  of  the 
spectators,  and  leaves  no  brother  behind.  But  Guil- 
denstern  and  Rosencrans  are  as  immortal  as  Angelo 
and  Tartuffe,  and  should  take  equal  rank  with 
them.  They  constitute  the  contribution  of  modern 
life  to  the  ancient  ideal  of  friendship.  He  who,  in 
future,  attempts  to  write  a  new  De  Amicitia, 
must  assign  to  them  a  niche  and  praise  them  in 
Ciceronian  prose.  They  are  fixed  types  for  all  time 
to  come.  To  abuse  them  would  show  a  lack  of  due 
appreciation.  Thej^  simply  do  not  grasp  that  which 
is  beyond  their  horizon.  That  is  all.  Greatness  of 
soul  is  not  contagious.  Sublime  thoughts  and  sub- 
lime feelings  are,  by  their  very  nature,  isolated 

and  stand,  as  it  were,  alone. 

******** 

If  everything  goes  well,  I  shall  be  a  free  man  by 
the  end  of  May  and  then  I  expect  to  go  at  once, 


DE  PKOFUNDIS.  93 

with  Eobbie  and  More,  ...  to  some  foreign 
village  by  the  sea.  Euripides  says  in  Ipliigenia 
that  the  sea  washes  away  the  stains  and  cleanses 
the  wounds  of  the  world. 

I  hope  to  pass  at  least  a  month  with  my  friends, 
and  to  gain,  in  their  wholesome,  loving  companion- 
ship, peace  and  equanimity ;  I  hope  that  my  heart 
may  then  feel  less  oppressed  and  my  mood  be  more 
softened.  I  feel  a  strange  longing  for  the  primi- 
tive elements — the  ocean,  which  is  as  much  a 
mother  to  me  as  the  earth.  It  seems  to  me  that  we 
contemplate  Nature  too  much,  and  live  too  little 
with  her.  The  attitude  of  the  Greeks  appears  to  me 
more  sane  and  reasonable.  They  did  not  rave  sen- 
timentally about  sunsets,  nor  did  they  discuss  the 
question  whether  the  shadows  on  the  grass  were 
really  violet  or  not.  But  they  knew  that  the  sea 
was  meant  for  the  swimmer  and  the  sand  on  the 
shore  for  the  feet  of  the  runner.  They  loved  the 
trees  for  their  shade  and  the  forests  for  the  silence 
which  permeates  them  at  noon.  The  vintager  placed 
a  wreath  of  ivy  on  his  head  to  ward  off  the  rays  of 
the  sun  when  he  bent  low  over  the  young,  sprouting 
vine,  and  for  the  artist  and  the  athlete — the  two 
types  which  we  owe  to  Hellas — they  wound  into 


94    THE  WEITIXGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

wreaths  the  leaves  of  the  bitter  laurel  and  of  the 
wild  parsle}r,  which  were  of  no  other  use  to  men. 

We  pride  ourselves  that  we  live  in  a  utilitarian 
age  and  we  don't  know  the  proper  use  of  anything. 
We  have  forgotten  that  water  can  cleanse,  that  fire 
can  purify  and  that  the  earth  is  the  mother  of  us 
all.  Accordingly,  our  art  is  of  the  moon  and  plays 
with  shadows,  while  Greek  art  is  of  the  sun  and 
concerns  itself  with  the  things  themselves. 

I  am  convinced  that  the  elements  possess  a  heal- 
ing, purifying  power,  and  I  will  return  to  them 
and  live  in  their  company.  For  one,  who  is  so 
modern  as  I  am,  so  much  an  "enfant  de  mon 
siecle,"  the  mere  sight  of  the  world  will  always  be 
a  joy.  I  tremble  with  joyful  anticipation  when  I 
think  that  on  the  day  when  I  shall  leave  this  prison 
the  laburnum  and  the  lilac  will  be  in  bloom,  and 
that  I  shall  see  how  the  wind  shakes  unceasingly 
the  hanging  gold  flowers  of  the  former  and  the 
pale-purple  blossoms  of  the  latter,  so  that  the  air 
will  be  filled  with  fragrance  sweeter  than  the  per- 
fumes of  Arabia.  Linnaeus  went  down  on  his  knees 
and  cried  with  joy  when  he  saw,  for  the  first  time, 
the  wide-stretching  expanse  of  an  English  heath, 
yellow  with  the  sweet-smelling  broom-plant,  and 
I,  who  love  flowers,  as  a  mother  loves  children, 


DE  PROFUXDIS.  95 

know  that  tears  are  waiting  for  me  in  the  petals  of 
a  rose.  I  have  always  felt  this  emotion  since  my 
early  youth.  There  is  no  colour  hiding  in  the  chalice 
of  a  flower,  or  in  the  hollow  of  a  shell,  which  does 
not  touch  a  chord  in  my  soul  that  responds  in 
tender  sympathy  to  the  soul  of  all  created  things. 
Like  Gautier,  I  have  always  been  one  of  those 
"pour  qui  le  monde  visible  existe."  Yet  now  I 
know  that  behind  all  this  beauty,  however  convinc- 
ing it  may  be,  there  is  hidden  a  spirit  of  which  all 
things  tangible  and  visible  are  mere  projections, 
and  it  is  with  this  spirit  that  I  wish  to  come  into 
harmonious  touch.  I  am  weary  of  men  and  things 
which  we  can  easily  perceive  with  our  crude  senses. 
The  mystic  element  in  art,  the  mystical  in  life,  the 
mystical  in  Nature — that  is  what  my  soul  is  hungry 
for,  and  in  the  great  musical  symphonies,  in  the 
hallowed  suffering  of  the  human  heart  and  in  the 
depths  of  the  ocean  I  may  find  it,  for  it  is  abso- 
lutely necessary  that  I  find  it  somewhere. 

All  trials  are  trials  for  life,  just  as  all  sentences 
are  death-sentences.  I  have  faced  the  judge  three 
times.  The  first  time  when  from  an  accuser  I 
became  the  accused  and  was  arrested;  the  second 
time,  to  be  led  back  to  jail  and  held  for  trial ;  the 
third  time,  to  be  sentenced  to  two  years'  imprison- 


96    THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

ment.  Society,  as  it  is  constituted  at  present,  will 
have  no  place  for  me,  can  offer  none.  But  Nature, 
who  pours  her  beneficent  rain  alike  upon  the  just 
and  the  unjust,  will  offer  me  some  hiding  in  the 
fastness  of  the  mountains,  or  the  seclusion  of  silent 
valleys,  where  I  may  weep  undisturbed.  She  will 
illumine  the  night  with  stars  that  I  may,  without 
stumbling,  find  my  way  in  the  dark  and  into  exile ; 
let  the  wind  efface  all  traces  of  my  footprints  so 
that  no  one  can  follow  or  harm  me ;  she  will  cleanse 
me  with  her  mighty  waters  and  heal  my  wounds 
with  her  bitter  herbs 


Supplementary  Letters. 


SUPPLEMENTARY  LETTERS. 

January  6th,  1896. 
My  dear  Robbie, 

Consider  now,  my  dear  Robbie,  my  proposal.  I 
think  my  wife,  who  in  money  matters  is  most  hon- 
ourable and  high-minded,  will  refund  the  £75  paid 
for  my  share.  I  have  no  doubt  she  will.  But  I 
think  it  should  be  offered  from  me,  and  that  I 
should  not  accept  anything  in  the  way  of  income 
from  her;  I  can  accept  what  is  given  in  love  and 
affection  to  me,  but  I  could  not  accept  what  is  doled 
out  grudgingly  or  with  conditions.  I  would  sooner 
let  my  wife  be  quite  free.  She  may  marry  again. 
In  any  case  I  think  that  if  free  she  would  allow  me 
to  see  my  children  from  time  to  time.  That  is  what 
I  want.  But  I  must  set  her  free  first,  and  had 
better  do  it  as  a  gentleman  by  bowing  my  head  and 
accepting  everything.  You  must  consider  the  whole 
question,  as  it  is  through  you  and  your  ill-advised 
action  it  is  due:  and  let  me  know  what  you  and 
others  think.  Of  course  you  acted  for  the  best. 
99 


100  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAE  WILDE. 

But  you  were  wrong  in  your  view.  I  may  say  can- 
didly that  I  am  getting  gradually  to  a  state  of 
mind  when  I  think  that  everything  that  happens 
is  for  the  best.  This  may  be  philosophy,  or  a 
broken  heart,  or  religion,  or  the  dull  apathy  of 
despair.  But,  whatever  its  origin,  the  feeling  is 
strong  with  me.  To  tie  my  wife  to  me  against  her 
will  would  be  wrong.  She  has  a  full  right  to  her 
freedom.  And  not  to  be  supported  by  her  would 
be  a  pleasure  to  me.  It  is  an  ignominious  position 
to  be  a  pensioner  on  her.  Talk  over  this  with  More 
Adey.  Get  him  to  show  you  the  letter  I  have  writ- 
ten to  him.  Ask  your  brother  Aleck  to  give  me 
his  advice.    He  has  excellent  wisdom  on  things. 

Now  to  other  points. 

I  have  never  had  the  chance  of  thanking  you 
for  the  books.  They  were  most  welcome.  Not 
being  allowed  the  magazines  was  a  blow,  but  Mere- 
dith's novel  charmed  me.  What  a  sane  artist  in 
temper !  He  is  quite  right  in  his  assertion  of  san- 
ity as  the  essential  in  romance.  Still,  up  to  the 
present  only  the  abnormal  have  found  expression 
in  life  and  literature.  Eossetti's  letters  are  dread- 
ful, obviously  forgeries  by  his  brother.  I  was  in- 
terested, however,  to  see  how  my  granduncle's 
Melmoth,   and   my  mother's   Sidonia  have  been 


SUPPLEMENTARY  LETTERS.        101 

two  of  the  books  that  fascinated  his  youth.  As 
regards  the  conspiracy  against  him  in  later  years, 
I  believe  it  really  existed,  and  that  the  funds  for 
it  came  out  of  Hake's  Bank.  The  conduct  of  a 
thrush  in  Cheyne  Walk  oeems  to  be  most  suspi- 
cious, though  William  Rossetti  says:  "I  could 
discern  nothing  in  the  thrush's  song  at  all  out  of 
the  common."  Stevenson's  letters  are  most  dis- 
appointing also — I  see  that  romantic  surroundings 
are  the  worst  surroundings  possible  for  a  romantic 
writer.  In  Gower  Street,  Stevenson  could  have 
written  a  new  Trois  Mousquetaires.  In  Samoa 
he  wrote  letters  to  The  Times  about  Germans.  I 
see  also  the  traces  of  a  terrible  strain  to  lead  a 
natural  life.  To  chop  wood  with  any  advantage 
to  oneself,  or  profit  to  others,  one  should  not  be 
able  to  describe  the  process.  In  point  of  fact  the 
natural  life  is.  the  unconscious  life.  Stevenson 
merely  extended  the  sphere  of  the  artificial  by  tak- 
ing to  digging.  The  whole  dreary  book  has  given 
me  a  lesson.  If  I  spend  my  future  life  reading 
Baudelaire  in  a  cafe  I  shall  be  leading  a  more  nat- 
ural life  than  if  I  take  to  hedger's  work  or  plant 
cacao  in  mud-swamps.  En  Route  is  most  over- 
rated. It  is  sheer  journalism.  It  never  makes  one 
hear  a  note  of  the  music  it  describes.    The  subject 


102  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

is  delightful,  but  the  style  is,  of  course,  worthless, 
slipshod,  flaccid.  It  is  worse  French  than  Ohnet's. 
Ohnet  tries  to  be  commonplace  and  succeeds.  Huys- 
man  tries  not  to  be,  and  is.  .  .  .  Hardy's  novel 
is  pleasant,  and  Harold  Frederic's  very  interesting 
in  matter.  .  .  .  Later  on,  there  being  hardly 
any  novels  in  the  prison  library  for  the  poor  im- 
prisoned fellows  I  live  with,  I  think  of  presenting 
the  Library  with  about  a  dozen  good  novels: 
Stevenson's  (none  here  but  The  Black  Arrow), 
some  of  Thackeray's  (none  here),  Jane  Austen 
(none  here),  and  some  good  Dumas-pere-like 
books,  by  Stanley  Weyman,  for  instance,  and  any 
modern  young  man.  You  mentioned  Henley  had 
a  protege?  Also  the  Anthony  Hope  man.  After 
Easter  you  might  make  out  a  list  of  about  four- 
teen and  apply  to  let  me  have  them.  They  would 
please  the  few  who  do  not  care  about  De  Goncourt's 
journal.  Don't  forget  I  would  pay  myself  for 
them.  I  have  a  horror  myself  of  going  out  into  a 
world  without  a  single  book  of  my  own.  I  wonder 
would  there  be  any  of  my  friends,  such  as  Cosmo 
Lennox,  Reggie  Turner,  Gilbert  Burgess,  Max,  and 
the  like,  who  would  give  me  a  few  books.  You 
know  the  sort  of  books  I  want:  Flaubert,  Steven- 
son, Baudelaire,  Maeterlinck,  Dumas  pere,  Keats, 


SUPPLEMENTARY  LETTERS.        103 

Marlowe,  Chatterton,  Coleridge,  Anatole  France, 
Gautier,  Dante  and  all  Dante  literature;  Goethe 
and  Goethe  literature,  and  so  on.  I  would  feel  it 
a  great  compliment  to  have  books  waiting  for  me — 
and  perhaps  there  may  be  some  friends  who  would 
like  to  be  kind  to  me.  One  is  really  very  grateful, 
though  I  fear  I  often  seem  not  to  be.  But  then 
remember  I  have  had  incessant  worries  besides 
prison-life. 

In  answer  to  this  you  can  send  me  a  long  letter 
all  about  plays  and  books.  Your  handwriting,  in 
your  last,  was  so  dreadful  that  it  looked  as  if  you 
were  writing  a  three-volume  novel  on  the  terrible 
spread  of  communistic  ideas  among  the  rich,  or  in 
some  other  way  wasting  a  youth  that  always  has 
been,  and  always  will  remain,  quite  full  of  promise. 
If  I  wrong  you  in  ascribing  it  to  such  a  cause,  you 
must  make  allowances  for  the  morbidity  produced 
by  long  imprisonment.  But  do  write  clearly. 
Otherwise  it  looks  as  if  you  had  something  to  con- 
ceal. 

There  is  much  that  is  horrid,  I  suppose,  in  this 
letter.  But  I  had  to  blame  you  to  yourself,  not  to 
others.  Read  my  letter  to  More.  Harris  comes  to 
see  me  on  Saturday,  I  hope.  Remember  me  to 
Arthur  Clifton  and  his  wife,  who,  I  find,  is  so  like 


104  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 


Rossettfs  wife — the  same  lovely  hair — but  of 
course  a  sweeter  nature,  though  Miss  Siddal  is  fas- 
cinating and  her  poem  Al. 

Yours  ever, 

Oscae. 


SUPPLEMENTARY  LETTERS.        105 


10th  March,  1896. 
My  dear  Robbie, 

I  want  you  to  hare  a  letter  written  at  once  to 

Mr. ,  the  solicitor,  stating  that  as  my  wife  has 

promised  to  settle  a  third  on  me,  in  the  case  of  her 
predeceasing  me,  I  do  not  wish  any  opposition  to 
be  made  to  her  purchasing  my  life  interest.  I  feel 
that  I  have  brought  such  unhappiness  on  her  and 
such  ruin  on  my  children  that  I  have  no  right  to 
go  against  her  wishes  in  anything.  She  was  gentle 
and  good  to  me  here,  when  she  came  to  see  me.  I 
have  full  trust  in  her.  Please  have  this  done  at 
once,  and  thank  my  friends  for  their  kindnesses. 
I  feel  I  am  acting  rightly  leaving  this  to  my  wife. 

Please  write  to  Stuart  Merrill  in  Paris,  or  Rob- 
ert Sherard,  to  say  how  gratified  I  was  at  the 
performance  of  my  play,  and  have  my  thanks  con- 
veyed to  Lugne-Poe ;  it  is  something  that  at  a  time 
of  disgrace  and  shame  I  should  be  still  regarded  as 
an  artist :  I  wish  I  could  feel  more  pleasure,  but  I 
seem  dead  to  all  emotion  except  those  of  anguish 
and  despair.  However,  please  let  Lugne-Poe  know 
that  I  am  sensible  of  the  honour  he  has  done  me. 


106  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAE  WILDE. 

He  is  a  poet  himself.  I  fear  you  will  find  it  diffi- 
cult to  read  this,  but  as  I  am  not  allowed  writing 
materials  I  seem  to  have  forgotten  how  to  write — 
you  must  excuse  me.  Thank  More  for  exerting 
himself  for  books  for  me;  unluckily  I  suffer  from 
headaches  when  I  read  my  Greek  and  Eoman  poets 
— so  they  have  not  been  of  much  use — but  his  kind- 
ness was  great  in  getting  the  set.  Ask  him  to  ex- 
press my  gratitude  to  the  lady  who  lives  at  Wimble- 
don. Write  to  me,  please,  in  answer  to  this  and 
tell  me  about  literature,  what  new  books,  etc., — 
also  Jones'  play  and  Forbes-Robertson's  manage- 
ment— about  any  new  tendency  in  the  stage  of 
Paris  or  London.  Also  try  and  see  what  Lemaitre, 
Bauer,  and  Sarcey  said  of  Salome,  and  give  me 
a  little  resume:  please  write  to  Henri  and  say  I 
am  touched  at  his  writing  nicely.  Robert  Sherard 
knows  him.  It  was  sweet  of  you  to  come  and  see 
me.  You  must  come  again  next  time.  Here  I 
have  the  horror  of  death  with  the  still  greater  hor- 
ror of  living,  and  in  silence  and  misery.    .    .    . 


I  always  remember  you  with  deep  affection. 
I  wish  Ernest  would  get  from  Oakley  Street  my 
portmanteau,  fur-coat,  clothes,  and  the  books  of 


SUPPLEMENTARY  LETTERS.        107 

my  own  writing  which  I  gave  my  dear  mother — 

ask in  whose  name  the  burial  ground  of  my 

mother  was  taken. 

Always  your  friend, 

Oscae  Wilde. 


108  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 


April  1st,  1897. 
My  dear  Robbie, 

I  send  you  a  MS.  separate  from  this,  which  I 
hope  will  arrive  safely.  As  soon  as  you  have  read 
it,  I  want  you  to  have  it  carefully  copied  for  me. 
There  are  many  causes  why  I  wish  this  to  be  done. 
One  will  suffice.  I  want  you  to  be  my  literary  ex- 
ecutor in  case  of  my  death,  and  to  have  complete 
control  of  my  plays,  books,  and  papers.  As  soon 
as  I  find  I  have  a  legal  right  to  make  a  will,  I  will 
do  so.  My  wife  does  not  understand  my  art,  nor 
could  be  expected  to  have  any  interest  in  it,  and 
Cyril  is  only  a  child.  So  I  turn  naturally  to  you, 
as  indeed  I  do  for  everything,  and  would  like  you 
to  have  all  my  works.  The  deficit  that  their  sale 
will  produce  may  be  lodged  to  the  credit  of  Cyril 
and  Vivian.  Well,  if  you  are  my  literary  executor, 
you  must  be  in  possession  of  the  only  document 
that  gives  any  explanation  of  my  extraordinary  be- 
haviour. .  .  .  When  you  have  read  the  letter, 
you  will  see  the  psychological  explanation  of  a 
course  of  conduct  that  from  the  outside  seems  a 
combination     of     absolute    idiocy    with     vulgar 


SUPPLEMENTARY  LETTERS.        109 

bravado.  Some  day  the  truth  will  have  to  be 
known — not  necessarily  in  my  lifetime  .  .  .  but 
I  am  not  prepared  to  sit  in  the  grotesque  pillory 
they  put  me  into,  for  all  time ;  for  the  simple  rea- 
son that  I  inherited  from  my  father  and  mother  a 
name  of  high  distinction  of  literature  and  art,  and 
I  cannot  for  eternity  allow  that  name  to  be  de- 
graded. ...  I  don't  defend  my  conduct.  I 
explain  it.  Also  there  are  in  my  letter  certain 
passages  which  deal  with  my  mental  development 
in  prison,  and  the  inevitable  evolution  of  my  char- 
acter and  intellectual  attitude  towards  life  that  has 
taken  place :  and  I  want  you  and  others  who  still 
stand  by  me  and  have  affection  for  me  to  know 
exactly  in  what  mood  and  manner  I  hope  to  face 
the  world.  Of  course  from  one  point  of  view  I 
know  that  on  the  day  of  my  release  I  shall  be 
merely  passing  from  one  prison  into  another,  and 
there  are  times  when  the  whole  world  seems  to  me 
no  larger  than  my  cell  and  as  full  of  terror  for  me. 
Still  I  believe  that  at  the  beginning  God  made  a 
world  for  each  separate  man,  and  in  that  world 
which  is  within  us  one  should  seek  to  live.  At  any 
rate  you  will  read  those  parts  of  my  letter  with  less 
pain  than  the  others.  Of  course  I  need  not  remind 
you  how  fluid  a  thing  thought  is  with  me — with  us 


110  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

all — and  of  what  an  evanescent  substance  are  our 
emotions  made.  Still,  I  do  see  a  sort  of  possible 
goal  towards  which,  through  art,  I  may  progress. 
It  is  not  unlikely  that  you  may  help  me. 

As  regards  the  mode  of  copying :  of  course  it  is 
too  long  for  any  amanuensis  to  attempt :  and  your 
own  handwriting,  dear  Robbie,  in  your  last  letter, 
seems  specially  designed  to  remind  me  that  the 
task  is  not  to  be  yours.  ...  I  think 
that  the  only  thing  to  do  is  to  be  thoroughly 
modern  and  to  have  it  typewritten.  Of  course,  the 
MSS.  should  not  pass  out  of  your  control,  but 
could  you  not  get  Mrs.  Marshall  to  send  down  one 
of  her  typewriting  girls — women  are  the  most  re- 
liable as  they  have  no  memory  for  the  important — 
to  Hornton  Street  or  Phillimore  Gardens,  to  do 
it  under  your  supervision?  I  assure  you  that  the 
typewriting  machine,  when  played  with  expression, 
is  not  more  annoying  than  the  piano  when  played 
by  a  sister  or  near  relation.  Indeed,  many  among 
those  most  devoted  to  domesticity  prefer  it.  I  wish 
the  copy  to  be  done  not  on  tissue  paper  but  on  good 
paper  such  as  is  used  for  plays,  and  a  wide  rubri- 
cated margin  should  be  left  for  corrections.  .  .  . 
If  the  copy  is  done  at  Hornton  Street  the  lady 
typewriter  might  be  fed  through  a  lattice  in  the 


SUPPLEMENT AEY  LETTEES.   Ill 

door,  like  the  Cardinals  when  they  elect  a  Pope; 
till  she  comes  out  on  the  balcony  and  can  say  to 
the  world :  "Habet  Mundus  Epistolam,"  for  indeed 
it  is  an  Encyclical  letter,  and  as  the  Bulls  of  the 
Holy  Father  are  named  from  their  opening  words, 
it  may  be  spoken  of  as  the  "Epistola :  in  Carcere  et 
Vinculis."  ...  In  point  of  fact,  Eobbie,  prison 
life  makes  one  see  people  and  things  as  they  really 
are.  That  is  why  it  turns  one  to  stone.  It  is  the 
people  outside  who  are  deceived  by  the  illusions  of 
a  life  in  constant  motion.  They  revolve  with  life 
and  contribute  to  its  unreality.  We  who  are  im- 
mobile both  see  and  know.  Whether  or  not  the 
letter  does  good  to  narrow  natures  and  hectic 
brains,  to  me  it  has  done  good.  I  have  "cleansed 
my  bosom  of  much  perilous  stuff";  to  borrow  a 
phrase  from  the  poet  whom  you  and  I  once  thought 
of  rescuing  from  the  Philistines.  I  need  not  re- 
mind you  the  mere  expression  is  to  an  artist  the 
supreme  and  only  mode  of  life.  It  is  by  utterance 
that  we  Jive.  Of  the  many,  many  things  for  which 
I  have  to  thank  the  Governor  there  is  none  for 
which  I  am  more  grateful  than  for  his  permission 
to  write  fully  and  at  as  great  a  length  as  I  desire. 
For  nearly  two  years  I  had  within  a  growing  bur- 
den of  bitterness,  mucn  of  which  I  have  now  got 


112  THE  WEITINGS  OF  OSCAK  WILDE. 

rid  of.  On  the  other  side  of  the  prison  wall  there 
are  some  poor  black  soot-besmirched  trees  that  are 
just  breaking  out  into  buds  of  an  almost  shrill 
green.  I  know  quite  well  what  they  are  going 
through.    They  are  finding  expression. 

Ever  yours, 

Oscar. 


SUPPLEMENTARY  XETTERS.        113 


H.  M.  Prison,  Eeading. 

.  .  .  To  these  purely  business  matters  perhaps 
More  Adey  will  kindly  reply.  His  letter  dealing 
purely  with  business,  I  shall  be  allowed  to  receive. 
It  will  not,  I  mean,  interfere  with  your  literary 
letter  with  regard  to  which  the  Governor  has  just 
now  read  me  your  kind  message. 

For  myself,  my  dear  Robbie,  I  have  little  to  say 
that  can  please  you.  The  refusal  to  commute  my 
sentence  has  been  like  a  blow  from  a  leaden  sword. 
I  am  dazed  with  a  dull  sense  of  pain.  I  had  fed 
on  hope,  and  now  anguish,  grown  hungry,  feeds  her 
fill  on  me  as  though  she  had  been  starved  of  her 
proper  appetite.  There  are,  however,  kinder  ele- 
ments in  this  evil  prison  air  than  before:  sympa- 
thies have  been  shown  to  me,  and  I  no  longer  feel 
entirely  isolated  from  humane  influences,  which 
was  before  a  source  of  terror  and  trouble  to  me. 
And  I  read  Dante,  and  make  excerpts  and  notes 
for  the  pleasure  of  using  a  pen  and  ink.  And  it 
seems  as  if  I  were  better  in  many  ways,  and  I  am 
going  to  take  up  the  study  of  German.     Indeed, 


114  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

prison  seems  to  be  the  proper  place  for  such  a 
study.  There  is  a  thorn,  however — as  bitter  as 
that  of  St.  Paul,  though  different — that  I  must 
pluck  out  of  my  flesh  in  this  letter.  It  is  caused 
by  a  message  you  wrote  on  a  piece  of  paper  for  me 
to  see.  I  feel  that  if  I  kept  it  secret  it  might  grow 
in  my  mind  (as  poisonous  things  grow  in  the  dark) 
and  take  its  place  with  other  terrible  thoughts  that 
gnaw  me.  .  .  .  Thought,  to  those  that  sit  alone 
and  silent  and  in  bonds,  being  no  "winged  living 
thing,"  as  Plato  feigned  it,  but  a  thing  dead, 
breeding  what  is  horrible  like  a  slime  that  shows 
monsters  to  the  moon. 

I  mean,  of  course,  what  you  said  about  the  sym- 
pathies of  others  being  estranged  from  me,  or  in 
danger  of  being  so,  by  the  deep  bitterness  of  my 
feelings :  and  I  believe  that  my  letter  was  lent  and 
shown  to  others.  .  .  .  Now,  I  don't  like  my 
letters  shown  about  as  curiosities :  it  is  most  dis- 
tasteful to  me.  I  write  to  you  freely  as  to  one  of 
the  dearest  friends  I  have,  or  have  ever  had :  and, 
with  a  few  exceptions,  the  sympathy  of  others 
touches  me,  as  far  as  its  loss  goes,  very  little.  No 
man  of  my  position  can  fall  into  the  mire  of  life 
without  getting  a  great  deal  of  pity  from  his  in- 
feriors; and  I  know  that  when  plays  last  too  long 


SUPPLEMENTAKY  LETTEKS.        115 

spectators  tire.  My  tragedy  has  lasted  far  too 
long;  its  climax  is  over;  its  end  is  mean;  and  I 
am  quite  conscious  of  the  fact  that  when  the  end 
does  come  I  shall  return  an  unwelcome  visitant  to 
a  world  that  does  not  want  me.  A  revenant,  as  the 
French  say,  as  one  whose  face  is  grey  with  long 
imprisonment  and  crooked  with  pain.  Horrible  as 
are  the  dead  when  they  rise  from  their  tombs,  the 
living  who  come  out  from  tombs  are  more  horrible 
still.  Of  all  this  I  am  only  too  conscious.  When 
one  has  been  for  eighteen  terrible  months  in  a 
prison  cell,  one  sees  things  and  people  as  they  really 
are.  The  sight  turns  one  to  stone.  Do  not  think 
that  I  would  blame  any  one  for  my  vices.  My 
friends  had  as  little  to  do  with  them  as  I  had  with 
theirs.  Nature  was  in  this  matter  a  stepmother 
to  all  of  us.  I  blame  them  for  not  appreciating  the 
man  they  ruined.  As  long  as  my  table  was  red  with 
wine  and  roses,  what  did  they  care'?  My  genius, 
my  life  as  an  artist,  my  work,  and  the  quiet  I 
needed  for  it,  were  nothing  to  them.  ...  I 
admit  I  lost  my  head.  ...  I  was  bewildered, 
incapable  of  judgment.  I  made  the  one  fatal  step. 
And  now  ...  I  sit  here  on  a  bench  in  a  prison 
cell.  In  all  tragedies  there  is  a  grotesque  element. 
You  know  the  grotesque  element  in  mine.    Do  not 


116  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

think  I  do  not  blame  myself.  I  curse  myself  night 
and  day  for  my  folly  in  allowing  something  to 
dominate  my  life.  If  there  was  an  echo  in  these 
walls,  it  would  cry  "Fool"  for  ever.  I  am  utterly 
ashamed  of  my  friendships.  .  .  .  For  by  their 
friendships  men  can  be  judged.  It  is  a  test  of 
every  man.  And  I  feel  poignant  abasement  of 
shame  for  my  friendships  ...  of  which  you 
may  read  a  full  account  in  my  trial. 

It  is  to  me  a  daily  source  of  mental  humiliation. 
Of  some  of  them  I  never  think.    They  trouble  me 

not.    It  is  of  no  importance Indeed  my 

entire  tragedy  seems  to  be  grotesque  and  nothing 
else.  For  as  a  result  of  my  having  suffered  myself 
to  be  thrust  into  a  trap  .  .  .  and  I  sit  in  the 
lowest  mire  of  Malebolge,  between  Gilles  de  Retz 
and  the  Marquis  de  Sade.  In  certain  places  no 
one,  except  those  actually  insane,  is  allowed  to 
laugh :  and  indeed,  even  in  their  case,  it  is  against 
the  regulations  for  conduct:  otherwise  I  think  I 
would  laugh  at  that.  .  .  .  For  the  rest,  do  not 
let  any  one  suppose  that  I  am  crediting  others  with 
unworthy  motives.  They  really  had  no  motives  in 
life  at  all.  Motives  are  intellectual  things.  They 
had  passions  merely,  and  such  passions  are  False 
Gods  that  will  have  victims  at  all  costs,  and  in  the 


SUPPLEMENTARY  LETTERS.        117 

present  case  have  had  one  wreathed  with  bay.  Now 
I  have  plucked  the  thorn  out — that  little  scrawled 
line  of  yours  rankled  terribly.  I  now  think  merely 
of  your  getting  quite  well  again,  and  writing  at 

last  the  wonderful  story  of .    Pray  remember 

me  to  your  dear  mother,  and  also  to  Aleck.  The 
"gilded  sphinx"  is,  I  suppose,  wonderful  as  ever. 
And  send  from  me  all  that  in  my  thoughts  and 
feelings  is  good,  and  whatever  of  remembrance  and 
reverence  she  will  accept,  to  the  lady  of  Wimbledon, 
whose  soul  is  a  sanctuary  for  those  who  are 
wounded  and  a  house  of  refuge  for  those  in  pain. 
Do  not  show  this  letter  to  others,  nor  discuss  what 
I  have  written  in  your  answer.  Tell  me  about  that 
world  of  shadows  I  loved  so  much.  And  about  the 
life  and  the  soul  tell  me  also.  I  am  curious  of  the 
things  that  stung  me ;  and  in  my  pain  there  is  pity. 
Yours, 

Oscae. 


The  Soul  of  Man  Under 
Socialism. 


THE  SOUL  OF  MAN  UNDER  SOCIALISM. 

The  chief  advantage  that  would  result  from  the 
establishment  of  Socialism  is,  undoubtedly,  the  fact 
that  Socialism  would  relieve  us  from  that  sordid 
necessity  of  living  for  others  which,  in  the  present 
condition  of  things,  presses  so  hardly  upon  almost 
everybody.  In  fact,  scarcely  ariy  one  at  all  escapes. 

Now  and  then,  in  the  course  of  the  century,  a 
great  man  of  science,  like  Darwin;  a  great  poet, 
like  Keats;  a  fine  critical  spirit,  like  M.  Eenan;  a 
supreme  artist,  like  Flaubert,  has  been  able  to 
isolate  himself,  to  keep  himself  out  of  reach  of  the 
clamorous  claims  of  others,  to  stand  "under  the 
shelter  of  the  wall,"  as  Plato  puts  it,  and  so  to 
realise  the  perfection  of  what  was  in  him,  to  his 
own  incomparable  gain,  and  to  the  incomparable 
and  lasting  gain  of  the  whole  world.  These,  how- 
ever, are  exceptions.  The  majority  of  people  spoil 
their  lives  by  an  unhealthy  and  exaggerated  altru- 
ism— are  forced,  indeed,  so  to  spoil  them.  They 
find  themselves  surrounded  by  hideous  poverty,  by 
121 


122  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

hideous  ugliness,  by  hideous  starvation.  It  is  in- 
evitable that  they  should  be  strongly  moved  by  all 
this.  The  emotions  of  man  are  stirred  more 
quickly  than  man's  intelligence;  and,  as  I  pointed 
out  some  time  ago  in  an  article  on  the  function  of 
criticism,  it  is  much  more  easy  to  have  sympathy 
with  suffering  than  it  is  to  have  sympathy  with 
thought.  Accordingly,  with  admirable  though  mis- 
directed intentions,  they  very  seriously  and  very 
sentimentally  set  themselves  to  the  task  of  remedy- 
ing the  evils  that  they  see.  But  their  remedies  do 
not  cure  the  disease :  they  merely  prolong  it  In- 
deed, their  remedies  are  part  of  the  disease. 

They  try  to  solve  the  problem  of  poverty,  for  in- 
stance, by  keeping  the  poor  alive ;  or,  in  the  case  of 
a  very  advanced  school,  by  amusing  the  poor. 

But  this  is  not  a  solution:  it  is  an  aggravation 
of  the  difficulty.  The  proper  aim  is  to  try  and  re- 
construct society  on  such  a  basis  that  poverty  will 
be  impossible.  And  the  altruistic  virtues  have 
really  prevented  the  carrying  out  of  this  aim.  Just 
as  the  worst  slave-owners  were  those  who  were  kind 
to  their  slaves,  and  so  prevented  the  horror  of  the 
system  being  realised  by  those  who  suffered  from 
it,  and  understood  by  those  who  contemplated  it, 
so,  in  the  present  state  of  things  in  England,  the 


SOUL  OF  MAN"  UNDER  SOCIALISM.  123 

people  who  do  most  harm  are  the  people  who  try  to 
do  most  good ;  and  at  last  we  have  had  the  spectacle 
of  men  who  have  really  studied  the  problem  and 
know  the  life — educated  men  who  live  in  the  East 
End — coming  forward  and  imploring  the  com- 
munity to  restrain  its  altruistic  impulses  of  charity, 
benevolence,  and  the  like.  They  do  so  on  .the 
ground  that  such  charity  degrades  and  demoralises. 
They  are  perfectly  right.  Charity  creates  a  multi- 
tude of  sins. 

There  is  also  this  to  be  said.  It  is  immoral  to  use 
private  property  in  order  to  alleviate  the  horrible 
evils  that  result  from  the  institution  of  private 
property.    It  is  both  immoral  and  unfair. 

Under  Socialism  all  this  will,  of  course,  be  al- 
tered. There  will  be  no  people  living  in  fetid  dens 
and  fetid  rags,  and  bringing  up  unhealthy,  hunger- 
pinched  children  in  the  midst  of  impossible  and 
absolutely  repulsive  surroundings.  The  security 
of  society  will  not  depend,  as  it  does  now,  on  the 
state  of  the  weather.  If  a  frost  comes  we  shall  not 
have  a  hundred  thousand  men  out  of  work,  tramp- 
ing about  the  streets  in  a  state  of  disgusting  mis- 
ery, or  whining  to  their  neighbours  for  alms,  or 
crowding  round  the  doors  of  loathsome  shelters  to 
try  and  secure  a  hunch  of  bread  and  a  night's  un- 


124  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

clean  lodging.  Each  member  of  the  society  will 
share  in  the  general  prosperity  and  happiness  of  the 
society,  and  if  a  frost  comes  no  one  will  practically 
be  anything  the  worse. 

Upon  the  other  hand,  Socialism  itself  will  be  of 
value  simply  because  it  will  lead  to  Individualism. 

Socialism,  Communism,  or  whatever  one  chooses 
to  call  it,  by  converting  private  property  into  public 
wealth,  and  substituting  co-operation  for  competi- 
tion, will  restore  society  to  its  proper  condition  of  a 
thoroughly  healthy  organism,  and  insure  the  ma- 
terial well-being  of  each  member  of  the  community. 
It  will,  in  fact,  give  Life  its  proper  basis  and  its 
proper  environment.  But  for  the  full  development 
of  Life  to  its  highest  mode  of  perfection,  something 
more  is  needed.  What  is  needed  is  Individualism. 
If  the  Socialism  is  Authoritarian ;  if  there  are  Gov- 
ernments armed  with  economic  power  as  they  are 
now  with  political  power;  if,  in  a  word,  we  are  to 
have  Industrial  Tyrannies,  then  the  last  state  of 
man  will  be  worse  than  the  first.  At  present,  in 
consequence  of  the 'existence  of  private  property,  a 
great  many  people  are  enabled  to  develop  a  certain 
very  limited  amount  of  Individualism.  They  are 
either  under  no  necessity  to  work  for  their  living, 
or  are  enabled  to  choose  the  sphere  of  activity  that 


SOUL  OF  MAN  UNDER  SOCIALISM.  125 

is  really  congenial  to  them  and  gives  them  pleas- 
ure. These  are  the  poets,  the  philosophers,  the  men 
of  science,  the  men  of  culture — in  a  word,  the  real 
men,  the  men  who  have  realised  themselves,  and  in 
whom  all  Humanity  gains  a  partial  realisation. 
Upon  the  other  hand,  there  are  a  great  many  people 
who,  having  no  private  property  of  their  own,  and 
being  always  on  the  brink  of  sheer  starvation,  are 
compelled  to  do  the  work  of  beasts  of  burden,  to  do 
work  that  is  quite  uncongenial  to  them,  and  to 
which  they  are  forced  by  the  peremptory,  unreason- 
able, degrading  Tyranny  of  want.  These  are  the 
poor,  and  amongst  them  there  is  no  grace  of  man- 
ner, or  charm  of  speech,  or  civilisation,  or  culture, 
or  refinement  in  pleasures,  or  joy  of  life.  From 
their  collective  force  Humanity  gains  much  in  ma- 
terial prosperity.  But  it  is  only  the  material  re- 
sult that  it  gains,  and  the  man  who  is  poor  is  in 
himself  absolutely  of  no  importance.  He  is  merely 
the  infinitesimal  atom  of  a  force  that,  so  far  from 
regarding  him,  crushes  him:  indeed,  prefers  him 
crushed,  as  in  that  case  he  is  far  more  obedient. 

Of  course,  it  might  be  said  that  the  Individual- 
ism generated  under  conditions  of  private  property 
is  not  always,  or  even  as  a  rule,  of  a  fine  or  wonder- 
ful type,  and  that  the  poor,  if  they  have  not  cul- 


126  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

ture  and  charm,  have  still  many  virtues.  Both 
these  statements  would  be  quite  true.  The  posses- 
sion of  private  property  is  very  often  extremely  de- 
moralising, and  that  is,  of  course,  one  of  the 
reasons  why  Socialism  wants  to  get  rid  of  the  in- 
stitution. In  fact,  property  is  really  a  nuisance. 
Some  years  ago  people  went  about  the  country  say- 
ing that  property  has  duties.  They  said  it  so  often 
and  so  tediously  that,  at  last,  the  Church  has  begun 
to  say  it.  One  hears  it  now  from  every  pulpit.  It 
is  perfectly  true.  Property  not  merely  has  duties, 
but  has  so  many  duties  that  its  possession  to  any 
large  extent  is  a  bore.  It  involves  endless  claims 
upon  one,  endless  attention  to  business,  endless 
bother.  If  property  had  simply  pleasures,  we  could 
stand  it ;  but  its  duties  make  it  unbearable.  In  the 
interest  of  the  rich  we  must  get  rid  of  it.  The  vir- 
tues of  the  poor  may  be  readily  admitted,  and  are 
much  to  be  regretted.  We  are  often  told  that  the 
poor  are  grateful  for  charity.  Some  of  them  are, 
no  doubt,  but  the  best  amongst  the  poor  are  never 
grateful.  They  are  ungrateful,  discontented,  dis- 
obedient, and  rebellious.  They  are  quite  right  to 
be  so.  Charity  they  feel  to  be  a  ridiculously  inade- 
quate mode  of  partial  restitution,  or  a  sentimental 
dole,  usually  accompanied  by  some  impertinent  at- 


SOUL  OF  MAN  UNDER  SOCIALISM.  127 

tempt  on  the  part  of  the  sentimentalist  to  tyrannise 
over  their  private  lives.  Why  should  they  be  grate- 
ful for  the  crumbs  that  fall  from  the  rich  man's 
table  ?  They  should  be  seated  at  the  board,  and  are 
beginning  to  know  it.  As  for  being  discontented, 
a  man  who  would  not  be  discontented  with  such 
vsurroundings  and  such  a  low  mode  of  life  would  be 
a  perfect  brute.  Disobedience,  in  the  eyes  of  any 
one  who  has  read  history,  is  man's  original  virtue. 
It  is  through  disobedience  that  progress  has  been 
made,  through  disobedience  and  through  rebellion. 
Sometimes  the  poor  are  praised  for  being  thrifty. 
But  to  recommend  thrift  to  the  poor  is  both  gro- 
tesque and  insulting.  It  is  like  advising  a  man 
who  is  starving  to  eat  less.  For  a  town  or  country 
labourer  to  practise  thrift  would  be  absolutely  im- 
moral. Man  should  not  be  ready  to  show  that  he 
can  live  like  a  badly-fed  animal.  He  should  de- 
cline to  live  like  that,  and  should  either  steal  or 
go  on  the  rates,  which  is  considered  by  many  to  be 
a  form  of  stealing.  As  for  begging,  it  is  safer  to 
beg  than  to  take,  but  it  is  finer  to  take  than  to  beg. 
No;  a  poor  man  who  is  ungrateful,  unthrifty,  dis- 
contented, and  rebellious  is  probably  a  real  per- 
sonality, and  has  much  in  him.  He  is  at  any  rate 
a  healthy  protest.    As  for  the  virtuous  poor,  one 


128  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

can  pity  them,  of  course,  but  one  cannot  possibly 
admire  them.  They  have  made  private  terms  with 
the  enemy  and  sold  their  birthright  for  very  bad 
pottage.  They  must  also  be  extraordinarily  stupid. 
I  can  quite  understand  a  man  accepting  laws  that 
protect  private  property,  and  admit  of  its  accumu- 
lation, as  loug  as  he  himself  is  able  under  these 
conditions  to  realise  some  form  of  beautiful  and 
intellectual  life.  But  it  is  almost  incredible  to  me 
how  a  man  whose  life  is  marred  and  made  hideous 
by  such  laws  can  possibly  acquiesce  in  their  con- 
tinuance. 

However,  the  explanation  is  not  really  so  diffi- 
cult to  find.  It  is  simply  this.  Misery  and 
poverty  are  so  absolutely  degrading,  and  exercise 
such  a  paralysing  effect  over  the  nature  of  men, 
that  no  class  is  ever  really  conscious  of  its  own 
suffering.  They  have  to  be  told  of  it  by  other 
people,  and  they  often  entirely  disbelieve  them. 
What  is  said  by  great  employers  of  labour  against 
agitators  is  unquestionably  true.  Agitators  are  a 
set  of  interfering,  meddling  people,  who  come  down 
to  some  perfectly  contented  class  of  the  community, 
and  sow  the  seeds  of  discontent  amongst  them. 
That  is  the  reason  why  agitators  are  so  absolutely 
necessary.    Without  them,  in  our  incomplete  state, 


SOUL  OF  MAN  UNDER  SOCIALISM.  129 

there  would  be  no  advance  towards  civilisation. 
Slavery  was  put  down  in  America,  not  in  conse- 
quence of  any  action  on  the  part  of  the  slaves,  or 
even  any  express  desire  on  their  part  that  they 
should  be  free.  It  was  put  down  entirely  through 
the  grossly  illegal  conduct  of  certain  agitators  in 
Boston  and  elsewhere,  who  were  not  slaves  them- 
selves, nor  owners  of  slaves,  nor  had  anything  to 
do  with  the  question  really.  It  was,  undoubtedly, 
the  Abolitionists  who  set  the  torch  alight,  who 
began  the  whole  thing.  And  it  is  curious  to  note 
that  from  the  slaves  themselves  they  received,  not 
merely  very  little  assistance,  but  hardly  any  sym- 
pathy even ;  and  when  at  the  close  of  the  war  the 
slaves  found  themselves  free,  found  themselves  in- 
deed so  absolutely  free  that  they  were  free  to  starve, 
many  of  them  bitterly  regretted  the  new  state  of 
things.  To  the  thinker,  the  most  tragic  fact  in  the 
whole  of  the  French  Eevolution  is  not  that  Marie 
Antoinette  was  killed  for  being  a  queen,  but  that 
the  starved  peasant  of  the  Vendee  voluntarily  went 
out  to  die  for  the  hideous  cause  of  feudalism. 

It  is  clear,  then,  that  no  Authoritarian  Socialism 
will  do.  For  while  under  the  present  system  a  very 
large  number  of  people  can  lead  lives  of  a  certain 
amount  of  freedom  and  expression  and  happiness, 


130  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

under  an  industrial  barrack  system,  or  a  system  of 
economic  tyranny,  nobody  would  be  able  to  have 
any  such  freedom  at  all.  It  is  to  be  regretted  that 
a  portion  of  our  community  should  be  practically 
in  slavery,  but  to  propose  to  solve  the  problem  by 
enslaving  the  entire  community  is  childish.  Every 
man  must  be  left  quite  free  to  choose  his  own 
work.  No  form  of  compulsion  must  be  exercised 
over  him.  If  there  is,  his  work  will  not  be  good  for 
him,  will  not  be  good  in  itself,  and  will  not  be  good 
for  others.  And  by  work  I  simply  mean  activity 
of  any  kind. 

I  hardly  think  that  any  Socialist,  nowadays, 
would  seriously  propose  that  an  inspector  should 
call  every  morning  at  each  house  to  see  that  each 
citizen  rose  up  and  did  manual  labour  for  eight 
hours.  Humanity  has  got  beyond  that  stage,  and 
reserves  such  a  form  of  life  for  the  people  whom, 
in  a  very  arbitrary  manner,  it  chooses  to  call 
criminals.  But  I  confess  that  many  of  the  social- 
istic views  that  I  have  come  across  seem  to  me  to 
be  tainted  with  ideas  of  authority,  if  not  of  actual 
compulsion.  Of  course,  authority  and  compulsion 
are  out  of  the  question.  All  association  must  be 
quite  voluntary.  It  is  only  in  voluntary  associa- 
tions  that  man  is  fine. 


SOUL  OF  MAN  UNDER  SOCIALISM.  131 

But  it  may  be  asked  how  Individualism,  which 
is  now  more  or  less  dependent  on  the  existence  of 
private  property  for  its  development,  will  benefit 
by  the  abolition  of  such  private  property.  The 
answer  is  very  simple.  It  is  true  that,  under  exist- 
ing conditions,  a  few  men  who  have  had  private 
means  of  their  own,  such  as  Byron,  Shelley,  Brown- 
ing, Victor  Hugo,  Baudelaire,  and  others,  have 
been  able  to  realise  their  personality  more  or  less 
completely.  Not  one  of  these  men  ever  did  a 
single  day's  work  for  hire.  They  were  relieved 
from  poverty.  They  had  an  immense  advantage. 
The  question  is  whether  it  would  be  for  the  good  of 
Individualism  that  such  an  advantage  should  be 
taken  away.  Let  us  suppose  that  it  is  taken  away. 
What  happens  then  to  Individualism?  How  will 
it  benefit? 

It  will  benefit  in  this  way.  Under  the  new  con- 
ditions Individualism  will  be  far  freer,  far  finer, 
and  far  more  intensified  than  it  is  now.  I  am  not 
talking  of  the  great  imaginatively-realised  Indi- 
vidualism of  such  poets  as  I  have  mentioned,  but 
of  the  great  actual  Individualism  latent  and  po- 
tential in  mankind  generally.  For  the  recognition 
of  private  property  has  really  harmed  Individual- 
ism, and  obscured  it,  by  confusing  a  man  with  what 


132  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

he  possesses.  It  has  led  Individualism  entirely 
astray.  It  has  made  gain  not  growth  its  aim.  So 
that  man  thought  that  the  important  thing  was  to 
have,  and  did  not  know  that  the  important  thing 
is  to  be.  The  true  perfection  of  man  lies,  not  in 
what  man  has,  but  in  what  man  is.  Private  prop- 
erty has  crushed  true  Individualism,  and  set  up  an 
Individualism  that  is  false.  It  has  debarred  one 
part  of  the  community  from  being  individual  by 
starving  them.  It  has  debarred  the  other  part  of 
the  community  from  being  individual  by  putting 
them  on  the  wrong  road  and  encumbering  them. 
Indeed,  so  completely  has  man's  personality  been 
absorbed  by  his  possessions  that  the  English  law 
has  always  treated  offences  against  a  man's  prop- 
erty with  far  more  severity  than  offences  against 
his  person,  and  property  is  still  the  test  of  complete 
citizenship.  The  industry  necessary  for  the  mak- 
ing of  money  is  also  very  demoralising.  In  a  com- 
munity like  ours,  where  property  confers  immense 
distinction,  social  position,  honour,  respect,  titles, 
and  other  pleasant  things  of  the  kind,  man,  being 
naturally  ambitious,  makes  it  his  aim  to  accumu- 
late this  property,  and  goes  on  wearily  and  ted- 
iously accumulating  it  long  after  he  has  got  far 
more  than  he  wants,  or  can  use,  or  enjoy,  or  per- 


SOUL  OF  MAN  UNDER  SOCIALISM.  133 

haps  even  know  of.  Man  will  kill  himself  by  over- 
work in  order  to  secure  property,  and  really,  con- 
sidering the  enormous  advantages  that  property 
brings,  one  is  hardly  surprised.  One's  regret  is 
that  society  should  be  constructed  on  such  a  basis 
that  man  has  been  forced  into  a  groove  in  which 
he  cannot  freely  develop  what  is  wonderful,  and 
fascinating,  and  delightful  in  him — in  which,  in 
fact,  he  misses  the  true  pleasure  and  joy  of  living. 
He  is  also,  under  existing  conditions,  very  insecure. 
An  enormously  wealthy  merchant  may  be — often 
is — at  every  moment  of  his  life  at  the  mercy  of 
things  that  are  not  under  his  control.  If  the  wind 
blows  an  extra  point  or  so,  or  the  weather  suddenly 
changes,  or  some  trivial  thing  happens,  his  ship 
may  go  down,  his  speculations  may  go  wrong,  and 
he  finds  himself  a  poor  man,  with  his  social  posi- 
tion quite  gone.  Now,  nothing  should  be  able  to 
harm  a  man  except  himself.  Nothing  should  be 
able  to  rob  a  man  at  all.  What  a  man  really  has,  is 
what  is  in  him.  What  is  outside  of  him  should  be 
a  matter  of  no  importance. 

With  the  abolition  of  private  property,  then,  we 
shall  have  true,  beautiful,  healthy  Individualism. 
Nobody  will  waste  his  life  in  accumulating  things, 
and  the  symbols  for  things.    One  will  live.    To  live 


134  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

is  the  rarest  thing  in  the  world.    Most  people  exist, 
that  is  all. 

It  is  a  question  whether  we  have  ever  seen  the 
full  expression  of  a  personality,  except  on  the  im- 
aginative plane  of  art.  In  action,  we  never  have. 
Caesar,  says  Mommsen,  was  the  complete  and  per- 
fect man.  But  how  tragically  insecure  was  Caesar ! 
Wherever  there  is  a  man  who  exercises  authority, 
there  is  a  man  who  resists  authority.  Caesar  was 
very  perfect,  hut  his  perfection  travelled  hy  too 
dangerous  a  road.  Marcus  Aurelius  was  the  per- 
fect man,  says  Renan.  Yes ;  the  great  emperor  was 
a  perfect  man.  But  how  intolerable  were  the  end- 
less claims  upon  him!  He  staggered  under  the 
burden  of  the  empire.  He  was  conscious  how  in- 
adequate one  man  was  to  bear  the  weight  of  that 
Titan  and  too  vast  orb.  What  I  mean  by  a  perfect 
man  is  one  who  develops  under  perfect  conditions ; 
one  who  is  not  wounded,  or  worried,  or  maimed,  or 
in  danger.  Most  personalities  have  been  obliged  to 
be  rebels.  Half  their  strength  has  been  wasted  in 
friction.  Byron's  personality,  for  instance,  was 
terribly  wasted  in  its  battle  with  the  stupidity,  and 
hypocrisy,  and  Philistinism  of  the  English.  Such 
battles  do  not  always  intensify  strength :  they  often 
exaggerate  weakness.    Byron  was  never  able  to  give 


SOUL  OF  MAN  UNDER  SOCIALISM.  135 

us  what  he  might  have  given  us.  Shelley  escaped 
better.  Like  Byron,  he  got  out  of  England  as  soon 
as  possible.  But  he  was  not  so  well  known.  If  the 
English  had  had  any  idea  of  what  a  great  poet  he 
really  was,  they  would  have  fallen  on  him  with 
tooth  and  nail,  and  made  his  life  as  unbearable  to 
him  as  they  possibly  could.  But  he  was  not  a  re- 
markable figure  in  society,  and  consequently  he 
escaped,  to  a  certain  degree.  Still,  even  in  Shelley 
the  note  of  rebellion  is  sometimes  too  strong.  The 
note  of  the  perfect  personality  is  not  rebellion,  but 
peace. 

It  will  be  a  marvellous  thing — the  true  person- 
ality of  man — when  we  see  it.  It  will  grow  natur- 
ally and  simply,  flower-like,  or  as  a  tree  grows.  It 
will  not  be  at  discord.  It  will  never  argue  or 
dispute.  It  will  not  prove  things.  It  wilt  know 
everything.  And  yet  it  will  not  busy  itself  about 
knowledge.  It  will  have  wisdom.  Its  value  will 
not  be  measured  by  material  things.  It  will  have 
nothing.  And  yet  it  will  have  everything,  and 
whatever  one  takes  from  it,  it  will  still  have,  so 
rich  will  it  be.  It  will  not  be  always  meddling  with 
others,  or  asking  them  to  be  like  itself.  It  will  love 
them  because  they  will  be  different.  And  yet, 
while  it  will  not  meddle  with  others,  it  will  help  all, 


136  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

as  a  beautiful  thing  helps  us  by  being  what  it  is. 
The  personality  of  man  will  be  very  wonderful.  It 
will  be  as  wonderful  as  the  personality  of  a  child. 

In  its  development  it  will  be  assisted  by  Chris- 
tianity, if  men  desire  that ;  but  if  men  do  not  desire 
that,  it  will  develop  none  the  less  surely.  For  it 
will  not  worry  itself  about  the  past,  nor  care 
whether  things  happened  or  did  not  happen.  Nor 
will  it  admit  any  laws  but  its  own  laws;  nor  any 
authority  but  its  own  authority.  Yet  it  will  love 
those  who  sought  to  intensify  it,  and  speak  often 
of  them.    And  of  these  Christ  was  one. 

"Know  Thyself"  was  written  over  the  portal  of 
the  antique  world.  Over  the  portal  of  the  new 
world,  "Be  Thyself"  shall  be  written.  And  the 
message  of  Christ  to  man  was  simply  "Be  Thyself." 
That  is  the  secret  of  Christ. 

When  Jesus  talks  about  the  poor  He  simply 
means  personalities,  just  as  when  He  talks  about 
the  rich  He  simply  means  people  who  have  not  de- 
veloped their  personalities.  Jesus  moved  in  a  com- 
munity that  allowed  the  accumulation  of  private 
property  just  as  our  does,  and  the  gospel  that  He 
preached  was  not  that  in  such  a  community  it  is  an 
advantage  for  a  man  to  live  on  scanty,  unwhole- 
some food,  to  wear  ragged,  unwholesome  clothes,  to 


SOUL  OF  MAN  UNDER  SOCIALISM.  137 

sleep  in  horrid,  "unwholesome  dwellings,  and  a  dis- 
advantage for  a  man  to  live  under  healthy,  pleas- 
ant, and  decent  conditions.  Such  a  view  would 
have  been  wrong  there  and  then,  and  would,  of 
course,  be  still  more  wrong  now  and  in  England; 
for  as  man  moves  northwards  the  material  necessi- 
ties of  life  become  of  more  vital  importance,  and 
our  society  is  infinitely  more  complex,  and  displays 
far  greater  extremes  of  luxury  and  pauperism  than 
any  society  of  the  antique  world.  What  Jesus 
meant  was  this.  He  said  to  man,  "You  have  a 
wonderful  personality.  Develop  it.  Be  yourself. 
Don't  imagine  that  your  perfection  lies  in  accu- 
mulating or  possessing  external  things.  Your  per- 
fection is  inside  of  you.  If  only  you  could  realise 
that,  you  would  not  want  to  be  rich.  Ordinary 
riches  can  be  stolen  from  a  man.  Real  riches  can- 
not. In  the  treasury-house  of  your  soul  there  are 
infinitely  precious  things,  that  may  not  be  taken 
from  you.  And  so,  try  to  so  shape  your  life  that 
external  things  will  not  harm  you.  And  try  also 
to  get  rid  of  personal  property.  It  involves  sordid 
preoccupation,  endless  industry,  continual  wrong. 
Personal  property  hinders  Individualism  at  every 
step."  It  is  to  be  noted  that  Jesus  never  says  that 
impoverished    people    are    necessarily    good,    or 


138  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAE  WILDE. 

wealthy  people  necessarily  bad.  That  would  not 
have  been  true.  Wealthy  people  are,  as  a  class,  bet- 
ter than  impoverished  people,  more  moral,  more  in- 
tellectual, more  well-behaved.  There  is  only  one 
class  in  the  community  that  thinks  more  about 
money  than  the  rich,  and  that  is  the  poor.  The 
poor  can  think  of  nothing  else.  That  is  the  mis- 
ery of  being  poor.  What  Jesus  does  say  is  that 
man  reaches  his  perfection,  not  through  what  he 
has,  not  even  through  what  he  does,  but  entirely 
through  what  he  is.  And  so  the  wealthy  young 
man  who  comes  to  Jesus  is  represented  as  a  thor- 
oughly good  citizen,  who  has  broken  none  of  the 
laws  of  his  state,  none  of  the  commandments  of  his 
religion.  He  is  quite  respectable,  in  the  ordinary 
sense  of  that  extraordinary  word.  Jesus  says  to 
him,  "You  should  give  up  private  property.  It 
hinders  you  from  realising  your  perfection.  It  is  a 
drag  upon  you.  It  is  a  burden.  Your  personality 
does  not  need  it.  It  is  within  you,  and  not  outside 
of  you,  that  you  will  find  what  you  really  are,  and 
what  you  really  want."  To  His  own  friends  He 
says  the  same  thing.  He  tells  them  to  be  them- 
selves, and  not  to  be  always  worrying  about  other 
things.  What  do  other  things  matter?  Man  is 
complete  in  himself.    When  they  go  into  the  world, 


SOUL  OF  MAN  UXDER  SOCIALISM.  139 

the  -world  will  disagree  with  them.  That  is  in- 
evitable. The  world  hates  Individualism.  But  this 
is  not  to  trouble  them.  They  are  to  be  calm  and 
self-centred.  If  a  man  takes  their  cloak,  they  are 
to  give  him  their  coat,  just  to  show  that  material 
things  are  of  no  importance.  If  people  abuse  them, 
they  are  not  to  answer  back.  "What  does  it  signify  ? 
The  things  people  say  of  a  man  do  not  alter  a  man. 
He  is  what  he  is.  Public  opinion  is  of  no  value 
whatsoever.  Even  if  people  employ  actual  violence, 
they  are  not  to  be  violent  in  turn.  That  would  be 
to  fall  to  the  same  low  level.  After  all,  even  in 
prison,  a  man  can  be  quite  free.  His  soul  can  be 
free.  His  personality  can  be  untroubled.  He  can 
be  at  peace.  And,  above  all  things,  they  are  not 
to  interfere  with  other  people  or  judge  them  in  any 
way.  Personality  is  a  very  mysterious  thing.  A 
man  cannot  always  be  estimated  by  what  he  does. 
He  may  keep  the  law,  and  yet  be  worthless.  He 
may  break  the  law,  and  yet  be  fine.  He  may  be 
bad,  without  ever  doing  anything  bad.  He  may 
commit  a  sin  against  society,  and  yet  realise 
through  that  sin  his  true  perfection. 

There  was  a  woman  who  was  taken  in  adultery. 
We  are  not  told  the  history  of  her  love,  but  that 
love  must  have  been  very  great ;  for  Jesus  said  that 


140  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

her  sins  were  forgiven  her,  not  because  she  re- 
pented, but  because  her  love  was  so  intense  and 
wonderful.  Later  on,  a  short  time  before  His  death, 
as  He  sat  at  a  feast,  the  woman  came  in  and  poured 
costly  perfumes  on  His  hair.  His  friends  tried  to 
interfere  with  her,  and  said  that  it  was  an  extrava- 
gance, and  that  the  money  that  the  perfume  cost 
should  have  been  expended  on  charitable  relief  of 
people  in  want,  or  something  of  that  kind.  Jesus 
did  not  accept  that  view.  He  pointed  out  that  the 
material  needs  of  Man  were  great  and  very  perma- 
nent, but  that  the  spiritual  needs  of  Man  were 
greater  still,  and  that  in  one  divine  moment,  and 
by  selecting  its  own  mode  of  expression,  a  person- 
ality might  make  itself  perfect.  The  world  wor- 
ships the  woman,  even  now,  as  a  saint. 

Yes;  there  are  suggestive  things  in  Individual- 
ism. Socialism  annihilates  family  life,  for  in- 
stance. With  the  abolition  of  private  property, 
marriage  in  its  present  form  must  disappear.  This 
is  part  of  the  programme.  Individualism  accepts 
this  and  makes  it  fine.  It  converts  the  abolition  of 
legal  restraint  into  a  form  of  freedom  that  will 
help  the  full  development  of  personality,  and  make 
the  love  of  man  and  woman  more  wonderful,  more 
beautiful,  and  more  ennobling.    Jesus  knew  this. 


Page  141 


SOUL  OF  MAN  UNDER  SOCIALISM.  141 

He  rejected  the  claims  of  family  life,  although  they 
existed  in  His  day  and  community  in  a  very 
marked  form.  "Who  is  my  mother?  Who  are 
my  brothers  ?"  He  said,  when  He  was  told  that  they 
wished  to  speak  to  Him.  When  one  of  His  followers 
asked  leave  to  go  and  bury  his  father,  "Let  the  dead 
bury  the  dead,"  was  His  terrible  answer.  He  would 
allow  no  claim  whatsoever  to  be  made  on  per- 
sonality. 

And  so  he  who  would  lead  a  Christ-like  life  is 
he  who  is  perfectly  and  absolutely  himself.  He 
may  be  a  great  poet,  or  a  great  man  of  science ;  or 
a  young  student  at  a  University,  or  one  who 
watches  sheep  upon  a  moor ;  or  a  maker  of  dramas, 
like  Shakespeare,  or  a  thinker  about  God,  like 
Spinoza;  or  a  child  who  plays  in  a  garden,  or  a 
fisherman  who  throws  his  nets  into  the  sea.  It 
does  not  matter  what  he  is,  as  long  as  he  realises 
the  perfection  of  the  soul  that  is  within  him.  All 
imitation  in  morals  and  in  life  is  wrong.  Through 
the  streets  of  Jerusalem  at  the  present  day  crawls 
one  who  is  mad  and  carries  a  wooden  cross  on  his 
shoulders.  He  is  a  symbol  of  the  lives  that  are 
marred  by  imitation.  Father  Damien  was  Christ- 
like when  he  went  out  to  live  with  the  lepers,  be- 
cause in  such  service  he  realised  fully  what  was  best 


142  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

in  him.  But  he  was  not  more  Christ-like  than 
Wagner,  when  he  realised  his  soul  in  music;  or 
than  Shelley,  when  he  realised  his  soul  in  song. 
There  is  no  one  type  for  man.  There  are  as  many 
perfections  as  there  are  imperfect  men.  And  while 
to  the  claims  of  charity  a  man  may  yield  and  yet 
be  free,  to  the  claims  of  conformity  no  man  may 
yield  and  remain  free  at  all. 

Individualism,  then,  is  what  through  Socialism 
we  are  to  attain  to.  As  a  natural  result  the  State 
must  give  up  all  idea  of  government.  It  must  give 
it  up  because,  as  a  wise  man  once  said  many  cen- 
turies before  Christ,  there  is  such  a  thing  as  leav- 
ing mankind  alone ;  there  is  no  such  thing  as  gov- 
erning mankind.  All  modes  of  government  are 
failures.  Despotism  is  unjust  to  everybody,  in- 
cluding the  despot,  who  was  probably  made  for 
better  things.  Oligarchies  are  unjust  to  the  many, 
and  ochlocracies  are  unjust  to  the  few.  High  hopes 
were  once  formed  of  democracy;  but  democracy 
means  simply  the  bludgeoning  of  the  people  by 
the  people  for  the  people.  It  has  been  found  out. 
I  must  say  that  it  was  high  time,  for  all  authority 
is  quite  degrading.  It  degrades  those  who 
exercise  it,  and  degrades  those  over  whom 
it  is  exercised.    When  it  is  violently,  grossly,  and 


SOUL  OF  MAN  UNDEK  SOCIALISM.  143 

cruelly  used,  it  produces  a  good  effect,  by  creating, 
or  at  any  rate  bringing  out,  the  spirit  of  revolt  and 
individualism  that  is  to  kill  it.  When  it  is  used 
with  a  certain  amount  of  kindness,  and  accom- 
panied by  prizes  and  rewards,  it  is  dreadfully 
demoralising.  People,  in  that  case,  are  less  con- 
scious of  the  horrible  pressure  that  is  being  put  on 
them,  and  so  go  through  their  lives  in  a  sort  of 
coarse  comfort,  like  petted  animals,  without  ever 
realising  that  they  are  probably  thinking  other  peo- 
ple's thoughts,  living  by  other  people's  standards, 
wearing  practically  what  one  may  call  other  peo- 
ple's second-hand  clothes,  and  never  being  them- 
selves for  a  single  moment.  "He  who  would  be 
free,"  says  a  fine  thinker,  "must  not  conform.'"' 
And  authority,  by  bribing  people  to  conform,  pro- 
duces a  very  gross  kind  of  overfed  barbarism 
amongst  us. 

With  authority,  punishment  will  pass  away. 
This  will  be  a  great  gain — a  gain,  in  fact,  of  in- 
calculable value.  As  one  reads  history,  not  in  the 
expurgated  editions  written  for  schoolboys  and 
passmen,  but  in  the  original  authorities  of  each 
time,  one  is  absolutely  sickened,  not  by  the  crimes 
that  the  wicked  have  committed,  but  by  the  pun- 
ishments that  the  good  have  inflicted ;  and  a  com- 


144  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

munity  is  infinitely  more  brutalised  by  the  habitual 
employment  of  punishment  than  it  is  by  the  oc- 
casional occurrence  of  crime.  It  obviously  follows 
that  the  more  punishment  is  inflicted  the  more 
crime  is  produced,  and  most  modern  legislation  has 
clearly  recognised  this,  and  has  made  it  its  task  to 
diminish  punishment  as  far  as  it  thinks  it  can. 
Wherever  it  has  really  diminished  it  the  results 
have  always  been  extremely  good.  The  less  pun- 
ishment the  less  crime.  When  there  is  no  punish- 
ment at  all,  crime  will  either  cease  to  exist,  or,  if  it 
occurs,  will  be  treated  by  physicians  as  a  very  dis- 
tressing form  of  dementia,  to  be  cured  by  care  and 
kindness.  For  what  are  called  criminals  nowadays 
are  not  criminals  at  all.  Starvation,  and  not  sin, 
is  the  parent  of  modern  crime.  That  indeed  is  the 
reason  why  our  criminals  are,  as  a  class,  so  abso- 
lutely uninteresting  from  any  psychological  point 
of  view.  They  are  not  marvellous  Macbeths  and 
terrible  Vautrins.  They  are  merely  what  ordinary, 
respectable,  commonplace  people  would  be  if  they 
had  not  got  enough  to  eat.  When  private  property 
is  abolished  there  will  be  no  necessity  for  crime,  no 
demand  for  it ;  it  will  cease  to  exist.  Of  course,  all 
crimes  are  not  crimes  against  property,  though  such 
are  the  crimes  that  the  English  law,  valuing  what 


SOUL  OF  MAN  UNDER  SOCIALISM.  145 

a  man  has  more  than  what  a  man  is,  punishes  with 
the  harshest  and  most  horrible  severity,  if  we  except 
the  crime  of  murder,  and  regard  death  as  worse 
than  penal  servitude,  a  point  on  which  our  crimi- 
nals, I  believe,  disagree.  But  though  a  crime  may 
not  be  against  property,  it  may  spring  from  the 
misery  and  rage  and  depression  produced  by  our 
wrong  system  of  property-holding,  and  so,  when 
that  system  is  abolished,  will  disappear.  When 
each  member  of  the  community  has  sufficient  for 
his  wants,  and  is  not  interfered  with  by  his  neigh- 
bour, it  will  not  be  an  object  of  any  interest  to  him 
to  interfere  with  any  one  else.  Jealousy,  which  is 
an  extraordinary  source  of  crime  in  modern  life, 
is  an  emotion  closely  bound  up  with  our  conceptions 
of  property,  and  under  Socialism  and  Individual- 
ism will  die  out.  It  is  remarkable  that  in  com- 
munistic tribes  jealousy  is  entirely  unknown. 

Now,  as  the  State  is  not  to  govern,  it  may  be 
asked  what  the  State  is  to  do.  The  State  is  to  be 
a  voluntary  association  that  will  organise  labour, 
and  be  the  manufacturer  and  distributor  of  neces- 
sary commodities.  The  State  is  to  make  what  is 
useful.  The  individual  is  to  make  what  is  beauti- 
ful. And  as  I  have  mentioned  the  word  labour,  I 
cannot  help  saying  that  a  great  deal  of  nonsense  is 


146  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

being  written  and  talked  nowadays  about  the  dig- 
nity of  manual  labour.  There  is  nothing  necessar- 
ily dignified  about  manual  labour  at  all,  and  most 
of  it  is  absolutely  degrading.  It  is  mentally  and 
morally  injurious  to  man  to  do  anj^thing  in  which 
he  does  not  find  pleasure,  and  many  forms  of  la- 
bour are  quite  pleasureless  activities,  and  should 
be  regarded  as  such.  To  sweep  a  slushy  crossing 
for  eight  hours  on  a  day  when  the  east  wind  is 
blowing  is  a  disgusting  occupation.  To  sweep  it 
with  mental,  moral,  or  physical  dignity  seems  to 
me  to  be  impossible.  To  sweep  it  with  joy  would 
be  appalling.  Man  is  made  for  something  better 
than  disturbing  dirt.  All  work  of  that  kind  should 
be  done  by  a  machine. 

And  I  have  no  doubt  that  it  will  be  so.  Up  to 
the  present,  man  has  been,  to  a  certain  extent,  the 
slave  of  machinery,  and  there  is  something  tragic 
in  the  fact  that  as  soon  as  man  had  invented  a  ma- 
chine to  do  his  work  he  began  to  starve.  This,  how- 
ever, is,  of  course,  the  result  of  our  property  system 
and  our  system  of  competition.  One  man  owns  a 
machine  which  does  the  work  of  five  hundred  men. 
Five  hundred  men  are,  in  consequence,  thrown  out 
of  employment,  and,  having  no  work  to  do,  become 
hungry  and  take  to  thieving.    The  one  man  secures 


SOUL  OF  MAX  UNDER  SOCIALISM.  147 

the  produce  of  the  machine  and  keeps  it,  and  has 
five  hundred  times  as  much  as  he  should  have,  and 
probably,  which  is  of  much  more  importance,  a 
great  deal  more  than  he  really  wants.  "Were  that 
machine  the  property  of  all,  every  one  would  bene- 
fit by  it.  It  would  be  an  immense  advantage  to  the 
community.  All  unintellectual  labour,  all  monot- 
onous, dull  labour,  all  labour  that  deals  with  dreacU 
ful  things,  and  involves  unpleasant  conditions,  must 
be  done  by  machinery.  Machinery  must  work  for 
us  in  coal  mines,  and  do  all  sanitary  services,  and 
be  the  stoker  of  steamers,  and  clean  the  streets,  and 
run  messages  on  wet  days,  and  do  anything  that  is 
tedious  or  distressing.  At  present  machinery  com- 
petes against  man.  Under  proper  conditions  ma- 
chinery will  serve  man.  There  is  no  doubt  at  all 
that  this  is  the  future  of  machinery,  and  just  as 
trees  grow  while  the  country  gentleman  is  asleep, 
so  while  Humanity  will  be  amusing  itself,  or  en- 
joying cultivated  leisure — which,  and  not  labour, 
is  the  aim  of  man — or  making  beautiful  things,  or 
reading  beautiful  things,  or  simply  contemplating 
the  world  with  admiration  and  delight,  machinery 
will  be  doing  all  the  necessary  and  unpleasant  work. 
The  fact  is,  that  civilisation  requires  slaves.  The 
Greeks  were  quite  right  there.     Unless  there  are 


148  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

slaves  to  do  the  ugly,  horrible,  uninteresting  work, 
culture  and  contemplation  become  almost  impos- 
sible. Human  slavery  is  wrong,  insecure,  and  de- 
moralising. On  mechanical  slavery,  on  the  slavery 
of  the  machine,  the  future  of  the  world  depends. 
And  when  scientific  men  are  no  longer  called  upon 
to  go  down  to  a  depressing  East  End  and  distribute 
bad  cocoa  and  worse  blankets  to  starving  people, 
they  will  have  delightful  leisure  in  which  to  devise 
wonderful  and  marvellous  things  for  their  own 
joy  and  the  joy  of  every  one  else.  There  will  be 
great  storages  of  force  for  every  city,  and  for  every 
house  if  required,  and  this  force  man  will  convert 
into  heat,  light,  or  motion,  according  to  his  needs. 
Is  this  Utopian  ?  A  map  of  the  world  that  does  not 
include  Utopia  is  not  worth  even  glancing  at,  for  it 
leaves  out  the  one  country  at  which  Humanity  is 
always  landing.  And  when  Humanity  lands  there, 
it  looks  out,  and,  seeing  a  better  country,  sets  sail. 
Progress  is  the  realisation  of  Utopias. 

Now,  I  have  said  that  the  community  by  means 
of  organisation  of  machinery  will  supply  the  useful 
things,  and  that  the  beautiful  things  will  be  made 
by  the  individual.  This  is  not  merely  necessary, 
but  it  is  the  only  possible  way  by  which  we  can  get 
either  the  one  or  the  other.    An  individual  who  has 


SOUL  OF  MAN  UNDEK  SOCIALISM.  149 

to  make  things  for  the  use  of  others,  and  with  ref- 
erence to  their  wants  and  their  wishes,  does  not 
work  with  interest,  and  consequently  cannot  put 
into  his  work  what  is  best  in  him.  Upon  the  other 
hand,  whenever  a  community  or  a  powerful  section 
of  a  community,  or  a  government  of  any  kind,  at- 
tempts to  dictate  to  the  artist  what  he  is  to  do,  Art 
either  entirely  vanishes,  or  becomes  stereotyped,  or 
degenerates  into  a  low  and  ignoble  form  of  craft. 
A  work  of  art  is  the  unique  result  of  a  unique 
temperament.  Its  beauty  comes  from  the  fact 
that  the  author  is  what  he  is.  It  has  nothing  to  do 
with  the  fact  that  other  people  want  what  they 
want.  Indeed,  the  moment  that  an  artist  takes 
notice  of  what  other  people  want,  and  tries  to  sup- 
ply the  demand,  he  ceases  to  be  an  artist,  and  be- 
comes a  dull  or  an  amusing  craftsman,  an  honest 
or  a  dishonest  tradesman.  He  has  no  further  claim 
to  be  considered  as  an  artist.  Art  is  the  most  in- 
tense mode  of  individualism  that  the  world  has 
known.  I  am  inclined  to  say  that  it  is  the  only 
real  mode  of  individualism  that  the  world  has 
known.  Crime,  which,  under  certain  conditions, 
may  seem  to  have  created  individualism,  must  take 
cognisance  of  other  people  and  interfere  with  them. 
It  belongs  to  the  sphere  of  action.    But  alone,  with- 


150  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

out  any  reference  to  his  neighbours,  without  any 
interference,  the  artist  can  fashion  a  beautiful 
thing ;  and  if  he  does  not  do  it  solely  for  his  own 
pleasure,  he  is  not  an  artist  at  all. 

And  it  is  to  be  noted  that  it  is  the  fact 
that  Art  is  this  intense  form  of  individualism 
that  makes  the  public  try  to  exercise  over  it  an 
authority  that  is  as  immoral  as  it  is  ridicu- 
lous, and  as  corrupting  as  it  is  contempti- 
ble. It  is  not  quite  their  fault.  The  public 
have  always,  and  in  every  age,  been  badly  brought 
up.  They  are  continually  asking  Art  to  be  popular, 
to  please  their  want  of  taste,  to  flatter  their  ab- 
surd vanity,  to  tell  them  what  they  have  been  told 
before,  to  show  them  what  they  ought  to  be  tired  of 
seeing,  to  amuse  them  when  they  feel  heavy  after 
eating  too  much,  and  to  distract  their  thoughts 
when  they  are  wearied  of  their  own  stupidity. 
Now  Art  should  never  try  to  be  popular.  The  pub- 
lic should  try  to  make  itself  artistic.  There  is  a 
very  wide  difference.  If  a  man  of  science  were 
told  that  the  results  of  his  experiments,  and  the 
conclusions  that  he  arrived  at,  should  be  of  such  a 
character  that  they  would  not  upset  the  received 
popular  notions  on  the  subject,  or  disturb  popular 
prejudice,  or  hurt  the  sensibilities  of  people  who 


SOUL  OF  MAN  UNDER  SOCIALISM.  151 

knew  nothing  about  science;  if  a  philosopher  were 
told  that  he  had  a  perfect  right  to  speculate  in  the 
highest  spheres  of  thought,  provided  that  he  ar- 
rived at  the  same  conclusions  as  were  held  by  those 
who  had  never  thought  in  any  sphere  at  all — well, 
nowadays  the  man  of  science  and  the  philosopher 
would  be  considerabfy  amused.  Yet  it  is  really  a 
very  few  years  since  both  philosophy  and  science 
were  subjected  to  brutal  popular  control,  to  au- 
thority in  fact — the  authority  of  either  the  general 
ignorance  of  the  community,  or  the  terror  and 
greed  for  power  of  an  ecclesiastical  or  govern- 
mental class.  Of  course,  we  have  to  a  very  great 
extent  got  rid  of  any  attempt  on  the  part  of  the 
community  or  the  Church,  or  the  Government,  to 
interfere  with  the  individualism  of  speculative 
thought,  but  the  attempt  to  interfere  with  the  in- 
dividualism of  imaginative  art  still  lingers.  In 
fact,  it  does  more  than  linger :  it  is  aggressive,  of- 
fensive, and  brutalising. 

In  England,  the  arts  that  have  escaped  lest  are 
the  arts  in  which  the  public  take  no  interest. 
Poetry  is  an  instance  of  what  I  mean.  We  have 
been  able  to  have  fine  poetry  in  England  because 
the  public  do  not  read  it,  and  consequently  do  not 
influence  it.     The  public  like  to  insult  poets  be- 


152  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

cause  they  are  individual,  but  once  they  have  in- 
sulted them  they  leave  them  alone.  In  the  case  of 
the  novel  and  the  drama,  arts  in  which  the  public 
do  take  an  interest,  the  result  of  the  exercise  of 
popular  authority  has  been  absolutely  ridiculous. 
No  country  produces  such  badly  "written  fiction, 
such  tedious,  common  work  in  the  novel  form,  such 
silly,  vulgar  plays  as  England.  It  must  necessar- 
ily be  so.  The  popular  standard  is  of  such  a  char- 
acter that  no  artist  can  get  to  it.  It  is  at  once  too 
easy  and  too  difficult  to  be  a  popular  novelist.  It  is 
too  easy,  because  the  requirements  of  the  public  as 
far  as  plot,  style,  psychology,  treatment  of  life,  and 
treatment  of  literature  are  concerned,  are  within 
the  reach  of  the  very  meanest  capacity  and  the  most 
uncultivated  mind.  It  is  too  difficult,  because  to 
meet  such  requirements  the  artist  would  have  to 
do  violence  to  his  temperament,  would  have  to 
write  not  for  the  artistic  joy  of  writing,  but  for 
the  amusement  of  half-educated  people,  and  so 
would  have  to  suppress  his  individualism,  forget  his 
culture,  annihilate  his  style,  and  surrender  every- 
thing that  is  valuable  in  him.  In  the  case  of  the 
drama,  things  are  a  little  better :  the  theatre-going 
public  like  the  obvious,  it  is  true,  but  they  do  not 
like  the  tedious;  and  burlesque  and  farcical  com- 


SOUL  OF  MAN  UNDER  SOCIALISM.  153 

edy,  the  two  most  popular  forms,  are  distinct  forms 
of  art.  Delightful  work  may  be  produced  under 
burlesque  and  farcical  conditions,  and  in  work  of 
this  kind  the  artist  in  England  is  allowed  very 
great  freedom.  It  is  when  one  comes  to  the  higher 
forms  of  the  drama  that  the  result  of  popular  con- 
trol is  seen.  The  one  thing  that  the  public  dislike 
is  novelty.  Any  attempt  to  extend  the  subject- 
matter  of  art  is  extremely  distasteful  to  the  public ; 
and  yet  the  vitality  and  progress  of  art  depend  in  a 
large  measure  on  the  continual  extension  of  sub- 
ject-matter. The  public  dislike  novelty  because 
they  are  afraid  of  it.  It  represents  to  them  a  mode 
of  Individualism,  an  assertion  on  the  part  of  the 
artist  that  he  selects  his  own  subject,  and  treats  it 
as  he  chooses.  The  public  are  quite  right  in  their 
attitude.  Art  is  Individualism,  and  Individualism 
is  a  disturbing  and  disintegrating  force.  Therein 
lies  its  immense  value.  For  what  it  seeks  to  disturb 
is  monotony  of  type,  slavery  of  custom,  tyranny  of 
habit,  and  the  reduction  of  man  to  the  level  of  a 
machine.  In  Art,  the  public  accept  what  has  been, 
because  they  cannot  alter  it,  not  because  they  ap- 
preciate it.  They  swallow  their  classics  whole,  and 
never  taste  them.  They  endure  them  as  the  in- 
evitable, and,  as  they  cannot  mar  them,  they  mouth 


154  THE  WKITINGS  OF  OSCAE  WILDE. 

about  them.  Strangely  enough,  or  not  strangely, 
according  to  one's  own  views,  this  acceptance  of  the 
classics  does  a  great  deal  of  harm.  The  uncritical 
admiration  of  the  Bible  and  Shakespeare  in  Eng- 
land is  an  instance  of  what  I  mean.  With  regard 
to  the  Bible,  considerations  of  ecclesiastical  author- 
ity enter  into  the  matter,  so  that  I  need  not  dwell 
upon  the  point. 

But  in  the  case  of  Shakespeare  it  is  quite  obvious 
that  the  public  really  see  neither  the  beauties  nor 
the  defects  of  his  plays.  If  they  saw  the  beauties, 
they  would  not  object  to  the  development  of  the 
drama ;  and  if  they  saw  the  defects,  they  would  not 
object  to  the  development  of  the  drama  either. 
The  fact  is,  the  public  make  use  of  the  classics  of 
a  country  as  a  means  of  checking  the  progress  of 
Art.  They  degrade  the  classics  into  authorities. 
They  use  them  as  bludgeons  for  preventing  the 
free  expression  of  Beauty  in  new  forms.  They  are 
always  asking  a  writer  why  he  does  not  write  like 
somebody  else,  or  a  painter  why  he  does  not  paint 
like  somebody  else,  quite  oblivious  of  the  fact  that 
if  either  of  them  did  anything  of  the  kind  he  would 
cease  to  be  an  artist.  A  fresh  mode  of  Beauty  is 
absolutely  distasteful  to  them,  and  whenever  it  ap- 
pears  they   get   so   angry   and   bewildered   that 


SOUL  OF  MAN  UNDER  SOCIALISM.  155 

they  always  use  two  stupid  expressions — one  is 
that  the  work  of  art  is  grossly  unintelligible;  the 
other,  that  the  work  of  art  is  grossly  immoral. 
What  they  mean  by  these  words  seems  to  me  to  be 
this.  When  they  say  a  work  is  grossly  unintelli- 
gible, they  mean  that  the  artist  has  said  or  made  a 
beautiful  thing  that  is  new;  when  they  describe  a 
work  as  grossly  immoral,  they  mean  that  the  artist 
has  said  or  made  a  beautiful  thing  that  is  true. 
The  former  expression  has  reference  to  style;  the 
latter  to  subject-matter.  But  they  probably  use 
the  words  very  vaguely,  as  an  ordinary  mob  will 
use  ready-made  paving-stones.  There  is  not  a 
single  real  poet  or  prose  writer  of  this  century,  for 
instance,  on  whom  the  British  public  have  not 
solemnly  conferred  diplomas  of  immorality,  and 
these  diplomas  practically  take  the  place,  with  us, 
of  what  in  France  is  the  formal  recognition  of  an 
Academy  of  Letters,  and  fortunately  make  the  es- 
tablishment of  such  an  institution  quite  unneces- 
sary in  England.  Of  course,  the  public  are  very 
reckless  in  their  use  of  the  word.  That  they 
should  have  called  Wordsworth  an  immoral  poet 
was  only  to  be  expected.  Wordsworth  was  a  poet. 
But  that  they  should  have  called  Charles  Kingsley 
an  immoral  novelist  is  extraordinary.    Kingsley's 


156  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

prose  was  not  of  a  very  fine  quality.  Still,  there 
is  the  word,  and  they  use  it  as  best  they  can.  An 
artist  is,  of  course,  not  disturbed  by  it.  The  true 
artist  is  a  man  who  believes  absolutely  in  himself, 
because  he  is  absolutely  himself.  But  I  can  fancy 
that  if  an  artist  produced  a  work  of  art  in  England 
that  immediately  on  its  appearance  was  recognised 
by  the  public,  through  their  medium,  which  is  the 
public  press,  as  a  work  that  was  quite  intelligible 
and  highly  moral,  he  would  begin  to  seriously 
question  whether  in  its  creation  he  had  really  been 
himself  at  all,  and  consequently  whether  the  work 
was  not  quite  unworthy  of  him,  and  either  of  a 
thoroughly  second-rate  order,  or  of  no  artistic  value 
whatsoever. 

Perhaps,  however,  I  have  wronged  the  public  in 
limiting  them  to  such  words  as  "immoral,"  "unin- 
telligible," "exotic,"  and  "unhealthy."  There  is 
one  other  word  that  they  use.  That  word  is  "mor- 
bid." They  do  not  use  it  often.  The  meaning  of 
the  word  is  so  simple  that  they  are  afraid  of  using 
it.  Still,  they  use  it  sometimes,  and,  now  and  then, 
one  comes  across  it  in  popular  newspapers.  It  is, 
of  course,  a  ridiculous  word  to  apply  to  a  work  of 
art.  For  what  is  morbidity  but  a  mood  of  emotion 
or  a  mode  of  thought  that  one  cannot  express? 


SOUL  OF  MAN  UNDER  SOCIALISM.  15? 

The  public  are  all  morbid,  because  the  public  can 
never  find  expression  for  anything.  The  artist  is 
never  morbid.  He  expresses  everything.  He 
stands  outside  his  subject,  and  through  its  me- 
dium produces  incomparable  and  artistic  effects. 
To  call  an  artist  morbid  because  he  deals  with  mor- 
bidity as  his  subject-matter  is  as  silly  as  if  one 
called  Shakespeare  mad  because  he  wrote  King 
Lear. 

On  the  whole,  an  artist  in  England  gains  some- 
thing by  being  attacked.  His  individuality  is  in- 
tensified. He  becomes  more  completely  himself. 
Of  course,  the  attacks  are  very  gross,  very  im- 
pertinent, and  very  contemptible.  But  then  no 
artist  expects  grace  from  the  vulgar  mind,  or  style 
from  the  suburban  intellect.  Vulgarity  and  stu- 
pidity are  two  very  vivid  facts  in  modern  life.  One 
regrets  them,  naturally.  But  there  they  are.  They 
are  subjects  for  study,  like  everything  else.  And 
it  is  only  fair  to  state,  with  regard  to  modern  jour- 
nalists, that  they  always  apologise  to  one  in  private 
for  what  they  have  written  against  one  in  public. 

Within  the  last  few  years  two  other  adjectives,  it 
may  be  mentioned,  have  been  added  to  the  very 
limited  vocabulary  of  art  abuse  that  is  at  the  dis- 
posal of  the  public.    One  is  the  word  "unhealthy," 


158  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

the  other  is  the  word  "exotic."  The  latter  merely 
expresses  the  rage  of  the  momentary  mushroom 
against  the  immortal,  entrancing,  and  exquisitely 
lovely  orchid.  It  is  a  tribute,  but  a  tribute  of  no 
importance.  The  word  "unhealthy/'  however,  ad- 
mits of  analysis.  It  is  a  rather  interesting  word. 
In  fact,  it  is  so  interesting  that  the  people  who  use 
it  do  not  know  what  it  means. 

What  does  it  mean?  What  is  a  healthy  or  an 
unhealthy  work  of  art  ?  All  terms  that  one  applies 
to  a  work  of  art,  provided  that  one  applies  them 
rationally,  have  reference  to  either  its  style  or  its 
subject,  or  to  both  together.  From  the  point  of 
view  of  style,  a  healthy  work  of  art  is  one  whose 
style  recognises  the  beauty  of  the  material  it  em- 
ploys, be  that  material  one  of  words  or  of  bronze, 
of  colour  or  of  ivory,  and  uses  that  beauty  as  a 
factor  in  producing  the  aesthetic  effect.  From  the 
point  of  view  of  subject,  a  healthy  work  of  art  is 
one  the  choice  of  whose  subject  is  conditioned  by 
the  temperament  of  the  artist,  and  comes  directly 
out  of  it.  In  fine,  a  healthy  work  of  art  is  one  that 
has  both  perfection  and  personality.  Of  course, 
form  and  substance  cannot  be  separated  in  a  work 
of  art;  they  are  always  one.  But  for  purposes  of 
analysis,  and  setting  the  wholeness  of  aesthetic  im- 


SOUL  OF  MAX  UNDER  SOCIALISM.  159 

pression  aside  for  a  moment,  we  can  intellectually 
so  separate  them.  An  unhealthy  work  of  art,  on 
the  other  hand,  is  a  work  whose  style  is  obvious, 
old-fashioned,  and  common,  and  whose  subject  is 
deliberately  chosen,  not  because  the  artist  has  any 
pleasure  in  it,  but  because  he  thinks  that  the  public 
will  pay  him  for  it.  In  fact,  the  popular  novel  that 
the  public  calls  healthy  is  always  a  thoroughly  un- 
healthy production;  and  what  the  public  call  an 
unhealthy  novel  is  always  a  beautiful  and  healthy 
work  of  art. 

I  need  hardly  say  that  I  am  not,  for  a  single 
moment,  complaining  that  the  public  and  the  public 
press  misuse  these  words.  I  do  not  see  how,  with  their 
lack  of  comprehension  of  what  Art  is,  they  could 
possibly  use  them  in  the  proper  sense.  I  am  merely- 
pointing  out  the  misuse ;  and  as  for  the  origin  of' 
the  misuse  and  the  meaning  that  lies  behind  it  all,, 
the  explanation  is  very  simple.  It  comes  from  the- 
barbarous  conception  of  authority.  It  comes  from 
the  natural  inability  of  a  community  corrupted  by 
authority  to  understand  or  appreciate  Individual- 
ism. In  a  word,  it  comes  from  that  monstrous  and 
ignorant  thing  that  is  called  Public  Opinion, 
which,  bad  and  well-meaning  as  it  is  when  it  tries 


160  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAE  WILDE. 

to  control  action,  is  infamous  and  of  evil  meaning 
when  it  tries  to  control  Thought  or  Art. 

Indeed,  there  is  much  more  to  he  said  in  favour 
of  the  physical  force  of  the  public  than  there  is  in 
favour  of  the  public's  opinion.  The  former  may 
be  fine.  The  latter  must  be  foolish.  It  is  often 
said  that  force  is  no  argument.  That,  however, 
entirely  depends  on  what  one  wants  to  prove.  Many 
of  the  most  important  problems  of  the  last  few  cen- 
turies, such  as  the  continuance  of  personal  govern- 
ment in  England,  or  feudalism  in  France,  have 
been  solved  entirely  by  means  of  physical  force. 
The  very  violence  of  a  revolution  may  make  the 
public  grand  and  splendid  for  a  moment.  It  was  a 
fatal  day  when  the  public  discovered  that  the  pen  is 
mightier  than  the  paving-stone,  and  can  be  made  as 
offensive  as  the  brick-bat.  They  at  once  sought  for 
the  journalist,  found  him,  developed  him,  and  made 
him  their  industrious  and  well-paid  servant.  It  is 
greatly  to  be  regretted,  for  both  their  sakes.  Be- 
hind the  barricade  there  may  be  much  that  is  noble 
and  heroic.  But  what  is  there  behind  the  leading 
article  but  prejudice,  stupidity,  cant,  and  twaddle? 
And  when  these  four  are  joined  together  they  make 
a  terrible  force,  and  constitute  the  new  authority. 

In  old  days  men  had  the  rack.    Now  they  have 


SOUL  OF  MAN  UNDER  SOCIALISM.  161 

the  press.  That  is  an  improvement  certainly.  But 
still  it  is  very  bad,  and  wrong,  and  demoralising. 
Somebody — was  it  Burke? — called  journalism  the 
fourth  estate.  That  was  true  at  the  time,  no  doubt. 
But  at  the  present  moment  it  really  is  the  only  es- 
tate. It  has  eaten  up  the  other  three.  The  Lords 
Temporal  say  nothing,  the  Lords  Spiritual  have 
nothing  to  say,  and  the  House  of  Commons  has 
nothing  to  say  and  says  it.  We  are  dominated  by 
Journalism.  In  America  the  President  reigns  for 
four  years,  and  Journalism  governs  for  ever  and 
ever.  Fortunately,  in  America  journalism  has  car- 
ried its  authority  to  the  grossest  and  most  brutal 
extreme.  As  a  natural  consequence  it  has  begun  to 
create  a  spirit  of  revolt.  People  are  amused  by  it, 
or  disgusted  by  it,  according  to  their  temperaments. 
But  it  is  no  longer  the  real  force  it  was.  It  is  not 
seriously  treated.  In  England,  Journalism,  not, 
except  in  a  few  well-known  instances,  having  been 
carried  to  such  excesses  of  brutality,  is  still  a 
great  factor,  a  really  remarkable  power.  The 
tyranny  that  it  proposes  to  exercise  over  people's 
private  lives  seems  to  me  to  be  quite  extraordinary. 
The  fact  is,  that  the  public  have  an  insatiable 
curiosity  to  know  everything,  except  what  is  worth 
knowing.    Journalism,  conscious  of  this,  and  hav- 


162  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAE  WILDE. 

ing  tradesmanlike  habits,  supplies  their  demands. 
In  centuries  before  ours  the  public  nailed  the  ears 
of  journalists  to  the  pump.  That  was  quite  hid- 
eous. In  this  century  journalists  have  nailed  their 
own  ears  to  the  keyhole.  That  is  much  worse. 
And  what  aggravates  the  mischief  is  that  the  jour- 
nalists who  are  most  to  blame  are  not  the  amusing 
journalists  who  write  for  what  are  called  Society 
papers.  The  harm  is  done  by  the  serious,  thought- 
ful, earnest  journalists,  who  solemnly,  as  they  are 
doing  at  present,  will  drag  before  the  eyes  of  the 
public  some  incident  in  the  private  life  of  a  great 
statesman,  of  a  man  who  is  a  leader  of  political 
thought  as  he  is  a  creator  of  political  force,  and 
invite  the  public  to  discuss  the  incident,  to  exer- 
cise authority  in  the  matter,  to  give  their  views, 
and  not  merely  to  give  their  views,  but  to  carry 
them  into  action,  to  dictate  to  the  man  upon  all  other 
points,  to  dictate  to  his  party,  to  dictate  to  his 
country;  in  fact,  to  make  themselves  ridiculous, 
offensive,  and  harmful.  The  private  lives  of  men 
and  women  should  not  be  told  to  the  public.  The 
public  have  nothing  to  do  with  them  at  all.  In 
France  they  manage  these  things  better.  There  they 
do  not  allow  the  details  of  the  trials  that  take  place 
in  the  divorce  courts  to  be  published  for  the  amuse- 


SOUL  OF  MAN  UNDER  SOCIALISM.  163 

merit  or  criticism  of  the  public.  All  that  the  public 
are  allowed  to  know  is  that  the  divorce  has  taken 
place  and  was  granted  on  petition  of  one  or  other 
or  both  of  the  married  parties  concerned.  In 
France,  in  fact,  they  limit  the  journalist,  and  allow 
the  artist  almost  perfect  freedom.  Here  we  allow 
absolute  freedom  to  the  journalist,  and  entirely 
limit  the  artist.  English  public  opinion,  that  is 
to  say,  tries  to  constrain  and  impede  and  warp  the 
man  who  makes  things  that  are  beautiful  in  effect, 
and  compels  the  journalist  to  retail  things  that  are 
ugly,  or  disgusting,  or  revolting  in  fact,  so  that 
we  have  the  most  serious  journalists  in  the  world, 
and  the  most  indecent  newspapers.  It  is  no  exag- 
geration to  talk  of  compulsion.  There  are  possibly 
some  journalists  who  take  a  real  pleasure  in  pub- 
lishing horrible  things,  or  who,  being  poor,  look  to 
scandals  as  forming  a  sort  of  permanent  basis  for 
an  income.  But  there  are  other  journalists,  I  feel 
certain,  men  of  education  and  cultivation,  who 
really  dislike  publishing  these  things,  who  know 
that  it  is  wrong  to  do  so,  and  only  do  it  because 
the  unhealthy  conditions  under  which  their  occu- 
pation is  carried  on  oblige  them  to  supply  the  pub- 
lic with  what  the  public  wants,  and  to  compete  with 
other  journalists  in  making  that  supply  as  full  and 


164  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

satisfying  to  the  gross  popular  appetite  as  possible. 
It  is  a  very  degrading  position  for  any  body  of 
educated  men  to  be  placed  in,  and  I  have  no  doubt 
that  most  of  them  feel  it  acutely. 

However,  let  us  leave  what  is  really  a  very  sordid 
side  of  the  subject,  and  return  to  the  question  of 
popular  control  in  the  matter  of  Art,  by  which  I 
mean  Public  Opinion  dictating  to  the  artist  the 
form  which  he  is  to  use,  the  mode  in  which  he  is 
to  use  it,  and  the  materials  with  which  he  is  to 
work.  I  have  pointed  out  that  the  arts  which  have 
escaped  best  in  England  are  the  arts  in  which  the 
public  have  not  been  interested.  They  are,  how- 
ever, interested  in  the  drama,  and  as  a  certain  ad- 
vance has  been  made  in  the  drama  within  the  last 
ten  or  fifteen  years,  it  is  important  to  point  out 
that  this  advance  is  entirely  due  to  a  few  individual 
artists  refusing  to  accept  the  popular  want  of  taste 
as  their  standard,  and  refusing  to  regard  Art  as  a 
mere  matter  of  demand  and  supply.  With  his  mar- 
vellous and  vivid  personality,  with  a  style  that  has 
really  a  true  colour-element  in  it,  with  his  extraor- 
dinary power,  not  over  mere  mimicry,  but  over  im- 
aginative and  intellectual  creation,  Mr.  Irving,  had 
his  sole  object  been  to  give  the  public  what  they 
wanted,  could  have  produced  the  commonest  plays 


SOUL  OF  MAN  UNDER  SOCIALISM.  165 

in  the  commonest  manner,  and  made  as  much  suc- 
cess and  money  as  a  man  could  possibly  desire. 
But  his  object  was  not  that.  His  object  was  to 
realise  his  own  perfection  as  an  artist,  under  cer- 
tain conditions,  and  in  certain  forms  of  Art.  At 
first  he  appealed  to  the  few :  now  he  has  educated 
the  many.  He  has  created  in  the  public  both  taste 
and  temperament.  The  public  appreciate  his 
artistic  success  immensely.  I  often  wonder,  how- 
ever, whether  the  public  understand  that  that  suc- 
cess is  entirely  due  to  the  fact  that  he  did  not  ac- 
cept their  standard,  but  realised  his  own.  With  their 
standard  the  Lyceum  would  have  been  a  sort  of 
second-rate  booth,  as  some  of  the  popular  theatres 
in  London  are  at  present.  Whether  they  under- 
stand it  or  not,  the  fact,  however,  remains,  that  taste 
and  temperament  have  to  a  certain  extent  been 
created  in  the  public,  and  that  the  public  are  cap- 
able of  developing  these  qualities.  The  problem 
then  is,  Why  do  not  the  public  become  more  civil- 
ised ?  They'  have  the  capacity.  What  stops  them  ? 
The  thing  that  stops  them,  it  must  be  said  again, 
is  their  desire  to  exercise  authority  over  the  artist 
and  over  works  of  art.  To  certain  theatres,  such  as 
the  Lyceum  and  the  Haymarket,  the  public  seem 
to  come  in  a  proper  mood.    In  both  of  these  thea- 


166  THE  WHITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

tres  there  have  been  individual  artists,  who  have 
succeeded  in  creating  in  their  audiences — and 
every  theatre  in  London  has  its  own  audience — the 
temperament  to  which  Art  appeals.  And  what  is 
that  temperament?  It  is  the  temperament  of  re- 
ceptivity.    That  is  all. 

If  a  man  approaches  a  work  of  art  with  any 
desire  to  exercise  authority  over  it  and  the  artist, 
he  approaches  it  in  such  a  spirit  that  he  cannot  re- 
ceive any  artistic  impression  from  it  at  all.  The 
work  of  art  is  to  dominate  the  spectator:  the  spec- 
tator is  not  to  dominate  the  work  of  art.  The 
spectator  is  to  be  receptive.  He  is  to  be  the  violin 
on  which  the  master  is  to  play.  And  the  more 
completely  he  can  suppress  his  own  silly  views,  his 
own  foolish  prejudices,  his  own  absurd  ideas  of 
what  Art  should  be  or  should  not  be,  the  more 
likely  he  is  to  understand  and  appreciate  the  work 
of  art  in  question.  This  is,  of  course,  quite  obvious 
in  the  case  of  the  vulgar  theatre-going  public  of 
English  men  and  women.  But  it  is  equally  true 
of  what  are  called  educated  people.  For  an  edu- 
cated person's  ideas  of  Art  are  drawn  naturally 
from  what  Art  has  been,  whereas  the  new  work  of 
art  is  beautiful  by  being  what  Art  has  never  been ; 
and  to  measure  it  by  the  standard  of  the  past  is  to 


SOUL  OF  MAN  UNDER  SOCIALISM.  167 

measure  it  by  a  standard  on  the  rejection  of  which 
its  real  perfection  depends.  A  temperament  cap- 
able of  receiving,  through  an  imaginative  medium, 
and  under  imaginative  conditions,  new  and  beau- 
tiful impressions  is  the  only  temperament  that  can 
appreciate  a  work  of  art.  And  true  as  this  is  in 
the  case  of  the  appreciation  of  sculpture  and  paint- 
ing, it  is  still  more  true  of  the  appreciation  of  such 
arts  as  the  drama.  For  a  picture  and  a  statue  are 
not  at  war  with  Time.  They  take  no  count  of  its 
succession.  In  one  moment  their  unity  may  be 
apprehended.  In  the  case  of  literature  it  is  differ- 
ent. Time  must  be  traversed  before  the  unity  of 
effect  is  realised.  And  so,  in  the  drama,  there  may 
occur  in  the  first  act  of  the  play  something  whose 
real  artistic  value  may  not  be  evident  to  the  spec- 
tator till  the  third  or  fourth  act  is  reached.  Is  the 
silly  fellow  to  get  angry  and  call  out,  and  disturb 
the  play,  and  annoy  the  artists  ?  No.  The  honest 
man  is  to  sit  quietly,  and  know  the  delightful  emo- 
tions of  wonder,  curiosity,  and  suspense.  He  is 
not  to  go  to  the  play  to  lose  a  vulgar  temper.  He 
is  to  go  to  the  play  to  realise  an  artistic  tempera- 
ment. He  is  to  go  to  the  play  to  gain  an  artistic 
temperament.  He  is  not  the  arbiter  of  the  work 
of  art.    He  is  one  who  is  admitted  to  contemplate 


168  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAE  WILDE. 

the  work  of  art,  and,  if  the  work  be  fine,  to  forget 
in  its  contemplation  all  the  egotism  that  mars  him 
— the  egotism  of  his  ignorance,  or  the  egotism  of 
his  information.  This  point  about  the  drama  is 
hardly,  I  think,  sufficiently  recognised.  I  can  quite 
understand  that  were  Macbeth  produced  for  the 
first  time  before  a  modern  London  audience,  many 
of  the  people  present  would  strongly  and  vigor- 
ously object  to  the  introduction  of  the  witches  in 
the  first  act,  with  their  grotesque  phrases  and  their 
ridiculous  words.  But  when  the  play  is  over  one 
realises  that  the  laughter  of  the  witches  in  Mac- 
beth is  as  terrible  as  the  laughter  of  madness  in 
Lear,  more  terrible  than  the  laughter  of  Iago  in 
the  tragedy  of  the  Moor.  No  spectator  of  art  needs 
a  more  perfect  mood  of  receptivity  than  the  spec- 
tator of  a  play.  The  moment  he  seeks  to  exercise 
authority  he  becomes  the  avowed  enemy  of  Art  and 
of  himself.  Art  does  not  mind.  It  is  he  who 
suffers. 

With  the  novel  it  is  the  same  thing.  Popular 
authority  and  the  recognition  of  popular  authority 
are  fatal.  Thackeray's  Esmond  is  a  beautiful 
work  of  art  because  he  wrote  it  to  please  himself. 
In  his  other  novels,  in  Pendennis,  in  Philip, 
in  Vanity  Fair  even,  at  times,  he  is  too  conscious 


SOUL  OF  MAN  UNDER  SOCIALISM.  169 

of  the  public,  and  spoils  his  work  by  appealing  di- 
rectly to  the  sympathies  of  the  public,  or  by  directly 
mocking  at  them.  A  true  artist  takes  no  notice 
whatever  of  the  public.  The  public  are  to  him 
non-existent.  He  has  no  poppied  or  honeyed  cakes 
through  which  to  give  the  monster  sleep  or  susten- 
ance. He  leaves  that  to  the  popular  novelist.  One 
incomparable  novelist  we  have  now  in  England, 
Mr.  George  Meredith.  There  are  better  artists  in 
France,  but  France  has  no  one  whose  view  of  life 
is  so  large,  so  varied,  so  imaginatively  true.  There 
are  tellers  of  stories  in  Russia  who  have  a  more 
vivid  sense  of  what  pain  in  fiction  may  be.  But 
to  him  belongs  philosophy  in  fiction.  His  people 
not  merely  live,  but  they  live  in  thought.  One  can 
see  them  from  myriad  points  of  view.  They  are 
suggestive.  There  is  soul  in  them  and  around 
them.  They  are  interpretative  and  symbolic.  And 
he  who  made  them,  those  wonderful  quickly  mov- 
ing figures,  made  them  for  his  own  pleasure,  and 
has  never  asked  the  public  what  they  wanted,  has 
never  cared  to  know  what  they  wanted,  has  never 
allowed  the  public  to  dictate  to  him  or  influence 
him  in  any  way,  but  has  gone  on  intensifying  his 
own  personality,  and  producing  his  own  individual 
work.     At  first  none  came  to  him.    That  did  not 


170  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

matter.  Then  the  few  came  to  him.  That  did  not 
change  him.  The  many  have  come  now.  He  is 
still  the  same.    He  is  an  incomparable  novelist. 

With  the  decorative  arts  it  is  not  different.  The 
public  clung  with  really  pathetic  tenacity  to  what  I 
believe  were  the  direct  traditions  of  the  Great  Ex- 
hibition of  international  vulgarity,  traditions  that 
were  so  appalling  that  the  houses  in  which  people 
lived  were  only  fit  for  blind  people  to  live  in. 
Beautiful  things  began  to  be  made,  beautiful  col- 
ours came  from  the  dyer's  hand,  beautiful  patterns 
from  the  artist's  brain,  and  the  use  of  beautiful 
things  and  their  value  and  importance  were  set 
forth.  The  public  were  really  very  indignant. 
They  lost  their  temper.  They  said  silly  things. 
No  one  minded.  No  one  was  a  whit  the  worse. 
No  one  accepted  the  authority  of  public  opinion. 
And  now  it  is  almost  impossible  to  enter  any  mod- 
ern house  without  seeing  some  recognition  of  good 
taste,  some  recognition  of  the  value  of  lovely  sur- 
roundings, some  sign  of  appreciation  of  beauty.  In 
fact,  people's  houses  are,  as  a  rule,  quite  charming 
nowadays.  People  have  been  to  a  very  great  extent 
civilised.  It  is  only  fair  to  state,  however,  that  the 
extraordinary  success  of  the  revolution  in  house 
decoration  and  furniture  and  the  like  has  not  really 


SOUL  OF  MAN  UXDEE  SOCIALISM.  171 

been  due  to  the  majority  of  the  public  developing  a 
very  fine  taste  in  such  matters.  It  has  been  chiefly 
due  to  the  fact  that  the  craftsmen  of  things  so  ap- 
preciated the  pleasure  of  making  what  was  beauti- 
ful, and  woke  to  such  a  vivid  consciousness  of  the 
hideousness  and  vulgarity  of  what  the  public  had 
previously  wanted,  that  they  simply  starved  the 
public  out.  It  would  be  quite  impossible  at  the 
present  moment  to  furnish  a  room  as  rooms  were 
furnished  a  few  years  ago,  without  going  for  every- 
thing to  an  auction  of  second-hand  furniture  from 
some  third-rate  lodging-house.  The  things  are  no 
longer  made.  However  they  may  object  to  it,  peo- 
ple must  nowadays  have  something  charming  in 
their  surroundings.  Fortunately  for  them,  their 
assumption  of  authority  in  these  art  matters  came 
to  entire  grief. 

It  is  evident,  then,  that  all  authority  in  such 
things  is  bad.  People  sometimes  inquire  what  form 
of  government  is  most  suitable  for  an  artist  to  live 
under.  To  this  question  there  is  only  one  answer. 
The  form  of  government  that  is  most  suitable  to 
the  artist  is  no  government  at  all.  Authority  over 
him  and  his  art  is  ridiculous.  It  has  been  stated 
that  under  despotisms  artists  have  produced  lovely 
work.     This  is  not  quite  so.    Artists  have  visited 


172  THE  WHITINGS  OF  OSCAE  WILDE. 

despots,  not  as  subjects  to  be  tyrannised  over,  but 
as  wandering  wonder-makers,  as  fascinating  vag- 
rant personalities,  to  be  entertained  and  charmed 
and  suffered  to  be  at  peace,  and  allowed  to  create. 
There  is  this  to  be  said  in  favour  of  the  despot,  that 
he,  being  an  individual,  may  have  culture,  while 
the  mob,  being  a  monster,  has  none.  One  who  is 
an  Emperor  and  King  may  stoop  down  to  pick  up  a 
brush  for  a  painter,  but  when  the  democracy  stoops 
down  it  is  merely  to  throw  mud.  And  yet  the 
democracy  have  not  so  far  to  stoop  as  the  Emperor. 
In  fact,  when  they  want  to  throw  mud  they  have 
not  to  stoop  at  all.  But  there  is  no  necessity  to 
separate  the  monarch  from  the  mob ;  all  authority 
is  equally  bad. 

There  are  three  kinds  of  despots.  There  is  the 
despot  who  tyrannises  over  the  body.  There  is  the 
despot  who  tyrannises  over  the  soul.  There  is  the 
despot  who  tyrannises  over  soul  and  body  alike. 
The  first  is  called  the  Prince.  The  second  is  called 
the  Pope.  The  third  is  called  the  People.  The 
Prince  may  be  cultivated.  Many  Princes  have 
been.  Yet  in  the  Prince  there  is  danger.  One 
thinks  of  Dante  at  the  bitter  feast  in  Verona,  of 
Tasso  in  Ferrara's  madman's  cell.  It  is  better  for 
the  artist  not  to  live  with  Princes.    The  Pope  may 


SOUL  OF  MAN  UNDER  SOCIALISM.  173 

be  cultivated.  Many  Popes  have  been;  the  bad 
Popes  have  been.  The  bad  Popes  loved  Beauty, 
almost  as  passionately,  nay,  with  as  much  passion 
as  the  good  Popes  hated  Thought.  To  the  wicked- 
ness of  the  Papacy  humanity  owes  much.  The 
goodness  of  the  Papacy  owes  a  terrible  debt  to  hu- 
manity. Yet,  though  the  Vatican  has  kept  the 
rhetoric  of  its  thunders  and  lost  the  rod  of  its 
lightning,  it  is  better  for  the  artist  not  to  live  with 
Popes.  It  was  a  Pope  who  said  of  Cellini  to  a  con- 
clave of  Cardinals  that  common  laws  and  common 
authority  were  not  made  for  men  such  as  he;  but  it 
was  a  Pope  who  thrust  Cellini  into  prison,  and 
kept  him  there  till  he  sickened  with  rage,  and 
created  unreal  visions  for  himself,  and  saw  the 
gilded  sun  enter  his  room,  and  grew  so  enamoured 
of  it  that  he  sought  to  escape,  and  crept  out  from 
tower  to  tower,  and  falling  through  dizzy  air  at 
dawn,  maimed  himself,  and  was  by  a  vine-dresser 
covered  with  vine  leaves,  and  carried  in  a  cart  to 
one  who,  loving  beautiful  things,  had  care  of  him. 
There  is  danger  in  Popes.  And  as  for  the  People, 
what  of  them  and  their  authority?  Perhaps  of 
them  and  their  authority  one  has  spoken  enough. 
Their  authority  is  a  thing  blind,  deaf,  hideous,  gro- 
tesque, tragic,  amusing,  serious,  and  obscene.    It  is 


174  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

impossible  for  the  artist  to  live  with  the  People. 
All  despots  bribe.  The  people  bribe  and  brutalise. 
Who  told  them  to  exercise  authority?  They  were 
made  to  live,  to  listen,  and  to  love.  Some  one  has 
done  them  a  great  wrong.  They  have  marred  them- 
selves by  imitation  of  their  inferiors.  They  have 
taken  the  sceptre  of  the  Prince.  How  should  they 
use  it?  They  have  taken  the  triple  tiara  of  the 
Pope.  How  should  they  carry  its  burden?  They 
are  as  a  clown  whose  heart  is  broken.  They  are  as 
a  priest  whose  soul  is  not  yet  born.  Let  all  who 
love  Beauty  pity  them.  Though  they  themselves 
love  not  Beauty,  yet  let  them  pity  themselves.  Who 
taught  them  the  trick  of  tyranny? 

There  are  many  other  things  that  one  might 
point  out.  One  might  point  out  how  the  Renais- 
sance was  great,  because  it  sought  to  solve  no  social 
problem,  and  busied  itself  not  about  such  things, 
but  suffered  the  individual  to  develop  freely,  beau- 
tifully, and  naturally,  and  so  had  great  and  indi- 
vidual artists,  and  great  and  individual  men.  One 
might  point  out  how  Louis  XIV,  by  creating  the 
modern  state,  destroyed  the  individualism  of  the 
artist,  and  made  things  monstrous  in  their  monot- 
ony of  repetition,  and  contemptible  in  their  con- 
formity  to   rule,    and    destroyed   throughout   all 


SOUL  OF  MAN  UNDER  SOCIALISM.  175 

France  all  those  fine  freedoms  of  expression  that 
had  made  tradition  new  in  beauty,  and  new  modes 
one  with  antique  form.  But  the  past  is  of  no  im- 
portance. The  present  is  of  no  importance.  It  is 
with  the  future  that  we  have  to  deal.  For  the  past 
is  what  man  should  not  have  been.  The  present  is 
what  man  ought  not  to  be.  The  future  is  what 
artists  are. 

It  will,  of  course,  be  said  that  such  a  scheme  as  is 
set  forth  here  is  quite  unpractical,  and  goes  against 
human  nature.  This  is  perfectly  true.  It  is  un- 
practical, and  it  goes  against  human  nature.  This 
is  why  it  is  worth  carrying  out,  and  that  is  why  one 
proposes  it.  For  what  is  a  practical  scheme?  A 
practical  scheme  is  either  a  scheme  that  is  already 
in  existence,  or  a  scheme  that  could  be  carried  out 
under  existing  conditions.  But  it  is  exactly  the 
existing  conditions  that  one  objects  to;  and  any 
scheme  that  could  accept  these  conditions  is 
wrong  and  foolish.  The  conditions  will  be  done 
away  with,  and  human  nature  will  change.  The 
only  thing  that  one  really  knows  about  human  na- 
ture is  that  it  changes.  Change  is  the  one  quality 
we  can  predicate  of  it.  The  systems  that  fail  are 
those  that  rely  on  the  permanency  of  human  na- 
ture, and  not  on  its  growth  and  development.  The 


176  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

error  of  Louis  XIV  was  that  he  thought  human 
nature  would  always  be  the  same.  The  result  of 
his  error  was  the  French  Eevolution.  It  was  an 
admirable  result.  All  the  results  of  the  mistakes 
of  governments  are  quite  admirable. 

It  is  to  be  noted  also  that  Individualism  does  not 
come  to  man  with  any  sickly  cant  about  duty,  which 
merely  means  doing  what  other  people  want  be- 
cause they  want  it ;  or  any  hideous  cant  about  self- 
sacrifice,  which  is  merely  a  survival  of  savage  mu- 
tilation. In  fact,  it  does  not  come  to  man  with  any 
claims  upon  him  at  all.  It  comes  naturally  and 
inevitably  out  of  man.  It  is  the  point  to  which  all 
development  tends.  It  is  the  differentiation  to 
which  all  organisms  grow.  It  is  the  perfection  that 
is  inherent  in  every  mode  of  life,  and  towards 
which  every  mode  of  life  quickens.  And  so  Indi- 
vidualism exercises  no  compulsion  over  man.  On 
the  contrary,  it  says  to  man  that  he  should  suffer 
no  compulsion  to  be  exercised  over  him.  It  does 
not  try  to  force  people  to  be  good.  It  knows  that 
people  are  good  when  they  are  let  alone.  Man  will 
develop  Individualism  out  of  himself.  Man  is  now 
so  developing  Individualism.  To  ask  whether  In- 
dividualism is  practical  is  like  asking  whether 
Evolution  is  practical.    Evolution  is  the  law  of  life, 


SOUL  OF  MAN  UNDER  SOCIALISM.  177 

and  there  is  no  evolution  except  towards  Individ- 
ualism. Where  this  tendency  is  not  expressed,  it 
is  a  case  of  artificially  arrested  growth,  or  of  dis- 
ease, or  of  death. 

Individualism  will  also  be  unselfish  and  unaf- 
fected. It  has  been  pointed  out  that  one  of  the  re- 
sults of  the  extraordinary  tyranny  of  authority  is 
that  words  are  absolutely  distorted  from  their 
proper  and  simple  meaning,  and  are  used  to  express 
the  obverse  of  their  right  signification.  What  is  true 
about  Art  is  true  about  Life.  A  man  is  called 
affected,  nowadays,  if  he  dresses  as  he  likes  to 
dress.  But  in  doing  that  he  is  acting  in  a  per- 
fectly natural  manner.  Affectation,  in  such  mat- 
ters, consists  in  dressing  according  to  the  views  of 
one's  neighbour,  whose  views,  as  they  are  the  views 
of  the  majority,  will  probably  be  extremely  stupid. 
Or  a  man  is  called  selfish  if  he  lives  in  the  manner 
that  seems  to  him  most  suitable  for  the  full  realisa- 
tion of  his  own  personality ;  if,  in  fact,  the  primary 
aim  of  his  life  is  self-development.  But  this  is  the 
way  in  which  every  one  should  live.  Selfishness  is 
not  living  as  one  wishes  to  live,  it  is  ashing  others 
to  live  as  one  wishes  to  live.  And  unselfishness  is 
letting  other  people's  lives  alone,  not  interfering 
with  them.     Selfishness  always  aims  at  creating 


178  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

around  it  an  absolute  uniformity  of  type.  Unsel- 
fishness recognises  infinite  variety  of  type  as  a  de- 
lightful thing,  accepts  it,  acquiesces  in  it,  enjoys 
it.  It  is  not  selfish  to  think  for  oneself.  A  man 
who  does  not  think  for  himself  does  not  think  at 
all.  It  is  grossly  selfish  to  require  of  one's  neigh- 
bour that  he  should  think  in  the  same  way,  and 
hold  the  same  opinions.  Why  should  he?  If  he 
can  think,  bre  will  probably  think  differently.  If 
he  cannot  think,  it  is  monstrous  to  require  thought 
of  any  kind  from  him.  A  red  rose  is  not  selfish 
because  it  wants  to  be  a  red  rose.  It  would  be  hor- 
ribly selfish  if  it  wanted  all  the  other  flowers  in  the 
garden  to  be  both  red  and  roses.  Under  Individ- 
ualism people  will  be  quite  natural  and  absolutely 
unselfish,  and  will  know  the  meanings  of  the  words, 
and  realise  them  in  their  free,  beautiful  lives.  Nor 
will  men  be  egotistic  as  they  are  now.  For  the 
egotist  is  he  who  makes  claims  upon  others,  and 
the  Individualist  will  not  desire  to  do  that.  It  will 
not  give  him  pleasure.  When  man  has  realised  In- 
dividualism, he  will  also  realise  sympathy  and  ex- 
ercise it  freely  and  spontaneously.  Up  to  the  pres- 
ent man  has  hardly  cultivated  sympathy  at  all. 
He  has  merely  sympathy  with  pain,  and  sympathy 
with  pain  is  not  the  highest  form  of  sympathy. 


SOUL  OF  MAN  UNDER  SOCIALISM.  179 

All  sympathy  is  fine,  but  sympathy  with  suffering 
is  the  least  fine  mode.  It  is  tainted  with  egotism. 
It  is  apt  to  become  morbid.  There  is  in  it  a  cer- 
tain element  of  terror  for  our  own  safety.  We  be- 
come afraid  that  we  ourselves  might  be  as  the  leper 
or  as  the  blind,  and  that  no  man  would  have  care 
of  us.  It  is  curiously  limiting,  too.  One  should 
sympathise  with  the  entirety  of  life,  not  with  life's 
sores  and  maladies  merely,  but  with  life's  joy  and 
beauty  and  energy  and  health  and  freedom.  The 
wider  sympathy  is,  of  course,  the  more  difficult. 
It  requires  more  unselfishness.  Anybody  can  sym- 
pathise with  the  sufferings  of  a  friend,  but  it  re- 
quires a  very  fine  nature — it  requires,  in  fact,  the 
nature  of  a  true  Individualist — to  sympathise  with 
a  friend's  success.  In  the  modern  stress  of  com- 
petition and  struggle  for  place,  such  sympathy  is 
naturally  rare,  and  is  also  very  much  stifled  by  the 
immoral  ideal  of  uniformity  of  type  and  conform- 
ity to  rule  which  is  so  prevalent  everywhere,  and  is 
perhaps  most  obnoxious  in  England. 

Sympathy  with  pain  there  will,  of  course,  al- 
ways be.  It  is  one  of  the  first  instincts  of  man. 
The  animals  which  are  individual,  the  higher  ani- 
mals that  is  to  say,  share  it  with  us.  But  it  must 
be  remembered  that  while  sympathy  with  joy  in- 


180  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

tensities  the  sum  of  joy  in  the  world,  sympathy  with 
pain  does  not  really  diminish  the  amount  of  pain. 
It  may  make  man  better  able  to  endure  evil,  but  the 
evil  remains.  Sympathy  with  consumption  does 
not  cure  consumption;  that  is  what  Science  does. 
And  when  Socialism  has  solved  the  problem  of 
poverty,  and  Science  solved  the  problem  of  disease, 
the  area  of  the  sentimentalists  will  be  lessened, 
and  the  sympathy  of  man  will  be  large,  healthy, 
and  spontaneous.  Man  will  have  joy  in  the  con- 
templation of  the  joyous  lives  of  others. 

For  it  is  through  joy  that  the  Individualism  of 
the  future  will  develop  itself.  Christ  made  no  at- 
tempt to  reconstruct  society,  and  consequently  the 
Individualism  that  He  preached  to  man  could  be 
realised  only  through  pain  or  in  solitude.  The 
ideals  that  we  owe  to  Christ  are  the  ideals  of  the 
man  who  abandons  society  entirely,  or  of  the  man 
who  resists  society  absolutely.  But  man  is  nat- 
urally social.  Even  the  Thebaid  became  peopled 
at  last.  And  though  the  cenobite  realises  his  per- 
sonality, it  is  often  an  impoverished  personal- 
ity that  he  so  realises.  Upon  the  other  hand,  the 
terrible  truth  that  pain  is  a  mode  through  which 
man  may  realise  himself  exercised  a  wonderful  fas- 
cination over  the  world.     Shallow  speakers  and 


SOUL  OF  MAN  UNDER  SOCIALISM.  181 

shallow  thinkers  in  pulpits  and  on  platforms  often 
talk  about  the  world's  worship  of  pleasure,  and 
whine  against  it.  But  it  is  rarely  in  the  world's 
history  that  its  ideal  has  been  one  of  joy  and 
beauty.  The  worship  of  pain  has  far  more  often 
dominated  the  world.  Medievalism,  with  its  saints 
and  martyrs,  its  love  of  self-torture,  its  wild  pas- 
sion for  wounding  itself,  its  gashing  with  knives, 
and  its  whipping  with  rods — Medievalism  is  real 
Christianity,  and  the  mediaeval  Christ  is  the  real 
Christ.  When  the  Renaissance  dawned  upon  the 
world,  and  brought  with  it  the  new  ideals  of  the 
beauty  of  life  and  the  joy  of  living,  men  could  not 
understand  Christ.  Even  Art  shows  us  that.  The 
painters  of  the  Renaissance  drew  Christ  as  a  little 
boy  playing  with  another  boy  in  a  palace  or  a  gar- 
den, or  lying  back  in  His  mother's  arms,  smiling  at 
her,  or  at  a  flower,  or  at  a  bright  bird ;  or  as  a  noble, 
stately  figure  moving  nobly  through  the  world;  or 
as  a  wonderful  figure  rising  in  a  sort  of  ecstasy 
from  death  to  life.  Even  when  they  drew  Him  cru- 
cified, they  drew  Him  as  a  beautiful  God  on  whom 
evil  men  had  inflicted  suffering.  But  He  did  not 
preoccupy  them  much.  What  delighted  them  was 
to  paint  the  men  and  women  whom  they  admired, 
and  to  show  the  loveliness  of  this  lovely  earth. 


182  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

They  painted  many  religious  pictures ;  in  fact,  they 
painted  far  too  many,  and  the  monotony  of  type 
and  motive  is  wearisome  and  was  bad  for  art.  It 
was  the  result  of  the  authority  of  the  public  in  art 
matters,  and  it  is  to  be  deplored.  But  their  soul 
was  not  in  the  subject.  Raphael  was  a  great  artist 
when  he  painted  his  portrait  of  the  Pope.  When 
he  painted  his  Madonnas  and  infant  Christs,  he  is 
not  a  great  artist  at  all.  Christ  had  no  message  for 
the  Renaissance,  which  was  wonderful  because  it 
brought  an  ideal  at  variance  with  His,  and  to  find 
the  presentation  of  the  real  Christ  we  must  go  to 
mediaeval  art.  There  He  is  one  maimed  and 
marred ;  one  who  is  not  comely  to  look  on,  because 
Beauty  is  a  joy;  one  who  is  not  in  fair  raiment, 
because  that  may  be  a  joy  also :  He  is  a  beggar  who 
has  a  marvellous  soul;  He  is  a  leper  whose  soul  is 
divine;  He  needs  neither  property  nor  health;  He 
is  a  God  realising  His  perfection  through  pain. 

The  evolution  of  man  is  slow.  The  injustice  of 
men  is  great.  It  was  necessary  that  pain  should 
be  put  forward  as  a  mode  of  self-realisation.  Even 
now  in  some  places  in  the  world,  the  message  of 
Christ  is  necessary.  No  one  who  lived  in  modern 
Russia  could  possibly  realise  his  perfection  except 
by  pain.    A  few  Russian  artists  have  realised  them- 


SOUL  OF  MAN  UXDEE  SOCIALISM.  183 

selves  in  Art,  in  a  fiction  that  is  mediaeval  in  char- 
acter, because  its  dominant  note  is  the  realisation 
of  men  through  suffering.  But  for  those  who  are 
not  artists,  and  to  whom  there  is  no  mode  of  life 
but  the  actual  life  of  fact,  pain  is  the  only  door  to 
perfection.  A  Eussian  who  lives  happily  under 
the  present  system  of  government  in  Eussia  must 
either  believe  that  man  has  no  soul,  or  that,  if  he 
has,  it  is  not  worth  while  developing.  A  Nihilist 
who  rejects  all  authority,  because  he  knows  author- 
ity to  be  evil,  and  who  welcomes  all  pain,  because 
through  that  he  realises  his  personality,  is  a  real 
Christian.  To  him  the  Christian  ideal  is  a  true 
thing. 

And  yet,  Christ  did  not  revolt  against  authority. 
He  accepted  the  imperial  authority  of  the  Eoman 
Empire  and  paid  tribute.  He  endured  the  ecclesi- 
astical authority  of  the  Jewish  Church,  and  would 
not  repel  its  violence  by  any  violence  of  His  own. 
He  had,  as  I  said  before,  no  scheme  for  the  recon- 
struction of  society.  But  the  modern  world  has 
schemes.  It  proposes  to  do  away  with  poverty  and 
the  suffering  that  it  entails.  It  desires  to  get  rid 
of  pain,  and  the  suffering  that  pain  entails.  It 
trusts  to  Socialism  and  to  Science  as  its  methods. 
What  it  aims  at  is  an  Individualism  expressing 


184  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

itself  through  joy.  This  Individualism  will  be 
larger,  fuller,  lovelier  than  any  Individualism  has 
ever  been.  Pain  is  not  the  ultimate  mode  of  per- 
fection. It  is  merely  provisional  and  a  protest.  It 
has  reference  to  wrong,  unhealthy,  unjust  sur- 
roundings. When  the  wrong,  and  the  disease,  and 
the  injustice  are  removed,  it  will  have  no  further 
place.  It  will  have  done  its  work.  It  was  a  great 
work,  but  it  is  almost  over.  Its  sphere  lessens  every 
day. 

Nor  will  man  miss  it.  For  what  man  has  sought 
for  is,  indeed,  neither  pain  nor  pleasure,  but  simply 
Life.  Man  has  sought  to  live  intensely,  fully,  per- 
fectly. When  he  can  do  so  without  exercising  re- 
straint on  others,  or  suffering  it  ever,  and  his 
activities  are  all  pleasurable  to  him,  he  will  be 
saner,  healthier,  more  civilised,  more  himself. 
Pleasure  is  Nature's  test,  her  sign  of  approval. 
When  man  is  happy,  he  is  in  harmony  with  himself 
and  his  environment.  The  new  Individualism,  for 
whose  service  Socialism,  whether  it  wills  it  or  not, 
is  working,  will  be  perfect  harmony.  It  will  be 
what  the  Greeks  sought  for,  but  could  not,  except 
in  Thought,  realise  completely,  because  they  had 
slaves,  and  fed  them ;  it  will  be  what  the  Renais- 
sance sought  for,  but  could  not  realise  completely 


SOUL  OF  MAN  UNDEK  SOCIALISM.  185 

except  in  Art,  because  it  had  slaves,  and  starved 
them.  It  will  be  complete,  and  through  it  each 
man  will  attain  to  his  perfection.  The  new  Indi- 
vidualism is  the  new  Hellenism. 

Oscae  Wilde. 


finis. 


Of  Him  Who  Died  at  No.  1 3. 

By  Leonard  Charles  van  Noppen. 


Copyright,  1907,  by  A.  R.  Keller  &  Co.,  Inc. 


OF  HIM  WHO  DIED  AT  No.  13. 

Sad  surely  it  was,  the  funeral  I  witnessed  on 
that  dismal  autumn  day  toward  the  close  of  the 
year  1900.  And  I  remember  how  one  who  stood 
with  me,  shivering  in  the  portals  of  old  St.  Ger- 
main des  Pres,  one  who  had  known  the  dead  in 
summer  days,  said  mournfully: 

"And  that's  the  last  of  Oscar  Wilde !  the  pet  of 
society,  the  aesthete,  bon  vivant  and  accomplished 
man  of  the  world,  borne  to  a  pauper's  grave — fol- 
lowed by  a  single  coach  and  two  friends !" 

Then  with  great  feeling — and  never  lines  more 
apropos,  more  gruesome  and  more  pathetic — he 
quoted  that  couplet  of  Tom  Hood's : 

"Battle  his  bones  over  the  stones — 
'Tis  only  a  pauper,  whom  nobody  owns." 

"Poor  Oscar !"  he  sighed.     From  William  Theo- 
dore Peters,  a  young  American,  long  resident  in 
Paris,  came  these  burdened  words.     Gifted  with  a 
193 


194  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

rare  and  delicate  genius,  he  was  hailed  as  a 
rising  poet  and  gave  promise  of  many  things 
which  his  recent  death,  sudden  and  unexpected, 
has  left  to  be  listed  among  the  great  unfulfilled. 

There,  too,  was  Charles  Sibleigh,  that  bohe- 
mian  of  bohemians,  whose  French  version  of 
Omar,  since  published,  has  won  golden  plaudits 
from  the  critics  of  both  hemispheres.  He  likewise 
was  oppressed  by  the  weight  of  that  strange  hour. 

It  was  a  cold,  disagreeable  day.  A  drizzling 
rain  was  falling  and  the  towers  of  Paris  loomed 
like  mighty  memories  through  the  spectral  mist. 
It  was  quite  in  keeping,  too,  that  we  who  stood 
there,  watching  the  close  of  a  great  human  tragedy, 
should  shiver  and  grow  strangely  sad,  awed  into 
whispers. 

To  me  who  knew  Wilde  only  in  his  work,  Peters 
and  Sibleigh,  whom  I  then  met  for  the  first  time, 
told  many  particulars  of  those  last,  lonely,  linger- 
ing months,  those  hopeless  days  of  heavy-footed, 
horror-hooded  hours,  which  closed  a  career  the 
most  brilliant  and  withal  the  most  erratic  of  our 
generation. 

Only  recently  a  writer  in  The  Critic,  Mr. 
George  Sylvester  Viereck,  advanced,  evidently  to 
his  own  satisfaction  and  to  the  mystification  of 


OF  HIM  WHO  DIED  AT  No.  13.       195 

many,  an  array  of  ingenious  arguments  to  prove 
that  Oscar  Wilde  was  still  living.  His  article, 
fortified  with  much  circumstantial  and  some  hear- 
say evidence,  almost  convinces.  To  begin  with, 
the  writer  talked  with  a  man  who  half-intimated 
that  he  had  only  lately  conversed  with  the  living 
Wilde,  and  then,  when  his  questioner  betrayed  a 
too  keen  interest,  mysteriously  refused  to  say  more. 

This  may  be  pretty  good  evidence.  All  that  it 
lacks  of  being  proof  is  a  convincing  testimonial  as 
to  the  seriousness  of  the  witness.  The  superadded 
suggestion  that  Wilde  could  easily  pass  his  life  in 
some  little  town  of  Southern  France  or  in  a  Span- 
ish monastery,  as  a  silent  looker-on,  is  hard  to 
reconcile,  however,  with  his  presence  here  in  New 
York. 

Mr.  Viereck  also  considers  it  significant  that 
the  following  startling  lines  should  appear 
only  in  the  German  edition  of  the  De  Profundus : 
"Terrible  as  are  the  dead  when  they  return  from 
their  graves,  the  living  that  come  back  from  the 
grave  are  far  more  terrible."  I  confess  that  to 
me  this  is  no  less  enigmatical,  and  I  agree  with 
Mr.  Viereck  that  it  would  be  altogether  in  accord 
with  Wilde's  passion  for  the  paradoxical  to  make 
his  death  the  crowning  paradox  of  all.     That  he, 


196  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

from  whom  only  the  unexpected  was  to  be  expect- 
ed, should,  after  the  turbulent  notoriety  of  his  trial 
and  imprisonment  had  been  succeeded  by  the  calm 
fame  of  the  De  Profundis,  return  to  England, 
redeemed  by  renunciation,  would  be  not  at  all  sur- 
prising, if  he  were  still  alive. 

It  may  be  that  Mr.  Viereck's  mysterious  inform- 
ant had  met  the  doppelganger,  or  double,  of  the 
author  of  The  Garden  of  Eros.  According  to 
Swedenborg,  things  even  stranger  have  happened. 

So  much  then  for  Mr.  Viereck's  special  plead- 
ing, which  would  be  quite  sufficient  to  persuade  me 
that  we  were  systematically  haunted  by  the  living 
Wilde,  had  I  not  happened  at  his  funeral.  I  must, 
therefore,  at  least  until  absolute  proof  is  forth- 
coming, refuse  to  believe  with  Mr.  Viereck  that 
in  that  lonely  grave  which  is  supposed  to  contain 
all  that  is  mortal  of  Oscar  Wilde  "sleeps  some  poor 
beggar  or  some  honest  bourgeois  who  never 
dreamed  he  should  rest  in  poet's  tomb." 

While  in  Paris,  during  and  after  the  closing 
weeks  of  the  International  Exposition  of  1900,  I 
saw  one  day,  in  the  Paris  edition  of  the  New  York 
Herald,  an  announcement  of  the  death  of  Oscar 
Wilde.  The  article  added  that  the  poet  died  in 
obscure  lodgings,  in  the  Rue (  ?),  No.  13.     As 


OF  HIM  WHO  DIED  AT  NO.  13.       197 

I  greatly  admired  some  of  the  poems  of  this  the 
most  unfortunate  of  poets,  I  yielded  to  the  not 
unnatural  impulse  to  behold  the  scene  of  his  un- 
happy end.     I  was  soon  in  the  Eue  (?) 

— the  name  has  escaped  me — near  Des  Beaux  Arts. 
It  was  a  narrow  street,  flanked  by  houses  of  most 
forbidding  aspect.  As  the  numbers  were  so 
blurred  as  to  be  quite  undecipherable,  I  knocked, 
to  make  sure,  at  the  door  of  the  seventh  house 
from  the  right.  A  woman,  none  too  tidy,  respond- 
ed. I  inquired  if  an  Englishman,  Mr.  Wilde,  had 
lived  there.  "Wait  a  moment,"  she  replied,  usher- 
ing me  into  a  large  room  furnished  with  bountiful 
bareness,  "and  I'll  call  Monsieur  Ross."  As  I  had 
not  anticipated  this  postponement  of  an  answer,  it 
was  with  some  dismay  that  I  saw  her  disappear 
up  the  narrow  stairs.  But  it  was  now  too  late  to 
retreat;  for  already  I  heard  my  presence  an- 
nounced. Mr.  Ross  immediately  descended,  and, 
after  introducing  himself,  inquired  if  I  was  "a 
friend  of  Wilde's?"  I  replied  that  I  knew  the 
poet  only  through  his  work,  some  of  which  had 
profoundly  impressed  me.  I  added  that  I  had 
come  with  no  intention  of  intruding,  and  that  I 
was  sorry  he  had  been  disturbed — but  would  he 
tell  me  when  Mr.  Wilde  was  to  be  buried? 


198  THE  WHITINGS  OF  OSCAK  WILDE. 

"To-morrow  morning,"  he  said,  "at  the  Church 
of  St.  Germain  des  Pres — about  9  o'clock." 

The  next  day,  as  I  approached  this  historic  pile, 
in  many  respects  the  most  interesting  of  the 
churches  of  Paris,  I  saw,  on  the  street  opposite  the 
western  portal,  a  hearse  and  one  carriage.  Pro- 
ceeding within,  I  found  that  the  burial  service  had 
just  begun.  The  officiating  priest,  a  gigantic 
figure  with  a  thick  black  beard,  a  member,  prob- 
ably, of  one  of  the  monkish  orders,  solemnly  in- 
toned the  ritual  for  the  dead.  Scattered  throughout 
the  huge  edifice  were  some  thirty-five  or  forty  per- 
sons, among  them,  I  was  told  afterwards,  several 
of  the  most  talented  artists  in  Paris.  Also  there 
were  two  or  three  women,  heavily  veiled. 

The  deep  intonations  of  the  priest,  the  awesome 
atmosphere  of  the  ancient  church,  and,  above  all, 
that  simple  coffin  and  its  passionless  dead,  com- 
bined to  make  the  occasion  most  impressive.  Sit- 
ting there  in  the  shadow  of  tombs,  before  the 
unapparent  Presence  of  the  Mystery,  I  could  not 
but  brood  on  that  life  of  promise,  blighted  ere  its 
noon.  And  it  seemed  truly  paradoxical,  and  there- 
fore not  unaccordant,  that  the  last  chapter  of  such 
a  career  should  end  here,  before  the  altar  of  the 


OF  HIM  WHO  DIED  AT  No.  13.       199 

immaculate  Virgin,  where,  to  quote  Wilde  him- 
self: 

"The  crimson  stain  that  was  of  Cain 
Became  Christ's  snow-white  seal." 

That  madness  of  mockery,  that  "amour  de  Vim- 
possible  "  that  life  of  "unlimited  desire,"  found 
here  their  silent  ending.  And  he,  that  wanton 
worldling,  lay  crushed  and  broken,  shrouded  with 
shadows — the  hunted  wanderer  brought,  at  last,  to 
bay,  weighed  down  with  the  scorn  of  the  world ! 
And,  thus  heavily  weighted,  he  was  now,  it  seemed, 
about  to  be  cast  into  a  deep  of  infamy,  into  that 
forgetful  sea  which  never  gives  up  its  dead : 

"For  none  can  tell  to  what  red  hell 
His  sightless  soul  may  stray." 

Insistently  the  lines  of  the  Ballad  of  Reading 
Gaol  stalked  through  my  mind,  pointing,  like  his 
own  dance  of  phantoms,  accusing  finger  at  their 
author,  lying  so  mute  and  so  motionless  in  that 
mysterious  casket: 

"But  he  does  not  win  who  plays  with  sin 
In  the  secret  House  of  Shame" — 


200  THE  WEITIXGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

they  shrieked;  and  then,  like  a  wail,  came  the 
memory  of  other  lines,  the  one  crowding  out  the 
other : 

"The  man  had  killed  the  thing  he  loved 
And  so  he  had  to  die" — 

"For  each  man  kills  the  thing  he  loves. 

By  each  let  this  be  heard: 
Some  do  it  with  a  bitter  look; 

Some  with  a  flattering  word ; 
The  coward  does  it  with  a  kiss; 

The  brave  man  with  a  sword." 

Too  true,  he  had  greatly  sinned  who  lay 
there,  wrapt  in  the  long  white  silence.  He  had 
invited,  mockingly,  the  wrath  of  God  and  the  anger 
of  men ;  and  his  pride  had  suffered  a  fall.  But  for 
all  that,  bad  as  he  was — and  I  could  not  but  be- 
lieve he  was  more  mad  than  bad — his  was  a  quiver- 
ing soul  impaled  on  its  own  passions,  fettered 
doubtless  by  chains  of  heredity.  Then  why  should 
any  be  swift  to  cast  the  first  stone? 

He  himself  had  confessed  his  sins,  and  this  with- 
out boasting  and  without  blasphemy,  in  that  grand 
chant  of  adoration,  the  E  Tenebris,  which 
always  has  impressed  me  as  among  the  few  great 


OF  HIM  WHO  DIED  AT  No.  13.       201 

sonnets  since  Milton's  on  the  Piedmontese.  And 
now,  mingling  with  the  sonorous  Latin  of  the 
ritual,  this  splendid  outburst  of  despair,  which 
Wilde,  in  some  tumultuous  moment  of  remorse, 
called  from  his  abysmal  agony,  rolled  like  the  bil- 
lows of  a  stormy  sea,  line  after  noble  line,  through 
my  mind : 

"Come  down,  0  Christ,  and  help  me!  reach  Thy 

hand, 
Tor  I  am  drowning  in  a  stormier  sea 
Than  Simon  on  Thy  Lake  of  Galilee : 
The  wine  of  life  is  spilt  upon  the  sand, 
My  heart  is  as  some  famine-murdered  land, 
Whence  all  good  things  have  perished  utterly. 
And  well  I  kuow  my  soul  in  Hell  must  lie, 
If  I  this  night  before  God's  throne  should  stand. 
'He  sleeps,  perchance,  or  rideth  to  the  chase, 
Like  Baal,  when  his  prophets  howled  that  name 
From  morn  to  noon  on  Carmel's  smitten  height.' 
Nay,  peace,  I  shall  behold,  before  the  night, 
The  feet  of  brass,  the  robe  more  white  than  flame, 
The  wounded  hands,  the  weary  human  face." 

Such  were  the  thoughts  that  blended  with  the 
benisons  of  the  priest;  and  to  me,  though  a  Prot- 
estant, it  seemed  that  religion  had  seemed  never  so 


202  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAE  WILDE. 

holy  as  here  in  the  Mother  Catholic  Church, 
which,  with  open  arms,  had  welcomed  that  sin- 
stained,  homeless  wanderer,  banned  from  the  lim- 
ited mercy  of  man.  Like  a  chant  the  prophetic 
close  of  his  Easter  Day  floated  back  to  me : 

"My  heart  stole  back  across  wide  wastes  of  years, 
To  One  who  wandered  by  a  lonely  sea, 
And  sought,  in  vain,  for  any  place  of  rest : 
'Foxes  have  holes  and  every  bird  its  nest; 
I,  only  I,  must  wander  wearily, 
And  bruise  my  feet,  and  drink  wine  salt  with 
tears/  " 

Such  bitterness  he  was  himself  to  know,  even 
such  anguish  and  such  tears.  With  him,  however, 
was  never  that  sustaining  sense  of  innocence 
which  could  make  the  rough  way  smooth.  Peace 
could  come,  if  at  all,  only  through  the  breaking  of 
the  heart  in  him.     How  well  he  understood  this  ! 

"Ah !  happy  they  whose  hearts  can  break 
And  peace  of  pardon  win. 
How  else  may  man  make  straight  his  plan 
And  cleanse  his  soul  from  sin? 
How  else  but  through  a  broken  heart 
May  Lord  Christ  enter  in  ?" 


OF  HIM  WHO  DIED  AT  No.  13.       203 

The  service  came  to  an  end.  The  upper  lid  of 
the  coffin  was  then  raised,  so  that  any  who  wished 
to  do  so  might  look  upon  the  face  of  the  dead. 
Accordingly,  a  number  of  the  curious  and  a  few, 
very  few,  of  the  sad,  walked,  one  by  one,  by  the  cas- 
ket, making  the  sign  of  the  cross  as  they  passed. 
Among  them  1  noticed  a  pale,  slender  young  man, 
who,  so  Peters  told  me  afterwards,  was  Lord  Alfred 
Douglas.  So  far  as  I  could  see,  he  betrayed  no 
emotion  as  he  gazed  for  the  last  time  on  the  face 
of  his  friend. 

Let  me  add,  en  passant,  that  two  great  ancestors 
of  Douglas,  both  mediaeval  knights,  are  ingraved 
in  this  same  church.  Their  epitaphs  and  escutch- 
eons, emblazoned  on  the  walls,  could  easily  be  read 
from  the  chancel,  where  now,  for  a  moment,  stood 
the  latest  scion  of  that  mighty  line.  Was  this  no 
more  than  a  strange  coincidence  ? 

The  coffin  was  then  carried  by  the  pall-bearers 
to  the  hearse,  which,  after  Mr.  Eoss  and  the  pale 
young  man  had  entered  the  one  coach,  was  driven 
rapidly  away.  As  I  gazed  after  the  departing 
dead,  I  recalled  Wilde's  own  grotesquerie,  terrible 
now: 

"And  hurriedly  they  took  him  out 
And  hid  him  in  a  hole." 


204  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

Wilde  was  the  victim  of  his  own  imagination,  a 
man  unusually  susceptible  to  the  suggestions  of 
sense — blighted  with  super-sensibility.  This  he 
realized  only  too  well. 

"For  he  who  lives  more  lives  than  one, 
More  deaths  than  one  must  die/' 

he  says  in  his  great  Ballad.  He  was  forever  ex- 
perimenting with  his  Ego.  "One  can  fancy  an  in- 
tense personality  being  created  out  of  sin,"  he 
somewhere  soliloquizes;  and  this  idea  is  the  false 
star  that  lured  him  to  the  abyss.  His  self-con- 
sciousness was  at  times  almost  prophetic.  His 
very  end  he  seems  to  have  anticipated.  And  as 
he  mounted,  soar  on  soar,  he  seems  to  have  realised 
that  he  was  only  adding  distance  to  his  fall. 

In  that  brilliant  essay,  entitled  Pen,  Pencil  and 
Poison,  where  he  analysed — how  subtly! — the 
art  and  the  life  of  the  arch-criminal  Wainewright, 
Wilde  evidently  foresaw  his  own  inevitable  fate.  It 
is  just  such  a  criticism  as  might  now  be  written 
about  Wilde  himself.  In  him,  however,  will  be 
discovered  not  a  gleam  of  that  malevolence  which 
made  the  life  of  Wainewright  so  monstrous.  Not 
even  his  worst  enemy  can  say  that  Oscar  was  en- 
vious, unjust,  or  indifferent  to  human  need.     That 


OF  HIM  WHO  DIED  AT  No.  13.       205 

he  possessed^,  to  a  great  degree,  the  social  passion 
is  proved  by  his  Uumanitad. 

Paradoxical  as  he  was,  he  was  yet  consistent  in 
his  inconsistencies.  "With  him  insincerity  was 
often  but  an  unconscious  affectation.  Sovran  of 
genius,  he  was  long  content  to  be  a  mere  jester  at 
the  court  of  the  King;  content,  indeed,  to  receive 
the  mock  homage  paid  to  the  motley.  Before  his 
other,  his  higher  self,  he  would  permit  no  incense 
to  be  swung;  and,  that  he  might  obviate  all  sus- 
picion of  seriousness,  he  must  needs  tinkle  contin- 
ually the  bell-tasselled  cap  of  Harlequin.  Yet  at 
heart  he  was  at  times  profoundly  serious ;  but  his 
lamp  of  volition,  so  bright  in  the  dark,  was  soon 
dimmed  in  the  blazing  palaces  of  pleasure.  All 
his  good  resolutions,  and  of  these  no  man  had 
greater  store,  gravitated,  sooner  or  later,  back  to 
the  senses.  He  was  true  only  to  his  moods — the 
slave,  not  the  master,  of  the  living  moment.  He 
was  not  one  to  forget  himself  into  immortality. 
He  forgot  only  the  future  and  remembered  nothing 
but  the  present.  Of  that  fluidity  of  purpose  which 
is  the  defect  of  the  impressionable  quality,  he  is 
the  enduring  example.  The  uncompleted  circle 
of  his  days  was  a  continuous  compromise  with  the 
straight  line  of  virtue.     Alwavs  his  will  was  drawn 


206  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAR  WILDE. 

Egoward,  till  even  life  was  a  matter  of  style.  It 
became  at  last  a  tragedy,  where  character,  starting 
a  succession  of  inevitable  sequences,  caused  the 
death  of  the  protagonist. 

Red,  blood-red,  was  the  color  of  his  sins;  but 
this,  at  least,  ma}-  be  said  of  him :  he  was  no  whited 
sepulchre.  Over  the  conventions  he  walked  in- 
different— walked  into  the  very  yawn  of  pen- 
alty. "The  only  virtue  I  claim,"  he  said  once,  "is 
that  I  have  practised  none  of  the  seven  deadly  vir- 
tues." In  this  paradox  is  to  be  found  the  philoso- 
phy of  his  conduct  and  the  psychology  of  his  think- 
ing. That  he  might  dazzle  the  more  he  posed  in 
dark  places.  His  follies,  indeed,  seem  assumed  for 
the  occasion.  It  was  his  caprice  to  tease  his  time 
into  guesses  wide  of  his  meaning;  his  whim,  to 
leave  his  critics  a  testament  of  irreconcilable  con- 
tradictions.    And  in  this  he  has  succeeded. 

Wilde  was  a  belated  Athenian  turned  iconoclast. 
He  is  forever  exhibiting  romantic  surprises, 
caged  in  a  classic  style.  In  his  "House  Beautiful," 
columned  like  a  Greek  temple,  the  windows  look, 
now  on  sunny  lawns  loud  with  laughter,  now  on 
gloomy  Gothic  forests,  where  chanting  pilgrims 
pause  at  moon-pale  shrines.  After  the  reign  of 
revelry  comes  barefoot  Penance  treading  thorns. 


OF  HIM  WHO  DIED  AT  No.  13.      207 

Few  guessed  that  beneath  that  ambrosial  sparkle 
of  speech  were  sombre  depths  troubled  at  night  by 
the  wings  of  the  angel  Conscience.  It  was  when 
he  appeared  most  himself  that  he  was  most  con- 
cealed. The  world  thrilled  through  his  pleasures, 
but  it  was  God  who  throbbed  in  his  pain.  In  his 
soul,  Yillon,  Keats  and  Heine  met  to  dispute  with 
Thomas  a  Kempis,  and  it  was  the  mystic  who 
spoke  last. 

For  all  his  errors,  and  though  the  sense  of  moral 
values  was  never  his,  he  aspired  to  the  pure  ether 
of  the  spiritual.  He  stood  hushed  before  the  Beauty 
of  Holiness.  No  man  of  our  time  was  more 
enamoured  of  the  unearthly.  None  felt  so  keenly 
that  mystic  adoration,  the  worship  of  the  artist, 
which  only  three  English  poets  have  made  beauti- 
fully manifest :  Spenser,  Eossetti  and  Wilde.  And 
of  these  three,  Wilde  comes  nearest,  in  depth  and 
in  sincerity,  those  greatest  of  mystics,  Dante  and 
Vondel.  This  is  hardly  a  matter  susceptible  of 
proof.  I  can  only  cite,  as  evidence,  besides  the 
lines  already  quoted,  a  stanza  or  two  from  the 
Humanitad: 

"0  smitten  mouth !  0  forehead  crowned  with  thorn ! 
0  chalice  of  all  common  miseries ! 


208  THE  WRITINGS  OF  OSCAB  WILDE. 

Thou  for  our  sakes  that  loved  Thee  not  hast  borne 

An  agony  of  endless  centuries, 
And  we  were  vain  and  ignorant,  nor  knew 
That  when  we  stabbed  Thy  heart  it  was  our  own 
real  hearts  we  slew. 

"Is  this  the  end  of  all  that  primal  force 

Which,  in  its  changes  being  still  the  same, 
From  eyeless  Chaos  cleft  its  upward  course, 

Through  ravenous  seas  and  whirling  rocks  and 
flame, 
Till  the  suns  met  in  heaven  and  began 
Their  cycles,  and  the  morning  stars  sang,  and  the 
Word  was  Man? 

"Nay,  nay,  we  are  but  crucified,  and  though 

The  bloody  sweat  falls  from  our  brows  like  rain, 
Loosen  the  nails — we  shall  come  down,  I  know, 
Staunch  the  red  wounds — we  shall  be  whole 
again, 
No  need  have  we  of  hyssop-laden  rod — 
That  which  is  purely  human,  that  is  Godlike,  that 
is  God !" 

When  this  was  written  there  was  nothing  to  be 
gained  by  the  Christ-pose,  with  which  epithet  some 


OF  HIM  WHO  DIED  AT  No.  13.      209 

seem  content  to  dismiss  the  De  Profundis.  For 
at  that  time  the  author  apparently  aspired  to 
nothing  higher  than  to  be  acclaimed  the  pattern  of 
dandies  and  the  prince  of  wits.  To  regard  these 
poems,  therefore,  as  admissions — wrung  from  the 
writer's  very  soul — of  that  spiritual  beauty  to 
which  he  was  never  blind,  is  an  attitude  not  un- 
tenable. 

Surely  the  art  of  those  last  years  should  be 
enough  to  chasten  his  memory;  for  here  is  the 
real  Oscar  "Wilde,  the  heart  of  gold  purged  of  its 
earthly  dross.  Of  his  divided  self  let  us  keep  the 
purer  part.  To  forget  the  rest  is  better  than  to 
excuse  or  to  condone.  He  is  dead  and  his  limita- 
tions died  with  him.  He  denied  his  Master ;  true, 
but  not  thrice ! 

It  is  a  sad  story,  the  annals  of  those  last  years ; 
and  yet  it  may  be  that  it  was  not  until  then,  when 
he  had  lost  the  world,  that  he  truly  found  himself 
and  his  art.  For  from  the  De  Profundis,  that 
great  prose-poem  of  a  dying  soul,  rises  that  fra- 
grance beyond  all  fragrance — the  incense  of 
a  life  redeemed. 


', 


