Google 


This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world’s books discoverable online. 


It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country, Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that’s often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book’s long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 


Usage guidelines 


Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 


We also ask that you: 


+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 


+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google’s system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 


+ Maintain attribution The Google “watermark” you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 


+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can’t offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book’s appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 





About Google Book Search 


Google’s mission is to organize the world’s information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world’s books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 











aifhttp: //books . google. com/| 





From the Library of 
Edward K. Putnam 
Presented by 
Mrs. Edward K. Putnam 

















Sr 
Ma tl Jif inf 


br pte c 
Plaster AL Gd 








pes 


KENS Dicrionary 


te 
toa 
= 
Need 























I ILGUTON, 
\ 
he 














DickENs DICTIONARY 


& Key 


TO THE CHARACTERS AND PRINCIPAL INCIDENTS 
IN THE TALES OF CHARLES DICKENS 


BY 


GILBERT A. PIERCE 


WITH ADDITIONS 
By WILLIAM A. WHEELER 


ILLUSTRATED 


I fhe be ignorant, who would not wish to enlarge his knowledge? If_he be knowing, 
sho would not willingly refresh his memory?” —Oupvs 


BOSTON 
HOUGHTON, MIFFLIN AND COMPANY 
New York: 85 Fifth Avenue 
be Hiversibe regs, Cambridge 


\ 





Copyright, 1872, 
By JAMES R. OSGOOD & CO. 


Copyright, 1900, 
By OLIVE W. WHEELER. 


All rights reserved, 





‘THE RIVERSIDE PRESS, CAMBRIDGE, MASS, U.S. A. 
ELECTROTYPED AND PRINTED BY H. 0, HOUGHTON AND CO. 





The Wickens DWictionary. 





565507: 


“ As for the odarities of Mr. Dickens, multiplied kindnesses which he has com 
ferred upon us all, upon our children, upon people educated and uneducated, upon 
the myriads who speak our common tongue, have not you, have not I, all of us, 
reason to be thankful to this kind friend, who soothed and charmed so many 
hours, brought pleasure and sweet laughter to so many homes, made such multh 
tades of children happy, endowed us with such a sweet store of gracious thoughts, 
fair fancles, soft sympathies, hearty enjoyments?...I may quarrel with Mr. 
Dickens's art a thousand and a thousand times: I delight and wonder at his 
genius; I recognize in tt—I speak with awe and reverence —a commission from 
that Divine Benefloence, whose blessed task we know it will one day be to wipe 
every tear from every eye. Thankfully I take my share of the feast of love and 
Kindness which this gentle and generous and charitable soul has contributed 
to the happiness of the world. I take and enjoy my share, and say a benediction 
for the meal.” —THACKERAY. 





«Were all his books swept by some intellectual catastrophe out of the world, 
there would still exist in the world some soore, at least, of people, with all whose 
ways and sayings we are more intimately acquainted than with those of our 
brothers and sisters, who would owe to him thelr being. While we live, and 
while our children live, 8am Weller and Dick Swiveller, Mr. Pecksniff and Mrs. 
Gamp, the Micawbers and the Squeerses, can never die. . . . They are more real 
than we are ourselves, and will outlive and outlast us as they have outlived their 
ereator, This isthe one proof of genius which no critic, not the most carping o# 
ssatiated, can gainsay.”— Blackwood’s Mag., vol. okx. p. 0. 





Preface. 


On bringing the First Series of “All the Year Round” to a close, 
Mr. Dickens used these words, “It is better that every kind of 
work, honestly undertaken and discharged, should speak for itself 
than be spoken for.” Now, as the general intent of this volume, the 
manner of its execution, and its usefulness to the reading public, 
will be sufficiently obvious on even a cursory inspection, they need 
not be “spoken for” here. A few facts, however, crave to be 
stated by way of explanation and acknowledgment. 

The arrangement of the names of characters under each tale is 
alphabetical; but the order im which the tales themselves are treated 
is chronological, The latter remark, however, does not apply to the 
Reprinted Pieces,” which are put at the end of the list, as having 
been originally published —in “ Household Words" —at various 
dates between the years 1850 and 1856. Nor does it apply to 
“Some Uncollected Pieces,” whick, though among the carlicst of 
our author's productions, are placed after all the rest, as being little 
known, and, at present, inaccessible to the majority of readers. 

Besides these, a number of other sketches and tales still remain to 
be gathered from “ Household Words,” and “All the Year Round,” 
and from other sources. To the Christmas numbers" publishe 
in connection with these two periodicals, Mr. Dickens was gener 
ally a contributor; and in 1867 he collected and revised, expressly 
Sor the “Diamond” edition of his works (issued by the publishers 
of this volume), the portions of those numbers" written by him- 





wd Drelace. 


self; namely, “Somebody's Luggage,” “ Mrs. Lirriper's Lodgings,” 
“ Mrs, Lirripers Legacy,” “Doctor Marigold,” “Two Ghost 
Stories,” “The Boy at Mughy,” and “ The Holly-Tree.” He ts 
said to have written the first and third portions of “ The Perils of 
Certain English Prisoners” (1857), and more or less of “The 
Haunted House" (1859), “A Message from the Sea” (1860), “No 
Thoroughfare" (1867), Gc. ; but as he did not see fit to acknowl- 
sdge any share in these composite productions, and as it would be 
impossible to separate his contributions from those of the other 
writers associated with him, these stories have been wholly omitted. 
Mis to be noted, however, that although, in the“ Diamond” edition, 
he claimed as his own only those portions of “Mughy Function” ena 
titled “The Boy at Mugby” and“ The SignalMan” (reprinted at 
the second of “Two Ghost Stories”), yet, in the Contents prefixed 
to this Christmas number of “ All the Year Round,” ke put his 
name as axthor to two other portions, entitled “ Barbox Brothers," 
and“ Barbox Brothers and Co.” These are accordingly included 
in the present work, 

In three or four cases, the extracts from Dickens are taken 
from his“ Readings, as Condensed by Himself? and not directly 
from his novels. In the case of other extracts, omissions and ex 
planatory additions are always carefully indicated. 

The summaries of the Principal Incidents in the longer tales 
have been borrowed (with some slight additions and changes) 
from the “Diamond” edition; but, as the original references 
were to the pages in that edition only, these hawe been omitted, 
und chapter references given in their stead. They will be found 
to furnish an excellent analysis of the tales, and to be exceedingly 
convenient for reference. A seneral synopsis of each story may also 
be readily oblained by reading the account of the principal character 
ar characters figuring in it, 

The [lustrations are selected from those designed by Mr. S 
Eytinge, jun, for the Library,” “ Household, and“ Diamond 





Peetace. 


sditions of Dickens's Works, published, with the authors sanction, 
by Messrs. James R. Osgood and Company. Mr. Dickens 
only confirmed the general testimony to their excellence in saying 
of them, “ They are remarkable for a delicate perception of beauty, 
@ lively eye for character, a most agreeable absence of exaggeration, 
and a general modesty and propricty, which I greatly like.” 

The number of names of characters included in the General In- 
dex, and more or less fully treated in the pages preceding the Index, 
is upwards of fifteen hundred and fifty. The number of names 
of imaginary places, societies, and literary works, and of familiar 
Phrases or sayings, and the like,— also included in the Index,— 
Gs upwards of two hundred. 

On the completion of this Dictionary, it was placed in the hands of 
Mr. William A. Wheeler, as a“ scholar of critical habits and 
approved experience,” to be revised and corrected for the press; and 
he has read every page of it with scrupulous care, both in the 
manuscript and the proofs, suggesting many alterations which have 
materially improved the work, besides furnishing contributions of 
his own, which have given it still greater intercit, value, and com- 
pleteness. 

As the preparation of this manual has been a pleasant task, the 
Author would fain hope that those who consult it may find the 
perusal equally pleasant; and that it may help, in however smalla 
degree, to extend and perpetuate the fame and influence of Charles 
Dickens, not only in his native land, where he rested his claims to 
remembrance, and in America, whose people he always regarded 
as “essentially one” with his own countrymen, but throughout the 

* world, which he has so warmed and cheered with the sunshine of 
his genius and humanity, and to whose intellectual wealth he has 
edded so much, 


APRIL 20, 1872, 








Contents. 





wack, 
Last ov InLusrmations. . . «© + + 2 © © © «© «© wf 


ALPHABETICAL ORDER OF DICKENS'S NOVELS AND TALES, WITH THE 
Dare or Tein Fins PUBLICATION Agi es Val eon 
DICTIONARY. «we ee ee ee to 
SeercmssY Bor. «ee + ee ee tee 
Picnwick PArems . 6 6 ee ew ee ee ee 
OuvenTwur. . 5 6 2 ee ee ees 
MUpFoG AssoclaTION 2 2 + ee 8h 8 ee el 
Nicuouas Niceuesy ©, ee ee ee ee 
Smxtours oy Youno COUPLES. ee e+ ee ee 
Masen Howpnmgrs Cook. 2. 6 ee ee ee 
OupCumosrrSHOF - 6 6 6 7 ee ee ee 
BagwaBy RUDGE « + 6 © © 8 © © © © © & 
CurisTuas CAROL «0s 8 ee lt lt le lt ll 
MARTIN CHUZZLEWIF 5 2 6 8 8 8 8 ee ee 
TreComms. 6 08 8 et we ee 
(CRICKET ON THR HEARTH oe 8 8 © © ew ee 
BarmzorLup . . . 
Domazr amp 80H 6 ee ee ee ee 
Hauerep Maw. 6 ee ee ee ee 
Davin CorrEByILD 0» 6 6 ee ew ee ee 
Busan Hou. «se 6 8 8 ee ee 
Wamp Toms . 6 ee tw tt ee 
BEVEN PooR TRAVELLERS 2 2 6 5 6 8 6 © © « 
‘HOLLY-Ters ee er i oe er i Ce er Ce ek | 
Tarn Domr. 5 4 es ee ee ee 





SSSSSRURERRESERSEERE SS. SE 


Tae oy Two Crime 6 ee Ce ee Te Ta 

Huxrep Dow. . 2 6 6 0 e 2 e 8 eo ee 
UMCOMMERCIAL TRAVELLER. 4 5 er |.) 
WaraT EXPECTATIONS «0. 5 0s 8 ee . oy 


Souznopr’s Luacacs 


Contents. 


Mus. Linnipea’s Lovomes . 
Mrs. Linniper’s LrGacr 
Ovg Morvan Fares 


Doctor MARIGOLD 
Bansox Broruzns 
Bor at Muonr . 
‘Two Guost-SToniEs 
Houpay RomaNcE: 


Groror Sttvensan’s EXPLANATION 
New UNcommercian SAMPLES 


Epwix Droop . 
REPRINTED PIECES 


Some UNCOLLECTED PIECES . 


ADDENDA... 


A CLAssED List oF CHARACTERS, ETO, 


GENERAL INDEX. 





List of Illustrations. 





Ouamtes Dickems’ . «5 6 6 6 0 6 06 6+ «| Brontispions 


[Engraved under the superintendence of A. V. 8. ABTHO. ¥.] 





Tne Proxwick Cope. eee ee + Paar 18 
Jor,Tme Far Bor. . - - 1 6 8 ee ee Pay 
Ovp WELLER AND THE COACHMEN. we ee ee ee 
Tue Artrun Dopore ann CHARLEY BATES. «© » 5 + + + 0 
CuEERYSLE BRoTHeRs AND TIM LINKINWATER ©. ee ed 
Mn. AND Mus. SquaeRs AND Masten WACKFORD =. «« ML 
QuILr, Mrs. Quitr, AND Mas. JumWIN,- . 4 ee +15 
Dick SWIVELLER AND THE MaRCHIONESS 2 0. 1 + eee 181 
Bos Crarcwrr ANDTINY TM. 1 ee ee ee ee 210 
Samer Gar aNp Bersey PRIGQ . «6 s+ + + 6 + 8 
Me. PECKSNIFF AND MIs DAUGHTERS =. 4. 6 + + ee OT 
Evsau Poonam amp Mes, Hommmy. . 6 6 ee ee + SL 
Capras COTTLE - 1 eee ee 
Caran Heer anp mis MOTHER... 4 e+ + ee es 0 
Mn. MicAwBER AND HIS Fammuy  . 1 4 + + + e+ + 88 

MOGOTTY AND BAREIS. =» - 6 + + 6 6 ee ee 818 
Wanowd SKIMPOLE- 6 ee ee ee ee 
Mr. TURVEYDROP AND HISSON. . - se 6 8 + + ee BOR 
Mn. BOUNDEPBY AND Mus. SPARSIT. . «5 + + + « + + 203 
STONEY CARTON AND THE SEAMSTRESS . 4 0. 0+ 0 6 ++ (405 
Jos Garnczry amp Mas.Joz . . 6 6 6 6 6 ee AT 
Puspiecoox AND WOPSLE 4 + 5 ee 6 ee e+ AC 
Ponsyar sg ee ee eee ee AD 
Wwe Bor ar Muar . . 6 6 6 1 ee ee el 


Alphabetical Order 


or 
DICKENS'S NOVELS AND MINOR TALES, 


‘Wren tax DAs oy rie Finest PUBLICATION, 


—_-—__ 


BARNABY RUDGE, is41. 
BATTLE OF LIFE, 1864. 
BLEAK HOUSE, 1852-53. 
BOY AT MUGBY, 1866. 
CHIMES, 1844. 
CHRISTMAS CAROL, 183. 
CRICKET ON THE HEARTH, 1845. 
DAVID COPPERFIELD, 1849-50, 
DOCTOR MARIGOLD, 1365. 
DOMBEY AND SON, 1846-48. 
GEORGE SILVERMAN'S EXPLANATION, 1968 
GREAT EXPECTATIONS, 1861, 
HARD TIMES, 1854. = 
HAUNTED MAN, 1848. 
HOLIDAY ROMANCE, 1868. 
HOLLY TREE, 1855. 
HUNTED DOWN, 1859. 
LITTLE DORRIT, 1855-57. 
MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT, 1843-44. 
MASTER HUMPHREY’S CLOCK, 1840-41. 
MRS. LIRRIPER'S LEGACY, 13864. 
MRS LIRRIPER'S LODGINGS, 1863. 
MUDFOG ASSOCIATION, 1837-38, 
MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD, 1870. 
NEW UNCOMMERCIAL SAMPLES, 1869. 
NICHOLAS NICKLEBY, 1338-39. 

xin 








xiv Aipdabetical @rver of 


OLD CURIOSITY SHOP, 180-41. 
OLIVER TWIST, 1837-39. 
OUR MUTUAL FRIEND, 1864-65. 
PICKWICK PAPERS, 1836-87. 
REPRINTED PIECES, 1858. 
Nawely:—Tue Brcoiro Lerrer-Warrse, 1850. 
Butt Sticeio, 1851. 
Bierns. Mrs. Mex, or Sox, 1852 
Curiy’s Daeau oF a Star, 1850. 
Cup's Story, 1852. 
Cunisras-Tree, 1850. 
Detective Pouice, 1850 
Dowx wits Tie Tipe, 1853. 
A Friant, 1851. 
‘Tae Guosr or An, 1850. 
‘Tas Lona Vorace, 1853. 
Lrixe Awaxe, 1852. 
A Monument or Frencu Four, 1861. 
Noster Savace, 1853. 
Nozopr's Story, 1853. 
Ox Dorr wits Insrector Fraxp, 1851. 
Ove Bore, 1852. 
Ove Exctise WareRixo-Piace, 1851, 
Ook Frexce WarErine-PLAce, 1854. 
Our Hoxoraste Frrexp, 1852. 
Our Scnoor, 1851. 
Our Vesrer, 1852. 
Our or THe Szasox, 1856. 
Our or Towr, 1856. 
A Piarep Agricie, 1852. 
A Poor Max's TALE or a Parewr, 1850. 
Poor Retatiox’s Storr, 1852. 
Price Buit; A Farry-Tate, 1855. 
Scuootsor’s Story, 1853. 
‘Tuner “Derective” Axzcpores, 1850. 
Wax i 4 Worxnouse, 1850. 
SEVEN POOR TRAVELLERS, 1854. 
BEETCHES BY BOZ, 1836. 

Namely: —Ovr Pantsn; containing The Beadle, the Pansh Engine 
the Schoolmaster; The Curate, the Old Lady, the Half 
psy Captain; The Four Sisters; The Election for Beadle 
‘The Broker’a Man; The Ladies’ Societies; Our Next-dco. 
Neighbor. 


Dickens's Novels and Minor Salen. 


SKETCUES BY BOZ, continued. 
‘Scrxes; containing The Streots— Morning; The Streets — 
Night; Shops and their Tenants; Sootland Yani; Seren 
Dials; Meditations in Monmouth Street; Hackney-Conch 
Stands; Doctors’ Commons; London Recreations; ‘The 
River ; Asdey’a; Grecowich Fair; PrivateTheatres; Vaux- 
hiali Gardens by Day; Early Cooches; Omnibuses; The 
Last Cab-Driver, and the First Omnibus Cad; A Parha- 
mentary Sketch; Pablic Dinners; The First of May; 
Brokers’ and,Marine-Store Shops ; Gin Shops; The Pawn- 
broker’s Shop ; Criminal Courts; A Visit to Newgate. 

Cuanacrens; confaining Thoughts nbout People; A Christ- 
mas Dinner ; The New Year; Miss Evans and the Eagle; 
‘The Parlor Orator; The Hospital Patient; ‘The Misplaced 
Attachment of Mr. Johw Dounce; The Mistaken Milliner; 
‘The Dancing Academy, Shabby-Gentool People; Making 
& Night of it; The Prisoners’ Van. 

‘Tates ; containing The Boarding-House; Mr. Minna and his 
Cousin; Sentiment; The Tuggses at Ramagate; Horatio 
Bparitosy; The Bieck Veil ; Tha Steam Excursion ; The 
Great Winglebury Duel; Mrs. Joseph Porter; A Passage 
in the Life of Mr. Watkins Tottle; The Bloomsbury 
Christening; Tho Drankard’s Death. 

SKETCHES OF YOUNG COUPLES, 1541. 

Namedy:—Tho Young Couplo; The Formal Couple; The Loving 
Couple ;'The Contradictory Couple; ‘The Couple who Dote 
mpon their Children; The Cool Couple; The Plausible 
Couple; The Nice Little Couple; The Egotistical Couple; 
‘The Couple who Coddle Themselves ; The Old Couple. 

SOME UNCOLLECTED PIECES. 

Namely: —Is Sun mis Wirn! 1837. 

‘Tux Lawrricnren’s Stony, 1841. 

Paxromtut ov Lire, 1837. 

Posto Livx or Mu. Torncmnxe, 1837. 

‘Tux Srmaxox Gextiemax, 1837. 

‘Tue Vittacn Cogverres, 1836. 

SOMEBODY'S LUGGAGE, 1862. 
TALE OF TWO CITIES, 1839. 

TWO GHOST STORIES, 186s, '66. 
UNCOMMERCIAL TRAVELLER, 1860. 





THE DICKENS DICTIONARY. 


Sketches by Bo;, 


TLLUSTRATIVE OF EVERY-DAY LIFE AND EVERY-DAY PEOPLE. 


‘Tikes are 8 collection of short pleors, comprising Mr. Dickens's first attempts at 
sathorshtp, und containing the germs of many of the characters which were more 
Khlly developed in his tater works, They were originally contribated to “The 
Mouthiy Magaxine” (“The Old Monthly,” as it was called to distingulsh st from 
Colburn’s “ New Monthly"), “The Morning Chronicle," and “Bell's Life in Lan- 
on" In 1695 they were brought together, and republished, with illustrations by 
George Craftshank, in two series, of which the former was contained In two vol- 
mes, and the latter none. The very first of these Sketches” was that entitled 
“Mrs. Joseph Porter.” It appeared in “The Mosthly Magazine” for January, 
184. The firet In which Dickens sssumed the pseudonym of “ Hox” was the 
second part oF chapter of “The osrdlng-House” which came out {x the same 
magazine in August, 164. Of the origin of this namo, the suthor has given the 
fillowing sccount: “* Boz’ was the nickname of a pet child, a younger brother 
{Angustus Dickens}, whom I had dubbed Moses in honor of the Vioar of Wake- 
Geld; which, being facetiously pronounced through the nose, became Boses, and, 
being shortened, became Boz. ‘Box’ was a vers familiar household word to me 
‘yng before I was an author; and 40 I came to adopt 1t.” It will be een that 
‘4.0 name was originally pronounced with the Jong sound of o, as If spelt Loses 
Dut the public, being ignorant of its derivation, naturally enough gave the vowel 
the abort sound, asin Lob, Thus Mood says, in the verses he wrote on the ooce 
‘don of Dickenw’s leaving England for America in 1542, —~ 


“Though s pledge had to shiver, 
And the longest ever was, 
Ere his vessel left our river, 

Kwoald dink « health to Des * 





2 Ebe Michens Mictlonacy. 


“Mr. Dicknos's ¢wn estimate of «The Sketches "—giren tn 1880, tn the Pretuoe 
toa new edition of them—was, that they are“ often extremely erude and ill-con- 
sidered, bearing obvious marks of haxte and Inexperienoe, particularly in that 
scetion of the yolume which ts comprised under the general hesd of Tales Such, 
however, was thelr mingled shrewdacss, hamor, and pathoa, 40 varied and graphie 
were they, that they speedily became very popular; and for time, indeed, the de 
mand was greater than the eupply. 


CHARACTERS INTRODUCED, 


OUR PARISH. 
THE BEADLE. 


Simmons. Parish beadle, and prototype of Mr. Bumble ip 
“ Oliver Twist.” 
THE FOUR SISTERS. 


Lawson, Mr, A surgeon, &e., in attendance on Mrs. Robinson at 
the time of her confinement. 

Robinson, Mr, A gentleman in a public office, who marries the 
youngest Miss Willis, though he has to court her three sisters also, 
as they are all completely identified one with another. 

Willises, The four Miss. Four sisters in “our parish,” who 
seem to have no separate existence, and who drive the neighbor 
hood distracted by keeping profoundly secret the name of the 
fortunate one who is to marry Mr. Robinson. 


ELECTION FOR BEADLE. 


Bung, Mr, A man of thirty-five years of age, with five small 
children; a candidate for the office of beadle, which he obtains by 
a large majority. (See below. ) 

Purday, Captain, A bluff and unceremonious old naval officer 
on halfpay (first introduced, though not mentioned by name, in 
the sketch entitled “The Curate”). He is a determined opponent 
of the constituted authorities, whoever they may chance to be, and 
zealously supports Bung for beadle. 

Spruggins, Mr. Thomas. Defeated candidate for beadle; a 
little thin mag, fifty years old, with a pale face expressive of care 











Sketches oy Bos. 


‘and fatigue, owing, perhaps, to the fact of his having ten small 
children (two of them twins) and a wife. 

Mrs. His wife. She solicits votes for ber husband, 
‘and increases the general prepossession which at first provails in 
his favor by her personal appearance, which indicates the grebae 
bility of a still further addition, at no remote period, to his already 
large family. 

THE BROKER'S MAN. 

Bung, Mr. A broker’s assistant, afterwards the parish beadla 
(See above.) One of thoso careless, good-for-nothing, happy 
fellows who float cork-like on the surface for the world to play at 
hockey with. 

Fixem. A broker, who assumes the alias of Smith; Bung’s master. 

John. A servant. 

THE LADIES’ SOCIETIES. 


Browns, The three Miss, Members of various visitation com- 
tmittees and charitable societies, and admirers of the curate, who Is 


a young man, and unmarried. They are opposed to— 

Parker, Mrs. Johnson. The mother of seven extremely fine 
girls, —all unmarried,—and the founder of a Ladios’ Bible and 
Prayer-Book Distribution Society, from which the Miss Browns are 
excluded. 


‘OUR NEXT-DOOR NEIGHBOR. 


William. A young man who overtasks himself to earn a support 
for himself and his widowed mother, and at last dies in her arms. 


SCENES. 


THE STREETS, —NIGHT. 


Mrs. An inhabitant of No. 4 in one of the little streets 
in the suburbs of London. 
Peplow, Mrs. A neighbor of Mrs. Macklin. 
Peplow, Master. Her son. 
Mr, A little round-faced man, in the comic line, with a 
-mnixed afr of velfdenial and mental consciousness of his own powers. 
Walker, Mrs, An inbabitan of No. 5 in the same street with 
‘Mrs, Macklin. 





Ede Wickens Wictlenacy, 


SEVEN DIALS. 


Mary. A woman who has taken “threo-cuts” enough of gin and 
bitters to make her quarrelsome. 

Sarah. A vixen who falls out with her, and settles the difficulty 
by a resort to blows. 


DOCTORS' COMMONS. 


Bumple, Michael. Promoter, or complainant, against Mr. Slud- 
berry, in a brawling case. 

Bludberry, Thomas, A little red-fuced, sly-looking, ginger-beer 
seller, defendant in the caso of “Bumple against Sludberry ;” son 
tenced to excommunication for a fortnight and payment of costs. 


LONDON RECREATIONS, 

Bill, Uncle. One of a party of Sunday pleasurers at a tea-garden ; 
considered a great wit by his friends. 

Bally. His niece, joked by Uncle Bill about her marriage, and her 
first baby, because a certain young man is “keeping company” 
with her. 

THE RIVER, 


Dando, A boatman. 
ASTLEY'S. 
Woolford, Miss, A circus-rider. 
PRIVATE THEATRES. 


Larkins, Jem. An amateur actor in the genteel comedy line, 
known to the public as Mr. Horatio St. Julian. 

Logging, Mr. A player who takes the part of Macbeth, and is 
announced on the bills as Mr. Beverley. 


VAUXHALL GARDENS BY DAY. 
Green, Mr. An seronaut. 
Green, Mr., jun. His son and assistant. 
THE LAST CAB-DRIVER AND THE FIRST OMNIBUS-CAD. 


. William, commonly called But Boorxer or 

enawatin Brut. An omnibus-cad, with a remarkable talent 

for enticing the youthful and unwary, and shoving the oid and help 
Jess, into the wrong "bus. 





BPketches by Bes. 


A PARLIAMENTARY SKETCH. 


Captain, The. A spare, squeaking old man, always damning bis 
own eyes or“ somebody else's,” and « complete walking-reservoir 
of spirits and water. 

Jane. The Hebe of “Bellamy’s,” or the refreshment-rocm of the 
Houses of Parliament. She has a thorough contempt for the great 
majority of her visitors, and a great love of admiration. 

Nicholas. The butler of “Bellamy’s.” He hus held the same 
place, dressed exactly in the same manner, and said precisely the 
same things, ever since the oldest of its present visitors can 
remember, 

Tom, Honest. A metropolitan member of the House of Commons, 


THE FIRST OF MAY. 


Bluffen, Mr., of Adam-and-Eve Court. A speaker at the anni 
vermry dinner given to the chimney-sweeps on May-day at White 
Conduit House. 


THE PAWNBROKER'S SHOP. 


Henry, Mr, A pawnbroker, whose shop is near Drury Lane. 
A customer, dirty, intoxicated, and quarrelsome. 
Mackin, Mrs, Another customer, slipshod and abusive. 
Tatham, Mrs. An old woman who tries to borrow eighteen pence 
or « shilling on a child's frock and “a beautiful silk ankecher.” 


CHARACTERS. 
THOUGHTS ABOUT PEOPLE. 
‘Smith, Mr. A poor clerk, a mere passive ‘creature of habit and 
endurance. 


A CHRISTMAS DINNER. 
George, Aunt. The hostess at whose house the Christmas fumily- 


party assemble. 

George, Uncle. Her husband. 

Jane, Aunt. Another mouiber of the family, 

Margaret, Aunt. Married :o « poor man, and treated eolily by 
her relations in consequence. 

Robert, Uncle. Husband to dunt Jane. 





Ede Dickens Dictlonacy 


THE NEW YEAR. 

Dobble, Mr. aclerk ina public office, who gives a quadrille party 
on New Year's eve, 

Dobble, Mr., Jun. His son. 

Dobble, Miss Julia, His eldest daughter. 

Dobble, Mrs. His wife. 

Tupple, Mr. A junior clerk in the same office with Mr. Dobble; 
@ young man with a texdency to cold and corns, but “a charming 
person,” and “a perfect tadies’ man.” 

MISS EVANS AND THE EAGLE. 


Bvans, Miss Jemima (called “J'mima Ivins” by her acquaint- 
ances). A shoe-binder and straw-bonnet-maker, affianced to Mr. 
Samuel Wilkins, 

Evans, Miss Tilly. One of her sisters. 

Evans, Mrs. Her mother, 

Wilkins, Mr. Samuel. A journeyman carpenter of small di- 
monsions, “keeping company” with Miss Jemima Evans. 


THE PARLOR ORATOR. 


Ellis, Mr. A tharp-nosed man with a very slow and soft voice, 
who considers Mr, Rogers “such improving company.” 

Rogers, Mr. A stoutish man of about forty, with « red face and a 
confident oracular air, which marks him as a leading politician, 
gencral authority, and universal anecdote-relater. Proof is what 
he requires—proof, not assertions —in regard to any thing and 
avery thing whatsoever. 

Tommy. little chubby-faced green-grocer, of great good sense, 
who opposes Mr. Rogers, and is denounced by him, in consequence, 
asa willing slave” 


THE HOSPITAL PATIENT. 


Jack. A young fellow who treats his paramour ¢o brutally as ta 
eauve her death, and yet is so loved by her, even to the last, that 
she cannot be persuaded to swear his life away, but dies praying 
God to bless him. 


THE MISPLACED ATTACHMENT OF MR. JOHN DOUNCE 


Dounce, Mr. John. A fat, red-faced, white-head:d old boy, s 
retired glove and braces maker, and a widower. He falls in love 








Bhetcdes dy Boz. 7 


‘with a bewitching barmaid, who trifles with his affections, and at 
Tast tells bim plainly that she “ wouldn't have him at no price;” 


bby the last of whom he is accepted, married, — and ‘horoughly 


benpecked. 
Barris, Mr. A law-tationer and a jolly old follow; » friend of 
Mr. Dounce. 

Jennings, Mr, A robe-maker; also a friend of Mr. Dounce, and 
asad dog in bis time. 

Jones, Mr. Another friend,  barrister's clerk, and « rum fellow, 
— capital company, — full of anecdote. 


THE MISTAKEN MILLINER. 


Martin, Miss Amelia. A williner and dressmaker who has an 
ambition to “come out” as a public singer, and tries it, but fails 


miserably. 
Rodolph, Mr. and Mrs. Jennings. Her friends and counsel- 
lors, 


THE DANCING ACADEMY. 

Billsmethi, Signor. A popular dancing-master. 

Billsmethi, Master. His son. 

Billsmethi, Miss. His daughter, a young Indy with her hair 
ourled in a crop all over her head, and ber shoes tied in sandals all 
over ber ankles. She sets ber cap for Mr. Cooper, and, not suc- 
ceeding in securing him for a husband, brings a suit for breach of 
promise, but finally compromises the matter for twenty pounds, four 
shillings, and 

Cooper, Mr. Augustus. A young gentleman of Fetter Lane, 
‘in the cil-and-color business, just of age, with a little : maar S 
Tittle business, and a little mother. 


MAKING A NIGHT OF IT. 

Potter, Mr. Thomas. A clerk in the city, with a limited income, 
and an unbounded friendship for Mr. Smithers. 

Smithers, Mr. Robert. Also a clerk in the city, knit by the 
closest ties of intimacy and friendship to Mr. Potter. On the 
‘rectipt of their quarter’s salary, these two “thick-and-thin pals,” 
as they style themselves, spend an ovening together, and procoed- 
tog by degrees from simple hilarity to drunkenness, commit various 





Ebe Mickens Mictionacg. 


breaches of the peace; are locked up in the station-bouse for the 
night; brought before the police court in the morning, and each 
fined five shillings for being drank, and thirty-four pounds for sev- 
entocn assaults at forty shillings a bead, 

THE PRISONERS’ VAN. 


Bella. A young girl, not fourteen, forced by a sordid and rapacious 
mother to a life of vice and crime, which she loathes, bat cannot 
escape from. 

Bmily. Her sister, hardened in depravity by two additional 
years’ experience of the debauchery of London streetlife, and 
priding herself on being “game.” 


TALES. 


THE BOARDING-HOUSE. 


Agnes, Mru. Bloas's maid. 

Bloss, Mrs. ‘The wealthy widow of a cork-cutter, whose cook she 
had been. Having nothing to do, she imagines she mast be ill, 
but cats amazingly, and has the appearance of being remarkably 
well. She makes the acquaintance ef Mr, Gobler, and marries 
him. 

Calton, Mr. Asuporannuated beau, exceedingly vain, inordinately 
selfish, and the very pink of politeness. He makes himself agreeable 
to Mrs. Maplesone, and agroes to marry her; but, failing to do eo, 
she sues him for breach of promise, and recovers a thousand pounds, 

Bvonson, Mr. John, A stern, morose, and discontented man, a 
thorough radical, and a universal fault-finder. 

Gobler, Mr, A lazy, selfish hypochondriac, whose digestion is so 
tmuch impaired, and whose interior so deranged, that his stomack 
is not of the least use to him, 

Hicks, Mr. Septimus. A tallish, white-faced, spectacled young 
man, who has the reputation of being very talented. He falls in 
love with Miss Matilda Maplesone, whom he marries, but after 
wards Weserts, 

James, A vervant to Mrs. Tibbs. 

Maplesone, Mrs, An enterprising widow of fifty, shrewd, schem- 
img, and good-looking, with no objection to marrying again, if i 
‘would benefit her dear girls 





Buertedes by Bos. 9 


Maplesone, Misa Julia. Her younger daughter; married to 
‘Mr. Septimus Hicks, 

Maplegone, Miss Matilda. Her elder daughter; married to 
‘Mr, Simpson. 

O'Bleary, Mr. Frederick. A patriotic Irishman recently im- 
ported in a perfectly wiki state; in search of employment, antl 
ready to do or be any thing that might turn up. 

Robinson. A female servant to Mrs. Tibbs. 

Simpson, Mr. One of the “walking gentlemen” of society; ar 
empty-headed young man, always dressed according to the carlea~ 
fares published in the monthly fashions, 

Tibbs, Mr. A short man, with very short legs, but a foe pocaliar- 
ly Jong, by way of Indemnification. He Is to his wife what the 0 
is in 90,— of some importance with her, but nothing without her. 

Tibbs, Mra. His wifo, mistress of the boarding-house; the most 
tidy, fidgety, thrifty little person that ever inhaled the smoke of 
Loniion. 


Tomkins, Mr. Alfred. Clerk in a wine-house; a connoisseur in 
paintings, and with a wonderfal eye for the picturesque. 

‘Wisbottle, Mr. A clerk in the Woods und Forests office, and a 
high Tory ; addicted to whistling, and having a great idea of his 


powers. 
Wosky, Doctor. Mrs. Bloss's medical attendant, who has 
amassed # fortane by invariably humoring the worst fancies of his 
female patients. 
MR. MINNS AND HIS COOSIN. 


Brogson, Mr. An elderly gentleman visiting at Mr. Budden's. 

Budden, Mr. Octavius. A retired corm-chandlcr, residing at 
Amelia Cottage, Poplar Walk, Stamford Hill. He is a cousin to 
Me. Minn. 

Budden, Mrs. Amelia. His wife. 

Budden, Master Alexander Augustus. Their son, a pre 
eocious child, ant the pride of his parents. 

Jones, Mr. A little man with red whiskers, a visitor at Mr. Bud- 
den's, and s “devilisn sharp fellow talks equally well on 


any subject. . 

Minns, Mr. Augustus. A clerk in Somersct Youre, and a 
Preciee, tidy, retiring old bachelor, who is always getting into 
trouble when he leaves his own snug and well-ordered apartments, 





10 Ede Dickens Mictlonarp. 


and who is thoroughly disgusted, with » visit which he J= cumpelled 
to make to his cousin, Mr. Octavius Budden. 


SENTIMENT, 


Butler, Mr. Theodosius. A very wonderful genius, euthor of = 
pamphlet entitled “ Considerations on the Policy of Removing the 
Duty on Beeswax.” This he presents to Cornelius Brook Ding 
wall, Esq. M-P., under the assumed name of Edward M'Neville 
Walter, and thus gains admission to his house, and an opportunity 
of winning the heart of his supersentimental daughter. 

Crumpton, Miss Amelia. A very tall, thin, skinny, upright, 
yellow, and precise maiden lady, with the strictest possible idea of 
propriety. 

Crumpton, Miss Maria. The exact counterpart of her sister,in 
conjunction with whom she carries on a finishing-school for young 
ladies, called * Minerva House.” 

Dadson, Mr. Writing-master at the Miss Crumptons’ school. 

Dadson, Mra. His wife. 

Dingwall, Cornelius Brook, Esq., M.P. A very haughty, 
solemn, and portentous man, having a great opinion of his own 
abilities, and wonderfully proud of being a member of parliament. 

Dingwall, Mrs. Brook. His wife. 

Dingwall, Frederick, Son of Mr. and Mrs. Brook Dingwall; 
one of those public nuisances, — a spoiled ehild. 

Dingwall, Miss Lavinia Brook, Their daughter, the most 
romantic of all romantic young ladies ; in love with Edward M'Ner- 
ile Walter (otherwise Mr, Theodosius Butler), @ young man much 
her inferior in life. She Is therefore sent to the Miss Crumptons’ 
educational establishment, to eradicate the sentimental attachment 
from her young mind, on the supposition that she can have nc op- 
portunity of meeting him there. She does meet him, however, and 
runs away with and marries him in haste, only to repent at leisure 

Hilton, Mr. Master of ceremonies ata ball at Minerva House. 

James, Servant to Mr. Brook Dingwall. 

Lobskini, Signor. A singing-master, with a splendid tenor 


voie, 
Parsons, Miss Lestitia. A brilliant musical porformer. 
‘Bmithers, Miss Emily, The belle of Minerva House. 
Wilson, Miss Caroline. Her bosom-ftiend, and the uglicat gir 
to Hammersmith, —or out of it, 





Bketcdes by Boy 


THE TUGGSES AT RAMSGATE. 


Amelia, Jane, and Mary Ann. Young ladies who take part 
in games of chance in a concertroom at Ramsgate. 

Blaughter, Lieutenant. A friend of Captain Waters. 

Tippin, Mr. A comic singer at Ramsgate. 

Tippin, Mrs. His wife; a concert-singer from the London ‘heatron 


Tippin, Master, Their son. 

Tippin, Miss. Their daughter; a performer on the guitar. 

Tuggs, Mr. Joseph. A little pursy London grocer, with shiny 
hair, twinkling eyes, and short legs. By the unexpected decision 
of a long-pending law-suit, he comes into possession of twenty 
thousand pounds, whereupon he incontinently putson airs, closes 
his shop, and starts with his family for Ramsgate, that being » 
fashionable watering-place. 

Tuggs, Mrs. His wife; in charge of the checeemongery depart- 
ment, while her husband is a shop-keeper. 

Tuggs, Miss Charlotte. Their only daughter. When her fae 
ther becomes rich, she calls herself Charlotta. 

* Tuggs, Mr. Simon. Their only eon; a young gentleman with 
that elongation in his thoughtful face, and that tendency to weak- 
ness in his interesting legs, which tell so forcibly of a great mind 
and romantic disposition. At first, he is a book-keeper in his fa- 
ther’s shop; but, when a large fortune suddenly falls to the family, 
he changes the orthographical architecture of his name, and styles 
himself Cymon ; attempts to play the gentleman ; and roundly abus- 
es his father for not appearing aristocratic. Going to Ramagate, 
he is neatly taken in and swindled by Captain Waters and his wife, 
‘whom he meets there, and greatly admires, — especially the wife. 
‘He eecapes with the loss of his veneration for appearances, and of 
fifteen hundred pounds In money. 

Waters, Captain Walter. A pretended military man, and a 
sharper. 


Waters, Mrs. Belinds. His wife; 
ringlots, large black cyes, brief petticoats, and unexceptionable 
ankles. 
HORATIO SPARKINS. 
Barton, Mr. Jacob. [P-otner of Mra Malderton; a large grocer, 
who mover scrupled *o avow that he wasn’t above his business, 
He'd made his money by it, and he didn’t care who know'd it.” 





‘or, but, om great occasions, tomcbed up and brushed to look like a 
recon footman. 

Malderton, Mr. (of Oak Lodge, Camberwell). A man who has 
become rich in consequence of a few successful specalations, and 
who ts horpttable from ostentation, illiberal from ignorance, and 
prejudiced from conceit. The whole scope of his ideas is limited 
to Lioyda, the Exchange, the India Hoare, and the Bank. 

Maldorton, Mrs, His wife; a little fat woman, with a great aver. 
tion to any thing low. 

Malderton, Miss Marianne, Their younger danghter ; a senti- 
mental damsel, 

Malderton, Miss Teresa, Their elder daughter; a young lady 
of eight nnd twenty, who has flirted for ten years in vain, but is 
still on the lookout for a husband. 

Malderton, Mr. Frederick. Their elder son; the vory Beau 
ideal of & #mart waiter, and the family authority on all points of 
taste, dress, ond fashionable arrangement. 

Malderton, Mr. Thomas, Their younger son; snubbed by his 
futher on all occasions, with a view to prevent his becoming 
“aharp,"— a very unnecessary precaution. 

S3parkins, Mr, Horatio, A young man whose dashing manners 
‘and gentiomantike appearance so dazzle the Maldertons, that they 
think be must be a man of lange fortune and aristocratic fumily 
‘They even go so far as to suspect that he may be a nobleman, and 
taro greatly mortified at last to discover that he is a mere clerk in a 
lloon-draper’s shop, and owns to the plebelan name of Smith. 


THE STEAM EXCURSION. 


Reigga, Mrs, A widow-lady ; 1 rival of Mrs, Taunton, 

Briggs, Miss, One of her three daughters, 

Briggs, Mias Julia, Another daughter. 

Driggs, Miss Kate, Another daughter. 

Briggs, Mr. Alexander. Her younger son, articled to his broth: 
Wr. Hy is remarkable for obstinacy. 

Briggs, Mr, Samuel. Hor elder son; an attorney, and a mere 
Mmachino; a fort of volfacting, legal walking-stick. 





Stetcdes dy Boy. ot 


Edkins, Mr. (of the Inner Temple). A pale young gentleman 
ina green stock and green spectacles, who makes a speech om 
every occasion on which one can possibly be made. 

Fleetwood, Mr. One of the excursion party. 

Fleetwood, Mrs. His wifs, who sccompanies him. 

Fleetwood, Master. Their eon; an unfortunate innocent of 
about four years of age. 

Hardy, Mr. A stout, middle-aged gentleman, with « red fare, a 
somewhat hnsky voice, and a tremendous laugh. He is a practical 
joker, is immensely popular with married ladics, and a general 
favorite with young men. 

Helves, Capt. A military gentleman with a bass voice and an 
incipient red mustache; a friend of the Tauntons. 

Noakes, Mr. Percy. A law-student, smart, spoflish, and eight 
and twenty. With a few friends he attempts to get up an excur- 
sion party to which no one shall be invited who has not received 
the unanimous vote of a committee of arrangements. But the ob- 
stinate Mr. Alexander Briggs being a member of this committee, 
and blackballing everybody who is proposed by Mr. Noakes or his 
friends, the original plan is abandoned; and every gentleman is 
allowed to bring whom he pleases. The party start on a Wednes- 
day morning for the Nore, and reach it after a pleasant trip; but 
onthe return a violent squall comes up; the pitching and tossing of 
the boat bring on a general seasickness; and, when they get back 
to the wharf at two o'clock the next morning, every one is thor- 
oughly dispirited and worn out. 

Stubbs, Mra. A dirty old laundress, with an inflamed counte- 
nance. 

Taunton, Mrs. A good-looking widow of fifty, with the form ot 
agiantess and the mind of a child. Tho sole end of her exist- 
ence is the pursuit of pleasure, and some means of killing time. 
She is a particular friend of Mr. Percy Noakes, and a mortal 
enemy of the Briggses. 

Taunton, Miss Emily, Her daughter; a frivolous young lady. 

klerd Miss Sophia, Another daughter, as light-minded as 

sister, 


THE GREAT WNGLEBURY OUEL. 


Brown, Miss Emily. A young Indy beloved by both | 
and Mr. eae but finally married ‘o the latter. 








u“ Sbe Mickens D ctlonarp. 


Hunter, Mr. Horace. Rival of Mr. Trott for the hand of Miss 
Emily Brown. 

Manners, Miss Julia. A buxom and wealthy woman of forty, 
formerly engaged to be married to a Mr. Cornberry, who died leav- 
ing her a large property unencumbered with the addition of hime 
self. Being in want of a young husband, ahe falls in love with a 
certain wild and prodigal nobleman, Lord Peter, who falls in low 
with her handsome fortune of three thousand pounds a year; b _ 
in the end she marries plain Mr. Trott. 

Overton, Joseph, Hsq. Solicitor, and mayor of Great Win 
glebury. 

Peter, Lord, A dissipated sprig of nobility, attached to Miss 
Manners (or her money) ; killed by being thrown from his horse 
ina steeple-chase. 

Thomas. A waiter at the Winglebury Arne. 

Trott, Mr, Alexander. A cowardly young tailor (or umbrella- 
maker). He desires to marry Miss Emily Brown, but is deterred 
by the hostile attitude of Mr. Horace Hunter, who challenges him 
to mortal combat for daring to think of such a thing. He accepts 
the challenge in a blood-thirsty note, but immediately sends an- 
other, and an anonymous one, to the mayor of Great Winglebury, 
urging that Mr, Trott be forthwith arrested. By a ludicrous blunder, 
he is mistaken for Lord Peter, who is expected at the Winglebury 
Arms for the purpose of meeting Miss Julia Manners, his intend- 
ed, and who is to be seized and carried off as an insane person, 
In order that his relatives may not discover him. Thus it happens 
that Trott is taken away in a carriage with Miss Manners, and, 
mutual explanations having been made, that he marries her 
instead of the adorable Miss Emily Brown. 

Willlamson, Mrs, Landlady of the Winglebury Arms. 

MRS. JOSEPH PORTER. 

Balderstone, Mr. Thomas, called “Uxcre Tom.” 4 rich 
brother of Mra. Gattleton, always in a good temper, and always 
talking and joking. 

Brown, Mr. A performer on the violoncello st the private theat- 
ricals. 

Cape, Mr. A violinist. 

Bvans, Mr, A tall, thin, and pale young gentleman, with lovely 
whiskers. and a remarkable talent fer writing verses in albums, ane 


Sketches vy Bos 15 
for playing the flute. He ix the Roderigo of the private theat 
Ticals. 


Gattleton, Mr, A retired stockbroker, living at Rose Villa, Clap- 
bam Rise, He is infected, as are the other members of his fami- 
ly, with » mania for private theatricals, acting himself as prompter 

Gattleton, Mrs. His wife; a kind-hearted, good-tempered, vul- 
gar soul, with a natural antipathy to other people's unmarried 
daughters, a bodily fear of ridicale, and « great dislike for Mrs. 
Joseph Porter. 

Gattleton, Miss, One of their three daughters. 

Gattleton, Miss\ iti ‘Another daughter; the Fenella of the 


part of Desdemona. 

Gattleton, Mr. Sempronius. Theirson, at once stage-manager 
and Othello. 

Harleigh, Mr. A singer, who takes the part of Masaniello. 

Jenkins, Miss. A piano-player. 

Porter, Mrs. Joseph. A sarcastic scandal-monger, who delights 
in making other people uncomfortable. At the private theatricals 
of the Gattletons, she indulges her propensity to mischief-making 
by setting on Mr. Thomas Balderstone (who prides himself on his 
accurate knowledge of Shakspeare) to interrupt the performers in 
the very midst of the play by correcting their numerous mistakes, 

Porter, Miss Emily. Her daughter. 

Wilson, Mr. The Jago of the private theatricals. 


A PASSAGE-IN THE LIFE OF MR. WATKINS TOTTLE 


Lcoy. ‘The factotum of Mr. Solomon Jacobs's sponzing-house. 

Jacobs, Mr. Solomon. A bailiff, living in Curaitor Street. 

Jom. A sallow-faced, red-haired, sulky boy in charge of the dom 
‘of Mr. Jacobs's private lock-up. 

John. Servant to Mrs. Parsons. 

Miss, A prim spinster of uncertain age, with = com- 
Plexion as clear ae that of wax doll, and a face as expressive. 

Martha. Servant to Mrs. Parsons. 

Parsons, Mr. Gabriel, An elderly and rich sugarbaker, who 
mistakes rodeness for houvecy, and abrupt bluntness for an open 
and candid manner. 

Parsons, Mrs. Fanny. His wife. 





16 Ede Dickens Mictlonary. 


Timson, The Reverend Charles, A friend of Mr. Parsons 
‘He marries Miss Lillerton. 

Tottle, Mr. Watkins. A plump, clean, rosy bachelor of fifty; a 
compound of strong uxorious inclinations and an unparalleled degree 
of anti-connubial timidity, Having been arrested for debt, and con- 
fined in a sponging-house, his friend Parsons engages to pay the 
debt, and take him out, if he will agree to marry Miss Lillerton, 
who las five hundred pounds a year in her own right, On being 
released, he offers himself to that lady, but after such an awkward 
and ambiguous fashion, that she quite mistakes his meaning, and 
answers him ina way that makes him think himself accepted. On 
being sent by her with » note—respecting their marringe, as ha 
supposes —to the Reverend Mr. Timson, it transpires that she has 
been engaged to that gentleman for several weeks. The upshot of 
the whole affair is, that Mr, Parsons renounces the friendship and 
acquaintance of Mr. Tottle, who takes refuge from “ the slings and 
arrows of outrageous fortune” by walking into the Regent's Canal. 

Walker, Mr. An imprisoned debtor, inmate of Mr. Solomon 
Jacobs's private lock-up. 

Willis, Mr. Another inmate of the samo establishment 


THE BLOOMSBURY CHRISTENING. 


Danton, Mr. A young man with a considerable stock of impu- 
dence, and a very small share of ideas, who passes for awit. He 
is a friend of Mr. Kitterbell’s, and a great favorite generally, espe- 
cially with young ladies. 

Dumps, Mr, Nicodemus, called “Loxa Dumrs." An old 
bachelor, never happy but when he is miserable, and always miser- 
able when he has the best reason to be happy, and whose only real 
comfort is to make everybody about him wretched. He is uncle to 
Mr. Charles Kitterbell, and, having been invited to stand as god- 
father to that gentleman’s infant eon, reluctantly does so, but takes 
his revenge by suggesting the most dismal possibilities of sickness 
and accident as altogether likely to happen to tho child, and by 
making a spire at the supper after the christening, so Ingubrious 
and full of gloomy forebodings as to throw Mrs. Kitterbell inte 
riolen- hysterics, thus breaking up the party, and enabling him 
to walk home with a cheerful heart. 

Kitterbell, Mr. Charles. A small, sharp, spare man, with ar 
extraordinarily large head and a cast in his eye; very eredalous 
and matterof fact. 





Sketches by Boz. " 


Eitterbell, Mrs. Jemima. His wife; a tall, thin young lady 
with very light hair, a particularly white face, a slight cough, and a 
smile. 


languid 
Eitterbell, Master Frederick Charles William, Their 
first baby. 


THE DRUNKARD'S DEATH. 


Tom. One of the officers who arrest young Warden. 

Warden, A confirmed und irreclaimable drunkard. Remorse, 
fear, and shame; the loss of friends, happiness, and station; the 
death of his wife from grief and care; the murder of one of his 
sons, whom he bad driven from home in a drunken fit; his own 
betrayal of another eon into the hangman's hands from a like cause; 
his final desertion by his daughter, who has stayed by him and sup- 
ported him for years; the utmost extremity of poverty, discase, and 
‘houseless want, —do not avail to conquer his fierce rage for drink, 
which drives him remorselessly on, until at last he seeks release in 
death by drowning himself in the Thames. 

Warden, Mary. His daughter. 

Warden, William. His son. He avenges his brother's death by 
killing the gamekeeper who shot him; flees from justice to his 
Exther’s solitary attic-room in the obscurest portion of Whitefriars ; 
fs discovered by the officers in consequence of his father’s getting 
‘intoxicated and betraying his hiding-place ; and is seized, hand- 
cuffed, carried off, and made to suffer the penalty of his crima 

r 





Posthumous Papers of the Pick- 
wick Club, 


‘Tunis work was issued in monthly shilling numbers, with green covers, —a form 
of poblieation which Mr. Dickens adopted in all his subsequent monthly serials. 
The first number appeared in March, 1836, with four (ilustrations by Robert Bey 
mour. But this artist dying auddenly, before the publication of the second num- 
ber (for which, howover, he had furnished three plates), a Mr, RW. Buss was chow 
en to succeed him ; and two plates “ drawn and etched ” by this gentleman appeared 
inNo, 3, But they were xo Inferior both in conception and execution, that he was 
Giemtesed, and Mr. Hablot Knight Browne was seleoted as the illustrator of the 
work, furnishing the two plates for No.4. In No. 8 he used for the first time the 
pecadonym of PAte, which be has ever since retained. In the second edition of 
tho work, the publishers cancelled the two plates by Mr. Buss, which appeared in 
the third number, and substituted two others by Mr. Browne, 

‘The suthor has given the following account of the origin of the work: “The 
idea propounded to me was, that the moottily something should be # vehicle for 
certain plates to be executed by Mr, Seymour; and there was # notion, either on 
the part of that admirable humorous artist, or of my visitor (Mr. Chapman, of the 
publishing-house of Chapman and Hall] (I forget which), that a*Nimrod Club,’ 
the members of which were to go out shooting, fishing, and so forth, and getting 
themselves {nto difficulties through thelr want of dexterity, would be the best 
means of introducing these. I objected, on consideration, that, although born and 
partly bred in the country, I was no great sportsman, except In regard of all kinds 
of locomotion; that the idea was not novel, and had been already much used; that 
tt would be Influite'y better for the plates to arise naturally ont of the text; and 
that 1 should like to take my own way, with @ freer range of English scenes and 
‘weople, and was afraid I should ultimately do so in any case, whatever course f 
might prescribe to myself atstarting. My views being deferred to, T thought of 
Mr. Pickwick, and wrote the first number; from the proof.sheets of which Mr. 
Seymour mado his drawing of the elub, and that happy portrait of its founder by 
‘whioh he is always recognized, and which may be eald to have made him a reality 


Heonnected Mr. Pickwick with x club, because of the original suggestion; and | 
6 








| WAID ADIMADId AHL 





She Plckwiee wy. 





8 at) 


ui “a Mr. Winkle expressiy for the mse of Mr. Seymour." The coneiption of 
Pickwick as an elderly little gentleman, somewhat parsy, with a bland face, bald 
bead, efrenlar apectacles, faurn-colored tights, and black gaiters, Is sald to hare 
originated in w description by Mr. Chapman of a like odd-looking character whom 
‘he ad met at Richmond. The ludicrous name of “Pickwick” is not # fabriow 
tion of the novella, as many suppove, but Ix also founded on fact.” Tt was ac 
tally borne by the proprietor of a line of stages running between London and 
Bath, and, catching Mr. Dickens's eyo (which was alwayson the watch for any 
{hing queer or out of the way), It was adopted by him as the name of his hero, 
and given to the club, instead of “Nimrod,” which had beon at first proposed. Ia 
the account of the journey to Bath which Mr. Pickwick and his friends take after 
the famons trial Is over, the following allusion to his namesake ocours: — 


‘Me, Tapman and Mr. Snodgrass had seated themselves wt the back part of the coachy 
Mr. Winkle had got inside and Mr, Pickwick was preparing to follow himy when Sam 
‘Weller came up to hie master, and, whispering in his ear, begged to epeak to him, with aa 
aie of the deepest mystery. 

“Well, Sam," sald Mr. Pickwiok, “ what" the matter now?“ 

“ Here "* raythera ram go, slr,” replied Sam, 

© What? “inquired Mr. Pickwick. 

“This here, air," rejoined Sam. “I'm weey much afoered, ste, that the propertatar 0° 
‘his here coach fs «-playin' some imperence vith as." 

“How te that, Sam? "ald Mr. Pickwick: “aren't the names down on the way- 
ene 

“The wanes ts not only down on the vay-bill, sir," replied Bam; “bat they ‘ve 
painted yun on ‘em up on the door o' the coach.” As Samspoke, he potnted to that part 
DM the comebetoct on which the proprietor's name usually appears; and there, sure 
mongh, In gilt letters of « goodly alze, was the magic mame of Proxwien. 

“ Dear mo!” exclaimed Mr, Pickwick, quite staggered by the colncideace, * What & 
very extraordinary thing! "* 

‘Tes Dut that aln’s wll," sald Samm, again directing his master"s attention to the coach: 
oor, “Bot content vith writin’ up * Pickwick,” thay puts* Moses * afore ft, vich Teall 
‘idin’ tatalt to injury, aa the parrot maid ven they not only took him from his native tend, 
‘ut made heim talk the English langwidge arterwards."* 

“It's edd enongh, cortainly, Sam," sald Mr, Pickwick. “ But, if we stand talking here, 
(re shalt lose our places." 

“Wet! aint nothin’ to be done in consequence, sir?" exelalmed Barn, perfoetly aghast 
‘si the coolness with which Mr, Pickeiok prepared to ensconce himself inalde. 

Bonet * eal Mr. Pickwick; “what should bo done?” 

* Acp'e moboly to be whopped for takin’ this here liberty, ir? "sald Mr. Weller, who 
‘sad ox acted thant at least he would have been commissioned to challenge the guant and 
vechasas bo 4 pugiliatic encounter on the spot. 

“Certainly vot.” replied Mr Pickwick eagerly;—not on any account. Jump up 
Pour seat directly." 








20 Ebe Wickens Dictionary. 


‘The final tesue of “The Pickwick Papers” comprising Parts # anc 20, was 
Im October, 187. ‘The complete work was now brought oat te one volume 
‘octavo, and was dedicated by the author to Mr. Serjeant Talfourd. See p. 063. 


CHARACTERS INTRODUCED. 


Allen, Arabella, Sister of Benjamin Allen; afterwards the wife 
of Mr, Winkle. (Ch. xxviii, xxx, xxix, xlvill, lili, liv, Ivi, Iii.) 
Allen, Benjamin. A medical student, and the devoted friend of 
Mr. Bob Sawyer, to whom he purposes marrying his sister Ara 

bella. 

“T designed ‘em for each other; they ware mado for each other, sent into the 
‘world for each other, bora for each other, Winkle,” sald Mr. Ben Allen, vetting 
down his glass with great emphasls. “There's a special destiny tn the matter, 
my dear sir: there °s only five years’ diiferenoe between ‘om, and both thelr 
Dirtb-days are in August.” 


Mr. Allen does not succeed in his project, however, as Mr. 
Winkle, with the assistance of Mr. Pickwick, carries the girl off, 


and marries her without the consent of either her brother or Mr. 
Bob Sawyer. (Ch. xxx, xxxii, xxxviii, xlviii, |, li, lii, liv, lvii.) 
See Sawyer, Bos. 

Ayresleigh, Mr. A prisoner for debt, whom Mr. Pickwick meets 
fn the “coffee-room " at Coleman Street, (Ch, xl.) 

Bagman, The one-eyed. A stout, jovial, middle-aged man with 
a “lonely eye,” whom Mr. Pickwick mects, first at the Peacock 
Inn, Eatanswill, and afterwards at the Bush, in Bristol. He is the 
narrator of “The Bagman's Story,” and of “The Story of the 
Bagman’s Uncle." (Ch. xiv, xlviii, xlix-) See Saar Tom, 

Bamber, Jack. A litile, high-shouldered, keen-eyed old man, 
whom Mr. Pickwick casually meets at the Magpic and Stamp. He 
relates “The Old Man's Tale about a Queer Client.". (Ch. xx.) 

Bantam, Angelo Cyrus, Esq., M.C. A charming young man 
of not much more than fifty, whom Mr. Pickwick meets at Bath- 
friend to Capt. Dowler, and master of ceremonies at the ball which 
Mr. Pickwick 5 

Bardell, Mrs. Martha, Mr, Pickwick’s landlady; 

‘been drawn from a certain Mrs. Ann Ellis, a comely and buxom 
woman of agreeable manners, who kept an eating-house in Knight- 
rider Street, near Doctors’ Commons. Becoming impressed with 





She Pickwick Papers. 21 


‘the Hoa that Mr. Pickwick has offered to marry her, she ts highly 
wheo sho finds herself mistaken. In fact, she insists 
that she is not mistaken, and forthwith brings an action against bin 
for breach of promise. For a full account of this famous trial, and 
its sequel, sce Proxwick, Samost. (Ch. xii, xxvi, xxxiv, xlvi.) 
Master Tommy. The hopeful son of Mra Bardell 
(Ch. xii, xxvi, xlvi) 

Betsey. Servant-girl at Mrs. Raddle’s. (Ch. xxxii.) 

Bladud, Prince. Mythical founder of Bath; hero of the “Tre 
Legend” discovered by Mr. Pickwick. (Ch. xxxvi.) 

Blotton, Mr. (of Aldgate). A member of the Pickwick Club. 
Having been acoused by Mr. Pickwick, at a meeting of the club, of 
acting in “a vile and calumnious manner,” he retorts by calling 
Mr. Pickwick “a humbug ;" but it finally being made to appear 
that they both used the words not in a common, but in a parlia- 
mentary or merely technical or constructive sense, and that each 

entertains the highest regard and esteem for the other, 
the difficulty is readily sottled, and the gentlemen express them: 
selves mutually satisfied with the explanations which have been 
made. [This incident was intended to ridicule a somewhat similar 
‘one which took place in parliament about the time that “ The Pick- 
wick Papers” first appeared.] (Ch. i.) 

Boldwig, Captain. A fierce little man, very consequential ana 
‘imperious; owner of the premises on which Mr. Pickwick and his 
friends trespass while hunting. Mr. Pickwick, having fallen asleep 
cunder the influence of too much cold punch, is left there by the 
‘rest of his party, and is discovered by the captain, who indig- 

orders him to be taken to the pound in a wheelbarrow. 
(Ch. xix.) See Proxwicx, Saunt. 

Bolo, Miss. A fashionable lady at Bath. (Ch. xxxv.) 

Budger, Mrs. A little old widow, with plenty of money; Mr. 
‘Topman’s partner in a quadrille at the charit Ler the Bull Inn, 


Busfuz, Becieant. Mra, Bardens connse 
‘brutal and bullying insolenee to the witnesses on } 


‘said to represent a ce-tain Serjeant Bumpus, a lawyer in Londow 








2 Ehe Pickens Mictfonacy. 
at the time “ The Pickwick Papers” wore written. (Ch. xxxiv.) See 
Picxwrex, Sawont. 

Chancery Prisoner, The. An old man whose acquaintance 
Mr. Pickwick makes in the Fleet, He has been confined there for 
twenty years, but gets his release at Inst from the hands of his 
Maker, and accepts it with smile of quiet satisfuction, (Cb. xlii, 
xliv.) . 

Clergyman, The. One of the guests at Mr, Wanile’s, He sings 
the song of “The Ivy Green,” and relates the story of * The Con- 
vict's Return.” (Ch. vi, xi, xxviii.) 

Clubber, Sir Thomas. A fishionable gentleman at Rochester, 
commissioner at the head of the dock-yard thers. (Ch. ii) 

Clubber, Lady. His wife. (Ch. it) 

Clubbers, The Miss, His daughters, (Ch. ti.) 

Cluppins, Mrs. Betsey. A bosom-friend of Mrs. Bardell’s 
(Ch. xxvi, xxxiv, xlvi.) Sve Prokwick, Samone. 

Craddock, Mrs. Mr. Pickwick's landlady at Bath. (Ch. xxxvi, 
xxxvii.) 

Crookey, An attendant at the sponging-house in Coleman Street. 
(Ch. x1.) 

Crushton, The Honorable Mr. A gentleman whom Mr, Pick- 
wick meets at Bath; a friend of Capt. Dowler’s (Ch. xxxv.) 

Dismal Jemmy. See Hurrey, Jem. 

Dodson and Fogg. Attorneys for Mrs. Bardell. (Ch. xx, 
xxxiy, lili.) See Pickwick, SAMUEL. 

Dowler, Captain. A blustering coward, formerly in the army, 
whom Mr. Pickwick meets at the travellers’ room at the White 
Horse Cellar. (Ch. xxxv, xxxvi, xxxviil.) 


. 


‘The travellers? room at the White Horse Cellar ts . . . divided into boxes for 
he solitary confinement of travellers; and is furnished with a clock, a looking- 
ines, and a live walter, which latter article {s kept in s email kennel for washing, 
#lasses, Iu a corner of the apartment. 

‘One of than boxes was occupied, on this particular occasion, bys stern-eyed 
man of about five-and-forty, who had a bald and glossy forehead, with m good 
deal of black halr wt the sides and buck of his head, and large black whiskers. 
Me was buttoned up to the chin in a brown coat; nnd bad m large seal-slkin trav. 
elling-oap, and a great-coat and cloak, lying on the seat beside him, Ie looked 
up from his breakfast as Mr. Pickwick entered, with a Beree aad peremptory 
air, which was very dignified; and, having scrutinized that gentleman and hie 
companious to his extire satisfaction. hummed a tune in » manner whicd 
‘seemed to say that he rather surpeeted somebody wanted to take the advantage 
shim; but it would n’t do. 

“ Waiter,” sald the gentlomax with the whiskers. 


= 





She Plehwre Papers 23 


“Sir?” replied # man with a dirty complexion, and @ towel 3 the tame, 


‘from the kennel before mentioned, 
“Somer more toast.” 
#: ir” 


“ Direetly, alr,” replied the walter. 

‘The ‘with the whiskers hummed a tune tn the same manner as be 

fore, and, pending the nrrival of the tosst, advanced to the front of the fire, and 
hit coat-tails under his arms, looked at his boots, and ruminated. 

“T wonder whereabouts tn Bath this coach puts up,” said Mr. Pickwick, mild, 
sAdreasing Mr. Winkle. 

“Hom —eh — what's that?” eald the strange man. 

“T made an observation to my friend, air,” replied Mr. Pickwick, always ready 
to enter into conversation. ‘I wondered at what house the Bath coach puts up, 
‘Perhaps you can {nform me.” 

“ Are you going to Bath ?” «uid the strange man, 

ian droped Mr. Pickwick. 

“ 


“Not inside! I’m damned if you 're going inside!” aid the strange man. 

“Not all of us,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“No, not all of you,” eaid the strange man emphatically. “f *ve taken two 
places. If they try to aqueeze six people into an Infernal box that only holds 
four, I 1 take » post-chalve, and bring an actina, Ive paid my fare. Tt won't do: 
‘Ttold the clerk that it wouldnt do. I know these things have been done; I know 
they are done erery day: but I nerer was done, and I never will be. Those who 
‘know me best, best know {t. Crush me!" Here the florce geutlembn rang the 
ell wiih great violence, and told the waiter he \d better bring the tomst in five 
seconds, or he 'd know the reason why. 

™ My dear sir," said Mr, Pickwick, “ you ‘ll allow me to observe that this is a 
ery unnecessary of excitement. I have only taken places inside fortwo.” 

“Tam giad to hear it," sald the feree man. “I withdraw my expressions, I 
tender anapology. There's my card. Give mo your acquaintance.” 

With great pleasure, air)" replied Mr. Pickwick. “ We aro to be follow trav- 
ellers, and I hope we shall find each other's society mutually agreeable.” 

“I Bope we shall,” eaid the flerce gentleman. “I know we shall. I like your 
looks: they please me. Gentlemen, your hands and names. Know mo," 


‘Of course, an intercbange of friendly salutations follows this gra 
‘tious speech; and it is soon found that the second place in the conch 
‘has been taken for none other than the illustrious Mrs, Dowler. 


“Shea fine woman,” sald Mr. Dowler. “Iam proud of her. I have reson.” 

“Thope I shall bare the pleasure of judging," auld Mr. Pickwick, with « emile. 

“You shall,” replied Dowlor. “She shalt know you. She shall esteem you. 
1 courted ber under singular clroumstances, I won her through rash row, 
‘Thus; Ieaw ber; I loved her; 1 proposed; she refused me. * You love another ?? 

‘Spare my blushes, !—I know him.’ —* You do?*—' Very good, if he remains 
bere, Fld kin him" 

© Lod bless ime! exclalmed Mr. Pickwick involuntarily. 

Did you akin the gentleman, sir?” inquired Mr. Winkle with ave-y pale face 
*Lwrote him a note. Tesid it wes a painfi. thing. And so it was™ 


(all \ 





“4 Ede Wickens Wietlonar, 


“Certainly,” Interposed Mtr, Winkle, 

“T sald Thad pledged my word as ® gentleman to skin him. My eharscter 
‘was at stake. Thad wo alternative. As an officer tn hls Majesty" service, Iwas 
bound toukin him, Iregretied the necessity; but It mast be doge. He war 
‘open to conviction, He saw that the rules of the service were imperative 
‘He fled, Tmarried her. Here's the coach. ‘That's her head” 

Dowler, Mrs. Wife of Capt. Dowler. (Ch. xxxv, xxxvi.) 

Dubbley. One of the special officers of the Mayor's Court at Ips 
wich ; a dirty-faced man, over six fect high, and stout in proportion. 
(Ch. xxiv.) See Norxrxs, Gronar. 

Damkins, Mr. A momber of the All-Muggleton Cricket Cluty 
(Ch. vii.) 

Edmunds, John. Hero of the story of * The Convict’s Return ;” 
4 sullen, wilful young man, condemned to death for crime, but, 
by commutation of his sentence, transported for fourteen years. 
A repentant and altered man, le returns to his old home, only to 
find his mother buried, and to see his father die suddenly from the 
“effects of passion and terror, — the same hard-hearted and ferocious 
brate that he had always known him. (Ch. vi.) 

Edmunds, Mr. His father; a morose, dissolute, and savage-hearted 
man, (Ch. vi.) 

Edmunds, Mrs. His mother; a gentle, ill-used, and heart-broken 
woman. (Ch. vi) 

Broma, A servant-girl at Mr. Wanile’s. (Ch. xxviii!) 

Fitz-Marshall, Charles, See Jixcun, Aynep. 

Fizkin, Horatio, Hsq. (of Fizkin Lodge, near Entanswill). A 
candidate for parliament, defeated by the Honorable Samuel Slam 
key. (Ch. xiii.) See Stomxer, Taz Hoxonante Saver. 

Flasher, Wilkins. A stock-broker. (Ch. lv.) 

Fogg, Mr. See Donsox and Foss. 

Goodwin. Servant to Mrs, Pout. (Ch. xviii.) 

Groffin, Thomas. One of the jury in the case of Bardell es, 
Pickwick. He desires to be excused from attendance on the ground 
that he is a chemist, and bas no assistant. (Ch. xxxiv.) 


“1 can't help that, sir,” replied Mr. Justice Stareieigh: “you should hire 
aa 











‘Loan’t afford It, my lord,” nefotned hie chemist. 

“Then you eaght to be able to aiford Ht, er," ext the Jodge, reddening” 
for Mr. Justice Stareleigh’s temper bordered om the irritable, and brocked mot 
contradiction. ... “Swear the gestlemen” ... 

“Very well, my lord," replied the chestist tn a resigned manner. “Ther 
Ubere ll be murder before this trial"s over: that ‘sal. Swear me, if you please 


She Pickwick Papers. 


sir” And sworn the chemist wax before the Judge could fod werde 10 
utter. 

41 merely wanted te observe, my lord,” «ald the chemist, taking his seat 
‘with great detiberation, * that Eve left nobody but an evrand-boy tn my shop. 
‘He bs 2 very aice boy, my lord; but he Is not aequaluted with drags: wnd 1 know 
‘that the prevailing impression cn fix mind is, that Epsom salts mean exalte 
acid; and syrep of senna, laudanum. That's all, my lord.” 

Grub, Gabriel. Hero of Mr. Wardle's “ Story of the Got tins who 
stole a Sexton;” a cross-grained, surly, solitary fellow, who is made 
good-natured and contented by his remarkable experiences on 
Christmas Eve. (Ch. xxix.) 

Grummer, Daniel. A constable in attendance upon the Mayor's 
Court at Ipswich, (Ch. xxiv, xxv.) See Norxivs, Groror. 

Grundy, Mr. A friend of Mr. Lowten’s, and a frequenter of the 
Magpie and Stamp Inn. (Ch. xx.) 

Gunter, Mr, A friend of Mr. Bob Sawyer’s. (Ch. xxxii.) 

Gwynn, Miss. Writing and ciphering governess at Westgate 
House Eetablishmont for Young Ladics, at Bury St. Edmunds. 
(Ch. xvi.) 

Harris. Agreen-grocer. (Ch, xxxviil.) 

Henry. A character in “The Parish Clerk;" cousin to Maria 
Lobbs, whom he finally marries. (Cb. xvil.) 

Beyling, George. Hero of “The Old Man's Tale about a 

* Queer Client."" He is a prisoner for debt inthe Marshalsea. Dur- 
ing his confinement, his little boy is taken sick and dies; and his 
wife, who thereupon shares her husband's lot, soon follows, sinking 
uncomplainingly under the combined effects of bodily and mental 
illness. Released from prison by the sudden death of his father, a 
‘yery wealthy man who had disowned him, and had meant to disin- 
herlt bim, he devotes himself unremittingly to avenge the death of 
his wife and child upon his wifo’s father, who had cast him into 
prison, and had spurned daughter and grandchild from his door 
wher, they sued at his fect for mercy. In this schemeof vengeance 
he is successful, suffering the old man’s boy to drown before his 
eyes, though he might easily have saved him, and afterwards pur 
Suing the father until he reduces him to utter destitution. He 
intends to consign him to the hopeless imprisonment which he had 
himself 20 long endured, but, on annot \¢ his purpose, i 
Gills lifeless, and Hoyling disappears, leaving no clew to his subse 

_ quent history. (Ch. xxi) 
Beyling, Mary. His wife. (Ch. xxi) 
3 








6 Ede Wickens Wietlonary. 


Hopkins, Jack, A medical student, whom Mr. Pickwick necta 
at Mr, Bob Sawyer’s party. (Ch. xxxii.) 


“I hope that ’ Jack Hopkins," easd Mr. Bob Sawyer, “ Hush} Yea: 


ton, ‘and a blae atriped shirt with a white false collar. 

You ‘re inte, Jack,” said Mr. Benjamin Allen. 

“Been detained nt Bartholomew's,” replied Hopkins. 

“Any thing new 7” 

“No: nothing particular. Rather a good aceldent brought tnto tho ens: 
alty ward.” 


“What was that, alr?” inqutred Mr. Pickwick. 

“Only a man fallen out of a fourpairofatalra window; but it "sa very 
fair case, —very fair cave, Indeed.” 

“Do you mean that the patient is in a fulr way to recover?” inquired Mr 


“No,” replied Hopkins carelessly. ‘No, I should rather nay he would 2". 
‘There must be a splendid operation though, tomorrow,— magnificent sight 


“ You consider Mr. Slasher a good operator?” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“Beat alive!” repilied Hopkins. “Took a boy’s leg out of the socket last week, 
—boy ate five apples and a gingerbread-cake. Exactly two minutes after it 
‘was all over, boy sald he would n’t lie there to be made game of; and he 'd tell 
his mother if they did n't begin. 

“Dear me!” raid Mr, Pickwick, sstonished. 

“Pooh! that’s nothing, —that ala’t," aaid Jack Hopkins. “Is it, Bob?” 

“Nouhing at all,” replied Mr. Bob Sawyer. 

“By the by, Bob," sxld Hopkins, with a scarcely perceptible glance at Mr. 
Pickwick’s attentive fico,“ we had # curious accident last night. A child 
‘was brought in who had ewallowed a necklace." 

“Swallowed what, sir?” toterrupted Mr. Pickwick. 

“A necklace,” replied Jack Hopkins. “Not all at once: you know that 
would be too much. You could n't swallow that, if the child did,—eb, Mr, Pick- 
wiok? Ha, bat" Mr. Hopkins appeared highly gratitied with his own pleas 
‘antry,and continued, “No, the way was this: child’s parents were poor peo 
ple who lived In # court. Child's eldest sister bought # neckince,—eommon 
necklace, made of large black wooden beads. Child, being foad of toys, eribbea 
the necklace, hid it, played with ft, cut the string, and swallowed a bead, 
Child thought It capital fun; went back next day, and swallowed another bead.” 

“Blew my heart,” said Mr. Pickwick, “what a dreadful thing! 1 beg 
your pardon, slr. Goon.” 

Next day, child swallowed two beads; the day after that, he treated him 
self to three; and so on, till in a week’s time he had got through the necklace, — 
five-and-twenty beads In all. ‘The sister, who was an industrious girl, and eel- 
dom treated herself to bit of finery, cried her eyes out at the loss of the 
necklace; looked high and 1 +w for it; but, I need wit say, didn’t find {t. A few 
days after, the fumnlly were at dinner: the child, who was n't hungry, was play 
tng about the room, when suddenly there was heard a devil of a noise, Ifke = 
small ball-etorm. ‘Don’t do that, my boy,'sald the father. ‘1 aln’t a-doln 
‘sothin',’ said the child. ‘Well, don’t do it agatn,'sald the father, ‘There wase 








The Pichwien Papers. a 


skort silence, and then the noite began sgain worse than ever. If you don” 
mind what I say, my boy,' said the father, ‘ you "ll find yourself in bed in some 
‘less than s pig's whisper.’ He gave the child a shake to make hira obe 
dient; amd och m rattling ensued ax nobody ever heard before. ‘ Why,dumme 
t's tn the childt? sald the father. ‘Jes got the croup in the wrong place! 
‘No, I haven't, father! said the child, beginning to cry. ‘It's the neck 
Jace: Eawailowed it, futher.’ The father caught the child up, and ran with his 
‘4othe horpltal; the beads tn the boy’s stomach rattling all (ve way with the jolt: 
Ang, and the people looking up in the air, and down in the cellars, to see where 
the uuusual sound came from. He's in the hospital now,” sald Jack Hopkins: 
“and he makes such a devil of a nolse when he walks about, that they ‘re 
obliged tomuftle him in m watchman's coat, for fear he should wake the pw 
tents.” 


Humm, Anthony. Chairman of the Brick Lane Branch of the 
United Grand Junction Ebenezer Temperance Association. (Ch. 
xxxili) See Wetter, Samvet. 

Hunt. Gardener to Captain Boldwig. (Ch. xix.) 

Hunter, Mrs. Leo. A literary lady whom Mr. Pickwick meets 
at Eatanswill. (Ch xv.) One morning, Sam Weller bands Mr, 
Pickwick « card bearing the following inscription: — 


firs, Leo Munte 
The Den, Eatannsill 


Person's s-waltin’,” said Sam epigrammatically. 

Does the person want me, Sam?” inquired Mr, Pickwick. 

“Ie wants you partickler; and no one elso "ll do, ns tho Devil"s petrate see 
retary said ven he fetched avay Dr. Faustus,” replied Mr. Weller. 

“He? Tnitagontloman?” said Mr. Pickwick, 

© A werry good imitation o’ ono, if it ain't," replied Mr. Weller. 

“But this ls o lady's card,” waid Mr. Pickwick. 

* Given me by a gen'lm'n, hows'erer,” replied Sam; “ and he %* n-waltin’ tu 
the drawing-room — sald he ’d rather walt all day t 

Mr. Pickwick, on hearing this determination, descended to the drawing 
room, where sat mee et who started up on his entranes, and | 


“Allow mes sir, the honor of grasping your hand —permlt me, sir, to shake 

Mey" sad tho grave man. 
“Certainly,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“The 

“Weave heard of your fume. sir. ‘The 
sion has reac‘red the cars of Mrs. Leo Hunter. —w 
‘Hunter” The stranger paused, as if he expeced that Mr. Pickwick would be 
‘overoome by the disclosure; bus »eing that he remained perfectly calm, pro 








B Ebe Dickens Bietlonacy. 


“ My wife, str,— Mrs. Leo Hunter,—ts proud to notaber among her aoquatnt 
ance all those who here rendered themselves celebrated by thelr works and 
talents. Permitme, sir, to place in a conspicuous part of the list the name of Mr. 
Pickwick. and his brother-members of the elub that derives ftx name from him.” 

“I shall be extremely bappy to make the nequaintance of auch w lady. #tr,* 
replied Sr. Pickwick. 

“You shall make It, slr," sald the grave man. “To-morrow morning, slr, we 


‘Haater, sir to have the gratification of seeing you at the Den,” 
With grent pleasure,” replied Mr. Pie*-~tek. 
“Mrs. Leo Hunter has many of thes. oreskfuts, slr,” resumed the new ae 





‘8 sounct to Mrs. Leo Hunter on her breakfasts, feelingly and originally observed.” 

“Was he celebrated for his works and talents?” inquired Mr. Plokwiok. 

Tio was, tr," replied the grave man. All Mrs, Leo Hunter aequalntanes 
are: it is her ambition, sir, to have no other acquaintance.” 

“itis a very noble ambition," anid Mr. Pickwick. 

“When T Inform Mra. Leo Hunter, that that rerhark fell from your lipt, tlt, 
‘she will indeed be proud,” said the grave man. “You have # gentleman In your 
train who has produced some beautiful little pooms, I think, sir.” 

“My friend Mr. Snodgrass hos m great taste for pootry,” replied Mr. Pick 
wick. 

“So has Mrs. Leo Hunter, slr, She doats on poctry, sir. She adores it; {may 
say that ber whols souland mind are wound up nnd Intwined with It, She has 
produced some delightful pieces herself, sir. You may have met with her ‘Ode to 
‘s Expiring Frog,’ str.” 

“T don't think I have,” aaid Mr, Pickwick. 

“You astonish mn, air," sald Mr, Leo Hunter, ‘Xt created an tmmense sensm 
tion, It was signed with an‘ "and eight stars, and appeared originally in « 
Lady's Magaxive. It commenced :— 


“Can I view theo panting, tying 
‘On thy stomach, without sighing} 
Gan F unmoved seo thee dying 


 Besutifult” sald Mr. Pickwick. 
“Pine,” sald Mr. Leo Hunter; ‘so simple!* 

“Very,” sald Mr, Pickwick. 

“The next verse is still more touching. Shall I repest tt?” 
“If you please,” said Mr, Pickwick, 

“Tt runs thus,” eald tho grave man till more gravely: — 


“* day, havo flonds tn shape of boys, 
‘With wild ballon snd bratal nous, 
Hunted thee from marshy Joys, 
‘With a dog, 
‘Expiring frog?’ 


~ Finely expressed,” sald Mr. Plokwick. 
“All point, sir, all point,” said Mr. Leo Hunter; “bat you shall hear Mre, Las 
‘Wanter repent it. She can do Justice to it, alr” 


She Pickwick Papers. 29 


‘Bunter, Mr. Leo. Mrs. Leo Hunter’s husband (Ch. av.) 

Hutley, Jom, called “Diaat Jewxy." An itinerant actor, who 
“dous the heavy business;” brother to Job Trotter, and friewl ot 
‘Mr. Alfr:d Jingle, who introduces him to Mr. Pickwick. He 
relates to them “The Strollers Tale,” in which he himself figures. 
(Ch. iii, v.) See Jomx, 

Tsaac. A friend of Mr. Jackson's. (Cb. xlvi.) 

Jackson, Mr. A clork in the office of Dodson and Fogg. (Ch 
Xxx, xxxi, xlvi.) 

Jemmy, Dismal. See Hutter, Jem. 

Jingle, Alfred. An impudent strolling actor, who palms himself 
off on Mr. Pickwick and his travelling-companions of the club as a 
gentleman of consequence, sponges good dinners and borrows moncy 
‘from them, and finally gets into the Flect prison, where, some time 
‘afterwards, Mr. Pickwick finds him in great destitution and dis 
freas, and benevolently pays his debts and releases him, on satis 
factory evidence of penitence, and on promise of reformation, which 
is faithfully kept. Mr. Jingle is a very loquacious person, talking 
incessantly; rarely speaking a connected sentence, however, but 
stringing together mere disjointed phrases, generally without verbs. 
‘He firet meets Mr. Pickwick and his party at the coxch-stand in 
Saint Martin’eJe-Grand. 

“Heads, heads; take care of your heads!" erled the loquacious stranger, ax 
they came out under the low archway, which in those dass formed the entrance 
to the couch-yard. “Terrible place — dangerous work —other 
dren —mother—tall lady, eating sandwiches — forgot the areh —erash — knock 
=stildren look round — mother's hend off — sandwich in her band—no mouth 
to pat It in—head of a family off shocking, shocking! Look 

heat off there, eh, sie?—he 


‘swivestiop —wrote it down — back again — whi, 
” 








Fite VAT ROY. 





Che Dickens Wictionarp 


jae porte nell Nile — tenets — ext and — 
ira abr rig wr ae aaa ae ato 


Fm tne at Do, air?” 
oKejan am “ld Mr, Winkle, 


tll] ened him — Ponto, Ponto — would n't move — dog transiixed — staring at 
® beard —lowked up, aw au Laveription—* Gamekeeper has orders to aboot af 
dogs fund th thls entlowre’— would n't pass it —wonderfsl dog —valaabie 
dog that — very” 

© Ringular elreumetance that,” sald Mr, Pickwick. “WI you allow me te 
naive a note of 187" 

" Oartabnly, sf, eertuiily —Iundred more anecdotes of the same axtial. — 
Wino gir, +e” (to Mr. ‘Trsey Tupran, who had been bestowing sundry anti 
Piekwteklan glamor on a young Indy by the rond-xide), 

© Vary 1 wild Mr, 

‘“Hingileh girlie not 90 flue ae Spaulsh — noble creatures — jet hair —bisck 
yee lovely Forms — rweet crentures — beautiful” 

“You have bewn tn Aged ARTY call Mir: Tindy Tapa. 

“Lived there = 

© Many conquests, af?” inquired Me. Tupmaa. 

“ Cunquesta! Thousands, Don Bolaro Fiasgig — Grandeo — only daughter 
= Downs Cheletlin— splendid creature loved me to distraction — jealous 
father — high-oulod daughter — handsome Englishtan— Donna Christina ta 
deapule—prisaio acd —stomach-pimp in my portmanteau — operation per 
formed —old Bolaro tn eestasies —consent to our union Jain hands and floods 
of tour — romantic #tary — very. 

“Ue the lady in Bngiand now, sir?” inquired Mr. Tupman, on whom thi 
reription of her chartos hat produeed a powerful impression. 

© Dead, slr-— dead,” eald the atraager,, Seer ne eR EE oe 

handkerchief. 


“And her fathor 7" Inquired the poetic Snodgrass. 

“ Retnorse aud misery,” replied the stranger. “Sudden disappearance — talk 
of the whole city —search maile everywhere — without success —pablic foun- 
‘ali kn the great equare rnddenly erased plartng — weeks elapsed — still a stop 
page — workmen employed to clean tt — water drawn off — futherin-law discov: 
ered nicking head frst in the main pips, with a full confession En hls right boot 
= took lili eat and the foutatn played away again as well as ever.” 

“WH you allow me to mote that tthe romance down, sir?” said Mr. snod 
renee, deeply Arete, ; 

© Cortalaly, sin, certainly, — fifty toore if yoa Mike to hear was — strange tite 
Tike — rater curtous history — not extraordinary, bat singular.” 

(Ob, ti, iii, vii—x, xv, axxy, ell, sly, xlvil, HL) See Workin, 


Navnanren. 
Dinka, Mr, A palo, sharp-nosed, halffed, shabbily<lad clerk of 
the Mayor's Oourt at Ipswich. (Ch. xxiv, xxv) See Norxrxa 


Grorax, 

















THE FAT BOY. 








Ede Plekwick Papers. 31 


Jinkins, Mr, A character in “The Bagman’s Story ;” a raseally 
adventurer with a wife and six babes, — all of them small ones, — 
who tries to marry & baxom widow, the landlady of a roadside inn, 
bat is provented by Tom Smart, who marries her himself, (Cb. xiv.) 

Joo, the Fat Boy. Servant to Mr. Wardle; a youth of astonish 

‘obesity and voracity, who has a way of going to sleep on the 

provocation, and in all sorts of places and attitudes. Mr 

Wardle, having met Mr, Pickwick and his friends at « grand review 
at Rochester, invites them into his carriage for a lunch, 


Joe, Joe.” sald the stout gentleman, when the citadel was taken, and the 

and besdeged eat down to dinner. “Damn that boy! be" gone te 

a eat sine epi, — nfo og, I yom planes, 
wakes lim. Thank you! Undo the hamper, Joo.” 

tue tt boy, who had been effectually roused by the compression of = por- 
tion of is leg between the finger and thumb of Mr. Winkle, rolled of the box 
ouce agai, and proceeded to unpack the hamper, with more expedition than 
could ave been expected from his previous inactlvity, 

“Now, we must elt close,” said the stout gentleman, After # great many 
‘Jokes about squcezing the Indies" sleeves, and a vast quantity of blushing at 
sasdry Jocose proposals that the Indies should sit In the gentlemen’s laps, the 
‘whole party were stowed down inthe barouche; and the stout gentleman pro- 
eveded to hand the things from the fat boy (who bad mounted up behind for 
‘the purpore) {nto the carringe, 

“Now, Joe, knives and forks!" The knives and forks were handed in; and 
the ladies and gentlemen Inside, and Mr. Winkle on the box, were each firnlabed 
‘with thowe ueeful Implements, 

“Plates, Joe, plates!” A similar process employed in the distribution of 


crockery. 

“Now, Joe, the fowls, —Damn that boy! he’s gone to sleep again. Joe, 
4e1 (Sundry taps ou the head with a stick, and the fat boy, with some disii+ 
‘cally, roused from hls lethargy.) “Come, hand In the eatables.” 

‘There wns something in the sound of the last word, which roused the unctu- 
‘car boy. He Jumpedup; and the leaden eyes, which twinkled bind his mouw 
talnows checks, leered horribly upon the food as he unpacked It from the 





“Now, make haste,” sald Mr. Wardle; for the fut boy wns banging fondly 
Saco nets, which he seemed wholly unable to part with. The boy alghed 
‘Seeply, and, bestowing an ardent gaze upon its plumpuess, unwillingly consigned 
it to his master. 


(Ch. iv ~ix, xxviii, liv, Ivi.) 


John. A low pantomime actor, and an habitual drunkard, whose 
oath is deseribed in “ The stroller’s Tale,” related to Mr. Pick- 
Wick and his friends by Mr Hutley. (Ch. iii.) 

ate, A character in the story of “The Parish Clerk ;" cousin to 

Maria Lobbs. (Ch. xvii.) 

Lobbs, Maria. A chiwacter in Mr. Pickwick’s story of “The Par 


— 








4 Ede Dickens Diettonaep. 


ish Clerk ;” s pretty girl, beloved by Nathaniel Pipkio, and alée 


~ (Ch, xx, xxi, xxxi, xxxtv, xl, xlvil, lili, liv.) ri 
Lucas, Solomon. A costumer. (Ch. xv.) 

Luffey, Mr. Vice-president of the Dingley Dell Cricket Club. 
(Cb. vii.) 

Magnus, Peter. A red-haired man, with an inquisitive nose and 
blue spectacles, who is a fellow-traveller with Mr. Pickwick from 
Lendon to Ipswich. The two gentlemen chat cosily on the road, 
and dine together on their arrival at “The Great White Horse” 
inn. Mr. Magnus, being naturally of a very communicative dispo~ 
tition, and made more so by the brandy and water he drinks, eonfi- 
dentially informs Mr. Pickwick that be has come down to Ipswich 
to propose to a certain lady who is even then in the same house. 
‘The next morning at broakfhst he recurs to the same subject, and 
the following conversation takes place : — 


“1 beg your pardon, Mr. Pickwick; but have you ever done this sort of thing 
in your the?" said Mr, Magnus, 

“You mean proposing?” sald Mr. Pickwick. 

“Yeu.” 

4 Never!” said Mr. Pickwick with great energy, —"‘never!” 

“You have no idea, then, how It best to begin?" aad Mr. Magnus, 

Why," sald Mr. Pickwick, “1 may hare formed some ideas upon the sub- 
fect; but, as I hare never submitted them to the test of experience, I should be 
sorry if you were Induced to regulate your proceedings by them” 

“I should feel very much obliged to you for any advice,” sald Mr, Magna, 
talking another look nt the clock, the hand of which was verging on the Ave min 
tutes past. 

“Well, sir," sald Mr. Pickwick, with the profound solemnity with which 
vhat great man could, when he pleased, render his remarks so deeply impres- 
siva, *Tahould conamence, sir, with a tribute to the lady's beauty aud excollent 
qualities; trom them, sir, I #hould diverge to my own unworthiness,” 

* Very good," anid Mr. Magnus. 

“Unworthiness for her only, mind, alr," resumed Mr. Plokwick; ‘for te 
show that I was not wholly unworthy, sx, I should take @ brief review of my 
past {if and present condition. I should argue, by analogy, that, to anybody 
lsc, K must be a very desirable object. I should then expatiate on the waraith 
of my love and the depth of my devotion. Herbaps I might then be tempted te 
seize her hand.” 

“Yes, L see,” eald Mr. Magous: * that would be a very great pont.” 

“ I ehould then, sir,” continued Mr, Pickwick, growing warmer as the subject 
presented {tself in more giowing colors before him,—*' T should then, air, come 








0 tho plain and simple question, ‘Will you have me?? T think I am Justified 
‘te assuining, that, upon this, she would turn away ber head.” 

* You think that maybe taken for granted?” said Mr. Magnna; “becanse, if 
“she did not do that at the right place, 1t would be embarrassing, 

“TD think she would,” said Mr, Pickwick. “Upon this, air, T ahould squeeze 
eerhand, and f think, —-I¢hink, Mr. Maguus,—thatafter J had doue that, euppos 
ing there was no refusal, I should gently draw away tho hndkerehief. which my 
‘Aight knowledge of human wature leads me to suppose the Lady would! bo applying 
to her eyes at the moment, and steal a respectful kiss. I think 1 should kiss her, 
‘Mr. Magons; and, af this particular polat. Tam decidedly of opinion, that. if the 
acy wero poling to take me at ail, she would wurmur into my ear a bashful accapt- 


— 

Dr. Magnus atarted, parod on Mr, Piekwick’s ltelligent face for  sbort time 
tn silence, and theu (the diat pointing to the ten minutes past) shook him warmly 
‘by the hand, and rushed desperately from the room. 

Mr. Pickwick had taken  fow steides to and fro; and the small band of the 
‘het. following the latter part of his example, had arrived at the figure which 
indicates the haifhour, when the door suddenly opened. He tarned round to 
greet Mr. Peter Magnus, and euconntorod, in his xtead, the Joyous face of Mr. 
‘Tupmas, the rerene countensnoe of Mr; Winkle, and the intellectual lineaments 


of Mr. Snodgrass. 
As Mr. Pickwick greeted them, Mr. Peter Magnus tripped into the room. 
eee enema res ting Mr Magnus,"—said 2€r. Pick- 


“Your servant, gentlemen,” yald Mr: Magnus, evidently In @ high atate of 
‘excitement. "Mr. Viekwick, allow me to speak to you, one moment, sir.” 
As ho said this, Mr. Magaus harnessed his foretinger to Mr. Mokwick’s button- 
ole, aud, drawing bm into a window-recess, aid.— 
‘me, Mr, Pickwiek: I followed your advice to the very letter.” 
And St was all correct, was {t?” inquired Mr. Iickwiok. 
“Tt was, #tr, — could not possibly have been better," replied Mr. Magnus. “ Mr, 
hee, he a witne |” 
“Leougratulate you with sil my heart," replied Mr. Pickwick, warmly shaking 
hisnew fend by the hand. 
“You must wee her, se,” sald Mr. Magnus: “this way, if you please, Excase 
for ove Instant, gentlemen.” And, hurrying on in this way. Mr. Peter Magnus 
ote limaa He paused at the next door in the passage, 
gently thereat. 
sera Ia ald fomaie voles. And in they went, 


Now, it has unfortunately happened that Mr. Pickwick, on tho 
aight of their arrival, had occasion to leave his room to get his watch, 
‘which he had left on a table down stairs, Returning in the dark, 
fost his way, and gropod about in search of his room for a long time, 


Adozentimesdid be softy turn the handle of some bedroot-door whlch reser. 
Died kit ows, when a gruffers from witms, of W 
Yea want here?” caused him to steal away, on tiptoe, with a -perftetly ms ‘mary 
felerity. He was reduced to the vorge of despair, when un open di 
attention. He peeptd in—rightat last! Thore were the two 
m he perfectly remembered, and the fire atill burning. His can: 
Jone when Le first reoelved tt, had flicke-ed away tn the dranghts of 








uu She Mickens Mictlonary. 


‘hich he had passed, and sunk tntothe socket jast ax he closed the door after bim_ 
et es ee eee 

‘The bedsteads stood one on each side of the door; and on the inner side of 
tach was alittle path, terminating in a rash-bottomed chalr, Just wide enough to 
sdmit of u person's getting Into or out of bed on that side, if he or she thought 
proper. Having carefully drawn the curtains of his bed on the outslde, Mr. Pick. 
wick sat down on the rush-bottomed chair, and leisurely divested himself of hie 
shoes and gniters. Me then took off nnd folded up his cont, walstooat, and neck: 

nightcap, 


wick Inughed to himself so heartily, that {t would have been quite 
any asa of trll-qrnttated mid to hare wecdhed the sulle Wok eeyended he 
‘amiable features as they shone forth from beneat: the night-cap. 

“It Is the best {dea,” sald Mr. Pickwick to himself. smiling till be almost erncked 

ee tho best des, my Joning myself fa this place, and 

those statreases, that I ever heard of. Droll, droll, very droll!” 
Here Mr Pld sed aga x broader smile than before, and was about to 
eontinue the process of undrevaing, in the bert possible humor. when he was sud 
denly stopped by & most unexpected interruption; to wit, the entrance Into the 
room of some person with a candle, who, after locking the door, advanced to the 
drewsing-table, and sot down the Nght upon It, 

‘The smile that played on Mr. Pickwick’s features was instantaneously fost in 
‘look of the moat unbounded and wonder-stricken surprise. ‘The person, who 
‘ver it wns, bad come tn sosuddenly, and with #0 little nolee, that Mr. Pickwick 
‘had no time to call out, or oppose their entrance. Who could it be? A robber! 
Some crit minded person who had seen iim come up stairs with « handsome wateh 
in his band, perhaps. What was heto dot 

‘The only way in which Mr. Pickwick could catch a glimpse of his mysterious 
visitor, with the least danger of being eeen himself. was by creeping on to the bed. 
‘and peoping out from botween the curtains on the opposite side. ‘To thls manmuyre 
he accordingly resorted. Keeping the curtains carefully closed with his hands, 50 
that nothing more of him could be agen than hia face and wight-cap, and putting 
‘on his spectacien, be mustered up courage and looked out. 

Mr. Pickwick almost fulnted with horror snd dismay, Standing before the 
Mrevalng-glass was a middle-aged lady in yellow curl-papers, busily engaged in 
brashing what ladies call thelr~ back hair." However the uneonselous ta 
tady came into that room, it was quite clear that she contemplated remaining there 
for the night; for she had brought a rushlight and shade with her, which, with 
praiseworthy precaution against fire, she had stationed in a basin on the floor, 
where It was glimmering away, like # gigantlo lighthouse in « particularly small 

Tece of water. 

* Tless my soul,” thought Mr. Pickwick, “what a dreadful thing!” 

“Hem!” eaid the old Indy; and in went Mr, Viokwiok’s head with sutomaten: 
like rapidity. 

“1 never met with any thing #0 awful ws this!" thought poor Mr. Pickwick 
the cold perspiration starting in drops upon his night-oap,—“ never! Thia ts 
earful” 

It was quite impossible to resist the urgent dire 10 see what was geing for 
ward. So out went Mr. Pickwick’s head ogain, ‘The prospect was worse thay 


f 


—- _s 














¢ Plekwlch Papers cd : = =i 


‘before. ‘The miditie-aged lady hod finished arranging her hair, and earefatly envel 
| Sa ee emersae eee wen neal pind border sal wes gatogpemstrty 


‘This matter Is growlag alarming,” reasoned Mr. Pickwick with himself. 

| ‘“Lean't allow things to go on in this way. Dy the self-possession of that Indy, 
‘it's clear to me that I must have come into the wrong room. If I call out, she "IL 
alarm te house; but, if I remain here, the consequence will be still more frightful.” 

‘Mr. Pickwick, it {4 quite unnecessary to aay, was one of the most modest and 
deticnte-minded of mortals. The very ides of exhibiting his night-cap to = lady 
orerpowered hin; but he had tied these coufonusded strings tn knot, and, do what 

‘be would, he could n't get it off, The disclosure must be made, There was only 

gue other way of doing it. He shrunk behind the curtains, and called out very 


Ata, bors!" 
Sear nes edn senpeehad coved wae rite by her falling ap 
against the rushlight-shade: that she persuaded herself tt must have been the 
‘effect of imagination was equally clear: for when Mr. Pickwick, under the impres- 
idem that abe had fainted away, stone-dead.frot fright, ventured to peep outagain, 
she was gazing ponsively om the fire ax before. 
“Most extrnordinary female this!" thought Mr. Pickwick, popping in again. 
“Ha, bent” 
‘These hast rounds, vo like thove In which, ws legends Inform us, the ferocious 
Gant Blanderbore was in the habit of expressing his opinion that it was time to 
lag the cloth, were too diatincdly audible to be again mistaken for the workings of 


taney. 
* Gracious Hearent " eaid the middle-aged lady, “ what '» that?" 
| “It's —{t 's—only a gentleman, ma’am,” sald Mr. Pickwick from behind the 


© A gentleman!” sald the Indy with a terrific scream, 

“It's all over,” thonght Mr. Pickwick. 

+ A strange man!” shricked the lady. Another Instant, and the house would be 
alarmed. Her garments rusiced as she rashed towards the door. 

“Malem,” said Mr. Piok-rick, throsting out his head, in the extremity of nis 

—"ma'em . 

‘Now, although Mr. ickwivk was not actunted by any definite object In putting 
‘pat his ead, it was Instautancously productive of a good effect. The lady, as we 
‘ave already stated, was near the door. She must pass it to reach the staircase, 
sand she would most undoubtedly have done so by this time, had not the audden 
eypspeieed Plokwick’s nightesp driven her back Into the remotest corver 

of the apartment, where shestood star ng wildly at Mr. Pickwick, while Mr. Piek- 
wok. in bis turn, stared wildly at he 

‘SWreteht” anid the Indy, covering her eyes with her hands,“ what do you 
‘went here?” 

‘Nothing, ma'am, —nothing whaterer, ma'am," said Mr. Pickwick earnestly. 

4 Nothing! ® eaid the lady, looking up, 

“Nothing, ma'am, upon my honor,” sald Mr. Pickwick, nodding his head #0 

that the tassel of ale night-cap danced again, “1 am almost 

ready to sink, ma’am, beneath the confusion of addressing a indy In my night-cap 
*here the lady hastily enar-hed off hers); but I can’t got it off, ma’am (here Mr. 
Pickwick gave ita tremendous tag in proof of the statement). Its evident tome, 
‘ewan, now, that I have mistakes this bearoom for my own. 1 had not beew 
‘ere Gre minutes, ma'am, when you suddenly entered tt.” 























— = 


” 





36 Ebe Dickens Mictronary. 


“ Ufthle improbable story be really true, eir,” sald the Indy, sobbing rlolently. 
“you will leave it instantly” 

“1 will, ma’atn, with the greatest pleasure,” replied Mr, Pickwick. 

“Instantly, str," rald the Indy. 

po reratscillved errant sole amy aes ae aber eet 
very sorry. ma'am,” aid Mr. Pickwick, making his appearanoe at the 
Iatsbni ec to0 RAL To fore Bees Eis broad venient da alte wo ention, 
= deeply sorry, ma’am.” 

‘The lady polnted to the door, One excellent quality of Mr. Pickwiek's ebar 
Star won enact. ior ot ln mimes nt havea tring rece 
‘Mances. Although he had hastily put on his hat over his nighteap, ater 
tmanoer of the old patrol; although he carried bie shows and galters in his tend, 
‘sod his cont and waistcoat over his arm, —nothing could subdue his native polite: 
Bess. 











xin exceedingly sorry, ma'am,” sald Mr, Pickwick, bowing very tow. 

“If you are. sir, you will at once leave the room,” said the Indy. 

“Immediately, malum,—this fnstant, maam," aid Mr. Pickwick, opening 
the door, and dropping bot his shoes with a loud crash In so doing, 

trust, mo’am," resumed Mfr. Pickwick, gathering up his shoes, and turning 
round to bow again, —“ trust, ma'am, that my anblemished character, and the 
devoted respect I entertain for your sex, will plend as some slight excuse for 
thie” — But, before Mr. Pickwick could conelnde the senteuce, the lady had thrust 
him Into the passage, and locked and bolted the door bebind him, 


Mr, Pickwick finally encounters Sam Weller, his valet, who leads 
him to his room; bui this night-adventure disturbs him considerably. 
The remembrance of it wears away, however, and, at the moment of 
being introduced by Mr. Magnus to his betrothed, the occurrence is 
not in his mind at all. 


“Mies Withertield," suid Mr. Magnus, “allow me to introduce my very par- 
Weular frend, Mr. Pickwick. Mr. Pickwick, I bog to make you known to Miss 
Witherfietd." 

‘Tho Indy was at the npper end of the room; and, as Mr. Pickwick bowed, he 
took his spectacles from his waisteont-pocket, and put them on, —a process which 
se had no sooner gone through. than, uttering an wxclamation of turprine. Mr, 
Pickwick retreated several paces, and the indy, with a half-suppreased scream, hid 
her face in her hands. and dropped Into. chalr; whereupon Mr. Peter Magnus 
was struck motionless on the xpot, and gazed from one to the other with # eoun- 
_ananoe expressive of the extremities of horror aind surprise. 

‘This certainty was. to all appearance, very unaccountable bebasior: bat the 

ract was, that Mr. Pickwick no sooner put on his spectacles than be at once ree 
ognized in the future Mrs. Magnus the Indy Into whose room he had #0 unwar- 
rantably Intraded on the prerlous ni ‘nd the spectacles had no sooner crossed 
Mr. Wickwick’s nose thon the Indy at once Identified the countenance which she 
bad seen surrounded by all the horrors of a nighteap. So the lady screamed, and 
Mr. Plekerick started, 
Mr, Mokwick!" exclaimed Mr. Magnus, lost In sstonlehinent, “what ie the 
meaning of thir. sir? What ls the meaning of it, sir?” added Mr. Magnus, in « 
Shreatening and # louder tane. 

“lr,” sald Sr. Pickwick, somewhat indignant at the very sudden manner |y 























She Pickwick Papers. a 


which Mr. Peter Magnus had conjagated himself Into the imperative mood, 
1 dectine answering that question.” 
You decline it air? antd Mr. Stagnns, 
“To. air, replied Me. Pickwick, “Y object to saying any (hing which may 
thi Indy, or awenken unplensant recollections in her breast, with 
out he: consent and permission.” 


Miss Withertield,” sald Mr. Peter Mngous, do you know this person?” 
“ Know him!™ repeated the middle-aged lady, hesitating, 
“Yes, know him, mavam. Tanid know him,” replied Mr. Magnus with fere 





“T hare seen him" replied the middle-aged Indy. 
“Where?” inquired Mr. Magnus, —“ where?” 
= That," raid the middieaged Indy, rising from her seat, and averting her 
heed, —"' that I would not reveal for worlds.” 
“T understand you, ma‘am," #nid Mr. Pickwick, “and respect your delicacy. 
| Bahall never be revealed by me, depend upon it." 


‘This, of course, makes Mr. Magnus very angry; and ho proceeds 
to work himself into a red-hot, scorching, consuming passion, and 
indulges freely in threats of n duel. Miss Witherfield, however, 
eontrives to settle matters by informing the mayor that Mr. Pick- 
wick is about to fight a duel, in which Mr. Tupman proposes to act 
as his second, and that the other party has absconded. The sequel 
fs, that Mr. Pickwick and Mr. Tupman are arrested, and taken 
before the mayor. For proceedings at the trial see Nurkrs, 
Groner. (Ch. xxii, xxiv.) 

Mallard, Mr. Clerk toMr. Serjeant Snubbin. (Ch. xxi, xxiv.) 

Martin, Mr. A prisoncr confined in the Flect prison. (Ch. xlit) 

Martin. Aconchman. (Ch. x! 

Martin. A gamekeeper. (Ch. xix.) 

Martin, Jack, Hero of “The Story of the Bagman's Uncle, 
(Ch. xlix.) 

Mary. A servant-girl at Mr. Nopkins’s; afterwards married to Sam 
Weller. (Ch. xxv, xxxix, xlvii, ii, liv, vi.) 

Matinters, The two Miss. Ladies attending the bali at 
Bath. (Ch. xxv.) 

.Ailler, Mr. A guest at Mr. Wardle’s, (Ch. vi, xxviii.) 

ins, Mr,, called the “Zxrnrn.” A fellow-prisoner with 
Mr. Pickwick in the Fleet. (Ch. xli, xiii) 

Madge, Mr. Jonas. Secretary of she Brick Lane Branch of the 
United Grand Junction Ebenezer Temperance Association (Ch. 
oxxxiii.) 

Matanhed, Lord A fashionable gentleman whow My. Pickwick 

- 4 














lal 








38 She Dickens Mictlonary. 


‘meets af a ballin Bath ; «friend of Captain and Mrs. Dowler. (Ch 
xxxy.) 

Muzzle, Mr. An undersized footman, with s long body and short 
lege, in the service of George Nupkins, Esq. (Ch. xxiv, xxv.) 
Namby, Mr. A sheriff’s officer who arrests Mr, Pickwlex. (Ch. xl.) 
Neddy. A prisoner for debt, confined in the Fleet; a gaiegmatic 

and taciturn man. (Ch. xlii, xiii.) 
Noddy, Mr. A friend of Mr. Bob Sawyer. (Ch. xxxii.) 
Nupkins, George, Esq, Mayor of Ipswich. Mr. Pickwick and 
his friend Mr. Tupman are brought before him on a charge pre- 
ferred by Miss Witherfield, that they are about to engage In s 
duel, — Mr. Pickwick as principal, and Mr, Tapman as his second. 
(Ch. xxiv, xxv.) See Macnes, Petru. 


‘Tho roene was an impressive one, well calculated to strike terror to the 
hearts of culprits, and to Impress them with an adequate Idea of the stern ma 
Jesty of the law, In front of a big book-case, in a big chair, bohind # big table, 
and before » big volume, swt Mr, Nupkins, looking a full size larger than any 
one of them, big as they were. The table was adorned with piles of papers; 
‘and abore the further end of It appeared the head and shoulders of Mr. Jinks, 
who was busily engaged tn looking as busy ax possible. ‘The party having all 
‘entered, Muzzle carefully closed the door, and placed himself behind his mas 
ter's chair to awnit his orders: Mr. Napkins threw himself back with thrilling 
solemnity, and scrutinized the faces of bia unwilling visitors. 

“Now, Grummer, who Is that pervon?” said Mr. Nupkins, polnting to Mr 
Pickwick, who. as the spokesman of hls friends, stood hat in hand, bowing with 
‘the utmost politeness nud respect, 

“This here’s Piokvick, your wash-up,” said Graramer. 

“ Come, none o” that ‘ere, old Strike-a-light!” Interposed Mr. Weller, elbow- 
ing himself Into the front rank. “ Beg your pardon, sir; but this here officer 0” 
yourn fn the gamboge tops "ll never earn a decent livin’ as a master 0° the cere- 
monies any vere. This here, air,” continued Mr. Weller, thrusting Grammer 
aside, and addressing tho mngistrate with pleasant familiarity, —*' this here ts 
8. Pickvick, Esquire; this here 's Mr. Tupman; that "ere ’s Mr. Snodgrass, and 
furder on, next him on the (other aide, Mr. Winkle —all wory aloe gun'?'m'n, 
‘sir, ws you'll be wery happy to have the sequalntance on: 60 the sooner you 
commits these here officers 0” yourn to the treadmill for a month or two, the 
sooner wo shall begin to be on » pleasant understanding. Dusiners first, peas 
ure arterwards, as King Itfchard the Third said ven he stabbed the tother Ring 
4u the Tower. afore he smothered the babbies.” 

At the conclusion of thts address, Mr, Wetler brushed hls hat with hile rlht 
‘elbow, and nodded benlgnly to Jinks, who had heard Lim throughout with ue 
speakable awe. 

“ Who ts thls man, Grummer?” said the magistrate. 

*Wery desp'rate charneter, your wash-up.” replied Grummer. “He attempt 
€1 to rescue the prisoners, and assaulted the officers: 40 we took him Into cus 
tedty, and brought him here.” 

* You did quite right,” replied the magistrate, “He ts evidently a desperate 
maffian."” 








© He ta my servant. sir! " sald Mr. Pickwick angrily. 

“Ott he ts your eervant; Is he?” asid Mr. Nupkins. “A consplracy to de 
Aut the ends of justice, and murder ite officers, Pekwick’s servant. Put that 
town, Mr. Jinks.» 

Mr. Jinks did 20. 

“What "* your name, fellow 2" thundered Mfr, Nupkins. 

“Veller," replied Sam. 

‘A very good name for the Newgate Calendar,” sald Mr. Nopkins, 

‘This wasajoke: o Jinks, Grammer, Dubbley, all the specials, and Musale 
went into fits of langhter for five minutes? duration. 

Pat down his name, Mr. Jinks,” said the magistrate. 

“Two 174, old feller,” aald Sam. 

Here an unfortannte special Isughed again, whereapon tho magistrate threat- 
xed to commit him instantly. It's dangerous thing laughing at the wrong 
magn Is these cases. 

“ Where do you lire?” said tho magistrate, 

“ Vare-over I can,” replied Sam. 

“Put that down, Mr. Jinks," sald the magistrate, who was fast rising Into arage, 

Score tt under," sald Sam. 

“He fs & vagabond, Mr. Jinks,” said the magistrate. “He is a vagabond oa 
bis own statement; 1s he not, Mr, Jinks?” 





“This ism very impartial country for Justice, . There ain't magise 
trate going ax don't commit himself twice as often as he commits other people.” 

‘At thils aally another special laughed, and then tried to look «0 supernaturally 
solemn, that the magistrate detected him immediately. 

Grummer,” said Mr. Nupikins, reddening with passion, * how dare you seleot 
rach an incificlent and disreputable person for @ special constable, as that man? 
‘How dare you do It, sir?” 

“Tam wery sorry, your wash-up," stammered Grummer. 

Very sorry" gald tho furious magistrate. “ You shall repent of this neglect 
of duty, Mr. Grummer: you shall be made an example of, ‘Take that fellow's 
stall away. He '* drunk. —You ’re drunk, fellow.” 

Tam not drunk, your worship," sald the man, 

“You are drunk.” returned the magistrate. “How dare you say yon are not 
drunk, sir, when I say you are? Does n't be amell of epirits, Grummer?” 

“Horrid! your wash-up,” replied Grummer, who had « vague impression that 
some was a smell of rum somewhere, 

“Tinew he did!" said Mr. Nupkins. “I saw he was drunk when he first cam 
> \crhievialahrophactmtaalaca Did you observe his excited eye, Mr. Jinks? 








rp wir? 
2 Thave 11 touched a drop of spirits this morning,” sald the man, who was = 
tober # fellow ax nved be. 

“ How dare you telf ne a falschowd ?” axid Mr. Nupkins “Isn't he drunk « 
Abts moment, Me Jinks?" 

“Certainly ein,” replied Juke 

“Mr. Jinks,” sald the magistrate, “I shall commit that man for contempt, 
Make out hij* committal, Mr. Jinks.'* 

And committed the special would have been, only Jinks, who was the magls 
rate’s adviver, having had 4 lega, education of three years In a country attorney’: 
uilice, whirpered the magistrate that be thought It would n’t do; #0 the magi 


ai 





fctlonarp, 


pointers mer every cor preparyaeers of the speclal's family be 


Deddiey, Muzelo, and all the other specials, murmured their admiration of the 
of Mr. Nupkins. 

Now, Mr. Jinks," sald the magistrate, swear Grummer.” 
Grumsser was sworn direotly; but as Grummer wandered, and Mr. Nupkine’s 
dinner was nearly ready, Mr. Nupkina eat the matter short by putting leading 
questions to Grummer, which Grammer answered as nearly tu the alfirmative aa 
he could. So the examination went off all very smooth and comfortable; and the 
and a threat against Mr. Winkle, 


‘The consultation having lasted about ten minutes, Mr. Jinks retired 10 Als end 
of the tablo; and the magistrate, with a preparatory cough, drew bimmaolf up in hile 
‘chair, and was proceeding to commence his address, when Mr, Pickwick interposed 

“I beg your pardon, alr, for interrupting you," sald Mr, Pickwick; “bat, 
before you proceed to express and mot upon any opinion you may have formed 
on the statements which have been made here. I must claim my right to be heard 


c 
‘Hold your tongue, sir!” interposed the magistrate, “or shall order an ofleee 


to remove you."” 

* You may order your officers to do whatever you plense, alr" said Mr. Wek» 

wick; “and Thave wo doubt, from the specimen I have had of the mbordination 

among ther, that, whatever you order, they will exeoute: but I shall 
tuke the liberty, oir, of claiming my right to be heard, until T am removed by 
force.” 

 Piekvick and principle!" exclaimed Mr, Weller in m very audible volos. 

am, be quiet," said Mr. Pickwick. 

Damb 4 a dent rith a hole in it,” replied Sam, 

‘Mr. Nupkins looked pt ickwick with a gaze of intense astonishment at 
ls displaying auc! moatea temerity, and was apparently about, to return @ 
very angry reply, when Mr. Jinks pulled him by the sleeve, and whispered some- 
thing i his ear. To this the magistrate returned a halfaudible answer; and then 
the whispering wa: renewed. Jinks was evidently remonstrating, 

‘At length the magistrate, gulplng down with a very bad grace his distnelinw 
Yon to hear any thing more, turned to Mtr. Pickwick, and sald sharply, * What 
Yoyou want tosay?” 

© First," eaid Mfr, Plokwlok, sending o look through his spectacles under which 
‘Nupikins quaited,—“ first I wish to know what I and my friend have bees 

hore for #* 

“ Must F tell iim?" whispered the mngistrnte to Jinks. 

“4 Lihtuk you had better, sir,” whispered Jinks to the magistrate. 

# An information hins been sworn before me," said the magistrate, “that ft i 
ithended you are going to fight a duel, and that the other man, Tupman, & 
snidier nnd abottor ‘a ls, ‘Therefore —els, Mr. Jinks 2” 

Certainly, str” : ‘ 
‘Therefore I call upon you both to—I think that’s the course, Mr, Jinks?” 

“Cortaloly, sir." 

fo—to— what, Mr. Jinks?” said the magistrate pettlehly, 











was about to say when I was 


“1 shall require good bail,” auld the magistrate, 

“Town'speople," whisperea Jinks. 

© They must be town’s-people,” said the magistrate, 

“ Wifty pounds exch,” whispered Jinks, “und householders, of course.” 

“shail require two sureties of fifty pounds each,” sald the magistrate aloud, 
with great dignity; “and they must be householders, of course.” 

But bless ray heart, wir!” eid Mr. Pickwick, who, together with Mr. Tupman, 
‘was all amazement and indignation, “we are perfoct strangers in this town. 1 
have xs little knowledge of any householders here as I have Latention of fighting 
‘a doel with anybody." 

Hi Eaars em Fepiod to maghatrace, “1 are ons; don't you, Mr Jtka?” 

“Certabaly, slr. 





atineie silty ag ees wrt inquired the magistrate, 


Mr. Pickwick recollects that he has lately heard of the adventure 
ef Mr. Alfred Jingle in those parts, under the alias of Charles Ed- 
ward Fitz-Marshall, and that rumor has it that he is about to marry 
a daughter of the mayor. Mr. Pickwick determines to speak private- 
fyto the magistrate, and, if this proves to be the fact, to expose Jingle, 
aud gain the good will of Mr. Nupkins. He therefore asks a private 
word, which, after some hesitation and great astonishment, is granted, 
‘The consultation over, Mr. Pickwick and the mayor return to the 
office. 


“Grummer,” eald the magistrate in an awful voice. 
“Your wash-up,” replied Grummer with the «tile of # favorite. 
™ Come, come, sir,” sald the magistrate sternly, * don’t let me see any of this 
Patribesen Tt tnvery unbecoming; and 1 can assure you that you have very 
gmille at. Was the account you gare me Just now strictly tru? Now te 
peels ir 
Your wash-up,” stammered Grummer, #1" — 
“Ohi you are confused, aro you?" said the magistrate, “ Mr. Jinks, you obeerre. 
ts comfusion?” 
“Certainly. sir.” replied Jinks. 
“Now,” sald the magistrate, “just repeat your statement, Grummer; and 
gain 1 warn seo to be cnreful. Mr, Jivks, take his words down.” 
‘The unfortunate Grummer proceeded to restate bis complaint; but whut Se 
ewes Mr, Jiwky's taking down hie words and the magistrate’ taking them up, hie 
teninency to rambling, and his extreme confusion, he managed to get 
tavolved, In something under three minutes. ip such a mass of entanglement and 
sontradiction, that Mr. Nupkins at once declared he did n't believe him. So the 
nes were remitted, and Mr. Jinks found « couple of ball in no time; and, all 
hese soleent proceedings having been atirfactorily concluded, Mr. Grammer wat 
‘ordered out,— a0 awful Instance of the inmability of human great 
‘seus and ths uncertain tenure of great men’s favor, 
” 

















a 


The Wickens Mictlonarn 


Nupkins, Mrs. Wife of George Nupkins, Esq. (Ch. xxv.) 

Nupkins, Miss Henrietta. Their daughter. (Ch. xxv.) 

Payne, Doctor. Surgeon of the Forty-third regiment, anda friend 
‘of Doctor Slammer's. (Ch. ii, iii.) See Staxmer, Doctor. 

Pell, Mr. Solomon. An attorney at the Insolvent Court in Por 
tugal Street; a fat, flabby, pale man, with a narrow forehead, wide 
fiance, large head, short neck, ana wry nose. (Ch. xliii, lv.) 

Perker, Mr. Agent for the Honorable Samuel Slumkey in bis 
race for parliament; afterwards Mr, Pickwick's attorney, —a little, 
high-dried man, with a dark, squeezed-up face, small, restless black 
eyes, and the air of one in the habit of propounding regular posers. 
(Oh. x, xiii, xxxi, xxxiv, xxv, xlvii, Ii, liv.) 

Phunky, Mr. Associate counsel with Serjeant Snubbin in the 
case of Bardell vs. Pickwick ; regarded as “an infant barrister,” 
as he has not been at the bar quite eight years. (Ch. xxxi, 
xxxi¥.) 

Pickwick, Samuel. Founder of the Pickwak Club. (Ch. i- 
xxvii, xxx=xxxii, xxxiv-xxxvil, xxxix-xlvili, |-lvi) 


‘The first ray of light which (lumines the gloom, ane eo. verts into a dazzling 
brilliancy that obscurity in which the earlier history of tas public career of the 
Smmortal Pickwick would appear to be involved, {s derived from the perusul of 
the following entry In the Transactions of the Pickwick Clul 

May 12, 1817.—Joneph Smniggers, Faqs, 


‘That thls Association has heard read with feelings of wnmlngled xatsfuetion 

‘and unqualified approval the paper communicated by Samuel Pickwick, Esq. 
. P.0,,t entitled * Speculations on the Source of the Hampstead Ponds, 

ations on the Theory of Tittlebate;! and that this Association 

oes hereby return [ts warmest thanks to the sald Samuel Wckwick, Hq, G.C. 

M.P.C., for the « 

Me eTost while this -Assootation ls Aoeply sensible of the advantages which 
aust acorue to the cause of science from the production to which they bare Just 
sxiverted, no loss than from the wawearied researches of Samuel Pickwick, Exq.y 
G.0.M.P.C.,1n Hornsey, Highgate, lrixton, and Camberwell, they cannot but 
‘entertain 0 lively sense of the inestimable benefits which must Inevitably rest, 
from carrying the speculations of that Iearued man Into « wider field, from €x- 

teudirg hia travels, aud consequently enlarging hls «phere of observation; to the 
Sirsceenent of knowledge and the disfusion of learning. 

“That, with the view Just mentioned, this Association has taken into Its wert 

qmnsideration & proposal, emanating from the aforesaid Samuol Pickwick, 

C., and three other Piekwickians hereinafter named, for 

of United Pickwlckiaus under the title of «The Corre 


‘Vice-President,— Member Pickwiek Ola 
4 General Chairman, — Member Pickwick Club. 








Tbe Plekwick Papers 43 


ee ns ti restred sanction and approval of this Asso 

‘That the Corresponding Society of the Pickwick Club fs therefore hereby com 
mituted; and that Samuel Pickwick, Esq. G.C, M P, C., Tracy Tupman, Eeqy 
MP. O.. Augustus Snodgrass, Esq.,M.P.C.,nnd Nathaniel Winkle, Esq., MP. Cy 
are hereby nominated wud appointed members of the same; and that they be 
‘requested to forward, from tie to tine, authenticated accounts of thelr Journeys 
and investigations; of their observations of character and manners; and of the 
whole of thelr adventures, together with all tales and papers to which local seem 
‘ty oF associations may give rise, to the Pickwick Club, stazloned in London. 

“That this Ansoolation cordially recoguixes the principle of every member of 
the Corresponding Soctety defraying his own travelling-expenses; and that it ween 
no objection whatever to the members of the aald soolety pursuing thelr inquiries 
for any length of time they please, upon the same terms. 

“That the members of the aforesaid Corresponding Society be and are hereby 
Informed, that thelr proposal to pay the postage of thetr letters, and the carriage 
of thelr parcels, has been deliborsted upon by this Association. That thix Asso 
tation considers such proposal worthy of the great minds from which it emanated; 
‘ead that it hereby signifies ite perfect acquiescence therein.” 

‘A casual observer, adds the secretary, to whose notes we are indebted for the 
following account, — n casual observer might possibly have remarked nothing ex- 
teaordinary in the bald head, and elreular spectacles, which were Intently turned 
turned towards hls (tho secretary's) face during the reading of the above resolu- 
tious. ‘To those who knew that the gigantic brain of Pickwick was working be: 
neath that forehead, and thet the besming eyes of Pickwick were twinkling be 
luind those glasses, the sight was indeed an interesting one. There sat the man 
who had traced to their source the mighty ponds of Hampetead, and agitated the 
Aclentiti¢ world with lila Thoory of Tittlebats, as calm and unmoved as the deop 
‘wuters of the one on a frosty day, oF as a solitary specimen of the other in the 
Tamost recesses of an earthen Jar. Aud how much more interesting did the spec 
tacle become, when starting into full life and animation, as ® ximultancous call 
for * Pickwick” burst from his followers, that illustrious man slowly mounted 
nto the Windsor chair, on which he had been previously seated, and addressed 
‘nw club himself nad founded! What study for an artist did that exciting scene 

‘sent! The eloquent Pickwick, with one’hand gracefully concealed behind his 
soat-talla, and the other waving in alr to asslet lis glowing declamation,— his ele 
‘vated position revealing those tights and guiters, which, had they clothedan: 
‘Bary mon, might have passed without observation, but which, when Pickwick 
dothed them (if we may use the expression), inspired involuntary awe aud 
respect, surrounded by the men who had voluntecred to share the peril of his 
travels, and who were destined to participate iu the glories of his discoveries, Oo 
hus right hand 4at Mr. Tracy Tupman; thn too susceptible Tupman, who to the 
‘wledom and experience of maturer year euperadded the enthusiasm and ardor of 
‘a boy In the most interesting €nd pardonable of human weakaeases,—love. ‘Thine 
nd feeding hod expanded that once romantic form; the black silk walstooat 
had become more and more developed; inch by inch had the gold wateb-cham 
‘neneath It dixappeared from within the range of Tupman’s vision; and gradually 
‘éad the enpactous chin encronched upon the borders of the white cravat: but the 
{oul of Tupman hind known no change, — admiration of the fair eex was still ite rul- 
Lag passion, On the left of hie great leader aut the poetic Snodgrass ; and near him, 
‘again, thesporting Winkle, — the former poetically enveloyed in « mysterious blue 
soak with a canine-vkin collar; and the latter commanicating additional lustre te 
‘Snow grees shooting-coat, plaid neckerchief, and closely-(tted drabs, 


al 














4 The Wickens Bictlenarp. © 


Mr, Pickwick starts out upon his travels with the other members 
of the Corresponding Society of the Pickwick Clab, and moets with 


many laughable and interesting adventures. At Rochester they 
attend a grand review, station themselves in the front rank of the 


erowd, and patiently await the commencement of the proceedings. 


‘The Birong was increasing every moment; and the efforts they were compelle® 
apes iti crm Reg dy regogenat oe fr tet 
Hlon during the two hours that ensued. At ouo time, there was a snddon pressure 
from behind; apd then Mr. Pickwick was jerked forward for several yards, with a 
dlogron of speed and elasticity highly incousistent with the general gravity of hie 
demennor; ut another moment there was A request to “keep back” from the 
front; and then tho butt-ond of # minket was either dropped upon Mz. Pickwick’s 
too to remind him of the demand, or thrust into his chest to Insure its being com 
plied with. ‘Then some fucetious gentleman on the left, after pressing eldeways fa 
s dody, and squeezing Mr. Snodgrass {nto the very last extreme of human torture, 
‘would request to know “vere he was a-shovin’ (o;” and, when Mr. Winkle had 
done expressing his excestive indignation at witnexing this unprovoked assault, 
some person behind would knock his hist over tls eres, and beg the favor of his 
putting his head in his pocket. These, and other practical wittielams, coupled with 
‘the unaccountable absence of Mr. Tupman (who had suddenly disappeared, and 
wat nowhere to be found). rendered thelr situation, upon the whole, rather more 
‘uncomfortable than pleasing or desirable. 

‘At longth that low roar of many voices ran through the crowd, which axaally 
‘Announces the nrrival of whatever they have been waiting for. All eyes wore 
turned fa the direction of the sally-port. A few motents of eager ex| 
and colors were sven flattering gayly in the alr; armé glistened brightly tn the aun; 
‘column after column poured ow to the plain. The troops halted and formed; the 
‘word of command rung through the line; there was a general clash of muskets ae 
‘arms were prosonted; and the commandertn-chlef, attended by Colonel Bulder 
and numerous officers, cantered to the front. The military bands strack up alt 
together; the horses stood upon two legs each, eantered backwards, and whisked 

the doge barked; the mob screamed; the troop 
recovered; and nothing was to be scen on elther side, ns far ns the eye could reach 
but a long perspective of red coats and white trousers. fixed and motionless. 

Mr. Plokwick had been so fully occupied in falling about, and disentangling 
‘Simself, miraculously. from between the legs of horees, that he hind not enjoyed 

ficient lofsure to observe tho yoone before him, wutil it assumed the dppearance 
ve have just deseribed. When he was at Inst enabled (o#tand firmly on hit bags, 
‘als gratitication and delight were unbounded. 

“Cain any thing be finer or more delightful ? he tnquired of Mr. Wink! 

* Notilng,” replied that gentleman, who tad kad a short mag standing on each 
of le feot for the quarter of un hour immediately préceding. 

“it ls indeed a noble and a brilliant sight,” sald Mfr. Suodgrass. in whose bosoe 
a binze of pootry was rapidly bursting forth.“ to see the gallant defenders of their 
ountry deawn up in « brilliant array before its penceful citieens their faces beam 
Ing, not with warlike ferocity, but with civilized gentleness ; eyes Hashing, 
not with the rude fire of rapine oF revenge, but with the soft light of bumanity and 
Aatelligence.” 

Mr. Pickwick fully entered into the spirit of this eulogiain; but be ould not 
‘exactly reccho its terms; for the soft light of intelligence burnt rather feebly ts 





Ede Blekwiek Papers 40 


ithe eyes of the warriors, Insemuch as the command, “ yes front " had been given; 
and all the spectator anw before tlm was several thousand pair of optics staring 
straight forward, wholly divested of any expression whatever. 

“We are in a capital eituntion, now!” sald Mr. Pickwick, looking round bim. 
The crowd had gradually dispersed from their immediste vicinity, and they were 
nearly alone. 

“Capital | echoed both Mr. Snodgrass and Mr. Winkle. 

“What are they doing now?” inquired Mr. Pickwick, adjusting his spectacles. 

“I—1—rather think." sald Me. Winkle, changing colory—"I rather think 
rey 're going to fire." 

“Nonsense!” said Mr, Pickwick hastily. 

“I—I—really think they are,” urged Mfr. Snodgrass, somewhat alarmed. 

‘*Tmponsible!” replied Mr. Pickwick. He had hardly uttered the word, when 
tne whole half-dozen regiments levelled thelr muskets as if they had bat one com: 
‘sion object, and that object the Pickwickiany, and burst forth with te most awful 
‘and Eremendous discharge that ever shook the earth to its centre, or an elderly 
entieman off his. 

Te was fn this trying sltuation, exposed to a galling fire of blank cartridges, and 
harassed by the operations of the military, —a fresh body of whom had begun to fall 
in on the opposite side, —that Mr. Pickwick displayed that perfect coolness and 

ion, which are the indispensable accompaniments of a great mind. He 
seteed Dir. Winkle by the arm, and, placing himself between that gentleman and 
‘Mr. Snodgrass, earnestly besought them to remember, that, beyond the possibility 
‘of being rendered deaf by the noise. there was no immediate danger to be appre 
‘heasted from the firing. 

* But —but—suppose some of the men should happen to have ball cartridges 
by mistake,” remonstrated Mr. Winkle, pallid wt the 
conjuring up. “I heard something whistle through 
lose to my ear." 

+ We hind better throw ourselves on our fhoes, had n't wo?” enld Mr. Snodgrnss. 

“No, no! it" over now,” sald Mr. Pickwick. His ip might quiver, and his 
cheek might blanch; but no expression of fear or concern escaped the fips of that 
immortal man, 

‘Mr. Pickwick was right: the firing ceased. But he had scarcely time to congrat- 
late himself on the accuracy of his opinion, when a quick movement was visible 
fu the ne: the hoarse shout of the word of command ran along it, and, before 
ticher of the party could form a goes at the meaning of this new manauyre, the 
whole of the half-dozen regiments, with fixed bayonets, charged at doublequick 
thme down upon the very spot on which Mr. Pickwick aud his friends were sta- 
thoned. 

‘Man ts but mortal; and there tsa point besond which tuman cournge cannot 
extend. Mr. Pickwick gazed through his spectacles for an Instant on the advan- 
clog mas; and then falely turned his back, and—we will not say fled; first, 
beenuse it is an ignoble term, and, secondly, because Mr. Pickwick's figure was by 
(bo soenne adupted for that mode of retreat. He trotted away nt a quick a rate ax 
‘is legs would convey him.—so quickly, indeed, that he did not perceive the awk» 
‘aniaess of his situation to the full extent, until too lave. 

‘The opposite troops, whore falling-in had perplexed Mr, Pickwick a few seconde 
before, were drawn up to repel the mimio attack of the cham besiegers of the eit 
Sel; and the consequence was, that Mr. Pickwick and his two companions found 
dhemeeives suddenly enclosed between two lines of great length, —the une advan 
‘sing at & rapid pace, and the other firmly waiting the collision {n hostile array. 











lesgh— 

reg wey Sel 5 Sect yards od; and the soles of Mr. 
Plekwici"> Rents serve chewed se al 

Me Soolgraee aun Se White Sad each pectoral a compulsory somerset with 

Pemmartablie att. weve ier Se whe ae cet Che wee of te Larter as he ea 

(90 the grotnah, commthiong weit a iw Tk Menkerchief the stream of life whieh 

‘suet fom Ris ee ae te re ewe at weet Ghcace off, running after 


th praia Ri owe hak A wae dead af meine and a peculiar degree of Jadg 
ent are ceyuindie  ceting a tet A mee meat not be precipitate, or he runs 
‘over ik; be tise we To bute che eppenie extreme, or be loves it altogether. The 


‘The wind peed and Me Pletwick puted, and the hat rolled orer and over as 
sereSly as 2 Ret pecqedie be a creme tide; aad on It might have rolled, far 
berumd Me Pettey reach. Dad nest he coarse oeem providentially stopped Just 
(as that gramiiemamn wae om the peta of evsigning It to [ts fate, 

‘Mr. Pickwick we aay, was compintety exhaasted, and adnt to give up the chase, 
when te bas wae blows with some violence apsiaat the wheel of a carriage, 

Ducting Sheward to pick it up, Mr. Pickwick % accosted by Mr. 
‘Tupman, who has made the anpusintance of My Wardle and his 
Sail (he occupants of the carriage’ and is introduced to them, a¢ 
ace Mb Suoiigrass an Ms. Winkle, #ho come up shortly after, 
Being all ineBei to visit Manor Farm, Mr. Wardle's home, on the 
llowing Gap. they determine to igo, —thrve of them in a chaise, and 
wee om Rermeback. At an early hour, the carriage is brought to the 
nr 


Se ten — el abe De Mr. Winkie. 
lhe mer som” Maid Mi, Pickwick: as they stood pos the pa wment while 
Gece wae Doing pat — "Dessay eae! who's todrire? neve thought 


Oe rem ae cous,” mua Me, Tope 
Oh ee seed 








Ede Vichwiek Papers. a7 


“He Gon't shy; doos ho?” inquired Sr. Plekwick. 

“Shy, ger? He would u’t aby if he was to meet m vaggin-lond ot monkers who 
hetr tails burnt off.” 

“The last recommendation was indisputable, Mr, Tupman and Mr. Snodgrass 
fot into the bin; Mr. Piekwick ascenced to his perch, and deposited bis foot on # 
Soor<lothed shelf erected beneath It for that purpose. 

“Now, Shlay Villiem,” sald the hostler to the deputy hoxtler, “gire the gen" 
tv's the ribbins.” “Shiny Villiam”—so called, probably, from his sleek halr and 
oily countenance—placed the reins {a Mr. Pickwick’s left hand; and the upper 
Sostler thrust a whip into his right, 

“Woo! eried Mr. I'fokwick, as the tall quadruped evinced a decided tnclination 
0 bsek Into the coffee-room window. 

“Wo=o!" echoed Mr. Tupmun and Mr. Snodgrass from the bin. 

“Only his playfulness, gen"lm'n,” said the head hostler encouragingly; “jist 
kited bold on him, Villiam.” The deputy restrained the animal's impetuosity, and 
the principal ran to assist Mr. Winkle in mounting. 

“TD other side, wir, if you please” 

“ Blowed if the gen’lm'n worn’t a-gettin’ up on the wrong side!” whispered a 
grtaning post-boy to the inexpressibly gratified walter. 

‘Mr. Winkle, thus instructed, olimbed into his snddio with about ss much «lft. 
eee experienced in getting up the aide of a first-rate man-of- 





Se ath” {nguired Mr. Pickwick, with an inward presentiment that it was 


wrong. 

“All right1™ replied Mr. Winkle faintly. 

“Let ‘em got” eried the hoatler, “hold htm fn, alr; and away went the chaise 
and the saddle-horse, with Mr. Pickwick on the box of the one, nnd Mr. Winkle on 
the back of the other, to the delight and gratification of the whole Inn-yard. 

“Whitt mules him go aideways ?” said Mr. Snodgrass in the bin tw Str. Winkle 
fs the saddle. 

Loan’ imagine,” replied Mr. Winkle, His horse was going wp the «treet tn 
the most mysterious manner,—side Grat, with his head towards one side of the 
way, and his tall to the other. 

‘Mr, Pickwick had no lelsure to observe elther this or any other particular; the 
whole of his faculties being concentrated in the management of the animal at- 
tached to the chaise, who displayed various peculiarities highly Interesting to m 
bystander, but by no means equally amusing to any one seated behind him. 
Besides constantly Jerking his head up In avery unpleasant aud uncomfortable 
‘manner, and tugging wt the reins to an extent which rendered it a master of great 
difiealty for Mr. Pickwick to hold them, he had m singular propensity for darting 
suddenly, every now and then, to the side of the road, then stopplag ahort, and 
then rushing forward for some minutes, at a speed which It was wholly Impossible 
wcontrot. 

“What can he mean by this?” «aid Mr. Snodgrass, when the horse had exe 

this manceavre for the twentieth time. 
#1 don% know," replied Mr. Tupman: it looks very like shying, don’t It?” 
‘Mr. Suodgracs was about to reply, when ho was interrupted by ® shout from Mr. 





Pickwick. 

“Woo! said that gentleman, “1 have dropped my whip.” 

“ Winkle," cried Mr. Snodgrass, ax the equestrian came trotting up on the tall 
“Pores, with his hist over his ears, and shaking all over, as if he would shake to 
toes with the violence of the exercise, —~ pick up the whip; there "a a good 








ss Ebe Dickens Dictlonary. 


Rilow? Mr. Winkle pulled at the bridle of the tall bores till he was Dinck in the 
faco; and having. at length, succeeded In stopping tim, diemoanted, handed the 
‘whip to Mr. Pickwick, and, grasping the reins, prepared to remount. 

‘Now, whether the tall horse, in the natural playfulness of lls disposition, was 
desirous of having a little fanocent recreation with Mr. Winkle, or whethor { 
oveurred to him that he could perform the Journey ax much to his own satisfaction 
without # rider ws with one, are polnts upon which, of course, we can arrive at no 
‘tednite and distinct conclusion. By whatever motives the animal was actuated, 
‘ceriaiu it fs, that Mr. Winkle had no sooner touched the reins than he slipped them 
‘over his head, and darted backwards to thelr full length. 

“Boor fellow!" said Bir. Winkle soothingly, “poor fellow, good old horse!" 
‘The “poor fellow” was proof against flattery: the more Mr. Winkle tried to get 
hearer him, the more he sidied away; snd, notwithstanding wil kinds of coaxing 
and wheedting, there were Mr. Winkle and the horse going round and round each 
other for ten minates, at the end of which time each was at precisely the same dis- 
tance from the othor as when they first commenced, — nn unsatisfactory sort of thing 
under any circumstances, but particularly s0 in a lonely road, where no assistance 
can be procured. 

“What am I todo?” shouted Mr, Winkle, after the dodging had been prolonged 
for a considerable time. “What am Ito do? I can't get on him!” 

“You had better lead him till we come to # turnpike," replied Mr. Pickwick 
from the chalse. 

“But he wont come,” roared Mr. Winkle. “Do come and hold him.” 

Dr. Pickwick was the very persountion of kindness wud humanity: he threw 
the reins on the horse's back, and, having descended from hie seat, carefully drew 
ho chaise tnto the hedge, leat any thing should come along the road, and stepped 
bavk to the aasistance of his distressed companion, lesving Mr. Tupman and Mr. 
Snodgrass in the vehicle. 

‘Tho horve no soonee bebeld Mr. Pickwick advancog towards him, with the 
chalsewwhip in his hand, than he exchanged the rotary motion in whiok he bad 

revlously indulged, for a retrogrede movement, of ao very determined a charac- 
ter, that It at once drew Mr. Winkle, who was still nt tho end of the bridle, at a 
rather quicker rate than fust walking, in the direction from which they had Just 
come, Mr. Pickwick ran to bis masiatance; but, the faster Mr. Pickwick ran for 
ward, the faster the horse ran backward. ‘There was a grest ecraping of feet, and 
kicking wp of the dust; and at last Mr. Winkle, his arms being nearly putled ont 
ot thelr sockets, fairly let go his hold, ‘The horse paused, stared, shook bis head, 
Aurned round, and quietly trotted home to Rochester, leaving Mr, Winkle and Mr. 
Vickwiek gazing om each other with countenances of blank dismay. A rattling 
tole at w little distance attracted thelr attention. They looken up. 

“Blots my seul! exclaimed the agonteed Mr. Pickwick: “there ‘s the other 
horse runing avway!” 

11 was bat too true. ‘The animal was startled by the noise, and the reius were 
fm hls back. The result may be guessed. He tore off with the four-wheeled chalre 
belied bmn, went Mr, ‘Tupman and Mr. Snodgrass tn the fourwheeled chalve, ‘The 
bear was a short one, Mr. Topman threw himself into the hedge; Mz. Snodgrass 
fhliuwed his example; the horse dashed the fourwheoled chain against a wooden 
bridge, separated the wheels from the bedy, and finally #7004 stock still to gaze 
pn Vive rus be had mate. 


After oxtrieating themselves, the party are compelled to walk and 
fe lonil thy horse; and it is not until late in the afternoon that they 
reach Manor Faru, tired, dusty, and foot-sore. 








She Pickwick Papers. 49 


‘When in London, Mr. Pickwick makes it his home at Mrs. Bar 
dell’s, in Goswell Street, where he has very comfortable lodgings, and 
= very accommodating landlady. He determines, however, to take a 
servant; and, desiring to consult Mra. Bardell in relation to the mat- 
ter, be sends for hor. 


“Mev. Bandoll,” sald Mr, Pickwick 

“Sir, sald Mrs, Bardell . « 

“Do you think Ita much greater expense to keep two people than to keep 
one? 

“Ls, Mr, Pickwick!” said Mrs. Dardelt, coloring up to the very border ¢€ ker 
‘ap, us the fancied she observed a species of matrimoulal twinkle In the eyes of 
her lodger, —“ la, Mr. Pickwick, what a question! * 

Bs Wats bak ae gos tS Tejulred Dr. Paco. 

‘That depends,” anid Mrs. Bardell, . . . “that depends a good deal upon the 
person, you know, Mr. Pickwick; and whether it's a saving and careful person, 

” 








“That's very true," sald Mr. Pickwick; “but the porson I hare In my eye (here 
he looked very hard at Mrs. Bardell) I think possesses these qualities, and has, 
morvorer, a considerable knowledge of the world, and a great deal of sharpness, 
Mrs, Bardelt, which may be of material use to me." 

“La, Mr, Pickwick!” anid Mra. Bardoll, the crimson rising to her cap-border 





again, 

‘“f do," said Mr. Piekwiek, growing energetic, us was his wout In speaking of 
subject which Interested him,—*'T do, indeed; and, to tell you the truth, Mrs, 
Bardell, { have made up tay mind.” 

“ Dear me, sir!” exclaimed Mrs. Bardell. 

= You it think It not very strange now,” raid the amiable Mr. Pickwick, with a 
good:tumored glance at his companion, “that I never consulted you about 
‘matter, and never mentioned it, till I sent your little boy out thix morning—eh?” 

Mrs. Biardell could only reply by m look. She had long worshipped Mr. Pick- 
‘wick at  distaneo; but here she was, all at once raised to a plunacle to whlch her 
wildest and most extravagant hopes had never dared to aspire. Mr, Pickwick was 
ein to propore—n deliberate plan, too—sent hor little boy away. 





After a few words more, Mrs. Bardell, overcome by her feelings, 
goes off into eestatic hysterics, and throws herself into the arms of 
Mr. Pickwick, who vehomently protests, and begs her to desist. 

“Mrs. Bartoily my good worman—dear mo, what a altuation! Pray ecnalder, 
Mrs. Hardell; don't—~if wnybody should come" — 

“Oh! let them come," exclaimed Mrs. Bardell frantically. “I'll never lears 
‘you—desr, kind, good, soul! "Acd with these words Mrs. Bardell clung the 
tighter. 





“ Merey upon ma!" aid Mr. Pickwick, straggling violently. “ f tear somebody 
4 the stairs. Don't, don’t, there’s a good creature, don’t.* Butentreaty 
“Gnd remonstrancs were alike unavailing: for Mrs. Bardell had fainted in Mr. Piek- 
wick's arse; and. before he could gain timo 19 deposit her on w chair, Master Bar- 
“dell entered the room, ushering in Mr. Tupman. Mr. Winkle, and Mr. Snodgrass. 

‘Mr. Pickwiek was struck motionless ana speechless. fe stood with lus Lovely 
eee ay otee recently ‘on the countenances of his friends, without 




















50 She Wickens Wietlonary 


Iho slightest attempt at recognition oF explanation, ‘They, ka thele tara, stared et 
him; and Master Bardell, in his turn, stared ut everybody. 

‘Th) artoalahment ofthe Pickwickians was so absorbing, and tho perplexity of 
Mr. Pickwick was so extreme, that they might have romainodin exactly the same 
relative situations until the suspended antmation of the Indy was restored, hal t 
not been for @ most beautiful and touching expression of fllal affection on the 
part of her youthful son. Clad {n a tight sult of corduroy spangled with brass 
buttons of a very considerable size, he at first stood at the door astounded and un- 
certain; but, by degrees, the Impression that his mother must have suffered some 
personal damage pervaded his partially-teveloped mind, and, considering Mr. 
Pickwick as the aggressor, he ect up an appalling and semb-earthly kind of how! 
lag, and, batting forward with his head, commenced assalling that fmmortal gen. 
oman about tho back aud legs, with such blows and pinches ss the strength of 
‘hls arm and the violence of his excitement allowed. 

“Take this litte villaia away!” aald the agonized Mr. Pickwick. “Me's madt* 

© What és the matter?” sald the three tongue-tied Pekwickians. 

“1 doo’t know,” replied Mr. Pickwick pettishly. “Take away the boy (here 
Mr. Winkle carried the interesting boy, screaming and struggling, to the farther 
end of the apartment), Now help mo to lead this woman down stairs." 

“Oh! [am better now,” sald Mrs. Bardell fulntly. 

“Let mo lead you down stalre.” sald the ever gallant Mr. Tupman. 

“Thank you, sir; thank yout" exclaimed Mrs. Bartell hysterically. And 
down stairs sho was led accordingly, aosompanted by her affectionate son. 

“Teannot conceive," sald Mr. Pickwick, when his friend returncd,—"“I ean- 
not conceive what has been the matter with that woman. I had merely announced 
to her my intention of keeping @ man-servant, when she fell into the extraordl- 
‘ary paroxysm tn which you found her. Very extraordinary thing!” 

Very sald his three friends. 

“Placed mo in such an extremely awkward situation,” continued Mr. Pick 
wick. 

+ Very!” was the reply of his followers, as they coughed alightly, and looked 
dubjoualy at each other. 

‘This behavior was not lost upon Mr. Pickwick. He remarked thelr Incredu- 
Mty. ‘They evidently suspected him. 


After this occurrence Mr. Pickwick engages Samuel Weller as his 
servant; and the next day they all set out for Eatanswill to observe 
the incidents attending an election at that borough. The parties 
there are dirided into two factions, —the Buffs and the Blues. 


‘Of course it was exsntially and indlspensably necessary that each of these pow+ 
erful parties should have its chosen organ and representative; and, accordingly, 
there were two newspapers In the town,—“ The Eatanswill Gazette" and “The 
Eatanswill Independent ;" the former advocating Biue principles, wnd the latter con 
ducted on grounds decidedly Buf. Fine newspapers they were! Such leading ar- 
Holes, ana tach xplrited attacks !—“ Our worthless contemporary «The Gazette)” 
That disgraceful and dastardly journal ‘The Independent” “That false and 
sourrilous print ‘The Independent,” “ That vile and slanderous calumniator The 
‘Gaxotte,'”—thooe and other splrit-stireing denunciations were strowa plentifilly 
‘ever the columus of each, in every number, and excited feelings of the most 
\otenye delight and indignation in the bosoms of the town's-people, 

‘Mr, Pickwick, with his usual foresight and sagacity, had chosen w peeullarly de 


Sbe Plckilet Papers. 61 


‘tirable moment for his visit to the borough. Never was such a contest known, 
The Honorable Samuel S.umkey of Slumkey Hull was the Blue candidate; and 
Horatio Fizkin, Keq., of Fizkin Lodge, near Eatanswill, had been prevailed upon 
ty his friends to stand forward on the Huif Interest. “The Gazetto” warned the 
tlectors of Eatanswill that the eyes, not ouly of England, but of the whole clvil- 
teed world, were upon them. “The Independent ” imperatively demanded to know 
‘whether the constituency of Eatanswill were the grand fellows they bad always 
taken them for, or base und servile tools, undeserving allke of the name of Eng- 
lishmen and the blessings of freedom. Never had such a commotion agitated 
‘the town before. 

Te was late in the evening when Mr. Pickwick and his companions, assisted by 
‘Sam, dismounted from the roof of the Eatanewill coach. Large blue «ilk flags 
‘were lying from the windows of the Town Arms Inn; and bills were posted in 
every sash, intimating, in gigantic letters, that the Honorable Samuel Slumkey”s 
‘Committee sat there dally. A crowd of idlers wer assembled in the road, look- 
ing at a hoarse man in the balcony, who was apparently talking himself very red 
fn the face in Mr. Slumkey’s behalf; Dut the force and polnt of whose arguments 
‘were somewhat impalred by the perpetual beating of four large drums, which Mr. 
Fizkin’s committee had stationed at the strect-corner. There was busy little 
man beside him, though, who took off his hat at fntervals,and motioned to the 
people to cheer, which they regularly did, most onthuslastically; and, aa the red- 
ficed gentleman went on talking till he was redder in the faco than ever, t seemed 
to answer his purpore quite as well as if anybody had heard him, 

‘The Pickwickians had no sooner dismounted than they wore surrounded by = 
branch mob of the honest and independent, who forthwith set up three deafening 
cheers, which, being responded to bythe main body (for It" not atall necewsary for 
crowd toknow what they are cheering about), swelled into tremendous roar of 
triumph, which stopped even the red-fuced man in the balcony. 

“Murrah?” shouted the mob in conclusion. 

“One cheer more!” screamed the little fugleman in the balcony; xnd out shout 
ed the mob again; as if Langs were cast {ron, with atee) works. 

“ Slumkey forever!” roared the honest and independent, 

“Shumbkey forever!” echoed Mr. Pickwick, taking off his hat. 

“No Pizkin! " roared the crowd, 

“Certainly not! " shouted Mr. Pickwick. 

“Harrah!” And then there was another roaring. like that of a whole monnge- 
the when the elephant has rung the bell for the cold meat, 

“Who ts Slumkey ?* whispered Mr. Tupman. 

“Edon't know,” replied Mr. Pickwick in the samo tone. “Hush! Don't ask 
any questions. It%s always best on these occasions to do what the mob do? 

“But suppose there aro two mobs,” suggested Mr. Suodgrass. 

“Shoat with the largest |” replied Mr. Pickwick, 

‘Volumes could not have said more. 





While in the country, Mr. Pickwick and his friends think it will 
pe well to indulge in a little sport, and consequently resolve to go 
out gunning. Accompanied by Mr. Wardle, they take an open care 
Fiageand driveoff, Arrived at the grounds, Mr. Pickwick finds him- 
self too lame to walk, and is much disappointed thereat; but Sam, 
eaving discovered a wheelbarrow, proposes to give him a free ride 





52 Ede Oickens Dictlonary 


inthis novel vehicle, which proposition Mr. Pickwick gratefully ac 
cepts. But here a difficulty arises. The gamekeeper resolutely 
protests against the introduction into « shooting-party of a gentle 
man in a barrow, as a gross violation of all established rules and pre« 
codenta, 


‘It was » great objection, but not an turarmountable one, The gamekeeper bav- 
Ing been ccaxed and feed, and having, moreover, eased his mind by “punching® 
the head of the tuventive youth who had first suggested the use of the machine, 
Mr, Pickwick was placed In tt, and off the party set, — Wardle and the long game 
Keeper leading the way; and Mr. Pickwick in the barrow, propelled by Sam, brings 
Ing up the rear. 

Stop, Sam" said Mr, Pickwick, when they hnd got haif across the first field, 

“| What ‘s the matter now ?” said Wardle, 

“ T won't suffer this barrow to be moved another step," sald Mr. Pickwick reso 
lutely, “untoss Winkle oarries that gun of his inn different manner” 

‘“ How am Tto carry it?” said the wretched Winkle. 

“ Curry it with the muzzle of it to the ground,” replied Mr. Plokwick. 

“It’s 60 uneportaman-like," reasoned Winkle. 

 T don’t care whether it's unsporteman-like, or not,” replied Mr. Pickwick. “T 
am not going to be shot in a wheelbarrow, for the sake of appearances, to plese 
anybody." 

“Tknow the gentlemax "It put that 'ere chargeinto somebody afore he 'sdane,* 
growled the long man, 

“Well, well, f don’t mind,” said poor Winkle, turning hi gun-ttock upper 

“there! 
‘Any thin’ for a quiet life,” raid Mr. Weller; and on they went again. 

“Stop!” said Mr. Pickwick after they had gone a few yards further. 

“What now ?" suid Wardle. 

That gun of Tupman’s is not aafe: T know it ent!" aald Mr. Wokwiok. 

“Eh? What! not safo?” sald Mr. Tupman in a tone of great alarm. 

“ Not as you are carrying tt,” said Mr. Pickwick. “I am very sorry to make 
any further objections; but I caunot consent to go on unless you carry {tas Wine 
ele does hts.” 

“I think you had better, sir," sald the long gamekeeper, “or you ‘re quite as 
likely to lodge the charge into your own restoont as in anybody else's." 

‘Mr. Tupman, with the most obliging haste, placed his piece In the position re 
quired, and the party moved on aguin; tho two amature marching with revered 
arms, like m couple of privates at a royal funeral. 

‘The dogs came suddenly to a dead stop; und the party, advancing stealthily « 
tingle pace, stopped too. 

“Whats the matter with the dogs" legs?" whispered Mr. Winkle. “How quecr 
they *re standing!” 

“Hash! can’ you?* replied Wardle softly, “Don’t you see they *re making # 

2” 

“Making # point} ” sald Mr, Winklo, staring about him, os if he expected to 
discover some particutar beanty in the landscape, which the sagucions animals 
wore calling special attention to, —“ making a point! What are they pointing 
we” 

Keep your eyes open,” said Wanile, not heeding the question tn the excite 
fernt of the moment, “ Now, then! 











The Plekinich Papers fis] 


‘Toure wus a sharp whirring nolse, that made Mr. Wiukle start back as if le bad 
been shot himself. Bang, bang, went a-couple of guns, ‘The smoke swept quickly 
auray over the field, and curled into the air. 

“Where are thoy?” anid Mfr. Winkle in a state of the highest excitement, turns 
fog round and round In all direetions,—"" where are they? ‘fell me when to fre, 
‘Where are they ? where are they?” 

“Where are they /" sald Wardle, taking up s brace of birds which the dogs 
head deposited at his foet,—" where are they? Why, liere they are,” 

/+No, 80! I mean tho others,” said the bewildered Winkle. 

* Bar enough off by this time," replied Wardle, coolly reloading hls gun. 

“Weshall very likely be up with another covey ta five minutes," raid the long 
wamekecporr. “If the gentleman begins to fire now, perhaps he’ just get the 
‘shot out of the barrel by the time they riso.” 

“Ha, ha, hat" roared Mr. Weller. 

“ Sam," raid Mr, Pickwick, compassionating his follower’s confusion and em- 
barrassment, 

46 Bara 

Don’ tnngh.” 

* Certainly not, str” So, by way of indemnification, Mr. Weller contorted his 
features from behind the wheelbarrow, for the exclusive amusement of the boy 
‘with the leggings, who thereupon burst into » boisterous laugh, and was sum 
marily cuffed by the long gamckeeper, who wanted a pretext for turning round to 
hide hls own merriment, 

“ old follow!” said Wardle to Mr. Tupman: “ you fired that time, at al 
frente 

“Oh, yos! replied Mr. Tupman with consetous pride, “1 let It off. 

“Well dene. You ll bt something next cline If you look sharp. Very easy; 
anbrate” 

© Yes, it very easy,” sald Mr. Tupman. * How it hurts one’s shoulder, thought 
‘Itnearly knocked imo backwards. I had no Iden these small flre-arms kicked #0.” 

©Ab1" sald the old gentleman, smiling. * You ‘ll got used to it In time, Now, 
then —all ready, all right with the barrow there?! 

“All right, air,” replied Mr. Wel 

“Come along, then.” 

“Hold hard, air,” said Sam. ralsing the barrow. 

“Ay, ay!" replied Mr. Pickwick; and on they went as briskly as need be. 

# Keep that burrow back. now,” oried Wardle, when it had been hotsted over a 
sille tnto another field, and Mr. Pickwick had been deposited in It once more. 

* All right. xir.” replied Mr, Weller, paneing. 

“ Now, Winkle,” suid the olf gentleman, ‘follow me softly, and don’t be tow 
late this time.” 

* Never fear,” ald Mr. Winkle. Are they potnting”” 

“No. no! not now. Quietly now. quietly.” On they crept, and very quictly 
hey would have ndvanced, if Mr. Winkle, in the performance of some very intr. 
gate evolutions with his gun, had not accidentally fired, at the most critical moe 
ment, over the boy's head, exactly in the very spot where the tall mau’s brain 
Would have been, had he been there testead. 

+ Why, what om earth did you do that for?” sald oid Wardio, ax the birds flew 
anharmed away. 

“1 nuver saw muck a gun in my life!" replied noor Winkle, looking atthelock, as 
‘W that would do any good. “It goos off of its ewnscoord. It will do it.” 

» 

















oh Ebe Wickens Mictlonarp. 


“Wilt do it! "echoed Wardle, with something of trritation in his manner. *« 
‘wish H would kill something of ite own accord” 

“Tt de that afore long, alr," observed the tall man tn» low, prophetic 
‘voles. 

© What do you mean by that observation, sir?” ingaired Mr. Winkle angrily. 

‘“ Never mind, alr, never mind” replied the long gamekeeper, * 1 "ve no 
family myself, sir; and this here boy's mother will get something handwme from 
Mir GeotTroy, If he ' killed on his tand. Load again, str; load again” 

Toke away hie gual” erlod Mr. Pickwick from the barrow, horrorastricken at 
the Long nian’s dark Inslauations. “Take away his gun! do you hear, somebody ?* 

Nobody, however, volunteered to obey the command; and Mr. Winkle, after 
Gartings roboltions glance ot Mr. Pickwick, reloaded his gun, and proceeded om. 
‘warils with the rest, 

‘Wo are bound, on the authority of Mr. Pickwick, to state thnt Mr, Tupman's 
mode of proceeding evinced far more of prudence and deliberation than that 
adopted by Ar. Winkle... 

Wh the quickness and penetration of a man of gonlus, he had at once observed 
Ahat the two great points to be attained, were first to discharge his plece without 
Injury to himself, and, secondly, to do so without danger to the by-standers. 
‘Obviously the best thing to do, after surmounting the dimoulty of fring at all, was 
to shut bis eyes demly, and fire iuto the ar. 

On one occasion, after performing this feat, Mr. Tupman, on opening his eyes, 
beheld « plump partridge In the very act of falling wounded to the ground. He 
was Just on the potnt of congratulating Wardle on his invariable success, when 
that geutteman advanced towards him, and grosped him warmly by the hand. 

**Tupman,” sald the old gentleman, “you alngled out that particular bird >” 

“No, eaid Mr. Tupman, —"' no.” 

You did,” sald Wardle. “J saw you do It; T observed you plck him out; 1 
notlood you as you raised your pleco to take alm: and I will eay this, that the 
best shot in existence could not have done it more beautifully, You are an older 
hand at this than I thought you, Tapman; you have been out before.” 

Tt was In vain for Mr. Tupman to protest, with a smile of self-denial, that he 
nover tad. ‘Tho very «milo was taken as evidence to the contrary; and, from that 
time forth, his reputation was established. It is not the only reputation that has 
boon acquired as easily; nor are much fortunate elreumstances confined to partridge- 
shooting. 

‘Moanwhile, Mr. Winklo flashed and blazed and smoked sway without produ. 
lng any material results worthy of being noted down; sometimes expending his 
ge in mid-air, and at others sending it ekimming along so noar the aurfice of 
1@ ground as to place the lives of the two dogs on n rather uncertain and preca- 
Hous tenure. Ax a display of fancy-shooting. it wasextremely varied and eurlous; 
# an exhibition of firing with any precise object, it was, upon the whole, porhsps 
efailure. . 4. 

“Well,” ead Wardle, walking up to the side of the barrow, and wiping the 
streains of perspiration from his jolly red fuoe; * emoking day, is n't it?” 

“Ils, tmiced,” replied Mr. Pickwick. “The sun is tremendously hot, even te 
sme, T don’t know how you must fool ft" 

“ Why," sald the old gentleman, “ pretty hot. It's past twelve, thongh. Yow 
‘bee that green hill (hero ?”” 

“Certatnly 

“That % the pilace whgre we are tolanch ; and, by Jove! theres the Doy with the 
basket, punctual as tlock-work.” 























Ede Pickwick Papers. iid 


“Sohe ls,” said Mr. Pickwick. brightening up. “Good boy, that. Ill give hi 
‘fs shilling presently. Now, then, Sam, wheel away.” 

‘Hold on, sir?” exid Mr. Weller, invigorated with the prospect of refreshments, 
“Out of the vay, young leathers! If you walley my precious life don’t upsot me, 
& the geo'l'man sald to the driver when they was a-carryin’ him to Tybarn.” 
And, quickening his pace to w sharp run, Mr. Weller wheeled his master to the 
Freon hill, shot him dexterously out by the very aide of the basket, and proceeded 
lars tt aa 


“© A wery good notion of a lunch It ts, take It altogether," anid Mr. Weller, #ur- 
‘veylag tile of the repast with great satisfnotion. “Now, gen'l'mex, 
‘fall on,’ as the English eald to the French when they fixed bagginets.” 

At needed no #eoond Suvitation to induce the party to yield full Justice to the 
seal and as Little pressing did it require to induce Mr. Weller, the long gumckeoper, 
‘aad the two bors, to station themselves on the grass at a little distance, and to do 
Pod execution upon m decent proportion of the visnds, An old onk-tres afforded 
‘& pleasant shelter to the group; aud a rich prospect of arable aud meadow land, 
fotersected with luxuriant hedges, and richly ornamented with wood, lay spread 
‘eut before them. 

“This &4 delightful, thoroughly delightful!” said Mr. Pickwick, the skin of 
whore expressive countenance was rapidly peeling off with exporure to the 
ean. 

“Ro ft ix, 0 It Is, old fellow 1" replied Wardl 





“Come, a glass of punch.” 





Good” said Mr, Pickwick, smacking his lips,—" very good! I'l take another. 
Cool, very evol. Come, gentlemen,” continued Mr. Pickwick, still retaining tle 
‘bold mpon the Jar, “+m tonst; ‘Our friends at Dingley Dell.)" 

‘The toast was drunk with loud acclamutions, 

“211 toll you what I hall do to get up my shooting again,” eald Mr. Winkle, 





who was eating bread and ham with apocket-knife. “Ill put a stuffed jartridgo 
‘on the top of a post, and practise at It, beginning mt m short distance, amt length. 
ening it by degrees. T understand it “s a capital practice.” 

“Tknow s gen’l’man, sir,” «nid Mr, Weller, ‘aa did that, and bogun at two 
yards: but be never tried it on ngin; for he blowed the bird right clean away at 
‘the firvt fire, and nobody ever seed a feather on him arterwards.” 

“ Sam" eald Mr, Viokwick. 

Sir," replied Mr. Weller. 

™ Have the goodness to reserre your anecdotes till they are called for.” 

Cert aly, ale.” 

‘More Mr. Weller winked the eye which was not concealed by the beer-ean be 
was raising to his Hips, with such exquisite fucetionsess, that the two boys went 
spontaneous convulsions; and eren the long man condescended to srnile. 

4 Well, that certalaly ix most capital eold punch,” said Mr. Pickwick, looking 
earnestly at the stone bottle; “nnd the day is extremely warm, and—Tupman, 
my dear friena, a glass of punch ?” 

“With the grentest delight,” replied Mr. Tupman:; and, having drunk that glas 
Mr. Pickwick took another, just to see whether thero was any orange-peel in the 
aneh, because orangepecl always disagreed with him; and, finding st there 
‘was not, Mr. Piokwick took another glass to the health of thelr absent friend, and 
shee felt Bimself inperatively called upon to propose ayother in honor of the 
panch-compounder, 





; unknown. 











. 
66 The Dickens Dictionary. 


‘This constant succession of glasses produced considerabie effect upon Mr. 
Pickwick; lis countenance beamed with the most sunny amis; laughter played 
‘around hile lip; and good-humorod merriment twinkled in his eye. Yielding 
‘by degroce to the influence of the exciting liquid, rendered more so by the heat, 
‘Mr. Pickwick expressed a strong desire to recollect a song which he had heard in 
‘his Infancy, and, the attempt proving abortive, songlt to stimnlate his memory 
‘with more glasses of punch, which appeared to hare w quite contrary effect; for, 
‘fom forgetting the words of the song, he began to forget how to articulate any 
‘words ut aif; and finally, after rising to his legs to addross the company in an 
sloquent speech, be fell into the barrow, nnd fast asleep simultaneously. 

‘Tho basket having been repacked, and St being found perfectly impossible to 
awaken Mr. Piekwiek from his torpor, some discussion took place whether It 
‘would be Better for Mr. Weller to wheel his master back again, or to leave him 
where be was antil they should be nll ready to return. ‘The latter couren was at 
Jength decided oa; and as thelr further expedition was not to exeeed mn hour's 
daration, and as Mr. Weller begged very bard to be one of the party, it was do- 
termined to leave Mr. Pickwick asleep in the barrow, and to eall for him on thelr 
return, So away they went, leaving Mr. Pickwick snoring most comfortably in 
the shade. 

‘That Mr, Pickwick would have continue! to anore in the shade until his friends 
came tack, or, tn Gefhult thereof, until the shades of evening had fallen om the 
tandscape, there appears no reasonable cause to doubt; always eupposing that be 
bad been waifered to remain there in peace. But he was not suffered to resoain 
there In peace. And this Is what prevented him, 

Captain Boldwig was a litte fierce man ina stiff black neckerchief and blue 
surtout, who, when he did condescend to walk about his property, did it in com- 
pany with a Udek rattan stick with a brass ferule, and a gardener and sub-garden- 
‘ee With meek ficos, to whom (the gardeners, not the stick) Captain Doldwig 
gave his orders with all due grandeur and ferocity; for Captaln Boldwig's wife's 
sister bad warried a marquis, and the captain's house was a villa, snd his land 
grounds; and it was all very high and mighty and great. 

Mr. Pickwiek nd not been aaleep half an hour, when little Captain Roldwig, folk 
dowed by the turo gardeners, came striding along 28 fast aa his alze and importance 
would let him; and, when he came near the cak-tree, Captain Boldwig paused, 
‘and drew long breath, and looked at the prospect, as if he thought the prospeot 
waght to be highly gratified wt having him to take notice of it; and then he struck 
Lye growed omphationlly with his stick, and summoued the head-gardener, 

© Hhaet" aad Captain Boldwig. 

* Yoo, #ify" sald the gardener. 

# 2holl this place tomorrow moraing. Do you hear, Hunt?” 

Yew, abr.” 

“And take cure that you keep me this place in good order. Do you heat, 

” 
nos aap 

Ami remind me to have = board done about trespassers and spring-guna, 
ued all that wort of thing, 10 keep the common people out. Do you hear, Hunt; 
te yon hear? 

1M mo Gorge Un, ar 

% 1 beg suut parton, slr,” sald the other man, advancing, with bis hand te 





‘6 Well, Witkin, what the matter with pou? * sald Captain Boldwig. 
‘A beg your parton, st; dat I Oink there have been trespassers here to-day * 











| # Hal” said the captain, scowling around him. 
“Yes, slr. ‘They have been dining here, I thisk, str.” 

“Why, damn thelr audacity! eo thoy hare," said Captain Bohterlg, we the cx wmbs 
Eos an chen sheen the grass met his eye. “They have beea 
Sooo gl nin oretvapse Twish had the vagabonds here!” said the 

the thick stick, 


“I wih T had the vagabond here! said the captain wrathfull. 
ty wie ald Wilkins; «but "— 

‘Bot wat? Eh?” ronred tow coptate; and, following the thald glance of 
‘Wilktas, lis eyes encountered the wheelbarrow and Mr. Pickwick, 
“Whore you, you rascal?” auld the captaln, adwministering several pokes to 
‘Mr. Pieckwick’s body with tho thick stick. “* What's your namo?" 

“Cold punch,” murmured Mr. Pickwick as he sunk to sleep again. 

“+ Whist ? demanded Captain Boldwig. 

‘No reply. 

“What did be say his mame was?” asked the captain, 

“Punch, I think, sir,” replied Wilkins. 

“Thats his tmpudence : that's hls confounded Impadenoo!” wld Captaln Bold 
wig. “Hes only feigning to be asleep now," aald the captain in w high passion. 
“Mo% arunk; lio’ & drunken plebeian. Wheel him away, Wilkins; wheel him 
sway directly.” 

“Where shall I whee! him to, sir?” inquired Wiikins with great timidgy. 

“Wrheel him to the Devil," replied Captain Boldwig. 


‘accordingly. 

“Wheel him!” said the captain,—‘* wheel him to the pound; and let us see 
‘whether he calls himself Punch when he comes to himself. He shall not bully 
sat: he shall not bully me! Wheel him away!” 

Awny Mr, Pickwick was wheeled in compliance with this tmpertous mandate; 
‘and the great Captain Boldwig, swelling with indignation, proceeded on his walk. 

-was the astonishment of the little party when they returned, to 
‘find that Mr. Pickwick had disappeared, and taken the wheelbarrow with his, 
‘Tr was the most mysterious and unaccountable thing that was ever heard of. Fora 
Jamie man to have got wpon bis legs without any previous notice, and walked off, 
‘would have been most extraordinary; but when it came to his wheeling a beavy 
‘barrow before him, by way of amusement, It grew positively miraculous. ‘They 
searched every nook and corner round, togvther and separately: they shouted. 
‘whistled, taughed, called, and all with the cane result. Mr. Pickwick was not 
to be found; and, after some hours of fruitiess search, they arrived at the unwel 
‘come conclusion, that they muat go home without him. 

“Meanwhile Mr. Pickwick tiad been wheeled to the pound, and saftly deposited 
therein. fast asleep in the wheelbarrow, to the immeasurable delight and satisfac 
tion, not oniy of all ya iv the village, but three-fourths of the whole popula- 
tion, who had gathered round in expectation of hix waking. If their moat In 
tenes grutifeation tad been awakened by secing him wheeled tn, how many 
‘aundred-fold was thelr joy Increased. when, after a few indistinet cries of “Sam! 
Std barrow, and gazed with indescribable astonishment on the faces 

‘before film | 

“A general shout was, of course, the signal of his having woke up; and his te 
voluntary loguiry of “What's the matter?" oocasloned another, louder than the 

deat, If powsible, 




















“Heros a game!” roared the populace. 

“Where ain 12" exclaimed Mr. Pickwick, 

“In the pound,” replied the mob. 

“How came I here? What was Tdolng? Where was T brought from?” 

“ Boldwig —Cap'ain Boldwig,” was the oaly reply. 

“Let me oct!" cried Mr, Pickwick, “Where's my servant? Where ars my 
friends ?"* 

“You aut got no friends, Hurrah!” And then there came turnip, and thes 
& potato, and then an egg, with » few other little tokens of the playful disposition 
of the many-headed. 

‘How long this scene might have lasted, or how much Mr. Pickwick might have 
suffered, no one can tell, hind not » earriage, which was driving swiftly by, sudden 
fy pulled up, from whence there descended old Wardle and Sam Weller, the for- 
mer of whom, in fir less time than {¢ takes to write {t, If not to read it, had made 
ils way to Mr, Pickwick’s side, and placed him In the vehicle, Just a tbe lat 
ter had concluded the third and Ist round of w single combat with the town 
deadle. 

* Run to the Justice's,” cried s dozen of roloes. 

“Ab, run nvay!” said Mr. Weller, Jumping up on the box. “Give my com. 
pliments— Sr. Veller's compliments —to the Justice, and tell him I?ve spoiled 
bis beadio, and that, if boil evear in ® new ‘an, (il come back agin to-morrow 
‘and spoil him, Drive on, old feller: 

“Dll give directions for the commencement of an action for false imprison 
ment against this Captain Boldwig directly I get to London," ¢aid Mr. Pickwick, 
‘8s 4000 as the carriage turned out of the town. 

«We were trespassing, it seems,” said Wardle. 

“I don't care,” sald Mr. Pickwick: ~41/M bring the action." 

“No, you won't,” sald Wardle, 

“Lwillby”— But, as there was a humorous expression in Wardle’s face, 
Mr. Pickwick checked himself, and said,“ Why not?” 

"Because," sald old Wardle, half bursting with laughter, because they might 
tarn round on some of us, and aay we had taken too much cold punch.” 

Do what he would, « «mile would come into Mr. Pickwick’s fuoe; the smile ex- 
tended {nto # laugh, tho laugh into w roar, and the roar became geueral. So, to 
keep up thelr good-humor, they stopped at the first roadside tavern they came 
to, and ordered a glase of brandy and water all round, with m magnum of extra 
strength for Mr, Samuel Weller. 


A serious trouble, however, is in store for Mr. Pickwick. One 
morning, his servant hands him a letter in a strange hand. 


“Tdon't know this hand," sald Mr, Pickwick, opening the letter, “Merey on 
ua} what's this? It must be njest: it—it—ean't be true” 

“What's the matter?” was the general inquiry, 

“Nobody dead, ts there?” said Wardle, alarmed at the horror in Mr. Pick 
wicks countenance. 

‘Mr. Pickwick made no reply, but puthing the letter acroes the table, and desin 
{ng Mr. Tupman to read tt aloud, fell back in his chalr with = look of vacant a» 
Jonlshment quite wlarming to behold. 

‘Mr. Tupman, with a trembling voles, read the letter, of which the following ts 
aoopyi— 











Ele Pcki'ck Papers 59 


Parecax's Corr, Commerit, Aug: 2 1500 
BARDELL. AGAXET PICKWICK. 

Sim, —Haying been fnstracted by Mrs. Martha Bardell to commence wn nection 
‘against you for a breach of promise of marriage, for which the plaintlf lays hee 
damages at fifteen hundred pounds, we beg to Inform you that writ has been it 
sued against you in this suit, in the Court of Common Mens; nud request to know, 
by return of post, the name of your attorney in London who will accept service 
tucreof, 

We are, sir, 
‘Your obedient servants, 
Dopson awn Fooo, 
Me. Samuel Phobvwick, 


‘Mr, Pickwick is for some time inclined to think the letter a joke 
merely; but he is reminded of the fact, that, on one occasion. he was 
seen with Mrs. Bardell in his arms, endeavoring to soothe her an- 
guish. Finding himself the * victim of circumstances,” and soeing 
that the case is likely to be a serious one, he secks his solicitor in 
London, who engages to retain Serjeant Snubbin, an advocate whois 
“at the very top of his profession,” and “leads the court by the nose.” 
‘The case comes on in due time; and, on the morning of the trial, Mr. 
Pickwick, being escorted into court, stands up in agitation, and takes 
a glance around him. 


There were already a pretty large sprinkling of spectators in the gallery, and m 
numerous muster of gentlemen In wigs in the barristers? seats, who presented, as 
‘a body, ail that pleasing and extensive variety of nose and whiskers for which tho 
bar of England is 0 Justly celebrated. Sach of the gentlemen as had got a brief 
to carry carried it iu a8 conspicuous ® manner ax postible, and occasionally 
scratched thelr noses therewith, to impress the fact more strongly on the observay 
‘tom of the epectators. Other gentlemen, who had no briefs to show, carried 
under thelr arms goodly octavos, with red Inbel behind, and that under-dane-ple- 
emust-colored cover, which Is technically known as*law calf." Others, who had 
neither briefs nor books, thrust their hands Into thelr pockets, and looked as wiee 
‘as they could. The whole, to tho great wonderment of Mr. Pickwick, were divided 
foto little groups, who were chatting, and discussing the news of the day in the 
‘most unfeeling manner possible, Just as if no trial at all were coming on. 

A loud ery of “Silence!” announced the entrance of the Judge, who was most 

short, and so fut, that he seemed all face and walstcout. He rolled in 
pon two little turned legs; and having bobbed to the bar, who bobbed to him, 
put his little legs underneath his table, and his little three-cornered hat upon its 
Keensation was then perceptible iu the body of the court; and immediately after- 
‘wards Mrs, Uardell, the plalutli. mpported by Mrs. Cluppins, her bosom-frlend 
number one, was led in ina drooping state. An extrasized umbrella wax then 
‘banded in by Mr. Dodson, and a pat- of pattens by Mr, Fogg (Dodson and Fogg 
teing the plalntii™ attorneys), each of whom had prepared @ aympathizing and 
uelancholy face for the occasion, Mrs. Sanders. bosom-frlend number two, then 
uppenred, leading In Master Bardell, whom she placed on the floor of the court In 
front of his hysterical mother, commanding position, in which he could not 
‘fall to awaken the aympathy of both Judge and jury. This was not done without 























0 She Michens ict 





ht 


sonsiderable opposition on the part of the young gentleman himself, who had 


“Lum for the plaluthf, my lord,” sald Mr. Serjeant Buzfuz. 
Counr.—* Who is with you, Brother Buxfuz?” 
Mr. Skimpin bowed, to intimate that he was. 
“T appear for the defendant, my lord,” sald Mr. Serjeant Snubbin. 
Courr.—“ Anybody with you, Brother Saubbin?” 
“Mr, Phunks, my Jord.” : 
Covnr.—“Go on.” 
Mr, Skimpln proceeded to “open the caso; and the caso mppeared to have 
‘very little inside it when he had opened {t, for he kept such particulars as he knew 
to himself. 


Serjeant Buxfox thon rose with all the majesty and dignity which the grave na 
ture of the proceedings demanded, and having whispered to Dodson, and conferred: 
briefly with Fogg, pulled his gown over his shoulders, settled bis wig, and ad> 
dressed the Jury, 

‘Serjoant Buszfue began by saying, that never, in the whole course of his profes- 
slonal experience, —nerer, from the very first moment of his mppllying himself to 
the study and practice of the law, had he approached # ease with such a heavy 
sense of the responsibility imposed upon him,—a responsibility he could never 
have supported, were he not buoyed up and sustained by # conviction, so strong 
that itamounted to positive certainty. that the eause of truth and Justice, or, in 
other words, the cause of his much-inured and most-oppreseed cllent, must pre- 
vail with the high-minded and intelligent dozen of men whom he now saw in that 
box before him. 

‘Counsel always begin In this way, because it puts the juryon the best terms 
with themeetres, and makes them think what sharp fellows thry must be. A visi- 
ble effect was produced immodiately; veveral Jurymen beginning to take volurnle 
nous noten. 

“You have heard from my learned friend, gentlemen,” contluned Serjeant 
Buxtuz, well knowing, that, from the learned friend alluded to, the gentlemen of 
the jury had heard nothing at all,—“ yon have heard from my learned friend, 
gentlemen, that this isan action for m breach of promise of marriage, in which 
the damages are laid at one thousand five hundred pounds. But you hare not 
heart from my learned friend, inustnuch w¥ it ald not come withia my learned 
friend's province to tell you, what are the facts and cireamsances of this case. 
‘Those frets and circumstances, gentlemen, you shall hear detailed by me, and 
proved by the unimpeachable female whom I will place In that box before you. 

“The plaintlif it a widow; yes, gentlemen, m widow, ‘The late Mr. Mardell, 
afer enjoying for many years the esteem and confidence of his sovereign, as one 
of the qusrdians of his roynl revenues, glided almost imperceptibly from the 
World to seek elsewhere for that repove and peace which e oustom-house ean never 
afford." 

‘This was a pathetic description of the decease of Mf. Bardell, who nd been 
knocked on the head with a quart-pot In a publie-house cellar. 

“Some time before Mr. Bardell’s death he had stamped his Hkeness upon a It 
Heboy. With this little boy, the only pledge of her departed exciseman, Mra. 
Bardell shrunk from the world, and courted the retirement and tranquillity of Gos 
‘well Street; nnd here she placed fa her front-parlor window a written placard 
cenring this inseription; ‘Apartments furnished for a single gentleman. Inquire 
within!” Here Serjesnt Buzfuz paused, while several gentlemen of the Jury 
took a note of the docement. 





Ebe Pchwick Papers. 61 


“There is no date to that, is thero, sir?” inquired a juror. 

“There ia no date, geatlemen ; but Fam instructed to xay that It was put in the 
Pinintiit's parior-window just this time three years. Now E entreat the attention 
Df the jury to the wording of this document: ‘Apartments furnished for a single 
gentleman’! ‘Mr, Bardell,’ raid the widow, —*Mr, Bardelt was a man of houor; 
Mr. Bardell was «man of his wont; Mr. Bardell was no deceiver; Mr, Bardell was 
once a aingle gentleman himself; a single gentlemen I shall perpetually eee 
something to remind me of what Mr. Bardell was when he first won my young 
and untried affections; to a single gentleman shall my lodgings be let? Actuated 
by this Beautiful and touching impale (amoug the best Impulses of our Imperfect 
mature, gentlemen), the desolate widow dried her tears, furnished her firet tloor, 
‘taught her iunocent boy to her maternal bosom, and put the bill up In her parlor» 
‘window, Did it remain therelong? No. Before the bili had been ia the parlor 
‘winds w three days, —three days, gentlemen,—a being erect upon two legs, and 
‘bearing all the ontward semblance of m man, and not of m monster, knocked mt 
Mrs, Bardell’s door. He inquired within; he took the lodgings; and on the tery 
‘ext day he entered into possession of thera, ‘This man was Mekwlck,—Pick- 
wiekthe defendant.” 

Serjeant Buzfux here paused for breath, ‘The silence awoke Mr. Justioe Stare 
Jeigh, who immediately wrote down something with a pen without any fnk in tt, 
‘und looked unusually profound, to fmpress the Jury with the belief that he always 
‘thought mont deeply with hls eyes shut. 

“Of this man Pickwick I will say little: the subject presents but few attrac 
tions; aud T, gentlemen, am notthe man, nor are you, guntlemen, the men, to de- 
light in the contemplation of revolting heartlessness and of systematic villany.” 

‘Here Mr. Pickwick, who had been writhing in silence, gave a violent start,as if 
tome vague ides of assaulting Serjeunt Buxfuz, in the august presence of Justios 
and law, suggested itself to his mind. 

“Tsay systematic villany, gentlemen,” sald Serjeant Buzfaz, looking through 
Mr. Pickwick, and talking af him; “and, when I say systematic villany, let me tell 
the defendant, Pickwiek.—if he be in court, as Iam informed he ts,—that it 
‘would have been more decent in him, more becoming, in better Judgment, and in 
‘Detter torte, if he hnd stopped away. 

“«T shiall show you, gentlemen, that, fortwo years, Pickwick continued to reside, 
without interruption or intermission, nt Mrs. Bardell’s house. I shall ehow you, 
that on many occasions ho gave halfpence, and on some occasions even sixpences, 
toher little boy; and I shall prove to you, by a witness whose testimony it 
‘Will be imposalble for my learned friend to weaken or controvert, that, on one oo 
tasion, be patted the boy on the head, and, after inyuiring whether he had wou 
any alley fors ox commoneye lately (both of which I understand (o be @ particular 
species of marbles much prized by the youth of this town), made use of this re- 
markable expression: * How should you like to have another father?? I shall 
prove to you, gentlemen, on the testhmony of throe of his own friends, — mot 
Snwilling witnesses, gentlemen, moxt unwilling witnesses, —that on that marn- 
‘Ing he was discovered by them holding the plaintlif in his arms, and soothing her 
agitation by hls earesses and endearments. 

* And now, gentlemen, but one word more. Two lotters hare paased between 
these parties, —letters which ars admitted to be in the handwriting of the defend- 
‘ant, Let mo read the firet;—* Garraway’s, twelve o'clock. Dear Mrs. B.—Chops 
and tomato-suuce. Yours, Pickwick. Gentlemen, what does this mean? 
(Chops! Gracious hearens! and tomato-aauce! Gentlemen, és the happiness of a 
wns'tirs and confiding female to be trifled away by vuch shallow artillews as these t 

6 














mm 


62 Ede Dickens Wictlonary. 


‘The next has no date whatever, which ls In iteelf suspicious. * Dear Mrs. B., 1 
shall not be st home till to-morrow. Slow cosch.’ And then follows this very re 


#0 earnestly entreated not to agitate herself sbout this warming-pan, unless It is, 
i otelnay sc ears ok Bresreckes: Sooke penned some @n- 
dearing word or promise, ngreeably to a proconcerted system of correspondence, 
artfully contrived by Plokwick with a view to lis contemplated desertion, and 
‘which Tam not in a condition to explain? 

“Enough of thts, My clivat's hopes and prospects are ruined. But Pickwick, 

— Vickwiok, the ruthless destroyer of this domestic oasis inthe desert 

‘of Goswell Strvet, — Pickwick, who has choked up the woll, and thrown aahes om 

the award, — Pickwick, who comes before you to-day with hls heartless tomato 

sauce and warming-pans,— Pickwick still rears his head with unblashing effrons 

tory, aud gazes without a sigh on the rufa he has made, Damages, gentlemen, 

heavy damages, aro the only punishment with which you ean ylait him, the only 

Tecompense you cau award to my client. And for those damages she now appeals 

toan enlightened, a high-minded, a right-feeling, a conscieatious, adispassionate, 
‘eaympathizing, a contemplative Jury of her elrillzed countrymen.” 

‘With this beantiful peroration, Mr. Serjesnt Buzfus eat down, and Mr, Justios 
Starcleigh woke np. 

+ Call Milzabeth Cluppins," sald Serjeant Buzfus, rising « minute afterwards, 
with renewed vigor. 

“Do you recollect, Mr¥. Clapplas,—do you recollect betng in Mrs. Bardeli's 
Yack one pair of stairs on one particular morning 1a July last, when she was dust- 
Ang Vickwick’s npartment ?” 

“Yes, my lord and Jury, To.” 

Sr, Plokwlok’s sitting-room was the first-floor front, T believe? ™ 

“ Yes, it were, sir.” 

Counr.—" What were you dolng In the backroom, ma’am ?”” 

“My Jord and Jury, I will not deosive you," 

Count, —* You had better not, mavam.” 

“Twas there anbeknown to Mra. Bardell. Thad been out with» little basket, 
fentlemen, to buy three pound of red kidney purtaties, which was three pound 
tuppense ha'penny, when Taco Mrs. Bardell’s street door on the Jar.” 

‘Courr. —* On the what?” 

“Partly open, my lord." 

Counr.—* She said on the Jar” 

* It's all the same, my lord." 

‘The little judge looked doubtful, and «aid he ‘d make » note of {t, 

“Twalked in, gentlemen, just to say good-mnornin’, and went In m permiscuows 
manner up ateirs, and Into the backroom. Gentlemen, there wae the sound of 
rolces In the front-room, and” — 

And you listened, I believe, Mre. Cluppins ?” 

“ Heggin’ your pardon, sir, 1 would scorn the baction, ‘The voloes was very 
food, sir, and foreed themselves upon my ear” 

Mrs. Cluppins. you were not listening, But you heard the voles, Waa 
vroloee Pickwiok’s?™ 

© Yes, It were, ai 

And Mrs. Clappins, after distinctly stating that Mr. Pickwick addressed himsei? 
fo Mrs, Bardell, repented by slow degrees, and by dint of many questions, the 
woreraation she had heard. Which, like many other conversations repeated am 








She Pickwick B, 





rs. 63 


er vach clroumstances, or, Indeed, like many other converastions repeated under 
Se ae possible importance in itself, 
‘Mrs. Clappins, 


‘way proceeded to inform the court that she was the mother of eight children at 
‘that present speaking, and that she entertained confident expectations of 

tng Mr. Clapping with a ninth somewhere about that day alx months. At this 
_ literesting potnt, the little Judge interpoeed most irascibly; and the worthy lady 
"was taken out of court. 

“Nathaniel Winkle! sald Mr. Skimpin, 

“Here!” Mr, Winkle entered the witnese-box, and, haring been duly swarm, 
bowed to tho judge, who acknowledged the compliment by saying, — 

‘Counr, —" Don’t look at me, sir; look at the Jury." 

Me. Winkle obeyed the mandate, and looked at the place where he thought the 
dary might be. 

‘Mr. Winkle was then examined by Mr. Skimpin. 

“Now, str, have the goodness to let bis lordship and the jury know what your 
‘nani 4s; will you?” Mr. Skimpin fnelined his head on one aide, and lstened with 
rear sharpness for the nnswer, as if to imply that he rather thought Mr. Win 
le’s natural taste for perjury would induce him to give some name which did not 








belong to him, 
Winkle." 
Covrr.—“Have you any Christian name, sir?” 
“Nathaniel, sir” 
Courr.—“ Daniel,—any other name?” 


Nathaniel, sir, my lord, I moan." 
Covnr.—:"' Nathaniel Daniel, of Dante! 
“No, my lord, only Nathaniel; not Daniel at all.” 
Covnr.—* What did you tell me it was Daniel for, theny alr?” 
“Tid w°t, my ford.” 

Cownr.—“You did, str. How could I have got Daniel on my notes unless you 
told me so, sir?” 

“Mr. Winkle has rather a short memory, my lord: we shall find means to re 
frosh it before we have quite done with him, daresay. Now, Mr. Winkle, attend 
tome, if you please, alr; and let me recommend you to be careful. I believe you 
‘are a particular friend of Pickwick the defendant; are you not? 

“TL have known Mr. Pickwick now, as well as T recollect at this moment, 
carly” — 

“Pray, Mr, Winkle, de not evade the question. Are you, orare you not, a par 
Healar friend of tho defendant's?” 

was Junt about to any that” — 

Will you, or will you not, answer my question, sir?” 

Coven.—“If you dow’t answer the question, you ‘ll be committed to prison, 
an 

“Yeu: Tam” 

“Yes; youre. And could n't you say that st once, slr? Perhaps you know the 
Walnsifl too? Eh, Mr. Winkle?” 

*Kdon't know her; but I've xen her.” 

“Ot you don’t know her; bur you *ve seen he: Now hare the goodness to tell 
the gestiemen of the Jury what you mean by that, Mr. Winkle” 

“A imean that fem not intimate with ber, but that I have seen her when J went 
\o call om Mr. Pickwick in Goswell Street.” 























64 Ebe Dickens Dictlonacy. 


“How often have you seen her, ale?” 
“How often?” 
“Yea, Mr. Winkle, how often? I‘ repeat the question for you & doven 


air ay eee ee ee 


‘aked whether be hed n't seen her a hundred times; whether he could n't sweag 
that he had seen her more than fifty times; whether he did n°t kuow that he bad 
ween her at least sereuty-fve times; and so forth. 

“ Pray, Mr. Winkle, #9 you remember calling on the defendant Pickwick, at 
these apartments im the plalatiff’s house in Goswell Street, on one particular 
morning i the month of July last?” 

“Yes; No" 

“Were you accompanied on that occasion by a friend of the name of Tupman, 
und another of the name of Snodgrass?” 

“Yes; Twas? 

Ave they bere?” 

Yeu; they sre," tooking rery earnestly towards the spot where his friends 
were atiead. 
© Pray atbend tome, Mr. Winkle, and never mind your friends,” wit an ex- 
pressive look at the Jury, ‘They must tell their stories without any previons eon- 
‘sakation with yoa, nome has yet taken place" (another lookat the jury). “Now, 
tir, tell the gentlowen of the Jury what you saw on entering the defendant's 
room ca this partiewlar moruing. Come, out with It, oir: we must have it sooner 
ecbter” 

The defeedtant, Mr, Pickwick, was holding the plaintiff (m bis arms, with his 
ams clasping leer walat; and the plaintiff appeared to have falnted away.” 

© Dal yo boar the defendant say any thing?” 

deard him call Mes. Barvell a good creature; and I heard him ask her to 
sumpose herself, foe what a situation it was if anybody should come, —or words 
to that eset.” 

=Now, Mr, Winkle, [ hare only one more question toask you. Will you under. 
take to swenr that Pickwiek the defendant did not say,on the occasion In ques 
om, “My dear Mrs. Bantoll, you "re a good creature; compose yourself to this alt- 
cation, foe Wo this situation you must come,’ —or words to thad effect ?”” 

“T= Ldbd Wt understand him eo certainly. Iwas on tho stairease, and could 
aN hear dintinetly : the linpressice om my mind is” — 

“The gentlemen of the Jury want Bowe of the impressions on your mind, Mr. 
Whnkde, whied I fear, would be of hittle service to howest, straightforward men. 
‘Con were om th Htalrease, and lid n't distinetly hear; bat you will not swoar that 
SPkwhok did mot make we of the expressions I hare quoted? So I understand 


aah 

Nios Kw mot? 

++ You way ivare the box, sir. 

‘Tyee Tupmenn and Augurtes Soedgracs were severally called Into the cox: 
WHR cueredorated tbe tostimemy of their unhappy friend; sod each was driven te 
ee Wenge of deaporathin by excessive badgering. 

‘Sweawnah Sanders war then called, and examined by Sexjeant Buzfuz, and 
Aeosrennmitund hy Secjomet Suubbin, Had aluays said and believed that Pick- 
‘plea woeld warty Mrs. Bardell, Knew that Mrv. Bardetl’s being ongaged to Picts 














She Pickinick Papers. 





wick was the current tople of conressation In the neighborhood after tho fainting 
InJoly. Hd heard Pickwick ask the little boy how he should like to have anoth 
‘er father. Did pot know that Mrs. Bardell was at that time keeping company 
‘with the baker, but did know that the baker was then s ingle man, and is now 
married. Thought Mrs. Bardell fainted away on the morning in July, because 
Plekwick asked her to name the day; knew that she (witness) falnted away atone 
dead when Mr. Sanders asked Aer to name the day, and belleved that anybody as 
called herself s indy would do the same under similar ciroumstances. During the 
yerlod of her keeping company with Mr. Sanders, she had received love-letters, 
Uke other ladies. In the courve of thelr correspondence Mr. Sanders had often 
‘alled hers “duck;" but he had never called her “chops,” nor yet “tomato: 
anon 

‘Serjeant Buzfux now rose with more importance than he had yet exhibited, 1f 
that were possible, and aafd, “Call Samuel Weller.” 

‘Ie was quite unnecessary to call Samuel Weller; for Samuel Weller stepped 
into the box the instant his name was pronounced; and placing hie hat or the 
floor, and his arms on the rail, took a bird's-eye view of the bar and a compreben- 
alve survey of the bench, with a remarkably cheerful and lively aspect. 

Cover. —“ What 's your name, air?" 

“Sam Weller, my lord.” 

Cover. —“ Do you spell {t with a ‘'V,’ or with aw?” 

“That depends upon the taste and fancy of the speller, my lord. I never had 
‘occasion to spell it more than once or twice in my life; but I spells it with a¢V/" 

‘Mere a voice in the gallery exclaimed, “Quite right too, Samivel; quite right. 
ny daciamaprin he ge Saher Seep tad 

‘Courr.—“ Who is that who dares to address the court? Usher.” 

“Yes, my lord." 

‘Covnr.—“ Bring that person here instantly.” 

“Yea, my lont” 

Bot, as the usher did n't find the person, he did n't bring him; and, after a great 
‘commotion, all the people who had got up tolook for the culprit sat down again, 
‘The little Judge turned to the wituess as soon as his Indignation would allow him 
to speak, and said,— 

Cover. —“ Do you know who that was, air?™ 

* Trayther suspect it war my father, my lord” 

Courr.—" Do you sce him here now?” 

‘Sam stared up Into the Inntern tn the roof of the court, and sald, “Wy, no, 
my lord, I can’t eay that I do eee him at the present moment.” 

‘Courr. —“«If you could have pointed him out, I would have sent him to Jail 

” 








Sam bowed his acknowledgments. 

“Now, Mr. Weller,” said Serjeant Buzfuz. 

“Now, alr” 

‘** [believe you are tn the service of Mr. Pickwick, the defendant in this case. 
Speak up, if you please, Mtr. Weller.” 

“Tmean fo «peak up, slr. I am tn the service ° that ‘ere gen'i'man, and = 
ery good service It Is” 

“Little to do, and plenty to got, I suppose?” 

“Ohi quite enough to get, «ir, a4 the soldier sa'd ven they ordered him three 
‘wundred and fifty lashes.” 

‘Court.—“You must not tell ux what the soldier sald, unless the soldier it 
‘wcourt, and ts examined in the usual way it 's not evidence.” 

Lod 


eS) Sy a ee =e > See a Sle eR ae Ge Tiel, eb, 
= 


Ne en 
ea ee” 

ee SE pe Wek Ser me SG praise of the hon- 
oe ee Re, See ant Tgp Se ater Sor the plalatldf, Aid 
— 

~ So ee TE oe ig I Tas o/ them te Rave taken up the 
—— eh RY ania as all Se eves unless they got ‘em out of 
> o—_— 

<2 eee eee, sae eek, acteempting tm get af any evidence through the 
ete ee Sa wren. I will mat trouble the court by eaking him 
eee ce, Semen i Tet my cae, sy lord” 


Sent eka Seer ie Jury um bedalf of tho defendant, and ald 
eee eee >. Deteweek; all the best, as everybody knows, could do 


——_ . 
Dect Seewteigh momen ap fs the old-entablished form. He read as 


ee eS mee Wen Jury an Sew coma deviphes om 20 short a notice; he did a 
je cond BY make oat ; and be made running comments ov 


=e 
ee ee ee eg Bandell were rig't, it was perfectly c'eet 











Sde Pichwiek Papers. 


Mr. Pickwick was wrong, and, If they thought the evidence of Mrs. Cluppins wor: 
thy of credence, they would believe it; and if they didn’t, why, they would n't. 

‘The jary then retired to thelr private room to talk the matter over, wad the Judge 
retired to Ais private room to refresh himself with a mutton-chop and a glass of 
sherey. 


‘An anxious quarter of an hour elapsed; the Jury came back; and the Judge was 
‘Stched in. Mr, Pickwick put on his spectacles, and gazed at the foroman, 

“Gentlemen, are you all agreed upon your verdict ?” 

© Weare 

Stoo ros tal fa is petit, ntlemen oe Sa Uafdend?™” 


‘fifty pounds. 

Mr. Pickwick took aif his spectacles, carefully wiped the glasses, folded them 
Into tho caso, aud pat thom in bis pocket; then having drawn on his gloves with 
‘great nicety, aud atared at the foreman all the while, he mechanically followed Mr. 
Porker and the blue bag out of court, 

‘Thoy stopped in a side-room while Perker paid the court-focs; and here Mr. 
Pickwick was Joined by his friends. Here, too, he encountered Messrs. Dodson 
wod Fogg, rabbing their hands with every token of outward satisfaction, 

“ Well, gentlemen,” sald Mr. Pickwick. 

“Well, sir,” sald Dodson, for self and partner. 

“You imagine you 'll gut your costs; don’t you, gentlemen?” sald Mr. Plckwiek. 

‘Fogg said they thought it rather probable; and Dodson smiled, and sald they" 


“You may try and try, and try agnin, Messrs, Dodson and Fogg,” eald Me. 
Pickwick vehemently; ~bat not one farthing of costs or damages do you ever get 
from me, if EL xpund the rext of my existence in a debtor's prison,” 

“Ha, ha!” said Dodson, “ you ‘ll think botter of that before next term, Br. 
Pickwick” 


“Ike, ut, hot we ‘il xoon soe about that, Mr. Pickwick,” grinned Fomg- 
‘Speechless with indignation, Mr, Pickwick allowed himscif to bo led by his soll- 
‘hiur and friends to the door, and there assisted into a huckney-coach, which had 
‘been fetched for the purpose by the evor-watchful Sam Weller. 
‘Sam had put up the steps, and was preparing to Jump on the box, when he felt 
‘gently touched on the shoulder; and his father stood before him. 

4 Samirel, the gov'nor ought to have boon got olf with aalleybl. Ve got Tom 
‘Vildspark off o that ‘ere manslaughter (that come of hard driving), vith a alleybl, 
‘ven all the big vigs to a man sald as nothing could n't save him. I know'd whas 
‘ud come 0” this here way 0’ doin’ bisniss, © Sammy, Sammy! ry worn’t there a 
siteybe? 

‘Mr. Pickwick sticks to his determination, and goes to prison. Sam 
Weller, desperate at being separated from his master, borrows twenty- 
five pounds of his father, whom he gets to arrest him for debt, and 
40 follows Mr. Pickwick, 

‘Moesrs. Dodson and Fogg, having got a cognovit from Mrs. Bardell, 
after the trial, for the amount of costs, by representing that it was a 
mere matter of form, take her in execution for them, and send her 
also to the Flect. Hore she meets Mr. Pickwick, who, finding that 








6B She Mickeus Mictlonarg. 


noboily can release her from that den of wretchedness but himself, 
and that he can only do so by paying the entire costs of the suit 
(both of plaintiff and defendant), and being also moved to the same 
course by divers other good reasons, pays them, and sets both him- 
self and Mrs. Bardell at liberty; whereupon Sam Weller procures 
from his attorney a formal discharge, which his pradent papa has 
had the foresight to leave in the hands of that gentleman to be 
used in any case of emergency, 

Mr. Pickwick having, not long afterwards, withdrawn from the 
club bearing his name (which circumstance, coupled with others, 
occasions its dissolution), determines to settle down at Dulwich. 
He sees all his young friends happily married, including the devoted 
Sam Weller, who takes to himself a wife, who is installed as Mr. 
Pickwick’s housekeeper. And thus Mr. Pickwick’s biography ter- 
minates while the “sunshine of the world is blazing full upon 
him.” 

Pipkin, Nathaniel. The “Parish Clerk” in Mr. Pickwick’s tale 
of that name. He is a harmless, good-natured little being, of a 
very nervous temperament, and with a cast in his eye and a halt in 
his gait. He fulls in love with the beautiful Maria Lobbs, but sees 
her married to another. (Ch. xvii.) 

Podder, Mr, A member of the All-Muggleton Cricket Club. 
(Ch. vii.) 

Pott, Mr. Editor of “The Eatanswill Gazette.” (Ch. xiii, xv, 
xviil.) 

Pott, Mrs. Wife of the editor of “The Eatanswill Gazette.” 
(Ch. xiii, xv, xvill, li.) 

Price, Mr. A coarse, vulgar young man, with a sallow face and a 
harsh voice; a prisoner for debt, whom Mr. Pickwick encounters 
in the “offee-room” of the sponging-house in Coleman Street. 
(Ch. x1.) 

Pruffle, A servant to a scientific gentleman at Bath. (Ch. xxix.) 

Raddle, Mr. Husband to Mrs, Raddle. (Ch. xxxii, xlvi.) 

Raddle, Mrs. Mary Ann. Mr. Bob Sawyer's landlady; sister 
to Mos. Clapping, and a thorough shrew. (Ch. xxxii, xlvi.) 

Rogers, Mrs. A lodger at Mrs. Bardell’s. (Ch. xlvi-) 

Roker, Mr. Tom, A turnkey at the Flect prison. (Ch. xl-xlv.) 

Bam. Acabdriver. (Ch. ii.) 

Sanders, Mrs. Susannah. A bosom-friend of Mrs, Bardell’s 
(Ch. xvi, xxxiv,) 




















She Pickwleh Papers, oo 


Bawyer, Bob. A medical student whom Mr. Pickwick meets at 
Mr. Warile’s, He afterwards hangs out his sign (Sawyer, late 
Nockemorf) as a medical practitioner, in Bristol, where Mr, Win- 
kle meets him. Ho has a very nice place; but “half the draws 
have got nothing in ’em, and the other half don’t open." Indeed, 
hardly any thing real in the shop but the leeches; and they aro 
second-hand.” Mr. Sawyer keeps a boy, whose duties are thus 
deseribed : — 

++ He goes up to house, rings the area-bell, pokes a packet of medicine with 
‘out « dircetion into the servant's hand, and walks off. Serrant takes |t into the 
Micing-parlor; master opens It, and reads the label: ‘Draught to be taken at 
‘bed-time ; pills as before; lotion ax usual; the powder, From Sawyer’s, late 
Nockemorf's. Physicians? prescriptions carefully prepared? and all the rest 
‘of ft. Shows it tohis wife; she reads the label. It goes down to the servants; 
they read the tabel. Next day tho boy calls: “Very sorry—his mistake— 
{immense business — great many parcels to deliver —~ Mr. Sawyer’e compliments 
Inte Nockemorf" ‘The name gets known; and that’s the thing, my doy, in 
‘the medical way. Bless your heart, old fellow, it's better than all the advertising 
inthe world! We have got one fourouncs bottle that's been to half the houses 
tu Bristol, and has m't done yet”. . . 

“The lamp-lighter has elghteon pevoo & week to pull the nlght-bell for ten 
minutes every time he comes round; and my boy always rushes into church just 
‘before the pralms, when the people hare got nothing to do but look about Yen, 
‘und calls me out, with horror and dismay depicted on his countenance, * Bless 
my soul! everybody says, ‘somebody taken suddenly itl. Suwyer, late Nockem- 
‘orf, sent for, What u buriness that young man hast?" 


(Ch. xxx, xxii, xxxviil, xlviii, l-lii.) See Horknss, Jack. 
Shepherd, The. See Sriccixs, Tux Revanexy Mn. 
Simmery, Frank, Esq. A smart young stock-broker. (Ch. lv.) 
Simpson, Mr. A prisoner in the Flect. (Ch. xlii.) 

Skimpin, Mr. Junior counsel with Serjeant Buzfuz for Mrs. Bar- 
dell, in her suit against Mr. Pickwick. (Ch. xxiv.) See Pick- 
wick, Samos. 

Blammer, Doctor. Surgeon of the Ninety-seventh Regiment, 
present at a charity ball at the Bull Inn, Rochester. The slim 
‘Mr, Jingle and the stout Mr. Tupman desire to attend the same 
ball; but Mr. Jingle happens not tohave a change of clothing. He 
therefore induces Mr. Tupman (although they are comparative 
strangers) to borrow a suit belonging to Mr, Winkle, who haa been 
indalging too freely in wine at tho table, and has fallen fast asleep. 
“Mr. Jingle, being a very wide-awake and piausible person, makes a 
Mlecided impression on an elderly and wealthy widow-lady, who is the 
object of Doctor Slammer’s unremitting attention, 


— 














mM She Dickens Mictlonary. 


‘Upon the doctor and the widow the eyes both of Mr. Tupman and his com 
panion hae been fixed for some time, when the stranger broke silence, 
Me girl — pompous doctor — not a bad idea — good fun.* 
sentences which issued from bis lips, Mr. Tupinan looked 
Tngoaevely tu hie tess 


1 dance with the widow,” sald the stranger. 

“Who is she?” inquired Mr. Tupman, ; 

“Dow't know—never saw her in all my’ iffo—cut out the doctor —here 
oon.” And the stranger forthwith crossed the room; and, leaning against @ 
mantle-plece, commenced gazing with an alr of respectful and melancholy a> 
wiration on the fat countenance of the little old lady. Mr. Tupman locked on 
fm mute astonishment. The stranger progressed rupidly, ‘The little doctor danced 
with another Indy—the widow dropped her fan; the stranger picked It up, and 
presented {t,—m smile, a bow, a courtesy, a few words of conversation. The 
stranger walked boldly up to, and returned with, the master of the ceremonies, 
a little introductory pantomime, and the stranger and Mrs. Budger took thelr 
places in a quadzille, 

‘The surprise of Mr, Tupman at this summary proceeding, great ax tt was, 
was immeasurably excoeded by the astonishment of the doctor. The stranger 
‘was young, and the widow was flattered. The doctor’s attentions were unheed- 
ed by the widow; nnd the doctor’s indiguation was wholly Jost on bis Imper- 
turbable rival. Doctor Slammer was paralysed. He, Doctor Slammer of the 
Ninoty-seventh, to be extinguished In a moment by a man whom nobody had 
ever seen before, and whom nobody knew even now. Doctor Slammer,—Doo- 
tor Slammer of the Ninety-seventh rajected! Impossible! It could not bet 
‘Yes, {t was: there they were, What! Introducing his friend! Could he bellere 
his eyes! He tooked again, and was under the painful neceselty of ndmitting 
the yoracity of his optics. Mra. Budger was dancing with Mr. Tracy Tupman: 
there was no mistaking the fact, ‘There wns the widow before him, bouncing 
bodily here and there with unwonted vigor; and Mr. Tracy Tupman hopping 
about with a face expressive of the most Intense solemnity, dancing (as a good 
‘many people do) us {fa quadrille were not a thing to be laughed at, but = severe 
‘lal to the feolings, which lt requires inflexible resolution to encounter. 

Silently and patiently did the doctor bear all this, andall the handings of nogus, 
‘and watching for glasses, and darting for biscuits, and coquetting, that ensued 
but, a fow seconds after the stranger had disappeared to lead Mrs. Budger to her 
carriage, ho darted swiftly from the room, with every particle of his hitherto-bot- 
tled-up indignation effervescing from all parts of Lis countenance, in w perepira- 
tion of passion. 

‘The stranger was returning, snd Mr. Tupman was beside him, We spoke ins 
Jow tone, and laughed. ‘The little doctor thirsted for his life. He wns exulting, 
We had triumphed 

“Sir!” said the doctor In nn ayful voice, producing « card, and retiring Intoar 
angle of the passage, “my namo is Slammer, Doctor Slammer, slr Ninety 
seventh regiment —Chatham Barracks—my card, lr, my card.” He would have 
added more; but hie indignation choked him, 

“Ah!” replied the stranger coolly, “ Slammer—much obliged —polite atten 
Hon —not Ill now, Slasimer—but when I am—knock you up." 

 You—you ‘re a shulllor, sir,” gasped the furious doctor, "a poltroon, » cow: 
wd, a liar, a will nothing Induce you to give me your card, alr?” 

“oni id the stranger, hnif aside, “negus too strong here—lberm 
‘andiord — very foolish —very —lemonade much better—hot rooms elderly get» 

















The Pickwick Papers Tl 


Meman—suiler for it In the morning—cruel ~cruel;* and he moved on a step 
or two. 

‘+ Yeu are stopping In this house, alr,” sald the indignant little man: you are 
lotoxteated now, sir; you snall bear from me tn the morning, sir. I shall Gud you 
ou” 

“Rather you found me out than found mo at home,” replied the unmoved 


Doctor Slammer looked unutterable ferocity as he Axed his hat on his head 
‘whch an, tndignant knock; and the stranger and Mr. Tupman ascenied to the 
‘bedroom of the latter to restore the borrowed plumage to the unconscious Wo 
ae. 


‘That gentleman was fast asleep: the restoration was soon made, ‘The stranger 
‘was extremely Jocose; and Mr. Tracy Tupman, being quite bewildered with wine, 
opnorees ladies, thought the whole affair an exquisite joke. His new 

friend departed; and after experiencing some slight difficulty in finding the orl- 

Colonie ses aurea originally intended for the reception of his head, und finally 

his candlestick in his struggles to put it on, Mr. Tracy Tupman man- 

aged to got into bed by s series of complicated evolutions, and shortly afterwards 
sank tuto repose. 


Early on the following morning, inquiry is made at the inn for a 
gentleman wearing a bright blue dress-coat with a gilt button with 
*P.C.’0n it; and as Mr. Winkle answers to the description, he is 
awakened out of a sound sleep, dresses himself hastily, and goes down 
stairs to the coffee-room. 


Ax officer in undress uniform was looking out of the window. He turned 
round as Mr. Winkle entered, and made a stiff inclination of the head. Having 
ordered the attendants to retire, and closed the door very carefully, be said, 
“Mr. Winkle, I presume?” 

“My name ds Winkle, air." 

You will not be surprised, slr, whon I inform you that I hare called here this 
morning on behalf of my friend, Doctor Slammer of the Nincty-seventh.” 

“Doctor Slammer!" anid Mr. Winkle. 

“Doctor Slammer, He begged me to express his opinion, that your conduct of 
ast evening wns of a description which no gentieman could enduie, and (he 
‘sdided) which no one gentleman would puraue towards another.” 

‘Mr, Winkle’s mstonlshment was too real and too evident toescape the observa 
tion of Doctor Slammor’s friend: he therefore proceeded. “My friend, Doctor 
‘Blammer, ‘me to add, that he is firmly persuaded you were Intoxicated 
‘during @ portion of the evening, and possibly unconsclous of the extent of the 
‘fneult you were guilty of. fe commissioned me to say, that, should this be pleaded 
‘a4 an excuse for your behavior, he will consent to accept a written apology, to be 
penned by you from my dictation.” 

“A written mpology!” repeated Mr, Winkle in the most emphatle tone of 
smazement possible. 

Of sears yoa know the alternative,” replied the risitor ooolly, 

“Were you infrusted with this message to me by name?” inquired Mr. Wine 
Rie, whose Intellects were hopelessly confused by this extraordinary converam 
don. 


“Twas not present myself," repliod the visiter; “and, n consequence of your 
‘tr refusal to give your card to Doctor Slamime., © was desired by that gentiemca, 





of 


to identify the wearer of a very uncommon coat, —m bright blandresy-coat, with « 





{chens D(ctlonarg. 


the head of the party; and he at once referred me to you.” 

If the principal tower of Rochester Custie had suddenly walked from its founds 
fou, and stationed itself opposite the coffee-room-window, Mr. Winkle’s surpris¢ 
‘would have been as nothing, compared with the profound astonishment with 


stolen. “ WHl you allow me to detain you one moment?” said he, 

“Certainly,” replied the unweleome visitor. 

Mr. Winkle ran hastily up stairs, and with a trembling hand opened the bag. 
‘There was the cont in its usual place, but exhibiting, on ® close inspeetion, evident 
tokens of having been worn on the preceding night. 

“Tt must be #0," sald Mr. Wink! 
too much wine after dinner, and hav 








‘Mr. Winkle retraced lis steps in the direction of the coffee-room, with the gloomy 
j ‘and dreadful resolve of acoepting the challeage of the warlike Dootor ame, 
and abiding by the worst consequences thut might ensue, 

"To this determination Mr. Wiakle was urged by avarlety of considerations; the 
first of which was his repatation with the club, He had always been looked up to 
as & high anthority on oll matters of amuremont and dexterity, whether offensive, 
defensive, or inoffensive; and if, on this very first oceaslon of being put to the 
teat, ie shrunk back from the trial, beneath his leader's eye, his name and stand> 
a Ing wore lost forever, Besides, bo remembered to hare heard it frequently 

surmised by the uninitiated ia such matters, that, by an understood 

‘between the sceonds, the platolx were seldom loaded with ball; and, furthermore, 
* ‘he reflected, that if he applied to Mr. Snodgrass to act as his second, and depicted 

the danger in glowing terms, that gentleman might possibly communicate the 

{ntelligence to Mr. Pickwick, who would certainly lose no timo in transmitting 

it to the local aathorities, and thus prevent the killing or maiming of lis fol- 


lower. 

Such were his thoughts when he returned to the coffee-room, and intimated kis 
intention of accepting the doctor’s challenge. .. . 

‘That morning's breakfast parsed heavily off. Mr, Tupinan was not in a condi- 
tion to rise after the unwouted dissipation of the previous night; Mr, Snodgrass 
‘Appeared to labor under poetical depression of spirits; and even Mr. Pickwick 
trinced an unusual attachment to sllenos and aodu-water, Mr. Winkle eagerly 
Watched his opportunity. It was not long wanting. Mr. Snodgrass propored « 
fisit to the castle; and, as Mr. Winkle was the only other member of the party dix 
soved to walk, they went ont together, 

“Snodgrass,” said Mr. Winkle when they had tarned out of the public street, — 
* Snodgrass, my dear fellow, can I rely upon your pecreey?” As he sald this, be 
most devoutly and earnestly hoped he could not. 

™ You can,” repilied Mr. Snodgrass. Hear me swear” — 

+ No, not” Intorrupted Winklo, territied at the idea of his companton’s uncom 
‘selonsly pledging himself not to give information, “Ton’t swear, dou’ swear, 
Ws quite unnecessary,” 


She Pickwick Papers 3 


‘Mr. Snodgrass dropped the hand which he had; Iu the spirit of poesy, raised 
‘towards the clouds as he made the above appeal, and assumed an attitude of at- 
tention. 

“1 want your assistance, my dear follow, in au affair of honor,” sald Mtr, Win- 


“You shall bare it," replied Mr, Snodgrass, clasping his friend's hand. 

* With a doctor, — Doctor Slammer of the Ninety-reventh,"" —aaid Mr. Winkle, 
wishing to make the mattor appear as solemn as possible: “an affair with sn off 
cer, seconded by another officer, at sunset this evening, in a lonely eld beyoad 
Fort Pitt." 

“Twill attend you," sald Mr. Soodgrass. 

‘He was astontahed, but by no moans dismayed. It 1s extraordinary how cool 
ssny party but the principal eam bein such cases. Mr. Winkle had forgotten thia, 
He had judged of his friend’s feelings by his own. 

“The consequences may be dreadful,’ sald Mr. Winkle. 

“ Lhope not," «ald Mr. Snodgrass. 

“The doctor, I believe, is a very good shot,” said Mr. Winkle. 

“Most of these military men are," 
wre you; ant you?” 

‘Mr. Winkle replied in the affirmative; and, percelving that he had not alarmed 
‘is companion mficiently, changed bla ground. 

“Snodgrass” he eald ina volce tremulous with emotion, * if X fall, you will 
find in n packet which I shall place in your hands # note for my— for my father." 

‘This attack was afallurealso. Mr. Snodgrass was affected; but ho undertook 
the delivery of the note as readily as if he had been # two-penny postman. 

“fT fall,” said Mr. Winkle, ‘or, if the doctor falls, you, my dear frlend, wilt 
be tried asansccosory before the fact. Shall I involve my friend in transpor 
tation, — possibly for life!” 

‘Mr. Snodgrass winced a little at this; but his herolsm was invincible. “In the 
cause of friendship,” he fervently exclaimed, * I would brave all dangers.” 

How Mr. Winkle cursed his companion's devoted frlondahip Iuternally, as they 
‘walked stlently along. sido by side, for some minutes, each immersed Ia his own 
meditations! ‘The morning was wearing away! ho grew desperate, 

“Suodgrass?” he sald, stopping suddenly, “do not let me be balked in this mat» 
ter; do not give information to the local wuthorities; do not obtain the asset 
Bunce of rereral peace-officers to take either me, or Doctor Slammer of the Nine 
ty-serenth Regiment, at present quartered in Chatham Barracks, into custody, 
and thus prevent this duel,— I say, do not.’ 

‘Mr. Snodgraxs soized his friend’s hand warmly, as he enthusiastically replied, 
Not for worlds!" 

A thrill passed over Mr. Winklo’s frame, ws the conviction that he had nothing 
to hope from his friend's fears, and that Le was destined to become an animated 
target, rushed forelbly upon him. .. . 

‘It wasa dal! and heavy evening when they again rallied forth on thelr awk- 
Ward errand. Mr. Winklo was mulfled up in a huge cloak to escape observation; 
snd Mr. Snodgrass bore under his the instruments of destruetion. . . . 

* Weare in excellent time.” ¢ald Mr. Snodgrass as they climbed the fence of 
‘2ve first eld: “the suns Just going down.” Mr. Winkle looked up at the declin« 
sg orbs nuit painfully thought of the probability of his “golng down” himself, 
fore long. 

“There's the officer,” excinimed Mr. Winkle, after afew minutes’ walking. 

“Where?” anid Mr. Snodgrass. 

“there, — the genticapau in the blog slowk.” Mr. Sncdgrass looked in the d> 





























uM Ede Dickens Dictionarg. 


qwetian (ntiowtedt by the forefinger of his friend, amd observed a Sgure muffled 1p 
‘rhe had deseribed, ‘The officer evinced his consciousness of thelr presence by 
ightty beckoning with his hand; and the two friends followed him at a little dir 
Hhnwe a8 be walked away. . .. [Ho] turned suddenly from the path; and after 
ettabing & paling, and toaling a hedge, entered a secluded field. Two gentle 
tee were waiting In It: one was a Little fat man with black helr; and the 
olher —® portly personage in « braided surtout — was sitting with perfect equa 
‘uluilty ona eampsttool. 

“The other party, and = surgeon, I suppose,” sald Mr. Soodgrass: “take « 
trop of brandy." Mr. Winklo seized the wicker bottle whlch his friend proffered, 
‘and took # lengthened pull st the exbilarating liquid. 

“My friend, alr, Mr. Snodgrass,” sald Mr. Winkle, as the officer approached, 
‘Dootor Slammer's friend bowed, and produced a case synilur to that which Mr. 
‘Snodgrass carried, 

We have nothing further to say, air, I think,” he coldly remarked, as ke opened 
tho ease: “an apology has been resolutely declined.” 

" Nothing, thr," eald Mr, Snodgrass, who began to feel rather uncomfortable 

“ Wo may place our men, then, I think,” observed the offloer, with #s much tne 
itforence na If the principals were chess-men, and the seconds players. 

“1 tidak we may," replied Mr. Snodgrass, who would have assented to any 
Proposition, because he knew nothing about the matter. ‘The oflloer crossed to 
Dootor Slammer, and Mr. Snodgrass went upto Mr, Winkle. 

“Ths all ready,” he sald, offering the platol. “Give me your cloak.” 

You have got the packet, my dear fellow ?” sald poor Winkle. 

All right,” said Mr. Snodgrass. “He steady, and wing him.” .. 

‘Mr. Winkle was always remarkable for extreme humanity. It ts conjectured 
Unt his unwillingness to hurt a follow-creature intentionally was the cause of his 
shutting his eyes when he arrived af the fatal spot; and that the clreumstance of 
his eyes being closed prevented his observing the very extraordinary and unace 
countable demeanor of Doctor Saimmer. ‘That gentleman started, etared, re- 
treated, rubbed his eyes, stared again, and finally shouted, “ Stop, stop 1?” 

“What "s all this?” said Doctor Slammer, as his friend and Mr. Suodgrass 
came running up. That's not the mai 
Not the man!” said Doctor Slammer’s second. 

Not the man!” said Mr. Snodgrass. 

“Not the mant” sald the gontloman with the earp-stoot in hie hand. 

“ Cortainly not," replied the little doctor, ‘That "snot the person who insulted 
ne last night.” . 

Now, Mr. Winkle had opened his eyes, and hia ears too, when he heard his ad- 
vervary call out for a cossation of hostilities; and perceiving, by what he had afters 
‘wurds said, that there was, beyond all question, some mistake in the matter, he at 
‘nce foresaw the Increase of reputation he should ineritably acquire by couceal- 
Ing tho real motive for bis comlug out: he therefore stepped boldly forward, and 





















Tam not the person, I kaow it.” 

“Then, that,’ raid the man with the camp-stool, “ts an affront to Doctor 
Flammer, and a sudicient reason for proceeding immediately." 

Pray, be quiet, Payne!” said the doctor’a second, “ Why did you not com 
sounioate this fact tome this morning, sir?” 

“To be sure, to be sure!” said the man with the camp-stool {ndiguantly. 

“T entreat you to be quiet, Payne,” sald the other, “May I repeat my ques 
ace, str?” 











She Plekwiek Papers. Th 


“Because, slr,” replied Mr. Winkle, who had thme to deliberate upon hte 

because, sir, you described an intoxicated ant ungentlemanly per- 

‘on as wearing ® coat whiich Ihave the hoor, not only to wear, but to have 

Anyented,—the proposed uniform, slr, of the Pickwick Club In London. The 

honor of that uniform T feel bound to maintain; and £ therefore, without tur 

quiry, accepted the challenge which you offered me.” 

“My dear str,” said the good-humored little doctor, advancing with extended 
hand, “I honor your gallautry. Permit me to ray, sir, that T highly admire 
our conduct, and extremely regret having caused you the inconvenience of 
thls meeting, tno parpone 

you won" mention {t, air," sald Mr. Winkle. 

“Tana el proud of your acquaintance, alr,” sald the Uttle doctor. 

“+t will asford mo the grentest pleasure to know you, sir,” replied Mr. Wine 
le. Thereupon, the doctor and Mr. Winkle shook hands; and then Mfr. Winkle 
‘nnd Lieutenant Tappleton the doctor's second); and then Mr. Winkle and the 

and, finally, Mr. Winkle and Mr, Snodgrass, — the last- 

Seno pontiomas in an exsns of edmtraion at the noble conduc of his herele 

“Tthink we may adjourn,” sald Lieutenant Tappleton, 
7 mdded the doctor, .. - 
ested ata ati tarot ar aces; sod the whole party nO the sromad ta 
‘much more lively manner than they had proceeded to it, 
(Ch. Ui, ti) 

Blumkey, The Honorable Samuel. Candidate for parliament 
from the borough of Eatanswill. He is successful in the contest, 
beating his opponent, Horatio Fizkin, Esq. (Ch. xifi.) 

Slurk, Mr. Editor of “Tho Eatanswill Independent.” (Ch. li.) 
See Porr, Mr. 

Smangle. A fellow-prisoner with Mr. Pickwick in the Fleet. 
(Ch. xii, xlii, xliv.) 

Smart, Tom. Heroof “The Bagman’s Story.” (Ch. xiv.) See 
Jexxuys, Mr. 

Smauker, John, Footman in the service of Angelo Cyrus Ban- 
tam, Esq. (Ch. xxxv, xxvii.) 

Smiggers, Joseph. Perpetual Vice-President of tho Pickwick 
Club. (Ch. i.) 

Smithers, Miss, A young lady-boarder at Westgate House, 
Bury St. Edmunds. (Ch. xvi.) 

Smithie, Mr. A gentleman present at the charity ball at the 
Bull Inn, Rochester. (Ch. il.) 

Smithie, Mrs. His wife. (Ch. IL) 

Smithie, The Misses. His dasghters. (Ch. ii.) 

Smorltork. Count. A famous forcizner whom Mr. Pickwick 
mee= at Mrs. Leo Hunter's fancy-dress breakfast. (Ch. xv.) 

Smouch, Mr. A shoriff’s assistant, whe takes Mr. Pickwick to 

the Fleet Prison, (Ch. x1) 














16 She Olckens Wietlonacy. 


Snipe, The Honorable Wilmot. Ensign of the Ninety-sev 
enth; one of the company ut the ball in Rochester attended by 
Mr. Tupman. (Ch. ii.) 

Snodgrass, Augustus, A poetic member of the Corresponding 
Society of the Pickwick Club, (Ch. i-vi, viii, xi-xv, xviii, xxiv 

, xxvi, xxviii, xxx-xxxii, xxxiv-xxxvi, xliv, xlvii, liv, Ivil) See 
¢_ Pickwicx, Samuk.. 
| Bnubbin, Serjeant. Senior counsel for Mr. Pickwick in his suit 
} with Mrs. Bardell. (Ch. xxxi, xxiv.) See Proxwick, Samuxe. 
‘Mr. Serjeant Snubbin was « lanternfuced, sallowcomplexioned man, of 
about five and forty. .,. [le had that dull-looking, boiled eye, which fa a0 often 
to be seon In the heads of people who have applled themselves during many 
‘years to a weary and laborious course of study, and which would have been suf 
ficient, without the additional eye-glass which dangled from a broad Ulack rite 
bon round his neck, to warn s stranger that he was very nearsighted, His 
hair was thin and weak, which was partly attributable to his having never de- 
‘voted much time to Its arrangement, and partly to his harini worn for five 
and twenty years the forenslo wig which hung on a block beside him. The 
tmarks of halr-powder on his coat-collar, and the ill-washed und worse-tied 
white neckerchief round his thront, showed that he iad not found leleare since 
he left the court to make any alteration tn his dross; while the slovenly style 
of the remainder of his costume warranted the inference that hls personal ap- 
‘pearance would not have been very much improved if he had. 

Snuphanuph, Lady. A fashionable lady whom Mr, Pickwick 
meets at a party at Bath. (Ch. xxxv, xxxvi.) 

Staple, Mr. A little cricket-player who makes a big speech at 

i the dinner which succeeds the match-game at Dingley Dell. (Ch. 
vii.) 

Btareleigh, Mr. Justice. The judge who presides, in the ab- 
sence of the chief justice, at the trial of Bardell es. Pickwick; 
said to be intended as a caricature of Sir Stephen Guselee, a jun- 
Sor judge of the Courtof Common Pleas, (Ch. xxxiv.) See Pick- 
wer, SAMUEL. 

Stiggins, The Reverend Mr., called Tue Sneruenp, An 
intemperate, canting, and hypocritical parson, who ministers to a 
fanatical flock, composed largely of women, at Emanuel Cliapel. 
(Ch. xxvii, xxxiii, xlv, lii.) 

© Tartaffe and Joseph Sarface, Stiggins and Chidband, who are always preaching fir 
‘sentiments, and are no more virtuons than hundreds of those whom they denownes wd 
heat, aro fair objects of mistrast and satire; but thelr hypocrisy, the homage, accord 
(ar to the old saying, which vice pays to virtue, has this ofgood In it, ~that itefruiteare 
Seed. A man may preach goed morals, though he may be himeelf but atax practitioners 
‘& Pharisce may put plooes of gold nto the charity-plate out of mere hypoorisy and o» 
tenvation : but the bad man's gold feeds the widow and the fatherless as well ax thin 400d 


man's. The buteher and baker must needs look, not to motives, but to money, Ia Fe. 
tam for thelr wares." Thackeray. 


_ 














She Plchwiek Papers. 7 


Btruggles, Mr. Acricketer of Dingley Dell. (Ch. vil.) 

» Brother, A member of the Brick Lane Brarch of the 
United Grand Junction Ebenezer Temperance Association. (Che 
xxxili.) 

Tappleton, Lieutenant, Doctor Slammer’s second. (Ch. ii, 
iit) See Stamsen, Doctor, 


called Westgate House, at Bury St. Edmunds. (Ch. xvi.) 
Mrs. Postmistress at Rochester, and one of the com 
pany at the charity ball at the Bull Inn there. (Cb. ii.) 

Tommy. <A waterman. (Ch. ii.) 

Wrotter, Job. The confidential servant of Mr. Alfred Jingle, and 
the only man who proves too sharp for Sam Weller. (Ch. xvi, xx, 
xxiii, xxv, xlii, xlv—xh Iwi.) 

Trundle, Mr. A young man who marries Isabella Wardle. Heis 

repeatedly brought upon the scene as an actor, but not once as an 

interlocutor. (Ch. iv, vi, viil, xvi, xvii, xix, xxviii, lvii.) 

Tuckle, A footman at Bath. (Ch. xx: 

Tracy. One of the Corresponding Society of the Pick- 

i di ition, that he falls in love 

girl he { Ri-xv, xvili, xix, xxiv— 

xxvi, xxvill, xxx, x<xii, aly, xlviiylyii.) See 
Picxwick, Sustors. 


Richard. A green-grocer; ono of the jurymen nin the 
case of Bardell ve, Pickwick. (Ch. xxxiv.) = 
Wardle, Mr. (of Manor Farm, Dingloy Dell). A friend of Mr 
Pickwick and his companions; a stout, hearty, honest old gentle 
map, who is most happy when he is making others to. (Ch. iv, 

yiexl, xvi-xis, xxvili, xxx, liv, lvl.) 

Wardle, Miss Emily. One of his daughters. (Ch. fv, viexi, 
xxviii, xxx, liv, lvii.) 

Wardle, Miss Isabella, Another daughter. (Ch. iv, vi-viii, 
xxviii, lvii.) 

Wardle, Miss Rachael. His sister; « spinster of doubtful age, 

with « peculiar dignity in her air, majesty in her eye, and touch. 

mo-not-ishness in her walk. The “too susceptible Mr. Tupmar. 

falls in love with her, only to be circumvented by the adroit Mr. 

ingle, who steals her heart away fron: him, and elopes with ber, 

‘but is pursued, overtaken, and induced to relinquish hia prize in 

consideration of a check for a hundred and twenty pounds. (Ch 

iy, vi-ix.) 





Tomking, Miss... Principal of a boanting-school for young Indies, 


a 





738 She Wickens Mietlenarp. 


Wardle, Mrs. Mother of Mr. Wardic and Miss Rachael; vory old 
and very deaf. (Ch. vi-ix, xxviii, Ivit) 

Watty, Mr. A bankrupt client of Mr. Perker, whom he keeps 
pestering about his affairs, although they have not been in chan- 
cery four years. (Ch. xxxi.) 

Weller, Samuel. Mr. Pickwick’s valet; an inimitable compound 
‘of wit, simplicity, quaint humor, and fidelity, who may be regarded 
as an embodiment of London low life in its most agreeable and 
entertaining form, Master and servant first meet at a public-honse, 
whither Mr, Pickwick goes with Mr. Wardle in search of that gen- 
tleman’s sister, who has eloped with Mr. Alfred Jingle. Mr. Wel- 
ler first appears on the scene busily employed in brushing a pair of. 
boots, and “ habited in a coarse striped waistcoat, with black calico 
slooves and blue glass buttons; drab breeches and leggings, A 
bright red handkerchief was wound in a very loose and unstudied 
style round his neck, and an old white hat was thrown carelessly on 
‘one side of his head. There were two rows of boots before him; 
‘one cleaned, and the other dirty; and, at every addition he made 
to the clean row, he stopped in his work, and contemplated its re- 
sults with evident satisfaction.” Sam carries Mr, Jingle’s boots to 
him, and, being asked where Doctors’ Commons is, at once divines 
that he wants to procure a marriage-license. 


- 
“My father," sald Sam fn reply to # question, “vos a coachman. A vidower 

he vos, and fat enough for any thing,—unoommon fat, to be sure! His missus 

faze dies, and leaves him four hundred pound. Down he goes to the Commons, ta 
sce the lawyer and draw the blunt,—wery smszt, top-boots on, novegay fo hiv 

a Dutton-bole, broad-brimmed tile, green shawl—quite the gen'lm’n. Goes 


through the archvay, thinking how he should inwest the money ; up comes the 
touter, touches his bat,—<License, alr, license ?!—* What "* that?! says my 
father. ‘License, sir,’ says he, *What Iconse?? says my father. *Murriage- 
Ucense,’ anys the touter, ‘Dash my veskit!? saya my futher, ‘Imever thought 
oth ink you Wanta one, sir,’ says the touter, My futher palls up. and 
thinks a bit. No,’ says he, *damme, I'm too old; b’sides, I"m a many alzes too 
large,’ saya he. ‘Nota bit on it, sir!” says the touter. ‘Think not?? says my 
father. *I’m sure not,'says be. ‘We married a gen'lm'n twice your size last 
Monday?—*Did you, though ?? saya my father. ‘To be sure ve did! says the 
touter: ‘you "re babby to him. This vay, sir,—this vay!? And. sure enough, 
my father walks arter him, like & tame monkey Delind a horgan, iuto a litle 
backoflice rere a feller sut among dirty papers and tin boxes, making beliere 
ho was busy. ‘Dray take a seat vile I makes out the atidevit, sir,’ says the 

. “Thankee, slr!” says my father; and down he sat, and stared vith all 
ils eyes, nnd his mouth vide open, at the names on the boxes. *Whmt% yoar 
name, sir?? says the lawyer. ‘Tony Weller,’ says my father. ‘Parish ?? snye 
‘the lawyer. ‘Belle Savage? says my father; for he stopped there ven he drove 
‘ep; aud he know 'd nothing about parishes, he did n%. “Aud whut "s the lady’s 






































She Pickwick Papers. 79 


fame?? anys the lawyor. My futher was struck all of w heap. * Bless if t know !? 
‘ways he. “Not know!? says the lawyer. ‘No more nor you do,’ says my father. 
* Can't I put that in arterwants?’—* Impossible!” says the lawyer, ‘Wery well! 
‘says ay father, after he "d thought a moment, ‘put down Mrs, Clarke’ —* What 
‘Clarke? says the lawyer, dipping his pen tn the Ink. ‘Susan Clarke, Markie 
‘AU have mo, 1 Task her, I detay. 1 
jaye me, I know.’ The license was made 
out, and she did have him; and, what’s more, she’s got him now; and J never hind 
any of the four hundred pound, worve luck! Beg your pardon, air,” anid Sam 
_ when he had concluded, “ but, vhen I gets on this here grievance, I runs on like 
‘new barrow vith the vicel greased.” 


After this, Mr. Pickwick meets Sam, and, liking his appearance, 
resolves to engage him. He sends for him, therefore, and proposes to 
give him twelve pounds a year, and two suits of clothes, to attend 
upon him, and travel about with him and the other Pickwickians,— 
terms which are highly satisfhetory to Sam. 

When Mr. Pickwick goes to consult Mr. Perker in relation to the 
action which Mrs. Bardell has brought against him for breach of 
promise, Sam accompanies him, 


‘They had walked some distance, — Mr. Pickwick trotting on before plunged in 
profound meditation, and Sam following behind, with @ countenanes expressive 
of the most euyiable and easy defiance of everybody and every thing; when the 
Intter, who was always expecially anxious to impart to his master any exclusive 
Information lie possessed, quickened his pace until he was close at Mr. Pickwick's 
‘heels, and, polnting up at a house they were passing, said, — 

“Wery nice thas Mere, abr” 

Yes; it seems so,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“Celebrated sassage-fuctory,” said Sam. 

4 Toit?" anid Mr. Pickwick, 

“Is it” reiterated Sam with rome (ndignation: “I should rayther think # 
was. Why, sir, bless your innocent eycbrows, that’s where the mysterious dle 
appoaraxes of a 'ypectable tradesman took place four years ago.” 

‘You don’t mean to say he was burked, Sam?" sald Mr. Pickwick, looking 

round. 





* No; K don't indeed, sir," replied Mr. Weller. “I wish I did! Far worse them 
that. He was the master 0” that ‘ere shop, sir, and the inwenter 0” that patent 
neyer-leavin’-oif sassage steam-{njine as "ud swaller up a pavin"-stone if you put tt, 
‘too nesr, and erind it Into sassages ax easy as if It was » tender young babby. 
‘Wery proud.o” that machine he was, as it was nav'ral he shoul be; and he'd 
stand down fn the cellar a-lookin’ at it wen it was in full play, till he got quite 
melancholy with joy. A wery happy man ho’d ha’ been, sir, In the procession o* 
that ‘ore ingine and two more lovely infants bosldes, if ft hadnt been for his 

who was nmost ow-dacious wixin. She was always a-follerin’ hin about, 
‘nd dinnis’ in hls ears, till at Inst he could n't stand it no longer. ‘Il tell you 
‘what it fe, my dear,’ he anys one day: ‘if you persewere In this here sort of 
aimusoment,’ he rays, ‘I'm blessed if « don’t go away to "Mereiker; and thar’s al? 
About it’ —' You're a idle willis,” says sho; * and Twish the 'Merrikina Joy of thelr 
eargin’ Arter wich she keeps on abusin’ of him for balf an hour and then runs 
Into the litle partor behind the shop; sets to wacreamin", says he ll be the death 























80. Sbe Mickens Dctfonars. 


om her; and falls in a Gt, which lasts for three good hours, —one 6* them Sts wien: 
‘all screamin’ sed Kickin’. Well, next mornin’ the husband was missia’. He 


ever a body tarned up, Ht was carried right straight off to the rassage-shop. Howe 
ever,noneom ‘em anewered: so they gave out that he "d run avay, and she kept on 
the bis bent. Owe Saterday ulght, a little thin old gen''m'n comes into the shop 
to a gross pansion, and says, ‘ Aro you the mix of this here shop??—*Yes, f am,’ 
says che. * Well, ma'am,’ says be, ‘then Ire just looked in to say that me and 
my familly als't a-goin’ to be eboked for nothin’; and more than that, ma'am,’ he 
sass, ‘you'll allow me to obserre, that, as you don't uso the primest parts of the 
seat fa the mamatscter of sassager, I think you'd find beef come nearly as cheap 
ss bettons,'—<As buttons, sir!’ says she. * Buttons, ma'am,’ said the little old 
gentleman, enfolding a bit of paper, and showin’ twenty or thirty halves 0 but- 
teas. “Nice seasonin’ for xaaages is trousers’ buttons, ma’am!?—* They're my 
busband's bettoma!” says the widder, beginaln’ to faint, * What? screams the tittle 
‘bd gea'Tew'a, taraie! weey pale. ‘I see it all!? says the widder: ‘in u fit of tem- 
porary Insanity be rashly comverted Bisself into sassages!” And so he had, sir,” 
abd Mr. Weller, looking steadily into Mr. Pickwick’s horror-stricken countenance, 
“or else be Mi Dees drawl lato the ingine; but, however that might ha’ been, the 
Untke olf genes, whe had been remarkably partial to saseages all his life rushed 
‘eat o the abop fa a wild state, and was pover heerd on artervards.” 


‘Sam, fo is travels with Mr. Pickwick, falls in with a comely sery- 
ant-girl by the name of Mary, and is smitten with her charms, He 
determines to write her a letter, and, whilo engaged in the task, is in- 
tecrupted by bis father. 


To ladies and gentlemen who are not in the habit of devoting themselves prac 
tlonlty to the seience of penmanship, writing a letter la no very ensy task, ft being 
always coneldered wecestary in euch cases for the writer to recline his head on his 
teh ar, pons to place lils eyes as nearly as possible on a level with the paper, and. 
while glancing shleways at the letters he ls constructing. to form with his tongue 
Imaginary characters to correspond. There motions, although unquestionably of the 

nsslstamee £0 original composition, retard, In some degree, the progres of 

he writer; aud Sam hind unconsefously been a frll hour and a half writing words tn 
Joxt, emearing out wroug letters with hia little finger, and putting In new 
whieh required golng orer very often to render them visible through the 

wb hots, mien he was roused by the openiag of the door and the entrance of his 


wren, 

© Veil, Simminy," anid the father, ... “wot ‘« that you're adotn’ of, — pare 
wilt Of Keowiedgo under dificulties? eh, Sammy?” 

“1 Ne done vow,” esid Sam, with slight embarrassment. “I ve been » 
ertiiw."" 
Ho I yee," replied Mr, Weller. Not to any young Yooman, X hope, Sararmy.” 
4 Way, Ibe mm eee aosnyin' It ain't,” replied Sam,“ It%s a walentine” 

A what!” exelnimed Mtr. Weller, apparently horror-stricken by the word, 

A Waleniine,” replied Sam, 

* Hamivel, Samtvel,”* vald Mr, Weller ta reproachfiil nosents, “I did n't thia® 























She Pickwick Papers. 


‘dia done it. Arter the warnin’ you "ve had o' your father's wielous 

5 arter nil L've wald to vos upon this here wery subject; arter notiwally seein’ 
nud bein” tn the company v? your own mother-in-law (rich T should ha? thoug! 
‘wos a moral lesson ax no man could ever ha’ forgestn to hls dyin'-day),—F did n't 
think you "d ha? done It, Sammy, I did n't think you'd ha* done It.” ‘These rofles- 
tions were too much fur tite good old man. He raised Sam's ¥:rabler to his lips, 
‘tod drank off the contents. 

Wot % the matter now?” sald Sam, 

“Nev'r mind, Sammy," replied Mr, Weller, “It tl bea wery agonizin’ trial to 
mp .at my time of life; but I’m pretty tovgh, thats yun consolation, as the wery 
old turkey remarked ven the farmer sald he wos afeered he should be obliged ts 
‘ail! him for the Loodon market.” 

“Wot 'll be a trial?” inquired Sam. 

“To see you married, Sammy; to seo you a deluded wictim, and thinkin? in 
‘your innooenen that t's all wery eapltal,” replied Mr. Weller, “It 'e.a dreadful 
Win! to a father's feclin’s — that "ere, Sammy. 

“Nonsense! "sald Sam. “Taint a-goin’ to get married, don’t you fret your 
srif mbout that: I know you ‘re ajodge of these things. Order in your pipe, and 
4/1 read you the letter — there!" 

‘We cannot distinctly say whether it was the prospect of the pipe, or the consol- 
Atory reflection that a fatal disposition to got married ran fn the fumily, and 
could n't be helped, which calmed Mr. Weller’s feelings, and caused bis grief to 
subside. We should be rather disposed to say that the result was attained by 
combining the two sources of coutolation; for ho repeated the second iu m low 
tone very frequently, ringing the bell, meanwhile, to order in the frst. He thon 
divested Limself of his upper coat; and lighting the pipe, and placing himself in 
front of the fire with his back towards {t, +0 that he could feel {ts full heat, and re 
cline against the mantle-ploce nt the same time, turned towards Sam, and, with « 
countenance greatly modified by the softening influence of tobacco, requested hima 
to“ fire away." 

‘Sam dipped hie pen into the Ink to be ready for any corrections, and begun with 
uyery thoatrical alr, — 

Lovely? — 

x Bley ad Mr, Weller, ringing the bell. “A double glass of the inwarinble, 
‘my dear.” 

“Very well, ste,” replied the girl, who with great quickness appeared, vanished, 
‘returned, and disappeared. 

‘They seem to know your ways here,” observed Sam. 

4 Yeas" replied his father, “I've been here before in my thme. Go on, Sammy.” 

"Lovely croetur,’" repeated Sam, 

“* Tain’t in poetry, is it? interposed the father. 

“No, no,” replied Sam. 

“ Wery glad to hear {t," sald Mr. Weller. “Pootry 's unnat'ral: no man ever 
talked in poetry ‘cept m beadic on boxin’day, or Warren's blackin’, or Rowland’s 
oll, or some of them low fellows. Never you let yourself down to talk poetry, my 
‘boy. Bogin again, Sammy.” 

Mr, Weller resumed his pipe with critical solemnity; and Sam once more com- 
‘menced, ond read as follows: — 

«Lovely creetur { foc! myself x dammed!” — 

“ Thag sin't proper,” rad Mr, Weller, taking, his pipe from his mouth. 

“No, it ain't “dammed,” observed Sam. holding the letter up to the light; 
it’s ‘shamed:? there a blot thore, ‘I foet myself ashamed.’ * 











82 Ede Mickens Wictlonarg. 


aes a ae: “Goon” 

coped mie aman and completely cir?— I forget wot this here word 
ts,” anid Sam. scratehing his head with the pen, tn vain attempts to remember. 

“ Why don’t you look at it, then?” inquired Mr. Weller. 

“SoTamo-lookin’ att,” replied Sam; " but thero *s another blot, Here%s « ‘a, 
ngs and aia 

ited, p'rhaps,"" suggeated Mr. Weller. 
‘coy trains tat” call Baan cheomsarbed ‘that ‘sith 
“That alot ax good a word as clreumwented, Sammy,” sald Mr. Welle 


wavely- 

“Think not?" sald Sam, 

“ Nothin’ Like it!” replied his father. 

But don’t you think it means more?" inquired Sam. 

“Vell, p'rhaps itis. more tenderer word," sald Mr, Weller after a few mo- 
‘ments’ redection. Go on, Sammy.” 

“<< Foe! myself ashamed and completely elrcumseribed ia a dressla? of you, for 
you ar¢ a nice gal, and nothin’ but ft" 

“That ’s a wery pretty sentiment,” said the elder Mr, Weller, removing his 
pipe to make way for the remark. 

™ Yew, [think It la rayther good,” observed Sam, highly flattered. 

“Wot I like in that ‘ere style of writin',” sald the elder Mr, Weller, “ts, that 
{here afu't no callin’ names in it, —no Wenuses, nor nothin’ o? that kind. Wot" 
the good o” callin’ a young ‘ooman a Wenus or a angel, Sammy?” 

“Ah I what, indeed?" replied Sam, 

“You might jist as yell call her a griffin, or a unicorn, or a king's arms at 
noe, which la wery well known to bes col-lection o fubulous animale,” added Mr, 
Weller. 

“Just as well?” replied Sam. 

“Drive on, Sammy," sald Mr. Weller, * 

Sam complied with the request, and proceeded as follows; his futher continu- 
Ing to «moke with m mixed expression of wisdom and complacency which was 
particularly edifying. 

“+ Afore I seo you. I thought all women was alike.’ " 

“So they mre,” observed the elder Mr. Weller parenthetically. 

“<But now,’ continued Sam, — ‘now T dud what a reg'lar soft-headed, fn- 
kred'lous turnip I must ha’ beea ; for there aln’t nobody like you, though I like sou 
better than nothin’ at all.” I thought it best to make that raytber strong," said 
Gam, looking up. 

‘Mr, Weller nodded approvingly, and Sam reramed:— 

+0 T take the privilidge of the day, Mary, my dear,—as the gen'tem*a fn diff 
aulties did, vee he valked out of a Sunday,—to tell you that the first mad only 
timo I x00 yon your Ikeness was took on my hart in much quicker time and bright 
er colors than ever a likenoss was taken by the profeel machen (wich p’r'aps you 
may have heerd on Mary my dear) altho it does Anish a portrait and put the frame 
‘sod glass on complete with @ hook wt the end to hang {t up by and all in two mine 
utes and a quarter?” 

“T am afcored that werges on the poetical, Sammy,” sald Mr, Weller dubl- 


eusly. 
“No, it don’t replio# Sam, reading on very quickly to avoid coutesting the 
potnt. 
“* Except of me Mary my dear as your walentine and think over what I‘ 
sald. My dear Mary I will now conclade? That all," sald Sasa, 











he Plckwick Papecs 83 


“That ruyther a sudden poll up; nln’ {t, Sammy?" inquired Mr. Weller. 
‘Not « bit on ft," sald Sam. “She'll viel there wos tnore, and that ‘s the great 

art 0° letterswritin’.” 

“Well,” sald Mr. Weller, there *s somethin in that; and I wish your mothers 
te-law od only conduct her conwersation oo the samo gun-teel principle. An 
you a-goin’ to sign it?” 

“That %s the diffiealty/" anid Sam. “I don’t kuow what fo sign tt.” 

Sign it * Veller,’* sald tho oldest surriving proprietor of that name, 
“Woo do,” said Sam. “Never siga s walcntine with your own name.” 
“Sign it ‘Pickvick,? then,” sald Mr. Weller: “it " a wery good name, and a 

eary one to spell." 

“The wery thing!” sald Sam. ‘I cout end with awerse: what do you think?* 

Tdon't tike tt, Sam," rejoined Mr. Weller. “T never know'd a respectable 
emachiman as wrote pootry, ‘cept ono, as made an affectin’ copy o” werses the night 
‘afore ho wos huug for s highway robbery; and he wos only a Cambervell man: s0 
‘even that ’s no rule.” 

‘But Sam was not to bo dissuaded from the poetical Ides that had occurred to 
‘him, #0 he signed the lotter, — 

* Your loye-atok 
Pickwick." 

And, having folded it In a very intricate manner, aqueczed  down-bill direction 

tn one corner,—“To Mary, House-maid, at Mr. Nopkina's Mayors, Ipswich, Sut 

folk,” — and put It into his pocket, wafered, and ready for the general post, 


To the last, Sam remains devotedly attached to his master; and 
when Mr. Pickwick gives up his rambles, retires from active life and 
settles down at Dalwich, he goes with him, determined to remain sin- 
gle, and to stick by him and make him comfortable, “ ages or no 
‘vages, notice or no notice, board or no board, lodgin’ or no lodgin*." 


Sam Weller kept his word, and rematned unmarried for two years, ‘The old 
housekeeper dying at the end of that time, Mr. Pickwick promoted Mary to the 
sitaation, on condition of her marrying Mr. Weller at once, whieh she did with- 
‘gut amurmur. From the clramstanco of two sturdy little boys having been re- 
peatedly seen ut the gute of the back-garden, we have reason to suppose that Sam 
bas some furnily. 

(Ch. x, xil, xiii, xv, xvi, xvili-xx, xxil-xxvill, xxx-xxxv, xxxvi- 
alviil, I-lii, Iv-tvii.) See Jon (the fat boy), Prenwicx (Samut), 
Wetter (oxy). 


“Bara Is the most Tight-hearto? horo, perbaps, thot has ever bee | put upon esavas, ae 
ibe very tmopersonation of easy conscious skill and cleverness. He has 
‘sey ting In his career that he could not give a good account of Lifo is all tard 
Wills fhim, straightforward, jorial,on the eurfuce. . . ‘This hostler from tne city, this 
groom picked up from tho pavement, 1, without doubt or controversy, everybody's tanster 
Im the story of which he Is the centre, When the whole little community In the book Is 
puizaled, Sam's cleverness cuts the knot. It is be who always seos whut to do, who Keepa 
sverybody lta in ordar. Ho evon combines with hie rBte of all-accomplished sorvingynan 
the other role of jeune premier, and retains his superiority all through the book, at ance 
40 phlloswphy and practical insight, 1a love and war." —Blackwood's Magarine, Vol. CLX, 
2D GTA, 























4 The Wickens Wictlonary. 


Weller, Tony. Father to Samuel Weller; one of theold plothor 
ic, mottled-faced, greatcoated, many-waisteoated stage-coachmer 
that flourished in England before the advent of railways, Beinga 
widower, and therefore feeling rather lonely at times, he is invei- 
gled by a buxom widow, who keeps a public-houso, into marrying 
again. Father and son, who have not seen each other for some 
time, accidentally meet one day at an inn where Sam is staying 
with his master, Mr. Pickwick. 

A hoarse voice, like some strange effort of rentriloquism, emerged from 
‘beneath the capacious shawls which muffled . . . throat and chest, and slowly 
‘uttered there sounds,—* Wy, Saromy!” 

“Who's that, Sam?” inquired Mfr. Plokwlek. 

“ Why, I wouldn't ha’ believed It, str!" replied Mr. Weller with astonished 
eyes, Tk? the old ’un” 

“Old one?” sald Mr. Pickwick, —* whnt ol one?” 

“My father, sir,” replied Mr. Wellor. “How are you, my anclent?” And, 
‘with this beautifal cbullition of filial affection, Mtr. Weller unde room ou the 
scat beside him for the stout man, who advanced, pipe in mouth and pot in 
hand, to greet hit, 

+ Wy, Sammy!” sald the father: “ han't seen you for two yeare and bet- 


“No more you have, old codger," replied the von, “ Mow 's mother-ine 
Inw 

Wy, Ill tel you what, Sarusmy,” sald Mr, Weller, senor, with much solem- 
nity in his manner, ‘there never was a nicer Woman as a widder than that 
Jero xecond weutaro’ mine. A sweet croctur she was, Saminy ; aud all T can say 
‘on her now fe, that, ax she was such an uncommon plewnnt wider, 1t% w great 
pity she ever changed her condition, She don't actas a vif, Sammy.” 

+ Don't she, though ?” inquired Mr. Weller, junlor. 

‘The elder Mr. Weller shook his head, ax ho replied with a sigh, “I?ve done 
Itonee too often, Sammy,—T Wve done It ones too often. Take example by your 
futher, my boy, and be wery careful o* widders all your life, #pecally If they tre 
kepta publichoure, Sammy.” And, having delivered this parental advice with 
great pathos, Mr. Wellor, senior, refilled his pipe from a tin box he carried ta 
his pocket, and, lighting his fresh pipe from the ashes of the old one, come 
menoed smoking at a gront rate, 


Shortly after this, Mr. Weller mects his son again, when a more 
extended conversation ensues. 


“ That ‘ere your governor's luggage, Sammy?" inquired Mr. Weller, ventor 
of iis affectionate son, ms he entered the yard of the Bull Eun, Whitechapel 
with a travelling-bag anda xmnall portmantest, 

You might ha’ mado mworser guess than that, old feller," replied Mr 
‘Weller, the younger, setting down his trarden in the yard, and sitting himself 
down upon it afterwards, © governor his-self "ll be down here presently.” 

“Me ‘s acabbiu’ it, I suppose?” said the father. 

Yeu, he '* sharin’ two mile o! danger wt ¢ightpence,” responded the son, 
How 's mothor-In-lsw this morntu’?”” 

Queer, Sammy, queer,” replied the elder Mr. Weller with kmpressive grav 

















OLD WELLER AND THR COACHMEN 











The Plckwoick Papers. 86 


ity. “She % been gettin’ rayther tn the Methodistical order Intely, Sammy; 
424 she’s uncommonly pious, to be sure. She's too good s crectur for me, 
Saumy; I feel I don't deserve ber.” 

Ant” said Mr. Samuel: “ that "s wery eelfdenyis! of you." 

“ Wery," replied his parent with = sigh. ™ She"s got hold o” some Invention 
thr grown-up people being bors again, Sammy,—the new birth, I thinks they 
calls it. I shoald wery much like to we that system tm hactloo, Sammy. I 
sbecld wery much Ike to see your motherinlaw born egal. Wouldo’t I pus 
ber out to nuree! 

What do you think them women docs tlother day," continue’ Mr. Weller, 
after a short pause, during which he had significantly streck the side of his 
ove with his foretinger some half-dozen times, —“ what do yeu think they does 
other day, Sammy?” 

“ Doa't know,” replied Sam: “ what?” 

“Gore and gets up & grand tea-drinkin’ for @ feller they calls thelr shep- 
herd,” said Mr. Weller. “I was a-ttanding starin’ in at the pictershop down at 
our place, when T sees m little bill about it: * Tickets half a crown. All applica- 
tons to be mate to the committee, Secretary, Mrs, Weller! And when I got 
home, there was the committee a-sittin’ in our back-parlor,— fourteen women, 
I wish you could ha’ heard ’em, Sammy! There they was, a-passin’ resolutions, 
‘and wotfn’ supplies, and all sorts o? games. Well, what wilh your motherin 
law worrying me to go, cnd what with my looking for'ard to seein’ some 
queer starts if I did, I put my name down for a ticket. At six o'elock on the 
Friday evenin’ F dresses myself out wery smart, and off I goes vith the od 
‘oman; and up we walka into a fust floor where there was tea-things for thirty, 
tnd & whole tot of women as begins whisperin’ to ane another, aod lookin’ at 
me as if they “d mever seen rayther # stout gen'im’n of eight and fifty afore. 
By aed by, there comes a great bustle down stairs; and a lanky chap with a red 
nose and white neckcloth rushes up, and sings out, ‘Here ' the shepherd « 
coming to wisit his faithful flock 1? und in comes = fat chep in black, vith » greet 
white face, a-amilin’ avay like clockwork. Such goin’s-on, Sammy! ‘The kiss 
of peace,’ anys the shepherd; and thea he kissed the women all round, and, ven 
he"ddone, the max rith the red nose began, Iwas Just athinkin’ whother I 
had't better beg'a too, — "specially as there was a wery nice lady a-stttin! next 
tue, —ven in comes the tea, and your mother-ie-law, as had been makla’ the 
kettle boil down stairs, At it they went, tooth snd nall, Such # precious Joud 
hymn, Sammy, while the tea was a-brewing! such a grace! such eatin’ and 
Grinkin’! I wish you could ha’ seen the shepherd walkin’ {nto the ham and 
wwuffins. I never seo such a chap to eat and drink—never! The red-aosed 
yuan warn’t by no meaus the sort of person you ’d like to grub by contract ; but 
he was nothia’ to the shepherd. Well, arter the tea was aver, they tang muy 
other hymn, and then the shepherd began to preach; and wery well he did it, 
sousiderio” how heavy them muffins must have lied on bis chest. Presently ue 
1 2le sp all of a audden, and hollers out.‘ Where i+ the sinner? where As the 
matic sinner? upow which wil the women looked at me, and Regus to 
roam as if they wne dyin’. I thought it was rather sing’lar; but, hows'ever, I 
says nothing, Presently be pulls up again, and, lookin’ wery hard at me, says, 
“Where i the sinner? where fs the mis'rable sinner?’ and all the women 
groans agai, ten times Jouder than afore. I got rather wild at this: so I 
‘akos a #tep or two for'sml, and sayy, «My frlend/ says I, “did you appiy that 
‘ere obserwation to me?! "Stead of beggi my pardon, as any gea'l'm'n would 
‘Ee’ done, be got morg abusive than ever, called me a wessel, Sammy,—a wow 

. 





a 





36 he Dickens Mietfonacy. 


vel of wrath, —and all sorts 0’ names. So my blood being reg’larty op, I fret 
gave hin two or three for himself, and thea two or three more to lund over to 
‘the man with tho red nose, and walked of, Iwish you could ba’ heard how 
the women screamed, Sauminy, vea they pleked up Use shepherd from ander the 


(Oh xx, xxii, xxiii, xxvii, xxiii, xxxiv, xliti, xiv, Iii, ly, vi) 
See Pickwick (Samurt) and Wetter (SAMvEt). 

Weller, Mrs. Susan. His wife, formerly Mrs. Clarke. (Ch. 
xxvii, xlv.) See Weiter (Sacer) and Wr1.er (Tory). 

‘Whiffers. A footman at Bath. (Ch. xxxvii.) 

‘Wicks, Mr. Clerk in office of Dodson and Fogg. (Ch. xx.) 

‘Wilkins, Gardener to Captain Boldwig. (Ch. xix.) 

‘Winkle, Mr., senior. Father of Nathaniel Winkle; an old 
wharfinger at Birmingham, and a thorough man of business, having 
the most methodical habits, and never committing himself hastily in 
any affair, He is greatly displeased at his son's marriage to Miss 
Arabella Allen, but finally forgives him, and admits that the lady 
is “a very charming little daughter-in-law, after all.” (Ch. 1, lv.) 

‘Winkle, Nathaniel. A member of the Correspanding Society 
of the Pickwick Club, and a cockney pretender to sporting skill. 
(Ch, i-y, vii, ix, xi-xiii, xv, xvili, xix, xxiv-xxvi, xxviii, xxx- 
xxxii, xxxiv-xxxvi, xxviii, xxxix, xliv, xlvii, liv, lvi, lvii.) 

‘Witherfield, Miss. A middlo-aged lady, affianced to Mr. Mag- 
nus. (Ch. xxii, xxiv.) See Macxus, Peter. 

Wugsby, Mrs. Colonel, A fashionable lady whom Mr. Pick- 
wick mects at Bath. (Ch. xxxv, xxxvi.) 

Zephyr, The, See Mivixe, Mr. 


PRINCIPAL INCIDENTS. 







‘Cuarran T, Meoting of the Pickwick Cluby Mr. Motton calls Mr. Pickwick = “ume 
tug" ina” Pickwickian sense." —IL The Pickwleklans get into trouble with the eusch- 
thon at the Golden Cross Inny they moet Mr. Alfred Jing 10 journey to Rochestory 
after supper at tho Ball Yon, Mr. Tapman and Mr, Jingle attend tho ball, Sr. Jingle 
cites the Jealousy of Dr, Slammer, who cbal- 
duel, whileh ts Luterrupted by De. Slammer discover 
sua) Jemmy relates * The Stroller'e Tate {* 
? iMtary review al Hochenter; meet lng With 
‘Tho drive to Dingley Delly Mr, Winkle, dismounting, te 
amableto remount; and, Mr. Pickwick polng to lis avalstadco, his horse runsaway, leaving 
he Pickwickians to walk tho re9t of the way.—VI, Tho card-party at Mr. Wardio'ey the 


Ede Ble! 





ick Papers, 87 


Slergyman recltes* The Try Groon,”* and relates The Convict's Return." — VIE. Mr, Wine 
ie attemps to shoot the rocks and wounds Mr. Tupman; the ericket-match at Musyie 
ton, and the dinner which followed, — VIII. Mr. Tupman propcass to Miss Rachacl, and is 
discovered by the fut boy ; Joc, relating the discovery to old Mra, Wardle, Is overheard by 
Mr. Jingle, who determines to supersede Mr. Tupman in tho splnster’s affections. IX, 
Pioilins his arta aucetnaful, he elopes with her: Mr. Wardle and Mr. Pickwick follow, and 
‘are Just on the point of overtaking the fugitives, when thalr carriage breaks down, —X. 
Bam Weller's frat appearance as" boots" at the White Hart Inn; his account of his fi 
‘ther's marringos Mtr, Wardle questions Sam, and finds that Jingle and Miss Rachael wre at 
the White Hart; Mr. Jingle te bought off, and the Indy returns with her brotner.— Xt 
‘Tho disappearance of Mr. Tapman, and the journey of Pickwick, Snodgrass, and Winkle 
fm search of him; Mr. Piskwick discovers the stone with the famous antique invcription ¢ 
‘the madunan's manuscript; the discussion oecastoned among the loarned avcleticr by Mi 
Pickwiek’s discovery. —XUL Mr. Pickwick, informing Mrs. Bardell of hia determinatio 
toomploy a valot, finds himself tn an awkward situation, In which ho ks discovered by bi 
felends; Mr. Pickwick engages Sam Weller as his valet,— XIII. Someaccountof Katan- 
‘ewill, ond therival factions of tho Tufts snd Blues: Mr, Perker explains how an election ts 
managed, and introduces tho Pickwicklans to Mr. Pott, editor of the Gazotte, who invites 
‘Mr, Piekwick and Mr. Winkle to his house: 8am Weller relates to his master some tricks of 
‘the election; apeeches of the rival eandidates, and success of tho Hon, Samuel Slumkey.— 
‘XIV. "The Ragman'sStory."'— XV. Mr, Leo Hunter waits upon Mz. Pickwick, and tavites 
‘hima and his friends to a,fite champétre, to be given by Mrs Leo Hunter; dispute and recone 
eiilation of Me. Pickwick and Mz. Tupman: the fancy ball at Mrs. Hunter's, and re-appear 
‘8200 of Alfred Jinglo as Mr. Charles Fitz-Marshall; recognizing Mr. Pickwick, hesudJenly 
Aeparts, and ts followed by Mr. Pickwick and Sam to the Angel, at Bary 8. amanda, — 
XVI- Sam gives Mr. Plokwick some account of his bringing up: Sam discovers Mr. Job 
‘Trotter, who reveals the plans of Mr. Charles Pitz-Marshall for eloping with # young Indy 
‘from the boardlag-school; Mr. Pickwick"s adventure in the boarding-school ; bets relieved 
‘fromm his unpleasant altuation by the appearance of Mr. Wardle and Mr, Trundle, ~XVII- 
‘AM. Pickwick reads to Mr, Wantle the Story of the Parish Clerk."*— XVII. Me. Pott, 
‘having his Joalouxy of Mr. Winkle excited by wn artiole In * The Independent,” denounces 
that gentleman, whereupon a scene ensues, ending tn the departure of Mr. Winkle; Mostra. 
‘Winklo, Snodgrass, and Tupman Join Mr. Pickwick at tho Angel, st Bury St. Edmunds; 
Mr. Pickwick receives a letter from Messrs, Dodson and Fogg, inforuning him of Afr. 
Bordeli's wait for breach of promise. — XIX. Account of the shooting-party and the ex- 
‘traontinary skill of Menara. Tupman and Winklo; Sam Weller explains the mysteries of 
‘weal ples" Mz, Plekwick, having imbibed punch very freely, falls aaleop {a a wheel- 
barrow, and (s left alone while the party continuo their sport; he Is discovered by Capt. 
Boldwig, who orders him to be wheeled off to the pound, from which ho ta rescued by Mr. 
‘Yardjoand Sam Weller, —XX. Mr. Pickwick and Sam visit tho office of Dodson and Fogg, 
diet which, they call at a tavern, whore Sain unexpectedly encounters hin fathar; from 
som th 7 Hearn thot Jinglo and Job Trotter azo at Ipswich, and Mr. Pickwick decides to 
‘week them thero nt once; Mr. Pickwick finds Sr. Lowten at the head of a convivial party 
‘85 fh Mazplo snd Stamp, and Is Invited to Jon them. — XXL. Jack Bamber relates some 
stories about Gray's Ian, and also "A Talo of a Queer Client." — XXII. Mr. Pickwick, 
ing to Ipswich, meets Mr. Peter Magnus, gotng to the same place, and Learns from that 
enleman dix object in viklting that citys Mr, Pickwick, retiring for the nlsht, leaves his 
-vacch upon the table, and, returning to seek tt. loves his way, and gets into the wrong 
‘Foot, which proves to bo the chumber of a middle-aged lady. —XXIiI, Sam Wellor une 
‘wpectedly encounters Mr, Job Trotter, and beeins his roturn-mateh, — XXLV. Mr. Magnus 
mizottuces Mr. Mick wick to bie lady, ished at thotr behavior, Miss Witherfleld 
‘waite upon George Nupkins, Esq., and enters a complaint aptinst Mr. Pickwick, in con- 
sequenes of which that gentloman and Mr. Tupman aro arrested, and, In attempting ® 
resoue, Sam Weller‘and the other Picewickians aharo the same frto.—XXV. The trial 
Defure George Supking Ieeq,, which is brought to wn uncxpected termination by Mr. Mieke 
wick exposing Mz, Aled Jingle and lus designs; Mr. Weller also exposes Job Trotters 
Sho frat passage ov afr, Wollet's tvt love.— XXVI. Sam viaits Sirs, Bardoll, and wantsts 
Wa ceaveration which Uirows some Light on the action of Bardell ws. Mokwick. 






































She Dickens DWictlonarg. 


83 
XXVIZ. Sam goes to Dorking, and makes the acquaintance of hie mothertn-Iaw and the 
Rev. Mr, Stigetns, and alto has au interview wih Mr. Weller, senior.— XXVIIL The 
Tiekwicksans and Sam Weller go t» Dingley Doll, and attend the wedding of Mr. Trandie 
wh uialatballa Wardle; Se. Pickwick weeks at tho wedling-breai fast, and dancee 
ld Sirs. Wardle in the evening: Mr. Wendie ainge a“ Christmas Carvl"—=XX1X. 
Wantie relates" Tho Story of the Gobline whe stole a Sexiou."'—XKX. The Pick 
Tiaiiaas sake te acquaintance of Mz. Bon ABen and Mr. Bob Sawyer: Mr. Winkle 
SER Me skll| tn the sccompaishment of skating: Me. Pekwick's fal throagh the foe, 
‘rescuos breaking up of the party.—XXXI. Mr. Jacksou, of the house € Dedion ang 
Sanh cetmnas the @iends and servant of Mz. Mekwick; Air. Pickwick and Sam go 10 
Perkee's, Sam relating on tho way the mysterious disappearance of a respectable 
Femme 3. Perear informs 24, Fickwick that ho his reiainod Serjeant Snubbio ae 
easpeate, and is amazed ot Mr, Pickwiek's determination to se ‘thal eminent perow: 
set; Mr. Plekwick's luterriow with Serjesut Snabhin, ta whicd they are joloed by Mr 
fare Mr. Bob Sawyer, proporing to give a bachelor party, has soma trouble 
landlady: the party, getting nolay, are eedered out by Mrs. Rade, —XXXII1 
Dir. Saxe Weller, gutng to meee Bis father at the Biue Hoar, has his attention attracted by a 
Levers ar tons ; And, parobaxing paper and pens, ho indives # wasentine te 
‘Mary. whlob Mr, Weller, senior, criticlees and approves; Mz. Weller and Sain attend the 
meeting of the Brick Lane Branch of the Cnited Grand Junction Ebesever Total Absti- 
nenoe Association; Mr. tiggins also attends te a state which astonlshes the members, and 
‘causes the dlapersiog of the saeeting. — XXXIV. Commencement of the memeeable trial, 
Dantell es Pickwick; dramatic eBpot of Mrs Bandell's appearance; addres of Serjeant 
Busfuz, followed hy the examination of the witnomes, and the important testimony of Sam 
‘Wollers verdict for tho plaintift’ ~XXXY. The Pickwicklans, going te Bath, make the 
scqualntance of Capt. Dowlor, also of Angulo Orrux Dantarn, Bsq., M.C.; Sam goes on 
‘an errand to Qoven Square, and meets the resplendent footman: the tallealghe in the 
assembly-Toom at Mash, whore Mr, Pickwick dors himvolf no credit at canis. — XXXVI. 
Mr, Mickwick takes lodgings for himself and frlends in the Rayad Crescent: be tluds the 
‘Teve Legend of Pringe Wadndy" Mx, Dewler. altting up for ils wife, who lias gune tom 
party, falls asleep; on her return in asolanchalr, Mr. Winkie Is the frst person wroused, 
‘and he proceeds, in dresaing-gown and slippers, to open the door, when 1¢ ts blown to bo= 
‘hind Lim, and he rushes tnto theseduo-chalr; exciting ease of Mr, Winklo by Mtr. Bowler. 
-—XXXVUL_ Mam Weller eeortvesan invitation to a teiendly awarry "by the Bath foatinen, 
‘whied he attends andor the patronage of Mtr. John Smauker; Me. Pickwick relases to Sam 
tho story of Me. Winklo's fight, and oommisions him to tind and bring im back. — 
XXXVIIL Mr. Winklo, having fled 10 Bristol, unexpectedly finds himself fo the presence 
WE, Bob Sawyerand Mr. Bon Alien: Mr. Allen explaing to Mfr, Winklo his intentions in 
pegnri to his sister Arabella; Mr. Winkle, returning to his Rotel, ts greatly astoalshed to 
find Mr. Dowler; mutual explanation and reconedilation, —XXXIX. Sam Weller appears 
‘and undertakes to flod Miss Arabella Allens his unexpected meeting with the pretty 
Dotwsemald, through whom be dnds and has an invereiew with Miss Aen: Afr. Mokwick 
arranges and assists at & meeting betworn Mr, Winkle and Miss Arabella. and casts now 
Light on the studios of a selentide gentleman, — XL. Dr, Pickwick isarronteds Mr. Porkor 
“hits hilt, but is unable te induce him to pay thedamnnges adjudged, and Mr. Piekwhek ha 
sartied to the Fleot—XE. Sam relates the story ef the chanoery privoners Mr. Wick 
wick makes the acquaintance of Meare Mivine and Smsngle.—XLUL Mx. Sinangto'e 
Attempt Yo get possemion of Mr. Fickwick's linew is frustrated boy Sain Weller Mr. Pick 
wick is" chummed"* apou No. #7 t the third, and takes possession of his quarters, tat 
Voting bis presence Gluagreenble to hia chums, and tearing that be eww live elsewhere, 
Ie hires # roo in the coffeehouse Bight: he vaste the Toor xlde of the prison, and we 
tounlers Me. Alfred Jingle and Mr. Job Trotters Mr. Pickwick @iniseee Sam, ~ XLATE 
‘aun arrungios with his father a ttslo plan, by whieh he gots himself arrested and sent te 
the Floet as © peisoner, In which charicter he axtonishes Mr. Pickwiek.—XLEV. San 
felates ty bile niastor the atory of the man as Killed hiself on principtey'* he makee 
the aoqualatance of his cham, the cobbler Mr, Pickwick is vieited by Messrs. Tupman 
Solerans, aivt Winkle; death of the chancery prisoner. — XLV. Sam Weller ix vieltod by 
‘As father, bis mother-in-law, and the slepherd; he ls overwhelmed wit aatonistunent my 


























Ede Pickwick Papers. 


‘countering Mz. Job Trotter; Mr. Trotter Introduces Mr. Pickwick aod Sam to a" while 
Wingshop."—XLVT. Mrs, Bardelt Is visited by some friends, with whom: wad her Indger 
she ross to the Bpaniant Tea Gardens; thelr toa-party Ix interrupted by Mfr. Jackacn, of 
Dodson and Foos’s Sy whom Mrs. Bandell is carried to tho Fleet, tn execution for costs 19 
the case of Bardell ox Fickwick.—XLVIL Mr. Ferker, having recelvést notice of this 
from Sam, visits Mr, Piokwiok, Mr, and Mrs. Winkle appear, to confess thelr marriage: 
Mr. Snodgrass and Me. Tapman alag arrive; and Mr. Mokwick finally yleldato their united 
‘appeals; and coments to release himself from prison. —XLVILL. Mr. Eob Sawyer ond Mr 
Wen Allen, discissaing the prospects, business and matrimonial, of the former, ero visited 
by An sunt of the later, also ty Mr. Pickwick and Sam; Mr, Pickwick's explanation 
Feconcitet all parti¢e to the marriageaf Mia Allen with Mr. Winklo; Mr. Plokwick again 
weeets the onowyed Dagan XLIX. Ho relates “Tho Story of his Uncle."—L. Me. 
Fickwick having arranged with Mr Hen Allon to accompany bim to Tirmingbam, to 
‘¢xplain matters to the elder Mz. Winkle, is surprised at Mr. Sawyer's determination to £9 
‘sith thems bumorous conduct of that gentleinan on the Journey; the three visit Mr 
Winkie, senior; unfuvorable result of the interview. — LI. The party, returning to London, 
stop at the Sarscen's Head, Towcestor, whoro they find Mr, Potts arcival of Mr. Slurk, 
‘and desperate encounter of the rival editors. — LIl. Sam recelves nows of the death of his 
motherhiiaw, and goes to Dorking to seb bis fathor; Mr. Stiggios pays & visit of sym 
‘pathy to the widower, by whom he Is kicked out of doors, and ducked tn the horse-troah. 
LITT. Mr, Plokwick calls to consult Mr, Perkor on Me, Winkle's atfulrs, and tects Me 
‘Tingle and Job Trotter, who ually take their leave of him and of the readory Dr. Pick= 
‘wick gives Mesars. Dodson and Fogg bis opinion of their character. —LIV. ‘The fat boy 
smnounces the arrival of bis master; Mr. Wardle astoniahes Mr. Pickwick with the story 
‘of the attachment of Mr. Snodgrass, and Miss Emily Wardle; Mr. Snodgrass, visiting Mist 
‘Emily, is discovered by theft boy, who is bribed to keep tha soorets Mr. Wardle and fils 
party Tetursing earlier than expected, Mr. Saodgrass conceals himself in an Inner room, 
‘from which ho is unable to escape; unaccountable behavior of Joe, which ts explained by 
the appearance of Mr. Suograss, and his story.—LY. Me, Weller, advised by Sam, bas 
bls late witw's will probated, and selts his share In the finds, through tho aid of Wilkins 
Flasher, Eaq.—LVI. Mr. Weller, senior, consigns hls property into the hands of Ste. 
‘Plakwick Mr, Pokwick advises Sain, with lis father's consent, to marry, but Samstoutly 
refuses to leave his master; Mr. Winkle, senior, calla on his daughter-in-law, and becomes 
reconciled to hus ton's mazriage.— LVI, Mr, Pickwick announces the dlasolution of the 
‘sub; marriage of Snodgrass and Emily Wardic, and subsequent Bistory of the principal 











The Adventures of Oliver Twist. 


‘Then greater part of this tale was originally published during the years 1837 and 
1538, tn“ Bentley's Magazine,” of which Mr. Dickens was at that time the editor, 
Te wax Bogen fe tho second number (for February, 1831), and was illustrated by 
George Craftshank. On {ts completion, tt was bssued in three volumes, by Mr. 
‘Bentley- 

Te "Oliver Twist” Dickens assailed the abuses of the poorlaw and workhouse 
gqstem, Of hie more general object fa writing the work, be has himaclf given 
‘Bale accounts — 

share yet tolearn that a lewon of the purest good may not be drawn from the 
‘West er Ihave always belleved this to be a recognized and established truth, Jaki down 
‘ty the greatest men the world has ever seen, constantly sated upon by tho erentext and 
‘wireak matures, and confirmed by the reason and experience of every thinking mind. Isaw 
ereason. wren I wrote thie book, why the dregs of life, #0 long wa thelr speech did not 
‘eden the ea, should not serve the purpose of a moral, at Leask ms well as its froth and 
coum, Nor (i Goubt that thoro tay featering in Satnt Giles's ws good materials towarle 
‘dhe trait as any to de found in Saint Jammos'e, 

‘im hie wpitit, when I wished to ahow in litle Oliver the principle of good survivitg 

smrengh every adverse circumstance, and triumphing at last; and when T considered 
seeeene hat companions I could try him best.haring regard to that kind of men into whose 
pasts be would moat vaturally fall, ~ bethougbs myself of those who figure in these vol- 
emen When I camo to discuss tho wubjoct more maturely with myselGT saw many stroog 
ross for purvuing the course to which 1 was tnciined. I had read of thieves by seatee, 
Spibeeilve Peilows (aimiable for the most part), fhaltiess In dress, plump tn pecket, chores 
an hetreta, Dold In bevnng, fortanate in gallantzy, great ata song.@ bortle, pack af 
“gaia, o¢ dlow-box, and tt companions for tho bravest; but T had never met (except tm 
Wosbee, With: the miserable reality. Le appeared tome that to draw a Rnot of such am 
‘Petbie It tslmo we really do exist; vo pant theen In all thelr deformity, tm atl thelr 
prvishestnow, in all the equalld poverty of thelr tivess to show them ax they really are 
Sy Hyer hulliing uneasily throughs the dirtiest paths of lifo, with the great, black, ghast- 
“Wp palhirws elntag up thete prompect, tuen therm where thes may, —It appeared to me ti 


Pen berrive tewoclety, And thorvfore 1id tt ant best coud.” ee page 43. 








Oliver Twist. om 


CHARACTERS INTRODUCED, 


Anny. A pauper. (Ch. xxiv, IL.) 

Artful Dodger, The. See Dawkrys, Jonx, 

Barney. A villanous young Jew, with a chronic catarrh, employed 
at The Three Cripples Inn, Little Saffron Hill. (Ch. xv, xxii 
xbi, xlv,) 

Bates, Charley. A thief; ore of Fagin's “apprentices.” (Ch. 
ix, x, xii, xiii, xvi, xviii, xxv.) See Dawxus, Jou. 

Bayton. Onc of the poor of the parish. (Ch. v.) 

Becky, Barmaid at the Red Lion Inn. 

Bedwin, Mrs, Mr, Brownlow’s housekeeper. (Ch. xii, xiv, xvii 
xii, Li 

Bet, or Betsy. A thief in Fagin’s service, and « companion of 
Nancy. (Ch. ix, xiii, xvi, xviii.) See Suces, Brow. 

Bill. A grave-digger. (Ch. v.) 

Blathers and Duff. Bow-street officers. (Ch. xxi.) 

Bolter, Morris. See Crayrore, Noag. 

Brittles. A servant at Mrs, Maylic's (Ch. xxviii, xxx, xxxi, 
Mili.) See Grrxs, Mr. 

Brownlow, Mr. A benevolent old gentleman, who takes Oliver 
into bis house, and treats him kindly. (Ch. x-xii, xvi, xli, xlvi, xlix, 
B-lii.) See Fax (Mx.), Pacix, Monxs. 

Bull's-eye, Bill Sikes’s dog. (Ch. xiii, xv, xvi, xix, xxxix, xlviii, 
1) See Sixes, Brew. 

Bumble, Mr. A beadle puifed up with the insolence of office, 






iy Mrs Mann, the matron, 
small parlor with brick floor, placed 














“ You 've had s long walk, you know, or 
Now, will you take a little drop of something, Mr. Bum 








2 Ehe Dickens Dietlo 





oe 


‘Mr. Bumble coughed. 
ow Jon alte drop” aad ar, Mann porsunstvely, < 

“What is it? inquired the beadle, 

“Why, it’ what I'm obliged to keep alittle of in the house, to put In the 
Diessed Infunte? daffy when thoy aln't well, Mr. Kumble,” replied Mrs. Mans 
‘as she opened a corner cupboard, and took down a bottle and glass. “It's gin.” 

“Do you give the children day, Mrs, Mann?” inquired Bumble, following 
with lils eyes the interesting process of mixing, 

“Ah, bless ’emt that I do, dear as it ts,*replied the nurse. “I eould 1” wee 
jum euitor before my ayes, you know, ste.” 

No,” sald Bir, Bumble wpprovingly; “no, you could not, You are « hu 
mane woman, Mrs. Manu.” (Here she set down the glass.) “I shall take ax 
early opportunity of mentioning It to the Board, Mre. Mann.” (Ie drow it 
towards hits.) ‘You feel ae a mother, Mfrs. Maun.” (Ho stirred the gin snd 
water.) “IT drink your health with cheerfulness, Mrs, Mannj” and he 
swallowed half of it. 

“And now about business," sald the beadle, taking out a leathern pocket- 
Dook. “The child that was half-baptizod, Oliver Twist, f4 eight years old to- 

” 

“Bless him1” interposed Mre. Mann, inflaming her left eye with the corner of 
her apron. 

‘And notwithstanding an offered rewant of ten pound, which was after: 
wards Increased to twenty pound; notwithstanding the most superlative, and, 
I may say, supernat’ral exertions on the part of this parish,” ead Bumble, 
‘wo have never been able to discover who ts his futher, or what is his mother's 
settlement, name, or condition.” 

Mrs. Mann ralved her hands In astonishment, but added, after a moment's 
reflection, * How comes he to have any vame at all, then?” 

‘The bendie drew himself up with great pride, and sald, “I inwented (t." 

“You, Mr. Bumble?" 

“1, Mee. Mann. Woe name our foundiin’s In alphnbetieal order. The last 
was a 8,—Swubble: I named him. This was a T,—Twist: F named Kim, 
The next one ax comes will bo Unwin, and the next Viking. ¥ hare got names 


ready made to the end of the alphabet, and all the way through it again, whem 
weeome to Z" 


Why, yon "re quite a literary character, sir,” sald Mre, Mann. 

“Well, well” wale, the bendle, evidently gratified with the compliment; “pers 
hapt T may be, perhaps F may be, Mrs. Mann.” He finished the gin aud wa- 
ter, and added, “Oliver being now tro olf to remain here, the Board hare 
ditermined to have him back into the bouse; and I here come out myvelf to 
take lim there: so let me see bim at once 

Mrs. Corney being matron of the workbouse, and the death of Mr. 
Slout, the master of the establishment, being daily expected, Mr, Bum- 
ble, who stands next in the order of succession, thinks it might be a 
ood opportunity for “a joining of hearts and héusekeepings.” Wirh 
this idea in his mind, he pays the lady a visit, and, while sho is out of 
the room fora few moments, counts the spoons, welgis the sugartongs, 
~losely inspects the silver milk-pot, takes a mental inventory of the 
furniture, and makes himself acquainted with the contents of a chest 









































~ 


Ol(ver Swist 98 


ive 


of drawers. Upon her return, after some billing and cooing, she 
says “the one little, little, little word” he begs to hear, and bash- 
fully consents to become Mrs. Bumbie a8 soon as ever he pleases. 
But the course of Mr. Bumble's love doos not ran smooth after 
marriage; for his wife turas out tobea thorough shrew. When the 
first tiff occurs, Mrs. Bumble bursts into tears, but they do not serve 
to soften the heart of Mr. Bumble; for he smilingly bids her keep =~ 
on. “It opens the lungs," be tells ber, “washes the countenance, 
exercises the eyes, and softens the temper: so ery away." When, 
| however, she changes her tactics, boldly flies at him, and gives him 
a sound and well-merited drubbing, he yields incontinently, and 
Indalges in sad and solitary reflections. “I sold myself,” he says, 
“for six tea-spoons, a pair of sugartongs, and a milk-pot, with a 
smail quantity of second-hand furniter, and twenty pound in money. 
1 went very reasonable, cheap, —dirt cheap.” 

‘This procious pair are afterwands guilty, — first, of sclling certain 
articles which were left in the workhouse by the mother of Oliver 
‘Twist, and which are necessary to his identification; and, secondly, 
of witnessing what they suppose to be the destruction of these 
articles. Brought before Mr. Brownlow, they are confronted with 
proofs and witnesses of their rascality; but Bumble excuses himeef 
by saying, “It was all Mrs. Bumble, She would do it.” 

“That is no excuse,” replied Mr. Brownlow, You were prosmnt on the oc 
‘easion of tho destruction of these trinkets, and, indeed, are the more guilty of 
the two, In the eye of the law; for the law supposes that your wife acts under 
your direction.” 

* If the law supposes that,” said Mr, Bumble, squeezing tis hat emphatioally 
Indoth hands, “the law if aes, a ldlot. If that 's the eye af the law, the law*s 
bachelor; and the worst I wish the law ts, that his eye may bo opened by ex- 
perience, —by experience.” 

Notwithstanding this disclaimer of any personal responsibility 
in the matter, Mr. Bumble loses his situation, and retires with his 
wife to private life, (Ch. iin, vil xel, xxi xxxvil, xexiil IL), 
See Dicx (Lirrun), Twrer (Oriven). rt in heer 

Servant to Mra, Sowerberry; afterwards married to 
Noah Claypole. (Ch. ivvi, xxvii, xlii, Hii. 
Uhitling, Tom, An “apprentios” of Fagin’s; a “half-witted 
dupe,” who makes a rather unsuccessful thief. (Ch, xviii, xxvy 
xxxix, 1.) 
Claypole, Noah. A chuckle-headed charity-boy, apprenticed 
te Mr. Sowerberry the undertaker. Ho afterwards goes to Lon 























oo The Wickens Mictlonary. 
doo, and becomes © thie (Ch. y, vi, xvi alli, abi, ale 


axlvis litt.) 
, Mra. Matron of s workhouse; afterwards married to Mr. 

Bamble. (Ch. xxili, xxiv, xxvii, can IL) See Bue 

Bie, Me. 3 

Crackit, Toby. A housebreaker“(Ch. xxiii, xaxix, |.) 


John, 

pocket in the service of Fagin the Jow. When Oliver Twist runs 
away from his master, and sets out for Lomion, he mects the Art- 
fal Dodger on the road, who gives him something to est, and after. 

Sotto oe 
* Don's fret your eyelids SLegrhenl beg ypaurreed “Te got to be 
lodgings for nothink, and sak for the change; that Is, 
eter ik nn oa Ob, nol 
‘Not In the least! By mo means! Certataly not!” * 

Although the Dodger is an adept in thieving and knavery, he is 
detected at last in attempting to pick a gentleman's pocket, and is 
sentenced to transportation for life. While in court, he maintains 
his accustomed coolness, impudently chaffa the police-ollicers, asking 
tho jailer to communicate “the names of them two files as was on 
tho bench,” and generally “doing full justice to his bringing-up, 
ani establishing for himself a glorious reputation.” When brought 
into court, ho requests to know what he is “placed in that ‘ere dis- 
graceful sitivation for.” 

** Hold your tongue; will you?" said the Jailer. 

“Tm an Englishman, ain't £?” rejoined the Dodger. “Where are my 
privileges?” 

You 'it get your privileges soon enough,” retorted the jailer, “ and pepper 
with tom." 

“ Well see wot tho Secretary of State for the’ Home Affairs hax got to say 
to the beaks, if I don’t,” replied Mr. Dawkins. “ Now, then, wot is this here 
Yusiness? Tahall thank the madg’strates to dispose of this here Uttle affair 
and uot to keep me while they read the paper; for I've got ®n appointment 
with m gentleman in the city : and as J’m a man of my word, and wery punctual 
In business-matters, ho ll go away if I ain’t there to my time, and then, p'r’aps, 
there won't be wn action for damage against those as kept me mway. Oh, no; 
cortainly not!” 

‘The evidence against him is direct and conclusive ; but the Dodgy 
er continues unabashed; and, when the magistrate asks him if he 
has any thing to say, he affects not to hear the question. 

* Do you bear his worship ask you if you "ve any thing to say?” inquired the 
-alllr, nudging the ailent Dodger with his elbow. 

















Ollver Twist. on 


“ Theg your pardon,” sald the Dodger, looking up with an alrof abstraction. 
‘+ Did you redress yourself to me, my man?” 

“ Lnover pee such ma out-and-out young wagabond, your worship," obserred 
the officer with a grin. “Do you mean to say any thing, you young shaver?” 

* No," replied the Dodger, “not here; for this ain't the shop for Juations 
‘Desides which, my mttorney Is a-breakfnsting thls morning with the wlee-prea- 
Gent of the house of commons. But I shall have something to say elewhera, 
‘k0d #0 will ho, and xo will awery numerous and ‘¢pectable clrele of nequalnt- 
‘ance, a4 "Il make them beaks wish they'd nerer been born, or that they" 
‘got their footmen to hang 'em up to thelr own hiat-pegs afore they let ’em come 
‘out this morning to try it on upon me, "1" — 

+ There! hes fully committed,” interposed the clerk. “ Take him away.” 

“ Cume on,” said the jailer. 

“Oty, ah! I'l come on," replied the Dodger, brashing his bat with the palm 
of his hand. “ Ah” (tothe bench) it's no use your looking frightened: I 
won"t show you no mercy, —not aha’porth of it. You tl pay for thls, my fine 
fellers, 1 wouldn't be you for something! I wouldn't go free, now, If you 
‘was to fall down on your knees and ask me. Here, carry me off to prison! 
‘Take me away!” 

‘With these last words the Dodger suffered himself to be Tod off by the ool 
Jar, threatening, till he got Into the yard, tomake s parliamentary *asiness of 
If, and then grinning tn the officer's face with great glee and self-approval. 


xvi, xviii, xix, xxv, xxxix, xl 

Dick, Little. Companion of Oliver Twist at a branch workhouse 
where infant paupers are tended with parochial care. (Ch. vik 
xvii.) ONT ay 

Dodger, The Artful. See Dawxtxs, Jonx. 

Duff. A Bow-street officer. See Buatiuens and Dorr. 

Fagin, A crafty old Jew, a receiver of stolen goods, with a num- 
ber of confederates of both sexes, He also employs several boys 
(styled “ apprentices”) to carry on « systematic trade of pilfering. 
After 3 long career of villany, he ia sentenced to death for complie 
city ins murder. Having been taken to prison, he is placed in 
one of the “condemned cells,” and left there alone. 

‘He sat down on a stone bench opposite the door, which served for seat and 
‘bedatead, and, carting his bloodshot eyes upon the ground, tried to collect his 
thoughts. After n while, le began to remember a fow disjointed fragments of 
‘what the Judge had said. thought it had seemed to him at the time that he could 
hot hear a word. ‘These gradually fell into thelr proper places, and, by degrees, 
suggested more; so that in a little time he had the whole almost me It was deliv 
ered. ‘To be hanged by the neck till hewas dead: that was theend,—to be 
hanged by the neck tilt he was dead, 

Asit came on yery dark, he began to think of all the men be had known who 
hiad died upon the seaifuld,—some of them through his means. They rose up 
tamuch quick succession, that he could hardly count them. He had seen some 


of them die, and joked, too, because they died with prayers upon thelr lps. 
With what a raitling nolve the drop went down! and how suddenly they 


hanged from strong and vigorous men to dangling heaps of clothes! 














96 The Dickens Mictionacs. 


Some of them mizht have Inhabited that very cell, —sat upon that very epot. 
Se was very dark: why did wt they bring @ light? The cell had been ballt for 
many years, Scores of men must have psssed thelr last hours there. It was like 
sisting In m vault strewn with dead bodies, — the cap, the noose, the plnioned 
‘arms, the fices that he knew even beneath that hideous veil. — Light, light! 

At Jength, when bis hands were raw with beating ogninst the heavy door and 
‘walls, two men appeared, one bearing a candle, which he thrust Esto an trom 
candlestick fixed against the wall, and the other dragging in a mattress op 
Which to pass the night; for the prisoner was to be left alone no more. 

‘Then came night,— dark, dismal, sient night. Other wretches are glad to 
Rear the chureh-clocks strike; for they tell of life and coming day: to the Jew 
they brought despair, The boom of every iron bell came laden with the one 
teep, hollow sound,—death. What availed the noise and bustle of cheerful 
morning, which penetrated even there, to him? It was another form of knell, 
with mockery added to the warning, 

‘The day passed off, Day!—there was no day: it was gone as soon as come; 
and night came on again,—night #0 long, and yet a0 ahort; long in ite dreadful 
silence, and short in tts fleeting hours. At one time he rared and blasphemed; and 
at nnother howled, und tore his hair, Venerable men of kis own perscasion had 
come to pray beside him; bat he had driven them away with curses. They renewed 
their charitable efforts, and he bent them off, 

Saturday night. He had only one night more to live; and, as he thought of this, 
the day broke, —Sunday. 

‘Tt wns not antil the night of this Inst avwfil day, that a withering sense of his 
Lelpless, desperate state came fn its fill Intensity upon his blighted soul; not that 
ho had erer held any defined or positive hope of merey,but that he had never been 
able to consider more than the dim probability of dylog #oa00n, He had xpoken 
little to either of the two men who relieved each other in thelr attendance upon 
iim; and they, for thelr parts, made no effort to rouse his attention. He had sat 
there, awake, but dreaming. Now he started up erery minute, and, with gasping 
mouth and burning skin, hurried to and fro, in such @ paroxysm of fear and wrath, 
that even they —used to such sights—Trecolled from lima with horror. He grew »0 
terrible, at Inst, in nll the tortures of his evil conscience, that one man could not 
bbenr to sit there eying him alone; and so the two kept wateh together. 

He cowered down upon his stone bed, and thought of the past. Ie had been 
wounded with some missiles from the crowd on the day of his capture, und his 
head was bandaged with a linen cloth. His red halr hung down upon his bloodless 
face; hia beard was torn, nnd twisted Into knots; his eyes shone with a terrible 
Hght; bis unwashed desh crackled with the fever that burnt himup, Elght—nine 
ten. If it was nota trick to frighten him, and those were the real hours treading 
‘on each other's heels, where wou'd he be when they came roand again! Kleven! 
Another struck before the voice of the prerious hour had cessed to vibrate, At 
tight he would be the only mourner In his own funeral-train: at eleven — 

‘Those droadtul walls of Newgate, which havo hidden +o much mixery and uch 
‘snspeaksblo anguish, not only from the eyes, but, too often and too long, from the 
thoughts, of men, never held so dread a apectacle as that. ‘The few who lingered 
as thicy passed, and wondered what the man was doing who was to be hung to-mor 
row, Would have slept but fll that night if they could have soen hit. 


Late at night, Mr. Brownlow appears with Oliver Twist at the 
wicket of the prison, and, presenting an order from one of the sheriffs 
bs immediately admitted, and conducted to Fagin’s cell. 














Oliver Tw st. 


| ‘The condemned criminal was seated on his bed, rocking himself from sido to 
Hie, with countenance moro like that of « snared boaxt than the fice of m man, 
Wis miod was evidently wandering to his old iifo; for he continued to mutter, 
without appearing conscious of their presence otherwise than as a part of ir 
tision. 


“Good boy, Charl+y,—well done!” he mumbled. “Oliver too, ha, ha, ha 
Oliver too,—quite the gentleman now, quite the— Take that boy away to bed!* 

‘The Jailer took the disengaged hand of Oliver, and, whispering him not to be 
alarmed, looked on without speaking. 

“Take bic: away to bed!” eried the Jew. “Do you hear me, some cf you? 
Ho hax been tha—the—somohow the cauro of all this, Tk forth the monty to 
bring him up to tt. olter’s throat, Bill, —nover mind the girl, —Bolter's throat, 

omy 





“That emo” cried the Jow, falling instantly into the attitude of listening he 
had assumed upon his trial. “An old man, my lord,—a very old, old man!” 

“Here,” said the turnkey, laying his hand upon hix breast to keep him down, — 
“her ’s somebody wants to see you, to ask you some questions, I suppose. Fas 
gin, Pagin! Are youa man?” 

“1 ahan't bo ono long,” replied the Jove, looking up with a face retaining no 
‘human expression but rago and terror. ~ Strike them all dead! What right haye 
they to butcher me?” 

As ho spoke, he caught sight of Ollver nud Mr. Brownlow, Shrinking to the 
farthest corner of the scat. he demanded to know what they wanted there. 

“Stealy,""aald the turnkey, sull holding him dows. “Now, sir, tell him what 
‘You want,—quick, If you please; for he grows worse ws the timo gets ou," 

© You hare some papers,” sald Mr. Brownlow, advancing, “which were placed fn 

hands, for better security, by a man called Monks 

“Jt "4 all a lle together," reptiod tho Jew. *T havo n°t one, —not one.” 

“For the love of God,” sald Mr. Brownlow solemnly, “do not say that now, 
‘spon the very verge of death, but tell me whore they are. You know that Sikes 
Ig.dead; that Monks has oonfesed; that thore is no hope of any further gain, 
‘Whore aro those papers?” 

“Oliver, cried the Jew, beckoning to him. “Here, here! Let me whisper to 











you.” = 
“Tam not afraid,” said Oliver in « loud voloe, as he relinguished Mr. Brown 
hand, 


“The papers,” sald the Jew, drawing him toward him, “are ina canvas bag, ta 
‘whole alittle way up the chimney in the top frout-room. I want to talk to you, 
tay dear, want to talk to you." 

“Yes, yes” returned Oliver. “Lot me saya prayer. Do! Say only one, upow 
jour knees, with me, and we will talk till morning.” 

Qutaide, outside,” replied the Jew, pushing the boy before him toward th 
door, and looking vacantly over lilshead. “Say I?ve gone tosleep: they 7 belleve 
you. You can get me out, If yoo take me 40, Now then, now then 1" 

“© God, forgive this wretched man!” cried the boy with o burst of tears. 

That's right, that's right.” sald the Jew. “That'll help us on. ‘This doct 
rst. If Tshake and tremble as we pass the gallows, don't you mind, but hurry 
99. Now, now, now!” 

“Hare you nothing else to ask alm, alr?” inquired the turnkey. 

‘No othier question,” replied Mr. Brownlow “LX hopod we could recall him 
P & ponse of his position” — 
’ 














Fi Mk ee et es et ei; inetd 
ee ot ae S Ses a ee eer ef Etc 
(ee Dade Rog Se ee * iver Dee ens im come of 
ee ee ee ee Sb es ed ee set 
en twee oes ee al ee wi ame before 
Gee Se ree a i es et Lomi dite Biel, the home 
eer St sempelid ermerw Mo Jestce Laing thom dice 

Ulbee Dest ctmesed it dealing a bumiiercited fom Mr. 
Gewniow @ be em quenly wading ot a erst, & broezht: 
Qetde Mi, Bae tie cmd: Mb Smeniiw appearing as witness. \ 

‘a Pag enone, wi a ge gen hd, aad what 
Dank grog ae mek ale A Dek Sle Mee was cera, ad 
alee taiaend HE ee ame nak at ee al of ining rather mere than 
wee Ree EO A re age ae a agmiuet Bis cusnie 
i el 

Chm ak gpeneitenie Aewenk Meraibnelh. anh mivamng tw the magistrates 
ek ah, ting toeennatn im nen ~ Ca oy Raawe and address, sir.” 
Le ae Th A eH Mi A aN polite and genthemanly 
ell 

Yom a  Shemenen ite MD Ag ae a hake momeet perealng a tating 





SMR eae en oa My Hag 
ancienoman euch some spre to la ead. 
“caput sai ME Eakiny Comming the card comempluousty away with the 
wererngrey ite ie nie fellow 2” 





Ollver = 





rt. 99 


“ My name, str,” sald the old gentleman, speaking Lite a gentleman, and conse- 

f ‘quently in strong contrast to Mr. Fang,—* my name, str, fs Brownlow. Permit 

te to {nquire the name of the magistrate who offers a gratuitous and unprovoked 

fosult to « respeotable man, under the protection of the bench.” Saying thls, Mr. 

Brownlow looked round the office as if In search of some pereon who could afford 
bblm the reyutrod information, 

“Oficer,” sald Mr. Fang, throwing the paper on ono side, “what °¢ this fellow 
charged with?” 

“He %s not charged nt all, your worshfp,” replied the officer. “Ie appears 
‘against the boy, your worship.” 

Mis worship know this perfectly well; but It was a good annoyance, amd n safe 
one. 

“Appears against the boy, does he?” sald Fang, surveying Mr, Brownlow eon- 
temptaously from bead to foot,“ Swear him." 

“Before Tam sworn, I must beg to aay one word,” said Mr. Brownlow; “and 
that is, that I never, without actual experience, could have believed ” — 

“Wold your tongue, sir!” sald Mr, Fung peremptorily. 

“Twill not, sir!” replied the spirited old gentleman. 

“Hold your tongue this inatant, or Il hnre you turned ont of the offic!” 
sald Mr. Fang. “You're an insolent, impertinent fellow. How dare you bully 
wmagistrate?” 

“What?” exclalmed the old gentleman, reddening, 

“Swear this person!" sald Fung to the clerk. “Il not hear another word, 
Swear him!” 

Mr. Brownlow's indignation was greatly roused; but, reflecting that he might 
i Injure the boy by giving vent to it, he suppressed Lis feelings, aud submitted to 
fr be morn at once. 

“Now,” sald Fang, “what % the charge against this boy? What have you got 
to say, oir?” 

“Twas standing at a book-stall,” Mr, Brownlow began, 

“ Hold your tongue, air!” said Mr. Fang. © Policeman! — Where 's the pollee- 
man? Here, swear this man. Now, polleeman, what la tla?” 

The policeman, with becoming humility, related how he had taken the charge; 
how he had rearched Oliver, and found nothing on his person; and how that was 
all he knew about it, 

“Are there any witnosses ?” inquired Mr. Fang. 

‘None, your worship,” replied the policeman. 

“Mr. Bung sat allent for some minutes, aud then, turnlog round to the prose 
eutor, sald Inn towering passton,— 

Do you mean to state what your complaint against this boy fs, fellow, oF do 
you not? You have been sworn. Now, if you stand there, refuslng to glre evi 
dene, £1 punish you for disrespect to the bench : I will, by”— 

By what or by whom nobody knows; for the clerk and jailer coughed very 
toud Just at the right moment, and the former dropped « heavy book on the floors 

* thus preventing the word from betng heard, — accidentally, of course, 

With many interruptions and repeated insults, Mr. Brownlow contrivad to 
state his case; observing, that, {a tho surprise of the moment, be bad run after the 
toy becanse he saw him running away; and expressing his hope, that if the magis 
{rate should believe hia, although not actually the thlef, to be connected with 
Aldieves, he would deal as leniently with him ws justice would allow. 

“He bas been hurt already,” said the old gentleman fn conelusion, “And 1 
Rar,” be added with great energy, looking towards the bar, ~ ‘I really fear thas 
‘he fn very iil.” 





























100 Che Bickens Mictlonarp. 


Oh, yest I dare say,” said Mr. Fang with a sneer, “Come, none of yous 
tricks here, you young vagabond: they won't do. What "s your name! 

Oliver tried to reply; but his tongue failed him. Ho was deadly pale; and 
the whole pince seemed turning round and round. 

“What "s yourname. you hardened scoundrel ?™ thnndered Mr. Fang. “ O6 
flcer, what's hile namo?” 

This was nddreaged to m bluff old fellow In m striped walstocat, who was 
standing by the bar. He bent over Oliver, and repeated the inguiry; bat Gind- 
ing him really incapable of understanding the question, and knowing that his 
not replying would only infurriate the magistrate the more, and add to the 
severity of his sentence, he hazarded « guess. 

“He says his name "s Tom White, your worth{p,” sald this kind-hearted 
thlef-inkor. 

“ How do you propose to deal with the case, sir?” inquired the clerk in a 
Jow voice. 


wy Bammatly,” replied Mr. Fang. “fe stands committed for three months, 
band labor, of course, Clear tho office," 

‘The keeper of the book-stall, however, who saw the affair, and 
knows that Oliver is not guilty, just at this moment hastily enters 
the room, demands to be heard, and testifies that it was not Oliver, 
but his companion (the “Artful Dodger”), who picked Mr. Brown- 
low’s pocket ; and that Oliver, apparently much terrified and aston- 
ished by the. proceeding, ran off, was pursued, knocked down, 
arrested, and taken away by a police-oflicer. This evidence, though 
unwillingly received by the magistrate, acquits the boy, who is come 
passionately taken by Mr, Brownlow to his own house, where he is 
lnid up with fever, and is carefully nursed till he recovers. (Ch. xi.) 

\ Fleming, Agnes. Mother of Oliver Twist. (Ch. i, lili.) 

Fleming, Rose, See Martie, Roar. 

Gamfield. A chimney-sweep. (Ch. iii.) 

Giles, Mr. Mrs. Maylie’s butler and steward. Two burglars, Sikes 
and Crackit, attempt to break into Mrs. Maylie’s house, one night, 
but, being alarmed, retreat in haste, and are followed in a most val- 
iant manner by Giles and his fellow-servants, When a short dis 
tance from the house, however, they stop very suddenly, under in- 
structions from Giles. 


“My advice, or, leastways, I should say, my orders, Is,” sald the fattest man 
of theparty, “that we mediately go home again 

“Tam agreeable to any thing which Is agrecablo to Mr. Giles," sald n shorter 
‘Man, who was by no means of a lim figure, and who was very pale in the fac, 
ana very polite, a9 frightened men frequently are. 

“Tehould n’t wish to appear Gimannered, gentlemen,” said the third, whe 
had called the dogs back. ‘ Mr. Giles ought to know.” 

“Certainly,” revlied the shorter man; “and, whatever Mr, Giles says, It lem’ 
Gut plsce to contradict hin. No, no, E know my sitiwation,— thank my stare, 1 
know my sitiwation.” To tell the truth, the little man did seem to know bis 








Oliver Twist. 101 


‘tuation, n1dto know perfectly well that it was Seen ee one, 
for his teeth chattered in his head as he evoke. 

“You are afraid, Brittles,” said Mr. Ques. % 

“ Tatn’t," said Brittlos, ie * 

“You are,” said Giles. ’ 

You ‘re = faleeliood, Mr, Giles," sald Brittles, 

“ You ’re a lie, Brittles,” said Mr. Glles. 

Now, these four retorts arove from Dir, Gilews taunt; and Mr, Giles's turn 
‘had arisen from his indignation ot having the responsibility of going homme ngaim 
{imposed upon himself under cover of n compliment. ‘The third man brought 
the dispute to » clove most philosophically. 

“Til tell you what it ts, gentlemen,” raid ho, wo ’re all afrald.” 

“Speak for yourself, sir,” vald Mr. Giles, who was the palest of the party. 

“80 I do," replied the man. “It’s natural and proper to be afrald under 
auch circumstances: Z am. 

“So am 1,” aald Briteles 
ably" 

‘These frank atmissions softened Mr. Giles, who at once owned that he was 
‘afraid; upon which they all three faced about, and ran back again with the eom- 
pletest unanimity, till Mr. Giles (who had tho shortest wind of the party, und 
‘was encumbered with a pitchfork) most handsomely tnsisted upon stopping to 
make an apology for ilk hastinesa of speech. 

‘But it's wonderful,” sald Mr. Glos, when he hind explalned, “what a man 
will do when his blood ts up. I should have committed murder, I kuow I 
should, If we'd canght one of the rascals.” 

As the other two were impressed with @ similar presentiment, and their 
‘blood, like lis, had all gone down again, some speculation eusued upon the cause 
of this sudden change in their temperament. 

“T know what it was,” said Mr. Giles: *{t was the gate!” 

#T should n't wonder if It was!” exslaimed Brittles, catehing at the idea. 

You may depend mpon it,” sald Giles, + that that gate atopped the low of 
the exeitement, I feltall mine suddenly going away as I was cllmblug over tt." 

By wremarkable coincidence the other two bad been visited with the same 
‘wopleasint xensation at that precio moment: so that It was quite conclusive 
that it wns the gate, especially as there was no doubt regarding the time ut which 
the change had taken place, because all thece remembered that they had come 
tu sight of the robbers at tho very instant of its occurrence. 


(Ch. xxviii-xxxi, xxxiv, xxxy, lili.) 


Grimwig, Mr. An irascible but warm-hearted friend of Mr, 
Brownlow’s. He is thus introduced :— 


At.this moment there walked tnto the room, supporting himsel€ by a thtck 
atick, a stout old gentleman, rather lame in one leg, who was dressed in w blue 
cont, striped walatcoat, nankeen breeches and galters, aufl a broad-brimmed white 
Dat with the sides turned up with green, A very small-plaited whirbfrill stuck 
at from lls waistcoat, and a very lovg steel watch-chaln, with nothing but « 
kop at tho end, dangled Joos-ly below it. ‘The ends of hia white neckerehiot 
‘were twisted into n ball about the size of au orange: the variety of shapes into 
‘which his countenance was twisted defy desersption. He had « munver of serew~ 
fog his head round on one aide when he spoke, and looking out of the corncrs 
of bis eyes at the same time, which irresistibly remindea the beholder of « 

- 











‘only there’s no call to tell a man be fs, #0 bounce- 








102 (chens Dictfonary. 


parrot, fu thisqititude he fixed himself the moment he made hie appearanien* 

nnd, bok{fng’out a email ploce of orange-peel mt arm'elength, exclaimed fn « 

growllyg.qitcontented voice, — 

*-* Look here! do you see thie? Is n’t tt = most wonderful and extraordinary 

«tile that ¥ can’t call at a man's house, but 1 find n piece of this cursed poor: 

“quegton’efriend on the stalresse? I Ye been lamed with orange-peel once ; nnd 
“know orange-peel will be my death at last, It will, sir: orangepect will be 
my death, or k "l be content to eat my own head, wir!” This was the handsome 

with which Mr. Grimwig backed and confirmed nearly every assertion 
that he made; aud [t was tho more singular in hls ease, because, even aduitting, 
for the ake of argument, the possibilit / of scientific Improvements being ever 
brought to that pass which will enablos gontteman to eat his own head, In the 
event of his being #0 disposed, Mr. Grimwig's bead was such particularly 
Jnrge one, that the most snngulue man alive could hardly entertain w hope of 

\_ being able to get through It at # eltting, to put entirely out of the question a 
‘very thiek coating of powder, 

(Ch. xiv, xvii, xii, 1, Uh) 

Kags, A returned transport. (Ch. 1) 

Leeford, Edward. See Moxxs. 

Limbkins, Chairman of the workhouse Board. (Ch, ii, iii) See 
Twist, Onrver. 

Lively, Mr. A salesman in Ficld Lane, and a dealer in stolen 
goods. (Ch. xxvi.) 

Losberne, Mr., called “Tux Docror.” A friend of the Maylic 
fimily; a surgeon, fat rather from good humor than good living, 
and an eccentric bachelor, but kind and large-hearted withal. (Ch. 
xxix-xxxvi, xli, xlix, li, 1) 

Mann, Mrs, Matron of the branch workhouse where Oliver Twist 
is“firmed.” (Ch. i, xvii.) See Busate, Mr. 

Martha. A pauper. (Ch. xxiii, xxiv, li.) 

Maylie, Harry. Son of Mrs Meylie; afterwards married to his 
fostor-sister, Rose. (Ch. xxxly-xxxvi, li, lili.) 

Maylie, Mrs, A lady who befrionds Oliver Twist. (Ch. xxix- 
xxxi, xxxiii, xxxiv, xli, li, lilt.) 

Maylie, Rose, Her adopted daughter; an orphan, whose true 
pane is Rose Fleming, and who turns out to bo Oliver Twist's aunt. 
(Ch. xxviii, xxix, xxx-xxxili, xxxyv, xxxvi, xl, xli, xlvi, li, Hil) See 
Sixes, Bin. * 

Monks. A half-brother of Oliver Twist, His real name is Rdward 
Leeford. His fathor, while living apart from hia wife, from whom 
he has long ben eoparated, scos and loves Agnes Fleming, daugh 
ter of a rotired naval officer. Tho result of their intimacy is » 
ebild (Oliver), who is born while Mr. Lecford is in Rome, where he 








Oliver Swlst. 108 


4s enddenly taken ill, and dies. His wife and her son join bim at 
soon us they hear of his illness, that they may look after his large 
property, which they take possession of immediately upon his death, 
destroying a will, which leaves the great bulk of it to Agnes Flem: 
ing and her unborn child. Believing that this child will yet appear 
to claim hie rights, young Leeford, under the assumed name of 
Monks, endeavors to find him out, and, after a long search, diseaw- 
era that he was Lorn in a workhouse, but has left there. He pnt 
muex the boy, and finds him at last in Londan, in the den of Fagin 
the Jew, whom he makes his accomplice and confidant, giving him 
a large reward for keeping the boy insnared. The proofs of Monke’s 
villany are discovered by Mr, Brownlow ; and he is compelled to 
give up one-half (three thousand pounds) of the wreck of the prop- 
erty remaining in his hands, after which he leaves the country, and 
ultimately dies in prison. (Ch. xxvi, xxiii, xxiv, xxxvil-xxxix, 
xlix, li, 1iii? 

Nancy. A thief in Fagin’s service, und mistress to Sikes, to whom, 
brutal as he is, she is always faithful and devoted. The author 
says of her in his Prefuce, — 

Tt ls useless to disoues whether the conduct and character of the girl seems 
atural or unnatural, probable or improbable, right or wrong. IT us TRUE. 
‘Eyery man who has watched these melancholy shades of life knows It to be #0, 
Suggested to my mind long ago, by what I often saw and read of In actual tifte 
around mo, I have tracked it through many profligate and nolsome ways, and 
found it still the same. From the firvt Introduction of that poor wretch, to her 
Inying her bloody head upon the robber’s breast, there fs not one word oxagger- 
‘ated or over-wrought. It {s emphatically God’s truth; for it {s the truth he 
Weares in such depraved and miserable breasts; the hope yet lingering behind; 
the Inst fair drop of water at the bottom of the dried-up, weed-choked well. It 
Snyolves the best and worst shades of our common nature, much of its ugliest 
‘hues, and something of Its most beautiful; 4t {# «contradiction, an anomaly,am 


‘apparent impossibility; but it is a truth, Iam glad to have had it doubted; fer 
{in that eireumstance I find a sufficient assurance that it needed to be told. 


(Ch. ix, xiii, xv, xvi, xix, xx, xvi, xxix, xl, xliv-xlvil) See 

Sikes, Bina. 

Bally, Old, An inmate of the workhouse, who robs Agnes Flem- 
ing (Oliver's mother) when on her death-bed. (Ch. xxiv.) 

Sikes, Bill. A brutal thief and house-breaker, with no gleam of 
Light In all the blackness of his character. He first appears on the 
‘scene during a squabble between Fagin and the Artful Dodger, in 
which Fagin throws a pot of beer at Charley Bates. The pot misses 
ita mark; and the contents are sprinkled over the face of Sikss, who 
just then opens the door. 


Ma. 








104 Ede Dickens Blctlonacp. 


“Why! what the blazes ts in the wind now?” growled a deep roloe. “Whe 
pitched that "ere at mo? Tt "s well It 's the boer, and not the pot, as hit me, or 10 
have settled somebody, . . Wot’s itall about, Fagin? D—me, if my neckanke 
ther ain’t lined with beer! = Come in, you aneaking warmiut ; wot are you stopping. 
outside for, as if you was ashamed of your master? Como ini” 

‘The man who growled out these words was a stoutly-built fellow of about five 
‘and forty, in.a black velveteen coat, very solled drab breeches, Inco-up haf 
‘and gray cotion stockings, which enclosed m very butky pair of legs, with large 
awolling calves, the kind of fogs which in such costume always look in an wafine 
Ished and Incomplete stute without a set of folters to garalsh them, He had « 
brown hat on his head, and » dirty beichor handkerehfef round his neck, with the 
Jong frayed ends of which he smeared the beer from his fuce as he spoke, disclos- 
Ing, when he had done 40, a broad heavy countenance with a beard of three diay? 
growth, and two scowling eyes, one of which displayed various party-colored symp 
toms of having been recently damaged by a blow. 

“Come in, a ye har?" growled this engaging-looking ruflian. A white shaggy 
dog, with his fico scratched nnd torn tn twenty different places, skulked into the 
room. 


“Why did n't you come fn afore?! sald the man. “You're getting too proud 
to own mo afore company; are you? Iie down!” 

‘This command was accompanied with a kick which sent the animal to the other 
end of the room, Ite appeared well used to It, however; for he colled himeelf up 
tn a corner Fery quietly, without uttering # sound, and, winking his very {hJooking 
eyes about twenty tines in # minute, appeared to occupy himself In taking a surrey 
of the apartment. 

“What are you upto? Tl-treating the boys, you covetons, avarictous, Inesa-ti- 
able old fence?” sald the man, seating himself deliberately. “I wonder they 
don’t murder you: Zwould if Iwas them. If Ed been your ‘prentice, I'd hare 
done It long ago; and —no, I could n/t have sold you arterwards, though; for ydu're 
fit for nothing but keeping as acuriosity of ugliness in a glass bottle; and T suppose 
they don’t blow them large enough.” 

“Hush, hush! Mr. Sikes," aaid the Jew, trembling. ‘Don’t speak so loud.” 

“Nono of your mistering," reptled the ruffian; you always mean miachlef when 
you come that. You know my namo: out with ft. X shmo’t disgrace it when the 
thine comes.” 

Well, well, then, MII Sikes," sald the Jow with abject humility, “You seem 
out of humor, Bill.” 

“Perhaps Tam,” replied Sikes. “T should think you were rather out of sorte 
too, unless you mean as little harm when you throw pewter pots about, as you da 
‘when yoo blab and — 

“Aro you mad?” sald the Jew, catehing the man by the aleere, and potnting 
towards the boys. 

Mr. Sikes coutented himself with tying an tmaginary knot under his left er, and 
Jerking bis bead over on the right shoulder; » piece of dumb show which the Jew 
spponred to understand perfectly. He then in cant terms, with which his whole 
conversation was plentifully besprinkled, but which would be quite unintelligible 
Uf they were recorded here, demanded a glass of Mquor. 

“And mind you don’t poison it,” «aid Mr. Sikes, laying his hat upon the table. 

‘Thik was sald in Jest; but, if the speaker could have seen the evil leer with which 
she Jew bit his pate lip ox he turned round to the cupboard, be might have thougta 

\\ re caution not wholly unnecessary, or the wish, at ail events, to tmprove upon the 
‘iptiller’s tngenuity, not very far from the old gentleman’s merry heart. 




















Ollver Swlst 105 


After swallowing two or three glassfuls of spirits, Mr, Sikes eondesornded to 
lake some uotive of the young gentlemen ; which gracious net led tow conversation, 
In which the cause and manner of Oliver's eapture were eireumstantlally detalled, 
with fuck alterations, and improvements ow the truth, x4 to the Dodger appeared 
‘most advisable under the olreumstances, 

“Tm afraid," sald the Jew, “that he may say somethiag which will get us into 
trouble." 

“That %s very likely," returned Sikes with w muliotous grin. “You're blowed 

. 


‘upon, Fagin. 

And I''m afraid, you eo,” added tho Jow, speaking as If he had not noticed 
the interruption, and regarding the other closely as he did #0, —" I hmafruld, that, 
If the game was up with us, ft might be up with a good many more; and that te 
‘would come out rather worve for you than it would for me, my dear.” 

‘The man started, and turned fiercely round upon the Jew; bat the old gentle- 
‘mau’s shoulders were shrugged up to his ears, und his eyes were yacantly staring 
‘on the opposite wall. 

‘There was a long panes. Every member of the respectable coterie appeared 

in his own reflections, not excepting the dog, who, by a certain malicious 
licking of his lips, seemed to be moditating an attack upon the legs of the first gens 
tleman or Indy he might encounter in the street when he went out. 

“Somebody must find out what % been done ut the office,” said Mr. Sikes fn a 
much lower tone than he had takon since hy came in, 

‘The Jew nodded assent. 

“If he has n't peached, and 1s committed, there 's no foar till he comex out 
again,” sald Mr, Sikes; “and then he must be taken care on. You murt get hold 
of him sormchow." 

Agaln the Jew nodded. 

‘The prudence of this line of action, indeed, was obvious: but, unfortunately, 
there was one very strong objection to its being adopted; and this was, that the 
Doigerand Charley Bates and Fagin and Mr. William Sikes happened one and 
all toentertaln » most violent mud deep-rooted antipathy to going near @ polloe- 
office oa uny ground oF pretext whatever. 

‘How long they might have sat aud looked at each other, In a state of uncertalnty 
not the movt plensant of Its kind, tt fs difficult to aay. It Is not necessary to make 
ny guesses on the subject, however; for the sudden entraues of the two young 
ladies whom Oliver had seen on « former occasion caused the conversation to ow 
afiostr. 

“The very thing!” said the Jew. ‘Bet will gos won't you, my dear?” 

“Wheres ?" inquired the young Indy. 

“Only Just up to tho office, my doar,” eald the Jew coaxingly, 

itis due to the young Indy to say thot she did not positively affirm that she 
‘would not, but that she merely expressed an emphatic and earnest dealre to be 
‘Jiggerod” if elie would,—a polite and delicate evasion of the request, which 
shows the young Indy to have been possossed of that natural good-breeding that 
‘tannot bear to inflict upon a fellow-creature the pain of a direct and potated 
vefunad, 

‘The Jews countenance fell; and he turned to the other young Indy, who waa 
‘aarly, not to say gorgeously attired, in a red gown, green boots, and yellow earl 











Nancy, my dear,” sald the Jew (n soothing manner, " what do you say?” 
“That it won’ do: so it’s no us> a-trylog it on, Fagin,” replied Naney. 
“What do you mean by that?” sald Mr, Sikes. looking up in a surly manner, 








106 The Dickens Wletlonarg. 


“What I ear, Bill,” reptied the lady collectediy. 
“Why, you ‘re just the very persom for it,” reasoned Mr. Sikes: nobody abost. 
‘bere knows any thing of you.” 
“And as I doa’ waut "em to, neither," replied Miss Nancy in the same composed 
manner, “it’s rayther moro po than yes with me, Bill” 
‘Sikes. 


agreeable friend; for, having very recently removed into the neighborhood of Fie 
laze from tho remote but gentoel suburb of Ratcliqe, she was not under the xame 
apprehension of belg recognized by any of her numerous acquaintance. 

, With @ clean white apron tied over the red gown, and the yellow 
curl-papers tacked up under a straw bounet, — both articles of dress being prorided 
from the Jew's inexhazstible stock, — Mss Nancy prepared to Issue forth ou her 
errh 


“Stop a sluute, my dear,” said the Jew, producing a little covered basket. 
“Curry that in ome hand: It locks more respectable, my dear.” 

© Give ber adoortes to carry fe ber tother one, Fagin," said Sikes: “it looks 
eal amd geatvine tke." 

* You, yon. may dear! soit does,” sald the Jew, hanging the large street-door-key 
om the foreiinger of the young lady's right hand. “There; very good,—very go0d 
Knsoest, may vtear,” said the Jew, rabbing his hands. 

“Ob, my brother! my poor, dear, sweet, Innocent little brother!” exclaimed 
‘Miss Nancy, burvting tnto tears, snd wringing the little basket aud the street-door- 
key ta an agoay of distress. “ What has become of him? Where have they taken 
him to? Oh! do bare pity, and tet! me what 's been done with the dear boy, gen- 
Heuten: do, gonttemen; If you please, gentlemen.” 

Maving eitered these words iu @ most lamentable and beart-broken tone, to the 
Immeamurable delight of her hearers, Miss Nauey paused, winked to the company, 
rochbed smidingly roam, and disappeared, 

‘Sho Gnally discovers Oliver on the street, bent upon executing 
commission with which Mr. Brownlow has intrusted him, 

Ho was walking aloug, thinking how happy and contented he ought to feel, and 
how mach be woabl give for only ese look mt poor little Dick, who, starved and 
bewton, might be tying dead at that very moment, when ho was startled by w 
young Wotan screaming oat very load. “Oh, my dear brother!” aud he had hard- 
ly hoked up to eee whit tho matter was, when he was stopped by having a pair 
ot Armas dhrown tight round bis ncek. 

© Dow’! cried Otlver, straggting. “Let go of mo! Who is it? What are 
ea thepeing we for?” 

‘Tht Only reply to thts was a great sumber of loud lamentations from the young 
Woman who had embcaced him, aot who had got a little basket and & street-door 
‘Nee Sn hor Dawe, 

Od, my gracions |" sald the young woman, “I’ve found hit! © Oliver, 
(liver! Oh, you minghty boy, to make me suffer such distros on your account 
Dome hone, dear, como, Ob, I've Sand him! Thank gracious goodaess hear 
‘wh F'xe found bisa!" With these Incoherent exclamations the young womas 
Wursk Lote mnotiver Ut of crying, ed got wo dreadfully hysterical, that © couple of 














Olver Swlst 107 


women who came up at tho moment asked a butcher's boy, with « abiny head of 
bair anointed with suet, who was also looking on, whether he didn't think he had 
better run for the doctor. ‘To which the butcher's boy, who appeared of a Joum 
Ging, not to say Indolent disposition, replied that he thought not. 

“Qh, no, not never mind,” sald the young woman, grasping Oliver's hand: 
“I'm better now. Come home directly, you cruel boy, come!” 

“What " the matter, ma'am ?” inquired one of the women. 

“0 maam!” replied the young woman, “he ran away near » month ago from 
ls parents, who are hard-working and respectable people. and Joined a set of 
hleves and bad charactors, and almost broke his mother’s heart.” 

Young wretch!” said one woman. 

“Go home, do, you little brute!” sald the other. 

“I'm not,” replied Oliver, greatly alarmed. “Tdon’t know her, T haven't 
wot any sister, or futherand mother,either. I’m an orphan: I live wt Penton 
ville” 

“Oh, only hear kim! how be braves it out!” orled the young woman, 

“Why, tt? Nancy 1” exclaimed Oliver, who now saw her faes for the first time, 
‘snd xtartod back in irrepressible astoniahment. * 

“You see he knows mo,” cried Nancy, appealing to the bystanders. “te ean’ 
help himself. Make him come home, there "s good people, or he'lkill his dear 
mother and father, and break my heart!" 

“ What the devil's this?” sald a man barsting out of a beer-shop, with a white 
dog at his heels. “Young Oliver! Come home to your poor mother, you young 
dog! come home directly» 

“I don't belong to them; T don't know them. Help, help! erled Oliver, 
‘straggling tn the man’s powerful grasp. 

“Help!” repeated the man. “Yes; I'll help you, you young rascal! What 
books are these? You've boos a-stealing "om; have you? Give "em here!” With 
these words the man tore the volumes from his grasp, and struck him violently om 
the head. 

“That's right!” cried alooker-on from a garret-window. “That's the only 
‘way of brioging him to his senses!” 

To be sure!” cried a sleepy-faced carpenter, casting ax approving look at the 











“ It'll do him good!” sald the two women. 

And he aball have it too!” rejoined the man, administering another blow, 
nd seizing Oliver by the collar. “ Comeon, youyoungvillain! Here, Bull’soye, 
mind him, boy! mind him!” 

Weak witli recent IN}nos, stupefied by the blows and the suddenness of the at- 
taok, terrified by the flerce growling of the dog and the brutality of the man, and 
overpowered by the conviction of the by-standers that he was really the hardened 
Hittle seroteh he was described to be, what could one poor child do? Darkness had 
tet in; It was a low neighborhood; no help was near; resistance was useless, In 
another moment he was dragged into @ labyrinth of dark, narrow courts, and 
forosd along them at a pace which rendered the few cries he dared give utterance 
{, wholly unturelligible. It was of Jittle moment, indeed, whether they were in 
telligible or not; for there was nobody to care for them had they been ever #0 
plain. 


‘After taking -he boy back to the Jew’s den, Nancy, struck with his 
pale face and great grief, tries to shield him from violence. Oliver, 
determined to escape, watches for ar opportunity, and, when the door 














108 Tbe Bickers Wictlonarp. 


Is opened for a mom nt, he darts through it, followed by the Jew and 
his two pupils. Sikes's dog is also about to dash after him, when 
Nancy springs to the door, and closes it, erying, “Keep back the dog, 
Bill, keep back the doz! Ho ‘ll tear the ehild to pieces” 


“Serve him right!" cried Sikes, straggling to disengage himself from the girl's 
grasp, "Stand off from me, or 1'Il eplit your ekull against the wall!” 

“T don't care for that, Bill; I don't care for that!” screamed tho girl, stragy 
ling violently with the man. “The child shan’t be torn dowa by the dog undeaa 
you Rill mo first." 

‘“Shan’t hot" eid Sikes, setting his teeth flercely. “ll soon do that, If you 
don’t keep off.” = 

‘Tho housnbreaker flung tne gtr] from him to the further end of the room, Jost 
as the Jew and the two boys returned, dragging Oliver among them, 

“What's the matter here?” sald the Jew, looking round, 

“Tho girh's gone mad, I think," replied Sikes aavagely. 

“No, ahe has n't!” sald-Nancy, pale and breathless from the souffle: “ no, abe 
has n't, Pugin? don’t think it.” 

“Then keep quiet, will you?" sald the Jew with a throatening look. 

“No: F wont do that, either,” replied Nancy, speaking rery loud, “Come, 
‘what do you think of that?” 

‘Mr. Fagin was sufficiently well acquainted with tho manners and customs of 
that particular species of humanity to which Mies Nangy belonged to feel tolera- 
bly certain that {t would be rather unsafe to prolong any conversation with her 
at present. With the view of diverting the attention of the company, be tarned 
to Oliver, 

"So you wanted to get away, my dear, did you?” sald the Jew, taking up « 
Sngged and knotted ¢lud which Jay In w corner of the fireplace; “eh?” 

‘Oliver made no reply; but he watched the Jow’s motions, and breathed quickly 

“Wanted to got assistance; called for the police, did you?” sneered the 
Few, catching the boy by the arm. * Well cure you of that, my dear!” 

‘The Jew inflicted @ smart blow on Oliver's shoulders with the club, and was 
when the girl, rushing forward, wrested {t from his 


fire with # {oree that brought of the’ gion 
whirling out into the room, 
won't ifand by and 


faud by and sce tt done, Fagin!” cried the girl. “You %re got the 
doy; and what more would yon hnve? Let him be, let him be, or Eshall put the 
mark on eome of you that will bring me to the gallows before my time t”” 

‘The girl stamped her foot violently on the floor aa she rented this threat; snd 
with her lps compressed, and her hands clinched, looked alternately at the Jew 
‘and the other robber, her face quite colorless from the passion of rage into which 
she had gradually worked herself. 

Why ney!” eaid the Jow tn a soothing tone, after # pause, daring which 
oeand Mr. Sikes had stared at one another in a disconcerted manner, ** sou — 
you 'ro ore clover than ever to-night. Ha, bal my dear, you are acting beautl 

“Am 1?” said the girl, “Take care I don't overdo it; you will be the worse 
Gor it, Fagin, if T do: and #0 1 telt you In good time to keep clear of me.” 

‘There Is something about a roused woman, especially if sho wad to all Ler 
other strong passions the fleroe impulses of recklessness mnd despatr, whieh fow 
gen like to provoke, ‘The Jew saw that it would be hopeless to affect any furtbet 














Oliver Twist. 109 


mistake regarding the reality of Mise Nancy’s rage; and, shrinking involuntarily 
back & fow paces, cast a glanoe, halfimploring and half-cowardly, at Sikes, ms if 
‘to hint that he was the fittest person to pursue the dialogue. 

Mr. Sikms, thus tutely appealed to, and posalbly feeling bis perrount pride and 
influence mterested in the (mmediate reduction of Miss Nancy to reason, gave ut> 
terance to about a couple of score of curses and threats, the rapid delivery of 
whleb reflected great credit on tho fertility of hls invention. As they produced 
‘no visible effect on the object against whom they were discharged, however, be 
esorted to more tangible arguments. 

“What do you mean by this?” said Sikes, backing the inquiry with avery 
‘common imprecation concerning the most beautiful of human features, vhich, if Ut 
sere heard above only once out of every fifty thouxand times Jt 4s mttered below, 
would render blindness as common a disorder as meastes,—* what do you mean 
‘by it? Burn my body! Do you know who you aro, and what you are?" 

“Oh, yes! L know all about it,” replied the girl, Inughing hysterically, and 
shaking her head from side to side with a poor assumption of indifference. 

+ Well, then, keep quiet,” rejolned Sikes with a grow! like that he was soca 
tomed to use when addressing his dog, “or I'll quiet you for a good long time to 
come." 

‘The girl Inaghed aguin. even leas compovedly than before, and, darting @ hasty 
Jook at Sikes, turned her face side, and bit her lip till the blood came. 

“You *re a nico one,” added Sikes, as he surveyed her with a contemptuous 
lr, “to take up the humaue and genteel side! A pretty subject for the child, as 
‘youcall him, to make a friend of! ® 

“God Almighty help mo, Kam! "cried tho girl passionately; “and I wish 1 
hud been struck dead in the street, or changed places with them we passed 80 
near to-night, before I had lent a hand in bringing him here. He's a thief, a 
Mar, a devil, all that’s bad, from thie night forth: lan’t that enough for the old 
‘wretch without blows?" 

“Come, come, Sikes,” said'the Jew, appealing to him in a remonstratory tone, 
and motioning towards the boys. who were eagerly attentive to all that passed: 
“4we must huave civil words, civil words, Bilt!" 

“Civil words!” eried the girl, whose passion wns frightful to «ce,—<“elvil 
‘words, yon villain? Yes, you deserve "em from mo! I thieved for you when I 
wos gehild not half ax old ns this (pointing to Oliver). Ihave been in the samo 
traé and the aame service for twelve years alnce; don't you know It? Speak 
‘ont, don’t you know it?!" 

“Well, well |” replied the Jew with an attempt at pacificatio 
bare, tt’ your living.” 

“Ah, it ist returned the girl, not «peaking, bat pouring out the words in one 
sontinuous and vehement scream. “It is my living; and the cold, wet, dirty 
Mreeta are my home; and you're the wretch that drove me to them long ago, aud 
that'll keep me there day and might, day and night, til Idler’ 

“T shall do you a mischief!” interposed the Jew, gouded by these reproachey 
“a mischief worve than that, If you ray much more." 

‘The girl said nothing moro; but, tearing her hatr wnd dress in m transport of 
Tenzy, made such a rush wt the Jew as would probably have left signal marks of 
her rerenge upon kins, had not her wrists been selzed by Sikes at tho right mo- 
went; upon which she made a fow ineffectual straggler, anil falvted, 


Disrcverng a dark plot against Oliver, and hearing the name 


of Miss Maylie connected with that of the boy, Nancy determines te 
» 














and, if you 








we 





0 Fhe Wickens Mictlonarp 


sek out the lady, and warn her. She docs so, and, disclosing what a 
life she leads, ix entreated by Rose to quit it, 


“Why will you go back to compantous you paint fn such terrible colors?” . . . 

“wish to go back,” said the girl,—“1 wish to go back, because —how can I 
tell such things to an Innocent lady like you ?—becanse, among the men Ihave 
told you of, there Is one, the most desperate of them all, that I can’t leave; Boy 
not oven to be saved from the life T am leading wow." 

“Your barlng Enterfered in thle dear boy's behalf before,” sald Rowe; “your 
coming here, at so grent @ risk, totell me what you have heard; your manner, 
which convinces ine of the truth of what you say; your evident contrition aod 
sense of shame,—all lead me to believe that you might yot be reclaimed. 01 
tald the earnest girl, folding her hands as the tears coursed down ber face, “do 
‘ot turn a deaf ear to the entreaties of ous of your own sex; the flrat—the first, T 
do beliove — who ever appealed to you fn the volce of pity and compassion. Do 
hear my words, and let me save you yet for better things." 

“Lady!” eried the girl, sinking on ber knees, “dear, aweet, angel Indy, you sre 
the first that ever blessed me with much words as theso; and, if C had heard them 

ago, they might hare turned me from a life of sin and sorrow; but it 1s too 
late: it is too later" 

* It is never too late,” sald Roe, * for penitence and atonement.” 

‘Tt is," eried the girl, writhing iu the agony of her mind. “T cannot leave him 
now: I could not be his death.” 

‘hy should you be?" naked Rove. 

“Nothing could save him," erted the girl. “IfT told others what T hare told 
you, and led to thelr belng taken, he would be aure to die. Mes the boldest, aad 
uns been a0 cruel 

“Ts it possible,” eried Rose, that, for euch s man as this, you can resign every 
future hope and the certaluty of immediate rescue? It { madnoss1” 

“Tdon’t know whaé it is,” answered the girls “I only kuow that It iso; and 
not with me alone, but with hundreds of others as bed and as wretched as myxelt, 
‘T must go back. Whether it is God’s wrath for the wrong I hare done I do not 
know; but I am drawn back to bln through every suffering and tbusage, and 
‘should be, I believe, if 1 know that I was to die by his hand at last.” 


fe a AL LN ecg) A 

Wiching to impart further information aa she obtains it, Nancy 
makes an appointment to walk on London Bridge every Sunday 
aight from eleven till twelve o'clock, where Miss Maylie agrees to 
meet her, accompanied only by Mr. Brownlow. Discovering some 
thing strange in the girl's appearance, Fagin causes her to be 
watchod;-andthe disclosures she makes are overheard and conveyed 
_to"Kim by the spy; he employs. Furious with rage, the Jew imparts 
to Sikes the fact of Nancy's informing upon them. Flinging the old 
man from him, Sikes rushes furiously from the room, and dashes inta 
the silent street, 

Without one pause or moment's consideration, without once turning hls head 
to the rigt or lof, or raleing his eyes to the sky, of lowering them to the ground. 


but looking straight before lim with sarage resolution, lils teeth so tightly eon 
pressed, that the strained jaw scemed starting through hie #kin, the robber hold 














Oliver Swist. mM 


‘m bis headlong course, nor muttered a word, nor relaxed # muscle, until be 
renched his own door. He opened it softly with a key, strode lightly up the 
mairs, and, entering his own room, double-locked the door, and, lifting a heavy 
table against it, drew back the curtain of the bed. 

‘The girl was lying halfdressed upon it. He had roused her from her sleep; for 
she raised herself with » hurried aud startled look. 

“Get up!” said the man. 

“It is you, BULL!” erled the gitl, with an expression of pleasure at bis retcra. 

* Tt fay? was the reply. “Get up1” 

‘There was # candle burning; but the man hastily drew It from the eandlestlelk, 
‘aod hurled it under the grate. Seeing the faint light of early day without, the gtel 
rove to undraw the curtain. 

Lot It bet” sald Sikes, thrusting his hand before her. “Theres light enough 
for what I?ve got to do!” 

“BIN,” ald the lel tothe low voton of alarm, “why do you Joo ike tat at 
mer" 

‘The robber sat regarding her for a few seconds with dilated nostrils aud beav> 
fog Lreast, and then, grasping her by the head and throat, dragged her into the 
middle of the room, and, looking once towards the door, placed his heavy hand 
upon her mouth, 

Bill, Bill! gasped the girl, wrestling with the strength of mortal fear, “1 — 
won't scream or ery,—not ones, Hear me, speak to me, tell me what I have 
done!” 

+ You know, you she-devil,” returned the robber, suppressing his breath. "You 
were watched to-night; aud every word you said was heard.” 

“Then spare my life, for the love of Heaven, as T spared yours,” rejolned the 
girl, clinging to him. “Dill, dear Ill, yon cannot hure the heart to kill me. 
Oh! think of all £ have given up this one night for you. You shall have time to 
think, and save yourself this crime. I will not looxe my hold: you cannot throw: 
me off. Bill, Bill} for dear God's sake, for your own, for mine, stop before you 
spill my Blood! Ihave been true to you; upon my guilty soul. F have.” 

‘The man Atruggled violently to release his arms; but those of tho girl were 
clasped round his, and, tear her ax he would, he could not tear them away. 

“Bill,” erfed the girl, striving to lay her head upon his Breast, “ the gentleman 
and that dear lady told mo to-night of a home in some forelgn country, where T 
eould end my days in solitude and peace. Lat mo see them agnin, and beg thom 
‘on my knees to show the same meroy and goodness to you, and let us doth leave 
thin dreadful place, and, far apart, lead better lives, and forget how we have lived, 
except in prayers, and never see each other more, It {s never too late to repent. 
‘They told me #0: I feel it mow. But we must have time, little, Hetle time!” 

‘The hourebreaker freed one arm, and grasped his pistol. ‘The eertaluty of im 
mediate detection, if he fired, flashed across bis mind even in the midst of his fury, 
‘snd he beat it twice, with all the force he could summon, upon the upturned 1908 
‘that almost touched his own. 

‘She staggered and fell, nearly blinded with the blood that ralned down from 
cep gash In her forehead, but, ralsing herself with diificulty on her knees, drew 
frow her bosom a white handkerchief,— Rose Maslie’s own,—ana, holding it uo 
Woher folded hands as high towards heaven as her feeble strength would let her, 
sreathad one prayer for meror to her Maker, 

It wus aghastly gure co 200k upon, ‘The murderer, staggering backward 18 
the wall, and shutting out the sight with his hand, seized s heavy club, and struck 
‘er uown. 














—as 





i2 Ede Dickras Dictivzacze 


‘The murder done, Sikes flees into the commzy; bet ae = 
dering for cies ned miles in mooestary fear of exptoe, be Sealy 
emaires to retars to Leadon, thinking be can “ing br? ir awl, 
od thes cerape to Fracce. He seeks wea in on ol Gs i 
Jacct/s Island,—the fithiest, strangest, and mut orerieey of 
the many localities that are hidden in the great coy,—tat be ld 
cmpecions shrink fom him; and ume exis slend for belp to the 
Geer mod othess below, who have tracked the reffian tw bis remmean, 
‘The crowd ewarm about the building, sad exdesver, with thick and 
Ieary strokes, to break down the strong dours and windoesiemern 
‘Sikes excapes to the roof and attempts, by memxs of a rope, t Gop 
Sto 2 ditch at the back of the boase 

Roweed lato mew etreng:s and energy, and cumciaont by the mabe wathin th 
feweae, Wl anumeteed thet ef cctrene tint really Been qiiemnd, be eet bis 
flow egsinet tue etara of imorTt tarot coe eat of Se mye tyne and 
Sealy reset Hi, and wich the other made a svong romsingaoom, by the aid of 
Air hennds aud teeth. aimext ts g second. He could bt hime dees by Ge ond 
te withts & lene Gitar af the ground than bis oes bright and bed Mis Eat 
punty ty hele hand to cnt lt then end drop 

A! thee very intent thet be tooaght the loop over bis bead gestions ts stip 
feng Mf twmrach Lis arm qite end whes the old peotbeman befere somone (whe 
eno chang #0 tight to the railings of the beige ae te coeiet the fore of She 
Seed. ead rece Mts poetics) carumetty warsed those about Lime thet the mam 
wee mbes to lower Limert! dows, — gi thet very beetast, the scurdierer, Umting 
Inti ise os thee root, threw bis arms above his teed, apt sthered a ye of 
— 


~ Thee eyes agsix!” he cried te am mmearth’y screech. Staggering an if stratk 
bby Lightning. te ict hip Raden end tombied ever the parapet. The moe 
eas & bie neck ram wp with Mis wright tight = = Lowecring, end out we 
Gee arrow it speeds. He teil Sor Sve and thirty feet. Thee was a eniiies jot, 
© terre conraiiios of the lmbe; and there be beng, with the epen Kafe 
Giucted to ble ecifewing haat 

‘The ohd chimney qubvered with the chock; but & stood H Bearaty. The mer 
ever wwang Diriess ageinet the wail... 

A deg. which baad lets comccaird Uli now, res backwards and forwards oo the 
Serepes WH o Graal bow! ent qoUrcting himeetf fora rpring. Jemqedl for the 
deed comn's choshiers. Mivaing bie aim, be fell tate the Gch, txaing come 
perenty over as be went, and striking bis bead against « stone, Gucbed out bis 


Of this powerfully-deawn character, Dickens says in bis Pref- 


1: ne bows ctpected to Sikes... ,— with some tacousicteney. as Iventare 05 
(Qtek. — thet be ts cxrety overdrawn; Becacse {= him there would eqpear te be 
some of thst rederming traits which are objected to as cstamural be Sis mle 
wee OF the lacter objection I will merely any, that I Sear tere are te the 
Sort some hnermsihe end callous materes, the: @> tecoant of last, etterty OBe 
Feedeematty bed Bet whether this be eo, or mx. of cor Ging I am ortaln— 


Oliver Twist. 118 


that there are rch men as Sikes, who, belng clovely followed through tLe vame 
space of time, snd through the eame current of elreumstances, would not give, 
by one look or action of a mement, the faintest indication of a better nature. 
Whether every gentler human feeling is dead within such bosoms, or the proper 
‘chord to strike has rusted, nnd fs hard to find, Ido not know; but, that the fot 
fsao. Tam aure. 

(Ch. xiii, xv, xvi, xix-xxii, xxviii, xxxix, xliv, xlvii, xlviii, 1.) 

Bowerberry, Mr. A parochial undertaker, to whom Oliver Twist 
is apprenticed. (Ch. iv, y, vil.) See Bunter, Mr. 

Sowerberry, Mra. His wife, “a short, thin, squeezed-up woman, 
with a vixenish countenance” and disposition. (Ch. iv-vii) See 
Boonie, Mr. 

Thingummy, Mrs, An old nurse at the workhouse, who assists 
Oliver Twist into the world. (Ch. i.) 

Twist, Oliver, A poor, nameless orphan-boy, born in the work- 
howe of an English village, whither his young mother, an outeast 
and a stranger, had come to lic down and die. He is “brought up 
by band,” and “farmed out” at « branch establishment, where 
twenty or thirty other juvenile offenders against the poor-laws are 
starved, beaten, and abused by an elderly woman named Mrs. Mann. 
On his ninth birthday, Mr. Bumble, the beadle, visits the branch, 
and removes him to the workhouse, to be taught a useful trades 

‘The room (In the workhouse] In which the boys were fed was a large stone 
hall, with a copper at one ond, ont of which the master, dressed in an apron for 
‘the parpose, and nesisted by one or two women, Indied the grucl at meal-times; 
of which composition each boy had one porringer. and no more,—except on 
festive oceasions, —and then he hind two ounces and a quarter of bread besides. 
‘The bowls never wanted washing: the boys polished them with thelr spoons 
ullthey shone again ; and, when they had performed this operation (which never 
00k very long, the spoons boing neurly as large ns the bowls), they would sit star- 
‘ng at the copper with such eager eyes, as If they could devour the very bricks 
Of whieh it was composed; employing themselves meanwhile fn sucking thelr 
fingers most assiduously, with the view of catching up any stray splashes of 
gruel that might have been cast thereon. Soys have generally excellent appe- 
titer, Oliver Twist and his compantons muttered the tortures of slow starvation 
for three months; at last they got so voracious and wild with hanger, that one 
oy, who was tall for his age, and had n’t been used to that sort of thing (for 
Me futher had kept & small cook’s shop), hinted darkly to ils companions, that, 
unless he had snother basin of gruel per diem, he was afraid he should some 
‘ight eat the boy who slept next him, who happened to be a weakly youth of 
tender age. He had a wild, hungry eyo; and they implicitly believed him. A 
‘council was held. Lots were cast who should walk up to the masterafter supper 
‘that evening. and ask for more; and "* fell to Oliver Twist. 

‘The evening arrived. The boys took thelr places; the master, In his cook's 
eolferm, stationed himself at the copper; his panper ussistants ranged them, 
sclves behind him: the grucl was served out, aad along grace was said over the 
‘short commons. The grus! disappeared; and the boys whispered to each other, 

” 




















m4 She Michens Mietlonary. 


‘and winked at Ottver, while his next neighbors nudged tim. Child as he was, 
‘he was desperate with hunger, and reckless with mlsnry, He rose from the 
table, and edrancing, basin and spoon in band, to the master, said, somewhat 
slarmed st hos own temerity, — . 

© Please, alr, 1 want some more” 

‘The waster was a ft, healthy man; bat he turned rery pale. He gazed in 
stupeficd astonishment om the email rebel for seme seconds; and then clupg for 
yet Became, ‘The asslstants were paralyzed with wonder, und the boys 

What!” sald the master at leagth in a falnt rolce, 

“ Please, ale," replied Oliver “I want some more.” 

‘The master aimed a biow at Ollver's ead with the ladle, pinioned him tn hie 
‘arms, and shrieked aload for the beadle. 

‘The Board were sitting fn solemn onaclare, when Mr, Bumble rushed Into the 
room im great excitement, and, addressing the gentieman tn the high chair, anld,— 

“Mr. Limbkins, I beg your pardon, sic! Oliver Twist has asked for more.” 

‘countenance. 
“For more!” said Mr. Limbkins. “ Compose yourrelf, Bumble, and answer 


rapper allocted by the dietary?” 


ext morning pasted ox the outside of the gate, offtcing a reward of five poonds 
to aaybodty who would take Ottver Twist off the hands of the parish: in other 
‘words. dve pounds and Oliver Twist were offered to any man of woman who 
wanted an apprentice to any trade, business, oF calling. 

After serving a short apprenticeship to Mr. Sowerberry, parish 
undertaker, and being cruelly abused, he runs off, and makes his 
way, under the guidance of Mr. John Dawkins (alias the “ Artful 
Deiger™) to Loadoa, where be is decoyed into the den of Fagin, 
‘an old Jow, and a receiver of stolen goods, who employs a number 
of young persons of both sexes to carry on a systematic trade of 
thet, From this haunt of vice, where he is cautiously and grad 
wally instrwoted in the art of larceny, he is temporarily rescued (see 
Pasa), but is recaptured, and watched more closely than before to 
provent his escape. His assistance, however, being very necessary to 
the execution of a contemplated barglary, be is forced to accompany 
two confederates of the Jew (Sikes and flash Toby Crackit) on 
Ahole ewecbreaklne expedition, But the plan fails, as the family 
‘aro alarmed; aud the robbers flee, taking with them Oliver, who 
tee boom shot, and severely wounded, Being closely pursued, they 
inup the boy inte @ ditch, and dart off at fall speed. On recoves 
tug bis snees, Oliver wanilers about till he comes to the very hous 

















Olver Twist 15 


he had entered. Or. being admitted, he is kindly cared for by the 
lady of the house, Mrs. Maylie, and her niece Rose, who, on hearing 
his story, save him from arrest, and educate him and love him. The 
‘detection and punishment of the Jew and his accomplices, and the 
Mentification of Oliver through the zealous efforts of his new friends 
(among whom he finds an aunt in Rose Maylie), bring the tale to a 
happy conclusion. (Ch. i-xii, xiv-xvi, xviii, xx-xxii, xxvili-xxxvi, 
ali, li-liii.) See Bowes (Ma), Fagrs, Monxs, Sixes (Brut). 





PRINCIPAL INCIDENTS. 


‘CUAFrea I, Oliver Twist is born; ‘his mother dlex.—11. Me in “ termed” with Mx, 
‘Mann; Mr. Bumble vints Mrs Mani, expiains how Oliver received his name, and takes 
Bim 10 the workhouse; Oliver is brought before the" Board,"" and assigned to picking 
‘oakum appointed by lot among the starved buys, he asks for more,” and is daly pune 
tshedt for his temerity. —I1I1. Mr. Gamseld's negotiations for Oliver. —1¥, Str, Sowerberry 
eouveres with Sr, Bumble on pariah undertiking and Juries; takes Oliver, who—V. 
Becomen acquainted with Noah Claypote; on account of his interesting expression ot 

n* Oliver ix promoted to be m “mute,""and attonds his frst funeral. —VI- 
‘Ho knocks down Noah Claypole; the excitement caused by this exhibition of spirit. — 
‘VIL. His punishment; he rans away. — VILL. Experlonces divers hardships wad {ll-treat> 
ment; moets Jack Dawkins the Artful Dodger; pees with him to London. — IX. Heart 
Faxin’s soliloquy over a box of stolon watches and Jewelry. The” Artful Dodger" and 
‘Charley Tates report thelr success in pocket-picking at an execution. —X, Oliver goes 
‘Sut to operate with them; is arrested, — XI. His trial. —XIL His elckuess at Mr. Browne 
‘4i Mr. Brownlow visits im, and 1s surprised by hin familiar look reception of the 
Dodger and Chariey Bates by Fagin, after Oliver's arrest. —XIIL Bill Sitves, with hla dog, 
‘enters Fagin's room  thetr altercation; Nancy goes to the police-office to learn where 
Oliver is. —XIV. Mr. Brownlow's kindness to Oliver; hls converaation with him, with 
Me. Grimwig: Oliver is sont with a parcel to w bookseller, XV. He Is caught by Nancy. 
‘'=X¥L Impression produced on Fagin's thieves by hie roturn and good clothes; Oliver's 


frie at having Mr. Brownlow's money an the parvel of books taken 
tempts to run away: Nancy protects hint When relaken; herrage 
‘£agiu. —XVIL, Mr. Bumble visits the“ porochial" nursory; Dick astounds him by de- 
ring to ave some one write a note expreaing his love for Oliver, and bis wish to die; 
‘Mz, Bumble sees Mr. Brownl2w's advertisoment for Ollver, and calls on hitn; tells @ very 
ofevorable tory of Oliver's parentage and character.—XVILL. Tho * Dodgor™ advises 
Oliver to become a *prig,"* to make friends with Fagin, and to steal, because, fhe did n't, 
aciuebety €lse would; Oliver becomes acquainted with Tom Chiting, Just out of the 
‘house of cc=vetion,—XIX. Sikes and Fagin plan  barglary in which Oliver must masiet. 
XX. Pag: tolls Oliver tio must go with Sikes, and gives him a Dok of mandors to read 
“All vent for; Sancy takes him to Sikes, who gives him his tustructlons.—XX1. Thetz 
Journey. XXII, Preparations for the burglary by Sikes and Toby Crackit: Oliver's gelet 
And terror st learning thelr plan and that Be must ald m executing It; he enters the house 
‘#0Mre Maglio, 18 shot, and earned off iy Sikes and Crackit.—XXIIL Mrs, Corney makes 

‘cp of tea, and bis some refloctions over it; Mr. Jumble calle, nnd discusses tho obsth 
‘easy of paupers, and the great porochial  safecuurd,—to give them exactly what they 
tua't want; takes « cup of ton with Aire. Core, and becomes tender. — XXIV. An old 






































116 The Dickens Dictfonarg. 


pauper woman on her death-bed gives hints of a revelation concerning Oliver's motives — 
XV. A gamo of whist at Fagin’s; Toby Crckit reports to Fagin the fil-micces of che 
burplary.—XXVI. Fagin seeks intelligence of Sikes among the traders in stolen goods at 
the Throe Cripplesy at Sikes's own room ni:nost hotrays his own guilt to Nancy : bat 
s eonference with Monks, —XXVIL. Mints of ereat things that might be xald concerning 
doadies: Str. Humble, baving wolghed and counted Mrs. Corncy's silver plato while she 
was ot Old Bally's death-bed, on her return concludes his courtahip: on iy way home 
Interrupts Noah Claypole eating oyytors from Charlottes hand. XXVIIL. Abandonment 
Of Oliver by Sikes and Crackit after the burglary; conversation between Giles aud Beit 
‘es while pursuing them; Oliver recovers cousciousmess, and wanders to rhe house be had 
‘entered tho previous night; Giles’s report to the other serrants of the incklents of the 
hurglary: tn the midst of bis narrative Oliver knocks, end, after consdernble strategy, is 
Admitted. —XX1X. Mose Maylie; tho doctor comes to drem Oliver's wood. — XXX. Mra. 
Dlaylie and Rose look ot Oliver slocping, and Rove pleads for merey toward hisn; be tells 
is story; the doceor challenges Gles and Urittles to Mentify Olver ny the hoy who had 
broken nto Mra Maylie's house. XXXL Blathers and Duff examine the premises, and 
report thelr opinion of the burglary after taking some apirits they become loquacious, 
and tell how Conkey Chickweol robbed himself: they look at Oliver, and contemn Giles 
and Brittles for thelr contradictory testimony. —XXXU. Oliver expromes his graxitade to 
‘Rove; the doctor takes him to ste Mr. Brownlow, and at Chertsey Bridge rushes tnto 
‘the house Oliver poluts out as the one fram which Sikes and Crackit had gone to commit 
ho burglary; Oliver's disappointment at finding that Mr. Brownlow had gone to the West 
Indies; his duties and-delights in tho country-houee to which Mrs. Maylio moved in the 
spring. ~XXXIIT. Mov Ix taben sick; Oliver goes to the market-town with « lotter for 
the doctor: encounters Monks: Rose comes out of the eriais of her fevertolive. = XXXIV. 
Oliver, overjoyed, walks out, and Lethe renin ‘Marry tells bis mother 
Dis Tove for Rose: Glles’s gallantry t of the burglary rewarded; Oliver sleeps, 
sd dreams that Fagin and Mogks re eataing ny wakes and dpa it ragl. = XXX¥. 
‘The fruitienasoarch for them; Marry talls Tose Tix love; aho «xplaina why sbe wiuat not 
bocomo bis wif—XXXVI, The doctor and Harry Muylie lesvo Mrs Maylic's — 
XXXVIL. Mr. Humble as master of the workhouo; discussion of prerogative butween 
him and Mes. (Comey) Dumler Foto decisively in bee favor; Mr. Bumble, golug into a 
public-howe to rogain his composure, mects Monks, and makes memerous inqniriex con 
cerning Oliver's mother and sho woman who nussed her. —XXXVIIL Mr, and Mrs. Basni- 
thle go to Monks's hiding-place; Mra. Humble, after demanding and recelving twenty 
pounds, relates what Old Sally told her about Oliver's mother: hands Monks a locket con- 
tatning two locks of hair and a gold wedding-ing, which be drops throagh # trapdoor, 
‘and then dismisses Mr, and Mra Bumble. —XXXIX. Sikes recovers from a fever: Fagin 
AuG his boys bring eefreshments; Nancy goo with Fagin for some money for Sikes! +e 
overhears 4 conversation berween Fagin and Monks; gives an uplate to Sikes; oes te 
find Mim Maylie.— XL. Sho repeats what rbe heard Monks telf Fagin about Oliver Rose 
Vleads with ber to abandon her wretched course of life. —XLL. Oliver acckdentally dts 
covers Sir. Hrownlow; Rose goes to his house with Olivers Mr. Criarwig's excitement a 
Dearing her account of Oliver; Joyful surprise of Mr. Brownlow and Mes Bedwin at see- 
ing Oliver; discumion of the bent mode of clearing up the mystery of bis parentage, and 
seouring Monks. XLII. Now Claypole end Charlotte, having robbed Mx. Sowerberry, 
ko to London; they #top at the Throe Crippless Fagin overhears thelr conversation? 
shows that he knows of thelr theft, and proposes that they Jola his gangt Noah enters 
‘Yeartily snto his plan, and agrees to undertake stealing money from ebildren vent on 
studs. — XLII. Fagin explains how Noah cannot tako earo of himeelf without having 
‘special rogand to Paglia’ ‘Artful Dodger" is arrested; Fagin expatiates t0 
‘ls other boys on tho unusual glory of attaining to the Gignlty of transportation fur life wt 
Mie" Dodger’s'" tender age: Nosh (now Morris Bolter) goes to the policooitice to learn 
he “Dedger’a”" futo; he examination and committal —XLAV. Nancy ties to keep het 
appolotment with Rose, Sunday night, bat 4s prevented by Sikes; Fagin observes bet 
efforts, and resolves to loarn ber pecret, and #0 strengthen his infuenos over her.— XLV 
He seods Noah tofollow her the next Sunday night.—XLVI. Noals dogs her stepstoRondew 
ridge, where Mz. Brownlow and Rose Maylie moethor; sho tells thom why abe filled t 























Oliver Swist, 117 


moet them beforo; describes Monkay fs urged to forsake her vile cempantons, bat declares 
the cannot. —XLVII. Fagin tolls Sikes of her disclomires; Sikes, ina frenzy of rage, goes to 
‘his room, taljs Nancy sho was watched and ovecheard at Tandon Bridge, and hills her. — 
‘XLVITE. His light; at an inn a peddler offers to take a blood-atain out of hishat, he boars 
the murder talked of at the mailooach, tries to sleep, bat the murdered girl's eyes and 
figure haant him; helps at a fre; goes back to London, —XLAX. Mr. Itrownlow causes 
‘Monks to be selzody tolls him the story of his father, mother, and Oliver: convinces him 
that his vilany, and the proofs of i, are well known; makes him promise a complete state 
ment of faota in regard to Oliver, and full restitation of money of which he had defravdon 
‘him. —L. Jacob's Island, where Pugin's gang took reflyps after hie arrest; Chicling’s wo- 
count of Pagin’s captures Sikes's dog. which he had valuly tried to drown, reaches the 
Jeland; Sikes himself comes foarfully haggard; Charley Hates 60 horrified as to attack 
Dbiimy bis hiding-place Is discovered, and a force crowd try tocapture him; ble frantle 
efforts to escape; accidentally hangs himself; and his dog—apringing at him —falls, and 
asties out his brains, — LT. Oliver's sensations as he goes to his native town; Lets ahocked 
‘atialghit of Monks; aided by Mr. Brownlow, Monks relates to Olivor's benefactors the 
‘circumstances of the death of his and Oliver's father, and describes the will and letter he 
eft; the destruction of the will tyr Monks’s mother: fils provalse to hunt down Olivers his 
bribing of Fagin to insnare Oliver, and his own expewuro; Mr. and Mra Kumble are 
summoned; Mrs Bumble denies xi knowledge of Monks and the locket, but two old 
auper-women, who overheard Old Sally's corfesalon, refresh her metnory; Mr. umblov 
opinion of the law, which supposes tho wife acts undor her husband's direction; Rose's 
parentage made known; Harry, having reduced his clroumstances to match her and 
become a clergyman, wine hor hand.—LIL. Yagin on trials bis eentencos his last days 
Mid nights; Mt. Brownlow and Oliver visit him he tells Oliver where he put the papert 
Even him by Monks. —LIIL Last look at the principal surviving charsctees. 














. 


FULL REPOR? OF THE FIRST CAND SECOND] MEETING 


Mudfog Association 


FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF EVERY THING. 





‘Tues broadly humorous reports appeared in ‘Bentley's Miscellany,” in 1837 
‘and 1898, while Mr. Dickens was tho editor of that periodical. ‘They were de- 
Algned to vatirize the proceedings of the British Association for the Advancement 
of Science, which had then been recently established. The first meeting is “ holden 
In the town of Mudfog;” some of the séctions sitting at the Original Pig, and 
‘others at the Pig and Tindor-box: the second meeting is at Oldcastle; and the 
various sections obtain scoommodation at the two rival inns,— the Black Boy and 
‘Stomach-ache, and the Boot-Jack and Countenance, 





CHARACTERS INTRODUCED. 


Bell, Mr. Knight (M. R. C.8.). A member of the association, 
who exhibits a wax preparation of the interior of a man, who, in 
early life, had swallowed a door-key. At a post mortem examination, 
it is found that an exact model of the key is distinctly impressed 
on the coating of the stomach. This coating a dissipated medical 
student steals, and hastens with it to a locksmith of doubtful charac 
ter, who makes a new key from the novel pattern. With this key 
the student enters the house of the deceased gentleman, and com- 
mits a burglary to a large amount, for which crime he is tried and 
executed. ‘The deceased gentleman had always been much ac 
customed to punch, and it is supposed that the original key must 
bavebeer destroyed by the acid. After the unlucky accident, he was 
troubled with nightmare, under the influence of which he always 
imagined himself a wine-cellar door. 

18 


She Mudlog Assoclatfon. 119 


Blank, Mr. A member who exhibits a model of a fashionable 
annual, composod of copperplates, gold-leaf, and silk boards, and 
worked entirely by milk and water. 

Blubb, Mr. A member who lectures learnedly upon a cranium 
which proves to be a carved cocoanutehell. See Keron, Pao- 
FEss0R JOnN. 

Blunderum, Mr. Contributor of a paper, “On the Last Mo- 
‘ments of the Learned Pig.” 

Brown, Mr. (of Edenburg). A member. 

Buffer, Doctor. Another member. 

Carter, Mr. President of Section D (Mechanical Science), at the 
first meeting of the association. 

Coppernose, Mr. Author of a proposition of great magnitude 
and interest, submitted, at the first meeting of the association, 
to Section B (Display of Models and Mechanical Science), illus: 
trated by a vast number of models, and explained in a treatise 
entitled “Practical Suggestions on the Necessity of Providing 
some Harmless and Wholesome Relaxation for the young Noble- 
men of England.” 

Crinkles, Mr, Inventor and exhibitor of a beautiful pocket 
picking machine. 

Doze, Professor. Vice-president of Section A (Zotlogy and 
Botany), at the first meeting of the association. 

Drawley, Mr. Vice-president of Section A, at the second 
meeting. 

Dull, Mr. Vice-president of Supplementary Section E (Umbug- 

* ology and Ditchwateristies). 

Dummy, Mr. Another vice-president of the same section. 

Fee, Doctor W.R. A member of the association. 

Flummery, Mr. Another member. 

Grime, Professor. Another member. 

Grub, Mr. President of Supplementary Section E (Umbugology 
and Ditchwateristics). 

Grummidge, Doctor. A physician, who gives an account of bia 
curing a case of monomania by the heroic method of treatment, 
Jobba, Mr. Exhibitor of « forcing-machine on a novel plan, for 

bringing foint-stock railway-shares prematurely to a premium. 

Joltered, Sir William. President of Section A (Zoilogy and 
Botany), at the second meeting of the association. 

Professor John. A member, who. is called upon to 








120 Ede Wickens Mictlonarp. 


exbibit the skull of the late Mr. Greenacre, which he produces with 
the remark, “that he'd pound it as that ‘ere ’spectable section 
[the section of Umbugology and Ditchwateristies] had never seed 
amore gamerer cove nor he vos." The “ professor" finds, how+ 
ever, that he has made a slight mistake, and has displayed a 
carved cocoanut instead of the skull which he intended to show. 

Kutankumagen, Doctor (of Moscow). A physician, who 
sueceeds in curing an alarmingly healthy man by a persevering use 
of powerful medicine, low diet, and bleeding, which method of 
treatment so fir restores him as to enable him to walk about with 
the slight assistance of a cratch and a boy. 

Ewakley, Mr. A member who submits the result of somo 
ingenious statistical inquiries relative to the difference between the 
value of the qualification of several members of parliament, as 
published to the world, and its real nature and amount, 

Leaver, Mr. Vice-president of Section B (Display of Models and 
Mechanical Science), at the Oldcastle meeting. 

Ledbrain, Mr. X. Vice-president of Section C (Statistics), at 
the Mudfog meeting. He reads a very ingenious paper, showing 
that the total number of legs belonging to one great town in 
Yorkshire is,in round numbers, forty thousand; while the total 
number of chair and stool legs is only thirty thousand. Allowing 
the very favorable average of three legs to a seat, he deduces the 
conclusion that ten thousand individuals (or one-half the whole 
population) are either destitute of any seats at all, or pass the whole 
of their leisure time in sitting upon boxes. 

Long Hars, The Honorable and Reverend Mr, A mem- 
ber of the association, 

Mallet, Mr. President of Section B (Display of Models and 
Mechanical Science), at the second meeting. 

Misty, Mr. X. A member. 

Misty, Mr. X. X. Author of a communication on the dis 
appearance of dancing bears from the streets of London, with 
observations on the exhibition of monkeys as connected with bar 
rel-organs. 

Mortuir, Mr. Vice-president of Section C (Anatomy and Modi- 
cine), at the Oldcastle meeting. 

Muddlebrains, Mr. Vice-president of Section A (Zotilogy ang 
Botany), at the Oldcastle meeting. 

Muff, Professor. A member of the association, remarkable for 





— 


Sbe ‘fMuvtog Assoclatton. 121 


‘tho urbanity of his manners and the ease with which he adapte 
himself to the forms and ceremonies of ordinary life. At the first 
meeting, at Mudfog, he tries some private experiments, in conjunc- 
tion with Professor Nogo, with prussic acid, upon a dog. Tho 
animal proves to have been stolen from an unmarried lady in the 
town, who is rendered nearly distracted by the loss of her pet 
(named Augustus, in affectionate remembrance of a former lover), 
and avenges his death by a violent attack on the two scientific 
gentlemen, in which the expressive features of Professor Muff are 
much scratched and lucerated, while Professor Nogo, besides sus- 
taining soveral severe bites, loses some handfuls of hair. Pro- 
fessor Muff subsequently relates to the association an extraor~ 
dinary and convincing proof of the wonderful efficacy of the 
system of infinitesimal doses. He had diffused three drops of rum 
through a bucketful of water, and given the whole to a patient who 
was ahard drinker, Before the man had drunk a quart, he was 
in a state of beastly intoxication; and five other men were made 
dead drank with the remainder. 

Mull, Professor. A member of the association, who criticises 
some of the ideas advanced by Mr. X. X. Misty iu his paper on 
dancing bears and barrel-organ monkeys. 

Neeshawts, Doctor. A medical member. 

Noakes, Mr. Vice-president of Section D (Statistics), at the 
mesting held at Oldcastle. 

Nogo, Professor. Exhibitor of « model of a wonderful safety 
fire-escape, See Morr, Prorrssor. 

Pessell, Mr. Vice-president of Section C (Anatomy and Medi- 
cine), at the meeting at Oldcastle. 

Pipkin, Mr. (M.R.C.S.), Author of a paper which socks to 
prove the complete belief of Sir William Courtenay (otherwise 
Thom), recently shot at Canterbury, in homeopathy; and which 
argues that he might have been restored to life if an infinitesimal 
dose of Jead and gunpowder had been administered to him imme- 
diately after he fell. 

Prosee, Mr. A member. 

Pumpkinskull, Professor. An influentia, member of the 
council of the association. 

Porblind, Mr. A member of the association. a 

Queerspeck, Professor. Exhibitor of a model of a portable 
railway, neatly mounte’ {n s green case, for the waistcoat pocket. 
By attaching this instrument °o his boots, any bank or public-office 

a 


| = 





Ede Wickens Wiletlonary. 


122 

clerk could transport himself from his place of residence to his 
place of business at the easy rate of sixty-five miles an hour, 
The 


Soroo, Mr. Vice-president of Section B (Display of Models and 
Mechanical Seienes), at the second meeting of the association. 
Blug, Mr. A celebrated statistician. “ His complexion is a dark 
purple, and he has a habit of sighing constantly.” He presents to 
Section C the result of some investigations he has made regarding 
the state of infant education and nursery literature among the 


the meat, could be collected and warchoused, they would, in ten 
years’ time, afford a mass of timber more than sufficient for the 
construction of a first-rate vessel of war, to be called “The Royal 
Skewer,” and to become, under that name, the terror of all the 
enemies of Great Britain. 

Smith, Mr. (of London). A member of the association. 

Snivey, Sir Hookham, A member who combats the opinion 
of Mr. Blubb. 

Snore, Professor. President of Section A (Zotilogy and Botany), 
at the mecting at Madfog. 

Snuffletoffle, Mr. O. J. A member present ut the seoond mest- 
ing of the association. 

Soemup, Doctor. President of Section C (Anatomy and Medi- 
cine) at the second meeting. 

Sowster. Beadle of Oldcastle; a fat man with an immense 
double-chin and a very red nose, which he attributes to a habit of 
early rising. 

Styles, Mr. Vice-president of Section D (Statistics), at the 
second meeting of the association. 

Tickle, Mr. Exhibitor of a newly-invented kind of spectacles, 
which enable the wearer to discern in very bright colors objects 
‘at a great distance (as the horrors of the West India plantations) 
and renders him wholly blind to those immediately before him (as 
the abuses connected with the Manchester cotton-mills). 

Timbered, Mr. Vice-president of Section C (Statistics), at the 
meeting held at Mudfog. 


Ede Muvtog Assoctatfon. 123 
Toorell, Doctor. President of Section B (Anatomy and Medi- 


cine), at the same meeting. 

Truck, Mr. One of the vice-presidents of Seotion D (Mechanical 
Science), at the same meeting. 

‘Waghorn, Mr. Acother of the vice-presidents of the same 
section, at the same meeting, 

‘Wheezy, Professor. One of the vice-presidents of Section A 
(Zodlogy and Botany), at the same meeting: 

Wigsby, Mr. Exhibitor of a cauliflower somewhat larger than a 
chaise-umbrella, raised by the simple application of highly-car- 
bonated eoda-water as manure. He explains, that, by scooping out 
the head (which would aiford a new and delicious epectes of 
nourishment for the poor), a parachute could at once be cbtained; 
the stalk, of course, being kept downwards. 

Woodensconce, Mr. President of Section © (Statistics), at 
the meeting held at Mudfog. 








The Life and Adventures of Nicho- 
las Nickleby. 


‘Turss story wad begun within a few months after the completion of the “Pick 
wick Papers * (September, 1337); “ Oliver Twist," which followed thet work, 
having been commenced In February, 117, and carried on simultaneously with it 
for #everal months. “Nicholas Nickloby” was issued fu monthly shilling num 
ders, and was fllastrated by “Phiz” (Hablot K. Browne), On its completion, 
‘In 1899, [t was brought out in volume form, with a prefixed portralt of Dickens, 
engraved by Finden from a patoting by Muclive, representing him os a remark 
ably spruce young man, with ® smooth fice, and long wavy balr. It was dedi 
cated to W, C, Macready. 

‘Tho main object of the work was to expose “the monstrous neglect of edu- 
cation In England, and the disregard of it by tho State, a# @ means of form- 
Ing good or bad citizens, and miserable or happy men,” by showing up, as 
notable example, the cheap Yorkshire schools, which were in existence at 
that time, ‘Tho author's purpose was answered. In the Preface to later 
edition of “ Nicholas Nickleby," he was able to speak of the race of Yorkshire 
echoolmasters “in the past tense,” and to say, “Though It has not yet disap 
peared, it is dwindling dally.” 





CHARACTERS INTRODUCED. 


Adams, Captain. One of the seconds in the duc! between Sir 
Mulberry Hawk and Lord Verisopht. (Ch. 1.) 

African Knife-Swallower, Tho. Amember 2f Mr. Crummles's 
theatrical company. (Ch. xlviii.) 

Alice. See Yor, Tae Five Sisrens or. 

Alphonse, Mrs. Wititterly’s page; so diminutive, “that his body 
would not hold, in ordinary array, the number of small buttons 

iat 


Nicholas Nichledp. 125 


which are indispensable to a page’s costume; and they were con- 
sequently obliged to be stuck on four abreast.” (Ch. xxi, xxviii, 
xxxii.) 

Belling, Master. One of Mr. Squeers’s pupils at Dotheboys 
Hall. (Ch. iv.) 

Belvawney, Miss. A lady in Mr. Vincent Crummles’s theatrical 
company. (Ch. xxili-xxy, xxix.) 

mm, Mrs, A-char-woman employed by Miss Knag. (Ch. 
xviii.) 

Bobster, Mr. A ferocious old fellow into whose house Nicholas 
Nickleby is introduced one evening by Newman Noggs, whom he 
has commissioned to find out where Madeline Bray lives, and who 
makes the Indicrous mistake of discovering the wrong party. (Ch. 
x) 

Bobster, Miss Cecilia. His daughter; mistaken by Newman 
Nogys for Miss Madeline Bray, and persuaded by him to see Nicho- 
las, and to hear him speak for himself, (Ch. xl.) 

Bolder. A pupil at Mr. Squecrs’s educational establishment, called 
Dotheboys Hall. (Ch. viii.) 

Bonney, Mr. A friend of Ralph Nickleby’s, and the prime or- 
ganizer of the * United Metropolitan Improved Hot Muffin and 
Crumpet Baking and Punctual Delivery Company.” (Ch. ii.) 

Mr, A gentleman at whose house Nicholas Nickleby and 
‘Miss Snevellicci call (accompanied by Miss Ninetta Crammles, the 
“Tnfant Phenomenon”) to induce him to put his name to Miss 
Snevellicci’s * bespeak.” (Ch. xxiv.) 

Borum, Mrs. His wife; mother of six interesting children. (Ch 
xxiv.) 

Borum, Augustus. Their son; a young gentleman who pinches 
the “Phenomenon” behind, to ascertain whether she is real. (Ch. 
xxiv.) 

Borum, Charlotte. One -of their daughters, who filches the 
* Phenomenon's” parasol, and carries it off. (Ch. xxiv.) 

Borum, Hmma. Another daughter. (Ch. xxiv.) 

Bravassa, Miss. One of the members of Mr, Crummles’s theat- 
rieal company. (Ch. xxili-xxv, xxix.) 

Bray, Madeline. Daughter of a gentleman who married a 
very particular friend of the Cheeryble Brothers. Her mother dies 
while she is a mere child; and her selfish and profligate father, at 
4 somewhat later date, is reduced, between sickness and poverty, te 

ue . 




















126 Ede Wickens Wictlonacg. 


the verge of desth. Although the braves pr-vation, degradation 
and affliction, for the sake of supporting him, he is on the point of 
forcing ber to marry a rich old miser named Gride, when destk 
suddenly carries off the unnatural parent, and Madeline is re 
moved to Mrs. Nickleby’s house. She afterwards marries Nicholas, 
(Ch. xvi, xl, xlvi, xlvii, li, lii, liv-lvi, Ixiii, Lx.) 

Bray, Mr. Walter. Father to Madeline, a broken-down, irritable, 
and selfish debauchee. (Ch. xlvi, xlvii, lii-liv.) 

Brooker, A felon and an outeast; a former clerk to Ralph 
Nickleby. Being ill-treated by his master, and hating him, he takes 
advantage of favoring circumstances to make him think his only 
eon has died and been buried during his temporary absence from 
home; though, in reality, the boy has been left at a Yorkshire 
school, with the design of one day making the secret a means of 
getting money from the father. But the plan fails; and Mr, Nickle- 
by, in the hot pursuit of bad ends, persecutes and bunts down his 
own child to death. (Oh. xliv, Ix, xv.) See Surke, Sqvemns. 

Browdie, John. A stout, kind-hearted Yorkshire man, drawn 
from life. He is betrothed to Miss Matilda Price, whom he after. 
wards marries, At bis first meeting with Nicholas Nickleby, 
ho becomes furiously jealous of him. Finding, however, that 
Nicholas has no intention of making trouble between him and his 
intended, he conceives a more favorable opinion of the young 
gentleman, and they become good friends. (Ch. ix, xiii, xxix, 
xiii, xlil, xlv, Ixiv.) 

Bulph, Mr, A pilot, who keeps a lodging-house at which M:. 
Crummles lives. (Ch. xxiii.) 

Cheeryble Brothers, The (Charles and Hdwin). Twin- 
brothers, partners in business, and the benefactors und employers of 
Nicholas Nickleby. Mr. Dickens says of them in his Profaee, that 
they are “drawn ftom life;” and that “their liberal charity, their 
tingloness of heart, their noble nature, and their unbounded benevo- 
lence, are no creations of the author’s brain, but are prompting every 
day (and oftenest by stealth) some munificent and generous deed in 
that towa of which they are the pride and honor.” ‘The originals 
‘of these characters were William Grant and Brothers (Daniel, 
John, and Charles), cotton-spinners and calico-printers, neat 
Manchester, Mr. Dickens, howover, never saw these gentlemen, 
or interchanged any communication with them during his lif, 
Having boon encouraged to tell his story to one of the brothers 








EURYULE UROTHERS AND TIM LINKINWATER. 








Nicholas Nichledp. vw 
whom he has accidentally met on the stroet, Nicholas is hurried into 
an omnibus, and taken straight to the warchouse, where he is 
introduced to the other brother, and, after some inquiries and 
private conference, is taken into their counting-room. (Ch. xxxv, 
xxxvil, xl, xllii, xlvi, xlix, Iv, lix, Lx, Ixt, Ixifi, Lx.) 

Frank. Nephew of the Cheeryble Brothers. He 
finally marries Kate Nickleby. (Ch. xliii, xlix, ty, Ivii, lix, txi, 
Ixiii, xv.) 

Chowser, Colonel. One of the guests at a dinner-party given 
by Ralph Nickleby, (Ch. xix, 1.) 

Cobbey. A pupil at Squeers’s school. (Ch. vill.) 

Crowl, Mr. A fellow-lodger of Newman Noggr’s. (Ch. xiv, xv, 
xxxii.) 

Crurmiles, Mr, Vincent, The manager of an itinerant theatrical 
company. Meeting Nicholas Nickleby and Smike at an inn not far 
from Portsmouth, he advises them to adopt the stage for a profession, 
and offers to bring them out. “There ’s genteel comedy,” he tells 
Nicholas, “in your walk and manner, juvenile tragedy in your 
eye, and touch-and-go farce in your laugh.” Of Smike he says, — 

“Without a pad upon his body, and hardly a touch of paint upon his fuce, 
he'd make auch an actor for tho starved business as was never seen in this 
Only lot him be tolerably well up in the apothecary in * Romeo and 
Fuliot,’ with the slightest possible dab of red on the tip of his nose, and hod be 
certain of three rounds the moment he put his head out of the practicable door 
dn the front groores 0. P." 
‘The result is, that Nicholas, after a little deliberation, doclares it 
a jin; and he and Smike become a part of Mr. Crummles’s com- 
pany. He treats them very kindly,and pays them well; and when 
he finally separates from them, —on the occasion of his departure 
‘with his family for America,—he puts out his hand, with “not a jot of 
Bis theatrical manner "remaining, and says with great warmth, “ We 
were a very bappy little company. Youand I never had a word. 
Tahail be very glad to-morrow morning to think that 1 saw you 
again; but now I almost wish you had n't come.” (Ch. xxii-xxy, 
xxix, xxx, xlviii.) 

Crummies, Mrs. Wife of Mr. Vincent Crammles. (Ch. xxili-~ 
xxv, xxix, xxx, xlviii.) 

Crummies, Master. One of their sons, and a member of the 

theatrical company. (Ch. xxii, xxiii, xxx, xlvili.) 

Master Percy. Another son. (Ch. xxil, xxiii, xxx. 
alvill.) 








Les Ede Dickens Mietlonarp. 


Crummles, Miss Ninetta. Their daughter, known and ad 
vertised as the “Infant Phenomenon.” This character was drawn 
from life; and the original is now the wife of a distinguished 
American general. (Ch. xxiii, xxiv, xxv, xxix, xlviii.) 

Curdle, Mr. A Portsmouth gentleman, whom Miss Snevellicci 
calls upon to request that he would put his name to her 
“ bespeak;” he being a great critic, and having quite the London 
taste in matters relating to literature and the drama. He is the 
aathor of a pamphlet of sixty-four pages, post octavo, on the char- 
acter of the nurse's deceased husband, in “Romeo and Juliet.” 
(Ch. xxiv.) 

Curdle, Mrs, His wife. (Ch. xxiv.) 

Cutler, Mr. and Mrs, Friends of the Kenwigses. (Ch. xiv.) 

David. Butler to the Cheeryble Brothers. (Ch. xxxvii, Lxiii.) 

Digby. Smike’s theatrical name, See Smrxe, 

Folair, Mr. A dancer and pantomimic actor belonging to Mr. 
Crammles’s company. (Ch. xxili-xxv, xxix, xxx.) 

Gazingi, Miss. An actress in the theatrical company of Mr. 
Vincent Crummles. (Ch. xxili.) 

Gentleman, The, in small-clothes. Sce Nicstesy, Mus. 

George, A friend of the Kenwigses. He is a young man who 
had known Mr, Kenwigs when he was a bachelor, and is much es 
teemed by the ladies, as bearing the reputation of a rake. (Ch.xit.) 

Graymarsh. pupil at Dotheboys Hall, Squeers’s school. (Ch. 
viii.) 

Green, Miss, A friend of the Kenwigses. (Ch. xiv.) 

Gregsbury, Mr. A member of parliament, to whom Nicholas 
Nickleby applies for a situation as private secretary, ‘he require- 
ments, however, are so many, and eo difficult to meet, that the sita- 
ation is declined. Says Mr. Grogsbury, — 


“ My secretary wotld have to make bimself master of the foreign polley of 
tho world, as {t ix mirrored in the newspapers; to run his eyo over ail accounts 
of pubilc meetings, all leading articles, and accounts of the proceedings of pub- 
Vic bodies ; and to make notes of any thing which it appearnd to him might be 
maie a polnt of in any little speech upon the question of some petition lying 
ou tho table, or any thing of that kind. Do yon understand?” 

“ Ethink I do, wir,” replied Nicholas. 

“Then,” said Mr. Gregsbury, “it would be necessary for him to make himaclf 
acquainted from day to day with newspaper paragraphs on passing events, 
such as * Mysterious disappearance, and supposed suicide of a pot-boy.’ or any 
thing of that aort, upon which I might found a question to tho Secretary of 
State for the Home Department, Then he would have to copy the question 





Nicbolas Nickteby. 129 


‘and ay much as T rememBered of the answer (Inclading a Utele eompilment 
about my independence and good sense), and to xend the manuscript in a frank 
to the local paper, with perhaps half'a dozen lines of leader, to the effect that 1 
‘was always to be found in my place In parliament, and aever #runk from the 


‘discharge of my responsible and arduous duties, and so forth. You see?" 
‘Nicholas bowed. 


“Besides whieh," continned Mr. Gregsbury, “I abould expect him now and 
then to go through s few figures in the printed tables, and to pick out a few re- 
‘sults, so that T might come out pretty well on tmber-duty questions, and foance 
questions, and x0 on; and Eshould like him to gnt up a fow Little arguments 
about the disastrous effects of m return to cash-pay-nents and a metalliccur 
reney, with a touch now and then about the exportation of bullion, and the 
Emperor of Russla, and Yank-notes, and all that kind of thing, which it" onlyy 
hecewary to talk fluently about, because nobody understsnds it, Do you take 
me?’ 

“T Qhluk T understand,” sald Nicholas. 

“With regard touch questions as are not political,” continued Mr. Grege 
Yury, warming, “and which oue can’t be expected to care adamn about, beyoud 
the natural care of not allowing inferior people to be as well olf as ourselves, 
(elve where are our privileges?) I should wish my searetary to get together a 
few little flourishing speeches of a patrioticcast. , . . This Is ahasty outline of 
the eblef things you 'd have to do, except waiting In the lobby every wight (in 
ease I forgot any thing, aud ehould want fresh cramming), and now and then, 
during great debates. sitting In the front row of the gallery, and saying to the 

about, ‘You see that gentleman with hils hand to his fice, and his arm 
twisted round the pillar? That 's Mr. Gregsbury, the celebrated Mr. Gregsbury,? 
—with any other little oulogium that might atrike yoa at the moment.” (Cb, 
xvl) 

Gride, Arthur. An old miser. (Ch. xlvii, li, lili, liv, Ivi, lix, 
Ixy.) See Bray (Mapecrse), Nrcxceny (Raven). 

Grogzwig, Baron of. See Koxepweruovur Banox Voy. 

Grudden, Mrs, An actress attached to Mr. Crummles's theatri- 
cal company, and an assistant to Mrs. Crummles in her domestic 
affairs, (Ch, xxiii, xxiv, xxix, xxx, xlix.) 

Hannah. Servant to Miss La Creevy. (Ch. iii.) 

Hawk, Sir Mulberry. A fishionable gambler, rove, and knave, 
remarkable for his tact in ruining young gentlemen of fortune. He 
‘endeavors to lead Kate Nickleby astray, but fails, and is punished 
by her brother. He afterwards fights a duel with his pupil and 
tape, Lord Frederick Verisopht, in which the latter is killed. (Ch. 
xix, xvi-xxviii, xxii, xxxviil, 1, Lev.) 

Johnson, Mr, The stage name given 2y Mr. Crummles to Nicho- 
las Nickleby. 

Mr. A tumerin ivory, and a lodger in the same house 
~ with Newman Noggs; “looked upon as a person of some considera- 
tion on the premises, inasmuch as he occupied the wholo of the 

















130 The Bickens Mictlonarp. 


first, floor, comprising a suite of two roonis.” (Ch. xiv-xvi, xxxvi, 
tid) 

Kenwigs, Mrs. His wife; “quite » Indy in her manners, and of 
@ very genteel family, having an unele [Mr. Lillyvick] who colleet- 
ed a water-rate; besides which distinction, the two eldest of her 
little girls went twice a week to a dancing-school in the neighbore 
hood, and had flaxen hair tied with blue ribbons hanging in luxuriant 
pigtails down thelr backs, and wore little white trousers with frills 
round the ankles, — for all of which reasona, and many more, equal- 
ly valid, but too numerous to mention, she was considered u very 
desirable person to know.” (Ch. xivexvi, xxxvi, lii.) 

Kenwigs, Morleena, Her eldest daughter, “regarding whose 
uncommon Christian name it may be stated, that it was invented 
and composed by Mrs, Kenwigs previous to her first lying-in, for 
the special distinction of her eldest child, in case it should prove = 
daughter.” (Ch. xiv-xvi, xxxvi, li.) 

Knag, Miss. Forewoman in Madame Mantalini’s millinery estab- 
lishment, and her successor in the business. (Ch. xvii, xviii, xx, 
xxi, xliv.) : 

Knag, Mr. Mortimer. Her brother; a young man whom un- 
requited affection has made miserable. (Ch. xviii.) 

Koéldwethout, Baron von. Hero of one of the tales told at 
roadside inn when Nicholas Nickleby and Squeets, with other 
passengers, were detained there by an accident to the stage-coach 
in which they were travelling. ‘Tho baron {s described as dwelling, 
“once upon a time,” with numerous retainers, in an old castle 
at Grogawig in Germany. Ho is a young, jolly, roystering blade, 
and a perfect Nimrod of a hunter. Becoming tired of his monoto- 
nous bachelor-life, he marries a daughter of the Baron yon Swillen- 
hausen, by whom he is soon well snubbed, and effectually subdued. 
As the baronesmakes it a point that the family pedigree shall 
receive an addition yearly, and as the Grogzwig coffers are not as 
inexhaustible as her relatives suppose them to be, Ko#ldwetaout at 
last. loses heart, and resolves to make away with himself. But, 
before doing so, he smokes one last pipe, and tosses off one Inst 
measure of wine, the effect of which is to conjure up an apparition, 
— the “Genius of Suicide and Despair,” — with which he has a 
conference that ends in his deciding to put a good fuco on the whole 
matter, and try the world a little longer. This he does; and dies. 
wany years after, a happy man, if nota rich one. (Ch. vi.) 


ae 


. 





Nicholas Nickletp. 181 


Koéldwethout, Baroness von. His wift. (Ch. vi.) 

La Creevy, Miss. A mincing young lady of fifty; a miniature 
painter, who becomes a fast friend of the Nickelbys, and finally 
marries Tim Linkinwater, the od clerk of the Cheeryble Brothers. 
(Ch. iti, v, x, xi, xx, xxi, xxxili, xxv, xxxviii, xlix, [xi, lxiii, Ixv.) 

Lane, Miss, Governess in Mr. Borum’s family. (Ch. xxiv.) 

Ledrook, Miss. A member of Mr. Crummles’s dramatic company. 
(Ch. xxiii, xxv, xxx.) 

Lenville, Thomas. A tragic actor in Mr. Crommles's theatre. 
(Ch. xxiii, xxiv, xxix.) 

Lenville, Mrs. His wife; a member of the same profession. (Ch. 
xxiii, xxix.) 

Lillyvick,Mr. A collector of water-rates; uncle to Mrs. Kenwigs, 
at one of whose anniversary wedding-parties he meets Miss Henri- 
etta Petowker, an amateur actress, and is smitten with her charms. 
He finally follows her to Portsmouth, —where she has engaged to 
appear in Mr. Crummles’s theatre, — and marries her, much to the 
disgust of the Kenwigses, who have considered themselves his heirs. 
But Miss Petowker soon proves false, and runs away with another 
man, leaving the collector disconsolate. He returns to London, 
where he meets Newman Noggs, and is prevailed upon to go te the 
house of his relatives, where a Indicrously affecting scene ensucs. 
‘A boy has been born to them during his absence. Mr. Lillyvick 
informs them that he never shall expect them to receive his wife, 
as she has deserted him, 

“Eloped with s half-pay captain,” repeated Mr. Lillyvick,—“basely and 
falsely eloped with a half-pay captain, with a bottle-nosed captain that any man 
might hare considered himself safo from, It was in this room," 
Vick, looking sternly round, “that I frst see Henrietta Petowker: 
room that I turn her off for ever.” 

‘This declaration completely changed the whole postare of affairs, Mrs, Kens 
wigs throw herseif upou the old gentleman’s neck, bitterly reproaching herself 
for her late harstineas, and exclaiming, If sho had suifured, what must his suffers 
Ings hore been} Mr. Kenwigs grasped his hand, and vowed eternal friendship 
and remorse... . And Mr.and Mrs. Kenwigs both sald, with strong feeling and 
ware of eympathy, that every thing happenod for the best, and conjured the 


g00d collector not to give way to unavailing grief, but to seek consolation In the 
sccloty of those affectionate relations whose arms and hearts were ever open to 
bins. 











“Out of alfeotion and regard for you, Suxan and Kenwlge,” anld Mr. Lilly 
‘vick, “and not out of rerenge and spito against her (for ahe is below it), J hall 
to-morrow morning settle upon your children, and make payable to the survivors 
of them, when they come of age or marry, that money that I once meant to 
‘eave ‘em tn my will. ‘Thr decd shail be executed to-morrow, and Mr. Nogge 











132 The Wickens Wietlonary. 


ahal, be one of the witnesses. Ho hears me promise this, and he ehall ave it 
done” 


(Ch. xiv-xvi, xxv, xxx, xxxvi, xlviii.) 

Linkinwater, Tim. Chief clerk of the Cheeryble Brothers. 

Linkinwater, Miss, Sister to Tim Linkinwater, (Ch. xxvii, 
Ix 


) 
Linkinwater, Tim. Chief clerk of the Cheeryble Brothers. 


“1's forty-four year," sald ‘Tim, making  caloulation tn the air with hie 
‘pen, and drawing an tmaginary line before he cast it up,—“forty-four your 
‘next May, slice I first kept the books of Choeryble Brothers. I've opened the 
safy every morning all that tme (andays excepted), ax the clock #truck nine, 
‘apd gone over the house every night at half-past ten (except on Foreign Yost 
nights, and then twenty minutes before twelve) to see the Goors fustened, and 
‘the fires out. I''vo never slept out of the back attlc one xingle night, ‘There's 
‘the maine mignonette-box In the middie of the window, and the «ame four flowers 
‘pots, two on each side, that I brought with mo when I first came. ‘There fn", 
Ivo sald it again and agai, and Ill maintain §t,— there ala't uch a aquare 
‘as this in the world. I know thore ain’" sald ‘Tim with snddon energy, and 
Joking sternly about him,—‘not one. For business or plessure, tn summer 
time or wiater, —I don’t care which, —thore '# nothing like it. ‘There "* not euch 
8 spring in England os the pump under the archway, There's not such w view 
4) England as tho view out of'my window. T've son It every morning before T 
shaved, and J ought to know something about i, I have alopt fn that roam," add 
‘e Tim, sinking bis volce a tittle,“ for four and forsy year; and if tt was n't incon 
‘venient, and did n’s intorforo with busines, I ehould request leave to die there.” 

(Ch. xxxv, xxxvii, x1, xlili, xlix, lv, lix—Ixi, Ixiii, Ixy.) 

Lumbey, Doctor. A physician who attends on Mrs. Kenwigs in 
her last confinement, (Ch. xxxv.) 

Mantalini, Madame. A fashionable milliner and dressmaker. 
(Ch. x, xvii, xviii, xxi, xxxiy, xliv.) 

Mantalini, Mr. Alfred. Her husband. 

His name was originally Muntle; but tt had been converted, by an easy 
transition, {nto Mantalinl, the Indy rightly considering that nn Engiléh 
lntion would be of sorious infury to the business. He hnd married on his whie= 
ers, upon which property he had previously sobslsted, In a genteel manner, for 
some years; and which he had recently Improved, after patient caltivation, by 
the addition of « mustache, which promised to seoure him an easy Independ- 
‘ence; his share in the labors of the business being . . . confined to spending 
the money. 


When madame refuses to supply his demands, he at first resorts 
to flattery and honeyed words, then declares, that, being a burden, 
Le will put an end to his existence; which generally has the effect of 
softening her heart, and bringing herto terms. She is at last, howe 
ever, driven into bankruptey by his reckless extravagance, and, the 
suicide dodge having been tried once too often, insists on a separa 
tion, and declares her firm determination to have nothing more te 
do with such a man. The elegant and dashing fop’s butterfly-life 
is soon ended, and he goes “ to the demnition bow-wows.” He geta 

. 








Nicholas Nickleby. 133 


Into prison, and is taken out by a vixenish washerwoman, who is at 

first captivated by his handsome person and graceful manners, but, 

becoming disenchanted, keeps his constantly turning a mangle in 

the cellar in which sho lives, “like a demd old horso in a dem- 

nition mill;” making his life, as he says, “one demd horrid grind.” 
(Ch. x, xvii, xxii, xxxiv, xliv, xiv.) 

Mobbs. A pupil ut Squecrs's school. (Ch. vill.) 

Nickleby, Mr. Godfroy, Father of Ralph and the elder Nich- 
olas, to the former of whom he left three thousand pounds in eash, 
‘and to the latter “ one thousand and the farm, which was as small a 
landed estate as one would desire to see." (Ch. i.) 

Nickleby, Nicholas, the elder. Son of Mr. Godfrey Nickleby, 
brother of Ralph, and father of Nicholas and Kate. By his wile’s 
ailvice he undertook to speculate with what little capital he had, 
and, losing it all, lost heart too, took to his bed, and died. (Ch. i.) 
See Nickieny, Racrn. 

Nickleby, Nicholas, te younger. The character from whom the 
story takes its name; a young man who finds himself, at the age of 
nineteen, reduced to poverty by the unfortunate speculations and 
death of his fathor, but possessed, notwithstanding, of a good edu- 
cation, and with abounding energy, honesty, aud industry. His 
mother being determined to make an appeal for assistance to her 
deceased husband's brother, Mr. Ralph Nickleby, he accompanies 
her, with his sister,to London. On their first interview their rela- 
tive receives them very roughly, and takes a dislike to his nephew, 
amounting to positive hatred; but he procures him a situation as 
assistant tutor at Dothchoys Hall,—a school kept by Mr. Wack- 
thrd Squeers, in Yorkshire. Nicholas proceeds thither to. assume 
his new duties; but such is the meanness, rapacity, and brutality 
of Mr. Squeers, that he soon forvibly interferes on behalf of the 
“pupils;” gives the master a sound drabbing; and tien turns 
his back upon the place, taking with him a poor, half-starved, and 
rhamefully-abused lad, named Smike. He returns to London only 
to find that the story of his adventure, highly maguified and dis 
torted, has preceded him. Learning that his sister will lose a 
situation she has obtained, if he remains at home, he quits London 
again, and goes to Portsmouth, where ha joing a theatrical company, 
gad becomes a “star” actor. He is, however, suddenly summoned 
back to London to protect bis s:sterfoom the insults and persecue 
tions of two aristocratic roués, one of whom he chastises severel, 

br 





134 Ehe Wickens Wietls 





eR 


under circumstances of great provocation. He thea takes his 
mother and sister under his own protection, and soon after makes 
the acquaintance of two benevolent merchants, —the Cheeryble 
Brothers,—gains their respect and confidence; Is, after a while, 
admitted into the firm; and finally marries a friend and protéyde 
of his benefactors, Mr. Dickens says of this character, in his 
Preface, — 

If Nichols bo not always found to be blameless or agreeable, he tf wot 
always intended to appear so. He is # young man of an impetuous temper, 


and of little or bo experience; and I sew no resson why such a hero should be 
lifted out of nature. 


(Ch, ili-ix, xii, xlii, xv, xvi, xx, xxii-xxy, xxix, xxxii, xxxill, 
xxxv, xxvii, xl, xiii, xlili, xly, xlvi, xlvill, xlix, l-lv, Ivili, bx, 
Ixili-Ixv.) 

Nickloby, Ralph. A miser and usurer; uncle to the younger, 
and brother to the elder, Nicholas Nickleby. 


‘These two brothers had been brought up together in a school nt Exeter, and, 
being accustomed to go home ouce a week, had often heard from thele mother's 
Ups long accounts of thelr futhor’ sufferings in his days of poverty, and of 
thelr deceased uncle's importance in his days of nftlusnce, — which reeltals prov 
duced a very different Impression oa the two; fur while the younger, who way 
of a timid and retiring diaposition, gleaned from thence nothing but forewarn- 
ings to «tun the great world, und attach himself to the quiet routing of scountry 
life, Htalph the elder deduced from the often-repeated tale the two great morale,— 
that riches are the only true source of happiness and power, and that itis lawful 
and Just to compass their acquisition by all means short of felony. “And,” 
reasoned Ralph with limself, ‘If no good came of my wuele’s money when he 
was alive, a great deal of good camo of tt after he war dead; inasmuch ax my 
fathor has got it now, and is saving it up for me, which is » highly virtuous 
purpose. And, going back to the old gentleman, good did come of it to him too; 
for he had the pleasure of thinking of it all hls life long, and of belng envied 
and courted by all his famfly besides.” And Ralph always wound up these 
‘mental soliloquics by arriving at the conclusion, that there was nothing Like 
money. 

‘Not confining himeelf to theory, or permitting his fheulties to rust, even et 
that early age, in mere abstract speculations, this promising ad commenced 
unurer on a Limited scale at school, putting out at good Interest m xmall capital 
of slate-pencll and marbles, and gradually extending bis operations unti! they 
aspired to the copper colaage of this realm, in which he speculated to consider 
able advantage. Nor did he trouble his borrowers with abstract calculations of 
figures, or references to ready-reckone simple rule of interest belng all 
comprised in the one golden sentence, “ twopence for every halfpenty,” whieh 
greatty aiuplified the accounts, and which, ax # fasuiliar precept, —more easily 
acquired, and retained in the memory, then any knowa rule of arithmetic,—enn 
not be too strongly recommended to the notice of enpitalists, both large an€ 
amall and more expecially of snoney-brokers and billliscounters. Indeed, te 
do these gentlemen Sustice, many of them are to this day in the frequent habit 
of adopting it with eminent success. 











Nicholas Nickleby. 138 


Or the desth of his father, he is placed in a mercantile house in 
London; applies himself passionately to his old pursuit of money- 
getting; soon has a spacious house of his own in Golden Squaro; 
and enjoys the reputation of being immensely rich. When hia 
brother’s widow presents herself in London, with her two children, 
seeking his assistance, he gives her to understand that he is not to be 
looked to “ns the support of a great hearty woman and a grown 
boy and girl.” He makes them work, therefore, for their bread, and, 
taking an intense dislike to his nephew, tries in every way tohumble 
and rain him; but his machinations are all defeated, his illegal ope 
rations detected, bis evil deeds discovered ; and he finally hangs him- 
sclf in a fit of mingled frenzy, hatred, and despair. See Sarxx, 
Squenns. 


“fn the characters of Ralph Nickleby and Arthur Gride, Mr. Dickens drew # finer 
Gutinetion than was his Wont. ‘They are both nctuated by an identical pasalon, — the 
Jove of money, But Ralph Nickleby ts more than a mlser: bo ts a oan who loves the 
power @hich money gives, and who expends money in securing the gratification alike 
of avarice and revenge. Arthur Gride Is a mere sordid misor, a wrotched hoarder of 
‘colns, a starveling fool, who bas not sense to feed his watchdog." — Dublin Review, rol 
Ix, 





(Ch. i-iv, x, xix, xx, xxviii, xxxi, xxiii, xxxv, xliv, aly, xlvii, li, 
Tiy, Ivi, lix, Ix, Ixii.) 

Nickleby, Kate. Sisterof Nicholas. She marries Frank Cheery- 
ble (Ch. iii, ¥, x, xi, xvii-xxi, xxvii, xxviii, xxxili, xxxv, xxviii, 
xii, xliii, xlv, xlix, lv, 1xi, Ixili-lxv.) 

Nickleby, Mrs. Widow of the elder, and mother of the younger, 
Nicholas Nickleby; a well-meaning woman, but weak withal; very 
fond and proud of ber children; very loquacious ; very desirous of 
being considered genteel; and remarkable for the inaccuracy of her 
memory, the irrelevancy of her remarks, and the general discursives 
ness ard inconsequence of her conversation, — traits which are eaid 
to have been characteristic, to some extent, of Mr. Dickens's mother. 
When sheleaves her quartura in London, and goes with Nicholas to 
live at Bow, her attention is attracted by the singular deportment of 
an elderly gentleman who lives in the next house. Heis eo plainly 
strack with Mrs. Nickleby's appearance, and becomes so very 
demonstrative, that, although she feels fattered by his homage, she 
determines, nevertheless, to acquaint her son with the fiets, 

There can bono doubt,” sald Mrs. Nicklobr, “that he da gentleman, and 
has the manners of a gentleman, aud the appearance of a gentleman; although 


he does wear smalls ana gras worsted siockings. That may be eccentricity, or 
he may be proud of bis legs. 1 don’t see why bo shouldn't be, ‘The prince 








_— 





186 Tbe Dickens Wietlonary. 


‘Tegent was proud of his legs, and so was Daniel Lambert, who was alto # fat 
foan; he was proud of his logs: so was Miss Diffins she was—no,” added Mrs 
‘Niokleby, correcting herself, “I think she had only toes; but the principle fa the 
tame." 


‘Nicholas looked on quite amazed at the introduction of this mew theme, which 
seemed just what Mrs. Nickleby had expected him to be. 

“You may well be surprised, Nicholas, my dear,” she sald: “Tam sure 7 was. 
Jt came upon me like a tlash of fire, and almost froze my blood. The bottom of 
is garden joins the bottom of ours. and, of courso, I had several times seen hime 
sitting among the searlot-beans in his little arbor, or working st hls little hot-beda, 
Tused to think he stared rather; but I did n’t take nny particular notice of that, ax 
‘we were newcomers, and he might be curious to see what wo were like. Bal 
‘when he began to throw his eucumbers aver our wall" — 

“To throw his cucumbers over our wall!” repeated Nicholas in great astonish- 
ment. * 

“You, Nicholas, my dear,” replied Mrs. Nickleby tn a very werlous tone, “his 
‘cucumbers over our wall, wd vegetable-marrows likewise.” 

“Confound his impudence!” said Nicholas, firing immediately. “ What docs 
he mean by that?” f 

“Tdon’t think he menns it tmpertinently wt all," replted Mira. Nickleby. 

What!" said Nicholas, —* cucumbers and vegetable-marrows flying at the 
heads of the family ws they walk In thelr own garden, and not meant impertl- 
nently! Why, mother” — 

Nicholas stopped short; for there was an indescribable expression of placid 
triumph, mingled with a modest confusion, lingering between the borders of 
Mrs. Nickleby's night-cap, which arrested his attention suddenly. 

“ He mast be avery weak and foollah and loconsiderate man," sald Mrs. Nic. 
kleby, —* blamable, indeed ; at least, I suppose other people would consider him #0 > 
of course, I can’t be expected to express any opinion on that polnt, especially 
after always defending your poor dear papa, when other people blamed tim, for 
making proposals to me, And, to be sure, there can be no doubt that be hns taken 
‘avery singular way of showing it; still, at the same thmo, his attentions are— that” 
ts, ox fras tt goes, and to w certain extent, of course—s flattering sort of 
thing; and although 1 should neyor dream of marrying again, with a dear girl 
Uko Kate #till unsottled in lift” — 

“ Surely, mother, such an idea never entered your brain for an Instant 1! enld 
Nicholas... “You know there is no language of vegetables which converts a 
sucumber into a formal declaration of attachment.” 

“My dear,” replied Mrs. Nickleby, tossing her head, and looking at the ashes ta 
the grate, “he has dono and said all sorta of things. 

© Ts there no mistake on your part?" asked Nicholas, 

“Mistake! cried Mrs. Nickleby. “Lord, Nicholas, my dear! do you suppose 
I don’t know whoa a man "s In earnest?” 
ell, well,” muttered Nicholas, 

“Every time I go to the window,” enld Mrs, Nickleby, “he kisses one hand, 
‘and lays the other upon his heart : of coarse, it’s very foolish of him to do so, 
and I dare eny you ll say t's very wrong; but ho does it very respectfully, —very 
respeetfilly indeed, and very tenderly, —extremely tenderly, So far he deserves 
the grentest credit: there can be no doubt about that. Thea there are the pres 
ants, which come pouring over the wall every day ; and very fine they certainly are 
=very fine: we had one of the cucumbers at dinner yesterday, and think of plo 
lng the rest for next winter. And last evening,” added Mrs. Nickleby witk 




















Nicholas Nickleby 137 


fuereased confusion, “he called gently over the wall, as Twas walking Iu the 
garden, and proposed marriage and an elopement. Ils voice i# as clear as & 
Dell or a musical glass,—very like a musical glass indeed, — but, of course, 
didn't listen to It. ‘Then the question t+, Nicholas, my dear, what am T todo?” 

“ Does Rate know of this?” asked Nicholas, 

FT have not aaid a word about it yet,” anawered hls mother. 

“Then for Heaven’s sake!" rejoined Nicholas, rising, “do not; for tt would 
make her tery unhappy. And wii regard to what you should do, my dear 
mother, do what your better sense and feeling, and respect for my father's 
memory, would prompt. There aro n thousand ways in which you can show 
your dislike of these preposterous and doting attentions. If you not as decid- 
edly as you onght, and they are still continued, and to your annoyance, I cat 
speedily puta stop to them.” ... 

80 paying, Nicholas kisned his mother, and bade her good-night; and they 
retired to their respective chambers. 

Mrs. Nickleby is finally convinced that her admirer is insane, 
which nobody else is slow to perceive; but she will not admit ir 
until the old gentleman has transferred his admiration to another 
lady, when she suddenly becomes satisfied that such is the ease 5 
though she persists in thinking that her rejection of his addresses is 
the unhappy cause of his madness. (Ch ili, v, x, xi, xviit-xx, xxi, 
xxvi-exxviii, xxxiii, xxxv, xxxviii, xli, xliii, xly, ly, xi, Leiii, Lxv.) 

Noggs, Newman, Mr. Ralph Nickloby’s slerk and drudge. 

Ho was s tall man, of middle age, with two goggle-cyos,—of which one was 
‘a fixtare,—a rubieund nose, a cadaverous face, and a auit of clothes —if the 
term be allowable when they suited him not at all—much the worse for wear, 
‘Very much too «mall, and placed upon such ashort allowance of buttons, that it 
‘was quite marvellous how he contrived to keep them on. .. . He rarely spoke 
to anybody, unless somebody spoke to him, . . . and [was tn the habit of rub- 
Bing] his hands slowly over each other, cracking the Joints of his Gngers, and 
squeezing them into all possible distortions. ‘The inceasant performance of this 
routine on every occasion, and the communication of a fixed and rigid look to 
‘his unaffected oye, #0 us to make it uniform with the other, and render It im- 
ousible for anybody to determine where or at what he was looking. were two 
among tho numerous peculiarities of Mr. Nogga, which struck an inexperienced 
observer at first sight. 

This man was once a gentleman; but, being of an open and 
ansuspicious nature, he falls into the hands of Ralph Nickleby and 
other knaves, who ruin him. Reduced to pove:ty, he enters 
Nickloby’s service as clerk and fag, both because he is proud and 
there are no other drudges there to see his degradation, and be- 
cause he is resolved to find Nickleby out, and hunt him down. He 
befriends and assists Nicholas, aids in unravelling his master’s 
wicked plots, and at last has the satisfaction of telling him what 
he has done, “face to face, man to man, and like a man.” (Ch. 

P 


























138 She Michens Mictlonarp. 


Ji-vi, xi, xiv-xvi, xxii, xxviii, xxxi, xxiii, xxiv, xl, ally, xlvii, li, 
il, Lil, lix, Ixifi, Ixv-) 

Petowker, Miss Henrietta. An actress whe marries Mn 
Lillyvick, and then elopes with a *halftpay captain.” (Ch, xiv, 
X¥, XXY, Xxx, xxxvi, xlviil.) See Kenwios, Lin:yvicx. 

Phobe, or Phib. Miss Squeers’s maid. (Ch. xii.) 

Pluck, Mr. A creatare of Sir Mulberry Hawk's. (Ch. xix, xxvii, 
xxvili, xxxvili, 1.) See Hawn, Sm Mocornry. 

Price, Matilda. A friend of Miss Fanny Squeers’s, engaged ta 
John Browdie, whom she afterwards murries. (Ch. ix, xii, xxix, 
xiii, xliii, xlv, Ixiv.) 

Pugstyles, Mr. One of Mr. Gregsbury’s constituents, and the 
spokesman of 9 delegation that wait on that gentleman, to request 
him to resign his seat in parliament. (Ch. xvi.) 

Pupker, Sir Matthew. A member of parliament, and chair 
man of a meeting called to organize “The United Metropolitan 
Improved Hot Muffin and Crampet Baking and Punctual Delivery 
Company.” (Ch. ii.) 

Pyke, Mr. Tond-cater in ordinary to Sir Mulberry Hawk. (Ch, 
nix, xxvii, xxviii, xxxvili, 1.) See Hawk, Sim Munpenry. 

Scaley, Mr. A sheriff officer. (Ch, xxi) 

Simmonds, Miss. A workwoman of Madame Mantalini’s. (Ch. 
xvii.) 

Bliderskew, Peg. Arthur Gride’s housckeeper; a short, thin, 
weazen, bleareyed old woman, palsy-stricken, hideously ugly, and 
very deaf. (Ch. li, lit, liv, Iii, lxv.) 

Bmike, An inmate of Squeers's house. Left with Mr. Squeers at 
an early age, and no one appearing, after the first year, to claim 
him, or to pay for his board and tuition, he is made use of asa 
drudge for the whole family. Starved and beaten, he becomes 
broken-spirited, and nearly half-witted. When Nicholas Nickleby 
arrives at Dotheboys Hall as Squcers’s assistant, his heart !s filled 
with pity for the poor lad, and he treats him with great gentleness 
and kindness; and when Squeers undertakes to flog the boy within 
‘an inch of his life, for attempting to run away, Nicholas interferes, 
compels the rufflan to desist, and gives him as severe a beating as 
Smike himself was to have had. The two then leave the school 
and the village together, and, after various wanderings, fall in with 
Mr. Crammles, who is much strack with Smike's haggard coun- 
fwnance, and secures him for his theatrical company as “an actor 





Nicholas Nickleby. 139 


for tha starved business,” bringing him out as the apothecary in 
“Romeo and Juliet,” under the stage-name of Dighy. Smike ix 
subsequently captured by Squeers, who meets him on the street ir 
London, and takes him to Snawley'’s house; but he is alded te 
eseape by John Browdie, and suecceds in finding his way back to 
Nicholas, who refuses to give him up. Introdaced to Mrs. Nickleby 
and Kate and Miss La Creevy, and surrounded by all the comforts 
and pleasures of a home, Smike gradually becomes accustomed 
to the new life upon which he has entered, and recovers much 
of his natural intelligenco; but it is not long before he begins to 
droop, and, though he rallies once or ‘twice, grows weaker and 
weaker till he dies. It is afterwards ascertained that he was the 
on of Ralph Nickleby. (Ch. vii, viii, xii, xiii, xv, xx, xxii, xxiii, 
xxv, xxix, xxx, xxxil, xxxv, xxxvii-xl, xlv, xlix, ly, Iviii) See 
Brooker, Squrens. 

Bnawley, Mr. A souctimonious, hypocritical rascal, who places 
‘His two little step-sons in the care of Squeers, at Dotheboys Hall, 
with the tacit understanding that they are to have no ¥acations, 
and are to “rough it a little.” Acting as the tool of Ralph Nic- 
kleby, he afterwards claims Smike as his son, for the purpose of 
separating him from Nicholas, and restoring him to the custody of 
Squeers; but his villany is discovered, and, to secure his own 
safety, he divulges the whole scheme, naming Ralph Nickleby as 
is employer, and implicating Squeers as a confederate. (Ch. iy, 
xxxvill, xly, lix.) 

Snawley, Mrs. His wife. (Ch. xxxvili, lix.) 

Snevellicci, Miss, A member of Mr. Crammles’s dramatic 
company. (Ch. xxiii-xxv, xxix, xxx, xlvili.) 

Snevellicci, Mr. Her father; an actor belonging to the same 
company. (Ch, xxx.) 

Snevellicol, Mrs. Her mother. (Ch. xxx.) 

Snewkes, Mr. A friend of the Kenwigses. (Ch. xiv.) 

Snobb, The Honorable Mr. A guest at the dinner-party given 
by Ralph Nickleby. (Ch. xix.) 

Bqueers, Wackford. A bruta, rapacious, and ignorant York- 
shire schoolmaster. To this person Nicholas Nickleby engages 
himself as a scholastic assistant on the faith of the following 
advertisement in the Londor papers: — 

*Epvcarion.—At Mr. Wackford Bqueer’s Academy, Dotheboys Hall, at 
the delightful village of Dothetoys, near Greta Bridgo, ia Yorkshire, youth are 

















vel or bina, aod hile trewnens & great deal tov short, be appeared El at ease in 
ae aaa one ae 1 & perpetual state of astonishment wt fading 


‘The peitleman Lad befure Mim a mall measure of coffee, a plate of hot 
Hemet, ad eel round of beets livt he wae wt thet moment Intent on preparing 
eerily lamebtnnt fr thw Ilithe boye, 

(TLE be trrumnntorth of willley le ity walter?” ead Mr, Squeers, looking down 
Hits w barge Whew 

That "* twopann'orth, lf," replied the walter, 

What a rere article wll te, to be eure, in London! Just ai that mag op 
with Libewewrin wanton, WHLIIMin | will you!” 

‘ty the wary day whet! Inquired the walter, “Why, the silk will be 
Aver niead 

‘Herre IL right fur Welug 90 done, You ordaved that thick bread and butter for 
Voreas did yout 

H Covnlag dineotly, aint 

You (eed harey yourself ahd Bqueoray * there" plenty of time. Con- 
Her YON javelin, bore, mid don't be eager wfer vittles.” As he uttered this 
Auinl frwempt, Abr. Ayers ook w largo bite out of the cold beef, and recognized 
Nlehutas, 

AMA dwey Mt Niokleby," eld Squonrs, * Flere wore abreakfasting, you see.” 

lolita dhl Wok #08 Hint Any buvly Was renkfanting exeepe Mr. Squeees. 

a) tak % Vive Wall win waler) Le Uh, Willlaws ? Mere" richneis! Think of 
a Fiat brgmmwre uid orphans In (he ptreets that woald be glad of thts, little 
beure, Wire L nay eveatorr one, the boy om the Jeff hand mearest the whmbow may 
wae avietuk 












Ah ate 

1 How ronty WiLL tell you te begla, Sebthve your appetites, amd you've com 
ered ian Galan TWle Le the way we Dnewloste strength of mled, Str 
Ntehbvka.* 

Nivivlne tuarmauced wawething tn reply; and the Bisle boys rematsed ts tor 
eval i wRpectatton 

Dak Cd Pore geet Dewakfnat | Nomiee ome may & — 

Naber one eetred Une wag rerewomety, aad Bad jest dresk caveg’ to make 
Wm a fon minen, adem Me. Sqeeers gue tte sigual for mamber fea whe gare 
Ap 48 Wr He TeteeMing Reorne tO wamber Uheve; amd the process wat Fe 
POPE hd Oe Ha wd caer Neca WEA weer Bre 























Ncpotas Nrekleby. ML 


“ And now,"#aid the ¢choolmaster, diriding the bread-and-Lutter for thres into 
Sve portions,“ you lina better 100k eharp with your breakfast; for the horn will 
dlow in a minute oF two, and then every boy eaves off.” 

‘The boys begau to eat voraciously, while the schoolmaster (who was fn high 
Food humor nfter his ment) picked his teeth with a fork, snd looked on. In w 
Very short time the harn was acard. 

“1 thought ft would n't be long.! ald Squeers, jamping up, and producing « 
Uitle basket. “Tut what you have n't bad time to eat, iu here, boys! You tt 
want it on the road” 

‘They certainly did want it on the road, and very much too; for the Journey 
‘was long, the weathor was intensely cold, a groat deal of snow fell from time to 
time, and the wind was intolerably keen. My. Squeers got down at almost 
every stage, —to stretch his legs, he said,—and as he always came back with a 
ery red nose, and composed himself to sleep directly, the atretching seemed to 
‘suswer. It wasa long Journey: but the longest lane has «turning at Inst: and 
fate in the night the coach put them down at a lonely roadside ina, where they 
found in waiting two laboring men, a rusty pony-chalae, and a cart. 

(at the boys and the boxes tnto the cart; and this young man and mo wilt 
go in the chaise, — Get in, Nickleby” 

Nicholas obeyed. Mr. Squeera with some difficulty Inducing the pony to obey 

~too, thoy #tarted off, learing the cart-load of infant misery to follow at leisure, 

“Are you cold, Nlekleby?” 

“Rather, sir, Tiust say.” 

Well, T don’t find fault with that. It’s w long Journey this weather.” 

«Ts it much farther to Dotheboys Fall, ale?” 

“ About throe mile. But you need n't call it ball down here.” 

Nicholas coughed, as if he would like to know why, 
© The fhot is, te aln'ta hall.” 

“Indeed |" 

“No, Wo call {t's hall up in London, booanse it sounds better; but they 
don’t know it by that name In these parts. A man may call his house an taland 
Ihe likes: there's uo act of parliament against that, I believe?" 

queers eyed him at tho conclusion of this little dialogue, and, finding that 
ne lied grown thoughtful, contented himself with Inehing the pony until ther 
reached their Journey's end. 

“Jumpout! Come int" 

Nicholas had tne to obserre tliat the school was a long, oold-locking house, 
ove story high, with a few straggling out-bulldings. Mr. Squecrs, having 
bolted the house-door to keep It shut, ushered him {nto a emall parlor scantily 
furnished, where they bad not been a couple of minutes when a female bounced 
Into the room, and, selzing Mr. Squecrs by the throat, gave him two loud Klases, 
one close after the other, like a postman’s knock, This lady was of a large, 
raw-boned figure, about a head taller than Mr. Squeers, and was dressed in a 
Mimity night-jacket, with her halr in papers and a dirty nighteap. (She was 
socustomed to boast that she was no grammarian, thank God! and also that 
she bad tamed a high spirit or two in her day, ‘Truly, in conjunction with hee 
worthy husband, she had broken many aud many a one.) 

* Mow ts my Squeery?” 

“Quite well, my love. How's the cows?” 

“The cows is all right,—every one x "om." 

* And the pigs?” 

© The pigs is ax well as they wax when you went away ® 
























tapis: 


2 Ede Dickens Micttomacy. * 


“Come! That’sa blessing! ‘The boys are all as they were, T sappose?” 
‘Oh, yea! The boys is well enough. Only that young Piteber '« had a fever.” 


“Nol Dymo that chap, He's always at: of that sort.” 
Pending these ). Nicholas had the 
middle of the room, tit very well knowing whether he was o: to retire 


Into the passage. Ho was now relleved from tls porpléxit by, Me, 

“This iy the now young man, my dear.” 

fern a young servant-girl brought In a Yorkshire ple and some eold beef; amd, 
{thls being set upon the table, n boy, addressed by tho name of Smike, 
with a jug of ale. VW 

Mr. Squeors was emptying his great-cont pockets of letters to diferent 
‘and other small documents which he had brought dows tn them. Ta bey elenoet 
‘with an anxioas and timid expression at the in AE eS a 
‘ono among thom might relate to him. The 
to Nioholus’s heart at onoo; focit tod along aS ‘very and history. 

Tabata Klos bs Soman: fa eioiaaca begga Rete 
observe the extraordiaary rabstare of gia Ite doae. “ikithougts 
‘ho-could not have been lees than «lghteen or mlaeteon, and was ope at, 
he wore a skeleton suit such as was thon usually put 0} Nollie 
order that the lower partof his logs might be in perfect Keeping with this bt 
dross, he had a very large palr of boots, originally mado for tops. which might 
have been once worn by some stout farmer, bat were 1 pce ih 
for a beggar. God knows how long he had heen there! but he still wore atattered 
child's frill, only half concealed by a coarse nectar Te was lame; and, 
‘as he folned to be busy in arranging the table, \gldncod at lotters With ® look 
40 Koen. and yet #0 dispirited and hopeloss,that Nicholas could hardy bear to 
watob him, 

~ What are you bothering about there, Smike?” erled Mrs. Squeers. * Lat the 
things alone; can’t you.” 

‘= WehI™ «ald Squeers, looking up. “Oh! ik yous ta it?” 

* Yer, air, Is thoro"— 

“Well! what are you stammering at?” 

“Have you—did anybody —has nothing been heard —aboat me?” 

“Devil a bit, not a word; and nover will be. Now, this en pretty sort of 
thing; {s.n't It,—that you should hare been left here all these years, and no 
money paid after the first six, nor no notice taken, nor no clew to be got who 
you belong to? It "sm pretty sort of thing that I should havo to feed m great 
fellow like you. and never hope to get one ponny for it; is w't it?” 

‘The boy pat his hand to his head as if he were making an effort to recollect 
something, and then, looking vacantly at his quostioner, gradually broke Into a 
amile, and limped away. 

“Til tell you what, Squecrs,” remarked his wife as the door closed, 
that young chap % turning ally?" 

“1 hope not; for he sa handy fellow out of doors, and worth his meat and 
‘Arink any way. Hows'eyer, should think he'd have wit enough for uw if he wea 
Willy, Buteome! Lets hare aupper; for I'm hungry and tired, and want to get 
wo bed.” 

‘This reminder brought In an exclusive ateak for Mr. Squeers; and Nicholss had 
s tough bit of cot beef, Mr, Squeers then took = bumper of hot brandy and 
water of a sti natures and Mrs. Squecrs made the ew young man the ghost of 
‘unal! 4,assful of that compound. 

‘Thea Mr. Squecrs ynwnod again, and opined that ftwas time to gotobed; upce 











“T think 





. 
Meban ! 
‘Nicholas Nlcklebp. 143 


‘Which signal Mré. Squeers and the girl dragged In a straw mattress and s coupe 
of blankets, aud arranged them into a couch for Nicholas. 

“We Nl pat you into your regular bedroom to-morrow, Nickleby, Let m0 een, 
Who sleeps in Brooks's bed, my dear?" 

“Tu Brooks’ theres Jennings, little Bolder, Graymarsh, and What's-his na 

“So there er Yes: Brooks Ia full. 

There "+ a place xomowhoro I know; but I can't at this moment call to mind 
where, However, wo 'll have that all settled tomorrow. Good-night, Nickleby 
Seren o'slock in the morning. mind.” 

_™ Behallhe ready, Good-night!” 

I don’t know, by the by, whose towel to put you on; but, If you "ll make abift 
wilh something tomorrow morning, Mrs. Squeers will arrange that Ia the course 
of the day. My deat, loo’t forget" 

Mr. Sqoee thed nodged Més. Squeore to bring wway the brandy bottle, lest 
Nicholas should help himself ia the night; wud, the tady having seized xt with 
Feat prectpitation, they retired together. 

The next morning, Nicholas is awakened very early by Squeers, 
who tells him, that it is time to get up; and also that the pump is 
frozen, so that he will have to give himself a “dry polish,” till the 
ice is bgoken in-the well. Mrs. Sao now appears on the scene, 
looking busily for « spoon which is missing, 


“Dent the things!"”’said the lady, opening the cupboard. “I can’t find the 
school spoon anywhere.” 

™ Never vaind \t, my dear,” observed Squeers in w soothing manner: “It% of 
‘ho consequence.” 

* Noconsequenes! Why, how you talk!” retorted Mrs. Squeers sharply. 
m't it brimstone morning?” 

“T forgot, my dear,” rejoined Squeers: “yes, It certainly Ia. We purify the 
boys’ Bloods now and then, Nickleby.” 

* Purlfy flddlesticks? ends!” said his indy. “Don’t think, young man, that we 
£0 to the expense of flower of brimstone and molasses just to purify them; be- 
tause, if you think we carry on the bualness fn that way, you ‘ll find yourself mie 
taken, and so £ tell you plainly." 

‘My dear, said Squeers, frowning. “ Hem!” 

‘Oh, nonsense!” rejoined Mrs. Squeers. “ If the young man comes to be « 
‘teachor here, let him understand at once that we don’t want aay foolery about 
the boys. ‘They have the brimstono and treacle,— partly because, if they had n't 
something or other In the way of medicine, they 'd be always ailing, and giving @ 
world of trouble; nnd partly because 1t polls thelr appetites, and comes cheaper 
than breakfast and dinner, So it does them good and us good at the same time; 
and that ’s file enough. I'm sure.” 


Nicholas is shortly afterwards introduced into the echoolroom. 


“There! This Is our shop, Nickleby!” 

A bare and dirty room, with a couple of windows of which a tenth part might 
1) of glass, the remainder being stopped up with old copy-books and paper; a 
tuple of old dorks, cut and notched and inked and damaged In every possible 
‘ny; two or three forms; a detached desk for Squeers, another for his asslst- 
Ant; walla #0 discolored, that {¢ was Impoasible to tell whether they had ever 
Seen touched with paint or whitewash, 














_ 





4 The Dickens Mictlonarz. 
gpllt the pops = pale and haggard fae, lank and bony Sure, chiren ith 
the 





their frail parents had descended, weeping even for the nurses they had kuown, 
‘and lonesome even ia thelr loneliness. With erery aympathy and affection 
insted in ft» birth, with every healthy feeling flogged and starred down, with 
every revengeful passion that ean feater in hearts eating ita evil way to thelr 
‘ore, what su inelplent hellt 

It wns Mr, Squeers's custom to esil the boys together, and moke m ert of 
report, after evry halfyenrly visit to the metropolis: so, fu the afternoon, the 
boys were reca led from house-window, garden, stable, and cow-yard; and the 
eclool were assembled in full conclave. 

“Lot any boy speak a word without leave,” sald Mr. Squeers mildly, “ and 2 
take the skin off bis back.”” 

‘Doath-liko silence immediately prevailed, 

“Boys, I've been to London, und have returned to my family and you as 
strong and as well as ever.” 

‘Tho boys gave three feeble cheers mt this refreshing intelligence. Such cheers! 

“Thave scen the parents of some boys,” continued Squcers, turning over bis 
papers; “and they Ire ao glad to hear how thelr sons are gutting on, that there " 
‘no prospect ut all of their son? going away, which, of course, Is a very pleavant 
thing to redlect upon for all parties.” 

‘Two or three hands went to two or three eyes; but the greater part of the 
youtig gentlemen having no particular parents to speak of—were wholly un- 
Anterested in the thing, one way or other. 

“L lrwre bad dlaappolntments to contend against, Bolder's father was two 
Pound ten short. Where is Bolder? Come here, Bolder!” 

An unhealthy-looking boy, with warts all over his hands, stepped from Iie 
pinoe to the master’s desk, and raised his eyes to the face; bis own quite white 
frow the rapid beating of his heart, 

+ Holder," aald Squeers, speaking very slowly; for he was considering, as the 
sasing goes, whero to have him, —* Bolder, if your father thinks, tht, because — 
‘Why! whats this, sir?” 

Ile caught up the boy’s hand by the euif of his Jacket. 

© What do yon call thia, air? 

“1 ean't help the warts, indeed, sir, ‘They will come. It the dirty work, I 
think, sir,-—at least, Tdow’t know what it fs, sie; but it's not my fault.” 

Bolder, you re an incorrigible young #coundrel ; aud, as the lact thrashing did 
you no good, we must see what another will do towards beating {t out of you.” 

Mr, Squeers fell upon the boy, and caned him soundly. 

“There, rob sway aa hard as you like: you won"t rub that off tn a barry. Now 
let ay aee, A letter for Cobbey. Stand up, Cobbey!” 

“Avothor boy #tood up, and eyed the letter very hard, while Squeers made = 
mental abstract of the eame, 

“Obit Copbey"s grandmother fs dead, and his Uncle John has took to drinking, 
which Is all the news his sister seads, except elghteen-pence, which will pay for 
dat broker square of glass. Mrs. Squeers, my dear, will you take the mouey 2” 

“Graymarsh,—be 's the next. Stand up, Graymarsh |” 











Nicholas Nickles; 





Another boy stood up. 

“Graymarsh’s maternal aunt Ia very glad to hear he"s so well and happy, and 
vende her respectful compliments to Mrs. Squeers, and thinks sho must be aa 
angel. She likewise thinks Mr. Squeers is too good for this world, but hopes he 
may long be spared to carry on the business. Would have sent the two pair of 
stocking, as desired, but fs short of money, #0 forwards a tract instead. Hopesy 
bore all things, thas Graymarsh will study to please Mr. and Mre. Squeers, and 
Jook upou them as his only friends; and that he will lore Muster Squeers; and 





not olject to sleeping five In a bed, which no Christian should. Ad, a delightful 
lettor; Fery affecting, indeed." 
Tt was affecting in one sense; for Graymarsh’s maternal aunt was strongly supe 





posed by her more intimate friends to be his maternal parent, 

“ Sobbe’s mothersttiIaw took to her bed on bearing that he would n't eat fat, 
und has been very ill ever since. She wishes to know by an early post where he ex+ 
pecta to go to, if he quarrels with his vittles; and with what feelings he could turn 
up his nose nt the cow'eliver broth, nfter his good master hud asked a blessing on 
it. This was told her in the London newspapers, — not by Mr. Squeers; for he is 
too kitd and too good to set anybody against anybody. Mobbe’s mother-in- 
4s sorry to find Mobbs s discontented (which Is sinful and horrid), and hopes Mr. 
Squecrs will flog him {nto a happier state of mind; with this view she has also 
stopped his halfpenny a week pocket-money, and given a double-bladed knife, 
with @ corkscrew in it, which she had bought on purpose for him, to the missions 
aries. A sulky state of feeling won't do. Cheerfuluess and contentinent must bo 
kept up, —Mobbs, come to me!” 

‘The unhappy Mobbs moved slowly towards the desk, rubbing his eyes in antl- 
eipation of good cause for doing x0; and soon afterwards retired by the alde- 
door, with ws good cauye as a boy need have, 

Mr. Squeers then proceeded to open a miscellaneous collection of letters,—some 
‘enclosing money, which Mra, Squecra ‘took care of;" and others referring to 
‘small articles of apparel, nx caps, und so forth, all of which the same Indy atated 
to be too large or too small for everybody but young Squeers, who would appear 
to have had most accommodating limbs; «ince every thing thst came into the 
eehool fitted him. 

In course of tine, Squeers retired to his fireside, leaving Nicholas to take 
tare of the boys In the schoolroom, which was very cold, and where ® meal of 
bread and cheese was served out shortly after dark. 

‘There was a amall stove at that corner of the room which was nearest to the 
tmaster's desk; and by it Nicholas sat down, depressed and selfdegraded. As he 
was absorbed in meditation, he encountered the upturned fuce of Swike, on bis 
knees before the stove, picking a few cinders from the hearth, and planting them oa 
the fire. When he saw that ho was observed, ho shrank back, expecting a blow. 
* You need not fear me, Are you cold?” 

Nano” 

“You are shivering” 

“Tam not cold. Lam used to it.” 

“ Poor, broken-spirited creature!” 

Whe had struck the wretched object, he would have slunk away without a 
word, But now he burat into teare, 

“Oh, dear! oh, dear! My heart will creak! Te will, st will!” 

“Hush! Beaman; you sro nearly one by years. God help you!" 

“By years} Oh, dear, desr! how many of them! How many of them stnon 
Fired o tiie ohlld, younger than any the, are here now! Where aro they all?” 

















146 * Ebe Mickens Mictfonarg. 


“Whom do you speek of?” 

My frlends, myself, my— Oh! what aufferings mine have deen!” 

‘There bs always hope.” 

“No, no; none for me. Do you remember the boy that died here?” 

© T wns not here, you know; bat what of him?” 

“ Ewas with him at night; and, when {t was all silent, he cried no more for 
frfends he wished to come and sit with him, but began to see faces round hla bed, 
that came from home; he sald they smiled and talked to him; and he died at last, 
Ufting his head to kiss thom, What fuoes will smile on me when I die? Who will 
talk to me in those long, long nights? They cannot come from home: they 
would frighten me, If they did; for T don't know what home is. Pain and fear, 
pain and fear, for mo, alive or dead. No hope, no hope! ” 

‘The bell rang to ded, and the boy crept away. With a heayy heart Nicholas 
soon afterwards retired —no, not retired; there was no retirement there—fol- 
lowed to the dirty wad crowded dormitory, 

A day or two after this, the poor creature Smike, in the hope of 
somehow bettering his condition, rans away. As Squeers cannot af 
ford to lose #0 valuable a drudge, he is pursued, overtaken, and brought 
back, with his legs tied under the apron, and made fast to the chaise, 
to prevent his escaping on the road. 

‘With hands trembling with delight, Squeers unloosened the cord; and Smike, 
more dead than alive, was brought In, and locked up in mcellar until such time 
‘ut Mr. Squeers should deem It expedient to operate upon him. 

The news that the fugitive had been canght and brought back ran Uke wildfire 
through the hungry community; und expectation was on tiptoe all the morning. 
On tiptoe it remained antil the afternoon; when Squeers, having refreshed him- 
self with bie dinner and an extra lbatlon, or #0, made his appearance (nocompa- 
nicd by his aminble partner) with w fearful instrument of flagellation, strong, 
supple, wax-ended, and new. 

“Is-every boy hero?" 

Every boy was there; but every boy wus afraid to speak: so Squeers glared 
along the lines to assure himself. 

‘There was a curious expression in the usher's faco; but he took his seat with: 
out opening his lips in reply. Squeers Jeft the room, and shortly afterwards re- 
turned, dragging Smike by the collar, or, rather, by that fragment of his Jacket 
which was nearest the place where his collar ought to have been. 

“Now, what have you got to aay for yourvelf?—Stand a little out of the way, 
Mre, Squeers, my dear: 1*ve hardly got room enough.” 

“Spare me, sir!” 

“Oh! that" all you "ve got to say; ie it? Yes, Ill fog you within am inch 
ef your life, and spare you that.” 

One cruel blow had fallen on him, when Nicholas Nickleby erted, “ Stop!” 

“ Who cried stop?” 

“Tdid. This must not go on.” 

Must not go out” 

“Nol Must not! Shall not! Iwill prevent it! You have disregarded all my 
niet interference In this miserable lad’s behalf; you have returned no anawer te 
the letter In which I begged forgiveness for him, and offered to be responsibly 
that he would remain quietly here, Don't blame me for this public interference 
You have trought it upon yourself, not 1.” 





j Nicbolas Nicbledp. 147 


“Sit down, beggar!” 

“ Wretch, touch him again at your peril! 1 will not stand by and seo tt done, 
‘My blood Is up, and f havo the e:rength of ten such men as you. By Heaven! ¥ 
will not spare you ff you drive me on, Ihave a series of pereonal insults to 
avenge; and my indignation Is aggravated by the cruelties practised tn this foal 
den, Haven care; for, if you raise the devil In me, the consequences will full 
heavily upoa your head” 

‘Squeers epat at him. and strack him ® blow across the face, Nicaolns im 
stantly eprang upon him, wrested his weapon from his hand, and, pinning him 
by the throat, beat the ruffian till he roared for mercy. 

He flung him away with all the force he could muster; and the riolence of his 
‘fall precipitated Mrs. Squeers over un adjacent form; Squeers, striking his head 
‘against the same form {a his descent, lay at his full length on the ground, 
stunned and motionless. 

‘Having brought affairs to this happy termination, and having ascertained, to 
his satisfaction, that Squeers was onty stunned, and not dead (upon which polnt 
ho had had some unplessant doubts at first), Nichols packed up « few clothes in 
‘small valise, and, finding that nobody offered to oppose his progress, marched 
boldly out by the front-door, aud struck into the road. Then auch a cheer arose 
as the walls of Dotheboys fall had nerer echoed before, and would never re 
spond toagain, When the sound had died away, the school was empty; and of 
the crowd of boys not one remained, 


Mr. Squeers meets his just deserts at last, being sentenced to 
transportation for seven years for being in the unlawful possession 
of a stolen will ; the result of which is, that Dotheboys Hall is broken 

| up forever. (Ch. iv-ix, xiii, xxxiv, xxxvill, xxxix, xllj, xlv, lvi, 
Ivii, lix, Lx, Ixv.) = = 


} Bqueers, Mrs, Wife of Mr. Wackford Squeers. (Ch. vill, ix, 
xiii, Ixiv.) See Squaxns, Wackrorp. 

Squeers, Miss Fanny. Daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Wackford 
Squeers; a young lady in her three-and-twentieth year, resembling 
her mother in the harshness of her voice and the shrewishness of 
her disposition, and her father in the remarkable expression of her 
right eye, something akin to having none at all. (Ch. ix, xii, xili, 
xy, xxix, xi, Ixiv.) 

queers, Master Wackford, junior. Son of Mr. and Mrs, 
Wackford Squeers. (Ch. viii, ix, xiii, xxix, xxxiv, xxxviii, xlii, 
Ixiv.) See Squeens, Wacxronv. 

Swillenhausen, Baron von. Neighbor and fathertin-law to 
the Baron of Grogzwig. (Ch. vi.) 

Swillenhausen, Baroness von. His wife. (Ch. vi.) 

Timberry, Mr. Snittle. An actor belonging to Mr. Crummles’s 
theatre. (Ch. xxi.) 

Tix, Mr. Tom. A broke whe makes an inventory of the stock 





148 She Dickens Dictfonary. 


in Madame Mantalini’s millinery establishment on the occasion of 
her sudden failures. (Ch. xlviii.) 

Tom. Clerk at the General Agency office. (Ch. xvi, xliil.) 

Tomking. One of Squecre’s pupils. (Ch. xiii.) 

Trimmers, Mr. A friend of the Cheeryble Brothers. (Ch. xxxv.) 

Verisopht, Lord Frederick. A silly young nobleman, the tool 
of Sir Mulberry Hawk. He becomes enamoured of Kate Nickleby, 
and has an angry altereation concerning her with Sir Mulberry. 
‘The quarrel leads to « duel, in which Lord Frederick is killed. 
(Ch. xix, xxvi-xxvili, xxxvill, 1.) See Hawx, Sm Muzoxrey. 

‘Westwood, Mr. One of the seconds in the duel between Sir 
Mulberry Hawk und Lord Verisopht. (Ch. L) 

William, A waiter at the Suracen'’s Head Inn. (Ch. y.) 

‘Wititterly, Mrs. Julia, A lady of the middle class, who apes 
the airs and style of the aristocracy, and with whom Kate Nickleby 
lives for a while as companion. (Ch. xxl, xxvii, xxvili.) 

Wititterly, Mr. Henry. Husband to Mrs. Wititterly. Being 
informed that Kate has applied for a situation as companion to his 
wife, he discusses the matter for some time with Mrs. Wititterly in 
whispers. At length he notices Kate, 


“Oht” he said, turninground, “yes, ‘This is most important matter. Mrs. 
‘Wititterly is of a vory excitable nature, very delicate, very fragile, a hot-house 
plant, an exotic.” 

+0 Henry! my dear,” interposed Mrs. Wititterty. 

“You are, my love; you know you are. One breath” —said Mr. W., blowing 
an imaginary feather away. “Pho! you 'ro gone.” 

‘The Indy aighod. 

“ Your soul Is too large for your body,” sald Mr. Wititterly. “Your intellect 
wears you out: all the medical men aay #0, You kuow that there fs nots phyal 
dan who it not proud of being catled in to you. What {s thelr unanimous deo 
laration? ‘My dear doctor? said I to Sir Tumley Snufim, in this very room, 
the very last time he eame,—* my dear doctor, what 1s my wife's complaint? 
‘Tell mé all. Tecan bear ft, Is {t nerves??—* My dear fellow,! he enld, *be proud 
of that woman; make much of her: she is an ornament to the Mahionable world, 
and to you. Her complaint {s soul: it swells, expands, dilates — the blood fires, 
the pulse quickens, the excitement Increases hew!'” Here Mr, Wititterly, 
who, in the ardor of his description, had flourished his right hand to within 
somathiag less than an inch of Mrs. Nickleby's bonnet, drew it hastily bua 
again, and blew his nose as flercely as if it had been done by some violent 
machinery. 

“You make me out worse than Iam, Henry,” sald Mrs. Wititterly with « 
faint mile. 

“I donot, Julia; Ido not," sald Mr. W. "The soelety In which you more-— 
necesiarily move, from your station, connection, and endowments — is one vor 
tex esd whirlpool of the most frightful excitement. .. . And for that very 























Nicholas Nickleby. 149 


‘reason you must have a companion in whom there fs great gx atlenens, gromt 
wrertness, excessive sympathy. and perfect repove.” 

‘Here both Mr, and Mrs, Wititterly, who tiad talked ther at the Nicklebys 
‘than to each other, left off speaking, and looked at thelr two hearers with an 
‘expression of countenance which seemed to say, “What do you think of all 
thot?” 

“ Mrs. Wititterly,” said her husband, addressing himself to Mrs, Nickleby, 
+ te sought after and courted by glittering crowds and brilliant elreles, She lt 
‘excited by the opers, the drama, the fine arts, the— the— the” — 

“The nobility, my love,” interposed Mre. Wititterly. 

“The nobility, of course," said Mr. Wititterly, “and the military. She 
forms and expresses an immense variety of opinions, on an immense variety of 
subjects. If some people in public life were ncqusinted with Mrs. Wititterly's 
real opinion of them, they would not hold their heads perhaps quite as high ax 
they do.” 

(Ch. xxi, xxvii, xxviii, xxiii.) 

York, The Five Sisters of. Tho title of a story told bya 
gray-baired gentleman at a roadside inn between Grantham and 
Newark, for the amusement of his fellow-passengers, who have been 
detained there by tno broaking-down of a stagecoach. The five 
sisters are reprosented as living in York in the early part of the 
sixteenth century, in an old house belonging to the black monks 
of St. Benedict. While engaged in embroidering a complicated 
and intricate pattern, they are visited by one of the monks, who 
urges them to take the veil; but, under the influence of the youngest 
sister (named Alice), they refuse to do so, believing that peace 
and virtue can be found beyond as well as within a convent's 
walls. Years pass by, bringing change and separation and sor 
row; but at last the four elder sis‘“rs meet again in the old home: 
and again the same black monk unses them by all the ¢ad memories 
of the past to sock consolation and peace within the sheltering 
arms of the Church. Remembering how the young heart of thelr 
Ist sister had sickened at the thought of cloistered walls, they agais 
refuse. As work of piety, however, as well as a memorial of affee 
tion, they cause to be executed in five compartments of stained glass 
fitted into a large window in York Cathedral (which is still showe 
there under the name of the Five Sisters), « faithful copy of theis 
old embroidery-work, through which the sun may shine brightly ox 

| @ flat stone in the nave, which bears the name of @ilice. (Ch. vi-) 





10 Ede Dickens Mictlonary. 


PRINCIPAL INCIDENTS. 


Cnarrex 1 —Sketeh of the history of the Nickleby family previous to the time of our 
story, and death of Sz. Nlekieby, father of its hero. — 11. Description of Mr. Ralph Nickiety, 
‘and of bis business; formation of the Crumpet Company. —IIl. Ralph Nickleby reeetves 
the news of his brother's death, and the arrfral of the widsw and ber ebiléren ta Loodoot 
hhe finds them ts lodgings at Miss La Creevy's, atxl proceeds to provide for them by promie 
Ing to seeurs Nicholas a situation as asatant In the academy of Mr. Wackford Squeees 
tn Torkshim. TY. Interview betwoen Mr. Squecrs and Mr. Sonwiey: Rolph and tie 
Rephew cal! upon Mr. Squoers, and Nicholas secures the situation; Nicholas fnformas New- 
man Nogys of his uncle's intentions in regard to bito.—¥. Nicholas bids ndlew to Mise 
La Creery, and leaves the house without disturbing tila mother and slater; how 3Mr. 
queer and his boys broakfusted; Ralph, Mra. Nickleby, und Kate come to see Siebetas 
off, also Newmen Noxge, who necrotly gives him a letter,—VL. On the journey to York- 
shire the coach is overtumed; while walling for another, one gentleman entertains tie 
follow-pamengurs with tho story of the Five Sisters of York nd another ope relates the 
sory of the Baron of Grogewig; they leave the stage at Greta Bridge, and Mr. Saucers 
“stretches this legs" ae bo bas frequently done on the Journey. — VII. They reach 
Dotheboys Hall, with which Sicholus ts not favorably impressed; he tw tatroduced to Mex. 
queers notices the md appearance of Binlka, and gets an idea of the internal eeonemy 
of Squeers’s extablishinents he reads Newman Nowgs's letter.— VIII. Mra. Squcers lin 
proves the boys" appetites by dosing them with brimstone and rreacle: Mr, Squeers ehiows 
ls practical mode of teaching, makes & report to the school of his Journey to London, 
‘and ndds « tiberal discipline with the cane; Nicholas shows his sympathy for Smike.—IX. 
Mra Squeer expresses ber opinion of Nicholas: Miss Fanny Squcers makes aa errand 
Into the schoolroom, in her futher" abeence, for the pirpose of inspecting Nichole; his 
¢ once falls in love wieh bim,snd hastens to inform ber 
attachmont and ita return; Miss Squeera makes m little 
purty for the purpose of Introducing Nicholas ty her friends he exeltes the Joaloury e€ Mr 
Jobin Bromiie; and Mim Frice does the same sorrice for Fanny Bquoera —X. Siae La 
Croevy paints Kato Sickleby's portealt: discussing the charsoterof Ralph Sickleby, thay 
are laterrupted by the appearance of that guntloman; Walph informa Kate and her mother 
of the situation he has obtained for her ia the establishment of Madame Mantalinl: Kate 
hse an interviow with Mr, and Madame Mantalinl,— XI. Newman Nogga moves Mra. 
Slokleby and Kate tnto the bonse of which ftalph Nickleby has given them possesalon, — 
X11. Miss Price informs Mies Squeers that her wedding-day tx fixed; Nicholas tn tay wolt 
tary walk [met by Mist Bqueers and her friend, and a scene follows In whieh he declaree 
Iie sontianents for the schootmaster's daughter: Nicholas has & cor-vereation with Smike, 
XIII. Smike runs away, is pursaed in ane direction by Squeers, and in another by Tie 
wife, and is overtaken and brought back by Mrs. Sqneerss Mr. Squeers te about to flog 
Nmulke, when be is atopped by Nicholas, who beats the brute severely. and leaves the house: 
meeting John Browdle, that worthy individual Is greatly delighted to hear of Nicholas 
exploit, and aealats him on tus ways Nicholas ta Joined by Smike. —XIV. Newman Noges 
{tends tho party of tho Kenwigwos an thoir wedding-day, and tx called away ty the arrival 
of Nicholas and Smike.—XV. Newman reads to Nicholas the eopy of Fanny Squeens's 
letter to Raloh Siokleby ; Nicholas resoaes the Infant Kenwigs from a dangerous position, 
end ninkes favorable improslon en the company.—XVI. Nicbolas, visting axl sntells 
eence-vAice In sesrwh of employment. Is struck with the appearance of s young ay whore 
the meets there; being roferred to Me. Grogsbury, M.D. he viaite that gentleman Just ae 
hho 1s waited upon hy his constituents: he finds the altastion riot adapted to his wants, 
nd he accepts, as Mr. Johnean, the position of private tutor to the Keawigs children. 
‘toters upon tho duties of chat position rndar the Inspection of Mr, TAlly-vick-—XVLE. Kabe 
Miokleby commences her labors at Madame Mantalin!'s, and ia tatroduced to Miss Kung. —~ 
XVIUL. Mist Knag conceives a warm affoction for Kato, and mskes the acquaintance ot 
Mrs, Stekisby, Kate and hor mother go home with Miss Knng to her brother's, and tearm 

























Nicholas Nickleby. Wi 


moaething of the bistory of that gentleman; Kate, being preferred by some Ladies to Mine 
Knag, loose the forewoman's good opinion. — XIX. Ralph Nickleby invites Kate to dine 
‘with himn; she ie astonished to find his house richly furnished ; Ralph introduces her to hie 
guests, Land Frederick Verlsopht and Sir Mulberry Hawk; Kate bears vkelr Insulting 
‘Manner as fong as aho can, and then burries from the room; Slr Mulberry finds her alone, 
‘sud, pursaing bls atsontions, is ingerruptod by Ralph Nioklebys Ralph and Sir Mulberry 
‘understand each other.—XX. Mies La Creery hasan interview with Miles Kuag: Diss La 
Greary is aatoniahed at tho return of Nicholas, and undertakes to prepare his mother ant 
Kate for hiscoulug; Ralpt visits the widow to lnform her of her son's mindemeanors, and 
Je confronted by Sicholas himself, who repels his charges, but who, for the sake of bie 
mother and Kate, leaves them to the care of bis unclo, and departs, — XXI. Madaine Mane 
‘tallnt’y establishment falls tnto the hands of the sheritf, Mr, Mantalin} threatens suicide; 
‘and Kave dds herself without a situation; Sry. Nickleby urgea Kato to answer an adver 
‘Usement for a companion, and she applies for nud secures a situation in that capacity 4m 
the Gamlly of Mzx, Wiultterly.—XXIL Nicholas and Amiko leave London for Poruaouth, 
Snsearch of fortane; Sicholas attempts to revive Suulks's recollections of hs childhoods 
‘they tall la. with Mr. Fincont Crammies, witness tho rehearsal of « atazecombat by the 
‘Masters Cruguplos, and Nicholas embraces the offer of Mr. Crumales, and Joins the thoat- 
sical prtasion. —XX1U. They proceed to Portamouth, Mr. Crummles giving an account 
of bie wonderful pony by the way, and Nicholas 1s Introduced to the company Mr 
Crummles announces 8 now play, of which Nicholas is to be the author, and abows bln 
how to make us of the French origianl; Nicholas dines with Mr. and Mrs. Crummles, 
‘and then fads lodgings for himself and Smiko,—XXIV, Mr, Folair and Mr, Lenville give 
Wicholas some hints of value in hile task of composition; Nicholas accompanies Miss 
‘Snevellicct in her calls on the oveasion of ber “bespeak;"* Nicholas appears tn. his new 
Piece, and moets with dociged success.—XXV. Mr. Crammieys company Is Jolned by 
‘Miss Henrietta Petowker from Loudon, and Mr. Lillyvick follows her; Mr, Liliyriok 
‘makes known to Nicholas his intentions in regard to Miss Potowkers Mr, billyrick and 
Miss Potowker aro married, and have tholr wedding-broakfast; Nicholas Instructs Sunike 
In the pare of tho Apotheoury.—XX¥L. Lord Verlsopht and Sir Mulberry Hawk determine 
to Gnd out Kate Xicklety,and Lord Frederick loarns hor address from Walph; they en 
counter Mra Siekleby, and show her particular attention, which sets that good Indy 
‘castlo-ballding. ~ XXVI. Messrs, Pyke and Pluck call upon Mr. Slokloby aa the frlends 
of Bir Mulberry Hawk, and invite her to makeone of thelr party at the play; atthe play 
sho Ands herveif in tie next box to Kate, who is In company with the Wititserlys; Sit 
‘Materry inakes 4 division of the party, so 48 to secure Kate's soeloty to himself, and bee 
‘comes more insulting in his attentions. — XXVILL Sir Mulberry and Lant Fredariok, 
backed by Fykoand Muck, follow up their advantage, and call at the Wititterlya': Kate, 
harassed beyond endurance, secks her uncle, and claims his protection, but he Cealines to 
Antertore, —XXIX. Mr. Lenvitie, Jealous of Nicholas’s Increasing popularity, treatene 
‘in with panishinent; aivempting to execute his threat Ia the presence of the company, 
‘he finds himself diesppolnted; Nicholas recolvoa warning from Nowman Nogge that bla 
presence tn London may be necessary for Kate's protection. — XXX. Mr. Craimmten mt 
anges three "last appearances" for Mr, Johnson; Nicholas, at Miss Snevellicc!'s earnest 
Invitation, accompanies that young lady home, where he becomes the hero of the dite 
feast, and Miss Snoveliiccl gives way to her feelings: the appearance of # London manager 
tp the audience creates an unusual excitement bebind the curtain; Nicholas receres 
‘xoother letter from Newman, and hurries his departure for London, XXXJ, Ralph Nickle- 
bydotects Newman watching him; Newman consults with dine La Croevy in regand to 
Kate and the return of Nicholas. — XXXII. Slobolas retama *o London, and, nwt Badin 
‘Newnan or Miss 1a Creevy, ntrolla into a hotel, where he overhears Sir Mulberry and lle 
party licentiously Jeating about Kate, and demands satisfuction: recelving only iusuit fn 
Wwply, he assaults Sir Malborry ax he ls entering bis carriage to leave, the horve takes 
fright, and Hie Dulberry receives serious injury. — XXXILL. Newman relates to Nicholas 
the position of aiiatre in regard to Kate, and Nicholas lowe no time In removing her from 
Mre Wittitterly's; Le also removes his mother and Kate back to the lodgings at Miss La 
‘Greery's. wnd returns she key of Ralpt. Nickleby's house to the owner, — XXXIV. Mem 
and Mr Mptalin! transact little busicos with Ralph Nickleby; Me. Mantalin! {aforme 









































152 Ebe Wickens Bictlonary, 


Raiph of the alteration between Nicholas and Str Mulberry Hawt ; Str. RqCeers surprises 
‘alpb hy calling apon him; they plan to retaliate upon Nicholas through his affeotion foe 
Hmike. —XXXV. Smike is introduced to Mre Nickletyy and Kate; Nicholas trles the Megte 
ter Office again for employment, and meets Mr. Charles Cheezyble, who takes im to hie 
warehouse, where ho mets Str. Ned Cheeryblo and Tim Linkinwater; he enters the em 
ploy of Cheeryble Brothers, and removes his mother and Kate to a cottage which his 
employers tot hita at Gow,—XXXVT. The Kenwigaes, rejolcing over an addition to thele 
funily, have thelr Joy tamed to geief by the news Nicholas brings of the marriage of Mtr, 
Ullyvick.—XXXVIL- Nicholas’s labors meet the entire approval of Tia Linkinwaters 
‘Cheery bie Brothers give Tim Linklawater n dinner om his birthday: Mrs. Stekleby tnorca 
‘Nicholas of the singular procentige of thelr next neluhbor.—XXXVI1L. Miss La Creery 
Rotices & sorrowful change In Stalke; Ralph Nickleby walts apon Sir Malberry Haws. 
‘and they Gixcuss his injury from the attack of Nicholas: Lord Frederick refasee to bes 
party to any aault upon Nicholas; Smike ia arrested In the street by Mr. Squeers, aot 
‘carried to Snawley's house XXXIX, John Browile and bis wife, with Miss Squeers, 
arrive ‘a Landon, and stop at the Sarucen’s Head; Mr. Squcers reports to Ohean the eaptare 
‘of Simike; accepting the sehoulwaster's invitacion to tes ak Mr, Sonwley's, Joba Deowtie 
felgns sicknems, and amists Smike to eacape. — XL. Henlke finds hia way to Newman Noges, 
‘tai is restored to Nicholas; Nicholas encounters a young lady in the room of Mr. Charles 
‘Cheerybie, whom he recognizes ax the ono he met at the lntelligence-offce, aid falls fm 
Jove with her at sight: Nicholas employs Newman to follow her servant, and find out who 
sho Ist Newman faithfully performs his trust, and appoints n meating, on Keeping which 
icholua finds that his mediator tias made a mistake ta the lady, —XLL Mra Nickleby 
‘and Kato conversing In thelr ganten, are taterrapted by the gentloman next door, who pro 
‘ceeds 10 declare his passion for Mra. Nickleby, when he ts arrested hy his Keeper, — XLII. 
Nicholas takes sapper with Mr. and Mire. John rowdie wt she Sarscen’s Mead, 0d hears 
from John the particulars of Smike"s escape trom Squeers; sudden appearance of Miss 
Squeers, with hor futher and brother; her indignation, and her departure with her rele 
tives. —XLIE, Nicholas test meets Mr. Frank Cheerybley Mx, Charles Cheeryble and his 
nephew take tea with the Nickiebys.—XLLV. Ikalph Niekleby learna with contempt that 
Sir Mulberry Hawk has left the councrys Ralph is aesosted by ® begaar who claims an old 
acquaintance with him; he refuses to assist him, and threatens him with arrest: Ralph 
witnesses a falting-out between Mr. and Madame Mantalinit returning home, Ralph finds 
Squcera and Snawiey, and gost away with them; Newman Noges, following, encounters 
2 stranger, ln whom lie becomes greatly lnterested.—XLV. Mr. and Mrs Jobm Beowdie 
‘spond a merry evening at the Nicklebys"; thetr pleasure ls Interrupted by the entrance of 
Ralph Nickleby and Squeers, who claim Smike tn the name of his father, whom they produce 
In the person of Snawlay ; Nicholas refuses to give up Sintka; and Squcers gets some rough 
treatment from John Browdle.—XLVI. Nicholas, relating the clroumstances to Mr 
‘Chutles Cheeryble, dds that Ralph has been before filmy Mr, Charles relates to Xleholas 
the history of the young lady whom he has met, and employs tim as his confidential mem 
senger In communicating with her, and Niebolws makes his first call upon Sis Bray. — 
XLVI, Newman Nope, coucealing bimacif in  cloact 1a his room, becomes witness 2e 
‘an Interview between Ralph Nickleby and Arthar Grido, In which the latter details 3e 
plans for scouring Madeline Mray ax his bride, and compounds with Ralph (or his aesheeanees 
they visit Bray, and urge Gride's suit for his daughter's hand,— XLVI, Nicholas eacoan- 
tere Mr, Vinoent Crummles, and attends @ furewoll supper given to that entleman ang 
luis family provious to thelr departure for Americas Sicholas Glscwses the morality of 
certain olnss of playwrights, and takes hls final leave of the Crummloiea—XLLX. Mine. 
Niekichy appropriates to herself the attentions of Mr. Frank Cheeryblo: Frank, and Tim 
Linkinwater, drop in at <0 Nieklebys"s thoy are astonished by the entrance, down the 
shimney, of the Gentleman in Small-Clothes: an abrupt change tn hls manner towards 
Mire, Siokloby convinces hor of his insanity, of which she thinks herself the cause; Niobe 
plas becomes alarmed at Snike's melancholy. —L. Slr Mulberry Hawk threatens revenue 
‘80 Nichola and Lord Frederick remonstrates; a quarrel between them ta « gambling» 
Brothel teads to duel, in which Lard Verlsopht ts Kilted.—L1, Arthur Gride selects te 
weddingegarmonts; Newman Nogps bears a letter from his master to Gride, and tmprover 
good opportunity to acquaint himself with Its contents; Ralph questions Newman abou 
































Nicbolas Nictlebp 153 


Brooker, but without satlafuctory result; Newman informs Nicholas of the plot between 
Ralph and Gride, by whicb the latter 1s to marry Madetine Bray: In the absence of the 
Cheery bie Brothers, Nicholas devermines to take upon himself tho respousibllity of re 
‘fmonstrating with Miss Hray.— LUI, Mr, Lillyvick retarns to the Ketrwigses, relates the 
Mory of his wife's elopement, and they become fends agaby.—LILL Purvaing his pur 
‘pose, Nicholas counsels Miss Lray to prevent the approaching marriage; fading ahe will 
‘sacrifice hecself for ber futher's ake, he goes to Gride, and tries threats upon bim, bat 
‘without effect. LIV. Arthar Gride and Ralph Niokleby go to Mr, Trays to consume 
mate the narriage; while waiting for the appearance of Bray aud Madoline, they are 
sarprised by the entrance of Nicholas and Kate; sadden death of Mr, Bray; Nicholas 
‘e2nses Halph aud Grido of thotr evil designs, threatens thern with discovery and puniahe 
ieot, and takes Madeline under his protection, —LY, Mr Nickleby surprises Nicholas 
by lafurming btm of her discovery that Frank Cheerybie has fillen in love with Katey 
Smike becomes very Hl, und Nicholas takes him to Devonshire. —LVT. Ralph Nickleby 
‘and Gride return to the lattor's house, and find it closed; forcing an entrance, they And 
dat Peg Sliderskow has robbed him of bis papers, and abseonded; Ralph Niokleby sends 
for Squoere, informs him of the theft of the papers. and engages him to recover them. — 
LVIL Squeers having found Mra Slideevkow, and secured her confidence, proceeds to 
‘examine to stolen papers; Frank Cheeryble and Newman Sopgs steal in upon them, and 
prevent the destruction of the will. —LVIL1. Smike has hls fears excited by the apparition 
Of the tan who Mist enrrledt him to Dotheboys Hall: Staike confesses to Nicholas his fove 
for Kae, and dion —LIX. Ralphs surprised ty the absence of Newman Noggs,and also by 
Aheappearance of Mr. Charles Cheeryble, to whom he refuses to listen | Ralph goer in search 
‘of Squeers, but does not find him, and thon to Giride’s, who refuses hitm entrance: be then 
00s to Cheeryblo Brothers’, where Newman Nogys confronts him, and tells Bim how he 
‘has watched his actions, and overheard his plots: they also relate to Ralph the dlacoveriox 
bey have taade ia regard to the Imposture of Snawley, the occupation of Squecrs, hit 
‘arrest, and the mplioation of Ralph in these villanies: lie sparns thelr counsel, and deges 
them to do the worst. — LX. Ralph visita Squoeraat the police-otfice, learns that the wilt 
{n favor of Madeline Bray has been lost to him, and that Squcers wo longer will ald his 
‘schemes; Tim Linkinwater carries the announcement of & freah discovery to Ralph, and 
‘conveys hla again to Cheeryble Brothers’ counting-room, where they tell him of Smike's 
Meath, and confront him with lrooker, who proves to hulm that Smike was his own son. — 
LEXI, Nicholas confesses t> Kate hs fove for Mudetine. and she toforms him that she has 
‘declined sho hand of Frank Cheeryble: Nicholas also makes known tho state of bis feel 
Inge to Mr. Charles Choerybie; Mr. Choeryble infurms Nicholas of the occurrences of the 
Preceding day, and that his uncle hes fixed an sppolutment for & meoting with tim. — 
LXIL Maiph Nickleby, when leaving the Cheeryblo Brothers, goes home, filed with r= 
more on keeping his appointment, they find him dead, hanged by bis own act. —LXIU- 
‘The Cheerybie Lrothers invite the Nicklobys and Mins La Creovy toa dinner, whore they 
‘sro surprised to sind Frank Checryble and Made.-16 Bray Drothor Charles explains the 
‘position of Madetine’s affairs, and approves her choleo of Nicholas, and also the unton of 
Prank with Kate; ‘Tim Linkinwater and Miss La Creevy agree to unite their foreunest 
‘Sewman Nogys appears tn a now charactor.—LXIV. Nicholas and Kato discover Mz. 
Mantatin! in reduced clroumstances; Nicholas visits Jobo Lirow die in Yorkabires break 
tupap of Dotheboys Mall. —LXYV. Conclaslon, tn which the eubsequent history of the 
Maacuctore is briedy told. 











Sketches of Doung Couples. 


(Pestaswe wx 1940] 





THE YOUNG COUPLE 


Adams, Jane. A housemaid. 
Anne, A housemaid at “No, 6;” friend to Jane Adams, 


Fielding, Miss Emma. A young lady about to be married to 
4 Mr, Harvey, who is “an angel of a gentleman.” 

Harvey, Mr. <A young gentleman engaged to Miss Fielding. 

John, Mr. A servant in the house of Miss Fielding’s father. 


THE LOVING COUPLE, 
Leaver, Augustus, } Two married persons, so tender, so affoo- 
Leaver, Augusta. } tionate, so given to the interchange of soft 
endearments, a3 to be well-nigh intolerable to everybody else. 
Starling, Mrs, A widow-lady enraptured with the affectionate 
behavior of Mr. and Mrs, Leaver, whom she considers a perfect 
model of wodded felicity. 


THE CONTRADICTORY COUPLE. 


Charlotte. ) A married pair who seem to find a positive pleasure 
Edward. } in contradiction, and agree in nothing else. 
Charlotte, Miss, Their daughter 

James, Master. Their son. 





THE COUPLE WHO DOTE UPON THEIR CHILOREN. 


Saunders, Mr. A bachelor-friend of the Whifflers, 

Whiffier, Mr. and Mrs, A married pair, whose thoughts at 
all times and in all places are bound up in their children, and have 
no aphere beyond. They relate clever things their offspring say or 
do, and weary every company with their prolixity and absurdity. 

pay 








Bheicbes of Young Couples. 155 


THE COOL COUPLE. 
Charles, } A husband and wife, well-bred, easy, and careless, who 
Louisa. } rarely quarrel, but are unsympathizing, and indifferent 
to each other's comfort and happiness. 


THE PLAUSIBLE COUPLE, 


Widger, Mr. Bobtail. } People of the world, who adapt them- 

Widger, Mrs. Lavinia. § sclves to all its ways, all its twist- 
ings and turnings; who know when to close their eyes, and when 
their ears; when to crawl upon their hands and knees; when to 
stoop; and when to stand upright. 


THE NICE L:TTLE COUPLE. 

Chirrup, Mr. A warm-hearted little fellow, with the smartness, 
and something of the brisk, quick manner, of a small bird. 

Chirrup, Mrs. His wife; a sprightly little woman, with an amaz- 
ing quantity of goodness and usefulness, —a condensation, indeed, 
of all the domestic virtues, 

THE EGOTISTICAL COUPLE, 

Sliverstone, Mr. A clerical gentleman, who magnifies his wife 
‘on every possible occasion by launching out into glowing praises of 
hervonduct in the production of eight young children, and the sub- 
sequent rearing and fostering of the same. 

Sliverstone, Mrs. His wife; always engaged in praising her 
husband's worth and excellence. 


THE COUPLE WHO CODDLE THEMSELVES. 
Merrywinkle, Mr. and Mrs, A married pair, who have fallen 
into exclusive habits of selfindulzence, and forget their natural 
sympathy and close connection with everybody and every thing in 
the world around them; thus depriving themselves of the best and 
truest enjoyment. 
Chopper, Mrs. Mother to Mrs. Merrywinkle. 
THE C.D COUPLE 


Adams, Jane. Ar aged servaat, who has been nnrae and story: 
teller to two generations. 


Crofts, A barber. 





Master Humphrey's Clock. 





‘Uncpme this title, on the 4th of April, 1940, Mr. Dickens started a miscellany 
‘which was to be issued in weekly numbers (at threepence each), as well as ix 
‘monthly parts, und which was to consist of short, detached papers, with occasional 
continuous stories, These were introduced and connected together by means of a 
fiction, describing an old gvatleman named Muster Humphrey, and a kind of 
club, which meets once a week at his house, io a quaint old room In which thare 
fs a tall, old-fashioned clock, from the ease of which they draw forth piles of 
dusty papers that they themselves have written, and placed there to be read at 
thelr meetings. ‘The work extended to elghty-cight parts, covering n period of 
‘nearly two years. It.was brought out in the form of an Imperial octavo, was ex- 
cellently printed on good paper, and was fllustented with wood-engravings (in- 
stead of otehings on steel) by George Cattermole, “Phiz” (HI. K. Browne), 
George Crufkshank, and Daniel Muclise,—the two Intter artists, however, furnlate 
Ang but one sketch each. 

‘The publio did not take Kindly to the machinery of Master Humphrey and his 
friends; and, to revive thelr flagging Interest, Mr. Pickwick and the two Wellers 
were again bronght upon the scene, us was alto a thind Weller, —a young Tony,— 
‘who {s Sam's son, and & counterpart {n minfatare of his grandfather. ‘This devios 
‘was successful; and the work won its way steadily to general favor; the two 
Jonger tales contained in It —“ The Old Curiosity Shop” and“ Barnaby Radgo"— 
being reckoned among the best of the author's novels, But Mr. Dickens con- 
sidered that the connecting fiction of Master Humphrey Interfered too much with 
‘the contInuity of the principal stories, and gave the whole work a too desultory 
character, He therefore eventually cancelled the Introductory, Interealary, and 
eoneluding chapters {n which this fiction was contalned, though on the cumpletion 
Of the oighty-eight parts of which the work consisted, it was {ssned In three 
volumes, — of which the first appeared In 1810, and the last two in 1841. 

In & letter to “ The Dally News,” Dootor Charles Rogers gives the following #e 
count of the origin of tho name“ Muster Humphrey's Clock.” “In 1804, in the 


soarse of a tour, Furrivod at the town of Barnard Castle, in the county of Dur. 
166 








Master Mumphrep's Clock. 1st 


bam, late on a winter evening, and put up at the principal hotel. ... At breale 
fst the following morning, I chanced to notice on the opposite aide of the street 
lange clock-fuce with the name ‘ Humphrey? surrounding it, most consplenously 
exhibited in front of a wnteh and clock maker's shop. ‘How odd!’ I exclaimed 
toa gentleman seated beside me: ‘here ¢ Master Humphrey" clock !*—<Of 
ours,’ enld the gentleman; ‘and don't you know that Dickens resldod here for 
tome weeks when he was collecting materials for hls Nicholas Nickleby, and 
that he chose his title for his next work by obserring that big elook-face from thie 
window?? After breakfast, T stepped across to the watchmaker, and asked Iuinr 
whether I had been correctly informed reepooting Mr. Dickeus and the olook, 
‘The worthy horologist entered {nto particulars. ‘ My clock,’ sald he, ‘suggested 
to Mr. Dickens the title of his book of that name. T hare a letter from him stat: 
Ing this, and = copy of the work, insoribed with his own hand. ... I got ac 
quatnted with him by his coming across from the hotel, as you have done this 
morning, and asking me to inform him about the state of the nelghboring board- 
Ing-achools’” 


CHARACTERS INTRODUCED. 


Alice, Mistress, Heroine of the tale told by Magog, the Guild- 
hall giant, to his companion, Gog; the beautiful and only daugh- 
ter of a wealthy London bowyer of the sixteenth century. She 
elopes with a gay young cavalier, by whom she is conveyed abroad, 
where shame and remorse overtake her, and wring her heart. Her 
fathor, dying, leaves all his property and trade to a trusted 'prentlce, 
named Hugh Graham, charging him with his latest breath to re 
yenge his child upon the author of her misery, if ever he has the 
opportunity. ‘Twenty years afterwards, Alice suddenly returns; 
and Master Graham (who was formerly an aspirant for her hand, 
and who still loves her) gives her lodging in his house,— once 
hers,—taking up his own abode in a dwelling near by. Soon 
after, he encounters the man who wrought her ruin, The two 
exchange a few high, hot words, and then close in deadly contest. 
After a brief struggle, the noble falls, pierced through the heart 
with his own sword by the citizen. A riot ensues; and at last 
Graham is shot dead on his own doorstep. On carrying him up 
stairs, an unknown woman ir discovered lying lifvless veneath tha 
window. 

u 





158 The Wickens H etlonary. 


Belindu. A distracted damsel, who writes a letter to Master 
Humphrey about her faithless lover. 

Benton, Miss. Master Humphrey's housekeeper, Mr, Weller, 
senior, ina moment of weakness, falls in love with her: but she 
prefers Mr. Slithers the barber; and the old gentleman, recovering 
liis “native hue of resolution,” conjures his son Samivel to 
‘him in a strait waistcoat until the fit is passed, in the event of his 
ever becoming amorous again, 

Deaf Gentleman, The. An intimate friend of Master Hum 
phrey’s, and a cheerful, placid, happy old man, It is his humor to 
conceal his name, orhe has a reason and purpose for doing so. 
Master Humphrey and the other members of the club respect his 
secret, therefore; and he is known among them only as the Deaf’ 
Gentleman. 

Gog. One of the Guildhall giants. See Toppraicu, Jor. 

Graham, Hugh. A bowyer’s 'prentice, in love with his master’s 
daughter. See Atice, Mistress. 

Jinkinson, The subject of an anecdote related by Sam Weller. 

Magog. One of the Guildhall giants. See Toopymex, Jor. 

Marks, Will. The hero of a tale which Mr. Pickwick submits 
to Master Humphrey and his friends as a * qualification ” for ad- 
mission to their club. Will is «wild, roving young fellow, living 
at Windsor in the time of James I, He volunteers to keep 
watch by night at a gibbet near Kingston, for the purpose of 
identifying some witches who have been holding hideous nocturnal 
revels there; but he finds, instead of witches, two gentlewomen, 
weeping and wailing for an executed husband and brother, He 
suffers himself to be conducted to Putnoy, where he is introduced 
to a masked cavalier, who induces him to take the body of the 
dead man by night for burial to St. Dunstan's Church in London, 
‘This task, though a difficult and dangerous one, he performs; and 
on his return home, finding the whole neighborhood worked up tc 
a high pitch of mystery and horror over his disappearance, he 
adds to the excitement by telling them a most extraordinary story 
of his adventures, describing the witches’ dance to the minutest 
motion of their legs, and performing it in character on the table 
with the assistance of « broomstick, 

Master Humphrey. A kind-hearted, deformed old gentleman, 
living in an ancient house in a venerable suburh of London. He 
is the founder of a sort of clab, which meets in his room one aight 








Master Mump)rey's Clock, 159 


fo every week, at the hour of ten. In this room are six chairs, 
four of which are filled by Master Humphrey and his frends, — 
Jack Redburn, Mr. Owen Miles, and the “Deaf Gentleman.” 
The two empty seats are reserved until they can fill them with 
two men to their mind; and Mr, Pickwick eventually becomes the 
‘occupant of one of them, while Mr. Jack Bamber is proposed as @ 
candidate for the other. In a snug corner stands a quaint old 
clock in a huge oaken case curiously and richly carved; and in the 
bottom of this case the members of the club, from time to time, 
deposit manuscript tales of their own composition, which are taken 
out and read at their weekly meetings. Among these are the two 
well-known stories called “ The Old Curiosity Shop” (the second- 
ary title of which, as at first published, was * Personal Adventures 
of Master Humphroy”) and “Barnaby Rudge.” Master Hum- 
phrey thus describes himself and his friends ;— 


“ We are men of secluded habits, with something of a cloud upon our early 
fortunes, whose enthusiasm, nevertheless, has not cooled with ago; whose 
spirit of romance isnot yet quenched; who are content to ramble through the 
world in a pleasant dream. rather than wakes again to its harsh realities, We 
‘sre alchemists, who would extract the essenco of perpetual youth from dust and 
‘ashes, tempt coy Truth in many light and alry forms from the bottom of her 
‘will, and discover one crumb of comfort or one grain of good In the com- 
‘smonest and least-regarded matter that passes through our crucible.” 


Miles, Mr Owen, A wealthy retired merchant of sterling char- 
acter; a great friend and admirer of Jack Redburn. 

Pickwick, Mr. Samuel. The hero of “The Pickwick Papers.” 
Reading Master Humphrey's account of himself, his clock, and his 
club, he is seized with a strong desire to become a candidate for 
ane of the two vacant chairs in the club, and accordingly furnishes 
a witch-story of the time of James I, as his qualification, which 
procures him the honor. See Marks, Wit. 


Mr. Pickwick’s face, while his tale was being read, would have attracted 
‘the attention of the dullest man alive. The complacent motion of his head 
and foretinger as he gently beat time, and corrected the air with imaginary 
ponctuntion; the smile that mantled on his features at every Socose passage, 
tana tho #ly look he stole around to obserre its effect; the calm manner in which 
tho shut his oyes and Listened when there was some Little plece of deseriptions 
the changing expression with which ho acted the dialogue to himself; his agony 
that the Deaf Gentleman should know what it wasall about: and his extenordl- 
‘Bary anxioty to correct the reader when he hesitated at awordin tho manu 
script, or substituted a wrong one,—were alike worthy of remark. And when 
at last, endeavoring to communicate with the Deaf Gentleman by moans of the 
finger-alobabet, with which he constructed rach words ax are unknown tn say 








160 Ebe Dieke: 





BDictlonary. 


clvilized or savage language, he took up a slate, and wrote tn lange text, one 
word in» lino, the question, Howdo-you-likeit?—when he did this, and, 
hnnding tt over the table, awaited the reply, with a countenance only beight- 
‘ened and improved by his great excitement, even Mr. Miles relaxed, and could 
not forbear looking at him for the moment with Interest and favor. 

Podgers, John. A character in Mr. Pickwick's tale; a stout, 
drowsy, fat-witted old fellow, held by his neighbors to be a man of 
strong sound sense; unele to Will Marka. 

Redburao, Jack. One of Master Humphrey's friends, and hi 
factotura. Mr. Miles is his inseparable companion, and regards 
him with great admiration, believing not only that “no man ever 
lived who could do so many things as Jack, but that no man ever 
lived who could do any thing so woll.” 

Blithers, Mr. Mr. Pickwick’s barber; a very bustling, active 
little man, with a red nose and a round bright face. He falls in 
love with Miss Benton, Master Humphrey's housekeeper, and 
finally marries her. 

Toddyhigh, Joe, An old playmate of the lord-mayor elect of 
London. The two had been poor boys together at Hull; and when 
they separated, and went out into the world in different directions 
toscck their fortunes, they agreed always to remain fast friends. 
But time works many changes; and so it happens that the lord- 
mayor elect receives his old companion very coldly when he sud- 
denly appears in his counting-room, and claims sequaintance, at a 
late hour on the very night before the grand inaugaration. 
Ashamed and distrustful of his old friend, he gets rid of him as 
quickly as possible, giving him, however, a ticket to the grand 
dinner on the morrow. Joe takes it without a word, and instantly 
departs. The next day he goes to Guildhall, but, knowing nobody 
there, lounges about, and at last comes into an empty little music- 
gallery, which commands the whole ball. Sitting down, lie soon 
falls asleep; and when he wakes, as the clock strikes three, he is 
astonished to find the guests departed, and to see the statues of the 
great giants Gog and Magog (the guardian genil of the eity) 
endowed with life and motion, and to hear them speak in grave 
and solemn voices, agreeing to while away the dreary nights with 
legends of old London and with other tales; Magog making a 
beginning by relating the first of the “ Giant Chronicles.” 

Weller, Samuel. Mr. Pickwick’s body-servant; “the same trag, 
faithful fellow” that he used to be in the days of the Pickwick 
Club, retaining all his native humor too, and all his old easy conf 








fMastee Munpdeey's Clock. 161 


dence, address, and knowledge of the world. See Weiter, Tory, 
the elider. 

Weller, Tony, the elder. The old plethoric coachman of “The 
Pickwick Papers;" father to Sam Weller. When Mr. Pickwick, 
attended by Sam, visits Master Humphrey on club-nights, old Mr. 
Weller accompanies them as part of Mr. Pickwick’s body-gnard. 
While the members of Master Humphrey's Clock are holding their 
meeting in the study up stairs, Miss Benton the housekeeper, and 
her friend, Mr. Slithers the barber, entertain the two Wellers in 
the kitchen, “) 


“7 doo’ think,” sald Sam, who was smoking with great comporure and en- 
Joyment, ‘that, if the Indy wos agreeable, it 'ad bo wery far out o” the vay for 
‘us four to make up a club of our own, like the governors docs up stairs, and let 
him” — Sam pointed with the stem of his pipe towards his parent —* be the 
president.” 

The housekeeper affubly declared that it was the very thing sho had been 
‘thinking of. ‘The barbor sald the same. Mr. Weller sald nothing; Dut he laid 
down his pipe ax if in « fit of inspiration, and performed the following 
manasuvres:— 

Tnbnttoning the three lower buttons of hix walsteoat, and pausing, for m 
mowent, to evjoy the easy flow of breath consequent upon this process, he taid 
violout hands upon his watch-chain, and slowly, and with extreme difficulty, 
drow from his fob an Immense doublooased silver watch, which brought the 
ining of the pooket with it, and was not to bo disentangled but by great exer- 
tions and an amazing redness of fuss. Having falrly got it out at last, he 
‘Aetached the outer caso, and wound {t up with a key of corresponding magni- 
tude; then put the case on again, and, having applied the watch to his ear to 
ascertain that it was atill going. gave it somo half-dozea hard knocks on the 
table to {mprowe its performance. 

“That,” sald Mr, Weller, laying It on the table, with Sts faoe upwards, 
the title and emblem o' this here society. Sammy, reach them two stools 
vay for the wacant cheers. Ladies and gen'linen, Mr. Weller’s Wateh ls vound 
up, and now wgoln’. Order!” 

By way of enforcing this proclamation, Mr. Weller, using the wath after 
the manner of a president's hammer, and remarking with great pride 
that nothing hurt it, and that falls and concussions of all kinds matert- 
ally enhanced the excellence of the works, and assisted the regulator, 
snooked the table @ great many thes, and declared the association formally 
constituted, 








‘The old “whip” presides with great dignity, and observes the 
strictest rules of parliamentary law ; thus, when Sam, in the course 
of some remarks, refers to n class of gentlemen as“ barbers,” and 
Mr. Slithers rises, and suggests that “hairdressers” would bo 
wore “soothing” to his feclisgs, Mr. Weller rules that “hain 
dressers” is the only designation proper to be used in the debato, 


‘and that all others are out of order. 
ue 








162 Che Dickens Mictlonacy. 


"Well, but suppote he was nt a hair-dresser,” suggested Sam, 

“Wy then, str, be parllamentary, and eal! him vun all the more," retarned hie 
father, “In the same vay as ev'ry gen‘iman tn another place is m Aonorable, 
ev'ry barber in this place is a hairdresser. Ven you read the speeches fn the 
papers,and see as yun gen’lman says of another, the Aonorable meniber, if be 
il allow me to eall him so, you vill understand, str, thet thot means ‘If be 
‘vill allow me to keep up that "ere pleasant and untwersal fiction.’ 

Having taken a decided fancy to Miss Benton, but being afraid 
that she is a“ widder,” Mr, Weller gets Sam to inquire as to the 
fact. He is told that she is a spinster, 


# A wot?” said his father with deep seorn, 
+A splnstor,” replied Sam. 

‘Mr. Weller looked very hard at his son for s minute or two, and then said, — 

“ Never mind yether she makes jokes, or not: that’s no matter. Wot I ay t4, 
Is that ere fomale a wider, or tx she not?" 

“Wot do you mean by her making Jokes? demanded Sam, quite aghast at 
the obscurity of his parent’s speech. 

“Never you mind, Samivel,” retarned Mr. Wellor gravely. “Puns may bo 
‘wery good things, or they may be wery bud uns, anda female may be vone the 
better, oF she may be none the vurse, for making of em: that's got nothing to 
do vith widders.” 

“Wy, now!” said Sam, looking round, “ would anybody believe ms aman at 
hls time o” life could be running bis head agin splustora and punaters being the 
‘samo thing?" 

“There an’t a straw's difference between ‘em,” sald Mr. Weller. “Your 
father did n’t drive a coach for 40 many years, not to be ekal to hia own lang: 
vidge, as fur as that goes, Sammy.” 

Mr, Weller insists upon the two words being synonymous, but is 
finally assured that Miss Benton is not a widow, which gives him 
great satisfction. 

Weller, Tony, the younger. A son of Sam Weller; named for 
his grandfather. He is a very small boy, about two fect six from 
the ground, having a very round face strongly resembling Mr. 
Weller’s, and a stout little body of exactly his build, firmly set 
upon @ couple of very sturdy legs, When Mr, Weller is first intro- 
duced to Master Humphrey, he immediately goes off, as he always 
does, into praises of his namesake, 

“Samivel Weller, air,” said the old gentleman, “has conferred upon me the 
anclent title o” grandfather, vich had long Inid dormouse, and wos s?posed to be. 
nearly hex-tinct in our family. Sammy, relate a anecdote o’ yun o’ them boys, 
—that ’ere little anecdote about young Tony tayln' as he vould smoke a pipa 
unbeknown to his mother 

je quiet! can’t you?” sald Sam. *Tneversce such a old magpie, —neyer!* 
«<That "ore Tony La the blessedest boy,” sald Mr, Weller, heedless of this ro 

buff, —“‘tho blexsedost boy as ever seo in my days! Of all the charmin'est ae 
ever I hicerd tell ou, tncludin’ them as wos Kivered over by the robin redbremsts 
arter they "4 committed sooleide, with binckberries, there never wos any like that 





Master Mumpprey's Clock. 163 


‘ere little Tony. He's always aplayin’ with » quart pot—thnt boy i, To see 
him arsettin’ down on the doorstep, protending to drink out of it, and fetching w 
ong breath arteryards, and smoking a bit of flre-rood, and sayin’, ‘Now I'm 
grandfather,’ —to see him a-doln’ that at two year old 1s better than nny play as 
‘wos over wrote, ‘Now i'm grandfather!” He would w't take a plat pot if you 
‘wos fo make him a present on it; but he gets his quart; and then he says,*Now 
‘T'm grandfather 1?” 

Mr, Weller was 0 ovorpowered by this picture, that he stralghtway fell into 
© most alarming dt of coughing, which must certainly have been attended with 
ome futal result but for the dexterity and promptitude of San, who, taking a 
firm grasp of tho shawl just under his fhther's chin, shook him to and fro with 
great violence, at the same time administering some smart blows between his 
shoulders. By this curious modo of treatment, Mr. Weller was ftually recovered, 
Dut with a very crimson face, and in w rtate of great exhaastion. 








The Old Curiosity Shop. 





‘Tm story originally appeared tn the serial miscellany called Master Hum 
phrey’s Clock,*—the first chapter in thefourth number, It ia supposed to be nar 
rated by Master Humphrey (who figures as the Single Gentleman, the brother of 
Little Nell's grandfuther), and, as at first published, tt bore the sub-itle, “Per 
sonal Adventures of Master Humphrey." 

‘The author says of this tale, “Tho many friends It won me, and the many 
hearts It turned to me when they were full of private sorrow, Invest It with an 
Interest in my mind which i not a publio one, and the rightful place of which 
uppears to be‘ a more removed ground.” I will merely observe, therefore, that, 
Inwriting the book, I had it always [a my fancy to surround the lonely figure 
of the child [Little Nell] with grotesque and wild, but not impossible compan- 
ons, and to gather about her Innocent fice and pare intentions associates as 
strange and uncopgenlal as the grimrobjects that are about her bed when her hl» 
tory is firet foreshadowed.” 





CHARACTERS INTRODUCED. 


Bachelor, The. A kind old gentleman at a village where Little 
Nell and her grandfather stay in the course of their wanderings. 


None of the villagers had cared to ask his name, or, when they knew it, to 
storo It In thelr memorles; perhaps beeause he was unmarried he had bem 
called the Bachelor. The nme pleased him, or suited him ax well as any oth 
er; and so the Bachelor he had ever sinco remained, 


(Ch lii, liv, Iv, Lei, Leviii, Lxix, Lexxiii.) 

Barbara, A housemaid at Mra. Garland’s; afterwards the wife of 
Kit Nubbles. (Ch, xxii, xxxviii-xl, xviii, Lxix, Ixxiil.) See Now 
nies, Kir. 

Barbara's Mother. (Ch. xxxix, xl, Lal, xviii, xix, Lexi.) 





7 





@lv Curlosity Shop 165 


Brass, Sally. Sister and partuer of Sampson Brass. 
In face she bore a striking resembilance to her brother Sampson. So exact, In- 





frolic, and sat down beside him, ft would have been difficult for the oldest 
friend of the family to determine which was Sampson, and which Sally; 
peelally-as the lady carried upon her upper lip certain reddish demonstrations, 
‘which, if the Imagination had been asslated by her attire, right have been mis 
taken fora beard. ‘These were, however, in all probability, nothing more than 
‘eyelashes in a wrong place, as the eyes of Miss Brass were free, quite, from 
‘ny much natural impertinences. Tn complexion Misa Brass was sallow (rather 
‘a dirty sallow, #0 to speak); but this hue was agroeably reliored by the healthy 
low which mantled In the extreme tip of her laughing nose. Her vole was 
exceedingly improsaive, deep and rich In quality, and, once heard, not easily 
. «+. In mind she was of w strong und vigorous turn, having from 
her earliest youth devoted herself with uncommon ardor to the atudy of the 
lune; not wasting her speculations upon its eagle flights, which are rare, but 
Tracing it attentively through all the slippery and cel-like erawlings in which 
i eommonly pursues ita way. ... Whether she had stecled her heart against 
‘mankind, or whether those who might hare wooed and won her were deterred 
by fears, that, being learned in the Jaw, she might hare too near her flugers’ 
ends those particular statutes which regulate what are familiarly termed ao- 
tions for breach, certain {t is that she was still {n a state of celibacy, and still 
An dally occupation of her old stool, opposite to that of her brother Sampson. 
And equally certain it 1s, by the way, that, betwoen these two stools, a great 
‘many people had come to the ground. 
(Ch. xxxiii-xxxviii, li, lvi, lwiii-lx, Ixiii-lxvii, Lexiii.) 

Brass, Sampson, A villanous attorney of Bevis Marks, with a 
cringing manner and a very harsh voice; Quilp's legal adviser. 
He is a tall, meagre man, with a nose like a wen, « protruding fore- 
head, retreating eyes, and hair of a deep red. (Ch. xi-xiii, xxxiii, 
XXxy, xxvii, xxviii, xlix, li, lvi-Ix, Lxil-Ixiv, Ixvi, Ixvii, Lxxxiii-) 

Cheggs, Mr. A market-gardener; a rival of Mr. Swiveller’s for 
the hand of Sophy Wackles, whom he finally marries. (Ch. viii.) 
See Swivercen. 

Cheggs, Miss. His sister. (Ch. viii.) 

Chuckster, Mr. Clerk in the office of Witherden the notary; a 
member of the Lodge of Glorious Apollos, and a mortal enemy of 
Kit Nubbles, (Ch. xiv, xx, xxxvill, xl, Ivi, Lx, Lev, Lxix, Lxxiii.) 

Clergyman, The. A very kind pastor at the village where Nell 
and her grandfather stay for atime. (Ch. ii, Ixxili.) See'TRest, 
Litrex New. 

Codlin, Tom. One of the Punck-andJudy showmen with whom 
Little Nell and her grandfather travel for a few days. (Ch. xvi- 
xix, xxvii, Lexi.) 











166 The Dickens Mictlonary. 


David, Old. -Analstand ty holt: soxton $a'she lags ling 
Little Nell dies. (Ch. liv.) 

Bdwards, Miss. A pupil at Miss Monflather’s educational ew 
tablishment. (Ch. xxxi, xxxii.) 

Evans, Richard. One of Mr, Marton’s pupil. (Ch. lil.) 

Garland, Mr. A little, fat, placid-faced, and very kind-hearted 
old gentleman, with whom Kit Nubbles lives after he leaves Little 
Nell. (Ch. xiv, xx, xxii, xxxvili-xl, lx, Ixvii-lxx, xxii.) See p, 648. 

Garland, Mrs, His wife; a little old lady, plump and placid, like 
‘himself. (Ch. xiv, xx, xxii, xxxvili-xl, Lxvii-lxix, bexiil.) 

Garland, Mr. Abel. Their son, articled to Mr. Witherden the 
notary, whose partner he afterwards becomes. (Ch. xiv, xx, 
xxxviii-xli, Ix, Ixv, Lxvii-lxix, Lxxiii.) 

George. Driver of Mrs. Jarley’s caravan ; afterwards her husband, 
(Ch. xxvi, xxviii, xlvii.) 

George, Mrs. A neighbor and friend of Mrs. Quilp’s. (Ch. iv.) 

Grandfather, Little Nell’s. Proprietor of the Old Curiosity 
Shop. The history of his life before the time when the story 
opens is thus sketched :— 


«There were once two brothers, who loved each other dearly. ‘There was a 
isparity in thelrages;—sometwelve yours. . . » Wide ax the Interval between 
them was, however, they became rivals too soon. ‘The deepest und strongest 
aifection of both thelr hearts settled upon one object. 

“The youngest—there were reasons for his being sensitive and watchful — 
‘was the first to find this out, Iwill not tell you whnt misery he underwent, 
‘what agony of soul he know, how great bls mental struggle was, .. . Me left 
lua brother to be happy. ‘The truth never passed his lips; and he quitted the 
country, hoping to die abroad. 

“The elder brother married her. She was in heaven before long, and left 
‘him with an Infant daughter. . 

“Tn thls daughter the mother lived agals, You may Judgo with what devo- 
tion he who lost that mother, almost in the winning, clung to this girl, her 
Dreathing image. She grow to womanhood, and gaye her heart to one who 
could not know its worth. Well! Her fund father could not see her pine and 
droop, He might be more dosorving than he thought him. 1 surely anight 
become ro with a wife like her, Ho Jolned their hands, and they were married. 

“Through all the misery that followed this union, through all the cold neg- 
loct and undeserved reproach, through all the poverty he brought upon ber, 
throagh all the struggles of their daily life, too mean and pitiful to tell, bus 
dreadful to endure, she tofled on tn the deep devotion of her spirit, and in her 
better nature, as only woman Her means and substance wasted, her father 
nourly beggared by her husband's hand, and the hourly witness (for they Itved 
now under one roof} of her {ll usage and unhappiness, she never, bat for him, 
bewailed her fate. Putient, and upheld by strong aifection to the last, she dieg 
& widow of nome throo weeks? dato, leaving to her father’s care two orphans, — 
200 # son of tem or twelve years old; the other u girl, such another Infant chile 











Olv Eurlosity Sdop. 167 


{Hhe same In helplessness, in age, in form, in feature) ae she bad Lecn herself 
When her young mother died. 

“The elder brother, grandfather to these two children, was now » broken 
Man, crashed and borne down leas by the weight of years than by the hand of 
sorrow. With the wreck of his possessions he began to trade,—in pictures first, 
‘sud then in carious ancient things. He had entertained a fondness for such 
‘matters from ® boy; and the tastes he had cultivated were now to yield him an 
snxious and precarious subsistence. 

“ Tho boy grow like his father in mind and person; the girl so Uke her mother, 
that when tho old man had her on his knee, and looked into her mild bine eyes, 
‘he felt as if awaking from # wretched dream, and his daughter were o little child 
again. ‘The wayward boy soon spurned the shelter of his roof, and sought msvo- 
eiates more congenial to his taste, ‘The old man and the child dwelt alone to- 











“Tt wns then, when the love of two dead people who had been nearest and 
dearest to his heart was all tronaferred to thie slight oreaturo; when her fice, 
constantly before him, reminded him from hour to hour of the too easly change 
hho bad seen in such another, of all the sufering he had watched and known, 
‘and all his child had undergone; when the young man’s profligate and hardened 
course drained him of money, as his father’s had, and even sometimes occasioned 
‘them temporary privation and distress, —it was then that there began to beset 
‘him, and to be ever in his mind, a gloomy dread of poverty and want, Me had no 
‘thought for himself in this. His fear was for the child. It was » spectre in his 
‘house, and haunted him night and day." 

Possessed by this overmastering desire to provide for his grand- 
daughter, he is drawn to the gaming-tablo, and tries his luck again and 
‘again, until at last he becomes — for her sake —a confirmed gambler. 
Losing heavily and constantly, but confident that fortune will finally 
favor him, he borrows money from Quilp, a rich dwarf, pledging his 
Tittle stock as security for the debt. His resources, however, are soon 
all exhausted, his shop and its contents taken on execution, and he 
Limself is thrown upon the world, a beggar, shattered in intellect, and 
tottering on the verge of the grave. Little Nell leads him away 
from London; and théy wander together through the country. But 
the passion for play only slombers in him, and is ready to awake 
with the first opportunity that offers, But in the seclusion of a quiet 
village, where they at last find a home, such temptation no longer 
ames; and his hopes and fears, and all his thoughts, are turned to the 
gentle object of his love, who soon begins to sink under the effects 
of her past trials and sufferings. Meantime,— 

“The younger brother had been a traveller in many countries, and had made his 

ge through life alone. His voluntary banishment had been misconstrued, 
snd he had borne (not without pain) reproach and slight for doing that which 
hind wrung his beart, and cast « mournful ehadow on his path. Apart from this, 
tommunication between him and the elder was difficult and uncertain, and often 
failed: still It was not xo wholly broken off but that he learned —with long Wlanks 
01 gaps betwaen each interval of information —all that I have told you now. 








168 be Pickens Wictfonary. 


“Then dreams of their young, happy life—happy to him, though laden with 
pain and early eare— visited his pillow yet oftencr than before; and every night, 
‘boy ngnin, he was at his brother's de. With the utmost speed he eould exert 
he settled his affuirs; converted into money all the goods he had, snd with hon- 
orable wealth enougl for both, with open heart and hand, with Ibs that trem- 
bled ns they bore him on, with emotion such as men ca hardly bear and live, 
arrived one evening at his brother's door.” 

When, by dint of such inquiries as the utmost vigilance and sa- 
gacity could set on foot, he at last discovers the place of the wander~ 
ers’ ietreat, it is only to find Little Nell dead, and her grandfather a 
mere wreck. Eyen Kit Nubbles, his old servant, who accompanics 
the younger brother, has no power to move him. 

“Where is she?” demandod Kit, “Oh, tell me but that, but that, doarmaster !" 

+ Sho is asleep— yonder —In there.” 

“Thank God (* 

‘Ay! ‘Thank God!” returned the old man, "I have prayed to him many 
‘and many amt many a livelong night, when sho has been asleep. He knows, 
‘Hark! Did she call?!" 

“Theard no voice.” 

“You did. You hear her now. Do you tell me that you don’t hear that?” 

He started up, and listened again. 

“Nor that?” he cried with a triumphant smile. “Can anybody know that 
voice so well maf? Hush, hush!” 

Motloning to him to be silent, he stole away into another chamber. After a 
short absence (during which he could be heard to speak in a softened, soothing 
tone) he returned, bearing fn his hand a lamp, 

She ie still asleep,” he whispered, “You were right. She did not call, une 
Joss abo did s0 in her slumber. She has called to me in her sleep before now, sir. 
As Thave sat by, watching, I have seen her lips move, and have known, though 
no sound came from them, that she spoke of me. I feared the Light might dazzle 
hor eyes, and wake her: x0 I brought it here,” 

He spoke rather to himself than to the visitor; but, when he had put the lamp 
pon the table, he took it up, as if impelled by some momentary recollection oF 
auriosity, and held it near his face. ‘Then, aa if forgetting hie motive ia the very 
action, he turned away, and put it down again, 

“Sho Is sleeping soundly,” he wid; “but no wonder. Angel-bands have 
strewn the ground deep with snow, that the lightest footatep may be lighter yet; 
and the very birds are dend, that they may not wake her. She used to feed them, 
air, Though never so cold and hungry, the timid things woald fy from us: they 
never flew from her!” 

Again he stopped to listen, and, scarcely drawing breath, listened for a long, 
Jong time. ‘That fancy past, he opened an old chest, took out some clothes ax 
fondly as if they had been living things, and began to emooth ond brush them 
with his hand. 

“Why dost thou le 40 idle there, dear Nell," he murmured, “when there are 
‘oright red berries out of doors, waiting for thee to pluck them? Why dost thou 
tie 20 Idle there, when thy little frlends come creeping to the door, crying,“ Where 
4s Noll, sweet Nell?’ and sob and weep because they do not eee thee, She was 
Always gentle with children. ‘The wildest would do her bidding: sh> had a tender 
way ith them; Indeed she had.” 











bem 





Olv Curloslty Spop. 169 


‘Kit had 00 power to speak. Its eyes were filled with tears. 

‘Her little homely dress, her fuvorite!” cried the old man, pressing it to his 
breawt, and patting it with his abrivelled hand, “She will mies it when she 
wnkes. ‘They have hid it here in sport. But she shall have it; she shall have itt 
Twould not vex my darling for the wide world’s riches, See here, those shoos— 
‘how worn they are! Shé kept them to remind her of our Ist long journey. You 
‘sce where the Little fect went bare upon the ground. ‘They told me afterwards 
that the stones had cut and bruised them, She nerer told me that. No, no, God 
bless hor! And f hare remembered since, she walked behind me, sir, that J might 
‘hot see how lame she was; but yet she had my hand io hers, and seemed to lead 
‘me still.” 

By little and Uttle the old man had drawn back towards the inner chamber 
ue these words were spoken. He polated there, as he replied with trembling 

“You plot among you to wean my heart from her. You never will do thatt 
never, while I hare life! I have no relative or ftlend but her: E never had: X 
‘never will hare! She {s all in all to mo, It is too Inte to part us now!” 

‘Waring thom off with his hand, and calling softly to her as ho went, he stole 
Auto the room. They who were left behind drew close together, and after a few 
‘whispered words, not unbroken by emotion, or easily uttered, followed him. 
‘They moved so gently, that thelr footsteps made no nolse; but there were sobs 
from among the group, and sounds of grief und mourning. 

For she was dead. There upon ber little bed she lay at rest. The solemn 
silliness was no marvel now. 

Sho was dead. No sleep so beautiful and calm, so free from trace of pain, #0 
fair to look upon. She seemod a creature fresh from the hand of God, and wait 
Ing for the breath of life; sot one who had lived, wnd #uffered death. 

Her couch was drersed with here and there some winter-berries and green 
Jeaves, gathored in a*pot she had boen used to favor. “When T die, put near 
me something that has loved the light, snd bad the sky above it always.” ‘Thoee 
‘wore her words. 

She was ded. Dear, gentle, patient, noble Nell was dead. Her little bird, « 
poor alight thing the pressuro of & finger would have crashed, was stirring nimuly: 
Jn its engo; and the strong heart of its child-mistress was mute and motionless 
forever. 

‘Where wore the traces of her early cares, her sufferings, and fatigues? All 
Fone, Sorrow was dead indeed in her; but peace and perfect happluess were 
Sorn, ieiaged in her tranquil beauty and profound repose, 

Aw «till hor former self Iny there, unaltered in this change. Yes. ‘The old 
fireside lind smiled upon that same ewect face: it had passed, Ike a dream, 
tirough haunta of misery and care, At the door of the poor schoolmaster on the 
#uihmor evening, before the furnuce-fire upon the cold wot night, at the still bed= 
side of the dying-boy, there had been the same mild, lovely look. So shall we 
kiiow the angels fn thelr majesty after death. 

‘The old man held one lunguld arm in his, and bad the small hand tight folded 
his Dreast for warmih. It war the hand she had stretched out to him with 
fast mito ; the hand that led him on through all thelr wanderings, Ever 
joi anon he pressed It to his lips; tuen hugged it to hia breast again, marmuring 
fiat It was warmer now; and as be #ald It he looked in agony to those wha 
}ood around, as if Iinploring them to help her. 

‘She was dead, and past all help, or need of It, ‘The ancient rooms abe hed 
6 
















170 Ede Dickens Wletlonarp. 


seemed (o fill with life, even while her own was waning fast, the garden she had 
tended. the evox tho hind gladdened, the noiseless haunts of many m thoughtga, 
Sse pete a rok is wee Syst ee eae ee 


vat tanoh,P aad thé edootmamees uu ‘bent down to kiss heron the cheek, 
and gave his tears froo vent, — "it 4s not on carth that Heaven's justice ends 
‘Think what earth is compared with the world to which her young spirit has 
‘winged {ts early fight; and aay, if one deliberate wish expressed In solemn terme 
above this bed could call her back to life, which of us would utter it?" 


‘They then take the old man out while Little Nell is removed to 
the churchyard; but, upon his retarn, he repairs straight to her 
chamber. 


Not finding what he had left there, he returned with distracted looks to the 
room in which they were assembled. From that he rushed into the school-mas- 
ter's cottage, calling her name, ‘They followed close upon him, and, when he 
had vainly searched it, brought him home. 

‘With much persuasive words as pity and affection could suggest, they prevailed 
upon him to sit among them, and hear what they should tell him. Then endear> 
‘ring by every little artifice to prepare his mind for what must come, and dwell- 
ing with many fervent words upon the happy lot to which she hind been removed, 
‘they told him, at last, the truth, ‘The moment it had passed thelr Hips, bo fell 
down among them like a murdered man. 

For many hours they had little hope of his qurviving; bat grief fa strong, and 
he recovered. 

If thero be any who have never known the blank that follows death, the weary 
‘void, the sense of desolation that will come upon rhe strongest mlads when 
something familiar and beloved is missed at every turn, rhe connection between 
Ananimate and sensoless things wnd the object of recollection, when every houst 
hold god becomes n monument, and every room a Rrave)— if there be any who 
have not known this, and proved it by thelr own experlenes, they can never 
faintly guess how, for many days, the old man ploed, and mopes away the time, 
and wandered here and there ns secking something, and had nO Confort, 

Whatever power of thought or memory hie retained was all bowyd up tn her, 
He never understood, or seemed to care to understand, about his other. ‘Te 
every endearment and attention he continued listless. If they spoketg him of 
this, or any other theme, © one, — he would hear them patiently fo 9 while, 
thea turn away, and go on seeking as before. 

‘On that one theme, which was In his and al! thelr minds, {t was Imposipie to 
touch. Dead! He could not hear or bear the word. The slightest hin of ig 
would throw lim Into a paroxysm like that he had had when it was first spken, 
In what hope he lived no man could tell; but that he had some hope of Citing 
her again —somo faint and shadowy hope, deferred from day to day, and mixing 
him from day to day more sick and sore at heart — was plain to all, 

‘They bothought them of removal from the tome of this last sorrow, OF eye 
Ing whether change of place would rouse or cheer him. [is brother sought 
advice of those who were accounted skilful in such matters; and they came mg 
saw him. Some of the number stald upon the #pot, conversed with him wher yg 
would converse, and watched him as he wandered up and down, alone and allen 
Bove him where they might, they «ald, he would ever seck to get back ther, 
His mind would run upon that xpot, If they confined him closely, and kept a ately 




















@lv Curlos(ty Sdop. ivi 


gvard upon him, they might hold him prisoner; but, if he could by any means 
escape, he would surely wander back to that place, or die upon the road... « 

At longth they found, one day, that he had risen early, and with his kn speack 
on his back, his staif 1 hand, ber own straw hat, and lit 
things ax she had deen used to carry, was gone. As they 
puraue him far and wide, # frightened schoolboy came, who bad seen him but « 
‘moment before sitting in the church, —upon her grave, be said. 

‘They hastened there, and, going softly to the door, expled him In the attitade 
of one who waited patiently, ‘They did not distarb him then, but kept » watch 
upon him all that day. When it grew quite dark, he rose and returned home, 
‘and went to bed, murmuring to himself, “She will come to-morrow.” 

Upon the morrow he was there again from sunrise until night; and stil at 
night he taid iim down to rest, and murmured, “ She will come tomorrow." 

Aud thenceforth, every day, and all day long, he walted at her grave for her. 
How many pictures of new Journeys over pleasant country, of resting-places 
under the free broad sky, of rambles in the fields and woods, and paths not often 
trodden; how many tones of that one welbremembered volee; how many 
glimpses of the form, the fluttering dress, the hair that waved so guyly in the 
wind; how many visions of what had been, and what he hoped was yet to be— 
rove up before tim In the old, dull, allent church] Ie nerer told them what he 
thought or where he went. He would sit with them at night, pondering with a 
necro satisfaction they could ree upon tho flight that he and she would take 
before night came agnin; and still they would hear him whisper in hie prayers, 
“Tord! let her come to-morrow.” 

‘Tho Inst time was on a gonial day In-spring, Ie did not return at the usual 
hour, and they went to seck him. He was lying dead upon the stone. 

‘They laid him by the side of her whom he had loved ao well; and, in the 
church whore they had often prayed and mused and lingered hand in hand, the 
child and the old man slept together. 














(Ch. i-iii, ix, xi, xii, xv—xix, xxiv-xxxii, xlii-xlvi, lii, liv, ly, xxi, 
Ixxii.) See Trent, Lirree Nect. 

Grinder, Mr. A showman. (Ch. xvii.) 

Groves, James. Landlord of The Valiant Soldier inn. (Ch. 

xxix, Ixxiii.) 

Harris, Mr., alias Snort Trorrens, but commonly called cither 
Suorr or Trorrers. One of the showmen with whom Little Neil 
and her grandfather travel fora few days. (Ch. xvi-xix, xxvii, Ixxiii.) 

Harry. A schoolboy; Mr. Marton’s favorite pupil. (Ch. xxiv, 
xxv, 

ae Mrs. Proprietor of “Jarley’s Wax Work.” Little Nell is 
engaged by this lady to point out the figures to visitors. (Ch. 
xxviexxix, xxxi, xxxii, xlvii, xxiii.) 

Jerry. Proprictor of a troop of dancing-dogs, (Ch. xvii, xix, 
xxxvii.) 

Jiniwin, Mrs. The mother of Mrs. Quilp, with whom sho live, 
and with whose husband she wages perpetual war, though she 








172 She Wickens Bietlonary, 


sstands in no slight dread of him. (Ch. tv-vi, xxiii, xlix, 1, Lxxiii.) 
See Quit, Danrex. 

Jowl, Joe, A gambler, who tempts Little Nell's grandfather'te 
rob Mrs. Jarley. (Ch. xxix, xiii, Lxxiii.) 

List, Isaac. A gambler and knave, (Ch. xxix, xxx, xiii, Lxxiii.) 

Marchioness, The, .\ name given tothe small servant at Sampson 
Brase’s, by Dick Swiveller, who marries her. (Ch. xxxivexxxvi. 
li, lvii, Iviii, Ixiv-Ixvi, Ixxiii.) See Swiverer, Dick; also. p. 543. 

Marton, Mr, An old schoolmaster who befriends Little Nell and 
hor grandfather. (Ch, xxivxxvi, xly, xlvi, lii-liv, Lexi, Lexiti.) 

Monflathers, Miss, Principal of a select boarding-school for 
young ladies. (Ch. xxxi.) 

or Kit. A shock-headed, shambling, 
awkward lad, with an uncommonly wide mouth, very red cheeks, a 
turned-up nose, and a peculiarly comical expression of fuce. He is 
very much attached to Little Nell, whose grandfather employs him 
as an errand-boy. After a while, however, the old man takes it 
into his head that Kit has told of his gambling-habits, and that 
this is the reason why he cannot succeed in borrowing any more 
money. He therefore forbids his ever coming into his presence 
again. After the disappearance of his old master, Kit gets employ- 
ment in the family of a-kind old gentleman named Garland. At 
length he falls into trouble, being falsely accused of larceny, and 
is arrested, and thrown into prison; but his innocence is soon éstab- 
lished, and he is set at liberty. He afterwards marries Barbara, 
‘Mrs. Garland's servant. (Ch. i, iii, vi, x, xi, xili, xiv, xx—xxil, 
xxxviii-xli, xlviii, lvi-lxi, Ixiii, Lxiv, Lxviii-Lxxii.) 

“Kit Nubbles ... 4s. pertinent example, among numerous others, of this searching 
bomanity of Dickens, Here is boy, rough, uneducated, lif vored, the son of é washer 
‘woman, tho vory opposite of a common novellat’s Idea of the Interesting, with « name 
which at once soggeste the ladicrous: yet, as enveloped In the loving hamor of Dickens, 
he becomes & person of more engrossing Interest and affection than a thousand of the 
stereotyped heroes of fiction. 

“We not only like hilm, but the whole famfly, —~ Mit. Nobbles, Jaoob, the br yy, and 
all; and yet nothing Is overcharged to the description, and évery clroamatance calou- 
lated to make Kit an object for laughter Is freely used." —2. P. Whipple 

Nubbles, Jacob. Brother to Kit. (Ch. x, xiii, xxi, xxii, xxix, 
xli, Ixi, Ixix, Lxxii.) 

Nubbles, Mrs. Mother to Kit Nubbles; a poor but industrious 
widow, very pious, and very constant in her attendance at a dissent 
ing chapel called Little Bethel. When the Single Gentleman at 
last gains tidings of Little Nell and her grandfather, he desires Mra, 








[am 








Euvioslty Shop 173 


Nubbles, as being an acquaintarce of Nell's, and a kind and moth« 
erly person, to accompany him for the purpose of bringing the 
wanderers back. There being urgent need of haste in the matter, 
Kit is despatched for his mother. He does not find her at home, 
however, and feeling sure that che must, therefore, be at chapel, he 
takes his way to Little Bethel. 


‘It was not very easy to procure direction to the fold In question, as none of 
the neighbors were of the flock that resorted thither. and few knew any thing 
more of it than the name, At Inet, a gorsip of Mre, Nubblos’s, who had seoom- 
panied her to chapel on one or two occusions, when a comfortable cup of tea 
hind preceded her devotions, furnished the needful tnformation; which Kit had 
‘no sooner obtained than he started off again, 

Little Bethel might have been nearer, and might have beon In x straighter 
road, though, in that case, the reverend gentleman who presided over Its cougre- 
gation would have lost his favorite alluston to the crooked ways by which it was 
‘approached, and which ennbled him to liken it to paradise {teelf, in contradia- 
tinction to the parish church, and the broad thoroughfare leading thereunto. 
‘Kit found [t at last, after some trouble, and pausing at the door to take breath, 
that he might enter with becoming decency, passed into the chapel. 

Te was uot badly uamed in one respect, being, in truth, » particularly little 
Bethel, —m Bethel of the mallest dimensions,—with w xmall number of «mall 
pews, and a small pulpit in which a small gentleman (by trade a shoemaker, and 
by calling a divine) was delivering in a Dy no means small voice m by no means 
‘snail sormon, Judging of its dimensions by the condition of his audience, which, 
Af thelr gross amount were but smunll, comprised w still smaller number of hearers, 
‘as the majority were slumbering. 

Among these was Kit's mother, who, finding it matter of extreme difficulty to 
keep her eyes open after the fatigues of last night, and feeling thelr inclination to 
doze strongly backed and seconded by the arguments of the preacher, hai ylelded 
to the drowsiness that overpowered her, and fallen asleep; though not ao soundly 
but that she could from time to time utter w slight und almost Inaudible groan, as 
if In recognition of the orator's doctrines. The baby in, her arms was ax fast 
asloep na she, and lictle Jacob, whose youth prevented him from recogulzing In 
this prolonged spiritual nourishment any thing half as interesting as oysterr, was 
alternately very fast asleep and very wide awake, as his inclination to slumber, 
of his terror of being personally alluded to in the discourse, gained the mastery 
over him. 

“And now I'm here,” thought Kit, gilding into the nearest pew, which wna op- 
ponite lila mother's, and on the other side of the little aisle, “how am I ever to get 
ist her, or persuade her to come out? T might as well be twenty miles off. She'll 
‘never wake till it ‘* all over; and there goes the clock again! If be would bot 
leave off for a mlaute, or if they 'd only sing!" 

But there was Ustle encouragement to believe that elther event would happen 
for a couple of hours to come, The preacher went on telling them what he meant 
Wo convince them of before he had done; and it was clear, that if he ouly kept to 
one half of his promises, and forgot the other, he was good for that time, at 
least. 

In bis desperation and restlessness Kit cast his eres about the chapel, and, hap- 
pening to let thiem fail upon a little seat in front of the clerk's desk, could scarcely 
elleve them when they showed him —Quilp! 

we 

















v4 She Wickens Wietlonary. ‘| 


‘He rubbed them twice or thrice; but still they Insleted that was there: and 
Sees, Late, Be wae, seg ah bie nance pc kis kee bis hat between 


‘help feeling, direetly, that the attention of the sly little end was fastened upow 
them, and upon nothing else. 

‘But nstoanded us ho was by the apparition of the dwarf among the Little 
Bethelites, aud not free from m misgiving that it waa the forerunner of some 
trouble or annoyance, he was compelled to enbdue hie wonder, and to take active 
‘meusures for the withdrawal of tis parent, as the evening was now creeping on, 
and the matter grew scrious. Therefore, the next time little Jacob woke, Kit set 
himself to attract his wandering attention; and, this not belng a very dificult 
task (ove sneeze effected It), he signed to him to rouse his mother. 

Tibluck would have It, however, that, Just then, the preacher, in a forcible ax- 
position of one head of his discourse, leaned over upon the pulpit-desk, so that 
‘very little more of him than his lege remained Inside, and while he made yohe- 
mont gestures with his right hand, and bold on with bis left, stared, or seemed to 
stare, straight Into little Jacob's eyes, threatening him by his strained look and 
nctitude (40 it appeared to the child), that, if he 40 much as moved 4 muscle, he, 
the preacher, would be literally, and not figuratively, “down upon him” that In 
stant, In this fearful state of things, distroted by the sudden appearance of Kit, 
send fascinated by the eyes of the preacher, the miserable Jacob rat bolt upright, 
wholly incapable of motion, strongly-disposed to ory, but afrald to do so, and re- 
turning his pastor's gaze until his infant eyes seemed starting from thelr 
sockets. 

“If Tmust.do it openly, Emust,” thought Kit. With that he walled softly oat 
of his pew, and into ils mother’s, and, as Mr, Swiveller would have observed If he 
‘hud been present, “collared” the baby without speaking o word. 

“Hush, mother!" whispered Kit. “ Comoalong with mo: I?ve got something 
to tell you.” 

“ Where am 12” sald Mev. Nubbles. 

“In thiy blessed Little Bethel,” roturned her yon peoylshly. 

“Blessed indeed!” oried Mrs. Nubbles, eatching at the word. “O Christo 
pher, how haye I been edified this night, 

“You, yos, Tknow,” sald Kit hastily, “But come along, mother: everybody 'e 
looking at us. Don't make a nolse; bring Jacob; thnt ‘« right!” 

“Stay, Satan, stay!" cried the preacher as Kit was moving off. 

“The gentleman says you 'ro to satay, Christopher," whispered his mother, 

* Stay, Satan, stay!” ronred the prencher again. “Tempt not the woman that 
doth incline her ear to thee, but hearken to the yoloe of him that calleth. He bath 
‘lamb from the fold!" cried the preacher, ralsing his voice stiit higher, and 
pointing to the baby. * Ite beareth off a lamb, a precious lamb! He gocth about 
like a wolf in the night-xeason, and invelgleth the tender lambs! * 

Kit was the best-tempered fellow In the world, but courld ring this strong 
Inngunge, and being somewhat exeited by tho cireamstances in whlch he was 
placed, he fuced round on the pulpit with the taby in his arms, and replied 
sloud,— 

* No; don't, Mo ' my brother!” 

“He 's my brother} cried the preacher, 

“Ho in n't,” sald Kit indignantly, “How can you say such a thing? And dons 
‘wil my names, if you plesvo: what harm have Idone? { should n't hare come 




















QUILP, MRS. QUTILT, AND MRS JINIWIN. 





Olv Curlosity Shop. 176 


to take "em away unless Twas obliged: you may depend upon that. Twanted to 
do It very quiet; but you would n't let me. Now, you have the goodness to 
abuse Satan and them as much as you like, air, and to let mo alone, if you 
pleuse.”* 

So snying, Kit marched out of the chapel, followed by his mother snd little 
‘Jacob, and found himself in the open alr, with au indistinet recollection of hav+ 
Ing eeen the people wake ap, and look surprised, and of Quilp having remained, 
throughout the interruption, in his old attitude, without moving his eyes from 
the celling, or appearing to take the smallest notice of any thing that passed. 


(Ch. x, xiii, xxi, xxii, xxxix, xli, xlvii xlviii, Lxi, Lxiii, Ixix, Lxxii.) 
Owen, John. A:schoolboy;; one of Mr. Marton’s pupils. (Ch. lit.) 
Quilp, Daniel. A hideous creature, full of ferocity and cunning 

He is deseribed as, — 


‘An elderly man, of remarkably hard features and forbidding aspect, and 
0 low In stature us to be quite a dwarf; though his head and face were 
large enough for the body of a giant. His black eyes were restless, sly, and oun> 
ning; his mouth and chin bristly with the stubble of a coarse hard beard; and 
his complexion was one of that kind which never looks clean or wholesome. 
But what added most to the grotesque expression of his face was a ghastly amile, 
‘which, appearing to be the more result of habit, and to bave no conacetion with 
‘any mirthful or complacent feeling, constantly revealed the fow discolored fangs 
that were yet seattered Lu his mouth, and gave his the aspect of a panting dog. 
His dress consisted of a largo high-crowned hat, a worn dark ult, a pair of 
capacious shoes, and a dirty white neckerchief, sufficiently limp and crumpled to 
Aisclose the greater portion of is wiry throat. Such hair as he had was of 
grizzled black, cut short and straight upon his temples, and hanging in » 
frowsy fringe about his cars. His hands, which were of a rough, coarse gral, 
were very dirty; his Gnger-nails were crooked, long, and yellow. 

Mr. Quilp could tcarcely be said to bo of any particular trade or calling, 
though his pursuits were diversified. and his occupations numerous. He col- 
Jectod the rents of whole colonies of filthy stecets and alleys by the water-ide, 
advanced money to the seamen and petty officers of merchant-vessels, had a 
share In the ventures of divers mates of East-Indlamen, smoked hls smuggled 
elgars under the very nose of the custom-house, and made appolutments on 
Yohange with mon In glazed hate and round Jackets, pretty well every day. 








Quilp having absented himself from home for some time, and 
not having been heard from, it is finally supposed that he is dead; 
and Mr. Sampson Brass, the attorney, is called in to write a de- 
seriptive advertisement in hopes of finding the body. Quilp re 
turns, however, just at this moment, and resolves to steal upon his 
wif unawares. 

‘The bedroom-door on the stairea*e being unlocked, Mfr. Quilp elipped in, and 
planted himaolf behind the door of communteation between that chamber and 
the aitting-room, which, standing ayar, to render both more alry, and having & 
very convenient chink (of which he had often availed himself for purposes of 
esplal, and bad indeed enlarged with his pockot-knife), enapled him not only to 
‘bear; but to see distinctly, what was passing, 











176 She Dickens Bletfonary. 


Applying his eye to this convenient place, he descried Mr, Brass seated at the 


grant lemons, white lump-sagar, and all things fitting; from which choles mate- 
rials, Sampron, by no moans Insensible to their claims upon his attention, had 
compounded a mighty giass of punch, reeking hot, which he was at that very mo- 
‘ment stirring upwith a teaspoon, and contemplating with looks In which a falnt 
‘assumption of sentimental regret struggled but weakly with a bland and comforta- 
ble Joy. At the same table, with both her elbows upon it, was Mrs. Jinivrin, no 
longer sipping other people's punch feloniously with teaspoons, but taking deep 
draughts from & Jorum of her own; while her daughter—not exactly with ashes 
00 her head, or sackeloth on her buck, but preserving a very decent and becoming 
Appearance of sorrow, nevertheless — was reclining in an easy-chalr, and sooth- 
tng her grief with » smaller allowance of the same gilts liquid. ‘There were also 
present o couple of waterside men, bearing between them certain machines 
called drags. Even these fellows were accommodated with a stlif glass aplece; 
and as they drank with a great relish, and were naturally of « red-nowed, pimple- 
facod, convivial look, their presence rather Increased than detracted from that de- 
cided appearance of comfort which was the great characteristic of the party. 
“If Teould polson that dear old Indy's rum and water," murmured Quilp, “I'd 
die happy.” 
“Ah!” sald Mr. Brass, breaking tho silence, and ralalng hla eyes to the ceiling 
with « sigh, “who knows but he may be looking down upon uk now! Who 
knows bathe may be murveylag of ux from—from somewheres or another, and 
contemplating us with a watchful eye! O Lor!" 
Here Mr, Ibrass stopped to drink half his punch, and then resumed, looking st 
the other half, as he spoke, with a dejected smile. 
“Tean almost fancy,” sald the lawyer, shaking his head, “that T see hla eye 
glistening down at the very bottom of my liquor, When shall we took upon his 
like again? Never, never! One minute we are here””—holding his tumbler be- 
fore his eyes, — “the next we aro there” — gulping down its contents, and striking 
hinslf emphatically» little below the chest—*in the silent tomb, ‘To think 
that T should be drinking his very rum! Tt seems like a dream.” 
With the view, no doubt, of testing th reality of his position, Mr. Brass paihed 
hile tumbler, a» be spoke, towards Mrs. Jiniwin, for the purpore of being replen- 
shed, nnd turned towards the attendant mariners. 
“The search has been quite unsuccessful, then?” 
“ Quite, master, But I should say, that, if be tune up anywhere, he'll come 
ashore somewhere about Grinidge to-morrow, at ebb tide; ch, mate?” 
‘Tho other gentleman assented, observing that he was expected at the Hoxpital, 
‘and that several pensioners would be ready to recetre him whenever he arrived, 
. “Then we have nothing for It but resignation,” sald Mr. Braxs;—“ nothing but 

resignation and expectation, It would bea comfort to have his body: it would 
bea dreary comfort.” 

“Oh, beyond a doubt!” assented Mrs. Jiniwin hastily. “If we once had that, 
we sould be quite sure.” 

© With regard to the descriptive advertisement,” eald Sampson Brave, taking 
up his pen. *It ls a melancholy pleasure to reall his tratts. Respecting his legs 
now 

“Crooked, certainly," sald Mrs, Jiniwin, 

“Do you think they were crooked?” said Brass in an iostnunting tome, 2 
Ybink 1 see them now, coming up the street, very wide apart, In panto 





















{ty Spop. 17 


Joons, w Ifttle shrunk, and without straps. Ah! what vale of tears we live Int 
‘Do we way crooked?” 

+ I think they wore a little 90,” observed Mrs. Quilp with a sob, 

“ Logs crooked,” said Brass, writing ax he spoke. “Large head, short body, 
legs crooked "— 

+ Very crooked," suggested Mrs, Jinkwin. 

© We'll not say very crooked, ma'am,” said Brass piously. “Let us not bear 
hard upon the weaknesses of the deceased. He {s gone, ma'am. to where his lege 
‘will never come in question. We will content ourselres with crooked, Mre, 
totwin” 

“1 thought you wanted the truth," sald the old Indy. “That % all.” 

Blox: your eyes, how I love you!” muttered Quilp. “There she goes again! 
‘Yothing but punch!" 

“This Is an occupation,” said the lawyer, laying down his pen, and emptying 
hls glass,“ which scoms to bring him before my eyes like the ghost of Hamlet's 
father, in the very clothos that he wore on work-a-tays. Iis cont, his walateoat, 
‘ls shoes and stockings, his trousers, his hyt, his wit and humor, his pathos and 
his umbrella,—all come before me like vislons of my youth. His linen!” sald Mtr. 
Brass, smiling fondly at the wall, —“ his linen, which was always of a particular 
‘color, for such was his whim and fancy, -—how plain 1 see his linen now!” 

“You had better go on, sir,” sald Mfrs. Jiniwin lmpatiently. 

* True, ma'am, true," cried Mr. Brass. “Our fucultion must not freeze with 
grief. Ili trouble you for a ttle more of that, ma'am. A question now arises 





 Aquiline!® erled Quilp, thrusting in hix head, and striking the feature with 
hia fist, —“agailine, you hag! Do you see it? Do you call this flat? Do you? 
En?” 

“Oh, capital, capital!” shouted Brass, from the mere force of habit. “ Exeel- 
Tent! How very good he Is! He a most remarkable man, — so extremely whim 
sloal! Such an amazing power of taking people by surprise!" 

‘Quilp paid no regard whatever to these compliments, nor to the dubious and 
frightened look into which the lawyer gradually subsided, nor to the shrieks of his 
swife und mother-in-tnw, nor to the latter's running from the room, nor to the fore 
mer's fuinting away. Keeping his eye fixed on Sampson Brass, he walked up to 
the table, and, beginning with hie glass, drank off the contents, and went regu- 
Jnrly round until he had emptied the other two; when he selzed the case-bottie, 
‘nd, hugging It under his arm, surveyed him with a most extraordinary leer. 

* Not yot, Sammpaon |” sald Quilp, — not Juat yet! 

“ Oh, Fory good indeed!” orled Brass, recovering his spirits a little. ‘Ha, ha, 
fai Ohh, exceedingly good! There’s not another man alive who could carry it off 
like that. A most dificult position to carry off. But he has such a tlow of goods 
heumor, snoh an ammztng flow!" 

“ Good-night |” snid the dwarf, nodding expressively. 

“ Good-night, alr. good-night!” cried the lawyer, retreating backwards towards 
the door. "This Is a Joyful occasion, indeed; extremely Joyful, In, ha, bal Ok 
ery rich, very rich indeed, remarkably 80!" 

Waiting until Mr. Brass’s ejnculntions died away fn the distancs (for he con- 
tinned to pour them out all the way down stairs), Quilp advanced towards the 
two men, who yet lingered Lu a kind of stapid amazement. 

* Hare you beon dragging the river all day, gentlemen ?” sald the dwarf, hold. 
ing the door open with great pallteaces. 




















Ap 


,) 





178 Ebe Dickens Dictlonary. 


© And yosterJas, too, taster.” 

“Dear me! you ’ve had a deal of trouble. fray cousiier every thing yours 
that you flud upon the—upon the body. Good-night!” 

‘The men looked. ir eh ocr, ek bed oieoatl no Tales bo argo the 
polnt Just then, and shuffled out of theroom, ‘The speedy clearance eifected- 
Quilp locked the doors, and, still embracing the case-bottle with shrugged-np 
shoulders and folded arms, stood looking at his insenalble wife like a die. 
mounted nightmare, 

Quilp comes to his end by falling into the Thames, and drowning, 
on a dark night, in an attempt to escape from some officers who are 
on the point of arresting him for various crimes. His property falle 
to his wife, who bears her bereavement with exemplary resignation, 
and marries again, choosing the exact opposite of the dear departed. 
(Ch. iti-vi, ix, xi-xiii, xxiii, xxvii, xxx, xli, xlviti-li, Ix, Ixii, Ixiv, 
Ixvii, Lxxili.) See Scorn, Togs. 

Quilp, Mrs. Betsey. His wife; “a pretty little, mild-spoken, 
blue-cyed woman, who having allied herself in wedlock to the 
dwarf, in one of those strange infatuations of which examples are 
by no means scarce, performed a sound practical penance for her 
folly every day of her life.” (Ch. iv-vi, xiii, xxi, xxiii, xlix, |, lxvii, 
Ixxiii.) See Qorir, Daxren. 

Bcott, Tom. Quilp’s boy, Although he is habitually beaten and 
abused by Quilp, Tom retains a queer sort of affection and admira- 
tion for his master. His favorite amusement is to stand on his 
head ; and he also adopts this attitude when he wishes to show his 
defiance of Mr. Quilp’s instructions, or to revenge himself upon 
him. Being cast upon the world by his master’s death, he deters 
mines to go through it upon bis head and hands, and accordingly 
becomes a professional “tumbler,” adopting the name of an Italian 
image-lad of his acquaintance, and meeting with extraordinary suc 
cess. (Ch. ivevi, xi, xiii, xxvii, xlix-li, Lxvii, Lxxiii.) 

Sexton, The Old. An old man at the village where Little Nell 
and her grandfather find a home. (Ch. liii-lv, Lx, Lxxil.) 

Short. See Hanns, Mr. 

Simmons, Mrs. Henrietta. A neighbor 0 of Mrs. Quilp. (Ch. 
iv.) 

Single Gentleman, The, Brother to Little Neil's grandfather 
He proves to be Master Humphrey, the narrator of the storyA (Ch. 
xxxiv-xxxviii, xl, xli, xlvii, xlviii, lv, Ivi, Levi, Lxix-Ixxili.) See 
Graxpraruer, Litt.r NELt’s. 

Slum, Mr. A writer of poetical advertisements. (Ch. xavili,) 

Sphynx, Sophronia. See Maxcionuss, Tax. 





Olv Eurcloslty Shop 179 


Sweet William. A silent man, who earns his living by showing 
wicks upon cards, and who has rather deranged the natural expres- 
sion of his countenance by putting small leaden lozenges into his 

eyes, and bringit.g them out at his mouth. (Ch. xix.) 

Swiveller, Dick. Friend to Fred ‘Trent, and clerk to Sampson 
Brass. He is first introduced on the ocension of a visit which young 
‘Trent makes to his grandfather for the purpose of demanding to 
‘see his sister, 


At length there sauntered up on the opposite ide of the way, with » bad 
Pretenoe of paxsing by accident, ® figure consplonous for Its dirty smartness, 
‘whieh, after a great many frowns and Jerks of the head, in resistance of the 
Invitation, ultimately crossed the road, and was brought Into the shop. 

“There! It Dick Swiveller," eald the young fellow, pushing him In, “Ste 
down, Swiveller." 

“Bat ly the old min agrecable?” aald Mr. Swiveller in an under-tone. 

Sit down!” repeated his companion, 

Mr. Swiveller complied, and, looking about him with a propitiatory smile, 
observed that last week was a fine week for the ducks, and this week was a fine 
‘week forthe dust: he alto observed, that, whilst standing by tho post at the street 
corner, he tind observed a pig with a straw in his mouth Lasuing out of the to- 
Dacco-shop, from which appearance he argued that another fine week for the 
ducks was pprooching, and that rain would certainly ensue. He furthermore 
took occasion to apologize for any negligence that might be perceptible in his 
dress, on the ground that last night he had had “the sun very strong tn his 
eyes,” by wehlch expression he was understood to convey to his hearers, in the 
most delicate manuer possible, the information that he had been extremely 
drunk, 

“But what,” sald Mr. Swiveller with sigh, —* what is the odds to long as 
the fire of soul Is kindled at the taper of conwiviality, and the wing of friendship, 
‘over moults feather? What is the odds so long ax the epirit Is expanded by 
means of rosy wine, and the present moment {s the least happiest of our extst» 
ence? ... 

‘Tt was, perhaps, not ery unreasonable to suspect, from what had already 
passed, that Mr. Swiveller was not quite recovered from the effeots of the powerful 
‘sunlight to which he had madealluston; but, if no such suspicion had been awak- 
ened by his epeech, his wiry halr, dull ayes, and sallow face, would still have been 
strong witnesses against him, His attire was not, as he had himself hinted, 
remarkable fur the nleest arrangement, but was in a state of disorder. which 
atrongly induced the idea that he had goue to bed in it, It consisted of # brown 
‘ody-cont with a great many brass buttons up the front, and only one behind, a 
Dright cheek neckerchief, a plaid walkteoat, soiled whi'# trousers, and a very 
Mmp hat, worn with the wrong sldo foremost, to hide @ hole in the brim. The 
breast of his cont was ornamented with an outside pocket, from which there 
peeped forth the cleanest end of a very large and very lil-favored handkerehlefs 
iis dirty wristbands wero pulled down ws farax possible, and ostentationsly folded 
‘back over his cults; he displayed no gloves, and carried a yellow cane haring at 
thatop » bone hand with the semblance of a ring on Its little dager, anda black 
bait in its grasp, Wb nll these personal advantages (to which may be added 
 ntroog savor of tobucco-smoke and a prevailing greasiness of appearance) 











180 Che Mickens Mictlonare 


Mr. Swiveller leaned back in his chair, with his eyes fixed on the ceiling, and, 
decasionally pitching his voice to the needful key, obliged the company with « 
few bars of wn intenselydismat alr, and then, in the middle of a note, relapsed 
{nto his former silence. 


‘Mr, Swiveller and Fred enter into a sort of conspiracy to marry 
the former to Little Nell, and thus get possession of the enormous 
wealth which, it is supposed, the old man is hoarding up for her. 
After the disappearance of Little Nell and her grandfather, Dick 
makes a friend of Quilp, who obtains for him a situation as clerk in 
the law-office of Sampson Brass. 


A.coach stopped near the door, and presently afterwards there was loud double- 
knock. As this was no business of Mr. Swirelier's, the person not ringing the office- 
dell, he pursued his diversion with perfect composure, notwithstanding that he 
rather thought there was nobody else in the house. 

In this, however, he was mistaken; for, after the knock had been repeated with 
Increased impatience, the door was opened, and somebody with a very heavy tread 
‘wont up the stairs, wnd Into the room above. Mr. Swiveller was wondering 
whether this might be another Miss Brass, twin-sister to the Dragon, when there 
ame a rapping of knuckles at the office-door. 

*Come in!” sald Dick. ‘Don't stand upon ceremony. ‘The business will get 
rather complicated if Tye many more customers. Come to!” 

“ Olu! please,” said a little voice very low down in the doorway, “ will you come 
‘and show the lodgings?” 

Dick leaned over the table, and descried a «mall, alipshod girl in adirty course 
‘apron and bib, which left nothlag of ber vlalble but her face and fect. She might 
‘us well havo beon dressed Ina violin-case, 

“Why, who are you?” said Dick. 

‘To which the only reply was, Oh please, wilt you come and show the lodg 
Ange?” 

‘There never was such an old-fashioned child in her looks and manner, She 
must have been at work from her cradle, She seemed ax much afraid of Dick ax 
Dick was amazed at her. 

“T have nt got any thing todo with the lodgings,” anid Dick. “Tell Yom to all 
again.” 

“Oh! bat please, will you come and show the lodgings? retarned the girl. “It 
eighteen shillings a week, snd us finding plate and linen, Boots and clothes ts 
extra, and fires in winter-time fs eiglitpence a day.” é 

“ Why don't you show ’em yourself? You seem to know all about "em," sald 

ick, 











“Mise Sally sald T'was n't to, becanse people would n't believe the attendance 
was good, If they saw how small E was first.” 

“Well; but they “Il see how small you are afterwards; won't they?" sald Dick. 

“Ah! Bot then they ’ll have taken em for a fortnight certain,” replicd the ehfid 
with a sf rewd look; “ and people don’t like moving when they 're once settled.” 

“This is a queer sort of thing,” muttered Dick, rising. “ What do you mean 
o ray you wre; the cook ? 

* Yes, 1.do plain 000! 
work of the house.” 

“1 evgpow Brass wnd the Dragon and I do the dirtiest part of it,” thougtt 





° replied the child. “I *m housemald too: Ido.ll the 





SSENOLHOUVIE SILL ANY WETTHAIMS NOIG 








Oly Curlosity Sop 181 


Dick. And he might have thought much more, belng in a doubtful and hesitating 
‘mood, but that the girl again urged her request, and certaln mysterious bumping. 
sounds on tho passage and staircase seemed to give note of the applicant's impar 
tience. Richard Swiveller, therefore, sticking a pen beliind each ear, and carrying 
another fo his moutt a» a token of his great importance, and devotion to business, 
‘hurried out to moet and treat with tho single gentleman, 


After the arrest of Kit Nubbles, in consequence of the false testi- 
mony of Sampson Brass, Dick, who has sided with the poor boy, !s 
discharged. He takes his little bundle under his arm, intending to 
go to Kits mother, and comfort and assist her. 


But the ives of gentlemen devoted to such plessures a Iichard Swiveller are 
‘extremely precarious. ‘The spiritual excitement of the Inst fortnight, working 
‘upon a system afected in no slight degree by the spirituous excitement of some 
‘years, proved a little too much for him, ‘That very night, Mr, Richard was eelzod 
‘with an warming iiiness, and in twenty-four hours was stricken with a ruging 
fever. 

‘Toxsing to and fro upon his hot, uneasy bed, tormented by # florea thirst which 
‘Lothing could appease, unable to find in any change of posture » moment's peace 
‘or ease, and rambling ever through deserts of thought where there was no rest- 
ing:place, no sight or sound suggestive of refreshment or repose, nothlag but a 
dail eternal weariness, with no change bat the restless shiftings of his miserable 
‘body, and the weary wandering of his mind, constant still to one ever-present 
‘anxloty, —to a senso of something left undone, of rome fearful obstacle to be sure 
‘mounted, of some carking care that would not be driven away, and which haunt« 
‘ei! the distempered brain, now In this form, now in (hat, always shadowy and dim, 
Dut recognizable for the same phantom jn every shape it took, darkening every 
‘ision like an evil conscience, aud making slumber horrible, —in these slow tortures 
‘of his dread disease the unfortunate Richard lay wasting and consuming iuch by 
such, until at last, when he seemed to fight and atruggle to rise up, and to be held 
down by dorils, he sank into a deep sleep, and dreamed no more. 

Heawoke, With a ronsation of most blissful rest, better than sloop itself, he 
‘begun gradually to remember something of these sufferings, and to think what a 
Jong night st had been, and whether he had not been delirious twiee or thrice. 
‘Happening, in the midst of these cogitations, to ralse his hand, he wax mstonished 
to find how heavy it seemed, and yet how thin snd light it really was. Still he 
felt indifferent and happy. and, having no curiosity to pursue the sulject, remained 
In the same waking slumber until his wttention was attracted by w cough. ‘This 
made him doubt whether he had locked his door last night, and feel a tittle 
turprised at having a companion in the room. Still he Incked energy to follow 
up this train of thought, and... was rambling {n imagination . . . when he 
heard the cough once more. Raising himself a little in the bed, aud holding the 
vurtain open with one hand, ho looked out. 

‘The sume room, certainty, and scitl by candlelight; but with what unbounded 
‘astonishment did he see all those bottles and basins, and articles of tines airing 
‘by the fire,and auch like furniture of a sick-chamber,—all very clean and neat, but 
sit quite diiferent from nuy thing he left there when he went to bed! The atmos 
there, too, filled with « cool amell of herbs aud vinegar, the floor newly sprinkled, 
the —the what? The Marchloness ? 

‘Yes; playing eribbage with herself at the table. ‘There she sat, Intent upon 
sr gamma, cughing now and then in a subdued manner as if sie feared to distur 

6 

















182 Ede Die 





5 Wietlonary. 


him,—shuMling the cards, catting, dealing, playing, counting, pegging, — going 
through all the mysteries of orlbbage as if she had been in fay practios from her 
eradle! 


Mr. Swiveller raised the curtain again, determined to take the first favorable 
opportunity of addressing his companion, An occasion xoon presented Itself 
The Marchioness dealt, turned up a knave, and omitted to take the usual ndyan- 
tage; upon which Mr. Swiveller called out as loud xa he could, “Two for hiv 
heels! ™ 

‘The Marchioness Jumped up quickly, and clapped her hands... , forJoy, « «+ 
declaring . . . thnt she wns ‘+0 glad she did n't know whmt to do."* 

“ Marchioness,” said Mr. Swiveller thoughtfully, “ be pleased to draw nearer 
First of all, will you have the goodness to Inform me where Isball find my voles, 
‘and, secondly, what has become of my flesh?” 

‘The Marchioness only ahook her head mournfully, and eried again; whereupon 
Mr. Swiveilor (boing vory weak) felt his own eyes affected likewise, 

“Ibegin to infer from your manner and these appearances, Marchioness,” 
sald Richard after a pause, and amiling with a trembling lp, “that I have been 
i" 

“ You Just have! ” replied the email servant, wiping her eyes. “And haven't 
you been a-talking nonsense!" 

* Oht snid Dick. * Very til, Murchioness, have f been?” 
‘Dead, all but,” replied the mall servant. “I never thought you'd get better. 
‘Thank Heaven you hare!” 

‘Mr. Swivelier was ellent for a long while, By and by he begun to talk again, 
Inquiring how long he had been there. 

“Three weoks to-morrow," replied the small servant. 

“Three what ?” said Dick. 

© Wooks,” returned the Marehioness emphatically, —“ three long. slow weeks. 

‘The bare thought of having been in uch extremity eanved Itfchard to fall Into 
smother silence, and to fe lat down again at his full-length. ‘The Marehioness, 
having arranged the bed-clothes more comfortably, and felt that his hands and 
forehead were quite ool, — discovery that filled hor with delight, —orled a little 
more, and thon applied herself to getting tea ready, and making some thin dry 
tomet. 

While she wns thas engaged. Mr. Swiveller looked on with m grateful heart, very 
sanch astonished to see how thoroughly at home she made herself, and attributing 
‘this attention, {n Its origio, to Sally Brass, whom, in his owa mind, be could not 
thank enough. When the Marchioness had finished her toasting, she spread « 
¢lean cloth on # tray, and brought him some crisp slices and a great basin of weak 
tea, with which (she sald) the doctor bad left word he might refresh himself when 
heawokn, She propped him up with pillows, if not as skilfully as if she hnd been 
professional nurve all her life, at least as tenderly, and looked on with anattera- 
ble satisfuction while the patient — stopping every now and then to shake her by 
the band — took his poor meal with an appetite and relish which the greatest 
Aainties of the earth,under any other circumstances, would have failed to pro 
rok», Having cleared away, and disposed every thing comfortably about him 
again, she snt down at the table to take her own ten. 

“4 Marehioness,” sald Mr. Swiveller, “how wally 2” 

‘The small vervant screwed her faoe into an expression of the very uttermoe 
entanglement of riyness, aod shook her head. 

* What! have n’t you seen her lately ?” said Dick. 

Seen her!” cried the amall servant, * Iles you, I've run away!” 





























@lv Curlostty Spo 





‘Mr. Swivetter immediately laid himself down again quite flat, and so remained 
for about five minutes. By slow degroes he resumed his altting posture after that 
‘Bpe of time, and Inqatred, — 

“ Aud where do you live, Marchloness ? * 

Lien!" eried the amalt servant. “ Here!” 

“Ob!” eaid Mr. Swiveller. 

And with that he fell down flat again as mddonly ws If he had been shot. 
Thar he remained, motionless, and bereft of speech, until she had finished her 
‘meat, put every thing In ita place, and awept the hearth; when he motioned her 
to bring a chair to the bedside, and, being propped up again, opened » further 
conversation, 

™ And #0,” sald Dick, “ you hare run away?” 

“ Yes,” sali the Marchtonoss; “and they "ve been w-tizing of me.” 

“ Been —I beg your pardon,” sald Dick,—“‘ what have they been doing? * 

“Been atizing of me —tizing, you know, in the newspapers.” rejoined the 
‘Marchioness. 

* Ay, ay,” sald Dick, —“ advertising?” 

‘The small sorvant nodded and winked. Her eyos were so red with waking and 
trying, that the Tragic Muse might have winked with greater conslstency. And 
#0 Dick felt. 

“Tell me," sald he, how it was that you thought of coming here.” 

“Why, you see,” returned the Marchlonoss, “when you was gone, I had n't 
say friend at nll, becanse the lodger he never come back, and { did n't know whore 
cither him or you was to be found, you know. But one morning, when I was” — 

# Was near a keyhole,” anggested Mr. Swivelier, observing that she faltered. 

Well, then,” said the small servant, nodding, —"* when I was near the office 
Keyhole, —as you see me through, you know, — I heard somebody aaying that she 
lived here, and was the lady whose house you lodged at; and that yon was took 
very bad; nnd would n't nobody come and take care of you? Mr. Bross he says, 
*It’« no business of mine.’ he says; and Miss Sally she anys, ‘Ho's « funny chap; 
‘but tt 6 no business of mine.’ And the lady went away, and slammed the door to 
when she went out, Ioan tell you, So I run away that night, and come here, and 
told ‘em you was my brother; and they believed me; and I've been hero ever 
seinen” 

Tn the end, Kit is released, and returned to his frionds. Dick falls 
into an annuity of one hundred and fifty pounds a year, and, being 
‘very grateful to the Marchioness, his first thought is of her. “ Please 
God” he says, “we ‘ll make a scholar of the poor Marchioness yet! 
And she shall walk in silk attire, and siller have to spare, or may 


never rise from this bed again!" 


After casting about for some time for a name which should be worthy of her, 
hedeclded in fivor of Sophronia Sphynx, as being eupbontour and genteel, and, 
furthermore, indicative of mystery. Under this title, the Marchloness repaired, in 
‘ears, to 6 school of his selection, from which, as she soon distanced all compet 
sors. she was removed before the lapse of many quarters to one of a higher 
rade, Tt 44 but bare Justice to Mr, Swiveller to vay, that, although the expenses 
‘pf her edusarion kept him In straitened elrournstances for half a dozen years, 
‘bo never slackened In his zoal. and always held himvelf sufficiently repald by the 
‘Acoounte he heard (with great gravity) of her advancement, on his monthly visite 
© the governess, who looked wyon him as a lit rary gentleman of eccentric habits, 
and of & most prodigious talent In quotation, 





























184 Ede Dickens Wietlonary. 


‘Ina word, Mr. Swiveller kept the Marchioners at this establishment until ene 
‘wns, at a moderate guess, full nineteen years of age, good-looking, lever, and 
jood-hurnored, when he began to consider seriously what was to be dono next. 
‘On one of his pertodical visits, while he was revolving this question in his mind, 
the Marchioness came down to him alone, looking more smnillug ani more fresh 
‘than ever. ‘Then it oocurred to him (but not for the first time), that, If she would 
‘marry him, how comfortable they might be! So Richard asked her. Whaterer 
she sald. tt was n't No; and they were married In good earnest that day week 
‘which gave Mr, Swiveller frequent occasion to remark at divers subsequent perk: 
ods that there had been a young lady saving up for him after all. 

(Ch. ii, ii, vit, viii, xiii, xxi, xxiii, xxxiv—xxxviii, xlviii, |, Ivielxvi, 
Lxxili. 

“Ono of his greatest creations. We are not anre that we do not, aaa matterof Individ- 
‘ual opinion, placo Dick on pinnacle above all the rest, —a pinnacle which, perhaps, be 
may divide with the Micawbora, inimitable pair!) but which not even Sam Weller could. 
reach. Sam is asauoy fellow, whom we all know we would not tolorave in our service 
fon day, useful aso was to Mr. Pickwick; but Dick Swivellor we take to our bosom. 
ils vory dlesipatedness, his indebtedness, "tho rosy * which he passes so tach too often, 
the idle ways which wo cannot help soaing, — wo look upon all with Indulgent eyes. 
Je nover a binckgaard in his lowest days: even the people In those streets which he 
‘up gradually by buying a pair of gloves in one plaoe, and a pot of pomade in another, must 
Ihave missed him when he no longer went by im his checked trousers, awinging his cane. 
+ + + In the chaptera which disouss and dosoribe Diok Swiveller, there Is more true humor 
‘than In all the rest of Dickens; for he, perhaps, alone of all the many personages of Bin 
family, has got tho love of his author, Hes treated fondly, with # gentle touch; he. is 
made fun of tenderly: he t¢ cunningly recommonded to our affections, na © man recom 
mends @ truant-boy, who is the light of his eyes, in all manner of soft pretended reproach 
‘oxand fond abuse, Ho te almost tho only man disabled, and Incapable of helping Wim 
self of whom Dickens makes afhvorite. .... When the Marehloness comes upon the stage, 
tho ploture ix perfect. . . » ‘The honest fellow's goodness to the forlorn child, the perfect 
caso with which he adapts himself to her society, the little fiction (so qualnlly nonsen- 
teal, yet, after a while, so real) which he weaves about her, —to all this wo know searoely 
any match inthe language, and certainty nothing more humorous and captivating." — 
Bloetwood's Mag., vol, CIX, pp, 59-85. 

Inch of Dickona's moxt exquisite and mont exuberant humor ls displayed tn rep 
resenting characters compounded of vanity, concelt, and axurance. ... Mr. Wchant 
Swiveller is probably the most splendid speotmen of tho class, and is ® fine example 
of the fellcity with which Dickens cun tread the dizxiext edges of character without 
sinking into mero caricature. Dick is a sort of ababby Sir Harry Wildair, « recklos 
feather-brained, good-natured vagabond, with no depth of gulls, and whoxe trregularl- 
Ules are the result Of dienes, vanity, egotism. and a great flow of spirits, With w-vaet 
ypinion of his own abilities, he is still overreached by every knave he encounterss 
and his life Is descent from one ‘erusher to snother, He Is so vain, that be almost 
Delloven his own solfexalting Nes; and ho carmot possibly ace things as they art 
is hoad is full of soreps of songs wnd plays, which he has a singular felic:tona 
Jelty tn quoting to sustain the sentiment of the momont; and hie slang, erer accompany 
ing hissentiment, {9 as charncteristic as the soil on hils linen, orthe marks of Time's effhe 
sing Angers” on his flax coat . , . Dick" Imaginative vanity absolutely deceives ie 
own sensea. Ho calls a fight In which tis own fuce la damaged a festive eeene; ho asks 
‘Nin companion in punch to pas the rosy winoy he pays for his liquor hy solemnly advie- 
tng the boy at the bar never to touch spitita: and tells a stranger whom ho designs te 
dup¥, that the wing of friendship must not monit a feather. Sir Epicure Marmion him 
self hardly realizes with more fulness his gorgeous ristona of gluttony and avarios them 
tho lmaves yall that is unreal in dissipation auceeed enc other us fuels to poor Dick: 
etter aceiter brain.""— £ihein P. Whipple 









































lv Curtosity Shop. 185. 


Trent, Frederick. Brother to Little Nell. (Ch. ii, iii, vii, viii, 
xxiii, |, Ixxiii.) See Graynrarnen (Lirrix Nexi’s), Swrve 
eter (Dick). 

Trent, Little Nell, A small and delicate child of angelic purity 
of character, and sweetness of dixposition, who lives alone with her 
grandfather, an old man possessed by a mania for gambling; his 
object being to make her rich and happy. The account of their 
wanderings, after the old man loses the last of his property, and 
is turned into the streets a beggar and an imbecile, forms the 
thread of the story. 

“Which way?" sald the child. 

‘The off man looked {rresolutely and helplessly, first at her, then to the right 
and teft, then at her again, and shook his head. Tt was plain that she was 
‘thenceforth hie guide and leader. ‘The child felt {t, but hind no doubts or mis- 
giving, and, putting her hand in his, led him gently awny. 

‘Te was the beginning of a day In June, the deep blue sky unsullied by & 
cloud, and teeming with brilliant light. ‘The streets were as yet nearly free from: 
‘passengers; the houses and shops were closed; wud the healthy air of morning 
fell Like breath from angels on the sleeping town. 

‘Tho old man and the child passed on through the glad silence, elate with hope 
‘and pleasure. They were alone together once again. Every object was bright 
‘and fresh: nothing reminded them, otherwise than by contrast, of the monot- 
‘ony and constraint they had left behind. Church towers and steeples, frowning 
‘and dark at other times, now shone in the ean; each humble nook and corner 

+ rojoleed fa ght ; and the sky, dimmed only by excesstve distance, shed ite placid 
‘snflo on evory thing beneath, 

Forth from the city, while it yet slumbered, went the two poor adventurers, 

‘wandering they knew not whither, 


Nell and her grandfather fall into the company of many strange 
people during their wanderings, among whom are Messrs. Codlin 
‘and Short, a couple of itinerant showmen, who take it into their 
heads thet the old man has stolen the child, and is endeavoring 
to elude pursuit, and that there will surely be a reward offered for 
| their: apprehension; whereupon they resolve to keep them is 
} sheir compsny until the right time comes for surrendering then» 

Mittle Nell divines the object of these men; and, fearing that hes 

grandfather, in case they should be handed over to the authori- 

ties, may be confine in some asylum, she escapes from the 
ghowmen, and shortly afterwards falls in with Mrs. Jarley, the 
proprietress of “Jarley's Wax Work,” who engages her to point 
out the figures to visitors. Whit walking, one evening, near 
the town where Mrs. Jarley is exhibiting her works, Nell and 
ber grandfather are overtaken by a severe storm, and are forced 
we 































186. Tbe Dickens Dictlonary 


to seek shelter for the night at a rondside inn called the Valiant 
Soldier, Behind a screen some men are playing at cards, and, with 
the sight of this, all the slumbering passion of the old man is aroused. 
Boing asked If he desires to join them, — 

He . . . repliod by shaking the little parse in his eager hand, and then throw: 
Ing {t down upon the table, and gathering up the cards ss a molser would clutob 
at gold. 

“Ob! ‘That indeed!” sald Teaac. “If that '* what the gentleman meant, beg 
the gentleman's pardon, Is this the gentleman’s little purse? A very pretty litte 
porse, Rather a light purse,” added Isane, throwing it Into the alr, and catehing It 
dexterously, “but enough to amuse a gentleman for half an hour or so"... 

‘The child, In ® perfect agony, drew her grandfather aside, and implored him, 
‘even then, to come away. 

Come, and we may be so happy!” «ald the chitd. 

‘We wiit be hoppy," replied the old man hastily. “Let me go, Nell. The 
‘means of happiness are on the cards and the dice. We must rise from little win- 
nings to great, There’ little to be won here; but great will come in thme, I shall 
‘but win buck my own; nnd it’s all for thee, my darling.” 

“God help us!” cried the child. “Oh! what hard fortune brought us here?” 

“ Hush 1" rejolned the old man, laying bis hand upon her mouth. “ Fortune will 
not bear chiding. We must not reproach her, or she shuns ua: I have found that 
ont." 

“Now, mister,” sald the stout man. “If you're not coming yourself, give us the 
cards; will you 








- “Sit thee down, Nell; ait thee down, wud 
Jook on. ie of good heart, {t "s all for thee, —all, every penny. I don’t tell them; 
no, not of else they wonld n’t play, dreading the chance that such a cause rust give 
me. Look at them. 8¢e what they are, and what thou art. Who doubts that we 
must win?” 

“The gentleman has thought better of It, and fs n't coming,” sald Tanne, making 
‘as though he would rise from the table, “I'm sorry the gentleman’s davated, 
Nothing venture, nothing have; but the gentleman knows best.”” 

“Why, Tam ready. You have all been alow but me," said the old man. * 
wonder who is more nnxtous to begin than 1?" 

As ho spoke, he drew a chair to the table; and, the other three closing round It 
‘At the same time, the game commenced, 

‘The child ant by, and watched {ts progress with » troubled mind, ‘Tegardiess of 
the run of luck, and mindful only of the desperate passion which had its hold upon 
der grandfather, losses and gains were to her alike. Exulting in some brief trl- 
‘umph, oF caxt down by a defeat, there ho sat #0 wild and restless, 90 foreriebly and 
an*onsely anxious, s0 terribly cager, #0 ravenous for the paltry stakes, that she 
orld have almost better borne to see him dead. And yet she was the fanocent 
taune of all this torture; and he, gambling with euch a savage thirst for gain aa the 
most insatinble gambler never fult, lind not one selfish thought, 

On the contrary, the other three, — knaves and gamesters by thelr trade,—while 
Intent upon thelr game, were yet as cool and quiet as If every rirtue had bean eon: 
‘wed in thelr breasts... 

‘The storm had raged for fall three hours; the lightning had grown fainter ané 
Uhunder, from seeming to roll and break above thelr heads, had 
‘ay into e deep, hoarse distance; and still the game went ov, ave 
ill Ye anxious child was quite forgotten. 
































Olv Cuctostty Sdop 187 


‘The old man plays until their little purse is exhausted, and nothing 
talefe with vhs which to pay for their entertainment. In this strait, Nell, 
after much hesitation, and fearful that her grandfather will observe 
ber, takes from her dress a small gold-piece which she has kept con 
cealed there, in anticipation of some great emergency, and pays the 
reckoning, hiding the change which she receives, before rejoining her 
grandfather. Shortly afterwards she retires for the night. 


At last, sleep gradually stole upon bor,—a broken, fitful sleep, troubled by 
‘reams of fulling from high towers, and waking with a start and In great terror. 
A.deepor slumber followed this, and then,—what! ‘That figure {a the room! 

A figure was there. Yes; she had drawn up the Ullnd to adit the light when it 
should be dawn, and thore, between the fovt of the bed and the dark casement, it 
eroushed and slunk along, groping Its way with nolscless hands, and stealing round 
Bares: ‘She had no voice to ery for help, no power to move, bat lay still, watch 

‘On it came, on, silently and stealthily, to tho bed’s head; the breath 0 near 
her pitlow, that abe shrunk back into it, lest those wandering hands should light 
-apon her fico. ‘Back again it stole to the window, then turned Its head towards 
ber. 


‘The dark form was a mere blot upon the lighter darkness of the room; bat she 
saw the turning of the hend, and felt and knew how the eyes looked, nnd the ears 
Ustened. ‘There it remained, motionless as she. At length, still keeping the fon 
towards her, it busied its hands {n something, and she heard the chink of money. 

‘Then on it came again, ellent and stealthy as before, and, replacing the garmonts 
‘It had taken from the bedside, dropped upon ite hands and knees, and crawled 
‘away. How slowly it seemed to move now that she could hear, but uot seo ity 
creeping along the floor! It reached the door at Inst, and stood upon ita feet. ‘The 
steps crenked beneath {ts noiseless trend, and it was gone. 

‘The first i:mpulee of the child was to fly from the terror of belng by herself in 
int room, to hare somebody by, not to bo alone; and then her power of 
Vege be restored. With no consciousness of having moved, she guined 


ey ‘was the dreadful shadow, pausing st the bottom of the steps. 

‘She could not pass it: she might have done #0, perhmps, in the darknoss, with- 
‘out being seized; but her blood curdled at the thought. ‘The figure stood quite sti:i, 
und 40 did she; not boldly, but of necessity; for golng buck Into the roor was 
handly tess terrible than going on. 

‘The rain beat fast and furiously without, aud ran down in plashing streams from 

he thatched roof. Some summer insect, with no eecape into the air, flow blindly to 

ind fro, bexting ite body against the walls and ceiling, and filing the silent place 
with murmurs. The figure moved again. The child involuntarily did the same, 
‘Once in her grandfather's room, ste would be safe. 

‘Teerept along the parsnge until it camo to the very door she Jonged +0 ardently 
fo tench. ‘The child. in the agony of being so near, had almost darted forward 
with the design of Lursting tnto the room, and closing it behind her, when the 
figure stopped ngain. 

‘Th idea flashed suddenly upon her,— what if it entered there wnd had a design 
‘upon the old man's life! She turned falot and sick. It did. It wont in. ‘There 
‘was alight inside. The figure was now within the chamber, and she, still dumb, ~ 

dumb, and elmost senseless, -- stood looking on. 








188 The Dickens M'ctlonarp. 


‘The door was partly open, Not knowing wlint she meant to do, but meaning to 
Preserve him, or be killed hervelf, she staggernd forward and looked In. 

‘What sight was that which met her view t 

‘The bed had not been Iain on, but was smooth and empty; and at a table ant 
the old man himvelf. the only living creature there, —his white face pinched and 
sharpened by the greediness which made hit eyes unnaturally bright, —countine 
the money of which his hands had robbed hor. 


Shocked beyond measure by the sight, the child returns to her room; 
bat, during the night, she steals again to her grandfather's side, and 
finds him asleep. 


‘She had no fear ax she looked upon his slumbering features; but she had a deep 
and weighty sorrow, and It found lis relief In tears. 

“God blows tit!” sald the child, #tooping oftty to kiss his placid sheck. 1 
‘ee too well now, that they would indeed part us if they found us ont, apd ¢hut 
him up from the light of the sun and aky. He has only me to lelp him, fiod bless 
vus both 1" 

Lighting her candle, she retreated ns silently as whe had come, and, grining her 
‘own room once more, sat up during the remaluaer of that long, long, miserable 
night, 

‘At last the day turned her waning candle pale; and she fell asleep. She was 
quickly roused by the girl who had shown her up to bed, and, as soon as sho was 
dressed, prepared to go down to her grandfather, ut first she searched her 
pocket, and found that her money was all gone: not a sixpence remained. 

‘The old man was ready, and in x fow aeconds they were on thelr road. The ehild 
thought he rather avoided her eye, and appeared to expect that #he would tell bim 
Of her loss. She felt she must do that, or he might suspect the truth, 

Grandfather," she sald in a tremulous rolce, after they had walked about & 
mille in silence, ‘do you think they nre honest people nt the house youder?* 

“Why?” returned the old man, trembling. “DoT think them honest yes 
they played honostly.” 

“1 tell you why I ask,” rejoined Nell. “T lost some money last night, ontof 
my bedroom, Iam sure. Unless It was taken by somebody in Jest, —only in Jest, 
dear grandfather, which would make me laugh heartily if Teould but know it." — 

“Who would take money In Jost?” returned the old man fn a hurried manner. 
se who take money take It to keep. Don’t talk of Jest.” 

‘hen it was stolen ont of my room, dear,” sald the child, whoxo last hope was 
Jestroyed by the manner of this reply. 


By tears and entreaties, Nell succeeds in leading her grandfather 
away from the old temptation, which has again beset him, and forms 
fresh hopes of saving him; but these are soon dissipated. Uxseon, 
herself, she discovers him in company with the same gamblers, and 
witnesses their cunning endeavors to induce him to rob Mrs. Jarley 
in order to obtain the means of winning back all he had lost, and 
perhaps, of socuring still greater gains. 

















‘She went back to her own room, and tried to prepare hervelf for bed, But who 
sould sloep—sloep! who could ie passlvely down — distracted by rush terrors? 
They came upon her more and more strongly yet, He)f-undressod, and with ber 
























Olv Curlosity Sop. 189 


‘hair in wild disorder, she flew to the old man’s bedside, clasped him by the wrist, 

‘and roused him from his sloop. 

Pear tebe xt, starflng ep 1h Ded, nd cing bis oe Wags Ber ager 
fee. 

“Thave had a dreadful dream.” said the child, with an energy that nothing bat 
ech terrors could hare inspired, —*a drendful, horrible dream? X have had tt 
nce before. It isa dream of gray-haired men like you, in darkened rooms, by 
aight, robbing sleepers of thelr gold. Up, up!” The old man shook In every 
Joint, and folded his hands like one who prays. 

“Not to mo." eald the child,—‘‘not to me; to Hearon, to save us from 
auch deods! This dream 1 too real. T cannot sleep; F eannot stay here; 1 
‘tannot leave you alone under the roof where such dreams come. Up! We must 
ty.” 

‘He looked at her as if she were a spirit.—she might have been for all the Iook 
‘of earth she hind, —and trembled more and more, 

“There Is no time to lose: I will not lose one minute,” sald the child. “ Up! 
and away with me.” 

4 To-night ?!* murmured the old man, 

“Yes. tonight,” replied the child. “To-morrow night will be too late. ‘The 
dream will have come again. Nothing but flight can save us. Up!" 

‘The old man rose from hin bed, his forehead bedewod with the cold sweat of 
fear, and, bending before the child as If she had been nn angel messenger sent 
to lend him where she would, made ready to follow her. Sho took him by the 
hand, and led hilm on. Ax they passed the door of the room he had proposed to 
rob, she shuddered. and looked up nto his fice. What a white fice wns that! and 
with what a look did he moet hers! 

Sho took him to her own chamber, and still holding him by the hand, ns if she 
feared to lose him for an instant, gathered together the little stock she had. and 
hang her basket on her arm. The old man took his wallet from her hands, and 
strapped It on his shoulders, — his staff, too, she had brought away,—and then she 
ted him forth. 


‘They suffer much privation after this, and the old man complains 
piteously of hunger and fatigue; bat the child trudges on, with leas 
and less of hope and strongth, indeed, but with an undiminished reso- 
Tution to lead her sacred charge somewhere — anywhere, indeed — 
away from guilt and shame. At last they encounter Mr. Marton, a 
poor but kind-hearted schoolmaster, whom they had met once before. 
He is travelling on foot to a distant village, where he has been ap- 
pointed clerk and teacher; and, on learning from Little Nell the full 
story of her trials and sufferings and wanderings, asks her and her 
grandfather to accompany him, promising to use his best endeavors 
to find them some humble occupation by which they can subsist. 
aittle Nell gladly embraces his offer; and they journey on together. 
Arrived at the village, their kind friend exerts himself suecessfally 
In their behalf, procures them a pleasant home and a light employ~ 
ment in connection with the parish church, which brings them money 
mough to live on. But the quiet and happy life they begin to lead 














190 The Wickens Wictlonary. 


is destined to be of short duration. Long exposure and suffering 
have been too much for the child's delicate onganization, and her 
health fails. Slowly, but surely, the end draws on, and at last che 
dies. 


‘They had read and talked to her in the earlier portion of the night; but, as 
the hours crept on, she unk to sleep. ‘They could tell, by what she faintly 
rttered in her dreams, that they wore of her Jonrneyings with the old man: they 
were of no painful soenes, but of people who had helped und used them kindly; 
for ahe often said, “God bless you!” with great fervor. Waking. she never 
wandered In her mind but once; and that was of beautiful music whieh ebe 
said wns in the rir, God knows, Tt may hare beo 

Opening her eyes, at last, from avery quiet sleep, she begged that they would 
kiss her ono» again. ‘That dono, sho turned to the old man with a lovely smile 
‘upon her face, —such. they said, ns they had never seen, and never could forget, 
and clung with both her arms about his neck. They did not know that she 
was dead at frst, 

‘She had spoken very often of the two slaters, who, she snld, were Iike dear 
friends to her, She wished they could be told how much she thought about 
them, and how she had watched them as they walked together by the river-sido 
atnight, She would like toxee poor Kit she had often sald of Inte. She withed 
there was somebody to take her love to Kit. And even then she never thought 
or spoke about him, bat with something of her old, clear, morry Laugh. 

For the rest, she had neyer murmured or complained, but with quiet mind, 
aud manner quite unaltered,—aave that she every day became more earnest 
and more grateful to thom, —faded like the light upon a summer's evening. 


(Ch. i-vi, ix-xii, xvexix, xxiv-xxxii, xlii-elvi, lii-lv, lexi, Lxxii.) 
hee Grawpratunn, Lrrree Nev's. 

“Amid the wolftch mallsnity of Qailp, the augared meanness of Tras, the Tearing 
eonvivlality of Swiveller, amid soones of selfstiness and shame, of passion and erime, 
this deticato creation moves alons, artnilied, purifed, pursuing the good tn the almmple 
earnesttiens of a pare hoart, gliding to the tomb as to a #weet sleep, and leaving ta 
‘every place that her prosence beautifios tho marks of celestial footprints. Korrows 
such as hers, over Which #0 fine a sentiment sleds its consecrations, have been well ald 
to Dell! bartered for tho garishness of Joys "for they win ws noftly from le, and Mt us to 
lo mmlting." "=. P. Whipple. 

Trotters. See Harnta Mr. 

Vuffin. A showman; proprictor of a giant, and of a littl» lady 
without legs or arms. (Ch. xix.) 

Wackles, Miss Jane, Youngest daughter of Mrs. Wackles, 
and instructor in the art of needlework, marking, and eamplery, in 
the “ Ladies’ Seminary” presided over by her mother. (Ch, viii.) 

Wackles, Miss Melissa. Teacher of English grammar, com- 
position, geography, and the use of the damb-bells, in her mother’s 
seminary for young Indies. She is the eldest daughter, and verges 
on the autumoal, having seen thirty-five summers, or thereabouts, 
(Ch. vi 























Olv Curlosity Spop. 191 


Wackles, Miss Sophy. A fresh, good-humored, buxom girl 
of twenty; Mrs, Wackles's second danghter, and teacher of writ- 
ing, arithmetic, dancing, and general fascination in the “ Ladies" 

." An unsuccessful attempt is made to inveigle Swiveller 
into a match with Miss Sophy. (Ch. viii.) 

Wackles, Mrs. Proprietor of a very small day-school for young 
ladies, at Chelsea; an excellent but rather venomous old lady of 
threessore, who takes special charge of the corporal punishment 
fasting, and other tortures and terrors of the establishment. (Ch. 
viii.) 

West, Dame. The grandmother of a favorite pupil of Mr. Mar 
ton’s, the schoolmaster. (Ch. xxv.) 

Whisker. A pony belonging to Mr. Garland, obstinate, independ 
‘ent, and freakish, but “a very good fellow, if you know how to 
ee him.” (Ch, xiv, xx, xxii, xxxviii, xl, Ivii, Ixi, Ixy, Lxviii, 


Saar iartot: See Sweet WILLIAM. 
‘Mr, A notary; short, chubby, fresh-colored, brisk, 
pela (Ch. xiv, xx, xxxviii, xl, xli, Lei, Ixiil, Ixy, Levi, 


PRINCIPAL INCIDENTS. 


Cuarres f. Little Nell Inquires the way of Master Humphrey; he goes home with 
her to the O14 Curlosity Shop, and meets ber grandfather: retarn of Kit from his errands 
Humphrey, going out, is sarprised that the old man te going, leaving Little Nell 
slone.—I1, Returning, drawn by curionity, n few days after, Master Humphrey invernwpts 
anangry controversy between tho old man and his grandson; Fred Trent calls in his 
lend Mr, Swiveller, who gives some pacific advions Little Nell retarms,— THT. She ts 
silowed by Quilp; the old man keops his secret close. —IV. Mra Quilp and her mother, 
‘discussing with some nelgbbors the character of Mr. aro interrupted by the entrance 
‘of that gentleman Quilp's kind treatment of his wi Me. Quilp goes to his wharf, 
‘where be quarrels with bis boy: Sell comes to hii there with « letter.— VI. Quilp takes 
‘Noll torhis home on Tower Ill, where he forces Mra Quilp to question the child for her 
kewndfather's secret, while be listens behind the door, —VHL. ¥red Trent, supposing ble 
randfathee to be very rich, conspires with Dick Swiveller to get possession of bis property: 
tug the maeriage of Little Nell to the latter gentleman, involving the probable Aisappoint> 
‘ment of the matrimonial expectations of Mies Sophy Wackles — VIII, Mr, Swiveller dines 
Lis tHlond ak the expense of eloaing another strect to his passage; Mise Sophy Wacklos 
TNE Gif Mr. Chogps against 3r. Swiveller, and losos Mr. Swivellee.—IX. Nelly pleads 
with her grandfathee to give up thete way of living, an¢ become beggary and be happy 
‘Quip enters, anperoelved, and hears their conversition; Qatlp informe the old man that 
seas diecovered tho secret o° his gambling. and the old man denies that bo ever played 
he his own sake, but always for Nelly’s good; Quilp throws the old mats snsplolons npon 
Kit —X. Kit, after watching the house until midnight, goes home, aud Ie soon followed 














192 Ede Dickens Mictlonary. 


‘by Nelly, wh Lnforms tlm of the {llness of her grandfather, and that be diame Kit him 
Welf er the canee.—XL Quip, accompanied by Sampwon Brass, takes possession of the 
‘old man’s property; Kit has s secret toterview with Little Nell.—X11. The old man re 
‘torers, and is wamod by Quilp to leave the house; ho and Nell leave aceratly, not know 
tng whero they shell ¢o.—XILL. Mr. Qailp, operag the door to his wifo, falls tnto the 
hands of Mr. Richard Swiveller: Mr. Swriveller’s astonishment at what has happened; 
Kit Mghis with Quiip's boy for the poxsesion of Nelly'a bird, and wins. — XIV, Kit minds 
‘Abe hore of Mr, and Mes. Garland, while thelr#on, Mr, Abel, is boing articled to Mr. With- 
‘enilen, and gets overpald for the Job.—X¥. Nally and her grandfather eseape from London 
and ate Defrionded by m cottager's fhmlly.—XVL They encounter Mevare. Colin and 
Short, itinerant showmen, in tho graveyard. —XVII. Eittlo Xvil's interview with the aged 
‘widow of a young husband; Codlin and Short lavite Nell and hor grandfather to go with 
‘them to the races; thay oncounter the stflt-walkers.— XVIII. Arrived at the Jolly Sand~ 
Doys, they are Jolned by other showmen, and have supper.— XIX. Codlin makes warm 
professions of friendship. and both he and Short Keep close watch of the fugitives; Nelly 
‘and her grandfather eseape from thelr companiona —XX. Kit goes to work out the old 
tixpence paid him ty Mr. Garland.—XXI. He jsengaged by Mr. Garland for sx pounds a 
year; Qallp and Mr. Swiveller pursue their inquiries for the fugitives at the house of Mrx. 
‘Nubblesi the dwarf draws from Mr, Swiveller the details of the scheme he has formed 
‘with Fred ‘Trent, and promites his assletance, —XXIf. Kit becomes an inmate of Abel 
Cottage, XXL. Mr. Richard Swiveller bemoans his orphan-state, and Ix adopted by Me, 
Qultps Quip and Fred Trent, for different reasons, anite in the scheme for entrapping 
Nelly toto o marriage with Dick Swiveller.—XXIV. Escaped from tho showmen, Nell 
‘and ber grandfithor find thelr way to a qulet village, whore they aro kindly recetred by 
the schoolmaster. —XXV. Nell spends the morning {n the sehoolroom: the schoolmnster 
takes Nell to the sick-room of his favorito pupil, tittle Hinrry; Marry" death.—XX¥E. 
After leaving the schoolmaster, Nelly and the old man encounter Ste. Jacley taking ten In 
waravan she gives them some supper, and carries them on thelr way, =—XXVIT. Mts 
Jarles explains hor business to the child, end, nding they are berging thelr living, offers 
her cinployment, which she gladly aecopts; the child is terrified by the sight of Qallp, but, 
Juckily, oscapos being ween by him. —XXVINL, Mr, Slum recelwes an order from Mre Jar 
ley; Neli learns the history of Mra Jurley's wax Aqures. —XXIX. Nett and her erand- 
hier, wandering through the flelds, are caught nw storm, and take refuge In the Valiant 
Soldier; the old man becomes excited at the sight of gambling, secures tho child's purse, 
plays, and loses XXX. Tho old man robs Nell of the little she has teft,— XXXL. She 
{ells him of the robbery, tn the hope that he will confess its he bids her keep slient about 
It} Miss Monfiathers receives Nell with dignity’: she lecvures Miss Edwards for her impro- 
priety in dotng Nell a kindness, and refuses hor patronago to Mrs. Jatley’s exhibition. — 
XXXIL Tho old man exnbles away alt Nelly's enruings: Mrs. Farley's schemes for make 
Ing her exhibition more popular. —XXXIEE. Saily Tras reproves her brother for taking a 
clerk: he Justidies It as the request of his best client, Me. Quilp: Quilp Introduces Me, 
‘Bwivotler, who fe Installed aa Sampeon Tiraxs's clork.— XXXIV. Dick defines his posltion, 
‘and tells how ho came In it: he lets the lodyings to the Single Geatleman.—XXX¥. Tho 
ew lodgor remains singularly silent for a long timo; Sampron Hiraas refreshes Mr. Swivel 
Jer's nicmory in regard to the statement made by the Single Gentleman, who fs at length 
aroused, and oxpresers bin doslres to Mr. Richard &wivelior.—XXXVI. Mr. Swivellor 
Ande favor in th eyes of Bally Brass: he witnesses the feeding of the small servant. — 
XXXVI. The Single Gentioman shows an extraontinary Interest in Punch shows; he 
tertains Moma, Codlin and Short, and makes particular inquiries tn regard to Lite Nell 
‘and her grandfather.-—XXXVILL. Kit's progress in hie new place; he moots the stranger 
entleman at Mr. Withenten's, who questions bien eloxely about the old man and the child, 




































and enjoins silence theroupony Dick Swivetler finds Kit can keep w secret. —XXXIK, 
flow Kitand his mother, and Barbara and her mother. enJoyed thelr halfbotiday. — Xe 
Kit receives with some surprise the Intelligence that the strange gentteman dexines te take 
tim Into hie service, and declines to leave Mr. Garland; the Hingle Gentlenns tnforms Rit 
that Nel! and the old man have been found; Kit deelines his proporal to teke bin with: 





= 





Olu Curlosity Sdo; 





198 


tose Quilp also: the Single Gentleman and Mrs. Nubbies start on thelr Journey. —XLM. 
‘Uttle Noll overhears the gamblers tempting her grandfather to rob Mra Jarley, until he 
‘consents; sheets th's knowledge before him us a torrible dream whe has tad, and bids tan 
Ay with her from place where such dreams come. — XILUT. Tho fugitives are befriended 
land carried on their way by some rough boatmen.—XLIV. Lost in the busy streets of a 
manufaesuring town, they are taken by « poor workman to foundry, whoro they remit. 
Uirongh the niyht, in the warmth of the furnucea — XLV. They wander on in wearch ot 
the open eonntey, Nell growing very weak from hunger and fatigue; she ts about to bee 
0 4 traveller on the road, when she recognizes in tit thelr old friend the schoolmaster, 
‘snd falls sonseloss at bis feet. — XLVI, The schoolmaster carries her to a nelghboring Ina, 
share abe \* restored ; he informs them of his change of fortune, and they accompany hime 
to his new home. — XLVIT, The Single Gentleman and Mrs Nubbies reach Mrs. Jarley's, 
to find that lady Just married to George, and to learn that the child and her grandpsther 
Gisappeared a weck before, and all attempts to Gnd them have ulled—XLVIIL Qutip's 
Appearance at the Inn to which the Single Gentleman goes,and how he camo to be thore.— 
XLLX, Qullp recurs home, aod interrupts the arrangements My. Sampson Brass and Mrs. 
Bolwin are making for the recovery of his body, supposing him drowned,—L- Quilp 
‘estabilsbes himself as s Jolly bachelor in the counting-house on his wharf; he pays a visit 
to Mr. Swiveller, whom he finds discontolate at the marriage of Sophy Wacklon to bis 
sival, Cheggss the dwarf learns trom Dick that his friend Fred Trent and the Staxle Gentle 
‘man have met, with no good result; Mrs. Quilp Importunes her harbend to retam home, 
Dut he drives her away.—LI. Quilp has an interview with Miss Brass's small servant; 
Quilp informs Sampson and Sally Trae that he wants Kit put out of the way, and they 
agres to do ft, = LIL. The sohoolmaster arranges that Nell and hor grandfather stilt have 
the care of the church, and they take possossion of thelr new homes; thelrkind reoeption 
iy the clergyman and the bachelor; the bachelor introduces the schoolmaster to his new 
pupils. LILI. Nell's talk with the old sexton. —LIV., L¥. The sexton's frapatience with 
ld Davids Xeliy's health falls, and her friends grow anxlous about bers—LVL Mts 
Bwiveller goes into mourning on the oceasion of the marriage of Misa Sophy Wacklea; 
Mr. Chuckstor complains to Mr. Swiveller that his merits are not appreoiated: Sampson 
Brass calls Kit tato his office, and bogins to put tls plot against him Into execution, —LVIT. 
Progress of the ploty Dick Swivollor discovers the small servant eavesdropping: he 
teaches her to play eribbage, and bestows upon her tho title of Marchionest. —LVIIT. He 
earns from ier how aio is kept by Miss Saily: Mr. Swiveller relieves his melancholy by 
ttle Mate-playing; Miss Sally roports to Dick that some small thetts have occurred in the 
‘oftee; she suspects Kit, whom her brother stoutly defends. LIX. Consummation of the 
plot, and urreat of Kit for larceny. — LX. Kit begs to bo taken to Mr. Witherden's office 
‘om the Way they enoounter Qailp. who bestows his blessing on the party; astontatment 
of the Garlands and Mr. Withenden at the charge against Kit. —LXI. Kit In prison 
‘Visited by his mother and Barbara's mother; Mr. Swiveller shows his aymputhy {1 a mug 
of bear. —LXET, Sampuon Iirans visita Qailp in his den pleasant behavior of the facetious 
dwarf; he demands the discharye of Mr. Swiveller. —LXUII. ‘Trial and conviction of Kit; 
Mr, Swivellor gets hie dlacharge.—LXIV. Mr, Swivoller awakes from © delirious «ickness 
Jofind himself {n tho care of the Marchioness; she informs him how ahe came there, and 
ives him the particulars of his sicknoss; tho Murchioness also relates to Dick the details 
‘of the plot against Kit. which she overheard through the key-hole; she gues in se-neh of 
Mr, Abel Garland. —LXY, Sho finds him, and brings him to Dick"s lodgings, where she 
‘Sepenita the atory to him.—LXVL ‘The Garlands and thelr friends tako Mr. Swiveller and 
the Macehioness under thoir protection: they attempt to draw a confession fram Sally 
Bram, but the conference Is interrupted by Sampson, who confesses the whole conspiracy t 
‘Dick Swivellor Inherite a fortune, which 1# amaller than it might have been, — LXVIL 
Mire. Quilp carries to hor husband a letter from Sally Bras, informing hse of the discovery 
‘of thelr schemes, and warning him of his danger; ho drivos his wife away, and groping 
An the darkness to eacape the officers, who are already on hls track, he falls Into the river, 
‘snd ls drowned. —LXVIIL, Kits released, wnd weloomed home by hls friends} Mr. Garland 
‘otiles him to prepare for  joarnoy to moet Nell and her grandfather; Kit hax am undore 
ding with Barbara: the Single Gentleman, Mr. Garland, and Kit start on thetr Journey ; 
(Slugle Gentloman relates his story to Mr. Garland. —LXX They arrive mt te tows 
a 











194 Sde Mickens Mictlonary. 


after midnight; the old sexton is disturbed; Kit discovers tha old man brooding over the 
fire,—LXXL The old man knows neither Kit nor his brother; Kelly ts dead.—LXXIL 
Her barial ts kept a secret from her grandfather; the old man is found dead on the child's 
rave. —LXXIII. Sampeon Brass, after serving out his sentence, joins his sister in the 
wretched neighborhood of St. Giles's; Mra. Quilp marries again and lives happily; Mr. 
Abel Garland becomes the head of a family; Mr. Swiveller bestows upon the small servant 
the name of Sophronia Sphynx, educates, and finally marries her; sad end of Frederick 
‘reat; the Single Gentleman rewards all who befriended his brother; the family history 
of Kit end Berbera. 








Barnaby Rudge. 


A TALE OF THE RIOTS OF ‘EIGHTY. 





“ Barxany Ropox”—which has been called “the most highly wronght, ear 
‘nest, and powerful” of all Dickens's works — is an historical novel, based upon 
the Lord George Gordon, or London Protestant, rots of 1780. Tt first appeared 
tm 1841, in * Master Humphbrey"s Clock ;” and in 1849 It was published apart from 
the machinery of that serial miscellany. The plan of it was formed, and possl- 
tly some part of it was written, before tho “Pickwick Papers” were com: 
menced (1630). Itwas announced, under the name of “Gabriel Vardon” (see 
‘VARDEN, GABRIEL, p. 201), a4 a new novel by the author of “ Sketchos by Boz; 
and ft continued to be so advertised until the beginning of 1837, when Macrone 
(Mr. Dickens's publisher) fulled in business, and the advertisement was withdrawn; 
‘while the story was laid side to be taken up and completed at a later day. 

In this tale, Dickens inculeates the duty of tolerance, In his Preface he re- 
wwarks,—~ 

“It is unnecessary to say that those shameful tamults, while they reflect indelible 
‘Magrace span the time In which they occurred, and all who bad act or part In them, teach 
‘agoed lesson. That what we falsely call a religious cry ts ensily raised by men who have 
‘bo religion, and who in thelr dally practice set at nought the commonest principles of 
‘Fight and wrong; that it ls begotten of Intolerance and persecution; that it ts senseless, 
besotted, inveterate, and unmerciful, i history teaches us: but perhaps we do not 
‘now It In our hearts too well to profit by even eo humble and familiar am example as 
he * No Popery * riots of seventeen handred and eighty.” 








‘The story was also meant to be an argument against capital punishment, of 
which tho author had an Intense abhorrenoo. Formerly, fn England, death was 
the ordinary punlshmont for every description of felony; and, although at the 
‘present day It Is actually intilcted only in case of treason oF murder, until towards 
the close of the reign of George IIT, the criminal code, with almost Draconian 
‘Justice, prescribed or Implied that penalty for more than & hundred and sixty 


ifunses, rrany of them of a comparatively venial character. 
105 





196 Ede Dickens Wictlonarp. 


CHARACTERS INTRODUCED. 


Akerman, Mr. Head jailer at Newgate. (Ch. Ixiv, lexvi ) | 

Black Lion, The. Landlord of a Lindon inn of the same aame; 
so called because he had instructed the artist who painted bis 
sign to convey into the features of the lordly brate whose effigy it 
bore, as near a counterpart of his own face as his skill could com 
pass and devise, He is such a swigger of beer, that most of his 
faculties have been utterly drowned and washed away, except the 
‘one great faculty of sleep, which he retains in surprising perfection. 
(Ch. xxi.) 

Chester, Mr., afterwards Sir John. An clegant and punctili- 
ously polite, but thoroughly heartless and unprincipled gentleman ; 
intended as a portrait of Lord Chesterfield (Philip Dormer Stan- 
hope), who was equally celebrated for his polished grace of man- 
ner, his loose morality, and his love of intrigue. Mr. Chester at- 
tempts, but unsuccessfully, to break off the match between his son 
Edward and Miss Emma Haredale, both because the girl is poor, 
and because he is bent on an alliance which will add to his own 
wealth and importance. (Ch. x-xii, xiv, xv, xxiii, xxiv, xxvi- 
rrey), Hue. 

Chester, Edward. His son; in love with and finally married to 
Miss Emma Haredale. (Ch. i, ii, y, vi, xiv, xv, xix, xxix, xxii, 
Ixvii, Ixxi, Lxxii, Lexix, Ixxxii.) 

Cobb, Tom. General chandler and post-ofllee keeper; a crony of 
old Willet’s, and a frequent visitor at the Maypole Inn. (Ch. i, 
xxx, xxxill, liv.) 

Conway, General. A member of parliament, and an opponent 
of Lord George Gordon. [Not a fictitious character.] (Ch. 
xhx.) 

Daisy, Solomon, Parish clerk and bell-ringer of Chigwell; « 
little man, with litdle round, black, shining eyes like beads, and 
studded all down his rusty black coat, and bis long flapped waist- 
coat, with queer little buttons, like nothing except his eyes, but se 
like thom, that he seems all eyes from head to foot. (Ch. i-iii, xt 
xxx, xxxili, liv, lv.) 

Dennis, Ned. Ringleader of the Gordon rioters. slaving fow 








Barnaby Rudge. 197 


meny been a hangman, and therefore entertaining « profound re- 
pect for the Inw, he desires that every thing should be done in a 
constitutional way. Yet, as an adept in the art of “ working peo- 
ple off,” he thinks it the better and neater method to hang every- 
body who stands in the way of the rioters; and he is frequently dis- 
gusted by the refusal of his fellow-insurgents to adopt his sugges 
tion, When the riot is at last suppressed, and Dennis is arrested, 
and condemned to death, he suddenly discovers that the satisfaction 
which he has experienced for so many years in executing the capi- 
tal sentence upon his fellow-mortals was, in all probability, not 
shared by the subjects of his skill; and he shrinks in the most ab- 
ject foar from his fate. 


“No reprieve, no reprieve! Nobody comes near us. There's only the night 
Jeft now!” moaned Dennis filntly,as he wrung his bands. “Do you think 
theyll repriove me in the night, brother? I've known reprieves come in the 
night, afore now. L've known ‘em come ms late ax five, ax, and seven o'clock 
Inthe morning. Don’t you think there sn good chances yet; don’t you? Say 
youdo.- Say you do, young man,” whined the miserable creature, with an Line 
ploring gesture towards Barnaby, “ or I shall go mad!” 

“Better be mad than sane here,” said Hugh. * Go mad)” 

# Bat tell me what you think, Somebody tell me what he thinks!” orfed the 
wretahod object,—so mean and wretched and despicable, that even Pity's self 
might have turned away at sight of auch a belng in the likeness of a man. 
“Isn't there » chance for me? is n’t there a good chance for me? In n't it 
Uikely they may be doing this to frighten me? Don't you think it is? Ont” 
he almost alirieked as ho wrung his hands, “ won't anybody give me cornfort 2” 

You onght to be the best, Instead of the worst,” suid Hugh, stopping before 
him. “Ha, ha, ha! Seo the hangman when it comos home to hira!” 

You don’t know what it Is," cried Dennis, actually writhing as he spoke: 
“Ido, That I should come to be worked offt— I, 1,—that {should come!” 

“And why not?" said Hugh, as he thruat back his matted hair to get a bet- 
ter view of his lato associate. * How often, before 1 kuew your trade, did 
Wear you talking of this as if {t was a treat!” 

“TF aln’t unconsistent!" screamed the miserable creature. “I'd talk #0 
again, if Iwas hangman. Some other man has got my old opinions at this 
minute. ‘That makes It worse. Somebody %s longing to work ie off, I know 
by myrelf that vomebody must bo.” 

*+ He 1 soon have his longing, 
that, and be quiet.” 


(Gh. xxxvi-xl, xliv, xlix, 1, lif-liv, lix, Ix, Ixiii-lxv, Isix-Ixxd, 
Ixsiv-Ixxvii.) 
Gashford, Mr. Lord George Gordon's secretary; a tall, bony, 
high-shouldered, and angular man. 


‘His dross, in imitation of his superior, was demure and staid in the extreme; 
Ma manner formal and constrained, ‘This gentleman had an overhanging brow, 
srest hands and feet and care. and a vair of eyes ‘hat seemed to have made as 

te 











aid Hugh, resuming his walk. " Think of 





198 Ebe Michens Mictlonarp, 


‘unnatural rotreat Into his bend, and to have dug themselves a otve to hide 1a, 
‘His manner was amooth and humble, but very ly and alloking. He wore the 
‘aspect of a man that was always tying In walt for something that wouldn 't come 
‘to pass; but he looked patient (very patient), and fuwned like » spaniel dog. 

(Ch. xxxv-xxxviii, xliii, xliv, xlviii-y, Ii, lili, Lext, Ixxxii.) 

Gilbert, Mark. One of the “Prentice Knights, or United Ball- 
Dogs,” a secret society formed by the apprentices of London for 
the purpose of resisting the tyranny of thelr master. On the 
occasion of Mark’s admission to this onganization, he is thus 
described : — 

“Age nineteen, Bound to Thomas Carson, hoster, Golden Fieees, Aldgate, 
Loves Curson’s daughter. Cannot say that Curzon's daughteg lores ‘him. 
Should think it probable, Curzon pulled his ears last Tucsday w 

(Ch. viii, xxix.) 

Gordon, Colonel, Member of parliament, and an opponent of 
his kinsman Lord George Gordon. (Ch. xlix.) 

Gordon, Lord George, Third son of Cosmo George, third duke 
of Gordon; born Sept. 19, 1750; noted as the chief instigator 
of the Protestant or “No Popery" riots, which took place in 
London in 1780, and were a resalt of the passage of a bill by par 
liament relieving Roman Catholics from certain disabilities and 
penalties. In these riots (which lasted for several days) many 
Roman-Catholic churches were destroyed, as were also Newgate 
Prison, the residence of Lord Chief Justice Mansfield, and numer- 
‘ous other private dwellings. Lord George was arrested on acharge 
of high treason, and was committed to the Tower; but, the offence 
not having been proved, he was acquitted, He died Nov. 1, 1793. 
Dickens's descriptions of this misguided man, and of the dreadful 
scenes in which he was the chief actor, are not only graphie and 
vigorous, but faithful to the facts of history. (Ch. xxxv-xxxvil, 
xlili, xlvill-, Ili, Lxxili, Ixxxii.) 

Green, Tom. A soldier. (Ch. Iviii-) 

Grip. A raven; the constant companion of Barnaby Rudge; avery 
Imowing bird, supposed to be a hundred and twenty years old, or 
thereabouts. 

‘The widow triod to make tight of Barnaby’s remark, and endeavored to divert 
ds attention to some new subject, —too ensy a task at all times, as «he knew, 
His supper done, Barnaby, regardless of her entreaties, stretched himselfou the 
mat before the fire (Grip perched upon his leg), and divided his thne between 
dozing in the grateful warmth, and endeavoring (as it presently appeared) ta 
recall a new accomplishment he had been atadying all day. 


A Jong and profound silence ensued, broken only by ome change of poritlon 
‘an the part of Barnaby, whose eyes were still wide open, and uten‘ly fixed upow 





Barnaby Ruvge. 199 


‘the fire, or by an effort of recollection on the part of Grip, who would ory in @ 
Jow volce from time to time, * Polly, put the ket” — and there stop short, forget 
ting the remainder, and go off in a doze again. 

After a long interval, Barnaby's breathing grew more deep and regutar, and 
his eyes were closed. But even then the unquiet «pirit of tho raven interposed. 
Polly, put tho ket,” — cried Grip; and his master was broad awake agsin. 

Atlength he slept soundly; and the bird, with his bill sunk upon his breast, 
‘Wis breast itself puffed out into a comfortable alderman-tike fort, and his bright 
‘eye growing smaller and smaller, really seemed to be subsiding Into m staty of 
‘repose. Now and then he muttered in asepulchral vo! kot? = 
‘Wut very drowslly, and more Ike a drunken man th 

‘The widow, scarcely venturing to breathe, rose from her seat, The man 
gilded from the closet, and extinguished the candle. 

“—tle on,” cried Grip, suddenly struck with an idea, and vory much excited. 
“tle on, Hurrah! Yolly, put the ket-tle on: we all have tea. Yolly, putthe 
ket-tleon: we'll all havetea, Harrah, hurrah, harrah! I?m adevil, I'ma devit 
I'm a kettle on, Keop up your spirits. Never say die, Bow wow wow? 
I’m & devil, I'm a kettle, I’m o,—Polly, put the kettle on: we'll all have 
tea” 

‘They stood rooted to the ground, as though It had been ® volce from the 





grave. 
‘But ren this failed to awaken the sleeper. He turned over towards the fire; 
‘his arm foll to the ground; and hls head drooped heavily upon It, 


(Ch. v, vi, x, xvil, xxv, xlv=xlvii, Ivii, Iviii, Ixvili, Lxxifi, lxxy- 
Ixxvil, Ixxix, Ixxxii.) 

Gruoby, John. Servant to Lord George Gordon; » square-built, 

strong-made, bull-necked fellow, of the true English breed, self 
hard-headed, and imperturbable. (Ch. xxxv, xxxvii, 
xxxriii, Ivii, xvi, Ixxxii.) 

Haredale, Mr. Geoffrey. A country gentleman, burly in person, 
tera in disposition, rough and abrupt in manner, but thoroughly 
honest and unselfish. He resides at a mansion called “ The War- 
ron,” on the borders of Epping Forest, and not far from the May- 
pole Inn, Being a rigid Roman Catholic, he is made a special 
Object of vengeance by the Lord Gordon mob, He kills Sir John 
Chester in a duel, and thereupon quits England forever, ending his 
days in the seclusion of an Italian convent. (Ch. i, x-xii, xiv, xx, 
xxyexxrii, xxix, xxxiv, xlii, xliii, Ivi, Ixi, Ixvi, Levil, Lexi, Lexvi, 
lexix, Ixxxi, Lxxxii.) 

faredale, Miss Emma. His riece; daughter of Mr. Reuben 
Harodale, who is mysteriously murdered. She is finally married to 
Faward Chester. (Ch. i, iv, xii-xy, xx, xxv, xxvii-xxix, xxxii, 
Tix, Ixx, Ixxi, Lxxix, Ixxxi.) 

Hugh. A wild, athletic, gypsy-like young fellow, with something 
Gerve and sullen in his featares. Ho is at first a hostler at the 


— 





200. The Michens Mictlonarp. 


Maypole Inn, and afterwards a leader in the Gordon riots. Ha 
turns out to be a natural son of Sir John Chester, who, when urged 
to save him from the gallows, treats the appeal with the utmost 
sang froid, and permits }.im to be executed, without making the least 
effort in his behalf. (Ch. x-xii, xx, xxii, xxiii, xxviii, xxix, xxxiv, 
xxxy, xxxvii-xl, xliv, xlviii-l, lii-liv, lix, Ix, Ixiii-lxv, Ixvii-Ixix, 
Ixxiy, Ixxvi-Ixxviii.) 

“Hugh is anodle conception, Mis tleree exultation An bis animal powors, bis sabe 
serviency to the smooth Chester, his mirthful contempt and patronage of Tappertit, 


‘und his Prutal yet drm courage in the hour of death, form a pietare to beset in diae 
monde" —£. A. Poe. 


Langdale, Mr. A vintner and distiller; a portly, purple-fuced, 
and choleric old gentleman. (Ch. xiii, Lxi, Levi, Ixvii, Lxxxi.) 
Miggs, Miss. The single domestic servant of Mrs, Varden. 

‘This Miggs was a tall young lady, very mach addicted to pattens in private 
Ifo; slender and shrewish, of a rathor uncomfortable gure, and, though not 
absolutely iihlooking, of a wharp and noid visage, As m gonerat principle aad 
abstract proposition, Migge held the male sex to be utterly contemptible, 
and unworthy of notice ; to be Hoke, false, base, sottish, inclined to perjury, aud 
wholly undeserving. ‘When particularly exasperated ngninst them. (which, 
‘scandal an{d, was when Sim Tappertit slighted her most), she was accustomed to 
wah, with grent emphasis, that tho whole race of women could bat die off fn 
‘order that the mon might bo brought to know the real value of the blessings by 
which they set so little store: nay, her feeling for her order ran so high, that ae, 
sometimes declared, if she could only have good security for a falr round mum 
ber—say ten thousand—of young virgins following her example, she would, 
to spite mankind, hang, drown, stab, or poison herself with a joy past all ex- 
pression, 


When the Gordon riot breaks out, she forsakes her old master 
and mistress to follow and watch over Mr. Sim ‘Tappertit. After 
the dispersion of the rioters, Miss Miggs returns to Mr. Varden’s 
house, quite as a matter of course, expecting to be re-instated in 
her old situation. But Mrs. Varden, who is at first amazed at her 
audacity, orders her to leave the house instanter; whereupon the 
young lady relieves her mind after this wise: — 


“I'm quite delighted, I ’m sure, to find sich independency; feeling sorry. 
though, at the same time, mim, that you should have been forced into submissions 
whes you couldn't help yourself, He, ho, he! It mast bo great yexations, ‘ape 
cially considering how ill you always spoke of Mr, Joe, to have him for a son-in-law 
at last; and E wonder Miss Dolly can put up with him, either, after being off and 
‘on for so many yeurs with a coachmaker. But I have hoord ¢ay that tho couche 
maker thought twice about it, —e, he, he !—=and that he told s young mamas was 
friend of bis, that he hoped he knowed better than to be drawed Into thet 
‘though she and all the family déd putl uncommon strong." 

Hero she paused for a reply, and, receiving none, went on as befores— 

“Thave heerd say, mii, that the illnesses of some ladies was all pretensions 

















‘ 


( 


Darnady Rudge. 200 


‘evi that they could faint away stonc-dead whenever they had the inclinations 
sotodo. Of course, I never seo sich cases with my own eyes: ho, nol—he, Jie, 
ho!—nor master, neither: ho, nol He, he, he! I have heerd the neighbors 
make remark as some onoas they was acquainted with was a poor gvod-natur’d, 
mmcan-spirited creetur a4 went out fishing for u wifo one day, aud caught » Tar- 
tar. Of course, I never, to my knowledge, ree the poor person himself; nor did 
you, neither, mim: ho,no! Twonder whoitean be; don't you, mim? Nodoubs 
youdo,mim. Ho, yes! He,he, tei” 

Cast upon a thankless, undeserving world, and baffled in all hor 
schemes, matrimonial and otherwise, Miss Miggs turns sharper and 
sourer than ever. Tt happens, however, that, just at this time, a 
female turnkey js wanted for the county Bridewell, and a day apd 
hour is appointed for the inspection of candidates. Miss Mizgs 
attends, and is instantly chosen from a hundred and twenty-four 
competitors, and installed in office, which she holds till her decease, 
more than thirty years afterwards. (Ch. vii, ix, xiii, xviii, xix, xxii, 
xxvii, xxxi, xxxvi, xxxix, xli, li, xiii, Lex, Lexi, Ixxx, lxxxii.) 

“That mircle of mingled weakness prudery, and malice,—the Incomparable Mise 
‘Migs. She te an elderly maiden, who, hy some strange noglect on the part of mankind, 
‘has been allowed fo remain unmarried. This neglect might tn some amall degree be ac- 
‘counted for by the fact that her person and disposition came within the range of Me. 
‘Tappartit’s epithet of “acraggy." She had various ways of wreaking her hatred upon 
‘the olber sex, the most crue) of which was In often honoring them with ber company 
end divcouree, . . . Whon she watches at the window for the return of Sim Tappertit, 
‘With the Intention of betraying him, is described as’ having an expression of fice 
in which a great number of opposite Ingredients, such as mischief, cunning, malice, tk 
Jumph, and paticnt expectation, were all mixed up together Ina kind of physlognomical 
punch ¢* and as composing herself to wait and listen ‘Like some fair ogress who bas sat 
‘trap, and was waiting for a nibble from a plump young traveller.’ Dickens, in thiy 
aharacter, woll represents bow such seemingly Insignificant malignants as Miss Miggs 
tam become the pest of families, and that, though full of weakness and maltgnity, they 
san be proud of thelr virtue and religion, and mako slander the prominent element of 
their ploux conversation." — £. P. Whipple. 

Parkes, Phil. A ranger who frequents the Maypole Inn; a tall mar, 
‘Very taciturn, and a profound smoker. (Ch. i, xi, xxx, xxxiii, 

Peak. Sir John Chester's valet. (Ch. xxiii, xxiv, xxxii, lxxy, Ixxxii.) 

Recruiting Sergeant, The. A military officer in whose regi- 
tment Joc Willet enlists. (Ch. xxxi.) 

Rudge, Barnaby. A fantastic youth, half-crazed, halfidiotic 
Wandering listlessly about at the time of the Gordon riot, he 
overtaken by the mob, and eagerly joins them in their work of de= 
struction, His strength and agility make him a valuable auxiliary; 
and he continues fighting, until ho is at last overpowered, arrested, 
and condemned todeath. “ Aha, Hugh!" says he to his companion 
on the eve of their execution, “we shall know what makes the 

Sars shine now." A pardon is finally procured for him by Mr 






































202 The Dickens Mictfonary, 


Varden. (Ch. ili-vi, x=xii, xvii, xxv, xvi, xlv-l, 1ii, lili, Ivil, Iviil, 
Ix, Lei, Lev, Leviii, Lxix, Lexiii, Lexv-Ixxvii, Lexix, Lxxxii.) 

“ Thore never wes an \dlot so bountifully endowed with practical wixdom and herole 
‘tourago, with such fine feelings and such fidelity, aa* Baraaby;* but then one does not 
Judge bis by ordinary rules... . Tt ix interovting to contrast with the realistioorimnale 
‘whom Mr. Dickens depicted In later times the eriminal of the romance, the melodra- 
‘mati¢ Rudge, forever haunted by bis Imagination, — preciesly as we are told by persons 
‘familiar with them murderers are nof haunted, —leading @ self-tortured life for years, 
‘and then impelled to visit the #eene of his crimes at whlcb ideal of a’ radian who had 
‘ercapad detection hy a vory clover ruse modern experience would amile. Mat we do 
ot smile: the story Is too much for asy It ls too powerful to bo rosisted, though :¢ te 
Gflerly untruo; therefore we regard It as one of the finest romances ever written.” — 
Dudtin Review, vol. OX. 

Rudge, Mrs. Mother of Bamaby. (Ch. iv-vi, xvi, xvii, xxv, 
xxvi, xli, xlv-l, Ivii, Ixii, bxix, Isxiil, Ixxvi, Ixxix, Lexxii.) 

Rudge, Mr. Father of Barnaby, and a former steward of Reuben 
Haredale’s. One morning in the year 1788, Mr. Haredale is found 
murdered, and the steward is missing. Afterwards » body is dis- 
covered, which is supposed to be that of Rudge; but it is so dis- 
figured as not to be recognizable. After the lapse of many years, 
itis proved that Rudge was the real murderer, and that the body 
which was taken to be his was really that of another of bis vic- 
tims. He is finally captured and executed. (Ch. i-ili, y, vi, xvi- 
xviii, xxiii, xlv, xlvi, lv, lvi, lxi, xii, lxv, Ixviii, Ixix, xxiii, 
Ixxvi.) 

Btagg. A blind man; proprietor of a drinking-cellar and skittle 
ground. (Ch. viii, xviii, xly, xlvi, Lxif, Ixix.) 

Tappertit, Simon. Apprentice to Mr. Gabriel Varden, and a 
sworn enemy to Joe Willet, who has rivalled him in the affections 
of his master's daughter Dolly. 

Sim . . . was an old-fashioned, thin-faced, sleek-halred, sharp-nosed, smal 
eyed little fellow, very little more than flve feet high, and thoroughly convinced 
fn his own mind that he was above tho middle size, —rather tall, in fact, than 
otherwise. Of his figure, which was well enough formed, though somewhat of 

he leanest, he entertained the highest ndmlration; and with his legs, which, 
a knee breeches, were perfect curiosities of Littleness, he was enraptured to # 
ogree amounting to enthusiasm. ... Add to this that he was fn yeare Just 
tweaty, In his looks much older, and in conoelt at tenst two hundred; that he 
had no objection to be jested with touching his admiration of iy master’s 
daughter; and had even, when called upon at a certain obscure tavern to 
pledge the Indy whom he bad honored with his luve, tousted with many winks 
nd leers a fair creature, whose Christian name, he sald, began with « D [Dolly 
Varden), 

Mr. Tappertit is captain of the “ Prentice Knights” (afterwards 
called the * United Bull-Dogs”), whose objects were vengeance o# 











Barnaby Rudge, 203 


their tyrant masters (of whose grievous and insupportable oppres- 
sion no ’prentice could entertain a moment's doubt), and the res- 
toration of their ancient rights and holidays. He takes a leading 
part in the Lord George Gordon riots, but finally receives a gun- 
thot wound in his body, and has his precious legs crushed into 
shapeless ugliness. After being removed from a hospital to prison, 
‘and thence to his place of trial, he is discharged, by proclamation, 
‘on two wooden legs. By the advice and aid of his old master, to 
whom he applies for assistance, he is established in business as a 
shoe-black, and quickly secures a great run of custom: so that he 
thinks himself justified in taking to wife the widow of an eminent 
‘bone and rag collector. (Ch. iv, vii-ix, xviii, xix, xxii, xxlv, xxvil, 
xxxi, xxxvi, xxxix, xIvili-lil, lix, 1x, Lxii, Lxx, Ixxi, Ixxxii.) 

Varden, Dolly. A bright, fresh, coquettish girl, the very imper- 
sonation of good-humor and blooming beauty. She is finally mar- 
Tied to Joe Willet. (Ch. iv, xiii, xix-xxii, xxvii, xxxi, lix, lxx, Ixxi.) 

Varden, Gabriel. A frank, hearty, honest old locksmith, at 
charity with all mankind; father to Dolly Varden. (Ch. Si-vii, 
xiii, xiv, xix, xxi, xxii, xxvi, xxvii, xli, xlii, li, Lxiii, Lxiv, Lexi, Lxxil, 
Ixxiv-lxxvi, Ixxix, lxxx, lxxxii.) 

Varden, Mra. Martha. His wife. 

‘Mrs, Varden was a lady of what is commonly called an uncertatn temper, — 
a phrase, which, being interpreted, alguifies » temper folerably certain to make 
everybody more or less uncomfortable. ‘Thus it generally happened, that, 
when other people were merry, Mrs. Varden was dull; and that, when other 
people wore duil, Mrs, Varden was dispoved to be amazingly cheerful, Indeed, 
the worthy housewife was of such a capricious nature, that she not only st- 
tained a higher pitch of genius than Macbeth, in respect of her ability to be 
wise, amazed, temperate and furious, loyal and neutral. in an instant, bat would 
somotimes ring the changes backwards and forwards on all possible moods and 
fights in one short quarter of an hour; performing, as It were, a kind of triple 
‘bob major on the peal of instruments in the female belfry, with @ skilfulness 
and rapidity of execution that astonished all who heard her. 

It bad boen observed In this good lady (who did not want for personal at- 
tractions, being plump and buxom to look at, though, like her fair daughter, 
somewhat short In stature), that this uncertainty of disposition strengthened 
‘sad Increased with hor temporal prosperity; and divers wise men and matrous 
‘on friendly terms with the locksmith and his family even went #0 far as to as 
‘ert, that a tumble down some halfdozen rounds in the world’s Indder— such 
as the breaking of the bank Sa which her husband kept hls money, or some It. 
tle fal of thar kind — would be the making of her, and could hardly fall to ren 
‘dei her one of tho most agreeable companions in existence. 


(Ch. iv, vii, xili, xix, xxi, xxii, xxvii, xxxvi, xli, sli, Ji, Lew, 
bexii, lxxx, lxxxii.) 





204 She Wickens Dictlonarp. 


Willet, John, Landlord of the Maypole Tnn at Chigwell; a 
burly, large-headed man, with a fat face, which betokened profound 
obstinacy and slowness of apprehension, combined with a very 
strong reliance upon his own merits. 

‘The Maypole was an olf building with more gutleends than a lazy man 
would care to counton a sumuy day; hugo zigzag chimneys, out of which Jt 
seemed ns If smoke could not choose bat come in more than naturally fantastis 
shapes imparted to it in ite tortuous progress; anid vast atables, gloomy, rala- 
2uta, aud empty. ‘The place was said to have been bailt in the days of King 
Monry the Bighth. ... Its windows wore old diamond-pane lattices; its floors 
‘were sunken and uneven; Its colling blackened by the hand of time, and heavy 
with masaive beams. Over the doorway was an ancient porch qualntly and 
grotesquely carved; and hero, on summer eveatngs, the more favored customers 
smoked and drank, — ay, and sung many a good song too, sometimes, — repos 
ing on two grim-looking, high-backed settles, which, like the twin dragons of 
some fairy-tale, guanted the entrance to the mansfon. ... All bars are «nug 
places; but the Maypolo’s was the very enuggest, eosiest, and completest bar 
that ever the wit of nan devised. Sach amazing bottles in old oaken pigrou- 
holes! such sturdy little Dutch kegs, ranged in rows on shelves! so many lem- 
ons, hanging in separate nets, and formiug the fragrant grove already mentioned 
in this chronicle, suggestive, with goodly cans and snowy eagur stowed away 
hard by, of punch idealized beyond all mortal knowledge! such clozets! such 
presses! such places for putting thingy away in hollow window-seats!—alf 
crammed to the throat with eatables, drinkables, or sarory condiments; Inst 
Jy, and to crown all, as typical of the immense resourees of the establishment, 
and Its defiance to all visitors to ent and come again, auch a stupendous cheesot 

(Ch. x-xiv, xix, xx, xxiv, xxix, xxx, xxxili-xxxv, liv-lvi, 
Ixxii, Lexviii, lxxxii.) 

Old Willet ts not earpassed by any character, een among thove of Dicken fle 
Je natare Itself; yet a step farther would have placed him in the class of carieatures. 
‘His combined concelt and obtusity are indosoribably droll; and his peculiar mite 
‘directed enongy, when aroused, ls one of the moat eaquisite touches In all humorous 
painting." —£, 4. Poe, 

Willet, Joo, Son of John Willet; a broad-shouldered, strapping 
young fellow, whom it pleases his futher still to consider a little 
boy, and to treat accordingly, After being bullied, badgered, wor- 
ried, fretted, and brow-beaten, until he can endure it no longer, 
Joe runs away and joins the army. At the time of the London 
riots, however, he turns up, and renders good service to his friends, 
notwithstanding the loss of an arm at the siege of Savannal:. 
The futher is only too glad to welcome him back; nover speaks of 
him to a stranger afterwards, without saying proudly, “ My son's 
arm was took off at the defence of the— Salwanners — in 
America, where the war is." Joe finally marries Dolly Varden, 
whom he has long loved. (Ch. i-iii, xiii, xiv, xix, xxi, xxii, xxx 
xxxi, xli, Iviii, Levi, Lexi, Ixxii, xxviii, Lexx, Lexxii.) 






































Barnaby Rudge 205 


PRINCIPAL INCIDENTS. 


‘Cnarrex I. John Willet, andlor of the Maypole, and his guests, disctas the weathy 
Fs & euxplolous-looking stranger asks questions about the Warron, and Is waswored by 
Joe Willet; tho younger gacat ots oat to walk to London throagh the storm; Joe Willet 
te lectured for his forwantness by his father and his ¢riends: Solomon Daisy relatos the 
story of the munter of Mr. Rouben Haredate twenty-two years before,—I1. The enspictoam 
ooking stranger sets out for London, and rides furtously through the darkness; ho en 
‘counters Gabriel Varden on the road; Gabriel goes tack to the Maypole.— ITT. Joe Wiles 
‘rebels against his father's authority, and threatens to rum away; Gabriel advises him to 
think better of {ti going on to London, Gabriol te attracted by Ioud outeries, and finds 
Barnaby Radge standing over a bloody and apparently Ufeles body.—I¥. Mr. Varden's 
home descrited; Mr. Siinon Tappertit Is Introduced: Mr. Varden gives bis daughter an 
ecouut of his last night's adventure on tho road, and also his dificalty in nding Mise 
‘Emma HMaredaloy Dolly's confusion on bearing of Jos Willets the Jealousy of Mr. Tap= 
[pertlts aroused. —'V. Venton goes to Mire. Rudge's to inquire about Mr. Edward Chester, 
‘the young man whom he rescnedt he I wstonisted to find her reoelving # call from the 
‘ruffian he cneountered on the road.— VI. She declines to make any explanation, but begw 
him to keep allonty Gabriel sees Mr. Edward Chester. who gives him an account of his 
adventure; and Vanden recognizes In hls aseallant tho same man he himanif met; Barnaby 
‘nd his avon. —~ VET, Gabriel's reception by Dire. Varden and Migys on bis return home. — 





‘Kojghts,"* where bo ts received by Sugg; tho” "Prentice Knights" admit anew member; 
‘contdence betwen the captain und thenovice, TX, Miss Miggs witnesses Sim's exit from 
‘the house, and receives him on his retarn.—X. Mr. John Cheater vikits the Maypole, and 
‘nonds 4 note to Mr. Iaredale, requesting him to meet him there: Barnaby retarus with Mr. 
Haredale"sanswer.— XI. Speculations of Str. Willet’s customersin regant to tho meeting of 
‘Mr. Chester and Mr, Haredale; Interviow between these gentlemen, in which they dixcass 
‘the attachment of Mr. Edward Chester and Mise Emma Haredale, nnd agree, though on 
‘different grounds, to oppove it. ~ XII. Surprise of John Willet at flading Me. Chester wntn- 
Jared. —XIIL Joe Wiilet sets out for London to pay hefather's rent; he goes to the Warren 
forany memago Miss Fins may havo for Edward Cheater: Joogoes to the Vantous’, where 
‘Ube bouquet he had prepared for Dolly meotaan Inglorious Mito; Dolly goes toa party, and 
Too gous homo disappointed. — XIV. On the road home Joo is Jolned by Mr. Edward Chester: 
‘Zdwari calls on Miss Haredate, nd ts dixmiaeed from the house by her unclo; finding bia 
‘father st the Maypole, Edwand avolds meeting him, and returns to town, — XV, Intorview 
etween Mr. Jahn Chester and hison, whorcin he explains the poverty of their resources 
‘and the neceslty of his son's forming # wealthy marriage.— XVI. Condition of London 
Streets at the timo of the story; appesrance among the outcasts of the rufflan who am 
sulted Mr. Chester: ho follows Mra. Rudge to her home, and galas admittance. — XVIL. 
‘Terror of the widow lest he should be seen by her idiot aon; Barnaby tells hie mother of 
els wearch for the robber, who, concealed tn m closet, overhears thelr conversation: tho 
‘huffian threatens her with a sure and slow rovenge, If she betrays him, and leaves her.— 
XVINL After wandering through the streets nearly oll night, he sees the departure of Sim, 
‘Tappertit from the rendezvous of the ‘Prentices, and obtains sbeltor with Stags.— XIX. 
Hatwrand Chester calls at Mr, Varden's to request Dolly to be the bearer of w Lotter to Mise 
Baredale: Mr. Varden proposes to tako his wife and daughter to the Maypole, and how 
Mire. Varten recelvés the proposal they arrive at the Maypole; Dolly goes to the Warren, 
artylng Mr. Edward's letter.—XX. Leaving Mix tlaredale, on her return with theanewot 
be is mot by Mr, sredale, who questions her in regard to her errand, and proposes to het 
‘Wdecome Sine Haredaie’s companion; returning to the Maypole, Dolly it assaulted by 
ugh, and reeoued by Joo Willet.— XXL. She discovers tho loss ef her bracelet and of 
‘Aim Haredale's letters Hugh questions her about the man who ssaaulted her, secretly 
‘warning ber not to betray him; the Vardens returning home, Joe accompanies them oa 
he way, snd thay are soon Joined by ugh —XXIE. Hugh rides back with Joe; Miger 
8 




















206 Sbe Dickens Mlctlonacy Fi 


‘sepeats Dolly"s adventure to Mr. Tappertit, wh» denounces Joy. — XXII. Hagh walts upon 
‘Mr. Joln Chestor, and gives him Mis Haredale’s letter to his son, telling hin how he 
‘obtained It; how Mr. Chester received It; and how he cautioned Flugh wbout robbing on 
he highway. —XXIV. Mr, Tappertit calls upon Mr. Chester, and compiains of the treat- 
iment he has recelved from bls son; recommends him to seo Mrs. Varden, and prevent 
Dolly's being a go-between for the lovers: and warns him against the character of Joo. — 
ZXXV. dra Madge and Barnaby go to Chigwell; she has an interview with Mr. Baredale, 
‘and rejeets the assistance she bas received from him since her husband's murder, for rea 
ons which sho declines to give.—XXVI. Mr. Haredale tnforma Varden of the slngulat 
eonduct of Mrs. Rudge, and Mr. Varden gives him an account of bis sdventare with the 
ruffian, and of 3tre Rudge’s conduct towards him; they go to Mrs, Rudge's house together, 
‘and And Mr. John Chester there alone, who informs them of the disappearance of the 
‘widow and hor son, but cannot toll where they have gone.— XXVIL. Mr. Cheater leaves 
‘them, and calls upon Mra. Varden; he makes insinuations against the character of bis 10m, 
‘And roquests Mrs. Varden's influence in breaking off the engagement between Kaward and 
‘Miss Haredale.— XXVIUL Mr. Chester dnds Hugh asleep on the stairways Hugh gives 
him & lottor from Dolly Varden to Miss Maredale, which Mz. Chester recelves with less 
pleasure than Hugh expecta — XXIX, Mr. Chester goes to Chigwell again, and stopratthe 
‘Maypolos Hugh shows bis actirity 1 Joo Wiliet upon his“ patrole; * Mr. Cheater encoun- 
ters Mina Haredale, and endeavors to poison her mind against Edward; they arelnterrupted 
oy Mr. Maredale,— XXX. Joo rebels againat his father's authority, punishes ‘Tom Cobb 
for interfering, and escapes from the house. — XXXL. Ho mects a recrulting-sergoants Joe 
‘sccks ai interriew with Dolly Varden, who seomé indifferent to hii, and he enlists, — 
XXXII. Mr. Chester and his aon haye an interview, in which Edward gives his father 
‘offence, nnd Ix diamissod from his root with hls ourse.— XXXIUK. After an interral of five 
rears. John Willet and bis friends are sitting again tn the pablic room of the Maypale, & 
sovere storm mging without; sudden entrance of Solomon Dalsy in grout fright ho Te 
ates what he as Jost heard and soon at the church, —XXXIV. Mr. Willet resolves te 
‘eommunteate to Mr, Huredale what Daisy has witnessed, and summous Hagh to accompany 
‘dm to the Warruny Mr. Willet’s story bas # marked effoct on Mr. Maredale.—XXXV. Ie 
turning home, Mr, Willet cueounters Lord George Gorton and his attendants, who go to 
tho Maypole to apend the night; interview betwoen Lord George Gordon and hisanoretary ¢ 
van Grueby expreses his disgust at his lord's proceedings. XXXVI. Lord George nd 
hip secretary in council consider the accemions to thelr cause In men snd means; Guxhford 
sowing seed. — XXXVIL Lord George Gordon's cause and ite progres; Lord George and 
Ihis artendants Journay to London; Intorwew between Gashford and Donnis, in which 
‘Dennis shows his desire for active work tn the No-Popery cause. —XXXVIIL Hugh pre 
‘sents himself, bringing one of the handbilis dropped by Gashford, and Ix enrolled 4n ste 
Great Mrotestant Amsoclation; Hagh and Dennis take a look at the houses of parliament, 
‘and then repair to the Boot. —XXXIX, Mr, Tappertit bestows his patronage upon Hugh, 
‘and reminds him of former timer; Dennis gives his companion tome particulars of bis 
Arade, without exposing himself,— XL Hugh makes a call ut Sir John Chester'ss how Si 
Joho obtained hia titles Hugh informs Sir John that he has Joined the Protestant Aspocine 
‘Won, and made the acquaintance of Dennis; Sir Jotm's underhand plotting. XLT Mr, 
‘Varden defends himself for jolning the Voluatecrs; Dolly questions hor futher about Mr, 
‘Harodale's abscnce from home; Dolly"s agitation at her father’s wontion of Joo Willet 
XLI. Mr. Haredale moots the locksmith, and Informa him that ho intends to pase the 
night In watching at Mrs. Rudgo's old home: and Mr, Varden leaves him there, —XLUL 
Mow Mr. Haredale kept his watch; Mr. Haredale encounters Sir John Chester and Gaahe 
fond in Wostruinster Hall; Lord George Gordon johus them, and Sir John introduces Mr, 
Haredalo ax m Paplat; Mr. Maredale, assaulted by the crowd, retallates upon Gasbford, 
tad 1s rescued frum the revenge of the mob by Jolin Grueby.—XLIV. Gashfurd jolus 
‘Dennis and Hugh, aad incites them to puniih Haredale. —XLV, Mra Ikudge and Barnaby, 
1 tho quiet village home they had secured, are saluted by a blind waytarer; ho proves te 
}+ Stagg. and theagent of the radian from whom tho widow hr fied, in whose name be 
Aermands twenty pounds. — XLVI. Stagg excites in Barnaby a wealro to seo the world; the 
‘widow slvos Stagg hor lislo hoand, and early In the morning leaves her home with Barna 
W to Lose theusselyos ta the crowds of London, —XLVLL. Harats treatment of the widow 














Barnaby Burg 207 





and her son by a “fine old country gentioman.""—~XLVITT. The travellers arrive at West 
‘minster Bridgo Jast as the crowd of Lord Gonton’y adherents are passing over to the city + 
Barnaby ts enticed to Join them by Lora George himself: he Is recognized by Hagh, ana 
drawn into the ranks. —XLIX, The erowd of Lard Georse Gordon's followers meet at the 
Douse of commons; they rv confronted by General Conway and Colonel Gordon; the 
mod are opposed by the military, and Barnaby strikea down a soldier with hin flagetaff, —~ 
4. Gashfort finds Dennis and Mugh at tho Boot, and puts them up to greater acta of vie 
Tenet. —LL Mr. Tappertit retarns home, boasting of the part he has taken 10 the disturb 
ance of the day, gives Mrs Vanten « “protection ™ from Lord George Gordon, and escapen 
from Mr. Vanden, who attompts to detain him; Gabriel destroys hile wifo's colloction-bax, 
and the *proteotion."*—LIL. Hugh and Sim Tappertit plan an expedition agalest Mr. 
‘Harodale's house; the rioters derpoll churches and dwellings, and make bonfires of the 
plunder. LIK Gashford informs Hugh of the reward offered for he ringleaders of 
the mols; the rioters set out on thelr expedition to Chigwell. —LIV. Mr. Willot gives the 
“evidence of his venses"* against the reports of the London riots: bis cronies start for 
‘London to ses for themselvex; the mob visit the Maypole, dospoll the house, bind oldJobn 
to bis chair, and hasten on to the Warren, LY. After the departure of the mob, a man 
comes to the tnn, and Is questioning Willet, when be is startled by the ringing of the bell 
atthe Warren; the mob destroy Mr. Haredale's house, and disperse. — LVI. The Maypole 
‘eronies.on the way to London, meet Mr. Uaredalo on horseback, who takes Dalsy up behind 
‘him, end hurries on to Chigwell: they find Mr. Willet bound as the mob left him; he 
fnforms Mr. Haredalo of the call ho: has rocolved from “a dead many" Mr, Iaredal 

Dastens on to the rulas of his house, follows a shadowy form up the towerstatrs, and Krap= 
los with Rodge, the munlerer of his brother. —LVIT. amahy,on guard st the Boot, is 
‘Visited by Lord Gordon and his servant; Gruchy excites the anger of Lont George by ealle 
Sug Damady mad; s company of soldiers surround the Woot, and Barnaby is taken 
Prinoner.—LVILL. Barnaby notices a one-armed ian among his guard; Barnaby 4¢ come 
mitted to Newgate, —LIX. Sim Tappertit, Dennls, and Hugh, having dispersed the rioters, 
conrey Emma Haredite and Dolly Varden in « carriage to Landon, whore they consine 
‘them in. miserable cottage, and warn them against any disturbance. — LX. Retarning to 
‘the Hoot, Tagh and his companions find \t tn posscssion of the soldiers. and repair to the 
Vieet Market: « one-armed man brings news of the arrest of Barnaby. —LXI. Mr. Hare 
ale haatens to London with his prisoner, and applies to the lord-mayor for bie committal; 
mecting with no success, he obtains a warrant from Sir Jobn Fielding, and sees the muir 
Serer confined tn Newgate, —LX11. Stagg visite Kadgo In prison, who relates to him the 
‘particulars of his crime; Stagg forms a plan for releasing him: the father and son meet in 
‘the prison, —LXIIT. The rioters, carrying out thelr designs on Newgate, ropatr to Gabriel 
Vandet's; he refuses to comply with thelr demand that he shall pick the prison lock; Sim 
‘Tappertit ordors Miggs to bo released, and sonds her to Join Xmme and Dolly.—LXIV. 
‘Varden refuses the demands of the mob in froat of Newgate, and ts rescued from thelr 
fury by tho one-armed man snd another, and conveyed away through tho crowd; the 
‘Hoters burn down the Jail-door, and gain entrance to the tnterior.~ LXV. Radge and 
Barnaby are released dy the mob; Dennis viaits the criminals condemned to be hungt 
Mugh releases theso criminals against the remonstrances of Dennis. —LXVI. Mr, Haredale 
‘sceks his niece without avail: fearing the release of the murderer, ho goes to Newga 

but ls met by Mr. Langdale, who conveys him, in an exhausted condition,to his homes 
Progress of the rlot.—LXXIL. The rioters, led ty Hagh, attack the houso of Mr. Langdaley 
‘Langdale and Mr, Haredalo, oseaping by secret passage, are mot by Ldward Chester anG 
Toe Willet, who, disguised as rioters, have found this means of resouing them: Joo Wiles 
[proves to be the one-armed man.—LXVIII. Uarnaby and his fathor eacape to Clerkenwell, 
(and find shelter in a poor shed; Barnaby rejoins the rioters on Holborn Hill Just as Hugh 
weatruck down by Edvard Chester, rescues Hugh, and carries him to the place where 
Maidice ta concealed. —LXIX. Barnaby goes in search of Stage, with whom he returns: 
‘Dennls Joins them, nnd, at « xignal from him, a body of soldiers advance, and arrest all but 
Stig, who Is shot In attempting to escape. —LXX. Dennis goes to the house where Bama 
‘400 Dolly sre confined, Miggs informs him that Miss Haredale is to be removed the next 
‘aight; and he {mparts his scheme for disposing of Dolly.—LXXI. Gashfurd attempts to 
{aduce Emma to trust in hilt, and go with him, whon Mr. Haredale and his friends onter, 
































208 Ede Wickens Wictlouary. 


reseue the captives, and all repalr to the Black Lion.—LXXII. Mr. Willet makes up hie 
‘mind that Joo's arn hasbeen took off" Interelew between Dolly and Joe—LXXELE, 
Dispersion of the rioters; interview between Itarnaby and hie mother in bit dungeons 
Mrs. Rudge makes a vain wttempt vo move her husband torepentance. —LXXIV. Deonia's 
terror of Hagh on being confined in the same cell with kim: Hugh tells Dennis of bts 
mother’s fate, —LXXV, Gabriel Varden calls upon Sir Job Chester, informs hin thas be 
bellowes Hugh to be bla non, and besa Sir Jobn to see bil, and atterupt to rouse tn hire & 
‘sense of his guilt: Ste John’s callousness. —LXXVL The exeeation of Budge: agouy of 
‘Devinis at hla pppreaching fate. —LXXV1I. Iugh and Dennis are led out to execution, ang 
Hugh pleads for Banuaby. —LXXVIIL Dolly sceks ous Soo Willet, and declares her affec~ 
tion for him. —LXXUX, Mr. Haredate and Kaward Chester meet at Mr. Vanten's house; 
Mr. Haredale now approves of Eawant"s attachment to his niece, and blesses thelr uniont 
Galsiel Is bronght home # triumph by the crowd, accompanied hy Harnaby, for whom 
they havo obtained a pardon, —LXXX. Happiness of the locksmith and hisfamily: Mlgee 
recelves her discharge from Mra. Varden Mr. Haredalo visits the ruins of tho Warren, 
where he encounters Sit John Chester, with whom he has an altercation, ending In &duek 
ta which Bir John te killed, ~LXXXI, Subsequent career of the principal characters, 





A Christmas Carol. 


TY rose. 


BEING A GHOST-STORY OF CHRISTMAS. 


‘Tuts work was “printed and published for the suthor by Messrs. Bradbury and 
Evuns,in December, 1643, in one volume, I2mo, with four colored etchings on 
steel by John Leech,” In the Protos to the edition of the Christmas books pub- 
Uished in 1850, Mr, Dickens snid of this, as well as of the others, “My purpose 
‘was, in a whimsical kind of mask, which the good humor of the #eason Justified, 
to awaken some loving and forbearing thoughts, never out of season in a Christian 
land.” Lord Jefrey wrote to the author respecting the present tale, “You may 
be sure you have done more good, and not only fastened more kindly feelings, but 
Frompted more positive acts of benevolence, by this little publication, than ean be 
traced to all the pulpits and confessfonals since Christnas, 1842." 


OHARAOTERS INTRODUCED. 


Belle. A comely matron, whom the Ghost of Christmas Past 
rhows to Scrooge, and in whom he recognizes an old sweetheart. 
(Stave ii.) 

Varoline, Wile of one of Scrooge’s debtors, shown to him in & 
dream by the Ghost of Christmas Yet To Come. (Stave iv.) 

Cratchit, Bob. Clerk to Scrooge. He works in a dismal little 
cell,—a sort of tank leading out of Scrooge’s counting-room 
(Stave i, iil, iv, v.) See Scrooge. 

Lod 








210 She Miekens Mietlonacy. 


Cratchit, Mrs. His wife, (Stave iii, iv.) 

Cratchit, Belinda. Their second daughter. (Stave ili, iv.) 

Cratchit, Martha. Their eldest daughter. (Stave iii, iv.) 

Cratchit, Master Peter. One of their sons. (Stave ili, iv.) 

Cratchit, Tim, called Tory Tim. Their youngest son, a cripple 
(Stave iii) See Scnooax. 

Dilber, Mrs, A laundress whom’ the Ghost of Christmas Yet To 
Come shows to Scrooge. (Stave iv.) 

Fan. A little girl, Scrooge’s sister (afterwards the mother of Fred, his 
nephew), whom the Ghost of Christmas Past shows to Scrooge in a 
dream. (Stave ii.) 

Fezziwig, Mr. A kind-hearted, jolly old merchant to whom 
Scrooge was a ‘prentice when a young man, and whom the Ghost 
of Christmas Past brings before him in a vision when he has become 
an old man and a miser, (Stave li.) 

Fezziwig, Mrs. His wife, “worthy to be his partner in every 
sense of the term.” At the ball which her husband gave to his 
work-people on Christmas Eve, and which the Ghost of Christmas 
Past shows to old Scrooge, “in came Mrs. Fezziwig, one vast, sub- 
stantial smile.” (Stave ii.) 

Fezziwigs, The three Miss, Their daughters, beaming and 
lovable, with six young followers, whose hearts they break. 
(Stave ii.) 

Fred. Scrooge’s nephew. (Stave i, iii, v.) 

Ghost of Christmas Past. A phantom that shows 
“ shadows of things that have been” in his past life. (Stave ii.) 

Ghost of Christmas Present, A jolly spirit, glorious to see, 
of a kind, generous, hearty nature, who invisibly conducts old, 
Scrooge through various scenes on Christmas Eve, (Stave ili.) 

Much and fur they went, and many homes they visited, but alwayy 
with happy end, ‘The spirit stood beslde sick-beds, and they were cbeerfils 
‘on foreign lands, and they were close at home; by struggling men, and they 
were patient in their greater hope; by poverty, and It was rich. In almshouse, 
hospital, nud Jail, tn mivery's orery refuge, where vain man, tu bls little briet 
authority, had not made fast the door, and barred the spirit out, he left his 
blessing, and taught Scrooge his precepts. 

Ghost of Christmas Yet To Come, An apparition which 
shows Scrooge “shadows of things that have not happened,” but 
which may happen in the time befors him. (Stave iv.) 

Joe, A junk-dealer, and a receiver of stolen goods, shown to ole 
Scrooge by the Ghost of Christmas Yet To Come. (Stave tv.) 








dl 














BOB CRATCHIT AND TINY Trot 


& Chetstmas Carol. on 


‘Marley, The Ghost of Jacob. A spectre that visits Scrooge 
ou Christmas Eve, and was in lift his partner in business. (Stave 
i) See Scrooor. 

Berooge, Ebenezer. The hero of the “ Carel;” surviving part- 
ner of the firm of Scrooge and Marley. 

‘Oht dat he was a tight-fisted hand at tho grindstone, Scrooge! —a squeezing, 
‘wrenching, grasping, scraping, clutching, 


contained and solitary as an oyster. ‘The cold within him froze hls old fea 

tures, nipped his pointed nose, shrivelled his cheek, stiffened his gait, mado bis 
‘eyes red, hin thin lips blue, and spoke out shrewdly In his grating voce. A 
frosty rime was on his head, and on bis eyebrows nnd his wiry ebin. He care 
ried his own low temperature always about with him: he toed his office in the 
dog-days, and did n't thaw it one degree at Christmas, 

One Christmas Eve, after having declined in a very surly man- 
ner to accept an invitation to dinner the next day from his nephew 
Fred, and having reluctantly given his clerk, Bob Cratchit, permis- 
sion to be absent the whole day, Scrooge goes home to his lodg 
ings, where, brooding over a low fire, he is visited by the oe 
Old Marley, who has been dead seven years, 

Scooge fell upon his knees, und clasped his bands before his fhce. 

“Morey!” ho sald. “Dreadful apparition, why do you trouble me?” 

“Man of the worldly mind!’ replied the ghost, “do you believe in me, or 
not?” 

“1 do," ald Serooge. “I must, But why do spirits walk the earth? and 
‘why do they come to me?” 

“It Is required of every man,” the ghost returned, “thot the spirit within 
‘Mm should walk abroad among his fellow-men, and travel far and wide; and, 
Af that spirit goes not forth in life, it is condemned to do so after death, It ts 
doomed to wander through the world,—oh, woe ls me!—and witness what it 

‘cannot share, but might have shared on earth, and turned te happiness.” 

Apts tmp rated wpe oe its chain, sud wrung ite ehadowy 


rie om are ftiered? ald Groogs, trembling. “Tell me why.” 
“<Fwear the chain I forged in life," replied the ghost. “I made tt tink by 
Unk, and yard by yard: I gieded it on of my own free will, and of my own free 
‘will [wore tt, Te its pattern strange to you?” 

Serooge trembled more and more, 

“Tenr mo!" eriod the ghost, “My tlme fs nearly gone. . . . T am here tow 
‘aight to warn you that yon have yet a chance and hope of exeaptng my fave,— 
chance and hope of my procuring, Ebenezer." 

“You were always a good friend to me,” said Scrooge. *Thank’ee!” 

+ You will be haunted," resumed the ghost, “by threo apirita, .. . Rxpeet 
‘the first to-morrow, when the bell tolls one.” 

“Could n't I take "em all at once, and hav® it over, Jacob? hinted Scrooge. 
“ Expect the second on the next night nt the tame hour; the third upon the 
next night, when the last stroke of twelve ns ceased to vibrate. Look to see 





212 Ede Wickens Wietfonary, 


‘me no more; and look, that, for your own sake, you remember what has passed 
between as!” ... 

‘became sensible of confused noises in the alr, incoherent wounds of 

and selfaccusatory. 


Scrooge 
inmentation and regret, wailings Inexpressibly sorrowful 
‘The spectre, after listening 2 moment, joined in the mournful dirge, and floated 
‘out upon the bleak, dark night, 

Being much in need of repose, whether from the emotion he had 
undergone, or the fatigués of the day, or his glimpse of the invisible 
world, or the lateness of the hour, or from all combined, Scrooge goes 
straight to bed, without undressing, and falls asleep upon the instant. 
When he awakes, itis nearly one. Tho hour soon strikes; and, as the 
notes die away, the curtains of the bed are drawn aside, and a child 
stands before him. It is the Ghost of Christmas Past. The spirit bids 
him follow, and takes him to scenes long past. His childhood eomes 
back to him. His sister Fan is before him. His o!d master Fezziwig 
re-appears, and Dick Wilkins, the companion of his boyish days. It is 
Christmas time; and he and Dick and many are made happy by their 
master’s liberality. The scene changes, and Scrooge sees himself in 
the prime of lif. “His face had not the harsh and rigid lines of later 
years, but it had begun to wear the signs of avarice;” and a young 
girl stands beside him, and tells him that another idol, a golden one, 
has displaced her, and that she releases him. “May you be happy 
in the life you have chosen!” she says sorrowfully, and disappéars, 
“Spirit” says Scrooge, “show me no more; conduct me home.” But 
the ghost points again, and the wretched man sees a happy home, — 
husband and wife, and many children; and the matron is she whom 
he might have called his own. ‘The spirit vanishes, and Scrooge, 
exhausted and drowsy, throws himself upon the bed, and sinks into a 
heavy sleep. He awakes as the bell is upon the stroke of ones and the 
Ghost of Christmas Present is before him. Again he goos forth. 

And perhaps it was the pleasure the good spirit had in showing off this power 
of his, or else it was his own kind, generous, hearty natare,and bis sympathy 
with all poor men, that led him straight to Scrooge’s clerk's; for there he went, 
and took Serooge with him, holding to his robe; and on the threshold of the door 
the spirit smiled, and topped to boss Bob Cratehit’s dwelling with the xprinklings 
of his torch. ‘Think of that! Hob had but fifteen “Bob” mweek himself; he 
poeketed on Saturdays but fiftecn copies of his Christian name: and yet the Ghost 
of Christmas Present blessed his four-roomed house! 

‘Then up rose Mrs. Cratehit, Cratehit’s wife, dressed out but poorly in a twice 
turned gown, but brave in ribbons, which are cheap, and make a goodly show for 
aixpence; and ehe laid the cloth, assisted by Belinda Crrtchit, second of her 
daughters, also brave in ribbons; while Master Meter Cratchit plunged a fork inte 
the saucepan of potatoes, and, getting the corners of his monstrous shirt-eallar 

Bob's private property, conferred upon his son and belr is honor of the day tate 





ee 





& Christmas Carol. 213 


his mouth rejoiced to find himself so gallantly attired, and yearned to show his 
tinen in the fashionable parks, And now two smaller Cratehits, boy and girl. 
came tearing in, screaming that outside the baker's they had smelt the goose, and 
known It for thelrown; and, basking in Inxurious thougtits of sage and onion, these 
young Cratchits danced about the table, and exalted Master Voter Cratchit to the 
Skies} while he (not proud, although his collar near choked him’ blew the fire 
‘until the slow potatoes, lubbllng up, knocked loudly at the saucepanlid to be let 
‘out, and pooled, 

“ What has ever got your precious father, then?” said Mrs. Cratehit, “And 
your brother Tiny Tim? And Martha warn't as late last Christmas Day by half an 
hour!" 

Here ’s Martha, mother!” said a girl, appearing ws ahe spoke. 

“Here ’s Martha, mother!” eried the two young Cratchits. “Hurrah. there's 
guch a goore, Martha!” 

“Why, bless your heart alive, my dear, how late you are!” sald ara. Cratebit, 
‘Meving her a dozen times, and taking off her shawl and bonnet for ber with ofl 
ious zeal. 

“We # deal of work to finish ap last night,” replied the girl, "and had to 
dear away thls morning, mother!” 

‘Well, never mind, so loug as you are come," sald Mrs, Cratchit, “Sit ye 
down before the fire, my dear, and have a warm; Lord bless xe!” 

“No, not There "« father coming,” eried the two young Cratehlts, who were 
everywhere at once. “ Ifide, Martha, hide!” 

80 Martha hid herself; and in came little Bob the father, with at least three 
feet of comforter, exclustyn of the fringe, hanging down before him, and his thread- 
bare clothes darned up and brushed to look seasonable; and Tiny Tim upon his 
shoulder. Alas for Tiny Tim! he bore a little eruteh, and hnd his limbs sup 
ported by wn iron frame, 

“Why, wheres our Martha?” cried Bob Cratehit, looking round. 

“Not coming!" said Mrs. Cratehit. 

“Not coming!” nald Bob, with a xudden declension in his high spirits; for he 
had been Tim’s blood-horse all the way from church, and tnd come home rampant, 
“Not coming upon Christmas Day! 

Martha did n’t Iike to see him disappotated, if it were only a joke: 10 she came 
out prematurely from bebind the closet-door, and ran into his arms ‘hile the two 
young Cratchits hustled Tiny Tim, and bore him off into the waah-house, that he 
might hear the pudding singing In the copper. 

* And how did little Tim behave?” naked Mrs. Cratchit, when she had rallied 
Bob on his credality, and Bob had hugged his daughter to his heart’s content, 

As good ag gold” «aid Bob,“ and better. Somehow he gets thoughtful, sit 
fing by Diinseif 40 much, and thinks the strangest things you ever heard. Ie told 
me, coming home, that he hoped the people saw him in the church, because he was 
‘cripple, and tt inight be pleasant to them to remember upon Christmas Day who 
taade lamo beggars walk, and blind mon «ee.” 

Bob's voice was tremulous when he toht them this, and trembled more when he 
sald that Tiny Tira was growing strong and hearty. 

Wiswotire listle crutch was heard upon the floor; and back came Tiny Titn before 
smother word was spoken. escorted by his brother and aister to his stool beside the 
fire. And while Bob, turning up his cuffs. —as if, poor fellow! they were capable 
‘af being made more ehabby,—compounded some hot mixture in a jug with pin 
‘©ud lemous, and stirred it round and round, and put it on the hob toslmmer, Suse 
fer Peter and the two ubiquitous young Cratchlis went to feteh the goose, with 
chick they soon returned {a high procession, 





























24 Ebe Wickens Bictlonarp. 





Such a bustle ensued, that you might bavo thought a goose the rarest of alt 
birds, —a feathered phenomenon, to which n black ewan was a matter of course, 
and, fu truth, tt was something very like ft In that house, Mra. Cratchit made the 
gravy (ready beforehand in w little waucepan) hisking hot; Muster Peter mashed 
the potatoes with incredible vigor; Miss Belinda sweetened up the apple-sauce; 
‘Murtha dusted the hot plates; Bob took Tiny Tim beside him in a tiny corner at 
the table; the ¢wo young Cratchits set chairs for everybody, not forgetting them= 
selves, and, mounting guard upon thelr posts, crammed spoons into their months, 
Jest they should alirick for goose before thelr tarn came to be helped. At last the 
dishes were set on, and grace was exid, It was succeeded by a breathlens pause, 
‘as Mra. Cratehit, looking slowly all nlong the carving:kulfe, prepared to plunge it 
in the breast; but when she did, and when the long-expected gush of stuffing Insaed 
forth, one murmur of delight arovo all round the board; and even Tiny Tim, exelted 
by the two young Cratchits, best on the table with the handle of his knife, and 
feebly erled, “ Hurrah 1 

At Just the dinner was all done, the cloth wns cleared, the hearth swept, and the 
fire mado up. ‘The compound in the jug being tasted, and considered perfect, ap- 
ples and oranges were pat upon the table. and ashovelful of chestnuts on the fire. 
‘Then all the Cratohit family drew round the hearth, In what Bob Cratchit called & 
circle, meaning half x one; and at Bob Cratchit’s elbow stood the family display 
Of glass, —two tumblers and a custard-cup without a handle, 

‘Those held the hot stuff from the jug, however, as well as golden goblets would 
hae done; and Bob served it out with beaming looks, while the chestauts on the 
fire sputtered and cracked nolally. ‘Then Bob proposed :— 

“A merry Christmas to us-all, my dears! God bless ust” Which all the family 
recehoed. 


+ God bless us every one!” said Tiny Tim, the Inst of all. 

Bob then proposes the health of Mr. Scrooge ; and although his wife 
does not relish the toast, yet, at the solicitation of her husband, she 
eonsents to drink it for her husband's sake and the day's. 

Again the scene changes, and Scrooge finds himself in the bright 
gleaming house of his nephew, where a merry company are enjoying 
themselves, and are laughing at his surly refusal to join in their Christ- 
mas festivities. 

‘The third and last spirit comes at the same hour, and introduces 
Itself as the Ghost of Christmas Yet To Come. It shows Scrooge a 
room in which a dead man is lying, and in which a motley crowd is 
joking and laughing, and casting lots for the very curtains surround 
ing the bed on which the body lies. The gpirit points to the head, 
covered by the thin sheet; but Scrooge has no power to pull it aside, 
and view the features. As they leave the room, howover, he beseeches 
the spirit to toll him what man it Is who lies there so friendless and 
uncared for. ‘The ghost does not answer, but conveys him hurriedly 
to a churchyard, neglected, overgrown with weeds, “ choked up with 
‘oo much burying, fat with repleted appetite. A worthy place!* 
‘The npirit stands among the graves, and points down to one; and 


Mi Epcistmas Carol, 216 


Scrooge beholds upon the-stone of the neglected grave his own 
name, —“ Ebenezer Scrooge,” 

“Am Fthat man who lay upon the bed?” he erled upon his knees. 

{The eplrit pointed from the grave to him, and back agala. 

No, spirit!) Oh, no, not” 

‘Tho fingor still was 
© Scrooge asks if there is no hope; if these sights are the shadows 
of what must, or what may come téhim? The kind hand tremblos 
and Serooge sees room for hope. 

“Twill honor Christmas in my heart, and try co keep it all the year, Twill 
live dn the Paxt, the Present, and the Future, ‘The spirits of all three shall 
strive within me. Iwill not shut out the lessons they teach, Ob! tell me I may 
sponge away the writing ou this stone!” . . 

Holding up his hands In a last prayer to have his fate reversed, he saw an 

“alteration tn the phantom’s hood and dress, It shrunk, collapsed, and dwin- 
died down Into a bed-post. 

‘Yes! and the bed-post was his own; the bed was his own; the room was bls 
own, — best and happiest of all, the time before him was his own to make 
‘amends in! 

And he does make amends most amply. The les#on of his dream 
is not forgotten. He instantly sends a prize turkey to the Cratchits, 
twice the size of Tiny Tim, and gives half a crown to the boy that 
goes and buys it for him. He surprises his nephew by dining with 
him, and the next day raises Bob Cratchit’s salary. In short, “he 
became as good a friend, as good a master, and as good a man, as 
the good old city knew, or any other good old eity, town, or borough 
in the good old world.” 

Tiny Tim. See Crarcurr, Tim, 

Topper, Mr. Onc of the guests at Fred’s Christmas dinner-party ; 
@ bachelor, who thinks himself a wretchod outcast because he has no 
wife, and consequently gots his eye upon one of Scrooge’s nisco's 
sisters. (Stave ii.) 

Wilkins, Dick. A fellow 'proatice of Scrooge’s. (Stave ii.) 








The Life and Adventures of Martin 
Chuz3lewit. 





‘Twas novel was begun after Mr. Dickens’s return from his first visit to 
America In 1941-42, and was Issued in twenty monthly shilling parts, the first part 
making its appearance January 1, 1863, ‘The work was completed and published in 
one volume in 19M. It was illustrated with twenty etchings on steel by “Phiz™ 
(Hablot K. Browne), and was dedicated to Miss Burdett Coutts, 

“My main object in this story,” says the author In his preface, wns to exhibit 
In a varinty of axpects the commonest of all the rices; to show how selfishness 
propagates itself, and to what a grim giant {t may grow from small begtuntngs." 
Another object was to call attention to the want of sunitary improvements in the 
neglected dwellings of the poor,” and to the system of ahip-hospitals aud the 
character of workbouse nurses. 

Frosh from his travels in the United States, and with « vivid recollection of the 
people he had met and the places he had seen, and especially of what was most 
Hdlealous and most censurable in Amerloan life and manners, Mr, Dickens yleld- 
ed to the temptation of making his hero follow his footsteps, and pass through = 
varloty of experiences, —some trying, and some laughable, but all of them unneors- 
sury to the development of the main plot, and constituting a mere episode in the 
Mory, though, it must bo confessed, an exceedingly humorous end interesting 
‘one. Of thls portion of the book Mr. Dickens says in his preface, that It “is ta 
no other respect a caricature than as it Is an exhibition, for the most part, of the 
fudicrous side of the American charncter,—of that side which is, from its ver 
nature, the most obtrusive, and the most IIkely to be seen by such travellers ax 
young Martin and Mark Tapley. At I have never, in writing fiction, had ang 
Aisposition to soften what 1s ridiculous or wrong at home, T hope (and believe 
that the good-humored people of the United States are not generally disposed te 
quarrel with me for carrylag the same usage abroad.” Our author's American 
readers did, however, quarrel with him very generally and very seriously, as they 
bad presionsly done for bia strictures on thelr social neages and political inatitations, 


w his“ American Notes.” But, as Emerson says (in his essay on“ Behavior," ty 
216 




















Martin Cpuzzlewlt. 217 


“The ConJuct of Life™), “the lesson was not quite lost: It held bad manners 
up, #0 that the ehurls could see the deformity” On his second vislt to the United 
Btates, Mr. Dickens frankly and gracefully, and “ns an act of plain Justioe and 
honor," bore testimony (in his farewell epeceh at New York, April 18, 1868) to the 
astonlahing progress which had taken place in the country during the quarter of a 
‘century that had elapsed since his first visit. Tt ism duty,” he sald, “with white 
‘Thenceforth charge myself, not only here, but on every multable occasion whatso 
‘ever and wheresoerer, to express my high and grateful sense of my second recep 
Hon In America, and to bear my honest testimony to the natfonal generosity ano 
mognanimity; also to declare how astounded I have been by the amazing 
changes that I have seen around me on every #lide,—changes moral, changes 
physical, changes in the amount of land subdued and peopled, changes tn the rise 
of vast new cities, changes in the growth of older cities almost out of recognition, 
changes in the graces and amenities of life, changes In the press, without whose 
advancement no advancement can be made anywhere. Nor am I, believe me, #0 
‘arrogant as to suppose, that, In five and twenty years, there have been no changes 
4m me, and that f had nothing to learn, and no extreme Impressions to correct 
‘when I was here first." 





CHARACTERS INTRODUCED. 


Bailey, junior. The “boots” at Mrs. Todgers's “ Commercial 
Boarding-house ;" a small boy with a large red head, and no nose 
to speak of. He afterwards bocomes “Tiger” to Tigg Montague, 
and finally engages with Mr. Sweedloplipe in the barber-business. 
(Ch. viii, x, xi, xxvi-xxix, xxxviii, xli, xlii, xlix, lii.) 

Bevan, Mr. A sensible, warm-hearted Massachusetts man, whom 
Martin Chuzzlewit mects at his boarding-house in New York, and 
who afterwards advances him money to enable him to return to 
England. (Ch. xvi, xvii, xxi, xxiii, xxxiy, xliii.) 

Bib, Julius Washington Merryweather. An American 
gentleman in the lumber line; one of a committee that waits upon 
the Honorable Elijah Pogram. (Ch. xxxiv.) 

Brick, Jefferson. The war :orrespondent of “The New-York 
Rowdy Journal." (Ch. xvi.) He is introduced by Colonel Diver, 
the editor of the newspaper, to Martin Chuzzlewit, who had at first 
supposed him to be the colonel’s son. 


“My war correspondent, alr, Mr. Jefferson Brick!” 
‘Martian could not help starting at this unexpected announcement aud the 
onsclousness of the irretrierabie mistake he had nearly made, 
» 











218 Ede Dickens Bietfonarp. 


Mr. Brick seomed pleased with the sensation he produced upon the stranger, 
and shook bands with him with an alr of patronage designed to reassure him, 
‘snd to let him know that there was no oecasion to be frightened; for he (Brick) 
‘would a't hurt him. 

“You have heard of Jefferson Brick. T eq, sir," quoth the colonel with « 
‘smile, “England has heard of Jefferson Brick. Europe has beard of Jeferso1, 
Brick. Let me seo. When did you leave England, alr?” 

© Five wooks ago," sald Martin. 

“Five weeks ago,” repented the colonel thoughtfully, as he took his seat upew: 
the table, and swung his legs. “Now, let mo axk you, str, which of Mr. Brick's 
‘the most obnoxious to the Lritlsb parliament 


“Upon my word," said Martin, “I7— —* 

“T have reason to know, slr,” Interrupted the colonel, “ that the aristocratie 
clreles of your country quail before the name of Jefferson Brick. T should like 
to be informed, sir, from your lips, which of his sentiments has struck the dead- 
Mest blow" — 

‘At the hundred heads of the Hydra of Corruption now grovelling in the 
‘dust beneath the lance of Reason, and spouting up.to the walversal arch above 
‘us ite sangulnary gore," eald Mr, Brick, puttlag on a little blue eloth cap with » 
‘glazed front, and quoting his last article, ' 
‘The Uibation of freedom, Brick,” hiated the colonel. 

“Must wometimes bo quatfed in blood, colonel,” erled Brick. And when he 
sald blood," he gave the great palr of solssors a sharp snap, as if they sald 
hilood too, and were quite of hls oplaion. 

‘This dota, they both looked at Martin, pausing for a reply. 

“ Upon my life,” said Martin, who had by this time quite recovered his usual 
coolness, “I can’t give you any satisfactory information about it; forthe trath 
Ma, that 1” — 

“Stop1” cried the colonel, glancing sternly st his war correspondent, and 
giving his head one shake after every sentence. “That you never heard of Jef- 
ferson Brick, #ir; thut you never rend Jefforson Brick, sir; that you never saw 
“The Rowdy Journal? sir; that you nover knew, sir, of its mighty influence 
upon the cabinets of Europe. Yes!” 

«That '* what I was about to observe, certalnly,” sald Martin. 

“ Keep cool, Jefferson," ald the colonel gravely, “Don’t bast! © you Buro- 
peans! Arter that let "shave a glass of wine!” 


Brick, Mrs. Jefferson. His wife, and the mother of “two young 
Bricks.” She is taken by Martin Chuzzlewit for a “little gitl;” but 
he is put right by Colonel Diver, who informs him that she is a 
“matron.” (Ch. xvi, xvii.) 

Buffum, Mr. Oscar. A member of a committee that waits upon 
the Honorable Elijah Pogram for the purpose of requesting the 
honor of his company “nt a little le-Veo” in the ladies’ ordinary at 
the National Hotel. (Ch. xxiv.) 

Bullamy. A porter in the service of the Anglo-Bengalee Disinter 
ested Loan and Life Insurance Company. (Ch. xxvil, li.) 


‘When he sat upon a seat erected for him in a corner of the office, with his 
glazed hat hanging on ® peg over his head, tt was impossible to doubt the re 


























Martin Chuyslevott. 219 


/ mpoctability of the concern Tt went on doubling ttself with every square tneb 
‘of hin red walsteoat, until, Ike the problem of the ualls in the barse’s shoes, the 
total became enormous. Teople had been known to apply to effect an insuranoe 
‘on their lives for a thousand pounds, and, looking at him, to beg, before the form 
‘of propoxal was filled up, that it might be made two. And yet he was not = 
giont. His coat was rather small than otherwise, ‘The whole charm was in his 
waistcoat. Respectability, competence, property in Bengal, or anywhere ele 
responsibility to any amount on the part of the company that employed him, — 
‘wore all expressed in that one garment, 


Choke, General Cyrus. An American militia general, whose 
acquaintance Martin Chuzzlewit makes in a railway car. He is a 
member of the Eden Land Corporation, belongs to the Watertoast 
Association of United Sympathizers, and, taken all in all, is “one 
of the most remarkablé men in the country." (Ch. xxi.) 

Chollop, Major Hannibal. A man who calls upon Martin 
Chuzzlewit at Eden. (Ch, xxiii, xxiv.) 


He was usually described by his friends {a the South and West as “a eplen- 
did sample of our na-tive raw material, slr,” and was much értoemed for his 
derotion to rational liberty, for the better propagation whereof he usually car 
ried a brace of revolving plstols in his coat-pocket, with seven barrels aplece. 
Me also carriod. amongst other trinkets a swordsttick, which he colied his 
“Ticker” and a great knife, which (for he was a man of a pleasant tarn of 
hunior) he called “ Ripper,” tn allusion to Its asofulness as moans of ventilate 
ing tho stomach of any adversary in aclose contest, te had used these weapons 
with distinguished effect in several instances (all duly chronicled in the news- 
papers), and was greatly beloved for the gallant manner fn which he had  jobbed 
‘out™ the eyo of one gentleman as he was in the act of knocking at his own 
streetdoor, 





Preforring. with a view to the gratification of bis tickling and ripping 
fancies, to dwell upon the outakirts of roclety, and In tho more remote towns 
‘and cities, he was in the habit of emigrating from place to place, and establishing 
tn each somo business, —usually a newspaper,—which he presently sold; for 
the most part closing the bargain by challenging, stabbing, pistolling, or gou- 
ging the new editor, bofore he had quite taken possession of the property. 

He had come to Eden ou a speculation of thls kind, but had abandoned ft, and 
‘was about to leave, He always introduced himself to strangore as # worshipper 
of freedom; wax the consistent advocate of Lyrch law and slavery; and nym 
Hably recommended, both in print and speech, the * tarring and feathering" of 
any unpopular person who differed from himself. Ie called this “planting the 
tandard of clviltzation in the wilder gardens of My country.” 


The Honorable Elijah Pogram thus culogizes him to Martin: — 


‘Our follow-countryman [+ » model of a man, quite fresh from Natur’ mould! 
++. He {sa truo-born ohild of thi« free hemisphere! Verdant as the mountains 
of our country, bright and Mowing as our mineral leks, unspfled by withering 
conventionalities ax alr our broad and boundless perearerst Rough he may bo- 
0 wir our barrs. Wild he may be: +o sir our buffalers, But he is child of 

< Natur? and a child of Freedom; and his boastful answer to the despot and 
‘Whe tyrant fs, that bls bright hore {s 1 the settin' aun, 




















220° Ebe Dickens DBictlonarp. 


Chuffey, Mr. Clerk to Anthony Chuzzlewit; a little, bleareyed, 
weazen-faced old man, looking as if he had been put away and 
forgotten half a century before, and had just been found in a lum- 
ber closet, He hardly understands any one except his master, but 
always understands him, and wakes up quite wonderfully when Mr. 
Chuzzlewit speaks to him. (Ch. xi, xvili, xix, xxv, xxvi, xlvi, 
xlviii, xlix, li, liv.) 

Chuzzlewit, Anthony. Father of Jonas, and brother of Martin 
Chuzzlewit the elder; an old man with a face wonderfully sharponed 
by the wariness and cunning of his life. (Ch. iv, viii, xii, xviii, 
xix.) 

Chuzzlewit, George. A gay bachelor, who claims to be young, 
but has been younger. He is inclined to corpulency, over-feeds 
himself, and has such an obvious disposition to pimples, that the 
bright spots on his cravat, and the rich pattern on his waist- 
coat, and even his glittering trinkets, seem to have broken out 
upon him, and not to have come into existence goyfortably. (Ch. 
iy, liv.) 

Chuzzlewit, Jonas. Son of Anthony, and nephew of old Martin 
Chuzzlewit; a sly, cunning, ignorant young man, who is in pecu« 
niary matters a miser, and in instinct and disposition a brute. His 
rule for bargains is, “Do other men; for they would do you.” “That's 
the true business-precept,” he says. “ All others are counterfeit.” 
‘Tired of the prolonged life of his father, and eager to come into pos- 
session of his property, he attempts to poison him, and believes that 
he has succeeded, as the eld man dies shortly afterwards, The truth 
is, however, that his attempt has been discovered by his intended vie~ 
tim and an old clerk named Chuffey, who privately remove the poison. 
But the thought of his son's ingratitude and unnatural wickedness 
breaks old Anthony's heart; and in a few days he dies, having firre 
made Chuifey promise not to reveal the dreadful seeret, Jonas 
now marries Mercy, the youngest daughter of Mr. Pocksniff, and 
treats her very cruelly. ving that he has murdered hia 
father, and that the secret has in some way become known to Mon+ 
tague Tigg, a swindling director of the Anglo-Bengalee Disine 
terested Loan and Lif Insurance Company, Jonas is forced, ag 
a condition of his secrecy, not only to come into the company hime 
self, but to pay large sums to Tigg as hush-moncy. At last, goaded 
to desperation, he follows Tigg into the country, where he waylays 
and mnrders him. ‘The deed, though very cunningly devised and 


. 











Martin Chuzzlewit. 221 


executed, is soon traced to him, and he is arrested, but poisons him- 
self on his way to prison. (Ch. iv, viii, xi, xvili-xx, xxiv, xxvi- 
xxviii, xxxviil, xl-xlil, xliv, xlvi-xlviii, li.) 

Chuzzlewit, Martin, senior. A very rich and eccentric old 
gentleman; brother of Anthony, and grandfather of young Martin. 
He is nearly driven mad by the fawning servility and hollow pro- 
fessions of his covetous relatives, and even quarrels with and dis 
inherits his grandson, the only one among them all for whom he 
has over cared. Receiving a visit from his cousin Mr. Pecksniff, 
‘under whose assumption of honest independence he instantly detects 
the selfishness, deceit, and low design of his true character, he takes 
‘occasion to say, — 

“ Judge what profit you are Ifke to guin from any repetition of this vislt, and 
Jeave me. Ihave so corrupted and changed the nature of all thore who have 
‘ever attended on me, by breeding avaricious plots and hopes within them; I 
‘have engendered such domestic strife and discord by tarrying even with mem- 
ders of my own fumily; T hare been such a lighted torch in peaceable homes, 
Kindllng up all the inflammable gases wnd vapors in thelr moral atmosphere, 
‘which, but for me, might have proved harmless to the end,—thnt I have, T may 
say, fled from all who knew mo, and, taking refuge in secret places have lived, 
of lute, the life of one who is hunted. ‘The young girl whom you Just now saw 
«+. 180 orphan-child, whom, with one steady purpose, I have bred and edu- 
eatod, or, if you prefer the word, ndopted. For a year or more sbe hax been my 
constant companion, and she Is my only one. I have taken, as she knows, a 
solemn oath never to leave her aixpence when I die; but, while I live, T make her 
an annual allowance, not extravagant {n ite amount, and yet not stinted. ‘There 
fs m compact between us that no term of affectiounte cajolery shall ever be 
addressed by either to the other, but that ahe shall call me always by my Chris- 
tian name, I her by hers, She is bound to mo in life by ties of interest, and 
losing by my death, and having no expectation disappointed, will mourn It, per- 
haps; though for that I care little. ‘This ts the only kind of friend I have or will 
hare, Judge from such premises what a profitable hour you have spent in eom- 
ing here, and leave mo, to return no more.” 


Notwithstanding this plain speaking, the old man, for purposes 
‘of his own, goes to reside with Mr. Pecksniff, and pretends to be 
entirely governed by his wishes, When young Martin returns from 
America, rendered humble and penitent by his hard experience, he 
sees Pecksniff drive him from the door, and yet does not interpose 
word. But the time soon comes, when having thoroughly tested 
both, and proved his grandson truc, and Pecksniff false, he makes 
ample amends to the former, and awards the latter his just deserts, 
(Ch. iii, iv, x, xxiv, xxx, xxxi, xliii, Hiv.) 

Chuzzlewit, Martin, the younger. The hero of the story; 
‘a rather wild and selfish young man. He has been brought uo by 
‘a rich grandfather, who has intended making him his heir. But 

















222 She Dickens Mietlonarp. 


the young man presumes to fall in love with a young lady (Mary 
Graham) of whom the old man does not approve, and he is therefore, 
disinherited, and thrown upon his own resources. He goes to study 
with Mr. Pecksniff, with a vague intention of becoming a civil engin- 
eer, His grandfather, upon ascertaining this fact, intimates to Mr. 
Pecksniff (who is his cousin), that he would find it to be for his own 
advantage, if he should turn young Martin out of the house. This 
Mr. Pecksniff’ immediately proceeds to do; and Martin again finds 
himself whthout money, or the means of obtaining it, Ho determines 
to go to America, and accordingly makes his way to London, where 
he meets Mark Tupley, who has saved a little from his wages at the 
Blac Dragon, and who wishes to accompany him. They tako passage 
on the packet-ship “ Screw,” going orer as stecrage-passengers, but 
with sanguine expectations of amassing sudden wealth in the New 
World. Soon after their arrival at New York, Martin is led into 
investing the little money remaining to himself and Mark in a lot 
of fifty acres in the thriving city of Eden, in a distant part of tho 
country; and they set out for it immediately. They find the city — 
which on paper had looked so fair, with its parks and fountains, ita 
banks, factories, churches, and public buildings of all kinds—adreary 
and malarious marsh, with a dozen log-cabins comprising the whole 
settloment. Worse than all, Martin is seized with fever and ague, and 
barely escapes with his life; and, before he is fairly convalescent, 
Mark is also stricken down. When they are at last able to move 
about a little, they turn their faces toward England, and after some 
timearrive at home. Martin seeks an interview with his grandfather, 
but finds that Mr. Pecksniff’s influence over him is paramount, and 
that not even a frank and manly avowal of error, coupled with a ro- 
quest for forgivencss, avails to revive the old love, or to save him from 
the indignity of being ordered out of the house. Miss Graham, how- 
ever, has remained faithful to him ; and with this one comfort he again 
turns his face towards London, to make his way in the great world 
‘as best he can, In the sequel he finds, much to his surprise, that his 
grandfather, distracted by suspicions, doubts, and fears, has only 
been probing Peeksniff, and accumulating proof’ of his duplicity, 
and that, all through their separation, he bimself has remained the 
old man’s favorite, (Ch, v—vii, xii-xvii, xxi, xxi, xxxili-xxxy, xliii, 
xlviii-t, lii-liv.) 

Croero, A negro truckman in New York, formerly a slave. (Ch 
xvil.) 


Codger, Miss. A Western literary celebrity. (Ch. xxxiv.) 











HMactin Chusplewet. 223 


* 

Crimple, David. A pawnbroker, afterwards tapster at the Lom- 
bards’ Arms, and then secretary of the Anglo-Bengaloo Disinterested 
‘Loan and Life Insurance Company. His name wasoriginally Crimp; 
but as this was susceptible of an awkward construction, and might 
be misrepresented, he altered it to Crimple. (Ch. xiii, xxvii, xxviii, 
sxlix, li.) 

Diver, Colonel, Editor of “ The New-York Rowdy Journal ;"a sal- 
Jow man, with sunken cheeks, black hair, small twinkling eyes, and 
an expression compounded of vulgar cunning and concelt. (Ch. xv.) 

Dunkle, Doctor Ginery. One of a committee of citizens that 
waits upon the Honorable Elijah Pogram to request the honor of his 
company at a little le-Vee at the National Hotel. Although he has 
the appearance of « mere boy with a very shrill voice, he passes for 
“a gentleman of great poetical elements.” (Ch. xxxiv.) 

Fips, Mr. A lawyer, who, as the agent of an unknown person (old 
Martin Chuzzlewit), employs Tom Pinch as a kind of librarian and 
secretary. (Ch. xxxix, xl, lili.) 

Fladdock, General. A corpulent American militia officer, 
starched and punctilious, to whom Martin Chuzzlewit is introduced 
at the Norris's in New York, as having come over from England in 
the same vessel with himself. ‘The general does not recognize him ; 
and Martin is obliged to explain, that, for the sake of economy, he 
had been obliged to take passage in the steerage, confession 
which at once stamps him as a fellow of no respectability, who has 
gained an entrance into good society under false pretences, and 
whose acquaintance must forthwith be disavowed. (Ch. xv, xvii.) 

Gamp, Sairey. A professional nurse. 

‘She was a fut old woman, this Mrs. Gamp, with a husky voice and # moist 
eye, which she had a remarkable power of turning up, and only showing the 
white of it. Having very little neck, it cost her some trouble to look over her- 
telf, If ono may say #0, nt thoso to whom she talked. She wore avery rusty 
binok gown, rather the worse for snuff, and a shaw! and bonnet to correspond. 
In these dilapidated articles of dress sho had, on principle, arrayed herself, time 
‘out of mind, on such occasions as the present; for thie at once expressed « 
decent umount of veneration for the deceased, and tuvited the next of kin to 
present her with a fresher sult of weeds, —an appeal so frequently suceessfl, thas 
‘the very fotch and ghost of Mrs. Gamp, bonnet and all, might be seen hangiig 
Up, any hour in the day, in at Teast a dozen of the second-hand-clothes shops 
abont Holborn. The face of Mrs. Gamp—the nose In particular—was some- 
‘what red and swollen; und it was difticalt to enjoy her soclety without becoming 
conscious ofa smell of spirits. Like most persons who have attained to great 
‘eminence in thelr profession, sho took to hers very kindly; Insomach, that, wet 

. tiog aside her natural predilections aa ® womun, abe went to o tyingin ore 
\aylng-out with equal sest and relish 








2m Ee Wickens Mictlonacp. 


> 

‘Mrs. Gamp is represented as constantly quoting or referring to a 
certain Mrs. Harris—a purely imaginary person —as an authority 
for her own fancies and fabrications. Thus, when Mr. Pecksniff 
says to her, that he supposes ehe has become indifferent to the dis 
tress of surviving friends around the bed of the dying and of the 
dead, and that “use is second nature,” — 

© You may well say second nater, sir," returned that lady. © Ono's frat ways is 
to find rich things m trial to the footings, and so Isonc’s lasting custom, If it was 
at for the nerve a little sip of liquor gives me (E never was able to do more than 
taste ft), T never could go through with what X sometimes has to do. ‘Mrs. 
‘Harris,’ I says at the very Inst case ws ever F acted in, which it was but a young 
person, —* Mrs. Harris,’ Isays, ‘leave the bottle on the chimley-piece, and don’t 
‘ask me to take none, bat Jet me put my lips to it when Tam so dispoged, and 
then I will do what I’m engaged to do, acoording to the best of my ability.’ — 
“Mrs. Gamp,' she says in answer, ‘if ever there was a sober creetur tobe got at 
eighteen-pence a day for working-poople, and three and six for gentlefolks 
(‘night-watching,’" «ald Mrs. Gamp with emphasis, “* being a extra charge’), 
“you are that {nwallable person.’ —~' Mrs. Harris,’ I says to her, ‘don't name the 
charge; for, if T could afford to lay all my fellercrecturs out for nothink, Twould 
gladly do It; sich i# the love I bears ‘em, ut what I always says to them ax 
has the management of matters, Mrs. Harris?” (here she kept her ese on 
‘Mr. Pecksnlif), “*be they gents or be they ladies, Is, don’t ask me whether 1 
‘won't take none, or whether Iwill, but leave the bottle on the chimley-plece, 
and let me put my lips to ft when Tam #0 dlapoged.’ " 

(Ch. xix, xxv, xxvi, xxix, xl, xlvi, xlix, li, li.) See Pero, Bersey, 
Gander, Mr. A boarder at Mrs. Todgers's. (Ch. ix.) 
Graham, Mary. Companion of old Martin Chuzzlewit, and be- 
trothed to young Martin, whom she finally marries. 

She was very young (apparently not more than seventeen), timid snd stirink+ 
cng in her manner, and yet with a greater sbare of self-possession aud controt 
over her emotions than usually belongs to a far more advanced period af female 
life, ... She was short in stature, and her figure was elight, ax became her 
years; but all the ebarme of youth and maldenhood set {t off, and clustered om 
her gentlo brow. 

(Ch. ili, v, vi, xxiv, xxx, xxi, xxxili, xliii, 1ii, 

Groper, Colonel. One of a committee who wait upon the Hon- 
orable Elijah Pogram to request his attendance at a le-Vee at the 
National Hotel, given to him by the citizens. (Ch. xxxiv.) 

Hominy, Mrs, A literary celebrity introduced to Martin Chuz 
zlawit. She is “one of our chicest spirits, and belongs toc one 
of our most aristocratic families.” (Ch. xxii, xxiii, xxiv.) 

Iezard, Mr. One of the deputation of citizens who beg the attend- 
ance of the Honorable Elijah Pogram at a little le-Vee at eight 
o'clock in the evening at the National Hotel. (Ch. xxiv.) 

Yack. Driver of a stage-coach plying between London and Salix 
bury. (Ch. xxxvi) 











Martin Epuzslewlt. 225 


Jane. Mr. Pocksniff’s female servant, (Ch, xxxi.) 

Jinkins, Mr. ‘The oldest boarder at Mrs. Todgers's; a gentleman 
of a fashionable turn, who frequents the parks on Sundays, and 
knows a great many carriages by sight. (Ch. ix~xi, liv.) 

Jobling, Doctor John, Medical officer of the Anglo-Beagalee 
Disinterested Loan and Life Insurance Company. (Ch. xxvii, 
xxviii, xxvii, xli.) 

Jodd, Mr. A member of the committee of citizens that waits 
upon the Honorable Elijah Pogram to solicit the favor of his com- 
pany at a le-Vee at the National Hotel. (Ch. xxiv.) See 
Pooram, 

Kedgick, Captain. Landlord of the National Hotel, at which 
Martin Chuzzlewit stays on his way to Eden, and also on his re- 
turn+to New York. (Ch. xxii, xxxiv.) 

Kettle, Lafayette. An inquisitive, bombastic American, whom 
Martin Chozzlewit meets while travelling; secretary of the Water- 
toast Association of United Sympathizers. (Ch. xxi, xxii.) 

Lewsome, Mr, A young man bred a surgeon, and employed by 
‘a general practitioner in London as an assistant. Being indebted 
to Jonas Chuzzlewit, he sells him the drags with which old An- 
thony Chuzzlewit is poisoned, though he has reason to suspect the 
‘use which will be made of them. After the death of the old man, 
lie makes a voluntary confession of his agency in the matter; being 
impelled to do so by the torture of his mind and the dread of 
death caused by a severe sickness. (Ch. xxv, xxix, xlviii, 11.) 

Gupin, Mrs, Landlady of the Blue Dragon Inn at Salisbury; 
afterwards the wifi: of Mark Tupley. 

‘Tho mistress of the Blue Dragon wax In outward appearance Just what « 
Jandiady should be,— broad, buxom, comfortable, and good-looking, with a face 
‘of clear red and white, which by its jovial aspect at once bore testimony to her 
hearty participation in the good things of the Jarder and cellar, and to thelr 
‘thriving and healthful {nfuencos, She was n widow, bat years ago hnd passed 
through her state of weeds, and burst into dower again ; and in full bloom she was 
‘now, With roses on her ample skirts, and roses On her bodice, roses in her eap, 
roses In her cheeks, find rores, worth the gathoring too, on her lips, for 
‘that matter. She hi il a bright black eye and Jet binck halr; was comely, 


Aimpled, plump, and tight as a gooseberry; and, though she was not exactly 
‘what the world calls young, you may make an affidavit, on trust, before any 

















‘mayor or magistrate in Christendom, that there are a great many young ladies 
In the world (blessings on them, one and all!) whom you would n°t like half aa 
well, or admire half a1 much, os the beaming hostess of the Blue Dragon. 





(Ch. iii, iv, vii, xxxi, xxxvi, xxxvil, slii’, xliv, li.) 








226 Che Dickens Dictlonarg. 


Moddle, Mr. Augustus, The “youngest gentleman” at Mra 
‘Todgors’s Commercial Boarding-House, He falls desperately in 
love with Miss Mercy Pecksnifl, and, becoming very low-spirited 
after her marriage to Jonas Chuzzlewit, is entrapped into an on- 
gagement with her sister Charity, but loses his courage, and breaks 
his word at the last moment, sending the injured fain one a letter 
to inform her that he is on his way to Van Dicmen’s Land, and 
‘that it will be useless for her to send in pursuit, as he is determined 
never to be taken alive. (Ch. ix-xi, xxxii, xxxvii, xlvi, liv.) 

Montague, Tigg. See Tiaa, Monraaus, 

Mould, Mr. An undertaker; a little bald elderly man, with a 
faco in which a queer attempt at melancholy was at odds with a 
smirk of satisfnction. (Ch. xix, xxv, xxix, xxxviil.) 

Mould, Mrs, His wife. (Ch. xxv, xxix.) 

Mould, The two Misses. Their daughters; fair, round, and 
chubby damsels, with their peachy cheeks distended as though they 
ought of right to be performing on celestial trumpets, (Ch. xxv.) 

Mullit, Professor. A very short gentleman, with a red nose, 
whom Martin Chuzzlewit meets at Mrs, Pawkins’s boarding-house 
in Now York, He is a professor “of education,” a man of “fine 
moral elements,” and author of some powerful pamphlets, written 
under the signature of Suturb, or Brutus reversed. (Ch. xvi.) 

Nadgett, Mr. ‘Tom Pinch’s landlord, employed by Montagoo 
‘Tigg as a detective. 

He was ashort, dricd-up, withered old man, who ¢cemed to have neoreted 
hls very blood; for nobody would have given him credit for the possession of 
six ounces of It in hla whole body. How he lived was a secret; where he lived 
was a scoret; and even what he was was @ secret, In bis musty old pocket~ 
book he earried contradictory cards, in somo of which he called himself a coal- 
‘merchant, in others a wine-merchant, in others a commlssion-agent, In others 
collector, In others an nccountant; aa if he really did n’t know the seoret hime 
self, He was always keeping appointments in the city, and the other mam 
nover seemed to come. 

(Ch, xxvii, xxviii, xxviii, xl, xli, xlvii, li) 


Norris, Mr. A Now-York gentlems 
fashionable ; a sentimental abolitionist, and “a very good fellow in 
his way,” but inclined to set up on false pretences,” and ridicu 
lously afraid of being disgraced by moneyless acquaintances, (Ch 





wealthy, aristocratic, and 











His wife; much older and more faded than she 
ought to have looked. (Cb. xvii.) 




















MB PECKSNIVY AND HIS DAUGHTERS 


Bertin Shayy cen, we 


Norzis, The two Misses. Rete eee 
cather teraty, beth very shmden, but wary prey, (Ch. 

Pawkins, Major. A Now-York poltician; MS ee 
Sriniller)}, an oratar anda man of the poaple, and a gemoral Woalin, 


(Cb. xi)- 
haces His wit; keaper of a boanting hoa, O) 


eden ec. A resident of Salisbury ; ostensibly an architect 
Se ners Sere bo tal sree Solel ER OD 
and his surveying was limited to the extensive prrepect from 
windows of his house, 


good sentiments In his tnalde, Tn this partiondar re wo ike the trl th Ue 
fairy-tale, except that, if they were not actual diamonds while Feil Cron hi Tl, 
‘they were the very brightest paste, anid showe prowigtowsly, He wna Wowk 
man, —fuller of virtoous precept than & copphook, Maine prenpihe 

Uikened him to @ direction-poot, which fs always telllnge Hho way 10 # pila, Mich 
never goes there; bet there were his enemies, the pio heed oant by tite 
ess: that wns ail. Ils very throat was moral, You gave a good deal 
‘You looked over a very low fence of white eravat (selverwar ive iimt Wail rer bre 
hold the the, for he fastened It behind), and there Ut lay, « valley between Hii 
Jutting heights of collar, serene and whiskorless befvre you. Tt Wenner 1 Hay, 
‘on the part of Mr. Peckyulf, «'Thore i uo deception, nos wnd gontlewnein ll 
Ja peace; a holy calm pervades mo” fo dit bis hairy Just grlantert with wu rou 
gray, which was all brushed off hiv forehead, and stood bolt upright, oF elyrhily 
drooped In kindred action with hils henry eyelids, So did Ile person, welleh wae 
sleek, though free from corpulency, Ro did tle snmnier, wiilale wna eo wind ethys 
In nord, even his plaln black pult, ani tate of widower, mid dawiug yale 
eve-glaes. —all tended to the eame purporr, aint erlod alovil, “ Helald (he moral 
Pecksnliri* 

‘Mr. Pecksnlit’ professlonal engagements were almont, 1f not sutirely, oi 
fined to the reception of pupils; for tho collection of ren ‘ale 
he oceasiorally varied and relieved hie gen 
etrietly architectural employment, Hs genta 








% 
guardians, and pocketing premiums, A young gentlemun’s prewilin being 
paid, and the young gentleman come lo Mr. Poekanlit'4 fone, Mr) Meek 








family Hesented hitn liiglily on his parents ur gumntians, ws (he eaen Mlglit 
‘be; aml tarned tim Joove In w epaedous room on tive twogeale Arewl j wivers fit 
the company of certain drawing bomrds, puraliet rulers, very atliFirgaeed ew 
arses, end two, of, perhaps, three, other young pratinusen, le nprored iid 
sell for three or five years, according to bie artictes, te tuning elevations of 
Rallatury Cathedral from every poseltile pesine rf shat, ant li eomelenenhig fie 
the air a vert quantity of exctles, harass of parliament, mi onlver pevldle Wath 
oe 














228 The Dickens Mictlonary. 


‘Mr. Pocksniff is a cousin of old Martin Chuzzlewit's, who being 
very ill, a general council and conference of bis relatives is held at 
‘Mr. Pecksniff'’s house in order to devise means of inducing him to 
listen to the promptings of nature in the disposal of his large prop. 
erty. The meeting is far from being harmonious; and Mr, Pecksniff 
is compolled to listen to some very plain truths, Mr. Anthony Chuzzle. 
wit telling him bluntly not to be a hypocrite. 


“4 what my good slr?” demanded Mr, Pecksnlt. 

“4 A hypocrite." 

“Charity, my dear,” sad Mr, Pecksntf # when ¥ take my chamber candlestick. 
tought, remind me to be more than usually particular in praying for Mr. Anthony 
Chuzzlewit, who has done mo an injustice,” 


Meeting Mr. Chuzzlewit in a stage-coach, some time afterwards, 
Mr. Pecksniff takes occasion to remark, incidentally, but cuttingly 
“I may be a hypocrite; but I am not « brute.” 


“Pooh, pooh!” snld the old man. * What signifies that word, Pecksnlif? Hyp- 
ocritet Why, we are all hypocrites. We were all hypocrites t? other day. Iam 
sure I felt that to be agreed upon among us, or I should n't hare called you one. 
‘We should not have beon there wt all If we had not been hypocrites, The only 
difference between you and the reat was— Shall I tell you the difference between 
‘von nnd the rest now, Pecksnlit ?” 

“If you please, my good «irs If you please.” 

“ Why, the annoying quality in you Is,” said the old ran, “ that you never have 
‘® confederate or partner in your Juggling. You would decelve everybody, eren 
those who practise the same art; and haves way with you, as tf you —he, he, he 
as if you really believed yourself. 17d lay a handsome wager now," ald the 
old man, “if Jali wagers (which I don't, and never did), that you seen sa seteee: 
ances by a tacit understanding, even before your own daughters here. 


During the journey, Pecksniff imbibes copious refreshment from a 
brandy-bottle, and is thereafter moved to give utterance to various 
moral precepts and weighty sentiments, 


“What are we,” said Mr. Pocksnlil, “but coaches? Some of us are slow 
eonclies” — 

" Goodness, pat” cried Charity. 

“Some of us, I say,” resumed her parent with Increased emphasis, “are alow 
couches; some of us are fast coaches, Our Passions aro the horses, and rampant 
‘eximals tool” — 

“ Roa'ly, pat” ried both the daughters at once. “How very unpleasant!” 

“And rampant animals, too!™ repeated Mr, I'ecksniff, with #o much determt- 
sition, that he may be sald to have exhibited, st the moment, a sort of moral 
rampanzy himself ; “and Virtue ls the drag. We start from The Mother's Arms, 
and we run to The Dust Shovel.” 

When he had said this, Mr. Peckentif, being exhausted, took some further re 
freshment. When he had done that, be corked the bottle tight, with the air of a 
ian who had effvetually eorked the subject also, and went to sleep for three 
ages. 


- 























Mart(n Chuzzlewlt, 229 


Mr. Pocksniff receives young Martin Chiizzlewit into his family 
asa student, and manifests a very strong interest in him; but, on a 
hint from the elder Mr. Chuzzlewit, he contumeliously tarns him 
out of his house, and renounces him forever. ‘This he does because 
‘Martin's grandfather has expressed his desire fora better under 
standing between himeelf and Mr. Pecksniff than has hitherto ex- 
istod, and has declared his intention to attach him to himself by ties 
of interest and expectation. Systematic self-server that he is, in 
order to secure the old man’s great wealth, Mr, Pecksniff sedulously 
studies his likings and dislikings, falls in with all his prejudices, 
lies, fawns, and worms himself (as be thinks) into his favor, through 
concessions and crooked deeds innumerable, through meannesses 
and vile endurance, and through all manner of dirty ways; but in 
‘the end he finds, that, after all, bis labor has been for nought, that 
his duplicity has been fathomed to the bottom, and his servile char- 
acter thoroughly unmasked. Yet he remains the same canting 
hypocrite even in shame and discovery, and in the drunkenness and 
begyary in which he ends his days. 

According to “ Blackwood's Magazine,” “Pecksniff owed much 
of his celebrity, we believe, to his remarkable likeness to the late 
Sir Robert Peel.” But the American Publishers’ Circular for 
June 27, 1857, in announcing the fact of Mr. Samuel Carter Hall's 
intention to visit the United States for the purpose of dehvering a 
series of lectures, denied the resemblance, asserting, that — 


“Mr, Hall is eapposed to be the actual, veritable Peoksniff of * Martin Chuzzlewit.' 
1c Hobert Poot waa the original 
Of hat character; but the impression faded off, aod Mr. Samuel Carter Mall Is univers 
mally confoared to bo the man. Tho artiet' Piz * has it off, in te kent, & 
strong personal resemblance to Mr, Hall,—an unmistakable resemblance, indeed, 82 
did Dickens point him out, showing him In his family, surrounded by portraits and 
boats of himself. Afterall, though somowhat protentiogs, and aiming at passing off as 
‘A great mora) philosopher, Mr, Hall has numerous good points, -. . Mets reported to be 
‘expactal over In the fill, being engaged by an" Institution® in New York. If the bille 
De headed “Tho Original Peokenif,” curloalty will fl the house on Xho frat night.” — 
Vou tt, zavi, p. 406 
i, viil-xii, xvilinxx, xxly, xxx, xxi, x<xy, xliii, xliv, 
liv.) 
Pecksniff, Charity, called Curney. Mr. Pecksniff’s elder daugh- 
ter, betrothed to Mr. Augustus Moddle, but deserted by 
very day appointed for tue wedding, (Ch. il, iv-vi, 
xx, xxiv, xxx, xxxll, xxvii, xliv x.vi, liv.) See Movpix, Ma 


Avaustvs, 

























lis 





230 Fhe Wickens Wiettonary. 


. 

Pecksniff, Mercy, called Mrnny. His younger daughter; a 
giddy, vain, and heartless girl, and a hypocrite like her father. 

Her slmpticity snd innocence . , . were gromty—very prety + +» oS 
‘all glelishmess and playfulness and wildness and kittentsh buoyancy. She was 
the Saost arch, and #t the xame time tho most artless creature, was the young- 
ext Mixs Veckeniff, that you can possibly imagine. twas her great charm. 
Sho was too fresh and guilelees to wear combs in her halr, or to turn tt up, or 
to frizale {t, or to braid {t. She wore itin nerop,—a loosely-dlowing crop, whlch 
had so many rows of curls in ft, that the top row was only one curl. 

‘Mr. Jonas Chuzalewit, a thoroughly sordid and despicable vile 
Tain, ufter making love to her sister, abruptly proposes to herself. 
She accepts and marries him, — partly to spite her sister, and partly 
because he has money. She soon finds out that he is a brate as 
well as a rascal, and she suffers much from his cruelty ; yet —won- 
derful to relate !|—« throwing aside at once the ingrained selfishness 
and meanness of nearly thirty years,” she “becomes in less than 
two months a model of uncomplaining endurance and selflenying 
affection.” (Ch. fi, iv-vi, viii, x, xl, xx, xxil, xxiv, xvi, xxviii, 
xxxvi, xl, xlvi, xlvii, li, liv.) 

Pinch, Ruth, Governess in a wealthy brass and copper founder's 
family at Camberwell; sister to Tom Pinch; afterwards the wife 
of John Westlock. (Ch. ix, xxxvi, xxvii, xxix, xl, xlvi, xlvili, 
1, lii-iv.) 

Pinch, Tom. An ungainly, awkward-looking man, extremely 
short-sighted, and prematurely bald. He is an assistant to Mr, 
Pecksniff, for whom he has an unbounded respect, and in whose 
pretensions he has a wonderful faith; his naturo being such, that 
he is timid and distrostful of himself, and trustful of all other 
men, — even the least deserving, 


He was fur from handsome, certainly; and was dressed In m enuif-colored 
sult, of an uncouth make at the best, which, being shranken with long wear, was 
twisted and tortured into all kinds of odd shapes, But notwithstanding hit 
attire and his clumsy figure, which a great stoop in bis shoulders, and n ludi- 
crous hablt he bad of thrusting hia head forward, by no means redeemed,one 
‘would not have been disposed (untess Mfr, Pecksniff sald #9) to courider tilm « 
bad fellow by any means, He was, perhaps, about thirty; Lut he might hare 
been almost any age between sixteen and sixty, being one of those strange 
creatures who never decline into an ancient appearance, but look their oldest 
when they are very young, and get over it at once. 


‘Tom's faith in his master remains unshaken for a long time; bus 
his cyes are opened at Inst, and he sees him to be a consummare 
hypocrite and villain. Peeksniff, knowing himeelf to have beer 
found out, discharges Tom, who goes to London to try his fortung 

















ELIJAH POGRAM AND MRS. HustNY, 








Martin Shuyslewst. 231 


aud is befriended by old Martin Chuzzlewit, secretly at first, but 
afterwards openly. (Ob. ti, vil, ix, xii, xiv, xx, xxiv, xxx, xxxi, 
xxxvi-xl, xlv, xlvi, xlviii, 1, lii-liv.) 

“Perhaps Mr, Dickens's claims as 8 humourlst — member of that brotherhon/ of au- 
thors whe have contributed to the world auch delicate and graceful creations as Uccle 
‘Tohy and Bir Roger do Coverley —rest. more upon this loving and tender ploture than 
‘upon any other tndividual ereation which he has yet produced. Tom's weaknesses and 
folblex—aro we Jef ignorant of one of thom? Tot do wo regand him a whit ha less 
‘Recause wo sinile nt those gentle faults of his? Mz. Dickens has mado aketehes of more 
pretension; but he has never dons ary thing so complete, 0 good, or of vo gracetul a 
porfectlon In hiaart,as the portrait of Tom Mach." — Blackwood's Magazine, vol. Lxxvil, 
. db0 (April, 18551, 

Pip, Mr, A theatrical character, and a “capital man to know ;” 
a fiiend of Montague Tigg’s, (Ch. xxviii.) 

Piper, Professor. One of a deputation chosen to wait upon the 
Honorable Elijah Pogram, to request the honor of his company at a 
little le-Vee, at eight o'clock in the evening, in the ladies’ ordinary 
of the National Hotel. (Ch. xxxiv.) 

Pogram, The Honorable Hlijah, A member of Congress, and 
“one of the master minds of our country,” whose acquaintance Mar- 
tin Chazzlewit makes on his return from Eden to New York. He 
is especially noted as the author of the * Pogram Defiance,” which 
rose 80 much con-test and preju-dice in Europe." Mr. Pogran is 
waited on at the National Hotel by a committee of the citizens, 
and tendered a public reception, or “levee,” the same evening, 

Fach man took one slide forward as he was named, butted at the Honorable 
‘El§jab Pogram with his bead, shook hands, and slid back again. The introduc 
tions being completed, the spokesman resumed. 

“ster” 

“Mr. Pogram 1” cried the shrill boy, 

© Perhaps,” said the spokesman with a hopeless look, “you will be so good, 
‘Doctor Ginery Dunkle, as to charge yourvelf with the execation of our little 
‘offloe, sir? 

‘As there was nothing the shrill boy dexired more, he immediately stepped 








forward. 

“Mr. Pogram! Sir! A handful OF your fellow-ltizens, sir, hearing Of your 
Arrival at the National Itotel, nad fecling the patriotic charactor Of your publle 
eervices, wish, sir, to have the gratification Of beholding you, und mixing with 
+ In those moments which ®— 





“ Which air so peculiarly the lot, sir, Of our groat and happy country.” 

“Hoar!” cried Colonel Groper in a loud voice. “Good! Hear him! 
Good" 

* And therefore, sir,” pursued the doctor, “ thiey request, as A mark Of thelr 
respect, the honor of your company at a litt }e-Vee, a=, in the ladies” ordinary. 
‘at eight o'oiock." 

‘Mr. Yogram bowed, and said,— 











232 The Dickens Dictlonary. 


“«Pellow-countrymen 

Good! cried the colonel, “Hear him! Good! 

‘Mr. Pogram bowed to the colonel individually, and then resumed, — 

“ Your approbation of My labors in the common cause goes to My heart, At 
times and{n all places, in the ladies? ordinary, My friends, and in the Battle 
Field” — 

Good, very good! Hear him! Hear him!” said the colonel, 

‘The name of Pogram will be proud to Jine you. And may it, My friends, 
be written on My tomb, * Ife was @ member of the Congress of our cominow 
country, und was ac-Tive in his trust? 

“Tho Committee, sir," sald the shrill boy, “will wait upon you at five mine 
‘utes afore eight. Itake My leave, sir.” 

‘Mr. Pograim shook hands with him, and everybody else, once more; and, when 
they came back again at five minutes before elght, they sald, one by one, In m 
melancholy vole, * How do you do, sir?™ and shook hands with Mr. Pogram 
all over again, as if he had been abrond for atwelvemonth fn the mean time, aud 
they met now at a funeral. 

But by this time Mr, Pogram had frestened himself up, and had composed 
his hair and features after the Pogram statue: 40 that any one with half au eyo 
might cry out, “There he is! as he delivered the Defiance!" ‘The committee 
wore embellished also; and, when they entered the ladies’ ordinary in x body, 
there was much clapping of hands from ladies and gentlemen, accompanied by 
cries of * Pogram! Pogram!" and some standing up on chairs to nee him, 

‘The object of the popular caress looked roand the room as he walked up It, 
‘and smiled, ut the same time observing to the shrill boy, that he know something. 
‘of the beauty of the daughters of thelr common country, but had never seen it 
4n such lustre and perfection nx at that moment. Which the shrill boy put in 
the paper next day, to Elijah Pograin's great aurpriso. 

“Wo will re-quest you, sir, if you please,” said Bulfum, Inying hands on Mr. 
Pogram as if he were taking & measure for his coat, “to stand up with your 
back agin the wall right In the furthest corner, that there may be more room for 
our fellow-cit-lzens, If you could set your back right slap agiu that curtain-peg, 
air, keeping your left leg everlastingly behind the stove, wo should be fixed 
quite slick.” 

‘Mr. Pogram did us he wns told, and wedged himself into such a little corner, 
that the Pogram statue would n’t have known him, 

‘The entertainments of the evening then began. Gentlemen brought ladies 
nd brought themselves up, and brought cach other up, aud asked Elijah 

Fogram what he thought of this political question, and what he thought of that, 

and looked at iim, and looked at one another, and seemed very unhappy indeed. 

‘The Indies on the chairs looked at Elijah Pogram through thelr glasses, and sald 

audibly, “I wish he 'd speak! Why don't he epeak? Oh, do axk him to speak!” 

And Elijah Pogram Yooked sometimes at tho ladies, and sometimes elsewhere, 

delivering senatorial opinions us he was asked for them. But the great end and 

‘onyect of the meeting seemed to be aot to Jot Elijah Pogram out of the coraer 

ou any account: vo there they kept him hard and fist. 

(Ch. xxiv.) 
Vrig, Betsey. A day-nurse; a bosom-friend of Mrs. Gamp'a. 


Mrs. Prig was of the Gamp baild, but uot s0 fat; and her yore was Jooper 
nd more Jike® man's, She had also » beard. 


‘Theeo two ladies often “ nuss together, turn and turn about, one 














F 


fAactin Chuzslewlt. 238 


off, one on.” They are both engaged by John Westlock to take 
care of an acquaintance of his who lies dangerously ill at» public- 
house in, London; and, when Mrs, Gamp relieves Mrs, Prig, the 
following conversation occurs : — 


“Any din? to tell afore you goes, my dear?” asked Mrs. Gump, setting her 
bundle down inside the door, and looking affectionately at her partner, 

© The plekled salmon,” Mrs. Prig replied, “Is quite delicious. Tenn partick'ler 
recommend it. Don’t have nothink to say to the cold meat; for it tastes of the 
stable, ‘The drinks ts all good.” 

Mrs. Gamp expressed herself much gratified. 

“The physic and them things It om the drawers and mankleshelf,” «ald Mra, 
Prig curvorily, “Ho took his Inst slime draught at soven, The easy-chair an’t 
soft enough. You "ll want his piller.” 

Mrs. Gamp thanked her for these hints, and, giving her a friendly good-night, 
hheld the door open until she hind disappeared at the other end of the gallery. 


The patient at last recovers sufficiently to admit of his being re- 
moved to the country; and Mrs. Gamp and Mrs, Prig superintend the 
arrangements for the journey. 


‘He was so wasted, that it ecemed as if his bones would rattle when they moved 
him, Ils cleoks were sunken, and his eyes onnaturally large. He Iny back in 
the easy-chalr like one more dead than living, and rolled his languid eyes towards 
tho door when Mra. Gamp appeared, as painfully as If their weight alono were 
‘burdensome to move. 

“And how are wo by this time?” Mrs. Gamp observed. “We looks charm- 

* 


“ We looks a deal charminger than we are, then," returned Mrs. Prig, a little 
ebafed {n her temper. “ We got out of bed back’ards, I think; for we 'ro as cross 
astwosticks, 1 never see sich amant Ie would n't havo been washed if hed 
‘had hiaown way.” 

Sho put the soupin my mouth,” sald the unfortunate patient fecbly. 

“Could n't you keep it shut, then?” retorted Mrs, Prig. “ Who do you thinks 
41) wash one feater, and miss another. and wear one's eyes out with all manner of 
ne work of that description, for hulf » crown # day? If you wants to be tittl 
vated, you must pay accordin’.” 

0b, dear me!” cried the patient. “Oh, dear, deart* 

“There!” sald Mrs. vig, “that's the way he *s been weonducting of himself, 
balfats, ever since I got him ont of bed, if you 'll belleve It" 

“(Insteat of being grateful,” Mrs, Gamp observed, * for all our little ways. Oby 
ile for shame, slr! fe for shame |” 

Here Mrs. Prig solzed the patient by the chin, and began to rasp his unhappy 
ead with a hatr-brush. 

“Tauppose you don't like that, neither,” she observed, stopping to look at 
him. 

‘Te wns Just posslble that he did n't; for the brush was a specimen of the hardest 
tiad of instrament producible by modern art, and his very eyelids were red with 
she friction. Mra, Prig was gratified to observe tho correctness of her suppo 
sitlon, ard sali triumphantly, abe " krow'd as much." 

‘When his hair was smoothed down comfortably into his eyes, Mrs. Prig and 

20° 

















that the starched points should also Invade thore organs, und afliet them with at 
artificial ophthalmia, Lis walstooat and coat were next arranged; and as every 
button was wrenched into a wrong button-hole, and the order of his boots war 
reversed, hie presented, on the whole, rather a melancholy 

“1 don’t think it 's right," said the poor weak Invalid, “I feel ws if I was tr 
somebody else’ clothes. T’mallon one side; and you ve made one of my lege 
shorter than the other. There ‘4a bottle in my pocket too, What do you make 
me sit upon a bottle for?” 

“ Douse take the man!” cried Mrs. Gamp, drawing it forth. “If ho aln’t heen 
and got my night-bottle here! I made a little cupboard of his coat when st hung 
dehind the door, and quite forgot it, Betsey. You'll find an ingun or two, and « 
Uttle tea and sugar, in his Vother pocket, my dear, if you "ll just be good enough 
to take ‘em ont." 

Betsey produced the property {n question, together with some other artistes of 
weneral chandlcry; and Mra.Gamp transferred them to her own pocket, which 
was a speoies of nankeen panier, Refreshment then arrived in the form of 
chops and strong ale for the ladies, and a basin of beef-tea for the patient; whieh 
refoction was barely at an end when Joha Westlock appeared. 


‘Tho arrangements are finally completed ; and, a Mrs. Gamp is to 
accompany the invalid, she bids farewell to Mre, Prig. 


+ Wishin’ you lots of sickness, my darling ereetur," Mrs, Gamp observed, “and 
00d places. It won’t be long. F hope, afvre we works together, off «nd on, agnin, 
Betsey; and may our next meetin’ be at a large farnily's, where they all takes ft 
regilar, one from another, turn and turn about, and has It business-like!” 

“<I don't oare how soon it 1s,” sald Mre. Prig; * nor how many weeks it lasts.” 


‘The two friends have a falling-out at last, however. Mrs. Prig has 
‘been invited to take tea with Mrs, Gamp, on which occasion the lat 
ter informs her of another prospective job of nursing In partnership 


“Now, Sairah,” said Mrs. Prig, “Jolning business with pleasure, wot is tht 
‘caso in which you wants me?” 

Mrs. Gamp betraying in her face some intention of returning an evasive am 
Betsey added, — 
Tait Mra. Harris? 

“No, Betsuy Prig: {t w'n't,” was Mrs. Gamp’s reply. 

“Well,” said Mrs. Prig with a short laugh, ““T 'm glad of that, at any ratet?” 

“Why should you be glad of that, Betsey?" Mrs, Gamp retorted warmly 
«Sho ts unbeknown to you, except by hearsay: why should you be glad? If you 
have any think to say contralry to the character of Mrs. Harris. which well 1 
knows bebind her back, afore her face, or anywheres, ls not to be Impenged, out 
with It, Betsey. I have knowod that eweetest nod best of women," said Mra. 
Gamp, shaking her head, and shedding tears, “ever since afore her first, wblcb 
Mr. Harris, who was dreadful thmid, weat and stopped hia eare in a empty dog 
kennel, and never took his hands wway or come out once sill he was showed the 
daby, wen, bein’ took with fits, the dootor collared him, and iaid him on his back 
spon the alry stones, and she was told to ease her mind. his owls way organs 
4nd I have know'd hor, Betsey Prig, wen he has hurt hor feelin’ art by sayin’ of 
ais ninth, that {twas one too many, if not two; while that dear innocent wat 
‘wooin' th his face, which thrive it did, though bandy: but I have never know'd as 
























Martin Shuyytetrt. 235 


had oceagion to be glad, Be'sey, on account of Mrs. Harris not requiring you. 
fre sho never will, depend upon it; for her constant word In sickness is, and 
‘will be, “Send for Sairey1"” 

Daring this touching address, Mra. Prig, adroitly feigning to be the victim of 
that absence of mind which has its origin In excessive attention to one tople, 
helped herself from the tespot without appearing to observe It. Mrs. Gamp ob 
served It, however, and came to a premature elose in consequence. 

“Well, ft a’n’t her, it seems," sald Mrs. Vrig coldly. “ Who is it, then?” 

“You have heen me mention, Betecy,” Mrs. Gamp replied, after glancing 1n am 
‘expressive nnd marked manner at the teapot, “a person ax I took care on at the 
Hime as you and f was pardners, off and on, in that there fever at the Bull??” 

* Old Snuffey,” Mrs. Prig observed. 

Sarah Gamp looked at her with an ore of fire; for sho enw in this mistake of 
‘Mrs. Prig another wilful and matignant stab at that same weaknoss oF custom of 
‘hers,an ungenerous allusion to which, on the part of Betsey, had first disturbed 
thelr barmony that evening, And she saw it still more clearly, when, politely 
‘but firmly correcting that Indy by the distinct enunciation of the word “ Chuffey,” 
Mrs. Prig received thecorrection with » diabolical laugh. . . , Her countenance 
‘became about this time derisive and defant ; and sho sot with her arms folded, and 
‘one ey shut up, in a nomewhat offensive, because obtrusively {atelligent manner, 

Mrs, Gamp, obsercing this, felt it the more necbasary that Mrs. Prig should 
know hor place, and be made sensible of her exact station in soctety, as well as of 
her obligations to herself, She therefore assumed an alr of greater patronage 
‘sod {mportance as she went on to answer Mrs. Prig a little more In detail. 

© Mr. Chuffuy, Betsey," sald Mrs. Gamp, “is weak {a bia mind. Exeuge mo if 
‘I makes remark, that he may neither bo ¢0 weak as people thinks, nor people may 
pot think he is so weak as they pretends; and what I knows I knows, and what 
yon don’t you don't: 40 do not ask me, Betsey. Bat Mr. Chuffey’s friends has 
made propojals for his bein' took care on, and hns sald to me, * Mrs, Gamp, wéll you 
tndertake it? We could n’t think,’ they says, ' of trusting him to nobody but yous 
for, Sairey, you are gold as has passed the furnage. Will you undertake it at your 
uwn price, day and night, and by your own self??—*No,' I ways, *1 will not. Do 
not reckon on it. There is,’T bot one erectur in the world as I would under- 
take on sech terms; and her name is Harris. But,’ 1 Tar acquainted with 
friend, whose name is Betsey Prig, that I ean recommend, and will mssist me. 
Betsey,’ Trays, ‘1s always to be trusted, under me, and will be guided as X could 
desire?" 

‘Here Mrs. Prig, without any abatement of her offensive manner, again coun 
tmfoited abstraction of mind. and stretched out her hand to the tenpot. It was 
more than Mrs. Gamp could bear. She stopped tho hand of Mrs. Prig with her 
own, and said with great feeling, — 

4 No, Betsey! Drink fair, woterer you do!” 

‘Mrs, Prig, thus bailed, throw hervelf buck In her ehalr, and losing the same 
eye more emphatically, and folding her arms tighter, suffered her heud to roll 
slowly from side to side, while she surveyed her friend with = contemptuous 
smile. 

Mrs. Gamp resumed, — 

“Me. Harris, Betsey 

* Bother Mrs. Harris!” said Betsey Prig.- 

‘Mra. Gamp looked at her with amazement, Incredality, and iodignation; when 

Prig, shutting her eye still closer, and “olding her arms still tighter, uttered 
‘tmemorable and tremendous words :— 





























236 The Mickens Mictlonargp. 


“T don’t belteye there °s no sich a person!” 

After the utterance of which expressions, she leaned forward, and snapped 
her fingers once, twlov, thrice, each thn Dearer to the face of Mrs, Gamp; 
then rose to put on her bounet. as one who felt that there was now a gulf 
tween them which nothlag could ever bridge across, 

‘The shock of this blow was 40 violent and sudden, that Mra. Gamp sat staring 
‘at nothing with uplifted eyes, and her mouth open ns if she were gusping for 
breath, until Betaey Prig bad put on her bonnet and her shawl, and was gather- 
ing the latter about her throat, ‘Then Mrs. Gamp rose, —morally and physically 
rose, —and denounced her. 

“What!” ald Mrs. Gamp, “you bage creetur! Have I know'd Mrs. Harrie 
five and thirty year, to be told nt Inst that there aln’t no sech m person livin’? 
‘Haye I stood her friend in alt her troubles, great aud small, for it to come af last 
to vech a end as this, which her own sweet plcter banging up afore you all the 
time to shame your bragian worde? But well you may n't believe there "s no 
sech a crectur; for she would n't demena herself to look at you. And often has 
she #aid, when T have made mention of your name, which to my lnful sorrow 
I have done,—* What, Salrey Gampt debage yourself to hers? Go along with 
youl" 

“1'm agols', ma’am; alnt 1?” aald Mrs, Prig, stopping as she yald It. 

“ You had better, ma’syp,” sald Mrs, Gamp. 

“Do you know who you "re talking to, ma'am?” inquired her visitor. 

“ Aporiently,” said Mrs. Gamp, surresing her with scorn frow head to foot, “to 
Detaey Vrig,—aperiently so, Lknow her, Noone better. Goalong with you!” 

“ And you was a-going to take me under you!” erled Mrs. Prig, surveying 
Mre. Gamp from head to foot, In her turn,—* you was; was you! Oh, how 
Kind! Why, deuso take your Imperence!" said Mre. Prig, with a rapid change 
from banter to ferocity, “ what do yon mean?” 

“Go along with you!" sald Mrs. Gamp. “I blush for you.” 

+ You had better blush a little for yourself while you are about it!” eald Mrs. 
Prig. “You and yourChusfeys! What, the poor old creetur is n’t mad enough; 
lantthe? Abst” 

“He 'd very soon be mad enough if you had nny thing to do with him,» 
sald Mrs. Gamp. 

“ And thats what Twas wanted for; 14 {t2” orled Mra. Prig trlumphantly. 
“Yes. But you "il find yourself deceived, I won't go near him. We shall see 
how you get on without me. I won’t have nothink to do with him. 

“You never spoke a truer word than that!" said Mra. Gamp, “Go slong 
with you!” 


(Ch, xxv, xxix, xlix.) 

Beadder, Zephaniah. Agent of the Eden Land Corporation. 
He dupes Martin Chuzzlewit into buying, for the ridiculously small 
sum of a hundred and fifty dollars, a little lot of fifty acres in the 
city from which the company takes itt name, and which looks won- 
derfully thriving on paper, but proves to consist of a few log-houses 
in the midst of « hideous and pestilential morass. 


te 











Ho wasn gaunt man in a hage straw hat and a coat of green stuf, The 
‘weather being hot, he had no cravat, and wore his shirt-collar wide open, so that 
‘every time he spoke something was seen to twitch and jerk up n his throat, like 


i 
; 





Martin EChusslewi(t. 237 


‘the little hammers tn a harpsichord when the notes are struck. Perhaps it was 
‘the truth feebly endeavoring to leap to his lips. If #0, it never reached them. 

‘Two gray eyes lurked deep within this agent's head; but one of them had no 
‘right In It, and stood atock still, With that alde of his face he seemed to Hatem 
‘to whut the other shie was doing, Thus each profile had distinct expression; 
‘end, when the movable side was most in action, the rigid! one was in its coldest 
slate of watchfuluess, It was like turaing the man Inside out, to pass to that 
view of his features in hls liveliest mood, and see how calculating und intent 
they were, 

Each long black halr upon his head hung down as straight as any plammet- 
How; but rumpled tafts wore on the arches of his eyes, aa if the crow whose foot 
‘was deeply printed In the corners had pecked and torn them in a savage recog 
‘nition of his kindred nature as a bird of prey. 


(Ch. xxi.) : 

Simmons, William. Driver of a van, who carries Martin Chuz- 
zlewit from near Salisbury to Hounslow, after his dismissal by Mr. 
Peoksniff. (Ch. xiii.) 

Blyme, Chevy. A very poor and shiftless relative of old Martin 
Chuzzlewit, and anxious to come into a share of his property. Ho 
is a friend of Montague Tigg’s, who thus describes his character to 
Mr. Pecksniff: — 

“Every man of true genlus has his peculiarity. Sir, the peculiarity of my 
friend Slyme is, that he Is always waiting round the corner. He is perpetually 
roond the corner, air, Ite 1s round the corner at this Instant, Nov,” enld the 
gentleman, shaking hls forefinger before his nose, and planting his legs wider 
‘Apart ax he looked attentively In Mr. Pecksniif’s fice, “that Is a remarkably 
curious and Interesting trait in Mr. Slymo’s character; and. whenever Slymo's 
life comes to be written, thut tralt must be thoroughly worked out by his blog- 


rapher, oF society will not be satisfied. Observe me, society will not be satis 
fied.” 





‘With this announcement he hurried away to the outer door of the Blue 
Dragon, and almost immediately returned with a companion shorter than him- 
self, who wax wrapped (n an old blue camlet cloak with m Maing of fadod scarlet, 
‘His sharp features being much pinched and nipped by long waiting in the cold, 
‘and his straggting red whiskers and frowzy halr belng more than usually 
disherelled from the ame cause, he certainly looked rather unwholesome and 
uncomfortable than Sbakspearian or Miltonic. 

“Now,” said Mr. Tigg. clapping one hand on the shoulder of his prepossess- 
d calling Mr. Pocksniff"s attention to him with the other, “you two: 
ind relations never did agree, and never will, which ts a win 
ispensation and an inevitable thing, oF there would be none but fumlly parties, 
‘and everybody in the world would bore everybody else to death. If you wore 
‘@n good termr, I should consider you a most confoundedly unnatural pair; buty 
standing towards each other as you do, T look upon you as a couple of devilisa 
deop-thoughted fellows, who may bo reasoned with to any extent. 


(Ch. iv, vii, 1h) 
Smif, Putnam. A young and ardent clerk in a dry-goods store, 





238. Ehe Dickens Dietfonary. 


who “aspirates "for fume, and applies to Martin Chuzzlewit. for 
assistance, (Ch. xxii.) 

Sophia. A pupil of Ruth Pinch’s, called by Mrs. Todgers “a 
syrup” (meaning a seraph or a sylph); a premature little woman 
of thirteen years old, who had already arrived at such a pitch of 
whalebone and education, that she had nothing girlish about her, 
(Ch. ix, xxxvi.) 

Bpottletoe, Mr, A relative of old Martin Chuzzlewit, with testa- 
mentary designs upon his property, He is so bald, and has such 
big whiskers, that he seems “to have stopped his hair, by the sud- 
den application of some powerful remedy, in the. very act of falling 
off his head, and to have fastened it irrevocably on his fice.” (Ch. 
iv, liv.) : 

Spottletoe, Mrs, His wife; a woman “much too slim for her 
years, and of a poetical constitution.” (Ch. iv, liv.) 

Sweedlepipe, Paul, called Port. A bird-fancier, who is an 
easy shaver and a fashionable hair-drosser also ; Mrs. Gamp’s land- 
lord. 

He was a little elderly man, with a clammy cold right hand, from which even 
rabbits and birds could not remove the smell of shaving-tonp, Toll had some- 
‘thing of the bird fn his nature; not of the hawk or eagle, but of the sparrow, 
that builds in chimnoy-stacks, and Inctines to human company. He was not 
quarrelsome, though, like the sparrow; but peaceful, Tike the dove. In his 
walk he strutted; and in this respect he bore a faint resemblance to the pigeou, 
‘as well ns {nm certain proainess of speech, which might, {n (ts monotony, be 
likened to the cooing of that bied. Hewas yery inquisitive: and when he stood 
at his ehop-door in the evening-tide, watching the nelghbors, with his head on 
‘one wide, and his eye cocked knowingly, there was a dash of tho raven In him. 
‘Yet there was no more wickedness in Poll than ina robiu. Happily, too, when 
any of his ornithological properties were on the verge of going too far. they 
were quenched, dissolved, melted down, and neutratized in the barber; Just ax 
lula bald head — otherwise as the head of a shaved magpie —lost tteelf Ina wig 
of ourly black ringlets, parted on one side, and cut away almost to the crown, to 
Indicate immense capacity of Intellect, 

(Ch. xix, xxvi, xxix, xlix, 11.) 


Tacker. Foreman, and chief mourncr of Mr. Mould the under 
taker. (Ch. xix, xxv.) 


An obese person, with his waistcoat in closer connection with his legs thaw 


Is quite reconeilable with the established Ideas of grace, with that cast of fem 
tmre which fe figuratively called a bottlenose, nnd with a face covered all over 
with pimples, He had been # tender plant once upons time, but, from constant 
blowing in the fat alr of funerals, had run to seed. 


Tamaroo. An old woman in the service of Mrs, Todgurs; sue 
cessor to Bailey (Ch, xxxil, liv.) 








Wee 





actin Ehusstewlt, 239 


Jn the fulness of time, that the Jocular boarders had appropri 
a the word (Tamaroo} from an English ballad, in which it ts supposed ta 
‘express the bold and flery nature of a certain hackney-coachman; and shat ty 
‘was bestowed upon Mr, Inlley’s successor by reason of her having nothing fiery 
about her, except an occasional attack of that fire which Ls called St. Anthony's 
‘This anclent fem: ~ was chletly remarkable for a totill absence of all com. 
prehension upon any subject whatever, Sho was a perfect tomb for messages 
‘and small parecls; and, when despatched to the postofice with letters, lind beem 
frequently seen endoavoring to taxinnate them into camal chfaks in private 
doors, under the delusion that any door with hole in it would answer the 
purpose. She was a very little old woman, and always wore a very course aprom 
‘with a bib before, and aloop behind, together with bandages on her wrist, which 
‘appeared to be ailllcted with an everlasting sprain, Sho was on all occasions 
chary of opening the street-door, and ardent to shut It ngain; and she waited ak 
3 table In a bonnet, 
fapley, Mark. Hostler at the Blue Dragon Inn, kept by Mra, 
Lupin; a young fellow of some five or six and twenty, with a 
whimsical face and very merry pair of blue eyes, and usually 
dressed in a remarkably free and fly-away fashion. He believes 
that there never “was a man as could come out so strong under 
circumstances that would make other men miserable” as himself, 
ifhe could “only get a chance.” But that he finds it difficult to 
do. He takes the situation at the Dragon in consequence of having 
made up his mind that it is the dullest little out-of-the-way corner 
in England, and that there would be some credit in being jolly in 
such a place, But he leaves it because there is no dulness there 
whatever ; skittles, cricket, quoits, nineping, comic songs, choruses, 
company round the chimney-corner every winter evening, making 
the little inn ns merry as merry ean be. Going to London, he 
meets Martin Chuzzlewit, and finding him moneyless, and resolved 
to go to America, he begs permission to accompany him as his man- 
servant, After gome opposition, Martin consents; and thoy take 
passage in the steerage of the packet-ship “ Scrow.” 

It Is due to Mark Tapley to state, that he suffered at least ax much from sem 
sickness as ony man, woman, of child on board; and that he had a peculiar ime 
ulty of knocking himself about on the smallest provocation, and Josing tilt lege 
‘at every furch of the ship. But resolved, in his usual phrase, to “come out 
strong” under disadyantageous elroumstanoes, he was the life and soul of the 
steerage, and made no more of stopping In the middle of n facetious converra- 
tlon to go away und be exceastvely il! by himself. and afterwards come back in 
the very best and gayest of temper to resume It, than if auch a course of prov 
eveding had been the commonest in the world. 

Te cannot be auld, that, as his illness wore off, his cheerfulness and good 
nature increased, because they would hacdly admit of augmentation; bat his 
usefulness among the weaker members of the party was tauch enlarged. 

Av all tins and zeasons there he was, exerting It. Ifa gleam of sunshine shone 








Mi — 





240 The Wickens Wictlonary. 


out of the dark rkr, down Mark tumbled into the cabin; and present!y up he came 
‘agnin with a woman in his arms, or half a dozen ehildren, or a man, ora bed, ot 
‘& saneepan, or a busket, or something, animate or Inanimate, that be thought 
would be the better for the wir, If an hour or two of fine weather In the middie 
of the day tempted those who seldom or never camo on deck at other times to cram] 
into the long-boat, or Iie dows upon the spare spare, and try to eat, there, in the 
‘er ntro of the group, was Mr, Taploy, handing about salt beet and blacult, or dim 
pousing tastes of grog, oF cutting up the children’s provisions with his pocket-knife, 
for their greater case and comfort, or reading aloud from a venerable newspaper, 
or singing some roaring old song tom seloct party, or writing the bogtanings of 
Jectors to their friends at home for people who could n't write, or cracking jokes 
with the erew, or nearly getting blown over the side, or emerging half-drowned 
from a shower of spray, or lending s hand somewhere or other; but always doing 
something for the general entertainment. At night, when the cooking-fire was 
Aighted on the deck, and the driving sparks that flew among the rigging and the 
cloud of salle seemed to menace the ship with cortatn annihilation by fire, in case 
tho elements of alr and water failed to compass her destruction, there agaln was 
Mr. Tapley, with iis coat of, and his shirt-sleeyes turned up to his elbows, doing 
‘Kinds of culinary offices; compounding the strangest dishes; recognized by 
every one as an established wuthority: and helping all parties to achieve rome 
thing, which, left to themselves, they never could have done, and never would have 
dreamed of. In short, there never was a more popular character than Mark Tapley 
Decamo on board that noble and fust-salling tine-of-packet hip “The Screw; "and 
he uttained ut last to such w pitch of universal admiration, that he began to have 
grave doubts within himself, whether a man might reasonably claim any credit 
for belng jolly under such exelting olreumstances, 


Arrived at New York, Martin invests all his own means, and 
Mark’s, in the purchase of a fifty-acre lot in the distant “city” of 
Eden, which is represented to them as a flourishing town with 
banks, churches, markets, wharf, and the like. It is Martin's in~ 
tention to establish himself here as an architect; and he takes Mark 
into partnership, in consideration of his having furnished much the 
larger share of thelr joint stock, On reaching the place, however, 
after « long and fatiguing journey of many days, they find it to be 
a hideous swamp, exhaling deadly minsma, and containing only a few 
scattered log-cabins. Martin is terribly disheartened on discovering 
the outrageous swindle that has been practised upon him, and soon 
sinks under an attack of the fever that prevails throughout the 
settlement, 

“Now, Mr. Taplay.” sald Mark, giving himself a tremendous blow fn the chest 
by way of reviver, “Just you attend to what I've got to say. ‘Things ts looking 
About as bad as they cam look, young man. Youll not have such snother oppor: 
tunity for showing your jolly disposition, my fine fellow, as long as you live. And 
Aherefore, Tapley, now "4 your time to come out strong, or never!” 

Martin no sooner recovers than Mark is prostrated. For many 
weary days and nights be lies burning up with fever; but, a# long ae 





Martin Epusslewlt. 241 


he can speak, he assures Martin that he is still “jol.y,” and when, at 
last, he is too far gone to speak, he feebly writes “jolly” on a slate. 
After a long and lingering illness, he slowly recovers; and, when able 
to get about onee more, they both set their faces towards Old 
England, where they arrive in due time. Martin turns his steps to- 
wards the Blue Dragon, and finds his old friend Mrs. Lupin alone in 
the bar. Wrapped up as he is in « great-coat, she does not know him 
at first, but soon utters a glad ery of recognition, and he catches 
her in bis arms. 

“Yes, Twill” eriod Mark, “ another—one more— twenty more! You did n't 
‘ow me in that hat und coat? f thought you would have known me anywheres, 
Tea more!” 

“80 Tvhoald have known you if Tcould have seen you; bat T could n't, and 
you spoke so gruff! Idid n't think you could speak gruif to mo, Mark, at first 
‘coming back.” 

«Fifteen more!” sald Mr. Tapley. “How handsome and how young you look! 
Six more! The last half-dozen warn’t « fair one, and must be dove over aguin. 
Lord blest you, what a treat it {x to sce you! One more! Well, T never was +0 
Jolly! Just a few more on account of there not being any eredit in it” 

‘When Mfr. Tapley stopped in these calculations in simple addition, he did it, 
‘not becanso he was at all tired of the exercise, but because he was out of breath. 
‘The pause reminded him of other duties. 

“Me. Martin Chucelewit"* outside,” he sald. “Toft him under the cartahed 
‘while Leamo on to see if thore was auybody here. Woe want to keop quiet to 
‘night, till we know the news from you, and what It °s best for us to do,” 

“There 4 not a soul {n the house, except the kitchen company,” returned the 
hostess, “+1¢ they were to know you had come back, Murk, they 'd have w bonfire 
in the atreet, Inte ms tt is” 

+But thoy must n't know It to-night, my precious soul,” aald Mark: “so have 
the house shut, and the kitchen-fire mado up; and, when It ’ all ready, put a light 
Jn the winder, and we "ll come in. One more! F long to bear about old friends. 
‘You "l tell me all about "em; won't you,— Mr. Pinch, and the butcher's dog down 
the street, and the terrier over the way, and the wheclwright's, and every one of 
Yem. When I first caught sight of the church to-night, I thought the steeple would 
have choked me, aid. One more! Won't you? Not avery little one to finish 
‘off with ?”* 

“You have had plenty, I am sure," sald the hostess. “Go along with your 
forelga manners!” 

“Thu ain't foreign, bles you!” cried Mark, “Nutive ns oysters, that Ia! One 
snore, because ft "s native; asa mark of respect for the land we live int ‘hie 
don't count ws botwoen you and ine, you understand,” sald Mr."Tapley. © f ain't 
‘wkiselng you now, you ‘ll observe. have been among tho putriote!  ’m mkles 
(’ my country!" 

‘This lave-passage ends in the marriage of Mark to the fair widow, 
and the conversion of the Blue Dragon into the Jolly Tapley. “A 
ign of my own invention,” said Mark; “wery new, conwivial, and 
expressive.” 

(Ch. ¥, vii, xiii-xv, xvii, xxi-vxiii, xxxili-xxxy, xliii, xlviii, li-liii.) 

ai 


— ——— 





a2 She Mickens Wictienary. 


Tigg, Montague, alias Tica Moxracue. A needy sharper, and 
a friend of Chevy Slyme's. 

‘The gentleman was of that order of appearance which {s currently termed 
shabby-genteel. though, in respect of his dress, he can hardly be anid to have 
been in any extremities, as his fingers were a long way out of his gloves, and the 
soles of his feet were at an inconvenient distance from the upper-leather of his 
boots. His nether garments were of « blulsh-gray,— violent In {ts colors noe, 
but sobered now by agy and dinginoss, — nnd wore so stretshed and strained in 


tough conflict between his braces and bie straps, that they appeared every 
moment fn danger of flying asunder ut the kuees. His coat, In color blue, and 


of m military cut, was buttoned and frogged up to bis chin, His oravat was, in 
hue ond pattern. like ono of those mantles which hairdressers are accustomed 
to wrap about thelr clients during the progress of the professional syateries. 
Mis hat had arrived at such a pass, that it would have been hard to determing 
whether It was originally white or black. But he wore a mustache, -—a shagey 
mustache, too; nothingIn the meek and mereiful way, but quiten the flereo and 
scornful style, —the regular satanionort of thing; and he wore, besides, m rast 
quantity of unbrusbed hair. He was very dirty and very jaunty, very bold 
and very mean, very swaggering and very alinking. very much like «man who 
might have been something better, and unspoakably like = man who doserred 
to be something worse. 

At a later period, having come into the powession of a few 
pounds, he unites with David Crimple, a tapster who has saved a 
few pounds (see Crimpce, Davin), and reversing his name, and 
making it Tig Montague, Esquire, organizes a awindling concerr 
called the Anglo-Bengalee Disinterested Loan and Lifo Insurance 
Company, and, peculating on a grander scale than formerly, bo- 
comes a grander man altogether. 


Hohad a world of Jot-black shining hairupon his head, upon his cheeks, upon 
‘his chin, upon his upperlip. His clothes, symmetrically made, were of the new= 
‘ert fashion and the costllext kind, Flowers of gold and bloe, and groen, and 
Dlushing red, were on his waistcoat; precious chains und Jewels sparkled on 
hie breast; his Angers, clogged with brilliant rings, were as unwieldy as summer 
files but newly reacued from a honey-pot; the daylight mantled in his gleaming 
hat and boots as in a polished glass: and yet, though changed his name, and 
changed his outward surface, it was Tigg- Though tarned and twisted upside 
down and Inside out, ne great men have been sometimes known to be; though 
‘no longer Montague Tigg, but Tigg Montague: still It was Tiggy—=the same sae 
tanle, gallant, military Tigg. The brass was burnished, lacquered, newly 
stamped, yet it was the true Tigg metal notwithstanding. 





Obtaining private information of Jonas Chuzzlewit’s attempt to 
poison his father, Tigg makes use of his knowledge of the face to 
compel him not only to invest largely in the stock of the Anglo 
Bengalee out of his own wealth, but to persuade his father-in-law, 
Mr. Pecksniff, to do so likewise. Jonas finding his secret known 
and himself baffled, hunted, and beset, watches his opportunity, and 


Martin Ehusslewle. 243 


murders Tigg; but his crime is discovered, and he is arrested, and 
put into * coach to be carried to prison, but poisons himself on 
the way. (Ch. iv, vil, xil, xiii, xxii, xxviii, xxxvili, xl-xlii, xliv, 
xlvii.) 

Yodgers, Mra. M. Keeper of a commercial boarding-house in 
London; a bony and hard-featured lady, with a row of curls in 
front of her head, shaped like little barrels of beer. 

“Presiding over an establishment ke this makes sud havoe with the fos 
tures, my dear Mise Pecksniffs," anid Mrs. Todgers. ©The gravy alone ts 
‘enough to add twonty years to one's age, I do assuro you.” 

“Lor!” oried the two Mise Pecksniffs. 

“The anxiety of that one item, my dears,” auld Mrs. Todgore, “keeps the 
‘mipd continually upon the stretch, ‘Thore is no such passion In human nature 
‘aa the passion for gravy among commercial gentlemen. It’ nothing to say & 
Joint won't yield—a whole animal would n't yield — the amount of grary they 
‘expect ench day at dinner; and what I have undergone, In consequence,” cried 
‘Mrs. Todgers, raising her eyes, and shaking her head, “no one would believe. 

Though not a handsome woman, Mrs. Todgers is a very kind- 
hearted one; and when Mrs. Jonas Cliuzzlewit (Merey Pecksniff), 
heart-broken and destitute, applies to her for sympathy and nssist- 
ance, she extends both ready band and heart. 

‘Commercial gentlemen and gravy had tried Mrs. Todgers’s temper? the main 
ebance —it was such a very small oue, in hercase, that she might have been ex- 
used for looking sharp after it, lest Lt should entirely vanish from her sight — 
iad taken a firm hold on Mrs, Todgers’s attention, But in some odd nook in 
‘Mrs. Todgers’s breast, up a great many steps, and In a corner easy to be over- 
Jooked, there was a secret door, with “ Woman" written on the spring, which, 
at 4 touch from Meroy’s hand, had flown wide open, and admitted her for 
shelter. 

‘When boarding-houso accounts arv balanced with all other ledgers, and the 
Dooks of the Recording Angel ure made up forever, perhaps there may be seen 
an entry to thy credit, lean Mrs. Todgers, which shall make thee besutiful, 

(Ch. vili-xi, xxxii, xxxvii, xlvi, liv.) 

Toppit, Miss. A literary Indy whom Mrs. Hominy introduces te 
the Honorable Elijah Pogram. (Ch. xxxiv.) 

Westlock, John. A young man who has been a pupil of Pecks 
sniff’s, but has a difference with him, and leaves him. He is a 
warm friend of Tom Pinch’s, whose sister Ruth he finally marries, 
(Ch. ii, xii, xxv, xxix, xxxvi, xxvii, xxxix, xl, xlv, xlvili, xix, 
Hi-litt.) 

Wolf, Mr. A fiiend and confederate of Montague Tigg's; intro- 
duced to Jonas Chuzzlewit asa literary character connected wit 
aremarkably clever woekly paper. (Ch. xxviii) 

















244 Zhe Dickens Dictlonary, 


PRINCIPAL INCIDENTS. 


Cuarrma I. Conceming the podigres of the Chuzzlewit fuenily.—11 Mr. Hecke $i? 
about entering hs house, # unceremoniously overturned down tho steps by the wind 
‘Mamming the door In bis face; hls daughters discover him, and bear him inte the housey 
Av. Heckmiff's basiness, and his method of obtalaing pupils, described; Pecksaiit morte 
zea, and aunounces to his daughters the engagement of a new pupll; ‘Tom Pinch tries to 
Intarcoile for John Westiock, bat Mr. Tecksnif will Listen to no advances from Tom, oF 
from John himself, who teaves tn disgust; John tries to open Tom's eyes to the true 
character of Peckaiff, but without effeeti John Westlock’s departure for London. — 11%. 
‘Martin Chuzzlewit, senior, and Mary Graham, arriveat the Blac Dragon; Martin Js very 
MM, And tho landiady sends for Mr. Pecksolfl; Mre Lupin mistakes the relation existtng 
Detween Mr. Chuszlewit and Mary; Mr. Chazslewit dextroya a paperhe had with great 
dimoulty writtan In beds Mr, Peckanitf arrives at the Tile Dragon, and is greatly seandal- 
fred by the landlady’ story of her lodgers: his surprise at finding In the tnvatld hiseousin, 
‘Mr, Chuxalowitt Martin sequatots Mr, Peoksntif with tho cts of his wealth, and fis dle 
‘trust of all who court his favor.—1¥. Mr. Peckanitf comes tn violent contact with Mr. 
‘Moutague Tigg at the door of Mr. Chusslewit's chamber; Mr, Tig eulogizes his fetend, 
‘Mr. Chevy Siymo, and informs Mr. Pocksni{f of tho arrival of Mr. Chusalewit's relations: 
‘2 meoting of these relatives 1s held at Mr, Peckenitf"s house ; the meeting proves any thing 
‘bot harmonons, exch person accusing every other of designs on the property Of Me. Chua _ 
lewit, and Pecksniff is called some very hard tiames by his friende; the meeting brewke 
‘up on the annooncement that Mr, Chuzzlewit has gone no one knows where. — ¥. ‘Tora 
Pinch drives to Salisbury to meet the new pupil, taking ap Mark ‘Tapley on the way: 
‘Mark informs Tom of his intention to leaye the Dragon, and seck a new situation where 
hocan get some credit for being Jolly; meeting of Tor Pinch and the now pupil, and 
‘hele first impressions of each other! Tom relates to young Martin the elreumstanice of his 
Playing tho organ in tho church, and of the freqnent appearance thero of & beautiful youn 
Indy; Mr. Pecksnitf and his daughters affeot surprise at the early arrival of Martins Mr. 
Fecksniff shows his bouse to Martin, and, after xupper (om a scale thet surprises Tom 
‘Vinch), shows tim to his bedroom, and takes an opportunity to give him a hint of Tom's 
position, — VE. Mr. Pecksnif? announces his intention of going to London, and taking his 
aughters with his, and gives Martin some suggestions as to bls employment during hie 
‘absence; Tom and Martin, Jef alono together, become confidential, and Tom learns of 
‘Martin's attachment to Mary Graham, and consequent misunderstanding with Dis grande 
father; he also learns that his beautiful visitor In the church was Mary.—Vit. Tom and 
‘Martin aro surprised by the appearance of Mr. Montsguo Tige, who explains that bhinelf 
and Chevy Slymo are detained at the Dragon in default of payment of thelr bills, ad 
‘Martin and Tom assume the obligation: Mr. Syme shows his independent nature, Mr. 
‘Tikx linproves a favorable opportunity, and begs the Iona of a halfaoversign from Tom 
Pinchs Mark Taploy takes leave of tho ive Dragon.—VIIT. Mr, Peoksniff and his 
daughters, Journeying to London by the stagovonch, are Joined by Anthony Chuxstowlt 
‘and his ein Jonas, and Mr. Jonna becomes attentive to the young Indies; My. Peoksultt 
arrives with his Caaghters at Mra. Todgors’s Commorcial Boarding-House, and that indy 
makes arrangements for thelr accommodation, situation of Todgers's described. —1K. 
Mr. Pockanlff returns a favorable snawer to Mr. Jinkins's roané-robin; Pecksnlff and hie 
aughters call on Tom Pinch's slater: they patronise Miss Pinch, and offend sho gentle 
man of the house; Bailey gives sundry dark hints Inregand to the bill of fare for the ap 
proaching feast: the gentlemen boarders are presented to the young Indies: the xacoesstu. 
inner, graced by the presence of the young ladies, whore Mr. Jinikins ts triumphant, ane 
Mr. Modiie becomes despondent and Jealous; Mr, Pecksniff, under tbe infuence of wine 
pecomes a Iittle particular in his attentions to Mise Todgers; Mr. Pockemiif is put to bet 
under dimeuitios. ~X. Old Martin Chuzslewit calla on Mr. Peckaniff, apologizes fue hiv 
‘former rudeness, snd asks 80 Introduction to thst gentloman’s daughters; Mr. Chuxalewl 


























Martin Epuszlewet. 2s 


tnetructs Pocksnltf to dismiss young Martla from his employ, snd aske hits and the young 
adios to befriend Mary, who, he's careful to tell them, has no expectations from. him 
Mr. Chuszlewit warns Pocksnlff that tho world will aacuse him of mercenary motives Ia 
‘carrying out this plan, and takes his leave; Bra. Todgers's youngest boarder le Inoensed 
‘agiinat Mr. Jinkina; Bir. Pocksnlf? reproves Mra Todgers for dissimulation.—X1. Str. 
‘Joons Chuzzlewit iavites the young ladies to view the sights of London; after a ook wt 
‘all the free apectacles, Jonas takes them to his home; they are introduced to old Chutfey ; 
Chutfey's dependence upon Mr. Anthony Chaxclewit; 3isa Charity makes the tea, and 
reccites particular attention from Jonas; Jonas entertains the sisters through the evening, 
and then aecompanics them heme: the young gentiomen of Mra Todgers's serenade the 
Young ladionon tho ere of their departure from London; Str. Balloy receives ® gratulty, 
‘Kod makes himself useful; Mr. Anthony Chuzslewit snd Jonas call to tako teare, and (he 
Pecksniffs start for home.—XH. Young Martin patronizes Tom Pinch, and tells hima 
What he shall do for him when he himself ts successful: John Westlock fvites Tom and 
‘Martin to dine with him af Salisbary; and thay walk to Mallabury to Reep the appolni- 
‘mont; John and Martin discuss tho acnlability of Tom Pinch and the hypoorisy of Peck 
‘soitly Tom defends Pooksnitf against Joun's prejudices John returns Tom tho money he 
had loaned Teg, and eautions him ngainat truating that gentleman any furthers Jobm 
‘Wertloo’s, watching Tom and Martin as they set out for home, 1s impressed with a seni 
(of Martin's aeldah mlsappreciation of Tom's character; Martin and Tom turn out to meet 
Mr, Pecksulff aud bis daughters on thele roturn, and Martin Js astonished to receive no 
‘recognition from them; Martin demands an explanation, and Is disinised by Peckanif{'s 
‘he determines to go to Amerion ; Tom Pinch gives him bis last halfsoveroign,— XIX, Mar- 
tin moots a friendly teamster, who helps blm on his way, and gives bli an secoant of iis 
‘elend who wont to the U-nited States; Martin encounters Mr. Montague Tix at a pawn- 
‘broker's, and makes ineffectual attempts to fad employment In London} be receives ® 
twents-pound note from an unknown hand; Mark Tapley mtrodaces liimaelf to Martin, 
and asks to bo taken Into his service, and allowed to go to America with him: Martin 
‘relates hile history to Mark, Mark installa himself tn Martin's sorvice,and secures a moot 
ng between his master and Mary.— XIV. Martin and Mary meet in tho Park; he informe 
‘her of his intention to go to Amorica, and conslgns ber to the are of Tom Pinch; Mark 
tscoris Mary homo after her farewell to Martin, and she sends by him ber diamond rin 
thee lover.—XY. Mr. Mark Tapley, on bond the ship" Screw.” bound for Americ, oun 
‘s5 opportunity to bo Jolky,"* and makes hinsolf useful to his poor fellowepaasengersy Star 
Uin's pride im avoiding the cabin-pasengers: the Wavellers land ta New York.—XVI. 
‘They evoounter Colonel Diver, who eulogizes his country colloquy between the captaln 
"The Screw “and Colonel Diver; Martin accompanies the colonel to the office of * The 
| Rowdy Journal,” and (s introduced to Mr. Jefferson Brick; Me. Brick gives a toast 
they all go to the boarding-honse of Sins. Pawkins, where Martin is astonished af the 
| ‘voraclly of the boarders, and makes the acquaintance of some of “the most remarkable 
ten of the country ;"" Mr. Bovan accoste Martin.and explains soine of the charscteristioe 
of the colonel. —XVIL. Mr. Boyan surprises Martin by his eriticiems of America; they 
Gnd Mark Tapley ot the office of “The Rowdy Journal." in company with a former slave, 
‘whoue story he repeats to them; Mr. Bevan introduces Martin to the funily of tr, Norris} 
Martin is much pleased with them, until the entrance of General Piaddock, who was « 
‘abin-passonger in “Tho Screw; " when he acknowledges that he himself came to the 
meerage from poverty, he finds a nudden coldness on the part of his hosts Mra Jefferson, 
cick desoribes her attendance on certain lectures; Mark Tapley revives Martin's splrite 
by administering @ shorry-cobtler.—XVIIT. Jonas Chuaslowit, examining his father's 
Will, la tarted by the appearance of Mr. Peckanitf; Anthony Informe Vecksnlff that Jonas 
frill be his heir, and advises him to bind him to one of his daughters while he ts lu the 
tuood; mudden death of Anthouy Chuszlewit. — XIX. Mr. Pockanlif goes in quost of 3rx. 
Aiamp1 Mr. Mould, the undertaker, commends the affectionate regrets of Mr. Jonze, wha 
‘eas ordered no limitation of expense In the funoral arrangements; Charley's grief at the 
‘seath of his old master; senaltiveness of Zouss under his aMiiction; how old Anthony 
‘was Duried, «nd no expense sparet; Jonas Ie alarmed lest Chaffey should talk some 
seems eX Jonas quostions Mr. Pecksnlff in regard °% the dowry ba will 





























246 Ede Dickens Dietfonary. 


{Fiv0 lls daughter tn ease sho should secure such a husband as imatif; ew Jenne treated 
Vocksnlt, and how Peckmlif paid the bills Feckeaniff, recalling the mewory of old Ane 
thony, Is warned by Jonas never to revive the vubjects Mr: Pecksaiff takes Jonax home 
‘with him, and they surprise Cherry In the performance of her household duties: Jonas 
propoves Lo Mercy In tho presence of her ister, mach to the disappointment of the wider 
‘stor’ hopes; Tom Finchannounces the approach of old Martin Chuzalewit and Mary Gime 
‘hom —XX1. Young Marcin and Mark Tupley, on the way to fiden, discus the attractions 
of that locality: Mr. La Fayotte Kettle and General Choke give Martin some tuformation. 
‘now to him in regard to his own country's tho general edviees the travellers in romard to 
smtiling in Zdeny Martin takes Mark Into partnership; they consult the agent of the Eden 
‘Land Corporation, witness the flouriahing condition (upon psper) of that city, and pur 
‘hase an eligible sito: they attend w great mocting of the Watertoast Sympathiaers. 
‘and witness the ond of that association — XXL. Martin is lloniaed by the ettizens, and 
Anvited th doliver a teesure: on declining, hes forced to hoida *te-Vee;™ Mra Hominy is 
Introduced; Captain Kedgick «ives Mark the seoret of Martin's popularity. XXII. The 
‘travollors proceed on their Journey to den, leaving Mra Hominy at New Thermopylam: 
‘arrived at Eden, they find it to cousiat of a few log-houses in @ swamp.and Martin Rives 
‘way to his feelings Martin is taken {ll with fever and ague.— XXIV. Pocksntif receives 
1his visitors with assumed surprise; he propares Mr. Chuzalewit's mind for w meeting with 
‘Jonas, whom be eulogizos as a model and datifal son; Tom Minch tights Mr. Chazzlewit 
‘and Mary home to the luo Dragon; returning, he encounters Jonas, who assaults bit, 
‘und gots tho worst of Itt Jonas ssoribes his Injary to accident, but Charity suspects Tons 
to be the cause of It, and thanks him for It; old Martin tries to mouse Moray to x eons of 
her future unhappiness (¢ she marries Jonas: Jonas asks Mercy to fix the day.—XX¥. 
Airs. Gatap calls upon the Moulds and discourses on the changes of Lifes she obtains Mr. 
‘Mould’s permission to nightwatch @ gentleman in connection with taking eave of Mr. 
Chutfey, who hasbeen Jef in her chargo during the abssnce of Jonas; Joka Westlock calls 
‘at cho Boll €0 inquire about Mrs. Gamnp's now patient; Boteay Prig introduces Mre Gaznp 
to her new patient, whoso mind Iswandering. —XXV1. Mr. Hafley calleupan Poll Sweedle- 
pipe, and hears of the marriage of Jonas: golng with Poll to.Janas's house to fetch Mire 
Gamp, sho ts surprised to learn thet Jonas has married “the morry ones" the bride's 
‘welcome home, —XXVII. Mr. Montague Tiey appears ws Tigg Montague, Esq., ebairman 
of the Anglo-Bengalee Disinterested Loan and Life Insurance Company, of which David 
Crimplo is secretary; meeting of the board of the Anglo-Bengalee; Doctor Jubling tateor 
duces Jonas Chuzzlewit, who han an Interstew with Tig, in which tho Batter makes lita 
‘sf known to Jonas, and invites him to Join ehe company; Montague instructs Nadgett 
4o bring bm alt the information he oxn obtain in rezard to Jonas Chusslowlt,— XXVIL- 
‘Fonns dines with Br. Tigg and a fow friends at that gentleman's house; he teenrried home 
crunk try Mr. Batley: Jonas ourses his wife, and strikes ber-—XXIX. Mr. Batley bas 6 
‘tasy have nt the hands of Poll Sweedlopipe: Mra Gamp’s opinion of Mr. Lewsome’s sek- 
nose; Mrs, Gamp and Betsoy Prig prepare thelr patient for « Journey; Lewaome tolls 
John Westiock he has a accret weighing on hie mind. — XXX. Mr. ecksnlt reproves tila 
eldest daughter for her Jealousy of hor ister: and at her request consents to place her at 
‘Mra. Todgera's in the city; Pocksnif informs Martin of Charity's proposed departure and 
Jnvites him to come and stay with hitn for the sake of Mary; Mr. Pecksnl(f moots Mary, 
and forces her to listen to un offer of marriage, which she spurax, and he threatens 40 Use 
his influence with Mr. Chusziewit against bis grandson, waless sho aubmalte; Cherry tne 
forms Tom Winch of her tntended departure. —XXXI, Peckaniff witnesses in tho ehurch 
an interview between Tom Pinch and Mary, in which she opens Tom's eyes to the true 
character of bisemployer; Peeksnii complains to Mr, Chuaalewit that he has been cruelly 
deceived Ly Thomas Pinch; ho accuses Tom, In the presmnce of Mr. Chuzzlewit, of ad- 
Sreesing proposals of love to Mary in tho eburch: Tom makes no reply, but returns to 
Pecksnltf his doable-eyoglass which ho had found ta the church, and lexvos the houses 
Fom declines Mrs. Lupin's invitation to stay at the Deogon, and goes to Salisbury. — 
XXXIL Mist Peckanltf arrives at Mrs, Todgers’s, and recolves a pathetle account of the 

date of Mr, Augustus Moddle; Charity becomes sttentive to Me. Modd'e, and draws ise 

010 a proposal of marriage, whlch, of course, she accopte —XXXITL. Mr. Mark Taplay 

(Wads thar huis fotlow-passcngers on The Serev: “ arehis next-loornelghborsin Eten Ms 





























Martin Epusslewlt. 287 


‘Buxlbal Chollop calls upon the now sottlersy Mark’s freo speaking Joes not ploase him, 
‘ang he warns hima to rostrain it; Martin recovers, afler many weeks, and Mark x then 
‘taken III; by these expertenoos Martin learns the Temson of self-sacrifice, and, upon Mark's 
Freovery, conmuits him in regard to returning home; Martin writes to Mr. Bevan for sxalet- 
‘ance, on receipt of which they start homoward.— XXXIV. Martin ts introduced to the 
Honorable Etijals Pogram, B.C. ; Mr. Pogram glorides the tustitutions of the country, and 
‘siuribures Martin's dissent to British prefadion} Captain Kedgick Is surprised 10 s00 she 
Wrarellors return; Mr. Pogram holds a le-Veo by request of a commitice of the eltizana; 
meoting of Mrs, Hominy and Elijah Pograms Martin and Mark arrive ia New York, fot 
Mr. Bevan, and tearn that The Screw” ls in port, and ready to sail for England the next 
371 Mark ships.as cook, and #9 pays theirpsssage, enabling them to deatine the assistance 
Of Mr. Levan. —XXXY. Arrtring Iu England, they witness the laying of the comer-stone 
of @new building, at which Mr, Pecksniff, as architeot, plays a prominent parts Martin 
Feeogntzes the plan of tho building as his own, which ho dealgned when studying with 
Pecksnitl,— XXXVI. Tom Pinch starts for London to scek his fortune: be takes leave of 
‘Mra Lupin; arrived im London, he calle upon John Weatlock at Furnival’s Inn, who is 
delighted to see him, and insists upon his staying with him; Tom goes wo see his sister, 
‘and, finding her subjected to the inclvility of sereants and the unjust censure of her em- 
lovers, boexpresses tis indignation, and takes her away with him; Tom and Huth Bad 
Joditngs st Islington. —XXXVIE. Tom encounters Miss Charity Pecksnlif in the street, 
‘und foes with her to Drs. Todgers’s, whore he mects her sister; Mercy gives Tom a mea 
sage for old Mr. Chuztlowity Charity introduces Tom to Mr, Moddie; Tom tells John 
‘Weatlock his story, and returns to Rath.— XXXVIU1. Mr. Nadgett prosecutes his inquiries: 
‘as ontered by Mr. Montague: he reports the result of bis Lavestigations In weiting to his 
ecxployers Jonas calls upon Mr. Montague, who Keops Nadgett present at thotr interview, 
in which he proposes that Jonas should go deeper into thelr scheme, and draw tn his fe 
therin-iaw also, and gives Jonas, in x whisper, good roason for complying. =~ XXXUX. Tom 
Pinch and Kath commence their housckeeping: how Muth mak 

‘snd how John Westlook happens in In season to witness the operatic 
lreumstances of a call he had received from & gentleman who offered Tom, through lm, 
‘Asituation as secretary and Ubrarian, with » salary ofone hundred pounds: Jolm and ‘Tum 
exll upon Mr. Pips, the agent of Tom's employer; Br. Pips shows Tom tho place where 
Iie wark Leto be, but declines to give his employer's name; Johu dines wich Tom and his 
Mister, and hears Tom's account of bis leaving Pocksnif, and of the changes in T'eekenit« 
family. — XL. Tom enters upon his duttes and makes considerable progress. but the mystery 
f bs employer is atil! unsolved ; Tom and Rath, taking « morning-walk nonr the steame 
bout wharf, encounter Mrs. Gamp, anxiously seeking for The AnkWorks Package; 
‘Gamp discovers the persons of whom she isin search, and points them out to Toms ‘Tom 
Mamazed to nee Nadgett at hia elbow, making Inquiries for the same partion; at Nadgett'e 
request, Torn carries the man a letter, and 1s astonished to recognize Jonas Chuzalewits 
‘diet of the lotter upon Jonas, who drags his wife trom tho steamer, meets Montayue apo 
the wharf, and drives off with him, XLT. Montague threatens Jonas with a disclosure of 
‘tho secret ho posseases, unieas he uccedes to his demands; Montague pronosox that Jonas 
should entice Pecksniff to Invest with them, and, at Jonas’s request, consents to go wht 
imo to Peckanii"'sy Jonas lanches with Jobling, and questions him in a careleen way about, 
the use of his lancets; the doctor narrates the particulars of a remarkable murder. — 
XLIL Journey of the two friends to Satisbury during a violent storm; the carriawe 
‘erertamed, the horses thrown down, and Jonas attotnpis to furee them upon Mot vague, 
‘who Is ying senealens in thy Toad, Dut is stopped by the driver; Hatley, who accompanies 
hem, recetves severe injuffes from the accident; Montague resolves to travel ote alone. 
=XLUL Mrs. Lupin, sitting alone in her bar, ix accosted ~F a traveller who Anqutrex for 
Mark Tapley; the traveller proves to be Mark himself, who, accompanied by Martin, ha 
Just arrived; they learn from Mrs Lupin the changes in Pocksnif"s family and the tnfta= 
2aco Hockenlst has acquired over old Mr. Cuazzlewit; Martin determines 1 call upou hie 
grandfather, and sends Mark with a lottor requesting leave to wait upon bli, which eek 
sniff reenives at the door, and destroys; Martin, aceompanted by Mark, gains admission te 
Fecksaitf's house, and appeals to his grandfather, who allows Pocksniff to answer for 
‘Nim; Martin has an intorriew with Mary, and learns of Peckanift's suit for her bendy 





























24s The Wickens Mictlonary. 


leaving Pecksnift's house, they meot Jonas golng there. —XLTV. Mr. Pecksnlif receiver. 
‘his non-ln-law with tender inquiries for his daughters; Jonas informs Peckanlif of hie 
asiness, Introduces him t Montague, snd secures tho investment of his espital In thalt 
‘concern; Jonas leaves Montaxue to complete the arrangements with Pecksniff,and retaroe 
to London. —XLY, Buth Pinch, waiting for Tom In Fountala Court, is joined by John 
‘Wextlock, who takes Tom and his alster homo to his rooms to dine.—XLVI. ‘Tom reintos 
‘the occurrences of the morning on the wharf, and John suspects foul plays Tom and Ruth, 
‘Foiny to call on Mra Jonas Chuzzlewit, meet Mise Pecksniff and Mr. Modile, who accom 
pany them; Mes. Gamp makes tea for the company, and admonishes Mr. Chorfey | Jonas 
Tetarms home, is incensed to find Tom there,and forces him to leave the house; Jonas 
otires to a private room, giving orders that he shall not be disturbed, and snder cover of 
‘the darknons, and In disguise, escapes from the house by an tnfrequented way.—XLVEf. 
Jonas returns to Wiltshire, concealed by his dlaguise, Ios in walt for Montague, waylays 
‘Mo as ho Is passing through a plece of woods, murders him, and returns by night to Lone 
on : In the torning Jonas ts called by his wife, who informs him that Nadgert had called, 
‘very early to noo him. —XLVII. Tota and Ruth are aurprised by a call from Martin and 
‘Mark; Martin gives Tom an account of his alroumstances, and by his advice they go to 
‘consult John Wostlock, who recetves them with some embarrassment on account of hiay= 
tnga visitor; Tom and Mark leave Martin with John, ands they walk along Mork informs 
‘Tom of the settlement he proposes to maken Ife; John introduces Martin to hix vialtor, 
‘Mr. Lewsome, who narrates his instrumentality in the death of Anthony Chuzxlewit, and 
‘fixes the respooalbillty upon Jonas, whorn he accuses of his father's munter; Martin and 
Jobn determine what course to pursue. — XLIX. Mes. Gap enverralus Betsey Prigat her 
apartment In Kingsgate Street, but that lady showing some unpleasant fooling, and rentur~ 
Ing to express n doabt of the existence of Mrs. Harris, the friends quarrel, and part: Jobm 
and Martin arrive Just st thix momont, and learn from Are. Gamp some partioulare in 
regard to Chuffey.—L. Martin accuses ‘Tom Pinch of unfairness, greatly to Tom"s aur 
prise: Kath tells Tom abe has discovered his secret love for Mary; Tom's employer wt last 
appears. —LL Jonas Chuzslewit thinks to carry out hie plan for allencing Mr. Chatty s 
Mra Gamp arrives, and is soon followed by old Martin and John Westlock, who are fol~ 
lowed by Lewsome and Mark Tapley; Lewsome states all tho ctroumstances relating to: 
Jonas’ murder of his father, which Chusfey contradicts, by relating how his old master 
‘and himself had discovered Jonus's designs, and that Anthony had died from « broken. 
‘heart, and got from polson; Jonas, thinking himself cleared by this testimony, orders them 
from the room, when Nadgott enters with officors, and arrests bim for the murder of Mone 
‘taguo; Nadgott’s narrative of how he had tracked Jonas, and discovered the murder of his 
father, and Then that of Montagne; Jonas attempts to bribe Slyme, who ls one of the 
‘officers, to allow hisa to kill himself, but, Gling ia thls, he comrnlts auiclde by taking polsom 
‘as they are carrying him to Jall,- LUI. Mark Tapley waits upon old Martin Chuaelewit by 
Iiis request; he admits, In turn, Mr. John Weatlock, Tom Minch wad his aletor, young 
Martlo, and Miss Graham ond Mrs, Lupin: lastly Mr. Pecksnlff enters, and reproaches 
thom all for taking advantage of the old man, when the old man strikes him down with 
‘his staf: Martin compels Pecksnitf to listen to bis exposure of his meanness, and to wile 
ew his reconciliation with young Martin; Mr. Mockentf takes his departure; Mrs. Gampy 
Mr. Poll Sweediepipe, and the revived Mr. Balley, appear and disappenr for the tnab tine. 
‘==LIIf, John Weatlock declares tis love to Ituth, and finds 1t reciprocated: happiness of 
ld Martin tn the Joy of tho lovers; he entertains them all at dinner; Miss Pecksnitt 
makes arrangements for hor wedding. —T1V- Mr. Chuxalowit calls upon Morey at Mm 
Todkore’s, end tcvites her to place hervelf under bis care; Mark Tapley welcomes home 
‘is 0:4 neighbors in Edens how Mr, Augustus Moddle deserted his bride, and Miss Pook. 
soit! was not married; what Tom Pinch saw as time passed on, 




















The Chimes. 


A GOBLIN STORY OF SOME BELLS THAT RANG AN OLD 
YEAR OUT, AND A NEW YEAR IN. 


‘Tus, the second of the Christmas books, was brought out in 1844 by Bradbury 
and Evans. It was illustrated with a frontispiece and title on ateel by Daniel Ma 
‘elise, and with woodcuts from drawings by John Leech, Richard Doyle, and 
‘Clarkson Stanfield. 





CHARACTERS INTRODUCED.” 


Bowley, Lady. Wife to SirJosoph Bowley ; a very stately lady. 
(2d quarter.) 

Bowley, Master. Her son, a little gentleman aged twelve. 
(8d quarter:) 

Bowley, Sir Joseph. An old and very stately gentleman, who 
is a member of parliament, and who prides himself upon being the 
“poor man's friend and father." The poor man in his district 
he considers his business, “I endeavor,” he says, “to educate his 
mind by inculeating on all occasions the one great moral lesson 
which that class requires; that is, entire dependence on myself, 
(2d, 34 quarter.) 

Chickenstalker, Mrs. Anne. A stout old lady, keeper of » 
shop “in the general line,” who, Toby Veck dreams, is married to 
Tugby, Sir Joweph Bowley's porter. (20, 4th qaarter.) 

Cute, Alderman, ‘A plain man and a practical man; an easy, af 
fable, joking, knowing fellow, up to every thing, and not tobe im- 
posed on; one who understands the common people, and has not 
the least difficulty in dealing with then. Being a ‘ustice, he thinks 

Ld 


i 





250 Ebe Dickens Bictfonary. 


he can “ put down” any thing among “this sort of people,” and so 
sets about putting down the nonsense that is talked about want, 
and the cant in vogue about starvation; and declares his intention 
of putting down distressed wives, buys without shoes and stocke 
ings, wandering mothers, and indeed all young mothers of all sorte 
and kinds, all sick persons and young children; and, if there is one 
thing on which he can be said to have made up his mind more thay 
on another, it is to put suicide down. Under this name Mr. Dick 
‘ens scarified Sir Peter Laurie, a wealthy Scotch saddler residing 
ic London, who was knighted in 1828 on being appointed sheriff of 
London and Middlesex, and who was chosen alderman from Alders- 
gate in 1826, and was elected lord-mayor in 1882. Sir Peter was 
a garrulous and officlous magistrate, severe in his treatment of the 
poor, and in the habit of threatening to put down want, vagabond- 
age, suicide, and the like, among them. (1st, $d quarter.) 

Fern, Lilian. An orphan; niece to Will Fern. (2d-4th quarter.) 

Fern, Will. A poor but honest man, who only wants to live like 
‘one of the Almighty’s crecturs”” but has a bad name, and can’t. 
(2d-4th quarter-) 

Filer, Mr. A low-spirited gentleman of middle age, of a meagre 
habit and a diseonsolate face, full of facts and figures, and realy to 
prove any thing by tables; a friend of Alderman Cute’s. (Ist, 8d 
quarter.) 

Fish, Mr. Confidential secretary to Sir Joseph Bowley. (2d, 8d 
quarter.) 

Lilian. See Ferny, Lintax. 

Richard. A handsome, well-made, powerful young smith, engaged 
to Meg Veck. (1st, $d, 4th quarter.) 

Tugby. Porter to Sir Joseph Bowley; afterwards married, aa 
Toby Veck dreams, to Mra. Chickenstalker. (2d, 4th quarter.) 
Veck, Margaret or Meg, Toby Veck's daughter. (ist4th 

quarter.) 

Veck, Toby, called Trorry from his pace, “which meant specd, 
‘fit didn’t make it.” A ticket-porter. 

A weak, small, spare old man, ho was ® vory Hercules, this Toby, in hile 
go0d Intentions, He loved to cara his money. He delighted to believe —Tobs 
wns very poor, and couldn't well afford to part with a delight — thes he wae 
worth his ait. With n shilling or an eighteen-penny message or smail pares 
in hand, bis courage, always high, rose higher. As he trotted on, he would eal? 
out to fast postinen ahead of him to got out of the way, devoutly belleving 
‘that, In the 18 -vral course <¢ things, he must inevitably ov-rinke aud ran ther 


Ebe Chimes. 251 


down; and he had perfect fuith—not often tested tn his being able to carry 
‘any thing that man could lift, 


‘Toby has a great liking for the bells in the church near his station, 


Being but « simple man, he invested them with w strange and solemn charac 
ter. ‘They were «o mysterious (often heard, and never seen), s0 high up, a0 far 
‘Off, 10 full of such ® deop, strong melody, that he regarded them with m spezlee 
of awe; and sometimes, when he looked up at the dark arched widows in the 
tower, he half expected to be beckoned to by something which was not a Uell, 
and yet was what he heard #0 often sounding in thie chimes. For all this, Toby 
scouted with indignation w certain flying rumor that the chimes were haunted, 
‘ns lmplying the possibility of their being connected with any evil thlug. In short, 
they wore very often in his ears, and very often in his thoughts, but always tn hie 
good opinion; and he very often got such a crick in his neck by staring, with bis 
‘mouth wide open, nt the steeple where they hung, thet he was fain to take an ex- 
tra trot or two afterwards to cure It. 

On Christmas Eve, Toby falls asleep by the fireside, while read- 
ing a newspaper, and dreams that he is called by the chimes, and 
80 goes up into the church-tower, which he finds peopled by dwarf 
phantoms, spirits, elfin creatures of the bells, of all aspects, shapes, 
characters, and occupations. As he gazes, the spectres disappear, 
and he sees in overy bell a bearded figure, mysterious and awfal, of 
the bulk and stature of the bell, —at once a figure and the bell itself? 
‘The Great Bell, or the Goblin of the Great Bell, after arraigning 
him for sundry instances of wrong-doing, puts him in charge of the 
Spirit of the Chimes, a little child, who shows him various sorrow- 
ful scones of the future, the actors in which he knows, and some 
of whom are very near and dear to him, But all these scenes point 
the same moral, —“that we must trust and hope, and neither doubt 
‘ourselves, nor the good in one another.” And when Toby breaks the 
spell that binds him, and wakes up suddenly with a leap that brings 
him upon his fuct, he is beside himself with joy to find that the 
chimes are merrily ringing in the New Year, and that all the sin 
and shame and suffering and desperation which he has witnessed 
is but the baseless fabric of a vision. The lesson is not forgotten, 
howevsr, and the New Yeas is made all the happier by his troubled 
dream. . 














The Exicket on the Hearth. 


A FAIRY TALE OF HOME. 


POsLisHED in 1645, insoribed to Lord Jeffrey, and {lnatrated with a frontie 
plece and titlepage by Maclise, and woodonts from drawings by Doyle, Leech 
Clarkson, Stanfield, and Landseer, 

‘The story takes its name from the quaint description with which tt opens, of 
@ match or trial of skill, in the cozy home of an English carrier, between the 
ten-kettle and a cricket, in which the latter gains the victory. “ To have # cricket 
on the hearth,” Dot, the carrier’s wife, tells her husband, “Is the luckiest. thing 
tn all the world” 





CHARACTERS INTRODUCED. 


Boxer. John Peerybingle’s dog. (Chirp 1st-3d.) 

Dot. See Preryntxouz, Mas. Marr. 

Fielding, May. A friend of Mrs. Peerybingle’s. She is overs 
persuaded into consenting to bestow her hand upon Tackleton, a 
surly, sordid, grinding old man; but, on the morning of the day ap- 
pointed for the wedding, she marries Edward Plummer, a former 
lover, who suddenly returns after a long absence, and whom she 
has believed to be dead. (Chirp 2d, 3d.) 

Wielding, Mrs. Her mother; a little, querulous chip of an old 
Judy with a peevish face, and a most transcendent figure (in right 
of having preserved a waist like « bedpost), She is very genteor 
and patronizing, in consequence of having once been better off, or of 
laboring under an impression that she might have been, if something 
tad happened (in the indigo-trade) which never did happen, and 
seemed to have never been particularly likely to happen. (Chirp 
‘2d, 3d.) = 

2 





She Eclewet on the Meartd. 253 


Peerybingle, John. A large, sturdy man, much older than his 
wife, but “the best, the most considerate, the most affectionate, of 
husbands” to her. (Chirp Ist-8d.) 


‘He was often near to something or other very clever, by his ows account, 
thls Inmbering, slow, honest John; this John so heavy, but #0 light uf spieit; 
‘s0 rough upon the surface, but so gentle at the core; so dull without, 30 quick 
within; so stolld, bat #0 good! O mother Nature! give thy children the true 
pootey of heart that hid (tself In this poor carrier's breast,—he was but = 
carrier, by the way,—and we can bear to ave them talking prose, and leading 
lives of prose, and bear to bless thee for thelr company, 


Peerybingle, Mrs. Mary, called Dor from her small size. His 
wife, a blooming young woman, with a very dollofa baby. (Chirp 
Ist-Bd.) 

Plummer, Caleb. A poor toymaker in the employ of Tackleton ; 
‘a spare, dejected, thoughtful, gray-halred old man, wholly devoted 
to his blind daughter. (Chirp 1st-$d.) 

Plummer, Bertha, His daughter, a blind girl. With her father, 
she lives in “a little cracked nutshell of a wuoden house, . - . 
stuck to the premises of Gruff und Tackleton like » barnacle to a 
ship's keel.” 

Thave said that Caled and his poor blind daughter lived here. Ishould have 
‘sald that Calob tived here, and his poor blind daughter somewhere else, —In an 
enchanted home of Calcb’s furnishing, where scarelty and shabbiness were not, 
and trouble never entered. Caleb was no sorcerer, bat In the only magic art 
that still remains tous, —the magic of devoted, deathloss love. Nature had been 
the mistress of his study; und from her teaching all the wonder cane. 

‘The blind girl never knew that ceilings were discolored; walls blotched, and 
bare of plaster here and thero; high crevices unstoppod, and widening every day; 
‘beams mouldering, and tending downward. The blind girl never knew that 
fron was rusting, wood rotting, paper peeling off; the #lze and shape, and true 
proportion of the dwelling, withering away. The blind girl never knew that 
‘ugly shapes of delf and earthenware were on the board; that sorrow and faint= 
beurtedness were in the house; that Caleb’e seanty hairs were turaing grayor 
gad more gray béfore her sightless face. The blind girl never knew they had 
master cold, exacting, and uninterested; never knew that Taokieton was 
‘Tackloton, in short, but lived in the belief of an cecentrio humorist, who loved 
to have his Jest with them, and who, while he was the guardian augel of their 
Hives, disdained to hear one word of thankfulness, 

And all was Caleb’s doing; all the doing of her simple futher! 


‘The consequence of this well-meant but illjudged deception is, 
that Bertha comes secretly to love Tackleton with unspeakable af 
fection and gratitude, and is nearly heart-broken on finding that he 
‘means to marry May Fielding. This compels her father to tell her 
saw truth; to confess that he as altered objects, changed the char 

* scters of people, invented many things that never haw’ peen, te 
2 














UM Ede Dickens Mictlonacg. 


make her happier. The shock to ber sensitive nature Is great; but 
instead of losing her confidence in him, she clings to him all the 
‘more closely, and cherishes him all the more devotedly, for his inno- 
cent deceit, springing from motives so pure and unselfish. (Chirp 
2d, 90.) 

Lovely as the character of Bertha is, it cannot be said to be 
true to nature; and there is much justice in the following criticism 
from The London “Times :"— 

“Ho, Mr, Dickens, aronottho blind misled, Fexquisite are tho spared senses, mercifully 

strengthened by Providence to make amends for the one tremendous deprivation. ‘The 
Flagers of tho bitnd read the UibI0; the ears of tho blind —the Agure is bold one—see 
‘the friendly vialtor long before you or I, even whilat his foot ls Lingering at the Uhresbold. 
‘Would you have as bellove that touch, feeling, hearing. remained for twenty years tor- 
pid and dead tu the sensitive creature whom yoo have spolled by your perversion? We 
‘tell you, and not without good warrant for the aasartion, that no man living, 
‘or master, has power to atop up the avenues through which knowledge rashes to the 
001 of a poor Innocent deprived of alght. Bectha, by your own account, had ried in 
‘he world: sho talked wisely, and even profoundly, on abstruse matiers; she worked 
‘with her father; she knew every toy In the room, and where to seek It, end how th 
‘make ts she wns in daily {ntercourse with those who knew the charsoter of Tackle 
‘on, and who spoke of him with freedom. And yet you ask us to belleve that this young 
Juss, all feeling and perception, never know * that walls were blotched, and bare of plas 
ter here and thero; that iron was rusting, wood Totting, paper peeling off; that sorrow 
and fulnt-heartodnes wore In the house: that they had @ master cold, exacting, un- 
tnterosted." If we believe you, It must be when Nature proves a Nar. 


Plummer, Edward. Son to Caleb, and brother to Bertha Plum- 
mer. After along absence in the “Golden South Americas,” he 
returns to claim the hand of May Ficlding, to whom he had been 
engaged before leaving home, Hearing, when twenty miles away, 
that she has proved false to him, and is about to marry old Tackle 
ton, he disguises himself as an old man, for the sake of observing 
and judging for himself, in order to got at the rea. and exact truth, 
Tle makes himself known to Mrs. Peerybingle (" Dot”), who ad- 
vises him to keep his secret close, and not even to let Mr. Peery. 
bingle know it, he being much too open in his nature, and too clumsy 
in all artifice, to keep it for him, She also offers to sound his sweet 
heart, and to go between them, and bring them together, which she 
does, and has the pleasure of seeing thom married, and of express: 
ing a hope that Tackleton may die a bachclor. Hor mediation, 
however, becomes known, in part, to her husband, who misconstrace 
her actions, and suspects her of being untrue to himself, But in the 
end every thing is satisfactorily explained, and overybody is made 
happy ; while even the kettle hums for joy, and the cricket joins the 
wusic with its “Chirp, chirp, chirp.” (Chirp 1st-8d.) 


Tbe Ericket on the Mearth. 253 


Blowboy, Tilly. Mrs. Peerybingle’s nursery-maid; a great, 
clumsy girl, who is very apt to hold the baby topsy-turvy, and who 
has a habit of mechanically reproducing, for its entertainment, 
scraps of current conversation, with all the sense struck out of them, 
and all the nouns changed into the plural number, a when she 
asks, “ Was it Gruff and Tackletons the toy-makers, then?” and 
“Would it call at pastry-cooks for wedding-cakes?” and “ Did its 
mothers know the boxes when its fathers brought them home?” 
and soon. (Chirp 1st-3d.) 

Tackleton, called Grovr axp Tackietox. <A toy-merchant, 
stern, ill-natured, and sarcastic, with one eye always wide open, and 
one eye nearly shut. 

Cramped and chafing In the peaceable pursult of toy-maklag. he was a do- 
meatio ogre, who had been living on children all his life, and was thelr imple 
cable enemy. He despised all toys; would n't have bought one for tho world; 
delighted, in his malice, to insinuate grim expressions Into the faces of brown 
paper farmers who drove pigs to market, bolimen who advertised lost lawyers? 
consciences, movable old ladfes who darned stockings or earred ples, and other 
ike samples of his stock in trade. In appalling masks, hideous, halry, red-oyed 
Jacks in boxes, vampire kites, demonincal tumblers who would n't lie down, 
‘and were perpetually flying forward to stare infants out of countenance, his 
soul perfectly reveled. They were his only relief and safety-valve. 

After the marriage of his betrothed, May Fielding, to Edward 
Plammer (see above), he turns his disappointment to good account 
by resolving thenceforth to be, and by actually becoming, a pleasant, 
hearty, kind, and happy man. (Chirp ist-Sd.) 








The Battle of Life. 


A LOVE-STORY. 


—— 


Ponnisitep In 1446, with a frontispiece and titlepage engraved on wood, frem 
drawings by Maclise, and with woodcuts Loserted in the text, from designs by 
Doyle, Leech, and Staniield. 





CHARACTERS INTRODUCED. 


Britain, Benjamin, called Lirrte Berrars., A small man with 
an uncommonly sour and discontented fice ; servant to Doctor Jod- 
dler, afterwards husband of Clemency Newcome, and landlord of 
the Nutmeg Grater Inn. He gives this summary of his general 
condition: “I don’t know any thing; I don't care for any thing; 
I don’t make out any thing; I don't believe any thing; and I 
don’t want any thing.” (Part 1-3.) 

Craggs, Mr. Thomas. Law-partner of Jonathan Snitchey. He 
seems to be represented by Snitchey, and to be conscious of little 
or no separate existence or personal individuality. (Part 1, 2.) 

Craggs, Mrs. His wife. (Part 2.) 

Heathfield, Alfred. A young medical student; a ward of Doc- 
tor Jeddler’s, and engaged to his younger danghter Marion. On 
coming of age, he starts on a three-years’ tour among the foreign 
schools of medicine, In the very hoyr of his return, Marion flees 
from home, eloping, as it is supposed, with a young bankrupt named 
Michacl Warden, After a time, her elder sister Grace becomes 
Alfred’s wife; and it finally transpires that Marion, though deeply 
loving him, discovers that Grace also loves him, and, deeming herself 
to be less worthy of such a husband, sacrifices her own happiness to 
insure her sister's. But, instead of cloping with young Warden, she 
retires to an aunt's, who lives at a distance, where she remains se- 
cluded until after her sister's marriage has taken place. (Part 1-8.) 

Jeddler, Doctor Anthony. A great philosopher, the heart and 

250 











Ede Battle of ite. 257 


mystery of whose philosophy is to look upon the world as a gi- 
gantic practical joke, or as something too absurd to be considered 
seriously by any practical man. But the loss of his favorite dangh- 
ter, “ the absence of one little unit in the great absurd account,” 
strikes him to the ground, and shows him how serious the world is, 
“in which some love, deep-anchorwd, is the portion of all human 
creatures.” (Part 1-3.) 

Jeddler, Grace. His elder daughter; married to Alfred Heath- 
field. (Part 1-3.) See Heararrenp, ALFRED. 

Jeddler, Marion. His younger daughter. (Part 1-3.) See 
Heaturimen (Atrrep), Wanpes (Micnaxt). 

Martha, Aunt. Sister to Doctor Jeddler. (Part 8.) 

Newcome, Clemency. Servant to Doctor Jeddler; afterwards 
married to Benjamin Britain. (Part 1-3.) 

‘She was about thirty years old, and had a sufictently plump and cheerful fnew, 
ADongh it was twistod up into an o(td expression of tightness that made lt comical ; 
‘Dut theextraordinary homeliness of her galt and manner would have superseded 
‘any face in the world. To #ay that she hnd two left ngs, and somebody else's 
‘arms; and that all four limbs seemed to be out of joint, and to start from per- 
feotly wrong places when they wero sot In motion, — is te offer the mildest outline 
of the reality. To eay that she was perfectly content and sntlatied with these 






Just as it happened, —Is to render falut Justice to their equanisnt 
‘was a prodigious pair of self-willed shoes that never wanted to go where her 
foot went, blue stockings, » printed gown of many colors and the most hideces 
pattern procurable for money, and a white apron. She always wore short steerer, 
and always had, by some necident, grazed elbows, in which ale took so lively an 
Interest, that she was continually trying to turn them round and get impossible 
‘views of them. In general, a little cap perched somewhere on her head, though 
tt was rarely to be met with In the place usually occupied in other subjects by 
that article of dress; but from head to foot she was ecrupalously clean, and 
malntatoed a kind of dislocated tidinors, Indeed, hor laudable anxiety to be 
‘tidy and compact in her own conscience, as well as in the public eye, gave rise 
40 one of her most atartling evolutions, which was to grasp herself sometimes 
by n sort of wooden handio (part of hor clothing, and familiarly called a twaxk) 
and wrestle, as it were, With her garments, until they fell into m symmotrionl nz 
ravgement. 

Snitchey, Jonathan, Law-partnerof Thomas Crages. (Part1-8.) 

Snitchey, Mrs, His wife. (Part 2.) 

‘Warden, Michael, A client of Messrs. Snitchey and Cragg; a 
man of thirty who has sown a good many wild onta, and finds his 
affairs to be in a bad way in consequence. He repenta, however, 
and reforms and finally mar-ies Marion Jeddler, whom he has long 
loved. (Part 2, 3.) 

a 

















Dombey and Fon. 





‘On Lhe first cf Ootober, 1846, Messrs. Bradbury and Son issued the first num- 
der of a now serial novel, under tHe title of “Dealings with the Firm of Dombey 
and Son, Wholesale, Retail, and for Exportation.” Each part was illustrated 
with two engravings on atecl by Hablot 1. Browne (“Phiz”). The publication 
of the work extended over twenty months; and on its completion, tn 1888, it waa 
brought out in a single octavo volume, and was “Dedicated with great esteem to 
the Marchlonoss of Normanby.” 


OHARACTERS INTRODUCED. 


Anne, <A housemaid at Mr. Dombey’s, beloved by Towlinson, the 
footman. (Ch. xviii, xxi, xxxv, lix.) 

Bagstock, Major Joseph. A retired army officer, wooden- 
featured and blue-faced, with his eyes starting out of his head. 
Ho is a near neighbor of Miss Tox, between whom and himself an 
occasional interchange of nowspapers and pamphlets, and the like 
Platonic dalliance, is effected through the medium of a dark ser 
vant of the major’s, whom Miss Tox is content to designate asa 

without connecting him with any geographical idea what- 





“native, 
ever. 


Although Major Bagvtock had arrived at what 4 called fn polite literature 
ne grand meridian of life, and waa proceeding on his Journey down hill with 
‘ardly any throat, anda very rigid pair of Saw-bones, and long-fapped elephane 

sano cars, and his eyes and complexion In the state of artificial excitement ale 
remly mentioned, he was mightily prond of awakening an interest in Alex Tox, 
and tickled his vanity with the fiction that she was a splendid woman, who had 
her eyeon him. This he had several times hinted at the club, {n connection 
with little Jocularities, of which old Joo Bagstock, old Joey Bagstook, old 3 
Bagstock. old Josh. Bagstock, or so forth, was the perpetual theme; it being, 
‘as It were, the major's stronghold and donjon-keep of light humor to be om the 
most familiar terms with bis own name, 
238 











Dombep anv Son. 259 


* Joey B., sir," tho major wouldsay, with a flourish of his walking-stfck, ‘Is 
worth dozen of you! If you had m few more of the Bagstock breed among 
‘you, sir, youd be none the worse for it. Old Jos, sir, need n’t took far for a 
‘wife, ren now, If he was on the lookout: but he's hart-hearted, sir, is Joe 
he’s tough, sir,—tough, and do-vilish sly!” After such declaration, whees 
Ing sounds would be heard; and the major’s blue would deepen into perple, 
‘while bis eyes strained and started convulaively. 

And yet Mie Tox, ne aypenrd, forgo him.— gradatlly forgot ha. She 








tinued to forget him up to the time of the christening: np mea forgetting 
‘him with compound interest after that. Something or somebody had supar- 
seded him asa source of interest. 

“Goodmorning, ma'am!” sald the major, meeting Miss Tox in Princess's 
Place, some weeks after the changes chronicled In the Inst chapter. 

“ Good-morning, sir," said Miss Tox very coldly. 

“Joo Bagstock, ma’am,” observed the major with his umusl gallantry, “has 
not had the happiness of bowing to you mt your window for a considerable 
vn Rin pangs lp medbiaio cy un has been behind m 


“i Ton inctined her head, but very coldly indeed, 
“Joo's luminary has been out of town, ma’am, perhaps,” inquired the 


“Tout of town ? Ob, no! I bare not been out of town/" suid Miss Tox. “I 
have been much engaged lately, My time is nearly all devoted to some very 
intimate friends. Iam afraid I have none tospare oren wow, Goodmorning, 
wrt 

‘As Miss Tox, with her most fascinating step and carriage, disappeared 
from Princess’s Vlace, the major stood looking after her with a bloer face 
tan ever, mattering and growling some got at all complimentary remarks. 

“ Why, damme, sir!” sald the major, rolling bis lobster-eyes round and round 
Princess’s Fince, and apostrophixing its fragrant air, “six months ago, the 
‘woman loved tho ground Josh Bagstock walked on. What ’s the meaning 
ofr 

‘The major decided, after some consideration, that It meant man-traps; that 
Mt meant plotting and snaring; that Miss Tox was digging pitfalls, “ But you 
won't catch Joe, ma'am," the major, “ He's tough, ma’am; tough ls J. B, 
—tough and de-vilish sly!" Over which reflection he chuckled for the rest of 
the day. 

‘Tha major bocomes a friend and companion of Mr. Dombey, ln- 
troduces him to Edith Granger and Mrx Skewton, and plays the 
agreeable. to the mother, while Mr. Dombey makes love to the 
daughter. (Ch. vii, x, xx, xxi, xxvi, xxvii, xxxi, xxxvi, xl, lh, 
liz, Ix) 

Baps, Mr. Dancing-master at Doctor Blimber’s; a very grave 
gentleman with a slow and measured manner of speaking. 
(Ch. xiv) 

Baps, Mra. His wife. (Ch. xiv.) 

Gerinthia, called Beexr. Nieco and dradge to Mrv. Pipchin, 














260 The Michens Wietlenacp, 


whom she regards as one of the most meritorious persons in the 


world, She is a good-natured spinster of middle age, but posses» 
ing a gaunt and fron-bound aspect, and much afflicted with boily 
on her nose. (Ch. viii, xi.) 

Biler. See Toopte, Rovrs, 

Bitherston, Master. A child boarding at Mrs, Pipchin’s; a boy 
of mysterious and terrible experiences. (Ch. vili, x, xli, Ix.) 

Blimber, Doctor. Proprietor of an expensive private boarding: 
school for boys, at Brighton, to which Paul Dombey is sent to ba 
educated. 

‘The doctor was» portly gentleman, In a sult of black, with strings at his 
knees, and stockings below them. He had a bald-head highly polished, a deep 
voler, and ® chin s0 very double that It was a wonder how he ever managed to 
shave {nto tho crésses, He had likewise « patr of little eyes that wore nlways 
half shut up, and a mouth that was always half expanded {nto a grin, ae Sf he 
had that moment posed a boy, and were waiting to convict him from his wa 
Hips. . . . The doctor's walk was stately, and calculated to linpress the Juvenile 
mind with solemn feelings. It was m sort of march; but, when the doctor put 
‘ut his right foot, he gravely turned upon his axis, with m semicireular sweep 
towards the teft; and, when ho put out hia left foot, he turned in the xame man 
une towards the right: so that he seemed, at every stride he took, to look about 
him, as though he were aaying, “Can anybody have the goodness to indicate 
‘any subject, in any direction, on which fam uninformed? I rather think 
not. 

‘Whenever a young gentleman was taken in hand by Doctor Bllmber, he 
might consider himnelf sure of a pretty tight squeeze, ‘The doctor only under- 
took the charge of ten young gentlemen; but he had always ready a supply of 
Jearsing for a hundred, on the lowest eatimato; and ft was at once the business 
‘and delight of his life to gorge the unhappy ten with it. 

In fact, Doctor Bllmber's establishment was a great hot-bowse, In which 
there was a forcing apparatus incessantly at work. All the boys blow before 
thelr time, Mental green-peas wore prodaced at Christmas, snd intellectual 
‘asparagus all the year round. Mathematical gooseberries (very sour ones too) 
werv common at untimely seasons, and from mere sprouts of bushes, under Doo 
tor Blimber’s cultivation. Every description of Greek and Latin vegetable was 
gotoff the deyest twigs of boys, under the frostiest ciroumstances. Nature was 
of no consequence at all, No matter what a young gentleman was Intended 
to bear, Doctor Blimber made him bear to pattern, somehow or other. 


(Ch. xi, xii, xix, xxiv, xi, lx.) 


Blimber, Mrs, His wife. 
Mrs. Blimber, . . . was not learned herself; but she pretended to be: and 
‘that did quite aa well, She sald at evening parties, that, if she could have 
known Cicero, she thought she could have died contented, It was the steady 
Joy of her life to see the doctor's young gentlemen go out walking, anlike al, 
other young gentlemen, In the largest possible ehirt-collars and the atiffest pos 
siblo cravats. It was so classical, abo said, 


(Ch, xi, xii, xix, xxiv, xl, Ix.) 

































Dombep anv Soa 264 


Blimber, Miss Cornelia. The daughter; a elim and gravefu. 
maid. (Ch. xi, xii, xiv, xli, 1x.) 

‘There was no light nonsense about Miss Blimber. She kept her halr short 
and crisp, nud wore spectacles. She was dey and sandy with working in 
the graves of deceased languages, None of your live languages for Mies 
Bilmber. ‘They must be dead, —stone dead; aud then Miss Wlimper dug them 
‘up like « ghoul. 

Blookitt, Mrs. Mrs. Dombey’s nurse; n simpering piece of faded 
gentility. (Ch. i.) 

Bokum, Mrs. A friend of Mrs, MacStinger g, and her bridesmaid 
‘oni the oveasion of her marriage to Jack Bunsby. (Ch. Ix.) 

Briggs. A pupil of Doctor Blimber's, and the room-mate of Paul 
Dombey. (Ch. xii, xiv, xli, lx.) 

Brogley, Mr. A sworn broker and appraiser, and second-hand fur- 
niture-dealer; a friend of Sol. Gills. (Ch. ix.) 

Brown, Alice, alias Atick Manwoop. A handsome woman of 
about thirty years of age; a former mistress of James Carker. 
After suffering transportation for crime, she comes back to England 
filled with scorn, hate, defiance, and recklessness, (Ch. xxxili, 
xxxiy, xl, xlvi, lii, lii, Iviii.) 

Brown, Mrs,, called (by herself) Goop Mrs. Brow. Her mother; 
avery ugly old woman, with red rims round her eyes, and a mouth 
that mumbled and chattered of itself when she was not speaking. 
(Ch. vi, xxvii, xxiv, x1, xlvi, lil, Ivili.) 

Bunaby, Captain Jack. Master of a vessel called “ The Cautious 
Clara,” and a warm friend of Captain Cuttle, who looks up to him as 
anoracle. Fearing that the vessel on which her friend Walter Gay 
has taken passage is lost, Florence Dombey, accompanied by her 
maid, Susan Nipper, goes to Captain Cuttle for advice. Walter's 
uncle, Sol Gills, is also very much distressed about his nephew ; and 
the captain, being a fricnd of all parties, tries to re-assure them. 
Not being quite cqual to the occasion, however, he fortunately 
bothinks himself of Jack Bunsby. 


With regard to old Sol Gills,” here the captal: became colema, “who fl 

stand by, and not desert until death doe us part, cad when the ot 
do blow, do blow, do blow,—overhau! the catechis: 
‘thetically, “and there you ‘Il find them expressions, —if It would com 
Gills to have the opinion of # seafaring man as has got a sniud equal to way 
undertaking that he puts it alongside of. wad ws was all but smashed in his 
Yprentloeship, and of which the uame is Bunsby. that ‘ere man shall give 
‘him such an opinion in bik own parlor as "ll stan him. Ab!” sald Captale 
Cuttle vauatihgly, “as much as if ue'd gone and knocked his head again « 
door!” 
















a 





262 Ebe Pickens Mictionar 





They accordingly go to see Captain Bansby, and, under the piloty 
age of Captain Cuttle, board “ The Cautious Clara.” 


Immediately there appeared, coming slowly up above the bulkhead of the eabin. 
snother Valkbead,—human and very large,—with one stationary ee In the 
mahopiny face, and one revolving one, on the principle of some Hghthouses 
‘This hend was decorated with shaggy husir, ike oakum, which had no governing 
Inclination towards the north, cast, west, or aouth, but inclined 1 all four quartere 
‘of the compass, and to crery point upon It. The head was followed by a perfeet 
desert of chin, and by a shirt-collar and neckerchief, and by a dread-nonght pilot 
‘coat, and by a pair of dread-nought pilot-trousers, whercof the waistband was 
#0 very broad and high, thot {t became o succedaneum for a walsteoat, belong 
‘ornamented near the wearer's breastbone with same massive wooden buttons Hike 
tuckgammon-men, Ax the lower portions of thers pantaloons became revealed, 
Runsby stood confessed; his hands in thelr pockets (which were of vast slzn), 
‘and bla gaze directed not to Captain Cuttle or the ladies, but the mast-head, 

+ ++ Whispering to Floronce that Bonsby had never in his life expressed sur- 
prise, and was considered not to know what it meant, the eaptaln watched him ax 
he eyed his mast-head, and afterwards swept the horizon; and, when the revolving 
eye seemed tobe coming round in his direction, suid, — 

“ Bunsby, mylad, how fares 1?” 

A decp, gruff, husky utterance, which seemed to have no connestlon with 
Bunsby, and certainly had not the least effect upon hls face, replied. “Ay, ay, 
shipmet, how goos it?” At the same time, Bunsby's right hand and arm, emer- 
ging from a pocket, shook the eaptaln’s, and went back again, 

 Bunsby,” «nid the captain, striking home at once, ‘‘here you are,—a man of 
mind, and a man as ean glye an opiuion. Here’ a young lady as wants to take 
‘that opinion In regard of my friend Wal'r; likewise my tother friend, Sol Gills, 
which {* a character for you to come within bail of, being a man of science, 
‘which is the mother of inwention, and knows no law. Buusby, will you ware, to 
oblige me, and come along with ua?” 

‘The great commander, who seemed by the expression of his viange to be always 
‘on the lookout for something in the extremest distance, and to have no ocular 
knowledge of any thing within ten miles, made no reply whatever, 

He finally consents to go with them, however, and at last delivers 
the following “ opinion :" — 

“My name *% Jnok Bunsby 1 

“ He was chiristened John,” erled the delighted Captain Cutth 

“And what I says.” pursued the voice, after some deliberation, 

‘The captain, with Florence on hix arm, nodded ut the auditor 
Now hos comlug out! This {s what I meant when T broug! 

“ Whereby,” proceeded the voice, “why not? Ifso, what odds? Can any man 

yy otherwise? No. Aqwast then!” 

‘When it had pursued its train of argument to this point, the voice stopped 
‘ani rested. Tt then proceeded very slowly, thua:— 

“Do E belleve this here Son and Heir’ gone down, my lade? Mashap. Dot 
ways? Which? If a skipper stands out by Sen’ George’s Channel, muking for 
he Downe, what “s right ahead of him? The Goodwins. He ts n't foreed to ran 
upon the Goodwins; but he may. ‘The bearings of this observation lays in. the 
»pplication on It. That n't no part of my duty. Awast then, keep « bright 
okout for'ard, and good luck to yout” 














Dombey and Son 263 


‘The voice here went out of tho back-parlor and {nto the street, taking the 
‘commander of “ The Cautious Clara” with it, and necompanying him on board 
again with all convenient expedition, where ho immediately turned in, and ro 
freshed his mind with a nap. 

Notwithstanding his sagacity and independence, Captain Bunsby 
is finally captured and married, perforce, by his landlady, Mrs, Mac 
Stinger. (Ch, xxviii, xxix, Ix.) 

Sarker, Harriet. Sister of John and James Carker; afterwards 
the wife of Mr. Morfin. (Ch. xxii, xxiii, xxxiy, liii, lxii.) 
Carker, James. Mr. Dombey’s head clerk or manager. 

Mr. Carker was a gentleman thirty-olght or forty years old, of a florid com- 
plexion, and with two unbroken rows of glistening teeth, whore requir ext 
‘whiteness were quite distressing. It was impossible to escape the 
Sf thea: fare showed (hem whenerer he opok, abd Bore so widela walle xpoa 
his countennneo (a amile, however, very rarely Indeod, extending beyond his 
mouth), that there was something in it like the snarl of a ent. He affected = 
atlif white cravat, after the example of his principal, and was always closely 
buttoned upand tightly dressed, Mis manner towards Mr. Dombey was deeply 
conceived, and perfectly expressed. He was familiar with him fr the very ex- 
tromity of his sense of the distance between them. “Mr. Dombey, to a man ta 
your position, from o man {n mine, there ls no show of subservience compatibie 
with the transaction of business between ua that T should think sufficient. 1 
frankly tell you, air, I give itup altogether, I fee) that I could not satisfy my 
own mind; and Heaven knows, Mr. Dombey, you can afford to dispense with the 
endeavor." If he had earried these words about with him printed on a placard, 
‘and had constantly offered it to Mr. Dombey’s perusal on the breast of his cont, 
he could not hare been more expiteit than he was. 

Enjoying the confidence of his employer, Mr. Carker speculates 
on his own account, and amasses a fortune, When Mr. Dombey 
marries a second time, Carkcr observes that there is no love or sym- 
pathy in the caso, and that both partios arc of a proud and unyield- 
ing disposition ; and he secretly takes advantage of the confidence 
reposed in him by Mr. Dombey to increase the constantly widening 
breach between husband and wife. Goaded to desperation by the 
conduct of Mr. Dombey in making his clerk the medium of com- 
municatiag his directions to her, but equally despising both man 
and master, Mrs. Dombey revenges herself on her husband by 
eloping with his clerk, and on the clerk by taunting him with his 
suppored victory, and leaving him, in the very hour of his antici- 
pated triamph, to the vengeance of ber husband, who has pursaed 
them. In trying to avoid Mr. Dombey, whom be accidentally en- 
‘counters at a rallway-station, he staggers, slips on to the track, and 
3 killed by a passing train. (Ch. xiii, xvii, xxii, xxiv, xxvi, xxvii, 
axxi, xyxiii, xxxvi, xxxvil xl, xlii, xlv, xlvi, slvli, lii-lv.) 














264 The Pickens Mlctlonarp. 


Carker, Mr. John. Brother of James and Harriet Carker, and 
under-clerk at Dombey and Son’s. When a young man, he had 
‘been led astray by evil companions, and had robbed his employers, 
who had reposed great confidence in him. His guilt was soon dis 
covered; but the house was merciful, and, instead of dismissing him, 
retained him in a subordinate capacity, in which he made expine 
tion for his crime by long years of patient, faithful service, After 
the clopement of his brother James with Edith Dombey, he is dis 
charged; but, by the sudden death of his brother, he comes into 
possession of a fortune, the interest of which, when Mr. Dombey 
‘becomes a bankrupt, he secretly makes over to him year by year as 
if it were the repayment of an old lost debt. (Ch. vi, xix, xxii, 
xxxili, xxxiy, lili, lviii, Lxii.) 

Chick, Mr. John, Brother-in-law to Mr. Dombey; a stout, bald 
gentleman with a very large face, and his hands continually in his 
pockets, and with a tendency to whistle and hum tuncs on every 
sort of occasion, (Ch. ii, ¥, xxix, xxxvi.) 

Chick, Mrs. Louisa. His wife; sister to Mr. Dombey; a weak, 
good-natured, self-satisfied woman, very proud of her family and 
of having always tried, as sho puts it, to“ make an effort” (Ch. i, 
il, v-viil, x, xviii, xxix, xxxvi, li, lix.) 

Chicken, The Game. See Gamn Cnrcxex, Tux, 

Chowley. See MacSrixcer, Cuances. 

Clark, Mr. A clerk of Mr. Dombey's. (Ch. vi.) 

Cleopatra, Sce Skewrox, Mus. 

Cuttle, Captain Haward. Protector of Florence Dombcy, friend 
of Walter Gay, and friend and afterwards partner of Walter's 
uncle, Sol Gills. His first advent in the story is at the house of 
the latter at dinnertime, 


An addition to the little party now made its appearance in the shape of & 
gentloman Ln a wide sult of blue, with a hook instead of a band attached to bia 
right wrist, very bushy black eycbrows, and a thick etick In his left hand, 
covered all over (like his nose) with knobs. He wore a loose black silk hand- 
kerchief round his neck, h a very largo coarse shirt-collar, that Itlooked 
Mie @ small soil, Le we ly the person for whomn t 
was intended, and evidently knew it; for having taken off his 
and hung up on a particular peg behind the door such « hard glazed bat asa 
aympathetio person's head might ache at the ight of, and which left a red rim 
round his own forehead, as if he had been wearing a tight basin, he brought # 
chair to where the clean glass was, and sat himself down behind it. He wat 
usually addressed as captain, this visitor; and had been @ pilot, or a skipper, 
e 8 privatcersman, oF all three, perhaps; aud was s very saltlooking man tw 
deed. 





















Bombep anv Son. 265 


‘ils face, remarkable for a brown solidity, brighteaed ax he shook hanils with 
‘ncle wud nephew; bat he seemed to be of a lnconie disposition, and merely eald,— 

“How goes it?” 

« All well,” said Mr. Gihs, pushing the bottle towards him. 

Ee ins ene erat nee Sa eee 


The” 
© The," returned the Instrument-maker. 

Upon that he whistled a ho filed his glass, and seemed to think they ween 
‘making holiday indeed, 

© Wal'r!” he said, arranging hls bate (which was thin) with his hook, and then 
polnting It at the justrument-maker, “Look at him} Love! Movort And Obey! 
‘Overhaul your eatechism til! you find that passage, and when found turn the lent 
down. Success, my boy!" 

Ho was so perfectly satisfied both with his quotation and his reference to it, 
that he could not help repeating the words again in a low voice, and saying be had 
forgotten 'em these forty year. 

~ But I never wanted two or three words in my life that I didn't know where to 
lay my hand upon ’om, Gills,” he observed. “It comes of not wasting langunge 
‘as some do.” 

‘Tho reflection, perhaps, reminded him that he had better, like young Norval’ 
father, “increase his store.” At any rate, he became allent. 


Walter having been selected by his employer to fill a junior situa- 
tion in the counting-house at Barbadoes, a meeting of a few friends 
takes place at his uncle’s, at which Captain Cuttle is present. 


“ Weal'r/* sald the captain, when they took thotr seats at table, “if your uncle '* 
the msn I think him, he’ll bring out the last bottle of she Madelra on the present 
occasion.” 

“No, no, Ned!" returned the old man, “No! That shall be opened when 
‘Walter comes home again.” 

“Well sald” erled the eaptaia. “ Hear him!” 

“There it Hos,” anid Sol Gills, “ down tn the little cellar, covered with dirt and 
sobwebs. There may be dirt ahd cobwebs over you and me, perhaps, Ned, before 
Wt se0e the light.” 

* Hear him{" cried the captain. “Good morality! Wal'r, my lad. Traln.up 
& fig-tree In the way it should go, and when you are old sit undor the shade on it. 
Overhaul the— Well,” «aid the captain, on second thoughts “Tan’t quite certaln 
where that's to be found; but, when found, take & note of. Sol Gills, heave 
head sgain!" 

Old Sol and the captain accompany the lad on board the ship to 
sce him off, the former with moist eyes, the latter with a very grave 
face. 


‘The captain. . . drew Walter into a corner, and, with a great effort that made 
la face very red, pulled up the «tlver watch, which was so big, and 4o tight Ia his 
» that {t came out Iike a bang 
“Wal'r,” said the captain, hand.ng [t over, and shaking him heartily by the 
hand, “® parting gift, my iad. Put it back a half an hour every morning, and 
sbout # qaarter towards the arternoon, and [t's a watch that ‘ll do you oredit.” 
a 








Mn 





266 fhe Wickens Mietlonary 


(Ch. iv, ix, x, xv, xvii, xix, xxiii, xxv, xxii, xxxix, xlvili-t, Ivi, 
Ivii, Ix, Lxii.) See MacSrixoer, Mus. See p. 544, 

_Daws, Mary. A young kitchen-maid in Mr. Dombey's service. 
(Ch. lix.) 

Diogenes. A dog given by Mr. Toots to Florence Doubey, “as a 
sort of keepsake,” he having been a favorite with her brother, little 
Paul. (Ch. xiv, xviii, xxii, xxiii, xxviii, xxx, xxxi, xxv, xli, xliv, 
xlviii, xlix, J, Ivi, Lxii.) 

‘Though Diogenes was as ridiculous m dog as one would meet with on & sume 
‘mers day,—a laundering, ill-favored, clumsy, bullet-headed dog, continually aet- 
Ing on a wrong Idea that there was an anemy In the nolghborhood whom It was 
‘meritorious to bark t,—and though he was far from good-tempered, and core 
talnly was not clever, and had hair all over his eyes, and # comic nose, and an 
Anconsistent tall, and m gruif yoloe, be was dearer to Florence. . . than the 
‘most beautiful of his kind. 

Dombey, Mrs. Hdith. Mr. Dombey's second wift; daughter of 
Mrs, Skewton, and widow of Colonel Granger, She is a woman 
under thirty, very handsome, very haughty, and very wilful; pure at 
heart, but defiant of criticism. Though she feels neither love nor 
esteem for Mr. Dombey, and does not tempt him to seck her hand, 
yet she suffers him to marry her, content to be made rich so long as 
the transaction is understood to be a mere matter of traffic, in which 
beauty, grace, and varied accomplishments are exchanged for wealth 
and social position, As might be expected, the alliance proves to be 
a very unfortunate one. No friendship, 20 fitness for each other, no 
mutual forbearance, springs up between the unhappy pair; but in- 
difference gives place to aversion and contempt; arrogance is repaid. 
in kind; opposition arouses opposition, At last, Edith elopes with 
Mr. Carker, a confidential clerk of Mr. Dombey’s; and this ehe does 
with the double motive of revenging herself on her husband, and 
of befooling and punishing the clerk, who has pursued her from 
her wedding-day with humiliating solicitations and the meanest 
stratagems. But she leaves him in the very hour of their meeting: 
and he is killed by a passing train in trying to escape pursuit. 
(Ch, xxi, xxvi-xxvili, xxx, xxxi, xxxv-xxxvii, xl-xliii, xlv, xlvil, 
liv, Ixi.) See Skxwron, Mns. 

Dombey, Mrs. Fanny. Mr. Dombey’s first wife; mother of 
Florence and of little Paul. (Chi) See Domoey, Lirrux 
Pat. 

Dombey, Florence, Daughter of Mr. Dombey, and sister of 
little Paul. She is a loving and lovable child, but, not having haa 





Dombey and Son, 267 


the good fortune to be born a boy, is of no account in her father’s 
eyes. At first she is merely an object of indifference to him, but 
by degrees he comes to conceive a positive dislike for her, and at, 
Tast drives her from his house. She finally marries Walter Gay 
Junior clerk in Mr. Dombey’s bank. (Ch. i, ill, vy, vi, viti-xii, xiv, 
avi, xvili, xix, xxil-xxiv, xxvili, xxx, xxxv-xxxvil, xl, xli, xlijl-aly, 
xlvil-l, Ivi, lvii, lix, Ixi, Lxii.) See Domney (Mr), and Domnet 
(Lirtix Paur). 

Dombey, Little Paul, Mr. Dombey’s son and heir. His advent 
into the world is thus deseribed : — 

Rich Mr. Domboy sat in the corner of his wife's darkened bed-chamber, in the 
reat arm-chair by the bedside; and rich Mr, Dombey’s son lay tucked up warm 
in a little basket carefully placed on a low sottee in front of the sire, and cloce 
to it, as if his constitution were aralogous to that of a muffin, and ft was essen 
tial (o tonst him brown while he was vary new, 

‘Rich Mr. Dombey was about eight and forty years of age; rich Mr, Dombey’s 
son, about eight and forty minutes. Mr. Dombey was rather bald, rather red, 
and rather stern and pompous; Mr. Dombey’s son was very bald, and very red, 
‘and rather crushed and spotty in his general effect, ax yet, 

‘Me. Dombey, exulting tn the long-looked-for event, —the birth of a san, — 
Singled his heary gold watch-chiain as he at in his blue coat and bright buttons 
‘by the side of the bed, and said, — 

‘Our house of business will once again be not only in name, but fn fet, Dom- 
bey and Son; Dombey and Son!, Ho will be christened Paul, of course, — his 
father’s name, Mrs. Dombey, and his grandfather's. I wish bis grandfather 
were alive this day!” And again he sald. “Dom-bey and Son!” 

‘Thoso three words conveyed the one {dea of Mr, Dombey’s life. ‘The earth 
‘was made for Dombey and Son to trade in, and the sun and moon were made to 
give them light. Common abbreviations took new meanings in bla eyes, and 
had ole reference to them. A..D-had no eoncern with Anno Domini, but stood 
for Anno Dombel — and Son, 

He had been married ten years, nnd, until this present day on which he sat 
Jingling his gold watch-chain tn the great arm-chalr by the aide of the bed, had 
Jad no tern 

To speak of. Thero had been a girl somo six years before; and she, who 
had stolen into the chamber unobserved, was now crouching in a corner whence 
he could 400 her mother’s fhoe. Hut what was a girl to Dombey and Sout 

Mr. Dombes"s cup of satisfaction was #0 full, howerer, that he said, * Flor: 
nee, you may go and look at your pretty brother, if you like. Don": touch 
dim! * 

Little Paul's mother dies in giving him birth, and ke himeclf is 
put a weakling. 

Ir his steeple-chnse towards manhood, he found lt very rough riding, Every 
‘oot. was a break-neck fence, and every pimple in the measles a stone wall, to 
him, He was down In every fit of the whooplng-cough. Some bird of proy gut 
nto his throat, instead of the thruslt; and the very chickens, turning ferocious, 
—if they have muy thing to do with that infant malady to whisa they lend thets 
‘ame, — worried hilm like tiger-eats, 


































————— 





268 The Dickens Mictfonarp. 


The grow to be nearly five years old, —a pretty little fellow, but with something 

‘wan and wistful in his email face, that gave occasion to many slgnificant shaker 
of iis nurse’s head. She sald he was too old-fashioned. 
He was childish and sportive enough at times; bat he had a strange, welrd, 
‘thoughtful was, at other thmes, of sitting brooding in his salnisture arm-chalr, 
‘when he looked (and talked) like one of those terrible little belugs in the fulry> 
tales, who, at a hundred and fifty or twe hundred years of age, fantastically repre 
‘sent the children for whom they hare boen substituted, 


‘Mr. Dombey becomes uneasy ‘about this odd boy, and sends him to 
Brighton to board with an old lady named Pipchin, who has acquired 
an immense reputation as a manager of children. But little Paul 
grows more old-fashioned than ever, without growing any stronger; 
and his father, bent on his learning every thing, and being brought 
forward rapidly, resolves to make a change, and accordingly enrola 
him as a student in Dr. Blimber's educational establishment, which 
is conducted on the hot-house, or forcing, principle. His health con- 
tinues to fail, however, and at last he is taken home to die, 


Little Dombey had never risen from his little bed. He lay there, listening to 
the noises In the street, quite tranquilly; not caring much how the time went 
but watehing It, and watching every thing. 

‘When the sunbeams struck into his room through the rustling blinds, snd quir- 
‘rod on the opposite wall, like golden water, he knew that evening was coming on, 
‘und that the #ky was red and beautiful. As thy reflection died away, and a gloom 
‘went creeping ap the wall, he watched {t deepen, deepen, deepen, into might. ‘Then 
ho thought how the long unseen streets were dotted with amps, and how the 
poaceful stars were shining overhead. His fancy had a strange tendency to wan- 
der to the river, which he knew was flowing through the great clty; and now he 
thought how black it was, nnd how deep it would look reflecting the hosts of stars, 
‘und, more than all, how «teadily it rolled away to meet the sea. 

As it grew later in the night, and footateps in the street became #o rare, that he 
could hear them coming, count them as they passed, and loso them in the hollow 
distance, he would tle and watch the many-colored ring about the candle, and walt 
patently for day, Alls only trouble was tho swift and rapid river. Ife felt foreed, 
sometimes, to try to stop It,—to stem it with his ehildish bands, or choke tes way 
with sand; and when he saw it coming on, resistless, he eried out. But a word 
from Florence, who was always at his side, restored him to himself; and, leaning 
ils poor bead upon her breast 

Whien day begun to dawn again, he watched for the nd, when Its cheerful 
light began to sparkle In the room, he pictured to himself— pictured! he aaw— 
the high churot:towers rising up into the morning sky, the town reviving. waking, 
starting into life once more, the river glistening as it rolled (but rolling fist ax 
ever), and the country bright with dew. Familiar sounds and eries camo by de 
grees into the street below; the servants fn the house were rousedand busy; faces 
looked Ia at the door; and yolees asked his attendants softly how he was. Pau 
always answered for self, “ Lam better,—I am a great deal better, thank you, 
Toll pupa so. 

By little and little, he got tired of the bnstle of the day, the noise of eurringer 
and carts and people passing and repassing, and would fall aeloep, or be troubled 





















Bombey ans Son, 265 


with m restless and uneasy sense again. * Why, will it never stop, Floy?” he 
would sometimes ask her. “Tt fs bearing me away, T tink.” 

But she could alerays soothe and reassure him; and ft was hla dally delight to 
make her lay her head down on his pillow, and take some rest. . 

“You are always watching me, Floy; let me watch you now!” 

‘They would prop him up with cushions in a corner of bis bed, and there he 
‘would recline the while she lay beside him, bending forward oftentimes tokiss her, 
and whispering to those who were near, that she wns tired, and how she had eat 
te beside him. 
fh of the day, in Its heat and light, would gradually decline; and 
‘again the golden water would be dancing on the wall. 

‘The people round him changed unaccountably; and what had been the doctor 
‘wonld be his father, sitting with his head leaning on bis hand. ‘This gure, with 
its head leaning on Sts hand, returned so often, and remained so long, and sat 50 
Mill and solemn, never speaking. never being spoken to, and rarely lifting up ite 
‘woe, that Paul bogan to wonder languldly If it were real. 

“Floy, what fe that?” 

© Whore, dearest ?”” 

“There, at the bottom of the bed.” 

“Theres nothing there except papa.” 

‘The dgure lifted up its head and rose, and, coming to the bedside, anid, — 

“My own boy! don you know mo??? 

Paul looked {tin thefuce, Beforehe could reach out both his hands to take it 
between them, and draw ft towards im, the figure turned away quickly from the 
little bed, and went out at the door. 

‘The next time he observed the figure sitting at the bottom of the bed, he eatled 
wit. 

“Don't bo #0 sorry for me, dear papa. Indeed, T am quite happy!" 

His futher coming and bending down to him, he held him round the neck, and 
repeated those wonts to him several times, and very earnestly; and he never saw 
hie father in hiv room again at any time, whether it were day or wight, but he 
called ont, * Don%t be so worry for me! Indeed, Iam quite happy!" ‘This was the 
beginning of his always saying in the morning that he was a great deal better, and 
that thoy were to tell his father 40. 

Mow many times the golden water danced upon the wall, how many nlghts the 
dark river rolled towards the sea In spite of him, Paul never sought to know, If 
thelr kindness, oF hls sense of it, could bave increased, they were more kind, nnd 
ho more grateful, every day; but whether there were many days or few appeared 
6f little moment now to the gentle boy. 

One night he had been thinking of his mother, and her picture in the drawing 
room down staira. The train of thought suggested to him to ingulre if he had 
aver seen his mother; for he could not remember whether they bad told him yes 
$ no; the river running very fast, and confusing bis mind. 

« did [ ever see mamma?" 

No, darting: why? 

Did I never seo any kind face, ifce « mamma's, looking st me when I wae 
B baby. Floy?” 

Oh, yes, dear!” 

“Whose, Floy?”” 

“Your old nurse's. Ofer.” 

And where is my old nurse? Show me that old nurse, Floy, tf you pleare, 

“She fa not here, darling. She shall come to-morrow.” 

oe 











— — 





270 Epe Dickens M(ctlonacy. 


“Thank you, Floy!” 

Little Dombey closed his eyes with those words, and fell asleep. When be 
awoke, the sun was high, and the broad day was clear and warm. Then he 
awoke, — woke mind sud body,—and eat upright {ahis bed. Ike saw them now 
about him. There was no gray mist before them, as there had been soraetimes 
in the night. He knew them every one, and called them by thelr names. 

nd who Is this? Is this my old nurse?” asked the ehild, regarding with 
# rodiant mile a figure coming in, 

‘Yes, yeu. No other sttanger would have shed those tears at alght of him, 
‘and called him her dear boy, her protty boy, her own poor blighted child, No 
‘other woman would have stooped down by his bed, and taken up his wasted 
hand, and put tt to her lips and breast as one who had some Fight to fondle it. 
No other woman would havo so forgotten everybody there but him and Kloy, 
‘und been #0 full of tenderness and pity. 

“Flog, this {s a kind, good face! Iam glad to see it agal. Don't go away, 
old nurse, Stay here! (Goodby !” 

“Good-by, my child?” cried Mrs, Ppchin, hurrying to his bed’ head. “Not 
goodsby?” 

“Ah, yes! Good-by!— Where is papa?” 

Its father’s breath was on his check before the words had parted from his 
‘The feeble hand waved fn the alr, ns if St eried, “ Good-by!” again. 

(ow lay me down} and, Floy, come close to me, and lot me see you." 

Siater and brother wound thelr arms around each other, and the goldon Nght 
came streaming in, and fel! upon them locked together. 

“ How fust the river runs between its green banks and the rushes, Ploy. 
But its vory near the sea now. [hear the waves! ‘They always said so!” 

Presently he told her that the motion of the boat upon the stream was lull 
ing him to reat. Now the boat was out at sea; end now there was # shore 
before him. Who stood on the bank? 

He put his hands together as he had been used to do at his prayers. He 
did not remove his arms to do it; but they saw him fold them #0 beliind his sle- 
ter's neck, 

“ Mamma fs like you, Ploy. Tknow her by the face! But tell them that the 
picture on the stairs at school Is not divine enough. The light about the bead 
Asahining on me ns I go." 

‘The golden ripple on the wall came back again, and nothing else stirred in 
the room. The old, old, fashion! —the fashion that came in with our firat gar. 
‘ments, and will Inst unchanged until our race has run its course, and the wide 
firmament {s rolled up like @ seroll; the old, old fashion, —Death ! 

‘Oh, thank Gop, all who see it, for that older fishion yet of Immortality? 
And look upon us, angels of young children, with regards not quite estranged, 
‘when the ewift river bears us to the ocean! 








(Ch. i-iii, v-viti, x-xii, xiv, xvi.) 
Dombey:. Mr. Paul. A London merchant, very wealthy, very 
starched and pompous, intensely obstinate, and possessed by a 
conviction that the old banking-house of Dombey and Son is the 
central fact of the universe. He has a daughter Florence, who ia 
of no consequence in his eyes; and a son Paul, on whom all his 
hopes and affections centre, but who dies in childhood. Ho mar 





Dombey and Sow. wa 


ies for his second wifs a woman whose pride is equal to his own, 
and who not only has no love to give him, but refuses to render 
him the deference and submission which he exacts as his due. 
Goaded to desperation, at last, by his arrogance, and by the slights 
and affronts he puts upan her, she clopes, upon the anniversary of 
her marriage, with a confidential clerk whom he had chosen a¢ an 
instrument of her humiliation, content to wear the appearance of 
an adulteress (thongh not such in reality), if she can only avenge 
herself upon her husband. But Mr. Dombey, though keenly sensi- 
tive to the disgrace she has inflicted upon him, and haunted by the 
dread of public ridicule, abates no jot of his pride or obstinacy. 
‘Ho drives his daughter from his house, believing her to be an ac= 
complice of his wife, forbids the name of either to be mentioned in 
his presence, and preserves the same calm, cold, impenctrable 
exterior as ever. His trouble preys upon his mind, however; his 
prudence in matters of business deserts him ; and the great house 
‘of which he is the head soon goes down in utter bankraptey. But 
this crowning retribution proves a blessing after all; for it unders 
mines his pride, melts his obstinacy, and sets his injustice plainly 
before him. His daughter seeks him out, and in her home be 
passes the evening of his days, a wiser and « better man. (Ch. i- 
ili, v, vi, vill, x, xi, xlli, xvi, xvili, xx, xxl, xxvi-xxvill, xxx, xxxl, 
xxxy, xxxvi, xl-xliv, xlvii, li, 1li, Iv, lvili, lix, Ixi, leit.) See 
Domucy, Lirrix Paur. See also p. S44. 

Feeder, Reverend Alfred, M.A. A brother of Mr. Feeder, 
B.A. (Ch. lx.) 

Feeder, Mr., B, A, An assistant in the establishment of Blim- 
ber; afterwards his son-in-law and successor. (Ch. xi, xil, xiv, xli, 
Ix.) 

Feenix, Cousin. A superannuated nobleman, nephew to the Hon- 
orable Mrs. Skewton, and cousin to Edith Dombey. (Ch. xxxi, 
xxxvi, xli, li, Ixi.) 

‘Cousin Feenix was aman about town forty years ago; but he tx still #0 Jure 
antle in figure and manner, and so well got up, that stratigors are amazed when 
they discover latent wrinkles in his lordship’s face, and crow"efect in his eyes, 
and first observe him not exactly zertaln, when he walks across a room, of 
golng quite straight to where he wants to go. But Cousin Feentx gotting up 
at half-past seven o'clock, oF 40, i quite another thing from Cousin Feenix got 
up; and rery dim indeed he looks while belng shaved at Lang's Hotel, ia Bond 
Street. 

Plowers. Mrs. Skewton’s maid. (Ch xxvil, xxx, xxxv-xxxvil 
xi.) 











22 Ede Dickens Wietfonary. 


Game Chicken, The, A professional boxer and 
with very short hair, a broken nose, and a considerable tract of 
bare and sterile country behind each ear. He is a friend of Mr 
Toots, whom he knocks about the head three times a week for 
the small consideration of ten and six per visit. (Ch. xxii, xxviii, 
xxxii, xli, xliv, lvi.) 

Gay, Walter, A young man in the employ of Mr. Dombey; 
nephew to Sol Gills. He makes the acquaintance of Florence 
Dombey, and falls in Jove with her, but is soon afterward sent to 
Barbadoes to fill a junior situation in the counting-house there. 
The ship in which he sails is lost at sea, and it in long thought 
that he went down with her; but he finally returns, and marries 
Florence. (Ch. iy, vi, ix, x, xili, xv-xvli, xix, xlix, 1, lvi, lvii, Ixi, 

. si) See Currie, Carraix Epwarp. 

Gills, Solomon. A nautical instrument-maker; uncle to Walter 
Gay. When he hears of the loss of the ship in which his nephew 
has sailed, he goes abroad in quest of him, leaving his shop in 
the hands of Captain Cuttle. (Ch. iv, vi, ix, x, xv, xvii, xix, sxxii, 
xxiil, xxv, lvi, Ivii, Ixii.) See p. 544. 

‘To say nothing of his Welsh wig, which was ws plain and stubborn # Welsh 
vig ns ever was worn, and in which he looked like any thing but m rover, he 
was a slow, quict-spoken, thoughtful old fellow, with eyes as red as if they had 
deen amall suns looking at you through a fog; and a newly-awakened manner, 
such as he might have acquired by having stared for three or four days succes 
sively through every optical instrument in his shop, snd suddenly eome Back to 
the world again to find tt green, 

Glubb, Old. An old man employed to draw little Paul Dom- 
bey’s couch. (Ch. xii.) 

Granger, Mrs, Hdith. Ser Domery, Mrs. Eprra. 

Howler, The Reverend Melchisedech, A minister “of the 
ranting persuasion,” who predicts the speedy destruction of the 
world. He was formerly employed in the West India Docks, but 
was “discharged on suspicion of screwing gimlets into puncheons, 
and applying his lips to the orifice.” (Ch. xv, Ix.) 

Jemima, Mrs. Toodlo’s unmarried sister, who lives with her, and 
helps her take care of the children. (Ch. ii, vi.) 

Joe. A laborer. (Ch. vi.) 

John. A poor man with no regular employment; father of Martha, 
a deformed and sickly girl. (Ch. xxiv.) See Marrma. 

Jolinson, A pupil of Doctor Blimber’s. (Ch. xii, xiv.) 

Kate An orphan-child, visiting Sir Barnet and Lady Skotiles, at 











Dombey and Son. 73 


Fulham, with ber aunt, during Florence Dombey’s stay there. 

(Ch. xxv.) 

MacStinger, Alexander. Son of Mrs. MacStinger, aged two 
years and threa months. His mother never enters upon any action 
‘of Importance, without previously inverting him to bring him within 
range of a brik battery of slaps, and then setting him down on 
the street pavement; a cool paving-stone being usually found to act 
asa powerful restorative. (Ch. xxiii, xxv, xxix, lx.) 

MacStinger, Charles, called CoowLey by his playmates. An- 
other son of Mrs. MacStinger. (Ch. xxxix, lx.) 

MacStinger, Juliana. Mrs. MacStinger’s daughter; the very 
picture of he, snotner. “ Another year or two, the captain” [Cap- 
tain Cuttle] “thought, and to lodge where that child was would be 
destruction.” (Ch. xxy, xxix, Ix.) 

MacStinger, Mrs. Captain Cuttle’s landlady; a vixenish widow- 
woman, living at No. 9 Brig Place, near the India Docks, She 
exhibits # disposition to retain her lodgers by physical force, if 
necessary. The captain stands in mortal fear of her; though, as 
he says, he “never owed her a penny,” and has’“done her a 
world of good turns too.” Circumstances, howover, occur, that 
make it absolutely necessary for him to remove to another part of 
the city; and, as he dare not acquaint her with the fact, he resorts 
‘to stratagem to effect his purpose. 

En the silence of night, the captain packed up his heavier property In 
chest, which he locked, intending to leave it there, in all probability for ever, 
at on the forlorn chance of one day finding a man sufficiently Lold and desper- 
ate to come and ask for It. Of his lighter necessaries the captain made @ bun- 
die, snd disposed his plato about his person, ready for flight. At the hour of 
midnight, when Brig Place was buried in slamber.and Mre. MacStinger was 
Julled in sweet oblivion, with her fafunts around her, the guilry captain, ateal- 
Jog down on tiptos, in the dark, opened the door, closed it softly after him, 
‘and took to his heels, 

Purmed by the image of Mra. MacStinger springing out of bed, aud, regard- 
ae of costume, folowing and oringing him back, pursued also by a conscious 
‘uess of his enormous crime, Captain Cuttle neid on at n great pace,and all~wed 
30 grass to grow under his fect between Brig Place and the instrument-make. 
door, It opened when be knocked (for Rob was on the watch); and, when It 
‘was bolted und locked behind him, Captain Cuttle felt comparatively mafo, 

“Whew! erled the captain, looking round him, “it % a breather 

“ Nothing the matter; is thore, captaln ?" sried the gaping Rob. 

“No, no!” #1id Captain Cuttle, after changing color, and listening to a pase 
Jog footstep in the street. ‘But mind ye, my lad, if any lady, except either 
of them two as you see tothe” day, ever comes and asks for Cap'en Cattle, be 
sure to report no perso of that uame known, cor never heard of here, Observe 
thems orders; will you." 


















——  o 





ott Zbe Wickens Wietionars. 


“(Tl take care, exptain,” returned Rob, 

“You might say, if you liked,” hesitated the captain, “that you ‘d rend in the 
paper, that scsp'en of that mame was gone to Australia, emigrating aloug wita 
‘Swhole ship's. complement ‘of people as had all swore never to come back no 
more, 


‘Tho brave old salt takes great precautions against discovery and 
recapture; but Mrs. MacStinger finds him out at last, and descends 
upon him while he is engaged in a consultation with his friend Jack 
Bunsby. ‘The captain tries to effect his escape, but in vain; for he is 
stopped by the little MacStingers, who cling to his legs with loud 
screams of recognition. 


“0 Cap'en Cattle, Capen Cuttle!” sald Mra, MacStinger, making her chin 
rigid, and shaking it in unison with what, but for the weakness of her vex, might 
be described as her fist,—‘O Capen Cuttle, Cagren Cuttle! do you dare to look 
mo in the fice, and not be struck down tn the herth ?” 

‘The captain, who looked auy thing but daring, feebly muttered, “Stand by!” 

“Oh! Ewasa weak and trusting fool when I took you under my roof, Cap'en. 
Cuttle—Iwas!” cried Mrs, MacStinger. “To think of the benefits I've showered 
‘on that man, and the way in which I brought my children up to love and honor 
him ay If he was a father to "em; when there an’t a?ousekeeper, no nor a lodger, 
In our street, don't know that I lost money by that man, and by his guzzlings and 
his muszlings” (Mfrs. MacStinger used the last word for the Jolut sake of allitera: 
tion and aggravation, rather than for the expression of any idea); “and when they 
riod out one and alt, shame upon him for patting upon an industrious woman, up 
early and late for the good of her young family, and keeping her poor place #0 
cloan, that a individual might have ate hie dinner, yes, and his tea too, if he was 
10 disposed, off any one of the floors or stairs, in spite of all his guzzlings and 
is muzzlings, such was the eare and pains bestowed upon him!” 

‘Mra. MacStinger stopped to fetch her breath; and her fico flushed with tri 
tumph in thls second bappy Introduction of Captain Cuttle's muzzlings. 

And he runs awa-e-a-ay!” oried Mrs. MaoStinger, with a longthening-out of 
the last syllable that made the unfortunate captain regard himself as the meanest 
of men, “and keeps away a twelvemonth! From a woman! Sitch tx bis eon 
science! He has n't the courage to mect her hi-tiigh" (long syllable aguin), 
© but steals away ikea felion. . . . A pretty sort ofa man is Cap’en Cattle,""anld 
Mre, MucStinger, with a sharp stroas on the first syllable of the captain's name, 
“to take on far, and to lose sleep for, and to faint along of, and tothink dead, fore 
sooth, and to go up aud down the blessed town like a mad woman, asking ques 
tous after! Oh, a pretty sort of a man! Ha,ha, ha, hat Ho ‘worth all that 
troable and distress of mind, and much more. Thats nothing, bless yout ts, 
ba, ha, hat Capen Cuttle," ald Mrs. MacStinger, with severe reaction in her 
‘voice nnd manner, “ I wish to know if you "ro a-coming home.” 

‘The frightened captain looked into his hat, ns if be saw nothing for it but to 
pot it on, and give himself up. 

“Cap'en Cutie,” repeated Mrs, MacStingerin the same determined manger, 
* wish to kuow if you "re a-coming home, air.” 

‘The eaptaln seomod quite ready to go, but faintly suggested womething to the 
sffeot of not making s0 much nose about it.” 


‘The gallant captain is relieved, however, by Bunsby, who diverts 




















Dombep and Son 276 


the widow's attention from his friend, and soothes and softens her 
by a little delicate flattery, and by offering to “ conwoy ” ber home, 
which he does, returning, after ome hours, with the captain's chest, 
which is held to imply a relinquishment of any further claims upon 
\ the owner by his late landlady. Mrs, MacStinger subsequently 
marries Captain Bunsby. (Ch. ix, xvii, xxiii, xxv, xxxix, lvi, kx.) 

Martha. The danghter of a poor laboring-man, who finds it very 
difficult to get work to do. She is ugly, misshapen, peovish, ill-con- 
ditioned, ragged, and dirty, but dearly loved by her father, who 
robs himself, and makes his own life miserable, to add to her com- 
fort, (Ch. xxiv.) See Jou. 

Marwood, Alice. See Brows, Anice. 

‘Melia, A servant-girl at Doctor Blimber’s, (Ch. xii, xiv, xli:) 

Miff, Mrs. A wheezy litile pew-opencr; a mighty dry old lady, 
with « vinegary face, an air of mystery, and a thirsty soul for six- 
pencesand shillings. (Ch. xxxi, lvii.) 

Morfin, Mr. Head clerk at Dombey and Son's; a cheerful-looking, 
hazel-eyed, elderly bachelor, who befriends John Carker, and 
marries his sister Harriot. (Ch. xiii, xxxiii, lili, viii, Lxii.) 

Native, The. A dark servant of Major Bagstock’s, 80 called by 
Miss Tox, tough without connecting him with any geographical 
idea whatever. He has no particular name, but answers to any 
vituperative epithet. (Ch. vii, x, xx, xxi, xxvi, xxvii, xxix, lviii, 
Tix.) 

Nipper, Susan. Florence Dombey's maid; a short, brown, 
‘womanly girl, with a little snub nose, and black eyes like jet beads. 
Notwithstanding a peculiarly sharp and biting manner that she has, 
she is, in the main, a good-natured little body, and is wholly devoted 
to her mistress, She has the audacity to tell Mr. Dombey what 
she thinks of his treatment of his daughter, and is immediately 
discharged from that gentleman's service. She afterwards marries 
Mr. Toots, who considers her “a most extraordinary woman.” 
(Ch. ii, ¥, vi, xiii, xv, xvi, xviii, xix, xxii, xxiii, xxvili, xxxii, xliii, 
xiv, Ivi, Ivil, Ix-Ixii.) See Toors, Mr. P. 

Pankey, Mias, A boarder at Mrs. Pipchin's “select infantine 
boarding-house," worth “a good cighty pounds a year” to ber. 
(Ch. viii, xi.) 

Paul, Little, See Downey, Lrrre Pav. 

Peps, Doctor Parker, (Cow of the court physicians, and man 

~ of immense reputation for assisung at the increase of great families, 








276 The Dickens Dietlonarp. 


on which account his services are secured by Mr. Dombey when 
little Paul is born. (Ch. i, xvi.) 

Perch, Mr. Messenger in Mr. Dombey’s office, living (when at 
home) at Balls Pond. (Ch. xiii, xvii, xxii, xxiv, xxxi, xlvi, li, Iii, 
Wili, lix.) See p. S44. 

Perch, Mrs. His wife, always in an interesting condition. (Ch. 
xiii, xxii, xxi, xxxy, li, lili, Iviii, lix.) 

Pilking, Mr. Mr. Dombey's family physician, (Ch. 4, viii.) 

Pipchin, Mra, An old lady living at Brighton, with whom little 
Paul Dombey, accompanied by his sister Florence and a nurse, is 
sent to board. She afterwards becomes Mr. Dombey’s housekeeper. 

‘Mrs, Pipshin . . . had acquired wn immense reputation asa great manager” 
of children; and the secret of [her] management was to give them every thing 
that they did n't like, and nothing that they did. Mfrs. Pipchin had also founded 
great fame on belng w widow-lndy whose hneband had broken his heart in 
pumping water out of some Peruvian mines. This was a great recommenda- 
tion to Mr. Dombey;; for it hada rich sound. “Broke his heart of the Peruvian 
mines,” mused Mr. Dombey. ‘* Welll—a very respectable way of doing ite 

celebrated Mrs. Pipchin was a marvellous ili-favored, il-conditioned 
old lady, of a stooping fygure, with a mottled fuce Like bad marble, a hook nose, 
and w hard gruy eye, thut looked as if {t might have been hammered at on an 
anvil, Forty years, at lenst, had elapsed since the Peruvian mines hud been the 
death of Mr. Pipchin} but his relict still wore black bombazine. And she was 
such abitter old lady, that one was tempted to believe there hid been some mis 
take in the application of the Peruvian machinery, and that all her waters of 
gladness, and milk of human kinduess, had becn pumped out dry, fustead of 
the mines, 

The original of this character was a person with whom Dickens 
lodged when employed, at the age of ten years, in a blacking- 
warchouse. He speaks of her (Forster's Life of Dickens, vol i. p. 
56) as “a reduced old lady, long known to our family, in Little 
College Street, Camden-town, who took children in to board, and 
had once done so at Brighton; and who, with a few alterations 
and embellishments, unconsciously began to sit for Mrs. Pipchin in 
Domsry when she took in me.” (Ch. viii, xi, xi, xiv, xvi, 
xlii-xliv, xlvil, Ii, lix.) 

Richards. See Toopie, Pouty. 

Rob the Grinder. See Toopte, Rowry. 

Skettles, Lady. The wifs of Sir Barnet Skettles. (Ch. xiv 
xxi, xxiv, xxviii, Lx.) 

Bkettles, Sir Barnet. A member of the house of commons 
living in a pretty villa at Fulham, on the banks of the ‘Thames 
It was anticipated, that, when he did catch the speaker's eyes 

















Dombey and Son. 27 


(hich he had been expected to do for three or four years), he 
would rather touch up the radicals, His object in life is constantly 
to extend the range of his acquaintance. (Ch. xiv, xxiii, xxiv 
xxviii, Ix.) 

Bkettles, Barnet, junior. His son; » pupil of Doctor Blimber's 
(Ch. xiv, xxiv, xxviii.) 

Skewton, The Hon. Mrs., called Curoratra, ‘rom the name 
appended to a sketch of her published in her youth. Aunt to Lord 
Feenix, and mother to Edith Dombey. An old lady, who was once 
a belle, and who still retains, at the age of seventy, the juvenility 
of dress, the coquettishness of manner, and the affectation of 
speech, which distinguished her fifty years before. She parades 
her fair daughter through all the fashionable resorts in England in 
order to sell her to the highest bidder. She succeeds in making a 
‘yery “advantageous match " for her, but dies soon after, a hideous 
paralytic, demanding rose-colored curtains for her bed, to improve 
her complexion. (Ch. xxi, xxvi-xxviii, xxx, xxxv-xxxvii, xl, xli.) 

Sownds. A portentons beadle, orthodox and corpulent, who spends 
the greater part of his time sitting in the sun, on the church-steps, 
or, in cold weather, sitting by the fire, (Ch. v, xxxi, Ivii.) 

Toodle, Mr. Husband to Polly Toodle, and father to“ Rob the 
Grinder.” He is at first a stoker, but afterwards becomes an 
engine-driver. (Ch. ii, xv, xx, lix.) 

Toodle, Mrs. Polly, called Rrctanps by Mr. Dombey and his 
family. His wife; foster-mother of little Paul Dombey ; a plamp, 
rosy-cheeked, wholesome, apple-faced young woman with five 
children of her own, one of them being a nursing infant. (Ch. ii, 
iii, yvli, xv, xvi, xxii, xxxviii, Ivi, lix.) 

Toodle, Robin, called by the family Brcer (in remembrance of the 
steam-engine), otherwise styled Ron tux Grixper. Their sen, 
nominated by Mr. Dombey to a vacancy in tho ancient establish+ 
ment of * The Charitable Grinders ;” but the child meets with so 
much badgering from the boys in the street, and so much abuse 
from the master of the school, that he runs away. He afterwards 
Becomes the spy and instrument of Mr. Carker, and finally enters 
the service of Miss Tox with a view to his “restoration to respecte 
bility.” (Ch. ji, v, vi, xx, xxii, xxiii, xxv, xxxi, xxii, xxxvili, 
sxxxix, xlii, xlvi, lil, lix.) 

Toota, Mr. P. The eldest of Doctor Blimber’s pupils; a wealthy 
Young gentleman, with swollen nose and excessively large head, 

“ 

















278 Ebe Wickens Mictlonarp. 


of whom people did say that the doctor had rather overdone it with 
young Toots, and that, when he began to have whiskers, be left off 
haying brains. Having license to pursue his own course of study, he 
occupies his time chiefly in writing long letters to himself from persons 
of distinction, addressed “P, Toots, Exq, Brighton, Sussex,” which 
he preserves in his desk with great care. His personal appearance 
takes a great deal of his attention, and he prides himself especially 
upon his tailors, Burgess and Co., as being “fash'nable, but very 
dear.” His conversational ability is not remarkable; but bis deep 
voice, his sheepish manner, and his stock phrases, — of which “It'e 
of no consequence” is the most usual —are particularly noteworthy. 
‘Of his intellectual and social deficiencies he is by no means ignorant, 
however. “I am not what ia considered a quick sort of a person,” 
he says: “I am perfectly aware of that. I don’t think anybody 
could be better acquainted with his own, —if it was not too strong 
an expression, I should say with the thickness of his own head than 
myself.” Mr. Toots conceives ¢o strong a passion for Miss Florence 
Dombey, that he is—to use his own words— “perfectly sore with 
loving her.” His attentions, however, are not encouraged, and he be- 
comes very down-hearted. “I xNow I’m wasting away,” he says to 
Captain Cuttle, “Burgess and Co. have altered my measure, I’m in 
that state of thinness. If you could see my legs when I take my boots 
off, you'd form some idea what unréquited affection is.” He recovers 
his health and spirits, however, after no long time, and consoles hime 
self for the loss of Miss Dombey by marrying her maid, Miss Susan 
Nipper. The result of this union is a large family of children. After 
the birth of the third, Mr, Toots betakes himself to the “ Wooden 
Midshipman” to give information of the happy event to hie friend 
Captain Cattle, whom he always misnames Captain Gills. 

“Tknow that you ' be glad to hear, and so T came down myself, Were pow 


{tively getting on, you know. There '* Florence and Susan, and now here’ 
another little stranger.’ 





quires the eaptatn. 
* Yes, Captain Gills ‘Toots; “and I'm glad of it: the oftener we ena 
{ most extraordinary woman, my opinion ls, the better." 

“Stand by!" ays tho eaptain, turning to the old cuse-botile with ao throat; 
for it Is orening, and the Midshipman's usual moderato provision of pipes and 
ison the board. “Here "s to her; and tay she have ever so many more!” 
“Thank "ee, Captain Gills!” says the delightod Mr. Toots, “I echo the eenth 
ment.” 


(Ch. xi, xii, xiv, xvill, xxii, xxviii, xxxi, xxii, xxxix, xli, xlv 
xlviis, 1, Ivi, Ivii, Ix, Lxil.) 

















Dombey and Son. 279, 


Toots, Mrs. See Nirren, Susan. 

Towlinson, Thomas. Mr. Dombey’s footman. (Ch. v, xviii, xx, 
xxviii, xxi, xxxv, xliv, li, lix.) 

Tox, Miss Lucretia, A friend of Mrs. Chick’s, greatly admired 
by Major Bagstock. 

‘The caty , - . was a long. lean figure, wearing such a faded alr,that she 
‘seemed not to have been made in what linen-drapers call “ fust colors” orige 
ually, and to have, by little and little, washed out. But for this, she might have 
been described as the very pink of generat propitiation and politeness, From 
slong habit of listening admiringly to every thing that was said in her presence, 
and looking at the speakers as if she were mentally engaged in taking off im 
pressions of their tmages upon her soul, never to part with the #ame but with 
Iife, her head had quite settled on one side, Her hands had contracted « 
spasmodic habit of raising themselves of thelr own accord as in involuntary 
admiration. Her eyes wore lable to a similar affection, She had the noftest 
voice that ever was heard; and her nose, stupendously aquiline, had o tittle 
Amob fn the very centre oF keystone of the bridge, whenee it tended downwards 
towards her face, as in an invincible determination never to turn up at any 
‘thing. 

After the death of the first Mrs, Dombey, Miss Tox has a modest 
ambition to succeed her, but, failing of doing so, her regard for 
Mr. Dombey becomes severely platonic, (Ch. i, ii, v-vili, x, xviii, 
%x, xxix, xxxi, xxxvi, xxviii, li, lix, Lxli.) 

Tozer. A room-mate of Paul Dombey's at Dr. Blimber’s; a solemn 

entleman whose shirt-collar curls up the lobes of his ears, 

xiv, xli, Ix.) 

Wickam, Mrs, A waiter’s wife (which would scem equivalent to 
being any other man's widow), and little Paul Dombey’s nurse. 
(Ch. viti, xi, xii, xvii, Ivili.) 

‘Mrs. Wickam was @ meek woman, of a fair complexion, with her eyebrows 
slways elevated, and hor head always drooping; who was always ready to pity 
herself, or to be pitied. or to pity anybody else; and who had a surprixing 
natural gift of viewing all subjects in an utterly forlorn and pitiable ght, and 
bringing dreadful precedents to bear upou them, and deriving the greatest eon- 
solution from the exercise of that talent. 


Withers, Page to Mrs. Skewtor tail, wan, and thin. (Ch. xxi, 
xxvi, xxvii, xxx, xxxvii, x1.) 





— 





280 The Dickens Mictlonary. 


PRINCIPAL INCIDENTS. —- 


‘Cuarran I. Mr. Dombey exprosses his gratification at the birth of a son, and recetros 
‘tho congratulations of his slstor, Mrs, Chick; Nis sister's friend, Miss Tox, presents her 
offering: Mrs. Dombey, not being ablo to make the effort urged by Mrs. Chick, gradnatty, 
faila, and dies clinging to her daughter, ~ IT, Mrs. Chick exerts herself to provide a wet- 
‘oaree for little Raul; Miss Tox also Interests horssif in the matter, and Introdaces the 
‘Toodle family; Mrm Tool, as Itichards, is engaged. —IEL, Florence hears from Hichards 
the story of hor mother’s death; Susin Nippor makes her frst appesrancos Tichants, by 
a littio management, brings the children constantly together.— IV. Solomon Gtlis, on the 
‘ccoasion of his nophow's, Waltor Gay, entering the employ of Dorabey and Bon, produces 
‘8 bottle of choice Madeira; Captain Cattle Jains the party, and Usey drink to Dombey and 
Son, nnd Daughter.—¥. Mrm Chik and Miss Tox enjoy a eooial evening In tho nursery, 
to tho dimmust of Mias Nipper; little Paul is christened, Mise Tox being one of the 
sore; chilling effect of thochristening oollations Mr. Dombey shows his regard for. 

‘by appotnting Hiller a" Charitable Grinder.”*— VI. Richards and Susan take the children 
to Stager's Gardens, the home of the Toodles: returning homo, Richards discovers Biler bn 
‘trouble, and goes to hls rescue; an alarm of “ Mad Tull" ts raised, and tho party gets 
‘separated; Florence ls pleked up by Good Mra. Brown, who robs her of her clothing, 
sends her home in ragst sho Is found tn the street by Walter Gay, who takes her t0 Hl 
‘uncle's, anit goes to Mr. Domboy" with tha news of hor axfoty, which her father receives 
quite indifferently ; Richards is discharged. — VII. Major Joo Bagstock fads himesif sa- 
persedted In the notice of Miss Tox by # baby. — VEIL. Little Paul, grown to the ugo of 
‘vo years, nurprines hia futher by hisqueations about money; Paul not being etrong and 
‘well, the dostor recommends searnir, and he and Florence aro sent to Mes. Pipella'sat 
Brighton) Pant te tmpolite to Mra. Pipching Mra Wickam expresses some superstitions 
fears tn rogard to him; Paul asks Florence what the waves are always saying — 1X. 
‘Walter notioos « chango in Uncle Sol, and tries to cheer him up: returning from the sffos 
one day, ho ls astonished to find that Mr. Brogley, a broker, lias taken ponscmion of tha! 
stook for debt, Waiter looks up Captain Cuttlo, whom he has some trouble in coming at 
‘onaccount of the pervorseness of his landlady, Mra. MacStinger; the captain takes tho 
matter into consideration, and advises applying to Mr. Domboy for ® Joan, #04 ho and 
‘Walter set off to Brighton for that purpove.— X, Major Bagstook traces the onuso of Mise: 
Tox's reserve to her devotion to the Dambeys, and goes to Hrighton, whero he throws 
himself In Mr, Dombey"s way, and makes his sequuntance; Walter, supported by Captain 
‘Cute, snakes his application to Mr. Dombey: the captain presents his valuablos ne segue 
rity: Mr, Dombey, through Paul, lends the required amount to Mr. Gill, — XI. Mr. Dorm 
bey decides to remove Paul from Mtrx Pipchin's to Doctor Ibtimbor's¢ Doctor Iimber's 
‘establishment, and Its methods of teaching; Mr. Dombey, accomnpaniat by Florence and 
Mrs. Pipchin, takes Paul to Doctor Iitimber's, wherd he Is Introdced to-the family of that 
Jearned gentleman, and where ho ls left to be subjected to the forcing process for which 
that extablishimont ts celobrated.— XEL, Mies Wilmber takes Paul in handy Mx. ‘Toots 
shows hix good-will; Miss Blmber starts Paat Jn his course of study; Florenge obtains 
tho books which contain Paul's lessons, and assista him tn thelr preparation; Mfr. Toots 
continues to interest himself ia Paul.— XIU. ‘The deftrance paid to Mr. Dombey hy thou 
fH ond around his oftce; Mr, Carker the manager informs Mr. Dombey of a vacancy tt 
‘Gude agency at Barbadoes and he decides to sond Walter Gay to All ity Walter heary 
a conversation betwoen the brothers James and John Carker, in which the position 
of the Latter Is defined; Mr, Joha Carkor tolls Walter the story of his temptation ant 
fd. — XIV. Mies Ailmber prepares an analyaie of Yaul'« character; Maul grows mom 
an 1 more old-fashioned ; he recelves his tnvitation to Doctor and Mrm Btimber's early 
party; "" be basa fainting-At in Mr, Fowler's room, and by the doctor's advice i rolleved 














from Jus studies; Pant cotlects all his small peascslous fur taking home: at the Blimbers'e 
party, Paul receives the kindest attentions from all present, and Fioronce becomes a unk 
‘versal fiyorite; they all show tholr fondness for Puul at his departure, and he Gnally 








reuches home. —XV. Walter makes up hls mind ¢o Inform his uncle of the Tarbadoes 
project, and goes to Captain Cuitlo to get him to break the news to Sol Gills; the eaptaliny 





a 








Dombep and Bon. 281 


im consideration of tho matter, “bites hiv malls a bit" and finally decides to wee Mr. 
Dombey, and talk it over with him: Waltor, walking about to give the captain sine to 
‘break the news to Sol Gills, t overtaken Uy Susan Nigper in a coach, In search of Stages 
‘Gandons and Mrs. Toodlo: he assists her to tind Richards, and returns with them t Mr. 
‘Dombey's house, where he ts called in.— XVI. Little Pani, grown more and more fueble, 
bogs to see his old nurse and Walter. and dies with his arms around Florence's neck. = 
XVI. Not socing Mr. Dombey at homo, Captain Cattle goes to the ofice of Dombey and 
and calls on Mr, Carker the manager; the captain explains his understanding of tho 
tive fo Carker, and his mapirations iq connection with Walter and Mloronce, which Str, 
‘Carer takes pains to strengthen, and the eaptaln Is fally satiefled that he" has done @ 
little business for the youngetere" —XVILE. Faneral of little Paul, and Mr. Dombey's 
tndifferenes to Florence; Mra. Chick and Mise Tox attempt to console Plorence: Blt 
Barnet and Lady Skottlex invite Florence to visit thom, but «ho prefors to remainat home 
Mr. Dombey grows more and more cold towards his daughter: Mr. Toots calls upoa lor 
‘ence, and brine Diogenes, the dog of which Panl was #o fond at Doctor Biimber's: Sasan 
‘taforms Florence that her father fs to leave home on the morrow. In company with Major 
‘Biagstock ; Florence goes to her father's room, and trios to excite his affection wad sympa 
‘thy, Dut finds hitn sell cold und reserved. — XIX. Walter prepares to go away, and 18 
Hiving his uncles message for Florence, when she and Susan entor the shop Florenos 
‘and Walter take leave of each other, and Florence prevents tim with a Keepsike; Joba 
‘Career comes to take leavo of Walter Walter goos aboard“ The Son and Hetr."" «nil sho 
starts upon her voyage —XX Mr. Dombey breakiaste with Major Bagstock: the Major 
‘speculates on the matrimonial ambition of Miss Tox, Mr. Toodle expresses tis «pmpathy 
‘at the death of little Paa!, but Mr. Dombey does not respond: reflections of Mz. Dombey 
‘om the road the maajor railles him on his thoughtfulness: they arrive at Leamington, — 
XXE Mr: Dombey and Major Bagstock encountor Mrv. Skewton, and her daughter Mrx, 
Granger; Mra. Seewton expresses hor fondnoss for" Nature" and Hearty Malo Mar 
stock informs Mr. Dombey wba these new friends aro; Mr. Domber and the major call 
‘upon the ladies, and Mrs. Granver shows her accomplishments, = XXIL; Mr, Carker tho 
manager shows his alfection for Mr. Carker the Janlor, and for thetr alster: Mr. Perch 
Informe Mr, Carkor that Hob tho Grinder Is seeking employment: Mr. Carker has him 
broaght ins Sol Gills comes to pay the instalment dae on his debt. and to Inquire for news 
of “Tho Son and Meir,” wnich has not deen beard from since sho salted; Carker proposes 
to put Rob into hisemploy; Carker coex home with Mod, and fally eogngos to take change 
‘of that young hopeful, whom he places asa spy upon Sol Gillis; Carkor ls witness to tho 
Giscomfture of Mr. Toots, consequent upon that young gentleman’ advances to Suman 
‘Mpper. —XXIT. The lonoly life of Florence in the deserted houve; Florence. anxious at 
‘he absence of news from Walter, goes with Sazan to soo Sol Gills, and, not finding him at 
‘Yome, they go to Captain Cattle's; meeting of Susan Nipper and Mra SMacktinger: Cape 
ain Cattle, at loss what to aay about Walter's ship, consulta the oruoular Bansby, who 
‘ghres an opinion, the * bearings “* of which “Lays In the spplication on It.""—~ XXIV. Plor- 
nice vinte thio family of Sir Tarot Sketvles at Pulham; various Incidents remind her of 
‘her estrangement frota her futher; they encounter Carker on the stroet, who inform Flor 
sage there is no new? of tho ship.—XXV. Sudden disappearance of Sol Gills: Captain 
utile, finding no ten. es of hit, runs away from Mre, MaoStinger, an takex posseation of 
sbe shops KXVL Carker arrives at Lonminyton; the nixjor and Mfrs. Skewton encourage 
she attentions of Mr. Dombey to Faith; Mra Skewton accepts for herself and Edith Br. 
‘Donidey's invitation to breakfast, and to a ride to Warwick Castle. — XXWIT. Carker mocte 
*Alth In the grove, and relieves her from tho annoyance of Good Mrs Browns Carker 
watches Edith closely daring the breakfast and tho trip to Warwick; Dombey makes am 
‘Sopointment with Mrs. Granger" fora purpose," and sho recapivalates to hor movher the 
SBunspement they have used in bringing him to adeclaration, —XXVITL, Florenca proposes 
soretue home; how Mr. Toot prootived boating roturning homo, Florence and Susan 
ial the house undercolny extensive alterations; Florence ‘nects Faith and Mra. Skewton 
for tho fing sime,and hears of tho sy proaenmg marriage of her father.—XXIX. Mew Chick 
alls upon Sie Tox to 'a%ern her of Me. Dombey"s contemplated marriagy; Misa Tox ix 
‘overcome by the news, snd Mrs. Chick has her ¢)s.opened to tho ambitious hopes of hee 
trlend, wh 7a whe cyrsequently casts off. —XX.X, latith shows @ waria friendship for Flor 
ae 




















—— 


82 Tbe Dickens Wiettonary. 


‘nce; she unges her to roinsin at home alone after her father's murtiages Mee Skewton, 

tows her interest In Florence: Edith refusos to allow Florence to remata with Mix 
Rowton during her own absence. —XXX1. The wedding of Mr Domber and Edith 
Grangor; the wedding-breakfast, whore Cousin Feealx makes speech. and Mr, Carker 
niles apon theconipany.—XXXIL Captain Cattle, keoping close quartersat the Wooden 
‘MidabIp.oan, |s called upon by Mr, Toots and the Game Chicken: Mr, Toots is ansious te 
have Captaly Cattle cultivate tis acquaintance; ho reads Crom a newspaper an account 
‘of tho loss of "Tho Son and Heir to Captain Cattle; Captain Cattle calls again on Mr. 
Carker, who recelves him with loss politeness than bofure.—XXXI1T. Mr. James Carkor'y 
Lome nvar Norwood, sith the plctare resembling BAlth ou the wall; Mr. John Cacker's 
‘house on thio other side of Landon Jobim Carker parte with his alstor fur tho day sho te 
‘visited by a stranger gentleman, who ts thoroaghly acquainted with their history, and who, 
‘moures hier promise to call on him If they evor need assistance: Harriet Carkor betriends 
Alico Brown, a retarned convict. — XXXIV. Good Mra. Brown welcomes home her daugh- 
‘tort Mra. Drown Informs Alioe what she knows of Carker: learning that it was his sister 
‘who befrionded her, sho returns to her house, and flings back her gift with curtey,—XXX¥. 
‘Mr. and Mrs. Dombey are welcomed home afer their bridal tours Mr, Dombey, pretending 
toaleep, watchos Florence and Edith, and his heart hardens towards hie daughter to find. 
‘that she hus won bis wifw's loves Florence relates to Eiith the story of Walter: Edith 
‘warns Florence not to expect to gain through her hor father's affection. — XXXVI. Mr. 
and Mrs Dombey give an entertalament which ts not sooial: Cousin Feenlx relates « 
story: Mr. Carker Is tho only man at ease, and Mra Chick fools hersolf alighted: Mr. 
Dowbey In the presence of Carker makes objections to his wife's conduct, —XXXVIL. 
‘Garker calls upon Mrs. Dombey, and insists upon an interview; Carkor asames the exe 
Istenee of devoted attachment between Mra. Dombey and ber husband, and endeavors to 
estaXieh an influence oror hor through her foar of injuring Florence: Mrs, Skewton is 
struck with paralyals.—XXXVIU. Misa Tax, abandoned by Mrs. Chick, seeks Richards 
for tofurmation of the Domboys, and is escorted home by Rob the Grader. —~XXXIX. 
‘Captain Catto bestows on Mr. Toots the pleasuro of fix acquaintance, on condition that 
Florence must never be named or referred to; Rab the Grinder leaves Captain Cuttlo's 
verricoy Captain Cattle, with tho approval of his friend Bunsby, opens Sol Gills's packet 
tn the prosence of that worthy; Mra MacStinger and her fumily suddenly appear on the 
sconoy mach to Captain Cuttle’s amazement, Bunsby pacifies ber, and, escorting her 
ome, returns with the captain's box, which he had Jett at Kirlg Place on hls excape.— XI 
‘Mr. Dombey expresses to Eitith his displeasure at hor conduct, 

towards him, and requests, for the sake ofothers, mutual forbearan 
‘on his own will; the family, exoept Mr. Dombey, accompany Mes, 
Are Skewton and her daughter encountor<iond Mr. Brown and Alice = XLT Mr, Toots, 
‘secompanied by Florence, calls at Doctor Biimber's; on thelr return Mr. Toots la on the 
point of making # declaration of hie love, which Florence checks: dosth of Mrs. Skowton. 
—XLIL. Rob the Grinder appears in the service of Mr. Carker; Mr. Dombey wnd Mr, Cark- 
ein counoil: Mr. Dombey instracts Carker to act as bis agent bn expressing to nue wife 
‘his demande In regand to hor conduct; Mfr. Dombey la thrown from his horse and acverely 
hurt, and Carker carries the news of the accitent to Edith.—XLIM. Sasan Nipper ex= 
reese! hor opinion of Mr, Carker, wad of Mra. P:pchin, who lias bocome housskeepert 
Florence goes to her father's com, and kisses hitn in his sleep: Florence finds Eaith ti 
stave of great awitation after her interviow with Carkor. —XLIV. Susan Nipper, watobing 
.aer opportunity, enters Mr. Dombey's room wher he Is aloue, and relieves horaitnd; Mr 
‘ipohin gives hor warning, aiid sho Ioaves wndor the excort of Mr, Toots! she destroys Nis 
‘aopes of ever belag loved by Florence. — XLV. Carker requesta an interview alone with, 
ait: ho states the position Mr, Domber would have bim fll towards her. and declares 
himulf devoted to her service; ahe denies having any affection for her husband; Carker 
warns her, for Florence's sake, to withdraw her affection from her.—XLVE. Mr. Carket 
4 watched by Good Mrs. Hrown and her daughter, who afterwards question BoD the 
Grinder tn reeard to his master: Mr. James Carkor again taunts his brother with bie dis 
uve, ad moors at bis expressions of good-will towards Mr, Dombey,—XLVIC. Katt 
ide Plorenoe, and informe her that they must become eatranyed; Mr. Dombey persists 
tn 0g “eoting Edith in the presence of Carker and Florence; Edith answers him, and Aske 
























Pombep and Son. 283 


{Bt a separation on ils own torms; Mr Dombey rejects the proposition; Carker attempts 
two conciiinte: Eallth shrinks from Ficrence on the stairs: ight of Kalith end Carkers 
Fioronea Is atraek down by an angry blow from her fither.—XILLVILL Sho files to the 
‘house of Sol Gills, where she le received by Captain Cuttle, from whom sho learns of the 
imag pearance of Walter's uncle; the captain provides for the comfort of Florence: tr. 
‘Toots calls, and Informs Captain Cuttle that a person whom he met at the door that morn 
ng is waiting to.nee him at Mr, Heogley"st tho captaln goos to Mroglay's, snd returns ta a 
state of great excitement. —XLIX. Captain Cuttle takes tonder caro of Florence, and 
hicers hier up by rominding her that“ Wal'r °* drownded: " Florence goes shopping with, 
he ca stain; the eaptutn relates to Plorence the story of the ablp Jont at sea, from which 
fea2 Ind was saved: the shadow of a man appears upon the wall, and ¢he welcames Walter 
home, while Captain Cattle" makes orer a Utelo property Jintiy.""—f. Florence rolates 
tho xsson of her fight from home: Walter reasons that his uncle 1s still alive, and will 
return; they dincuss the position of Florence, and decide to fad out Susan ax the Lex 
‘attendant for her; Mr, Toots, distracted with the nows of Florence's disappearance, 1s fe 
Moved to find sho tx safe, though in his rival's charge, and promises to devote himscif and 
‘the Chicken to the recovery of Suxan; Florence, pained at Walter's svolding her, socks 
‘su explanations their interview results in a mutual profession of love, to the great delight 
of Captain Cuttle.—L1. Sr. Dombey warns his slater to tre alfont on the aubject of Flor 
ences Major Bagstock claims the name of Dombey's friead when the time comes for 
‘Moctlng Carker; how the family dlsaxtor affects Mr. Dombey's clarks. — EIT, Mr. Dombey 
b0es tothe abode of Good Mra, Brown to hear aows of Carker; from a place of eonceal- 
ment ho hears Mrs, Brown and her danghter draw from Rob the Grinder. by questions and 
threats, tho secrota of his mater and Mra. Dombey's fight, and thelr place of destination 
+ LIKE, John Carker is dismissed Harrict relates to her brother tho appearance of thele 
unknown friend, who proves to be Mr. Morfin of Dombey and Son's house: he relates 
how he came by « knowletgo of their affairs, and promises to assist thomy Mr. Morfin 
{informs Harriet Carker of the condition of hee brother's pecuniary connection with Dom 
bay und Son} Alice Ikrown rolents at her aharo in the betrayal of Carker. and, after relating 
‘to Harriet the cause she has 10 curse him, bors her to warn him that Dombey ts on hie 
track, LIV, Eaith appears alone wt the apartment in Dijony Carkar Joins hers Edith 
spurns Carker's advances, threatens him with violence if he approaches her, and shows 
i that her ight with him was in order to avenge the inaults she had recelved from hin; 
‘tho Informs him of her hasbans’s presence in the town, and escapes from the apartment 
Just ns Mr. Dombey arrives at the doors Carker escapes through an obsoure passage, — LY. 
‘Garkor hastens back to England, terriflod by the focting that Mr. Dombey 4s pursuing ims 
‘ho stops to rest at & remote country station, and, as ho Is about to proceed, he encounters 
3x. Demnbey, to avold whom he gots apon the track, and ts cut to pieces by the engine. — 
LVL Me. Toots returns to the Midshipman with Sasan Nipper, and becomes roconesiad to 
the leas of Florence; Bre Richards becomes housckeoper at the Midshipman; Mr. Toote'e 
unhappiness at hearing the barns read ta church: return of Sol Gills: bls tony absence 
‘td hile al! ioe are explained: the Gamo Chicken expresses his disgust, and he and Mz, 
Toots part company. — LVI. Walter and Plorenco visit th tomb of little Paul; marriage 
<€ Walter and Florence, and their departure on a voyage to China.LVIIL. allure of the 
house of Dombey and Son; Marrtet Carker begs Mr. Morfin to give Mr. Dombey the 
Antereat of the bulk of the forcane Left by hee brother James: Harriet visits Alice Brown, 
Whom sho has rescued from her sinful tif, and who now lies vory sick, nursed. by Mew 
Wickam; Mes Brown informs Harriet of the relationship betwoon her child and Mex 
ounibey i death of Alice. —LIX. Mr. Domber's servants are dismtesod, and the furnitare 
Al at auction, while Me. Dombey keeps himself unseen tn his own apartments: Mew 
Vipelitn resigns her charge of the house, ana tx aucoceded by Richarde|. Miss Tox conthaes 
Sshow her sympathy; Br. Dombey wanders through the house hy night, and Learns to 
tong for Florence; she roturns, aad secks her fithee, and takes him home with her 
Miss Tox takex Nob the Grinder into her service.—LX. Mr. Footer, B.A. raartves Cor 
ella limber, Mr. Toots and bis wite, ‘ormerly Mist Susan Nipper, belng present at the 
seromony: Mrs. MacStinger leads Bunsby to tho altar: Samin retarns to Florence, EXT 
‘Douatn Foentx takes Florence to his house to meet Kaith; thelastbottle of the old Madelre 
“edrruk to Walter and his wif —UXIL. Final disposition of all the characters 




































































oo | 





The Haunted Man, 
AND THE GHOST’S BARGAIN, 


A FANCY FOR CHRISTMAS-TIME. 


PUmLAsiTED fn 1648, and Knstrated with a frontieploce wna title-page engraved 
n wood from drawings by John Tennlel, and with woodcuts in the text from 
sketches by Stanfield, Leech, and Stone. 

‘The story ts founded upon a legend attached to an old portralt: “Lord, keep 
may memory green!” But, instead of taking the word “memory " in ite intended 
and obvious sense of continued existence in the remembrance of others, Mr, 
Dickens very curiously misinterprets It to mean that power or eapsclty of the 
mind which enables it to treasure up for future use the knowledge it acquires. 


OHARAOTERS INTRODUCED. 


Denham, Edmund. A student, whose true name is Lonarorp. 
‘He comes under the evil influence of Mr. Redlaw, and loses all 
sense of the kindness that has been shown him during « dangerous 
illness, But, when a change falls upon Redlaw, his heart feels the 
effect also, and glows with affection and gratitude to his benefac 
tress: (Ch. ii, iii.) 

fhongford, Edmund. See Dexuam, Epmunp, 

Redlaw, Mr. A learned chemist, and a lecturer at an ancient 
institution in a great city, He is a melancholy but kind-hearted 
man, whose life has been darkened by many sorrows. As he site 

‘ight over the things that might have been, but never 
iam Swidger, the keeper of the Lodge, with his wife 

Milly, and his father Philip, enter the room to serve his tea, and te 

decorate the apartment with holly in honor of Christmas. 









She Mauntey Man. 285 


© huother Christmas comes; another year gone!” murmured the chemist wiih 
‘8 gloomy igh. * More figures tn the lengthening sum of recollection that wo 
‘work and work at, to our torment, til! Death idly jumbles all together, and rab 
‘sii out. So, Philip!" breaking off, and raising his voles as he addressed the old 

‘man standing apart, with his gilstening burden in his arms, from which the quiet 
‘Mrs, William took smal! branches. which she noiselesaly trimmed with her scis- 
sore. und decorated the room with, while her aged father-in-law looked on much 
Interested in the ceremony. 

“My duty to you, sir.” returned the old man. “Should haye «poken before, 
sir, but know your ways, Mr. Redlaw,—proud to eay.—and walt till spoke to. 
iri and happy New-Year! and many of "em! Have had « 
myself,—ba, hu !—snd may take the liberty of wishing "ei. 














‘'m elghty-veven!” 

“Have you had #o many that were merry and happy?" asked the other. 

* Ay, sir} ever co many,” returned the old man. 

“Ts his memory impaired with age? It is to be expected now," aald Mr. Red- 
Jaw, turning to the son, and speaking lower. 

“Not « morvel of it, sir," repliod Mr. William. That’ exactly what I say 
myself, sir. There never was auch a memory as my father’s. Ho's the most 
tronderful man in the world. He don’t know what forgetting means. Its the 
‘very observation I’m always making to Mrs. William, sir, if you "l beliove me!” 


‘The old man reminds Mr, Redlaw of a picture of one of the 
founders of the institution, which hangs in what waa once the great 
ining-hall, —a sedate gentleman, with a scroll below him, bearing 
this inscription, “Lord, keep my memory green!" And then the 
younger Mr. Swidger speaks of his wife's visits to the sick and suffer- 
ing, and tells how she has just returned from nursing a student who 
attends Mr. Redlaw’s lectures, and who has been seized with a fever. 


“Not content with this, sir, Mrs. William goes and finds, this very night, 
‘when she was coming homo (why it” not above a couple of hours ago), # crearare, 
more like w young wild beast than young child, shiveriig upon doorstep. 
‘What does Mrs, William do but brings it home to dey it, and foed St, and keep ft 
All our old bounty of food and flannel is given away on Christmas morning! fit 
wver felt a fire before, {ts ns much as It ever did; for it’s slitting In the old Lodge 
chimmey, staring at ours as if {ts ravenous eyes would never abut again. It’ 
Witting there, at least,” eald Mr. William, correcting himself on reflection, “ unless 
Wt" bolted.” 

* Heaven keep her happy!” said the chemist aloud, “ and you too, Phitip! and 
cou, William! 1 must consider what to do in this. I may desire to aoe this 
student: 1"Ii not detain you longer now. Good-night!” . 

“F thankeo, sir, thankee!” said the old man, “for Mouse, and for my som 

‘William, and for myssif, Where's my ron William? William, you tuke the 
antern, and goon first through them long dark passages, as you did tast year 
wd the year afore. Ha,ha! J remember, though I’m eighty-seven! ‘Lord, 
Keep my memory green!? It’s m very good prayer, Mr, Medlaw,—that of the 
earned gentleman in the peaked beard, with a ruff round his neck; hangs up, 
hocond on the right abore the panelling In what used to be, afore our ten poor 
gentlemen commuted, our great dinner ball, ‘Lord, keep my memory green!” 
W's very q00! and pious, alr. Amex, amen!” ' 











. ——— 





286 Ede Oi-kens Wictionarp. 


After the departure of these humble friends, Redlaw falls back 
into lis train of sorrowful musings; and, as he sits Lefore the fire, 
‘an awful spectral likeness of himself appears to him. It echoes his 
mournful thoughts, brings each wrong and sorrow that he has suffered 
vividly before him, and finally offers to cancel the remembrance of 
thom, destroying no knowledge, no result of study, nothing but the 
intertwisted chain of feelings and associations, each in its turn de 
pendent on and nourished by the banished recollections. 


“ Decide,” It said, “before the opportunity # lost!” 

“A moment! I call Heaven to witness,” eaid the agitated man, “thet I hare 
Rever boen & hater of my kind,—never morose, indifferent, or hard to sny 
around me. ff, living here alone, I have made too much of all that was 
might have been, and too ttle of what 4s, the evil, I beliere, has fallen om me, 
and not ou others. But, {f there were polton in my body, should I not, possessed 
of untidotes, and knowledge how to use thom, use them? If there be poison in 
tmy mind. and through thia fearful shadow I can cast {tout, aall I not cast lt out?” 

ts it done?” 

A moment longer!” he answered hurriedly. “I would forget it (f T could? 
Have / thought that alone? or has it been the thought of thousands upon thon 
‘sands, generation after generation? All human memory ts fraught with sorrow 
and trouble. My memory {* ns the memory of other men; but other men have 
‘not this choles, Yes: I close the bargain. Yes: I Witt forget my sorrow, 
“wrong, and trouble!” 
Bay.” said the spectre, “ts ft done?” 
tat? 
it 18. And take this with you, man whom here renounce, The gift that 1 
have given, you shall give again, go where you will. Without recovering yourself 
the power that you have yielded up, you aball henceforth destroy ita like in all 
whom you approach, Your wisdom has discovered that the memory of sorrow, 
wrong, and trouble, Is the lot of all mankind, and that mankind would be the 
happler ia its other memories without it. Go! Be tte benefactor! Freed from 
uch remembrance from this hour, carry involuntarily the blessing of auch free 
dom with you. Its di(fusion is toseparable and tualienable frowm you.” 


The phantom leaves him bewildered, and with no memory of 
past wrongs or troubles. He does not know in what way he pos 
sesses the power to communicate this forgetfulness to others; but, 
with a vague feeling of having an antidote for the worst of human 
13s, he goes forth to administer it. ‘Those whom he secks, and 
those whom he casually encounters, alike experience the infection 
of his presence. Charged with poisor. for his own mind, he poisons 
the minds of others, Where he felt interest, compassion, sympa- 
thy, his heart turns to stone. Selfishness and ingratitude every 
where spring up in his blighting footsteps. There is but one persom 
who is proof against his baneful influence, and that is the ragged 
thild whom Mrs. Swidger picked up in the streets, Hardship and 




















de Maunted Man. 2387 


“prucity have so blunted the senses of this wretched creature, that it 
grows neither worse nor better from contact with the haunted man, 
It is, indeed, already a counterpart of him, with no memory of the 
ast to soften or stimulate it. Shocked by the evil he has wrought, 
Redlaw awakes to a consciousness of the misery of his condition, 
Maving long taught that in the material world nothing ean be spared, 
that no step or atom in the wondrous structure could be lost without 
a blank being made in the great universe, he is now brought to 
te that it is the same with good and evil, happiness and sorrow 
m the memories of men. He invokes the spirit of his darker hourt 
to come back and take its gift away, or, at least, to deprive him 
of the dreadful power of giving it to others. His prayer is heard. 
‘The phantom re-appears, accompanied by the shadow of Milly, the 
wife of William Swidger, from whom Redlaw has resolutely kept 
himself aloof, fearing to influence the steady quality of goodness that 
he knows to be in her, fearing that he may be “the marderer of 
what is tenderest and best within her bosom.” He learns that she, 
unconsciously, has the power of setting right what he has done; and 
he seeks her out. Wherever she goes, peace and happiness attend 
her, The peevish, the morose, the discontented, the ungrateful, and 
the selfish are suddenly changed, and become their former and 
better selves. Even Redlaw is restored to what he was; and 
clearer light shines into his mind, when Milly tells him, that, to her, 
it scems a good thing for ux to remember wrong, that we may for- 
give it. 

Some people have aid since, that be only thought what has been herein set 
down; others, that he read ft In the fire, one winter-night, about the twilight- 
time; others, that the ghost was but the representation of hix gloomy thoughts, 
iid Milly the embodiment of his better wisdom, Z say nothing. 

—Except this. ‘That as they were assembled in the old hall, by no other light 
tan tnt of a great fire (having dined early), the shadows once more stole out of 
thele hidingyplaces, and danced about the room, showing the children marvellous 
shapes and faces ou the walls, and gradually changing what was real and farailiar 
there to what was wild and magical; bat that there was one thing in the ball, to 
which the eyes of Redlaw, and of Milly and her husband, and of the old mag, and 
of the stadent and his bride that was to be, were often turned; which the *indows 
did not obscure or change. Docpened in Its gravity by the frelight, and gazing 
Trow the darkness of the panelled wall like life, the sedate fice in the portrait, 
‘with the beard and ruff, looked down at them from under its verdant wreath of 
‘soir, as they looked up at it; and clear and plain below, as if'a voloe had uttered 
‘hem, were the words, — 


“Bord, keep mp PAemorp Geen!” 














288 Che Dickens DMictlonary. 

Swidger, George. Eldest son of old Philip Swidger; a dying 
man, repentant, of all the wrong he has done and the sorrow he has 
caused during a career of forty or fifty years, but suddenly changed, 
by seeing Rediaw at his bedside, into a bold and callous raffian, 
who dies with an oath on his lips. (Ch. ii.) 

Swidger, Milly. Wife of William Swidger; an embodiment of 
goodness, gentle consideration, love, and domesticity. (Ch. i-ili.) 
See Repiaw, Mn. 

Swidger, Philip. A raed custodian of the institution 
in which Mr. Redlaw is a lecturer. He is a happy and venerable 
old man of eighty-seven years of age, who has a most remarkable 
memory. When, however, at the bedside of his dying son, he mects 
Redlaw (sho has just closed the bargain with the ghost, in couse- 
quence of which he causes forgetfulness in others wherever he goes), 
he all at once grows weak-minded and petulant; but, when he once 
more comes within the influence of his good daughter Milly, he 
recovers all his recollections of the past, and is quite himself again. 
(Ch. i-iii.) See Repiaw. 

Swidger, William. His youngest son; servant to Redlaw, and 
husband to Milly; a fresh-colored, busy, good-hearted man, who, 
like his father and others, is temporarily transformed into a very 
different sort of person by coming in contact with his master after 
“the ghost’s bargain” is concluded. (Ch. i-iii.) See Repuaw. 

Tetterby, Mr. Adolphus. A newsman, with almost any number 
of small children, —usually an unselfish, good-natured, yielding little 
race, but changed for a time, as well as himself, into the exact oppo- 
site by Mr, Redlaw. (Ch. ii, iti.) 

Tetterby, Mrs. Sophia. His wife, called by himself his “little 
woman.” “Considered as an individual, she was rather remarkable 
for being robust and portly ; but, considered with re to her 
husband, her dimensions became magnificent.” (Ch. i 

Tetterby, 'Dolphus, Their eldest son, aged ten: h 
paper boy at a railway station. (Ch. it, iii.) 

His juvenility might have beon at some lox for a harmless outlet tn this 
‘early application to tram, but for a fortunate discovery he made of a means of 
entertaining himself, and of dividing the long day iuto stages of interest, withe 
‘out neglecting business. This Ingenious invention, remarkable, like many great 
Aiscoreries, fur its simplicity, consisted in varying the firet vowel inthe word 
paper," and substituting in Ita stead, at different periods of the day, all the 
other vowels in grammatical order, Thus, before daylight in the wintertime 
he went to and fro, in his little ollskin cap and eape and his big comforter, pler 
ing the honvy air with his ery of “Morning paper!” which, about an hour 









Ebe Paunter fan. 289 


‘before noon, changed to“ Morning pep-per!” which, at about two, changed to 
“Morn-ing pip-per!”” which, In a conple of hours. changed to “ Morning pop- 
por!” and ao declined with the xan into “ Rreniagpeirpey = ioihe gers, 
and comfort of this young gentleman's spirits. 

Tetterby, Johnny. Their second son; a patient, omieariietage 
child, whose special duty it is to take care of the baby. (Ch. ii, 
iil) 

Tetterby, Sally. A lange, heavy infant, always cutting teeth 
¢ :) 





It was a very Moloch of a baby, on whose Insatlate altar the whole existence 
of this particular young brother [Johnay) was offered up a daily sacrifice, Ite 
personality may be said to have consisted In its never being quiet in any one 
place for five consecutive ralautes, and never going to sleep when required. . . « 
It roved from door-atep to door-step in the arms of little Johnny Fettorby, and 
Jagged heavily at the rear of troops of juveniles who followed the tumblers or 
the monkey, and came up, all un one side, a little too late for every thing that 
was attractive, from Monday morning until Saturday night. Wherever child- 
hood congregated to play, there was little Moloch making Johnny fag and toll. 
Wherever Johnny desired to stay, little Moloch became fractious, und would not 
remain. Wheuever Johnny wanted to go out, Moloch was asleep, and must be 
watehed. Whenever Johany wanted to stay at home, Moloch was awake, aud 
must be taken out, Yet Johnny was verily persuaded that It was # faultless 
baby, without its peer in the realin of England; and was quite content to catch 
meek glimpses of things in graeral from behind Its skirts, or over ita limp flxp- 
ping borvet, and to go staggering about with it like m very little porter with « 
‘very large parcel, which was not directed to anybody, and could uever be deliv: 
ered anywhere, 











The Personal History of David 
Copperfield the Dounger. 


‘Tus work, which Is by many considered to be Dickens's masterpiece, wat 
‘sriginalle brought out under the following tide: “The Personal History, Adven- 
tures, Experiences, and Observations of David Copperfield the Younger, of Blum 
derstone Rookery (which ho never meant to be published on any account).” It 
‘was lequed in twenty monthly parts, with two illustrations by “I’hiz” (Eablot K, 
Browne’ in each part. The first number appeared May 1, 140; and the preface 
was dated October, 1880. In it the author thus spoke of his work: 


Of all my books, f Like this tho best, Tt will be easily believed that Tam * fond parent 
fo erecy child of my fincy, and that no one can ever love that fuunily a« dearly as X love 
‘them; bat, like many fund parents, E have lo my heart of hearts # fevorite obild, and 
is name fe Davi CorrExrre:o. 

‘Mr. Dickens's affeetion for his child was easlly accounteu for. It was at once 
teen that D.C, was only 0, D. reversed, and that the story must be In several 
Important respects autoblographic; for the hero, like the author, was emplayed In 
& lawyer's office, then turned parliamentary reporter, and finally became @ su 
cessful novelist, But that the painful struggles and experiences of Copperfield’s 
boyhood were a mere transcript of the writer's own sufferings and foellngs wae 
‘ot fully known until the publication of Forster's Life of Dickens.” Yet such 
was the case, 








For the poor little 1nd — with good ability and ® mest sensitive nature, turned at the age 
ton {nto “laboring hind ™ in the eervioe of “Murdetone and Grinby,"* and eonselous 
Mroady of what made It seem very strange to him that he could 40 eaally have boom 
shrown away at such an age — was indeed himself, His was the secret sgony of sal at 
nding himself “ companion to Mick Walkor wnd Mealy Potatoes: ™ and lus the taars tha 
ingled with the water in which heand they rinsed and washed out bottles, Tt had all 
‘econ written as fot, before he thought of mny other use for It; and [twas not anti several 


onthe later — when the fancy of * David Copportield,"" Itanlf suggested by what ho hae 
200 














0 writen of his early troabien, began to take shape tn his mind —thet he abandoned his 
iret intention of writing his own Life. ‘Those warehouse experiences fell then so aptly 
Into the subject he had chosen, that he could not resist the temptation of immediately 
‘using them) and the manuscript reconting tha, which was bat the Srst portion of what 
hho had dealyned to write, was embodied 1a the substance of the ¢-eventh and eartier chep 
ters of his novel. 





CHARACTERS INTRODUCED. 


Adams. Head boy at Doctor Strong’s; affuble and good-humored, 
and with a turn for mathemati: (Ch. xvi, xviii.) 


Babley, Richard, called Mr. Dick. A mild lunatic, and a protége 
‘of Miss Betsey Trotwood’s, who insists that he is not mad. 


“He had « favorite sister,” sald my aunt, —“ a good creature, and very kind 
to him: but she aid what they all do,—took ahusband; and Ae did what they all 
do,—made her wretched. It had such nn effect upon the mind of Mr. Dick, 
(that 's not madness, I hope!) that, combined with his fear of hls brother and 
‘hs sense of his unkindness, it threw him Into m fever. ‘That was before he 
‘came to me; but the recollection of it is oppressive to him even now. Did he 
‘aay nny thing to you about King Charles the Firat, child?” 

“Yes, aunt.” 

“ AhI" said my aunt, rubbing her noso as if she were a little vexed. “That's 
this allegorical way of expressing It. He connects hia illnexs with grent dls 
turbatioe wbd Wgitation, naturally; and that *s the figure, or the simile, or what 
‘ever ft % called, which he chooses to use. And why should n't he, if he thiake 

Traid, “Cortainly, aunt.” 

“It 's not a business-like way of sponking,” sald my aunt, ‘nor a worldly 
‘way. Tam aware of that; and that’s the reason why I inalst upon it that there 
sha?n’t be a word about tt In his memorial.” 

“Is It a memorial about his own history that he ts writing, aunt?” 

“Yer, child,” said my aunt, rubbing her nose again, “He i memorialla- 
ing the Lord Chancellor, or the Lord Somebody or other, —one of those people, 
at all events, who are paid to Ye memorialized, — about his alfairs. T suppose it 
will go in one of these days. He has n't been able to draw {t up yet, without 
introducing that mode of expressing himself; but it don't algnify; it keeps 














To fact, I foond out afterwards that Mr. Dick had been for upwards of 
‘years endeavoring to koop King Charles the First out of the memoriol; 
had bern constantly getting into It, and was there now. 


(Ch. xiii-xy, xvii, xix, xxxiy, xxxvi, xxviii, xlii, xliii, xlv, xlix, 
Ui, liv, Ix, Ix, Ixiv.) 
Bailey, Captain. An admirer of the eldest Mies Larkina (Ch. 
xviil.) 





292 She Wickens Bieri onary, 


Barkis, Mr, A carrier who takes David Copperfielé from Blan 
derstone to Yarmouth, on his first being sent away to school. 
As they jog along, Copperfield asks Mr. Barkis if thoy are going 
no farther than Yarmouth together, 


That's about it,” said the carrler. “And there I shall take you to the 
stage-cutch; and the stage-catch, that "ll take you to—wherever ft bx. 

As this was a great deal for the carrier to say,—he being of a phiegmatio 
temperament, and not at all conversational, — I offered bim n cake as a mark of 
‘attention, which he ate at one gulp, exactly like an elephant; and which 
made no more impression on his big face than it would hare done on an ele 
phant’s, 

“Did she make ’em, now?” sald Mr. Burkis, always leaning forward, tn kis 
Slouching way, on the footboard of the cart, with an arm on each knee, 

“ Peggotty, do you mean, wir?” 

“Ant” sald Mr. Barkls,— “her” 

‘es. She makes all our pastry, and does all our cooking,” 
“Do she, though?” sald Mr. Burkle. 

‘He made up his mouth as if to whistle; but he did n't whistle. He sat looking 
at the horse's ears as if he saw something new there, and sat so for # consider- 
able time, By and by, he sald,— 

“ No sweethearts, I bilieve?” 

“Sweotments, did you say, Mr. Barkis?” For I thought he wanted some 
thing else to eat, and had pointedly alluded to that description of refresh: 
ment. 

“Hearts,” sald Mr. Darkis, —“ sweethearts; no persoo walks with her?” 

“ With Peggotty 2” 

“ AL he said. —“‘her.” 
jh, nol She never had a sweetheart,/” 

“Did n’t she, though?” said Mr, Barkis. 

Again he made up his mouth to whistle, and again he did n’t whistle, bat rat 
looking at the horse's ears. 

Bo she makes," said Mr. Barkis, after a long interval of refleetion, “all the 
‘spple-parsties, and does all the cooking; do she?” 

I roplied that such was the fact. : 

© Well, I'll tel! you what," said Mr. Barkis. "raps you might be writin’ to 
ner?” 

“T ahall cortalnly write to her," I rejoined. 

“AI” be sald, slowly turning his eyes towards me. “Well! If you was 
‘writin’ to her, p'raps you ‘d recollect to say that Barkis was willin’; would 























“That Barkis was willing,” I repeated innocently. “Is that all the mea 
sage?” 

“ Te—es,"" ho anid, considering. “ Ye—es: Barkla Ja willin’ 

“But you will be at Blunderstone ngain tomorrow, Mr. Barkley: T sald 
fuitering a little at the idea of my being far away from it then, “and vali give 
your own measage 40 much better.” 

As he repudiated this suggestion, however, with a Jerk of his heat, and onee 
‘more confirmed his previous request by saying with profound gravity, *Barkle 
fa willin’; that the mexsngo,”’ I rendily undertook its transmission. ‘While 
I was walting for the coach in the hotel at Yarmouth, that very afternoon, T 
procured a sheet of paper and an inkstand, and wrote a note to Peggotty, whicn 

















Davl(d Copperllele, 293 


‘Fan thos: “ My dear Poggotty, Ihave come here enfb, Barkis ts willing. My 
Jove to mamma. Yours affectionately. P.S.—Ho says be particularly wants 
‘you to know — Baris de willing." 

After the death of her mistress, Peggotty becomes “willin’™ also, 
and marries Mr. Barkis, who makes her a very good husband, save 
that he is “ rather near,” as she expresses it, and jealously guards 
a box under his bed, which contains bis money and valuables; 
although he persists in telling everybody that it is “old clothes,” 
At last he is taken very ill; and David goes down from Lordon to. 
visit him. 

~“Barkis, my dear,” said Peggotty, . . . bending over him, . . .“ Hero’ 
my dear boy,—my dear boy, Muster Davy, who brought us together, Bar 
Kis; that you eent messages by, you know! Won't you speak to Master 
Davy?” 

‘He was as mute and senseless as the box, from which his form derived the 


‘only expression it had, 
“He 's mgolng out with the tide,” sald Mr. Peggotty to me, behind his 





My eyos wore dim, and eo were Mr. Peggotty’e; but I repeated In a whisper, 
“With the tide?”” 

“People can't die along the coast," sald Mr. Peggotty, “except when the 
tide "s pretty nigh out, ‘They can’t de born unless it "s pretty nigh in,—not 
properly born, till food. He ’s a-going out with the tide. It’ ebb at halé-arter 
three, slack water half an hour, If he lives till t turns, ho ‘ll hold his own tlt 
past the flood, and go out with the next tide.” 

We remained there, watching him, a long time,—hours. What mysterious 
Influence my presence had upon him In that state of his senses, I shall not pre- 
tend to say; but, when he at Inst began to wuuder feebly, it is certain he waa 
‘muttering about driving me to school. 





Mr, aud whispered with much awe and reverenos, 
“They are both a-golng out fast.” 

“ Barkis, my dear!” sald Peggotty. 

“C. P, Darkis,” he oried faintly, Yo better woman anywhere! 

“Look! Here "s Master Dary1” sald Peggotty. For he now opened hls 

oo 

Twas on the point of asking him if he knew me, when he tried to stretch out 

his arin, aud sald to me distinctly, with m pleasent smile, 

«Baris ts willln’ 1" A 

And, {t being low water, he went out with the tide, 

(Ch. ii-y, vii, viii, x, xxix, xxsi.) 

Barkis, Mrs. See Peacorry, Ciara. 

Charley. A dranken, ugly old dealer in second-hand sailor's clothes 
and marine stores, te whom David Copperfield sells his jacket for 
fourpence when travelling on foot to his aunt's. (Ch. xiii.) 

Chestle, Mr. A hop-zrower; a plain, elderly gentleman, wie 
marries the eldsst Miss Larkins. (Ch. xviii.) 

20° 





204 Ede Wickens Mictlonary. 


Chillip, Mr. The doctor who officiates at the birth of David 
Copperfield. (Ch. i, ii, ix, x, xxii, xxx, lix.) 

‘He was tho meckest of hile sex, tho mildest of little men. He ¢idled In and 
‘out of » room to tako up the less space. He walked as softly us the Ghost in 
“ Hamlet,” and more slowly. He earried his heed on one aide, — partly ia modest 
depreciation of himself, partly in modest propitiation of everybody alae. It ie 
‘nothing to say that be had n’t a word to throw at a dog. Ife could n't have 
‘thrown a word at a mad di 

Clickett, An “orfling” girl from St. Luke's Workhouse; servant 
to the Micawbers. She is a dark-complexioned young woman with 
ahabit of snorting, (Ch. xi, xii.) 

Cop) Mrs. Clara. The mother of David; an artless, 
affectionate little woman, whom Miss Betsey Trotwood insists upon 
calling a mere baby. She marrics Mr. Murdstone, a stern man, 
who, in conjunction with his sister, attempts to teach her “ firmness," 
but breaks her heart in the experiment. (Ch. i-iv, viii, ix) See 
Correrrietp, Daviv. 

Copperfield, David. The character from whom the story takes its 
name, and by whom it issupposed to be told. He is a 
child, having been born six months after his father’s death. His 
mother, young, beautiful, inexperienced, loving, and lovable, not 
long afterwards marries a handsome and plausible, but hard and 
stern man,—Mr. Murdstone by name,— who soon crushes her 
gentle spirit by his exacting tyranny and by his cruel treatment of 
hor boy. After being for some time instructed at home by his 
mother, and reduced to a state of dullness and sullen desperation 
by his step-father, David is sent from home, He is sent toa vile 
Ininous school, near London, kept by one Creakle, where he receives 
more stripes than lowons. Here he is kept until the death of his 
mother, when his step-father sends him (he being now ten years 
old) to London, to be employed in Murdstone and Grinby's ware 
house in washing out empty wine-bottles, pasting labels om them 
when filled, and the like, at a salary of six shillings a week, But 
such is the secret agony of his soul at sinking into companionship 
with Mick Walker, “Mealy Potatoes” and other boys with whom 
be is forced to associate, that he at length resolves to ram away, 
and throw himself upon the kindness of great-aunt (Miss Brtsey 
Trotwood), whom he has never seen, but of whose eccentric habite 
and singular manner he has oftea heard. She receives him mack 
better than he has expected, and soon adopts him, and sends him te 
ecbool in the neighborimg town of Canterbury. He does well here 




















. 
BDavlo Coppertiely. 295 


and finally graduates with high honors. Having made up bis mind to 
become a proctor, he enters the office of Mr. Spenlow, in London. 
Soon after this, his aunt loses the greater part of her property; and 
David, being compelled to look about him for the means of subsist 
ence, learns the art of stenography, and supports himself comfart- 
ably by reporting the debates in parliament. In the mean time he 
has fallen desperately in love with Dora, the daughter of Mr. Spen- 
Jor, but has been discouraged in his suit by the young lady’s father. 
‘Mr. Spenlow dying, however, he becomes her accepted suitor. ‘Turn+ 
ing his attention soon after to authorship, he acquires a reputation, 
and obtains constant employment on magazines and periodicals, He 
‘now marries Dora, a pretty, captivating, affectionate girl, but utterly 
Ignorant of every thing practical. It is not long before David dis 
covers that it will be altogether useless to expect that his wife will 
develop any stability of character, and he resolves to estimate her by 
the good qualities she has, and not by those which she has not. One 
night, she says to him in a very thoughtful manner that she wishes 
him to call her his “ child-wifi.” 


Tt a stupid name,” she sald, shaking her curls for a moment, —"child-wife.» 

‘Tiaughingly asked my ehild-wife what her funcy was in desiring to be so called. 
Sho answered without moving, otherwise than as the arm I twined about her may 
‘have brought her bine eyes nearer to me, — 

“ Fdon't mean, you silly fellow, that you should use the name instead of Dora: 
Lonly mean that you should think of me that way. When you are golng to be 
angry with mo, say to yourself, *1t 's only my child-wife,’ When I nm very dis- 
appointing, say, ‘T knew, a long time ago, that she would make but a child-wife.’ 
When you miss what I should like to be, and I think eas never be, any, Still xy 
foolish child-wifo loves me. For indeod I do."” 

Thad not been serious with her, having no idea, uatil now, that she was serl 
‘ous herself. But her affectionate nature was so happy in what I now said to her 
with my whole heart, that her face became a tanghing one before her glittering 
‘eyes were dry. She wns coon my child-wife indeed, sitting down on the floor out- 
tide the Chinese House, ringing all the little bells one after another, to punish Jip 
for his recent bad behavior; while Jip Jay blinking in the doorway with his head 
out, even too lazy to be teased. 

‘This appeal of Dora's made a strong impression on me. T look back on the 
time I write of; I invoke the innocent figure that I dearly loved, to come out from 
the mists and shadows of the past, and turn {ts gentle head towards me ouce 
‘agnin; and T can still declare that this one little speech was constantly In my 
memory. 

At length Dora fulls into a decline, and grows weaker aud weaker, 
day by day. 

ats night, and Iam with hor still. Agnes has arrived; has been among us for 
‘a whole day and an evening. She, my aunt, and I have sat with Dora since the 
‘morning, all together, We have not talked much; but Dora has been perfeetiy 
seutented and cheerful. We are now alone, 












206 be Michens MDlctlonary. 


‘Do I know now that my child-wife will oon leave me? They have told me +o 
they have told me nothing new to my thoughts; but I am far from eure that TLave 
taken that troth to heart. Ioannot master tt, » - » Ecwunot shut out » pale lager 
lng sbadow of belief that ste will be spared. 

“Lam going to apeak to you, Doady, I am golng to xay something I have 
‘cften thonght of saying Intely. You won't mind?” with m gentle look, 

“Mind, my darling?” 

“ Because I don't know what will think, or what you may have thought 
‘sometimes, Ierhaps you have often thought the same. Doady, dear, 1 am afraid 
‘Twas too young.” 

T Jay my fuce upon the pillow by her, and abe looks into my eyes, and speaks 
very softly. Gradually, as she goes on, T feel with m atricken heart that she te 
speaking of herself as past. 

“Tam afraid, dear, I was too young: don't mean tn years only, but In experl- 
ence and thoughts and every thing. I was such as'lly little creature! Tam afraid 
4t would have beon better if we had only loved each other as a boy and giel, and 
forgotten it. I have begun to think I was not iit to be a wife.” 

T try to stay my tears, and to reply, “O Dora, love! —as it aa I to be a hus 











don’t know,” with the old shake of her curls. “Perhaps. But, ifThnd been 
more fit to be married, { might have made you more #0 too. Besides, you arevery 
‘lover, aud I never was.” 

re have been very happy, my sweet Dora” . 

“Twas very happy, very. But as years went on my dear boy would hare 
‘wearled of bis child-wife. She would have been less and less a companion for 
him. He would have boon more and more sensible of what was wanting in his 
homo, She wonld n't have tmproved. It is better as it i.” 

“© Dora, dearest, dearest, do not speak to me sol Every word seems a ree 
proach.” 

No, not a syllablet * she anxwers, kissing me. ...“O Dosdy! after more 
years, you never could have loved your child-wife better than you do; and after 
‘more yeara she would so haye tried and disappolated you, that you might not have 
been able to lore her half 40 well. I know I was too young and foollah, It lt 
auch better ns It fs." 


‘After the death of his wife, David goes abroad, passing through 
many weary phases of mental distreey, Daring his absence, Agnes 
WVickfield, a dear friend of Dora’s and of himself, writes to him. 





Sho gave mo.no advice; aho urged no duty on me; ahe only told me in her own 
fervent manner what her trust iu me wns. She knew (she sald) how such & na 
tare as mine would turn alliietion to good. She knew how trial and emotion would 
‘exalt and strongthon It. She was ere, that, in my every pur; 2%, Tahould gata ® 
firmer and a higher tendency through the grief t hnd undergone, She who 6 
Worled in my fame, and 40 looked forward to Itt augmentation, well knew that T 
would labor on. She knew that in me sorrow could not be weakness, but muse 
de strength. As the endurance of my childish days had done its part to make me 
‘what I was, #0 greater calamities would nerve me on to be yet better than ¥ was 
and 50, as they had taught me, would I teach others. She commended me to God 
who had taken my fsnocent darling to his rest: and in her sisterly affection cher 
Ished me always, and was always at my alde, go where I would, proud of what = 
‘aad done, but infinitely prouder yet of what I was reserred to do. 











Davlo Coppertte! 





When throe years have passed, David ret.rns to England, where 
his few works have already made him famous. But wore than all 
else he values the praise and encouragement he receives from 
Agnes, whom he has come to think the better angel of his life, and 
whom he would gladly make his wife, did he not believe that her 
feeling towards him was merely one of sisterly affection, and that 
she has formed a deeper attachment for another. He discovers at 
Jast, Lowever, that she loves him only, and that she has loved him 
all her life; though she unselfishly subdued the feelings of her heart 
20 far as to rejoice sincerely in his marriage to Dora. They ars 
‘soon united, and she then tells him that Dora, on tho last night of 
hor life, expressed the earnest wish that she, and she alone, should 
suceced to her place. 

And now, as I close my task, subduing my desire to linger yet, these thoes 
fade away. But one faeo, ahining on me like 2 heavenly light, by whieh I 520 
ail other objects, is above them and beyond them all. And that remains. 

Tturn my head, and see it in its benutiful serenity beside me. My lamp burns 
Jow, and I hare written fur Into the night; but the dear presence, without 
whieh I'were nothing, bears mo company, 

© Agnes, oh, my soul, s0 may thy face be by me when I close my life indeed! 
0 may I, when realities aro melting from me like the shadows which I now 
dismiss, still find thee near me, pointing upward! 
Copperfield, Mra. Dora. See Spentow (Dora), and Correr- 
PreLp (Davi), 2 
Creakle, Mr. Master of Salem House, the school to which David 
Copperfield is sent by Mr. Murdstone; an ignorant and ferocious 
Lrute, who prides himself on being a * Tartar.” (Ch. v=vii, ix, Ixi.) 


‘Mr. Creakle’s fhoe wns fory; and lis eyes were small, and deep in his head; 
hho had thick veins In his forehead, a little nose, and a large chin, He was bald 
on the top of hie head; and had some this, wet-looking hair, that was Just tum: 
ing gray, brushed across each temple, 60 that the two sides interlaced on bis fore 
head, But the clecumstance about him which impressed me most was, that he 
had no voice, but spoke In a whixper. ‘The exertion thia cost him, or the con 
selounness of talking In that focble way, made his angry face so much more 
angry, and his thick velus so much thicker, when he spoke, that Tam not sur 
prised, on looking back, at this peculiarity striking mo as his chief one, 














I should think there never can have been a man who enjoyed hls profession 
more than Mr.Creakle did. Ie had a delight In entting at the boys, which was 
ke the satisfaction of a craving mppotite. 1 um confident that he could n't 
Tealst a chubby boy, expecially; that there was n fasciaation in such ® wubject, 
which made him restless io his mind urtll he kad scored and marked him for 
che day... . Miserable little propitiators of a remorseless Idol how abject we 
‘were to him! What s jaunch {n life I think it now, on looking back, to be + 
miro and servile ton man of such parts and protensions| 








298 E5e Dickenu Dicetfonary. 


Mere I sit at thederkaguln, watching his eye— humbly watehing Lis ¢ye—us 
he rales a cipheringybook for another victim whore hands have just been flat 
tened by that identteal ruler, and who Is trying to wipe the sting oat with « 

. Ehave plenty to do. I don't wateh his eye In idienees, 
‘Dut because I am morbidly attracted to It in ® droad desire to know what 
be will do next, and whether it will be my turn to suffer, or somebody else's. A 
Jano of stall boys beyond me, with the same interest In his €ye, watch It too. 
T think he knows it; though he pretends he don’t, Io makes dreadful moutha 
‘as he rules the ciphering-book; and now he throws his eye sideways down our 
Jane, aud we all droop over our books, and tremble. A moment afterwards we 
‘are again eying bim. Ao paper malpit, fone patiy X. Espetins eos 
‘approaches at his command. ‘The culprit falters excuses, and professes a doter- 
‘mination to do better to-morrow. Mr. Creakle cats a joke before he beata him, 
and we laugh at it, —misornble little doge, we langh, with our visages as white 
‘as ashos, and our hearts sinking into our boots, 
Mrs. His wife; a thin and quiet woman, ill-treated by 
her husband. (Ch. vi, ix.) 

Creakle, Miss, Rance supposed to be in love with 
Steerforth. (Ch. vi, vil, ix.) 

Crewler, Mrs. Wife of the Reverend Horace Crewler; a very 
superior woman, who has lost the use of her limbs. She becomes 
the mother-in-law of Traddles. Whatever occurs to harass hor (aa 
the engagement and prospective loss of her daughters) usually settles 
in her legs, but sometimes mounts to her chest and head, and per- 
vades her whole system in a most alarming manner, (Ch. xxiv, 
xxii, Ix.) 

Crewler, Miss Caroline. Eldest daughter of Mra. Crewler; a 
very handsome girl, who marries a dashing vagabond, but soon sep- 
arates from him. (Cb. xli, Ix, Ixiv.) 

Crewler, Miss Louisa. Mrs Crewler’s third daughter. (Ch. 
xii, be, Ixiv.) 

Crewler, Miss Lucy. One of Mrs. Crewler's two youngost 
daughters, educated by her sister Sophy. (Ch. xli, Ix, Ixiv.) 

OCrewler, Miss Margaret. One of Mra. Crewler's two young~ 
est daughters, educated by her sister Sophy. (Ch. xli, Ix, Ixvi.) 

Crewler, Miss Sarah. Mrs. Crewler’s second daughter. (Ch. 
xxxiv, xli, Ix, Lxiv.) 

Crewler, Miss Sophy. Fourth da: ghter of Mrs. Crewler; alwaya 
forgetful of herself, always cheerful. and amiable, and as much a 
mother to her mother (who is a confirmed invalid) as she is ta 
her sisters, She becomes the wife of Tommy Traddles, who re — 
gards her bosh before and after marriage as “the dearest gitl ir 
the world.” (Ch. xxvii, xxviii, xxxiv, xli, xliii, lix, lxi, Lxil, Lxke.) 








Dablv Coppertlel, 299 


Crewler, The Reverend Horace. A poor Devonshire clergy- 
man, with a large family and asick wife. (Ch. xxiv, xli, Lx, lxiv.) 

Crupp, Mrs. A stout woman living in Buckingham Street, in the 
Adelphi, who lets a set of furnished chambers to David Coppers 
field when he becomes an articled clerk in the office of Spenlow 
ond Jorkins. She is a martyr to a curious disorder called.“ the 
spazzums,” which is generally accompanied with inflammation of the 
nose, and requires to be constantly treated with peppermint. (Ch. 
xxiiicexvi, xxviii, xxxlv, xxv, xxvii.) 

Dartle, Rosa. A lady some thirty years old, living with Mra 
Steerforth as a companion, and passionately in love with her son, 
who does not retarn her affection. She is of a slight, short figure, 
and a dark complexion; has black hair, and largo black eyes, 
and a remarkable sear on her lip, caused by a wound from a ham- 
mer thrown at her by Steerforth, when @ boy, in a moment of 
exasperation. She is very clover, bringing every thing to  grind- 
stone, and even wearing herself away by constant sharpening, till 
she is all edge. (Ch. xx, xxi, xxiv, xxix, xxii, xxxvi, xlvi, }, lvi, 
Ixiv.) 

Demple, George. A schoolmate of David Copperfield’s at Sa- 
Jem House. (Ch. ¥, vii.) 

Dolloby, Mr, A dealer in second-hand clothes, rags, bones, and 
Kitchen-stuff, to whom Dayid Copperfield sells his waistcoat for 
ninepence when he ri way from “ Murdstone and Grinby's” to 
seek his aunt, (Ch. 

Dora. See Srextow, Dora. 

Em'ly, Little. Nieco and adopted danghter of Mr. Peggotty, and 
the object of David Copperfield’s first love. She is afterwards 
betrothed to her cousin Ham, but is seduced by Steerforth. (Ch. 
iil, vil, x, xvil, xxi-xxiii, xxx.) See Srexnvonru, (Jans). 

Endell, Martha. An unfortunate young woman, without money or 
reputation, who finally discovers “Little Emly,” and restores her 
toher uncle. She is reclaimed, and emigrates to Australia, where 
she marries happily. (Ch. xxii, xl, xlvi, xIvii, 1, li, Ivii, Lxili.) 

Fibbetson, Mrs. An old woman, inmate of an almshouse. (Ch. 
y) 

George. Guard of the Yarmouth mail. (Ch. v.) 

Grainger. A friend of Steerforth’s, and a very gay and lively feb 
low. (Ch. xxiv.) 

Grayper, Mr. A neighbor of Mrs. Copperfield. (Ch. ix, xxii.) 








——— 


300 Ede Dickens Bret Mae. 





Grayper, Mrs. His wife. (Ch. ii, xxii.) 

Gulpidge, Mr. A guest of he Wak who has enti 
todo at second-hand with the law business of the Bank. (Ch. 
=xv.) 

Gulpidge, Mrs. His wife. (Ch. xxv.)- 

Gummidge, Mrs. The widow of Mr. Peggotty’s partner, Her 
husband dying poor, Mr. Poggotty offers her a home, and supports 
her for years; and this kindness she acknowledges by sitting in the 
most comfortable corner, by the fireside, and complaining that she is 
“a lone, lorn creetur, and everythink goes contrairy with her.” 
(Ch, iii, vii, x, xxi, xxii, xxxi, xxxii, xl, li, lvii, Lxiii.) 

Hamlet's Aunt. See Srrxer, Mrs, Henry, 

Heep, Mrs. A very ‘umble widow woman, mother of Uriah Heep, 
‘and his “dead image, only short." (Ch. xvii, xxxix, xlil, Iii, Ixi.) 

Heep, Uriah. A clerk in the law-oflice of Mr. Wickfield, whose 
partner he afterwards becomes. David Copperficld’s first: meeting 
with him is thus deseribed : — 

‘When the pony-chalre stopped at the door, and my eyes were Intent upon 
the house, I saw a cadayerous face appear at a smnall window on the ground- 
floor (tn a little round tower that formed one aide of the house), and quickly 
disappear. ‘The lowarched door then opened, and the fies came out. Tt was 
quite as cadaverous as it had looked In the window; though, in the grain of it, 
‘there was that tinge of red which is sometimes to be observed In the aklas of 
red-halred people. Itbelonged toa red-haired perscn, =m youth of fifteen, as I 
take It now, but looking much older, — whose hnir was cropped as close as tha 
closest atubble; who had hardly any eyebrows, and no eyelashes, aud eyes of 
a red-brown, 20 unsheltered and unshaded, that T remember wondering how 
he went to sleep. He was high-shouldered and bony; dressed in decent black 
with a white wisp of a neck-cloth; buttoned up to the throat; and bad & Tong 
Jank, skeleton hand, which particularly attracted my attention ms he stood mt 
the pony's head, rubbing his chin with it, and looking up at us tn the chaise, 


‘The following conversation takes place a little while after 
wards: — 


“T nuppose you are quite great lawyer,” 1 said, after looking a nlm for 
some time, 

“ Me, Master Copperfield?” said Uriah. “Oh, no! Ima very ’umble pers 
ton." 

It was no fancy of mine about his hands, £ observed; for he frequently 
ground the palms against each other as if to squeeze them dry and warm, be 
tides often wiping them, tn a stealthy way, on his pocket-handkerchief. 

~ Tam well aware that 1 am the ‘umblest pervon going,” said Uriah Heep 
modestly, “lot the other be where he may. My mother is Ukewise = very 
tumble person. We livein a numble abode, Master Copperfield, bat have much 
to be thankful for, My farber’s former calling was'umbie. ie was a sextug” 

“ What is be now?” Tasked. 











URIAH HERP AND HIS MOTITER 








Davy Coppertlelo. 30a 


Me te w partaker of glory at present, Master Copperfield,” ania Uriah Heep 
Rat we have much to be thankful for. How much have I to be thankful fo» 
living with Mr. Wickfeld!" 


As time runs on, David finds that Uriah is obtaining an un- 
‘bounded influence over Mr. Wickficld, whom he deludes in evry 
possible way, and whose business he designedly perplexes and com- 
plicates in order to get it wholly into his own hands; and, further~ 
more, that he locks with greedy eyes upon Mr, Wickficld’s daughter 
Agnes, to whom David himself is warmly attached. He even gocs 
0 far as to boast of this, and to declare his intention of making 
her his wife. 

asked him, with a better appearance of composure than f could have thought 

4 minute before, whether he had made his feelings known to Agnes. 

“Oh, no, Master Copperfield!" he returned, —“ ob, dear, no! Not toany one 
but sou. You reo { am ouly just emerging from my lowly station, I rest m 
good deal of hope on her observing how useful I am to her father (for X trust 
to be very useful to hii indeed, Master Copperfield), and how I smooth the 
way for him, and keep him stralght. Sho’ eo much attached to her father, 
Master Copperfield. (ob, what a lovely thing it is {a a daughter!) that X think 
the may come, on hls account, to be kind to me.” 

T futhomed the depth of the rascal's whole scheme, snd understood why he 
laid St bare. 

“If yoo "il hare the goodness to koep my secret, Master Copperfield,” he 

“and not, in general, to go aguinst me, { aball take it as & particular 
favor, You would n't wish to make unpleasantacss. I know what a friendly 
‘heart you 'vo got; but, having only known me on my ‘umble footing (on my 
*umblest, I should say; for t am very Tumble still), you might, unbeknown, go 
against mo, rather, with my Agnes. I call her mie, you see, Master Copper- 
field, ‘Thore "sn tong that eays, ‘Td crowns resign to call her imine!’ Thope 
to do it, one of these days.” 

Uriah goes on weaving his meshes around Agnes and her father 
until he has them completely in his power. But his rascality is at 
last unravelled and exposed by Mr. Micawber; and Mr. Wickfield 
not only recovers all the property of which he has been defrand- 
ed, but is absolved from all suspicion of any criminal act or intent. 
Uriah pursucs his calling in another part of the country, but ix 
finally arrested for fraud, forgery, and conspiracy, and is sentenced 
to solitary imprisonment. (Ch. xv—xvii, xix, x ev, xxxy, xxxvi, 
xxxix, xlii, xlix, lii, liv, Lx) 

Hopkins, Captain.. A prisover for debt, in tne King’s Bench 
Prison, at the time that Mr. Micawber is also confined there. Un- 
‘ler this name is described a certain Captain Porter, who was a 
fellow-prisoner with Mr. Jokn Dickens in the Marshalsea Prison 


sbout the year 1822 (Ch. xi) 
Py 





Ww 

















302 The Dickens Dictionary, 


Janet, Miss Betsey Trotwood’s handmaid. (Ch. xili-xy, axiii 
sooxx, xllii, bx.) 

Jip (a contraction of Grrsx). Dora’a pot dog. (Ch. xxvi, 
xxxill, xxxvi-xxxviil, xli-xliv, xlviii, lii, li.) 

Joram, Mr. The partner and son-in-law of Mr. Omer the under 
taker. (Ch. ix, xxi, xxiii, xxx, li, lvi) 

Joram, Mrs, See Omer, Miss Mrxwre, 

Jorkins, Mr, A proctor, partna of Mr, Spenlow. (Ch. xxiii, 
xxix, xxxv, xxxvili, xxix.) 

‘He wasa mild man of a hear) temperament, whose placo ta the business 
was to keep himeelf in the background, and be constantly exhibited, by name, 
‘os the most obdurate nnd ruthless of nem, If. clork wanted his salary raised, 
Mr. Jorkins would n’t listen to such a proposition; if a client were slow to 
settle his bill of costs, Mr, Jorkins was resolved to have it paid: and, however 
Painful these things might be (and always wore) to the feelings of Mr. Spen- 
Tow, Mr, Jorkins would have his bond. The heart and hand of the good angel 
Rpenlow would hare been always open, bat for the restraining demon Jorkins. 
As I have grown older, I think I have had experience of some other houser 
doing business on the principle of Speulow and Jorkins. 


Lerkins, Miss. tall, dark, black-eyed, fine figure of n woman, 
‘of about thirty, with whom David Copperfield falls desperately in 
love when about seventeen. His passion for her is beyond all 


bounds ; but she crushes his hopes by marrying a hop-grower. (Ch. 
xviiL) 
Larkins, Mr. Her father; a gruff old gentleman with a double 
chin, and one of his yes immovable in his head. (Ch. xviii) 
Littimer. Confidential servant of Stecrforth. (Ch. xxi-xxili, 
xxviii, xxix, xxxi, xxxii, xlvi, xi.) See Srexrvontm, JAMES. 


T believe there never existed in his station » more respectableJooking man, 
Me was taciturn, soft-footed, very quiet in his manner, deferential, obserrant, 
always at hand when wanted, and never near when not wanted; but his grest 
claim to consideration was his respectability. He had not a pliant fee; he had 
rather @ atiif neck, rather a tight smooth head with short hair clinging to It at 
‘the rides, n soft way of «peaking, with a peculiar hablt of whispering the lotter 
§ so distinctly, that he scemed to use it oftener thin any other man: bit every 
peculiarity that he had he made respectable. . ,. He surrounded himself with 
an atmosphere of respectability, and walked secure in it. It would have been 
next to Impossible to suspect him of any thing wrong, he was so thoroughly 
respectable. Nobody could bave th 





have Lwen to luflict a Wanton insult on the feclings’of a most respectable man. 


Maldon, Jack, Cousin to Mrs. Doctor Strong; an idle, needy 
libe tine with a handsome face, a rapid utterance, and a confident 
bold air, (Ch. xvi, xix, xxxvi, xli, xly, lxiv.) 





WV IH(My 





MR. MICAWRER AND HIS FAMILY, 





Davl(y Coppertiety. 303 


Markham. A gay and lively fellow of not more than twenty; # 
friend of Steerforth's. (Ch. xxiv, xxv.) 

Markleham, Mrs. Mother of Mrs. Doctor Strong. (Ch xvi, xix, 
xxxvi, xiii, xlv, Ixiv.) 

‘Our boys used to call hor the Old Soldier, on account of her generalship and 
the skill with which she marshalled great forces of relutlons against the doctor. 
‘She was a little, sharp-cyed woman, who sed to wear, when she was dressed, 
‘one unchangeable cup, ornamented with some artificial flowers, and two arth 
fivial butterflies supposed to be hovering about the flowers. 

Mealy Potatoes. (So called on account of his pale complexion.) 
A boy employed at Murdstone and Grinby’s wine-store, with David 
Copperfield and others, to examine bottles, wash them oat, label 
and cork them, and the like. (Ch. xi.) 

Mell, Mr. Charles. An under master at Salem House, Mr. 
Creakle’s school, He is a gaunt, sallow young man, with hollow 
cheeks, and dry and rusty hair. Mr. Creakle discharges him 
because it is ascertained that his mother lives on charity in an 
alms-house, He emigrates to Australia, and finally becomes 
Doctor Mell of Colonial Salem-House Grammar-School. (Ch. 
v-vii, Ixiii.) 

Mell, Mrs. His mother. (Ch. ¥, vii.) 

Micawber, Master Wilkins, Son of Mr. Wilkins Micawber, 
He has & remarkable head voice, and becomes a chorister-boy in 
the cathedral at Canterbury. At a later date, he acquires a high 
reputation as an amateur singer. (Ch. xi, xii, xvii, xxvii, xvi, 
xlii, xlix, lii, liv, lvii, Ixiv.) 

Micawber, Miss Emma. Daughter of Mr. Wilkins Micawber; 
afterwards Mrs. Ridger Begs of Port Middlcbay, Australia. (Ch. 
xi, xii, xvii, xxvii, xxxvi, xlii, xlix, lii, liv, lvii, Lxiv.) 

Mivawber, Mr. Wilkins. A gentleman—remarkable for his 
reckless improvidence, his pecuniary involvements, his alternate 
elevation and depression of spirits, his love of letter-writing and 
speech-making, his grandiloquent rhetoric, his shabby devices 
for cking out a genteel living, and his constantly “waiting 
for something to turn up”—with whom David Copperfield 
lodges while drudging in the warehouse of Murdstone and Grinby. 
In this character Mr. Dickens has represented some of the 

* experiences and foibles of his own father, who was for several years 
in very embarrased circumstances, and for a time a prisoner for 
debt in the Marshalsea. But two facts should be borne in mind: 
first, that Mr. Dickens thus described his father to a friend (sce 











304 be Dickens Mictlonary. 


Forster's Life of Dickens, vol. i, pp. $7, 88),—“I know my 
to be as kind-hearted and generous a man as ever lived in 
world. Every thing that I can remember of his conduct to his 
or children or friends, in sickness or afiliction, is beyond all 
«++ De never undertook any business, charge, or trust, that he 
not zealously, conscientiously. punctually, honorably dischurge. His 
industry has always been untiring.” Secondly, it must not be fore 
gotten, that, “though Mr, Micawber is represented as careless in 
noney-matters, apt to get into debt, and addicted to getting out of 
it by means of bills and notes of hand, he never says or docs any 
thing at variance with morality or probity. ... He is never mean, 
false, or dishonest.” 

‘Mr. Micawber is thus introduced upon the scene: — 

‘Tho counting house clock was at half-past twelve, and there was general prep- 
aration for golng to dinner, when Mr, Quinion tapped at the counting-house wine 
dow, and beckoned me to go {n. I went in, and found there w stoutish, middie~ 
aged person, In a brown surtout and black tights and shoes, with no more hair 
‘upon his head (which was a large one, and very shining) than there Is upon an 
‘egg, and with a very extensive fice, which he turned full upon me, His clothes 
Wwereshabby; but he had an imposing shirt-collar on. He carried a jaunty sort 
of @ stick with a largo pair of rusty tassels to it; and a quizzinggiase hung 
outside his coat,—for ornament, I afterwards found, as he very seldom looked 
through st, and could n't eee any thing when he did. 

“This,” wald Mr. Quinton, in alluslon fo mysclf, “As he. 

“This,” said the stranger, with s cortain condescending roll in his voles, and # 
certain indescribable air of doing something genteel, which impressed me rery 
snuch, “is Master Copperfield. I hope Laee you well, slr?" 

Trald I was very well, aud hoped he was, I was sufictently ill at ense, 
Hearen knows; but it was not in my nature to complatn much at that time of my 
Life: so T sald I was very well, and hoped he was, 

“Tam,” sald the stranger, “thank Heavent quite well, I hare received 
letter from Mr. Murdstone, in which he mentions that he would desire me to 
receive into an apartment in the rear of my house, which is at present unoceapled, 
and Is, in short, to bo let a4 8—tn short," said the stranger, with a smile, and in w 
burst of confidence,“ ax a bed-room, the young beginner whom I have now the 
pleasure to —and the stranger waved his hand, and settled hls chin in bla abirt- 
collar. 

“This fs Mr Micawber,” sald Mr, Quinlon to 

“ Ahem” said the stranger: “' that Ls my name. 

“ Mr. Micawber,” said Mr. Quinion, “is knowa to Mr, Murdstone, Me take 
crders for us on commission, when he can got any. He has been written to by 
Mr. Murdstone on the subject of your lodgings, and he will reecive you as a 
fodger.” 

When young Copperfield takes possession of his quarters at Mr 
Micawber’s, Windsor Terrace, City Road, he finds the domestic sit 
uation of that gentleman beset with difficulties which to any other 


man would be ‘thoroughly discouraging. 


ick 


Ss 














Dabld Coppertlelv. 305 


‘The only visitors Tever eaw or heard of were creditors. They used to come at 
all hours; and some of them were quite ferocious. One dirty-faced man, I think 
hho was a bootmaker, usnd to edgo himeelf {nto the passagn ax early a8 werwn 
o’elock in the morning, and eall up the stairs to Mr. Mioawber, “Come! You 
aln’t out yet, you know. Pay us, will you? Don’t hide, you know: that "s mean. 
Twould 4’ be mean, If Twas you. Payus, will you? You just pay us: ye hear? 
Come!” Kecwtving no answer to these taants, he would mount in bis wrath to 
the words “windlers” aud “ robbers," and, these being ineffectual to, would 
treet, and roaring up at the wine 
cond floor, where he knew Mr. Micawber was, At these times, Mr. 
Mioawber wpuid be transported with grief and mortification, even to the length 
(os Fwas once made aware by a seream from his wife) of making motions at 
himsolf with a razor; but, within balfan hour afterwards, he would pollah gp hie 
shoos with extraordinary pains, and go out, humming a tune with a greater air of 
gentility than ever. 


Mis difficulties come to a crisis at last, however; and he is arrested 
one morning, and earried to the King’s Bench Prison, saying that the 
god of day has gone down upon him: but before noon he is seen 
playing a lively game of skittles. At last, he applies for release 
under the Insolvent Debtors’ Act; and in due time is sct at liberty, 
Mrs. Micawhber's friends being of the opinion that his wisest course 
will be to quit London, he determines to go down to Plymouth, where 
he thinks something may “turn up” for him in the custom house. 
Before parting from David, he gives him a little friendly counsel. 


“My dear young fHlend," sald Mr. Mlcawber, “I am older than you; a man 
of somo experience {a life, and— and — of some expertonce, in short, in dificulties, 
generally speaking. At present, and until something turns up (which T um, may 
Jay, hourly expecting), T have nothing to bestow bat advice. Still my advice ia 
to far worth taking, that—in short, that f have never taken it myself, and am 
the”— here Mr. Micawber, who had been beaming and smiling all over his head 
‘and face. up to the present moment, checked himself, and frowned, —* tho mise 
erable wretch you behold.” 

* My dear Mioawber! urged his wife. 

“Fsay?"roturned Mr. Micawber, quite forgetting himself, and smiling agafn, — 
“the miserable wretch you behold. My advice 1s, never do to-morrow what you 
ean do to-day, Trocrastination Is the thief of time, Collar him!” 

“ My poor papa’s maxim," Mrs. Micawber observed. 

“My dear,” said Mr. Micawber, “your papa was very well In bla way, and 
Heaven forbid that I should disparage him! ‘Take him forall in all, we no'er 
mall —in short, make the nequatntanco, probably, of anybody else posseasing, at 
thus time of life, the dame legs for galters, and able to read the anme description 
of print without spectacles, But he applied that maxtn to our marriage, my dene, 
and that was so far prematurely entered into, in consequence, that I never 
peeovered the expense.” 

Mr. Micawber looked malde at Mre, Micawber, and added, “Not that T am 
scrry for it: quite the contrary, my love.” After which he was grave for « minute 
oro. 








“My other pleoe of advice, Copperfield,” sid Mr. Micawber, “you know, 
20% 


— 








ninoteon, nineteen, 
result happiness, "anmual Income twenty pounds}, annual expenditere {weay 
pounds nought and six,—result misery. The blossom 1a blighted, the leaf ts 
withered, the god of day goes down upon the dreary scene, and—and, In short, 
you are forever doored. As Iam!” 

‘To make his example the moro impressive, Mr. Micawber drank » gins of 
punch withan nir of grest enjoyment and satisfaction, and whistled the College 
Hornpipe. 

Some time after this, David—then a pupil of Dr. Strong’s, at 
Canterbury —unexpected!y meets Mr. Micawber, who has left Plym- 
outh (talent not being wanted in the custom house), and is invited to 
dine at his inn with him. 

Wo bad a beautiful tittle dinner,— quite an clegant dish of fish, the Hitser sot 
of w loin of veal roasted, fried sauvage-meat, a partridge, and o pudding. 

‘was wine, and there was wtrong ale; and after dinner Mev. pica ue 
bow! of hot panch with her own bands, 

Mr. Micawber was uncommonly convivial. I never saw him such good com- 
Dany: + 

As the punch disappeared, Mr. Micawber became still more frlendiy and eon- 
vivial. Mra. Mleawber’s spirits becoming elevated too, we sang “ Auld Lang 
Syne," When we came to “Hero ‘sm band, my trusty frere,” wo all joined 
hands round the table; and when we declared we would “take a right gude 
Wille Waught,” and had n't the least idea what it meant, wo were really 
alfeoted, 


In a word, I never saw anybody so thoroughly Jorial as Mr. Mlcawber was 
down to the very last moment of the evening, when I took # hearty farewell of 
himself and his amiable wifo, Consequently I was not prepared at seven o'clock 
next morning to receive the following communication, dated haif-past nine in the 
‘evening, —a quarter of an hoor after I bad left him: — 

“My Dean YouNG Farexp,— 

“The dio fs cast: all is over. Hiding the raragos of caro with a slckly mask of 
mirth, have not informed you, this evening; that there is no hope of the remit- 
tance. Under the circumstances, alike humiliating to endure, humiliating to eon- 
template, and humiliating to relate, I have discharged the pecuniary Mability 
contructed at this establishment, by giving a note of hand, made payable fourteen 
days after date at my residence, Pentonville, London. When it becomerdue, It 
‘will not be taken up, ‘The rovult is destruction, The bolt is Impending, and the 
tree must fall. 

“Let the wretched man who now addresses you, my dear Copperfield, bem 
beacon to you through life. He writes with that Intention and in that hope. If 
ho could think himself of so much use, one gloam of day might, by ovate, 
ponetrate into the cheerless dungeon of his remaining existence; though hie 
sOngevity fs, at present (to aay the least of It), oxtremely problematical, 

“This ls the last communieation, my dear Copperticld, you will ever receive 

“From 





“The 
© Boggared Qutcaat, 

“ WiLKiNe Micawnen® 

Twas #0. shocked by the contents of this heart-rending letter, that T ran of 

Mireetly towards the little hotel with the intention of taking it on my way to Dr 








Davly Copperttele. 307 


Btrong’s, and trying to soothe Mr. Micawber with a word of ¢omfort, But half 
‘way there I met the London coach with Mfr. and Mrs. Micawber up behind; Mr. 
Micawber, tho very picture of tranquil enjoyment, atnlling at Mrs. Micawber's 
‘conversation, eating walnuts out of # paper bag, with » bottle sticking out of his 
breast-pocket. As they did not see mo. F thought it best, all things considered, 
‘not tonee them. So, with great welght taken off my mind, T turned into a by- 
‘street that was tho nearest way to school, and felt, upon tho whole, relieved that 
they were gone; though I still liked them very much, nevertheless, 

‘Mr. Micawber next engages in the sale of corn upon commission; 
‘dat not finding it “an avocation of a remunorative description,” and 


getting again into “ temporary embarrassments of a pecuniary nature,” 
he accepts an offer from Uriah Heep to become his confidential clerk. 
But, before leaving London ior Canterbury (where Heep is estab- 
lished), he invites David to spend an evening at his house with their 
common friend Traddles, When the time has nearly come for them 
to take their leave, Mr. Micawber rises to acknowledge a toast pro- 
posed by Copperfield. He thanks his friends for their good wishes, 
and speaks as if he was going “five hundred thousand miles” away. 
He hopes to become an ornament to the profession of which he is 
“about to become an unworthy member,” and finally concludes as fol- 
lows: — 

“Under the temporary pressure of pecuniary abilities, contrncted with a view to 
thelr irumediate liquidation, but remaining unliquidated through acombination of 
elreamstances, I have been under the necessity of assuming « garb from which 
my natural lastinets recoil, — allude to spectacles, —and possessing myself of m 
‘eognomen to which I can establish no legitimate pretensions. All T have to say 
Ou tha score Is, that the cloud has passed from the dreary soene, and the god of 
day is ono» more high upon the mountain-tops, On Monday next, on the arrival 
of the four o'clock afternoon couch ut Canterbury, my foot will be on my native 
heath —my name, Micawber!” 

Mr. Micawber resumed his aeat on the close of theas remarks, and drank two 
glasses of punch in grave succession, He then eaid with much solemnity, — 

*<One thing more E have to do before this separation is complete; and that ito 
perform an uct of justices. My frlend Mr. Thomas Traddles has, on two several 
deeanlors, “put his name,’ if { may use a common expression, to bills of exchange 
OF ty accommodation. On the Grvt occasion, Mr. Thomas ‘Traddles was left —~ 
let me xay, in short, In the lurch. ‘The fulfilment of the second hns not yet arrived. 
The amount of the first obligation,” here Mr. Micawber carefully referred to pa: 
pers, “was, I believe, twenty-three, four, nine and a half; of the second, accord. 
Ing to my entry of that transaction, eighteen, sx, two. These sums, united, 
souke a total, if my calculation fs correct, amounting to forty-one, ten, eleven and 
half, My frlend Mr. Copperfield will perhaps do me the favor to chock that 
ole” 

Tdid s0, and found it correct. 

“To leave this metropolis.” sald Mr. Micawber “and my friend Mr. Thomas 
‘rndales, without soquitting myvelf of the pocunlary part of this obligation, would 
‘veigh upon my mind to an insupportable extent. I have therefure prepared for 
tay friend Mr, Thomas Traddles, and 1 now hold in my band, » document which 








at 





808 She Dickens Wletlonarp, 


‘accomplishes the desired object. I beg to hand to my friend Mr. Thomas Trad 
dies my I. 0, U, for forty-one, ten, eleven, and a half; and I am happy to recover 
‘my moral dignity, and to know that I can once more walk ereet before my fellow. 
man! 

With this {ntroduction (which greatly affected him), Mr. Micawber placed his 
1. 0. TJ. in the hands of Traddles, and said he wished him well iu every relation 
of life, Tam permaded, not only that this was quite the same to Mr, Micuwber 
‘81 paying tac money, but that Traddies himself hardly knew the differenos unti 
behad had Lime to think about tt. 


‘Mr. Micawber does not find his position in Heep's office as pleasant 
aa his sanguine temperament bas led him to anticipate. He soon dis 
covers his employer to be a consummate hypocrite and villain, who ix 
bent upon ruining his partner, Mr. Wickfield, and that he himself ir 
being made use of as a tool to aid in furthering the scheme. Th 
therefore 2ets himself to the task of unravelling the whole tiseae of 
rascality so cunningly woven by Heep; and, when this is done, he 
denounces and exposes him in a long and characteristic letter, which 
he reads to Copperficld, Traddles, and Miss Botsey Trotwood, who 
meet by appointment at Mr. Wickfield’s former office. 

‘Miss Trotwood, having been made acquainted with Mr. Micawber’s 
straitened circumstances, suggests that it might be well for him to try 
his fortunes in Australia, and offers to pay his debts, and the pasiage 
of himself and family to that country. Mr. Micawber fs delighted at 
the idea, and makes immediate preparations for emigrating, Ina fow 
days, he informs his kind patron that his “ boat is on the shore,” and 
“his bark is on the sea.’” 

“In reference to our domestio preparations, madam," sald Mr. Mlcawber with 
some pride, “for meeting the destiny to which we are now understood to be self 
devoted, I beg to report them, My oldest daughter attends at five every morning 
In a neighboring establishinent, to acquire the proves —if process It may be called 
—of milking cows. My younger children are Instructed to observe, as closely a 
efrcumstances will permit, the habit of the pigs and poultry maintained In the 
poorer parts of this clty,—s pursuit from which they hare, om two occasions, 
been brought home within an inch of being run over. I have myself directed 
tome attention, during the past week, to the art of baking; and my son Wilkins 
thas issued forth with a walkingstick, and driven cattle, when permitted, by the 
rugged hirelings who had them in charge, to render any voluntary eerrice fn that 
direction, which I regret to say, for the credit of our nature, was not often; he 
bolog generally warned, with Imprecations, to deslat.” 

Many years afterwards, David receives from Me. Peggotty (who 
went out in the same vessel with Mr. Micawber) a copy of an Aus- 
tralian paper containing an account of a public dinner given to “our 
listinguished townsman, Wilkins Micawber, Exquire,” and, in anothe, 
column, a letter addressed — 


David Coppecliely. 309 


“TO DAVID COPPERFIELD, ESQUIRE, 
“THE RMIXENT AUTHOR, 
"Mr pram Sim, 

“Years have elapsed since T had an opportunity of ocularly perusing the 
Uneaments, now Guniliar to the tmaginations of a considerable portion of the 
tivilized world. 

‘But my dear sir, though estranged (by the force of clreumatances over which 
T Lave had no control) from the personal soclety of the fiend and companion of 
my youth, { hare not beeu unmindful of his souring flight; nor have f been 
debarred, 





‘Thoogh seas botwoen us biald ha’ roared,’ 


(Benxs) from participating in the tntellectual feasts he has spread before us. 

“ F cannot, therefore, allow of the departaye from this place of an Individual 
‘whom we mutually respect and esteom, without, my dear sir, taking this publia 
opportunity of thanking you on my own behalf, and, I may undertake to add, on 
that of the whole of the lahabitants of Port Middlebay, for the gratification of 
which you are the ministering agent. 

“Go on, my dear sir You are not unknown here; you are not unappreciated. 
‘Though ‘remote,’ we are neither ‘unfrended,’ ‘melancholy,’ nor (I may add) 
‘slow!’ Go on, my denr alr, in your eagle course! ‘The Inhabitants of Port 
Middicbay may at least aspire to watch it with delight, with entertainment, with 
fnstruction! 

“Among the eyes elevated towards you from this portion of the globe will 
ever be found, while it has light and life, 





“The 
“Bye 
“Appertataing to 
WILKINS Mrcawnen, 
“ Magistrate.” 


T found, on glancing at the remalaing contents of the newspaper, that Mr, 
Micawber was a diligent and esteemed correspondent of that Journal. There 
was another Ietter from him in the same paper, touching » bridges there was 
an advertisement of a collection of similar letters by him, to be shortly repub- 
Ushed in a neat volume, * with considerable additions; and, unless I am very 
much mistaken, the leading article was his also. 

(Ch. xi, xii, xvii, xxvii, xxvili, xxxvi, xxix, xlii, xlix, li, liv, 
Wii, Leiti.) 

“31s. Mleawher Is as genulne an addition to the world's popniation as if we Knew 
‘hore to find his mark tn the parish register, and were acquainted with all the begine 
Sings of his earser,—how he fell in love with Mra Micawber, and how that Inds's 
fanily permitted a union which wax to give them ao much trouble, A1is gentoel aif, Ble 
fianknow on the sabject of his difficulties, hia delightful readiness to give his attention 
to any thing that may tara up, tho way in which hit tmpocuntosity servos titm as a 
Prafueaion, aro all set before ua with au unfailing spirit. Me. Micnwber nevor flagys 
Vere Is never a moment at which we can fool that the anthor has forgotten what went 
Leforevorlost the throad. , . . As we read, we, too, feel the exhilarating effect of @ meal 
procured by tho aale of a bedsteud; we,too. arw awareof that sensttion of having settled 
S serious point of basiness, which possomes Ar. Micawber when ho hus put his nawe bo 
bill. Wo scorn the worldiing who healts*es at that weeurity, We understand the roll 
Meus friend's Voice, his consek. ss oss that he has or'ne into his proyerty, and paid off 
At tho ebargos with a liberal hand when he writes hr awe fo “hat bit of paper, + 






















B10 Ede Dickens Bietlonary. 


‘Mr. Mlcawber's seuso of honor and generosity ts strong: though It Isnt. pereaps, #8 
‘effectual upon his character aa might be dexired. It in true that tho signature cf the 
Dill ls to him, as it were, a receipt in full, clearing hit of all further responsibility; bul 
stilt how charm ngly ready hte to eign it! how incapable of taking advantage of sng 
‘one's cenervalty without (hat presaation! . . . Perhaps none of us have ever encoun 
tored in the worst the fale-blown perfection of a Bir. Micawber; . .. but how many 
‘hints and suggestions of Mr. Micawber has the ordinary observer met! and how 
kindly, how geniaily, with what # friendly Insight, has the author combined thoes 
‘taggestions, and male them into one conslatent being.”"— Blackevod's Aagatine, vo 
ola, pp. 683, 64, 

Micawber, Mrs. Emma. Wife of Wilkins Micawber; a hie 
morously-exaggerated portrait of Mr. Dickens's mother. (Seo 
Forster's Life of Dickens, vol. i, ch. i, i 


Arrived nt his [Mr, Mloawber's) house in Windsor Terrace (which I noticed 
was shabby, like himself, but also, like himself, made all the show it could}, he 
me to Mrs, Micawber, a thin and faded lady, not at all young, who 
‘was sitting in the parlor (the first floor was altogether unfurnished, and the 
blinds were kept down to delads the nelgubors) with a baby at her breast. 
‘This baby was one of twins; and { may remark hero, that I hardly ever, fn all 
my experience of the family, enw both the twins detached from Mrs, Micawber 
at the ame time, Ono of them wns always taking refreshment. 


When her husband's resources are at the lowest ebb, she deter 
mines to come to his resoue if she can. 


Poor Mrs. Mleawber! Sho «ald sho bad tried to exerthervelf; and #0 T have 
no doubt she had, The centre of the street-door was perfectly covered with a 
great brass plate, oa which was engraved, * Mrs. Micawber’s Boarding Eatab- 
Ushment for Young Ladies: ” but I never found that any young Indy had ever 
been to school there; or that sny young lady erer camo, oF proposed to come; OF 
that the least preparation was ever made to receive auy young lady. 


Tn the ease of her temper and the elasticity of her spirita, Mra, 
Micawber is scarcely surpassed by her husband. 


I have known her to be thrown into falating-fits by the King's taxes at thron 
Yelock, and to eat amb-chops breaded, and to drink warm ale (paid for with 
«wo teaspoons that had gone to the pawnbroker's), at four, On one occasion, 
‘when an execution had just been put in, coming home, through some ehance, at 
‘early as #lx o'clock, Tsaw her lying (of course with a twin) under the grate In 
gs swoon, with her halr all torn about her face; but I never knew her more 
cheerful than she was that rery samo night, overa veal-outlet before the kitebeme 
fire, telllng me stories about her papa and mamma, and the eompany they used 
to keep, 

Among the striking and praiseworthy characteristics of this re 
markable lady, her devoted attachment to her husband is deserving 
of special mention. On one occasion, shu tells David Copper+ 
field, — 

i never will desert Mr. Micawber! Mr. Micawber may hare concealed hie 
ieulties from me in the Gist instance; but his sanguine temper may have lea 
him to expect that he would overcome them. ‘The pearl necklace and bracelets 

















Dadi 





ppectlely Sil 


‘which I inberited from mamma have been disposed of for less than balt thelr 
alae; and the set of coral which was the wedding-gift of my papa has been 
actually thrown away for nothing. Bat T never will desert Mr. Micawber. 
No!" cried Mra. Micawber, more affected than before, “{ never will do it! It" 
of no ase asking me.” 

Tielt quite uncomfortable, —ae if Mrs. Micawber supposed had asked her to 
do any thing of the sort, —and sat looking at her In alarm. 

“Mr, Micawber hax his faults, Ido not deny that he is improvident. 1 do 
not deay that he has kept mo tn ths dark ns to his resources and his Linbilitice 
both?" she went on, looking at the wall; “but I nover will desert Mr. Mi- 
eawber! 

Mrs, Micswher having now raised her-yoloe into m perfect scream, I was 10 
frightened, that I ran off to the club-room, and disturbed Mr. Micawber, in the 
act cf presiding at a long table, and leading the chorus of 

Geo up, Dobbin, 

Gee ho, Dobbin, 

Geo up, Dobbin, 

Gee up, and Gee ho—o—o! 
with the tidings that Mrs. Micawber was in an alarming state; upon which be 
{mmediately barat into tears, and came away with me with his walatooat full of 
‘the heads and tails of shrimps of which he had been partaking. 

“Emma, my angel!" ried Mr. Micawber, running tuto the room, "what is 
‘the matter?” 

“T never will desert you, Mioswber!" she exclaimed, 

My life! said Mr. Micawber, taking her in his arms. “I am perfectly 
of #1" 
% He is the parent of my children! He Is the futher of mytwins! Hots the 
band of my affections!” eried Mrs. Micawber, struggling; “and I ne—ver— 
‘will—devert Mr. Mieawber!”” 

Mr. Mioaweber was #0 deeply affected by this proof of her derotion (as te 
me, I was dissolved in tears), that he hung over her in a passionate manner, 
imploring ber tolook up andtobe calm. But, themore he asked Mra. Micawber 
to look up, the more she fixed her eyes on nothing; and, the more he asked her 
to compose herself, the more she would n’t. Consequently Mr. Micawber was 
soon 40 overcome, that he mingled his tears with hers and mine, until he 
begged me to do him the faror of taking #chalron the staircase while he got 
her into bed. 

(Ch. xi, xii, xvii, xxvii, xxviii, xxxvi, xlii, xlix, lii, liv, lvil, Lili.) 

“Mex Mienwber!s almost as good berhasband, ‘The intrepid courage with whic sie 
‘keeps ap that tinaginary struggle with her family, scoring every tomptation to leave 
‘Mr. Micawhber ; her cecasional despair, and beautifal power of overcoming tase wae 
‘and & mother, and making herscifas comfortable as clroumstances permit; hor miley 
‘that Mr. Micawber should have occupation worthy of his talents, and be sp] 
et Tasty hor nerer-failing gentility, and sense of what ts due to ber position, —are @it 
opt cp with the ame perfect spirit and reality." —Blachwood's Magueine, vol, ebx, 
D685, 38 


Mills, Miss Julia. ‘The bosom-friend of Dora Spenlow. (Ch. 
xxxiii, xxxvii xxviii, xli, Leiv.) 


‘Tiearned . . . mat Mise Milis had had ber trlals in the course of a checkered 
‘existence, und that to these, perbaps, 1 might refer that wise benigulty of 
saanuer which I had already noticed. I found, in the course of the day, that 

















& 








Se, 


\ 


& 
>) 


312 ¢ Dickens Dietlonacp. 


‘this was the case; Miss Mills baring been unbappy tn a misplaced affection, and 
Delng understood to bare retired from tho world on her awful stock of ex 
perience, but still to take a calm interest fn the unblighted hopes and loves of 
youth. 

For the more exact dishange of tao duties of friendship, Miss 
‘Mills keeps a journal, of which the following is a sample :— 

“ Moxpay.—My sweet D. still sich depressed. Headache, Called atten. 
Hon to J. os being beautifully sleek, 1D. fondiedJ. Associations thus awakened 
‘opened floodgates of sorrow. Rush of grief admitted. (Are tears the dew: 
drops of the heart ?—J. 3)” 

Mills, Mr. Her father; a terrible fellow to fall asleep after din- 
ner, (Ch, xxxiii, xxxvii, xxviii, xli.) 

Mowcher, Miss. A dealer in cosmetics, a fashionable hairdresser, 
&c., who makes herself useful to a variety of people in a variety of 
ways, She is very talkative, and plumes herself on being “volatile,” 
but is thoroughly kind-hearted and honest. (Ch. xxii, xxxii, Ixi.) 


I was still looking at the doorway, thinking that Miss Moweher was a 
Jong while making her appearance, when, to my Infinite astonishment, there 
came waddling round a sofa which stood between me and it a pursy dwarf of 
about forty or forty-five, with a very large head and face, w palr of rogulsts gray 
eyes, und such extremely little arms, that, tocnable herself to lay a finger archly 
against her nub nos he ogled Steerforth, ahe was obliged to meet the fla- 
rer half-way, and lay ber nose against (t. Ler chin, which was what is called 
adovble chin, wns so fat, that it entirely swallowed up thentrings of her bounet, 
—bow nnd all. Throat she had none; walst she had none; legs she had none, 
worth mentioning; for though she was more than full «lzed down to where her 
waist would hare been (if she had hadany).and though she terminated, as 
human beings generally do, in a palr of fect, she wax so short, that ahe stood at 
common sized chair as at a table, resting a bag she carried on the seat, ‘This 
lady,—dressed in an off-hand, easy atylo; bringing her nove and her forefinger 
together with the difficulty E have described; standing with her head ne- 
cossarily on one side, and, with one of her sharp eyes shut up, making an un 
commonly knowing face, —after ogling Steerforth fora fow moments, broke into 
a torrent of words. 

Murdstone, Mr. Edward. Step-father of David Copperfield. 
(Ch. ii-iv, vili-x, xiv, xxxiil, lix.) “See Correnrretp, Davin. 

Firmness, I may observe, was the grand quality on which both Mr. and 3fiae 
‘Murdstone took thelr stand. However I might have expressed my comprehen 
sion of it at that time, if I had beon called upon, I nevertheless did clearly 
‘comprehend, in my own way, that it was another name for tyranny, and for ® 
certaln gloomy, arrogant, devit's humor, that was in them both. ‘The ereed, 
ms I should state it now, was this: Mr, Murdstone was firm; nobody in his 
‘world was to be so firm as Mr. Murdstone; nobody else in his world was to be 
firm at all, for everybody was to be bent to hie firmness, Miss Murdstone war 
an exception, She might be firm, but only by relationship, and in nn inferior 
and tributary degree. My mother was another exception, She might beLirm 
sud must be, but only in bearing their firmuces, and firmly believing there 
was no other firmaess upon earth, 





BIMAVE OXY ALLODoKd 











Davld Coppertletan 413, 


‘The gloomy taint that was Inthe Murdstone blood darkened the Murdstone 
religion, which was austere and wrathful. I have thought, since. that its as- 
suming that character was necessary consequence of Mr. Murdatone's firtn- 
‘ness, which would n’t allow him to let anybody off from the utmost weight of 
‘the severest penalties he could find any excuse for. 

After the death of David's mother, Mr. Murdstone marries, for 
his second wife, a lively young woman, but soon breaks hur spirit 
by his gloom and austerity, and at last reduces her to a state bor 
dering on imbecility. 

Murdstone, Mise Jane. Sister to Edward Murdstone; a gloomy- 
looking, severe, metallic lady, dark, like her brother, whom she 
greatly resembles in face and voice; and with very heavy eye- 
brows, nearly meeting over her large nose, as if, being disabled by 
the wronge of ber sex from wearing whiskers, she had earried them 
to that account. She is constantly haunted by a suspicion that tho 
servants have a man secreted somewhere on the premises; and, 
under the influence of this delusion, she dives into the coal-vellar at 
the most untimely hours, and scarcely ever opens the door of a dark 
cupboard, without clapping it to again, in the belief that she has 
got him. (Ch. iv, vili-x, xii, xiv, xxvi, xxxiii, xxvii, lix.) See 
Correnrietp (Mrs, Cuara), Corernrigtp (Davin), Murp- 
stows (Mn. Epwanp). 

Nettingall, The Misses. Principals of a boarding-shool for 
young ladies. (Ch. xviii.) 

Old Soldier, The. See Manxienam, Mana, 

Omer, Minnie. Daughter of Mr. Omer; a pretty, good-natured 
girl, engaged to Mr. Joram. (Ch, ix, xxi, xxx, xxxil, Ii.) 

Omer, Mr. A draper, tailor, haberdasher, undertaker, &c., at Yar 
mouth; a fat, short-winded, morry-looking little old man in black, 
with rusty little bunches of ribbons at the knees of his breeches, 
black stockings, and a broad-brimmed hat. (Cu. ix, xxi, xxx, 
xxii, li.) 

Paragon, Mary Anne, A servant who keeps house for David 
Copperfield and Dora. (Ch. xliv.) 

Passnidge, Mr. A friend of Mr. Murdstone’s. (Ch. ii.) 

Peggotty, Clara. Servant to Mrs. Copperfield. and nurse and 
friend to her son David; a girl with no shape at all, and eyes so 
dark, that they scem to darken their whole neighborhood in her fhee, 
and with checks and arms so hard and red, that the birds might 
peck them in preference to apples. Being very plump, whenever 
she maxes any little exertion after she is dressed, some of the but- 

a 


————i 





S14 Ede Dickens Mictlonary. 


tons on the back of her gown fly off. After the death of her min 
tress, Pegyotty marries Mr. Barkis, a carrier, who bas long admirea 
her; but she never forgets her old love for David, whose house- 
keeper she finally becomes, (Ch. i-v, viii-x, xii, xili, xvii, 
xix-xxili, xxvil, xxx—xxxy, xxxvil, xliil, Hi, Iv, Lvii, lix, Lxi, Ixiv.) 

Peggotty, Mr. Daniel. A rough but kind-hearted and noble 
souled fisherman; brother to Clara Peggotty. 


Thad known Mr. Peggotty"s house very well In my childhood; and Tam «ure 
Toould not hare bees morv charmed with it Af It had been Aladdin’s patnce 
roc's egg; and all. Itwas nn old black barge, orbont, high aud dry on Yarmoute 
sands, with an fron funnel sticking oat of it for a chimney. There was adelight- 
ful door cut in the side, and it wax roofed fa, and thore were little windows ia 
it. It was bewutifully clean, and ss tidy ax possibie, ‘There were xome lockers 
and boxes, and there was a table, and there was a Dutch clock, and there was a 
chont of drawers, and there was a tea-tray with a painting on it; and the tray 
‘was Kept from tumbling down by # Isible; and the tray, if it had tumbled down, 
would have smashed « quantity of cups and saucers and m teapot that were 
grouped around the book. On the walla were colored pictures of Abraham, iu 
red golng to ancrifice Isnno in blue, and of Daniel in yellow being cast Into aden 
of green lions. Over the little mantebahelf was a plature of the * Sarah Jane,” 
lugger, bullt wt Sunderland, with areal little wooden stern stuck on it,—a work 
‘of art combining composition with carpentry, which I had regarded in my ebltd- 
hood as one of the most enviable possessions the world could afford. 

‘gotty, ax honest n srafaring man ax ever breathed, dealt in lobsters, crabs, 
crawiish; and a heap of those creatures, in a state of wonderful conglomeration 
‘with one another, and never leaving off pinching whatever they Inid hold w% 
were usually to be found in a little wooden outhouse, whore the pote and kettles 
rere kept. ~s 


Mr. Peggotty’s nepliew Ham and his adopted niece Emily, a beau- 
tiiul young woman, — both members of his household, — are engaged 
to be married; but, before the wedding-day arrives, Emily elopes 
with Steerforth, a brilliant, handsome, plausible fellow, who has suc- 
ceeded in winning her affections, and seducing her. She leaves a 
letter for Ham, which he gives to David Copperfield to read aloud. 


Tremembera great wall and cry, and the women hanging about him, aud we 
all standing in the room,—I with am open letter in my hand, which Ham had 
given mo; Mr. Peggotty with his vest torn open, his hair wild, his fov aad Lipa 
white, and blood trickling down his bosom (it had sprung from his mouth, 1 
think). 

“Read It, slr; slow, please. I docn’t know as I can understand.” 

In the midst of the silence of death I read thu from the blotted letter Ham 
had given me, In Em'ly’s hand, addressed to himself: — 

“> When you, who love me #0 much better than I ever have deserved, ever 
when my taind was innocont, see this, Iehall be faraway. When I leave my dea 
home—my dear home —oh, my dear home !—in the morning?” (the letter bore 
dato on the previous night), ‘* {t will bo never to come back, unless be brings me 
back a lady. This will \® found at night, many hours after, Instead of me. For 














Daviv Coppecliely 316 


mcrey’s sake tell uncle that Inerer loved him half 20 dear as now. Ob! don't 
remember you and I-were ever to be married, but try to think ws if I dlted when I 
‘was very little, and was buried somewhere. Fray Heaven that I am going away 
from, have compassion on my uncle! Be bis comfort. Love some good girt, that 
will bo what I was oneo to uncle, nnd that witl be true to you, and worthy of you, 
sod know no shame but me. God bless all! If he don’t bring me back a lady 
‘and I don't pray for my own self, Il pray for all. My parting love to unclot My 
last tears, aud my last thanks, for uncle!” ‘That was all. 

‘Me stood, long after I had ceased fo read, still looking at me. Slowly, at last, be 
‘Moved his eyes from my fuce, and cast them round the room. 

“Who ' the man? Twant to know his name.” Ham glanced at me, and and- 
Genly I felt w shock, "Mas Davy, go out @ bit, aud let me tell him whet £ 
must. You doewt ought to hear it, air.” 

Trane down in achalr, and tried to utter some reply: but my tongue was fot- 
tered, und my sight was weak; for I felt that the man was my friend, the friend 
‘Ahad unhappily introduced there, —Stesrforth, my old schoolfellow and my friend. 

 T want to know his namo!” 

“Mave Davy," exclaimed Ham Ins broken voice, "it ata't no foult of yourns 
and Iam far from laying of {t to you: but it is your friend Steerforth, and 
‘he % a damned villain!" 

Mr. Peggotty mored no more, until he seomed to wake ail at once, and pulled 
down his rough coat from its peg in a corner. 

“Beara hand with this! Ivmatruck of a heap, aod can’t do it, Beara baad 
‘snd help me, Well! Now give me that theer bat!” 

‘Ham asked him whither he was going. 

Tm agolng to eck my niecs, I'm a-golng to seck my Emily. I'm e-golng, 
first, to stave in that theer boat as he gave me, and sink it where I would have 
drownded him, as I’m a livin’ soul, if Chad had one thought of what was tn him! 
As ho sat afore me in that boat, fice to fnce, atrike me down dead, but I'd have 
drownded him, and thought it right! I'm a-going fur to seek my niece’? 

“Where? ® 

“Anywhere! I?m agoing to seek my nlece through the wureld. I?m a-golng 
to find my poor niece tn her shame, and bring her back wi" my comfort and for- 
giveness. No one stop me! f tell you I'm mgolng to seck my niece! I’m 
s-polug to seek ber fur and wide!” 

Months pass; and Mr. Peggotty has been absent—no one knows 
where—the whole time, when suddenly David encounters him in 
~ondon, and learns the story of his wanderings. 

+ You sce, alr, when she was & child. she used to talk to me adeal about the 
‘fea, and about them coasts where the sea got to be dark bine, and to lay a-shine 
fog and a-shining in the sun, When sho was Jost, f know'd in my mind as be 
‘would take her to them countries. 1 know’ in my mind as he'd have told her 
‘wonders of em; and how she was to bea lady theer; and haw he first got her to 
‘Matun to bim along 0” sech like. I went across channel to France, and landed theer 
Asif I'd fell down from the skies. I found outa English gentleman as was in 
authority, and told film I was going to reek my niece. He got me them papers ax 
+ wanted fur to carry me through, I don’t rightly know how they 're called, — 
and he would have gire me money; but that I was thankful to have noneed on. 
Tthank him kind forall he dont I'm eure, I told him, bestas I wae able, what 
my gratitoode was, and went away through France fur to seek my nieoe.” 

Alone, and on foot?” 











316 Ebe Diek 





Dictlonary. 


“Mostly afoot; somotimes fn carts along with people golng to market; some 
‘imes in empty couches, Many mile & day afoot, and often with some peor sole 
dicr ar another, tenvelling fur to see his friends. 1 could n't talk to him, nor ha 
to me; but we was company for one another, too, along the dusty roads. When f 
ome toany town, I found the ian, and waited about the yard till seme one came 
by (some one mostly did) os know'd English. ‘Then I told how that t was on my 
way to seek my nice; and they told me what manner of gentlefvlks was in the 
house, and I waited to seo aty as veemed like her, going In or out. When if 
warn’t Emly, T went on agen, Iy little and tittle, when f como to a new rillege 
‘oF that, among the poor people, I found they know'd about me, They would wet 
me down at their cottage-doors, and give me what-not fur to eat and drink, and 
show mo where to aleep. And many a woman, Mav'r Davy, ma hina had a daoghe 
ter about Em’ly's age, I "ve found ayuiting for me, at our Bavlour’s cross, outside 
the village, fur to do me sim’lar Kindnesses. Some has had daughters as was 
dead ; and God only knows how good them mothers was to me!" 

laid my trembling hand upon the hand be put before his face.“ Thank'eo, 
air! doen’t take no notice.” 

“At last Icome to the sea. Tt warn’t hand, you may suppose, for a seafaring 
man Ike mo to work hie way overto Italy. When I got theer, I wandered on as 
Thad done afore. I got news of her being seen among them Swiss mountains, 
yonder. I made for them mountains, day and night. Ever so fur as west, over 
‘0 fur them mountains seemed to shift away from me, Mut I come up with ’em, 
and crossed ‘em. Inever doubted her! Not not a bit! On'y let her see my 
‘noe; on'y lot her heer my volee; on'y let ray stanning stl afore her bring to her 
thoughts the home ehe had tled away from, and the child she had been, —and, 
Af she had growed to be a royal Indy, she Md have fell down at my fect! Iknow'd 
Atwell! I bought a country dress to put upon her. To put that dress upon her, 
and tocast off what she wore ; to take her on my arm again, and wander towards 
homo; tostop sometimes upon the road, and heal her bruised fect, and her worse 
bruised heart, —wasall Ithowt of now. But, Mar Davy, it warn’tto be,—not 
yet! Iwas too Inte, and they was gone, Wheer, Icould n't learn, Some sald 
hoor; some said theer. X travelled heer, and 1 travelled theer; but X found no 
Em'ly, and I travelled home.” . 











At last, however, Mr. Peggotty finds his niece, and emigrates 
with her to Australia, “No one can't reproach my darling in Aus- 
tralia,” he says, “ We will begin a new life over thee (Ch. fi, 
Ail, vil, x, xxi, xxii, xxx-xxxii, xl, xliii, xlvi, xvii, |, Hi, Ivii, Leill.) 

Peggotty, Ham. Nephewof Daniel Peggotty. He is engaged to 
little Emily; but, on the eve of their marriage, she elopes with 
Steerforth. Years afterwards, he attempts, one night, to rescue some 
unfortunate passengers from & vessel wrecked in a great storm on 
Yarmouth beach. One of these passengers proves to be Stoerforth, 
who is returning home from abroad. A mighty wave ingalfs them 
all; and the wronged and wrong-docr perish together on the very 
svene which had witnessed the triumph of the one and the blighted 
hopes of the other. (Ch. i, vii, x, xxi, xxii, xxx~xxxii, xl, xlvi 
li, lv.) See Peacorry (Daniev), Sreerrorra (JAMES). 























Badly Koppert! 





3 


Quinion, Mr. A fiiond of Mr. Murdstone's, and chief 
at Murdstone and Grinby’s warehouse, in London. Mr. Murdstone 
calls on Mr. Quinion and Mr. Passnidge, at Lowestoft, in company 
with little David Copperfield, to whose mother he is on the point 
of being married, 

‘They both rolled on to thet fect {n an untidy sort of manner when we came 
th, und sald, “ Halloo, Murdstone! we thought you were dead." 

* Not yor," sald Mr. Murdstone, 

“ And who’s this shaver?” said one of the gentlemen, taking hold of me. 

“That "* Davy,” returned Mr. Murdstone. 

“Dary who?" aald the gentleman, “Jones?” 

Copperfield,” suid Mr. Mardstone, 

“What! Bewltching Mrs. Copperfield’s tneumbrance?” cried the gentle 
man. +‘ fhe pretty little widow?” 

* Quinton,” «ald Mr, Murdstone, “take care if you please, Somebody's 


“Who [s?” asked the gentleman, laughing. 

Tiooked up quickly, being curious to know. 

“Only Brooks of Sheifield,” sald Mr. Murdstone, 

Twas quite relieved to find {twas only Brooks of Sheffield; for at first I 
Peallythonght It was I. 

‘There seemed to be something rery comical in the repatation of Bfr. Brooks 
of Sheffield; for both the gentlemen laughed heartily when he was mentioned, 
and Mr. Mardstone was a good den} amneed also. After some inaghing, the gon- 
tleman whom he had ealled Quinion said,— 

“ And what is the opinion of Brooks of Sheffield Ia reference to the projected 
business?” 

“Why, Idoo't know that Brooks understands much about {t st present,” 
replied Mr. Murdstone; but he is not generally favorable, I believe." 

‘There was more langhter at this; and Mr. Quinton sald he would ring the bell 
for some sherry in which to drink to Brooks. ‘This he did; wnd, when the wine 
‘eumo, he made me have a lttle with a biseult, and, before I drank it, stand up 
and ray, '*Confuslon to Brooks of Sheffield!" ‘The toast wax received with 
great applause, and such hearty laughter that it made me laugh too; at which 
‘they langhed the more. In short, we quite enjoyed ourselves. 


(Ch. ii, xxii.) 

Sharp, Mr. First master at Salem House, Mr. Creakle’s school, 
near London; a limp, delicate-locking gentleman, with a good deal 
of nose, and a way of carrying his head on one side, as if it were 
a little too heavy for him. (Ch. vi, vii, ix.) 

Bhepherd, Miss. A boarder at the Misses Nottingall’s Establish 
ment for Young Ladies, with whom David Copperfield is for « time 
deeply in love. She is a litle girl in a spencer, with a round face, 
and curly flaxen hair ) 

Bpenlow, Miss Clarissa. The elder of two maiden sisters of 
Mr, Spenlow, with whom his daughter Dora resides after his death. 

a 




















318 Ede Vickers Bictionary. 


‘They are both dry little Indies, upright in their carriage, formal, 
precise, composed, and quiet. (Ch, xxxviii, xxix, xli-xliii, liii.) 
Bpenlow, Miss Lavinia. Aunt to Dora, and sister to Miss Cla- 
¥issa and Mr. Francis Spenlow. (Ch. xxxvili, xxxix, xli-xilil, liii.) 

‘Miss Lavinia was an authority in affairs of the heart, by reason of there: 
having anclently existed a certain Mr. Pidger, who played xhort whlat, and was 
‘supposed to have been enamoured of her. My private opinion Is, that this wae 
entirely a gratuitous assumption, and that Pidger was altogether Innocent of 
any such sentiments, to which he had nerer given any sort of expression, that 
Toould ever hear of, Moth Miss Lavinia and Miss Clariess had a superetition, 
however, that he would have deciared his passion, if he had not been eut short 
In his youth (at about sixty) by over-drinking hls constitution, and overdoing 
an attempt to sot It right again by swilling Bath water, They had a lurking 
suspicion even, that he died of secret love; though I must say there was a 
plctare of im fa the house, with adamask nose which concealment did not 
appear to have erer preyed upon, 

Spenlow, Miss Dora, Only daughter of Mr. Spenlow; atter~ 
wards the “ child-wife” of David Copperfield ; timid, trustful, sen- 
sitive. artless little beanty, who is not much more than a plaything, 
and who dies young. (Ch, xxvi, xxxill, xxxv, xxvii, xxxwii, xli- 
xliv, xIvili, iii.) See Correnrrenp, Davin; also p. 544. 

Spenlow, Mr. Francis. One of the firm of Spenlow and Jorkina 
(proctors in Doctor’s Commons), and the father of Dora, who is 
afterwards David Copperficld’s wife. (Ch. xxii, xvi, xxix, xxiii, 
xxx, xxxviii.) See Jonxixs, Me. 

He was a little light-hatred gentleman, with nndeninble boots, and the stiffest 
of white cravats nd ahirt-collars. He wax buttoned up mighty trim and tight, 
tnd must have taken x great deal of pains with hia whiskers, which were acca- 
rately curled. .. . Ho was got up with soch oare, and was so sti, that ho could 
hardly bend Limself; being obliged, when he glanced at some pupers om his 
desk, ufter altting down In his chair, to move his whole body from the bottom 
‘of his spine, like Punch, 

Spiker, Mr. Henry. A guest at a party given by Mr. and Mrs. 
Waterbrook. He is solicitor to somobody or something remotely 
connected with the treasury, and is so cold a man, that his head, * 
instead of being gray, seems to be sprinkled with hoarfrost. (Ch. 
xxv.) 

Spiker, Mrs, Henry, His wife; « very awful lady, looking like 
a near relation of Hamlet's, —say his aunt. (Ch. xxv.) 

Steerforth, James, A shoolfellow and friend of David Coppers 
fiel’s; a young man of great personal attractions and the most 
easy and engaging manners. Always adapting himself readily to 
the society he happens to be in, he has no trouble in securing the 











Coppertlely. 319 


‘gard and confidence of simple-hearted Mr. Peggotty, whose 
bamble house he visits with David. Here ho meets Mr. Peggotty’s 
niece and adopted daughter, Emily,—a beautiful young woman, be- 
‘trothed to her cousin Ham, — and deliberately sets to work to effect 
ber rnin. In this he is successful; and, on the eve of her intended 
marriage, she consents to elope with him. They live abroad for 
tome time; but he finally tires of her, and, after insultingly propos 
fing that she should marry his valet, a detestable scoundrel, cruelly 
deserts her. Not long after, he sets sail for England. 


{Throngh} a murky confusion of flying clouds tossed up into most remarkable 
heaps, the wild moon seemed to plunge headiong, as if, in a dread disturbance of 
the laws of nature, rhe had lost her way. ‘There had been w wind all day; and It 
‘was rising then, with an extrnordinary great sound. Tu another hour, it had much 
Mnereased, and the sky was more overcast, and it blew hard. 

But, wr the nlgbt advanced, It came on to Blow harder and harder, Many times, 
fn the dark part of the night (it was then Inte in September), we were in serious 
‘Aapprebension that the coach would be blown over; and, when the day broke, the 
wind blow harder, and still harder. T had been In Yarmouth when the seamen 
sald It blew great guns; but { had never known the like of this, or auy thing 
uppronehing to it. 

‘As wo struggled on, nearer and nearer to the sea, from which this mighty wind 
was blowing dead on shore, its force became more and more terrific. When xe 
came within sight of the sea, the waves on the horizon, seen, at intervals, abore 
tho rolling abyss, were like glimpses of another shore with towers and buildings. 
‘When at last we got {nto the town, the people came out to thelr doors, making 
wonder of the mail that had come through such # storm, 

‘The tremendous sea itself, when I could find pause to look at ft, in the agitation 
of the bifading wind, the flying stones and sand, and the awful nolse, confounded 
me. As the high watery walls camo rolling {n, and tumbled Into surf, T seemed to 
seo a rending and uphesring of all nature, . . . 

‘When T had washed and dressed, and tried to sleep (but in vain), It was late in 
Lhoafternoon. I had notaat five minutes by the coffee-room fire, when the walter, 
coming to stir It, told mo that two coltfers had gone down, with all hands, m fow 
ulles off; and that some other ships had been seen laboring hard in the Roads, 
‘and Erying, 1a great distros, to keop off shore. Merey on them, aud on all poor 
sailors,” sald he, + if we had wnother night ike the Inst!" 

Teould not eat; I could not sit still; F could not continue stendfust to any thing. 
My dinner went away almoat untasted, and I tried to refresh myself with glass 
‘or two of wit ain, I walked to and fro; tried to read an old gazetteer 
listened to the awful nolees; looked at faces, scenes, and figures in the fire. At 
length the ticking of the undisturbed clock on the wall tormented me to that 
‘degree, that I resolved to go to bed. ... 

Twas aroused at elght or ulne o'clock by some one knocking and calling #¢ my 








© What is the matter?” 

“A wreck! close by 1” 

«What wreck?” 

“A schooner from Spain or Portugal, Inden with frult and wine. Mabe haste, 
air, if you want to eee her! It’ thought down on the beach she ‘ll go to places 
‘every woment.” 








820 Eb: Mickens Mictfonarp. 


‘T wrap ed myself in my clothes as quickly as T could, and ran into the street, 
where nun bers of people were before me; all running tn one direction, —to the 
beach. Irxu the same way, outstripping a good many, sud soon came facing the 
wild sea, Every appearance It had before presented bore the expression of being 
‘oclled: and she height to which the breakers rose, and bore one another down, 
and rolled {x ta Interminable hoste, was most appalling. 

In the di Moulty of hearing any thing but wind and wares, and in the crowd, 
and the unspeakable confusion, and my first breathless efforts to stand against 
the weather, I was "0 confised, that I looked out to sea for the wreck, anil saw 
‘othing but the foaming hends of the great waves, 

A boatman laid a hand upon my arm, and pointed. ‘Then T saw {t,— lose ia 
upon us. 

‘One mast was broken short off, #ix or elght feet from the deck, and lay orer the 
sido, entangled nn maze of sail and rigging; and all that ruin, as the ship rolled 
‘and beat,— which she did with a violence quite ivable,—beat the alde as 
Af It would staye it in, Some efforts were being to cut this portion of the 
wreck away; for as the ship, which was broadside on, turned towards us in her 
rolling, 1 plainly descrted hor people at work with axes,— especially owe active 
figure with long curling hair. But a great ery, audible even abore the wind and 
‘water, rose from the shore: the sea, swoeplng orerthe wreck, made a clean breach, 
‘nod carried mon, spare, casks, planks, bulwarks, heaps of euch toys, into the boll. 
Ing surge. 

‘Tho aecond mast was yet atanding, with the rage of a rall, and w wild confusion 
of broken cordage, flapping to and fro. * "The ship had struck once," the same boat- 
man ald, “and then lifted In, and struck again.” Cunderstood lin to add that whe 
‘was parting minidships. As ho spoke, there was another great ery of pity from 
the beach, Four men arose with the wreck out of the deep, clinging to the rig- 
ging of the rematning mast; uppermost, the active figure with the curling halr. 

‘There was a bell on board; aud, as the sblp rolled and dashed, thix bell rang; 
and its sound, the knell of those unhappy men, was borne towards us on the 
wind. Again we lost her. and again she rose, ‘Two of the four men were gone. 

Tnoticed that some new sensation moved the people on the beach; and I raw 
\hem part, and Ham come brenking through them to the front, 

Instantly Fran to him; for I divined that he meant to wade off with a rope. T 
‘eld him back with both arms, and implored the men not to listen to him, not to 
et him stir from off that xand, 

Another ery arose, and we raw the cruel sail, with blow on blow, beat off the 
lower of the two men, and fly up in telumph round the active Agure lef alone spon. 
the mast, Against such a sight, end against such determination ax that of the 
calmly desperate man, who was already accustomed to lead half the people pres 
ent, I might as hopefully have entreated the wind. 

was ewept away to some distance, where the people around me made me 
stay; urging, as I confusedly perceived, that he was bent on going, with help or 
without, and that I should endanger the precautions for his safety by Coubling 
thove with whom they rested. I saw hurry on the beach, and men running 
with ropes, and penetrating into a clrele of figures that hid him from me, ‘Then I 
saw him standing alone, in a eeaman's frock and trousers, a rope in his hand, 
another round his body, and several of the best men holding to the latter. 

‘The wreck was breaking up. I saw that she was parting in the middle, and that 
the life of the solitary man upon the mast hung by 4. thread. Ie tind « singular 
red cap on, not like a sailor's cap, but of a finer color; and as the fow planks 
between him and destruction rolled and bulged, and as his death-knell rung, be 




















Maovlv Coppertlels, 321 


‘was sven by all of us to wave thisosp, Isaw him do ft now, and thought I was 
‘polng distracted, when his action brooght an old remembranceto my mind of a 
‘once dear friend, — the once dear friend, —Stewrforth, 

Ham watched the sea until there wns a grest retiring ware; when he dashed 
to after {t, and in a moment was baffeting with the water, rising with the hils, 
fullixig with the valleya, lost beneath the foam, borne In towards the shore, borne 
‘on towards the ship. 

Atlength he neared the wreck. He was 60 near, that, with one more of his 
‘vigorous strokes, he would be clinging to it, when a high, green, vast hillaide of 
‘water moving on #horeward from beyond the ship, he seemed to lexp up into it 
‘with mighty bound, 1nd the ship was gone! 

They drew hin to my very feet,—Insensible, dead. He was carried to the 
‘Dearest hours, and every means of restoration was tried; but he had been beaten 
to denth by the great wave, snd his generous heart wns stilled forever. 

As Laat beside the bed, when hope was abandoned, and all was done, a fisher- 
man who had known me when Emily and I were children, and ever since, whis- 
pered my name at the door, 

“Sir, will you come over yonder?” 

‘Tho old remembrance that had been recalled to me was fn his look; and I 
asked him, “Its a body come ashore? 

“Yea 

“Do T know it?” 

He answered nothing; but he led me to the shore, And on that part of it 
where she and I had looked for shells, two children, — ow that part of it where 
some highter fragments of the old boat, blowa down last night, had been sost- 
tered by the wind; among the rains of the home he had wronged, —I saw 
him lying with his head upon his arm, as f had often seen him lie at school. 

(Ch. vi, vii, ix, xix-xxv, xxviii, xxix, xxxi, lv.) 

Steerforth, Mrs, Mother of James Steerforth; an elderly lady, 
with a proud carriage and a handsome fice, entirely devoted to 
her son, but estranged from him at last; both of them being im- 
perious and obstinate. (Ch. xx, xxi, xxiv, xxix, xxxil, xxxvi, 
xlvi, 1vi, Ixiv.) 

Strong, Doctor. Master of a school at Canterbury attended by 
Darid Copperfield; a quiet, amiable old gentleman, who has mare 
ried a young lady many years his junior. 

‘Some of the higher scholars boarded 1 the doctor's house, and, through them, 
‘Tiearned at second-hand some particulars of the doctor’s history, — ax how he 
had not been married twelve months to the beautiful young lady I had seen in 
the study, whom he had married for love, as abe had not a sixponce, and had 
‘8 world of poor relat ‘so our fellows said) ready to swarm the doctor out 
6f house and home; also how the doctor's cogitating manner was attribute: 
bie to his being always engaged In looking out for Greck roots . . . witha view 
ton new dictionary which he had in contemplation. Adams, our hend boy, who 
bad @ turn for mathematics, had made a calculation, I was Informed, of the 
time this dictionary would take in completing, on the doctor’s plan and at th 
‘doctor's rate of going. He considered that it might be dons in one thousand 
#lx hundred and forty-nine years counting from the doctor s last or slxty:neo 
ond birthday. 














322 She Dickens Wietlonary. 


‘The doctor’s wife has a cousin, Jack Maldon, who is a pensioner 
on the bounty of her husband, and who attempts to make love 
to her, even while enjoying the hospitality of her husband's 
house. Through very shame, Mrs. Strong does not mention this; 
but there are ready and meddlesome tongues to hint suspicion 
to the kind old man, and to make him miserable. His faith in his 
wile never falters, however; and, to prove it, he makes « will, in 
which he leaves his property unconditionally to her, Hearing of 
this, and knowing that he has heard a magnified story of her inthe 
macy with her cousin, she resolves to go to her husband, and frankly 
explain all. This she docs, much to the confusion of those who 
have hoped to separate them, and to the complete satisfaction of her 
husband. Mrs. Strong had formerly been attached to Mr. Jack 
Maldon; but seeing his course, and having principles and senti- 
ments the exact opposite of his, she concludes, that “there is no 
disparity io marriage like unsuitability of mind and purpose,” and 
she thanks Heaven forthe day she wedded one whom she can 
esteem and respect and love altogether. (Ch. xvi, xvii, xix, xxxvi, 
xxxix, xlii, xly, Ixii, Lxiv.) 

Strong, Mrs. Annie, The wife of Doctor Strong, and daughter 
of Mrs, Markleham (the Old Soldier). She is a beautiful woman, 
much her husband’s junior, (Ch, xvi, xix, xxxvi, xlii, xlv, lxii, 
lxiv.) See Stnoxa, Docror. 

Tiffey, Mr. An old clerk in the office of Spenlow and Jorkins; a 
little dry man, wearing a stiff brown wig that looks as if it were 
made of gingerbread. (Ch. xxiii, xxvi, xxxiii, xxxv, xxviii.) 

Tipp. A carman employed in Murdstone and Grinby’s warehouse. 
(Ch. xi, xii.) 

Traddles, Thomas. \ schoolmate of David Copperfield’s at Sa- 
Jem House (Mr. Creakle's school). 

Yoor Tradiies! In a fight sky-blue wut, that made his arms and legs like Ger 
man sausages or roly-poly puddings, he was the merricst and most miserable 
of all the boys. He was always being caned,—T think he was exned every day 
that half-year, exoept one holiday Monday, when he was only rulered on both: 

nd wae always going to write to his uncle about it, and never did. 

ig his head on the desk for a little while, he would cheer up, somehow, 

begin to langh again, and draw akeletons all over bis #late before bis eyes were 
dry. T used, at first, to wonder what comfort Traddles found in drawing skele~ 
tout, and for some time looked upon him as a sort of hermit, who reminded, 
himvelf. by those symbols of mortality, that caning could n’t last forever. But 

T beliove he only did tt because they were eaay, and did n't want any featuren, 
He was very honorable, Traddies wus, and held it as a solemn duty in the boya 

to stand by one another. He suffered for this on several ocoasions, and partiow 








) wavrw Coppecttetv. 323 


‘arly once, when Steerfortk laughed In church, and the beadic thought ft was Trad. 
Ales, and took him out. I see him now, going nway in castody, despised by the 
congregation. He never said who was the real offender, though he smarted for It 
hoxt day, and was {imprisoned so mauy hours, that he came forth with a whole 
eharchyardfal of akeletons «warming all over his Latin dictionary. Bat he hnd 
his reward. Steerforth said there was nothing of the sneak in Traddies; snd we 
all felt that to be the highest pratse. 


Years afterwards, David meets Traddles in London, and finds him 
a shy, steady, but agreeable and good-natured young man, with a comic 
head of hair, and eyes rather wide open, which give him a surprised 
look, — not to say n hearth-broomy kind of expression. He is read- 
ing for the bar, and fighting his way on in the world against difficul- 
ties, He tells David, that, at his uncle's death, he got but fifty 
pouuds; though he had expected to be handsomely remembered in his 
will. 


“Thad never been brought up to any profession, and at first Twas at a lons what 
todo for myself. However, I bemin, with the assistance of the son of a profs 
tloual man, who bad been to Salem House, —Yawler, with his nose on one aide. 
‘Do you recollect him?” 

. He had not been there with mo, All the noses were straight, In my day, 
It don't matter,” sald Traddles. “I began, by means of his assistance, to 
copy law-writings. ‘That did n't answer very well; and then I began to atate caser 
for them, and make abstracts, and do that sort of work; for E am a plodding kind of 
fellow, Copperfield, and had learned the way of doing such things pithily. Well. 
That put it in my head to enter myself asa law-atadent; and that ran away with 
‘ll that was Ioft of the fifty pounds, Yawler reoommonided me to one or two other 
offices, however, — Mr. Waterbrook’s for oue,—and I got a good many Jobs. I 
was fortunate enough, too, to become acquainted with a person in the publishing 
‘way, who was gotting up an enoycloprdin, and he set ma to work; and, Indeed” 
(glancing at bis table) am st work for him at this minute. I am not a bad 
compiler, Copperfield,” auld Traddles, proserving the aame alr of cheerful confi- 
once in all he sald; “but T have no invention at all: not a particle, I suppose 
‘there never was a young man with less originality than I have.” 

‘As Traddles seemed to expect that I should assent to this as a matter of course, 
TL nodded; and he went on with the same sprightly patience — I can fad no better 
expression —as before, 

“So, by little and little, and not living high. T managed to serapo up the hun- 
Aired pounds at last,” sald Traddles: “and. thank Heaven! that" pald; though tt 
was —though It certainly was” — sald Traddies, wincing again as if he had had 
another tooth out, “a pull. Iam living by the sort of work I haye mentioned, 
sul, and I hope, one of these days, to get connected with some newspaper; which 
would almost be the making of my fortune. Now, Coppertield, you are vo exactly 
‘what you used to be, with that agreeable moe, and it 's so pleasant to see you, that 
Tsua’n’t conceal any thing. ‘Therefore you man know that I am engaged." 

Engaged! © Dora! 

“She is a curato’s daughter,” said Traddies, “one of ten, down in Devonshire. 
Ye.” For he saw w- glance, involuntarily, at the prospect on the inkstand, 
“That ’s the church! Yon 2ome round here, to the left, out of this gute," tracing 
Ibis finger slong the ivkstand; “and exactly where I hold this pen there stauds the 



































B24 Che Dickens Mictlonacp 


‘house, facing, you understand, towards the church. ... She ts 
eri”... “a Tittle older than me, but the dearest girl! I told you I 
going out of town? I have been down there, I 
back, and I had the most delightful timo! I dare ray ours is likely to bow rather 
long engagement; bat our motto {s,* Walt and hope.” We always say that. 
“Wait and hope.’ we alwaysaay. And ahe would walt, Copperfield, till she was 
sixty — any nge you can mention — for me." 

‘Tradiles rose from his chalr, and, with a triumphant smile, put his hand upom 
the white cloth I had observed. 

“ However,” he eald, “It % not that we hare n’t made a beginning towarde 
housekeeping. No, not we have begun. We must get on by degrees; bat we 
have begun. Hero,"drawing the eloth off with great pride and care, “ are two 
pleces of furniture to commence with. This flower-pot and stand she bought 
herself. You put that in» parlor-window,” wuld ‘Traddios, falling w little buck 
from it to survey it with the greater admiration, “with a plant in it, and—and 
there you are! ‘This little round table with the marble top (it " two feet ten ia. 
circumference) bought. You want tolay a book down, you know, or somebody 
comes to sce you or your wife, and wants a place to stand @ cup of tea upon, 
aud—and there you are ayaln!" aald Traddice. “Tt% an admirable piece of 
workmanship, firm as 8 rook!” 

T praised them both highly, and Traddles replaced the covering as carefully 
as he had removed it. 

‘Jt "% not a great deal towards the furnishing,” sald Traddles; “bat tt 
something. The table-clots and pilow-cases, and articles of that kind, ore 
what discourage me most, Copperfield. 80 does the Ironmongery, eandle- 
boxer, and gridirons, and that rort of necessaries; beans thor things tell, 
and mount up. However, *walt and hope! And I assure you she’s the dear 
est girl!” 

+ Tam quite certain of it,” sald 1. 

“In the mean time,” said Traddies, comtng back to his chatr, "and this ts the 
end of my prosing about myself, I got oa as well as cau. I don’t make mach; 
but I don’t spend much.” 


In due time, Traddles is married, and, getting on by degrees in 

is profession, at last accumulates a competence, becomes a 
and is honored and estecnied by all who know him. (Ch. vi, vii, bx, 
XXv, Xxvii, xxviii, xxxiv, xxxvi, xxviii, xli, sliii, xliv, xlviii, xlix, 
ii, liv, lvii-lix, Ixi, Ixii, Ixiv.) See p. 545, 

trotwood, Miss Betsey. The great-aunt of David Copper 
field ; an austere, hard-favored, and eccentric, but thoroughly kind- 
hearted woman. David's father had once been a favorite of hers, 
but had mortally offended by marrying “a wax doll.” On the 
occasion of the birth of his posthumous son, she pays his widow a 
visit for the first time. Finding Mrs. Copperfield quite ill, she im- 
nnediately proceeds to take charge of the house, and frightens 
everybody with her odd manners and abrupt speeches. 


“Tam all io a tremble,” faltered my mother. “TI doa’t know what" the 
woatter. I shall die, Lam sure!" 
Wo, Wot" sald Miss Betsey. “ Have some tea.” 


i 
5 
5 
i 














(0 Goppectfety. 325 


‘Oh, ear me, dear me! Do you thiuk {t will do’me any good?” eried my 
‘mother In n helpleas manner, 

“Of course, It will” said Miss Betsey. “It % nothing but fancy. What do 
you call your girl?” 

“I don’t know that It will be a glrl, yet, ma’am,!* sald my mother fanocently. 

“Bless the baby!" exclaimed Miss Betsoy, unconsciously quoting the second 
sentiment of the pineushion in the drawer up stairs, bat applying ttto my mother, 
Instead of me. “I don't mean that. I mean your servant.” 

“ Peggotty." sald my mother. 

‘“Peggotty!” repeated Miss Betsey with come indignation, ‘Do you menn 
to say, child, that any human being has gone into a Christian church, and got 
herself named Poggotty ?” 

‘it's her surname,” sald my mother faintly. “Mr. Copperfield called her 
by it, because her Christian name was the same as mine.” 

“Here, Peggotty!” cried Miss Betsey, opening the parlordoor. “Tea, 
‘Your mistress is a little unwell. Don’t dawdie.” 

Having issued thix mandate with as much potentiality as if she had been = 
recognized authority in the house ever alnce it had been a house, and having 
looked out to confront the amazed I’eggotty coming along the passage with a can- 
die at the sound of a strange voice, Miss Betsey shut the door again, and sat dows 
‘as before, — with her feet on the fender, the skirt of her dress tucked up, and her 
nsnds folded on ono knee, 

“You were speaking about its being = girl." sald Miss Betsey. “I have no 
doubt It will be a girl. I havo a presentiment that it must be a gitl, Now, child, 
from the moment of the birth of this girl ¥ = 

“Perhaps boy,” my mother took the liberty of putting in. 

“T tell you E have a prosentiment that it must be a girl," retarned Miss Betsey 
“Don'tcontradict. From the moment of this girl's birth, child, I Intend tobe her 
friend. T intend to be her godmother, and I beg you "ll call her Betsey ‘Trotwood 
Copperfield. Thwre must be no mistakes in life with this Betsey Trotwood. There 
must be no trifling with her aifections, poor dear! She must be well brought up, 
and well guarded from reposing any foolish coufidences where they aro not dov 
served. I must make that my caré.” 


When the child is born, Mr. Chillip, the attending physician, de- 
sends to the room where Miss Trotwood is waiting, and accosts hee 
thus: — 


* Well, ma'am, Tam happy to congratulate you.” 

“What upon?” anid my sunt sharply. 

‘Mr. Chillip was fluttered .. . by the extreme severity of my aunt's manver: 
to he made her & little bow, and gave her a little smile, to mollify her. 

“ Merey on tho man, what 's be doing! " cried my aunt impatiently, “Can't be 

ke? 
De calm, my dear ma'am," sald Mr. Chilllp In his softest necents, “There is 
ho longer nay occasion for uneasiness, maram, Be calm,” 

It hus since been considered almost # miracle that my annt did n't shake him, 
fand shake what he had to say out of him She only shook her own head at him, 
at In a way that mado tim yuall. 

“ Well, ma’am,” resumed Mr. Chilifp, ax voon ws he had courage, “I am happy 
*e congratulate you. Al) {x now over, ma'am, and well over.” 

During tho five minutes or 40 that Mr. Chilllp dovoted to the delivery of thie 
‘waiion, my sunt eyed him narrowly. 

= 


























826 Ede Dickens Mictlonary. 


ibe bi nt yep tins bar cn ae eae sl a 
them. 

“Well, matam, she will soon be quite comfortable, 1 hope,” returned Mr 
Chillip,—“quite as comfurtable as we can expect a young mother to be under 
these melancholy domestic clreumstances. ‘There cannot be any objection to yout 
seeing her prowmntly, ma'am. It may do her good.” 

“And she— how is she? said my aunt sharp! 

‘Mr. Chillip laid his head a little more on one side, and looked at my aunt Itke 
an amiable bird, 

“Tho babs,” said my aunt —"* how fs she?” 

“Ma'am,” returned Mr. Chillip, “I apprehended you had known. It" « 
boy” 

‘My aunt sald never a word, but took her bonnet by the strings, In the manner 
ofa sling, almed a blow at Mr.Chillip’s head with It, put it on beut, walked out, 
and never came back. She vanished like a discontented fulry, or lke one of 
those supernatural beings whom It was popularly supposed I was entitled to wee; 
and never eame buck any more. 


After the death of his mother, David runs away from the warehouse, 
in London, where his step-father has placed him in a menial position, 
to seek the aunt of whom he has often heard, resolved upon trying to 
soften her heart, and, if need be, to apologize for not having been born 
a girl. He arrives at last in Dover, ragged, footsore, and weary; ascer- 
tains the way to his aunt's house; and, on reaching it, sces a figure 
in the garden, which he knows must be that of his kinswoman. 


“Go away!” said Miss Betsey, shaking her head, and making a distant chop in 
the afr with her knife. “Go along! No boys here." 

Ewatched her, with my heart mt my lips, as xhe marched to ® corner of her gar 
den, and stooped to dig up some little root there. ‘Then, without » scrap of courage, 
Dut with a great deal of desperation, I went softly In and stood beside her, touching 
her with my finger. 

“If you please, ma’am,” I begun. 

She started, and looked up. 

“If you please, aunt.” 

“ En?" exclaimed Miss Betsey, ina tone of amazement I hye never heard 
approached. 

* If you please, aunt, I'am your nephew." 

“Oh, Lord! "said my aunt. And sat flat down in tho garden-path. 

“Tam David Copperfield of Blunderstone, in Suffolk, — where you came on the 
night when I was born, and saw my dear mamma, I have been very unbappy 
since she died. I hare been slighted, nnd taught nothing, and thrown upon my 
self, and pat to work not fit forme. It made me run away to you. I was robbed 
At first rotting out, and have walked all the way, and have never slept In = bed 
Aince I began the journey.” Here my sel{-support gure way all at once; and with 
& movement of my hands intended to show her my ragged #tate. aud call it 
to witness that I had suffered somothing. I broke into a passion of erying whieh 1 
suppose had been pent up within me all the week. 

‘My aunt, with every sort of expression but wonder discharged frcmn her eounte 
nance, #at on the gravel, #taring at me, until I began toery; when abe got up in 
great hurry, collared me, and took me into the parlor. Mer firet proceeding they: 











+ 








David Copperilelv. 327 


‘was ‘0 unlock a tall prest, bring out several bottles, and pour tome of the con: 
tents of ench into my mouth. F think they must have been taken out mt ran 
dom; for I am sure 1 tasted aniseed-water, anchovy-sauce, and anlad-dressing. 
When she had administered these restoratives, as I was still quite hysterical, 
sand unable to contro my tobs, she put me on the sofa, with w shnwl under my 
head, and the handkerchief from her own head under my feet, lest I should 
sully the cover; and then sitting herself down behind the green fan or screen 
Ihave already mentioned, so that I could not see her face, ejaculated at inter 
‘vals, “Mercy on us!” lotting those exclamations off Iike minute-guns. 


After a time, recovering from her astonishment, she begins to 
consider what she shall do with him, and determines, as a neces- 
sary preliminary, to have him well washed. While the bath is 
heating, she becomes suddenly rigid with indignation, and calls out, 
“Janet! Donkeys!” upon which David, to his great surprise, sees 
‘his aunt and her servant-girl rush out doors, and drive off several 
donkeys and small boys from the green in front of the house. This, 
he finds, is regularly repeated every hour during the day, and every 
day during the week, sometimes resulting in a hand-to-hand conflict 
between his aunt and the bigger boys, but in which Miss Betsey 
always came ont victorious. 

Mr. Murdstone, learning the whereabouts of his step-ton, calls on 
‘Miss Trotwood, and informs her, that, if she puts any obstacles in 
the way of his taking the lad home, his doors will be forever shut 
against him. David begs to stay with his aunt, and she tells Mr, 
Mardstone that he can go as soon as he likes, and she will take her 
chance with the boy. Adopting David as her son, she renames 
him Trotwood Copperfield; sends him to an excellent school; and 
afterwards articles him to Spenlow and Jorkins, proctars, London. 
Finding a new and worthy object for her affection and care, her 
tomper softens by degroes; her oddities of manner diminish; and 
her solid worth and goodness of heart become more conspicuous 
(Ch. ii, xiii-xy, xvii, xix, xxiii-xxv, xxxvii-xl, 
xlv, xlvii-xlix, li-lv, lvii, lix, lx, Ixiv.) See Bastey, Mu 

Ricnarp. 

‘Trotwood, Husband of Miss Betsey. A handsome man, 
younger than Miss Betsey, whom he treats so falsely, ungratefully 
and cruelly, that she separates from him, and resumes her maiden 
name. He marries another woman; becomes an adventurer, a 
gambler, and a cheat; nnd finally sinks into the lowest depths of 
degradation. (Ch. fi, xvii, xxiii, xlvii, lv.) 

. Lodge-keeper and tool of Mr. Creakle, at Salem House; 
stout man with a bul neck, a wooden leg, a surly face, overbanging 








328 The Dickens Dietlonaryp. 


temples, and his hair cut close all round his head. (Ch. y= 
vi.) + 

Walker, Mick. A boy employed at Murdstone and Grinby’s, 
with three or four others (including David Copperfield}, to rinse out 
bottles, cork and label them, Ke. (Ch. xi, xi.) See p. 201. 

Waterbrook, Mr. Mr. Wickfield’s agent in London; a middle- 
aged gentleman with a short throat and a good deal of shirt-collar, 
who only wants a black nose to be the portrait of a pug-dog. 
(Ch. xxv.) 

Waterbrook, Mrs, His wif; a woman who affects to be very 
genteel; likes to talk about the aristocracy; and maintains, that, if 
she has a weakness, it is “blood.” (Ch. xxv.) 

Wickfleld, Agnes. Daughter and housekeeper of Mr, Wick- 
field, and friend and counsellor of David Copperfield, whose second 
wife she becomes after the death of Dora. (Ch. xv=xix, xxiv, 
xxxiv, xxv, xxxix, xlii, xiii, lit-liv, Ivii, lviii, 1x, Lxii-txiv.) See 
Correarixip, Davip. 

Wickfield. Mr. A lawyer at Canterbury, and the agent and 
friend of Miss Betsey Trotwood. He is nearly ruined by Uriah 
Heep (at first a clerk in his office, and afterwards his partner), 
who by adroit management, the falsification of facts, and various 
malpractices, acquires a complete ascendency over him, and obtains 
control of all his property; but in the end Urish’s machinations are 
foiled, and his rascality exposed, by Mr. Micawber, whom he has 
endeavored to make use of as an instrument to assist in the ac- 
complishment of his dishonest purposes. (Ch. xv, xvii, xix, xxv, 
xxxix, xlii, lii, liv, Ix.) 

William, A waiter in an inn at Yarmouth, who wheedles little 
David Copperfield out of the greater part of his dinner. (Ch. ¥.) 

William. Driver of the Canterbury coach. (Ch. xix.) 


Davy Coppertiers 829 


PRINCIPAL INCIDENTS. 


(Cuarren I. Mrs. Copporteld, sitting by tho fire, te atartiod by the appearance of Mise 
Bewey Trotwood: their conversation upon the late Mr, Copperield, &c.; birth of David, 
‘and sudden disappearance of Miss Getsey.— If. David relates somo of the Incidents of his 
‘early childhood; his frst meeting with Me, Murdatone; Peggotty remouscrates with Mra. 
‘Copperfield against the attentions of Mr. Murdstone; David goes to Lowestoft with Mtr 
‘Murdstone, and reports his conversation to his mother: Peggotty and David go to Yar 
fmouth.—I1f. David makes the acquaintance of Mr, Peggotty and hie family, ant falls 2a 
Jve with little Em'ly; be retarms home, and flods hus mother married to My. Murdstone. 
=IV. Mr. Murdatone takes David tn band; arrival of Miss Jane Murdstone, who amuses 
{the place of housekeepers David falls Into disgrace over his lessons: he ts beaten by Mrs 
‘Murdatone, whowe hand he bites; Ne ts imprisoned tn is room for Ave days, ax a pulshe 
‘ment, and then sent from hoine to school. —¥. David sends word to Peggotty that “Barkie 
4s willin’s"* the friendly walter relieves David by eating his dinner; David arrives in 
London, and ls mot by Mr. Mell of Salem Howse; they arrive at Salem House, and David 
ass @ placard, reading “Take caro of bimj he bites,” attached to his tack.— VL. My 
Creatic und amily return, and the school reopens; Stecrfurth takes charge of David’ 
‘mony, anil tzeats the boys In thelr bedroom therewith. — VII. David amunes the Boye ta 
Ibis room by repeating the stories ho has read; altereation between Steerforth and Mr. 
‘Moll, and Mr, Meli’s dismission from the school Mr. Peggotty and Iam vielt David at the 
school, and are introduced to Steerforth.— VILL. David goes home for the holidays; Mr. 
‘DarAis informs him he ts expecting an answer from Poggotty s in the absenesof Mr, Murd- 
‘ono and bis sister, David spends & plewsant evening with his mothor and Pegyotty 1 
David leads a wretched life during the holidays, and goes back to school. 1X. He re 
‘eelves the news of hls mother’s death: returning home, he makes the acquatatance of Mtr, 
‘Omer; Peezotty relates to David the elreumstances of his mother's death. X. Peggotty 
receives warning from Miss Murdstano, and she and David go again to Yarmouth Pog 
fotty conelades to accept Mr. Barkls's proposal, and they are married; David returns 
‘home, and falls into neglect he is provided for by a situation tn tho house with which Mr, 
‘Mardstone ts connected. — XI. Duvid begins his life at Murdstone and Grinby's, and also 
imoete Mr, Mioswher, with whom ne 18 to board; Mr, MLicawber falls into dioultien, and ie 
talben to the Debtors’ Prison; he petitions the house of commons fora change in the awe 
for linprisonment for debt, — X11. He is released from confinement, and decides to leave 
Sondon with his family; David determines to run away front Murdstone and Grinby"s, and 
seek his aunt; his adventures and mlefortunes on tho road from London to Dorer,—~ SEIT. 
Ho Introduces himself to Minx Hetsey Trotwood; Mr. Dick's wise advice tx axked and fale 
owed; Miss Boteey's ndignation at the donkeys. —XIV. Mr, Dick, writing his memotlal, 
Ande some disioulty in kooping Charles the Pirst out of tt; Mies Betery tells Trartd Str. 
Dick's story; she is visited by Mir. and Miss Murdstone, who come to claim Davids she 
takes Mr, Dick's advice, and decides to Koop him, giving him the name of ‘T-otwood. — 
XY. David ts taken to Canterbury by his aunt, where he 1s to be put to school: Le makew 
Ue soquaintance of Mr, Wick#leld and Agnes, with whom be 1s to board, and also of Uriah, 
Hoep.— XVI. David begins his schoo}-tife at Dr. Strong's: he hearsa conversation between 
‘Or, Strong wnd Mr. Wickfiold sont Mr, Jack Maldon, and afterwards secs that gentleman 

Mr. Wickiteld's; Uriah Hoop explains his" umble" churncter and posttion; the party 
AEDr. Strong's op the eve of Jack Maldon's departure for Indiay David discovers & pe 
sailar expreasdon upon Mra, Strong’ countenance, which makes a lasting lunpresaion upon 
zim. —XVIL David hears from Mr. Diok the story of the strange man who frightens Mise 
“rotwood Mr. Disk makes friends with, avid takes tea with Urtals and tbs 
‘other, and Mr. Sticawber unexpectedly David enjoys a jovinl dinnor with 
sho Micawbery, amt receives « dismal lotter from Mr. Mlcawbor directly afterwards. = 
XVIIE. David takes a rotroapective view of bis schoollays at Canterbury.——XIX, After 
leaving scdool, his aunt sdvises « visit to Yarmouth; David Gret learus from Agnes the 

- . 


—_- 























330 Ebe Mieke 





Bietlonary. 


‘mfaenco which Uriah Heep ts gntning over Me, Wickdeld: no also hears of Ue tlatma and 
probable return of Mr. Jack Maldon; David meets Steerforth in London, —XX. David goes 
‘howe with Steerforth} his reception by Mes. Steerforth and Rosa Dart, —XXI. Hie lmprese 
Mons of Littimee; Steerforth accompanies David to Yarmouth; Vegpatty’s joy at seeing 
‘David: Barkla grows o"*littlo near; Dwrid and Steertorth go to Mr. Pergouty's, and heat 
from him the story of the engagemont of Ham and ttle m'ly.—XXEL. Steerforth shows 
‘David his gloomy sido; Steceforch bays & boat, whlch he calls "* The Little Emly; "" they 
discover Martha following Ham and Emily; the “ volatile" Miss Mowoher makes Ber ap- 
‘pearance at tbe nn; they tell her the story of Emily; Emily befrtends Martha, and shedy 
tears at the thought of her own unworthiness. — XXIII. David consalte Steerforth In 
regard to his choice of @ profession, and decides to become @ proctor; Sim Betery and 
‘Derid, on the way to Doctors” Commons, enoounter the strange man whe has such an 
effect upon her; David Is articled to Spertlow and Jorkins, tnakes tls Gret viet to 
courty be takes tho lodgings at Sire. Crupp’s.— XXTY. Ile gives a supper at bis lodgings 
to Steerfurth and his friends, becomes Intoxicated, and goes In that condition to the theatre, 
‘where bo moots Agnes. — XXV, Ills remorve on tho following day) hy Aynos's invitation 
he calls upon her, and sho warns him against Sieerforth; David meets Traddies at the 
‘dinner-party at Mr. Waterbrook"s; David takes Uriah Heep home with him, end hears 
from him the particalars of the change in his expectations, and his designs ta regard to 
Agnes. —XXVI. David goes homo with Mr, Speniow; hoe moots Mise Dora Speniow, and 
falls tn love at sight; Miss Murdetone appears as Dora's“ confidential friend." — XXVIL. 
‘David goes to woo Traddlos, and Sads him boarding with Mr, and Mrs, Micawber,— 
XXVILL David gives a dinnerparty to Traddies and the Micawbers, which ts Interrupted 
by the appearance of Litthmer: Mr, Mioawber throws down the gauntlet to soclety : Stee 
forth's arrival at David's rooms; he brings news of the sickness of Mr. Barkls, and David 
decides to go down to Yarmouth; another gloomy letter from Mr. Mloawber, —XXIX. 
‘David visite Steerforth at his home again. —XXX. Arriving at Yarmouth he hears from 
‘Mr. Omer of the unsettled state of litte Em'ly; Mr. Barkia™ goos out with the tide." — 
XXXL Disappearance of Emily, who ts carried away by Steerforth; Mr. Pexpotty decides 
to seok bis niece, leaving Mrs. Guramidge in charge of bis house, Ham going to live with 
his munt.—XXXIL. Miss Moweher explains her connection with Steerforth's intimacy 
‘with Emily, and her determination to do what she can to resout her; Mr. Peggouty aad 
‘Darid call upon Mrs. Steecforth ; pamtonate conduct of Hows Dartley Mr. Poggotty sete out 
on his Journey. XXXII. David encounters Mr. Murdstone ar the oftce of Me. Spenlow ; 
‘David attends & party on Dora's birthday, and falls deeper in love; ho visite Dora at the 
hhouso of her friend, Jutia Mills, declares his passion, and Is accepted; the engagement tt 
to be kopt a socrut from Mr. Speniow. — XXXIV. Traddies gives David kome taformation 
In regand to the family connections of “ the dearest girl In the world; * with Peggotty's 
wsistance bo redeomna bis household foods, taken on execution by Mr. Mioawhbers orede 
tore; David, returning home, Is astonished to Qnd his aunt and Me. Dick in bis rooma, 
and to hear from her of the lows of her property.—XXXV. David makes an tneTeotual 
Attempt to cancel bis articles: David's Joy at unexpeotediy meeting Agnes, who goes with 
im to sce Mies Motsey, and they hear from her an account of her Joxses} Uriah Heep 
shows his increasing Influence over Mr, Wiekflell,— XXXVI. David becomes amanuenae 
to Dr. Strong, who has removed to London; he meets Mr. Jack Maldon, who tras retarned 
from India; David determines to learn short-hand reporting. and he aod Traddles find em 
ployment for Mr. Dick; Mr. Micawber, about to leave London for Canterbury as thy oon- 
‘dental clerk of Uriah Heep, entertains David and Trades, and sotties his peauniary ob 
« fatious to the latter by presenting him hist. 0.U.—XXXVi1. David informs Dore of 
‘2e change in his fortune and prospects. —XXXVIIL. Traddies delivers partiomentary 
moeches, and David roports him; Mr. Spenlow discovers, through Mise Murdstone, the 
attachment of David and Dora,and forbids the engagements #udden clea of Mr, Speniiwr, 
and the disordered state In which his affairs are found; Dora goes to live with ber maiden 
dunteat Putuey.—XXXIX. David finds Mr, Micawber installed ms confidential ele ta 
Wickseld and Heep, and not altogether eaxy in the position; he consults Agues au the 
‘state of his engagement to Dore, and by her advice writes te Dora's aunts: Uriah forter 
Gus company Gpoo David, and intimates bis designs in regard to Agus Meet upon Mt 
‘WiekAeld of the KnowLedge of these designs. — XL. David encounters Mz, Peggotty, Whe 





























Davl(y Copperllelv. 331 


pelatrs is travels in search of Emily, and ts overbeard by Martha Endell.— XI. David 
‘und Trades g0 to Putney to seo the Misses Spealow, who consent, on certain conditions, 
te ecetro David's visits. —XLU. Agnes's Grat meeting with Dora; Urlab Moop uttempta to 
roneiee Dr, Strong of the fhithlesness of his wife, and the noble answer of the doctot 
We his aspersions; David gives Uriah a blow; David receives  ringular letter from 
Mrs Mlcawbee,—XLIL Marriage of David and Dora.—XLIV. Some account of their 
housekeeping. —XLV. 3. Dick suspects tho cause of the unhappiness of Mre Strong, 
and devermines to ~ set things eg convendent opportaaity offering, he brings about 
Go donred explanation. — XLVI. David, passing by Mire, Steerforth's house, ts called 
by Kosa Dartle, who makes Littimer repeat to him the story of Steerforth and Kuully, 
their separation, and Emily's fight; David repeats the story to Mr. Pogrotty, and advises 
‘him to pat Martha upon the watch for Emily, if she should return to London. —XLVIL. 
David and Mr. Peggotty follow Martha to the rrver-aide, and save her from sulelde, and 
‘then seoure her promise to devote herself to the task of saving Emily: David moots again 
‘the strange man who has auch an influence over Stina Heteey, and learns from her that he 
Seher husband. —XLVILI. Some further account of David's housekeeping, and the core 
mencement of Dora's decline. —XLAX. David receives a mysterious letter from Mr 
Micawher; Tesddles has one equally mysterious from Mra Micawbee: they meet Mr. 
Mleawber ty appointment, and flad him in very low splrita; they take him home to Mise 
‘Trotwood’, whore he Is overoomo by the cordiatity of Mr, Diek; commits sundry strange 
hinders a his favorite occupation of making punch, and Mnalty relieves his mind by a 
frantie denouncement of Uriah Hoep.—L- Martha brings David news of Emily: going 
to Sartha’s lodging, they nee Rosa Dartle enter the room, and from an wnocctpled room. 
‘they wituess the Interview botwoen Rosa Dartio snd Emily; Peggotty returns, and tnoete 
Emily. —L1. Ho relates to David and Miss Betsey tho story of Emily's escape from Little 
her, how sho was befriended by a poor cottager, and finally, reaching London, waa rescued 
by Martha: he slso informs thera of bis plan of emigrating with mfly to Australia; David 
aitls upon Mr. Omer, and Gnds him fu good spirits; Ham gives David @ parting menage 
for Emily; Mrs. Gummidgo insists on going with Mr. Peggotty, LIT. Miss Betsey, Mr. 
Dick, Traddles, and David go down to Canterbury to Leep thelr appolutment with Mr, 
‘Micawbory interriew in the office of Wiokfleld and Heep, where Micawber exposta the 
‘villany of Uriah, and Truddies, acting for Mr. Wickfeld, makes certain demands with 
‘wlulch Uriah thinks it best to comply Miss Rotsey and David witness the reconciliation 
Of Mr-and Mra. Micawber; Misa Botsey propoves to them emigration, with an, offer of 
DOCUINEY asalstance.—LIIL, Dora's inoreasing weakness, and her death.—LIV. MM 
Micawber's preparations for etnigrating; Traddies explains the condition of Mr, Woke 
folds affulrs, and the recovery of Miss Trotwood's property; they arrange Micawber's 
money matters; Mist Hotscy tells David the reason of her recent trouble, and ho acoome 
fanies her to the funeral of her busband: Darid writes to Emily, communicating Ham's 
Inat message, and receives her reply-—LV. The great storm at Yarmouth; David gocs 
down to thie ahore to seo the wrecked schooner, with the sctive Ngure consplouous among. 
er people: 3am attempts to reach the wreck, and is killed by the wavos, and the body 
‘Of the sctive seaman is washed ashore, and praves to be Steerforth. LVL. David bears 
the news to Mrs. Hteerforth ; passionate marmer of Woaa Dartie towards Mre. Steerforth. 
=LVIL The emigrants completo their preparntioos, and set sail, Me. Porgotty taking 
Marcha with bim.—LVIL, David goes abroad and femains for threo years TAX. On 
bis return he seeks Traddles, ods him married and keeping house, and with Ave of Sophy's 
ators for rialtoray David encounters Mr. Chillip, and hears news frou the Mundstones — 
EX. He returns to Dover; Miss Botwy gives bim « hint that Agnes’s affections are et 
Jared; David's interview with Agnes and her father, and Mr. Wicksield’s story of ber 
‘arand kindness. —LXL. A glimpse at the happy life of Traddies and Sophy; David and 
Traddies find Mr. Creskle « remected magistrate; under his escort they visit ® modes 
prison, and tnd Livttine: nnd Ursa Heep among Its inmates, LXI. Mins Betsey atrongtb- 
‘ens Yiavid's bellof nthe attachment chat Agues has formed; questioning Agnes, David 
nds thet te ts himself the object of *. —~ LXIIL. Marriage of David and Agnes; ten years 
aiter, they receive » risit from Mr. Neggotty, who brings good accounts of all the em 
ranula —LXIV. A laat retrorpect, showing what has happened to the principal personages 
Mtoe sory 




















Bleak House. 





‘Tn the preface to “David Copperfield,” Mr. Dickens fromised to renew bis 
sequaintance with the public by patting forth again “two green leaves once @ 
month.” This he did by bringing out, in 1852, tn the familiar serial form, the first 
umber of a new novel, called “ Bleak House,” after a tall, exposod brick building 
‘which had been his summer residence at Broadstairs, — a favorite watering-place 
‘on the east coast of the Isle of Thanet. It was published by Bradbury and Evans, 
‘was illustrated by “Phiz," and ran through the usual twenty numbers. ‘The pref 
ce wns dated August, 1663; and the dedication was to the suthor’s “companions 
fo the guild of literature and art.” The work was chiefly aimed at the vexatious 
“delays of the Court of Chancery, and the enormous expense of prosecuting sults 
therein. At the time of pubileaifon there was a sult before tie court-whtot had 
been commenced nearly twenty years before; In which from thirty to forty counsel 
had been known to spear at one time; in which costs had been tnourred to the 
‘amount of seventy thousand pounds; which was a friendly suits and which was 
said to be no nearer to its termination then than when it was begun. 





OHARACTERS INTRODUCED. 


Badger, Mr. Bayham. A medical practitioner in London, to 
whom Richard Carstone is articled. Mr. Badger is noted princi- 
pally for his enthusiastic admiration of his wife's former husbands; 
he being the third, 

Mr. Bayham Badger... was a plok, frest-ficed, erisp-looking gentlemae 
with m weak voice, white tooth, ght halr, and surprised eyes, —somo yeare 
younger, Islould say, than Mrs, Hayham Kadger, Me admired her exceedingly 
bat principally, and to begin with, ou the curious ground (as it seemed to us) of 
ber having had three husbands, We had barely taken our seats, whon he tale 
te Mr. Jaradyos, quite triumphantly, — 

“ You would hardly suppose I was Mrs. Bayham Badger’s third” 

a2 











Bleak Mouse. 835 


“ Indeed?” said Mr. Jarndyce. 

“Her third," sald Mr. Badger. “ Mrs. Bayham Badger has not the appearance, 
‘Miss Summerson, of w Indy who has had two former husbands?” 

I sald, “Not at all!" 

“And most remarkable men!” paid Mr, Badger tn a tone of confidence. 
“Captain Swosser of the Royal Navy, who was Mrs. Badger’s first husband, was 
‘s vory distinguished officer indeed, ‘The name of Professor Dingo, my Immedi- 
ate ‘Perhaps you may be inter- 
ested . . . tn this portrait of Captain Swomer. foe! when I look at ft...» 

‘that "ea man I should like to have seen, . . . On tho other side, Professor Dingo, 
I knew him well; attended him fn his last Illness, A speaking likeness 
Over the plano, Mrs. Bayham Badger when Mra. Swoaser; over the sofa, Mrs. 
Dayham Badger when Mrs. Dingo, Of Mrs. Bayham Badger in ease, I possoes 
the orlginal, and hare no copy.” 

(Ch. siti, xvii, L) 

Badger, Mrs. Bayham. A lady of about fifty, who dresses 
youthfully, and improves her fine complexion by the use of » little 
rouge. She is not only the wife of Mr. Badger, but the widow of 
Captain Swosser of the Royal Navy, and of Professor Dingo, to 
‘the loss of whom she has become inured by custom, combined with 
science, — particularly science, (Ch. xiii, xvil.) 

Bagnet, Matthew, culled Lioxum Vira. An ex-artillery-man, 
“tall and upright, with shaggy eyebrows, and whiskers like the fibres 
of a cocoanut, not a hair upon his head, and a torrid complexion.” 
On leaving the service, he goes into "the musical business,” and 
becomes a bassoon-player. Of his wife's judgment he has a very 
exalted opinion; though he never forgets the apostolic maxim that 
“the head of the woman is the man.” To an old companion-in- 
arms he says, — 

“George! You know me. It my old girl that advises. She has the head; 
but I never own to it before her: discipline must be maintained, Walt tiil the 
greens is off her mind; then we ll consult. Whatever the old girl says do, 
do it” 

(Ch. xxvii, xxxiv, xlix, liii, lxvi.) 

Bagnet, Mrs. His wife; a soldierly-looking woman, usually en 
gaged in washing greens. (Ch. xxvii, xxxiv, xlix, lii, lv, xvi.) 

‘Mrs. Bagnot {* not an {ll-looking woman; rather lurge-boned, a littleeoarse: 
in the grain, and freckled by the sun and wind, which have tanned her hulr upon 
the forehead, but healthy. wholesome, and bright-eyed. A strong, busy, activa, 
honest-faced woman, of from forty-five to fifty. 

Bagnet, Malta. Their elder danghter; so called in the family 
*  Ghough not so christened), from the place of her birth in bar 

racks. (Ch. xxvii, xxxiv, xlix, Ixvi.) 
Bagnet, Quebec, Their younger daughter; so called in the fam 














Bat Che Mickens Mlctfonary. 


ily (though not so christened), from the place of her birth in bar 
racks. (Ch. xxvii, xxiv, xlix, Ixvi.) 

Bagnet, Woolwich. Their son; +0 called in the family (though 
not so christened), from the place of his birth in barracks. (Ch. 
xxvii, xxxiv, xlix.) 

Barbary, Miss. Aunt and god-mother to Esther Summergon. 
(Ch. ili.) 

She was a good, good woman, She went to church three times every Sunday, 
‘snd to morning prayers on Wednesdays and Fridays, and to lectures whenever 
there were lectures; and never missed, She was handsome, and, if she had 
‘ever smiled, would have been (I used to think) like an angel; but she nevor 
smiled. She was always grave and strict. Sho was s0 very good herself, £ 
‘thought that the badnexs uf other people made her frown all her life, 


Blinder, Mra. A good-natured old woman, with a dropsy, or an 
asthma, or perhaps both; a friend of the Necketts. (Ch. xy, 
xxiii.) 

Bogsby, James George, Landlord of “The Sol's Arms” tay- 
ern, (Ch. xxxiii.) 

Boodle, Lord, A friend of Sir Leicester Dedlock’s; a man of 
considerable reputation with his party, and who has known what 
office is (Ch. xii.) : 

Boythorn, Lawrence. A friend of Mr. Jarndyce's; intended 
aga portrait of Dickens's friend, Walter Savage Landor. (Ch. ix, 
xii, xiii, xv, xvili, xxiii, xlili, Ixvi.) 

“I went to school with this fellow, Lawrence Boythorn,” sald Mr. Jarn- 
dyce, . . . “more thas five and forty years ago. He was then the most impet- 
uous boy in the world, and he ls now the most ‘mpetuous man; he was then 
the loudest boy In the world, and be is now the loudest man; he was then the 
heartlost and sturdiest boy in the world, and be ls now the heartiest aud sturdl- 
est man. He ts a tremendous fellow.” 

“Tn stature, sir?” asked Richard. 

“ Protty well, Rick, In that respect," said Mr. Jarndyce; “beng some ten 
years older ‘8 couple of Inches taller, with his head thrown back like 
u old soldier, his stalwart chest squared, his hands like a clean blacksmith’s, 
‘and bie lungs!—there ’s no simile for his tangs. Talking, tanghing, or snore 
ing, they make the beams of the house shake, . . . But 1t7 the Inside of the 
‘man, the warm heart of the man, the passion of the man, the fresh blood of the 
man, . .. that T «peak of. His language is as sounding as hia voice. He + 
Is always in extremes; perpetually in the superlative degree, In his condem= 
mation he is all ferocity. You might euppose him to be an ogre from what he 
says, and I believe he has the reputation of one with some people, There! 
tell you no more of him beforehand.” . . . 

We were sitting round the fire, with no light but the biaze, when the hall 
door suddenly burst open, and the hall resounded with these words, uttered 
with the groatest vohemence, and in & atentorlan tone: — 

“ We lave been misdirected, Jarndyce, by # most abandoned ruffian, whe 





























Blea® Wouse. 385 


told ns to take the turning to the right, Instead of to the left. Ha fe the mont 

Iwlolerable scoundrel on the face of the earth, His father must have been « 
‘most consummate villain ever to have had such a son, I would have ‘tat fel 
Jow shot without the least remorse!” 

“Did he do it on purpose?” Mr. Jarndyce taquired. 

“Ihave not the slightest doubt thnt the scoundrel hns passed his whole ex 
Inteneo In misdirecting travellers!” returned the other. * By my soul, thought 
‘kim the worst looking dog I had ever beheld, when he was telling mo to take the 
turning to the right. And yet 1 stood before that fellow ‘soe *o faor, and did 
mt knock his brains outi" . .~ 

‘Wo all conceived a prepossession in his [Boythorn's] favor; for there was = 
sterling quality in his langh, and In his rigorous healthy volce, and in the round. 
‘ness and fulness with which he uttered every word he spoke, and in the very 
fury of his superlatives, which seemed to go off like blaak cannons, nd hurt 

- + +» He was not only a rery handsome old gentleman, —upright and 
stalwart, as ho had been described to us)—with m massive gray head, a dne 
‘composure of face when silent, afigure that might have become corpalent but 
for bis belng #0 continoally in earnest that he gave it no rest, and w chin that 
might haye subsided into a double chin bot for the vehement emphasis in which 
ft was coustantly required to assist; but he was such a true gentleman In bis 
manner, #0 chivalroualy polite, his face was lghted by  emile of so much 
sweetness and tendernoss, and it seemed vo plain that he hnd nothing to hide, 
Dut showed himself exactly ax he was, . . . that really I could not help looking 
at him with equal pleasure ns he «at at dinner, whether he smilingly conversed 
with Ada and me, or was led by Mr. Jarndyce Into some great volley of super- 
Jatives, or throw up his head like a bloodhound, and gave out that tremendous 
“Hs, ha, bal” 


Bucket, Mr. Inspector. A detective officer, wonderfully patient, 
persevering, affable, alert, imperturbable, and sagacious; a stoutly- 
built, stendy-looking, sharp-cyed man in black, of about the middle 
age. The original of this character is supposed to have been In- 
spector Field of the London police, with whom Mr. Dickens was 
well acquainted, and whom he has described in the article in “Re- 
printed Pieces,” entitled “On Duty with Inspector Field." (Ch. 
xxii, xxiv, xxv, xlix, lili, liv, lvi, lvii, lix, Ixi, Lei.) 


Mr. Bucket and his fat forefinger are much in consultation. .,, Ie pute 
It to hils ears, and ft whispors Information; he purs It to ble lips, and it en- 
Jolns him to secrecy; he rubs It over his nose, and It sharpens his scent; be 
shakes ft before a guilty man, and it charms hin to his destruction. . . . Othe 
‘erwise mildly studious In his observation of human nuture, on the whole, a be: 
niiguant philosopher not disposed to be severe upon the follies of mankind, Mr. 
Bucket pervades vast number of houses, and strolls about an Infinity of 
streets; to outward appoarance rather languishing for want of un object. He 
4s fm the friendiiest condition towards hls spectos, and will drink with most of 
them. He is free with his money, able in his mannera, innocent fn ble con 
‘versation; but through the placid stream of his life there gildes nn undercure 
rent of forefinger. ‘Time and place cannot bind Mr. Bucket. Like man in the 
abstract, ho is bore to-day, and gone to-morrow; but, very unlike man indeed, 
‘he is here again the next day, 





















wa 


- 





386 She Dickens Mictfonary. 


Bucket, Mrs, Wife of Mr. Inspector Bucket; a lady of & natu 
ral detective genius, which, if it had been improved by professional 
exercise, might have done great things, but which has paused at 
the level of a clever amateur. (Ch. liii, liv.) 

Buffey, The Right Honorable William, M.P, A friend 
of Sir Leicester Dedlock’s, (Ch. xii, xxvili, lili, Iviii, Lxvi.) 

Richard. A ward of John Jarndyce, and a suitor in 
Chancery; a handsome young man with an ingenuous fice and a 
most engaging laugh, afterwards married to Ada Clare. 
possessed of more than ordinary talent, and of excellent principles, 
he yet lacks tenacity of purposy, and becomes successively a sta- 
dent of law, a student of medicine, and a soldier, Ever haunted 
by the long-pending Chancery suit, and always basing his expendi- 
tures and plans on the expectation of a speedy and favorable de- 
cision of the case, he at last becomes very restless, lenves the army, 
and devotes all his energies to the suit. When the case is finally 
closed, and the whole estate is found to have been swallowed up in 
cos’, the blow proves too much for him, and quickly results in his 
death. (Ch. iii-vi, viii, ix, xii, xiv, xvii, xvill, xx, xxili, xxiv, 
Xxx¥, Xxxvii, xxxix, xlili, xly, li, Lx, Ixi, xiv, Lev.) 

Chadband, The Reverend Mr. A large yellow man, with a 
fit smile, and a general appearance of having a good deal of traz- 
oil in his system. 

Ho ts very much embarrassed about the arms, as If they were inconventent 
to him, and he wanted to grovel; is very much in « perspiration about the head; 
and nover speaks without frat putting up lis great hand, as if delivering a 
token to his hearers that he ts going to edify them, 

From Mr. Chadband's being much given to describe himself, both verbally 
‘and in writing, as a weasel, he is @ecasionally mistaken by strangers for a gen- 
tloman connected with navigation; but he ix, ws he expresses it, “in the minke 
ty.” Mr. Chadband ia attached to no particular denomination, and is consid 
ered by his porsecutors to have nothing #0 very remarkable to say on the 
greatest of mubjects, ax to render his volunteering on his own account, at all 
incumbent on his conscience; but he has his followers, and Mrs. Suageby Is 
of the number. 

Visiting Mrs, Snagsby's with his wifi, one day, he salutes the 
Indy of the house, and her husband, in the following manner, which 
may serve as a specimen of his usual style of delivering himself: — 

© My friends, . . . pence be on this house!—on the master thereof, on tha 
mistress thereof, on the young maidens, and on the young men. My fiends. 
why (to I wish for peace? Whatis peaco? I it war? No. Ie It atrife? No 
Ie it lovely aud gentle and beautifil and pleasant and serene and Joyful? Oh. 
yer! ‘Therefore, my friends, I wish for peace on you and yours. ? 


(Ch. xix, xxv, liv.) 











Bleak Mouse. 837 


Mrs., formerly Mrs. Rachael. Wife of the Reverend 
Mr. Chadband; a stern, severe-looking, silent woman. (Ch. iii. 
xix, xxv, xxix, liv.) See Racnarr, Mus. 

Charley. See Necxetr, CHancorre. 

Chickweed. Ses SMaLtwexrp, BARTHOLOMEW. 

Clare, Ada. A ward of Mr. John Jarndyce, and a friend of 
Esther Summerson; afterwards wife of Richard Carstne. (Ch 
iii-vi, vili, ix, xili-xv, xvii, xviii, xxiii, xxiv, xxx, xxxi, xxv, 
xxxvii, xiii, xly, |, li, lix, lx-Ixii, Lxiv, xvii.) 

Coavinses. See Necker, Mr. 

Darby. A constable who accompanies Mr. Bucket to Tom-all- 
Alone's. (Ch. xxii.) 

Dedlock, Sir Leicester. Represontative of one of the great 
county families of England. (Ch. ii, vii, ix, xii, xvi, xviii, xxviii, 


xxix, xl, xii, xliii, xlviii, liii-Lvi, lviii, xiii, Ixvi.) 

Sir Leicester Dediock is only a baronet; but there is no mightier baronet than 
he, ‘His family ts as old as the hills, and Infinitely more respectable. He has 
‘8 gonoral opinion that the world might get on without hills, but would be done 
up without Dedlocks. . . . He is a gentieman of strict conscience, disdainful of 
all Iittleness and meanaesses, and ready, on tho shortest notion, to dle any 
desth you please to mention rather than give occasion for the least impeachment 
of his integrity. He is an honorable, obstinate, truthful, high-spirited, intensely 
prejadiced, perfectly unreasonable man. 

Bir Lelocster s twenty sears, full mensure, older than my Indy. He will 
never sce sixty-five again, nor perhaps aixty-six. nor yet sixty-seven. He has 
A twist of the gout now and then, and walks a little atifly. Ho Is of a worthy 
presence, with his tight gray halrand whiskers, his fine shirt-frill, his pure white 
‘walateoat, and his blue coat with bright buttons always buttoned. He is cere- 
monious, stately, moat polite on every oceasion to my lady, aud holds her per- 
sonal attractions in the highest estimation. His gailantry tomy lady, which 
has never changed since he courted her, 1s the one little touch of romantic 
fancy to him. 


Ledlock, Lady Honoria. Mother of Esther Summerson by 
Captain Hawdon, a gay rake, to whom she is engaged, but whom 
she never marries, She afterwards becomes the wife of Sir Lelees- 
ter Dedlock, who knows nothing of this portion of her history, 
but, fascinated by her beauty and wit, marries her solely for love, 
for she has not even * fami Being a proud and ambitions 
woman, she assumes ber new position with dignity, and holds it 
with cold composure, hiding in her heart, however, her disgraceful 
secret. She flies from home upon the eve of its discovery, and dies 
muserubly, from the combined effecty of shame, remorse, and ex- 

| posure, at the gate of a wretched graveyard, in which the father 

9 

















The Dickens Mictfonarp. 


of her child lies buried, in one of the worst and filthiest portions of 
London. (Ch. ii, vii, ix, xii, xvi, xvill, xxvill, xxix, xxxill, xxxvi, 
xxxix-xli, xlviii, liti-lvili.) 

Dedlock, Volumnia, A cousin of Sir Leicester Dedlock's, from 
whom sho has an annus) allowance, on which she lives slenderly at 
Bath, making occasional visits at the country-house of her patron. 
She is a young lady of sixty, of high standing in the city in which 
the resides, but a little dreaded elsewhere, in consequence of an 
indisereet profusion in the article of rouge, and persistency in an 
obsolete pearl necklace, like a rosary of little bird'seggs. (Ch. 
xxviii, x1, li, liv, Ivi, lviii, Levi.) 

Donny, Miss. Proprietor of a boarding-school, called Greenleaf, 
at Reading, where Esther Summerson spends six years, (Ch. tii) 

Flite, Miss, A halfcrazed little old woman, who is a suitor in 
Chancery, and attends every sitting of the court, expecting ju ig- 
ment in her favor. She tells Esther Sammerson, — 

“There %s a cruel attraction In the place: you can't leave it, And you must 
expect. ... have been there many years, and I havenotioed. It"s the Xace 
‘and Seal upon the table." 

‘What could they do, did she think? I mildly asked her. 

“Draw;" returned Miks Flite, —" draw people on, my dear; draw peace out 
of them, seme out of them, good looks out of them, good qualities out of 
them: I have felt them even drawing my rest away in the night. Cold and 
slittecing devils! . .. Let me see,"sald she. “E 71 tell you my own ease, 
Beforo they ever drew me, before I had over sven them, — what was it I used 
todo? Tambourine-playing? No; tambourwork, ¥ snd my sister worked at 
tambour-work. Our father and our brother had a builder's business. We all 
lived together; very rexpectably, my dear! First our futher was drawn,— 
slowly: home was drawn with him. In n few years he was m fleree, sour, 
angry bankrupt, without # kind word or a kind look for any one. Efe hal been 
60 different, Fite-Jarndyoe! He was drawn toa debtor's prison: there he died, 
Then our brother was drawn, swiftly, to drunkenness and rags and death 
‘Then my sister was drawn, Hash! Never ask towhat! Then I was fll, and 
lu misery, and heard, as Thad often heard before, that this was all the work of 
Chancery. When I got better, I went to look at the monster; und then I found 
‘out how it was, and I was drawn to atay there.” 

(Ch. fli, v, xi, xiv, xx, xxiv, xxxili, xxv, xlvi, xlvii, ], lx, Lev.) 

George. Ses Rouncewett, Grorae. 

Gridley, Mr., called “Tnx Man rom Snrorsntre.” A ruined 
suitor in Chancery, who periodically appears in court, and breaks 
vut into efforts to address the chancellor at the close of the day’s 
business, and can by no means be made to understand that the 





chancellor is legally ignorant of his existence, after making “ 


desolate for a quarter of a century. He gives Mr. Jarndyce the 
following sccount of his case :— 


' 











“Em one of two brothers. My father (@ farmer) made x will, and left his 
farm and stock, und 0 forth, to my mother, for her life. After my mother's 
Geath, all was to come to me, except a legacy of three hundred pounds, that T 
was then to pay my brother. My mother died; my brother, some time after 
‘wards, aimed his legacy. fend some of my relations rald that he had had 
fart of It already, in board and lodging and some other things. Now mind! 
‘That was the question, and nothing else. No one disputed the will; no one 
Aisputed any thing but whether part of that three hundred pounds lind beec 
already pald or not. To settle that question, my brother filing a bill, 1 wa 
‘obtigud to go into this nccarsed Chancery: E was forced there because the law 
forced me, and would let me go nowhere else. Seventeen people were made 
defendants to that almple ult. It first came on after two years. It was thes 
stopped for another two years, while the master (may his head rot off!) in- 
quired whether I was my father's son,—about which there was no dispute 
atall with any mortal creature. ‘Ho then found out that there were not defend- 
ots enough,—remember, there were only seventecn ax yet!—bat that we 
must have another who had beon left out, snd must bogin all over again. ‘Tha 
costs at that time—before the thing was begun — were three times the legacy. 
My brother would have given up the logacy, and Joyful, to escape more coats. 
‘My whole extate left to mo in that will of my father’s has gouo In costa, 
‘The suit, otill undecided, has fallen into rack and ruln wud despair with every 
thing else; and here I stand this day.” 


Badgered and worried and tortured by being knocked about 
from post to pillar and from pillar to post, he gets violent and 
desperate, threatens the lawyers, and pins the chancellor like a 
bull-dog, and is sent to the Fleet over and over again for contempt 
of court. At last, he becomes utterly discouraged and worn out, 
and suddenly breaks down, and dies in a shooting-gallery, where he 
is trying to hide from the officers.“ In the preface to “ Bleak House,” 
Mr. Dickens says of this character, — 

Every thing set forth in these pages concerning the Court of Chancery is 
substantially true, and within the truth. ‘The case of Gridley Is in no essen+ 
Walaltered from one of actual occurrence, made public by a disinterested person, 
who was professionally noquainted with the whole of the moustrous wrong 
from beginning to end. 

(Ch. i, xx, xxiv.) 

Grubble, W. Landlord of ©The Dedlock Arms,” « pleasant 
looking, stoutish, middle-aged man, who never seems to consider 
himself cosily dressed for his own fireside, withou: his hat and 
top-boots, but who never wears a coat except at church. (Ch. 
xxxvil.) 

wuppy, Mrs. Mother of William Guppy; & wayward old lady, in 
‘a large cap, with rather a red nose and rather an unsteady eye, but 
always smiling all over. (Ch. xxviii, Ixiv.) 

Guppy, William. A lawyer's clerk, in the employ of Kenge 


= 





BLO" Ede Dickens Wietlonary. 


and Carboy, Mr. Jarndyce’s solicitors; usually spoken of as“ the 
young man of the name of Guppy.” He conceives a passion for 
Esther Summerson, the heroine of the story, and declares his love 
(“ files a declaration,” as he phrases it) in a very amusing manner, 
Though refused, and greatly disappointed, he does not quits de- 
spair, and, on taking his leave, tells her, — 

“Tn caso you should think betior—at any tIme, however distant, that's ne 
consequence, for my feelings can never alter—of any thing I have said, part 
larly what might I not do,—3tr. William Guppy, eighty-seven Penton Place, 
or if removed or dead (of blighted hopes or any thing of that sort), care of 
‘Mrs. Guppy, three hundred and two Old Street Koad, will be sufficient.” 


At a later day, on receiving 9 business call from Miss Summer- 
son, and discovering, that, from the effects of a fover, she has lost 
her former beauty, he fancies that she has come to hold him to his 
proposal, and becomes, in consequence, very confused and appre 
hensive. Although she assures him that such is not the case, ho 
nevertheless asks her to make « full and explicit statement, before 
& witness, whose name and address be carefully notes with legal 
precision, that there has never been any engagement, or promise of 
marriage, between them. (Ch. iii, iv, vii, ix, xili, xix, xx, xxiv, 
xxix, xxii, xxxili, xxxvili, xxxix, xliy, liv, ly, lx, Ixili, Ixiv.) 

Guster (by some supposed to have been christened Avctsta). Maid- 
servant of the Snagbys; « lean young woman of some three or four 
and twenty, subject to fits. Taken originally from the work-house, 
sho is s0 afraid of being sent back there, that, except when she is 
found with her head in the pail, or the sink, or the copper, or the 
dinner, or any thing else that happens to be near her at the time of 
her seizure, she is always at work. (Ch. x, xi, xix, xxii, xxv, xlli, 
lix.) 

Gusher, Mr. A friend of Mrs. Pardigglo’s; a flabby gentleman, 
with a moist surface, and eyes so much too small for his moon of a 
fuce, that they seem to have been originally made for somebody else. 
(Ch. xv.) . 

Hawdon, Captain. A law-writer who lodges at Mr. Krook’s, and 
gives himself the name of Nemo; formerly a rakish military officer, 
and a lover of young lady (afterwards Lady Dedlock), who gives 
birth to a child (Esther Summerson), of which he is tho father. Ha 
dies in a garret, and is buried in the Potter's Field (set apart for 
strangers and paupers), at the gate of which Lady Dedlock is foun 
«ying lifeless, after her flight from her husband's house. (Ch. ¥,3% xi.) 










Bleak Mouse a4 


Hortense, Mademoiselle, Lady Dedlock’s waiting-woman, and 
the murderess of Mr. Tulkinghorn; intended as a portrait of a 
‘Mrs. Manning, a real murderess, (Ch. xii, xwili, xxii, xxiii, xlii, 
siliy, liv.) 

‘My indy's maid ts  Frenchwoman of two and thirty, from somewhere in the 
southern country about Avignon and Marseilles, —a large-eyed brown woman 
with black hatr, who would be handsome, but for soeriain feline mouth, and 
general uncomfortable tightness of face, rendering the jaws too eager, and the 
skull too prominent. There is romerhing indefinably keen and watchful about 

ohas @ watchful way of looking out-of the corners of ber 

her head, which could be pleasantly dispensed with, 

—capecially when she Is in an iil-humor, and near knives. 


Jarndyce, John, Guardian of Richard Carstone and Ada Clare, 
and friend and protector of Esther Summerson. He is an un- 
married man of about sixty, upright, hearty, and robust, with 
silvered iron-gray hair; a handsome, lively, quick face, full of 
change and motion ; pleasant eyes; a sudden, abrupt manner; and 
avery benevolent heart. He affects to be subject to fits of ill- 
humer, and has a habit of saying, when deceived or disappointed in 
any perton or matter, that “the wind is in the cast;” and of taking 
refuge in his library, which he calls “The Growlery.” Mr. 
Jarndyce is one of the parties in the celebrated Chancery suit 
of “Jarndyce and Jarndyce, 


“Of course, Esther," he aald, “ you don’t naderstand this Chancery busl- 
ness? 

And of course I shook my head. 

“Tdon't know who does,” he returned. “The lawyers have twisted It Intu 
such » state of bedeviiment, that the original merits of the case have long disap. 
peared from the face of the earth, It's about a will, and the trusts under x 
will,—or it was once. It’s about nothing but costs now. We are always 
appearing and disappearing and swearing and interrogating and filing 
croxe-iling and arguing and sealing and motioning and referring and report- 
fng, and revolving about the lord chancellor and all his satellites, and 
equitably waltzing ourselves off to dusty death, about costa. That's the great 
question, All the rest, by some extraordinary means, has melted away.!" 

Bat it was, sir,” sald I, to bring him back, for he began to rub his head, 
* about « will? + 

“Why, yes, {t was about a will when it was about any thing,” he returned, 
“ A certain Jarndyce, in an evil hour, made a great fortune, and made a great 
‘will, In the question how the trusts under that will are to be administered, the 
fortune left by the will {s squandered away. the legateos under the with are re- 
duced to such a miserable condition. that they would be sufficiently punished, It 
‘they had committed an enormous erime in having money left them and the will 
tteelf ls mado a dead letter. All through the deplorable causo, every thing that 
everybody in it, except one mam, knows already, Is referred to that only one 
‘xan who don't know it, to find out; ab througn the deplorable cause, everybody 
‘must have copies, over and over again, of every thing that has secumulnted 




















_— 








B42 Ede Dickens Wictlonarg. 


about it In the way of eart-loads of papers (or must pay for {em without having 
them, which Is the usal course; for nobody wants them); and mest go down 
tha saddle und up again Sheough wash wn tafernal Sovuty. dence af cost nad 
aa soos and sorraptlony es was ers, éryained CEA The WIN 
visions of m witeh's sabbath, ... And thus, through years and years, and 
lives and ilves, every thing goes on, constantly beginning over and over agai, 
and nothing ever ends. And we can't get out of tho suit on any torma; for we 
‘srv made partles to {t, and must be parties to it, whether we Uke ft or not. hut 
Mt wou't do to think of itt 
And Mr, Jarndyce does not allow himself to think of H, if he 
can possibly help doing so. With the warning example of so many 
of his kinsmen, living or dead, always before him, he refuses to 
enter the court, or have any thing whatever, of his own accord, 
to do with the case; but he deeply pitics and benevolently 
‘assists those of his relatives who bave thrown themselves into 
it, and make it the object of their lives, It is found, however, 
that the whole estate has been absorbed in cost; and thus the suit 
Ispses and melts entirely away. (Ch. i, lii, vi, vili, ix, xiii-xy, xvii, 
xviii, xxiii, xxiv, xxx, xxxi, xxxv—-xxxvil, xxxix, xllli-xly, xlvil, 
Llii, Ivi, 1x-Lsii, Ixiv, Ixy, Lxvil.) 

Jellyby, Caroline, called “Cappy,” Mrs. Jellyby’s eldest daugh- 
ter, and her amanuensis; a pretty and industrious, but sadly neg- 
lected and overworked girl. Becoming heartily disgusted and tired 
with copying never-ending letters to innumerable correspondents, 
concerning the welfare of her species, she resolves that she won't 
be a slave all her life, and accordingly marries Prince Turvey- 
drop, who makes her very happy. (Ch. iv, v, xiv, xviil, xxiii, 
xxx, xxxviii, |, Ixv, Levi.) 

jellyby, Mrs. A very pretty, very diminutive, plump woman, of 
from forty to fifty, with handeome eyes, though they have # curious 
habit of seeming to look a long way off. Sho is a lady of remarke 
able strength of character, who has devoted herself to an extensive 
variety of public subjects, at various times, and especially to the 
subject of Africa, with a view to the general cultivation of the cof- 
foo-berry, and the natives, and the happy settlement of a portion of 
our superabundant home-population in Borrioboola-Gha, on the left 
bank of the Niger. Her energies are o entirely devoted to this 
philanthropic project, that she finds no time to consider the happi+ 
ness or welfare of her own family; and the result is, that her chil. 
drer: grow up dirty, ignorant, and uncared-for; her house is disgrace 
fully cold, cheerless, and untidy; and rer husband becomes a 
dejected and miserable bankrupt. 





Bleak Mouse 343 


According to Mr. Hotten in his “Life of Dickens" (p. 214), 
“Miss Martineau came forward in her owr person to take the 
cap of Mrs. Jellyby, and to scold Mr. Dickens for his allusions 
to ‘blue-stockingism” and ‘ Borrioboola-Gha.’” (Ch. iv, v, xix, 
xxill, xxx, xxxviii, 1, xvii.) 

Jellyby, Mr. The husband of Mr. Jellyby ; a mild, bald, quiet 
gentleman in spectacles, who is completely merged in the more 
shining qualities of his wife. (Ch. iv, xiv, xxiii, xxx, xxviii, |, 
vii) 

Jellyby, “ Peepy” (so self-named). A neglected and unfortunate 
son of Mr. and Mrs. Jellyby. (Ch. iv, v, xiv, xxiil, xxx, xxxvill, 
Ixvii.) 

Jenny. Wife of a drunken brickmaker. (Ch. viii, xxii, xxi, 
xxxr, xvi, lvii.) 

Jo, called “Tovoney." <A street-crossing sweeper. A stranger 
who has died very suddenly has been seen speaking to Jo, who is 
brought before the coroner’s jury. 

Here he is, very muddy, very hoarse, very ragged. Now, boyt Bat stop 
minute, Cautlon. ‘This boy must be put through a few preliminary paces. 

‘Name, Jo, Nothing else, that he knows on, Don’t know thot everybody has 
two names. Never herd of such a think. Don’t kuow that Jo fs short for 
Jongor name, Thinks \t long enough for him. He don’t find no fwult with tt, 
‘Spell it? Ae can’t epell it. No father, no mother, no friends. Never been to 
school. What ’shome? Knows a broom is a broom, and knows it " wicked ta 
tella lie, Don't recollect who told kim about the broom, or about the Mo, but 
Knows both. Can't exactly say what'll be done to him arter he’s dead if he 
tolls a lie to the gentlemen here, but believes it ‘ll be something wery bad, to 
punish him, and serve him right. and soho "ll tell the truth. 


His evidence is set aside. Questioned apart, however, and pri- 
vately, Jo tells hia story with directness, and a touching and simple 


pathos. Ho knows— 


‘That the dead man was hooted and pursued abont the streets. That one cold 
winter night, when he [Jo], the boy, waa shivering In a doorway near ble cross 
Ing, the man turned to look at him, and came back, and having questioned him, 
and found that he had not a friend in the world, said, “ Neither have I, Not 
‘ono!® and gave him the price of a supper and a nights lodging. ‘That the max 





‘and how he bore cold and hunger, and whether he ever wished to die, 
strango questions. That when the man had no money, he wold 
tng, "I am na poor as you to-day, Jo:™ but that, when he had any, he had 
always (as the boy most henrtily believes) been glad to give him some. 

“He was wery good to me,” says the boy, wiping his eyes with hia wretched 
mataleere, “Wen I vee him a-layin’ so atritched out jist now, I wished 
‘bo could have heerd me tell him so, He wos wery good to me —he wos!” 








“a 








Bah She Dickens Mlctlonarg. 


‘The stranger is buried in the Potter's Ficld, unwept and unre 
gretted: no, not unregreited ; for— 

With the night comes a slouching figure thraagh the tunnel-court to the out 
Mido of the tron gate, It holds the gate with ite hands, and looks in betweex 
the bars; stands looking in for a little white. 

It thea, with an old broom it carries, softly sweeps the atep, and makes the 
archway cloan, It does #0 very busily and trimly; Iooks in again a little while; 
and so departs. 

Jo, is it thou? Well, well! Though » rejected witnoss, who “can't exaolly 
any" what will be done to him in greater hands than men’s, thou art not quite 
Inouter darknoss. There s something like a distant ray of light In thy muttered 
reason for thia:— 

“ He wos wery good to me—he wos!” 


Becoming accidentally and unfortunately possessed of information 
which involves the secret of Lady Dedlock, poor Jo is driven away 
from London by officers in the service of Mr. Tulkinghorn, and is 
always being told to “move on,” no matter where he may seek a 
resting-place. Worn out at last, he steals into the city, avoiding 
even those who would befriend him, but is finally found and taken 
in charge by a kind physician (Mr. Woodcourt), who knows a portion 
of his story; and in the illness which follows is properly eared for. 
Jo desires to be laid in the strangers” burying-ground, near his unknown 
friend. 


“He used fur to say to me, ‘Tam as poor as you to-lay, Jo,’ he set. Twante 
to tell Iiim that Fam ns poor as him now, and hare come there to be Inld slong 
with him. .. . Will you promise to haye me took there, str, and Inid along with 
bim?”. 

“Twill, Indeed.” 

“Thank’eo, sir! Thank’es, sir! They’ have to get the key of the gute 
afore they can take me in; forit’s allus locked. And there" a atep there, ax 1 
‘used to clean with my broom, It's turned wery dark, wir. In there any light 
scomin’?” 

“Te ts coming fast, Jo.” 

Past... . Tho rugged road {s very near its end. 

“Jo, my poor fellow!” 

“Thear you, alr, in the dark; but Pm a-gropin’, e-gropla’, Let me exteh hold 
€ your hand.” 

“Jc, can you say what f say?” 

“Dl any any think a8 you way, alr; for knows it " good.” 

“Our Farin.” 

# Our father !— yes, that ’s wery good, alr.” 

“ WHtCH ART IX HRAVEX.” 

“Artin heaven, Is the light comin’, air?” 

“This closoat hand. HALLOWED Re THY x30." 

« Hallowed be—thy "— 

‘The light Is come upon the dark benighted way. Deadt 

Dead, your majesty. Dead, my lords end gentlemen, Dead, right reves 





Bleak Mouse B15 


(7Gads and wrong reverends of every order. Dead, men and women, born with 
heavenly compassion fn your hearts. And dying thus around us every day. 
(Ch. xi, xvi, xix, xx, xxv, xxix, xxxii, xlvi, xlvii.) 

Jobling, Tony, otlerwixe Weevix. A friend of Mr. Guppy’s, 
and # law-writer for Mr. Snagsby. “He has the faded 
of a gentleman in embarrassed circumstances; even his light whis 
kers droop with something of a shabby air.” (Ch. vii, xx, xxxii, 
xxxiii, xxxix, liv, lv, Ixiv.) 

Kenge, Mr., called Conversation Kexor. Senior member of 
the firm of Kenge and Carboy, solicitors; a portly, important- 
Jooking gentleman dressed all in black, with a white cravat, lange 
gold watch seals, a pair of gold eye-glasses, and a large seal-ring 
upon his little finger. (Ch. til, iv, xili, xvii-xx, xxill, xxiv, xxxvil, 
xaxix, Ixli, Ixv.) 

He appeared to enjoy beyond every thing thesound of his own yolee. I could 
n't wonslerat that; for it was mellow and full, and gave grent ituportance to every 
word he uttered. Me Hstened to himself with obvious xatlsfaction, and some- 
tines gently beat time to his own music with his head, or rounded sentence 
‘with his hand, 


Krook, Mr, Proprietor of a rag-and-bottleahop, and dealer in 
marine stores, bones, kitchen-stuff, waste-paper, &o,; landlord to 
Mies Flite and Captain Hawdon; and only brother to Mrs. Small- 
weed. He is an unmarried man, old, eccentric, and much given to 
the use of intoxicating drinks. In person ho is short, cadaverous, 
and withered ; with his head sunk sideways between his shoulders, 
and the breath issuing in visible smoke from his mouth, as if he 
were on fire within. His only companion is a large gray cat, of a 
fierce disposition, which is accustomed to perch on nis shoulder. 
With this man, Mr. Weevle (alias Jobling) has an appointment 
for twelve o'clock on acertain night. Going into the room at the 
hour agreed upon, he finds it full of smoke, the window-panes and 
furniture covered with a dark, greasy deposit, more of which is dis- 
covered lying in a small heap of ashes on the floor befure the fire. 
The explanation Is, that Krook has perished a victim to spontaneous 
combustion. 

‘This incident excited snuch controversy at the time of the publi 
cation of “ Bleak House ,” the possbility of spontaneous combustion 
being vehemently denied by Mr. G. H, Lewes and others. In his 
preface, Mr. Dickens maintains his ground, and brings forward a 
umber of “ notable facts” in support uf his position, The dispute, 





a 


~ 


346 Ebe Dickens Mictlonary. 


however, as has been justly observed, “is not as Lo the facts, but me 
to their explanation.” Persons have undoubtedly been burned to 
death under ciroumstances not well sceounted for; but that the 
living human body ever becomes ignited, and burns like a candle, 
or smoulders away, until nothing but ashes or charcoal is left, is a 
theory, which —lowever attractive it may be to the popular mind — 
would be admitted by no scientific man at the present day, whose 
opinion is entitled to the slightest respect. (Ch. v, x, xi, aly, xixy 
xx, xxix, xxxii) 

Lig. A brutal brickmaker’s wife. (Ch. viii, xxii, xxxi, xlvi, Ivii.) 

Man from Shropshire, The. See Gruptey, Mr. 

Melvilleson, Miss M. A “noted siren,” or vocalist, advertised 
under that name, though she has been married a year and a half, 
and has her baby clandestinely conveyed to the Sols Arms every 
night to receive its natural nourishment during the entertainments. 
(Ch. xxsii, xxxiii, xxix.) 

Meroury. A footman in the service of Sir Leicester Dedlock. 
(Ch. ii, xvi, xxix, xxiii, xl, xlviil, liii, liv.) 

Mooney, A beadle. (Ch. xi.) 

Neckett, Charlotte, called Cuantey. Elder daughter of Mr. 
Noekett, an officer, “She is a womanly, self-reliant girl of about 
thirteen or fourteen, who, after the death of her father, goes out to 
work to earn a livelihood for herself and a younger brother and 
sister. 

She is visited by Mr. Jarndyce; and the following conversation 
ensues: — 

“Do you often go out?” 

“As often as I can,” sald Charley, opening her eyes, and smiling; “because 
of earning sixpences and shillings.” 

* And do you always lock the bables up wher you go out ?™ 

“To keep ‘em safe, sir; don't you see?” sald Charley. * Mrs. Biimber comes 
up now and then; and Mr. Gridley comes up sometimes; and perhaps TI ean run 
in sometimes, and they ean play,you know; and Tom aln’t afraid of being locked 
up. Are you, Tom?” 

+ No—0," aald Tom stoutly. 

“When it comes on dark, the Jamps are Nghted down In the court, and 
‘hey shine up here qnite bright, — almost quite bright; don’t they, Tom?” 

* Yes, Charley,” sald Tom, “ almost quite bright.” 

“Then he “eas good as gold,” anid the little ereature oh, tn auch w motherly 
womanly way! “And, when Emma's tired, be puts her to bed; and, when bes 
tired, he goes to bed himself; and when I come home and Ij 
aod has a bit of supper, he sits up again, and has it with me, Don't you 
Tom?” 

«Ob, yes: Charley,” said Tom. “ That i dot” 

















Bleak Mouse. But 


And eithor in this glimpse of the great pleasure of his life, or In gratitude 
and leve for Charley, who was all ts all to him, he laid his face among the 
scanty folds of her frock, and passed from laughing into crying. 

(Oh. xv, xxi, xxiii, xxx, xxxi, xxxy-xxxvii, xliv, xly, li, bei, Lxil, 

Ixiv, Ixvii.) 

Neckett, Emma. Infant daughter of Mr. Neckett. (Ch. xv, 
xxiii, Ixvii.) 

Neckett, Mr., called Coavinsxs. A sheriff’s officer. (Ch. vi, xv.) 

Neckett, Tom. Mr, Neckett’s only son; brother to “ Chailey” 
and Emma. (Ch xv, xxiii, Lxvii.) 

Nemo. See Hawpon, Carrars, 

Pardiggle, Mr. O. A., F. B.S. Husband of Mrs, Pardiggle; 
an obstinate-looking man, with a large waistcoat and stubbly hair, 
always talking in a loud bass voice about his mite, or Mra. Pardig- 
gle’s mite, or their five boys’ mites. (Ch. viii, xxx.) 

Pardiggle, Mrs. One of those charitable people who do little 
and make a great deal of noise. She is a School lady, a Visiting 
lady, a Reading lady, a Distributing Indy, and on the Social Linen 
Box Committee, and many general committees, (Ch. vill, xv, xxx.) 

Pardiggle, Alfred. Youngest son of Mr. and Mrs. Pardiggle, 
aged five years. He voluntarily enrolls himself in the “Infant 
Bonds of Joy,” and is pledged never, through life, to use tobacco 
in any form. (Ch. viii.) 

Pardigglo, Egbert. Eldest son of Mr. and Mrs. Pandiggle, nged 
twelve years. He sends out. his pocket-money, to the amount of 
five and threepence, to the Tockahoopo Indians. (Ch. viii.) 

Pardiggle, Felix. Fourth son of Mr. and Mrs. Pardiggle, aged 
seven years; contributor of eightpence to the “Superannuated 
Widows.” (Ch. vili,) 

Pardiggle, Francis. Third son of Mr. and Mrs. Pardiggle, aged 
nine years; a contributor of one and sixpence halfpenny to the 
© Great National Smithers Testimonial.” (Ch. viii.) 

Pardiggle, Oswald. Second son of Mr. and Mrs. Pardiggle, 
aged ten and a half He gives two and ninepence to the “ Great 
National Smithers Testimonial,” (Ch, viii.) 

Perkins, Mrs, An inquisitive woman living near the Sol’s Arins; 
neighbor to Mr. Krook. (Ch, xi, xx, xxxii, xxxili, xxix.) 

Piper, Mrs. A woman who lives near Krook’s rag-and-bottle 
shop, and who leads the court. (Ch. xi, xx, xxxii, xxiii, xxxix.} 

Priscilla, Mrs. Jellrby’s servant-girl; “always drinking.” (Ch. iv 

) a 


- «7 








BS Zhe Dickens BDictlonary. 


Quale, Mr. A friend of Mrs. Jellyby’s; a loquacious young man 
with large shining knobs for temples, and his hair all brushed to 
the back of his head. He is a philanthropist, and has a project for 
teaching the coffee colonists of Borrioboola-Gha to teach the na- 
tives to turn pianoforte-legs, and establish an export trade. (Ch. 
iv, v, xv, xxiib.) 

Rachael, Mrs. Servant to Miss Barbary; afterwards the wife of 
the Reverend Mr. Chadband. 

Rosa. Lady Dedlock’s maid; « dark-haired, shy village beauty, 
betrothed to Watt Rouncewell. (Ch. vii, xii, xvi, xvill, xxvili, xl, 
xlviii, Ixiii.) 

Rouncewell, Mrs, Sir Leicester Dedlock’s housekeeper at Ches- 
ney Wold; a fine old lady, handsome, stately, and wonderfully 
neat, (Ch. vii, xii, xvi, xxvili, xxiv, x1, lii, lv, lvi, lviil) 

Rouncewell, Mr. Her son; an lronmaster; father of Watt 
Rouncewell. (Ch. vii, xxvill, xl, xlvili, Ixiil) 

Rouncewell, George, called Mr. Gnorcr. Another son; a wild 
young lad, who enlists as a soldier, and afterwards becomes keoper 
of a shooting-gallery in London. (Ch. vil, xxi, xxlv, xxvi, xxvil, 
xxxiy, xlvii, xlix, lii, Iv, lvi, viii, Ixiii, Ixvi) 

Rouncewell, Watt. Her grandson, betrothed to Rosa. (Ch 
vii, xii, xviii, xxviii, xl, xlviii, Lxiii.) 

Shropshire, The Man from. See Gnipiey, Mr. 

Skimpole, Arethusa. Mr. Skimpole’s blue-eyed “Beauty” 
daughter, who plays and sings odds and ends, like her father. 
(Ch. xliii.) 

Skimpole, Harold. A protégé of Mr. John Jarndyce’s; = sen- 
timentalist, brilliant, vivacious, and engaging, but thoroughly selfish 
and unprincipled; @ genial caricature—so far as mere external 
peculiarities and mannerisms are concerned —of Leigh Hunt. Tho 
likeness was instantly recognized; and Mr. Dickens, while admit- 
ting that he had “ yielded to the temptation of too often making 
the character speak like his old friend,” felt himself called upon 
to declare, that “he no more thought, God forgive him! that the 
admired original would ever be charged with the Imaginary vices 
of the fictitious creature than he has himself ever thought of char 
ging the blood of Desdemona and Othello on the innocent Academy 
model who sat for Iago’s leg in the picture” (Oh. ty, vill, ix, 
xy, xviii, xxxi, xxxvii, xliii, xlvi, lvii, Lxi.) 

‘Ue was a little bright creature, with a rather large head, but a delicaie face 
‘and a sweet voice; and there was a perfect charm in him. All he said was #@ 

















HAROLD SKIMPOLE, 


‘Bleak Mouse 349 


ee Nem effort, and spontanoous, and was sald with sus a captivating gayety, 
that ft was fascinating to hew him talk. .. . He had more of theppearanee, in 
all respects, of a damaged young man than a well-preserved <lderly one, 
‘Thore was an easy negligence tn his manner, and even in bis dress (his alr 
carclessly disposed, and his neokerobfef loose and flowing. as I have seen artists 
faint thelr own portraits), which T could not separate from the ldeaof a roman- 
te youth who had undergone some unique process of depreciation. 

Mr. Skimpole is constantly getting into debt, and as constantly 
being helped out by somebody whom he never seriously thanks, 
He says of himself, — 

“Tam constantly betng balled out, like a boat; or pald off, like # ship # com- 
pany. Somebody always does \t forme, J can't do It, you know, for I never 
haye any money; but Somebody does it. I get out by Somebody's means. I 
‘am not like the starling: I get out. If you were to ask me who Somebody Is, 
upon my word, I could n't tall you, Let ws drink to Somebody. God bless 
him” 





‘Mr, Skimpole is arrested for debt. He turns the matter over to 
his friends, completely washing his hands of the entire affair, and 
smiles benevolently on them as they pay him out. His furniture is 
seized. He remonstrates with his landlord, informing him that the 
articles are not paid for, and that his friend Jarndyce will have to 
suffer if they are taken. No attention being paid to this, he is 
greatly amused at “the oddity of the thing,” not understandin, 
how a man can wish to pay himself “at another man’s expense.” 
On another occasion he tells Mr. Jarndyce, — 


“My butcher aays to mo, he wants that little bill. Tt "ea part of the aneon- 
‘tclous poetry of the man’s nature, that he always calla Its * bill to make 
the payment appear easy to both of us. I reply to the buteher, * My good friend, 
If you knew it, you are paid. You have n’t had the trouble of coming to ask for 
the little bill, You are paid. I mean it.’” 

But suppose,” says [Mr. Jarndyoe,} langhing, 
the bill instead of providing tt 

My dear Jarndyoe,” he returned, “you surprise me, You takethe bateher'« 
position. A butcher I once dealt with occupled that rery ground. Says he, 
‘Str, why did you eat spring-iamb at elghteen-pence a pound??—* Why did 
¢at spring-lamb at elghteen-pencea pound, my honest friend ?\— sald, naturally 
amazed by the question, ‘1 like springlamb,’ This was so fur conrincing, 
# Well, alr,’ says ho, ‘I wish {had meant the lamb as you mean the money !*— 
‘My good follow, sald f, ‘pray let us reason like intellectual beings. How 
‘could that be? It was impossible, You Jund got the lamb: Ihave not got the 
money. You could n't really mean the lamb without sending St inj whorens 1 
an snd do really mean the money without paying it.’ He had not a word 
‘There was an end of the subject.” 


Bkimpole, Mrs. Wife o” Harold Skimpole; a delicate, high 
nosed invalid, suffering under a compiication of disorders. (Ch 
xu.) 











je had meant tho meat in 

















eal oneal a 





350 be Dickens Dict.onary. 


Skimpole, Kitty. Mr. Skimpole's * Comedy” daughter, who 
sings a little, but don’t play. (Ch. xliti,) 

Skimpole, Laura. Mr. Skimpolo’s “ Sentiment” daughter, who 
plays a little, but don’t sing. (Ch. xliiL) 

Smallweed, Bartholomew, jocularly called Smatt and Cuick 
Weep, to express a fledgling, as it were. Grandson of Mr. and 
Mrs. Smallweed, twin-brother of Judy, and friend of Mr. William 
Guppy, from whom he sponges dinners as often as he can. (Ch. 
xx, xxi, xxiii, xxix, ly, Lxili-) 

‘He Is a town-made article, of small stature and weazen features, bat may 68 
pereelved from a considerable distance by means of his very tall bnt, ‘To be: 
‘come a Guppy Is tho object of his ambition, Ile dresses at that gentleman (by 
‘whom be is patronized), talks at him, walks ot him, founds himself entirely on 
Lim. '.. . Hels aweird changefing, towhom years are nothing. Ee stands pre- 
coclauily ponsessod by centuries of owllih wisdom. If he ever Iay in a eradie, ft 
scems as {f he must have lain there in w tall-cont. THe hasan old, old eye; . . . 
and he drinks and smokes in a monkeylah way; and tis neck ts stlif tn his col- 
Jar; and ho fs never to be taken n; and he knows all about it, whatever It is. 

Smallweed, Grandfather. An old man who has been in the 
“discounting profession,” but has become superannuated, and nearly 
helpless. His mind, however, is unimpaired, and still holds, as well 
asit ever did, the first four rules of arithmetic, and a certain small 
collection of the hardest facts. His favorite amusement is to throw 
at the head of his venerable partner a spare cushion, with which he 

J is provided, whenever she makes an allusion to money,— a subject 
on which he is particularly sensitive. The exertion this requires 
has the effect of always throwing him back into his chair like a 
broken puppet, and makes it necessary that he should undergo the 
two operations, at the hands of his grand-daughter, of being shaken 
up like a great bottle, and poked and punched like a great bolster. 
(Ch. xxi, xxvi, xxvii, xxxiii, xxiv, liv, lv, Lxifi.) 

Smallweed, Grandmother. His wife; so far fallen into a 
childish state as to have regained such infantine graces as a total 
want of observation, memory, understanding and interest, and an 
eternal disposition to fall asleep over the the fire, andinto it, (Ch. 
xxi, xxvi, xxvii, xxxill, xxxiv, lxiii.) 

Smallweed, Judy. Grand-daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Smallweed, 
and twin-sister of Bartholomew. She is so indubitably his sister 
that the two kneaded into one would hardly make 3 young person 
of average proportions. (Ch. xxi, xvi, xxvii, xxiii, xxxly, Ixilij} 

Snagsby, Mr. A law-stationer in Cook's Court, Cursitor Street 
4 mild, bald, timid maa, tending to meekness and obesity, with @ 





e BSL 


shining bead and a scrubby clump of black hair sticking out at the 
back. Being a timid man, he is accustomed to cough with a varl 
ety of expressions, and so to save words. (Ch. x, xi, xix, xx, xxii, 
xxv, xxxiii, xlii, xlvii, liv, lix.) 

Bnagsby, Mrs. ; a short shrewish woman, something too 
violently compressed about the waist, and with a sharp noee, like a 
sharp autumn evening, inclining to be frosty towards the erd. 
(Ch. x, xi. xix, xx, xxii, xxv, xxxili, xlil, xvlii, liv, lix.) 


‘Mr. and Mrs. Sungsby are not only one bone and one flesh, but, to the neigh: 
‘Dore thinking, one volce too. ‘That voice appearing to proceed from Mre, 
Suageby alone, ts heard in Cook's Court very often, . . » Mr, Snageby refers 
every thing not {n the practical mysteries of the business to Mrs. Snagiby. Se 
‘manages the money, reproaches the tax-gatherers, appolota the times ang 
places of devotion on Sundays, loenses Mr. Snagaby's entertainments, and wo 
knowledges no responsibility as to what sbe thinks fit to providefordinner. . . « 
Rumor, always flying, batlike. about Cook's Court, and skimming tn and out at 
everybody's windows, does ray that Mrs. Snagsby ts Jealous and Inquisitive; 
nd that Cr. Suagsby fs sometimes worried out of house wnd home; and that, if 
he had the spirit of a mouse, be would n't stand it. 


Bquod, Phil. A man employed in Mr. Georgo’s shooting-gallery. 


He is a little man, with a face all crushed together, who appears, from s cer 
tain bine and speckled appearance that one of his checks presents, to have been 
blown up, in the way of business, at some odd time or times, . « . On the apro- 
led side of his fuce he has no eyebrow, and on the other side he has m bushy 
black one; which want of uniformity gives him # very singular and rather sinks- 
tor appearance. Every thing seems to have happoned to his hands that could 
possibly take place, consistently with the retention of ull the fingers; for they 
‘are notched and seamed, and crumpled all over. . . . He has a carious way of 
limping round the gallery with bis shoulder against the wall, and tacking off mt 
objects he wants to lay hold of, instead of going straight to them, which has 
Toft & wmear all round the four walls, conventionally called “ Phil's mark.” 


(Ch. xxi, xxiv, xxvi, xxxiv, xlvii, lvi, Ixvi.) 

Stables, The Honorable Bob. Cousin to Sir Leicester Ded- 
lock. (Ch. ii, xxviii, xl, Iviii.) 

Summerson, Hsther. Protégée of Mr. Jarndyce; afterwards 
the wife of Allan Woodcourt. She is the narrator of a part of the 
story, and is represented as a prudent, wise little body, a notable 
house-wife, a self-denying friend, and a universal favorite. Sha 
proves to be an illegitimate daughter of Lady Dedlock and Captain 
Hawdon. According to Doctor Shelton Mackenzie (Life of Dick« 
ens, p. 203), this character is supposed to have been drawn from real 
aife, and to have been intended as a portrait of Miss Sophia Isclin, 
author of a volume of poms puvlished in 1847. (Ch. ili-vi, viii, 











Bou ede Dickens Dictlonarg. 


ix, xiil-xy, xvil-xix, xxiii, xxiv, xxix—xxxi, xxxv—xxxviil, xlili<xlv 
xlvii, tii, liv, Ivi, Iii, lix-Lxy, Levii.) 

Swills, Little. A red-faced combe vocalist engaged at the Har 
monic meetings at the Sol's Arms. (Ch. xi, xix, xxxil, xxxlih, 
‘Xxxix,) 

Tangle, Mr, A lawyer, who knows more about the case of Jan 
dyce and Jarndyce than anybody, and is supposed never to have 
read any thing elee since he left school. (Ch. i.) 

Thomas. Sir Leicester Dedlock’s groom. (Ch. xl.) 

Toughey. See Jo. 

Tulkinghorn, Mr. An attorncy-at-law, and a solicitor of the 
Court of Chancery, who ia the legal adviser of Sir Leloester 
Dedlock. 

‘The old gentleman is rusty to look at, but fx reputed to have made good thrift 
out of aristocratic marringe-settiements and aristocratic wills, and to be very 
rich. He Is surrounded by a mysterious halo of family confidences, of which 
ho 1s known to bo the silent deposltary. . . . Hole of whnt ts called the old 
school, —a phraso generally meaning any school that seems never to have been 
young,—and wears knee-breeches tied with ribbons, and gaiters or stockings, 
‘One peculiarity of his black clothes and of his black stockings, be they silk or 
‘worsted, Is, that they never shine. Mute, close, irresponsive to any glancing 
light, his dress [+ like himself. He never converses when not professionally 
consulted, He is found sometimes, speechioxs, but quite at home, at corners of 
dinnemtables in great country:houses, and near doors of drawing-rooms, eon- 
‘cerning which the fashionable intelligence is eloquent, where everybody knows 
‘him, and where half the prerage stops to say, “Mow do you do, Mr. Tulking- 
horn?” He reoslves these salutations with gravity, and buries them along with 
the rest of hilt knowledge. 

Becoming acquainted with the early history of Lady Ded- 
lock, he quietly informs her of the fact, and of his intention to 
reveal it to her husband, which causes her to flee from home, and 
results in her death. Shortly after this disclosure, he is murdered 
in his room by a French waiting-maid, whom he has made use of to’ 
discover certain family secrets, and whom he refuses to reward 
to the amount she desires. (Ch. ii, vii, x-xii, xv, xvi, xxil, xxiv) 
xxvii, xxix, xxxiil, xxiv, xxxvi, xl—xlii, xliv, xlvii, xlvill.) 

lurveydrop, Mr, “A very gentlemanly man, celebrated almost 
everywhere for his deportment.” Mr. Hotten (* Charles Dickens: 
‘The Story of his Life,” p, 214) says that this character “ was always 
belioved to portray ‘the first gentleman in Europe,’ his sacred 
Majesty King George the Fourth;” but, according to Doctor Shel- 
ton Mackenzie (“Life of Dickens,” p. 206), “ Some friends of Mr. 
Jobn Dickens thought they recognized certain of his characteristics, 














MR. TURVEVDROP AND HIS SON. 


Bleak Mouse. 358 


as regarded deportment, in the sketch of that eminent professor, 
Mr. Turveydrop." (Ch. xiv, xxiii, xxx, xxviii 1, vii.) 


He was a fat old gentleman with a false complexion, false teoth, false whis- 
kere, anda wig. Mo bad a fur oollar, and he had a padded breast to his coat, 
which only wanted o star, or a broad blue ribbon, to be complete. He was 
pinched In, and swelled out, and got up, and strapped down, ax much ms he 
could possibly bear, Ifo bad such m necksloth on (puffing his yery eyes out of 
their natural shape), and his chia and even his cars ao sunk tnto It, that it 
seemed as though he must inevitably double up, if It were cast loose. Me had 
under his arm o hnt of grent size and welght, shelving downward from the 
¢rown to the brim; and In his hand » patr of white gloves, with which be 
flapped it, ns he stood poised on one leg, in m high-shouldered, round-elbowed 
state of elegance not to be surpassed. He had a cane, he bad an eyeglass, he 
had rings, he had wristbands, he had every thing but any touch of nature. Ite 
‘was not lie youth, he was not like age: he was like nothing in the world but « 
model of deporte 

He had married w mook little danclng-mistress, with « tolerable connection 
(having never in his life before doue uny thing but deport himself), and had 
‘worked her to death, or had, at the best, suifered her to work herself to death, 
to maintain him in those expensos which were indispensable to hile position. 
At once to exhibit his Deportment to the best models, und to keep the best 
models constantly before himeelf, he had found it necessary to frequent all 
publio pinces of fashionable and lounging resort, tobe seen at Brighton and 
elsewhere at fashionable times, and to lead an idle life Iu the very best clothes. 
‘To enable im to do this, tho affectionate little dancing-miatress had tolled and 
Jubored, and would have tolled and labored to that hour, if her strength had 
lasted so tong. For, . . . fu spite of the man's absorbing selfishness, his wife 
{overpowered by his Deportment) had, to the last, beliered tn him, and had on 
her death-bed, In the most moving terms, confided him to thelr won ns one who 
hnd an inextinguishable claim upon him, and whom he could never regurd with 
too much pride and deference, ‘The son, inheriting his mother's bellef, and 
having the Deportment always before him, had lived and grown In the samo 
faith, and now, at thirty years of age, worked for his futher twelve hours a 
day, and looked up to him with veneration on the old imaginary planacle, 


Turveydrop, Prince. His son; so named in remembrance of the 
Prince Rogent, whom Mr. Turveydrop the elder adored on account 
of his deportment. He is a little blue-eyed fair man, of youthful 
appearance, with flaxen hair parted in the middle, and curling at 
the ends all round his head. He marries Miss Caddy Jellyby. 
(Ch. xiv, xvii, xxiii, xxx, xxxviii, |, lvii.) 

Vholes, Mr. Richard Carstone’s solicitor; a man who is always 
“putting his shoulder to the wheel,” without any visible results, 
and is continually referring to the fact that he is a widower, with 
three daughters and an aged father in the Vale of Taunton, 
who are dependent on him for their support. (Ch. xxxvii, xxix, 
xly, li, lxi, Ixii, Ixy.) 

™ 
























Bot Tbe Vickene Wietlonary. 


[He was} a eallow man, with plnchod lips that looked as if they 
red eruption here and there upon his face, tail and thin, about fifty years of age, 
higt-shoulderod snd stooping. Dressed tn black, black-glored, and buttoned 
to the chin, there was nothing #0 remarkable in hin as lifeless manner and s 
slow, faxed way ho had of looking. » « « 

Weevle, Mr. Ste Jontixo, Tory. 

Wisk, Miss. A ftiend of Mrs. Jellyby’s, betrothed to Mr, Quale. 
Her “ mission” is to show the world that woman's mission is man's 
mission, and that the only genuine mission of both man and 
woman is to be always moving declaratory resolutions about things 
in general at public meetings. (Ch. xxx.) 

‘Woodcourt, Allan, A young surgeon, who afterwards marries 
Esther Summerson. (Ch, xi, xiii, xiv, xvii, xxx, xxxy, xlvi, xlvii, 
L-lil, lix-Ixi, Ixiv, Ixy, Lxvil.) 

‘Woodcourt, Mrs. His mother; a handsome old lady, small, 
sharp, upright, and trim, with bright black eyes; very proud of her 
descent from an illustrious Welsh ancestor, named Morgan-ap-Ker 
vig. (Ch. xvii, xxx, Lx, lxii, Lxiv.) 





Bleak Mouse, 355 


PRINCIPAL INCIDENTS. 


Cuarres L. The High Court of Chancery in session, with the galt of Jarndyce and 
Tamdyce; the chancellor postpones the hearing. —11, Mr. Tulkingborn reports some new 
procoodings in the ease to Sir Leicester and Lady Dedlock ; Lady Dediock asks who copted 
the adidavit bereads. she swoons —IIt. Esther Summerson narrates the history of her 
shildbood, unde: ths ware of her godmother: she ts Informed of the staln upon her birth; 
she is Introduced to Mr. Kengo; Mise Narbary dios, and %sther learns she was har aunt 
31r, Jamdyee's offer to educate Esther; on her Journey to Rending, Eather is roughly bo 
friondad by a gentiotnan in the coach; aberpends tx years in Mixw Donny"s establishment, 
‘wham Mr. Jarndyoe summons her to London, as a companion for his ward; Esther meets 
Ada Claro and Richard Carstone, and they go before the chancellors Mim Flite bestows 
‘hor bessing-—I¥. Kether, Ada, and Richard go to Mrs: Jellyby"s to speod tho night, and. 
find het very busy with African matters; Caddy Jellyby complains to Esther of the Afti« 
‘ean business, and falls asleep with hor head on Esther's lap.—V. The young people en- 
eounter Stina Fiite again, who invites them to her lodging, over Mr. Krook's, to whom sho 
Introducos them Mr. Krook relates the story of Tom Jarndyce and his suicide: Miss Filte 
shows her birds; old Krook surprises Esthor by writing out “Jarndyee™ and Meak 
Mouse,” lottor ty letter, — VI. On the road to Bleak House the young people receive notes 
of welcome from Mr. Jarndyce; Kather recognizes In Me. Jarndyce her stage-coach friend 
of six years bofuros description of Bleak Houso; Esther receives the housekeoping keyss 
Mr. Sitmpole t» presented, and his character described; Skimpote ts arrested for debt, ane 
released by Esther and Richard, who pay the debt; Mr, Jarndyce cautions therm agwinet 
Mr, Skimpole’s weaknomes; Mr, Jarndyoe experiences suddon changes in the wind. — VET. 
Airs. Rouncewell, housckeoper at Chemey Wold, conversing with her grandson, receives 
‘call om Mr. Guppy, who desires to aco the house; ho knows Lady Dedlock’s ploture, 
but don't know how he knows it: Mra. Rouncewell relates to her grandson and Rosa the 
story of the Ghost’ Walk. —VIIL. Mr. Skimpole discourses on the bees Sr. Jarndyoe 
tatroduces Esther to the Grumlery, and explains the Cuancery business; Esther finds her 
Advice sought in overy thingy Mrs. Pardigglo calla with hier fumily; she explaine her male 
‘ion and her energy tn Ht; Esther and Ada accompany Mra Pardiggic on her vialt to the 
brickmaker's; Jonny's infant dios: sympathy of Jenny's friend, and Esther and Ada. — 
IX. Richard's reasoning to prove that he makes money; Me. Boythorn arrives ot Bleak 
Mour0y Inls account of his lawantt with Str Leicester Dediock; Mtr. Guppy ealls upon Mr. 
Boythorn on busitvess from Kenge and Carboy ; he asks to sco Esther alone, and “makes 
‘an offer,”" which kho declines —X. Mr. Tulkinghorn calls oo Mr. Snagsby to ascertain 
‘who copied an artidavit In Jarndyce and Jarndyce; Mr, Shageby conducts him to Krook"s 
house, where the copyiat lodges.—XI- Gaining admission to ble room, Mr, Tulkinghorn 
finis Lith ead from an overdose of opium: Br, Suagsby relates what he knows of the 
decease!) Mr. Tulkinghorn suggests a search for papers, but none are found; the coroner 
‘bots axide Jo's evidence; Jo watches the dead man’s grave.—XIT. Sir Leleestorand Lady 
Dedlock, on the oad home from Paris, receive Mr. Tulkinghorn's message that be bad 
teen the person who copled the affidavit: Lady Dediock takes notioe of Rosa, which gives 
Hortense offencor Mr. Tulkingtiom arrives at Cheaney Wold, and gives them an account 
of tho dead copylat.— XIII. Mehard, choosing a profession, deoldes to become a surpeon t 
‘Mr, Kenge recommends Mr. Hayham Badger, and Richard te placed with him: Esther is 
‘worried by Mr. Guppy's attentions: Me, Jarndyce and his wards dino #t Mr. Hayhsin 
Badger's: Ada confides to Kather her engagement to Wichard; and they all consult 3M, 
Jarndyce. —X1Y. Michard begins w trast to the success of the wait In Chancerys Caddy 
‘ellyby ealis upon Esther and Ada; sho tnforme them of her enpagoment; Eather accom 
panies her to Mr. Turveydrop's academy, aud is Inteoduced to Prince Turveydrop; Mr. 
‘Tarveydrop, senior, exhibits hie Depo-tment;"* Caddy ahows w desire to learn house 
Reeping: going to Mist Fiite’s room v9 meet Mr. Jamndyoo ard Ada, Esther learns of the 
aicide of Se. Krook's lodgers Br. Allan Woodeourt appears aa Mina Fite's medical at 
Fite recelves a pension from an waikurwn sonroe; Krook repeata the 
irs his sitempts to teach biel tread. —3¥. Me, Sklspole's method 






































856 The Bichens Mictfonarp. 


‘of paying his debte; he informs Eather of the death of * Cosvimes;"' the party vist Bell 
‘ant to find Neokett's children; how Charley takes care of her brother wnd alstere Mire. 
UUnder explains the situation of the family; Mr.Gridiey's suit in Equity: Me. Bktmpole's 
‘commentary on this state of things. —X¥L Jo, sweeping hls crenaing, is accented by a 
lady, to whom, st her request, he polnts out the places associated with the sulcid, sud te 
rewarded with a sovereign. XVIT. Richart becomes languld fn tho profeaion be bas 
chosen; he argues.to Esther that {tis of Little consequanoe, being only « kind of probation 
untlh their suit Ix decided; hie thinks * the law is the boy for him; Mr. Jamdyoe telle 
Katherall he knows of her eazly history 1 Mr. Woodcourt comos to take leave before gel 
to India; Caddy Jellyby beings the lowers left by Mr. Woodcourt for Rather. —XVIUe 
Richard shows his careless disposition ta money-matters; Mr. Skimpote’s kdes of property s 
they vialt Mr. Boythorn, and reosire a characterlatic welcome; Esther experienoee poowe 
Uar emotions on seeing Lady Dedlock {n ehurch: the same feelings return on meeting her 
tn a lodge where they take shelter from the ral; how th pride of Hortense wna wounded, 
and how she revenged heewelf—XIX. Mr.and Mra. Chadband take tea with the tnagabya; 
Mr. Chadband discourses; @ constable brings Jo to Mr. Snagrby's, beosuse he won't 
“move on;"* Myr, Guppy appears on tho scene; Jo tells the story of the lady and the 
sovereigns Mr. Chadtand improves the occasion, and Jo "moves on.""—XX, Me. Guppy 
invites his friends Smallweed and Jobling to dine with him; Mr. Gappy proposes to Job 
ling to apply for copying to Snagaby, and algo to take the vacant lodgings at Krook'as Bie 
‘Guppy presente his friend to Krook, under the tame of Weevle, and he takes pomevaion 
of the room, =XXT. The Smallweed family introduced, Mr. George calls to pay the interest 
money on & loan from Mr. Smallweed's friend in the elty ;"t thelr talk concerning Cap- 
tain Hawdon; returning to his shiooting-gullory, George is received by Phil Bquot. — 
XXIL Mr. Snagaby, repeating to Mr, Tulkinghorn Jo's story of the sovereign, ts wurprised, 
to find Mr. Bucket in companys Mr. Bucket and Snagsby go to “Tomall-Alone’s ™ in 
search of Jo) they find Jonny nnd her friend; Anding Jo, thoy rotarn with him to Me. 
‘Tulkinghorn’s rooms, where Jo recognizes the dress of the lady who bertowed the sovar- 
eign, but not the lady herself, In the prosence of Mademolslle Hortense, XXII. Mr. 
Jarndyce and his wands retarn to Uleak House; Hortense offers herself to Rather as lady's 
maid: Richard 1s again unsettiol, and now makes choles of the army; Caddy consulta 
Kathor on breaking the news of her engagement to Mr. Turveydrop and Mre Jellyby 5 
Ar. Turveydrop 4x oyeroome, but soon recovers: Mrs Jellyby Ja too much absorbed i 
Torrloboola-Gha to show any Interest In ber daughter; Esther recurns tome, and find 
Charley engaged as her maid. — XXIV, Me, Jarndyce desires Itichand and Ada to eaticel 
their engagement before chard joins his regimont; Sr. Gidoree calle to teach Richard 
fencing, and thinks he has seen Eather before; Esther and Richard visit the Ceurt of Chane 
cory ¢ Br, Guppy Introduces Mrs. Chadband, formerly Mrx Rachael Mr. George appears 
{n search of Miss Flite, whom Gridley, who Is hiding al George's to avold arrest, wants to 
yee; Rather and Richard accompany them to Georgo'ss Mr, Bucket obtains admittance tex 
inquire; death of Gridioy.—XXV. Mra Suagsby becomes suspicions and Jealousy Mr, 
Chadband " improves a tough subjects" Jo 4s fed by Guster, and dismissed by Snageby 
with the gift of half a crown. —XXVL Mr. George and "tal Squod converse about the 
country; Phil's aceount of his early lifer Mr. George is visited ot his gallery by Geand- 
father Smallweed and Judy; 31. Smaliweed wants to obtain a specimen of Captain Hawe 
don's writing for alawyer; Me. George accompanies him to the lawyer's, who proven to 
be Mr. Tolkinghorn, —XXVIL. Mr. Tulkinghoru offers him a rewand for the wetting he 
ponseaien; 3. George declines, but proposes to take # friend’ advice; Lhe "old girl" 
gives Ceorpe Mr. Haguet's opinion, which condirma his own; Mr. George retame t MP 
Tulkinghorn’s, who uses high words to him in the presence of a clerk. —XXVELL Sit 
Leloester and Lady Dedlook, after thoir visitors retire, give audience to Mire Rounoewell's 
6701 he xpeaks of thoattachmnent of his.aon fur Roma, and requests to be allowed to remove 
aer from Chesney Wold: Bir Leloestor declines; Lady Dediook invites Rosa's confidence 
‘enc promiaes (o make her happy if she can.—XXLX. The young man of the mame of 
Guppy calls on Lady Dedloek: he mentions the remarkable resemblance Of Ksther Sum 
Deron to my lady, relates what hohmadiscoversl of her history, —that her real namo ie 
Mlawvon, sud that fe has found thar Use deceased laveowslter's was the samme; he prounises 
te bring wy lady Mr. Hawdon's papers, of whick ¢ all gain possession that wight, Lady 








































Bleak Mouse. B57 


Dedlock’s secrot agony for her child. —XXX. Mra. Woodcourt visits Bleak House; Caddy 
Jeliyby epende threo weeks at Ieak Hones, preparing for her wedding Caddy and Wrince 
‘sre married. — XXXI. Charley tnlorms Esther of the return of Jeuny and Ltt, and a sick 
tay with them} Esther and Charley go to Jenny's, and find Jot he Is terrified at Esther's 
resorablance to the lady who gave htm the sovereizn: thoy take Jo home, where they find 
Mr. Swimpolo, who advises turning lm into the street Todimppeare in thanlght: Esther 
srazres Charley through a dangerous tliness. — XXXL. And i taken with tho same disease 
herself; Mr. Suagaby, passing through Cook's Court at night, calle Mr, Weevie's atvention 
 pocullar smell wbout the place: Mr. Guppy and Mr, Weevlo, waiting the appointed 
time for reeetving the packet of Captain Hawdon's letters from Krook, are disguated by 
‘the taint In the atmosphere Keeping is appointment, they find Krook dead by spontance 
‘ous combustion, —XXXIU. Mr. Snaysty i followed to tho Sol’s Arina by hie wife, who 
takes him home agains Mr, Guppy recommends Weovls to remain in Krvok’s house, and 
sep possesalon of the property; tnexpected appearance of heirs Lo the eatate In the pore 
‘sane of the Smallweed family: Mr. Guppy carries the news of Krook’s death, and the 
probable destruction of the papers, to Lady Dediock; retiring, he meets Mr. Talkinghorn. 
XXXIV, George recelvos due notice of tho maturity of his loan from Grandfather Small- 
‘weed; Mr. Bagnet and his wife, coming in to renew bia draft, lad Mr. George in tla dilem= 
tai Mr, agnot gives bis opinion, through the old girl," that they had better see Mr, 
‘Bmallweed at once: Mr. Smallweed refuses to renew the loan, and breaks the pipe of 
peace: they goto Mr, Tulkinghorn's, where they mect Mrs Rowncewell coming outi to 
ree himself from Smallweed's claitos, Mr. George sells Mr. Tulkinghorn the speclmen of 
Captain Mawdon's writings Goorge advises Woolwich to honor hie mother,—XXXY. 
Eather's recovery: her frat intorview with Mr. Jarndyce; sho receives @ call from Mine 
Wiitoi Mise Fuito's account of hor case In Chancery, and ber warning sbout Richards the 
story of Mr. Woodcourt's herole bravery.—XXXVI. Esther and Charley go to Mr. Roy- 
thom's: Esther first sees the reflection of her (ace scarred by the disease: Eather, reating 
tn the wood, is met by Lady Dedlock, who owns her as her child, but tells her they mux 
Weror meet again; Esther’s frst meeting with Ada since her recovery, — XXXVI. Richard 
‘sends for iether to meot bln at the Dediock Arma: Mr. #kimpole appears as Iichand 
‘artless friend; Esther has an Interview with Richaed, who shows increasing distite for Me. 
Jamdsee, and increasing confidence in the early decialon of the suit; Ada writes to Rich- 
ard, praying hit to relinquish his hope from the suit; Eather tries to give Me. Skimpole 
‘an Idea of responsibility: Mr. Vholes, lichard's new legal adviner, appears. Mtr. Skimpob 
‘showing how he introduced him to Richard: Mr. Vholes informs Michsau thas bis cause 1 
‘coming on the next morning, and they return to town timmediately.— XXX FLL. Bath 
‘pots to London: abo calls on Caddy Jellyby, abd dances with the apprentices: Esther and 
Caddy call on Mr. Guppys Lather requeste a private Interview with Mr. Guppy, nnd cures 
that gentleman's passion by showing her face: she requests him to give up all idea of 
perving bor through any discovery relating to her parontage.—XXXtX. Mr. Vhol 

respectability; interview between Vholes and Richard, in which Vholes appears with 
“his shoulder to the wheel; Str. Guppy and Mr. Weorle go to Krook's house to remove 
Mr. Weevlo's offeots; they find Mr. Tulkinghorn looking on ae tho Smallweeds examine 
Krook’s papers; Mr. Guppy declines to explain to Mr. Tulkinghorn the business ha had 
with Lady Dodlock, — XL. Sir Lelocster and his retinue return to Chesney Wold; Sit 
Lelopater discusses with Volumuia the state of the pending election; Mr. Tulkinghorn 
arrives with the news of the defeat of Bir Leloester's party, and that Sir. Rouncewell and 
Aston ware very active in aiding that remit; Mr. Talkinghorn tells & atory bearing os 
‘non's position us Lady Dediock’s maid. —XLL Me. Tulkinghorn, on retiring to his room, 
#rought ty Lady Dedlock; sho asks how long he has known her secret, and how fir It 

‘own to others; abe informs him of her dealgn to leave Chesnay Wold at once: be coun: 
‘wis her to romain Just as before in all respects and promises to take no atepe to «xpore 
‘Rer without warning. —XLII. Mr, Snagsty complains to Mr, ‘Tulkinghorn of the persecur 
Mons of Mademoladile Hortense; Mr. Tulkinghorn threatens to have Hortense put in cox 
Amement if she continues her Importunities.— XLUL Esthes suygests to her guard 
‘Ghat Mr, Skimpole is not » fafo advisor for Wichard; they vislt Me, Bikimpote at bis homes 
Mr. Skimpole introduces his family’: he returns with Mr. Jarudyoe to Ilenk House; they 
secoive & call from Sir Leicester Dedlock; Rather's agitation ta his’ presence; Rather teile 









































ci 





858 Ebe Dickens Pictionary. 


hor guardian of the relationship botween herself and Lady Dediovk. —XLTV, Str, Jam 
dyce sends Rather a letter, with her permisston, asking her to become the mistrensof Bleak 
Wousoy Esther destroys the flowors sent her by Mr, Woodcourt; sho answers yea to Mr. 
Famdyce’s letter. —XLV. Mr. Votes calls upon Mr. Jarndyen, and reports the sad state 
of Richard's adairs; Esther decides to go and see Richard at Deal, whore he ts stationed, 
and she sols out with Oharley for hereomparion; ahe dnds Iichard looking worn and 
haggard; Richant grows more and more angry with Mr. Jardsee as the cause of his 
trlala, and convinces Esther of the necenalty of his withdrawing from the mrmyi Rether 
recognizes Atlan Woodcourt among some gentlemen landing fron an Indiaman Just wre 
rived; sto has an Interview with tim, and requests him to befriend Richard, which be 
Promises to do.— XLVI. Going through Tomall<\tone’s, Str, Woedcourt nds Jeany with 
‘a bruised head, which ho dresses for hery they purvue and overtake Jo, and Allan heart 
from Jonny thestory of his having becn taken in at Bleak House, and Esther catching tie 
disease Jo gives the reason of bis escaping from Bleak Houro, and Atlan takex charge of 
Wim. —XLVIL. Jo tells Allan the story of the lady in the veil; Woodcourt consults Mian 
Fito to find a place of refugo for Jo, and abo recommends Georges Mr, George takes tim 
Ing George expresses to Mr. Woodcourt his feelings toward Tulkinghorn; Jo seas a 
mosayge to Mr. Stagahy, who calls to a0 himy Jo makes his last request, and dies, —~ 
XLVI. Lady Dediock dismisses Rosa; Mr. Rouncewell calls, by Lady Dedicek's appolnt= 
Ment, and sho relinquishes Ross to his cares Mr, Talkinghor, who f present at the 
tatervlew, warns Lady Dedlock that he considers her course a departure from her promine, 
{and that ho shall soon undeoelse Sir Leicester, Mr. Tulkinghorn goes home to his rooms, 
‘tnd in the morning (sound murdered, lying on the floor. & XLIX. Mr. Bagnet prepares 
‘8 foast on bis wife's birthday: George Jolns them In dull spirits. which he accounts fur by 
do's death; Mr. Bucket adds himself to tho party, and makes himeelf friendly; Buckot 
arrests George for tho wnrder of Mr. Tatkinghorn, =I. Caddy Jellyby, who Das an 
tnfant, and ta Ul, senda for ¥xthor, and Mr. Jarndyce and Ada go with her to Londont 
Caddy recovers under Mr, Woodcourt's medical care; Esther notices a change in Ada’s 
manuor towards hers Mr. Woodcourt applies to Vholes for Richard's address —LA, He 
finds him next door: Eother and Ada visit Richart at his rooms; Ada acknowledges her 
‘sworet marriage to Itichant, and Eathor returnsalono ; Rather tolls Mr. Jamdycea.—LII, Mr 
‘Woodcourt tells Me, Jarndyce and Eather of the marder of Mr, Tulkinghorn and the arrost 
of Mr, George; the three visit him in prison George Is determined to-stand by the exact 
trath, and haveno lawyer: Mr.and Mre. Bagnet also coine tosee George: Georre mentions 
the resomblanoe of Esther to a figure ho ssw on Mr. Tulkinghorn’s stairs at the tine of the 
munter. —LIL, Mra. Bagnet reasons that George's mother ts allve, and sete off for Line 
colnsliire in search of her: Mr, Tucket watches his wife and their lodgers Bucket recelvee 
smonymous letters containing Lady Dedlock’s namo; he informe Sir Lelccater that he has 
the osse nearly worked ups— LAV, Next morning, Mr, Bucket Informs Sir Lolooster that 
tho case tn completes he proceeds to relate the conduct of Lady Dediock, and her fear of 
Talkinghorn, when they are interrapted hy the arrival of Smsliweed, the Chiadbands, and 
Mire Snageby, who demand to be bought off from the Rnowledge they have eulned of 
Lady Dediock's story: Bucket dismieses them, and admits Mademotsello Hortonso, whowa 
‘ho accuses of tho murder, and shows how he bes worked up the evidence.— LY. Mew 
Magnet brings Mrs Rouncewell, Mr, George's mother, to London: the mother aud son ia 
prison; Mra. Rouncewell Informa Lady Dedlock that ahe has found her von, and appeale fo 
her for pity’; Mr. Guppy requests an interview with Lady Dedlock, and tnforme her that 
Me. Sinaltweed and others, probably, know all she would have concealed; flight of Lady 
Deslock.— LVI. Str Leteenter tx struck with paralysis: Mr. Bucket Interprets his slgne 
‘and sets off tn pursult of Lady Dedlooky ho goes to Mr. Jarndyce’s house, and gets Rather 
‘o accompany him.—LVIL Bueket tracks Lady Dedlock to the brickinaker's at #t, Alt 
‘wun'ss they are told she went north, while Jenny went to London, and they follow on 
northward in search of or; bucket at fialt — LVL. He decides to follow tho other ane 
and returua to Londons what Rumor says of Lay Drsflock ; Sir Lelcostie ineixta on necting, 
Mrs. Rouncewell's non Georgo; they wate through the day atid aight for Lady Dodlook"s 
return; Kather and Me, Bucket reat London. — LIX. They trace the person they are fol 
‘awing to Dr, Sungsby"s, meeting Mx. Woodcourt by the way; they Gnd o lottor for Esther 
veritton by Lady Dedlock; following Gustee's direotions, they Gnd Lady Dedlock lying 























Bleak Mouse. 809 


dead at tho gate of the buryIng-ground.—LX, Esther learns from hor guandian that Mr. 
‘Woodeourt has dechted to remain in England; Mise lite makes ttichant her executor; 
Br. Vholes diacumes Hichard's {nterest with Kethors Ada confides her secret to Esther. 
EXT. Esther requests Mr. Skimpole not to go to Bichard's any more, and attempts to 
remonstrate with him for betraying Jo to Muckets Mr. Skimpole drops from this history: 
Allan Woodcourt declares his love to Esther. —LXIL. Kathor ves the day for becoming 
inistrese of Tilak House, Mr. Bucket introduces Mr. Smallwend, with a newly-discovered 
will In Jarndyce, — LXE, George makes the acquaintance of ba brother and bis family. 
=LXIV. Mr. Jarndyce goes to Yorkshire to look after Mr, Woodcourt’s basiness, and 
sends for Esther to follow hit; heahows her the huuse he has prepared for Allan, which 
de has named Isletk Mouse, and relinquishes her to Woodcourt: Mr, Guppy, backe t by 
‘his mother and Mr. Jobing, renewa his propoml.— LXV. Jarndyce and Jarndyce Is over 
for good; Rishant | reconciled to Mr. Jarndyce, and “begins the world." —LXVE. Ste 
Laloveiat's fo at Chesney Wold. —LXVIL. Esther closes her narrative. 








Hard Times. 


FOR THESE TIMES, 


——_ 


‘Tun talo was originally published in “Household Words;” the first chapter 
making its appearance in No, 210, for April, 1894, and the last in No. 229, for Aug 
12, 1851. Tu the same year ft was brought out independently, In one octave 
‘rolume of 252 poges, and was inscribed to Thomas Carlyle, In a letter to Mr 
Charles Knight (quoted fn his Passages of a Working Lifo™), Mtr, Dickens thas 
explains his design in writing this #tory:— 

My satlro Is against those who see Niguresand averages, and nothing len. —the repre 
reutatives of the wickedeat and most enormous vice of this time; the men wh, through 
ong yearn fo come, will do nore to damage the really useful truths of political economy 
than I could do (if I tried) In my wbolo Ute; the addled heads who would take the 

“average of cold tn tho Crimea during twelve months ms reukon for clothing a soldier ta 
rhankeon oh a night when he would be frozen to death th fur, and who would comfirt the 
laborer in travelling twelve miles m day to and from hie work by telling him that the 
avorugé distance of one inhabited place from another on the whole area of England ts not 
‘nore than four miles 

Let ux not lose the uso of Dickens's wit and insight," sage Mr, Ruskin ¢* Unto thle 
Tasi;* ch. L),"*ecanse he chooses to spenk In a clrolo of stago-re. He is entirely right 
nhl main drift and purpoes jn every book he has written; and allof thom, but espectally 

‘land Times,*abould be studted with close and eamest eare by persons intereated In aocta 
questions. ‘They will nd wnach thats partial, and, because partial, apparenty unjust 
Dut I¢ they examine all the evidenes on the other side, which Diekens same to orerliak 
ewill appear, afterall thelr trouble that bls view was the Anally right ene, gromaly and 
sharply told." 





CHARACTERS INTRODUCED. 


Bitzer, A light-haired and lighteyed pupil of Mr. M‘Choakum 
child's, in Mr. Gradgrind's model school; crammed full of hard facts, 
“but with all fancy, sentiment, and affection taken out of hin. 


Lis cold cyes would hardly have been eyes, but for the short ends of lashes 
which, by t-inging them into immediate contrast with something paler thas 
369 


Mard Times. 861 


themselves, expressed thelr form. His ahort-cropped hatr might hare been = 
‘mere continuation of the randy freckles on his forehead and face, His akin was 
0 unwholesomely deficient in the natural tinge, that he looked as though, If he 
‘wore cut, he wonld bleed white. 

* Bitzer,” sald Thomas Gradgrind, “ your definition of » horse.” 

“ Quadruped. Graminivorous. Forty teeth; namely, twenty-four grinders, 
Sour €ye-tecth, ana twelve incisive. Sheds eoat in the spring; In soarshy 
countries, slveds tioofs too, Moots hard, but requiring to be shod with tron, 
Age known by rwarks in mouth.” “Thus (and much more) Bitzer. 


After he leaves school, Bitzer is employed as light porter and 
clerk at Mr. Bounderby's Bank. When Mr, Gradgrind’s son, after 
robbing the bank, endeavors to escape, he starts in pursuit, ard 
pounces on him just as he is about to leave his father’s house for 
Liverpool. 

* Bitzer," sald Mr, Gradgrind, broken down, and iniserably submissive to 
‘him, “have you a heart?” 

“The eircalation, alr," returned Bitzer, smiling at the oddity of the question, 
“could n't be curried on without one, No man, air, acqualated with the fucts 
‘established by Harvey relating to the circulation of the blood, ean doubt that 
have a heart." 

It uccessible * cried Mr. Gradgrind, “to any compassionate Influence? 

“Te fs accessible to reason, sir,” returned the excellent young man; “and 
to nothing else." 
(Bk, I, ch. ii, v; Bk. II, ch. i, iv, vi, viii, kx, xi; Bk, Tl, ch. vii- 

ix.) 

Blackpool, Mrs. Wife of Stephen Blackpool. Soon after her 
marriage, she takes to drinking, and goes on from bad to worse, 
until she becomes a curse to her husband, to herself, and to all 
around her. (Bk. I, ch. x-xiii; Bk. II, ch. ix.) 

Blackpool, Stephen. A simple, honest, power-loom weaver, in 
Mr, Bounderby’s fhetory. A rather stooping man, with a knitted 
brow, a pondering expression of face, and a hard-looking head 
sufficiently capacious on whic his iron-gray hair Jay long and 
thin. His lot is a hard one. Tied to a miserable, drunken wife, 
who has made his home a desolation and a mockery, and for whom 
he has long ceased to feel either respect or love, he finds himself 
unable to marry —as he would like to do—a woman (Rachael) who 
has been a kind and dear friend wo him for many years; and he 
goes to Mr. Bounderby for advice. 

“ha? coom to nak yor, sir, how Imm to be ridded o? this woman.” Stepkew 

infused a yet deeper gravity into the mixed expression of his attentive face. . 

“What do you mean?” sald Bounderby, gatting up to lean lits back agninst 


the chimneyypleoe. “ What are you talking about? You took her for better 
for worse.” 
a 











-_— 








362 Ebe Mickens Mictlonacy. 


“Tan be ridden o her. I cannot bear % nommore, 1 ha' lived under "t +0 
Jong, for that I hw’ had’n the pity and comforting words o' U1? best lass Living or 
dead. Haply, but for her, I should ha’ gone hottering mad” 

“He wishes to be free to marry the female of whom he speaks, ¥ fear, sir,"ob- 
served Mrs. Sparait in an undertone, and much dejected by the {immorality of the 
people. 

“Ido, The indy says what right, Tao, Twere coming tot. That read? 
th! papers that great fok (fair fuw ‘em a'! Twishes ‘em no hurt!) are not bonded 
toguther for better, for worse, no fast, Dut that they ean be set free fro" thelr milafort- 
‘nt marriages, wn’ marry ower agen. When they dunnot agree, for that thelr tem= 
pers Is {il-sorted, they has rooms o one kind an* another in thelr houses, above a 
bit, and they can live asunders, We fok ba’ only one room, an? we can’t. When 
that won't do, they ha gowd an’ other cash, an’ then they aay, ‘Tha for yo, ant 
thot for mo;? an’ they can go their separate ways. We can't, Spite o° all that, 
they can be set free for smaller wrongs than mine. So I mun? be ridden o? thie 
woman, and I wan! t' know how.” 

“No how," retarned Mr. Bounderby, 

“If T do her auy hurt, str, there 'e a law to punish me?” 

“OF course, there is.” 

“If I flee from her, theres a law to punish me?” 

"Of course, there is." 
if Lmarry Coother dear lass, there 'e & law to punish me?” 

“Of course, there is." 

“Tf Twas to live w? her, an? not marry her,—saying auch « thing could be, 
which lt norer could or would, an’ her so good, —there ’s ® law to punish me in 
tnnovent child belonging to me?" 

f course, there 
‘ow, a’ God's name," sald Stephen Blackpool, “show me the law to help met” 
Hem! ‘There ’s » sanctity in this relation of life, sald Mr. Bounderby, “ and 
—nnd —It must be kept up." 

“No, no, dunnot aay that, sir! *T an't kep' up that way,—not that way,—PT' la 
np’ down that way. I’m aweaver, I were in s fuct'rs when  ohilt; but I hin’ got- 
ten cen to see wi’, and cern to year wi'. I read in th? papers overy 'Sizes, every 
Seasions—and you read too: I know it!—with dismay, how th’ auppored unpos 
sibility ov ewer getting unchained from one another, at any price, on any terms. 
brings blood upon this land, and brings many common married fok to battle, 
murder, and sudden death. Let ua ha’ this right understood. Mine's a grievous 
‘sare, an’ I want — if yo" will be #0 good —¥’ know the taw that helps me.” 

“Now, I tell you what!” sald Mr. Bounderby, putting his hands im his pockets. 
“There ie such a law.” 
subsiding into hls quiet manner, and nover wandering ia his attention, 


















“Bur it's not for you at all. Tt costs money. Tt costs mint of money." 

“How much might that be?” Stephen calmly asked. 

Why, you'd have to go to Doctorw’ Commons with » sult, and you'd have 
to go to a court of Common Law with a suit, and you 'd have to go to the House 
of Lords with a anit, and you Wd have to get an Act of Parliament to enable you to 
avarry ngain; and {t would oost you (if It was m case of very plain malting), I sup 
pose, from a thousand to fifteen hundred pound,” said Mr. Bounderby,—"“ perhaps 
*yrico the money 

“Phere 's no other In??? 

Certatuly not.” 








SUISMVdS “SAWN GNY AWAAGNAON “WHE 














Macd Slmes. 368 


“hy, then, sir," sald Stophen,. . . “t is a muddle,” sald Stephen, shakins 
‘his head as he moved to the door, —“t Is a? a maddie! ” 

When the Coketown operatives enter into a combination against 
their employers, and establish certain “ regulations,” Stepben re- 
fuses to join thom, and they all renounce and shun him. And 
when Mr. Bounderby questions him about the association (styled 
the “United Aggregate Tribunal"), calling the members “a set of 
rascals and rebels,” he earnestly protests that they are acting from 
i sense of duty, and is angrily told to finish what he ’s at, and thea 
look eleewhere for work, Leaving Coketown in search of employ: 
ment, he falls into an abandoned coal-shaft (“ Old Hell Shaft") hid- 
den by thick grass, where he remains for some days, when he is acci- 
dentally discovered, and is rescued, alive, but dreadfully bruised, 
and #o injured, that he dies soon after being brought to the surface. 
(Bk. I, ch. x-xiii; Bk. Uy, ch. iv-vi, ix; Bk. Ill, ch. ivvi) See 
Gravormp, Tom. 

Bounderby, Josiah. <A wealthy Coketown manufacturer, who 
marries tho daughter of Mr, Gradgrind. (Bk. I, ch. lil-ix, xi, xiv 
xvi; Bk. I, ch. -xii; Bk. IU, ch. fi-ix.) See Graponmp, 
Lovisa. 

‘Mr. Bounderby was as near being Mr. Gradgrind’s bosom-friend as a man 
perfectly derold of ventiment can approach that »piritual relationship towards 
auother man perfectly devoid of sentiment, So near was Mr, Bounderby,—or, 
Af the reader should prefer it, 40 far off. 

Ho was a rich man,—banker, merchant, manufhoturer, and what not; a big, 
loud man, with » «tare, and # metallic laugh; aman made out of a coarse mu- 
terial, which seomed to have been stretched to make so much of him; # man 
‘with » great puffed head and forehead, swelled voins in is temples, and such & 
strained skin to his face, that it seemed to hold his eyes open, and lift his eye 
brows up; a man with a pervading appearance on him of being inflated like a 
balloon, and ready to #tart; aman who could never sufficiently vaunt himsele 
 selfmade man; a man who was always proclaiming, through that brassy 
speaking-trumpet of a yolce of his, his old ignorance and his old poverty; a 
‘nan who was the Bully of hamility. 

‘Ayer or two younger than bis eminently practical friend, Mr. Bounderly 
looked older; his seven or eight and forty might have had the seven or eight 
added to It again, without surprising anybody. He had not much hatr. One 
might have fancied he bad talked {t off; and that what was left, all standing up 
In disorder, was in that condition from being constantly blown about by bis 
windy boastfaluess. 

Bounderby, Mrs, Louisa, See Graporip, Louisa, 

Childers, Mr. H. W. B. A young man, who is a member of 
Sleary’s Circus Troupe, and is celebrated for his daring vaulting 
act as the Wild Huntsman of the North American Prairies. (Bk. 
I, ch. vi; Bk. Il, ch. vii, viii.) 


— || 





BOL The Dickens Pictionary. 


Hi face, close-shaven, thin, and sallow, was shaded by a great quantity of 
dark Lalr brushed into a roll all round his head, and partod up the oxntre. His 
ngs were very robust, but shorter than legs of good proportions should have 
been. His chest and back were as much too broad as his legs were too short. 
Ho was drossed tn « Newmarket coat and tight-fitting trouser; wore a abawl 
round his neck; «melt of Iamp-oll, straw, orange-peel, horses’ provender, and 
sawdust; and looked a most remarkable sort of Centaur, compounded of the 
‘stable and the play-house. Where the one began, and the other ended, nobody 
vould have told with any sreciston. 


Gordon, Emma. A member of Sleary’s Circus Troupe, and a 
friend to Sissy Jupe. (Bk. I, ch. vi; Bk. III, ch. vil) 

Gradgrind, Mr. Thomas. A retired wholesale hardware mer- 
chant. (Bk. I, ch. ivix, xivexvi; Bk. UL, ch. iniii, vii, ix, xi, 
xii; Bk. IY, ch. Hix.) 

“THOMAS GRADGRIND, sir,—a man of realities; a man of fhots and caloula- 
tlons; m man who proceeds upon the principle that two mud two are four, und 
nothing over, and who fs not to be talked into allowing for any thing over; 
‘Thomas Gradgrind, sir,—peremptorily Thomas, Thomas Gradgrind; with » 
rule and s pair of scales, snd tho multiplication-table always in his pooket, air, 
ready to welgh and measure any parcel of human nature, nnd tell you exactly 
whatit comes to. Itis amore question of figures, a case of almple arithmetic, 
‘You might hope to get some other nousensical belief into the head of George 
Gradgrind, or Augustus Gradgrind, or John Gradgrind, or Joseph Gradgrind 
(all supposititios, non-existent persons), but into the head of Thomas Grad- 
grind—no, siri”™ 

In such terms Mr. Gradgrind always mentally introduced himself, whether 
to his private cirele of aequalntance, oF to the public In general, 


Visiting his model school in company with a government officer 
of the same intensely practical, utilitarian stamp as bimself, he 
tells the teacher, Mr. MChoakumchild, — 


“Now, what L want is facts, Tench these boys nod girls nothing but facts, 
Fucts alone are wanted in Life. Flant nothing else, and root out every thing 
else. You can only form the minds of reasoning animals upon facts: nothing 
else will over be of any service to them. hia is the principle on which I Dring 
‘wp my own obildren, and this 1s the principle on which I bring ap there ohill- 
dren. Stick to fhets, air!” 

The scone was a pial, bare, monotonous vault of a schoolroom, and the 
apenker’s square forefinger emphasized his observations by underscoring 
every sentence with a line on the schoolmaster’s slecye. ‘The emphasis waa 
helped by the xpeaker’s square wall of a forehead, which had his eyebrows for 
its base; while his eyes found commodious cellsrage in two dark cares, urer- 
shadowed by the wall. ‘The emphasis was helped by the speaker's mouth, 
‘hich was wide, thin, and hard set. The emphasis was helped by the speaker's 
voice, which was inflexible, dry, and dictatorial. ‘The emphasix was helped by 
the speaker's hnir, which bristled on the skirts of hls bald head, a plantation 
of firs to keep the wind from its shining surface, all covered with knobs, like the 
crust of a plam-ple, as if the head had searcely warehouse room tor the hand 
fncts stored [nside, ‘The speaker"s obstinate carriage, equare cont, «quare epm 
square shoulders, nay, his very necksloth, trained to take him by the throm 








Mard Elmes, 365 


‘with an unncsommodating grasp, ?ike a stubborn fact, as it was~-all helped 
the emphasis. , 

‘Mr. Gradgrind’s residence is a very matter-of-fact place, called 
“ Stone Lodge,” situated on = moor within a mile or two of the 
great manufacturing town of Coketown, 

A very regular feature on the face of the country, Stone Lodge was. Not 
the least disguise toned down or shaded off that uncompromising fact in the 
landscape. A grent square house, with & heavy portico darkening the prinelpal 
windows, as its roaster’s heavy brows overshadowed his eyes,—m caloulated, 
cast-up, balanced, and proved house. Six windows on this side of the door, six 
‘on that sido; a total of twelve in this wing, a total of twelve i the other wing; 
four and twenty carried over to the back; m Inwn and garden and an Infant 
avenue, all ruled straight :fke a botanical aecount-book} gas and ventilation, 
drainage and water-servico, all of the primest quality; fron clamps and gird- 
‘ert, fireproof, from top to bottom; mechanical lifts for-the housemalds, with all 
their brushes and brooms: every thing that heart could desire. 

Mr. Gradgrind marries his eldest daughter, according to a math- 
ematical plan which he has adopted, to Mr. Bounderby, another 
eminently practical man, who is not only twenty years her senior, 
but is in every respect unsuited to her. The result of this ill-ns 
sorted union is unhappiness not only to the wife, but to her father 
as well, for whom a still sharper trial is in store. His eldest son, 
whom he has carefully trained, becomes dissipated, robs his em- 











ployer, and brings disgrace on the hitherto unblemished mame of, — 


Gradgrind. In his sore trouble, Mr, Gradgrind {4 consoled and 
strengthened by two of the most unpractical people in the world, — 
Mr. Sleary, the manager of a circus, and Sissy Jupe, the daughter 
of a clown, both of whom he has repeatedly lectured on their 
utter want of worldly wisdom and practicality. Forced to admit 
that much of his misfortune is attributable to his own hard system 
of philosophy, he becomes a humbler and a wiser man, bending his 
hitherto inflexible theories to appointed circumstances ; making his 
facts and figures subscrvient to Faith, Hope, and Charity, and 
no longer trying to grind that heavenly trio in his dusty little mills 
See Suwany (Ma), and Jure (Crea). 

Gradgrind, Mrs, Wife of Mr. Thomas Gradgrind, (Bk. I, ch. iv, 
ix, xv; Bk. IL, ch. ix.) 

A little thin, white, pink-eyed bundle of shawls, of surpassing fecbleness 
mental and bodily; who was always taking physic without any effect; and who, 
whenever she showed a symptom of coming to iif, was invariably stunned by 
tomo weighty plece of fact tumbling on her. 

Gradgrind, Adam Smith. A younger son of Mr. Gradgrind. 
(Bk. I, ch. iv.) 
ae 








366 The Mickens Dietfonacy, 


Gradgrind, Jane. Mr. Gradgrind’s younger daughter. (Bk. | 
ch. iy, xvi; Bk. I, ch. ix; Bk. Uf, ch. i.) 
Gradgrind, Louisa, Eldest child of Mr. Gradgrind. 

‘There was an air of Jaded sullennoss in . . . the girl; yet, struggling through 
fire with nothing to burn, a starved fmagination keeping life is Itself somehow, 
which brightened its expression, —not with the brightness natural to cheerful: 
youth but with uncertatn, eager, doubtful dashes, which had something palm 
ful fn them, analogous to the changes of a blind face groplug its way. 

She becomes the wife of Josiah Bounderby, who says to the 
guests at the breakfast-table, after the marriage-ceremony has been 
performed, — 

“Lbave watched her bringing up, and I believe she is worthy of me, Atthe 
‘same time, —not to deoelve you,—I believe 1 am worthy of her, Sot thank 
‘you, on both our parts, for the good-will you have shown towards us; and the 
best wish I can give the unmarried part of the present company tn this: Thope 
‘ovory bachelor may find #s good a wife ms I hare found; snd I hope every 
spinster may find as good a husband ax my wife has found.” 

‘The current of their wedded life does not run smooth, however. 
Ctter incompatibility of temper, utter want of mutual love or 
sympathy, pave the way for a plausible acquaintance — a polished, 
easy man of the world—to approach her with insidious declara 
tions of love, and to propose an elopement. Resisting the tempta- 
tion, she flees to her father’s house, and implores him to save her. 
‘He recommends to her husband to allow her to stay there for a 
while, that she may have the opportunity she so much needs for 
repose and reflection ; but Mr. Bounderby requires that she shall 
return to his bed and board by the next day noon; and, as she fails 
to do so, he refuses to have any thing more to do with her, and 
leaves herin her father’s charge. (Bk. I, ch. iil, lv, vi-ix, xivexwi; 
Bk. Il, eb. §-ili, v-xii; Bk. TIL, ch. i-ix.) 

Gradgrind, Malthus. A sn of Mr. Gradgrind. (Bk. I, ch. iv.) 

Gradgrind, Thomas, Mr. Gradgrind’s youngest son; a selfih, 
ill-natured, sensual, mercenary whelp. He is employed as a clerk 
in Bounderby's Bank, and, being a dissipated and extravagant Idler, 
robs it of some hundred and fifty pounds. Fora time, he suc 
ceeds in throwing suspicion upon an innocent factory-operative 
but his own guilt is soon established, and he flees from the country 
to avoid arrest and imprisonment. (Bk. 1, ch. ii, iv, vii-ix, xiv, 
xvi; Bk. Il, ch. i-iii, v-v ik THT, ch. ii-ix.) 

Harthouse, Mr. James, A friend of Mr. Gradgrind’s, a thon 
ough gentleman, made to the model of the time, weary of every 








Macd Tlmes. 367 


thing, and putting no more faith in any thing than Lucifer. He is 
“five and thirty, good-looking, good figure, good teeth, good voice, 
dark hair, bold eyes.” (Bk. Il, ch. i-iii, v, vii-xli; Bk. IM, ch. ii, 
iil.) See Gnavonixp (Loursa), Jere (Crertta). 

Jape, Cecilia, or Sissy. The daughter of a clown. She has 

been kindly permitted to attend the school controlled by Mr. Grad+ 
grind; but Mr. Bounderby thinks that she has a bad influence over 
the other children, and advises that the privilege should be with- 
drawn, The two gentlemen accordingly visit the “ 
Arms” at Pod’s End, to inform her father of their iatention: but 
they find that Signor Jupe,—always a half-cracked man, — having 
got old and stiff in the joints, so that he cannot perform his parts sat~ 
isfactorily, and having got his daughter into the school, and there- 
fore, as he seems to think, got her wel! provided for, has run off to 
parts unknown, Under these circumstances, Mr. Gradgrind de- 
cides to take charge of the girl, and educate and support her. 
She accompanies him home, and makes herself very useful and 
companionable in his family. When Louisa is about to fall into 
the meshes of Mr. Hurthouse, Sissy visits that gentloman, and 
persuades and shames him into leaving the neighborhood; and, 
when Mr Gradgrind’s son is about to be arrested for the robbery 
of Bounderby’s Bank, she sends him to her father's old employer, 
Mr, Sleary, who conceals him, and gets him safely abroad. (Bk. I, 
ch. ii, iv-ix, xiv, xv; Bk. II, ch. ix; Bk. II, ch. {, il, iv-ix.) 

Jupe, Signor. A clown in Sleary’s circus; father of Sissy Jupo, 

ming dog Merrylegs” (Bk. 

ii.) See Jove, Crerura. 

Kidderminster, Waster, A mlberar Sleary’s Circus Troupe; 
a diminutive boy, with an old face, who assists Mr, Childers in his 
daring vaulting-act as the Wild Huntaman of the North American 
Prairies; taking the part of bis infant son, and belng carried upside 
down over his father’s shoulder, by one foot, and held by the crown 
of his bead, heels upwards, in the pal: of his father’s hand, accord- 
ing to the violent paternal manner in which wild huntsmen may be 
‘observed to fondle their offspring. (Bk. I, ch. vi; Bk. II, ch. vii.) 

M'‘Choskumchild, Teacher In Mr. Gradgrind’s modei 
school. (Bk. I, cl xiv.) 


‘Ho and some hundred and forty other schoolmasters had been lately turne 
‘atthe same time, fu the ame factory, on the same principles, like #0 many 
planoforte legs. He had been put through #n immense variety of paces, and 
had auswered volumes of head-breaking questions. Orthography, etymology, 




















368 The Dickens Mictlonarp. 


syntax, and prosody, biography, astronomy, srograny and general commogra 
phy, the aclences of compound proportiog, algebra, land surveying aud level 
ing, vocal musio, and drawing from models, were all at the ends of his ten chilled 
fingers. He had worked his stony way into her Majesty's most Honorable 
Privy Couneil’s Schedule B, and had taken the bloom off the higher branches 
of mathematics and physteal sclence, French, German, Latin, and Greek, Ife 
knew nll bout the watersheds of alt the world (whatever they are), aod all 
toe histories of all dhe peoples, and all the names of all the rivera and moun- 
tains, and all the productions, manners, and customs of all the countries, and 
ail thelr boundarios and bearings on the two and thirty points o: the compass. 
‘Abt rather overdone, M’Choakumchild. If he had only learnt a little less, how 
infinitely better he might have taught such more! 

Merrylegs. Signor Jupe’s trained performing-dog. (Bk. I, ch. iil, 
yewlii; Bk. IIT, ch. viii.) 

Pegler, Mrs. Mother of Josiah Bounderby; a mysterious old wo- 
man, tall and shapely, though withered by time, Her son, growing 
rich, becomes ashamed of her, and gives her thirty pounds a year 
to keop away from him, and not claim any relationship with him ; 
but the secret is at last divulged, under the most ridiculous circum- 
stances, through the agency of the inquisitive and superserviceablo 
Mrs, Sparsit. (Bk. I,ch. xii; Bk. Il,eh. vi, viii; Bk. III, olu iv, v.) 

Rachael. A factory-hand; a friend of Stephen Blackpool's. (Bl. 
I, cb, x= Bk, I, ch. iv, vi; Bk, TI, ch. iv-vi, ix.) 

Scadgers, Lady. Great-aunt to Mrs. Sparsit; an immensely fat 
old woman with an inordinate appetite for butcher's meat, and a 
mysterious leg, which has refased to get out of bed for fourteen 
years, (Bk. I, ch. vii; Bk. If, ch. viii; Bk. Ill, ch. ix.) 

Slackbridge. A trades-union agitator and orator. (Bk. II, ch. 
iv; Bk. IIT, iv.) 

Sleary, Josephine. Daughter of a circus proprietor; a pretty, 
fhirhaired girl of eighteen, noted for her graceful Tyrolean flower 
act. (Bk. I, ch. vi; Bk. I, ch. vii.) 

Bleary, Mr. Proprictor of a “Horee-riding,” or circus; a stout ” 
man, with one fixed eye and one loose eye, a voice (if it can be 
called #0) like the efforts of a broken old pair of bellows, a flabby 
surface, and a muddled head, which is never sober, and never drunk. 
Ilo is troubled with asthma, and his breath comes far too thick and 
heavy for the letter “s.” (Bk. J, ch. vi, ix; Bk. TI, ch. vii, viii.) 

Sparsit, Mrs. Mr. Bounderby’s housekeeper; an elderly lady 
highly connected, with a Coriolanian style of nose, and dense black 
eyebrows, Mr. Bounderby gives her a hundred a year, disguising 
the payment under the name of an “annual compliment.” (Bk. 
cb. vii, xi, xvi; Bk. II, ch. i, ili, vi, vili-xi; Bk. IU, ch iii, v, bx) 











Mary Clmes. 369 


PRINCIPAL INCIDENTS. 


BOOK [.—Caapren I. Mr. Thomas Gradgrind discourses on fact to the school-chie 
drer.—Il. Ho examines Kimy Jupe, and exprowes his disatiefuction at tho business of 
her Zather: Mr, Gradgrind and bis friend, addromaing the school, insist upon the xuprem= 
0y Of fact. —I1T, Mr. Gradgrind’s horror at finding his children peeping ut the olreas. = 
TY, Mr, Bounderby gives Mra Gradgrind an account of his bringing ap; Mr. Gradgring 
‘entors with tho children, and he and Bounderby decile that the preseneo of Slaay Jupo in. 
‘the school has produced @ bad effect, and that she should be discharged. ~V. Mr. Gendgrind 
and Mz. Bounderby go to Coketown to carry out this design, when thes meet Sissy in tho 
‘treot, and go With her fo the house)where hee father Is staying. — VI. Jupe is mlslng, and 
Simy pees In search of him; Mr. X. W. 2}, Childors anspoots Jupe hax run away, and 60 
‘explains his absence: flnding Jape does not return, Gradgrind offers Sisay a home under 
‘ertaln conditions, which she accept, —VIT. Mra Sparait appears ax Mr, ounderby's 
ousekeeper: Me. Gradgrind completes his plan of befriending Siavy Jupe, and takes her 
‘home with him to Stone Lodge. —VItl. Sympathy between Tom and Louisa, and Tom's 
plan of managing Bounderby through her influence. 1X. Sissy's account of her progress ia 
‘school; she tells Loulsa about her father and bis occupation: Sisxy's continued disappotnt- 
ment at hearing nothing from ber father. —X. Stephen Blackpool, watehing for Rachael 
fas the hands Leave tho fuctorioa, mines hor, but afterwards orertakes heron the way 
ome; leaving her, be proceeds home, and finds his drunken wife come back. —XI. 
Stephen consults Mr. Bounderby how ho can gat rid of hile wife by law, and tx more than 
‘ever convinced that it “ina' a muddle.""—XIL. After leaving Stra Bonnderby's house, 
Stephon encounters an old woman, who Is groatly Interested In that gontleman's welfare, 
—XUL Stephon finds Rachael tending his wifo; Rachael prevents her from polroning ber 
tolf; Rachael's tnflaence over Stephon. —X1V. Sissy Jupe Ie removed from echool: Mr. 
Gradgrind becomes sensible that Louisa han grown quite a young woman; Tom gives 
Lonlsa # hint of how she may be useful to hint, —XV. Mr, Gradgrind informs Louisa thas 
Mr. Boundorby has offered to make her his wife, and ahe accepts him. —XVL. Mr. Boun- 
derby Informs Mrs. Sparsit of his approaching marriage, and provides for her removal 
to the tank; Mr. Bounderby makes a apecch at his wedding-treakfust. 

BOOK If, —CuarrEn I, Bitzer informs Mrs. Sparait of his susplolons of Mr. Thomas 
‘Mr. James Marthouse calls at the bank to make inquiries for Str. Bounderby.—I. Mr. 
arthouse presents‘bis lettors of introduction to Mr. Hounderby, and Is tatroduced to Mrs, 
Boundorby; Mr. Harthouse, watching for something to move Loulss, finds it in th 
‘sppearance of Tom. —TIL, Harthouse draws from Tom some particulars in regard to hie 
later and her edacation.—IV. Sinckbridge harangues tho Coketown operatives; Stephen 
‘declines to enter into the proposed regulations of the workmen, and fs shuuned by all his 
old friends. —V. Tounderby sends for Siphon, who expresses to him and Harthouse hls 
‘opinion of the action of the workmen, whom be justifies, though he does not Jon thom: 
Bounderby becomes angry with him, and discharges him. — V1. Stophen la surprised to meet 
Rachael in company with Mrs Pegler, she old woman whom he had mat before, he informs 
them of bis discharge, and Invites them to accompany him home; Mra. Pegler speaks of 
‘tho son whom abe has lost, and shows great fear of meeting Mr. Bounderby; Louisa calls 
‘upon Stephen, accompanied by Tom, to express her armpathy, and to offer him asalatance 
Tom, under promise of doing him n service, naks Stephen to bang about the bank exch 
reuing before ho leaves Cokstown; Stephon leaves Coketown in acarch of work. — VEL. 
Harthouso goes to Mr. Bounderty"s eountry-bouse, and finds Louisa alone: he assumes ai 
Aatereat in Tom for the purpose of securing an influence over her; Harthoume accuses Tom 
Angratitadeto his eater, and he promises amendment. VILL. The robbery of Bounderby' 
Bank, snd the effect of the news upon Loulssy Staphen Miackpool inxuspected of the crime 
oa the evidence of Mrs. Sparalt and Bitzer, by whom bo was aven hanging round the bank; 
Dre. Sparsit shows hor devermination to pity Bounderby, and keeps hor ¢y@ an Harthousa 
‘and Loulsa; Louisa goes to Tom's room, snd begs him to confide In her.— LX. Mra Spare 
t's action throws Harthouse and Loulsa more together; sickness and death of Mra. 























aa 





870 Ede Wickens Wletfonary 


Geadgrind; Mes Sparstt watches the growing tatiinacy of Harthouso with Louisa. —X. 
Harthouso tries to convinoe Loulsa of Blackpool's guilt. XE, Mrs Sparsit, learning trom. 
Tom that he has an appointment to meet Mr. Harthouxe at Coketown, suxpects this 
plan to keep Tom ont of the wap, while Harthouxe goes to moot Toulss alone in tho aby 
sence of Mr. Bounderby ; and, hastening off to the country-house, she finds them together, 
‘and ovorbears Harthouse's declaration of lover Mra Sparut follows Loulas, through * 
drenching storm, to Coketown, and there loves slght of her.—XIL Louies goes home 
hhor father, tells bim her story, and begs him to sare her. 

BOOK IU. —Cuarrax I. Mr. Graigrind begios to suspect some dofeet in his system of 
socsation; Siey comforts Loute.—IT. Mr. Marthoune, Ia doubt of what may haprea 
“Dext, recelves a call from Sissy Japs, who Informs him he can never see Loules again, aad 
‘asks him, a9 the only reparation he can make, to leavo the place immediately, which he 
dooldes to do. ETI. Ses. Sparsit Informs Bounderby of her discoveries, wnd he takes her 
fo Mr. Gradgrind’s, whore he learns what hax bocome of Loulesy at Mr, Gradgrina’s sug 
‘estion that Loulss should remain there for a time, Bounderby determines to leave her 
therpall tho time. —1¥, Hounderby offersa reward for tho approhonston of Stephen Back» 
pools Rachnel appeals to Loulas to condirm her story of Loula's visit to Stephen, and 
Promos that ho #hail bo there In two days; Stopheu (alls to apposr, and cannot be found. 
—YV. Mra Sparait captures old Mra. Pegler, and takes her to Hounderhy"s house; ahe 
proves to bo ounderty's mother, and alt hls storios of his ebildhood falschooda.— VI. 
Bisay and Rachacl, walking in tho lelds, discover Stephen's hat at the mouth ofan aban- 
doned coal-shafty help gathers, and Stephen ts raleed from the pit, sill ullves he recog 
‘nize Rachacl, and asks Mr. Gradgrind to cloar his nase, ax his son can tell him hows 
Stephen dlox — VII. Tom vanishes at a hint from Stay; Louisa and Slay inform Mr. 
Gradgrind of thelr previous suxpicions of Tom, "wad that Sissy had sent him to Mr. Sleary 
to bo hiddeny Mr, Gradgrind, Louisa, and Simy go to Mr. Sleary, thon exhibiting not fr 
from Liverpool, and arrange for Tom's escape from the country, In disguise, whon thelr 
plan ts Lotarrepted by Biiser.— VILE Mr. Sleary, through the ald of hia trained horse 
St do, sits Tom to sesape,—EX. Men Bparlt bes eure of Mr. Benatar tae of 

















The Seven Poor Travellers. 


([romusuxp ox “Houskionn Wonns," ox 1894.) 


‘In the ancient elty of Rochester, tn Kent, is a venerable white house with this 
teseription over its quaint old door: 


RICHARD WATTS, ESQ. 
BY mis Witt, Daren 2 Ava. 1570, 
POUNDED Hts CHARITE 
YOR #1X POOR TRAVELLERS, 
wo, Yor EEG ROGUES, ox PROCTORS, 
(MAT RECEIVE ORATIA YOR OXR NIGHT 
LODGING, ENTERTAINMENT, 
AND FOURVEXCE EACH. 


On a certain Christmas eve, the narrator of the story —who deseribes himself 
ns being a traveller, and withal as poor as he hopes to be—visigs the Charity, 
and makes Inquiries of the matron concerning the institution and its management. 
He finds that the presoribed number of travellers is forthooming every night from 
year’s end to year's end, but that they are not lodged in the house Itself, occupying 
two little galleries at the back Instead; neither are they provided with entertain= 
tent, as might be supposed, but buy what they can with their fourpences, and 
prepare their own suppers, afire and cooking-uteualls belng furnished them for this 
porpose. OF tho whole revenue of the establishment, only about # thirtieth part 
ls expended for the objects commemorated Ln the inscription over the door; the rest 
being handsomely laid out in chancory, Isw-expenses, collectorehip, receivership, 
poundage, and other appendages of management highly complimentary to the im- 
portance of the Six Poor Travellers, and essential to the dignity of the Board of 
Trustees. Having ascertained these fhots, the narrator becomes desirous of treat- 
Ing the travellers on that night to ® supper and & glass of hot waanall at his own 
expense. Consent being granted, he sets before them a most substantial and ex» 
vellent meal, and after it fx ended tells them — 


THE STORY OF RICHARD DOUBLEDICK. 
am 











372 The Dickens Mctlonar» 


OHARAOTERS INTRODUCED. 


Ben. A waiter. 

Doubledick, Richard. A young man who has run wild, ana 
has been dismissed by the girl to whom he was betrothed. Made 
reckless by this well-deserved stroke, he enlists in a regiment of 
the line under an sssumed name, becomes more dissipated than 
ever, and is constantly getting punished for some breach of disci- 
pline. Under the influence of the captain of his company, how= 
ever, he becomes an altered man, rises rapidly from the ranks, and 
gains the reputation of being one of the boldest spirits in the 
whole army. At Badajos the captain falls, mortally wounded by 
French officer; and from that moment Doubledick devotes himself 
to avenging the death of his friend, in case he should, ever meet 
that French officer again. At Waterloo he is among the wounded, 
and for many long weeks his recovery is doubtful; but heis tenderly 
nursed by Mrs. Taunton, the mother of his lost friend, and by the 
young Indy (Mary Marshall) to whom he bad been engaged, and 
who now marries him. Three years afterwards, he has occasion to 
visit the South of France, to join Mrs. Taunton (who has gone 
thither for her health), and escort her home. He finds her the 
unwitting guest of the very officer who killed her son, and whose 
life he has vowed to have in return. But the frank and noble 
demeanor of the Frenchman, the innocent happiness of his pleasant 
home, and the warm regard which Mrs. Taunton has come to foel 
for him, —all combine to suggest better thoughts and feclings; and 
Captain Doubledick secretly forgives him in the name of the diving 
Forgiver of injuries. 

Marshall, Mary. A beautiful girl, betrothed to Richard Double 
dick; afterwards estranged from, but finally married to, him. 

Taunton, Captain. The captain of the company in which Priv 
ate Richard Doubledick enlists, 

Taunton, Mrs. His mother. 


The Holly-Tree. 


[Pontismxp rx “ Housenotp Wore,” mx Decexmen, 1858.) 
er 


‘Tars Is the story of « gentleman, who, imagining himself to have been sup- 
planted in the affections of a young lady, resolves to go stralght to America—on 
his “way to the Devil.” Before starting, however, he finds occasion to make « 
‘vialt to m certain plaos on the farther borders of Yorkshire, and on the way thither 
ho gets snowed up for a week at the Holly-Tree Inn, where be finds himself the 
only guest, Sitting by the fire in the principal room, he reads through all the 
books in the house; namely, a “Book of Roads,"*a little song-book terminating in m 
callection of toasts und sentiments, a little Jest-book, an odd volume of “Peregrine 
Pickle,” and “The Sentimental Journey,” to say nothing of two or three old news- 
papers. ‘These being exhausted, he endeavors to while away the time by recalling 
his experience of inns, and his remembrances of those he bas beard or read of. 
He further beguiles the days of his tmprisonment by talking, at one time or anoth- 
‘er, with the whole establishment, not excepting the “ Boots,” who, lingering in the 
‘room one day, tells him story about a young gentleman not eight years old, who 
‘runs off with a young lady of seven to Gretaa Green, and puts up at the Holly- 
‘Tree. When the ronds are at last broken out, and Just as the disconsolate traveller 
4s.on the point of resuming his journey, a carriage drives up, and out Jamps his 
(as he supposes) wuccessful rival, who is rauning away to Gretna too. Te turns 
put, however, that the lady he has with him is not the one with whom the traveller 
is in love, but her cousin. ‘The fugitives are hastened on thelr way; and the trav- 
el'er retraces bis ateps without delay, goes atralght (o London, and marries *he 
it “thom he thought he had lost forever, 


CHARACTERS INTRODUCED. 


Boots. See Cozzs. 
Charley. Guest at the Holly-Tree Inn; » self-supposed rejected 
man; in love with Angela Leath. 
2 m 








874 Che Dickens Mictlonacp, 


‘ 

Cobbs. The “ Boots” at the Holly-Tree Inn; formerly under-gar 
dener ai Mr. Walmers’s. 

Edwin. Supposed rival of Charley, the guest at the Holly-Tree; 
betrothed to Emmoline. 

Emmeline. Cousin to Angela Leath. She elopes with her lover, 
Edwin, and is married to him at Gretna Green. 

George. Guard of a coach. 

Leath, Angela, The lady-love and aftexwards the wife of Char 
ley (the Holly-Tree guest), who for a time delades himself inte 
thinking that she prefers his friend Edwin, 

Norah. Cousin to Master Harry Walmer, junior, with whom she 
runs away from home, intending to go to Gretna Green, and be 
married to him. She is, however, overtaken and carried home, and 
long afterwards becomes the wife of « captain; and finally dies in 
India. 

‘Walmers, Master Harry, junior. A bright boy, not quite 
eight years old, who falls in love with his cousin, a little girl of 
seven, and starts with her for Gretna Green, to get married. Stop. 
ping at the Holly-Tree Inn in their journey, they are recognized 
by the “ Boots,” who had been in the service of the young gentle- 
man’s father, The landlord immediately sets off for York to inform 
the parents of the two little runaways of their whereabouts, They 
return late at night; and Mr. Walmers, — 

“The door belng opened, goes in, goes up to the bedside, bends gently down, 
and kisses the little sleeping fee; then he stands look! 
looking wonderfully like It (they do say he ran away wis 
then hie gently shakes the little shoulder. 

«Harry, my dear boy! Harry!? 

“ Master Harry starts up and looks at his pa,—looks at me too, Such ts the 
honor of that mite, that he looks at me, to see whother he has brought me into 
trouble, 

“eT am not angry, my’ child, Youly‘want you Vo dread yourself nd sooke 
home. 

“* Yeu pa! 

“ Master Harry drosses himself quick. 

“*Please, may I? (the spirit of that Ustlo oresture!), ‘please, dear pa,— 
may I—Kiss Norah before I go?? 

“*¥ou may, my child? 

“So ho takes Master Harry in his hand, and I leads the way with the eanille 
to that other bedroom, where the elderly Indy {s seated by the bed, and poor 
Vittle Mrs. Harry Walmers, junior, s fast asleop. ‘There the father lifts the boy 
up to the pillow, and he lays his little fica down for an instant by the little 
‘warm face of poor little Mrs. Harry Walmers, junior, and gently draws it te 
him, —a sight #0 touching to the chambermaids, who are a-peeping through the 
door, that ono of ther calls out, *It"%s a shame to part em!” 





Ebe Mollp-Sree. 875 


Finally," Boots sayy, “ that 'e all about {t. Mr, Walmers drove away tn the 
chaise, having hold of Master Harry's hand. ‘The elderly indy and ‘Mrs. Marry 
‘Walmers. junior, that was never to be, went off next day.” In conclusion, 
Roots puts it to me whether I hold with him in two opinions: firstly, that there 
ure not many couples on their way to be married who are half as innocent as 
them two children; secondly, that it would be a Jolly good thing for a great 
many couples on thelr way to be married, if they suld only be stopped In time, 
‘and brought back separate, 

Walmers, Mr. The father of Master Harry; a gentleman living 
at the “ Elmscs,” near Shooter's Hill, six or seven miles from Lon- 
don. “Boots” thus describes him: — 

Ae was a gentleman of spirit, and good-looking, and held his head up when 
he walked, and had what you may call “fire” about him. He wrote poetry, 
and he rode, and he ran, and he ericketed, and he danced, and he acted; and he 
done tt all equally besutiful. Ite was uncommon proud of Master Harry, as was 
‘his only child; but he did n't spol him, neither. Ie was a gentleman that had 
‘will of his own, and a eye of his own, and that would be minded, 





Little Dorrit. 





‘Ox the first day of December, 1856, the firat number of this tale was issued 
and the twentieth and last number mado its appearance in June, 187, Tho work 
‘was illnstrated by Hablot K. Browne; and on its completion it was dediqated te 
the late Clarkson Stanfeld, the eminent landscape-painter. The main object of 
the author was to expose the vexatious procrastination, the Indirectuess, and the 
Jneptitude, of governmental routine in the transaction of the public business; ana 
this was done in the description of the Clreumlocution Ofice, as managed by the 
inefficient and supereilious Barnacle family, Another object was to call attention 
tothe evil effects of imprisonment for debt, particularly in the case of perrous 
wholly unable to discharge the claims of their creditors, orto render a full and 
‘sntisfuctory explanation of all the debts and liabilities they had incurred, con- 
formably to the Indispensable condition of release Imposed by the Insolvent Court. 
A third object was to hold up to ridicule the snobbery which delights to pay home 
‘age to mere wealth, like that of Mr. Merdie, 








OHARACTERS INTRODUCED. 


Aunt, Mr. F's. See Mr. F's. Aunt. 

Bangham, Mrs. A charwoman and messenger; nurse of Mra, 
Dorrit in the Marshalsea Prison. (Bk. I, ch. vi, vii; Bk. Il, ch. 
xix.) 

Barnacle, Clarence, culled Bannacix, Juxion. Son of Mr, 
‘Tite Barnacle; an empty-headed young gentleman employed in 
the Circumlocution Office. (Bk. I, ch. x, xvii, xxxiv, xxxv.) 

[He] had a youthful aspect, and the fuMest litte whisker, perhaps, that ever 
‘was seen. Such a downy tip was on his callow chin, that he seemed halffledged, 
like a young bird; .... He hada superior eyegtass dangling round his neck, 
but unfortunately had sueh flat orbits to his eyes, and such limp little eyelida 


that it would n’t stick in when he put It up, but kept tumbling out against Ip 
walwicoat buttons with a click that diseomposed him very mach. 
Eo) 


Little Dorcit. 3i7 


Barnacle, Lord Decimus Tite, Uncle of Mr. Tite Barnacle , 
a windy peer, high in the Circumlocution Office. (Bk. I, ch. xxvii, 
xxv, xxxiv; Bk. Il, ch. vii, xxiv, xxviii.) 

‘The Cireumiooution Office was (as everybody knows without being tolc) the 
‘most important department under government. No public business of any 
ind could possibly be done at any time without the acquiescence of the Cireum- 
location Oflce. Ite finger was In the largest public ple and in tho «mullest 
public tart. It was equally Impossible to do the plainest right, and to undo the 
plainest wrong, without the express authority of the Cireumlocution Office. If 
‘snother gunpowder plot had been discovered half an hour before the lightl 
of the mateh, nobody would have been justitied in saving the parliament until 
‘there had been half a score of boards, half a bushel of minutes, several sacks 
of official memoranda, anda family vault full of ungrammatical correspondence, 
‘on the part of the Cireumlocation Office, 

‘This glorious establishment had been carly fn the field when the ane sublime 
principle involving the difficult art of governing a country was frat distinctly 
revealed to statesmen, It had been foremost to study that bright revelation, 
and to carry ite shining influence through the whole of the officint proceedings. 
‘Whatever was required to be done, the Cireumlocution Office was beforehand 
with all the public departments in the art of percelying—sow Nor TO DO 
TH eas 

The Clreumlocution Office went on mechanfeally, every day, keeping thia 

wonderful, all-rufficient wheel of statesmanship, “How not to do it," in motion. 

‘The Cireumlocution Office was down upon any ilbadvised public servant who 

‘was going to do it, or who appeared to be, by any surprising accident, in remote 

danger of doing It, with a minute, and a memorandum, and » letter of instruc 

tions, that extinguished him, It was this spirit of national efficiency in the 

‘Cireamlocntion Office that had gradually led to ite having something to do with 

every thing. Mechaniciane, natural philosophers, soldiers, aallors, petitioners, 

‘Memorialists, poople with grievances, people who wanted to prevent grievances, 

people who wanted to redress grievances, jobbing people, Jobbed people, people 

‘who could n't get rewarded for merit, and people who coald 2% got punished 

for demerit, were all indiscriminataly tacked up under the foolssap paper of the 

‘Cireumlocution Office. 

Numbera of people were lost ia the Cireumlocution Office. Unfortunates 
with wrongs, oF with projects for the general welfare (and they bad better have 
had wrongs ot first than have taken that bitter Engilsh recipe for eertainly 
getting them), who in slow lapse of time and agony bad passed safely through 
‘other public departments, who, according to rule, had been bullied tn this, 
overreached by that, and eraded by the other, got referred nt last to the Gir 
camlocution Office, and never re-appeared in the light of day. Boards sat upon 
them, secretaries minuted upon them, commissioners gubbled nbout them, 
clerks registered, entered, checked, and ticked them off, and they melted away. 
Zn short, all the business of the country went through the Cireumlocution Office, 
‘except the business that never came out of it; and ita name was Legion, 








In the great art“ How not to do it," Loré Deolmus had Jong sustained the 
oughest glory of the Barnacle farily; and let any itLadvised member of elther 
house but try how todo it by bringing in a bill to do it, that Dill wus as good 
‘5 dead and baried when Lord Decimus Tite Barnacle rose up in bis place, and 
wlemaly said, soaring Into indignant majesty as the Circumlocution cheering 

me 








878 Ebe Dickens Mictfonary. 


soured araand him, that he was yet to be told, my lords, that fk beboowed tim, 
as the minister Of this free country, to set bounds to the philanthropy, to cramp 
the charity, to fetter the public spirit, to contract the enterprise, to damp the 
independent self-reliance, of ita people. 


Barnacle, Ferdinand. Private secretary to Lord Decimus Tite 
Barnacle; a vivacious, well-looking, well-dressed, agreeable young 
fellow, on the more sprightly side of the family, _ Arthur Clennam 
wishing to investigate Mr. Dorrit's affairs, with the view of re- 
Jeasing him, if possible, from the Marshalsea, inquires of Barnacle 
how he can obtain information as to the real state of the case: 


“You "ll Gnd out what department the contract was in, and then you ‘ll 
find out all about ft there.” 

beg your pardon, How shall I find out?” 

“Why, you ’l—you ‘It ask till they tell you. Then you "ll memorialize that 
department (according to regular forma which you "ll find out) for leure to. 
memorialize this department. If you get tt (which you may; after a time), that 
‘memorial must be entered in that department, sent to be registered in this de- 
partment, sont back to be signed by that department, sent Buck to be counter- 
‘aigned by this department, and then {twill begin to be regularly before that 
department. You "ii find out when the business passes through each of these 
‘tages by aaking at both departments til) they tell you.” 

* But surely this is not the way to do the business," Arthur Clennam could 
not help saying. 

‘This alry young Barnacle was quite entertained by his elmplicity in supposing 
for a moment that twas. This light-in-hand young Barnacle knew perfectly 
that it was not. ‘This touch-and-go young Barnacle had*‘got up” the depart 
‘ment In # private secretaryship, that he might be ready for any little bit of fat 
that came to hand; and he fully understood the department to be m politica. 
diplomatico-hocus-pocus plece of machinery for the assistance of the nobs ta 
keeping off the snobs, ‘The dashing young Barnaclo,in @ word, was tikely to 
become @ statesman, and to make s figure, 

“When the business fs regularly before that department, whatever it f4/" 
pursued thle bright young Barnacle, “ then you can watch tt from time to time 
through that department. When it comes regulsrly before this 
then you must wateh it from time to thme through this department. We shall 
hare to refer it right aod left; and, when we refer It anywhere, then you'll have 
to look it up. When It comes back to us at any thme, then you had better look 
te up. When Itaticks anywhero, youll have to try to give tt « Jog. When 
you write to another department about It, and then to this department about 
it, and don’t hear any thing satisfactory about it, why, then you had detter= 
keep on writing.” 

(Bk. J, ch. x, xxiv; Bk. Il, ch. xii, xxviii.) 

Barnacle, Mr. Tite, A mas of family, a man of place, and a 
man of a gentlemanly residence, who usually coaches or crame the 
statesman at the Lead of the Circumlocution Office. (Bk. I, ch. ix 
x, xxiv; Bk. Il, cb. xi) 

Blandois. See Ricavp. 





Rittle Dorrit. 879 


Beadle, Harriet, -alled Tarryconam. A girl taken from the 
Foundling Hospital by Mr. Meagles to be « maid to his daughter 
Minnie, She isa handsome girl, but headstrong and passionate, 
Mr. Meagles takes great pains to improve her disposition and 
character, and always advises her, when she is not in a good temper, 
to “take a little time,” and to “count five dnd twenty.” She 
proves insensible, however, to all his goodness and kind considera 
tion, runs away after a time, and places herself under the pro 
tection of a certain Miss Wade; but in the end she returns, humble 
and penitent, to her benefactor’s house. 


“She was called, in the institution, Harrlot Beadle,—an arbitrary name, of 
course. Now Harriet we changed into Hatty, and then into Tatty, because, ma 
practical people, we thought ren a playful name might be a new thing to her, 
snd might have a softening and affectionate kind of effect; don't you see? As 
to Beadle, that I need n’t aay was wholly out of the question. If there is any 
thing that l» not to be tolerated on any torma; any thing that is a type of Jack- 
in-office Insolence and absurdity ; any thing that represents in coats, waistooats, 
‘and big sticks, our English holding-on by nonsense after every one has found it 
‘out,—it is a beadie. . . . The name of Beadle belng out of the question, 
‘and the originator of the institution for these poor foundlings having been & 

: of the name of Coram, we gave that name to Pet's lietle maid. 

wns Tatty, and at one time she was Corain, until we got into 
‘way of mixing the two names together; nnd now she is always Tuttycoram.”” 

(Bk.1, eh. ii, xvi, xxvii, xxviii; Bk, Il, ch, ix, x, xx, xxxill.) 

Bob. Turnkey of the Marshalsea Prison; godfather to Little Dorrit. 
(Bk. I, ch. vi, vil; Bk. I, cb. xix.) 

Casby, Christopher. Landlord of Bleeding Heart Yard; a selfieh, 
crafty impostor, who likes to be thought a benefactor to his species, 
and who grads his tenants by proxy. 

Patriarch wns the name which many people delighted to gire him. Varlous 
eld ladies in the neighborhood spoke of him as The Last of the Patriarchs. 50 
gray, 0 alow, 40 quiet, so Impassionate, so very bumpy In the head, Putriarch 
‘was the word for him. .. . His smooth fice had a bloom upon it like ripe wall: 
fruit. What with bis blooming fhce, and that hend, and his blue eyes, he seemed 
to be delivering sentiments of rare wisdom and virtue. In like manner, his 
physiognomical expression seemed to teem with benignity. Nobody could have 

sald where the wisdom was, or where the virtue was, or where tho beniguity 
was; but they all reemed to be somewhere about hia. 

(Bk. I, ch. xii, xiil, xxill, xxiv, xxxv; Bk. TL, ch. ix, xxiii, 
xxxil.) 

Cuvalletto, John Baptist. A feliow-prisoner with Rigand at 
‘Marucilles ; afterwards in Arthur Clennam’s employ, and of wee to 
him in discovering that person. (Bk. I, eh. i, xi, xxiii, xxv, xxix; 
Bk. If, ch. xii, xxii, xxiii, xxviii, xxx.) 











380 The Dickens Mietlonacy. 


A sunburnt, quick, lithe little man, thick-set. Rar-rings 1 hie 
brown cars, white teeth lighting up his grotesque brown face, 
‘hair clustering about his brown throat, 


Chivery, John. A non-resident turnkey of the Marshalsea Prison, 
(Bk. I, ch. xviii, xix, xxii, xxv, xxxi, xxxv, xxxvi; Bk. Il, ch. xviii, 
xxvi, xxvii, xxix, xxi, xxiv.) 

Chivery, Young John. His eon; a lover of Little Dorrit. 

‘Young John was small of stature, with rather weak legs, and very weak light 
alr. One of his eyes was also weak, and looked larger than the other, as if it 
‘could n’t collect itself, Young John was gentle likewise. But he was grest of 
soul; poetical, expansive, faithful. 

‘This sentimental youth, before ever he had told his love, had often 
meditated on the happiness that would result from bis marriage to 
Little Dorrit, and on the loving manner in which they would “glide 
down the stream of time in pastoral and domestic happiness.” 

‘Young Jobn drew tears from his eyes by Slehing the ploture with a tomb- 
stone in the adjoining churchyard, close against the prison wall, bearing the 
following touching Insoription: “Sacred to the memory of Joux Curvcny, 
Sixty years Turnkey, and fifty years Head Turnkey, Of the neighboring Mar- 
shalsea, Who departed this life, universally respected, on the thirty-first of 
‘December, One thousand eight hundred and eighty-six, Aged elghty-three years. 
Also of his truly beloved and truly loving wife Ascy, Whore maiden name was 
Donnar, Who survived his lows not quite forty-elght hourr, And who breathed 
‘vor last tn the Marshalses aforesaid. ‘There che was born, There abe lived, 
ahere she died.” 

He finally musters up courage to approach Miss Dorrit in rela- 
tion to the subject that is so near his heart. She, however, not 
only gives him no encouragement, but requests him very plainly 
(though with the utmost delicacy and consideration) never to refer 
to the matter again. 

It was an affecting {tlustration of the fallacy of human projects, to behold her 
Jover . . . erceping along by the worst back-streets, and composing as he went 
the following new inscription for a tombstone tn St. George's churchyard: — 

“Here le the mortal remain of Joun Ouxveny, Never any thing worth 
mentioning, Who died about the end of the year Ouc thousand eight hundred 
‘and twenty-six, Of a broken heart, Requesting with bis last breath that the 
word Asr might be inscribed over his shes, Which was nooordingly directed 
robe done, By his aMicted parents.” 

John does not easily recover from the blow he has received ; and 
when, long afterwards, he learns that Little Dorrit is to be married 
to Arthur Clennam, he is made very wretched, though he endeavors 
to bear the intelligence with manly fortitude. Ho cannot refrain, 
however, from composing on that ill-starred night the following 
monumental inscription :— 





‘Rittle Dorest. 38L 


wrTnaxornt 
REUPECT THE TON OF 
JOHN CHIVERY, Junior, 
WHO DIED AT AX ADVANCED AGE 
NOT NECESSARY TO SEXTION. 
WE ENCOUNTERED M8 RIVAL IX A DIRTRESSRD STATE, 
AND FELT INCLINED 
YO MAVE A MOUND WITH mIM; 
BUT, YOR THK SAKE OF THE LOVED ONE, 
CONQUERED THOSE YEELINGS OF RITTERWES® 
AND BECAME 
MAGNANIMOUS. 
(Bk. I, ch. xviii, xix, xxii, xxv, xxi, xxv, xxxvi; Bk. I, ch. 
xviii, xix, xxvi, xxvii, xxix, xxi, xxxiii, xxiv.) 

Chivery, Mrs. Wife of John Chivery, and keeper of a small 
tobacco-shop rounil the corner of Horsemonger Lane. (Bk. I, ch. 
xviii, xxii, xxv.) 

Cwnnam, Arthur. Reputed son, but really the adopted son, of 
Mrs. Clennam, He gives this account of himself to Mr. Meagles :— 

“Tam the son of a hard father and mother. Tam the only child of parents 
‘who weighed, measured, and priced every thing; for whom what could not be 
‘weighed, measured, and priced, had no existence. Strict people, as the phrase 
1s, professors of a storn religion, thelr very religion war a gloomy sacrifice of 
tastes and sympathice that were never thelr own, offered up #s a partof a 
‘bargain for the security of thelr possessions. Austere faces, inexorable discl- 
line, penance in thle world and terror in the next, nothing graceful or gentle 
‘anywhere, and the void in my cowed heart everywhere, —this was my child 
hood, if I may so misuse the word us to apply It to such a beginulng of 
Mie” 


At the age of twenty he had been sent to China to join his 
father, a merchant who had been living in that country for some 
years, taking care of the business there, while his mother managed 
the business at home. Ho stays thero till he is forty, and, his 
father then dying, he returns to London to sce his mother; but 
she receives him very coldly, as her old servant and confidential 
adviser Flintwinch also does. Finding a young woman in the 
Louse, who is called “ Little Dorrit,” and who is employed by his 
mother to do needle-work, and feeling a growing interest in her, he 
ascertains her history, and is the means of her father’s release from 
te Marshalsea, Being afterwards unfortenate in business, he ia 

* arrested for debt, and is thrown into the same prison; but he finds 
‘ fast friend in Little Dorrit, and, when he at Jast gains his liberty, 
the marries him. (Bk. I, ch. ii, ili, v, vil-x, xii-xvii, xxii, xxiv= 
xxvili, xxxi, xxii, xxxiv-xxxvi; BR I cb. ii, iv, vili-xi, xiii, xx, 


xii, xxiii, xxvi-xxxiv.) 








882 She Dickens Wictlonacy. 


Clennam, Mrs. ‘The supposed mother of Arthur Clennam, who 
‘turns out, however, to have been the child of another woman, whom 
his father had known before marrying Mrs, Clennam. She is a hard, 
stern woman, with cold gray eyes, cold gray hair, and an immov- 
able fice. Though an invalid, who bas lost the use of her limba, 
and is confined to a single room, she retains the full vigor of her 
mind, nnd is still, as she has always been, a thorough woman of busi 
ness. An austere moralist, a religionist whose faith is in a system 
of gloom and darkness, of vengeance and destruction, she yet does 
not hesitate to suppress a will by virtue of which two thousand 
guineas were to go to Little Dorrit on her coming of age. Finding 
that her guilt has been discovered, and is certain to be made 
known, she throws herself on the mercy of the girl she has so 
grievously wronged, and is freely forgiven. (Bk. I, ch. iii-v, viii, 
xy, xxix, xxx; Bk, Il, ch. x, xvii, xxiii, xxviii, xxx, xxi.) 

Cripples, Master. A white-faced boy, son of Mr. Cripples, 
(Bk. 1, ch. ix.) 

Cripples, Mr, Teacher of an academy for “evening tuition.” 
(Bk. I, ch. ix.) 

Dawes. A rosy-faced, gay, good-bumored nurse, who is Miss 
Wade’s special antipathy. 

Dorrit, Amy, called Lirrte Dorarr. Daughter of Mr. William 
Dorrit, She becomes the wife of Arthur Clennam. (Bk. 1, ch. tii, 
v-ix, xil-xvi, xviii-xxy, xxvii, xxix, xxxi, xxxii, xxxv, xxxvi; Bk. 
Wy, ch. i-viii, xi, xiv, xv, xix, xxiv, xxvi, xxvii, xxix-xxxi, xxxiii, 
xxxiv.) 

Dorrit, Hdward, called Tre, The brother of Little Dorrit; 
a spendthrift and an idler, for whom his sister is always calculating 
and planning, (Bk. I, ch. vi-viii, xii, xviii, xx, xxii, xxiv, xxxi, 
xxxy, xxxvi; Bk, IL, ch. |, iii, v, xi, xv, xix, xxiv, xxix, xxxiii, 
xxxiv.) 

‘Tip tired of every thing. . . . Hfls small second mother (his elster Amy] got 
him into a warehouse, into a market-garden, into the hop-trade, Into the law 
agnio, into an anctloaeer's, Into & brewery, Into a stockbrokers, Into the Inw 
agnin, into a conch-office, into a wagon-office, into the law again, into» general 
dealer's, into a distillery, Into the law again, into a woo!-house, into a dry-goods= 
house, into the Billingsgate trade, into the foreign frult-trade, und into the 
docks. But, whatever Tip went into, he came out of tired, announcing that he 
‘bad cut it, 

Dorrit, Fanny, Daughter of Mr. William Dorrit, and elder six 
tor of Amy, or * Little Dorri" She is, for a time, a ballet-dancer 


7 





Bittle Dorrit. 383 


but finally marries Mr. Edmund Sparkler, and rules him with a 
rod of iron. (Bk. I, ch. vi-ix, xviii, xx, xxxi, xxxv, xxxvl; Bk. II, 
ch. i-iii, v-vii, xi, xiv-xvi, xviii, xix, xxiv, xxiii, xxiv.) 

Dorrit, Mr, Frederick, Brother to Mr. William Dorrit. (Bk. J, 
ch, vii-ix, xix, xx, xvi; Bk. II, ch. i, iv, ¥, xix.) 

‘There was a ruined uncle fn the family group,—ruined by his broiber, the 
Father of the Marshalsea, and knowing no more how than his ruiner did, bat 
accepting the fact as an inevitable certainty. Naturally a retired and simple 
man, he had shown no particular sense of being ruined at the time when that 
calamity fell upon him, further than that he left off washing himself when the 
shock was announced, and never took to that luxury any more. He had beer 
avery indifferent musical amateur in his better days; and, when he foll with 
his brother, resorted, for support, to playing a clarionet as dirty as himself ing 
small theatre orchestra, 


Dorrit, Mr. William. A prisoner for debt in the Marehalsea; a 
shy, retiring man, woll-Jooking, though in an effeminate style, with 
a mild voice, curling hair, and irresolute hands. 


‘The afuirs of this debtor were perplexed by a partnership of which he knew 
‘no more than that he had invested money int; by legal matters of assignment 
and nottloment, conveyance here and conveyance there, suspicion of unlawful 
preference of creditors in this direction, and of mysterious spiriting away of 
nd, as nobody on the fuce of the earth could be more in- 
item in the heap of confusion than the debtor 
could be made of his case, ‘To question him 
|, and endeavor to reconcile his answers, to closet him with accountants 
and sharp practitioners learned In tho wiles of insolvency and bankruptey, was 
only to put the case out ut compound Interest of incomprehensibility, The ir- 
resolute fingers uttered more and more tneffectually about the trembling lip on 
every such occasion, and the eharpest practitioners gave him up ax a hopeless 
Job. 











His young wife joins him with their two children; and in a few 
months another child is born to them, a girl, from whom tho story 
takes its name. When this child is eight years old, his wife dics. 
Years pass by, and he becomes gray-haired and venerable, and ie 
known in the prison as the Father of the Marehalsea, —a title he 
grows to be very vain of, From an early period, his lite daughter 
devotes herself to the task of boing his support and protection, 
becoming, in all things but precedence, the head of the fallen fame 
ily, and bearing in her own heart its anxieties and shames. After 
twenty-five years spent within the prison walls, Mr. Dorrit proves to 
be heir-at-law to a great estate that has long remained, unknown of, 
unclaimed and accumulating. He leaves the Marshalsea a rich 
man: but that quarter of a century behind its bara haa done its 
york ; and he leaves it with a failing intellect, and makes himself 


— 


384 Ehe Dickens Mietfonary 


ridiculous by his pride, by the lofty airs he gives himself, and by his 
unwillingness to recall at any time the old days of his poverty and 
confinement. He declines slowly but surely, and at last dies In a 
palace at Rome, fancying it to be the Marshalsea. (Bk. J, ch. 
virix, xviii, xix, xxii, xxiii, xxxi, xxii, xxxv, xxxvi; Bk. Il, ch. 
ieiii, vevii, xii, xiii, xv-xix.) 

Doyce, Daniel. An engincer and inventor, who becomes the part- 
ner of Arthur Clennam. (Bk. I, ch. x, xii, xvi, xvii, xxiii, xxvi, 
xxviil, xxxiv; Bk, II, ch. viii, xili, xxii, xxvi, xxiv.) 

F’s Aunt, Mr. See Mn. F's Auxt. 

Finching, Mra. Flora. Danghter of Christopher Casby; a 
wealthy widow of some thirty-eight or forty years of age, sentimen- 
tal and affected, but thoroughly good-hearted. She talks with the 
most disjointed volubility, pointing her conversation with 
but commas, and very few of them, In this character Mr. Dickens 
has drawn the portrait of a married lady with whom, when a very 
Young man, he was deeply in love, and whom, as a young girl, he 
introduced into“ David Copperfield” as Dora, David's “ child-wife.” 
“The fancy had a comic humor in it,” says Forster, which “he 
found it impossible to resist, but it was kindly and pleasant to the 
last; and, if the later picture showed him plenty to laugh at in this 
retrospect of his youth, there was nothing he thought of more ten 
derly than the earlier, as long as he was conscious of any thing.” 

Most mon will be found sufficiently true to thomsclves to be true to an old 
idea. It sno proof of an inconstant mind, but exactly the opposite, when the 
ade will not bear close comparison with the reality; and the contrast fs m fatal 
shock to It, Such was [Arthur] Clenaam’s case, In his youth he had ardently 
Jored this woman, and had heaped upon her all the lockedup wealth of his 
affection and imagination, . . . Eyer since that memorable time, though he 
had, until the night of his arrival, as completely dismisaed her from any wasocl: 
ation with his present or future as If she hind been dead (which she might easily 
have been, for any thing he kuew), he had Kept the old fancy of the past, un- 
euanged, in its old sacred place. And now, after all, The Last of the Patriarcha 
[Mr, Cnsby] coolly walked into the parlor, saying, in elfect, + ISe good enough to 
throw it down and dance upon it: this is Flora.” 

Flora, always tall, had grown to be very broad too, and short of breath; but 
that was not much, Flora, whom he had loft a iily, had become a peony; but 
‘that was not mush. Fiors, who had scemed enchanting io all she saidrand 
thought, was diffuse and silly: that waa a good deal. Flora, who had been 
spoiled xnd artless long ago, was determined to be spoiled and artless now 
shat was a fatal blow. 


“Ok good gracions me I hope you never kept yourself a bachelor 40 long 
on my account!” tittered Flora; "but of course you never did why should you. 





| 


a 





Kittle Dorit. S85 


pray don’t unswor, I don’t know where "m running to, ob do tell me something 
about the Chinese Indies whether thelr eyes are really rolong and narrow stways 
putting me fn mind of mother-of-pearl tish at cards and do they really wear 
tail down thelr back, and plalted too or ta It only the men, and when they 
pall their hair so very tight off thelr foreheads don’t they hart themsetres, 
‘and why do they stick Little bells all over thelr bridges and temples and hace 
‘and things or don't they really do it” Flora gave him another of her old 
— Instantly she went on again, ss if be had spoken tn reply for some 


arte ft" all true and they really do! good gracious Arthur!—pray ex» 
‘suse mo— old hablt— Mr, Clennam far more proper what » country to lire 
an for so long a time, and with so many lanterns and umbrellas too how 
very dark and wet the climate ought to be and no doubt actually is, and the 
sams of money that must be mado by thove two trades whore oversbody 
carries them and hangs them everywhere, the little shoes too and the fect 
screwed back n Infancy 4s quite surprising. what a traveller you are!” 

In this ridlcalous distress, Clennam reoelved anothor of the old glances, 
without in the least knowing what to do with it. 

“Dear dear,” suid Flora, ‘only to think of the changes at home Arthur 
cannot overcome it, seems #0 natural, Mr. Clenmain far more proper—since 
you became familiar with the Chinese custome and language which I am por 
suaded you speak like a native if not better for you were always quick and 
clever though immensely difficult no doubt, { am sure the toa-chests alone 
would kill me if I tried, such changes Arthur—I am doing it again, seems 
40 natural, most tmproper—ae no one could have believed, who could have 
‘ever imagined Mra, Finching when I can't dmagine it myself!” 

‘Is that your married name?” asked Arthur, struck, in the midst of all 
this, by a certain warmth of heart that expressed itelf in her tone when 
ho referred, however oddly, to the youthful relation in which they had atood 
tooue another. ¥inching?” 

“Flching oh yes, is n't It a dreadful name, but as Mr. F.said when he pro- 
pored to me which he did seven times and handsomely consented [ must say to 
be what he used to call on liking twelvemonths after all, he was n't answerable 
Jor it and could n’t help it could he, excellent man, not af ail Like you but exeel- 
lent man!" 

(Bk. I, ch. xiii, xxiii, xxiv, xxxv3 Bk. Il, ch. ix, xvii, xxiii, xxxiv.) 

Flintwinch, Affery, An old servant of Mrs. Clennam’s; wile of 
Jeremiah Flintwinch. She is apt to fall into » dreamy sleep-wak- 
ing state, much to the displeasure of her husband, who tells her, 
“If you ever have a dream of this sort again, it ‘Il be a sign of 
your being in want of physic, and I'll give you such a dose, old 
woman, — such a dose!" (Bk. I, ch. ili-v, xv, xxix, xxx; Bk. I, 
ch. x, xvii, xxiii, xxx, xxi.) 

flintwinch, Ephraim. A lunatic-keeper; Jeremiah’s “ doubie” 
and confederate. (Bk. I, ch. ir; Bk. TI, ch. xxx.) 

Flintwinch, Jeremiah. Servant and afterwards partner of Mra 
Clennam. He isa short, bald o:d man, bent and dried, with a oag 


sided crab-like manner of locomotion, 















B36. The Dickens Wietlonary. 


‘His neck was so twisted, that the knotted ende of his white cravat usually 
angled under one ear; his natural acerbity and energy, always 
with a second nature of habitual repression, gave his features @ swollen 
sutused look; and, altogether, be had a weird appearance of having hanged 
himself at one time or other, and of having gone about ever since, halter and 
all, exactly as some timely hand had eut him down. 


(Bk. I, ch. iii-v, xv, xxix, xxx; Bk. II, ch. x, xvii, xxili, xxviil, 
‘XXX, Xxxi.) 
General, Mrs. A widow-lady of forty-five, whom Mr. Dorrlt 
engages to “form the mind” and manners of his daughters. 


In person, Mrs. General, including her skirts, which had much to do with tt, 
‘was of a dignified and imposing appearance; ample, rustling, gravely voluml- 
nous, alvways upright behind the proprietios, She might have been taken —bad 
‘been taken—to the top of the Alps and the bottom of Herculaneum, without 
disarranging a fold in her dress, or displacing w pin. If her countenance and 
hair had rather # fours appearance, as though from living In some trauscen- 
dently gentee! mil, it was rather because she was a chalky creation altogether, 
than Because she mended her complexion with violet-powder, oF had turned 
gray. If her eyes had no expreaaton, it waa probably because they had nothing 
to express, If sho had few wrinkles, It was because her mind hod never 
traced its name or any other inscription on her fuce. A cool, waxy, blowu-out 
‘woman, who had never lighted well, 

Mrs. General had no opinions. Her way of forming a mind was to prevent 
St from forming opinions. She had a little elrcular set of mental grooves, oF 
rails, on which she started little trains of other people's opinions, which never 
overtook one another, and never got anywhere. Even her propriety could not 
dispute that there was impropriety in the world; but Mrs. General's way of 
setting rid of 1t-was to pat it out of sight, and make belleve that there wax no 
such thing. ‘This was another of her ways of forming a mind,—to eram all 
articles of difficulty into cupboards, lock them up, and aay they had no exist- 
enon, ft was the easlost way, and, beyond all comparison, the properest. 

‘Mrs. General was not to be tald of any thing shocking. Accidents, miseries, 
and offences were never to be mentioned before her. Passion was to go to aleop 
inthe presenos of Mrs, General, and blood was to change to milk and water, ‘The 
Uttle that was left in the world when all these deductions were made, It was 
Mrs. General's province to varnish. In that formation-process of hers she 
dipped the amalinst of brushes into the largast of pots. and varnished the 
surface of every object that came under consideration. The more cracked if 
‘was, the more Mrs. General varnished it, 

Observing that Amy Dorrit calls Mr. Dorrit “father,” Mrs 
General informs her that “ papa” is a preferable mode of address, 

© Futher fs rather vulgar, my dear. The word ‘papay besides, gives = 
pretty form to the Ips. apa, potatoes, pooitry, prunes, and prism, are alf 
wary good words for the lips; especially prunes and prism. Yoo will find i* 
serviceable in the formation of u demeanor. if you yomctlmes vay to yourselt 
1m company, —on entering @ room, for Instance = Tapa, potatoes, poultry 
prunes, and prism, prunes, and prism.” 

“ Pray. my child,” said Mr. Dorrit, “ sttend to the — bum — precepts of Eire 
General.” 

















Mlttle Dorrit. 887 


Poor Little Dorrit, with a rather forlorn glanee at that eminent varalsher, 
Fromised to try. 

You say, Amy;" pursued Mr. Dorrit, “that you think you require time 
Thine for what?” 

Another pause. 

*'fo become accustomed to the novelty of my life, was all T meant.” said 
Little Dorrit, with her loving eyes upon her father, whom she had very nearly 
addressed as poultry, if aot prunes and prista too, in her desire to submit bers 
‘elf to Mrs. General, and please him, 

(Bk. If, ch. i-v, vil, xi, xv, xix.) 

Gowan, Henry. An artist, who marries Miss Minnie Meagles. 
(Bk. L, ch. xvii, xxvi, xxviii, xxxili, xxiv; Bk. Il, ch. §, iif-vill, 
xi, xiv, xvii, xx, xxi, xxxiii-) 

_ Tho Gowan farally were a very distant ramification of the Harnacles; and 
+++ the paternal Gowan, originally attached to # legation abroad, had been 
pensioued off as a commissioner of nothing particular somewhere or other,and 
had died at his post with his drawn salary in hix hand, nobly defending it to the 
last extremity. In consideration of this eminent publio service, the Barnacle 
then tn powerhad recommended the crowu to bostow a pension of two or three 
hundred a year on bis widow; to which the next Barnacle In powor had added 
‘certain shady and sedate apartments in the palace wt Hampton Court, where 
the old lady stitl Lived, deploring the degenerncy of the times, im company with 
‘several other old ladies of both sexes. Her son Mr, Henry Gowan, inheriting 
from his father, the commissioner, that very questionable help in life, a very 
mall independence, had been difficult to settle; the rather as public appolat- 
‘ments chanced to be scarce, and his genius during his earlier manhood was of 
‘that exclusively agricultural character which applies itself to the cultivation 
‘of wild oats. At last he hnd declared that he would become a painter; partly 
‘because ho had always had an {dle knack that way, and partly to grieve the souls 
of the Barnactes in chief who had not provided for him. So it had come to pass 
successively, frst, that sovernl distinguished ladies had been frightfully shocked; 
then that portfolios of his performances had been handed about o! nights, and 
declared with ecstacy to be perfect Clandes, perfect Cayps, perfect phenomena; 
then that Lord Decimus had bought his picture, and had asked the president 
‘and oounoll to dinner at a blow, and had sald with his own magnificent gravity, 
“Do you know, there appears to me to be really immense merit in that work?” 
‘and, in short, that people of condition had absolutely taken pains to being him 
{ote fashion. But somehow it had all failed. The prejudiced public had atood 
‘out against it obstinately. ‘They had determined not to admire Lord Deokmuy's 
pleture. They had determined to believe, that in every service, except thelr 
‘own, # mui must qual!fy himself, by striving, early and late, and by workicg 
heart and soul, might and main, 

Gowan, Mrs. His mother; a courtly old lady, a little lofty in 
her manner. (Bk. I, ch. xvii, xvi, xxiii, xxiv; Bk. Il, ch. v, 
viii.) 

Gowan, Mrs. Henry. See Meaotes, Mrenie, 

Haggage, Doctor. A poor debtor in the Marshalsea; a hoarse, 
puffy, red-faced, dirty, brandy-drinking, medical searecrow, who 
assists Little Dorrit into the world. (Bk. J, ch. vi, vii.) 








388. Ede Dickens Mictlo rary. 


Jenkinson, A messenger at the Circumlocution Office, (Bk. f, 
ch. xy 

Lagnier. See Ricaup. 

Maggy. A grand-daughter of Mrs. Bangham’s, and a protégée of 
Little Dorrit's; afterwards an assistant to Mra. Plornish. (Bk. I, 
ch. ix, xiv, xx, xxii, xxiv, xxi, xxxii, xxxv, xxxvi; Bk. Il, eh. iii, 
iv, xiii, xxix, xxxili, xxxiv.) 

Sho was about eight and twenty, with large bones, large features, large feet 
and hands, large eyes, and uo hair. Her largo eyes were limpid and almoat color 
Joes: thay seemed to be very little affucted by light, and to stand unusturally still, 
‘There was also that attentive, Listening expression in her foe, which is seem 
in the faces of the blind; bat she was not blind, having one tolerably serviece- 
ble eye, Her fice was not excoedingly ugly, though it was only redeemed from 
deing so by & smile, —~s good-humored smile, and pleasent in Itself, but rendered 
pitiable by being constantly there. 

When Maggy was ten years old,” sald Dorrit (to Arthur Clennam}, wateb- 

{ing her fico while she «poke, “she bad a bad fever, sir; and she has never 

grown any older ever since.” - 

“Ten years old,” said Maggy, nodding her head, * But what @ nice hom 
pital! So comfortable; wasn't it? Oh, so nice it was! Such a ev’nly place!” 
“She had never been at peace before, sir,” anid Dorrit, turning towards 

Arthur for an fastant, and speaking low, ‘and she always runs off upon that.” 
+ Such beds there ia there!” cried Maggy. * Such lemonades! Such oranges t 

‘Such diiictous broth and wine! Such chicking! Ob, ALN'r it w delightful plnce 

to go and stop at!™ 
“80 Maggy stopped there as long a4 sho could." sald Dorrit in her former 

tone of telling n child's story, the tone designed for Moggy”s ear; “ and.at last, 

‘when she could stop there no longer, she came out. ‘Then, because she was 

never to be more than ten yours old, however long she lived” — 

* However long sho lived,” echoed Maggy. 
“And because she was very weak; {ndced, was so weak, that, when sbe 

Dogan to laugh, she could n't stop herself, which was a great pity” — 


(Maggy mighty grave of a eudden.) 
“ Her grandmother did not know what to do with her, and for some years 


‘was very unkind to her indeed. Atlength, in course of time, Maggy began to 
take pains to improve herself, and to be very attentive and very industrious; 
‘aud, by degrees, waa nllowod to come in and out as often as abe Uked, and got 
‘enough to do to support herself. And that,’ said Little Dorrit, elapping the 
two great bands together again, “1s Maggy" history, as Maggy knows |” 

Maroon, Captain. A horsejockey; one o° Mr. Edward Dorrit's 
creditors. (Bk. I, ch. xii.) 

Marshalsea, Father of the. See Dornrr, Mn. Wizx1am. 

Meagles, Mr. A retired banker, good-natured and benevolent. 
an always priding himself on being a practical man. (Bk. I, ob 
ii, x, xii, xvi, xvii, xxiii, xxvi-nsix, xxxiii, xxxiv; Bk. I, ch. vilis 
%, xxxili, xxxiv.) 














Bittle Movett 389 


Meagles, Mrs. [fis wife; a comely and healthy woman, with a 
pleasant English face, which, like her husband's, has been looking 
at homely things for five and fifty years or more, and shines with a 
bright reflection of them. (Bk. I, ch. {i, xvi, xvii, xxvill, xxxill, 
xxxiv; Bk. II, ch. vill, ix, xxiii, xxxiv.) 

Meagles, Minnie, called Per. Their daughter; afterwards the 
wife of Mr. Henry Gowan. (Bk. I, ch. ii, xvi, xvii, xvi, xxviii, 
xxxiv; Bk. IL, ch. i, iii, ivevili, xi, xxviii, xxxii 


Pot was nbout twenty,—a fiir girl with rich brown hair hanging fee In 
batural ringlets; a lovely girl, with a frank face and wonderful eyes, £0 
lunge. #0 soft, 40 eight, set to such perfection In her kind good head! She was 
round and fresh and dimpled and spolit, and there was in Pet an alr of timidity 
‘and dependenoe which was the best weakness in the world, and gare her the 
‘unly crowning charm a girl so pretty and pleasant could have been without. 


Merdle, Mr, A London banker, who, after running a remarkably 
successful eareer, becomes a bankrupt, and commits suicide. (Bk. 
I, ch. xxi, xxxiii; Bk. I, ch. y, vii, xii-xvi, xvili, xix, xxiv, sexy, 
xxviii.) 


Mr. Merdle was immensoly rich: a man of prodigious enterprise; a Midas 
without the ears, who tarned all he touched to gold. He wns tn every thing 
‘good, from banking to building. He was in parliament, of course. He was in 
the elty, necessarily, He was chairman of this, trustee of that, preddent of 
the other, The weightiest of men had said to projectors, “« Now, what name 
have you got? Have you got Merdle?" And, the reply being in the negative, 
had said,“ Then I won't look mt you? . . « 

He was the most disinterested of men, — did every thing for soclety, and got 
‘as little for himself, out of all his gain and care, asa man might. 

‘That Is to say, It may bo supposed that he got all he wanted, otherwise, with 
unlimited wealth, he would have got it, But his desire was, to the utmost, 
to satisfy soctety (whatever that was), and take up all ite drafts upon him for 
tribute. He did not shine In company; he had not very much to say for hitn- 
self; he was n reserved man, with a broad, overhanging. watchful head, that 
particular kind of dull red color in his cheeks which {s rather stale than fresh, 
nd asomewhat uneasy expression about his coat-cuffy as if they were in hie 
oniidence, and had reasons for being anxious to hide his hands. In the tittle 
he said, he was # pleasant man enough; plain, emphatic about public and pri- 
vate confidence, and tenacious of the utmost deference belng shown by every 
‘ne, In all things, to society, In this same society (if that were it which camo 
to his dinners, and to Mrs. Merdie’s receptions and concerts), he hnntly teemed 
to enjoy himself much, and was mostly to be found against walls, and behind 
doors, Also when he went out to it, instead of it* coming home to him 
seomed n littlo fatigued, and, upon the whole, rather more dispored for bed; but 
‘he was always cultivating it, nevertheless, and always moving int, aud always 
Tnylng out money on it with the greatest Mberality. 


Merdle, Mrs. His wife, and the mother of Mr. Edmund Sparkler; 
a very fashionable lady. 
a 




















_ == 





390 Ede Vckens Wietfonary. 


‘The lady was not young and fresh from the hand of Nature, but wa young wend 
fresh from the hwo’ of her maid. She had large, unfeeling, handsome eyes, 
and dark, unfteling, handsome hair, and a broad, wnfecling, handsome bosom, 
and was mado the most of in every particular, Rither because she had a cold, of 
‘because it sulted her face, she wore w rich white fillet tled over her head, wud 
under her chin. And if ever there were an unfeeling, handsome chin, that looked 
4 If, for certain, it had never been, ia familiar parlance, “chuckod¥ by the 
hand of man, It was the chin curbed up #0 tight and clove by that laced 
Bridie. 


(Bk. I, ob. xx, xxi, xxiii; Bk. IL, ch. iti, v, vii, xii, xiv-xvi, xix, 


xxiv, xxv, xxiii.) 


Mr. F.'s Aunt. A singular old lady, who ts a logacy left to Mra. 
Flora Finching by her deceased husband. “ 


‘This was an amazing little old woman, with m face liko a staring wooden doll, 
(too cheap for expression), and a stiff yellow wig perched unevenly on the 
top of her head, ax if the child who owned the doll had driven «tack through It 
‘anywhere, so that it only got fastened on. Another remarkable thing tn this 
Hidle old woman was, that (he same clilld seemed to have damaged her fuee in 
two or three plnoos with some blunt Instrument in the nature of a spoon; her 
countenance, and particularly the tip of her nose, presenting the phenomons of 
acreral dints, generally answering to the bow! of that article. A further re- 
markable thing in this Little old woman was, that she bad no name but Mr. F.’« 
Aunt. 

‘The major characteristics discoverable by the stranger in Mr. F-'* Aunt were 
‘extreme severity and grim taciturnity, sometimes interrupted by a propensity 
to offer remarks, in a deep warning voice, whieh, belng totally uncalled for by 
‘any thing said by anybody, and traceable to no association of ideas, confounded 
‘and terrified the mind. Mr, F.’s Aunt may have thrown 1a these observations 
on some system of her own, and It may have been ingenious, or even subtle; but 
the key to t was wanted. 


(Bk. I, ch. xili, xxiil, xxiv, xxv; Bk. Il, ch. ix, xxiv.) 
Nandy, John Edward. Father to Mrs Plornish; an old man 
with a weak piping voice, though his daughter considers him “a 
sweet singer.” (Bk. I, ch. xiii; Bk. 1, ch. xiii, xvi, xvii.) 
Pancks, Mr. Mr. Casby’s collector of rents. 


Ho was [a short, dark man] dressed in black and rusty tron-gray; had Jete 
Diack beads of eyes, a scrubby little black chin, wiry black hair striking owt from 
his head i prongs, ke Yorks or hairping, and complexion that was very 
dingy by nature, or very dirty Ly art, or a compound of nature and art. Hehad 
dirty hands and dirty broken nails, and looked as if he had been tn the comls; 
ho was In m perspiration. and snorted and eniifed and puffed and blew like = 
little laboring steam-engine, 


Though the agent of a man, who, despite his benevolent and 
patriarchal air, is a hard, avaricious old sinner, and though, ig 
accordance with his instructions, he periodically squeezes and han 
asses his employer's tenants, he is by no means a cruel or un 




















Bittle Dorrit. 391 


generous man. Indeed, he is so chafod and exasperated by the 
disagreeable nature of his work, and by the hypocrisy of his * pro» 
prictor,” that he makes up his mind to seek some other occupation 
Meeting Mr. Casby, one day, in Bleeding Heart Yard, 


Golng clase up to the moxt venerable of men, and halting In front of the bettle 
green waistcoat, {he} made a trigger of his right thumb nud forefinger, sppliod 
the same to the beim of the broad-brimmed hat, and, with singular smartness and 
procixion, shot Mt off the pollahed head us if it had been a large marble. 

Haying taken this little liberty with the patriarchal person, Mr. Pancks 
further astounded and attructed the Bleeding Hearts by saying in an audible 
‘voloe, “ Now, you sugary #windler, I mean to have it out with you!” 

‘Me, Panoks and the patriarch were instantly tho centre of  pross, all eyes and 
ears: windows were thrown open, and door-steps were thronged, 

“What do yoa pretend to be?” sald Mr. Pancks. What’ your moral game? 
‘What do you go In for? Benevolence; an’t tt? You benevolent!" Here Mr, 
Pancks, apparently without the Intention of hitting him, but meroly to reliove 
his mind, and expand his superfluous power in wholesome exercise, aimed a blow 
at the bumpy head, which the bumpy head ducked to avold. This singular per- 
formance was repeated, to the ever-incrensing admiration of the spectators, at 
the end of every aucceoding article of Mr. Pancks's oration. 

“T have discharged myself from your service,” aald Pancks, “that I may tell 
you what you are. You ‘re ons of alot of Impostors that are the worst lot of all 
ithe lots to be met with. .., You're a driver In disguise, w screwor by deputy, a 
‘wringer and squeezer and shaver by substitute! Youre # philanthropic sneak! 
‘You "re a shabby deceiver!” 

(The repetition of the performance at this polnt was recelved with a burst of 
fanghter,) 

“ Aak these good people who's the hard man here. ‘They'll tell you Pancks, 
Ldelieve.” 

‘This was confirmed with ories of “Certainly!” and “ Heart” 

“But I tell you, good people, —Casby! This mound of meckness, this lump of 
Jove, this bottle-green amiler,—this Is your driver!" said Pancks. “If you want to 
peo the man who would flay you alive, here heist Don't look for him in me, at thirty 
shillings a week, but look for him in Casby, at I don’t know how much a year.” 

“Good!” cried several voices. “ Hear Mr. Pancks!”” 

“Hear Mr. Pancks?” cried that gentleman (after repeating the popular per- 
formance), “yes, I should think sof It% mlmost time to hear Mr, Pancks! 
‘Mr. Puncks has come down into the yard to-night on purpose that you should 
hear him. Pancks is only the works; but here ’s the winder!” 

‘The audience would have gone over to Mr. Pancks as one man, woman, nd 
ebild, but for the long, gray, silken locks, and the brond-brimmed hat, 

“Here” the stop,” aald Pancks “that sets the tune to be ground. And there 
& but one tune, and tts name f# Grind, Grind, Grind! Here 's the proprietor. 
and here’s his grabber, ., . “He provides the pitch, and I handle tt, and tt 
sticks to me, Now," sald Mr. Pancks, closing upon his late proprietor again, 
from whom he had withdrawn # little for the better display of Lim to the yard, 
“as Lam not accustomed to speak in pablio, and as I have made # rather lengthy 
speech, alt etroumstences considered, I shall bring my observations to » clos by 
requesting you to Ret out of this.” 

‘The Last of the Patriarchs had been so welzed by assault, and required se 
‘auch room to catch an ides in, end so much more room tc turn {¢ io, that he 


a 




















B92 The Dickens Dietlo rary. 


‘had Hot a word to offer in reply. He appeared to be meditating somo patrl 
‘archal wny out of hls delicate position, when Mr. ancks onos more, anddenly 
applylug the trigger to his hat, shot ft off again with his former dexterity. Ow 
the preceding oocision, one or two of the Bleeding-Heart-Yarders had obrequi 
ourly picked ft up, and handed it to te owner; but Mr, Pancks had #o far tne 
pressed his audience, that the patriarch had to turn, and stoop for it himself. 

‘Quick as lightning, Mr. Pancks, who for some moments had had his right 
hand In his comt-pocket, whipped out a palr of shears, swooped upon the putrt- 
arch behind, and sn{pped off short the snored locks that flowed upon his 
shoulders. In a paroxyam of animosity and rapidity, Mr. Pancks then 
the brond-brimmed hnt out of the astounded patriarch’s hand, eat tt down into 
‘mere stewpan, and fixed it on the patriarch’s head, 

Before the frightful results of thia desperate action Mr. Pancks himself re- 
colled In consternation. A bare-polled, goggleesed, big-headed, lumbering 
personage stood staring wt him, not In the least impressive, not in the lenxt 
‘venerable, who seemed to have started outof the earth to ask what was become 
of Caiby. After staring ut this phantom Ia return, in silent awe, Mr. Pancka 
threw down his shears, and flod for a plaoe of biding, whore he might Ife shel: 
tered from the consequences of his crime. Mr. Pancks deemed it prudent to 
use all posalble despatch in making off, though he was paraued by nothing but 
the sound of laughter in Bleeding Heart Yard, rippling througt the alr, and 
making it ring again. 

(Bk. T, ch, xii, xili, xxili-xxv, xxvii, xxix, xxxil, xxxiv, xxxvj 
Bk. II, ch. ix, xi, xiii, xvii, xx, xxii, xxvi, xxviii-xxx, xxxil, 
xxxiv.) 

Patriarch, The. See Caspr, Canistoraer. 

Pet. See Mracuxs, Mixxre. 

Plornish, Mr, A plasterer living in Bleeding Heart Yard; one 
of Mr. Casby’s tenants, and a friend of Little Dorrit’s; a smooth. 
cheeked, fresh-colored, sandy-whiskered man of thirty; long in the 
logs, yielding at the knees, foolish in the face, flannel-jacketed, 
Time-whitencd. (Bk. J, ch. vi, ix, xii, xxili, xxiv, xxi, xxxvi; Bk. 
IL ch. iv, xiii, xxvii, xxix.) 

Plornish, Mrs, His wife; a young woman, made somewhat #late 
ternly in herself and her belongings by poverty ; and ¢o dragwed at 
by poverty and the children together, that thelr united forces have 
already dragged her face into wrinkles. (Bk. I, ch. vi, xii, xiii, 
xxxi; Bk. Il, ch. iv, xiii, xxvi, xxvii, xxix, xxx.) 

Rigaud, alias Buaxpors, alias Laanier. A chevalier d'industria, 
with polished manners, but a scoundrel’s heart, Having murdered 
his wife, and boon lodged in © French jail, ho contrives to effect 
his escape, and flees to England. Gaining a knowledge of Mre 
Clennam’s frauds, he tries to wring from her a very large amount 
of hush-money, but is killed by the sudden falling of the house ip 
which he is waiting for her, 














Bittle Dorett. 393 


His eyes, too clove together, . . . were sharp rathe: hanbright ,.. . They 
‘had no depth or chango: they glittered, and they opeced nnd shut. So fr, and 
‘waiving their use to himself, a clockmaker could have mate a better pair. He 
had a hook nose, handsome after its Kind, but too high between theeyes by 
probably Just as much as his eyes were too near to one another, For the rest, 
owas Inrge wnd tall in frame, had thin lips (where his thick mustache showed 
‘them nt all), and a quantity of dry halr, of uo detinablo color in ite shaggy slate, 
‘bat shot with red. 

(Bk. I, ch. i, xi, xxix, xxx; Bk. If, ch. i, fil, vi, vil, Ix, x, xvil 
Xx, xxii, xxili, xxviii, xxx, xxi, xxiii.) 

Rugg, Miss Anastasia. Daughter of Mr. Rugg. She has little 
nankeen spots, like shirt-buttons, all over her face; and her yellow 
tresses are rather scrubby than luxuriant, (Bk. I, ch. xxv; Bk. 
Ul, ch. xvi, xxviii.) 

‘Miss Ragg was n lady of a little property, which she had acquired, together 
‘with much distinction in the nelghborhood, by haying her heart severely Incor 
‘sted, and ber feolings mangled. by m middle-aged baker (named Hawkins), real- 
‘dont in the vicinity, against whom she had, by the agency of Mr. Rugg, found 
St necessary to proceed at law to recover damages form breach of promise of 
marriage, ‘The baker having been, by the counsel for Miss Rugg. witheringly 
denounced on that occasion up to the full amount of tweaty guineas, st the rate 
‘of about eighteen-pence an epithet, and having boen cast In corresponding 
damages, still suffered occasional prosecution from the youth of Pentonville; 
but Miss Rugg, environed by the majesty of the law, and having her damages 
Anveated in the public securities, was regarded with consideration. 

Rugg, Mr. A general agent, accountant, and collector of debts, 
who is Mr. Pancks’s landlord. He has a round white visage, —as 
if all his blushes had been drawn out of him long ago,—and 
aragged yellow head like a worn-out hearth-broom. (Bk. I, ch. 
Rxv, xxii, xxxy, xxxvi; Bk. II, ch. xxvi, xxviii, xxxiv.) 

Sparkler, Mr. Edmund. Son of Mrs. Merdle by her first hus- 
band. He marries Fanny Dorrit, considering her to be “a young 
lady with no nonsense about her.” (Bk. I, ch. xx, xxi, xxxiii; Bk, 
O, ch. iii, vi, vil, xii, xiv-xvi, xviii, xxiv, xxxiil.) 

‘Mrs. Merdie’s first husband had been a colonel, under whose susploes the 
Borom had entered tnto eompetition with the snows of North America, and 
‘bad come off at little disadvantage in polnt of whiteness, and at none in point of 
aoldness, The colonel’s son was Mre. Merdie’* only child. He wns of a ctuckle- 
headed, high-shouldered make, with a general appearance of being not so much 
young man as a swelled boy. He had giren so few signs of reason, that a 
byword went among his companions, that his brain had beon frozen up in a 
mighty frost which prevailed at St John, New Brunswick, at the period of 
his birth there, and had nerer thawed from that hour. Another byword repre- 
sented him ax having in his Infaney, through the negligence of a nurse, fallon 
out of a high window on his bead, whieh had been heard, by responsible wit- 
nesses, to crack. It is probable that both these representations were of ex post 
Jucto origin; the young gentleman {whose expressive namo was Sparklor’ being 
‘wonomaniacal In offering marriage to all manwer of undesirable young ladies, 


>_>. 

















B94 The Dickens Wictlonarp. 


and jn remarking of every successive young Indy to whom he tendere! a matte 
‘monial proposal, that yhe was ‘a doosed fine gal, well educated too, with no 
Diggodd nonsense about her.” 

Sparkler, Mrs. Edmund. See Dorrit, Fanxy. 

Btiltstalking, Lord Lancaster. A gray old gentleman of dig 
nified and sullen appearance, whom the Cireumlocution Office has 
maintained for many years as a representative of -he Britannie 
majesty abroad. (Bk, I, ch. xxvi.) 

‘Thi: noble refrigerator had Ioed several European courts in his time, and had 
doar 4, with ruch complete success, that the very name of Englishman yet struck 
‘vid to the stomachs of foreigners who had the distinguished honor of remem- 
bering him at a distance of a quarter of a century. 

Tattycoram, See Brapur, Hanater. 

Tickit, Mrs. Mr. Meagles’s cook and housekeeper. She makes 
Buchan’s “ Domestic Medicine" her constant vade-mecum, though 
she is believed never to have consulted it to the extent of a singls 
word in her life. (Bk. I, ch. xvi, xxiv; Bk, IT, ch. ix, xxxiii.) 

Tinkler. Mr. William Dorrit’s valet. (Bk. II, ch. ili, v, xv, xix.) 

Tip. See Donarr, Epwarp. 

‘Wade, Miss. A woman with a sullen and ungovernable temper, 
a self-tormentor, who fancics that wrongs and insults are heaped 
upon her on every side. Finding a kindred spirit in Tattyeoram, 
the adapted child of Mr. Meagles, she entices the girl to leave that 
excellent couple, and live with her, and, when she has done 80, 
makes and keeps her as miserable, suspicious, and tormenting as 
herself. But Tattycoram grows tired of such a life, and at length 
returns, repentant and grateful, to her old master and mistress. 

‘One could hardly see the face, so stil'and scornful, set off by the arched dark 
eyebrows and the folds of dark hair, without wondering what its expression 
would be ifm change came over tt. ‘That if could soften or relent appeared 
next to impossible. That it could deepen into anger or any extreme of defle 
wuce, and that it must change in that direction, when {t ehavged at all, would 
have been {ts pecullar impression upon most observers. Tt was dressed and 
trimmed into no ceremony of expression, Although not an open face, there 
‘was no pretence in it. I am self-contained and selfreliant; your opinion ts 
nothing to me; I hare no iaterest fn you, care nothing for you, and see and 
hear you with indifference, —this it raid platnly, It sald 90 ln the proud eyen, 
4n the lifted nostril, in the handsome but compressed and even cruel mouth, 
Cover elther two of those channels of expression, and the third would have 
sald so still. Mask them all, and the mere turn of the head would have shows 
au unsubduable nature. 

(Bk. I, ch. ii, xvi, xxvii, xxviii; Bk. Il, ch. ix, x, xx, xxi, 
xxxiii.) 

Wobbler, Mr. A functionary in the secretarial department of the 
Ciroumlocution Office. (Bk. I, ob. x.) 











Bittle Doreit 895 


PRINCIPAL INCIDENTS. 


BOOK T,~Cnarren [. Rigand and Cavalletto, tn prison In Marvelltes, have thotr fon’ 
brought them by the Jailer and his Wttle daughters Rigaud gives Cavalletto the reason of 
his traprtsonment; Migand [a carried out to his trinl.—IL. Mr. Mengles is Impationt at the 
otention in quarantine; Mz, Mengles elves Arthar Clennam an account of Tartyeoras 
‘and how they adopted her; confidence between Sr. Meagles and Mr. Clennam, ta while’ 
‘some of the ciroumstances In the history of each are narrated: Miss Wade's indifference 
‘as varting with hor fellow-travellers; her Influences over Tattycoram, who shows signs 
of discontent. 111. Arthur Clennam arrives home on & disnal Sunday evening, after an 
atwonce of twenty years; be fs rocelved without any emotion by the old serving-man, 
Jeremiah Fimtwinch, and as coldly welcomed by is mother; Affery elves Arthur some 
ints of the relations existing between his mother and Fllntwinch, and tells him how slve 
‘exmo to inary Jeremiah; Arthurhse hie memory of an ol sweetheart revived. —1¥. Mrs. 
Flinewinch sees, * in a dream,” Jeremiah and his “Double,” whom be tntrusts with ax 
Srom box, and diaimes from the house. —V. Arthur Clennara consalte with hie mother i 
regard lo the business of the house; he tntimates his suspicion that his father had unbap- 
pily committed « wrong against some ome without making reparation she threatens to 
‘enounce bin If ho ever renews the theme; Arthur relinquishes his share of the business, 
‘which the widow bestows upon Jeremiah; Little Dorrit appears tn attendance on Mre 
Clennam; Arthar resolves to watch her, and know more of her atory.— VI. Mr. Dorrit 
and bis family enter the Marshalsea: Little Dorrit is born; death of Mra. Dorrit; Mr. 
Dorrit becomes the Father of th Marshalsea. — VIL, Little Dorrit becomes the pet of the 
prison, and, as she grows older, the princtpal supportof ber futher, and the head of the fallen, 
Saraily : Ttp, after repeated failures to socoved tn busters, comox back to the Marshalsen 
asaregular; Arthar traces Little Dorrit to the Marahalsoa. — VILL, He encounters Fred- 
‘erick Dorrit, who takes him into the prison, and introduces hima to Mr. Derrits Me. Doreit 
wives him the histary of a delicate action; Mr. Clennam ts locked In, and «pends tho night 
In prison, — IX. Arthur sends Little Dorrit a request to meot him at her uncle's lodgings: 
‘ho questions her about the family reverses in the hope of releasing Mr. Dorrit; they meet 
‘Maggy In the street, and who Maggy 1s. — X. Tha Circumlocution Oaice, and ita principle 
of How Sor To Do Fr; Arthur Cleniam makes Inquiries at the Clreumlocation Oftee about 
Mr, Dorrit’s creditors, but gots no information; he encounters Mr. Meagles and Daniel 
Doyce; who Daniel Doyee is, and how he came in the Cireunloeution Omee; the party 
Bo to Bloeding Heare Yard. —XI- Rigand, released by the law, arrives in Chalons, and 
‘tope at a cabaret, where he hears his character discussed, and his erlme denounced, by the 
‘quests; gulng to bed, he recognizes in the man who shares bis room his old companiun, 
Cavalletto; Cavalletto excapos from him in the morning. — XI. Clennam finds Mr. and 
ara. Plorniab, friends of Little Dorrit: through Me. Plornih he compromises for Tip's 
Kebts, and secures his release. —XII1. Arthur renews his acquaintance with Mr. Casby; 
misets Mr. Pancha, Mr. Casby’s agent, and has the Flora of his early Jove and after-roooTleo 
‘ons destroyed ty an interview with the actual Piora; Arthur's Introduction to" Mr. F.7s 
Aunt," who makes some vory pertinent remarks; Arthur and Mz, Pancks return to the olny 
together; leaving Pancks, Arthur encounters Cavalletto, borne on a litter, lis log broken, 
‘and accompanies him to « hospital; Arthur's sorrowful meditations are laterrapted by the 
entrance of Little Doreit and Maggy. XIV, She tells lil Tip Is relesed, and how she 
‘would thank bia benefactor if allowed to know him; her ausplclona that Filotwine® has 
weatctiod her, and followed er home; she begs Arthur not to bestow any gift apon her 
ever: Little Dorrit and Maggy spond tho wight ta the street. — XY. Mes, Plintwineh 
treacns again, and hears an angry conversation between her husband and Mrs Clennam. 
=XYVL Mr. Clennam goes to Twickenham to renew his acquaintance with the Mesglees 
aud overtakes Daniel Doyoo going there also; Mr. Meaglos shows them Ils house and 
sariotities: Arthar auctions whether ae should allow himself (o fal in love with Pet, ane 






































396 Che Wickens Wittlonary. 


ocides ta tto repattve; Tattyeoram relates her Saterview with Misa Wades Clennam pm 
poses to Mr. Meaglea to recommend him ax a partner to Daniel Doyee.— XVII, Clennem 
meets Henry Gowag at the Ferry, and afterwards at Mr, Mengless house; Mr. tiwan 
proposes to tntroduce a Criends Arthur Inquires of Doyoe who Gowun is: Barnoete, Jon, 
appears as Gowan's friend; Arthur does not like the Intimacy between Henry Gowan and 
‘Mingle. — XVIIL Young John Chivery forms an attachment for Littio Dorrit: he presente 
‘littie testhnonia} to the Father of the Marshalsea; he follows Amy in her walk, and Me 
‘on the point of making a declaration, when she cheeks him, and disappolnte Lis hepen— 
XIX. Contrast between tho brothers Willlain and Frederick Dorrity Mr. Che very's vexa- 
yn; Mr. Dorrit explains to Amy the cause of Chivery's vesation; he becomes despomd: 
‘nt, and she comforts him. — XX, Little Dorrit seks hor sister at the theatre, whore she 
Se ongaged ax a dancer, during a rehearsal; Panny Inteodaces her to Mra. Merdle, the lady 
whu gave her a bracelet: Mra Mondle gives Little Dorrit tho elroumstances of her son's 
attachment to Fanny, and tho understanding she and Panny have upon thesubject.— XX1, 
‘Who the Meniles were, and their position in soolety ; ® dionersparty at Mr. Merdie’s, and 
‘hat gendoman’s complaint. —XXIL. Mr. Clensiain does not find favor with the Father of 
the Marshalsea; Mrs Chivery shows Arunr her son's despondeney, and explains the 
eauso; Arthur and Little Dorrit most on the bridge, and Maggy Joina them with notes 
from Mz. Dorrit and Tip, requesting loans. —XX11T. Clennam becomes a partner it ML. 
Doyoe’s business; Flora and" Mr. F's Aunt" vialt him In bie counting-room; they are 
followed by Mr. Casby and Pancks: Flora tnkes an interest tn Little Dorr 
Aunt” makes & demonstration, and is taken out by Mr. Pancks; Mr, Pancke shows an ab= 
‘rorbing interest {a the Dorrit family, and quesUons Arthur about them; Mr. Panckx sor8 
through Weeding Heert Tard collecting renta, but dows not eatiafy his proprietor, —XX1¥, 
Little Dorrit goes to work for Flora: Flora gives her the history of her old attachment to 
Arthur; Mr, Pancks surprises Lite Dorrit by his skill n fortune-telling; Amy tella Magay 
Mhostory of the beautiful princess, and the Tittle woman who had a sccret.—XXV. Me. 
Fancks, Mr. Rugs, and young John Chivery dine together, and appear to be engaged in & 
‘conspiracy which lotorosts Litike Dorrity Mr, Pancks oalls apo Cavabletto, and Mrs. Plor 
nish acts aa interproter.—XX V1. Doycoand Cleunam dixcum the intimacy of Henry Gowan 
atmiecottage: Mr. Gowan expresses his opinion of the world: Arthur visits at her sous 
request, Stra. Gowan at Hampton Court; she questions hin atout the Meagleses, and be 
assures hee that they are not pleased by her son's attentions w Pet, and have hoped to 
break off an attachment. —XXVI1. Mr. Meaglos informs Clennam of Tattycoram'ssudden 
Aisappearanee; thelr thoughts both Farh to Miss Wade as probably the eanse: they nook 
Miss Wade, ond nd Tattycoram with her, but cannot Induce her to return home with 
Mr. Meaglen —XXVILL Mr. Clonnusn encounters Stinnle alone, and, as they walk home 
trough the #reUve, he anticlpates hor confidence, Invokes w blessing on her marriage with 
‘Gowan, and promises to be a friend lo her father when abe lbaway Mr. Meaglea delicately 
Intimates to Ardar his suspicion of the hopes he once cherished tn regard to Pet. —XX1X. 
Mr, Pancks calling at Mra Clonnam’s, sho understands that it 1s to seo Liktle Dorrit, who 
Isthere: Mrs. Cleanam is unusually gentle towards Amy; Aifery, shut out tn thestreet, is 
accosted ty a traveller, who climbs Into the window, and opens the door for her. — XXX 
‘The stranger announces himself to Jeremiah as Blandols, and produces a letter of katie 
accion to Clennam € Co.; Mr. Hlandols, baring dined at a neighboring tavern, retorns to 
bay his respects to Mra, Clennam; the visitor shows partieular interest in Mre Cleonain"s 
‘vateh, with ite pecallar monogram at his request he ts shown through the old houses he 
Appears delighted with Lhe house, and takes singular freedoms with Jeremiah. —XXXI- 
Air. Jolin Edwant Nandy is introduced ; [ttle Dorrts takes bim wither to the Marshalsea, 
to the indignation of Miss Fanny and the grief of hor father; the Tathor becomes Teadnr 
tiled, and bestows his patronage apon Nandy Tip and Miss Panny show " a propor apieit * 
In Chotr conduct towards Arthur. —XXXIL. Arthur secures an interview alone with LIS 
Dornt, and contides to her tho story of the love he had overcome; he urges her to Sitrunt 
to him any secret griof or care atio may have; Mr. ancks appears in m state of great €x« 
altement, which hulf fighicns Amy, but which Cleonam understands; Mr. Wencke furparte 
bis discovery to Clennam. —XXXIU. Mra Merile advises Mra Gowan on the 
tarnts of vooloty in rogard to her son's marriago; Mre Mondie complains to her bi 

Ast bo carries his business too much with him. — XXXIV. Mr. Hoary Gowan explalaa 1 
































‘Clennam the disap ointment he has suffered; marriage of Henry Gowan and Minnle 
‘Meagles, atvended vy all the Barnaclos.—XXXV. Mr. Dorrit proves hetratlaw to a gros 
estate, Mr, Hancks baying traced out the clam; Pancke narrates all the particulars to 
Arthat, who carries the news immediately to Little Dorrit; her first thought t# of her 
father, and they go to tall hits emotion with which 2x, Dorrit recelvos the news of bis 
food fortune. —XXXVIo-Me. Dorrit and fhunlly p-epare for leering the prison, and Me. 
Dorrit givos on entertainment to tho oolleglans: at the moment of depsrture, the family te 
Gingraced by Amy, wlio has fainted In her shabby drums and Is carried to the carriage ts 
‘that condition by Arthur 

NOOK It.—Carrex 1. The Dorrit party, Mr. and Mra. Menry Gowsn, and Mandote 
Boot at the Convent of the Great St. Bernard: Mra Gowan, having recetred an injury of 
the ruad, faints away, and her hastand carries hor to her room; Amy seeks Minnie Gowan 
tu her room, and gives her letter from Clennam; leaving the room, Amy encounters 
ASlandols fn the dark gallery; Blsndols registers bis name under the others in the Teavel= 
Jers" Book. — If. Who Mex General was, and how Mr. Dorrit engaged her to "form tho 
imiods" of his daughters. — 111. Mr, Dorrit and Fanny aro indignant at Amy for secking 

_-—tbe acquaintance of 1 friend of Clennam; the Dorrit party lexve the convent, watched in 
their descent by Blandols; at Martigny, Mr. Dorrit hasan altercation with the Innkeeper, 
‘who has allowed oue of the rooms engaged for hin to be used by other travellors; the 
Aravellers prove to bo Mrs. Mordie and Mr. Sparkler, and the lady appeases Mr. Dorrit by 
Der apology: the party moves on to Venice. —1¥, Amy writes to Clonuam, and relatos 
her interview with Minnie Gowan.—V. Mr. Dorrit takes the liberty to auggoat to Aira 
General that there ts something wrong In Amy t Mr. Dorrit, begs Amy to accommodate 
hheewelf better to the clreamstanoes of her atatlon; hespeaks of the old days tn the Mar- 
Abalsoa, and acousos ber of always recwlllug them by hee manner) the Gowsns boing im 
‘Venice, Mr. Dorrit, after consulting Mra. General, consents to recognize thelr acquaint> 
ance; Mr, Frederick tn moved to protest against the way In which Amy Is treated. — VI. 
Mr. Gawan decides to encourage the acquaintance of Iitandol, who has accompanied them 
to Veuloe; Panny and Amy call apon the Gowmuns; In Gowan"satudlo, Biandots is attacked 
hy Gowan's dogs returning bome, they are attended by Mr, Sparkler, and Fanny telle Amy 
how she meas to receive hiv attentions; Mr. Dorrit decides to bentow his patronage upon 
‘Menry Gowan, and engages him to paint his plesure: Gownn loses bis dog. VII, Fanny 
nuxpects Mra. General of matrimonial designs on Mr. Dorrit; Gowan aecepts, in bis depre- 
‘lating way, Mr, Dorrit’s commission; Blandols provents the confidence between Amy and 
Mrs. Gowan; the family foes to Rome, and Mré, Stendle renews the acquaintance" begun 
wt Martigny."—VLIL Doyco explains to Cleanam the Inyentiou he has eherlahed for 
‘Years, and Arthur determines to urge ita claims atthe Cireamlocution Omics; the dowager 
Mrs. Gowan calle upon the Meayleses, and reminds them, that, considering the sacrifice ber 
a bas mado, “It never does" for people of auch different antecedents to try to wet 
together. —IX. Mr. Meagles informs Arthur of his Intention to go abroad and seo Pet, and 
Arthur urges him to do vo; Mrs. Tlokit eees Tattyooram; soon after, Arthur himsolt sew 
wor in company with Miss Wade and Biandols; Biandols Leaves them, and Arthar seos 
them enter Mr, Casby's house, but on gaining admission to tho house, and tkquiring for 
Aber, Casby gives him vague answers —X. Arthur, on the way to see his mother, is 
Junto in the stroet by Blandols, and is greatly astonished, on following im, to sind im 
soaking admittance to Mra. Cletmam's house; Arthur objects to his presence there, but 
Mv, Clennam informs him that Blandols has business wish thems Blandols hints darkly 
At tho feelings existing botwoen Clennam & Co, —X1, Little Dorrit writes again to Arti 
with further intelligence of the Gowans and of her own family. XIT. A dinner ts given 
At Mr, Mendlo's, attended by Bar, Bishop, ibe., and the Barnacles, the object being to 
secure n meeting for Ave minutes between Mr. Merdlo and Lore Deotmus, the consequence 
of which In tho appointment of Edward Sparkicr, Kaquire, as cne of the lords of the Cir 
rumlocution Omce.— XII. Everybody talks of Mr. Merdie and of bis enterprises; Mr 
Panoks oallsak Mr, Plomish’s xhop after s trying day; rlagular vestormances of Caralletio, 
sopsequent on his seeing Rigand, and trying towvond bia; Clennam ealls at the Plormishes’ 
‘m his return home; Pancks sccompanios Ctenmain home, and argues in faror of the Mordle 
wterpricer, in which he has himself invested.—XI¥. How the news of Mr, Sparkler's 
sopnintmeus was recelved by his friends in Ttalyy Fanny “takes Ams"s advice” as to the 

ct 



































398 Ehe Vickens Wlct onary. 


‘nd of her Intoreourse with Mr. Sparkler, and decides, for the sake of seeuring « more 
ofined position, snd of asserting herself agninst his mother, that she will encourage him: 
Fanny, attended by Mr. Sparkler, informs Amy of thelr engagement, —XV. Mr. Dorrit 
flods Mes. Merdlo eharmed with Mr. Sparkler's choles Fanny expresses herself tired of 
Mrs. General; Mr. Dorrit remonstrates, and insists upon the engagement being announced 
to her: Fanny “tooks to Amy” for advice in regard to the time of her marriage, and. de~ 
‘ides that tt ahatl be acon; Fanny is married, and teaves for Ragland; Mr. Dorrit jolus her 
2 Plorenoe, and Amy and Mrs. General are left at Bome.—XYVI. Mrs. Sparkler ls estate 
lished in the rooms of Mra, Mentle; Mr. Merdle ealls upon Mr. Dorrit at his hotel, and 
coffers to asaist Mr. Dorrit in investing his mopey.—XVIL Mra inching calle upon Mr. 
Dorrit, and Informs tilt of the dieappoarance of Tlandols, who has never been sean ance 
‘bo entered the house of Mrs. Clennam, and asks him to look out for him on his rewen to 
‘Uualy; Mr. Dorrit goes to Br Clennam's to ask about Blandols; Mes. Atfery is again 
frightened by the noise —XVILL Young John Chivery calls 19 pay ale respects to Ar. 
Dorrit, much to that gentleman's lodignation: passing through Paris, Mr. Dorrit selects 
‘two itt gifts for w ndy.— XIX. Mr. Dorrit arrives at Rome lave in the evening, and finds 
‘his brother and Amy alone; he thinks hia brother grestly broken they recelve an invite 
tion to Dirk, Merdie’s farewell assembly ; Mr. Dorrit begins an important canversation with 
‘Mr. General, the conclusion of which, at her request, he postponess at Mrs Mendie"« 
party, Mr. Dorrit's mind wanders; he fancies himself again the Father of the Marshalses, 
‘and Welcomes the company to that institutions his brother and Amy get tim home, and, 
after ten days of wandering, Mr. Dorrit diev; Mz. Frederick Dorrit dies by the bedside of 
his dead brother. XX, Arthur Cleunam gains an intersiow with Miss Wade at her lodg- 
Ings tn Colais: he aceks news of Blandols, but she will give bim none; her hatred of the 
Gowann; hor influence over Tattyooram.—XXE. Mle Wade's history, as written out by 
herself for Mr. Cleanatn's perusal; Doyce recelves an appointment as engineer from & 
forelgn power, ~ XXII. Before leaving England, Clennam gives him & statement of thelr 
bunlneas, and Dogce cautions him againat speculating; Doyco’s departure; Clennam, 
unconsciously repeating the tune he had heard Blandols sing, 1s surprised to hear Cavallette. 
continue its Cavalletto tells Arthur where he knew Rigaud, and who he was, and Arttivr 
espatches him in search of the missing man,—XXIIL. Arthar informs is smother what 
he has heard rogarding Biandole; Arthur secures an opportunity of apeaking privately to 
Affory, who tells him the house {s full of mysteries, bot will aay no tore until he bids her 
© toll hor dreame™ before his mother and Jeremiah. —XX1¥. Mre. Sparkler passes ® long 
day with her husband; they receive « call from Mr. Merdle; who, on leaving, borrows 
‘Fauny's penknife, —XXV. Mr. Merdio is found dead in # bath, having committed suicide 
with Fanny's Xnifo; the chief butler gives notice; Mr. Mendle's " complaint” proves to 
tho forgery and robbery. —XXVE. Clennam finds his frm ruined tyr the failure of Merdie's 
Bank, renigns every thing into the hands of thelr creditors, and exonerates Doyes from 
Dimer Arthur is arrosted, and taken to the Marehalscas young Jolin Chivery conducts 
him tnto the old room, but declines to shake hands with him.—XXVIL Young Joba tne 
Vites Arthur to take ton with him, and opens his eyes in regard to Little Dorrit's feelings 

or his; young John composes his foal epitaph.—XXVUL Ferdinand Barnacle calla 
‘upon Arthur in prison; Rugg calls, but tx unable to move Arthur's decision to remaln 
where be ts; Rigaud enters Arthur's room, followed by Cavalletto and Panes; Cavalletto 
relates how he found himy Rigaud gives hile reasons for disappearing ho sends a note 16 
Bir. Clennam, wnming a Ume for the adjustment of thelr business; Fiintwinch comes ka 
porvon to anawer the note,—XXIX. Arthur's health fails in the prisons Little Dorrit 
comes to hime, having Just returned to Loudon, and heard of his misfortunes; she offers 
‘him all hor wealth to free him from embarrassment, bat he declines, and requests her to 
avcld him: young John beings Littie Dorrit’s parting-message to Ardhur.—XXX. Iigand 
josely followed by Cavalletto and Fanicks, keeps ble appointment with Clennam & Cost 
Fancks calls upon Asfory in Arthur's name to tell her dreams; partly by Rigaud’ role 
‘ing what he knows, and partly through Affory’s Grea," it Is told that Mrv. Clennam 
We mot Arthur's mothers that he i her hasband’s elild by « woman whom ho loved but 
‘wus forced by his uncle to glveup; that Mre. Clennam foroed her husband to give Gp. 
to Ler the object of his love, whom she nso forved to rellnquiah her child, to be reared. wx, 
‘sd baUover to be, Mra Clennam's own son; that Mre Cfennam had suppressed a eodlck, 


























Bittle Dorit. 899 


to Ofidert Clennam’s will, by which Little Dorrit would have recelvel two thousand 
guineas; that Joremtah ba Intruated the papers establishing thao facts to his brother's 
keeping, and that they had fallen into Rigaud’s hands: Rigaud threatens, if his terms for 
silence are not accepted, to put coples of these papers m Arthur's hands; Mra Clennam 
‘sunrts up regardiess of her paralytic stato, od rushes out of the house, followed by Affery 
and Jeremiah. XXX. Mra Clonnam’s tnterview with Little Dorrit in the prison; fall 
of tho old house, burying Iandols in its ruins = XXXIT. Mr, Pancks exposes his patron to 
the Isleeding Hearts. —XXXILL. Mr. Meagles sete himself to hunting up the box eontain~ 
ing the papers Rigaud had stolen: is jntorviow with Miss Wado, who deoies ail knowl- 
‘edge of them; he returns to England unauccemful, but Is followed by Tattycoram, who 
‘brings the missing box, and bogs to be taken back, Mr. Menglos starts off again in search 
of Doyee. — XXXIV. Little Dorrit informs Arthur that her father’s property was all lost 
‘ty Mr, Mondle’s failure, and ho now will sbare her fortune with her: Flora’s Isat act of 
fricndship, and the crowning deftance of Mr. ¥.’x Aunt; Daye returns with Mr. Meaglea, 
fexcnerstes Arthur, and offers to renew the partnership; Little Dorrit gives Arthur ® 
folded paper to bara; Arthur and Little Dorrit are married. 





A Tale of Two Cities. 


















8HORTLY before discontinuance of “Hoaswhold Words" (May 28, 1880), Mr 
Dickens begun the publication of a new periodienl, ntitied “All the Year 
Round;” and tn the first number (dated April 30) appeared the first portion of 
“A Talo of Two Citins.” It was concluded In No. 31, for November 26, 1830. 
Tt was also Issued in eight monthly parts, with two ilinstrations tn each, by 
Hablot K. Browne. On its completion, ft was published as an Independent 
volume by Chapman and Wall, and was inscribed to Lord John Russell, 
“in remembrance of many public services and private kindnosses” | 

Of this story it has been Justly said, that it ts “so noble in its spirit, 00 grand 
‘and graphic in Sts style, and filled with @ pathos so profound and simple, that i 
deserves and will surely take a place among the great serious works of Imagina- 
tion” 





CHARACTERS INTRODUCED. 


Barsad, John. See Pross, Sotomon. 

Carton, Sydney. A dissipated, reckless drudge for Mr. Stryver + 
a man of good abilities and good emotions, incapable of their 
directed exercise, Incapable of his own help and his own happk 
ness, sensible of the blight on him, and resigning himaclf to let it 
eat him away. (Bk. J, ch. ii-vi, xi, xiii, xx, xxi; Bk. IIL, ch. viii, 
ix, xi, xii, xiii, xv.) 

Ho had that rather wild, strained, seared marking about the eyes, whieh 
may be obserred In all free livers of hls class, from the portralt of Jeffries 


downward, and which can be traced, under various disguises of art, through 
the portraits of every drinking age. 








It had once been noted at the bar, that while Mr. Stryver was a glib mam 
‘and ap unscrupulous, and a ready, and a bold, he had not that faculty ofexteaeh 
“0 


& Tale of Two EClties. 


401 
Ing the essence from a heap of statements, which ts among the most striking 
nd necessary of the advocate’s accomplishments. But a remarkable {mprove- 
‘ment came upon nim as to this. ‘The more businoss he got, the greater his 
power seemed to grow of getting at {ts pith and marrow; and, however late at 
night he aat carousing with Sydney Carton, he always had hiv polnts at his 
fingers’ ends in the morning. 

‘Sydney Carton, Idlest aud most unpromising of men, was Stryver'a great ally. 
‘What the two drank together between Hilary Term and Michaelmas might have 
floated a king’s ship. Stryver never tind a caso in hand snywhere, but Carton 
‘was there, with his hands fn his pockets, staring at the ceiling of the court. They 
went the same circuit, and even there they prolonged thelr usual orgies late Into 
the night, and Carton was rumored to be seen at broad day, golng home stenlthily 
und unstendily to his lodgings like m dissipated eat, At last it began to get about 
among such as were Interested tn the matter, that, although Sydney Carton 
would ever be # Hon, be was an amazingly good Jackal, and that be rendered wult 
‘snd service to Stryver in that humble capacity. 

Charles Darnay having been on trial for his life on a charge of 
treason, and Miss Lucie Manette having been one of the witnesses 
in the case, Mr. Stryver, who has been the prisoner’s counsel, jokes 
Carton about his manifest interest in the young lady. And although 
Carton affects to be titterly indifferent to her, and speaks almost con- 
temptuously of her, he is, in fact, fascinated by her beauty, and falls 
more and more deeply in love with her as he comes to know more of 
her goodness and purity, Feeling that he is quite unworthy of her, 
and knowing that she is betrothed to Darnay, he seeks her for the 
double purpose of declaring his love, and bidding her farewell for 
ever. 


If Sydney Carton ever shone anywhere, he certainly never shone in the house 
of Doctor Manette. He had been there often, during a whole year, and bad 
always been the same moody and morose lounger there. When he cared to talk, 
he talked well; but the loud of caring for nothing, which overshadowed him 
with such a fital darkness, was very rarely plerced by the light within him, 

On aday in August, . . . Sydney's fect . . . became animated by an intent 
‘snd, in the working-ont of that Intention, they took him to the doctor's door. 

He was shown up stairs, and found Lucie at her work alone, She had never 
‘eon quite at her ease with him, and recelved him with some little embarrass- 
‘nent as he seated himself near her table. But, looking up at hls face in the iutex- 
ahange of the first few commonplaces, she observed « change tn It. 

“J fear you are not well, Mr. Carton.” 

“No. Bat the life 'Yead, Miss Manette, 1s not conducive to health. What 
to be expeoted of or by such protigntes ?”” 

“"Teit not— forgive me; T have begun the question on my lps —a plty to live 
ho better lifo?” 

‘God knows it Is a shame!" 

“Then why not change it?” 

Looking gently at him aguls, she waa surprised and saddened to see that there 
‘wero toare in his eyos. ‘There wero tears In his yolee too, ws ho answered, — 

“Tis too late for that, T shall never de better than Tam. I shall sink lowery 
and be worse,” 














i 








2 She Wickens Wictlonacy. 


‘He leaned w «elbow on her table, and covered his eyes with his hand. The 
table trembles it the stlenoe that followed. | 

‘She had never seen him softened, and was much distremed. He knew her to be 
$0 without sook(ag at her, and said, — 

“Dray, forgive me, Miss Manette, I break down before the knowledge of what 
want to say to you. Will you hear me?” 

“Tf It will do you any good, Mr. Carton, if it would make you bappler, It 
‘would make me very glad.” 

“God bless you for your sweet compassion! " 

Tie unshaded his fuce after a little while, and spoke steadily. 

* Don’t be afraid to hear me, Don't shrink from any thing Tsay. I am like 
one who died young. Ail my life might have been.” 

“No, Mr-Carton. Iam sure that the best part of tt might atl be; Tam sure 
that you might be much, much worthler of yourself” 

“Say of you, Miss Manette; and although I know better—although in the 
mystery of my awn wretched heart, I know better —I shall never forget [t.” 

‘She was pale and trembling. Me came to her relief with a fixed despair of 
himself, which made the intervlew unlike ony other that could have been holden, 

“If tthad been possible, Misa Manctte, that you could have returned the love 
of tie man you see before you —self-lung away, wasted, drunken, poor ereature 
of misuse ms you know him to be—he would have been conscious this day and 
hour, in splte of his happiness, that he would bring you to misery, brlug you to 
sorrow and eepeutance, blight you, disgrace you, pull you down with him. T know 
very woll that you can’ bave no tenderness for me; I atk for nove; 1 am even 
thankful that it ean not be.” 

“Without It, ean I not save you, Mr. Carton? Can T not recall you—forgire 
me agaln}—to a better course? Can Tin no way repay your confidence? Lknow 
this Is m confidence,” she modestly aald after Uttle hesitation, and in earnest 
tears. “T know you would say thla to no one else. Can I tara it to no good 
‘account for yourself, Mr. Carton ?”* 

He shook his head. 

“To nou. No, Miss Manette, to none, If you will hear me through a very 
titde more, all you can ever do for me {x done. I wish you to know that you have 
been the last dream of my soul. In my degradation I have not been so degraded, 
but that the sight of you with your father, and of this home (made such a home by 
you), has stirred old shadowa that I thought had died out of me. Since I know you 
T have been troubled by # remorse that I thought would never reproach me again, 
and have heaed whispers from old volces impelling me upward, that T thought 
weresilent forever. Thave had unformed ideas of striving afresh, beginning anew, 
shaking off sloth and sensuality, and fighting out the abandoned fight. A-dream, 
‘all u dream, that ends in nothing, and leaves the sleeper where be Iny down; bab 
T wish you to know that you luspired It, 

Will nothing of it remain? © Mr. Cartont think again, try again. 

© No, Miss Manette: all through it I have known myself to be quite undesery 
Ing. And yet T have had the weakness, and have still the weakness, to wish. you 
to know with what a sudden mastery you kindled me, honp of ashes that Iam, 
Into fire, —a fire, howorer, inseparable In tts nature from myself, quickeningnoth: 
ing, lighting nothing, doing no service, idly burning away. ... Let ine carry 
through the reat of my misdirected life the remembrance that T opened my hear 

> you last of all the world; aud that there was something left in me at this time 
which you could deptore und pity.!* 

* Whish T entreated you to belleve, again and again, most fervently, with al 
‘ey heart was capable of better things, Mr. Carton.” - 
























M& Eale of Swo Elttes, 408 


“ Entreat moto believe it no more, Miss Manette, Ihave proved mysdlf, and t 
now better. I distress you: I draw fast to an end. Will you let me believe, 
when I recall this day, that the last confidence of my life was repoved In your pure 
and innocent brosst, and that {t Hes there alone, and will be shared by no 
one?” 

“Tf that will be a consolation to you, yes." 

“Not even by the dearest one ever tobe known toyou?” 

“ Mr. Carton,” she answered, after an agitated pause, * the seeret is youry, not 
mine; and T promise to respect it." 

“Thank you! And again, God bless yout” 

He prt her hand to his lips, and moved towards the door. . . 

“ My last supplication of all fs this; and with {t E will retiere you of « visitor 
with whom I well know you have nothing in unison, and between whom and you 
there fs an impassable space. It ls useless tonay it, I know; but It rises out of my 
soul. For you, and for any dear to you, would doany thing. If my career were 
of that better kind that there was an opportunity or enpacity of sacrifice in it, 1 
‘would embrace any sacrifice for you and for those dear to you. ‘Try to hold me In 
your mind, at some quiet times, as mrdent and sincere in this one thing. The 
time will come, the time will not be long in coming, when new ties will be formed 
about you, —tles that will bind you yet more tenderly and strongly to the home 
you #0 adorn,—the dearest ties that will ever graco und gladden you. © Miss 
‘Manette! when the little pleture of a happy father’s face looks up in yours, when 
you seo your own bright beauty epringing up anew at your feet, think, now and 
‘then, that there is a man who would give his life to keep a life you love bealde 
you." 

‘The words are prophetic. Her husband, Darnay, having been 
summoned to Puris, and, on bis arrival, arrested, thrown into 
prison, and condemned to death, is rescued by Carton, who greatly 
resembles him, and who takes his place, and dies in his stead, hav- 
ing faithfully promised one of the officers of the prison that he will 
protect him from punishment for his complicity in Darnay’s escape 
by submitting to be guillotined without revealing the fraud. Dar 
nay (called in Paris Evrémonde) is drugged, and rendered insun- 
sible, as he cannot otherwise be made a party to the escape; and he 
fw then removed, dressed in Carton’s clothes, to a carriage, the sus- 
picions of the guard having been lulled by tolling them that the 
prisoner's visitor has been overcome by parting from his friend. 


‘The door closed, and Carton was left alone, Straining his powers of listening 
to the utmost. he listened for any sound that might denote suspicion or alarm. 
There was none, . . . Breathing more freely in a little while, he ant down at the 
table, and listened agnin until the clooks struck two. 

Sounds that he was not afraid of, for he divined thelr meaning, then began to be 
audible. Several doors were opened in ucceaslon, and Gnally his own. A jailer, 
with a Hist in bis hand, looked 'a, merely saying,” Follow me, Kvrémondet" And 
he followed into a large, dark room at a distance. Tt was a dark winter day, avd 
what with the ssadows within, and what with the shadows without, he could bat 
dimly discern the others who were brought there to have thelr arms bound. Some 
were standing; some seate.. Some wore lamenting, and in restless motion; but 




















404 The Wickens Dictlonarp. 


thero were few. The great majority wore allont and still, looking Oxedly at the 
und. 

eA the Paris streets the death-carts rumble, hollowand harsh, Stx trbeile 

earry the day’ wine to La Guillotine... . 

Asthe sombre wheels . . . goround, they seem to ploogh up a long crooked far 
row among the populace In the streets. Ridges of faces are thrown to this side 
snd to that, and the ploughs go steadily onward. So used are the regular [nbab- 
Hants of the houses to the spectacle, that, In many windirwe Sar Se Soe 
and In some the occupation of the hands ix not #0 much as suspended while the 
‘epGe mirroy tho fhovs In the turnbrila. . . 

‘Of the riders n the tambrils, some obyerve these things, and all thiags on thet 
Just roadside, with nn {mpassive stare; others with m lingering interest tm the 
ways of life and men. Some, seated with drooping heads, are sunk in silent de 
spair; again, there are some so heedful of their looks, that they cast upoa the mal- 
titude much glances as they have seen in theatres mod in pictures. Several clove 
their eyes, and think, or Iry to get thelr «traying thoughts together. Only one, 
and he a miserable creature of « oraxed nepect, Ix #0 shattered and mado drank by 
horror, that he sings, and teles to dance. Not one of the whole number appeals 
by Jook or goature to tho pity of tho people, 

‘There is a guard of sundry horsemen riding abreast of the tambetle; a8 
fnoos are often turned up to some of them, and they are msked some question. I& 
would seem to be always she ame question; forit ts always followed by = press 
of people toward the third cart. The horsemen abresst of that cart 


polnt out one man in itwith their swords. The leading curiosity Est 
ls ho: he stands at the back of the tumbril with his head bent down 
‘no ourlosity or care for the seene about him... .» Here and there in the | 
street of 8t. Honord, eries are raised against him, Kf they more him at all, 
only to a quict smile, a8 he shakes his halra little more loosely about bis then. te 
eannot easily touch his face, his arms being bound, 

On the steps of a charch, awaiting the comlog-up of the tumbrils, stands the 


me?” when his fice clears as he looks into the third. 
“Which ls Evrémondo ?” says @ man behind him, 
“That. At the buck there. 
With his hand tn the girl's?” 


8 man cries,“ Down, Rvrémondet To the guillotine all arlstoornts! Dows 
Evrémonde 1h 
© Hush, lash!" the spy entreats bin thinidly. 
“And why not, oltizen ?!" 
“ Ue is golng to pay the forfeit: it will be pald in five minutes more. Let him 
be at peace.” 
‘man continuing to exelaim, “Down, Evrémondel” the fice of Rene 


oes, the upturaing of many fases, the presatapom 
tsteps in the outakirts of the crowd so that it swells forward inemas, 
ike one great heave of water, all flashes away... 


"him about the olty, that night, that Jt waa the poseefullest man? 
held there. Many added that he looked sublime and prophet. 














SYDNEY CARTON AND THE SEMPSTRESS, 





@ Cale of Two Citle: 405 





* Tha portrayal of the noble-natured castaway, Sydney Carton, makes It (A Talo of 
‘Two Cities} almost a peerless book in modern litenrture, and gives ita place among the 
Righeot examples of wit literary art. “Greater love hath no man then this, that he Ing 
own hia life for his friend." And yet Sydney Cartun did more; for he gave his life, not 
or his frlond, but to secure the worn he fondly loved a happy life with another man, 

«The conception of thiastory and of this character tsaublime, and shows tn ite author 
‘an {deal of magnanknity and of charity unsurpassed in the history of all titeratur 
‘One alight, tender touch of the artist's band 1s too exquisite to be passed by, « 
‘Tho wan and the family whose luppiness Sydney Carton dlos to wave aro in hoa Aight 
from Faris aa he gocs to the guillotine. Haw was so note # death to be worthily por 
trayed? ‘The nathor effects this by tntroductng a poor little ewort matured, alrinking, 
‘dut brave-hearted milliner-gifl. who wns to be put to death, —she could net ges why, 
‘As many con!d not. then, Who suiTered death as she did. She was with Errdsaonds in 
‘the prison of La Force, snd, when they are onlered out to take thotr places tn the 
tumbrils, abe speaks to the supposed Evrémonde, who ls gotng to death with ber, 
Looking closely, sho sees that It le not Kvrdmonde, but a man a0 like him, that one 
might be taken for the other, She divines his purpose. and keops his searet. aud begs 
‘hat she may hold his* brave hand ‘to the last. Mixhosrt goes ut to herin that enprome 
moment of thelr lives: he sustaine and comforts her; ad at last ahe naka." Ain Eto 
Kiss you now? Tathe moment come ?'—' Yea” She kissos bie lips, he kisses hers, and 
sho mounts the scaffold, He follows her, murmuring to himself, "I am the Reaurrec= 
tion and the Life." The end comes, and the castaway diex, thinking, “It i « fur, far 
‘etter thing that I do than I have ever done: st 1s a fur, far beter rest that I go to than 
Thave everknown,’ Heyond that, the aublimity of simple self-sacrifice, the enthuxiaxm 
‘of humanity, the parity of pathos, ean never go. Tn all literature, tn all history, there 
te not a grander, lovelier gare, than the self-wreakod, telf-devoted Syuney Carton." — 
Bionaxp Guast Ware, 


Cly, Roger. An Old Bailey spy, partner of Solomon Pross, and 
formerly servant to Charles Darn: (Bk. U1, ch, ili, xiv; Bk. TH, 
ch. viii, xv.) 

Cruncher, Jerry. An odd-job man at Tellson’s Bank, in London, 
who is also a resurrection-man. His wife, pious woman, is greatly 
distressed by her knowledge of the horrible nature of his nightly 
occupation; and, as her remonstrances prove to be unavailing, she 
resorts to prayers and supplications to Heaven to aid her in the 
reformation of her husband. ‘This is very distasteful to Mr. Crun- 
cher, — so much so, indsed, that he sometimes resorts to violence te 
prevent it, 


























Mr. Cruncher reposed under m patchwork counterpane, like a harlequin at 
home, At first he slept heavily, but by degrees began to roll and surge In bed, 
‘untll he rose above the surface, with bis apiky hatr looking ns if it must tear the 
sheets to ribbons, At which juncture, he exclaimed in a voice of dire exaaperne 
too. — 

Bust mo, if she afn’t at it agin!” 

A woiman of orderly and industrious appearance rose from her knees In # 
corner, with sufficient hasteand trepidutiou to show that she was the person re 
ferred to. 

“What!” sald Mr. Grancher, looking out of bed fora boot. “You 're at it 
‘gin; are you?” 

After bailing the morn with this second salutation, he threw # Boot at the 


_ 














106 The Dickens Pictionary. 


woman asa third. Tt was a very muddy boot, and may Introduce the odd stream 
Manoe connected with Mr. Cruncher’s domestic economy, that, whereas he often 
‘eame home after banking-hours with clean boots, he often got up next morning to 
find the same boots covered with olay. 

“What.” sald Mr. Cruucher, varying his apostrophe after missing his mark, — 
“what are yon up to, aggerawayter ?” 

Twas only susing my prayers.” 
Saying your prayers! You're a nice woman! What do you menn by flopping 
yourself down, and praying agin me?” 

*<Twne not praying against you: Twas praying for you.” 

“You were n't; and, if you were, I won't be took tho Iiberty with. Mere, 
your mother’s a nico woman, young Jerry. going mprayiog agin your father's 
prosperity, You 've got a dutiful mother; you have, my son. You 've got 
Tellgioas mother; you have, my bay: going and flopping herself down, wa prays 
fog that the bread-and-butver may be snatched out of the mouth of her omly 
ebuiai" 

Master Cruncher (who was {n his xbtrt) took this very fl, and, tarning to his 
mother, strongly deprecated any praying away of his personal board. 

“ And what do you suppose; you conceited female,” said Mr. Cruncher with 
‘unconscious inconsistency, “that the worth of your prayers may be? Name the 
price that you put your prayers ut. 

“They only come from the heart, Jerry. ‘They are worth no more than that” 

“ Worth no more than that,” repeated Mr. Cruucher: “they ala’t worth much, 
then, Whether or no, Lwon't be prayed agin, f tell you. I cun't afford It, I'm not 
a-going to be made unlucky by your sneaking. If you must go flopping yourself 
down, flop in favor of your husband and child, and not in opposition to 'em, If I had 
had any bot aunnat’ral wife, and this poor boy had had any but a uinat'ral mother, 
Tmight have made some money last week, instead of being counterprayed and 
countermined, and religiously elreumwented Into the worst of luck. Bo-u-ust met” 
anid Mr, Cruncher, who all this time had been putting on his clothes, 11 nln’, 
‘what with piety and one blowed thing nnd another, been choased this Inst 
woek into as bad luck as ever a poor devil of a honest tradesman met with? 
‘Young Jerry, dress yourself, my boy, and, while I clean my boots, keep @ eye 
upon your mother now and then, and, If you see any signs of more flopping, 
give me a call. For I tell you," here he addressed his wife once more, “I 
won't bo gone agin in this manner, I am as rickety ax a huckney-coach; I'm 
fs slocpy ar landanum; my lines {s strained to that degree that I should mt 
know, if it was n't for the pain in Yem, which was me, aud which somebody 
+]so; yet I?m none the bettor for It in pocket; and ft % my suspicion that you tre 
eon at It from morning to night to provent me from being the better for tt in 
pocket; and T won't put up with it, aggerawayter; and what do you say now 
+ + = Mr.Crunchor betook himself to his boot-cleaning and his general prepar 
rations for business. In the mean time, his von... kept the required wateb 
upon his mother. He greatly disturbed that poor woman, nt interrals, by dart 
Ing out of his sleeping-closet, where he made his tollet, with a aupprosmed ery 
of, “You ars going to flop, mother!—talloo, father!” and, after ralxing thie 
Gctitions nlarm, darting in aguin with an undatiful grin, 

Mr. Cruncher’s temper was not at all Improved when he came to his breale 
(it. He resented Mrs. Cruncher's saying grace with particular antmouity, 

“Now, aggerawayter, what are you up to? At It agin?” 

Its wife explained that #he had merely * asked a blessing.” 

“Dont do it!” said Mr. Cruncher, looking about ax if he rather expeete 
to we the loat diwppear under the efficacy of his wife's petitions, “ain't w 









































@ Sale of Swo Cities, 407 


folng to be blest out of house and home, Iwon't have my wittler blest off 
wy tabie, Keep stilt!” 

Participating in the horrors of the outbreak in Paris, whither he 
has gono in company with Mr. Long, Jerry is so impressed with 
the uncertainty of human life, that he resolves to reform; and he 
communicates his resolution to Miss Pross in this wise: — 

“Would you do me the favor, miss, to take notice o' two promises and wows 
‘wot it is my wishes fur to record in this here orisis?"* 

Oh, for gracious sake!” eried Miss Pross, atill wildly erying, “record them 
at once, and get them out of the way, like an excellent mas!" 

“First,” maid Mr. Cruncher, who was all in a tremble, and who spoke with 
‘an ashy and solemn visage, “them poor things well out o” this, uever no more 
will Ido it; never no more!” 

“1am quite sure, Mr, Cruncher,” returned Miss Pross, “ that you never will 
do it again, whatever It Is; and I beg you not to think it necessary to mention — 
more particularly what It is.’ 

“No, miss," returned Jerry: “It shall not be named to you. Second, them 
poor things well out o’ this, and never no more will X interfere with Mrs, 
‘Cruncher’s flopping; never no more!" 

“Whatever housekeeping arrangement that may be,” sald Miss Pross, striv- 
Ang to dry her eyes, and compose herself, “I have no doubs St is beat that Mrs. 
-Croncher should have It entirely under her own superintendence. Oh! my poor 
darlings 1” 

“1 go so fur as to say, miss, morehover,” proceeded Mr. Cruncher, with amost 
alarming tendency to hold forth as from a pulplt,—" and let my words bo took 
down, nnd took to Mrs. Cruncher through youreeif,—that wot my opinions ne 
spectin’ lopplog has undergove a change, aud that wot I only hope with all my 
heurt as Mrs, Uruncher may be a-flopping at the present time.” 

“There, there, there! I hove she is, my dear man,” oried the distracted Miss 
‘Pross; “and I hope she finds it answering her expectations.” 


(Bk. I, ch. ii, iii; Bk. II, cb. i-iii, vi, xiv, xxiv; Bk, TIT, ch. vii~ 
fx, xiv.) 

Cruncher, Young Jerry. His son and assistant. (Bk. Il, ch. 
4, ii, xiv; Bk. IL, ch. ix.) 

Young Jerry, while yet a mere boy, and not in the seert of his 
father’s night-excursions, masters the name of the business, and 
forms an idea of its nature, 

Father," sald Young Jerry as they walked along, taking eare to keep at 
‘arms-length, and to have the stool well between them, “what's m resurrection: 


man?” 

‘Mr, Cruncher came to # stop on the phvement before he answered, “ow 
should I know?” 

“I thought you knowed every thing, futher,” said the artless boy. 

“Mom Wels! returned Mr. Cruncher, going ou again, .. . “ho sa trades 
man.” 

“What "s his goods, father?” asked the brisk Yocug Jerry. 

“His goods," said Str, Cruncner, after turning it over tn his mind, “ts 9 
bravo of scientific goods” 


= 




















08 The Dickens Dictionary. 


“Person bodies; ain't it, father?” asked the lively boy: 

+ I believe it is eomethink of that sort," xald Mfr. Crancher. 

“© father! I should so like to be a resurrection-man when I'm quite 

up.” 

se Cour ae soothed, but shook bis head fn « grave and moral way, 
“It depends upon how you dewelop your talents. Ie careful to dewelop your 
talents, and never to say no more than SP ee 
telling at the prevent time what you my come tobe fit for" As Young Jerry, 
thus encournged, went on a few yards im advance, to plant the stool in the 
shadow of the Bar, Mr. Crancher added to himself, “Jerry, you honest trades: 
mas, there '« hopes wot that boy will yet be a blessing to you, and arecomyense 
t0 you for his mother.” 

Cruncher, Mrs. Wife of Jerry Cruncher; called by him“ Ag- 
gerawayter.” (Bk. Il, ch. §, il, xiv; Bk. IH, ch. ix, xiv). See. 
Cxonouen, Jneny. 

Darnay, Charles. See Sr. Evnémonpr, Cuanues. 

Darnay, Mrs. Lucie. See Maxerre, Lucie. 

Defarge, Madame Théres’. Wife of Monsieur Defange, and 
leader of the Saint Antoine rabble of women in the Revolution. She 
is a stout woman, with a watchful eye that seldom seems to look at 
any thing, a steady face, strong features, and great composure of 
manner, She is killed in an encounter with Miss Manctte’s maid, 
‘Miss Pross, who refuses to admit her into a room in which her mis 
tress is supposed to be. (Bk. I, ch. v, vi; Bk. II, ch. vii, xv, xvi, 
xxi, xxii; Bk. II, ch. iii, ¥, vi, vili-x, xii, xiv, xv.) 

Of astrong and fearless character, of shrewd sense and readiness, of great 
otermination, of that kind 6f besuty which not only seems to impart to Ite 
possessor firmness and aulmosity, but to stzike into others au instinctive recog- 
nition of those qualities, the troubled time would have heaved her up under 
any clroumstances; but, imbued from her childhood with a brooding sense 
of wrong and an inveterute hatred of » class, opportunity had developed her 
into a tigress. She was absolutely without pity. If she had ever had the 
virtue in her, it tind quite gone out of her. 

Defarge, Monsieur Ernest. Keeper of a wine-shop in the 
suburb of Saint Antoine, in Paris, and ringleader of the revolutionista 
in that quarter of the city. At his house, Doctor Manette is tempo~ 
rarily placed after being released from the Bastille; and it is he 
who finds the record which the old man had writes and secreted In 
the prison, and who produces t in court against Darnay. (Bk. I, ch. 
y, vi; Bk. II, ch. vii, xv, xvi, xxi, xxii; Bk. HI, ch, i, iii, vi, ix, x, 
xii, xiv, xv.) 

‘This wine-shop-keeper was a bull-necked, martial-looking man of thirty, ang 
he should have been of a hot temperament; for, although it was @ bitter day, he 


‘wore no coat, but carried one slung orer ble shoulder, His ahirtaleeves were 
rolled up, too, aud his brown arms were bare to the elbows, Neither did be 











& Sale of Two Cities 409 


‘wear any thing more on his head thau his own erispls-curting, short dark hair. 
‘He was a dark man altogether, with good eyes, and a good bold bread between 
them; good-humored-Jooking on the whole, but Implacable-looking 100; evie 
dently & man of strong resolution and w set purpose, —a man not desirable to be 
‘met rusting down a narrow pass with a gulf on eltber side; for nothing would 
turh the man, 

Evrémonde, Charles. See St. Evrémoxpe, Caarces. 

Gabelle, Monsieur Théophile, A postmaster, and some other 
taxing functionary united. (Bk. I, ch. viii, ix, xxiii, xxiv; Bi. 
I, ch. i, vi.) 

Gaspard. Assassin of the Marquis St. Evrémonde. (Bk. I, ch. v; 
Bk. Il, ch. vii, xv, xvi.) 

Jacques One. A prominent assistant of Defarge in the French 
Revolution. (Bk. I, ch. vj; Bk. Il, ch. xv, xxi, xxiii.) 

Jacques Two. Another revolutionist, who is also an. assistant 
of Defarge. (Bk. I, ch. v; Bk. I, ch. xv, xxi, xxiii.) 

Jacques Three, An associate of Defarge, and a member of the 
revolutionary jury; a cannibal-looking, bloody-minded man. (Bk. 
Ich. ¥; Bk. Il, ch. xv, xxi-xxiii; Bk. I, ch. xii, xiv.) 

Jacques Four, A name given to himeelf by Monsieur Defarge as 
‘one of the Saint Antoine revolutionists, See Derarae, Monsieur 
Ernest. 

Jacques Five. An associate of Dofarge; a mender of roads, af- 
terwards a wood-sawyer. (Bk. H, ch. viii, ix, xv, xvi, xxii; Bk. 
Ul, ch. v, ix, xiv, xv.) 

Joe. Aconchman. (Bk. I, ch. ii) 

Lorry, Mr. Jarvis. A confidential clerk at the banking-house 
of Tellson and Company, in London. He is a friend of the’ Mae 
nettes, and their companion during the terrible scenes of the Revo- 
lution in Paris. (Bk, I, ch. ii-vi; Bk. TI, ch. li-iv, vi, xii, xvi- 
xxi, xxiv; Bk. IIL, ch. ii-vi, vi i xv.) 

‘Very orderly und methodical he looked, with a hand on each kuee, and» loud 
watch ticking # sonorous sermon under his Mapped walsteoat, as though tt 
pitted ite gravity and longevity ogninst the levity and erancsoence of the brisk 
fre. He bad a good leg, and was a little vain of it; for his brown stockings 
‘Utted sleek and close, and were of a fine texture: his shocs and buckles. too, 
Hough plain, were trim. He wore an odd little sleek, erisp, flaxen wig, setting 
ary clove to his head; which wig, it is to be presumed, was made of hair, but 
which looked far more a4 though it were spun from filaments of silk or glass, 
‘His licen, though not of # fineness in accordance with bis stockings, was as 
white as the tops of the waves that broke upon the neighboring beach, or the 
specks of vail that glinted in the sunlight far at sea, A fuce habitually sup- 
presed and quleved was still iighted up unbor the quaint wig by a palr of moist 
bright eyes, that It must have cost their owner in years gone by, some pains to 

% 





= 








410 Ebe Dickens Mictlonary. 


rill to ‘he composed and reserved expression of Tellson's Bank. ne nad a 
‘ealthy color in his cheeks; and bis face, though ned, bore fow traces of anx> 
fety. But perhaps the confidentia} bachelor clerks n Tellsoa’s Bank were 
principally occupled with the cares of other people; aud perhaps second-hand 
cares, like second-hand clothes, come easily off and on, 

Manette, Doctor Alexander. A physician of Paris, confined 
for eighteen years in the Bastille, because, in his profvssional eapae 
city, he had become acquainted with the secret crimes of a noble 
family. Released just before the outbreak of the Revolution, he 
goes to England, whither his wife and daughter had preceded him, 
and where the former had died. Restored to his child, who nurses 
him with tender solicitude, he gradually recovers the uso of his face 
ulties, which had become greatly impaired during his long impris_ 
onment. About this time, young French nobleman, disgusted 
with the tyranny of the class to which he belongs, renonnees his 
title and fortune, expatriates himself, and settles in England, where 
be passes under the name of Charles Darnay. He there becomes 
acquainted with and marries the daughter of Doctor Manctte, 
Having been summoned back to Paris, at the outbreak of the Revo- 
lution, to release from prison, by his testimony, an old and faithful 
servant of his family, he is himself thrown into La Force, immedi- 
ately upon his arrival, as a proscribed emigrant. His wife and her 
father follow him, however; and Doctor Manette, whoge popularity 
is very high, succeeds in securing his acquittal. Yet in a few days 
he is re-accused and re-arrested; the change against him being, that 
he is an aristocrat, one of a family of tyrants, denounced enemies, 
of the Republic; and the evidence against him is a paper written 
by Doctor Manette, when a privoner in the Bastille, and secreted 
byhim in a hole in the chimney of his cell. ‘This document, which 
had been discovered at the capture of the prison, recites the story 
‘of the good doctor's sufferings, details the abominable iniquities of 
the St. Evrémonde family (to which Durnay belongs). and enda 
by denouncing them and their descendants, to the last of the race, ta 
tho times when all such things shall be answered for. Darnay is 
condemned to death; but, through the heroic self-devotion of Sydney 
Carton, he is snved from such a fate, and is taken to England by bis 
wife and her father, where they all Jead a peaceful, prosperous, and 
happy life, and pass at lastto a tranquil death. (Bk. I, oh. fi-vi, 
Bk. II, ch. ii-iy, vi, ix, x, xii, vi-xxi, xxiv; Bk, ILI, ch. ti-vii 
ix-xil, xiv, xv.) 

Manette, Lucie. His daughter; afterwards the wife of Charler 

















M&M Cale of Ewo Cities. 411 


Darnay. (Bk. I, ch. iv-vij Bl. Il, ch. ti-vi, ix-xiti, xvi-cxal, xxiv; 
Bk. TU, cb. iii-vi, ix-xil, xiv, xv.) 


A young Indy of... a short, slight, pretty figure, « quantity of golden hate, 
© palr of blue eyes... and a forehead with m singular capacity (remember- 
Ing how young nnd smooth it was) of Iifting and knitting itself Into an expres 
lon that was not quite one of perplexity or wonder oF alarm, or merely cfm 
bright fixed attention; though ft Included all the four exprese’ons, 


Mender of Roads, The. See Jacques Five. 

Monseigneur. A great lord in power at the French court, (Ik. 
I, ch. vii.) 

Monseigneur. A personification of the French nobility. (Bk. 
Ii, ch, xxiii, xxiv; Bk. Ill, ch. ii.) 

Prison Sheep, The, See Pros, So.ompx. 

Pross, Miss. Miss Lucie Manette’s maid; sister of Solomon Pross. 
She is a grim, wild-looking woman, with red face and hair, brawny 
arms, abrupt manners, and singular habits; yet, — 


Beneath the surface of her eccentrlelty, one of thoaw unselfish ereatures — 
found only among women—who will, for pure love and admiration, bind 
themselves willing alaves, to youth, when they have lost it, to beauty that they 
never had, to accomplishments that they were never fortunate enough to gain, 
‘to bright hopes that never shone upon their own sombre lives. 


‘When the Manettes escape from Paris, Miss Pross remains behind 
toconceal their flight, and, in trying to do o, gets involved in a hand- 
to-hand conflict with Madame Defarge, a ruthless and desperate 
woman, who is on their track. In the struggle, Madame Defarge 
draws a pistol, and attempts to shoot her antagonist; but Miss Pross 
strikes at it at the moment of firing, and the charge takes effect on 
the French woman, killing her instantly. Miss Pross hurries from 
the house, closely veiled; takes a carriage which has been in wait 
Ing for her; and succeeds in escaping safely to England. (Bk. I, 
ch. iv; Bk. I, ch. vi, x, xvil-xix, xi; Bk. III, ch. ii, iii, vii, viii, 
xiv.) 

Progs, Solomon, called also Joux Bansap, and nicknamed 
“Prion Surxr.” A heartless scoundrel, who strips his sister of 
every thing he possesses, as n stake to speculate with, and then 
abandons her in her poverty to support herself as she ean. He 
beromes a spy and secret informer in the service of the English 
government, and afterwards a turnkey in the Coneldrgerie in Paris. 
(Bk. I, ch. iii, vi, xiv, xvi; Bk. II, ch. viii, ix, xi, xili-xv.) 

Bt, Evrémonde, Marquis. Uncle of Charles Darnay; twin- 
brother, joint inheritor, and next successor of the elder marquis 
(Bk. I, ch. vil-ix; Bk. HE, ch. x.) See p. 545. * 











—_— = 








412 She Dickens Dletlonarp. 


‘He wasn mao of about sixty, handsomely dressed, haughty fa manner, and 
with a fice, tke a fine mask, —a face of a tranyparent paleness; every feature in 
At clearly deiined; one set expression on it, The nose, beautifully formed other- 
‘wise, was very slightly pinched at the top of each nosteil. In those two com 
pressions, or dints, the ouly Little change that the fice ever showed resided. 
‘They peralated In changing color sometimes, and they would be occasionally dt 
tuted and contracted by something like a {aint pulsation; then they gave a Took 
of treachery and cruelty to the whole countenance, Examined with attention, 
its capacity of helping such a look was to be found tn the lino of themouth and 
the Jines of the orbits of the eyes, betng much too horizontal and thin; still, im 
the effect the face made, It was a handsome face, and a remarkable onc, 


8t. Hvrémonde, Marquis, ‘Twin-brother-of the younger mar 
quis, and father of Charles Darnay. (Bk. ILL, ch. x.) 

St. Hvrémonde, Marquise. His wife; a young Indy, hand- 
some, engaging, and good, but not happy in her marriage. (Bk. IL, 
ch. x.) 


St. Bvrémonde, Charles, called Cuantxs Danwax. His son; 
a French émigré, afterwards married to Lucie Manette. (Bk. Il, 
ch, li-vi, ix, x, xvi-xvili, xx, xxi, xxiv; Bk. TIL, ch. i-vii, ix—xy.) 
See Maxerte, Doctor ALEXANDER. 

St. Evrémonde, Lucie, His daughter. (Bk. Il, ch. xxi; Bk. 
TIL, ch. ii, tii, v-vii, xi, xiii, xiv.) 

Btryver, Mr. A London barrister; council of Charles Darnay, 
and patron of Sydney Carton. (Bk. Il, ch. ti-v, xi, xxi, xxiv.) 
See Canton, Sypyey. 


Aman of little more than thirty, but looking twenty years older than he 
was; stout, loud. red, bluif, und free from any drawback of dellesey; [with) a 
pustiing way of shouldering himself (morality sod physically) into compantes and 
conversations, that argued well for his shouldering his way up i life, 


Tellzon and Company. An old and eminent banking-firm in 
London. (Bk. 1, ch. iii, iv; Bk. Il, ch. i iii, vii, ix.) 


‘Tellson’s Bank. by Templo Bar, was an old-fashioned place, even In the year 
fone thousand seven hundred und elghty, It was very «mall, very dark, very: 
ugly, very Incommodious. It was an oldfashioued place, moreover, in the 
mora} attribute that the partuera ia the house were proud of Ite «mallnons, 
proud of its darkness, proud of its ugtiness, proud of its Incommodiousness. 
‘They were even bonstful of its eminence fo those particulars, and were fred by 
an oxpross convlotion, that, if it were less objectionable, {t would be less respeet= 
able. This was no passive belief, but an active weapon, which they flashed mt 
more eonventent places of business. ‘Tellsou’s (they eaid) wanted no elbow 
room; Tellson's wanted no light; Tellson"s wanted no embellishments. Noakes 
and Co.’ might; or Snooks Brothers’ might ; but Tellsou’s, thank Hearen!—,. 
After bursting open a door of idiotic obstinacy with weak rattle tn ite throat 
you fell Into Tullson’s, down two steps, and came to your senses in a miserable 
Little shop, with two little counters, where the oldest of men made your check 
shake as if tho wind rustled it, while they examined your siguature by the ata 








& Tale of Swo Citles. 41S 


stost of windows, which were always under ashowerbath of mud from Fleet 
‘Street, and which were made the dingler by their own tron bars proper, and 
the heavy shadow of Temple Itar. If your business necessitated your sooing 
“the Houso,” you wore put Into a spectes of condemned hold at the back, whore 
you meditated on a misspent Ifo, uatil the House eame with Its hands tn ite 
pocksts, and you could hardly blink at {tin the dismal twilight. Your money 
came out of, or went into, wormy old wooden drawers, particles of which 
flew up your nose and down your throat when they were opened and «hut. 
‘Your bank-notes had a musty odor, as If they were fist decompoting Into rags 
again. Your plate was stowed away among the neighboring cesspools, and evil 
‘communications corrupted ite good poliah ina day oF two. Your deeds got into 
‘extemporized strong roams made af kitchens and scullories, and fretted all the 
fat out of thelr parchments into the bunking-house air, 


Tom. Coachman of the Dover mail, (Bk. I, ch. ii.) 

Vengeance, The. One of the leading revolutionists among the 
Saint Antoine women; lieutenant to Madame Defarga. (Bk. 1, 
oh. xxii; Bk. IIL, ch. ix, xii, xiv, xv.) 

















a4 The Mckens Dietlonacs, 


PRINCIPAL INCIDENTS. 


BOOK L = Cnarran I. Social condition n1T15.—I1T. The Bove 
‘mail climbing Shooter's tll; = momenger overtakes It with = Tapas for Mr, Jarvis 
‘Lorry: ho recelves a very singolar mossgo to carry backs his perplexity over t— ILL. 
Mr. Lorry’s dream ax he rode through the might.—T¥. Mow he looked, and what he die 
‘M“The Royal Georgo,"* at Dover; Miss Manette comes; ho tells her, ns “a matter of 
‘duaines,” that hor fathor, whom sho aupposed dead, hae been imprisoned many soars, Dut 
bs now freo at Paris: she Is stannod by the Intelligence. —V. A wine-cask barsts In Salat 
Antoino.and a crow try to eecure the wines “Mfunger" te blazoned oa all the dwellings, 
shops, and people of Saint Antoine; Defarge, the wine-sbop keeper, leads Mr. Larry and 
‘Miss Manotto to tho parrot where hor tathor is making shoes, —~ VT. Doctor Manotte"« ap= 
pearance and voleos how he come to understand shoemaking ; Lucie tries to recall to his 
‘mind long-forgotten incidents; they take him from the garret, and out of France. 

BOOK 1L.—Cuarren L Tellson's Bank a triumph of inconvenience; Jerty Cruncher 
athomos ts grostly Mlsturbed by Mrs. Cruncher'e" flopping; with young Jorry gone te 
js station near Tollson’s, and chews atraws til called to go on an errand. —II. He la sont 
to the Old Batley. whore Charles Darnay Is put om trial for treason, — EIT. The 
kenoral’s apecch; testimony of John Barsad and Roger Cly, of Mr. Lorry, of Mim Mae 
notto, of Dootor Manette; strane likoneesof Sydney Carton to the prisoner the onse give 
to the Jury; Damay is acquitted. —1¥. Recelves his fiends’ congratalations; Carton and 
Danny dinocogether.—V, Stryvor ws Hon, and Carton ax Jackal; Carton works up" two 
cages for Stryror.—VI. Doctor Manotte’s houne near Soho Square; Mr. Lorry goes there ona. 
fino Sunday ; talks with Miss Pross) te dovtor and Laole oome home: Mr. Damay calls, 
and tells of a curious fact he heard while confined in the Tower, by which the doctor ie 
uch startied ; Carton calls thiele conversation before and during @ thunder-storm, — VEE. 
Mansolgneur, a French lord, takes his chocolate; character of the people who frequented 
tuls rooms; Marquis Saint Evrémande drives over and kills Gaspard’s child: Defarge comes, 
and a stout woman, knitting. — VIII. ‘Tho marquls goes to hils country-seat; the poverty 
atricken village near it; 9 road-mender tells tho marquis of seeing a spestralooking rom 
swinging by the carriage drag; & poor woman, Whoo husband hax died of want, petitions 
the marquis for a bit of stone or weed to mMAFK his grave, —TX. He reaches the ehiitens, 
‘and soon his nephew, Charles Darnay, comes; their conversation; the aloeping night and 

(waking morning: the margals ia found aaassinated.—X. Charles Darnay texches in 
Finglund ; tells Dootor Manette his lore for Lucie. — XE. Conversation betweon Stry wer and 
Carton about Stzyver"s plan to marry Min Manotte— XIL Stryver, on his way to tell 
her his fntention, stops at Tellson's, communioates his plan to Mr. Lorry, who advises him 
‘not to doit; Mr. Lorry, after seelng Miss Manctto, relterates his advice, und Is astounded 
hy the nonchalance of Stryvor.—XIIL. Sydney Carton confesses to Miss Manette that sha 
Is tho last dream of hls 1ifo, and that even her influence exunot redeem htm from the eae 
tie has brought on his earoer and character, —XAV, The funoral of Roger Cly, fret fole 
lowod, then managed, by a florce mob; Jorry, having notided his wife that he atial! 
‘work " her for flopping," IC Ill success attend his efforts, goes out ™ Ssbing" after mide 
night; young Jorry follows; sees lin, Joined by two other men, enter a graveyards they 
alse & oft, and young Jerry flees home tn deadly fear, fhucying himeei€ closely pursued 
by the coffin; Cruncher, returning unsuccestful, takex Iie wife to task for It; neXt morte 
mug, on thele way to'Tellson's, young Jorry aaks his father about tho business of @ “resuit 
roctlon-rnaa." XY. Winedrinking at Defurge’s, madame Keeping shop; Deterge aid 
the fead-mender enter, and seon follow the three Jacques to the garret once coupled Wy 
Doctor Manotto; the rond-mender tella of Gaxpand, the asain of Marquia Saint ved: 
tmoudes bie arreat eleven months after the marders his imprisonment tn the marquis 
tastiog bis execution; Defargo and madamo go with the road-mender on Sunday to Fee 
anillea toaee the king and nobility’; Uke foademender ls enthnsiastio In bis loyal temo 
wWraons— XVE Defaryo tells madame that John Barvad has bess commbaloned at 
































A Sale of So Cltles. 415 


Forernment-spy for Saint Antoine, and dosoribes him; madame reassures Defange’s falling 
tourage; Barmd comes to the wine-shop; madame pats arose tn her halr, and the ous 
tomers all go out, leaving him talking with hor; he felgns muck prmpathy for Gaxpacd: 
Addrestes Defanee — who comes in —as Jacyuer, bot Is corrected: ho velle them that Miss 
‘Stanetto Is going to marry Charles Darnay.— XVII. Doctor Manette and Luclo under the 
plane-tree the evening before her marriwe; he assures her of his entire satisfaction that 
‘the ts to be married: telle her the thoughts and fancies ho had of her while In prison, — 
XVIII. Mr. Lorry gives her his parting bacholonblessing: the marriage; Darnay and 
Lucie leave for Warwickshire; something Darnay bad told the doctor Just betiro the 
marriage brings back his old bewilderment, and he roturns to making shots; expedienta 
Adopted by Mr. Lorry to restora tim, and not to mar Lacle"s wedding-tour. XIX. The 
tenth morning, Mr. Lorry flads the doctor recovered; has a ong conversation with him um 
Whe caaso of his malady, and obtalns hie consent to romove the ahoemaker’s bench and 
tools Goring his absence, XX. Carton sake and obtains permission of Darnay to come 
to his house ocemslonally; Lucle tells Darnay that Carton is better at hoart than he 
‘seems, and bogs for kind And generous treatment of hit, — XXL Echoes of tittle feet in 
Lucte's tif; Carton's manner when vielting the Darnays; Stryver shoulders himself Into 
‘wealth, marries a rich widow, Lakes her three sons to be taught by Damay, who declines 
the patronage; Mr. Lorry calla at Darnay’s, ane Saly evening, quita irritated by hls an- 
‘usual day's work; the same day the people of Saint Antoine rise to revolution; Detarge 
leads them In repeated furious asauite on tho Iastiliey when It 1s taken, tio forces the 
tarnkey to conduct him to North Tower, where Doctor Manette had beon confined ; appar 
fitly fads nothing; the governor Is stabbed by tho mob, and Madame Defargo hews of 
his head. — XXL Foulon, who had once told the famiahed people to eat grass, is taken, 
briefly tried, and ewiftly hanged XXILL A grim, shaggy man comes where the roade 
‘mender i at work, learns the location of the marquis's castle, then fills asleep; that night, 
‘the castle is burned; the villagers refuse to ald In extingutahing the fire, bat ring che bell, 
‘and illuminate thelr houses. — XXIV. Monselgneur, ropresentattre of the French nobility, 
escaped from Paris, at Tollvon's; Mr, Lorry announces to Darnay his plan of going to 
Paris to secure from Tellson’s Parla Baik some important books and papera; Darnay seet 
letter addressed to him by his roal name (Evrémonde); the depreciatiag cemarks of 
Monselgneur, and the coarse bullying remarks of Stryver; letter from Gabello In prison 
at aris, finploring Darnay’s wsalstauoo; Darnay resolves to go to Parle; sees Mr. Lorry 
off, writes leiters to Lacle and Doctor Manette, and next night atarta on his Journey. 
BOOK II. —Cuarrxn 1, He meets obstacles constantly rom citixenepateiotss nally t» 
furnished with escorts; Just excapes with life from the mob at Beauvals; arrives at Paris; 
Isatonce consigned to the prison of La Fores; Defarge accompanies him. aaking sone ques 
tions, but declaring that he witldo nothing for hina; at the prison, a company of refined and 
‘courteous prisoners welcome him: be Is put iu aell, and left to his maddening thoughts — 
Hi. Tetiton's Hank at Paris; Doctor Manetto and Lacie rash Into Mr. Lorry"s room, to tle 
‘utter surprise: Iv tells Lucio that he knows of no harm having befallen Darnay pute her 
In a mafer room, then looks out of a window with Doctor Manctte on a yard whore scores at 
fleree men and women are grinding Weapons dulled by mundering prisoners: Doctor Ma- 
nett, sxfo becansn he has been & Hastifie prisoner, rushes into the crowd, makes himsclt 
known, and ts hurried away to La Foreo to save Darnay.—IIL. Me. Lorry procures lodg> 
ngs for Lucio, bor daughtor, and Miss Troms; Defargo britgs him a note from tho doctors 
Mating that Darnay is safe; Madame Dofarge and The Vengeance look carefully wt Lucha, 
‘and bor child, but give tittle hoed to her ploa for kindness te Darnay 1 whas the doctor 
sald and heard while trying to Arve him; hls pe-fect welf-pomession and resolution; the 
sharp fomnle oXled La Guillotlae, Lucie's steady devotion to her household duties. —¥- 
‘She goes dally 4> a xpot where tho doctor had told her Darnay could see her, though she 
could not see hia: the horrible dance of the Carmagnole,—VI. Daruay ts summoned 
before the Tribunal; hixanewort; the testimony of Gabelle, Doctor Manotte, and Mr. Lorry ¢ 
‘te Us nequitted; the crowd carry himn hore In triumph. — VIL Miss Prose and Craneher 
‘prepare for an unusually elaborate marketing im honor of the release of Darnay's bole 
agrin arrosted on the accusation of Defarge, Madame, and another. —VIEE, Mie Hrory 
marketing with Jerry, meets her brother Solomon in The Good Republican Brutus of 
‘Antiguity;" he goes with ber into the street, and is Just getting rid of ber, when Jorry 



































s aa 








416 Ede Dickens Dlotfonarp. 


halfrecogntzes his, and Sydney Carton eaile him by name, “ Rarsady"* by @ alt Lures 
Carton induces Barsad to go with him to Mr. Lorry’s; convinces him that he kitows ¥0 
much of hls villany as to have bln in his powers Bard declares Cly dead, and Jenny 
‘vohomontly denies It-—~1X. Mr. Lorry questions Jerry as to bis Knowledge of Cys teing 
silve, and learns that Jerry la an“ Agricultoorol characters" Carton tells Mr, Larry he hne 
arranged with Darsad, To tn ono of the turnkeys at the Conclérgerte, to be adinitted ta 
Darnay ouce if it ahold go Lil with hims they talk of Lusle, of the days when they were 
children at their mothers" knees; Carton talks with a wood-tawyer abont the guillotine; 
Frocures some drugs from a chemist; walks the streets all night, repeating again and 
‘syain tho words road at his father's grave; Daruay again before tho Tribunal; the prose 
ulor states that Darnay ts denoonced by Monsieur and Madame Defarge, also by Doctor 
‘Manette: the doctor, denying the statement, In stopped, and obliged to alt down; Defarge 
tenlifles to having found tn North Tower a paper, written by Doctor Manette in prison tn 
1167, in whieh the doctor states, that in December, 1767, he was overtaken by two men was 
compelled to with them tos countey-seat two miles out of Parla, where he found « 
pationt, a young Woman, who in her delirium, #t regular intervals, shrieked, snd anid, 
“Sy husband, my father, and my brother.” then counted twelve; administered medicines 
‘with little effect; another patient, ® bay of roventeen, dying of a swont-woundt he Vella 
she doctor, in the presence of the wo unfecling brothers, how brutally these nobles treat 
‘Miele tonants: that the delirious young woman is his sisters that her husband wes worked 
todeath tn oriter that the younger brother might have her; that he had hidden tia younger 
‘ister, then tried to kill tho younger noble, and was mortally wounded: the young woman 
lea; the doctor writes all the circumstances to the minister; the wifo of Marquis St. 
Eyrémondo calls on the doctor, and expresses her great desire to do what she ean to atone 
for the grom wrongs of her husband and his brother; the doctor ts imprisoned; on this 
testimony, Darnay Is awiftly condemned to die within twenty-four hourk—XL. Darnay 
‘and Lacie meet & few moments in the court-roomy Carton earrries Lucie to @ carriage 
‘hence to her room; arranges to have Doctor Manotte make another effort to mare Darnay, 
‘and meet him at Mr. Larry's at nino o'slock that tiight XXL, Carton goos to Defarge’s 
wine-shop; hears Madame Defange, Jacques Three, and The Vengeance arge the utter ex- 
termination of all the family of Evrémonde; Defare opposes thir, for the doctor's wake : 
Madaine dectares herself the younger slater of the woman and boy Killed by the Rvnd 
mondes; at midnight, the doctor enters Mr. Lorry" room crazy, demanding his benoh 
again; Carton fads a passport tn his case; tells Mr. Lorry what ho heant Madame De 
farge say; arranges with him to havo evry thing ready to start for Englwod next day ak 
two, #.a6.3 then bida him" Good-by.”"— X11. Damay's last night tm the Conclérperie; he 
becomes composed ; Writes Ietters to Lucio, Dootor Manette, and Mr. Lacry: dreams of hia 
‘happy homo near Soho Square; wakes, and counts the hours calmly ; wonders how the gull- 
lotine ts mado; at one, r.6., Sydney Carton comes in; Carton diotates for Daraay to write, 
‘and, with drugs procured at the chemists, renders him unconscious; changer clothes with 
him: then Barsad carries him out as tf overcome wish grie(y Carton meets a sweet-faced 
seamatreaa in the hall whore the day's victims aro gathered, and promises to hold bar 
hhand as they ride to exeeution: the earriage. with Mr. Lorry, Doctor Manette, Damay, La 
19, and the child, reaches th Barrler; the papers are éxamined; they drive ms fast ws they 
dare, not to exaite suapiclov, Dut are not pursuedl.—XI¥. Madame Defarge, The Veu 
rance, and Janques Three determine that Lucie shall bo denounced; haring directed The 
Vengeance to reserve for hor a seat at the exeoution, Madame Welarge yoes 10 see Laci 
to bo able to bear witness that she lmpeached the Justice of the Iepublic; Jerry and Mina 
Pros consult as to the best place for them to start from: Jerry goes: Madame Detarge 
futers the house, and demands to see Lacie; Mis From atterly deflant; neither ander 
‘atauds a word the other says; wt last they grapple, and in the struggle Madame Is shot by 
her own pistols Mflsa Irom locks the door, throws the key Into the river, Joins Jerry, 
‘and they start for England, the erash of tho platolahot raging In her ears, and to eta 
there for ever. XV, Sydney Carton's ride in a sumbril to the guillotine; The Vengeance 
greatly excited because Madame Defurge does not come; Carton cheera and comforte 
the scarnstreas, they kiss, and are executed the prophotic thoughts Carton may have bat 
WC *he futers, experience of bs friends and foe. 

















Hunted Down, 


os 


ams tale was written spoclally for “The New-York Ledger,” <n which paper It 
‘4ppenred in the numbers for August 20 and 27 and September 3, 1869 (Vol, XV, 
No. 24-26), Mlustrated with seven woodeuts. It was republished In 1900 tn “AMT 
the Year Round,” 4th and 1ith of August (1st rerles, No, 07 and 8.) 





OHARACTERS INTRODUCED. 


Adams, Mr, Clerk in the lift-assurance office of which Mr. 
‘Sampson is the chief manager. 

Banks, Major, An old East India Director, who assists Mr, 
Sampson in rescuing Miss Niner from the toils of Mr. Julius 
Slinkton. 

Beckwith, Mr. Alfred. See Mrxtuam, Mn. 

Meltham, Mr. Actuary of the Incstimable Life-Assurance Com- 

* pany. He falls in Jove with one of Mr. Julius Slinkton's nieces, 
a lovely girl, whose lifs is insured in his office, She soon dies 
from the effects of a slow poison gecretly administered to her by 
her uncle; and Mr. Meltham, having become thoroughly assured 
of tho villain’s guilt, devotes himself thenceforth to the single 
object of hunting him down. Resigning his situation, he causes a 
report of his death to be put into circulation ; assumes the name of 
Mr, Alfred Beckwith; takes rooms in the Middle Temple, opposite 
those of Mr. Slinkton,—to whom he is personally unknown, — 
wnd makes them a trap for him, Affecting to be a confirmed ine- 
briate, he deludes the murderer into thinking that it would ke an 
easy thing to obtain an insurance on his life for two thousand 
pounds, and then to do kim to death with brandy, or, brandy not 

az 








Pit Ede Mickens Wictlonarp. 


proving quick enough, with something quicker. Tho plotting, 
however, into which Slinkton is led, is well understood all along, 
and is counterplotted all along. The fitting time having arrived, 
he is confronted with the evidences of his guilt, when, finding him 
self brought to bay, he swallows tome of the powerful poison he 
always carries with him, and falls down a dead man, 

Niner, Miss Margaret. Mr. Slinkton’s niece, She is savea 
from falling a victim to the wickedness of her uncle by the efforte 
of Mr, Sampson and Major Banks, who reveal to her his real 
character, and induce her to leave him for ever. 

Sampson, Mr. Chief manager of a life-assurance company, and 
narrator of the story, in which he is also one of the actors. 

Slinkton, Mr. Julius. A gentleman, educated, well bred, and 
agreeable, who professes to be on the point of going into ordera, but 
who is, in reality, a consummate hypocrite and villain. He effects 
in insurance for two thousand pounds on the life of Mr. Alfred 
Beckwith, and then attempts to poison him in arder to get the 
money ; but, being foiled in his object, he destroys bimself. 

In this character, Dickens has drawn a portrait, only slightly 
idealized, of Thomas Griffiths Wainewright, well known as a cox- 
combical writer for “The London Magazine,” under dre pseudonym 
of Janus Weathercock. ‘This monster actually poisoned a number 
of pertons whose lives had been insured for lange sums (among 
them his wife's step-sister and her mother); and in some instances 
he succeeded in obtaining the money. He was arreeted, at last, 
on a charge of forgery, and sentenced to be transported to Van 
Diemen’s Land, where he died of apoplexy, in 3862, at the age of 
fifty-seven. Lord Lytton has introduced hiw into bis powerfa 
novel of “ Lucretia; or, the Children of Night.” 





Uncommercial Traveller. 





‘Ix December, 1800, teventeen papers, on « variety of toples, which had previ 
‘tnaly appeared at intervals in All the Year Round,” were published In @ collee- 
tire form, under the above title, by Chapman and Hall. A second edition, with 
Mlustrations, In which the number of sketches was increased to twenty-eight, was 
brought out in the latter part of 1808. “There is present” in them, says m recent 
critic, “a wonderful delicacy of detail colored bya pleasant gayety. . . - It [would 
not) be ess to analyze the special charm of these cabinet gems. If wit, as wo 
huyo been told over and vrer again, conelsts in the surprise that arises from the 
Aiscovery of a relation between ideas which have not the leat slmilitude, there in 
an abondance of wit present in these essays, ut there Is m good-humored tone 
of modulated satire, and a charming grotesqueness, without (he least violence, 
which, elther by suggestion or shape, link the thourand material objecty about us 
to our mental sympathies, and delightfully bridge over the space between mind 
and matter.” 

‘The Uncommereial Traveller Introduces himrelf to the render in these words :— 

“Tam both a town-traveller and « country-traveller, and am always on the 
road. Figuratively speaking, I travel for the great house of Human Interest 
Brothers,and have rather a large connectioz. in the fancy goods way. Literally 
‘speaking, I am always wandering were and there from my rooms in Covent 
Garden, London,—now about the city streets, now about the country by-ronds, 
—reelng many little things, and some great things, which, because they interest 
me, I think may interest others.” 








CHARACTERS INTRODUCED. 


Anderson, John. A tramp, whose only improvidence appears to 
have been that he has spent the last of kus little “all” upon soap 


XL. Tramps. 
49 


_ 





20 Ebe Wickens Mictfonacp. 


‘Anieroott, Mrs, His wife; a woman spotless to behold XL 

ips 

Antonio, A swarthy young Spanish guitarplayer. V. Poor 
Mercantile Jack. 

Battens, Mr, A virulent old pensioner at Titbull’s, XX VIL Tis | 
bull's Almshouses. 

Bones, Mr. Banjo. A comic Ethiopian minstrel, with a black- 
ened face and a limp sugar-loaf hat. V. Poor Mercantile Jack, 
Bones, Mrs. Banjo. His wife; = “professional” singer. V. 

Poor Mercantile Jack. : 

Carlavero, Giovanni, Keeper of a small nice tion, 1 Meera 
small Italian town on the Mediterranean. He had been a political 
offender, sentenced to imprisonment for life, but was afterwards 
released through the zealous intervention of a generous English 
nobleman (Lord Dudley Coutts Stuart), Desirous of testifying 
his gratitude to his benefactor, whom he has not seen since his 
liberation, he sends him by Mr. Dickens an immense demijohn of 
wine, the first produce of his little vineyard. With infinite difli- 
culty this frail and enormous bottle, holding some half-dozen gale 
lone, is safely carried to England; but the wine turns to vinegar 
before it reaches its destination. Yet “the Englishman,” says 
Mr. Dickens, “told me, with much emotion in his face and voice, 
that he had never tasted wine that seemed to him so sweet and 
sound; and long afterwards the bottle graced his table”. XXVIIL 
The Italian Prisoner. 

Chips, A shipwright, who sells himself to the Devil for half a ton 
of copper, a bushel of tenpenny nails, an iron pot, and a rat that 
can speak. He gets disgusted with the rat, and tries to kill it, but 
does not succeed, and is punished by being subjected to a swarm 
and plague of rata, who finally compass his destruction by eating 
through the planks of a ship in which he has been “ pressed” for a 
sailor, XV. Nurse's Stories. 

Cleverly, Susannah. A Mormon emigrant; a young woman of 
business. XX. Bound for the Great Salt Lake. 

Cleverly, William. Her brother, also » Mormon emigrant, 
XX. Bound for the Great Salt Lake. 

Dibble, Mr. Sampgon. A Mormon emigrant; a very old man 
who is stone-blind. XX. Bound for the Great Salt Lake, 

Dibble, Mrs. Dorothy. His wife, who accompanies him. XX 
Lound for the Great Salt Lake. 





Ancommerclal Eravelter. 421 


Face-Maker, Monsieur the. A corpulent little man with a 
comical face. He is heralded as “the great changer of counte- 
nances, who transforms the features that Heaven has bestowed upon 
him into an endless succession of surprising and extraordinary vie 
ages, comprehending all the contortions, energetic and expressive. 
of which the human face is capable, and all the passions of the 
human heart, as love, jealousy, revenge, hatred, avarice, derpair.’ 
XXV. Jn the French-Flamish Country. 

Flanders, Sally. A former nurse of the Uncommercial Trav 
eller, and widow of Flanders, a small master-builder, XXV}. 
Medicine-Men of Civilization. 

Flipfield, Mr. A friend of the Uncommercial Craveller’s, XIX. 
Birthday Celebrations, 

Flipfield, Mrs, His mother. XIX. Birthday Celebrations. 

Flipfield, Miss, His elder sister. She is in the habit of speak- 
ing to new acquaintances, in pious and condoning tones, of all the 
quarrels that have taken place in the family from her infancy. 
XIX. Birthday Celebrations. 

Flipfield, Mr. Tom, called Tar Lona-Losr. A brother of Mr. 
Flipficld’s, After an absence of many years in foreign parts, he 
returns home, and is warmly welcomed by his family and friends; 
but he proves to be “an antipathctical being, with a peculiar power 
and gift of treading on everybody’s tenderest. place ;” and every- 
body wishes that he could instantly be transported back to the 
foreign parts which have tolerated him so long. XIX. Birthday 
Celebrations. 

Globson, Bully. A schoolmate of the Uncommercial Traveller's; 
a big fat boy, with a big fat head, and a big fat fist. XIX. Birth 
day Celebrations. 

Grazinglands, Mr. Alexander, A midland county gentleman, 
of a comfortable property, on a visit to London. VIL Refreshments 
for Travellers. 

Graginglands, Mrs. Arabella. His wife; the pride of her 
division of the county. VI. Refreshments for Travellers. 

Head, Oakum. A refractory {male pauper, who “would be very 
thankful to be got into a place, or got abroad." ILL. Wapping 
Workhouse. 

Jack, Dark, A simple and gentle negro sailor. V. Poor Men 
eantile Jack. 

Eo 


- © 





ee Ede Micke's Wictlonacp 


Jack, Mercantile, A representative of the sailors employed 
‘the merchant marias. V. Poor Mercantile Jack. 

Jobson, Jesse, Number Two. A Mormon emigrant; the — 
pa ce le, ol XX. Bound for the Great Salt 


Eins Horace. An inmate of the King’s Bench Prison, where 
be dics. XIE. Night Walks. 

‘He was u likely man to ook at, In the prime of life, well to do, ax clever aa 
he needed to be, and popular among many friends, He was suitably married, 
and had healthy and pretty children ; bat, like some falr-looking houses or falr- 
looking ships, ho took the dry rot... . Thoso who knew him had not 
done saying, “So well offt eo comfortably established! with such hope 
bim!"—.. . when, lof the man wns all dry rot and dust. 

Kindheart, Mr, An Englishman of an amiable nature, great 
enthusiasm, and no diseretion, XXVI. Medicine-Men of Civiliza 
tion, 

Klem, Mr. A weak old man, meagre and mouldy, who is never to 
‘be seen detached from a flat pint of beer in a pewter pot. XVI 
Arcadian London. 

Elem, Mrs. His wife; an elderly woman, laboring under a chronie 
sniff, and having a dejected consciousness that she is not justified 
in appearing on the surfuceof the earth. XVI. Arcadian London. 

Klem, Miss, Their daughter, apparently ten years older than 
either her father or mother. XVI Arcadian London. 

Mellows, Mr. J, Landlord of the “ Delphin’s Head.” XXTL An 
Old Stage-Coaching House. 

Mercy. A nurse who relates diabolical stories to the Uneommercial 
Traveller, when a child, with a fiendish enjoyment of his terrors, 
XV. Nurse's Stories. 

Mitts, Mrs, A pensioner at Titbull’s ; a tidy, well-savored widow, 
with # propitiatory way of passing her hands over and under one 
another. XXXVI. Tithull’s Almshouses, 

Murderer, Captain. A diabolical wretch, admitted into the best 
society, and possessing immense wealth. His missior is matrimony, 
and the gratification of a cannibal appetite with tender brides, 
XV. Nurse's Stories. 

Nan. A sailor's mistress. V. Poor Mercantile Jack. 

Onowenever, Mrs. Mother of a young lady (the Dora Spenlow 
of “David Copperfield," and the Flora Finching of “Tittle Dor 
rit") ardently loved by the Uncommercial Traveller in his youth 
XIX. Birthday Celebrations. 




















Gncommerclal Sravelier. 425 


It Isunnecessary to name her more particularly. Sho was older than f, and 
had y*-vaded every chink xud crerice of my mind for three or four years. I had 
held , fumes of Imaginary conversations with her mother om the subject of 
‘our union; and T had writtes letters, more In namber than Horace Walpole’, to 
that discreet woman, soliciting her danghter’s hand in marriage, I had nerer 
had the remotest intention of sending any of those lettera: but towrite them, 
nod, after a fow days tear them up, had been & subline occupation. 


‘An official friend of the Uncommereial Traveller's, 
lineally descended from the learned doctor of the same name, who 
was tutor to Candide, WIIL The Great Tasmania's Cargo, 


{un hls personal character, he {# as hamane and worthy a gentleman as any T 
know; In his official capacity; he unfortunately preaches the doctrines of his 
renowned ancestor, by demonatrating, on all occasions, that we live in tbe best 
of ull possible official worlds. 


Parkle, Mr. A friend of the Uncommercial Traveller's. XIV. 

¢ Chambers. 

wickear. A policeman. V. Poor Mercantile Jack. 

jainch, Mrs, The oldest pensioner at Titbull's; a woman who 

has “totally lost her head.”  XCXVIL. Tibull's Almshouses, 

‘Refractory, Chief. A surly, discontented female pauper, with a 

voice in which the tonsils and uvula have gained a diseased ascend- 

ency. III, Wapping Workhouse. 

Refractory, Number Two. Another pauper of the same charac 
ter. II. Wapping Workhouse. 

Saggers, Mrs, One of the oldest pensioners at Titbull’s, who has 
split the small community in which she lives into almost as many 
parties as there are dwellings in the precinct, by standing her pail 
outside her dwelling. XXVIL Tithull's Almshouses, 

Baloy, P., Family. A troupe of dramatic artists, fifteen in num- 
ber, under the management of Monsicur P. Salcy. XXV. In the 
French-Flemish Country. 

Sharpeye. A policeman. V. Poor Mercantile Jack. 

Specks, Joe, An old school-fellow of the Uncommercial Travel- 
ler; Afterwards # physician in Dullborough (where most of us 
come from who come from a country town). XII. Dullborough 
Town. 

Bpecks, Mrs. His wife, formerly Lucy Green; an old friend of 
the Uncommercial Traveller's. XII. Dullborough Town. 

Bquires, Olympia, An old flame of the Uncommercial Travel- 
ler’'a, XIX. Birthday Celebrations. 

Olympia was most beautiful (of courte); and I loved her to that degree, 


that I aaa cla 3 ek cot tthe ba tne aigh, empeennty be 
to Solitude, “O Olympia Squires 1”? 


| —_ _. 







424 The Mickens Mlctlonary. 
Btraudenheim. A shop-keoper at Strasbourg; a lango-l 


pear-noged old man, with white hair and keen Spee eh ay 
sighted. VIL Travelling Abroad. 3 

Sweeney, Mrs. A professional laundrees, in figure extremely 
like an old family umbrella. XIV. Chambers. 

Testator, Mr. An occupant of a very dreary set of chambers, in 
Lyon’s Inn, which he furnishes with articles he finde locked up in 
one of the cellars, and having no owner, so far as is known to any 
one. He is afterwards visited, late at night, by a man considerably 

sodden with liquor, who examines every article, claims them all 

as his own, and promises to call again the next morning, punctually 
at ten o'clock, but who fails to do so, XIV. Chambers. 
‘Whether he was a ghost, or a spectral {ilusion of conscience, oF a 
‘man who had no business there, or the drunken, rightful owner of the: 
‘with a transitory gleam of memory; whethor he got safe home, orhad no: 
to get to; whether he died of liquor on the way, or lived fn liquor ever 
‘wards, —he never was heard of more. 

Trampfoot. A policeman. V. Poor Mercantile Jack. 

Ventriloquist, Monsieur the. A performer attached to a 
booth at a fair. He is a thin and sallow man of a weakly aspect. 
XXYV. In the French-Flemish Country. 

Victualler, Mr, Licensed. Proprietor of a singing-house fre 
quented by sailors; a sharp and watehful man, with tight lips, and 
& complete edition of Cocker’s arithmetic in each eye. V. Poor 
Mercantile Jack. 

Wackley, Mr. A coroner; a nobly patient and humane — 
XVIII. Some Recollections of Mortality. 

‘Weedle, Anastasia, A pretty Mormon emigrant, elected ® 
universal suffrage the beauty of the ship. XX. Bound for the 
Great Salt Lake, 

Wyss. A simple, fiesh-colored firmlaborer, of eight and 

. XX. Bound for the Great Salt Lake. 5 














Great Cxpectations. 





‘Tu tale originally appeared fn “Al (he Year Round;” the first chapter betng 
In the number for December 1, 1800, On its eomplotion, fn 1861, it was 
hed by Chapman and Hall, fn three volumes, with iustrations by Mareus 
was “affectionately {nseribed to Chauney Hare Townshend.” 

















CHARACTERS INTRODUCED. 


Aged, The. See Wemmicx, MR, senior. 
Amelia. One of Mr. Jaggers’s clients. (Ch. xx.) 
Avenger, The. See Perrzr. 
Barley, Clara. Daughter of Old Bill Barley; a very pretty, 
slight, dark-eyed girl of twenty, or s0, of natural and winning man- 
ners, and a confiding and amiable disposition. She is betrothed to 
Herbert Pocket, whom she afterward marries, (Ch. xlvi, ly, lviii, 
lix.) 
Sarley, Old Bill. A bedridden purser; a sad old rascal, always 
inebriated, and tormented by the gout in his right hand—and 
everywhere else. (Ch. xlvi, Iviii.) 
Biddy, An orphan; second cousin to Mr. Wopsle, being his “great- 
aunt's grand-daughter.” She is a good, honest girl, poor in purse 
and condition, but with a wealth of true womanliness which makes 
Joo Gargery, whose second wife she becomes, very rich indeed. 
(Ch. vii, xviexix, xxxv, | ) 
Brandley, Mrs. A widow-lady at Richmond, with whom Estella 
is placed by Miss Havisham. (Ch. xxviii.) 
Camilla, Mr. John or Raymond. A reiat ve of Miss Havi- 
sham’s; a toady and a humbug. (Ch. xi, xxv.) 
uo ¢ 


a .. 













fhe Dickens Mictfonary. 





Mrs. His wife; sister to Mr, Pocket. She 
great deal of love for Miss Havisham, and calls on her husband to 
testify that her solicitude for that lady is gradually undermining 
her to the oxtent of making one of her legs shorter than the other 
(Ch. xi, xxv.) 

Clarriker. A young merchant or shipping-broker. (Ch. li, Iviil.) 

Coiler, Mrs, A toady neighbor of Mr. and Mrs. Pocket’s; a widow 
lady of that highly sympathetic nature, that she agrees with every 
body, blesses everybody, and sheds smiles or tears on everybody 
according to circumstances. (Ch. xxiil-) . 

Compeyson. A convict, and “the worst of scoundrels.” He 
Proves to be the man who professed to be Miss Havisham’s lover 
Mogwitch gives the following account of him to Pip: — 

Compey took mo on tobe his man snd pardner, And what was 

4 business In which wo was to go pardners? Compey’s businoss was 

dling, handwriting forging, stolen bank-note passing, and such like, 

of traps as Compey could set with bis head, and keep his own lege oat 


j got the profits from, and let another man in for, was Compey's 
q { ho more heart than @ fron file; ho was as cold as death, and had the 

j 

} 














Devil. . . . Not togo Into thethings that Compey planed, and I done, 
‘ad take a week,—Ill simply say to you, dear boy, . .. that that man 
auto uch nots ws made mo hie black rhave. Iwas always in debt to him, 
under his thumb, always a-working, always @gotting Into danger. He way 
younger than mo; but he 'd got craft; and he '1 got learning; and bo orermatebed 
mo five hundred times told, and no merey, 
He is at length committed for felony, is sentenced to seven 
i and is finally killed in « steuggle with Mage 
v, xlii, xlv, xlvii, |, liii-lvi.) 
Drummie, Bentley, called Tux Sriprn. A sulky, old-looking 
young man of a heavy order of architecture; idle, proud, 
reserved, und suspicious. He is a fellow-boarder with Pip at Mr. 
Pocket’s, and his rival for the hand of Estella, whom he marries, and 
treats with great cruelty. (Ch. xxiii, xxv, xxxviii, xliii, xliv, xlviii, 
Hatella. The adopted daughter of Miss Havishamn, and the herokia 
of the story. She proves to be the daughter of Abel Magwiteh 
(or Provis), Pip's benefactor, Her foster-mother tells Pip that she 
had wished for a little girl to rear, and to save from her own fate (see 
Havisiast, Miss); and that Mr. daggers had accordingly brought 
Rer such a child,—an orphan of about three years. 
+ When sho first came to me, I meant to save her from misory Uke my own 
At frst, I meant no more.” 
“Well, well!" sald I, “I hope so." 
"But as she grow, and promised to bo wery beautiful, T gradually ald 

















Great Bepectations 427 


‘snd with my praises, and with my Jowels, nud with my teachings, and with this 
figure of myself always befure her, —a warning to back and point my lewous,— 
Tatole her heart away, und pat fee fn its place.” 

Not content with moulding the impressionable child into the form. 
that ber own wild resentment, spurned affection, and wounded pride 
finds vengeance in, she marries her to an ill-tempered, clumsy, con- 
temptible booby (Bentley Drummle), who has nothing to recommend, 
him but money and a ridiculous roll of addle-headed predecessors 
After leading a most umhappy lif, she separates from her husband, 
who subsequently dies from an accident consequent on his ill-treat- 
ment of a horse. Some two years after this event, she happens to 
mect Pip (who has always loved her) on the very spot whore their 
first meeting had been when they were children. 

Ttook her hand fn mino, and we wont out of the ruined place; and as the 
morning mists had risen long ago, when I first left the forgn, so the exening 
mitta wore rising now; and, 1a all the brond expanse of tranquil light they 
showed to me, I saw tho shadow of no parting from her. 

(Ch. vil, ix, xi-xvi, xviil, xxil, xxvii, xxix, xxx, xxxii, xxiii, 
xxxvill, xxxix, xliii, xliv, xlviii-l, Ivi. Ivil, lix.) * 

Flopson. A nurse in Mr. Pocket’s family. (Ch. xxii, xxiii.) 
Gargery, Joe. A blacksmith; married to Pip’s sister, who is an 
out-and-out termagant. 


Joo was a fatr man, with curls of flaxen bair on each side of hix #mooth 
face, and eyes of such very undecided blue, that they seemed to have somehow 
got mixed with thetr own whites. Ie was n mild, good-natured, sweet-tem- 


pered, easy-going, foolish, dear fellow, —n sort of Hercules in strength, acd asso 
in weakness, 





“When Pip is a small boy, he is harshly treated by his sistor 
(with whom he lives, both of his parents being dead); but his 
kind-hearted brother-in-law _b Is _him as much as is possi- 
Yle, dnd makes quite a companion of him. In the course of conver 
sation, one night, when they happen to be left by themselves, Joo 
gives him some account of his carly history, of the circumstances 


attending his marriage, and of the principles on which he regulates 


his domestic conduct. 






Did w't you ever go to school, Joe, when you were as little as me? 

“No, Pip.” 

* Why did n’t you ever go to school, Joo. when you wore as litle ax mo?” 

“Well, Pip,” ald Jon, taking up the poker, and settling himself to his usual 
ocen pation, when he was thoughtful. of slowly raking the fire between the lower 
bars, “T'llte 1 you. My father, Pip,—ne were given to drink; and, when be 
were orertook with drink, he hammered away at my mother most onmerciful. 
‘Ie wore a'most the only hammering ne did, indeed, *xcepting st myvelf; and 


alls 


4 The Wickens Mlctlonarp, 


‘ho hainmored at mo with s wigor only to be equalled by the wigot with which be 
did n’t hammer at his anwil. You *re alistening and understanding, Pip?™ 

“Yes, Joo." 

“Consequence; my mother and me, we ran away from my father several 
Mmes; and then my mother, she'd go out to work; and she “d say, ‘Joe, abe 
say, ‘now, please God. you aiall have some schooling, elfld;? snd she 4 pat me 
toachool. Hut my father were that good in his hart, that he could n't abear to 
be without us: so he ‘d come with a most Sremenjons erowd, and make much a 
row at the doors of the houses where we was, that they used to be obligated to 
have n6 more to do with us, and to give ua upto him, And then he took ns 
home, and hammered us; which you see, Pip,” sald Joc, pausing tn his meditative 
raking of the fire, and looking at me, “ were a drawback oa say learning." 

Certainly, poor Jor? 

“Though mind you, Pip,” sald Joe with s judicial touch or two of the poker 
on the top bar, “rendering wnt ving equal jastion 
Ratwixt man and man, my father wore that good In hls hart; don’t you eee?” 

I didn’ neo; but K did n’t eay #0. 

“Well,” Joe parsued, “somebody must keep the pot s-biling, Pip, or the pot 
‘won't bile; don’t you know ?”” 

Tanw that, and said so, 

“ Consequence: my father 4id n't make objections to my golug to work: 10 T 
‘went to work at my present calling, which wero his, too, if he would hare followed 
it; and I worked tolersble hard, Tmssure you, Pip. In time, I were able to keep 
him; and I kep him till hewentoffinapurpleleptie ft. And it were my intentions 
to bavo hed put upon bis tombstone that Whateumeter the failings on his part, 
Remember, reader, lie were that good in his hart.” 

Joe recited this couplet with such manifest pride and careful perspieuity, that T 
asked hit if he had made tt himself. 

mado it,” sald Joe, “my own velf. T made tt in» moment. Itwns like 
striking out m horse-shoe complete in ® single blow. never was so much ster 
prised in all my life,—could n't credit my own ed: to-tetl you the truth, tmrdly 
believed It was my own ed. As Twas saying, Pip, it were my intentions to have 
liad It eut aver him: bat pootry costs money, cut ft how you will, amall or Iargey 
and it were not done, Not to mention bearers, all the money thnt could bespared 
were wanted for my mother. She were in poor elth, and quite broke. She were 
n't long of following, poor soul; and her share of peace come round at last.” 

Joe’ bine eyes turned a tittle watery: he rubbed first one of them, and then 
the other, jm a most uncongenial and uncomfortable manner, with the round knob 
an the top of the poker. 

“It were bat lonesome then,” sald Joo, “living here alone, and T Rot moquninted 
with your elster. Now, Pip,” Joe looked firmly at me, as if he knew I was not 
golng to agree with him, “your alster is a fine figure of a woman.” 

t could not help Joking at the fre in an obvious state of doubt. 

© Whatever family opinions. or whatever the world’s opinions on that eutject 
may be. Pip. your sister Jk"”—Foe tapped the top bar with the poker after every 
word following —“a—fine— figure. woman!” 

T could think of nothing better to say than “I am giod you think 40, Jon” 

“So min I," returned Joe, catching meup. “Sam gind Tthink so. Pip. A tle 
redness, or a littiematter of bone here or there, —what does it signify to me?” 

T angneonsly obwervod, if tt did n't algaify to him, ¢o whom lit tt wigalfy? 

“Cortalaly!” assented Joe. “That *s it. You ‘ro right, old chap! Whea « 
gt acqualnted with your slater, it were the ta" how eho was bringing you up by 








Great Brpectatfons, 429 





hand. Very kind of her, too, all the folks ¢ald, and T sald along with all the 
folks. As to you,” Joe pursued with # countenance expressive of socing some- 
thing very nasty indeed, “if you could have been aware how small and flabby and 
mean you was)—dear me, you 'd have formed the most contemptible opinions of 
yourself!® 


‘Not exactly relishing this, I sald, “ Never mind od 

“But 1 did oo i tc a a “When I 
offered to your sister to keep company, and to be asl such times: 
as she was willing and ready to come to the forge, I sald to ber, “And bring the 
poor little child. God bless the poor Little child!” K sald to your sister: ‘there's 
room for him at the forge,’ * 

I broke out crying, and begging pardon, and bagged Joe round the neck, who 
dropped the poker to ug ine, ahd to.ay, “esr ie beak of friendas aa'tun, Pip? 
Don't 

‘When this little interruption was over, Joe resumed, — 

“Well, you ace, Pip, and here we arc! That ’* about where it lights: here we 
‘are! Now, when you take me fn hand in my learning, ip (and I tell you beforo- 
hand f am awful dull, most awful dull), Mrs. Joe must n’t see too much of what 
we 're up to. It must be done, as X may say, on the aly. And why on the sly? 
10) tell you why, Pip.” 

‘He had taken up the poker aguin, without which, I doubt If he could have pro- 
cceded in his demonstration, 

“Your sister is glen to government.” 

“Given to government, Joe?” I was startled; for I had some shadowy idea 
(snd Iam afraid I must add hope) that Joe had divorced her tn favor of the lords 
of the admiralty or treasury. 

“Given to government," sald Joe,—“ Which I meantersay the govrerument 
of you and mywelf” 

“on 

“And she an’t over-partial to having scholars on the premises,” Joe contin 
ued, * and in partikler would not be over-partial to my belng scholar, for fear as 
I might rise, —like a sort of rebel; don’t you see?” 

Twas going to retort with an Inquiry, and had got #0 fur as * Why” — when 
Joe stopped me. 

“Stay abit. I know what you 're golng to aay, Pip: stay abit! I don't deny 
that your sister comes tho Mogul ofer us now and again, I don’t deny that she 
do throw us falls, and that she do drop down upon us hes Atsuch times as 
your alster is on the ram-page, Pip,” Joe sank his volce to a whisper, and glaoced 
‘st the door, “ candor compels fur to admit that sho is a Buster.” 

Joe pronounced this word as if it began with, at least, twelve capital B's. 

“Why don’t I rise? That were your observation when I broke it off, Pip?” 

“Yes, Joo.” 

© Well,” said Joe, passing the poker into his left hand, that he might feel his 
whisker; and I had no hope of him when he took to that placid occupation: * your 
sleter "6 a master-mind, —® master-mind.” 

“What "s that?” I asked, in some hope of bringing him toastand. Bat Joe 
was readier with his definition than I had expected, and completely stopped me by 
arguing circularly, avd avewerlng with a fixed look, ** Her.” 

“ And I an't a mastersmind,” Joe resumed, when he had unfixed his look, and 
got back to his whisker. “And, last of all, Plo,—and thie I want to aay very 
serous to you, old chap, —I see so much in my poor m« 
vod slaving, aud breaking ber honest heart, and never getting no peace in her 


4 


























| 





430 Ebe Dickens Mictlonarg, 





Pip; I wish there warn't no 
‘on myself: epee mee Tas ig | and Thope you 
MN overlook short-comingy.”” 

After the death of his wife, Joe marries Biddy, a sweet-tempered 
woman, who makes him an excellent wif, and with whom be lives 
happily for many years, ever doing the duty that lies before him 
with a strong hand, a quiet tongue, and a gentle heart, (Ch. ii-vil, 
ix, x, xli-xx, xxvii, xxxv, Ivii-lix.) See Garcery, Mrs. Jon 

Gargery, Mrs. Georgiana Maria, His wife; sister to Pip, and 

3 thorough shrew. 

Myatster . . . was more than twenty years older than f, and had established 
‘great reputation with herself and the neighbors because ahe had brought me 

by hand.” Having at that the to find out for myself what the expression 
meant, and knowing hor to have a hard and henry hand, and to be much in the 
habit of laying it upon her husband, as well as upon me, I supposed that Jow 
Gurgery and 1 were both brought up by hand. 

Bhe was not a good-looking woman, my sister; and hod a general tmpres 
ston that she must have made Joe Gargery marry her by hand. . . « 

With black hair and eyes [she] had such a prevaiting redness of skin, that I 
sometimes used to wonder whether it was possible she washed herself with « 
hutmeg-grater instead of soap, Sho was tall and bony, and almost always 
wore a coarse apron, fastened over her figure behind with two loops, and hare 
ing # square, impregnable bit in front that was stuck full of pins and needles, 
ade itn powerful merit in herself, and a strong reproach ugalust Joe, 
that she wore his apron #o much, . . « 

‘Joe's forge odjolned our house, which was a wooden house, as many of the 
dwellings in our country were—most of them —at that time. When Tran home 
from the churchyard, the forge was shut up, and Joo was altting alone In the 
kitchen, Joe and I being fellow-snfferers, and huving confidence as such, Jew 
{imparted m confidence to me the moment I raised the latch of the door, sod 
peeped in at him opposite to It, altting fn the chimney-corner. 

“Mra. Joe has been out a dozen times, looking for you, Pip; and she" out 
inking it a baker*s dozen.” 

















1d Joo; “and, what worte, aho" got Tickler with her.” 

At this dismal intelligence, I twisted the only button on my waisteoat roand 
‘and round, aud looked in great depreasion at the fire. ‘Tickler was a wax-ended 

slece of eane, worn amooth by collision with my tickled frame, 

* She sat down,” said Joc; “‘and she got up; and she made a grab at Tleklers 
and che ram-paged out. That’s what she did,” said Joe, slowly clearing the 
Aire between the bars with the poker: “she ram-paged ont, Pip. 

“Has sha been gone long, Joe?” I always treated bim ns u larger spectes of 
child, and as no more than my equal 

“ Well,” said Joe, looking up mt the Duteh clock, “she "s been on the ram. 
page, thie last spell, about five minutes, Tp, She" mcommg! Get behind the 
oor, old chap, and have the jack to wel betwixt you." 

I took the advice, My sister Sire, Joe, throwing the door wide open, and 








a 3) 


ently said, *Joo’ ngain, and once, ‘pardon? 


¥ 


Great Bz pectatlons. 43h 


finding m obstruction behind it, tmmediately divined the cause, and applied 
‘Tickler to further investigation. She concluded hy throwing me—I oftex served 
‘her a# a connublal missile—at Joe, who, glad to get hold of me on any terme, 
passed my on into the chimney, and quietly fenced me there with his great 
legs. 


When Pip grows up, he goes out into the world, and his ex- 
periences of his sister's tender mercies come to an end; but poor 
Jow continues to bear his ¢ross with exemplary patience, until 
death relieves him of it by opening a grave for Mrs, Gargery. 

“She had been In one of her bad states —though they had got better, of Inte, 
rather than worse—for four days, when she came out of it in the evening, Just 
‘at teatime, and said quite platnly, ‘Joe.’ As she bad never sald any word fora 
Jong while, F [Biddy] ran and fotcbed in Mr, Gargery from the forge. She 
mado slgus to me that she wanted him to eit down close to her, and wanted me 
to put her arms around his neck. So T pat them round his neck and she laid 
er head down ou his shoulder quite content end ratified. And x0 she pres 
nd once, ‘Pip? And £0 she 
nerer lifted her head up any more; and it was Just an hour later when we laid 
{t down on her own bed, because we found she was gone." 


(Ch. ii, iv-vii, ix, x, xii-xviii, xxiv, xxv.) See Onniex, Done. 

Weorgiana. A cousin of Mr. Pocket's, and a relative of Mrs. Havi- 
sham's; an indigestive single woman, who calls her rigidity reli« 
gion, and her liver love. (Ch. xi, xxv, !vii:) 

Havisham, Miss, Estella’s foster-mother. In her youth she had 
been a beautiful heiress, and looked after as a great match. She 
was pursued in particular by a certain showy man (Compeyson), 
‘who professed to be devoted to her. 








She had not shown much «usceptibitity up to that time; But all she porsexsod 
certainly came out then, and she passionately loved hitn there is no doubt that 
who perfectly idolized him, He practised on her aifection in that systematic 
way, that he got great sums of money from her; and he induced her to buy ber 
brother out of mabare In the brewery (which had been weakly left him by hls 
father), at an immense price, on the plen, that, when he was her husband, be 
must hold and manage It all. ... The marriage-day was fixed, the wedding. 
dresses were bought, the wedding-tour was planned out, the wedding-gueste 
‘were invited. The day came, but not the bridegroom. 


She received a letter from him, however, when ahe was dress 
ing for church, that most keartlessly broke the marriage off. When 
the recovered from a bad illness that she had, she laid waste the 
whole place where she resided (Satis touse), stopped all the clocks 
at twenty minutes to nine,— the time of her receiving the letter, — 
‘and nover afterwards looked upon the light of day. Pip, who way 
invited to her house when a small boy, thus describes it and it 
inmate :— 





r — 








482 She Dickens Mictfonarp. 


Tentered ..., and found myself ina pretty large room well lighted with 
wax-candies. No gllmpye of daylight was to bo seen in It, Tt was a dresving- 
room, as I supposed from the furniture; though much of it was of forms and 
‘ase then quite unkuown tome. But prominent in it was a draped table with 
'&® gilded looking-glass; and that I made out, at first sight, to be a fine lady's 
dressing:table, 

‘Whether I should have made out this object 10 soon, if there had been no fine 
lady sitting at it, Teannot say, In an arm-chalr, with an elbow reating on the 
table, and her hend leaning on that hand, eat the strangest Jady I bave ever 
‘teen or shall ever see. 

‘Sho was dreased In rich materials, —satins and Ince and silks, —all of white, 
Her shoes were white; and she had a long white veil dependent from her 
hair; and she had bridal fowers ta her hair: but her hair was white. Some 
bright jowels sparkled on her neck and on her hauda; and some other Jewels 
lay sparkling on the tablo. Dresses loss splendid than the dress she wore, 
‘and halfpacked trunks, were scattered about. She had not guite finished 
dressing; for she had but one shoe on (the other was on the table nenr her 
hond); her yell was but hatfarranged, her watch aud chain were not put 
‘on; and some Ince for her bosom lay with those trinkets, and with her handker- 
hief and gloves, and some flowers, and a prayer-book,—all confusedly heaped 
about the looking-ginss. 

Ii was not in the first minute that I saw all these things; though T saw more 
‘of them in tho Hrat minute than might beaupposed, But I saw that every thing 
‘within my view which ought to be white had been white long ago, and had lost 
{ts lustre, and was faded and yellow. Teaw that the bride within the bridal 
dress bad withered Like the dress, and like the flowers, and had no brightness 
Jef but the brightness of her sunken eyes. saw that the dress had been put 
upon the rounded figure of # young woman, and that the figure upon which Is 
now hung loose had shrunk to skin and bone, 


Filled with bitterness towards all mankind, Miss Havisham 
adopts a beautifal orphan-girl (Estella), and rears her in the midst 
of all this desolation, educating her to steel her heart against all 
tenderness, but to lead young men on to love her, that she may 
tweak their hearts. (Ch. viii, ix, xi-xiv, xix, xxii, xxix, xxxvili, 
liv, xlix, Iwi) See Esrecua. 








«Satis House,’ the residence of Atiss Havisham, iles w little to the west 
of Boley House, near Rochester. and derived its peculiar name from the fact of 
Tichandl Watts entertaining Queen Elizabeth in It, when on her Journey round 
the coust of Sussex and Kent, in 1573. Here she staid some days; nd, on her 
Tearing, Watts apologized for the stnallaess of the house for 40 great & queen, 
She merely replied, * Sats,’ signifying she was well content with her sceommo= | 
dation." — Hotten's Lifeof Dickens, p. 264, | 


Hubble, Mr. A wheelwright, who isa friend of Mrs. Joe Gar 
gery’s; a tough, high-shouldered, stooping old man, of a sa 
fragrance, with his legs extraordinarily wide apart. (Ch iv, v 
xxxv.) 

Hubble, Mrs, His wife; a little, sharp-eared persomy 








Great Gypectations. 433 


aconventionally javenile position, because she married Mr, Hubble 
when she was much younger than he. (Ch, iv, ¥, xxxv.) 

Jack. A grizzled, slimy man, with a slushy voice, who is employed 
on a little causeway on the Thames. (Ch. liv.) 

Jaggers, Mr. A criminal lawyer of Little Britain, employed by 
Pip’s unknown patron to inform him of his “great expectations,” 
and to act as his guardian until be comes into full possession of his 
fortune. 

‘He was a burly man of an exceedingly dark complexion, with an exceedingly 
large head and a correspondingly large hand. .. . Ie was prematurely bald 
00 the top of his head, and had bushy, black eyebrows that would n° lie down, 
but stood up bristling. His eyes were set very deep In his head, and were die- 
agreeably sharp and suspicious. He had » very large watch-chain, and very 
poss gee his beard and whiskers would have been if he had let 

Mr. Jaggers has an air of authority that is not to be disputed, 
and a manner expressive of knowing something secret about every- 
body that would effectually do for euch individual, if he chose to 
disclose it. His clerk tells Pip that it always seems to him as if his 
master had set & man-trap, and was watching it. When he is not 
biting his large forefinger, he is in the habit of throwing it, in a half 
bullying sort of way, at the person be is talking with, He noyer 
Teagbas but he wears great bright creaking boots, and in poising 

‘self on these, with his large head bent down, and his eyebrows 
joined together, awaiting an answer, he sometimes causes the boots 
to creak as if they laughed in adry and suspicious way. (Ch. xi, 
xviii, xx, xxi, xxiv, xxvi, xxix, xxxvi, xl, xlviii, xlix, li, Ivi.) 

Magwitch, Abel, alias Paovis. A convict who escapes from the 
Hulks, and, meeting Pip, terrifies the boy into supplying him with 
food anda file to enable him to file off his fetters. Though very soon 
captured, and transported to New South Wales, he retains a grateful 
remembrance of Pip, and after some years, growing wealtly in the 
business of shecp-farming, scts him up as a gentleman, making Mr. 
Taggers his guardian and banker. He does this privately, however: 
and Pip supposes himself to be indebted to Mies Havisham for his 
good fortune, —a mistake which that lady, for reasons of her own. 
does not trouble herself to correct. Magwitch at last returns to 
England under the assumed name of Provis, and makes himself 
known to Pip, who endeavors to save his benefactor from recapture, 
but in vin. In spite of everv precaution, Magwitch is discovered 

2 


‘a 





iH Ebe Wickens Mictlonarp. 


and taken ; but he dies in prison, and thus escapes execution. (Ch 
i, tii, v, xxxix-alii, xlvi, liv-lvi.) 

Mary Anne, A neat little girl whois Wemmick’s servant. (Ch. 
xxv, xlv.) 

Mike. A one-vyod client of Mr. Jaggers, (Ch. xx, li) 

Millers. A nurse in Mr. Pocket’s family. (Ch. xxii, xxiii.) 

Molly. Mr. Jaggers’s house-keeper, and a former mistress of Abel 
Magwiteh, by whom she is the mother of Estella. (Ch. xxiv, xxvi.) 


Rather tall, of a lithe, nimble figure, extremely pale, with Jarge blue eyes 
and a quantity of streaming light halr. I eaunot say whether any dixensed 
affection of the heart caused her lips to be parted as If xhe were panting, and 
her fuoe to bear # curious expression of suddenness and flutter; but T know 
that I had been to see Macbeth at the theatre a night or two befure, and that 
hor face looked to me as if it were all disturbed by tery alr, Uke the fxoes I hud 
soon rise out of the ealdrun. 


Orlick, Dolge. A journeyman employed by Joe Gangery. He 
secrotly strikes a blow, which results in the death of Mrs. Gargery ; 
and he afterwards attempts the life of Pip. (Ch. xv-xvil, xxix, 
xxx, lili.) 

He was a brosd-shouldered, loose-timbed, swarthy fellow, of great 
never In ahurry, and always slouching. He never even seemed to come to hls 
work on purpose, but wonld slouch in as if by mere accident; and when he went 
to the Jolly Bargemen to cat his dinner, or went away at night, be would 
slouch out like Cain oF the Wandering Jew, —as if ie had no idea where he was 
‘going, and no intention of ever coming back. He lodged at a slufce-keeper’s, 
out on the marshes, and on working-days would come slouching from lis her- 
mitage, with his hands in his pocket, and his dinner loosely tied in @ bundle 
round his neck, and dangling on bis back. On Sundays, he mostly lay all day om 
slaice-gates, or stood ngainst ricks or barns, He alwnys slouched, 
with bis eyes on the ground; and when accosted, or otherwise required to raiee 
them, he looked up in a half-resentful, halfpuzzied way, as though the only 
thought he ever had was, that it was rather an odd and injurious fact that be 
should never be thinking. 

Pepper, called Tne Avenoer. Pip's boy. (Ch. xxvii.) 

T got on so fast, of inte, that T had even started « boy in boots, — top-boots, =» 
in bondage and slavery to whom F mighthave been sald to pass my days. For 
after I had mado my monster (out of the refuse of my washorwoman's family), 
and had clothed him with # blue coat, canary waistcoat, white cravat, 2reamy 
breechos, and the boots already mentioned, I had to find him a little todo and a 
great deal to eat; and with both of those horrible requirements he haunted my 
existence. 

Pip. See Prrnw, Prouire. 

Pirrip, Philip, called Pir. The narrator and the hero of the story5 
“a good fellow, with impetuosity and hesitation, boldness snd diffe 
dence, action and dreaming, curiously mixed in him” 














Great Brpectations, 4385 


‘My fathor’s family namo being Pirrip, and my Chrittian name Philip, my 
Infant tongue could make of both names nothing longer or more explicit than Pip: 
20 Tealled myself Pip, and came to be ealled Pip. 

His father and mother being dead, Pip is brought up “by hand ™ 
by his sister, Mrs. Joe Gargery, who is more than tweuty years 
older than himself, She is something of a shrew, and does not 
treat him very kindly; but her husband, being a fellow-suiferer, 
makes an oqual and companion of him, and they are “aver the 
best of friends.” When Pip is old enough, he is apprenticed to Joe 
to learn the blacksmith’s trade; but, befare he is out of his time, he 
is informed, that, through the generosity of an unknown friend, he 
will one day come into a handsome property; and in accordance 
with the wish of his benefactor he removes to London to be brought 
upasagentleman. Elated by his good fortune, he looks down upon the 
humble friends of rlier d i i 
kindness when he sees them, which is but seldom. At last, to his 
astonishment and disgust, he discovers Lis patron to be a convict for 
whom he had done a favor when a child, Transported for crime, 
this man (Abel Magwitch) has retained a grateful sense of the kind- 
ness Pip had shown him, and, accumulating wealth, bas determined 
to educate and provide for him, and ultimately to make him his heir. 
‘Though sentenced for life, such is his desire to seo the gentleman ha 
has made, that he rans the risk of detection, returns to England, 
makes himself known to Pip, and avows himself his benefuctor. 
‘This declaration is a staggering blow to Pip, who has always sup- 
posed himself to be a protégé of Miss Havisham's, and the intended 
husband of her adopted daughter, Estella, with whom he jg deeply in’ , 
wove. The young lady, however, is married to another; and, toadd® of. 
to his troubles, Magwitch is recognized, denounced, arrested, tried," 
and sentenced to death, Fortunately for himself, he dies in prison o) 
sefore the day of execution arrives. His possessions being, under the 

aw, forfeited to the crown, Pip finds himself suddenly reduced to 

overty, and arrested for debt. He is on the point of being thrown 
” Into jail, when he is seized with a malignant fever, becomes delirious, 

and suffors greatly. When he begins to recover, he finds bis old 

friend Joe by his bedside. 

After I had turned the worst peint of my Illoese, I began to notice, that, while 
all ts other features changed, this oue consistent feature did not change. Whoever 
samo about me still settled down into Joe. I opened my eyes in the aight, and T 
smw [1 the great chair at the bedside Joe. I opened my eyes in the day, and slt- 
Aing on the window-seat, smoking bls pipe in the shaded open window, still I saw 
"oe. I anked for cooling drink, aud the dear hand that gave it me waa Joe's. 1 


—— 




















66 She Wickens Oictlomarg , 


*aak back on my pillow afler drinking. and the face that looked #0 hopefully 
aad tenderly epos me wae the face of Joe. 

At last, one day. I took courage, and said, “Js it Joo?” 

‘Asdthe dear obd bome-roice answered, “ Which it alr, old chap” 

“0 Joe! you break my heart, 
mw of my ingratliade. Dow't be so goad to me!™ 

Vor Joe bet actually tal is head dows o= the pillow at my side, and pet 


bie arm roand my neck, Im bis Joy that I knew him, 

“Which dear old Pip, off chap,” eid Jor, “roo and me was ever friends, 
‘And when jos re well nage tego out fr acide— want laia™ 

After which, Joe withdrew to the window, aad stood back toward 
me, wiping bis eyes, And. as my extreme weakness prevented me from get 
Ung up and going to Mm, I bay there, penitently whispering, “QO God, Bless 
him! © Goa, bless this gentle Christian man!” 

When he gets about again, Pip sells all he bas, pats aside as 
much as he can for a composition with his creditors, becomes 
a clerk, and, after some years, a partner, in the house of 
& Co,, and finally marries Estella, who has been left a widow, = 
whom suffering has bent and broken into a better than her former 


shape. 
Pocket, Herbert. A son of Matthew Pocket’s, who becomes a 


warm friend of Pip’s. He has “great expectations” as well as 
Pip, whom he quite astonishes with the grandeur of his ideas and 
his plans for making money. 


‘We were very gay nnd sociable; and I asked him, tn the coarse ef converse 
tion, what be was. He replied, “ A capltatist, an insurer of ahips™ .. 

I had grand ideas of the wealth and importance of tneurers Of ships ta 
‘te city,... . But, ... there came upon me, for my rellef, that odd fmpres 
sion that Herbert Pocket would never be very auceessful or rick. 

“T shall not rest satisded with morely employing my eapital tn 
whips: Ishall bay up rome good lifeasurance shares, and cut into the Dine 
tion. I shall also do @ little {n the mining way. None of these things will 
interfere with my chartering a few thousand tons on my own seeount. 1 think 
I phall trade," #ald he, leaning back in his chatr,“*to the Kast Indios for silky, 
shawls, «plows, dyes, drags, und precious woods. It's wn interesting trade* 

“ And the profits are large?" said 1. 

“Tremendous! ™ aad he. 

I wavered again, aud began to think here wore greater expectations than 
my own. 

“Think I shall trade also,” sald he, puttiog ble thumbs in Bis walateoat 
pockets, to the West fudles for «ugar, tobaceo, and rum. Alo to Ceylon spe 
‘dally for elephunta’ tu: 

* You will want « good many ships," sald T. 

A perfect fleet," raid he. 

Quite overpowered by the magnificence of theve transactions, I asked bis 
whore the ships he fusured mostly traded to at present. 

“T have n't begun Insuring yet," be replied. “ f am looking about me” 





Great Srpectatlens, 437 


Somehow, that pursuit seemed more to keeping with Barnard’s Tun. I said 
Una tone of conviction), Ab-h1” 

“Yes, Tam Ina counting-house, and looking about me.” - 

«£5 u counting-house profitable? "" I waked, 

“To—do you mean to the young fellow who ’s init?” he axked in reply. 

Yes: to you.” 

“Why, neno} not to me,” Ie sald this with tho air of one carefully reckoning 
ep, and striking a balance. “Not directly profitable. That is, {t does n't pay me 
any thing. aud Thave to—keep myself." 

‘This, cortainly, had not ® profitable appearance, and I shook my head ss if 1 
would imply that {t would be difficult to lay by much accumulative eopital fom 
much a source of Income, 

But the thing 4s," sald Herbert Pocket, “that you look about you. That's the 
Bund thing. You are in a counting-house, you know, and you look about you.” 

It atruck me as a singular tmplication that you could n't be oat of a countings 
house, you know, and look about you; but I silently deferred to hls experience. 

“Then the time comes,” said orbert, “when you see your opening. And 
you go In, and you swoop upon ft, aud you make your eapital. and then there 
you aro! When you have once made your capital, you hare nothing to do but 
employ it.” 

Pip’s lavish habits lead Herbert into expenses that he cannot 
afford, corrupt the simplicity of his life, and disturb is peace with 
anxieties and regrets, 

At Startop’s suggestion, we put ourselves down for election into a club called 
« The Finches of tho Grove; "the object of which Institution I havenever divined, 
{Fit were not that the members should dine expensively once a fortnight, to quar- 
rel among themselves as much as possible after dinner, and to eause six waiters to 
get drank on the stairs. I know that these gratifying social ends were so invari- 
‘ably accomplished, that Herbert and I understood nothing else to be referred to 
4u the first standing toast of the society, which ran, “ Gentlemen, may the pres 
ent promotion of good feeling ever reign predominant among the Finches of the 
rove!” 

In my confidence ip my own resources, I would willingly have taken Herbert 
‘expenses on myrolf; but Herbert was proud, and I could make no such proposal 
to him: so he got Into diMoutties in every direction, and continued to look about 
him. When we gradually fell into keeping late hours and late company, T noticed. 
that he looked about him with a despondent eye at breakfast-time; that he began: 
to look about him more hopelessly about mid-day; that he drooped when he came 
4u to dinner; that he seemed to descry capital ta the distanos, rather clearly, after 
dinner; that ho all but realized capital, and banked {¢ toward midnight; and that, 
at about two o'clock In the morning, be became so deeply despondent again as ty 
talk of buying a rifle, and going to America, with a general purpose of compelling 
buffaloes to make his fortune. .. . 

‘We spent as much money as we could, and got ns little for ft as people could 
‘nuke up their minds to give us. We were always more or less miserable; and 
wort of our acquaintance were In the same condition. Thore was a gay fletion 
among us that we were constantly enjoying ourselves, and m ekeleton truth that 
‘wo never did. To the best of my belief our case was, [0 the lust aspret, a rather 
*ommon one, 

At certain times, — meaning st uncertain thmer* for they depended on our 
fnumor,—T would say to Herbert, as if it wore a remarkable discovery, ~ 

me 

















— 








438 The Dickens Wicttowary. 


“My doar Herbert, wo aro getting on badly.” 

My dear Handel,” Herbert would say to me in all sincerity, “if yor wil 
believe me, those very words were on my lips by a strange coincidence.” 

“Then, Herbert," I would respond, * lvt ux look into our alfulrs.!* 

We always derived profound satisfaction Crom making aa appointment fo} 
this purpose. T always thought myself, this was business, this was the way tt 
‘confront the thing, this was the way to take the foe by the throat, And I know 
Herbert thought so too. 

‘We generally ordered something rather special for dinner, with m bottle af 
‘something similarly out of the common way, in order that our minds might bt 
fortitied for the occasion, nnd we might come well up to the mark, Diane) 
‘over, we produced a bundie of pens, a copious supply of ink, und a goodly snow 
‘of writing and blotting paper; for there was something very comfortable i 
having plenty of stationery, 

‘I would then take a sheet of paper. and write across the top of it, in « nes) 
hand, the heading, “ Memorandum of Pip's Debts,” with Barnard’s Inn aud 
the date very carefully added, Herbert would also take a sheet of paper, and 
write across It, with similar formalities, “* Memorandum of Herbert's Debts!" 

Each of us would then refer to a confused heap of papers at his aide, which 
‘had been throws Into drawers, worn into holes {n pockets, half-burned ta Hight 
Ing candles, stuck for weeks Into the looking-ginss, nd otherwise damaged, 
‘The sound of our pens going refreshed us exceedingly, insomuch that T some 
times found fr difficult to distinguish between this edifying busiaeasproceeding 
and actually paying the money. In polot of meritorious character, the twa 
things seemed aboat equal. .. . 

When 1 had got all my responsibilities down upon my Hat, T compared ech 
with the bill, and ticked {t off. My scl€approval when I ticked an entey waa 
Almost a lnxurious sensation. When f had ao more ticks to make, I folded all 
my Dilla up uniformly, docketed each on the back, and tied the whole Into 9 
symmetrical bundle, Then I did the same for Herber: (who modestly eald he 
had not my administrative genius), and felt that I had brought his alfairy 
Anto a focux for him. 

My business-habits had one other bright feature, which I called “leaving a 
murglaw” For examplo; aupposing Herbert's debts to be one hundred and 
sixty-four pounds four and twopence, I would ray, * Leare m margin, wud pat 
them dows at two hundred.” Or, supposing my own to be four times as miueh, 
T would leave a margin, and put them down at seven hundred. Thad the high: 
est opinion of the wisdom and prudence of this samo margin; bat fam bound 
to acknowledge, that, on looking back, I deem ft to hare been an expensive 
devion; for we always ran into new debt Immediately, to the full extent of thee 
margin, and sometimes, In the sense of freedom and solvency It imparted, got 
pretty far ou into another margin. 


Ata later date, Herbert becomes a partner in the house of Clare 
riker & Co, through the kind assistance of Pip, which is secretly 
rendered, and is not discovered for many a year, He marries 
Clara Barley, (Ch, xi, xxi-xxvill, xxx, xxxl, xxxiv, xxxvi-xli, 
xiv-xivil, xlix, 1, lli-ly, lviil.) 

Pocket, Alick. One of Mr. Pocket’s children, who makes ar: 
rangements, while still wearing a frock, for being married to » 
suitable young person at Kew. (Ch. xxii, xxiii.) 





























Great Bppectatlons. 439, 


Pocket, Jane. A little daughter of Mr. Pocket’ mere mite, 
who has prematurely taken upon herself somo charge of the oth- 
ers, Her desire to be matrimonially established Is so strong, that 
she might be supposed to have passed her short existence in the 
perpetual contemplation of domestic bliss. (Ch. xxii, xxiii.) 

Pocket, Joe. Another child. (Ch. xxiii.) 

Pocket, Fanny, Another child. (Ch. xxiii.) : 

Pocket, Mr. Matthew. A relative of Miss Havisham's, living 
at Hammersmith, with whom Pip studies fora time. Ho is. a geu- 
tleman with a rather perplexed expression of face, and with his hair 
disordtred on his head, as if he did n't quite see his way to putting 
any thing straight. (Ch. xxif-xxiv, xxxiii, xxix.) 


By degrees I learned, and chiefly from Herbert, that Mr. Pocket had been 
educated at Harrow and at Cambridge, where he had distinguished himself; 
Dut that, when he had bad the happtess of marrying Mra. Pocket very early 
1n tif, he had impaired his prospects, and taken up the calling of grinder, 
After grinding a number of dull bindes (of whom ft was remarkable that thelr 
fathers, when Influential, were always going to help him to preferment, but 
always forgot to do it when the blades had left the grindstone), be had wearied 
‘of that poor work, and come to London. Here, after gradually falling to 
Jofiier hopes, he bad “read" with divers who had lacked opportunities, or 
negleoted them, and had refurbished divers others for special occasions, and 
had turned his asquirements to the account of literary compilation and correc: 
Vion, and on such means, added to some very moderate private resources, still 
annintained the house T saw. 

Pocket, Mrs, Belinda. His wife. (Ch. xxii, xxiii, xxiii.) 

Mire, Pocket was the only daughter of # certain quite accidental decensed 
Anight, who had Invented for himself a conviction that his deceased father 
‘would have been made a baronet, but for somebody's determined opposition, 
arising out of entirely personal motives (I forget whose, if I ever knew, — 
the sovercign’s, the prime-minister's, the lord-chancellor's, the Archbishop of 
Canterbury’, anybody's), and had tacked himself" on the nobles of the earth, 
in right of this quite supposititious fact. I believe he had been knighted uim= 
aclf for storming the English grammar at the polnt of a pen in a desperate 
‘address, engrossed on vellum, ou the oceaston of the laying of the first stone of 
some building or other, and handing some royal personage either the trowel or 
the mortar. Be that as it may, he had dirested Mrs. Pocket to be brought up 
from her cradle as one, who, in the nature of things, mast marry a title, and 
‘who was to be guarded from the acquisition of plebelan domestic knowledge. 
Bo successful a watch and ward had been established over the young lady by 
‘this judicious parent, that she had grown up highly ornamental, but perfectly 
helpless and uscless. With her character thus happily formed, fo the first bloom 
of her youth she tind encountered Mr. Pocket, who was also 1n the first Boars 
of youth, and not quite decided whether to mount to the woolsack, or te root 
‘lmself in with & mitre. As hie doing the one or the other was a mere question 
of time, ho and Mrs. Pocket liad taken time by the forelock (at a vonson when, 





a0 Ede Dickens Mictlonary. 


to Judge from Its length, It would seem to have wanted cutting), and hed mar 
ried without the knowledge of the judicious parent, ‘The Judictons parent, 
haying nothing to bestow or withhold bat lis blessing, had handsomely settled 
that dower upon them after a short struggle, and had Informed Mr, Pocket that 
his wife was *s treasure for ® prinos." Mr, Pockst had invested the prince's 
treasure in the ways of the world ever since; and it was supposed to have 
brought him in but indifferent interest. Still, Mra. Pocket was, in general, tie 
object of a queer sort of respectful pity, because she had not married s tities 
while Mr. Pocket was the object of a queer sort of respectful reproach, because 
he had never got one. 


Pocket, Sarah. "A relative of Miss Havisham; a little, dry, 
brown, corrugated old woman, with a blandly-vicious ae 
small face that might have been made of walnut-shells, ‘a large 
mouth like a cat’s, without the whiskers. (Ch. xi, xv, xix, xxix.) 

Potkins, William, A waiter at the Blue Boar, (Ch, Iviii.) 

Provis. See Maowrren, ABEL, 

Pumblechook, Uncle. A well-to-do corn-chandler and seeds- 
man; uncle to Joo Gargery, but appropriated by Mra. Joc. Ho is 
a large, hard-breathing, middle-aged slow man, with a mouth like a 
fish, dull, staring eyes, and sandy hair standing upright on bis 
head; so that he looks as if he had been choked, and had just come 
to. Pumblechook is the torment of Pip’s life. While a mere 
boy, the bullying old fellow is in the habit of coming to Mrs, Gare 
gery’s house, where Pip lives, and discussing his character and 
prospects; but this he can never do without having the child 
before him to operate on. 

He would drag me up from my stool (usually by the collar) when T was 
quiet in a corner, and putting mo befare the fire, as if T were going to be evoked, 
would begin by saying, Now, mum, here is this boy,—here ts this boy whlch 
you brought up byl Hold up your head, boy, and be for ever grateful unto 
them which ao did do. Now, mum, with respeetions to this boy.” And then 
he would rumple my hal the wrong way (which, from my earliest remem- 
Drance, . . . [have in my soul denied the right of any fellow-areature to do), and 
would bold mo before him by the sleeve, a spectacle of Imbecility only to be 
‘equalled by himself. 

When Pip comes, most unexpectedly, into property and “great 
‘exnectations,” and is about departing for London, the obsequious 
ness of Pumblechook is equal to his former assumption of an- 
thority. 

“My dear friend,” raid Mr. Pumblechook, taking me by both hands, ... @¥ 
sive you Joy of your good fortune. Well deserved, well deserved!” 

‘This was coming to the polat; and I thought it m sensible way of expressing 


himself. 
«To think," aaid Mr. Pumblechook, wfter snorting admiration at me for some 














PUMELECHOOK AND WOPSLE, 














Great Srpectations. 441 


‘moments, “that I should have been the humble instrument of leading up to this, f 
# proud reward.” 

T begged Mr, Pumblechook to remember that nothing was to be ever sald or 
hiinted on that point, 

“ My dear young friend,” sald Mr. Pumblechook, “if you will allow me to calf 
you 10 — 

I murmured, “Certainly; and Mr, Pumblechook took me by both hands again, 
and communicated » movement to his walsteont, that had an emotional appear. 
‘ance, though {t was rather low down. “My dear young friend, rely upon my 
doing my little all in your absence, by keeping the fact before the mind of Joseph 
Joseph!” sald Mr. Pumblechook, in the way of m compassionate adjuration. 
Joseph, Joseph!” ‘Thereupon he shook lis head and tapped It, expacestng hit 
senso of deficiency tn Joseph. 

“But my dear young friend,” said Mr. Pumblechook, “ you must be hungry, you 
must beexhausted. Be seated. Here is a chicken had round from the Boar: here 
{sa tongue bad round from the Boar; here’ ono or two little things that I hope 
you may not despise, But do 1," sald Mr, Pumblechook, getting up again the 
moment after he had sat down, “seo afore me him as I ever sported within his 
times of happy infancy? And may I,may 12”— 

‘This may I” meant, might he shake hands? Koonsented; and be was fervent, 
‘end then aat down again. 

+ Hore ts wine,” sald Mr, Pumblechook. “Let us drink, ‘Thanks to Fortune; 
and may she ever pick ont her favorites with equal Judgment!? And yet I cane 
not," «ald Mr. Pumblechook, getting up again, “see afore me one, and likeways 
drink to one, without again expressing — May f, may 1?"— 

I said he might; and he shook hands with me again, and emptied his glass and 
turned ft upside down. 


‘When Pip is reduced to poverty by the death of his patron, Mr. 
Pumblechook again changes his manner and conduct, becoming as 
ostentatiously compassionate and forgiving as he had been meanly 
servile in the time of Pip's new prosperity. 

“Young man, I am sorry to see you brought low; but what else could be 
expected? What eine could be expected? . . « 

“This is him . . . as T hare rode in my shay-cart; this ts him as T have seen 
brought up by hand; this fs Lim uatoe the slater of which Iwas uncle by mar- 
singe, ns her name was Georgiana M’rla, from her own mother, Let him deny it 
ihecant... 

“Young man,” said Pumblechook, screwing his head at mein the old fashion, 
you alr a-golng to Joseph, What does It matter to me, you ask me, where you 
air a going? I say to you, air, you air egoing to Joseph. ... Now I will tell 
you wuat to any to Joseph. Says you, ‘ Joseph, Thave this day seen my eure 
Hest benefactor and the founder uf my fortun’s. I will name no names, Joreph; 
but so they are pleased to call him up town: and I have seen that man!” 

“Tewear I don't ae> him here," said I. 

“Say that, Ukewiae," retorted Pumblechook, “Say you sald that; and eren 
Joseph will probably betray surprise”? 

“There you quite m’stake him," sald f “I know better.” 

‘Says you,” Pumblechook went on, “‘ Joseph. I have seen that man; and that 
man bears you n0 malice, and bears me no malice. He knows your charncter, 
*sueph, aad is well acquainted with your plg-hesdedness and ignorance; and he 


— os 

















442 Ebe Wickens Dlctlonary. 









Amows my character, Joseph, and he knows my want of 
Joseph, says you,” — here Pumblechook shook bis head and 
knows my total deficiency of common human gratitoode. Ee! 
ae You do not know it, Joseph, having no eall to know it 
man 
ifr ncie ibs wa aly sane cor ba et ats a , 
talk thus to mine. 

“Saye you, ‘Joseph, he gave me a little perp eee ek 

‘i was, that, in my being brought low, ho saw the ogre Revie 

Juowed that Sager when he aaw it, Joseph; and he saw it plain. Tt 

thie writing, Joseph; Hewand of ingratitoode to hls earliest 

founder of fortun’s. But that man said that he did not repent. 
done, Joseph, Notatall. It was right to do it, it was kind 
benevolent to do It; and he would do it again)” 

(Ch. iv-ix, xiii, xv, xix, xxxv, lviii.) 

Skiffins, Miss, A lady of an uncertain age and a 
Appearance, but “a very good sort of fallow.” anaes 
sesved of “ portable property,” which is eo strong & 
in the eyes of Mr. Wemmick, that he makes her his wife. (Ch. 
xxxvii, Iv.) 
Sophia. A housemaid in Mr. Pocket’s service. (Ch. xxiii.) 
Spider, The. See Davwa«tx, Bexteer. 
Startop, Mr, A lively, bright young man, with a woman’s deli- 
cacy of feature, who is a fellow-boarder with Pip at Mr. Pocket's, 
(Ch. xxili, xxv, xxvi, xxxiy, lii-liv.) 
Trabb, Mr. A prosperous old bachelor, who is a tailor and an un- 
dertaker in the quiet old town where Pip lives during his boyhood. 
(Ch. xix, xxxv.) 
‘He has a shop-boy who is one of the most audacious young fel- 
Jows in all that country-side. When Pip comes into a handsome 
property, and people stare after him, and are excessively polite if 
he happens to speak to them, the only effect upon Trabb’s boy is, 
tomake him more independent and impudent than before. As Pip: 
is returning, on one occasion, to the Blue Boar from Satis House, 
to take the coach back to London, fate throws him in the way sal 
“that unlimited misereant, 

Casting my eyes along the street at a certain point of my progress, 1 beta 
‘Trabb’s boy approaching, Inshing himself with an empty blue bag. Deeming 
that e serene and unconscious contemplation of him would best beseem me, 
fund woud be most Ukely to quell his evil mind, X advanced with that expres: 
slon of countenance, and was rather congratulating myself on my 
‘when mddenly the knees of Trabb's boy smote together; lis hate 
emp fell off; he trembled violently in every limb. staggered out fn the road. Ball 
exylng to the populace, “Hold me! I'm so frightened!” felgned to be In a par 
‘exysm of terror and contrition, occasioned by the dignity of my appearance — 















Gceat Grpectations. 442 


As T passed hilm, Nix teeth loudly chattered In his head; and, with every mark 
‘of extreme humiliation, he prostrated himself In the dust. 

‘This wan a hard thing to bear; but this was nothing. I had not ndranced 
another two hundred yards, when to my Inexpressible terror, amazement, and 
indignation, I again beheld Trabb’s boy approaching. He was coming round « 
narrow corner. His blue bag was slung over his shoulder; honest Indoxtry 
beamed In his eyes; a determination to proceed to Trabb's with cheerful brisk 
‘peas was indicated in his gait. With a shock he became aware of mo, and waa 
severely visited #4 before; but this time his motion was rotatory, and he stag: 
g0red round und round me with knees more affiieted, and with uplifted hands, 
‘as if beseeching for meroy. Ils eufferings were hailed with the greatest Joy by 
‘knot of spectators; and I felt utterly confounded. 

Thad not got as much farther down the street as the post-office. when 
‘agaln beheld Trabb’s boy shooting round by a back-way. This time, be was 
entirely changed. He wore the blue bag in the manner of my great-cout, and 
‘wae strutting along the pavement toward me on the opposite aide of the street, 
attended by a company of delighted young frends, to whom be from time to 
time-exclaimed, with a wave of his hand," Don't know yah!” Words cannot 
state the anount of aggravation and injury wreaked upon me by Trabti's boy, 
‘when, passing abreast of me, he pulled up bis shirt-collar, twined his alde-halr, 
stuck an arm aklmbo, and smirked extravagantly by, wriggling his elbows and 
body, and drawling to his uttendants, “Don’t know yah; don’t know yah ‘pou 
my soul, don't know yah!” ‘The disgrace attendant on bis immediately ufter~ 
ward taking to crowing, and parsning me acroes the bridge with crows na from 
‘an exceedingly dejected fowl who had known me when I was a blaskemith, cul- 
minnted the disgrace with which I left the town, and was, #0 to speak, elected 
by it {nto the open country. (Ch. xxx.) 


‘Waldengarver, Mr. See Worstr, Mr. 

Wemmick, Mr. John. Mr. Jaggers’s confidential clerk. He is 
a dry man, rather short in stature, with a square wooden face, 
whose expression stems to have been imperfectly chipped out with 
a dull-edged chisel. He has glittering eyes, —small, keen, and 
‘Jack, —and thin, white mottled lips, and has had them, apparently, 
‘tom forty to fifty years. His guiding principle, and bis iovariable 
advice to his friends, is, to take care of portable property, and 
never on any account to lose an opportunity of securing it. Although 
his business relations to Mr. Jaggers are of the most intimate nature, 
their acquaintance and fellowship goes no further, and each pre- 
tends to the other that he is made of the sternest and fintiest stuff. 
But notwithstanding their hard exterior and their fear of showing * 
themselves to one another in a weak and unprofessional light, they 
are kindly men at heart, — Wemmick especially, who has a pleas 
ant home at Walworth, where he devotes himself to the comfort of 
bis venerable fether, and refresbes his business life In many pleas 
an‘ and playful ways, the latest and most important of them being 
the transformation: of Mies Skiffins into Mrs. Wemmick. (Ch. xx, 








—_ 





a Fhe Pickens Mectlonaep. 





xxi, xxiv-xxvi, xxxil, xxxvi, xxxvii, xlv, xlvill, I, Iv.) See Seem 
xs, Miss. 


‘Tho district of Walworth . . . appeared to be » collection of back lanes 
itches, and little guniens, and to present the aspect of a mighty dull retire 
mont. Wemmick's house was a little wooden cottage In the midst of plota of 
garden; and the top of {t was cut out wnd painted like a battery mounted with 


guns. 
“My own doing," aald Wemmick. “Looks preity; don't it?” 
Thighly commended it. I think tt was the smallest house I ever saw, with 
the quecrest Gothic windows (by far the greater part of them sham), and a 
Gathlc door, almost too small to got In at. 
“There "6 # real flag-sta, you see," sald Wemmick; “and on Sundays I rom 
up areal fag. ‘Then look here. After I have crossed this bridge, I holst lt up, 
—*0,—and cut off the communication.” 
‘The bridge was a plank; and [t crossed a chaam about fotir fort wide and 
two deep, But it was very pleasant to see the pride with which he holsted it 
‘up, and made it fast; smiling, ws be did so, witha relish, and not merely mechnne | 


“At nine o'clock every night, Greenwich time,” sald Wemmick, “the gum 
fires, There he is, you see; and, when you hear him go, I think you "ll say he’s 
stinger.” 

‘The plece of ordnance referred to was mounted Into a separate fortress 
Lightly constructed of lattice-work. It was protected from the weather by an 
Angenious little tarpaulin contrivance in the nature of am umbrella. 

“ Then, at the back,” said Wemmick, “out of «ight, #0 as not to Impede the 
dea of fortifications — for it's ® principle with me, if you have an ides carry 
it out, and keep it up. Edow’t know whether that ’s your opinion” — 

Taald, “ Decidedly.” | 

“At the back there *s 8 pig, and there aro fowls nod rabbite; then I knock 
together my own little farm, you see, and grow cucumbers; and youl Judge at 
supper what sort of « salad I can raise, So, alr," said Wemmick, smiling 
‘again, bat rather seriously too, “if you can euppose the little piace besieged, it 
woold hold out # devil of a time in point of provisions.” 

‘Then he conducted me to a bower about a dozen yards off, bat which wax 

4 approached by such Ingenious twists of path, that It took quite ® long time to 
got at; and in this retreat our glasses were already set forth, Our punch wax 
‘cooling in an ornamental lake, on whose margin the bower was raised. This 
yilece of water (with an Island in the middle, which might bare beon the salad 
for supper) was of a circular form; and he had constructed a fountain in it, 
which, when you set a little mill golng, and took a cork out of a pipe, played to 
that powerful extent thnt it made the back of your hand quite wet. 

“Tamm my own engineer, aud my own carpenter, and my own plumber, and 
my own gardener, and my own =Jack of all trades,’ said Wemmick in 
acknowledging my compliments. “Well, t's @ good thing, yoo know, It 
brushes the Newgate cobwebs away, and pleases the Aged.” 


‘Wemmick, Mr., senior, called Tun Acrp. Mr, John Wem- 
mick’s father; a very old shan, clean, cheerful. comfortable, and 
well cared for, but intensely deaf. (Ch. xxv, 5 as xly, xiviii, i, 
WW 


i] a 








Great Grpectations 445 


Wemmick, Mrs. See Sxurrixs, Miss, 

Whimple, Mrs. A lodging-house keeper at Mill Pend Bank, 
Chinks’s Basin; an elderly woman of a pleasant and thriving 
appearance, who is the best of housewives. (Ch. xlvi.) 

William, See Porxixs, WittiaM. 

Wopsle, Mr. A friend of Mrs. Joe Gargery's; at first, parish 
clerk, afterwards an actor in London under the stage-name of Mr. 
Waldengarver. 


‘Mr. Wopsle, united to a Roman nose and a large bald forehead, had & deep 
sonorous volce, which he was proud of; indeed, it was understood among hin 
ncquaintanco, that, if you could only give tlm his end, he would read the clergy 
man Into fits. He himself confessed, that if the Church was “thrown open,” 
meaning to competition, he would not despalr of making his mark In It. The 
Church not belug “thrown open,” he was, as I have eald, ourclerk, But he 
finished the amens tremendously; and when he gaye out the psalm, —always 
‘giving us the whole verse, — he looked all round the congregation first, as much 
‘as to say,“ You have heard my fHend overhead: oblige me with your opinion 
‘of this” 

His success as an actor is not particularly brilliant or encoura- 
ging. Pipand Herbert go to the small theatre where he is engaged, 
to witness his impersonation of Hamlet, 

‘Whenever that undecided prince had to ask s queation or state a doubt, 
the public helped him out with it. As, forexample, on the question, whether 
‘was nobler In the mind to suffer, some rosred, Yes; sud some, No; and some, 
inclining to both opinions, sald, “Toss up for ft; and quite a debating society 
arose. When ho asked what should auch fellows as he do crawling between 
earth and heayen, be was encouraged with loud erles of, “ Hear, hear!" When 
Ae appeared with his stocking disordered (ite disorder expressed, according 
to waage, by one very neat fold In the top, which I suppose to be always got op 
‘with a flat-ron), a conversytion took place in the gallery respecting the paloness 
‘of his leg, und whether {t was occasioned by the turn the ghost had given him. 
‘On his taking the recorders,— very like # litte black fute that had just been 
played in the orchestra, und handed outst the door, —he was called upon, unanl- 
mously, for “ Rule Britannia." When he recommended the player not to saw the 
air thus, tho sulky man esld,“‘ And don’t you do it, neither: you're « dead 
‘worse than him!" And I grieve to add, that penls of lnughter greeted Mr, 
‘Wopzle on every one of these occasions, 


(Ch. iv-vii, x, xiii, xv, xviii, xxxi, xlvii.) 
= 











446 She Dickens Wictlonary. 


PRINCIPAL INCIDENTS. 


Cuarren 2, Tip, 1n the chorebyard, ts frshtened by the appearance of a fearful mem 
‘with. great tron on his leg, who mukes him promise to bring him, the next morning, @ 
Ble and some food.— 11. Pip, with some difMculty, conceals tho food Mrs Joe gives him for 
‘upper, and, early tn the morning, robs the pantry, and runs for the marhes.—TiT. Pip 
‘ments sconvict, whois not the one he seeks, and afterwamts finds the right one, whoeagerly 
Seroure his food. TV. Mrs Joe's preparations for Christmas: Pip's sudlerings during the 
Christman dinner for fear bis theft should be discovered; Pip Marts to ran away, and Fane 
Into a party of solfiers at the door, —V. Joemends a pair of handeutfs for the sergeant, snd. 
‘ho party start In aearch of the recaped convicts on the marshes; they find the twe cone 
‘viets struggling together in & ditch, aod Pip's conviet claims tohave taken and giver up 
‘tho other one; Pips convict confesses to having stolen the food taken by Pp from Ire, 
Gangery's pantry.— VI. Eipia fear afconfising taloc, ~ VIL Pip's education is attended 
to, and he Inditera letter 10.300 ; Joo"e delight at finding his name tn print; Joe aaceoustt of 
‘his father's goodness of heart, and of tis marriage to Pip's sister; P{p goes to play at Misa 
Tixhhamn’x—VIIT. Mp breakfasts mt Mr. Pumblechook's, and proceeda to Mine Hiavishsin’s, 
‘where he Is sevelved hy Estelia; singular appearance of Miss Havisham, «nd of every 
‘thing around her; Estelia and Pip play cards for Miss Uavisham’s amusement; Zatella 
‘tonite Pio honio, IX. Pip gives his alster and Pumblechook an acount of Mist Havir 
wham's ond bis visit there, tho falsity of which Uo afterwards acknowledges to Jor. — 
X. Pip som to" The Threo Jolly Barpemen™ to meet Joo, and sce there a stranger, byw 
Algn from whom he knows he has seen bis conviett the stranger gives Pip shilling, 
‘wrapping tin two one-pound notes. —X1. Pip goes again to Miss Havisham’s, and finds 
hor Meads have come ¢ se her on her birthday: Fip meets the pale young man. who 
shallonges him to fight, and, being victorions, hoa pesanlod ta klaa fro Estelle. — XT, 
Pip having grown old enough to be apprenticed to Joo, Miss Havisham sends for Joe, to 
‘whom she gives twenty-five guineas as a premiam with Pip.— XIIL. Jon gives the money 
to his wife, with # message from Miss Havisham, and Pip is “bound out of band" by Mire 
ramblechook.— XIV. Mip desires to go and see Misa Haviaham, and Jos gives tlm and 
Orlick w halfholiday.—XV. Orllok calls Mrs. Gargery names, und ts ‘besten ty Joes 
Tip goes to Miss Havisham’s in the hope of econ Datalla.but le dissapointed; Mire. 
Guryery recelves a severe injury from an unknown hand.- XVL Pip form a theory in 
‘Tegand to thoassallant of his sister, and is eurprived that she does not denounce Orlick, — 
XVIL. Pip makes an anoual visitto Miss Havisham on his birehdsy s P) 2: 

‘who hus become Joe's housekeeper, his dosire to be x gontloman. —: 

reading at “The Threo Jolly Bargemon " the account of a muntor, ts crom-questioned 
hy Mr, Jaguers: Jaggore requests « private conference with Jopand Pp, snd informs thor 
‘hat Mp hae Gaxar Kxrectatios, and must henceforth be bronght up ax a-geatiernan 
‘Yarpere Informs them that tho conditions Imposed are, that Pip aball always bear thas 
‘nae, and Ut he ts nover to ask or seek 9 know thenaine of hla Denefuetor; Jaggers ad 
‘vines Pip what to do, and offers Jos eompermaition for the Toms of p's ‘he re: 
Sasos; Joo tells tho news at home. XIX. Diddy gives Pip her Kea ‘nannerss 
Walts upon Mr, Trabb, and orders his new clothes; Mr. Pumblechook entertains Pip, ane 
tmeracilates him on his good furtune, of which he claims to be the Instruments Pip 
takes u float Joare of Mies Havisham; Mp atarta on his Journey to London. 
Arriving in London, Pip calls on Mr, Jaggors, and witnesses that gentiowan's manne. 
of bullying hiscllents; Wemmick accompanies Mp from JagRers's office to young Mr 
Voeket's, — XXI_ Pips impressions of Bamard’s Inn Pip ts weleomed tis Herbert Poekist, 
In whom he recognizes the pale boy he had fought with st Miss Mavisham's—XXIL 
Herbert Informs Pip of 

Appointments Herbert gives Pip the nme of Handel; Pip learns trom Herbert 
Gistory uf Silat Havisham, (otersperse. with sume binte fur the improvement of 








Great Brpectatlons. aT 


yen mannors: Pip Is tnteoduced to Me. Matthew Pocket nnd his family. —XXI1T. Some 
wccount of Mr. and Mra Pecket, thelr lodpers, and thelr domestic tmiemanagement — 
XXIV. Pip begins to do business with Mr. Jargers, and iexhown that gentleman's office 
‘Arrangements by Mr. Weminick. —XXV. Pip aceompanies Wemnmick homme to Walworth, 
where he ts introduced to the Aged, und spends the night, —XXVI. Pip and bis friends: 
dine with Mr. Juggera; alngular appearance of that peatleman's housekeeper: quarrel be- 
tween Bentley Drammie and Pip, at Mr. Jaggees"s table. —XXVIL Pj 

frum Judd, announclos-a rit frm loa. and AOU Aas Aum #ironi Me Iter 
sham vendfword by Joo that Estelia bas returned, and woul ad to 900 T Ipomm 
XXVIIL Wp pres wn tothe ld towh; Uy alage and Tecogalae, Ts couTet WES Ts Belzg 
earried to the bulks, the man from whom he had reeelved the twv ane-pound notes. — 
XXIX. Pip is surprised to f1nd Orlick ocoupying the place of porter nt Miss Hwlaham'sy 
‘meeting of Yip and ¥atella, and thelr walk topether tn Miss Havisham”s 
wae and the sudden appearance of We Juggets in the Foor, 
— How Trabb's boy mot Iip In the stroet, and attended him from the town; Tip se: 


ner edaas tg Rass his locator Ralalia and Diasienbia of arct minis Bets Herbert re 
tarns the confidence by taforming Pip of his own onghgemont. —XXXI. Mr. Wopale’s ay 
pearance ms Hamlet; Pip recelves a note from Estells informs 

‘vit to London. —XXXII. Ite accompanies Wemmick to Newgate, wid the 

extimation ta which Jaggers ts held {a that tnstitation. — XXXIIL Mp receives Eatella on 

‘hor arrjval, and ¢¢corts har to her dostinatjon at Richmond, — XXXIV. Effect produced i 
upon Pip by his expectations, and the way In which he and Worbert “locked into their ar 
atfaire:"* Pip receives notice of the death of his sister, and goos down to attend the funeral, 


—XXXV. He has a converastion with Iiddy, who understands tim betzer than he under-. es 
stands himeclf,—XXX¥T. Tein SoaPSTONS Pip oe Hl coe p on ils coming of age, and presents: ow ay 
him with five bundred pounds from hls unknown benefactor, but dows not disclose the Sf 
name of the person, —XXXVIL Wemmick makes a distinction between his optntons in tho 

office and at Wasworth; Pip spends Sunday ut Wemmick"s and witnesses bis caro of his 

aped parent, and his attenllons to Min Skifing; Mp, with Wemmick's amslstince, ote 

‘Werbert up In dusiness —XXXVIIE. Pip pay freqnentvisite to Eatolla, ak Dey Brasid 

Joy's, and escorts her | ‘to Misa Havisham’s; some harsh wordsarg exchanged between 

Mies Haviaham and Estella; Drumunle offends Pip tu toasting Katelias Pip rouncnatrades 

with Entells for encouraging Drummmle's atientionn —XXXIX. Mp, eiting alone in bie 

room ot # late hour of the night. ts {nterrupted by a atmunge visitor, 1a whom he rezog- 

nizea hls convict, and from whom ho learns that this man biraself ts the unknown patros 

whose money he has boen spending; he also lotrna the rlak at which the convict hus ro- 

turned to England. 4X. Pip stumbles over a man on his stalrease, and learae from the 

Watchman that his convict was fullowed by another person; satisfaction of Peoria tn 

seeing“ the gontleman ho has made; "" Pp engages rooms for Pravis, whom he representa 

“asia uncle: Pip vertties, by reference to Me. Jaguers, bis knowledge that Provis is tule 
tole benefactor. —XLI. Herbert returns, and, taking the oath demanded by Provis, ls told 
‘tho whole seuret of is connection with Pip; aversion of the young men for Pip's patron 
=XLI, Frovia zclates the story of is lio, and his connection with Compeyson, the other 
‘couviet whe had been retaken with hit oa the marslies; Herbert recogniaes In Compeye 
‘son {he man who professed to be Miss Havisham's lover, —XUIIE. Having decided to g¢ 
Abroud with Provis. Pip goes down to aoe Miss Havlsham and stella before leaving Rng 
land; he enoounters Bentley Drummle at the Blue Boar. —XLIV. Pip calls upon Atte 
Havistam, informe her of hls discovery that she ix not bis patron, as ho had slways «up 
oved, andl begs her to continue to Herbert the assistance he had begun to render; he 
‘teases to Xxtelln his love for her, and learns th: 4x soon to be married to Drummie 
returning t London, Pip a warned by Wernick not t goloms. XLV. Pip pier dew 
to Warwick to consult Wommick, aud earns from him that Provis and himealf had been, 
yatehed, that Conpeyvon is in London, and that, with Herbcet's assistance, Provis had 
‘noon taken to x place of grestor mafety.—XLVI. Pip accompanies Herbert to Mra. Whia: 
Wels, mioeta Clara Barley, and becomes acquainted with the pocullarities of ol@ Itt 
Barley; they arrengo a plan for the esoape of Magwitch by water. —XLVIL. Pip seeks 
Wo divert his mind by polng to the play, and after the performance learns from Wopale that 
‘We ofhes Of the Ewo conv te Of homarshes was in the audience, —XLVILL. Pip receives 


















































ae She Mickhens Mctlonary. 


through Jazeera. mowage from Miss Fisvisham, requesting to see bios - 
Se Pip goes down again to 


coe hud auked for tarbertt he contre his ballet thae Selly ithe mother ut 
Estella; Pip walks round the place before leaving, and, returning to Miss Havishom's 
room, ses her clothes tn flames, and rescues her. — I. Mp earns from Herbert that portion: 
of Provis's history relating to some trouble he hnd had with s womag, and Inows fev 
tho facts that tho convict, Is Tqtella’s father. —Lt. Mp Informs Jagpere of hls discovery 
of Eetoila's parentage Taggers and Wemmick discover something unprofessional tn each 
‘other's charactor. — LIL. Pip receives notice from Wemunick that the attempt to get 
Trovis off may safely be made, and arranges accorlingly: he also recelves & singular 
letter, requesting his presence by night at the ime-kiin on the olf marsbex— LIK. 
‘Obeying this cail, he goes to the place dealgnated, where he Is set upon and bound by old 
Ortick, who fe about to RII him, when he is rescued by Herbert and Startops how Mere 
‘bert came to reicue Pip.—LIV. Pip, Herbert, and Startop take Provia down the stver in 
order to get bim aboard foreign steamor; as they are aboas to secomplish this purpose, 
another boat Jolns them, and they are summoned to surrender Magwiteh ; as the two Boats 
Mio #ido by side, Magwiteh gresps Compesvon, who Is in the oMcor's dost: they are run 
down by the approaching ateamer, Compeyaon drowned, and Magwitch severely injured. 
LY. Herbert loavos London to take abarge of « branch house of his business tn Calro ; 
Wemumick's regrot at the sacrifice of Magwitch's “ portable property; marriage of 
hese and Miss Skisins — LVI, bp and aparietien, ot ag eco! ge cat 



















ENTE Dolirousilineas af Pip, from b 
forms bia of Miss Havishamn's death and tho conditions of hor will; Vip recovers Dis 
serongth, and Joe leaves him. — LVLIL, Pip resolves to retam £0 the forge and to after 
himself to Biddy; Fumblechook puts tn hia claim to bo the founder of Mp's fortune, for 
the last timo; Pip goes to the forgo In search of Hiddy and Joe, and finds them 

Abetrwedaing-tay| Vip Joins Herbert, and romaine abrosd cleven years, at the end of 
which thm 








‘Somebody's Luggage. 





[Postisnep mm “ALL THE YEAR Rouxp,” Dacemmxst, 1802.) 


‘Tux Christmas-tale published under this name contains an amusing description, 
given by a head waiter named Christopher, of the struggles, trinks, and ex+ 
periences of the class to which he belongs, and also an account of his purchns- 
ing a quantity of luggage left more than alx years previously in Room 4B by & 
strange gentleman who had suddenly departed without settling his ill, which 
amounted to £2 10s, 64. Christopher pays Somebody's bill, and takes possession 
‘of Somebody's Inggage, consisting of a black portmanteny, w black bag, © desk, a 
dressing-case, a brown-paper parcel, a hat-box, and an umbrella strapped to a 
walklug-ttick. ‘These articles are in great part Glled with manuscripts. “There 
‘wos writing in hls dressing-case, writing in his boote, writing among his shaving- 
tackle, writing in his hat-box, writing folded away down among the very whale- 
bones of his umbrella.” ‘The writing found in the boots proves to be « very pretty 
story; and it is disposed of, together with the other documents, to the conductor 
of “All the Year Round” (Mr. Dickens), on the most sutlsfuctory terms. ‘The 
story is put in type; and a young man {s vent with “rie rxoors" to Christopher, 
who does not understand that they are intended to receive any corrections be may 
wish to make, but supposes that they are the proof of his haying Mlogally sold 
the writings. In a few days, the strange gentleman suddenly reappears at the 
eoffee-house; and Christopher, overcome with terror and remorse, makes a full 
‘confession of what he has done, lays THe PROOFS " before him, and offers any 
gradual s¢ttlement that may be possible, To his amazement, the unknown grasps 
Uuls hand, presses bit to hils breaat-bone, calls bit “ benefactor” and “phitanthroy 
ist,” forces two ten-pound notes upon him, and explains, that, “from boyhood’s 
aour,” he has “unremittingly and unavailingly endeavored to get Into print.” 
Sitting down with several new pens, and all the inkstands wel! fled, he devotes 
‘himself, the night through. to the task of correcting the press, and is found, the 
‘ext morning, to have smeared himself and the proofs to that degree, that * few 


could have sald whick was them und which was him, and which was blots” 
5° oo 


zz: 





The Dtkens Dictionary. 





CHARACTERS INTRODUCED. 


Bebelle (a playful name for Ganrretie). A hutle orphan-gir, 
‘very pretty and very good; the protégée of Corporal Théophile 
and afterwards adopted by Mr. Langley. 

A.mere baby, one might eall her, dressed tn the close white linen eap which 
small French country-children wear (like the children in Duteh 
nd in a frock of homespun blue, that had no shape, except where it was tied 
round her little fat throat; so that, being naturally short, and round all over, 
‘he looked behind as if she had been cut off st her natural walst, and had had 
‘hor head nently fitted on tt, 


Bouclet, Madame. Mr. Langley’s laudlady; a compact little 
woman of thirty-five, ar so, who lets all ber house overlooking the 
place, in furnished flats, and lives up the yard behind. 

Christopher, Head waiter at a London coffee-house; born as 
‘well as bred to the business. He dedicates his introductory essay 
on “wuitering” to Joseph, “much respected head waiter at the 
Slamjam Coffee-House, London, E.C., than which, a individual more 
eminently deserving of the name of man, or a more amenable 
honor to his own head and heart, whether considered in the light af 
‘a waiter, or regarded as a human being, do not exist.” 

Englishman, Mr., The. See Lanaiey, Mr. 

Gabrielle. See Brsecrr. 

Langley, Mr., called Mz. Tae Enoutsuman. A lodger at 
Madame Bouclet’s, in the Grande Place of a dull old fortified 
French town, 


In taking his appartement, — or, as one might say on our side of the channel, 
his vet of chambers, — (he} liad given his name, correct to the letter, LANGLET. 
But as he had a British way of not opening his mouth very wide on forelgm 
‘coll, except at meals, the Brewery (Madame Bouclet and her family) had been 
able to make nothing of {t but L’Anglals, So Mr. the Englishman he ‘ad bee 
come, and he remained. 








He isa very unreasonable man, given to grumbling, moody, and 
pomewhat vindictive. Having had a quarrel with his erring and 
disobedient daughter, he has disowned her, ana gone abroad to be 
rid of her for the rest of his life. But becoming acquainted with 
Co-poral Théophile and his orphan charge Bebelle, and wit 


Somedoup's Duggage. 451 


their strong affection for each other, and the deep grief of the child 
at the death of her friend, his heart is penetrated and softened. He 
adopts the forlorn little one as a trust providentially committed to 
him, and goes back with her to England, determined on a reconcili- 
ation with bis daughter. 

Martin, Miss, A young lady at the bar of the coffee-house where 
Christopher is head waiter, who makes out the bills. 

Mutuel, Monsieur. A friend of Madame Bouclet’s; a French- 
man with an amiable old walnut-shell countenance. 

A rpeotacled, annify, stooping old gentleman in carpot-sthoes, and a cloth-cap 
‘with peaked shade, « 1oo8e blue frock-eont reaching to his heels, a large limp. 
white shirt-frill, and cravat to correspond: that 18 to any, white was the 
‘natural color of his linen on Sundays; but it toned down with the week. 

Pratchett, Mrs. Head chambermaid at the coffee-house where 
Christopher is head waiter; “a female of some pertnoss, though 
acquainted with her business.” Her husband is in Australia; and 
his address there is “The Bush.” 

Théophile, Corporal, A brave French soldier, beloved by all 
his comrades; friend and protector of little Bebelle. 

‘Tho corporal, » emart figure of a man of thirty, perhaps a thought under 
the middie size, but very neatly made,—n sunburnt corporal with a browa 
peaked beard,... . Nothing was amise or awry about the corporal. A Uthe 
and nimble corporal, quite complete, from the sparkling dark eyes under hia 
knowing uniform cap to his «parkling white gniters. ‘The very image and yre- 
scutment of a corporal of his country’s army, in the line of his shoulders, the 
Une of his waist, the broadest line of his sSloomer trousers, and thelr narrowest 
Une at the calf of his leg. 








Mirs. Lirriper’s Lodgings. 


(Poucisep ox “Aut rie Year Rouwn,” ne Deokscsen, 1863.) 


‘Tit Christmastale parports to bo the reminiscences of = Mrs. Lireipor, « 
lodging-house keopsr of No. 51, Norfolk Street, Strand. Iteets forth the etream- 
stances under which she went into the business, and the manner ta which sive haw 
carried it on for eight and thirty years, including her trials with servantgtrls, and 
her troubles with an opposition establishment ‘The chief interest of the story, 
however, contres around the child of Mrs, Kdson, « delicate young woman, whe 
Jn cruelly deserted by her husband within a few weeks after thelr marriage. She 
dies, heart-broken, in giving birth to a little boy, who is adopted by Mrs, Lirriper, 
‘aod who le brought up under the joint guardianship of hereelf, and her friend 
and lodger, Major Jemmy Jackman, 


OHARAOTERS INTRODUCED. 


Bobbo. Friend and school-fllow of the hero of am extravagant 
story that Jemmy Lirriper tells his grandmother and godfather. 

Edson, Mr. A gentleman from the country, who takes lodgings 
for himself and wife at Mrs. Lirriper’s, and, after staying there for 
three months, cruelly deserts her under pretence of being suddenly 
called by business to the Isle of Man, See further in “ Mra. Lirri- 
por's Legacy.” 

Edson, Mrs. Peggy. His wife; a very pretty and delicate young 
lady. When she discovers that her husband has abamdoned her 
she attempts to end her own life and that of her unborn infant by 
throwing herself into the Thames; but she is prevented by Mrs 

42 





Mes. Direlper's Zongings. 453 


Lirriper and Major Jackman, who watch and follow her, but con 
ceal their knowledge of her intention. Desolate and heart-broxen, 
however, she dies, not long afterwards, in giving birth to a little 
boy, who is adopted and brought up by Mrs. Lirriper. 

Jackman, Major Jemmy. A gentleman who leaves Miss Wo- 
zenbam’s lodging-house in a rage, because “ she has no apprecia- 
tion of a gentleman,” and takes the parlors at Mrs. Lirriper’s. He 
becomes warm friend of his new landlady, who reciprocates his 
regard. She describes him as, — 


A most obliging lodger and punctual ia all respects excopt one irregular 
which I need not particularly specify, but made up for by his being a protection 
‘and at all times ready to fill In the papers of the assessed taxes and juries aod 
that, and . .. ever quite the gentleman though passionate. ... Though he Is far 
from tall ho seers almost a0 when he has his ehirt-frlll out and his frock-coat om 
snd his bat with the curly brims, and in what service he was I eaninot truly tell 
yon my dear whether militia or foreign, for I never heard him even name 
himself ax major but always simple “Jemmy Jackman” and once soon after 
he came when I felt it my duty to lot him know that Mise Wozeuham had put 
{t about that he was no major and I took the liberty of adding“ which you are 
sir” bis words were “ Madam at any rate Iam not a minor, and sufficient for 
the day is the evil thereof ” which cannot be denied to be the sacred truth, nor 
yet hia military ways of having bis boots with only the dirt brushed off taken 
to him in the front parlor every morning on a clean plate and varnishing them 
‘himself with a little sponge and a saucer and a whistle in a whisper so sure ax 
ever bin breakfast Is ended, and so neat his ways that it never olla his linen 
which is scrupulous though more in quality than quantity, neither that nor his 
mustachios which to the best of my belief are done at the same time and 
which are as black and shining a¢ bis boots, his head of halr being a lovely 
white. 


‘The major becomes the godfather af Mrs. Edson’s little boy, who 
is named for him; and he takes it upon himself to cultivate his 
mind on a system of his own, which Mrs. Lirriper thinks “ought 
to be known to the throne and lords and commons.” 








But ploture my admiration when the major golng on almost as quick as If 
‘we was conjuring sets out all the articles he names, and says, “Throw suuce- 
pans, an Italian fron, a hand-bell, a toastingfork, a nutmeg.grater, four povlids, 
'8 sploo-box, two egg-cups, and # chopping-board.—how many?” and whea 
that mite instantly cries * Tifteen, tat down tive and carry ler 'toppin-bourd,” 
‘and then claps his hands draws up his legs and dances on his ehair! 

‘My den with tho same astonishing ease and correctness him and the major 
added up the tables chairs and sofy, the plcters fender and fire-trone thelr 
‘own selves mo and the cat and the eyes In Miss Wozenbam’s head, and whea~ 
ever the sum was done Young Roses and Diamonds claps his hands and deaws 
‘up his legs and dances on bls chatr, 

‘The pride of the major! (“Here's a mind, ma'am!” ho says to mo bebind 
‘his hand.) 








it The Dickens Mietionacy. 


‘Then he says aloud, “ We now come to the next elementary rule, ~wilel te 


small picklo-jar, two lemons, one pepper-caitor, & binckbectle-trap, and ® Taos 
of tho dresser-drawor: what romaine?” 
‘Toatin’fork!” ories Jemmy, 

“In uombers how many ?” aays the major. 

“Que!” cries Jommy. 

(** Here's a boy, ma'am!" anys tho major to me, behind tile band.) 

‘Then the major goes on: — 

“We now approach the next elementary rule, which ts entitied *— 

“‘Tiokleloation,” orles Jerusmy. 

“ Correct," says the major. 

But iny dear to relate to you fu detall the way ia which they snultiplied four 
toon aticks of firewood by two bite of ginger and a larding-needie, or divided 
pretty well every thing else there was ou the table by the heater of the Italian 
Iron and a chamber candicstick, and got a lemon over, would make my head 
‘pla round and round wod round as it did at the time, 


Jane, A housemaid in Miss Wozenham's service. 

Lirriper, Jemmy Jackman. The eon of Mrs. Edson, who 
dies in giving birth to him. He is named for Mrs. Lirriper, who 
adopts him, and for Major Jackman, who becomes his 
He grows up to be a bright, blithe, and good boy, delighting the 
hearts of both his guardians, who agree that he “has not bis like 
on the free of the earth.” See Epson, Mrs. Peco. 

Lirriper, Mrs. Emma. The narrator of the story; a lodging~ 
house kooper at No, 81, Norfolk Street, Strand, “situated midway 
betweon the city and St. James's, and withia five minutes’ walk of 
the principal places of public amusement.” 

Certainly ! ought to know something of the basiness Raving been i at 40 
Jong, for It was eazy tn Ube sooond year of my married fife that I hort may poor 
Lzriper aud I sot up at Islington directly afterwards aud afterwards came here, 
Deing two houses and eight and thirty years aed some losses aad « deal of 
experience, 

See introductory remarks, p. 452; also Ensox (fas. Pesos), 
Jackman (Mazon Jmwxy), Limeirer (Jemuy Jaccmax), and 
the noxt story, “Mra. Lirriper’s Legacy." 

Maxey, Caroline. Ono of Mrs Lirriper’s servantgirls; a good 
looking, black-eyed girl, with a high temper, but a kind and gratefis 
heart. 


Perkinsop, Mary Aune, A girl in Mrs. Lirriper’s services, whe 


b 





Mes. Aieclpec'’s Dovgings. 455 


Is enticed away by an offer from Miss Wozenham of one pound 
per quarter more in the way of wages. Mrs. Lirriper regards her 
as “worth her weight in gold” for overawing lodgers, without drive 
ing them away. 

Beraphina. The heroine of an extravagantiy fanciful story related 
‘by Master Jemmy Jackman Lirriper to his “ grandmother” and his 
godfather. She was a schoolmaster’s daughter, and the moss 
beautiful creature that ever was secn. 

Bophy, called Wittsxc Soruy. A poor, half-starved creature, 
whom Mrs. Lirriper takes into her house as a servant, and who is 
“down upon her knees, scrubbing, early and late, and ever cheerful, 
but always smiling witha black face.” 

I saya to Sophy, “Now Sophy my good girl have ® regular day for your 
Moves and keep tho width of the airy between yourself and the blacking aud 
do not brush your halr with the bottoms of the saucepans and do not meddle 
with the snuffs of the eandles and {t stands to reason that it ean no longer be” 
yet there if was wnd always on her nose, which turning up and being broad st 
the end seemed to boast of It and cansed warning from a steady gentleman and 
‘excellent Jodger with breakfast by the week but a little Irritable and ure of a 
sitting-room when required, his words belng “ Mrs, Lirrlper T have arrived at 
the polnt of admitting that the Black is a man anda brother, but onlyin # natar 
ral form and when tt can't be got off." 

Wozenham, Miss. A lodging-house keeper in Norfolk Street, 
not far from Mrs. Lirriper’s, but on the other side of the way. 
There is considerable rivalry between the two establishments ; and 
‘Mrs. Lirriper conceives a strong dislike to Miss Wozenham, on 
account of her advertising in Bradshaw’s “ Railway Guide,” her 
systematic underbidding for lodgers, her enticing servant-girla 
away by the offer of higher wages, and her doing various other ill- 
aatured and unfriendly acts. See “Mrs. Lirriper’s Legacy.” 












(Pumutamep os Ant rie YRan Rounn,” Dromencn, 1964.) = 
‘Tis fe a sequel to“ Mrs. Lirriper’s Lodgings ”* (published In 1863), which 
‘with a very warm reception from the publle, and excited a general desire to know 

‘more of the old Indy's experiences. ‘The legnoy is left to Mrs. Lirriper by the 
‘Fason who fx fntroduced in the former part of the story ax deserting hia young 
wife shortly after marrying her, and who dies, repentant, many years wftery hs 
‘France, whither she goes to take care of him in his last moments, y 
is son Jemmy (whom he has never scen), aud by her frlend and adviser, Major 
Jackman. ‘The benevolent conduct of this good soul to her; 
brotherin-law, Doctor Joshua Lirriper; to the obnoxious collector of 
taxes, Mr. Buille, on the night when his house Is burnt down; snd to Miss We 
ham, whon that lady was in danger of having her chattels taken from her 
sation, —forms the subject of the remalnder of the story. 


OHARAOTERS INTRODUCED. 


Buffie, Mr. Collector of the assessed taxes, His manners when 
engaged in his business are not agreeable; and he has a habit 
looking about, as if suspicious that goods are being rempved in 
dead of night by a backdoor. Major Jackman kuocks bis hat 
his head twice for keeping it on in Mrs. Lirriper’s presence, bee! 
he calls at hor house in the discharge of his regular daties. Bi 
when his house catches fire, and burns to the ground, he and hie 
family are taken by the major to Mrs. Lirriper's for shelter 5 
frow this kindness an intimacy springs up between the two ho 
a 





Mes, Declpec's Degacy, 457 


holds, which is very agreeable to all partics, Mr. Buffle 2ven going 
so far as to call the major his “ preserver” and “ best friend.” 

Buffle, Mrs. His wife; a woman who gives herself airs because 
her husband keeps “ a one-horse pheayton.” 

Buffle, Miss Robina. Their daughter; a thin young lady with a 
very small appetite, She favors her father’s articled young man, 
George, in opposition to the wishes of her parents; though they 
finally give their consent to the match. 

Bdson, Mr, A former lodger at Mrs. Lirriper's, and the husband 
‘of a young woman whom he cruelly deserted after living with her 
for afew months, Years pass by; and ho is taken dangerously ill at 
a town in France, Finding that bis recovery is impossible, he 
Jeaves all that he bas to Mrs. Lirriper, who had been very kind to 
his poor wife, and who has brought up their child as if it were her 
own. On learning from the French consul in London that an un- 
known Englishman is lying at the point of death in Sens, and that 
her name is mentioned in a communication to the authorities, which 
is found among his papers, she sets out at once for that place with 
her adopted child and her friend Major Jackman. Recognizing 
Mr, Edson in the sick stranger, and finding him truly penitent for 
the grievous wrong he had done, she forgives him, and causes the 
boy—who docs not know who the dying man is—also to say, 
“May God forgive you!" 

George, A rather weak-headed young man, articled to Mr. Bufile, 
and enamoured of his daughter, 

Gran, Mrs, (ie, Mus. Linmiven). A highly respected and be 
loved lady who resides within a hundred miles of Norfolk Street 
and who figures in Jemmy Lirriper’s imaginary version of the 
story of Mr. Edson’s life. 

Jackman, Major Jemmy. A lodger at Mrs. Lirriper’s; her 
warm personal friend, and the godfather of her adopted child 
Jemmy. See Linmren (Jeaay JACKMAN) and “Mra, Lirriper’s 
Lodgings.” 

Lirriper, Doctor Joshua, Youngest brother of Mrs. Lirriper’s 
jeveased husband. He is a d:ssipated ecapegrace, and a systematic 
-ponger upon his benevolent and ansuspecting sister-in-law. 


Doctor of want I am sure it would be hard to eay unless liquor, fo: neither 
physlonor music nor yet law does Joshua Lirriper know « morsel of exoept eon 
tinunlly being aummonod to the county court and having orderé made upon hina 
frhieh he rune away from. 








Os Ede Wickens Wictl 





ih? 


Josbun Lirriper bas his good feelings snd shows them in being always se 
troubled In his mind when he cannot wear mourning for his brother. Many = 
long year have I left off my widow’s mourning not being wishful to intrude, 
the tender point fn Joshua that I cannot help a little yielding to bs when 
‘writes “ One single sovereign would enable meto wear a decent suit of mours 
fing for my much loved brother. E vowed at the time of his lamented death: 
‘that I would ¢ er wear sables in memory of him but alse how shortsighted fe 
‘mao, how keep that vow when penniless! It says good deal for the 
strength of bis feclings that he could n't have been seven year old when my 
poor Lirrlper died and to have kept to It ever since is highly creditable, But we 
know there ’s good in all of us,—if we only know where itwas in some of us, — 
and though it was fur from delicate In Joslua to work upou tho dear child's 
feelings when first sent to school and write down into Lincolnshire for his 

, Pocket-money by return of post and got it, still he is my poor Lirriper’s own 
Youngest brother and might n’t have meant not paying his bill at the Sallabary 
Arms whea bis affection took him down to stay a fortnight at Hatield charets 
yard-and might have meant to keep sober bat for bad company. 


Lirriper, Mrs. See introductory remarks (p. 456), Epson (Mr.), 
Wozenwam (Mts), and “ Mrs. Licriper’s Lodgings.” 

Lirriper, Jemmy Jackman. Son of Mr. Edson, adopted by 
‘Mrs. Lirriper, and brought up under the joint guardianship of her- 
self and Major Jackman, who is at once his godfather and his 
“companion, guide, philosopher, and friend." As he develops a 
taste for engineering, the major assists him in the construction and. 
management of a railway, which they name The United Grand 
Junction Lirriper and Juckman Great Norfolk Parlor Line,” which 
is kept on the major's sideboard, and dusted with his own hands 
every morning, 

“ For” says my Jemmy with the sparkling eyes when it was christened, “we 
‘must hare whole mouthful of name Gran or our dear old pablie™and there 
the young rogue kissed me, “won't stump up.” So the public (Mrs. Lirriper) 
took the shares — ten at alnepence, and Immediately when that was speotiwelve 
preference at one and sixpence—and they were all signed by Jemmy and 
countersigned by the major, and between ourselves much better worth the 
money than some shares I have paid for in my time. In the same holidays tise 
Hine was made aod worked and opened and ran excursions and had colilslons 
and burst its bollers and all sorts of accidents and offences all most regular cor 
rect and pretty. 

‘Tho young gentleman accompanies Mrs. Lirriper to Sens, and is 
present at the death of Mr. Edson; though he does not know him 
to be his futher, and is ignorant of the facts in regard to his eruel 
desertion of his wife soon after marriage. Being in the habit of 
composing and relating stories for the amusement of his “ grand- 
mother” and godfather, and his mind dwelling on the death-bed 
scone he has witnessed, he frames an imaginary version of his 
fathor's history, which is wofully unlike the fact, and in which, 














Fics. Dleriper's Begacy 459 


to all revorsos, whether for good or evil, the words of Mr. Edson to the falt 
young partnor of his life were,“ Unchanging love and truth will carry ua 
througt all” 


Madgers, Winifred. A servant-girl at Mra. Lirriper’s; a “Plym- 
outh sister,” and a remarkably,tidy young woman. 


Rairyganoo, Sally. Onc of Mrs. Lirriper’s domestics, suspectot. 
to be of Irish extraction, though professing to come of a Cambridge 
family. She absconds, however, with a bricklayer of the Limer'ek 
persuasion, and is married to him in pattens, being too impatient to 
wait till his black eye gets well. 

‘Wozenham, Miss. A neighbor of Mrs. Lirriper’s in Norfolk 
Street, and the keeper of a rival lodging-house. For many years, 
‘Mrs. Lirriper kas been strongly prejudiced against Miss Wozenham; 
but on hearing that she has been “sold up,” she feels so much sym~ 
pathy for her, that she goes to her without delay or ceremony, ex~ 
presses her regret for the unpleasantness there has been between 
them in the past, and cheers her up with truc womanly tact and 
kindliness, 

T says “My dear if you could give me a cup of tea to clear my muddic of « 
hoad I should better understand your affuire.” And we had the tea and the 
affairs too and after ull {t was but forty pound, and— ‘There! she" as indus 
trious and straight a erecter as ower lived and has paid back half of it atready, 
and where '* the use of saying more, particularly when it ain't the point? For 
the point 1s that when she waa akissing my hands and holding them tn hers 
and kissing them again and blesting blessing blessing, T cheered up at last and 
Taays © Why what a waddling old goose I have been my dear fo take you for 
fomething so very difforent!" ‘Ah but I too” says ahe “how have J mls 

me for goodness’ sake tell mo” I says" what you thought 

# she “I thought you had no feeling for such a hard 

hand-to-mouth iife as mine, and were rolling in allloence.” anys shaking my 

sides (and very glad to do it for I hnd been a-choking quite long enough) * Only 

Jook at my figure my dear and give me your opinion whother if I was fu aftuence 

I should be likely to roll int!” That did it, We, got ss merry as grigs (whnt- 

‘ever they aro, If you happen to know, my dear—T don’t) and I went home te 

my blessed bore as happy and as thankful as could be, 








Our Mutual Friend — 





‘Lixz most of its predecessors, this novel made its Srst appearance In twenty 
‘monthly parts, The first part was tasued May 1, 1804, and the Inst In November, 
1869, ‘Tho LMlustrations were on wood from drawings by Marcus Stone, Om its 
completion, the work was published in two octavo volumes, by Chapman and 
Hall, with w dedication to the late Sir James Imerson Tennent, 

‘The story, though not very popular with most readers, and thougl its plot ix 
marred by some improbabillities, 1s considered by the erities to be a very Enge 
niously-planned and well-executed work. Tho title 1s unfortunately chosen, and 
has given a wide currency to the low vulgaris which calls a common friend « 
“mutual " friend. 


CHARACTERS INTRODUCED. 


Akershem, Miss Sophronia. An acquaintance of the Veneer 
ings; a fast young lady of society, with raven locks, and a com- 
plexion that lights up well when well powdered. She marries Mr 
Alfred Lammle. (Bk. I, ch. li, x, xi; Bk. Ul, ch. iv, v, xvi; Bk, TH 
ch. v, xti, xiv, xvil; Bk. IV, ch. ti, vill.) See Lamune, ALPRED. 

Blight, Young. A dismal boy, who is Mr. Mortimer Lightwood's. 
clerk and office-boy. (Bk. I, ch. viii; Bk. II, ch. xvii; Bk. IV 
ch. ix, xvi) 

Boffin, Mrs. Henrietta. Wife of Mr. Boflin; a.stout lady of a 
rubieund and cheerful aspect, deseribed by her husband as “a 
high-flyer at fashion.” (Bk. I, ch. v, ix, xv-xvii; Bk. II, ch. villi 
*, xiv; Bk. IT, ch. iv, vy, xv; Bk; IV, ch, ii, xii-xiv, xvi.) 

400 








} 
+ 










| Our Mutual Priend, 461 


Boffin, Nicodemus, called Noppy, also Tux Gotoen Dostaran. 
A confidential servant of the elder Mr. Harmon, who at death 
leaves him all his property, in case his son refuses to marry a cers 
tain young lady namwed in his will. This son has quarrelled with 
Jus father, and parted from him, and, at the time of Mr. Harmon's 
death, 1s a resident.of Cape Colony. Ho returns to England on 
hearing of that event, but disappears immediately on his arrival ; 
and a body, supposed to be his, is subsequently found floating 
in the Thames in an advanced stage of decomposition, and much 
injured. Mr. Boflin, therefore, as residuary legatee, comes into 
possession of the whole property, amounting to upwards of one hun- 
dred thousand pounds standing in the books of the Bank of Eng- 
land. As sole executor under the will, he has occasion’ to visit 
‘Mortimer Lightwood, Esquire, and, in the course of conversation, 
he gives the following account of his late master and of his master's 
ton: — 


«The old man was a awful Tartar (saying it, 7m sure, without disrespect to 
his memory); but the business was m:plessant one to look after, from before day- 
light to past dark. It" a’most a pity,” said Mr. Boffin, rubbing his ear, “ that 
he ever went and made so much money. It would have been better for him if 
ho had n't #0 given himeclfup to tt, You may depend upon it" making the 
discovery all of a sudden, " that he found it a great lot to take care oft” 

Mr. Lightwood coughed, not convinced. 

“And speaking of satisfactory," pursued Mr. Boffin, “why, Lord «ave ust 
‘when we come to take it to pieces, bit by bit, where ’s the satisfuctorinoss of 
the money as yet? When the old man does right the poor boy afier all, the 
‘poor boy guts no good of It, He gets made away with at the moment when he 
¥s lifting (as one may say) the cup and earver to his lips, Mr, Lightwood, I will 
‘now name to you, that, on behalf of the poor dear boy, me and Sirs, Boflin bave 
stood out agalnst the old man times out of number, till he has called us every 
mame he could lay his tongue to, Dhnve eeen him, efter Mrs. Boffin has given 
him her mind respecting the claims of the uat/ral uffections, entch olf Mev. Bot 

é fin’s bonnet (she wore, In general, @ black atraw, perched, at a matter of con- 
‘venience, on the top of her head), snd send-it spinning across theyard. L have 
indeed. And once, when he did this {n a manner that amounted to personal, I 
should have given him a rattler for himself, if Mrs. Boflln had n't thrown ber- 
welf betwixt us, and recalred fuah on the témple, Which dropped her, Mr. 
Alghtwood, — dropped her” 

Mr. Lightwood murmared, "Equal honor, — Mes. Boffin's head and heart” 

“You understand I name this,” pursued Mr. Itoflin, “to show you, now the 
affairs are wound up, that me and Mrs. Boffin have ever stood, as we were in 
‘Christian honor bound, . . . the poor boy"s frlend; me and Mrs. Bodin up aud 
faced the old man when we momently expected to be turned out for our pains. 
As to Mrs, olin,” said Mr. Hotlin, lowering hls volo, "she might n° wish it 
mentioned now she's fashionable; but she went so far as to tell him, If my 
‘presence, bower # filnty-hearted rascal. .. Woll, lr, 80 Mrs. Boffin and 


Your young man up at this present chopping wi 
dow-sill with his penknife, and I give him a*Hoy!? uot thea having the pleas 
lure of your moquaintance, and by that means come to gwin the honor. 

You, and the gentleman in the uncomfortable neckeloth under the little arch 
‘way in Salut Paul's Charehyard” — 

© Doctors! Commons,” observed Lightwood. 

“1 understood it was another name,” said Mr. Botta, pausing: “but you 
know best. ‘Then you and Doctor Scommons, you go to work, and you do the 
thing that 's proper; and you and Doctor 8, take ateps for finding out the poor 
boy: and mt Inst you do find out the poor boy, and me and Mre. Bofln often ex- 
ehango the observation, «We shall see him again under happy circumstances? 
Hut It wns never to bes and the want af satisfactoriness ts, that, afer ally te 
‘money never gots to him,” 





‘Mr. Boffin closes his interview with Mr. Lightwood by authorizing 
him to offer a reward of ten thousand pounds for the arrest of the 
murderer of John Harmon, the younger. John Harmon, however, is 
not dead; though he has but barely escaped being murdered 
Learning of tho condition in lis father’s will under which: be lites 
inherit, it occurs to him to take advantage of the false report of his 
death to make the acquaintance of the young lady (Miss Bella Wile 
for), and, if he likes her, to try to win her without disclosing himself, 
‘He accordingly assumes the name of John Rokesmith, and hires a 
room at her father’s house, which gives him an opportunity of thus 
secing and speaking to her. He also succeeds in making an engage- 
‘ment to act as secretary and man of business to Mr, Boffin, who shortly 
afterward adopts Miss Wilfer, who is thus brought daily into contact 
with Mr, Rokesmith, She treats him with great disdain; but he 
comes, in time, to love her devotedly. At last his features, which 
have long attracted and puzzled Mrs. Boflin, betray him; and he is 
forced to acknowledge the trath about himself. The discovery is 
kept a profound secret from Miss Wilfer, however; and Mr, Boflin 
comes to Harmon's assistance, and endeavors to win her love for hina 
by first exciting her sympathy. He therefore pretends to become 
very miserly, and grows so anxious about the management of his 
estate, that he shamefully abuses his factotum for not taking better 
eave of it. Tn the ead, this strategy proves successful, and Bella mar 
ries the poor secretary, who still retains the name of 
Meanwhile, Mr. Boffin has discovered, secreted in an old 








Our Mutual Pelend 463 


bottle, a later will than the one he has proved, and under which he 
has entered upon possession of the estate. By this document, every 
thing is given to him absolutely, excluding and reviling the son by 
name. But, with rare disinterestedness and munificence, Mr. Boffin 
transfers the entire property to the rightful heir, reserving for hinw 
self only the house occupied by his late master, which is powu 
larly called “Harmon's Jail," on account of his solitary manner ef 
life, or “ Harmony Jail,” on account of his never agreeing with 
anybody ; but which Mrs. Boflin renames “Boffin's Bower.” ~ 

With respect to his personal appearance, Mr. Boffin is described 
— 

A broad, round-shouldered, one-sided old fellow . . . dresod in ® pea over- 
cont, and carrying large stick. He wore thick shoes, and thick leather gaiters, 
‘and thick gloves like a hedger's. Both as to his dress and to himself, he was of 
an overlapping, rhinoceros build, with folds in hia cheeks, and hie forehead, 
and bis eyelids, and his lips, and his ears, but with bright, eager, childishiy. 
inguiring gray eyes under his ragged eyebrows and broad-brimmed hat. A 
‘very odd-looking old fellow altogether, 

‘Theso two igoorant and anpollshed people [Mr. and Mrs. Rofin] had guided 
‘Themselves . . . a0 far in thelr journey of life by « religious sense of duty and 
desire to do right. Ten thousand weaknesses and absurdities might have 
been detected in the breasts of both; ten thousand vanities additional, possl- 
hly,{n the breast of the woman, ut the hard, wrathful, and sordid nature that 
ad wrung ax much work out of them as could be got in thelr best days for as 
Hittle money as could be pald to hurry on thelr worst bad never been s0 warped 
but that it know their moral stralghtnoss, and respeoted It. In its own despite, 
ina constant conflict with itself and them, it had done so. And this is the 
eternal law. For evil often stops short at itself, and dies with the doer of Its 
but good never. 

(Bk. I, ch. v, viii, ix, xv-xvii; Bk. Il, ch. vii, viii, x, xiv; Bk. 
I, ch. iv-vii, xiv, xv; Bk. IV, ch. ii, ili, xii-xiv, xvi.) See Han- 
mon (Jon), Weoo (Sinas). 

Boots, Mr. } Fashionable toadies; friends of the Veneerings, 

Brewer, Mr.) (Bk. I, ch. fi, x; Bk. TI, ch. iii, xvi; Bk. IMT, ch. 
xvii; Bk. IV, ch. xvi.) 

Cherub, The. See Wiirer, Reotnacp. 

Cleaver, Fanny, called Juxxx Wnrex. A doll's dressmaker. 
Lizzie Hexam, after her father’s death, has temporary lodgings 
with her ; and one day her brother calls to see her. 

‘The boy knocked at a door; and tho door promptly opened with # spring and 
click. A parlor-door within a small entry stood open, and disclosed « child, 


a dwarf, a gir), a tomething, sitting on a little low old-fashioned arm-sinln 
‘which had a kind of Little working-bench before it. 


_- 86 


“ Zoe Bictess Stctizszre 


Lat om a a Ge Oe <tc oy bee ek eet 
or en ee pee eee 


=f wasnt oe ow cer cme ™ 
“Tey pang oes tere Geen” eecoet Ge Gk ~ Cove 
mom 
‘The geen Bate igre end Gee goes bet = opty Ee See wee ee 
OX rm wert rp Set Se eee of Se Se ot 
ee E Letng tarsed out of Gat muni, mnet be cher 
= Hirsem be my mame” 
~ AS, inden” aad the perce af the hemee ~ 5 Goenght might be. 


Headstone. 

~ Me, bet What ebse Gol make? You 're s schoolmaster; bet you can't 
or 

You do something.” be retersed, pointing to = corner of the Itile 
“with straw; but I don't keow what.” 

© Well dome you!” erled the person of the house. “I ouly make 
tot peuwigers to ure ap my waste. Bat ay atraw really does belong to my 
eon. Try agale. What do I make wt my straw?” 

= Dinner-mate 

© A schoolmaster, and says dinaeranate! Ill give you melew to my trade 
goune of forfeits. love my lore with a B because abe beautiful; Thate my 
vith » B deca Drazen; I took her to the sign of the Bine Moar, 
tweated ber with bonnets; ber came "s Bouncer, and ahe lives in Bedlam. 
what Go fmake with my straw?” 

* Ladle’ bouseu?” 


Jell's dressmaker.’ 
“1 bope it" ® good business?” 
‘The person of the house shregged her shoulders and shook her bead, 1: 





Our Mutual Prlend. 465 


Poorly pald. And I'm often 20 pressed for time! I had m doll married last week, 
and was obliged to work all night. And It ’« not good for me, on account of my 
‘buck being 60 bad, and my Lega so queer." 

‘They looked at the little creature with a wonder that did not diminish; and the 

schoolmaster raid, “I am sorry your fine Indies are so inconsiderate” 
It % the way with them,” «ald the person of the house, ahrugging her shoulders 
again, “And they take no care of thelr clothes; and they never keep to the same 
fashivos a month. I work for a doll with three daughters. Bless you, she" 
‘enough to muta her husband!” 

‘The person of the house gave a weird little laugh here, and gave them another 
Jook out of the corners of her eyes. She had an elfin chin that was capable of great 
‘expression; and, whenever she gaye this look, she bitched this chin up, as 4f her 
‘eyes and her chin worked together on the same wires, 

“ Are you always as busy as you are now 

“Busler. Em slack Jast now. I finished & large mourning order the day before 
yesterday, Doll I work for lost s canary-bird." The person of the house gave 
another Uttle laugh, and then nodded her head several times,as who should 
moralize, “Ob, this world, this world!” 

Aro you alone all day?" saked Bradley Headstone. “Don't any of the nelgh- 
boring children?” — 

“Al, lud!” eried the person of the house with a little scream, as if the word 
hind pricked her. © Don’t talk of children. Loan't dear children. Z know their 
tricks and thefr manners." She said this with an angry little shake of her right 
“iat clone before her eves. 

Verhaps it seareely required the teacher-habit to perceive that the doll's dress- 
aauker was Inclined to be bitter on the difference between herself and other 
children; but both master and pupll understood it 40. 

“Always running about and screeching, always playing and fighting, always 
skipskip-skipping on the pavement, and chalking It for their games. Ob! Fknow 
thelr tricks and their manners!” Shaking the little fistas before. “And that's 
not all, Kverso often calling names in through a person’s keyhole, and Imitating a 
person's back and legs. Oh! Zknow their tricks and thelr manners; and Ill tell you 
what 1° do te punish "em. ‘There's doors under the church in the square, — biack 
vors, leading Into black vaults. Well, I'd open one of thase doors, and IM eram 
‘vin all in, and then IM lock the door, and through the keyhole 174 blow fn pep- 
per” 

+ What would be the good of blowing in pepper ?” asked Charley Hexam. 

“To vot ‘em sneezing," sald the person of the house, “and make thelr eyes 
‘water; sad, when they were all tneezing and Inflamed, I'd mock "em through the 
keyhols, Just ax they, with thelr tricks and thelr manners, mock a person throug 
‘8 person's keyhole!” 

An uncommonly emphatic shake of hee little Gat close before her eyes seemed 
Yo ense the mind of the person of the house; for she added with reoorered com- 
porure, “No, no, no! No children for me. Glvo me grown ups." 

Tt was dificult to guess the ago of this steange creature; for her poor figure fur+ 
‘alshed no clew to It, and her face was at once 40 young and 40 old. ‘Twelve, oF, at 
the most, thirteen, migh..be near the mark. 


(Bk. Ti, ch. i, i, v, xi, xv5 Bl. IN, ch. 
vili-xi, xv.) 




















iii, x, xiif Bk. TV, ch. 








466 Ebe Dickens Dictionary. 


Cleaver, Mr., cailed Mr. Doxzs. Her father; a good workman ar 
his trade, but a weak, wretched, trembling ecreatare, falling to 
pieces, and never sober. (Bk. II, ch. ii; Bk. IIL, ch. x, xvii; Bk. 





Dolls, Mr. See Curaven, Mn. 

Fledgeby, Mr., called Fascixatiox Fixpoxny. A dandified 
young man, who isa dolt in most matters, but sharp and ight 
enough where money is concerned. 

‘Young Fledgeby had a peachy cheek, or a cheek compounded of the peast and 
the red red red wall on which It grows, and was an 
amall-eyed youth, exceeding slim (his enemies would have sald Junky), and 
prone to self-examination in tho articles of whisker and mustache. While 
{feeling for the whisker that be nnxiously expected, Flodgeby underwent remark- 
able ductuations of spirits, ranging along the whole #cale from confidence to 
despair. ‘There were times when he started, ns exclaiming “ By Jupiter, here 
its nt Inst!” There wore otter timos when, being equally depressed, he would 
‘bo so0n to uhako bis head, and give up hope, To see him at those perlods, lean- 
ing on a chimney-piece, like as on an Urn containing the ashes of his ambition, 
with the cheek that would not sprout upon the hand on which that cheek Td 
forced conviction, was a distressing slght. -. « 

In facetious homage to the amallness of his talk and the Jerky nature of his 
manners, Fledgeby's farnillars had agreed to confer upon him Cbebiind his back) 
the honorary title of Puscination Fledgeby. 


He is an acquaintance of Mr. Lammle, who 
endeavors to marry him to Miss Georgiana Podsnap, Fledgeby 
having given him his note for one thousand pounds in caso he 
effects the arrangement. Fledgeby is a money-broker, and has an 
office, which is kept by an aged Jew in his service, and is known 
under the firm-name of Pubsey & Co.'s. Under the pretence of 
using his influence with Pubsey & Co., he often strolls into the 
counting-house with some unfortunate acquaintance,and pleads with 
the Jew for an extension on their overdue bills, The old man often 
watches his face for some sign of permission to do so, which is never 
given; yet Fledgeby habitually reviles him and his race “oe not 
granting the accommodation that he has himself foreed him to 

y. (Bk. If, ch. iv, v, xvi; Bk. II, ch. i, xii, xiii, xvii; Bk. TV 
ch. viii, ix, xvi.) See Rran, Mr. 
Glamour, Bob. A customer. at the Six Jolly Fellowship Porters 

(Bk. I, ch. vi; Bk. 1, ch. 
Gliddery, Bob. Pot-boy at the Six Jolly Fellowship Porters 

(Bk. I, ch. vi, xii; Bk. TH, ch. iii) 

Golden Dustman, The. See Borrrx, Nicopzmus, 
















Our Mituat Prlenv. 467 


Greenwich, Archbishop of, Head wajter at a hotel in Green- 
wich; a solemn gentleman in black clothes and white cravat, ook- 
ing mach like a clergyman. (Bk. TV, ch. iv.) 

Gruff and Glum. An old wooden-legged pensioner at Green- 
wich. (Bk. IV, ch. iv.) 

Handford, Julius, See Hanmon, Joux. 

Harmon, John, alias Jutrvs Haxprorp, alias Joux Rox 
smirn. Heir of the Harmon estate. On the death of his father, 
he returns to England from South Afiiea, where he has been living 
fora good many years. On his arrival, he is inveigled into a water- 
side inn by a pretended friend, named George Radfoot, with whom 
he has made the passage, and is drugged, robbed, and thrown into the 
Thamos. This pretended friend had previously changed clothes with 
Harmon, at the request of the latter, who desired to avoid recognition 
until he had seen a certain young lady whom he is required by his 
father’s will to marry. ‘The would-be assassin falls into a quarrel 
with a confederate over the money obtained by the robbery, and is 
himself murdered, and thrown into the river. The cold water into 
which Hurmon is plunged restores him to consciousness, and, swim- 
ming to the shore, he escapes. ‘The body of his assailant is found by 
aboatinan named Hexam, and is taken in charge by the authorities. 
The clothes and the papers on the body having been identified, it is 
supposed that the body itself is that of young Harmon, who, finding 
himself reported dead, resolves to take advantage of the circumstance 
to further his own plans, and assumes the name of Juntes Haxp- 
FORD, which he afterwards changes to Jom~ Roxesmirn. (Bk. 
I, ch. ili, ix, xv-xvii; Bk. II, ch. vii-x, xii-xiv; Bk, TL, ch. 
iv, v, ix, xv, xvi; Bk. IV, ch. iv, v, xi-xiv, xvi.) See Borrns, 
Nicopemvs. 

Harmon, Mrs. John. See Witren, Miss Betxa. 

Headstone, Bradley. A master in a school in that district 
of the flat country tending to the Thames, where Kent and Surrey 
mect. 

Bradley Headstone, in his decent bilack cont and walsteoat, and decent white 
shirt, and decent, formal black tie, and decent pantaloons of pepper and salt, 
with his decent silver watch in his pocket, and its decent halrgoard round his 
neck, looked a thoroughly decent young man of «ix and twenty. He was never 
ween In any other dress; and yet there was a certain stifoss In hie manner 
of wearing this, as it chere were # want of adaptation between htm and It, re 
calling some mechanics Iu thetr holiday clothes. Hehad acquired mechapically 


‘Sgrent store of teacher's knowltdge. He could 4o mental arithmetic mechan 
Sealy, sing at sight mechanically blow var’-us winJaastruments mechani wally, 








a 


Ebe Dickens Dictionary. 


strained manner over and above. 
and of what wes Sery (thoogh smouldering), 

that. if young Bradley Headwtone, whee 4 pan; 

Off for the sea, be wold not wre been the lart man in a ship's orew. 
ing that origin of his, be was proud, moody, aad sullen, 

otten. And few people knew of It. 


He falls passionately in love with Lizzic Hexam, and, 
that she favors Mr. Eugene Wraybarn, dogs his footsteps, and a 
tempts to kill him. Believing that he has dome #0, be flies, but 
followed by one Riderhood, a desperate character, who has witnessed 
tho assault, and who compels him to pay liberally for keeping tu 
secret, At last, Riderhood's demands and persecution become so un 
endurable, that Headstone determines to get rid of him omce for all. 


settlement, 1 aa: a-going along with you wherever you go."” 

Whhoat a word of reply, Bradley passed quickly from hiss over the wosden 
bridge on the tock-gates. “Why, theres even less sense Is this move than 
U other.” sabd Riderhood, following. “The welr "s there; aed you "Il hawe to 
‘como back, you know." 

Without tnking the Sesst notice, Dradley leaned his body againat @ post, tn 
resting attitude, and there rested with his eyes cast dows, “Belng brought 
here," ssid Riderbood gra My, “Ill tarn {t to some use by pean: - my gates” 
With a rattle and a rash of water, he then swung tothe losk-pstes that were 

ling open, before opening the others: so both sets of gates ware Bee 


1d better by far bo reasonable, Iimdley Headstone, master," wad Tider 
bood, passing him, “or I‘) drain you all the dryer for lt when we do seitie. — 


Bradiey had canght him round the body, He seemed to be girdled with an 
iron ring. They were om the brink of the lock, about midway between the two 
wots of gates. 

“Let gol" said Riderhood, “or I ll get my knife out, and slash you wher 
ever I cau cut you. Let got" 

Bradley wns drawing to the lockedge, Iiderhood wat drawmg sway from 





Our Mutual Pelend, 469, 


It. Ttwae n strong grapple and a flerce struggle, urm and leg. Bradley got 
him round, with hfs back to the lock, and still worked him backward. 

++ Lat got” sald Riderhood. “Stop! What are yon trying at? You can't 
drown me, Ain't I told you that the man as has come through drowning ean 
never be drowned! can’t be drowned !"* 

“1 can be!® returned Bradley in m desperate, clinched roles, I am re- 
solved to be. Tl hold you living. and Ill hold you dead. Come down!"* 

Riderhood went over {nto the smooth pit backwards, and Bradley Headstone 
upon him. When the two were found, lying under the ooge and scum belvind 
one of the rotting gates, Riderhood's hold had relaxed, probably 1n failing, 
‘and lls eyes wore staring upward; but he was girdied still with Bradley" Iron 
Hing, and the rivets of the [ron ring held tight. 


(Bk. TI, ch. , vi, xi, xiv, xv; Bk. IIT, ch. x, xi; Bk, TV, ch. §, 
+i, vii, xi) 

Hexam, Jesse, called Garren. A Thames “waterside charac 
ter;” a strong man with ragged grizzled hair and a sun-browned 
face. He is falsely accused of the marder of John Harmon, (Bk. 
I, ch. §, ili, vi, xil-xiv, xvi.) See Hexaor, Lizzre. 

Hexam, Charley. His son; a pupil of Bradley Hoeadstone’s, and 
a curious mixture of uncompleted savagery and completed civiliza- 
tion, He is tenderly loved and cared for by his sister, but renoun- 
ces her because she refuses his friend Headstone. Always utterly 
selfish and empty-hearted, und always bent on rising in the social 
scale, and increasing his “ respectability,” he renounces Headstone 
‘with equal readiness, when he finds good reason to think him guilty 
of the murder of his sister’s favored lover, Eugene Wrayburn, and 
that his own name is therefore likely to be dragged into injurious 
notoriety. (Bk. I, ch. iii, vi; Bk. Il, ch. i, vi, xv; Bk. IV, ch. 
vii! 

wie Lizzie. Daughter of Jesse or “Gaffer” Hexam. She 
is in the habit of rowing with her father on the Thames, and on 
‘one occasion, while thus engaged, they find the body of a man, 
afterwards identified as John Harmon. ‘Through the jealousy of 
Rogue Riderhood, suspicion is cast upon her father; and the officers 
undertake to arrest him as being concerned in the murder, but they 
find him in the river drowned, and attached to his own boat by a 
cord, in which he had apparently become entangled when he fell over- 
board. A young lawyer, Eugene Wrayburn, who accompanivs the 
aflicers, becomes interested in the daughter, manifests much sym- 
pathy with her in ber afffiction, and aids her in obtaining an edu- 
cation. Her brother's teacher, Bradley Headstone, falls deeply in 
love with her, and makes an offer of marriage. ‘This she refases, 
and to escape his importunitics, and also to save Wrayburn from 

“ 








= 


\er 


70 Che Dickens Mietfonarp. 


his vengeance (for Headstone believes him to be the enase of Hite 
rejection), she leaves London, and obtains employment ina paper- 
mill in the country. After much fruitless search for her, Wray= 
burn ascertains where she is, and follows, bent on having an 
interview with her. He is, in turn, followed by Headstone, who 
comes upon them while they are engaged im ccnverssticn. Waite 
ing until they part, the schoolmaster stealthily follows his rival, and 
deals him a murderous blow as he stands fora moment looking 
into tho river. Lizzie hears the blows, a faint grosn, and a fall 
into the water. Brave by nature and by habit, she rans towarde 
the spot from which the sound had come. Secing a bloody face 
turned up to the moon, and drifting away with the current, sie 
jumps into a boat near by, puts out into the stream, and, when she 
has rescued the suffurer, finds that it is her lover, She tenderly 
nurses him through the dangerous illness that follows. When con- 
sciousness returns, ho asks to be married to his preserver without 
delay, though no hope of his recovery is entertained by any one. 
Lizzie becomes his wife, and he grows stronger and better by 
slow degrees, and is at last restored to perfect health. (Bk. I, ch. 
xiii, xiv; Bk. II, ch. i, il, v, xi, xiv-xvi; Bk. TE, ch i 
ii, viii, ix; Bk. 1V, ch. v, x, xi, xvi, xvii.) 
Bigden, Mrs, Betty. A poor woman who keeps a “minding- 
school," and also a mangle, in one of the complicated back settle 
monts of Brentford. 


‘She was one of thove old women, .. . who, by dint of an indomitable par- 
pore and w xtrong constitution, fight out many years, thoogh each year hak 
come with ite new knook-down blows frosh to the fight against her weacled by 
ft; an active old woman, with a bright dark eye and o resolute face, yet quite s 
tender creature too; not a logically-reasoning woman. Bat God ix good; and 
hearts may count in heaven we high ax heady. 

Betty is haunted by a constant fear that she shall die inan alms 
house, 

“Do Inever read in the newspapers." said the dame, ... “God help me 
‘and tho like of me!—how the worn-out people thi 
driven from post to pillar and pillar to post a-pur 
never road how they are put olf, put off pat of; how they are grudged, 
gradged, grudged, the dhelter, or the doctor, or the drop of phyele, oF the Bit aif 

ver rea how chey grow heartsick of It, and give It =p, after 
‘Saving let themselves drop-so low, and haw after all, die out for want of 
help? Then Isay, I Lope 1 tun ei ax well as another; and 7 dic without tha. 
agro.” 

Absolutely impossible, my lords and gentlemen and honorable boards, by 
stretch of begislative wisdom to set these perverse people right tu thelr loglal 


(Bk. I, cb. xvi; Bk. Ul, ch. ix, x xiv; Bk. II, cb. viii.) 








Our Mutual Peter, 471 


, Mr. A police-officer who examines into the Harmon 
murder, (Bk. I, ch. iil; Bk. IV, cb. xii.) 

Joey, Captain. A bottle-nosed regular customer at the Six Jolly 
Fellowship Porters. (Bk. I, ch. vi; Bk. Hl, ch. iii.) 

Jonathan, A customer at the Six Jolly Fellowship Porters. (Bk. 
T, ch. vi; Bk. TI, ch. iii.) 

Johnny. An orphan, grandson of Betty Higden. The Boflins 
propose to adopt him; but he dies before the plan is carried inte 
effect. (Bk. I, ch. xvi; Bk. , ch. viii, ix, xiv; Bk. Tl, ch. ix.) 

Jones, George. A customer at the Six Jolly Fellowship Porters 
(Bk. L ch. vi) 

Kibble, Jacob. A fellow-passenger of John Harmon's on his 
voyage from Cape Colony to England. (Bk. Il, eh. xiti; Bk. IV, 
ch, xii.) 

Lammie, Alfred. A mature young gentleman with too much nose 
in his face, too much ginger in his whiskers, too much torso in his 
waistcoat, too much sparkle in his studs, his eyes, his buttons, his 
talk, and his teeth. He is an adventurer and a fortune-hunter ; 
and he marries Miss Sophronia Akershem, supposing her to be a 
Jady of wealth, while she marries him for the same reason; each 
being deceived by Mr. Vencering, who really knows next to noth- 
ing about either of them. This precious pair of entrapped impos- 
tors determine to revenge themselves on Veneering for his part in 
‘the matter, but fail in their plans, and after an attempt (which Is 
also a failure) to supplant. Rokesmith in the house of Mr. Boflin, 
they leave the country. (Bk. I, ch. Bk. Il, ch. v, xvi; Bk. 
IH, ch. i, v, xii, xvii; Bk. IV, ch. 

Lammie, Mrs. Alfred. See Axersuex, Miss Sorunomta. 

Lightwood, Mortimer, A young solicitor and attorney em- 
ployed by Mr. Boflin, He is an intimate friend of Eugene Wray- 
burn. ii, x, xii, xvi; Bk. II, ch. vi, xiv, xvi; 
Dk. IT, ch. x, ; Bk. IV, ch, ix-xii.) 

lary Anne. ‘Miss Poocher’s asalstant and favorite pupil, #0 im- 
bued with the class-custom of stretching out an arm, as if to hail a 
cab or omnibus, whenever she finds she | has an observation on band 
to offer to Miss Peecher, that she often does it in their domestic ro 
mtions, (Bk. I, ch. i, xi; Bk. IV, eh. vii.) 

Milvey, Mrs. Margaretta. Wife of the Reverend Frank; a 
pretty, bright little woman, something worn by anxiety, who has re- 
pressed many pretty tales and bright fancies, and substituted, in 


——_ 
























472 The Dickens Mctlo 





> 


their sted, schools, soup, flannel, coals, and all the weekday cares 
and Sunday coughs of a large population, young and old. (Bk. 1, 
ch. ix, xvi; Bk. II, ch. x; Bk. IM, ch. ix; Bk. IV, ch. xi.) 

Milvey, The Reverend Frank, <A young curate. (Bk. I, ch 
ix, xvi; Bk. II, ch. x; Bk. II, ch. ix; Bk. IV, ch. xi.) 

Heo was quite a young man, expensively educated and wretchedly pald, with 
quite & young wite, and half dozen quite young children, He was under the 
necessity of teaching, and translating from the classics, to eke out Dix scanty 
means, yet was generally expected to havo more time to spure than the iflest 
person I the parish, and more mouey than the richest. He accepted the neod- 
Jess inequalities and inconsistencies of his life with a kind of conrentionas 
submission that was almost alayish; and any daring layman who would hare 
adjusted such burdens as his more decently and graciously wonld hare nd smafl 
help from him. 


Mullins, Jack. A frequenter of the Six Jolly Feliowship Porters. 
(Bk, I, ch. vi.) 

Peecher, Mies Emma. A teacher in the female department of 
the school in which Bradley Headstone fs a master. (Bk. I, ch. 
xi, xv; Bk. If, ch. xi; Bk. IV, ch. vil.) 


Small, shining, neat, methodical, and buxom wax Miss Peecher; cherry. 
cheeked and tuneful of voice, A little pincushion, a little housewife, a litle 
book, a little work-box, a little set of tables and weights and measures, and » 
ttle woman, all in one, She could write a little essay on any subject, exactly 
alate long, beginning at the left-hand top of one side, and ending at the right 
hand bottom of the other; aud the easay should be strletly according torule, If 
‘Mr. Bradley Headstone had addressed a written proposal of marriage to her, 
she would probably have replied in a complete little essay on the theme exactly 
& alate long; but would certainly have replied, Yes,” for she loved him, ‘The 
decent halr-guard that went round his neck, and took caro of his decent silver 
watch. was an object of envy to her: so would Miss Peecher have gone round 
hia neck, and taken care of him,— of him, insenstble, because he did not love 
‘Mins Poecher, 

Podsnap, Miss Georgiana. A shy, foolish, affectionate girl, of 
nearly eighteen, in training for “society.” (Bk. I, ch. xi, xvily’ 
Bk. Il, ch. iv, v, xvi; Bk. IU, ch. i, xvii Bk. IV, ch. ii.) 

She wns but an undersized damsel, with high shoulders, low spirits, chilted 
elbows, and a rasped murfuce of nose, who seemed to take occasional frosty 
peeps out of childhood [nto womanhood, and to shrink back agaln, overcome 

jother’s head-dress, and her father from head to foot, crushed by the 
‘weight of Podsnappery. 

‘A certain Institution tn Mr. Podsnap's mind, which he called “the young 
person," may be considered to have been embodied in Mtiss Podsonp, | bs danghe 
ter. It was an incouyenient and exacting fnstitution, as requiring every thing 


in the universe to be filed down and fitted to it, The question about every 
thing was, Would {t bring blush Into the cheek of the young person? Ane 
the inconvenience of the young person was, that, necording to Mr. Podsnap, 
she soomed always liable to barat into blushes when there was no need at all 




















Our Mutual Prlenv. 473. 


‘There appeared to be no lino of demareation between the young perso 1's exoess 
4ve Innocence nnd another person’s guiltiest knowledge. Take Mr. Podsnap's 
word for It, and the soberest tints of drab, white, lilac, and gray. were all fam= 
tng red to this troublesome ball of a young person. .. . Mies Podenap’e life 
hind been, from her first appearance an this planet, altogether of a shady order; 
for Me. Podsnap’s young person wns likely to get little good out of association 
with other young persons. and had therefore been restricted to companionship 
with not very congenial older persons, and with massire farnitare. Miss Pods 
sunp’s early views of lifo bolng principally derived from the reflectfons of it in 
her father’s boots and in the walnut and rosewood tables of the dim drawiag- 
rooms, and in their awarthy giants of looking-xlasses, were of a sombre cast 
and it was not wonderful, that now, when she was on most days solemnly 
tooled through the park by the side of her mother ina great tall custard-colored 
phaeton, she showed above the apron of that vebicle like a dejected young per- 
sonasitting up In bed to take a startled look at things in general, and rery 
strongly desiring to get her head under the counterpane ngain. 


Podsnap, Mr. John, Her father; a member of * society,” and 
a pompous, self-satisfied man, swelling with patronage of his friends 
and acquaintances. (Bk. I, ch. ii, x, xi, xvii; Bk. II, ch. 
xvi; Bk. 10, ch. |, xvii; Bk. IV, ch. xvii.) 


Mr. Podénap was well to do, and stood very high In Mr. Podrnap’s optal 
‘Beginning with @ good taheritance, he bad married a good inheritance, and 
had thriven exceedingly in the murine Insurance way, and was quite satisfied. 
He never could make out why everybody was uot quite satisfied, and he felt 
‘conscious thit he set a brilliant social exatple in being particularly well satls- 
fled with most things, and, above all other things, with himself. 

‘Thus happily aoyuainted with his own merit and Importance, Mr. Podsnap 
acttled, that, whatever ho put bolind him, he put out of existences, ‘There was a 
Aiguified conclusiveness, not to udd a grand convenience, in this way of get 
ting rid of disagreeables, which had done much towards establishing Mr. Pod- 
snap in hils lofty place in Mr. Podsnap's satisfaction. “I don't want to know 
about it; I don’t choose to discuss it; 1 don't admit it!” Mr, Podsnap bad even 
amuired a peculiar fourish of his right mem in often clearing the world of ite 
most difficult problems by sweeping them behind him (and consequently sheer 
‘away) with those words and flushed fuoo; for they affronted him, 

Mr. Podsnap’s world was not a very large world morally, no, nor even geo 
t, although his business was sustained apon commerce 
ho considered other countries, with that Important resare 
of their manners and customs would conclusively 
jot Roglish!” when veysro! with a flourish of the arm aud ® 
flush of the fice, they were awept away. Elsewise, the world got up at eight, 
shaved close at a quarter-past, breakfasted at ning, went to the city at ten, 
came home at half-past dine, atid dined at scven.2fr. Podsnap's notions of 
thearts in thelr Integrity night tiare been #tsted thus» Literature: large print, 
respectfully deseriptive of geieimgup at eigh2,slumelngelove at » quarterpast, 
weakfasting at nine, golng to thaveiby ap fer ome at halfpast Ave, 
and dining at seven, Kaincing and scalpt=res models nud portralts, represent: 
tng professors of getting up at wight, shaving-tiove at a quarterpast, break 
fasting at nine, going 10 toe clty at tex, comlng Nome at half-past five, and 
ding at seven, Muslo: a respectable prrformauce (without ya>ations) ou 
oe 





























474 Tbe Wickens Wietlonary. 


stringed and wind instruments, sedately expressive of gotting up at eight 
shaving close at a quarter-past, breakfasting at nine, going to the elty at ten 
coming home at halfpast fire, and dining at seven. Glaeednentin 
mitted to those samo vagrants the arts, on pain of excommunication, Noth 

ing else to be—unswhere! 

‘Asa 50 emineotly respectable man, Mr. Podsnap was sensible of Ite betoe 
required of him to take Providence under his protection: consequentiy he 
always knew exacily what Providence meant. Inferior and bess respectable 
men infght fall short of that mark; but Mr. Podsnap was always ug te it. And 
‘It was very remarkable (and must have been very comfortable) that what Provi- 
dence meant was Invariably what Mr, Podsasp meant, 

‘These may be said to have been the articles of faith of m school whieh the 
present chapter takes the Hberty of calling, after ite representative mast, Pod- 
‘snappery. They were confined within close bounds, as Mr, Podsnap’s own head 
‘was confined by his shirt-collar: and they were enunciated with a sounding 
pomp that smacked of the creaking of Mr. Podsnap’s ows boots. 


Podsnap, Mrs, His wife; a" fine woman for Professor Owen, 
quantity of bone, neck and nostrils like a rocking-horse, hard 
features,” and a majestic presence. (Bk. I, ch. ii, x, xi, xvii; Bk, II, 
ch, iii, iv; Bk. TI, ch. i, xvii; Bk. IV, ch. xvii.) 

Poddles. The pet name of a little girl in Mrs, Betty Higden’s 
“minding-school.” (Bk. I, ch. xvi.) 

Potterson, Miss Abbey. Sole proprietor and manager of a 
well-kept tavern called the Six Jolly Fellowship Porters; a woman 
of great dignity and firmness, tall, upright, and well-favored, though 
severe of countenance, and having more the air of a schoolmistress 
than mistress of a publicchouse. (Bk. I, ch. vi, xiii; Bk. II, ch. 
ii, Hii; Bk. TV, ch. xii.) 

‘The Six Jolly Fellowship Porters, .. . as a tavern of a dropsleal ape 
pearance, bad long wettled down into a state of hate infirmity. In its whole 
coustitution it had not @ straight floor, nnd hardly a straight line; but tt 
Lind outlasted, and clearly would yet outlast, many a better-teimmed 
many & xprucer publichouse, Externally, it was w narrow, lopsided, wooden. 
Jumble of corpulent windows heaped one upon another, as you might heap ws 
‘many toppling oranges, with a crazy wooden veranda tmpending over the 
water: Indeed, the whole house, Inclusive of the complaining flagstaif of the 
roof, impended over the water, but seemed to have got into the cendition of # 
fulnt-hearted diver, who has paused so long on the brink, that he will never ga 
in ft at all. 

This dereription applies to the riverfrontage of the Six Jolly Pellowsitp 
Porters. ‘The back of the establishment, though the chief entrance was there, 
#0 contracted that it merely represented, in Its connection with the frout, the 
handle of aflatiron eet upright on ite broadest end. ‘This handle stood at the 
Dottom of a wilderness of court and alley, whfoh wilderness pressed xo hard wud 
¢lose upon the Six Jolly Fellowship Porters as to leave the hostlery not an ime 

‘ound boyond its door... « 
bar of the Six Jolly Fellowship Porters was 4 bar to soften the humar 
vreast. The available space in It was not much larger than & 










Our Mutual Prien. 475 


‘ut no one could have wished the bar Bigger, that space was yo girt io by core 
pulent ietle casks, wnd by cordisibottlos radiant with fictitious grapes tm 
‘Dunches. and by lemons in nots, and by bisouits in baskets, and by the polite 
‘beer-pulls that made low bows when eustomers were served with beer, and by 
the cheese In a snug corner, and br the landlady's own small table tn ® snugger 
orner near the fire, with the cloth everiastingly laid. This haven was divided 
from the rough world by a glass partition and a half-door with w leaden «fill 
upon tf for the conventence of resting your Nquor; but over this halfdoor the 
bar's snngness 50 gushed forth, that, albelt customers drank there, standing In 
a dark and draughty passage, where they were shouldered by other customers 
passing In and out, they always appeared to drink under an euchantng delu- 
tion that they were In tho bar itself. 

For the rest, both the tap and parlor of the Six Jolly Fellowship Porters 
pave upon the river,and had red curtalas, matching the noses of the regular 
‘customers, 

Potterson, Job. Her brother; steward of the ship in which John 
Harmon is a passenger. (Bk. I. ch. iii; Bk. I, ch. xiii; Bk. IV, 
ch. xii.) 

Pubsey and Co. The name of a fictitious firm of money-brokers 
in Saint Mary-Axe, used by “Fascination” Fledgeby to conceal 
his sharp practice In “shaving " notes, 

Riah, Mr. An aged Jew. of venerable aspect and a generous and 
noble natare, who befriends Lizzle Hexam, and obtains employment 
for her. He is the agent of “ Fascination ” Fledgeby, who directs 
all his proceedings, while keeping himself in’ the background. 
(Bk. OL, ch. v, xv; Bk. OY, ch. i, ii, x, xii, xiii; Bk. IV, ch. viii, 
ix, xvi.) 


Fascination Fledgeby took another seratch at his intellectual head with bbe 
‘hat [and sald), Who but you and I ever heard of a poor Jew? 

‘The Jews," said the old man, raising his eyes from the ground with his 
former smile. ‘They hear of poor Jews often, and are very good to them.” 

“Bothor that!" roturned Fledgeby, “You kuow what Tmean. You'd pers 
‘sundo me, if you could, that yon are a poor Jew. Iwish you'd eonfess how 
much you really did make out of my late governor. I should have a better 
ogirion of you.” 

‘The old man only bent his head, and stretched out his hands as before, 

“Don't govon posturing like a deaf-and-dumb sebool,” sald the ingentous 
Fiodgeby, “but express yourself Wke a Christian, —or ax nearly ax you can.” 

“Thad tied sickness and misfortunes, and was xo poor," sald the old man, 
“ax hopelessly to owe the father principal and interest. The son inheriting 
‘was so merciful as to forgive mo both, and place me here” 

He made w little gesture as though Je klaved the hem of am tmaguury gar 
ment worn by the noble youth before him, Itwas humbly done, but plature 
esquely, and was not abasiog to the doer. 

* You won’t ay moro, f moe," sald Flodgeby, looking at him as If he would 
Uke to try the effect of extricating m double-tooth or two, “nnd so its of no 
‘use my putting It to you. But confess this, Xiah: who believes you to be poor 
now?” 




















476 Ebe Dickens Wietfonary. 


“No ono,” ral the old man- 

«There you ’re right,” assented Fledgeby. 

“No ond," repeated the old man with a grave slow wave of hiy head. “AL 
teout it asa fable, Were I to vay, “This litte fancy batines Ie not mined * 
with a lithe «weep of his easily-turning hand around him to comprehend the 
various objects ou the shelves, “*it is the little business of a Cheistian young 
gentleman, who places mo, hls servant, in trast and charge here, and to whom 
Tam accountable for every single bead,’ they would inugh. When, in the Anrgor 
money-business, I tell the borrowers” — 

“Tay, old chap!" interposed Fledgeby, “I hope you mind what you do (et 
tem?” 

“Sir, I fell them no more than Tam about to repent. When T tell them, «T 
¢annot promise this, Teannot answer for the other, I must see my prinelpal, T 
hare not the money, I am s poor man, and it does not rest with mo," they are 20 
unbelieving and so {mpatient, that they sometimes curse me in Jehovah's 
name.” 

© That 's doused good, that is!” said Fascination Fledgeby. 

“ And at other times they say, ‘Can It never be done without these tricks, 
Mr. Rlah? Come, come, Mr. Kish, we know the arts of your people? — My 
people!—'If the money Is to be lent, fotch It, feteh 1; If tt te not to be 
ent, keep If and say so.’ ‘They never believe mo” 

© Thot ’s all right,” rald Fascination Fledgeby. 

“They say,*We know, Mr. Riah, we know. We hare but to look at you, 
wend we know?” 

“Oh! a good ’un are you for the post,” thought Fledgeby, “and m good um 
was I to mark you out for it! I may be alow; but I am precious sure.” 

‘Not a aylluble of this reflection shaped tteelf In any scrap of Mr, Fledgeby’s 
Dreath, lest it should tend to put his servants price up. But, looking at the old 
man ax he stood quiet, with his head bowed and his eyes east down, he felt, that 
to relinquish an inch of hie baldness, an tnch of his gray halr, au inch of his 
eoat-skirt, an Inch of his hatbrim, an Inch of his walking-statf, would be to 
relinquish hundreds of pounds. 

“Look here, Binh,” sald Fledgeby, mollified by these selfapproving eonald- 
erations, “I want to go a little more into buying up queer bills, Look out ts 
that direation 

“Sir, it shall be done” 

“Casting my eye over the accounts, I find that branch of business pays 
pretty fuirly, and Tam game for extending it. I lke to know people's aifaira 
Mkewise: #0 look out.” 

“Sir, T will, promptly.” 

* Put it about in the right quarters, that you ‘ll buy queer bills by the lump 
=Dby the pound-weight, if that 's nll,—aupposing you see your way to m fale 
chance on looking over the parcel. And there *s one thing more. Come to me 
with the books for perlodical Ingpection, as usual, at eight on Monday mors 
ing.” 

Tah drew some folding tablets from his breast, and noted it down. 

‘That's all I wanted to #ay at the present time,” coutinued Fiedgeby in 
grudging vein ns he got off the stool. 


Riderhood, Pleasant. Dauyhter of Roger Riderhood ; finally 
married to Mr. Venus, after rejecting him more than once. (BE 
I, ch. xii, xifi; Bk. II, ch. iv, vii; Bk. IV, ch. xiv.) 



































Our Mutual Pelend. MT 


Uyon the smallest of small seales, she was an unticensed pawnbroker, keop- 
tng what was popularly called a leavingshop, by lending insignificant sume 
‘a9 insigniiicant articles of property deposited with her as seourity. In her 
four and twentieth yenr of Iifo, Peasant wns already in her fifth year of this 
way of trade. 

‘Why christened Pleasant, the late Mrs. Riderhood might possibly hare been 
at some time able to explain, and possibly not. Her daughter had no informa+ 
tlon on that point: Pleasant she found herself, nud she could wt help it. She 
had not bren consulted on the question, any more than on the question of ber 
coming into these terrostrial parts to want ® namo, Similarly she found her- 
aclf possessed of what is colloquially termed a swivel eye (derived from ber 
father), which she might perhaps have declined if her sentiments on the sub- 
Ject hud been taken. Sho was not otherwise positively illlooking, thong anx= 
fous, meagre, of a muddy complexion, and looking as old again as she really 
was. 

An some dogs livre it in the blood, or are tratned, to worry certain creatures 
to acertaln point, so—not to make the comparison disrespectfully — Pleasant 
Riderhood had it {a the blood. or had been trained, to regard seamen, within 
certain limits, as her prey. Show her aman ina blue Jacket, wnd, figuratively 
speaking, she ploned him Instantly. Yet, all things considered, she was not of 
an evil mind of an wokindly disposition, 

Riderhood, Roger, called Roove. A desperate “waterside 
character,” in whose house an attempt is made on John Harmon's 
life. Quarrelling with Gaffer Hexam, who had been his partner, 
and anxious to obtain the reward offered by Mr. Bollin forthe arrest 
of the supposed murderer, he goes to Mortimer Lightwood's office, 
and accuses Hexam of having done the deed. Search being made 
for Hexam, he {s discovered drowned; and the reward is conse- 
quently not paid. Riderhood finally becomes a deputy lock-keoper 
at Plashwater Weir Mill, and is cognizant of Bradley Headstone’s 
attack on Eugene Wrayburn. He uses his knowledge as a means 
of extorting money from Headstone, and at last, by his continued 
demands, drives him to desperation, A quarrel ensues, which 
results in the death of both. (Bk. I, ch. i, vi, xii-xiv; Bk. Hl, ch. 
xii-xiv, xvi; Bk. I, ch. ii, iii, vili, xi; Bk. IV, ch. 4, vil, xy.) 
See Heapstonr, Brapier. 

Rokesmith, John. See Harmon, Jonn. 

Rokesmith, Mrs. John. See Hanmox, Mrs, Jom. 

Sampson, George. A young man who is very intimate with the 
Wilfer family. At first he ho~ers around Miss Bella, but, on her 
be.rothal to Mr. John Harmon, transfers his affections to her sister 
Lavinia, who keeps nim — partly in remembrance of his bud taste 
in having overlooked her in the first instance —under a course of 
Mtinging discipline. (Bk. J, ch. iv, ix; Bk. I, ch. xiv; Bk. ID, 
ch. iv, xvi; Bk. IV, ch. vy, xvi.) 

















78 Ebe Dickens Mictlonacg. 


, A love-child, found in the street, brought up in the poor 
house, and adopted by Betty Higden, who keeps him employed in 
turning a mangle. He is afterwards taken into Mr. Boffin’s sere 
vice. (Bk. I, ch. xvi; Bk. HU, ch. ix, x, xiv; Bk. Ill, ch. ix; Bk. 
TV, ch. iii, xiv, xvi.) 


Of an ungainly make was Sloppy, —too much of him longrelse, too little of 
him broadwise, and too many sharp angles of him anglewise. One of those 
«humbling male human creatures. born to be indiscreetly candid in the revela- 
tion of buttons; erery batton he had about hbn glaring at the public to « quite 
breternatural extent, A considerable capital of knee and elbow, and wrist 
and aakle, had Sloppy; and he did n't know how to dispose of it to the best 
mivantage, but was always investing It 1a wrong securities, and eo getting 
uimself Into embarrassed circumstances, Full-private Number One in the 
Awkward Squad of the rank and file of life was Sloppy, and yet had his glim- 
inéring notions of standing true te the colors, 


Snigsworth, Lord. First cousin to Mr. Twemlow; a nobleman 
with gout in his temper. (Bk. I, ch. ii, x; Bk. Il, ch. iii, v, xvi; 
Bk. IV, ch. xvi.) 

Sprodgkin, Mrs. A portentous old pnrishioner of the Reverend 
Frank Milvey, and the plague of his lift. She is constantly wish« 
ing to know who begat whom, or wanting eome information eon- 
cerning the Amorites. (Bk. IV, ch. xi.) 

She was n member of the Reverend Frank's congregation, and made & pont 
of distinguishing hervelf in that body by consplenously weeping at every 
thing, however cheering, sald by the Reverend Frank in his public mlnistea- 
tion; also by applying to herself the various lamentations of David, and eom- 
plaining, in n personally injured manner (much n wrrear of the clerk and the 
rest of the respondents), that her enemies were digging pitfalls about er, and 
breaking her with rods of Iron. Indeed, this old widow discharged herself of 
‘that portion of the morning and evening service as if she ware lodging m com> 
plaint on oath, and applying for a warrant before a magistrate. But this was 
nother most inconventent characteristic: for that took the form of an impression, 
usually recurring in inclement weather, and at about daybreak, that she had 
something on her mind, and stood in immediate need of the Reyerend Frank to 
come and take ft off. Many a time had that kind creature got up and gone ont to 
Mrs, Sprodgkin (such was the dixclplo’s name), supproasiog & strong ¢onee 
of her comicality by his strong senso of duty, and perfectly knowing that nothing 
but # cold would come of It, 

fapkins, Mrs. A fashionable woman who calls at the door of the 
“eminently aristocratic” mansion to which the Boffins remove from 
the “Bower,” and leaves a card for herself, Miss Tupkins, Mis 
Frederica Tapkins, Miss Antonina Tapkins, Miss Malvina Tap 
kin id Miss Euphemia Tapkins; also the card of Mrs, Henry 
George Alfred Swoshle, née Tapkins; also a card, Mrs. Tapkins 
at home Wednesdays, Music, Portland Place. (Bk. 1, ch. sevike) 




















Our Mutual Petenv. 479 


Tipping. Lady. A friend of the Vencorings, and a momber of 
society :”” relict of the late Sir Thomas Tipping, knighted, by mis- 
take, for somebody élse by his Majesty, King George the Third. 
She is & charming old woman, with an immense obtuse, drab, ob- 
Tong face, like a face in a tablespoon, and « dyed Jong walk up 
the top of her head, as a convenient public approach to the bunch 
of false hair behind. She affects perennial youth in her dress and 
manners, and exerts herself to fascinate the male sex, especially 
the unmarried portion of it. (Bk. I, ch. ii, x, xvii; Bk. Ul, ch. ili, 
xvi; Bk. III, ch. xvii; Bk. IV, ch. xvii.) 

A grisly little fiction conceruing her lovers 1s Lady Tippins’s point. She ts 
always attended by a lover or two; and she keeps a little list of her lovers; and 
she Is always booking a new lover, or striking out an old lover, or putilog a 
sorer in her black list, or promoting » lover to her blue list, or adding up her 
twvers, oF otherwise posting her book. 

Toddles, Th pet name of a little boy in Mra. Betty Higden’s 
“minding-schoul.” (Bk. I, ch. xvi.) 

Tootie, Tom, A frequenter of the Six Jolly Fellowship Porters, 
who is on the point of being married. (Bk. I, ch. vi; Bk. TL, ch. 
ii, ii) 

Twemlow, Mr. Melvin. A friend of the Veneerings, and a 
member of “society,” He is poor, and lives over a livery-stable- 
yard in Duke Street, St. James's; but, being first cousin to Lord 
Snigsworth, he is in frequent requisition, and at many houses 
may be said to ropresent the dining-table in its normal state. His 
noble relative allows him a small annuity, on which he iives; and 
takes it out of him, as the phrase gocs, in extreme severity ; putting 
him, when he visits at Snigsworthy Park, under a kind of martial 
law; ordaining that he shall hang his hat on a particular peg, sit 
on a particular chair, talk on particular subjects to pirticular peo- 
ple, and perform particular exercises, —such as sounding the praises 
of the family varnish (hot to say pictures), and abstaining from the 
choicest of the family wines, unless expressly invited to partake 
(Bk. I, ch. x, xvii; Bk. I, ch. iii xvi; Bk. IM, ch. xiii; Bk 
IV, ch. xvi, xvii.) 

Veneering, Mr. Hamilton. A parvenu, tolerated by “ roci- 
ety” on account of his wealth. Formerly traveller or commission 
agent of Chicksey and Stobbles, draggista, but aRterwards admitted 
into the firm, of which he becomes the supreme head, absorbing 
both bis partners. He is a man of forty, wavy-haired, dark, tend- 
ing to corpulence, sly, mysterious, filmy,—a kind of sufficiently 














480 The Dickens Mictlonarp. 


well-looking veilod prophet, not prophesying. By a liberal esi 
iture of money, he gets himself returned to the House of Commone 
from the borough of Pocket-Breaches. (Bk. J, ch. ii, x, xi, xvii; 
Bk. WI, ch. iii, xvi; Bk. UY, ch. xvii; Bk. IV, ch. xvii.) 

Mr. and Mre, Veneering wore bran-new people in a bran-new houre In a 
dran-new quarter of London. Every thing about the Venoerings was 
span-new. All thelr furniture was new; all thelr friends were new; all thelr 
servants were new; thelr plate wns new; thelr carriage was new; thelrharnesa 
‘was new; their horves were new; thelr pictures were new; they themselves wore 
now; they were as newly married as was lawfully compatible with thelr hariog 
‘& bran-new baby; and, if they had set up m great-grandfather, he would hare 
come home fn matting from the Pantechnicon, without a scenteh upon him, 
French polished to the crown of his head. For in the Veneering establishment, 
from the hall-chairs with the new coat of arma to the grand pianoforte with the 
‘new notion, and up stairs again to the new fire-eseape, all things were in m state 
of high varnish and polish. And what was obsereable in the furniture was 
observable In the Vencerings,— the surface emelt « little too much of the work- 
shop, and wns a trifle sticky. 


Veneering, Mrs, Anastasia, His wife; a fair woman, aqui- 
Tine nosed and fingered, not so much light hair as she might kaye, 
gorgeous in raiment and jewels, enthusiastic, propitiatory, conscious 
that a corner of her husband's veil is over herself, (Bk. & ch. ii, 
x, xi, xvii; Bk. IL, ch. iii, xvi; Bk, I, ch, xvii; Bk. TV, ch. 
xvii.) 

Venus, Mr. A preserver of animals and birds, and articulator 
of human bones. He becomes a confederate of Mr Wegg’s in his 
plan of blackmailing Mr. Boffin; but being, on the whole, a very 
honest man, and repenting of what he has done, he makes amends 
by confidentially disclosing the whole plot. His shop in Clerken- 
well, his personal appearance, and the nature of his occupation, are 
described in the following extract :— 








In a narrow and adisty atreot . . ., Mr. Woggaeleots ane dark shop-window, 
with a tallow-candio dimly burning in St, surroonded by & muddle of objects 
‘vaguely resembling pleces of leather and dry atiek, but among which nothing tx 
resolvable into any thing distinct, sre the candle itelf in ita old thn candle 
atiok. and two preserved frogs fighting asmallsword duel, Stamping with fresh 
‘vigor. he goes fn at the dark, greasy entry, pushes o little grensy, dark, re 
luotant side-door. and follows the door nto the litte dark, greasy shop. Tt fx 
sc dark, that nothing can be mado out in it, over # Hetle counter, but another 
taliow-candle in another old tin candlestick, clove to the face of » man stoopling 
Jow ina chalr. 

Mr. Wegg novs to the face,  Good-erening!" 

‘The fuce looking up fs a sallow fnce, with weak eyes, surmounted by a tangle 
of reddish, dusty halr, ‘The owner of the face has no cravat on, and has opened 
is rumbled ehirt-collar to work with the more ease, For tho samo reason, he 
tens 00 coat on: only a loose waisteonr over bis yellow linen. His eyes aré like 











Our Mutual Prlenv. 481 


the overtried eyes of an engraver; but he fx not that: his expression aud stoop 
are like those of a ahioemaker; bur he is not that, 

“ Good-erening, Mr, Venus! Don't you remember?” 

‘With slowly-dawning remembrance, Mr. Venus rises, and holds hie candle 
over the little counter, and holds it down towards the legs, natural and artid- 
lal, of Mr. Were. 

“To be sure!” hovays then. “How do you do?” 

“ Wegg, you know," that geatleman explalns. 

* Yea, yor." says the other, “Hospital amputation 2” 

“Just 30,” says Mr. Weg. 

“Yes, yes.” quoth Venus. “How do you do? Sit down by the fire, and 
warm your—your other one, ... My tes is drawing, snd my muffin fs on the 
aobb, Mr. Wegg: will you partake?" 

It being one of Mr. Wogg’s guiding rules In life always to partake, he says 
be will, But the Httle shop ts #0 excessively dark, 4s stuck so full of black 
shelves and brackets and nooks and corners, that he sees Mr. Venus’s cup and 
‘aucér only becauso It is close under the candle, and does not see from what 
mysterious recess Mr. Venus produces another for himself, until {t ts under his 
nose. Concurrently, Wegg perceives a pretty little dead bird lying on the counter, 
with Ita head droopiag on one side against the rim of Mr. Venus’s saucer, and & 
tong, sti wire plercing its breast,—as if It were Cock Robin, the hero of the 
ballad; and Mfr. Venus were the sparrow. with his bow and arrow; and Mr. Werg 
wero the fly with his littleeye. . .. As the muffins disappear, little by little, the 
biack shelves and nooks und corners begin to appear, and Mr. Wegg gradually 
acquires an imperfect notion that over against him, on the ehimney-plece, t* 4 
indoo baby In w bottle, curred up, with his big head tucked ander him, as thongh 
he would instantly throw a summersault if the bottle were large enough. . . 

At thls moment the greasy door {s riolently pushed (award; anda boy follows 
It, who says, after having let it ¢lam,— 

“Come for the stuffed canary.” 

“1% three and ninepence,” returns Venus,“ Ilave you got the money?” 

‘The boy produces four shillings. Mr. Venus, always in exceedingly tow spirita, 
‘and making whimpering sounds, peers about for the stuffed canary. On his taking 
the candle to aasiet hia search, Mr. Wogg observes that he has a conventent little 
shelf near his knees, exclusively approprinted to skeleton hands, which have very 
much the appearance of wanting to lay bold of him. From these Mr. Venus 
reseues the canary in a glass ease, and shows it to the boy, 

“There!” he whimpers, “There ‘* animation! On « twig, making up La 
mind to hop! Take care of him: he's @ lovely speclmen.— And three ts four.” 

‘The boy gathers up his change, and has palled the door open by » leather strays 
‘tailed to it for the parpose, when Venus cries out, — 

“Stop him! Come back, you young villain! You "ve got a tooth smong them 
Aalfpence.” 

“How was Tto know I'd got it? You give it me. I don’t want none of your 
teath: I've got enough of my own.” So the boy pipes as he selects It from hia 
ehange, and throws it on the counter. 

“Don't sauce me in the wicious pride of your youth?” Mr. Venus retorts pathet: 
Jeaily. Don't hit me because you see I?m down. I’m low enough without that. 16 
roped into the till. T suppote, ‘They drop into every thing, There was two In 
‘the eoffee-pot at lrenkfust-time,— molars.” 

“Very welt, thon,” argues the boy, “ what do you call names for?” 

‘To which afr. Venus only replies, shaking his ehock of dusty halr, and winking 

“ 


























(a 





482 She Wickens Wictlomary. 


his weak eyes, “ Don’t sauce me in the wistoas pride of your youth; don’t it me 
decause you see Im down. You've no dea tow small you Mt come out if 1 had 
the articulating of you." 

‘This consideration seems to have its effect on the boy; for he goes out grum- 
bling. 
“Oh, dear me, dear me!” sighs Mr. Venus heavily, enufllng the candle, “the 
‘world that appeared so flowery has sensed to blow! You ‘re casting your eye 
round the shop, Mr. Wegg. Let mo show you alight. My working-bench. My 
young man’s bench. Awice. Tools. Bones, warlous, Skulls, wartous, Dre 
werved Indian baby, African ditto, Bottled preparations, warious. Every 
thing within reach of your hand In good preservation. ‘The mouldy ones a-top. 
‘What ’s in those hampers over them again, T don’t quite remember. Say, hu 
man warious, Cats. Artloalated English baby. Dogs. Ducks. Glass eyes 
warious. Mummied bird. Dried cuticle, warious. Oh, dear met That % the 
‘general panoramic view.” 


(Bk. I, ch. vii; Bk, Il, ch. vii; Bk. IM, ch. vi, vil, xiv; Bk 1V, 
ch. iii, xiv.) 


Wegg, Silas, A ballad-monger, who also keeps a fruit-stall, near 
Cavendish Square. 


Assuredly this stall of Silas Wogg’s wns the hardest little stall of all the ster- 
Me little stalls in London. It gave you the face-ache to look at his apples, the 
stomach-ache to look at his oranges, the toothache to look st his nuts. Of the 
latter commodity he had always a grim little heap, on which lay a little wooden 
measure, which had no discernible inside, and was considered to represent the 
penn'orth appointed by Magna Charts. Whether from too much east wind or 
no, —it was au easterly corner, — the stall, the scock, and the keeper were all ma 
dry as the desert. Wegg was a knotty man, and a close-gralned, with w fhoe 
carved out of very hard material, that had Just ax much play of expression as a 
watchman’s rattle, When he laughed, certain Jerks occurred In ft, and the 
rattle sprung. Booth tos 8 90 wooden a min. that he seemed to hare 
‘taken his wooden Jeg naturally, aud rather ruggested to the finolful observer, 
that he might be oxpectid —If his development received no untimely eheck — 
to be completely set up with a pair of wooden legs in about six months, 


Mr. Boffin thinking himself too old “to begin shovelling and 
sifting at alphabeds and grammar-books,” and wanting to engage 
some one to read to him, is attracted by Mr. Wegg's collection of 
ballads displayed on an unfolded clothes-horse. He enters into con- 
versation with the proprietor, and, when he finds that “all print is 
open to him,” is filled with admiration of him as being “a literary 
maa with a wooden leg.” 



























“why, teuly, sir,” Mr. Wegg admitted with modesty, “T believe you could 
2% show mo the plece of Kngllah print, that I would n’t be equal to collariiyt 
and throwing.” 
Ou the spot ?” ald dr. Bofin, 
mn the spot.” 
“T knowl it! ‘Then consider this. Here am I, man without @ woodes 
d yet all print is shut to me” “ 

















Our Mutual Helend. . 483 


“Indeed, tir?™ Mr. Wegg returned with an tnoreasing self-complacency. 
™ Education neglected?” 

“Neglected! * repeated Boffin with emphasis, “That afn’t no word for it. 2 
don't mean to say but what, if you showed me a B, I could so fur give you change 
for It as to answer Bom 

“Come, come, sir." sald Mr. Weg, throwing in » little encouragement," that's 
vomething too.” 

“It %e something,” answered Mr. Boffin; “but Til take my oath tt alse 
much.” 


After some further conversation, and some ciphering, Mr, Bolin 
offers Mr. Wegg half a crown a week to read to him two hours every 
evening. 








Yotntingto this result as a large and satisfactory one, Mr. Bolin smeared It out 
‘with his moistened glove, and sat down on the remains. 

+ Half a crown," ald Wegg, meditating, “Yes, (It alo't much, sir.) Hatta 
‘erown!” 

“Wer week, you know.” 

“Per wook, Yes. As to tho amount of strain upon the Intellect now. Was 
you thinking at all of poetry?” Mr. Wegg inquired, musing. 

“ Would It come dearer?" Mr. Boffin asked. 

“It would come dearer,” Mr. Wegg returned; “for, when ® person comes to 
grind off poetry night afer night, it is but right he should expect to be pald for its 
‘weakenIng effect on his mind.” 

“To tell you the truth, Wegg," sald Boflin, "Twas n°¢ thinking of pootry, ex- 
‘copt inso far as this: If you wag to happen now and then 10 feel yourself in the 
mind to tip me and Mrs, Goffin one of your ballads, why, then, we should drop 
Ante poetry.” 

“F follow you, sir,” sald Wegg; “bat, not being a regular musieal professional, 
Tshould be loath to engage myself for that; and therefore, when I dropped into 
poetry, I should ask tobe considered so fur in the light of @ friend? 

At this Mr. Boffin’s eyes sparkled; and he shook Silas earnestly by the band, 
protesting that It was more than ho could have asked, and that he took It very 
kindly indeed. 

“What do you think of the terms, Wegg?” Mr. Hoffin then demanded with 
wiconcealed anxiety. 

Silas, who had stimulated this anxtety by his hard reserve of manner, and who 
had begun to understand his man very well, replied, with an alr us if he was ange 
ing something extraordinarily generous and great,— 

Mr. Bolin, T never bargain.” 

«So - whould have thought of you," sald Mfr. Boffin admiringly. 

“No, wir, Tnover did ’aggle, and I never will Yaggle. Consequently I meet you 
at once, free and fulr, with: Done for double the money! 

Mr. Boffin seemed a little unprepared for this conclusion, but assented, with the 
remark, * You know better what it ought to be than I do, Wegg,” and again shook 
hands with him upon it, 

Could you begin to-night, Wom *” he then demanded. 

Yes, sir,” said Mr. Wegg, careful to leave all the eagerness to him. “Tee 
ho difficulty if you wish It, You aro provided with tho needful Implement,—s 
ook, oir?” 

“ought him at asale," sala Mr. Bolla. “Eight wollumes, Red and gold 























454 . be Dickens Dictlonarp. 


urate ri0bon tn every wollume to keep the place where you lames sf; Does 
“The book's name, str?® inquired Silas. 


Hoffin weat over these stones slowly and with mach cation.) 
Ay, todeod!" sad Mr. Wegg, modding his esd with an alr of friendly recog: 
altion. 


= You know him, Wegg?™ 
“1 have ot been ot to aay Fight slap throagh him very Istely,” Mr. Weat 
employed, Mr. Botts. But kuow him? 


Bot so high as your stick. Ever sisce my eldest brother left cur cottage to 
tato the army, Ov which occasion, a the ballad that was made about ft d= 


(= Beebe that coctage<teor, Mr. Beta, 
A grt wae on ber Raewe: 
She bed slot a swewy meant, str, 
WRB (my eldest brother sotiord) Gattered te the Brees 
‘She breathed prayer fer Rem, Mr. Beilin; 
A prayer be coudd wot hears 
‘And my cident brother inané agen tis eword, Mr Retin, 
And wiped away 6 teen” 
Much Impressed pifemaberrntpeirapepectp mt 
tition of Mr. Wegz. a1 cxemplised In hit so seou dropping lito poetry, Mr. Def 
fo again shook hands with that ligneoge sharper, and besosght him to mame his 
hosr. Mr. Weg named eight 
© 1 shall expect you, Weg,” aald Mr. Bota, capping him on the shoulder with: 
the greatest enthusiasm,“ most Jorfally. T shall hare Do peace OF patlenee fil 
you come. Print ls now opening abead ef me. This ight, a tersry mam, with 
Sweetes ing." —he bestowed as ebetring look epee that 
(@reatly cobasced the relied of Mr. Wegg’s sttainments, —~ will begin to lead ae 
evew life My @st again. Wegg: morsing, morning, morning? ™ 


When night comes, Mr. Weg stumps it to the Bower, according to 
appointment. After introduction to Mrs Bolin, and a little prelim’ 
nary conversation, Mr. Boffia inquires, — 

“Now, what "ll you read on?” 

~ Thank you, sir," retarned Weeg. as if there were nothing mew in Bis ecmdling 
Stati. + Igenerally do it op gin aml water.” 

+ Keeps the organ moist, does Ic, Wegg 1” ankel Mr. Beds with lamonent eager 
Bese 

Nowa sir." repli Wegg coolly: 1 shook bantiy deweribe It 0 alr. Zahoat 
ear meiers tt. Mens & bs the word | stonh empley, Mr. Be@ia” . . 
now, Mr, Weg a2 length . . . pat on bis eprctactes; amt Mr. Batis. oe 
Pipe. sod looket with beaming eyes (sto thee epraiag work! betters Bien; amd Mes, 
Bots rectiord ts a farhincabir cuaseer ow ber ova, as one whe wanhd be peste? 
We ne Leave Lf she faced phe could emt woell go bu sleep If sbe foead she eoahs 
ee 

* Wom!” degen Wegg. “This, Mr. Bodin and Laity. ls Che Siret 
Srvt wolleme of * The Dectioe and Fat ot *'— bere be looked hand ot ther Ie 
bed meyyed. 





@ur Mutual Priend. 485 


“What %s the matter, Wegg?” 

“Why; It comes into my mind, do you know, str,” said Wegg with an alr of 
foxinuating frankness (having first again looked hard at the book), “that you 
made a little mistake this morning, which I had meaut to set you right in, only 
tomething put it out of my head. Ithiak you sald Rooshan Empire, sir?” 

“Itts Roshan; ain't It, Wegg?” 

No, sir. Roman, Roman." 

“What's the difference, Wega?” 

“The ditterence, sir?” Mr. Wegg was faltering, and in danger of Breaking 
down, when a bright thought flashed upon him. “The difference, alr? There 
you place me in a difficulty, Mr. Boffin, Suffice it to observe, that the difference 
4s best postponed to some other occasion, when Mrs. Bolin does not honor us 
with her company. In Mrs. Boflio’s presence, sir, we bad better drop tt.” 

‘Mr. Wegg thns camo oat of his disadvantage with quite chivalrous alr; and 
‘not only that, but by dint of repeating with » manly delicacy, “In Ms. Bosh’s 
presence, sir, we had better drop ft,” turned the disadvantage on Bothn, who 
felt that he had committed himself in a very painful manner, 

‘Then Mr. Weg, ino dry, unflinching way, entered ou his task; going atralght 
across country at every thing that came before him; taking all the hard words, 
Diographical and geograptical; getting rather shaken by Hadrian, Trajan, and 

ud supposed 
dy Mr. Bofia to be a Roman virgin, and by Mrs. Boffin to be responsible for 
that necessity of dropping It); heavily unseated by Titus Antoninus Pus; up 
again and galloping smoothly with Augustus; Gually, getting over the ground 
‘well with Commodus, who, under the appellation of Commodious, was held by 
Mr. Botlin to have been quite unworthy of his Kuglish origin, and “ not to have 
acted up to his name” in his government of the Roman people. With the death 
of this personage Mr. Wegg tarminated bis first reading. 


‘Mr, Wegg turns out to be a raseal. Not resting satisfied with 
the salary which he receives from Mr. Boflin, he tries to better his 
condition by knavery. Prying everywhere about the premises, he 
at last discovers a will in which the elder Mr. Harmon leaves all 
his property to the crown. Ascertaining that this will is of later 
date than the one in Mr, Boffin’s favor, which has been admitted to 
probate, he conspires with an acquaintance (Mr. Venus), either to 
oust Mr. Boffin, or to compel him to buy them off. He finds, to his 
astonishment, however, thut there is a still later grill in the posses- 
sion of Mr. Boffin, who has suppressed it because it leaves him all 
the property ; while the one which has been proved leaves it. to the 
‘testator’s son on the condition of his marrying Miss Bella Wilfer. 
Discomfited and ecrestfallen, the avaricious Wegg returns, perforce, 
to his old trade of selling ballads, gingerbread, and the like. (Bk. I, 
ch. v, vil, xv, xvii; Bk. I, ch. vii, x; Bk. IIL, ch. vi, vii, xiv; Bk. 
TV, ch. ii, xiv.) 

Wilfer, Miss Bella. Daughter of Reginald Wilfer, and protégée 
of the Boffins: afterwards the wif of John Harmon. (Bk. I, ch 








>_> 





486 Ebe Dickens Wletfonary. 


iv, ix, xvi, xvii; Bk. IT, ch. vili-x, xiii; Bk. IIT, ch. iv, y, wi, ix 
xy, xvi; Bk. IV, ch, iv, v, xi-xlli, xvi.) See Borrrx, Mu. Nico 
DEMUS. 

Wilfer, Miss Lavinia. Youngest of Mr, Wilfer’s children; a 

ary, saucy, and irrepressible girl. (Bk. I, ch. fv, ix; Bk. WJ, che 

i, ix, Bk. U1, ch. iv, xvi; Bk. IV, ch. ¥, xvi.) 

Wilfer, Reginald, called Tux Curncn. A pour 
olerk in the drug-house of Chicksey, Veneering, and Stobbles. 

Bo poor a clurk, though having a limited salary and an unlimited family, that 
the had never yet attained the modest otject of his ambition, which was to wear a 
complete new sult of clothes, hat and boots included, at one time. His biel hak 
‘was brown before ho could afford a coat; his puntaloons were white at the seauss 
‘and knees before he could buy a pair of boots} his boots had worn out before be 
could treat himself to new pantaloons; and, by the time he worked round te 
the hat again, that shining modern article roofedn an ancient ruin of warteus 
periods, 

If the conventional Cherub could ever grow up and be elothed, he might 
bo photographed ns a portralt of Wilfer. 
pearance was a renaon for his being al 
was not put down. A stravger entering his own poor house at about tea a 
clock, P.94., might have been surprised to fad him sitting up to supper. So bey 
Jeh was he in is curves and proportions, that his old schoolmaster, meeting him 
in Cheapside, might have been unable to withatand the temptation of caning 
him on tho spot... « 

‘Ile was shy, and uowilling to own to the name of Reginald, as belng too ae 
pirlng and selfassortiveaname, Tn his slgnatare, be used only theletter It..amd 
imparted what it really stood for to none but chosen friends, under the seal of 
confidence. Out of this, the facetious habit had arisen, fu the nelghbarbood sure 
rounding Mincing Lane, of making Christian names for him of adjectives and 
participles beginning with It, Some of these were more or less sppropriate, as 
Rusty, Retiring, Ruddy, Kound, Ripe, Ridiculous, Ruminative: others derived 
thelr poing from thelr want of application, ae Raging. Hattling, Roaring, Taf 
fish, But his popular name was Rumty, which, kn a moment of inepiration, fad 
been bestowed upon him by » gentleman of convivial habits councoted with the 

beginniug of a social chorus, his leading part fa the exeor 
led this gentleman to the Temple of Fame, and of whieh te 
whole expressive burden ran— 
« Trurnty, iddity, row dow dow, 
Sing toodlely, veedtaly, bow wow wow.”* 
‘Thus he was constantly addressed, even in minor notes on business, as Dest 
Rumty,” In answer to which he sedutely algued himself,“ Yours truly, 1% 
Witter. 
(Bk. I, ch. iv; Bk, If, cb. viii, xiii; Bk. IIL, ch. iv,xvig BE. TV 
ch. iv, ¥, xvi.) 
Wilfer, Mrs. Reginald. His wife; n tall, angular woman, very 
stately and impressive. (Bk. I, ch. iv, ix, xvi; Bk. Il ch, ie 


xill; Bk. IIL, ch. iv, xvi; Bk. IV, ch. ¥, xvi.) 








Our Mutual Pefend 487 


Hor lord being cheruble, she was necessarily majestic, acconting to the prin- 
‘iple which matrimonlally unites contrasts, She was much given to tying up 
her head fn m pocket-handkerehief knotted under herchin. ‘This head-gear, tm 
‘conjunction with « pair of gloves worn within doors, she seemed to consider 
‘as at once a kind of armor against miafortune (invariably assuming tt when ia 
Jow spirits or difficulties), and as a species of full dress. 

Williams, William. A frequenter of the Six Jolly Fellowship 
Porters. (Bk. I. ch. vi; Bk. TI, ch, iii.) 

Wrayburn, Eugene. A briefless barrister, who hates bis profes 
fon. He is a gloomy, indolent, unambitious, and reckless yonng 
man. 

~Ediots tatk," said Eugene, teaning buck. folding his arms, smoking with 
is eyes abut, and speaking slightly through hie nose. “of energy. If there is 
‘8 word in the dictionary, under any letter from A to Z, that I abominate, tt In 

It is such s conventional ition! such parrot gable! What 

‘the deuse! — Ath I to rush out into the street, collar the first man of a wealthy 


that I meet, shake him, and say,‘ Go to law upon the rpot, you 
fog, and retain me, or I'l be the death of you?” Yet that would be en- 
orgy." 











Becoming interested in Lizzie Hexam, he assists her to obtain 
an education; and, though he seeks her society, he does so with 
‘no definite aim in view. He tells his friend, Mortimer Light- 
wood, — 

“There fs no better girl in all this London than Lixaie Hexam, There ts no 
better among my people at home; no better among your people.” 

“ Granted. What follows?” 

“There,” sald Eugene, looking after him dublously as he paced mway to the 
‘other end of the room: “you put me again upon guessing the riddic that 1 
hare given up.” 

“ Eugene, do you design to capture and desert this girl?” 

“My dear fellow, no.” 

“Do you design to marry her ?* 

“My dear fellow, no.” 

“Do you design to pursue her?” 

* My dear fellow, Ldon't design any thing. I hare no design whatever. 1 
‘nm incapable of designs. If I conceived a design, T should speedily abandon 
it, exhausted by the operation." 

“O Bugons, Rogeno!” 

“ My dear Mortimer, not that tone of melancholy reproach, Tentreat. What 
ean I do more than tel! you all I know, and acknowledge my ignorance of all 1 
don’t know? How does that little old song go, which, under pretenes of being 
eheerful, is by far the most Iugubrious 1 ever heard in my life? 

‘Away with melancholy, 
‘Nor dolefal changes ring 
On life and human folly, 
‘Bat merrily, merrily sing, 
Pal lat* 
Don't let mo sing Fal Is, my dear Mortimer (which 4 comparatively unmeam 
ng), but let us sing that we give up guessing the riddle nltogether.” 


__ lla, | 





488 Sde Wickens Dierks 





“Are you fo communication with this girl, Ragene? and ts what these 
people way true?” 
concede both admissions to my honorable and learned frleud” 

‘Then what t# to come of it? What arm you doing? Where are you 
ing?” 

“My dear Mortimer, . . . you are raffled by the want of another cigar. 
Take one of these, I entreat. Light it at mine, which ts in perfect order, 
801 Now do me the justice to observe that I am doing all f own townandy 
selfimprovement, and that you have @ ight thrown oa those household im« 
plements, which, when you only saw them as in « glass darkly, you wore 
hastily—1 must ray hastily—inctined to depreciate, Sensible of my deficien- 
eles, I have surrounded myself with moral influences expresaly meant to pro 
mote the formation of the domestic virtues. ‘To those inilueuces, and to the 
{mproving society of my friends from boyhood, commend me with your best 
wishes." 

“Ah, Eugene!" sald Lightwood aifectionately, now standing near him, #0 
that they both stood In one Uttle cloud of smoke: “I would that you mnswered 
my three questions, What is to come of it? What are you doing? Where 
aro you going?” 

“And my dear Mortimer,” returned Eugene, lightly fhnning away the smoke 
with his hand for the better exposition of his frankness of fhee and manner, 
“ dellevome, I would answer them Instantly If T could. Bat, to enable me to do 
90, I must first have found out the troublesome conundrum long abandoned. 
Here it is; Eugene Wrayburn” Tapping his forehead and breast. “* Riddle- 
me, ridddleme-rée, perhaps you can’t tell me what this may be?? No, upon 
my life f can't. I give it up.” 





Lizzie saves Wrayburn’s life with wonderful energy and ad- 
dress, nurses him tenderly through a long and dangerous sick 
ness, is married to him, and finds that, transformed by the power of 
Jove, he has 8 mine of purpose and which he turns to the 
best account. (Bk. I, ch. ii, ili, x, xii-xiv; Bk, Il, ch. i, tii, vi, 
xi, xiv-xvi; Bk. I, ch. x, xi, xvii; Bk. IV, ch. §, vi, Ix-ul, xvi, 
xvii.) 

Wrayburn, Mrs. Eugene. See Hexam, Lizare. 
Wren, Jenny, See Creaver, Faxxr. 








Our Mutual Prlewr. 489 


PRINCIPAL INCIDENTS. 


BOOK L.--Cuarran I. Jewe Hexam and his daughter find. « body in the Thame; 
Derejects Ridsthood's offer to xhare his tack, —If. Description of the Veneering dinner, 
‘Whore Mortimer Lightwood relates the story of John Harmon and his will, and receives 
‘tho news of the death of the heir by drowning: TIT, Mortimer and Eugene go to Mex 
‘arm's house to muke inquiries about the body, and encounter Mr. Jullus Bandfont; they 
‘sll goto the pollee-station to view the body, and Mr, Hand(ord lays himself open to sur 
plolons Lizale Mexam shows Charley the pictures In the fire; verdict of the coroner's 
Jury. —1¥. John Rokennith enpages lodgings at the house of Mr. Wilfer. ~¥. Silas Were 
tending bis stall at the streetoorer, 1s nocosted by Mr. Bodin, and Mr. Nom engages 
‘him to read "Tho Decline and Fall ;"" Mr. Wee visits Bottin's Bowor, and commences Nix 
readings —VI. Miss Abbey Potterson forbids Rogue Riderhood to visit the Bix Jolly Fel 
lowship Porters; Mint Abbey informe Eizele Mexam of the euspletons against her father, 
‘and counsels her to leave him; Lizele refuses to do this, and Mise Abbey forbids ihm a0 
the houen: Charley Hexam leaves homo for school without bis fither's knowledge, — FIT, 
(Mr. Weeg calls upon Mr. Venus to look after himself; "* Mz. Venus puts alow value on the 
‘amputated leg of Woxs. and also explains to that gentleman the reason of bis low 
apirite. —VIIL. Mr. Boftin visits Lightwood at his office In the Temple, and tnstructs hien 
to offer a reward of £10,000 for the discovery of the murderer of Harmon: he la introduced 
to Rupee Wrayburn; John Mokosmith appltes to Mr. Hon for the sitaation of seoretary, 
—IX. Mr. and Mrs. Boftin in consuitation: decide to“ goin atrong “for faahon, to Invite 
‘Miss Tella Wilfer to live with them, and to adopt an orphan-cbiid and give bin John 
Marmon’s namo; Mr. and Mra Boftin vistt the Rev. Frank Milroy in arareh of an orphan, 
‘and also the Witfers to tender thelr invitation to Miss Bella: Mr. fokemmith's agitation at 
unexpectedly hearing John Marmon’s name —X. The Venoerings plan the taarrtsgo of 
Mr, Alfred Lammmie and Misa Sophronia Akersham, and Twemlow giver away the brid 
Anding they havo beon mutually (mposed upon, they enter tuto a new * marrlage-con 
tract," to deceive the world.—XI. What constitutes “ Podsnappery;"* Mr.and Mra. 
Todsnap give & party on Miss Georgiana's birthday: Mrs. Laromle begins her friendship 
with Georglana.— XI. Ridorhood goes to Lightwood's office, and accuses Hexam of the 
Harmon mander: Lightwood, Wrayburn, and the inspector go to the Fellowship Porters, 
while Ridertiood tracks Wexam.—XIEE. Kagene discovers Lizxi Hexam through the 
window, watching by the fire. —XIV. They find Hexam's boat and his drowned body. 
—XY, John Rokesmith enters upon his duties ax Mr. Botin's secrotary ; Mr. Hoftin places 
‘Woes in chargo of the Bower: Mrs Boffin aces the fhoos of the old man and the children 
Rokonmith objects to meoting Mr. Lightwood.—XVI. Mre. Wortin and the secretary go % 
seo the orphan at Netty Mizden's.—XVII. Charley Itexam asking permimion to goand 
‘00 his slater, his schoolmaster decides to xo with him. 

NOOK U1. —Cwarten 1. Miss Poecher catechtses Mary Anne on her parte of speech 
Charley Hexam and Bradley Headstone make the acquaintance of Mise Jenny Wren, 
who gives them an account of her oocupation; firet meeting of Hradley Headstone aud 
Lizzie Hexam; leaving Lizele, they encounter Weaybura.—{1. Eagenocallaupon Lizzie, 
‘and persuades her to recelve Instruction at his expenso; Jenny" fancies Jenny's fasher 
‘tots home intoxteated, and sho reprimands him. —IIL. Veneering’s frlends " rally rount 
hhim,"' and he is elected to parliament. IV, The Lammles improve the nequalntance of 
‘Misa Georgiana Podsnap, and introduce her to Fascination Fledgeby.— V. Mr, Lamm 
breakfasts with Fledyeby at his rooms and, not liking that gentleman"smanner, threatens 
to pull his nose: Fledgehy apologizes, and resoneliiation follows: Fledgeby goes to the 
house at 8 Mary Axe, where he does basirvm ander the name of Pabsey & Co., and 
meets Riah, bie Jowish agent) Riah shows tim Elxsle Mexam and Jonuy Wren on the 
ousetop.— VL. Hurene and Mortimer, In thel* private chambers, are vialted hy the 
mhovlmaever and Charley Maxam; Hoxam reproachos Kugene for his atteations te 



































aa 





490 She Wickens Pictlo: 





TE. 


‘Tirxle; Eageno exsaperates them by Dis coolness, and gives up Mortimer's riddle, “ What 
te to come of it?" —VIT. Mr. Wegg snd Mr. Venua enter into a "friendly move ™ in te 
fant to the dust-mounds. —VIIL. Miss Bella Wilfer visits ber father's house: Mr. Bottin 
sends her m purse containing £90, and she spends 1t for the bonefit of ber Gsther—TK= 
Sickness of Johuny the adopted orphan; hls removal to the Children’s Tospltal, whore 
do“ rakes hie witl,"*and diet —X. Mr. and Mra. Boma decide to provideror Sloppy. —XIe 
Bradley Headstone uppests to Lizale Hexam to renounce Wrayburn's attentions; Lizzie 
tells Jenny what the Indy "in the hollow dawn by the flare " says of Eugene. —XIT 

Rokoarnith, In disgtise, goes to Rogue Riderhood"s house; hts interviews, firat with Mim 
Pleasant,and then with her ther. —XITL, Rokesmith removes bis disguise, and repeats ta 
Iimacif the circumstances attending the supposed death of John Harmon, and decides 
sii! to retain his amurmod character; as the secretary, he offers himself to Bela, and le 
telooted. —XIV. Betty Higdon develops to the secrotary her plan forrunning mway4 
Rokermith completes his plan of forcing from Riderhood a recantation of his testimony 
‘Ogainst Hexnm, and sends the same to Lizzlox and otty Ht)gden completes her arrange 
ments for running away.—XV. Bradley Headstone, seconded by Charley Hexam, seeks 
Lizzie again, offers himself, and is rejected: Charley's tndignation, and renanetation of 
his slater; Lixeio ts met by Mah, and afterwards by Kazene, who take her home, —XVT- 
‘The Lammies celebrate the arrntversary of thelr wedding by a breakfast; Lightwood eon 
loves hisatory by relating the dissppearance of Lizzie Maxam Mrs. Lammlo begs Twem= 
Jow to warn Podanap against Fiedgeby. 

HOOK T11.—CuarreeL. Blah goes to Fledgeby's chambers; Lammte also calle there, 
and tnfonms Pledgeby that thelr game ts upi Pledgeby cautions Lauale ageinat Ria, 
sxnd trios to draw from Mish the secret of Lizale Hexam’s retreat.—I1. Mahand Jenny 
‘Wren go to tho Six Jolly Fellowship Porters to show Miss Abbey Potterson Riderhood's 
Aeclaration of Hoxam's innocence of the Harmon murder; Miderhoed ts run down by a 
ateamor, and —I11. ts barely saved from drowning. IV. Mr. and Mra. Wilfer celebrate thokt 
‘wedding-anntversary : Bella tells ber father four secrets. —V. Mr, Boffin dofnes Roke- 
smith’s porttion; be begins to collect ™ The Lives of Minors; "* Mra. Lammile Improves 
Bella's acquaintance, and Bella contides to her the eeoret of the secretary's proposal. — 
‘VL. Wogg and Venus, dlacussing thelr friendly move at the Bower, are visited by Mr. Hof 
‘in with a toad of books on tmlsers; Mr. Boffia, with s dark lantern, makes the tour of the 
mounds, the friends watching him; he digs up and carries away x glass bottle — VIL. 
Weer tmparts to Venus the secret of his having found a will of the lateJohn Harmon in 
the pump) they carry this will to Mr. Venas's place to examine #t, and Venus insists 
upon keeping tts they discuss the course to be pursued. — VIII. Betty Higden on her 
travels; ber falnting-At in the markat-place and the second one, in which she Ss relleved 
by Widerhood, serving ax deputy tock-keeper; her dlacorery by Lizzie Mexam, and her 
Acath.—IX. Ligale tells Bella her story, and tho reason of her concealment: Bella and 
*honscrotary on better terms; Fageno Wrayburn triew unsuccessfully to obtain Lizzio's 
address from Jéeany Wren. —X. Mr. Dolls promises to odtatn the direction for bien; 
Engeno informs Ll ghtwood of his being watched by the achoolmaster, and they indulge Int 
tho pleasuresof thechase. — XI. Headstone and Riderhood meet at the Temple gate. — XE. 
Mr.and Mre. Lammie, having broken down in thetr scheme against the Podsnaps, tarm 
theirattention tothe Bonne; Mrs. Lammalo begs Fledgeby to use his tntuence with ah, 
—XIIL. Ho nots accordingly: Fledgehy also intercedes for Twomlow, and opens the 
eyes of Jonny Wren.—XI¥. Venus makes known to Mr. Boma the (rendly move of Sila 
‘Woes: Me. Boffin, conooalod by Venus, hears Weaz"s plan of bringing his nose to the 
grindstone; Interriew betwoen Mra. Yammie and Mr. Boftin. — XV. Mr. Thoffin Menouncos 
Tokeanlth, and sees Bella rightod; Bella's indignation at Mr. Bothn, and her apology to 
he secretary Bella rolingulahes all abe has recetved from the HoMins, and secretly Teaved 
the house.— XVI. She gocs to her father's office, where Rokearnith follows her, whona 
Jore"sho ncw nccopte —XVIT. Mra. Lammle reminds Twomlow of their confidence 
Air. Dolls brings Wraybarn the deslred addrens. 

BOOK LV.—Cnarren f, Eugene in his bost passos the Plashwater Welr MDI Lock 
Lept by Riderhood; he Ie followed by Bradley Headstone tn the disguise of & bargeman 
Bradley witnesses the meoting of Eugene with Lingle Hexam, end retums to she 
‘Riderhood confirms his suspicion that the schoolmaster ix copying his dress tn hile 








Our sau 


‘=I1. Mr. and Mra, Carumlo breakfast with the Bomins: thelr plot ls understood, and their 
Plans frustrated. —I1L, Wegg “drops down" on Mr. Hofin, and, after ahowing him the 
will, sees him home.—I¥. John Rokennith and Bells aro married; how Mrs. Wilfor 
rrcolved the news. —V. Bella's housekeeping. —VI. Xugene and Lizzie moot by eppotat- 
‘ment on the river-bank:: he urges his sult, bat Lizzie finmly declines to exteourage him, 08 
account of the difference of their poxitions in socloty, and bega him to leave her; Eugene, 
‘walking by the river after their loterview, is axsrulted by Headstone, and hia body thrown, 
Into tho waters ho ts rescued by Lixzie.— VIL. Hradley Headstone retums to the locke 
house; he ts dogged by Riderhood, who sees him resume his own dress, and throw hie 
Aisguieo into the river, Charley Mexam upbralds Headstone, and drops his acquaintances 
Rogue Kiderhood catches his Osh. — VIII. Pledgeby attempts to learn from Jenny Wrest 
he placo of Lixaio Hexam’s retreats Fledgeby is caned by Lammle, and bas his wounds 
Grosset by Jenny —1X, Jenny comes to an understinding of Wah's true charac 
Fledgeby sonds Riah Lis discharge: death of Jenny's father; Mortimer desires Jenny’ 
presence at the bedalde of Rugene.—X Jeuny dlvines that Eugene wishes to marry Lizzie. 
XI, Bradley Headstone's meeting with Rov. Mr, Milvey, end agitation at the news of 
zzio’s approaching marriage; the marriage of Eugene and Lizsie.—XIt, Nokeamith 
encounters Lightwood, and Is recognized as Julians Handford: John goes with the in- 
apector of police and Hella to the Fellowship Porters on a matter of identification; Jolin 
‘ukes Bella to thelr new home in London, —XIIL. Mra. Boil relates to Bella the story of 
‘her husband's identity, how she had found him out, and how they had planned to tert her 
Jove for him. — XIV, Weg fiuds Venus in improved spirits, aud appotnta a time for bring 
Ing Lottn tothe grindstone; Were finds his friendly move checkmated, and tx finally di- 
posed of by Sloppy.—XV, Ridorhood visits Headstone In his school: Headstone goos to 
Tiderhood’s lock, and refuses hia demands; finding he cannot get rid of him, he setzes him, 
forees bisa Into thelock, aad both are drowned, — XVI, Mrs. Wilfor, with Mise Lavinis 
‘and Georgo Sampson, visit Bolla in her now home; Arst Intarviow between Sloppy and 
Jonny Wren; Mr. and Mra Weayburn visit Mr. and Mrs John Harmon. —XVIL Mor 
Aimer takes & final look at wostety. 





1 Prienv. 491 











Doctor Marigold. 





‘OnsONNALLY published ns part of the collection of tales entitled “ Doctor Mart 
gold’ Prescriptions," which formed the regular Christmas number of “All the 
‘Year Round" for 1865. ‘Tho story takes its name from » * Cheap Jack," or travel 
Lng auctioneer, who relates In a most natural and entertatuing way the history of 
his fe, 


OHARAOTERS INTRODUCED. 


Joskin, A chuckle-headed country-fellow, who volunteers a bid of 
twopence for Doctor Marigold’s sick child, when he appears with 
her on the foot-board of his cart. 

Marigold, Doctor. The narrator of the story. He describes him- 
self us “a middle-aged man, of a broadish build, in cords, leggings, 
and a sleeved waistcoat, the strings of which is always gone behind,” 
with a white hat, and a shawl round his neck, worn loose and easy. 
He isa “ Cheap Jack,” or itinerant auctioneer, born on the bigh- 
way, and named “ Doctor” out of gratitude and compliment to his 
mother’s accoucheur. He marries, and has one child, a little girl, 
but loses both daughter and wife, and continues his travels alone. 
Coming across a deaf-and-dumb child, however, who, he fancius, 
resembles his lost daughter, he adopts her, and sends her to a school 
for deaf-mutes, to be educated ; but she falls in love with a young 
man who is also deaf and dumb, and he is forced to give her up. 
She sails for China with her husband, but returns, after an absence 
of a few years, bringing with her a little daughter who can both 
hear and talk; and the measure of the Doctor's happiness is ones 
more full. 














Doctor Maclgold. 493 


Marigold, Mrs. Wife of Doctor Marigold; a Suffolk young 
woman whom he courted from the footboard of his cart. 


She wasn'ta bad wife; butshe had a temper. If whe could hare parte? 
with that one article at a sacrifice, I would n't have ewopped hor away in ex 
‘ebange for nay other woman tn England, Not that I ever did #wop her away; 
for we lived together til! she died. and that was thirteen year. Now, my lords 
sand Jadies and gontlefolks all, 1 Il let you into @ secret; though you won't be 
Ueve it, ‘Thirteen year of temper in a palace would try the worst of you; but 
‘thirteen year of temper in a cart would try the best of you. You are kept so 
‘very close to ft ina cart, you see, There ’s thousands of couples among you 
getting on like sweet ile upon a whetstone in houses five and #lx pairs of stairs 
high, that would go to the Divorce Court in cart. Whether the jolting makes 
it worse, T don't undertake to decide; but In a cart It doca come home to you, 
and atick to you. Wiolence In acart is 40 wiolent, and aggrawation in.« cart Is 
so aggrawating, 

Wemight hare had such a pleasant life! A roomy cart, with the large goods 
nung outside, and the bed slung underneath it when on the road, an Iron pot 
and & kettle, w fireplace for the cold weather, a chimney for the smoke, a hang- 
ing-whelf and a cupboard, a dog. and a horse: what more do you want? You 
draw off upon a bit of turf In a green lane or by the roadside; you hobble your 
‘old horse, and turn him grazing; you light your fire upon the ashes of the last 
‘visitors; you cook your stew; and you would n't call the emperor of France 
your father, But have a temper in the cart, flinging language and the hardest 
goods instock at you; and where are you then? Put a name to your feelings. 

My dog knew as well when she was on the turn ax I did. Before she broke 
‘out, he would give a howl, and bolt. Mow he knew It was a mystery to mo: 
but the sure and cortain knowledge of it would wake him up out of his soundest 
sleop; und he would give a howl, and bolt. At such times £ wished I was him. 














At such times, she does not spare her little daughter, but treats 
her with great cruelty. When, however, the child dies, she takes 
to brooding, and tries to drown remorse in liquor; but one day, see 
ing a woman beating a child unmercifully, she stops her ears, runs 
away like a wild thing; and the next day she is found in the river. 

Marigold, Little Sophy. Their daughter; a sweet child, 
shamefully abused by her mother, but dearly loved by her father, 
to whom she is quite devoted. She takes a bad low fever, and dies 
in his arms, while he is convulsing a rustic audience with his jokes 
and witty speeches, 

Marigold, Willum. Doctor Marigold’s father; a “lovely one, in 
his time,” at the “ Cheap Jack " work. 

Mim. A showman, who is a most ferocious swearer, and who has 
avery hoarse voice. He is master to Pickleson, and step-father to 
Sophy, whom he disposes of to Doctor Marigold for half a dozen 
pairs of braces. 

Pickleson, called Ruxatpo pr Vetasco An amiable though 

« 





is The Dickens Mictlonacp. 


timid giant, let out to Mim for exhibition by his mother, who spends 
the wages he noceives. 

‘He was «languid young man, which I attribute to the distance betwixt his 
extremities. He had a little head, and leas fn it; he had weak eyes and weal 
knoes; and altogether you could n't look at him without feeling that thero war 
greatly too much of him both for his joints and his mind. 

Bophy. A deafand-dumb girl adopted by Doctor Marigold after 
the death of his own daughter Sophy. She becomus greatly 
attached to her new father, who loves her fervently in return, and 
is very kind and patient with hor, trying at first to teach her 
himself to read, and then sending her to an institution for deaf 
mutes, to be educated. She subsequently marries a man. afllicted 
like herself; goes abroad with him; and, after an absence of over 
five years, returns home with a little daughter, Doctor Marigold 
thus describes their meeting : — 

Thad started at a real sound; and the sound was on the steps of the cart. 
It was the light, burried tread of m child coming clambering up. ‘That tread of 
‘aohild had once been so familiar to me, that, for half s moment, I believed £ 
‘was a-golng to see a little ghost. 

But the touch of # real child was la{d upon the outer handle of the door, and 
‘the handle turned, and the door opened a little way, and & real child peeped in, 
—a bright little comely girl with large dark eyes. 

Looking full at me, the tiny creature took off her mite of a straw hat, and w= 
quantity of dark carls fell all about her fuce. ‘Then sho opened her Ups, and 
aid In a pretty voice, 

* Grandfather!” 


“Ah, my God!” Tories out. ‘She can speak!” 

“Yes, dear grandfather. And Iam to ask you whether there wns ever any 
‘one that I remind you of?” 

In o moment, Sophy was round my neck, ws well as the child; and her tins 
band was a-wringing my hand with his fuce hid; and we all had to shake our- 
selves together before we could got orer It. Aud when we did begla to get 
‘over it, and I saw the pretty child a-talking, pleased and quick, and «ager aud 
busy, to her mether, fa the signs that I had first taught her mother, the happy 
‘and yot pitying teare fell rolling down my face, 























Barbox Brothers, 


BARBOX BROTHERS AND CO. 


‘Turis story —tor “Barbox Brothers and Co.” is merely s pendant or seqae 
to“ Barbox Brothers "—ts one of a number of tales included in Mugby Juno 
Hon," tho extra Christmas number of “ All the Year Round" for 1908, ‘The her 
of the story, who i also the narrator of it, is at first a clerk in the firm of Barbe 
Brothers, then @ partner, and finally the firm itself. From being a moody, sett 
contained, and unhappy person, made so by the lumbering cares and the accumn- 
tated disappointments of long monotonous years, he Is changed, under cireum- 
Mances that awaken and develop his better nature, {nto a thoroughly cheerful 
man, with oyes and thoughts for others, and hand ever ready to help those who 
need and deserre help; and thus, taking, as {t were, thousands of partners Into 
the solitary firm, he becomes “« Barbox Brothers and Co.” 


OHARAOTERS INTRODUCED. 


Barbox Brothers. See Jackson, Mr. 

Beatrice. A careworn woman, with her hair turned gray, whom 
* Barbox Brothers” had once loved and lost. She is the wife of 
Tresham. See Jackson (Mn.); TResHant 

Tackson, Mr. A former clerk in the public notary and bill-brok- 
ing firm of Barbox Brothers, who, after imperceptibly becoming 
the sole representative of the house, at length retires, and obliter 
ates it from the face of the carth, leaving nothing of it but its name 
‘on two portmantcaus, which he has with him one rainy night when 
he leaves a train at Mugby Junction. 


‘Aman within fire years of fifty, eltber way, who had turned gray too soon, 
ke a neglected fire; s man of pondering habit, brooding carriage of the head, 
495 








196 The Dickens Mictlonary. 


and suppressed Internal voloe; aman with many indications on him of having 
been mnch alone, 

With a bitter recollection of his lonely childhood, of the en- 
forced business, at once distasteful and oppressive, in which the best 
years of his life have been spent, of the double faithlessness of the 
only woman he ever loved and the only friend he ever trusted, his 
birthday, as it annually recurs, serves but to intensify his evar 
present sense of desolation; and he resolves to abandon all thought 
of a fixed home, and to pass the rest of his days in travelling, 
hoping to find relief in a constant change of scene. It is after 
three o'clock of a tempestuous morning, when, acting on a sudden 
impulse, he leaves the train at Mugby Junction. At that black hour, 
he cannot obtain any conveyance to the inn, and willingly accepts 
the invitation of “Lamps,” an employé of the railway company, te 
try the warmth of his little room for a while. He afterwards 
makes the acquaintance of “ Lamps’s” daughter Phebe, a poor bed- 
ridden girl; and their happy disposition, strong mutual affection, 
peaceful lives, modest self-respect, and unaffected interest in those 
around them, teach him a lesson of cheerfulness, contentment, and 
moral responsibility, which the experience of years had failed to 
impart. 

On a visit, one day, to a distant town, he is suddenly accosted by 
a very little girl, who tells him she is lost. He takes her to his 
hotel, und failing to discover who she is, or where she lives, he 
makes arrangements for her staying over night, and amuses him- 
self with her childish prattle, and her enjoyment of her novel situa- 
tion, Tho little one’s mother at last appears, and proves to be the 
woman he had loved, and who had so heartlessly eloped with his 
most trusted friend years before. She tells him that she bas had 
five other children, who are all in their graves; that her husband is 
very ill of a lingering disorder, and that he believes the curse off 
bis old friend rests on the whole household. Will Mr. Jackson 
forgive them? ‘The injured man —now so changed from what he 
once was — responds by taking the child to her father, placing her 
in his arms, and invoking a blessing on her innocent head. “ Live 
and thrive, my pretty baby!" he says, —“live and prosper, and 
become, in time, the mother of other little children, like the angels 
who behold the Father's face.” 

Lamps.” A railway servant employed at Mugby Junction 
father of Phoebe. He is a very hard-working man, being om‘ 





Barboy Brothers. 497 


fourteen, fifteen, or eighteen hours a day, and sometimes even 
twenty-four hours at a time. But he is always on the bright side 
and the good side. He has a daughter who is bed-ridden, and to 
whom he is entirely devoted. Bosides supplying her with books and 
newspapers, he takes to composing comic songs for her amusement, 
and —what is still harder, and at first goes much against his grain 
—to singing them also. 

Phosbe. His daughter; crippled and helpless in consequence of a 
fall in infancy. She supports herself by making Ince, and by teach 
ing a few little children. Notwithstanding her great misfortune, 
she is always contented, always lively, always interested in others, 
of all sorts. She makes the acquaintance of Mr. Jackson (“ Bar- 
box Brothers”); and her pure and gentle life becomes the guiding 
star of his. 

Polly. Daughter of Beatrice and Tresham; a little child found by 
“ Barbox Brothers” in the streets of a large town. See JACKSON, 
Mr. 

Tresham. A former friend of * Barbox Brothers,” who advances 
him in business, and takes him into his private confidence. In return, 
Tresham comes between him and Beatrice (whom “ Barbox Broth- 
érs" loves), and takes her from him. This treachery after a time re~ 
ceives its fitting punishment in poverty, and loss of health and chil- 
dren; but “Barbox Brothers," whose awakened wrath had long 
seemed inappeasable, is made better at last by the discipline and 
experience of life, and generously forgives those who had forced 
him to undergo so sharp a trial. 


The Bon at Mugby. 


‘Tris tale, as originally published, formed the third portion of“ Magby Juso 
Mon," the extra Christmas member of “All the Year Round” for 1808 Ittsa 
satirical description, by a young waiter, of the ordinary Rogtishs rallway refresh. 
ment-room, with ft» eswdart eandwiches, tte state cake and pastry, ite wretched 
tea and coffve, and Its abominable butterscotch, as compared with the exonllent 
provision made tn France for the entertainment and comfort of travellers. ‘The 
Proprictress of the Refreshment-Room at Mugby Junction crosses the Chamnel for 
tho expross purpove of looking into the French method of conducting suet: esta 
Ushments, 

* Potting every thing together," sald our mists, “ French refreshmenting comes to titi 
and. oh, I comes toa nlce total! Firs, estable things to eat, ant Grinkable things ke 
viens" 

A groan from the young ladies, Rep' up by ma. 

“Second, convenience, and eren elegance."* 

Another groan from the young ladies, kep" up by me, 

“Third, moderate charges." 

‘This time « groan from mo, kep’ up by the young Indies, 

Fourth, —and bere," says our minis, "I claim your angriet armpathy,— attention, 
‘eommon etvitity, nay, even politeness t ** : 

Mo and tho young ladles regularly raging mad all together. 

“And Teannnot, in Concluaton,” says our miss, with hor spitaftiliest «ner, “ give you 
® comploter pletur of that dosplesble nation (after what X have related), thas masuring 
you that they would n't bear our constitutional ways and noble Independence at Mughy 
Jonction for @ single month; and that they would turn us to the rightetowt, and pat 
nother ayntem in oUF places as soon as look at us, — perhaps sosoer, for do Bot -eMere 
they have thie "ood taste 10 eare to look wt ua twice.” 


CHARACTERS INTRODUCED. 


Bxekiel. “Tho boy at Mugby;” an attendant in the Refreshment 
Room at Magby Junction, whose proudest boast is, that “It never 
yet refreshed a mortal being.” 

tos 


L 























Ede Boy at Mughy 499 


‘Up ina corner of the Down Refreshment-Room at Mugby Junction, in the 
‘height of twenty-seven croas draughts (I *ve often counted ’em while they brush 
tthe first-class halr twenty-seven ways), behind the bottles, among the glasses, 
‘bounded on the nor'west by the beer, stood pretty fur to the right of m metallio 
‘object that °s at times the tea-nrn, and at times the soup-tureen, nocording to the 
nature of the last twaug imparted to {ts contents, which are the ame ground- 
work, fended off from the traveller by a barrier of stale aponge-cakes erected 
stop of the vounter, and Instly exposed sideways to the glare of our missis's 
tye,—you ask a boy so sitiwated, next time you stop In a hurry at Mugby, 
Sor any thing to drink; you take particular notice that he "ll try to seem not to 
‘near you; that he ‘Il uppear in w absent manner to survey the ine through « 
transparent medium composed of your head and body; and that he woo't serve 
fou as long as you can posalbly bear It. ‘That ’s me, 


Puff, Miss. One of the “young Indies” in the eame Refreshment- 
Room. 

Sniff, Mr. “A regular insignificant cove” employed by the mis 
tress of the Refreshment-Room. 


He looks arter the aawdust department {n a back-room, and ts sometimes, 
‘when we aro very hard put to {t, let behind the counter with a corkscrew, but 
never when it ean be helped; his demeanor towards the public being disgusting 
tervile, How Mrs. Salif erer como x0 fur to lower herself us to marry him, I 
don’t know; bat I suppose he does and T should think he wished he did n't, for 
he leads a awful life, Mrs, Sniff could n’t be much harder with him if he was 
publie. 

Sniff, Mrs, His wift; chief assistant of the mistress of the Re- 
freshment-Room. 


She's the one! She % the one as you ‘Il notice to be always looking another 
‘way from you, when yon look at her. Sho ’s the one with the small walst 
buckled In tight fn front, and with the lace cuff at her wrists, which she 
buts on the edge of the counter before her, and stands asmoothing while the 
cublie foams. This «moothing the cuffs, and looking another way while the 
public foums. Is the last accomplishment taught to the young ladies ax come to 
‘Mugby to be finished by our mlssis; and It" always taught by Mrs. Sniff 

‘When our missis went away upon her journey, Mrs, Sniif was left n charge. 
She did hold the public in check most beautiful. In all my time, I never seo 
half so many cups of tea given without mili to peop.e as wanted It with, nor 
half so many cups of tea with milk given to people as wanted it without. When 
foaming ensued, Mrs, Sniff would say, “Then you Mt better settle it among 
yourselves, and change with one another.” It was a most highly delicious lark. 


Whiff, Miss, An attendant in the Refreshment-Room. 











Two Ghost Stories. 


——— 


1, THE TRIAL FOR MURDER. 


‘Taw first of the two stories reprinted under he above title wat originally pub: 
Mshed ax @ portion of * Dootor Marigold’s Prescriptions,” the extra Christmas 
number of “All the Year Round” for 1865. It was the «ixth of the “ Prescrip: 
tions,” and was labelled “To be takon with a grain of ealt.” Its felgned to hava 
been written by “a Ilterary character” whom the doctor discovers fn travelling 
about the country, and to have been Intonded (as well aa the tales accompanying 
It) for the amusement of his adopted deafand-dumb daughter Sophy. It purports 
to be an account of circumstances preceding and attending a certain noted trial for 
murder, The narrator, who is summoned to serve on the Jury, is haunted, frou 
the time he first hears of the deed until the close of the trial, by the apparition 
ofthe murdered man, Though seen by no one else, it mingles with the Jory and 
the officers of the court, looks at the judge's notes over his shoulder, confronts tha 
defendant's witnesses, and stands at the elbow of the counsel, invariably caasing 
some trepidation or disturbance on the part of each, and, a It wore, dambly and 
darkly overshadowing thelr minds. 

Pinally the Jury retamed tnto court at ten minates past twelve. ‘The muntered max 
‘tt that timo stood direotly apposite the Jary-box, on the other wide of the court. ART took 
my place, his eyes rented on me with great attention: he seemed antiated, and slowly 
shook great gray veil, which he carried on his arm for the frst time, over his head and 
whole form. As I gave in our verdict, “Gullty,” the vell collapsed, all was gone, and his 
place was empty. 

Bealdes those abore mentioned (the names of none of whom are given), the 
following are the only 





CHARACTERS INTRODUCED, 


Derrick, John. Valet to the haunted juryman. 
Harker, Mr. An officer in charge of the jury, and sworn to hald 
them in safe-keeping. 
00 











Swo Ghout Stories. bot 


IL THE SIGNAL-MAN, 


‘Tax second Ghost Story ts sn account of an incident oocurring on one of the 
branch Ines leading from Mugby Junction. It forms the fourth division of the 
‘extra Christmas number bearing that name, which was published {n 1806, tn con 
nection with All the Year Round." It Is supposed to be related by “ Barbox 
Brothers,” who makes a careful study of the Junction and its victaity, and eommunt- 
cates tc hls poor bedridden friend Phmbe the substance of what he sees, hears, oF 
otherwise picks upon thematn Iine and Its fiye branches, Exploring Branch Line 
No. 1, he visite a aignal-man who Ja stationed in a deep cutting near the entrance 
of a tunnel, Ie ts a cool, vigilant, clear-headed, and educated man, who had 
been, when young, a student of natural history, and had attended lectures, but had 
run wild, misused his opportunities, gone down, and never risen again. Notwith: 
standing his tntelligence, and hts freedom from any taint of superstition, he ts cous 
tinually haunted by astrange apparition, which, just before any Mural accident, stands 
ty the red light at the mouth of the tunnel, and with one hand over Ite eye, ax 
Af to abut out the frightful scene about to take place, cries Ffotloa! Below there! 
Look out! For God's ake, clear the way!" ‘Twice has this occurred, and been 
followed by accident and death; and now the figure has been seen and heard 
again. The visitor goes away. hardly knowing how he ought to act in view of bis 
knowledge of the man’s state of mind; but he finally revolves to offer to acoom- 
pany him to awive medical practitioner, and to take his opinion. 





Next ovening was a lovely evening, and T walked out early to onjoy tt. Tho mun was 
‘not yet quite down when I traversed the field-path near the top of the deep cutting. £ 
‘would extend my walk for an hour, I sald to myself,—half an hour on, and halfan hour 
‘back,—and it would then be time to go to my signal-man's box. 

Before parvulag my stroll, I stepped to the beink, and mechanteally looked down from 
the point from which K had first woon him, T cannot deworibe tho thrill that sstzed pom 
‘te, when, close at the mouth of the tunnel, I saw the appearance of a man, with his left 
Aleove across his eyes, passionately waving his right arm, 

The nameless horror that oppremed mo pamed in a moment; for fa a moment I exw 
that this appearance of & man was a man indecd, and that there was a Little group of 
cher men, standing at a short distance, to whom he seemed to be reboarstiy the gesture 
he made. Tho dangertight was not yet lighted. Against its shafi, a littie low but, ene 
tirely new to me, had been made of some wooden supports and (srpaulin, It looked ne 
‘oigier than a bod. 

‘With an trroniatiblo senso that something was wrong,—with « flashing, self-ropronch~ 
ful fear that fxtal mischief isd come of my leaving the man there and cauxing no one to 
bo sent to overlook or correct what he did,—J descended the notebed path with all whe 
speed T could make. 

™ What {a the matter?” T asked the men, 

» Signalman Killed thls morning, als." 








__, 





Ede Wickens Olctlonary. 









502 


“Not the man belonging to that box? 
“Yom ne” | 
“Not the man I kaow? * ; 

“ You will recognize him, alr, if you Knew him," ald the man who spske for tt 
others, solemnly uncovering bis own head, and raising an end of the tarpauliny “for B 
{ce Is quits composed." i 

“Ohi how did this bappen? how did this happen?" T asked, tursing from one | 
‘ssocher, as the butclosed in again. 

“Ho was cut down by an engine, alr, No man In England knew his work bettet 
Dut, somehow, he was not clear of the outer rail, Ts was Just wt road day. He ha 
track the Light, and had the lamp iu bis hand. As the engine came out of the tanne 
‘is back was towards her, and she cut him down. ‘That man drove her, and was showia 
Row ithappened. Show the gentleman, Tom." . . « 

“Coming round tho eurve in the tannel, sir,” ho auld," saw him af the end, 1k 
fs If T asw him down % perepectivegians There was no time to check spend: nd 
new him to be vory careful, As he didn't seem to take hood of the whistle, f abut | 
‘¢0f when we were running down upon him, and called to him as loud we E eould eal." 

™ What did you may #"* 

"-Teald, ‘Below there! Look outf Look out! For God's sake, clear the way f°" 

Ttarted. 

“ANI {twas a dreadful time, alr. I never left off eailling to him. I put thie an 
Defore my eyes not to wee} And I waved thie arm to the inst: but It was x0 men” 





Holitan Romance. 





‘Tris exquisitely humorous story was written expressly for “Our Young 
Folks" (a Juvenile magazine Issued by the publishers of this volume), {a which 
J appeared during the months of January, March, April, and May, 1808, INustrated 
‘with four full-page woodcuts from designs by John Gilbert. It was also brought 
out In England, in Mr. Dickens's own periodical, “AN the Year Round,” in Jan- 
uary, February, and March of the same year. ‘The story is in four parts, of which 
the first, supposed to be written by a young gentleman of eight yeats of age, ex- 
plains “how what comes ufter came to be written.” It contains wn ncoount of two 
‘small boys, who “ make believe ” that they are married to two little girls, and that 
they are all high and mighty pervonages, with relatives and friends of the same 
stamp. Finding, however, that the“ grown-up people won't do what they ought 
to do,” nod refuse to allow thelr claims, they agree, that, during the approaching 
holidays, they will “educate the grown-up people” by hinting to them how things 
ought to be, yelling their meaning under s mask of romance. They accordingly 
write three amusingly absurd stories, in which the children act the part of men 
snd women, while the men and women are treated as if they were children. In 
relation to this charming piece of nonsense, Br. Dickens thus wrote to his frlend 
nd publisher, Mr. James T. Fields: — 

“Thope the Americans will see the Joke of * Holiday Romance.” ‘The writing nooms to 
mo #0 Like children's, that dull folks (on any side of any water) might, perhaps, rate it no- 
tordingly. Ixhould like to be beside you when you read It, and particularly * The Pirate 8 
‘tory.’ It made me laugh to that extent, that my people here thought 1 was out of -ay 
‘wits, until I gave It to them to read, when they did ikewise."* 


CHARACTERS INTRODUCED. 
Alicia, Princess, ‘The heroine of Miss Alice Rainbird’s romance; 


eldest child of King Watkins tho First, and god-daughter of the 
good fairy Grandmatina, who gives her a magic fth-bone, which 
SOL 








504 


‘ean only o¢ used once, but which is warranted to bring her, that 
‘once, whatever she wishes for, provided she wishes for it at the 
right time. The princess is a notable housewife, and is also avery 
motherly girl, taking sole charge of her eighteen brothers and six 
ters, She has great good sense, and-refrains from ating her magie 
Present until some great exigency shall arise. But when, at last, 
her father informs her that his money is all gone, and that he has 
no means of getting any more, though he has tried very hard, and 
has tried all ways, she thinks the right time must have come for 
testing the virtue of her god-mother’s gift, and she therefore wishes 
it were quarter-day; and immediately it is quarter-day, and the 
king’s quarter's salary comes rattling down the chimney, More- 
over, her god-mother appears, changes the coarse attire of the 
princess into the splendid raiment of a bride, and whisks her off to. 
church, whore she is married to Prince Cerfainpersonio, after which 
there is a magnificent wedding-feast. 

‘When Grandmnrinn had drunk herlove to the young couple, and Prinoe 
Certainpersonio had made a speech, and everybody lind oried, * Hip, hip, hip, 
hurrah!" Grandmarina announced to the king and queen, that, fn future, thers 
Would beelght quarter days In every your, except in leap-yenr, when there would 
be ten. She then turned to Certalapersonio and Alicia, and sald, “ My dears, 
you will have thirty-five children, and they will all be good and beautiful 
Seventeen of your children will be boys, and eighteen will be girls, ‘The 
hair of the whole of yourchildren willeurl naturally. ‘They will never have the 
measles, and will have recovered from the whooplig-cough before being born” 

Alicumpaine, Mrs, One of the characters in Miss Nettie Ashe 
ford’s romance; a little friend of Mr. and Mrs. Orange, whom she 
invites toa small juvenile party” of grown-up people, See Asn 
rorp, Miss Nerrre. 

Ashford, Miss Nettie. A child of seven; pretended bride of 
William Tinkling, Esquire (aged eight), and author of @ romance, 
the scene of which is laid in “a most delightful country to live im,” 
where “the grown-up people are obliged to obey the children, and 
are never allowed to sit up to supper, except on their birthdays” 
See Tixxtixa, WitcraM, Esquire. 

Black, Mrs. One of Mrs, Lemon's pupils in Miss Nettio Ash- 
ford’s romance, She is a grown-up cbild, who is always at play, 
or gadding about and spoiling her clothes, besides being “as pert 
and as flouncing minx as ever you met with in all your days.” 

Boldheart, Captain. Hero of Master Robin Redforth’s romance 
He is master of the schooner “Beauty,” and greatly distinguishes 
lumself by various valiant exploits, notably his capture of “The 


Bichens Mictlonarp. 





Mollvay Romance 505 


Scorpion,” commanded by an old enemy, the Latin-grammar Mas 
ter, whom he turns adrift inan open boat, with two ours, a compass, 
4 bottle of rum, a small cask of water, a piece of pork, » bag of 
biscuit, and a Latin grammar. He afterwards finds him on a 
lonely island, and rescues him from the hands of the natives, who 
are cannibals; but, when he subsequently discovers him plotting to 
give him up to the master of another vessel (“ The Family"), he 
incontinently hangs the traitor at the yard-arm. 

Boozey, William. One of the crew of “The Beauty,” reseved 
from drowning by Captain Boldheart, and ever afterwards his de- 
voted friend. 

Brown. A vicious (grown-up) boy, greedy, and troubled with the 
gout, in Miss Nettie Ashford’s romance. See Agnronp, Miss 
Nettie. 

Certainpersonio, Prince. A young gentleman who becomes the 
husband of the Princess Alicia, See Anrcra, Parxcrss. 

Drowvey, Miss. A schoolmistress in partnership with Miss 
Grimmer. The opinion of their pupils is divided as to “which 
is the greatest beast.” 

Grandmarina, Fairy. God-mother of the Princess Alicia. See 
Atiora, Princess. 

Grimmer, Miss. A schoolmistress. See Drowvey, Miss. 

Latin-Grammar Master, The. An old teacher and enemy of 
Captain Boldheart. See Borpneanr. 

Lemon, Mrs. The proprietress of a Preparatory Schoo! for grown- 
up pupils, who figures in Miss Netti Ashford’s romance. See Asn- 
vorp, Miss Nerrim. 

Orange, Mr. James, The “husband” of Mrs, Orange. 

Orange, Mrs, A character in Miss Nettio Ashford'’s romance; 
“a truly sweet young creature,” who has the misfortune to be 
sadly plagued by a numerous family of grown-up “ children,” include 
ing two parents, two intithate friends of theirs, one god-father, two 
god-mothers, and an aunt. See Astrorp, Miss Nerrm. 

Peggy. Lord-chamberlain at the court of King Watkins the First, 
in Miss Alice Rainbird’s romance. 

Pickles. A fishmonger in th same story. 

Rainbird, Alice. The “bride” of Robin Redforth, and the 
author of the romance of which the Princess Alicia is the heroine, 
See Arica (PRixcras), and Reprorta (Ligorexaxt-Coxo- 
wet Ronr), 

es 





606 Ede Dickens Dictlonary. 


Redforth, Lieutenant-Colonel Robin. Cousin to William 
Tinkling, Esquire. He is a young gentleman aged nine, whe 
assumes the part of a pirate, and affects to be peculiarly lawless 
and blood-thirsty. The romance which contains the story of Cap- 
tain Boldheart is from his pen, See Bo-pusant, Cartan. 

Tinkling, William, Esquire, Author of the introductory por 
tion of the romance, and editor of the other portions. He is eight 
years old; and to him Miss Nettie Ashford is “married " in the right- 
hand closet in the corner of the dancing-school where they firet 
met, witha ring (a green one) from Wilkingwater’s toy-shop. His 
bride, and the bride of his friend, Lieutenant-Colonel Robin Red- 
forth, being in captivity at the school of Drowvey and Grimmer, 
the two young gentlemen resolve to cut them out on a Wednesday 
when walking two and two. The plan fails, however; and Tink- 
ling’s bride brands him as a coward. He demands «court-martial, 
which is granted and assembles ; the Emperor of France, the Presi= 
dent of the United States, and a certain admiral, being among the 
members of it. The verdict of “not guilty” ison the point of being 
rendered, when an unlooked-for event disturbs the general re- 
joicing. ‘This is no other than the Emperor of France’s aunt eatch- 
ing hold of his hair, ‘The proceedings abruptly terminate, and the 
court tumultuously dissolves. 

Tom. Cousin to Captain Boldheart; a boy remarkable for bis 
cheekiness and unmannerliness. 

‘Watkins the First, King. A character in Miss Alice Rain- 
bird’s romance; the manliest of his sex, and husband of a queen 
who is the loveliest of hers. 

‘They had nineteen children, and were always having more, Seventeen of 
these children took care of the baby; and Alicia, the eldest, took care of them 
all. Tholr ages varied from seven years to seven months, 

See Auicra, Parxcess. 

White. A palo bald child (a grown-up one) with red whiskers 

who is a pupil in Mrs, Lemon’s Preparatory School. 








George Silverman's Cxplanation. 





‘Tus tale was written expressly for “The Atlantic Monthly,” and was published 
th that magazine in the months of January, February, and March, 1868, It wae 
republished, the same year, in “All the Year Round.” 


“ OHARAOTERS INTRODUCED. 


Fareway, Adelina. Pupil of George Silverman, who falls in 
love with her, and finds his love reciprocated, but resigns her to 
another out of pure self-depreciation and unworldliness, 

Fareway, Lady. Her mother; widow of the late Sir Gaston 
Fareway, baronet; a penurious and managing woman, handsome, 
well-preserved, of somewhat large stature, with a steady glare in 
her great round eyes. She presents Mr, George Silverman to a 
living of two hundred a year, in North Devonshire, but imposes the 
condition that he shall help her with her correspondence, accounts, 
and various little things of that kind, and that he shall gratuitously 
direct her daughter’s studies. 

Fareway, Mr. Her second son; a young gentleman of abilitios 
much above the average, but idle and luxurious, who for a time 
reads with Mr. Silverman. 

Gimblet, Brother. An elderly drysalter; a man with a erabbed 
face, a lange dog’s-eared sbirt-collar, and a spotted blue neckerchief, 
reaching up behind to the crown of his head. He is an expounder 
in Brother Hawkyard’s congregation. 

Hawkyard, Mr. Verity, of West Bromwich. George Silver 
man’s guardian or patron; a yellow-faced, peak-nosed man, who 
is an exhorter in a congregation of an obscure denorination, among 

wr 





608 Fhe Wickens Wietlonary. 


whom he is ealled Brother Hawkyard. He is given to boasting, 
and has a habit of confirming himself in a parenthesis, as if, know- 
ing himself, he doubted his own word. ‘Thus he tells his ward, — 


“Tama servant of the Lord, George, and I have beon a good servant to hilm 
{1 have) these five and thirty yearn: the Lord haa had @ good servant tn me, 
‘snd he knows it.” 

From the first [says George Silverman), I could not Itke this farniiiar 
knowledge of the ways of the sublime, luscrutable Almighty, on Brother 
‘Hawkynrd’s part. As I grew a litte wiser, and #till n little wiser, I lked 
i lets and less. . . . Before the knowledge became forced upon me, that, 
outnde thelr place of meeting, these brothers and elaters were no better 
than the rest of the human family, but ou the whole were, to put the case mildy, 
‘as bad as mont, in respect of giving short welght in thefr shops, and not spealke 
Ing the truth. —T aay, before this knowledge became forced upon mo, thelr prov 
ix addresses, thelr inordinate coneelt, thelr daring {ignormnee, thelr Investment 
of the Supreme Ruler of heaven and earth with their own miserable mean 
‘nesses and littlenesses, greatly shocked me. 


Bilverman, George. Tho narrator of the story; bass a cellar 
in Preston. He thus describes his parents :— 


‘Mother hud the gripo and clutch of poverty upon her fhee, upon her figure, 
‘and, not least of all, upon her voice. Her sharp and high-pitched words were 
‘aqueesed out of her, ax by the compression of bony fingers on w leathern baggy 
and she had o way of roiling her eyes about and about the cellar, as she scolded, 
that was gaunt and hungry. Father, with his shoulders rounded, would sit 
it the empty grate, until she would pluek: 
the stool from under lim, aod bid hhn go bring some money home. ‘Then he 
‘would dismally ascend the steps; and I, holding my ragged shirt and trousers 
together with a hand (ty only braces), would felnt and dodge from mother's 
porsuing grasp at my hair, 

“4 worldly little dovit” was mother's usual name for me. Whether I erted 
for that Twas in the dark, oF for that {t was cold, of for that Twas hungey; or 
whothor I squeezed myself into a warm corner when there was a fire, or mto 
‘voraciously when there was food,—she would still say, *“O yon worldly little 
devil!” And tho sting of st was, that T quite well kuew myself to be a worldly 
Uttle devil; worldly ax to wanting to be honsed and warmed; worldly mx to 
wanting to be fed; worldly as to the greed with which I inwardly compared haw 
much I got of those good things with how much father and mother got, when, 
rarely, thore good things were gotng, 


While still a small child, George loses his father and mother, who 
die miserably of a fever ; is taken from the cellar in a halfstarved, 
state; and is handed over by the authorities to Brother Hawkyard, 
who, a8 it seems, has accepted a trust in behalf of the boy from a 
rich grandfather who has just died at Birmingham, After 
disinfected, comfortably fod, and furnished with new clothes, ho 
sent to an old farm-house at Hoghton Towers, where he remains for 
a considerable timo, and where he begins to form a shy disposition 














George Alloecmau's Brplanatlon, 509 


to be of a timidly silent character under misconstruction, to have 
an inexpressible and even a morbid dread of becoming sundid or 
worldly. He is afterwards put to school, told to work his way, and, 
‘as time goes on, becomes a Foundation Boy on a good foundation, 
and is preached at on Sundays by Brother Hawkyard and other ex- 
pounders of the same kidney. Working still harder, he nt last obtains 
scholarship at Cambridge, where he lives a secladed lift, and studies 
diligently. Knowing himself to be “unfit Sor the noisier stir of 
social existence,” he applies his mind to the clerical profession, and 
at laut is presented by Lady Fareway to a living worth two hun- 
dred a year, Adelina, the only daughter of Lady Fareway, pur- 
sues her studies under his direction; and a strong but undeclared 
affection springs up between them. But the young clergyman, 
conscious that her family and fortune place him far beneath her, 
and feeling that her merits are far greater than his, resolves upon. 
self-sacrifice, and quictly sets to work to turn the current of her 
love into another channel. For this purpose, he introduces to her 
Mr. Granville Wharton, another pupil of his, and contrives, in 
various ways, to interest them in each other. The object is accom- 
plished, and, in little more than a year, they eowe before him, hand 
in hand, and ask to be united in marriage, As they are both of 
age, and as the young lady has come into possession of a fortune in 
her own right, he does not hesitate to do so; but the conse- 
quences to himself are disastrous. Lady Pareway has had am- 
bitious projects for her daughter, and indignantly charges George 
Silverman with taking a percentage upon Adelina’s fortune as 
a bribe for putting Mr. Wharton in possession of it, With the 
old ery of,“ You worldly wretch!" she demands that he should 
resign his living, contumeliously dismisses bim from her presence, 
and pursues him for many years with bitter animosity. But Ade- 
lina and her husband stand by him, and at length he obtains a 
colloge-living in a sequestered place, lives down tho suspicions 
and calumnies that have dogged his steps, and pens his * Expla- 
aation.” 

Bylvia. A girl at the farm-house of Hoghton Towers, where 
George Silverman is placed by Mr. Hawkyard, after the death of 
his father and mother, 

Wharton, Mr. Granville. Pupil of George Silverman, and 
married by him to Adelina Fareway. 

“ 


New Uncommercial Samp) 


(Postisuso or ALL Tas Year ROUND, 1x 1600.) 


— 





A SMALL STAR IN THE EAST. 


John. A boiler-maker, living in tho 
Stepney, who obtains employment but fitfully and 
forced to live on the work of his wift. 

Poodles, A comical mongrel dog, found starving at 
the “East London Children’s Hospital,” and taken in 
since which he has made it his home, On bis neck 
collar presented him by an admirer of his mental en 
bearing the legend, “ Judge not Poodles by external a] 


A LITTLE DINNER IN AN HOUR. 
Bullfinch, A gentleman, who, having occasion to go to th 
resort of Namelesston with a friend for the transaction 
business, proposes that they should dine at the it 
accordingly drive to that house, and order a little diner, 
to be ready punctually in one hour, ‘They return prom 


the conclusion that no such ill-terved, ill-appointed, il 
nasty little dinner could be got for the money snywhere 
the i 





Netw Ancommerclal Samples, Daa 


Limeelf in all sorts of aspects and under all kinds of disguises; so 
named from an all-knowing tutor in Thomas Day's juvenile story 
of “ Sandford and Merton.” 


ON AN AMATEUR BEAT. 


Poodles. A mongrel dog attached to the “ East London Children’s 
Hospital.” See“ A Small Star in the East.” 


T find him making the round of the beds, like @ house-surgeon, attended by 
another dog, —a friend, — who appears to trot about with him in the character 
‘of his pupll-dresser, Poodies ix anxious to make me known to « pretty little 
girl, looking wonderfully healthy, who has had a leg taken off for cancer of the 
knee, “A difficult operation,” Poodles Intimates, wagging his tall on the coun- 
terpano, “but perfectly successful, as you see, dear sir” ‘The patient, pasting 
Poodles, adds, with a amile, “The leg was so much trouble to me, that T am glad 
it's gone.” I never saw any thing in doggery finer than the deportment of 
Yoodles when another little girl opens her mouth to show  pecullar enlarge- 
‘ment of the tongue. Poodles (at that time on # table, to be on a level with the 
occasion) Jooks wt the tongue (with his own sympathetically out) #0 very 
gravely and knowingly, that I feel inclined to put my hand on my walstoost 
poeket, and give him a guines, wrapped in paper, 








The Mystery of Edwin Drood. 





AB | who shall Lift that wand of magie power, 
- And the loot claw regain > 
‘The unfinished window in Aladdin's tower 
‘Pufintshed must remain. Toxoraniow, 


‘Tux first number of this work, which closes the sertes of Dickens's novels, was 
fasued by Messrs, Chapman and Hall, on the Ist of April, 1870, with two {tins 
trations on wood from drawings by S. [.. Fildes. ‘The story was to be completed 
in twelve monthly parts; but the third part had been published only a few days 
when death stopped the writer's hand forever. ‘Three additional numbers, how= 
ever, were left in manuscript, making just one-half of tho entire story. 

‘What Dickens wrote of Thackeray's unfinished novel (“Denis Duval”) ts true, 
also, of his own, —that Its “very and. . . in ft evidences of matared designs 
never to be accomplished ; of intentions begun to be executed, and destined never 
to be completed; of careful proparation for long roads of thought that he was 
never to traverse, and for shining gonls that he wns never to reach.” “In respect 
of earnest feeling,” he added, fur-scetng purpose, character, incident, and a eer 
tain loving ploturesqueness blending the whole, I belleve It to be much the bert 
of all bis works.” If this high praise cannot be awarded to“EAwin Drood,” « 
place among the beat of his works may at least be neslgned to It. Yet It eannot 
be said of Dickens, nx he anid of Thackeray, “that he was in the healthiest vigor 
of his powers when he wrought on this last labor: on the contrary, he eom= 
plained that his thoughts did not flow #0 freely ax formerly, and that ovmpoaltion 
was a task which tired and worried him. Besides this, he was troubled by = fear, 
that, In the early numbers, he had too plainly foreshadowed the conclusion of the 
story. Thero was, however, fio mpproach to completeness {n the fmgment aa he 
eft it; and it was rumored that the tale would be uixhed by Mr. Wilkie Collin, 
until Messrs, Chapman and Hall announced, in» letter to “The Times” that no 
other writer could be permitted by them to complete It. Stil a sequel has been 
published in the United States, without thelr authorization, or that of Mr, k- 
‘en's family, entitled “John Jaspers Seeret.” The writers (Mr. Henry 

ou 














Ede Mystery of Sowin Droov. 513 


‘and others) nseert, that hints had been unwittingly supplfed by Mr. Dickens for 
|& mach closer estimate of the bearings of thove portions remaining anwrltten 
than he could probably have believed while in life; and they elaim to have enr- 
ried out, however feebly, whnt they have fully traced and identified as the inten: 
tion of the writer, every Intrinsio and extrinsto fact and int belng earefully com 
sidered. . 








CHARACTERS INTRODUCED. 


Buzzard, Mr. Clerk to Mr. Grewgious, over whom he possesses a 
strange power. He is a pale, puffy-fuced, dark-haired person of 
thirty, with big, dark eyes wholly wanting in lustre, and with a dis- 
satisfied, doughy complexion, that seems to ask to be sent to the 
baker’s, The secret of his influence over Mr. Grewgious fs 
thus explained by that gentleman in a conversation he has with 
Miss Rosa Bui 

“We were peaking of Mr. Baszard, ... What do you think Mr. Baxeard has 
dono?” 

“Oh. dear” eried Rosa, drawing her chair a ttle nearer, and her mind 
reverting to Jasper, — “nothing dreadful, T hope?" 

“Ho has written » play," sald Mr. Grewglous in # solemn whisper, —“ a 
tragedy. 

Koan seemed much relieved. 

“ And nobody,” pursued Mr. Grewgious in the same tone, 
account whatever, of bringing it out.” 

Rosa looked reflective, and nodded her head slowly, as who should 4a 
things are, and why are they?” 

“Now, you know,” said Mr. Growgious, “ J could n’t write a play.” 

“Nota bad one, sir?” asked Rosa innocently, with her eyebrows again in 
action. 

“No. If was under sentence of decapitation, and was about to be Instantly 
decapitated, and an expreas arrived with « pardon for the condemned convict 
Grewgious, if he wrote a play, I should be under the necessity of reauming the 
Dlock, and begging the excoutioner to proceed to extremities, moaning,” sald 
Mr. Growglous, passing his hand under bis chin, “the singular number, and 
‘this extremity.” 

Rosa appeared to consider what she would do ff the awkward supposititious 
ease were hors. 

“Consequently,” sald Mr. Growglous, “ Mr. Bazzard would have a sense of 
my Inforlority to himself under any circumstances; bat when I am his master, 
you know, the caso is greatly aggravated.” 

Mr, Growgtous shook ‘is hend seriously, as if he felt the offence to be a little 
too much, though of his own committing 

How came you to be lit master. air?" asked Rosa, 

“ A question that naturally follows," sald Mr. Grewgious, Let Ye talk, Mr. 
Raszard’s futher, being a Norfolk farmer would have furious'y twid about him 

















‘will hear, on any 


“Sach 














‘with « fall, » pitchfork, and every seteien lee eee 





Che Mickens Mlctlonacg. 


put him tn peril of starvation, and that he was not formed for If." 

For pursuing his genius, sir?” 

© No, my dear,” sald Mr. Grewgious,—"for starvation. It was tmpossible te 
‘deny tho potition that Mr. Bazzard was not formed to be starved; and Mr. Bax 
ard then polnted out that it was desirable that I shoold stand between him 
sand a fate so perfectly unsuited to his formation. In that way, Mr, Baxzerd 
Decame my clerk, and he feels {t vory much." 

“Tam glad he ts grateful," «aid Rosa, 

“T did n't quite mean that, my dear. Tmean that ho feels the tegradation, 
There are some other geniuses that Mr. Baxzard has beoome noquainted with, 
who have also written tragedies, which, likewiso, nobody will, on any account 
‘whatever, hoar of bringing out; and these cholee spirits dedicate thelr plays to 
‘one another in a highly panegyrical manner. Mr. Bazxard has been the sub: 
Ject of ono of these dedications, Now, you know, Znever had a play dedicated 
tome!” 

Towa looked at him as if she would have liked him to be the recipient of = 
thousand dedications. 

“Which again, naturally, rubs against the grain of Mr. Buzzard," sald Mr. 
Grewglous. “Mo ts vory short with me somotimes, wnd then £ feel that be ts 
meditating, ‘This blockhend is my master!—n follow who could w% write = 
tragedy on pain of death, and who will never have one dedicated to him with 
the most complimentary congratulations on the high position he has taken ia 
the eyes of posterity.’ Very trying, very trying. However, in glring him 
directions, 1 reflect beforehand, * Perhaps he may not like this,! or, * He might 
take it {Il If I asked that;* and 60 we get on very well, — indeed, better tha 
Teould have expected.” 

“Ys the tragedy named, slr?” asked Rora, 

“ Striotly between ourselves,” answered Mr. Grewglous, “It has a dreadfully 
‘appropriate name. It {a called ‘The Thorn of Anxiety’ But Mr. Boxzrd 
Hopes, nnd E hope, that It will como out wt last.” 


(Ch, xi, xx.) 

Billickin, Mra. A widowed cousin of Mr. Bazzard’s, who lets 
furnished lodgings in Southampton Street, Bloomsbury Square. 
Personal faintness and an overpowering personal candor are the 
distinguishing features of her organization. (Ch: xxii, 

With this lady Mr. Grewgious obtains rooms for his ward, Mise 
Rosa Bud. Having concluded the bargain, he writes and signs = 
few lines of agreement, and requests Mrs. Billickin to put her #igge 
nature to the document also, “ Christian and surname” in full. 


“Mr, Grewglous." said Mre. Billickin In a new barst of candor ‘no, sie + 
You must excuse the Christian name.” 
Mr. Grewgious stared at her. 
The doorplate is used ws x protection,” sald Mrs. Billickin, “and wets 
such; and go from it I will not” 
Mr. Growgious stared at Ross, 











The Mystery of Gowln Droov. 515 


“No, Mr. Grewgious, you mast exeuse me. So long as thiy "ouse li kuown fn- 
definite as Billlokin's, and so long as It le adoubt wich tho riif-ralt where Billiekin 
may be hidin’ near the stroet-door or down the alry, wnd what bia weight and 
sine, so long f foel safe. But commit myself tow solitary female statement — 
no, miss! Nor would you for a moment wish," sald Mrs. Billickin, with a trong 
sense of injury, “to take that advantage of your sex, if you wax not brought to 
At by Inconsldernte example,’ 

Tosa, reddcuing us if obe had made some disgraceful attempt fo overreach 
the good Indy, besought Mr. Grewgious to rest content with any algnature; 
snd accordingly) {na baronial way, the slgn-manual BiLtacktx got appended 
to the document. 


Bud, Miss Rosa, called Rosesup. A wonderfully pretty, ehild- 
ish, and whimsical young lady, who is an orphan, and the ward of 
Mr. Grewgious. While yet a mere child, she is betrothed to Edwin 
Drood; her father and his having been very dear and firm and fist 
friends, and desiring that their only children should be to ono 
another even more than they themselves had been to one another. 
But, as Rosa and Edwin grow up, they find that they are not truly 
happy in their engagement, and that each resonts being thus mar- 
ried by anticipation. ‘They accordingly agrce to break off the 
engagement, and to “change to brother and sister” thenceforth. 
Shortly after this event, Edwin Drood disappears, and is supposed 
to have been murdered. Had Mr. Dickens lived to complete the 
story, it is not unlikely that Rosa would have been married to Mr. 
Tartar. (Ch. Sii, vii, ix, xiii, xix-xxii.) See Tartan, Mr. 

China Shepherdess, The. See Crisrankir, Mrs. 

Crisparkle, The Reverend Septimus. One of the minor 
canons of Cloisterham Cathedral; a model clergyman, and a true 
Christian gentleman. (Ch. ii, vi-viii, x, xii, xiv-xvii, xxi-xxili.) 

Mr, Crisparkle, minor canon, fair and rory, and perpetually pitching himself 
hicad foremost into all the deep running water in the surrounding eoantry; Mr. 
Crivparkle, minor canon, early riser, musical, classical, cheerful, kind, good- 
natured, social, contented, and boy-tike; Mr. Crixparkle, minor canon and good 
man, lately Couch” upon the chief Pagan high-ronds, bat since promoted by 
8 patron (grateful for a well-taught son) to his present Christan beak. 

Cirisparkle, Mra., called Tur Curva Surruerpess. His moth- 
er: a pretty old lady, with bright eyes, a calm and cheerful Swe, 
anil a trim and compact figure. (Ch, vi, vii, x.) 

Datchery, Dick. A mysterious white-haired man, with black 
eyebrows, who presents himself in Cloisterham shortly after tho 
death of Edwin Drood, and who takes lodging overlocking the 


room of Mfr, Jasper 
‘Being buttoned up lo a Ughtish blue surtout, with « buil walstoost and gray 
trousors, he had something of a military alr; but he anvoanced himerif at the 








BiG The Dickens Mictlonarp. 


Crozier (the orthodox hotel, where he put up with = portmanteau) ax 

dog who lived ypon his means; and he further anpoanced Mai eiat eee 
t9 take a lodging in the ploturesque old elty for @ month or two, with a view of 
settling down thare altogether. 

Who or what he is does not appear; but it is plain that he takes 
up his abode in Cloisterham for the sole purpose of watching Jas 
per. (Ch. xviii, xxiii.) 

Deputy. A hideous small boy, hired by Durdles to pelt him home, 
if he catches him out too late. He explains to Jasper that he is a 
“man-servant up at the Travellers Twopenny,” a crazy wooden 
inn near the cathedral, As a caution to Durdles to stand clear if 
he can, or to betake himself home, the young imp always chants 
the following note of preparation before beginning to fling stones: — 

“ Widdy widdy went 
T—ket —chos—Im—out— ar —ter—ten, 
Widdy widdy wy! 
‘Then —E — don’t —go— then —I—ahy — 
Widdy widdy Wake-eock warning!" 
—with a comprehensive sweep on the last word. 

‘The relations between Durdles and Deputy are of a capricious kind; for, om 
Durdios turning himself about with the slow gravity of beery soddenness 
Depaty makes a pretty wide cireuit into the rood, and stands on the defensive. 

“You never erled Widdy Warning before you begun to-night,” says Durdler, 
‘unexprotantly reminded of or imagining an injury, 

“ Yer lio! I did,” says Depaty, in his ouly form of polite contradiction. 

“ Own brother, sir," observes Durdies, turalng himself about agaln, and as 
unexpectedly forgetting his offence as he had recalled or conceived it, — “ows 
brother to Peter the Wild Boy. But I gave him an objeot ba life." 

At wiiteh ho takes ain 2" Mr. Jasper suggesta, 

«That "s it. sir,” returns Durdies, quito satlafied, —**at which he takes aim. 

took him in hand, and gave hiin an object. What was he before? Adestrayer, 

‘What work did he do? Nothing but destruction. What did be earn by it? 
Short terms in Clolsterham Jall. Not # porson, not a piece of property, not = 
winder, not # horse, nor & dog, nor a cat, nor & bird, nor « fowl, nor ® pig, but 
what he stoned, for want of an enlightened object. I put that enlightened 
ubject before him; and now he can tura his hovest halfpenny by the three 
pean'orth a week" 

(Ch. v, xii, xviii, xxiii.) 

Drood, Hdwin. ‘Lhe character from whom the story takes ite 
name; & young man left an orphan at an early age, and betrothed, 
in accordance with his father’s dying wish, to Miss Rosa Bud, the 
daughter of an old and very dear friend. At the time the story 
opens, the young lady is attending the school of Miss 
at Cloisterham, and the young gentleman is studying om; 
in London. Neither of them is reconciled to the 




































Ede Mystery of Brwln 





08, bi 


their destiny in life bas, in a most important respect, been predeter 
mined for them; yet the thought of questioning the arrangement 
has not occurred to elther; and Edwin runs down to Cloisterham 
every now and then, both to see his intended, and to visit hiv 
ancle, Mr. Jasper, who is but little older than himself, and is his 
most intimate friend and companion. On one of these occasions, 
he meets at the Reverend Mr. Crisparkle's a young man by the 
name of Neville Landless, and his sister Helena, who are punming 
their studies,—the one under Mr, Crisparkle’s direction, the other 
at Miss Twinkleton’s establishment. The young men take a strong 
dislike to each other. Edwin thinks Neville’s sister vastly superior 
to her brother; while the Intter is disgusted by the alr of proprioe 
torship with which Edwin treats Rosa, whom he thinks an alto 
gether beautiful and attractive girl. They escort the young ladies 
home for the night, and then repair, at the invitation of Mr. Jas 
per, to his lodgings to have o glass of wine. ‘The drink is mixed 
for them by their host; and, althongh they take only a moderate 
quantity, it scems to madden them; for from sarcastic remarks 
they soon come to open violence, when they are separated by Jax 
per, who takes young Neville home, and reports his conduct to Mr 
Crisparkle. In the morning, Edwin departs for London, and Mr. 
Crisparkle is consequently unable to bring about an immediate re« 
conciliation; but be resolves todo so on the first opportunity that 
offers. He talks about the matter to Neville, who expresses him- 
velf willing to make an apology; and Mr. Jasper writes to Edwin, 
who replies that he ehall be glad to make any amends for his hasty 
display of temper. It is therefore arranged that the young men 
shall inect again at Mr. Jasper’s rooms, and “ shake hands, and say no 
nore about it.” Before revisiting Cloisterham, Edwin calls on Rosas 
guardian, Mr. Grewgious, who gives him » wedding-ring, which be: 
‘onged to her departed mother, and charges him to look carefully into 
bis own heart before making Rosa his wife; for, although the marriage 
was a wish dear both to his own father and to hers, he ought not to 
vomimit himself to euch a step for no higher reason than because he 
haa long bees accustomed to look forward to it. Edwin departs, and, 
deeply pondering the injunction of Mr. Grewgious, becomes convinced 
that the marriage ought not to take pice. He resolves to have a 
frank conversation with Rosa, feeling well assured that her riewa 
will coincide with his own. Repairing to the Nuns’ House, he 
seeks her with this intentioa, put finds himself anticipated; for she 
* 











518 Ede Dickens Dlctlonarp. 


eaters at once upon the subject herself. ire ei 
they agree to remain the best of friends, they cease to be lovers, and 
resalve to send at once for Mr. Grewgious, and communicate their 
determination to him, but to be quite silent upon the subject to all 
others, until his arrival. Edwin's sole anxicty, as he tells Rosa, is for 
his uncle, whom he dearly loves, and who, as he believes, has set hie 
heart on the union, Although Rosa does not declare her thoughts, 
the yot believes that the breaking-off of the match will not be so 
great a disappointment to Mr, Jasper as Edwin thinks, having good 
reason to know that he is himself deeply in love with her, They 
separate for the night, the young man going to his uncle's to meet 
Neville Landless, who, after promising Mr. Crisparkle that he will 
curb his irapetuons temper, directs his steps to the same place. 

The next morning, Edwin Drood is nowhere to be found; and 
young Landless sets out early for a two-weeks? ramble through the 
neighboring country. Mr. Jasper, becoming alarmed at the disap- 
pearance of his nephew, arouses the town, He says that the youryg 
men, after meeting at his room, went out together for a walk near the 
river, The feud between them is well known; and dark suspicions 
are entertained of foul play. Young Landless Is followed and 
arrested. The river is dragged, and no body Is discovered; but a 
watch, identified as Edwin's, is found; anda jeweller testifies that he 
wound and set it for him at twenty minutes past twoon the afternoon 
of his arrival, and that it had run down before being cast into the 
water. Further than this, nothing can be discovered, aud, ag there is 
not evidence enough to warrant Neville’s detention, he is set at Bh 
erty. So strong ia the popular fecling against him, howaver, that Ivy 
is forced to leave the town, and takes up his residence in an obscure 
part of London. Here he is visited by Mr. Crisparkle, who firmly 
believes in his innocence; and here he is watched and dogged by Mr. 
Jasper, who has taken a solemn oath to devote his life to ferreting out 
the murderer, 

Although the reader is left in the dark, by the abrupt termi- 
nation of the novel, as to who is the guilty party, he is led 10 believe 
that Mr. Jasper is the real assassin. Ho is desperately in love with 
Rosa; though she thoroughly dislikes and despises him. After the 
death of Edwin, he visits her, and declares his love >romising to 
forego his pursuit of young Landless, in whom she deeply inter 
ested, if'she will give him some encouragement, He shows himself @ 
least to be fully capable of the crime; and he is suspected by: 
herself and by Mr. Grewgious, (Ch, ii, vil, vill, xi, xii, xiv.) 














The Mystery 


Durdles. A stone-mason; chiefly in the grave-stone, tomb, and 
monument way, and wholly of their color from head to foot, (Ch. 
iv, xii, xiv.) 

No mans better known in Clolsterham, He is the chartered libertine of the 
place, Fame trumpets im a wonderful workman=which, for aught that any 
body knows, he may be (as he never works) — and a wonderful sot, which 
evar) body knows he Ix, With the cathedral erypt he ts better acquainted than 
any living guthority: it may eren be than any dead one, It is said that the 
futimacy of this acquaintance began in his habitually resorting to that recret 
place te lock out the Clolaterham boy-populace, and sleep off the fume of 
Aquor; he having ready access to the cathedral ws contractor for rough repairs. 
Be this as it may, he does know much about tt, and in the demolition of 
funpedimental fragments of wall, buttress, and pavement, has acen strange 
night. Ho often spenks of himself In the third person; perhaps being m litte 
misty as to his own identity when he narrates, perhaps impartially adopting 
the Clolsterham nomenclature In reference to a character of acknowledged dis- 
tinction, ‘Thns he will say, touching his strange sights, “Durdlex come upon 
the old chap,” in reference to a buried magnate of ancient time and high degree, 
© by atriking right into the coffin with his pick. The old chap gave Durdles » 
Jook with his open eyes, ns much as to-say, * I* your name Durdles? Why, my 
man, I?ve been waiting for you a devil of a time!? and then he turned to pow 
der.” With m two-foot rule always in thls pocket, and & maxon's hammer all but 
always in his hand, Durdles goes continually sounding and tapping all about 
‘and about the cathedral; and whenever he ways to Tope, “ Tope, here "* another 
old “an in here," Tope announces it to the dean as an established discovery. 

‘Mr. Jasper visits the cathedral one night with Durdles, whom he 
plies with liquor until he falls asleep; and he improves the opportu- 
nity to make an extended examination of the crypt, using the keys 
of his companion to obtain admission into its locked-up recesses. 
For what purpose this exploration is made does not appear, but, 
probably, for the sake of finding a safe hiding-place for the body 
of Edwin Drood, whom Jasper, as the reader is led to infer, has 
made up his mind to put ont of the way. See Derury. 

Werdinand, Miss, A pupilat Miss Twinkleton’s school. (Ch. ix, 
xiii.) 

Giggles, Miss. Another pupil at the same school, (Ch. ix, xiii.) 

Grewgious, Hiram, Esquire. Miss Rosa Bud's guardian, and 
“a particularly angular man.” (Ch. ix, xl, xv-xvil, xx-xxil,) 

He was an arid, sandy man, who, if he had been pat inte a grinding mill, looked 
asif he would bave come out immodiately Into high-dried snuff, He hada 
seunty, flat crop of bair, iu color and consiseney like some very mangy yellow 
fur tIppet: it was so unlike hatr, that {e must have been a wig, but for te stu 
pendour improbability of anybody's voluntarily sporting such a head. The 
little play of feature that his face presented was cut deep nto it in a few hard 
yorves that made it more like work; and he had certain noches in his forehend 
which looked ax though Nature had been about to touch them Into senalbility or 

refinemont, when she hud {mpatiently thrown away the chisel, und sald,** really 
‘sannot be worried to finish off this man: let him go as he ls.” 








in Droop. 519 








b20 Ede Dickens Mictfonarp. 


With too great length of throat at his upper end, and too touch ankle-tx me) 
‘end hee} nt his lower; with an awkward and hesitating manner; witho ¢harm- 
bling walk, and with what is called near sight— which, perhaps, 
ils observing how much white cotton stocking he displayed to the pablie 
‘eyo, 1n contrast with le black sult,— Mr. Grewglous till had some strange 
‘eapacity in him of making, on the whole, an agreeable impression. 

After the disappearance of Edwin Dtood, Mr. Grewgious hae as 
interview with Jasper, whose appearance and conduct is such as to 
excite the strongest suspicions of his being the murderer of that 
young gentleman. He keeps his thoughts to himself, however; but 
when Rosa, pursued by Jasper, goes to London to throw herself om 
her guardian's protection, he astonishes his little ward by his indig- 
nation, exclaiming with « sudden rush of amazing enenzy, — 

“Damp himt 
Confound his polltion | 
Frusteate his knavish tricks! 
On thee his hopes to fix? 
‘Damn himogaint” 

After this most extraordinary outburst, Mr. Grewgious, quite beside 
plunged about the room, to all appesrance, undecided whether he wasn a Gt of 
Joyal enthnsiasm, or combative denunelation. 

‘He stopped and sald, wiping his face, “ I beg your pardon, my dear; but you 
will be gind to know I feel bettor. ‘Dell me no more just now, or Lmight do ft 
again.” 

He immediately sets about making his ward comfortable, pro- 
eures lodgings for her, makes arrangements for Miss Twinkleton’s 
staying with her as a companion and friend, and devutes himself to 
investigating the mystery of Edwin Drood’s sudden disappear 


ance. 

Honeythunder, Mr. Luke, Chairman of the Convened Chief 
Composite Committee of Central and District Philanthropists, and 
quardian of Neville and Helena Lundless, Ke is a lange many 
with a tremendous voice, and an appearance of being constantly 
engaged in crowding everybody to the wall. 

‘Though it was not literally true, as was facetionsly charged agalnet bina by 
public unbelievers, that he called aloud to his follow-creatures, * Curse your soul 
nnd bodies! come here and be blessed" still his philanthropy waa of thit gut. 
powderous sort, that the difference between it und animosity was hard to deter 

You were to abolish military force; but you wore first to bring all 

nding officers who had done their duty to trial by courtmartial for that 

offence, and shoot them. You were to abolish war, but were to make converts 
by making war upon them, and charging them with loving waras the apple of 
thelr eye. You were to have no capital puntshment, but were first £0 

off the face of the earth all legislators, jurists, and judges who were of the 

contrary opinion, You were to have noiversal concord, and were to gut it by 

eliminating all the people who would n’t, or conscientiously could n/t, be com 











She Mystery of Guwln De 





cordant, You were to love your brother as yourself, but after an Indefinite 

anterval of maligning him (very much as if you hated hte), and walling film 

all manner of names, Abore all things, you were to do nothing in private 
vr on your own account. You were to go to the offices of the Haven of Philan- 
thropy, aud put your name down at a member and & professing philsnthro- 

pitt; then you were to pay up your subseription, get your card of membershils , 

and your ribbon and medal, and were evermore to live upon # platform, and 

‘evermore to say what Mr. Honeythunder sald, and what the freararer xald, and 

‘what the aub-treaaurer sald, and what the committee raid, and what the sub-com- 

mittee sald, and what the secretary sald, and what the wice-secretary said. And 

in the unanimously-carried resolution under hand and 

“That this assembled body of professing philanthropists 
views with indignant roorn and contempt, not unmixed with utter detestation 
and loathing ubhorrence?”—in short, the baseness of all those who do not 
belong to it, and pledges Itself to make ax many obnoxious statements as porte 
ble about them, without belug at all particular as to fot, 

(Ch. vi, xvii.) 

Jasper, John. A music-master who is employed as choir-master 
in Cloisterham Cathedral; uncle to Edwin Drood, for whom he pro- 
fesses the strongest affection. 

‘Mr. Jasper fx a dark man of some six and twenty, with thick, lustrows, well 
arranged black hair and whisker, He looks older thin he ts, as dark men often 
do. His voice is deep and good, his fuce and figure are good, his manner is a 
‘little sombre. 

Jasper is addicted to the use of opium, and resorts every now 
and then to a miserable hole in London, where the drug is prepared 
in a peculiar form by an old hag, and where he smokes himself into 
the wildest dreams. He goes to this place after the disappearance 
of Edwin Drood, and is followed, when he leaves, by the old 
woman, who thus ascertains who and what he is, The two are, in 
turn, watched by Mr. Datchery, who appears well satisfied on dis- 
covering the connection between them, (Ch. i, ii, iv, v, vii-x, xii, 
xiv-avi, xviii, xix, xxii, xxiii.) 

Jennings, Miss. A pupil at Miss Twinkleton’s Seminary for 
Young Ladies. (Ch. ix.) 

Joe. Driver of an omnibus, which is the daily service between 
Cloistavham and external mankind. (Ch. vi, xv, xx.) 

Landless, Helena. A native of Ceylon, but the child of English 
parents; a ward of Mr. Honeythunder’s, who sends her to Misa 
‘Twinkleton's School for Young Ladies in Cloisterham, where she 
becomes the friend and confidante of Rosa Bud. She is an tn- 
usually handsome, lithe girl, very dark and rich in color, — almost 
of the gypsy type, — with something untamed aout her, as there 
is, also, about her twin-brother Neville, 

“ 





a 





522 Ede Dica.ns Mictlonacp q 


A certain alr upon them of tunterand huntress; yet, withal, aeertaln | 
‘of being the objects of the chase, rather than the followers, Seen 
quick of eyeand limb, halfshy, half-defiant, fleroe of look; an Indetinable 
‘of pause coming and golng on their whole expression both of fee and form, 
‘which might be equally likened to the pause before a ervuch ora bound, 
(Ch. vi, vii, x, xiii, xiv, xxi) 
Landless, Neville. Hor brother, studying with the Reverend 
Mr. Crisparkle, and suspected of the murder of Edwin Drood. (Ch | 
vieviii, x, xi1, xiv-xvii.) 
Lobley, Mr. A boatman in the service of Mr. Tartar, —*the 
deal image of the sun in old woodcuts,” his hair and whisker ane 
swering for rays all around him. (Ch. xxii.) 
Reynolds, Misa. A pupil at the Nuns’ House, Miss Twinkleton’s 
q 





Seminary for Young Ladies, (Ch. ix.) 
Rickitts, Miss. Another pupil at the same establishment. 
Sapsea, Mr. Thomas, An auctioneer, afterwards mayor of 
Cloisterham. 

Accepting the Jackaa® as the type of self-suffctent stupidity and coneelty=—a 
‘custom, perhaps, like some few other customs, more conventional than fair, — | 
then the purest jackass Io Cloisterham is Mr. Thomas Sapeea, auctioneer. | 

‘Mr. Sapsea "dresses at” the dean; has been bowed to for the dean, ia mia 
take; has even been spoken to in the street as My Loni, under the Ampression 
that he was the bishop come down unexpectedly, without his chaplain. Mr. | 
Sapsea is very proud of this, and of his role wad of his style. He has even | 
{in selling landed property) tried the experiment of slightly intoning tn Inte pnl- | 
pit, to make himself more like what ho takes to be the genmine ecclesiastical 
article: 40, In ending a sale by public auction, Mr. Sapsea Gnishes off with am 
alr of bestowing a benediction on the assembled brokers, which leaves the real 
dean — a modest and worthy gentleman — far behind. 

‘Mr. Sapiea has many admirers: indeed, the proposition fa earrled by @ large 
local majority, even including non-believers {1 wisdom, that he ts @ credit 
to Cloisterham, He possesses the great qualities of being portentoas and dali, 
and of having a roll in bis speech, and another rollin hiv gait; not to mention 
4 omtain gravely-flowing action with his hands, as if he wore prevently going to 
confirm the individual with whom he holds discourse. Much nearer sixty years 
of age than fifty; with a flowing outline of stomach, and horizontal creases fie 
his walsteout; repated to be rich; voting at elections in the strictly reapectas 
bie interest; morally satisfied that nothing bat he himself hna grown since be 
‘was a baby, —how can dunder-headed Mr. Sapsea be otherwise than & credit to 
‘Clolsterham and society ? 


Having lost his wife, Mr. Sapsea determines to compose an epi- 
taph for her tombstone, that shall strike all ordinary minds with 
awe and confusion. When this literary thunderbolt is forged, he 
calls in Mr. Jusper to get his opinion of it. Not to astound the 
young man by immediately launching this masterpiece of scholastic 
workmanship at him, Mr. Sapsea considevately begins by 
ig how ho came, first by his extensive knowledge, secondly 





















Ebe FApsterp of Howin Broov. 523 


wife. The lady thus honored was a Miss Brobity, thu mistress of 
# school in Cloisterham. 


“She revered mind when launched, or, as I say, precipitated, on an extensive 
tmowledge of the world. When I made my proposal, sho did me the honor to 
be «0 overshadowed with  specles of awe, as to be able to articulate only the 
two words, ‘Oh, thoul’—meaning myself, Her limpld blue eyes were fixed 
‘opon mo; her semi-transparent hands were clasped together; pallor oversprend 
her nquilino fontures; and, thongh encournged to proceed, she never did proceed 
& word further. I disposed of the parallel establishment by private centract; 
an€ we became as nearly one as could bo expected under the cireatmstancer. 
‘But she never conld, and sho nerer did, find » phrase sutlsfactory to her perhaps 
too favorable estimate of my intellect. To the very last (feeble notion of liver), 
she addressed me in the same unfinished terms.” 

Mr. Jasper has closed his wyes ax the auctioneer has deepened his voloe. He 
now abruptly opens them, and says, In unison with the deepened voice, “Ab!” 
rather as if stopping himself on the extreme verge of adding, ‘men! 

“ Ehave boon since,” says Mr. Sapven, with his loge stretched out, and solemnly 
enjoying himself with the wine and the fire, * what you bebold me; I have been 
since a solitary mourner; I have been since, as I say, wasting my evening con- 
vormution on the desert alr. Iwill not say that I have reproached myself; but 
there have been times when I haye asked myself the question, «What if her 
husband had been nearer on a level with her? If she had not had to look vp 
quite #0 high, what might the stimulating aotion have been upon the liver??” 

‘Mr, Jasper says, with an appearance of having fallen into dreadfully low 
spirits, that he “supposes it was to be.! 

“We oan only suppose #0, sir, Mr. Supsen colncides. “As T say, mun pro- 
poses, heaven dispores. It may or may not be putting the same thought in 
‘another form; but that is the way I put it.” 

Mr, Jasper murmurs sseent, 

“And now, Mr. Jasper,” resumes the auctioneer, producing his serap of 
manuseript, “Mrs. Sapsea’e monument having had full time to settle and 
dry, let me take your opinion, as a man of taste, on the inscription I have (as 
I before remarked, not without some little fever of the brow) drawn out for it, 
Take it in your own hand: the setting-out of the lines requires to be followed 
With tho eye, as well as the contents with the mind.’ 

‘Mr. Jasper, complying, sees and rends ns follows: — 

ETIELINDA, 
Reverential Wit of 
MR. THOMAS SAPSEA, 
AUCTIONEER, VALUER, RSTATE AOuWT, ac 
oF THs rey, 

‘WHOSK KXOWLEDOE OF Tie WORLD, 
‘THOUOM SOMEWHAT EXTRXALYE, 
HVE BROUGUT 11M ACQUALYTED WIT 
A SPIRIT 
MORE CAYABLE OF 
LOOKING UE TO Hi. 
STRANGER, PAUSE, 

AXD ASK TUYSELY Tux QUESTION, 

CANST THOT DO LIKRWIBE? 
a nor, 
WITH A BLUSH RETIRE, 


a 
























Ba Ehe Michens Mictlonaty. 


“ Admirable!” quoth Mr. Jasper, handing back the paper, 

“ You approve, sir?” 

“Impossible not to approve. Striking, characteristic, and complete.” 

‘The auctlonoer inclines his head, as one accepting his due and giving @ re 
oolgt. 

(Ch. iv, xii, xiv-xvi, xviil.) 

Tartar, Lieutenant. An cx-officer of the Royal Navy, who has 

come into possession of a fortune, and has retired from the service, 


A handsome gentleman, with a young face, but an older figure in its rok ust 
hess and Its breadth of shoulder,—say a man of elght and twenty, or, at the 
‘utmost, thirty,—so extremely sunburnt, that the contrast between bis beowm 
Visage and the white forehead, shaded out of doors by his hat, and the gtimpres 
‘of white throat below the neckerchief, would hare been almost ludicrous, bat 
for his broad temples, bright blue cyes, clustering brown halr, and laughing 
teeth. 

He becomes the friend of Neville Landless, and makes the ac- 
quaintance of Rosa Bud, whose husband, it is probable, Mr. Dickeng 
intended him to become. (Ch. xvii, xxi, xxii.) 

Tisher, Mra. A deferential widow, with a weak back, a chronic 
sigh, and a suppressed voice, who looks alter the young ladies 
wardrobes at the Nuns’ House, Miss Twinkleton’s seminary at 
Cloisterham. (Ch. ii, vii, ix, xlil.) 

Tope, Mr. Chief verger of Cloisterham Cathedral. (Ch. ti, vi, xii, 
xiv, xvi, xviii, xxiii.) 

Tope, Mrs. His wife. (Ch. ii, xii, xiv, xvi, xvill, xxiii.) 

Twinkleton, Miss. Mistress of a boanling-school for young 
ladies in Cloisterham, attended by Rosa Bud and Helena Landless, 
(Ch. iii, vi, vii, ix, xiii, xxii.) 

Th the midst of Clolstorham stands the Nuns’ House, a venerable brick eff 
fice, whose present appellation Is doubtless derived from the legend of Sta enths 
‘yontual uses, On the trim gate enclosing its old courtyard is « resplendeng 
brass plato, flashing forth the legend, “Seminary for Young Ladves, tee 

shikleton.” ‘The hoase-front {x so old and worn, and the brass plate ts aa 

shining and staring, that the general result has reminded imaginative strangers 
of a battered old beau with a large modern eye-gluas ¥tack in his blind eye, 

Miss Twinkleton has two distinct and separate phases of boing. Every 
night, the moment the young Indios have rotired to rest, does Miss Twiakletoa 
smarten up her ourls a little, brighten up her eyes a little, and become # spright= 
Mier Miss Twinkieton than the young Indies have een, Every might, wt 
the name hour, docs Miae Twinkietan resume the topics of the previous mighty, 
‘comprehending the tenderer scandal of Clolstortiam, of which she hax no knowl 
‘edge whatever by day, and referenices to a certain senson at Tunbeldge Wells 
<alrily called by Miss Twinkloton, In thla atate of her existence, “ The Wells"), 
notably the season wherein a certain finished gentleman (compasslonately called 
by Miss Twinkleton, fn this state of her existence, “ Foolish Mr. Porters") re 
ealed a homage of the heart, whereof Mixs Twinkleton, in her scholastie state 
Gf existence, is as Ignorant as @ granite pillar. 




















Reprinted Pieces. 





Uxpen this name, thirty-one sketches, all of them originally published im 
“Household Words,” between the years 1850 and 1850, werv first bronght together 
{n 1858, and published in the twelfth volume of the “ Library Edition” of Dickeus's 
works, feaued Jointly by Metsrs. Chapman and tall, and Mestrs, Bradbury and 
Evans, In the pages here devoted to these “Reprinted Pieces,” several are 
wholly loft out of view; the characters in them being nameless, and therefore not 
falling within the scope of this Dictionary. 


CHARACTERS INTRODUCED. 


THE LONG VOYAGE. 
(Containing recollections of various Incidents of travel.) 


Bligh, Captain. Master of “The Bounty;” turned adrift on the 
wide ocean in an open boat. 
Brimer, Mr. Fifth mate of “The Halsewell.” 
Christian, Fletcher. One of the officers of “The Bounty;” a 
mutineer. 
Christian, Thursday October. A native of Pitcsirn’'s Island; 
son of Fletcher Christian by a savage mother. 
Macmanus, Mr, A midshipman in board of “The Halsewell,” 
an East-Indiaman wrecked on the island of Purbeck, 
Mansel, Miss, A passenger on the same ship. 
Meriton, Mr. Henry. Second mate of “ The Halsewell.” 
Pierce, Captain. Master of “The Halsewell.” 
Pierce, Miss Mary. His daughter. 
Rogers, Mr. ‘Third mate of * ‘Phe Ha'sewell.” 
Schutz, Mr. A passenger in the same ship. 
cy 


626 She Wickens Mictlonarp. 


THE BEGGING-LETTER WRITER. 


Southcote, Mr. One of the many aliases of professional swin- 
der, who writes letters soliciting money for the relief of his neces- 
sities. ~ 

Southoote, Mrs, His +ife. 


OUR ENGLISH WATERING-PLACE. 


Mills, Miss Julia, A sentimental novel-reader, who figures alse 
in “ David Copperfield” as the bosom-friend of Dora Spenlow. 


‘She has left marginal notes on the pages, as“ fv not this truly touching? — 
J.M “How thrilling!—J. ML”  * Entranced here by the magiclan’s potent 
spell. —J.M." She has also Italicised her favorite traits in the desoription of the 
hero,as “His hair, which was dark and wavy, clustered In rich profusion around 
& marble brow, whose lofty paleness beapoke the intellect within.” It remade 
her of another hero. She adds, “How like B. L.1 Can thls be mere eolvel- 
dence ?—J. M” 


Peepy, The Honorable Miss, The beauty of her day, but long 
deceased. 


OUR FRENCH WATERING-PLACE. 


Loyal Derasseur, M. Citizen, town-councillor, and landlord. 
He is an old soldier, and a stanch admirer of the great Napoleon. 


His respeet for the memory of the illustrious general is enthusiastic. Medal 
Hons of him, portraits of him, busts of him, pictures of him, are thickly sprinkled 
allover the property. Daring the first month of our occupation, it was our wfitics 
tion to be constantly kuocking down Napoleon: if we touched a shelf in a dark: 
‘corner, be toppled over with a erash; and every door we opened shook him £6 
the soul. Yet M. Loyal is not a man of more onatles In the air, or, ax he would 
say, in Spain. He has a specially practical, contriving, clever. skilful eye and 
hand. His houses are delightful. He unites French elegance and Bnglish 
comfort in a happy manner quite hisown, He has an extraordinary genius for 
making tasteful little bed-rooms in angles of his roofs, which an Jnglishansn 
would as soon think of turning to any account as he would think of enltivating 
the desert. We have ourselves reposed deliciously in an elegant chamber of 
M. Loyal’s construction, with our head as nearly in the kitchen ehimney>pot mx 
we can conceive it likely for the head of any gentleman, not by profession 
sweep, tobe... M. Loyal’s nature is the nature of a gentleman. He eulth: 
vates his ground with his own hands (assisted by one little laborer, who falls 
into n fit now and then); and he digs aud delves from morn to eve in prodigious 
perspirations —* works always." as be aays,—but cover him with dust, mud, 
weeds, water, any stains you will, you never can cover the gentleman in 
M. Loyal. A portly. upright, broadshouldered, brown-fnced mam, Whose sol 
dierly bearing gives him the appearance of being taller than he Is, Look into the 
bright eye of M. Loyal, standing before you tu his working blouse and cap, Hot 
particularly well shaved. and, it may be, very earthy, and you shalidiscern ty 
M. Loyal a gentleman whose true politeness is ingraln, and confirmation of 
whose word by his bond you would blush to think of. 







































Beprintey Dleces. Ba 


Peroce, M. A gentleman “in the bathing line;” immensely 
stout, of a beaming aspect, and of very mild and polished manners. 


BIRTHS. MRS, MEEK, OF A SON. 


Bigby, Mrs. Mother of Mrs. Meek, and a most remarkable woman. 
Her son-in-law says of her, — 

‘Iu my opinion, she would storm a town, single-handed, with « hearth-broom, 
and carry it. F have never known her to yleld any point whatever to mortal 
man, Sho is caloulated to terrify the stoutest heart, 

Meek Augustus George. Infint son of Mr. George Meek. 

Meek, Mr. George. The narrator of the story; a quiet man, oF 
small stature, a weak voice, and a tremulous constitation He is 
made utterly miserable by the manner in which his infant child is 
smothered and rasped and dosed and bandaged by the nurse, 
aided and" abetted by his wife’s mother; and he is betrayed into 
expressing himself warmly on the subject, notwithstanding his wish 
to avoid giving rise to words in the family, 

Meek, Mrs, His wife. 

Prodgit, Mrs. Mrs. Meck’s narse; considered by Mr. Meck to 
be “from first to last a convention and a superstition,” whom the 
medical faculty ought to take in hand and improve. 








‘One afternoon . . . Tcame home earlier than usual from the office, and, pro- 
eveding into the dintng-room, found an obstruction behind the door, which 
prevented It from opening frealy. It was an obstruction of @ xoft nature. On 
looking In, I found it to be w female, who stood in the corner, behind the door. 
consuming sherry-wine. From the nutty smell of that beverage pervading the 
apartinent, I have no doubt she was consuming ® scoond glassful, She wore 
‘a binck bonnet of large dimensions, and was copious in figure. ‘The expression 
of her countenance waa severe and discontented. ‘The words to which abe gave 
utterance on seeing me were these, “Oh! git along with you, «lr, If you please. 
‘Me and Mrs. Bigby don’t want no male parties here.” 


LYING AWAKE, 
Winking Charley. A sturdy vagrant in one of her Majesty’s 


jails, who, like her Majesty, like the author, like everybody else, lias 
had many astonishing experiences in his dreams, 


THE POOR RELATION'S STORY. 


[One of the tales In “+A Round of Stories by the Christmas Fire,’ the Christmas 
number of Household Words” for 1852.) 


Chill, Uncle, An avaricious, crabbed old man; uncle to Michael. 
Christiana, An old sweetheart of Michael's, to whom he imagines 
that he is married. 


a 


528 be Dickens Wictlonarp. 


Prank, Little. A cousin of Michael's; a difident boy, for whom 
he has » particular affection. 

Michael. ‘The “ poor relation,” and the narrator of the story, which 
hinges upon a fancy of what might have been. Premising that be 
is not what he is supposed to be, he proceeds, in the first place 
to state what he is supposed to be, and then goes om to tell what 
bis life and babits and belongings really are. He is thought to be 
very poor: in fact, he is rich. He is thought to be friendless; tat 
he has the best of friends. He is thought to have been refused by 
a lady whom he loved: it is a mistake; be married the lady, and 
bas a happy family around him, He is thought to live in a lodging 
in the Clapham Road : in reality, he lives in a casthe-—im fhe air, 

Snap, Betsey. Uncle Chill's only domestic; a withered, hard- 
favored, yellow old woman. 

Spatter, John. Michuel’s host, whom he feigus to Have been fint 
his clerk, and afterwards his partner. 


THE CHILD'S STORY. 
{One of the tales tn A Round of Stories by the Christmas Fire" the Chelstmas 
number of * Household Words "for 162.) 

Fanny. One of the prottiost girls that ever was seen, im love with 
“ Somebody." 

THE SCHOOL-BOY'S STORY. 

Cheeseman, Old. A poor boy at a boarding-scbool, who is = 
general favorite with his fellows, until he is made second Latin 
master ; when they all agree in regarding him asa spy and a desert 
er, who has sold himself for gold (two pound ten a quarter, and 
his washing). After this, his life becomes very miserable; for 
the master and his wife look dows upon him, and snub him ; while the 
boys perssoute him in many ways, and oven foem a society for the 
express purpoge of making a set against him. One he ie 
missod from his place; and it is thought at first, by the pupils, that, 
unable to stand it any longer, he has got up early, and drowned 
himself. It turns out, however, that he has come into m lange fore 
tune, —a fact which puts a very different face upon matters, making 
the master obsequious, and the scholars afraid for the consequesces 
of what they have done. But “Old Cheeseman” is notin the least 

aged by his sudden prosperity, addresses thom as 
“his dear companions and old friends," and gives Chem s agai 
eant spread in the dining-room. 


_ 





RMepelntey Pleces. 529 


Pitt, Jane. A sort of wardrobe woman to the boys. Though a 
good friend to the boys, she is also a good friend to “Old Cheese- 
man;” and, the more they go against him, the more she stands by 
him. It is, therefore, only a natural thing, and one to be expected, 
that, when * Old Cheeseman” suceeeds to his grandfather's large 
property, he should share it with her by making her his wife. 

Tartar, Bob, The “first boy" in the school, and president of the 
© Society” formed for the purpose of annoying “ Old Cheesemun.* 


NOBODY'S STORY. 


Bigwig Family, The. A large household, composed of stately 
and noisy people, professed humanitarians, who do nothing but 
blow trumpets, and hold convocations, and make speeches, aud 
write pamphlets, and quarrel among themselves. 

Nobody, otherwise Learon. The narrator of the story, which, 
under the guise of an allegory, contains an appeal to the governing 
lasses in behalf of the poor, and an argument for their proper in- 
struction and rational amusement as a means of preventing drunk- 
enneas, debauchery, and crime. 


THE GHOST OF ART. 
(A satire on the Art Exhibitions of the Royal Academy.) 
Parkins, Mra, A laundress, who invariably disregards all in~ 


structions. 
OUT OF TOWN. 
(A description of a little town named Pavilionstoue, which has become # favorite 
eaxide resort.) 

Within a quarter of a century, It was a little Gehing-town; and they do aay, 
‘that the time was, when it was @ little smuggling town. .., Now, gas and 
electricity run to the very water's edge, and the South-Eastern Railway Com 
pany tereoch at a4 In the dead of night. . . . Weare a little mortary and limy 
at present; but weare getting on cupitally. Indeed, we were getting on so fast, 
at one time, that we rather overdid it, and built a street of shops, the business 
of which may be expected to arrive Inabout ten years. Weare sensibly laid out, 
in general, and, with a little care and pains (by no means wanting, so far), shall 
decome a very pretty place. We ought to be; for our situation is delightful; our 
alr ts delicious; and our breezy hills and downs, carpeted with wild thyme, and 
doce rated with millions of wild flowers aré, on the faith of a pedestrian, porficte 





CUT OF THE SEASON. 


Blocker, Mr. A grocer. 
Wedgington, Mr, B, A singer and clog-dancer, who gives an 
exhibition at a watering-place, after the “ season " Js over. 
“6 








630 Ebe Mickens Mlctlonarp, 


‘Wedgington, Mrs. B. His wife; a singer and ptanist. 

Wedgington, Master B, Her infant son, aged ten months; 
nursed by a shivering young person in the boxes, while his mother 
is on the stage. 


A POOR MAN'S TALE OF A PATENT. 


Butcher, William, A Chartist; friend to John. 

John. The narrator of the story; a poor man, a smith by trade, 
who undertakes to obtain a patent on an invention which he has 
been twenty years in perfecting. He succeeds in doing so only 
after going through thirty-five distinct stages of obeying forms anid 
paying fees, at a cost of nincty-six pounds, seven, and eightpenco, 
though nobody opposes his application. 

Joy, Thomas, A carpenter with whom John lodges in London. 


A FLIGHT. 


Compact Enchantress, The. A French actress. 

Diego, Don. Inventor of the last new flying-machine. 

Zamiel. A tall, grave, melancholy Frenchman, with whom (and 
with other passengers) the writer takes a flying trip from London 
to Paris. { 

THE DETECTIVE POLICE | 

Clarkson. Counsel for Shepherdson and other thieves traced out 
and arrested by Sergeant Mith. 

Dornton, Sergeant. A detective police-officer; a man about | 
fifly years of age, with a ruddy face and a high sunburnt forchead. 
He is fumous for steadily pursuing the inductive process, working 
on from clew to clew until he bags his man. | 

Dundey, Doctor. A man who robs bank in Ireland, and eseapes 
to America, whither he is followed and captured by Sergeant 
Dornton. 

fendall, Sergeant. A detective police-officer; a 
well-spoken, polite person, and a prodigious hand at pursuing pri- 
vate inquiries of a delicate nature, 

Fikey. A man accused of forgery; taken prisoner by Inspector 
Field. 

Mesheck, Aaron. A Jew, who gets acceptances from young mew 
of good connections (in the army chiefly), on pretence of 
and decamps with the same. He is finally found by 
Dornton in the Tombs prison, in New York City. 










Repe(nted Pleres. Bal 


Mith, Sergeant. A detective police-officer; a smooth-faced man 
with a fresh, bright complexion, and a strange air of simplicity. 
He is a dab at houscbreakers. 

Pigeon, Thomas, See Taomrsox, Tay-no. 

Shepherdson, Mr. A thcef, who informs detective Mith (who, 
under the disguise of » young butcher from the country, has gained. 
his confidence) that he is going “to hang out for a while” at the 
Setting Moon, in the Commercial Road, where he is afterwards 
found, and is taken into custody. 

Stalker, Mr. Inspector. A detective police-officer; a shrewd, 
hard-headed Scotchman; in appearance not at all unlike a very 
acute, thoroughly-trained schoolmaster from the Normal Establish 
ment at Glasgow. 

Straw, Sergeant. AA detective; a little, wiry man of meek de- 
meanor, and strong sense, who would knock at a door, and ask a 
series of questions in any mild character you choose to prescribe ta 
him, from a charity-boy upward; and seem as innocent as an 
infant. 

Thompson, Tally-ho, alias Tuomas Piceox, A famous horse- 
stealer, couper, and magsman, tracked to a lonely ina in Northamp- 
tonshire, by Sergeant Witchem, who, single-banded, arrests him, 
and takes him to London ; though he has two big and ugly-looking 
companions with him at the time. 

Wield, Mr, Inspector. A detective police-officer; a middle- 
aged man, of a portly presence, with a large moist, knowing eye, a 
husky voice, and a habit of emphasizing his conversation by the 
aid of a corpulent fore-finger which is constantly in juxtaposition 
with his eyes and nose. 

Witchem. A detective; a short, thick-set man, marked with the 
small-pox, and having something of a reserved and thoughtful air, 
as if he were engaged in deep arithmetical calculations, He is 
renowned for his acquaintance with the swell mob. 


THREE “ DETECTIVE” ANECDOTES. 


Grimwood, Eliza, called Tue Countess. A handsome young 
woman, found lying dead, with her throat cut, on the floor of hes 
bed-room, in the Waterloo Road. 

Phibbs, Mr. A habordasher. 

Tatt, Mr. A geatleman formerly in the public line; quite an ama- 
tour detective in nis way. He loses a diamond pin in a scrimmage 











632 She Dickens Mictlonarg. 


which is recovered by his friend Sergeant Witebem, who sees the 
man who took it, and while they are all down on the flooriegetler 
knocking about, touches him on the back of his hand, as his “ pal 
would ; and he thinks it ix his pal, and gives it to him, 

Trinkle, Mr, A young man suspected of the murder of Eliza 
Grimwood, but proved innocent. 


ON DUTY WITH INSPECTOR FIELD. 


Bark, Bully. A lodging-house keeper, and a receiver of stolen 
goods, who lives in the innermost receases of the worst part of 
London. 

Bark fe a rod villain and a wrathful, with a sanguine throat, that looks very 
much as If ft were expreuly made for hanging, we he atretches ft out, In pale 
defiance, over the halfwoor of his hutch. Bark’s parts of speech are of an 
awful sort, —prinefpally adjectives. I won't, says Burk, have no adjective palloe 
and adjective strangers in my adjective premles, I won't, by adjective and 
substantive! Give me my trousers, and E’ll send the whole adjective police to 
adjective and substantive! Give me, says Bark, my adjective trousers! 17i 
put an adjective knifo in the whole bileing of"em. fl punch their adjective 
heads. I'll ripup thelr adjective substantives, Give me my adjective trousers, 
says Bark, and 171 spile the bileing of fem, 

Black. A constable, who, with his fellow-constable Green, accom- 
panies Inspector Field to Wentworth Street to unveil its midnight 
mysteries. 

Blackey. An impostor, who has stood soliciting charity near Lon- 
don Bridge for five and twerty years, with a painted skin, to repre 
sent disease. 

Click, Mr. A vagabond. 

Field, Inspector, A detective officer, who aceompanics the wri 
ter, by night, to the lowest parts of London, visiting Rats’ Castle 
(a dark, close cellar, a lodging-house for thieves, near Saint Giles's 
Church), the old Farm-House near the Old Mint, the sailors’ 
dance-houses, in the region of Ratcliffe Highway, the low haunts 
of Wentworth Strvet, and revealing the worst mysteries of the 
great city. 

Green. A constable, who, with another constable, named Black 
acts as an escort to Inspector Field, on his visiting Wentworth 
Street. 

Miles, Bob. A vagabond and jail-bird. 

Parker. A constable who attends Inspector Field on the 
of his visit to the “ Old Mint.” 

‘ 















Reprinted Pleces 535 


Rogers. A constable who goes with Inspector Field to Rats’ 
Castle. 

‘Warwick, The Harl of. A thief, so called. 

White. Aonstable who shows Inspector Field and his visitor the 
lodg'ng-houses in Rotten Gray’s Inn Lane. 

‘Williams, A constable who pilots Inspector Field and his visitor 
to the sailors’ dance-houses in the neighborhood of Rateliffe High 
way 

DOWN WITH THE TIDE, 


Pea, or Peacoat. A river policeman, with whom the writer goos 
down the Thames, at night, on a tour of inspection. 
‘Waterloo, A toll-taker, so called, nt the bridge of that name. 


PRINCE BULL: A FAIRY TALE. 


Bear, Prince. An enemy of Prince Bull; intended as a personi- 
fication of Russia, 

Buil, Prince. A powerful prince, married to a lovely princess 
named Fair Freedom, who brought him a large fortune, and has 
borne him an immense number of children. 

He had gone through n great deal of fighting, In his time, about all sorts of 
things, including nothing; but hnd gradoally settled down to be a steady, 
peaceable, good-natured, corpalent, rather sleepy prince. 

Under this name the English Government is satirized, with espe- 
cial reference to its-bungling, inefficient prosecution of the Crimean 
war, and its obstinate adherence, ‘Under all low ominit to mere 
official routine and formality. 

Tape. A malicious old beldame; godmother to Prince Bull. 

She was fatry, this Tape, and was a bright red all over. Sho wns 
ingly prim and formal, and could never bend berself a hisir'sbreadth, thls way 
or that way, out of her naturally crooked shape, But she was very potent fm 
her wicked art. She could stop the fastest thing in the world, change the strong 
‘est thing into the weakest, aud the mort useful Loto the most useless, To do, 
‘his ahe hus only to put her cold hand upon It, and repeat her own name, Tape, 
‘Then it withered away. 





OUR HONORABLE FRIEND. 

Tipkisson. A swiler, a plain, hard-worsing man, and an opponent 
of “Our Honorable Friend,” who is returned to parliament (in 
preference to himself’) as the member for Verbosity, — the best rep 
resented place in England. 

- 





684 ope Dickens Detlonary. 


OUR SCHOOL. 


Blinkins, Mr. Latin-master; a colorless, doubled-up, near-sighted 
man, with a crutch, who is always cold, and always putting 
onions into his ears for deafness, and always disclosing ends of 
flannel under all his garments, and almost always applying a ball 
of pocket-handkerchief to some part of his face with a serewing 
action round and round, + 

He was a very good scholar, and took great pains where he saw intelligence 
and a desire to learn; otherwise, perhaps not, Our memory presents hin 
(unless teased into ® passion) with as little energy #4 color; as haring been 
worried and tormented into monotonous feebleness; as having had the best 
part of his life ground out of him in « mill of boys, 

Dumbledon, Master. A parlor-boarder; an idiotic, gozgled- 
eyed boy, with a big head, and half-crowns without end; rumored 
to have come by gea from some mysterious part of the earth, where 
his parents rolled in gold; and said to fued in the parlor on steaks 
and gravy, likewise to drink currant-wine. 

Frost, Miss. A school-girl. 

Mawls, Master. A school-boy, with manners susceptible of much 
improvement. 

Maxby, Master. <A day-pupil, favored by the usher, who is sweet 
upon one of his sisters. 

Phil, A serving-man, with a sovereign contempt for learning. 


OUR VESTRY, 
(A satire on the proceedings of parliament.) 

Chib, Mr. (of Tucket’s Terrace). A hale old gentleman of eighty~ 
two, who is the father of the vestry. 

Banger, Captain fof Wilderness Walk). A vestry-man, and an 
opponent of Mr. Tiddypot, with whom he has a Pickwickian altar 
cation. 

Dogginson, Mr. A vestry-man who is regarded as “a regulay 
John Bull.” 

Magg, Mr. (of Little Winkling Street). Onc of the “ first orators 
of “ Our Vestry.” 

Tiddypot, Mr. (of Gumtion House). A vestry-man. See BAxGER, 
Caprarn. 

Wigsby, Mr, (of Chumbledon Square). A vestry-man, who is = 
debater of great eminence, 








Some WUncollected Pieces, 





THE STRANGE GENTLEMAN. 

‘Ties {s a comic burletta, in two nots, It was first performed at the St. James's 
‘Theatre, on Thursday, the 20th of September, 1816; was well recelved; and ram 
until December, when it was withdrawn for ‘The Village Coquettes,”  comle 
opera by the rame author. The Strange Gentleman was acted by J. P. Harley; 
and Dickens himself, on one oecasion, took «part, In 1897, the pleoe was pub- 
Mshed, under the pseudonym of * Boz,” by Chapman and Hall, in « small octayo 
pamphlet of forty-six pages, ilustrated with an etched frontispiece by “Thiz” 
(Mablot Knight Browne), 

‘The play is a dramatized version of the story of “ The Great Winglebury Dael,” 
tn “The Sketches by Box," with some few changesin the plot, and some altera- 
tions of the names of places and persons. ‘Thus “ Great Winglebury” becomes & 
small anonymous town on the road to Grotua; the “ Winglebury Arms” is turned 
Into “The St, James's Arms; *Stiffun’s Acro” (the scene of the proposed duel) 
4s renamed “Corpse Common;" instead of Mr. Horace Hunter and Mrs. Wil- 
Mamson, we have Mr, Horatio Tinkles and Mrs, Noakes; Miss Juila Manners 
turns her surname into Dobbs; and Mr. Joseph Overton, his Christian name into 
Owen; while Mr. Alexander Trott figures as the Strange Gentleman, and is at 
“ast discovered to be Mr. Walker Trott. — See pages 13, 14. 





OHARAUTERS INTRODUCED. 


Brown, Miss Emily. A young lady beloved by both Mr. Trott 
(the Strange Gentleman) and Mr. Tinkles, but married to the lat~ 
ter. 

Dobbs, Miss Julia, A wealthy woman, formerly engaged to be 
married to Mr. Woolley, who died, leaving her his property, free 

ou 








536 Ede Wickens Bietlonary. 


from all incumbrances; the incumbrance of himself as & husband 
not being among the least. Being desperately in want of a young 
husband, she falls in love with « certain wild and not very strong- 
minded nobleman, Lord Peter, who engages to ran away with | 
her to Gretna, and be marriod. He fails to keep the 

ment, however; and she gives her hand to Mr. Trott (the Strange 
Gentleman) instead. 

John, A waiter at the St. James's Arms. 

Johnson, John, A hare-brained mad-cap enamoured of Miss 
Mary Wilson, with whom he starts for Gretna Green, but is tem 
porarily detained at the St, James’s Arms by his thoughtless 
liberality to the post-boys, which leaves him absolutely penniless. 

A timely loan, however, enables him to continue his journey. 

Noakes, Mrs. Landlady of the St. James's Arms. 

Overton, Mr, Owen, An attorney, who is mayor of the small | 
town in which is the St, James's Arms. 

Peter, Lord, A sprig of nobility, very wild, but not very sagacious 
or strong-minded, who is in love with Miss Jalia Dobbs —or her 
handsome fortune, 

Sparks, Tom. “Boots” at the St. James's Arms. 

Strange Gentleman, The. See Trott, Mr. WALKER. 

Tomkins, Charles. A young gentleman in love with Miss Fanny 
Wilson. He has arranged to run away with her to Gretna Green, 
and meets her for this purpose at the St. James's Arms. As he 
has agreed not to disclose his name, she imagines that the 
Gentleman, staying at that house, and rumored to be ingane, but 
whom she has not seen, is her lover. When she meets Mr. Tom- 
king, therefore, she acts upon the presumption that be Is actually 
out of his head; and her conduct seems to him so strange, that he 
suspects her of playing him false, and works himself up into a tem- 
pest. of jealousy, which only serves to confirm her belief in his 
Janacy, ‘They are both, however, disabused at Inst, and set off, 
without delay, for their original destination. 

Trott, Mr. Walker, called Tue Srnaxcr GeNTLEMAN. A 
young man desirous of marrying Miss Emily Brown, but deterred 
by the hostile attitude of Mr. Horatio Tinkles, who challenges him 
to mortal combat (on Corpse Common) for daring to think of such 
athing. He accepts the challenge in a bloodthirsty note, but fine 
mediately sends another, and an anonymous one, to the 
urging that a Strange Gentleman at the St, James's Arms, be 








Some AUncollectev Pieces. 537 


with arrested, as he is bent upon committing 4 rash and ¢anguinary 
act. By a ludicrous blunder, he is mistaken for Lord Peter, who 
fs expected at the same house for tho purpose of meeting Miss 
Julia Dobbe, his intended; and who is to be seized and carried off as 
an insane person, in order that his relatives may not discover him. 
As ho is being foreed into the carriage, however, the lady dix 
covers that he is unknown to her; and she refuses to accompany 
him. At the same moment, a letter from his rival is put into his 
hands, saying that the challenge was a ruse, and that the writer 
is far on his way to Gretna to be marricd to Miss Emily Brown. 
Determined not to be thus balked of a wife, Mr. Trott offers him- 
self to Miss Dobbs on the spot, is accepted, and starts instanter for 
the same place in a post-chaise and four. 

Wilson, Fanny. A young lady affianced to Mr. Charles Tomkins. 

Wilson, Mary. The innamorata of Mr. John Johnson. 


THE VILLAGE COQUETTES. 


‘Tuts “‘com{o opers in two nots," for which Mr, John Hullah composed the 
music, was written in 1835, and was brought out at the St. James's Theatre, In 
‘London, on Tuesday evening, December 6, 1630. “The quaint humor, unaffected 
pathos, and graceful lyries of this production, found prompt recognition; and the 
piece enjoyed prosperous run.” The libretto of the opera was published by 
Bentley, in 1896, In a pamphict of seventy-one pages, the dedication, to Jamies Pritt 
Harley, being dated December 15, ‘The sorno As tald in an English village, and 
the time is supposed to be the autumn of 1729, 

Benson, Lucy. A beautiful village-girl betrothed to George Ed- 
munds, a humble bat worthy man. Squire Norton, a man much her 
superior in social station, tries to lead her astray, and for a time 
the coquettes with him; but before it Is too late, she sees her error, 
rejects the clopement he urges, and returns to her discarded lover. 

Benson, Old. Her father; a small farmer. 

Benson, Young. His son; Lucy's brother. 

Edmunds, George. A young man in love with Lucy Benson. 

lam, The Honorable Sparkins, Friend to Squire Norton; 
fascinated by Rose, a village beauty, whom he ineffectually endeay- 
ors to lead from the path of virtue; though she is at first flattered. 
by his attentions. 

Maddox, John. A voung maz attached to Rose. 

Norton, Squire. A country-gentleman, who attempts, but un 
successfully, to seduce the fair Lucy Bensop. 





538 Ebe Pickens Dictlonarp. 


Rose, Cousin to Lucy Benson; a lovely village maiden, whom the 
Honorable Sparkins Flam vainly seeks to ruin. 

Stokes, Mr. Martin, A very small farmer with a very lange 
circle of particular friends. 


IS SHE HIS WIFE? 
On, SomeTRIxG SiXOULAR, 


Ax Inedited comio butlotta, In one act, played at the St. James's Theatre, es 
Monday. March 6, 1897, ‘Tho part of the principal character, Mr. Felix Tapikins, 
was taken by James Pritt Harley. 


John, Servant to Mr, Lovetown, 

Limbury, Mr. Peter. A friend of Mr. Felix Tupkins's; made 
furiously jealous by the attentions his wife receives from Mr. Love- 
town. 

Limbury, Mrs, A vain, conceited woman, who carries on a flirta- 
tion with Mr. Lovetown, for the double purpose of assisting him in 
curing his wife of her self-tormenting suspicions, and of teaching 
her husband the misery of the jealous fears he has been accustomed 
to harbor, 

Lovetown, Mr. Alfred. A nowly-married man, perpetually 
yawning, and complaining of ennui. His wif, chagrined by his 
seoming indifference, determines to remove it, if she can, by wound- 
ing his vanity, and arousing his jealousy. She accordingly carries 
on a flirtation with a gay young bachelor (Mr. Tapkins), which 
perfectly effects her object. Lovetown, stung to the quick, affects 
a passion for Mrs. Limbury, which he does not feel, and to which 
the never really responds, with the double motive of obtaining 
opportunities of watching his wife, and of awaking any dormant 
feelings of affection for himself that may be slumbering in her 
bosom. In the carrying-on of these intrigues, many amusing mis 
understandings occur; but in the end mutual explanations remove 
all suspicions, and re-establish the confidence and affection which 
have temporarily been driven away. 

wovetown, Mra. His wife. 

Tapkins, Mr. Felix. A gay, good-heartod bachelor, who has a 
sufficient share of vanity, and who plumes himself on his gallantry: 
He resides at Rustic Lodge (near Reading), a remarkable cottage, 
with cardboard chimneys, Grecian balconies, Gothic parapets, and 
thatched roof; Such a model of compactness is this house, thar 








al 


Some Wncollected Pleces. 539 


‘even the horse can’t cough without Lis owner's hearing him; the 
stable being close to the dining-room windows. See Lovyetows, 
Mn. Aurrep. 


PUBLIC LIFE OF MR. TULRUMBLE (oxcx Maron or Munroa), 
[From * Bentloy’s Miscellany," January, 1337.) 


Jennings, Mr, A gentleman with a pale face and light whiskers, 
whom Mr, Tulramble imports from London to act as his secretary. 

Bniggs, Mr. Predecessor of Mr, Tulrumble in the mayoralty of 
Mudfog. 

Tulrumble, Mrs, Wife of Mr. Nicholas Tulrumble; a vulgar, 
ignorant woman. 

Talrumble, Mr. Nicholas. A coal-dealer, who begins life in a 
wooden tenement of four feet equare, with a capital of two and 
ninepence, and  etock in trade of three bushels and a half of coals, 
Being industrious and saving, he gradually gots rich, marries, builds 
Madfog Hall (on something which he endeavors to delude himself 
into thinking a hill), retires from business altogether, grows vain 
and haughty, sets up for a public character and a great gentleman, 
and finally becomes mayor of Mudfog. 


Mudfog is a pleasant town . . . sftanted in a charming hollow by the side of 
a river, from which [It] derives an agreeable scent of pitch, ter, coals, and 
rope-yarn, # roving population In oll-skin hats, # pretty steady influx of drunken 
bargemen, and m great many other maritime advantages. There Is a good 
deal of water about Mudfog; and yet it ts not exactly the sort of town for a 
watering-place elther. in winter, [tf comes oozing down the streets, and 
tumbling over the fields; nay, rushes into the very collars and kitchens of the 
houses with a lavish prodigality that might well be dispensed with. Bat fa 
the hot summer weather it will dry up and turn green; and although green fe 
1 very good color In its way, especially in grass, still It certainly 1x not becom 
ing to water; and {t cannot be denfed that the beauty of Mudfog 1s rather ime 
paired even by this trifling circumstance, 






Having, when in London, been present at the lord-mayor’s 
show, Mr. Tulrumble determines to have one of his own in Mud- 
fog, which shall equal if not surpass it. He makes arrangements, 
therefore, for a grand procession and dinner; but the day of his 
inauguration is dim and dismal, the crowd is unreasonable and 
derisive, the show is a failure, the dinner is flat, and Nicholas is 
deeply disappointed. Getting statistizal and philosophical, he 
exerts himself to prevent the granting of a new license to an old 
and popular inn, called“ The Jolly Boatmen,” and commences a 





— 





B40 Ede Dickens Mictlonary. 


general crusade against beerjugs and fiddles, forgetting the time 
when he was glad to drink out of the one, and to dance to the other, 
He soon finds, however, that the people have come to hate him, 
and that his old friends shun him; he begins to grow tired of his 
new dignity and his lonely magnificence; and at last he dismisses 
his secretary, goes down to his old haunt, “The Lighterman’s 
Arms,” tells his quondam companions that he is sery sorry for hay« 
ing made a fool of himself, and hopes they will give bim up his 
old chair in the chimney-corner again, which they do with great | 


Joy: 

Tulrumble, Nicholas, junior. Their son. When his father 
becomes rich, he takes to smoking cigars, and calling the footman a 
* feller.” 

Twigger, Hdward, called Borrie-vosep Nev. A 
pered, pleasant-faced, good-for-nothing sort of vagabond, with ar 
invincible dislike to manual labor, and an unconquerable attach- 
ment to strong beer and spirits. He is engaged to take part in the 
procession in honor of the election of Mr. Tulramble as mayor of 
‘Mudfog, and is to make his appearance in a complete suit of an- 
cient brass armor of gigantic dimensions. Unfortunately, how- 
ever, he gets drunk, makes a most extraordinary exhibition of 
himself, as well as a Leughing-stock of the mayor, and has to be 
conducted home, where his wif, unable to get the armor off, tum- 
bles him into bed, helmet, gauntlets, breastplate, and all. _ 

Twigger, Mrs. His wife. 


THE PANTOMIME OF LIFE. 
[Published in “ Sentley"s Miscellany * March, 1827.) 

Do ‘em. A confederate of Captain Fitz-Whisker Fierey, acting as 
lis livery-servant. 

Viercy, The Honorable Captain Fitz-Whisker. A swin- 
dler, who struts about with that compound air of conscious superi- 
ority and general blood-thirstiness, which is characteristic of most 
military men, and which always excites the admiration and terror 
of mere plebeians. He dupes all the tradesmen in his neighbor 
hood, by giving them orders for all sorts of articles, which 
wards disposes of to other dealers by means of his 
Do'em. 







Some Ancollected Pieces. Bal 


THE LAMPLIGHTER'S STORY. 


‘Mx. Joux Macnozn, tho publisher of the “Sketches by Boz,” died In Wi, 
Jeaving his wife and children In straltened elroamatances, For thelr benefit, Mr. 
Dickens undertook to procure and supervise the publication of a series of voluntary 
literary contributions, ‘Theo were ismed in three volumes, by Henry Colborn, 
under the following title: “The PieNlo Papers. By various hands. Edited by 
Charles Dickens” The work was illustrated by George Cruikshank and Phiz* 
eet rvod the purpose for which It was intended, and brought Mire. Macrone the sum 
af three hundred pounds. Mr. Dickens wrote the Preface, and furnished the open 
Ing cale, called “ The Lamplighter's Story," which is a narrative version of farce 
that he wrote in 1898 or 1830 for the mannger of the Covent-Garden Theatre. 


Barker, Miss Fanny. Niece to an old astrologer, who takes Tom 
Grig to be pointed out by the stars as her destined husband. He 
describes her as having “a graceful carriage, an exquisite shape, 
‘@ sweet voice, a countenance beaming with animation and expres- 
sion, and the eye of a startled fawn.” She has also, he says, five 
thousand pounds in cash; and this attraction, added to the others, 
inelines Tom to marry her; but, when he finds that her uncle has 
borrowed and epent the whole sum in an unsuccessfill search for 
the philosopher's stone, he alters his mind, and declares that the 
scheme is “no go,” at which the uncle is enraged, and the niece is 
delighted; sho being in love with another young man. 

Fimma. Daughter of a crazy astrologer who has spent fifteen years 
in conducting fruitless experiments having for their object the dis- 
covery of the philosopher's stone. Her father designs marrying 
her to his partner, “the gifted Mooney ;" but he utterly refuses to 
take her, alleging that his “contemplation of woman-kind”™ has led 
him to resolve that he “will not adventure on the troubled sea 
of matrimony.” 

Galileo Isaac Newton Flamstead. The Christian names 
of the son of the crazy astrologer who takes Tom Grig to be “the 
favorite of the planets.” He is a tall, thin, dismal-fnced young 
gentleman, in his twenty-first year; though his father, absorbed in 
chimerical projects, considers him “a mere child,” and hag n't pro- 
vided him with a new suit of clothes since he was fourteen. 

Grig, Tom. A lamplighter, who, on going his rounds one day, is 
accosted by one of the strangest and most mysterious-looking old gen~ 
tlemen ever seen. ‘This person proves to be a very learned astrolo- 
ger, who is on the point of discovering the philosopher's stone, which 

e = 








baz Ede Mickens Mlctlonarp. 


will turn every thing into gold. He imagines that he has found in 
‘Tom a nobi¢ stranger, whose birth is shrouded in uncertainty, and 
who is destined by the stars to be the husband of his young and lovely 
niece. He therefore takes him into his house forthwith, and intro 
dueot him to the lady, She is greatly disturbed, and suggests that’ 
the stars must have made a mistake; but is sllenced by her ancle, 
After this, Tom accompanies the old gentleman to the observatory, 
wher? Mr. Mooney —another scientific gentleman — casts his native 
ity, and horrifies him by predicting his death at exactly thi 
minates, twenty-seven seconds, and five-sixths of a second, past 
nine o'clock, A.a4, on that day two months. ‘Tom makes up his mind, 
that, while alive, he had better be rich than poor, and so assents to 
the proposed marriage. The preliminaries are nearly coneluded, 
when suddenly the crucible containing the ingredients of the miracu- 
lous stone explodes with a tremendous crash, and the labors of fifteen 
years are destroyed in an instant. Moreover, mistake is discoy- 
ered in the old gentleman's computation; and it turns out that Tom 
is to live to a green old age,—eighty-seven, at least. Upon this, 
not caring for a portionless bride who does n't love him, he utterly 
Tefuses to marry the lovely niece, whereupon her uncle, in a rage, 
wets his forefinger in some of the liquor from the crucible that was 
spilt on the floor, and draws a small triangle upon the forehead 
of the young lamplighter, who instantly finds himself in the #ateh- 
house, with the room swimming before his eyes, 

Mooney, Mr., called Tae Grrtep. A learned philosopher, with 
the dirtiest face we can possibly know of in this imperfect state 
of existence. He is so very absent-minded, that he always bas to 
be brought to by means of an electric shock from a strongly-charged 
battery 








Addenda. 





PAOK 20.—“ As this letter Is to be historical, T may as well elatn what little 
belongs to me in the matter; and that ts the figure of Pickwick. Seymour's first 
sketch was of a long, thin man: the present immortal one he mado from my 
deveription of a friend of mine at Richmond, —a fat old beau, who would wear, in 
spite of the ladies’ protests, drab tights and black gaiters. His namo was John 
Foster"— Extract from a letter of Mr. Edward Chapman (of the firm of Chap~ 
man and Halt) to Mr. Dickens, as quoted in FoRste R's Life of Dickens, vol. |, 
ch. 6 (Philadelphia edition). 


Page 00,—In the New-York ound Tuble for November 11, 1965, Dr. R. Shel- 
ton Mackenzie published a statement, that the plan and the main characters of 
Oliver Twist originated with Cruikshank the artist, who, previously to the writing 
of that novel, had made a series of drawings, containing portraits of Fagin, Bill 
Sikes, the Artful Dodger, &e.; the Intention being, to show, in this way, the Ifo of 
& London thief without a single line of letterpress, He further stated, —on the 
suthority of Mr. Cruikshank, — that Dickens, on seeing these drawings, changed 
the whole plot of story he had {a coutemplation, and obtained permixsion to 
write up to as many of the designs as he thought would sult his purpose.” Br, 
Forster, in his Life of Dickens, styles this a wonderful story," and says that it 
calumniates the distinguished artist on whom {t is fathered, and that it is only to 
be fitly characterized by an unpolite word of three letters. Mr, Cruikshank, how- 
ever, in m letter to the London Z¥mes, under the date of December 21, 1871, 
defends Mr. Mackenzie from “such a gross imputation,” acknowledges that he 
did tell that gentleman that he was “the originator of the story of Oliver Twist,” 
‘snd proceeds to substantiate his claims to the honor, 


PAOK 106,—The Garlands in The Old Curionity Shop are portraits of a family 
sith whom Dickens, when a boy, had lodgings during « portion of the time tha 
hie father was confined in the Marshalsea Prison. Mr. Garland was an Intolvent- 
sourt agent, who lived in Lant Street, in the Borough: “he was @ fut, goods 
‘uatured, kind old gentleman, Howas lame, and had a quiet old wife; and he had 
Avery innocent grown-up son, who was lame too.” — See Foust ex's Life of Dicky 
ms, vo). 1, pp. 09, 00, 








PAGE 172, —In the rame novel, the charncter of the Marchioness is also drawn 
from life. She represents an orphamgirl, from the Chatham Workhouse, who 
waited on Mr. John Dickens and his family in the Marshalsea, and who was 
romarkablo for her sharp little worldly yet kindly ways.— See FOR#TERH'S LAfe of 
Dickens, vol. f, p. @. 

Cy 


Git The Wickens Dictfonary. 





Pace 2%. —“ Captain Cattle was one David Mainland, master of a: < 
man, who was introduced to Dickens on the day whon, with Thomas ; 
Daniel Mactiso, Jobin Leech, Thomas Powell, and Samuel Rogers, be 
Crosby Hall, Bihopgate Street, the restoration of which had then (1642) beew come 
ploted with grent taste and skill, ‘This ts all that remains of the dwelling of Eehard 
ILI, repentediy mentioned by Shakspeare. .. . The party, my exact informant tells 
me, proceeded from Crosby Hall to the adjacent London Tavern, where, at the 
proper charge of Mr. Thomas Chapman, Bathe and Hreach supplied a lunch. Of 
the six who constituted that soclol party, only one [3fr, Powell] survives. O« 
that day, however, Dickens * booked ? Captain Cuttle; though he did not appear ta 
Dombey end Son until five years later." — Mackunzin, Life of Dickens, p. 202. 





Pace 271,“ Mr. Dombey is supposed to represent Mr. Thomas Chapman, 
ship-owner, whose offices were opposite the Wooden Midelipman, I had the 
honor of meeting 3fr. Chapman, at diuner (at Lough’s the sculptor); and the 
rigidity of his manner was only equalled by that of his form; he aut or stood, a4 
the case might be, bolt upright, ax if he knew not how to bend,—as stiif, fn finet, wa 
Af he had swallowed the drawing-room poker in his youth, and had never digested 
It. Ax if to make Mr. Chapman undoubtedly identical with Dombey, we have, 
as messenger of the commercial house of Dombey S& Son, one Perch, actually 
taken from a funny little old chap, named Stephen Lule, who wus part clerk, part 
messenger, in Mr, Chapman’s office." — Mackanxt, Life of Dickens, pp. 201, 312. 


PAGu £72. —“* Old Sol Gills was intended for a little fellow named Norie, who kept 
a very «mall shop in Leadenhall Street, exactly opposite the office of Jobs Chap 
man & Co.,in which * the stock in trade comprised chronometers, barometers, tele 
xcopes, compasses, charts, maps, sextants, quadrants, and speciinens of every Ikind 
of instruments used La the working of a ehip's course, or the keeping of @ ehip's 
reckoning, or the prosecuting of # ship's discoveries.’ In front of this small shop 
stands a figure, carved In wood, and curiously painted, of a miniature midshipman, 
with @ huge quadrant in his hand, as if about taking an observation. What te 
more, the little shop and the Wooden Midshipman may be seen, br the earlous, 
adorning Leadenhall Street, to this day, I speak of the Wooden Afidshipman ms 
Teaw him in 1s, He may have been swept away by what is called“ improve- 
mont.) — MACKENZIE, Life of Dickens, p. 202. 








PAGE 318.— Dora Spentow had an original In the person of » young laity with 
whom Dickens fell in Jove in his youthful days, white practising ns n Inworeporter. 
“He, too,” saya Forster (L4fe af Dickens, vol. i, p. 3),"had his Dora at apparently: 
the same hopeless elevation, striven for as the only thing to be attained, and even 
more unattainable, for neither did he succeed, nor, happily, did abe die; but the 
‘one idol, like the other, supplying @ motive to exertion for the time, and otherwixe 
opening out to the {dolater, both in fact and fletion, a highly anaubstantial, happy, 
foolish time, 1 used to laugh, and tell him T had no belfof in any but the book 
Dora, until the fneident of a sudden reappearance of the real one an/\is lift, nearly 
«ix y after Copperfield was written, convinced me there had been a more actual 
‘oundation for thone chapters of his book thun I was ready to auppose.” Of the 
tady referred to, Mr. Dickens himself told Mr. Forster, “ Without, for @ moment, 
acerely beliering that ft would have been better if we had never got separated, 1 
cannot see the occuston of 0 nich emotion ws I should see any one eles. No one 
van imayine, fo the most distant degree, what pain the recollection gure me tx 
Copperfeld ; and, Just ax I can never open that book as I open any other book, & 


























Avvenda. 45 


‘exnnot see the face (eren at four and forty), or hear the voloe, without going 
wandering away over the ashes of ull that youth and hope fn the wildest man- 
ner.” In Léttle Dorrit, however, he afterwards drew, from the same original, the 
‘very different portrait of Flora Finching. 


race ee ee eee ayia 
David Copperfield’s schoolmate and friend, Is supposed to har 
tho late Sr-Thomas Noon Talloord one of Mr, Desens eles and moet fatinate 
friends. 


FAGM 411,—This name is everywhere incorrectly written by Mr. Dickens St. 
Evrémonde or Evrémonde. The proper orthography is Lvremonde, which repre 
sents & decidedly different pronunciation, 

- 





A Classed £ 





st of Characters, Ete, 


Nore. —The following lst embraces only a portion of the names contained tn 
Dickens's novela and shorter tales, Not a fow names are omitted, as being quite 
unclassifiable; othere, ss belonging to persons, places, or things altogether tnsignifi- 
cant; others again, because, if brought together at all, they could only be 40 under 
headings of very little interest or importance, Incomplete —designediy incomplete 
—As tho list 4s, however, it 1s thought that the groupings it presents will be found 
to be both curlous, and useful for reference, 

‘Tho tales tn which the names occur may easily be ascertained by means of the 
‘Goneral Index on page 657. 


Actors.—Mostor Orummles; Master Poroy Crammles; Vincent Crammies; Mr. 
Folate; Jom Hutley; Alfred Jingle; John; Jem Larkins; Thomas Lenvilie; Mr. 
Loggins; Nicholas Nickleby; Mr. Pip; P. Baloy Family; Smike; Mr. Snevellice!; 
Mr. Saittlo Timberry; Mr. Wopsle, 

Actresses. — Miss Belvawney; Miss Bravassa; the Compact Enchantress; Minette 
Crammles;' Mins Gazingl; Mrs. Gradden; Miss Ledrook; Mrs. Lenville; Hearl- 
‘atta Petowkor; Miss Snevelifect. 

Actuary. —Mr. Meltham, 

Adventurers, — Mr. Jinkina; Alfred Lammle, 

Acronauts.—Mr. Green; Mr, Green, Juntor, 

Alderman. —Mr. Cute, 

Amanuensis.—Caddy Jellyby. 

Americans. — Mr, Bevan; Julius Washington Merry woather Bib; Jefferson Bre: 
Mrs. Jefferson Brick} Osoar Buffum; Cyrus Choke; Hannibal Chollep; Mime 
Codger; Colonel Diver; Doctor Ginery Dunklo; General Finddock; Gotooe, 
Gropor; Mre. Hominy; Mr. Ixxard; Mr. Jodd; Captain Kedgick; La Fayews 
Kettle; Mr. Norris and family ; Major Pawkins; Mrs. Pawkine; Profesor Piper 
Elijah Pogram; Zephaniah Seadder; Putnam Saif ; Mins Topplt, 

Apprentices.—Noah Claypole; Mark Gilbert; Hugh Graham; Sim Tapperts, 
Oliver Twist; Dick Wilkins. 

Architects. — Martin Cbuzzlewit; Both Pecksnttf; Tom Pinch; John Westlock. 

Articulator of bones, etes— Mr, Venus, 

Astrologer. —Mr. Mooney. 

Auctioneer, — ‘Thomas Bapees, 

















48 She Wickens Mictlonarp. 


Authors, ote, — Theodosius Butler; Misa Codger; David Copperfiel2* Mr.Curdle; 
Mrs, Hominy; Mra, Leo Muntar; Miss Topplt; Professor Mullis, | 


Bables.— Frederick Charles William Kitterbell; Sally Tettorby; Alexander Mao 
Stinger. 

Bachelors.—Georgo Churzlewit; Nleodomus Dumps, the Blogle Gentleman 
Jobn Jarndyce; Michacl; Newman Nogga; Mr. Saunders; Felix ‘Tapkion 
‘Tackicton; Mr. Topper; Watkins Tottle. 

Bailiff. —Solomon Jacobs. 

lad-seller, ote.—Mr. Weg 

Bankers. —Jowiah Rounderby; Mr. Meagles; Mr, Merdio; Tolleon and Ga, 

Barbers. —Crofts; Jinkinson; Mr. Blithers; Poll Sweediepips, 

Bar-matds,— Becky; Miss Martin. 

Beadlos.—Mr. Bumble; Mr. Bung; Mooney; Simmons; Sownds; Sowster. 

Begging-letter writer. —Mr. Southeote. 

Bird-fanclor. —Voll Bwoedleptps. 

Blind persons. — Bertha Plummer; Mr. Sampson Dibble; Stagg. 

Boarding-boure keopers.—Mcs. Pawkios; Mea. Tibbs; Mra. Todgers. 

Boobies. — entley Drammle; Kdmund Sparkler, 

Boots, — Bailey, Junlor; Cobbs; Tom Sparks; Sam Weller, 

More. —Mr, Barlow. | 

Brokers.— Mr. Brogley; Clariker; Fixem; Wilkins Masher; Fascination Pledge 
by; Mr. Gauleton; Frank Simmory; Grandfather Smaliweed; Tom ‘Tix, 

Barglars. — See HOvarsaeaxens, 

Butlors.—David; Giles; Nicholas. 








Carpenters.— Thomas Joy; Samuel Wilkins. 

Carriers. —Mr. Barkls; John Peerybingle. | 

‘Chambermaid.— Mrs, Pratchett, 

Chandler.—Tom Codd. 

Charity-boys.—Noah Claypole; Roba Toodle, 

Charwomen.—Mrs, Bangham; Mrs. Blockson. 

Cheap-jacks.—Dootor Marigold; Willum Marigold. : 

Cheanixts,—"Thomas Groflin; Mr. Redlaw. 

Church, — Little Bethel, 

Circus performers, ete.—E. W. B, Childers; Emma Gorlon; Bignor Jupe; 
Master Kidderminster; Josephine Sleary ; Mr. Sleary; Mian Woolford, 

Clergymen, ete. —Mr. Chadband; Horace Crewlor; Septimus Crisparkles Alfred 
Feodor; Brother Gimblet; Verity Hawkyart; Melehiyedesh Howler; Mr. Long | 
‘Ears; Frank Milvey; George Silverman; M-. Silverstone; Mr, Suigyina; Charles | 
‘Timeon. 

Clerks, ete. — Mr, Adame; Clarence Bamacie; Mr, Baxeant; Bitser; Young Bifghts 
Alexandr Briggs; James Carker; John Carker; Frank Cheoryble; Mr. Chucks | 











wuffey; Mr. Clark; Bob Cratchit; Mr. Dobble; Walter Gay; ‘Tom Girad= 
‘William Guppy; Uriah Ikeep; Mr. Jones; Mr. Jackson; Me. Flake; "Dim 
ater; Jarvis Lorry; Mr. Lowten: Mr. Mallard; Wilkine Micawbers 
Augustus Minos; Mr, Morfin; Nicholas Nickleby; Newman Noges; Nathanlel 
Pipkin; ‘Thomas Potter; Bartholomew Smallweed; Putnam Smif; Mr. Smithy 
Robert Bmalthers; Horatio Sparking; Jobn Spatter; Dick Swtvoller; Mr, ‘Pilfey* 
‘Tom; Alfred Tomkins; Mr. Topple; John Wenmick; Me, Wicks; Reginale 
Wiifer; Mr. Wisbottle. — See also Pamsm Crema. 
Clients. — Mr. Watty; Michac: Wanton; Amelia; Mike, 












Elassev Dist of Characters. m9 


Conchmen, ete, — William Barker; George; Joe; Martin; Sam; Wilk Sim 
‘mons; Tipp; Tom; Tony Weller; Wiliam, 

Coal-dealer, — Nicholas Tolrumble. 

Collectors. —Mr. Buille; Mr. Lillyrick; Mr. Pancke; Mr. Rugg. 

Companions, —Mra, General; Mary Graham; Kato Nickleby, 

Constables. — Black; Darby; Green; Daniel Grummor; Rogers; White; WIL 
Matas. 

Convicts, — Alico Brown; Compeyson; John Rdmunds; Kags; Abol Magwitoh. 

Corm-chandlers. — Octavius Budden; Wilkins Micawber; Unole Pumbleshook. 

Coroner. — Mr. Wackley. 

- Corporations, ete, — Anglo-Bengales Dixiatereated Loan and Life Inenrance Com. 
pany; Circumlocution Offloe; Eden Land Corporation; Human Interest Brothers; 
Inostimable Life Assurance Company; United Grand Junction Lirriper and Jack» 
man Great Norfolk Parlor Lino; United Metropolitan Improved Hot Muffin and 
Crumpot Baking and Punotual Delivery Company. — See Socrertxs. 

‘Costamer. —Solomon Lucas. 

Cricketers,—Mr. Dumkias; Laffey; Poter Magnus; Mr. Podder; Mr. Staples 
‘Mr, Struggles, 

(Cripples. Phebe; Tiny Tim; Fanny Cleaver; Gruff and Glum; Mr. Werx. 


Dancing-masters. — Mr, Baps; Signor Billenethi; Prince Turreydrop, 

Deaf-mute. —Sophy Marigold. 

Detectives. — Mr. Inspector Bucket; Sergeant Dornton; Sergeant Fendall; In- 
apector Mold; Sorgoant Mith; Mr. Nalgett; Rogers; Inspector Stalker; Sergeant 

Mr. Tatt; Inspector Wield; Witcher, 

—Mr. Lanptale, 

Doge. — Boxer; Bull'eeyo: Diogovess Jip; Merry! 

Dressmakers. — Fanay Cleaver (dolls? dressmaker); Mise Knag} Madame Mant 
Mal; Amelia Martin; Kate Niokleby; Miss Simmond, 

Drivers. — See Coactmns, eta. 

Drankards.— Mrs. Blackpool; Mr. Dolla; John; Krock; Wanten, 

Drysalters.— Brother Gimblet; Verity Unwkyard, 

Dustman, —Nlcodemus Botfin, 

Dwarfs.—Quilp; Misa Moweher, 











Editors, eto. —Jefforson Brick; Colonel Diver; Mr. Pott; Mr. Stark. 

Emigrants,—Susannah Cleverly; William Cleverly; Dorothy Dibble; Bampeon 
Dibble; Jessto Jobson; Wiltshire; Anastasia Weedlo, 

Engine-driver.—Mr. Toodle. 

Engineers. — Daniel Doyce; Edwin Drood, 





Fairies, — Grandmarina; Tape. 

Farmers.—Old Bensvn John Browdle; Godfrey Nickleby; Martin Stokes. 

Fishermen. — Ham Peggotty; Daniel Poggotty, 

Yootmen.— Mercury; Mussle; John Smauker; Thomas Towlineon; Turkle 
Wohitters, 

Vops.— Fascination Fledgeby; Mr. Mantalinl; Mr, Toota, 

Forgers.—Mr. Pikey; Mr. Merdie, 

Blandols (or Rigaud); Madame Bonuclet; the Compacs 

‘Enchantress; Charles Darnay (or Evrémonde); Lucle Daruay; Ernest Defarge 

‘Thérkeo Defargo; Monsieur the Fucemaker; Théophile Gabello; Gaspard; Mar 

Aemolselie Hortense; Jncques (Ono, Two, Throe, Four, Five); Lagnier (or 

















550 Ebe Dickens Mietfonarg. 


‘Riguud); M. Loyal Derasscur; Alexander Manotto; Lucle Manetio; Mousees 
Mutuel; &t. Evnéimonde; P. Salcy Family; Corporal Théophile; the Vengeanze* 
‘Mopsleur the Veutrtloquist. 


Gamblers. —Joo Jowl; Isaac List; Mint Botery Trotwood's Husbaed; Little 
Nelv’s Grandiather, 

Gamekeeper.— Martin, 

Gardeners. — Mr. Choggs; Hunt; Wilkins. 

Gentiomon,— Mr, Tito Barnacle; Bir Joseph Bowley; Mr. Brownlow; Bir John 
Chostor; Sir Thomas Clubber; Hon, Mr. Crashton; Sir Leloestor Dediogk ; The 
‘Hon. Sparkins Flam ; Mr. Alexander Grasioglands; Mr. Grimwig; Gosifrey Hare- - 
dale; Sir Mulberry Hawk; Mastor Humphrey; Sir William Joltered ; Hon. Mr. 
Long Ears; Nlobolas Nickleby; Squire Nortoo; Samuol Pickwiok; Mr. John 
Podenap; Sir Matthew Papker; Jack Reddurn} Sir Barnet Blettles; the Hon. 
‘Wiimot Snipe; Sir Hookham Satvey; the Hon. Mr,.@uob; the Hon, Bob Stables; 
‘Mr. Melvin Twomlow; Mr, Wandio. 

Germans.—Baryn and Baroness von KoSldwethout; Straudesholm; Baros aad 
Baroness von Swillenhaneen. 

Glants.—Gog; Magog; Plokleson, 

Governesses.—Mrs. General; Miss Lane; Rath Pinch. 

Green-grooers,— Harris; Tommy; Richard Upwitch, 

Grocera.—Jacob Barwon; Mr, Blocker; Joseph Taggs. 

Groom, — Thomas. 

‘Guarda. — George; Joo. 














Maberdashers.—Mr. Omer; Mr, Phibba, 

Hangman, — Nod Dennis, 

‘Hop-geower.— Mr. Cheatle. 

Morse-Jockey. — Captain Maroon. 

Hostlors.—Ulngh; Mark Tspley. 

Housebreakers. —Toby Orackit; Bill Bikes. 

Housekeepers.—Mrs. Bedwin; Mise Benton; Molly; Mrs. Pipehin; Miss Pross; 
Mre. ouncewoll; Deg Sliderskew; Mrs. Sparelt; Kether Sammersony Mra, 
Tiokit; Agnos Wickileld. 

Hypocrites, — Charity Peckaniff ; Merey Pockaniff ; Seth Peckanlff ; Jullus Siinke 
ton, 


Impostor, —Blackey. 

irs, Clonnam; Mre, Crewlor; Mr, Gobler; Mrs, Grad- 
grind; Mrs 8kimpolo; Mr, ‘Tresham. 

Inventors. —Mr. Crinkles; Don Diego; Daniel Doyoe; John; Professor Queer 
speck; Mr. Tickle. 

Irishman, — Frederik O'Bleary. 

Tronmaster.~Mr. Rouncowell, 

Italians. —Glovannl Carlarero; John BapUlst Oavallotto, 











Jailer, —Mr. Akerman. 
Jows.—Bamoy; Fagin; Aaron Mesheok; Mr. Iiab. 
Judge, —Me. Justice Starelelgh. 

Soggler.— African Knifo-rwallowor; Sweet Williaa 
Surymen.— Thomas Groflin; Iuchard Upwiteh. 





Elassed Ast of Characters. 551 


Laborers, —Bayton; Will Fern; Joo; Wiltahire. 

Ladios.— Princess Alicia; Lady Bowley; Lady Clubber; Lady Dediock; Mra 
Gowan; Baroness von Koisldwothout; Mra. Meedio; Lady Faroway; Lady Sead 
were; Lady Skettlen; the Hon. Mrs, Gkewton; Lady Sauphanuph; Lady Tippins; 
Baroness von Swillenhanson. = 

Lamplighter. —Tom Grig. 

Landladies.—Mrs. Bardell; Mrs. Billickin; Madame Bouslot; Mrs. Cradstock 
Mrs. Crupp; Mra. Lirriper; Mrs. Lupin; Mrs. MacStinger; Mra. Noakes; Mise 
Abbey Pottervon; Mary Ann Rade; Mrs. "Tibbs; Mrs. Todgers; Mra, Whimple; 
‘Mrs. Willtamson; Mise Worenbam 

‘Landlords, — Bark; The Black Li james George Bogsby; Christopher Oasby . 
M, Loyal Dorasour; James Groves; W. Grabble; Captaln Kedglck; Mr. 7 
Mellows; Mr, Licensed Victualler; John Willot, 

Laundressea. —Mrv. Dilber; Mra. Parkina; Mrs. Stubbs; Mrs. Bwoeney. 

Law-stationers,— Mra, Harrie; Mr. Soagsby, 

Law-student.— Percy Noakes, 

Law-writers.—Csptain Hawdon; Tony Jobling. 

Lawyers,—Sully Brass; Sampson Brass; Samuel Briggs; Serjoant Bustue; Aya 
ney Carton; Clarkson; Thomas Cragys; Mr. Dodson; Mr. ipa; Mr. Four 
‘Hiram Grewgious; Uriah Heep; Mr. Jaggors; Mr, Jorkins; Conversation Kenge 
Mortlner Lightwood; Perey Noakes; Josoph Overton; Owen Overton; Solomon 
Poll; Mr. Perker; Mr. Phankey; Mr. Ragg; Mr. Skimpin; Jonathan Gaitche, 
Serjeant Saubbin; Francis 8penlow; Uenry Spiker; Mr. Stryrer; Mr. Tang) 
Thomas Traddles; Mr. Tulkingborn; Mr. Vholes; Mr. Wickfield; Eugene 
Wrayburn. 

Literary Productions. —Considerations on tho Polloy of removing the Duty on 
Beeswax; Last Moments of the Learned Pig; Ode to an Expiring Frog; Speou 
Jatlons on the Sources of the Hampstead Ponda, with some Observations on the 
‘Thoory of Tiitledats ; the Thorn of Anxiety. 

Locksmith, — Gabriel Varden. 

Lodging-house Keepers, — Bully Bark; Mev. Billickin; Mr. Bulph; Mrs. Lir 
riper; Misa Wozenham, 

Loris. — See Noweeaen. 

Lunatics, Mr. Dick (Richard Babley); Tho Gentleman tn Smallclothes; Milas 
Flite. 




















‘Magistrates, — Alterman Cute; Mr. Fang; Mr. Nupkins. 

‘Manufacturer.—Joslah Bounderby. 

‘Matrons of Workhouses, ~Mrs. Corney; Mrs. Mann, 

Mayors. — George Nupkins; Joseph (or Owen) Overton; Mr, Bolger; Mr. Tuk 
rumble. 

Medical Students. —Ben Allen; Alfred Heathfield; Jack Hopkin; Bob Bawyer, 

Member of Congress. — Elijah Pogram. 

Members of Parliament. — William Buffey; Cornelfus Brook Dingwall; Mr 

‘ir Matthew Pupker; Sir Barnet Skettles; Honest Tom; Hamilton 

See also NopuRMEn, 

—Barbox Brothers (Mr. Jackson); Cheeryble Brothers; Clarriler 
Arthur Cleonsm; Mr, Dombey; Mr, Fozstwig; Mr. Thomas Gradgrind; Mr, 
Murdstone; Mr. Miles Owen; Herbert Pocket; Mr. Quinton  Servoge. 

Messengers. —Jerry Crunchor; Jenkinson; Mr. Perch, 

Milliners.—Miss Knag; Madame Mantalini, 

Military Men.—Cuptain Adams; Matthew Bagnet; Major Bagstock; Captara 




















652 She Mickexrs Bictlomary 





‘Bley; Major Banks; Captain Boldwig; Colonel Bulder; General 
‘Hannibal: Doudledick; 


Hawdon; 

Kedgick; the Recruiting Set 1b; George Koancewell; Lieatensnt 
‘Wilmot Solpe; Lieutenant Tappleton; Captain Taunton; Corporal Thophiles 

Jon Willet, | 


slewlt; Arthur Gride; Ralph Nickleby; Berooge; 
Grandfather Smaliweed, 


Mistressen,— Allos Brown; Little Em’ly; Mistress Alloo; Nan. 

‘Murderers. —Jonas Chusslowit; Gaspard; Bradicy Headstone; Mademolsclla. 
Hortense; Captain Murderer; Rigaud; Mr, Rudge; BUN Bikes; Sulioe Biakiom 
William Warden, 

Musical Performers.— Antonio; Matthow Bagnet; Banjo Bones; Mrs. Banjo 
Bones; Mr. Brown; Mr. Cape; Brederick Dorrit; Mr. Evans; Sy) 
Jobin Jasper; Mire Jenkine; Slgnor Lobskint; Miss A. Metvtitevon; 
‘Wilkins Micswber; shi Pustvaeh nas. dua] Mee age Se 
‘Miss Tippin; Mr. and Mrs. B. Wedgiagion, 





















‘Nantical-Instrament maker, —Solomon Gils. 

‘Newsmen, ete. — Adolphas Tetterby ; a esoheh Saeeme 

(seni —Katanswill Gazetee; Eatanawill Independent; New-York Rowdy 

journal. 

Neblemen, ote.— Lord Decimus Tite Barnacle; Prince Bear; Lord Boodle; Prines 
Ball; Prince Certain Personto; Coualn Feenis; Baron von Kolldwethout; Mon- 
seigneur; Lord Mutanhed; Lord Peter; Marquis Bt. Evrémonde; Count Smorl- 
tork; Lord Snigsworth; Lord Lancaster Stfitstalking; Baron you Swillenhansen; 
Lord Frederick Verlsopht; Kiog Watkins the Firat, 

‘Rotaries,— Abel Garland; Mr. Withorden. 

‘Nurses. —Mre. Bangham; Mra. Blockitt; Dawos; Sally Flanders; Flopson; Sairey. 
Gamp; Merey; Millers; Botsey Prig; Mrs. Prodyit; Mrs, Thingummy; Mra 
Poly Tvodie; Mrs, Wiokbam, 


O14 Maids —Miss Barbary; Bertnthla (or Berry); Rows Dartle; Volumnia Ded- 
lock; Miss Txvisham; Miss Lillerton; Min Jane Mundatone; Miss Anastasia 
Rugg; Miss Skiffios; Judy Smallweed; Miss Olnrisss Spenlow; Miss 
Bpenlow; Mise Lucretia Tox; Mise Wade; Rachael Wardle; Mise 

Orators,—Mr, Eek Mage; Mr. Slackbridge. 

Orphans.—Jobaoy; Liliana, 








Pages.— Alphonse; Withors, 

Painters. —Ienry Gowan; Miss La Croovy. 

Parish-clorka.—Eolomon Daley; Nathaniel Pipkin; Mr. Wopale. 

Paupers — Anny; Little Dick; Mra. Fibbetaon; Martha; John Edward Nandy: 
Onkem Head; Chief Refractory; Retractory Number Two; Old Sally; Mes. 
‘Thingummy ; Oliver Twist. 

Pawnbrokers. —Darid Crimple; Mr. Henry; Pleasant Riderhood. 

Penaloners, —Mr. Battens; Mra. Quinch; Mrs, Saggors. 

Vew-opener, — Mrs, Miff 

pista. — Bigwig Family; Luke Houeythander; Mra, 

‘Wra, Pardiggio; Mr, Qualo; Miss Wisk, 














Classed Rist of Characters, 553 


Philosophers.—Dootor Joddior; Mr. Mooney, 

Phyxiclans.— Bayham Badger; Mr. Obiillp; Ginery Daukle; Doctor Grammhige: 
Doctor Haggage; Joba Jobling; Doctor Kutankurnagen; Doctor Lumbey} Alex. 
‘ander Manoito; Mr. Mikins; Parker Peps: Doctor Soomup; Joe Specks; Doctor 
‘Toorelt; Doctar Wosky.— See also SURGEONS. 

Plrate.—LleatenantColonel Robin Redforth. 

Plekpockets, — See Turkvns, 

Pilot. —Mr. Bulph. 

Places (cariows).— Ball's Pond; Borrioboola Gha; Chinks's Basin; Chambledon 
Rquare; Clolsterham; Dingley Dell; Dallborough; Eatanewill; Kien; Great 
‘Winglobury; Grogewig; Haven of Philanthropy; MIN Mond Bank, Chinks's 
Basto; Mugby Junction; Muggleton; Nameleaston; New Therwopyim; Old- 
castle; Old Hell Shaft; Old Mint; Pavillonstone; Plashwater Welr MUI; 
Vocket-Breaches; Pod's End; Poptar Walk; Port Middlebay; Princess's Place; 
‘Rate’ Costlo; Stagg’s Garden ; Stisfun’s Acre; Tomall-alone’s; Tucket's Terrece; 
Verbouity; Wildarnese Walk. 

Plasterer. — Thomas Plorniah, 

Poets.—Mr, Slum; Augustus Snodgrass; Mre. Leo Hunter, 

Policemen. — Sergeant Dornton; Inspector Field; Mr. Inspector; Sergeant Miths 
Parker; Peacoxt; Quickear; Sharpeye; Inspector Suulker; ‘Trampfoot; WU 
Mame; Sorgoant Witahem. 

Political parties, — Ketanswill Buffs; Eatanswitl Blues, 

Politicians. — Lord Boodle; Horatio Fizkin; Major Pawkins; Mr. Rogers; Samus! 
Blomkey. 

Pony. — Whisker. 

Pertors, ete, —Bullamy; “Lamps;" Togby; Toby Veck. 

Postmaters,—Tom Cobb; Monsieur Gabelle, 

Posthulstress.— Mrs. Toralinson. 

Pot-boy.— Bob Gliddery. 

Prisoners.— Mr, Ayresicigh; Jot Baptist Caralotto; the Chancery Prisoner; 
‘Wiltiam Dorrit; Charles Evrémonde; Doctor Haggage; George Heyling; Captaty 
Hopkins; Horace Kinch; Mr. Martin; Wilkins Micswber; Mr. Mivina; Neddy; 
Mr. Price; Rigaud; Mr. Simpson; Smangle; Mr. Walker; Mr, Willis, 

Prostitutes: — Bolla; Bot; Emily; Martha Endell; Biixs Grimwood; Nan; Nancy. 

Public Houses. — Black Boy and Btomachache; Black Lion; Blue Boar; Wve 
Dragon; Bootjack and Countenance; the Bush; the Crozier; Dolphin's Head; 
Golden Cross; Good Republican Brutusof Antiquity; Great White Horse; Holly 
‘Treo; Jolly Bargemen; Jolly Boatmen; Jolly Bandboye; Jolly Tapley; Light- 
erman’s Arms; Marquis of Granby; Maypole; National Hotel; Notmag-grater; 
Original Pig; the Peacock; Pegasus’ Arnie; Pig and ‘Tinderbox; St. James 
Arms; Surscon’s Head; Setting Moon; Bix Jolly Fellowship Porters; Stamjam 
Coffeo-House; Sol's Arma; the Temeraire; Three ripples; ‘Three Jolly Barge- 
anen; ‘Travellers’ Twopenny; Valiant Soldier; White Hart; White Conduit 
noose; White Horse Ovllar; Winglebury Arma, 

Pugilist. — Tho Gane Chicken. 

Pupits.—Adams; Belling; Bitheretone; Biter; Mra, Black; Bobbo; Bolder; 
Briggs; Kowa Bud; Codbey; David Copperfield; Cripples; George Demplo; 
Dumbledon; Mins Hdwarde; Richard Evans; Adelina Faroway; Mise Ferdinand: ’ 
‘Misa Prost; Miss Giggh pally Globson ; Graymarsh ; Harry; Charley Hexam; 
Miss Jennings; Johnson; Helena Landiows; Jommy Jackman Lirriper; Mary 
Aune; Mawls; Maxdy; Mobbs; John Owen; Mise Pankey; Mia Reynolds; Mise 
Rickitts; Miss Ahepant; Karnet kettles, Janior; Smike; Miss Smithers ; Bophia 

a 






























B54 Che Dickens Mictlonare. 


Joe Sprexs; Stoerfarth; Bob Tartar; Tomkine; Toots; Tozer; Traddies; Gran — 


ville Wharton; White, 


Ranger.— Phil Parkes. 

Kaven.— Grip. 

Receivers of Stolen Goods, — Bully Bark; Fagin; Joo; Mr, Lively. 

Reporter. —Dsrid Copperfield. i 

Kealdences, ete. —Adel Cottage; Amella Cottage; Blunderstone Rookery; Bot: 
fin's Bower; Chemney Wold; the Den; the Rimses; Fizkin Lodge; the Growl 
‘ery; Gumtion House; Harmony Jail; Hogbton ‘Towers; Manor Farm; Mudfog 
Hall; Norwood; Oak Lodge; Rose Villa; Rastio Lodge; Gatie House; Stone 
Lodge; tho Warren; Wooden Midshipman. 

Resurrectionist.— Jerry Cruncber, 

Rioters. Ned Dennis; Hogh; Barnaby Rudge; Sim Tappertit. 

Robe-malker.—Mr. Jennings. 


Baddlers. — Old Lobbs; Tipkisson, 

Schools, —Dotheboys Hall; Minorva House; Nuns’ Houme; Salem House; West 
wate House, 

Bolences. —Ditchwateriatics; Umbugology. 

Seamen, ete. — Old Bill Barley; Captain Boldbeart; William Boosey; Mr. Balph; 
Captain Bunsby; Captain Cuttle; Dando; Dark Jack; Mercantile Jack; Job 
Potterson; Captain Puntay; Lieutenant Tartar, 

Secretaries, — Ferdinand Barna-lo; Mr. Fish; Mr. Gashford; John Harmon; Mr. 
Jennings; La Fayette Kettle; Jonas Mudge; Mr. Wobbler. 

Bervants.— I, Male, Benjamin Britaln; Brittlos; Deputy; Jotm Derrick; Der 
em; Jeremiah Filotwineh; Old Glodb ; John Grueby ; James; Joe (the Fat Boy); 
John; Littmer; the Native; Kit Nubbles; Peak; Pepper; Phil; Praffie; Tom 
Bott; Sloppy; Amike; Phil Squod; William Bwidger; Mark Taploy; Tinkler} 
Robin Toodle; Job Trotter; Tungay; Samuel Weller. —Ii. Female Jane 
Adams; Agnes; Anno; Barbara; Becky; Berinthia; Betsey; Biddy; Chmrloties 
Clickitt ; Mary Daws; Emma; Affory Plintwinch; Flowers; Goodwin ; Gusters 
Hannah; Madomoleolle Hortoneo; Jano; Janct; Winifred Madgers;theMarehio 
nets; Martba; Mary; Mary Anre; Caroline Maxey; 'Moliag Misa Miges; Clem- 
ency Newcome; Busan Nipper; Mary Anne Puragon; Clara Pegpotty; Mary 
Anno Perkinsop; Phabe; Priscilia; Mrs. Rachael; Sally Itairsganoo; Robinson} 
Rosa; Tilly Blowboy; Betsey Soap; Gophin; Willing Bophy; Tamaroo; Tate 
tyeoram. 


Kextons, ete. — Hill; Old David; Gabriel Grad, 

Sharpers.— See BwrxDLEMs. 

Bheritts Officers.—Blathers; Dubbley; Duff; Mr. Namby; Mr. Neeckett; Mr, 
Sealey; Mr-Smouch; Tom, 


Shoe-binder. — Jemima Evans. 
op. — Wooden Midshipman, 

Shopkeepers, — Glovann!Carlavero; Mre. Chickenstalker; Mrs. Chivery; Augaa 
tus Cooper} Ernest Defargo; Lite Nell’s Grandfather; Mra. Plorniah; Pleasant 
Riderhood ; Straudenbetm; Mra, Tugby. + 

Bhowmen. etc.—Tom Codiin; Mr. Grinder; Mr. Harris; Mrs. Jarley} 

Mim} Vullin. 

Shrews.—Mra. Bumble; Mrs. Joo Gargery; Mrs, ManStingor; Mire, 

Mise Migge; Mrs, Radio; Saruh; Mrs. Buageby; Mrs. 
Bquecrs; Mrs, Bqueers, Mra, Varden, 








Classed Rat of Characters. 555 


Bmiths.— Richard; Joe Gargery; Dolge Orllek; John. 

Bocieties. —All-Muggleton Cricket Club; Finches of the Grove; Convened Chief 
‘Composite Committee of Central and District Philanthropists; Glorious Apollos, 
Infant Bonds of Joy; Ladies? Bible and Prayer-dook Distribution Society; Mas- 
ter Humphrey's Clock; Mr. Welles Wateb; Pickwick Club; "Prentice Kulights; 
Social Linen Box Committee; Suporannuated Widows; United Aggregate 
‘Tribunal; United Bull-Doge; United Grand Junction Ebenexer Temperance 
AAvoclation; Watertoaat Association of United Bympathizors, 

Spaniard. — Antonio, 

Spendthrift. —Edward Dorrit. 

SSples. — Roger Oly; Solomon Pross, 

Sportsman, — Nathaniel Winkle, 

Statisticians. — Mr. Filer; Mr. Kwakloy; Mr, X. Ledbrain; Mr. Slug. 

Stonographer.—David Copperfield. 

Steward.— Mr. Rudge; Job Potterson. 

Stoker. —Mr. Toodle. 

Stone-mason.— Durdles, 

Straw-bonnet maker, —Jemima Evans, 

Btreet-«weeper. — Jo. 

Stndent, — Edmund Denham. 

Sagar-baker.— Gabriel Parsons, 

Buitors in Chancery. — Richard Carstono; Ada Clare; Mian Fite; Mr. Gridley; 
‘John Jarndyce, 

Surgeons, — Mr. Kolght Bell; Mr. Dawson; Mr. Lewsome; Mr. Losberne; Doctor 
Payne; Doctor Slammer; Allan Woodcourt.— See alvo PaYaicraya 

Swindlers, ote.—Btackey; Mr. Bonney; Do'em) Fite-Whieker Morey; Alfred 
‘Jingle; Mr. Jinkins; Alfred Lammale; Mr, Merdle; Rigaud; Zephaniah Beadder; 
‘Montague Tigg; Job Trower; Cuptaln Walter Watore; Mr. Wolf. 








‘Tailors. —Mr. Omer; Mr, Trabb; Alexander Trott. 

‘Tapster. —Duvld Crimple. 

‘Faxidermint,—Mr. Venus. 

Teachers, oto, —Cornolia Biimber; Doctor Biimber; Mr. Blnkins; Old Cheese 
man; Mr, Creaklo; Mr. Cripples; Amelia ond Marla Crumpton; Mr. Dadson; 
Miss Donny; Miss Drowvey; Mr. Feoder; Miss Grimmer; Miss Gwynn; Brad- 
loy Headstone; Betty Higden; Latin-Grammar Master; Mrs, Lemon; Mr. 
M-ChoskumobiMt; Mr. Marton; Charles Mell; Mise Monflathers; the Mission 
Nottingall; Nicholas Nickleby; Emma Poscher; Professor Piper; Mr. Sharp; 
‘Waokford Squeers; Doctor Strong; Miss ‘Tomkins; Miss Twinkloton ; tho Missos 
‘Wacklos. — See also Govinxnsars, 

Temperance Reformers, — Anthony Humm ; Jooas Mudge; Brother Tadgor. 

Thieves. — Charley Bates; Bet; Tom Ohitting; Noah Claypole; John Dawkins 
(the Antful Dodger); Dootor Dundey; Aaron Meshek; Nancy; Mr. Shepherd 
son; Bill Bikes; Tally-ho Thompson; Karl of Warwick. 

Tondien,—Mr. Boots; Mr. Brewor; Mr. and Mrs, Camilla; Mra, Coller; Mr 
Flamwol!; Georgiana; Mr, Pluck; Surah Pocket; Mr. Pyke. 

Nobacconist. — Mise Chivery. 

Toy-maker.—Caled Plummer. 

Toy-merchant, — Tsokleton, 

‘Tramps. —John Anderson; Mra. Anderson. 

‘Turner. — Mr. Kenwige. 

‘Turnkeys, etc.—Mr, Akerman; Bob; John Chivery; Young John Ohivery 
‘Bolomon Pross; Tom Roker. 














556 She Pickens Mictlenary. 


‘Umbrella-maker.— Alexander Trott. 

Ondertakers.—Mr. Joram; Mr. Mould; Mr. Omer; Mr. Bowerberry; Tacker; 
‘Mr. Trabb. 

Osurers.—Antbony Chuzslewit; Arthor Gride; Ralph Nickleby; Grandfather 
Bmallweed. 


Vagabonds, etc.—John Anderson; Mr. Click; Bob Miles; Edward Twigge 
‘Winking Charley. 

Valots. — See SERVANTS. 

Verger.— Mr. Tope. 

Vessels. —The Beauty; the Cautious Clara; the Family; the Royal Skewer; the 
Scorpion; the Screw; the Gon and Heir, 

Vestrymen. — Mr. Chib; Osptain Banger; Mr. Dogginsoo; Mr.Magg; Mr. Tiddy- 
pot; Mr. Wigsby. 


‘Waitors.—Archbishop of Greenwich; Ben; Christopher; Esekiel; Jack; Jobn; 
‘Miss Piff; William Potkins; Mra. Solff ; Thomas; Miss Whiff ; William, 

‘Watermen.— Dando; Jesse Hexam; Mr. Lobley; Roger Ridecbood; Tommy. 

‘Weaver. — Stephen Blackpool. 

‘Wharfinger.— Mr. Winkle, senior. 

‘Wheelwright. — Mr. Hubble. 

‘Widowers. — Mr. John Dounce; John Podgers; Tony Weller. 

‘Widows. —Barbara’s Mother; Mrs. Bardell; Mrs. Bedwin; Mrs, Billickin; Mrs. 
Bloss; Mrs. Brandley; Mrs. Briggs; Mrs. Budger: Mrs. Clennam; Mrs. Coller; 
Mrs. Copperfield: Mrs. Corney; Mrs. Crisparkle; Lady Faroway; Mrs. Fielding; 
Flora Finching; Sally Flanders; Mrs. General: Mrs. Gowan; Edith Granger 
Mra, Gummidge; Mrs. Guppy; Mrs. Heep; Mra. Jintwin; Mrs. Marklebam; 
Mrs. Maplesono; Mrs. Mitts; Mrs. Nickleby; Mrs. Nubbles; Mrs. Pegier; Mrs. 
Skewton; Mrs. Sparsit; Mrs. Starling; Mrs. Bteerforth; Mrs, Taunton; Lady 
‘Tipping; Mrs. Tiaber; Mre. Wardle; Mrs. Woodeourt, 























General Index. 





* Waar a crowd of deathlem characters the children of his brain compose | What near 
‘vellous variety, distinotnoss, 1nterest, they pomess! ... And with whats rural temper 
of Kindness and maynanimity the great muster... treate(them)alt! . 

‘baso, the wicked, the cruel, are rather the objects of s malicious fun, & sportive, half-pity 
tng mockery, than of malignant scorn or vindictive hate. Pickwick, Kit Nubbles, Swivel 
Jer, Squocrs, Smtke, Oliver, Esther, Cheeryble, Skimpolo, Jamdyoe, Micawber, Boythorn 
and tho reat,—he rogarda then ail, and would induence us to repent them all, with the 
Aivino toleration and charity of Sature herself, who holds the same firmament above scoun- 
Gre! and salnt, aproads the same earth beneath fool and hero... . Such aman puts the 
‘human race in his debt, He emancipates, enriches, and bleses us." — Wrtazam I Avome 


Adel Cottage, 192, 

Adams, ‘sf 

Adams, Captain, 124. 

Adams, Jane, 154, 156. 

Adama, Mr., 417. 

‘African, Knite-Swallower, 124. 

‘Agua, The, See Wemmick, Mer, stor, 


Amgerswaytor, 08, 
Agnes, 8, 

‘Akorman, Mr., 106. 
‘Akershem, Sophronia, 440, 
‘Alice, 124. 

‘Alice; Mintreas, 15%. 
Alicia, Princess, oa. 
Alicurapaine, Mirs., 604. 
‘Allen, Arabella, 
‘Allen; Beajamta, 29. 
‘Al-Muggloton Crteket Olob, 94, 
‘Alphonso, 224. 

‘Amelta, 1i, 435. 























Babley. Richard, 201. 
Bachelor, The, 104. 

Badger, Bayham, 332, 
Sees 
ier 





falta, 3. 
Bagnet, Matthew, 333, 


Balley, Junior, 313. 
‘216, 





Barbary, Miss, 

Bannox Baorners, and BAgBox Bao 
THERA AND OO., 405. 

Barbox lrothers, 45, 

‘Bardoll, Mrs, Martha, 20, 

‘Bardell, ‘Tommy, 21. 

Bark, Bully, 

Marker, Mint Panny, 641. 

Barker, William, ¢. * 

jaticis, Clara Peggotty. See Poggotty 

Clara, 243. 


Barkls, Mr., 372, 
Barley, Clara, 435. 








558 








a 
Baytoa, 


Dell, Mr, Ks 


ty 118. 

Bell Yard, 396. 

Bella, 8. 

Beis, ip, 

Police, Maser, 135 
jelvawney,, 

Ben, 372 





fina, 

Berry, Sr Bortothta a, 

jerry, See . 

Bet, or Botsoy, OL. 

Bewwey, 2. 

Beverley: Mtg. See Logging, Mr. 4 
evorley, Mr. See Mir 4, 

Bib, gal lua Washington Merryweather, 


Biddy, 425, 

Higby, Mrs., $27, 

Bigwig Family, The, 629. 
Biler, | See Tooale, Robin, 277, 





Blaok, 2 

Binok, Mrs., 604. 

Black'Boy and Stomach-Ache 118 
Black Lion, 196, 203, 

Biackey, Gl 

Blackpool, Mirs., 961. 





fhe Dickens Mictlonary. 


Bottin, Nicod 

Bopity, sanes voce Oa 

Boum, Mire, 95t- 

Boldheatt, Cuptatn, 6k. 

Holawie, aptain, Bi, 

Bolte, Morris. See Cagpote, Soa, 88, 
re, Morris. 

Bones, Mr. Banjo, 420, 

Bones, Mp. 3 jo, 490. 








Borum, Mr., 125. 

Borum, Mra., 125. 

Bottlenoved ‘Ned. See Twlgger, Ba 

‘ward, 640. 

Bonclet, Madame, £80. 

Bounderby, Jostah, 863. 

Bounderby, Louisa. See Gradgeind, 
eatin 200, as 

“Bounty, The, 

Rowley: Lady: 40, 

Bowley, Master, 249, 

Bowley, Bir Joseph, 140, 

- Bowwows, Gone to the demnition,* 

Boxer, 202. 

Bor av Moomr, 408, 





General Enver, 





ravaee 
iray, Madeti 
Bray, Walter 


ick, Mra. Jefferaon, 218, 
Brick’ Lane Branch of the United Grand 
‘Junction Ebeneser Temperance As- 


riggs 261. 


Briggs, Alexander, 12, 
‘Briggs, Salle, 12. 


Briain Eile. See Biltatn, Benjamin, 


broblty, Mies, 623, 
Brogiey Mert 


Mrs, 45T. 
Buitie, Robina, 467. 
Busts, The, 80. 
Dutfum, Oscar, 218, 
Bulder, Colonel, 21. 
Bulder, Mra, Colonel, #1, 
Wuldor, Miss, 21 


Buty, 3 
Bull, Tho, 2 
Woll's-oyo, th, 
Ballflach, 610. 

Bulph, Sr.,138, 
Bumble, Mr., 01, 
Bumple, Michael, 4. 
Bumpas, Bergoant, 2. 


















ristopber, 379, 
“Catechism, Overhaul your/? 286, 
“Cautious are, Tbe, Eon 
Cavalletto, John Raptiat, 879, 
Cortainpersonto, Prince, $06, 
Chadband, Mrv.’' See Rachael, Mrs., 33 
Chadband, Rev. Mr.. 326. 

Chancery Prisoner, Tho, 22, 

Charitable Grindor, 280, 


‘Charles, 156. 
Charl 


so. 
‘See Wilfer, Reginald, 


480, 
‘Chesney Wold, 356, 
Chester, Mi 






Chick, John, 204. 
‘Ohiek, Mrs. Loutas, 264, 
Chickon, The Gamo, 264. 





mew, 387. 

Childers. BE. W. B., 953, 
wife, a 

‘Ouro’ Bron, Ta, 628, 

Ip, Mr... 204. 

Curis, Tr, 240, 


Shepherdess, The. 
‘park Stes, 818, ali 






John, 380. 
neral Cyrus, 210. 





560 


Gholtop, Major Hannibal, 219. 
nh 
Dhowiley- Ber, | les, 254. 
Chowerr, Colonel, 127. 
Christian, Flotoher, 635. 
Christian, Thursday October, 625. 
Christiana, 627. 
EMAAR CAROL, 209, 
WT MAS DEXNIEM, A, B, 
Christopher, 450. 
‘Ch iekstor. Mr.. 165. 
‘Chuttey. Mr., 230. 
Chumblodon Square, 634. 
Chazzlewit, Anthony, 220, 
Chuzzlewit, George, 220, 
‘Chuzslow!t, Jonas, 23. 
‘Chuzzlewit, Martin, eenlor, 
‘Chazzlewit, Martin, the younger, 221. 


Cicero, 223. 
Clrounilocution Ofiee, 3TT. 
Clare, Ada, 837, 
‘Clurke, Mr, 264. 
‘Clarkson, 630, 
Clarrtker, 426, 
Olaypolo, Noah, 98, 
Guaypole tre. Noah. See Charlotte, 08, 
Cleaver, Eat 
Gleavor, Mr, 180. 
‘Clennam, Arthur, 381. 
Sleunam, Mra, Ba. 
Cleopaira. See Skewton, Mrs., 264. 
Glergyman, Tho, 22, 15. 
Cleverly, Suenntiah, 430, 
Clorerly, William, 400, 
Glick, Mr. 832, 
Chiokott, 34, 
Clolstorham, 616, 
Elupber, Lady, 2. 
‘Clubber, Sir Thomas, $2. 
Gavders, The Mies, 22 
Sluppins, Betsey, 
Oly, Roger, 406. 
Convinaes.” See Neckett, Mr., $87. 
Cobb, Tom, 196, 
Cobbey, 13%. 
Cobbs, 374. 


Gookor, Mr. Indignation, 510, 

Goager, Misa” 

‘Godin, Tom,’ 166. 

eller, Mrs,, 498. 

Sampact Kochantress, The, 680, 

Compeyson, 428 

© Consequence, It %s of no." 213. 

‘Conxiderations on the Polley of Remov- 
‘ing the Duty on Boeswax, 10, 

Convened Chiet Composite Committee 
‘of Central and Distrlot Philanthro- 
plata, 620, 

‘Conway, ‘General, 196, 

Cooper, Augustus, 7. 

Copperfield, Mrs. Clara, 994. 

Copperfield, David, 294" 

Copperfioid; Dora,’ See Spenlow, Dore, 














Coppernose, Mr, 110. 

Sorney, Mrs, Be 

Sorpes Comnion, 836, 

Countess, The. "See Grisswood, Elles, 


631. 
Cracklt, Toby, 9. 











Ebe Dickens Mictfonacy. 


Grune Chora 3, 
Mr.» 250, 
Gratis Belicdn 10, 
Gatch; Marta, 20, 
a 
Cratebit, Mrs, 210, 
Gratohit, Peter, 210, 
Gratenit, Tim, 210. 
‘Mins, 238, 


Oreakle, Mr, 297. 
Mee. 


Crofts, Lot 
Oreo! 2 
ror Tih Tie. 
rorter, Tie 6 
Ofumenler, Master, 127. 
Crummles, Mtrs., 12. 
Cruromies, Ninetts, 138, 
Crummies, Peroy, 137. 
Crummies, Vincent, 127, 
Crampton, Am to. 
Grune etd m8, 
©, Jorn 

Seah a anya 

ncher. Young Jerry, 40fe 
Grup, Mrs, 200. 
Crushton, Hon, Mr, 2% 
Curdlo, Mre., 128, 
Curdlo, Mi 
Cate, A100 


a oy 18, 
Cotler, New, 128. 
Cuttlo, Captain Edward, 264, 


De-tson, Mrs 10. 

Dadson, Mrs, 10. 

Daisy, Solomon, 198. 

DANCING ACADEMY, THR, Te 

Dando, 4 

Danton, Mr., 16, 

Darby, 337. 

Darnay. Charles, See 8t, Evrémoade, 
harlow, 412. 














Nd, 198, 
David CorrEnrretn, 290, 
Dawes, 282. 
Dawkitn 
Dawe, Mary, 266. 
Dawson, Mr, 2. 
Deaf Gentleman, They 1, 





Geueval Enver. 






Dingwall, Master Froderick, 10, 
Hoxgwall, Mrs, Brook, 20, 


Dismal Jemmy. See Hutley, Jem, 22, 

Ditsbwaterstcatt8e nae 

Diver, Colonel, 223. 

Dobbie, Falla,’6. 

Dobble, Mr., 6. 

Dobbie, Mr. Junior, 6. 

Dobble, Mev, 6 

Dobbs, Julla, 635. 

Docrow Makiaonp, 492. 

Dootor, ‘Tho, See Lowberne, Mr., 102. 

Docron Commons, 4 

Dodger, ‘The Ariful. See Dawkins, 
fohis, 05. 

Dodson nnd Fogg, 22. 

Do'em, fA, 








Donny, diss, 238, 
Dora. ' See Sponiow, Dera, 2, 
ion, Sergeant, U0, 
Dorrit, Amy, 982. 
Dorrit, Edward, 352, 


at 
Doreit, Willtam, $89, 
oso.’ Such a ove old wosnaa |” 38, 





Dot. See rb » Mary, 2. 
a en 
Dounce, Joho, 6, 


~S 





iff. | See Bi 
Dull, Mr 319, 
Duliborough, 423. 


Dumbledon, r 
Domkina, Mr, 24. 
Dummy, Mr., 19, 


0. 
Katanewill Bioes, 60. 
Eatanswill Butts, 0, 
“ Satan Thdopendent, The?" Cy 
ent ae aeee ee 
Eden, 223, 240, 
Eden’ Land Corporation, 219, 
Edkins, Mr., 13, 
Edmunds, 6st. 
Edmunds, John, 
Eamunds, Mr. 24. 
Mamunds, Mrs, 26. 
cana 
mn, PREY 

Kdward, 1 
Edwards, Miss, 166. 
Edwin, 374, 
Epwix Dnoop, 612. 
Effort, Making 0, 204. 
ELecrion rou BEADLE, 2 
Eile, Mr., 
Ellis, Mrs, Ann, 9), 

ie, 








monde, Charles, 
Exell, 408. 


Fs Aunt, Mr. See Mr. Fs A 
Faseifater Stonsleur ihe, aa. 


eo 
Fanny, 033. 





Finching. Flora, 
“Fine. she "AL, of « woman," 428, 
aoe ah. 





Finm, Hon. Sparkios, 687. 
Fiamwell, Mr, a a 
Fiary, Hallow down by the, 490. 
aro, Hallow down, 
Fiashor, Wilking, 24. 
Fledgeby, Fascination, 406, 
Fleetwood, Master, 13. 
Fleetwood, Mre., 13. 
Fleetwood, Mr, 18. 
Fleming, Agnes, 100. 
Floulng, Rose. ’ See Mayle, Rose, 100. 
Facer, A., 630. 
Piiorwinch, Aifery, 385. 
Filntwineh; Rpbriden, 388. 
Eulotwineh, Jeretiaby 
Flipiield, Misa, 42, 
Wiipieldy Mr. 421." 
Fispfield, Mrs,, 421, 
Flipseld: ‘Tom, eal. 
Flite, Mas 333. 
Fopping, 406, 
Flopsoms 
Flume 110. 
mune, 
vac'Dodaom and Fogg, 24. 
Fotal ir Mir its. 
Foal ia a 
Four Sierens, Tax, 
Prank, Little, 627, 
Fred, 210. 
Frost, Mina, 64. 
V's Aunt. See Mr. 








Ya Aunt, 300, 











She Mickens Mictlonarg. 


= is, 108 ee ‘nate ae 


See a Sie 6. 
‘See Rouncewell, George, 
Goorge, Mra., 108. 


GuonGh BULVERMAN'S EXPLANATION, 


George the Fourth, 382, 
George, Unele, 6. ° 


rian, 
ONT OF AN, Le 
She Ss Fe 
of a8 
Ghost of Christmas Yet m0, 
Gta at Chronicen, 100 
ifted, aa Mooney, Mr., 42, 








Giubb, olarsra, 
Gobler, Mra @ 


Sofien Grom Tan, #8, oii 
jen Duatinan, ‘The, See Baffin, Meo 
demas, 401, 

Good Iepadiican Brutus of Antiquity | 






Gradgrind, Malthus, 986, 
Gradgrind) Mr. Phomas 9 


General Enver 


eine ef gi Nelly, See Tite 


vit. 
dren ie Little Noll, 268, 
Grandmarina, Balry, OS 


oi 


‘National Saalthera Testimonial, 


‘at. 
Great White Tore, 2. 
Gront Winglebury, 14, 
Garat Wisoruntay Does, Tax, 18, 





Grob, Mr, 
Grupbio, We 209, 


re, 129, 
Grusoye ‘Sol, 100, 
‘Gruff abd Ultima, 407. 
Gruff and Tsokloton, 255, 
Grummer, Di 
Grummidj 

















fevibact ie 
ron, Captay 89D 
rai oe oes 





ieep. Urlab, 300, 
Haire, ra Capa 18. 





Hicks Septimt, 8, 
Tiigder ity. 
Hilton, Mr, ms 
Hoghton Towers, 008. 
Hollow, The, down by the are, 6, 
iow, The, down 
Hout Tene, Ta ‘Tam, 3%, 
lominy. 
Honeysiuner Tako, 8, 
Hopling, Captaln, 301, 
Hopkine, Sale, 23. 











-HORATIO SPARKON, 21 


Hourresi. Barres, Tie 
read. Pa’ 
Howir, leew: Molchiaudechy 2, 
Hubble, Mr,, 482. 








564 
lo, Mew: 
Engh ton 
it Brothers, 419. 





They, 25. 
L's mea Life Assurance Company, 
Infant Bonds of Joy, 347. 
Infant Phenomenou,'The. See Crumm- 
aco 
foxpector, B 
L ans 
In Sixx Hire Ware ? 638, 
Ital Sophia, 863 
sell, 383. 
Tying, J’'mima, 6, 
Izzard, Mr., 24. 
Jack, 6, 226, 433. 





Teokinnss Majo Yemany, 488, 40 
aokinan, Major Jemimy, 489, 487, 
Snokwon, drs 39, 405. 

Jacobs, Bolomon, 18. 

Yacques One, 400, 

neques Two, 40%, 

Facques Three, 400, 

‘Taeques Four, 409, 

‘Tacqaes Five, 400. 

Joggers, 
James 
Tames, Master, 154. 
Fano, 6, 12, 226, 454. 
same Aunt, 6, 









ridge and Jarndyoe, BAL. 

rndyce, John, ‘a0. 

Jasper, John, 621. 

dedilot, Doctor Anthony, 256, 

Joddler, Graco, 257. 

Yeddler, Marion, 257. 

Tollyby; Caroline, 342, 

Tollyby; Mes 943, 

Sellyby, sire., 342. 

Tellyby, Poopy, 848, 

Sern, 76. 

‘Sumy, 'Dlemal, See Etuuey, Jem, 29 
sumy, Diamant. Tem, 29. 

Jenks if ), Miss, 15. 

Yonkinson, 338. 

Sonnings, Miss, S21. 

Mi 














Ehe Dickens Dictlonzey. 





Tob, Mr, 1k, 
Johnny, 471. 
Jol a7. 


Jolly, 24) 
Sally 'Bargemen, The, 4 
‘Jolly Boatmen, The, 40, 
Joly Sanboye, Th, 


Taploy, The, Ste 
Tolvered, Bie Wiliam, 118, 
Jonathan, 471. 


Minnin, 302, 
Sorking, Mr, S02. 
Joskin, 402. 

Jowl, Joe, 172. 
oy, Thomas, i 
Jupo, Cootlin, 347. 
Supe, Bignor, a6. 
Kags, 102, 
poo Grpuatn, 208, 
ok, In 
Kenge, Converaation, $85, 
Keonwiga, Mra., 193, 
Keowige, Mr., 122, 
Kenwigs, Morleenn, 130, 
Ketch, Professor John, 129, 
Kettle, Lafayette, 225. 
Kibble, Jacob, 71. 
Kidderminstor, Master, 367. 
Kinch, Horace, 422. 
Kindbeart, Mr., 422. 
Kittorbell, Charter, 
Kunterbell, Prederiek Chaales Wits, 


9 














22. 
Knag, Miss, 13), 
Kang’ Mortimer, 280, 
Kolldwethovt, Baron yon, 190, 
‘o¥ldwethout, Baroneed WOO, EEE. 

Krook, Mr., 345, 
Kutankumagen, Doctor, 39, 
Kwakloy, Mr. 139, 
La Creovy, Miss, 13%. 
Ladies’ Bible and 

dutlon Boclety, 3 





General Enver. 





Mi 
Lawriaguran’s Brony, Tak, 1. 


Kandiets, folonn, 23. 
Landon, Wale Savage, 884, 
wnddor, Walte 
Tae, dita, 131. 
Eangiiay Mr. 300, 
Langley, Mr, 420, 
Tarkine, Jom, 4 
Larkine. Mies, 302, 
kine, Mr., 202. 
“Larks, what!” 436, 
Lar Gan-Daxven, Te, AND THe 
Finer OsNenus-CAD, 4, 
‘Last Moments of the Learned Pie, 119. 
Lastofthe Patriarchs. See Caaby, Ot 
topher, we. 
in 









Latio-Crammar Master. The, 006. 
Ta ir Peter, 200. 
Learned Pig, Last Moments of the, 119, 


Leath, Angoin, 314, 
‘Leaver, Mr.y 120, 
Teaver, Ai 1 





Legion, 

Lomon, Mra, 

Lenville, Mrs, BL. 

Lenville, Thoras, 181, 

Lowen, G. H,, 343, 

Lewsome, Mr. 4 225, 

Lightermin’s Arms, The, 639. 

Lightwood, We ah. 

Lu nee Vita, 333. 

Tillan, See orn, Lillan, 290, 

Eilierton, Mies, 15. 

Lillyviek, Mes. See Potowkor, Henri- 
‘otta, 133. 

Lillyvick, Mr., 181. 

Limbury, Mre. 

Limbary, Peter, 638. 

Limbkins, 102. 

Hioktowaicr, Stet 136, 
nventer, Airs. Bea La Croery, 


Mi 
Linkinwaior, Tim, 182 
Lirriper, Doctor Joshua, 457. 
Lirriper, Jemma, 44, 458. 
Lirriper, Jemmy Jackman, 454, 458, 
Lilt, Tena, 172. 
Lattimer, 3b. 
Little Bethol, 172, 
Little Britain. See Britatn, Benjamin, 


256. 

Lirrie Drover, A. mt ax Hoon, 510, 

Lerrix Donnrr, 376, 

‘Liwle Nell. See'Tront. Little Nett, 183. 

Cittle Nelle Grandfather, See Grand- 
father, Little Noll¥a, 166, 

[ude Walling Breet. 634. 

















—_—_—ar 





Lobbs, bie 31. 
Ya Str, 





Long Bare on, and ee Mr, 1% 
on zi 
Tosa Voraae, ‘Tr, 0a.” 


Lost Thc, 4, 
Lang tn mind 


eur, 10, 


Linens, Solomon, 82, 
Loffey, Mr., 32. 
Lmbey, Doetor, 158 
Lupln, Ara., 295. 
Irina’ Awaice, 627. 


MiChoakumehild, eB, 
Mackin, Mra, 

Macklin, Mrs 
Macmanos, 
Macstinger, Avexnnder, 278, 
Mactitinger, Charles, 278, 
MaotStinger, Jullaon, 373, 
Macstnger, Mrg. 273, 
‘Maddox, Jolin, 687. 

Madgors, ‘Winitred, 469, 
Magy, Mr. 3k. 


Ingay 
‘Magnus, Peter, 22. 
fngog, 138, 
Mogwitoh, Abet, 433. 
MAKING A Nigur of rr, , 
Malderton, Prodorick, 12. 
Malderton, Martanne, 12. 
Maldorton, Mr,, 12. 
Malderton, Mt 1% 
tov, Tardaa, 12. 
Malderton 1 ‘boas, 12, 
Maldon, Jaok, 02, 
Mallard, Mr.,'3T. 
Mallet, Mr, 120. 
Man from Shropshire, 338. 
Manotte, Dootor Alexander, 4, 
Manette: Luete, 410. 
8.5 102, 


Manning, Mrs. 341. 
Manor Farm, 40. 

Mansel, Miss. 625. 
Mantaliol, Alfred, 12, 
Maotalinl, Madame, 152, 
Maplesone, Jalla, 9. 
Maplesone: Matilda, 9, 
Maplesone, Mra. 8. 
Marohloness, Tho, 172, 6&8. 
Margaret, Aunt. 6. 

* Margin, Leaving a. 438, 
Marigold, Doctor. 402, 
Marigold, Mre , 483 
Marigold, Lite Sophy 
Marigold, Wilinm, 
Markham, 003, 




















666 The Wickens 


jarkicham, Mra., 208, 
farks, Will, 108, 
Marley, Ghost of Jacob, 211, 
Maroon, Captaiti, 388. 


Marquis of Oranby, 7, 

Marshall, Mary, 

Marshalsea, Father of the, See Dorrit, 
‘William, 333. 

Martha, 15, 102, 275. 

Martha, Aunt, 207, 

Martin, 








Martin, Mr., 37. 

MAnris CruzzLewrr, 216, 
Martineau, Misa, 343. 
Marton, Mr. 17 

Margood, Aes. See Brown, Alles, 


Mary, 4 3. 
Mary’ Ann, Tt. 
Mary 









Matinters, The two Miaa, 37. 
Mavwls, Mastor, 634. 





Maylto, Howe, 102. 
Maypoie on, 294. 
Meagles, Minnie, 099, 
Mengles, Mr., 358. 
Mouglea, Mrs, 280. 
Monly Potatods, 203. 
Meck, Augustus George, 627. 
Meek, George, sat. 
Mook, Mrs., 67. 
Saeltn, 276. 
Mell, Gharios, 303. 
Melly Mrs., 203. 
Mollowa, Mr. J. 422. 
Moltham, Mr, 417. 
Melvillosoe, Niles Mf. 346, 
Mender of Roads, The. See Jacques 
Vive, 409. 
Meroury, 348, 
Morey, 422, 
Merle, ME, 380. 
Mondle, Mes, $89. 
Meriton, Honry, #25, 
Merrylegs, 368. 
Morey winkle, Mr. and Mrs, 165, 
Mesheck, Aaron, 620. 
Mheawber, Master Wilkins, 908, 
Micawber, mma. 30, 
re. Wilkins, 398, 
Micaeber, Mra. Exima, 310, 
Michael, 62% 
MU, Mre., 276. 
Mises, Mite, 200 
Mike, 434. 
Miles, Bob, 82, 
Miles, Owen, 159. 
Miller, Mr., 37. 
Mittors, 434, 
MOll-Pona Plank, Chinks’s Bain, 448, 
Milla, Julia, 311, 899, 






















BDictfonary. 





Mould, Mr., 320, 

Mould; Mee, 236. 
Mould, Ths taro Stan, 290, 
Mouse, 285. 

Mowchor, Mies, $12. 

Max. Tantow, 619, 

Mr, I Aunt, 260, 

Sin. diss aN tes Cousens, 
Mr. The Englistrenan, 490. 

Mr. Woller’s Wateh, 161, 

Mus, Josrrm Powrim, 16, 
Mus, Liwutren’y Legacr, 65%, 
Mus. Limutrnws Loi ‘i 
“ Muddle, f 
Muddlotirainn, Str, 120, 
Mudfog, 115, 69, 
Muprod Assocrariow, 118, 
Mudfog Hall, 838, 

Madge, Jonan, 3T. 

Muth Professor, 120. 

Murby Junction, 48. 
Muggleton, 87. 

Mull, Professor, 121, 

Motling, dol, 472 

Mullit, Professor, 226, 
Marderor, Captain, 422, 
Murdstone, edward, S12 
Murdotone, Jane, 213, 
Mutanhed. Lord, 87. 

Matuel, Monwlenr, 481, 

Muzzle, Mr, 88. 

AMyerzivy oF EowLy Dacop, 6 


Redgott, Mr. 238, 

+ Mr, 38 

mojesston, 610, 

Nan, 423, 

Nancy, 103, 

Nandy, John Baward, 990, 


















General Enver. 


Beit Lith, 195, 
Heeshawts, Doctor, 131. 


Nettingall, The in 


(owen 
few “Thetmopyla.t 

‘ew UNcoMMEncraL BAMries, 510, 
ew YEAR, THR, 6. 

‘ow York Rowdy Journal, The,” 217, 


choi 
ioe NICKLERY, 124, 











Nookemorf, 
, Mr. 38. 
52. 








rie; Mri ah, 
Norris, Tho two Misses, 227, 
Norton, Squire, 637 





Norwood, 

+ Note of found, make a.” 266, 
Rubber, Ghristopher, or Kit, 172. 
Nubbles, Jacob, 17: 


Nubbles, Mra., 172. 
‘Nunw’ House, 624, 
Napkins, George, 8, 
Nupkins, Henriotta, 42, 
upkine, rw 42. 
weg-Urator Inn, 286, 


Oak Lodge, 12. 
OrBloary, Broderick, 


a 

‘Oldenstie, 118, 
‘Oun Ountoarre eon 36 164. 

‘Old Hell Shaft, 263. 

Vid Mint, The, 652. 

Ola Bolder, The, See Markicham, Mr, 


‘OUIvER ‘Twoer, 90, 
Qroer. Minote, $13. 
mer, Mr, B13, 
O¥ AX AQIATEOR Bran, SIL. 
‘Ox Dory wirn Lyarecron. 
jowenerer, Mra, 43, 
James, 0), 
ow 














Para, ks, Mr, 200. 
lone, 423. 


, Mian, 275. 
iam or Esra ‘Tam, 640, 
Poe ae poalt 4 ‘Prone, and 





PAWGAMENTART 


Ab 
Panton Ouaton, Tax, 


3 Mr., $18. , 

Tho, See Casby, Chris 

Pavan Th Lat th, See Cushy, 
‘Christopher, 84. 

Pau i ies ‘See Dombey, Little Paul, 


Pavillonstone, 829, 
Pawkins, Major, ‘or, 
Perkin Mie oe 
AventoRt Biko 
1, Doctor, 42. 
Pen, or Peacont, 638. 
Beatock, The, 20, 
Pook, ‘201, 
Pecksulf, Charity, 229, 
Peckaniff, Morey, 230, 
Pookaniff, Soth, 227, 
Poweher, Emma, 472. 
Poel, Sit Robert, 2, 
Peepy. Hon. Miss, 
Peerybingle; Fobt 2e8 
Pocrybinkle, Magy, 258, 
Pegasus arma 7. 
Poerous, Clara, $18, 


Peeps Ham 














Sde Dickens 


Mer. 278, 
ira, 270, 
Porkor. Mr, #2. 
Yorking, Mrs, S47, 
Perkinsop, Mary Anno, 454. 
Peruvian Allncs, 270, 
easel, 





1 
Potowker, Henrietta, 138, 
Phenomenon, The Infant, 198, 
Phib, 138, 

Phibbs, Mr, 68. 

Phil, 684. 





Pickleson, 498, 

Picnwick Parens, 18. 
Piokwick. Samuol, 48, 199, HR. 
Vidger. Mr., 318. 

Pleroe, Capialn, 625, 
Plorco, Mary. 625. 

Pitt, Mis, 409, 

Pig ‘and Tinder-Box, 118, 
Pigeon, Thomas, 634. 

Pilking, Mr,, 270. 

Pinch, Rath, 200, 

Pinch, Tom. 230. 

Lip. See Firrtp, Philip, 484. 
Pip, Mr. 
Tipuht Mn, 278, 
Piper, 3 
Piper, Profonsor, 231. 
Pipkin, Mr. 131. 

Pipkin, Nathaniel, #8. 
Pireip, Philip, 

Pitt, Jane, 

Pinshwater Welr Mill, 477. 
Ploruish, Mr. 802, 
Plornish, Mrs, 302, 
Piuck, Mr., 138. 

Plommor, Berche, 25%, 
Plummer, Caleb, 253. 
Plommor, Edward, St. 
Pockets Allee 4387 
Vooket Belinda, 439, 
Pooket, Fanny, 420. 




















Pocket, Herbert, 426, 
Pocket, Jano, 
Tooker, Joe, 





Pocket, Matthew, 439, 
Pocket, Baral. 440, 

Pocket: Hroaches, 40, 
Bolder, Mr, 08, 











if 
Yodsnap, Georgians, 47% 
Podanap John, 473, 











ppery, 474. 





Dictfonarp. 


Hon. Elijah, 252. 
910, OIL, 





Foon, Stan's Thur or A Para A 
Poon fixcarrow’s Srowr, bt, 


46. 
D1. 


Poplar Walk, 2 
Fortable 








Prig, Botwoy, 
Paincr Bett 638. 
Princess's Pince, 200. 
Priseilia, 347, 

‘Prison Sheep. 
Putnonen's Van, baey 
Pnivare Tmearans 4, 
Prodgit, Mrs., 627. 
Prose, Mr., 121, 

Proas, Miss, #11, 

Pross, 


Prone, Sota, aE 





ra rte. 286. 

LIC Live OF Ma. TOLROMREE. BQ 
Pubsey 8 Go..478, 
Pogatylos, Mr. 13 
Pombleohook. Uncle, 440. 
Pumpkinskull, Prot 
Pupker, Slr Matthew, 
Parblind, Mr, 








Gierspeck, Professor, 11, 
oerep eo 
lckenr, 433. J 
jallp, Betsey, 178, 
full, Dantoly 175; 
inch, Mra, 423. 
yuinton, Mr., 317, 

Rachael, 368. 

Rachnel, Mire. 348, 

Raddle, Mr, 

Headdies 3 

Hesabird. Migs Ss 

iryganoe, 

Rampage, On they” 639, 

Rat" Gun, fd 

tee ing. rant, 201, 

Beton Ona 
fedgoren, Llenteant 

Hadlaw, Mr, 258 

Ttefractory, Chef, 423, 

Refractory, Number 


Rermixren Paces, 6b. 
Meynolds, Miss, 62. 

















General ¥nverg. 


Richard See Toodle, Polly, 276, 

Riderbood, Pleasant, 470. 

Riderhood, Roger, or Rogue, 4. 

Rigaud, 302, 

Wnaido Gt Velanon: See Piokloson, 403, 
mn, ‘THR. 4. 

mares Grinder, Ste Toodle, Robin, 

Robert, Dnele, 6. 

Ro 





Mra. John. See Wilfer, 





‘Rose, 638, 

Posabud. See Bud, Rona, 615, 
to ‘Claphari Kise, 15, 

Rosy, Tho, 184. 

Rouncewell, Geor ue 

Rounsewell, Mr., 348, 

Rouncewell, Mrs, 348. 

‘Rouncewoll, Wit, $48. 

“Rowdy Journal, The,” 217, 228, 

4 Royal Skewor, Tho," 123, 

Rudge, Baroaby, 301. 

Radge, Mr., 

Yosdye, Mrs, 202, 

Togg, Anastasia, 393, 

Ruy, Me, 323. 

Rummun, Professor, 122 

Raatlc Lodge, 638. 


Baggore, Mrv., 42. 
mondo, Charles, 412. 











Bt. James's Arms, 636, 
ft Julian, Str. ‘Horatio. See Larkins, 
for, 4, 

Balcy, P., Family, 423, 

Balem it3uso, 207 
Bally, 4. 
Kally, O14, 108. 
Balwannors, Tho, 204, 
gant On. & p= 
jampaon. eo: - 
Banpeon, Mr, U8. 
anna 








Baunders, Mr., 164, 














iy OO. 
Bhepherdson, Mr., 531. 
ort. See llarrié, Mr, 





ng the, 383, 
2 isee Gris. 








Sxerciees oy Youn Cours, 14 
Bkeitlog, Barnet, Junior, 377. 
Skettles, Lads 

Skettles, Sir Barnet, 276, 
Bkewton, Hon. Mray 377. 
Skiing, Mins, 442, 
Bkinpin, Mr., 69. 
Bkimpole, Arothusea, 348, 
Skimpolo, Harold, 348, 
Skimpole, Kitsy, 350, 
Bkimpole, Laura, 300, 
Sinchrldge, 8 
Blamjam Coffee House, ite 
Slammer, ‘Dootor, o.” 
Slougbtor, Licutenant, 11. 
Bleary, Josephine, 368, 
Bleary, Mr., 33, 
Sliderekew, Peg, 133. 
Blinkton, CT Ne 

















Siithera, Mr.. 5 
Bliverstone, 1s. 
Sliverstono, Mrs, lid. 
Sloppy, 47. 
Blowboy, Tilly, 255. 
Bindery Thoin, 
a orn, 
Blatter & 
‘Slug, Mr., 123. 
Slam, Mr., 17%, 
Slamkey, Hon, Samuel, TS. 
Sark, Mr.,15. 
Blyme, Chevy, 237, 





BMALL Stan, A. ix Tie Kee 0 
Bmallweed, Bartholomew, 33, 
Smallweed, Grandfather, 350. 
Bmallweed, Grandmother, 330, 











570 Ebe Hickens Mictlonacy. 






x, Hophroalan ‘See Marcbtonees, 
spider, the See Drummie, Bentley, 
Lata | pee ee 





Mr., "15. 
Sinorltork, Count, 18, 
Smouch, Mr., 75. 
Sau Mir., 3. 





Bnawley, Mra, 130. 
Bnawley, Mr.. 180, 
Baevelliccl, Mixa, 199, 
Boowoltioc!, Mr., 139. 
Boevellice!, Mrs., 130, 
Boewken, Mr, 130. 
Balt, Mr., 499, 


Bol, Mre,, 49, ee 

Snigeworth, Lord, 478. Bteerforth, Mrs. 

Snigns, Mr., 630, Buldfun's Acro, £3, 

Bnipe, Hon,” Witmot, 76. Btigginy, Mov, Mr. 76, 

‘Snitchey, Jonathan, 257. Bltstalking, Lord Lanonster, 304. 

Soitohey, Mrs., 257. Stokes, Mr. Martin, 638, 

Bulvey, Sir Hookham, 122, Btone Lodge, 286. 

Soobb, Hon, Mr. 19) Greance Givrticwan, Tee, 0. 
inodgrass, Augustus, 76, strange Gentleman, Ee 

Bnore, Professor, 122. Btrandenheim, 426. 





Snubbin. Berjeant. 16. 
Soudlotoile, Mr, 0. J., 12 
Bouphenuph, Lady, 74, 

Bocinl Linen Box Comnlitee, $47. 














Sak. 
Soemup, Doctor, 122, ‘Struggles, Mr., 76, 
Sol's Arm, Tho, 3. Btryver, Mr., 12. 
Somnnopr’s LUGGAGE, 449. Stuart, Lord’ Dudley Coutts, am. 
Some Uncoucecrep Prears, 835. Btobbs, Mre., 13, 
“Bon and Heir, The,” 202. Byles, Mr., 
Bopha, 228, 442, Summoersoi, Esther, 251, 
Sophy, 455, 404, Superannuaied Widows, 347. 
Bouthoote, Mre., 626, Soturb, 235. 
Bouthcote, Mr., 626. | ene ee 
Sowerberry, Mra, 113, Sweency, Mra, 
Sey Mr., 113, Sweet William, 179. 
Sowndes, Mr., 217. Swidger, George, 233, 
Bowater, 122. BSwidgor, Milly, 288. 
Sparkind, Horatio, 12. Swidger, Philip, 238, 
Sparkler, Edmund, 99, Swidgor, William, 258. 
Sparkler, Mrs, Edaund, See Dorrit, | Swillentiansen, Baron yon, 147. 
Fautiy, 382. Swilleaausen, Baronoas ton, 16%, 


Swille, Little, der, 





Hi 
servations oa the Theory of Tittle- 
bata, 43. 

epoulow, Ciarinss, 317, 








Getteral Enver. 








P 
‘Taunton, Emily, 13. 
‘Twonton, Mr bid 
‘Taunton, Bophita, 13, 
‘Taunton, Vale of, 358, 
‘Tellaon and omar: a. 
‘Temeraire, The, 510, 
‘Testator, Mr., 424. 
‘Totterby, Adolphus, 258, 
‘Tottorby, ‘Dolpbur, 8, 
‘Tetterdy, Johnay, 239. 





‘Poucrbs, Baily: Hy 
‘Pocophlios Corporal 1 

‘aphite, i 
‘Teingammy, Adee TiS. 
"Thomas, 1 


362, 

‘hom peon, Tally-bo, 637 

‘Thorn of Anxiety, Che, 1 

‘Tuovewrs Apour Prot 

‘Three Cripples, The 91, 116, 

Fane tp Regt Ne By 
reo Jolly Bargomen, The, See Jo 
‘aryernen, The, “ + 

‘Tibbs, Mr, 0. 

‘Tibbs, Mrs., 0. 

Ticket, Mrv., 34, 

‘Tickle, Mr. 122 

‘Tickler, 210, 430, 

‘Ne, Going out with the,” 298. 

‘Diddypot, Mr., OH, 

‘Tiffy, Mr., 83%, 

‘Tige, Montague, 42, 

‘Timbered, Mr.. 122. 













6, 
ny Tim. See Cratehit, Tim, 216. 


Tinkler, 304 
William, 606, 

Lip. See Dorrit, Rdward, 382, 
Tipkisson, 633. 
Tipp, a22. 
Tippin, Master. 12, 
‘Tippin, Miss, Ti. 
Dippin, Mr. i; 

pp 
vs 














Podeeogs totes, ut. 


1. Joe, 160. 
rae 
‘600. 


‘Tox, Lucretia, 279," 

Tozer, 270, i 

eRe cas 

‘Traddies, Thomas, 

Travellers” Pwo 016, 
‘ravel " Twor a 

‘Trot, Progeny 

‘Trent, Little Nell, 185. 


‘Tresham, 407. 
“Tri know their,” 465, 
‘Trimmers, Mr., 145, 

‘Trinklo, Mr. 582. 

‘Trott, Mr. Alexander, 14, 
‘Trout, Walker, 635, 

‘Trotter, Job, Th. 

‘Trotters. See Harris, Me... 190. 
‘Protwood, Mise Betacy, 33, 
‘Trotwood, Husband of Mian Betsey, 227 
‘Trotty, See Vook, Toby, 260, 








‘Trundle, Mr., 77. 
‘Tucket’s Terrace, 684, 
‘uckle, 77. 





‘Tulrumble, Nicholas, 639. 

‘Talrumble, Nicholas, junlor, 640, 
‘Pangny, 921. 

‘Tuprman, Traoy, TT. 

‘Tupple, Mr.. 6. 

Turn ap, Wilting for something to,* 


‘Turveydrop, Mr., 362 











$72 Che Dickens Mictlonacg. 





‘Two Guost Stonins, 0, 

‘Tyrolean loweract, The, 388. 

a +? RO. 

jabaqology, as 

Used You.” See Baldersione, Thomas, 

DwcosorencrAL TRAVELLER. 419. 

Ualtod Aggregate Tribunal, 983, 

Volued ihul-Dogs, 202 

United Grand Junction Ebeneser Tom- 

rance Association, 27. 

United Grand Junction Lirstper and 

Jackman Groat Norfolk Parlor Line, 


468. 

United Metropolitan Taproved Hot Mut. 
Ba and Crumpet ing aud Pune- 
tual Dulivery Companys 123. 
Upwited, flobard, Te 


Valo of Taunton, The, 33% 
Valiant Soldier, The, 186. 
Varden, Dolly, 203. 
ee ‘Gabriel, 














Veok, Toby, 250, 

Volasto, Rinaldo di, See Mokleson, 493. 
Voneering, Anastasia, 450, 

Voncering, Hamilton, 410, 
Vengeance, ‘The, 413. 
Ventriloquist, Moustour the, 424. 
Venus, Mr., 480. 

Verbonity, 833. 
arksopht, Lord Frederick, 148, 
Vholon Mr. 353, 

Victualler, Mr. Licensed, 424, 
Yierace Coqverres, Tune, 627. 
“Volatile,” $32, 

Vutiin, 190, 


‘Wacklos, Jano, 190, 
Wacklos, Melinen, 190, 
Waoklos, Mra,, 101. 
Waokles, Sophy, 191, 
Wackley, Mr., 424. 
Wade, Mins, 204. 
‘Waghorn, Mr,, 3 
ainewright, Thomas Griffiths, 418. 
‘Waldengarver, Mr. See Wopale, Mr., 


4 
Walley, Mir. 494 
Walker, Mi 
Walker, Mr. 
Walker, Mra, 2. 































» Santor, ST, 

Mr, Henry, $76. 

‘ward M'Nevillo, See Batter, 
10. 





Wanule, Mr. 











Fhe Marl 
Watch, Mr, Wet 
‘Waterbrooit, Mr, 





Wharton, Granviley 
‘Wheel, Putting the 
Wheezy, Profisso 
“Wher found, make a note ef,” 286, 
Whit, ates, aa, 









White, 900, ot, 
‘White Hart Inn, 87, 





Widger, Bobtail, 168, 
Widger, Lavinia, 105, 
‘Wield. Ay. Enapector, 631. 
Wish; 


 Mr., 123, 634. 
Wild ilnteman of the North Amertoas 


Prairlon, 1403, 
Wilderness Walk, 
‘Wilfer, Bolln, 485. 











ey 
Wilter, Mrs, Reginald, 438, 
Writtngwaters S08.” 
Wilkins, $6. 
Wilkins, Dick, 218. 
Wilkins, Samuel, 6. 
Willet, Joe, 204. 
Willet, John, 
‘William, 3, 148, 325, 
William! See Potking, Williaa, 400, 








General Enver. 873 


Wuinam, Sweet, See Sweet Willam, ) Wietterly, Henry, 10, 





101. ‘Wititterly. Julia, 148, 
‘Williams, 588, Wobbler, Mr., 304. 
‘Williams, Wiillam, 487. Wolf, Mr., 
‘Williamson, Mrs., 14, roman, A fine dure of a,” 438. 
*Willin’. Barkis 1s,” 292, Woodcourt, Allan, 854. 


Woodcourt, Mrs., 354, 
Wooden Midshipman, The, 278, 644, 
Woodensconce, Mr., 128, 

Woolford. Miss, 4. 

Wopsle, Mr., 445. 

Wosky. Doctor, 9. 

Wozenham, Miss, 456, 450. 

‘Wraybarn, Eugene, 487. 

‘Wrayburn, Mra. Eugene, See Hexam 





wi if sras, 14. w dazzle, 469. ‘See Ol * 
king Charley, 827. ren, Jeuny. See Cleaver, Fanny, 
Winkle, Mr., sentor, 86, ‘Wagsby, Mrs. Colonel. 86, 
Winkie, Nathaniel, be, ects aie as 
bottle, Me. 9. ‘Yawler, 323. 
Winks lag, oe ‘York, The five Bisters of, 149, 
With Mr. 191, 
wi |. Mie, 06, Zamicl, 


‘Withers, 79, Hoag, The. (Bee Mivins, Mr. 08. 


